HARVARD 

COLLEGE 

LIBRARY. 


1® 

Ml 

E5i*r/  ^W 

MANUAL 


OF 

Classical  Erotology 

( De  figuris  V eneris) 


FRED.  CHAS.  FORBERG 


S-V-5 

LITERAL  ENGLISH  VERSION. 


MANCHESTER 
One  Hundred-Copies 

PRIVATELY  PRINTED  FOR  VISCOUNT 

JULIAN  SMITHSON  M.  A.,  AND  FRIENDS 
1884 


Digitized  by  Google 


/1harvard\ 

UNIVERSITY 
LIBRARY 
SEP  4 1963 


NOTE 


One  Hundred  Copies  only  of  this  volume  have  been 
printed  (all  on  the  same  paper  and  the  type  distributed) 
for  Viscount  Julian  Smithson  M.  A.,  the  Translator, 
and  his  Friends.  None  of  these  Copies  are  for  Sale. 


Digitized  by  Google 


Foreword 


It  is  perhaps  well  to  state  at  once  that  the 
“Manual  of  Classical  Erotology”  is  intended 
only  for  Students  of  the  Classics,  Lawyers, 
Psychologists  and  Medical  Men.  Those  per- 
sons, we  think,  who  may  peruse  it  as  a means 
of  awakening  voluptuous  sensations  will  be 
severely  disappointed.  Never  did  a work 
more  serious  issue  from  the  press.  Here  we 
have  no  curious  erotic  story  born  of  a diseased 
mind,  but  a cold,  relentless  analysis  of  those 
human  passions  which  it  is  ever  the  object  of 
Science  to  wrestle  with  and  overthrow. 

As  a basis  also  for  the  correct  interpretation 
of  the  drama  of  the  ancient  world,  Forberg’s 


n FOREWORD 

studies  are  most  valuable.  Apart  from  that 
extraordinary  book,  Rosenbaum’s  History  of 
the  Esoteric  Habits,  Beliefs  and  Customs  of 
Antiquity,  we  know  of  no  other  compilation 
which  casts  so  intense  a search-light  upon 
those  Crimes,  Follies  and  Perversions  of  the 
“Sixth  Sense”  which  transformed  the  olden 
glory  of  Greece  and  Rome  into  a by-word  and 
a reproach  amongst  the  nations. 

The  present  English  translation  now  offered 
to  Scholars  is  entirely  new  and  strictly  exact. 
No  liberties  have  been  taken  with  the  text.  It 
was  felt  that  any  attempt  to  add  more  colour, 
or  to  increase  the  effect, — involving  a depart- 
ure from  the  lines  of  stern  simplicity  laid 
down  by  Forberg,  — would  have  detracted 
from  the  scientific  value  and  character  of  the 
work. 

The  late  Isidore  Liseux  issued  in  1882  a 
French  version  with  Latin  text  imprime  a cent 
exemplaires  “for  himself  and  friends”.  This 
work  is  now  very  seldom  to  be  met  with  be- 
cause the  whole  edition  was  privately  sub- 
scribed by  Scholars  and  Bibliophiles  before 
its  appearance.  The  thieving  copyists  went  of 
course  immediately  to  work  and  some  wretch- 


Digitized  by  Google 


FOREWORD  ni 

ed  penny-a-liner,  utterly  ignorant  of  both 
Latin  and  Greek,  produced  an  English  tran- 
script full  of  faults,  based  only  on  the  French 
text. 

There  is  no  need  to  add  that  such  a book  as 
this  is  of  no  value  to  the  Student  as  a work  of 
reference,  for  the  faulty  and  forceless  render- 
ings often  to  be  met  with  in  Liseux’  version 
are  reproduced  with  charming  exactness, 
while  the  absence  of  the  original  text  makes  it 
all  the  more  perilous  to  accept  the  work  as  a 
guide.  Having  said  this  much  concerning  the 
only  two  translations  known  to  us,  we  proceed 
to  give  some  account  of  good  master  Forberg 
and  what  is  known  of  the  inception  and  build- 
ing up  of  his  chef-d’oeuvre. 

The  eminent  Author  of  this  book  never  be- 
came famous.  His  name  is  mentioned  occa- 
sionally in  connexion  with  the  “Hermaphro- 
ditus” of  Antonio  Beccadelli,  known  by  the 
surname  of  Panormitanus,  which  he  edited. 
Brunet,  Charles  Nodier,  and  the  Bibliog- 
raphie  des  Ouvrages  relatifs  aux  Femmes,  a 
l’ Amour  et  au  Mariage,  speak  of  him  in  this 
connexion;  while  a list  of  his  works  appears 
moreover  in  the  Index  Locupletissimus  Libro- 


Digitized  by  Google 


IV 


FOREWORD 


rum  or  Biicher-Lexicon  (Bibliographical 
Lexicon)  of  Christian  Gottlob  Kayser,  Leip- 
zig, 1834.  But  with  the  exception  of  the  All- 
gemeine  Deutsche  Biographie,  the  publica- 
tion of  which  was  commenced  in  1878  by  the 
Historical  Commission  of  the  Munich  Aca- 
demy, and  which  has  devoted  a short  notice  to 
him,  all  Dictionaries  and  Collections  whether 
of  Ancient  or  of  Modern  Biography  are  mute 
with  respect  to  him.  The  Conversations-Lexi- 
con  and  the  vast  Encyclopaedia  of  Ersch  and 
Gruber  do  not  contain  a single  line  about  him, 
while  Michaud,  Didot,  Bachelet  and  Dezo- 
bry,  Bouillet,  Vapereau,  utterly  ignore  his  ex- 
istence. For  all  that  he  well  deserves  a word 
or  two. 

Friedrich  Karl  Forberg  was  born  in  the 
year  1770  at  Meuselwitz,  in  the  Duchy  of 
Saxe-Altenburg,  and  died  in  1848  at  Hild- 
burghausen.  He  was  a philosopher  and  a col- 
laborator with  Fichte,  while  he  devoted  a part 
of  his  attention  to  religious  exegesis : but  above 
all  he  was  a philologian,  and  a humanist, — at 
once  learned  and  inquisitive.  He  followed  first 
the  career  of  a University-teacher;  Privat- 
docent  in  1792,  Assistant  Professor  in  the  Fac- 


Digitized  by  Google 


FOREWORD 


V 


ulty  of  Philosophy  at  Jena  (1793),  he  was 
installed  in  1796  as  Co-Rector  at  Saalfeld.  His 
inaugural  thesis:  “Dissertatio  inauguralis  de 
aesthetica  transcendentali”,  is  dated  1792 
(Jena,  8vo.) ; this  was  followed  by  a “Treat- 
ise on  the  Original  Conditions  and  Formal 
Limitations  of  Free  Will”  in  German  and  an 
“Extract  from  my  Occasional  Writings”  also 
in  German  (1795).  From  1796  to  1800  he 
wrote  extensively  in  defence  of  the  teachings 
of  Fichte  in  Journals,  Reviews,  particularly 
in  the  Philosophical  Magazine  of  Schmidt, 
and  in  sundry  publications  emanating  from 
Fichte  himself.  He  published  moreover: 
“Animadversiones  in  loca  selecta  Novi  Testa- 
menti” (Saalfeld,  1798,  4to.),  “an  Apology 
for  his  pretended  Atheism”,  in  German 
(Gotha,  1799,  8vo.).  “Obligations  of  Learned 
Men”,  in  German  (Gotha,  1801,  8vo.),  etc. 

The  second  part  of  his  life  seems  to  have 
been  devoted  entirely  to  Literature.  In  1807 
he  was  appointed  as  Conservator  of  the  Aulic 
Library  at  Coburg,  and  having  had  enough  of 
philosophy,  he  turned  his  whole  attention  to 
the  study  of  Latin  and  Greek  antiquity.  Pre- 
viously to  this  his  tastes  had  already  been  re- 


Digitized  by  Google 


VI 


FOREWORD 


vealed  by  the  publication  of  several  pretty 
editions  of  the  minor  Latin  erotic  poets;  these 
form  a collection  of  six  or  eight  volumes  in 
16mo.,  with  red  margin-lines,  and  are  now 
very  difficult  to  procure.  The  discovery  he 
made  in  the  Coburg  library  of  a manuscript 
of  the  “Hermaphroditus”  of  Panormitanus, 
offering  important  new  readings  and  variants 
from  the  received  text,  suggested  the  idea  to 
him  of  producing  a definitive  edition  of  the 
work,  with  copious  commentaries. 

The  said  “Hermaphroditus”  so  called,  “be- 
cause”, says  La  Monnoye,  “all  the  filth  in  con- 
nection with  both  sexes  forms  the  theme  of  the 
volume”,  is  a collection  of  Latin  Epigrams 
filled  out  with  a patchwork  of  quotations  from 
Virgil,  Ovid  and  Martial,  in  which  memory 
has  a much  larger  share  than  imagination,  and 
which  has  never  appeared  to  us  to  possess  any 
great  literary  value.  But  the  mishaps  the  book 
has  had  to  encounter,  its  having  been  publicly 
burnt  in  manuscript  in  the  market  places  of 
Bologna,  Ferrara  and  Milan,  the  anathemas 
hurled  against  it  by  some  savants,  and  the 
favour  with  which  it  was  received  by  others, 
who  were  glad  to  awaken  by  its  perusal  old 


Digitized  by  Google 


FOREWORD 


VII 


reminiscences,  have  given  it  a kind  of  reputa- 
tion. The  Abbe  Mercier  de  Saint-Leger  was 
the  first  to  publish  it  in  Paris,  together  with 
the  works  of  four  other  poets  of  the  same  sort : 
Ramusius  de  Rimini,  Pacificus  Maximus,  Jo- 
vianus  Pontanus,  and  Joannes  Secundus  (a). 
But  Forberg,  whilst  fully  appreciating  the 
work  and  particularly  the  courage  of  the 
learned  Frenchman,  found  much  to  find  fault 
with;  the  Epigrams  of  Panormitanus  were 
not  numbered,  which  made  citations  from 
them  troublesome,  a great  number  of  readings 
were  faulty,  and,  thanks  to  his  manuscript,  he 
could  correct  them;  lastly,  Mercier  de  Saint- 
Leger  had  omitted  to  give  any  running  com- 
mentary on  his  author,  to  explain  his  text  by 
means  of  notes  and  the  comparison  of  parallel 
passages,  whereas,  according  to  Forberg  a 
book  of  this  character  required  notes  by  tens 
and  hundreds,  each  verse,  each  hemistich, 
each  word,  offering  matter  for  philosophical 


(a)  Quinque  illustrium  Poetarum,  Antonii  Panormi- 
tae;  Ramusii  Ariminensis;  Pacifici  Maximi  Asculani; 
Io.  Joviani  Pontani;  Io.  Secundi  Hagiensis,  Lusus  in 
Venerem,  partim  ex  codicibus  manuscriptis,  nunc  primum 
editi  Parisiis,  prostat  ad  Pristrinum,  in  Vico  suavi,  (at 
Paris,  at  Molini’ s,  Rue  Mignon) , 1791,  8vo. 


Digitized  by  Google 


VIII 


FOREWORD 


reflections  and  highly  interesting  comparisons. 
He  therefore  took  the  book  in  hand  and  be- 
gan to  collect  with  inquisitive  care  everything 
the  Ancients  had  written  upon  the  delicate 
subjects  treated  in  the  “Hermaphroditus”. 

But  having  come  to  the  end  of  his  task,  he 
found  that  his  commentary  would  drown  the 
book,  that  hardly  would  he  be  able  to  get  in  a 
verse  of  it  every  two  or  three  pages,  all  the 
remainder  of  the  book  being  taken  up  by  his 
notes,  and  that  the  result  would  be  chaos. 
Dividing  his  work  into  two  parts,  he  left  the 
smaller  one  in  the  shape  of  annotations,  re- 
duced to  the  merest  indispensable  explana- 
tions, to  the  “Hermaphroditus”,  while  of  the 
second  and  more  copious  harvest  of  his  erudite 
researches  he  composed  a special  treatise, 
which  he  had  printed  as  a supplement  under 
the  title,  “Apophoreta”,  or  “Second  Course”; 
this  treatise  being  in  his  eyes  only  a kind  of 
dessert,  following  upon  the  substantial  repast 
furnished  by  the  Latin  Poet  of  the  XVIth. 
century.  The  whole  forms  a volume  much 
sought  after  by  amateurs : “Antonii  Panormi- 
tae  Hermaphroditus;  primus  in  Germania 
edidit  et  Aphoreta  adjecit  Frider.  Carol.  For- 


Digitized  by  Google 


FOREWORD 


IX 


bergius.  Coburgi,  sumtibus  Meuseliorum, 
1824,  8vo  ”(b). 

Forberg,  good,  simple  man,  was  mistaken, 
owing  to  his  too  great  modesty;  the  true  feast, 
at  once  substantial,  nourishing  and  savoury,  is 
his  own  work,  the  work  which  he  elaborated 
from  his  own  resources,  from  his  inexhaust- 
ible memory  and  from  his  astonishing  knowl- 
edge of  the  Greek  and  Latin  authors  down  to 
their  minutest  details.  On  reprinting  this  ex- 
cellent work,  which  undoubtedly  deserved  to 
be  translated,  we  have  given  it  a new  title,  one 
that  is  much  more  suitable  than  the  old,  “The 
Manual  of  Classical  Erotology”.  In  virtue 
of  the  charm,  the  abundance,  the  variety  of  the 
citations,  it  is  a priceless  erotic  Anthology;  in 
virtue  of  the  methodical  classification  of  the 
contents  Forberg  has  adopted,  it  is  a didatic 
work, — a veritable  Manual.  He  began  with 
collecting  from  the  Greek  and  Latin  writers 
the  largest  number  possible  of  scattered  no- 

(b)  To  certain  copies  are  added  some  thirty  engrav- 
ings representing  the  principal  erotic  postures;  these  en- 
gravings are  taken  from  the  Monuments  de  la  Vie  Privee 
des  douze  Cesars,  and  from  the  Monuments  du  Culte 
Secret  des  Dames  Romaines,  two  works,  now  becoming 
every  day  rarer. 


Digitized  by  Google 


X 


FOREWORD 


tices,  which  might  serve  for  points  of  compar- 
ison with  the  Epigrams  of  Beccadelli ; having 
possessed  himself  of  a large  accumulation  of 
these,  it  occurred  to  him  to  set  them  out  in 
order,  arranging  them  in  conformity  with  the 
similarity  of  their  contents,  deciding  finally 
upon  a division  into  eight  chapters,  corre- 
sponding with  the  same  number  of  special 
manifestations  of  the  amorous  fancy  and  its 
depravities : 

I. — Of  Copulation. 

II. — Of  Pederastia. 

III.  — Of  Irrumation. 

IV.  — Of  Masturbation. 

V. — Of  Cunnilingues. 

VI,— Of  Tribads. 

VII. — Of  Intercourse  with  Animals. 

VIII. — Of  Spintrian  Postures. 

He  found  that  he  had  to  make  subdivisions 
in  each  class  according  to  the  nature  of  the 
subject,  to  note  particularities,  individualities; 
and  the  contrast  between  this  scientific  appa- 
ratus, and  the  facetious  matters  subjected  to 
the  rigorous  laws  of  deduction  and  demonstra- 
tion is  not  the  least  amusing  feature  of  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


FOREWORD 


XI 


book.  Probably  no  one  but  a German  savant 
could  have  conceived  the  idea  of  thus  classi- 
fying by  categories,  groups,  genera,  variations, 
species  and  sub-species  all  known  forms  of 
natural  and  unnatural  lusts,  according  to  the 
most  trustworthy  authors.  But  Forberg  pur- 
sued another  aim  besides.  In  the  course  of  his 
researches  he  had  noticed  how  reticent  the 
annotators  and  expounders  generally  are  in 
clearing  up  matters  which  would  seem  to  re- 
quire it  the  most,  some  in  consequence  of  a 
false  reserve,  others  for  fear  of  appearing  too 
knowing,  and  others  again  from  ignorance; 
also  how  many  mistakes  and  gross  blunders 
they  have  fallen  into,  by  reason  of  their  not 
understanding  ,the  language  of  erotics  and 
failing  to  grasp  its  infinite  shades  of  meaning. 

It  is  precisely  on  those  obscure  and  difficult 
passages  of  the  Ancient  poets,  on  those  expres- 
sions purposely  chosen  for  their  ambiguity, 
which  have  been  the  torment  of  the  critics  and 
the  puzzle  of  the  most  erudite  commentators, 
that  our  learned  Humanist  has  concentrated 
his  most  convincing  observations. 

The  number  of  authors,  Greek,  Latin, 
French,  German,  English,  Dutch,  whom  he 


Digitized  by  Google 


XII 


FOREWORD 


has  laid  under  contribution  in  order  to  formu- 
late his  exact  and  judicious  classifications, 
mounts  up  to  a formidable  total.  There  are 
to  be  found  in  the  Manual  of  Erotology  some- 
thing like  five  hundred  passages,  culled  from 
more  than  one  hundred  and  fifty  works,  all 
classified,  explained,  commented  upon,  and  in 
most  cases,  enveloped  in  darkness  as  they  had 
been,  made  plain  as  light  itself  by  the  mere 
fact  of  juxtaposition.  With  Forberg  for  a 
guide  no  one  need  henceforth  fear  to  go  astray, 
— to  believe,  for  instance,  like  M.  Leconte  de 
Lisle,  that  the  woman  of  whom  Horace  says 
that  she  changes  neither  dress  nor  place,  “pec- 
catve  superne"  “has  not  erred  beyond  meas- 
ure”; what  a mistake  1 — or  with  M.  Nisard 
to  translate  Suetonius  expression  “illudere 
caput  alicuius"  “to  attempt  some  ones  life” 

(c)  1 

Forberg,  a philosopher,  has  treated  these 
delicate  subjects  like  a philosopher,  namely, 
in  a purely  speculative  manner,  as  a man  quite 
above  and  beyond  terrestrial  matters,  and  par- 
ticularly so  with  respect  to  the  lubricities 


(c)  See  below  pp.  ??  and  ???  respectively. 


Digitized  by  Google 


FOREWORD 


xin 


which  he  has  made  it  his  task  to  examine  so 
closely.  He  declares  he  knows  nothing  of 
them  personally,  has  never  thought  of  making 
experimental  investigations  on  them,  but  de- 
rives all  his  knowledge,  from  books.  His  can- 
dour is  beyond  suspicion.  He  has  not  escaped 
censure;  but  having  a reply  ready  for  every 
objection  and  authorities  to  quote  on  every 
point,  he  found  an  answer  to  his  detractors 
ready  made  in  the  phrase  of  Justus  Lipsius, 
who  had  been  reproached  with  taking  plea- 
sure in  the  abominations  of  Petronius:  “The 
wines  you  set  upon  the  table  excite  the  drunk- 
ard and  leave  the  sober  man  perfectly  calm; 
in  the  same  way,  these  kinds  of  reading  may 
very  likely  inflame  an  imagination  already 
depraved,  but  they  make  no  impression  upon 
a mind  that  is  chaste  and  disciplined”. 


Digitized  by  Google 


THE 

Metamorphoses  of  Venus 


propose  to  pass  in  review  the  differ- 
ent metamorphoses  of  Venus, — 
though  truly  not  all  of  them.  For 
how  is  it  possible  to  specify  the 
thousand  modes  (1),  the  thousand  forms  of 


(1)  Ovid,  Art  of  Love,  I,  435,  36:  “To  fully  expose 
the  ungodly  wiles  of  harlots,  ten  mouths,  and  as  many 
tongues  to  boot  would  not  suffice.” 

Aloysia  Sigea:  “The  body  in  sacrificing  to  Venus  can 
take  as  many  postures  as  there  are  ways  in  which  it  can 
bend  and  curve.  It  is  equally  impossible  to  enumerate  all 
these,  as  it  is  to  say  which  is  best  fitted  to  give  pleasure. 
Each  acts  in  this  respect  according  to  his  own  caprice, 
according  to  place,  time,  and  so  on,  choosing  the  one  he 
prefers.  Love  is  not  identical  for  each  and  all."  (Dia- 
logue VI.) 

3 


Digitized  by  Google 


4 


THE  MANUAL 


Love,  on  which  the  inventive  satiety  of  pleas- 
ure ventures?  But  at  any  rate  such  as  fall  into 
distinct  and  definite  kinds  admit  of  being 
easily  and  methodically  classified.  Do  not, 
inquisitive  reader,  hope  for  more  than  this. 
We  are  not  of  those  who  seek  after  a petty 
personal  glory  by  unveiling  the  results  of  their 
own  experience  or  by  describing  novel  tours 
de  force  in  the  wrestling-school;  we  are  not 
so  much  as  raw  recruits  at  this  game.  Nor  yet 
is  it  our  intention  to  reveal  things  we  have  seen 
or  heard  in  this  connexion.  If  we  would,  we 
could  not, — to  your  satisfaction,  for  books  are 
our  only  authorities.  We  are  solely  and  en- 
tirely bookmen,  and  scarce  frequent  our  fel- 
low creatures  at  all. 

These  trifles  engaged  our  attention  first  as 
a mere  pastime.  We  were  led  to  them  acci- 
dentally, as  we  roamed  from  subject  to  subject 
for  Philosophy,  the  garden  we  had  hoped  to 
set  up  our  tent  in  for  life,  lies  desolate.  How 
can  Philosophy  flourish  in  times  like  ours, 
when  almost  every  new  day  sees  new  systems 
sprout  forth,  to  die  down  again  tomorrow; 
when  there  are  as  many  philosophers  as  philo- 
sophies, when  schools  have  ceased  to  exist, 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


5 


when  instead  of  groups  only  individuals  are 
to  be  met  with?  Our  second  motive  was  to 
provide  some  satisfaction,  however  little,  to 
the  claims  of  those  readers  who  very  often  find 
themselves  disconcerted  by  the  unconven- 
tional raciness  of  Ancient  authors  and  their 
out-spoken  witticisms,  and  justly  complain  of 
the  prudish  brevity  or  entire  silence  of  the 
Commentators  who  leave  their  difficulties  un- 
explained. Of  course  these  latter  wrote  for 
the  young;  and  no  one  can  blame  them  under 
the  circumstances  for  not  having  dwelt  care- 
fully and  curiously  on  shameful  secrets. 

If  we  have  fallen  into  any  mistakes,  lay  the 
fault,  we  beg,  first  on  our  insufficient  intellect- 
ual furniture,  secondly  on  our  ignorance  as  to 
the  more  uncommon  forms  of  lust,  an  ignor- 
ance prevalent  in  small  towns,  and  lastly,  if 
you  please,  put  it  down  to  the  honest  simpli- 
city of  our  Coburg  citizens’  members. 

We  only  follow  others’  example.  We  have 
predecessors  in  Astyanassa,  who  according  to 
Suidas  (2)  first  wrote  “of  Erotic  Postures”; 

(2)  Suidas  under  Astyanassa : “Astyanassa,  maid  of 
Helen  the  wife  of  Menelaus,  who  was  the  first  to  invent 
the  different  positions  in  the  act  of  love.  She  wrote  “Of 
Erotic  Postures” ; and  was  followed  and  imitated  by  Phi- 


Digitized  by  Google 


6 


THE  MANUAL 


and  in  Philaenis  of  Samos  (3),  or  rather,  to 
deprive  no  one  of  his  due,  Polycrates,  an  Athe- 
nian sophist,  who  brought  out  under  the  name 
of  an  honourable  matron  a book  “On  the  vari- 
ous Postures  of  Love”.  Then  there  was  Ele- 
phantis (4)  pr  Elephantine,  a Greek  girl, 


laenis  and  Elephantine,  who  carried  further  the  series  of 
suchlike  obscenities”. 

(3)  Priapeia,  LXIII:  "To  her  a certain  girl  (I  very 
nearly  gave  her  name)  is  wont  to  come  with  her  para- 
mour ; and  if  she  fails  to  discover  as  many  postures  as 
Philaenis  describes,  she  goes  away  again  still  itching  with 
desire”. 

Philaenis  has  found  a champion  of  her  good  name  in 
Aeschrion,  who  wrote  an  epitaph  for  her  that  is  still  ex- 
tant in  Athenaeus,  bk.  VIII.  cb.  13:  The  last  lines  read: 
“I  was  not  lustful  for  men  nor  a gad-about;  but  Poly- 
crates, by  race  an  Athenian,  a mill  clapper  of  talk,  a foul- 
tongued  sophist,  wrote — what  he  wrote ; 1 know  nought 
of  it  all”. 

Her  works  were  familiar  toTimarchus  in  Lucian  ( Apo - 
phras,  p.  158, — vol.  VII,  of  Works  of  Lucian,  edit.  J. 
P.  Schmid:  “Tell  me  where  you  find  these  words  and 
expressions, — in  what  books?  is  it  in  the  volumes  of 
Philaenis,  that  are  always  in  your  hands?” 

(4)  Suetonius,  Tiberius,  ch.  43:  “He  decorated  his 
various  and  variously  arranged  sleeping-chambers  With 
pictures  and  bas-reliefs  of  the  most  licentious  character, 
and  furnished  them  with  the  works  of  Philaenis,  that 
no  one  in  performing  should  want  a model  of  the  pos- 
ture required.” 

Priapeia,  III:  “Taking  pictures  from  the  licentious 
treatises  of  Elephantis,  Lalage  presents  them  an  offering 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


7 


whose  licentious  writings  Tiberius  is  said  to 
have  furnished  his  sleeping-room  with;  also 
Paxamus  (5)  who  composed  the  Dodecatech- 


to  the  stiff-standing  god,  and  begs  you  prove  if  she  per- 
forms agreeably  to  the  pictured  postures.” 

It  would  seem  then  that  artists  depicted  the  postures 
described  by  Elephantis,  she  herself  possibly  setting  the 
example.  Paintings  of  the  sort  Lalage  dedicates  to  Pria- 
pus, and  asks  her  lover  to  have  her  and  see  if  she  is  a do- 
cile pupil  in  faithfully  imitating  all  the  modes  of  connec- 
tion depicted  in  them.  No  doubt  such  representations 
of  licentious  postures,  taken  from  the  works  of  Elephantis 
or  Philaenis  or  elsewhere  stimulated  the  ingenuity  of 
Artists  to  work  out  in  emulation  these  enticing  motifs  to 
the  highest  degree  of  finish.  Ovid  alludes  to  such  works 
of  art  in  his  Art  of  Love,  II,  680:  “They  unite  in  Love 
in  a thousand  postures ; no  picture  could  suggest  any  fresh 
ones..." ; as  also  the  author  of  an  ancient  Epigram  quoted 
by  Joseph  Scaliger  in  his  Commentary  on  the  Priapeia, 
III ; “And  when  she  has  thrown  herself  into  every  pos- 
ture in  imitation  of  the  seductive  pictures,  she  may  go: 
but  let  the  picture  be  left  hanging  over  my  bed.”  Nothing 
was  commoner  with  the  Romans  than  to  decorate  the  wall 
and  partitions  of  rooms  with  licentious  paintings,  as  may 
be  gathered  from  Propertius  II,  vi,  27  sqq. : “The  hand 
that  first  painted  filthy  pictures,  and  exposed  foul  sights 
in  an  honest  home,  corrupted  the  pure  eyes  of  young 
maids,  and  chose  to  make  them  accomplices  of  his  own 
lubricity.  In  old  days  our  walls  were  not  daubed  with 
fancies  of  this  vile  sort,  when  never  a partition  was 
adorned  with  a vicious  subject.” 

(5)  Saidas : “Paxamus  wrote  the  Dodecatechmon;  the 
subject  is  the  obscene  postures.”  But  I think  he  has  no 
good  reason  to  connect  with  this  the  epithet  Dodecame- 


Digitized  by  Google 


8 


THE  MANUAL 


non  on  lascivious  postures;  and  Sotades  (6) 


chanos  given  to  a certain  Cyrene.  The  said  wanton  dam- 
sel seems  to  have  practised  rather  than  described  the 
twelve  postures  of  Venus.  Suidas  under  Dodecamechanon : 
“There  was  a famous  hetaera,  Cyrene  by  name,  further 
known  as  Dodecamechanos,  because  she  practised  twelve 
different  postures  in  making  love”. 

Aristophanes  says  in  the  Frogs,  1361-63:  “Do  you  dare 
to  criticize  my  songs,  you  that  modulate  your  cadences 
on  the  twelve-fold  postures  of  Cyrene?”.  Her  name 
occurs  also  in  the  Thesmophoriazusae  (104),  but  merely 
her  name.  (Our  invariable  rule  is  to  quote  from  Bur- 
mann’s  edition  of  Aristophanes.)  I am  doubtful  as  to 
whether  Musaeus  should  be  counted  among  writers  on  the 
Erotic  postures.  Martial  (XII,  97)  recommends  Ins- 
tantius Rufus  to  read  his  (Musaeus’)  books,  as  being  of 
the  most  advanced  laciviousness,  vying  with  those  of  the 
Sybarites  in  obscenity  and  full  of  the  most  suggestive  and 
spicy  wit;  warning  him  at  the  same  time  to  have  his 
girl  ready  to  hand,  if  he  did  not  want  his  hands  to  per- 
form the  wedding-march  and  consummate  the  marriage 
without  a woman  at  all. 

(6)  Athenaeus,  XIV,  13:  “Also  the  Ionic  dialect  has 
to  show  the  poems  of  Sotades  and  the  “Ionic”  poems 
preceding  his,  those  of  Alexander  the  Aetolian,  and  Pyres 
of  Miletus,  and  Alexis,  and  others  of  the  same  class.  The 
last  mentioned  is  known  as  the  Cinaedologue.  But  in 
this  genre  the  most  eminent  writer  is  Sotades,  of  Maro- 
neia,  as  is  stated  by  Carystius  of  Pergamus  in  his  work  on 
Sotades,  and  by  Apollonius,  Sotades’  son,  who  also  wrote 
a work  on  his  father’s  poems.  “His  end  was  a miserable 
one.  Having  assailed  Ptolemy  Philadelphus,  king  of 
Egypt,  with  witticisms  too  independent  for  the  sensitive 
ears  of  princes,  the  king  caused  him  to  be  enclosed  in  a 
leaden  casket,  and  thrown  into  the  sea.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


9 


of  Maroneia,  surnamed  the  Cinaedologue, 
from  whose  name  a whole  class  of  literature, 
remarkable  for  its  excessive  lubricity,  is 
known  as  the  Sotadic;  and  Sabellus,  of  whom 
Martial  speaks:  “Copious  verses,  only  too  co- 
pious, on  scandalous  subjects  you  have  read 
me,  O Sabellus,  such  as  neither  the  maids  of 
Didymus  (7)  know,  nor  yet  the  wanton  trea- 
tises of  Elephantis.  Therein  are  new  postures 
of  Love  that  the  desperate  fornicator  tries,  and 
what  debauchees  use,  but  never  tell  of, — how 
grouped  in  a series  five  copulate  at  once,  how 
a greater  number  still  can  make  a chain.  It 
was  hardly  worth  the  pains  to  be  erudite”. 

Moreover  amongst  our  predecessors  was 


(7)  Who  were  these  “maids  of  Didymus”.  Nobody 
knows.  Failing  any  more  plausible  supposition,  it  may 
very  well  be  conjectured  that  among  the  four  thousand 
works  written  according  to  Seneca  (Letter  LXXX- 
VIII)  by  the  Grammarian  Didymus,  there  was  one  on  the 
postures  of  lascivious  girls,  worthy  to  be  named  side  by 
side  with  the  treatises  of  Elephantis.  Undoubtedly  a man 
who  devoted  himelf  to  such  subtile  questions  as  whether 
Anacreon  was  more  libertine  than  drunkard,  whether 
Sappho  was  a public  woman  or  not,  was  quite  likely  to 
discuss  the  Erotic  postures. 


Digitized  by  Google 


10 


THE  MANUAL 


the  famous  Pietro  Aretino  (8),  a man  of  an 
almost  divine  genius,  whom  ill-natured  report 
represents  as  having  illustrated  sixteen  plates 
painted  by  Julio  Romano  and  engraved  on 
copper  by  Marc-Antonio  with  verses  indecent 
beyond  all  expression;  Lorenzo  Veniero  again 
(9),  a Venetian  nobleman,  author  of  a little 


(8)  See  Bayle's  Dictionary,  article:  Pierre  A re  tin;  also 
Murr’s  Journal  zur  Kunstgeschichte  (Year-Book  of  the 
History  of  Art) , vol.  XIV,  pp.  1-72. 

(9)  Pierre  Bayle , in  his  Dictionary,  under  Pierre  Are- 
tin:  “There  is  a Dialogue  between  Maddalena  and  Giula, 
entitled  La  Puttana  Errante  (The  wandering  whore),  in 
which  are  exhaustively  treated  i diversi  congiungimenti 
(the  different  modes  of  intercourse),  to  the  number  of 
thirty-five.  Aretino,  though  the  book  has  always  been 
printed  under  his  name,  disowns  it,  declaring  it  to  be  the 
work  of  one  of  his  pupils  named  Veniero.”  Brunet,  Man- 
ual du  Libraire  (Book  dealer’s  Handbook).  “The  Put- 
tana errante,  a little  book,  very  rare,  quite  worthy  of  Are- 
tino in  view  of  the  obscenities  it  countains,  but  which  has 
been  erroneously  attributed  to  him.  Lorenzo  Veniero,  a 
Venetian  nobleman,  is  the  real  author.  He  published  it 
to  avenge  himself  on  a Venetian  courtesan  named  Angela, 
whom  he  designates  under  the  insulting  name  of  Zaffetta, 
that  is  to  say,  in  the  Venetian  dialect,  daughter  of  a police- 
spy.” 

[Bayle,  Forberg  and  many  other  writers  have  confused 
the  Puttana  errante,  a poem  by  Lorenzo  Veniero  and  a 
burlesque  parody  of  the  Romances  of  chivalry,  with  the 
Dialogue  between  Maddalena  and  Giulia , a prose  work 
to  which  the  Elzevirs  gave  the  title  properly  belonging  to 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


11 


work  in  Italian,  bearing  the  title  La  Puttana 
Errante  (The  Wandering  Whore),  in  which 
he  has  undertaken  to  specify  no  less  than  thir- 
ty-five modes  of  loving.  Lastly  there  was  Nic- 
olas Chorier,  a French  lawyer,  who  under  the 
name  of  Aloysia  Sigaea,  a young  Spanish  lady, 
has  given  us  the  Satirae  Sotadicae  de  arcanis 
Amoris  et  Veneris  (Sotadic  Satires  on  the 
Secret  Rites  of  Love  and  Venus) ; though  the 
book  also  appears  under  the  name  of  Joannes 
Meursius  with  the  title  Elegantiae  Latini  Ser- 
monis (Graces  of  Latin  Prose).  In  this  book 
you  do  not  know  which  to  admire  most,  the 
style  at  once  elegant,  correct  and  careful,  yet 
free  from  pedantry,  the  wit  equally  gay  and 
graceful,  the  brilliant  sparks  of  Latin  erudit- 
ion that  glitter  everywhere,  the  rich  and  copi- 
ous eloquence  graced  as  with  jewels  by  pol- 
ished and  luminous  words  and  phrases  of  a 
pleasant  antique  flavour,  or  lastly  the  pre-emi- 


the  poem.  Neither  one  nor  the  other  is  the  work  of 
Pietro  Aretino.  See  note  at  end  of  vol.  VI.  of  the  Dia- 
logues du  divin  Pietro  Aretino  (Dialogues  of  the  divine 
Pietro  Aretino),  Paris,  Liseux,  1879,  3 vols.  18°,  and 
London,  1880,  3 vols.  18°.  [Note  of  French  Translation 
of  Forberg,  Manuel  d'Erotologie  classique,  Paris  Liseux, 
1882.] 


Digitized  by  Google 


12 


THE  MANUAL 


nent  skill  displayed  in  varying  with  such 
manifold  versatility  one  simple  theme.  The 
others  we  need  not  mention  further. 

Our  predecessors,  whether  the  more  mod- 
ern, or  those  of  Antiquity  whom  we  have 
cited,  and  all  whose  works  alas!  envious  time 
has  robbed  us  of,  did  not  lack  severe  critics, 
nor  yet  studious  readers.  And  our  own  treatise 
will  no  doubt  in  its  turn  meet  with  both  these 
classes.  It  is  a man’s  book;  we  have  written  it, 
fearless  of  censure,  for  men, — not  for  such  as 
are  wont  with  growning  brow  “to  pitchfork 
nature  out  of  doors”,  but  rather  for  such  as 
have  once  for  all  dared  to  live  their  lives,  who 
neither  wish  to  lurk  in  darkness  nor  yet  to  defy 
the  open  day  with  effrontery,  in  one  word  for 
those  who  think  that  in  Love  as  in  all  else  the 
golden  mean  is  the  course  to  choose.  Let 
others  go  their  way,  and  arrogate  to  them- 
selves the  title  of  sages! 


Digitized  by  Google 


he  work  of  Venus  may  be  accom- 
plished with  or  without  the  help  of 
the  mentula  (virile  member).  If 
with  the  mentula,  the  friction  of 
this  organ,  in  which  friction  the  whole  pleas- 
ure consists,  can  be  effected  either  in  the  vulva 
(female  organ),  in  the  anus  (arse-hole),  in 
the  mouth,  by  the  hand  or  in  any  cavity  of  the 
body.  If  without  the  mentula,  the  vulva  may 
be  worked  either  with  the  tongue,  with  the 
clitoris,  or  with  any  object  resembling  the 
virile  organ. 


Digitized  by  Google 


CHAPTER  I 

OF  COPULATION 


nd  first  of  all  let  us  consider  what  is 
accomplished  by  means  of  the  men- 
tula introduced  into  the  vulva. 
This  is,  properly  speaking,  to  effect  copula- 
tion; but  there  are  various  ways  of  doing  it. 
As  a matter  of  fact  copulation  can  be  effected : 
— the  man  face  downwards  with  the  woman 


on  her  back,  the  man  on  his  back  with  the 
woman  face  down,  the  man  on  his  back  with 
the  woman  turning  her  back  to  him;  the  man 
sitting  with  the  woman  turning  her  face  to- 
wards him,  sitting  with  the  woman  turning 
her  back  to  him;  the  man  standing  or  kneel- 
ing with  the  woman  turning  her  face  towards 
him,  standing  or  kneeling  with  the  woman 
turning  her  back  to  him.  Let  us  examine  each 
of  these  methods  separately. 


IS 


Digitized  by  Google 


16 


THE  MANUAL 


Coition  with  the  man  face  down  on  the  wo- 
man who  lies  on  her  back  is  the  ordinary 
method,  and  the  most  natural. 

Aloysia  Sigaea  says: 

“For  my  own  part  I like  the  usual  custom 
and  the  ordinary  method  best:  the  man  should 
lie  upon  the  woman,  who  is  on  her  back, 
breast  to  breast,  stomach  to  stomach,  pubis  to 
pubis,  piercing  her  tender  cleft  with  his  rigid 
spear.  Indeed  what  can  be  imagined  sweeter 
than  for  the  woman  to  lie  extended  on  her 
back,  bearing  the  welcome  weight  of  her 
lovers’  body,  and  exciting  him  to  the  tender 
transports  of  a restless  but  delicious  voluptu- 
ousness? What  more  pleasant  than  to  feast  on 
her  lovers’  face,  his  kisses,  his  sighs,  and  the 
fire  of  his  wanton  eyes?  What  better  than  to 
press  the  loved  one  in  her  arms  and  so  awake 
new  fires  of  desire,  to  participate  in  amorous 
sensations  unblunted  by  any  taint  of  age  or 
infirmity?  What  more  favorable  to  the  de- 
light and  enjoyment  of  both  than  such  lasci- 
vious movements  given  and  received?  What 
more  opportune  at  the  instant  of  dying  a 
voluptious  death  than  to  recover  again  under 
the  revivifying  vigour  of  burning  kisses?  He 


Digitized  by  Googl 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


17 


who  plies  Venus  on  the  reverse  side,  satisfies 
but  one  of  his  senses,  he  who  does  the  same 
face  to  face  satisfied  them  all”.  (Dialogue 

VI.) 

Ovid,  the  Master  of  Loves’  Mysteries,  in- 
vites pretty  women  to  take  this  posture  by 
preference 

“See  you  reckon  up  each  of  your  charms, 
and  take  your  posture  according  to  your 
beauty..  One  and  the  same  mode  does  not  be- 
come every  woman.  You  are  especially  at- 
tractive of  face;  then  lie  on  your  back.”  ( Art 
of  Love,  III,  771-773.) 

This  posture  is  by  no  means  limited  to  one 
mode.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back,  the 
rider  may  clasp  her  between  his  legs,  or  she 
may  receive  him  between  hers.  Yet  another 
position  may  be  adopted,  according  as  the 
woman  lie  back  with  legs  stretched  wide 
apart  or  with  the  knees  raised. 

It  is  this  position, — lying  on  her  back  with 
legs  wide  apart,  that  Caviceo  asks  Olympia 
to  assume  for  making  Love: 

“I  do  not  wish  you”,  he  says,  “to  work 
your  buttocks,  or  to  respond  with  correspon- 
ding movements  to  my  efforts.  Neither  do  I 


Digitized  by  Google 


18 


THE  MANUAL 


wish  you  to  lift  your  legs  up,  whether  both  at 
once,  or  one  after  the  other,  when  I have 
mounted  you.  What  I do  wish  you  to  do  is 
this:  First  stretch  your  thighs  as  far  apart, 
open  them  as  wide  as  a woman  well  can.  Of- 
fer your  vulva  to  the  member  which  is  going 
to  pierce  it,  and  without  altering  this  position, 
let  me  complete  the  work...  Count  my  thrusts 
one  by  one,  and  see  you  make  no  mistake  in 
the  total”  (Aloysia  Sigaea,  Dialogue  V). 

Would  you  see  a representation  of  this? 
Take  the  tale  Felicia  ou  mes  fredaines,  part 
II,  chap,  xxv,  and  look  at  the  plate  facing  the 
text. 

The  other  position,  in  which  the  woman  is 
lying  with  her  knees  raised,  is  the  one  which 
Callias  makes  Tullia  take: 

“After  I am  lying  upon  your  dear  body”, 
he  says,  “press  me  fast  in  your  arms,  and  hold 
me  thus  embraced.  Draw  your  legs  back  as 
far  as  you  can,  so  that  your  pretty  feet  touch 
your  buttocks,  smooth  as  marble”  (Aloysia 
Sigaea,  Dialogue  VI). 

If  you  would  enter  the  woman  lying  on 
her  back  with  her  legs  in  the  air,  it  may  be 
done  in  yet  another  way  than  Tullia’s  mode, 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


19 


and  one  perhaps  still  more  delicious,  by  plac- 
ing your  mistress  so  that  she  rests  her  legs 
crossed  over  the  loins  of  her  rider.  A repre- 
sentation of  this  very  pleasant  posture,  which 
would  rouse  the  numbed  tool  of  a Hippolytus, 
is  to  be  found  in  part  IV.  of  the  Felicia  men- 
tioned above.  There  is  another  similar  plate 
in  chap,  xxi,  not  without  charm.  Doris,  in  the 
epigram  of  Sosipater,  vol.  I.  of  the  Analecta 
of  Brunck  (p.  584),  seems  also  to  have  made 
a trial  of  this  figure: 

“When  I stretched  Doris  with  the  rosy  but- 
tocks on  the  bed,  I felt  immortal  in  my  youth- 
ful vigour;  for  she  clipped  me  round  the  mid- 
dle with  her  strong  legs,  and  unswervingly 
rode  out  the  long-course  of  Love.” 

Doris  did  not  bestride  him;  the  expression, 
“When  I stretched”  shows  this;  she  was  lying 
on  her  back,  and  with  her  feet  lifted  up 
clasped  her  rider. 

But  again  the  feet  of  the  woman  lying  on 
her  back  may  also  be  held  up  by  others.  In 
this  way  Aloysio  enjoyed  Tullia  with  the  help 
of  Fabrizio,  in  the  VI.  Dialogue  of  Aloysia 
Sigaea,  where  Tullia  expresses  herself  as  fol- 
lows: 


Digitized  by  Google 


20 


THE  MANUAL 


“Aloysio  and  Fabrizio  come  running  to- 
wards me.  “Lift  up  your  legs”,  says  Aloysio 
to  me,  threatening  me  with  his  cutlas.  I lifted 
them  up.  Then  down  he  lies  on  my  bosom, 
and  plunges  his  cutlass  in  my  ever  open 
wound.  Fabrizio  raised  my  two  legs  in  the 
air,  and  slipping  a hand  under  each  of  my 
hams,  moves  my  loins  for  me  without  any 
trouble  on  my  part.  What  a singular  and 
pleasant  mode  of  making  you  move!  I de- 
clared I was  on  fire,  but  before  I could  end 
my  sentence,  the  overflowing  foam  of  Venus 
quenched  the  fire  (10)”. 

So  too  was  it  with  feet  in  air,  whether  of 
her  own  accord  or  seconded  by  another,  that 
Leda  gave  herself,  with  her  husband’s  con- 
sent, to  the  doctors  who  had  been  called  in, 
as  Martial  describes  the  scene: 


(10)  This  method  was  not  unknown  at  the  time  of 
Aristophanes,  as  we  see  from  the  following  passage  of 
the  Peace-. 

“So  that  you  may  straightway,  lifting  up  the  girl’s 
legs,  accomplish  high  in  air  the  mysteries”  (v.  889, 
890). 

And  in  the  Birds  he  says: 

“For  this  girl,  your  first  messenger,  why!  I will  lift 
up  her  legs  and  will  in  between  her  thighs"  (v.  1254, 
55). 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


21 


“To  her  old  spouse  Leda  had  declared  her- 
self to  be  hysterical,  and  complains  she  must 
needs  be  f...cked;  yet  with  tears  and  groans 
avers  she  will  not  buy  health  at  such  a price, 
and  swears  she  had  rather  die.  The  husband 
beseeches  her  to  live,  not  to  die  in  her  youth 
and  beauty;  and  permits  others  to  do  what  he 
cannot  effect  himself.  Straightway  the  doc- 
tors arrive,  the  matrons  retire;  and  up  go  the 
wife’s  legs  in  air;  oh!  medicine  grave  and 
stern!”  (XI,  72.) 

Face  downwards  to  her  the  man  may  do 
the  woman’s  business,  while  she  is  half  re- 
clining, either  obliquely  in  bed,  or  on  a chair, 
or  lying  sideways. 

The  latter  position  is  recommended  by 
Ovid  to  the  woman  with  rounded  thighs  and 
faultless  figure: 

“She  that  has  young  rounded  thigh  and 
flawless  bosom,  should  ever  lie  reclined  side- 
ways on  the  couch”  (11)  ( Art  of  Love,  II, 
v.  781,  782). 


(11)  Readers  will  find  another  figure  given  in  some  of 
the  books:  “The  man  should  be  standing,  while  the 
woman  reclines  sideways  on  the  bed.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


22 


THE  MANUAL 


Copulation  face  to  face  with  the  woman 
sitting  obliquely  is  described  by  Aloysia 
Sigaea  with  her  usual  elegance  and  vivacity: 

“Caviceo  came  on,  blithe  and  joyous”  (it  is 
Olympia  speaking).  He  despoils  me  of  my 
chemise,  and  his  libertine  hand  touches  my 
parts.  He  tells  me  to  sit  down  again  as  I was 
seated  before,  and  places  a chair  under  either 
foot  in  a way  that  my  legs  were  lifted  high 
in  air,  and  the  gate  of  my  garden  was  wide 
open  to  the  assaults  I was  expecting.  He  then 
slides  his  right  hand  under  my  buttocks  and 
draws  me  a little  closer  to  him.  With  his  left 
he  supported  the  weight  of  his  spear.  Then 
he  laid  himself  down  on  me...  put  his  batter- 
ing-ram to  my  gate,  inserted  the  head  of  his 
member  into  the  outermost  fissure,  opening 
the  lips  of  it  with  his  fingers.  But  there  he 
stopped,  and  for  awhile  made  no  further  at- 
tack. “Octavia  sweetest”,  he  says,  “clasp  me 
tightly,  raise  your  right  thigh  and  rest  it  on 
my  side.” — “I  do  not  know  what  you  want”, 
I said.  Hearing  this  he  lifted  my  thigh  with 
his  own  hand,  and  guided  it  round  his  loin, 
as  he  wished ; finally  he  forced  his  arrow  into 
the  target  of  Venus.  In  the  beginning  he 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


23 


pushes  in  with  gentle  blows,  then  quicker, 
and  at  last  with  such  force  I could  not  doubt 
that  I was  in  great  danger.  His  member  was 
hard  as  horn,  and  he  forced  it  in  so  cruelly, 
that  I cried  out,  “You  will  tear  me  to  pieces.” 
He  stopped  a moment  from  his  work.  “I  im- 
plore you  to  be  quiet,  my  dear”,  he  said,  “it 
can  only  be  done  this  way;  endure  it  without 
flinching”.  Again  his  hand  slid  under  my 
buttocks,  drawing  me  nearer,  for  I had  made 
a feint  to  draw  back,  and  without  more  delay 
plied  me  with  such  fast  and  furious  blows  that 
I was  near  fainting  away.  With  a violent  ef- 
fort he  forced  his  spear  right  in,  and  the  point 
fixed  itself  in  the  depths  of  the  wound.  I cry 
out...  Caviceo  spurted  out  his  venerean  exuda- 
tion, and  I felt  irrigated  by  a burning  rain... 
Just  as  Caviceo  slackened,  I experienced  a 
sort  of  voluptuous  itch  as  though  I were  mak- 
ing water;  involuntarily  I draw  my  buttocks 
back  a little,  and  in  an  instant  I felt  with  su- 
preme pleasure  something  flowing  from  me 
which  tickled  me  deliciously.  My  eyes  failed 
me,  my  breath  came  thick,  my  face  was 
on  fire,  and  I felt  my  whole  body  melting. 
“Ah!  ah!  ah!  my  Caviceo,  I shall  faint 


Digitized  by  Google 


24 


THE  MANUAL 


away”,  I cried;  “hold  my  soul — it  is  escaping 
from  my  body”  (Dialogue  V). 

Finally  the  conjunction  with  the  woman 
lying  on  her  side,  particularly  on  her  right 
side,  is  deemed  by  Ovid  the  most  simple,  call- 
ing for  the  least  effort: 

“A  thousand  modes  of  Love  are  there;  the 
simplest  and  least  laborious  of  all  is  when  the 
woman  lies  reclined  on  her  right  side"  ( Art 
of  Love,  III,  78 7,  88). 

Above  all  this  position  is  the  most  conveni- 
ent for  tall  women: 

“Let  her  press  the  bed  with  her  knees,  with 
the  neck  slightly  bowed,  she  whose  chief 
beauty  is  her  long  shapely  flank”  ( Art  of 
Love,  III,  v.  779,  80). 

It  seems  that  the  Phyllis  of  Martial  allowed 
herself  to  be  done  in  that  way: 

“Two  arrived  in  the  morning,  who  wanted 
to  lie  with  Phyllis,  and  each  was  fain  to  be 
first  to  held  her  naked  body  in  his  arms; 
Phyllis  promised  to  satisfy  them  both  to- 
gether, and  she  did  it;  one  lifted  her  leg,  the 
other  her  tunic”  (X,  81). 

She  was  lying  on  her  side;  the  f...  lifted  her 
leg;  the  pederast  her  tunic. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


25 


We  now  come  to  the  manner,  in  which  the 
man  lying  on  his  back  has  connection  with 
the  woman  face  downwards.  The  parts  are 
interchanged ; the  woman  plays  the  rider  and 
the  man  the  horse.  This  figure  was  called  the 
horse  of  Hector. 

Martial  says: 

“Behind  the  doors  the  Phrygian  slaves 
would  be  masturbating,  every  time  Andro- 
mache mounted  her  Hector  horse  fashion” 
(XI,  105). 

Ovid,  however,  with  much  sagacity  denies 
that  this  posture  could  have  pleased  Andro- 
mache; her  figure  was  too  tall,  for  this  to  have 
been  agreeable  or  even  possible  for  her.  It  is 
for  little  women,  that  it  is  pleasant  to  be  thus 
placed : 

“A  little  woman  may  very  well  get  astride 
on  her  horse;  but  tall  and  majestic  as  she  was, 
the  Theban  bride  never  mounted  the  Hector- 
ean  horse”  ( Art  of  Love  III,  v.  777,  778). 

It  is  no  business  of  ours  to  decide  the  ques- 
tion. 

At  any  rate  Sempronia  takes  this  posture 
with  Crisogono. 

“He  could  wait  no  longer:  “Are  you  un- 


Digitized  by  Google 


26 


THE  MANUAL 


dressed”,  said  Cricogono.  “Now,  my  Sem- 
pronia, take  the  position,  which  gives  me  so 
much  pleasure,  you  know  which.”  He 
stretches  himself  down  on  his  back,  she  gets 
upon  him  astride,  with  her  face  towards  him, 
and  with  her  own  hand  guides  his  burning 
arrow  between  her  thighs”  (Aloysia  Sigea, 
Dial.  VII). 

This  is  the  same  attitude,  which  in  Horace 
is  imposed  by  the  slave  upon  the  little  harlot, 
who: 

“ naked  in  the  light  of  the  lantern,  plied 

with  wanton  wiles  and  moving  buttocks  the 
horse  beneath  her”  (Sat.  II.  vii,  v.  SO). 

As  to  the  matron  spoken  of  v.  64  of  the  same 
satire  as  “never  having  sinned  above ”,  no 
doubt  this  posture  did  not  suit  her.  Women 
have  not  all  the  same  taste. 

Evidently,  it  was  as  little  to  the  taste  of  the 
girl  whom  Xanthias  in  Aristophanes’  Wasps 
(v.  499)  asked  to  ride  him;  for  she  asks  him 
indignantly,  and  playing  on  the  double  mean- 
ing of  the  word  (Hippias  and , a horse), 

if  he  was  for  re  - establishing  Hippias’ 
tyranny:  “Irritated  she  asked  me  if  I wanted 
to  revive  the  tyranny  of  Hippias.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY  27 

Again  in  his  Lysistrata  (v.  678)  this  mas- 
ter of  wanton  wit  points  to  the  same  thing,  de- 
claring the  female  sex  to  be  very  good  at  rid- 
ing and  fond  of  driving:  “Woman  loves  to 
get  on  horseback  and  to  stick  there.” 

Aristophanes  mocks  similarly  those,  of 
whom  he  says,  in  verse  60  of  the  same  play, 
that  “They  are  aboard  their  barks”.  “They 

are  mounted  on  their  chargers”.  For 

signifies  both  a ship  and  a horse.  Plango  in 
Asclepiades,  Brunck’s  Analecta,  vol.  I,  217, 
affects  the  same  figure. 

“When  she  in  horsemanship  vanquished  the 
ardent  Philaenis,  whilst  her  Hesperian 
coursers  foamed  under  her  reins.” 

Yet  more  expert  in  this  kind  of  amorous 
riding  than  Philaenis  herself,  this  ardent  vo- 
tary of  pleasure  thanks  Venus  in  this  epigram, 
that  she  has  been  able  so  to  exhaust  certain 
Hesperian  gallants,  whom  she  had  mounted, 
that  they  had  left  her  with  wanton  members 
all  drooping,  and  feeling  no  desire  left  in 
them.  To  bestride  men  was  also  the  favourite 
pastime  of  Lysidice,  who  was  never  tired  in 
the  service  of  Venus,  of  whom  the  following 
epigram  of  Asclepiades  treats: 


Digitized  by  Googl 


28 


THE  MANUAL 


“Many  a horse  has  she  ridden  beneath  her, 
yet  never  galled  her  thigh  with  all  her  nimble 
movements.” 

Courtesans  consecrated  to  Venus  a whip,  a 
bit,  a spur,  in  order  to  signify,  that  with  their 
clients  they  like  best  to  pose  themselves  in  that 
way,  and  that  they  preferred  riding  them- 
selves to  being  ridden, — nothing  more. 

It  is  the  same  when  in  Apuleius,  Fotis 
satiated  her  Lucius  with  the  pleasures  of  the 
undulating  Venus: 

“Saying  this  she  leaped  upon  the  couch 
and,  seated  upon  me  backwards,  plying  her 
hips,  vibrating  her  lithe  spine  lasciviously, 
she  satiated  me  with  the  delights  of  the  un- 
dulating Venus,  till  both  of  us  exhausted, 
powerless  and  with  useless  limbs,  sunk  down, 
exhaling  our  souls  in  mutual  embraces” 
( Metamorph II,  ch.  II). 

The  next  figure, — the  man  lying  supine  and 
the  woman  turning  her  back  to  him,  is  execut- 
ed by  Rangoni  with  Ottavia,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Tullia: 

Rangoni:  Look  how  stiff  I stand!  But  I 
want  to  try  the  bliss  in  a new  way. 

TULLIA : In  a new  way?  No!  I swear  by 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


29 


my  wanton  soul  you  shall  not.  You  shall  not 
take  a new  way. 

RANGONI:  It  was  a slip  of  the  tongue;  I 
meant  to  say  a new  posture. 

Tullia:  And  what  sort  of  one?  I have  an 
idea...  what  they  call  the  horse  of  Hector. 
Lie  down  on  your  back,  Rangoni;  let  your 
puissant  spear  stand  firm  to  the  enemy,  who 
is  to  be  pierced,  Well  done! 

OTTAVIA:  What  must  I do,  Tullia? 

Tullia:  Clip  Rangoni  between  your 
thighs,  mounting  him  a-straddle.  His  cutlass 
as  he  lies  should  meet  your  sheath  poised  over 
it.  Why!  you’ve  taken  the  position  admirably. 
Excellent! 

Rangoni:  Oh!  what  a back,  worthy  of  Ve- 
nus! Oh!  the  ivory  sides  1 Ohl  the  inviting 
buttocks ! 

Tullia : No  naughty  words!  He  who 
praises  the  buttocks,  slanders  the  vulval  You 
know  better,  Ottavia!  Her  greedy  vulva  has 
swallowed  your  bristling  member  whole, 
Rangoni. 

OTTAVIA:  Quick,  Rangoni,  it  is  coming!... 
quick,  quick,  help  mel 

RANGONI : I am  coming,  Ottavia, — I am 


Digitized  by  Google 


30 


THE  MANUAL 


come!  Are  you? — Are  you,  darling! 

Tullia : How  now?  Are  you  so  quickly 
done  up,  you  two?  (Aloysia  Sigaea,  Dial. 

VI). 

The  pygiacic  (12)  mysteries,  to  which  Eu- 
molpus in  Petronius  (Satires,  ch,  cxl),  in- 
vites a young  girl,  refer  to  the  posture  prac- 
tised by  the  man  lying  on  his  back,  with  the 
woman  upon  him,  her  back  turned  towards 
him. 

“Eumolpus  did  not  hesitate  to  invite  the 
young  girl  to  the  pygiacic  mysteries,  but 
begged  of  her  to  seat  herself  upon  the  good- 
ness known  to  her  (that  being  himself,  to 
whose  goodness  the  mother  had  recommended 
her  daughter),  and  ordered  Corax  to  get  on 
his  stomach  under  the  bed  on  which  he  was, 
so  that  with  his  hands  pressed  against  the 
floor,  he  might  assist  with  his  movements 
those  of  his  master.  Corax  obeyed,  beginning 
with  slow  undulations  responding  to  those  of 
the  young  girl.  When  the  crisis  was  ap- 
proaching, Eumolpus  exhorted  Corax  with  a 
loud  voice  to  quicken  up  his  movements. 
Thus  placed  between  his  servant  and  his  mis- 


(12)  From  buttock. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


31 


tress,  the  old  man  took  his  pleasure  as  in  a 
swing.” 

Would  it  be  surprising,  if  in  these  posterior 
mysteries,  Eumolpus’  member  had  perchance 
gone  wrong,  and  taken  by  mistake  one  orifice 
for  the  other? 

You  will  find  this  figure  represented  in  a 
copper-plate  engraving  in  the  very  elegant 
book  of  d’Hancarville,  Monuments  du  culte 
secret  des  dames  romaines,  ch.  xxv,  and  you 
will  be  glad  to  know  the  note,  with  which  the 
learned  annotator  accompanies  the  same. 

“This  attitude  is  to  the  taste  of  many  men, 
and  even  the  ladies  find  an  increase  of  pleas- 
ure in  practising  it.  It  is  supposed,  that 
Priapus  penetrates  farther  in,  and  that  the 
fair  one  by  her  movements  procures  for  her- 
self a more  voluptuous  delight,  and  a more 
abundant  libation.” 

Is  it  possible  for  the  man,  conveniently,  to 
manage  the  business  while  turning  his  back 
to  the  woman  lying  on  her  back?  Experts 
must  decide.  Aloysia  Sigaea  says  with  good 
common  sense: 

“There  are  many  postures  it  is  impossible 
to  execute,  even  supposing  the  joints  and  loins 


Digitized  by  Google 


32 


THE  MANUAL 


of  the  candidates  for  the  sacred  joys  of  Venus 
more  flexible  than  can  be  believed.  By  dint  of 
pondering  and  reflection  more  ideas  occur  to 
the  fancy  than  it  is  practicable  to  realize: 
Nothing  is  inconceivable  to  the  longings  of 
an  unbridled  will;  nothing  difficult  to  a furi- 
ous and  unregulated  imagination.  Love  will 
find  out  a way;  and  an  ardent  fancy  level 
mountains.  Only  the  body  is  unable  to 
comply  with  everything  the  mind,  good  or 
bad,  suggests.” 

In  another  work  of  d’Hancarville’s,  Monu- 
ments de  la  vie  privee  des  douze  Cesars,  plate 
XXVII,  you  find  represented  men  seated  and 
copulating  with  women,  who  are  facing 
them ; plate  XV,  in  the  same  book  presents  to 
your  curiosity  a man  sitting  and  working  a 
woman,  who  turns  her  back  on  him.  Augus- 
tus is  seated : he  is  attacking  backwards,  with 
true  imperial  audacity,  Terentia  (13),  the 

(13)  Dio  Cassius,  LIV,  19:  “He  was  so  fond  of  her, 
that  one  day  he  matched  her  against  Livia,  as  to  which 
of  them  was  the  most  beautiful.”  It  was  no  bad  idea 
to  engage  them  in  such  a match,  but  think  you  he  suf- 
fered them  to  fight  this  out  in  any  costume  but  that  in 
which  the  Goddesses  three  presented  themselves  before 
the  dazed  eyes  of  Paris? 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


33 


wife  of  Maecenas,  after  drawing  her  onto  his 
lap;  Maecenas  is  present,  asleep — asleep  of 
course  only  for  the  Emperor.  You  may  see  a 
similar  posture  in  the  Contes  et  Nouvelles  en 
vers  by  Jean  de  la  Fontaine:  it  is  on  the  plate 
appended  to  the  tale,  called  Le  Tableau,  p. 
223,  vol.  II,  Amsterdam,  1762. 

Nothing  is  more  frequent  than  conjunction 
whilst  standing,  the  woman  with  her  back  to 
the  man;  it  is  indeed  very  easy  to  do  it  that 
way  in  any  place,  as  you  have  only  to  lift  up 
the  fair  one’s  petticoats,  and  out  with  your 
weapon;  it  is,  therefore,  the  best  manner  for 
those  who  have  to  make  instantaneous  use  of 
an  opportunity,  when  it  is  important  to  be 
sharp  about  it,  as  may  happen,  when  you  take 
your  pleasure  in  secret.  Thus  Priapus  com- 
plains of  the  wives  and  daughters  of  his 
neighbors,  who  came  incessantly  to  him  burn- 
ing with  ticklish  desires. 

“Cut  off  my  genital  member,  which  every 
night  and  all  night  long  my  neighbours’  wives 
and  daughters,  for  ever  and  for  ever  in  heat, 
more  wanton  than  sparrows  in  springtide,  tire 
to  death, — or  I shall  burst!...”  ( Priapeia , 
XXV). 


Digitized  by  Google 


34 


THE  MANUAL 


I remember  a medical  man  of  our  time,  one 
of  the  most  celebrated  professors,  (I  had 
nearly  uttered  his  name),  who  to  emphasize 
this,  called  his  daughter,  and  pointing  to  the 
blushing  girl,  while  his  hearers  could  not  help 
smiling  said:  “This  girl  I fabricated  stand- 
ing.” A representation  of  this  position  is  to 
be  found  in  the  Monuments  de  la  vie  privee 
de  douze  Cesars,  pi.  XLVI,  and  another  in 
the  Monuments  du  culte  secrets  des  dames 
romaines,  pi.  XIII. 

But  further,  a man  may  join  himself  to  a 
woman  standing  face  to  face  by  supporting 
her  in  such  a way,  that  her  whole  body  is 
lifted  up,  her  thighs  resting  on  the  man’s  hips, 
os  else  by  lifting  up  the  lower  part  of  her 
body,  whilst  the  upper  part  is  resting  on  a 
couch.  Will  you  feast  you  eyes  with  a repre- 
sentation of  this  not  ungraceful  position?  If 
so  you  will  not  omit  to  look  at  plate  XXIV  of 
the  Monuments  du  culte  secret  des  dames 
romaines,  and  plate  XL  of  the  Monuments  de 
la  vie  privee  des  douze  Cesars ; Ovid,  if  I am 
not  mistaken,  had  his  eyes  on  one  or  the  other 
of  these  figures: 

“Milanion  was  supporting  Atalanta’s  legs 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


35 


on  his  shoulders;  if  they  are  fine  legs  this  is 
how  they  should  be  held”  ( Art  of  Love,  III, 
w.  775,  776).  The  former  of  these  modes  is 
no  doubt  that  described  by  Aloysia  Sigaea, 
Past  Mistress  of  these  naughtinesses,  and  with 
a vivacity,  a grace,  and  elegance  that  leaves 
nothing  to  be  desired : 

“La  Tour  came  forward  instantly I had 

thrown  myself  on  the  foot  of  the  bed” — 
(Tullia  is  speaking) — “I  was  naked;  his 
member  was  erect.  Without  more  ado  he 
grasps  in  either  hand  one  of  my  breasts,  and 
brandishing  his  hard  and  inflamed  lance  be- 
tween my  thighs,  exclaims  “Look  Madam, 
how  this  weapon  is  darting  at  you,  not  to 
kill  you,  but  to  give  you  the  greatest  possible 
pleasure.  Pray,  guide  this  blind  applicant 
into  the  dark  recess,  so  that  it  may  not  miss 
its  destination;  I will  not  remove  my  hands 
from  where  they  are,  I would  not  deprive 
them  of  the  bliss  they  enjoy.”  I do  as  he 
wishes,  I introduce  myself  the  flaming  dart 
into  the  burning  centre;  he  feels  it,  drives  in, 
pushes  home...  After  one  or  two  strokes  I felt 
myself  melting  away  with  incredible  titilla- 
tion,  and  my  knees  all  but  gave  way.  “Stop”, 


Digitized  by  Google 


36 


THE  MANUAL 


I cried — “stop  my  soul,  it  is  escaping!”  “I 
know”,  he  replied,  laughing,  “from  where. 
No  doubt  your  soul  wants  to  escape  through 
this  lower  orifice,  of  which  I have  possession ; 
but  I keep  it  well  stoppered.”  Whilst  speak- 
ing he  endeavoured,  by  holding  his  breath, 
still  further  to  increase  the  already  enormous 
size  of  his  swollen  member.  “I  am  going  to 
thrust  back  your  escaping  soul”,  he  added, 
poking  me  more  and  more  violently.  His 
sword  pierced  yet  deeper  into  the  quick.  Re- 
doubling his  delicious  blows,  he  filled  me  with 
transports  of  pleasure, — working  so  force- 
fully that,  albeit  he  could  not  get  his  whole 
body  into  me,  he  impregnated  me  with  all  his 
passion,  all  his  lascivious  desires,  his  very 
thoughts,  his  whole  delirious  soul  by  his  vol- 
uptuous embraces.  At  last  feeling  the  ap- 
proach of  the  ecstasy  and  the  boiling  over  of 
the  liquid,  he  slips  his  hands  under  my  but- 
tocks, and  lifts  me  up  bodily.  I do  my  part; 
I twine  my  arms  closely  round  his  form,  my 
thighs  and  legs  being  at  the  same  time  inter- 
twisted and  entangled  with  his,  so  that  I found 
myself  suspended  on  his  neck  in  the  air,  lifted 
clean  off  the  ground ; I was  thus  hanging,  as 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


37 


it  were,  fixed  on  a peg.  I had  not  the  patience 
to  wait  for  him,  as  he  was  going  on,  and  again 
I swooned  with  pleasure.  In  the  most  violent 
raptures  I could  not  help  crying  out — “I  feel 
all...  I feel  all  the  delights  of  Juno  lying  with 
Jupiter.  I am  in  heaven.”  At  this  moment 
La  Tour,  pushed  by  Venus  and  Cupido  to  the 
acme  of  voluptuousness,  poured  a plenteous 
flood  of  his  well  into  the  genial  hold,  burn- 
ing like  fire.  The  creeper  does  not  cling  more 
closely  round  the  walnut  tree  than  I hold  fast 
to  La  Tour  with  my  arms  and  legs”  (Dial. 

VI). 

As  to  the  last  manner  by  means  of  which 
copulation  may  be  achieved,  the  man  stand- 
ing with  the  woman  half  lifted  up,  Conrad 
practises  it  with  slight  modifications. 

(Tullia  speaking) : “He  opened  my 
thighs — I do  not  dislike  Conrad,  though  I am 
not  particularly  partial  to  him.  I neither  con- 
sented, nor  refused.  As  to  him,  he  fancied  a 
novel  posture,  and  not  at  all  a bad  one.  I was 
lying  on  my  back;  he  raised  my  right  thigh 
on  his  shoulder,  and  in  this  position  he  trans- 
fixed me,  while  I was  awaiting  the  event, 
without  greatly  desiring  it.  He  had  at  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


38 


THE  MANUAL 


same  time  extended  my  left  thigh  along  his 
right  thigh.  His  tool  plunged  into  the  root, 
he  began  to  push  and  poke,  quicker  and 
quicker.  What  need  to  say  more?  Picture  the 
conclusion  for  yourself”  (Dial.  VI). 

Last  of  all,  a man  can  get  into  a woman 
turning  her  back  to  him  after  the  manner  of 
the  quadrupeds,  who  can  have  no  connection 
with  their  females  otherwise  than  by  mount- 
ing upon  them  from  behind  (14).  Some  au- 
thorities have  held  that  a woman  conceives 
easier  while  on  all  fours.  Lucretius  says: 

“....Women  are  said  to  conceive  more  read- 
ily when  down  after  the  manner  of  beasts,  as 
the  organs  can  absorb  the  seed  best  so,  when 
the  bosom  is  depressed  and  the  loins  lifted” 
(Of  the  Nature  of  Things,  IV,  W.  1259- 
1262). 

Also  Aloysia  Sigaea: 

“Some  people  pretend  that  the  fashion  to 
make  love  indicated  by  Nature  is  that  one 
where  the  woman  offers  herself  for  copulation 
after  the  manner  of  the  animals,  bent  down 
with  the  hips  raised;  the  virile  ploughshare 


(14)  Pliny  has  treated  this  at  great  length  in  his 
Natural  History  (Book  X,  ch.  63). 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


39 


penetrates  thus  more  conveniently  into  the  fe- 
male furrow,  and  the  seminal  flow  waters  the 
field  of  love...  The  doctors,  however,  are 
against  this  posture;  they  say  it  is  incompat- 
ible with  the  conformation  of  the  parts 
destined  for  generation”.  (Dial.  VI.) 

However  this  may  be,  it  happens  frequent- 
ly, that  women  cannot  be  managed  in  any 
other  way.  Given  an  obese  man  and  a woman 
likewise  obese  or  with  child,  how  are  they  to 
do  the  thing  otherwise?  This  is  the  reason 
why,  so  they  say,  Augustus  having  married 
Livia  Drusilla,  divorced  wife  of  Tiberius 
Nero  and  already  six  months  gone  in  preg- 
nancy, had  connection  with  her  after  the  man- 
ner of  animals.  Plate  VII  of  the  Monuments 
de  la  vie  privee  des  douze  Cesars  will  give 
you  an  idea  of  the  posture  assumed  by  both 
of  them.  But  why  should  we  not  give  you 
the  annotations  whereby  the  learned  editor 
has  elucidated  the  plate?  Here  they  are: 

“This  Drusilla  was  the  famous  Livia,  the 
wife  of  Tiberius  Nero,  who  had  been  one  of 
Anthony’s  friends.  Augustus  fell  violently  in 
love  with  her,  and  Tiberius  gave  her  up  to 
him,  although  she  was  at  the  time  six  months 


Digitized  by  Google 


40 


THE  MANUAL 


with  child.  A good  many  jokes  were  made 
about  the  eagerness  of  the  Emperor,  and  one 
day,  while  they  were  all  at  table,  and  Livia 
was  reclining  by  Augustus,  one  of  those  naked 
children,  whom  matrons  used  to  educate  for 
their  pleasures,  going  up  to  Livia  said: 
“What  are  you  doing  here?  yonder  is  your 
husband”,  pointing  to  Nero,  “there  he  is” 
(15).  Soon  afterwards  Livia  was  confined, 
and  the  Romans  said  openly,  that  lucky  peo- 
ple get  children  three  months  after  being 
married,  which  passed  into  a proverb.  One 
historian  says  that  Augustus  was  obliged  to 
caress  his  wife  “after  the  manner  of  beasts” 
on  account  of  her  pregnancy,  and  it  was  to 
this  luxurious  attitude  that  the  cameo  of 
Apollonius,  the  celebrated  gem-cutter  of  the 
time  of  Augustus,  makes  allusion.  True  that 
the  state  in  which  Livia  was  may  have  made 
this  posture  necessary:  but  it  seems  that  it 
was  at  all  times  to  the  taste  of  the  Ancients, 
either  because  they  considered  this  attitude 
favourable  for  procreation,  as  Lucretius 
maintains,  or  because  they  found  it  to  be  a 
refinement  of  voluptuousness.  The  most  ex- 

05)  Compare  Dio  Cassius,  bk.  XLVIII,  ch.  44. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


41 


traordinary  and  least  natural  postures  have 
always  appeared  to  rakes  as  enhancing  the 
pleasure  of  the  conjunction.  But  it  must  be 
admitted  that  imagination  still  outruns  actual 
possibilities.” 

A singular  reason  for  the  necessity  of  en- 
countering a woman  backwards  is  given  by 
Aloysia  Sigaea,  with  her  usual  sagacity: 

“For  pleasure,  one  likes  a vulva  which  is 
not  placed  too  far  back,  so  as  to  be  entirely 
hidden  by  the  thighs;  it  should  not  be  more 
than  nine  or  ten  inches  from  the  navel.  With 
the  greater  number  of  girls  the  pubis  goes  so 
far  down,  that  it  may  easily  be  taken  as  the 
other  way  of  pleasure.  With  such  coition  is 
difficult.  Theodora  Aspilqueta  could  not  be 
deflowered,  till  she  placed  herself  prone  on 
her  stomach,  with  her  kness  drawn  up  to  her 
sides.  Vainly  had  her  husband  tried  to  man- 
age her,  while  lying  on  her  back,  he  only 
lost  his  oil”  (Dialogue  VII). 

Ovid  recommends  this  way  with  women 
who  begin  to  be  wrinkled : 

“Likewise  you,  whose  stomach  Lucina  has 
marked  with  wrinkles,  mount  from  behind, 


Digitized  by  Google 


42 


THE  MANUAL 


like  the  flying  Parthian  with  his  steed”  f Art 
of  Love,  III,  v.  785,  86). 

The  same  advice  also  seems  to  be  given  by 
him  a little  before: 

“Let  them  be  seen  from  behind  whose 
backs  are  sightly”  (v.  774). 

But  besides  necessity,  it  is  a fact  that 
women  are  worked  in  this  way  out  of  mere 
caprice,  variety  offering  the  greatest  pleasure. 
It  is  simply  for  this  reason  that  Tullia  suffers 
Fabrizio  to  do  her  that  way,  in  Aloysia 
Sigaea : 

“As  Aloisio  got  up”  (Tullia  speaks) 
“Fabrizio  makes  ready  for  another  attack. 
His  member  is  swollen  up,  red  and  threaten- 
ing. “I  beg  of  you  “Madam”,  he  says,  “turn 
over  on  your  face.”  I did  as  he  wished. 
When  he  saw  my  buttocks,  whiter  than  ivory 
and  snow,  “How  beautiful  you  are!”  he 
cried.  “But  raise  yourself  on  your  knees 
and  bend  your  head  down.”  I bow  my  head 
and  bosom,  and  lift  my  buttocks.  He  thrust 
his  swift-moving  and  fiery  dart  to  the  bottom 
of  my  vulva,  and  took  one  of  my  nipples  in 
either  hand.  Then  he  began  to  work  in  and 
out,  and  soon  sent  a sweet  rivulet  into  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


43 


cavity  of  Venus.  I also  felt  unspeakable  de- 
light, and  had  nearly  fainted  with  lust.  A 
surprising  quantity  of  seed  secreted  by  Fa- 
brizio’s  loins  filled  and  delighted  me;  a sim- 
ilar flow  of  my  own  exhausted  my  forces.  In 
that  single  assault  I lost  more  vigour  than  in 
the  three  preceding  ones”  (Dialogue  VI) 
(16). 

This  copulation  from  the  back  is  practic- 
able in  another  very  pleasant  fashion,  an  ex- 
cellent reproduction  of  which  can  be  seen 
in  the  Monument  du  culte  secret  des  dames 
romaines,  plate  XXVIII.  A woman  is 
represented  with  her  hands  placed  on  the 
ground,  while  the  lower  part  of  the  body 
is  lifted  up  and  suspended  by  cords;  she  is 
turning  her  back  to  the  man  who  stands. 
This  seems  to  be  much  the  same  position  as 
was  taken  up  by  the  wife  of  the  artisan  Apu- 

( 16)  The  thing  itself  is  very  old ; Aristophanes  alludes 
to  it  in  the  Peace: 

“To  wrestle  on  the  ground,  to  stand  on  all  fours” 
(v.  896). 

And  in  the  Lysistrata: 

“I  will  not  squat  down  like  a lioness  carved  on  a 
knife-handle”  (v.  231). 


Digitized  by  Google 


44 


THE  MANUAL 


leius  speaks  of  in  his  Metamorphoses  (book 
IX),  whom  “bending  over  her,  the  lover 
planed  with  his  adze,  while  she  leant  forward 
over  a cask”.  An  engraving  showing  this  in- 
genious attitude  is  appended  to  the  story  of 
The  Tub  in  the  Contes  et  Nouvelles  en  vers 
of  Jean  de  La  Fontaine,  vol.  II,  p.  21S. 


Digitized  by  Google 


CHAPTER  II 


ON  PEDICATION 

O much  for  copulation  in  the  nor- 
mal way.  We  will  now  discuss 
another  mode  of  pleasure, — that 
due  to  introduction  of  the  member  into  the 
anus.  A man  who  exercises  his  member  in 
the  anus,  be  it  of  a man  or  a woman,  pedi- 
cates;  he  is  called  a pederast,  pedicon, 
drawk  (17),  and  the  other  party,  who  allows 
himself  to  be  invaded  in  that  way,  is  called 
the  patient,  cinaedus,  catamite  (18),  minion, 

(17)  Drawk,  from  — , I work,  execute;  for  dravicus, 
as  cautus  for  cavitus,  lautus  for  lavitus. 

(18)  Catamite  according  to  Festus,  is  the  same  thing 
as  Ganymede,  the  minion  of  Jupiter;  the  Latins,  by  sim- 
ilar corruption  of  words,  pronounced  Proserpina  for 
Persephone,  Aesculapius  for  Asclepios,  Carthago  for 
Carchedo,  Pollux  for  Polydeukes,  Sybilla  for  Siobule, 
masturbare  for  manu  stuprare. 

45 


Digitized  by  Google 


46 


THE  MANUAL 


effeminate ; if  adult  or  worn  out,  he  is  named 
exolete.  The  masculine  pleasure  (so  called 
because  women  allowed  themselves  much 
more  rarely  to  be  pedicated  than  men)  is  ap- 
preciated equally  by  the  active  party,  the 
pedicon,  as  by  the  passive  party,  the  patient. 
The  pleasure  of  the  pedicon  is  easy  to  under- 
stand, as  the  enjoyment  of  the  virile  member 
consists  in  the  intensity  of  the  friction;  the 
pleasure  felt  by  the  patient  by  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  member  in  his  entrails  is  more 
difficult  to  make  out, — at  least  for  my  feeble 
intelligence,  for  such  practices  are  quite 
strange  to  me.  Do  not  believe,  however,  that 
the  pleasure  of  the  patient  is  only  secondary, 
nor  yet  that  he  prostitutes  himself  only  in 
order  to  do  the  same  afterwards  himself,  nor 
that  he  remedies  in  this  way  the  sluggishness 
of  his  own  member  by  the  vigorous  working 
of  another  man’s  nerve  causing  a pleasurable 
titillation  of  the  posterior,  analogous  to  that 
which  Antonius  Panormitanus  ( Hermaphro- 
ditus■,  I,  20),  tells  us  may  be  produced  by 
inserting  the  fingers  in  the  anus  (19),  or  still 

(19)  Thus  Oenothea,  to  exicite  the  lad’s  feeble  nerve, 
pushes  a leathern  mentula  (member)  into  Eucolpius’ 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


47 


better,  by  beating  the  same  locality  with  rods, 
according  to  Aloysia  Sigaea: 

“Amongst  the  men  of  our  acquaintance,  I 
have  heard  the  Marquis  Alfonso  say  that  rods 
act  as  spurs  to  the  amorous  battle;  without 
them  he  would  be  sluggish  and  impotent.  He 
has  his  buttocks  flogged  with  rods  vigorously, 
his  wife  being  present  lying  ready  on  the  bed. 
During  the  flagellation  his  tool  begins  to 
stiffen,  and  the  more  violent  the  strokes  are, 
the  stronger  is  the  tension.  When  he  feels 
himself  in  proper  condition,  he  precipitates 
himself  upon  his  wife,  works  her  with  rapid 
movement,  and  inundates  her  with  the  heav- 
enly gifts  of  Venus  and  wins  all  the  delights 
a man  may  find  in  Love”  (20)  (Dialogue 

V). 


anus  (Petronius,  138)  : “Oenothea  fetches  a leathern  con- 
trivance; this  she  first  oiled  and  sprinkled  with  pepper 
and  crushed  nettle-seeds,  and  then  proceeded  to  push 
little  by  little  up  my  anus.”  We  shall  have  to  speak  in 
chapter  vi.  of  another  use  of  these  leathern  tools. 

(20)  According  to  the  author  of  the  Gynaeology 
(German  edition,  vol.  Ill,  p.  392)  there  are  to  be 
found  at  this  day  in  the  London  brothels  women  who 
make  it  their  business  to  flagellate  customers  who  desire 
it. 


Digitized  by  Google 


48 


THE  MANUAE 


What  else  was  it  but  this  that  so  stirred 
Rousseau,  the  precocious  genius  of  Geneva, 
and  his  boyish  member,  and  brought  such 
ideas  into  his  head,  when  on  one  occasion 
Mile.  Lambercier,  cracking  the  whip  upon 
the  buttocks  of  the  child,  inflicted  that  pun- 
ishment, which  he  afterwards  was  longing  for 
all  the  rest  of  his  life?  Hear  him  relate  the 
circumstance  himself  in  his  merry  way  and 
with  his  habitual  charm  of  style,  in  the  first 
book  of  the  Confessions;  we  only  omit  small 
matters,  added  by  the  immortal  author  for 
the  amplification  of  the  narrative: 

“As  Mile.  Lambercier  had  for  us  the  affec- 
tion of  a mother,  so  she  had  the  authority  of 
one,  and  she  carried  the  latter  so  far  as  to 
inflict  upon  us  the  punishment  of  children 
when  we  had  deserved  it.  For  a long  time 
she  only  used  threats,  and  such  a threat  of  a 
novel  punishment  seemed  very  dreadful  to 
me;  but  after  the  execution  I found  the  expe- 
rience less  terrible  than  the  expectation,  and 
the  oddest  thing  was,  the  punishment  made 
me  more  partial  to  her,  who  had  inflicted  it, 
than  I had  been  previously.  I stood  in  fact 
in  need  of  all  this  affection  for  her  and  of  all 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


49 


my  natural  mildness,  in  order  to  hold  back 
from  provoking  the  same  punishment  by  act- 
ing so  as  to  deserve  it,  for  I had  found  in  the 
pain,  and  even  in  the  shame,  a mixed  feeling, 
in  which  sensuality  predominated,  and  which 
left  me  with  more  desire  than  apprehension 
of  experiencing  the  same  treatment  over 
again  from  the  same  hand.  Who  would  be- 
lieve that  this  chastisement  of  a child  eight 
years  old  by  the  hand  of  a maiden  of  thirty 
should  have  influenced  my  tastes,  my  long- 
ings, my  passions  for  the  remainder  of  my 
life?  Tormented  by  I know  not  what,  my 
eye  feasted  ardently  upon  good-looking 
females;  they  constantly  came  into  my  mind 
doing  to  me  as  Mile.  Lambercier  had  done. 
Imagining  only  what  I had  experienced,  my 
desires  did  not  pass  beyond  the  sort  of  volup- 
tuous feeling  I had  known  already.  In  my 
foolish  fancies,  in  my  erotic  fury,  in  the  ex- 
travagant acts  to  which  they  incited  me  some- 
times, I borrowed  in  imagination  the  help  of 
the  other  sex,  without  ever  dreaming  it  was 
good  for  any  other  use  than  that  which  I 
wanted  to  make  of  it.  When  in  the  course  of 
time  I had  grown  up  to  manhood,  my  old  taste 


Digitized  by  Google 


50 


THE  MANUAL 


of  childhood  associated  itself  so  much  with 
the  other,  that  I never  could  divert  the  desires 
which  fired  my  senses;  and  this  absurdity, 
joined  to  my  natural  timidity,  made  me  al- 
ways anything  but  enterprising  with  women, 
as  I dared  not  say  all  or  could  not  do  all  I 
wanted;  the  sort  of  enjoyment,  of  which  the 
other  was  for  me  but  the  last  stage,  could 
neither  be  initiated  by  the  one  who  longed 
for  it,  nor  guessed  by  the  other  who  might 
have  granted  it.  Thus  I have  passed  through 
life  coveting,  yet  not  daring  to  tell  the  persons 
I loved  most  what  it  was  I coveted.  Never 
bold  enough  to  declare  my  inclination,  I 
amused  it  as  least  by  ideas  in  connection  with 
it.  One  may  judge  what  such  avowals  must 
have  cost  me,  considering  that  all  through  my 
life,  seized  in  the  presence  of  those  I loved  by 
the  fury  of  a passion  which  bereft  me  of  voice, 
hearing  and  sense,  and  made  me  tremble  all 
over  convulsively,  I never  could  venture  to  tell 
them  my  folly,  and  ask  them  to  add  the  one 
familiarity  which  I wanted  to  the  other  ones. 

I only  got  to  it  once  in  my  childhood,  with  an- 
other child  of  my  age,  and  the  proposal  came 
from  her.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


51 


However  to  return  to  our  proper  subject, 
from  which  we  have  strayed.  If  pleasure  felt 
by  the  passive  party  cannot  be  conceived  to  be 
of  a kind,  which  through  the  anus  is  communi- 
cated to  the  mentula  (member),  we  must  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  the  patient  experiences 
in  the  anus  the  same  kind  of  irritation  which 
the  other  party  feels  in  his  genital  parts;  that, 
therefore,  the  patient  feels  in  that  place  a real 
pleasure  unknown  to  those  who  have  not  tried 
it  (21).  Martial  at  any  rate  speaks  out  with- 
out any  circumlocution  of  this  rut  of  the  anus: 

“Of  his  anus,  split  to  the  naval,  not  a vestige 
is  left  to  Carinus;  for  all  that  he  is  in  rut  to  the 
very  navel.  Oh!  the  scurvy  lot  of  the  wretch! 
Bottom  he  has  none, — but  he  will  be  a ci- 
nede”  (VI,  37). 

An  ardour  of  this  strange  sort  even  affected 
Tullia,  as  she  confesses  herself  in  the  pages  of 
Aloysia  Sigaea: 

“Seeing  resistance  was  in  vain,  I yielded  to 


(21)  In  order  to  appease  the  ardours  of  the  anus,  the 
Siphnians  (Siphnos,  one  of  the  Cyclades)  were  in  the 
habit  of  introducing  a finger  up  the  anus.  The  Greeks 
called  this  proceeding  to  siphnianize.  Suidas:  Siphnian- 
ize,— to  finger  the  posterior. 


Digitized  by  Google 


52 


THE  MANUAL 


the  madmen.  Aloysio  bends  forward  over  my 
buttocks,  brings  his  javelin  to  the  back-door, 
knocks,  pushes,  finally  with  a mighty  effort 
bursts  in.  I gave  a groan.  Instantly  he  with- 
draws his  weapon  from  the  wound,  plunges  it 
in  the  vulva  and  spurts  a flood  of  semen  into 
the  wanton  furrow  of  my  womb.  When  all 
was  over,  Fabrizio  attacks  me  in  the  same 
fashion.  With  one  rapid  thrust  he  introduced 
his  spear,  and  in  less  than  no  time  made  it  dis- 
appear in  my  entrails;  for  a little  time  he  plays 
at  come  and  go,  and  scarce  credible  as  it  may 
sound,  I found  myself  invaded  by  a prurient 
fury  to  such  an  extent  that  I have  no  doubt, 
that  I should  get  accustomed  to  it  very  well,  if 
I chose”  (Dialogue  VI). 

Coelius  Rhodiginus  confirms  this  pruriency 
of  the  anus  in  chap.  10.  of  XV.  book  of  his 
Lectiones  antiquae. 

“We  know”,  he  says,  “that  the  minions  ex- 
perience a very  great  pleasure  in  undergoing 
this  shameful  act”. 

And  he  gives  a reason  for  it,  whether  good 
or  bad  the  doctors  may  decide:  “With  people 
whose  seminal  ducts  are  not  in  normal  condi- 
tion, be  it  that  those  leading  to  the  mentula  are 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


53 


paralysed,  as  is  the  case  with  eunuchs  and  the 
like,  or  for  any  other  reason,  the  seminal  fluid 
flows  back  to  its  source.  If  this  fluid  is  very 
abundant  with  them,  it  accumulates  in  great 
quantities,  and  then  the  part  where  the  secre- 
tion is  accumulated  longs  for  friction.  People 
thus  situated  like  above  everything  to  play  the 
part  of  patients .” 

Be  this  as  it  may,  nothing  is  more  certain 
than  the  fact  of  such  enjoyment  on  the  part  of 
the  patient.  So  highly  did  the  Roman  cinedes 
prize  a stiff  member  between  their  buttocks, 
that  they  could  not  see  a big  mentula  without 
their  mouths  watering;  they  were  ready  to 
give  their  last  penny  to  enjoy  the  favours  of  a 
man  extraordinarily  gifted  in  that  way. 

Juvenal,  IX,  v.  32-36: 

“Destiny  governs  man;  it  influences  the 
parts,  which  the  toga  covers.  If  your  star 
pales,  useless  will  be  the  length  and  strength 
of  your  member  to  you, — even  though  Virro 
shall  have  seen  you  naked  with  lips  that 
water.” 

Martial,  I,  97 : 

“He  wants  to  know  why  I think  he  is  a mi- 
nion? We  bathe  together;  he  never  raises  his 


Digitized  by  Google 


54 


THE  MANUAL 


eyes,  but  gazes  with  devouring  looks  at  the 
sodomites;  and  cannot  behold  their  members 
without  his  lips  trembling.” 

And  again,  II,  51 : 

“Oftentimes  you  have  no  more  than  a sin- 
gle penny  in  your  box,  and  that  penny  more 
worn  than  your  anus,  Hyllus ; yet  neither  bak- 
er nor  wine  shop  will  have  it,  but  some  man 
who  sports  an  enormous  member.  Your  un- 
fortunate belly  must  starve  for  your  anus; 
while  the  latter  devours,  the  former  is  fam- 
ished.” 

It  is  therefore  not  astonishing  that  the  pub- 
lic baths  resounded  with  plaudits,  when  men 
with  extraordinary  members  entered  them. 

Martial,  IX,  34: 

“If  you  hear  clapping  of  hands  in  the  bath- 
ing hall,  Flaccus,  you  may  be  sure  some  de- 
formed person’s  enormous  member  is  there.” 

Juvenal,  VI,  v.  373,  374: 

“Far  seen,  pointed  at  by  all  men’s  fingers, 
he  enters  the  baths.” 

It  was  not  without  some  art  that  the  patients 
performed  their  functions.  But  their  business 
was  made  up  of  these  two  chief  requirements: 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


55 


depilation  and  knowing  how  to  use  the 
haunches. 

Patients  took  care  in  the  first  place  to  re- 
move the  hair  carefully  from  all  parts  of  their 
body  (22) ; from  the  lips,  arms,  chest,  legs,  the 
virile  parts,  and  in  particular  from  the  altar 
of  passive  lust,  the  anus:  Martial,  II,  62: 

“Pluck  out  the  hair  from  breast  and  legs 
and  arms;  keep  your  member  cropped  and 
ringed  with  short  hair;  all  this,  we  know,  you 
do  for  your  mistress’  sake,  Labienus.  But  for 
whom  do  you  depilate  your  posteriors?” 

And  IX,  28: 

“While  you,  Chrestus,  appear  thus  with 
your  parts  all  hairless,  with  a mentula  like  a 
vulture’s  neck,  and  a head  as  shining  as  a pros- 
titute’s buttocks  with  never  a hair  appearing 
on  your  leg,  and  with  your  pallid  lips  all  shorn 

((22)  Always,  however,  excepting  the  head,  for  they 
took  great  care  of  their  head  of  hair.  Horace,  Ode  X, 
book  IV.,  says  to  Ligurinus : 

“When  those  curls  are  gone,  that  now  descend  to 
your  shoulders...”. 

And  (Epode  XI,  v.  40-43):  “Nothing”,  he  says, 
"will  take  away  his  love  for  Lycisus,  save  another  love 
for  a plump  youth,  tying  up  his  long  hair.”  In  the  same 
sense  Martial  speaks  of  Capillati  (III,  58;  II,  57),  and 
of  Comati  (XII,  99). 


Digitized  by  Google 


56 


THE  MANUAL 


and  bare,  you  talk  of  Curius,  Camillus, 
Numa,  Ancus,  of  all  the  hairy  heroes  we  have 
ever  read  of  in  history,  and  spout  big  words 
and  threatenings  against  theatres  and  the 
times.  Let  but  some  big-limbed  man  come 
into  sight,  you  call  him  with  a nod,  and  take 
him  off. . . ” 

And  he  says,  IX,  58 : 

“Nought  is  worse  worn  than  Hedylus’  rags, 
save  one  thing  only  (he  cannot  deny  it  him- 
self), his  anus; — this  is  worse  worn  than  his 
rags.” 

In  a similar  way  he  has  spoken  before  of  the 
anus  of  Hyllus  as  more  worn  by  friction  than 
a poor  man’s  last  penny  (II,  51),  and  Sueton- 
ius ( Life  of  Otho,  ch,  xii)  speaks  similarly  of 
the  body  of  Otho,  given  to  the  habits  of  a cat- 
amite, and  Catullus  (Carm.  33)  reproaches 
the  younger  Vibennius:  “You  could  not  sell 
your  hairy  buttocks  for  a doit”. 

For  the  same  reason  Galba  requested  Icelus 
to  get  depilated  before  he  was  to  take  him 
aside.  Suetonius,  Galba,  ch.  xxii : 

“He  was  very  much  given  to  the  intercourse 
between  men,  and  amongst  such  he  preferred 
men  of  ripe  age,  exolets.  It  is  said  that  when 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


57 


Icelus,  one  of  his  old  bedfellows,  came  to 
Spain,  to  inform  him  of  Nero’s  death,  he,  not 
content  with  kissing  him  closely  before  every- 
one present,  asked  him  to  get  at  once  depilated, 
and  then  took  him  aside  with  him  quite 
alone.” 

Moreover  even  those  depilated  their  anus, 
who  by  dint  of  a rough  head  of  hair  and  a 
bristly  beard,  tried  hard  to  simulate  the  grav- 
ity of  the  ancient  Philosophers.  Martial,  IX, 
48: 

“Democritus  and  Zeno  and  ambiguous 
Plato, — all  the  sages  whose  portraits  we  see 
decked  with  bristling  hair,  — you  prate  of; 
you  might  well  be  Pythagoras’  heir  and  suc- 
cessor; while  from  your  own  chin  hangs  no 
less  imposing  a beard.  But  as  bearded  man  it 
is  a shame  for  you  to  receive  a rigid  member 
between  your  smooth  posteriors.” 

Juvenal,  II,  v.  8-13: 

“Put  not  your  trust  in  faces;  everywhere  is 
debauchery  rampant!  Thou  wouldst  whip  the 
vicious;  Thou!  thou! — the  most  notorious  of 
all  Socratic  minions!  Hair-covered  limbs  and 
coarse  hair  along  the  arms  bespeak  a fiery 
soul ; but  on  your  smooth  anus  the  surgeon  cuts 


Digitized  by  Google 


58 


THE  MANUAL 


away  the  swollen  tumours,  a grin  on  his  face 
the  while.” 

Persius,  IV,  v.  37,  38: 

“Tell  me,  when  you  comb  a scented  beard 
upon  your  cheeks,  why  does  a shaven  member 
stand  forth  from  your  groin?” 

This  is  why  Martial  (VI,  56)  advised  Cha- 
ridemus  to  get  his  buttocks  depilated,  so  that 
he  might  be  taken  for  a patient  rather  than 
for  a fellator: 

“Because  you  thighs  bristle  with  coarse 
hair,  and  your  chest  is  shaggy,  you  think,  Cha- 
ridemus,  to  leave  your  words  to  posterity. 

“Take  my  word,  and  pluck  out  the  hairs  all 
over  your  body,  and  get  it  certified  you  depi- 
late your  buttocks.  What  for?  you  ask.  You 
know  they  tell  many  tales  about  you;  make 
them  believe,  Charidemus,  that  you  are  acting 
the  patient.'’’ 

It  was  not  patients  only  that  had  themselves 
depilated;  men  leading  an  idle,  careless  life 
followed  the  same  practice  (23). 

(23)  To  depilate  one’s  armpits  was,  however  consid- 
ered as  being  necessary  to  the  cleanliness  of  the  body: 
"One  man  keeps  himself  tidy,  another  neglects  himself 
more  than  is  right ; one  man  depilates  his  legs,  another 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


59 


“To  be  depilated,  to  have  the  hair  dressed 
in  tiers  of  ringlets,  to  tipple  to  excess  in  the 
baths, — these  practices  prevail  in  the  city;  still 
they  cannot  be  said  to  be  customary,  for  noth- 
ing of  all  this  is  exempt  from  blame”  (Quin- 
tilian, Instit.  orat.,  I,  6). 

It  is  rather  surprising  that  the  same  Quintil- 
ian, whose  bile  is  stirred  by  curled  hair,  has 
let  it  pass  by  patiently,  that  women  should 
bathe  together  with  men: 

“If  it  is  a sure  sign  of  adultery  for  a woman 
to  bathe  with  men,  why!  it  will  be  adultery  to 
dine  with  young  friends  of  the  male  sex,  to 
have  a male  friend.  You  might  as  reasonably 
say  a depilated  body,  a languid  gait,  a woman- 
ish robe,  are  certain  signs  of  effeminacy,  of 
want  of  virility;  for  such  will  seem  to  many 
to  reveal  immorality  of  character”  {Ibid.,  V, 

9). 

Martial  (11,39)  has  also  noticed,  and  not 
once  only,  the  habits  of  those  men  who  prac- 
tised feminine  arts  of  the  toilette,  and  looked 
just  as  if  they  had  come  out  of  a band-box: 
“Rufus,  see  you  that  man  there  on  the  first 

does  not  depilate  even  his  armpits.”  (Seneca,  letter 
CXIV.) 


Digitized  by  Google 


60 


THE  MANUAL 


benches . . . whose  oiled  curls  exhale  the  whole 
shop  of  Marcelianus,  and  whose  polished  arms 
shine  without  a hair  to  be  seen?” 

Again,  he  says,  V,  62: 

. . Who  is  this  Crispulus,  who  has  legs 
undisfigured  by  a single  hair?” 

Even  the  great  Caesar  did  not  disdain  this 
coquetry,  Suetonius,  ch.  45 : 

“He  took  too  much  care  of  his  appearance, 
to  the  point  of  not  only  having  his  beard  re- 
moved with  nippers,  and  shaved  with  a razor, 
but  even  of  being  depilated,  for  which  things 
he  was  blamed.” 

This  custom  is  connected  with  those  Sam- 
nite vases,  filled  with  rosin  and  pitch  to  be 
heated  for  depilation,  and  for  softening  the 
pitch,  found  amongst  the  properties  of  Corn- 
modus,  and  which  by  the  orders  of  Pertinax 
were  sold  by  public  auction.  Julius  Capitoli- 
nus speaks  of  them  ( Pertinax , 8).  For  remov- 
ing the  hair  there  were  used  in  fact  either 
tweezers  or  an  unguent  called  dropax  or  psi- 
lothrum. Martial  mentions  the  use  of  tweez- 
ers in  the  Epigram  (IX,  28)  quoted  before; 
of  dropax  or  psilothrum  he  speaks  in  Book 
III,  74: 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOIDGY 


61 


“You  depilate  your  face  with  psilothrum 
and  your  head  with  dropax.” 

And  again  VI,  93 : 

“She  revives  her  youth  with  psilothrum.” 
And  X,  65: 

“You  rub  yourself  every  day  with  dropax.” 
The  dropax  or  psilothrum  was  obtained  by 
melting  rosin  in  oil  (Pliny,  Natural  History, 
XIV  20)  : 

“Rosin  dissolves  in  oil,  and  I am  ashamed  to 
say,  that  the  most  honest  use  made  of  this  mix- 
ture is  to  serve  people  as  a depilatory.” 

Aetius  also  mentions  it  in  Book  III,  ch.  cxc, 
of  his  Opus  Medicum  '. 

“The  simplest  dropax  is  the  one  called 
pitchplaster.  Dry  pitch  is  diluted  with  oil;  it 
is  applied  hot  to  the  skin,  which  must  first  be 
cleanly  shaved,  under  which  circumstances  it 
adheres  closely.  Before  the  plaster  is  quite 
cold,  it  is  taken  off,  warmed  again,  and  put  on 
afresh ; again  it  is  removed  before  being  cold, 
and  this  process  is  repeated  several  times.” 
Hence  Juvenal’s,  “Youthfulness  by  pitch”, 
(VIII,  114),  and 

“The  thighs  neglected  and  dirty  with  tufts 
of  hair”  of  Naevolus,  to  whom  he  says: 


Digitized  by  Google 


62 


THE  MANUAL 


“Your  skin  has  none  of  the  gloss,  that  of  old 
the  well-smeared  plaster  of  hot  pitch  gave  it” 
(Sat.  IX,  13-15). 

What  else  does  Martial,  mean  when  (III, 
74),  he  speaks  of  “Gargilanus’  nails, — that 
cannot  be  trimmed  with  pitch?” 

Persius  (IV,  37-41)  has,  I presume,  joined 
together  both  modes  of  depilation: 

“Tell  me,  when  you  comb  a scented  beard 
upon  your  cheeks,  why  does  a shaven  member 
stand  forth  from  your  groin?  Though  five 
strong  men  weed  your  plantation  and  work 
your  parboiled  buttocks  with  the  hooked 
tweezers,  I tell  you  there  is  no  plough  will 
tame  that  stubborn  field !” 

Here  forceps  is  the  same  thing  as  volsella 
(tweezers) ; while  the  “parboiled  buttocks” 
would  seem  to  refer  to  the  hot  dropax.  After 
the  application  of  such  a plaster  the  skin 
could  not  but  have  a boiled  look. 

Ausonius  ( Epigr . CXXXI.)  alludes  to  this 
passage  of  Persius : 

“The  reason  you  smooth  your  groin  with 
hot  dropax  is  that  a skin  soft  and  smooth  en- 
tices the  whores,  plucked  smooth  themselves. 
But  that  you  pluck  out  the  herbage  from  your 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


63 


parboiled  bottom,  and  polish  up  with  pumice 
your  battered  Clazomenae,  what  means  this, — 
if  not  that  the  vice  of  man  with  man  works  in 
you,  and  you  are  a woman  behind,  a man  in 
front.” 

The  Clazomenae  are  without  a doubt  the 
man’s  buttock,  limp  and  cracked,  as  those  of 
patients  will  be,  as  those  of  Carinus  were, 
whom  Martial  (XI,  37)  blames  for  “his  lac- 
erated anus”.  Ausonius  calls  them  so  from 
the  Greek,  in  Latin  “frango”  (I  break),  thus 
playing  with  the  name  of  a city.  Gonzalvo  the 
Cordevan  makes  a similar  pun,  when,  desiring 
to  pedicate,  he  says,  he  wishes  to  go  to  Aver- 
sa; also  when  he  wishes  to  irrumate  the  mouth, 
he  says:  “I  go  to  the  Orient”,  or  when  he  is 
about  to  lick  the  vulva,  in  Latin  ligurire , “I 
go  to  Liguria”.  By  calling  the  Clazomenae 
hammered  (battered)  Ausonius  means  to  im- 
ply that  they  were  as  if  polished  with  a ham- 
mer, by  having  served  as  an  anvil.  It  is  as  if 
my  fellow-countrymen  were  to  say  in  joke  of 
a bald  man  (in  German  Kahl),  “he  scratches 
his  polished  Kehl”.  What  could  be  clearer  or 
wittier?  Forcellini  is  therefore  wrong  in  say- 
ing this  passage  of  Ausonius  has  no  sense. 


Digitized  by  Google 


64 


THE  MANUAL 


Other  editors  have  inclusas  instead  of  incusas , 
indicating  the  fissure  which  separates  the  but- 
tocks, by  the  rotundities  of  which  it  is  on  both 
sides  closed  in.  But  in  the  first  place  the  Cla- 
zomenae may  well  be  the  buttocks,  they  being 
cleft,  though  not  indeed  themselves  a cleft;  in 
the  second  place,  who  could  imagine  this  mis- 
erable man  depilated  the  cleft  of  the  buttocks 
rather  than  the  buttocks  themselves? 

Some  persons,  by  a refinement  of  luxury, 
employed  women  to  depilate  them.  Such  wo- 
men called  themselves  ustriculae  (from  urere, 
to  burn),  as  they  made  use  of  a sticky  plaster 
of  boiling  dropax  to  burn  the  hair  on  the  legs 
and  other  parts  of  the  body.  Tertullian  ( De 
Pallio,  ch.  4),  says:  “So  effeminate  as  to  em- 
ploy ustriculae" ; while  Salmasius,  comment- 
ing playfully  on  the  passage,  p.  284,  declares : 
Once  upon  a time  ustriculae  served  to  depi- 
late the  legs;  now  they  serve  to  harass  our 
minds.”  Augustus,  who  according  to  Sueton- 
ius, “was  in  the  habit  of  singeing  his  legs  with 
burning  nutshells,  to  make  the  hair  grow  more 
silky”  ( Augustus , ch.  68),  no  doubt  made  use 
of  the  nimble  hands  of  these  ustriculae. 

Women  likewise  resorted  to  depilation 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


65 


(24),  looking  upon  the  fleece  of  the  pubis  as 
something  disgusting.  Martial: 


(24)  The  Greeks  did  not  disdain  this  strange  prac- 
tice any  more  than  the  Romans.  Aristophanes,  in  the 
Lysistrata  (v.  89). 

“My  affair  will  be  tidy  with  the  couchgrass  pluck’d 
off.”  In  the  “Frogs”  he  speaks  of  dancing  girls  barely 
arrived  at  puberty  beginning  to  tear  off  the  fur”  (v. 
519)  ; in  the  Thesmophoriazusae  again  there  is  men- 
tioned “a  mans  Veneris  plucked  clean”  (v.  719).  That 
the  Greeks  preferred  a bare  pubis  to  a furred  one,  though 
we  may  be  of  a different  opinion,  is  apparent  from  an- 
other passage  of  Aristophanes,  in  the  Lysistrata,  v.  151, 
2,  where  a smooth  pubis  is  represented  as  a chief  incite- 
ment to  virile  ardour: 

"If  we  were  to  go  naked  with  a smooth  pubis,  our 
husband’s  members  would  stand,  and  they  would  be 
fain  to  have  us.” 

As  to  old  women,  they  likewise  denuded  their  pubis 
of  the  bristles  in  order  to  appear  less  decrepit.  Martial, 
X,  90. 

“Ligella,  do  you  pluck  your  old  affair,  and  stir  the 
ashes  of  your  burnt-out  fire? 

Refinements  such  as  those  are  for  young  maidens;  you 
are  in  error  if  you  think  that  thing  a vulva  that  a man’s 
member  will  no  longer  recognize”. 

The  depilation  of  the  vulva  was  also  used  as  a pun- 
ishment. 

Aristophanes,  Tesmophoriazusae,  545,  6. 

“We  will  pluck  her  pubis,  and  teach  her  so,  woman 
as  she  is,  not  to  speak  ill  of  women.” 

The  same  punishment  was  inflicted  upon  adulterous 
women  taken  in  the  act ; a black  radish  or  a mullet  was 
introduced  into  her  anus,  which  was  then  depilated,  as 


Digitized  by  Google 


66 


THE  MANUAL 


. Nor  yet  one  of  your  mother’s  pots  full 
of  foul  rosin,  such  as  the  women  of  the  outer 
suburbs  use  to  depilate  themselves  withal” 
(XII,  32). 

As  men  employed  women  to  free  them  of 
hair,  so  women  offered  their  pubis  without 
shame  to  men  for  the  same  office.  Pliny’s  bile 
rises  at  this  (Nat.  Hist.,  XXIX,  8)  : “Women 
are  not  afraid  to  show  their  pubis.  It  is  but  too 
true,  nothing  corrupts  manners  more  than  the 
art  of  the  medical  man.” 

The  emperors  themselves  condescended  to 
undertake  this  office  for  their  concubines. 
Sutonius,  Domitian,  ch.  22: 

“It  was  rumoured,  that  he  was  fond  of  dep- 
ilating his  concubines  himself,  and  would 
bathe  amid  a crowd  of  the  most  infamous 
courtezans.” 

Lampridius,  Heliogabalus,  chap.  31: 

“In  his  baths  he  was  always  together  with 
the  women,  and  he  made  their  toilets  with 
psilothrum:  he  used  psilothrum  likewise  for 
his  beard,  and,  disgusting  to  relate,  the  same 
which  the  women  had  just  been  using.  With 

well  as  her  pubis,  with  burning  cinders.  Aristophanes, 
Clouds,  1079: 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


67 


his  own  hand  he  shaved  off  the  fleece  from 
the  virile  part  of  his  pedicons,  and  then 
shaved  his  own  beard.” 

What  Lampridius  finds  so  repugnant,  is 
that  the  emperor  did  not  hesitate  to  use  upon 
his  beard  the  same  ointment,  which  the  wo- 
men had  just  been  applying  as  a plaster  upon 
the  pubis,  and  which  he  used  at  once  and  be- 
fore the  bad  smell  had  evaporated. 

But  to  return  to  our  patients,  they  also  were 
not  in  want  of  illustrious  lovers,  who  took 
care  to  depilate  them;  an  example  of  this  we 
find  in  the  emperor  Hadrian,  according  to 
Spartianus,  who  says,  ch.  4: 

“That  he  corrupted  the  freedmen  of  Trajan, 
made  the  toilet  of  his  minions,  and  often  dep- 
ilated them,  while  he  was  attached  to  the 
Court,  is  generally  believed.” 

In  what  other  way  can  we  believe  Hadrian 
to  have  made  the  toilet  of  these  minions,  if  not 
in  the  same  way  in  which  Heliogabalus  made 

“What,  must  you  suffer  the  empalement  with  the  ra- 
dish, and  the  hot  cinders?” 

Suetonius,  under  the  word : “Thus  they 

treated  adulteresses  who  had  been  caught  in  the  act: 
they  took  black  radishes  and  planted  them  in  their  anus, 
which  they  rubbed  with  hot  cinders,  after  having  torn 
out  the  hair.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


68 


THE  MANUAL 


the  toilet  of  his  females,  with  psilothrum,  par- 
ticularly as  it  is  added  that  he  depilated  them 
frequently?  We  may  take  it  for  granted  that 
he  used  that  ointment,  or  that  he  rubbed  their 
faces  with  moistened  bread,  either  to  improve 
their  skin  or  to  hinder  the  beard  growing  too 
soon.  Suetonius,  Otho,  ch.  12: 

“He  shaved  his  face  every  day,  and  rubbed 
it  with  damp  bread,  a habit  which  he  had 
contracted  when  the  first  down  began  to  ap- 
pear, so  as  not  to  get  bearded.” 

Juvenal  (11,107),  has  aimed  an  arrow  of 
the  same  sort  at  Otho : 

“It  surely  is  the  duty  of  a mighty  Captain 
....  to  keep  his  skin  right  smooth  ....  and 
knead  bread  with  his  fingers  to  make  a plaster 
for  his  face.” 

What  wonder  then  if  the  women  cherished 
similar  artifices?  Who  can  help  thinking  of 
the  woman  depicted  with  such  marvellous  art 
by  Juvenal,  from  verse  460  to  verse  472  of  that 
Sixth  Satire,  to  which  Salmasius  gave  the  epi- 
thet, of  “divine”?  “Her  face  is  all  puffy  with 
bread  crumbs,  where  the  lips  of  the  poor  hus- 
band keep  sticking”,  to  such  an  extent,  that 
one  doubts: 


Digitized  by  G 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


69 


“ Whether  her  countenance,  plastered 

and  massaged  with  so  many  preparations, 
overlaid  with  poultices  of  boiled  and  moist- 
ened flour,  should  be  called  a face  at  all, — or  a 
sore. . . At  last  she  peels  her  face,  removes  the 
outermost  layers.  For  the  first  time  she  may 
be  recognizd  for  herself.  Then  she  treats  her 
skin  with  asses’  milk,  for  which  she  drags 
about  in  her  train  a herd  of  asses, — and  would 
take  them  with  her,  if  she  were  exiled  to  the 
North  Pole.” 

For  painting  the  face  it  seems  that  a coat- 
ing of  chalk  was  used,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
Pederast  mentioned  in  Petronius,  who  per- 
spired so  violently  in  working  vainly  the  groin 
of  Eucolpus: 

“From  his  perspiring  forehead  flowed  rivu- 
lets of  acacia  juice,  and  in  the  wrinkles  of  his 
cheeks  there  was  such  a mass  of  chalk  that  you 
might  have  believed  you  saw  a wall  exposed 
to  the  wind  and  washed  by  the  rain”  ( Satyri - 
con,  ch.  23) . 

But  let  us  leave  all  these  nasty  preparations, 
before  we  find  ourselves  stuck  fast  in  them. 

We  have  said  that  another  branch  of  this 
business,  on  the  part  of  the  patient,  consists  in 


Digitized  by  Google 


70 


THE  MANUAL 


cevere.  A patient  cevet,  who  during  the  action 
wriggles  and  moves  his  haunches  up  and 
down,  so  as  to  enjoy  more  pleasure  himself 
and  give  more  pleasure  to  the  pedicon.  Wo- 
men, doing  the  same  in  copulation,  are  said  to 
crissare.  Martial,  III,  95: 

“Nay!  you  pedicate  finely,  Naevolus;  you 
ply  your  haunches  right  well.” 

Juvenal,  II,  20-23 : 

. . Virtue  on  their  lips,  they  ply  their  but- 
tocks.— ‘Shall  I honour  you,  in  the  act  of  your 
back-play,  Sextus?’  says  the  infamous  Varil- 
lus . . . ” 

The  same  author,  IX,  40: 

“With  calculated  art  moves  his  haunches.” 
Plautus,  in  the  Pseudolus,  III,  75: 

“Soon  as  ever  the  fellow  cowers  down,  ply 
your  haunches  in  time  to  him.” 

For  this  reason  some  authorities  hold,  I do 
not  know  whether  rightly  or  wrongly,  the 
word  cinede  to  come  from  the  fact  that  the 
wretches  known  by  that  name  are  in  the  habit 
of  wriggling  the  private  parts.  Undoubtedly 
the  suppleness  of  the  thighs,  the  agility  of  the 
buttocks  are  counted  almongst  the  particular 
talents  of  cinedes  in  Petronius,  ch.  23: 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


71 


Enter  a Cinede  reciting  these  verses: 

“Hither,  come  hither,  cinede  wantons, — 
stretch  the  foot  and  take  your  course,  fly  with 
soles  in  the  air,  with  supple  thighs,  and  nimble 
buttocks,  and  libertine  hands,  — all  ye  old, 
emasculated  minions  of  Delos,  cornel” 

To  this  subject  also  refers  Epig.  XXXVI 
of  the  1st  Book  of  the  Hermaphroditus,  edited 
by  us;  which  consult,  reader,  if  worth  your 
while.  As  he  who  wriggles  with  his  haunches 
does  it  to  please  somebody,  people  use  the 
word  cevere  also  to  convey  the  meaning  of 
sycophancy  or  adulation.  Thus:  “An,  Rom- 
ule, ceves”  (What  Romulus,  you  fawn  too?) 
in  Persius  (I,  87) ; in  the  same  way  irrumate 
is  used  in  the  sense  of  an  outrage,  affront. 

That  women  can  be  pedicated,  exactly  the 
same  as  men,  is  indicated  by  nature;  that  they 
have  consented,  is  proved  by  numerous  testi- 
monies in  Antiquity.  — Apuleius,  Metamor- 
phoses, III,  p.  138: 

“While  we  were  thus  prattling,  a mutual 
desire  invaded  our  minds  and  roused  our 
limbs;  having  undressed  entirely  we  gave  our- 
selves up  to  the  transports  of  Venus.  I soon 


Digitized  by  Google 


72 


THE  MANUAL 


felt  tired.  Fotis  of  her  own  good  will  offered 
me  the  catamite  corollary.” 

Martial,  IX,  68 : 

“All  night  long  I possessed  a lewd  young 
maiden,  whose  complaisant  demeanor  it  were 
impossible  to  excel.  Exhausted  with  a thou- 
sand modes  of  love.  I asked  for  the  puerile 
service,  which  she  granted  at  once  before  I 
had  finished  my  asking.” 

The  same,  XI,  105,  reproaches  his  wife  as 
follows : 

“You  refuse  to  pedicate;  yet  Cornelia  al- 
lowed it  to  Gracchus,  Julia  to  Pompey,  and 
Portia  did  it  for  Brutus.  Ere  the  Derdanian 
Cupbearer  served  the  wine,  Juno  herself  acted 
Ganymede  for  Jupiter.” 

Tullia  permitted  the  same  to  Aloysio  and 
Fabrizio,  in  Aloysia  Sigaea;  we  have  quoted 
the  passage.  Crispa  tastes  the  same  variety  of 
pleasure,  in  Epigram  LXXI  of  Ausonius: 
“She  lets  herself  be  done  in  either  orifice.” 
The  ancient  Greeks  took  great  delight  in 
the  posterior  Venus.  One  can  scarcely  express 
what  fervent  admirers  they  were  of  beautiful 
buttocks;  it  went  so  far,  that  young  girls  com- 
peted in  public,  before  an  assemblage  sitting 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


73 


as  it  were  in  another  “Judgment  of  Paris”  to 
pronounce  which  of  them  was  the  most  gifted 
in  that  respect.  Athenaeus  (XII,  80)  informs 
us  that  in  the  environs  of  Syracuse  a villager 
had  two  daughters  who  often  quarrelled  as  to 
which  of  them  had  the  finest  posteriors;  one 
day  they  showed  them  on  the  highway  to  a 
young  man  from  Syracuse,  who  chanced  to  be 
passing,  and  asked  him  to  adjudicate  between 
them.  He  decided  in  favour  of  the  elder  sis- 
ter, fell  at  once  violently  in  love  with  her,  and 
on  his  return  home  he  told  his  younger  broth- 
er what  had  befallen  him.  The  latter  went 
forthwith  to  see  the  two  girls,  and  became  en- 
amoured of  the  younger.  Soon  they  got  mar- 
ried to  the  two  youths,  who  were  opulent,  and 
they  were  called  by  their  fellow-citizens  the 
Callipygi,  because,  although  of  lowly  birth, 
their  posteriors  served  them  for  a dowry.  Full 
of  gratitude,  they  dedicated  a temple  to  Venus, 
under  the  title  of  Venus  Callipygos  (Venus  of 
the  beauteous  buttocks). 

It  will  not  surprise  you,  that  any  young 
girl  remarkable  for  her  beautiful  posteriors 
amongst  her  companions  was  all  the  more  in 
request  for  the  puerile  office,  and  all  the  more 


Digitized  by  Google 


74 


THE  MANUAL 


disposed  to  lend  herself  to  it.  Mania  consent- 
ed to  it  in  favour  of  Demetrius,  as  testified  by 
Machon,  in  Athenaeus  (XIII,  42),  when  the 
king  wanting  to  enjoy  her  buttocks,  she  ac- 
cepts his  gift,  and  says: 

“Son  of  Agamemnon,  it  is  now  your  turn  to 
have  them  (25).” 

A certain  young  man,  Ponticus  by  name, 
exacted  the  same  corollary  in  the  morning 
from  Gnathena,  whom  he  had  possessed  all 
night;  it  is  again  Machon  who  tells  us  the 
story  {ibid.,  XIII,  43).  Demophon,  the  min- 
ion of  Sophocles,  asked  the  same  favour  of 
Nico  (26)  who  being  famed  for  the  beauty  of 

(25)  To  understand  this,  the  sentence  must  be  com- 
plete; the  worthy  Forberg  takes  his  readers  far  too 
learned ; Mania,  in  the  poem  of  Machon,  says  to  Dem- 
etrius, offering  her  buttoks: 

"Son  of  Agamemnon,  it  is  now  your  turn  to  have 
them, — you  who  have  ever  been  so  liberal  with  your 
own.”  (Note  of  the  translator.) 

(26)  The  following  is  the  passage  from  Machon,  as 
quoted  by  Athenaeus;  without  a knowledge  of  it  For- 
berg’s  allusion  remains  obscure: 

“...Demophon,  Sophocles'  minion,  when  still  a youth 
had  Nico,  already  old  and  surnamed  the  she-goat;  they 
say  she  had  very  fine  buttocks.  One  day,  he  begged  of 
her  to  lend  them  to  him.  ‘Very  well,’  she  said  with  a 
smile, — ‘Take  from  me,  dear,  what  you  give  to  So- 
phocles.’” (Note  of  the  translator.) 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


75 


her  buttocks, — “she  is  said  to  have  had  an  ex- 
ceedingly beautiful  bottom” — was  afraid  he 
might  lend  them  to  Sophocles  {ibid.,  XII, 
45).  Gnathaenion  (ibid.,  XIII,  44)  made  an 
ingenious  excuse  for  having  been  similarly 
complaisant.  A certain  tinker  having  ungen- 
erously boasted  he  had  five  times  running 
mounted  that  little  courtezan  in  that  way,  An- 
dronicus, whom  she  preferred  to  everybody 
else,  got  to  hear  it,  and  reproached  her  bitterly 
for  having  allowed  such  a blackguard  to  en- 
joy her  so  abundantly  in  a posture  which  his 
prayers  never  obtained  from  her.  Gnathaen- 
ion replied  that,  not  caring  to  have  her  breasts 
handled  by  a fellow  black  with  dirt  and  soot, 
it  had  appeared  to  her  better  to  take  that  pos- 
ture, so  as  to  receive  the  least  possible  fraction 
of  the  wretched  creature’s  body.  Plate 
XXVII  of  the  Monuments  du  culte  secret  des 
dames  romaines  presents  the  picture  of  a man 
pedicating  a woman. 

It  is,  however,  not  without  some  inconven- 
ience, or  even  danger,  that  one  lends  oneself 
to  the  passive  part.  Aloysia  Sigaea,  Past-Mis- 
tress in  the  Sciences  of  Love,  enlightens  us  on 
this  point: 


Digitized  by  Google 


76 


THE  MANUAL 


“In  the  first  place  intolerable  sufferings  are 
inflicted  upon  the  patient,  for  in  most  cases  he 
is  invaded  by  too  large  a stake;  hence  fright- 
ful infirmities,  incurable  by  all  the  art  of  Aes- 
culapius. The  confining  muscles  are  ruptured, 
and  consequently  the  excrements  cannot  be 
held  back  and  escape.  What  could  be  more 
disgusting?  I have  known  noble  ladies  afflicted 
with  cruel  maladies  to  such  a degree  by  erup- 
tions and  ulcers,  that  it  took  them  two  or  three 
years  to  recover  their  health.  I myself  (Tul- 
lia) have  not  escaped  scot  free  from  the  ac- 
cursed embraces  of  Aloysio  and  Fabrizio. 
When  they  first  forced  their  darts  in,  I en- 
dured atrocious  pain,  but  soon  the  feeling  of 
slight  titillation  consoled  me. . . When  how- 
ever I reached  home  again,  I felt  a burning 
pain  at  the  place  they  had  lacerated:  I felt 
myself  consumed  by  an  itching  as  if  I were 
on  fire,  and  in  spite  of  the  nursing  of  Donna 
Orsini,  it  cost  much  trouble  to  extinguish  that 
confounded  fire.  If  my  lacerations  had  been 
neglected,  I should  have  died  a miserable 
death”  (Dial.  VI). 

You  understand  now  why  the  young  slave 
of  Naevolus  (Martial  III,  71)  had  pain  at 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


77 


the  anus;  why  the  same  Martial  (VI,  37) 
says  Carinus’  posteriors  had  to  be  cut;  and 
where  the  sting  lies  in  the  following  distich: 

“You,  who  know  all  the  reasons  and  weigh- 
ty arguments  of  the  sects,  — come  tell  me, 
what  dogma  is  it  bids  you  be  perforated” 
(IX,  48). 

This  effeminate  philosopher,  who  affected 
to  speak  as  though  he  had  been  the  successor 
and  heir  of  Pythagoras,  was  indeed  bound,  if 
anyone  was,  to  know  the  reasons  of  lacera- 
tions (27)  of  the  anus,  and  the  weights  of 
men’s  members.  He  was  accustomed  to  the 
passive  part,  of  whom  Ausonius  says  in  mock- 
ery, as  we  saw  a little  above,  that  his  clazo- 
rnenae  served  as  an  anvil: 

Men  preferred  to  be  supposed  pedicators 
rather  than  patients;  hence  Martial’s  witty 
epigram : 

“It  is  now  many  a long  day,  Lupus,  that 
Charisianus  has  been  saying  he  cannot  pedi- 
cate.  But  whenever  his  friends  asked  him 
why,  he  said  his  bowels  were  relaxed”  (XI, 
89). 

(27)  Secta,  sect  (from  sequor)  may  also  be  derived 
from  secare,  to  cut,  and  thus  mean:  laceration.  (Note  of 
the  translator.) 


Digitized  by  Google 


78 


THE  MANUAL 


Would  you  see  the  picture  of  a man  en- 
gaged in  pedication?  he  is  being  interrupted 
in  the  midst  of  his  business,  but  the  drawing 
is  not  the  less  pleasant  for  that.  The  engrav- 
ing belonging  to  chapter  III.  of  the  third 
part  of  Felicia,  presents  this  position. 

Who  does  not  know  that  the  Greeks  and 
Roman  were  intrepid  pedicons  and  deter- 
mined cinedes?  In  the  Greek  and  Latin  au- 
thors, to  the  indignation  of  the  pedagogues, 
the  male  Venus  parades  on  every  page: 

“All  burnt  with  the  same  fire” — we  are 
quoting  Aloysia  Sigaea,  and  we  could  not  ex- 
press ourselves  better  or  more  elegantly.  We 
are,  however,  going  to  make  annotation  to 
this  extract, — “all  burnt  with  the  same  fire, 
the  common  people,  the  higher  classes,  the 
King.  This  depravity  cost  Philip,  King  of 
Macedon,  his  life  (28) ; he  died  by  the  hand 


(28)  Justinus  tells  the  tale  somewhat  differently: 
“Pausanias  had  had  to  undergo  since  his  puberty  the 
violence  of  Attalus,  who  added  to  this  indignity  a cry- 
ing outrage : having  invited  him  to  a feast  and  made  him 
drunk,  he  not  only  satisfied  upon  him,  when  full  of  wine, 
his  brutal  lust,  but  allowed  him  to  be  used  by  all  the 
guests  like  a vile  courtezan,  and  made  him  the  laughing 
stock  of  his  equals.  Unable  to  bear  this  infamy,  Pausanias 
carried  his  complaint  before  Philip  many  and  many  a 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


79 


of  Pausanias,  whom  he  had  outraged.  It  sub- 
jected Julius  Caesar  to  the  passion  of  King 
Nicomedes  (29), — Caesar,  “wife  of  all  men, 
and  husband  of  all  women”  (30). 


time,  but  the  King  always  put  him  off  with  illusory 
promises.  When  Pausanias  however  saw  Attalus  ele- 
vated to  the  rank  of  the  Chief  of  the  Army,  his  fury 
turned  against  Philip,  and  the  vengeance  which  he 
could  not  take  upon  his  enemy,  he  took  upon  the  iniquit- 
ous judge.”  (IX,  6). 

(29)  Suetonius,  Julius  Caesar,  ch.  48:  “Not  content 
with  having  written  in  some  of  his  letters  that  Caesar 
was  conducted  by  the  guards  to  the  bed-chamber  of  the 
King,  slept  there  in  a golden  bed  hung  with  purple,  and 
that  he  allowed  the  bloom  of  his  youth  to  be  blighted 
in  Bithynia,  Cicero  said  to  him  one  day  in  the  midst  of 
the  Senate,  where  Cssar  was  defending  the  case  of  Nysa, 
the  daughter  of  King  Nicomedes,  and  spoke  of  his  obli- 
gations to  that  King:  Pray,  let  us  pass  over  all  this;  it 
is  only  too  well  known  what  you  have  received,  and  what 
you  have  given.” 

On  the  day  of  his  triumph  over  the  Gauls,  the  soldiers 
sung  the  following  verses,  amongst  those  which  are 
usually  sung  behind  the  triumphal  car,  and  they  are  well 
known. 

“Caesar  has  subdued  the  Gauls,  and  Nicomedes  C«e- 
sar:  this  day  is  Caesar  triumphant  for  having  subdued 
the  Gauls,  and  Nicomedes,  who  subdued  Caesar,  has  no 
triumph.” 

Catullus  ( carm . 57) : 

“How  well  they  go  together,  those  shameless  cinedes, 
Mamurra  the  patient,  and  Caesar." 

(30)  Suetonius,  Julius  Ceesar,  ch.  51:  Nor  yet  did  he 
respect  the  conjugal  bed  in  the  provinces;  this  appears 


Digitized  by  Google 


80 


THE  MANUAL 


Augustus  did  not  escape  this  shame  (31), 
Tiberius  (32)  and  Nero  gloried  in  it.  Nero 

from  the  distich,  also  sung  by  the  soldiers  at  the  trium- 
phal entry: 

“Citizens  mind  your  wives;  we  bring  you  the  bald- 
headed  adulterer.  You  expended  gold  in  Gaul;  here  you 
are  taking  your  change.” 

The  same  author  (Julius  Cttsar,  ch.  52)  says:  “Hel- 
vius Cinna,  tribune  of  the  people,  admitted  to  many 
people,  that  he  had  drawn  up  and  kept  ready  a law  by 
the  instructions  of  Caesar,  to  bring  it  forward  during  his 
absence,  by  which  he  would  be  at  liberty,  with  a view 
to  leaving  offspring,  to  marry  whom  he  would  and  as 
many  wives  as  he  wished.  So  that  nobody  should  be  in 
any  doubt  about  the  notoriety  of  his  lewdness  and  in- 
famy, Curio,  the  elder,  in  one  of  his  pleadings,  calls 
him  the  husband  of  all  women,  and  the  wife  of  all  hus- 
bands.” 

(31)  “Sextus  Pompeius  reproached  him  for  being  ef- 
feminate, and  Marc  Anthony  says  he  bought  his  adop- 
tion from  his  uncle  (or  rather  his  great-uncle)  by 
prostituting  himself  to  him.  On  a day  of  public  games 
all  the  world  understood  and  applied  to  him  very  dem- 
onstratively the  following  verses,  spoken  of  a Priest  of 
Cybele,  Mother  of  the  Gods,  playing  the  tambourine”: 

“See  you  how  a cinede  governs  the  world  with  a 
finger?”  (Suetonius,  Augustus,  ch.  68.) 

A picture  representing  Augustus  playing  the  part  of 
a patient,  is  in  the  Monuments  de  la  vie  privee  des  douze 
Cesars,  pi.  VI.,  and  another  of  Caesar  and  Nicomedes, 
pi.  I. 

(32)  “It  is  even  said,  that  during  a sacrifice,  he  could 
not  restrain  himself,  smitten  with  the  pretty  face  of  the 
incense-bearer;  the  divine  service  barely  finished,  he  took 
the  youth  aside,  and  debauched  him,  and  then  did  as 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


81 


married  Tigellinus  (33),  and  was  himself 
espoused  by  Sporus  (34).  Trajan  (35),  the 

much  for  his  brother,  who  played  the  flute.  Soon  after- 
wards he  ordered  their  legs  to  be  broken,  because  they 
reproached  each  other  with  their  infamy  (Suetonius, 
Tiberius,  ch.  44).  The  act  of  this  madman  is  repre- 
sented on  pi.  XX.  in  the  work  of  d’Hancarville,  cited  on 
a previous  page. 

(33)  And  also  Pythagoras.  “One  would  have  thought 
that  nothing  was  left  for  him  in  the  way  of  debauchery, 
and  that  he  had  reached  the  limits  of  depravity,  if  he 
had  not  a few  days  later  chosen  out  of  this  infamous 
herd  a certain  Pythogoras,  whom  he  took  for  his  hus- 
band with  all  the  solemnity  of  a marriage.  The  flam- 
meum was  put  on  the  Emperor’s  head,  the  auspices  were 
consulted,  neither  dowry  nor  nuptial  torches  were  for- 
gotten ; all  was  done  openly,  even  those  things,  which,  if 
done  with  a woman,  are  hidden  by  the  night  (Tacitus, 
Annals,  XV,  37).  The  man  called  Pythagoras  by  Taci- 
tus, appears  to  be  the  same  to  whom  Suetonius  {Nero, 
ch.  29),  gives  the  name  of  Doryphorus,  either  on  account 
of  his  services,  or  by  mistake.  “He  took  for  husband  the 
freedman  Doryphorus  in  the  same  way  in  which  Sporus 
had  taken  him  himself  for  husband,  and  he  counter- 
feited the  cries  and  sobbings  of  virgins  when  losing  their 
maidenhead.”  Piate  XXXVIII  of  the  above  quoted 
work  shows  an  illustration  of  this  anecdote. 

(34)  “He  went  so  far  as  to  try  to  change  a young  man 
into  a woman ; his  name  was  Sporus,  and  he  had  him 
castrated ; having  given  him  a dowry,  he  caused  him  to 
be  brought  to  him  with  the  flammeum  on  his  head,  and 
married  him  with  all  the  nuptial  solemnities.  There  has 
come  down  to  us  an  appropriate  saying  on  somebody’s 
part,  namely,  whether  it  might  not  have  been  better 
for  human  kind  if  Domitian,  his  father,  had  married  a 


Digitized  by  Google 


82 


THE  MANUAL 


best  of  rulers,  was  accompanied  by  a paeda- 
gogium, while  he  marched  from  victory 
through  the  Orient.  What  he  named  his  pae- 
gogium,  while  he  marched  from  victory  to 
victory  through  the  Orient.  What  he  named 
his  paedagogium  was  a troop  of  pretty  lads, 
well  developed,  whom  he  called  day  and  night 
to  come  to  his  arms.  Antinous  served  as 
mistress  to  Hadrian, — a rival  to  Plotina,  but 
more  fortunate  than  she  was  (36).  The  em- 

woman  of  that  sort.  He  made  Sporus  dress  himself  in 
the  costume  of  the  Empresses,  and  had  him  carried  in 
his  litter ; he  travelled  with  him  in  that  way,  taking  him 
through  the  meetings  and  markets  in  Greece,  and  soon 
after  in  Rome,  about  the  time  of  the  Sigillarian  festiv- 
ities, kissing  him  from  time  to  time”  (Suetonius,  Nero, 
chap.  28).  Plate  XXXIV  in  the  repeatedly  quoted 
French  work,  gives  a representation  of  the  abominable 
wedding. 

(35)  “He  (Hadrian)  enjoyed  the  affection  of  Trajan, 
but  this  did  not  save  him  from  the  malevolence  of  the 
pedagogues  of  the  young  boys  Trajan  loved  so  ardently” 
(Spartianus,  Hadrian,  ch.  2). 

(36)  “He  lost,  during  his  navigation  of  the  Nile,  his 
dear  Antinous,  and  wept  for  him  like  a woman.  There 
are  sundry  allegations  about  this  Antinous;  some  say  he 
was  devoted  to  Hadrian,  others  point  to  the  beauty  of  his 
shape,  and  to  the  pleasure  Hadrian  experienced  with 
him.  At  the  instance  of  Hadrian  the  Greeks  placed  him 
in  the  ranks  of  the  Gods,  and  affirmed  that  he  gave 
oracular  decisions;  those  oracles,  it  is  said,  were  com- 
posed by  Hadrian  himself”  (Spartianus,  Hadrian,  ch. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


83 


peror  mourned  over  his  death,  and  placing 
the  dead  man  amongst  the  Gods,  he  raised  al- 
tars and  temples  in  his  honour.  Antonius 
Heliogabalus,  nephew  of  Severus,  was  accus- 
tomed, an  old  author  says  (37),  to  have  pleas- 

14).  St.  Jerome  says  in  the  Hegesippus:  “Antinous,  a 
slave  of  the  Emperor  Hadrian,  after  whom  a circus  was 
named  the  Antinoian,  founded  also  a town  bearing  his 
name  (Antinoia),  and  established  an  Oracle  in  the 
temple.” 

(37)  “Who,  indeed,  could  put  up  with  a ruler  who 
imbibed  pleasure  through  all  the  cavities  in  his  body? 
Not  even  a beast  would  be  suffered  to  do  so.  At  Rome 
his  only  care  was  to  send  out  emissaries,  who  had  to  look 
out  for  and  to  bring  to  the  court  the  best  shaped  men  for 
his  enjoyment.  He  had  a performance  of  the  comedy  of 
“Paris”  in  his  palace,  played  the  part  of  Venus  himself, 
and  suddenly  dropping  his  clothes,  he  appeared  naked 
with  one  hand  on  his  chest  and  the  other  covering  his 
pudenda;  he  then  knelt  down  and  offered  his  raised 
buttocks  to  his  pedicon”  (Lampridius,  Heliogabalus,  ch. 
5).  And  a little  farther  on:  "He  loved  Hierocles  to  such 
a degree  as  to  kiss  his  virile  parts,  a thing  I blush  to  re- 
port; he  said  that  he  thus  celebrated  the  Floralia”  (Ibid., 
ch.  6).  He  did  not  hesitate  to  repeat  the  infamous  wed- 
ding of  Nero  with  Pythagoras:  “Zoticus  had  such  a 
power  over  him  that  the  principal  officials  of  the  state 
treated  him  as  though  he  really  were  the  husband  of  the 
Emperor.  He  married  him,  and  made  him  consummate 
the  marriage  in  the  presence  of  the  giver  away  of  the 
bride,  telling  him,  “Push  in,  Magira!”  And  this  was 
done  at  a time  when  Zoticus  was  ill”  (Lampridius,  ch. 
10).  Zoticus  was  called  Magira  on  account  of  the  profes- 
sion of  his  father,  who  had  been  a cook. 


Digitized  by  Google 


84 


THE  MANUAL 


ures  administered  to  him  through  all  the  ori- 
fices in  his  body;  his  contemporaries  looked 
upon  him  as  a monster.  Before  this  Venus 
grave  philosophers  danced  in  company  with 
pederasts.  Alcibiades  and  Phaedo  slept  with 
Socrates  (38),  when  they  wanted  to  get  their 
tutor  into  good  humour.  It  is  from  this  kind 
of  amours  practised  by  the  venerable  man, 
that  is  derived  the  erotic  phrase : to  love  So- 
cratically.  Every  action  and  every  word  of 


(38)  Socrates,  as  is  well  known,  has  not  been  in  want 
of  warm  defenders;  Brucker  ( Critical  History  of  Phil- 
osophy, I,  pp.  539,  540),  may  stand  for  all  of  them. 
Undoubtedly  Plato,  in  Symposium,  brought  in  Alcibi- 
ades, who  says  he  recollects,  to  use  the  expression  of 
Cornelius  Nepos  ( Alcibiades , ch.  2.)  “to  have  passed  a 
night  with  Socrates,  but  not  otherwise  than  a son  might 
with  his  father.”  But  Xantippe,  and  it  is  not  surprising, 
was  indignant  that  her  husband  should  be  on  such 
familiar  terms  with  a good-looking  youth  like  Alcibiades; 
and  Aelian  (V aride  Historiae,  XI,  12),  relates  that  she 
stamped  upon  a cake  sent  by  Alcibiades,  which  made 
Socrates  laugh  and  cry  out:  “What  are  you  doing?  You 
cannot  eat  it  now.  I do  not  care  for  it  at  all!”  But, 
Socrates!  good  morals  and  such  friends  are  incompatible. 
Enough  to  name  amongst  the  disciples  of  Socrates  Plato, 
whom  Diogenes  Laertius  (III,  23),  declares  to  have 
loved  Aster,  Phaedrus,  Alexis,  and  before  all  Dion;  he 
quotes  an  epigram  of  Plato  on  Dion,  ending  thus: 

“O  you,  who  have  so  fiercely  burnt  my  heart  with 
love,  you  Dion!” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


85 


Socrates  were  held  as  sacred  by  all  sects  of 
philosophers;  they  built  a temple  and  erected 
an  altar  in  his  honour;  all  his  actions  had 
legal  force,  and  his  words  the  authority  of  an 
oracle.  The  philosophers  did  not  turn  away 
from  the  example  set  by  their  Hero  (for  So- 
crates took  rank  with  the  Heroes)  and  new 
national  divinity.  Lycurgus,  the  Spartan  leg- 
islator, living  some  centuries  before  Socrates, 
refused  the  title  of  a good  and  deserving  citi- 
zen to  any  man  who  had  not  a friend  that 
served  him  as  a concubine.  He  willed  it  that 
virgins  should  perform  naked  on  the  stage, 
so  that  the  view  of  their  charms  freely  ex- 
posed, should  dull  in  men  that  sensual  long- 
ing which  by  the  aid  of  nature  draws  them 
to  women,  that  they  might  thus  reserve  all 
their  passion  for  their  friends  and  compan- 
ions. For  what  men  see  every  day  loses  half 
its  effect. 

Again,  why  speak  of  the  Poets  (39)  ? Ana- 


(39)  Valerius  Maximus  (IX,  12)  relates  of  Pindar: 
"One  day,  at  the  Gymnasium,  Pindar,  leaning  his  head 
against  the  breast  of  a young  lad,  whom  he  loved  above 
all  (Suidas  says  his  name  was  Theoxenes),  fell  asleep; 
no  sooner  had  the  head  of  the  establishment  seen  him 
asleep  than  he  ordered  all  the  doors  to  be  closed,  for  fear 


Digitized  by  Google 


86 


THE  MANUAL 


creon  (40),  was  hotly  in  love  with  Bathyllus; 
almost  all  pleasantries  of  Plautus  have  this 
subject  for  their  aim;  they  are  of  this  kind: 
“I  shall  do  like  the  lads,  I will  cower  down 
over  a hamper  (41).” 

of  the  poet  being  awakened.”  Athenaeus  on  his  part 
(XIII,  81)  tells  us  of  Sophocles:  “Sophocles  loved  boys 
to  the  same  degree  as  Euripides  loved  women”;  and  a 
little  farther  on  (ch.  82)  he  relates  the  story  of  a youth 
whom  Sophocles  enjoyed,  but  at  the  price  of  his  mantle, 
which  the  rogue  abstracted.  Euripides,  having  been  in- 
formed of  this  adventure,  mocked  the  poet  for  having 
been  thus  done:  “I  also”,  he  said,  “have  had  him,  but 
he  got  nothing  else  out  of  me.”  I am  surprised  that  this 
passage  of  Athenaeus  should  have  appeared  doubtful  to 
the  celebrated  Casaubon,  on  account  of  the  expression 
“got  out  of  me”  which  is  quite  correct  and  applicable. 
Sophocles  and  Euripides  had  both  lavished  their  white 
fluids  upon  the  little  rogue ; but  from  one  of  them  he  got 
besides  a mantle,  from  the  other  nothing  else. 

(40)  “No  less  fiercely  burned  the  love  of  Anacreon  of 
Teos,  they  say,  for  the  Samian  youth  Bathyllus”  (Ho- 
race, Epodes,  XIV,  9,  10). 

(41)  The  actual  words  of  Plautus  are: 

“I  must  do  the  puerile  service:  I will  cower  down 
over  a hamper”  ( Cistellaria  IV,  sc.  I,  v.  5), — which 
means,  I will  bend  down  to  the  hamper,  raising  the 
buttocks,  and  thus  present  them  to  the  pedicon.  This  is, 
in  fact,  what  is  called,  the  “puerile  office”,  and  which 
Apuleius  (Metam.  Ill,  ch.  2),  calls  “the  puerile  corol- 
lary”. Martial  (IX,  68)  says  simply,  “ illud  puerile ." 
Conquinescere  is  according  to  Nonius,  p.  531,  Gott- 
fried’s edition,  to  curve  the  spine,  an  expression  designat- 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


87 


ing  in  particular  the  passive  posture  as  we  have  seen 
in  the  Pseudolus-. 

“When  he  curves  the  spine,  then  simultaneously  wrig- 
gle your  buttocks.” 

Some  authors  have  also  used  a still  more  forcible  ex- 
pression, “ Ocguinescere " vis.,  ”to  cower  low  down” 
(Nonius,  p.  567).  Pomponius,  on  word  "Prostibulum” : 
“I  have  never  forced  pedication  upon  any  citizen ; I have 
always  abstained,  unless  the  patient  had  asked  me  and 
cowered  down  of  his  own  free  will.”  And  on  word 
"Pistor”:  “Unless  somebody  anticipated  my  desires,  will- 
ingly crouching  down  so  that  I could  do  the  thing  secure- 
ly.” This  position  of  the  patient  cowering  down  is  very 
rarely  alluded  to;  the  question  generally  turns  upon  his 
kneeling.  “Thus,”  says  Lampridus  of  Heliogabalus,  he 
offered  himself  with  the  buttocks  raised  to  the  pedicon” 
(ch.  5).  Heliogabalus  was  kneeling,  and  not  crouching. 
The  same  is  the  case  with  Timarchus  in  Lucian:  “All 
that  were  near  you  remember  it;  they  have  seen  you  on 
your  knees,  while  your  accomplice  did  you  know  what” 
(Apophras,  p.  152,  vol.  VII. — Works  of  Lucian  edit, 
by  J.-P.  Schmid).  If  you  would  like  to  see  these  two 
postures,  you  will  find  them  in  the  Monuments  de  la  vie 
privee  des  douze  Cesars,  pi.  XXVII.,  a patient  crouching, 
and  pi.  XXXVIII,  a patient  kneeling. 

From  the  fact  that  men  wanting  to  void  their  excre- 
ment when  out  of  doors  cower  down,  it  has  come  about 
that  passive  pederasts  were  said  to  sh...t, — in  fact  to 
sh...t  the  active  party’s  member  as  it  goes  in  and  out  of 
the  anus.  Hence  in  the  priapeia,  LXX: 

“Look  at  me,  thief,  and  realize  the  weight  of  the  mem- 
ber you  will  have  to  sh...t.”  Martial  (IX,  70)  also  plays 
on  the  word : 

“When  you  love  a woman,  Polycharmus,  you  always 
sh...t  before  you  have  done.  Tell  me,  Polycharmus,  what 
you  do,  when  you  pedicate?” 


Digitized  by  Google 


88 


THE  MANUAL 


Or  again: 

“The  soldier’s  poniard  did  it  fit  your 
sheath  (42)?” 

That  grand  master  of  the  art  of  poetry, 
Maro,  who  won  the  surname  of  Parthenias 
by  his  ingenuousness  and  innate  modesty, 
cherished  a certain  Alexander,  whom  Pollio 
had  given  to  him  as  a present,  and  he  has 
celebrated  him  under  the  name  of  Alexis 
(43).  Ovid  suffered  from  the  same  malady; 
he  however  preferred  young  girls  to  lads,  be- 
cause in  his  amusement  he  wanted  reciprocal 
pleasure,  and  not  a selfish  enjoyment.  He  said 
he  loved  the  pleasure  “of  the  simultaneous 
ejaculation  of  both  parties”  (44),  and  for 
this  reason  he  was  less  given  to  the  love  of 
boys. 

Young  girls  and  wives  finding  themeslves 

(42)  Pseudolus , IV,  sc.  VII,  85. 

(43)  You  might  very  well,  Aloysia,  have  quoted  Ho- 
race too  ( Epodes , XI)  : 

‘“Now  Lyciscus  holds  me  in  love-bonds,  from  which 
neither  friendly  advice,  nor  humiliating  affronts  avail 
to  liberate  me. 

And  Satires,  I,  ii,  v.  116-119. 

“When  your  privates  are  swelling,  if  some  maid-ser- 
vant or  slave-boy  is  at  hand  for  you  to  assail  forthwith, 
do  you  choose  rather  to  burst  with  desire?  Nay!  not  I!" 

(44)  Art  of  Love,  II,  683,  684. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


89 


neglected,  the  first  by  those  they  loved,  the 
other  ones  by  their  husbands,  instead  of  offer- 
ing their  services  only  as  females,  resolved 
to  play  the  part  of  the  lads.  The  depravity 
became  so  great  that  this  complaisance  was 
actually  extorted  from  brides,  as  it  was  be- 
fore from  married  women;  in  fact  the  hus- 
band went  at  the  young  wife  pederastically, 
and  the  two  sexes  were  joined  in  one  and  the 
same  body.  In  the  facetious  poems  of  the  an- 
cients, Priapus  (45)  threatens  every  thief  of 
vegetables  from  his  garden  that  comes  near 
his  weapon,  to  make  him  sacrifice  what  in  the 
first  night  the  bride  accords  to  her  ardent 
husband,  for  fear  that  he  may  wound  another 
part. 

Making  use  of  his  imagination  with  the 
licence  ever  granted  both  to  painters  and 
poets,  Valerius  Martial  (46)  pretends  to 


(45)  Priapeia,  II. 

(46)  Epigr.  44,  book  IX: 

“Catching  me  with  a boy,  you  harass  me  with  your 
cries,  and  you  tell  me,  my  wife,  that  you  have  posteriors 
too. 

Many  and  many  a time  did  Juno  say  the  same  to  Ju- 
piter the  Thunderer;  yet  he  continued  to  sleep  with 
slender  Ganymede. 

He  of  Tyrius,  laying  his  bow  aside,  bent  Hylas  under 


Digitized  by  Google 


90 


THE  MANUAL 


hear  his  wife  grumble  that  she  also  had  but- 
tocks, and  that  he  had  no  need  of  boys. 
“Juno”,  she  says,  “also  pleased  Jupiter  from 
that  side.”  Tho  poet  is  not  to  be  convinced, 
he  answers  her  that  the  part  taken  by  a boy  is 
one  thing,  and  that  of  the  wife  another,  and 
that  she  ought  to  be  satisfied  with  hers. 


him ; think  you  therefore  that  Megara  was  without  but- 
tocks? Dephne,  by  her  flight,  vexed  Phoebus,  but  his 
love’s  ardour  found  relief  in  the  end  in  the  boy  Oeba- 
lius. Although  Briseis  slept,  often  with  her  backs  turned 
upon  him,  his  smooth-skinned  friend  Patroclus  was  more 
to  the  taste  of  the  son  of  Aeacus. 

Cease  then,  wife,  to  call  your  affairs  by  masculine 
names;  better  consider  you  have  two  vulvas. 

His  Epigram  XII,  98,  treats  of  the  same  matter: 

Knowing  as  you  do  the  honest  walk  and  fidelity  of 
your  husband,  and  that  he  never  misuses  your  bed  with 
concubines,  why,  foolish  woman,  torment  yourself  about 
those  venal  boy  lovers, — brief  and  fugitive  is  the  pleasure 
from  their  complaisance! 

They  are  more  useful  to  you  than  to  their  master,  I 
tell  you,  for  they  make  him  think  that  one  wife  is  better 
than  they  all.  They  give  what  you  will  not  give; — But 
I will,  you  say,  so  that  the  volatile  husband  stray  not 
from  the  conjugal  bed. 

But  it  is  not  the  same  thing,  I want  a fig  not  an  orange, 
and  you  must  know  theirs  is  a fig,  yours  an  orange; 
Look!  a matron,  a woman  like  you,  must  know  what  be- 
longs to  her.  Leave  to  boys  what  is  theirs,  and  do  you 
make  the  best  of  what  is  yours.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


91 


Under  the  name-boards  (47)  and  the  lamps 
(48)  in  the  brothels  sat  (49)  boys  as  well  as 
girls,  the  first  dressed  in  the  feminine  stola, 
the  latter  in  the  manly  tunic,  and  with  their 
hair  dressed  like  boys.  Under  the  guise  of 
one  sex  was  found  the  other.  Asia  (SO)  was 

(47)  Some  prostitutes  sat  (Plautus,  Poenulus,  I.,  ii., 
v.  54),  others  stood:  “Another  man  will  only  have  the 
harlot  that  stands  upright  in  the  unclean  brothel,” 
(Horace,  Sat.  I,  ii.,  v.  30.) 

(48)  Juvenal’s  Messalina  (VI.,  v.  123)  prostitutes 
herself  "under  the  fictitious  name  - board  of  Lycisca.” 
Petronius:  “I  see  men  gliding  in  stealthily  between  the 
name-boards  and  the  naked  prostitutes;  I understood, 
alas,  too  late,  that  I had  been  introduced  into  a bad  place. 
(Satyr,  ch.  7.)  Martial  (XI.,  46): 

“When  you  pass  the  threshold  of  a chamber  with 
name-board  over  the  door,  whether  it  be  a boy  or  a girl 
that  greeted  you  with  a smile” 

That  the  prostitutes  changed  their  names  is  apparent 
from  a passage  in  Plautus  (Poenulus,  V,  iii,  20,  21: 

“For  to-day  they  were  to  change  their  names,  and 
will  lend  their  bodies  for  infamous  traffic.” 

(49)  Horce,  Sat.  II,  vii,  48,  49: 

“ Every  woman  that  naked  beneath  the  bright 

lamplight  endured  the  thrusts  of  a swollen  member.” 

Juvenal,  VI,  130,  131. 

“Foul  with  the  reek  of  the  lamp,  she  bore  to  the  Im- 
perial couch  the  stink  of  the  brothel.” 

(50)  Authors  vary  on  this  point.  Herodotus:  “The 
Persians  pollute  young  boys;  they  have  learned  it  from 
the  Greeks  (I,  135).  Plutarch  refutes  the  assertion: 
vHow  can  the  Persians  be  indebted  to  the  Greeks  for 


Digitized  by  Google 


92 


THE  MANUAL 


the  original  home  of  this  pest,  then  Africa  got 
infected,  and  soon  the  scourge  invaded  Greece 
and  the  adjoining  countries  of  Europe  (51). 
In  Thrace  Orpheus  was  the  importer  and 
supporter  of  this  unclean  pleasure.  The  Thra- 
cian women,  finding  themselves  held  in  con- 
tempt, .... 

“During  the  sacred  feasts  and  the  noctur- 
nal orgies  of  Bacchus,  tore  the  youth  to  pieces, 


these  impurities,  when  all  historians  are  agreed  upon 
the  fact  that  they  had  eunuchs  before  they  had  ever  come 
near  to  the  Grecian  seas?”  (Of  the  Maliciousness  of 
Herodotus,  p.  857,  vol.  II  of  Frankfort  edition  of  1620). 
Athenaeus:  ‘‘Pederastia  was  first  introduced  in  Greece 
by  the  Cretans,  as  is  related  by  Timaeus;  other  authors 
however  have  asserted  that  the  man  who  first  imported 
that  sort  of  love  was  Laius,  who,  having  been  hospitably 
received  by  Pelops,  fell  in  love  with  Chrysippus,  the  son 
of  his  host,  carried  him  off  in  his  chariot,  and  fled  to 
Thebes.”  (XIII,  79.)  And  who  has  not  heard  of  the 
incontinence  of  the  inhabitants  of  Sodom? 

(51)  Particularly  in  Euboea,  whence  the  expression, 
“Chalcidize”,  meaning,  according  to  Hesychius,  to  pedi- 
cate,  because  masculine  loves  flourished  among  the 
Chalcidians.  “Phicidize”  is  another  expression  for  the 
same  thing  from  the  name  of  a town  now  unknown; 
Suidas:  “Phicidize,  to  be  a Pederast”,  and  similarly, 
“Siphnianize”  from  Siphnos,  an  island  in  the  zEgean; 
Hesychius  says:  “Sipnianize,  that  is  to  finger  the  anus; 
the  inhabitants  of  Siphnos  are,  in  fact,  given  to  the 
practice  of  pederastia.”  We  have  seen  above  that  the 
meaning  of  Siphnianize  has  been  perverted. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


93 


and  bestrewed  the  wide  plains  with  his  limbs. 
(Virgil,  Georg.  IV,  521,  522.) 

It  is  alleged  that  in  those  ancient  times  the 
Celts  (52)  ridiculed  those  amongst  them  who 
kept  aloof  from  this  practice;  such  could  ex- 
pect neither  civil  employment  nor  honours. 
Those,  that  preserved  the  purity  of  their 
morals  were  shunned  as  impure.  “In  a town 
where  everyone  is  mad,  it  is  not  good  to  be 
alone  sane,  and  by  reason  of  its  not  being 
good  it  is  not  advisable.”  (Dialogue  VI.) 

This  ends  our  brilliant  extract  from  Aloy- 
sia  Sigaea. 

Even  in  our  own  days  (53)  the  taste  for  the 


(52)  Athenaeus,  XIII,  79:  “Of  all  the  barbarians 
the  Celts,  although  their  women  are  most  beautiful — it 
is,  therefore,  not  surprising  that  an  ardent  amateur  of 
“fine  women,"  such  as  Julius  Caesar  is  described  to  us, 
should  in  the  Gallic  Provinces  have  been  not  over  re- 
spectful to  the  conjugal  bed — the  Celts  take  more  pleas- 
ure in  pederastia  than  any  other  Nation,  to  such  a degree 
that  amongst  them  it  is  no  rarity  to  find  a man  lying 
between  two  minions. 

(53)  Pardon  me,  illustrious  Marcus  Pullarius,  for 
having  almost  forgotten  you.  Ausonius,  Epigr.  LXX.: 

“Which  Marcus?  The  one  they  call  the  “cat  that 
catches  boys”,  he  who  tarnishes  all  the  purity  of  child- 
hood, who  plies  with  his  back-door  tool  the  rearward 
Venus,  the  poet  Lucilius’  subulo,  his  pullipremo." 

Ausonius  calls  him  the  pullarian  cat,  because  he  hun- 


Digitized  by  Google 


94 


THE  MANUAL 


male  Venus  has  not  disappeared,  witness  the 
Persians,  who  are  very  much  addicted  to  this 
kind  of  pleasure,  as  is  related  by  those  who 
have  travelled  in  their  country.  Amongst 
others  there  is  Adam  Lhuilier,  chapter  15, 
book  V,  of  his  Itinerary.  If  we  may  trust  to 
Aloysia  Sigaea,  the  Italians  and  Spaniards 
did  it;  also  the  Dutchmen,  with  whom  to- 
wards the  middle  of  the  XVIIIth.  Century, 
as  J.  David  Michaelides  tells  us  in  his  Trea- 
tise on  the  Law  of  Moses  (in  Dutch),  5258, 
this  habit  was  so  much  in  vogue,  that  the  pun- 
ishment of  death  was  hardly  of  avail  against 
it;  also  the  Parisians,  according  to  the  Author 
of  the  Gynaeology  (in  German,  vol.  II,  p. 
427),  a fully  competent  authority,  who  adds 
that  in  almsot  all  the  great  cities  of  Europe 
there  are  to  be  found  plenty  of  people  who, 
either  being  satiated  with  the  ordinary  pleas- 
ure, or  afraid  of  infectious  diseases,  prefer  the 


ted  after  young  lads  (puelli)  as  the  cat  gives  chase  to 
birds;  he  calls  him,  applying  to  him  the  same  epithets  as 
“Lucilius,  who  Satires  he  had  the  opportunity  of  read- 
ing,— more  fortunate  in  this  than  we, — a subulo  (from 
subula,  an  awl),  wanting  to  make  it  understood  that 
with  his  member  he  transfixed,  like  a cobbler  with  his 
awl,  the  anus  of  cinedes;  and  pulliprema,  from  his  com- 
pressing in  his  work  young  lads. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


95 


posterior  to  the  anterior  Venus, — the  English 
always  excepted,  who  abominate  this  prac- 
tice. Not  to  be  for  ever  talking  generalities 
and  never  giving  definite  instances,  the  cases 
of  Gonzalvo  of  Cordova  (54)  and  of  Ven- 
dome  (55),  both  of  them  excellent  Generals, 
have  been  made  notorious  enough  by  histori- 
cal documents;  to  these  we  could  add  other 
still  more  illustrious  examples,  taken  from 
our  own  time  and  made  known  by  a heedless 
fame;  that  of  a great  author,  of  a great  king, 
the  father  of  his  country,  and  of  a man,  who 
during  his  life  gained  general  admiration  by 
the  penetration  of  his  intellect,  and  the  splen- 
dour of  his  language,  and  whose  knowledge 


(54)  “Menacing  with  his  couched  lance  some  youth 
(he  was  a determined  pedicon),  he  would  say  he  in- 
tended to  go  to  Aversa,  a famous  town”  (Aloysia  Sigaea, 
Dialogue  VII). 

(55)  See  the  “History  of  the  Eighteenth  Century”, 
by  Christ.  Dan.  Voss  (in  German,  Part  V,  p.  364).  As 
to  pedicons  of  less  exalted  position,  of  whom  mention  is 
made  by  the  widow  of  Philip,  first  Duke  of  Orleans,  in 
her  amusing  letters,  pp.  74,  284,  350),  which  appeared 
about  thirty  years  ago,  there  are:  the  Cardinal  de  Bouil- 
lon, the  Chevalier  de  Lorraine,  the  Comte  de  Marsan, 
Francois  Louis,  Prince  de  Conti.  These  together  with 
the  Comte  de  Varmandois,  a cinede  this  last,  must  rest 
content  to  appear  in  a mere  foot-note. 


Digitized  by  Google 


96 


THE  MANUAL 


embraces  all  branches  of  knowledge,  not  only 
the  ordinary  ones,  but  the  profoundest  and 
most  abstruse  (56), — a man  that  might  well 
propose  the  riddle  of  the  Sphinx  to  his  emi- 
nent confrere  in  whom  we  delight  to  admire 
the  power  of  a truly  Ciceronian  eloquence, 
unknown  in  Germany  since  the  death  of  the 
great  Ernesti.  These  examples,  I say,  we 
could  easily  allege,  were  we  not  apprehensive 
of  raising,  quite  contrary  to  our  purpose  and 
intention,  a feeling  of  odium  against  the  pious 
memory  of  most  distinguished  men. 

Do  you  wish  for  any  more?  Pacificus  Max- 
imus offers  a goodly  number,  both  of  the  ac- 
tive and  the  passive  parties.  Elegy  I,  p.  107. 
of  the  Paris  edition: 

“The  sole  cause  of  my  badness  was  my  mas- 
ter,— the  man  my  father  and  mother  incau- 
tiously entrusted  me  to.  He  was  the  king  of 
pedicons;  not  one  escaped  his  lust,  so  artful 
and  winning  was  he.  Many  a thing  I learned, 
I had  better  have  left  unknown ; much  did  I 
absorb  through  my  rectum,  much  through 
my  lips.” 

(56)  Do  not  misunderstand  what  I say.  It  is  not  for 
an  honest  man  to  sharpen  his  wits  at  the  expense  of 
another’s  book. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


97 


Elegy  II,  to  Ptolemy  (p.  110)  : 

“For  you,  ungrateful  boy,  I keep  my  treas- 
ures all,  and  no  one  shall  enjoy  them  but  your- 
self; my  mentula  is  growing:  while  it  used 
to  measure  seven  inches,  now  it  measures 
ten.” 

Elegy  IV,  to  Marcus  (p.  113): 

“You  could  not,  Marcus,  find  a better,  a 
more  convenient,  place,  in  which  to  meet  me ; 
not  a spy  is  here  nor  witness,  neither  man  nor 
woman  can  tell  tales.  Let’s  do  it  under  the 
willows  in  this  verdant  meadow;  the  droop- 
ing boughs  will  hide  us  with  their  foliage. 
The  rivulet  will  lull  us  to  sleep  with  its  pleas- 
ant murmur,  and  the  bird  that  warbles  mid 
the  boughs.  Hither  come,  and  glide  into  my 
lap,  thou  that  art  torment  at  once  and  remedy 
of  my  desires!” 

Elegy  XIV  (p.  128)  : 

“One  day  Etruscus  brought  to  me  a youth, 
so  fair  as  is  seldom  seen  at  Jupiter’s  board: 
“I  give  him  up  to  you”,  he  said,  “lay  hold  of 
“him,  that  he  may  cling  to  you  both  day  and 
“night.  May  the  gods  grant  you  love  him 
“well;  he  will  be  wise  if  you  but  pedicate 
“him.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


98 


THE  MANUAL 


And  I : “I  like  this  liberty  conceded  to  my 
“passion;  I shall  always  be  obliged  to  you.  Be 
“sure  this  child,  good  as  he  is,  will  be  better 
“still  in  future;  he  will  suck  my  wisdom  in 
“through  many  places.” 

Joyful  he  goes,  joyful  I seize  hold  of  my 
prey;  delay,  however  short,  seems  long  to  me. 
Oh,  father  proved  in  virtue!  the  one  blame- 
less man,  the  one  sage  in  this  great  town!  The 
master  lays  hands  upon  the  lad’s  posteriors, 
the  lad  grasps  the  master’s  member.  Think 
you,  ye  unlearned,  he  will  learn  in  this  fash- 
ion? Oh,  lucky  boy,  to  have  me  for  a teacher! 
oh  lucky  fate,  that  gave  you  such  a father!” 
Elegy  XV  (p.  131)  : 

“If  the  member  is  dead,  the  voluptuous 
wish  is  still  alive;  if  the  old  man  can  no  long- 
er pedicate,  he  still  wants  to.” 

Elegy  XX  (p.  139)  : 

“My  member  is  so  little,  this  part  of  me 
so  dwindled,  I almost  think  I never  had  one, 
or  that  it  has  disappeared;  my  finger  cannot 
feel,  my  eye  cannot  see  it, — fate  has  been  but 
niggardly  to  me.  I could  be  your  attendant, 
Cybele,  without  operation,  I need  no  shard 
of  glass,  I am  a castrated  priest  already.  And 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


99 


still — it  is  a shame,  but  must  be  confessed; 
there  is  no  worser  lad  than  I in  all  the  world. 
As  soon  as  ever  I could,  I served  the  filthy 
Venus,  for  the  hand  of  Pederasts  had  drawn 
me  to  it;  a thousand  members  and  big  ones, 
churned  in  my  inside,  and  day  and  night  my 
anus  was  in  quest.  If  only  my  passive  action 
could  have  profited  my  member,  when  erect 
it  would  have  touched  my  head,  when  limp 
my  feet;  but  nothing  did  it  good,  it  never 
grew.  And  what  I did,  perhaps  only  made 
it  worse.  Every  boy  likes  to  see  his  member 
grow,  get  big  enough  to  amply  fill  his  hand.” 
But  enough  of  pedication;  irrumation  is 
our  next  business. 


Digitized  by  Google 


CHAPTER  III 


OF  IRRUMATION  (57) 

0 put  the  member  in  erection  into 
another’s  mouth  is  called  to  irru- 
mate,  a word,  which  in  its  proper 
sense  means  to  give  the  breast;  in 
fact,  according  to  Nonius,  p,  S79  (Gottfried’s 
edition),  the  Ancients  called  the  bosom  ruma. 
The  verge,  introduced  into  the  mouth,  wants 
to  be  tickled  either  by  the  lips  or  the  tongue, 
and  sucked;  the  party  who  does  this  service 
to  the  penis  is  a fellator  or  sucker,  for  with 
the  Ancients  fellare  meant  to  suck,  also  ac- 
cording to  Nonius,  p.  547.  The  equivalent  to 

fellare  in  Greek  is , 

The  Lesbians  are  believed  to  be  the  inven- 


(57)  You  see  we  follow  the  same  general  order  as  in 
the  Priapeia,  VII. 

“/  warn  you,  boy,  I mean  to  pedicate  you;  with  you, 
my  girl,  I will  copulate.  The  third  penalty  is  kept  for 
the  bearded  ruffian.” 

101 


Digitized  by  Google 


102 


THE  MANUAL 


tors  of  this  particular  nastiness.  The  Scho- 
liast, in  verse  1337  of  the  Wasps  of  Aristo- 
phanes, cites  Theopompus  as  vouching  for 
the  fact. 

This  is  the  reason  why  the  Greeks  apply 
the  expression  “Lesbianize”  or  “Lesbize”  to 
those  who  imitated  the  Lesbian  usages,  either 
as  irrumants,  or  as  fellators.  Suidas:  “Lesbi- 
anize— to  defile  the  mouth;  the  Lesbians  are 
in  fact  believed  to  give  themselves  to  these 
shameful  acts.”  The  same  author  says  under 
the  word,  “Siphnianize, — to  Lesbianize,  that 
is  to  use  the  mouth  abominably  (58)”  Aris- 
tophanes has  employed  the  word  in  the  sense 
of  sucking  {Wasps,  1337). 

“Look,  how  cleverly  I kept  you  away,  when 
you  wanted  to  Lesbianize  the  guests.” 

And  again  in  the  Frogs  1343: 

“Has  this  Muse  never  used  the  Lesbian 
mode?  (59)” 

(58)  Eustathius,  p.  741,  is  very  ambiguous:  “Lesbian- 
ize,— to  commit  a shameful  action.” 

(59)  I do  not  quite  know  whether  the  following  pas- 
sage from  the  Thesmophoriaeusae  (915-917)  refers  to 
this  or  no: 

“Now,  unhappy  girl,  you  long  for  pleasure  after  the 
Ionian  mode.  Besides  I think  you  are  a Labda,  as  is  the 
way  of  the  Lesbians." 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


103 


But  Hesychius  has  employed  it  for  irru- 
mate:  “Lesbianize,  to  defile  a man’s  mouth”. 

Lesbianize  and  Phoenicianize  are  generally 
used  conjointly,  as  though  this  practice  had 
been  equally  common  among  the  Phoenicians. 
Lucian  says  in  his  Apophras  (ch.  26)  : 

“In  the  name  of  the  Gods  tell  me  what  you 
are  thinking  of,  when  it  is  bruited  about  pub- 
licly that  you  Lesbianize  and  Phoenician- 
ize?” 

What  the  difference  between  the  two  may 
be  is  not  known.  At  any  rate  Timarchus,  who 
is  so  bitterly  attacked  by  Lucian,  was  a fella- 
tor,  as  may  be  readily  gathered  from  the  fol- 
lowing. Timarchus,  having  arrived  at  Cyzi- 
cus to  be  present  at  a wedding  feast,  was  turn- 
ed out  of  doors  {ibid.,  ch.  26),  the  mistress 
of  the  house  upbraiding  him  in  these  words 

A fellatrix  seems  to  have  borne  the  name  of  landa, 
by  reason  of  the  first  letter  of  the  word  Lesbianize:  but 
the  passage  stands  quite  isolated,  for  in  that  of  Varro, 
preserved  by  Nonius,  and  referring  to  the  annotation  of 
Scaliger  on  the  Priapeia  LXXVIII,  where  we  find : 
“Depsistis,  decite.  Labdae.” 

The  reading  is  doubtful,  and  the  sense  note  clear.  The 
verse  of  Ausonius,  Epigr.  128: 

“When  he  puts  his  tongue  in,  then  he  is  a Labda," 
has  nothing  to  do  with  this  question,  as  we  shall  show 
later  on. 


Digitized  by  Google 


104 


THE  MANUAL 


for  the  impurity  of  his  mouth : “I  would  not 
have  in  my  house  a man  who  must  have  a man 
himself!”  The  passage  preceding  the  above 
is  still  plainer  and  more  to  the  point:  What 
does  the  man  reproach  Timarchus  with,  who 
has  surprised  him  kneeling  before  a young  lad 
(ibid.,  chap.  21),  and  who  says  farther  on, 
“that  he  had  seen  him  at  work”,  if  this  does 
not  apply  to  a fellator ? Besides,  what  is  the 
meaning  of  that  sore  throat  contracted  by  him 
in  Egypt  (ibid.,  ch.  27),  where  according  to 
rumour,  he  had  been  nearly  suffocated  by  a 
sailor,  who  fell  upon  him  and  stopped  his 
mouth?  Whence  that  nickname  of  the  Cyclops 
(ibid.,  ch.  28),  which  was  given  to  him,  be- 
cause one  day,  when  he  was  lying  drunk  on 
the  ground,  a young  man,  “with  an  upstanding 
stake  exceeding  well  sharpened”,  threw  him- 
self upon  him,  to  force  it  into  his  mouth,  as 
Ulysses  did  with  the  eye  of  the  Cyclops,  “A 
new  Cyclops,  with  the  mouth  open  at  full 
stretch,  you  let  him  burst  your  cheeks”.  It  is 
useless  to  add  to  this  the  passages  with  respect 
to  those  who  repel  his  kisses  (ch.  23),  or  as  to 
the  use  to  which  he  puts  his  tongue  (ch.  25), 
for  it  is  doubtful  whether  they  are  addressed 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


105 


to  a fellator  or  a cunnilingue  (a  licker  of  the 
vulva).  That  Timarchus  was  no  stranger  to 
irrumation,  seems  implied  (ch.  17)  by  the 
apostrophe,  “Are  you  not  all  that?”  the  more 
so  as  previously  Lucian’s  saying:  “If  any  one 
sees  a cinede  do  or  suffer  the  shameful  act...” 
makes  it  apparent  that  the  active  part  was  also 
one  of  the  vices  of  Timarchus.  Lucian  could 
therefore  justly  say  of  this  Timarchus,  that  he 
Lesbianized  and  Phoenicianized,  if  he  wanted 
to  imply  by  one  of  these  words,  “sucking”,  and 
by  the  other,  “irrumating.”  But  it  is  uncertain 
which  of  these  words  means  “to  suck”,  and 
which  “to  irrumate”.  But  what  does  this  mat- 
ter? There  is  no  doubt  that  Lucian  intended 
to  make  this  distinction.  Phoenicianize  might 
even  be  applied  to  a cunnilingue  (60),  an  ex- 
pression which  we  shall  dilate  upon  presently. 
Needless  therefore  in  this  place  to  give  ex- 


(60)  I do  not  know  whether  the  nickname  of  Rodo- 
daphne  (rose-laurel),  given  to  Timarchus  in  Syria  (ibid, 
ch.  27),  does  not  mean  cunnilingue,  as  by  rose  is  under- 
stood the  female  parts,  while  the  laurel  leafs  means  the 
licking  tongue.  This  surname  had  no  doubt  for  Lucian 
an  obscene  sense  which  he  would  not  disclose:  “In  Syria 
they  call  you  Rododaphne,  why?  I should  blush  to  say 
it.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


106 


THE  MANUAL 


amples  of  women  who  allowed  their  vulvas  to 
be  licked. 

Very  remarkable  is  a passage  of  Galen  in 
book  X,  De  vi  simplicium , in  which  he  makes 
a distinction  between  Lesbianize  and  Phoeni- 
cianize,  demonstrating  that  the  one  is  more 
shameful  than  the  other: 

“It  is  worse  for  an  honest  man  to  be  spoken 
of  as  an  eater  of  excrements  than  as  being  a de- 
filer or  a cinede ; and  amongst  the  defilers  we 
execrate  such  as  Phoenici  anize  more  than 
those  who  Lesbianize.  The  latter  I consider 
to  be  doing  what  is  as  bad  as  the  habit  of 
drinking  menstrual  discharge  (61).” 

Galen  means  by  this  that  the  man  who  uses 
human  excrements  as  medicine  is  considered 
worse  than  a fellator  or  a cinede ; that  amongst 
the  fellators  the  Phoenicianists  are  more 

(61)  Here  is  the  preceding  sentence,  which  will  better 
elucidate  Galen’s  meaning:  To  drink  sweat,  urine  or 
menses  is  an  abominable  and  detestable  practice;  human 
excrements  still  more  so,  in  spite  of  what  Xenocrates  has 
written  about  their  beneficial  action  when  applied  in  lieu 
of  ointment  about  the  mouth  or  throat,  or  when 
swallowed.  He  has  also  spoken  of  the  absorption  through 
the  mouth  of  ear-wax.  I myself  could  not  make  up  my 
mind  to  eat  of  them,  though  it  were  to  cure  my  sickness 
right  off.  Of  all  abominable  things  the  most  abominable, 
I think,  are  human  excrements. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


107 


abominable  than  the  Lesbianists.  There  can 
therefore  be  no  doubt  that  he  designates  the 
action  of  the  fellators  by  the  word  Phoenician- 
izing,  and  by  Lesbianizing  that  of  the  irru- 
mants.  In  fact,  as  he  judges  those  the  worst 
who  come  nearest  to  the  eaters  of  excrements, 
he  could  not  detest  less  those  who  defile  their 
mouths  by  fellation  than  those  who  defile  the 
mouths  of  other  people  by  irrumation;  simi- 
larly he  could  not  help  holding  in  abhorrence 
the  cunnilingues  and  the  drinkers  of  menses, 
of  whom  more  later  on. 

But  the  Lesbians  found  imitators.  The  in- 
habitants of  Nola  were  in  bad  repute  amongst 
the  Ancients  in  that  respect;  in  Ausonius, 
Epigr.  LXXI,  Crispa,  a fellatrix,  is  said  to 
practice  the  business  “with  which  an  unpre- 
cedented effeminacy  inspired  the  people  of 
Nola”.  However,  here  is  this  spirited  epi- 
gram in  its  entirety: 

“Over  and  above  the  intimate  joys  of  legiti- 
mate love,  hateful  lust  has  found  out  other 
foul  modes  of  pleasure,  of  the  sort  the  loneli- 
ness of  Lesbos  taught  Hercules’  heir,  of  the 
sort  smooth  tongued  Afranius  in  his  actor’s 
gown  displayed  upon  the  stage,  of  the  sort  an 


Digitized  by  Google 


108 


THE  MANUAL 


unprecedented  effeminacy  inspired  the  men  of 
Nola  with.  Crispa,  with  but  one  body,  yet 
practises  them  all:  masturbates,  fellates,  works 
by  either  orifice, — dreading  to  die  in  vain  be- 
fore she  has  tried  every  mode.” 

To  explain, — of  course  Crispa  did  not  neg- 
lect to  have  herself  entered  in  the  usual  way; 
these  are  “the  intimate  joys  of  legitimate  love” 
Then  she  allowed  herself  to  be  pedicated ; this 
is  the  vice  of  Philoctetes,  the  inheritor  of  the 
arrows  of  Hercules,  as  also  Afranius,  of  whom 
Quintilian  says:  “He  excelled  in  the  Roman 
comedy;  a pity  that  he  polluted  his  plays  with 
infamous  masculine  amours!  He  thus  bore 
witness  against  his  own  morals”  (Inst.  Orat., 
X,  I).  Further  Crispa  did  not  fail  to  allow 
herself  to  be  irrumated,  this  is,  “the  vice  their 
unprecedented  effeminacy  instilled  into  the 
men  of  Nola”.  Lastly  the  whole  is  recapitu- 
lated quite  plainly  in  the  last  line  but  one;  to 
masturbate  is  the  genus,  while  to  fellate,  and  to 
work  by  one  and  the  orther  orifices  are  so 
many  species,  three  altogether. 

There  are  authors  who  think  that  the  cele- 
brated riddle  of  Coelius  in  Quintilian:  Cly- 
taemnestram quadrantariam,  in  triclinio  eoam, 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


109 


in  cubiculo  nolam  ( Instit . Orat.,  VIII,  6 p, 
747),  refers  to  a woman  of  the  name  of  Nola, 
she  being  a fellatrix  after  the  fashion  of  the 
Nolans.  But  I prefer  the  interpretation  of  Al- 
ciatus;  he  believes  that  the  woman  in  question 
was  Clodia,  the  notorious  sister  of  Clodius, 
and  wife  of  Metellus,  called  Coa,  because  she 
liked  coitus  on  the  open  triclinium,  and  Nola 
because  she  refused  the  same  in  bed.  Spald- 
ing evinces  surprise  at  the  want  of  exactitude, 
which  the  word  quadrantaria  would  have  in 
that  case.  To  me  that  appears  like  looking  for 
knots  in  a rush.  Why  should  we  not  suppose 
Clodia,  disgusted,  like  Messalina,  by  the  facil- 
ity of  her  adulteries,  to  have  been  drawn  into 
extraordinary  excesses  (62)  to  such  a point 
that  she  would  no  longer  have  commerce  with 
men  in  the  dark,  but  only  in  the  glare  of  light- 
ed torches,  as  Martial  confesses  in  speaking  of 
himself  (XI,  104) : 

“You  love  the  game  in  the  dark,  I like  it  by 
lamp-light;  my  delight  is  to  make  my  entry 
with  light  to  see  by,” — and  in  the  presence  of 
living  witness,  that  she  might  be  seen,  if  not 

(62)  Tacitus,  Annals,  XI,  26. 


Digitized  by  Google 


110 


THE  MANUAL 


actually  on  her  back,  at  any  rate  going  away 
for  it  or  just  coming  back  afterwards.  Do  you 
think  that  indecency  could  not  possibly  go  so 
far?  What  did  Augustus  do,  whom  Marc  An- 
thony, according  to  Suetonius,  “reproached 
for  having  at  a festival  taken  the  wife  of  a 
Consular  from  the  triclinium  to  a bedroom,  in 
the  presence  of  her  husband,  and  afterwards 
conducted  her  back  to  the  table  with  her  face 
all  on  fire  and  her  hair  in  disorder?”  ( Augus- 
tus, ch.  69).  And  Caligula,  according  to  the 
same  Suetonius,  “when  a guest  at  a wedding- 
feast  said  to  Piso,  who  was  sitting  close  by 
him:  “Do  not  push  up  so  close  to  my  wife!” 
and  immediately  after  made  her  rise  from  the 
table  and  took  her  away  with  him”  ( Calig 
ch.  25).  The  same  author,  {Calig.,  ch.  36), 
speaking  of  the  most  illustrious  Roman  ladies, 
tells  us  that  Caligula  “invited  them  to  dinner 
with  their  husbands,  passing  them  in  review 
before  him,  he  examined  them  with  the  minute 
attention  of  a slave  dealer,  lifting  their  heads 
up  if  any  of  them  bowed  them  down  with 
shame.  As  often  as  he  felt  inclined,  he  left  the 
triclinium  and  took  the  chosen  fair  one  aside 
with  him;  then  after  returning  to  the  room 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


111 


with  the  traces  of  his  doing  still  upon  him,  he 
would  praise  or  criticize  these  ladies  openly, 
speaking  of  the  beauties  or  blemishes  of  their 
bodies,  and  even  how  often  he  had  repeated 
the  enjoyment.”  Horace  again  speaks  of  an 
adulterous  woman  {Odes,  III,  vi,  25-32)  : 

“Soon  she  looks  out  for  fresher  adulterous 
pleasures,  while  the  husband  is  drunk;  and 
does  not  care  to  whom  she  grants  the  furtive 
forbidden  pleasures,  which  with  the  torches 
extinguished,  she  is  ready  to  give  and  take. 
Nay!  she  does  not  care  for  her  very  husband’s 
presence,  and  with  his  knowledge  she  rises  to 
meet  whosoever  may  call,  say  a merchant,  say 
the  commander  of  a Spanish  ship  in  harbour, 
who  buys  her  favours  by  tariff!” 

Again  look  at  the  feast  of  the  Pope,  Alexan- 
der VI,  whom  we  have  already  mentioned  for 
your  profit  and  amusement  in  our  Hermaph- 
roditus (63). 

(63)  We  will  here  reproduce  the  curious  passage  of 
Jean  Burchard,  to  whom  we  owe  this  story.  It  is  taken 
from  his  Diarium,  edited  by  Leibnitz,  in  1696,  p.  77 : 

“On  the  last  Sunday  in  October  the  Duke  of  Valen- 
tinois  had  invited  to  supper  in  his  chamber”  (the  cham- 
ber of  Alexander  VI),  “in  the  Apostolical  palace,  fifty 
beautiful  prostitutes,  called  courtezans,  who,  after  supper 


Digitized  by  Google 


112 


THE  MANUAL 


Is  this  evidence  enough  to  satisfy  you  as  to 
these  Coae  of  the  triclinium?  Well!  it  was 
after  this  fashion  Clodia  preferred  to  be  had. 
Alone  with  a solitary  lover  in  bed  and  no  one 
by,  she  refused  ( nolebat ) ; in  public  on  the  tri- 
clinium, she  was  willing  enough  for  coition 
( volebat  coire).  Hence  the  jest;  she  was  Coa 
and  Nola.  Coelius  might  have  put  it  still  more 
plainly;  on  the  triclinium  she  was  Vola,  in 
bed  Nola. 

It  was  not  the  inhabitants  of  Nola  only  who 
were  addicted  to  the  Lesbian  vice,  the  Oscans 
(64)  generally  were  considered  to  be  very 


danced  with  the  valets  and  other  persons  present,  first 
in  their  clothes,  and  then  naked.  After  this  the  table, 
chandeliers  were  placed  on  the  floor  here  and  there, 
with  lighted  candles,  and  chestnuts  were  thrown  about, 
which  the  courtezans  collected  moving  on  their  hands 
and  knees  quite  naked  among  the  chandeliers,  the  Pope, 
the  Duke  and  his  sister  Lucrezia  being  present  and 
looking  on.  Finally  presents  were  brought  in:  silk 
mantles,  pairs  of  shoes,  head-dresses,  and  other  objects, 
to  be  given  to  those  who  had  copulated  with  the  greatest 
number  of  these  courtesans:  they  were  publicly  enjoyed 
in  the  room  there,  the  lookers-on  acting  as  umpires,  and 
awarding  the  prizes  to  the  victors.” 

(64)  Nola  was  a city  in  the  territory  of  the  Cam- 
panians. It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  Campanian  malady, 
mentioned  by  Horace  (Sat.  I.,  V.,  62),  has  been  con- 
nected with  debauchery,  but  without  sufficient  reason. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


113 


much  given  that  way,  so  much  so  that  certain 
authors  trace  to  them  (the  Osci),  in  earlier 
times  called  the  Opsci  or  Opici,  the  etymology 
of  the  word  “Obscene”,  Festus,  p.  553 : 

“In  almost  all  the  old  treatises  the  word 
is  written  Opicum  instead  of  Oscum;  it  is 
from  the  name  of  this  people  that  shameless 
and  impudent  expressions  are  called  obscene, 
because  indulgence  in  filthy  debauchery  was 
very  common  among  the  Oscans.” 

The  Ancients  employed  many  forms  of  cir- 
cumlocution to  convey  the  meaning  of  their 
filthy  practices.  For  instance,  instead  of  irru- 
mate,  they  said  : to  offend  the  mouth  (65),  cor- 
rupt the  mouth  (66),  to  attack  the  head  (67), 
to  defy  to  the  face  (68),  insult  the  head,  not  to 
spare  the  head  (69),  to  split  open  the  mouth 

(65)  Varro,  is  his  Marcipor,  according  to  Nonius: 
“He  introduced  afterwards  into  his  gullet  the  virile 
verge:  he  offends  the  mouth  of  Volumnus.” 

(66)  Martial  III,  75: 

“You  make  it  your  work  to  corrupt  pure  lips  for 
gold.” 

And  Again  II,  28: 

“Not  even  Vetustilla’s  warm  mouth  give  you  more 
pleasure.” 

(67)  “How  accustomed  he  was  to  assault  the  heads  of 


Digitized  by  Google 


114 


THE  MANUAL 


(70),  gain  the  heights  (71),  mount  to  loftier 


the  most  illustrious  women,  is  plainly  evidenced  by  the 
adventure  of  Mallonia,  who,  debauched  by  him,  refused 
to  submit  to  him  again.  He  caused  her  to  be  accused  by 
his  informers,  and  kept  asking  her  during  her  trial, 
whether  she  had  anything  to  reproach  herself  with. 
Without  waiting  for  the  verdict,  she  ran  home  and 
transfixed  herself  with  a poniard,  upbraiding  loudly  the 
foul,  hairy  dotard  for  having  wanted  to  abuse  her  mouth 
(Suetonius,  Tiberius,  ch.  45). 

(68)  He  was  so  glad  to  have  won  Transalpine  Gaul 
that  he  could  not  help  announcing  some  days  after  in 
the  Senate,  that  he  had  reached  the  fulfillment  of  his 
wishes,  in  spite  of  the  hatred  and  malice  of  his  enemies, 
and  that  he  defied  them  to  their  face.  Somebody  having 
said  to  him  offensively  that  this  could  not  so  easily  be 
done  with  a woman,  he  replied  jokingly,  that  Semiramis 
had  gained  a kingdom,  and  the  Amazons  had  occupied 
a great  part  of  Asia  (Suetonius,  Caesar,  ch.  22).  Caesar 
employed  the  expression:  “defying  to  the  face”  in  the 
honest  sense,  while  his  adversary  invested  it  with  an 
obscene  signification,  in  allusion  to  his  infamous  acts  in 
Bithynia. 

(69)  I speak  of  those  whose  abominable  lasciviousness 
and  execrable  lust  do  not  even  spare  the  head.  (Lac- 
tantius, Ins  tit.  Div.  VI.,  23.)  Similarly  Juvenal  VI.,  v. 
299,  300: 

“For  what  cares  the  drunken  Venus?  She  knows  not 
the  difference  between  groin  and  head.” 

(70)  Martial  II,  72: 

“They  say  Posthumus,  that  they  did  to  you  last  night, 
at  supper,  what  I would  not  have  let  them  do; — who 
could  approve  such  doings?  They  split  your  mouth  I..." 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


115 


regions  (72),  compress  the  tongue  (73),  to  in- 


Then  playing  upon  the  words  rumour  and  irrumate 
he  adds: 

“....As  the  author  of  this  crime,  the  town’s  rumour 
designates  Caecilius.” 

And  again  III,  73,  ibid. : 

"Rumour  denies  you  are  a Cinede”. 

III,  80: 

“Rumour  says,  you  have  an  evil  tongue.” 

And  III,  87: 

“Rumour  says,  Chione,  that  your  vulva  is  intact,  that 
nothing  could  be  purer  than  it.  Yet  you  bathe  without 
covering  the  thing  that  should  be  covered ; if  you  have 
any  shame,  then  put  your  drawers  upon  your  face.” 

Percidere  employed  alone  means  to  pedicate.  Martial 

IV,  48;  VII,  61;  IX,  48;  XI,  29;  XII,  35;  and  Pria- 
peia, XII,  XIV.  Some  copies  have  praecidere  for 
percidere,  but  this  seems  to  be  an  untenable  reading. 

_(71)  Martial,  XI,  47: 

“Why  do  you  plague  in  vain  unhappy  vulvas  and 
posteriors;  gain  but  the  heights,  for  there  any  old  mem- 
ber revives.” 

Priapeia  LXXV : 

“Through  the  middle  of  boys  and  girls  travels  the 
member;  when  it  meets  bearded  chins  then  it  aspires 
to  the  heights.” 

(72)  Priapeia  XXVII: 

“A  footlong  amulet  will  pedicate  you ; if  that  will  not 
cure  you,  I go  higher.” 

(73)  Plautus,  in  the  Amphytrion,  I sc.  1,  192: 


Digitized  by  Google 


116 


THE  MANUAL 


dulge  in  abominable  intercourse  (74),  and  in- 
stead of  receiving  the  member  into  the  mouth 
they  said : to  lend  the  mouth  in  kind  complais- 
ance (75),  work  with  the  mouth  (76),  lick 


“I  shall  compress  to-day  the  wicked  tongue.” 

The  Latins  employed  the  verb  “compress”  for  irru- 
mate,  as  if  it  were  a form  of  fornication ; and  similarly 
“split  open”,  as  if  it  were  a form  of  pedication. 

(74)  Plutarch:  "It  is  reported  that  in  the  night  be- 
fore the  passing  of  the  Rubicon,  Caesar  had  a frightful 
dream;  he  dreamt  that  he  was  indulging  in  abominable 
intercourse  with  his  mother.”  (Lives,  Julius  Ccesar, 
XXXII.)  Hesychius’  interpretation  refers  to  this: — 
to  perform  abominable  acts.” 

(75)  Suetonius:  “A  picture  of  Parrhasius,  represent- 
ing Atalanta  in  the  act  of  complacently  lending  her 
mouth  to  Meleager  was  bequeathed  to  him  with  the  al- 
ternative that  he  might  have  a million  sesterces  instead, 
if  the  subject  offended  him.  He  not  only  preferred  the 
picture,  but  had  it  solemnly  hung  in  his  bedroom.  (Tibe- 
rius, ch.  44.) 

(76)  Horace,  Epode  VIII,  17-20: 

“The  member  of  the  uneducated  is  it  less  rigid?  does 
it  not  long,  like  those  of  lettered  men?  To  make  it  stand 
superbly  from  the  groin,  you  need  but  to  work  it  with 
your  mouth.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY  117 

men’s  middle  parts  (77),  lick  simply  (78),  or 


(77)  Martial  II,  62: 

“A  doubtful  down  did  scarcely  deck  your  cheek,  when 
your  tongue  already  licked  men’s  middle  parts.”  The 
same  III,  81 : 

“Baeticus,  you,  a Gaul,  what  have  you  to  do  with 
the  female  pit?  that  tongue  of  yours  should  lick  men’s 
middles.” 

Ausonius,  Epigr.  CXX: 

“When  Castor  longed  in  vain  to  lick  men’s  middles, 
but  could  take  no  one  home  with  him,  he  found  means  not 
to  lose  all  pleasure  of  the  sort,  fellator  as  he  was ; he 
started  to  lick  his  own  wife’s  organs.”  In  other  words 
from  being  a fellator  Castor  became  a cunnilingue. 

(78)  Martial  III,  88: 

“They  are  twin  brothers,  but  they  suck  different  teats: 
tell  me  are  they  more  unlike  or  like?” 

The  one  was  a fellator,  the  other  a cunnilingue. 

“Again,  VII,  54: 

“You  shall  suck  not  mine,  which  is  honest  and  small, 
but  a member  escaped  from  the  fire  of  Solyma’s  city  and 
condemned  to  tribute.” 

I do  not  know  whence  Scioppius  ( Priap . X),  has  it, 
that  Martial  was  well  furnished ; the  latter  avows  in  that 
passage,  that  his  mentula  was  quite  small.  To  affront 
Chrestus,  he  orders  him  to  lick,  not  his,  but  the  mentula 
of  a Jewish  slave.  He  has  mentioned  this  Jewish  slave 
already  in  Epig.  34  of  the  same  book: 

“My  slave  carries  a heavy  Jewish  parcel  without  skin 
to  cover  it.”  That  means  his  member  is  circumcised, 
the  gland  being  uncovered,  without  prepuce,  in  one 
word,  “reculitus.”  So,  I think,  is  to  be  understood  the 
recutitorum  inguine  virorum  of  Martial  (VII,  29)  : he 
means,  “the  virile  parts  of  circumcised  men,”  the  skin 
of  whose  glands  is  drawn  back.  Recutitus  stands  for  re- 


Digilized  by  Google 


118 


THE  MANUAL 


lastly  to  be  silent  (79).  Just  as  Persius  has 

cinctus,  regelatus,  reseratus.  Many  other  words,  e.g. 
revincire,  similarly  admit  of  two  meaning,  and  thus,  no 
doubt  should  arise  about  Martial’s  expression:  recutita 
colla  mulae  (IX,  58),  which  refers  to  the  mules  having  a 
new  skin  covering  their  necks.  I differ  from  those  who 
think  that  those  were  called  recutiti  whose  prepuce  be- 
gan to  grow  again ; a recutitus  was  to  the  Romans  an 
object  of  contempt.  Petronius:  “He  has  two  faults,  else 
he  would  be  like  any  other  man  recutitus  est  et  sertit.  He 
is  circumcised  and  snores”  (Satyr.,  ch.  28).  It  is  impos- 
sible to  suppose  the  glans  could  have  been  thought  more 
disgusting  covered  by  a new  prepuce  than  with  none  at 
all. 

(79)  A man  that  is  being  irrumated  cannot  speak,  his 
mouth  being  obstructed  by  the  mentula,  thus:  he  is  sil- 
ent. Martial  (III,  96)  says  to  Gargilius,  a cunnilingue, 
menacing  him  with  the  third  punishment,  if  he  should 
catch  him  in  the  fact: 

“If  I should  catch  thee  at  it,  Gargilius,  I’ll  make  thee 
silent.” 

Married  men  were  in  the  habit  of  pedicating  beardless 
adults,  and  of  irrumating  the  bearded  ones.  For  which 
reason  Martial  warns  Gallus  (II,  47)  to  shun  the  seduc- 
tions of  a famous  rakish  lady,  as  he  was  running  the 
risk,  if  taken  by  the  husband  in  flagrante  delicto,  of 
being  irrumated  by  him: 

“Your  buttocks  you  rely  on?  But  the  husband  is  no 
pederast;  he  likes  but  two  ways,  either  mouth  or  vulva.” 

And  for  the  same  reason  he  consents  to  marry  Thel- 
esina  (II,  49) : 

“No  Thelesina  for  me  as  my  wife!  Why? — She  is  a 
prostitute.  Nay!  but  she  pays  young  lads.  Then  I consent.” 

Then  there  is  a complaint  for  having  been  deceived 
with  respect  to  the  lover  of  Polla,  his  mistress  (X,  40)  : 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY  119 

employed  the  word  cevere,  to  wriggle  in  the 
sense  of  flattering,  so  Catullus  uses  irrumate 
as  meaning  to  treat  ignominiously  (80). 


“Constantly  was  I told  that  my  Polla  was  on  intimate 
terms  with  an  unknown  cinede.  Well,  I surprise  them, 
Lupus;  no  cinede  was  he.” 

Instead  of  a lad,  whom  he  would  have  pedicated,  he 
finds  a cool,  experienced  gallant,  not  at  all  likely  to  expi- 
ate his  crime  by  means  of  his  buttocks.  Martial  might, 
however,  have  punished  him  more  cruelly  by  forcing  into 
his  fundament,  either  a mullet  (Juvenal  X,  317) : 

“There  are  adulterers  whom  the  mullet  pierces” ; or  a 
radish.  “In  Armenia,  taken  in  the  act  of  adultery,  he  ran 
away  plugged  with  a radish  in  his  posteriors.”  (Lucian, 
De  Morte  Peregrini, — Works,  vol.  VII,  p.  425.)  Catul- 
lus XV,  18,  19: 

“Drawing  your  feet  asunder,  your  postern  wide  open, 
they  will  insert  into  you  radish  and  mullet.” 

Martial  also  has  used  the  expression  of  being  silent,  in 
the  above  stated  sense  but,  somewhat  more  obscurely,  IX, 

5: 

“If  in  two  apertures  you  can  work,  Galla,  and  can  do 
more  than  double  work  in  both,  why,  Aeschylus,  does  she 
get  tenfold  pay?  She  fellates,  but  that  is  not  a matter  of 
such  price  surely.  Nay!  it  is  because  she  must  be  silent!” 

It  is  not  her  infamy  that  Galla  sells  so  dear;  it  is  the 
inconvenience  of  having  to  be  silent  during  the  process, 
which,  for  a prattler,  “is  a very  serious  matter,”  as  Mar- 
tial says,  IV,  81.  Book  XII,  Epigr.  35,  quoted  later  on, 
also  refers  to  this. 

(80)  It  is  the  same  with  the  word  stuprum.  Festus: 
The  ancients  employed  the  word  stuprum  for  turpitude, 
as  appears  in  the  Song  of  Neleus. 

"Foede  stupreque  castigor  cotidie.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


120 


THE  MANUAL 


It  is  thus  he  complains  of  having  been  ir- 
rumated  by  Memmius  XXVIII.,  9,  10: 

“Oh,  Memmius,  well  and  long  and  leisure- 
ly, laid  on  my  back  all  the  length  of  that  beam, 
you  irrumated  me.” 

He  had,  in  fact,  experienced  in  Bithynia  the 
meanness  and  avarice  of  this  Praetor,  Mem- 
mius, who  had  not  cared  a rap  for  his  com- 
rades’ honour,  and  who  is  alluded  to  in  Epigr. 
X.,  12,  “Praetor  and  irrumator”.  In  Epigr. 
XXXVII.,  he  threatens  his  boon  companions 
in  debauchery,  with  whom  his  mistress  has 
taken  refuge: 

“ Do  you  think  I dare  not  irrumate 

alone,  as  I stand  here,  two  hundred  pothouse- 
heroes?”  And  he  adds  that  he  would  write  on 
the  front  of  the  tavern  the  infamy  of  these 
blackguards: 

“ Your  names  I shall  chalk  up  all  over 

the  tavern’s  front.” 

Other  passages  of  Catullus,  XXI.,  12,  and 
LXXIV.,  5,  are  also  quoted  to  prove  the  var- 
ious employment  of  the  word  irrumate;  but 

( I am  foully  and  disgracefully  beaten  every  day. ) 

Naevius:  “They  would  rather  die  than  return  to  their 
co-citizens  cum  stupro". 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


121 


they  do  not  seem  to  me  to  bear  upon  the  ques- 
tion. 

The  epithet  shameless  was  especially  given 
to  the  man  who  allowed  himself  to  be  pedicat- 
ed  or  irrumated.  Priapeia  LIX. : 

“If  you  come  to  steal,  you  will  return 
shameless.” 

Cicero,  DeOratore,  II.,  257: 

“If  you  are  shameless  before  and  behind...” 
Horace,  Epistle,  I.,  xvi.,  36: 

“If  he  calls  me  a thief,  he  denies  that  I am 
chaste.” 

Lampridius,  Commodus,  ch.  10: 

“Already  as  a child  he  was  a glutton  and 
shameless,  which  is  explained  by  what  he  says 
in  chap.  5 : “He  gave  himself  up  to  the  infam- 
ous abuses  of  young  men  and  to  their  assaults”, 
and  chap,  i:  “From  his  tenderest  age  he  was 
depraved,  mischievous,  cruel,  a libertine;  he 
allowed  his  mouth  to  be  soiled  and  defiled.” 
On  the  other  hand,  a woman  who  had  never 
submitted  to  a man,  was  called  chaste  ( Pria- 
peia XXXI.) : 

“You  are  allowed  to  be  as  chaste  as  Vesta;” 
The  same  epithet  was  given  to  a wife  that  was 


Digitized  by  Google 


122 


THE  MANUAL 


faithful  to  her  husband  such  a one  as  is  prais- 
ed by  Martial  in  Epigr.  X.,  63. 

“My  couch  is  lighted  by  the  rarest  glory, — 
one  member,  one  mentula  alone  has  known 
my  chastity.” 

To  the  preceding  examples  of  fellators  and 
fellatrices  we  will  now  add,  from  Aloysia 
Sigaea’s  book,  that  of  Crisogono,  who  cleverly 
persuades  Sempronia  to  lend  him  her  mouth: 

“The  day  before  yesterday  (it  is  Ottavia 
speaking),  Crisogono  came  to  see  my  mother 
in  the  afternoon.  All  was  quiet  and  silent.  He 
had  scarcely  begun  to  wanton  a little  with  her, 
when  he  became  very  importunate.  “Yesterday 
morning”,  he  said,  “I  learned  a new  kind  of 
pleasure.  One  of  our  grand  personages,  who 
had  certainly  tasted  it,  says  that  there  is  noth- 
ing so  disgusting  and  repulsive  as  those  parts 
of  his  wife  which  stamp  her  as  a woman, — and 
he  has  a very  pretty  wife,  mind!  In  that  sink 
every  thing  is  foul,  while  in  this  (kissing  my 
mother  on  the  mouth),  dwells  the  true  Venus. 
He  therefore  abominates  that  illfavoured  cav- 
ern, and  adores  that  pure  mouth,  that  charm- 
ing head.  He  looks  to  nothing  else,  his  mem- 
ber rises  for  nothing  else.  His  wife  is  as  spirit- 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


123 


ed  as  she  is  beautiful,  and  even  more  obliging. 
She  knows  no  other  pleasure  than  her  hus- 
band’s; what  he  thinks  right  she  thinks  proper, 
and  abets  all  the  caprices  of  her  husband ; so 
she  lends  him  the  service  of  her  mouth.  What 
would  you  do,  Sempronia,  if  I asked  you?  If 
you  were  to  refuse  I should  say  that  you  have 
forgotten  all  your  promises  and  your  pledged 
faith.  You  know  that  Socrates  said,  the  beau- 
tiful body  of  a pretty  woman  is  nothing  but  a 
living  treasure  chamber  of  voluptuousness,  the 
storehouse  whereto  men  resort  to  find  their 
pleasures,  whereto  they  direct  the  burning 
floods  of  their  lubricity.  “What  matter  wheth- 
er you  fulfil  your  duty  through  that  pure  canal 
(kissing  her  mouth),  or  through  that  other 
(touching  below),  which  is  infect?”  He  per- 
suaded her  to  what  she  was  willing  to  do  with- 
out persuasion.  “Oh!”  she  said,  smiling, 
“what  an  air  you  want  me  to  play,  and  upon 
what  a flute,  in  our  concert!”  taking  in  her 
hand  his  member,  which  began  to  rise.  She 
seized  the  point  of  his  dart  between  her  lips 
and  turning  her  tongue  around  it,  caused  novel 
transports  of  delight  to  the  member  that  slid 
into  its  new  receptacle.  But  feeling  that  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


124 


THE  MANUAL 


fountains  of  the  brine  of  Venus  were  on  the 
point  of  bursting  forth,  she  recoiled  with  hor- 
ror. “You  would  not  degrade  me  so  far”,  said 
my  mother,  “as  to  make  me  drink  a man  in  a 
liquid  form?”  She  had  scarcely  spoken,  when 
an  abundant  shower  fell  upon  her  robe.  He 
showed  some  anger,  “How  could  you  be  so 
foolish,”  he  cried,  “as  to  spoil  such  good 
work!”  She  replied:  “Forgive  me,  the  next 
time  you  will  find  me  more  obelient.”  She  kept 
her  word,  and  actually  drank  men  in  a liquid 
state, — a spicy  thing,  for  indeed  the  seed  is 
spicy  with  salt!”  (Dial.  VII.) 

Mancia  also  proved  complaisent  in  that  way 
to  Marino;  Eleanor  tells  it  in  Aloysia  Sigaea: 

“My  cousin,  Mancia,  has  married  a Nea- 
politan of  the  name  of  Marino.  Marino  is 
burning  all  over  with  debauchery.  The  liber- 
tine looks  for  the  woman  in  Mancia  even 
above  the  breasts;  he  wants  her  mouth,  as 
though  the  vulva  of  the  young  wife  had  taken 
refuge  there,  or  as  if  the  mouth  had  made  a 
bargain  with  the  vulva  to  participate  in  the 
games  of  Venus.  I blamed  her  for  allowing  so 
unnatural  an  act.  “What  would  you  have?”she 
said.  Marino’s  instrument  occupies  my  mouth, 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


125 


so  I cannot  complain.  We  please  our  husbands 
only  by  reason  of  being  women.  Never  mind 
where  she  is  taken,  if  a woman  only  proves 
that  she  is  a woman,  she  will  please.”  (Dial. 
VII.) 

So  too  Alfonso  tries  to  engage  Eleanor  her- 
self in  the  same  fashion: 

“Look  you!  Ottavia”,  added  Eleanor,  how 
passionately  loving  Alfonso  is.  Some  days  ago, 
after  having  several  times  plied  his  javelin  in 
the  legitimate  way,  he  presented  it  to  my 
mouth.  “Your  catapult,  my  Alfonso”,  said  I, 
“is  not  made  for  breaching  this  door;  you  are 
mad,  and  you  want  to  make  me  the  same.” 
“No!  I would  fain  have  you  mad,  not  myself; 
for  that  you  love  me,  I owe  to  your  madness, 
not  to  any  merits  of  my  own.  If  I get  delirious, 
I may  forget  the  respect  which  I owe  you,  and 
I would  rather  die  than  cease  to  live  for  you 
alone.”  These  words  softened  my  heart,  and 
decided  me  to  assist  him  in  that  game.  I seized 
his  inflamed  dart  with  a good  heart  between 
my  lips.  But  that  was  all,  his  member  returned 
voluntarily  to  the  place  it  had  left,  and  finish- 
ed its  exploits,  which  it  had  impudently  begun 


Digitized  by  Google 


126 


THE  MANUAL 


above,  properly  in  the  region  of  the  middle.” 
(Dial.  VII.) 

Gonzalvo  of  Cordova  was  another  amateur 
of  this  mode.  Aloysia  Sigaea: 

“Gonzalvo  of  Cordova,  a celebrated  gen- 
eral, is  said  to  have  taken  very  much  to  this 
kind  of  voluptuousness  in  his  old  age.”  (Dial. 
VII.) 

The  prurient  ingenuity  of  Tiberius  invent- 
ed a new  species  of  fellation. 

“His  turpitude  went  still  farther,  to  such  in- 
famous excesses,  that  it  is  as  difficult  to  relate 
them  as  to  listen  to  them;  they  are  scarcely 
credible.  He  caused  little  children,  of  the  ten- 
drest  age  to  be  taught  to  play  between  his  legs, 
while  he  was  swimming  in  his  bath,  calling 
them  his  little  fishes,  to  touch  him  lightly  with 
tongue  and  teeth,  and  like  babies  of  some  little 
strength  and  growth,  though  not  yet  weaned, 
to  suck  his  privates  as  they  would  their  moth- 
er’s breast.  His  age  and  his  inclination  predis- 
posed him  for  this  sort  of  pleasure  before  all 
others.”  (Suetonius,  Tiberius,  ch.  44). 

A representation  of  this  ingenious  libertine 
while  tickled  by  what  he  called  his  little  fish- 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY  127 

es,  is  to  be  seen  on  plate  XVIII.  of  the  Monu- 
ments de  la  vie  privee  des  douze  Cesars. 

Men  advanced  in  age,  whose  member  will 
no  longer  obey  their  will,  are  more  inclined  to 
irrumate  than  others.  To  this  circumstance 
the  passage  in  Martial,  IV.,  50,  refers: 

“No  man  is  too  old  to  irrumate.” 

XL,  47: 

“Gain  the  heights;  there  your  old  member 
will  revive.” 

And  III.,  75: 

“Your  mentula,  Lupercus,  has  long  ceased 
to  stiffen ; nevertheless,  in  your  folly  you  strive 
to  make  it  rise.  You  are  fain  now  to  corrupt 
pure  lips  for  gold;  but  even  so  your  Venus  is 
stimulated  in  vain.” 

For  this  reason  irrumators  are  less  feared  by 
married  men.  Thus  Martial  dealt  more  light- 
ly with  Lupus,  whom  he  had  surprised  while 
irrumating  his  Polla,  in  the  passage  (X.,  40) 
quoted  previously.  The  husband  of  Glycera, 
if  so  be  that  she  had  one,  also  need  not  have 
feared  that  Lupercus  would  do  duty  for  him, 
Martial,  XI.,  41 : 

“Lupercus  loves  the  beautiful  Glycera;  he 
is  her  lord  and  master,  and  he  alone.  He  was 


Digitized  by  Google 


128 


THE  MANUAL 


complaining  bitterly  he  had  not  loved  her  for 
a month;  Aelianus  asked  the  reason, — he  re- 
plied Glycera  had  the  toothache.” 

Lepidinius,  in  the  Hermaphroditus  (I., 
13),  is  of  opinion,  that  anyone  who  has  once 
irrumated  can  never  get  rid  or  renounce  the 
habit.  I must  leave  it  to  experts  to  decide  upon 
this.  So  also  thinks  Aloysia  Sigaea:  “Such  as 
have  once  tasted  it,  are  mad  after  this  pleas- 
ure.” (Dial.  VII.) 

No  wonder  that  after  fellation,  the  mouth 
has  to  be  washed  out  with  water.  Martial  al- 
ludes to  this,  II.,  50; 

“You  lend  your  mouth,  and  then  drink  wat- 
er, Lesbia;  quite  right,  — where  your  work 
is,  there  you  take  water.” 

Priapeia,  XXX.,  says: 

“Walk  in  the  vineyards,  and  if  you  steal  any 
of  the  grapes,  you  shall  have  water,  stranger, 
to  take  in  another  way.” 

Priapus  means:  “You  came  to  get  water  to 
drink;  but  if  you  pluck  any  grapes,  I shall  ir- 
rumate  you,  and  then  you  will  want  water  to 
rinse  your  mouth  rather  than  to  drink.”  Mar- 
tial says  as  much  to  Chione  in  Epigram  III., 
87,  quoted  before. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


129 


To  ask  for  the  loan  of  the  mouth  is  to  de- 
mand a thing  much  more  shameful  than  the 
other  two  orifices.  Martial,  IX.,  68: 

“All  the  night  long  I possessed  a lewd 
young  girl;  I never  knew  anyone  more  naugh- 
ty. Tired  of  a thousand  postures,  I asked  for 
the  puerile  service;  before  I had  done  asking, 
she  turned  at  once  in  compliance.  Laughing 
and  blushing,  I asked  something  worse  than 
that, — the  wanton  consented  instantly”  (81). 

(81)  First  the  rogue  lends  her  vulva,  then  her  buttocks, 
and  lastly  her  mouth.  Some  suppose  the  full-bosomed 
Spatale  of  Martial  (II,  52)  was  just  as  prodigal: 

“Dasius  was  astute  at  counting  the  bathers;  he  asked 
full-bosomed  Spatale  the  fee  of  three  women,  and  she 
paid.” 

But  I believe  they  wrong  the  good  Spatale.  Dasius, 
the  bathing  man,  wanted  only  that  Spatale,  whose  charms 
were  ample  and  buxom,  she  taking  up  as  much  room  as 
three  other  women,  should  pay  for  three. 

The  Phyllis  of  Martial  (XII,  65),  showed  herself  lib- 
eral in  every  way: 

“The  beautiful  Phyllis,  who  throughout  the  whole 
night  had  proved  herself  right  liberal  in  every  way....” 
From  this  you  will  understand  what  Martial  means  by 
“refusing  nothing”  (XI,  50) : 

“I  will  not  deny  you  anything,  Phyllis;  for  you  deny 
me  nothing.” 

And  similarly,  IV.  12: 

“You  refuse  no  one,  Thais.  If  you  know  no  shame  for 
this,  blush  at  least  that  you  refuse  nothing,  Thai's!” 

And  again,  XII,  72: 


Digitized  by  Google 


130 


THE  MANUAL 


Those  that  found  themselves  thus  situated 
took  good  care  not  to  be  surprised;  Martial, 
XI.,  46: 

“When  you  have  crossed  the  threshold  of  a 
chamber  with  name  on  signboard,  whether  it 
be  boy  or  girl  that  smiled  on  you  in  welcome, 
doors  and  hangings  and  locks  do  not  content 
you,  and  you  want  to  be  yet  more  certain  you 
are  not  watched.  Mystery  is  what  you  want; 
you  look  suspiciously  on  the  smallest  crack 
in  the  door  and  stop  it;  the  same  with  the  tin- 
iest pinhole  made  by  some  inquisitive  hand. 
Nobody  can  be  more  modest  or  circumspect 
in  his  doings,  Cantharus,  than  the  man  who 
wants  to  pedicate  or  copulate.” 

“There  is  nothing,  Lygdus,  that  you  do  not  now  deny 
me;  there  was  a time  when  there  was  nothing  you  did 
deny!” 

And  he  says  (XII,  81)  right  out: 

“Whoso  refuses  nothing,  Atticilla,  sucks.” 

It  is  in  this  sense  that  Mallonia  refused  to  be  entirely 
at  the  mercy  of  Tiberius;  she  had  already  admitted  him 
to  her  vulva  and  anus,  but  when  it  came  to  the  mouth 
the  poor  girl  could  not  overcome  her  disgust.  We  have 
before  quoted  the  passage  of  Suetonius.  Of  a woman  who 
refuses  nothing,  Arnobius  (II,  42)  says:  “That  she  is 
ready  to  undergo  anything,”  and  of  a woman  that  is 
drunk,  “so  much  so  as  not  to  able  to  refuse  anything.” 
Ovid  says  ( Art  of  Love,  III,  v.  766)  : 

“She  is  meet  to  undergo  all  kinds  of  assaults.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


131 


However,  the  old  Romans  did  not  blush  to 
irrumate,  as  is  evident  by  the  use  Catullus 
makes  of  that  word,  contemptuous  though  it 
be.  What  they  were  ashamed  of  was  fellation. 
Indeed  there  is  a certain  bold  audacity  in  play- 
ing the  active  part,  but  none  in  the  passive  one 
particularly  when  the  mouth,  the  noblest  or- 
gan of  the  body,  has  to  perform  such  vile  offi- 
ces. Add  to  this  that  a fetid  breath  was  ac- 
quired by  this  habit,  which  fellators  took 
every  means  to  hide,  afraid  of  putting  to  flight 
fellow-guests  at  table  and  acquaintances  who 
should  greet  them  with  a kiss  in  the  street. 

Fellators  were  so  repugnant  to  the  guests  at 
table,  that  no  cups  (82)  were  offered  to  them, 

(82)  Martial,  II,  15: 

“You  do  not  offer  your  cup  to  any  man;  it  is  discret- 
ion, Hermus,  forbids,  not  pride.” 

And  VI,  44: 

“No  one,  Calliodorus  may  drink  from  your  cup.” 

Seneca:  When  Caius  Caesar  accepted  sums  of  money 
for  the  expense  of  the  games  from  friends  who  brought 
them  to  him,  he  refused  to  take  a large  amount  from 
Fabius  Persicus.  His  friends  not  looking  at  the  character 
of  the  sender,  but  at  the  value  of  the  sum  sent,  reproach- 
ed him  for  having  refused.  “What!”  said  he,  “am  I 
to  accept  the  service  of  a man  from  whose  cup  I should 
decline  to  drink?”  ( De  Beneficiis,  II,  21.)  Fabius  Per- 
sicus was  a fellator  not  a cunnilingue ; this  is  apparent 
from  the  controversy  in  which  Seneca  engaged  about 


Digitized  by  Google 


132 


THE  MANUAL 


or  when  they  had  been  offered,  they  were  af- 
terwards broken  (83),  and  that  it  was  only 
with  the  greatest  unwillingness  any  one  would 
kiss  their  mouth  (84),  when  presented  for  sa- 
lute. Thus  it  was  preferable  to  be  taken  for  a 
cinede  to  being  taken  for  a fellator  (85),  like 
Phoebus  in  Martial,  III.,  73: 

him,  viz:  what  a prisoner  should  do  whom  a man  pro- 
mised to  buy  off,  at  the  price  of  having  his  body  prosti- 
tuted, and  his  mouth  sullied. 

(83)  Martial  XII,  75: 

“It  is  no  little  matter,  Flaccus  if  you  drink  with  them; 
and  then  have  to  break  the  cup  they  touched.” 

And  Macedonius  in  the  Analecta  of  Brunck,  III,  116: 

“There  drank  a woman  with  me  yesterday,  whose 
fame  is  anything  but  good ; — go  break  the  cups,  my  lads!” 

(84)  Martial  XI,  96: 

“Every  time  you  happen  to  meet  a fellator's  kisses,  I 
can  fancy,  O Flaccus,  how  you  plunge  your  head  in 
water.” 

And  I,  95: 

“You  sung  but  badly,  Agele,  when  you  were  loved  per 
vulvam.  Now  no  one  kisses  you,  and  you  sing  well.” 

And  I,  84: 

“Your  lap-dog,  Manneia,  licks  your  mouth  and  lips 
I am  not  a bit  surprised ; dogs  like  dirt.” 

Seneca:  “And  mark!  he  made  that  Fabius  Persicus, 
whose  kisses  are  shunned  even  by  people  who  know  no 
shame,  a priest  only  the  other  day.”  {De  Beneficiis,  IV 
30.) 

(85)  It  appears  from  Martial’s  Epigram  (XI,  99), 
that  the  kiss  on  the  mouth  was  the  regular  thing  with  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


133 


“You  sleep  with  youths  whose  members  are 
full  size,  and  what  rises  with  them,  will  not 
rise  with  you.  Pray,  Phoebus,  tell  me,  what 
must  I suspect?  If  I could  think  that  you  were 
but  effeminate!  But  rumour  says,  you  are  not 
a cinedeV' 

The  case  of  Callistratus,  in  XIL,  35  of  our 
author,  is  a similar  one: 

“You  are  very  frank,  Callistratus,  with  me, 
and  you  tell  me  that  they  often  do  it  to  you. 
You  are  not  quite  so  simple,  as  you  would  ap- 
pear; the  man  that  tells  such  things  does  not 
tell  of  others  worse  (86).” 

Romans;  fellators,  therefore,  could  not  be  surprised  at 
their  kisses  being  avoided.  The  poet  of  Bilbilis  makes  yet 
another  mock  at  their  expense  (II,  42) : 

“Zoilus,  why  spoil  the  bath  by  bathing  your  bottom  in 
it?  If  you  would  make  it  still  dirtier,  plunge  your  head 
in.” 

And  VI,  81 : 

“You  bathe,  Charidemus,  as  though  you  had  a grudge 
against  mankind,  entirely  submerging  in  the  bath  your 
privates.  I should  not  like  you  to  wash  your  head  that 
way,  Charidemus;  and  now  look!  you  are  washing  your 
head.  I had  rather  it  were  your  privates!” 

(86)  In  the  last  verse  there  are  two  furtive  stings;  the 
first  is  about  not  telling  (tacet,  — is  silent),  an  expres- 
sion, which  was  used  as  denoting  a fellator;  the  second 
is  the  word  “tell,”  (narrat),  the  honourable  use  of  the 
mouth  being  put  for  the  dishonourable,  as  in  Epistle  III, 
84: 


Digitized  by  Google 


134 


THE  MANUAL 


For  the  same  reason,  as  Charidemus  will  not 
be  called  a patient,  and  shows  his  legs  and 
chest  covered  with  hair.  Martial  tells  him 
(VI.,  56),  to  arrange  himself  in  such  a way  as 
to  appear  a minion  rather  than  a fellator : 
“Because  your  legs  are  covered  with  bris- 
tles, your  chest  with  hair,  you  think,  Charide- 
mus, to  hand  down  your  words  to  posterity; 
take  my  advice,  and  pluck  the  hair  from  all 
over  your  body,  and  get  it  certified  you  depi- 
late your  buttocks.  Why  so?  you  ask. — You 
know  the  world  tells  many  tales;  try  to  make 
them  believe  you  are  merely  pedicated.” 
Fellation,  as  was  but  fair,  received  payment, 
and  high  payment.  Martial  (XI.,  67)  shows 
this: 

“Informer  you  are  and  blackmailer,  swind- 
ler and  trickster,  fellator  and  bully.  The  won- 
der is  you  have  no  money.” 

And  again,  III.,  75 : 

“Your  member,  Lupercus,  has  long  ceased 
to  stiffen;  nevertheless  in  your  folly,  you 
strive  to  make  it  rise.  Of  no  avail  is  cole-wort 
or  salacious  onions,  of  no  use  to  you  the  provo- 

“What  tells  ( narrat ) your  harlot. — No!  I don’t  mean 
your  girl,  Tongilion!  — What  then?  — Your  tongue!” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


135 


cative  savory.  You  are  fain  now  to  corrupt 
pure  lips  for  gold;  but  even  so  your  Venus  is 
stimulated  in  vain.  But, — a thing  to  be  mar- 
velled at  and  scarce  believed, — what  will  not 
rise,  Lupercus,  does  rise  if  you  pay  a heavy 
fee.” 

But  when  on  the  subject  of  fellation,  we 
must  not  pass  over  in  silence  the  raven,  whom 
our  standing  authority  (Martial,  XIV.,  74), 
calls  a fellator : 

“Saluting  raven  (87),  why  do  they  call  thee 
fellator?  Never  a mentula  entered  your  beak.” 
The  fact  is  ignorant  people  believed  the 
raven  fulfilled  the  coitus  with  his  beak: 

Pliny  says : “The  vulgar  herd  believes  that 
it  operates  the  coitus  and  procreates  with  its 
beak.  Aristole  denied  this,  saying  that  ravens 
merely  exchange  kisses  in  the  same  way,  famil- 
iar to  everybody,  that  pigeons  do.”  ( Natural 
History,  X.,  12.) 


(87)  You  will  find  in  Macrobius  ( Saturnalia , II,  4), 
why  he  was  called  saluting.  Augustus  returned  as  victor 
from  Actium;  amongst  those  who  came  to  congratulate 
him  was  a man  holding  a raven,  which  he  had  taught  to 
cry:  “I  salute  thee,  Caesar  Victor  and  Emperor!”  Caesar, 
admiring  this  flattering  bird,  bought  it  for  20,000  secter- 
ces. 


Digitized  by  Google 


136 


THE  MANUAL 


Erasmus  denies  in  his  Adagia,  under  the 
word  Lesbiari  (p.  409  of  the  Frankfort  edi- 
tion, 1670),  that  in  his  time  the  obscene  prac- 
tice of  irrumation  was  still  known : 

“A****  (to  lick),  if  I am  not  mistaken, 
is  with  the  Greeks  the  same  thing  as  fellare 
with  the  Latins.  The  word  indeed  remains; 
but  the  thing  itself  has  been,  I think,  long  done 
away  with.” 

I fear  this  is  not  really  the  case.  At  any  rate 
I am  informed  that  this  practice  is  not  entire- 
ly opposed  to  the  habits  of  libertines  of  the 
present  day;  those  must  decide  whose  oppor- 
tunities take  them  to  great  cities.  Plate  XXL, 
in  the  Monuments  de  la  vie  privee  des  douze 
Cesars  represents  a fellator.  However  the 
graceful  picture  in  question  really  belongs 
more  properly  to  the  category  of  “spintrian 
poctures”,  of  which  more  anon,  than  to  the 
present  chapter. 


Digitized  by  Google 


MANUAL 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


SECOND  VOLUME 


CHAPTER  IV 


OF  MASTURBATION 


O excite  the  member  by  friction  with 
the  hand  until  the  sperm  comes 
spirting  out  of  it  is  what  the  An- 
cients call  masturbation,  from  mas- 
turbare, that  is  manu  stuprare, — to  pollute 
with  the  hand.  This  may  be  done  by  one’s 
own  hand,  or  by  borrowing  someone  else’s. 
If  by  one’s  own,  it  is  generally  the  left  hand 
that  is  employed,  hence  the  expression,  “left- 
hand  whore”  in  Marital  (IX.,  42)  : 

“You  never,  Ponticus,  enter  a woman,  but 
use  your  left-hand  whore,  making  your  hand 
the  mistress  for  your  pleasure;  think  you  this 
is  nothing?  Believe  me,  it’s  a crime,  yes!  a 
crime,  and  worse  than  you  can  imagine.  Old 
Horatius  copulated  once  at  any  rate  to  beget 
his  three  sons;  Mars  once  to  get  chaste  Ilia 
with  twins.  Neither  of  them  could  have 
done  it,  if  by  masturbation  they  had  pro- 


Digitized  by  Google 


140 


THE  MANUAL 


cured  by  the  use  of  their  own  hand  pleasures 
so  shameful.  Believe  me,  that  nature’s  voice 
confirms  it, — what  escapes  ’twixt  your  fingers, 
Ponticus,  is  a human  being.” 

To  the  same  subject  also  Epig.,  XI.,  74  re- 
fers: 

“Oftentimes,  Lygde,  you  swear  you  will 
grant  my  prayer,  even  appointing  the  place, 
even  appointing  the  hour.  Longtime  I lay 
consumed  with  longing,  till  often  my  left 
hand  comes  to  help  in  your  stead.” 

And  this  passage  of  the  Vlth.  book  of  Ra- 
musius,  p.  62  of  the  Paris  edition: 

“What  are  you  to  do?  Is  your  left  hand 
safe  and  sound?  Well  use  it,  then  you  will 
not  want  a whore.  Why  pay  for  what  your 
left  hand  gives  you  gratis?” 

There  were  of  course  also  people  who  used 
their  right  hand;  the  same  Ramusius  of 
Rimini,  book  IV.,  p.  61,  tells  us: 

“I  suffer,  dear  Donatus,  from  so  frightful 
an  erection,  I am  fearful  for  my  member, 
if  you  do  not  help  me.  My  right  hand,  being 
wounded,  can  do  nothing;  I have  no  money; 
Hylas  is  not  here;  no  vulva  opens  for  me — 
no  chance  of  fornication,  appease  my  desire, 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY  141 

that  I may  live,  and  you  can  do  it  cheaply.” 
Pacificus  Maximus,  Elegy  XIL,  p.  126, 
Paris  edition: 

“What  shall  I do?  I am  so  stiff — I’m 
bursting,  and  I could  easily  fill  three  or  four 
large  bottles.  It  is  long  since  my  member 
has  known  a vulva,  long  since  it  has  stirred 
the  entrails  of  a man.  It  is  stiff  day  and 
night,  and  will  never  relax, — night  and  day 
it  lifts  its  head.  No  youth,  no  girl  will  listen 
to  my  prayer,  no  help — my  right  hand  must 
then  do  the  service!” 

We  have  seen  just  above,  with  what  sever- 
ity Martial  reproached  Ponticus,  a mastur- 
bator, for  losing  between  his  fingers  the 
substance  of  a man.  Nevertheless  this  fine 
moralist  did  not  hesitate  to  put  his  own 
hand  to  similar  use  under  the  pressure  of 
erection,  Epigr.  43,  book  II.: 

“Another  Ganymede,  my  hand  assisted 
me.”  and  XI.,  74: 

“Often  my  left  hand  comes  to  my  help  in 
your  stead.” 

Nor  was  his  severity  given  to  whining 
when  he  exhorted  (XI.,  59),  the  cinede 
Telesphorus: 


Digitized  by  Google 


142 


THE  MANUAL 


“Soon  as  ever  you  see  I want  it,  and 
know  that  I am  in  erection,  Telesphorus, 
then  you  demand  a heavy  price, — can  I say 
nay  ( 1 ) ? If  I will  not  swear  to  pay  you,  you 
will  withdraw  those  posteriors  of  yours, 
which  are  so  precious  to  me.  If  with  his 
razor  set  to  my  throat  my  barber,  whilst 
shaving  me,  demands  my  liberty  and  fortune, 
I promise  all;  ’tis  not  the  barber  asks,  but  a 
cut-throat,  and  fear  compels  me  to  say 
‘Yes.’  But  once  I see  the  razor  returned 
to  its  curved  case  and  harmless,  why!  I 
will  break  every  limb  of  the  fellow.  Not 
that  I will  harm  you,  but  my  left  hand  once 
washed,  my  member  will  say  “Go  hang!  to 
your  grasping  avarice  (2).” 


( 1 ) Martial  had  made  use  of  the  same  interrogative 
phrase  with  the  verb  in  the  infinitive  and  puta  put  instead 
of  scilicet  also  in  Epigram  III.,  26.  Hoc  me  puta  velle 
negare?  (Can  I say  nay  to  this?)  Scholars  have  found 
occasion  for  a pile  of  annotations  on  the  two  passages: 
these  need  not  detain  us. 

(2)  Martial’s  meaning  is:  My  left  hand  will  console 
my  suffering  mentula;  the  business  done,  my  hand  cov- 
ered with  the  ejaculation  of  the  sperm,  like  the  fleece  on 
the  pubis  of  Ravola  in  Juvenal  (IX.,  4), — if  indeed  it  is 
the  fleece  of  his  pubis  that  is  intended : 

‘‘Whilst  Ravola  with  wet  beard  rubs  the  groin  of 
Rhodope”  . . . the  greedy  cinede  will  be  told  to  go  to  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


143 


The  same  when  his  wife  surprised  him 
engaged  with  a youth  (XI.,  44), — a witty 
epigram  quoted  above,  as  also  when  he  in- 
tended to  marry  Thelesina  (II.,  49) : 

“Thelesina  makes  presents  to  young  lads; 
all  the  better.” 

The  same  when  he  recommends  somebody, 
I do  not  know  who  (XI.,  23),  to  make  use  of 
the  posteriors  of  Galesius  only,  as  the  part 
that  would  suit  him; 

“Youths  are  divided  by  nature;  one  part  is 
reserved  for  girls,  and  the  other  for  men — 
use  your  own  portion.” 

Is  what  the  pedicon  loses  in  the  anus  of 
the  cinede  anything  else  but  the  substance 
of  a man,  which  the  masturbator  wastes  be- 
tween his  fingers? 

As  it  is  in  the  nature  of  the  virile  member 
to  rise  at  the  mere  sight  of  a pretty  woman’s 
naked  body,  the  amorous  desire  in  that  state 


deuce,  to  slink  off  with  drooping  head,  like  the  man  in 
Horace  ( Satires  II.,  69),  who  finds: 

“Nothing  is  left  to  him  and  his  but  to  weep.” 

This  moist  hand  reminds  us  of  the  adulterous  woman 
in  Juvenal  (XI.,  186),  who: 

“Show  humid  traces  in  the  doubtful  pleats  of  her 
tunic." 


Digitized  by  Google 


144 


THE  MANUAL 


often  craves  imperiously  for  relief,  for  “man 
in  erection  is  not  overwise”  (3).  This  is 
why,  when  the  fair  one’s  heavy  coverlets 
have  been  thrown  back: 

“Meantime  the  adulterer  she  has  sent  for 
lurks  in  furtive  concealment,  and  impatient 
of  the  delay,  yet  says  never  a word,  but  pulls 
his  foreskin  (4).” — Juvenal,  VI.,  236,  7. 
and  why: 

(3)  Suidas  under  the  word  ******,  after  Aelius  Dio- 
nysius apparently. 

(4)  It  was  not  out  of  voluptuousness,  but  for  decency’s 
sake  that  Jews,  who  had  renounced  their  nation,  had 
their  prepuce  redressed  over  the  gland,  as  they  did  not 
wish  it  to  be  seen  that  they  had  been  circumcized,  so 
they  took  means  to  get  their  bare  gland  recovered.  “And 
they  made  for  themselves  new  prepuces”  ( Maccabees , I., 
1.,  15),  “Is  there  anyone  that  has  been  brought  to  believe, 
circumcized?  I yet  him  not  recover  his  gland”  ( Corin- 
thians, I.,  vii.,  18).  Celsus,  De  Medicina,  VII.,  ch.  25: 
“If  the  gland  is  bare,  and  it  is  desired  for  convenience  sake 
to  recover  it,  this  can  be  effected,  but  more  easily  with  a 
child,  than  with  a grown  man,  more  easily  with  the  man 
born  so,  than  with  the  man  who  has  been  circumcized 
after  the  custom  of  certain  people.  After  having  ex- 
plained the  method  of  cure  applicable  to  men,  with  whom 
it  is  a natural  accident,  Celsus  continues:  “With  people 
that  have  been  circumcized,  the  skin  must  be  detached 
behind  the  crown  of  the  gland.  This  operation  is  not 
very  painful  as  the  prepuce  being  loosened,  you  can  draw 
it  with  the  hand  back  to  the  pubis  without  any  loss  of 
blood. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


145 


“The  Phrygian  slaves  would  be  masturbat- 
ing behind  the  doors,  each  time  his  bride 
mounted  the  Hectorean  horse.”  — Martial, 
XI.,  105. 

This  is  why  during  the  dances  of  the  young 
Gaditanian  girls,  which  were  without  doubt 
very  like  the  dances  that  are  still  so  much 
appreciated  by  the  Spaniards  (5),  the  limp 

Then  the  loosened  integument  is  drawn  once  more 
over  and  beyond  the  gland.  This  done  the  verge  is  dipped 
frequently  into  cold  water,  and  then  covered  with  a 
plaster,  which  has  a strong  tendency  to  minimize  inflam- 
mation. As  soon  as  it  is  quite  free  from  inflammation, 
the  verge  is  to  be  bandaged  from  the  pubis  to  the  annular 
incision ; the  skin  is  then  drawn  over  the  gland,  but  kept 
separate  from  it  by  a plaster.  In  this  way  the  lower  part 
of  the  skin  grows  on  again,  while  the  upper  part  heals 
without  adhering.”  From  this  passage  it  would  appear 
that  at  the  time  of  Celsus  the  method  of  laying  bare  the 
gland  which  afterwards  prevailed  with  the  Jews  was  not 
discovered  yet,  by  which,  according  to  Buxtorf  (Diction- 
naire  Talmudique),  after  the  prepuce  has  been  cut  away, 
the  circumcisor  takes  hold  of  the  remaining  skin  between 
the  thin  edges  of  his  thumb  nails,  and  draws  it  forcibly 
back.  If  this  practice  had  been  customary  it  would  have 
been  superfluous  to  separate  the  prepuce  with  the  scalpel. 

I conjecture  from  this,  that  the  Jews  were  called  recutiti 
from  having  this  skin  of  the  gland  drawn  back,  which,  not 
being  done,  the  circumcision  was  not  considered  complete ; 
but  Celsus  makes  me  doubt  this. 

(5)  Julius  Caesar  Scaliger,  Poetica,  book  I.,  p.  64: 
“One  of  these  infamous  dances  was  the  * ***  ** 


Digitized  by  Google 


146 


THE  MANUAL 


appendages  of  even  grey-haired  spectators 
begin  to  move  visibly,  as  many  authors  tell 
us.  Martial,  VI.,  71 : 

“Cunning  in  the  wanton  gestures  that  go 
with  the  Baetician  castanets,  skilled  in  danc- 
ing to  the  Gaditanian  measures,  she  might 
well  stiffen  trembling  Pelias,  and  excite 
Hecuba’s  husband  to  emulate  vigorous  Hec- 
tor.” 

Juvenal,  XI.,  162-165: 

“Perhaps  you  may  wait  while  the  Gadita- 
nian dancer  begins  to  feel  the  wanton  stim- 
ulus of  the  loud  strains  of  her  accompanying 
band,  and  the  girls,  fired  by  the  applause 
sink  to  the  ground  with  quivering  buttocks, 
— a sight  to  sting  languid  senses  to  love.”  (6) 

meaning  wriggling  the  haunches  and  thighs,  the  crissare 
of  the  Romans.  In  Spain  this  abominable  practice  is  still 
performed  in  public. 

(6)  Do  not  miss,  reader,  the  motive  of  this  dance,  with 
their  buttocks  wriggling  the  girls  finally  sunk  to  the 
ground,  reclining  on  their  backs,  ready  for  the  amorous 
contest.  Different  from  this  was  the  Lacedaemonian 
dance  ******  when  the  girls  in  their  leaps  touched 
their  buttocks  with  their  heels.  Aristophanes  in  the 
Lysistrata,  82: 

“Naked  I dance,  and  beat  my  buttocks  with  my  heels.” 
Pollux,  IV.,  ch.  24:  “As  to  the  * **  * **,  this  was  a Lac- 
onian dance.  There  were  prizes  competed  for,  not  only 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


147 


But  it  is  not  only  by  the  sight  of  a beautiful 
naked  female  the  member  is  excited;  who 
does  not  know  that  it  is  also  roused  merely 
by  images  called  up  by  the  imagination,  par- 
ticularly in  the  night.  And  the  power  of 
such  fancies  is  such  as  to  provoke  a pleasur- 
able ejaculation  of  sperm.  Priapus  himself 
has  experienced  this.  Priapeia  XLVIII: 
“You  see  this  organ  after  which  I am 
called  by  my  name  Priapus,  is  wet;  this 
moisture  is  not  dew,  nor  yet  hoar-frost.  It 
is  the  outcome  given  of  its  own  sweet  will, 
on  recalling  memories  of  a complaisant 
maid.” 

It  is  said  that  Diogenes,  the  cynic,  was  a 
masturbator;  once  caught  in  the  act  of  hand- 

amongst  the  young  men,  but  also  amongst  the  young 
girls;  the  essence  of  these  dances  was  to  jump  and  touch 
the  buttocks  with  the  heels.  The  jumps  were  counted 
and  credited  to  the  dancers.  They  rose  to  a thousand  in 
the  **  ***  * ! !” 

Yet  more  difficult  was  that  kind  of  dance  which  was 
called  ****,  in  which  the  feet  had  to  touch  the  shoulders. 
Pollux,  ibid. : The  ****  were  dances  for  women : they 
had  to  throw  their  feet  higher  than  their  shoulders.” 

This  kind  of  dance  is  not  unknown  in  more  modern 
times.  J.  C.  Scaliger,  Poetica,  book  I.,  p.  651 : “To  this 
day  the  Spaniards  touch  the  occiput  and  other  parts  of  the 
body  with  their  feet.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


148 


THE  MANUAL 


ling  his  mentula,  he  said:  “I  wish  to  heaven 
I could  in  the  same  way  satisfy  my  stomach 
with  friction  when  it  barks  for  food.”  (7) 

When  the  masturbation  is  done  by  the  loan 
of  another  person’s  hand,  it  is  possible  that 
the  pleasure  is  participated  on  the  part  of 
the  agent. 

It  forms  part  of  the  business  of  a courtezan 
to  be  clever  with  her  fingers;  a languid  mem- 
ber may  by  their  use  be  invigorated.  The 
inertness  of  the  virile  member  may  be  caused 
by  the  inconveniences  of  age,  and  this  either 
on  the  part  of  the  woman,  as  in  Martial, 
VI.,  23: 

“You  require  my  penis,  Lesbia,  to  be  ever 
in  erection  for  you ; believe  me  a man’s  mem- 
ber is  not  like  a finger.  True,  you  strive  to 
excite  me  with  hands  and  tender  words,  but 


(7)  Diogenes  Laertius,  VI,  2,  46:  “One  day,  whilst 
masturbating  himself  in  the  middle  of  the  market  he  said: 
“I  wish  to  heaven  that  I could  prevent  my  stomach  from 
being  hungry  by  rubbing  it.”  Plutarch,  De  Stoicorum 
repugnantiis,  1044,  vol.  II,  of  his  works:  “Chrysippus 
praised  Diogenes  for  masturbating  himself  in  public,  and 
for  saying  to  the  bystanders:  “Would  to  heaven  by  rub- 
bing my  stomach  in  the  same  fashion,  I could  satisfy  my 
hunger.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


149 


your  face  is  a stubborn  fact  and  counteracts 
all  your  efforts.” 

and  again  in  the  same  author,  XI.,  30: 
“When  you  set  your  old  hand  the  task  of 
rousing  my  member,  your  thumb,  my  Phyllis, 
will  but  strangle  me.” 
or  of  the  man,  Martial,  XI.,  47 : 

“Only  in  dreams  you  get  stiff  (8),  Maev- 
ius, and  your  verge  begins  to  make  water 
right  onto  your  own  feet;  in  vain  your 
wearied  fingers  ply  your  wrinkled  member, 
— rouse  it  as  you  may,  it  will  not  raise  its 
drooping  head.”  (9) 

Aristophanes  in  the  Wasps,  735-38: 

(8)  Mark  with  what  minuteness  the  Ancients  scru- 
tinized nature ; with  what  ingenuity  they  gave  expression 
to  all  their  sentiments!  Who  dares  nowadays  write  such 
a verse  describing  as  a natural  thing  what  might  be  but  a 
solecism  of  his  mentula. 

(9)  Bassus,  who  was  in  the  habit  of  taking  his  pleas- 
ures with  young  minions,  longhaired  and  slim,  set  the 
hands  of  his  wife  to  work  to  excite  his  mentula,  when  he 
came  back  to  the  conjugal  couch  fatigued  and  languid. 
Martial,  XII.,  99: 

“You  tire  yourself,  oh  Bassus,  but  with  minions,  paying 
them  from  the  dowry  of  your  wife ; thus  when  you  return 
to  her  side,  that  member  bought  at  the  price  of  many 
million  sesterces,  lies  languid.  In  vain  her  tender  thumb 
tries  to  excite  it,  vain  are  her  tender  words,  it  will  not 
stand.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


150 


THE  MANUAL 


“Yes,  I will  nurse  him  and  get  him  all  that 
is  wanted  for  an  old  man : beef  broth  to  lap, 
soft  wool,  and  a rug  to  keep  him  warm,  and 
a courtezan  to  rub  his  member  and  his 
loins  . . .” 

The  same  author,  ibid.,  v.  1334,  35: 

“.  . . The  cable  is  rotted  away,  yet  is  it 
still  fond  of  being  rubbed.” 

Nor  is  it  unwelcome  to  men  in  the  vigor  of 
life,  and  who  are  fit  to  caress  young  girls,  to 
have  mistresses  whose  hands  are  not  lazy  in 
bed,  and  whose  fingers  know  how  to  act  in 
the  dark  regions  where  the  arrow  of  love 
is  hidden.  Martial  (XI.,  105),  complains 
about  the  unseemly  gravity  of  his  wife,  which 
forbade  her  to  render  him  that  service: 

“You  will  not  help  me  on  by  movement  or 
by  word,  nor  yet  with  your  fingers,  as  though 
you  were  preparing  the  incense  and  the  wine 
for  sacrifice  (10).” 

Penelope,  on  the  other  hand,  contented 


(10)  The  women  of  Aristophanes  (Lysistrala,  v.  227) 
threatened  their  husbands  with  a similar  rigidity  of  body: 
“Though  you  may  have  your  way,  I shall  be  crabbed 
and  never  move.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


151 


Ulyses  well  that  way,  as  Martial  has  it  in 
the  same  epigram: 

“Chaste  though  she  was,  when  the  king 
of  Ithaca  lay  snoring,  Penelope  liked  to 
have  her  hand  always  on  it.” 

Ovid’s  mistress  did  him  the  same  service, 
but  all  in  vain  one  miserable  night,  when  a 
hostile  divinity  seemed  to  have  smitten  to 
death  that  most  pitiful  part  of  him,  to  use 
his  own  expression,  and  the  girl,  in  order 
that  the  servants  might  not  think  that  she 
had  remained  untouched,  pretended  to  make 
her  ablutions  all  the  same  ( Amores , III., 
viii.,  73,  74) : 

“My  darling  did  not  distain  even  to  put 
her  hand  to  it  and  gently  try  to  rouse  it.” 

This  virtue  of  the  fingers  in  procuring 
erection  is  alluded  to  by  Juvenal  (VI.,  195, 
96)  : 

“.  . . How  well  a soft  and  libertine  voice 
will  erect  your  member;  it  is  as  good  as 
fingers  1” 

The  author  of  the  Priapeia  was  also  well 
aware  of  the  fact;  LXXX.: 

“My  member  is  not  very  long  nor  very 


Digitized  by  Google 


152 


THE  MANUAL 


“My  member  is  not  very  long  nor  very 
thick, — handle  it,  and  you’ll  see  it  grow  apace.” 
And  so  was  Janus  Dousa,  quoted  by  Sciop- 
pius  a propos  of  this  same  Priapeia,  cleverly 
scenting  out  the  man’s  character: 

“Dousa,  commenting  upon  Petronius,  in- 
forms us  that  he  knows  by  home  experience 
how  this  object  grows  in  thickness  and  length 
when  shampooed  by  a woman.” 

You  can  estimate  the  importance  of  this 
function  by  the  value  set  by  the  Ancients,  as 
in  our  days  by  the  Turks,  upon  shampooers, 
meii  and  women,  who  are  employed  for  man- 
ipulating the  joints  with  artistic  expertness, 
their  fingers  softly  pressing  and  turning  them, 
and  their  hands  kept  soft  by  the  constant 
use  of  gloves,  kneading  tenderly  all  the  limbs. 
Seneca,  Letter  LXVI. : 

“Would  I rather  offer  my  limbs  for  sham- 
pooing to  my  superannuated  minnons?  or  to 
some  little  woman,  or  some  weakling  man, 
more  woman  than  man,  to  draw  and  crack 
my  fingers?  Should  I not  rather  envy  yonder 
Mucius,  who  put  his  hand  in  the  fire  with 
the  same  equanimity  as  though  he  tendered 
it  to  a shampooer.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


153 


Martial,  III.,  82: 

“A  woman  shampoos  your  body  all  over 
with  nimble  skill;  her  trained  hand  manipu- 
lates all  your  members.”  (11) 

John  of  Salisbury  states  in  his  Policraticus, 
book  III,  ch.  13,  after  some  ancient  author, 
perhaps  Clearchus,  as  Lipsius  thinks: 

“When  a rich  libertine  turns  in  his  luxuri- 
ous ways  to  effeminacy,  a youth  with  frizzled 
hair  takes  before  all  the  world  his  feet  while 
he  is  lying  on  his  couch,  and  shampoos  them 
and  his  legs,  not  to  go  further,  with  his  deli- 
cate hands.  That  youth  is  always  wearing 
gloves,  so  as  to  preserve  them  white  and  soft 
for  the  benefit  of  rich  people.  Then,  using 
his  hands  more  licentiously,  he  runs  them 
over  all  the  body  with  impudent  touchings 
and  ticklings,  raising  the  desires  and  stirring 
the  amatory  flames  of  his  employer.” 

I may  very  well  describe  here,  for  I could 
not  find  a better  place,  a performance  for 
which  the  friendly  hand  of  a woman  is  in 

(11)  He  had  a hand  of  no  less  experience  (Juvenal, 
VI.,  422-23),  that  cunning  shampooer  who  put  his  fingers 
to  the  lady’s  clitoris. 

“And  made  his  mistress’s  thigh  resound  beneath  his 
hand  high  up.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


154 


THE  MANUAL 


request,  but  of  a woman  that  is  an  expert, 
which  will  gently  press  your  testicles  and 
stroke  your  thighs;  it  is  said  that  nothing 
can  be  pleasanter  or  more  voluptuous.  Aloy- 
sia  Sigaea  describes,  with  her  inexhaustible 
ingenuity,  such  a scene,  executed  by  Ottavia 
and  Roberto,  with  the  assistance  of  Manilia; 
the  fullness,  variety  and  richness  of  the  de- 
scription, placed  in  the  mouth  of  Ottavia, 
are  admirable: 

“Manilia  then  conducted  us  to  the  trysting 
place;  she  undressed  me,  and  placed  me 
naked  on  the  couch.  Roberto  jumped  on  to 
the  couch.  “Now,”  he  said,  “I  shall  enjoy 
the  most  supreme  unalloyed  bliss.  Carried 
on  your  chariot,  Olympia,  I shall  take  my 
way  through  this  dark  thoroughfare  (he  was 
pinching  my  pubis  the  while),  I shall  take 
my  way  to  glory.”  His  hands  were  straying 
over  my  belly,  my  thighs,  examining  every- 
thing. His  member  was  swelling.  “Permit 
me,  my  Venus!”  he  said,  giving  me  a kiss. 
“Willingly,”  I answered,  “you  shall  have  me 
in  any  way  you  like.”  Manilia  interposed, 
“Why  so  much  talk!  Do  not  talk  but  act! 
I will  assist  both  of  you,  and  add  new  de- 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


155 


lights  to  your  voluptuous  sensations.  You 
are  in  excellent  trim,  Roberto  1 Come,  down 
with  you  upon  Ottavia’s  snowy  bosom,  and 
have  your  fill!”  Roberto  precipitates  him- 
self upon  me,  and  his  engine  strikes  against 
my  belly.  Manilla’s  soft  hand  intercepts  the 
erring  tool.  “Come,”  she  says,  “you  vagrant, 
enter  the  lovely  prison,  and  do  the  task 
set  to  you  by  your  mistress.”  With  her  other 
hand  she  pushes  the  young  man’s  back,  and 
I take  him  in,  entirely  in.  Manilia  tells  me 
not  to  move.  “Raise  your  left  thigh,  Otta- 
via,”  she  says,  “and  stretch  out  the  other  one.” 
I obey.  “You,  Roberto,  you  now  push  gently 
and  quickly;  As  to  you,  Ottavia,  kiss  him 
but  without  moving!”  We  do  so.  She  add- 
ed, “When  you  both  feel  the  boiling  foam 
running  over,  you,  Ottavia,  give  a sigh,  and 
you,  Roberto,  gently  bite  Ottavia’s  lips!” 
He  then  begins  to  poke  vigorously,  but  with- 
out haste  or  violence,  in  and  out;  I press  him 
on  to  me,  kissing  him  but  not  moving.  I 
feel  it  coming.  I sigh,  “Now!  now,  Rober- 
to!” cries  Manilia,  “help  Ottavia!  Work 
away!”  He  shakes  me  and  pounds  me.  Soon 
I feel  a slight  bite  on  my  neck.  I heave  a 


Digitized  by  Google 


156 


THE  MANUAL 


sigh.  “And  now,  Ottavia,”  cries  Manilia, 
“you  assist  Roberto;  move  your  buttocks 
briskly,  raise  up  your  loins,  quick!  quick! 
Well  done,  my  child!  “Lais  herself,  I think, 
could  not  have  shown  more  flexibility  nor 
agility!”  The  sweet  youth  begins  to  ejacu- 
late, and  I feel  my  inside  inundated  by  the 
fiery  spring  of  love.  I moved  with  body  and 
soul.  I never  arrived  more  quickly  at  the 
acme  of  voluptuousness.  Manilia  caressed 
with  one  hand  my  buttocks,  and  with  the 
other  hand  Roberto’s;  at  the  same  time  she 
pressed  with  the  points  of  her  fingers  the  lips 
of  my  vulva  and  his  testicles,  which  were 
close  up.  The  youth  swooned,  and  our  nurse 
withdrew,  and  clapped  her  hands  applaud- 
ing!” (Dialogue  VII.) 

Plates  IV.  and  XII.,  in  the  Monuments  de 
la  vie  privee  des  douze  Cesars,  show  you 
Cleopatra  titillating  with  a delicate  hand  the 
virile  parts  of  Julius  Caesar  and  Mark  An- 
thony, while  in  the  Monuments  du  culte 
secret  des  dames  romaines;  plate  XVI.,  rep- 
resents Livia  bestowing  the  same  caresses  on 
Augustus;  plate  V.,  a Bacchante  doing  it  to 
a Faun;  plate  IV.,  a masturbator — expressly 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


157 


so  called.  In  plate  XLIV.  of  the  Monu- 
ments de  la  vie  privee  des  douze  Cesars, 
again,  is  a picture  of  a girl  helping  Tiberius 
with  her  benevolent  hand  in  pedicating  Otho. 

Again  it  sometimes  happened  that  lewd 
men  found  pleasure  in  handling  the  genital 
parts  of  other  men.  Martial  knew  nothing 
more  infamous  (XI.,  23)  : 

“That  your  coarse  lips  should  receive  the 
delicate  kisses  of  fair-skinned  Galesus,  that 
you  should  sleep  with  your  naked  Ganymede 
— is  not  this  enough  yet?  It  ought  to  be! 
Cease  at  any  rate  to  touch  the  privates  with 
provocative  hand.  With  boys  of  tender  age 
this  does  more  harm  than  the  member  does. 
The  fingers  hasten  virility  and  make  them 
prematurely  men.  Hence  the  goaty  smell, 
the  quick-coming  hairs,  and  the  beard  that 
make  the  mother  wonder,  while  they  no  more 
love  to  bathe  in  the  open  light  of  day. 
Nature  has  divided  boys;  one  part  is  reserved 
for  girls,  the  other  for  men.  Keep  to  the 
part  which  is  yours.” 

Martial  means  to  say  that  the  member  was 
given  to  boys  for  the  purpose  of  using  it  with 
girls,  while  their  buttocks  were  for  the  serv- 


Digitized  by  Google 


158 


THE  MANUAL 


ice  of  men,  and  that  this  pedicon  should 
therefore  make  use  of  Galesus’  buttocks 
rather  than  play  with  his  mentula.  Of  sim- 
ilar import  is  also  Epigram  XI.,  71,  directed 
against  Tucca,  who  wanted  to  sell  young 
lads: 

“Oh,  for  shame!  there  is  the  groin  with 
the  tunic  all  open,  and  a member  appears 
fashioned  and  trained  by  your  hand.” 

He  says  it  is  a crime  to  put  up  for  sale 
those  lads  whom  the  infamous  Tucca  has 
trained  for  debauchery,  and  to  let  the  buyers 
see  their  fully  formed  mentulas,  accustomed 
to  rise  under  the  provocative  hand  of  the 
master.  Eumolpus  subjects  in  the  same  way 
the  verge  of  Encolpus  to  friction,  Petro- 
nius, chap.  140: 

“After  these  words”  (Encolpus  speaking) 
“I  lifted  up  my  tunic,  and  exhibited  myself 
in  full  vigor  to  Eumolpus.  He  first  recoiled 
as  if  horror-struck;  but,  like  a man  who  ex- 
pected worse,  he  got  hold  with  his  two  hands 
of  God’s  gift,  viz.:  the  verge  in  erection.” 

I have  still  to  treat,  in  order  to  complete 
my  task,  of  other  pleasures  belonging  to  this 
category,  meaning  those  which  can  be  taken 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


159 


in  any  interstice  of  the  body.  A few  words 
will  suffice.  Taking  in  the  first  place  the 
breasts,  I have  recourse  to  Aloysia  Sigaea: 
“By  the  twin  conch-shells  of  Venus!”  (Dia- 
logue VII.,  Ottavia  speaking.)  “I  am 
ashamed.  I blush  to  think,  that  the  valley 
between  my  breasts  has  done  duty  as  the 
avenue  of  Venus.  You  know  there  is  in 
our  house  a gallery  giving  on  the  garden- 
parterres,  which  are  full  of  all  sorts  of  flow- 
ers. There  Caviceo  and  I were  promenad- 
ing; he  embraced  me,  kissed  me,  bit  my  lips. 
. . . He  put  his  left  hand  in  my  bosom.  ‘I 
am  after  trying  a naughty  trick,’  he  said. 
‘Undress,  my  darling!’  What  was  I to  do? 
I undressed.  His  eyes  rested  on  my  bare 
bosom.  ‘I  see,’  he  said,  ‘Venus  sleeping  be- 
tween your  breasts.  May  I waken  her!’ 
While  he  was  talking  he  had  thrown  me  on 
my  back  in  the  bed,  and  being  in  a noble 
state  of  erection,  slides  his  hot,  burning  mem- 
ber between  my  breasts.  How  could  I es- 
cape his  blind  passion.  I had  no  choice  but 
to  bear  it.  His  hands  softly  pressed  my 
breasts  together,  so  as  to  narrow  the  space, 
in  which  his  mentula  had  to  travel  towards 


Digitized  by  Google 


160 


THE  MANUAL 


a new  experience.  Why  make  a long  story? 
Stupefied  as  I was  at  this  vain  ridiculous 
imitation  of  Love,  he  inundated  me  with  a 
burning  libation : he  had  his  will.” 

As  to  other  interstices  of  the  body,  e.  g.  the 
armpits,  between  the  thighs,  the  calves,  the 
buttocks  (mind,  I do  not  say  the  anus,  but 
between  the  buttocks),  be  it  enough  to  men- 
tion Heliogabalus;  Lampridius,  ch.  5: 

“How  put  up  with  a Prince  who  sought 
for  pleasure  in  every  cavity  of  the  body, 
when  you  would  not  suffer  a brute  beast  to 
do  as  much?” 

Also  Commodus,  according  to  the  same 
Lampridius,  ch.  5: 

“He  gave  himself  up  to  the  infamous  as- 
saults of  young  men,  polluting  every  part  of 
his  body,  even  his  mouth,  and  that  with  either 
sex,” — i.  e.  he  was  both  a fellator  and  a cun- 
nilingue. 

Is  it  necessary  to  speak  here  of  the  debau- 
chery of  those  who  assault  the  corpses  of  fe- 
males, or  statues?  This  is  not  real  coitus, 
there  being  no  two  parties  to  the  act.  Never- 
theless, according  to  Herodotus  (II.,  89),  in 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


161 


Egypt  a man  was  taken  in  the  act  of  abusing 
the  corpse  of  a woman  just  dead : 

“It  is  said  that  a man  was  surprised  in 
the  act  of  working  in  the  fresh  corpse  of  a 
woman,  and  denounced  by  a fellow-work- 
man.” 

In  consequence  of  this  a law  was  promul- 
gated forbidding  the  corpses  of  noble  and 
beautiful  women  to  be  given  into  the  hands 
of  the  embalmer  until  three  or  four  days 
after  their  decease.  And  who  does  not  know 
the  story  of  the  Venus  of  Cnidos,  the  work 
of  Praxiteles,  as  related  by  Pliny,  Historia 
Naturalis,  XXXVI.,  ch.  5: 

“It  is  related  how  a certain  youth  fell  in 
love  with  her,  and  having  hidden  himself 
one  night  in  the  temple,  cohabited  with  the 
statue,  leaving  a stain  as  the  mark  of  the 
gratification  of  his  passion  upon  the  marble.” 

There  is  a similarity  in  this  with  the  mis- 
take made  by  a bull  which,  according  to 
Valerius  Maximum,  VIII.,  ch.  II.,  fell  in 
love  with  a bronze  cow,  and  copulated  with 
the  same  at  Syracuse,  being  deceived  by  the 
perfection  of  the  resemblance. 


Digitized  by  Google 


CHAPTER  V 


CUNNILINGUES 

E have  now  said  enough  about  the 
work  of  Venus  performed  by  the 
virile  member;  it  remains  for  us  to 
explain  how  a sacrifice  may  be 
offered  to  Venus  without  one.  This  may  be 
done  by  means  of  the  tongue  or  of  the  clitoris. 
We  have  accordingly  first  to  treat  of  the 
cunnilingues,  those  who  lick  women’s  priv- 
ates and  then  of  the  tribads. 

As  it  is  the  office  of  the  fellator  or  fellatrix 
to  suck  the  virile  parts,  so  it  is  the  business  of 
cunnilingues  to  lick  the  female.  The  cunni- 
lingue  operates  by  introducing  his  tongue  into 
the  vulva.  Martial  (XI.,  62)  has  described 
his  monstrous  act  very  clearly: 

“Manneius,  husband  with  his  tongue,  adul- 
terer with  his  mouth, — more  foul  than  the 
mouths  of  harlots  of  the  Summoenium; 
whom  seeing,  as  he  stood  naked,  from  a win- 

163 


Digitized  by  Google 


164 


THE  MANUAL 


dow,  the  filthy  procuress  closed  her  brothel; 
whose  middle  she  had  rather  kiss  than  his 
head.  He  who  of  old  knew  all  the  channels 
of  the  inwards,  and  could  declare  with  a sure 
and  certain  voice,  whether  ’twas  a boy  or 
girl  in  the  mother’s  belly  (be  glad,  all  vulvas, 
for  your  part  is  done),  can  no  longer  erect 
his  fornicating  tongue.  For  lot  as  he  lurks 
with  tongue  plunged  in  the  swelling  vulva 
and  hears  the  babes  wailing  inside  their 
mother,  a shocking  malady  paralyses  his 
greedy  mouth, — and  now  he  can  no  more  be 
either  clean  or  unclean.” 

By  the  same  paralysis  of  the  tongue  Zoilus 
was  struck;  Martial,  XI.,  86: 

“An  evil  star,  Zoilus,  has  struck  your 
tongue  of  a sudden,  even  while  licking  a 
vulva.  Of  a surety,  Zoilus,  you  must  now 
use  your  member.” 

Baeticus,  the  castrated  priest  of  Cybele, 
against  whom  Martial  has  directed  Epigram 
III.,  81,  was  a cunnilingue: 

“What  have  you,  Baeticus,  a priest  of  Cy- 
bele to  do  with  the  female  pit?  That  tongue 
of  yours  by  rights  should  lick  men’s  middles. 
For  what  was  your  member  amputated  with 


Digitized  by  Googl 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


165 


a Samian  potsherd,  if  the  woman’s  parts  had 
so  much  charm  for  you?  You  must  have 
your  head  castrated;  true,  you  are  a castrated 
Gallus  in  your  secret  parts,  but  none  the 
less  you  violate  the  rites  of  Cybele;  you  are 
a man  so  far  as  concerns  your  mouth.” 

If  this  passage  were  in  the  least  doubtful, 
Epigram  77  of  the  same  book  might  offer 
difficulties,  not  otherwise: 

“Some  latent  sickness  of  your  stomach  I 
suspect.  Why,  I wonder,  Baeticus,  are  you 
an  eater  of  filth?” 

In  fact  the  fellator  as  well  as  the  cunni- 
lingue  may  be  called  eaters  of  filth,  as  in  the 
passage  of  Galen  quoted  previously,  where 
both  of  them  are  called  coprophagi  (dung- 
eaters).  Baeticus  however  has  only  to  do  with 
the  female  pit;  he  is  a cunnilingue,  not  a 
fellator.  On  the  contrary,  the  lewd  tongue 
of  Tongilion  (III.,  84)  is  that  of  a fellator, 
not  of  a cunnilingue ; for  the  tongue  of  a 
cunnilingue  plays  the  part  of  a lover,  being 
active ; while  that  of  a fellator  acts  the  part  of 
a prostitute,  remaining  passive.  Sometimes 
for  want  of  attention  the  most  learned  com- 
mentators are  at  fault  in  elucidating  these 


Digitized  by  Google 


166 


THE  MANUAL 


playful  passages.  One  of  the  twin  brothers, 
who  in  our  friend  of  Bilbilis  (the  poet  Mar- 
tial) (III.,  88),  are  licking  different  groins, 
was  a cunnilingue.  The  neighbor  of  Priapus, 
“by  whose  fault  it  is  unhappy  Landace 
swears  she  can  hardly  walk,  she  is  so  en- 
larged,” is  covertly  designated  as  a cunni- 
lingue ( Priapeia  LXXVIII.)  ; yet  for  all 
that  Scioppius  maintains  he  was  only  a forni- 
cator; but  why  should  we  turn  away  from  the 
proper  sense  of  the  word  on  account  of  the 
enlarged  aperture?  As  if  the  vulva  could  not 
be  enlarged,  or  relaxed  by  the  tongue  of  the 
cunnilingue  equally  as  much  as  by  active  co- 
habitation! 

Tiberius  Caesar  in  his  retreat  at  Capri  does 
not  seem  to  have  disdained  the  voluptuousness 
of  the  cunnilingue.  Blasted  by  every  other 
kind  of  abomination,  of  what  else  is  the  Em- 
peror accused  in  the  Atellanian  song,  men- 
tioned by  Suetonius  ( Tiberius , ch.  45),  which 
was  so  much  applauded: 

“An  old  buck  licking  the  vulvas  of  goats.” 
but  this  of  being  a cunnilingue?  Do  you 
want  to  see  Tiberius  employed  at  his  licking? 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


167 


Plate  XXII.,  in  Monuments  de  la  privee  des 
douze  Cesars,  represents  it. 

So  also  Sextus  Clodius,  whom  Cicero  fre- 
quently reproaches  with  the  impurity  of  his 
mouth  and  the  obscenity  of  his  tongue  ( Pro 
Domo,  chs.  10  and  18;  Pro  Coelio,  ch.  32), 
appears  to  us  to  have  been  a cunnilingue. 
Hence,  that  hit  of  Cicero,  in  his  Pro  domo, 
ch.  18: 

“My  good  Sextus,  allow  me  to  tell  you,  as 
you  are  already  a good  dialectician,  you  are 
also  a good  licker.” 

Certainly  if  he  was  one,  he  was  bound  to 
lick  Clodia,  the  sister  of  Publius  Clodius 
(12),  the  wife  of  Metellus,  the  woman  that 
was  intimate  with  all  the  world.  Cicero, 
Pro  domo,  ch.  31  : 

“Ask  Sextus  Clodius  as  to  this,  cite  him  to 
appear;  he  is  keeping  quite  in  the  back- 
ground. But  if  you  will  have  him  looked 
for,  he  will  be  found  near  your  sister  (he  is 

(12)  But  Clodia  was  something  more  than  a sister  for 
Publius  Clodius;  this  would  appear  from  the  spirited 
pleasantry  of  Cicero,  Pro  Coelio,  ch.  13: 

“If  there  had  not  arisen  differences  between  me  and 
that  lady’s  husband,  . . . brother,  I would  say ; I always 
make  that  mistake.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


168 


THE  MANUAL 


addressing  Publius  Clodius),  lurking  some- 
where with  his  head  low.” 

Pay  attention,  pray,  to  this  expression : “the 
head  low,”  it  will  soon  re-appear,  when  we 
speak  of  the  Greeks. 

The  Greeks,  in  fact,  felt  no  repugnance  to 
the  pleasure  in  question.  Epigrams  LXXIV., 
LXXV.,  and  LXXVL,  in  the  Analecta  of 
Brunck,  vol.  III.,  p.  165,  allude  to  this: 

LXXIV. 

“Homer  taught  you  to  call  voice  ***♦;  but 
who  taught  you  to  have  the  tongue  ****  (in 
a slit)  ?” 

The  unknown  poet  plays  upon  the  ambig- 
uity of  the  word  ****,  which  is  used  with 
respect  to  the  tongue  in  an  honest  sense,  when 
derived  from  ****,  I speak,  but  as  a vile 
usage  when  derived  from  ***,  a slit. 

LXXV. 

“Avoid  Alpheus’  mouth,  he  loves  Are- 
thusa’s  bosom,  plunging  head-first  into  the 
salty  sea.” 

In  this  epigram  also  the  poet  draws  upon 
the  ambiguity  of  the  words  mouth,  bosom 
(bay),-  head-first,  salt  sea,  which  may  refer 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


169 


to  the  river  Alpheus  in  Arcadia  and  to  Are- 
thusa, a spring  near  Syracuse,  but  also  to  the 
mouth  of  a cunnilingue,  that  goes  and  plunges 
into  the  vulva  of  a woman;  not  to  mention 
yet  another  idea  connected  with  this,  to 
which  we  shall  return  presently. 

LXXVI. 

“Cheilon  and  ****  have  the  same  letters, 
and  why?  It  is  because  Cheilon  will  lick 
things  that  are  like  and  unlike.” 

This  mockery  is  addressed  to  the  cunni- 
lingue Cheilon.  The  epigram  tells  him  that 
he  has  somehow  a right  of  licking,  as  his 
name,  composed  of  the  same  letters  as  **♦*, 
announces  at  once  the  licker,  whether  he  may 
lick  the  lips  of  a mouth,  similar  to  his  own, 
or  those  of  a vulva,  which  are  very  dis- 
similar. 

The  distich  of  Meleager  upon  Phavorinus, 
published  by  Huschkius  in  his  Analecta  crit- 
ica (p.  245),  seems  to  bear  upon  the  same 
subject: 

“You  doubt  whether  Phavorinus  does  the 
thing.  Doubt  no  more;  he  told  me  himself 
he  did, — with  his  own  mouth.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


170 


THE  MANUAL 


As  Martial  uses  often  very  happily  the 
word  narrat  (III.,  84),  when  he  speaks  of 
the  abuse  of  the  tongue  for  fellation,  and 
Horace  the  same,  so  Meleager  says  ****  (he 
told)  of  the  man,  who  employs  his  for  lick- 
ing the  vulva. 

The  following  epigram  of  Ammanius  from 
the  Analecta  of  Brunck,  vol.  II.,  p.  386,  is 
somewhat  more  obscure: 

“It  is  not  because  you  suck  your  pen  that 
I dislike  you;  ’tis  because  you  do  so, — with- 
out a pen.” 

The  scholiast  imagined  by  author  wanted 
to  upbraid  a lazy  pupil  who  passed  his  time 
sucking  his  pen,  as  do  others  biting  their 
nails,  and  to  scold  him  at  the  same  time  for 
sucking  without  a pen,  meaning  for  being 
a cunnilingue.  But  it  may  be  taken  to  refer, 
and  I think  with  more  reason,  to  a man  who 
is  in  the  habit  of  putting  out  his  tongue  for 
the  obscene  act  of  the  cunnilingue,  and  who 
is  so  accustomed  to  it  that  he  puts  it  out  in 
the  ordinary  intercourse  of  life. 

This  monstrous  practice  was  pushed  to  such 
lengths  that,  it  is  almost  incredible,  there 
were  people  who,  not  content  to  lick  vulvas 


Digitized  by  Googl 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


171 


which  were  dry,  did  it  when  they  were  humid 
with  the  menses  or  any  other  secretion.  Aris- 
tophanes says  of  Ariphrades  in  the  Knights, 
v.  1280-83: 

“He  is  not  only  lewd;  his  fancy  goes 
astray;  he  pollutes  his  tongue  with  shameful 
pleasures,  licking  up  in  his  orgies  the  abom- 
inable dew,  fouling  his  beard  and  torment- 
ing women’s  privates.” 

Tormenting  women’s  privates,  licking  the 
dews,  staining  the  beard,  there  you  have  the 
man  whom  humid  vulvas  do  not  disgust! 
there  you  have  a beard  like  that  of  the  Ravola 
of  Juvenal  (IX.,  4),  “when  he  with  beard 
all  moist  was  rubbing  against  the  groin  of 
Rhodope.”  However,  not  to  be  dogmatic, 
it  may  be  admitted  that  Ravola’s  moist  beard 
may  have  been  intended  merely  the  wet  hair 
of  a fornicator’s  pubis.  From  the  above  pas- 
sage of  Aristophanes  we  may  deduce  surely 
enough  that  the  expression  “working  with 
the  tongue,”  which  he  also  uses,  rather  am- 
biguously, with  respect  to  the  same  Ari- 
phrades, applies  to  a cunnilingue  rather  than 
to  a fellator,  Wasps,  1847-77: 

“Then  Ariphrades,  the  best  endowed  of  all, 


Digitized  by  Google 


172 


THE  MANUAL 


of  whom  his  father  said  once,  he  never  had  a 
teacher,  but  prompted  by  nature,  of  his  own 
free  will,  learned  how  to  work  his  tongue, 
visiting  every  brothel  1” 

The  same  personage  re-appears  in  the 
Peace,  885,  where  he  is  described  without  any 
circumlocution  as  imbibing  the  feminine  se- 
cretion by  way  of  a sauce: 

“And  throwing  himself  on  her  he  will 
drink  up  all  her  juice.” 

The  Greeks,  however,  had  in  this  kind  of 
voluptuousness  a host  of  imitators  amongst 
the  Romans.  Mamercus  Scaurus  is  known 
to  us  through  Seneca  ( De  Beneficiis,  IV.,  ch. 
31 ),  in  this  light: 

“Did  you  not  know  when  you  appointed 
Mamercus  Scaurus  as  Consul,  that  he  swal- 
lowed the  menses  of  his  servant  girls  by  the 
mouthful?  Did  he  make  a secret  of  it?  Did 
he  pretend  to  be  a blameless  man?” 
Similarly  with  Natalis,  letter  LXXXVII.: 
“Lately  Natalis,  that  man  with  a tongue 
as  malicious  as  it  is  impure,  in  whose  mouth 
women  used  to  eject  their  monthly  purga- 
tion. . . .” 

Both  of  them  were  consequently  “imbibers 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


173 


of  menses,”  an  appellation  which,  as  we  have 
seen  in  chapter  III,  Galen  applies  to  cunni- 
lingues. 

Now  too  we  can  clearly  understand  the 
meaning  of  Nicharchus’  epigram  against 
Demonax,  vol.  III.,  p.  334  of  Brunck’s  Ana- 
lecta: 

“Do  not,  Demonax,  regard  all  things  with 
downcast  head,  and  do  not  spoil  your  tongue 
with  over-gratification;  the  sow  has  threat- 
ening bristles.  You  live  amongst  us,  but 
you  sleep  in  Phoenicia,  and  though  no  son  of 
Semele,  you  are  thigh-reared.” 

He  never  looks  up,  exactly  like  the  Cinede 
Maternus  of  Martial,  I.,  97;  he  gratifies  his 
tongue,  which  likes  erection;  whether  the 
vulva  be  covered  with  hair  or  depilated,  he 
does  not  mind;  during  the  day  he  lives  in 
Greece,  but  sleeps  in  Phoenicia,  because  he 
stains  his  mouth  with  the  monthly  flux,  which 
is,  as  every  one  knows,  of  the  Phoenician  dye, 
viz.,  purplish  red  (13) ; like  another  Bacchus, 

(13)  Gonzalvo  of  Cordova,  according  to  Aloysia 
Sigaea  (Dialogue  VIII.),  made  similar  jokes:  “He  also, 
I am  sure,  in  spite  of  his  age,  was  a great  tongue-player 
(linguist).  A pretty  girl  of  some  twenty  years  had  to 
amuse  him.  When  he  wanted  to  put  his  tongue  to  her 


Digitized  by  Google 


174 


THE  MANUAL 


he  draws  his  nourishment  from  a thigh  (14). 
This  scarcely  needs  an  explanation.  You 
can  picture  the  cunnilingue , with  his  mouth 
glued  between  the  thighs,  at  work. 

juste  milieu,  he  declared  he  wanted  to  go  to  Liguria.”  He 
could  play  with  words  upon  the  same  matter,  always  im- 
plying the  idea  of  a humid  vulva,  saying  that  he  was  going 
to  Phceenicia,  or  to  the  Red  Sea,  or  to  the  Salt  Lake; 
you  now  understand  what  is  meant  by  the  Salt  Lake  or 
Salt  Sea,  into  which  Alpheus  threw  himself  according  to 
the  epigram  in  the  Anthology.  Nearly  related  to  this 
are  the  salgamas  of  Ausonius,  of  which  we  shall  speak 
shortly,  and  the  “onions  swimming  in  putrid  brine,” 
which  the  Ba?ticus  of  Martial  (III.,  77)  devours.  As 
it  was  said  of  the  fellators  that  they  “Phoenicized”,  be- 
cause they  followed  the  example  set  by  the  Phoenicians,  so 
probably  the  same  word  was  applied  to  the  cunnilingues 
as  loving  to  swim  in  a certain  sea  of  Phoenician  red ; and, 
in  fact,  this  was  the  case.  Hesychius:  “Scylax,  an  Erotic 
posture,  like  that  assumed  by  Phocnicizers.”  The  Phoeni- 
cians assumed  a certain  posture,  called  Scylax,  or  the  dog. 
There  could  be  nothing  better  for  describing  the  depraved 
action  of  a cunnilingue  than  this  canine  epithet  with  re- 
gard to  the  posture  taken  for  irrumating  or  fellation ; dogs 
are  cunnilingues  as  anybody  knows,  and  have  been  so  ever 
since  their  abominable  adventure  which  their  ambassadors 
met  with  (allusion  to  Phaedrus’  fable). 

(14)  Ovid,  Metamorphoses,  III.,  308-12: 

"...  Mortal  woman  could  not  survive  the  celestial 
fire ; she  was  consumed  by  her  spouse’s  favours.  The  in- 
fant but  half  formed  is  torn  from  the  mother’s  womb,  and, 
if  we  may  believe  the  tale,  is  sown  still  immature  in  the 
father’s  thigh,  and  there  completes  the  period  of  ges- 
tation.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


175 


This  strange  depravity  was  still  in  favor  in 
succeeding  centuries.  Ausonius,  in  his  Epi- 
grams CXX,  CXXIII,  CXXV.,  CXXVL, 
CXXVII.,  and  CXXVIII,  has  bequeathed  a 
very  unenviable  notoriety  to  the  names  of 
Castor  and  of  Eunus: 

Epigram  CXX.: 

“Castor  (15)  wanted  to  lick  the  middle 
part  of  men,  but  he  could  not  persuade  any 
one  to  go  with  him;  however  the  fellator 
did  not  miss  his  treat;  he  went  and  licked 
his  own  wife’s  privates.” 

Epigram  CXXIII,  entitled  In  Eunum  lig- 
uritorem.— On  Eunus  the  Licker: 

“Eunus,  why  do  you  pay  court  to  Phyllis, 
the  perfume  seller?  Men  say  your  tongue 
knows  her  parts,  but  not  your  member! 
Mind  you  make  no  mistakes  in  the  names  of 
her  scents  and  perfumes,  and  that  Seplasia’s 
atmosphere  play  you  no  tricks;  think  not 
costus  and  cysthus  have  the  same  odor, — that 
sardines  and  nard  exhale  the  same  savor. 


(15)  This  Castor  is  perhaps  the  same  who,  according 
to  the  statement  of  Ausonius  (Epigram  in  Professoribus 
Burdegalensibus,  XXII.,  7)  had  published  a book  with 
the  title  Cunctis  de  Regibus  ambiguis. 


Digitized  by  Google 


176 


THE  MANUAL 


Poor  Eunus!  the  things  that  he  tastes  and 
smells  are  very  different;  his  mouth  and  his 
nose  have  tastes  widely  dissimilar!” 

He  says  mockingly:  think  not  the  sundry 
wares  in  the  shop  of  Phyllis  your  little  per- 
fume seller  of  Capua  (Seplasia  is  in  fact  a 
street  of  the  town  of  Capua,  where  perfumes 
were  sold),  are  all  of  the  same  odor  and 
savor.  The  costus  (16)  does  not  smell  like 
the  cysthus  (17),  the  nard  (18)  has  a differ- 
ent flavor  from  the  sardines, — a sort  of  little 
fish  preserved  in  salt.  By  this  salty  condi- 
ment Ausonius  means  to  imply  precisely  the 
same  as  the  author  of  the  Greek  epigram 
signifies,  when  he  speaks  of  the  Salt  Sea,  and 
which  he  himself  has  called  salgama,  mean- 
ing the  secretion  of  the  humid  vulva.  But 
Eunus  shows  no  discrimination  between  what 
he  licks  and  what  he  smells;  the  two  have 

(16)  Pliny,  Nat.  Hist.,  XII,  ch.  12:  “The  Costus- 
root  has  a burning  taste  and  an  exquisite  smell;  its  ber- 
ries are  otherwise  useless.” 

(17)  The  Cysthus,  Greek  ****  is  the  private  parts 
of  a woman.  Aristophanes,  Lysistrata,  v.  1160:  “And 
a more  beautiful  cysthus  I never  saw.” 

(18)  Pliny  Nat.  Hist.,  XII.,  ch.  12:  “The  leaves  of 
the  nard  must  be  considered  more  minutely,  for  they  are 
a principal  ingredient  in  perfumery.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


177 


nothing  in  common.  He  inhales  perfumes 
which  smell  beautifully,  and  licks  the  vulva, 
which  smells  abominably.  His  nose  obeys 
one  law,  his  tongue  another. 

Epigram  CXXV,  directed  against  the  same 
Eunus : 

“The  salgamas  are  no  balmy  odors;  give 
place,  all  other  perfumes.  I would  rather 
not  smell  at  all,  either  good  or  bad.” 

Here  again  the  poet  plays  with  the  words. 
The  perfumes  which  Phyllis  sells  he  calls 
balms,  and  salgamas  those  which  her  vulva 
exhales.  Properly  speaking,  salgamas  are 
roots  and  greens,  which  are  preserved  in  salt 
for  winter  use,  and  the  odor  of  which  is  not 
pleasant  to  every  one’s  nose.  His  saying  that 
he  would  rather  smell  nothing  at  all  than 
smell  something  bad  is  borrowed  from  Mar- 
tial VI.,  epigr.  55,  against  Coracinus,  who 
was  a cunnilingue : 

“Rather  than  smell  bad  scents  I would  not 
smell  at  all.” 

Epigram  CXXVI: 

“Lais,  Eros  and  Itys,  Chiron  and  Eros, 
Itys  once  again, — if  you  write  the  names,  and 
take  the  initial  letters,  they  make  a word, 


Digitized  by  Google 


178 


THE  MANUAL 


and  that  word  is  what  you  do,  Eunus.  What 
that  word  is  and  means,  decency  lets  me  not 
say  in  plain  Latin.” 

The  initial  letters  of  the  six  Greek  names 
form  the  word  ****,  he  licks.  The  phallic 
poet  ( Priapeia  LXVII)  plays  in  the  same 
way  upon  the  word  paedicare  (to  pedicate)  : 

“Take  the  first  syllable  of  Penelope;  add 
to  it  the  first  of  Dtdo;  then  to  the  first  of 
Canis  append  the  first  of  Pemus:  what  they 
make,  I will  do  to  you,  thief,  if  I catch  you 
in  my  garden.  This  is  the  penalty  your  crime 
will  meet.” 

Ausonius  plays  on  the  words  doing  and 
making.  The  initials  of  the  Greek  words 
make  a word  he  cannot  say  in  Latin, — it  is 
too  indecent.  Yet  Eunus  has  no  hesitation 
in  doing  it, — putting  it  in  action. 

Epigram  CXXVII: 

“Eunus,  when  you  lick  the  groins  of  your 
wife,  she  being  with  child;  ’tis  because  you 
would  be  betimes  in  teaching  the  tongues 
to  your  babes  yet  unborn.” 

You  seem,  he  says,  to  send  out  your  tongue 
to  meet  your  unborn  children,  and  fulfilling 
your  duty  as  a Grammarian,  to  teach  them 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


179 


lessons  of  tongue,  and  the  interpretation  of 
obscure  terms  (19).  The  Manneius  of  Mar- 
tial, whom  we  have  spoken  of  above,  was 
also  in  the  habit  of  licking  pregnant  wo- 
men’s privates. 

Epigram  CXXVIII.,  entitled  On  the  same 
Eunus,  the  Learned  Licker : 

“Eunus,  the  little  Syrian  pedagogue,  licker 
of  privates,  Opican  doctor  (’tis  Phyllis  he 
owes  his  knowledge  to),  beholds  the  feminine 
engine  in  fourfold  different  fashions:  Open- 
ing it  triangularly,  he  makes  it  the  letter 
Delta  ( A) ; seeing  the  pair  of  folds  side  by 
side  along  the  valley  of  the  thighs  with  the 

(19)  "Quintilian,  Instit.  orat.,  I,  ch.  1:  “He  can 
learn  the  interpretation  of  the  occult  languages,  what  the 
Greeks  call  ******  Alcuin,  Grammatica,  p.  2086,  in 
Putschius’  Collection : Glossa  is  the  interpretation  of 

a verb  or  a noun ; e.g.  catus  is  the  same  thing  as  doctus 
On  this  occasion  it  may  be  permitted  to  the  Director  of 
the  Court-Library  at  Coburg  to  state,  that  this  library 
contains  a remarkable  copy  of  the  collection  of  Putschius, 
by  the  hand  of  John  Scheffer,  who  died  at  Upsala  in 
1679,  beginning  thus:  “The  notes  to  be  found  in  this  vol- 
ume, on  the  margin  of  books  IV  and  V,  of  Priscian,  have 
been  made  after  a very  ancient  and  most  beautifully 
written  manuscript,  in  which  a number  of  traces  of  primi- 
tive Latin  orthography  are  found,  as  for  instance:  dirivare 
for  derivare,  peneultimus  and  antepeneultimus  for  penul- 
timus  and  antepenultimus,  Oratius  for  Horatius,  etc.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


180 


THE  MANUAL 


line  in  the  middle  where  the  slit  of  the  vagina 
opens,  he  says  it  is  a Psi  (*) ; in  fact  its  shape 
is  triple-cloven  then.  Then  when  he  has  put 
his  tongue  in,  it  is  a Lambda  (*),  and  he 
makes  out  therein  the  true  design  of  a Phi 
(*).  Why!  ignoramus,  do  you  think  you 
see  a Rho  (P.)  written,  where  merely  a long 
Iota  (I.)  should  be  put?  Contemptible 
doctor,  foul  pedant,  you  deserve  the  Tau  (T.) 
yourself;  the  crossed  Theta  (O.)  should  by 
rights  be  put  against  your  name.” 

Ausonius  calls  Eunus  an  Opican,  because 
these  filthy  practices  were,  according  to  Fes- 
tus, most  common  among  the  Osci  or  Opici. 
He  then  indulges  in  a series  of  jests,  or  rather 
represents  Eunus  as  doing  so,  on  the  shape  of 
the  female  organ  (20).  He  says  it  seems 

(20)  As  we  are  on  the  subject  of  the  shape  of  the  fe- 
male organ,  it  will  not  be  amiss  to  enumerate  in  this  place 
all  the  various  names  by  which  it  was  known  in  Latin; 
the  greater  part  of  them  we  have  gathered  from  the 
treasure-house  of  Aloysia  Sigaea:  “The  field,  the  ring, 
the  furrow,  the  cavern,  the  clitoris,  the  conch-shell,  the 
cunnus,  the  little  boat,  the  cysthus,  the  pit,  the  garden, 
the  between-thighs,  the  barque,  the  swine,  the  wicket, 
the  slit,  the  precipice,  the  hole,  the  trench,  the  sheath, 
the  virginal,  the  vulva.  And  what  should  hinder  us  from 
giving  at  the  time  time  the  names  of  the  virile  member: 
The  armature  of  the  belly,  the  catapult,  the  tail,  the  stem, 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


181 


to  him  either  quadrangular,  or  triangular, 
in  the  latter  case  corresponding  to  the  Greek 
A (similarly  Aristophanes  called  it  a Delta, 
— “their  delta  plucked  clean  of  hair,”  Lysis- 
trata,  1 5 1 ) , and  also  likens  it  to  the  letter  **, 
owing  to  the  folds  which  surround  the  vulva 
on  either  side  (21),  and  form  the  outer  lips, 
the  lane  in  the  middle  being  the  opening  of 
the  vulva,  and  so  together  form  the  trifid 
letter  **;  in  the  T echnopaegnium,  140,  he 
calls  it  a three-pronged  fork,  the  slit  being 
the  middle  and  the  lips  the  outer  prongs. 
Then  he  says  that  Eunus  is  a Lambda  when 
he  is  licking,  on  account  of  the  first  letter  of 


the  parcel,  the  column,  the  pole,  the  lance  with  balls, 
the  amulet,  the  pike,  the  groin,  the  hanger,  the  mentula, 
the  mutinus,  the  muto,  the  nerve,  the  virile  sign,  the 
stake,  the  peculia,  the  penis,  the  stopper,  the  phallus,  the 
javelin,  the  tree,  the  obelisk,  the  shaft,  the  spectre,  the 
seminal  member,  the  awl,  the  bull,  the  dart,  the  balista, 
the  beam,  the  thyrsus,  the  vessel,  the  little  vessel,  the 
vein,  the  private,  the  verpa  and  verpus,  the  verge,  the 
ploughshare.  Here  you  have  more  than  enough. 

(21)  Altrinsecus,  in  Ausonius,  is  equivalent  to  utrin- 
secus,  meaning,  from  either  side.  Lactantius  employs 
that  word  in  De  Opificio  Dei,  ch.  8:  “It  is  incredible 

how  the  fact  of  their  being  double  (the  ears)  adds  to  their 
beauty,  as  much  on  account  of  the  symmetry  thus  pro- 
duced, as  because  the  sounds  which  arise  on  all  sides,  can 
more  easily  be  received  on  both  sides  (altrinsecus).’’ 


Digitized  by  Google 


182 


THE  MANUAL 


the  word  ****.  All  this  is  clear  enough, 
and  I do  not  understand  how  the  very  learned 
Vinet  can  complain  of  its  obscurity.  Neither 
has  it  given  me  much  trouble  to  make  out 
what  Ausonius  means  by  the  letters  Rho  and 
Iota.  The  solution  seems  to  me  to  be  as 
follows:  “Do  not  tell  us,  Eunus,  that  your 
pike  in  action  resembles  the  letter  P of  the 
Greeks,  a letter  which  evidently  looks  like 
a lance  with  balls;  in  your  amorous  diver- 
sions you  use  no  other  lance  than  your  tongue, 
which,  as  you  will  not  deny,  looks  more  like 
a javelin  without  balls,  something  like  the 
letter  Iota;  you  cannot  deceive  me,  who  well 
know  that  you  would  rather  be  taken  for  a 
fornicator  than  for  a cunnilingue,  like  that 
Gargilius,  of  whom  Martial,  III,  96,  says: 

“You  do  not  enter,  only  lick  my  mistress; 
yet  you  boast  yourself  adulterer  and  copu- 
latori” 

Lastly  and  finally  by  the  Tau  he  threat- 
ens his  man  with  the  gallows,  and  by  the 
Theta  with  death.  Of  this  there  can  be 
little  doubt;  it  is  a proved  fact  that  the  letter 
Theta,  the  initial  of  the  word  ****,  signified 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


183 


with  the  Greeks  condemnation  to  death  (22). 
With  regard  to  Tau,  there  is  room  for  doubt; 
instead  of  Tau  some  of  the  copies  of  Auso- 
nius give  8,  and  although  this  sign  may,  ac- 
cording to  Scaliger,  very  well  signify  the 
rope  for  hanging,  the  difficulty  I feel  is  this, 
that  a composite  letter,  a small  letter,  an  ab- 
breviation of  doubtful  antiquity,  thus  placed 
amongst  simple,  capital,  unabbreviated  let- 
ters seems  to  come  in  very  inappropriately. 
It  may  be  that  Ausonius  originally  wrote 
****;  then  * having  been  left  out  by  an  in- 
advertence of  the  copyist,  the  **  might  easily 
have  been  turned  into  **.  The  Tau,  as  the 
reader  will  see  at  once,  represents  a gallows. 
Tertullian,  Adversus  Maricionem : “This  let- 
ter Tau  of  the  Greeks  is  with  us  the  T,  a sort 
of  cross.” 

As  was  the  case  with  irrumation,  so  with 
even  more  reason  the  licking  of  women’s 
privates  was  particularly  adopted  by  old  men, 
whose  tool  will  not  raise  its  head  (23). 


(22)  Persius,  VI,  13:  “And  you  may  mark  the  crime 
with  a black  Theta.”  See  also  Martial,  VII,  36. 

(23)  I say  it  was  adopted  by  them  particularly;  that 
there  were  also  young  men,  who  by  a singular  depravity 


Digitized  by  Google 


184 


THE  MANUAL 


Aloysia  Sigaea,  Dialogue  VII,  says:  “He 
(Gonzalvo  of  Cordova),  was  likewise  a 
mighty  cunnilingue  by  reason  of  his  great 
age.” 

“Why  does  Blatara  lick?  because  he  cannot 
manage  otherwise.” 

The  same  author,  VI,  26: 

“Lotades  has  lost  the  power  of  stiffening; 
so  licks.” 

And  again,  XII,  88: 

“Thirty  young  boys  you  have  at  command, 
and  as  many  girls;  yet  you  have  only  one 
member,  and  that  will  not  rise.  What  then 
will  you  do?” 

Lick,  no  doubt,  as  we  are  told  Linus  did, 
in  Epig.  XI,  25 : 

“This  too  frisky  mentula,  Linus,  so  well 
known  to  girls  in  plenty,  will  longer  stand; 
so  mind  your  tongue.” 

Sextilius  (Martial  II,  28),  was  in  all  prob- 
ability also  a cunnilingue : 

“Have  your  laugh  at  those,  Sextilius,  that 

licked  the  vulvas  they  might  have  entered  legitimately, 
Martial  tells  us,  XI,  86: 

“An  evil  star,  Zoilus,  has  struck  your  tongue  of  a 
sudden,  even  while  licking  a vulva.  Of  a surety,  Zoilus, 
you  must  now  use  your  member.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


185 


call  you  cinede,  and  show  them  your  middle 
finger  (24).  You  are  not,  Sextilius,  a pedi- 
con  nor  yet  a fornicator,  nor  does  Vetustilla’s 
burning  mouth  tempt  you. — You  are  none  of 
these,  I allow,  Sextilius;  then  what  are  you? 
I know  not,  but  remember  1 there  are  two 
sorts  yet.” 

Two  sorts  are  still  left  for  Sextilius,  to 
suck  the  virile  member  and  to  lick  the  vulva, 
while  he  is  neither  a fornicator,  nor  a cinede, 
nor  a pedicon,  nor  an  irrumator.  Which 
did  he  choose  to  be?  This  we  are  not  told. 
Eunuchs,  just  as  impotent  as  aged  men,  adopt 


(24)  When  the  middle-finger  is  pointing,  the  other 
fingers  are  turned  inside,  representing  thus  a mentula 
with  its  accessories ; for  which  reason  it  was  thus  pointedly 
shown  to  Cinedes  (the  Greeks  expressed  this  in  a single 
word:  ****»*)!  either  by  way  of  invitation  or  to  tease 
them.  Martial,  I,  93:  “Cestus  has  often  complained 

to  me,  Mamurianus,  that  you  tease  him  with  your  finger.” 
It  was  also  pointed  at  people  held  in  contempt.  The  same 
author,  VI,  70: 

“He  points  with  the  finger  and  that  the  impudent 
finger”  (that  is  Martianus,  who  is  never  ill,  does  to  the 
doctors).  Thence  this  unlucky  finger  had  the  epithet  “in- 
famous.” Persius  says  without  any  obscene  afterthought, 
II,  33:  “The  grandmother  cleanses  the  babe  with  the 
infamous  (middle)  finger.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


186 


THE  MANUAL 


the  practice  for  the  same  reason  (25).  Greg- 
ory Nazianzen  says  in  his  funeral  sermon  on 
Basil  the  Great: 

(25)  Nevertheless,  Eunuchs  who  have  been  deprived 
of  their  testicles,  but  not  of  their  mentula,  are  by  no 
means  wanting  in  lubricity:  they  can  do  the  business 
without  any  danger  for  a woman,  inasmuch  as  they  can- 
not generate  children.  The  Roman  matrons  were  well 
aware  of  the  fact:  Martial,  VI.,  67: 

“You"  ask  me,  Pannicus,  why  Gallia  keeps  so  many 
Eunuchs ; she  loves  to  be  enjoyed,  but  wants  no  children.” 
Juvenal,  VI,  365-67: 

“There  are  women  who  like  feeble  eunuchs,  and  kisses 
that  are  ever  harmless,  and  the  absence,  nay!  the  im- 
possibility, of  a beard,  for  they  need  use  no  abortive.” 

St.  Jerome,  in  the  Life  of  Hilarion : “A  steward  with 
curled  locks,  castrated  for  the  sake  of  longer  pleasure 
and  perfect  safety.  ...”  To  make  more  sure  of  their 
enjoyment,  experienced  dames  did  not  allow  the  testicles 
of  the  Eunuchs  to  be  cut  off  until  the  member  had  at- 
tained full  proportions,  apprehensive  that  it  might  remain 
puny  and  inactive  if  the  operation  were  made  earlier. 
They  wanted  their  Eunuchs  well  furnished,  capable  of 
challenging  Priapus  himself.  By  such  they  liked  to  be 
worked,  being  sure  of  not  becoming  enceinte.  Juvenal, 

VI..  367-77: 

“With  those  however  is  love’s  pleasure  most  exquisite, 
whose  testicles,  when  they  are  lusty  and  fully  matured, 
are  delivered  to  the  surgeons,  the  pubis  being  already 
black  with  hair.  The  organs  are  spared  till  they  are  full 
and  ready;  then  at  last,  when  they  have  reached  two 
pounds  in  weight,  Heliodorus  cuts  them,  to  the  preju- 
dice of  the  barber.  The  observed  of  all  observers,  stared 
at  by  all,  see  him  enter  the  baths  and  challenge  the  god 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  E.'tClUl.OOY 


187 


“They  of  the  gynaeceum,  those  men,  who 
amongst  women  are  men,  and  amongst  men 
women;  who  have  nothing  virile  about  them 
but  their  impiety;  those  that  cannot  give 
themselves  up  to  voluptuousness  in  the  nat- 
ural way,  have  recourse  to  their  tongue  as 
their  only  alternative.” 

The  cunnilingues  exhaled  an  evil  smell 
from  the  mouth,  and  their  kisses  were  as 
much  shunned  as  those  of  fellators.  Martial, 
XII.,  87: 

“You  say  the  mouths  of  pedicons  smell 
badly;  if  this  is  true,  Fabullus,  as  you  say, 
tell  me!  what  think  you  of  the  breath  of 
cunnilingues ?” 

And  the  same,  XIL,  59: 

“The  neighbors  kiss  you  every  one,  from 
the  bearded  cowherd,  whose  kisses  have  flavor 
of  the  he-goat,  down  to  the  fellator  and  the 
cunnilingue  fresh  from  his  business.” 

Cunnilingues  and  fellators  are  compared  to 


of  vineyard  and  garden,  castrated  thus  by  his  lady’s  or- 
der. He  may  sleep  now  with  his  mistress ; still  beware, 
Josthumus,  how  you  trust  him  with  your  Bromius,  now 
fully  developed  and  ready  for  the  razor.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


188 


THE  MANUAL 


he-goats  by  Catullus  (XXXVII.),  on  ac- 
count of  their  fetid  breath: 

“Think  you  you  alone  have  members,  that 
you  alone  are  entitled  to  satisfy  women,  and 
may  consider  all  other  men  he-goats?” 

Do  not  suppose  for  a moment  that  Catullus 
is  speaking  here  of  castrated  he-goats,  which 
would  be  against  the  sense  of  the  word,  one 
invariably  used  to  designate  entire  he-goats. 
The  sense  is  the  same,  but  got  at  in  another 
way.  He  says:  “Do  you  believe  that  you 
alone  have  members  fit  to  do  the  girls’  busi- 
ness? that  all  the  others  betray  by  their  goat- 
ish breath  their  vile  trade  as  cunnilingues  or 
fellators,  and  consequently  the  inertness  of 
their  mentulas,  their  feebleness,  their  inabil- 
ity for  erection?  You  will  better  appreciate 
the  sting  of  Atellane  verse  respecting  Tiberius 
Caesar:  “An  old  buck  licking  the  she-goats’ 
parts.” 

It  was  thought  better  to  be  taken  for  a 
fornicator  than  for  a cunnilingue;  in  the  first 
place,  because  your  friends  would  not  kiss 
you;  Martial,  VII.,  94: 

“I  had  rather  confront  a hundred  cunnilin- 
gues” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


189 


Suetonius,  De  Illustribus  Grammaticis,  ch. 
23: 

“He  (Remmius  Palaemon)  was  passion- 
ately fond  of  women,  so  much  so  as  to  pros- 
titute his  mouth  to  please  them,  and  it  is 
said  that  he  was  one  day  rebuked  in  the 
following  way  by  a man  who  in  the  throng 
could  not  contrive  to  avoid  one  of  his  kisses: 
“Master,”  he  said,  “if  you  see  a man  in  a 
hurry  to  get  away,  will  you  lick  him  off?” 

In  the  second  place  for  fear  of  scaring 
away  your  guests.  Aristophanes  says  of  Ari- 
phrades,  in  the  Knights,  1285,  86: 

“Whoever  does  not  execrate  that  man,  may 
he  never  drink  from  the  same  cup  with  us” — 
lastly,  for  fear  of  letting  it  be  plainly  known 
how  shrunken  one  was,  and  how  miserable 
one’s  member.  Martial,  III,  96: 

“You  lick  my  mistress,  but  you  do  not 
enter  her;  yet  you  boast  yourself  adulterer 
and  copulator!” 

Hence  the  cunnilingues  took  no  less  care 
than  the  fellators  to  hide  the  fetidness  of  their 
breath  by  means  of  essences  and  perfumes, 
Martial  VI,  55: 

Always  scented  with  cassia  and  cinnamon, 


Digitized  by  Google 


190 


THE  MANUAL 


and  your  skin  darkened  with  perfumes  from 
the  Phoenix’  nest,  you  reek  of  the  leaden  jars 
of  Nicerotus’  shop.  You  mock  at  us,  Cora- 
cinus, because  we  are  unscented.  Rather  than 
smell  sweet  like  you,  I’d  not  smell  at  all.” 

To  remove  every  doubt  as  to  Coracinus 
being  a fellator  or  a cunnilingue , we  will 
quote  Epigr.  IV,  43,  where  he  is  expressly 
called  a cunnilingue : 

“I  did  not  say  you  were  a cinede,  Cora- 
cinus; I am  not  so  rash  and  reckless.  What 
I did  say  in  a light,  insignificant  matter,  one 
perfectly  well  known,  that  you  will  not  deny 
yourself, — I said,  Coracinus,  you  were  a cun- 
nilingue.’’ 

It  was  believed  that  Venus  revenged  in- 
juries done  to  herself  or  to  hers,  not  only 
by  condemning  the  guilty  to  submit  to  be  the 
passive  party,  but  by  turning  them  into  cunni- 
lingues.  Hence  the  pathic  tastes  of  Philoc- 
tetes : 

“With  which  the  destitution  of  Lemnos 
inspired  the  heir  of  Heracles.” 

To  use  the  very  words  of  Ausonius,  Epigr. 
LXXI;  and  by  inflicting  these  tastes  Venus 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


191 


is  said  to  have  avenged  the  wounds  of  Paris, 
Martial,  II,  84: 

“The  sons  of  Poeas  was  effeminate  and 
prone  to  man-love;  thus  they  say  did  Venus 
avenge  Paris’  wounds.” 

In  the  same  epigram  Martial  rallies  Ser- 
torius on  being  cunnilingue,  giving  as  a pos- 
sible reason  his  having  killed  Eryx,  the  son 
of  Venus: 

“Why  does  Sicilian  Sertorius  lick  women’s 
privates;  because,  Rufus,  it  would  seem  it 
was  he  killed  Eryx.” 

Cunnilingues  appear  to  have  been  general- 
ly pale-faced;  it  is  for  medical  men  to  say 
why.  This  may  help  you  to  discern  the 
salt  in  Martial’s  epigram  on  Charinus,  I,  78: 

“Charinus  is  well  and  strong,  and  still  he 
is  pale; 

Charinus  drinks  with  moderation,  and  still 
he  is  pale; 

Charinus  digests  well,  and  still  he  is  pale; 

Charinus  loves  the  open  air  and  sun,  and 
still  he  is  pale; 

Charinus  dyes  his  skin,  and  still  he  is  pale; 

Charinus  licks  a woman’s  privates,  and 
still  pale  is  he.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


192 


THE  MANUAL 


That  is  to  say,  amongst  the  causes  that 
should  prevent  paleness  the  one  last  enu- 
merated is  the  veritable  cause  of  his  paleness. 
Fellators  would  also  seem  to  have  had  pale 
faces,  Catullus,  LXXX: 

“How  is  it,  Gellius,  that  those  rosy  lips  of 
yours  grow  whiter  than  the  winter’s  snow, 
when  at  morn  you  leave  your  house,  and  the 
eighth  hour  calls  you  from  your  long-pro- 
tracted soft  repose?  I know  not  what  to 
think.  Can  it  be  true  what  rumor  whispers, 
that  you  devour  the  middle  parts  of  men? 
This  at  any  rate  is  evidenced  by  wretched 
Virro’s  sunken  flanks  and  your  own  lips 
masked  with  the  milky  juice  sucked  from 
him.” 

The  withered  flanks  are  those  of  Virro,  the 
irrumator,  the  lips  those  of  Gellius;  the  pas- 
sage is  somewhat  ambiguous,  and  only  thus 
to  be  explained.  One  Virro,  accustomed  to 
take  the  passive  part,  has  been  already  men- 
tioned by  us,  in  quoting  Juvenal,  IX,  35.  I 
do  not  know  whether  it  is  the  same : 

“Though  Virro  has  caught  sight  of  you  all 
naked,  and  the  foam  has  come  to  his  lips.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


193 


Pathics , too,  no  less  than  fellators,  appear 
to  have  pallid  faces.  Juvenal,  II,  SO: 
“Hispo  submits  to  young  men;  he  is  pale 
with  either  kind  of  infamy.” 

He  served  as  patient  to  young  men,  and 
was  moreover  a fellator,  as  is  shown  by  the 
difference  which  the  poet  institutes  between 
him  and  women,  who  do  not  lick  each  other’s 
secret  parts: 

“Taedia  does  not  lick  Cluvia,  nor  Flora 
Catulla.” 

Women,  in  fact,  are  rarely  cunnilingues, 
although  there  are  examples.  Martial  only 
mentions  one  woman  as  belonging  to  that 
category;  we  shall  come  across  her  again  in 
the  next  chapter. 


Digitized  by  Google 


CHAPTER  VI 

OF  TRIBADS 

HE  tribads,  also  called  frictionists 
(26)  from  the  Greek  ****,  I rub, 
are  women,  with  whom  that  part 
of  the  genital  apparatus  which  is 
called  the  clitoris,  attains  such  proportions, 
that  they  can  use  it  as  a mentula,  either  for 
fornication  or  pedication.  The  clitoris  (27), 
which  is  a very  sensitive  caruncle  (a  small 

(26)  They  were  also  called  hetairistriae : — Hesychiu*: 
"Hetairistriae  tribads” — and  likewise  dietairistriae,  ac- 
cording to  the  same  author:  “Dietairistriae,  women  who 
go  after  prostitutes  (hetairae)  for  carnal  intercourse,  just 
as  men  do;  same  as  tribads.” 

(27)  Aloysia  Sigaea,  Dialogue  III.:  “But  I forgot 
(Tullia  speaking)  to  tell  you  of  the  clitoris.  This  is  a 
membranous  body,  situated  at  the  bottom  of  the  pubis, 
and  representing  in  a reduced  form  the  virile  verge.  As  is 
the  case  with  the  verge,  the  amorous  desire  excites  it  to 
erection,  and  in  certain  women  of  an  ardent  temperament 
it  inflames  them  with  pruriency  to  such  a degree  that  by 
the  mere  caressing  of  it  with  the  hand  they  very  often 
discharge  their  fluid  without  the  help  of  a rider  at  all.” 

195 


Digitized  by  Google 


196 


THE  MANUAL 


fleshy  cone),  capable  of  movement  and  re- 
sembling the  verge,  gets  into  erection  with 
all  women,  not  only  during  the  coitus,  the 
delights  of  which  it  is  said  to  enhance  im- 
mensely by  increased  titillation,  but  also  in 
consequence  of  mere  amorous  longing;  with 
tribads,  either  by  a freak  of  nature  or  in  con- 
sequence of  frequent  use,  it  attains  immod- 
erate dimensions  (28).  The  tribad  can  get 

(28)  If  that  woman  whom  Plater  saw,  according  to 
Venette  in  his  Tableau  de  I'amour  conjugal,  vol.  I.,  ch.  1, 
3,  was  not  a tribad,  she  might  well  have  been  one;  her 
clitoris,  which  with  other  women  attains  in  its  utmost 
erection  the  length  of  the  half  of  the  little  finger  or  there- 
abouts, was  as  long  as  the  neck  of  a goose.  Is  it  sur- 
prising that  women  furnished  with  such  an  implement 
should  wish  to  get  rid  of  it?  Amputation  is  however 
dangerous.  Plater  did  not  venture  to  finish  an  amputa- 
tion which  he  had  commenced,  and  Rodohamides,  an 
Egyptian  physician  of  the  Xlth  century,  had  not  courage 
to  even  undertake  one,  although  commanded  by  a queen 
to  perform  the  operation  (Venette,  IV.,  2).  Those  whom 
Adramytes,  the  king  of  the  Lydians,  order  to  castrate 
women,  were  they  more  courageous?  Athensus,  XII., 
2 : “Xanthus  states  in  the  second  book  of  his  Lydiacs,  that 
Adramytes,  king  of  the  Lydians,  was  the  first  to  have 
women  castrated  and  employ  them  as  eunuchs.”  How- 
ever that  may  be,  these  female  eunuchs  have  very  much 
exercised  the  commentators.  Some  suppose  that  straps 
and  buckles  did  in  their  case  the  same  service  as  the  chas- 
tity-belts, which,  it  is  said,  Spaniards  and  Italians  to  this 
day  compel  their  wives  to  wear  if  they  think  they  have 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


197 


it  in  erection,  enter  a vulva  or  anus,  enjoy  a 
delicious  voluptuousness,  and  procure  if  not 

reason  to  be  jealous : others  believe  that  it  was  a question 
of  suture,  as  is  the  case  with  the  natives  of  Angola  and 
the  Congo,  who  stitch  the  vulvas  of  young  girls  for  the 
protection  of  their  maidenheads;  but  I believe  that  nobody 
knows  anything  certain  in  this  respect.  Nor  does  it  ap- 
pear that  these  women  had  to  submit  to  an  operation, 
which  is  certainly  practised  upon  the  young  girls  by  the 
Arabs,  Copts,  Ethiopians,  in  some  parts  of  Persia  and 
Nigritia,  and  which  consists  in  cutting  off  the  prepuce  of 
the  clitoris;  this  is  proved  by  abundant  evidence,  and  re- 
ported in  the  Encyclopedia  of  Ersch  and  Gruber  under 
the  word:  “Beschneidung”  (Circumcision);  how  indeed 
could  Athenaeus  describe  as  Eunuchize  that  which  is  cal- 
culated to  increase  the  fecundity  of  women.  I thought 
first  that  these  women  were  tribads  changed  into  eunuchs 
by  the  removal  of  their  immoderately  large  clitoris;  I am 
now  inclined  to  believe  that  the  king  caused  that  to  be 
done  to  these  women,  which  according  to  Aristotle,  Nat. 
Hist.  IX.,  50,  was  done  to  sows:  “Sows  are  castrated,' 
so  that  they  shall  no  longer  desire  the  coitus  and  get 
quickly  fattened.  They  are  castrated,  suspended  by  their 
hind  legs,  after  fasting  two  days,  by  an  incision  in  that 
place  where  with  a man  the  testicles  are  situated,  in  fact  in 
the  female  matrix.”  Pliny,  Nat.  Hist.,  VIII.,  51 : “Sows 
are  castrated  in  the  same  way  as  female  camels,  after  a 
fast  of  two  days,  suspended  by  their  hind  legs,  by  an  in- 
cision in  the  vulva;  they  thus  fatten  much  quicker." 
Columella,  VII.,  IX.  5:  “Sows  are  also  castrated  by  in- 
cision in  the  vulva ; the  wounds  cicatrics,  and  they  cannot 
conceive  any  more.”  This  practice  has  by  no  means  dis- 
appeared ; Schneider  notes  it  in  the  passage  of  Columella ; 
sows,  cows,  mares,  sheep,  are  still  castrated  by  excising 
their  ovarium.  Why  should  we  not  believe  that  Adramy- 


Digitized  by  Google 


198 


THE  MANUAL 


a complete  realization  of  cohabitation,  at 
least  something  very  near  to  it,  to  the  woman 
who  plays  the  passive  part.  What  more  is 
there  to  say?  She  plays  the  man’s  part  with 
the  omission  of  the  ejaculation  of  the  se- 
men, not  that  this  sort  of  coitus  is  an  alto- 
gether dry  affair,  as  women  are  in  the  habit 
of  emitting  their  liquid  during  the  joys  of 
love  (29). 

tes  wanted  the  same  process  to  be  applied  to  the  fair  sex, 
in  order  to  make  women  sterile?  However  the  ancient 
Egyptians,  who  (see  Strabo,  book  XVII.,  p.  824)  un- 
doubtedly circumcized  themselves,  and  also  their  women, 
appear  to  me  to  have  had  in  view  not  so  much  ovariotomy 
as  the  circumcision  of  the  prepuce  of  the  clitoris,  a prac- 
tice still  in  use  with  them,  as  stated  above ; cutting  the 
female  parts  being  thus  something  like  circumcision,  it  is 
to  be  assumed  that  a similar  operation  was  intended  rather 
than  any  other  one. 

(29)  Let  us  consult  again  Aloysia  Sigsea,  Dialogue 
III.:  “It  has  happened  sometimes  to  myself  (Tullia), 
when  Callias  tries  on  me  his  lubricities,  when  he  tickles 
me  and  excites  me.  Then  I sometimes  water  his  too 
libertine  hands  with  an  abundant  dew  from  my  pleasure 
grounds.  And  that  gives  him  an  opportunity  for  letting 
off  a whole  sheaf  of  sarcasms  and  jokes.  But  what  can  I 
do?  I begin  to  laugh,  and  so  does  he;  I tell  him  he  is 
too  impudent,  he  tells  me  I am  too  lewd;  we  call  each 
other  names  right  and  left,  and  in  the  midst  of  our  mu- 
tual recrimination  he  will  throw  himse.f  upon  me,  turn 
me  on  my  back,  and  force  me  to  subm  t to  his  assault, 
saying  he  will  give  me  his  dewdrops  fc'r  those  he  has 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


199 


This  depravity  of  voluptuousness,  whether 
caused  by  the  warmth  of  the  climate,  or  by  a 
peculiarity  of  the  soil  or  waters,  or  other  rea- 
sons unknown  to  us,  was  especially  common 
with  the  women  of  Lesbos ; this  is  attested  by 
all  the  old  writers.  Lucian,  in  his  “Dia- 
logues of  Courtezans,”  No.  V.  (Works,  vol. 


drawn  from  me,  so  that  I may  not  be  a loser.”  Further 
on,  Dial.,  IV.:  “Callias,  pressing  me  more  closely  to  him, 
buried  his  weapon  deeper  into  my  belly,  almost  as  though 
he  were  trying  to  get  himself  in  altogether.  Soon  a de- 
licious stream  spirted  into  me,  and  at  the  same  time  I 
felt  my  liquid  boiling  over,  causing  me  such  delight  that 
I forgot  all  reticence,  and  myself  excited  Callias  more 
and  more,  pressing  him  against  me  and  begging  him  to 
quicken  his  pace.  Thus  we  expired  both  together  with 
our  muscles  relaxing  at  one  and  the  same  instant.”  You 
will  understand  by  this  the  meaning  of  the  epigram  to 
Sosipator  in  the  Analecta  of  Brunck,  I.,  p.  504: 

“Until  the  white  liquor  ran  over  with  both  of  them, 
and  Doras  unwound  her  wearied  limbs.” 

Reiske  thought  the  “white  liquor”  in  this  passage  meant 
drops  of  perspiration.  Nonsense  1 it  means  the  virus  se- 
creted by  both  sexes,  and  liberated  in  the  last  spasms  of 
lust.  Aloysia  Sigaea,  Dialogue  IV. : “As  I finished  speak- 
ing” (it  is  still  Tullia  that  speaks),  “he  got  upon  me, 
and  collecting  all  his  strength  he  pushed  the  arrow  into 
me,  he  filled  my  womb  with  his  fecundating  dew,  and  I 
also  shed  the  rivulet  of  white  liquid.  Incapable  of  endur- 
ing any  longer  so  intense  a voluptuous  feeling,  we  sank 
back  exhausted  in  each  other’s  arms.”  We  have  quoted 
besides  on  different  occasions  extracts  from  the  rich  trea- 
sures of  Aloysia  Sigaea,  on  this  subject. 


Digitized  by  Google 


200 


THE  MANUAL 


VII,  p.  349.)  : “This  is  one  of  those  tribads, 
as  they  are  to  be  found  in  Lesbos,  who  will 
have  nothing  to  do  with  men,  and  do  the 
men’s  business  with  women.”  If  such  things 
were  an  every  day  occurrence  with  the  Les- 
bian women,  we  must  believe  that  they  were 
pushed  to  them  by  natural  instigation  (30), 
and  to  allay  an  intolerable  pruriency.  Who 
has  not  heard  of  that  most  celebrated  queen 
of  all  tribads,  Sappho,  herself  a Lesbian? 
Some  authors,  Maximum  of  Tyre  the  first 
among  them,  have  with  the  best  intention 
tried  to  exonerate  her  from  his  infamous  vice; 
but  hear  her  in  Ovid  (and  he  represents  the 
Ancients  in  sentiment  and  feeling),  repu- 
diating her  would  be  opologists,  Heroides, 
XV,  15-20: 

“Neither  the  maidens  of  Pyrrha,  nor  those 
of  Methymna  (31),  nor  all  the  host  of  Les- 


(30)  Women,  whose  clitoris  is  too  prominent,  are  thus 
prevented  from  having  intercourse  with  men,  so  that 
when  they  are  seized  with  amorous  designs  they  cannot 
well  find  any  other  way  of  satisfying  their  desires  than 
by  playing  tribadism.  (Venette  IV.,  ii,  4.) 

(31)  Pyrrha  and  Methymna  are  towns  in  Lesbos. 
Pomponius  Mela,  II,  7:  “In  the  Troad  is  Lesbos,  and  in 
Lesbos  there  were  formerly  five  cities,  viz. : Antissa, 
Pyrrha,  Eresos,  Methymna,  Mytilene. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


201 


bian  beauties  please  me.  Vile  to  me  seems 
Anactoria,  vile  the  fair  Cydno,  Atthis  is  no 
more  so  dear  to  my  eyes  as  once  she  was,  nor 
yet  a hundred  others  I loved  not  innocently 
(32).  Villian!  yours  is  now  what  belonged 
to  many  women.  . . .” 
and  verse  201 : 

“Lesbian  women,  beloved,  who  made  me 
infamous!” 

Sappho  speaks  first  in  general  of  those  that 
have  submitted  to  her  caresses,  the  maidens 
of  Pyrrha  and  Methymna;  then  she  mentions 
by  name  Anactoria,  Cydno  and  Atthis, — to 
whom  Suidas  adds  Telesippa  and  Megara: 
“Her  favorites,  whom  she  loved  well,  were 
three  in  number,  Atthis,  Telesippa,  Megara, 
and  for  those  she  burnt  in  impure  passion.” 
These  passages  from  the  Ancients  are  clear 


(32)  Not  innocently,  or  rather,  “not  without  crime”; 
some  read  “which  I loved  not  without  crime”  others, 
“which  I loved  here  without  crime,”  but  the  difference 
is  not  great.  If  you  prefer  “which  I loved  here,”  the 
excuse  itself  is  a confession.  All  we  want  is  the  admission 
that  the  tribad-tastes  of  Sappho  are  no  modern  invention, 
but  originated,  how  we  know  not,  and  prevailed  in  very 
early  times.  The  love  of  woman  for  woman  was  never 
known  under  any  other  name  than  the  notorious  one  of 
tribadism. 


Digitized  by  Google 


202 


THE  MANUAL 


enough,  and  do  not  admit  of  any  doubt;  they 
even  assist  us  in  explaining  other  sentences, 
which  otherwise  seem  obscure  or  ambiguous; 
for  instance  the  “masculine  Sappho”  of  Hor- 
ace ( Epistles  I,  XIX,  28) ; “making  plaint 
against  the  maids  of  her  country”  ( Odes  II, 
XIII,  25) ; also  Ovid,  Art  of  Love,  III,  331. 

“Sappho  should  be  well  known,  too;  what 
more  wanton  than  she?”  Tristia,  II,  363: 

“What  was  the  lore  Lesbian  Sappho  taught, 
but  to  love  maids?” 
and  Martial,  VII,  68  (33). 

“Sappho,  the  amorous,  praised  our  poet- 
ess; the  latter  was  more  pure,  the  former  not 
more  perfect  in  art.” 

Lucian’s  witty  and  licentious  pen  has  made 
famous  another  tribad,  Megilla,  in  the  above 
quoted  Dialogue.  This  Dialogue  is  not  out- 
rageously obscene,  for  it  breaks  off  just  at 
the  moment  when  things  would  have  had  to 
be  said  very  plainly;  nevertheless,  the  vir- 
ginal modesty  of  our  Wieland  has  not  dared 
to  translate  it  into  German.  The  philosopher 

(33)  See  whether  it  is  with  good  reason  or  no  that  the 
succeeding  epigram,  no.  69,  calls  Philaenis  the  tribad  of 
tribads. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


203 


of  Samosata  brings  Leaena  upon  the  scene, 
and  makes  her  disclose  by  what  artifices  Me- 
gilla  gained  her  consent.  Leana  asks  Me- 
gilla: 

“Are  you  then  made  like  a man,  and  do 
with  Demonassa  (whom  Megilla  used  after 
the  manner  of  tribads),  as  men  do?  I have 
not  got  exactly  all  that,  my  Leaena,”  answers 
Megilla,  “but  I am  not  entirely  without  it. 
However,  you  will  see  me  at  work,  and  in  a 
very  pleasant  manner.  I have  been  born  like 
all  of  you,  but  I have  the  tastes,  the  desires 
and  something  else  of  a man.  Let  me  do  it 
to  you,  if  you  do  not  believe  me,  and  you 
will  see  that  I have  everything  that  men  have. 
Give  me  leave  to  work  you,  and  you  will 
see.”  Leaena  confesses  that  she  at  last  con- 
sented, moved  by  her  solicitations  and  prom- 
ises, and  no  doubt  also  by  the  novelty  of 
the  thing.  “I  let  her  have  her  way,”  she 
says,  “yielding  to  her  entreaties,  seconded  by 
a magnificent  necklet  and  a robe  of  fine  linen. 
I took  her  in  my  arms  like  a man;  she  went 
to  work  caressing  me,  panting  with  excite- 
ment and  evidently  experiencing  the  extreme 
of  pleasure.”  Clonarion  asks  her  inquisitive- 


Digitized  by  Google 


204 


THE  MANUAL 


ly:  “But  what  did  she  do  to  you  Leaena, 
and  how  did  she  manage?”  But  Leaena 
eludes  the  question.  “Do  not  ask  me  any- 
thing more;  these  are  nasty  doings;  by  Ura- 
nia, I shall  not  breathe  a word  more!”  she 
answers,  to  the  great  regret  of  the  reader, 
w'ho  would  like  to  penetrate  further  this 
mystery. 

Amongst  the  tribads  is  still  to  be  named 
Philaenis,  the  same,  no  doubt,  who  according 
to  Lucian  ( Amores , ch.  28 — Works  vol.  V, 
p.  88),  wrote  about  erotic  postures:  “Let  our 
women’s  .apartments  be  filled  by  women  like 
Philaenis,  dishonored  by  androgynic  (34) 
loves! — Sophoclidisca  in  Plautus,  to  whom 
Paegnion  says:  “Do  not  caress  me,  subagita- 
trixl”  (Persa,  act  II.,  41); — and  Folia  of 
Ariminum,  who  according  to  Horace  (Epodes, 
V,  41 ) was  “of  masculine  lubricity.”  However 
writers  as  a rule  touch  upon  these  points  more 
lightly  than  is  agreeable  to  the  curiosity  of 
the  reader.  For  the  same  reason  the  too 
great  reserve  of  Seneca  (Controversia,  II) 
is  to  be  regretted,  where  he  says  at  the  end: 

(34)  To  make  yourselves  quite  sure  about  what  the 
author  means  by  androgynic  loves,  look  at  the  passage 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


205 


“Hybreas  having  to  plead  in  favor  of  a 
man  who  had  surprised  and  killed  a tribad, 
described  the  grief  of  the  husband;  on  such 
a subject  one  must  not  ask  for  a too  particu- 
lar investigation.” 

Much  more  complete,  full  and  explicit  is 
our  good  fri6nd  of  Bilbilis  (Martial).  Hear 
him!  he  is  disclosing  the  tribadic  doings  of 
Baiba,  so  clearly  that  it  could  not  be  done 
better;  I,  91 : 

“As  no  one,  Bassa,  ever  saw  you  go  with 
men;  as  rumor  never  assigned  you  a lover, 
as  every  office  about  you  was  fulfilled  by 

as  a whole:  “Come,  you  man  of  the  new  age,  you  law- 
giver of  unknown  amours,  if  you  open  out  new  ways  to 
the  lubricity  of  men,  you  may  grant  to  the  women  equal 
license.  Let  them  cohabit  together  as  the  men  do;  let 
woman  lie  with  woman,  and  simulate  with  their  lascivious 
organs  conjunctions,  sterile  though  they  be,  as  man  lies 
with  man!  Let  the  word  one  hears  so  very  rarely,  and 
which  I am  ashamed  to  pronounce,  let  the  lubricity  of  our 
tribads  triumph  without  blushing.”  Observe  in  the  first 
place  how  tribads  were  seldom  spoken  of,  and  that  they 
kept  themselves  in  the  dark;  in  the  second  place  how  the 
immoderate  clitoris  of  the  tribad  is  said  to  simulate  las- 
civious organs  in  conjunction.  Seneca,  Controversia  Se- 
cunda, in  a similar  sense,  calls  such  a monstrosity 
an  artificial  man;  lastly  the  epithet  “sterile”  is  applied 
to  the  clitoris,  and  points  to  the  dry  unproductiveness  of 
the  tribadic  coitus. 


Digitized  by  Google 


206 


THE  MANUAL 


a troop  of  women,  no  man  ever  coming  nigh 
you,  you  seemed  to  us,  I admit,  a very 
Lucretia.  But,  oh!  shame  on  you,  Bassa,  you 
were  a fornicator  all  the  time!  You  dare  to 
conjoin  the  private  parts  of  two  women  to- 
gether, and  your  monstrous  organ  of  love 
feigns  the  absent  male.  You  have  contrived 
a miracle  to  match  the  Thebian  riddle:  that 
where  no  man  is,  there  adultery  should  be!” 

Surely  it  is  clear  enough  what  Bassa  did, 
in  conjoining  the  privates  of  two  women  to- 
gether. By  no  means!  There  are  expound- 
ers, and  very  good  ones,  too,  who  have  quite 
misunderstood  this  very  easy  passage,  and 
have  imagined  that  Bassa  misused  women  by 
introducing  into  their  vagina  a leathern  con- 
trivance, an  olisbos,  a godemiche;  we  shall 
speak  at  the  end  of  this  chapter  of  this  kind 
of  pleasure,  but  it  was  quite  unknown  to 
Bassa,  who  simulated  the  man  in  her  own 
person. 

Nothing  could  be  more  monstrous  than  the 
libertine  passion  of  Philaenis;  she  did  not 
content  herself  with  introducing  her  stiff 
clitoris  in  the  vulva  of  tribads,  Martial,  VII, 
69: 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


207 


“Tribad  of  tribads,  you,  Philaenis,  you  are 
well  justified  in  calling  her  your  mistress 
whom  you  work;”  or  in  those  of  other  young 
girls,  and  to  get  a dozen  of  them  under  her 
in  a day;  but  she  even  Dedicated  boys;  Mar- 
tial, VII,  67: 

“Philaenis  the  tribad  pedicates  boys  (35), 
and  stiffer  than  a man  in  one  day  works 
eleven  girls.” 

In  order  to  leave  nothing  untasted  in  the 
way  of  virile  lusts  she  was  also  a cunnilingue ; 
same  epigram,  at  the  end: 

“After  all  that,  when  she  is  in  good  feather, 
— she  does  not  suck,  that  is  too  feminine;  she 
devours  right  out  girls’  middle  parts.  May 
all  the  gods  confound  you,  Philaenis,  who 
think  it  manly  work  to  lick  the  vulva.” 


(35)  Instead  of  “pedicating  boys,”  Martial  might  have 
said,  if  the  metre  had  allowed  it,  “entering  boys.”  Se- 
neca’s expression  (Letter  XCV),  viros  ineunt,"  which 
was  a source  of  great  trouble  to  the  great  Justus  Lipsius, 
signifies  nothing  else:  “The  women  will  contest  for  the 
crown  of  lubricity  with  the  men.  May  the  gods  confound 
them!  one  of  their  refined  lubricities  reverses  the  laws 
of  Nature:  they  have  connection  with  men!”  There  you 
have  in  plain  words  the  turpitude  which  Justus  Lipsius 
considered  worthy  of  the  infernal  regions;  tribads  pedi- 
cating. 


Digitized  by  Google 


208 


THE  MANUAL 


Philaenis,  when  overmuch  in  rut,  caused 
herself  also  to  be  served  by  cunnilingties ; 
this  is  clear  enough  from  Martial,  IX,  41 : 
“When  Diodorus,  wanting  the  Tarpeian 
crowns,  left  Pharos  behind  and  sailed  for 
Rome,  Philaenis  vowed  that  to  celebrate  her 
mate’s  return  an  innocent  maid  should  lick 
her,  such  a one  as  the  chaste  Sabine  women 
still  cherish.” 

She  vowed  if  her  husband  returned  to  have 
her  vulva  licked  by  a young  girl,  well-known 
for  her  innocence  and  chastity;  to  have  it 
done  by  prostitutes  was  for  Philaenis  nothing 
new;  she  wanted  on  that  occasion  to  experi- 
ment with  a virgin,  exactly  like  men,  who 
always  want  something  new  and  strange  to 
spur  their  lust.  How  rare  it  was  for  women 
to  use  other  women  for  that  purpose  appears 
from  Juvenal  II,  47-49: 

“.  . . . There  will  no  other  instance  be 
found  so  abominable  in  our  sex;  Taedia  does 
not  lick  Cluvia,  nor  Flora  Catulla.” 

But  what  could  you  find  stronger,  more 
energetic  and  plainer  to  enlighten  the  reader 
completely  on  this  subject  than  the  follow- 
ing verses  in  Satire  VI,  308-333,  where  Ju- 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


209 


venal’s  ire  against  the  tribadic  orgies  in 
Rome  breaks  out  in  words  of  fire? 

“At  night  they  stop  their  litters  here,  make 
water  here,  and  flood  with  long  syphons  the 
Goddess’  statue,  and  ride  turn  and  turn  about 
and  go  through  the  motions  under  the  eye  of 
the  conscious  moon;  then  they  make  for 
home.  When  the  morning  light  returns,  you 
walk  through  your  wife’s  piss,  to  visit  your 
great  friends.  Known  are  the  secret  rites 
of  the  Bona  Dea,  when  the  flute  excite  their 
wanton  loins,  when  drunk  with  music  and 
with  wine  they  rush  along,  whirling  their 
locks  and  howling,  these  Maenads  of  Pria- 
pus! How  they  yearn  for  instant  copulation! 
how  their  voice  trembles  with  passionate 
longing!  what  floods  of  old  wine  gush  down 
their  dripping  thighs!  A prize  is  offered, 
and  Laufeia  challenges  the  brothel-master’s 
girls,  and  wins  the  first  place  for  nimble 
hips;  while  herself  is  mad  for  the  pleasure 
Medullina’s  artful  movements  give  her. 
Amongst  these  dames  merit  carries  off  the 
palm  from  noble  blood.  There  nothing  must 
be  feigned,  all  must  be  done  in  very  truth 
and  deed, — enough  to  set  on  fire,  however 


Digitized  by  Google 


210 


THE  MANUAL 


chilled  with  age,  Laomedon’s  son  and  old 
Nestor  with  his  rupture  1 Then  is  seen  mere 
lust  that  will  brook  not  a moment’s  more 
delay,  women  in  her  bare  brutality,  while 
from  every  corner  of  the  subterranean  hall 
rises  the  reiterated  cry:  “The  hour  is  come, 
admit  the  men.”  Is  the  lover  asleep?  she 
bids  the  first  young  man  to  hand  snatch  up 
his  hood  and  come  at  once.  Is  none  to  be 
found?  resort  is  had  to  slaves.  No  hope  of 
slaves?  a water-carrier  will  be  hired  to  come. 
If  he  comes  not,  and  men  there  are  none, 
she  will  not  wait  an  instant  more  but  get 
an  ass  to  mount  her  from  behind.” 

The  tribadic  orgies  were  divided  into  two 
kinds;  in  one  of  them  the  Roman  dames, 
giving  free  course  to  their  lust,  defiled  the 
altar  of  chastity;  in  the  other  they  celebrated 
the  mysteries  of  the  Bona  Dea.  You  see  in 
the  first  place  the  tribads  go  at  night  in  lit- 
ters to  the  altar  of  chastity,  there  pass  their 
water  (36)  against  the  statue  of  the  Goddess, 


(36)  When  women  are  in  rut  they  pass  their  water, 
nature  wills  it  so,  Juvenal  VI,  63-65:  “Let  lewd  Ba- 
thyllus dance  the  pantomine  of  Leda”  (representing  Leda 
receiving  Jupiter  in  a dance  with  wanton  gestures”: 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


211 


and  having  perhaps  spirted  their  urine  up  to 
her  face  (37)  they  at  all  events  wet  the  area 
all  about,  (their  husbands  walking  right 
through  it  in  the  morning,  when  they  go  to 
see  their  patrons),  and  then  they  ride  or 
allow  themselves  to  be  ridden  alternately; 

“Tuscia  cannot  command  her  bladder,  Appula  is  sigh- 
ing as  if  in  amorous  trance.  ...” 

The  same  XI,  166-168: 

“The  other  sex  however  feels  more  pleasure,  is  much 
sooner  fired,  and  lets  the  water  off,  excited  through  eyes 
and  ears.” 

(What  Juvenal  says  here  as  to  this  greater  enjoyment 
on  the  part  of  the  opposite  sex  is  connected  with  his  gen- 
eral opinion  that  women  experience  more  pleasure  in  Love 
than  men  do.  So  his  words  in  VI,  254:  For  how  in- 
significant is  our  pleasure!”  Tiresias,  called  upon  to 
arbitrate  on  this  point  in  Lucian  ( Amores , p.  85),  de- 
clared women’s  enjoyment  to  be  double  that  of  men:  "Un- 
less indeed  we  are  to  agree  with  Tiresias’  arbitrement, 
that  the  woman’s  pleasure  is  twice  that  of  the  man”). 

Martial  XI,  17 : 

“How  often  will  your  rigid  nerve  lift  up  your  tunic, 
though  you  be  as  stern  as  Curius  or  Fabricius!  You  too 
have  to  read  our  pages,  be  they  ever  so  lascivious,  young 
maiden,  though  you  come  from  Padua.” 

(37)  There  is  some  ambiguity  about  the  “long  sy- 
phons.” They  are  rivulets  of  urine  passed  near  the  statue, 
or  perhaps  Juvenal  means,  to  use  the  expression  of 
Grange,  “Urine  spirted  right  up  into  the  Goddess’  face, 
which  may  be  done  by  impudent  women  compressing  with 
the  hands  their  parts,  and  thus  retaining  for  some  time 


Digitized  by  Google 


212 


THE  MANUAL 


here  we  have  more  than  on  Philaenis,  tribad 
of  tribads!  Other  ladies  go  to  celebrate  the 
mysteries  of  the  Bona  Dea,  well  known  to 
the  public  since  the  adventures  of  Clodius 
(38).  You  observe  them  rousing  themselves 
with  the  sounds  of  flutes  and  trumpets,  as 
also  with  fumes  of  wine,  to  undergo  valiantly 
the  jousts  of  mutual  love;  you  see  their  amor- 
ous frenzy,  their  hair  flying  in  the  wind; 
you  note  their  sighs  of  longing,  and  how  they 
piss  with  excitement.  A prize  is  set,  as  in 
the  feast  of  Pope  Alexander  VI,  to  be  given 
to  the  most  intrepid  tribad:  Laufeia  calls 
upon  the  brothel-girls  to  let  her  ride  them, 
and  carries  off  the  crown  (39)  ; there  is  none 
there  of  better  heart  than  Medullina,  expert 
in  plying  her  loins  and  buttocks;  there  all 


the  water;  thus  collected  it  will  spurt  out  with  greater 
force.” 

(38)  Verse  335-339. 

“But  all  the  Moors  and  Indians  well  know  the  flute- 
girl  who  showed  a bigger  penis  than  great  Caesar’s  two 
anti-Catos,  in  that  place  from  which  a rat  will  fly,  con- 
scious of  possessing  testicles.  ...” 

(39)  The  “nimble  hips”  are  those  of  the  tribad,  who 
is  riding  another  in  the  posture  of  Apuleius’  Fotis,  Meta- 
morph.  II,  p.  122,  when  she  gratified  Lucius  with  the 
joys  of  a superincumbent  Venus. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


213 


etiquette  ceases,  mistresses  and  servants  alike 
contest  for  the  palm  of  obscenity;  there  is 
no  sham,  all  is  tribadic  reality  (40) ; but, 
after  all,  finally  nature  got  the  upper  hand 
again,  the  tribad  disappeared,  and  the  wo- 
man became  again  a woman,  leaving  alone 
tribadism,  as  a phantom  only  of  pleasure,  and 


(40)  All  this  was  actually  represented  in  Paris,  1791, 
on  the  stage  of  a theatre,  where,  according  to  the  author 
of  the  Gynaeology  III,  423,  a man  completely  naked  had 
connection  with  a woman  as  naked  as  himself,  both 
representing  savages,  accompanied  by  the  plaudits  of  both 
sexes.  There  is  however  nothing  new  under  the  sun. 
With  the  Romans  it  had  long  been  customary,  after  the 
public  games  were  finished,  to  bring  prostitutes  into  the 
arena,  and  set  them  to  work,  so  that  the  spectators  might 
have  an  opportunity  to  perform  what  they  had  been 
looking  at  with  greedy  eyes;  a herald  proclaimed  what 
was  to  come.  Tertullian,  De  Spectaculis,  ch.  17:  “Pros- 
titutes, the  victims  of  public  incontinence,  are  brought 
upon  the  stage,  shamefaced  with  respect  to  the  women 
only ; to  the  men  they  were  known ; they  are  exposed  to 
the  laughter  of  all,  high  and  low;  their  dwellings,  their 
prices,  even  their  recommendations  were  proclaimed  by 
the  crier.”  Isidorus,  Origines,  XVIII,  42:  “The  theatre 
is  like  a brothel ; when  the  games  are  over,  public  women 
are  prostituted  there.”  The  rape  of  the  Sabines  described 
in  Livy  (II,  18)  would  seem  to  have  been  a not  dissimilar 
form  of  amusement : “In  this  year  young  Sabines  in  Rome 
having,  in  the  midst  of  the  games,  abducted  some  prosti- 
tutes, the  tumult  ensuing  thereupon  degenerated  into  a 
riot,  in  fact  nearly  into  a battle.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


214 


THE  MANUAL 


not  satisfying  them;  from  all  parts  a cry  is 
raised:  “Now  is  the  time  for  the  men  to 
come  in:  go  and  find  young  men;  if  you 
cannot  find  any,  then  slaves  will  do;  if  they 
are  lacking,  bring  the  first  men  you  can 
find  in  the  streets.”  And  if  all  fails,  in  their 
shameless  wantonness,  they  will  offer  their 
buttocks  to  an  ass  (41).  On  the  origin  of 
tribads  (42)  Phedrus  has  a fable,  IV,  14: 
“Another  asked  the  reason  why  tribads  and 
cinedes  were  created.  The  old  man  thus  ex- 
plained: The  same  Prometheus,  modeller 

of  the  human  clay,  that  if  it  knock  against 
Fortune  is  shivered  in  pieces,  once  when  he 
had  been  fashioning  all  day  long  separately 
those  parts  that  modesty  keeps  hidden  be- 


(41 ) Observe  the  subtlety  of  the  expression  adopted  by 
the  poet:  “offers  her  buttocks  to  an  ass  to  get  on  them.” 
Juvenal  knows  that  a woman  has  no  chance  to  have  an 
ass’s  mentula  in  her  except  by  turning  her  back  to  the 
beast. 

(42)  Plato,  Symposium  (Works,  Zweibrucken  edition, 
vol.  X,  p.  205)  imagines  another  origin;  in  the  passage 
where  he  relates  the  celebrated  fable,  according  to  which 
Jupiter  had  cut  the  men  in  halves,  he  says:  “As  to  those 
women  who  are  halves  of  women,  they  are  not  much 
harassed  by  desires  after  men ; but  are  much  more  given 
to  amuse  themselves  with  women ; the  hetairistriae  descend 
from  their  category.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


215 


neath  a garment,  to  fit  them  presently  to  the 
bodies  he  had  made,  was  unexpectedly  in- 
vited to  supper  by  Bacchus.  There  he  im- 
bibed the  nectar  in  large  drafts,  and  returned 
late  home  with  unsteady  foot;  then  what 
with  fumes  of  wine  and  sleepiness,  he  joined 
the  female  parts  to  male  bodies,  and  fixed 
male  members  on  to  the  women.  Thus  it  is 
we  find  lust  indulging  in  depraved  pleas- 
ures.” 

The  masculine  member  applied  to  women 
is  evidently  that  clitoris  of  such  proportions 
in  erection,  that  the  tribads  can  use  it  like  a 
penis;  the  female  apparatus  fitted  on  to  man 
is  nothing  else  but  the  posterior  orifice, 
which  itches  in  the  case  of  cinedes,  just  as 
the  vulva  titillates  women.  Tribads  were  not 
wanting  in  the  times  of  Tertullian;  he  calls 
them  frictrices.  De  Pallio,  ch.  4: 

“Look  at  those  she-wolves  who  make  their 
bread  by  the  general  incontinence;  amongst 
themselves  they  are  also  frictrices.” 

The  same  author  says  in  the  De  Resurrec- 
tione Carnis,  ch.  16:  “I  do  not  call  a cup 
poisoned  which  has  received  the  last  sigh  of 
a dying  man;  I give  that  name  to  one  that 


Digitized  by  Google 


216 


THE  MANUAL 


has  been  infected  by  the  breath  of  a frictrix, 
of  a high-priest  of  Cybele,  of  a gladiator, 
of  an  executioner,  and  I ask  if  you  will  not 
refuse  it  as  you  would  such  persons’  actual 
kisses.” 

Nor  was  the  trade  of  tribad  out  of  date 
in  the  time  of  Aloysia  Sigaea: 

“Nay!  do  not  think  me”,  says  Tullia,  Dia- 
logue II,  “worse  than  others.  This  taste  is 
spread  almost  over  the  universe.  Italians, 
Spaniards,  French,  are  all  alike  as  to  the 
tribadism  of  their  women;  if  they  were  not 
ashamed,  they  would  always  be  rutting  in 
each  other’s  arms.” 

More,  she  quotes  herself  some  examples  of 
the  hot  transports  of  tribads,  Dialogue  VII: 

“Enemunda,  the  sister  of  Fernando  Porcio, 
was  very  beautiful,  and  not  less  so  was  a 
friend  of  hers,  Francisca  Beilina.  They  fre- 
quently slept  together  in  Fernando’s  house. 
Fernando  laid  secret  snares  for  Francisca; 
the  latter  knew  that  he  desired  to  have  her, 
and  was  proud  of  it.  One  morning  the  young 
man,  stung  by  his  desires,  rose  with  the  sun, 
and  stepped  out  upon  the  balcony  to  cool  his 
hot  blood.  He  heard  the  bed  of  his  sister 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY  217 

in  the  next  room  cracking  and  shaking.  The 
door  stood  open;  Venus  had  been  kind  to 
him  and  had  made  the  girls  careless.  He 
enters;  they  do  not  see  him,  blinded  and 
deafened  by  pleasure.  Francisca  was  riding 
Enemunda,  both  naked,  full  gallop.  ‘The 
noblest  and  most  powerful  mentulas  are  every 
day  after  my  maidenhead,’  said  Francisca,  ‘I 
should  select  the  finest,  dear,  but  for  you ; so 
fain  am  I to  gratify  your  tastes  and  mine.’ 
Whilst  speaking  she  was  jogging  her  vigor- 
ously. Fernando  threw  himself  naked  into 
the  bed;  the  two  girls,  almost  frightened  to 
death,  dared  not  stir.  He  draws  Francisca, 
exhausted  by  her  ride,  into  his  arms  and 
kisses  her:  ‘How  dare  you,  abandoned  girl,’ 
he  says,  ‘violate  my  sister,  who  is  so  pure 
and  chaste?  You  shall  pay  me  for  this;  I 
will  revenge  the  injury  done  to  our  house; 
answer  now  to  my  flames  as  she  has  answered 
to  yours.’  ‘My  brother!  my  brother!’  cries 
Enemunda,  ‘pardon  two  lovers,  and  do  not 
betray  us  to  slander!’  ‘No  one  shall  know 
anything,’  he  answered,  ‘let  Francisca  make 
me  a present  of  her  treasure,  and  I will  make 
you  both  a present  of  my  silence.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


218 


THE  MANUAL 


The  conversation  of  Ottavia  with  Tullia, 
acting  as  tribad,  in  the  same  work  (Dialogue 
II)  is  still  bolder  and  more  to  the  point: 

Tullia:  Pray  do  not  draw  back;  open  your 
thighs. 

OTTAVIA:  Very  well!  Now  you  cover  me 
entirely,  your  mouth  against  mine,  your 
breast  against  mine,  your  belly  against  mine; 
I will  clasp  you  as  you  are  clasping  me. 

Tullia:  Raise  your  legs,  cross  your  thighs 
over  mine,  I will  show  you  a new  Venus;  to 
you  quite  new.  How  nicely  you  obey!  I 
wish  I could  command  as  well  as  you  execute! 

OTTAVIA:  Ah!  ah!  my  dear  Tullia,  my 
queen!  how  you  push!  how  you  wriggle!  I 
wish  those  candles  were  out;  I am  ashamed 
there  should  be  light  to  see  how  submissive 
I am. 

TULLIA:  Now  mind  what  you  are  doing! 
when  I push,  do  you  rise  to  meet  me;  move 
your  buttocks  vigorously,  as  I move  mine,  and 
lift  up  as  high  as  ever  you  can!  Is  your 
breath  coming  short? 

OTTAVIA:  You  dislocate  me  with  your  vio- 
lent pushing;  you  stifle  me;  I would  not  do 
it  for  any  one  but  you. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


219 


Tullia:  Press  me  tightly,  Ottavia,  take 
. . . there!  I am  all  melting  and  burning,  ah! 
ah!  ah! 

OTTAVIA:  Your  affair  is  setting  fire  to  mine 
— draw  back! 

TULLIA:  At  last,  my  darling,  I have  served 
you  as  a husband;  you  are  my  wife  now! 

OTTAVIA:  I wish  to  heaven  you  were  my 
husband!  What  a loving  wife  I should  make! 
What  a husband  I should  have!  But  you 
have  inundated  my  garden;  I am  all  be- 
dewed! What  have  you  been  doing,  Tullia? 

TULLIA:  I have  done  everything  up  to  the 
end,  and  from  the  dark  recesses  of  my  vessel 
love  in  blind  transports  has  shot  the  liquor  of 
Venus  into  your  maiden  barque. 

Leo  Africanus,  in  his  Description  of  Af- 
rica, p.  336  (edition  Elzevir,  of  1632),  men- 
tions the  tribads  of  Fez: 

“But  those  who  have  more  common  sense, 
call  these  women  (he  is  speaking  of  witches) 
“Sahacat,”  a word  which  corresponds  with 
the  Latin  fricatrices,  because  they  take  their 
pleasure  with  each  other.  I cannot  speak 
more  plainly  without  offending  decency. 
When  good-looking  women  visit  them,  these 


Digitized  by  Google 


220 


THE  MANUAL 


witches  fall  at  once  in  hot  love  with  them, 
not  less  hot  than  the  love  of  young  men  for 
girls,  and  they  ask  them  in  the  guise  of  the 
devil  to  pay  them  by  suffering  their  em- 
braces. So  it  happens  that  very  often  when 
they  think  they  have  been  obeying  the  be- 
hests of  demons,  they  have  really  only  had  to 
do  with  witches.  Many,  too,  pleased  with 
the  game  they  have  played,  seek  of  their  own 
impulse  to  enjoy  intercourse  again  with  the 
witches,  and  under  pretence  of  being  ill, 
summon  one  of  them  or  send  their  unfor- 
tunate husbands  to  fetch  her.  Then  the 
witches,  seeing  how  matters  stand,  asseverate 
that  the  wife  is  possessed  by  a demon,  and 
can  only  be  liberated  by  joining  their  asso- 
ciation.” 

You  ask  whether  tribads  are  still  to  be 
found  in  our  days?  If  there  are  none  now, 
there  certainly  were  some  in  existence  in 
Paris  only  a short  time  before  the  Great 
Revolution,  if  we  are  to  trust  the  author  of 
Gynaeology , III,  p.  428.  There  was  a veri- 
table college  of  tribads  in  Paris,  who  went 
by  the  names  of  Vestals,  holding  regular 
meetings  in  particular  localities.  There  were 


Digitized  by  Googli 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


221 


a great  many  members,  and  of  the  highest 
classes;  they  had  their  statutes  with  respect 
to  admission;  the  affiliated  were  divided  into 
three  degrees:  aspirants,  postulants,  the  ini- 
tiated. Before  the  postulant  could  be  ad- 
mitted to  the  secret  of  the  order,  she  had  to 
undergo  for  three  days  a difficult  probation: 
shut  up  in  a cell  tapestried  with  lewd  pic- 
tures, and  ornamented  with  carved  Priapi  of 
magnificent  proportions,  she  had  to  keep  up  a 
fire  with  I do  not  know  how  many  ingre- 
dients, and  arranged  in  such  a manner  that 
it  would  go  out  if  there  was  taken  too  much 
or  too  little  of  any  of  the  materials;  on  the 
four  altars  of  the  temple,  which  was  adorned 
with  statues  of  Sappho,  of  the  Lesbians  she 
had  loved,  and  of  the  Chevalier  d’Eon,  who 
for  so  many  years  successfully  dissimulated 
his  sex,  and  with  splendid  hangings,  per- 
petual fires  were  burning.  Kept  English 
women,  too,  did  not  recoil  at  tribadism,  as 
the  same  author  states,  III,  p.  394.  He 
affirms  that  not  long  before  the  close  of  the 
last  century,  confederacies  of  tribads,  called 
Alexandrine  confederacies,  were  still  in  ex- 


Digitized  by  Google 


222 


THE  MANUAL 


istence  in  London,  though  in  a small  num- 
ber only. 

Enough  now  of  those  who  are,  strictly 
speaking,  included  under  the  name  of  tri- 
bads;  but  the  word  has  a more  extended 
signification.  The  term  is  also  applied  to 
those  women  who  in  default  of  a real  men- 
tula, make  use  of  their  finger  or  of  a leathern 
contrivance,  which  they  introduce  into  their 
vulva,  and  so  attain  a fictitious  enjoyment 
Germany,  I have  lately  heard,  has  been  ring- 
ing with  complaints  about  this  abuse.  As 
regards  the  leathern  engine  (43),  called  by 
the  Greeks  olisbos,  the  women  of  Miletus, 
above  all  others,  made  it  their  instrument  of 
pleasure.  Aristophanes,  in  the  Lysistrata, 
108-110: 

“For  since  the  day  the  Milesians  left  us 
in  the  lurch,  not  an  olisbos  have  I set  eyes 
on,  eight  inches  long, — that  might  give  us  its 
leathern  aid.  . .” 

Suidas  under  the  word  “****”; 

“A  virile  member  made  of  leather  which 
was  used  by  Milesian  women,  as  being  tri- 

(43)  Another  use  of  these  leathern  engines  has  been 
noted  in  chap.  II. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


223 


bads  and  immodest.  It  was  also  made  use  of 
by  widows.” 

The  same  author  under  the  word  **** : 
“Cratinus  also  says  on  this  head:  Lewd 
women  will  be  using  the  olisbos.” 

Hesychius  quotes  the  same  passage: 

If  you  ask  whether  modern  women,  who 
have  suffered  the  wrong  of  seeing  their  beau- 
ty slighted,  actually  have  recourse  to  this 
leathern  substitute,  Aloysia  Sigaea  (Dialogue 
II)  shall  answer  you: 

“The  Milesian  women  made  for  them- 
selves imitations  in  leather,  eight  inches  long 
and  thick  in  proportion.  Aristophanes  tells 
us  that  the  women  of  his  day  habitually  made 
use  of  such.  And  to  this  very  day  Italian, 
Spanish  and  Asiatic  women  honor  this  in- 
strument with  a place  in  their  toilet  appar- 
atus; it  is  their  most  precious  possession,  and 
one  very  highly  appreciated.” 

It  is  an  undoubted  fact  that  the  Roman 
matrons  cherished  a species  of  inoffensive 
snake  (44),  the  cold  skin  of  which  served 


(44)  This  sort  of  snake  served  also  to  amuse  men. 
Suetonius,  Tiberius , ch.  72:  “He  kept  for  amusement  a 
snake ; one  day,  when  he  went  as  usual  to  feed  it,  he 


Digitized  by  Google 


224 


THE  MANUAL 


as  a refrigerator  in  summer,  Martial,  VII,  86: 

“If  Glacilla  winds  an  icy  serpent  round 
her  neck  . . 

Lucian  Alexander  (Works,  vol.  IV,  p.  259)  : 

“In  that  country  one  sees  serpents  of  an 
enormous  size,  but  so  quiet  and  mild  that  they 
are  fondled  by  women,  sleep  with  the  chil- 
dren, do  not  get  angry  on  being  trodden  on 
or  handled,  and  suck  the  nipples  of  the  breast 
like  a nursling.” 

This  being  so,  our  eminent  Bottiger  was 
probably  right,  when  he  wrote  page  454  of 
his  Sabina  (45)  a profoundly  scientific  work 
in  German,  that  very  likely  snakes  were  used 

found  it  devoured  entirely  by  ants,  which  he  took  as  a 
warning  to  guard  against  being  attacked  by  a mob.” 
Pliny,  Nat.  Hist.  XXIX,  ch.  4:  “The  Aesculapian  ser- 
pent was  brought  to  Rome  from  Epidaurus;  it  was  kept 
in  the  public  edifices,  and  also  in  private  houses.”  Seneca, 
in  the  De  Ira,  II,  ch.  31,  speaks  of:  "Those  snakes  that 
glide  harmlessly  amid  the  cups  and  into  the  bosoms  of 
the  guests.”  They  were  not  of  a small  size ; this  appears 
from  what  Philostratus  says  in  his  Heroics,  VIII,  1 : 
“Ajax  had  a tame  snake  of  five  cubits  length,  which  kept 
close  to  him,  guided  him  on  his  way,  and  followed  him 
about  like  a dog.”  This  kind  of  snake  was  very  common 
at  Pella,  in  Macedonia,  as  Lucian  says  in  a passage  quoted 
in  the  text:  “There  are  many  such  in  their  country.” 
They  are  still  to  be  found  in  Italy,  according  to  Justus 
Lipsius  in  his  Notes  to  Seneca. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


225 


as  instruments  to  satisfy  the  lubricity  of 
amorous  women.  You  may  understand  now 
what  happened,  or  what  might  have  hap- 
pened to  Atia,  the  mother  of  Augustus,  of 
whom  Suetonius  ( Augustus , ch.  94)  wrote: 

“I  read  in  the  treatise  of  Asclepiades  of 
Mende  called  the  Theologumena,  how  Atia 
the  mother  of  Augustus,  having  gone  at  mid- 
night to  the  temple  of  Apollo,  to  assist  at  a 
solemn  sacrifice,  fell  asleep,  and  so  did  the 
other  women  present;  how  a serpent  sud- 
denly glided  close  to  her,  and  after  some 
little  time  withdrew  again,  and  how  on 
waking  she  purified  herself,  as  though  she 
had  left  the  arms  of  her  husband.” 

There  would  be  nothing  surprising  in  the 
fact  that  a serpent  of  that  sort  should  have 
investigated  even  without  incitation  on  Atia’s 
part,  a certain  locality  which  was  well  known 
to  it  by  the  lubricity  of  other  women,  and 
that  Atia  felt  on  awakening  the  very  same 
sensation  as  though  she  had  undergone  a real 
coitus. 


(45)  “Sabina,  or  the  Morning  Toilette  of  a Roman 
Lady  at  the  end  of  the  First  Century,”  translated  into 
French  by  Clapier,  1813,  8vo. 


Digitized  by  Google 


CHAPTER  VII 

OF  INTERCOURSE  WITH  ANIMALS 

T will  not  be  out  of  place  to  say 
something  here  of  the  incontinence 
of  those  who  have  carried  out  car- 
nal intercourse  with  animals.  It 
appears  that  in  Egypt  the  Mendesians,  who 
paid  divine  honors  to  a he-goat  (46),  pros- 
tituted to  him  publicly  women,  even  against 
his  inclination,  in  celebrating  his  rites.  Hero- 
todus  II,  46: 

“A  monstrous  affair  was  connected  with 
this  district  (viz.,  the  Mendesian)  in  my 
time;  a he-goat  covered  a woman  in  public.” 
Strabo,  XVII,  p.  802: 

“Mendes,  where  they  worship  Pan,  and  a 

(46)  Plutarch,  Of  Animals  that  have  Reason,  p,  989, 
vol.  II,  of  his  works:  “It  is  reported  in  Egypt  the  he- 
goat  Mendes,  shut  up  with  a great  number  of  women, 
all  of  them  beautiful,  refused  to  have  anything  to  do 
with  them,  and  prefers  goats  by  far.” 

227 


Digitized  by  Google 


228 


THE  MANUAL 


live  he-goat;  the  latter  in  that  place  have 
intercourse  with  women  (47).” 

The  Jews  also  knew  something  of  the  prac- 
tice; as  we  know  from  the  law  of  Moses, 
Leviticus  xx,  15-16: 

“And  if  a man  lie  with  a beast,  he  shall 
surely  be  put  to  death:  and  ye  shall  slay  the 
beast.  And  if  a woman  approach  unto  any 
beast,  and  lie  down  thereto,  thou  shalt  kill 
the  woman,  and  the  beast:  they  shall  surely  be 
put  to  death”  . . . 

How  should  Juvenal  have  come  to  tell  us, 
Satire  VI,  332-33 : 

“.  . . no  more  delay  is  there;  she  hastens 
to  make  a donkey  ride  her  from  behind,” 
if  it  had  not  been  known  that  women  some- 
times submitted  themselves  to  asses?  Would 
Apuleius  have  thought  of  describing  to  us 
with  no  less  minuteness  than  wit  the  scene  in 
which  Lucius,  changed  into  an  ass  by  a mis- 
take of  Fotis,  effects  intercourse  with  a ma- 
tron? Metamorphoses,  book  X,  p.  249: 

“But  I was  a prey  to  grave  apprehensions; 

(47)  If  we  may  believe  Venette  (II,  iv.  3),  there  is 
nothing  more  common  in  Egypt  at  the  present  day  than 
for  young  women  to  have  intercourse  with  he-goats. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


229 


I asked  myself  how  I,  with  my  long  and 
coarse  legs,  could  mount  a delicate  woman, 
clasp  with  my  hard  hoofs  her  soft  and  tender 
limbs  that  looked  like  milk  and  honey;  how 
could  I with  my  enormous  mouth,  furnished 
with  teeth  as  big  as  tomb-stones,  kiss  those 
small,  rosy,  scented  lips;  how  lastly  this  lady, 
although  in  rut  to  her  very  finger  nails,  could 
take  in  such  a big  genital  verge  . . . She, 
however,  doubled  her  tender  allurements,  her 
endless  kisses,  her  sweet  murmurings,  inter- 
spersed with  sweet  glances  like  stings:  ‘I 
hold  you  at  last,’  she  cried,  ‘I  hold  my  dove, 
my  sparrow!’  and  having  said  this,  she 
showed  me  how  vain  my  fears  had  been  for 
embracing  me  as  closely  as  she  could,  she 
received  me  inside  entirely,  out  and  out. 
Even  more  than  that,  whenever  I drew  back 
in  order  to  spare  her,  she  pushed  closer  to 
me,  and  clasping  my  backbone  like  mad,  she 
clung  to  me  so  closely  that,  by  Hercules,  I 
began  to  think  that  I was  not  well  enough 
furnished  to  assuage  her  passion  completely.” 

A young  girl  of  Tuscany  got  herself  cov- 
ered by  a dog  in  the  time  of  Pius  V,  the 
Roman  Pope,  as  reported  by  Venette  II,  iv., 


Digitized  by  Google 


230 


THE  MANUAL 


ch.  3 ; and  according  to  a note  of  Elmenhorst 
on  the  above  quoted  passage  of  Apuleius,  a 
woman  was  discovered  in  Paris,  in  October, 
1601,  to  have  had  connection  with  a dog.  The 
law  was  appealed  to,  and  in  conformity  with 
the  unanimous  verdict  pronounced  by  the  par- 
liament, the  adulterous  woman  and  the  dog 
were  both  burnt  alive.  Nayl  more,  a woman 
has  been  known  to  submit  to  a crocodile,  if 
we  may  believe  Plutarch,  who  reports  in  his 
treatise  On  the  Sagacity  of  Animals  (p.  976, 
vol.  II,  of  the  complete  Works)  : 

“Quite  lately  our  excellent  Philinus,  on  re- 
turning from  a long  voyage  to  Egypt,  told 
me  that  he  had  seen  at  Antaeopolis  an  old 
woman  sleeping  with  a crocodile  stretched 
comfortably  beside  her  on  her  pallet.” 

Nor  have  men  despised  the  vulva  of  ani- 
mals. Plate  III  of  the  Monuments  du  Culte 
Secret  des  Dames  Romaines,  shows  the  pic- 
ture of  a man  working  away  in  a goat,  though 
the  annotator  ought  not  to  have  quoted  in 
illustration  of  it  a passage  of  Virgil  ( Bucol- 
ics III.,  8.),  which  has  nothing  whatever  to 
do  with  this  matter: 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


231 


“We  know  who  (pedicated)  you,  while  the 
he-goats  looked  at  you  askance.” 

In  our  countries  legal  cases  show  that  not 
only  goats,  but  also  sheep,  cows,  and  mares, 
have  sometimes  charmed  shepherds  and  other 
people  of  low  breeding. 


Digitized  by  Google 


CHAPTER  VIII 

OF  SPINTRIAN  POSTURES 

N the  sundry  kinds  of  voluptuous 
enjoyment  which  we  have  studied 
so  far,  there  are  almost  always 
only  two  persons  in  action.  It 
happens,  nevertheless,  that  more  than  two, 
three  or  even  more,  may  enjoy  themselves 
together;  this  is  what  we  call  after  Tiberius, 
the  spintrian  kind.  Suetonius,  Tiberius,  ch. 
43: 

“In  his  retreat  at  Capri  he  had  a sellaria, 
the  scene  of  his  secret  debaucheries,  in  which 
chosen  groups  of  young  girls  and  worn-out 
voluptuaries,  the  inventors  of  monstrous  con- 
junctions, called  by  him  spintries,  formed  a 
triple  chain,  surrendered  themselves  to  mu- 
tual defilements  in  his  presence,  so  as  to  re- 
animate by  this  spectacle  his  languishing  de- 
sires.” 

This  sellaria,  by  the  etymology  of  the  word, 
233 


Digitized  by  Google 


234 


THE  MANUAL 


was  evidently  a room  furnished  with  seats; 
those  who  prostituted  each  other  on  these 
seats  were  called  “ sellarii ,”  from  the  place, 
and  " spintriae ,”  from  the  chain  they  formed. 
Spinter,  according  to  Festus,  p.  443,  signi- 
fied, “a  kind  of  bracelet  worn  by  women  on 
the  upper  part  of  the  left  arm.”  The  word 
is  probably  a corruption  of  sphincter,  the 
Greek  ****  from  ****,  “I  clasp,”  as  for  in- 
stance, a band  surrounding  the  arm.  Tac- 
itus, Annals,  VI.,  ch.  1 : 

“Then  there  were  invented  names  never 
known  before,  as  for  instance,  sellarii  and 
spintriae , names  taken  from  the  turpitude  of 
the  place  or  from  the  complicated  infamies 
undergone.” 

Spintries  then  are  those  who,  linked  like 
the  rings  of  a bracelet,  thus  accomplish  the 
pleasures  of  Venus.  Three  can  link  them- 
selves thus,  two  and  two,  in  such  a way  that 
while  the  middle  one  is  a fornicator  or  a 
pedicon,  in  front  is  a woman  or  a cinede, 
behind  a pedicon.  Such  was  the  chain  formed 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


235 


by  those  ausonius  ( Epigram  CXXIX.)  de- 
scribes (48) : 

“Three  in  one  bed;  two  submit  to  the  in- 
famous act,  two  perform  it. — Four  there  are, 
I suppose. — Wrong!  to  the  outermost  ones 
give  a villainy  apiece;  count  the  man  in  the 
middle  twice,  for  he  both  acts  and  submits. 

Do  you  want  to  see  the  one  in  the  middle 
working  a woman?  Plate  XL.  of  the  Mon- 
uments de  la  Vie  Privee  des  douze  Cesars 
shows  you  an  example.  Do  you  wish  to  see 
the  middle  one  pedicating?  Look  at  plate 
XXVII. 

There  is,  however,  no  need  that  the  middle 
actor  should  fornicate  or  pedicate.  He  may 
be  placed  between  his  two  companions  in 
such  a way  that  while  he  is  enduring  the 
assault  of  a pederast  behind,  he  may  in  front 
irrumate,  suck  a member  or  lick  a vulva. 
Hostius  whose  mind  was  so  fertile  in  inventing 
obscenities  that  he  was  held  up  as  an  exam- 
ple to  future  ages,  has  tried  all  these  postures 
and  even  added  fresh  variations.  Seneca 
(Nat.  Quaest.,  L,  16)  has  inveighed  against 

(48)  Translation  by  Ausonius  of  a Greek  Epigram  of 
Strata,  to  be  found  in  Brunck’s  Analecta,  II,  380. 


Digitized  by  Google 


236 


THE  MANUAL 


him  more  vehemently  than  is  perhaps  fit  for 
a philosopher.  It  seems  to  me  as  though  some 
secret  voluptuousness  has  been  acting  here 
on  the  sense  of  this  rigid  guardian  of  virtue; 
he  says: 

“I  will  tell  you  here  a story  which  will 
show  you  that  lust  will  not  distain  any  arti- 
fice which  is  calculated  to  rouse  desires,  and 
to  stimulate  its  own  fury.  The  lascivious- 
ness of  Hostius  was  of  the  extremest  kind. 
It  was  this  rich  miser,  this  slave  of  a hundred 
million  sesterces,  whose  death,  when  he  had 
been  assassinated  by  his  slaves,  Augustus 
would  not  avenge,  although  he  would  not 
say  that  they  were  right  to  kill  him.  His 
lewdness  was  not  contented  with  one  sex; 
he  was  as  passionate  for  men  as  for  women. 
He  had  mirrors  made  which  magnified  the 
reflections  so  much  that  a finger  appeared 
as  big  as  an  arm.  These  mirrors  were  placed 
in  such  a manner  that  when  he  had  a man 
under  him  he  could  watch  every  movement 
of  his  accomplice,  and  enjoy  as  it  were  the 
fictitious  size  of  his  member.  He  chose  his 
men  carefully,  the  measuring  tape  in  hand, 
and  still  had  to  deceive  his  insatiable  passion. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


237 


It  would  be  too  outrageous  to  report  every- 
thing which  this  monster,  that  ought  to  have 
been  torn  into  pieces,  dared  to  say  and  do 
with  his  mouth ; when  surrounded  on  all  sides 
by  his  mirrors  he  was  the  spectator  of  his 
own  turpitudes,  and  those  secret  infamies 
which  every  man  would  deny,  if  accused  of 
them,  of  such  he  took  his  fill  not  with  his 
mouth  only,  but  also  with  eyes.  And,  by 
Hercules,  generally  speaking  crimes  shun 
their  own  reflection;  men  who  are  bare  of 
every  feeling  of  honor  and  exposed  to  every 
insult,  still  have  some  sense  of  shame,  and 
do  not  appear  as  they  are.  But  he  feasted 
his  eyes  on  unheard  of  and  unknown  infamies, 
and,  not  content  to  see  simply  how  he  dis- 
honored himself,  he  surrounded  himself  with 
mirrors,  for  the  sake  of  multiplying  and 
grouping  his  lubricities.  As  he  could  not 
see  unaided  everything  distinctly  when,  ped- 
icated  by  one  man,  he  had  his  head  between 
the  thighs  of  another,  he  saw  by  his  mirrors 
what  he  was  doing  and  how.  He  saw  the 
lewd  work  of  his  mouth,  and  watched  him- 
self absorbing  men  by  every  orifice.  Some- 
times placed  between  a man  and  a woman, 


Digitized  by  Google 


238 


THE  MANUAL 


olaying  both  ways  the  passive  part,  he  wai 
able  to  see  the  greatest  abominations.  Dark- 
ness was  not  for  him!  So  far  from  being- 
afraid  of  the  light  of  day,  he  wanted  it  for 
his  monstrous  copulations,  and  was  proud  to 
have  them  illuminated  by  it.  Nay,  more,  he 
even  wanted  to  be  painted  in  these  attitudes. 
Even  prostitutes  have  a certain  reserve,  and 
those  that  abandon  themselves  to  the  out- 
rages of  all,  veil  to  some  extent  their  poor 
complaisances,  and  the  very  brothel  keeps 
some  relics  of  decency;  but  this  monster 
turned  his  obscenities  into  a spectacle  for 
himself. 

“Yes,”  he  said,  “I  submit  myself  to  a maD 
and  a woman  at  the  same  time;  but  never- 
theless with  the  organs  which  are  left  free  to 
me  I am  still  able  to  commit  a worse  ig- 
nominy. All  my  limbs  are  polluted;  then 
shall  my  eyes  also  take  part  in  my  enjoy- 
ments, they  shall  be  witnesses  and  judges. 
What  I cannot  see  in  a natural  way  let  me 
see  by  the  help  of  art,  so  that  I may  not  be 
ignorant  of  what  I am  doing.  No  matter 
to  me  that  Nature  has  provided  man  witk 
such  insignificant  organs  of  voluptuousness, 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


239 


the  same  nature  which  has  furnished  animals 
so  well;  I find  means  to  deceive  my  passion, 
and  to  satisfy  myself.  Where  is  the  harm, 
if  I try  to  imitate  nature?  I will  have  mir- 
rors which  shall  reflect  images  of  incredible 
dimensions.  If  I could,  I would  make  these 
images  real;  as  I cannot,  I must  be  satisfied 
with  phantoms.  Let  me  see  these  objects  of 
obscenity  larger  than  they  are  in  reality,  and 
surprise  myself  by  the  sight  of  them!” 

Plate  XXI.  of  the  Monuments  de  la  Vie 
Privee  des  douze  Cesars  shows  the  picture  of 
Tiberius  in  a very  strange  spintrian  posture, 
which,  however,  is  not  without  charm;  the 
emperor,  half  reclining  on  his  back,  licks  one 
girl’s  privates  who  is  kneeling  over  him, 
while  he  offers  his  penis  to  be  sucked  by 
another. 

There  are  also  arrangements  where  more 
than  three  can  join,  making  thus  a longer 
chain.  Let  a man  put  his  member  into  a 
woman  while  both  of  them  are  being  pedi- 
cated  at  the  same  time,  and  you  have  four 
people  forming  a triple  chain,  like  those  of 
Tiberius  in  the  passage  of  Suetonius  quoted 
above.  Suppose  then  another  pedicon  on 


Digitized  by  Google 


240 


THE  MANUAL 


each  end,  and  then  you  have  a group  of  five, 
forming  a quadruple  interweaving.  Martial, 
XII,  43: 

“There  are  to  be  found  novel  figures  of 
Love,  such  as  the  impassioned  fornicator  may 
try,  such  as  experienced  libertines  perform 
and  keep  the  secret  of;  how  five  can  copu- 
late in  a group,  how  more  still  may  be  con- 
nected in  a chain.” 

Look  at  Plate  XXXVI.  of  the  Monuments 
de  la  Vie  privee  des  douze  Cesars,  with  a 
group  of  five  copulators  artistically  diversi- 
fied. Nero,  lying  face  downwards,  enters  one 
girl  who  is  on  her  back,  at  the  same  time 
licking  the  privates  of  another  who  is  stand- 
ing; he  himself  is  being  pedicated,  while  the 
girl  standing  also  submits  her  behind  to  a 
pedicon.  That  such  a chain  may  be  extended 
infinitely,  is  self  evident 


Digitized  by  Google 


ENUMERATION 


OF  THE 

EROTIC  POSTURES 


1.  The  man  face  downwards  taking  be- 

tween his  thighs  the  woman,  who  lies 
on  her  back  with  her  legs  stretched 
out  straight. 

2.  The  man  face  downwards  taken  between 

her  thighs  by  the  woman,  who  lies  on 
her  back  with  the  legs  apart. 

3.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back  taking 

only  one  leg  of  her  cavalier  between 
her  thighs. 

4.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back  with  her 

feet  crossed  over  the  loins  of  the  man. 

5.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back  with  one 

of  her  legs  stretched  out,  and  the  other 
over  the  man’s  loins. 

6.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back  with  the 

cavalier  mounted  on  her  with  his  back 
towards  her  face. 

241 


Digitized  by  Google 


242 


THE  MANUAL 


7.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back,  with  the 

cavalier  mounted  athwart  her. 

8.  The  man  lying  with  the  woman  half 

couched  on  her  side  with  the  legs 
stretched  out. 

9.  The  man  lying  with  the  woman  half 

couched  on  her  side,  one  leg  stretched 
out,  the  other  one  over  the  man’s 
loins. 

10.  The  woman  half  couched,  the  man 

mounted  with  his  back  to  her. 

11.  The  man  on  his  knees,  the  woman  on 

her  back  with  her  legs  open. 

12.  The  woman  on  her  back  with  her  legs 

resting  on  the  man’s  loins,  who  is 
kneeling. 

13.  The  woman  on  her  back,  one  leg 

stretched  out,  the  other  one  resting 
on  the  loins  of  the  man,  who  is  kneel- 
ing. 

14.  The  woman  on  her  back  with  her  legs 

on  the  shoulders  of  the  man,  who  is 
kneeling. 

15.  The  woman  on  her  back  with  one  leg 

resting  on  the  loins  of  the  man,  who 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


243 


is  on  his  knees,  and  the  other  one 
on  his  shoulder. 

17.  The  man  kneeling  gets  into  the  woman, 

who  is  in  a sitting  position  with  her 
thighs  open. 

18.  The  woman  sitting  with  one  leg  stretched 

out,  and  the  other  resting  on  the  loins 
of  the  man,  who  is  kneeling. 

19.  The  woman  sitting,  with  her  two  legs 

resting  on  the  loins  of  the  kneeling 
man. 

20.  The  woman  sitting  with  one  leg  stretched 

out,  and  the  other  on  the  shoulder  of 
her  cavalier  on  his  knees. 

21.  The  woman  sitting  with  her  two  legs  on 

the  shoulders  of  her  cavalier  on  his 
knees. 

22.  The  woman  sitting,  one  of  her  legs  on 

the  shoulder  of  the  man  on  his  knees, 
the  other  one  stretched  out. 

23.  The  man  on  his  knees,  the  woman  with 

her  back  to  him. 

24.  The  man  on  his  back,  the  woman  facing 

him. 

25.  The  man  on  his  back  with  the  woman 

turning  her  back  to  him. 


Digitized  by  Google 


244  THE  MANUAL 

26.  The  man  on  his  back,  the  woman  athwart 

him. 

27.  The  man  on  his  back,  with  the  woman 

lifted  up. 

28.  The  man  sitting  with  the  woman  facing 

him. 

29.  The  man  sitting,  the  woman  facing  him, 

with  her  legs  in  the  air. 

30.  The  man  sitting  with  the  woman  turn- 

ing her  back  upon  him. 

31.  Man  and  woman  standing. 

3*2.  Man  and  woman  standing,  with  one  leg 
of  man  or  the  woman  lifted  up. 

33.  The  man  standing,  with  the  woman  on 

her  back,  her  legs  open. 

34.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back,  with  her 

legs  lifted  on  the  loins  of  the  man, 
who  is  standing. 

35.  The  woman  lying  on  her  back,  one  leg 

stretched  out  and  the  other  lifted  on 
the  loins  of  the  man,  who  is  standing. 

36.  The  woman  on  her  back,  with  her  two 

legs  on  the  shoulders  of  the  man,  who 
is  standing. 


Digitized  by  Coogle 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


245 


37.  The  woman  on  her  back,  one  leg  stretched 

out  and  the  other  one  on  the  shoulder 
of  the  man,  who  is  standing. 

38.  The  woman  on  her  back,  with  one  of 

her  legs  on  the  shoulder  of  the  man, 
who  is  standing,  the  other  over  his 
loins. 

39.  The  man  standing,  the  woman  half  lying 

on  her  side. 

40.  The  man  standing,  getting  into  the  wo- 

man who  is  sitting  with  her  legs  open. 

41.  The  man  standing,  getting  into  the  wo- 

man sitting  with  her  legs  in  the  air. 

42.  The  man  standing,  the  woman  sitting 

with  one  leg  stretched  out  and  the 
other  one  lifted  up. 

43.  The  man  standing  and  the  woman  lifted 

up. 

44.  The  woman  lifted  up,  with  her  legs  on 

the  shoulders  of  the  man,  who  is  stand- 
ing. 

45.  The  man  standing,  the  woman  on  her 

knees,  with  her  back  towards  him. 

46.  The  man  standing,  the  woman  crouching 

down,  with  her  back  towards  him. 


Digitized  by  Google 


246 


THE  MANUAL 


47.  The  man  standing,  the  woman  with  her 

back  towards  him,  the  lower  part  of 
the  body  elevated,  and  the  upper  part 
resting  on  the  bed. 

48.  The  man  standing,  the  woman  turning 

her  back  to  him  with  the  lower  part 
of  the  body  artificially  raised. 

49.  A man  lying  down  and  being  pedicated. 

50.  A man  pedicated  standing. 

51.  A man  on  his  knees  being  pedicated. 

52.  A man  pedicated  crouching  down. 

53.  Irrumator  lying  down 

54.  Irrumator  sitting. 

55.  Irrumator  standing. 

56.  Irrumator  kneeling. 

57.  Irrumator  crouching. 

58.  Cunnilingue  lying  down. 

59.  Cunnilingue  sitting. 

60.  Cunnilingue  standing. 

61.  Cunnilingue  kneeling. 

62.  Cunnilingue  crouching. 

63.  Fellatrix  and  cunnilingue. 

64.  Masturbator. 

65.  The  helping  hand. 

66.  A third  hand  helping. 

67.  The  finger  helping. 


Digitized  by  Google 


OF  CLASSICAL  EROTOLOGY 


247 


68.  The  assistance  of  a leathern  godemiche. 

69.  Coitus  with  a male  animal. 

70.  Coitus  with  a female  animal. 

71.  Tribad  at  work  on  a woman. 

72.  Tribad  pedicating. 

73.  Three  spintries:  a fornicator  pedicated. 

74.  Three  spintries:  a pederast  pedicated. 

75.  Three  spintries:  a fellator  being  pedi- 

cated. 

76.  Three  spintries:  a fellator  entering  a 

woman. 

77.  Three  spintries:  a fellator  pedicating. 

78.  Three  spintries:  a fellator  irrumating. 

79.  Three  spintries:  a fellatrix  entered  by  a 

man. 

80.  Three  spintries : a fellatrix  pedicated. 

81.  Three  spintries:  a fellatrix  offers  her 

vulva  for  licking. 

82.  Three  spintries:  a cunnilingue  fornicat- 

ing. 

83.  Three  spintries:  a cunnilingue  pedicat- 

ing. 

84.  Three  spintries : a cunnilingue  irrumates 

85.  Three  spintries:  a cunnilingue  being 

pedicated. 


Digitized  by  Google 


248 


THE  MANUAL 


86.  Three  spintries;  a female  cunnilingue  is 

entered  by  a man. 

87.  Three  spintries:  a female  cunnilingue 

is  pedicated. 

88.  Four  spintries  forming  a double  chain. 

89.  Four  spintries  forming  a triple  chain. 

90.  Group  of  five  copulators. 

THE  END 


Digitized  by  Google 


1 

[ 

