THE   EISENHOWER   LIBRARY 


SPECIAL 

Collections 


3   1151    02744   081 


.;^yic 


l.I  DKAin' 


|()ii\s  nopKixs  rxix'KRsrrv 


W   W-" 


M 


(I^^ 


CANNIBALS  ALL! 


OB, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS. 


GEORGE    FITZHUGH, 

OF   PORT    EOYAL,    CAROLINE,    VA. 


"  His  hand  will  be  against  every  man,  and  every  man's  hand  against 
him." — Gen.  xvi.  12. 

"  Physician,  heal  ihyseif." — Luke  iv.  33. 


RICHMOND,    VA. 
A.    MOKRIS,    PUBLISHER 

1857. 


I, 


.<  i, 


•  F 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1857,  by 

ADOLPHUS    MORRIS, 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States 
for  the  Eastern  District  of  Virginia. 


ri 


C.  H.  WYNNE,  PRIKTEE,  RICHMOKD. 


^  CONTENTS. 


PAGE. 

Dedication tu 

Preface ix 

iNTRODrcTiON xiii 

CHAPTER     I. 
The  Universal  Trade 25 

CHAPTER     II. 
Labor,  Skill  and  Capital 33 

CHAPTER     III. 
Subject  Continued — Exploitation  of  Skill 53 

CHAPTER     IV. 
International  Exploitation 75 

CHAPTER    V. 
False  Philosophy  of   the  Age 79 

CHAPTER     VI. 
Free  Trade,  Fashion  and  Centralization 8G 

CHAPTER     VII. 
The  World  is  Too  LHth  Governed 07    '' 

CHAPTER     VIII. 
Liberty  and  Slavery 106 


IV  CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 
CHAPTER     IX  . 

'^Paley  on  Exploitation 124 

C  H  A  1'  T  E  R     X  . 

Oui-  best  'Witnesses  and  Masters  in  the  Art  of  War....     127 

CHAPTER    XI. 

Decay  of  English  Liberty,  and  growth  of  English  Poor 
Laws 157 

CHAPTER    XII.      • 
The  French  Laborers  and  the  French  Revolution 176 

CHAPTER    XIII. 
The  Reformation — The  Right  of  Private  Judgment 194 

C  H APTER    XI V  . 
The  Nomadic  Beggars  and  Pauper  Banditti  of  England,     204 

CHAPTER    XV. 
"Rural  Life  of  England,"  218 

CHAPTER    XVI. 

The  Distressed  Needle-Women  and  Hood's  Song  of  the 
Shirt 223 

CHAPTER     XVII. 

The  Edinburgh  Review  on  Southern  Slavery 236 

CHAPTER    XVIII. 

The  London  Globe  on  West  India  Emancipation 274 

CHAPTER    XIX, 

— Protection,  and  Charity,  to  the  Weak 278 

CHAPTER    XX. 
-^The  Family 281 


CONTENTS.  V 

*  PAOB. 

CHAPTER    XXI. 

Negro  Slavery 204 

CHAPTER    XXII. 
^  The  Strength  of  'Weakness.... 300 

CHAPTER     XXIII. 
Money 303 

CHAPTER    XXIV. 

Gerrit  Smith  on  Land  Reform,  and  William  Loyd  Gar- 
rison on  No-Government 30G 

CHAPTER    XXV. 
In  vrhat  Anti-Slavery  ends 311 

CHAPTER    XXVI. 

Christian    Morality  impracticable  in   Free  Society — but 
the  Natural  Morality  of  Slave  Society 316 

CHAPTERXXVII. 
'Slavery — Its  effects  on  the  Free -320 

CHAPTER    XXVIII. 
Private  Property  destroys  Liberty  and  Equality 323 

CHAPTER    XXIX. 
The  National  Era  an  Excellent  Witness 327 

CHAPTER    XXX  . 

The  Philosophy  of  the  Isms — Shewing  why  they  abound 

at  the  North,  and  are  unknown  at  the  South 332  - 

CHAPTER    XXXI. 
Deficiency  of  Food  in  Free  Society 335 

CHAPTER    XXXII. 
Man  has  Property  in  Man 341  ' 


VI  CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

CHAPTER    XXXIII. 

Tbo  "Coup  do  Grace"  to  Abolition 344 

CHAPTER    XXXIV. 
National  "Wealth,   Individual  AVeallh,  Luxury  and  Econ- 
omy      350 

CHAPTER    XXXV. 
Government  a  thing  of  Force,  not  of  Consent 353 

CHAPTER    XXXVI. 
"Warning  to  the  North 363 

CHAPTER     XXXVII. 
Addendum 373 


DEDICATION. 


to  the  honorable  henry  a.  wise. 

Dear  Sir: 

I  dedicate  this  work  to  you,  because  I  am 
acquainted  with  no  one  who  has  so  zealously,  labori- 
ously and  successfully  endeavored  to  Virginianise  Vir- 
ginia, by  encouraging,  through  State  legislation,  lier 
intellectual  and  physical  growth  and  development ;  no 
one  who  has  seen  so  clearly  the  evils  of  centralization 
from  without,  and  worked  so  earnestly  to  cure  or  avert 
those  evils,  by  building  up  centralization  within. 

Virginia  should  have  her  centres  of  Thought  at  her 
Colleges  and  her  University,  centres  of  Trade  and  Man- 
ufactures at  her  Seaboard  and  Western  towns,  and  cen- 
tres of  Fashion  at  her  Mineral  Springs. 

I  agree  with  you,  too,  that  State  strength  and  State 
independence  are  the  best  guarantees  of  State  rights; 
and  that  policy  the  wisest  which  most  promotes  the 
growth  of  State  strength  and  independence. 


Viii  DEDICATION. 

Weakness  invites  aggression;  strength  commands  re- 
spect; hence,  the  Uuion  is  safest  when  its  separate 
members  are  best  able  to  repel  injury,  or  to  live  inde- 
pendently. 

Your  attachment  to  A^irginia  has  not  lessened  your 
love  for  the  Union.  In  urging  forward  to  completion 
such  works  as  the  Covington  and  Ohio  Iload,  you  are 
trying  to  add  to  the  wealth,  the  glory  and  the  strength 
of  our  own  State,  whilst  you  would  add  equally  to  the 
wealth,  the  strength  and  perpetuity  of  the  Union. 

I  cannot  commit  you  to  all  the  doctrines  of  my  book, 
for  you  will  not  see  it  until  it  is  published. 

With  very  great  respect, 

Your  obedient  servant, 

Geo.  Fitzhugh, 
Port  Royal,  Aug.  22,  1856. 


PREFACE. 


I  have  endeavored,  in  this  work,  to  treat  the  subjects 
of  Liberty  and  Slavery  in  a  more  rigidly  analytical 
manner  than  in  "Sociology  for  the  South;"  and,  at  the 
same  time,  to  furnish  the  reader  with  abundance  of 
facts,  authorities  and  admissions,  whereby  to  test  the 
truth  of  my  views. 

My  chief  aim  has  been  to  shew,  that  Labor  makes 
values,  and  Wit  exploitates  and  accumnlates  them;  and 
hence  to  deduce  the  conclusion  that  the  unrestricted 
exploitation  of  so-called  free  societ}^,  is  more  oppressive 
to  the  laborer  than  domestic  slavery. 

In  making  a  distinct  onslaught  on  the  popular  doc- 
trines of  Modern  Ethics,  I  must  share  the  credit  or 
censure  with  my  corresponding  acquaintance  and  friend, 
Professor  H.  of  Virginia, 

Our  acquaintance  commenced  by  his  congratulating 
me,  by  letter,  on  the  announcement  that  I  was  occupied 


X  PREFACE. 

■with  a  treatise  vindicating  the  institution  of  Slavery  in 
the  abstract,  and  by  his  suggestion,  that  he  foresaw, 
from  what  he  had  read  of  my  conununications  to  the 
papers,  that  I  should  be  compelled  to  make  a  general 
assault  on  the  prevalent  political  and  moral  philosophy. 
This  letter,  and  others  subsequent  to  it,  together  with 
the  reception  of  my  Book  by  the  Southern  Public,  have 
induced  me  in  the  present  work  to  avow  the  full  breadth 
and  scope  of  my  purpose.  I  am  sure  it  will  be  easier 
to  convince  the  world  that  the  customary  theories  of  our 
Modern  Ethical  Philosophy,  whether  utilitarian  or  sen- 
timental, are  so  fallacious  or  so  false  in  their  premises 
and  their  deductions  as  to  deserve  rejection,  than  to 
persuade  it  that  the  social  forms  under  which  it  lives, 
and  attempts  to  justify  and  approve,  are  equally  errone- 
ous, and  should  be  re-placed  by  others  founded  on  a 
broader  philosophical  system  and  more  Christian  prin- 
ciples. 

Yet,  I  believe  that,  under  the  banners  of  Socialism 
and  more  dangerous,  because  more  delusive,  Semi-Social- 
ism, society  is  insensibly,  and  often  unconsciously, 
inarching  to  the  utter  abandonment  of  the  most  essential 
institutions — religion,  liimily  ties,  property,  and  the  re- 
straints of  justice.  The  present  profession  is,  indeed, 
to  stop  at  the  half-way  house  of  Xo-Government  and 
Free  Love;  but  we  are  sure  that  it  cannot  halt  and  en- 


PREFACE.  XI 

camp  in  such  quarters.  Society  will  work  out  erroneous 
doctrines  to  their  logical  consequences,  and  detect  error 
only  by  the  experience  of  mischief.  The  world  will 
only  fall  back  on  domestic  slavery  when  all  other  social 
forms  have  foiled  and  been  exhausted.  That  hour  may 
not  be  for  off. 

Mr.  H.  will  not  see  this  work  before  its  publication, 
and  would  dissent  from  many  of  its  details,  from  the 
unrestricted  latitude  of  its  positions,  and  from  its  want 
of  precise  definition.  The  time  has  not  yet  arrived,  in 
my  opinion,  for  such  precision,  nor  will  it  arrive  until 
the  present  philosophy  is  seen  to  be  untenable,  and  we 
begin  to  look  about  us  for  a  loftier  and  more  enlightened 
substitute. 


INTRODUCTION. 


In  our  little  work,  "Sociology  for  the  South,"  we 
said,  "  We  may  again  appear  in  the  character  of  writer 
before  the  public ;  but  we  shall  not  intrude,  and  would 
prefer  that  others  should  finish  the  work  which  we  have 
begun."  That  little  work  has  met,  every  where,  we 
believe,  at  the  South,  with  a  favorable  reception.  No 
one  has  denied  its  theory  of  Free  Society,  nor  disputed 
the  facts  on  which  that  theory  rests.  Very  many  able 
co-laborers  have  arisen,  and  many  books  and  essays  are 
daily  appearing,  taking  higher  ground  in  defence  of 
Slavery;  justifying  it  as  a  normal  and  natural  institu- 
tion, instead  of  excusing  or  apologizing  for  it,  as  an 
exceptional  one.  It  is  now  treated  as  a  positive  good, 
not  a  necessary  evil.  The  success,  not  the  ability  of 
our  essay,  may  have  had  some  influence  in  eliciting 
this  new  mode  of  defence.  We  have,  for  many  years, 
been  gradually  and  cautiously  testing  public  opinion  at 
the  South,  and  have  ascertained  that  it  is  ready  to  ap- 


XIV  INTRODUCTION. 

prove,  and  nnich  prefers,  the  highest  ground  of  defence. 
We  have  no  peculiar  titness  for  the  work  we  are  engaged 
in,  except  the  confidence  that  we  address  a  public  pre- 
disposed to  approve  our  doctrines,  however  bold  or  novel. 
Heretofore  the  great  difficulty  in  defending  Slavery  has 
arisen  from  the  fear  that  the  public  would  take  offence 
at  assaults  on  its  long-cherished  political  axioms ;  which, 
nevertheless,  stood  in  the  way  of  that  defence.  It  is 
now  evident  that  those  axioms  have  outlived  their  day — 
for  no  one,  either  North  or  South,  has  complained  of 
our  rather  ferocious  assault  on  them — much  less  at- 
tempted to  reply  to  or  refute  our  arguments  and  objec- 
tions. All  men  begin  very  clearly  to  perceive,  that  the 
state  of  revolution  is  politically  and  socially  abnormal 
and  exceptional,  and  that  the  principles  that  would 
justify  it  are  true  in  the  particular,  false  in  the  general. 
"A  recurrence  to  fundamental  principles,"  by  an  op- 
pressed people,  is  treason  if  it  fails;  the  noblest  of 
heroism  if  it  eventuates  in  successful  revolution.  But 
a  ''frequent  recurrence  to  fundamental  principles"  is  at 
war  with  the  continued  existence  of  all  government, 
and  is  a  doctrine  fit  to  be  sported  only  by  the  Isms  of 
the  North  and  the  Red  llepublicans  of  Europe.  With 
them  no  principles  are  considered  established  and  sacred, 
nor  will  ever  be.  When,  in  time  of  revolution,  society 
is  ^partially  disbanded,   disintegrated  and  dissolved,  the 


INTRODUCTION.  XV 

doctrine  of  Human  Equality  may  have  a  hearing,  and 
may  be  useful  in  stimulating  rebellion;  but  it  is  prac- 
tically impossible,  and  directly  conflicts  with  all  gov- 
ernment, all  separate  property,  and  all  social  existence. 
"We  cite  these  two  examples,  as  instances,  to  shew  how 
the  wisest  and  best  of  men  are  sure  to  deduce,  as  gen- 
eral principles,  what  is  only  true  as  to  themselves  and 
their  peculiar  circumstances.  Never  were  people  blessed 
with  such  wise  and  noble  Institutions  as  we ;  for  they 
combine  most  that  was  good  in  those  of  Rome  and 
Clrcece,  of  Judea,  and  of  3IeJia3val  England.  But  the 
mischievous  absurdity  of  our  political  axioms  and  prin- 
ciples quite  equals  the  wisdom  and  conservatism  of  our 
political  practices.  The  ready  appreciation  by  the  pub- 
lie  of  such  doctrines  as  these,  encourages  us  to  persevere 
in  writing.  The  silence  of  the  North  is  far  more  en- 
couraging, however,  than  the  approbation  of  the  South, 
Piqued  and  taunted  for  two  years,  by  many  Southern 
Presses  of  high  standing,  to  deny  the  proposition  that 
Free  Society  in  "Western  Europe  is  a  ftiilure,  and  that  it 
betrays  premonitory  symptoms  of  failui'c,  even  in  Amer- 
ica, the  North  is  silent,  and  thus  tacitly  admits  the 
charge.  Challenged  to  compare  and  weigh  the  advan- 
tages and  disadvantages  of  our  domestic  slavery  with 
their  slavery  of  the  masses  to  capital  and  skill,  it  is 
mute,   and   neither   accepts  nor  declines  our  challenge. 


XVI  INTRODUCTION. 

The  comparative  evils  of  Slave  Society  and  of  Free  So- 
ciety, of  slavery  to  human  Masters  and  of  slavery  to 
Capital,  are  the  issues  which  the  South  now  presents,  and 
which  the  North  avoids.  And  she  avoids  them,  because 
the  Abolitionists,  the  only  assailants  of  Southern  Slavery, 
have,  we  believe,  to  a  man,  asserted  the  entire  failure  of 
their  own  social  system,  proposed  its  subversion,  and  sug- 
gested an  approximating  millenium,  or  some  system  of 
Free  Love,  Communism,  or  Socialism,  as  a  substitute. 

The  alarming  extent  of  this  state  of  public  opinion, 
or,  to  speak  more  accurately,  the  absence  of  any  public 
opinion,  or  common  faith  and  conviction  about  anything, 
is  not  dreamed  of  at  the  South,  nor  fully  and  properly 
realized,  even  at  the  North.  We  cannot  believe  what 
is  so  entirely  different  from  all  our  experience  and  obser- 
vation, and  iJui/  have  become  familiarized  and  inattentive 
to  the  infected  social  atmosphere  they  continually  inhale. 
Besides,  living  in  the  midst  of  the  isms,  their  situation 
is  not  favorable  for  comprehensive  observation  or  calm 
generalization.  More  than  a  year  since,  we  made  a  short 
trip  to  the  North,  and  whilst  there  only  associated  with 
distinguished  Abolitionists.  We  have  corresponded  much 
with  them,  before  and  since,  and  read  many  of  their 
books,  lectures,  essays  and  speeches.  We  have  neither 
seen  nor  heard  any  denial  by  them  of  the  failure  of  their 
own  social  system ;  but,  on  the  contrary,  fouud  that  they 


INTRODUCTION.  -  Xvil 

all  concurred  in  the  necessity  of  radical  social  chan£rcs. 
'Tis  true,  in  conversation,  they  will  say,  "Our  system  of 
society  is  bad,  but  yours  of  the  South  is  worse;  the 
cause  of  social  science  is  advancing,  and  we  are  ready  to 
institute  a  system  better  than  either."  "We  could  give 
many  private  anecdotes,  and  quote  thousands  of  authori- 
ties, to  prove  that  such  is  the  exact  state  of  opinion  with 
the  multitudinous  isms  of  the  North.  The  correctness 
of  our  statement  will  not  be  denied.  If  it  is,  any  one 
may  satisfy  himself  of  its  truth  by  reading  any  Aboli- 
tion or  Infidel  paper  at  the  North  for  a  single  month. 
The  Liberator,  of  Boston,  their  ablest  paper,  gives  con- 
tinually the  fullest  expose  of  their  opinions,  and  of  their 
wholesale  destructiveness  of  purpose. 

The  neglect  of  the  North  to  take  issue  with  us,  or 
with  the  Southern  Press,  in  the  new  positions  which  we 
have  assumed,  our  own  observations  of  the  working  of 
Northern  society,  the  alarming  increase  of  Socialism,  as 
evinced  by  its  control  of  many  Northern  State  Legisla- 
tures, and  its  majority  in  the  lower  house  of  Congress, 
are  all  new  proofs  of  the  truth  of  our  doctrine.  The 
character  of  that  majority  in  Congress  is  displayed  in 
full  relief,  by  the  single  fact,  which  we  saw  stated  in  a 
Northern  Abolition  paper,  that  "  there  are  a  hundred 
Spiritual  Rappers  in  Congress."  A  Northern  member 
of  Congress  made  a  similar  remark  to  us  a  few  days 


xviii  INTRODUCTION. 

since.  'Tis  but  a  copy  of  the  Hiss  Legislature  of  Massa- 
chusetts; or  the  l*raisc-God-Barcbones  Parliament  of 
England.  Further  study,  too,  of  Western  European  So- 
ciety, which  has  been  engaged  in  continual  revolution  for 
twenty  years,  has  satisfied  us  that  Free  Society  every 
where  begets  isms,  and  that  isms  soon  beget  bloody  revo- 
lutions. Until  our  trip  to  the  North,  we  did  not  justly 
appreciate  the  passage  which  we  are  about  to  quote  from 
Mr.  Carlyle's  "  Latter-Day  Pamphlets."  Now  it  seems 
to  us  as  if  Boston,  New  Haven,  or  Western  New  York, 
had  set  for  the  picture : 

"  To  rectify  the  relation  that  exists  between  two  men, 
is  there  no  method,  then,  but  that  of  ending  it  ?  The 
old  relation  has  become  unsuitable,  ob.<elete,  perhaps  un- 
just; and  the  remedy  is,  abolish  it;  let  there  henceforth 
be  no  relation  at  all.  From  the  'sacrament  of  marriage' 
downwards,  human  beings  used  to  be  manifoldly  related 
one  to  another,  and  each  to  all ;  and  there  was  no  relation 
among  human  beings,  just  or  unjust,  that  had  not  its 
grievances  and  its  difficulties,  its  necessities  on  both  sides 
to  bear  and  forbear.  But  henceforth,  be  it  known,  we 
have  changed  all  that  by  favor  of  Heaven;  the  'voluntary 
principle'  has  come  up,  which  will  itself  do  the  business 
for  us ;  and  now  let  a  new  sacrament,  that  of  Divorce, 
which  we  call  emancipation,  and  spout  of  on  our  plat- 
forms, be  universally  the  order  of  the  day  !  Have  men 
considered  whither  all  this  is  tending,  and  what  it  cer- 
tainly enough  betokens  ?     Cut  every  human  relation  that 


INTRODUCTION.  XIX 

has  any  where  grown  uneasy  sheer  asunder;  reduce 
whatsoever  was  compulsory  to  voluntary,  whatsoever  was 
permanent  among  us  to  the  condition  of  the  nomadic ; 
in  other  words,  LOOSEN  by  assiduous  webges,  in  e.cry 
joint,  the  wliole  fabric^  of  social  existence,  stone  from 
stone,  till  at  last,  all  lie  now  quite  loose  enough,  it  can, 
as  we  already  see  in  most  countries,  be  overset  by  sudden 
outburst  of  revolutionary  rage ;  and  lying  as  mere  moun- 
tains of  anarchic  rubbish,  solicit  you  to  sing  Fraternity, 
&c.  over  it,  and  rejoice  in  the  now  remarkable  era  of  hu- 
man progress  we  have  arrived  at." 

Now  we  plant  ourselves  on  this  passage  from  Carlyle. 
We  say  that,  as  far  as  it  goes,  'tis  a  faithful  picture  of 
the  isms  of  the  North.  Eut  the  restraints  of  Law  and 
Public  Opinion  are  less  at  the  North  than  in  Europe. 
The  isms  on  each  side  the  Atlantic  are  equally  busy  with 
"assiduous  wedges,"  in  "loosening  in  every  joint  the 
whole  fabric  of  social  existence;"  but  whilst  they  dare 
invoke  Anarchy  in  Europe,  they  dare  not  inaugurate 
New  York  Free  Love,  and  Oneida  Incest,  and  Mormon 
Polygamy.  The  moral,  religious,  and  social  heresies  of 
the  North,  are  more  monstrous  than  those  of  Europe. 
The  pupil  has  surpassed  the  master,  unaided  by  the  stim- 
ulants of  poverty,  hunger  and  nakedness,  which  urge 
the  master  forward. 

Society  need  not  fail  in  the  North-east  until  the  whole 
West  is  settled;  and  a  refluent  population,  or  excess  of 


XS  INTRODJCTION. 

immigration,  overstocks  permanently  the  labor  market  on 
the  Atlantic  board.  Till  then,  the  despotism  of  skill 
and  capital,  in  forcing  emigration  to  the  "West,  makes 
proprietors  of  those  emigrants,  benefits  them,  peoples  the 
West,  and  by  their  return  trade,  enriches  the  East.  The 
social  forms  of  the  North  and  the  South  are,  for  the 
present,  equally  promotive  of  growth  and  prosperity  at 
home,  and  equally  beneficial  to  mankind  at  large,  by 
affording  asylums  to  the  oppressed,  and  by  furnishing 
food  and  clothing  to  all.  Xorthern  society  is  a  partial 
failure,  but  only  because  it  generates  isms  ■which  threaten 
it  with  overthrow  and  impede  its  progress. 

Despite  of  appearing  vain  and  egotistical,  we  cannot 
refrain  from  mentioning  another  circumstance  that  en- 
courages us  to  write.  At  the  very  time  when  we  were 
writing  our  pamphlet  entitled  ''  Slavery  Justified,"  in 
which  we  took  ground  that  Free  Society  had  failed,  Mr. 
Carlyle  began  to  write  his  "  Latttr  Day  Pamphlets," 
whose  very  title  is  the  assertion  of  the  failure  of  Free 
Society.  The  proof  derived  from  this  coincidence  be- 
comes the  stronger,  when  it  is  perceived  that  an  ordinary 
man  on  this  side  the  Atlantic  discovered  and  was  expos- 
ing the  same  social  phenomena  that  an  extraordinary  one 
had  discovered  and  was  exposing  on  the  other.  The 
very  titles  of  our  works  are  synonymous — for  the  "Latter 
Day"  is  the  "Failure  of  Society." 


INTRODUCTION.  XXI 

Mr.  Carlyle,  and  Miss  Fanny  Wright  (in  her  England 
the  Civilizer)  vindicate  Slavery  by  shewing  that  each  of 
its  apparent  relaxations  in  England  has  injured  the  la- 
boring class.  They  were  fully  and  ably  represented  in 
Parliament  by  their  ancient  masters,  the  Barons.  Since 
the  Throne,  and  the  Church,  and  the  Nobility,  have  been 
stripped  of  their  power,  and  a  House  of  Commons,  rep- 
resenting lands  and  money,  rules  despotically,  the  masses 
have  become  outlawed.  They  labor  under  all  the  disad- 
vantages of  slavery,  and  have  none  of  the  rights  of 
slaves.  This  is  the  true  history  of  the  English  Consti- 
tution, and  one  which  we  intend,  in  the  sequel,  more 
fully  to  expound.  This  presents  another  reason  why  we 
again  appear  before  the  public.  Blackstone,  which  is 
read  by  most  American  gentlemen,  teaches  a  doctrine  the 
exact  reverse  of  this,  and  that  doctrine  we  shall  try  to 
refute. 

Returning  from  the  North,  we  procured  in  New  York 
a  copy  of  Aristotle's  "Politics  and  Economics."  To  our 
surprise,  we  found  that  our  theory  of  the  origin  of  soci- 
ety was  identical  with  his,  and  that  we  had  employed  not 
only  the  same  illustrations,  but  the  very  same  words. 
We  saw  at  once  that  the  true  vindication  of  slavery  must 
be  founded  on  his  theory  of  man's  social  nature,  as  op- 
posed to  Locke's  theory  of  the  Social  Contract,  on  which 


XXU  INTRODUCTION. 

latter  Free  Society  rests  for  support.  'Tis  true  we  had 
broached  this  doctrine:  but  with  the  world  at  larjje 
our  authority  was  merely  repulsive,  whilst  the  same  doc- 
trine, coming  from  Aristotle,  had,  besides  his  name,  two 
thousand  years  of  human  approval  and  concurrence  in  its 
favor;  for,  without  that  concurrence  and  approval,  his 
book  would  have  long  since  perished. 

In  addition  to  all  this,  we  tliink  we  have  discovered 
that  Moses  has  anticipated  the  Socialists,  and  that  in  pro- 
hibiting "usury  of  money,  and  of  victuals,  and  of  all 
things  that  are  lent  on  usury,"  and  in  denouncing  "in- 
crease" he  was  far  wiser  than  Aristotle,  and  saw  that 
other  capital  or  property  did  not  "breed"  any  more  than 
money,  and  that  its  profits  were  unjust  exactions  levied 
from  the  laboring  man.  The  Socialists  proclaim  this  as 
a  discovery  of  their  own.  We  think  Moses  discovered 
and  proclaimed  it  more  than  three  thousand  years  ago — 
and  that  it  is  the  only  true  theory  of  capital  and  labor, 
the  only  adecjuate  theoretical  defence  of  Slavery — for  it 
proves  that  the  profits  which  capital  exacts  from  labor 
makes  free  laborers  slaves,  without  the  rights,  privileges 
or  advantages  of  domestic  slaves,  and  capitalists  their 
masters,  with  all  the  advantages,  and  none  of  the  bur- 
dens and  obligations  of  the  ordinary  owners  of  slaves. 

The  scientific  title  of  this  work  would  be  best  ex- 
pressed by  the  conventional  French  term  ^^Exploitation." 


INTRODUCTION.  SSIU 

"We  endeavor  to  translate  by  the  double  periphrases  of 
"Cannibals  All;  or.  Slaves  without  Masters." 

We  have  been  imprudent  enough  to  write  our  Intro- 
duction first,  and  may  fail  to  satisfy  the  expectations 
which  we  excite.  Our  excess  of  candor  must,  in  that 
event,  in  part  supply  our  deficiency  of  ability. 


CANNIBALS   ALL! 


CIIArTER    I. 

THE    UNIVERSAL    TRADE. 

We  are,  all,  North  and  Soutli,  engaged  in  tlio 
Wliitc  Slave  Trade,  and  he  who  succeeds  best,  is 
esteemed  most  respectable.  It  is  far  more  cruel 
than  the  Black  Slave  Trade,  because  it  exacts  more 
of  its  slaves,  and  neither  protects  nor  governs  them. 
AVe  boast,  that  it  exacts  more,  when  wo  say,  "  that 
the  profits  made  from  emplo3Mng  free  labor  are 
greater  than  tho^e  from  slave  labor."  I'he  })rofits, 
made  from  free  labor,  are  the  amount  of  the  pro- 
ducts of  such  labor,  which  the  employer,  by  means 
of  the  connnand  which  ca]:)ital  or  skill  gives  him, 
takes  away,  exacts  or  "exploilates"  from  the  free 
laborer.  The  profits  of  slave  labor  are  that  portion 
of  the  products  of  such  labor  which  the  power  of 
the  master  enables  him  to  appropriate.  These  pro- 
fits are  less,  because  the  master  allows  the  slave  to 
retain  a  larger  share  of  the  results  of  his  own  labor, 
than  do  the  employers  of  free  labor.     But  wo  not 


26  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

only  boast  that  the  White  Slave  Trade  is  more  ex- 
acting and  fraudulent  (in  fact,  though  not  in  inten- 
tion,) than  Black  Slavery ;  but  we  also  boast,  that  it 
is  more  cruel,  in  leaving  the  laborer  to  take  care  of 
himself  and  family  out  of  the  pittance  Avhich  skill 
or  capital  have  allowed  him  to  retain.  AVhen  the 
day's  labor  is  ended,  ho  is  free,  but  is  overburdened 
with  the  cares  of  family  and  household,  which  make 
his  freedom  an  empty  and  delusive  mockery.  But 
his  employer  is  really  free,  and  may  enjoy  the  pro- 
fits made  by  others'  labor,  Avithout  a  care,  or  a 
trouble,  as  to  their  well-being.  The  negro  slave 
is  free,  too,  when  the  labors  of  the  day  are  over, 
and  free  in  mind  as  well  as  body ;  for  the  master 
provides  food,  raiment,  house,  fuel,  and  everything 
else  necessary  to  the  physical  well-being  of  himself 
and  family.  The  master's  labors  commence  just 
when  the  slave's  end.  No  wonder  men  should  pre- 
fer white  slavery  to  capital,  to  negro  slavery,  since 
it  is  more  profitable,  and  is  free  from  all  the  cares 
and  labors  of  black  slave-holding. 

Now,  reader,  if  you  Avish  to  know  yourself — to 
"descant  on  your  own  deformity"' — read  on.  But 
if  you  would  cherish  self-conceit,  self-esteem,  or 
self-appreciation,  throw  down  our  book  ;  for  we 
will  dispel  illusions  which  have  promoted  your  hap- 
piness, and  shew  you  that  what  you  have  considered 
and  practiced  as  virtue,  is  little  better  than  moral 
Cannibalism.     But  you  will  find  yourself  in  numcr- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         27 

ous  and  respectable  company;  for  all  good  and 
respectable  people  are  "Cannibals  all,"  "wHo  do  not 
labor,  or  wlio  are  successfully  trying  to  live  without 
labor,  on  tlie  unrequited  labor  of  other  people : — 
Whilst  low,  bad,  and  disreputable  people,  are  those 
who  labor  to  support  themselves,  and  to  support 
said  respectable  people  besides.  Throwing  the  ne- 
gro slaves  out  of  the  account,  and  society  is  divided 
in  Christendom  into  four  classes :  The  rich,  or  inde- 
pendent respectable  people,  who  live  well  and  labor 
not  at  all;  the  professional  and  skillful  respectable 
people,  who  do  a  little  light  work,  for  enormous 
wages ;  the  poor  hard-working  people,  who  support 
every  body,  and  starve  themselves ;  and  the  poor 
thieves,  swindlers  and  sturdy  beggars,  who  live  like 
gentlemen,  without  labor,  on  the  labor  of  other 
people.  The  gentlemen  exploitate,  which  being 
done  on  a  large  scale,  and  requiring  a  great  many 
victims,  is  highly  respectable — whilst  the  rogues 
and  beggars  take  so  little  from  others,  that  they 
fare  little  better  than  those  who  labor. 

But,  reader,  we  do  not  wish  to  fire  into  the  flock. 
"Thou  art  the  man!"  You  are  a  Cannibal!  and 
if  a  successful  one,  pride  yourself  on  the  number 
of  your  victims,  quite  as  much  as  any  Feejee  chief- 
tain, who  breakfasts,  dines  and  sups  on  human 
flesh. — And  your  conscience  smites  you,  if  you 
have  failed  to  succeed,  quite  as  much  as  his,  when 
he  returns  from  an  unsuccessful  foray. 


28  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

Probably,  you  aro  a  lawyer,  or  a  merchant,  or  a 
doctor,  who  have  made  by  your  business  fifty  thou- 
sand dollars,  and  retired  to  live  on  your  capital. 
But,  mark!  not  to  spend  your  capital.  That  -would 
be  vulgar,  disreputable,  criminal.  That  would  be, 
to  live  by  your  own  labor ;  for  your  capital  is  your 
amassed  labor.  That  would  be,  to  do  as  common 
\yorking  men  do ;  for  they  take  tlie  pittance  which 
their  employers  leave  them,  to  live  on.  They  live 
by  labor ;  for  they  exchange  the  results  of  their 
own  labor  for  the  products  of  other  people's  labor. 
It  is,  no  doubt,  an  honest,  vulgar  way  of  living ; 
but  not  at  all  a  respectable  way.  The  respectable 
way  of  living  is,  to  make  other  people  work  for 
you,  and  to  pay  them  nothing  for  so  doing — and  to 
have  no  concern  about  them  after  their  work  is 
done.  Hence,  white  slave-holding  is  much  more 
respectable  tlian  negro  slavery — for  the  master 
works  nearly  as  hard  for  the  negro,  as  he  for  the 
master.  But  you,  my  virtuous,  respectable  reader, 
exact  three  thousand  dollars  per  annum  from  white 
labor,  (for  your  income  is  the  product  of  white  la- 
bor,) and  make  not  one  cent  of  return  in  any  form. 
You  retain  your  capital,  and  never  labor,  and  yet 
live  in  luxury  on  the  labor  of  others.  Capital 
commands  labor,  as  the  master  does  the  slave. 
Neither  pays  for  labor;  but  the  master  permits  the 
slave  to  retain  a  larger  allowance  from  the  proceeds 
of  his  own  labor,  and  hence  "free  labor  is  cheaper 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  29 

than  slave  labor."  You,  "U'ith  the  command  over 
labor  which  jour  capital  gives  you,  are  a  slave 
owner — a  master,  without  the  obligations  of  a  mas- 
ter. They  who  work  for  you,  who  create  your 
income,  are  slaves,  without  the  rights  of  jlaves. 
Slaves  without  a  master !  Whilst  you  were  engaged 
in  amassing  ycur  capital,  in  seeking  to  become  in- 
dependent, you  were  in  the  White  Slave  Trade. 
To  become  independent,  is  to  be  able  to  make  other 
people  support  you,  without  being  obliged  to  labor 
for  them.  Now,  what  man  in  society  is  not  seeking 
to  attain  this  situation  ?  He  who  attains  it,  is  a 
slave  owner,  in  the  worst  sense.  He  who  is  in  pur- 
suit of  it,  is  engaged  in  the  slave  trade.  You, 
reader,  belong  to  the  one  or  other  class.  The  men 
without  property,  in  free  society,  are  theoretically 
in  a  worse  condition  than  slaves.  Practically,  their 
condition  corresponds  with  this  theory,  as  history 
and  statistics  every  where  demonstrate.  The  capi- 
talists, in  free  society,  live  in  ten  times  the  luxury 
and  show  that  Southern  masters  do,  because  the 
slaves  to  capital  work  harder  and  cost  less,  than 
negro  slaves. 

The  negro  slaves  of  the  South  are  the  happiest, 
and,  in  some  sense,  the  freest  people  in  the  world. 
The  children  and  the  aged  and  infirm  work  not  at 
all,  and  yet  have  all  the  comforts  and  necessaries  of 
life  provided  for  them.  They  enjoy  liberty,  be- 
cause they  are  oppressed  neither  by  care  nor  labor. 


so  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OK, 

The  "n'omcn  do  little  hard  work,  and  are  protected 
from  the  despotism  of  their  husbands  by  their  mas- 
ters. The  negro  men  and  stout  boys  "work,  on  the 
average,  in  good  weather,  not  more  than  nine  hours 
a  day.  The  balance  of  their  time  is  spent  in  per- 
fect abandon.  Besides,  they  have  their  Sabbaths 
and  holidays.  AVhite  men,  with  so  much  of  license 
and  liberty,  would  die  of  ennui ;  but  negroes  luxu- 
riate in  corporeal  and  mental  repose.  AVith  their 
faces  upturned  to  the  sun,  they  can  sleep  at  any 
hour ;  and  quiet  sleep  is  the  greatest  of  human  en- 
joyments. "Blessed  be  the  man  who  invented 
sleep."  'Tis  happiness  in  itself — and  results  from 
contentment  with  the  present,  and  confident  assur- 
ance of  the  future.  Wc  do  not  know  whether  free 
laborers  ever  sleep.  They  are  fools  to  do  so ;  for, 
whilst  they  sleep,  the  Avily  and  watchful  capitalist 
is  devising  means  to  ensnare  and  exploitate  them. 
The  free  laborer  must  work  or  starve.  He  is  more 
of  a  slave  than  the  negro,  because  he  works  longer 
and  harder  for  less  allowance  than  the  slave,  and 
has  no  holiday,  because  the  cares  of  life  with  him 
begin  when  its  labors  end.  He  has  no  liberty,  and 
not  a  single  right.  We  know,  'tis  often  said,  air 
and  water,  are  common  property,  which  all  have 
equal  right  to  participate  and  enjoy ;  but  this  is 
utterly  false.  The  appropriation  of  the  lands  car- 
ries Avith  it  the  appropriation  of  all  on  or  above  the 
lands,  usque  ad  ccelum,   aut  ad  inferos.     A  man 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  31 

cannot  breathe  the  air,  -without  a  place  to  breathe 
it  from,  and  all  places  are  appropriated.  All  water 
is  private  property  "to  the  middle  of  the  stream," 
except  the  ocean,  and  that  is  not  fit  to  drink. 

Free  laborers  have  not  a  thousandth  part  of  the 
rights  and  liberties  of  negro  slaves.  Indeed,  they 
have  not  a  single  right  or  a  single  liberty,  unless  it 
be  the  right  or  liberty  to  die.  But  the  reader  may 
think  that  he  and  other  capitalists  and  employers 
are  freer  than  negro  slaves.  Your  capital  would 
soon  vanish,  if  you  dared  indulge  in  the  liberty  and 
abandon  of  negroes.  You  hold  your  wealth  and 
position  by  the  tenure  of  constant  watchfulness, 
care  and  circumspection.  You  never  labor;  but 
you  are  never  free. 

Where  a  few  own  the  soil,  they  have  unlimited 
power  over  the  balance  of  society,  until  domestic 
slavery  comes  in,  to  compel  them  to  permit  this 
balance  of  society  to  draw  a  sufficient  and  comfort- 
able living  from  "terra  mater."  Free  society,  as- 
serts the  right  of  a  few  to  the  earth — slavery,  main- 
tains that  it  belongs,  in  different  degrees,  to  all. 

But,  reader,  well  may  you  follow  the  slave  trade. 
It  is  the  only  trade  worth  following,  and  slaves  the 
only  property  worth  owning.  All  other  is  worth- 
less, a  mere  caput  mortuum,  except  in  so  far  as  it 
vests  the  owner  with  the  power  to  command  the 
labors  of  others — to  enslave  them.  Give  you  a 
palace,    ten   thousand    acres    of    land,    sumptuous 


32  CANNIBALS  ALL;    Oil, 

clothes,  equipage  and  every  other  hixury ;  and  with 
3'our  artificial  wants,  you  are  poorer  than  Robinson 
Crusoe,  or  the  lowest  working  man,  if  you  have  no 
slaves  to  capital,  or  domestic  slaves.  Your  capital 
will  not  bring  you  an  income  of  a  cent,  nor  supply 
one  of  your  wants,  without  labor.  Labor  is  indis- 
pensable to  give  value  to  property,  and  if  you 
owned  every  thing  else,  and  did  not  own  labor,  you 
would  be  poor.  But  fifty  thousand  dollars  means, 
and  is,  fifty  thousand  dollars  worth  of  slaves.  You 
can  command,  without  touching  on  that  capital, 
three  thousand  dollars'  worth  of  labor  per  annum. 
You  could  do  no  more  were  you  to  buy  slaves  with 
it,  and  then  you  would  be  cumbered  with  the  cares 
of  governing  and  providing  for  them.  You  are  a 
slaveholder  now,  to  the  amount  of  fifty  thousand 
dollars,  Avith  all  the  advantages,  and  none  of  the 
cares  and  responsibilities  of  a  master. 

"Property  in  man"  is  what  all  are  struggling  to 
obtain.  Why  should  they  not  be  obliged  to  take 
care  of  man,  their  property,  as  they  do  of  their 
horses  and  their  hounds,  their  cattle  and  their 
sheep.  Now,  under  the  delusive  name  of  liber- 
ty? you  work  him,  "from  morn  to  dewy  eve" — 
from  infancy  to  old  age — then  turn  him  out  to 
starve.  Y'ou  treat  your  horses  and  hounds  better. 
Capital  is  a  cruel  master.  The  free  slave  trade, 
the  commonest,  yet  the  cruellest  of  trades. 


SLAVES  AVITHOUT   MASTERS.  33 


CHAPTER   II. 

LABOR,  SKILL  AND  CAPITAL. 

Nothing  written  on  the  subject  of  slavery  from 
the  time  of  Aristotle,  is  worth  reading,  until  the 
days  of  the  modern  Socialists.  Nobody,  treating  of 
it,  thought  it  worth  while  to  enquire  from  history  and 
statistics,  whether  the  physical  and  moral  condition 
of  emancipated  serfs  or  slaves  had  been  improved  or 
rendered  worse  by  emancipation.  None  would  con- 
descend to  compare  the  evils  of  domestic  slavery 
with  the  evils  of  lil>erty  without  property.  It  en- 
tered no  one's  head  to  conceive  a  doubt  as  to  the 
actual  freedom  of  the  emancipated.  The  relations 
of  capital  and  labor,  of  the  property-holders  to  the 
non-property-holders,  were  things  about  which  no 
one  had  thought  or  written.  It  never  occurred  to 
either  the  enemies  or  the  apologists  for  slavery, 
that  if  no  one  would  employ  the  free  laborer,  his 
condition  was  infinitely  worse  than  that  of  actual 
slavery — nor  did  it  occur  to  them,  that  if  his  wages 
were  less  than  the  allowance  of  the  slave,  he  was 
less  free  after  emancipation  than  before.  St.  Si- 
mon, Fourier,  Owen,  Fanny  Wright,  and  a  few  ■ 
others,  who  discovered  and  proclaimed  that  prop- 


34  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

erty  was  not  only  a  bad  master,  but  an  intolerable 
one,  were  treated  as  wicked  visionaries.  After  the 
French  and  other  revolutions  in  Western  Europe  in 
1830,  all  men  suddenly  discovered  that  the  social 
relations  of  men  were  false,  and  that  social,  not  po- 
litical, revolutions  were  needed.  Since  that  period, 
almost  the  whole  literature  of  free  society  is  but  a 
voice  proclaiming  its  absolute  and  total  failure. 
Hence  the  works  of  the  socialists  contain  the  true 
defence  of  slavery. 

Most  of  the  active  intellect  of  Christendom  has 
for  the  last  twenty  years  been  engaged  in  analyzing, 
detecting  and  exposing  the  existing  relations  of  la- 
bor, skill  and  capital,  and  in  vain  efforts  to  rectify 
those  relations.  The  philosophers  of  Europe,  who 
have  been  thus  engaged,  have  excelled  all  the  moral 
philosophers  that  preceded  them,  in  the  former  part 
of  their  pursuit,  but  suggested  nothing  but  puerile 
absurdities,  in  the  latter.  Their  destructive  philo- 
sophy is  profound,  demonstrative,  and  unanswera- 
ble— their  constructive  theories,  wild,  visionary  and 
chimerical  on  paper,  and  failures  in  practice.  Each 
one  of  them  proves  clearly  enough,  that  the  present 
edifice  of  European  society  is  out  of  all  rule  and 
proportion,  and  must  soon  tumble  to  pieces — but  no 
two  agree  as  to  how  it  is  to  be  re-built.  "We  must 
(say  they  all)  have  a  new  world,  if  we  are  to  have 
any  Avorld  at  all  I"  and  each  has  a  little  model  Uto- 
pia or  Phalanstery,  for  this  new  and  better  world. 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  85 

•which,  having  already  failed  on  a  small  experimental 
scale,  the  inventor  assures  us,  is,  therefore,  the  very 
thing  to  succeed  on  a  large  one.  We  allude  to  the 
socialists  and  communists,  who  have  more  or  less 
tinged  all  modern  literature  with  their  doctrines. 
In  analyzing  society ;  in  detecting,  exposing,  and 
generalizing  its  operations  and  its  various  pheno- 
mena, they  are  but  grammarians  or  anatomists,  con- 
fining philosophy  to  its  proper  sphere,  and  em- 
ploying it  for  useful  purposes.  When  they  attempt 
to  go  further — and  having  found  the  present  social 
system  to  be  fatally  diseased,  propose  to  originate 
and  build  up  another  in  its  stead — they  are  as  pre- 
sumptuous as  the  anatomist,  who  should  attempt  to 
create  a  man.  Social  bodies,  like  human  bodies, 
are  the  works  of  God,  which  man  may  dissect, 
and  sometimes  heal,  but  which  he  cannot  create. 
Society  was  not  always  thus  diseased,  or  socialism 
would  have  been  as  common  in  the  past  as  it  is 
now.  We  think  these  presumptuous  philosophers 
had  best  compare  it  in  its  healthy  state  with  what  it 
is  now,  and  supply  deficiencies  or  lop  off  excrescen- 
cies,  as  the  comparison  may  suggest.  But  our  pre- 
sent business  is  to  call  attention  to  some  valuable 
discoveries  in  the  terra  firma  of  social  science, 
which  these  socialists  have  made  in  their  vain  voy- 
ages in  search  of  an  ever  receding  and  illusory 
Utopia.  Like  the  alchymists,  although  they  have 
signally  failed  in  the  objects  of  their  pursuits,  they 


36  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

have  incidentally  liit  upon  truths,  unregarded  and 
unprized  by  themselves,  which  will  be  valuable  in 
the  hands  of  more  practical  and  less  sanguine  men. 
It  is  remarkable,  that  the  political  economists,  •who 
generally  assume  labor  to  be  the  most  just  and  cor- 
rect measure  of  value,  should  not  have  discovered 
that  the  profits  of  capital  represent  no  labor  at  all. 
To  be  consistent,  the  political  economists  should  de- 
nounce as  unjust  all  interests,  rents,  dividends  and 
other  profits  of  capital.  We  mean  by  rents,  that 
portion  of  the  rent  which  is  strictly  income.  The 
amount  annually  required  for  repairs  and  ultimately 
to  rebuild  the  house,  is  not  profit.  Four  per  cent, 
will  do  this.  A  rent  of  ten  per  cent,  is  in  such  case 
a  profit  of  six  per  cent.  The  four  per  cent,  is  but 
a  return  to  the  builder  of  his  labor  and  capital 
spent  in  building.  "The  use  of  a  thing,  is  only 
a  fair  subject  of  change,  in  so  far  as  the  article 
used  is  consumed  in  the  use ;  for  such  consumption 
is  the  consumption  of  the  labor  or  capital  of  the 
owner,  and  is  but  the  exchange  of  equivalent 
amounts  of  labor." 

These  socialists,  having  discovered  that  skill  and 
capital,  by  means  of  free  competition,  exercise  an 
undue  mastery  over  labor,  propose  to  do  away 
with  skill,  capital,  and  free  competition,  altogether. 
They  would  heal  the  diseases  of  society  by  de- 
stroying its  most  vital  functions.  Having  laid 
down   the   broad   proposition,   that  equal  amounts 


SLAVES  -^YITIIOUT    MASTERS.  37 

of  labor,  or  their  results,  should  be  exchanged  for 
each  other,  they  get  at  the  conclusion  that  as  the 
profits  of  capital  are  not  the  results  of  labor,  the 
capitalist  shall  be  denied  all  interest  or  rents,  or 
other  profits  on  his  capital,  and  be  compelled  in  all 
cases  to  exchange  a  part  of  the  capital  itself,  for 
labor,  or  its  results.  This  would  prevent  accumula- 
tion, or  at  least  limit  it  to  the  procurement  of  the 
coarsest  necessaries  of  life.  They  say,  "  the  law- 
yer and  the  artist  do  not  work  so  hard  and  continu- 
ously as  the  ploughman,  and  should  receive  less 
wages  than  he — a  bushel  of  wheat  represents  as 
much  labor  as  a  speech  or  portrait,  and  should  be 
exchanged  for  the  one  or  the  other."  Such  a  sys- 
tem of  trade  and  exchange  would  equalize  condi- 
tions, but  would  banish  civilization.  Yet  do  these 
men  show,  that,  by  means  of  the  taxation  and  op- 
pression, which  capital  and  skill  exercise  over  labor, 
the  rich,  the  professional,  the  trading  and  skillful 
part  of  society,  have  become  the  masters  of  the 
laboring  masses  :,  whose  condition,  already  intolera- 
ble, is  daily  becoming  worse.  They  point  out  dis- 
tinctly the  character  of  the  disease  under  which 
the  patient  is  laboring,  but  see  no  way  of  curing 
the  disease  except  by  killing  the  patient. 

In  the  preceding  chapter,  we  illustrated  their 
theory  of  capital  by  a  single  example.  We  might 
give  hundreds  of  illustrations,  and  yet  the  subject 
is  so  difiicult  that  few  readers  will  take  the  trouble 


38  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

to  understand  it.  Let  us  take  two  well  known  his- 
torical instances  :  England  became  possessed  of  two 
fine  islands,  Ireland  and  Jamaica.  Englishmen 
took  away,  or  defrauded,  from  the  Irish,  their  lands; 
but  professed  to  leave  the  people  free.  The  people, 
however,  must  have  the  use  of  land,  or  starve.  The 
English  charged  them,  in  rent,  so  much,  that  their 
allowance,  after  deducting  that  rent,  was  not  half 
that  of  Jamaica  slaves.  They  were  compelled  to 
labor  for  their  landlords,  by  the  fear  of  hunger  and 
death — forces  stronger  than  the  overseer's  lash. 
They  worked  more,  and  did  not  get  half  so  much 
pay  or  allowance  as  the  Jamaica  negroes.  All  the 
reports  to  the  French  and  British  Parliaments  show 
that  the  physical  wants  of  the  West  India  slaves 
"were  well  supplied.  The  Irish  became  the  subjects 
of  capital — slaves,  with  no  masters  obliged  by  law, 
self-interest  or  domestic  affections,  to  provide  for 
them.  The  freest  people  in  the  world,  in  the  loose 
and  common  sense  of  words,  their  condition,  moral, 
physical  and  religious,  was  far  worse  than  that  of 
civilized  slaves  ever  has  been  or  ever  can  be — for  at 
length,  after  centuries  of  slow  starvation,  three 
hundred  thousand  perished  in  a  single  season,  for 
want  of  food.  Englishmen  took  the  lands  of  Ja- 
maica also,  but  introduced  negro  slaves,  whom  they 
were  compelled  to  support  at  all  seasons,  and  at 
any  cost.  The  negroes  were  comfortable,  until  phi- 
lanthropy taxed  the  poor  of  England  and  Ireland 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  39 

a  hundred  millions  to  free  them.  Now,  they  enjoy 
Irish  liberty,  whilst  the  English  hold  all  the  good 
lands.  They  are  destitute  and  savage,  and  in  all 
respects  worse  off  than  Avhen  in  slavery. 

Public  opinion  unites  with  self-interest,  domestic 
affection  and  municipal  law  to  protect  the  slave. 
The  man  who  maltreats  the  weak  and  dependant, 
who  abuses  his  authority  over  wife,  children  or  slaves, 
is  universally  detested.  That  same  public  opinion, 
which  shields  and  protects  the  slave,  encourages  the 
oppression  of  free  laborers — for  it  is  considered 
more  honorable  and  praiseworthy  to  obtain  large 
fees  than  small  ones,  to  make  good  bargains  than 
bad  ones,  (and  all  fees  and  profits  come  ultimately 
from  common  laborers) — to  live  without  work,  by 
the  exactions  of  accumulated  capital,  than  to  labor 
at  the  plough  or  the  spade,  for  one's  living.  It  is 
the  interest  of  the  capitalist  and  the  skillful  to 
allow  free  laborers  the  least  possible  portion  of  the 
fruits  of  their  own  labor ;  for  all  capital  is  created 
by  labor,  and  the  smaller  the  allowance  of  the  free 
laborer,  the  greater  the  gains  of  his  employer.  To 
treat  free  laborers  badly  and  unfairly,  is  universally 
inculcated  as  a  moral  duty,  and  the  selfishness  of 
man's  nature  prompts  him  to  the  most  rigorous  per- 
formance of  this  cannibalish  duty.  We  appeal  to 
political  economy;  the  ethical,  social,  political  and 
economic  philosophy  of  free  society,  to  prove  the 
truth  of  our  doctrines.     As  an   ethical  and  social 


40  CANNIBALS   ALL;   OR, 

guide,  that  philosophy  teaches,  that  social,  indivi- 
dual and  national  competition,  is  a  moral  duty,  and 
we  have  attempted  to  prove  that  all  competition  is 
but  the  eftbrt  to  enslave  others,  without  being  en- 
cumbered with  their  support.  As  a  political  guide, 
it  would  simply  have  government  'keep  the  peace;' 
or,  to  define  its  doctrine  more  exactly,  it  teaches 
"  that  it  is  the  whole  duty  of  government  to  hold 
the  weak  whilst  the  strong  rob  them" — for  it  pun- 
ishes crimes  accompanied  with  force,  which  none 
but  the  weak-minded  commit ;  but  encourages  the 
war  of  the  wits,  in  which  the  strong  and  astute 
are  sure  to  succeed,  in  stripping  the  weak  and 
ignorant. 

It  is  time,  high  time,  that  political  economy  was 
banished  from  our  schools.  ]>ut  wliat  would  this 
avail  in  free  society,  where  men's  antagonistic  rela- 
tions suggest  to  each  one,  without  a  teacher,  that 
"he  can  only  be  just  to  himself,  by  doing  wrong  to 
others."  Aristotle,  and  most  other  ancient  phi- 
losophers and  statesmen,  held  the  doctrine,  "  that 
as  money  would  not  breed,  interest  should  not  be 
allowed."  Moses,  no  doubt,  saw  as  the  modern  so- 
cialists do,  that  all  other  capital  stood  on  the  same 
grounds  with  money.  None  of  it  is  self-creative, 
or  Avill  "breed."  The  language  employed  about 
"  usury"  and  "increase"  in  25th  Leviticus,  and  23d 
Deuteronomy,  is  quite  broad  enough  to  embrace  and 
prohibit  ail   profits  of    capital.      Such   interest  or 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         41 

"increase,"  oi-  profits,  might  be  charged  to  the 
Heathen,  but  not  to  the  Jews.  The  whole  arrange- 
ments of  Moses  were  obviously  intended  to  prevent 
competition  in  the  dealings  of  the  Jews  with  one 
another,  and  to  beget  permanent  equality  of  condi- 
tion and  fraternal  feelings. 

The  socialists  have  done  one  great  good.  They 
enable  us  to  understand  and  appreciate  the  institu- 
tions of  Moses,  and  to  see,  that  none  but  Divinity 
could  have  originated  them.*  The  situation  of  Ju- 
dea  was,  in  many  respects,  anomalous,  and  we  are 
not  to  suppose  that  its  political  and  social  relations 
were  intended  to  be  universal.  Yet,  here  it  is  dis- 
tinctly asserted,  that  untler  certain  circumstances, 
all  profits  on  capital  are  Avrong. 

The  reformers  of  the  present  day  are  all  teeto- 
talists,  and  attempt  to  banish  evil  altogether,  not 


*  Not  only  does  Moses  evince  his  knowledge  of  the  despotism 
of  capital,  in  forbidding  its  profits,  but  also  in  bis  injunction, 
not  to  let  emancipated  slaves  "go  away  empty."  Deuteronomy 
XV.  13,  14. 

"And  when  thou  sendest  him  out  free  from  thee,  thou  shalt 
not  let  him  go  away  empty.  Thou  shalt  furnish  him  liberally 
out  of  thy  flock,  and  out  of  thy  floor,  and  out  of  thy  wine-press: 
of  that  wherewith  the  Lord  thy  God  hath  blessed  thee  thou  shalt 
give  unto  him." 

People  without  property  exposed  to  the  unrestricted  exactions 
of  capital  are  infinitely  worse  off  after  emancipation  than  before. 
Moses  prevented  the  exactions  of  capital  by  providing  property 
for  the  new  free  man. 


42  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

to  lessen  or  restrict  it.  It  would  be  wiser  to  as- 
sume that  there  is  nothing,  in  its  essence,  evil,  in  the 
moral  or  physical  Avorld,  but  only  rendered  so  by 
the  wrongful  applications  which  men  nialce  of  them. 
Science  is  every  day  discovering  that  the  most  fatal 
poisons,  when  properly  employed,  become  the  most 
efficacious  medicines.  So,  what  appear  to  be  the 
evil  passions  and  propensities  of  men,  and  of  socie- 
ties, under  proper  regulation,  may  be  made  to  min- 
ister to  the  wisest  and  best  of  purposes.  Civilized 
society  has  never  been  found  without  that  competi- 
tion begotten  by  man's  desire  to  throw  most  of  the 
burdens  of  life  on  others,  and  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of 
their  labors  without  exchanging  equivalent  labor  of 
his  own.  In  all  such  societies,  (outside  the  Bible,) 
such  selfish  and  grasping  appropriation  is  incul- 
cated as  a  moral  duty ;  and  he  who  succeeds  best, 
either  hj  the  exercise  of  professional  skill,  or  by 
accumulation  of  capital,  in  appropriating  the  labor 
of  others,  without  laboring  in  return,  is  considered 
most  meritorious.  It  would  be  unfair,  in  treating  of 
the  relations  of  capital  and  labor,  not  to  consider  its 
poor-house  system,  the  ultimate  resort  of  the  poor. 
The  taxes  or  poor  rates  which  support  this  sys- 
tem of  relief,  like  all  other  taxes  and  values,  are 
derived  from  the  labor  of  the  poor.  The  able- 
bodied,  industrious  poor  are  compelled  by  the  rich 
and  skillful  to  support  the  weak,  and  too  often,  the 
idle  poor.     In  addition  to  defraying  the  necessary 


SLAVES* WITHOUT   MASTERS.  43 

expenses  and  the  wanton  luxuries  of  the  rich,  to 
supporting  government,  and  supporting  themselves, 
capital  compels  them  to  support  its  poor  houses.  In 
collection  of  the  poor  rates,  in  their  distribution, 
and  in  the  administration  of  the  poor-house  system, 
probably  half  the  tax  raised  for  the  poor  is  ex- 
hausted. Of  the  remainder,  possibly  another  half 
is  expended  on  unworthy  objects.  Masters,  in  like 
manner,  support  the  sick,  infant  and  aged  slaves  from 
the  labor  of  the  strong  and  healthy.  But  nothing  is 
wasted  in  collection  and  administration,  and  nothing 
given  to  unworthy  objects.  The  master  having 
the  control  of  the  objects  of  his  bounty,  takes  care 
that  they  shall  not  become  burdensome  by  their  own 
crimes  and  idleness.  It  is  contrary  to  all  human 
customs  and  legal  analogies,  that  those  who  are  de- 
pendent, or  are  likely  to  become  so,  should  not  be 
controlled.  The  duty  of  protecting  the  weak  in- 
volves the  necessity  of  enslaving  them — hence,  in 
all  countries,  women  and  children,  wards  and  ap- 
prentices, have  been  essentially  slaves,  controlled, 
not  by  law,  but  by  the  will  of  a  superior.  This  is 
a  fatal  defect  in  the  poor-house  system.  Many 
men  become  paupers  from  their  own  improvidence 
or  misconduct,  and  masters  alone  can  prevent  such 
misconduct  and  improvidence.  Masters  treat  their 
sick,  infant  and  helpless  slaves  well,  not  only  from 
feeling  and  affection,  but  from  motives  of  self-inter- 
est.    Good  treatment  renders  them  more  valuable. 


44  CANNIBALS   ALL  >  OR, 

• 

All  poor  houses,  are  administered  on  the  peniten- 
tiary system,  in  order  to  deter  the  poor  from  re- 
sorting to  them.  Besides,  masters  are  ahvays  in 
place  to  render  needfid  aid  to  the  unfortunate  and 
helpless  slaves.  Thousands  of  the  poor  starve  out 
of  reach  of  the  poor  house,  or  other  public  charity. 
A  common  charge  preferred  against  slavery  is, 
that  it  induces  idleness  Avith  the  masters.  The 
trouble,  care  and  labor,  of  providing  for  Avife,  chil- 
dren and  slaves,  and  of  properly  governing  and 
administering  the  whole  affairs  of  the  farm,  is  usu- 
ally borne  on  small  estates  by  the  master.  On 
larger  ones,  he  is  aided  by  an  overseer  or  manager. 
If  they  do  their  duty,  their  time  is  fully  occupied. 
If  they  do  not,  the  estate  goes  to  ruin.  The  mis- 
tress, on  Southern  farms,  is  usually  more  busily, 
usefully  and  benevolently  occupied  than  any  one  on 
the  farm.  She  unites  in  her  person,  the  offices  of 
■wife,  mother,  mistress,  housekeeper,  and  sister  of 
charity.  And  she  fulfills  all  these  offices  admirably 
well.  The  rich  men,  in  free  society,  may,  if  they 
please,  lounge  about  town,  visit  clubs,  attend  the 
theatre,  and  have  no  other  trouble  tlian  that  of  col- 
lecting rents,  interest  and  dividends  of  stock.  In 
a  well  constituted  slave  society,  there  should  be  no 
idlers.  But  we  cannot  divine  how  the  capitalists  in 
free  society  are  to  be  put  to  work.  The  master 
labors  for  the  slave,  they  exchange  industrial 
value.    But  the  capitalist,  living  on  his  income,  gives 


SLAVES  AVITHOUT    MASTERS.  45 

nothing  to  his  subjects.  He  lives  by  mere  exploi- 
tation. 

It  is  objected  that  slavery  permits  or  induces  im- 
morality and  ignorance.  This  is  a  mistake.  The  in- 
tercourse of  the  house-servants  with  the  white  fam- 
ily, assimilates,  in  some  degree,  their  state  of  infor- 
mation, and  their  moral  conduct,  to  that  of  the 
whites.  The  house-servants,  by  their  intercourse 
with  the  field  hands,  impart  their  knowledge  to  them. 
The  master  enforces  decent  morality  in  all.  Ne- 
groes are  never  ignorant  of  the  truths  of  Chris- 
tianity, all  speak  intelligible  English,  and  are  posted 
up  in  the  ordinary  occurrences  of  the  times.  The 
reports  to  the  British  Parliament  shew,  that  the 
agricultural  and  mining  poor  of  England  scarce 
know  the  existence  of  God,  do  not  speak  intelligi- 
ble English,  and  are  generally  depraved  and  igno- 
rant. They  learn  nothing  by  intercourse  with  their 
superiors,  as  negroes  do.  They  abuse  wives  and 
children,  because  they  have  no  masters  to  control 
them,  and  the  men  are  often  dissipated  and  idle, 
leaving  all  the  labor  to  be  done  by  the  women  and 
children — for  the  want  of  this  same  control. 

Slavery,  by  separating  the  mass  of  the  ignorant 
from  each  other,  and  bringing  them  in  contact  and 
daily  intercourse  with  the  well-informed,  becomes 
an  admirable  educational  system — no  doubt  a  ne- 
cessary one.  By  subjecting  them  to  the  constant 
control  and  supervision  of  their  superiors,  interested 


46  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR. 

in  enforcing  morality,  it  becomes  the  best  and  most 
efficient  police  system ;  so  efficient,  that  the  ancient 
Romans  had  scarcely  any  criminal  code  -whatever. 

The  great  objections  to  the  colonial  slavery  of  the 
latter  Romans,  to  serfdom,  and  all  forms  of  prsedial 
slavery,  are :  that  the  slaves  are  subjected  to  the 
cares  as  -well  as  the  labors  of  life ;  that  the  masters 
become  idlers ;  that  want  of  intercourse  destroys 
the  affectionate  relations  between  master  and  slave, 
throws  the  mass  of  ignorant  slaves  into  no  other  as- 
sociation but  that  with  the  ignorant;  and  deprives 
them,  as  well  of  the  instruction,  as  the  government, 
of  superiors  living  on  the  same  farm.  Southern 
slavery  is  becoming  the  best  form  of  slavery  of  which 
we  have  any  history,  except  that  of  the  Jews.  The 
Jews  owned  but  few  slaves,  and  with  them  the  re- 
lation of  master  and  slave  was  truly  aflectionatc, 
protective  and  patriarchal.  The  master,  wife  and 
children  were  in  constant  intercourse  with  the  slaves, 
and  formed,  in  practice  as  well  as  theory,  aifection- 
ate,  well-ordered  families. 

As  modern  civilization  advances,  slavery  becomes 
daily  more  necessary,  because  its  tendency  is  to  ac- 
cumulate all  capital  in  a  few  hands,  cuts  off  the 
masses  from  the  soil,  lessens  their  wages  and  their 
chances  of  employment,  and  increases  the  necessity 
for  a  means  of  certain  subsistence,  which  slavery 
alone  can  furnish,  when  a  few  own  all  the  lands  and 
other  capital. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  47 

Christian  morality  can  find  little  practical  foot- 
hold in  a  community  so  constituted,  that  to  "  love 
our  neighbor  as  ourself,"  or  "to  do  unto  others  as 
we  would  they  should  do  unto  vis,"  would  be  acts  of 
suicidal  self-sacrifice.  Christian  morality,  however, 
was  not  preached  to  free  competitive  society,  but  to 
slave  society,  where  it  is  neither  very  difiicult  nor 
unnatural  to  practice  it.  In  the  various  family 
relations  of  husband,  wife,  parent,  child,  master  and 
slave,  the  observance  of  these  Christian  precepts  is 
often  practiced,  and  almost  always  promotes  the 
temporal  well  being  of  those  who  observe  it.  The 
interests  of  the  various  members  of  the  family  circle, 
correctly  understood,  concur  and  harmonize,  and 
each  member  best  promotes  his  own  selfish  interest 
by  ministering  to  the  wants  and  interests  of  the 
rest.  Two  great  stumbling  blocks  are  removed  from 
the  acceptance  of  Scripture,  when  it  is  proved  that 
slavery,  which  it  recognizes,  approves  and  enjoins, 
is  promotive  of  men's  happiness  and  well-being,  and 
that  the  morality,  which  it  inculcates,  although 
wholly  impracticable  in  free  society,  is  readily  prac- 
tised in  that  form  of  society  to  which  it  was  ad- 
dressed. 

We  do  not  conceive  that  there  can  be  any  other 
moral  law  in  free  society,  than  that  which  teaches 
"  that  he  is  most  meritorious  who  most  wrongs  his 
fellow  beings:"  for  any  other  law  would  make  men 
martyrs  to  their  own  virtues.     We  see  thousands  of 


48  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

good  men  vainly  struggling  against  the  evil  necessi- 
ties of  their  situation,  and  aggravating  by  their 
charities  the  evils  -which  they  would  cure,  for  charity 
in  free  society  is  but  the  tax  which  skill  and  capital 
levy  from  the  working  poor,  too  often,  to  bestow  on 
the  less  deserving  and  idle  poor.  We  know  a  man 
at  the  North  who  owns  millions  of  dollars,  and  would 
throw  every  cent  into  the  ocean  to  benefit  mankind. 
But  it  is  capital,  and,  place  it  where  he  will,  it  be- 
comes an  engine  to  tax  and  oppress  the  laboring 
poor. 

It  is  impossible  to  place  labor  and  capital  in  har- 
monious or  friendly  relations,  except  by  the  means 
of  slavery,  which  identifies  their  interests.  Would 
that  gentleman  lay  his  capital  out  in  land  and  ne- 
groes, he  might  be  sure,  in  whatever  hands  it  came, 
that  it  would  be  employed  to  protect  laborers,  not 
to  oppress  them ;  for  when  slaves  are  worth  near  a 
thousand  dollars  a  head,  they  will  be  carefully  and 
well  provided  for.  In  any  other  investment  he  may 
make  of  it,  it  will  be  used  as  an  engine  to  squeeze 
the  largest  amount  of  labor  from  the  poor,  for  the 
least  amount  of  allowance.  We  say  allowance,  not 
wages ;  for  neither  slaves  nor  free  laborers  get  Avages, 
in  the  popular  sense  of  the  term :  that  is,  the  em- 
ployer or  capitalist  pays  them  from  nothing  of  his 
own,  but  allows  them  a  part,  generally  a  very  small 
part,  of  the  proceeds  of  their  own  labor.  Free  la- 
borers pay  one  another,  for  labor  creates  all  values, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  49 

and  cnpital,  after  taking  the  lion's  share  by  its  tax- 
ing power,  but  pnys  the  so-called  wages  of  one  la- 
borer from  the  proceeds  of  the  labor  of  another. 
Capital  does  not  breed,  yet  remains  undiminished. 
Its  profits  are  but  its  taxing  power.  Men  seek  to 
become  independent,  in  order  to  cease  to  pay  labor; 
in  order  to  become  masters,  without  the  cares,  duties 
and  responsibilities  of  masters.  Capital  exercises 
a  more  perfect  compulsion  over  free  laborers,  than 
human  masters  over  slaves :  for  free  laborers  must 
at  all  times  work  or  starve,  and  slaves  are  supported 
whether  they  work  or  not.  Free  laborers  have  less 
liberty  than  slaves,  are  worse  paid  and  provided  for, 
and  have  no  valuable  rights.  Slaves,  with  more  of 
actual  practical  liberty,  with  ampler  alloAvance,  and 
constant  protection,  are  secure  in  the  enjoyment 
of  all  the  rights,  which  provide  for  their  physical 
comfort  at  all  times  and  under  all  circumstances. 
The  free  laborer  must  be  employed  or  starve,  yet 
no  one  is  obliged  to  employ  him.  The  slave  is  taken 
care  of,  whether  employed  or  not.  Though  each 
free  laborer  has  no  particular  master,  his  wants 
and  other  men's  capital,  make  him  a  slave  without  a 
UKister,  or  with  too  many  masters,  which  is  as  bad 
as  none.  It  were  often  better  that  he  had  an  ascer- 
tained master,  instead  of  an  irresponsible  and  unas- 
certained one. 

^"here  are  some  startling  social  phenomena  con- 
nected with  this  subject  of  labor  and  capital,  which 


50  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

^vill  probaltly  be  now  to  most  of  ouv  readers.  Legis- 
lators and  philosophers  often  puzzle  their  own  and 
other  people's  brains,  in  vain  discussions  as  to  how 
the  taxes  shall  be  laid,  so  as  to  fall  on  the  rich 
rather  than  tlie  poor.  It  results  from  our  theory, 
that  as  labor  creates  all  values,  laborers  pay  all 
taxes,  and  the  rich,  in  the  Avords  of  Gerrit  Smith, 
"  are  but  the  conduits  that  pass  them  over  to  gov- 
ernment." 

Again,  since  labor  alone  creates  and  pays  the 
profits  of  capital ;  increase  and  accumulation  of  cap- 
ital but  increase  the  labor  of  the  poor,  and  lessen 
their  remuneration.  Thus  the  poor  are  continually 
forging  new  chains  for  themselves.  Proudhon  cites 
a  familiar  instance  to  prove  and  illustrate  this 
theory :  A  tenant  improves  a  farm  or  house,  and 
enhances  their  rents ;  his  labor  thus  becomes  the 
means  of  increasing  the  tax,  which  he  or  some  one 
else  must  pay  to  the  capitalist.  AVhat  is  true  in  this 
instance,  is  true  of  the  aggregate  capital  of  the 
world :  its  increase  is  but  an  increased  tax  on  labor. 
A.,  by  trade  or  speculation,  gets  hold  of  an  addi- 
tional million  of  dollars,  to  the  capital  already  in 
existence.  Now  his  million  of  dollars  will  yield  no 
profit,  unless  a  number  of  pauper  laborers,  sufficient 
to  pay  its  profits,  are  at  the  same  time  brought  into 
existence.  After  supporting  their  families,  it  will 
require  a  thousand  of  laborers  to  pay  the  interes-'^  r 
profits  of  a  million  of  dollars.     It  may,  therefore, 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  51 

be  generally  assumed  as  true,  that  -where  a  country 
has  gained  a  millionaire,  it  has  bj  the  same  process 
gained  a  thousand  pauper  laborers  :  Provided  it  has 
been  made  by  profits  on  foreign  trade,  or  by  nevr 
values  created  at  home — that  is,  if  it  be  an  addition 
of  a  million  to  the  capital  of  the  nation. 

A  nation  borrows  a  hundred  millions,  at  six  per 
cent.,  for  a  hundred'  years.  During  that  time  it 
pays,  in  way  of  tax,  called  interest,  six  times  the 
capital  loaned,  and  then  returns  the  capital  itself. 
During  all  this  time,  to  the  amount  of  the  interest, 
the  people  of  this  nation  have  been  slaves  to  the 
lender.  He  has  commanded,  not  paid,  for  their 
labor ;  for  his  capital  is  returned  intact.  In  the 
abstract,  and  according  to  equity,  '"  the  use  of  an 
article  is  only  a  proper  subject  of  charge,  when  the 
article  is  consumed  in  the  use ;  for  this  consump- 
tion is  the  consumption  of  the  labor  of  the  lender 
or  hirer,  and  is  the  exchange  of  equal  amounts  of 
labor  for  each  other. 

A.,  as  a  merchant,  a  lawyer,  or  doctor,  makes 
twenty  dollars  a  day;  that  is,  exchanges  each  day 
of  his  own  labor  for  twenty  days  of  the  labor  of 
common  working  men,  assuming  that  they  work  at 
a  dollar  a  day.  In  twenty  years,  he  amasses  fifty 
thousand  dollars,  invests  it,  and  settles  it  on  his 
family.  Without  any  labor,  he  and  his  heirs,  re- 
taining all  this  capital,  continue,  by  its  means,  to 
levy  a  tax  of  three  thousand  dollars  from  common 


52  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

laborers.  lie  and  his  heirs  now  pay  nothing  for 
hibor,  but  command  it.  They  liave  nothing  to  pay 
except  their  capital,  and  that  they  retain.  (This  is 
the  exploitation  or  despotism  of  capital,  which  has 
taken  the  place  of  domestic  slavery,  and  is,  in  fact, 
a  much  worse  kind  of  slavery.  Hence  arises  social- 
ism, whicli  proposes  to  reconstruct  society.)  Now, 
this  capitalist  is  considered  highly  meritorious  for 
so  doing,  and  the  poor,  self-sacrificing  laborers,  who 
really  created  his  capital,  and  who  pay  its  profits,  are 
thought  contemptible,  if  not  criminal.  In  the  gen- 
eral, those  men  are  considered  the  most  meritorious 
who  live  in  greatest  splendor,  with  the  least,  or 
with  no  labor,  and  they  most  contemptible,  who  la- 
bor most  for  others,  and  least  for  themselves.  In 
the  abstract,  however,  that  dealing  appears  most 
correct,  where  men  exchange  equal  amounts  of  la- 
bor, bear  equal  burdens  for  others,  Avith  those  that 
they  impose  on  them.  Such  is  the  golden  rule  of 
Scripture,  but  not  the  approved  practice  of  man- 
kind. 

"  The  worth  of  a  thing  is  just  what  it  will 
bring,"  is  the  common  trading  principle  of  man- 
kind. Yet  men  revolt  at  the  extreme  applications 
of  their  own  principle,  and  denunciate  any  gross 
and  palpable  advantage  taken  of  tlie  wants,  position 
and  necessities  of  others  as  swindlhii/.  But  we 
should  recollect,  that  in  all  instances  where  une- 
qual amounts  of  labor  are  exchanged  at  par,  advan- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  53 

tage  is  really  taken  by  him  ■who  gets  in  exchange 
the  larger  amount  of  labor,  of  the  wants,  position 
and  necessities  of  him  who  receives  the  Smaller 
amount. 

We  have  said  that  laborers  pay  all  taxes,  but  la- 
bor being  capital  in  slave  society,  the  laborers  or 
slaves  are  not  injured  by  increased  taxes ;  and  the 
capitalist  or  master  has  to  retrench  his  own  ex- 
penses to  meet  the  additional  tax.  -Capital  is  not 
taxed  in  free  society,  but  is  taxed  in  slave  society, 
because,  in  such  society,  labor  is  capital. 

The  capitalists  and  the  professional  can,  and  do, 
by  increased  profits  and  fees,  throw  the  whole  bur- 
den of  taxation  on  the  laboring  class.  Slavehold- 
ers cannot  do  so ;  for  diminished  allowance  to  their 
slaves,  would  impair  their  value  and  lessen  their 
own  capital. 

Our  expose  of  -what  the  socialists  term  the  exploi- 
tation of  skill  and  capital,  will  not,  we  know,  be 
satisfactory  to  slaveholders  even ;  for,  although 
there  be  much  less  of  such  exploitation,  or  unjust 
exaction,  in  slave  'society  ;  still,  too  much  of  it  re- 
mains to  be  agreeable  to  contemplate.  Besides, 
our  analysis  of  human  nature  and  human  pursuits, 
is  too  dark  and  sombre  to  meet  with  ready  accept- 
ance. We  fyhould  be  rejoiced  to  see  our  theory  re- 
futed. We  arc  sure,  however,  that  it  never  can  be; 
but  equally  sure,  that  it  is  subject  to  many  modifi- 
cations and  limitations   that  have  not  occurred  to 


5-4  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

US.  We  have  this  consolation,  that  in  rejecting  as 
false  and  noxious  all  systems  of  moral  philosophy, 
we  aro  thrown  upon  the  Bible,  as  containing  the 
onl}^  true  system  of  morals.  AVe  have  attempted 
already  to  adduce  three  instances,  in  which  the 
justification  of  slavery  furnished  new  and  addi- 
tional evidence  of  the  truth  of  Christianity.  We 
Avill  now  add  others. 

It  is  notorious  that  infidelity  appeared  in  the 
world,  on  an  extensive  scale,  only  cotemporane- 
ously  with  the  aboMtion  of  slavery,  and  tliat  it  is 
now  limited  to  countries  where  no  domestic  slavery 
exists.  Besides,  abolitionists  are  commonly  infi- 
dels, as  their  speeches,  conventions,  and  papers 
daily  evince.  Where  there  is  no  slavery,  the 
minds  of  men  are  unsettled  on  all  subjects,  and 
there  is,  emphatically,  faith  and  conviction  about 
nothing.  Their  moral  and  social  world  is  in  a  cha- 
otic and  anarchical  state.  Order,  subordination  and 
adaptation  have  vanished;  and  with  them,  the  be- 
lief in  a  Deity,  the  author  of  all  order.  It  had 
often  been  urged,  that  the  ordev  observable  in  the 
moral  and  physical  .world,  furnished  strong  evi- 
dence of  a  Deity,  the  author  of  that  order.  How 
vastly  is  this  argument  now  strengthened,  by  the 
new  fact,  now  first  developed,  that  the  destruction 
of  social  order  generates  universal  sceptici'sm. 
Mere  political  revolutions  afi'ect  social  order  but 
little,    and   generate    but   little    infidelity.     It  re- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  bb 

mainod  for  social  revolutions,  like  those  in  Europe 
in  1848,  to  bring  on  an  infidel  age;  for,  outside  of 
slave  society,  such  is  the  age  in  "which  we  live. 

If  we  prove  that  domestic  slavery  is,  in  the  gen- 
eral, a  natural  and  necessary  institution,  we  remove 
the  greatest  stumbling  block  to  belief  in  the  Bible  ; 
for  whilst  texts,  detached  and  torn  from  their  con- 
text, may  be  found  for  any  other  purpose,  none  can 
be  found  that  even  militates  against  slavery.  The 
distorted  and  forced  construction  of  certain  pas- 
sages, for  this  purpose,  by  abolitionists,  if  employed 
as  a  common  rule  of  construction,  would  reduce  the 
Bible  to  a  mere  allegory,  to  be  interpreted  to  suit 
every  vicious  taste  and  wicked  purpose. 

But  we  have  been  looking  merely  to  one  side  of 
human  nature,  and  to  that  side  rendered  darker  by 
the  false,  antagonistic  and  competitive  relations  in 
which  so-called  liberty  and  equality  place  man. 

Man  is,  by  nature,  the  most  social  and  grega- 
rious, and,  therefore,  the  least-  selfish  of  animals. 
Within  the  family  there  is  little  room,  opportunity 
or  temptation  to  selfishness — and  slavery  leaves  but 
little  of  the  world  without  tbe  family.  Man  loves 
that  nearest  to  him  best.  First  his  wife,  children 
and  parents,  then  his  slaves,  next  his  neighbors  and 
fellow-countrymen.  But  his  unselfishness  does  not 
stop  here.  He  is  ready  and  anxious  to  relieve  a 
famine  in  Ireland,  and  shudders  when  he  reads  of  a 
murder  at  the  antipodes.     He  feels  deeply  for  the 


56  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

sufferings  of  domestic  animals,  and  is  rendered 
happy  by  "witnessing  the  enjoyments  of  the  flocks, 
and  herds,  and  carroling  birds  that  surround  hina. 
He  sympathizes  with  all  external  nature.  A 
parched  field  distresses  him,  and  he  rejoices  as  he 
sees  the  groves,  and  the  gardens,  and  the  plains 
flourishing,  and  blooming,  and  smiling  about  him. 
All  men  are  philanthropists,  and  would  benefit  their 
fellow-men  if  they  could.  But  w^  cannot  be  sure 
of  benefiting  those  whom  we  cannot  control. 
>jJHence,  all  actively  good  men  arc  ambitious,  and 
would  be  masters,  in  all  save  the  name. 

Benevolence,  the  love  of  what's  Avithout,  and  the 
disposition  to  incur  pain  or  inconvenience  to  ad- 
vance the  happiness  and  well-being  of  Avhat  is  with- 
out self,  is  as  universal  a  motive  of  hunian  conduct, 
as  mere  selfishness — which  is  the  disposition  to  sac- 
rifice the  good  of  others  to  our  own  good. 

The  prevalent  philosophy  of  the  day  takes  cog- 
nizance of  but  half  of  human  nature — and  that 
the  worst  half.  Our  happiness  is  so  involved  in  the 
happinesss  and  well-being  of  everything  around  us, 
that  a  mere  selfish  philosophy,  like  political  econ- 
omy, is  a  very  unsafe  and  delusive  guide. 

We  employ  the  term  Benevolence  to  express  our 
outward  affections,  sj^mpathies,  tastes  and  feelings; 
but  it  is  inadequate  to  express  our  meaning ;  it  is 
not  the  opposite  of  selfishness,  and  unselfishness 
would  be  too  negative  for  our  purpose.     Philosophy 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         59 

has  been  so  busy  with  the  worst  feature  of  hu^The 
nature,  that  it  has  not  even  found  a  name  for  thi>]i 
its  better  feature.  We  must  fall  back  on  Chris- 
tianity, which  embraces  man's  whole  nature,  and 
though  not  a  code  of  philosophy,  is  something  bet- 
ter; for  it  proposes  to  lead  us  through  the  trials 
and  intricacies  of  life,  not  by  the  mere  cool  calcu- 
lations of  the  head,  but  by  the  unerring  instincts  of 
a  pure  and  regenerate  heart.  The  problem  of  the 
Moral  World  is  too  vast  and  complex  for  the  human 
mind  to  comprehend;  yet  the  pure  heart  will,  safely 
and  quietly,  feel  its  way  through  the  mazes  that 
confound  the  head. 


56 
suffer' 


CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    III. 

SUBJECT  CONTINUED— EXPLOITATION  OF  SKILL. 

"The  worth  of  a  thing,  is  just  what  it  will 
bring."  The  professional  man  who  charges  the 
highest  fees  is  most  respected,  and  he  who  under- 
charges  stands  diso;raced.  We  have  a  friend  Avho 
has  been,  and  we  believe  Avill  continue  to  be,  one  of 
the  most  useful  men  in  Virginia.  He  inherited  an 
independent  patrimony.  lie  acquired  a  fine  edu- 
cation, and  betook  himself  laboriously  to  an  honor- 
able profession.  Ilis  success  was  great,  and  his 
charges  very  high.  In  a  few  years  he  amassed  a 
fortune,  and  ceased  Avork.  We  expounded  our 
theory  to  him.  Told  him  we  used  to  consider  him 
a  good  man,  and  quite  an  example  for  the  rising 
generation ;  but  that  now  he  stood*  condemned  un- 
der our  theory.  Whilst  making  his  fortune,  he 
daily  exchanged  about  one  day  of  his  light  labor 
for  thirty  days  of  the  farmer,  the  gardener,  the 
miner,  the  ditcher,  the  sewing  woman,  and  other 
common  working  people's  labor.  His  capital  was 
but  the  accumulation  of  the  results  of  their  labor; 
for  common  labor  creates  all  capital.  Their  labor 
was  more  necessary  and  useful  than  his,  and  also 
harder  and  more  disagreeable.     It  should  be  con- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  59 

sidered  more  honorable  and  respectable.  The 
more  honorable,  because  thej  were  contented  with 
their  situation  and  their  profits,  and  not  seeking  to 
exploitate,  by  exchanging  one  day  of  their  labor 
for  many  of  other  people's.  To  be  exploitated, 
ought  to  be  more  creditable  than  to  exploitate.. 
They  were  "slaves  without  masters;"  the  little  fish, 
who  were  food  for  all  the  larger.  They  stood  dis- 
graced, because  they  would  not  practice  cannibal- 
ism ;  rise  in  the  world  by  more  lucrative,  less  useful 
and  less  laborious  pursuits,  and  live  by  exploitation 
rather  than  labor.  He,  by  practising  cannibalism 
more  successfully  than  others,  had  acquired  fame 
and  fortune.  'Twas  the  old  tune — "Saul  has  slain 
his  thousands,  and  David  his  tens  of  thousands." 
The  more  scalps  we  can  shew,  the  more  honored 
we  are. 

We  told  him  he  had  made  his  fortune  by  the  ex- 
ploitation of  skill,  and  was  now  living  by  the  still 
worse  exploitation  of  capital.  Whilst  working,  he 
made  thirty  dollars  a  day — that  is,  exploitated  or 
appropriated  the  labor  of  thirty  common  working 
men,  and  gave  in  exchange  his  own  labor,  intrinsic- 
ally less  worthy,  than  any  one  of  theirs.  But  noAV 
he  was  doing  worse.  He  was  using  his  capital  as  a 
power  to  compel  others  to  work  for  him — for  whom 
he  did  not  work  at  all.  The  white  laborers  who 
made  his  income,  or  interests  and  dividends,  were 
wholly  neglected  by  him,  because  he  did  not  know 


60  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

even  ulio  they  were.  He  treated  his  negro  claves 
much  better.  It  was  true,  he  appropriated  or  ex- 
ploitated  much  of  the  results  of  their  labor,  but  he 
governed  them  and  provided  for  them,  with  almost 
parental  affection.  Some  of  them  we  knew,  Avho 
feigned  to  be  unfit  for  labor,  he  was  boarding  ex- 
pensively. Our  friend  at  first  ridiculed  our  theory. 
But  by  degrees  began  to  see  its  truth,  and  being 
sensitively  conscientious,  was  disposed  to  fret  when- 
ever the  subject  was  introduced. 

One  day  he  met  ns,  with  a  face  beaming  with 
smiles,  and  said,  "I  can  explain  and  justify  that 
new  theory  of  yours.  This  oppression  and  exac- 
tion of  skill  and  capital  which  we  see  continually 
practiced,  and  which  is  too  natural  to  man  ever  to 
cease,  is  necessary  in  order  to  disperse  and  diffuse 
population  over  the  globe.  Half  the  good  lands  of 
the  world  arc  unappropriated  and  invite  settlement 
and  cultivation.  Most  men  who  choose  can  become 
proprietors  by  change  of  residence.  They  are  too 
much  crowded  in  many  countries,  and  exploitation 
that  disperses  them  is  a  blessing.  It  will  be  time 
enough  to  discuss  your  theory  of  the  despotism  of 
skill  and  capital,  when  all  the  world  is  densely  set- 
tled, and  the  men  without  property  can  no  longer 
escape  from  the  exactions  of  those  who  hold  pro- 
perty." 

Our  friends  theory  is  certainly  ingenious  and 
novel,  and  goes  far  to  prove  that  exploitation  is  not 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         61 

an  unmitigated  evil.  Under  exceptional  circum- 
stances, its  good  cftectg  on  human  happiness  and 
■ft'ell-being,  may  greatly  over-balance  its  evil  influ- 
ences. Such,  probably,  is  the  case  at  the  North. 
There,  free  competition,  and  the  consequent  oppres- 
sions of  skill  and  capital  are  fiercer  and  more  ac- 
tive than  in  any  other  country.  But  in  forty-eight 
hours,  laborers  may  escape  to  the  West,  and  be- 
come proprietors.  It  is  a  blessing  to  them  to  be 
thus  expelled,  and  a  blessing  to  those  Avho  expel 
them.  The  emigration  to  the  West  rids  the  East 
of  a  surplus  population,  and  enriches  it  by  the  in- 
terchanges of  trade  and  commerce  which  the  emi- 
gration immediately  begets.  As  an  exceptional 
form  of  society,  we  begin  to  think  that  at  the 
North  highly  useful.  It  will  continue  to  be  good 
and  useful  until  the  North-west  is  peopled.  Then, 
and  not  till  then,  it  will  be  time  for  Mr.  Greely  to 
build  phalansteries,  and  for  Gerrit  Smith  to  divide 
all  the  lands.  We  find  that  we  shall  have  to  de- 
fend the  North  as  well  as  the  South  against  the  as- 
saults of  the  abolitionist — still,  we  cannot  abate  a 
jot  or  tittle  of  our  theory:  "Slavery  is  the  natural 
and  normal  condition  of  society."  The  situation  of 
the  North  is  abnormal  and  anomalous.  So  in  desert 
or  mountainous  regions,  where  only  small  patches 
of  land  can  be  cultivated,  the  father,  wife  and  chil- 
dren are  sufficient  for  the  purpose,  and  slavery 
would  be  superfluous. 


62  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

In  order  to  make  sure  that  our  reader  sliall  com- 
prehend our  theory,  y;c  will  give  a  long  extract 
from  the  "Science  of  Society,"  by  Stephen  Pearle 
Andrews  of  New  York.  He  is,  we  think,  far  the 
ablest  writer  on  moral  science  that  America  has 
produced.  Though  an  abolitionist,  he  has  not  a 
very  bad  opinion  of  slavery.  "We  verily  believe, 
there  is  not  one  intelligent  abolitionist  at  the  North 
who  does  not  believe  that  slavery  to  capital  in  free 
society  is  worse  than  Southern  negro  slavery ;  but 
like  Mr.  Andrews,  they  are  all  perfectionists,  with 
a  Utopia  in  full  view  : 

I.  Suppose  I  am  a  wheelwright  in  a  small  village, 
and  the  only  one  of  my  trade.  You  are  travelling  with 
certain  valuables  in  your  carriage,  which  breaks  down 
opposite  my  shop.  It  will  take  an  hour  of  my  time  to 
mend  the  carriage.  You  can  get  no  other  means  of 
conveyance,  and  the  loss  to  you,  if  you  fail  to  arrive  at 
the  neighboring  town  in  sccison  for  the  sailing  of  a  cer- 
tain vessel,  will  be  8500,  which  fact  you  mention  to  me, 
in  good  faith,  in  order  to  quicken  my  exertions.  I  give 
one  hour  of  my  work  and  mend  the  cai-riage.  AVhat  am 
I  in  equity  entitled  to  charge — what  should  be  the  limit 
of  2^t'i(^(^  upon  my  labor? 

Let  i;s  apply  the  different  measures,  and  see  how  they 
will  operate.  If  Value  is  the  liuut  of  price,  then  the 
price  of  the  hour's  labor  should  be  S500.  That  is  the 
equivalent  of  the  value  of  the  labor  to  you.  If  cost  is 
the  limit  of  price,  then  you  should  pay  me  a  commodity. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  63 

k  commodities,  or  a  representative  in  currency,  wMch 
will  procure  me  commodities  having  in  them  one  hour's 
labor  equally  as  hard  as  the  mending  of  the  carriage, 
without  the  slightest  reference  to  the  degree  of  benefit 
which  that  labor  has  bestowed  on  you ;  or,  putting  the 
illustration  in  money,  thus:  assuming  the  twenty-five 
cents  to  be  an  equivalent  for  an  hour's  labor  of  an  arti- 
zan  in  that  particular  trade,  then,  according  to  the  Cost 
Principle,  I  should  be  justified  in  asking  only  twenty- 
five  cents,  but  according  to  the  Value  Principle,  I  should 
be  justified  in  asking  8500. 

The  Value  Principle,  in  some  form  of  expression,  is, 
as  I  have  said,  the  only  recognized  principle  of  trade 
thi-oughout  the  world.  "  A  thing  is  worth  what  it  will 
bring  in  the  market."  Still,  if  I  were  to  charge  you 
$500,  or  a  fourth  part  of  that  sura,  and,  taking  advan- 
tage of  your  necessities,  force  you  to  pay  it,  everybody 
would  denounce  me,  the  poor  wheelwright,  as  an  extor- 
tioner and  a  scoundrel.  Why  ?  Simply  because  this  is 
an  unusual  application  of  the  principle.  Wheelwrights 
seldom  have  a  chance  to  make  such  a  "  speculation," 
and  therefore  it  is  not  according  to  the  "  established 
usages  of  trade."  Hence  its  manifest  injustice  shocks, 
in  such  a  case,  the  common  sense  of  right.  Meanwhile 
you,  a  wealthy  merchant,  are  daily  rolling  up  an  im- 
mense fortune  by  doing  business  upon  the  same  principle 
which  you  condemn  in  the  wheelwright,  and  nobody 
finds  fault.  At  every  scarcity  in  the  market,  you  imme- 
diately raise  the  price  of  every  article  you  hold.  It  is 
your  lusiness  to  take  advantage  of  the  necessities  of 
those  with  whom  you  deal,  by  selling  to  them  accord- 


64  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

ing  to  the  Value  to  them,  and  not  according  to  the  Cos„  r 
to  you.  You  go  further.  You,  by  every  means  in  your 
power,  create  those  necessities,  by  buying  up  particular 
articles  and  holding  them  out  of  the  market  until  the 
demand  becomes  pressing,  by  circulating  false  reports  of 
short  crops,  and  by  other  similar  tricks  known  to  the  trade. 
This  is  the  same  in  principle,  as  if  the  wheelwright  had 
first  dug  the  rut  in  which  your  carriage  upset,  and  then 
charged  you  the  8500. 

Yet  hitherto  no  one  has  thought  of  seriously  ques- 
tioning the  principle,  namely,  that  ''  Value  is  the  limit 
0/  jn-ice,"  or,  in  other  words,  that  it  is  rif/Jit  to  talce  for 
a  thing  uliat  it  is  u-orth."  It  is  upon  this  principle  or 
maxim,  that  all  lionorahle  trade  professes  now  to  be  con- 
ducted, until  instances  arise  in  which  its  oppressive  ope- 
ration is  so  glaring  and  repugnant  to  the  moral  sense  of 
mankind,  that  those  who  carry  it  out  are  denounced  as 
roffues  and  cheats.  In  this  manner  a  sort  of  conven- 
tional  limit  is  placed  upon  the  application  of  a  principle 
which  is  equally  the  j)nnciple  of  every  swindling  trans- 
action, and  of  what  is  called  legitimate  commerce.  The 
discovery  has  not  hitherto  been  made,  that  the  principle 
itself  is  essentially  vicious,  and  that  in  its  infinite  and 
all-pervading  variety  of  applications,  this  vicious  princi- 
ple is  the  source  of  the  injustice,  inequality  of  condition, 
and  frightful  paupeiism  and  wretchedness  w^hich  charac- 
terize the  existing  state  of  our  so-called  civilization. 
Still  less  has  the  discovery  been  made,  that  there  is  ano- 
ther sini'ile  principle  of  traffic  which,  once  understood 
and  applied  in  practice,  will  eifectually  rectify  all  those 
monstrous  evils,  and  introduce  into  human  society  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  65 

reign  of  absolute  equity  in  all  property  relations,  while 
it  will  lay  the  foundations  of  universal  harmony  in  the 
social  and  moral  relations  as  well. 

II.  Suppose  it  costs  me  ten  minutes'  labor  to  concoct 
a  pill  which  will  save  your  life  when  nothing  else  will; 
and  suppose,  at  the  same  time,  to  render  the  case  simple, 
that  the  knowledge  of  the  ingredients  came  to  me  by  ac- 
cident, without  labor  or  cost.  It  is  clear  that  your  life 
is  worth  to  you  more  than  your  fortune.  Am  I,  then, 
entitled  to  demand  of  you  for  the  nostrum  the  whole  of 
your  property,  more  or  less?  Clearly  so,  if  it  is  right 
to  take  for  a  thing  what  it  is  worth,  which  is  theoreti- 
cally the  highest  ethics  of  trade. 

Forced,  on  the  one  hand,  by  the  impossibility,  existing 
in  the  nature  of  things,  of  ascertaining  and  measuring 
positive  values,  or  of  determining,  in  other  words,  what 
a  thing  is  reallij  v:orth,  and  rendered  partially  conscious 
by  the  obvious  hardship  and  injustice  of  every  unusual 
or  extreme  application  of  the  principle  that  it  is  either 
no  rule  or  a  bad  one,  and  not  guided  by  the  knowledge  of 
any  true  principle  out  of  the  labyrinth  of  conflicting 
rights  into  which  the  false  principle  conducts,  the  world 
has  practically  abandoned  the  attempt  to  combine  Equity 
with  Commerce,  and  lowered  its  standard  of  morality  to 
the  inverse  stateme"nt  of  the  formula,  namely,  that,  ''J. 
thing  is  icorth  lohat  it  loill  bring  f  or,  in  other  words? 
that  it  is  fitting  and  proper  to  take  for  a  thing  when  sold 
whatever  can  be  got  for  it.  This,  then,  is  what  is  de- 
nominated the  Market.  Value  of  an  article,  as  distin- 
guished from  its  actual  value.  Without  being  more 
equitable  as  a  measure  of  price,  it  certainly  has  a  great 


G6  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

practical  advantage  over  the  more  decent  theoretical 
statement,  in  the  Ikct  that  it  ks  possible  to  ascertain  by 
experiment  how  much  you  can  force  people,  through 
their  necessities,  to  give.  The  principle,  in  this  form, 
measures  the  price  by  the  degree  of  want  on  the  part  of 
the  purchaser,  that  is,  by  what  he  supposes  will  prove  to 
be  the  value  or  benefit  to  him  of  the  commodity  pur- 
chased, in  comparison  with  that  of  the  one  with  which 
he  parts  in  the  transaction.  Hence  it  becomes  immedi- 
ately and  continually  the  interest  of  the  seller  to  place 
the  purchaser  in  a  condition  of  as  much  want  as  possible; 
"to  corner"  him,  as  the  phrase  is  in  Wall  street,  and 
force  him  to  buy  at  the  dearest  rate.  If  he  is  unable  to 
increase  his  actual  necessity,  he  resorts  to  every  means  of 
creating  an  imaginary  want  by  false  praises  bestowed 
upon  the  qualities  and  uses  of  his  goods.  Hence  the 
usages  of  forestalling  the  market,  of  confusing  the  pub- 
lic knowledge  of  Supply  and  Demand,  of  advertising 
and  puffing  worthless  commodities,  and  the  like,  which 
constitute  the  existing  commercial  system — a  system 
which,  in  our  age,  is  ripening  into  putrefaction,  and 
coming  to  oifend  the  nostrils  of  good  taste  no  less  than 
the  innate  sense  of  nght,  which,  dreadfully  vitiating  as 
it  is,  it  has  failed  wholly  to  extinguish. 

The  Value  Principle  in  this  form,  as  in  the  other,  is 
therefore  /ell,  without  being  distinctly  understood,  to  be 
essentially  diabolical,  and  hence  it  undergoes  again  a 
kind  of  sentimental  modification  wherever  the  sentiment 
for  honesty  is  most  potent.  This  last  and.  highest  ex- 
pression of  the  doctrine  of  honesty,  as  now  known  in  the 
world,  may  be  stated  in  the  form  of  the  hortatory  pre- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTEKS.  67 

cept,  "Don't  be  too  bad,"  or,  '* Don't  gouge  too  deep." 
No  Political  Economist,  Financier,  Moralist,  or  Religion- 
ist, has  any  more  definite  standard  of  right  in  commer- 
cial transactions  than  that.  It  is  not  too  much  to  affirm 
that  neither  Political  Economist,  Financier,  Moralist,  nor 
Religionist  knows  at  this  day,  nor  ever  has  known,  what  it 
is  to  be  honest.  The  religious  teacher,  who  exhorts  his 
hearers  from  Sabbath  to  Sabbath  to  be  fair  in  their  deal- 
iugs  with  each  other  and  with  the  outside  world,  does  not 
know,  and  could  not  for  his  life  tell,  how  much  he  is,  in 
fair  dealing  or  equity,  bound  to  pay  his  washerwoman  or 
his  housekeeper  for  any  service  whatever  which  they  may 
render.  The  sentiment  of  honesty  exists,  but  the  science 
of  honesty  is  wanting.  The  sentiment  is  first  in  order. 
The  science  must  be  an  outgrowth,  a  consequential  de- 
velopment of  the  sentiment.  The  precepts  of  Christian 
Morality  deal  properly  with  that  which  is  the  soul  of  the 
other,  leaving  to  intellectual  investigation  the  discovery 
of  its  scientific  complement. 

It  follows  from  what  has  been  said,  that  the  Value 
Principle  is  the  commercial  embodiment  of  the  essential 
element  of  conquest  and  war — war  transferred  from  the 
battle-field  to  the  counter — none  the  less  opposed,  how- 
ever, to  the  spirit  of  Christian  Morality,  or  the  sentiment 
of  human  brotherhpod.  In  bodily  conflict,  the  physic- 
ally strong  conquer  and  subject  the  physically  weak.  In 
the  conflict  of  trade,  the  intellectually  astute  and  power- 
ful conquer  and  subject  those  who  are  intellectually  fee- 
ble, or  whose  intellectual  development  is  not  of  the  pre- 
cise kind  to  fit  them  for  the  conflict  of  wits  in  the  matter 
of  trade.     With  the  progress  of  civilization  and  develop- 


68  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

ment  we  have  ceased  to  think  that  superior  physical 
strcngtli  gives  the  rijlit  of  conquest  aud  subjugation. 
We  have  graduated,  in  idea,  out  of  the  period  of  phy- 
sical dominion.  We  remain,  however,  as  yet  in  the 
period  of  intellectual  conquest  or  plunder.  It  has  not 
been  questioned  hitherto,  as  a  general  proposition,  that 
the  man  who  has  superior  intellectual  endowments  to 
others,  has  a  right  resulting  therefrom  to  profit  thereby 
at  the  cost  of  others.  In  the  extreme  applications  of  the 
admission  only  is  the  conclusion  ever  denied.  In  the 
whole  field  of  what  are  denominated  the  legitimate  opera- 
tions of  trade,  there  is  no  other  law  recognized  than  the 
relative  ''smartness"  or  shrewdness  of  the  parties, 
modified  at  most  by  the  sentimental  precept  stated  above. 

The  intrinsic  wrongfulness  of  the  principal  axioms  and 
practice  of  existing  commerce  will  appear  to  every  re- 
flecting mind  from  the  preceding  analysis.  It  will  be 
proper,  however,  before  dismissing  the  consideration  of 
the  Value  Principle,  to  trace  out  a  little  more  in  detail 
some  of  its  specific  results. 

The  principle  itself  being  essentially  iniquitous,  all 
the  fruits  of  the  principle  are  necessarily  pernicious. 

Among  the  consequences  which  flow  from  it  are  the 
following: 

I.  It  rendt-rs  falsehood  and  liypoci:isij  a  necessavT/  con- 
comitant of  trade.  Where  the  object  is  to  buy  cheap 
and  sell  dear,  the  parties  find  their  interest  in  mutual 
deception.  It  is  taught,  in  theory,  that  "  honesty  is  the 
best  policy,"  in  the  long  run  ;  but  in  practice  the  mer- 
chant discovers  speedily  that  he  must  starve  if  he  acts 
upon  the  precept — in  the  short  run.     Honesty — even  as 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  69 

much  honesty  as  can  be  anivod  at — is  not  the  best  policy 
under  the  present  unscientific  system  of  commerce ;  if 
by  the  best  policy  is  meant  that  which  tends  to  success  in 
business.  Professional  merchants  are  sharp  to  distinguish 
their  true  policy  for  that  end,  and  thoy  do  not  find  it  in  a 
full  exposition  of  the  truth.  Intelligent  merchants  know 
the  fact  well,  and  conscientious  merchants  deplore  it; 
but  they  see  no  remedy.  The  theory  of  trade  taught  to 
innocent  youths  in  the  retired  family,  or  the  Sunday 
school,  would  ruin  any  clerk,  if  adhered  to  behind  the 
countei",  in  a  fortnight.  Hence  it  is  uniformly  aban- 
doned, and  a  new  system  of  morality  acquired  the  mo- 
ment a  practical  application  is  to  be  made  of  the  instruc- 
tion. A  frank  disclosure,  by  the  merchant,  of  all  the 
secret  advantages  in  his  possession,  would  destroy  his 
reputation  for  sagacity  as  eifectually  as  it  would  that  of 
the  gambler  among  his  associates.  Both  commerce  and 
gambling,  as  professions,  are  systems  of  strategy.  It  is 
the  business  of  both  parties  to  a  trade  to  over-reach  each 
other — a  fact  which  finds  its  unblushing  announcement  in 
the  maxim  of  the  Common  Law,  Caveat  emptor,  (let  the 
purchaser  take  care.) 

II.  It  makes  the  rich  richer  and.  the  poor  poorer. — 
Trade  being,  under  this  system,  the  intellectual  corres- 
pondence to  the  occupation  of  the  cut-throat  or  con- 
queror under  the  reign  of  physical  force — the  stronger 
consequently  accumulating  more  than  his  share  at  the 
cost  of  the  destruction  of  the  weaker — the  consequence 
of  the  principle  is  that  the  occupation  of  trade,  fur  those 
who  possess  intellectual  superiority,  with  other  favorable 
condition-s,  enables  them  to  accumulate  more  than  their 


70  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

share  of  wealth,  while  it  reduces  those  whose  iutolloctual 
development — of  the  precise  kind  requisite  for  this  spe- 
cies of  contest — and  whose  material  comlitions  arc  less 
favorahle — to  wretchedness  and  poverty. 

III.  It  creates  trade  for  trade's  sake,  and  augments 
tlie  nnmher  of  non-producers,  whose  sujyj^ort  is  chargea- 
hle  njion  Labor.  As  trade  under  the  operation  of  this 
principle,  oflPers  the  temptation  of  illicit  gains  and  rapid 
wealth  at  the  expense  of  others,  it  creates  trade  where 
there  is  no  necessity  for  trade — not  as  a  heneficent  inter- 
change of  commodities  between  producers  and  consumerSj 
but  as  a  means  of  spcculatiou.  Hence  thousands  are 
withdrawn  from  actual  production  and  thrust  unnecessa- 
rily into  the  business  of  exchanging,  mutually  devouring 
each  other  by  competition,  and  drawing  their  subsistence 
and  theii;  wealth  from  the  producing  classes,  without  ren- 
dering any  equivalent  service.  Hence  the  interminable 
range  of  intermediates  between  the  j)roduccr  and  consu- 
mer, the  total  defeat  of  organization  and  economy  in  the 
distribution  of  products,  and  the  intolerable  burden  of 
the  unproductive  classes  upon  labor,  together  with  a  host 
of  the  frightful  results  of  pauperism  and  crime. 

IV.  //  degrades  the  dignity  of  Labor.  Inasmuch  as 
trade,  under  the  operation  of  this  principle,  is  more  pro- 
fitable, or  at  any  rate  is  liable  to  be,  promises  to  be,  and 
in  a  portion  of  cases  /s  more  profitable  than  productive 
labor,  it  follows  that  the  road  to  wealth  and  social  dis- 
tinction lies  in  that  direction.  Hence  "Commerce  is 
King,"  Hence,  again,  productive  labor  is  depreciated 
and  contemned.  It  holds  the  same  relation  to  commerce 
in  this  age — under  the  reign  of  intellectual  superiority — 


SLAVES   WITnOL'T    MASTERS.  71 

that  commerce  itself  held  a  few  generations  since — under 
the  reiirn  of  physical  force — to  military  achievementj 
personal  or  hereditary.  Thus  the  degradation  of  labor, 
and  all  the  innumerable  evils  which  follow  in  its  train, 
in  our  existing  civilization,  find  their  efficient  cause  in 
this  same  false  principle  of  exchanging  products.  The 
next  stage  of  progress  will  be  the  inaugTiration  of  Equity 
— equality  in  the  results  of  every  species  of  industry 
according  to  burdens,  and  the  consequent  accession  of 
labor  to  the  highest  rank  of  human  estimation.  Com- 
merce will  then  sink  to  a  mere  brokerage,  paid,  like  any 
other  species  of  labor,  according  to  its  repugnance,  as  the 
army  is  now  sinking  to  a  mere  police  force.  It  will  be 
reduced  to  the  simplest  and  most  direct  methods  of  ex- 
change, and  made  to  be  the  merest  servant  of  production, 
which  will  come,  in  its  turn,  to  be  regarded  as  conferring 
the  only  true  patents  of  nobility. 

V.  It  jit'evcnts  the  possibility  of  a  scientfic  Adjustment 
of  Supply  to  Demand.  It  has  been  already  shown  that 
speculation  is  the  cause  why  there  has  never  been,  and 
cannot  now  be  any  scientific  Adaptation  of  Supply  to 
Demand.  It  has  also  been  partially  shown,  at  various 
points,  that  speculation,  or  trading  in  chances  and  fluctu- 
ations in  the  market  has  its  root  in  the  Value  Principle, 
and  that  the  Cost  Principle  extinguishes  speculation.  It 
will  be  proper,  however,  in  this  connection  to  define  ex- 
actly the  limits  of  speculation,  and  to  point  out  more 
specifically  how  the  Value  Principle  creates  it,  and  how 
the  Cost  Principle  extinguishes  it. 

By  speculation  is  meant,  in  the  ordinary  language  of 


72  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

trade,  risky  and  unusunl  enterprises  entered  upon  for  the 
sake  of  more  than  ordinary  profits,  and  in  that  sense 
there  is  attached  to  it,  among  merchants,  a  slight  shade 
of  imputation  of  dishonesty  or  disreputable  conduct.  As 
we  are  seeking  now,  however,  to  employ  language  in  an 
exact  and  scientific  way,  we  must  find  a  more  precise 
definition  of  the  term.  The  line  between  ordinary  and 
more  than  ordinary  profits  is  too  vague  for  a  scientific 
treatise.  At  one  extremity  of  the  long  succession  of 
chance-dealing  and  advantage-taking  transactions  stands 
gambling,  which  is  denounced  by  the  common  verdict  of 
mankind  as  merely  a  more  specious  form  of  robbery.  It 
holds  the  same  relation  to  robbery  itself  that  duelling 
holds  to  murder.  AVhere  is  the  other  end  of  this  succes- 
sion? At  what  point  does  a  man  begin  to  take  an  undue 
advantage  of  his  fellow  man  in  a  commercial  transaction? 
It  clearly  appears,  from  all  that  has  been  shown,  that  he 
does  so  from  the  moment  that  he  receives  froin  him  more 
than  an  exact  equivalent  of  cost.  But  it  is  the  constant 
endeavor  of  every  trader,  upon  any  other  than  the  Cost 
Principle,  to  do  that.  The  business  of  the  merchant  is 
profit-making.  Profit  signifies,  ctymologically,  something 
made  over  and  above,  that  is,  something  beyond  an 
equivalent,  or,  in  its  simplest  expression^  something  for 
nothing. 

It  is  clear,  then,  that  there  is  no  difference  between 
pi-ofit-making  in  its  mildest  form,  speculation  in  its  op- 
probrious sense  as  the  middle  term,  and  gambling  as  the 
ultimate,  except  in  degree.  There  is  simply  the  bad 
gradation  of  rank  which  there  is  between  the  slaveholder, 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  73 

the  driver  on  the  slave  plantation,  and  the  slave  dealer, 
or  between  the  man  of  pleasure,  the  harlot,  and  the 
pimp. 

The  philanthropy  of  the  age  is  moving  heaven  and 
earth  to  the  overthrow  of  the  institution  of  slavery.  But 
slavery  has  no  scientific  definition.  It  is  thought  to  con- 
sist in  the  feature  of  chattelism  ;  but  an  ingenious  lawyer 
would  run  his  pen  through  every  statute  upon  slavery  in 
existence,  and  expunge  that  fiction  of  the  law,  and  yet 
leave  slavery,  for  all  practical  purposes,  precisely  what  it 
is  now.  It  needs  only  to  appropriate  the  services  of  the 
man  by  operation  of  law,  instead  of  the  man  himself. 
The  only  distinction,  then,  left  between  his  condition  and 
that  of  the  laborer  who  is  robbed  by  the  operation  of  a 
false  commercial  principle,  would  be  in  the  fact  of  the 
oppression  being  more  tangible  and  undisguisedly  de- 
grading to  his  manhood. 

If,  in  any  transaction,  I  get  from  you  some  portion  of 
your  earnings  without  an  equivalent,  I  begin  to  make 
you  my  slave — to  confiscate  you  to  my  uses;  if  I  get  a 
larger  portion  of  your  services  without  an  equivalent^  I 
make  you  still  further  my  slave ;  and,  finally,  if  I  obtain 
the  whole  of  your  services  without  an  equivalent — except 
the  means  of  keeping  you  in  working  condition  for  my 
own  sake,  I  make  you  completely  my  slave.  Slavery  is 
merely  one  development  of  a  general  system  of  human 
oppression,  for  which  we  have  no  comprehensive  term  in 
English,  but  which  the  French  Socialists  denominate 
exploitation — the  abstraction,  directly  or  indirectly,  from 
the  working  classes  of  the  fruits  of  their  labor.  In  the 
case  of  the  slave,  the  instrument  of  that  abstraction  is 
4 


74  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

force  and  legal  enactments.  In  the  case  of  the  laborer, 
generally,  it  is  speculation  in  the  large  sense,  or  profit- 
malciivj.  The  slaveholder  will  be  found,  therefore,  upon 
a  scientific  analysis,  to  hold  the  same  relation  to  the 
trader  which  the  freebooter  holds  to  the  blackleg.  It  is 
a  question  of  taste  ^Yhich  to  admire  most,  the  dare-devil 
boldness  of  the  one,  or  the  oily  and  intriguing  propen- 
sities and  performances  of  the  other. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         75 


CHAPTER    IV. 

INTERNATIONAL    EXPLOITATION. 

As  individuals  possessing  skill  or  capital  exploi- 
tate,  or  compel  other  individuals  in  the  same  com- 
munity to  work  for  them  for  nothing,  or  for  undue 
consideration,  precisely  in  the  same  way  do  nations 
possessed  of  those  advantages  exploitate  other  na- 
tions with  whom  they  trade,  who  are  without  them. 

England  lends,  say,  five  hundred  millions  of  dol- 
lars to  governments  and  individuals  in  America.  In 
a  hundred  years,  she  will  have  withdrawn  from  us, 
in  interest,  six  times  the  amount  loaned  or  advanced, 
and  at  the  expiration  of  that  time  she  withdraws 
the  principal  itself.  We  pay  England  a  tax  of  at 
least  three  thousand  million  of  dollars  in  a  century; 
for  her  loans  to  us  are  probably  even  larger  than 
the  amount  assumed.  She  commands  the  results  of 
our  labor  to  that  extent,  and  gives  us  not  a  cent  of 
the  results  of  her  labor  in  return — for  her  principal 
loaned  represents  her  labor,  and  that  we  return  to 
her  intact.  We  are,  to  that  extent,  her  slaves, — 
" slaves  without  masters;"  for  she  commands  and 
enjoys  our  labor,  and  is  under  none  of  the  obliga- 


76  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

tions  of  a  master — to  protect,  defend  and  provide 
for  us. 

Her  superior  skill  in  the  mechanic  arts,  by  means 
of  free  trade,  taxes  or  exploitatcs  us  quite  as 
much  as  her  capital.  She  exchanges  her  compara- 
tively light  and  skillful  labor,  for  our  hard,  exposed 
and  unintcllectual  labor ;  and,  in  the  general,  com- 
pels us  to  labor  three  hours  for  her,  Avhen  she 
labors  one  for  us.  Thus,  after  deducting  the  cost 
of  the  material,  a  yard  of  her  cloth  will  exchange 
for  an  amount  of  our  cotton,  corn  or  meat,  that 
cost  three  times  as  much  labor  to  produce  as  her 
yard  of  cloth. 

As  in  society,  the  skillful  and  professional  tax  or 
exploitate  the  common  laborer,  by  exchanging  one 
hour  of  their  light  labor  for  many  of  the  common 
•workingman's  hard  labor;  as  lawyers,  doctors,  mer- 
chants and  mechanics  deal  with  day  laborers,  so 
England  and  New  England  treat  us  of  the  South. 
This  theory,  and  this  alone,  accounts  for  England's 
ability  to  pay  the  interest  on  her  national  debt,  and 
yet  increase  her  wealth.  She  effects  it  all  by  the 
immense  profits  of  the  exploitation  of  her  skill  and 
capital ;  by  the  power  which  they  give  her  to  com- 
mand labor,  and  appropriate  its  results,  without  con- 
sideration, or  for  a  very  partial  consideration.  She 
trades  with  the  world,  and  ctploitates  it  all,  except 
France.  France  sets  the  fashion,  and  this  enables 
her  to  exploitate  England.     England,  in  her  trade 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  77 

■with  France,  has  to  pay  for  French  fashions  as  well 
as  French  labor.  In  other  words,  France  possesses 
superior  skill,  and  exploitates  England  by  means 
of  it.  Labor,  not  skill,  is  the  just  and  equitable 
measure  of  values. 

America  sends  her  cotton,  her  surplus  grain  and 
meats,  and  other  agricultural  products,  and  her 
California  gold,  to  England,  and  gets  worse  than 
nothing  in  return  ;  for  if  she  were  compelled  to  pro- 
duce at  home  what  she  procures  from  England,  she 
must  cultivate  a  thousand  skillful  and  intellectual 
pursuits,  instead  of  being,  as  she  too  much  is,  con- 
fined to  the  coarse  drudgery  of  common  labor. 
The  Southern  States  of  this  Union  are  exploitated 
of  their  labor  and  their  brains,  in  their  trade  with 
England  and  New  England.  They  produce  nothing 
which  we  had  not  better  produce  at  home.  North- 
ern trade  exploitates  us.  Trade  further  South 
would  enrich  us  and  enlighten  us;  for  we  would 
manufacture  for  the  far  South.  We  should  become 
exploitators,  instead  of  being  exploitated. 

When  we  were  in  New  Haven,  a  distinguished 
abolitionist  boasted  to  us  that  mechanics  received 
two  dollars  per  day  for  their  labor,  and,  by  their 
China  trade,  exchanged  the  products  of  one  day's 
labor  for  twenty  days'  labor  of  the  Chinese,  who 
worked  for  ten  cents  a  day.  The  New  England 
mechanic  was  thus  the  master  of  twenty  Chinese 
laborers,  whose  labor  he  commanded  for  one  of  his 


78  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

own  day's  labor.  Here  was  an  instance  of  indi- 
vidual, not  of  national  exploitation.  Well  might 
China  dread  free  trade.  It  gives  her  task-masters, 
who  impoverish  her  people  and  depress  her  civiliza- 
tion; for  thej,  by  their  machinery  and  superior 
skill,  withdraw  her  people  from  a  thousand  me- 
chanical pursuits  that  promoted  civilization. 

In  Sociology,  we  explained  this  subject  syntheti- 
cally :  we  have  tried  now  to  expound  it  analytically. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.  79 


CHAPTER    Y. 

FALSE    PHILOSOPHY    OF  THE    AGE. 

The  moral  philosophy  of  our  age,  (which  term 
we  use  generically  to  include  Politics,  Ethics,  and 
Economy,  domestic  and  national,)  is  deduced  from 
the  existing  relations  of  men  to  each  other  in  free 
society,  and  attempts  to  explain,  to  justify,  to  gen- 
eralize and  regulate  those  relations.  If  that  sys- 
tem of  society  be  wrong,  and  its  relations  false, 
the  philosophy  resulting  from  it  must  partake  of  its 
error  and  falsity.  On  the  other  hand,  if  our  cur- 
rent philosophy  be  true,  slavery  must  be  wrong, 
because  that  philosophy  is  at  war  with  slavery. 
No  successful  defence  of  slavery  can  be  made,  till 
we  succeed  in  refuting  or  invalidating  the  princi- 
ples on  which  free  society  rests  for  support  or 
defence.  The  world,  however,  is  sick  of  its  philos- 
ophy ;  and  the  Socialists  have  left  it  not  a  leg  to 
stand  on.  In  fact,  it  is,  in  all  its  ramifications,  a 
mere  expansion  and  application  of  Political  Econ- 
omy,— and  Political  Economy  may  be  summed  up 
in  the  phrase,  "Laissez-faire,"  or  "Let  alone."  A 
system  of  unmitigated  selfishness  pervades  and  dis- 
tinguishes all  departments  of  ethical,  political,  and 


80  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

economic  science.  The  pliilosopliy  is  partially  true, 
because  selfishness,  as  a  rule  of  action  and  guide  of 
conduct,  is  necessary  to  the  existence  of  man,  and 
of  all  other  animals.  But  it  should  not  be,  with 
man  especially,  the  only  rule  and  guide ;  for  he  is, 
by  nature,  eminently  social  and  gregarious.  Ilis 
^vants,  his  weakness,  his  appetites,  his  affections, 
compel  him  to  look  without,  and  beyond  self,  in 
order  to  sustain  self.  The  eagle  and  the  owl,  the 
lion  and  the  tiger,  are  not  gregarious,  but  solitary 
and  self-supporting.  They  practice  political  econ- 
omy, because  'tis  adapted  to  their  natures.  But 
men  and  beavers,  herds,  bees,  and  ants,  require  a 
different  philosophy,  another  guide  of  conduct. 
The  Bible,  (independent  of  its  authority,)  is  far 
man's  best  guide,  even  in  this  world.  Next  to  it, 
we  would  place  Aristotle.  But  all  books  written 
four  hundred  or  more  years  ago,  are  apt  to  yield 
useful  instruction,  whilst  those  written  since  that 
time  will  generally  mislead.  We  mean,  of  course, 
books  on  moral  science.  We  should  not  be  far  out 
in  saying,  that  no  book  on  physics,  written  more 
than  four  hundred  years  ago,  is  worth  reading,  and 
none  on  morals  written  within  that  time.  The  Re- 
formation, which  effected  much  of  practical  good, 
gave  birth  to  a  false  philosophy,  which  has  been 
increasing  and  ramifying  until  our  day,  and  now 
threatens  the  overthrow  of  all  social  institutions. 
The  right  of  Private  Judgment  led  to  the  doctrine 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  81 

of  Human  Individuality,  and  a  Social  Contract  to 
restrict  that  individuality.  Hence,  also,  arose  the 
doctrines  of  Laissez-faire,  free  competition,  human 
equality,  freedom  of  religion,  of  speech  and  of  the 
press,  and  universal  liberty.  The  right  of  Private 
Judgment,  naturally  enough,  leads  to  the  right  to 
act  on  that  judgment,  to  the  supreme  sovereignty 
of  the  individual,  and  the  abnegation  of  all  govern- 
ment. No  doubt  the  Reformation  resulted  from 
the  relaxation  of  feudalism  and  the  increased  lib- 
erties of  mind  and  body  which  men  had  begun  to 
relish  and  enjoy.  We  have  no  quarrel  with  the 
Reformation,  as  such,  for  reform  was  needed;  nor 
with  all  of  the  philosophy  that  has  been  deduced 
from  it;  but  it  is  the  excess  of  reform,  and  the 
excessive  applications  of  that  philosophy,  to  which 
we  object.  Man  is  selfish,  as  well  as  social;  he  is 
born  a  part  and  member  of  society,  born  and  lives 
a  slave  of  society ;  but  he  has  also  natural  individ- 
ual rights  and  liberties.  What  are  his  obligations 
to  society,  what  his  individual  rights,  what  position 
he  is  entitled  to,  what  duties  he  should  fulfill,  de- 
pend upon  a  thousand  ever-changing  circumstances, 
in  the  wants  and  capacities  of  the  individual,  and 
in  the  necessities  and  well-being  of  the  society  to 
which  he  belongs.  Modern  philosophy  treats  of 
men  only  as  separate  monads  or  individuals ;  it  is, 
therefore,  always  partly  false  and  partly  true ;  be- 
cause, whilst  man  is  always  a  limb  or  member  of 


82  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

the  Being,  Society,  he  is  also  a  Being  himself,  and 
does  not  bear  to  society  the  mere  relation  which 
the  hand  or  the  foot  does  to  the  human  hody.  We 
shall  propose  no  ne^Y  philosophy,  no  universal  and 
unerring  principles  or  guide,  in  place  of  those  which 
we  assail.  A  Moral  Pathology,  which  feels  its 
way  in  life,  and  adapts  itself  to  circumstances,  as 
they  present  themselves,  is  the  nearest  approach  to 
philosophy,  which  it  is  either  safe  or  wise  to  at- 
tempt. All  the  rest  must  be  left  to  Religion,  to 
Faith,  and  to  Providence.  This  inadequacy  of 
philosophy  has,  in  all  ages  and  nations,  driven  men 
to  lean  on  religious  faith  for  support.  Though 
assailing  all  common  theories,  we  are  but  giving 
bold  and  candid  expression  to  the  commonest  of 
thoughts.  The  universal  admiration  of  the  pas- 
sages we  are  about  to  cite,  proves  the  truth  of  our 
theory,  whilst  it  debars  us  of  all  claim  to  origi- 
nality : 

Solomon,  melancholy,  gloomy,  dissatisfied,  and 
tossed  upon  a  sea  of  endless  doubt  and  speculation, 
exclaims,  "Vanity  of  vanities,  saith  the  Preacher; 
all  is  vanity."  But,  at  length,  he  finds  rest  from 
the  stormy  ocean  of  philosophy,  in  the  calm  haven 
of  faith.  How  beautiful  and  consoling,  and  how 
natural,  too,  his  parting  words  : 

''Let  us  licar  the  conclusion  of  the  whole  matter: 
Fear  God  and  keep  his  couimandments,  for  this  is  tlie 
whole  duty  of  man.'' 


feLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  83 

"  For  God  shall  bring  every  work  into  judgment,  with 
every  secret  thing,  -whether  it  be  good,  or  Avhether  it  be 
evil/' 

In  his  Tenth,  or  Golden  Satire,  Juvenal  comes 
to  a  like  conclusion,  after  having  indulged  in  like 
speculations : 

Nil  erg5  optabunt  homines  ?     Si  consilium  vis, 
Permittes  ipsis  expendere  numiuibus,  quid 
Conveniat  nobis,  rebusque  sit  utile  nostris. 
Nam  pro  jucundis  aptissama  quseque  dabunt  diia 
Carior  est  illis  homo,  quam  sibi. 

The  Epicurean  Horace,  in  his  first  Satire,  sees 
the  same  difSculty,  but  gives  a  less  satisfactory 
solution  : 

Est  modus  in  rebus;  sunt  certi  denique  fines, 
Quos  ultra  citraque  nequit  consistere  rectum. 

Burke's  beautiful  words,  "What  shadows  we 
are,  and  what  shadows  we  pursue!"  convey  the 
same  thought,  without  attempting  a  solution. 

Shakspeare  employs  the  profoundest  philoso- 
phy, to  assail  all  philosophy : 

"There  are  more  things  in  heaven  and  earth, 
Horatio,  than  are  di-eamt  of  in  your  philosophy." 

The  infidel,  Voltaire,  admits  that  "philosophy 
had  ascertained  few  truths,  done  little  good;"  and 


84  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

■when  he  sums  up  that  little,  satisfies  the  reader 
that  it  has  done  nothing — unless  it  be  to  perplex 
and  mislead. 

He,  Voltaire,  also,  in  another  connection,  ex- 
claims, mournfully: 

"  I  now  repeat  this  confession,  still  more  emphatically, 
since  the  more  I  read,  the  more  I  meditate,  and  the  more 
I  acquire,  the  more  I  am  enabled  to  affirm,  that  I  know 
nothing." 

Newton,  admitting  his  own  ignorance,  is  a  stand- 
ing monument  of  the  inadequacy  and  futility  of 
moral  researches  and  speculations. 

Pindar — 

Man,  the  frail  being  of  a  day, 
Uncertain  shadoTV  of  a  dream, 
Illumined  by  the  heavenly  beam, 

Flatters  his  airy  life  away. 

iEsCHYLUS — 

Vain  thy  ardor,  vain  thy  grace, 

They,  nor  foi'ce,  nor  aid  repay ; 
Like  a  dream,  man's  feeble  race, 

Short-lived  reptiles  of  a  day. 

Sophocles — 

'Tis  sad  to  think,  but  mc  the  farce  of  life  persuades, 
That  men  are  only  spectral  forms,  or  hollow  shades. 


slaves  without  masters.  85 

Aristophanes — 

Come  now,  ye  host  of  fading  lives,  lilie  the  race  of  ■withering 

leaves, 
Who  live  a  day,  creatures  of  clay,  tribes  that  flit  like  shadows 

away; 
Ephemeral,  wingless  insects,  dreamy  shapes,  that  death  expects 
Soon  to  bind  in  phantom  sheaves. 

We  will  conclude  our  citations,  which  we  might 
continue  to  the  crack  of  doom,  (for  all  who  have 
written  well  and  much,  have  indulged  similar  re- 
flections,) with  Doctor  Johnson's  Rasselas,  which 
is  intended  to  expand  and  apply  what  others  had 
concisely  and  tersely  stated.  The  Doctor's  is  an 
elaborate  failure. 

Philosophy  can  neither  account  for  the  past, 
comprehend  the  present,  nor  foresee  and  provide 
for  the  future.     "I'll  none  of  it." 


86  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 


CHAPTER    VI. 

FREE  TRADE,  FASHION  AND  CENTRALIZATION. 

Liberty  and  political  economy  beget  and  encour- 
age free  trade,  as  well  between  different  localities 
and  difierent  nations,  as  between  individuals  of  the 
same  towns,  neighborhoods  or  nations.  The  na- 
tions possessed  of  most  skill  and  capital,  and  com- 
mercial enterprise,  and  cunning,  gradually  absorb 
the  wealth  of  those  nations  who  possess  less  of 
those  qualities.  The  efiect  of  international  free 
trade,  aided  by  the  facilities  of  the  credit  system, 
of  the  mail,  and  speedy  steam  communication,  is  to 
centralize  wealth  in  a  few  large  cities,  such  as  New 
York,  Paris  and  London ;  and  of  social  free  trade 
to  aggregate  wealth  in  a  few  hands  in  those  ci- 
ties. Theoretically,  the  disparities  of  shrewdness, 
of  skill  and  business  capacity,  between  nations  and 
individuals,  would,  in  the  commercial  and  trading 
war  of  the  wits,  rob  the  weak  and  simple,  and  en- 
rich the  strong  and  cunning.  The  facts  of  history, 
and  of  the  increasing  inequalities  of  social,  indi- 
vidual and  national  wealth,  under  the  system  of 
free  trade,  stimulated  by  political  economy,  cor- 
respond   with    the   theory.      Every   month    brings 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  87 

forth  its  millionaire,  and  every  day  its  thousands 
of  new  paupers.  New  York  and  London  grow 
richer  rapidly  on  the  fruits  of  a  trade  that  robs  the 
less  commercial  and  skillful  people  who  traffic  with 
therrt. 

But  the  worst  effect  of  free  trade  is,  that  it  be- 
gets centres  of  opinion,  thought  and  fashions,  robs 
men  of  their  nationality,  and  impairs  their  patriot- 
ism by  teaching  them  to  ape  foreign  manners,  affect 
foreign  dress  and  opinions,  and  despise  what  is 
domestic.  Paris,  as  the  centre  of  thought  and 
fashion,  wields  as  much  power,  and  makes  almost 
as  much  money  as  London,  by  being  the  centre  of 
trade  and  capital.  An  American  or  Englishman 
will  give  five  prices  for  an  article  because  it  is  made 
in  Paris.  Thus  the  want  of  true  self-respect  in 
America  and  England,  makes  labor  produce  more 
in  Paris  than  elsewhere.  A  Virginian  thinks  it  a 
disgrace  to  be  dressed  in  home-spun,  because  home- 
spun is  unfashionable.  The  Frenchman  prides  him- 
self on  being  a  Frenchman ;  all  other  people  affect 
the  cosmopolitan. 

The  tendency  of  all  this  is  to  transfer  all  Avealth 
to  London,  New  York  and  Paris,  and  reduce  the 
civilization  of  Christendom  to  a  miserable  copy  of 
French  civilization,  itself  an  indifferent  copy  of 
Roman  civilization,  which  was  an  imitation,  but  a 
falling  off  from  that  of  Greece. 

We  pay  millions  monthly  for  French  silks,  French 


88  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

wines,  French  brandy,  and  French  trinkets,  al- 
though -we  can  and  do  make  as  comfortable  articles 
for  dress,  and  as  good  liquors,  at  home.  But  we 
despise  ourselves,  and  admire  the  French,  and  give 
four  hours  of  American  labor  for  one  of  French 
labor,  just  to  be  in  the  fashion.  And  what  is  our 
fashion  ?  To  treat  whatever  is  American  with  con- 
tempt. People  who  thus  act  are  in  a  fair  way  to 
deserve  and  meet  Avith  from  others,  that  contempt 
which  they  feel  for  themselves.  The  little  States 
of  Greece  each  had  its  dialect,  and  cultivated  it, 
and  took  pride  in  it.  Now,  dialects  are  vulgar  and 
provincial.  We  shall  have  no  men  like  the  Greeks, 
till  the  manners,  dress,  and  dialect  of  gentlemen, 
betray,  like  the  wines  of  Europe,  the  very  neigh- 
borhood whence  they  come.  So  thought  Mr.  Cal- 
houn, and  talked  South  Carolina  dialect  in  the 
Senate.  But  for  all  that,  it  was  the  best  English  of 
the  day.  Its  smack  of  provincialism  gave  it  a 
higher  flavor. 

We  of  the  Soutli  teach  political  economy,  be- 
cause it  is  taught  in  Europe.  Yet  political  econo- 
my, and  all  other  systems  of  moral  science,  which 
we  derive  from  Europe,  are  tainted  with  abolition, 
and  at  war  with  our  institutions.  We  must  build  up 
centres  of  trade,  of  thought  and  fashion  at  home. 
We  must  become  national,  nay,  provincial,  and 
cease    to   be    imitative    cosmopolitans.      We  must. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  89 

especially,  liave  good  colleges  and  universities, 
"where  young  men  may  learn  to  admire  their  homes, 
not  to  despise  them. 

The  South  feels  the  truth  of  all  this,  and  after 
a  "while  "U'ill  hegin  to  understand  it.  She  has  heen 
for  years  earnestly  and  actively  engaged  in  pro- 
moting the  exclusive  and  protective  policy,  and 
preaching  free  trade,  non-interference  of  govern- 
ment and  'let  alone.'  But  she  does  not  let  alone. 
She  builds  roads  and  canals,  encourages  education, 
endo"ws  schools  and  colleges,  improves  river  naviga- 
tion, excludes,  or  taxes  heavily  foreign  sho"w-men, 
foreign  pedlars,  sellers  of  clocks,  &c. ;  tries  to  build 
up  by  legislation  Southern  commerce,  and  by  State 
legislation  to  multiply  *and  encourage  industrial 
pursuits.  Protection  by  the  State  Government  is 
her  established  policy — and  that  is  the  only  expe- 
dient or  constitutional  protection.  It  is  time  for 
her  to  avo"w  her  change  of  policy  and  opinion,  and 
to  throw  Adam  Smith,  Say,  Ricardo  &  Co.,  in  the 
fire. 

We  "want  American  customs,  habits,  manners, 
dress,  manufactures,  modes  of  thought,  modes  of 
expression,  and  language.  We  should  encourage 
national  and  even  State  peculiarities;  for  there  are 
peculiarities  and  differences  in  the  "wants  and  situa- 
tions of  all  people,  that  require  provincial  and  na- 
tional, not  cosmopolitan,  institutions  and  produc- 
tions.    Take  language,  for  instance.     It  is  a  thing 


90  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

of  natural  growtli  and  development,  and  adapts 
itself  naturally  to  the  changes  of  time  and  circum- 
stance. It  is  never  ungrammatical  as  spoken  by 
children,  but  always  expressive,  practical  and  nat- 
ural. Nature  is  always  grammatical,  and  language, 
the  child  of  nature,  would  continue  so,  but  for  the 
grammarians,  who,  with  their  Procrustean  rules, 
disturb  its  proportions,  destroy  its  variety  and 
adaptation,  and  retard  its  growth.  They  are  to  lan- 
guage what  dentists  are  to  teeth :  they  more  often 
injure  it  than  improve  it. 

Grammar,  lexicography,  and  rhetoric,  applied  to 
language,  destroy  its  growth,  variety  and  adapta- 
bility— stereotype  it,  make  it  at  once  essentially 
a  dead  language,  and  unlTt  for  future  use ;  for  new 
localities,  and  changes  of  time  and  circumstances, 
beget  new  ideas,  and  require  new  words  and 
new  combinations  of  w"ords.  Centralization  and 
cosmopolitanism  have  precisely  the  same  effect. 
They  would  furnish  a  common  language  from  the 
centre,  which  is  only  fully  expressive  and  compre- 
hensive at  tliat  centre.  Walking  and  talking  are 
equally  natural,  and  talking  masters  and  walking 
masters  equally  useless.  Neither  can  foresee  and 
provide  for  the  thousands  of  new  circumstances 
which  make  change  of  language,  or  varieties  of 
movement  necessary.  Nature  is  never  at  a  loss, 
and  is  the  only  reliable  dancing  master  and  gram- 
mar teacher.     She  is  always  graceful  and  appro- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         "91 

priate,    and    always    ready    to    adapt    herself    to 
changes  of  time,  situation  and  circumstances. 

Paris  is  becomins;  the  universal  model  and  o;ram- 
mar  of  Christendom  ;  nothing  is  right  unless  it  be 
a  la  Parisienne.  Now,  in  truth,  nothing  can  be 
right,  natural,  appropriate,  or  in  good  taste,  out- 
side of  Paris,  that  is  Parisienne.  When  will  our 
monkey  imitative  world  cease  to  sacrifice  millions 
of  money,  cease  to  show  its  want  of  good  sense 
and  propriety,  and  cease  to  render  itself  ridiculous 
by  aping,  what,  in  the  nature  of  things,  is  unsuita- 
ble, inappropriate,  and  unnatural  ?  Fashion,  aided 
by  free  trade  and  centralization,  is  subjecting  us  to 
the  dominion  of  Parisian  thought ;  and  commerce, 
by  means  of  the  same  agencies,  makes  us  tributa- 
ries to  London.  Trade  and  fashion  conquer  faster 
than  arms. 

xVfter  the  Komans  had  conquered  Greece,  Athens 
became  the  school  and  centre  of  thought  for  the 
civilized  world.  Men  had  but  one  set  of  ideas,  but 
one  set  of  models  to  imitate,  in  the  whole  range  of 
the  fine  arts.  Inventiveness  and  originality  ceased, 
and  genius  was  subdued.  The  rule  of  Horace, 
'■^  Nullius  ad  diet  us  in  verba  magistri  jurare.,''  was 
versed,  and  men  ceased  to  think  for  themselves, 
but  looked  to  the  common  fountain  of  thought  at 
Athens ;  where  the  teachers  of  mankind  borrowed 
all  their  ideas  from  the  past.  Improvement  and 
progress  ceased,  and  imitation,  chaining  the  pre- 


92  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

sent  to  the  car  of  tlie  past,  soon  induced  rapid  re- 
trogression. Thus,  -wo  tliink  centralization  of 
thought  occasioned  the  decline  of  civilization. 
Northern  invaders  introduced  new  ideas,  broke  up 
centralization,  arrested  imitation,  and  begot  origin- 
ality and  inventiveness.  Thus  a  start  was  given  to 
a  new  and  Christian  civilization.  Now,  a  centrali- 
zation occasioned  bj  commerce  and  fashion,  threat- 
ens the  overthrow  of  our  civilization,  as  arms  and 
conquest  overthrew  the  ancient. 

The  ill  effect  of  centralization  of  thought,  whe- 
ther its  centre  be  the  past,  or  some  locality  of  the 
present,  is  apparent  in  the  arts  and  literature  of 
the  Latin  nations  of  Europe.  France,  Spain  and 
Italy,  though  possessed  of  more  genius,  have  dis- 
played less  originality  than  England  and  Germany. 
French  art  is  a  mere  re-hash  of  Roman  art,  and 
very  inferior  to  its  original.  The  natural  growth, 
changes  and  adaptation  of  language,  are  admirably 
described  by  Horace  in  his  De  Arte  Poetica.  He 
makes  a  great  blunder  in  advising  the  forming  and 
compounding  words  from  the  Greek,  however;  for 
the  very  want  that  occasions  new  words,  shows 
that  they  cannot  be  supplied  from  the  past.  In  the 
passage  we  are  about  to  quote,  he  seems  to  have 
seen  and  deplored  <the  advent  of  that  age  of  rule 
and  criticism  that  was  to  stereotype  language, 
thought,  art  itself,  prevent  progress,  and  inaugu- 
rate decline.     From  Horace's  day,  criticism  ruled, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  93 

language  and  art  were  stereotyped,  and  the  world 
declined : 

"Dixeris  egregie,  notum  si  callida  verbum, 
Reddiderit  junctura  novum  :  sifortii  necesso  est 
Indiciis  monstrare  recentibus  abdita  rerum, 
Fingere  ciuctutis  non  exaudita  Cethegis 
Continget ;  dabiturque  licentia  sumpta  pudenter ; 
Et  nova  fictaque  nupei'  habebunt  verba  fidem,  si 
Grteco  fonte  cadant,  parce  detorta.     Quid  autem 
CaBcilio,  Plantoque  dabit  Romanus,  ademptum 
Virgilio,  Varioque  ?  ego  cur  acquirere  pauca 
Si  possum,  invideor ;  cum  lingua  Catonis  et  Enni 
Sei-monem  patrium  ditaverit,  et  nova  rerum 
Nomina  protulerit?     Licuit,  semperque  licebit 
Signatum  prtesente  nota  procudere  nomen. 
Ut  silvse  foliis  pronos  mutantur  in  annos, 
Prima  cadunt ;  ita  verbcftum  vetus  interit  setas, 
Et  juvenum  rituflorent  modo  nata,  vigeutque." 

Italy,  of  tlie  middle  ages,  imbibed  more  of  the 
Christian  and  chivalric  element,  threw  off  for  a 
while  imitation  and  subserviency  to  the  past,  and 
shone  forth  with  brilliant  originality  in  all  the 
•works  of  art.  But  she,  like  France,  has  relapsed 
into  imitation  of  the  antique,  and  falls  far  below 
either  Roman  or  medieval  art.  With  the  age  of 
Cervantes,  Spanish  genius  expired.  His  happy  ridi- 
cule expelled  the  absurdities  of  Knight  Errantry, 
but  unfortunately  expelled,  at  the  same  time,  the 
new  elements  of  thought  which  Christianity  and 
Chivalry  had  introduced  into  modern  literature. 
They    were   its  only  progressive  elements,  in  the 


94  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

Latin  nations  of  Europe,  Avbo  in  all  else  were  mere 
Romans. 

Fenclon's  Telemaque  is  a  servile  imitation  of  Vir- 
gil's -S^neid,  and  that  is  an  equally  servile  imita- 
tion of  Homer.  Each  copy  falls  below  the  ori- 
ginal. 

Nothing  shows  so  strongly  the  want  of  origin- 
ality and  want  of  independence  of  taste  and  thought 
among  these  Latin  nations,  as  their  contempt  for 
Shalcspeare.  He  violates  all  the  rules  of  Greek 
and  Roman  art,  and  erects  a  higher  art  of  his  own ; 
but  Frenchmen,  Italians,  and  Spaniards,  have  no 
tastes  and  no  ideas  differing  from,  or  in  advance  of, 
the  ancients,  and  can  neither  understand  nor  appre- 
ciate the  genius  of  Shakspeare.  In  Germany,  he 
is  almost  as  much  read  and  admired  as  in  Eno;land. 

Imitation,  grammar  and  slavery  suit  the  masses. 
Liberty  and  Laissez  faire,  the  men  of  genius,  and 
the  men  born  to  command.  Genius,  in  her  most 
erratic  flights,  represents  a  higher  Grammar  than 
Dr.  Blair  or  Lindlay  Murray — the  grammar  of  pro- 
gressive nature.  To  secure  true  progress,  we  must 
unfetter  genius,  and  chain  down  mediocrity.  Lib- 
erty for  the  few — Slavery,  in  every  form,  for  the 
mass  ! 

The  rules  of  art  destroy  art.  Homer  never 
could  have  produced  the  Iliad,  had  he  learned 
grammar  and  rhetoric  and  criticism.  'Tis  well  for 
the    world,  he   lived    before  Longinus.     Euripides, 


SLAVES    WITHOUT   MASTERS.  95 

Sophocles,  and  Aristophanes,  and  the  Greek  Mas- 
ters in  Sculpture  and  Painting,  knew  nothing  of 
the  rules  of  art  and  canons  of  criticism.  Without 
the  modern  helps  to  art,  Grecian  art  so  far  excelled 
ours,  that  it  is  a  popular  theory  that  they  possessed 
an  Ideal  that  has  been  lost.  Early  in  the  days  of 
the  Roman  Empire,  the  rhetoricians,  by  attempting 
to  teach  eloquence  by  rule,  so  corrupted  it,  that  the 
Emperors  found  it  necessary  to  banish  them  from 
Rome. 

We  are  no  doubt  indebted  to  the  ignorance  of  the 
ancients  for  the  invention  of  Gothic  architecture. 
No  one  taught  to  reverence  Greek  architecture, 
would  have  violated  its  rules  by  imitating  the 
Gothic. 

When  about  the  time  of  the  Reformation,  the 
study  of  the  ancients  was  revived,  each  Gothic 
spire  stopped  half  way  in  its  course  towards  heaven. 
Mediasval  art  expired: — and  now  the  world  has  no 
art,  but  basely  copies  the  past. 

Had  Shakspeare  been  as  learned  as  Ben  Jon- 
son,  he  would  have  written  no  better  than  Ben 
Jonson.  The  lofty  genius  of  Milton  would  have 
created  a  glorious  English  epic,  had  he  not  trav- 
elled too  much  abroad,  and  dwelt  too  much  with' 
the  past.  The  Paradise  Lost  is  a  splendid  piece 
of  Mosaic,  made  up  of  bits  of  Greek  and  Roman 
mythology,  Hebrew  theology,  Christian  morality, 


96  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

Mediaeval  romance,  set  in  the  purest  Anglo-Saxon, 
twisted  into  Latin  collocation.  'Tis  the  song  of  the 
mocking-liird. 

AVhat,  then  ?  Shall  we  not  in  boyhood  sojourn 
and  linger  at  Athens  and  at  Rome,  nor  in  manhood 
travel  into  France  and  Italy? 

Est  modus  in  rebus.  Study  the  past,  but  be 
careful  not  to  copy  it,  and  never  travel  abroad 
until  age  has  matured  your  love  and  respect  for 
your  native  land. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         97 


CHAPTER    VII. 

THE    WORLD   IS    TOO  LITTLE  GOVERNED. 

Whether  -with  reason  or  with  instinct  blest, 
All  enjoy  that  power  that  saits  them  best; 
Order  is  Heaven's  first  law,  and  this  confessed. 
Some  are,  and  must  be  greater  than  the  rest — 
More  rich,  more  wise ;  but  who  infers  from  hence 
That  such  are  happier,  shocks  all  common  sense. 
Heaven  to  mankind  impartial,  we  confess, 
If  all  are  equal  in  their  happiness ; 
But  mutual  wants  this  happiness  increase, 
All  nature's  diii'erence,  keeps  all  nature's  peace: 
Condition,  circumstance,  is  not  the  thing; 
Bliss  is  the  same,  in  subject,  or  in  king ! 

Pope. 

Mobs,  secret  associations,  insurance  companies, 
and  social  and  communistic  experiments,  are  strik- 
ing features  and  characteristics  of  our  day,  outside 
of  slave  society.  They  are  all  attempting  to  sup- 
ply the  defects  of  regular  governments,  which  have 
carried  the  "Let  alone"  practice  so  far,  that  one- 
third  of  mankind  are  let  alone  to  indulge  in  such 
criminal  immoralities  as  they  please,  and  another 
third  to  starve.  Mobs  {vide  California)  supply  the 
deficiencies  of  a  defective  police,  and  insurance 
companies  and  voluntary  unions  and  associations 
5 


98  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

afford  that  security  and  protection  which  govern- 
ment, under  the  lead  of  political  economy,  has 
ceased  to  render. 

A  lady  remarked  to  us,  a  few  days  since,  "that 
society  was  like  an  army,  in  Avhich  the  inferior 
officers  were  as  necessary  as  the  commander-in- 
chief.  Demoralization  and  insuhordination  ensue 
if  you  dispense  with  sergeants  and  corporals  in  an 
army,  and  the  same  effects  result  from  dispensing 
with  guardians,  masters  and  heads  of  families  in 
society."  We  don't  know  whether  she  included 
the  ladies  in  her  ideas  of  the  heads  of  families ; 
protesting  against  such  construction  of  her  lan- 
guage, Ave  accept  and  thank  her  for  her  illustratijn. 
"^j  Rev'd  Nehemiah  Adams  has  a  similar  thought  in 
''  his  admirable  work,  "A  Southside  View  of  Slave- 
ry," which  we  regret  is  not  before  us.  On  some 
public  occasion  in  Charleston,  he  was  struck  with 
the  good  order  and  absence  of  all  dissipation,  and 
very  naively  asked  Avhere  Avas  their  mob.  lie  was 
informed  that  "  they  Avere  at  Avork."  He  imme- 
diately perceived  that  slavery  Avas  an  admirable 
police  institution,  and  moralizes  very  Avisely  on  the 
occasion.  Slavery  is  an  indispensable  police  insti- 
tution ; — especially  so,  to  cheek  the  cruelty  and 
tyranny  of  vicious  and  depraved  husbands  and  pa- 
rents. Husbands  and  parents  have,  in  theory  and 
practice,  a  poAver  ever  their  subjects  more  despotic 
than  kings ;  and  the  ignorant  and  vicious  exercise 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         99 

their  power  more  oppressively  than  kings.  Every 
man  is  not  fit  to  be  king,  yet  all  must  have  wives 
and  children.  Put  a  master  over  them  to  check 
their  power,  and  we  need  not  resort  to  the  unnatu- 
ral remedies  of  woman's  rights,  limited  marriages, 
voluntary  divorces,  and  free  love,  as  proposed  by 
the  abolitionists. 

Mr.  Carlj'lc  says,  "  Among  practical  men  the  idea 
prevails  that  government  can  do  nothing  but  '  keep 
the  peace.'  They  say  all  higher  tasks  are  unsafe 
for  it,  impossible  for  it,  and,  in  fine,  not  necessary 
for  it  or  for  us.  Truly,  it  is  high  time  that  same 
beautiful  notion  of  No-Government  should  take 
itself  away.  The  world  is  daily  rushing  towards 
wreck  whilst  it  lasts.  If  your  government  is  to  be 
a  constituted  anarchy,  what  issue  can  it  have?  Our 
own  interest  in  such  government  is,  that  it  would 
be  kind  enough  to  cease  and  go  its  way  before  the 
inevitable  wreck." 

The  reader  will  excuse  us  for  so  often  introducing 
the  thoughts  and  words  of  others.  We  do  so  not 
only  for  the  sake  of  their  authority,  but  because 
they  express  our  own  thoughts  better  than  we  can 
express  them  ourselves.  In  truth,  we  deal  out  our 
thoughts,  facts  and  arguments  in  that  irregular  and 
desultory  w^ay  in  which  we  acquired  them.  We 
are  no  regular  built  scholar  —  have  pursued  no 
"royal-road  to  mathematics,"  nor  to  anything  else. 


100  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OK, 

We  have,  by  observation'  and  desultory  reading, 
picked  up  our  information  by  the  ^vaysidc,  and  en- 
deavored to  arrange,  generalize  and  digest  it  for 
ourselves.  To  learn  "to  forget,"  is  almost  the 
only  thing  we  have  labored  to  learn.  "We  have 
been  so  bored  through  life  by  friends  with  dyspep- 
tic memories,  who  never  digest  what  they  read, 
because  they  never  forget  it,  who  retain  on  their 
intellectual  stomachs  in  gross,  crude,  undigested, 
and  unassimilatcd  form,  every  thing  that  they  read, 
and  retail  and  repeat  it  in  that  undigested  form  to 
every  good-natured  listener :  we  repeat,  that  we 
have  been  so  bored  by  friends  with  good  memories, 
that  we  have  resolved  to  endeavor  to  express  what 
was  useful  out  of  facts,  and  then  to  throw  the 
facts  away.  A  great  memory  is  a  disease  of  the 
mind,  which  we  are  surprised  no  medical  writer  has 
noticed.  The  lunatic  asylum  should  make  provision 
for  those  affected  with  this  disease;  for,  though  less 
dangerous,  they  are  far  more  troublesome  and  an- 
noying than  any  other  class  of  lunatics.  Learning, 
observation,  reading,  are  only  useful  in  the  general, 
as  they  add  to  the  growth  of  the  mind.  Undigested 
and  unforgotten,  they  can  no  more  have  this  effect, 
than  undigested  food  on  the  stomach  of  a  dyspeptic 
can  add  to  his  physical  stature.  We  thought  once 
this  thing  was  original  with  us,  but  find  that  Say 
pursued  this  plan  in  Avritirig  his  Political  Economy. 


i 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  101 

He  first  read  all  the  books  he  could  get  hold  of  on 
this  subject,  and  then  took  time  to  forget  them, 
before  he  be2;an  to  write^ 

We  "will  not  trouble  the  reader  further,  for  the 
present,  with  our  egotisms  or  our  arguments,  but 
refer  him  to  the  whole  of  Carlyle's  "  Latter  Day 
Pamphlets,"  to  prove  that  "the  world  is  too  little 
governed,"  and,  therefore,  is  going  to  wreck.  We 
sav,  to  the  whole  of  those  pamphlets,  for  that  is 
their  one,  great  leading  idea'.  We  also  add  an  ex- 
tract from  the  speech  of  Ulysses,  in  the  play  of 
Troilus  and  Cressida,  that  beautifully  illustrates 
and  enforces  our  thought.  We  give  the  extract 
because  it  is  a  play  that  few  read,  it  being,  on  the 
whole,  far  inferior  to  Shakspeare's  other  plays,  and 
by  few  considered  as  wholly,  if  at  all,  his  work: 

"The  heavens  themselves,  the  planets  and  this  centre, 
Observe  degree,  priority,  and  place, 
Insisture,  course,  proportion,  season,  form. 
Office  and  custom,  in  all  line  of  order: 
And,  therefore,  is  the  glorious  planet,  Sol, 
In  nobler  eminence  enthrou'd  and  spher'd 
Amidst  the  other;  wliose  med'cinable  eye 
Corrects  the  ill  aspects  of  planets  evil. 
And  posts,  like  the  commandment  of  a  king. 
Sans  check,  to  good  and  bad:   But,  when  the  planets, 
In  evil  mixture,  to  disorder  wander. 
What  plagues,  and  what  portents?  wliat  mutiny? 
What  raging  of  the  sea?  shaking  of  earth? 
Commotion  in  the  winds?  frights,  changes,  horrors. 
Divert  and  crack,  rend  and  deracinate, 


102  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

The  unity  and  married  calm  of  states 

Quite  from  their  fixture?     0,  -when  degree  is  shak'd, 

Which  is  the  ladder  of  all  high  designs, 

The  enterprise  is  sick  !     How  could  communities, 

Degrees  in  schools,  and  brotherhoods  in  cities, 

Peaceful  commerce  from  dividable  shores. 

The  primogenitivc  and  due  of  birth, 

Prerogative  of  age,  crowns,  sceptres,  laurels, 

But  by  degree,  stand  in  authentic  place? 

Take  but  degree  awaj',  untune  that  string. 

And,  hark,  what  discord  follows!  each  thing  meets 

In  mere  oppugnancy:   The  bounded  waters 

Should  lift  their  bosoms  higher  than  the  shores. 

And  make  a  sop  of  all  this  solid  globe : 

Strength  should  be  lord  of  imbecility, 

And  the  rude  son  should  strike  his  father  dead: 

Force  should  be  right;  or,  ratlier,  right  and  wrong. 

(Between  whose  endless  jar  justice  resides,) 

Should  lose  their  names,  and  so  should  justice  too. 

"We  promised  to  write  no  more  in  this  chapter ; 
but,  like  Parthos,  -when  "we  have  an  idea,"  we 
want  to  give  others  the  benefit  of  it.  "We  agree  with 
Mr.  Jefferson,  that  all  men  have  natural  and  ina- 
lienable rights.  To  violate  or  disregard  such  rights, 
is  to  oppose  the  designs  and  plans  of  Providence, 
and  cannot  "come  to  good."  The  order  and  sub- 
ordination observable  in  the  physical,  animal  and 
human  world,  show  that  some  are  formed  for  higher, 
others  for  lower  stations — the  few  to  command,  the 
many  to  obey.  We  conclude  that  about  nineteen 
out  of  every  twenty  individuals  have  "a  natural 
and   inalienable   ri^iht "   to   be   taken   care   of  and 


SLAVES   WITUOUT    MASTERS.  103 

protected  ;  to  have  guardians,  trustees,  husbands,  or 
masters  ;  in  other  'words,  they  have  a  natural  and 
inalienable  right  to  be  slaves.  The  one  in  twenty 
are  as  clearly  born  or  educated,  or  some  way  fitted 
for  command  and  liberty.  Not  to  make  them  rulers 
or  masters,  is  as  great  a  violation  of  natural  right, 
as  not  to  make  slaves  of  the  mass.  A  very  little 
individuality  is  useful  and  necessary  to  society, — 
Tiuch  of  it  begets  discord,  chaos  and  anarchy. 

.•^OTE. — Since  writing  this  chapter,  we  have  re- 
ceived our  copy  of  Mr.  Adams's  work.  We  con- 
gratulate ourselves  on  our  success  in  "learning  to 
forget."     Here  is  the  passage  to  which  we  refer : 

"One  consequence  of  the  disposal  of  the  colored  people, 
as  to  individual  control,  is  the  absence  of  mobs.  That 
fearful  element  in  society,  an  irresponsible  and  low  class, 
is  diminished  at  the  South.  Street  brawls  and  conflicts 
between  two  races  of  laboring  people,  or  the  ignorant  and 
more  excitable  portions  of  different  religious  denomina- 
tions, are  mostly  unknown  within  the  bounds  of  slavery. 
Our  great  source  of  disturbance  at  the  North,  jealousy 
and  collisions  between  Protestant  and  Irish  Roman  Cath- 
olic laborers,  is  obviated  there. 

''  AYhen  the  remains  of  Mr.  Calhoun  were  brought  to 
Charleston,  a  gentleman  from  a  free  State  in  the  proces- 
sion said  to  a  southern  gentleman,  '^  ^yhere  is  your  under- 
swell  ?"  referring  to  the  motley  crowd  of  men  and  boys 
of  all  nations  which  gather  in  most  of  our  large  places  on 


104  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OK, 

public  occasions.  He  was  surprised  to  learn  that  those 
respcctubli.',  Avell-drcsseJ,  well-behaved  colored  men  and 
boys  on  the  sidewalks,  were  a  substitute  for  that  class  of 
population  which  he  had  elsewhere  been  accustomed  to 
see  with  repugnant  feelings  on  public  occasions." 

As  "we  are  on  the  subject  of  Mr.  Adams's  book, 
we  will  give  another  extract  from  it,  confirmatory 
of  our  doctrines : 

"  There  is  another  striking  peculiarity  of  Southern 
society  which  is  attributable  to  slavery,  and  is  very  in- 
teresting to  a  Northerner  at  the  present  day.  While  the 
colored  people  are  superstitious  and  excitable,  popular 
delusions  and  fanaticisms  do  not  prevail  among  them. 
That  class  of  society  among  us  in  which  these  things  get 
root,  has  a  substitute  in  the  colored  population.  Spiritual 
rappings,  biology,  second-adventism,  Mormonism,  and  the 
whole  spawn  of  errors  which  infest  us,  do  not  find  sub- 
jects at  the  South.  There  is  far  more  faith  in  the  South, 
taken  as  a  whole,  than  with  us.  Many  things  which  we 
feel  called  to  preach  against  here  are  confined  to  the 
boundaries  of  the  Free  States;  yet  the  white  population 
are  readers  of  books,  though  not  of  newspapers,  perhaps 
more  generally  than  wo.  That  vast  amount  of  active  but 
uninstructed  mind  with  us,  which  seizes  every  new  thing, 
and  follows  brilliant  or  specious  error,  and  erects  a  folly 
into  a  doctrine  with  a  sect  annexed,  and  so  infuses  doubt 
or  contempt  of  things  sacred  into  many  minds,  is  no  ele- 
ment in  Southern  life.  This  is  one  reason  why  there  is 
more  faith,   less   infidelity,   at   the    South,   than  at  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  105 

North.  The  opinions  of  a  lower  dass  on  moral  and  reli- 
gious subjects,  have  a  powerful  effect  on  the  classes  above 
them;  more  than  is  generally  acknowledged;  and  hence 
we  derive  an  argument  in  favor  of  general  education,  in 
which  moral  and  religious  principles  shall  have  their  im- 
portant place." 


106  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    VIII. 

LIBERTY    AND    SLAVERY. 

Effugit  imago, 
Par  livibus  ventis,  volucri  que  simillima  somno. 

It  seems  to  us  that  the  vain  Jittempts  to  define 
liberty  in  theory,  or  to  secure  its  enjoyment  in 
practice,  proceed  from  the  fact  that  man  is  natu- 
rally a  social  and  gregarious  animal,  subject,  not  by 
contract  or  agreement,  as  Locke  and  his  followers 
assume,  but  by  birth  and  nature,  to  those  restric- 
tions of  liberty  which  are  expedient  or  necessary  to 
secure  the  good  of  the  human  hive,  to  which  he 
may  belong.  There  is  no  such  thing  as  natural 
human  liberty,  because  it  is  unnatural  for  man  to 
live  alone  and  without  the*  pale  and  government  of 
society.  Birds,  and  beasts  of  prey,  who  arc  not 
gregarious,  are  naturally  free.  Bees  and  herds 
are  naturally  subjects  or  slaves  of  society.  Such  is 
the  theory  of  Aristotle,  promulged  more  than  two 
thousand  years  ago,  generally  considered  true  for 
two  thousand  years,  and  destined,  we  hope,  soon 
again  to  be  accepted  as  the  only  true  flieory  of 
government  and  society. 

Modern   social   reformers,   except    Mr.    Carlyle, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        107 

proceeding  upon  the  theory  of  Locke,  which  is  the 
opposite  of  Aristotle,  propose  to  dissolve  and  disin- 
tegrate society;  falsely  supposing  that  they  thereby 
follow  nature.  There  is  not  a  human  tie  that  binds 
man  to  man,  that  they  do  not  propose  to  cut  "sheer 
asunder."  'Tis  true,  after  their  work  of  destruc- 
tion is  finished,  they  see  the  necessity  of  society ; 
but  instead  of  that  natural  and  historical  society, 
which  hns  usually  existed  in  the  world,  with  its  gra- 
dations of  rank  and  power,  its  families  and  its 
slaves,  they  propose  wholly  to  disregard  the  natu- 
ral relations  of  mankind,  and  profanely  to  build  up 
states,  like  Fourierite  Phalansteries,  or  Mormon 
and  Oneida  villages,  where  religion  shall  be  ban- 
ished, and  in  which  property,  wife  and  children 
shall  be  held  somewhat  in  common.  These  social 
establishments,  under  a  self-elected  despotism  like 
that  of  Joe  Smith,  or  Brigham  Young,  become  pa- 
triarchal, and  succeed,  so  long  as  such  despotism 
lasts.  That  is,  v,"hen  the  association  loses  the  char- 
acter intended  by  its  founders,  and  acquires  a  des- 
potic head  like  other  family  associations,  it  works 
well,  because  it  works  naturally.  But  this  success 
can  only  be  temporary;  for  nothing  but  the  strong 
rule  of  a  Cromwell  or  Joe  Smith  can  keep  a  society 
together,  that  wants  the  elements  of  cohesion,  in 
the  natural  ties  that  bind  man  to  man:  and  Crom- 
wells  and  Joe  Smiths  are  not  to  be  found  every 
day. 


108  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

'Tis  an  historical  fact,  that  tliis  family  associa- 
tion, this  patriarchal  government,  for  purposes  of 
defence  against  enemies  from  without,  gradually 
merges  into  larger  associations  of  men  under  a 
common  government  or  ruler.  This  latter  is  the 
almost  universal,  and  we  may  thence  infer,  natural 
and  normal  condition  of  civilized  man.  In  this 
state  of  society  there  is  no  liberty  for  the  masses. 
Liberty  has  been  exchanged  by  nature  for  security. 

What  is  falsely  called  Free  Society,  is  a  very  re- 
cent invention.  It  proposes  to  make  the  weak, 
ignorant  and  poor,  free,  by  turning  them  loose  in  a 
world  owned  exclusively  by  the  few  (whom  nature 
and  education  have  made  strong,  and  whom  prop- 
erty has  made  stronger.)  to  get  a  living.  In  the 
fanciful  state  of  nature,  where  property  is  unappro- 
priated, the  strong  have  no  weapons  but  superior 
physical  and  mental  power  with  which  to  oppress 
the  weak.  Tlieir  power  of  oppression  is  increased 
u  tuv^Lisand  fold,  Avlien  they  become  the  exclusive 
owners  of  the  earth  and  all  the  things  thereon. 
They  are  masters  without  the  obligations  of  mas- 
ters, and  the  poor  are  slaves  without  the  rights  of 
slaves. 

It  is  generally  conceded,  even  by  abolitionists, 
that  the  serfs  of  Europe  were  liberated  because  the 
multitude  of  laborers,  and  their  competition  as  free- 
men to  get  employment,  had  rendered  free  labor 
cheaper  than  slave  labor.     But,  strange  to  say,  few 


SLAVES  "WITHOUT    MASTERS.  109 

seem  to  have  seen  that  this  is  in  fact  asserting  that 
they  were  less  free  after  emancipation  than  before. 
Their  obligation  to  labor  Avas  increased;  for  they 
were  compelled  to  labor  more  than  before  to  obtain 
a  livelihood,  else  their  free  labor  would  not  have 
been  cheaper  than  their  labor  as  slaves.  They  lost 
something  in  liberty,  and  everything  in  rights — for 
emancipation  liberated  or  released  the  masters  from 
all  their  burdens,  cares  and  liabilities,  whilst  it  in- 
creased both  the  labors  and  the  cares  of  the  libe- 
rated serf.  In  our  chapter  on  the  Decay  of  Eng- 
lish Liberty,  we  show  that  the  whole  struggle  in 
England  has  been  to  oppress  the  working  man, 
pull  down  the  powers,  privileges  and  prerogatives 
of  the  throne,  the  nobility,  an<l  the  church,  and  to 
elevate  the  property-holding  class.  The  extracts 
from  the  Era  and  Northern  Churchman,  in  another 
chapter,  will  further  elucidate  this  subject.  We 
promised  to  confirm  our  doctrine  of  the  illusory  and 
undefinable  character  of  liberty  and  slavery,  by 
extracts  from  standard  authors. 

Paley  on  Civil  Liberty: 

''  To  do  what  we  will,  is  natural  liberty :  to  do  what 
we  will,  consistently  with  the  interest  of  the  community 
to  which  we  belong,  is  civil  liberty ;  that  is  to  say,  the 
only  liberty  to  be  desired  in  a  state  of  civil  society. 

I  should  wish,  no  doubt,  to  be  allowed  to  act,  in  every 


110  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

instance,  as  I  pleased ;  but  I  reflect,  that  the  rest  also  of 
niankiud  would  thou  do  the  same;  in  which  state  of 
universal  iMdependence  and  self-dirt'ction,  I  should  meet 
with  so  many  checks  and  obstacles  to  my  own  will,  from 
the  interierencc  and  opposition  of  other  men's,  that  not 
only  my  happiness,  but  my  liberty,  would  be  less  than 
whilst  the  whole  community  were  subject  to  the  dominion 
of  ecjual  laws. 

The  boasted  liberty  of  a  state  of  nature  exists  only  in 
a  state  of  solitude.  In  every  kind  and  degree  of  union 
and  intercourse  with  hi.s  species,  it  is  possible  that  the 
liberty  of  the  individual  may  be  augmented  by  the  very 
laws  which  restrain  it;  because  he  may  gain  more  from 
the  limitation  of  other  men's  freedom  than  he  sufl'ers  by 
the  diminution  of  his  own.  Natural  liberty  is  the  right 
of  common  upon  a  waste;  civil  liberty  is  the  safe,  exclu- 
sive, unmolested  enjoyoicnt  of  a  cultivated  enclosure. 

The  definitions  which  have  been  framed  of  civil  lib- 
erty, and  which  have  become  the  subject  of  much  unne- 
cessary altercation,  arc  most  of  them  adapted  to  this 
idea.  Thus,  one  political  writer  makes  the  essence  of 
the  subject's  liberty  to  consist  in  his  being  governed  by 
no  laws  but  those  to  which  he  hatli  actually  consented; 
another  is  satisfied  with  an  indirect  and  virtual  consent; 
another,  again,  places  civil  liberty  in  the  separation  of 
the  legislative  and  executive  ofiices  of  governn)ent;  ano- 
ther in  the  being  governed  by  laic  ;  that  is,  by  known, 
prcconstituted,  inflexible  rules  of  action  and  adjudica- 
tion; a  fifth,  in  the  exclusive  right  of  the  people  to  tax 
themselves  by  their  own  representatives;  a  sixth,  in  free- 
dom and   purity  of  elections  of  representatives;   a   scv- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  1x1. 

enth,   in   tbe   control  which  the  democratic  part  of  trig 
constitution  possesses  over  the  military  establishment." 

•    Montesquieu  on  Liberty: 

"■  There  is  no  word  that  has  admitted  of  more  various 
significations,  and  has  made  more  diiferent  impressions 
on  human  minds,  than  that  of  liberty.  Some  have  taken 
it  for  a  facult}-  of  deposing  a  person  on  whom  they  had 
conferred  a  tyrannical  authority  ;  others,  for  the  power 
of  choosicg  a  person  whom  they  are  obliged  to  obey; 
others,  for  the  right  of  bearing  arms,  and  of  being 
thereby  enabled  to  use  violence ;  others,  for  the  privilege 
of  being  governed  by  a  native  of  their  own  country,  or 
by  their  own  laws.  A  certain  nation  for  a  long  time 
thought  that  liberty  consisted  in  the  privilege  of  wearing 
a  long  beard. 

Some  have  annexed  this  name  to  one  form  of  govern- 
ment, in  exclusion  of  others ;  those  who  had  a  republican 
taste  applied  it  to  this  government ;  those  who  liked  a 
monarchical  state,  gave  it  to  monarchies.  Thus,  they 
all  have  applied  the  name  of  liberty  to  the  government 
most  conformable  to  their  own  customs  and  inclinations; 
and  as  in  a  republic,  people  have  not  so  constant  and  so 
present  a  view  of  the  institutions  they  complain  of,  and 
likewise  as  the  laws  there  seem  to  speak  more,  and  the 
executors  of  the  laws  least,  it  is  generally  attributed  to 
republics,  and  denied  to  monarchies.  In  fine,  as  in 
democracies,  the  people  seem  to  do  voi-y  near  whatever 
they  please,  liberty  has   b^en  placed  in  this   sort  of  gov- 


IrZ  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

'^iV-iiinont,  and  the  power  of  the  people  has  been  con- 
foun.led  with  their  liberty. 

It  is  true,  that  in  democracies  the  people  seem  to  do 
what  they  please ;  but  political  liberty  does  not  consist 
in  an  unrestrained  freedom.  In  governments,  that  is,  in 
societies  directed  by  laws,  liberty  can  consist  only  in  the 
power  of  doing  what  we  ought  to  will,  and  in  not  being 
constrained  to  do  what  we  ought  not  to  will. 

"We  must  have  continually  present  to  our  minds  the 
difference  between  independence  and  liberty.  Liberty  is 
a  right  of  doing  whatever  the  laws  permit;  and  if  a  citi- 
zen could  do  what  they  forbid,  he  would  no  longer  be 
possessed  of  liberty,  because  all  his  fellow  citizens  would 
have  the  same  power." 

Blackstone  on  Liberty : 

"The  absolute  right  of  mon,  considered  as  a  free 
agent,  endowed  with  discernment  to  know  good  from 
evil,  and  with  power  of  choosing  those  measures  which 
appear  to  him  to  be  most  desirable,  are  usually  summed 
up  in  one  general  appellation,  and  denominated  the  natu- 
ral liberty  of  mankind. 

This  natural  liberty  consists  properly  in  a  power  of 
acting  as  one  thinks  fit,  without  any  restraint  or  control, 
unless  by  the  law  of  nature ;  being  a  right  inherent  in 
us  by  birth,  and  one  of  the  gifts  of  God  to  man  at  his 
creation,  when  he  endued  him  with  the  faculty  of  free 
will.  But  every  man,  when  he  enters  into  society,  gives 
up  a  part  of  his  natural  liberty,  as  the  price  of  so  valua- 
ble a  purchase ;  and,  in  consideration  of  receiving  the 
advantages  of  mutual  commerce,  obliges  himself  to  con- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  rit 

form  to  tho?e  laws  which  the  community  has  thought 
proper  to  c^«tablish.  And  this  species  of  legal  obedience 
aud^ouforuiity  is  inliuitely  more  desirable  than  that  wild 
and  savage  liberty  which  is  sacrificed  to  obtain  it.  For, 
no  man  that  considers  a  moment,  would  wish  to  retain 
the  absolute,  uncontrolled  power  of  doing  what  he 
pleases ;  the  consequence  of  which  is,  that  every  other 
man  would  also  have  the  same  power;  and  then  there 
would  be  no  security  to  individuals  in  any  of  the  enjoy- 
ments of  life.  Political,  therefore,  or  civil  liberty,  which 
is  that  of  a  member  of  society,  is  no  other  than  natural 
liberty,  so  fir  restrained  by  human  laws,  (and  no  far- 
ther.) as  is  necessary  and  expedient  for  the  general  ad- 
vantage of  the  public.  Hence,  we  may  collect  that  the 
law,  which  restrains  a  man  from  doing  mischief  to  his 
fellow  citizens,  though  it  diminishes  the  natural,  in- 
creases the  civil  liberty  of  mankind  ;  but  that  every  wan- 
ton and  causeless  restraint  of  the  will  of  the  subject, 
whether  practiced  by  a  monarch,  a  nobility,  or  a  popular 
assembly,  is  a  degree  of  tyrann}' :  nay,  that  even  laws 
themselves,  whether  made  with  or  without  our  consent, 
if  they  regulate  and  constrain  our  conduct  in  matters  of 
mere  indifference,  without  any  good  end  in  view,  are  reg- 
ulations destructive  of  liberty ;  whereas,  if  any  public 
advantage  can  arise  from  observing  such  precepts,  the 
control  of  our  private  inclinations,  in  one  or  two  particu- 
lar points,  will  conduce  to  preserve  our  general  freedom 
in  others  of  more  importance,  by  supporting  that  state  of 
society  which  can  alone  s^ecure  our  independence.  Thus 
the  statute  of  King  Edward  IV,  which  forbade  the  fine 
gentlemen  of  those  times   (under  the   degree  of  a  lord) 


IJl^t  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OK, 

to  wear  pikes  upon  their  shoes  or  hoots  of  more  than  two 
inches  in  length,  was  a  law  that  savored  of  oppression; 
because,  however  ridiculous  the  fashion  then  i#use 
might  appear,  the  restraining  it  by  pecuniary  penalties, 
could  serve  no  purpose  of  common  utility.  But  the 
statute  of  King  Charles  11,  which  prescribes  a  thing 
seemingly  as  indifferent,  (a  dress  for  the  dead,  who  are 
all  ordered  to  be  buried  in  woollen,)  is  a  law  consistent 
with  public  liberty;  for  it  encourages  the  staple  trade,  on 
which,  in  great  measure,  depends  the  universal  good  of 
the  nation.  So  that  laws,  when  prudently  framed,  are 
by  no  means  subversive,  but  rather  introductive  of  lib- 
erty ;  for,  (as  Mr.  Locke  has  well  observed,)  where  there 
is  no  law,  there  i?  no  freedom.  But  then,  on  the  other 
hand,  that  constitution  or  frame  of  government — that 
system  of  laws,  is  alone  calculated  to  maintain  civil  lib- 
erty, which  leaves  the  subject  entire  master  of  his  own 
conduct,  except  in  those  points  wherein  the  public  good 
requires  some  direction  or  restraint. 

The  idea  and  practice  of  this  political  or  civil  liberty, 
flourish  in  their  highest  vigor  in  those  kingdoms  where 
it  falls  little  short  of  perfection,  and  can  only  be  lost  or 
destroyed  by  the  folly  or  demerits  of  its  owner:  the  leg- 
islature, and  of  course  the  laws  of  England,  being  pecu- 
liarly adapted  to  the  preservation  of  this  inestimable 
blessing  even  in  the  meanest  subject. 

Very  different  from  the  modern  constitutions  of  other 
States  on  the  continent  of  Europe,  and  from  the  genius 
of  the  imperial  law,  which,  in  general,  are  calculated  to 
vest  an  arbitrary  and  despotic  power  of  controlling  the 
actions  of  the  subject,  in  the  prince  or  in  a  few  grandees. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        115 

And  this  spirit  of  liberty  is  so  deeply  implanted  in  our 
constitution,  and  rooted  even  in  our  very  soil,  that  a 
slave,  or  a  negro,  the  moment  he  lands  in  England,  falls 
under  the  protection  of  the  laws,  and  so  far  becomes  a 
freeman,  though  the  master's  right  to  his  service  may 
possibly  still  continue. 

Next  to  personal  security,  the  law  of  England  regards, 
asserts  and  preserves  the  personal  liberty  of  individuals. 
This  personal  liberty  consists  in  the  power  of  locomo- 
tion, of  changing  situation,  or  removing  one's  person  to 
whatever  place  one's  inclinations  may  direct,  without  im- 
prisonment or  restraint,  unless  by  due  course  of  law. 
Concerning  which,  we  may  make  the  same  observations 
as  upon  the  preceding  article  5  that  it  is  a  right  strictly 
natural ;  that  the  laws  of  England  have  never  abridged 
it  without  suffifient  cause ;  and,  that  in  this  kingdom,  it 
can  never  be  abridged  at  the  mere  discretion  of  the  ma- 
gistrate, without  the  explicit  permission  of  the  laws." 

Now,  let  the  reader  examine  and  study  these  defi- 
nitions of  Liberty  by  Paley,  Montesquieu  and 
Blackstone,  and  he.  will  see  that  they  are  in  pursuit 
of  an  ignis  fatuus  that  eludes  their  grasp.  He 
will  see  more,  that  their  liberty  is  a  mere  modifica- 
tion of  slavery.  That  each  of  them  proposes  that 
degree  of  restraint,  restriction  and  control,  that 
will  redound  to  the  general  good.  That  each  is  in 
pursuit  of  good  government,  not  liberty.  Govern- 
ment pre-supposes  that  liberty  is  surrendered  as  the 
price  of  security.     The  degree  of  government  must 


116  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

depend  on  the  moral  and  intellectual  condition  of 
those  to  be  governed.  Take,  for  instance.  Black- 
stone's  definition  of  civil  liberty,  and  our  negro 
slaves  enjoy  liberty,  because  the  restrictions  on 
their  free  Avill  and  free  agency  not  only  redound  to 
public  good,  but  are  really  necessary  to  the  protec- 
tion and  governnment  of  themselves.  We  mean  to 
involve  ourselves  in  no  such  absurdities.  Negroes, 
according  to  Blackstone,  Paley  and  Montesquieu, 
although  slaves,  are  free,  because  their  liberty  is 
only  so  fur  restricted  as  the  public  interest  and 
their  own  good  require.  Our  theory  is,  that  they 
are  not  free,  because  God  and  nature,  and  the  gen- 
eral good  and  their  oAvn  good,  intended  them  for 
slaves.  They  enjoy  all  the  rights  calculated  to  pro- 
mote their  own  interests,  or  the  public  good.  They 
are,  at  tlie  South,  -well  governed  and  well  protected. 
These  are  the  aims  of  all  social  institutions,  and  of 
all  governments.  There  can  be  no  liberty  where 
there  is  government;  but  there  may  be  security  for 
good  government.  This  the  slave  has  in  the  selfish 
interest  of  the  master  and  in  his  domestic  j.'.ffection. 
The  free  laborer  has  no  such  securities.  It  is  the 
interest  of  employers  to  kill  them  off  as  fast  as 
possible;  and  they  never  fail  to  do  it. 

We  do  not  mean  to  say  that  the  negro  slave  en- 
^ojs  liberty.  But  wc  do  say  that  he  is  well  and 
properly  governed,  so  as  best  to  promote  his  own 
good  and  that  of  society.     We  do  mean  to  say  fur- 


SLAVES    WITHOUT    :\IASTERS.  117 

ther,  that  what  wc  liave  quoted  from  these  great 
authors,  is  all  fudge  and  nonsense.  Liberty  is  un- 
attainable; and  if  attainable,  not  desirable. 

Liberty  of  locomotion,  which  Blackstone  boasts 
of  as  one  of  the  rights  of  Englishmen,  belongs  to 
the  mass  of  them  less  than  to  other  people.  For 
five  hundred  years  the  poor  laws  have  confined  the 
poor  to  their  parishes,  denied  them  the  right  to  bar- 
gain for  their  own  wages,  and  as  late  as  1725,  set 
them  up  in  stalls  and  shambles  for  hire,  like  cattle. 
Liberty  in  England,  as  in  Rome  and  Greece,  has 
been,  and  is  noAv,  the  privilege  of  the  few — not  .the 
right  of  the  many.  But  in  Rome,  Greece,  and  the 
Southern  States  of  America,  the  many  have  gained 
in  protection  what  they  lost  in  liberty.  In  Eng- 
land, the  masses  have  neither  liberty  nor  protec- 
tion. They  are  slaves  without  masters.  This  right 
of  locomotion,  of  choosing  or  changing  their  domi- 
cil,  is  not  only  denied  to  the  mass  of  the  poor,  but 
in  all  countries  as  well  as  in  England,  to  wives,  to 
children,  to  wards,  apprentices,  soldiers,  sailors, 
convicts,  lunatics  and  idiots.  Take,  then,  this  test 
of  liberty,  and  how  little  of  it  is  there  in  England ! 
But,  in  fact,  there  is  a  very  large  nomadic  class  of 
beggars,  rogues,  and  journeymen  workmen,  who 
are  always  wandering,  and  yet,  who  are  the  most 
wretched  members  of  society  and  its  greatest  pests. 
So  much  for  locomotion. 

Great  as  the  difficulty  is  to  determine  what  is 


118  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

Liberty,  to  ascertain  and  agree  on  ■what  constitutes 
Slavery  is  still  greater.  Slavery,  in  its  technical 
form,  has  been  almost  universal,  yet  not  exactly 
alike  in  all  its  circumstances  and  all  its  regulations 
in  any  tAvo  ages,  or  in  any  tAvo  countries.  In  very 
many  ancient  States,  the  po^vcr  of  life  and  death 
•was  vested  in  the  master.  In  most  countries,  the 
slave  cannot  acquire  or  hold  property  legally.  In 
all,  he  holds  more  or  less  by  the  permission.  In 
many,  his  legal  right  to  separate  property  is  pro- 
tected by  law.  Even  in  Cuba,  he  can  compel  his 
master  to  emancipate  him,  upon  oftering  an  ade- 
quate price;  and  in  some  cases  of  irreconcilable 
disagreement,  force  his  master  to  sell  him  to  an- 
other master.  It  is  remarkable  at  first  view,  that 
in  Cuba,  ■where  the  law  attempts  to  secure  mild 
treatment  to  the  slave,  he  is  inhumanly  treated; 
and  in  A'irginia,  where  there  is  scarce  any  hnv  to 
protect  him,  he  is  very  humanely  governed  and  pro- 
vided for.  In  Cuba,  many  of  the  slaves  are  sav- 
ages, and  do  not  elicit  the  domestic  affection  of  tlie 
master,  who  sees  in  them  little  more  than  brutes. 
The  master  is,  besides,  often  an  absentee,  and  tho' 
overseers  be  far  more  humane  than  Irish  rent-col- 
lectors, they  have  neither  the  interests  nor  feelings 
of  resident  masters.  But  the  most  efficient  cause 
of  cruelty  and  neglect,  is  the  African  slave  trade, 
which  makes  it  cheaper  to  buy  than  to  rear  slaves. 
In  Virginia,  the  slaves  have  advanced  much  in  mo- 


SLAVES   "WITHOUT    MASTERS.  119 

rality,  religion  and  intelligence,  and  their  masters 
and  mistresses,  living  on  the  farm  "with  them,  natu- 
rally become  attached  to  them.  Self-interest,  ho"\Y- 
ever,  is  every"\vhere  the  strongest  motive  to  human 
conduct.  Negroes  are  immensely  valuable,  and  in 
'crease  rapidly  in  value  and  in  numbers  Avhen  "well 
treated.  The  la"W  of  self-interest  secures  kind  and 
humane  treatment  to  Southern  slaves.  All  the 
legislative  ingenuity  in  the  "world  "will  never  enact 
so  efficient  a  law  in  behalf  of  free  laborers. 

During  the  decline  of  the  Roman  Empire,  slavery 
became  colonial  or  prtcdial.  The  slaves  occupied 
the  place  of  tenants  or  serfs,  "were  "adscripti  soli," 
and  could  only  be  sold  "with  the  farm.  Many  anti- 
quarians consider  the  colonial  slavery  of  the  Re- 
mans as  the  true  origin  of  the  feudal  system.  This 
kind  of  slavery  "u-as  universal  in  Europe  till  a  few 
centuries  since,  and  now  prevails  to  a  great  extent. 
The  serfs  of  Russia,  Poland,  Turkey,  and  Hun- 
gary, are  happier  and  better  provided  for  than  the 
free  laborers  of  Western  Europe.  They  have 
homes,  and  lands  to  cultivate.  They  work  but 
little,  because  their  wants  are  few  and  simple. 
They  are  not  over-worked  and  under-fed,  as  are  the 
free  laborers  of  Western  Europe.  Hence,  they 
never  rise  in  riots  and  insurrections,  burn  houses, 
commit  strikes, — nor  do  they  emigrate. 

This  form  of  slavery,  however,  makes  the  master 
an  idle  absentee,  depriving  the  slaves  of   his  guar- 


120  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

•uianship,  his  government,  ami  Ins  protection.  By 
throwing  large  masses  of  the  ignorant  into  exclu- 
sive association  with  each  other,  it  promotes  and  in- 
creases ignorance,  negligence  and  idleness.  Men 
■will  not  improve  their  condition  Avho  have  no  exam- 
ples to  emulate  and  no  teachers  to  instruct.  AVere 
their  farms  conducted  as  ours  of  the  South,  the 
wealthy  Avould  have  ample  employment,  and  the 
slaves  or  serfs  find  in  their  masters  examples,  gov- 
ernors, teachers  and  protectors. 

The  right  to  sell  one's  children,  or  one's  self, 
into  slavery  has  been  very  common,  and  is  now 
practiced  in  China.  The  ancient  Germans  used  to 
even  stake  their  liberty  at  games  of  hazard.  This 
would  never  have  been  done,  nor  would  the  laws 
have  permitted  it,  if  the  situation  of  the  slave  had 
been  greatly  inferior  to  that  of  the  free.  But  how 
shall  we  class  wives,  children,  wards,  apprentices, 
prisoners,  soldiers  and  sailors  ?  They  are  not  free, 
because  their  personal  liberty  is  controlled  by  the 
will  of  a  superior ;  not  by  mere  law.  They  are 
liable  to  confinement  and  punishment  by  their  su- 
periors, whose  will  stands  in  place  of  law  as  to 
them.  They  have  no  right  of  locomotion  like  that 
enjoyed  by  the  free.  They  have  no  liberty  secured 
by  law ; — they  are  not  free.  Are  they,  therefore, 
slaves '{ 

Paley  defines  slavery  to  be,   "An  obligation  to 
labor  for  the   benefit   of  the  master,  without  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        121 

contract  or  consent  of  the  servant."  The  sick,  tlic 
superannuated,  the  infirm,  and  the  infant  slaves  are 
under  no  such  obligation  in  theory  or  practice. 
The  master  is  under  an  obligation,  legally,  theo- 
retically and  practically,  to  labor  for  them.  There- 
fore, the  master  of  twenty  slaves  is  always  a  slave 
himself.  If  he  be  a  good  man,  he  is  the  happier 
for  performing  his  duties  as  slave  to  those  classes 
of  his  slaves.  But  what  becomes  of  that  slavery  of 
the  ancients  and  of  China,  where  the  slave,  by 
actual  contract,  sells  iiimself?  This  is  not  slavery 
according  to  Paley. 

The  great  and  glaring  defect,  however,  of  Paley's 
definition  is,  that  he  omits  the  obligation  on*  the 
master  to  provide  for  and  protect  the  slave.  'Tis 
but  half  of  a  definition,  and  that  half  false.  It 
does  often  happen  that  the  obligatio7is  of  the  master 
are  more  onerous  than  those  of  the  slave.  Yet 
Paley  omits  those  obligations  altogether.  The 
slave,  when  capable  to  do  so,  must  work  for  the 
master ;  but  the  master,  at  all  times,  must  provide 
for  the  slave.  If  incapable  of  doing  so,  the  law 
gives  the  slave  a  new  master  and  protector.  His 
situation  is  less  honorable,  but  far  more  secure  than 
that  of  the  master.  Definitions  are  perilous  at- 
tempts. We  never  read  one  that  a  seventy-four  with 
all  sail  set  mifdit  not  drive  through.  We  shall  de- 
fine  nothing  ourselves,  for  we  know  that  this  is  the 
6 


122  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR. 

business  of  Omnipotence,  that  alone  knows  "  all 
things  in  heaven  and  on  earth." 

We  proceed  to  examine  the  attempted  definitions 
of  Montesquieu  and  Blackstone.  Blackstone  objects 
to  the  right  to  sell  one's  self,  that  the  consideration 
enures  to  the  buyer.  This  may  or  may  not  be  so,  ac- 
cording to  the  hiAvs  of  the  State  where  the  contract 
is  made.  It  is  not  a  necessary  feature  of  slavery,  and 
cannot  fairly  be  employed  as  an  objection  to  it.  In 
fact,  the  slaves  of  the  South,  in  their  houses,  gardens, 
fruit,  vegetables,  pigs  and  fowls,  hold  more  property 
than  the  peasantry  of  Europe,  and  arc  far  better 
secured  in  its  possession  by  their  masters,  than  that 
peasantry  is  by  the  law.  He  further  objects,  that 
in  case  of  absolute  slavery,  not  only  the  liberty,  but 
the  life  of  the  slave  is  at  the  master's  disposal. 
This  objection  is  false  and  puerile.  In  no  civilized 
country  has  the  master  the  right  to  kill  his  slave. 

The  protection  or  support  to  which  the  slave  is 
entitled,  would  be  an  ample  consideration  of  itself 
for  the  sale  of  his  liberty.  A  much  larger  one 
than  the  capitalists  of  Europe  would  be  willing  to 
give ;  for  they  all  say  that  free  labor  is  cheapest. 

Montesquieu  thus  defi.nes  slavery: — "Slavery, 
properly  so  called,  is  the  establishment  of  a  right 
which  gives  to  one  man  such  a  power  over  another, 
as  renders  him  absolute  master  of  his  life  and  for- 
tune." This  is  French  liberty  under  the  rule  of 
the  republican  Bonapartes,  and  English  liberty  un- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  123 

der  Cromwell — not  Southern  slavery.  France  is 
always  liappy  and  prosperous  with  a  master,  and 
the  masses  in  England  look  back  to  the  Protector- 
ate with  fond  regret.  The^e  despots  played  the  part 
of  Southern  masters.  They  forced  the  strong  to 
support  the  weak,  the  rich  to  take  care  of  the  poor. 
The  nations  became  two  farms  or  families.  West- 
ern Europe  will  soon  have  to  choose  between  do- 
mestic slavery  and  universal  slavery. 

Democracy  and  liberty  are  antagonistic ;  for  lib- 
erty permits  and  encourages  the  weak  to  oppress 
the  strong,  whilst  democracy  proposes,  so  far  as 
possible,  to  equalize  advantages,  by  fairly  dividing 
the  burdens  of  life,  and  rigidly  enforcing  the  per- 
formance of  every  social  duty  by  every  member  of 
society,  according  to  his  capacity  and  ability. 


12  i  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OR, 


CHAPTER    IX. 

PALEY    ON    EXPLOITATION. 

Paley  maintains,  to  its  fullest  extent,  the  doc- 
trine of  exploitation  "which  we  have  endeavored  to 
expound  and  illustrate  in  the  last  three  chapters. 
Yet,  neither  Paley  nor  any  of  his  readers  were 
ever  aware  of  its  tremendous  consequences.  It  is 
only  when  those  consequences  are  pointed  out,  that 
the  tnind  revolts  at  the  theory. 

He  saw  and  said,  that  capital  paid  labor  no- 
thing, yet  discovered  no  iniquity  in  the  transac- 
tion. He  saw  that  labor  produced  every  thing — 
capital  nothing,  and  "  all  that  the  capitalist  does  is, 
to  distribute  what  others  produce."  He  should 
have  added,  after  retaining  the  "  lion's  share"  him- 
self. Our  whole  theory  is  to  be  found  in  a  single 
paragraph  of  Paley,  and  if  there  be  nothing 
strange  or  monstrous  in  his  theory,  there  can  be 
nothing  of  the  kind  in  ours ;  for  our  theories  are 
identical.  Chapter  2,  Book  3d  of  his  philoso- 
phy, under  the  head  of  "  The  treatment  of  our  do- 
mestics and  dependants,"  he  employs  the  following 
language:  "xVnother  reflection  of  a  like  tendency 
with  the  former  is,  that  our  oblio;ation  to  them  is  much 


SLAVES    WITUOUT    Mi»STEIlS.  125 

greater  than  theirs  to  us.  It  is  a  mistake  to  sup- 
pose that  the  rich  man  maintains  his  servants, 
tradesmen,  tenants  and  laborers  :  the  truth  is,  they 
maintain  him.  It  is  their  industry  ^Yhich  supplies 
his  table,  furnishes  his  wardrobe,  builds  his  houses, 
adorns  his  equipage,  provides  his  amusements.  It 
is  not  the  estate,  but  the  labor  employed  on  it,  that 
pays  his  rents.  All  that  lie  docs  is,  to  distribute 
what  others  produce  ;  tvhieh  is  the  least  part  of  the 
business."  He  should  have  added,  "  but  far  the 
most  profitable  part." 

A  few  additional  truths,  and  this  paragraph  of 
Paley's  would  be  an  admirable  description  of  "  Can- 
nibals "  above,  and  "  Slaves  without  Masters,"  be- 
low. 

His  servants  are  obliged  to  work  as  our  slaves, 
not  for  pay,  but  for  an  allowance  out  of  the  pro- 
ceeds of  their  own  labor.  His  employers,  like  our 
masters,  only  distribute  something  of  their  earnings 
to  the  laborers,  givino-  them  far  less  than  masters 
give  to  slaves,  retaining;  more  to  themselves — and 
hence  "free  labor  is  cheaper  than  slave  labor." 

But  Paley  did  not  comprehend  what  he  wrote. 
We,  aided  by  the  Socialists,  will  try  to  make  it  un- 
derstood by  others. 

Philosophy  cannot  justify  the  relation  between 
the  free  laborer,  and  the  idle,  irresponsible  em- 
ployer. But,  'tis  easy  to  justify  that  between  mas- 
ter and  slave.     Their  obligations  are  mutual  and 


126  CANNIBALS   ALL;     OR, 

equal ;  and  if  the  master  will  superintend  and  pro- 
vide for  the  slave  in  sickness,  in  health,  infancy 
and  old  aijc — if  he  will  feed  and  clothe,  and  house 
him  properly,  guard  his  morals,  and  treat  him 
kindly  and  humanely,  he  will  make  his  slaves 
happy  and  profitable,  and  be  himself  a  worthy, 
useful  and  conscientious  man. 


SLAVES   AVITHOUT   MASTERS.  127 


GkHAPTER    X. 

OUR    BEST    WITNESSES    AND    MASTERS    IN    THE    ART 
OF  AVAR. 

I  think  feiv  ■n'orth  damnation,  save  their  kings  ; 
And  these  but  as  a  kind  of  quit-rent,  to 
Assert  my  right  as  lord. 

Vision  of  Judgment. 

We  intend  tliis  chapter  as  our  trump  card,  and 
liaA^e  kept  it  in  reserve,  because  it  is  rash  to  "lead 
trumps."  We  could  produce  a  cloud  of  witnesses, 
but  should  only  protract  the  trial  thereby.  We 
call  into  court  Horace  Greely,  Wm.  Goodell,  Gerrit 
Smith,  Wm.  Lloyd  Garrison,  and  Stephen  Pearle 
AndrcAvs,  and  propose  to  prove  by  them  (the  actual 
leaders  and  faithful  exponents  of  abolition,)  that 
their  object,  and  that  of  their  entire  party,  is  not 
only  to  abolish  Southern  slavery,  but  to  abolish 
also,  or  greatly  to  modify,  the  relations  of  husband 
and  Avife,  parent  and  child,  the  institution  of  pri- 
vate property  of  all  kinds,  but  especially  separate 
OAvnership  of  lands,  and  the  institution  of  Christian 
churches  as  noAV  existing  in  America.  We  further 
charge,  that  Avhilst  actively  engaged  in  attempts 
to  abolish  Southern  slavery,  they  are  busy,  Avith 
equal  activity  and  more  promise  of  success,  in  at- 


128  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

tempts    to    upset    and  rc-organize    society    at    the 
North. 

In  convening  these  gentlemen  as  witnesses,  and 
also  arraigning  them  on  trial,  \^  are  actuated  by 
no  feelings  of  personal  ill  Avill  or  disrespect.  We 
admire  them  all,  and  have  had  kindly  intercourse 
and  correspondence  A>ith  some  of  them.  They  are 
historical  characters,  who  Avould  seek  notoriety  in 
order  to  further  their  schemes  of  setting  the  world 
to  rights.  We  have  no  doubt  of  their  sincere  phi- 
lanthropy, and  as  little  doubt,  that  they  are  only 
"paving  hell  with  good  intentions."  We  speak 
figuratively.  We  shall  try  their  cause  in  the  most 
calm  and  judicial  temper.  We  would  address  each 
of  them  in  language  borrowed  from  Lord  Byron : 

Wl.y, 
My  good  old  friend,  for  such  I  deem  you, 
Though  our  different  parties  make  us  fight  so  shy, 
I  ne'er  mistake  you  for  a,  personal  foe  ; 
Our  diflFerence  is.  political,  and  I 
Trust  that  whatever  may  occur, 
You  know  my  great  respect  for  you,  and  this 
Makes  me  regret  whatever  you  do  amiss. 

Indeed,  we  should'  be  ungrateful  and  discour- 
teous  in  the  extreme,  if  we  did  not  entertain  kindly 
remembrance  and  make  gentlemanly  return  for  the 
generous  reception  and  treatment  w^e  received,  es- 
pecially from  leading,  abolitionists,  when  we  went 
north  to  personate   Satan  by   defending  Slavery. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        129 

Though  none  agi'eecl  with  us,  none  were  made  con- 
verts by  us : 

Yet  still  betvreen  his  darkness  and  his  brightness, 
There  passed  a  mutual  glance  of  great  politeness. 

We  will  first  call  Mr.  Wm.  Goodell  to  the  stand. 
His  position  as  one  of  the  most  active  leaders  of 
the  Gerrit  Smith  or  Syracuse  wing  of  abolition, 
would  entitle  his  admissions  and  assertions  of  the 
failure  of  his  own  society  to  the  greatest  credence, 
since  such  admissions  and  assertions  weaken  his  as- 
saults on  the  South,  and  must  be  reluctantly  drawn 
from  him  ;  but,  independent  of  his  peculiar  posi- 
tion, his  hicrh  character  as  a  man,  and  his  distinction 
as  an  author,  should  enlist  attention  and  command 
respect  for  what  he  says.  In  his  Democracy  of 
Christianity,  vol.  2d,  page  107,  he  thus  writes : 

"  Aud  what  is  this  pride  of  "wealth,  after  all,  growing 
up  into  the  aristocracy  of  wealth,  the  usurpations  of 
wealth,  the  oppressions  of  wealth,  grinding  the  masses  of 
humanity  into  the  dust  to-day,  throughout  our  modern 
Christendom,  in  the  middle  of  our  nineteenth  century 
civilization  and  progress,  with  a  hoof  more  flinty,  more 
swinish,  and  more  murderous  (capitals  ours)  than  that 
of  semi-barbarous  feudalism  in  its  bloodiest  days." 

He  understands  the  intolerable  exploitation  of 
capital  better  than  we  do,  for  he  lives  in  a  country 
where  slavery  has  not  stepped  in  to  shield  the  la- 


130  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

borer.  He,  the  laborer,  is  a  "slave  without  a  mas- 
ter," and    his  oppressors,    "cannibals    all." 

Mr.  G's.  book  appears  to  us  to  carry  the  doctrine 
of  human  ecjuality  to  a  length  utterly  inconsistent 
"with  the  power  and  control  -svhich  ordinary  Chris- 
tian marriage  gives  to  the  husband  over  the  wife; 
yet  he  assures  us  he  is  the  unflinching  friend  of 
Christian  marriage.  The  purity  of  his  sentiments 
revolt  at  the  conclusions  to  which  his  abstract  doc- 
trines inevitably  lead.  Yet  his  idea  of  Christian 
marriage  may  differ,  so  far  as  the  power  of  the  hus- 
band is  concerned,  widely  from  ours.  Wc  are  sure 
he  would  do  nothing,  designedly,  to  impair  the 
purity  and  sacredness  of  the  relation. 

Mr.  G.  is  a  Christian  socialist,  and  looks  to  a  prox- 
imate millenium  to  rectify  the  false  relations  of  men 
and  property,  in  his  own  society,  and  to  the  arm  of 
the  Federal  Government  to  set  things  right  in  the 
South.  Why  not  leave  all  to  Providence,  especially 
since  the  right  of  tlie  Government  to  abolish  South- 
ern slavery  is  denied  by  all  respectable  authority 
outside  of  abolition;  and  also  by  the  Garrisonians, 
who  are  the  most  thorough-going  of  all  abolitionists, 
and  of  all  disorganizers.  Mr.  Goodell's  plan  of 
"rectifying  human  relations"  at  the  North,  by  a 
millennium,  is  quite  as  common  as  that  of  Mr. 
Greely,  AndrcAvs  and  Owen,  each  of  whom  has  dis- 
covered a  new  social  science  that  they  are  sure  will 
fit  the  world,  because  it  wont  fit  a  village. 


i 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  131 

We  really  think  that  a  man  of  Mr.  Gooclell's 
nice  sense  of  justice  and  propriety,  should  have 
hesitated  long  ere  he  invoked  a  God  to  do  that 
which  he  would  be  ashamed  to  do  himself.  If  it 
be  wrong  to  strip  the  rich  of  their  possessions,  why 
hope  or  expect  that  God  will  perpetrate  a  wrong  at 
which  human  conscience  revolts,  when  it  is  pro- 
posed to  be  done  by  human  agency. 

After  an  elaborate  argument,  to  prove  the  advent 
of  a  millennial  state  of  society,  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  Christianity,  Mr.  Goodell,  on  page 
510,  vol.  II,  of  his  Democracy  of  Christianity, 
thus  sums  up  and  concludes: 

"  Glance  over,  again,  the  items  included  in  these  pre- 
dictions : — The  general  and  permanent  prevalence  of 
peace,— the  result  of  justice,  equity,  security,  and  the 
actual  possession,  [italics  his]  by  each  and  every  one  of 
^his  vine  and  fig  tree' — that  is,  of  soil  sufficient  to  pro- 
duce the  needful  fruits  of  the  earth,  or,  in  some  way,  a 
supply  for  his  physical  wants. 

"  Add  to  this,  the  general  diflFusion  and  great  increase 
of  knowledge,  especially  moral  and  religious  knowledge, 
which  includes  the  knowledge  of  social  relations,  duties 
and  rights, — the  knowledge  that  implies  'wisdom,'  and 
that  wisdom  which  begins  with  Hhe  fear  of  the  Lord.' 
Next  the  application  of  all  this  knowledge,  wisdom  and 
fear  of  the  Lord,  to  the  concerns  of  civil  government,  in- 
somuch that '  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  shall  become  the 
kingdoms  of  Christ,'  and  the  dominion  be  given  to  The 


132  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

People,  who  at  that  period,  shall  have  become  purified 
and  instructed  by  him, — who  shall  all  be  righteous,  who 
'shall  all  know  the  Lord,  from  the  least  to  the  greatest,' 
and  even  'the  feeble  among  them  shall  be  as  David.' 
To  this,  add  general  contentment  and  enjoyment,  facili- 
ties of  social  and  international  intercourse,  the  general 
prevalence  of  the  spirit  of  benevolence  and  brotherly 
love,  and  the  absence  of  those  maddening  and  satanic 
temptations,  delusions  and  prejudices,  that  have  so  long 
deceived,  enslaved  and  embroiled  the  nations; — all  this 
cemented  by  the  true  spiritual  worship,  protection  and 
love  of  the  Common  Father  of  all  men. 

"Is  any  thing  wanting  to  complete  the  picture,  and  to 
ratify  the  assurance  of  a  state  of  liberty,  equality,  com- 
mon brotherhood,  common  interests,  common  sympathy, 
and  common  participaucy  in  social  rights,  immunities, 
privileges  and  arrangements?  Must  we  need  be  told  in 
addition  to  all  this,  that  'the  thrones  of  despotism  shall 
be  cast  down,'  that- the  'beast'  of  civil  and  ecclesiastical 
tyranny  and  usurpation,  the  persecutor  'of  the  holy  apos- 
tles and  people,'  shall  be  given  'to  the  burning  flames,' 
that  the  yoke  of  domination  'shall  be  dashed  into  pieces 
as  a  potter's  vessel,'  that  'subversion'  shall  tread  upon 
the  heels  of  subversion,  and  one  despotism  overturn  an- 
other, till  He,  'whose  right  it  is,  shall  rule.'  That  the 
masses  shall  be  elevated,  the  exclusives  brought  low,  that 
the  , lofty'  shall  be  'humbled,'  and  the  'haughty  bowed 
down' — in  such  a  period  of  general  possession,  general 
justice,  equality  and  contentment  as  has  been  already  and 
previously  described^" 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  133 

Now,  Mr.  Goodcll  deplores  tliat  the  condition  of 
his  society  is  so  bad,  that  it  becomes  necessary  to 
npset  and  reverse  it  by  a  millennium.  Is  not  this, 
considering  his  high  position  and  authority,  strong 
evidence  to  prove  "the  failure  of  Free  Society." 
We  should  add,  that  his  "whole  book  teems  with  evi- 
dence of  his  uncompromising  hostility  to  existing 
Church  institutions,  and  the  existing  Priesthood, 
as  abuses  and  interpolations  that  have  been  en- 
grafted improperly  on  Christianity.  He  obviously 
belongs,  in  faith,  to  those  early  Christians,  who  re- 
sembled the  Essenes  in  their  social  relations,  and 
who  daily  expected  the  advent  of  the  millennium. 
Their  error  in  the  last  respect,  shows  that  it  is  the 
Bible,  and  not  their  construction  of  it,  that  should 
be  our  rule  of  faith  and  guide  of  conduct. 

The  next  witness  we  call  up,  is  Gerrit  Smith,  a 
man  who  has  a  national  reputation  as  an  orator,  a 
philanthropist  and  a  gentleman ;  who  writes  better 
than  he  speaks,  and  whose  active  charity  and  be- 
nevolence are  only  exceeded  in  the  greatness  of 
their  amount  by  the  grossness  of  their  misapplica- 
tion. He  is  a  zealous  Christian,  yet  edits,  or  did 
edit,  the  Progressive  Christian,  which  proposed  to 
abolish  Christianity  as  now  understood.  He  builds 
churches  to  keep  out  the  clergy,  and  heads  Chris- 
tian conventions  to  put  down  Christian  institutions, 
and  agrees  with  Wendell  Phillips,  that  the  pulpit  of 


134  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

the  North  stands  iu  the  wav  of  reform — et  delenda 
est  Carthago — the  pulpit  shoukl  be  destroyed ! 

Like  JMr.  Goodell,  he  seems  to  look  to  an  ap- 
proaehing  milleniiim.  ]>ut  he  is  a  man  of  restless 
activity  and  energy,  and  of  incalculable  daring,  and 
would  put  his  shoulder  to  the  Avheel,  and  inau- 
gurate the  millenium  at  once.  He  assumes  the  re- 
sponsibility ;  declares  continually  in  speeches,  lec- 
tures and  essays,  that  land  monopoly  is  an  intoler- 
able evil ;  that  lands  should  he  as  common  and  as 
free  for  use  to  all,  as  air  and  water  ;  and  proposes 
to  divide  them  at  once.  lie  is  one  of  the  largest 
owners  of  real  estate  at  the  North,  and  yet  the 
most  uncompromising  agrarian  in  the  world.  Ilis 
disinterestedness  is  only  exceeded  by  his  rashness 
and  destructivencss : 

"The  niildest-uianncr'd  man, 
That  ever  cut  a  throat  or  scuttled  ship." 

Ilis  amiableness  of  disposition  and  evenness  of 
temper  never  desert  him,  because  he  has  not  to 
"screw  his  courage  to  the  sticking-place."  'Tis 
always  there.  The  "  red  right  arm  of  Thundering 
Jove"  could  not  shake  his  tenacity  of  purpose;  and, 
in  a  case  of  conscience,  he  would  let  the  world  or 
the  Union  slide  with  e([ual  equanimity : 

"Si  fractus  illabitur  orbis, 
Iiiipavidnra  forient  ruinoe!" 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        135 

lie  gives  a  forty  thousand  or  so  to  Kansas  emi- 
grants from  the  North,  because,  as  a  gentleman,  he 
feels  it  his  duty  to  stick  to  his  country,  right  or 
Avrong ;  and  abolitionists  are  his  country.  His 
gross  eccentricities  and  intellectual  aberrations  are 
but  the  natural  out-growth  of  the  social  system 
Avhich  surrounds  him,  and  which  reminds  him  and 
every  other  ingenuous  and  candid  mind, 

"That  ■whateTer  is,  is  wro7iff .'" 

He  is  only  seemingly  eccentric  and  erratic.  He 
feels  the  difficulty  of  disposing  of  his  immense 
"wealth,  without  making  it  an  engine  of  oppression 
and  exaction.  He  understands  the  theory  of  capi- 
tal and  labor,  as  his  speeches  show ; — knows  that 
labor  produces  every  thing,  and  that  capital  is  the 
whip  that  forces  it  to  work,  and  also  the  exploitator 
that  robs  it  of  most  of  the  proceeds  of  its  industry. 
"La  propriety  c'est  le  vol!"  he  sees  is  true,  save  in 
the  impurity  of  motive,  which  it  seems  to  attribute 
to  its  owners.  If  he  endows  colleges,  or  gives  his 
money  in  large  sums  to  individuals,  in  the  one  case 
it  is  used  to  rear  up  exploitators,  who  rob  labor  by 
professional  skill ;  and  in  the  other,  to  those  who 
use  it  at  once  as  an  engine  of  exaction  and  oppres- 
sion. If  he  gives  it  in  smaller  sums  to  the  poor,  he 
is  generally  giving  to  the  idle  the  labor  of  the  in- 
dustrious, and  offering  a  premium  to  continued  idle- 


136  CANNIBALS   ALL;     OR, 

ncss  ;  for  lie  can  neither  control  the  coneluct  nor  ex- 
penditure of  his  beneficiaries.  He  is  too  good,  and 
too  proud,  to  spend  his  income  in  pomp  and  luxury. 
Too  good  thus  to  Avaste  the  proceeds  of  labor,  (as 
all  public  or  private  luxury  does,)  and  thus  increase 
the  burdens  of  the  working  class.  Too  proud  to 
derive  reflected  importance  and  standing  from  ex- 
traneous glitter  and  costly  show  and  equipage.  He 
has  (no  doubt,  in  vain,)  attempted  to  ameliorate  the 
condition  of  a  great  many  slaves,  by  purchasing 
them  and  emancipating  them.  Could  he  retain 
them  as  slaves,  he  might  see  that  his  charity  was 
not  misapplied,  by  educating  them  and  controlling 
their  conduct*.  To  us,  it  occurs  that  a  large  capital 
can  only  be  safely  invested  in  slaves  and  lands,  if 
the  owner  Avishes  to  be  sure  that  it  shall  not  -be 
used  as  an  engine  of  oppression,  or  as  a  persuasive 
to  idleness  and  dissipation. 

We  should  do  injustice  to  Mr.  Smith  were  we  not 
to  add,  that  he  is  quite  as  busy  in  abducting  ne- 
groes as  in  buying  them.  The  underground  rail- 
road is  one  of  his  favorite  pets  and  beneficiaries. 
His  restless  energy  is  not  satisfied  Avith  the  slow 
proceedings  of  this  road,  and  hence  he  buys  ne- 
groes, as  well  as  aids  the  abducting  of  them.  He 
has  been  sevcrcl}^  censured  for  buying  them,  by 
those  Avhom  he  supplies  Avith  the  means  to  steal 
them,  or  Avhom  he  rescues  from  the  fangs  of  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  137 

law,  "when  caught  in  abortive  efforts  to  abduct 
them. 

He  had  the  education  and  has  the  feelings  and 
bearing  of  the  Southerner.  His  father  owned  slaves, 
and  a. territory  full  of  Indians,  and  he  was  reared 
as  playmate  and  prince  in  their  midst;  hence,  he 
has  the  proud  humility  of  the  Southerner,  not  the 
exacting  and  supercilious  arrogance  of  the  North- 
erner. He  does  not  demand  deference  and  respect, 
because  it  has,  from  boyhood,  been  yielded  to  him, 
as  his  due,  by  admitted  inferiors. 

The  value  of  his  testimony,  establishing,  if  true, 
the  utter  and  entire  failure  of  free  society,  cannot 
be  over  estimated.  He  is  learned,  candid,  honest, 
well-informed,  and  has  always  lived  in  free  society. 
Its  subversion,  which  he  proposes,  and  actively  at- 
tempts, would  strip  him  of  millions  of  wealth.  He 
is  the  leading  champion  of  slave  abolition,  and,  by 
admitting  the  failure  of  free  society,  blunts  and 
neutralizes  all  his  arguments  against  slavery.  In 
every  way,  then,  pride  of  opinion,  seeming  consist- 
ency, and  pecuniary  ii'ftferest,  tempt  him  to  extol, 
not  to  condemn  free  society.  It  is  true,  he  thinks 
slavery  also  a  failure,  and  a  greater  failure ;  but  he 
knows  little  practically  about  slave  society,  and 
cannot  admit  for  us,  although  he  may  for  himself 
and  his  section. — En  passant,  we  would  say  to  him, 
that  air  and  water  are  the  subjects  of  more  exclu- 
sive appropriation  in  free  society  than  land. — He  is 


138  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

a  lawyer,  and  knows  that  tlie  ownership  of  the  soil 
carries  with  it  the  ownership  of  every  tiling,  ad 
inferos,  et  usque  ad  coclum.  In  fact,  in  cities 
■where  the  poor  most  do  congregate,  their  food  and 
raiment  differ  not  half  so  much  from  that  of  the 
rich,  as  their  enjoyment  of  pure  air  and  water. 
Men  must  get  a  place  to  breathe  and  drink  from ; 
and  all  places  arc  appropriated. 

Yes,  Mr.  Smith,  you  are  vainly  trying  to  grasp 
The  Right!  The  Right  is  connected  with,  affected 
by,  and  aff'ccts  all  the  Past,  all  the  Present,  and  all 
the  Future.  God  knows  the  Right — man  only  the 
Expedient. 

Our  next  witness  is  Horace  Grcely,  Editor  of  the 
Tribune,  and  Napoleon  of  the  Press,  llis  first  dis- 
tinction was  won  by  his  espousing  and  elaborately 
propagating  the  Social  Philosophy  of  Charles  Casi- 
mir  Fourier.  This  he  did,  some  twenty  years 
since,  in  a  long  controversy  with  the  Courier  & 
Enquirer :  the  latter  paper  sustaining  the  conserv- 
ative side.  The  correspondence  was  afterwards 
published  in  book  form,  an#we  regret  that  we  have 
not  been  able  to  possess  ourselves  of  a  copy.  The 
whole  edition,  we  learn,  was  burnt  at  the  Harpers. 
Consigned  by  Providence,  not  by  a  human  Censor, 
to  the  flames.  Should  we  misrepresent  our  witness, 
it  will  be  because  we  have  tried  in  vain  to  get  this 
book.  We  think  he  was  the  first,  in  America,  to 
assert,  and  maintain  by  arguments  and  proofs,  the 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  139 

inadequacy  and  injustice  of  the  whole  social  and 
governmental  organization  at  the  North.  He,  not 
ourselves,  is  the  American  author  of  the  theory  of 
the  Failure  of  Free  Society.  His  remedies,  though 
not  as  radical-  and  scientific  as  those  of  Proudhon 
and  Mr.  Andrews,  did  very  well  for  a  beginning. 
He,  we  think,  proposed  at  once  to  coop  mankind  up 
in  Phalansteries,  where,  in  a  few  generations,  all  the 
distinctions  of  separate  property,  and  of  separate 
wives  and  children,  would  be  obliterated  and  lost, 
and  society  would  gradually  and  gently  be  fused 
and  crystalized  into  a  system  of  pure  and  perfect 
Communism.  The  Tribune  has  to  minister  to  a 
variety  of  tastes,  all  agreeing  in  their  destructive 
tendencies,  but  differing  widely  as  to  the  manner  in 
which  they  shall  attain  their  conclusions ;  hence,  it 
is  hard  to  deduce  any  well  defined  system  of  phi- 
losophy from  its  columns.  Mr.  Andrews  intimates, 
that  our  witness  is  no  philosopher  at  all.  Be  it  so. 
Yet  all  must  admit  that  no  man  of  the  age  has  the 
organ  or  faculty  of  Destructiveness  so  fully  devel- 
oped. The  Tribune  has  been,  from  the  time  of  the 
controversy  of  which  we  have  spoken,  to  the  pre- 
sent day,  the  great  Organ  of  Socialism,  of  Free 
Love,  and  of  all  the  other  isms  which  propose  to 
overthrow  and  rebuild  society  and  government,  or 
to  dispense  with  them  altogether.  Steadily  pursu- 
ing this  destructive  course,  the  Tribune  has  for 
years  become  the  most  popular  paper  in  the  North, 


140  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

and,  'tis  said,  has  more  readers  in  Europe  and 
America  than  any  paper  in  the  Avorhl ;  and  yet  its 
only  peculiar  thought,  its  Avhole  intellectual,  moral, 
social  and  political  stock  in  trade,  consists  of  the 
one  idea,  variously  expressed,  illustrated  and  en- 
forced, "The  Failure  of  Free  Society;"  or,  as 
Carlyle  phrases  it,  "  We  must  have  a  new  world,  if 
we  are  to  have  any  world  at  all." 

What  a  striking  illustration  of  our  theory,  that 
"a  mere  verbal  formula  often  distinguishes  a  truism 
from  a  paradox."  We  assert  a  theory  bluntly  and 
plainly,  and  attempt  to  prove  it  by  facts  and  argu- 
ments, and  the  world  is  ready  to  exclaim,  "  Oh, 
what  shocking  heresy."  Mr.  Greely,  for  twenty 
years,  maintains  the  same  theory,  in  different  lan- 
guage, and  elicits  the  admiration  and  gratitude  of 
the  world.  Oh,  Le  Pauvre  Peuple !  how  long  will 
it  permit  its  flatterers  to  deceive  and  betray  it  ? 
Mr.  Greely  and  ourselves  agree  in  our  destructive 
philosophy,  but  arc  wide  asunder  as  the  poles  in 
what  is  constructive.  Each  proposes  to  protect  the 
weak.  He  promises  "protection  without  control  or 
abridgment  of  liberty."  We  tell  those  who  ask  for 
or  require  protection  and  support,  that  "they  must 
submit  to  be  controlled,  for  that  the  price  of  secu- 
rity has  ever  been,  and  ever  will  be,  the  loss  of 
liberty." 

The  popularity  ^f  the  Tribune  shews  that  the 
world  is  prepared  to  upset  existing  social   systems. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  141 

When  that  is  clone,  it  will  have  to  choose  between 
Free  Love  and  Slavery  ;  between  more  of  govern- 
ment and  no  government.  We  think,  like  Carlyle, 
more  of  government  is  needed.  We,  too,  are  a 
Socialist,  (for  free  society,)  but  we  would  screw  up 
the  strings  of  society,  not  further  relax  them,  much 
less  cut  them  "  sheer  asunder  !  " 

We  wish  to  display  the  truth,  and  nothing  but 
truth,  to  the  public,  on  the  subjects  of  Abolition 
and  Socialism  ;  and,  for  fear  of  misrepresentation, 
have  written  letters  to  Mr.  Greely  and  Mr.  Garri- 
son, copies  of  which  we  shall  append  to  this  chap- 
ter. Should  they  be  silent,  the  letters  will  at  least 
show  our  solicitude  to  arrive  at  truth. 

We  have  written  enough  about  Mr.  Andrews,  and 
quoted  enough  from  his  book  already,  to  show  that 
he  is  the  great  philosopher  of  his  party,  and  the 
comprehensive  and  truthful  expositor  of  its  doc- 
trines, its  tendencies,  and  ultimate  results.  His 
co-laborers,  less  scientific  and  far-sighted  than  he, 
might  be  ready  to  exclaim,  on  reading  his  book, 
"  Thinkest  thou  thy  servant  a  dog,  that  he  shall  do 
this  thing!"  But  Mr.  Andrews  is  right.  To  this 
complexion  must  they  come  at  last.  A  plunge  into 
the  soft  and  sensual  waters  of  the  lake  of  Free 
Love — then  a  sudden  and  violent  exit  into  the  keen 
and  shivering  atmosphere  of  despotism. 

AVe  know  less  of  Mr.  Garrison  than  of  either  of 
the  other  gentlemen.     He  heads  the  extreme  wing 


142  CANNIBALS   ALL;     OR, 

of  tli3  Socialist,  Infidel,  Woman's-Riglit,  Agrarian 
and  Abolition  party,  "who  are  called  Garrisonians. 
He  edits  the  Liberator,  Avhich  is  conducted  with  an 
ability  worthy  of  a  better  cause.  He  and  his  fol- 
lowers seem  to  admit  that  the  Bible  and  the  Con- 
stitution reco^'uizc  and  guarantee  Slavery,  and 
therefore  denounce  both,  and  propose  disunion  and 
no  priests  or  churches,  as  measures  to  attain  aboli- 
tion. Mr.  Garrison  usually  presides  at  their  meet- 
ings, and  we  infer,  in  part,  their  principles  and 
doctrines,  from  the  materials  that  compose  those 
meetings.  A  Wise-Woman  will  rise  and  utter  a 
philipic  against  Marriage,  the  Bible,  and  the  Con- 
stitution,— and  will  be  followed  by  negro  Remond, 
who  "spits  upon  Washington,"  and  complains  of 
the  invidious  distinction  of  calling  whites  Anglo- 
Saxons,  and  negroes  Africans.  And  now,  Phillips 
arises, 

"ArmeJ  with  Lell-flamcs  and  fui'y," 

and  gently  begins,  in  tones  more  dulcet,  and  with 
action  more  graceful  than  Belial,  to 

"Pour  the  sweet  milk  of  concord  into  hell! 
Uproar  tlie  universal  peace — 
Destroy  all  unity  on  earth." 

Then  Mr.  Parker  will  edify  the  meeting  by  stirring 
up  to  bloody  deeds  in  Kansas  or  in  Boston — in 
which,  as  becomes  his  cloth,  he  takes  no  part — and 
ends    by  denouncing    things    in    general,    and    the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  143 

churches  and  parsons  in  particular.  And,  proba- 
bly, the  whole  will  conclude  with  a  general  indul- 
gence and  remission  of  sins,  from  Mr.  Andrews, 
who  assumes,  for  the  nonce,  the  character  of  Fa- 
ther Confessor,  and  assures  the  tender  conscience 
that  it  is  right  and  incumbent  to  take  the  oath  to 
sustain  the  Constitution,  with  the  deliberate  purpose 
of  violating  it,  because  such  oaths  are  taken  under 
moral  duress.  These  Garrisonians  are  as  intel- 
lectual men  as  any  in  the  nation.  They  lead  the 
Black  Republican  party,  and  control  the  politi- 
cians. Yet  are  they  deadly  enemies  of  Northern 
as  well  as  of  Southern  institutions. 

Now,  gentlemen,  all  of  you  are  philosophers,  and 
most  zealous  philanthropists,  and  have  for  years 
been  roaring,  at  the  top  of  your  voice,  to  the  Oi 
Polloi  rats,  that  the  old  crazy  edifice  of  society,  in. 
which  they  live,  is  no  longer  fit  for  human  dwelling, 
and  is  imminently  dangerous.  The  rats  have  taken 
you  at  your  word,  and  are  rushing  headlong,  with 
the  haste  and  panic  of  a  "sauve  que  pent,"  into 
every  hole  that  promises  shelter — into  "  any  port 
in  a  storm."  Some  join  the  Rappists  and  Shakers, 
thousands  find  a  temporary  shelter  in  Mr.  Greely's 
Fourierite  Phalansteries ;  many  more  follow  Mr. 
Andrews  to  Trialville,  to  villages  in  the  far  West, 
or  to  Modern  Times ;  and  a  select  few  to  the  sa- 
loons of  Free   Love;    and   hundreds   of    thousands 


144  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

find  sliclter  Nvitli  Bri^rliuni  Young,  in  Utah;  ■whilst 
others,  siill  more  frightened,  go  to  consult  the  Spir- 
itual Telegraph,  that  raps  hourly  at  the  doors  of 
heaven  and  of  hell,  or  (piictly  put  on  their  ascen- 
sion robes  to  accompany  Parson  Miller  in  his  up- 
ward llight.  But  the  greater  number  arc  waiting 
(very  impatiently)  for  Mr.  Andrews  to  establish  his 
New  and  Better  World,  or  for  ~Sh\  Garrison  and 
Mr.  Goodell  to  inaugurate  their  Millenium. 

Why,  Gentlemen  I  none  of  these  worse  than  Cas- 
sandra vaticinations — ^vhy  none  of  this  panic,  ter- 
ror, confusion  and  flight,  in  Slave  Society?  Are 
we  suffering,  and  yet  contented  ?  Is  our  house 
tumblino;  about  our  heads,  and  we  sittino;  in  con- 
scious  security  amidst  the  impending  ruin  ?  No  ! 
No !  Our  edifice  is  one  that  never  did  fall,  and 
never  will  fall ;  for  Nature's  plastic  hand  reared  it, 
supports  it,  and  Avill  forever  sustain  it. 

Have  we  not  shewn,  in  this  single  chapter,  that 
the  North  has  as  much  to  apprehend  from  abolition 
as  the  South,  and  that  it  is  time  for  conservatives 
every  where  to  unite  in  efforts  to  suppress  and  ex- 
tinguish it? 

We  add  hereto  a  letter  we  addressed  to  the  public 
as  to  "  Our  Trip  to  the  North,"  and  our  reply  to  a 
Mr,  llogeboom,  a  New  York  abolitionist.  Also, 
our  letters  to  Garrison  and  Greely.  We  do  this  to 
shew  that  we  intend  not  to  mislead,  misrepresent  or 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  145 

deceive.  In  truth,  the  leading  Abolitionists  are 
our  pets  and  favorites.  We  have  an  inveterate  and 
perverse  penchant  of  finding  out  good  qualities  in 
bad  fellows.  Robespierre  and  Milton's  Satan  are 
our  particular  friends. 


3IY    TRIP   TO    THE    NORTH. 

To  the  Editors  of  the  Enquirer: 

Gentlemen, — I  hesitated  long  before  resolving  to 
address  you  this  letter.  I  feel  that  I  shall  be  amenable 
to  the  charge  of  egotism ;  but  I  have  written  a  book,  in 
which  I  undertake  to  defend  and  justify  Slavery,  and  to 
advise  the  South  as  to  its  future  policy.  In  that  I  am 
egotistical,  as  every  one  is  who  writes  a  book.  I  have 
'^  stepped  in  so  far,  that  returning  were  more  tedious 
than  go  o'er."  I  will  not  do  things  by  halves.  When  I 
wrote  that  book,  I  believed  that  Government,  Law,  Reli- 
gion, and  Marriage,  were  victims  bound  and  filleted  for 
sacrifice  by  Northern  abolition.  What  was  then  matter 
of  doubtful  opinion,  inference  and  speculation,  has  be- 
come, since  my  trip  to  the  North,  subject  of  fixed  faith 
and  conviction.  I  enjoyed  the  warm  and  elegant  hospi- 
tality of  some  of  the  Liberty  party  of  the  North.  I  was 
in  social  intercourse  with  many  of  them.  I  have  re- 
ceived many  pamphlets,  books  and  speeches  from  them. 
I  have  no  private  confidences  to  betray,  because  I  heard 
no  secrets.  This  party  is  conscientious,  believes  itself 
right,  and  courts  discussion  and  notoriety.  I,  besides, 
7 


146  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

conversed  freely  with  strangers,  in  public  conveyances  and 
at  hotels.  1  think,  with  my  previous  study  on  the  sub- 
ject of  Slavery  and  Abolition,  I  may  be  able  ro  make 
some  useful  suggestions  to  the  South  and  the  North. 

It  seemed  to  me,  that  in  attempting  to  prove  "  Free 
Society  a  failure,"  in  my  lecture  at  New  Haven,  I  was 
"  but  carrying  coals  to  New  Castle,"  The  Liberty  party, 
at  least,  discovered  that  long  before  I  did,  and  are  as 
intent  on  subverting  and  re-constructing  society  at  home, 
as  on  abolishing  slavery  with  us.  A  part  of  them,  I  will 
not  undertake  to  say  how  large  a  portion,  are  infidels, 
who  find  the  Bible  no  impediment  to  their  schemes  of 
social  reform,  because  they  assert  that  it  is  false.  This 
wing  of  the  Liberty  party  is  in  daily  expectation  of  dis- 
covering a  new  Social  Science,  that  will  remedy  all  the 
ills  that  human  flesh  is  heir  to.  They  belong  to  the 
schools  of  Owen,  Louis  Blanc,  Fourier,  Comte,  and  the 
German  and  French  Socialists  and  Communists.  The 
other  wing,  and  probably  the  most  numerous  wing  of  the 
party,  is  composed  of  the  Millenial  Christians — men 
who  expect  Christ,  either  in  the  flesh  or  in  the  spirit, 
soon  to  reign  on  earth ;  the  lion  to  lie  down  with  the 
lamb ;  every  man  to  sit  down  under  his  own  vine  and  fig 
tree;  all  to  have  an  interest  in  lands;  marrying  and 
giving  in  marriage  to  cease;  war  to  be  abolished,  and 
peace  and  good  will  to  reign  among  men.  They  are  as 
intent  on  aboli.shing  all  Church  government  and  author- 
ity, as  the  infidels.  They  would,  equally  with  them, 
trample  on  all  law  and  government,  because  "liberty  is," 
say  they,  "an  inalienable  right,"  and  law,  religion,  and 
government    continue    to   protect    slavery.      Marriage, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  147 

Christian  marriage,  wbich  requires  the  obedience  of  the 
wife,  is  slavery ;  and  they  would  modify  it,  or  destroy 
it.  Land  monopoly,  they  say,  gives  to  property  or 
capital  a  greater  power  over  labor  than  masters  have 
over  slaves ;  hence,  they  very  wisely  and  logically  con- 
clude, that  land,  like  air  and  water,  should  be  common 
property. 

The  Liberty  party  is  composed  of  very  able  men — of 
philosophers  and  philanthropists.  They  have  demon- 
strated, beyond  a  doubt,  that  slavery  is  necessary,  unless 
they  can  get  up  a  Millenium,  or  discover  a  new  Social 
Science.  The  increasing  crime  and  poverty  of  mankind, 
and  the  utter  failure  of  all  social  experiments  like  those 
of  Owen  and  others,  indicate  neither  the  advent  of  the 
one,  nor  the  discovery  of  the  other. 

This  Liberty  party  are  the  best  allies  of  the  South, 
because  they  admit,  and  continually  expose,  the  utter 
failure  of  Free  Society. 

One  of  the  most  distinguished  of  this  party  thus  writes 
to  Wendell  Phillips,  Esq. : 

"  I  cannot  refrain  from  expressing,  in  this  connection, 
my  grief  that  many  nboiitionists  have  allowed  their  faith 
in  the  Bible  to  be  shaken." 

In  my  short  trip  to  the  North,  I  was  struck  with  noth- 
ing so  much  as  the  avowed  infidelity  of  many,  and  the 
Christianity  melting  into  infidelty,  of  the  great  mas3 
of  the  balance  with  whom  I  conversed.  I  have  no  doubt, 
however,  that  although  such  a  state  of  things  is  too  com- 
mon at  the  North,  yet  my  peculiar  associations  made  the 
evil  appear  greater  than  it  really  is.  The  religious  and 
conservative,  like  the  lily  of  the  valley,  are  silent  and 


148  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

secluded.  As  a  specimen  of  this  religion  melting,  pa  I 
think,  into  iufidelit)',  I  will  give  another  extract  from  the 
letter  to  AVendell  Thillips  : 

''  You  have  been  much  censured  for  holding  that  the 
anti-slavery  cause  can  reach  success  only  over  the  ruins 
of  the  American  government  and  the  American  church. 
Nevertheless,  you  are  right.  The  religion  which  tole- 
rates— nay,  sanctifies — slavery,  must  necessarily  be  con- 
quered ere  the  devotees  and  dupes  of  that  religion  will 
suffer  slavery  to  be  abolished.  Again,  so  long  as  the 
actual  government  is  on  the  side  of  slavery,  the  bloodless 
abolition  of  slavery  is  impracticable." 

The  author  of  the  letter  from  which  I  quote,  and  Mr. 
Phillips  to  whom  it  is  addressed,  are  gentlemen,  scholars 
and  christians.  Thoy  are,  besides,  historical  characters. 
We  violate  no  privacy  in  holding  up  their  opinions  to 
pul)lic  view  and  general  criticism.  Is  their's  not  Chris- 
tianity melting  into  inlidelity?  I  have  lately  received  a 
book,  in  two  volumes,  entitled  "The  Democracy  of  Chris- 
tianity," from  its  author — William  Goodell  of  New  York, 
a  member  of  the  Liberty  Party.  The  author  evinces 
much  ability,  ingenuity  and  research.  He  is  one  of  the 
millenial  Christians — obviously  pious  and  sincere.  lie 
sees  no  exodus  from  the  appalling  evils  of  Free  Society, 
except  that  state  of  perfect  equality,  peace,  happiness 
and  security,  that  he,  like  the  men  of  Cromwell's  day, 
thinks  is  promised  and  predicted  in  the  Bible.  I  cite 
the  following  passage  from  the  conclusion  of  his  work  : 

"Glance  over  again  the  items  included  in  these  predic- 
tions : — The  general  and  permanent  prevalence  of  peace 
— the  result  of  justice,  equity,  security,  and  the  actual 
possession,  by  each  and  every  one,  of  'his  vine  and  fig 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS,  149 

tree/  i.  c.  of  soil  sufficient  to  produce  the  needful  fruits 
of  the  earth,  or  in  some  way,  a  supply  of  his  physical 
wants." 

If  this  state  of  things  ever  occur,  God  will  bring  it 
about  without  the  help  of  abolitionists. 

Wc  do  not  deem  it  necessary  to  quote  from  the  infidel 
agrarians  and  abolitionists,  because  their  splendid  pro- 
mises and  bloody  and  disastrous  failures,  have  been  mat- 
ters of  every  day's  history  and  of  every  day's  occurrence, 
from  the  times  of  Marat  and  the  guillotine  to  those  of 
Lamartine  and  Cavaignac. 

The  Proletariat  of  France,  the  nomadic  pauper  ban- 
ditti of  England,  the  starving  tenantry  of  Ireland,  the 
Lazzaroni  of  Italy,  and  the  half-savages  of  Hayti,  are 
the  admitted  results  of  practical  abolition.  But,  say  the 
Liberty  pai'ty,  abolition  has  stopped  half-way;  abolish 
churches,  law,  government,  marriage,  and  separate  prop- 
erty in  lands,  and  then  the  scheme  will  work  charmingly. 

Well,  possibly  it  will ;  but  as  we  are  very  happy,  com- 
fortable and  contented  in  slave  society,  suppose  you  try 
the  "■  experimentum  in  vile  corpus."  Begin  at  home, 
and  if  the  experiment  works  well,  we  of  the  South  will 
follow  your  example.  You  have  a  little  Eden  now  near 
Lake  Oneida.  Some  hundreds  of  Oneida  perfectionists, 
living  in  primitive  simplicity,  among  whom  there  is  no 
''marrying  or  giving  in  marriage,"  no  separate  property, 
all  things  enjoyed  in  common;  and  we  suppose,  neither 
priest  nor  officer  to  disturb  or  mar  the  harmony  of  mil- 
lenial  society.  "We  but  tell  ^le  tale  as  'twas  told  to 
us."  Does  it  work  well  ?  If  so,  why  not  form  all  your 
institutions  on  that  model  ? 


160  CANNIBALS   ALL;     OR, 

You  of  the  Liberty  party  seem  to  think  that  "pas- 
sional attraction"  and  "attractive  labor"  will  keep  all 
men  up  to  their  duties,  and  dispense  with  the  necessity 
of  Church  and  State,  Law  and  Keligion,  Priest  and  Offi- 
cer. You  think  you  follow  nature,  but  in  truth  you  are 
superficial  observers  of  nature.  Man,  it  is  true,  is  a 
social  and  gregarious  animal,  but  like  all  animals  of  that 
kind,  he  is,  by  nature,  law-making  and  law-abiding.  The 
ants  and  bees  are  ruled  by  despotic  and  exacting  govern- 
ments, and  by  laws  and  regulations,  wise  and  less 
changeable  than  those  of  the  Medes  and  Persians.  But 
man  is  not  only  a  law-making  animal,  but  a  religious  one 
also.  In  remitting  him  to  a  state  of  anarchy  and  infi- 
delity, you  would  not  remit  him  to  a  state  of  nature,  but 
one  of  continuous,  exterminating  warfare,  such  as  France 
witnessed  during  the  reign  of  terror. 

I  find,  Messrs.  Editors,  that  I  am  somewhat  wander- 
ing from  the  subject  with  which  I  commenced,  and  will 
conclude — for  the  present,  at  least. 

Very  respectfully,  your  ob't  serv't. 

G.  F." 

LETTER    TO    MR.  HOGEBOOM. 

Port  Royal,  Va.,  Jan.  14th,  1856. 

To  A.  IIoGEBOOM,  Esq.,  Sheds  Corners,  Madison  county,  N.  Y. 

Dear  Sir  : — Your  letter  reached  this  office  during  my 
absence  from  home.  I  embrace  the  earliest  opportunity 
of  replying  to  it,  because  I  rejoice  that  public  attention 
at  the  Xorth  may,  by  this  means,  be  excited  to  the  sub- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  151 

ject  of  my  book.  I  am  sure  I  slioukl  not  have  been 
honored  with  your  correspondence  had  you  read  the 
book  and  known  its  subject.  That  subject  is  the  "Fail- 
ure of  Free  Society.'^  You  have  only  i-ead  extracts 
from  it,  you  snj,  in  the  Northern  papers.  Those  papers 
will  be  slow  to  notice  the  facts,  authorities  and  admis- 
sions which  it  cites,  to  prove  the  failure  of  their  form  of 
society.  I  send  you  the  book  and  refer  you  particularly 
to  the  preface,  to  the  second  and  third  chapters,  and  to 
the  "summing  up"  in  the  concluding  chapter. 

If  this  does  not  satisfy  you  that  free  society  is  a  cruel 
failure,  read  the  history  of  the  English  Poor  laws,  and 
you  will  find  that  the  laboring  class  of  England  have, 
every  day  since  the  emancipation  of  the  villeins,  been  in 
a  worse  condition,  morally  and  physically,  than  any  slaves 
ever  were.  Read,  also,  two  articles,  the  one  in  the  North 
British  Review,  and  the  other  in  Blackwood  for  De- 
cember, depicting  the  demoralized  and  starving  condition 
of  the  whole  laboring  class  of  Great  Britain.  Read, 
also,  Carlyle's  Latter  Day  Pamphlets.  If  this  does  not 
convince  you  that  the  Little  Experiment,  (for  it  is  a 
very  little  one,  both  in  time  and  space,)  is  a  disastrous 
and  cruel  failure,  look  at  home !  How  comes  it  that 
your  distinguished  neighbor,  Gerrit  Smith,  proposes  to 
make  land  as  free  for  the  enjoyment  of  all  as  air  and 
water?  Confessedly,  because  the  despotism  of  capital 
over  labor  is  intolerable.  Confessedly,  because  your 
form  of  society  is  found  to  be  a  failure  in  practice  ! 
Why  does  another  distinguished  abolitionist,  Mr.  Good- 
ell,  of  New  York,  in  his  book,  on  the  Democracy  of 
Christianity,  declare,  that  wealth  now  is  more  cruel,  op- 


152  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

pressive  and  murderous,  than  Feudal  masters?  Why- 
does  Mr.  Greely  advocate  the  doctrines  of  Fourier,  and 
propose  to  subvert  your  society  and  reconstruct  it  from 
top  to  bottom,  making  a  sort  of  common  property  of  wo- 
men and  children,  as  well  as  of  lands  and  houses?  Why 
does,  much  your  ablest  philosopher,  .Stephen  Pearle  An- 
drews, propose  plans  of  reform  still  more  sweeping? 
And,  why  are  his  doctrines  popular  with  the  "  higher 
classes"  in  New  York?  Why,  in  fine,  are  the  larger 
number  of  the  abolitionists,  millenial  Christians,  in 
daily  expectation  of  the  advent  of  Christ,  who  is  to  di- 
vide all  property  equally,  and  give  to  each  one  his  ''vine 
and  fig  tree."  And  why  are  the  others.  Atheists,  like 
Owen  and  Fourier,  attempting  to  invent  new  and  better 
forms  of  society  ? 

Why  have  you  Bloomer's  and  Women's  Right's  men, 
and  strong-minded  women,  and  Mormons,  and  anti- 
renters,  and  "vote  myself  a  farm"  men,  Millerites,  and 
Spiritual  Rappers,  and  Shakers,  and  Widow  Wakeman- 
ites,  and  Agrarians,  and  Grahamites,  and  a  thousand 
other  superstitious  and  infidel  isms  at  the  North  ?  Why 
is  there  faith  in  nothing,  speculation  about  everything  ? 
Why  is  this  unsettled,  half  demented  state  of  the  hu- 
man mind  co-extensive  in  time  and  space,  with  free  so- 
ciety? Why  is  Western  Europe  now  starving?  and 
why  has  it  been  fighting  and  starving  for  seventy  years  ? 
Why  all  this,  except  that  free  society  is  a  failure  ?  Slave 
society  needs  no  defence  till  some  other  permanently 
practicable  form  of  society  has  been  discovered.  None 
such  has  been  discovered.  Nobody  at  the  North  who 
reads  my  book  will  attempt  to  reply  to  it ;  for  all  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  153 

learned  abolitionists   bad    unconsciously   discovered   and 
proclaimed   tbe  failure  of  free  society  long  before  I  did. 

I  am  indebted  for  tbe  bonor  of  your  correspondence, 
to  your  ignorance  of  wbat  my  book  contains.  I  reply 
tbrougb  tbe  Press,  because  I  intend  to  use  your  letter 
merely  as  an  occasion  to  cballenge  tbe  Nortb,  to  dispute 
or  deny  my  assertion  tbat  "  free  society  is  a  failure  !" 

In  conclusion,  I  propose  to  you,  and  tbrougb  you  to 
tbe  wbole  Nortb,  tbese  questions. 

Do  not  tbe  past  bistory  and  present  condition  of  Free 
Society  in  Western  Europe  (wbere  alone  tbe  experiment 
bas  been  fully  tried,)  prove  tbat  it  is  attended  with 
greater  evils,  moral  and  pbysical,  tban  Slave  Society  ? 

Do  not  tbe  late  writers  on  society  in  AVesleru  P]urope, 
and  in  our  free  States,  generally  admit  tbat  tbose  evils  are 
intolerable,  and  tbat  Free  Society  requires  total  subver- 
sion and  re-organization  ? 

Sbould  you  not,  tberefore,  abolish  your  form  of  society, 
and  adopt  ours,  until  Mr.  Greely,  or  Brigbam  Young,  or 
Mr.  Andrews,  or  Mr.  Goodell,  or  some  otber  socialist  of 
Europe  or  America,  invents  and  puts  into  successful 
practice,  a  social  organization  better  tban  either,  or  until 
tbe  millenium  does  actually  arrive  ? 

With  tbe  assurance  tbat  I  am  quite  as  intent  on  abol- 
ishing Free  Society,  as  you  are  on  abolishing  slavery,  and 
with  tbe  confidence  tbat  all  of  divine  authority,  and  al- 
most all  of  human  authority,  is  on  my  side,  I  remain, 
your  co-philanthropist,  and 

Obedient  servant, 

Geo.  Fitzhugh. 


154  CANNIBALS   ALL;     OR, 


LETTER    TO    MU.    GARRISON. 

Fort  RotjaJ,   Va.,  July  18,  1856. 

Dear  Sir — I  am  about  to  publish  a  work,  entitled 
"Cannibals  All;  or,  Slaves  Without  Masters."  I  shall, 
in  effect,  say,  in  the  course  of  my  argument,  that  every 
theoretical  abolitionist  at  the  North  is  a  Socialist  or  Com- 
munist, and  proposes  or  approves  radical  changes  in  the 
organization  of  society.  I  shall  cite  Mr.  Greely,  Mr. 
Goodell,  S.  P.  Andrews,  Gerrit  Smith,  yourself,  and 
other  distinguished  and  leading  abolitionists,  of  both 
se.xes,  as  proof  of  my  assertion.  I  shall  also  endeavor  to 
show  that  all  the  literary  mind  of  Western  Europe  con- 
curs with  you.  You,  I  perceive,  have  read  a  work  al- 
ready written  by  me,  and  will  not  mistake  my  object. 
We  live  in  a  dangerous  crisis,  and  every  patriot  and  phi- 
lanthropist should  set  aside  all  false  delicacy  in  the  earnest 
pursuit  of  truth.  I  believe  Slavery  natural,  necessary, 
indispensable.  You  think  it  inexpedient,  immoral  and 
criminal.  Neither  of  us  should  withhold  any  facts  that 
will  enable  the  public  to  form  correct  opinions.  Should 
you  not  reply  to  this  letter,  I  shall  publish  a  copy  of  it 
in  my  book,  and  insist  that  your  silence  is  an  admission 
of  the  truth  of  my  charges.  I  regret  that  your  very 
able  paper  reaches  me  irregularly. 

Your  obedient  servant, 

Geo.  Fitziiuoii. 

LoTD  Gaurisox,  Esq.,  Boston,  Mass. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.  155 


LETTER  TO  MR.  GREELY. 

Port  Royal,   Ya.,  July  20,  1856. 

Dear  Sir — I  am  writing  a  work,  entitled,  "Cannibals 
All;  or,  Slaves  Without  Masters."  I  shall  state,  as  a 
matter  of  fact,  that  all  theoretical  abolitionists  assert  the 
failure  of  free  society,  and  each  proj^oscs  some  plan  for 
its  re-organization.  I  shall  cite  particularly  yourself, 
Gerrit  Smith,  S.  P.  Andrews,  Mr.  Goodell  and  Mr.  Gar- 
rison. I  shall  rely  on  your  discussion  with  the  Courier 
and  Enquirer,  which  has  been  burnt,  chiefly  as  my  proof 
of  your  opinion. 

I  wish  to  afiord  you,  and  other  distinguished  gentle- 
men, an  opportunity  of  correcting  me  if  I  have  come  to 
erroneous  conclusions.  I  have,  therefore,  written  to  Mr. 
Garrison,  and  I  now  write  to  you,  to  afford  you  an  op- 
portunity to  correct  me  if  I  am  wrong.  I  know  you  all 
think  our  society  a  greater  failure  than  your  own ;  but 
you  can  admit  for  yourselves,  not  for  us.  I  shall  pub- 
lish a  copy  of  this  letter  in  my  book,  if  you  do  not  reply, 
(and  possibly  if  you  reply,)  both  this  letter  and  your 
answer. 

'Tis  not  possible  that  our  two  forms  of  society  can  long 
co-exist.  All  Christendom  is  one  republic,  has  one  re- 
ligion, belongs  to  one  race,  and  is  governed  by  one  public 
opinion.  Social  systems,  formed  on  opposite  principles, 
cannot  co-endure. 

"With  much  respect, 

Your  obedient  servant, 

Geo.  FiTznuQH. 


156  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

Before  parting  v,\t\\  our  "  Masters  in  the  Art  •£ 
War,"  we  must  abate  a  little  of  the  honors  we  have 
lavished  on  tlieni.  We  have  said  that  tliej  dis- 
covered and  proclaimed  the  failure  of  Free  Society 
before  we  did.  So  they  did ;  but  they  mistook  it 
for  the  failure  of  all  society.  Their  little  world  of 
Western  Europe  and  Yankcedom  was,  in  their  eyes, 
the  Avholc  Avorld.  Hence,  exclaims  Mr.  Carlyle, 
"We  must  have  a  new  world,  if  Ave  are  to  have  any 
world  at  all."  And  Andrews  takes  up  the  cry,  all 
the  North  joins  in  chorus,  and  sends  the  sad  knell 
echoing  back  to  Europe.  Not  so  fast,  gentlemen. 
Your  Avorld  is  not  one-tenth  of  the  whole  world, 
and  all  is  peace,  quiet,  and  prosperity  outside  of  it. 
We  of  the  South,  and  all  slave  countries,  want  no 
new  world. 

Now  we  were  the  first  to  discover  and  proclaim 
that  Free  Society  alone  had  failed ;  and  failed  be- 
cause it  was  free.  We  occupied  vantage  ground,  a 
good  stand- point,  saw  both  forms  of  society,  and 
thus  discovered  what  our  masters  had  overlooked. 
Every  body  sees  it  now,  and  gives  us  no  more  credit 
for  the  discovery,  than  his  cotemporaries  gave  Co- 
lumbus— "At  mihi  plaudo!" 

Italiaji!  primus  conclamat  Achates  ; 
Italiam,  coeto  socii  clamore  salutant. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        157 


CHAPTER    XI. 

DECAY   OF   ENGLISH   LIBERTY,    AND   GROWTH   OF 
ENGLISH   POOR    LAWS. 

Blackstone,  whose  Commentaries  have  been,  for 
half  a  century,  a  common  school-book,  and  whose 
opinions  on  the  rise,  growth  and  fiill  development 
of  British  liberty,  are  generally  received  as  true,  as 
well  in  America  as  in  Europe,  maintains  a  theory 
the  very  opposite  of  that  for  which  ^\e  are  about  to 
contend. 

He  holds  that  the  appearance  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  about  the  reign  of  Henry  the  Third,  was 
the  dawn  of  approaching  liberty.  We  contend  that 
it  was  the  origin  of  the  capitalist  and  moneyed  in- 
terest government,  destined  finally  to  swallow  up 
all  other  powers  in  the  State,  and  to  bring  about 
the  most  selfish,  exacting  and  unfeeling  class,  des- 
potism. He  thinks  the  emancipation  of  the  serfs 
was  another  advance  towards  equality  of  rights  and 
conditions.  We  think  it  aggravated  inequality  of 
conditions,  and  divested  the  liberated  class  of  every 
valuable,  social  and  political  right.  A  short  his- 
tory of  the  English  Poor  Laws,  which  ^ve  shall  an- 
nex, will  enable  the  reader  to  decide  between  us  on 


158  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

this  head.  lie  thinks  the  Roformation  increasetl 
the  liberties  of  the  subject.  AVe  think  that,  in  de- 
stroying tlic  noblest  charity  fund  in  the  -world,  the 
church  lands,  and  abolishing  a  priesthood,  the  effi- 
cient and  zealous  friends  of  tlie  poor,  the  Refor- 
ination  tended  to  diminish  the  liberty  of  the  mass 
of  the  people,  and  to  impair  their  moral,  social  and 
physical  Avell-being.  lie  thinks  that  the  Revolu- 
tion, by  increasing  the  power  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, and  lessening  the  prerogative  of  the  Crown, 
and  the  influence  of  the  Church,  promoted  liberty. 
We  think  the  Crown  and  the  Church  the  natura' 
friends,  allies  and  guardians  of  the  laboring  class ; 
the  House  of  Commons,  a  moneyed  firm,  their 
natural  enemies ;  and  that  the  Revolution  was  a 
marked  epoch  in  the  steady  decay  of  British 
liberty. 

He  thinks  that  the  settlement  of  1G88  that  suc- 
cessfully asserted  in  theory  the  supreme  sovereignty 
of  Parliament,  but  particularly  the  supreme  sove- 
reignty of  tlic  House  of  Commons,  was  the  con- 
summation or  perfection  of  British  liberty.  We 
are  sure,  that  that  settlement,  and  the  chartering 
of  the  Bank  of  England,  which  soon  succeeded  it, 
united  the  landed  and  moneyed  interests,  placed  all 
the  powers  of  government  in  their  hands,  and  de- 
prived the  great  laboring  class  of  every  valuable 
right  and  liberty.  The  nobility,  the  church,  the 
king,   were  now  powerless ;   and   the    mass  of   the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        159 

people,  \rholly  unrepresented  in  the  government, 
found  themselves  exposed  to  the  grinding  and  piti- 
less despotism  of  their  natural  and  hereditary  ene- 
mies. Mr.  Charles  Dickens,  who  pities  the  condi- 
tion of  the  negro  slaves,  thus  sums  up,  in  a  late 
speech,  the  worse  condition  of  the  "  Slaves  without 
Masters,"  in  Great  Britain:  "Beneath  all  this,  is 
a  heaving  mass  of  poverty,  ignorance  and  crime." 
Such  is  English  liberty  for  the  masses.  Thirty 
thousand  men  own  the  lands  of  England,  three 
thousand  those  of  Scotland,  and  fewer  still  those  of 
Ireland.  The  great  mass  of  the  people  are  cut  oiF 
from  the  soil,  have  no  certain  means  of  subsistence, 
and  are  trespassers  upon  the  earth,  without  a  sin- 
gle valuable  or  available  right.  Contrast  their  sit- 
uations with  that  of  the  old  villeins,  and  see  then 
whether  our  theory  of  British  liberty  and  the  Brit- 
ish constitution  be  true,  or  that  of  Blackstone. 

All  writers  agree  there  vrere  no  beggars  or  pau- 
pers in  England  until  the  liberation  of  the  serfs ; 
and  moreover  admit  that  slaves,  in  all  ages  and  in 
all  countries,  have  had  all  their  physical  wants  suf- 
ficiently supplied.  They  also  concur  in  stating, 
that  crime  was  multiplied  by  turning  loose  on 
society  a  class  of  men  who  had  been  accustomed  to 
and  still  needed  the  control  of  masters. 

Until  the  liberation  of  the  villeins,  every  man 
in  England  had  his  appropriate  situation  and  du- 
ties, and   a  mutual   and  adequate  interest  in  the 


.160  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

soil.  Practically  tlie  lands  of  England  were  the 
common  property  of  the  people  of  England.  The 
old  Barons  Avcre  not  the  representatives  of  particu- 
lar classes  in  Parliament,  but  the  friends,  and  faith- 
ful and  able  representatives  of  all  classes ;  for  the 
interests  of  all  classes  were  identified.  Monteil,  a 
recent  French  author,  who  has  written  the  most  ac- 
curate and  graphic  description  of  social  conditions 
during  the  Feudal  ages,  describes  the  serfs  as  the 
especial  pets  and  favorites  of  the  Barons.  They 
were  the  most  dependent,  obedient,  and  useful 
members  of  the  feudal  society,  and  like  younger  chil- 
dren, became  favorites.  The  same  class  now  consti- 
tute the  Proletariat,  the  Lazzaroni,  the  Gypsies,  the 
Parias,  and  the  "pauper  banditti"  of  "Western  Eu- 
rope, and  the  Leperos  of  Mexico.  As  slaves,  they 
were  loved  and  protected;  as  pretended  freemen, 
they  Avere  execrated  and  persecuted. 

Mr.  Lester,  a  New  York  abolitionist,  after  a  long 
and  careful  observation  and  study  of  the  present 
condition  of  the  English  laboring  class,  solemnly 
avers,  in  his  "Glory  and  Shame  of  England,"  tliat 
he  would  sooner  subject  his  child  to  Southern 
slavery,  than  have  him  to  be  a  free  laborer  of 
England. 

But  it  is  the  early  history  of  the  English  Poor 
Laws,  that  proves  most  conclusively  that  the  libe- 
ration of  the  villeins  was  a  sham  and  a  pretence, 
and  that  their  situation  has  been  worse,  their  rights 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  161 

fewer,  and  tlioir  liberties  less,  since  emancipation 
than  before.  The  Poor  Laws,  from  the  time  of  Ed- 
ward the  Third  to  that  of  Elizabeth,  were  laws  to 
punish  the  poor,  and  to  keep  them  at  work  for  low 
wages.  Not  till  late  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth,  was 
any  charitable  provision  made  for  them.  Then, 
most  of  them  would  have  starved,  as  the  confisca- 
tion and  sales  of  the  church  lands  had  deprived 
them  of  their  only  refuge,  but  for  the  new  system 
of  charity.  The  rich  must  have  labor,  and  could 
not  aiford  to  let  them  all  starve,  although  they 
were  ready  to  attempt  the  most  stringent  means  to 
prevent  their  increase. 

In  the  Edinburgh  Review,  October,  1841,  on 
Poor  Law  Reform,  we  find  the  following  admirable 
history  and  synopsis  of  the  English  Poor  Laws : 

The  great  experiment  of  Poor  Law  amendment,  which 
has  now  for  seven  years  been  in  progress  among  our 
southern  neighbors,  appears  to  us  to  have  been  insuffi- 
ciently attended  to,  and  therefore  to  have  been  imper- 
fectly understood  in  this  part  of  the  island.  We  do  not 
believe  that  many  of  our  Scottish  readers  are  fully  aware 
of  the  origin  of  the  English  Poor  Laws,  of  the  changes 
which  they  underwent,  of  the  abuses  which  they  created, 
of  the  remedy  which  has  been  applied ;  or  of  the  obsta- 
cles which  have  diminished  the  success  of  that  great 
measure,  and  now  threaten  its  efficiency.  And  yet  these 
are  subjects  of  the  deepest  interest,  even  to  those  who 
study  legislation  merely  as  a  science.     A  series  of  laws 


162  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

are  cxliibited,  persevered  in  for  centuries,  by  a  nation 
al\va3's  eminent  for  practical  Avisdoin,  of  which  the  result 
has  almost  invariably  been  failure,  or  Avorsc  than  failure  j 
Avhich  in  scarcely  a  single  instance  have  attained  their 
objects,  and  in  most  cases  have  produced  effects  precisely 
opposite  to  the  intentions  of  their  framcrs; — have  aggra- 
vated whtitever  they  were  intended  to  diminish,  and  pro- 
duced whatever  they  were  intended  to  prevent.  From 
ns,  as  Scotchmen,  they  merit  peculiar  attention,  not  only 
from  the  resemblance  of  our  poor  laws  to  the  earlier 
English  statutes;  but  from  the  probability  that,  as  the 
connection  between  the  two  countries  becomes  more  inti- 
mate, we  shall  at  no  distant  period  follow  the  example, 
whatever  it  may  be,  of  the  larger  country  to  which  we 
are  united ;  and  participate  in  the  evils  and  advantages 
of  the  system  which  she  may  finally  adopt.  This  fate 
already  threatens  Ireland.  It  is  scarcely  probable  that 
Scotland  can  avoid  it. 

Each  of  the  subjects  to  which  we  have  alluded,  would 
require  a  volume  for  its  complete  development;  but  we 
are  constrained  to  give  to  them  such  consideration  as  is 
admissible  within  the  limits  of  an  article  of  moderate 
length. 

The  Committee  of  the  House  of  Commons  which  con- 
sidered the  Poor  Laws  in  1817,  commence  their  able 
Report  by  stating,  that  "the  principle  of  a  compulsory 
provision  for  the  impotent,  and  for  setting  to  work  the 
able-bodied,  originated,  without  doubt,  in  motives  of  the 
purest  humanity."  From  this  statement,  plausible  as  it 
is,  we  utterly  dissent.  We  believe  that  the  English  poor 
laws  originated  in  selfishness,  ignorance,  and  pride.     Bet- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        163 

ter  motives,  ■without  doubt,  thougla  misdirected  by  almost 
equal  ignorance,  dictated  the  changes  which  were  made 
in  those  laws  during  the  18th  century — the  fourth  which 
elapsed  from  their  commencement ;  but  we  arc  convinced 
that  their  origin  was  an  attempt  substantially  to  restore 
the  expiring  system  of  slavery.  The  evils  of  slavery  are 
now  understood ;  it  is  admitted  that  it  destroys  all  the 
nobler  virtues,  botb  moral  and  intellectual ;  that  it  leaves 
the  slave  without  energy,  without  truth,  without  honesty, 
without  industry,  without  providence;  in  short,  without 
any  of  the  qualities  which  fit  men  to  be  respected  or 
even  esteemed.  But  mischievous  as  slavery  is,  it  has 
many  plausible  advantages,  and  freedom  many  apparent 
dangers.  The  subsistence  of  a  slave  is  safe;  he  cannot 
suffer  from  insufficient  wages,  or  from  want  of  employ- 
ment ;  he  has  not  to  save  for  sickness  or  old  age ;  he  has 
not  to  provide  for  his  family;  he  cannot  waste  in  drunk- 
enness the  wages  by  which  they  were  to  be  supported; 
bis  idleness  or  dishonesty  cannot  reduce  them  to  miser}'; 
they  suffer  neither  from  his  faults  nor  his  follies.  We 
believe  that  there  are  few  of  our  Highland  parishes  in 
Avhicb  there  is  not  more  suffering  from  poverty  than 
would  be  found  in  an  equal  Russian  population.  Again, 
the  master  thinks  that  he  gains  by  being  able  to  propor- 
tion the  slave's  subsistence  to  his  wants.  In  a  state  of 
freedom,  average  wages  are  always  cnougli  to  support, 
with  more  or  less  comfort,  but  still  to  support,  an  average 
family.  The  unmarried  slave  receives  merely  his  own 
maintenance.  A  freeman  makes  a  bargain ;  he  asks 
wbateyer  his  master  can  afford  to  pay.     The  competition 


164  CANNIBALS  ALL;    OH, 

among  employcBi  forces  tliom  to  submit  to  these  terms; 
and  the  hijihly  paid  workman  often  wastes  his  extra 
wages  in  idleness  and  debauchery.  And  when  employ- 
ment is  abundant;  tliat  is,  when  li is  services  are  most 
wanted,  he  often  tries  to  better  himself  by  quitting  his 
master.  All  this  is  disagreeable  to  masters  who  have 
been  accustomed  to  the  apparent  economy  of  servile  la- 
bor, and  to  its  lethargic  obedience. 

The  great  motive  of  the  framers  of  the  earlier  English 
poor  laws  was  to  remedy  the  latter  class  of  inconveniences ; 
those  which  affect,  or  appear  to  affect  the  master.  The 
motive  of  the  framers  of  the  later  acts  again,  beginning 
with  George  I.,  was  to  remedy  the  first  class  'of  evils : 
those  which  affect  the  free  laborer  and  his  family. 

The  first  set  of  laws  were  barbarous  and  unskillful,  and 
their  failure  is  evident  from  their  constant  re-enactment 
or  amendment;;  with  different  provisions  and  severer  pen- 
alties. The  second  set  had  a  different  fate — they  ulti- 
mately succeeded,  in  many  districts,  in  giving  to  the 
laborer  and  to  his  family  the  security  of  servitude.  They 
succeeded  in  relieving  him  and  those  who,  in  a  state  of 
real  freedom,  would  have  been  dependent  on  him,  from 
many  of  the  penalties  imposed  by  nature  on  idleness, 
improvidence,  and  misconduct.  And  by  doing  this,  they 
in  a  great  measure  effected,  though  certainly  against  the 
intentions  of  the  legislature,  the  object  which  had  been 
vainly  attempted  by  the  earlier  laws.  They  confined  the 
laborer  to  his  parish ;  they  dictated  to  him  who  should 
be  his  master;  and  they  proportioned  his  wages,  not  to 
his   services,  but   to  his  wants.     Before   the   poor   law 


SLAVES  WITnOUT   MASTERS.  165 

amendftient  act,  nothing  but  the  power  of  arbitrary  pun- 
ishment was  wanting  in  the  pauperized  parishes  to  a  com- 
plete system  of  pnvdial  shivery. 

Our  limits  will  not  allow  us  to  do  more  than  to  state 
very  briefly  the  material  par-ts  of  the  numerous  statutes, 
beginning  by  the  statute  of  laborers,  2od  Edward  III., 
(iC49,)  and  ending  by  the  39th  Eliz.  cap.  4,  (1597,) 
which  were  passed  for  the  supposed  benefit  of  masters. 

The  23d  Ed.  III.  requires  all  servants  to  accept  the 
wages  which  were  usually  given  five  or  sis  years  before, 
and  to  serve  by  the  year,  not  by  the  day ;  it  fixes  a  posi- 
tive rate  of  wages  in  many  employments;  forbids  persons 
to  quit  the  places  in  which  they  had  dwelt  in  the  winter, 
aud  search  employment  elsewhere  in  the  summer;  or  to 
remove,  in  order  to  evade  the  act,  from  one  county  to 
another.  A  few  years  after,  in  13G0,  the  34th  Ed.  Ill, 
confirmed  the  previous  statute,  and  added  to  the  penalties, 
which  it  imposed  on  laborers  or  artificers  absenting  them- 
selves from  their  services,  that  they  should  be  branded 
on  the  forehead  with  the  letter  F.  It  imposed  also  a 
fine  of  £10  on  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  a  town  which 
did  not  deliver  up  a  laborer  or  artificer  who  had  left  his 
service. 

Twenty-eight  years  after,  in  1388,  was  passed  the  12th 
Eich.  II.,  which  has  generally  been  considered  as  the 
origin  of  the  English  poor  laws.  By  that  act  the  acts  of 
Ed.  III.  are  confirmed — laborers  are  prohibited,  on  pain 
of  imprisonment,  from  quitting  their  residences  in  search 
of  work,  unless  provided  with  testimonials  stating  the 
cause  of  their  absence,  and  the  time  of  their  returning, 
to  be  issued  by  justices  of  the  peace  at  their  discretion. 


166  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

And,  "because  laborers  will  not,  nor,  for  a  long  season, 
would  not,  serve  without  extrageous  and  excessive  hire," 
prices  are  fixed  for  their  labor;  and  puuishnieiits  awarded 
against  the  laborer  who  receives  more,  and  the  master 
who  gives  more.  Persons  who  have  been  eniplo3'ed  in 
husbandry  until  twelve  years  of  age,  are  prohibited  from 
becoming  artisans.  Able-bodied  beggars  are  to  be  treated 
as  laborers  wandering  without  passports.  Impotent  beg- 
gars are  to  remain  where  they  are  at  the  time  of  the 
proclamation  of  the  act ;  or,  if  those  places  are  unwilling 
or  unable  to  support  them,  they  are,  within  forty  days, 
to  repair  to  the  places  where  they  were  born,  and  there 
dwell  during  their  lives. 

We  have  said  that  this  act  has  been  treated  as  the 
origin  of  the  English  poor  laws.  It  has  been  so  consid- 
ered in  consequence  of  the  last  clause,  which  is  the  first 
enactment  recognizing  the  existence  of  the  impotent 
poor.  But  this  enactment  makes  no  provision  for  them ; 
though,  by  requiring  them  to  be  stationary  in  a  given 
spot  for  the  I'est  of  their  lives,  it  seems  to  assume  that 
they  would  be  supported  there.  It  gives  them,  however, 
no  claim,  nor  is  thei*e  a  clause  in  the  whole  act  intended 
to  benefit  any  persons  except  the  employers  of  labor,  and 
principally  of  agricultural  labor — that  is  to  say,  the  land- 
owners who  made  the  law.  If  the  provisions  of  the  act 
could  have  been  enforced,  the  agricultural  laborers,  and 
they  formed  probably  four-fifths  of  the  population  of 
England,  though  nominally  free,  would  have  been  as 
effectually  ascripti  gJchse  as  any  Polish  serf.  And,  to 
make  a  nearer  approximation  to  slavery,  in  the  nest  year 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  167 

(13S9),  the  loth  Rich.  II.  was  passed ;  Avhich  directs  the 
justices  of  every  county  to  make  proclamation  every  half 
year,  at  their  discretion,  according  to  the  price  of  food, 
"what  wages  every  artificer  and  laborer  shall  receive  by 
the  day.  This  act,  with  some  intervals,  during  which 
the  legislature  attempted  itself  to  fix  the  prices  of  labor, 
remained  substantially  in  force  until  the  present  century. 
A  further  attempt  to  reduce  husbandry  laborers  to  a  he- 
reditary caste  of  serfs,  was  made  by  the  7th  Hen.  IV. 
cap.  17,  (1405,)  which,  after  reciting  that  the  provisions 
of  the  former  acts  were  evaded  by  persons  apprenticing 
their  children  to  crafts  in  towns — so  that  there  is  such  a 
scarcity  of  husbandry  laborers  that  gentlemen  are  impov- 
erished— forbids  persons  not  having  20s.  a-year  in  land 
to  do  so,  under  penalty  of  a  year's  imprisonment. 

It  appears,  however,  that  the  laborers  did  not  readily 
submit  to  the  villenage  to  whicb  the  law  strove  to  reduce 
them ;  for  from  this  time  the  English  statute  book  is  de- 
formed by  the  enactments  against  able-bodied  pei'.sons 
leaving  their  homes,  or  refusing  to  work  at  the  wages 
offered  to  them,  or  loitering,  (that  is  to  say,  professing  to 
be  out  of  work,)  which,  to  use  tbe  words  of  Dr.  Burn, 
"make  this  part  of  Englisb  history  look  like  the  history 
of  the  savages  in  America.  Almost  all  the  severities 
have  been  inflicted,  except  scalping."*  A  new  class  of 
criminals,  designated  by  the  terms  "sturdy  rogues"  and 
"vagabonds,"  was  created.  Among  these  were  included 
idle   and   suspect  persons,  living  suspiciously. f     Persons 

*  History  of  the  Poor  Laws,  p.  120.         f  11  Hen.  VII.  cap.  2. 


1G8  CANNIDALS   ALL;    OR, 

liaving  no  land  or  craft  wliereby  tliey  get  their  living.* 
Idle  persons  calling  thcuisclves  scrving-nicn,  having  no 
masters.  Persons  who,  after  having  been  sent  home, 
absent  themselves  from  such  labor  as  they  shall  be  ap- 
pointed to.f  Able-bodied  poor  persons  who  do  not  apply 
themselves  to  some  honest  labor  or  other;  or  serve  even 
for  meat  and  drink,  if  nothing  more  is  to  be  obtained.;}; 
Persons  able  to  labor,  not  having  land  or  master,  nor 
using  any  lawful  employment.  Laborers  using  loitering, 
and  refusing  to  work  for  reasonable  wages. § 

The  first  attempt  on  the  part  of  a  person  dependent  on 
his  labor  for  his  support  to  assert  free  agency,  by  chang- 
ing his  abode,  or  by  making  a  bargain  for  his  services,  or 
even  by  refusing  to  work  for  "  bare  meat  and  drink," 
rendered  him  liable  to  be  whipped  and  sent  back  to  his 
place  of  birth,  or  last  residence,  for  three  years;  or,  ac- 
cording to  some  statutes,  for  one  year,  there  to  be  at  the 
disposal  of  the  local  authorities.  The  second  attempt 
subjected  him,  at  one  time,  to  slavery  for  life,  "to  be  fed 
on  bread  and  water  and  refuse  meat,  and  caused  to  work 
by  beating,  chaining,  or  otherwise;"  and  for  the  third, 
he  was  to  suffer  death  as  a  felon. 

We  have  seen  that  the  12th  Eich.  IT.  required  the 
impotent  poor  to  remain  for  life  where  they  were  found 
at  the  proclamation  of  the  act,  or  at  the  places  of  their 
birth.     The  subsequent  statutes  require  them  to  proceed 


*  22  Hen.  YIIL  cap.  12.  j  27  IIcu.  YIII.  cap.  25. 

X  1  Ed.  VL  cap.  3. 

§3  audi  Ed.  VI.  cap.  IG.     14  Eliz.  cap.  5.     30  Eliz.  cap.  4. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  169 

either  to  tlieir  places  of  birth,  or  last  places  of  residence, 
for  three  years.  The  law  assumed,  as  we  have  already- 
remarked,  that  they  would  be  supported  there  by  volun- 
tary alms;  and  as  respects  the  able-bodied,  it  assumed 
that  an  able-bodied  slave,  for  such  the  laborer  given 
up  to  the  local  authorities  was,  could  always  be  made 
worth  his  maintenance;  that  maintenance  being,  of 
course,  the  lowest  that  could  keep  him  in  working 
order.  It  appears,  however,  that  casual  alms  were  found 
an  insufficient,  or  an  inconvenient  provision  for  the  im- 
potent; that  the  local  authorities  were  not  sufficiently 
severe  taskmasters  of  the  able-bodied ;  and  that  the  keep- 
ing them  at  work  required  some  fund,  by  way  of  capital. 
The  27th  Hen.  YIII.  cap.  25,  (153G,)  therefore,  requires 
the  parishes  to  which  the  able-bodied  should  be  sent,  "to 
keep  them  to  continual  labor  in  such  wise  that  they  may 
get  their  own  living  by  the  continual  labor  of  their  own 
hands ;  "  on  pain  that  every  parish  making  default  shall 
forfeit  twenty  shillings  a-month.  It  directs  the  church- 
wardens, and  two  others  of  every  parish,  to  collect  alms 
and  broken  meat,  to  be  employed  in  supporting  the  im- 
potent poor,  and  "setting  and  keeping  to  work  the  sturdy 
vagabonds;"  and  forbids  other  almsgiving,  on  pain  of 
forfeiting  ten  times  the  amount.  This  is  the  first  attempt 
at  making  charity  legal  and  systematic ;  and  it  was  obvi- 
ously a  part  of  the  scheme  for  confining  the  laboring 
population  to  their  own  parishes.  It  seems  to  have  been 
supposed  that  voluntary  alms,  systematically  distributed, 
would  pi'ovide  wholly  for  the  impotent,  and  form  a  fund 
which,  aided  by  the  fruits  of  their  forced  labor,  would 


170  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

support  the  "sturdy  vagabonds;"  and,  therefore,  that  no 
one  could  have  an  excuse  for  changing  his  residence. 

In  the  early  part  of  Elizabeth's  reign  was  passed  a 
statute,  5th  Eliz.  cap.  3,  (1562,)  inflicting  the  usual  pen- 
alties, whipping,  slavery,  and  death,  on  sturdy  vagabonds; 
that  is  to  say,  on  those  who,  having  no  property  but  their 
labor,  presumed  to  act  as  if  they  had  a  right  to  dispose 
of  it;  and  containing  the  usual  provisions  for  confining 
the  impotent  poor  to  their  parishes.  In  one  respect, 
however,  it  was  a  great  step  in  advance ;  for  it  contains 
for  the  first  time  a  pi'ovision  enabling  the  justices  to  tax, 
at  their  discretion,  those  who  refused  to  contribute  to  the 
relief  of  the  impotent  and  the  keeping  at  work  the  able- 
bodied.  Concurrently  with  this  statute,  and  indeed  as  a 
part  of  it,  for  it  is  the  next  chapter  on  the  roll  of  pai'lia- 
ment,  was  passed  the  5th  Eliz.  cap.  4.  This  statute 
requires  all  persons  brought  up  to  certain  specified  trades, 
at  that  time  the  principal  trades  of  the  country,  and  not 
possessed"  of  property,  or  employed  in  husbandry,  or  in 
a  gentleman's  service,  to  continue  to  serve  in  such  trades; 
and  orders  that  all  other  persons,  between  twelve  years 
old  and  sixty,  not  being  gentlemen,  or  students  in  a 
school  or  university,  or  entitled  to  property,  and  not  en- 
gaged in  maritime  or  mining  operations,  be  compelled  to 
serve  in  husbandry  with  any  person  that  will  require 
such  person  to  serve,  within  the  same  county.  Females, 
in  corporate  towns,  between  the  ages  of  twelve  and  forty, 
and  unmarried,  are  to  be  disposed  of  in  service  by  the 
corporate  authorities,  at  such  wages,  and  in  such  sort  and 
manner,  as  the  authorities  think  meet.  The  hours  of 
tfork  are  fixed  hy  the  statute;  and  the  justices  arc,  twice 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  171 

a-year,  after  "conferring  together  respecting  the  plenty 
or  scarcity  of  the  time,"  to  fix  the  wages.  Persons  di- 
rectly or  indirectly  paying  more,  are  to  be  punished  by 
imprisonment  and  fine;  persons  receiving  more,  by  im- 
prisonment. No  person  is  to  depart  from  one  parish  to 
another,  or  from  one  hundred  or  covinty  to  serve  in  an- 
other hundred  or  county,  without  a  license  from  the  local 
authorities. 

When  we  recollect  that  disobedience  to  these  enact- 
ments exposed  a  man  or  a  woman  to  be  included  in  the 
proscribed  class  of  vagabonds,  punishable  by  whipping, 
branding,  slavery,  and  death,  it  must  be  admitted  that, 
whatever  might  be  the  practice,  the  laio  gave  little  free- 
dom to  the  laboring  classes. 

The  14th  Eliz.  cap.  5,  (1572,)  carried  on  the  same 
legislation  against  the  able-bodied,  merely  aggravating 
the  penalty,  by  subjecting  the  offenders  (that  is,  all  per- 
sons who  would  not  work  for  what  the  justices  should 
think  reasonable  wages)  to  whipping  and  burning  for  the 
first  offence,  and  to  the  penalties  of  felony  for  the  second. 
It  made  a  further  approach  to  the  present  system,  by 
directino-  the  fund  "for  settino;  to  work  the  rogues  and 
vagabonds,"  and  relieving  the  impotent,  to  be  raised  by 
a  general  assessment. 

Twenty -five  years  afterwards,  the  two  acts  of  the  39  th 
Eliz.  cap.  3  and  4,  were  passed,  which  for  the  first  time 
divided  into  separate  statutes  the  punishment  of  the  able- 
bodied,  and  the  relief  of  the  impotent.  By  the  second 
of  these  acts,  vagabonds  (including,  we  repeat,  pei'sons 
able  to  labor,  having  no  lord  or  master,  not  using  any 
lawful  employments,  and  laborers  refusing  to  work  for 
common  wages)    are  to  bo  whipped,  but  not  branded, 


172  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

and  sent  back  to  their  parishes :  if  they  appear  to  be 
such  as  will  not  be  veformod,  they  are  to  be  tran.«portcd, 
or  adjudged  ])erpctually  to  the  galleys. 

The  other  act,  tlie  o9th  Eliz.  cap.  3,  differs  so  slightly 
from  the  43d  Eliz.  cap.  2,  that  it  requires  no  further 
attention. 

The  43d  of  Eliz.  directs,  that  the  churchwardens  and 
two  or  more  householders,  to  be  appointed  by  the  jus- 
tices, sliall  take  order,  with  the  consent  of  the  justices, 
for  setting  to  work  children,  and  all  persons  having  no 
means  to  maintain  themselves,  and  using  no  ordinary  or 
daily  trade  of  life  to  get  their  living  by :  and  to  raise  a 
fund  Ity  taxation  of  the  inhabitants  for  such  setting  to 
work,  and  for  the  necessary  relief  of  the  lame,  impotent, 
old,  and  blind  poor  not  able  to  work.  And  the  justices 
are  directed  to  send  to  the  House  of  Correction,  or  com- 
mon jail,  "such  as  shall  not  employ  themselves  to  work, 
being  appointed  tliereunto  as  aforesaid." 

It  appears  from  this  statement,  that  the  4od  of  Eliza- 
beth deserves  neither  the  praise  nor  the  blame  which 
have  been  lavished  on  it.  So  far  from  having  been 
prompted  by  benevolence,  it  was  a  necessary  link  in  one 
of  the  heaviest  chains  in  which  a  people  calling  itself 
free  has  been  bound.  It  was  part  of  a  scheme  prose- 
cuted for  centuries,  in  defiance  of  reason,  ju.stice,  and 
humanity,  to  reduce  the  laboring  classes  to  serfs,  to  im- 
prison them  in  their  parishes,  and  to  dictate  to  them  their 
employments  and  their  wages.  Of  course,  persons  con- 
fined to  certain  districts  by  penalties  of  whipping,  muti- 
lation, and  death,  uiust  be  supported ;  and,  if  they  were 
capable  of  labor,  it  was  obvious  that  they  ought  to  be 
made  to  contribute  to  the  expense  of  their  maintenance. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  173 

Thence  ai'ose  the  provisions  for  relieving  the  impotent, 
and  setting  to  -work  the  able-bodied.  Eut  these  provi- 
sions do  not,  on  the  other  hand,  deserve  the  censure 
passed  on  them  by  the  Committee  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons in  1817.  They  were  not  of  a  nature  to  induce  the 
industrious  to  relax  their  efforts.  They  held  out  no 
temptations  to  idleness.  The  able-bodied,  who  were  the 
objects  of  the  43d  Elizabeth,  were  those  "who,  having 
no  means  to  maintain  themselves,  used  no  ordinary  and 
daily  trade  of  life  to  get  their  living  by;"  such  persons 
were,  by  the  previous  acts,  criminals ;  the  work  to  which 
they  were  to  be  put  was  forced  work ;  and  if  they  did 
not  employ  themselves  in  it,  "being  thereunto  appointed 
as  aforesaid,''  the  justices  were  to  commit  them  to  jail. 
The  industrious  laborer  was  not  within  the  spirit  or  the 
words  of  the  act.  This  was,  indeed,  the  complaint  of 
Lord  Hale:  "The  plaster,"  says  his  Lordship,  "is  not 
so  large  as  the  sore.  There  are  many  poor  who  are  able 
to  work  if  they  had  it,  and  had  it  at  reasonable  wages, 
whereby  they  might  support  themselves  and  their  fami- 
lies.    These  are  not  wi^in  the  provisions  of  the  law."* 

And  it  was  long  before  the  legislature  assented  to  any 
extension  of  the  43d  Elizabeth.  The  8th  and  9th  Will. 
III.  cap.  30,  passed  nearly  a  century  afterwards,  "  To  the 
intent  that  the  money  raised  only  for  the  relief  of  &ucli 
OS  are  impotent  as  well  as  jwor,  may  not  be  misapplied," 
requires  all  persons  receiving  relief,  and  their  families, 
to  wear  a  badge,  containing  a  large  Roman  P,  and  the 

*  See  Lord  Hale's  paper  at  length,  in  "Burn's  History  of  the 
Poor  Laws,"  p.  141. 


174  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

first  letter  of  the  name  of  tbc  parish  from  which  they 
received  relief;  the  object  being  not,  as  has  been  sup- 
posed, to  degrade  the  pauper,  but  to  aiford  an  easy  means 
of  detecting  the  overseer  who  Lad  relieved  an  able-bodied 
person. 

The  oppressive  legislation  of  the  Plantagenets  and  Tu- 
dors  was  unsuccessful.  The  provisions  on  which  its 
efficacy  depended,  namely,  the  regulation  of  wages  by 
the  justices,  the  punishment  of  those  who  refused  to 
work  for  such  wages,  or  who  paid  more  than  such  wages, 
and  the  punishment  of  those  who  left  their  parishes 
without  license,  became  gradually  obsolete.  Legally  con- 
sidered, they  remained  in  force  until  the  present  century. 
Sir  Frederic  Eden  has  collected  regulations  of  wages  by 
the  justices,  from  the  35th  of  Eliz.  (1593)  down  to  1725. 
And  the  last  which  he  gives,  that  regulating  wages  for 
the  county  of  Lancaster  in  1725,  contains  an  exposition 
of  the  law  by  the  justices,  in  the  spirit  of  the  times  of 
Henry  VIII.  or  Elizabeth:  "That  the  transgressors  may 
be  inexcusable  when  punished,  we,  the  said  justices, 
publish  these  denunciations,  peimlties,  punishments,  and 
forfeitures  which  the  statutes  impose.  No  servant  that 
hath  been  in  service  before,  ought  to  be  retained  without 
a  testimonial  that  he  or  she  is  legally  licensed  to  depart, 
and  at  liberty  to  serve  elsewhere,  to  be  registered  with 
the  minister  of  the  parish  whence  the  servant  departs. 
The  master  retaining  a  servant  without  such  testimonial 
forfeits  five  pounds.  The  person  wanting  such  testimo- 
nial shall  be  imprisoned  till  he  procure  it.  If  he  do  not 
produce  one  within  twenty-one  days,  to  be  whipped  as  a 
vagabond.     The  person   that  gives  more  wages  than  is 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  175 

appointed  by  the  justices  shall  forfeit  five  pounds,  and  be 
imprisoned  tea  days;  the  servant  that  takes  more  to  be 
imprisoned  twenty-one  days.  Every  promise  or  gift 
■whatever  to  the  eonti'ary  shall  be  void.  We,  the  said 
justices,  shall  make  strict  eurjuiries,  and  see  the  defaults 
against  these  ancient  and  useful  statutes  severely  cor- 
rected and  punished." 

Free  society  is  a  recent  and  small  experiment. 
The  English  Poor  Laws  and  the  English  poor,  con- 
stitute its  only  history ;  for  only  in  England  has 
the  experiment  been  made  on  a  large  scale  for  seve- 
ral centuries.  If  we  have  not  proved  its  total  and 
disastrous  failure  in  England,  in  our  Sociology,  and 
in  this  chapter,  we  are  resolved  to  prove  it  before 
■we  have  done. 

It  is  a  favorite  political  maxim  of  Englishmen, 
that  taxation  and  representation  should  go  hand  in 
hand  ;  and  that  none  shall  be  taxed  without  their 
own  consent.  Yet  in  Great  Britain,  the  working 
men,  who  pay  every  cent  of  tax,  are  not  repre- 
sented at  all,  have  no  vote  in  elections,  and  are 
taxed  without  and  against  their  own  consent;  ■whilst 
the  capitalist  class,  who  pay  no  taxes,  but,  as  Ger- 
rit  Smith  truly  says,  are  the  mere  conduits,  that 
pass  them  from  the  laborers  to  the  government. 
This  vampire  capitalist  class  impose  all  the  taxes, 
and  pay  none.  Alas!  poor  human  nature!  It  is 
ever  grasping  at  truth,  and  hugging  itself. 


17G  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XII. 

THE  FRENCH  LABORERS  AND  THE  FRENCH 
REVOLUTION. 

Each  of  the  many  French  revolutions  was  occa- 
sioned bj  destitution  almost  amounting  to  famine 
among  the  laboring  classes.  Each  ^vas  the  insur- 
rection of  labor  against  capital.  But  until  the  rev- 
olution of  1848,  the  revolutionists  Avere  unconscious 
alike  of  their  motives  and  their  objects.  They  be- 
lieved, till  then,  that  political  changes  would 
remedy  the  evils  -which  oppressed  them.  After  the 
revolution  of  1830,  pliilosophers  and  statesmen, 
seeing  the  inadequacy  of  change  of  dynasty  or  of 
political  policy,  to  alleviate  the  distresses  of  the 
great  Avorking  classes,  began  to  search  deeper  for 
the  causes  of  social  embarrassment.  Suddenly  the 
discovery  was  made,  not  only  in  France,  but 
throughout  Western  Europe,  that  the  disease  was 
social,  not  political.  That  it  was  owing  to  the  too 
unecpial  distribution  of  capital,  and  to  its  exploita- 
tion of  labor.  Tlic  ablest  minds  saw,  as  well  in 
Enjjland  as  in  France,  that  in  transferrin rr  the 
reins  of  government  from  the  hands  of  hereditary 
royalty  and  nobility,  to  those  of  the  capitalist 
class,  that  the  people  had  exchanged  a  few  masters 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        177 

for  thousands  of  extortioners.  Never  did  so  vast  a 
moral,  intellectual  and  social  movement  arise  so 
suddenly,  and  spread  so  rapidly.  The  thing  be- 
came the  rage  and  fashion.  Even  in  America,  our 
Northern  folks  affected  a  disease,  which  they  did 
not  feel,  just  as  Alexander's  courtiers  aped  his  wry 
neck  ;  and  anti-rentism  and  land  monopoly  became 
the  constant  theme  of  conversation,  lectures, 
speeches,  books  and  essays.  In  France  and  in 
England,  prior  to  1830,  there  had  been  a  few  So- 
cialists, such  as  Fourier  and  St.  Simon,  Owen  and 
Fanny  Wright — but  they  were  little  heeded,  and 
generally  considered  about  half  crazy.  Immedi- 
ately thereafter,  by  far  the  greater  portion  of  the 
literary  mind  of  Europe  imbibed,  in  whole  or  in 
part,  the  doctrines  of  these  early  Socialists.  The 
infection  soon  reached  the  lower  classes,  and  occa- 
sioned revolution,  intended  to  be  social  as  well  as 
political,  throughout  Western  Europe.  The  Provi- 
sional Government  in  France,  which  immediately 
succeeded  to  the  expulsion  of  Louis  Philippe,  was 
composed  entirely  of  Socialists,  and  its  programme 
and  attempted  measures  were  thoroughly  socialistic. 
The  subject  of  the  condition  of  the  laboring 
classes  in  Europe,  and  especially  in  France,  was 
handled  -with  an  accuracy  of  detail  and  a  breadth 
of  scientific  expression  in  a  review  of  our  own 
work  in  the  Literary  Messenger  of  March,  1855, 
of  which  we  are  incapable.     The  author,  Professor 


178  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

II.  of  Virginia,  is  our  corresponding  acquaintance 
onlj.  Informed  by  letter  that  he  would  review  us, 
and  that  he  concurred  in  the  general  truth  of  our 
theory,  we  suggested  to  him  in  reply,  that  he 
should,  from  his  vast  stores  of  learning,  strengthen 
our  main  positions.  He  thought  the  suggestion  a 
good  one,  and  fulfilled  our  request,  with  an  ability 
and  learning,  that  no  other  man,  on  so  short  a  no- 
tice, could  have  done.  As  we  have  prompted,  if 
not  caused  his  toil,  we  make  no  apology  for  appro- 
priating so  much  of  his  review  as  seems  to  be  a 
reply  to  our  suggestion  : 

From  the  principles  as  laid  down  in  theory  and  exem- 
plified in  practice,  we  proceed  to  the  effects.  That  re- 
ligion has  been  undermined,  morals,  contaminated,  crime 
increased,  misery  extended,  deepened  and  multiplied, 
want  and  starvation  augmented,  society  agitated,  and 
orderly  government  endangered  by  the  progress  of  the 
so-called  prosperity  of  the  free  labor  system,  is  evident, 
without  further  proof,  to  any  one  who  reads  contempo- 
rary literature,  who  pays  attention  to  the  statements  o* 
newspapers,  and  of  Poor  Law  Reports,  who  notes  the 
cases  brought  before  the  police  or  criminal  courts,  or  is 
cognizant  from  any  source  of  information,  of  the  actual 
condition  of  the  multitude  and  of  the  poor  in  England, 
Scotland,  Ireland,  France,  Germany,  Prussia,  and  parts 
of  Switzerland,  and  in  New  England  and  the  Northern 
States.  The  connection  of  the  results  with  the  causes^ 
is  ably  traced  by  Mr.  Fitzhugh,  but  not  with  sufficient 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        179 

care,  minuteness  and  precision  ;  and  tbe  actual  cliaracter 
and  enormity  of  the  results  is  exhibited  by  him,  and  by 
an  indefinite  array  of  the  most  various  and  unexception- 
able testimony.  The  History  of  the  Working  Classes, 
by  Robert  du  Yar,  which  we  have  joined  with  the  So- 
ciology for  the  South,  as  the  text  for  the  present  observa- 
tions, is  full  of  evidence  to  this  effect  with  regard  to 
France;  and  for  the  other  countries  specified,  ample  tes- 
timony may  be  easily  obtained.  The  Boston  papers  will 
suffice  to  illustrate  the  wretchedness  of  the  laboring 
classes  in  New  England  :  the  New  York  Herald  and 
Tribune,  the  works  of  Stephen  Pearl  Andrews,  and  of 
Greeley  himself,  will  render  the  same  service  for  the 
other  Northern  States  :  Alton  Locke,  Mary  Barton,  May- 
hew's  London  Labor  and  the  London  Poor,  the  debates 
in  Parliament,  the  Reports  of  the  Poor  Law  Commis- 
sioners, and  the  English  Reviews,  will  amply  illustrate 
the  condition  of  Grreat  Britain  and  Ireland;  and  for 
Germany,  reference  may  be  made  to  Hacklander's  Euro- 
parsches  Sclavenleben,  a  work  which  has  followed  the 
example  of  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin,  and  portrayed  the  condi- 
tion of  the  inferior  classes  in  Europe,  as  a  much  more 
legitimate  object  of  European  sympathy  and  considera- 
tion than  American  Slavery.  Where  the  evidence  is  so 
abundant  and  voluminous,  selection  would  be  as  unneces- 
sary as  it  would  be  tedious.  It  is  within  the  reach  of 
every  one  who  desires  to  consult  it;  and  we  need  not 
load  our  pages  with  extracts  to  prove  what  has  been  fre- 
quently and  sufficiently  proved  before,  and  what  is  so 
notoriously  true  as  to  be  undeniable.  A  few  quotations 
to  illustrate  the  condition   of  free   labor  societies  we  may 


180  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

iiulced  quote  at  a  later  period,  in  connection  with  a  dif- 
ferent division  of  llic  argument;  but  they  are  ■wholly 
unnecessary  to  confirm  the  allegation  of  the  wretchedness 
and  depravity  which  are  consuming  the  vitals  of  the 
principal  free  soeieties  of  the  Nineteenth  Century.  They 
are  rendered  still  more  unnecessary  by  the  fact  that  the 
acceptability  of  Socialism  in  all  of  those  communities, 
betrays  the  extent  of  both  the  miserj'  and  the  social  dis- 
ease to  be  cured;  and  the  confession  of  the  multitude  of 
recent  writers  on  social  topics,  admits  not  merely  the 
evils  whieli  Ave  have  spccilied,  and  their  dependence  on 
the  theory  and  practice  of  free  societies,  but  acknowl- 
edges also  the  truth  of  the  general  conclusion,  that  the 
free  societies  enumerated  have  unquestionably  failed, 
they  have  not  produced  the  permanent  or  general  bless- 
ings anticipated  from  them,  they  have  produced  over- 
whelming social  disaster,  multiplied  indefinitely  the  woes 
and  the  vices  of  the  poor,  threatened  all  society  and  gov- 
ernment and  national  existence  in  those  communities,  and 
announced  a  future  so  dark  that  little  more  than  its 
gloom  and  spectral  shapes  can  be  distinctly  recognized. 

We  regard  Mr.  Fitzhugh's  employment  of  these  ad- 
uiis.sions  by  European  writers  and  Northern  reformers, 
as  constituting  the  most  important  position  of  his  argu- 
ment, and  the  most  characteristic  novelty  in  his  defence 
of  the  South.  The  testimunies  which  he  adduces  are 
very  strong  and  pointed,  but  they  may  be  easily  multi- 
plied, and  will  gain  an  accession  of  strength  from  such 
multiplications.  For  years  we  have  carefully  collected 
similar  acknowledgments  from  foreign  writers,  and  cheer- 
fully contribute  them  to  the  cause  of  the  South,  and  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        181 

fortification  of  Mr.  Fitzlnigh's  position.  And  let  it  be 
reuieinbeved,  that  neither  in  the  Sociology  for  the  South, 
nor  in  the  quotations  which  will  be  shortly  introduced 
here,  is  the  sole  or  principal  obligation  due  to  Chartists, 
Socialists,  Communists,  or  Agrarians  of  any  sort.  From 
such  authors  some  admissions  have  been  received,  but 
the  chief  contributions  are  derived  from  those  who  have 
been  the  most  strenuous  supporters  of  past  social  ar- 
rangements, and  who,  notwithstanding  a  great  diversity 
of  views,  abilities,  studies,  and  opportunities  of  knowl- 
edge, stlil  represent  the  sober  conservative  sense  of  their 
respective  communities.  ^Ve  regret  that  Mr.  Fitzhugh 
should  have  extended  so  much  countenance  to  the  Social- 
ists, and  should  have  partially  identified  Socialism  and 
Slavery,  but  the  strongest  part  of  his  testimonies  to  the 
failure  of  free  societies,  is  derived  from  other  declarations 
than  theirs,  and  we  shall  imitate  his  example. 

"We  begin,  however,  with  a  Socialist,  but  almost  the 
only  one  whom  we  shall  summon  to  the  stand : 

''The  French  Eevolution  was  an  abortion.  The  trad- 
ing classes  (/«  hotirycoisie)  organized  themselves  in  the 
name  of  capital,  and,  instead  of  becoming  a  man,  the 
serf  became  a  proletaire.  "What  then  was  his  situation? 
The  most  painful  of  all,  the  most  intolerable  which  can 
be  conceived.  Like  all  the  proletaires,  the  trading  classes 
had  shouted:  'Liberty,  Equality^,  Fraternity.'  The  re- 
sult has  been  that  every  thing  which  was  proletaire — that 
is  to  say,  all  those  who  have  no  capital,  groan  under  the 
most  cruel  usage  (j'jj)Io!fation.')  They  cannot  be  free- 
men, nor  brothers,  nor  ec^uals.  Not  free,  because  their 
daily  bread  depends  on  a  thousand  accidents    produced 


182  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

and  engendered  by  the  competition  of  capitalists  among 
theuiselves ;  not  brothers,  because,  with  hearts  crushed 
and  hicerated  by  tlic  evils  which  overwh'.'lm  them,  they 
cannot  love  those  whose  creed  is  so  fatal  to  them;  not 
equals,  because  capital  being  the  supreme  law,  it  is  only 
through  it  tliat  any  participation  or  concurrence  in  social 
power  is  possible."  * 

An  apology  is  due  for  not  attempting  to  translate  the 
term  proletaires  in  the  above  passage,  but  every  one  fa- 
miliar with  the  condition  of  modern  free  societies,  is 
aware  that  it  is  absolutely  untranslateable.  It  is  an  in- 
dispensable word  in  modern  times,  and  the  impossibility 
of  avoiding  its  use  is  a  stronger  proof  of  the  failure  of 
free  societies,  than  the  invention  of  the  phrase  Sociology, 
which  Mr.  Fiszhui-h  regards  in  this  litiht.  It  ouo'ht  to 
be  unhesitatingly  introduced  into  the  English  language; 
it  can  boast  of  a  very  respectable  Latin  descent;  it  oc- 
curs in  the  XII  Tables,  and  originally  signified  a  person 
of  the  lowest  class,  too  poor  to  pay  taxes,  and  unable  to 
serve  the  State  otherwise  than  by  raising  children  and 
thus  increasing  the  population"}" — a  very  doubtful  service 
in  modern  Europe. 

We  return  to  Mr.  Kobert  du  Var : 

"It  must  be  remarked,  that  what  is  called  pauperism, 
this  sore,  this  ulcer,  which  infests,  and  more  and  more 
consumes  the  body  social,  could  not  exist  in  the  same  de- 
gree amongst  the  nations  of  antiquity.     It  is  a  phenom- 


*  Robert  (du  Var.)  Hist,  de  la  Classe  Oiivriere.  Dcdicacc  aui 
Travailleurs.  tome.  I.  p.  X-XI. 

t  Auliis  Oclliiis.  Noct.  Alt.  lib.  XYI,  c.  X. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        18-3 

cnon  which  could  only  arise  as  the  consequence  of  the 
transformation  of  shivery  into  serfdom,  and  of  serfdom 
into  free  hibor  (proletariat.')  *  *  *  In  antiquity, 
every  one,  whether  free  or  not,  citizen  or  slave,  was  al- 
ways connected  with  some  centre  which  ensured  at  least 
his  material  support."  * 

"As  a  result  of  the  individual  liberty,  independent  of 
any  central  power,  proclaimed  by  Christianity,  favored 
and  developed  by  the  instincts  of  the  Northern  barbari- 
ans, legitimated  and  transformed  into  a  social  doctrine  by 
the  institution  of  Communes,  was  formed  and  agglome- 
rated throughout  Europe  an  innumerable  population, 
having  no  material  connection  with  the  regular  society, 
and  having  for  itself  nothing  but  the  most  naked  lib- 
erty, that  is  to  say,  misery,  poverty,  isolation.  Thence 
issued  the  poor,  the  beggars,  the  thieves — in  one  word, 
parias  of  every  description,  with  whom  society  was  com- 
pelled to  compound,  willingly  or  reluctantly,  by  the 
foundation  of  establishments  intended  to  palliate  the 
bleeding  wound  of  the  pauperism  which  had  been  engen- 
dered by  liberty."  f 

"From  whatever  point  the  modern  system  is  regarded, 
it  seems  impossible  not  to  recognize  that  the  Politico- 
economical  rule  of  free  competition  is  the  negation,  as  its 
name  indicates,  of  all  ties  and  communion  of  interests 
between  the  members  of  society.     Free  competition'  is  a 


*HiHt.  de  la  Classe  Ouvriere.  liv.  IX.  chap.  VII.  tome.  III.  p. 
100. 

fHist.  de  la  Classe  Ouv.  liv.  IX.  cliap.  VII.  p.  102,  tome.  III. 
p.  102. 


184  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

free  field  open  to  every  individual,  provided  or  not  with 
the  elements  necessary  and  indispensable  to  its  manifesta- 
tions;  free  competition,  in  a  word,  is  liberty,  but  liberty 
■uithout  other  rule  than  the  material  and  moral  furce,  of 
which  each  one  may  be  able  to  dispose  in  the  presence  of 
the  thousand  causes  which  produce  a  difference  in  the 
position  of  individuals."* 

''But,  we  say  that  a  system  which  thus  arms,  morally, 
the  poor  against  each  other,  is  a  barbarous  system,  and 
contrary  to  civilization  :  it  is  barbarous,  inasmuch  as  it 
developes  all  the  bad  tendencies  of  the  hunum  heart:  it 
is  contrary  to  civilization,  because,  instead  of  facilitating 
harmonious  relations  among  men,  it  inclines  them  to 
mutual  repulsion  and  hostility.""}" 

This  is  a  sufficient  sample  of  M.  Robert  du  Yar's  tes- 
timony. 'J'he  greater  part  of  his  work  is  to  the  same 
effect :  and  there  is  a  singular  accordance  between  his 
censures  of  Political  Economy,!  and  those  uttered  by 
Mr.  Fitzhugh.     They  merit  especial  attention. 

We  will  cite  another  Socialist,  M.  Vidal : 

'•The  ox,  the  horse,  the  hog  eat  according  to  their 
hunger :  their  desires  are  even  anticipated  :  they  have 
their  subsistence  assured.  It  is  the  same  thing  in  the 
case  of  the  slave.  For  the  ox,  the  horse,  the  hog,  the 
slave,  belong  to  a  master,  and  their  loss  is  the  loss  of  the 
owner  :  res  2)erU  domino,  says  the  Digest.  But  with  the 
hired   laborer  it  is  different !     He    beloncs  to   himself 


*Ibid.  No.  XIV.  clnip.  L  tome.  IV.  p.  285-6. 
flbid.  No.  XIIL  chap.  II.  tome.  IV.  p.  247. 
llbid.  No.  XII.  chap.  111.  tome.  IV.  p.  50-105. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  185 

His  death  is  tlic  loss  of  bis  family  whom  he  maintained, 
and  ■who  will  no  longer  find  the  means  of  living.  What 
matter  to  an  employer  is  the  death  of  a  hired  laborer? 
Are  there  not  every  where  millions  of  arms  always  ready 
to  offer  themselves  at  reduced  wages  ?  "  * 

Let  us  turn  to  evidence  of  a  different  character.  Here 
is  Sir  Robert  Peel's  testimony  to  the  condition  of  Ire- 
land before  ]  844,  previous  to  the  potato-rot  an  1  the 
famine  : 

"It  may  be  assured  that  the  fourth  class  of  houses, 
(according  to  the  census,)  are  generally  unfit  for  human 
habitation ;  and  yet  it  would  appear  that  in  the  best  cir- 
cumstanced county,  in  tliis  respect,  the  county  of  Down, 
24.7  per  cent.,  or  one-fourth  of  the  population,  live  in 
houses  of  this  class :  while  in  Kerr}'-,  the  population  is 
6G.7  per  cent.,  or  about  two-thirds  of  the  whole;  and, 
taking  the  average  of  the  whole  population  of  Ireland,  as 
given  by  the  census  commissioner,  we  find  that  in  the 
rural  districts  about  43  per  cent,  of  the  families,  and  in 
the  civic  districts,  about  36  per  cent,  inhabit  houses  of 
the  fourth  class.     *     *     * 

"  The  lowest,  or  fourth  class,  remember,  comprises  all 
mud  cabins,  having  but  one  room."  f 

Mr.  Kay,  from  whom  the  foregoing  remarks  of  Sir 
Robert  Peel  are  quoted,  thus  comments  upon  a  murder 
committed  in  open  day  in  Ireland.  The  two  murderers 
had  escaped : 

"■^Vidal.  EeiDartition  dcs  Kicbe.sses.  ptic.  II.  cli;ip.  III. 

f  The  Social  Condition  and  Education  of  tlie  People  of  Eng- 
land and  Europe.  Bj  Joseph  Kay,  Esq.,  M.  A.,  chap.  I,  vol. 
I,  p.  314. 


186  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

''Why,"  he  asks,  "were  not  these  men  apprehended? 
Because  of  the  rottenness  that  there  is  in  the  state  of 
society  in  these  districts;  because  of  the  sympathy  which 
there  is  on  the  part  of  the  great  bulk  of  the  population 
with  those  who,  by  these  dreadful  acts  of  vengeance,  are 
supposed  to  be  the  conservators  of  the  rights  of  the  ten- 
ant, and  supposed  to  give  him  that  protection  which  im- 
perial legislation  has  denied.  The  first  thing  that  ever 
called  my  attention  to  the  condition  of  Ireland,  was  the 
reading  an  account  of  one  of  these  outrages.  I  thought 
of  it  for  a  moment,  but  the  truth  struck  me  at  once  : 
and  all  I  have  seen  since  confirms  it.  When  law  refuses 
its  duty — when  government  denies  the  right  of  a  people 
— when  competition  is  so  fierce  for  the  little  land,  which 
the  monopolists  grant  to  cultivation  in  Ireland — when,  in 
fact,  for  a  bare  potato,  millions  are  scrambling,  these  peo- 
ple are  driven  back  from  law  and  from  the  usages  of  civ- 
ilization to  that  which  is  termed  the  law  of  nature,  and, 
if  not  of  the  strongest,  the  law  of  the  vindictive ;  and  in 
this  case  the  people  of  Ireland  believe,  to  my  certain 
knowledge,  that  it  is  only  by  these  acts  of  vengeance, 
periodically  committed,  that  they  can  hold  in  suspense 
the  arm  of  the  proprietor  and  the  agent,  who,  in  too 
many  cases,  if  he  dared,  would  exterminate  them."* 

A  pretty  result,  this,  for  free  labor  and  free  competi- 
tion, and  abolitionism,  to  have  arrived  at.  But  Ireland 
was  always  esteemed  un  mauvais  sujet.  Let  us  cross  St. 
George's  Channel : 


*  Kay,  Social  Condition,  &c.,  of  England  and  Europe,  cbap. 
I,  vol.  i,  p.  317-318. 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  187 

"The  English  peasant  is  thus  deprived  of  almost  every 
motive  to  practice  economy,  and  self-denial,  bej-ond  what 
suffices  to  provide  his  family  with  food  and  clothing. 
Once  a  peasant  in  England,  and  a  man  cannot  hope  that 
he  himself,  or  his  children,  will  ever  be  anything  better, 
than  a  mere  laborer  for  weekly  hire. 

''This  unhappy  feature  of  an  English  peasant's  life 
was  most  powerfully,  and  only  too  justly  depicted  in 
those  articles  of  '  The  I'imes,'  to  which  I  have  referred 
above.  It  was  there  shown  that  during  the  last  half  cen- 
tury, every  thing  has  been  done  to  deprive  the  peasant  of 
any  interest  in  the  preservation  of  public  order;  of  any 
wish  to  maintain  the  existing  constitution  of  society;  of 
all  hope  of  raising  himself  in  the  world,  or  of  improving 
his  condition  of  life;  of  all  attachment  to  his  country; 
of  all  feelings  of  there  really  existing  any  community  of 
interest  between  himself  and  the  higher  ranks  of  society; 
and  of  all  consciousness  that  he  has  anything  to  lose  by 
political  changes ;  and  that  every  thing  has  been  done  to 
render  him  dissatisfied  with  his  condition,  envious  of  the 
richer  classes,  and  discontented  with  the  existing  order  of 
things."  * 

This,  too,  is  a  pretty  picture,  which  is  not  relieved  by 
the  further  information  that, 

"In  the  year  1770,  there  were,  it  is  said,  in  England 
alone,  250,000  freehold  estates  in  the  hands  of  250,000 
different  families.  In  the  year  1815,  at  the  close  of  the 
revolutionary  war,  the  whole  of   the   lands   of   England 


*Kay,  chap.  II,  vol.  I,  p.  361. 


188  CANNIBALS   ALL;   OR, 

were  concentrated  in  the  hands  of  only  32,000  pro- 
prietors." * 

"What  is  the  result?  The  hibnr  market  in  the  manu- 
fivcturing  towns  is  constantly  overstocked;  the  laborers 
and  shopkeepers  find  new  and  eager  competitors  con- 
stantly added  to  the  list;  competition  in  the  towns  is 
rendered  unnaturally  intense ;  profits  and  wages  are  both 
unnaturally  reduced  ;  the  town  work-houses  and  the  town 
gaols  are  crowded  with  inmates;  the  inhabitants  are 
overburthened  with  rates;  and  tlie  towns  swarm  with 
paupers  and  misery. 

"I  know  not  what  others  may  think,  but  to  me  it  is  a 
sad  and  grievous  spectacle,  to  see  the  enormous  amount 
of  vice  and  degraded  misery  wdiich  our  towns  exhibit, 
and  then  to  think,  that  we  are  doing  all  we  can  to  foster 
and  stimulate  the  growth  and  extension  of  this  state  of 
things,  by  that  system  of  laws,  which  drives  so  many  of 
the  peasants  of  both  England  and  Ireland  to  the  towns, 
and  increases  the  already  vast  mass  of  misery  by  so 
doing. 

"I  speak  with  deliberation,  when  I  say,  that  I  know 
of  no  spectacle  so  degraded,  and  if  I  may  be  allowed  to 
use  a  strong  word,  so  horrible,  as  the  back  streets  and 
suburbs  of  English  and  Irish  towns,  with  their  filthy 
inhabitants;  with  their  crowds  of  half-clad,  filthy,  and 
degraded  children,  playing  in  the  dirty  kennels;  with 
their  numerous  gin-palaces,  filled  with  people,  whose 
hands  and  faces  show  how  their  flesh  is,  so  to  speak,  im- 


*Kay,  chap.  II,  2ud  vol.,  p.  370.  citing  Rev.  H.  Worsley's  Es- 
say oil  Juvenile  Depravity,  p.  53. 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  189 

prcgnatcd  witli  spirituous  liquors — the  only  solaces,  poor 
creatures,  that  tlioy  have  ! — and  with  poor  young  girls, 
wliom  a  want  of  religious  training  in  their  infancy,  and 
misery,  has  driven  to  the  most  degraded  and  pitiful  of 
all  pursuits/'  * 

''Of  IGOO,  [pauper  children  in  London,]  who  were 
examined,  1G2  confessed  that  they  had  been  in  prison, 
,not  merely  once,  nor  even  twice,  but  some  of  them  seve- 
ral times;  116  had  run  away  from  their  homes;  170 
slept  in  the  "lodging-houses;"  253  had  lived  altogether 
by  beggary ;  216  had  neither -shoes  nor  stockings;  280 
had  no  hat  or  cap,  or  covering  for  the  head;  101  had  no 
linen ;  349  had  never  slept  in  a  bed ;  many  had  no 
recollection  of  ever  having  been  in  a  bed;  68  were  the 
children  of  convicts."  f 

''The  further  we  examine,  the  more  painful,  disgust- 
ing and  incredible  does  the  tale  become. 

"We  see  on  every  hand  stately  palaces,  to  which  no 
country  in  the  world  offers  any  parallel.  The  houses  of 
our  rich  are  more  gorgeous  and  more  luxurious  than 
those  of  any  other  land.  Every  clime  is  ransacked  to 
adorn  or  furnish  them.  The  soft  carpets,  the  heavy  rich 
curtains,  the  luxuriously  easy  couches,  the  beds  of  down, 
the  services  of  plate,  the  numerous  servants,  the  splendid 
equipages,  and  all  the  expensive  objects  of  literature, 
science,  and  the  arts,  which  crowd  the  palaces  of  Eng- 
land, form  but  items  in  an   ensemhle  of   refinement  and 


*Kay,  cliap.  I,  vol.  I,  p.  372-3. 
f  Kay,  chap.  I,  vol.  I,  p.  C95. 


190  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

magnificence,  ■which  ■was  never  imagined  or  approached, 
in  all  the  s>)lei)dor  of"  the  ancient  er'.pires. 

"J3ut  look  beneath  all  this  display  and  luxury,  and 
•what  do  yve  see  there  ?  A  pauperized  and  suffering 
people. 

"To  maintain  a  show,  we  have  degraded  the  masses, 
until  ■R'c  have  created  an  evil  so  vast,  that  we  now  despair 
of  ever  finding  a  remedy."  *  « 

AVe  may  now  dismiss  Mr.  Ka}' — this  testimony  is  suf- 
ficientl}^  direct  and  sufficiently  ample  :  and  yet  it  would 
have  been  easy  to  have  introduced  many  more  and 
stronger  statements  made  by  him,  ■which  have  been  omit- 
ted because  they  were  too  long  to  be  quoted.  Mr.  Kay 
is  neither  Chartist  nor  Socialist.  He  is  a  graduate  of 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  a  Barrister-at-law,  and  has 
traveled  over  Europe  for  eight  years,  under  an  appoint- 
ment from  the  Senate  of  the  University  of  Cambridge, 
as  Traveling  Bachelor  of  the  University,  commissioned 
"  to  travel  through  Western  Europe  in  order  to  examine 
the  social  condition  of  the  poorer  classes  of  the  different 
countries.""}"  The  evidence  of  such  a  man  should  be 
authoritative,  but  we  will  continue  our  quotations : 

"It  is  undeniable  that  morality  has  declined  in  our 
days  ■with  the  progress  of  knowledge."  J 

"  One  ■word  more,  and  we  have  done.  On  many  C[ues- 
tions  of  practical  dut}-,  men  are  now  affecting  to  be  wiser 


■*Kay,  cbap.  I,  vol.  I,  p.  452-3. 
f  Kay,  chap.  I,  vol.  I,  p.  4. 

JSaisset,  Sur  la  PhilosopLie  et  la  Religion  du  XIX.  Siccle.  p 
222. 


SLAVES  WIXnOUT    MASTERS.  191 

and  better  than  the  Bible.  Plans  of  social  progress  and 
improvement  are  rife,  that  have  an  air  of  transcendental 
refinement  about  them,  unknown  to  the  homely  morality 
of  the  Word  of  God.  We  are  becoming  too  sentimental 
to  endure  that  even  the  murderer  shall  be  put  to  death. 
And  now  we  are  for  bettering  God's  ordinance  of  mar- 
riage itself;  and  we  see  a  fine,  romantic,  tender  charm  in 
an  alliance  of  brothers  and  sisters,  on  which  God  has 
stamped  his  curse.  What  may  such  things  betoken  ? 
Are  they  ominous  of  such  unbridled  lawlessness  and  lust 
as  marked  the  days  before  the  Flood  ?  Are  they  signs 
of  the  days  not  unlike  these  that  are  to  precede  the 
coming  of  the   Son  of   Man  ?"  '*'" 

"  The  task  of  restoring  health  and  soundness  to  a  so- 
ciety so  feai  fully  diseased  as  ours  unquestionably  is,  is 
on  all  hands  acknowledged  to  be  at  onee  the  noblest  and 
the  most  imperative  to  which  citizens  or  statesrnen  can 
now  direct  their  energies."  f 

'' Society,  such  as  it  now  is  in  England,  will  not  con- 
tinue to  endure,  &c."  | 

"  The  last  battle  of  civilization  is  the  severest :  the 
last  problem  the  knottiest  to  solve.  Out  of  all  the  mul- 
titudinous ingi'edients  and  influences  of  the  past;  out  of 
the  conquest  of  nature,  and  the  victory  of  freedom ;  out 
of  the  blending  and  intermixture  of  all  previous  forms 


*  North  British  Review,  No.  XXIV,  Art.  IX,  Feb.  1850.  p. 
290-300.  Am.  Ed. 

fEdingb.  Rev.  Oct.  1849.  Art.  VI,  p.  497-8.  Engl.  Ed. 

j  Chateaubriand.  Essays  on  English  Literature.  Paris.  1838, 
cite  1  by  Knj. 


192  CANNIBALS  ALL  ;    OR, 

of  polity  and  modifications  of  humanity,  has  arisen  a 
complex  order  of  society,  of  -which  the  disorders  and 
anomalies  arc  as  complex  as  its  own  structure.  We  are 
now  summoned  to  the  combat,  not  with  material  difficul- 
ties, nor  yet  with  oppressors  nor  with  priests,  but  with 
an  imperfect  and  diseased  condition  of  that  social  world 
of  which  wc  form  a  part;  with  pains  and  evils  appalling 
in  their  magnitude,  baflling  in  their  subtlety,  perplexing 
in  their  complication,  and  demanding  far  more  clear  in- 
sight and  unerring  judgment,  than  even  purity  of  pur- 
pose, or  commanding  energy  of  will.  This  conflict  may 
be  said  to  date  from  the  first  French  Revolution ;  and  it 
has  been  increasing  in  intensity  ever  since,  till  it  has 
reached  to  a  vividness  and  solemnity  of  interest,  which 
surpasses  and  overshadows  the  attx'actions  of  all  other 
topics,  &c.  &c."  ''' 

"  England's  rapidly  accelerating  decline  is  a  very  re- 
markable and  mournful  phenomenon;  it  is  a  mortal  sick- 
ness for  which  there  is  no  remedy.  I  liken  the  English 
of  the  present  day  to  the  llomans  of  the  third  century 
after  Christ."  f 

The  analogy  might  be  extended  to  nearly  all  of  modern 
civilization. 

"  Tremendous  catastrophes  have  come  to  pass,  and 
there  is  no  resistance  ;  not  a  semblance  of  great  men,  no 
joy  or  enthusiasm,  no  hopes  for  the  future,  except  that 
the  time  will  one  day  come,  when  by  means  of  mutual 
instruction  every  peasant  boy  shall  be  able  to  read.     The 


*  AVestmintter  Review,  No.  CXL  Art.  III.  Jau.  0.  1852. 
f  Niebuhr.  Life  and  Letters,  p.  506. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  193 

truth  of  the  thing  is  the  unveiled  destitution  of  the  pop- 
ulace, who  arc  resolved  to  bear  it  no  longer,  and  this 
again  paves  the  way  for  a  revision  of  property ;  ■which  is 
not,  indeed,  something  new  under  the  sun,  but  has  been 
unheard  of  for  centuries  past,  and  even  now  seems  quite 
inconceivable  to  our  politicians,  who  have  set  property, 
in  the  place  of  God,  in  the  Holiest  of  Holies,  &c,  &c."* 
AVe  cannot  venture  to  extend  our  extracts,  though  we 
have  the  materials  before  us  to  increase  them  ten — nay, 
twenty-fold.  We  contribute  these  merely  as  a  confir- 
mation of  Mr.  Fitzhugh's  position,  that,  really  and 
confessedly.  Free  Society  has  proved  a  calamitous  and 
irremediable  failure  in  the  principal  communities  of 
Christendom. 

*  Niebuhr,  Ibid.  p.  528.     See  also,  p.  525. 


194  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XIII. 

THE  llEFORMATION— THE  RIGHT  OF  PRIVATE 
JUDGMENT. 

The  Reformation,  like  the  American  Revolution, 
•was  originated  and  conducted  to  successful  issue  by 
■wise,  good  and  practical  men,  whose  intuitive  judg- 
ments and  sagacious  instincts  enabled  thsm  to  feel 
their  way  through  the  difficulties  that  environed 
them.  Wise  men  know  that  there  is  too  much  of 
complexity  in  the  tangled  web  of  human  affairs,  to 
justify  the  attempt  at  once  to  practice  and  philoso- 
phise, to  act  and  to  reason.  Fools  and  philoso- 
phers too  often  mar  the  good  works  of  such  men, 
by  pretending  to  see  clearly,  and  to  define  accu- 
rately, the  principles  of  action  which  have  led  to 
those  works.  A  Washington,  a  Peel,  or  a  Welling- 
ton, never  "writes  himself  down  an  ass"  by  ap- 
pealing  to  abstract  principles  to  justify  measures 
which  are  rendered  necessary  by  a  thousand  minute 
and  peculiar  circumstances  of  the  hour,  which  com- 
mon sense  and  experience  instinctively  appreciate, 
but  Avhich  philosophy  in  vain  attempts  to  detect  or 
to  generalize.  Common  sense  never  attempts  "to 
expel  nature,"  but  suggests  and  carries  through  a 


SLAVES    WITHOUT    MASTERS.  195 

tlioiisanJ  useful  reforms  by  recurrence  to  and  com- 
parison -with  the  i^ast,  and  by  cautious  experi- 
mentation. 

Common  sense  sometimes  errs  by  excess  of  con- 
servation; but  it  is  better  to  err  with  Pope,  who 
thought  "  Whatever  is,  is  right,"  than  Avith  Jefterson, 
whose  everj^  act  and  word  proves  that  he  held  that 
"  Whatever  is,  is  wrong. 

The  Reformation  was  not  the  thought  and  the 
act  of  Luther,  Calvin,  Cranmer  and  Erasmus;  but 
the  thought  and  the  act  of  society — the  vox  Populi, 
vox  Dei.  Pcpes  and  cardinals  are  not  infallible,  but 
society  is.  Its  harmony  is  its  health;  and  to  differ 
with  it  is  heresy  or  treason,  because  social  discord 
inflicts  individual  misery;  and  what  disturbs  and 
disarranges  society,  impairs  the  happiness  and  well- 
being  of  its  members. 

This  doctrine  of  the  infallibility  of  society,  is 
suggested,  though  not  expressed,  in  the  maxim — 
Salus  populi,  est  suprema  lex.  The  Puritans,  in  the 
early  days  of  New  England,  acted  it  out;  and  if 
they  hung  a  few  troublesome  old  women,  the  good 
that  they  achieved  was  more  than  compensated  for 
by  any  errors  they  may  have  committed.  Liberty 
of  the  press,  liberty  of  speech,  freedom  of  religion, 
or  rather  freedom  from  religion,  and  the  unlimited 
right  of  private  judgment,  have  borne  no  good 
fruits,  and  many  bad  ones.  Infidels,  Skeptics,  Mil- 
lerites,    Mormons,    Agrarians,    Spiritual    Rappers, 


196  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

Wakemanitcs,  Free  Negroes  and  Bloomers,  disturb 
the  peace  of  society,  threaten  the  security  of  prop- 
ert}--,  offend  the  public  sense  of  decency,  assail  re- 
ligion, and  invoke  anarchy.  Society  has  the  right, 
and  is  in  duty  bound,  to  take  care  of  itself;  and 
■when  public  opinion  becomes  powerless,  law  should 
intervene,  and  punish  all  acts,  Avords,  or  opinions, 
which  have  become  criminal  by  becoming  danger- 
ous or  injurious. 

We  would  rejoice  to  see  intolerance  of  error  re- 
vived in  New  England.  Laxity  of  rule  and  laxity 
of  public  opinion  is  sin  of  itself,  and  leads  to  thou- 
sands of  sins.  New  England  is  culpable  for  per- 
mitting Parker  and  Beecher  to  stir  up  civil  discord 
and  domestic  broils  from  the  pulpit.  These  men 
doserve  punishment,  for  they  have  instigated  and 
occasioned  a  thousand  murders  in  Kansas  ;  yet  they 
did  nothing  more  than  carry  into  practice  the  right 
of  private  judgment,  liberty  of  speech,  freedom  of 
the  press  and  of  religion.  These  boasted  privileges 
have  become  far  more  dangerous  to  the  lives,  the 
property  and  the  peace  of  the  people  of  this  Union, 
than  all  the  robbers  and  murderers  and  malefactors 
put  together. 

The  Reformation  was  but  an  effort  of  Nature — 
the  vis  medicatrix  naturae — throwing  off  what  was 
false,  vicious,  or  superfluous,  and  retaining  what 
was  good. 

The  great  men  of  the  day  but  show  larger  por- 


SLAVES   "WITHOUT    MASTERS.  197 

tions  of  tlic  comraon  thought.  Men,  and  all  other 
social  and  gregarious  animals,  have  a  community  of 
thought,  of  motions,  instincts  and  intuitions.  The 
social  body  is  of  itself  a  thinking,  acting,  sentient 
being.  This  is  eminently  observable  with  the  lower 
animals.  Bees  and  herds  perform  their  evolutions 
with  too  mucli  rapidity  and  precision,  to  leave  any 
doubt  but  that  one  mind  and  one  feeling,  either 
from  within  or  without,  directs  their  movements. 
The  great  error  of  modern  philosophy  is  the  igno- 
rance or  forgetfulness  of  this  fact.  The  first  de- 
parture from  it  was  not  the  Reformation — for  that 
was  preeminently  a  social  idea  and  a  social  move- 
ment ; — but  the  doctrine  of  the  right  of  private 
judgment,  which  speculative  philosophers  and  vain 
schismatics  attempted  to  engraft  upon  it,  or  deduce 
from  it.  Human  equality,  the  social  contract,  the 
let-alone  and  scliish  doctrines  of  political  economy, 
universal  liberty,  freedom  of  speech,  of  the  press, 
and  of  religion,  spring  directly  from  this  doctrine, 
or  are  only  new  modes  of  expressing  it.  Agrarian- 
ism,  Free  Love,  and  No  Government,  are  its  logi- 
cal sequences:  for  the  right  to  judge  for  ourself 
implies  the  right  to  act  upon  our  judgments,  and 
that  can  never  be  done  in  a  world  where  the  private 
appropriation  of  all  capital,  and  the  interference  of 
government,  restricts  our  free  agency,  and  par- 
alyzes our  action  on  all  sides. 

We  sometimes  think  the  burning  of  the  Alexan- 


198  CANNIBALS   ALL;     OR, 

drlan  Library  was  a  providential  purification,  just 
as  the  fictitious  burning,  by  Cervantes,  of  Don 
Quixote's  library  ridded  the  world  of  the  useless 
rubbish  of  the  Middle  Ages,  by  the  ridicule  so  suc- 
cessfully attached  to  it.  Sure  we  are,  that  a  fire 
that  would  consume  all  the  theological  and  otlier 
philosophical  speculations  of  the  last  tAvo  centuries, 
would  be  a  ha})py  God-send. 

Our  Revolution,  so  wise  in  its  conception  and  so 
glorious  in  its  execution,  was  the  mere  assertion  by 
adults  of  the  rights  of  adults,  and  had  nothing 
more  to  do  with  })hi]osophy  than  the  weaning  of  a 
calf.  It  was  the  act  of  a  people  seeking  national 
independence,  not  the  Utopian  scheme  of  specula- 
tive philosophers,  seeking  to  establish  human  equal- 
ity and  social  perfection. 

But  the  philosophers  seized  upon  it,  as  they  had 
upon  the  Reformation,  and  made  it  the  unwilling 
and  unnatural  parent  of  the  largest  and  most  hide- 
ous brood  of  ills  that  had  ever  appeared  at  one 
birth,  since  the  opening  of  the  box  of  Pandora. 
Bills  of  Rights,  Acts  of  Religious  Freedom  and 
Constitutions,  besprinkled  with  doctrines  directly  at 
war  with  all  stable  government,  seem  to  be  the  ba- 
sis on  which  our  institutions  rest.  But  only  seem 
to  be;  for,  in  truth,  our  laws  and  government  arc 
either  old  Anglo-Saxon  prescriptive  arrangements, 
or  else  the  gradual  accretions  of  time,  circumstance 
and  necessity.     Throw  our  paper  platforms,  pream- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  199 

blcs  and  resolutions,  guaranties  and  constitutions, 
into  the  fire,  and  we  should  be  none  the  worse  off, 
provided  we  retained  our  institutions — and  the  ne- 
cessities that  begat,  and  have,  so  far,  continued 
theui. 

All  government  proceeds  ab  extra.  Neither  in- 
dividuals nor  societies  can  govern  themselves,  any 
more  than  the  mouse  can  live  in  the  exhausted  re- 
ceiver, or  the  clown  lift  himself  bj  the  lappel  of 
his  pantaloons.  The  South  is  governed  by  the  ne- 
cessity of  keeping  its  negroes  in  order,  which  pre- 
serves a  healthy  conservative  public  opinion.  Had 
the  negroes  votes,  the  necessity  Avould  be  removed, 
because  the  interest  of  the  governing  class  would 
cease  to  be  conservative.  The  necessity,  the  gov- 
erning power  ab  extra,  would  be  removed.  The 
little  republics  of  ancient  Greece  were  able  to  pre- 
serve the  most  artificial  social  arrangements,  under 
the  necessities  which  slavery  and  foreign  hostile 
pressure  from  without  begat.  They  were  afraid  of 
chanire,  because  insurrection  was  dano-erous. 

If  government  on  paper  were  really  useless  and 
harmless,  we  should  say  nothing  about  it.  But  it 
is  fraught  with  danger,  first  because  we  are  apt  to 
rely  on  it  for  safety  and  security  of  rights,  and  se- 
condly because  it  rarely  suits  the  occasion.  Men 
and  societies  are  endowed  by  Providence  generally 
with  sufficient  knowledge  and  judgment  to  act  cor- 


200  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

rectly  or  prudently  under  circumstances  as  they 
arise;  but  they  cannot  foresee  or  provide  for  the 
future,  nor  lay  down  rules  for  other  people's  con- 
duct. All  platforms,  resolutions,  hills  of  rights 
and  constitutions,  arc  true  in  the  particular,  false 
in  the  general.  Hence  all  legislation  should  be  re- 
pealable,  and  those  instruments  are  but  laws.  Fun- 
damental principles,  or  the  higher  l.iw,  are  secrets 
of  nature  which  God  keeps  to  himself.  The  vain 
attempt  of  "  frequent  recurrence  to  them,"  is  but 
the  act  of  the  child. who  huilds  card  houses,  for  the 
pleasure  of  knocking  them  down.  Recurrence  to 
fundamental  principles  and  appeals  to  the  higher 
law,  arc  but  the  tocsin  of  revolution  that  may  up- 
set everything,  but  which  will  establish  nothing, 
because  no  two  men  are  agreed  as  to  what  the 
higher  law,  alias  "fundamental  principles,"  is. 
Moses,  and  Lycurgus,  and  Solon,  and  Numa, 
built  their  institutions  to  last,  enjoined  it  on  the 
people  never  to  change  them,  and  threw  around 
them  the  sanctity  of  religion,  to  ward  off  the  sac- 
rilegious hand  of  future  innovation.  "A  frequent 
recurrence  to  fundamental  principles,"  and  the 
kicking  down  of  card  houses,  was  not  part  of  their 
science  of  government.  We  have  often  thought, 
that  of  all  the  lost  arts,  the  art  of  government  was 
the  only  one  whose  loss  we  would  deplore,  or  Avhose 
recovery  is  Avorth  the  pains  of  study  and  research. 


SLAVES   AVITUOUT    MASTERS.  201 

To  US  it  seems  that  "  first  causes,"  "fundamental 
principles,"  and  the  "higher  law,"  mean  one  and 
the  same  thing  :  An  "  ignis  fatuus,"  that  it  is  dan- 
gerous to  pursue,  and  hopeless  to  overtake. 

We  may  be  doing  Mr.  Jefferson  injustice,  in  as- 
suming that  his  "fundamental  principles"  and  Mr. 
ScAvard's  "  higher  law,"  mean  the  same  thing;  but 
tlie  injustice  can  be  vei'y  little,  as  they  both  mean 
just  nothing  at  all,  unless  it  be  a  determination  to 
inaugurate  anarchy,  and  to  do  all  sorts  of  mischief. 
We  refer  the  reader  to  the  chapter  on  the  Declara- 
tion of  Independence,"  &c.,  in  our  Sociology,  for 
a  further  dissertation  on  the  fundamental  poAvder- 
cask  abstractions,  on  Avhich  our  glorious  institutions 
a^^ect  to  repose.  We  say  affect,  because  aa'o  are 
sure  neither  their  repose  nor  their  permanence 
Avould  be  disturbed  by  the  removal  of  the  counter- 
feit foundation. 

The  true  greatness  of  i\Ir.  Jefferson  Avas  his  fit- 
ness for  revolution.  He  Avas  the  genius  of  innova- 
tion, the  architect  of  ruin,  the  inaugurator  of  anar- 
chy. His  mission  AA'as  to  pull  doAvn,  not  to  build  up. 
He  thought  everything  false  as  Avell  in  the  physical, 
as  in  the  moral  Avorld.  He  fed  his  horses  on  pota- 
toes, and  defended  harbors  Avitli  gun-boats,  because 
it  Avas  contrary  to  human  experience  and  human 
opinion.  He  proposed  to  govern  boys  Avithout  the 
authority  of  masters    or    the    control    of  religion, 


202  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

supplying  their  places  with  Laissez-faire  philoso- 
phy, aiul  morality  from  the  pages  of  Lawrence 
Sterne.  His  character,  like  his  philosophy',  is  ex- 
ceptional— invahiable  in  urging  on  revolution,  but 
useless,  if  not  dangerous,  in  quiet  times. 

"VVe  would  not  restrict,  control,  or  take  away  a 
single  human  right  or  liberty,  which  experience 
showed  was  already  sufficiently  governed  and  re- 
stricted by  public  opinion.  But  we  do  believe  that 
the  slaveholding  South  is  the  only  country  on  the 
globe,  that  can  safely  tolerate  the  rights  and  liber- 
ties which  we  have  discussed. 

The  annals  of  revolutionary  Virginia  were  illus- 
trated by  three  great  and  useful  men.  The  mighty 
mind  of  JefFerson,  fitted  to  pull  down  ;  the  plastic 
hand  of  Madison  to  build  up,  and  the  powerful  arm 
of  Washington  to  defend,  sustain  and  conserve. 

We  are  the  friend  of  popular  government,  but 
only  so  long  as  conservatism  is  the  interest  of  the 
governing  class.  At  the  South,  the  interests  and 
feelings  of  many  non-property  holders,  are  identified 
with  those  of  a  comparatively  few  property  holders. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  the  security  of  property,  that 
a  majority  of  voters  should  own  property;  but  where 
the  pauper  majority  becomes  so  large  as  to  discon- 
nect the  mass  of  them  in  feeling  and  interest  from  the 
property  holding  class,  revolution  and  agrarianism 
are  inevitable.     We  will  not  undertake  to  say  that 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  203 

events  are  tending  this  Tvay  at  the  North.  The 
absence  of  laws  of  entail  and  primogeniture  may 
prevent  it ;  yet  we  fear  the  worst ;  for,  despite  the 
laws  of  equal  inheritance  and  distribution,  wealth 
is  accumulating  in  few  hands,  and  pauperism  is  in- 
creasing. We  shall  attempt  hereafter  to  show  that 
a  system  of  very  small  entails  might  correct  this 
tendency. 


204  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XIV  . 

THE    NOMADIC    BEGGARS    AND  PAUPER   BANDITTI  OF 
ENGLAND. 

Under  various  names,  such  as  Proletariat  in 
France,  Lazzaroni  in  Italy,  Leperos  in  Mexico, 
and  Gypsies  throughout  all  Europe,  free  society  is 
disturbed  and  rendered  insecure,  by  the  class,  a 
description  of  ^vhich  Ave  shall  draw  from  the  British 
writers.  We  do  not  hesitate  to  assign  to  the  Gyp- 
sies the  same  origin  with  the  rest.  They  are  all 
the  outgrowth  of  runaway  and  emancipated  serfs. 
The  time  of  the  appearance  of  the  Gypsies  is  co- 
eval Avith  the  universal  liberation  and  escape  of 
the  villeins. 

If  this  diluvies  of  society  is  by  nature  vicious, 
nomadic  and  incapable  of  any  self-control,  it  is  ob- 
vious they  should  bo  enslaved.  If  emancipation  of 
their  ancestors  and  the  throwing  them  upon  the 
world  without  property  or  other  means  of  support, 
made  them  and  their  posterity,  from  necessity,  beg- 
gars. Pariahs  and  Ishmaelites,  they  should  be  re- 
stored to  slavery,  unless  some  better  disposition  of 
them  can  be  discovered. 

North   British   Ileview,    "Literature  and  Labor 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        205 

Question,"  February  No.   1851.     The  passage  -we 
quote  is  from  a  work  of  Mr.  Majlicw : 

''  That  we,  like  the  Hottentots,  Kaffirs,  and  Fins,  are 
surrounded  by  wandering  hordes,  the  'sonquas'  and  'fin- 
gons'  of  this  country,  paupers,  beggars  and  outcasts,  pos- 
sessing nothing  but  what  they  acquire  by  depredation 
from  the  industrious,  provident  and  civilized  portion  of 
the  community ;  that  the  heads  of  these  nomads  are  re- 
markable for  a  greater  development  of  the  jaws  and 
cheek  bones,  than  of  the  skull,  and  that  they  have  a  se- 
cret language  of  their  own — an  English  '  cuzccat,'  or 
'  slang,'  as  it  is  called,  for  the  concealment  of  their  de- 
signs ;  these  are  points  of  coincidence  so  striking,  that, 
when  placed  before  the  mind,  they  make  us  marvel  why 
the  analogy  has  been  so  long  unobserved.  The  resem- 
blance once  discovered,  however,  becomes  of  great  ser- 
vice in  enabling  us  to  use  the  moral  characteristics  of  the 
nomadic  races  of  other  countries,  as  a  means  of  compre- 
hending more  readily  those  of  the  vagabonds  and  out- 
casts of  our  own.  ''^  *  *  The  nomad  there  is  distin- 
guished from  the  civilized  man  by  his  repugnance  to  reg- 
ular and  continuous  labor — by  his  want  of  providence  in 
laying  up  a  store  for  the  future ;  by  his  inability  to  per- 
ceive consequences  ever  so  slightly  removed  from  imme- 
diate apprehension ;  by  his  passion  for  stultifying  herbs 
and  roots,  and  when  possible,  for  intoxicating  fermented 
liquors;  for  his  extraordinary  powers  of  enduring  priva- 
tion ;  by  his  comparative  insensibility  to  pain ;  by  an  im- 
moderate love  of  gaming;  frequently  risking  his  own 
personal  liberty  on  a  single  cast ;  by  his  love  of  libidin- 


206  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

oxis  dances ;  by  the  pleasure  wlucli  he  experiences  in 
witnessing  the  suilerings  of  sentient  creatures;  by  his 
delight  in  warflire  and  all  perilous  sports ;  by  his  desire 
for  vengeance;  by  the  looseness  of  his  notions  as  to  pro- 
perty ;  by  the  absence  of  chastity  among  his  women,  and 
his  disregard  of  female  honor ;  and  lastly  by  his  vague 
sense  of  religion,  his  rude  idea  of  a  Creator,  and  utter 
absence  of  all  appreciation  of  the  inercy  of  the  Divine 
Spirit. 

''The  nomadic  races  of  England  are  of  many  distinct 
kinds — from  the  habitual  vagrant,  half  beggar,  half 
thief,  sleeping  in  barns,  tents,  and  casual  wards,  to  the 
mechanic  on  the  trairup,  obtaining  his  bed  and  supper 
from  the  trade  societies  in  the  different  towns  on  his  way 
to  seek  work.  Between  these  two  extremes,  there  are 
several  mediate  varieties,  consisting  of  pedlars,  show- 
men, harvest  men,  and  all  that  large  class  who  live  by 
either  selling,  showing,  or  doing  something  through  the 
countr}'.  There  are,  so  to  speak,  the  rural  nomads — not 
confining  their  wanderings  to  any  one  particular  locality, 
but  ranging  often  from  one  end  of  the  land  to  the  other. 
Besides  these,  there  are  urban  and  suburban  travellers, 
or  those  who  follow  some  itinerant  occupation  in  and 
about  the  large  towns.  Such  are  in  the  metropolis,  more 
particularly  the  pickpockets,  the  beggars,  the  prostitutes, 
the  street  sellers,  the  street  performers,  the  cab-men,  the 
coachmen,  the  watermen,  the  sailors,  and  such  like.  In 
each  of  these  classes,  according  as  they  partake  mure  or 
less  of  the  family  vagabond,  doing  nothing  whatever  for 
their  living,  but  moving  from  place  to  place,  preying 
upon  the  earnings  of  the  mare  industrious  part  of  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        207 

community — so  will  tlie  attributes  of  tlie  nomad  tribe  bo 
found  to  be  more  or  less  marked." 

To  tKe  same  effect,  read  the  folloAving  from  July 
No.  1852,  of  Edinburgh  Review,  in  article  on 
"  Mendicity;  its  causes  and  statistics  :" 

There  live,  then,  in  the  midst  and  about  all  the  Eng- 
lish population,  a  distinct  population,  fearful  in  numbers, 
constantly  and  I'apidly  increasing,  having  a  language, 
manners,  and  customs  of  its  own — living,  in  nine  cases 
out  of  ten,  in  a  coui'se  of  life  the  most  immoral  and  pro- 
fligate ;  and  yet  so  living,  and  so  increasing,  in  spite  of 
the  laws,  in  spite  of  the  municipal  arrangements  of  the 
last  few  years,  so  favorable  to  their  detection  and  punish- 
ment; in  spite  of  the  new  poor-law  arrangements ;  and 
in  spite  of  the  general  feeling  that  the  poor-rates  and 
the  union  ought  to  provide  for  all  real  cases  of  destitution 
and  misery.  This  population  has  its  signs,  free-masonry, 
its  terms  of  art,  its  correspondence,  its  halting-houses, 
its  barns  still  kept  open,  and  even  well-strawed  by  far- 
mers and  country  gentlemen ;  its  public-houses,  its  well- 
known  and  even  recognized  lodging  houses ;  and  its 
manifold  plans  to  extract  or  extort,  to  win  or  to  scold, 
out  of  its  reluctant  but  deceived  victims,  sums  amount- 
ing, we  are  inclined  to  believe,  to  not  less  than 
£1, 37c, 000 ;  being  one-third  of  the  total  amount  of 
poor-rates !  This  sum  may  at  first  appear  utterly  extrav- 
agant ;  but  it  will  not  be  found  to  be  so  when  it  is  re- 
membered, that  on  an  average  each  begging  family 
extorts  £55  per  annum  from  the  public.      The  annual 


208  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

poor  law  expenditure  for  the  year  ending  in  jMarcb, 
1840,  in  Eup,land,  was,  in  round  numbers,  £4,300,000. 
In  England,  including  the  three  ridings  of  Yorkshire, 
there  are  forty-two  counties.  The  population  of  those 
counties  is  nearly  fifteen  millions.  If  we  take  at  this 
moment  a  rough  and  general,  though  a  tolerably  correct 
estimate  of  that  population,  with  its  dense  misery  in 
towns  and  cities,  and  its  diffused  but  not  less  individ- 
ually intense  misery  in  the  agricultural  districts,  we  may 
fairly  calculate  that  one  out  of  every  one  hundred  is  a 
beggar  or  lives  in  a  state  of  practical  vagrancy — looking 
in  one  form  or  other,  to  alms  for  support.  The  onc-hun- 
dreth  part  of  the  population  is  150,000;  and  if  each 
begging  family,  raising  £55  per  annum  from  the  public 
by  alms,  be  estimated  as  consisting  of  six,  we  shall  have 
25,000  English  begging  families,  raiding  £55  per  an- 
num each,  or  the  total  sum  of  £1,375,000.  But  we  be- 
lieve that  we  have  underrated,  instead  of  overstated  the 
facts  of  the  case  in  these  calculations.  In  London  alone 
and  its  vicinity,  in  spite  of  all  the  efforts  of  the  police,  a 
very  large  part  of  that  sum  is  extorted ;  and  we  have 
not  taken  into  consideration  the  wholesale  mendicity 
which  is  now  deplorably  manifest  in  the  larger  Eng- 
lish manufocturing  towns.  We  have  also  omitted  all 
Irish  mendicants ;  and  yet  they  are  nearly  in  the  pro- 
portion of  one  to  three  in  the  English  agricultural  dis- 
tricts. Naturally  anxious  as  we  are  to  avoid  even  the 
appearance  of  exaggeration,  we  are  still  bound  to  state, 
that  the  estimate  we  have  made  is  greatl}'  deficient,  and 
that  we  have  understated  the  real  statistics. 

The  begging  population  of  England,  existing  and  in- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        209 

creasing  in  spite  of  municipal  police,  and  notwithstand- 
ing the  penalties  of  the  vagrant  act,  is  divided  into 
several  classes;  and  we  now  propose  to  draw  upon  a  little 
pamphlet,  mentioned  at  the  head  of  this  article,  which 
has  been  recently  published  at  Birmingham,  and  which 
contains  very  accurate  details  of  the  mendicant  popula- 
tion— written  by  one  who  long  frequented  the  haunts  of 
the  vagrant  community.  The  portion  of  the  community 
to  which  his  details  extend,  belong  principally  to  the 
hereditary  and  professional  class  of  beggars. 

The  writer  of  this  family  thus  proceeds  with  his  de- 
scriptive details  : 

'In  order  fully  to  explain  each  individual  character, 
I  shall  begin  with  those  vagrants  who  generally  obtain 
the  most,  and  are  considered  of  the  first  class,  and  are 
by    some     termed    '  Silver     Beggars,'    but   by  travelers 

LURKERS. 

'  LuRKERs  are  persons  who  go  about  with  briefs,  con- 
taining false  statements  of  losses  by  fire,  shipwrecks,  ac- 
cidents, &c.  The  seals  and  signatures  of  two  or  more 
magistrates  are  affixed  to  those  briefs,  and  they  are  so 
well  written,  that  thousands  of  persons  are  daily  im- 
posed upon  by  them.  As  -there  are  so  many  different 
ways  used  by  these  persons,  it  will  be  necessary  to  ex- 
plain each  of  them  separately.' 

The  writer  then  enters  into  details  as  to  '  (he  Fire- 
Lurlcers,'  or  those,  'who  go  about  begging  for  loss  by 
fire.'  They  have  false  brief--,  pretended  to  be  signed  by 
two  magistrates  and  the  clergyman  of  the  place  where 
the  fire  is  alleged  to  have  taken  place.  The  documents 
are  accompanied  by  a  sham  subscription-book,  and  the 
brief  is  called,  in  the  mendicant's  parlance,  'a  sham,' 
whilst   the    subscription-book    they    name    'a   delicate.' 


210  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

AVith  this  'sham  and  delicate'  the  'lurkers/  or  beggars, 
proceed  all  over  the  country ;  and  the  author  states  that 
one  man,  with  whom  he  was  acquainted,  '  had  been  a  lire- 
lurker  for  fourteen  years,  and  had  travelled  through 
every  county  in  England,  and  the  greater  part  of  Wales.' 
Then  there  is, 

'  The  ShipwrecJcrd  Sailor's  Lurlc. — Persons  who  go 
on  this  lurk,  generally  represent  themselves  as  captains 
or  masters  of  merchant  ships,  which  have  been  wrecked, 
and  they  have,  of  course,  lost  all  their  property ;  and 
their  pretended  loss  always  amounts  to  many  hundred 
pounds,  sometimes  even  to  thousands.  This  class  of  im- 
postors are  very  respectably  dressed,  having  moustaches, 
gold  chains,  &c.;  they  have  either  a  well-written  briet,  or 
one  partly  printed  and  filled  up  with  writing  and  the  seals 
and  signatures  of  two  or  three  magistrates  are  placed 
at  the  bottom.  I  have  seen  briefs  of  this  description 
from  almost  every  part  of  the  kingdom.' 

He  goes  on  to  say,  that  one  named  Captain  Johnstone 
had  'followed  the  lurk  of  a  shipwrecked  captain  for 
many  years,  had  been  over  every  county  in  England  and 
Wales  many  times,  and  obtained  not  only  hundreds,  but 
thousands  of  pounds.'  lie  relates  various  anecdotes  of 
the  most  successful  '  Lurkers '  in  this  department. 

'  The  Foreigner' s  Inirl;. — Considerable  numbers  pro- 
ceed on  this  lurk,  representing  themselves  as  foreigners 
in  distress.  .  .  .  Of  late  years,  by  far  the  greatest 
number  have  represented  themselves  as  PoJifli  noblemen 
or  gentlemen,  who  had  been  driven  by  the  tyranny  of 
Russia  from  their  native  country  to  seek  a  refuge.  .  .  . 
Their  briefs  have  the  names  and  seals  of  two  magistrates 
attached,  and  are  always  well  written.  Whenever  they 
present  their  briefs,  they  affect  not  to  be  able  to  speak  a 
word  of  English,  and  the  few  words  they  utter  are  spo- 


SLAVES   -SaTIIOUT   MASTERS.  211 

ken  in  broken  accent.  .  .  .  One  of  these  lurkers,  known 
among  mendicants  by  the  nickname  of  '  Lord  Dundas,' 
had  often  got  several  pounds  in  a  day.  .  ,  .  There  are 
also  many  females  who  go  on  the  foreigner's  lurk.  ...  I 
knew  a  female  who  went  on  the  foreigner's  lurk,  who 
dressed  very  well ;  she  had  a  boy  with  her,  and  often 
succeeded  in  getting  two  or  three  pounds  in  a  day. 
"When  she  called  on  any  one,  she  pattered  (spoke)  in 
French,  and  affected  not  to  be  able  to  converse  in  the 
English  language.' 

•:* .  '  The  Accident  LurJi-. — Lurkers  of  this  description 
have  a  sham  and  delicate,  (brief  and  book,)  and  the 
sham  states,  that  by  some  dreadful  accident  the  bearer 
has  lost  all,  or  at  least  the  greater  part  of  his  property, 
sometimes  by  storm,  and  at  other  times  by  a  flood,  or  in 
some  other  way :  but,  in  whatever  way  the  accident  has 
happened,  the  bearer  has  alvrays  suffered  a  very  consid- 
erable loss,  and  is  deprived  of  the  means  of  supporting 
himself  and  family.  The  sums  raised  vary  from  five 
shillings  to  a  pound  per  day.' 

5.  '  The  Sick  Lurk. — This  is  worked  in  so  many  dif- 
ferent ways,  that  it  will  be  necessary  to  say  a  little  on 
each.  It  would  seem,  1st,  That  a  common  method  of 
imposing  upon  the  public  is,  by  applying  blistering  oint- 
ment to  the  arms,  causing  them  to  have  the  appearance 
of  having  been  badly  scalded.  2d,  That  others  go  about 
with  hands  and  arms  tied  up,  said  to  be  injured  by  light- 
ning, or  by  some  other  deplorable  accident.  3d,  Others 
affect  fits.  4th,  Others  affect  pregnancy  and  destitution. 
5th,  Others  obtain  alms  by  the  husband  remaining  at 
home  and  affecting  indisposition,  in  case  any  one  should 
visit  his  lodgings  to  examine  into  the  merits  of  the  case, 
whilst  the  wife  goes  out  begging  for  wine,  rags,  clothes, 
&c.,  for  the  sham  invalid.  Gth,  Others  pretend  to  have 
bad  wounds,  and  beg  for  linen  rags  and  small  bottles  to 
contain  medicine  necessary  for  their  cure.  I  saw  a  man 
who  got,  in  one  day,  by  this  means,  thirteen  pounds' 
weight  of  white  rags,  and  more  than  five  dozen  of  phial 
bottles.     Rags  and  bottles  sell  well.     7th,  Others  affect 


212  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

to  have  cliildren  conOned  "with  scarlet  fever,  &c.  &c.,  and 
beg  for  them.  They  state  that  thoy  luive  obtained  a  note 
to  take  their  chihlren  to  an  infiruiary  or  to  an  hospital, 
and  want  a  few  clothes  and  a  little  monej^' 

G.  '  TIic  Deaf  and  Dumh  Lurk. — I  have  known  many 
persons  of  both  sexes,  who  have  acted  as  if  deaf  and 
dumb,  and  by  this  means  succeeded  very  well  in  obtain- 
ing money,  food,  &c.  Many  of  them  pretend  to  tell  for- 
tunes, and  frequently  get  something  considerable  by  such 
practices.  They  carry  a  slate  and  pencil  with  them,  to 
write  questions  and  answers.' 

It  would  appear  from  the  pamphlet  before  us,  that 
sometimes  these  deaf  and  dumb  lurkers  affect  even  in 
the  lodging-houses  to  be  thus  afflicted ;  but  in  such  cases 
they  are  generally  found  out  by  their  fellow  vagrants. 

7.  '  The  Scrvant.s'  LurJc. — There  are  considerable  num- 
bers who  go  on  the  servants'  lurk,  or  as  servants  out  ot 
place;  and  both  males  and  females  frequently  succeed 
well  in  imposing  on  servants  and  others  by  false  state- 
ments and  tales  of  distress.  .  .  .  The  greater  part  of 
those  who  go  on  this  lurk  are  neatly  dressed,  and  have 
exactly  the  appearance  of  servants  in  gentlemen's  fami- 
lies  Many   of   them    have    the    Court    Guide, 

which,  as  it  contains  a  list  of  the  nobility  and  gentry, 
enables  them  to  do  the  thing  completely.' 

8.  '  Collier  s  Lurk. — This  is  followed  by  thousands 
who  were  never  in  a  coal-pit,  and  numbers  of  such  are 
daily  imposing  upon  the  public  as  colliers  out  of  employ. 
They  generally  say  they  have  been  thrown  out  of  work 
by  some  accident,  such  as  the  flooding  of  the  works  or 
the  falling  in  of  the  pit They  often  go  in  par- 
ties  from  two  to  seven  or  eight Otbcrs  have 

printed  paper.^,  which  are  left  at  each  house,  and  called 
for  again  in  a  few  hours.  .  .  .  Others  have  written  state- 
ments of  the  pretended  masters  of  the  accidents,  and  the 
supposed  signatures  of  the  works  are  affixed  to  them. 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  213 

....  Some  of  these  obtain  as  much  as  fourteen  or  fif- 
teen shillings  per  diem.' 

9.  '  Tlw  Weaccrs  Lurlc. — There  are  at  tlic  present 
time  great  nuinbors  who  go  on  this  lurk,  many  of  them 
having  printed  papers  or  small  handbills,  and  leave  one 
at  each  house,  and  then  call  again  for  them,  and  to  re- 
ceive  what  persons  are  disposed  to  give I  have 

seen  men  who  represented  themselves  as  weavers  of  every 
kind,  and  from  all  the  manufacturing  parts  of  the  king- 
dom— men  who  I  well  knew  had  never  been  near  a  loom, 
but  had  been  born  and  bred  vagrants.' 

10.  '  The  Cotton  Spinner's  LnrJc. — There  are  many 
going  on  this  lurk  with  printed  papers  or  small  handbills 

also Some  who  go  on  this   lurk  carry  sewing 

cotton  for  sale,  alleged  to  be  their  own  spinning 

One  man  I  know,  who  travels  on  this  lurk,  has  been 
doing  so  for  twelve  years.  He  sometimes  obtains  as 
much  as  from  twelve  to  fifteen  shillings  in  one  da}'.' 

11.  '  The  Calendcrers  Lvrk. — Those  who  go  on  this 
lurk  represent  themselves  as  calenderer's  out  of  employ, 
through  the  depression  of  trade  and  improvement  in  ma- 
chinery. They,  like  sham  weavers  and  colliers,  have 
false  papers,  which  are  printed,  some  in  poetry.' 

The  sums  raised  by  those  descriptions  of  'lurks'  must 
be  immense,  especially  where  the  individuals  have  a  good 
address,  and  can  explain  and  enforce  the  written  and 
printed  appeals  they  take  with  them. 

'High-Fliers,'  or  begging  letter  writers,  are,  it  would 
seem,  the  next  in  order  of  importance,  after  the  Lurkers. 
'  These  beogino-  letter-writers  scribble  false  statements  of 
their  having  been  unfortunate  in  business,  or  suffered 
great  losses,  which  have  reduced  them  to  a  state  of  ex- 
treme distress.  In  London,  but  especially  in  the  water- 
ing and  sea-bathing  places,  these  letters  procure  as  much 
as  from  five  to  one  pound  per  day.' 

'  Shallow  Coves'  are  '  impostors  begging  through  the 


214  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

country  as  shipwrecked  sailors.  They  generally  choose 
winter,   and  always    go  nearly  naked.     Their  object  iu 

doing  so  is  to  obtain  Icft-oflf  clothes They  have  a 

long,  pitiful  gut-up  tale  of  pretended  distress,  which  they 
shout  through  the  streets,  of  having   been  shipwrecked, 

&c Shallow    Coves  generally  go   in  companies, 

(or,  technically  speaking,  in  school)  of  from  two  to  ten. 
There  is    generally   one  selected  to  be  the    spokesman. 

As  Slialluw  Coves  only  call  at  respectable  houses, 

they  often  obtain  a  great  deal  of  money.' 

'  Shallow  lUotts'  are  females  who,  like  the  Shallow 
Coves,  go   nearly  naked.     They  also  adopt  that  mode  of 

begging    in  order  to  obtain   wearing   apparel 

They  plead  long  and  severe  sickness,  but  only  ask  for 
clothes.     The  clothes  are  disposed  of  as    soon  as  possible, 

none  being  ever  kept  for  their  own  use I  knew 

one  of  these  who  in  ten  days  obtained  at  Kingston-upon- 
Thamcs  between  seven  and  eight  pounds'  worth  of  cbthos. 

'  CadCxERs'  are  those  who  make  begging  their  trade, 
and  depend  upon  it  for  their  support.  Ca<l(jers  on  the 
doicnriglit  are  those  who  beg  from  door  to  door,  and  Cad- 
gers on  the  fljj  are  those  who  beg  as  they  pass  along  the 
tober,  (road.)  Cadging  on  the  fly  is  a  profitable  occupa- 
tion in  the  vicinity  of  bathing-places  and  large  towns. 
A  person  of  this  description  generally  gets  many  shil- 
lings in  the  course  of  the  day.  Cadging  on  the  down- 
right (from  door  to  door)  is  like  all  other  trades,  getting 
■worse ;  but  still  thousands  do  very  well  at  it,  and  fre- 
quently get  more  food  than  they  can  consume 

1  have  often  seen  food,  which  many  working  people  would 
gladly  have  eaten,  shamefull}'  and  wantonly  wasted. 

*  Cadgep.s  Children'  (kiddies)  'are  so  well  instructed 
in  the  arts  of  imposition  by  their  parents,  that  they  fre- 
quently^ obtain  more  in  money  and  food  than  grown-up 
cadgers.' 

'  Cadgers  Screciing. — I'here  are  many  cadgers  who 
write  short  sentences  with  chalk  on  the  iiags,  and  some 
of  them  can  do  it  remarkably  well ;  these  are  called  scree- 
vers.     I   have   seen   the   following  sentences  frequently 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        215 

written  by  them  in  places  where  there  were  numbers 
passing  by,  and  where  they  thought  it  would  be  likely 
to  get  plenty  of  half-pence,  (browns,)  and  now  and  then 
a  tanner  or  a  boh,  (sixpence  or  a  shilling,) 

♦'Hunger  is  a  sliarp  thorn,  and  bitetli  keen." 
"I  cannot  get  ■work,  and  to  beg  I  am  ashamed." 

I  have  known  them  by  this  means  obtain  seven  shil- 
lings a  day. 

'  Cad'jei-s'  Sitting' Pad. — Whenever  cadgers  stand  or 
sit,  either  in  towns  or  by  the  road  side,  to  beg,  they  call 
it  sitting  or  standing  jJcid  ;  and  this  often  proves  a  very 
profitable  method,  yome  of  them  affect  blindness ;  whilst 
others  represent  themselves  as  unable  to  follow  any  em- 
ployment, in  consequence  of  being  subject  to  fits.  Some 
cadgers  save  very  considerable  sums  of  money ;  but  these 
are  very  few,  compared  with  the  great  number  who  live 
by  this  trade  of  beggarj^. 

*  Match-srUers'  never  entirely  depend  upon  selling 
matches,  for  they  cadge  as  well;  in  fact,  they  only  carry 
matches  as  a  cloak  for  begging,  and  never  offer  them  at 
any  house  where  they  expect  to  get  more  without  them. 
....  Match-sellers,  as  well  as  all  other  cadgers,  often 
get  what  they  call  '  a  hack-door  cant ;'  that  is,  anything 
they  can  carry  off'  where  they  beg,  or  offer  their  matches 
for  sale-' 

'  Cross  Coves,'  though  they  beg  their  bread,  can  tell 
a  long  story  about  being  out  of  employ  through  the 
badness  of  trade,  &c.,  yet  get  what  they  call  on  the 
cross,  (by  theft.)  .  .  One  of  their  chief  modes  of  getting 
things  on  the  cross  is  by  shoplifting,  (called  grabbing,) 
....  Another  method  is  to  star  the  glaze,  (i.  e.  break 
or  cut  the  window.) 

'Prigs  (or  pickpockets)  are  another  closs  of  vagrants, 

and  they  frequent  races,  fairs,   and   prize-fights 

Like  cross  coves,  they  are  generally  young  men  who  have 
been  trained  to  vagrancy,  and  have  been  taught  the  arts 
of  their  profession  in  their  childhood,' 

'  Fahners  are  another  description  of  beggars,  who  visit 
shops    under   pretence    of    collecting   harp    half-pence; 


216  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

and  to  induce  sboplcccpors  to  searcli  for  tliem,  thoy  offer 
thirtcen-pciice  for  a  sliilling's  worth,  wlipn  many  persons 
are  silly  enough  to  empty  a  large  quantity  of  copper  on 
their  counters  to  search  for  the  half-pence  wanted.  The 
palmer  is  sure  to  have  his  hand  amongst  it;  and  while 
he  pretends  to  search  for  the  harps,  he  contrives  to  con- 
ceal as  many  as  possible  in  the  palm  of  his  hand,  and 
whenever  he  removes  his  hand  from  the  coppers  on  the 
counter,  always  holds  his  fingers  out  straight,  so  that  the 
shopkeeper  has  not  the  least  suspicion  that  ho  is  being 
robbed.  Sums  varying  from  five  to  fifteen  shillings  per 
diem  are  frequently  got  in  this  way,  by  characters  of  that 
description.' 

Extract  from  Edinburgli  Review,  Jan.  No.  18-14: 

IRISH    PEASANTRY. 

It  is  obvious  that  the  insecurity  of  a  community  in 
which  the  bulk  of  the  population  form  a  conspiracy 
against  the  law,  must  prevent  the  importation  of  capital ; 
must  occasion  much  of  what  is  accumulated  there  to  be 
exported ;  and  must  diminish  the  motives  and  the  means 
of  accumulation.  Who  will  send  his  property  to  a  place 
where  he  cannot  rely  on  its  being  protected  ?  "Who  will 
voluntarily  establish  himself  in  a  country  which  to-mor- 
row may  be  in  a  state  of  disturbance?  A  state  in  which, 
to  use  the  words  of  ( Jhief  Justice  Bushe,  '  houses,  and 
barns,  and  granaries  arc  leveled,  crops  are  laid  waste, 
pasture  lands  are  ploughed,  plantations  are  torn  up,  mea- 
dows are  thrown  open  to  cattle,  cattle  are  maimed,  tor- 
tured, killed ;  persons  are  visited  by  parties  of  banditti, 
who  inflict  cruel  torture,  mutilate  their  limbs,  or  beat 
them  almost  to  death ;  men  who  have  in  any  way  become 
obnoxious  to  the  insurgents,  or  opposed  their  system,  or 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        217 

refused  to  participate  in  their  outrages,  are  deliberately 
assassinated  in  the  open  day ;  and  sometimes  the  unof- 
fenaing  members  of  a  flimil}'  are  indiscriminately  mur- 
dered by  burning  the  habitation."  A  state  in  which 
even  those  best  able  to  protect  themselves,  the  gentry, 
are  forced  to  build  up  all  their  lower  windows  with  stone 
and  mortar;  to  admit  light  only  into  one  sitting-room, 
and  not  into  all  the  windows  of  that  room,  to  fortify 
every  other  inlet  by  bullet  proof  barricadoes ;  to  station 
sentinels  around  during  all  the  night,  and  the  greater 
part  of  the  da}-;  and  to  keep  fire-arms  in  all  the  bed- 
rooms, and  even  on  the  side-table  at  breakfast  and  dinner 
time.  Well  might  even  Bishop  Doyle  exclaim — "I  do 
not  blame  the  absentees;  I  would  be  an  absentee  myself 
if  I  could." 


10 


218  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XV. 

"RURAL    LIFE    OF    ENGLAND." 

From  "Rural  Life  of  England,"  bj  "\Vm.  H. 
IIowiTT,  we  take  the  following  extract: 

"The  wildness  into  which  some  of  these  children  in 
the  more  solititry  parts  of  the  country,  grow,  (recollect 
this  is  in  Lancashire,  near  the  great  city  of  Manchester,) 
is,  I  imagine,  not  to  be  surpassed  in  any  of  the  back  set- 
tlements of  Ai^erica.  On  the  ^th  July,  1836,  the  day 
of  that  remarkable  thunder-storm  which  visited  a  great 
part  of  the  kingdom  with  much  fury,  being  driven  into 
a  cottage  at  the  foot  of  Pendle  by  the  coming  on  of  this 
storm,  and  while  standing  at  the  door  watching  its  pro- 
gress, I  observed  the  head  of  some  human  creature,  care- 
fully protruded  from  the  doorway  of  an  adjacent  shed, 
and  as  suddenly  withdrawn  on  being  observed.  To  as- 
certain what  sort  of  a  person  it  belonged  to,  I  went  into 
the  shed,  but  at  iirst  found  it  too  dark  to  enable  me  to 
discover  anything.  Presently,  however,  as  objects  be- 
came visible,  I  saw  a  little  creature,  apparently  a  girl 
about  ten  years  old,  reared  very  erectly  against  the  oppo- 
site wall.     On  accosting  her  in  a  kind  tone,  and  telling 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        219 

her  to  come  forward  and  not  be  afraid,  she  advanced  from 
the  wall,  and  behold!  there  stood  another  little  creature, 
about  the  head  shorter,  whom  she  had  been  concealing. 
I  asked  the  elder  child,  Avhether  this  younger  one  were  a 
girl.  She  answered, -'Ne'a.'  'Was  it  a  boy?'  'Ne'a.' 
'"What!  neither  boy  nor  girl?  Was  she  a  girl  herself?' 
'Ne'a.'  'What!  was  it  a  boy  I  was  speaking  to?' 
'Ne'a.'  'What  in  the  name  of  wonder  were  they  then?' 
'We  are  ehilder.'  'Childer!  and  was  the  woman  in  the 
house  their  mother?'  'Ne'a.'  'Who  was  she,  then?' 
'Ar  mam.'  '0!  your  mam  !  and  do  you  keep  cows  in 
this  shed?'  'Ne'a, — bee-as.'  In  short,  common  Eng- 
lish was  quite  unintelligible  to  these  poor  little  creatures, 
and  their  appearance  was  as  wild  as  their  speech.  They 
were  two  fine  young  creatures,  nevertheless, — especially 
the  elder,  whose  form  and  face  were  full  of  that  symme- 
try and  fine  grace  that  are  sometimes  the  growth  of  un- 
restrained Nature,  and  would  have  delighted  the  sculptor 
or  painter.  Their  only  clothing  was  a  sort  of  little  bod- 
dice  with  skirts,  made  of  a  reddish  stuff,  and  rendered 
more  picturesque  by  sundry  patches  of  scarlet  cloth,  no 
doubt  from  their  mother's  old  cloak.  Their  heads,  bo- 
soms, and  legs  to  the  knees,  were  bare  to  all  the  influ- 
ences of  earth  and  heaven ;  and  on  giving  each  of  them 
a  penny,  they  bounded  off  with  the  fleetness  and  elas- 
ticity of  young  roes.  No  doubt  the  hills  and  the  heaths, 
the  wild  flowers  of  summer,  and  the  swift  waters  of  the 
glens,  were  the  only  live  long  day  companions  of  these 
children,  who  came  home  only  to  their  oatmeal  dinner, 
and  a  bed  as  simple  as  their  garments.     Imagine  the  vio- 


220  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

lent  change  of  life  by  the  siuhhn  capture  and  covfinemcnt 
of  these  little  J'Jiii/lish  savaijcs  in  the  niyht-and-daij  noise, 
luhui',  and  foul  atniosjihtrc  of  the  cotton  jiunjatoriesJ 

"  Id  the  iimncdiiite  neighborhood  of  towns,  many  of 
the  swelling  ranges  of  hills  present  a  much  more  cultiva- 
ted aspect,  and  delight  the  eye  with  their  smooth,  green, 
and  flowing  outlines;  and  tlie  valleys,  almost  everywhere, 
are  woody,  watered  with  clear,  rapid  streains,  and  in 
short,  are  beautiful.  But  along  the  rise  of  the  tall  chim- 
neys of  vast  and  innumerable  fiictories,  and  even  while 
looking  on  the  places  of  the  master  manufactories,  with 
their  woods,  and  gardens,  and  shrubbery  lawns  around 
them,  one  cannot  lulp  tliinking  of  the  horrors  detailed 
hefure  the  committee  of  the  House  of  Commons,  resjyecting 
the  Factor)/  System;  of  the  parentless  and  friendless 
wretches,  sent  by  wagon  loads  from  distant  work-houses 
to  these  prisons  of  labor  and  despair;  of  the  young 
frames  crushed  to  the  dust  by  incessant  labor;  of  the 
beds  into  which  one  set  of  children  got,  as  another  set 
got  out,  so  that  they  were  said  never  to  be  cold  the  whole 
year  round,  till  contagious  fires  burnt  out  and  swept 
away  by  hundreds  these  little  victims  of  Mammon's  ever- 
urging  never-ceasing  wheel.  Beautiful  as  are  many  of 
these  wild  recesses,  where,  before  the  introduction  of 
steam,  the  dashing  rivulet  invited  the  cotton-spinners  to 
erect  their  mills ;  and  curious  as  the  remains  of  those 
simple  original  factories  are,  with  their  one  great  water- 
wheel,  which  turned  their  spindles  while  there  was  wa- 
ter, but  during  the  drought  of  summer  quite  as  often 
stood  still;    yet  one  is  haunted  even  there,  among  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  221 

shadows  of  the  fine  old  trees  that  throw  their  arms 
athwart  streams  dashing  down  their  beds  of  solid  rock, 
by  the  memory  of  little  tender  children,  that  never  knew 
pity  or  kindness,  but  labored  on  and  on,  through  noon 
and  through  midnight,  till  they  slept  and  yet  mechanic- 
ally worked,  and  were  often  awaked  only  by  the  horrid 
machinery  rending  oil  their  limbs.  In  places  like  these, 
where  now  the  old  factories  and  large  houses  of  the  pro- 
prietors, stand  deserted,  or  are  inhabited  by  troops  of 
poor  creatures,  whose  poverty  only  makes  them  appear 
the  more  desolate.  We  are  told  by  such  men  as  Mr. 
Ficlden,  of  Oldham,  once  a  factory  child  himself,  and 
now  a  great  manufacturer,  who  dares  to  reveal  the  se- 
crets of  the  prison-house,  that  little  children  have  even 
committed  suicide  to  escape  from  a  life  worse  than  ten 
deaths.  And  what  a  mighty  system  is  this  now  become? 
What  a  perpetual  and  vast  supply  of  human  energy  and 
human  life  it  requires,  with  all  the  facilities  of  improved 
machinery,  with  all  the  developed  power  of  steam,  and 
with  all  the  glowing  thirst  of  wealth  to  urge  it  on!  We 
are  told  that  the  state  of  the  factories  is  improved,  and  I 
trust  they  are ;  but  if  there  be  any  truth  in  the  evidence 
given  before  the  Parliamentary  committees,  there  is  need 
of  great  amelioration  yet;  and  it  is,  when  we  recollect 
these  things,  how  completely  the  laboring  class  has,  in 
these  districts,  been  regarded  as  mere  machinery  for  the 
accumulation  of  enormous  capitals,  that  we  cease  to  won- 
der at  their  uncouth  and  degraded  aspect,  and  at  the  neg- 
lect in  which  they  are  suffered  to  swarm  over  these  hills, 
like  the  very  weeds  of   humanity,  cast  out  into  disre- 


222  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

garded  places,  and    left  to  spread  and  increase  in  rank 
and  deleterious  luxuriance." 


Wliat  is  so  poetically  and  graphically  described 
by  Mr.  Ilowitt,  is  verified  in  its  minutest  details  in 
the  "Glory  and  Shame  of  England,"  a  very  inter- 
esting woik  by  C.  Ed\Yards  Lester,  an  abolitionist 
of  New  York. 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  223 


CHAPTER    XVI. 

THE  DISTRESSED  NEEDLE-WOMEN  AND  HOOD'S  SONG 
OF  THE   SHIRT. 

We  take  what  follows  from  the  January  No., 
1849,  of  the  Westminster  Review — we  having 
nothing  to  remark,  except  as  to  the  line  from  the 
French  song,  which  has  taken  the  place  of  the 
Marseilloise  as  the  great  National  Song,  we  should 
rather  say.  National  Dirge.  It  is  the  maddening 
cry  of  hunger  for  employment  and  bread,  and 
more  resembles  the  howl  of  the  wolves  of  the  Py- 
rennes,  as  they  start  in  quest  of  prey,  than  the 
Anthem  of  Liberty.  It  truly  represents,  embodies 
and  personifies  the  great  Socialistic  movement  of 
the  day.  Whilst  statesmen  and  philosophers  spec- 
ulate, the  mass  agitate,  organize  and  threaten. 
Winter  before  last,  they  took  possession  of  the 
streets  of  New  York,  and  levied  enforced  charity. 
This  spring,  they  meet  in  the  Park  and  resolve, 
"that  there  were  fifty  thousand  m.en  and  women  in 
vain  seeking  employment  during  the  last  inclement 
winter.  America  echoes  to  France,  "Vivre  en  tra- 
vaillant,  ou  mourir  en  combatant !  "  'Tis  the  tocsin 
and  the  watchword  of  free  society.     'Tis  the  grum- 


224  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

bling  noise  of  the  heaving  volcano,  that  threatens 
and  precedes  a  social  eruption  greater  than  the 
"world  has  yet  ^vitncssed.  But  let  us  give  the  lan- 
guage of  the  Heviewer: 

"The  question  of  human  misery — its  causes  and  their 
removal,  is  at  the  hottom  of  the  movement  which  is  now 
convulsing  Europe,  and  which  threatens  to  agitate  it  for 
some  time  to  come.  Could  some  practicable  scheme  of 
relief,  generally  acceptable  to  all  classes  and  adequate  to 
cope  with  the  magnituJe  of  the  evil,  be  but  suggested, 
what  a  load  of  anxiety  would  be  taken  from  the  mind  of 
many  a  Minister  of  State! — what  comfort  would  be  of- 
fered to  many  a  desponding  philanthropist ! 

"JTuman  misery  has  at  last  found  tongues  and  pens  to 
make  itself  heard  and  felt.  It  appeals  to  our  feelings 
and  our  understandings,  to  our  sj-mpathics  and  fears.  Its 
wails  melt  us  to  pity,  its  ravings  terrify  us,  its  woes 
sicken  -us.  It  will  no  longer  hide  itself.  We  must 
either  remove  it,  or  submit  to  have  it  constantly  exposed 
to  our  gaze  in  all  its  horrid  deformity. 

"Hitherto  the  comfortable  classes  have  virtually  an- 
swered the  bitter  complaints  of  the  uncomfortable  classes 
in  some  such  terms  as  these :  'Poor  people!  we  are  very 
sorry  for  your  suffering — we  really  feel  for  you — take 
this  trifle — it  will  be  some  relief.  We  wish  we  could  do 
more; — and  now  pray  be  quiet — don't  distress  us  with 
your  writhings  and  agonies — resign  yourselves  to  the  will 
of  Providence,  and  bear  hunger  and  cold  in  peace  and 
seclusion; — above  all,  attempt  no  violence,  or  we  must 
use  violence  to  keep  you  quiet.'     The  answer  of  the  un- 


SLAVES   AVITIIOUT   MASTERS.  225 

comfortable  classes  to  such  admonitioas,  day  by  day  be- 
coming more  unmistakable,  is  :  'Kelieve  us,  relieve  us ! 
Make  us  comfortable,  or  show  us  how  we  may  make  our- 
selves comfortable  :  otherwise  we  must  make  you  uncom- 
fortable. We  will  be  comfortable  or  uncomfortable 
together.' 

"' Vivre  en  travaillant,  ou  mourir  en  combatant.'  lu 
our  last  number,  we  ventured  to  offer  a  few  indications  as 
to  what  we  considered  a  part,  an  important  part,  of  the 
remedial  measures  to  be  resorted  to  for  the  prevention  of 
human  misery.  We  were  then  dealing  with  that  Cjues- 
tion  as  a  whole.  We  now  propose  to  address  ourselves  to 
miseries  of  a  class. 

"  The  sufferings  of  the  distressed  needle-woman  have 
obtained  an  infamous  notoriety — they  are  a  scandal  to 
our  age  and  a  reproach  to  our  boasted  civilization.  They 
have  been  clothed  in  language  at  once  truthful  and  im- 
pressive, full  of  pathos  and  yet  free  from  exaggeration. 
Well  known  as  Hood's  immortal  lines  may  be,  we  repro- 
duce them  here,  because  no  narrative,  no  statistics  of 
ours,  could  be  more  true  nor  half  so  much  to  the 
purpose : 

THE   SONG  OF  THE    SHIRT. 

"Witb  fingers  weary  and  worn, 

'With  eyelids  heavy  and  red, 
A  woman  sat,  in  unwomanly  rags, 

Plying  her  needle  and  thread. 
Stitch— stitch— stitch ! 

In  povcrtj',  hunger,  and  dirt; 
And  still,  with  a  voice  of  dolorous  pitch, 

She  sane;  the  'Sonar  of  the  Shirt!' 


226  CANNIBALS   ALL;    ORj 

•'Wort — work — work ! 

■\Vbile  the  cock  is  crowing  aloof! 
And  work — work — work! 

Till  the  stars  shine  through  the  roof! 
It's  0 !  to  be  a  slave, 

Along  with  the  barbarous  Turk, 
"Where  woman  has  never  a  soul  to  save, 

If  this  is  Christian  work! 

"  Work — work — work ! 

Till  the  brain  begins  to  swim  ; 
Work — work — work  I 

Till  the  eyes  are  heavy  and  dim ! 
Seam  and  gusset  and  band, 

Band  and  gusset  and  seam, 
Till  o'er  the  buttons  I  fall  asleep. 

And  sew  them  on  in  a  dream  ! 

"0!  men,  with  sisters  dear! 

0!  men,  with  mothers  and  wives. 
It  is  not  linen  you're  wearing  out! 

But  human  creatures'  lives! 
Stitch— stitch— stitch ! 

In  poverty,  hunger,  and  dirt; 
Sewing  at  once,  with  a  double  thread, 

A  shroud  as  well  as  a  shirt! 

"But  why  do  I  talk  of  death? 

That  phantom  of  grisly  bone? 
I  hardly  fear  his  terrible  shape, 

It  seems  so  like  my  own! 
It  seems  so  like  my  own. 

Because  of  the  fasts  I  keep — 
Oh,  God!  that  bread  should  be  so  dear, 

And  flesh  and  blood  so  cheap ! 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  227 

"Woi'k — work — work ! 

My  labor  never  flags; 
And  what  are  its  wages?     A  bed  of  straw, 

A  crust  of  bread,  and — rags. 
That  shatter'd  roof,  and  this  naked  floor, 

A  table — a  broken  chair; 
And  a  wall  so  blank,  my  shadow  I  thank 

For  sometimes  falling  there! 

"Work — work — work ! 

From  weary  chime  to  chime, 
Work — work — work, 

As  prisoners  work  for  crime! 
Band  and  gusset  and  seam. 

Seam  and  gusset  and  band. 
Till  the  heart  is  sick  and  the  brain  benumb'd, 

As  well  as  weary  hand. 

"  Work — work — work ! 

In  dull  December  light, 
And  work — work — work. 

When  the  weather  is  warm  and  bright — 
While  underneath  the  eaves 

The  brooding  swallows  cling. 
As  if  to  show  me  their  sunny  backs 

And  twit  me  with  the  Spring. 

"Oh!  but  to  breathe  the  breath 

Of  the  cowslip  and  primrose  sweet — 
With  the  sky  above  my  head, 

And  the  grass  beneath  my  feet, 
For  only  one  short  hour — 

To  feel  as  I  used  to  feel. 
Before  I  knew  the  woes  of  want 

And  the  walk  that  costs  a  meal! 


228  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

"Oh,  but  for  one  short  hour! 

A  respite  however  brief! 
No  blessed  leisure  for  Love  or  Hope, 

But  only  time  for  Grief! 
A  little  Aveeping  would  ease  ray  heart — 

But  in  their  briny  bed 
My  tears  must  stop,  for  every  drop 

Hinders  needle  and  thread ! 

""With  fingers  weary  and  worn, 

With  eyelids  heavy  and  red, 
A  woman  sat,  in  unwomanly  rags, 

Plying  her  needle  and  thread — 
Stitch— stitch— stitcli '. 

In  poverty,  hunger,  and  dirt, 
Would  that  its  tone  could  reach  the  rich! 

She  sang  this  '  Song  of  the  Shirt! '  " 

We  annex  part  of  an  article  from  Jerrold's  Mag- 
azine, which  draws  quite  as  clear  a  picture  of  the 
condition  of  the  English  poor,  and  points  out  the 
only  feasible  remedy  for  the  evils  of  that  condition : 

SLAVERY. 

THE    OXLT    REMEDY    TOR    THE     MISERIES    OF    THE     ENGLISH   POOR. 
BY     A      PniLANTIIROPIST. 

Whoever  is  unprepared  to  cast  aside  not  only  his  pre- 
judices, but  many  of  what  may  be  considered  well-forracd 
opinions,  had  better  not  attempt  to  peruse  the  following 
few  pages.  I  must  demand  of  my  reader  that  he  come 
to  the  perusal,  the  heau  ideal  of  a  juryman.     No  infor- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  229 

mation  that  he  has  gained  elsewhere,  no  feelings  that  he 
has  cheiished  as  virtues,  no  sentiments  that  he  has  culti- 
vated as  noble,  and  no  opinions  that  he  may  have  formed 
as  infallible,  must  interfere  with  his  purely  and  simply 
receiving  the  following  arguments  on  their  own  cogency 
and  truth  alone. 

The  writer  considers  he  has  made  a  great  discovery  in 
moral  and  political  science;  and  elevated  by  his  subject 
above  all  personal  influences,  he  commits  it  to  be  worked 
out  by  others,  without  the  ostentation  of  recording  his 
name,  or  deeming  that  the  applause  of  present  or  of  fu- 
ture generations  can  add  to  his  sublime  delight,  in  discov- 
ering and  applying  a  "panacea"  to  the  varied  and  bitter 
ills  that  beset  three-fourths  of  the  poor  inhabitants  of  the 
"United  Kingdom." 

As  some  account  of  the  means  by  which  a  great  dis- 
covery has  been  arrived  at  is  necessary,  in  order  to  pre- 
pare the  mind  for  its  reception  with  due  respect,  J.  shall 
give  a  brief  outline  of  the  process  by  which  this  all-im. 
portant  truth  was  elicited. 

Born  with  natural  sensibilities,  I  early  learnt  to  shrink 
from  pain  endured  by  others,  as  if  felt  actually  and  bod- 
ily by  myself.  Thus  constituted,  what  a  scene  was  dis" 
played  to  me  when  I  came  into  the  great  and  moving 
society  of  mankind!  What  mighty  heaps  of  misery  did 
I  discern !  "What  details  did  the  records  of  the  A^arious 
courts  of  justice  disclose!  What  regions  of  squalor, 
misery,  and  degradation  did  my  travels  reveal  to  me  in 
every  city,  and  every  hamlet,  I  visited !  The  bent  of  my 
future  avocation  was  soon  fixed,  and  I  became  a  philan- 
thropist by  profession.     Not   to   make   a   trade  of  it  at 


230  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

monster  meetings,  or  fancy  f;iir.s,  but  as  a  pursuit  to 
wbieh  I  felt  myself  culled  by  a  spiritual  voice,  as  dis- 
tinct, I  should  sa}',  as  that  whicli  ever  called  a  theolo- 
gian from  a  curacy  of  fifty  pounds  a  year  to  a  bishopric 
of  twenty  thousand. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  recapitulate  the  horrors  I  have 
witnessed  in  the  regions  of  poverty.  It  is  said  that  the 
eras  of  pestilence  and  famine  are  passed,  but  so  will  not 
those  say  who  have  visited  the  dwellings  of  the  operatives 
of  our  great  manufacturing  towns,  when  the  markets  are 
glutted,  and  the  mills  and  manufactories  arc  closed.  Pes- 
tilence still  rages  fiercely  as  ever,  in  the  form  of  typhus, 
engendered  by  want.  In  the  mission  I  have  called  ray- 
self  to,  I  have  stood  upon  the  mud  floor,  over  the  corpse 
of  the  mother  and  the  new-born  child — both  the  victims 
of  want.  I  have  seen  a  man  (God's  image)  stretched  on 
straw,  wrapped  only  in  a  mat,  resign  his  breath,  from 
starvation,  in  the  prime  of  age.  I  have  entered,  on  a 
sultry  summer's  night,  a  small  house,  situate  on  the 
banks  of  a  common  sewer,  wherein  one  hundred  and 
twenty-seven  human  beings,  of  both  sexes  and  all  ages, 
were  indiscriminately  crowded.  I  have  been  in  the  pes- 
tilential hovels  of  our  great  manufacturing  cities,  where 
life  was  corrupted  in  every  possible  mode,  from  the  ma- 
laria of  the  sewer  to  the  poison  of  the  gin-bottle.  I  have 
been  in  sheds  of  the  peasant,  worse  than  the  hovel  of  the 
Russian,  where  eight  squalid,  dirty,  boorish  creatures 
■were  to  be  kept  alive  by  eight  shillings  per  week,  irregu- 
larly paid.  I  have  seen  the  humanities  of  life  desecra- 
ted in  every  way.  I  have  seen  the  father  snatch  the 
bread  from  his  child,  and  the  mother  offer  the  gin-bottle 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        231 

for  the  breast.  T  have  seen,  too,  generous  sacrifices  and 
tender  con.-idcrations,  to  wliich  the  boasted  chivahies  of 
Sydney  and  Edward  were  childish  ostentation.  I  have 
found  wrong  so  exalted,  and  right  so  debased — I  have 
seen  and  known  of  so  much  misery,  that  the  faith  in 
good  has  shivered  within  me. 

For  a  time,  when  I  urged  these  things  in  the  circles  of 
the  comfortable,  I  received  many  various  replies.  By 
some  it  was  said  that  it  was  the  lot  of  humaiiity — that  it 
bad  always  been  so,  and,  therefore,  always  must.  That 
to  enlarge  on  the  evil  was  only  to  create  discontent,  and 
so  injure  ''the  better  clas.ies."  It  was  in  vain  I  urged 
to  these  reasoners  that  for  hundreds,  and,  perhaps,  thou- 
sands of  years,  creatures  little  better  than  Calibans  in- 
fested the  morasses  and  forests  of  Europe.  That  civili- 
zation had  an  onward  progress,  and  that  the  history  of 
the  world  proved  the  one  great  truth — that  man  is  the 
creature  of  circumstances.  By  some,  the  evils  were  de- 
nied :  by  some  few,  deplored.  By  all,  the  discussion  was 
avoided;  though  the  destruction  that  menaced  the  Ro- 
man empire  from  the  invasion  of  the  barbarian  world  was 
never  so  imminent,  nor  could  the  consequence  be  so 
dreadful,  as  that  which  the  wealthy,  and  civilization  it- 
self, would  sustain  from  the  insurrection  of  outraged 
poverty. 

I  next  tried  the  politicians.  I  devoted  some  years  to 
history  and  political  economy.  I  even  entered  the  sen- 
ate. In  politics,  I  found  no  means  of  relief.  The  strug- 
gle there  was  for  the  preponderance  in  power,  and  the 
reply,  "  Help  us  to  get  into  power,  and  then  we  will  see 


232  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

what  we  can  do,"  The  utmost  was  to  institute  inqui- 
ries; and  from  th3  iiiionnution  thus  gathered,  has  been 
collected  a  record  of  misery,  such  as  never  was  before 
displayed. 

It  is  true,  some  steps  have  at  last  been  taken  in  the 
right  direction;  some  few  noble  spirits  have  spoken  out 
to  the  ''comfortable,"  the  dreadful  truths.  That  some- 
thiug  must  be  done,  is  now  acknowledged  by  all  who 
think.  The  foolish,  the  careless,  and  the  truculent,  can 
no  longer  avowedly  declare  the  cries  and  groans  of  the 
miserable  multitude  to  be  seJitious  discontent;  nor  as- 
cribe their  sutierings  to  the  results  of  retributive  justice. 

Baffled  in  every  search  for  a  remedy  at  home,  I  deter- 
mined to  search  foreign  nations,  and  having  carefully 
journeyed  through  Europe,  I  sought  successively  the 
East  and  West,  until  1  had  traversed  the  civilized  coun- 
tries of  the  world.  It  was  in  the  remote  regions  of  the 
East  and  West  that  I  found  a  clue  to  my  discover}'.  I 
here  found  mankind  as  multitudinous  as  at  home,  but 
much  more  happy.  Starvation,  except  in  cases  of  gene- 
ral famine,  was  unknown;  and,  on  the  contrary,  I  heard 
the  sounds  of  revelry  and  dancing,  of  mirth  and  leisure, 
amongst  the  lowest  classes.  How  different  to  the  ever- 
lasting toil  of  the  superior  Englishman  !  ^' These,  then," 
I  said,  "  are  the  concomitants  of  bondage ! "  Having 
thus  struck  out  the  idea,  I  followed  it  up  with-  logical 
severity,  and  enunciated  the  truth  that  slaver)/  and  con- 
tent^ and  lihi'vlij  and  dhcontcnt,  are  natural  i-esidls  of 
each  other.  Applying  this,  then,  to  the  toil-worn,  half- 
fed,  pauperized  population  of  England,  I  found  that  the 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  233 

• 
only  way  to  permanently  and  efficiently  remedy  the  com- 
plicated evils,  would  be  to  ENSLAVE  the  wliolc  of  the 
peoj)Je  of  Eivjland  icho  have  not  'property. 

Of  course,  I  expect  a  shout  of  execration  and  con- 
tempt at  such  a  bold  proposition ;  but,  as  I  have  already 
said,  I  seek  only  to  gain  the  hearing,  at  first,  of  the  im- 
partial and  the  original  thinker.  That  I  am  disinterested, 
will  at  once  be  allowed,  when  I  declare  I  do  not  seek  to 
be  one  of  the  enslaved.  But  let  us  proceed  to  examine 
how  this  mighty  benefit  would  manifest  itself  The  first 
great  advantage  would  be,  that  the  lower  classes  of  soci- 
ety would  be  placed  on  an  equality  with  the  domestic 
animals;  and  by  becoming  property,  become  valuable 
and  valued.  At  present  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  a 
horse  that  is  worth  fifty  pounds  is  much  more  cared  for 
than  a  man  who  is  worth  nothing.  We  have  lately  seen 
a  case  where  a  woman  was  allowed  to  expire  in  parturi- 
tion, because  no  more  than  eight  shillings  was  allowed  for 
the  midwife's  fee;  whereas,  when  a  famous  racing  mare 
foaled,  ten  guineas  were  not  thought  too  great  a  sum  to 
secure  the  attendance  of  a  first-rate  veterinary  surgeon. 
Now,  had  the  woman  been  a  slave,  her  offspring  would 
have  been  worth  something,  and,  of  course,  her  safety 
secured. 

Like  all  great  discoveries,  the  ramifications  of  the  ad- 
vantages are  found  to  be  endless,  and,  if  once  fully  enter- 
tained, would  be  irresistible.  Entire  and  complete  sla- 
very of  the  poor  would  put  an  end  to  all  the  discussions 
of  their  rights,  and  clearly  and  definitely  work  out  the 
relative  duties  of  all  classes.     "We  should   have  no  more 


234  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

• 

occasion  for  vague  special  pleading,  such  as  we  find  in 
Paley  and  other  moral  philosophers,  who  endeavor  to  re- 
concile dependence  and  independence,  and  liberty  and 
obedience.  Sedition  would  bo  at  once  annihilated ;  for 
where  there  was  no  hope  nor  recognition  of  equality, 
there  would  be  no  attempt  to  raise  claims  which  were 
.stifled  before  born.  All  vain  ambition,  such  as  that  now 
subsisting,  between  the  potboy  and  the  peer,  as  mani- 
fested in  Chesterfield's  mosaic  gold  and  cigars,  would  bo 
prevented.  The  potboy  would  be  a  contented  slave,  and 
the  peer  left  to  his  superiority  in  clothes,  trinkets,  and 
sensualities. 

It  will  of  course  be  asserted  that  the  people  would  not 
be  contented  as  slaves,  but  it  is  only  to  make  a  state  in- 
evitable, and  humanity  is  soon  reconciled  to  it,  as  we  are 
to  death,  governments,  and  the  income-tax.  Besides, 
what  is  liberty  ?  a  word  now  almost  forgotten  ;  a  battle 
sound  used  to  juggle  men  in  every  age  and  country;  in 
Greece,  Rome,  and  America,  the  war-cry  of  slaves  to 
fight  for  the  liberty  of  slavery.  3Iust  we,  then,  ever 
remain  the  tools  of  words;  reject  all  the  true  advantages 
of  slavery  because  we  cannot  bear  the  name,  and  take  all 
its  evils,  and  more,  because  we  wish  to  renounce  the 
sound  ?  AVhat  are  soldiers  and  sailors  but  bondsmen  ? 
Indeed,  they  are  a  happy  specimen  of  slaver}^ ;  well  fed, 
clad,  and  tended;  with  plenty  of  leisure  and  repose. 
Why,  then,  should  they  be  happier  than  the  peasant, 
who  pines  away  his  dre;iry  existence  on  bread  and  pota- 
toes and  water!*  What  is  the  convict  but  a  slave,  who 
by  his  crimes  has  earned  his  right  to  be  kept  well  and 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        235 

safe  from  the  elements  and  want  ?  We  reward  the  crim- 
inal with  slavery  and  competence,  and  leave  the  honest 
man  to  liberty  and  want. 

If,  indeed,  the  old  noble  cry  of  '*  Liberty  and  Beer" 
could  be  realized,  then  it  were  vain  to  urge  my  discov- 
ery ;  but  as  Englishmen,  in  proportion  as  they  have 
gained  their  liberty,  have  lost  their  beer,  it  behooves  us 
to  see  whether  they  had  not  better  hasten  back  to  that 
state,  when  inventoried  with  their  masters'  swine  they 
shared  also  their  sunerfluities. 


236  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

CHxiPTER    XVII. 

THE    EDINBURGH    REVIEW    ON    SOUTHERN    SLAVERY. 

The  Edinburgh  Review  -well  knows  that  the  white 
laborers  of  Enghmd  receive  more  blows  than  are 
inflicted  on  Southern  slaves.  In  the  Navy,  the  Ar- 
my, and  the  Merchant  service  of  England,  there  is 
more  of  cruelty,  more  physical  discomfort,  than  on 
all  the  farms  of  the  South.  This  Review,  for 
twenty  years,  has  been  a  grand  repository  of  the 
ignorance,  the  crimes,  and  sufferings  of  the  workers 
in  mines  and  factories,  of  the  agricultural  laborers, 
of  the  apprentices,  and,  in  fine,  of  the  whole  labor- 
ing class  of  England.  We  might  appeal  to  its 
pages  almost  passim  to  establish  these  facts.  Half 
the  time  of  Parliament  is  consumed  in  vain  efforts 
to  alleviate  the  condition  of  the  cruellj^-treated,  and 
starving  poor ;  and  much  of  tliis  Review  is  taken 
up  in  chronicling  the  humane,  but  fruitless  action  of 
Parliament.  No  man  in  the  South,  we  are  sure, 
ever  bred  slaves  for  sale.  They  are  always  sold 
reluctantly,  and  generally  from  necessity,  or  as  a 
punishment  for  misconduct.  The  South-West  has 
been  settled  in  great  part  by  farmers  from  the  older 
slave  States,  removing  to  them  with  their  negroes. 
The   breaking   up    of    families    of   whites    and  of 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  237 

blacks  keeps  equal  pace.  But  we  have  no  law  of 
impressment  in  the  South  to  sever  the  family  ties  of 
either  blacks  or  whites.  Kor  have  we  any  slavery- 
half  so  cruel  as  that  to  which  the  impressed  Eng- 
lish seaman  is  subjected.  The  soldiers  torn  from 
their  wives  and  children,  to  suffer  and  to  perish  in 
every  clime  and  on  every  sea,  excite  not  the  sympa- 
thies of  the  Reviewer ;  they  are  all  reserved  for  im- 
aginary cases  of  distress,  occasioned  by  the  break- 
ing up  of  families  of  Southern  negroes.  The  so- 
called  slave  trade  of  the  South  is  no  evil,  because 
the  instances  of  the  improper  severing  of  family 
ties  are  rare.  Will  some  Yankee  or  Englishman, 
ere  the  charge  is  repeated  that  slaves  are  bred  to  be 
sold  like  horses,  when  they  are  old  enough  for  mar- 
ket, point  out  a  single  instance  in  the  present,  or 
the  past,  of  a  Southerner's  pursuing  such  a  busi- 
ness? Yankees  and  Englishmen  kill  their  wives 
annually,  yet  it  has  not  occurred  to  Englishmen  at 
all,  and  not  to  the  Yankee  till  very  lately,  to  abol- 
ish the  marriage  relation.  When  Englishmen  cor- 
rect the  thousand  real  and  pressing  evils  in  their 
society,  it  Avill  be  time  enough  to  call  on  us  to  do 
away  with  the  imaginary  abuses  of  slavery.  These 
remarks  have  been  elicited  from  us  by  an  article  on 
Southern  slavery,  in  the  April  number  of  the  Edin- 
burgh Review,  which  is  equally  distinguished  for 
the  falsity  of  its  charges  and  the  ill  nature  of  its 
comments.     As  a  full  iustification  for  the  indefinite 


238  CANNIBALS   ALL;     OR, 

continuance  of  negro  slavery,  we  give  below  an  ex- 
tract from  an  able  article  from  the  same  Review,  in 
its  January  number,  184G,  entitled  "Legislation  for 
the  working  classes."  In  showing  the  many  evils 
arising  from  emancipating  the  whites,  the  Reviewer 
demonstrates,  though  not  intending  it,  the  absurdity 
of  emancipating  negroes.  If  Irishmen,  who  are  as 
intellectual  a  race  of  men  as  any  in  all  Europe, 
have  lost  infinitely  in  physical  comfort,  and  gained 
nothing  in  morals  or  in  mind  by  liberty,  what  will 
it  avail  negroes?  Let  Ilayti  and  Jamaica  answer. 
But  Frenchmen,  Scotchmen  and  Englishmen,  we 
mean  the  masses,  the  proletariat,  have  lost  as  much 
by  emancipation  as  Irishmen.  History  and  statis- 
tics, the  jails,  the  gallows,  and  T;he  poor-house  tell 
the  same  sad  tale  everywhere.  We  would  be  will- 
ing, if  necessary,  to  rest  the  complete  justification 
of  negro  slavery  on  this  single  extract: 

[From  the  Edinburgh  Review,  1846.] 
The  moral  and  domestic  feelings  of  the  slave  are  sacri- 
ficed, and  his  intellect  is  stunted;  but  in  respect  of  his 
physical  coudition  he  may  be  a  gainer.  "  It  is  necessa- 
ry," says  Aristotle,  in  his  celebrated  justification  of  sla- 
very, "  that  those  who  cannot  exist  separately  should  live 
together,  lie  who  is  capable  of  foreseeing  by  his  intel- 
lect, is  naturally  a  master;  he  who  is  able  to  execute 
with  bis  body  what  another  contrives,  is  naturally  a  slave  : 
wherefore  the  interest  of  the  master  and  slave  is  one." 
There  is  a  certain  degree  of  force  in  this  argument,  if  it 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  239 

is  limited  to  the  economical  relations  of  the  two  parties. 
It  is  the  interest  of  the  master  to  maintain  his  slave  in 
good  working  order.  In  general,  therefore,  he  is  com- 
paratively well  fed,  clothed  and  lodged;  his  physical 
wants  are  provided  for;  his  food  descends  into  his 
mouth  like  the  manna  in  the  wilderness;  he  is  clothed 
like  the  lilies  of  the  field ;  he  has  no  thought  or  care  for 
the  morrow.  Although  complaints  were  made  of  insuffi- 
cient food  and  overwork,  the  arguments  against  negro 
slavery  in  our  ^yest  India  colonies  were  founded,  mainly, 
on  the  necessity  of  constant  punishment — on  the  driving 
sj/afem,  as  it  was  called — and  the  cruelty  of  the  inflic- 
tions. The  Report  of  the  French  Commission,  framed 
by  the  Due  de  Broglie,  which  recommended  the  gradual 
abolition  of  slavery,  likewise  bears  testimony  to  the  excel- 
lent physical  condition  of  the  slaves  in  the  French  colo- 
nies. It  is  on  account  of  the  advantages  which  may  be- 
long to  dependence  upon  a  wealthy  lord,  as  compared 
with  a  needy  independence,  that  the  slave  in  Menander 
exclaims,  that  "  it  is  better  to  obtain  a  good  master,  than 
to  live  meanly  and  wretchedly  as  a  freeman."  So  the 
Rhetorician  Libanus,  who  lived  in  the  fourth  centur}',  in 
a  declamation  entitled  a  Viiujjcration  of  Puverty,  after 
having  enumerated  the  privations  and  sufi'erings  which, 
fall  to  the  lot  of  the  poor  freeman,  proceeds  thus  : — 
*'  None  of  these  evils  belong  to  slavery.  The  slave  sleeps 
at  his  ease,  being  fed  by  the  cares  of  his  master,  and 
supplied  with  all  the  other  things  needful  for  his  body. 
But  the  poor  freeman  is  constantly  awake,  seeking  the 
means  of  subsistence,  and  subjected  to  the  severe  domin- 
ion of  want  which  compels  him  to  hunger."     The  well- 


240  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

informed  author  of  JLiji  Baha  describes  the  astonish- 
ment cf  the  vizier  of  the  Sliah  of  Persia,  on  hearing 
from  the  British  ambassador  that  there  is  no  slavery  in 
England,  and  that  the  king  is  using  his  influence  to  put 
it  down  in  other  States.  <*  Indeed!"  said  the  vizier, 
"  jou  surely  cannot  be  so  cruel !  AVhat  would  become  of 
the  poor  slaves  if  they  were  free?  Nothing  can  be  hap- 
pier than  the  lot  of  ours;  but  if  they  were  abandoned  to 
their  fate,  they  would  starve  and  die.  They  arc  our 
children,  and  form  a  part  of  our  family." 

A  similar  feeling  is  described  by  Mr.  Kohl  as  existing 
among  the  serfs  in  the  Baltic  provinces  of  Russia,  with 
respect  to  their  recent  emancipation.  The  serf  is  now  no 
longer  ahscrlptus  tjlchse ;  but  it  is  not  difficult  for  his 
lord  to  find  the  means  of  detaining  him  on  the  estate  if 
he  wishes  so  to  do.  Mr.  Kohl  continue  thus  : — "  Though 
the  right  which  the  peasant  has  thus  obtained  is  so  fre- 
quently useless  to  him,  the  counter  right  of  his  master, 
of  banishing  him  from  his  native  place,  is  very  ofteu 
turned  against  him.  Formerly,  a  noble  could  not,  by 
any  means,  get  rid  of  his  serfs;  and,  whenever  they  were 
in  want,  he  was  forced  to  support  and  maintain  them.  At 
present,  the  moment  a  peasant  becomes  useless  and  bur- 
densome, it  is  easy  to  dismiss  him;  on  account  of  which 
the  serfs,  in  some  parts  of  the  provinces,  would  not  ac- 
cept of  the  emancipation  oifered,  and  bitterly  lamented 
the  freedom,  as  it  was  called,  which  was  forced  upon 
them.  The  serf  often  mournfully  complains  that  he  has 
lost  a  father  and  kept  a  master,  and  his  lord  now  often 
refuses  the  little  requests  of  his  peasants,  saying,  'You 
know  you  are  not  my  children  now.'  "     A  similar  state  of 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.  241 

feeling  is  likewise  reported  to  exist  among;  the  serfs  of 
Eussia  Proper,  who,  in  many  cases,  prefer  tlie  certainty 
of  slavery  to  the  risks  of  emancipation.  3Ir.  Feather- 
stonhaugh,  in  his  Travels  in  the  Slave  States  of  North 
America,  relates  that  Mr.  3Iadison,  the  ex-President,  in- 
formed him  that  he  had  once  assembled  all  his  numer- 
ous slaves,  and  oflered  to  manumit  them  immediately; 
*'  but  they  instantly  declined  it,  alleging  that  they  had 
been  born  on  his  estate,  had  always  been  provided  for  by 
hiai  witli  raiment  and  food,  in  sickness  and  in  health, 
and,  if  they  were  made  free,  they  would  have  no  home  to 
go  to,  and  no  friend  to  protect  and  care  for  them.  They 
preferred,  therefore,  to  live  and  die  as  his  slaves,  who  had 
always  been  a  kind  master  to  them." 

Slavery  excludes  the  principle  of  competition,  which 
reduces  the  wages  of  the  free  laborer,  increases  his  hours 
of  work,  and  sometimes  deprives  him  of  all  means  of, 
subsistence.  The  maintenance  of  slaves  as  one  house- 
hold, or  fumilia,  likewise  conduces  to  thrift;  their  sup- 
ply on  a  large  scale  is,  or  ought  to  be,  less  expensive  than 
when  each  laborer,  as  in  a  state  of  freedom,  has  a  sepa- 
rate cottage  and  a  family  of  his  own.  With  slaves  thus 
supported,  there  is  no  more  waste  than  with  horses  or  cat- 
tle. There  is  none  of  the  loss  or  damage  which  arises 
from  the  drunkenness  and  improvidence  of  the  free  la- 
borer expending  his  own  wages.  Again,  the  slave-master 
can  regulate  the  number  of  his  workmen,  and  can  in  this 
manner  control  the  amount  of  population.  The  means 
may  doubtless  be  harsh  and  cruel,  but  they  are  effective 
for  their  end.  In  general,  indeed,  slave  classes  show  a 
disposition  to  diminish  rather  than  increase  in  number; 
11 


242  CANNIBALS   ALL;    Oil, 

and,  where  tlic  plavc  trade  has  not  hecu  prohihitcd,  the 
number  is  kept  up  rather  by  new  importation  than  by 
births.  Hence  the  evils  of  an  abundant  population  never 
manifested  themselves  while  the  mass  of  the  people  was 
in  a  servile  and  semi-servile  state.  Moreover,  it  can 
scarcely  be  doubted,  that  under  certain  circum.stances  in- 
dustry may  be  promoted,  and  the  produce  of  the  land 
increased,  by  the  existence  of  a  slave  class.  Mr.  M'Cul- 
loch,  indeed,  thinks  that  the  tropical  countries  can  never 
be  effectually  cultivated  by  free  labor.  "Were  the  slaves 
completely  emancipated  in  the  United  States,  Cuba,  and 
Brazil,"  says  he,  "  it  is  all  but  certain  that  the  culture  of 
sugar  and  cotton  would  be  as  completely  abandoned  in 
them  as  in  Ilayti.  And  if  the  change  were  accompanied 
by  a  considerable  improvement  in  the  condition  of  the 
black  population,  the  sacrifice  might  not,  perhaps,  be 
deemed  too  great.  But  where  is  the  ground  for  suppos- 
ing that  such  would  be  the  case  ':*  Indeed,  the  fair  pre- 
sumption seems  to  be  the  other  way.  Little,  at  all  events, 
would  be  gained  by  turning  a  laborious,  well-fed  slave, 
into  an  idle,  improvident,  and  perhaps  beggarly  freeman." 
If  we  look  nierely  to  the  present,  and  confine  our  views 
to  economical  results,  Mr.  M'CulIoch's  arguments  cer- 
tainly appear  strong.  And  although  it  is  true  that  all 
hope  of  yi/ /«?•<?  improvement,  in  respect  of  his  physical 
condition,  is  denied  to  the  slave,  yet  it  must  be  admitted, 
that  practically,  and  looking  to  the  actual  generation,  the 
absence  of  a  power  of  rising  in  the  world  is  no  severe 
privation  to  a  peasant  class.  Neither  in  England  among 
the  agricultural  laborer.^!,  nor  in  the  Continental  States 
among  the  .small  proprietors,  arc  there  numy  instances  of 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        243 

a  person  quitting  the  condition  in  which  he  is  born.  Nor 
is  any  sl;vver\-  so  iudcirible  (where  the  slaves  have  the 
same  colored  skin  as  their  masters)  as  to  prevent  frequent 
emancipations  of  individual  slaves  from  personal  affection 
and  other  causes.  The  freedmen  formed  a  numerous 
class  among  the  Romans;  and  it  is  known  to  what  im- 
portant posts  slaves  have  risen  in  the  Turkish  empire. 

After  these  remarks,  (the  intention  of  which  cannot  be 
misunderstood  by  any  reader  of  this  Journal,)  we  can 
better  estimate  the  effects  of  the  change  from  slavery  to 
personal  freedom,  upon  the  emancipated  slave.  He  is  re- 
lieved from  the  liabilities  and  burdens,  but  he  at  the  same 
time  forfeits  the  advantages  of  slaver}'.  While  the  slave 
is  exonerated  from  his  legal  obligations  to  his  master,  the 
master  is  exonerated  from  his  legal  and  moriil  obligations 
towards  his  slave,  and  his  interest  in  the  conservation 
and  protection  of  his  slave  is  at  an  end.  The  slave  (to 
use  the  common  phrase)  becomes  his  own  master.  With 
the  acquisition  of  this  power,  he  incurs  the  obligations  of 
self-support.  lie  becomes  independent;  and,  being  so, 
he  must  provide  for  his  self-defence.  Self-dominion  is 
not  an  unmixed  good  to  the  work.  It  imports  onerous 
duties.  It  implies  the  necessity  of  providing  for  a  man's 
own  wants,  and  those  of  his  family.  The  frecdman  is  no 
longer  forced,  by  the  fear  of  corporal  punishment,  to  do 
a  prescribed  task  of  work.  But  ho  must  work  in  order 
to  earn  wages;  and,  what  is  more,  he  must  find  work  for 
himself  He  is  no  longer  incapable  of  acquiring  prop- 
ertv,  or  of  reaping  the  fruits  of  his  own  industry.  But 
he  is,  in  consideration  of  this  power,  bound  to  provide 
for  his  own  support.     He  is  no  longer  incapable  of  eon- 


244  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

tracting  a  lawful  marriage,  or  begetting  free  legitimate 
chiKlren.  But  he  is  bound  to  maintain  bis  wife  and  chil- 
dren by  bis  own  exertions;  and  if  he  deserts  them,  or 
allows  them  to  starve,  he  is  subject  to  legal  punishment. 
He  is  no  longer  fed  and  maintained  merely  according  to 
his  physical  wants,  without  reference  to  the  value  of  his 
services ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  he  is  delivered  over  to 
the  unchecked  operation  of  the  principle  of  competition ; 
and  he  must  content  himself  with  the  scanty  pittance 
which  the  rivalry  of  the  labor  market  may  assign  him. 
He  is  no  longer  treated  as  a  mere  animal  or  implement  of 
production,  without  feeling,  mind,  or  moral  character;  he 
does  not  follow  the  religion  of  his  master,  and  he  may 
voluntarily  choose  his  own  creed.  But,  in  becoming  a 
free  moral  agent,  he  accepts  the  responsibilities  of  that 
condition  ;  his  path  is  open  to  virtue,  but  he  is  answer- 
able for  his  acts  and  their  consequences  if  he  deviates 
into  other  wa3^s ;  he  can,  by  foresight,  determine  his  own 
lot,  but  he  must,  in  compensation,  suffer  the  penalties  of 
his  own  improvidence. 

When  we  contemplate  the  actual  results  of  the  change 
in  question,  and  compare  the  state  of  the  working  classes 
in  countries  where  they  are  free,  with  the  state  of  a  slave 
class,  we  find  that  the  only  benefits  of  freedom,  which 
have  been  fully  enjoyed  by  the  laboring  classes,  are  the 
negative  ones,  (such  as  exemption  from  bodily  inflictions, 
and  other  ill  treatment ;)  but  that  the  jmsifive  benefits 
which  the}''  have  hitherto  derived  from  the  social  inde- 
pendence, have  been  less  prominent.  The  positive  bene- 
fits— which  are  economical  and  domestic — which  consist 
in  the  acquisition,  enjoyment  and  transmission  of  wealth, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS,        245 

and  in  the  development  of  the  f;in)ilj  affections — are 
more  remote,  and  depend  on  nnmcrous  preliminary  condi- 
tions which  hitherto  have  rarely  co-esisted  in  any  com- 
munity. The  entire  harvest  of  the  change  will  not  be 
reaped  until  civilization  has  made  further  progress — until 
the  providence,  industry,  intelligence,  and  peaceableness 
of  the  working  man  are  such  as  to  render  him  altogether 
fit  for  self-support,  and  to  protect  society  against  the 
shocks  arising  from  his  delusions  and  violence. 

But,  in  proportion  as  the  positive  advantages  are  dis- 
tant, the  disadvantages  of  the  change  make  themselves 
sensibly  felt.  As  soon  as  slavery  has  ceased  to  exist,  the 
freedom  of  action  for  the  working  classes  is  complete ; 
thc}^  are  masters  of  their  own  conduct,  and  their  conduct 
determines  the  condition  of  the  great  mass  of  the  com- 
munity. If,  then,  their  moral  state  is  low,  and  they  are 
exempt  from  all  legal  compulsion,  they  are  likely  to 
make  a  bad  use  of  their  liberty.  Whenever  the  moral 
restraints  are  weak,  and  the  rights  of  the  freeman  are 
exercised  without  limitation,  and  with  an  inward  con- 
sciousness of  power,  political  or  social  dangers  cannot  be 
far  off.  A  slave-class,  emancipated  at  cuce,  affords  the 
strongest  exami)le  of  the  evils  arising  under  this  influ- 
ence. Their  moral  condition  is,  at  the  best,  like  that  of 
children;  they  have  had  no  experience  of  self-manage- 
ment; and  the  rights  of  ffeedom  are,  from  their  novelty, 
prized  most  highly.  Some  countries,  however,  from 
which  slavery  has  long  been  banished,  exhibit  a  nearly 
similar  state  of  things.  Thus,  in  Ireland,  the  freedom  of 
the  working  classes  has  produced  the  smallest  amount  of 
positive  advantages,  combined  with  the  largest  amount  of 


246  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OK, 

(lisadvantagos.  The  peasantry  are  in  the  lowest  physical 
degradation ;  they  derive  the  smallest  possible  quantum 
of  happiness  from  their  power  of  disposing  of  themselves 
and  their  families,  and  of  acquiring  property;  while 
their  rights  of  citizenship  are  too  frequently  perverted  to 
purposes  detrimental  to  themselves,  and  dangerous  to  the 
public  peace. 

When  the  slavery  of  the  working  classes  had  been 
gradually  extinguished  in  Western  Europe,  it  began  to 
be  seen  that  the  theory  of  personal  freedom  could  not  be 
carried  consistently  into  practical  effect  for  the  entire 
community.  A  man  might,  in  the  eye  of  the  law,  be 
presumed  able  and  bound  to  maintain  himself  and  his 
family :  but  want  of  industry,  or  intelligence,  or  provi- 
dence, or  the  rapine  of  the  strong,  might  reduce  him  to 
destitution  and  helplessness.  Accordingly,  unless  many 
of  the  laboring  class  were  to  be  permitted  to  die  of  hun- 
ger and  neglect,  it  was  necessary  to  find  some  means  of 
alleviating  their  sufferings. 

In  further  reply  to  the  Edinburgh  Reviewer,  and 
to  illustrate  by  examples  our  theory  of  "  Cannibals 
All;  or,  Slaves  without  Masters,"  read  the  follow- 
ing from  the  Nortli  British  Review  for  November, 
1855,  on  the  Rural  Population  of  England: 


Have  we  not  come  upon  a  very  paradise  of  rural  seclu- 
sion ?  Is  it  not  a  spot  to  bo  chosen  by  tho.se  who  are  in- 
tending to  while  away  existence  among  the  never  tiring 
sweets  of  a  country  life  ?    But  lot  us  step  on  a  little  way. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  247 

and  ovcrtalcc  the  group  of  chiMren  that  i.s  just  now  cross- 
ing the  coumion.  Ahis  !  j'et  i^hould  we  uot  vefruin  from 
expressing  the  sad  feelings  which  the  first  sight  of  these 
infant  shadows  has  awakened'/  feelings  heightened  hj^ 
contrast;  for  lately  we  were  making  our  way  through  a 
fourth  class  street,  where  the  prime  necessities  of  life  are 
amply  provided  for.  Besides,  if  we  look  a  second  time 
at  these  shrunken  forms — such  is  the  beneficence  of  the 
Creator — we  see  that  childhood  will  have  its  smiles,  its 
laughs,  its  gambols,  under  conditions  even  the  most  for- 
lorn. Moreover,  there  is,  notwithstanding  that  famished, 
watery  louk — there  is,  taking  the  group  altogether — there 
is  an  air  of  pure  rusticity — there  is  an  innocence,  com- 
paratively, and  a  modest  propriety — there  is  a  respectful- 
ness in  their  style  and  deportment  which  is  greatly  in 
their  favor  when  thought  of  in  comparison  with  the  bold, 
unreverential  sauciness  of  the  infant  Hercules  of  manu- 
facturing towns. 

But  look  at  these  unfortunates — the  infant  serfs  of  a 
neglected  rural  district !  Look  at  them  physiologically 
— observe  their  lank,  colorless  hair,  screening  the  sunken 
eye,  and  trailing  upon  the  bony  neck ;  look  at  the  hollow 
checks,  the  candle-like  arms,  and  the  unmuscular  shanks 
which  serve  the  young  urchins  for  legs  !  But  are  not 
these  children  breathing  a  pure  atmosphere  ?  Are  they 
not  Nature's  own  ?  Yes;  but  there  is  one  thing  wanting 
to  them — one  ominous  word  clears  up  the  mystery. 
Starvation !  Not,  indeed,  such  starvation  as  brings  the 
sorrows  of  a  sad  lot  to  a  speedy  end;  but  such  as  drags 
its  pining  sufferings  out,  through  the  overshadowed  years 
of  childhood  and  youth  ;    through  those  spasmodic  years 


248  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OR, 

of  manhood  during  which  the  strugfrlc  to  exist  wears  an 
aspect  of  rugged  rigor ;  and  then  through  that  residue  of 
early  decrepitude,  haggard,  bent,  idiot-like,  which  is  in- 
deed an  unblessed  end  of  an  unblessed  existence.  This 
rural  population  does  pretty  well  if  the  father  be  able- 
bodied  and  sober,  and  the  mother  managiug,  through  the 
summer  season,  of  wheat-hoeing,  hay-making,  and  wheat 
harvest ;  that  is  to  say,  when  the  labor  of  the  mother  and 
her  children  comes  in  to  swell  a  little  the  weekly  wages. 
During;  these  weeks  somethinsj  of  needed  clothino;  is  ob- 
tained,  rent  is  paid  up,  and  a  pittance  of  animal  food, 
weekly,  is  added  to  the  bread,  and  the  tea,  and  the  po- 
tato of  the  seven  months'  diet. 

It  would  bo  doing  a  wrong  to  our  worthy  farmer 
friends,  and  to  the  rural  sporting  gentry,  to  affirm  that 
these  miserables  are  actually  dying  of  want.  No,  they 
are  not  dying,  so  as  inquests  must  be  held  before  they 
may  be  buried — would  to  God  they  were — they  are  the 
living — they  are  living  to  show  what  extremities  men, 
women  and  children  may  endure,  and  yet  not  die;  or 
what  they  hold  to  be  worse,  not  to  betake  themselves  to 
*'  the  union  ! "  But  how  do  these  same  men,  women  and 
children  pass  five  months  of  the  year?  Gladly  would 
one  find  them  curled  round  like  hedgehogs,  and  byber- 
nating  in  hollow  trees;  in  rabbit  burrows,  lost  to  con- 
sciousness. We  should,  indeed,  count  it  a  jniracle  if,  on 
a  May  morning,  we  were  to  see  a  group  of  human  beings 
start  up  alive  from  the  sward,  along  with  the  paiglus  and 
the  cowslips.  But  it  is  much  less  than  a  miracle  to  see 
the  people  of  a  depressed  rural  district  stepping  alive  out 
of  the  winter  months  !     '■'     *     * 


SLAVES  AVITIIOUT    MASTERS.  249 

The  instances  are  extremely  rare  in  which  those  who 
were  born  to  the  soil,  and  destined  to  the  plow,  rise  above 
their  native  level.  Such  instances — two,  three,  or  five — 
might  be  luinted  up,  if  an  agricultural  county  were  ran- 
sacked for  the  purpose ;  but  the  agricultural  laborer, 
even  if  he  had  the  brain  and  the  ambition  recjuisite,  and 
if  otherwise  he  covild  effect  it,  would  seldom  bring  with 
him  that  which  the  social  mass,  into  wdiich  he  might  rise, 
especially  needs,  namely,  a  fully  developed  and  robust 
body.  Meantime,  what  is  it  that  is  taking  place  in  hun- 
dreds of  instances,  and  every  day,  throughout  the  entire 
area  of  the  manufacturing  region  ?  Men,  well  put  to- 
gether, and  with  plenty  of  bone,  and  nerve,  and  brain, 
using  with  an  intense  ardor  those  opportunities  of  ad- 
vancement which  abound  in  these  spheres  of  enterprise 
and  of  prosperous  achievement — such  men  are  found  to 
be  making  themselves  heard  of  among  their  betters,  are 
seen  well-dressed  before  they  reconcile  themselves  to  the 
wearing  of  gloves ;  by  rapid  advances  they  are  winning 
for  themselves  a  place  in  society — a  place  which,  indeed, 
they  well  deserve ;  and  there  they  are  doing  what  they 
had  not  thought  of — they  are  regenerating  the  mass  with- 
in which  they  have  been  received. 

We  extract  the  following  from  an  article  in  the 
Edinburgh  lleview'  on  Juvenile  and  Female  Labor, 
in  its  Januai-y  No.,  1844.  It  is  of  the  highest  au- 
thority, being  part  of  a  report  of  commissioners 
appointed  by  Parliament,  and  stands  endorsed  as 
well  by  the  action  of  Parliament  as  by  the  author- 
ity of  the  Reviewer : 


250  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

Our  limits  will  not  allow  us  to  go  tlirougli  all  tlic  em- 
ployments reportL'd  upon  in  tlies^o  volumes ;  bat,  as  speci- 
mens, -we  will  give  a  short  account  of  the  condition  of 
the  people  engaged  in  Coal  mines,  Calico-printing,  Metal 
wares,  Lace-making,  and   Millinery. 

Cual  Nines. — The  number  of  children  and  young  per- 
sons employed  in  these  mines  is  enormous;  and  they  ap- 
pear to  commence  Avorking,  even  viuderground,  at  an 
earlier  age  than  is  recorded  of  any  other  occupation  ex- 
cept lace-making.     The  Commissioners  report — 

''That  instances  occur  in  which  children  are  taken  into 
these  mines  to  work  as  early  as  four  years  of  age,  some- 
times at  five,  not  unfrcquently  between  six  and  seven, 
and  often  from  seven  to  eight,  while  from  eight  to  nine  is 
the  ordinary  age  at  which  their  employment  commences. 
That  a  ver}'  hfge  proportion  of  the  persons 
employed  in  these  mines  is  under  thirteen  years  of  age; 
and  a  still  larger  proportion  between  thirteen  and  eigh- 
teen. That  in  several  districts  female  children  begin  to 
work  in  the  mines  as  early  as  males. 

"  That  the  nature  of  the  employment  which  is  assigned 
to  the  youngest  children,  generally  that  of  'trapping,'  re- 
quires that  they  should  be  in  the  pit  as  soon  as  the  work 
of  the  day  commences,  and,  according  to  the  present  sy.s- 
tcm,  that  they  should  not  leave  the  pit  before  the  work 
of  the  day  is  at  an  end. 

"  That  although  this  employment  scarcely  deserves  the 
name  of  labor,  yet,  as  the  children  engaged  in  it  are 
commonly  excluded  from  light,  and  are  always  without 
companions,  it  would,  were  it  not  for  the  passing  and  re- 
passing of  the  coal  carriages,  amount  to  solitary  confine- 
ment of  the  worst  order. 

"That  in  some  districts  thejM'emain  in  solitude  and 
darkness  during  the  whole  time  they  are  in  the  pit,  and, 
according  to  their  own  account,  many  of  them  never  see 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  251 

the  lirvlit  of  day  for  weeks  together  daring  the  greater 
part  of  the  winter  season,  excepting  on  those  days  in  the 
week  when  work  is  not  going  on,  and  on  the  Sundays. 

"That  at  different  ages,  fioui  six  years  old  and  up- 
wards, the  hard  work  of  pushing  and  dragging  the  car- 
riages of  coal  from  the  workings  to  the  main  ways  or  to 
the  foot  of  the  shaft,  begins  :  a  labor  which  all  classes  of 
witnesses  concur  in  stating,  requires  the  unremitting  ex- 
ertion of  all  the  physical  power  which  the  young  workers 
possess. 

"That,  in  the  districts  in  which  females  are  taken 
down  into  the  coal  mines,  both  sexes  are  employed  to- 
gether in  precisely  the  same  kind  of  labor,  and  work  for 
the  same  number  of  hours ;  that  the  girls  and  boys,  and 
the  young  men  and  the  young  women,  and  even  married 
women  and  women  with  child,  commonly  work  almost 
naked,  and  the  men,  in  many  mines,  quite  nuked;  and 
that  all  classes  of  witnesses  bear  testimony  to  the  demor- 
alizing influence  of  the  employment  of  females  under- 
ground.* 

"That,  in  the  east  of  Scotland,  a  much  larger  propor- 
tion of  children  and  young  persons  are  employed  in  these 
mines  than  in  other  districts,  many  of  whom  are  girls  j 
and  that  the  chief  part  of  their  labor  consists  in  carrying 
the  coals  on  their  backs  up  steep  ladders. 

"  That  when  the  work-people  are  in  full  employment, 
the  regular  hours  of  work  for  children  and  young  per  ona 
are  rarely  less  than  eleven;  more  often  they  are  lirdre  ; 
in  some  districts  they  are  thirteen;  and  in  one  district 
they  are  generally /"o?n-^ee?i  and  upwards. 

"That  in  the  great  majoiity  of  these  mines  night-work 
is  a  part  of  the  ordinary  system  of  labor,  more  or  less 
regularly  carried  on  according  to  the  demand  for  coals, 


■'•"It  is,  however,  but  fair  to  state,  that  many  competent  and 
most  respectable  observers  clecUire,  tliat  though  the  fads  stated 
by  the  Commissioners  may  be  perfectly  true,  yet  tliat  the  tone 
and  spirit  of  the  Keport  bears  token  of  material  exaj;geration. 


252  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

and  one  wliicli  the  -wliolc  body  of  evidence  shows  to  act 
most  iujuiioiisly  both  on  the  ])!ij.sicul  and  moral  coudi- 
tiun  of  the  work-people,  and  more  especially  on  that  of 
the  children  and  young  persons. 

"  That  in  nuiny  cases  the  children  and  younu'  persons 
have  little  cause  of  complaint  in  regard  to  the  treatment 
they  receive,  while  in  many  mines  the  conduct  of  the 
adult  colliers  to  them  is  harsh  and  cruel;  the  persons  in 
authority  who  must  be  cognizant  of  this  ill  usage  never 
interfering  to  prevent  it,  and  some  of  them  distinctly  sta- 
ting that  tbey  do  not  coneeivc  they  have  a  right  to  do  so. 
That  with  some  exceptions  little  interest  is  taken  by  the 
coal-owners  in  the  children  employed  in  their  works  after 
the  daily  labor  is  over.  .  .  .  That  in  all  the  coal- 
fields accidents  of  a  fearful  nature  are  extremely  fre(|uent, 
and  of  the  work-people  who  perish  by  such  accidents,  the 
proportion  of  children  and  young  persons  sometimes  equals, 
and  rarely  falls  much  below  that  of  adults." — (First  Re- 
port, p.  255-7.) 

With  respect  to  the  general  healthiness  of  the  employ- 
ment, there  is  considerable  discrepancy  in  the  evidence 
adduced;  many  witnesses  stating  that  the  colliers  gener- 
ally, especially  the  adults,  are  a  remarkably  healthy  race, 
showing  a  very  small  average  of  sickness,*  and  recover- 
ing with  unusual  rapidity  from  the  severest  accidents; — 
a  peculiarity  which  the  medical  men  reasonably  enough 
attribute  to  the  uniform  temperature  of  the  mines,  and 
still  more  to  the  abundance  of  nutritious  food  which  the 
high  wages  of  the  work-people  enable  them  to  procure. 
The  great  majority  of  the  witnesses,  however,  give  a  very 
different  impression.  Upwards  of  two  hundred,  whose 
testimony  is  quoted,  or  referred  to  in  the  Report  of  the 


*  The  colliers  in  the  east  of  Scotland,  however,  are  excepted. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        253 

Central  Commissioners,  testify  to  the  extreme  fatigue  of 
the  children  when  they  return  home  at  night,  and  to  the 
injurious  effect  which  this  ultimately  produces  on  their 
constitution. 

While  the  eifect  of  such  early  and  severe  labor  is,  to 
cause  a  peculiar  and  extraordinary  degree  of  muscular 
development  in  collier  children,  it  also  stunts  their 
growth,  and  produces  a  proportionate  diminution  of  stat- 
ure, as  is  sliown  by  the  following  comparison. — (Physical 
and  Moral  Condition  of  Children,  p.  55.) 

10  Farmers'    boys,  between    12 

and    11    years,    measured, 

each,  -  -  -     56.4  inches  in  height. 

10  Colliers'  boys,  -  -     53.4       '•  '' 


Difference,             -  3.         "              " 
10  Farmers'   girls,   between    14 

and    17    years,    measured, 

each,           -              -              -  GO. 5  inches  in  height. 

10  Colliers'  girls,           -             -  55.(5       "              "" 


Difference,  -       4.9 

51  Farmers'  children,  10  years 

old,  measured,  each,  -  51. 

GO  Colliers'  children,  -  4S. 


Difference,              -  3. 

49  Farmers'  children,  152  years 

old,  measured,  each,              -  59. 

50  Colliers'  children,                   -  53. 


Difference, 


*It  is  curious  to  contrast  this  with  a  similar  comparison  insti- 
tuted   hy  the   Factory  Commissioners,  ami  embracing  upwards 


254  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

Labor  in  coal  mines  is  also  stated,  by  a  great  number 
of  most  respectable  \Yitnesst's,  to  produce  a  cripj)led  gait, 
and  a  curvature  of  the  spinal  column,  as  well  as  a  vari- 
ety of  disorders — among  which  may  be  enumerated,  af- 
fections of  the  heart,  rupture,  asthma,  rheumatism,  and 
loss  of  appetite; — and  this  not  merely  in  a  few  cases,  but 
as  an  habitual,  and  almost  inevitable  result  of  their 
occupation. 

"Of  the  cffeft  of  employment  in  the  coal  mines  of  the 
East  of  k^cotland  in  producing  an  early  and  irreparable 
deterioration  of  the  physical  condition,  the  Sub-commis- 
sioner thus  reports: — '  In  a  state  of  society,  such  as  has 
been  desciibed,  the  condition  of  the  children  may  be 
easily  imagined,  and  its  baneful  influence  on  the  health 
cannot  well  be  exaggerated;  and  I  am  informed  by  very 
competent  authorities,  that  six  months'  labor  in  the  mines 
is  sufiicient  to  eflect  a  very  visible  change  in  the  physical 
condition  of  the  children  :  and  indeed  it  is  scarcely  pos- 
sible to  conceive  of  circumstances  more  calculated  to  sow 
the  seeds  of  future  disease,  and,  to  borrow  the  language 
of  the  instructions,  to  prevent  the  organs  from  being  de- 
veloped, to  enfeeble  and  disorder  their  functions,  and  to 
subject  the  whole  system  to  injury,  which  cannot  be  re- 


of  1000  cliiklren.  —  (Analysis  of  the  Evidence  taken  before  the 
Factory  Coiimiissioners,  p.  'J.) 

Boys  not  in  factories  averaged  50.50  inches. 

Boys  in  factories,              "  55.28       " 

Difference,  .28! 

Girls  }iol  in  factories,       "  51. 970     " 

Girls  in  factories,              "  54.'J51     " 

Difference,  .028:!" 


SLAVES  AVITHOUT    MASTERS.  255 

paireil  at  any  subsequent  stan-e  of  life.' — ^Frank's  Re- 
port, s.  GS  :  App.  Pt.  I,  p.  o9i3.)  In  tlio  West  of  Scut- 
land,  Dr.  Thomson,  Ayr,  says: — 'A  collier  at  fifty  2;en - 
erally  has  the  appearance  of  a  man  ten  years  older  than 
he  is.'"— (Evidence,  No.  34;  App.  Pt.  I,  p.  371,1. 
58.) 

If  we  turn  to  the  testimony  as  to  the  moral,  intellec- 
tual, and  spiritual  state  of  the  great  mass  of  the  collier 
population,  the  picture  is  even  darker  and  more  appalling 
than  that  which  has  been  drawn  of  their  physical  condi- 
tion. The  means  of  instruction  to  which  they  have  ac- 
cess are  scanty  in  the  extreme ; — their  readiness  to  avail 
themselves  of  such  means,  if  possible  still  scantier;  and 
the  real  results  of  the  instruction  they  do  obtain,  scan- 
tiest of  all — as  the  following  extracts  will  show  : — 

"  As  an  example  of  the  mental  culture  of  the  collier 
children  in  the  neighborhood  of  Halifax,  the  Sub-com- 
missioner states,  that  an  examination  of  219  children  and 
young  persons  at  the  bottom  of  one  of  the  coal-pits,  he 
found  onl}'  31  that  could  read  an  easy  book,  not  more 
than  15  that  could  write  their  names,  these  latter  having 
received  instruction  at  some  day-school  before  they  com- 
menced colliery  labor,  and  that  the  whole  of  the  remain- 
ing number  were  incapable  of  connecting  two  syllables 
together." — (Scriven,  PtCDort,  Mines :  App.  Pt.  II,  73, 
s.  91.) 

"Of  the  state  of  education  in  the  coalfields  of  Lan- 
cashire, the  Sub-commissioner  gives  the  following  ac- 
count:— 'It  was  my  intention  to  have  laid  before  the 
Central  Board  evidence  of  the  effects  of  education,  as 
shown  by  the  comparative  value  of  educated  and  unedu- 
cated colliers  and  children  employed  in  coal  mines,  as 
workmen,  and  to  have  traced  its  effects,  as  shown  by  the 
superior  moral  habits  and  generally  more  exalted  condi- 


256  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OR, 

tion  of  those  who  had  received  the  benefits  of  education 
over  those  who  had  not,  which  I  had  observed  and  proved 
to  exist  in  other  bninches  of  industry.  I  found,  liuw- 
ever  that  the  case  was  hopeless;  there  were  so  i'ew,  either 
of  colliers  or  their  children,  who  had  even  received  the 
first  rudiments  of  education,  that  it'was  impossible  to  in- 
stitute a  compariscm.' — (Kennedy,  lleport,  Mines:  App. 
Pt.  II,  p.  18a,  s.  2GS.) 

"  In  the  coaltields  of  North  Lancashire  examined  by 
Mr.  Austin,  it  is  stated  that  the  education  of  the  work- 
ing-people has  been  almost  wholly  neglected  ;  that  they 
have  received  scarcely  any  in.struction  at  all,  either  reli- 
gious or  secular;  that  they  cannot  therefore  be  supposed 
to  have  any  correct  conception  of  their  moral  duties,  and 
that  in  fact  their  intellects  are  as  little  enlightened  as 
their  places  of  work — 'darkness  reigns  throughout.' — 
(Ileport,  Mines  :    App.  Pt.  II,  p.  805,  s.  20.) 

"  In  the  East  of  Scotland  a  marked  inferiority  in  the 
collier  children  to  those  of  the  town  and  manufacturing 
population.  Upwards  of  100  heads  of  collier  families, 
most  of  whom  leave  their  children  to  themselves — to  ig- 
norance and  irreligion." — {Ibid.  p.  -120,  1.  42.)  'Many 
of  the  children  are  not  educated  at  all.'" — {Ibid.  p.  428' 
1.  30.) 

It  appears  that,  in  the  principal  mining  districts,  few 
of  the  colliers  attend  any  place  of  worship ;  and  of  their 
entire  ignorance  of  the  most  elementary  truths,  either  of 
secular  or  religious  knowledge,  the  following  extracts  will 
give  some  idea  : — 

"YoRKSTlTRK. — 'With  respcct  even  to  the  common 
truths  of  Christianity  and  facts  of  Scripture,'  says  Mr. 
Symons,  'I  am  confident  that  a  majority  are  in  a  state  of 
lieathen  ignorance.  I  unhesitatingly  affirm  that  the  mi- 
ning children,  as  a  body,  are  growing  up  in  a  state  of 
absolute  and  apjialling  ignorance;  and  I  am  sure  that  the_, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        257 

evidence  I  horewitli  transmit,  alike  from  all  classes — clor- 
pvmeu,  ma;:istratcs,  masters,  men,  and  children — will 
fully  substantiate  and  justify  tlie  strength  of  the  expres- 
sions which  I  have  alone  felt  to  be  adequate  to  charac- 
terize the  mental  condition  of  this  benighted  community.' 

"  'Throughout  the  whole  district  of  the  coal-field,'  says 
iMr.  Scriven,  'the  youthful  population  is  in  a  state  of  pro- 
fancness,  and  almost  of  mental  imbecility.' 

"'The  ignorance  and  the  degi'aded  state  of  the  colliers 
and  their  children,'  says  3Ir.  Kennedy,  'are  proverbial 
throughout  this  district.  They  are  uneducated,  ignorant, 
and  brutal ;  deteriorated  as  workmen  and  dangerous  as 
subjects.'  " 

But  nothing  can  show  their  mental  state  in  so  striking 
a  manner,  as  the  evidence  derived  from  the  examination 
of  the  children  themselves,  by  the  Sub-commissioner : — 

'"A  girl  eighteen  years  old — I  never  learnt  nought. 
I  never  go  to  church  or  chapel.  I  have  never  heard  that 
a  good  man  came  into  the  world,  who  was  God's  Son,  to 
save  sinners.  I  never  heard  of  Christ  at  all.  Nobody 
has  ever  told  me  about  him,  nor  have  my  father  and  mo- 
ther ever  taught  me  to  pray.  I  know  no  prayer  :  I  never 
pray.  I  have  been  taught  nothing  about  such  things.' — 
(Evidence,  jMines,  p.  252,  11,  ^5,  89.)  'The  Lord  sent 
Adam  and  Eve  on  earth  to  save  sinners.' — (^IJiid.  p.  245, 
1.  GG.)  '■  I  don't  know  who  made  the  world ;  I  never 
heard  about  God.' — {Ihid.  p.  228, 1.  17.)  '  Jesus  Christ 
was  a  shepherd ;  he  came  a  hundred  years  ago  to  receive 
sin.  I  don't  know  who  the  Apostles  were.' — (Ibid.  p. 
232,  1.  11.)  'Jesus  Christ  was  born  in  heaven,  but  I 
don't  know  what  happened  to  him ;  he  came  on  earth  to 
commit  sin.  Yes;  to  commit  sin.  Scotland  is  a  coun- 
try, but  I  don't  know  where  it  is.  I  never  henrd  of 
France.' — {Ibid.  p.  265,  1.  17.)  '  I  don't  know  who  Je- 
sus Christ  was ;  I  never  saw  him,  but  I've  seen  Foscer, 
who  prays  about  him.' — (Ibid.  p.  201,  1.  Go.)     'I  have 


258  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OR, 

been  three  years  at  a  Sunday-school.  I  don't  know  who 
the  Apostles  wore.  Josiis  Christ  died  for  his  son  to  bo 
savod.' — (ILld.  245,  1.  10.)  Employer  (to  the  Coniinis- 
sioner,)  'You  have  expressed  surprise  at  Thomas  Mitch- 
ell (the  preceding  witness)  not  having  heard  of  God.  I 
judge  there  arc  few  colliers  hereabouts  that  have.' " — 
(Second  Keport,  p.  loG.) 

The  moral  state  of  the  collier  population  is  represented 
by  the  Sub-conimissioners  as  deplorable  in  the  extreme  : — 

"Lancasdire. — 'AH  that  I  have  seen  myself/  says 
the  Sub-commissioner,  'tends  to  the  same  conclusion  as 
the  preceding  evidence;  namely,  that  the  moral  condition 
of  the  colliers  and  their  children  in  this  district,  is  deci- 
dedly amongst  the  lowest  of  any  portion  of  the  working- 
classes.' — Ibid,  lleport,  s.  278,  el  scq.) 

"  Durham  and  Nortiiu.mukklanj). — The  religious 
and  moral  condition  of  the  children,  and  more  particu- 
larly of  the  young  persons  employed  in  the  collieries  of 
North  Durham  and  Northumberland,  is  stated  by  clergy- 
men and  others,  witnesses,  to  be  'deplorable.'  'Their 
morals,'  they  say,  *  are  bad,  their  education  worse,  their 
intellect  very  much  debased,  and  their  carelessness,  irre- 
ligion,  and  immorality'  exceeiling  any  thing  to  be  found 
in  an  agricultural  district." — (Leifchild,  lleport,  Mines: 
Evidence,  Nos.  7U5,  530,  500,  493,  068.) 

Calico-Printlng. — This  employs  a  vast  number  of  chil- 
dren of  both  sexes,  who  have  to  mix  and  grind  the  colors 
for  the  adult  work-people,  and  are  commonly  called  teer- 
ers.  They  begin  to  work,  according  to  the  lleport,  some- 
times before  live  years  of  age,  often  between  five  and  six, 
and  generally  before  nine.  The  usual  hours  of  labor  are 
twelve,  including  meal-time;  but  as  the  children  gener- 
ally work  the  same  time  as  the  adults,  "  it  is  by  no  means 


SLAVES  WITUOUT    MASTERS.  259 

uncommon  in  all  the  districts  for  cliUdren  of  five  or  six 
T/ears  old  to  he  L-cpt  at  icork  fourteen  and  even  sixteen 
hours  conscciUivcIj." — (Second  Report,  p.  59.)  In  many 
instances,  however,  it  will  be  seen  that  even  these  hours 
are  shamefully  exceeded,  during  a  press  of  work. 

"  352.  Thomas  Sidbread,  block-printer,  after  taking  a 
child  who  had  already  been  at  work  all  day  to  assist  him 
as  a  teerer  through  the  night,  says — '  We  b^'gan  to  work 
between  eight  and  nine  o'clock  on  the  Wednesday  night; 
but  the  boy  had  been  sweeping  the  shop  from  Wednesday 
morning.  You  will  scarcely  believe  it,  but  it  is  true — I 
never  left  the  shop  till  six  o'clock  on  the  Saturday  morn- 
ing; and  I  had  never  stopped  working  all  that  time,  ex- 
cepting for  an  hour  or  two,  and  that  boy  with  me  all  the 
time.  I  was  knocked  up,  and  the  boy  was  almost  in- 
sensible.' 

"353.  Henry  Richardson,  block-printer,  states — 'At 
four  o'clock  I  began  to  work,  and  worked  all  that  day,  all 
the  next  night,  and  until  ten  the  following  day.  I  had 
only  one  teerer  during  tliat  time,  and  I  dare  say  he  would 
be  about  twelve  years  old.  I  had  to  shout  to  him  to- 
wards the  second  night,  as  he  got  sleepy.  I  had  one  "of 
my  own  children,  about  ten  years  old,  who  was  a  teerer. 
He  worked  with  me  at  Messrs.  Wilson  &  Crichton's,  at 
Blakeh'.  We  began  to  work  together  about  two  or  three 
in  the  morning,  and  left  off  at  four  or  five  in  the  after- 
noon.' 

Kight-work,  too,  with  all  its  evil  consequences,  is  very 
common  in  this  trade; — and  of  the  general  state  of  edu- 
cation among  the  block-printers  in  LancashirCj  the  Com- 
missioners thus  speak,  (p.  172.) 

"  The  evidence  collected  by  Mr.  Kennedy  in  the  Lan- 
cashire district,  tends  to  show  that  the  children  emploj^ed 
in  this  occupation  are  excluded  from  the  opportunities  of 


260  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

education  ;  that  this  nccessaril}'  contributes  to  t])c  frrowth 
ol"  an  ignorant  and  vicious  population  ;  that  the  i'acility  of 
obtaining  earlv  cinploynient  for  chiklren  in  print-fields 
empties  the  day-schools  ;  that  parents  without  hesitation 
sacrifice  the  future  welfare  of  their  children  through  life 
for  the  inunediate  advantage  or  gratification  obtained  by 
the  additional  pittance  derived  from  the  child's  earnings, 
and  that  they  imagine,  or  pretend,  that  they  do  not  neg- 
lect their  children's  education  if  thcj  send  them  to  Sun- 
day-schools." 

Metal  Wares. — The  chief  seats  of  manufactures ,  in 
metal  are  Birmingham,  Wolverhampton,  and  Sheffield; 
but  many  of  the  minor  branches  are  carried  on  in  differ- 
ent parts  of  Scotland,  and  in  Worcestershire  and  Lan- 
cashire. In  the  various  departments  of  this  species  of 
manufacture  many  thousands  of  children  of  both  sexes 
are  employed.  They  begin  to  work  generally  about  their 
eiglith  year,  as  in  Birmingham  and  Sheffield,  but  often 
earlier;  while  in  pin-making,  as  carried  on  at  Warring- 
ton, both  boys  and  girls  commence  when  /zt-c  years  old, 
and  work  twclce  lujun  a-day,  and  sometimes,  though  rare- 
ly, even  more.  The  hours  of  work  in  most  of  the  metal 
manufactures  are  very  irregular,  generally  from  ten  to 
thirteen  a-day ;  but,  especially  in  the  neighborhood  of 
Wolverhampton,  it  is  b}'  no  means  unfrequent  to  extend 
them  to  fifteen  or  sixteen  for  weeks  together.  The  places 
in  which  the  occupations  are  carried  on  are  occasionally 
large,  clean,  and  well  ventilated;  but  in  the  great  major- 
ity of  cases,  a  ver}'  diirorent  description  of  them  is  given. 

"In  general  the  buildings  arc  ver}'  old,  and  many  of 
them  are  in  a  dilapidated,  ruinous,  and  even  dangerous 


SLAVES   "WITHOUT   MASTERS.  261 

condition.  Xotliiug  is  more  common  tlinii  to  find  many 
of  the  windows  broken;  in  some  cases  I  observed  more 
broken  than  whole  panes  ;  great  and  just  comphiint  is 
made  upon  this  point  by  those  employed.  The  shops  are 
often  dark  and  narrow ;  many  of  them,  especially  those 
used  for  stamping,  are  from  four  to  seven  feet  below  the 
level  of  the  ground ;  these  latter,  which  are  cold  and 
damp,  are  justly  complained  of  by  the  workers.  From 
defective  construction  all  these  old  shops  are  liable  to  be- 
come 'sufficatingly  hot  in  summer  (and  also  at  night 
when  the  gas  is  lighted)  and  very  cold  in  winter.  Effi- 
cient ventillation  is  a  thing  unknown  in  these  places. 
The  great  majority  of  the  shops  are  never  whitewashed, 
but  there  are  many  creditable  exceptions  to  this  statement.' 
"  It  has  been  already  stated,  that  although  the  whole 
population  of  the  town  of  Wolverhampton  and  the  neigh- 
borhood, of  all  ranks,  are  engaged  in  the  different  manu- 
factures of  the  place,  yet  that  there  are  few  manufacto- 
ries of  large  size,  the  work  being  commonly  carried  on  in 
small  workshops.  These  workshops  are  usually  situated 
at  the  backs  of  the  houses,  there  being  very  few  in  the 
front  of  a  street ;  so  that  the  places  where  the  children 
and  the  great  body  of  the  operatives  are  employed  are 
completely  out  of  sight,  in  narrow  courts,  unpaved  yards, 
and  blind  alleys.  In  the  smaller  and  dirtier  streets  of 
the  town,  in  which  the  poorest  of  the  working  classes  re- 
side, '  there  are  narrow  passages,  at  intervals  of  every 
eight  or  ten  houses,  and  sometimes  at  every  third  or  fourth 
house.  These  narrow  passages  are  also  the  general  gut- 
ter, which  is  by  no  means  always  confined  to  one  side,  but 
often  streaming  all  over  the  passage.  Having  made  your 
way  through  the  passage,  you  find  yourself  in  a  space 
varying  in  size  with  the  number  of  houses,  hutches,  or 
hovels  it  contains.  They  are  nearly  all  proportionately 
ci'owded.  Out  of  this  space  there  are  other  narrow  pas- 
sages, sometimes  leading  to  other  similar  hovels.  The 
workshops  and  houses  are  mostly  built  on  a  little  elevation 
sloping  towards  the  passage.'" — (Second  Report,  p.  38.) 


262  CANNIBALS  ALL  ;    OR, 

The  most  painful  portions,  liowovcr,  of  the  Report  on 
the  nietul  nianufaetiires,  arc  those  which  rehite  to  the 
treatment  of  the  chiUlren  and  apprentices  at  Willenhall, 
near  Wolverhampton,  and  to  tlie  noxious  influences  of 
those  departments  T\'hich  arc  carried  on  at  Sheffield. — (P. 
83.) 

"455.  The  district  which  requires  special  notice  on 
account  of  the  general  and  ahnost  incredible  abuse  of  the 
children,  is  that  of  Wolverhampton  and  the  neighborhood. 
In  the  town  of  Wolverhampton  itself,  among  the  large 
masters  children  are  not  punished  with  severity,  and  in 
some  of  the  trades,  as  among  the  japanners,  they  are  not 
beaten  at  all;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  in  the  nail  and  tip 
manufactories,  in  some  of  the  founderies,  and  among  the 
very  numerous  class  of  smad  masters  generally,  the  pun- 
ishments are  harsh  and  cruel ;  and  in  some  cases  they  can 
only  be  designated  as  ferocious. 

"456.  In  ^Villenhall  the  children  are  shamefidly  and 
most  cruelly  beaten  with  a  horsewhip,  strap,  stick,  ham- 
mer handle,  tile,  or  whatever  tool  is  nearest  at  hand,  or 
are  struck  with  the  clenched  fist  or  kicked. 

"457.  In  Sedglcy  they  are  sometimes  struck  with  a 
red-hot  iron,  and  burnt  and  bruised  simultaneous]}'; 
sometimes  they  have  'a  flash  of  lightning'  sent  at  them. 
'  When  a  bar  of  iron  is  drawn  white-hot  from  the  forge  it 
emits  fiery  particles,  which  the  man  commonly  flings  in  a 
shower  upon  the  ground  by  a  swing  of  his  arm  before 
placing  the  bar  upon  the  anvil.  This  shower  is  some- 
times directed  at  the  boy.  It  may  come  over  his  hands 
and  face,  his  naked  arms,  or  on  his  breast.  If  his  shirt 
be  open  in  front,  which  is  usually  the  case,  the  red-hot 
particles  are  lodged  therein,  and  he  has  to  shake  them 
out  as  fast  as  he  can.'     .     .     .     *Ilis  master's  name  is 

,  of  Little  London.     There  is  another  apprentice 

besides  him,  who  is  treated  just  as  bad.'     ,  aged 

fifteen,  '  works  at  Knobloeks  with .     Is  a  fellow- 


SLAVES   AVITHOUT   MASTERS.  263 

apprentice  with .  Lives  in  the  house  of  his  mas- 
ter. Ts  beaten  by  his  master,  who  bits  him  sometimes 
Avith  his  ii.'-ts,  and  sometimes  with  the  file  liaft,  and  some- 
times witli  a  stick — it's  no  matter  wbat  when  he's  a  bit 
cross;  sometimes  hits  him  with  the  locks;  has  cut  his 
head  open  four  or  five  times ;  so  he  has  his  felk^w-appren- 
tice's  bead.' 

"46G.  The  Rev.  Isaac  CLirkson,  magistrate,  vicar  of 
Wcdnesbury  :  'In  his  capacity  of  magistrate  complaints 
often  come  before  him,  made  by  boys  against  masters, 
from  different  places  round  about,  such  as  Willenhall  and 
Darlaston,  but  he  did  not  encourage  them,  as  they  should 
more  properly  apply  to  the  magistrates  of  Wolverhamp- 
ton. More  complaints  came  before  him  from  the  mines 
than  from  the  manufactories;  but  sometimes  there  was 
very  bad  u.sage  in  the  latter.  A  boy  from  Darlaston  has 
recently  been  beaten  most  unmercifully  with  a  red-hot 
piece  of  iron.  The  boy  was  burnt — fairly  burnt.  Wished 
to  cancel  the  indentures;  but  the  master  had  been  to  the 
board  of  guardians,  or  to  the  clerk  of  the  Stafford  union, 
and  promised  to  behave  better  in  future.  Has  had  vari- 
ous similar  cases  broiight  before  him.'" 

The  following  statements  of  the  Commissioners  de- 
mand serious  consideration. — (Second  Report,  p.  105.) 

"  5S1.  But  the  chief  disease  is  that  produced  by  the 
occupation  of  the  grinder,  which  is  the  most  pernicious 
of  any  branch  of  manufacture  in  England.  The  inhala- 
tion of  the  dust  of  the  grindstone  and  of  the  steel  of  the 
knife,  or  whatever  he  may  be  grinding,  is  so  pernicious, 
that  the  life  of  a  dry  grinder  scarcely  averages  thirty-five 
years,  whilst  that  of  a  wet  grinder  is  seldom  prolonged  to 
more  than  forty-five  years.  The  bent  posture  and  pres- 
sure on  the  stomach  aggravate  the  evil.  Fork-grinding  is 
the  most  pernicious,  because  it  is  done  dry,  and  a  great 
deal  more  of  the  steel  has  to  bo  ground  off.  Dr.  Knight 
states  that  he  cannot  better  express  bow  injurious  grind- 


26-1  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OK, 

ing  is  to  the  health  than  by  statiiiir,  that  '  they  ■who  arc 
the  crrcutost  drinkers  aiiiong  the  grinders  are  soiiietiiues 
the  lonirest  lived,  owing  to  their  more  frequent  absence 
from  their  work.' 

''  58"2.  Dust  flues,  in  the  state  of  perfection  to  which 
they  have  now  been  brought,  appear  to  be  capable  of 
greatly  diminishing  if  not  of  entirely  obviating  the  evil. 
The  Sheffield  grinders  cannot,  however,  be  induced  to 
avail  themselves  of  this  security;  they  know  that  they 
are  doomed  to  an  early  death,  yet  they  are  absolutely  un- 
willing that  the  evil  to  which  they  are  exposed  should  in 
any  degree  be  lessened  ;  they  regard  every  precaution  to 
prolong  life  with  jealousy,  as  a  means  of  increasing  the 
supply  of  labor  and  lowering  wages ;  they  are  for  '  a  short 
life  and  a  merry  one,'  and  hence,  even  when  the  masters 
arc  at  the  expense  of  erecting  the  apparatus,  these  men 
refuse  to  use  it,  and  even  frequently  kick  it  down  and 
break  it  under  their  feet.'" — (^Ibid.  Evidence.) 

As  to  the  moral  state  of  this  class  of  work-people,  the 
Report  speaks  thus. — (Second  lleport,  p.  176-178.) 

"933.  Tlie  moral  and  religious  state  of  the  children 
and  young  persons  employed  in  the  trades  and  manufac- 
tures of  Birmingham,  is  described  by  the  Sub-commis- 
sioner as  very  unfavorable.  Tlie  social  and  domestic  du- 
ties and  aftections  are  but  little  cultivated  and  practiced; 
great  numbers  never  attend  any  place  of  religious  worship  ; 
and  of  the  state  of  juvenile  crime  some  conception  may 
be  formed  from  the  statement,  that  of  the  total  number 
of  known  or  suspected  offenders  in  this  town,  during  the 
last  twelve  months,  namely  1223,  at  least  one-half  were 
under  fifteen  years  of  age. 

"■  934.  As  to  illicit  sexual  intercourse,  it  seems  to  pre- 
vail almost  universally,  and  from  a  very  early  period  of 
life  :  to  this  conclusion  witnesses  of  every  rank  give  tes- 
timony. 

"  9oG.   WoLVKRUAMPTOX. — Of  the  moral  condition  of 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        265 

the  youthful  population  in  tlie  Wolverhampton  district, 
jMr.  Ilorne  says — '  Putting  together  all  I  elicited  from 
various  witnesses  and  conversations  with  woiking  people, 
abroad  and  at  home,  and  all  that  fell  under  my  observa- 
tion, I  am  obliged  to  come  to  the  conclusion,  that  the 
moral  virtues  of  the  great  niajorit}-  of  the  children  are  as 
few  in  number  and  as  feeble  in  practice  as  can  well  be 
conceived  of  those  who  are  boi-n  in  a  civilized  country, 
surrounded  by  religious  and  educational  institutions,  and 
by  individuals  anxious  for  the  improvement  of  the  condi; 
tion  of  the  working  classes.'  lie  adds  of  Willenhall — 
'  A  lower  condition  of  morals,  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the 
term,  could  not,  I  think,  be  found.  I  do  not  mean  by 
this  that  there  are  man}^  more  prominent  vices  among 
them,  but  that  moral  feelings  and  sentiments  do  not  exist 
amonj;  them.     They  have  no  morals.' 

"940.  Sheffield. — In  all  the  Sheffield  trades  em- 
ploying large  numbers  of  children,  it  is  stated  that  there 
is  a  much  closer  intermixture  of  the  j'ounger  children 
with  the  elder  youths,  and  with  the  men,  than  is  usual  in 
the  cotton,  woollen,  and  flax  factories;  and  that  the  con- 
versations to  which  the  children  are  compelled  to  listen, 
would  debase  their  minds  and  blunt  their  Luoral  feelings 
even  if  the\'  had  been  carefally  and  virtuously  educated, 
but  that  of  course  this  result  takes  place  more  rapidly  and 
completely  in  the  case  of  those  who  have  had  little  or  no 
religious  culture,  and  little  but  bad  example  before  their 
eyes  from  their  cradle  upwards. 

"  943.  Habits  of  drinking  ai-e  formed  at  a  very  early 
age,  malt  liquor  being  generally  introduced  into  the  work- 
shops, of  which  the  youngest  children  are  encouraged  to 
partake.  '  Very  many,'  say  the  police  officers,  '  frequent 
beer-shops,  where  they  play  at  dominoes,  bagatelle,  &c., 
for  money  or  drink.'  Early  intemperance  is  assigned  by 
the  medical  men  as  one  cause  of  the  great  mortality  of 
Sheffield.  '  Tliere  arc  beer-houses,'  says  the  Rev.  JMr. 
Parish,  '  attended  by  youths  exclusively,  for  the  men  will 
not  have  them  in  the  same  houses  with  themselves.     In 

12 


266  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

these  beor-houscs  tlic  youth  of  both  sexes  are  encouraged 
to  meet,  and  scenes  destructive  of  every  vestige  of  virtue 
or  morality  ensue.' 

"  945.  But  it  is  stated  by  all  classes  of  witnesses,  that 
'the  most  revolting  feature  of  juvenile  depravity  in  this 
town  is  early  contamination  from  the  association  of  the 
sexes;'  that  *  juvenile  prostitution  is  exceedingly  com- 
mon.' '  The  evidence/  says  the  Sub-commissioner, '  might 
have  been  doubled  which  attests  the  early  commencement 
of  sexual  and  promiscuous  intercourse  among  boys  and 
girls.' 

"953.  Sedoley. — At  Sedgley  and  the  neighboring 
villages,  the  number  of  girls  employed  in  nail-making 
considerably  exceeds  that  of  the  boys.  Of  these  girls 
Ml',  llorne  reports — '  Their  appearance,  manners,  habits, 
and  moral  natures,  (so  far  as  the  word  moral  can  be  ap- 
plied to  them,)  are  in  accordance  with  their  half-civilized 
condition.  Constantly  associating  with  ignorant  and  de- 
praved adults  and  young  persons  of  the  opposite  sex,  they 
naturally  fall  into  all  their  ways ;  and  drink,  smoke, 
swear,  throw  off  all  restraint  in  word  and  act,  and  become 
as  bad  as  a  man.  The  heat  of  the  forge  and  the  hardness 
of  the  work  render  few  clothes  needful  in  winter;  and  in 
summer,  the  six  or  seven  individuals  who  are  crowded 
into  these  little  dens  find  the  heat  almost  suffocating.  The 
men  and  boys  are  usually  naked,  except  a  pair  of  trousers 
and  an  open  shirt,  though  very  often  they  have  no  shirt; 
and  the  women  and  girls  have  only  a  thin,  ragged  petti- 
coat, and  an  open  shirt  without  sleeves.' " 

Lace-Malcing. — In  this  occupation  it  is  proved,  by  un- 
questionable evidence,  that  it  is  customary  for  children  to 
begin  to  work  at  the  age  of  four,  five,  and  six  years ;  and 
instances  were  found  in  which  a  child  only  two  years  old 
was  set  to  work  by  the  side  of  its  mother.  The  work  is 
of  course  very  slight,  but  is  trying  to  the  eyes.  The 
Sub-commissioner,  after  detailing  a  case,  says — 


SLAVES    WITHOUT    MASTERS.  267 

"58.  In  tliis  case,  if  tbe  statement  of  the  mother  be 
correct,  one  of  her  children,  four  years  of  age,  works 
twelve  hours  a-day  with  oidy  an  interval  of  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  for  each  meal,  at  breakfast,  dinner,  and  tea,  and 
never  going;  out  to  play  :  and  two  more  of  her  children, 
one  six  and  the  other  eight  years  of  age,  work  in  summer 
from  G  a.  m.  till  dusk,  and  in  winter  from  seven  in  the 
morning  till  ten  at  night,  fifteen  hours. 

■"  59.  This  family  is  singular  only  in  the  children  be- 
ing set  to  work  at  the  ages  of  two  or  three.  It  is  com- 
mon in  this  district  for  children  to  commence  work  at  four, 
five,  and  six  ;  the  evidence  renders  this  fact  indubitable." 
— (Second  Report,  p.  10.) 

The  following  extracts  relate  to  the  hours  of  work  in 
the  lace  trade  : — 

''o3G.  In  the  Nottingham,  Leicester,  and  Derby  dis- 
tricts, partly  from  the  causes  just  assigned,  and  partly 
from  the  dissipated  habits  of  the  workmen,  '■  the  hours 
of  labor  are  so  extremely  irregular  that  it  is  impossible  to 
speak  of  them  with  exact  precision.'  The  hand-machines, 
especially  the  wide  machines,  are  usually  double-handed; 
some  very  large  ones  have  three  men  each  ;  the  men  work 
such  machines  by  '  spells  for  shifts.'  The  most  common 
time  is  sixteen,  eighteen,  and  occasionally  twenty  hours. 
'  However  long,'  adds  the  Sub-commissioner,  '  may  be  the 
hours  during  which  the  machines  are  propelled,  even  for 
the  whole  twenty -four,  either  by  hand  or  power,  thei'e  are 
scarcely  ever  two  complete  sets  of  threaders.' 

''341.  Mr.  William  Hinde,  aged  twenty-nine,  opera- 
tive— 'Among  the  small  masters,  who  have  each  one  or 
two  machines,  it  is  the  custom  for  one  set  of  children  to 
work  for  two  or  three  masters.  The  masters  often  live  a 
long  way  from  each  other;  children  hav^e  often  to  go  one 
or  two  miles.  They  are  always  wanted  when  the  machine 
comes  ofl^,  whatever  may  be  the  hour  of  the  day  or  night ; 
they  are  required  just  as  much  by  night  as  by  day,  unless 


268  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

the  inerr  will  accommodate  the  children,  which  is  very 
rarely  done,  es};eeially  when  trade  is  good.  When  there 
has  bei'ii  a  <i,()od  ])attcrn,  and  tlie  machine  in  constant  use, 
the  cliildrc'U  "have  .scarcely  a  bit  of  peace,"  they  have  no 
reguhir  time  for  meals,  "  no  time  for  nothing  ;  "  when  one 
machine  is  off,  another  is  on.  Was  himself  formerly  a 
threader,  and  then  a  winder.  Has  often  gone  at  six  in 
the  morning,  and  has  had  no  time  1o  get  any  thing  to  eat, 
except  a  mouthful  now  and  then,  till  three  or  four  in  the 
afternoon.  It  is  the  same  now,  when  trade  is  good.  The 
children  have  no  regular  time  for  meals;  they  have  their 
food  sont  to  them,  and  they  eat  when  they  can  ;  some 
have  nothing  but  a  bit  of  bread.  There  is  no  more  regu- 
lar time  for  sleeping  than  for  eating;  the  children  often 
lie  down  "  in  the  middle  of  the  shop  floor,  when  it  is 
warm."  Thinks  hundreds  have  been  sent  to  the  grave 
by  this  work.  It  is  enough  to  kill  the  children,  going- 
half  fed  and  clothed  to  work  in  the  night,  at  this  time  of 
the  year.  (The  thermometer  last  night  was  102.') — (Sec- 
ond Eeport,  pp.  5G-9.) 

Of  cour.se,  work  of  this  nature,  for  such  hours,  and  at 
such  an  early  age,  cannot  hut  be  followed  by  deplorable 
consequences  to  health  in  after  life,  as  well  as  to  moral 
character.  Accordingly  the  Commissioners  report. — (II, 
p.  100,  110,  181.) 

''598.  From  the  nature  of  their  occupation,  the  long 
and  irregular  hours  of  work,  the  freijuency  of  night-work, 
and  the  insufficient  time  allowed  for  meals — an  evil  of  the 
greatest  magnitude  in  the  case  of  growing  children — the 
constitution  is  frequently  seriously  impaired.  '  The  ma- 
jority of  the  children  whom  I  saw,'  says  the  Sub-commis- 
sioner, 'were  pale  and  unhealthy-looking,  and  several 
were  of  diminutive  stature.  The  health  and  sight  arc 
often  greatly  impaired,  especially  among  the  runners,  who 
occasionally  faint  while  at  work ;  indeed,  there  cannot  be 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  269 

an  occupation  wliieli  more  seriously  deteriorates  the  con- 
stitution. Sliort-sightedncss,  amaurosis,  distortion  of  the 
spine,  excessive  constitutional  debility,  indigestion,  and 
derangement  of  the  uterine  functions,  may  be  said  to  be 
almost  universal :  all  the  evidence  points  to  this  con- 
clusion.' 

'■'■  '■  In  the  town  of  Nottingham,'  says  Mr.  Grainger,  '  all 
parties,  clergy,  police,  manufacturers,  work-people,  and 
parents,  agree  that  the  present  mode  of  employing  chil- 
dren and  young  persons  as  threaders  and  winders,  is  a 
most  fertile  source  of  immorality.  There  can,  in  fact,  be 
but  few  states  more  immediately  leading  to  vice  and  prof- 
ligacy. Children  of  both  sexes  are  called  ovX  of  their 
parents'  houses  at  all  hours  of  the  night,  and,  as  it  is 
quite  uncertain  how  long  they  may  be  required,  whether 
for  two  hours  or  the  whole  night,  a  ready  and  unanswer- 
able excuse  for  staying  out  is  furnished. — (No.  138.) 

"  The  moral  condition  of  the  lace-makers  in  Northamp- 
tonshire, Oxfordshire,  Beds  and  Bucks,  is  stated  by  Ma- 
jor Burns  to  be  extremely  low,  and  prostitution  is  rife 
among  them,  from  their  scanty  earnings,  their  love  of 
finery,  and  the  almost  total  absence  of  earlv  moral  cul- 
ture."—(Keport  :   App.  Pt.  I,  p.  A.  12,  s.  101:.) 

M'dllaeri)  and  DressmaJcing . — The  portion  of  these  in- 
tructive  volumes  which  describes  the  condition  of  the 
young  women  employed  as  milliners  and  mantua-makers- 
in  our  great  cities,  and  especially  in  London,  is,  however, 
that  which  has  left  the  most  painful  impression  upon  our 
minds — not  only  because  the  work  of  these  unfortunate 
girls  is  of  all  the  most  severe  and  unremitting — nor  be- 
cause it  is  inflicted  exclusively  upon  the  weaker  sex,  and 
at  a  period  of  life  the  most  susceptible  of  injury  from 
overstrained  exertion — nor  yet  becaase  the  actual  conse- 
quences which  are  shown  to  ensue  in  thousands  of  cases 
are  so  peculiarly  deplorable — but  because  the  excess  of 


270  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

labor  (with  all  its  pernicious  and  fatal  results)  is  endured 
in  the  service,  and  inflicted  in  execution  of  the  orders,  of 
a  class  whose  own  exemption  from  toil  and  privation  should 
make  them  scrupulously  careful  not  to  increase,  cause- 
lessly or  selfishly,  the  toils  and  privations  of  their  less 
favored  fellow-creatures — a  class,  too,  many  of  whom 
have  been  conspicuously  loud  in  denouncing  the  cruelties 
of  far  more  venial  offenders,  and  in  cxpresssing  a  some- 
what clamorous  and  overacted  sympathy  with  sufferings 
■which  cannot  for  a  moment  be  compared  in  severity  with 
those  which  arc  every  day  inflicted  on  the  helpless  of 
their  own  sex,  in  ministering  to  their  own  factitious  and 
capricious  wants.  The  remark  may  appear  harsh,  but 
the  evidence  before  us  fully  warrants  it — that  probably  in 
no  occupation  whatever — not  in  the  printing  fields  of 
Lancashire — not  in  the  lace  trade  of  Nottingham — not  in 
the  collieries  of  Scotland — scarcely  in  the  workshops  of 
"\Mllenhall — most  assuredly  not  in  the  cotton  factories  of 
Manchester,  (which  a  few  years  ago  the  flishionablo  fair 
of  London  were  so  pathetic  in  lamenting) — can  any  in- 
stances of  cruelty  be  met  with  which  do  not  ''  whiten  in 
the  shade"  of  those  which  every  spring  and  autumn  sea- 
son sees  practiced — unre2:)robated,  and  till  now  nearly  un- 
knowns—in the  milUneri/  estahlisliments  of  the  meti'opolis. 
The  following  extracts  will  show  that  we  are  guilty  of 
no  exaggeration. — (II,  p.  114-122.) 

"G22.  It  is  estimated  that  there  are  in  London,  in  the 
millinery  and  dressmaking  business,  at  least  1500  em- 
ployers, and  that  the  number  of  young  people  engaged 
by  each  employer  varies  from  two  or  three  to  twenty-five 
or  thirty-five — the  average  in  each  establishment  being 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        271 

about  ten,  malcing  in  tha  whole  15,000  ;  but  this  does  not 
inchide  journcywomen  who  work  at  their  own  houses,  of 
whom  also  there  are  great  numbers. 

"  623.  In  some  of  what  are  considered  the  best  regu- 
lated establishments,  during  the  fashionable  season,  occu- 
pying about  four  months  in  the  year,  the  regular  hours  of 
work  are  fifteen,  but  on  emergencies,  which  frequently 
recur,  these  hours  extend  to  eighteen.  In  many  estab- 
lishments the  hours  of  work,  during  the  season,  are  un- 
limited, the  young  women  never  getting  more  than  six, 
often  not  more  than  four,  sometimes  only  three,  and  oc- 
casionally not  more  than  two  hours  for  rest  and  sleep  out 
of  the  twenty-four;  and  very  frequently  they  work  all 
night. 

"  G25.  Miss  O'Neil,  Welbeck  street,  an  employer,  says 
— 'In  the  spring  season  the  hours  of  work  are  unlimited. 
The  common  hours  are  from  six  a.  ra.  till  twelve  at  night 
— sometimes  from  four  a.  m.  till  twelve.  Has  herself 
often  worked  from  six  a.  m.  till  twelve  at  night  for  two  or 
three  months  together.  It  is  not  at  all  uncommon,  espe- 
cially in  the  dressmaking,  to  work  all  night ;  just  in  the 
'  <lrive  of  the  season,'  the  work  is  occasionally  continued 
all  night  three  times  a-week.  Has  worked  herself  twice 
in  the  week  all  night.  In  some  houses  which  profess  to 
study  the  health  of  their  young  people,  they  begin  at  four 
a.  m.  and  leave  off  at  eleven  p.  m.,  never  earlier.  Has 
heard  there  are  houses  in  London  which  work  on  Sundays. 

"  628.    Miss ,  manager — 'has  been  ten 

years  a  "first  hand,"  which  signifies  the  party  who  takes 
the  superintendence  of  the  business,  as  overlooker  of  the 
young  persons,  cutter-out  of  the  work,  &c.  The  common 
hours  of  business  are  from  eight  a.  m.  till  eleven  p.  m. 
in  the  winter ;  in  the  summer  from  six  or  half-past  six  a. 
m.  till  twelve  at  night.  During  the  fashionable  season, 
that  is  from  April  to  the  end  of  July,  it  frequently  hap- 
pens that  the  ordinary  hours  are  greatly  exceeded  :  if 
there  is  a  drawing-room,  or  grand  fete,  or  mourning 
to  be  made,  it  often  happens  that  the  work  goes  on 
for  twenty  hours  out  of  the  twenty-four,  occasionally  all 


272  CANNIBALS  ALL  ;   or>, 

night.  Every  season  in  at  least  half  the  houses  of  busi- 
ness, it  happens  that  the  young  persons  occasionally  work 
twenty  hours  out  of  the  twent3--four,  twice  or  thrice  a- 
week.  On  special  occasions,  such  as  drawing-rooms,  gen- 
eral mournings,  and  vei*y  frequently  wedding  orders,  it  is 
not  uncommon  to  work  all  night;  has  herself  worked 
twenty  hours  out  of  the  twenty-four  for  three  months  to- 
gether ;  at  that  time  she  was  suftering  from  illness,  and 
the  medical  attendant  remonstrated  against  the  treatment 
she  received.  Ho  wished  witness  to  remain  in  bed  at 
least  one  day  longer,  which  the  employer  objected  to,  re- 
quired her  to  get  up,  and  dismissed  the  surgeon.  It  fre- 
quently happeued  that  the  work  was  curried  on  till  seven 
o'clock  on  Sunday  morning.  If  any  particular  order  was 
to  be  executed,  as  mournings  or  weddings,  and  they  left 
off  on  Saturday  night  at  eleven,  they  worked  the  whole 
of  Sunday ;  thinks  this  happened  fifteen  times  in  the  two 
years.  In  consequence  of  working  so  late  on  Sunday 
morning,  or  all  that  day  occasionally,  could  very  rarely  go 
to  church ;  indeed  it  could  not  be  thought  of,  because 
they  generally  rested  in  bed.' 

"  Gol).  The  correctness  of  these  repi'esentations  is  con- 
firmed, among  others,  by  the  following  medical  witnesses  : 
— Sir  James  Clark,  Bart.,  Pliysician  to  the  Queen — 'I 
have  found  the  mode  of  life  of  these  poor  girls  sixch  as 
no  constitution  could  long  bear.  Worked  from  six  in  the 
morning  till  twelve  at  night,  with  the  exception  of  the 
short  intervals  allowed  for  their  meals,  in  close  rooms, 
and  passing  the  few  hours  allowed  for  rest  in  still  more 
close  and  crowded  apartments — a  mode  of  life  more  com- 
pletely calculated  to  destroy  human  health  could  scarcely 
be  contrived,  and  this  at  a  period  of  life  when  exerci.se  in 
the  open  air,  and  a  due  proportion  of  rest,  are  essential  to 
the  development  of  the  system.  Judging  from  what  I 
have  observed  and  heard,  I  scarcely  believed  that  the 
system  adopted  in  our  worst-regulated  manufactories  can 
be  so  destructive  of  health  as  the  life  of  the  young  dress- 
maker.' 

"  647.    '  The  protracted   labor  described  above/  says 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  273 

tlie  Sub-commissioner,  'is,  I  believe,  (juitc  unparalleled 
in  the  history  of  manufacturing  processes.  I  have  looked 
over  a  considerable  portion  of  the  lleport  of  the  Factory 
Commission,  and  there  is  nothing  in  the  accounts  of  the 
vrorst-conducted  factories  to  be  compared  -with  the  facts 
elicited  in  the  present  enquiry.  Gentlemen  who,  from 
their  official  situation,  were  well  qualified  to  judge,  have 
also  stated,  in  answer  to  my  cjuestions,  that  they  knew  of 
no  instance  in  which  the  hours  of  work  were  so  long  as 
those  above  stated.' 

''  063.  Of  the  general  treatment  and  condition  of 
these  young  people,  the  Sub-commissioner  reports : — 
'  The  evidence  of  all  parties  establishes  the  fact  that  there 
is  no  class  of  persons  in  this  country,  living  by  their  la- 
bor, whose  happiness,  health,  and  lives,  are  so  unscrupu- 
lously sacrificed  as  those  of  the  young  dressmakers.  It 
may  without  exaggeration  be  stated,  that,  in  proportion 
to  the  numbers  employed,  there  are  no  occupations,  with, 
one  or  two  questionable  exceptions,  such  as  needle-grind- 
ing, in  which  so  much  disease  is  produced  as  in  dressma- 
king, or  which  present  so  fearful  a  catalogue  of  distress- 
ing and  frequently  fatal  maladies.  It  is  a  serious  aggra- 
vation of  all  this  evil,  that  the  unkindness  of  the  employer 
very  frequently  causes  these  j'oung  persons,  when  they 
become  unwell,  to  conceal  their  illness  from  the  fear  of 
being  sent  out  of  the  house;  and  in  this  manner,  the  dis- 
ease often  becomes  increased  in  severity,  or  is  even  ren- 
dered incurable.  Some  of  the  principals  are  so  cruel  as 
to  object  to  the  young  women  obtaining  medical  assist- 
ance.''"—(No.  G26.) 


274  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

CHAPTER     XVIII. 

THE  LONDON  GLOBE  ON  WEST  INDIA  EMANCIPATION. 

We  find  tlic  following  frank  and  explicit  admis- 
sion in  the  Globe  of  lOtli  July,  1856: 

"  Our  own  AVcst  India  Islands  are  fast  relapsing  into 
primitive  savagcuess.  When  the  rich  lauds  of  Jamaica 
arc  being  yearly  abandoned,  and  when  in  Trinidad  and 
Guiana  cultivation  has  almost  ceased,  it  is  not  likely  that 
England  will  care  to  extend  her  sovereignty  further  over 
tropical  territory,  which  can  only  be  brought  into  use  by 
a  system  which  has  been  solemnly  condemned." 

Now,  let  us  rigidly  examine  and  ascertain  Avhat 
is  the  condemned  system,  what  the  approved  sys- 
tem, that  has  been  generally  adopted  in  its  stead, 
and  why  this  system  is  approved,  and  the  free  ne- 
gro system  condemned  as  a  failure. 

There  is  no  doubt  the  writer  alludes  to  the  sys- 
tem of  domestic  slavery,  in  the  general,  as  the  con- 
demned system ;  and  especially,  to  that  serfdom  or 
villienage  Avhich  lately  prevailed,  but  is  now  abol- 
ished throughout  Western  Europe.  In  asserting 
that  the  system  of  slavery  has  been  condemned, 
and  yet  admitting  West  India  emancipation  to  bo  a 
failure,  he  in  effect  maintains  that  the  liberation  of 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  275 

tlic  villiens  has  been  no  failure.  lie  means  that  it 
has  been  no  failurej.because  the  liberated  villiens  do 
work ;  aye,  just  twice  as  hard  and  as  long  as  their 
ancestors,  the  serfs.  He  means  it  is  no  failure,  be- 
cause they  not  only  work  harder  and  longer,  but 
■work  for  half  the  pay  or  allowance  of  their  servile 
ancestors.  He  means  it  is  no  failure,  because  the 
once  masters,  now  employers,  get  their  labor  for 
half  what  it  cost  to  support  them  as  slaves.  He 
means  it  is  no  failure,  because  free  labor  in  Eng- 
land is  more  plentiful  and  far  cheaper  than  slave 
labor  in  America.  He  means  it  is  no  failure,  be- 
cause the  employers,  besides  getting  cheaper  and 
more  abundant  labor,  are  relieved  of  all  the  cares 
and  anxieties  of  governing  and  providing  for  their 
laborers,  in  health  and  in  sickness,  in  old  age  and 
in  infancy.  In  fine,  he  means  it  is  no  failure,  be- 
cause the  laborers  of  England  are  not  half  so  free 
noAv  as  before  their  pretended  emancipation.  They 
have  lost  all  their  rights,  half  their  liberty  (for  they 
work  harder  than  before,)  and  their  former  masters 
have  been  relieved  of  all  their  legal  obligations  and 
responsibilities.  No — British  emancipation  has  not 
failed,  if  we  look  solely  to  the  selfish  interests  of 
the  property  class.  And  British  liberty,  we  shall 
show  in  another  chapter,  means  the  unlimited  right 
of  the  property  class  to  oppress  the  laboring  class, 
uncoupled  with  the  obligation  to  provide  for  them. 
But  this  writer  well  knew,  that  looking  to  the  effect 


276  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

of  emancipation  on  the  condition  of  the  laboring 
cla.ss  in  Enghind,  it  has  been  a  cruel  and  monstrous 
failure,  from  first  to  last.  They  are  almost  as  sav- 
age and  ignorant  as  West  India  negroes,  know  no- 
thinj?  of  the  Bible,  and  live  in  a  state  of  continued 
destitution,  hunger,  and  excessive  labor,  from  gene- 
ration to  generation — from  infancy  to  old  age. 

West  India  emancipation  was  a  blunder  of  swin- 
dling philanthropy.  People  were  told  that  the  ne- 
groes, after  emancipation,  would  work  harder,  work 
for  less,  and  be  more  of  slaves  than  before,  just  as 
had  happened  with  emancipated  English.  But 
philanthropy  "hath  bad  luck."  It  overlooked,  or 
forgot,  the  few  wants  and  indolent  habits  of  the 
ne""ro,  the  abundance  of  mountain  lands,  the  fertile 
soil,  the  volunteer  fruits  and  mild  climate  of  Ja- 
maica. The  negro  is  realhj  free,  and  luxuriates  in 
slotli,  ignorance  and  liberty,  as  none  but  a  negro 
can.  The  mistake  and  the  failure  consisted  in  set- 
ting him  really  free,  instead  of  nominally  so. 
Ilinc  ilho  lachrymre ! 

What  vile  hypocrisy  to  shed  crocodile  tears  over 
the  happy  negro,  and  boast  of  British  Liberty, 
which  is  daily  and  hourly  consuming,  by  poverty, 
and  cold,  and  foul  air  and  water,  and  downright 
starvation,  the  lives  of  ten  millions  of  your  white 
brethren  and  neighbors ! 

But  this  system,  wliich  carried  to  untimely  graves 
three  hundred  thousand  Irishmen  in  a  single  sea- 


SLAVES    WITHOUT    MASTERS.  277 

Bcn,lms  not  heen  condemned.     No;  it  is  profitable 
to  tlie  oppressors,  and  will  not  be  condemned. 

In  all  countries  where  a  few  own  the  property 
and  the  population  is  tolerably  dense,  laborers  re- 
lieved from  domestic  slavery  are  remitted  to  the 
exploitation  of  skill  and  capital,  which  renders 
them  less  free  and  worse  situated  in  all  respects 
after  emancipation  than  before.  To  prove  this 
great  truth,  is  the  chief  object  of  our  present  work. 
We  know  that  the  philosophy  of  the  subject  is  intri- 
cate and  complex,  and  that  we  have  the  preju- 
dices, fanaticism  and  prepossessions  of  a  world  to 
oppose  and  conquer.  We  therefore  indulge  in  fre- 
quent iteration,  and  adduce  numerous  proofs,  exam- 
ples and  illustrations. 


278  CANNIBALS   ALL;    Oil, 

CHAPTER    XIX. 

PROTECTION,   AND   CIIAIUTY,   TO   THE   WEAK. 

A  mere  verbal  formula  often  distinguishes  a  tru- 
ism from  a  paradox.  "It  is  tlic  duty  of  society  to 
protect  the  weak  ;  "  but  protection  cannot  be  effi- 
cient without  the  power  of  control;  therefore,  "It 
is  the  duty  of  society  to  enslave  tlio  ■weak."  And 
it  is  a  duty  which  no  organized  and  civilized  soci- 
ety ever  failed  to  perform.  Parents,  husbands, 
guardians,  teachers,  committees,  &c.,  are  but  mas- 
ters under  another  name,  wliose  duty  it  is  to  pro- 
tect the  weak,  and  whose  right  it  is  to  control  them. 
The  blacks  in  America  are  both  positively  and  re- 
latively weak.  Positively  so,  because  they  are  too 
improvident  to  lay  up  for  the  exigencies  of  sickness, 
of  the  seasons,  or  of  old  age.  Relatively  so,  be- 
cause they  are  wholly  unequal  to  the  whites  among 
whom  they  live,  in  the  war  of  the  Avits  and  free 
competition,  which  universal  liberty  begets,  and 
political  economy  encourages. 

In  old  countries  the  white  laborers  are  relatively 
weak,  because  all  property  is  closely  appropriated, 
and  the  capitalist  class  possess  the  means  of  unlim- 
ited oppression.  Everybody  admits  that  in  such 
countries  the  poor  need  protection.     But  there  can 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        279 

be  no  efficient  protection  Avithout  enslavement  of 
some  sort.  In  England,  it  has  often  been  remarked, 
that  all  the  legislation  for  the  poor  is  borrowed  from 
the  system  of  domestic  slavery. 

Public  and  private  charity  is  a  fund  created  by 
the  labor  of  the  industrious  poor,  and  too  often  be- 
stowed on  the  idle  or  improvident.  It  is  apt  to 
aggravate  the  evils  Avhich  it  intends  to  cure. 

Those  who  give  should  have  the  power  to  control, 
to  some  extent,  the  conduct  and  expenditure  of  the 
objects  of  their  charity.  Not  till  then  can  they  be 
sure  that  their  gifts  will  be  promotive  of  good.  But 
such  power  of  control  would  be  slavery. 

Can  abolitionists  solve  these  social  problems  ? 

Ambition  has  ever  been*  considered  the  most  no- 
ble of  human  failings.  It  is,  however,  no  failing, 
or  crime,  at  all.  Ambition  desires  power,  and  with- 
out power  there  can  be  no  safe,  prudent  and  active 
benevolence.  The  selfish,  the  indolent,  and  the 
timid,  are  without  ambition,  and  eschew  power,  be- 
cause of  the  trouble,  the  expenses,  and  the  respon- 
sibilities which  it  imposes.  The  actively  good  are 
always  ambitious,  and  desire  to  possess  power,  in 
order  that  they  may  control,  in  some  measure,  the 
conduct  of  those  whom  they  desire  to  benefit. 

The  best  thing  a  philanthropist  can  do,  is  to  buy 
slaves,  because  then  his  power  of  control  is  great- 
est— his  ability  to  do   practical  good,  most  perfect. 

We  take  this  occasion  to  correct  an   error  into 


280  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OR, 

"whicli  ^ve  had  fallen  as  to  Northern  character.  Be- 
nevolence, affection,  generosity,  and  philanthropy, 
are  equally  common  North  and  South ;  and  only 
differ  in  their  modes  of  manifestation.  We  are  one 
people. 

The  daily  and  hourly  exercise  of  these  qualities 
is  elicited  at  the  South,  because  it  is  safe,  prudent 
and  expedient  so  to  exercise  them.  The  reverse  is 
true  at  the  North:  yet,  "expel  Nature  and  she  "will 
return  again."  Man  is  social  and  philanthropic, 
and  his  affections,  dammed  out  in  one  direction, 
find  vent  and  gush  out  in  another.  The  people  of 
the  North  are  far  more  generous  and  munificent  in 
the  endowment  of  public  charities,  and  other  pub- 
lic institutions,  than  we«  This  correction  of  our 
error  does  not  affect  our  theories — if  it  be  true, 
that  you  can  only  safely  be  charitable  to  depend- 
ents whom  you  can  control.  But  if  it  did  or  does 
affect,  neutralize  and  subvert  them,  it  is  due  to 
truth, — and  if  we  advance  the  cause  of  trutli,  we 
are  ready  for  the  sacrifice  of  all  else. 

"Our  Trip  to  the  North"  excited  doubts  as  to 
our  estimate  of  Northern  character;  and  subse- 
quent observation,  reading  and  reflection,  have 
brought  us  to  the  conclusion,  which  we  now  Avith 
pleasure  avow.  AVe  would  rather  be  right  than 
consistent. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        281 


CHAPTER    XX. 

THE    FAMILY. 

All  modern  philosophy  converges  to  a  single 
point — the  overthrow  of  all  government,  the  substi- 
tution of  the  untrammelled  •'  Sovereignty  of  the  In- 
dividual," for  the  Sovereignty  of  Society,  and  the 
inauguration  of  anarchy.  First  domestic  slavery, 
next  religious  institutions,  then  separate  property, 
then  political  government,  and,  finally,  family  gov- 
ernment and  family  relations,  are  to  be  swept  away. 
This  is  the  distinctly  avowed  programme  of  all  able 
abolitionists  and  socialists;  and  towards  this  end 
the  doctrines  and  the  practices  of  the  weakest  and 
most  timid  among  them  tend.  Proudhon,  and  the 
French  socialists  generally,  avow  this  purpose  in 
France,  and  Stephen  Pearl  Andrews  re-echoes  it 
from  America.  The  more  numerous  and  timid  class 
are  represented  by  Mr.  Greeley  and  the  Tribune, 
who  would  not  "at  once  rush,"  like  French  revolu- 
tionists, "with  the  explosive  force  of  escapement, 
point  blank  to  the  bull's  eye  of  its  final  destiny," 
but  would  inaugurate  social  conditions,  that  would 
gradually  bring  about  that  result.  Mr.  Greeley 
does  not  propose  to  do  away  at  once  with  marriage, 
religion,  private  property,  political  government  and 


282  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

parental  authority,  but  adopts  the  philosophy  and 
the  practices  of  Fourier,  Avhich  promise  gradually 
to  purify  human  nature,  and  fit  it,  in  a  few  genera- 
tions, for  that  social  millenium,  into  "which  the 
bolder  and  more  consistent  Andrews  urges  society 
at  once  to  plunge. 

The  Christian  socialists  are  beautifully  and  ener- 
getically co-hihorating  with  the  infidel  socialists  and 
abolitionists  to  bring  about  this  millenium.  They 
also  are  divided  into  two  parties.  The  one  would 
Avait  upon  Providence — only  help  it  a  little,  like  Mr. 
Greeley — and  permit  our  poor  old  effete  world  to 
pass  out  of  existence  by  gentle  euthanasia.  The 
other  and  bolder  party,  feel  themselves  "called"  as 
special  instruments,  to  give  at  once  the  coup  de 
grace  to  the  old  world,  and  to  usher  in  the  new  gol- 
den age,  of  free  love  and  free  lands,  of  free  Avomen 
and  free  negroes,  of  free  children  and  free  men. 

We  like  the  Northern  socialist  theoretical  aboli- 
tionists— read  their  speeches,  essays,  lectures  and 
books,  because  they  agree  with  us,  that  their  own 
form  of  society  is  a  humbug  and  a  failure ;  and 
in  their  efforts,  speculations  and  schemes  to  re-or- 
ganize it,  afford  the  most  beautiful,  perfect  and 
complete  specimen  of  the  reductio  ad  absurdum. 
A  lecture  from  jNIr.  Andrews  on  No-government, 
an  Oneida  den  of  incest,  a  Greeley  phalanstery,  or 
a  New  York  free  love  saloon,  afford  equally  good 
instances  of  this  mode  of  demonstration  by  the  ab- 


SLAVES  WITUOUT  MASTERS.        283 

surdities  'whicli  thoy  exhibit,  and  equally  good 
proofs  of  tlie  naturalness  and  necessity  of  slavery, 
since  such  horrid  abuses  are  everywhere  the  ap- 
proved and  2-)racticed  outgrowth  of  free  society.  As 
all  our  thoughts,  arguments,  proofs  and  demonstra- 
tions are  suggested  by  or  borrowed  from  the  aboli- 
tionists, it  seems  to  us  we  ought  to  dedicate  to  them. 
The  Tribime  very  properly  remarked  that  our  So- 
ciology was  the  first  attempt  of  the  kind  at  the 
South.  It  ridiculed  our  ignorance,  too,  severely. 
It  should  have  recollected  that  were  there  no  sick- 
ness there  would  be  no  physicians.  We  assure  the 
Tribune,  we  are  quite  a  prodigy  in  these  matters 
for  a  Southern  man.  We  have  no  social  diseases, 
and  therefore  no  social  doctors  to  write  about  them 
or  cure  them.  Such  diseases  have  been  rare  ;  for 
Aristotle  complains  that  there  are  no  terms  to  ex- 
press the  relations  of  husband  and  wife,  or  parent 
and  child.  These  relations  have  worked  so 
smoothly  in  slave  society  to  this  day,  that  we 
in  writing  have  felt  the  same  want  of  language  of 
which  Aristotle,  more  than  two  thousand  years  ago, 
complained.  You  should  invent  such  terms  at  the 
North,  if  it  be  true,  as  Mr.  Andrews  states  in 
italics,  that  there  are  ten  fugitives  from  Northern 
matrimony  to  one  from  Southern  slavery — from 
which  he  seems  to  infer  very  logically,  that  the  ne- 
cessity of  abolishing  the  family  at  the  North,  is  ten 
times  as  great  as  that  for  abolishing  slavery  at  the 


284  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

South.  lie  and  you  arc  experts,  and  we  know  it  is 
presumptuous  in  us  to  dispute  wliat  you  say  about 
your  own  society.  StUl  we  are  dead  against  your 
phalansteries  and  his  love  saloons.  Gentlemen  and 
scholars,  generally  at  the  South,  -would  as  soon  be 
caught  studying  or  practicing  the  black  art,  as  in 
reading  Owen  or  Fourier,  or  in  building  phalanste- 
ries. For  ourselves,  like  the  Bastard  in  King  John, 
we  learn  these  things,  "not  to  deceive,  but  to  avoid 
deceit."  AYe  have  whole  files  of  infidel  and  aboli- 
tion papers,  like  the  Tribune,  the  Liberator  and 
Investigator.  Fanny  Wright,  the  Devil's  Pulpit 
and  the  Devil's  Parson,  Tom  Paine,  Owen,  Voltaire, 
et  id  genus  omne,  are  our  daily  companions.  Good 
people  give  our  office  a  wide  berth  as  tliey  pass  it, 
and  even  the  hens  who  loiter  about  it,  have  caught 
the  infection  of  Woman's  Rights,  for  we  saw  but  a 
few  days  ago  a  Shanghai  cock  under  its  eaves 
hoverino;  a  brood  of  twenty  chickens,  whilstmadam 
hen  was  strutting  about  in  as  large  a  liberty  as 
any  Bloomer  or  wise  woman  of  the  North. 

Love  and  veneration  for  the  family  is  Avith  us  not 
only  a  principle,  but  probably  a  prejudice  and  a 
weakness.  We  were  never  two  weeks  at  a  time 
from  under  the  family  roof,  until  we  had  passed 
middle  life,  and  now  that  our  years  almost  number 
half  a  century,  we  have  never  been  from  home  for 
an  interval  of  two  months.  And  our  historical 
reading,  as  well  as  our  habits  of  life,  may  have  un- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        285 

fitted  US  to  appreciate  the  communist  and  fusion 
theories  of  Fanny  Wright,  Owen  and  ISIr.  Greely. 
In  attempting  to  vindicate  and  justify  the  ways 
of  God  and  Nature,  against  the  progressiveness  of 
Black  Republicanism  in  America,  and  E,ed  Repub- 
licanism in  Europe,  we  would  forewarn  the  reader 
that  we  are  a  prejudiced  witness.  We  are  the  en- 
thusiastic admirer  of  the  social  relations  exhibited 
in  the  histories  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob. 
The  social  relations  established  in  Deuteronomy, 
and  25th  chapter  Leviticus,  and  as  practiced  by 
the  Jews  to  tliis  day,  elicit  our  unfeigned  admira- 
tion and  approval.  Moses  is  with  us  the  Prince  of 
Legislators,  and  the  twenty-fifth  Leviticus  the  best 
of  political  platforms.  The  purity  of  the  family 
seems  to  be  his  paramount  object. 

Homer,  too,  especially  in  his  Odyssey,  charms  and 
enchains  us  with  his  beautiful  descriptions  of  family 
felicity  and  family  purity.  As  conquest  and  com- 
merce intro<luced  wealth  and  corrupted  morals  and 
manners,  the  family  was  corrupted  and  disrupted, 
as  it  is  now,  at  the  most  commercial  points  in  the 
North.  But  we  have  only  to  pass  over  to  Italy, 
and  there,  from  the  earliest  days  of  tradition  until 
the  extinction  of  liberty,  began  by  Sylla  and  Ma- 
rius,  and  ended  by  Augustus,  we  find  the  family  a 
pure,  a  holy  and  sacred  thing.  From  that  era  till 
slavery  arose  in  the  South,  the  family  never  re- 
sumed its  dignity  and  importance.     Feudalism  did 


28G  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR. 

sometliing  to  correct  the  loose  morality  of  the  Augus- 
tan Age,  hut  it  adopted  its  colonial  slavery,  relaxed 
family  tics,  and  never  drew  together  in  sufficiently 
close  connection  and  subordination,  the  materials 
which  nature  dictates  should  form  the  human  hive 
or  social  circle. 

Aristotle  understood  this  subject  thoroughly; 
and  it  seems  to  have  been  generally  so  well  com- 
prehended in  his  day,  that  he  takes  little  trouble 
to  explain  and  expound  it.  lie  commences  his 
treatise  on  Politics  and  Economics  with  the  family, 
and  discourses  first  of  the  slaves  as  a  part  of  the 
family.  He  assumes  that  social  life  is  as  natural 
to  man  as  to  bees  and  herds ;  and  that  the  family, 
including  husband,  wife,  children,  and  slaves,  is  the 
first  and  most  natural  development  of  that  social 
nature.  As  States  arc  composed  of  families,  and 
as  a  sound  and  healthy  whole  cannot  be  formed  of 
rotten  parts,  he  devotes  much  of  his  treatise  to 
family  education  and  government.  Would  that 
modern  statesmen,  philosophers  and  politicians, 
"would  become  practical  like  Aristotle,  and  not  at- 
tempt to  build  social  and  political  edifices,  until 
they  were  sure  of  the  soundness  of  the  materials 
of  which  they  would  construct  them.  As  all  hu- 
man beings  live  for  the  greatest  part  of  their  lives 
in  families,  it  is  all  important  that  they  should  look 
to  the  wise  arrangement  of  this  old  and  universal 
institution. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        287 

We  "wish  to  prove  tliat  the  groat  movement  in 
society,  kno-\A'n  under  various  names,  as  Commu- 
nism, Socialism,  Abohtionism,  Red  Republicanism 
and  Black  Republicanism,  has  one  common  object : 
the  breaking  up  of  all  law  and  government,  and 
the  inauguration  of  anarchy,  and  that  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  family  is  one  of  the  means  in  -which 
they  all  concur  to  attain  a  common  end.  We  shall 
quote  only  from  Stephen  Pearle  Andrews,  because 
he  is  by  far  the  ablest  and  best  informed  of  Ame- 
rican Socialists  and  Reformers,  and  because  he 
cites  facts  and  authorities  to  show  that  he  presents 
truly  the  current  thought  and  the  general  inten- 
tion. Mr.  Andrews  is  a  Massachusetts  gentleman, 
who  has  lived  at  the  South.  He  has  been  an  Abo- 
lition Lecturer.  He  is  the  disciple  of  Warren,  who 
is  the  disciple  of  Owen  of  Lanark  and  New  Har- 
mony. Owen  and  Warren  are  Socrates  and  Plato, 
and  he  is  the  Great  Stygarite,  as  far  surpassing 
them,  as  Aristotle  surpassed  Socrates  and  Plato. 
But  it  is  not  merely  his  theories  on  which  we  rely ; 
he  cites  historical  facts  that  show  that  the  tendency 
and  terminus  of  all  abolition  is  to  the  sovereignty 
of  the  individual,  the  breaking  up  of  families,  and 
no-government.  He  delivered  a  series  of  lectures 
to  the  elite  of  New  York  on  this  subject,  which 
met  with  approbation,  and  from  which  we  shall 
quote.  He  established,  or  aided  to  establish,  Free 
Love  Villages,  and  headed  a  Free  Love  Saloon  in 


288  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

the  city  of  New  York,  patronized  and  approved  by 
the  "  Higher  chisses."  He  is  indubitably^  the 
philosopher  and  true  exponent  of  Northern  Aboli- 
tionism. With  this  assertion,  which  none  who  read 
his  Science  of  Society  we  think  will  deny,  we  pro- 
ceed to  quote  from  his  able  and  beautiful  lectures, 
embodied  in  a  publication  entitled  "  Science  of 
Society."  Our  first  quotation  is  from  his  first  lec- 
ture and  the  first  chapter  of  his  work : 

Ever}'  aire  is  a  reuuu'kublc  one,  no  doubt,  for  tliosc 
who  live  in  it.  When  immobility  reigns  most  in  human 
affairs,  there  is  still  enough  of  movement  to  fix  the  at- 
tention, and  even  to  excite  the  wonder  of  those  who  are 
immediately  in  proximity  with  it.  This  natural  bias  in 
favor  of  the  period  with  which  we  have  most  to- do,  is  by 
no  means  sufficient,  however,  to  account  for  the  growing 
conviction,  on  all  minds,  that  the  present  epoch  is  a 
marked  transition  from  an  old  to  a  new  order  of  things. 
The  scattered  rays  of  the  gray  dawn  of  the  new  era  date 
back,  indeed,  beyond  the  lifetime  of  the  present  genera- 
tion. The  first  streak  of  light  that  streamed  througli 
the  dense  darkness  of  the  old  regime  was  the  declaration 
by  ^Martin  Luther  of  the  right  of  private  judgment  in 
matters  of  conscience.  The  next,  which  shed  terror  upon 
the  old  world,  as  a  new  portent  of  impending  revolutions, 
was  the  denial,  by  Hampden,  Sidney,  Cromwell,  and 
others,  of  the  divine  right  of  kings,  and  the  assertion  of 
inherent  political  rights  in  the  people  themselves.  This 
was  followed  by  the  American  Declaration  of  Independ- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         289 

cnce,  the  establishment  of"  a  powerful  Democratic  Repub- 
lic in  the  western  world  upon  the  basis  of  that  principle, 
followed  by  the  French  Ilevolution,  the  Reign  of  Terror, 
the  Re-action,  and  the  apparent  death  in  Europe  of  the 
Democratic  idea.  Finally,  in  our  day,  comes  the  red 
glare  of  French  Socialism,  at  which  the  world  is  still 
gazing  with  uucertainty  whether  it  be  some  lurid  and 
meteoric  omen  of  fearful  events,  or  whether  it  be  not  the 
actual  rising  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness,  with  healing 
in  His  wings ;  for  there  arc  those  who  profoundly  and 
religiously  believe  that  the  solution  of  the  social  prob- 
lem will  be  the  virtual  descent  of  the  New  Jerusa- 
lem— the  installation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven  upon 
earth. 

First  in  the  religious,  then  in  the  i^olitical,  and  finally 
in  the  social  relations  of  men,  new  doctrines  have  thus 
been  broached,  which  are  full  of  promise  to  the  hopeful, 
and  full  of  alarm  and  dismay  to  the  timid  and  conserva- 
tive. This  distinction  marks  the  broadest  division  in  the 
ranks  of  mankind.  In  church,  and  state,  and  social  life, 
the  real  parties  are  the  I'rogressionists  and  the  Retro- 
gressionists — those  whose  most  brilliant  imaginings  are 
linked  with  the  future,  and  those  whose  sweetest  remem- 
brances bind  them  in  tender  associations  to  the  past. 
Catholic  and  Protestant,  Whig  and  Democrat,  Anti- 
Socialist  and  Socialist,  are  terms  which,  in  their  origin, 
correspond  to  this  generic  division ;  but  no  sooner  does  a 
new  classification  take  place  than  the  parties  thus  formed 
are  again  subdivided,  on  either  hand,  by  the  ever-per- 
meating tendency,  on  the  one  side  toward  freedom,  eman- 

13 


290  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

cipation,  and  progress,  and  toward  law,  and  order,  and 
immobility  on  the  other. 

Hitlacrto  tbe  struggle  between  conservatism  and  pro- 
gress has  seemed  doubtful.  Victory  has  kissed  the  ban- 
ner, alternately,  of  cither  host.  At  length  the  serried 
ranks  of  conservatism  falter.  Reform,  so  called,  is  be- 
coming confessedly  more  potent  than  its  antagonist.  The 
admission  is  reluctantly  forced  from  pallid  lips  that  revo- 
lutions— political,  social  and  religious — constitute  the 
programme  of  the  coming  age.  Reform,  so  called,  for 
•weal  or  woe,  but  yet  Reform,  must  rule  the  hour.  The 
older  constitutions  of  society  have  outlived  their  day. 
No  truth  commends  itself  more  universally  to  the  minds 
of  men  now,  than  that  thus  set  forth  by  Carlyle  :  ''There 
must  be  a  new  world  if  there  is  to  be  any  world  at  all. 
That  human  things  in  our  Europe  can  ever  return  to  the 
old  sorry  routine,  and  proceed  with  any  steadiness  or 
continuance  there — this  small  hope  is  not  now  a  tenable 
one.  These  days  of  universal  death  must  be  days  of 
universal  new  birth,  if  the  ruin  is  not  to  be  total  and 
final !  It  is  a  time  to  make  the  dullest  man  consider, 
and  ask  himself.  Whence  he  came  ?  Whither  he  is 
bound  y  A  veritable  '  New  Era/  to  the  foolish  as  well 
as  to  the  wise."  Nor  is  this  state  of  things  confiaed  to 
Europe.  The  agitations  in  America  may  be  more  peace- 
ful, but  they  are  not  less  profound.  The  foundations  of 
old  beliefs  and  habits  of  thought  are  breaking  up.  The 
old  guarantees  of  order  are  fast  falling  away.  A  verita- 
ble "  new  era"  with  us,  too,  is  alike  impending  and 
inevitable. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  291 

So  much  to  show  the  width  and  scope  of  the  so- 
cial revolution  that  is  contemplated  as  well  by  de- 
structives as  conservatives  ;  for  Mr.  Carljle  is  like 
ourselves,  and  thinks  society  needs  more  govern- 
ment, scrcAving  up,  instead  of  relaxing.  He,  too,  is 
a  socialist,  but  a  conservative  socialist.  He  asserts, 
like  Mr.  Andrews,  that  society  has  failed,  but  pro- 
poses a  different  mode  of  reconstruction.  At  the 
very  moment  we  in  America  were  announcing  the 
Failure  of  Free  Society,  he  in  Europe  proclaimed 
the  '  Latter  Day'  of  that  Society.  It  was  but  a  dif- 
ferent mode  of  expressing  the  same  thought.  Now 
we  v>ill  show  from  this  same  lecture  of  Mr.  An- 
drews, that  the  annihilation  of  the  Family  is  part 
of  the  programme  of  Abolition.  He  says,  page 
31,  in  this  same  lecture: 

Every  variety  of  conscience,  and  every  variety  of  de- 
portment iu  reference  to  this  precise  subject  of  love  is 
already  tolerated  among  us.  At  one  extreme  of  the 
scale  stand  the  Shakers,  who  abjure  the  connection  of 
the  sexes  altogether.  At  the  other  extremity  stands  the 
association  of  Perfectionists,  at  OneiJa,  who  hold  and 
practice,  and  justify  by  the  Scriptures,  as  a  religious 
dogma,  what  they  denominate  complex  marriage,  or  the 
freedom  of  love.  AYe  have,  in  this  State,  stringent  laws 
against  adultery  and  fornication;  but  laws  of  that  sort 
fall  powerless,  in  xVmerica,  before  the  all-pervading  senti- 
ment of  Protestantism,  which  vindicates  the  freedom  of 
conscience  to  all  persons  and  in  all  things,  provided  the 


292  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

consequences  fiill  upon  the  parties  themselves.  Hence 
the  Oneida  Perf'ectidiiists  live  undisturbed  and  respected, 
in  the  heart  of  the  State  of  New  York,  and  iu  the  face 
of  the  world ;  and  the  civil  government,  true  to  the  De- 
mocratic principle,  which  is  only  the  same  principle  in 
another  application,  is  little  anxious  to  interfere  with  this 
breach  of  its  own  ordinances,  so  long  as  they  cast  none  of 
the  consequences  of  their  conduct  upon  those  who  do  not 
consent  to  bear  them. 

And,  page  33,  he  says : 

In  general,  however,  (lovernment  still  interferes  with 
the  marriage  and  parental  relations.  Democracy  in 
America  has  always  proceeded  with  due  reference  to 
the  prudential  motto,  fcstina  Icntc.  In  France,  at  the 
time  of  the  fii"st  lievolution,  Democracy  rushed  with  the 
explosive  force  of  escapement  from  centuries  of  compres- 
sion, point  blank  to  the  bull's  eyo  of  its  iinal  destiny, 
from  which  it  recoiled  with  such  force  that  the  stupid 
world  has  dreamed,  for  half  a  century,  that  the  vital 
principle  of  ])emocracy  was  dead.  As  a  logical  sequence 
from  Democratic  principle,  the  legal  obligation  of  mar- 
riage was  sundered,  and  the  Sovereignty  of  the  Indivi- 
dual above  the  institution  was  vindicated. 

Page  42: 

I  must  apologize  as  well  for  the  incompleteness  as  for 
the  apparent  dogmatism  of  any  brief  exposition  of  this 
subject.  I  assert  that  it  is  not  only  possible  and  ration- 
ally probable,  but  that  it  is  rigidly  consequential  upon 
the  right  understanding  of  the  constitutiou  of  man,  that 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        293 

all  government,  in  the  sense  of  involuntary  restraint 
upon  the  Individual,  or  substantially  all,  must  finally 
cease,  and  along  with  it  the  whole  complicated  parapher- 
nalia and  trumpery  of  Kings,  Emperors,  Presidents, 
Legislatures,  and  Judiciary.  I  assert  that  the  indicia  of 
this  result  abound  in  existing  society,  and  that  it  is  the 
instinctive  or  intelligent  perception  of  that  fact  by  those 
who  have  not  bargained  for  so  much,  which  gives  origin 
and  vital  energy  to  the  re-action  in  church  and  state  and 
social  life.  I  assert  that  the  distance  is  less  to-day  for- 
ward from  the  theory  and  practice  of  Government  as  it 
is  in  these  United  States,  to  the  total  abrogation  of  all 
Government  above  that  of  the  Individual,  than  it  is 
backward  to  the  theory  and  practice  of  Government  as 
Government  now  is  in  the  despotic  countries  of  the  old 
world. 

The  reader  will  thus  see  that  Abolition  contem- 
plates the  total  overthrow  of  the  Family  and  all 
other  existing  social,  moral,  religious  and  govern- 
mental institutions.  We  quote  Mr.  Andrews  be- 
cause he  is  'longo  intervallo,'  the  ablest  Abolition 
Philosopher.  Many  volumes  would  be  needed  to 
display  and  expose  the  opinions  of  all  the  vota- 
ries of  the  New  Philosophy.  But  every  man  who 
sets  to  work  honestly  to  discover  truth,  will  find  at 
every  step,  that  we  have  neither  distorted  nor  exag- 
gerated. The  Family  is  threatened,  and  all  men 
North  or  South  who  love  and  revere  it,  should,  be 
up  and  a  doing. 


294  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XXI. 

NEGRO  SLAVERY. 

Until  tlie  lands  of  America  arc  appropriated  by 
a  few,  population  becomes  dense,  competition 
among  laborers  active,  employment  imcertain,  and 
wages  low,  the  personal  liberty  of  all  the  whites 
will  continue  to  be  a  blessing.  We  have  vast  un- 
settled territories ;  population  may  cease  to  in- 
crease, or  increase  slowly,  as  in  most  countries, 
and  many  centuries  may  elapse  before  the  question 
will  be  practically  suggested,  whether  slavery  to 
capital  be  preferable  to  slavery  to  human  masters. 
But  the  negro  has  neither  energy  nor  enterprise, 
and,  even  in  our  sparser  population,  finds,  with  his 
improvident  habits,  that  his  liberty  is  a  curse  to 
himself,  and  a  greater  curse  to  the  society  around 
him.  These  considerations,  and  others  equally  ob- 
vious, have  induced  the  South  to  attempt  to  defend 
negro  slavery  as  an  exceptional  institution,  admit- 
ting, nay  asserting,  that  slavery,  in  the  general  or 
in  the  abstract,  is  morally  wrong,  and  against  com- 
mon right.  With  singular  inconsistency,  after 
making  this  admission,  which  admits  away  the 
authority  of  the   Bible,  of  profane   history,  and  of 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  295 

the  almost  universal  practice  of  mankind — they 
turn  round  and  attempt  to  bolster  up  the  cause  of 
negro  slavery  by  these  very  exploded  authorities. 
If  -we  mean  not  to  repudiate  all  divine,  and  almost 
all  human  authority  in  favor  of  slavery,  we  must 
vindicate  that  institution  in  the  abstract. 

To  insist  that  a  status  of  society,  which  has  been 
almost  universal,  and  which  is  expressly  and  con- 
tinually justified  by  Holy  Writ,  is  its  natural,  nor- 
mal, and  necessary  status,  under  the  ordinary  cir- 
cumstances, is  on  its  face  a  plausible  and  probable 
proposition.  To  insist  on  less,  is  to  yield  our 
cause,  and  to  give  up  our  religion ;  for  if  white 
slavery  be  morally  wrong,  be  a  violation  of  natural 
rights,  the  Bible  cannot  be  true.  Human  and  di- 
vine authority  do  seem  in  the  general  to  concur, 
in  establishing  the  expediency  of  having  masters 
and  slaves  of  diiferent  races.  The  nominal  servi- 
tude of  the  Jews  to  each  other,  in  its  temporary 
character,  and  no  doubt  in  its  mild  character,  more 
nearly  resembled  our  wardship  and  apprenticeship, 
than  ordinary  domestic  slavery.  In  very  many 
nations  of  antiquity,  and  in  some  of  modern  times, 
tlie  law  has  permitted  the  native  citizens  to  become 
slaves  to  each  other.  But  few  take  advantage  of 
sucli  laws ;  and  the  infrequency  of  the  practice, 
establishes  the  general  truth  that  master  and  slave 
should  be  of  difierent  national  descent.  In  some 
respects,  the  wider  the  difference  the  better,  as  the 


296  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

slave  will  feel  less  mortified  by  his  position.  In 
other  respects,  it  may  be  that  too  wide  a  difference 
hardens  the  hearts  and  brutalizes  the  feelings  of 
both  master  and  slave.  The  civilized  man  hates 
the  savage,  and  the  savage  returns  the  hatred  with 
interest.  Hence,  AVest  India  slavery,  of  newly 
caught  negroes,  is  not  a  very  humane,  affectionate 
or  civilizing  institution,  Virginia  negroes  have  be- 
come moral  and  intelligent.  They  love  their  mas- 
ter and  his  family,  and  the  attachment  is  recipro- 
cated. Still,  we  like  the  idle,  but  intelligent  house- 
servants,  better  than  the  hard-used,  but  stupid  out- 
hands;  and  we  like  the  mulatto  better  than  the 
negro ;  yet  the  negro  is  generally  more  affectionate, 
contented  and  faithful. 

The  world  at  large  looks  on  negro  slavery  as 
much  the  worst  form  of  slavery;  because  it  is  only 
acquainted  with  "West  India  slavery.  Abolition 
never  arose  till  negro  slavery  Avas  instituted  ;  and 
now  abolition  is  only  directed  against  negro  slavery. 
There  is  no  philanthropic  crusade  attempting  to 
set  free  the  white  slaves  of  Eastern  Europe  and  of 
Asia.  The  world,  then,  is  prepared  for  the  defence 
of  slavery  in  the  abstract — it  is  prejudiced  only 
against  negro  slavery.  These  prejudices  were  in 
their  oriffin  well  founded.  The  Slave  Trade,  the 
horrors  of  the  Middle  Passage,  and  West  India 
slavery,  were  enough  to  rouse  the  most  torpid  phi- 
lanthro})y. 


SLAVES  WITnOUT  MASTERS.        297 

But  our  Southern  slavery  has  become  a  benign 
and  protective  institution,  and  our  negroes  are  con- 
fessedly better  oft'  than  any  free  laboring  popula- 
tion in  the  world. 

How  can  we  contend  that  white  slavery  is  wrong, 
whilst  all  the  great  body  of  free  laborers  are  starv- 
ing; and  slaves,  white  or  black,  throughout  the 
world,  are  enjoying  comfort? 

We  write  in  the  cause  of  Truth  and  Humanity, 
and  will  not  play  the  advocate  for  master  or  for 
slave. 

The  aversion  to  negroes,  the  antipathy  of  race, 
is  much  greater  at  the  North  than  at  the  South ; 
and  it  is  very  probable  that  this  antipathy  to  the 
person  of  the  negro,  is  confounded  with  or  gene- 
rates hatred  of  the  institution  vrith  which  he  is 
usually  connected.  Hatred  to  slavery  is  very  gene- 
rally little  more  than  hatred  of  negroes. 

There  is  one  strons;  aro;ument  in  favor  of  neo;ro 
slavery  over  all  other  slavery :  that  he,  being  unfit- 
ted for  the  mechanic  arts,  for  trade,  and  all  skillful 
pursuits,  leaves  those  pursuits  to  be  carried  on  by 
the  whites ;  and  does  not  bring  all  industry  into 
disrepute,  as  in  Greece  and  Rome,  where  the  slaves 
were  not  only  the  artists  and  mechanics,  but  also 
the  merchants. 

Whilst,  as  a  general  and  abstract  question,  negro 
slavery  has  no  other  claims  over  other  forms  of 
slavery,  except  that  from  inferiority,  or  rather  pe- 


298  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

culiarity,  of  race,  almost  all  negroes  require  mas- 
ters, "whilst  only  the  children,  the  women,  the  very 
weak,  poor,  and  ignorant,  &c.,  among  the  whites, 
need  some  protective  and  governing  relation  of  this 
kind;  yet  as  a  subject  of  temporary,  hut  world- 
wide importance,  negro  slavery  has  become  the 
most  necessary  of  all  human  institutions. 

The  African  slave  trade  to  America  commenced 
three  centuries  and  a  half  since.  By  the  time  of 
the  American  Revolution,  the  supply  of  slaves  had 
exceeded  the  demand  for  slave  labor,  and  the  slave- 
holders, to  get  rid  of  a  burden,  and  to  prevent  the 
increase  of  a  nuisance,  became  violent  opponents  of 
the  slave  trade,  and  many  of  them  abolitionists. 
New  England,  Bristol,  and  Liverpool,  who  reaped 
the  profits  of  the  trade,  without  suffering  from  the 
nuisance,  stood  out  for  a  long  time  against  its  aboli- 
tion. Finally,  laws  and  treaties  were  made,  and 
fleets  fitted  out  to  abolish  it;  and  after  a  while,  the 
slaves  of  most  of  South  America,  of  the  West  In- 
dies, and  of  Mexico  were  liberated.  In  the  mean- 
time, cotton,  rice,  sugar,  coffee,  tobacco,  and  other 
products  of  slave  labor,  came  into  universal  use  as 
necessaries  of  life.  The  population  of  Western 
Europe,  sustained  and  stimulated  by  those  products, 
was  trebled,  and  that  of  the  North  increased  ten- 
fold. The  products  of  slave  labor  became  scarce 
and  dear,  and  famines  frequent.  Now,  it  is  obvious, 
that  to  emancipate   all  the    negroes  Avould    be  to 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  299 

starve  Western  Europe  and  our  North.  Not  to  ex- 
tend and  increase  negro  slavery,  pari  jxissu,  "with 
the  extension  and  multiplication  of  free  society,  will 
produce  much  suffering.  If  all  South  America, 
Mexico,  the  Y^est  Indies,  and  our  Union  south  of 
Mason  and  Dixon's  line,  of  the  Ohio  and  Missouri, 
were  slavcholding,  slave  products  would  he  abun- 
dant and  cheap  in  free  society ;  and  their  market 
for  their  merchandise,  manufactures,  commerce, 
&c.,  illimitable.  Free  white  laborers  might  live  in 
comfort  and  luxury  on  light  work,  but  for  the  ex- 
acting and  greedy  landlords,  bosses  and  other  capi- 
talists. 

We  must  confess,  that  overstock  the  world  as 
you  will  with  comforts  and  with  luxuries,  we  do  not 
see  how  to  make  capital  relax  its  monopoly — how  to 
do  aught  but  tantalize  the  hireling.  Capital,  irre- 
sponsible capital,  begets,  and  ever  will  beget,  the 
"  immedicabile  vulnus "  of  so-called  Free  Society. 
It  invades  every  recess  of  domestic  life,  infects  its 
food,  its  clothing,  its  drink,  its  very  atmosphere, 
and  pursues  the  hireling,  from  the  hovel  to  the 
poor-house,  the  prison  and  the  grave.  Do  what  he 
will,  go  where  he  will,  capital  jDursues  and  perse- 
cutes him.     "  Hi?eret  lateri  lethalis  arundo!" 

Capital  supports  and  protects  the  domestic  slave; 
taxes,  oppresses  and  persecutes  the  free  laborer. 


300  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

CIIAPTER    XXTI. 

Tin:    STRENGTH    OF    WEAKNESS. 

An  unexplored  moral  world  stretclies  out  before 
ns,  and  invites  our  investigation ;  but  neither  our 
time,  our  abilities,  nor  the  character  of  our  work, 
"vvill  permit  us  to  do  more  than  glance  at  its  love- 
liness. 

It  is  pleasing,  however,  to  turn  from  the  world 
of  political  economy,  in  which  "  might  makes 
right,"  and  strength  of  mind  and  of  body  are  cm- 
ployed  to  oppress  and  exact  from  the  weak,  to  that 
other  and  better,  and  far  more  numerous  Avorld,  in 
which  weakness  rules,  clad  in  the  armor  of  affection 
and  benevolence.  It  is  delightful  to  retire  from  the 
outer  world,  Avith  its  competitions,  rivalries,  envy- 
ings,  jealousies,  and  selfish  war  of  the  wits,  to  the 
bosom  of  the  family,  where  the  only  tyrant  is  the 
infant — the  greatest  slave  the  master  of  the  house- 
hold. You  feel  at  once  that  you  have  exchanged 
the  keen  air  of  selfishness,  for  the  mild  atmosphere 
of  benevolence.  Each  one  prefers  the  good  of 
others  to  his  own,  and  finds  most  happiness  in 
sacrificing  selfish  pleasures,  and  ministering  to 
others'  enjoyments.  The  wife,  the  husband,  the 
parent,  the   child,  the  son,  the  brother  and  the  s'.s- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        301 

ter,  usually  act  tOAvards  each  other  on  scriptural 
pi'inciplcs.  The  infant,  in  its  capricious  dominion 
over  mother,  father,  brothers  and  sisters,  exhibits, 
in  strongest  colors,  the  "strength  of  weakness," 
the  power  of  affection.  The  wife  and  daughters 
are  more  carefully  attended  by  the  father,  than  the 
sons,  because  they  are  weaker  and  elicit  more  of 
his  affection. 

The  dependent  exercise,  because  of  their  depend- 
ence, as  much  control  over  their  superiors,  in  most 
things,  as  those  superiors  exercise  over  them. 
Thus,  and  thus  only,  can  conditions  be  equalized. 
This  constitutes  practical  equality  of  rights,  en- 
forced not  by  human,  but  by  divine  law.  Our 
liearts  bleed  at  the  robbing  of  a  bird's  nest ;  and 
the  little  birds,  because  they  are  weak,  subdue  our 
strength  and  command  our  care.  We  love  and 
cherish  the  rose,  and  sympathize  with  the  lily,  which 
some  wanton  boy  has  bruised  and  broken.  Our 
faithful  dog  shares  our  affections,  and  we  will  risk 
our  lives  to  redress  injustice  done  him. 

Man  is  not  all  selfish.  "  Might  does  not  always 
make  right."  Within  the  family  circle,  the  law  of 
love  prevails,  not  that  of  selfishness. 

But,  besides  wife  and  children,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, dogs,  horses,  birds  and  flowers — slaves,  also, 
belong  to  the  family  circle.  Does  their  common 
humanity,  their  abject  weakness  and  dependence, 
their  great  value,  their  ministering  to  our  wants  in 


302  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

childhood,  manhood,  sickness  and  old  a2;e,  cut  them 
oft'  from  that  aiToction  -which  everything  else  in  the 
family  elicits?  No;  the  interests  of  master  and 
slave  are  bound  up  together,  and  each  in  his  appro- 
priate sphere  naturally  endeavors  to  promote  the 
happiness  of  the  other. 

The  humble  and  obedient  slave  exercises  more  or 
less  control  over  the  most  brutal  and  hard-hearted 
master.  It  is  an  invariable  law  of  nature,  that 
•weakness  and  dependence  are  elements  of  strength, 
and  generally  sufhciently  limit  that  universal  despot- 
ism, observable  throughout  human  and  animal  na- 
ture. The  moral  and  physical  world  is  but  a  series 
of  subordinations,  and  the  more  perfect  the  subor- 
dination, the  greater  the  harmony  and  the  happi- 
ness. Inferior  and  superior  act  and  re-act  on  each 
other  through  agencies  and  media  too  delicate  and 
subtle  for  human  apprehensions ;  yet,  looking  to 
usual  results,  man  should  be  willing  to  leave  to  God 
what  God  only  can  regulate.  Human  law  cannot 
beget  benevolence,  affection,  maternal  and  paternal 
love ;  nor  can  it  supply  their  places ;  but  it  may, 
by  breaking  up  the  ordinary  relations  of  human 
beings,  stop  and  disturb  the  current  of  these  finer 
feelings  of  our  nature.  It  may  abolish  slavery ;  but 
it  can  never  create  between  the  capitalist  and  the 
laborer,  between  the  employer  and  employed,  the 
kind  and  affectionate  relations  that  usually  exist 
between  master  and  slave. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        303 

CHAPTER    XXIII. 

1\I  0  N  E  Y  . 

From  the  days  of  Plato  and  Lycurgus  to  the  pre- 
sent times,  Social  Reformers  have  sought  to  restrict 
or  banish  the  use  of  money.  We  do  not  doubt  that  its 
moderate  use  is  essential  to  civilization  and  promo- 
tive of  human  happiness  and  well-being — and  we  en- 
tertain as  little  doubt,  that  its  excessive  use  is  the 
most  potent  of  all  causes  of  human  inequality  of  con- 
dition, of  excessive  wealth  and  luxury  with  the  few, 
and  of  great  destitution  and  suffering  with  the 
many,  and  of  general  effeminacy  and  corruption  of 
morals.  Money  is  the  great  weapon  in  free,  equal, 
and  competitive  society,  which  skill  and  capital  em- 
ploy in  the  war  of  the  wits,  to  exploitate  and  op- 
press the  poor,  the  improvident,  and  weak-minded. 
Its  evil  effects  are  greatly  aggravated  by  the  credit 
and  banking  systems,  and  by  the  facilities  of  inter- 
communication and  locomotion  which  the  world  now 
possesses.  Every  bargain  or  exchange  is  more  or 
less  a  hostile  encounter  of  wits.  Money  vastly  in- 
creases the  number  of  bargains  and  exchanges,  and 
thus  keep  society  involved,  if  not  in  war,  at  least 
in  unfriendly  collision.  Within  the  family,  money 
is  not  employed  between  its  members.     Where  the 


304  CANNIBALS   ALL;   OR, 

family  includes  slaves,  the  aggregate  use  of  money 
is  greatly  restricted.  Tliis  furnishes  us  with  ano- 
ther argument  to  prove  that  Christian  morality  is 
practicable,  to  a  great  extent,  in  slave  society — im- 
practicable in  free  society. 

The  Socialists  derive  this  idea  of  dispensing  with 
or  restricting  the  use  of  money,  from  Sparta  and 
other  ancient  States;  and  to  the  same  sources  may 
be  traced  almost  all  their  schemes  of  social  im- 
provement. Plato,  in  his  philosophy,  borrowed  from 
those  sources,  and  subsequent  Socialists  have  bor- 
rowed from  him.  We  annex  an  interesting  article 
on  this  subject  of  money  from  Sir  Thomas  Moore's 
Utopia : 

UTOPIA  ;  OR,  THE    IIAITY    REPULLIC. 

''  Therefore,  I  must  say  that,  as  I  hope  for  mercy,  I 
can  have  no  other  notion  of  all  the  governments  that  I  see 
or  know,  than  that  tliey  are  a  conspiracy  of  the  richer  sort, 
who,  on  pretence  of  managing  the  public,  do  onlj'  pursue 
their  j^rivate  ends,  and  devise  all  the  ways  and  arts  that 
they  can  find  out ;  first,  that  they  may,  without  danger, 
preserve  all  they  have  so  ill  ac(|uircd,  and  then,  that  they 
may  engage  the  former  sort  to  toil  and  labor  for  them  at 
as  low  rates  as  possible,  and  oppress  them  as  much  as 
they  please ;  and  if  they  can  but  prevail  to  get  these 
contrivances  established  by  public  authority,  which  is 
considered  as  the  representative  of  the  whole  people,  then 
they  are  accounted  laws ;  and  yet  these  wicked  men, 
after  they  have,  by  a  most  insatiable  covetousncss,  divi- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        805 

ded  that  among  themselves,  with  which  all  the  rest  might 
have  been  well  supplied,  are  far  from  that  happiness  that 
is  enjoyed  by  the  Utopians;  for  the  use  as  icell  as  the 
desire  of  money  being  extinguished^  there  is  much  anxiety 
and  great  occasion  of  mischief  cut  oif  with  it.  And  who 
does  not  see  that  frauds,  thefts,  robberies,  quarrels,  tu- 
mults, contentions,  seditions,  murders,  treacheries  and 
witchcrafts,  that  are  indeed  rather  punished  than  re- 
stricted by  the  severities  of  the  law,  would  ftdl  oif,  if 
money  were  not  any  more  valued  by  the  world.  Their 
fears,  solicitudes,  cares,  labors  and  watchings  would  all 
perish  in  the  same  moment  that  the  value  of  money  did 
sink." 


306  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OH, 


CHAPTER    XXIV. 

GERRIT    SMITH    ON    LAND    REFORM,    AND    WILLIAM 
LOYD    GARRISON    ON    NO-GOVERNMENT. 

Within  the  last  "week,  we  have  received  the  Land 
Reforme)',  an  agrarian  paper,  just  started  in  New 
York,  in  which  we  are  sure  we  recognize  the  pen 
of  Gerrit  Smith,  the  leader  of  the  New  York  aboli- 
tionists ;  and  also  a  No.  of  the  Liberator,  in  which 
Mr.  Garrison,  the  leader  of  the  New  England  aboli- 
tionists, defines  his  No-Government  doctrines. 

In  calling  attention.  North  and  South,  to  opi- 
nions openly  and  actively  promulgated  by  such  dis- 
tinguished men,  which  opinions  are  at  war  with  all 
existing  institutions,  we  are  rendering  equal  ser- 
vice to  all  sections  of  our  common  country. 

Mr.  Smith  says: 

"Why  should  not  this  monopoly  be  broken  up?  Be- 
cause, says  the  objector,  vested  rights  forbid  it.  But 
there  can  be  no  vested  rights  against  original  and  natural 
rights.  No  claim  of  a  part  of  the  human  family  to  the 
whole  earth  can  be  valid  against  the  claim  of  the  whole 
human  family  to  it.  No  passing  of  papers  or  parchments 
in  former  generations  can  foreclose  the  rights  of  the  pre- 
sent jrenerution.     No  bara'-uus  and  no  conventional  titles 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        807 

can  avail  in  justice  against  the  great  title-deeds,  by 
which  Nature  grants  and  conveys  herself  to  each  genera- 
tion, as  it  comes  upon  the  earth;  and  by  which  she 
makes  the  living  (simply  because  they  are  the  living, 
and  not  at  all  because  of  their  relation  to  the  dead)  the 
equal  owners  of  her  soil  and  seas,  her  light  and  air.  No 
arrangements,  by  which  the  six  thousand,  who  have  mo- 
nopolized the  lands  of  Ireland,  should  be  allowed  to  over- 
come the  title  of  the  sis  millions  to  it.  If  the  natural 
and  inherent  right  of  the  whole  is  not  paramount  to  that, 
which  the  fractions  claim  to  have  acquired,  then  are  the 
six  millions  horn  into  the  world  trespassers ;  and  then  is 
the  Creator  chargeable  with  a  lack  of  wisdom  and  good- 
ness. If  it  is  right  that  the  mass  of  men  should  hold 
their  standing-place  on  the  earth  by  mere  sufferance,  or 
upon  terms  dictated  by  their  fellows,  then  is  it  not  true 
that  God  is  an  Impartial  Father — for  then  it  is  not  true 
that  he  has  given  the  earth  to  all  his  children,  but  only 
to  a  select." 

We,  too,  think  Free  Society  a  very  bad  thing,  and 
a  decided  failure,  but  not  half  so  bad  as  Mr.  Smith 
paints  it.  There  is  a  poor-house  system  in  Ireland, 
which,  to  some  extent,  recognizes  the  doctrine  that 
all  men  are  entitled  to  live  on  the  earth,  and  be 
supported  from  it.  In  practice,  the  system  does 
not  always  work  well ;  yet  we  are  confident  it 
works  much  better  for  all  parties,  than  would  Mr. 
Smith's  plan  of  agrarianism. 

But  slavery  does,  in  practice  as  well  as  in  theory, 


808  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

acknowledge  and  enforce  the  right  of  all  to  be  com- 
fortably supported  from  the  soil.  There  was,  we 
repeat,  no  pauperism  in  Europe  till  feudal  slavery 
was  abolished. 

It  will  be  strange,  indeed,  if  the  voters  in  New 
York,  a  majority  of  whom  own  no  land,  do  not 
take  Mr.  Smith  at  his  word,  and  assert  their  supe- 
rior claim,  under  his  Higher  Law  and  "  Fundamen- 
tal Principles,"  to  all  the  land.  'Tis  a  concise  and 
ingenious  syllogism,  to  this  effect :  "  The  earth  be- 
longs equally  to  all  mankind,  under  the  Higher 
Law,  or  Law  of  God,  w^iich  is  superior  to  all  human 
laws  ;  therefore,  the  lackland  majority  have  a  bet- 
ter right  to  the  soil  than  the  present  proprietors, 
whose  title  is  derived  from  mere  human  law." 

It  never  did  occur  to  us,  that  the  paupers  had 
the  best  right  to  all  the  farms,  until  we  saw  this 
new  application  of  the  Higher  Law.  But  'tis  clear 
as  noon-day,  if  you  grant  the  Higher  Law,  as  ex- 
pounded by  Mr.  Seward;  and  we  expect  soon  to 
hear  that  they  arc  bringing  their  titles  into  court. 
Anti-rentism  looked  this  way,  and  anti-rentism 
chose  its  own  Governor  and  Judges. 

But  Mr.  Garrison  outbids  Mr.  Smith  all  holloAV 
for  the  pauper  vote.  He  promises  not  only  to 
every  one  his  "vine  and  fig-tree,"  but  a  vine  and 
fiff-tree  that  will  bear  fruit  without  culture.  He  is 
going  to  get  up  a  terrestrial  paradise,  in  which 
there  will  be  no  jails,  no  taxes,  no  labor,  no  want, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        309 

no  sickness,  no  pain,  no  government — in  fact,  no 
anything.  But  he  shall  speak  for  himself.  We  find 
the  following  in  the  Liberator  of  1st  August : 

''  Indeed,  properly  speaking,  there  is  but  one  govern- 
ment, and  that  is  not  human,  but  divine;  there  is  but 
one  law,  and  that  is  'the  Higher  Law/  there  is  but 
one  ruler,  and  that  one  is  God,  '  in  whom  we  live  and 
move,  and  have  our  being.'  What  is  called  human  gov- 
ernment is  usurpation,  imj^osture,  demagoguism,  pecula- 
tion, swindling,  and  tyranny,  more  or  less,  according  to 
circumstances,  and  to  the  intellectual  and  moral  condition 
of  the  people.  Unrpiestionably,  every  existing  govern- 
ment on  earth  is  to  be  overthrown  by  the  growth  of 
mind  and  moral  regeneration  of  the  masses.  xVbsolutism, 
limited  monarchy,  democracy — all  are  sustained  by  the 
sword ;  all  are  based  upon  the  doctrine,  that  '  Might 
makes  right;'  all  are  intrinsically  inhuman,  selfish,  clan- 
nish, and  opposed  to  a  recognition  of  the  brotherhood  of 
man.  They  are  to  liberty,  what  whi.skejf,  brandy  and 
gin  are  to  temperance.  They  belong  to  the  '  Kingdoms 
of  this  World,'  and  in  due  time  are  to  be  destroyed  by 
the  Brightness  of  the  coming  of  Him,  'whose  right  it  is 
to  reign ;'  and  by  the  erection  of  a  Kingdom  which  can- 
not be  shaken.  They  are  not  for  the  people,  but  make 
the  people  their  prey;  they  are  hostile  to  all  progress; 
they  resist  to  the  utmost  all  radical  changes.  All  his- 
tory shows  that  Liberty,  Humanity,  Justice  and  Right 
have  ever  been  in  conflict  with  existing  governments,  no 
matter  v/hat  their  theory  or  form.'' 


310  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

Mr.  Greelj's  Phalansteries,  Mr.  Andrews'  Free 
Love,  Mv.  Goodell's  ^lillenium,  and  Mr.  Smith's 
Agrarianism,  all  pale  before  this  Kingdom  of  Mr. 
Garrison's.  He  is  King  of  the  Abolitionists,  Great 
Anarch  of  the  North. 

We  cannot  reconcile  this  millennial  doctrine  of 
Mr.  Garrison's  with  another  doctrine,  which  we 
have  seen  imputed  to  him  in  the  Richmond  Exam- 
iner, to  wit,  that  there  is  no  God,  because  no  be- 
neficent Creator  would  have  so  constituted  mankind 
as  to  have  made  slavery  almost  uni\crsal.  Now, 
assume,  as  he  does,  that  slavery  is  a  cruel,  sinful 
and  wicked  institution,  destructive  alike  of  human 
happiness  and  well-being,  and  his  conclusion  is  irre- 
sistible. To  be  consistent,  all  anti-slavery  men 
should  be  atheists.  Ere  long,  we  suspect,  their 
consistency  will  equal  their  folly  and  profanity. 

With  us,  who  think  slavery  a  benevolent  institu- 
tion, equally  necessary  to  protect  the  weak,  and  to 
govern  the  Avicked  and  the  ignorant,  its  prevalence 
is  part  of  that  order  and  adaptation  of  the  universe 
that  "  lifts  the  soul  from  Nature  up  to  Nature's 
God." 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.         311 

CHAPTER    XXV. 

IN    WHAT    ANTI-SLAVERY    ENDS. 

Mr.  Carlyle  very  properly  contends  that  aboli- 
tion and  all  the  other  social  movements  of  the  day, 
propose  little  or  no  government  as  the  moral  pana- 
cea that  is  to  heal  and  save  a  suffering  world. 
Proudhon  expressly  advocates  anarchy ;  and  Ste- 
phen Pearl  Andrews,  the  ablest  of  American  soci- 
alistic and  abolition  philosophers,  elaborately  at- 
tacks all  existing  social  relations,  and  all  legal  and 
governmental  restraints,  and  proposes  No-Govern- 
ment as  their  substitute.  He  is  the  author  of  the 
Free  Love  experiment  in  New  York,  and  a  co- 
laborer  and  eulogist  of  similar  experiments  in  vil- 
lages or  settlements  in  Ohio,  Long  Island  and  other 
places  in  the  North  and  Northwest,  He  is  a  fol- 
lower of  Josiah  Warren,  who  was  associated  with 
Owen  of  Lanark  at  New  Harmony.  We  do  not 
know  that  there  is  any  essential  difference  between 
his  system  and  that  which  has  been  for  many  years 
past  practically  carried  out  in  Oneida  county,  New 
York,  by  the  Perfectionists,  who  construe  the  Bible 
into  authority  for  the  unrestrained  indulgence  of 
every  sensual  appetite.  The  doctrines  of  Fourier, 
of  Owen  and  Fanny  Wright,  and  the  other  early 


312  CANNIBALS    ALL;     OR, 

Socialists,  all  lead  to  No-Govcrnment  and  Free 
Love.  'Tis  probable  tliey  foresaw  and  intended 
this  result,  but  did  not  suggest  or  propose  it  to  a 
world  then  too  -wicked  and  unenlightened  to  appre- 
ciate its  beatific  purity  and  loveliness.  The  mate- 
rials, as  well  as  the  proceedings  of  the  infidel,  ayo- 
man's  rights,  negro's  rights,  free-every  thing  and 
anti-every  school,  headed  and  conducted  in  Boston, 
by  Garrison,  Parker,  Phillips,  and  their  associate 
women  and  negroes,  show  that  they  too  are  busy 
with  "assiduous  wedges"  in  loosening  the  whole 
frame  of  society,  and  preparing  for  the  glorious 
advent  of  Free  Love  and  No-Government.  All 
the  Infidel  and  Abolition  })apers  in  the  North  be- 
tray a  similar  tendency.  The  Abolitionists  of  New 
York,  headed  by  Gerrit  Smith  and  Wm.  Goodell, 
are  engaged  in  precisely  the  same  projects,  but 
being  Christians,  would  dignify  Free  Love  and  No- 
Government  with  the  appellation  of  a  Millenium. 
Probably  half  the  Abolitionists  at  the  North  expect 
a  great  social  revolution  soon  to  occur  by  the  ad- 
vent of  the  JNIillenium.  If  they  would  patiently 
await  that  event,  instead  of  attempting  to  get  it 
up  themselves,  their  delusions,  however  ridiculous, 
might  at  least  be  innocuous.  But  these  progres- 
sive Christian  Socialists  diftcr  not  at  all  from  the 
Infidel  Socialists  of  Boston.  They  are  equally 
intent  and  busy  in  pulling  down  the  priesthood, 
and    abolishing    or    dividing    all    property — seeing 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        313 

that  ^yllether  the  denouement  be  Free  Love  or  a 
Millenium,  the  destruction  of  all  existing  human 
relations  and  human  institutions  is  pre-requisite  to 
their  full  fruition. 

Many  thousand  as  have  been  of  late  years  the 
social  experiments  attempting  to  practice  commu- 
nity of  property,  of  wives,  children,  &c.,  and  nu- 
merous as  the  books  inculcating  and  approving  such 
practices,  yet  the  existence  and  growth  of  Mormon- 
ism  is  of  itself  stronger  evidence  than  all  other  of 
the  tendency  of  modern  free  society  towards  No- 
Government  and  Free  Love.  In  the  name  of  poly- 
gamy, it  has  practically  removed  all  restraints  to 
the  intercourse  of  sexes,  and  broken  up  the  Family. 
It  promises,  too,  a  qualified  community  of  property 
and  a  fraternal  association  of  labor.  It  beats  up 
monthly  thousands  of  recruits  from  free  society  in 
Europe  and  America,  but  makes  not  one  convert  in 
the  slaveholding  South.  Slavery  is  satisfied  and 
conservative.  Abolition,  finding  that  all  existing 
legal,  religious,  social  and  governmental  institu- 
tions restrict  liberty  and  occasion  a  quasi  slavery, 
is  resolved  not  to  stop  short  of  the  subversion  of 
all  those  institutions,  and  the  inauguration  of  Free 
Love  and  No-Government.  The  only  cure  for  all 
this  is  for  free  society  sternly  to  recognize  slavery 
as  right  in  principle,  and  necessary  in  practice, 
with  more  or  less  of  modification,  to  the  very  exist- 
14 


814  CANNIBALS    ALL;    OR, 

onco  of  government,  of  property,  of  religion,  and 
of  social  existence. 

We  shall  not  attempt  to  reconcile  the  doctrines  of 
the  Socialists,  Tyhich  propose  to  remove  all  legal  re- 
straints, "with  their  denunciations  of  Political  Eco- 
nomy. Let  Alone  is  the  essence  of  Political  Eco- 
nomy and  the  whole  creed  of  most  of  the  Social- 
ists. The  Political  Economists,  Let  Alone,  for  a  fair 
fi^ht,  for  universal  rivalry,  antagonism,  competition 
and  cannibalism.  They  say,  the  eating  up  the 
■weaker  members  of  society,  the  killing  them  out 
by  capital  and  competition,  will  improve  the  breed 
of  men  and  benefit  society.  They  foresee  the  con- 
sequences of  their  doctrine,  and  are  consistent. 
Hobbes  saw  men  devouring  one  .another,  under 
their  system,  two  hundred  years  ago,  and  we  all 
see  them  similaidy  engaged  now.  The  Socialists 
promise  that  when  society  is  wholy  disintegrated 
and  dissolved,  by  inculcating  good  principles  and 
"singing  fraternity  over  it,"  all  men  will  co-ope- 
rate, love,  and  help  one  another. 

They  place  men  in  positions  of  equality,  rivalry, 
and  antagonism,  which  must  result  in  extreme  sel- 
fishness of  conduct,  and  yet  propose  this  system  as 
a  cure  for  selfishness.  To  us  their  reasonings  seem 
absurd. 
_j^  Yet  the  doctrines  so  prevalent  with  Aboli- 
tionists  and   Socialists,    of   Free   Love   and    Free 


SLAVES    WITHOUT   MASTERS.  315 

Lands,  Free  Churches,  Free  Women  and  Free 
Negroes — of  No-Marriage,  No-Religion,  No-Pri- 
vate Property,  No-Law  and  No-Government,  are 
legitimate  deductions,  if  not  obvious  corollaries 
from  the  leading  and  distinctive  axiom  of  political 
economy — Laissez  Faire,  or  let  alone. 

All  the  leading  Socialists  and   Abolitionists  of  \Tk.- 
i^^^M  Ncitth,  "we  think,  agree   with    Fanny  Wright,     \ 
that  the  gradual  changes  which  have  taken  place  in      | 
social  organization  from  domestic  slavery  to  predial      I 
serfdom   and  thence  to  the  present  system  of  free      ' 
and  competitive  society,  have  been  mere  transitive 
states,  each  placing  the  laborer  in  a  worse  condition 
than  that  of  absolute  slavery,  •  yet  valuable  as  pre- 
paring the  way  for  a  new  and  more   perfect  social 
state.     They  value  the  present  state  of  society  the 
more  highly  because  it  is  intolerable,  and  must  the 
sooner  usher  in  a  Millenium  or  Utopia. .  •     y 


316  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OK, 


CHATTER    XXVI. 

CHRISTIAN  MOIIALITY  IMPRACTICABLE  IN  FREE  SO- 
CIETY—BUT THE  NATURAL  ^MORALITY  OF  SLAVE 
SOCIETY. 

It  is  strange  that  theories,  self-evidcntly  true  so 
soon  as  suggested,  remain  undiscovered  for  cen- 
turies. What  more  evident,  obvious,  and  axiomatic, 
than  that  equals  must  from  necessity  be  rivals,  an- 
tagonists, competitors,  and  enemies.  Self-preserva- 
tion, the  first  law  of  human  and  animal  nature, 
makes  this  selfish  course  of  action  essential  to  pre- 
serve existence.  It  is  almost  equally  obvious,  that 
in  the  natural,  social,  or  family  state,  unselfishness, 
or  the  preference  of  others'  good  and  happiness,  is 
the  dictate  of  nature  and  policy.  Nature  impels 
the  father  and  husband  to  self-abnegation  and  self- 
denial  to  promote  the  happiness  of  "wife  and  chil- 
dren, because  his  refiected  enjoyments  will  be  a 
thousand  times  greater  than  any  direct  pleasure  he 
can  derive  by  stinting  or  maltreating  them.  Their 
misery  and  their  complaints  do  much  more  to  ren- 
der him  wretched  than  Avhat  he  has  denied  them  can 
compensate  for.  Wife  and  children,  too,  see  and  feel 
that  in  denying  themselves  and  promoting  the  hap- 
piness of  the  head  of  the  family,  they  pursue  true 


SLAVES  AVITHOUT  MASTERS.  S17 

policy,  and  arc  most  sensibly  selfish  when  they  seem 
most  unselfish.  Especially,  however,  is  it  true  with 
slaves  and  masters,  that  to  "  do  as  they  would  be 
done  by"  is  mutually  beneficial.  Good  treatment 
and  proper  discipline  renders  the  slave  happier, 
healthier,  more  valuable,  grateful,  and  contented. 
Obedience,  industry  and  loyalty  on  the  part  of 
the  slave,  increases  the  master's  ability  and  disposi- 
tion to  protect  and  take  care  of  him.  The  in- 
terests of  all  the  members  of  a  natural  familv, 
slaves  included,  are  identical.  Selfishness  finds  no 
place,  because  nature,  common  feelings  and  self- 
interest  dictate  to  all  that  it  is  their  true  interest 
"  to  love  their  neighbor  as  themselves,"  and  "to  do 
as  they  would  be  done  by," — at  least,  within  the 
precincts  of  the  family.  To  throw  off  into  the 
world  wife,  children,  and  slaves,  would  injure,  not 
benefit  them.  To  neglect  to  punish  children  or 
slaves  when  they  deserved  it,  would  not  be  to  do  as 
we  would  be  done  by.  Such  punishment  is  gene- 
rally the  highest  reach  of  self-abnegation  and  self- 
control.  'Tis  easy  and  agreeable  to  be  indulgent 
and  remiss — hard  to  exact  and  enforce  duty.  Se- 
vere disciplinarians  are  the  best  officers,  teachers, 
parents,  and  masters,  and  most  revered  and  loved 
by  their  subordinates.  They  sacrifice  their  time 
and  their  feelings  to  duty,  and  for  the  ultimate  good 
of  others.  Easy,  lax,-  indulgent  men  are  generally 
selfish  and  sensual,  and  justly  forfeit  the  respect 
and  affection  of  those  whom  they  neglect  to  punish, 


318  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

because  to  do  so  -would  disturb  their  Epicurean  re- 
pose. Christian  morality  is  neither  difficult  nor 
unnatural  where  dependent,  family,  and  slave  rela- 
tions exist,  and  Christian  morality  was  preached 
and  only  intended  for  such. 

The  whole  morald  of  free  society  is,  "Everyman, 
woman  and  child  for  himself  and  herself."  Slave- 
ry in  every  form  must  be  abolished.  AVives  must 
have  distinct,  separate,  and  therefore  antagonistic 
and  conflicting  interests  from  their  husbands,  and 
children  must  as  soon  as  possible  be  remitted  to  the 
rights  of  manhood.  Is  it  not  passing  strange,  Avon- 
derful,  that  such  men  as  Channing  and  Wayland 
did  not  see  that  their  world  of  universal  liberty  was 
a  world  of  universal  selfishness,  discord,  competi- 
tion, rivalry,  and  war  of  the  wits.  Ilobbes  did  see 
it,  and  supposing  there  was  no  other  world,  said  "a 
state  of  nature  was  a  state  of  war."  But  the  fam- 
ily, including  slaves,  which  the  Abolitionists  would 
destroy,  has  been  almost  universal,  and  is  therefore 
natural.  Christian  morality  is  the  natural  morality 
in  slave  society,  and  slave  society  is  the  only  natu- 
ral society.  Such  society  as  that  of  the  curly  Pa- 
triarchs of  Judea,  under  Moses  and  Joshua,  and  as 
that  of  the  South,  would  never  beget  a  sceptic,  a 
Ilobbes,  a  AYayland,  nor  a  Channing.  In  such  so- 
ciety it  is  natural  for  men  to  love  one  another.  The 
ordinary  relations  of  men  are  not  competitive  and 
antagonistic  as  in  free  society ;  and  selfishness  is 
not  general,  but  exceptionable.     Duty  to  self  is  the 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        819 

first  of  duties :  free  society  makes  it  the  only  duty. 
Man  is  not  naturally  selfish  or  had,  for  he  is  natu- 
rally social.  Free  society  dissociates  him,  and 
makes  him  bad  and  selfish  from  necessity. 

It  is  said  in  Scripture,  that  it  is  harder  for  a  rich 
man  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven  than  for  a 
camel  to  pass  through  the  eye  of  a  needle.  We 
are  no  theologian ;  but  do  know  from  history  and 
observation  that  wealthy  men  who  are  sincere  and 
devout  Christians  in  free  society,  feel  at  a  loss  what 
to  do  with  their  wealth,  so  as  not  to  make  it  an  in- 
strument of  oppression  and  wrong.  Capital  and 
skill  are  powers  exercised  almost  always  to  oppress 
labor.  If  you  endow  colleges,  you  rear  up  cunning, 
voracious  exploitators  to  devour  the  poor.  If  you 
give  it  to  tradesmen  or  land  owners,  'tis  still  an  ad- 
ditional instrument,  always  employed  to  oppress 
laborers.  If  you  give  it  to  the  really  needy,  you  too 
often  encourage  idleness,  and  increase  the  burdens 
of  the  working  poor  who  support  every  bodyf  We 
cannot  possibly  see  but  one  safe  way  to  invest 
wealth,  and  that  is  to  buy  slaves  with  it,  whose  con- 
duct you  can  control,  and  be  sure  that  your  charity 
is  not  misapplied,  and  mischievous. 

Is  there  any  other  safe  way  of  investing  wealth, 
or  bestowing  charity  ?  We  regret  that  delicacy  re- 
strains us  from  putting  the  question  to  a  celebrated 
wealthy  philanthropist  of  the  North,  who  is  candid, 
bold,  experienced,  and  an  Abolitionist  to  boot. 


320  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XXYII. 

SLAVERY— ITS    EFFECTS    ON    THE    FREE. 

Beaten  at  every  other  quarter,  we  learn  that  a 
distinguished  ;Yriter  at  the  North,  is  about  to  be  put 
forward  by  the  Abolitionists,  to  prove  that  tlie  influ- 
ence of  slavery  is  deleterious  on  the  wliites  who 
own  no  slaves. 

Now,  at  first  view  it  elevates  those  whites ;  for  it 
makes  them  not  the  bottom  of  society,  as  at  the 
North — not  the  menials,  the  hired  day  laborer,  the 
work  scavengers  and  scullions — but  privileged  citi- 
zens, like  Greek  and  Rouum  citizens,  Avith  a  nume- 
rous class  far  beneath  them.  In  slave  society,  one 
white  man  does  not  lord  it  over  another;  for  all 
are  equal  in  privilege,  if  not  in  wealth ;  and  the 
poorest  would  not  become  a  menial — hold  your  horse, 
and  then  extend  his  hand  or  his  hat  for  a  gra- 
tuity, were  you  to  proffer  him  the  wealth  of  the 
Indies.  The  menial,  the  exposed  and  laborious,  and 
the  disgraceful  occupations,  are  all  filled  by  slaves. 
Rut  filled  they  must  be  by  some  one,  and  in  free 
society,  half  of  its  members  are  employed  in  occupa- 
tions that  are  not  considered  or  treated  as  respecta- 
ble. Our  slaves  till  the  land,  do  the  coarse  and 
hard  labor   on  our  roads  and    canals,   sweep  our 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        321 

streets,  cook  our  food,  brush  our  boots,  wait  on  our 
tables,  hold  our  horses,  do  all  hard  work,  and  fdl 
all  menial  offices.  Your  frcoraen  at  the  North  do 
the  same  work  and  fill  the  same  offices.  The  only 
difierence  is,  we  love  our  slaves,  and  we  are  ready 
to  defend,  assist  and  protect  them;  you  hate  and 
fear  your  white  servants,  and  never  fail,  as  a  moral 
duty,  to  screw  down  their  wages  to  the  lowest,  and 
to  starve  their  families,  if  jiossible,  as  evidence  of 
your  thrift,  economy  and  management — the  only 
English  and  Yankee  virtues. 

In  free  society,  miscalled  freemen  fulfill  all  the 
offices  of  slaves  for  less  wages  than  slaves,  and  are 
infinitely  less  liked  and  cared  for  by  their  superiors 
than  slaves.  Does  this  elevate  them  and  render 
them  happy  ? 

The  trades,  the  professions,  the  occupations  that 
pay  well,  and  whose  work  is  light,  is  reserved  for 
freemen  in  slave  society.     Does  this  depress  them? 

The  doctor,  the  lawyer,  the  mechanic,  the  den- 
tist, the  merchant,  the  overseer,  every  trade  and 
profession,  in  fact,  live  from  the  proceeds  of  slave 
labor  at  the  South.  They  divide  the  profits  with 
the  owner  of  the  slaves.  He  has  nothing  to  pay 
them  except  what  his  slaves  make.  But  you  Yan- 
yecs  and  Englishmen  more  than  divide  the  profits — 
you  take  the  lion's  share.  You  make  more  money 
from  our  cotton,  and  tobacco,  and  sugar,  and  indigo, 
and  wheat,  and  corn,  and  rice,  than  vre  make  our- 


322  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

selves.  You  live  by  slave  labor — would  perish  with- 
out it — yet  you  abuse  it.  Cut  off  England  and  New 
England  from  the  South  American,  East  and  West 
India  and  our  markets,  from  which  to  buy  their  food, 
and  in  which  to  sell  their  manufactures,  and  they 
would  starve  at  once.  You  live  by  our  slave  labor. 
It  elevates  your  whites  as  well  as  ours,  by  confining 
them,  in  a  great  degree,  to  skillful,  well-paying, 
light  and  intellectual  employments — and  it  feeds 
and  clothes  them.  Abolish  slavery,  and  you  Avill 
suffer  vastly  more  than  Ave,  because  we  have  all  the 
lands  of  the  South,  and  can  command  labor  as  you  do, 
and  a  genial  soil  and  climate,  that  require  less  labor. 
But  while  in  the  absence  of  slavery,  we  could  sup- 
port ourselves,  we  should  cease  to  support  you.  We 
would  neither  send  you  food  and  clothing,  nor  buy 
your  worse  than  useless  notions. 


SLAVES    AVITHOUT    MASTERS.  323 


CHAPTER    XXVIII. 

*        PRIVATE   PROPERTY   DESTROYS   LIBERTY   AND 
EQUALITY. 

The  Abolitionists  and  Socialists,  who,  alone,  have 
explored  the  recesses  of  social  science,  well  under- 
stand that  thev  can  never  establish  their  Utopia 
until  private  property  is  abolished  or  equalized. 
The  man  without  property  is  theoretically,  and,  too 
often,  practically,  without  a  single  right.  Air  and 
water,  'tis  generally  believed,  are  the  common  pro- 
perty of  mankind ;  but  nothing  is  falser  in  fact  as 
well  as  theory.  The  ownership  of  land  gives  to 
the  proprietor  the  exclusive  right  to  every  thing 
above  and  beneath  the  soil.  The  lands  are  all  ap- 
propriated, and  w^ith  them  the  air  above  them,  the 
waters  on  them,  and  the  mines  beneath  them.  The 
pauper,  to  breathe  the  air  or  drink  the  waters, 
must  first  find  a  place  where  he  may  rightfully  en- 
joy them.  He  can  find,  at  all  times,  no  such  place, 
and  is  compelled,  by  his  necessities,  to  inhale  the 
close  and  putrid  air  of  small  rooms,  damp  cellars 
and  crowded  factories,  and  to  drink  insufiicient 
quantities  of  impure  water,  furnished  to  him  at  a 


324  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OR, 

pvicc  lie  can  ill  afford.  lie  pays  for  the  water 
"which  he  drinks,  hecanse  it  has  ceased  to  be  com- 
mon property.  He  is  not  free,  because  he  has  no 
"where  that  he  may  rightfully  lay  his  head.  Private 
property  has  monopolized  the  earth,  and  destroyed 
both  his  liberty  and  equality.  He  has  no  security  . 
for  his  life,  for  he  cannot  live  "\vithout  employment 
and  adequate  wages,  and  none  arc  bound  to  employ 
him.  If  the  earth  were  in  common,  he  could 
always  enjoy  not  only  air  and  water,  but  by  his  in- 
dustry might  earn  the  means  of  subsistence.  His 
situation  is  theoretically  and  practically  desperate 
and  mtolcrable.  Were  he  a  slave,  he  would  enjoy 
in  fact  as  Avell  as  in  legal  fiction,  all  necessary  and 
essential  rights.  Pure  air  and  water,  a  house,  suffi- 
cient food,  fire,  and  clothing,  would  be  his  at  all 
times.  Slavery  is  a  form  of  communism,  and  as 
the  Abolitionists  and  Socialists  have  resolved  to 
adopt  a  new  social  system,  wo  recommend  it  to 
their  consideration.  \The  manner  in  which  the 
change  shall  be  made  from  the  present  form  of  so- 
ciety to  that  system  of  communism  which  we  pro- 
pose is  very  simple.  Negro  slaves  are  now  worth 
seven  hundred  dollars  a-head.  As  whites  work 
harder,  they  are  Avorth  about  a  thousand.  Make 
the  man  who  owns  a  thousand  dollars  of  capital  the 
guardian  (the  term  master  is  objectionable)  of  one 
white  pauper  of  average  value;  give  the  man  who 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  325 

is  'vrorth  ten  thousand  dollars  ten  paupers,  and  the 
millionaire  a  thousand.  This  would  he  an  act  of 
simple  mercy  and  justice ;  for  the  capitalists  now  live 
entirely  hy  the  proceeds  of  poor  men's  labor,  which 
capital  enables  them  to  command;  and  they  com- 
mand and  enjoy  it  in  almost  the  exact  proportions 
which  Y*'e  have  designated.  Thus,  a  family  of  poor 
laborers,  men,  women  and  children,  ten  in  number, 
can  support  themselves,  and  make  about  six  hun- 
dred dollars,  for  their  employer,  which  is  the  in- 
terest on  ten  thousand.  They  would  work  no 
harder  than  they  do  now,  would  be  under  no 
greater  necessity  to  work,  would  be  relieved  of 
most  of  the  cares  of  life,  and  let  into  the  enjoy- 
ment of  all  valuable  and  necessary  rights.  What 
would  they  lose  in  liberty  and  equality?  Just 
nothing.  Having  more  rights,  they  would  have 
more  liberty  than  now,  and  approach  nearer  to 
equality.  It  might  be,  that  their  security  and  ex- 
emption from  care  would  render  their  situation  pre- 
ferable to  that  of  their  employers.  We  suspect  it 
would  be  easier  to  find  wards  or  slaves  than  guar- 
dians or  masters — for  the  gain  would  be  all  on  the 
laborer's  side,  and  the  loss  all  on  that  of  the  capi- 
talist. I 
Set  your  miscalled  free  laborers  actually  free,  by^ 
giving  them  enough  property  or  capital  to  live  on, 
and  then  call  on  us  at  the  South  to  free  our  nee;roes. 


326  CANNIBALS  ALL  ;    OR, 

At  present,  you  Abolitionists  know  our  negro  slaves 
are  much  the  freer  of  the  two;  and  it  would  be  a 
great  advance  towards  freeing  your  laborers,  to 
give  them  guardians,  bound,  like  our  masters,  to 
take  care  of  them,  and  entitled,  in  consideration 
thereof,  to  the  proceeds  of  their  labor. 


SLAVES  AVITHOUT   MASTERS.  327 


CHAPTER    XXIX. 

THE   NATIONAL   ERA   AN   EXCELLENT   WITNESS. 

In  an  article  in  the  Era  of  August  IG,  1855, 
criticising  and  denying  our  theory  of  tlie  Failure  of 
Free  Society,  the  writer  begins  by  asserting,  "  We 
demonstrated,  last  week,  from  history,  that  the 
condition  of  the  poor  of  England  has  greatly  im- 
proved in  modern  times,  as  they  have  become  free 
from  the  restraints  of  feudal  bondage."  He  then 
goes  on  to  criticise  us,  but,  before  concluding,  con- 
tradicts and  refutes  his  work  of  the  week  before, 
and  adopts  our  theory  in  its  fullest  extent.  He 
admits  the  intolerable  exploitation  and  oppression 
of  capital  over  labor,  but  looks  forward  to  the  day 
when  it  will  be  corrected.  He  is,  like  all  Aboli- 
tionists, agrarian;  He  holds  our  doctrine,  too,  that 
the  serfs  were  set  free  to  starve,  not  because  lib- 
erty was  a  good  or  a  boon.  He  further  holds,  that 
the  poor  laborers  could  not  get  masters  if  they 
wanted  them,  because  the  rich  can  got  their  labor 
on  better  terms.  Thus  he  distinctly  shows  that 
Free  Society  has  failed,  and  why  it  has  failed. 
We  know  very  well  the  rich  of  Western  Europe 
would  not  willingly  take  the  poor  as  slaves,  but  the 


328  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

law  should  compel  them  to  do  so ;  for  that  is  the 
only  feasible  system  of  agrarianism,  the  only  prac- 
ticable way  of  letting  in  all  men  to  a  sufficient,  if 
not  equal,  enjoyment  of  terra  matre.  Here  is  his 
refutation  of  liimself,  and  confirmation  of  our  theo- 
ry, which  he  thinks  he  is  upsetting.  AVe  never 
take  up  an  abolition  paper  without  finding  doctrines 
like  those  of  the  Era,  and  only  adduce  it  as  a 
specimen : 

''Under  despotic  and  corrupt  governments,  which  op- 
press the  people  with  taxes,  to  support  extravagant  mis- 
rule and  unnecessary  war — which  debauch  them  by  evil 
example  of  those  in  high  places,  and  discourage  educa- 
tion or  render  it  impossible — the  condition  of  the  poor 
and  nominally  free  becomes  truly  deplorable.  But  it  is 
not  Freedom  which  is  their  undoing — it  is  rather  the 
lack  of  it.  It  is  their  subjection,  through  ignorance,  to 
bad  rulers,  which  keeps  them  in  poverty.  We  know 
that  the  claim  laid  by  capital  to  the  lion's  share  of  profits 
is  itself,  under  any  circumstances,  a  great  obstruction  to 
the  progress  of  the  masses;  but  we  believe  that  even  that 
obstacle  will  one  day  be  removed — that  problem  in  politi- 
cal science  be  solved  by  civilization  and  Christianity. 
We  believe  that  the  human  intellect  will  never,  with  the 
light  of  the  Gospel  to  guide  and  inspire  its  efforts,  sur- 
render to  the  cold  and  heartless  reign  of  capital  over 
labor.  But,  at  any  rate,  one  thing  is  certain,  under  the 
worst  form  of  government,  or  the  best,  namely :  when 
Freedom  becomes  a  burden  and  a  curse    to  the   poor. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  329 

Slavery — that  is  to  say,  the  enslavement  of  the  mass  of 
laborers,  with  responsibility  on  the  part  of  the  master  for 
their  support — is  no  longer  possible.  When  freemen  are 
unable  to  support,  themselves,  among  all  the  diversified 
employments  of  free  societies,  it  would  he  impossible  for 
them  to  find  masters  •willing  to  take  the  responsibility. 
The  masses  in  Europe,  in  fact,  owe  their  liberty  to  the 
excessive  supply  of  slave  labor,  which,  when  it  becomes 
a  burden  to  the  land,  was  cast  aside  as  worthless.  Who 
believes  that  Irish  landlords  would  take  the  responsibility 
of  supporting  the  peasantry,  on  the  condition  of  their 
becoming  slaves  ?  In  fact,  is  it  not  notorious  that  they 
help  them  to  emigrate  to  America,  and  often  pull  down 
their  cabins  and  huts,  in  order  to  drive  them  off?" 

In  further  proof  of  the  agrarian  doctrines  of  the 
Abolitionists,  we  add  an  article  from  the  Northern 
Christian  Advocate,  a  clever  Methodist  paper,  ed- 
ited in  the  State  of  New  York : 

"Factory  Operatives. — There  is  a  class  of  laborers, 
consisting  of  men,  women  and  children,  whom  we  never 
contemplate  but  with  regret — we  see  them,  at  least,  in 
imagination,  subsiding,  in  spite  of  all  their  care,  into 
utter  dependence  and  poverty.  Hence,  we  never  look 
upon  a  factory  or  large  manufacturing  establishment  with 
unmingled  pleasure.  The  men  and  women,  who  ply  its 
machinery,  are  too  apt  to  become  identified  with  such 
establishments  in  an  improper  degree.  This  process  of 
assimilation  and  identification  goes  on  slowly,  but  surely, 
till  at  last  the  individual  and  the  factory  are  so  blended 


330  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;    OR, 

into  one,  that  a  separate  existence  is  impossible.  One  or 
two  generations  are  required  to  bring  about  this  state  of 
things.  Pecuniary  dependence,  ignorance  of  other  em- 
ployments, physical  malformation,  and  the  general  help- 
lessness of  a  mere  factory  population,  are  not  the  work  of 
a  day.  Individuals  cannot  be  detached  from  other  pur- 
suits at  once — cannot  have  manufacturing  knowledge 
and  no  other  knowledge  until  they  have  had  time  to  drift 
away  from  other  occupations.  13ut  however  retarded  the 
eflfect,  it  is  sure  to  follow,  and  consequently  every  large 
mechanical  establishment  must  be  considered  as  having 
certain  malign  tendencies,  which  are  to  be  carefully 
guarded  against. 

"  The  causes  of  the  evil  under  consideration  are  very 
obvious,  as  is  also  their  appropriate  remedy.  We  must 
set  down  as  the  first  and  principal  cause  of  injury,  the 
fact  that  the  capital  which  sustains  mechanical  business 
is  not  under  the  control  of  the  operatives.  The  mills  or 
machines  may  stop  at  any  hour  in  spite  of  the  wants  or 
wishes  of  the  employees.  Wages  may  be  put  down,  little 
or  much,  with  or  without  notice.  Operatives  are  not 
consulted  in  such  cases.  The  motive  may  be  good  or 
bad — it  may  be  to  guard  against  bankruptcy,  or  to  amass 
wealth  from  the  sinews  of  a  toiling,  dependent  race. 
But,  whatever  the  motive  and  the  decision,  the  operative 
is  helpless — he  can  control  neither  the  one  nor  the  other. 
It  is  his  to  labor ;  others  are  charged  with  the  regulation 
of  prices,  and  the  only  check  in  his  power  is  the  preca- 
rious one  of  a  strike.  Strikes  in  business  are  like  insur- 
rections in  civil  governments — a  last,  desperate  remedy, 
and  as  often  fatal  to  the  sufferer  as  protective  of  his  in- 


SLAVES  ^YITHOUT   MASTERS.  331 

terests.  The  same  is  true  of  the  farmer  who  does  not 
own  the  soil  on  which  he  labors,  but  is  compelled  to 
make  terms  with  a  landlord.  Hence,  the  well  known  in- 
surmountable evils  of  agricultural  tenantry.  In  Europe 
it  has  produced  serfdom  and  feudalism,  besides  a  good 
deal  of  servitude  and  degradation  concealed  under  the 
mild  name  of  peasant.  It  matters  not  what  the  occupa- 
tion may  be,  as  soon  as  the  laborer  becomes  thoroughly 
dependent,  and  feels  that  dependence,  the  system  does 
him  an  incalculable  injury.  It  is  for  this  reason  that 
large  landholders  always  deteriorate  the  population,  and 
society  becomes  worthless  just  in  proportion  as  the  means 
of  independent  existence  pass  from  the  hands  of  the  many 
to  the  few.  This  difficulty  is,  and  must  be  forever  in 
the' way  of  conducting  manufacturing  establishments  on 
the  present  plan.  Perhaps  some  means  of  diffusing 
capital  among  operatives,  or,  what  is  the  same,  of  giving 
the  laborer  reasonable  securities,  may  yet  be  discovered; 
but  the  change  would  require  to  be  radical.  The  mono- 
poly of  capital,  is  so  nearly  like  the  monopoly  of  land, 
that  we  may  readily,  see  no  partial  measures  can  ever 
effect  a  cure," 


332  CANNIDALS    ALL  ;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XXX. 

THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  THE  ISIMS— SHEWING  WHY  THEY 
ABOUND  AT  THE  NORTH,  AND  ARE  UNKNOWN  AT 
THE  SOUTH. 

The  exploitation,  or  unjust  exactions  of  skill  and 
capital  in  free  society,  excite  the  learned  and  phi- 
lanthropic to  devise  schemes  of  escape,  and  impel 
the  lahorcrs  to  adopt  those  schemes,  however  chi- 
merical, because  they  feel  that  their  situation  can- 
not be  worsted.  They  are  already  slaves  without 
masters,  and  that  is  the  bathos  of  human  misery. 
Besides,  universal  liberty  has  disintegrated  and  dis- 
solved society,  and  placed  men  in  isolated,  selfish, 
and  antagonistic  positions — in  which  cacli  man  is 
compelled  to  wrong  others,  in  order  to  be  just  to 
himself.  But  man's  nature  is  social,  not  selfish, 
and  he  longs  and  yearns  to  return  to  parental,  fra- 
ternal and  associative  relations.  All  the  isms  concur 
in  promising  closer  and  more  associative  relations, 
in  establishing  at  least  a  qualified  community  of 
property,  and  in  insuring  the  weak  and  unfortunate 
the  necessaries  and  comforts  of  life.  Indeed,  they 
all  promise  to  establish  slavery — minus,  the  master 
and  the  overseer.     As  the  evils  which  we  have  de- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        333 

scribed  arc  little  felt  at  tlic  South,  men  here  Avould 
as  soon  think  of  entering  the  lion's  cage,  as  going 
into  one  of  their  incestuous  establishments.  Mor- 
monism  is  only  a  monster  development  of  the  isms. 
They  are  all  essentially  alike,  and  that  the  most 
successful,  because,  so  far,  it  has  been  socialism — 
plus  the  overseer.  The  mantle  of  Joe  Smith  de- 
scended on  Brigham  Young,  and  if  he  transmit  to 
a  true  prophet,  there  is  no  telling  how  long  the 
thing  may  work.  Mormonism  had  its  birth  in 
Western  New  Yoi-k,  that  land  fertile  of  isms — 
where  also  arose  Spiritual  Rappings  and  Oneida 
Perfectionism — where  Shakers,  and  Millenarians, 
and  Millerites  abound,  and  all  heresies  do  most 
flourish.  Mormonism  now  is  daily  gathering  thou- 
sands of  recruits  from  free  society  in  Europe,  Asia, 
Africa,  and  our  North,  and  not  one  from  the  South. 
It  has  no  religion,  but  in  place  of  it,  a  sensual 
moral  code,  that  shocks  the  common  sense  of  pro- 
priety. But  it  holds  property  somewhat  in  com- 
mon, draws  men  together  in  closer  and  more  frater- 
nal relations,  and  promises  (probably  falsely)  a  safe 
retreat  and  refuge  from  the  isolated  and  inimical 
relations,  the  killing  competition  and  exploitation, 
of  free  society.  All  the  other  isms  do  the  same — 
but  mal-administration,  or  the  want  of  a  master, 
soon  explodes  them.  We  saw  last  year  an  adver- 
tisement, under  the  hammer,  of  the  last  of  fourteen 
phalansteries,  established  at  the  North  on  the  Gree- 


334  CANNIBALS   ALL;   OR, 

ly-Fourierite  plan.  The  Shakers  do  better ;  but 
Mr,  S.  P.  Andrews,  "wlio  is  an  expert,  informs  us 
that  tliey,  like  the  Mormons,  have  a  despotic  head. 
Socialism,  Avith  such  despotic  head,  approaches  very 
near  to  Southern  slavery,  and  gets  along  vefi'y  well 
so  long  as  the  despot  lives.  Mr.  S.  P.  Andrews 
should  enlighten  the  public  as  to  the  progress  of 
the  Free  Love  villages  of  Trialville,  in  Ohio,  Modern 
Zion,  on  Long  Island,  &c.  "  Self-elected  despot- 
ism" is  his  theory  of  the  perfection  of  society. 
Has  any  Cromwell,  or  Napoleon,  or  Joe  Smith, 
seized  the  sceptre  in  those  delightful  villages,  Avhich 
we  hope  will  soon  inspire  the  pen  of  some  Northern 
Bocaccio.  Human  opinion  advances  in  concentric 
circles.  Abolition  swallows  up  the  little  isms,  and 
Socialism  swallows  up  Abolition.  Socialism  long 
since  attained  the  point  of  the  circle  most  distant 
from  slavery,  and  is  now  rapidly  coming  round  to 
the  point  whence  it  started — that  is,  to  slavery. 
Mr.  Andrews,  Avho  is  no  humbug,  (except  in  so  far 
as  any  philosopher  is  a  humbug,)  Mr.  Andrews, 
who  is  probably  the  foremost  thinker  in  America, 
could,  if  he  would,  prove  to  the  Abolitionists  and 
Socialists,  that  after  a  furious  day's  drive,  like  that 
of  Toby  Lumpkin  and  his  mother,  they  are  just 
about  to  haul  up  at  the  horse  pond,  in  a  few  yards 
of  the  place  where  they  started  in  the  morning. 
The  Socialists,  Louis  Napoleon  included,  are  trying 
to  establish  slavery,  whilst  abusing  the  word. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        335 


CrixiPTER    XXXI. 

DEFICIENCY  OF  FOOD  IN  FREE  SOCIETY. 

Tlio  normal  state  of  free  society  is  a  state  of 
famine.  Agricultural  labor  is  the  most  arduous, 
least  respectable,  and  worst  paid  of  all  labor.  Na- 
ture and  philosophy  teach  all  who  can  to  avoid  and 
escape  from  it,  and  to  pursue  less  laborious,  more 
respectable,  and  more  lucrative  employments.  None 
work  in  the  field  who  can  help  it.  Hence  free  soci- 
ety is  in  great  measure  dependent  for  its  food  and 
clothing  on  slave  society.  Western  Europe  and 
New  England  get  their  cotton,  sugar,  and  much  of 
their  bread. and  meat  from  the  South,  from  Cuba, 
Russia,  Poland  and  Turkey.  After  all,  the  mass  of 
their  population  suiTers  continual  physical  want. 
McCulloch  informs  us  in  his  edition  of  Adam 
Smith,  "  that  the  better  sort  of  Irish  laborers  eat 
meat  once  a  month,  or  once  in  six  months ;  the  low- 
est order  never.  The  better  class  of  English  la- 
borers eat  meat  twice  or  three  times  a  week."  Now 
no  Southern  negro. would  believe  this  if  you  were 
to  swear  to  it.  Yet  it  is  a  very  favorable  account 
of  those  laborers.  The  Irish  rarely  eat  bread,  and 
the   English  peasantry  have  wholly  inadequate  al- 


336  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

lowance  of  it.  On  the  Continent,  the  peasantry 
generally  live  on  fruits,  nuts  and  olives,  and  other 
things,  "which  our  slaves  do  not  seek  as  food  at  all, 
but  as  mere  condiments  to  give  a  relish  to  their 
meat  and  bread.  Agriculture  is  the  proper  pursuit 
of  slaves,  to  be  superintended  and  directed,  how- 
ever, by  freemen.  Its  profits  are  inadequate  to  the 
support  of  separate  families  of  laborers,  especially 
of  v.hite  laborers  in  cold  climates,  whose  wants  are 
greater  than  those  of  negroes'  at  the  South.  The 
expenses  of  families  are  greatly  lessened  where 
slavery  associates  a  large  number  under  a  common 
head,  or  master,  and  their  labor  is  rendered  more 
efiicient  and  productive. 

This  is  the  great  idea  of  the  Socialists,  and  it  is 
a  truer  one  than  the  "  every-man-for-himself  "  doc- 
trine of  the  political  economists.  Free  society  is  in 
great  measure  fed  and  clothed  by  slave  society, 
which  it  pays  for  in  worthless  baubles,  fashionable 
trifles,  and  deleterious  luxuries  ;^without  which, 
slave  society  would  do  much  better.  Every  one 
should  study  the  census  of  the  Union,  in  order  to 
see  how  dependent  the  North-east  is  on  slave  labor, 
and  how  trifling  are  her  agricultural  products. 

The  profits  of  slave  fai'ming  enure  chiefly  to  the 
advantage  of  Western  Europe  and  our  North. 
Practical  men,  therefore,  at  the  North,  so  far  from 
going  to  work  to  abolish  slavery,  are  bringing  daily 
a  larger  supply  of  slaves  into  the  slave  market, 


SLAVES  WITHOUT    MASTERS.  337 

than  ever  ^vas  brought  before.  Add  tlie  Coolies  of 
Asia  and  apprentices  from  Africa  to  the  old  negro 
slave  trade,  and  the  annual  supply  of  new  slaves 
exceeds  hj  far  that  of  any  other  period. 

The  Abolitionists  Avill  probably  succeed  in  dis- 
solving the  Union,  in  involving  us  in  civil  and  fra- 
tricidal war,  and  in  cutting  oft"  the  North  from  its 
necessary  supply  of  food  and  clothing ;  but  they 
sliould  recollect  that  whilst  they  are  engaged  in  this 
labor  of  love,  Northern  and  English  merchants  are 
rapidly  extending  and  increasing  slavery,  by  open- 
ing daily  new  markets  for  the  purchase  and  sale  of 
Coolies,  apprentices  and  Africans. 

The  foreign  slave  trade  is  not  necessary  for  the 
supply  of  the  slave  markets.  The  increase  of  the 
present  slaves,  if  humanely  treated,  would  suffice  to 
meet  that  demand.  But  Africans  and  Coolies  cost 
less  than  the  rearing  of  slaves  in  America,  and  the 
trade  in  them,  whenever  carried  on,  induces  masters 
to  work  their  old  slaves  to  death  and  buy  new  ones 
from  abroad. 

The  foreign  slave  trade,  especially  the  Cooley  trade, 
is  the  most  inhuman  pursuit  in  which  man  ever  en- 
gaged. Equally  inhuman  to  the  victims  which  it 
imports,  and  to  the  old  slaves,  whose  treatment  and 
condition  it  renders  intolerably  cruel.  By  directing 
philanthropy  and  public  opinion  in  a  false  direction, 
the  Abolitionists  have  become  the  most  efficient 
propagandists  of  slavery  and  the  slave  trade.  And 
15 


338  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

slavery,  such  as  it  exists  in  pursuance  of  the  for- 
eign slave  trade,  shocks  our  sense  of  humanity 
quite  as  much  as  that  of  the  most  [sensitive  Abo- 
litionists. 

Since  writing  thus  far,  -we  met  Avith  the  following 
in  the  Charleston  Mercury : 

"  "Wheat  in  Massachusetts. — The  deficiency  in  the 
production  of  wheat  iu  INIassachusctts  alone,  in  1855,  for 
the  consumption  of  her  inhabitants,  was  3,915,550  bush- 
els; and  of  Indian  corn,  3,-120,G75  bushels,  (tcithout  al- 
loicing  any  thinj  for  the  consumption  of  corn  hy  cattle.) 

"In  1850,  the  deficiency  in  the  production  of  wheat 
in  all  the  New  England  States,  was  equal  to  1,691,502 
barrels  of  flour;  and  to  3,401,075  bushels  of  corn,  (with- 
out alloicing  any  thing  for  the  constimption  hy  cattle.') 

'' This  is  327,185  barrels  more  than  was  exported  of 
domestic  flour  from  all  of  the  United  States  to  foreign 
countries  during  the  year  ending  30th  June,  1855,  and 
87,000  more  barrels  than  was  exported  both  of  domestic 
and  foreign  flour  from  tlie  United  States  for  the  same 
period/' 

We  conclude,  from  our  examination  of  the  cen- 
sus, that  the  grain  and  potatoes  made  in  New  Eng- 
land would  about  feed  her  cattle,  horses,  hogs  and 
sheep — leaving  none  for  her  inhabitants.  We  late- 
ly compared  carefully  the  census  of  Massachusetts 
and  North  Carolina,  and  found,  in  round  numbers, 
that  according  to  population,  North  Carolina  pro- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  339 

duced  annually  ten  times  as  much  of  human  food  as 

Massachusetts, — but  that  Massachusetts  balanced 
the  account  by  producing  annually  ten  times  as 
many  paupers  and  criminals  as  North  Carolina. 
We  also  discover  that  the  Avant  of  food  in  the  one 
State  and  its  abundance  in  the  other,  tells  on  the 
duration  of  human  life.  The  mortality  in  Massa- 
chusetts is  nearly  double  that  in  North  Carolina. 
We  infer  that  there  is  ten  times  as  much  of  human 
happiness  in  North  Carolina  as  in  Massachusetts. 
The  census  gives  no  account  of  the  infidels  and  the 
isms — of  them  there  are  none  in  North  Carolina, 
and  Massachusetts  may  boast  that  she  rivals  Ger- 
many, France  and  Western  New  York  in  their 
production. 

Really,  it  is  suicidal  folly  in  New  England  to  talk 
of  disunion  and  setting  up  for  herself.  She  does 
not  possess  the  elements  of  separate  nationality. 
She  is  intelligent  and  wealthy ;  but  her  wealth  is 
cosmopolitan — her  poverty  indigenous.  Her  com- 
merce, her  manufactures,  and  moneyed  capital,  con- 
stitute her  wealth.  Disunion  would  make  these  use- 
less and  unprofitable  at  home,  and  they  would 
be  transferred  immediately  to  other  States  and 
Nations. 

North  Carolina  might  well  set  up  for  herself,  for 
she  can  produce  all  the  necessaries  and  comforts 
and  luxuries  of  life  within  herself,  and  has  Vir- 
ginia between  herself  and  danger  on  the  one  side, 


340  CANNIBALS    ALL  ;     OR, 

and  an  inaccessible  sea  coast  on  the  other.  But  we 
of  Virginia,  being  a  border  State,  would  be  badly 
situated  in  case  of  disunion,  and  mean  to  cling  to 
it  as  long  as  honor  permits.  Besides,  Virginia  loves 
her  nearest  sister,  Pennsylvania,  and  cannot  bear 
the  thought  of  parting  company  with  her. 

Ti'cmu  viverc  amcm! 
Tecum  obeam  lubensl 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.  341 


CHAPTER    XXXII. 

MAN    HAS    TROrERTY    IN    MAN! 

In  the  Liberator  of  the  19th  December,  we  ob- 
serve that  the  editor  narrows  down  the  slavery  con- 
test to  the  mere  question,  whether  "  Man  may 
rightfully  hold  property  in  man?  " 

We  think  we  can  dispose  of  this  objection  to  do- 
mestic slavery  in  a  very  few  words. 

Man  is  a  social  and  gregarious  animal,  and  all 
such  animals  hold  property  in  each  other.  Nature 
imposes  upon  them  slavery  as  a  law  and  necessity  of 
their  existence.  They  live  together  to  aid  each 
other,  and  are  slaves  under  Mr.  Garrison's  higher 
law.  Slavery  arises  under  the  higher  law,  and  is, 
and  ever  must  be,  coeval  and  coextensive  with  hu- 
man nature. 

We  will  enumerate  a  few  of  its  ten  thousand 
modifications. 

The  husband  has  a  legally  recognized  property 
in  his  wife's  services,  and  may  legally  control,  in 
some  measure,  her  personal  liberty.  She  is  his 
property  and  his  slave. 

The  wife  has  also  a  legally  recognized  property 
in  the  husband's  services.  He  is  her  property,  but 
not  her  slave. 


342  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

The  father  has  property  in  the  services  and  per- 
sons of  his  cliihlrcn  till  they  are  twenty-one  years 
of  age.     They  are  his  property  and  his  slaves. 

Children  have  property,  during  infancy,  in  the 
services  of  each  parent. 

Infant  negroes,  sick,  infirm  and  superannuated 
negroes,  hold  most  valuable  property  in  the  services 
and  capital  of  their  masters.  The  masters  hold  no 
property  in  such  slaves,  because,  for  the  time,  they 
are  of  no  value. 

Owners  and  captains  of  vessels  own  property  in 
the  services  of  sailors,  and  may  control  their  per- 
sonal liberty.  They  (the  sailors)  are  property,  and 
slaves  also. 

The  services  and  persons,  lives  and  liberty  of 
soldiers  and  of  officers,  belong  to  the  Government ; 
they  are,  Avhilst  in  service,  both  property  and 
slaves. 

Every  white  working  man,  be  he  clerk,  carpenter, 
mechanic,  printer,  common  laborer,  or  what  else, 
who  contracts  to  serve  for  a  term  of  days,  months, 
or  years,  is,  for  such  term,  the  property  of  his  em- 
ployer. He  is  not  a  slave,  like  the  wife,  child,  ap- 
prentice, sailor  or  soldier,  because,  although  the 
employer's  right  to  his  services  be  equally  perfect, 
his  remedy  to  enforce  such  right  is  very  different. 
In  the  one  case,  he  may  resort  to  force  to  compel 
compliance;  in  the  other,  he  is  driven  to  a  suit  for 
damages. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        343 

Again:  Every  capitalist  holds  property  in  his  fel- 
low men  to  the  extent  of  the  profits  of  his  capital, 
or  income.  The  only  income  possibly  resulting 
from  capital,  is  the  result  of  the  property  which 
capital  bestows  on  its  owners,  in  the  labor  of  other 
people.  In  our  first  three  chapters  we  attempt  to 
explain  this. 

All  civilized  society  recognizes,  and,  in  some 
measure,  performs  the  obligation  to  support  and 
provide  for  all  human  beings,  whether  natives  or 
foreigners,  who  are  unable  to  provide  for  them- 
selves.    Hence  poor-houses,  &c. 

Hence  all  men  hold  valuable  property,  actual  or 
contingent,  in  the  services  of  each  other. 

If,  Mr.  Garrison,  this  be  the  only  difficulty  to  be 
adjusted  between  North  and  South,  we  are  sure 
that  your  little  pet.  Disunion,  "  living  will  linger, 
and  lingering  will  die." 

When  Mr.  Andrews  and  you  have  quite  "ex- 
pelled human  nature,"  dissolved  and  disintegrated 
society,  and  reduced  mankind  to  separate,  indepen- 
dent, but  conflicting  monads,  or  human  atoms — 
then,  and  not  till  then,  will  you  establish  the  '  sove- 
reignty of  the  individual,'  and  destroy  the  prop- 
erty of  man  in  man. 


844  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 


CHAPTER    XXXIII. 

THE  "COUP  DE  GRACE"  TO  ABOLITION. 

The  Abolitionists  are  all  -willing  to  admit  that  free 
society  has  utterly  failed  in  Europe,  but  -will  assign 
two  reasons  for  that  failure — "Excess  of  popula- 
tion, and  want  of  equality  and  liberty." 

Were  the  population  of  England  doubled,  the 
labor  required  to  support  that  population  would  be 
lessened,  could  all  labor  and  expenses  be  sup- 
ported alike;  because  the  association  and  division 
of  labor  might  be  rendered  more  perfect,  and  the 
expenses  of  a  single  family,  or  single  individual, 
might  be  divided  among  and  borne  by  many.  The 
Socialists  and  Abolitionists  understand  this.  When 
one  family  has  to  support  its  own  school,  its  own 
mill,  its  own  mechanics,  its  OAvn  doctor,  parson,  &c., 
living  is  expensive;  but  where  these  and  other  ex- 
penses are  divided  among  many,  living  becomes 
cheap;  hence  it  is  far  less  laborious  to  live  in  a 
densely  settled  country  than  in  a  sparsely  settled 
one,  if  labor  and  expenses  can  be  equally  divided. 
The  soil  of  England  will  readily  support  double  its 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        345 

population,  if  its  products  be  not  wasted  in  luxury, 
in  feeding  deer,  and  game,  and  horses.  England 
has  not  attained  that  density  of  population  which 
enables  men  to  live  by  the  least  amount  of  labor. 
Iler  laboring  population  has  been  thinned  and  labor 
rendered  dearer  and  scarcer,  by  emigration,  of  late 
years,  to  America,  California  and  iVustralia — yet, 
in  the  winter  of  1854,  there  was  a  general  outbreak 
and  riot  of  her  operatives,  because  a  fall  in  prices 
occasioned  a  large  number  of  her  factories  to  stop 
work,  and  turn  their  hands  out  of  employment. 
This  happens  every  day  in  free  society,  from  the 
bankruptcy  of  employers,  or  from  the  glut  of 
markets  and  fall  of  prices.  We  will  add,  that  a 
meeting  of  the  working  men  of  New  York,  in  the 
Park,  asserted  that  there  were  50,000  working  men 
and  women,  in  that  city,  out  of  employment  last 
winter. 

The  competitive  system  (so  injurious  to  the  labor- 
ing class)  is  carried  out  with  less  exception  or 
restriction  in  America  than  in  Europe.  Hence, 
considering  the  sparseness  of  our  population,  the 
laboring  class  are  worse  off  in  New  York,  Philadel- 
phia and  Boston,  than  in  London,  Manchester  or 
Paris.  And  this  begets  more  Socialists  in  the 
higher  classes,  and  more  mobs,  riots  and  trade- 
unions,  with  the  laborers,  than  in  Europe. 

Finally,  if  It  be  excess  of  numbers,  or  want  of 
liberty,  that  occasions  the  failure  of  free  society, 


346  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

why  are  our  Abolitionists  and  Socialists  so  Lot  and 
so  active  in  upsetting  and  re-organizing  society? 
They  have  pronounced,  with  entire  unanimity,  that 
free  society  is  intolerable,  whether  a  country  be 
densely  or  sparsely  settled. 

The  Abolitionists  boast,  that  lands  are  dearer 
and  labor  cheaper  in  free  than  in  slave  society. 
Either  proposition  contains  the  admission  that  free 
laborers  work  more  for  others  and  less  for  them- 
selves than  slaves — in  effect,  that  they  are  less  free 
than  slaves.  The  profits  of  land  arc  what  the 
land-owner  appropriates  of  the  results  of  work  of 
the  laborer.  AVhere  he  appropriates  most,  and 
leaves  the  laborer  least,  there  lands  are  dearest, 
labor  cheapest,  and  laborers  least  free.  In  Europe, 
lands  sell  much  higher  than  at  the  North;  hence, 
laborers  arc  less  free  in  fact  than  at  the  North.  In 
the  North  they  sell  higher  than  in  the  South,  be- 
cause the  slaves  consume  more  of  the  results  of 
their  own  labor  than  laborers  at  the  North,  and 
leave  less  profit  to  the  land-owner.  The  high  price 
of  land  is,  in  the  general,  an  unerring  indication  of 
the  poverty  and  actual  slavery  of  the  laboring  class. 
Its  low  price,  equally  proves  that  the  laborers, 
whether  called  slaves  or  freemen,  work  more  for 
themselves,  and  less  for  the  land-owners,  than  where 
lands  are  dear.  In  settled  countries,  where  all  the 
lands  are  appropriated,  this  theory  is  undeniable 
and  irrefutable. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  347 

As  this  is  a  short  chapter,  wo  take  the  opportu- 
nity to  apologize  and  account  for  our  discursive, 
immethodical  and  unartistic  manner. 

In  the  first  place,  the  charsjcter  of  the  enemy 
Tve  have  to  contend  -with  prevents  anything  like 
regular  warfare.  They  are  divided  into  hundreds 
of  little  guerrilla  hands  of  isms,  each  having  its 
peculiar  partizan  tactics,  and  we  are  compelled  to 
vary  our  mode  of  attack  from  regular  cannonade  to 
bush-fio'htino;,  to  suit  the  occasion. 

Again,  we  practiced  as  a  jury  lawyer  for  twenty- 
five  years,  and  thereby  acquired  an  inveterate  habit 
of  cumulation  and  iteration,  and  of  various  argu- 
ment and  illustration.  But,  at  the  same  time,  we 
learned  how  "to  make  out  our  case,"  and  to  know 
when  it  is  "made  out."  The  lawyer  who  observed 
the  Unities  in  an  argument  before  a  jury  would  be 
sure  to  lose  his  cause;  and  now  the  world  is  our 
jury,  who  are  going  to  bring  in  a  verdict  against 
free  society  of  "guilty." 

We  admire  not  the  pellucid  rivulet,  that  murmurs 
and  meanders,  in  cramped  and  artificial  current, 
through  the  park  and  gardens  of  the  nobleman  ; 
but  we  do  admire  the  flooded  and  swollen  Missis- 
sippi, whose  turbid  waters,  in  their  majestic  course, 
sweep  along  upon  their  bosom,  with  equal  compo- 
sure, the  occupants  of  the  hen-roost  and  the  poultry 
yard,  the  flocks,  the  herds,  the  crops,  the  uprooted 
forest,  and  the  residences  of  man.    The  Exhaustive, 


348  CANNIBALS   ALL;    Oil, 

not  the  Artistic,  is  what  •svc  wouhl  aspire  to.  And 
yet,  the  Exhaustive  may  be  the  liighest  art  of  ar- 
gument. The  best  mode,  we  think,  of  writing,  is 
that  in  which  facts,  and  argument,  and  rhetoric, 
and  wit,  and  sarcasm,  succeed  each  other  with  rapid 
iteration. 

Intonuerc  poli,  ct  crcbris  niicat  ignibus  tether  ! 

Again,  Artistic  execution  is  un-English.  It 
neither  suits  tlieir  minds  nor  their  tastes.  Discur- 
siveness and  prurient  exuberancy  of  thought  and 
suggestion,  they  often  possess,  but  always  fail  when 
they  attempt  a  literary  or  other  work  of  Art.  In- 
deed, we  have  a  strong  suspicion  tliat  Art  Avent  out 
of  the  world  about  the  time  the  Baconian  Philoso- 
phy came  in. 

A  continuous  argument,  Avithout  pause  or  break, 
on  a  subject  profoundly  metaphysical,  equally  fa- 
tigues the  writer  and  the  reader.  Nobody  likes  it, 
and  very  few  read  it.  "Desipere  in  loco"  is  not 
only  a  very  agreeable  maxim  to  the  author,  but  a 
very  wise  and  prudent  one. 

Lastly.  Like  Porthos,  when  "we  have  an  idea," 
we  are  at  once  seized  with  a  feverish  anxiety  to 
communicate  it,  and  we  think  it  better  to  break  in 
on  the  regular  thread  of  our  discourse,  and  do  so 
at  once,  than  to  spoil  our  Avholc  discourse  by  having 
our  minds  occupied  with  two  subjects  at  a  time. 

Another  idea  strikes  us.     As  yet  we  hardly  as- 


SLAVES   WITHOUT    MASTERS.  349 

pire  to  the  dignity  of  authorship.  Wc  indulge  in 
abandon,  because,  as  a  writer,  we  have  no  reputation 
to  jeopard  or  to  lose.  But,  should  this  book  take, 
we  will  mount  the  antithetical  stilts  of  auctorial  dig- 
nity— write  a  book  as  stale  and  dry  as  "the  re- 
mainder biscuit  after  a  long  voyage,"  and  as  free 
from  originality,  wit,  thought  or  suggestiveness,  as 
the  Queen's  Speech,  the  President's  Message,  or  a 
debate  in  the  United  States  Senate.  We  do  not  as 
yet  bore  the  world  with  "respectable  stupidity," 
because  our  position  does  not  authorize  it. 


350  CANNIBALS   ALL:    OR, 


CHAPTER    XXXIV. 

NATIONAL  WEALTH,  INDIVIDUAL  WEALTH,  LUXURY 
AND  ECONOMY. 

It  is  a  common  theory  with  political  economists, 
that  national  wealth  is  hut  the  sum  of  individual 
wealth,  and  that  as  individual  wealth  increases,  na- 
tional wealth  increases,  2^(iri  passu. 

We  think  this  theory  false  and  pernicious,  and 
the  more  so  because  it  is  plausible. 

All  profit-bearing  possessions  or  capital,  tend  to 
exonerate  their  owners  from  labor,  and  to  throw 
the  labor  that  supports  society  on  a  part  only  of  its 
members.  Now,  as  almost  all  wealth  is  the  pro- 
duct of  labor,  this  diminution  of  labor  diminishes 
wealth,  or,  at  least,  increases  poverty,  by  placing 
heavier  burdens  on  the  laboring  class. 

This,  however,  is  a  very  small  part  of  the  evil 
effects  of  individual  wealth.  Society  requires  it  of 
the  rich  to  live  according  to  their  income,  to  fare 
sumptuously,  to  have  costly  dress,  furniture,  equip- 
age, houses,  &c.,  and  to  keep  many  servants. 

Their  incomes  are  spent  in  luxuries,  and  thousands 
of  laborers  are  taken  off  from  the  production  of 
necessaries  to  produce  those  luxuries,  or  to  Avait  on 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        351 

their  ovrncrs.  Thus,  the  burden  of  the  support  of 
society,  so  far  as  the  ordinary  comforts  and  neces- 
saries of  life  are  concerned,  are  thrown  on  fewer  and 
fewer,  as  private  wealth  and  luxury  increase.  It 
requires  a  thousand  pauper  laborers  to  sustain  one 
millionaire,  and  without  them  his  capital  will  pro- 
duce no  profit.  This  accounts  for  the  great  num- 
bers and  exccssiv^e  poverty  of  the  mass  in  England. 
Half  the  boasted  capital  of  England,  probably  two- 
thirds  of  it,  is  but  a  mortgage  of  the  bones  and 
sinews  of  the  laborers,  now  and  forever,  to  the 
capitalists.  Tlie  national  debt,  stocks  of  all  kinds, 
money  at  interest,  and  indeed  all  debts,  represent 
this  sort  of  private  wealth,  which  is  national 
poverty. 

Sumptuous  houses,  parks,  and  all  establishments 
that  are  costly  to  sustain  and  keep  up,  and  do  not 
facilitate,  but  check  the  production  of  necessaries, 
are  also  part  of  private  wealth,  and  of  national 
poverty.  Four-fifths  of  the  private  wealth  of  Eng- 
land, and  half  of  that  of  our  Northeast,  is  a  severe 
tax  on  labor,  and  a  constant  preventive  of  the  ac- 
cumulation of  national  wealth. 

Private  wealth  at  the  South  consists  chiefly  in 
negro  laborers,  and  improvements  of  land,  that  in- 
crease its  productive  capacities.  Fine  enclosures, 
improved  stock,  good  granaries,  and  machines  and 
implements  for  farming,  comfortable  negro  cabins, 
good  orchards,  &c.,  are  as  strictly  a  part  of  nation- 


352  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

al,  as  of  individual  Avoaltli.  Not  so  •\vitli  the  costly 
private  dwellings  in  our  Northern  cities.  The  ex- 
pense of  building,  of  repairing,  of  furnishing,  and 
of  keeping  sei'vants  for  their  owners  or  tenants,  is 
a  constant  drawback  from  productive  industry,  in- 
creases the  burdens  of  the  laboring  poor,  and  di- 
minishes national  wealth.  The  poverty-stricken 
fields  of  New  England  are  the  necessary  conse- 
quence of  the  luxurious  expenditure  in  her  cities. 
Yet  that  luxury  is  no  part  of  national  wealth,  but  a 
constant  tax  on  it,  whilst  improved  farms  constitute 
almost  three-fourths  of  all  her  real  wealth,  for 
they  feed  and  clothe  mankind. 

This  is  a  most  interesting  subject;  one  which  we 
have  not  mastered,  or,  if  we  had,  this  work  on 
which  Ave  are  engaged  is  not  the  proper  one  for  its 
full  discussion  and  exposition.  We  merely  throw 
out  a  few  suggestions  for  the  consideration  of  the 
thinking  and  ingenuous.  If  we  arc  right,  luxury  is 
the  greatest  sin  against  society ;  economy  and  in- 
dustry, the  chiefest  of  social  virtues. 


SLAVES  WITnOUT  MASTERS.        353 


CHAPTER    XXXV. 

GOVERNMENT  A  THING  OF  FORCE,  NOT  OF  CONSENT. 

We  do  not  agree  with  the  authors  of  the  De- 
claration of  Independence,  that  governments  "  de- 
rive their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the 
governed."  The  women,  the  chiklren,  the  negroes, 
and  but  few  of  the  non-property  hoklers  were  con- 
sulted, or  consented  to  the  Revolution,  or  the  gov- 
ernments that  ensued  from  its  success.  As  to  these, 
the  new  governments  were  self-elected  despotisms, 
and  the  governing  class  self-elected  despots.  Those 
governments  originated  in  force,  and  have  been 
continued  by  force.  All  governments  must  origin- 
ate in  force,  and  be  continued  by  force.  The  very 
term,  government,  implies  that  it  is  carried  on 
against  the  consent  of  the  governed.  Fathers  do 
not  derive  their  authority,  as  heads  of  families, 
from  the  consent  of  wife  and  children,  nor  do  they 
govern  their  families  by  their  consent.  They  never 
take  the  vote  of  the  family  as  to  the  labors  to  be 
performed,  the  moneys  to  be  expended,  or  as  to 
anything  else.  Masters  dare  not  take  the  vote  of 
slaves,  as  to  their  government.  If  they  did,  con- 
stant holiday,  dissipation  and  extravagance  would 


354  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

be  the  result.  Captains  of  ships  are  not  appointed 
by  the  consent  of  the  crew,  and  never  take  their 
vote,  even  in  "doubling  Cape  Horn."  If  they  did, 
the  crew  would  generally  vote  to  get  drunk,  and 
the  ship  would  never  weather  the  cape.  Not  even 
in  the  most  democratic  countries  arc  soldiers  gov- 
erned by  their  consent,  nor  is  their  vote  taken  on 
the  eve  of  battle.  They  have  some  how  lost  (or 
never  had)  the  "inalienable  rights  of  life,  liberty 
and  the  pursuit  of  happiness ;"  and,  whether  Ameri- 
cans or  Russians,  are  forced  into  battle,  without 
and  often  against  their  consent.  The  ancient  re- 
publics were  governed  by  a  small  class  of  adult 
male  citizens,  who  assumed  and  exercised  the  gov- 
ernment, without  the  consent  of  the  governed.  Tiie 
South  is  governed  just  as  those  ancient  republics 
were.  In  the  county  in  which  we  live,  there  are 
eighteen  thousand  souls,  and  only  twelve  hundred 
voters.  But  we  twelve  hundred,  the  governors, 
never  asked  and  never  intend  to  ask  the  consent  of 
the  sixteen  thousand  eight  hundred  whom  we  gov- 
ern. Were  we  to  do  so,  we  should  soon  have  an 
"organized  anarchy."  The  governments  of  Eu- 
rope could  not  exist  a  week  without  the  positive 
force  of  standing  armies. 

They  are  all  governments  of  force,  not  of  consent. 
Even  in  our  North,  the  women,  children,  and  free 
negroes,  constitute  four-fifths  of  the  population;  and 
they  are  all  governed  without  their  consent.     But 


SLAVES  WITUOUT  MASTERS.        355 

they  mean  to  correct  this  gross  and  glaring  iniquity 
at  the  North,  They  hohl  that  all  men,  women,  and 
negroes,  and  smart  children,  are  equals,  and  entitled 
to  equal  rights.  The  widows  and  free  negroes  be- 
gin to  vote  in  some  of  those  States,  and  they  will 
have  to  let  all  colors  and  sexes  and  ages  vote  soon, 
or  give  up  the  glorious  principles  of  human  equality 
and  universal  emancipation. 

The  experiment  which  they  will  make,  we  fear, 
is  absurd  in  theory,  and  the  symptoms  of  approach- 
ing anarchy  and  agrarianism  among  them,  leave  no 
doubt  that  its  practical  operation  will  be  no  better 
than  its  theory.  Anti-rentism,  "  vote-myself-a- 
farm"  ism,  and  all  the  other  isms,  are  but  the 
spattering  drops  that  precede  a  social  deluge. 

Abolition  ultimates  in  "Consent  Government;" 
Consent  Government  in  Anarchy,  Free  Love,  Agra- 
rianism, &c.,  &c.,  and  "Self-elected  despotism," 
winds  up  the  play. 

If  the  interests  of  the  governors,  or  governing 
class,  be  not  conservative,  they  certainly  will  not 
conserve  institutions  injurious  to  their  interests. 
There  never  was  and  never  can  be  an  old  society, 
in  which  the  immediate  interests  of  a  majority  of 
human  souls  do  not  conflict  with  all  established 
order,  all  right  of  jDroperty,  and  all  existing  institu- 
tions. Immediate  interest  is  all  the  mass  look  to ; 
and  they  would  be  sure  to  revolutionize  govern- 
ment, as  often  as  the  situation  of  the  majority  was 


356  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

•worse  than  that  of  tlie  minority.  Divide  all  pro- 
perty to-day,  and  a  year  hence  the  inequalities  of 
property  would  provoke  a  re-division. 

In  the  South,  the  interest  of  the  governing  class 
is  eminently  conservative,  and  the  South  is  fast 
becoming  the  most  conservative  of  nations. 

Already,  at  the  North,  government  vibrates  and 
oscillates  between  liudicalism  and  Conservatism; 
at  present,  lladicalism  or  Black  llcpublicanism  is 
in  the  ascendant. 

The  numl)cr  of  paupers  is  rapidly  increasing ; 
radical  and  agrarian  doctrines  are  spreading ;  the 
women  and  the  children,  and  the  negroes,  will  soon 
be  let  in  to  vote ;  and  then  they  will  try  the  ex- 
periment of  ''Consent  Government  and  Constituted 
Anarchy." 

It  is  falsely  said,  that  revolutions  never  go  back- 
wards. They  always  go  backwards,  and  generally 
farther  back  tlian  whore  they  started.  The  Social 
Revolution  now  going  on  at  the  North,  must  some 
day  go  backwards.  Shall  it  do  so  now,  ere  it  has 
perpetrated  an  infinitude  of  mischief,  shed  oceans 
of  blood,  and  occasioned  endless  human  misery ;  or 
will  the  Conservatives  of  the  North  let  it  run  the 
length  of  its  leather,  inflict  all  these  evils,  and  then 
rectify  itself  by  issuing  into  military  despotism  ? 
We  think  that  by  a  kind  of  alliance,  offensive  and 
defensive,  with  the  South,  Northern  Conservatism 
may  now  arrest  and  turn  back  the  tide  of  Radical- 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        357 

ism  and  Agrarianism.  "Wc  will  not  presume  to 
point  out  the  Avliole  means  and  modus  operandi. 
Tliej  on  the  field  of  action  will  best  see  what  is  ne- 
cessary to  be  done. 

Whilst  we  hold  that  all  government  is  a  matter 
of  force,  we  yet  think  the  governing  class  should 
be  numerous  enough  to  understand,  and  so  situated 
as  to  represent  fairly,  all  interests.  The  Greek  and 
Roman  masters  were  thus  situated;  so  were  the  old 
Barons  of  England,  and  so  are  the  white  citizens 
of  the  South.  If  not  all  masters,  like  Greek  and 
Roman  citizens,  they  all  belong  to  the  master  race, 
have  exclusive  rights  and  privileges  of  citizenship, 
and  an  interest  not  to  see  this  right  of  citizenship 
extended,  ilisturbcd,  and  rendered  worthless  and 
contemptible. 

Whilst  the  governments  of  Europe  are  more  ob- 
viously kept  alive  and  conducted  by  force  than  at 
any  other  period,  yet  are  they  all,  from  necessity, 
watchful  and  regardful  of  Public  Opinion.  Opinion 
now  rules  the  world,  but  not  as  expressed  through 
the  ballot-box.  Governments  become  more  popular 
as  they  become  more  forcible.  -A  large  governing 
class  is  not  apt  to  mistake  or  disregard  opinion ; 
and,  therefore.  Republican  institutions  are  best 
adapted  to  the  times.  Under  Monarchical  forms, 
the  governments  of  Europe  are  daily  becoming 
more  Republican.  Tlie  fatal  error  committed  in 
Western  Europe  is,  the  wielding  of  government  by 


358  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

a  class  who  govern,  but  do  not  represent,  the 
masses.  Their  interests  and  those  of  tlie  masses 
are  antagonistic,  -whilst  those  of  masters  and  slaves 
arc  identical. 

Looking  to  theory,  to  the  examples  of  the  An- 
cient Republics,  and  to  England  under  the  Plan- 
tagenets,  Ave  shall  find  that  Southern  institutions 
are  far  the  best  now  existing  in  the  world. 

We  think  speculations  as  to  constructing  govern- 
ments are  little  ■worth;  for  all  government  is  the 
gradual  accretion  of  Nature,  time  and  circumstances. 
Yet  these  theories  have  occurred  to  us,  and,  as  they 
are  conservative,  we  will  suggest  them.  In  slave- 
holding  countries  all  freemen  should  vote  and  gov- 
ern, because  their  interests  are  conservative.  In 
free  states,  the  government  should  bo  in  the  hands 
of  the  land-owners,  who  are  also  conservative.  A 
system  of  primogeniture,  and  entails  of  small  par- 
cels of  land,  might,  in  a  great  measure,  identify 
the  interests  of  all ;  or,  at  least,  those  who  held  no 
lands  would  generally  be  the  children  and  kinsmen 
of  those  who  did,  and  be  taken  care  of  by  them. 
The  frequent  accumulation  of  large  fortunes,  and 
consequent  pauperism  of  the  masses,  is  the  greatest 
evil  of  modern  society.  Would  not  small  entails 
prevent  this?  All  cannot  own  lands,  but  as  many 
should  own  them  as  is  consistent  with  good  farm- 
ing and  advanced  civilization.  The  social  insti- 
tutions of   the  Jews,  as  established  by  Moses  and 


SLAVES   AVITHOUT   MASTERS.  359 

Joshua,  most  nearly  fulfill  our  ideas  of  perfect  gov- 
ernment. 

A  word,  at  parting,  to  Northern  Conservatives. 
A  like  danger  threatens  North  and  South,  proceed- 
ing from  the  same  source.  Abolitionism  is  maturing 
what  Political  Economy  began.  With  inexorable 
sequence  "Let  Alone"  is  made  to  usher  in  No- 
Govcrnment.  North  and  South  our  danger  is  the 
same,  and  our  remedies,  though  differing  in  degree, 
must  in  character  be  the  same.  "Let  Alone"  must 
be  repudiated,  if  we  would  have  any  Government. 
We  must,  in  all  sections,  act  upon  the  principle 
that  the  world  is  "too  little  governed."  You  of 
the  North  need  not  institute  negro  slavery ;  far  less 
reduce  white  men  to  the  state  of  negro  slavery. 
But  the  masses  require  more  of  protection,  and  the 
masses  and  philosophers  equally  require  more  of 
control.  Leave  it  to  time  and  circumstances  to 
suggest  the  necessary  legislation ;  but,  rely  upon  it, 
"Anarchy,  plus  the  street  constable,"  wont  answer 
any  longer.  The  Vigilance  Committee  of  Califor- 
nia is  but  a  mob,  rendered  necessary  by  the  inade- 
quacy of  the  regular  government.  It  is  the  "vis 
mcdicatrix  naturce,"  vainly  attempting  to  discharge 
the  office  of  physician.  That  country  is  "too  little 
governed,"  where  the  best  and  most  conservative 
citizens  have  to  resolve  themselves  into  mobs  and 
vigilance  committees  to  protect  rights  which  gov- 
ernment should,  but  docs  not,  protect. 


360  CANNIBALS    ALL  1    OR 


The  clement  of  force  exists  probably  in  too  small 
a  degree  in  our  Federal  Government.  It  has 
neither  territory  nor  subjects.  Kansas  is  better  off; 
for  she  has  a  few  citizens  and  a  large  and  fertile 
territory.  She  is  backing  the  Government  out,  if 
not  ■whipping  her.  jNIassachusetts,  too,  has  nullified 
her  hiAvs.  Utah  contemns  her  authority,  and  the 
Vigilance  Committee  of  California  sets  her  at  suc- 
cessful defiance.  She  is  an  attempt  at  a  paper  eon- 
sent  government,  without  territory  or  citizens. 
Considered  and  treated  as  a  league  or  treaty  be- 
tween separate  States  or  Nations,  she  may  3'et  have 
a  long  and  useful  existence ;  for  then  those  Nations 
or  States,  seeing  that  she  has  no  means  of  self- 
enforcement,  self-support,  or  self-conservation,  may, 
for  their  mutual  interests,  combine  to  sustain  and 
defend  her.  Heretofore,  domestic  weakness  and 
danger  from  foreign  foes  has  combined  the  States 
in  sustaining  the  Union.  Hereafter,  the  great  ad- 
vantages of  friendly  and  mutual  intercourse,  trade 
and  exchanges,  may  continue  to  produce  a  like  re- 
sult. But  the  prospects  arc  alarming,  and  it  is  well 
that  all  patriots  should  know  that  the  Union  has 
little  })Ower  to  sustain  and  perpetuate  itself. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  force  that  occur  to  us 
will    sustain    a    government.      First,    "inside    ne- 
^pessity,"   such  as  slaver}",   that   occasions  a  few  to 
usurp  power,  and  to  hold  it  forcibly,  without  con- 
sulting the  many;    secondly,  the  force  of  foreign 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        361 

pressure  or  aggression,  Tvliich  combines  men  and 
States  together  for  common  defence ;  and  thirdly, 
the  inherent  force  of  a  prescriptive  or  usurpative 
government,  which  sustains  itself  by  standing  ar- 
mies. Such  are  all  the  governments  of  Western 
Europe.  Not  one  of  them  could  exist  forty-eight 
hours,  but  for  the  standing  armies.  These  stand- 
ing armies  became  necessary  and  grew  up  as  slavery 
disappeared.  The  old  Barons  kept  the  Canaille, 
the  Proletariat,  the  Sans  Culottes,  the  Nomadic 
Beggars,  in  order,  by  lashing  their  backs  and  sup- 
plying their  wants.  They  must  be  fed  and  kept  at 
work.  Modern  society  tries  to  effect  this  (but  in 
vain)  by  moral  suasion  and  standing  armies.  Riots, 
mobs,  strikes  and  revolutions  are  daily  occurring. 
The  mass  of  mankind  cannot  be  governed  by  Law. 
More  of  despotic  discretion,  and  less  of  Law,  is 
what  the  world  wants.  We  take  our  leave  by  say- 
ing, "There  is  too  much  of  Law  and  too  little 
OF  Government  in  this  world." 

Physical  force,  not  moral  suasion,  governs  the 
world.  The  negro  sees  the  driver's  lash,  becomes 
accustomed  to  obedient,  cheerful  industry,  and  is 
not  aware  that  the  lash  is  the  force  that  impels  him. 
The  free  citizen  fulfills,  "con  amore,"  his  round  of 
social,  political  and  domestic  duties,  and  never 
dreams  that  the  Law,  with  its  fines  and  jails,  peni- 
tentiaries and  halters,  or  Public  Opinion,  with  its 
ostracism,  its  mobs,  and  its  tar  and  feathers,  help 
16 


362  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

to  keep  liiin  revolving  in  liis  orbit.  Yet,  remove 
these  physical  forees,  and  how  many  good  citizens 
Avoukl  shoot,  like  fiery  comets,  from  their  spheres, 
and  disturb  society  "vvith  their  eccentricities  and 
their  crimes. 

Government  is  the  life  of  a  nation,  and  as  no  one 
can  foresee  the  various  future  circumstances  of  so- 
cial, any  more  than  of  individual  life,  it  is  absurd 
to  define  on  paper,  at  the  birth  of  either  the  nation 
or  individual,  Avhat  they  shall  do  and  what  not  do. 
Broad  construction  of  constitutions  is  as  good  as  no 
constitution,  for  it  leaves  the  nation  to  adapt  itself 
to  circumstances;  but  strict  construction  will  de- 
stroy any  nation,  for  action  is  necessary  to  national 
conservation,  and  constitution-makers  cannot  fore- 
see what  action  will  be  necessary.  If  individual 
or  social  life  were  passed  in  mere  passivity,  consti- 
tutions might  answer.  Not  in  a  changing  and 
active  Avorld.  Louisiana,  Florida  and  Texas  would 
have  been  denied  to  the  South  under  strict  con- 
struction, and  she  would  have  been  ruined.  A 
constitution,  strictly  construed,  is  absolutely  incon- 
sistent with  permanent  national  existence. 


4 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        363 


CHAPTER    XXXVI, 

WARNING     TO     THE     NORTH. 

Banquo —  But  'tis  strauge: 

And  oftentimc.-!,  to  win  us  to  our  harm, 
Tlie  instruments  of  darkness  tell  us  truths ; 
Win  us  with  honest  triiies,  to  betray  us 
lu  deepest  consequences.  Macbeth. 

The  reader  must  have  remarked  our  propensity 
of  putting  scraps  of  poetry  at  the  head  of  our 
chapters,  or  of  interweaving  them  with  the  text. 
It  answers  as  a  sort  of  chorus  or  refrain,  and,  when 
skillfully  handled,  has  as  fine  an  effect  as  the  fiddle 
at  a  feast,  or  the  brass  band  on  the  eve  of  an  en- 
gagement. It  nerves  the  author  for  greater  effort, 
and  inspires  the  reader  with  resolution  to  follow 
him  in  his  most  profound  ratiocinations  and  airiest 
speculations.  We  learnt  it  from  "  our  Masters  in 
the  art  of  war"  wlien  we  carried  their  camp  and 
their  Avhole  park  of  artillery,  (which  we  are  now 
usino;  with  such  murderous  effect  aiT'iinst  their  own 
ranks.)  "We  also  captured  their  camp  equipage, 
books  of  military  strategy,  &c.  In  them  we  found 
rules  laid  down  for  the  famous  songs,  which  are  so 
harmoniously  blended  with  the  speeches  at  all  Infi- 
del and  Abolition  conventions,  and  Women's  Rights 


364  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

and  Free  Love  assemblages.  They  are  intended  to 
inspire  enthusiasm,  confirm  conviction,  and  to 
"screw  the  courage  to  the  sticking  point."  Be- 
sides, sometimes  they  answer  admirably  the  oppo- 
site purpose  of  a  sedative.  Often,  when  Sister 
This  One  has,  by  her  imprudent  speech,  outraged 
decency,  propriety,  religion  and  morality,  and 
drawn  down  upon  her  head  hisses  and  cries  of 
"Turn  her  out!  Turn  her  out!"  Brother  That 
One  bursts  forth  in  "  strains  of  sweetest  melody," 
and  like  another  Orpheus  quells  and  quiets  another 
hell.  Not  that  we  intend  by  any  means  to  inti- 
mate that  this  musical  brother  would  play  Orpheus 
throughout,  and  take  as  long  and  perilous  a  trip  to 
rescue  his  sister  as  Orpheus  did  for  Eurydice.  On 
the  contrary,  we  suspect  in  such  contingency  he 
would  pray  to  Pluto  to  double  bar  the  gates,  and 
bribe  Cerberus  to  keep  closer  watch.  We  derive 
this  impression  from  the  triangular  correspondence 
of  Greeley,  Andrews  and  James,  entitled  "Love, 
Marriage  and  Divorce  ;  "  and  from  the  actings  and 
doings  of  the  courts  and  legislature  of  Massachu- 
setts— who,  from  the  number  of  the  divorces  they 
grant,  Ave  should  think  could  hardly  find  time  to 
send  Iliss  on  a  visit  of  purification  to  the  Convents. 
Now  it  may  be,  that  sometimes,  when  we  "  have 
gone  it  rather  strong  "  (as  we  are  very  apt  to  do,) 
and  ofl'ended  the  reader,  our  scraps  of  poetry  may 
answer  the  purpose   of   the   Abolition    songs,  and 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        365 

soothe  and  propitiate  him.  Besides,  they  afford  a 
sort  of  interlude  or  by-play,  like  that  of  Sancho 
where  he  slipped  off  from  the  flying  horse,  Clavi- 
leno,  just  as  he  and  the  Don  had  reached  the  con- 
stellation of  the  Goat,  and  went  to  playing  with  the 
little  goats  to  relieve  the  giddiness  of  his  head.  I 
am  sure,  when  we  have,  as  we  often  do,  mounted 
with  our  reader  into  the  highest  regions  of  meta- 
physics, that  his  head  becomes  a  little  giddy,  (at 
least  ours  does,)  and  that  he  is  thankful  for  a  little 
poetry  or  a  turn  at  play  with  our  Abolition  Goats. 

"Goats,  indeed!"  quoth  Mr.  G ,  "Lions,  you 

had  better  say."  Well,  be  it  lions!  We  are  no 
more  afraid  of  you  than  if  you  were  lambs ;  and 
you  will  no  sooner  dare  to  attack  us  than  you  did 
the  Knight  of  La  Mancha  when  he  vainly  chal- 
lenged you  to  mortal  combat. 

Let  not  the  reader  suppose  that  we  either  emulate 
the  chivalry  of  the  Don  or  the  wisdom  of  his  Squire. 
A  Northern  clime  has  congealed  the  courage  of  our 
lions  and  they  are  afraid  of  the  "  paper  bullets  of  the 
brain ;"  yet  they  are  vastly  fond  of  shooting  them  at 
others,  provided  they  are  sure  the  shot  will  not  be 
returned. 

As  for  Sancho,  we  think  him  the  wisest  man  we  ever 
read  after,  except  Solomon.  Indeed,  in  the  world  of 
Fiction,  all  the  wisdom  issues  from  the  mouths  of  fools 
— as  witness  Shakspeare's  Falstaff  and  his  fools. 
There  is  at  least  vraisemblance  in  all  this ;  for,  as  in 


366  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

tlie  Real  world,  the  philosophers  (e.g.  our  Masters 
in  the  art  of  war)  have  monopolized  all  the  folly, — 
where  so  likely  to  find  the  wisdom  as  among  the  fools  ? 

We  fearour  "Little  Cannibals"  are  growino;  im- 
patient,  and  may  be,  a  little  jealous  of  our  seeming 
preference  for  our  goats.  They  are  young  yet  and 
require  nursing.  But  they  are  young  llerculeses, 
born  with  teeth,  and  if  any  Abolition  serpents  at- 
tempt to  strangle  them  in  the  cradle,  they'll  be  apt 
to  get  the  worst  of  it.  The  danger  is,  however, 
that  the  Abolitionists  Avill  steal  and  adopt  them — for 
they  are  vastly  fond  of  young  cannibals,  and  em- 
ploy much  of  their  time  in  sewing  and  knitting  and 
getting  up  subscriptions,  to  send  shirts  and  trowsers 
to  the  little  fellows  aAvay  over  in  Africa,  who  as  in- 
dignantly repel  them  as  old  King  Lear  did  when 
he  stripped  in  the  storm  and  resolved  to  be  his 
"unsophisticated  self." 

Now,  seeing  that  the  Abolitionists  are  so  devoted 
to  the  uncouth,  dirty,  naked  little  cannibals  of  Af- 
rica, haven't  we  good  reason  to  fear  that  they  will 
run  away  with  and  adopt  ours,  when  they  come 
forth  neatly  dressed  in  black  muslin  and  all  shining 
with  gold  from  the  master  hands  of  Morris  and 
Wynne?  They  will  be  sure  at  least  to  captivate 
the  hearts  of  the  strong-minded  ladies,  and  if  they 
will  treat  them  well  in  infancy,  we  don't  know  but 
what,  if  they  will  Avait  till  they  grow  up,  we  may 
spare  them   a  husband  or  two  from  the  number. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        367 

Mr.  Morris  has  promised  they  shall  be  black  as 
Erebus  -without,  and  white  as  "driven  snow"  within. 

If  they  can  get  over  the  trying  time  of  infancy 
— if  the  critics  don't  smother  them  in  the  cradle, 
the  boys  will  make  their  own  way  in  the  world,  and 
get  a  name  famous  as  Toussaint  or  Dessalines. 

To  be  candid  with  the  reader,  we  have  learned 
lately  that  the  physique  of  a  book  is  quite  as  im- 
portant as  its  metaphysique — the  outside  as  the  in- 
side. Figure,  size,  jDroportion,  are  all  to  be  con- 
sulted: for  books  are  now  used  quite  as  much  for 
centre  table  ornaments  as  for  reading.  We  have  a 
marble  one  on  our  centre  table  that  answers  the 
former  purpose  admirably,  because  nobody  can  put 
puzzling  questions  about  its  contents.  Now,  we 
must  write  the  exact  amount,  and  no  more,  to  en- 
able Mr.  Morris  and  Mr.  Wynne  to  make  our  book 
appear  externally  "comme  il  faut."  We  write  this 
chapter  in  part  for  that  purpose.  The  reader  would 
not  object  to  a  page,  or  so,  more  or  less  of  it,  and 
Mr.  Morris  and  Mr.  Wynne  will  know  how  to  cur- 
tail or  omit,  for  they  are  not  only  masters  of  their 
own  trades,  but  can  render  us  valuable  assistance  in 
ours. 

We  return  to  our  Cannibals,  with  this  single  re- 
mark to  that  morose  and  demure  reader  wdio  is  snarl- 
ing at  our  occasional  levit}^ — "You,  sir,  never 
throw  off  your  dignity ;  because  you  would  be  sure 
to  uncover  your  folly.'' 


368 


CANNIBALS   ALL  ;    OR, 


"^Ve  warn  tlie  Nortli,  that  every  one  of  the  lead- 
ing Abolitionists  is  agitating  the  negro  slavery- 
question  merely  as  a  means  to  attain  ulterior  ends, 
and  those  ends  nearer  hume.  They  would  not 
spend  so  much  time  and  money  for  the  mere  sake  of 
the  negro  or  his  master,  about  whom  they  care  lit- 
tle. But  they  know  that  men  once  fairly  commit- 
ted to  negro  slavery  agitation — once  committed  to 
the  sweeping  principle,  "that  man  being  a  moral 
agent,  accountable  to  God  for  his  actions,  should 
not  have  those  actions  controlled  and  directed  by 
the  Avill  of  another,"  are,  in  effect,  committed  to 
Socialism  and  Communism,  to  the  most  ultra  doc- 
trines of  Garrison,  Goodell,  Smith  and  Andrews — 
to  no  private  property,  no  church,  no  law,  no  gov- 
ernment,— to  free  love,  free  lands,  free  women  and 
free  churches. 

There  is  no  middle  ground — not  an  inch  of 
ground  of  any  sort,  between  the  doctrines  which 
we  hold  and  those  which  Mr.  Garrison  holds.  If 
slavery,  either  white  or  black,  be  wrong  in  principle 
or  practice,  then  is  Mr.  Garrison  right — then  is  all 
human  government  wrong. 

Socialism,  not  Abolition,  is  the  real  object  of 
Black  Republicanism.  The  North,  not  the  South, 
the  true  battle-ground.  Like  Funny  Wright,  the 
author  of  American  Socialism,  the  agitators  of  the 
jNorth  look  upon  free  society  as  a  mere  transition 
state  to  a  better,  but  untried,  form  of  society.    The 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  369 

reader  will  not  fully  comprehend  the  ideas  we  would 
convey,  without  reading  "England  the  Civilizer," 
by  Miss  Fanny  Wright.  It  is  worth  reading,  not 
only  as  far  the  best  history  of  the  British  constitu- 
tion, but  as  the  most  correct  and  perfect  analysis 
and  delineation  of  free  society — of  that  form  of  so- 
ciety which  all  Socialists  and  all  thinking  men  agree 
cannot  stand  as  it  is.  The  Abolition  school  of  So- 
cialists like  it  because  it  is  intolerable — because 
they  consider  it  a  transition  state  to  a  form  of  so- 
ciety without  law  or  government.  Miss  Wright  has 
the  honesty  to  admit,  that  a  transitioti  has  never 
taken  place.  No ;  and  never  will  take  place :  be- 
cause the  expulsion  of  human  nature  is  a  pre-requi- 
site  to  its  occurrence. 

But  we  solemnly  warn  the  North,  that  what  she 
calls  a  transition,  is  what  every  leading  Abolition- 
ist is  moving  heaven  and  earth  to  attain.  This  is 
their  real  object — negro  emancipation  a  mere  gull- 
trap. 

In  the  attempt  to  attain  "transition"  seas  of 
gore  may  be  shed,  until  military  despotism  comes  in 
to  restore  peace  and  security. 

We  (for  we  are  a  Socialist)  agree  with  Mr.  Car- 
lyle,  that  the  action  of  free  society  must  be  re- 
versed. That,  instead  of  relaxing  more  and  more 
the  bonds  that  bind  man  to  man,  you  must  screw 
them  up  more  closely.  That,  instead  of  no  govern- 
ment, you  must  have  more  government.     And  this 


370  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR, 

is  eminently  true  in  America,  -where  from  tlie  na- 
ture of  things,  as  society  becomes  older  and  popu- 
lation more  dense,  more  of  government  will  be 
required.  To  prevent  the  attempt  at  transition, 
•which  Avould  only  usher  in  revolution,  you  must  be- 
gin to  govern  more  vigorously. 

But  we  will  be  asked,  How  is  this  to  be  effected  ? 
The  answer  is  easy.  The  means  are  at  hand,  and 
the  work  is  begun. 

The  Democratic  party,  purged  of  its  radicalism 
and  largely  recruited  from  the  ranks  of  the  old 
line  Whigs,  has  become  eminently  and  actively  con- 
servative. It  is  the  antipodes  of  the  Democratic 
party  of  the  days  of  Jefferson,  in  the  grounds 
which  it  occupies  and  the  opinions  which  it  holds, 
(what  it  professes  to  hold  is  another  thing.)  Yet  it 
has  been  a  consistent  party  throughout.  Consistent, 
in  wisely  and  boldly  adapting  its  action  to  the 
emergencies  of  the  occasion.  It  is  pathological, 
and  practices  according  to  prevailing  symptoms. 
'Tis  true,  it  has  a  mighty  Nosology  in  its  Declara- 
tion of  Independence,  Bills  of  Rights,  Constitu- 
tions, Platforms,  and  Preambles  and  llesolutions; 
but,  like  a  good  physician,  it  watches  the  state  of 
the  patient,  and  casts  Nosology  to  the  dogs  when 
the  symptoms  require  it,  When  we  entered  the 
party  we  were  radicals,  and  half  Abolitionists,  and 
found  inscribed  on  its  banner,  '■'■Tlie  ivorld  is  too 
onuch  governed!  "    Now,  we  are  sure  the  conviction 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        371 

has  fastened  itself  on  the  heart  of  every  good  citi- 
zen, that  "the  world  is  too  little  governed." 

The  true  and  honorable  distinction  of  the  Demo- 
cratic party  is,  that  it  has  but  one  unbending  prin- 
ciple— "The  safety  of  the  people  is  the  supreme 
law."  To  this  party  wc  think  the  Nation  and  the 
North  may  confidently  look  for  a  happy  exodus 
from  our  difficulties.  It  is  pure,  honest,  active  and 
patriotic  now,  and  will  continue  so  as  long  as  the 
dark  cloud  of  Abolition  and  Socialism  lowers  and 
threatens  at  the  North.  Long  and  quiet  possession 
of  power  will  be  sure  to  corrupt  it.  It  will  be 
then  time  to  cast  it  aside.  It  is  now  able,  and  it 
alone  is  able,  to  grapple  with  and  strangle  the  trea- 
sons of  the  North. 

"Times  change,  and  men  change  with  them." 

Good  and  brave  men  are  proud,  not  ashamed,  of 
such  changes.  Let  no  false  pride  of  seeming  con- 
sistency deter  us  from  an  avowal,  which  omitted, 
may  trammel  and  impede  our  action. 

Our  old  Nosology  is  an  effective  arsenal  and  ar- 
mory for  the  most  ultra  Abolitionists,  and  the  more 
effective,  because  we  have  not  formally  repudiated 
it.  Let  ''''The  world  is  too  little  governed''  be 
adopted  as  our  motto,  inscribed  upon  our  flag  and 
run  up  to  the  mast-head. 

Note. — We  learn  that  many  of  the  old  Federalists  of 
the  North;  and  some  of  the  South,  are  joining  our  ranks. 


372  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OK, 

We  welcome  them.  Their  principles  were  wrong  when 
they  adopted  them,  hut  (burring  their  consolidation  doc- 
trines) will  answer  pretty  well  now.  It  was  ever  the 
misfortune  of  the  old  Federal  party  and  the  lately  de- 
ceased Whig  party,  to  be  right  at  the  wrong  time.  They 
were,  as  the  doctors  say,  nosological  and  not  pathological 
in  practice.  The  AVhig  party  of  England,  like  the  Dem- 
ocratic pai'ty  of  America,  is  eminently  pathological,  ac- 
tive, observant  and  impressible. 


SLAVES   WITHOUT   MASTERS.  373 

9- 


CHATTER    XXXVII. 

ADDENDUM. 

Vlrcjlnki,  Nov.  18,  1856.      ^ 

Wm.  Lloyd  GtArrison,  Esq. : 

Dear  Sir — I  have  observed  so  much  fairness  in 
the  manner  in  which  slavery  and  other  sociological  ques- 
tions are  treated  in  The  Liberator,  that  it  has  occurred 
to  me  you  would  not  consider  suggestions  from  an  ultra 
pro-slavery  man  obtrusive,  and  might  deem  them  worth 
a  place  in  your  columns.  I  shall  not  promise  that  the 
example  of  your  liberality  will  be  followed  at  the  South. 
It  is  a  theory  of  mine,  that  "  recurrence  to  fundamental 
principles"  is  only  treason  clothed  in  periphrastic  phrase; 
and  that  the  right  of  private  judgment,  liberty  of  the 
press,  freedom  of  speech,  and  freedom  of  religion,  are 
subordinate  to  these  "principles,"  and  must  not  be  al- 
lowed to  assail  them, — else  there  can  be  no  stability  in 
government,  or  security  of  private  rights.  The  South 
thinks  me  heretical,  but  feels  that  I  am  right,  and  takes 
care  to  trammel  these  sacred  rights  quite  as  efficiently  by 
an  austere  public  opinion,  as  Louis  Napoleon  does  by  law 
or  by  mere  volition. 

I  entirely  concur  in  a  theory  I  heard  Mr.  Wendell 


oTJ:  CANNIBALS   ALL  ;   OR,  ^ 

Phillips*  propound  in  a  lecture  at  New  Haven.  I  shall 
not  attempt  to  give  his  eloquent  words,  for  I  am  incapa- 
ble of  doing  justice  to  his  language;  but  the  amount  of 
his  theory  was,  that  governments  are  not  formed  by  man, 
but  are  the  gradual  accretions  of  time,  circumstance,  and 
human  exigencies;  that  they  grow  up  like  trees,  and 
that  man  may  cultivate,  train  and  aid  their  growth  and 
development,  but  cannot  make  them  out  and  out.  Now, 
I  accept  the  theory,  and  propose,  in  the  first  place,  to 
deter  men  from  applying  the  axe  to  the  root  of  our 
Southern  institutions,  (that  is,  discussing  or  recurring 
to  "fundamental  principles,")  by  moral  suasion  or  moni- 
tion; next,  by  tar  and  feathers,  and,  that  foiling,  by  the 
halter.  The  worst  institutions  that  ever  greiv  up  in  any 
country  are  better  than  the  best  that  philosophers  or 
philanthropists  ever  devised.  As  for  ours,  we  deem 
them,  since  the  days  of  Rome,  Athens  and  Judea,  the 
crack  institutions  of  the  world. 

With  these  preliminary  remarks,  I  will  make  the  fol- 
lowing suggestions  or  interrogations  : — 

Is  not  slavery  to  capital  less  tolerable  than  slavery  to 
human  masters  J:' 

"Where  a  few,  as  in  England,  Ireland  and  Scotland, 
own  all  the  lands,  are  not  the  mass,  the  common  laborers, 

*  Mr.  Phillips  is,  in  private  life,  aside  from  bis  abolition  and 
sectional  prejudices,  a  worthy,  accomplished  gentleman.  He  is 
the  most  eloquent  and  graceful  speaker  to  whom  ■wc  ever  lis- 
tened. He  seems  to  distill  manna  and  ambrosia  from  his  lips, 
but  is  all  the  wliile  firing  whole  broadsides  of  hot  shot.  "He 
is  his  own  antithesis" — an  infernal  machine  set  to  music. 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        375 

who  own  no  capital,  and  possess  neither  mechanical  nor 
professional  skill,  of  necessity,  the  slaves  to  capital? 

Was  it  not  this  slavery  to  capital  that  occasioned  the 
great  Irish  famine,  and  is  it  not  this  same  slavery  that 
keeps  the  large  majority  of  the  laboring  class  in  Western 
Europe  in  a  state  of  hereditary  starvation  ? 

In  old  societies,  where  the  laborers  are  domestic  slaves, 
and  exceed  in  number  the  demand  for  labor,  would  not 
emancipating  them  subject  them  at  once  to  a  mastery,  or 
exacting  despotism  of  capital,  for  more  oppressive  than 
domestic  slavery  ? 

Did  not  the  emancipation  of  European  serfs,  or  vil- 
liens,  in  all  instances,  injure  their  condition  as  a  class? 

In  the  event  of  the  occurrence  of  such  excess  of  do- 
mestic slaves,  would  it  not  be  more  merciful  to  follow  the 
Spartan  plan,  and  kill  the  surplus,  than  the  abolition 
plan,  which  sets  them  all  free,  to  live  on  half  allowance, 
and  to  "make  free  labor  cheaper  than  slave  labor,"  by 
this  fierce  competition  and  underbidding  to  get  employ- 
ment? 

Are  there  not  fewer  checks  to  superior  wit,  skill  and 
capital,  and  less  of  protection  afforded  to  the  weak,  igno- 
rant and  landless  mass  in  Northern  society,  than  in  any 
other  ever  devised  by  the  wit  of  man? 

Is  not  ^^ laissez-faire,^^  in  English,  "Every  man  for 
himself,  and  devil  take  the  hindmost,"  your  whole  theory 
and  practice  of  government  ? 

When  your  society  grows  older,  your  population  more 
dense,  and  property,  by  your  trading,  speculating  and 
commercial  habits,  gets  into  a  few  hands,  will  not  the 


376  CANNIBALS   ALL;   OR, 

slavery  to  capital  be  more  complete  and  unmitigated  than 
in  any  part  of  Europe,  where  a  throne,  a  nobility  and 
established  church,  stand  between  the  bosses,  bankers 
and  landlords,  and  the  oppressed  masses? 

Do  not  almost  all  well-informed  men  of  a  philosophical 
turn  of  mind  in  AVestei'n  Europe  and  our  North,  concur 
in  opinion  that  the  whole  framework  of  society,  religious, 
ethical,  economic,  legal  and  political,  requires  radical 
change  ? 

Is  not  the  absence  of  such  opinion  at  the  South,  and 
its  prevalence  in  free  society,  conclusive  proof  of  the 
naturalness  and  necessity  of  domestic  slavery? 

Would  not  the  North  be  willing  to  leave  the  settlement 
of  the  slavery  question  in  Kansas  to  the  public  opinion 
of  Christendom,  (for  it  will  be  settled  by  all  Christen- 
dom, of  whom  not  one  in  a  hundred  will  be  slavehold- 
ers,) if  it  were  not  sensible  that  public  opinion  was  about 
to  decide  in  favor  of  negro  slavery,  and,  therefore,  that  it 
must  be  forstalled  by  Federal  legislation  ? 

A  Southerner. 

Since  our  work  was  in  the  press,  the  above  has 
appeared  in  the  Liberator.  We  embrace  the  occa- 
sion to  thank  Mr.  Garrison  for  his  courtesy,  and  to 
make  a  few  remarks  that  we  hope  will  not  be 
deemed  ill-timed  or  impertinent. 

A  comparison  of  opinions  and  of  institutions  be- 
tween North  and  South  will  lead  to  kinder  and 
more  pacific  relations.     Hitherto,  such  comparisons 


SLAVES  WITHOUT  MASTERS.        377 

could  not  be  made,  because  the  South  believed  her- 
self wrong,  weak  and  defenceless;  and  that  Abo- 
lition was  but  an  attempt  to  apply  the  brand  to 
the  explosive  materials  of  her  social  edifice.  She 
is  now  equally  confident  of  her  justice  and  her 
strength,  and  believes  her  social  system  more 
stable,  as  well  as  more  benevolent,  equitable  and 
natural,  than  that  of  the  North.  Whilst  she  will 
never  tolerate  radical  agitation  and  demagoguical 
propagandism,  she  is  ready  for  philosophical  argu- 
ment and  discussion,  and  for  historical  and  statis- 
tical comparison. 

A  Southerner  employs  the  term  "discussion," 
as  equivalent  to  agitation ;  for  the  South  does 
not  proscribe  the  discussion  of  any  subject,  by 
proper  persons,  at  proper  places,  and  on  pro- 
per occasions.  (Who  are  proper  persons,  and 
what  proper  times  and  places,  must  be  left  to  a 
healthy,  just  and  enlightened  public  opinion  to  de- 
termine.) But  men  shall  not  lecture  our  children, 
in  the  streets,  on  the  beauties  of  infidelity ;  parsons 
shall  not  preach  politics  from  the  pulpit;  women 
shall  not  crop  the  petticoat,  mount  the  rostrum,  and 
descant  on  the  purity  of  Free  Love ;  incendiaries 
shall  not  make  speeches  against  the  right  of  land- 
holders, nor  teach  our  negroes  the  sacred  doctrines 
of  liberty  and  equality. 

We  are  satisfied  with  our  institutions,  and  are 


378  CANNIBALS   ALL;    OR 

not  -willing  to  submit  them  to  the  "  experimentum  in 
vile  corpus!"  It'  the  North  thinks  her  own  worth- 
less, or  only  valuable  as  subjects  for  anatomical 
dissection,  or  chemical  and  phrenological  experi- 
ments, she  may  advance  the  cause  of  humanity, 
by  treating  her  people  as  philosophers  do  mice  and 
hares  and  dead  frogs.  We  think  her  case  not  so 
desperate  as  to  authorize  such  reckless  experiment- 
ation. Though  her  experiment  has  failed,  she  is 
not  yet  dead.  There  is  a  way  still  open  for 
recovery. 

As  we  are  a  Brother  Socialist,  we  have  a  right 
to  prescribe  for  the  patient ;  and  our  Consulting 
Brethren,  Messrs.  Garrison,  Greely,  and  others, 
should  duly  consider  the  value  of  our  opinion. 
Extremes  meet — and  we  and  the  leading  Abolition- 
ists difler  but  a  hairbreadth.  We,  like  Carlyle, 
prescribe  more  of  government ;  they  insist  on  No- 
Government.  Yet  their  social  institutions  Avould 
make  excellently  conducted  Southern  sugar  and 
cotton  farms,  with  a  head  to  govern  them.  Add  a 
Virginia  overseer  to  Mr.  Greely's  Phalansteries, 
and  Mr.  Greely  and  we  would  have  little  to  quarrel 
about. 

We  have  a  lively  expectation  that  when  our 
Cannibals  make  their  entre(?,  "  Our  Masters  in  the 
art  of  War"  will  greet  them  with  applause,  instead 
of  hisses ;    with  a   "  feu  de  joie,"   or  gratulatory 


SLAVES  WITHOUT   MASTERS.  379 

salute,  instead  of  a  murderous  broadside.  We  want 
to  be  friends  with  them  and  with  all  the  world  ; 
and,  as  the  curtain  is  falling,  we  conclude  with  the 
valedictory  and  invocation  of  the  Roman  actor — 
"Vos  valete!  et  plaudite!" 


THE     END, 


Date  Due 


4^4^^5I 


:^: 


My  1  f)  tQC4 


#AR-^ 


1965 


-J* 


fvV^ 


DtC  b 


^^     I  1956 


i35E. 


■V  • 

-I  O   ffl 


"HI' 


■ 


/  £  ¥\ 


^ 


A-X-i-C 


,^A  A  ft  A^  *^    '*^ 


DATE 


^Z^/?/ 


Tjff 


^^s 


ijiiiiiij 


