wka,  locm*     ef    beefy/ 


I  !      V 

t  l      \ 

I  \  1  ) 

I  I  ;     \ 


: )  I )  l  i  i  1 


/ 


i  O 


NY  PUBLIC  LIBRARY     THE  BRANCH  LIBRARIES 
III  II        I 


3  3333  05823  5884 


BEPERENCE  DESK 


OS3.5     £      j.,       795575-' 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

Microsoft  Corporation 


k 


http://www.archive.org/details/catalogueofbooksOOcarn 


CATALOGUE    OF    BOOKS 

IN  THE 

CHILDREN'S  DEPARTMENT 

OF  THE 

CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Volume  I 

SECOND  EDITION 


PITTSBURGH 
CARNEGIE  LIBRARY 

1920 


THE  NEW  YORK. 

PUBl  :ARY 

A8TOR,  LENi-X  AND 
TH.D5*  FOUNDATIONS. 


Subject  Index 


Volume  II 


Preface 

Author  List 
Title  List 


Contents 
Volume  I 


Page 

5 

7 

389 


Preface 

The  first  edition  of  the  "Catalogue  of  books  in  the  Chil- 
dren's Department"  was  published  in  1909.  Some  of  the 
books  there  listed  are  no  longer  obtainable,  some  have  been 
supplanted  by  better  books,  and  new  books  have  been  added  as 
they  appeared,  making  numerous  changes  in  the  collection. 

The  catalogue  has  been  reprinted  partly  in  response  to 
requests  from  other  libraries  but  primarily  for  use  in  the 
Carnegie  Library  of  Pittsburgh.  It  has  accordingly  been 
planned  with  a  view  to  meeting  the  requirements  and  needs  of 
this  library.  The  annotations  are  descriptive  or  suggestive  and 
for  the  most  part  are  addressed  to  boys  and  girls.  Some  of 
the  books  for  little  children  are  annotated  from  the  standpoint 
of  the  adult  reader. 

The  headings  in  the  subject  index  are  those  in  use  in  the 
dictionary  card  catalogue  in  the  children's  rooms  of  the  Car- 
negie Library  of  Pittsburgh.  Single  poems  and  short  stories 
have  only  occasionally  been  indexed  by  subjects.  Reference 
works  and  other  books  of  a  comprehensive  nature  have  not 
been  analyzed  for  specific  headings  so  that  the  omission  of  a 
subject  heading  does  not  necessarily  indicate  that  material  on  a 
given  subject  cannot  be  found  in  the  children's  book  collection. 
Call  numbers  of  books  have  been  given  in  the  subject  index  to 
facilitate  its  use  locally. 

The  number  of  titles  included  in  this  issue  of  the  catalogue 
is  approximately  3,300.  More  than  one  edition  has  been  listed 
in  the  case  of  standard  classics  like  Defoe's  "Robinson  Crusoe." 
This  catalogue  also  contains  the  few  foreign  books  in  the  col- 
lection and  the  reference  books.  A  few  handbooks  for  teachers, 
such   as    Poulsson's    "III   the  child's   world,"    and    adult    bonks 


PREFACE 


which  have  been  found  especially  useful  in  work  with  some  of 
the  boys  and  girls  who  use  the  children's  rooms,  are  duplicated 
in  the  children's  collections  and  are  therefore  included.  Maga- 
zines and  unbound  picture  books  have  been  omitted ;  also  lists 
and  indexes  chiefly  of  use  to  children's  librarians.  Some  out 
of  print  books  which  this  library  owns  in  considerable  numbers, 
and  others  which  are  likely  to  be  reprinted,  have  been  included.' 
Publishers  are  given  except  in  the  case  of  foreign  books  which 
are  usually  purchased  in  this  country.  Prices  are  so  fluctuating 
at  the  present  time  that  they  have  been  omitted. 

This  edition  of  the  catalogue  is  the  joint  work  of  the  Chil- 
dren's Department  and  the  Catalogue  Department,  the  direction 
of  the  work  being  under  the  immediate  supervision  of  the  cata- 
loguer of  children's  books.  It  is  published  in  two  volumes. 
Volume  one  contains  the  author  list  and  the  title  list ;  volume 
two  contains  the  subject  index. 

John  H.  Leete, 

Director. 
December  31,  1919. 


Author  List 

Aanrud,  Hans.  j  A112I 

Lisbeth  Longfrock;  tr.  from  the  Norwegian  by  L.  E.  Poulsson. 
Ginn. 

Little  Lisbeth  goes  to  live  at  Hoel  farm,  where  she  helps  take  care  of  the  sheep  and 
goats  and  other  animals,  makes  friends  with  Bearhunter,  the  dog,  and  tries  to  tame  the 
big  goat,  Crookhorn. 

Abbot,  Alice  Balch.  j  Ai26f 

Frigate's  namesake.     Century. 

Story  of  a  little  girl  named  for  the  frigate  Essex. 

Abbot,  Willis  John.  j  973.7  Ai2b 

Battle  fields  and  camp  fires.     1890.     Dodd. 

Covers  the  second  period  of  the  military  history  of  the  Civil  war,  opening  with  the 
retreat  from  the  Peninsula  and  closing  with  the  accession  of  Gen.  Grant  to  the  chief 
command.  The  battles  described  are  second  Bull  Run,  Antietam,  Corinth,  Fredericks- 
burg, Chancellorsville,  Gettysburg  and  Vicksburg. 

Abbot,  Willis  John.  j  973.7  Ai2ba 

Battle-fields  and  victory.     1891.     Dodd. 

Third  period  of  the  military  history  of  the  Civil  war  from  Gen.  Grant's  accession  to 
the  chief  command  up  to  the  close  of  the  war. 

Abbot,  Willis  John.  j  973.7  A12 

Battle-fields  of  '61.     1899.     Dodd. 

History  of  the  Civil  war  to  the  end  of  the  Peninsular  campaign  in   1862. 
Abbot,  Willis  John.  j  973.89  A12 

Blue  jackets  of  '98;  a  history  of  the  Spanish-American  war.  1899. 
Dodd. 

Gives  the  causes  of  the  war  with  Spain  and  tells  of  the  part  taken  by  the  army  as 
well  as  by  the  navy.     Also  included  in  the  author's  "Naval  history  of  the  United  States." 

Abbot,  Willis  John.  j  973  A1211 

Naval  history  of  the  United  States.     Dodd. 

Contents:  Blue  jackets  of  '76. — Blue  jackets  of  1812. — Blue  jackets  of  '61. — Blue 
jackets  in  time  of  peace. — The  naval  war  with  Spain. 

Abbot,  Willis  John.  j  359.52  A12 

Soldiers  of  the  sea;  the  story  of  the  United  States  marine  corps. 
1918.     Dodd. 

Exploits  of  the  marine  corps  from  their  creation  in  1775  to  their  victories  at  Chateau 
Thierry  and  Bois  de  Belleau  in  1918. 

Abbot,  Willis  John.  j  973  Ai2s 

Story  of  our  army  for  young  Americans,  from  colonial  days  to  the 
present  time.     1914.     Dodd. 

Historical  account  for  older  boys  and  girls.  The  Civil  war  is  treated  with  especial 
fullness. 


8  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Abbott,  J.  H.  M.  j  919.3  A13 

South  seas  (Melanesia),  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Norman 
Hardy.     1908.     Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

A  voyage  from  Sydney,  Australia,  to  the  New  Hebrides,  New  Caledonia  and  Solo- 
mon islands  of  the  South  seas,  with  much  information  about  the  strange  people  of  these 
"Black  islands"  and  their  ways. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  A374a 

Alexander  the  Great.     1900.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Boyhood  of  Alexander  of  Macedon  and  his  eastern  expedition,  including  the  con- 
quest of  Persia  and  the  invasion  of  India. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  03752a 

Charles  I.     1899.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Tells  of  his  early  life,  accession  to  the  throne,  the  long  contest  between  the  king  and 
the  people  and  the  civil  war  to  which  it  led. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  03751a 

Charles  II.     1900.     Harper.   (Makers  of  history.) 
Eight  of  the  12  chapters  deal  with  the  dangers,  privations  and  exile  of  his  early  life. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  0992a 

Cyrus  the  Great.     1900.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

"Cyrus  was  the  founder  of  the  ancient  Persian  empire — a  monarchy,  perhaps,  the 
most  wealthy  and  magnificent  which  the  world  has  ever  seen."  This  book  relates  the 
strange  story  of  his  life  as  it  was  told  of  old  by  Herodotus  and  Xenophon. 

Abbott,  Jacob. 

Franconia  stories.     Harper. 

Malleville j    Ai32m2 

Wallace j   Ai32wa 

Mary  Erskine j   Ai32ma2 

Mary  Bell j  Ai32mar 

Beechnut j    Ai32b2 

Rodolphus j    Ai32b 

Ellen  Linn j  Ai32e2 

Stuyvesant j    Ai32stu 

Caroline j    A132C2 

Agnes j    Ai32a 

Stories  of  home  life  in  New  England  in  the  middle  part  of  the  19th  century.  The 
scene  is  a  glen  in  the  White  mountains  and  a  French  Canadian  boy,  whom  the  children 
always  call  Beechnut,  is  one  of  the  chief  characters. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  J255a 

Genghis  Khan.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

History  of  the  great  Asiatic  chieftain  who  proclaimed  himself  Khan  of  the  Mongol 
nation,  captured  Peking  and  conquered  central  Asia. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  H237a 

Hannibal.     1901.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Account  of  the  famous  Carthaginian  general  who  acquired  distinction  as  a  warrior 
by  his  desperate  contests  with  the  Romans. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  Cuga 

Julius  Caesar.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Partial  contents:  Caesar's  early  years. — The  conquest  of  Gaul. — Crossing  the  Rubi- 
con.— Caesar  in  Egypt. — Caesar  imperator. — The  conspiracy. — The  assassination. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  M382a 

Margaret  of  Anjou.     1900.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

"Margaret  of  Anjou  was  a  heroine;  not  a  heroine  of  romance  and  fiction,  but  of 
stern  and  terrible  reality.  Her  life  was  a  series  of  military  exploits,  attended  with  dan- 
gers, privations,  sufferings,  and  wonderful  vicissitudes  of  fortune,  scarcely  to  be  paral- 
leled in  the  whole  history  of  mankind."     Author. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  M43ga 

Mary,  queen  of  Scots.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Those  who  read  this  history  and  become  interested  in  the  beautiful  and  unfortunate 
queen  Mary,  will  enjoy  reading  Scott's  "Abbot"  and  Miss  Yonge's  "Unknown  to  his- 
tory." 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  N238a 

Nero.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Life  of  one  of  the  most  savage  of  the  Roman  emperors.  It  was  in  his  reign  that 
St.    Paul  is  said  to   have  met  his  martyrdom. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  P455a 

Peter  the  Great.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

The  revolt  of  Mazeppa,  the  Swedish  invasion  of  Russia,  the  building  of  St.  Peters- 
burg and  other  events  in  the  reign  of  Peter  the  Great,  "the  founder,  as  he  is  generally 
regarded  by  mankind,  of  Russian  civilization." 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  E48sa 

Queen  Elizabeth.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Elizabeth's  marked  personality  and  the  many  famous  men  and  women  associated 
with  her  make  her  reign  as  interesting  as  any  in  English  history.  Scott's  "Kenilworth" 
and  Bennett's  "Master  Skylark"  illustrate  this  period. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  R3g82a 

Richard  I.     1900.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Chiefly  an  account  of  his  adventures  during  the  third  crusade. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  R398a 

Richard  II.     1901.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

"King  Richard  the  Second  lived  in  the  days  when  the  chivalry  of  feudal  times  was 
in  all  its  glory.  His  father,  the  Black  Prince;  his  uncles,  the  sons  of  Edward  the  Third, 
and  his  ancestors  in  a  long  line,  extending  back  to  the  days  of  Richard  the  First,  were 
among  the  most  illustrious  knights  of  Europe  in  those  days,  and  their  history  abounds 
in  the  wonderful  exploits,  the  narrow  escapes,  and  the  romantic  adventures,  for  which 
the  knights  errant  of  the   Middle  Ages  were  so   renowned."     Preface. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  R398ia 

Richard  III.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 
Account  of  the  life  and  reign  of  "Richard  the  Usurper"  from  his  childhood  to  the 

fatal  field  of  Bosworth. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  R66?a 

Romulus.     1901.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Legendary  account  of  the  founder  of  Rome,  including  the  story  of  .Eneas  and  the 
destruction  of  Troy. 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  W74ia 

William  the  Conqueror.     1901.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Tells  of  his  reign  in  Normandy  and  the  conquest  of  England.  Other  books  covering 
this  period  are  Henty's  "Wulf  the  Saxon,"  and  Tappan's  "In  the  days  of  William  the 
Conqueror." 

Abbott,  Jacob.  j  92  Xiga 

Xerxes.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Life,  character  and  exploits  of  Xerxes,  ruler  of  the  ancient  Persian  empire  whin  it 
was  at  the  height  of  its  prosperity  and  power. 


io  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  F87gab 

Benjamin  Franklin.     1903.     Dodd. 

Tells  the  story  of  his  boyhood  in  Boston,  how  he  left  home  to  seek  his  fortune,  of 
his  self-education  and  his  public  life  at  home  and  abroad.  Quotes  largely  from  Benjamin 
Franklin's  own  writings. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  02342a 

Christopher  Carson,  known  as  Kit  Carson.     1901.     Dodd. 

Young  people's  biography  of  one  of  the  most  picturesque  figures  of  early  Western 
history,  trapper,  guide  and  friend  of  the  Indians. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  0727a 

Christopher  Columbus.     1898.     Dodd. 

Partial  contents:  Struggles  of  his  early  life. — First  voyage. — Romantic  adventures. 
— The  second  voyage. — Life  at  Hispaniola. — The  coast  of  Cuba  explored. — Shipwreck  at 
Jamaica. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  B63ia 

Daniel  Boone,  pioneer  of  Kentucky.     1898.     Dodd. 

Life  of  the  famous  pioneer,  hunter  and  Indian  fighter. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  C886a 

David  Crockett.     1898.     Dodd. 

Rough  frontier  life,  hunting  adventures  and  Indian  warfare. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  S7i8a 

Ferdinand  De  Soto.     1903.     Dodd. 

"De  Soto  conducts  us  to  Florida,  and  leads  us  through  scenes  of  romance,  crime, 
blood  and  woe — through  many  Indian  tribes,  across  the  continent,  to  the  Mississippi, 
where  he  finds  his  melancholy  grave."     Author  in  Preface  to  his  "Benjamin  Franklin." 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  H45ia 

Henry  IV.     1900.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

The  history  of  Henry  IV,  king  of  France  and  Navarre,  tells  of  the  religious  wars 
in  France  in  the  16th  century.  "There  is  no  romance  so  wild  as  the  veritable  history  of 
those  times."     Weyman's  "Gentleman  of  France"  is  a  story  of  this  period. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  C82ga 

Hernando  Cortez.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Life  and  adventures  of  a  famous  Spanish  soldier,  the  conqueror  of  Mexico. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  970.2  A13 

History  of  King  Philip,  sovereign  chief  of  the  Wampanoags.  1885. 
Harper. 

Also  published  under  title  "King  Philip." 

King  Philip  was  the  Indian  chief  who  incited  the  terrible  massacres  in  the  Con- 
necticut valley  and  eastern  Massachusetts.  This  book  gives  an  account  of  his  life  and 
his  wars  with  the  white  settlers. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  H8isa 

Hortense.     1900.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

The  life  of  Hortense  Beauharnais  was  one  of  unusual  vicissitudes.  She  passed 
through  the  scenes  of  anarchy  and  terror  of  the  French  revolution,  was  one  of  the  most 
brilliant  and  illustrious  women  of  the  imperial  court  of  Napoleon,  became  queen  of  Hol- 
land and  still  later  knew  the  sorrows  of  exile. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  J443a 

Josephine.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Her  romantic  life  in  Martinique,  her  imprisonment  in  France  during  the  Reign  of 
terror,  her  marriage  to  Napoleon  and  her  coronation  as  empress  of  the  French. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot. 

King  Philip.     See  his  History  of  King  Philip. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  J4iia 

Life  of  John  Paul  Jones.     1903.     Dodd. 

Account  of  the  early  life  of  John  Paul  Jones,  the  cruise  of  the  Bon  Homme  Richard, 
the  Russian  campaign  and  other  events  in  the  career  of  the  famous  admiral  of  Revolu- 
tionary times.     By  an  ardent  admirer. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  R635a 

Madame  Roland.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Biography  of  one  of  the  heroines  of  the  French  revolution. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  M386a 

Maria  Antoinette.     1904.     Harper.     (Makers  of  history.) 

Sad  story  of  the  unfortunate  Marie  Antoinette,  who  at  the  age  of  20  became  queen 
of  France. 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  8785a 

Miles  Standish,  captain  of  the  Pilgrims.     1900.     Dodd. 

"Miles  Standish.  .  .conducts  us  in  the  Mayflower,  across  the  Atlantic,  lands  us  at 
Plymouth,  and  tells  the  never  to  be  forgotten  story  of  the  heroism  of  our  fathers  in 
laying  the  foundations  of  this  great  republic."  Author  in  Preface  to  his  "Benjamin 
Franklin." 

Abbott,  John  Stevens  Cabot.  j  92  8938a 

Peter  Stuyvesant.     1898.    Dodd. 

"Peter  Stuyvesant.  ..introduces  us  to  the  Dutch  settlement  at  the  mouth  of  the 
Hudson,  conveys  us,  in  his  schooner,  up  the  solitary  river,  along  whose  forest-covered 
banks  Indian  villages  were  scattered;  and  reveals  to  us  all  the  struggles,  by  which  the 
Dutch  New  Amsterdam  was  converted  into  the  English  New  York."  Author  in  Preface 
to  his  "Benjamin  Franklin." 

Adams,  Andy.  j  A211W 

Wells  brothers,  the  young  cattle  kings.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's 

library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

"Adventures  of  two  boys  who  are  thrown  by  circumstances,  and  almost  by  accident, 

into  the  business  of  cattle-raising,  and  become  in  time  young  cattle  kings.  .  .Gives  a  true 

picture  of  conditions  which  have  now  almost  passed  out  of  existence."     Outlook,   ign. 

Adams,  John  Duncan.  j  684  A21 

Carpentry  for  beginners;  things  to  make.     1917.     Moffat. 

Good  designs  for  small  articles  simple  enough  for  the  beginner;  also  for  furniture, 
lamps,  flower  boxes  and  bird  houses.     Gives  full  directions  for  making. 

Adams,  Joseph  Henry.  j  537-8i  A21 

Harper's  electricity  book  for  boys,  with  an  explanation  of  electric 
light,  heat,  power  and  traction  by  J.  B.  Baker,  and  a  dictionary  of  elec- 
trical terms.     1907.     Harper. 

Aims  to  give  boys  a  practical  working  knowledge  of  electricity.  Tells  how  to  make 
cells  and  batteries,  switches  and  insulators,  armatures,  motors  and  coils,  and  shows  how 
easily  experiments  may  be  made  with  home-made  appliances  at  small  cost. 

Adams,  Joseph  Henry.  j  680  A21 

Harper's  indoor  book  for  boys.     1908.     Harper. 

Instructions  for  indoor  work,  including  woodworking,  metal-working,  clay-modeling, 
book-binding,  picture-framing,  pyrography,  embossing  and  stenciling. 

Adams,  Joseph  Henry,  cd.  j  790  A21 

Harper's  outdoor  book  for  boys.     1907.    Harper. 

Tells  how  to  make  wigwams,  aquariums,  merry-go-rounds,  pet  shelters,  summer- 
houses  and  pergolas,  weather-  vanes  and  windmills,  aerial  toys,  coasters,  skees  and  snow- 
shoes,  kites  and  aeroplanes,  fishing-tackle,  land-yachts,  fire-engines,  water-wheels,  boats, 
rafts,  etc.     Contains  also  directions  about  camping  and  trapping. 


12  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Adams,  Morley.  j  790  A215 

Toy-making  at  home;  how  to  make  a  hundred  toys  from  odds  and 

ends.     [1915.]     Stokes. 

Directions  for   making  such  toys   as  dolls'    furniture,   windmills,   steam-engines  and 

boats,   from  matches,   cardboard,  spools,   empty   cans,   clothespins,   and   other   "odds   and 

ends." 

Adams,  Oscar  Fay.  j  928  A21 

Dear  old  story-tellers.     1889.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  Homer;  tales  and  romances. — The  Arabian  nights. — ^isop. — Mother 
Goose. — Charles  Perrault.- — The  brothers  Grimm. — La  Fontaine,  the  Good. — Laboulaye. 
— Hans  Christian  Andersen. — -Defoe. — La  Motte  Fouque,  the  Valiant. — The  author  of 
"Paul   and  Virginia"    [St.   Pierre]. 

Addison,  Joseph.  j  824  A22S 

Sir  Roger  de  Coverley;  ed.  by  Thomas  Cartwright.     1908.    Dutton. 

(Every  child's  library.) 

The    Spectator    tells    among   other   things    about    the    Coverley    ghost,    the   witch    of 

Coverley  and  the  picture  gallery  at  Coverley  hall;  also  how  the  genial  Sir  Roger  came 

to  London  and  visited  Westminster  abbey  and  Vauxhall.     Colored  pictures. 

Adelborg,  Ottilia.  j  A228C 

Clean  Peter  and  the  children  of  Grubbylea.     Longmans. 

Tells  in   rhyme  and  colored  pictures  how  Peter  washed  the  children  of  Grubbylea. 

.ffisop.  j  39891  A25fj 

Fables;  a  new  translation  by  V.  S.  Vernon  Jones,  with  an  introduc- 
tion by  G.  K.  Chesterton  and  illustrations  by  Arthur  Rackham.  1912. 
Heinemann. 

Thirteen  color  plates  and  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

-ffisop.  j  398.91  A25fd 

Fables;  illustrated  by  E.  J.  Detmold.     Hodder. 

Contains  23  color  plates. 

.ffisop.  j  398.91  A2sfg 

Fables;  retold  in  words  of  one  syllable  by  Mary  Godolphin.  Mc- 
Kay. 

.ffisop.  j  398.91  A25fi 

Fables;  told  anew  and  their  history  traced  by  Joseph  Jacobs.    1894. 

Macmillan. 

Many  pictures  in  black  and  white  by  Richard  Heighway. 

.ffisop.  j  398.91  A25h 

A  hundred  fables;  tr.  by  Sir  Roger  L'Estrange,  with  an  introduc- 
tion by  Kenneth  Grahame.     1903.     Lane. 

Full-page  pictures  in  black  and  white  by  P.  J.  Billinghurst. 

Agassiz,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Cary).  j  593  A26 

First  lesson  in  natural  history.     1896.     Heath.     (Boston  Society  of 

Natural   History.     Guides   for  science-teaching.) 

Contents:      Sea-anemones    and    corals. — Coral    reefs. — Hydroids    and   jelly-fishes. — 

Star-fishes  and  sea-urchins. 

Aikin,  John,  &  Barbauld,  Mrs  A.  L.  (Aikin).  j  504  A29 

Evenings  at  home;  or,  The  juvenile  budget  opened;  corrected  and 

revised  by  Cecil  Hartley.     [1891.]     Routledge. 
Fables,  stories,  dialogues  and  verses. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  13 

Aikin,  John,  and  others.  j  A2gie 

Eyes  and  no  eyes,  and  other  stories;  ed.  by  M.  V.  O'Shea.     Heath. 

Other  stories:  The  three  giants,  by  Mrs  Marcet. — Travellers'  wonders,  from  Aikin 
and  Barbauld's  Evenings  at  home. — A  curious  instrument,  by  Jane  Taylor. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May. 
Aunt  Jo's  scrap-bag. 

v.i.     My  boys  [and  other  stories] j  A355my 

v.2.     Shawl-straps j  A355sh 

v.3.     Cupid  and  Chow-chow  [and  other  stories] j  A355C 

v.4.     My  girls  [and  other  stories] j  A3551T1 

v.5.     Jimmy's  cruise  in  the  Pinafore  [and  other  stories]  .  .  .  .  j  A355Ji 
v.6.     Old-fashioned  Thanksgiving  [and  other  stories] j  A3550I 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355C 

Cupid   and    Chow-chow    [and   other   stories].      Little.      (Aunt   Jo's 

scrap-bag,  v.3.) 

Other  stories:  Huckleberry. — Nelly's  hospital. — Grandma's  team. — Fairy  pinafores. 
— -Mamma's  plot. — Kate's  choice. — The  moss  people. — What  Fanny  heard. — A  marine 
merry-making. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355e 

Eight  cousins.     Little. 

Scrapes,  mischief  and  fun  of  one  girl  and  her  seven  boy  cousins.  "Rose  in  bloom" 
is  the  sequel  to  this. 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  full-page  pictures  by  Harriet  Roosevelt  Richards. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A35Sg 

Garland  for  girls.     Little. 

Contents:  May  flowers. — An  ivy  spray  and  ladies'  slippers. — Pansies. — Water-lilies. 
— Poppies  and  wheat. — Little  button-rose. — Mountain  laurel  and  maidenhair. 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  12  full-page  pictures. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355J 

Jack  and  Jill.     Little. 

Story  of  a  boy  and  girl  comradeship;  how  Jack  and  Jill  were  hurt  coasting  and 
what  happened  while  they  were  getting  well. 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  full-page  pictures  by  Harriet  Roosevelt   Richards. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355Ji 

Jimmy's  cruise  in  the  Pinafore  [and  other  stories].     Little.     (Aunt 

Jo's  scrap-bag,  v.5.) 

Other  stories:  Two  little  travellers. — A  jolly  Fourth. — Seven  black  cats. — Rosa's 
tale. — Lunch.— A  bright  idea. — How  they  camped  out. — My  little  school-girl.  —  What  ;: 
shovel   did. — Clams. — Kitty's  cattle  show. — What  becomes  of  the  pins. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355J0 

Jo's  boys  and  how  they  turned  out;  a  sequel  to  Little  men.    Little. 
The  new  illustrated  edition  has  full-page  pictures  by  Ellen  Wetherald  Alliens. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355I 

Little  men.     Little. 

Jolly  life  at  Plumfield  with  Jo's  boys  and  girls.     Sequel  to  "Little  women." 
The  new  illustrated  edition   has  full-page  pictures  by  Reginald  B.   Birch. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355H 

Little  women.     Little. 

One  of  the  most  popular  of  girls'  books.  It  is  a  story  of  the  happy  home  life  of 
four  girls,  Meg,  Jo,  Beth  and  Amy,  drawn  largely  from  the  girlhood  of  Miss  Alcott 
and  her  sisters.  The  first  of  a  series,  the  second  being  "Little  men"  and  the  last  "Jo's 
boys." 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  full-page  pictures  from  drawings  by  Alice  Barber 
Stephens.     Another  edition  is  illustrated  in  color  by  Jessie  Willcox   Smith. 


14  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355I11 

Lulu's  library.     3v.     Little. 

A  mixture  of  fairy  tales,  animal  stories  and  the  adventures  of  little  girls  and  boys. 
Some  of  the  stories  are,  The  candy  country. — The  skipping  shoes. — A  hole  in  the  wall. — 
The  piggy  girl.- — Queen  Aster. — The  brownie  and  the  princess. — A  Christmas  turkey  and 
how  it  came. — The  blind  lark. — The  little  red  purse. — Sophie's  secret. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A35smy 

My  boys  [and  other  stories].     Little.     (Aunt  Jo's  scrap-bag,  v.i.) 

The  boys  described  in  the  first  story  are  real  boys  whom  Miss  Alcott  knew.  One 
of  them  is  especially  interesting  as  being  the  original  of  Laurie  in  "Little  women." 

Other  stories:  Tessa's  surprises. — Buzz. — The  children's  joke. — Dandelion. — Madam 
Cluck  and  her  family. — A  curious  call. — Tilly's  Christmas. — My  little  gentleman. — Back 
windows. — Little  Marie  of  Lehon.- — My  May-day  among  curious  birds  and  beasts. — Our 
little  newsboy. — Patty's  patchwork. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A3551TI 

My  girls   [and  other  stories].     Little.     (Aunt  Jo's  scrap-bag,  v.4.) 

Other  stories:  Lost  in  a  London  fog. — The  boys' joke,  and  who  got  the  best  of  it. — 
Roses  and  forget-me-nots. — Old  Major. — What  the  girls  did. — Little  neighbors. — Mar- 
jorie's  three  gifts. — Patty's  place. — The  autobiography  of  an  omnibus. — Red  tulips. — A 
happy  birthday. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A3550 

Old-fashioned  girl.     Little. 

Polly  may  be  only  an  old-fashioned  girl,  but  she  is  so  merry  and  so  lovable  that 
girls  like  to  read  about  her  first  visit  to  a  large  city  and  about  her  experiences  when, 
six  years  later,  she  returned  to  earn  her  living  by  giving  music  lessons. 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  full-page  pictures  by  Jessie  Willcox  Smith. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A3550I 

Old-fashioned  Thanksgiving  [and  other  stories].  Little.  (Aunt 
Jo's  scrap-bag,  v.6.) 

Other  stories:  How  it  all  happened. — The  dolls'  journey  from  Minnesota  to  Maine. 
— Morning-glories. — Shadow-children. — Poppy's  pranks. — What  the  swallows  did.— Little 
Gulliver. — The  whale's  story. — A  strange  island. — Fancy's  friend. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355P 

Proverb  stories.     Little. 

Contents:  Kitty's  class  day. — Aunt  Kipp. — Psyche's  art. — A  country  Christmas. — 
On  picket  duty. — The  baron's  gloves. — My  red  cap. — What  the  bells  saw  and  said. 

The  new  illustrated  edition   has  eight  full-page  pictures. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355r 

Rose  in  bloom;  a  sequel  to  Eight  cousins.     Little. 
The  new  illustrated  edition  has   full-page  pictures  by  Harriet  Roosevelt  Richards. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355SI1 

Shawl-straps.     Little.     (Aunt  Jo's  scrap-bag,  v.2.) 

Contents:      Off. — Brittany. — France. — Switzerland. — Italy. — London. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355si 

Silver  pitchers,  and  other  stories.     Little. 

Other  stories:  Anna's  whim. — Transcendental  wild  oats. — Romance  of  a  summer 
day. — My  rococo  watch. — By  the  river. — Letty's  tramp. — Scarlet  stockings. — Independ- 
ence; a  Centennial  love  story. 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  eight   full-page  pictures. 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A355S 

Spinning-wheel  stories.     Little. 

Contents:  Grandma's  story. — Tabby's  table-cloth. — Eli's  education. — Onawandah. — 
Little  things. — The  banner  of  Beaumanoir. — Jerseys  ;  or,  The  girl's  ghost. — The  little 
house  in  the  garden. — Daisy's  jewel-box  and  how  she  filled  it. — Corny's  catamount. — 
The  cooking-class. — The  hare  and  the  tortoise. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.11-12,  Jan.   1884-Jan.  1885. 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  eight  full-page  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  15 

Alcott,  Louisa  May.  j  A35511 

Under  the  lilacs.     Little. 

Story  of  a  stray  circus  boy  and  the  good  friends  he  found  for  himself  and  his  dog 
in  the  old  house  among  the  lilacs. 

The  new  illustrated  edition  has  full-page  pictures  by  Alice  Barber  Stephens. 

Alden,  Raymond  Macdonald.  j  A358W2 

Why  the  chimes  rang  [and  other  stories].     Bobbs. 

Other  stories:  The  knights  of  the  silver  shield. — The  boy  who  discovered  the 
spring. — The  brook  in  the  king's  garden. — The  hunt  for  the  beautiful. — The  boy  who 
went  out  of  the  world.- — The  palace  made  by  music. — The  forest  full  of  friends. — The 
bag  of  smiles. — The  castle  under  the  sea. — In  the  great  walled  country. 

Alden,  William  Livingston.  j  A359C 

Cruise  of  the  Canoe  club.     Harper. 

Follows  "Cruise  of  the  'Ghost.'  " 
Alden,  William  Livingston.  j  A35gcr 

Cruise  of  the  "Ghost."     Harper. 

Sequel  to  "Moral  pirates."  Four  boys  take  a  cruise  in  a  sail-boat  through  Long 
Island  sound.  They  have  various  adventures  with  river  pirates,  oystermen,  a  life- 
saving  crew  and  a  shipwrecked  brig. 

Alden,  William  Livingston.  j  A3591T1 

Moral  pirates.     Harper. 

Story  of  four  New  York  boys  and  their  summer  trip  up  the  Hudson  in  the  White- 
wing.  A  "soup  explosion"  and  a  chase  after  their  runaway  boat  are  among  their  ex- 
periences. 

Alden,  William  Livingston.  j  A35gn 

New  Robinson  Crusoe.     Harper. 

Humorous  story  of  an  Irish  boy  and  an  insane  man,  who  were  wrecked  in  the  south 
Pacific.  The  insane  man  claimed  to  be  the  grandson  of  Robinson  Crusoe  and  insisted 
upon  living  just  as  his  grandfather  did. 

Aldon,  Adair.  j  A364i 

Island  of  Appledore,  with  illustrations  by  W.  B.  King.    Macmillan. 

Tale  of  mysteries  and  perils  and  midnight  adventures.  The  time  is  that  of  the 
European  war  and  the  hero  a  boy  of  16  who  helps  to  foil  a  German  plot. 

Aldrich,  Thomas  Bailey,  ed. 

Book  of  famous  poems.     See  his  Famous  poems. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Aldrich,  Thomas  Bailey,  ed.  j  821.08  A36 

Famous  poems.     1902.    Hall  &  Locke.     (Young  folks'  library,  v.20.) 

"A  treasure-house  behold! 
A  store  more  precious  than  the  minted  gold 
The  poets  from  all  times  and  from  all  lands 
Have  given   here  into  your  blessed  hands." 

Contains  such  famous  poems  as  The  eve  of  Waterloo. — Rime  of  the  ancient  mariner. 
— The  skeleton  in  armor. — Bugle  song. — The  chambered  nautilus. — The  three  fishers. — 
O  captain!  my  captain! — The  high  tide  on  the  coast  of  Lincolnshire. — Chevy-Chase. — 
Recessional. 

Same  as  "Book  of  famous  poems." 

Aldrich,  Thomas  Bailey.  j  A365S 

Story  of  a  bad  boy.     Houghton. 

The  author  tells  of  his  own  boy  life  in  a  New  England  sea-coast  town — of  the 
famous  snowball  battles  on  Slatter's  hill,  the  private  theatricals  in  the  Bailey  barn,  the 
adventures  of  a  Fourth,  the  cruise  of  the  Dolphin,  the  secret  order  of  the  R.  M.  C.  and 
the    midnight   bombardment    of    Rivcrmouth. 

The  visitors'  edition  has  16  photographic  illustrations.  The  holiday  edition  has 
many  humorous  pictures  by  A.  B.  Frost. 


16  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Alexander,  Georgia.  j  372.4  A37P 

Primer.     1909.     Bobbs.     (Child  classics.) 
Many  pictures  by  F.  Y.  Cory. 

Alexander,  Georgia.  j  372.4  A37 

First  reader.     1909.     Bobbs.     (Child  classics.) 

Nursery  rhymes  and  simple  stories  adapted  from  well  known  myths  and  fairy  tales. 
Good  pictures. 

Alexander,   Georgia.  j  808.8  A37S 

Second  reader.     1909.    Bobbs.     (Child  classics.) 

Fables  from  yEsop,  easy  poems,  fairy  and  folk  tales  and  legendary  stories.  Good 
pictures. 

Alexander,  Georgia.  j  808.8  A37t 

Third  reader.     1909.     Bobbs.     (Child  classics.) 

"List  of  books  for  home  reading,"  p. 256. 

Includes  The  skylark's  spurs. — The  wonderful  world. — The  wonderful  tar-baby. — 
The  miller,  his  son  and  the  donkey. — The  last  lesson  in  French. — A  mad  tea  party. — 
What  the  old  man  does  is  always  right. — The  husband  who  was  to  mind  the  house. — The 
broken  flower-pot. — The  leak  in  the  dike. — The  lad  who  went  to  the  North  Wind. 

Alexander,  Georgia,  &  Alexander,  Grace.  j  808.8  A371 

Fourth  reader.     1909.     Bobbs.     (Child  classics.) 

"List  of  books  f6r  home  reading,"  p. 284-285. 

Partial  contents:  Baron  Miinchhausen  in  Russia. — The  merry  pranks  of  Till  Owl- 
glass. — How  they  brought  the  good  news  from  Ghent  to  Aix. — Christmas  at  the  Cratchits'. 
— How  Thor  went  to  the  land  of  giants. — Incident  of  the  French  camp. — Joan  of  Arc. — 
William  Tell. — Titania  and  Oberon. 

Alexander,  Georgia,  &  Alexander,  Grace.  j  808.8  A37 

Fifth  reader.     1909.     Bobbs.     (Child  classics.) 

"List  of  books  for  home  reading,"  p.379-381. 

Selections  from  Shelley,  Tennyson,  Emerson,  Scott,  Lowell,  Mrs  Gaskell,  Ruskin, 
Holmes,  Kipling,  Dickens,  Charles  Lamb,  etc. 

Allen,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  92  C886al 

David  Crockett,  scout.     191 1.     Lippincott. 

Allen,  Eldreth  Gordon,  &  Cotton,  F.  A.  j  684  A42 

Manual  training  for  common  schools;  an  organized  course  in  wood- 
working.    1910.     Scribner. 

Illustrates  and  describes  ordinary  tools  and  approved  methods  of  woodworking  and 
wood  finishing.  Course  is  intended  for  seventh  and  eighth  grades  and  first  and  second 
years  in  high  school. 

Allen,  Nellie  Burnham.  j  915  A42 

Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  Asia.     1916.     Ginn. 
Supplementary   reader   for   grammar   grades,    describing   the   different    countries   of 

Asia,  their  resources  and  industries,  the  lives,  customs  and  ideals  of  the  people.     "Topics 

for  study"  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.     Many  pictures. 

Allen,  Nellie  Burnham.  j  609.4  A42 

Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  Europe.     1913.     Ginn. 
With  the  author  one  may  visit  the  villages  and  plains,  the  manufacturing  cities  and 

busy  seaports,  the  vineyards,  olive  orchards  and  flax  fields  of  Europe  and  see  the  people 

at  work.      Good   for   supplementary   reading   in   the   grammar   grades.      Maps  and   many 

pictures. 

Allen,  Nellie  Burnham.  j  918  A42 

Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  South  America.     1918.     Ginn. 

Supplementary  reader  for  grammar  grades,  describing  the  different  countries  of 
South  America;  their  people,   resources  and  industries.     Good  maps  and  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  17 

Allen,  Nellie  Burnham.  j  609.73  A42 

Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  United  States.     1910.     Ginn. 
Contents:     Introduction. — Position   and   size. — Surface  and  drainage. — Climate   and 

soil. — Waterways  and  railroads. — Cotton. — Sugar. — Fruit. — Wheat. — Corn. — Coal. — Iron. 

— Gold   and   silver. — Cattle   and   beef   industry. — Sheep    and   wool    industry. — Lumbering 

and  allied  industries. — Fisheries. 

Allen,  Thomas  Gaskell,  &  Sachtleben,  W.  L.  j  915  A43 

Across  Asia  on  a  bicycle.     1897.     Century. 
Journey  of  two  American  students  from  Constantinople  to  Peking. 

Allen,  Willis  Boyd.  j  A432n 

Navy  blue;  a  story  of  cadet  life  in  the  United  States  Naval  Academy 
at  Annapolis.     Dutton. 

Allen,  Willis  Boyd.  j  A432P 

The  Pineboro  quartette.     Page. 

How  some  young  people  started  a  paper  and  made  money  in  running  it. 

Allingham,  William.  j  821  A43 

Rhymes  for  the  young  folk,  with  pictures  by  Helen  Allingham  [and 

others.]      [1915.]     Warne. 

Poems  of  elves  and  fairies,  birds  and  children.     Fanciful  and  childlike. 

Alton,  Edmund,  (pseud,  of  Edmund  Bailey).  j  328.73  A46 

Among  the  law-makers.     1892.    Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 12-13,   Nov.    1884-March   1886. 

The  author  when  a  boy  was  a  page  in  the  Senate  and  he  tells  about  Congress  and 
about  the  great  men  on  whom  the  pages  waited.  Some  of  the  chapters  are,  Assembling 
of  Congress.- — Secret  sessions. — An  inauguration. — The  Federal  judiciary. — Night  session 
informalities. — An   impeachment   trial. — Constitutional   limitations. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466a 

Apache  gold;  a  story  of  the  strange  Southwest.     Appleton. 

Hunting  for  the  lost  treasure  of  the  Spaniards  in  the  land  of  the  cliff-dwellers, 
Charles  Wayne,  a  border  lad,  has  terrifying  encounters  with  wild  beasts  and  Apache 
Indians. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466b 

The  border  watch;  a  story  of  the  great  chief's  last  stand.   Appleton. 

Period  of  the  border  struggle  between  red  man  and  white  along  the  Ohio.  The 
daring  exploits  of  the  "Young  trailers"  and  their  comrades  of  the  woods  help  to  bring 
about  the  defeat  of  the  great  Wyandot  chief  and  his  Indian  allies  by  Clark  and  Logan. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466f 

Forest  runners;  a  story  of  the  great  war  trail  in  early  Kentucky. 

Appleton. 

Adventures  of  two  boys  in  Kentucky  in  the  early  days  of  its  settlement.  Scqu<-1  to 
"Young  trailers"  and  followed  by  "Keepers  of  the  trail." 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466g 

The  guns  of  Bull  Run;  a  story  of  the  Civil  war's  eve.     Appleton. 
Begins  with  the  secession  of   South   Carolina  and  the  attack  on   Fort    Sumter   and 
ends  with  the  battle  of  Bull   Run.     A  young  Kentuckian  sent  with  messages  to  Charles- 
ton enlists  in   the   Palmetto  Guards  and  shares  in  many  stirring  events  of  the  early  days 
of  conflict. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466gun 

The   guns  of   Europe.     Grosset.      (Every  boy's   library;   boy   scout 

edition.) 

Adventures    of   a    young    American    who    unexpectedly    becomes    associated    with    a 

daring   French  aviator  and  spy,  has  a  thrilling  escape   from  Austria  at  the  outbreak  of 

the  European  war  and  enlists  as  a  volunteer  on  the  side  of  the  allies. 


i8  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466gu 

The  guns  of  Shiloh;  a  story  of  the  great  Western  campaign.  Ap- 
pleton. 

"In  'The  guns  of  Bull  Run'  the  Civil  war  and  its  beginnings  are  seen  through  the 
eyes  of  Harry  Kenton,  who  is  on  the  Southern  side.  In  'The  guns  of  Shiloh'  the 
mighty  struggle  takes  its  color  from  the  view  of  Dick  Mason,  who  fights  for  the  North 
and  who  is  with  Grant  in  his  first  great  campaign."     Foreword. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466I1 

The  horsemen  of  the  plains;  a  story  of  the  great  Cheyenne  war. 
Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Story  of  a  young  man  who  joins  a  party  of  trappers  and  goes  to  unexplored  country 
in  the  West,  where  he  takes  part  in  the  great  Cheyenne  war. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466k 

Keepers  of  the  trail;  a  story  of  the  great  woods.    Appleton. 

The  "young  trailers"  defend  the  frontier  settlements  against  an  attack  by  the 
British  and  Indians.     Third  in  the  series. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466S 

Scouts  of  Stonewall;  the  story  of  the  great  valley  campaign.  Ap- 
pleton. 

Third  in  the  Civil  war  series.  Harry  Kenton,  the  hero  of  "The  guns  of  Bull  Run," 
is  assigned  to  duty  as  aide  on  the  staff  of  Stonewall  Jackson  and  follows  him  through 
the  Valley  of  Virginia  campaign. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466SI1 

Shades  of  the  Wilderness;  a  story  of  Lee's  great  stand.    Appleton. 
Seventh  in  the  Civil  war  series. 

"Reverts  to  the  Southern  side  and  deals  with  the  fortunes  of  Harry  Kenton  and 
his  friends.  It  takes  them  on  the  retreat  from  Gettysburg,  gives  the  hero  a  short  period 
of  social  life  in  Richmond,  describes  the  great  battles  of  the  Wilderness  and  Spottsyl- 
vania,  and  ends  with  the  deadlock   in   the  trenches  before  Petersburg."     Foreword. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466st 

Star  of  Gettysburg;  a  story  of  Southern  high  tide.     Appleton. 

Fifth  in  the  Civil  war  series.  The  story  centers  about  the  young  Southern  hero, 
Harry  Kenton,  and  the  three  great  battles,  Fredericksburg,  the  Wilderness  and  Gettys- 
burg, are  described.  Stonewall  Jackson  and  Gen.  Lee  are  among  the  historical  char- 
acters. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466SW 

Sword  of  Antietam;  a  story  of  the  nation's  crisis.     Appleton. 

This  fourth  volume  in  the  Civil  war  series  continues  the  adventures  of  Dick  Mason, 
hero  of  "The  guns  of  Shiloh."  He  shares  in  the  heroic  fight  against  the  triumphant 
genius  of  Lee  and  Jackson  and  takes  part  in  the  battles  of  Second  Manassas,  Antietam 
and  Murfreesborough.  The  Northern  point  of  view  is  given,  and  McClellan  is  the  chief 
historical  character. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466t 

The  Texan  scouts;  a  story  of  the  Alamo  and  Goliad.    Appleton. 

Adventures  in  the  time  of  the  Texan  war.  Crockett,  Bowie  and  Santa  Anna  are 
among  the  characters. 

Altsheler,  Joseph  Alexander.  j  A466y 

Young  trailers;  a  story  of  early  Kentucky.     Appleton. 

Hero  is  a  boy  of  15  who  hunts  and  fishes,  has  a  narrow  escape  from  a  forest  fire 
and  from  wolves,  is  captured  by  Indians  and  finally  saves  the  white  settlement  from 
massacre. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  19 

Amadis  of  Gaul.  j  A481IC 

A  knight  errant  and  his  doughty  deeds;  the  story  of  Amadis  of 
Gaul;  ed.  by  N.  J.  Davidson.     Seeley. 

How  Amadis  was  found  by  a  Scottish  knight,  of  his  knighting,  his  quest  for  adven- 
tures and  his  wondrous  exploits.  The  story  is  taken  from  Robert  Southey's  translation 
of  the  old  romance,  "Amadis  of  Gaul,"  which  has  been  called  the  best  of  all  the  romances 
of  chivalry.     Colored  pictures  of  knights  and  ladies. 

Ambrosi,  Marietta. 

Italian  child-life;  or,  Marietta's  good  times.  See  her  When  I  was  a 
girl  in  Italy. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Ambrosi,  Marietta.  j  914.5  A49 

When  I  was  a  girl  in  Italy.  1906.  Lothrop.  (Children  of  other 
lands  books.) 

About  Christmas  eve  and  other  holiday  celebrations,  the  annual  fair  and  the  pan- 
tomimes, the  markets  and  the  care  of  silkworms. 

Same   as   her  "Italian   child-life;    or,   Marietta's   good  times." 

Ames,  Fisher,  jr.  j  Asi3b 

Boys  of  Eastmarsh.     Crowell. 

The  boys  live  in  a  New  England  sea-coast  town.  Story  tells  of  their  outdoor  life 
and  adventures. 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de.  j  A516C 

Cuore;  an  Italian  school-boy's  journal;  tr.  by  I.  F.  Hapgood.  Crowell. 

Same  as  "Heart;  a  school-boy's  journal." 

Includes  stories  of  courage  and  patriotism  told  by  the  schoolmaster.  Among  them 
are,  The  little  patriot  of  Padua. — The  little  vidette  of  Lombardy. — The  Sardinian  drum- 
mer-boy.— Blood  of  Romagna. — The  shipwreck. 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de.  j  853  A51C 

Cuore;  libro  per  i  ragazzi. 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de.  j  853  Asif 

Fra  scuola  e  casa. 

Contents:  II  libraio  dei  ragazzi. — Un  dramraa  nella  scuola. — Latinorum. — Ai  fan- 
ciulli  del  Rio  della  Plata. — Amore  e  ginnastica. — II  professor  Padalocchi. — Un  poeta 
sconosciuto. — La  maestrino  degli  operai. — La  scuola  in  casa. 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de. 

Heart;  a  school-boy's  journal.  Sec  his  Cuore;  an  Italian  school- 
boy's journal. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de.  j  853  A511T1 

La  maestrina  degli  operai;  racconto. 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de.  j  853  Asm 

Novelle. 

Contents:  Gli  amici  di  collegio. — Camilla. — Furio. — Un  gran  giorno. — Alberto. — 
Fortezza. — La  casa  paterna. 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de.  j  854  A51 

Pagine  sparse. 

Contents:     La  mia  padrona  di  casa. — Scoraggiamcnti. — Ritratto  di  un  ordinanza. — 
Battaglia  di  tavolino. — Un  incontro. — Emilio  Castelar. — Un  caro  pedante.      Una  visita  .1  1 
Alessandro  Manzoni. — La  lettura  del   vocabolario. — Appunti. — Una  parola   nuova. — Con- 
sigli. — II  vivente  linguaggio  della  Toscana. — Quello  che  si  pud  imparare  a   Fin 
Un   bel   parlatore. — Dall'    album    di    un    padre. — Sopra   una   culla. — Giovanni    Ruffini. 
L'amore  dei  libri. — Manuel   Menendez;  racconto. — In  sogno. 


20  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Amicis,  Edmondo  de.  j  914.6  A51 

Spagna.     1908. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  A544fy4 

Faery  tales;  tr.  by  Mrs  E.  Lucas,  illustrated  by  Maxwell  Armfield. 
Dent. 

Contains  many  delightful  tales.  Among  them  the  sad  story  of  the  steadfast  tin 
soldier  and  the  little  dancer,  the  strange  tale  of  Thumbelisa,  whose  height  was  scarcely 
half  a  thumb's  length,  and  the  story  of  the  beautiful  princess  who  saved  her  1 1  brothers 
from  enchantment. 

Twenty-four  delightful  illustrations  in  color. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  As44fy 

Fairy  tales;  tr.  by  Mrs  E.  Lucas.     Dent. 

Thirty-eight  stories,  including  The  wild  swans. — The  real  princess. — The  steadfast 
tin  soldier. — Great  Claus  and  little  Claus. — The  snow  queen. — -The  tinder  box. — The 
swineherd. — The   ugly   duckling.      Many   pictures. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  A5441S 

Fairy  tales;  tr.  by  H.  O.  Sommer,  with  24  pictures  in  colour  by 
Cecile  Walton.     Stokes. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  A544fai2 

Fairy  tales,  with  illustrations  by  Helen  Stratton.     Lippincott. 
Contains   15  tales. 

The  same,  with  an  introduction  by  E.  E.  Hale.     Lippincott. qj  A544fai 
Contains  34  tales. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  qj  A544fai3 

Fairy  tales,  with  illustrations  by  W.  H.  Robinson.     Holt. 

Contents:  The  marsh  king's  daughter. — Tommelise. — The  snow  queen. — Elfin- 
mount. — -The  little  mermaid. — The  storks. — The  nightingale. — The  wild  swans. — The 
real  princess. — The  red  shoes. — The  emperor's  new  clothes. — The  swineherd. — The  fly- 
ing trunk. — The  leaping  match. — The  shepherdess  and  the  chimney-sweeper. — The  ugly 
duckling. — The  naughty  boy. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  A544fais 

Fairy  tales,  with  introduction  by  Edward  Clodd;  illustrations  by 
Gordon  Browne.     Stokes. 

Twenty-five  stories,  with  many  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  qj  A544fr 

Fairy  tales  and  stories;  tr.  from  the  Danish  by  H.  L.  Brsekstad. 

Century. 

Edition  prepared  by  the  Danish  government   in  honor  of  the   100th   anniversary  of 

Andersen's  birth.     Illustrated  by  Hans  Tegner. 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  A544fai4 

Fairy  tales  and  wonder  stories,  with  illustrations  by  Louis  Rhead 
and  an  introduction  by  W.  D.  Howells.     Harper. 

Forty-three  stories,'  including  The  ugly  duckling. — The  snow-queen. — -The  wild 
swans. — The  constant  tin  soldier. — "What  the  goodman  does  is  sure  to  be  right." — 
Thumbling. — The  princess  on  the  pea. — "It's  quite  true." 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  833  A54 

Sammtliche  marchen;  deutsch  von  Julius  Reuscher. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  21 

Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  qj  A544S3 

Stories,  with  illustrations  by   Edmund  Dulac.     Hodder. 
Contents:     The  snow  queen. — The  nightingale. — The  real  princess. — The  garden  of 
paradise. — The  mermaid. — The  emperor's  new  clothes. — The  wind's  tale. 

The  beautiful  colored  plates  show  the  clever  princess  who  had  read  all  the  news- 
papers in  the  world  and  forgotten  them  again  and  that  other  princess  who  felt  the  pea 
through  :o  mattresses  and  20  feather  beds,  the  snow  queen  sitting  on  her  throne  in  the 
midst  of  the  frozen  lake  and  the  wicked  hobgoblin  who  invented  the  distorting  mirror, 
the  Chinese  emperor  and  his  gentlemen-in-waiting,  and  many  other  Hans  Andersen 
characters. 

Andersen,  Hans   Christian.  j  A544S 

Stories  and  tales.     Houghton. 
Andersen,  Hans  Christian.  j  A544W 

Wonder  stories  told  for  children.     Houghton. 
Anderson,  Rasmus  Bjorn,  tr.  j  839.6  A54 

Viking  tales  of  the  North;  the  sagas  of  Thorstein,  Viking's  son  and 
Fridthjof  the  Bold;  tr.  from  the  Icelandic,  also  Tegner's  Fridthjof's 
saga;  tr.  by  George  Stephens.     1889.     Scott. 

Sketch  of  the  life  and  career  of  Tegner,  by  F.  M.   Franzen,  p.  1 19-145. 

Andrews,  Jane.  j  910  As6e 

Each  and  all;  the  seven  little  sisters  prove  their  sisterhood.     1905. 

Ginn. 

Stories  of  little  girls  living  in  different  parts  of  the  world.     Sequel  to  "Seven  little 

sisters." 

Andrews,  Jane.  j  910  A56S 

Seven  little  sisters  who  live  on  the  round  ball  that  floats  in  the  air. 

1895.     Ginn. 

The   seven    little   sisters  are,   the   little   brown   baby;   Agoonack,    the   Eskimo   sister; 

Gemila,  the  child  of  the  desert;  Jeannette,  the  Swiss  maiden;   Pen-se,  the  Chinese  girl; 

Manenko,  the  little  dark  girl;   Louise,  the  child  of  the  beautiful   Rhine. 

Andrews,  Jane.  j  570.4  A56 

Stories  Mother  Nature  told  her  children.  1894.  Ginn. 
Contents:  Story  of  the  amber  beads. — The  new  life. — The  talk  of  the  trees  that 
stand  in  the  village  street. — How  the  Indian  corn  grows. — Water-lilies. — The  carrying 
trade. — Sea-life. — What  the  frost  giants  did  to  Nannie's  run. — How  Quercus  Alba  went 
to  explore  the  underworld. — Treasure-boxes. — A  peep  into  one  of  God's  storehouses. — 
The  hidden  light. — Sixty-two  little  tadpoles. — Golden-rod  and  asters. 

Andrews,  Jane.  j  904  A56 

Ten  boys  who  lived  on  the  road  from  long  ago  to  now.     1913.     Ginn. 
Stories  of  Kablu,  the  Aryan  boy;    Darius,  the  Persian   toy;   Cleon,  the  Greek   boj  ; 
Horatius,  the  Roman  boy;  Wulf,  the  Saxon  boy;  Gilbert,  the  knight's  page;   Roger,   the 
English  boy;   Ezekicl   Fuller,   the   Puritan  boy;  Jonathan   Dawson,  the   Yankee  boy,   and 
Frank   Wilson,  the  boy  of  1885. 

Andrews,  Mrs  Marian.     Sec  Hare,  Christopher,  pseud. 

Andrews,  Mary  Raymond  Shipman.  j   A568P 

The  perfect  tribute.     Scribner. 

Appeared  in   "Scribner's  magazine,"  v. 40,  July  1906. 

How  a  wounded  Confederate  soldier  in  a  Washington  hospital  paid  "the  perfect 
tribute"  to   Lincoln's  Gettysburg  address. 

Anthony,  Gardner  Chace.  j  744  A62e2 

Elements  of  mechanical  drawing;  use  of  instruments,  geometrical 
problems  and  projection.     1906.     Heath. 


22  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Antin,  Mary,  afterward  Mrs  Grabau.  j  92  A63ia 

The  promised  land.     1912.     Houghton. 

Appeared  in  the  "Atlantic  monthly,"  v.108— 109,  Oct.   igii-jApril   1912. 

Autobiography  of  an  immigrant  who  was  born  less  than  30  years  ago  (1912)  in 
Polotzk,  Russia,  a  town  in  the  Jewish  pale,  and  spent  her  childhood  there.  Her  family 
being  driven  by  the  pressure  of  poverty  to  emigrate,  when  she  was  12  years  old  she  was 
brought  to  America,  where  she  made  a  brilliant  progress  through  the  public  schools  of 
Boston  and  through  Barnard  College.  The  story  of  her  life  is  absorbing  in  its  human 
significance,  remarkable  for  its  literary  distinction  and  convincingly  hopeful  in  its  view 
of  the  immigrant  problem  in  America. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  j  398  A6san 

Arabian  nights;  ed.  with  an  introduction  by  W.  H.  D.  Rouse,  illus- 
trated by  Walter  Paget.     [1907.]     Nister. 

Contents:  The  merchant  and  the  genie. — Story  of  the  fisherman. — The  enchanted 
horse.— Story  of  Aladdin;  or,  The  wonderful  lamp. — Ali  Baba. — Story  of  Kummir  al 
Zummaun  and  Badoura,  princess  of  China. — Sindbad  the  sailor. — Story  of  the  little 
hunchback. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  j  398  A6saw 

Arabian  nights;  their  best-known  tales  ed.  by  K.  D.  Wiggin  and 
N.  A.  Smith;  illustrated  by  Maxfield  Parrish.     1909.     Scribner. 

Contents:  The  talking  bird,  the  singing  tree  and  the  golden  water. — Story  of  the 
fisherman  and  the  genie. — History  of  the  young  king  of  the  Black  isles. — Story  of  Gul- 
nare  of  the  sea. — Story  of  Aladdin;  or,  The  wonderful  lamp.— Story  of  Prince  Agib. — 
Story  of  the  city  of  brass.- — Story  of  Ali  Baba  and  the  forty  thieves. — History  of 
Codadad  and  his  brothers. — Story  of  Sinbad  the  voyager. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  qj  398  A6sab 

Arabian  nights,  with  illustrations  by  Rene  Bull.     [1912.]     Dodd. 
Ten  color  plates  and  many  black  and  white  drawings. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  j  398  A6sao 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments,  based  on  a  translation  from  the 
Arabic  by  E.  W.  Lane;  selected,  ed.  and  arranged  for  young  people 
by  F.  J.  Olcott,  with  illustrations  by  M.  S.  Orr.     1913.     Holt. 

Includes  among  other  tales  the  story  of  the  bottled  genii  and  the  afrite  of  the 
black  stone  pillar,  "The  adventures  of  Hassan  of  Balsora,"  which  describes  the  wonders 
of  the  enchanted  islands  of  Wak  Wak,  and  the  humorous  story  of  Caliph  the  fisherman. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  j  398  A6sar 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.  1898.  Long- 
mans. 

Includes  among  others,  The  story  of  the  fisherman. — The  story  of  the  Greek  king 
and  the  physician  Douban. — The  seven  voyages  of  Sindbad  the  sailor. — The  little  hunch- 
back.— Aladdin  and  the  wonderful  lamp. — The  enchanted  horse. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  j  398  A6512 

Fairy  tales  from  the  Arabian  nights;  ed.  by  E.  Dixon.  [1907.]  Put- 
nam. 

Good  selection  of  stories,  including  "Sindbad  the  sailor,"  "The  enchanted  horse," 
"Ali  Baba,"  "The  fisherman  and  the  genie,"  and  "Aladdin."     Well  illustrated. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  j  398  A6saol 

More  tales  from  the  Arabian  nights;  based  on  the  translation  from 
the  Arabic  by  E.  W.  Lane;  selected,  ed.  and  arranged  for  young  people 
by  F.  J.  Olcott;  illustrations  and  decorations  by  Willy  Pogany.  1915. 
Holt. 

Contents:  Story  of  the  hunchback. — Story  of  Prince  Camaralzaman  and  the  prin- 
cess   Badoura. — Story   of   Joudar. — Story    of    Mahomed    Ali    the    jeweller,    or    the    false 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  23 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments — continued.  j  398  A6saol 

caliph.— Story  of  AH  of  Cairo. — Story  of  Abou  Mahomed  the  lazy. — Story  of  Abdallah 
of  the  land  and  Abdallah  of  the  sea. — Story  of  Prince  Ahmed  and  the  fairy  Periebanou. 
— Story  of  the  princess  Periezade  and  the  speaking  bird,  the  singing  tree,  and  the  golden 
water. 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments.  j  398  A6ssh 

Stories  from  the  Arabian  nights;  retold  by  Laurence  Housman, 
with   [24]   drawings  by  Edmund  Dulac.     [1911.]      Hodder. 

Contents:  AH  Baba  and  the  forty  thieves. — The  story  of  the  wicked  half-brothers. 
— The  story  of  the  princess  of  Deryabar. — The  story  of  the  magic  horse. — The  fisherman 
and  the  genie. — The  story  of  the  king  of  the  Ebony  isles. 

The  same,  with    [50]    drawings  by  Edmund  Dulac.     Hod- 
der  qj  398  A6ssh2 

Archer,  Effie  Archer.  j  646  A67 

Needlecraft.  1911.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library  of  work  and 
play.) 

Includes  different  kinds  of  embroidery,  easy  lace  stitches,  stenciling,  leather  work, 
drawn-work,  crocheting,  knitting  and  bead  work. 

Arey,  Albert  Llewellyn,  and  others.  j  551  A68 

Physiography  for  high  schools.     191 1.     Heath. 

Contents:     The  earth  as  a  planet. — The  air. — The  sea. — The  land. 
Armstrong,  Douglas  B.  j  383.2  A73 

Boys'  book  of  stamp  collecting.     [1914.]     Stokes. 

Includes  chapters  on  the  manufacture  and  history  of  postage  stamps,  famous  stamp 
finds  and  special  collections.     Illustrated. 

[Arnim,  Mary  Annette  (Beauchamp),  grafin  von.]  j  A74ga 

April  baby's  book  of  tunes,  with  the  story  of  how  they  came  to  be 

written.     Macmillan. 

"Little  Polly  Flinders,"   "Mary,   Mary,  quite  contrary,"   "Little   Miss   Muffet"   and 

other  nursery  rhymes  are  set  to  music  for  the  amusement  of  three  little  girls.     Colored 

illustrations  by  Kate  Greenaway. 

Arnold,  Emma  Josephine.  j  930  A75 

Stories  of  ancient  peoples.     1901.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  The  Egyptians. — The  dwellers  in  Babylonia  and  Assyria. — The  Hittites. 
— The  Phoenicians. — The  Hebrews. — The  Medes  and  Persians. — The  Hindus. — The 
Chinese. 

"List  of  authorities  and  reference  books,"  p. 227-228. 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise.  j  372.4  A75 

Arnold  primer.     1901.     Silver. 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75 

First  reader.     1897.     Silver.     (Stepping  stones  to  literature.) 

Attractively  illustrated. 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75S 

Second  reader.     1897.     Silver.     (Stepping  stones  to  literature.) 
Fables,  nursery  tales,  short  stories  and  poems.     Illustrated. 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75t 

Third  reader.     1897.     Silver.     (Stepping  stones  to  literature.) 
Fairy  tales,  fables,  poems,  etc. 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75f 

Fourth  reader.     1897.     Silver.     (Stepping  stones  to  literature.) 

Principally  Greek  myths  and  wonder  stories.  Amon.i;  tin  in.  Aladdin;  or.  The  won- 
derful lamp. — The  water  babies. — The  brown  dwarf  of  Riigen. — The  quarrel  of  the  god- 
desses.— The  Trojan  war. 


24  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75r 

Reader  for  fifth  grades.  1897.  Silver.  (Stepping  stones  to  litera- 
ture.) 

Norse  myths,  historical  tales  and  poems,  nature  readings  and  imaginative  stories, 
such  as  "The  king  of  the  Golden  river." 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75re 

Reader  for  sixth  grades.  1897.  Silver.  (Stepping  stones  to  litera- 
ture.) 

Legendary  and  historical  tales  and  poems,  such  as  Rip  Van  Winkle. — Landing  of 
the  Pilgrim  Fathers.— Arnold  von  Winkelried. — The  eve  of  Waterloo. — The  Horatii  and 
the  Curiatii. — Horatius  at  the  bridge. — William  Tell. 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75rea 

Reader   for    seventh    grades.      1898.      Silver.      (Stepping    stones    to 

literature.) 

Selections  from  American  authors,  many  of  them  historical  or  patriotic. 

Partial  contents:     Legend  of  the  Moor's  legacy. — The  courtship  of  Miles  Standish. 

— The  gray   champion. — The   rising  in    1776. — The   deathbed   of   Benedict   Arnold. — The 

chambered  nautilus. — Supposed  speech  of  John   Adams. — The  angels  of  Buena  Vista. — - 

Lincoln's  address  at  Gettysburg. — Thanatopsis. 

Arnold,  Sarah  Louise,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  j  808.8  A75rd 

Reader  for  higher  grades.  1898.  Silver.  (Stepping  stones  to  liter- 
ature.) 

Selections  from  English  authors. 

Partial  contents:  The  deserted  village. — Overthrow  of  Belshazzar. — The  passing  of 
Arthur. — Pickwick's  drive  to  the  manor  farm. — The  battle  of  Blenheim. — King  Henry 
the  Eighth. — Recessional. 

Asbjornsen,  Peter  Christen,  &  Moe,  Jorgen.  qj  398  A7ge 

East  of  the  sun  and  west  of  the  moon;  old  tales  from  the  North; 
illustrated  by  Kay  Nielsen.     Hodder. 

Contents:  East  of  the  sun  and  west  of  the  moon. — The  blue  belt. — Prince  Lind- 
worm. — The  lassie  and  her  godmother. — The  husband  who  was  to  mind  the  house. — The 
lad  who  went  to  the  North  Wind. — The  three  princesses  of  Whiteland. — Soria  Moria 
castle. — The  giant  who  had  no  heart  in  his  body. — The  princess  on  the  glass  hill. — The 
widow's  son. — The  three  billy  goats  gruff. — The  three  princesses  in  the  blue  mountain. — 
The  cat  on  the  Dovrefell. — One's  own  children  are  always  prettiest. 

Twenty-five  full-page  colored  plates  and  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

Asbjornsen,  Peter  Christen.  j  398  A7gf 

Fairy  tales  from  the  far  North;  tr.  from  the  Norwegian  by  H.  L. 
Braekstad.     1897.     Nutt. 

Fairy  tales  of  the  Norwegian  peasants  translated  for  English  children.  They  tell 
of  princesses,  trolls,  strange  beasts  and  other  wonders.  Among  the  stories  are,  The 
quern  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea. — The  squire's  bride. — Gudbrand  on  the  hill-side. — Nanny 
who  wouldn't  go  home  to  supper. — Little  Fred  and  his  fiddle. — The  princess  whom 
nobody  could  silence. — Farmer  Weatherbeard. 

Asbjornsen,  Peter  Christen.  j  398  A7gfa 

The  fairy  world;  folk  and  fairy  tales;  tr.  by  H.  L.  Brsekstad,  with 
an  introduction  by  E.  W.  Gosse.     De  Wolfe. 

Norwegian   fairy  stories. 

Asbjornsen,  Peter  Christen.  j  398  A7gt 

Tales  from  the  fjeld;  from  the  Norse  by  Sir  G.  W.  Dasent.     1896. 

Putnam. 

Many  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  25 

Ashmun,  Margaret  Eliza.  j  A827i 

Isabel   Carleton's  year.     Macmillan. 
Story  of  a  girl's  senior  year  in  high  school  in  a  middle  west  college  town. 

Aspinwall,  Mrs  Alicia. 

Echo-maid,  and  other  stories.     See  her  Listen  to  me  stories. 

Aspinwall,  Mrs  Alicia.  j  A84ie2 

Listen  to  me  stories.     Dutton. 

Contents:     The  echo-maid. — In  the  land  of  the  \Vee-uns. — The  big  light  on  Burning 
mountain. — A  leap-year  boy. — A  discontented  rooster. — -The  box-eating  antarilla. 
Later  edition  of  her  "Echo-maid,  and  other  stories." 

Aspinwall,  Mrs  Alicia.  j   A841S 

Short  stories  for  short  people.     Dutton. 

Humorous  stories  about  a  squash  vine  that  grew  miles  in  an  hour,  a  disobedient 
island  that  was  nearly  drowned,  and  other  wonders. 

Aston,  Florence.  j  943  A85 

Stories  from  German  history  from  ancient  times  to  the  year   1648. 

[1915.]     Crowell. 

Interestingly  told,  with  many  anecdotes  of   Charlemagne,   Frederick  the   Red-beard, 

Rudolph    of   Hapsburg   and   others.      Contains   chapters  on   the   life  and   customs   of  the 

people,  the  days  of  chivalry  and  the  crusades.     Illustrated. 

Atkinson,  Alice  Minerva.  j  940  A87 

European  beginnings  of  American  history;  an  introduction  to  the 
history  of  the  United  States,  designed  for  grammar  schools.  1912. 
Ginn. 

"List  of   reference  books,"   p.  16-17. 

English  history  is  the  basis  of  the  narrative,  but  there  are  chapters  on  the  Romans 
and  Greeks,  the  vikings,  the  crusades,  life  in  the  middle  ages,  the  discoveries  of  Colum- 
bus and  other  explorers.     Nine  maps  and  many  illustrations. 

Atkinson,  Mrs  Eleanor  (Stackhouse).  j  A875g 

Greyfriars  Bobby.     Harper. 

True  story  of  a  faithful  Skye  terrier  who  for  12  years  haunted  his  master's  grave 
in  Greyfriars  churchyard,  Edinburgh,  and  whose  life  of  devotion  the  Baroness  Bur- 
dett-Coutts  commemorated  by  the  erection  of  a  statue  and  drinking  fountain. 

Atkinson,  Mrs  Eleanor  (Stackhouse.)  j  A875J 

Johnny  Appleseed;  the  romance  of  the  sower,  with  illustrations  by 

F.  T.  Merrill.     Harper. 

Story  of  pioneer  life  in   the  middle  west  and  of  the  man,  "half  mystic,  half  poet," 

who  went  about  through  the  new  settlements   planting  apple  seeds  that  the  children   of 

the  settlers  might  know  the  joy  of  blossoming  orchards. 

Atkinson,  George  Francis.  j  581  A87 

First  studies  of  plant  life.     1902.     Ginn. 

Contents :  The  growth  and  parts  of  plants. — The  work  of  plants. — The  behavior  of 
plants. — Life  stories  of  plants. — Battles  of  plants  in  the  world. 

Simple,  practical  and  well  illustrated. 

Augsburg,  De  Resco  Leo.  j  741  A92 

Augsburg's   drawing.     3V.      1901.      Educational    Pub.   Co. 

v.i.  A  text  Ixmk  designed  to  teach  drawing  and  color  in  the  first,  second  and  third 
gradi  s. 

v.2.  A  text  book  of  drawing  designed  for  use  in  the  fourth,  fifth,  sixth,  seventh 
and   eighth  grades. 

v.3.  A  text  book  designed  to  teach  brush  drawing,  wash  drawing,  water  colors,  pen 
drawing,  tin-  human  head  and  Figure,  chalk  modeling,  designing  and  constructive  dial- 
ing   in    fourth,    fifth,    sixth,    seventh    and    eighth    grades,    also    the    high    BChools. 


26  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Aulnoy,  Marie  Catherine  Jumelle  de  Berneville,  comtesse  d'.  j  A9241 

Fairy  tales;  tr.  by  J.  R.  Planche.     McKay. 

Among  the  stories  are,  The  fair  with  golden  hair. — The  blue  bird. — Prince  Sprite. — 
Princess  Rosette. — Fortunee. — The  yellow  dwarf. — The  beneficent  frog. — The  hind  in 
the  wood. — The  white  cat. — Belle  Belle;  or,  The  chevalier  Fortune. — Princess  Belle- 
etoile  and  Prince  Cheri. 

Aunt  Judy,  pseud.    See  Gatty,  Mrs  Margaret  (Scott). 
Aunt  Louisa,  pseud.    See  Valentine,  Mrs  Laura  (Jewry). 
Aunt  Naomi,  pseud.    See  Naomi,  Aunt,  pseud. 

Austen,  Jane.  j  A933P 

Pride  and  prejudice.     Macmillan. 

Finds  its  motive  in  the  pride  of  birth  and  place  that  characterizes  the  really 
generous  and  high-minded  hero,  Darcy,  and  the  fierce  resentment  of  his  claims  to  love 
and  respect  on  the  part  of  the  clever,  high-tempered  heroine,  Elizabeth  Bennet.  Illustra- 
tions by  C.  E.  Brock. 

Austin,  Mrs  Mary  (Hunter).  j  398  A93 

The  basket  woman;  a  book  of  fanciful  tales  for  children.  1910. 
Houghton. 

Some  of  the  stories  are,  The  stream  that  ran  away. — The  coyote-spirit  and  the  weav- 
ing woman. — The  cheerful  glacier. — The  merry-go-round. — The  Christmas  tree. — The  fire 
bringer. — The  crooked  fir. — Mahala  Joe. 

Austin,  Oscar  Phelps.  j  353  A93 

Uncle  Sam's  secrets;  a  story  of  national  affairs.    Appleton. 

About  currency,  the  mint,  railway  postal  service,  foreign  mail,  banking,  revenue 
systems,  etc. 

Austin,  Oscar  Phelps.  j  355  A93 

Uncle  Sam's  soldiers;  a  story  of  the  war  with  Spain.     Appleton. 

For  boys  who  want  to  learn  about  West  Point,  army  organization,  coast  defenses, 
details  of  camp  and  hospital  life. 

Avebury,  John  Lubbock,  baron.    See  Lubbock,  Sir  John,  baron  Avebury. 

Ayrton,  Mrs  Matilda  (Chaplin).  j  915.2  Ag8c 

Child-life  in  Japan  and  Japanese  child-stories;  ed.  by  W.  E.  Griffis. 

1901.     Heath. 

About  the  festivals,  games  and  sports  of  Japanese  children;  also  contains  some  of 
the  stories  which  are  told  to  them.     Pictures  by  Japanese  artists. 

Aytoun,  William  Edmondstoune.  qj  821  A98 

Lays  of  the  Scottish  cavaliers,  and  other  poems.     1881.    Blackwood. 

Martial  poems  with  good  pictures. 

Partial  contents:  Edinburgh  after  Flodden. — The  execution  of  Montrose. — The 
heart  of  the  Bruce. — The  burial-march  of  Dundee. — The  widow  of  Glencoe. — The  island 
of  the  Scots. — Blind  old  Milton.— The  buried  flower. — The  refusal  of  Charon. 

j  Blig 
Baby  days,  with  an  introduction  by  the  editor  of  St.  Nicholas.  Cen- 
tury. 

Songs,  stories  and  pictures  for  very  little  folks. 

Bache,  Elizabeth  Du  Bois,  &  Bache,  L.  F.  j  642  B12 

When  mother  lets  us  make  candy.     1915.     Moffat. 
Simple  and  definite  receipts  for  fudge,  taffy,  caramels  and  other  candies. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  27 

Bacon,  Mrs  Dolores  Marbourg,   (pseud,  of  Mrs  Mary  j  784.8  B12 

Schell  (Hoke)  Bacon),  ed. 

Songs  that  every  child  should  know;  a  selection  of  the  best  songs 
of  all  nations  for  young  people  [with  music].  1906.  Grosset.  ("Every 
child  should  know"  books.) 

Collection  of  simple  melodies  arranged  for  the  voice  only,  such  as  All  thro'  the 
night. — Annie  of  Tharau. — Auld  lang  syne. — Auld  Robin  Gray. — Comin'  thro'  the  rye. — 
Drink  to  me  only  with  thine  eyes,  and  many  others.  Arranged  under  the  headings, 
Songs  of  sentiment. — Songs  of  war. — National  hymns. — Songs  of  patriotism. — Military 
nonsense  songs. — Miscellaneous  songs. — Shakespeare's  songs.  Contains  indexes  by 
titles,   composers  and  authors. 

Bacon,  Edwin  Munroe.  j  917.4  Bi2h 

Historic  pilgrimages  in  New  England  among  landmarks  of  Pilgrim 

and   Puritan   days  and  of  the  provincial   and   Revolutionary  periods. 

1898.     Silver. 

Describes  visits  to  Plymouth,  Salem,  Marblehead,  Boston,  Lexington,  Concord  and 
other  historic  places  in  Massachusetts.     Well  illustrated. 

Bacon,    Mrs    Josephine    Dodge    (Daskam).      Sec    Daskam,    Josephine 
Dodge. 

Baden-Powell,  Baden  Fletcher  Smyth.  j  533.6  B14 

Ballooning  as  a  sport.     1907.     Blackwood. 

Contents:  How  I  learnt  ballooning. — A  trip  heavenward. — In  an  Italian  war  bal- 
loon.— The  navigation  of  the  balloon. 

Baden-Powell,  Sir  Robert  Stephenson  Smyth.  j  369.2  Bi4b 

Boy  scouts  beyond  the  seas;  "my  world  tour."     1913.     Pearson. 

Account  of  the  author's  trip  around  the  world  and  his  experiences  with  boy  scouts 
of  other  nations. 

Bailey,  Carolyn  Sherwin,  &  Bailey,  M.  E.  j  790  B15 

Boys'  make-at-home  things.     1912.     Stokes. 

Directions  for  making  toys  and  useful  articles  out  of  simple  and  inexpensive  ma- 
terials.    Pictures  and  diagrams. 

Bailey,  Carolyn  Sherwin,  comp.  qj  784.8  B15 

Every  child's  folk  songs  and  games.     1914.     Bradley. 
Contents:      Songs   for   every   day. — Story   songs. — Motion   songs   and    games. 

Bailey,  Carolyn  Sherwin.  j  790  Bi5g 

Girls'  make-at-home  things.     1912.     Stokes. 

Tells  among  other  things  how  to  make  dolls,  dolls'  houses,  dolls'  furniture,  neck- 
laces, toys,  Christmas  and  Easter  gifts  and  valentines.     Illustrated  from  photographs. 

Bailey,  Carolyn   Sherwin.  j   172   B15 

What  to  do  for  Uncle  Sam;  a  first  book  of  citizenship.  1918.  Flana- 
gan. 

"Some  books  Uncle  Sam  has  prepared  for  boys  and  girls,"  p.206-214. 
Shows  children  how  to  become  good  citizens  and  suggests  ways  in  which  they  can 
serve  their  country. 

Bailey,  Edmund.    See  Alton,  Edmund,  pseud. 

Bailey,    Mrs    Florence    Augusta    (Merriam).      See    Merriam,    Florence 
Augusta. 


28  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Bailey,  Liberty  Hyde.  j  580.7  B16 

First  lessons  with  plants;  being  an  abridgement  of  "Lessons  with 

plants."     1908.     Macmillan. 

Contents:  Twigs  and  buds. — Leaves. — Flowers. — Propagation  and  habits. — Collect- 
ing. 

Well  illustrated. 

Bailey,  Marian  Elizabeth.  j  031  B16 

Boys'  and  girls'  ask-at-home  questions.  1915.  Stokes. 
Contents:  Introduction. — About  some  of  the  live  things  you  see  out-of-doors. — ■ 
About  the  sky  and  what  you  see  there. — About  the  earth  and  what  it  is  made  of. — About 
the  air  and  the  queer  things  that  are  in  it. — About  the  waters  of  the  earth  and  what 
they  do. — About  some  of  nature's  laws. — About  yourselves  and  your  bodies. — About 
some  of  the  peoples  of  the  earth  and  their  ways.- — -About  some  of  the  things  the  earth 
produces. — About  the  things  you  notice  around  the  house. — About  money  and  what  peo- 
ple do  with  it. — About  some  of  the  ways  of  business. — About  the  country  and  its  govern- 
ment.— About  war  and  soldiers. — -About  railroads. — About  newspapers  and  printing. — 
About  boats. — About  electricity  and  magnets. — About  manufactures. — Just  questions. 

Bain,  Robert  Nisbet,  ed.  j  398  B16 

Cossack  fairy  tales  and  folk-tales.     1894.     Burt. 

Folk-tales  told  to  the  Cossack  children.  Among  the  stories  are,  Oh. — The  vampire 
and  St.  Mjchael. — The  iron  wolf.- — The  tsar  and  the  angel. — The  origin  of  the  mole. — - 
The  ungrateful  children  and  the  old  father  who  went  to  school  again. — Ivan  the  Fool 
and  St.   Peter's  fife. — The  wondrous  story  of  Ivan  Golik  and  the  serpents. 

"A  selection  from  the  stories  of  the  Malo-Russians,  or  Ruthenians.  .  .The  tales,  like 
all  those  of  Slavonic  countries,  are  wonderfully  wild  and  fanciful.  .  .excellent  fairy- 
tales."    IV.  R.  Morfill. 

Bain,  Robert  Nisbet,  ed.  j  398  Bi6r 

Russian  fairy  tales.     1895.     Burt. 

Partial  contents:  The  golden  mountain. — The  Muzhichek-as-big-as-your-thumb-with- 
moustaches-seven-versts-long. — The  tsarevna  Loveliness-inexhaustible. — The  two  sons  of 
Ivan  the  soldier. — The  little  feather  of  Fenist  the  bright  falcon. — Two  out  of  the  knap- 
sack. 

From  the  Skazki  of  Polevoi. 

Baker,  G.  Cornelius.  j  793  B17 

Indoor  games  and  socials  for  boys.     1912.     Association  Press. 

"General  bibliography,"  p. 183-105. 

Collection  of  over  200  games,  besides  suggestions  for  charades,  refreshments,  and 
for  many  varieties  of  "socials,"  by  a  man  who  has  had  experience  in  entertaining 
Y.  M.  C.  A.  boys. 

Baker,  Ray  Stannard.  j  609  B17 

Boys'  book  of  inventions;  stories  of  the  wonders  of  modern  science. 
1899.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  A  voyage  on  the  bottom  of  the  sea. — Liquid  air. — Telegraphing  without 
wires. — The  modern  motor  vehicle. — X-ray  photography. — Tailless  kites. — The  story  of 
the  phonograph. — The  modern  skyscraper. — Through  the  air. 

Baker,  Ray  Stannard.  j  609  Bi7b 

Boys'  second  book  of  inventions.     1903.     Doubleday. 
Contents:     The  miracle  of  radium. — Flying  machines. — The  earthquake  measurer. — 
Electrical   furnaces. — Harnessing   the   sun. — The  inventor  and   the   food  problem. — Mar- 
coni and  his  great  achievements. — Sea-builders. — The  newest  electric  light. 

Baker,  Thomas  O.  j  372-4  Bl7 

Action  primer.     1906.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Easy  sentences,  nursery  rhymes  and  some  simple  poems.  Illustrations  are  pictures 
of  children  and  animals. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  29 

Baldwin,  James.  j  920  B19 

American  book  of  golden  deeds.  1907.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Eclectic 
readings.) 

True  stories  of  heroic  deeds.  Tells  among  others  of  Collins  Graves's  daring  race 
with  a  flood,  of  the  heroism  of  the  life  savers  of  Lone  Hill  station,  of  the  brave  act  of 
a  little  bootblack  and  of  how  a  quick-witted  mountain  girl  once  saved  the  Rio  Grande 
express.  Also  explains  about  the  Red  Cross  Society  and  the  Carnegie  Hero  Fund  Com- 
mission. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  977  Bigc 

Conquest  of  the  old  Northwest  and  its  settlement  by  Americans. 
1901.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

This  volume,  supplementing  Baldwin's  "Discovery  of  the  old  Northwest"  (j  977  B19), 
covers  a  period  of  100  years,  closing  with  Black  Hawk's  war  in  1832.  Celoron's  voyage 
down  the  Allegheny,  Washington's  hazardous  mission  to  the  French  forts,  Braddock's 
defeat,  the  expeditions  of  Bouquet,  St.  Clair  and  Wayne  are  of  interest  in  connection 
with  the  early  history  of  Pittsburgh. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  977  B19 

Discovery  of  the  old  Northwest,  and  its  settlement  by  the  French. 
1901.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Account  of  the  discovery  and  exploration  of  the  Great  lakes  and  of  the  Ohio,  Mis- 
sissippi and  other  rivers  of  the  Northwest.     Also  chapters  on  the  first  settlements. 

Baldwin,  James,  cd.  j  398  Bigfa 

Fairy  reader;  adapted  from  Grimm  and  Andersen.  1905.  Amer. 
Book  Co. 

Contents:  The  fox  and  the  horse. — The  cat  and  the  fox. — The  moon's  story. — The 
lost  spindle. — The  little  fir  tree. — The  wolf  and  the  man. — The  little  house  in  the  woods. 
— The   ugly   duckling. — The   story   of   Thumbling. — Briar    Rose. 

Baldwin,  James,  cd.  j  398  Bigf 

Fairy  stories  and  fables.     1895.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Includes  such  favorites  as  The  three  bears. — Little  Red  Riding  Hood. — The  story  of 
Tom  Thumb. — Jack  and  the  beanstalk. — Cinderella;  or,  The  little  glass  slipper. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  904  Bigf 

Fifty  famous  people;  a  book  of  short  stories.  1912.  Amer.  Book 
Co. 

Stories  of  Lincoln,  Edward  Everett,  Paul  Revere,  Benjamin  West,  King  Alfred, 
Cyrus  the  Great,  Coriolanus.  St.  Francis,  Robert  Bruce,  the  seven  wise  men  of  Greece, 
and  many  other  famous  people.     For  the  younger  children. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  g04  B19 

Fifty  famous  stories  retold.     1896.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

There  are  stories  of  King  Alfred  and  the  cakes,  Robin  Hood,  Bruce  and  the  spider, 
the  Black  Douglas,  William  Tell,  Cornelia's  jewels,  the  miller  of  Dee,  Diogenes  1  In- 
wise  man,  Socrates  and  his  house. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  923  B19 

Four  great  Americans:  Washington,  Franklin,  Webster,  Lincoln; 
a  book  for  young  Americans.  1897.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Four  great 
Americans  series.) 

Baldwin,  James.  j  292  B19 

Old  Greek  stories.     1895.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Stories  from  Greek  mythology.     Among  them,  Story  of  Prometheus.     The  w< 
ful  weaver.     The  lord  of  the  silver  bow.— Quesl  of   Medusa's  head.— Story  of  Atalanta. 
— The  adventures  of  Theseus. — The  cruel  tribute. 


30  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Baldwin,  James.  j  3g8.2  Big 

The  sarapo;  hero  adventures  from  the  Finnish  Kalevala.  1912. 
Scribner. 

Far  away  in  the  Frozen  Land  in  the  long  ago  time  a  master  wizard  forged  the 
wondrous  sampo  or  mill  of  fortune,  which  ground  out  all  sorts  of  treasures  and  gave 
wealth  and  power  to  its  owner.  This  story  tells  of  the  making  of  this  magic  mill  with  its 
pictured  lid  of  rainbow  colors  and  of  the  adventures  of  the  heroes  who  sought  to  gain 
possession  of  it. 

Four  full-page  illustrations  by  N.  C.  Wyeth. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  398.26  B19 

Story  of  Roland.     1895.     Scribner.     (Heroes  of  the  olden  time.) 
Here  are  related  the  daring  feats  and  great  exploits  of  Roland,   worthiest  of  the 

barons  of  France,  and  those  of  Oliver  and  Reinold  and  Ogier  the  Dane — heroes  who 

were  his  companions  in  arms. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  398.27  B19 

Story  of  Siegfried.     1896.    Scribner.     (Heroes  of  the  olden  time.) 

Legends  of  the  Nibelungen  hero,  Siegfried,  full  of  the  mystery,  awe  and  poetry  of 
the  northern  lands.  They  tell  of  how  Siegfried  forged  the  wondrous  sword,  Balmung,  of 
his  riding  through  flaming  fire  to  awaken  the  maiden,  Brunhild,  and  of  the  many  other 
strange  and  daring  deeds  which  he  wrought.     Cdntains  also  many  of  the  Norse  myths. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  292  Bigs 

Story  of  the  golden  age.  1896.  Scribner.  (Heroes  of  the  olden 
time.) 

The  various  legends  about  the  causes  of  the  Trojan  war  woven  into  a  continuous 
tale  ending  where  the  story  of  the  Iliad  begins.  Ulysses  is  the  hero,  and  in  connection 
with  the  story  of  his  boyhood  and  youth  the  author  retells  some  of  the  most  beautiful 
of  the  old  Greek  myths. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  904  Bigt 

Thirty  more  famous  stories  retold.     1905.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Includes  Columbus  and  the  egg. — The  fountain  of  youth. — Galileo  and  the  lamps. — 
The  first  printer. — James  Watt  and  the  teakettle. — Friar  Bacon  and  the  brazen  head. — 
The  Gordian  knot. — King  Richard  and  Blondel. — The  Man  in  the  iron  mask. 

Baldwin,  James.  j  398  Bigw 

Wonder-book  of  horses.     1905.     Century. 

Contents:  Helios's  four-in-hand. — The  horses  of  Sol  and  Maane. — The  black  steeds 
of  Aidoneus. — The  eight-footed  Slipper. — The  winged  horse  of  the  muses. — Griffen,  the 
high  flier. — The  ship  of  the  plains. — Al  Borak. — The  great  twin  brethren. — The  dancing 
horses  of  Sybaris. — Bucephalus. — Rakush  and  his  master. — Broiefort,  the  black  Arabian. 
— Rozinante. — Swift  and  Old-Gold. — The  great  wooden  horse. — The  horse  of  brass. — 
The  enchanted  horse  of  Firouz  Schah. 

Stories  of  winged  steeds  and  war-horses,  of  knights-errant  and  heroes. 

Ball,  Sir  Robert  Stawell.  j  523  B21S2 

Star-land.     Rev.  ed.     1899.     Ginn. 

Talks  about  the  sun,  moon,  "giant"  planets,  comets,  shooting-stars  and  other  wonders 
of  the  heavens. 

Ballantyne,  Robert  Michael.  j  B213C 

Coral  island.     Nelson. 

Tells  of  a  shipwreck  in  the  south  Pacific,  a  Robinson  Crusoe  existence  on  a  coral 
island  and  strange  adventures  with  sea  monsters,  pirates  and  cannibals. 

Ballantyne,  Robert  Michael.  j  B2i3g 

Gorilla  hunters.     Nelson. 

The  heroes  of  "The  coral  island"  undertake  a  hunting  expedition  in  the  wilds  of 
Africa  where  they  see  wonderful  sights  and  meet  with  more  strange  adventures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  31 

Ballard,  Mrs  Julia  P.  j  595-78  B21 

Among  the  moths  and  butterflies.     1897.     Putnam. 
Revised  and  enlarged  edition  of  her  "Insect  lives;  or,  Born  in  prison." 
Describes  the  appearance,  habits  and  life  histories  of  moths  and  butterflies,  giving 
practical  directions  for  study.     Scientifically  accurate,  yet  simple. 

Bamford,  Alary  E.  j  595-7  B219 

Up  and  down  the  brooks.     1896.     Houghton. 

Lives  of  the   small  animals  and   insects  that   are  born  and  live   in  the  brooks   and 

fresh-water  streams,  such  as  water-scorpions,  water-tigers,  skating  bugs,  frogs,  etc. 

Bankes,  George  Nugent.  j  B2272e 

An  Eton  boy's  letters.     Cassell. 
Banks,  Helen  Ward.  j  949-2  B22 

The  boys'  Motley;  or,  The  rise  of  the  Dutch  republic,  with  illustra- 
tions in  color  by  A.  D.  McCormick.    1914.    Stokes. 

The  period  is  that  of  the  struggle  of  Holland  to  throw  off  the  Spanish  yoke,  and 
the  principal  hero  is  William  of  Orange,  called  the  Silent.  Each  chapter  presents  an 
important  scene  or  dramatic  incident  in  this  16th  century  war  for  freedom.  For  younger 
boys  and  girls  than   Dawson's  "Stories  from   Dutch  history." 

Banks,  Martha  Burr.  j  266  B22 

Heroes  of  the  South  seas.     1896.    Amer.  Tract  Soc. 

Simple,  interesting  accounts  of  missionary  work  among  the  cannibals  and  savages 
of  the  South  sea  islands. 

Bannerman,  Mrs  Helen.  j  B228S 

Story  of  little  black  Sambo.     Stokes. 

A  tiger  story  with  colored  pictures. 

Bantock,  Granville,  ed.  qj  784.4  B22 

Sixty  patriotic  songs  of  all  nations,  for  medium  voice.    1913.    Dit- 

son.     (Musicians  library.) 

"Notes  on  the  songs,"  with  authorities,  p.  15-27. 

Barber,  Grace  Edson.  j  782.2  B23 

Wagner  opera  stories.     1901.     Public  School  Pub.  Co. 

Contents:  The  Rhine-gold. — Die  Walkure;  or,  The  story  of  Brunhilde. — Siegfried. 
— Die  Gotterdammerung. — Parsifal. 

Barbour,  Ralph  Henry.  j  6235b 

Behind  the  line.     Appleton. 

Story  of  college  life  and  foot-ball. 
Barbour,  Ralph  Henry.  j  B235C 

Captain  of  the  crew.     Appleton. 

Trials,  struggles  and  triumphs  which  fell  to  the  lot  of  the  captain  of  "Hillton's 
'varsity  crew." 

Barbour,  Ralph  Henry.  j  B235cr 

The  crimson  sweater.     Century. 

Various  adventures  and  misadventures  of  the  "Ferry  hill"  boys  and  especially  of 
the  boy  in  the  crimson  sweater  whose  "touchdown"  brought  victory  to  the  school. 

Barbour,  Ralph  Henry.  j  B235CO 

Crofton  chums.     Century. 

School  story. 
Barbour,  Ralph  Henry.  j  B235f 

For  the  honor  of  the  school;  a  story  of  school  life  and  interscholas- 
tic  sport.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Describes  the  long-drawn  struggle  of  a  cross-country  run,  exciting  competitions  in 
track  athletics  and  other  incidents  of  school  life.     A  sequel  to  "The  half-back." 


32  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Barbour,  Ralph  Henry.  j  B235I1 

The  half-back;  a  story  of  school,  football  and  golf.  Grosset. 
(Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Tale  of  a  preparatory  school  and  of  the  freshman  year  at  Harvard,  closing  with  an 
account  of  a  Yale-Harvard  football  game. 

Barbour,  Ralph  Henry.  j  B235W 

Weatherby's  inning;  a  story  of  college  life  and  baseball.   Appleton. 

The  vindication  of  Jack  Weatherby  and  how  he  saved  his  college  from  defeat. 

Baring-Gould,  Sabine.     See  Gould,  Sabine  Baring- 
Barnard,  Howard  Clive.  qj  914.2  B25 
The  British  Isles  in  pictures.     [1910.]     Macmillan. 

Contains  a  map  of  the  British  Isles  and  58  illustrations,  32  of  which  are  in  color. 
Brief  descriptions  of  the  islands  and  of  the  castles,  cathedrals  and  cities  represented. 

Barnard,  Howard  Clive.  qj  910  B25 

How  other  people  live.     1911.     Black. 

Contents:  Introduction. — "The  frosty  Eskimo." — The  Lapps  of  the  Tundra.— "The 
little  Indian." — Forest,  farm  and  fishery  (Scandinavia). — The  nomads  of  central  Asia. 
—The  Canadian  emigrant. — The  traders  of  the  Sahara. — The  savages  of  the  African 
jungle. — Life  in  China. — Gold-mining  and  sheep-farming  (Australia). — How  a  French 
boy  lives. 

Many   pictures,   some  of  them  colored. 

Barnes,  James.  j  B2561C 

Commodore  Bainbridge  from  the  gunroom  to  the  quarterdeck.  Ap- 
pleton.    (Young  heroes  of  our  navy.)   • 

Story-biography  of  a  hero  of  the  Algerine  war  and  the  War  of  1812. 

Barnes,  James.  j  B256if 

For  king  or  country;  a  story  of  the  American  revolution.     Harper. 

Story  of  twin  brothers  who  fought  on  opposite  sides  in  the  War  of  the  revolution. 

Barnes,  James.  j  B2561I1 

Hero  of  Erie;  Oliver  Hazard  Perry.  Appleton.  (Young  heroes  of 
our  navy.) 

Story  of  Commodore  Perry,  his  adventures  as  a  boy  on  the  frigate  General  Greene, 
as  the  hero  of  the  exciting  scenes  of  the  battle  of  Lake  Erie,  and  in  following  events. 

Barnes,  James.  j  B2561I 

A  loyal  traitor;  a  story  of  the  War  of  1812.     Harper. 

Barnes,  James.  j  62561m 

Midshipman  Farragut.    Appleton.     (Young  heroes  of  our  navy.) 

The  great  admiral's  boyhood  experiences  on  board  Commodore  Porter's  ship,  the 
Essex,  during  its  eventful  cruise  in  the  Pacific. 

Barnes,  James.  j  B256iy 

Yankee  ships  and  Yankee  sailors;  tales  of  1812.  Grosset.  (Every 
boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Contents:  Allen,  of  the  Chesapeake. — Reuben  James,  able  seaman. — Men  behind 
the  times. — The  coward. — The  scapegoat. — Loss  of  the  Vixen. — In  the  harbor  of  Fayal. 
— Escape  of  Symington. — The  Narragansett. — Fighting  Stewart. — Two  duels. — Dart- 
moor.— Rival  life-savers. — Random  adventures. 

Stirring  narratives  of  valiant  deeds.  The  incidents  are  drawn  from  history  and 
tradition  and  many  of  them  are  of  the  kind  which  the  new  navy  and  the  new  system  of 
warfare  have  made  now  impossible. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  33 

j  973  B25P3 
Barnes'  popular  history  of  the  United  States  of  America  [to  1914],  by 
J.  D.  Steele  and  Esther  Baker  Steele.     1914.     Burt. 

Full  of  anecdotes  and  interesting  incidents.     Many  pictures. 

Barnum,  Mrs  Frances  Courtenay  (Baylor).     See  Baylor,  Frances  Cour- 

tenay. 
Barr,  Mrs  Amelia  Edith.  j  B25gt 

Trinity  bells.     Dodd. 

Appeared  in   "St.   Nicholas,"  v. 26,   April-Oct.    1S99. 

Tale  of  life  in  old  New  York  with  a  little  Dutch  maiden  for  the  heroine.  The  story 
tells  how  she  and  her  brother  help  to  ransom  their  father  who  has  been  captured  by 
Algerian  pirates. 

Barrett,  Stephen  Melvil.  j  970.1  B26 

Hoistah,  an   Indian  girl.     1913.     Duffield. 

Her  girlhood  in  the  Cheyenne  camp  among  the  Black  hills  more  than  ioo  years 
ago,  her  captivity  among  the  Kiowas  and  her  later  life,  when,  distrusting  the  way  of  the 
pale-faced  people,  she  still  clung  to  Cheyenne  customs. 

Barrie,  Sir  James  Matthew.  j  B266I 

Little  minister.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Story  of  the  Auld  Licht  minister  of  Thrums  and  Babbie,  the  gypsy  maiden  of  Cad- 
dam  wood. 

"The  author's  best  novel;  very  romantic  in  plot  and  realistic  in  presentation  of  scene 
and  character."     For  the  older  girls. 

Barrie,  Sir  James  Matthew.  j  B266p 

Peter  Pan  in  Kensington  gardens,  with  drawings  by  Arthur  Rack- 
ham.     Scribner. 

Kensington  gardens  are  in  London  where  the  king  lives  and  here  after  Lock-out 
time  the  fairies  have  delightful  balls  within  a  fairy  ring.  Peter  Pan,  the  little  human 
baby  who  lives  on  the  Birds'  island  in  the  Serpentine  and  goes  to  and  fro  between  the 
island  and  the  gardens  in  the  Thrush's  Nest,  is  the  fairies'  orchestra.  There  are  other 
strange  tales,  too,  of  Peter  Pan,  who  never  grew  up,  and  of  the  famous  Maimie  Man- 
nering  for  whom  the  fairies  first  built  their  wonderful  little  house  for  lost  children. 

Barrili,  Anton  Giulio.  qj  853  B26 

11  merlo  bianco;  avventure  di  terra  e  di  mare  narrate  da  Capitan 
Dodero 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester,  ed.  j  973.7  B27 

The  Civil  war.     1912.    Century.     (Century  readings  in  United  States 

history.) 

Many  of  the  selections  were  written  by  those  who  took  part  in  the  events  described, 

Beauregard,  Grant,  Porter,  McClellan,  Sherman  and  others. 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester,  ed.  j  973.2  B27 

The  colonists  and  the  Revolution.  1912.  Century.  (Century  read- 
ings in  United  States  history.) 

Mainly  descriptive  of  life  in  colonial  times.     Contains  also  short  accounts  of   Frank- 
lin, Washington,  Nathan  Hale,  Lafayette,  Paul  Jones  and  the  signers  of  the   Deck 
of  independence. 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester,  ed.  j  973.1  B27 

Explorers    and    settlers.      1912.      Century.      (Century    readings    in 

United  States  history.) 

First  volume  of  a  series  of  readers  in  United  States  history  made  up  <>f  selections 

from   the   "Century"   and   "St.    Nicholas."      Other   volumes   are   "The   colonists   and    the 

Revolution,"    "A   new   nation,"    "The   Westward    movement, 11k-    Civil    war,"    "The 

progress  of  a  united  people." 


34  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester.  j  720.9  B27 

Famous  buildings;  a  primer  of  architecture.     1915.     Century. 

Describes  the  pyramids,  the  Parthenon,  the  Colosseum,  St.  Mark's,  the  Alhambra, 
Windsor  castle,  Westminster  abbey  and  other  famous  buildings,  showing  how  in  differ- 
ent countries  and  through  the  different  ages  distinct  styles  of  architecture  have  de- 
veloped and  pointing  out  the  special  characteristics  of  each.  Includes  a  table  of  build- 
ings in  the  United  States,  arranged  by  cities.     Illustrated. 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester.  j  759  B27 

Famous  pictures;  famous  pictures  described,  with  anecdotes  of  the 
painters.     1912.     Century. 

"Chronological  table  of  painters,"  p. 234-235. 

Pictures  are  grouped  under  the  headings:  Portraits. — Pictures  of  child  life. — Ani- 
mal pictures. — Landscape  painting. — Legendary  and  historical  subjects. — Sacred  and  re- 
ligious subjects. — Decoration. — Genre  and  still-life  painting. 

In  each  group  the  pictures  are  given  in  the  order  in  which  they  were  produced, 
showing  something  of  the  way  in  which  painting  has  grown  and  developed. 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester,  ed.  j  973  B27 

A  new  nation.  1912.  Century.  (Century  readings  in  United  States 
history.) 

From  the  inauguration  of  Washington  to  the  beginning  of  the  Civil  war.  Includes 
Laurels  of  the  American  tar  in  1812,  by  E.  S.  Maclay. — The  battle  of  New  Orleans,  by 
Theodore  Roosevelt. — Robert  Fulton  and  the  Clermont,  by  A.  C.  Sutcliffe. — Early  life 
of  Lincoln,  by  Helen  Nicolay. — My  escape  from  slavery,  by  Frederick  Douglass. — The 
Lincoln- Douglas  debates,  by  F.  T.  Hill. 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester,  ed.  j  973  B27P 

The  progress  of  a  united  people.  1912.  Century.  (Century  read- 
ings in  United  States  history.) 

Covers  the  period  since  the  Civil  war.  Includes  selections  of  a  civic  nature,  such  as 
Civil  service  reform,  by  G.  W.  Curtis. — The  bosses  and  the  people,  by  J.  B.  Bishop. — 
On  conservation,  by  Theodore  Roosevelt. — Civic  improvement,  by  Sylvester  Baxter. — 
Peace  versus  war,  by  Andrew  Carnegie. — New  Americans,  by  W.  A.  Curtis. 

Barstow,  Charles  Lester,  ed.  j  978  B27 

The  Westward  movement.     1912.     Century.     (Century  readings  in 

United  States  history.) 

From  1636  to  1900.     Some  of  the  subjects  are,  The  pony  express. — Early  Western 

steamboating. — Boone's    wilderness    road. — Pioneer     farming. — "The     plains    across." — 

Resume  of  Fremont's  expeditions. — Discovery  of  gold  in  California. 

Barton,  Frank  Townend.  j  636  B28 

The  boy  fancier;  a  complete  manual  of  all  matters  appertaining  to 
domestic  pets  suitable  for  the  youthful  fancier.     [1912.]     Routledge. 

Contents:  Dogs. — Ponies. — Goats.— Cats. — Rabbits. — Guinea-pigs  or  cavies. — Fer- 
rets.— Pet  monkeys. — Fancy  mice. — Squirrels. — Hedgehogs. — Poultry. — Pigeons. — Fancy 
pheasants. — British  cage  birds. — Foreign  birds. 

Barton,  William  Eleazar.  j  B283W 

When  Boston  braved  the  king;  a  story  of  tea-party  times.     Wilde. 

Barucchi,  Luigi.    See  Guerra,  Alvise. 

Barzini,  Luigi.  j  B286I 

The  little  match  man;  illustrations  by  Hattie  Longstreet.  Penn 
Pub.  Co. 

"Story  of  a  little  man  made  of  matches  who  came  to  life  and  had  many  wonderful 
adventures.     Translated   from  the   Italian."     Booklist,   1918. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  35 

Baskett,  James  Newton.  j  598.2  B29 

Story  of  the   birds.      1897.      Appleton.      (Appletons'   home    reading 

books.) 

Such  chapter  headings  as  How  did  the  birds  first  fly,  perhaps? — War  and  weapons 

among  the  birds. — The  meaning  of  music  among  birds. — How  a  bird  goes  to  bed. — What 

a  bird  knows  about  geography  and  arithmetic. 

Baskett,  James  Newton.  j  597  B29 

Story  of  the  fishes.  1899.  Appleton.  (Appletons'  home  reading 
books.) 

Partial  contents:  Interesting  things  inside  the  fish. — How  a  fish  poses  and  keeps 
its  head  and  back  up. — How  a  fish  knows  the  world. — How  a  fish  escapes  from  its  foes. 
— How  a  fish  gets  its  breath. — Some  finny   friends  worth  knowing. 

Bass,  M.  Florence.  j  372.4  B29 

Lessons  for  beginners  in  reading.     1900.     Heath. 
Short  sentences,  in  large  print,  about  flowers,  nuts,  seeds,  etc.     Colored  pictures. 

Bass,  M.  Florence.  j  590.4  B2ga 

Stories  of  animal  life.     Rev.  ed.     1912.     Heath. 

New  edition  of  her  "Nature  stories  for  young  readers;  animal  life." 
About   wasps,   spiders,   mosquitoes,    flies,   bees,    snails,    squirrels  and   other  common 
insects  and  animals. 

Told  for  little  children. 

Bass,  M.  Florence.  j  973  B29 

Stories  of  pioneer  life  for  young  readers.     1900.     Heath. 

Tells  how  the  early  settlers  journeyed  down  the  Ohio  in  flat-boats,  of   their  block- 
houses and  forts,  their  encounters  with  Indians  and  their  perilous  life  in  the  wilderness. 
Contains  short  lives  of   Daniel  Boone  and  Abraham   Lincoln. 
For  the  younger  children. 

Bass,  M.  Florence.  j  580.4  B2ga 

Stories  of  plant  life.     Rev.  ed.     1912.     Heath. 

New  edition  of  her  "Nature  stories  for  young  readers;  plant  life." 

Easy  reading  about  trees,  plants  and  flowers  and  how  they  grow.     With  pictures. 

Bassett,  Sara  Ware.  j  B296S 

Story  of  wool.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

An  Eastern  boy  spends  some  time  on  his  father's  Idaho  sheep  ranch,  makes  a  trip 
to  the  range  with  the  herders,  sees  the  "dipping"  and  "shearing"  and  learns  many 
things  about  the  wool  industry. 

Bates,  Katharine  Lee,  ed.  j  821.08  B31 

Ballad  book.     1890.    Sibley. 

Contents:  Ballads  of  superstition. — Ballads  of  tradition. — Romantic  and  domestic 
ballads. 

"List  of  principal  ballad  collections,"  p.21-22. 

Bates,  Katharine  Lee.  j  914.6  B31 

In  sunny  Spain,  with  Pilarica  and  Rafael.  1913.  Dutton.  (Little 
schoolmate  series.) 

Account  of  the  games  and  plays  and  daily  life  of  a  small  Spanish  girl  and  her 
brother  in  Granada  and  later  in  the  old  Galician  city  of  Santiago,  to  which  they  jour- 
ney by  mule  train.  The  legends,  riddles  and  folk-songs  woven  into  the  story  illustrate 
the  manners  and  customs  of  the  people. 

Baumbach,  Rudolf.  j  833  B32 

Sommermarchen. 

Contents:  Ranunkulus. — Die  teufel  auf  der  himmclswiesc. — Schleierweiss. — Die 
otterkonigin. —  Das  stahlerne  schloss. — Trudclu-n   ini   wald.  —  Der  goldbaum. — Der   fiedel- 


36  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Baumbach,  Rudolf — continued.  j  833  B32 

bogen  des  Neck. — Die  buche. — Die  verwunschene  wascherin. — Das  wasser  des  vergessens. 
— -Warum  die  grossmutter  nicht  schreiben  kann. — Der  kobold  im  keller. — Sankt  Huberti 
wunder. — Theodelinde  und  der  wassermann. — Der  eselsbrunnen. — Das  stille  dorf. — Was 
der  hausschliissel  erzahlte. 

Bay,  Jens  Christian,  camp.  j  398  B33 

Danish  fairy  &  folk  tales;  a'  collection  of  popular  stories  and  fairy 
tales,  from  the  Danish  of  Svend  Grundtvig  [and  others].  1899.  Har- 
per. 

How  a  "haughty  princess  of  England"  became  queen  of  Denmark;  the  story  of 
Hans  Humdrum  who  served  a  troll,  of  Peter  Humbug  and  the  white  cat,  of  the  little 
tailor  who  was  brave  against  his  will,  and  many  other  curious  tales  of  Danish  kings 
and  queens,  princes  and  beggars,  soldiers,  fairies  and  trolls. 

Baylor,  Frances  Courtenay,  aftenvard  Mrs  Barnum.  j  B336g 

Georgian  bungalow.     Houghton. 

Tells  of  picnics,  a  real  down-south  barbecue  and  other  good  times  in  Georgia. 

Baylor,  Frances  Courtenay,  afterward  Mrs  Barnum.  j  B336J 

Juan  and  Juanita.     Houghton. 

How  a  Mexican  boy  and  girl,  captured  by  the  Comanches  during  an  Indian  raid, 
escaped  and  made  their  way  400  miles  through  the  wilderness  to  the  Texas  settlements. 

Beach,  Edward  Latimer.  j  6342a 

Annapolis  youngster.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Describes  the  life  of  a  midshipman  at  Annapolis  and  on  shipboard. 

Beal,  William  James.  j  581.54  B34 

Seed  dispersal.     1900.     Ginn. 

Bibliography,  p.89-90. 

Simple  and  elementary  description  of  the  various  methods  of  plant  dispersion. 

Beale,  Mrs  Harriet  Stanwood  (Blaine).  j  221  B34 

Stories  from  the  Old  testament  for  children.     1899.     Duffield. 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter.  j  654.9  B34 

American  boys'  book  of  signs,  signals  and  symbols.  1918.  Lippin- 
cott.     (Woodcraft  series.) 

An  extensive  collection  of  codes  and  signals  drawn  from  many  sources.  Includes 
trail  signals,  gesture  signs,  color  symbols,  weather  signs  and  predictions,  and  numer- 
ous visible  and  audible  methods  of  conveying  information. 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter.  j  790  B34W 

American  boys'  handy  book.     1905.    Scribner. 

Title  reads  "What  to  do  and  how  to  do  it;  the  American  boys'   handy  book." 
Directions  for  making  kites,  boats,  aquariums,  puppet-shows  and  all  sorts  of  games 
and  toys.     Classed  under  the  four  seasons. 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter.  j  796  634b 

The  boy  pioneers;  Sons  of  Daniel  Boone.     1909.     Scribner. 

Directions  for  organizing  and  carrying  on  a  Boy  Pioneers  or  a  Daniel  Boone  club. 
Tells  how  to  initiate  new  members,  how  to  make  the  costumes,  a  fort,  a  Mandan  council- 
house,  etc.,  and  how  to  celebrate  pioneer  days,  Crockett's,  Kit  Carson's,  Audubon's  and 
others.     There  are  additional  chapters  on  camping,  games  and  sports. 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter.  j  790  B34 

Field  and  forest  handy  book;  new  ideas  for  out  of  doors.  1906. 
Scribner. 

Describes  a  large  variety  of  outdoor  recreations — camping  and  the  sports  connected 
with  it,  the  making  of  log-houses,  boats,  kites,  toboggans,  bob-sleds,  hunters'  clothes, 
moccasins,  etc. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  37 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter.  j  790  B34J 

Jack  of  all  trades;  new  ideas  for  American  boys.     1900.     Scribner. 

Directions  for  tree-top  and  underground  club-houses,  workshops,  toboggan-slides, 
indoor  entertainments  with  chalk  and  scissors,  circuses  and  Christmas  play.  Contains 
also  practical  suggestions  for  keeping  small  wild  animals,  pigeons  and  hens,  building 
coops  and  cabins,  and  working  with  tools. 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter.  j  796  B340 

Outdoor  handy  book.     1900.    Scribner. 

Formerly  published  with  the  title  "Outdoor  games  for  all  seasons." 
Tells   about    marbles,   kites,   tops,   stilts,    fishing-tackle,    rowing,   boating,    swimming, 
tag,  I  spy,  leap-frog,  tip-cat  and  other  games  for  boys. 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter.  j  796.5  B34 

Shelters,  shacks  and  shanties.     1914.     Scribner. 

Directions  for  making  more  than  50  shelters,  temporary  and  permanent,  from  the 
most  simple  and  primitive  to  the  fully  equipped  log  cabin.  The  designs  are  typically 
American  and  are  adapted  for  different  localities  and  climates.     Illustrative  diagrams. 

Beard,  Daniel  Carter. 

What  to  do  and  how  to  do  it;  the  American  boys'  handy  book.  See 
his  American  boys'  handy  book. 

Beard,  James  Carter.  j  591-52  B34 

Curious  homes  and  their  tenants.     1897.     Appleton. 

Mostly  descriptive  of  the  building  and  home-making  habits  of  insects  and  land  and 
water  animals. 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  B.  j  79°  B343 

American  girls'  handy-book.     1900.     Scribner. 

Gives  directions  for  the  observance  of  holidays,  the  giving  of  parties  and  picnics, 
for  games,  for  work  both  useful  and  ornamental. 

Same  as  their  "How  to  amuse  yourself  and  others." 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  B. 

How  to  amuse  yourself  and  others.  See  their  American  girls'  handy- 
book. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  B.  j  79°  6343! 

Indoor  and  outdoor  handicraft  and  recreation  for  girls.  1904. 
Scribner. 

Partial  contents:  Spinning. — Weaving  on  a  home-made  loom. — Things  to  make  of 
common  grasses. — Modelling  in  tissue-paper. — A  new  race  of  dolls. — A  toy  colonial  kitch- 
en.— Little  paper  houses  of  Japan. — May  day  amusements. — Hallowe'en  revels. — How 
to  arrange  fresh  flowers. — Keeping  store. — A  straw  ride  picnic. 

Also   published   under   the   title   "Recreations   for  girls." 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  B.  j  79°  B343I 

Little  folks'  handy  book.     1910.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Paper  building  cards. — Toys  made  of  comm.m  wooden  berry-baskets. — 
Straw  and  paper  furniture. — A  newspaper  boat  whicli  will  sail  mi  real  water. — Paper 
jewelry. — What  to  make  of  empty  spools. — Old  envelope  toys  and  how  to  make  them. — 
Toys  of  clothespins. — Scrap-books. — Toys  made  of  common  kindling  wood. — Little  twig 
people. — Visiting-card  houses. — Playing  Indians  witli  costumes  made  of  newspapers. — 
Christmas-tree  decorations. —  A  home  made  Santa  Claus. — Nature  study  with  tissue  paper. 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  P..  j  796.5  B343 

On  the  trail;  an  outdoor  book  for  girls.     1915.    Scribner. 
Among  the  topics  treated  are  wood'  raft,  camp  life,  outdooi   bandit  raft,  photography, 

boating,  swimming,   first   ail 


38  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  B. 

Recreations  for  girls.  See  their  Indoor  and  outdoor  handicraft  and 
recreation  for  girls. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  B.  j  790  B343t 

Things  worth  doing  and  how  to  do  them.     1906.    Scribner. 

Amusements  and  occupations  for  girls.  Describes  a  variety  of  parties,  shows  and 
entertainments,  as  well  as  things  to  make  for  home  and  fairs. 

Beard,  Lina,  &  Beard,  A.  B.  j  790  B343W 

What  a  girl  can  make  and  do;  new  ideas  for  work  and  play.  1902. 
Scribner. 

Work  with  hammer  and  saw,  Easter  and  Christmas  possibilities,  valentines,  picture 
collections,  basket  weaving,  rugs,  tableaux,  gardens,  outdoor  observation,  basket  ball, 
cheap  devices  for  entertainment,  etc.     Companion  to  "American  girls'  handy-book." 

Beard,  Patten.  j  790  B3432 

Jolly  book  of  boxcraft.     1914.     Stokes. 

Directions  for  making  houses,  bridges,  windmills,  circus  tents,  wigwams,  dolls'  fur- 
niture, and  other  toys  out  of  cardboard  boxes.     Pictures  and  diagrams. 

Bedford-Jones,  Henry.  j  B374f 

Flamehair  the  skald;  a  tale  of  the  days  of  Hardrede.     McClurg. 

A  Saxon  boy  captive  of  the  Vikings  saves  the  life  of  Harold  the  Stern,  commander 
of  the  imperial  guard  in  Constantinople,  shares  in  his  adventures  and  helps  him  to  win 
his  rightful  kingdom  of  Norway.     Ends  with  the  battle  of  Stamford  bridge. 

Beebe,  Katherine.  j  92  L828b 

Story  of  Longfellow.     1899.     Flanagan. 
Short  life  of  the  poet,  together  with  a  few  of  his  well-known  poems. 

Beebe,  Mabel  Borton.  j  923  B37 

Four  American  naval  heroes;  a  book  for  young  Americans.  1899. 
Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:     Paul  Jones. — Oliver  H.   Perry. — Admiral  Farragut. — Admiral   Dewey. 

Beeson,  Rebecca  Katharine,  comp.  j  808.8  B38 

Child's  calendar  beautiful.     1908.     Scribner. 

Poems  and  prose  selections  for  memorizing,  arranged  by  school  year  and  by  month. 

Bell,  Currer,  pseud.    See  Bronte,  Charlotte. 

Bell,  Mrs  Hugh.  j  793.1  B41 

Fairy  tale  plays  and  how  to  act  them.     1896.     Longmans. 

Fourteen  plays  intended  to  be  acted  by  boys  and  girls.  Dances  are  described  and 
many  practical  suggestions  given  as  to  scenery,  costuming  and  stage  management,  with 
illustrations  and  diagrams.  Folk-music  and  simple  accompaniments  have  been  added. 
Some  of  the  plays  are,  Red  Riding  Hood. — Beauty  and  the  beast. — Jack  and  the  bean- 
stalk.— Cinderella. — The  tinder-box. — The  three  wishes. — The  fisherman  and  his  wife. — 
The  sleeping  beauty. 

Bell,  Mrs  Hugh,  comp.  qj  784-8  B41 

The  singing  circle;  a  picture  book  of  action  songs,  other  songs  and 
dances;  illustrated  by  Hilda  Broughton.     1911.     Longmans. 

Includes   13  songs  from  Stevenson's  "Child's  garden  of  verses."     Colored  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  39 

Bellamy,  Mrs  Blanche  (Wilder),  &  Goodwin,  Mrs  j  808.8  B41 

Maud  (Wilder),  comp. 
Open  sesame;  poetry  and  prose  for  school-days.   3v.    1892-95.   Ginn. 

A  collection  of  English  poetry  and  short  prose  extracts.  The  poems  are  classed 
under  Sentiment  and  story. — Nature. — Playtime. — Loyalty  and  heroism. — Holidays  and 
holy  days. — Fairy  folk  and  fable. — Nursery  rhymes. — Cradle  songs. — Song  and  laughter. 
— Art  and  nature. 

v.i.     For  children  from  4  to  12  years  old. 

v.2.     For  boys  and  girls  from  10  to  14  years  old. 

v.3.      For  students  over  14  years  of  age. 

Benedict,  E.  L.  j  914  B43 

Stories  of  persons  and  places  in  Europe.     1887.    McKay. 

Chapters  for  each  country,  Russia,  Norway  and  Sweden,  Denmark,  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland,  France,  Germany,  Italy,  Holland  and  Belgium,  Greece,  the  Balkan  states 
and  Turkey,  Austria-Hungary,  Spain,  Portugal  and  Switzerland. 

Benezet,  Louis  Paul.  j  940.911  B43 

The  world  war  and  what  was  behind  it;  or,  The  story  of  the  map  of 

Europe.     1918.    Scott.     (Lake  history  stories.) 
Enlarged  edition  of  his  "Story  of  the  map  of  Europe." 
Traces  briefly   the  rise   of   modern   nations   in   Europe  and  the   sequence   of   events 

which  led  to  the  European  war.     Maps  and  other  illustrations. 

Bengtson,  Nels  August,  &  Griffith,  Donee.  j  633.11  B43 

The  wheat  industry,  for  use  in  schools.  1915.  Macmillan.  (Indus- 
trial series.) 

Begins  with  the  processes  in  wheat  raising  and  follows  the  grain  and  its  products 
through  the  mills  and  markets.  The  last  six  chapters  deal  with  the  chief  wheat  raising 
countries,  contrasting  the  methods  of  production  and  distribution.  At  the  end  of  each 
chapter  are  suggestive  questions  and  exercises.  Designed  for  the  upper  grades  of  ele- 
mentary schools. 

Bennett,  John.  j  B439D 

Barnaby  Lee.    Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"  v.28  and  29,  pt.i,  Nov.    1900-April   1902. 
Barnaby  Lee  escapes  from  pirates  and  the  story  tells  of  his  adventures  among  the 
Dutch  of  New  Amsterdam  in  the  days  of  the  sturdy  Peter  Stuyvesant. 

Bennett,  John.  j  6439m 

Master  Skylark;  a  story  of  Shakspere's  time.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"  v.24,  Nov.   1896-Oct.   1897. 

"Little  Nicholas  Attwood  joins  a  company  of  actors,  and  the  head  player,  dubbing 
him  Master  Skylark  because  of  his  wonderful  voice,  takes  him  with  them  to  London 
against  his  will.  Good  Master  Shaksperc,  however,  helps  him  in  time  of  need,  and 
little  Nick  gets  safely  home  again  to  his  mother  in  Stratford  town."  Arnold's  Mother's 
list  of  books  for  children. 

Bentley,  Alys  E.  qj  784.8  B44P 

Play  songs,  with  piano  accompaniments  by  H.  W.  Loomis.  1912. 
Barnes. 

Bentley,  Alys  E.  j  784.8  B44S0 

Song  primer,  made  for  the  children.     1907.     Barnes. 

Bentley,  Alys  E.  j  784.8  B44 

Song  primer;  teacher's  book.     1907.     Barnes. 

Simple  songs  for  little  children. 

Bentley,  Alys  E.  j  784.8  B44S 

The  song  series.    2v.     1910-11.     Barnes. 

Simple  songs  for  children,  with  music,  v.  1  is  intended  for  use  with  second  grade 
pupils  and  v.2   for  third  grade  pupils. 


4o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Benton,  Caroline  French,  pseud.    See  Burrell,  Caroline  Benedict. 

Beowulf.  j  829  B44C 

Beowulf,  the  Anglo-Saxon  epic;  tr.  and  adapted  for  school  use  by 
J.  H.  Cox.     1910.    Little. 

Contents:  Beowulf  fights  Grendel. — -The  fight  with  Grendel's  mother. — Beowulf 
and  his  company  seek  Higelac. — Beowulf  fights  the  dragon. 

Beowulf.  j  829  B44ca 

Brave  Beowulf;  ed.  by  Thos.  Cartwright.  1908.  Dutton.  (Every 
child's  library.) 

Pictures  showing  interior  of  an  old  Scandinavian  hall,  the  "foam-necked"  ship, 
armor,  shields  and  weapons,  such  as  were  used  by  Beowulf. 

Bergengren,  Ralph  Wilhelm.  qj  811  B45 

Jane,  Joseph   &  John;  their  book  of  verses;  illustrations  by   M.  E. 
Day.    1918.    Atlantic  Monthly  Press. 

Original  verses,  ascribed  now  to  one,  now  to  another  of  the  three  children,  and 
telling  of  the  flag,  the  policeman,  the  gardener,  the  Red  Cross  nurse,  the  home  guard, 
kite  weather,  the  wind,  etc.     Full-page  pictures  in  color  and  other  decorations. 

Bernardin  de  Saint  Pierre,  Jacques  Henri.     See  Saint  Pierre,  Jacques 
Henri  Bernardin  de. 

Bertelli,  Luigi.  j  B462P 

The  prince  and  his  ants  (Ciondolino),  by  Vamba;  tr.  from  the  4th 
Italian  edition  by  S.  F.  Woodruff  and  ed.  by  V.  L.  Kellogg.     Holt. 

Story  of  a  little  Italian  boy  who  became  an  ant  and  had  many  thrilling  adventures 
with  other  ants  and  with  wasps  and  bees. 

Beskow,  Elsa.  qj  833  B46 

Hanschens  skifahrt;  bilderbuch. 

Little  Hans  has  a  wonderful  journey  on  his  new  skees  and  visits  King  Winter  in  his 
forest  castle.     German  text.     Full-page  colored  pictures. 

Bevan,  Tom.  j  942  B46 

Stories  from  British  history,  B.  C.  54— A.  D.  1485.     Little. 

From  the  first  invasion  of  Britain  by  the  Romans  to  the  close  of  the  Wars  of  the 
roses.  Gives  an  unusually  good  idea  of  the  life  and  customs  of  the  people  at  different 
periods.     Illustrated. 

Biart,  Lucien.  j  843  B47 

Quand  j'etais  petit;  histoire  d'un  enfant  racontee  par  un  homme;  il- 
lustrations de  Maurice  Boutet  de  Monvel. 

Bible. 

Bible  for  children,  arranged  from  the  King  James  version.  See  Bible 
for  young  people,  arranged  from  the  King  James  version. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Bible.  j  22°  B4732 

Bible  for  young  people;  arranged  from  the  King  James  version, 
with  full  page  illustrations  from  old  masters.     [1902.]     Century. 

The  Bible  for  young  people  is  divided  into  subjects  forming  complete  stories  and 
the  life  of  Jesus  is  put  together  in  a  continuous  account  taken  from  the_  four  Evangel- 
ists. Verse  divisions  have  been  omitted  and  new  chapter  headings  used  in  place  of  the 
familiar  ones,  but  the  stories  are  told  in  the  Bible  language.  There  is  a  table  of  con- 
tents, giving  the  subject  of  each  book  and  its  subdivisions,  so  that  one  can  easily  find 
any  Bible  story  of  which  he  is  in  search. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  41 

Bible.  j  220  B4733 

Bible  readings  for  schools;  cd.  by  N.  C.  Schaeffcr.  1897.  Amer. 
Book  Co. 

Selections  from  the  Bible  edited  by  the  superintendent  of  public  instruction  of 
Pennsylvania  (1908)  and  arranged  under  the  headings,  Narratives.— Parables. — Sayings 
and  discourses. — The  law. — Selected  psalms. — From  Proverbs. — From  the  Prophets. 

Bible.  j  220.5  B47ho 

Holy  Bible,  containing  the  Old  and  New  testaments;  tr.  out  of  the 
original  tongues,  and  with  the  former  translations  diligently  compared 
and  revised,  by  His  Majesty's  special  command;  appointed  to  be  read 
in  churches.    Oxford  University  Press. 

Bible.  j  220.4  B47 

Holy  Bible,  tr.  from  the  Latin  vulgate;  the  Old  testament  first  pub- 
lished by  the  English  college  at  Douay,  1609,  and  the  New  testament, 
by  the  English  college  at  Rheims,  1582.     [1899.]     Murphy. 
Bible — Old  testament.  j  221  647b 

Bible  stories;  ed.  by  R.  G.  Moulton.  1899.  Macmillan.  (Modern 
reader's  Bible.) 

Each  period  of  Bible  history  is  represented  by  its  most  important  stories,  told  in  the 
language  of  Scripture,  altered  only  by  omissions.  An  introduction  and  notes  to  each 
section  weave  all  together  by  indicating  briefly  the  bearing  of  each  story  on  the  general 
history. 

Bible — Old  testament.  j  221  B47bi 

Bible  stories  to  read  and  tell;  150  stories  from  the  Old  testament, 
with  references  to  the  Old  and  New  testaments;  selected  and  arranged 
by  F.J.  Olcott,  illustrations  by  Willy  Pogany.     1915.     Houghton. 

"Editions  of  the  Bible  recommended  for  children,"  p. 483-486. 

Bible — Old  testament.  j  221  B470 

An  old,  old  story-book;  comp.  from  the  Old  testament  by  E.  M. 
Tappan.     1910.     Houghton. 

Contents:  In  earliest  times. — The  children  of  Israel  in  the  promised  land. — The 
children   of  Israel  under  the  kings. — The  Israelites  in  exile. 

Bible — Old  testament.  j  221  B47 

Old  testament  stories;  selected  for  the  children  by  Edwin  Chis- 
holm.     [1905.]     Dutton.     (Told  to  the  children  series.) 

Simple  extracts  from  the  Old  testament  under  such  titles  as  Abraham;  Isaac;  Moses, 
etc.     Colored  pictures. 

Bible — Old  testament.     Psalms.  j  223.2  B47 

The  Psalms  and  Lamentations;  ed.  by   R.  G.   Moulton.     2v.     1904. 

Macmillan.     (Modern  reader's  Bible.) 

Bible — Old  testament.     Proverbs.  j  223.7  ?97 

Proverbs;  ed.  by  R.  G.  Moulton.    1904.    Macmillan.    (Modern  reader's 

Bible.) 

Bible — New  testament.  j  225  647b 

Bible  stories;  ed.  by  R.  G.   Moulton.     1899.     Macmillan.     (Modern 

reader's  Bible.) 

Bible — New  testament.  j  226.5  B47 

Gospel,  epistles  and  revelation  of  St.  John;  ed.  by  R.  G.  Moulton. 

1905.     Macmillan.     (Modern  reader's  Bible.) 


42  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Bible — New  testament.  j  225  B47 

Stories  from  the  life  of  Christ;  selected  for  the  children  by  J.  H. 
Kelman.     [1905.]     Dutton.     (Told  to  the  children  series.) 

Colored  pictures. 
BIdpai.  j  398.91  B47 

The  tortoise  and  the  geese,  and  other  fables;  retold  by  M.  B.  Dut- 
ton and  illustrated  by  E.  B.  Smith.     1908.     Houghton. 

According  to  tradition  BIdpai  was  a  sage  of  India,  who  lived  about  300  B.  C.  All 
his  wisdom  he  ingeniously  inculcated  in  his  fables,  34  of  which  are  here  retold.  Twelve 
attractive  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Bigham,  Madge  A.  j  B478S 

Stories  of  Mother  Goose  village.    Rand. 

New  stories  of  Jack-be-nimble,  Simple  Simon,  little  Miss  Muffet  and  other  Mother 
Goose  boys  and  girls.     Colored  pictures. 

Billinghurst,  Percy  J.  j  B483I1 

Hundred  anecdotes  of  animals,  with  pictures  by  P.  J.  Billinghurst. 

Lane. 

A  full-page  picture  for  each  anecdote. 

Birkhead,  Alice.  j  92°  B48 

Heroes  of  modern  Europe.     [1913.]     Crowell. 

Contents:  The  two  swords. — Dante,  the  divine  poet. — Lorenzo  the  Magnificent. — 
The  prior  of  San  Marco. — Martin  Luther,  reformer  of  the  church. — Charles  V,  Holy 
Roman  emperor. — The  beggars  of  the  sea. — William  the  Silent,  father  of  his  country. — 
Henry  of  Navarre. — Under  the  red  robe. — The  grand  monarch  [Louis  XIV]. — Peter  the 
Great. — The  royal  robber. — Spirits  of  the  age. — The  man  from  Corsica. — "God  and  the 
people." — "For  Italy  and  Victor  Emmanuel!" — The  third  Napoleon. — The  reformer  of 
the  East. — The  hero  in  history. 

Birkhead,  Alice.  j  944-04  B48 

Story  of  the  French  revolution.     [1913-]     Crowell. 

"Extends  from  a  few  years  before  the  death  of  Louis  XIV  to  the  choice  of 
Napoleon  as  first  consul  and  confines  the  story  mainly  to  Paris."     Booklist,  1914. 

Bishop,  Farnham.  j  986  B49 

Panama,  past  and  present.    1914-    Century. 

Interesting  account  of  the  adventurers  and  bucaneers  of  old  Panama,  the  uprising 
against  Colombia,  the  coming  of  the  Americans  and  the  building  of  the  canal.  Many 
good  pictures. 

Bishop,  Farnham.  j  623.9  B49 

Story  of  the  submarine.     1918.     Century. 

First  100  pages  trace  the  development  of  the  submarine,  beginning  with  the  "eel- 
boats"  of  the  learned  doctor  Cornelius  Van  Dreble  and  including  accounts  of  David 
Bushnell's  "Turtle"  and  Robert  Fulton's  "Nautilus."  Other  chapters  deal  with  the 
modern  submarine  in  action;  with  mines,  accidents  and  safety  devices. 

Black,  Alexander.  j  B513C 

Captain  Kodak.     Lothrop. 

A  camera  story,  full  of  the  problems,  struggles  and  surprises  that  beset  the  amateur 
photographer.     Photographic  illustrations  by  the  author. 

Black,  Alexander.  j  977-1  B51 

Story  of  Ohio  [to  1888].    Lothrop.    (Story  of  the  states.) 

"Books  relating  to  Ohio,"  p.317-318. 

Account  of  the  discovery  and  occupation  of  the  Ohio  valley,  Indian  warfare  and 
pioneer  life  and  the  later  development  of  the  state. 

Black,  William.  j  B5I4* 

Four  MacNicols,  and  An  adventure  in  Thule.    Harper. 

Two  stories,  one  of  four  orphan  boys  who  make  their  own  living  in  the  Hebrides, 
and  the  other  telling  of  an  adventure  with  French  coast  pirates. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  43 

Blackmore,  Richard  Doddridge.  j  B516I 

Lorna  Doone.  Luxembourg  ed.  Crowell;  Rittenhouse  classics. 
Jacobs. 

A  romance  of  Exmoor.  It  tells  of  "the  savage  deeds  of  the  outlaw  Doones  in  the 
depth  of  Bagworthy  Forest,  the  beauty  cri  the  hapless  maid  brought  up  in  the  midst  of 
them,  the  plain  John  Ridd's  Herculean  power,  and.  .  .the  exploits  of  Tom  Faggus." 
Preface. 

Blaikie,  William.  j  613.71  B52I1 

How  to  get  strong  and  how  to  stay  so.     1899.     Low. 

Simple  directions  for  every-day  practice  in  physical  culture.  Includes  sketches  of 
great  men  whose  physical  development  has  equaled  their  mental  strength. 

Blaikie,  William.  j  613.71  B52S 

Sound  bodies  for  our  boys  and  girls.     1898.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Gives  simple  exercises  for  developing  and  strengthening  the  different  parts  of  the 
body.     Appendix  contains  tables  showing  the  effect  of  daily  exercise. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin,  &  Ball,  F.  K.  j  973  B52am 

American  history  for  little  folks,  with  illustrations  by  F.  T.  Merrill. 

1917.     Little. 

Selected   incidents,   such   as  the   Boston   tea-party   and   the   defense   of  the   Alamo, 

presented  in  a  simple  and  easy  style.     Intended  for  supplementary  reading  in  the  third 

grade. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin.  j  613  B52a 

Child's  book  of  health,  in  easy  lessons  for  schools.     1905.     Ginn. 

About   the   different   parts   of  the   body,   with   some  simple   rules    for   keeping   well. 
For  the  younger  children. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin,  &  Ball,  F.  K.  j  973  B52I1 

Hero  stories  from  American  history,  for  elementary  schools.  1903. 
Ginn. 

Period  covered  is  from  1775  to  1825.  Includes  the  capture  of  Fort  Vincennes  by 
George  Rogers  Clark,  the  Canadian  campaign  of  Benedict  Arnold,  the  defense  of  Fort 
Sullivan  by  Col.  Moultrie,  the  death  of  Nathan  Hale,  Wayne's  capture  of  Stony  Point 
and  the  battle  of  New  Orleans. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin,  &  Ball,  F.  K.  j  973  B52he 

Heroic  deeds  of  American  sailors,  with  illustrations  by  F.  T.  Merrill. 
1915.     Little. 

Contents:  "Old  Ironsides." — The  destruction  of  the  Gaspee. — A  leap  for  life. — 
Decatur  burns  the  Philadelphia. — Somers,  the  schoolboy  captain. — Mysteries  of  the  sea. 
— A  duel  at  sea. — The  Enterprise  and  the  Boxer. — Thomas  MacDonough.— Cushing  saves 
the  fleet. — How  Cushing  escaped. — Running  the  blockade. — The  wreck  of  the  Saginaw. 
— A  fight  with  Filipinos. — Facing  death  under  the  sea. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin.  j  613  B5202 

Our  bodies  and  how  we  live;  an  elementary  text-book  of  physiology 
and  hygiene  for  use  in  schools.    Rev.  ed.     1910.    Ginn. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin,  &  Ball,  F.  K.  j  973  B52S 

Short  stories  from  American  history.  1905.  Ginn.  (Blaisdell's  his- 
torical readers.) 

Partial  contents:  The  first  Thanksgiving. — The  Boston  tea  party. — How  Lydia  Dar- 
rah  served  her  country. — The  bravery  of  Elizabeth  Zane. — Voyaging  in  the  wilderness. 
— Our  nation's  flag. 

Supplementary  historical  reader  for  4th  and   5th  grades. 


44  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin.  j  942  B52 

Stories  from  English  history,  from  the  earliest  times  to  the  present 
day.     1897.    Ginn. 

Author  has  selected  picturesque  incidents  and  dramatic  events — such  stories  as  those 
of  Boadicea  the  warrior  queen,  King  Canute,  *King  Alfred,  Richard  the  Lion-hearted, 
Queen  Margaret  and  the  robber,  the  princes  in  the  Tower,  the  great  fire  of  London. 
Good  for  supplementary  reading. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin,  ed.  j  973.7  B52 

Stories  of  the  Civil  war,  adapted  for  supplementary  reading.  1890. 
Lothrop. 

Bibliography,  p. 245. 

Stories  and  poems  about  the  brave  men  who  fought  in  the  Civil  war.  Among  them, 
Battle-hymn  of  the  Republic. — Under  fire  for  the  first  time. — Little  Eddie  the  drummer 
boy. — How  a  boy  helped  Gen.  McClellan  win  a  battle. — The  story  of  Sheridan's  famous 
ride. — The  black  regiment. — Two  scouts  who  had  nerves  of  steel. — The  blue  and  the  gray. 

Blaisdell,  Albert  Franklin.  j  973  B52 

Story  of  American  history,  for  elementary  schools.     1901.     Ginn. 

"Books  for  reference  and  collateral  reading  in  the  study  of  American  history," 
p.424-435. 

"Prominence  is  given  to  exceptional  deeds  of  valor,  details  of  everyday  living  in 
olden  times,  dramatic  episodes,  and  personal   incident."     Preface. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  917. 1  B52 

Betty  in  Canada.     1910.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

Betty,  whose  home  is  on  a  large  farm  in  Ontario,  and  her  two  boy  cousins  from 
British  Columbia  visit  Ottawa,  Montreal,  Quebec  and  Halifax. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  914.7  B52 

Boris  in  Russia.     1910.    Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

Story  of  a  young  Russian  peasant  boy  who  goes  to  the  great  fair  at  Nijni  Nov- 
gorod, which  has  been  held  annually  for  more  than  500  years,  to  Moscow  and  to  St. 
Petersburg,  where  he  sees  the  blessing  of  the  waters  of  the  Neva  and  the  joyous  celebra- 
tion of  Easter. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Blaisdell,  M.  F.  j  372.4  652b 

Boy  Blue  and  his  friends.     1906.     Little. 

A  book  for  the  youngest  readers.  Here  they  will  learn  why  Mary's  lamb  went  to 
school,  what  the  mouse  was  looking  for  when  he  ran  up  the  clock,  why  one  little  pig 
went  to  market  and  how  another  little  pig  got  lost. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Blaisdell,  M.  F.  j  372.4  B52 

Child  life  primer.     1905.     Macmillan. 

Colored  pictures. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Blaisdell,  M.  F.  comp.  j  808.8  B52 

Child  life;  a  first  reader.     1904.     Macmillan. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Blaisdell,  M.  F.  comp.  j  808.8  B52C 

Child  life  in  tale  and  fable;  a  second  reader.     1903.     Macmillan. 

Easy   reading   about    Silver    Locks. — The   boy   who    cried    "Wolf." — Tom    Thumb. — 
Little  Red  Riding  Hood.— The  little  red  hen.— The  lost  doll. 
With  many  pictures,  some  of  them  colored. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Blaisdell,  M.  F.  comp.  j  808.8  B52ch 

Child  life  in  many  lands;  a  third  reader.     1904.     Macmillan. 

Short  stories  and  poems  about  children,  such  as  An  old-fashioned  school. —The  Jack- 
o-lantern. — Boston  boys  of  1776.— Why  the  mole  is  blind. — I  remember,  I  remember. — 
The  leak  in  the  dike. — The  doll   festival.— A  Chinese  school. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  45 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Blaisdell,  M.  F.  comp.  j  808.8  B52chi 

Child  life  in  literature;  a  fourth  reader.     1903.     Macmillan. 
Extracts   from   such    stories   as   "Alice's   adventures    in    Wonderland,"    "The    snow- 
image,"    "At   the   back   of  the   north   wind,"    "The   little   lame   prince,"    "Jackanapes," 
"I.orna  Doone."     Also  contains  poems. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Blaisdell,  M.  F.  comp.  j  808.8  B52CI1I 

Child  life  fifth  reader.     1904.     Macmillan. 

Short  stories  and  poems  and  selections  from  such  books  as  "Swiss  family  Robin- 
son," "The  wonder-book,"  "Through  the  looking-glass,"  "Don  Quixote,"  "Tom  Brown's 
school   days,"  "The  Arabian  nights"  and   "Pickwick  papers." 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin.  j  914.4  B52 

Colette  in  France.     1913.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

"Colette  and  her  friends  wander  along  the  Seine,  learn  much  about  the  history  of 
Paris,  at  Rouen  hear  again  the  story  of  Jeanne  d'Arc,  and  through  a  little  peasant  girl 
of  Normandy  find  out  many  things  about  the  interesting  life  in  the  country."  Booklist, 
1914. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  914.1  B52 

Donald  in  Scotland.     1912.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

Donald  Fraser,  a  boy  of  14,  is  sent  to  spend  a  few  weeks  on  a  lonely  Highland  croft. 
When  he  returns  to  his  home  in  the  city  the  Highland  lad  and  lassie  go  with  him  and 
the  children  visit  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow  and  have  a  motor  trip  to  the  Trossachs  and 
Loch  Katrine. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  914.3  B52 

Fritz  in  Germany.     1910.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

"Fritz  leaves  the  old  castle  in  Bavaria  which  has  been  the  home  of  his  family  for 
generations  and  goes  to  Berlin  to  study  music  and  live  with  his  aunt,  who  takes  him 
to  many  parts  of  Germany,  including  Potsdam,  where  he  sees  the  crown  prince  make  a 
flight  in  an  airship."     Booklist,  igw. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  914.85  B52 

Gerda  in  Sweden.     1910.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

Gerda  and  her  twin  brother  take  a  trip  northward  across  the  Baltic  sea  and  into 
Lapland,  where  they  see  the  sun  shining  at  midnight  and  spend  a  day  with  a  family  of 
Lapps  and  their  reindeer.  In  Stockholm  they  visit  the  deer  park  and  museum,  go  to  the 
winter  carnival  and  celebrate  Yule-tide  with  all  the  good  old   Swedish  customs. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  914.6  B52 

Josefa  in  Spain.     1912.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

Account  of  a  little  Spanish  girl  who  lives  with  the  gipsies  in  the  caves  of  Granada. 
She  rides  to  Seville  in  the  gipsy  caravan,  dances  at  the  great  fair  there  and  later  travels 
with  the  family  of  a  rich  Spanish  don  to  Cadiz,  Malaga  and  Madrid. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  914.15  B52 

Kathleen  in  Ireland.     1909.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 
Story  of  a  little  Irish   girl  and   her  blind  sister   who  live  among  the  mountains  of 

lonely  Donegal.     They  make  visits  in  different  parts  of  Ireland  and  hear  stories  of  the 

good  St.  Patrick,  Finn  MacCool,  the  wee  folk  and  the  giants. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  917.2  B52 

Manuel  in  Mexico.     1909.    Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

About  Manuel's  life  on  an  hacienda;  how  he  played  burro-corrido  and  other  games 
with  the  Indian  boys  and  how  he  and  his  friend  Benito  became  pages  to  a  great  lady  in 
Mexico  city  and  took  part  in  the  Christmas  festivities. 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  914.5  B52 

Rafael  in  Italy.     1910.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

Rafael  Valla  is  seen  first  in  Venice,  where  he  rows  his  boat  on  the  canals,  hears  the 
music  of  the  band  in  the  square  of  St.  Mark  and  goes  to  the  Rialto  bridge  for  a  serenade. 
With  an  American  girl  and  her  mother,  lie  afterward  travels  in  Italy,  seeing  Florence, 
the  vintage  with  its  merrymaking  in  Tuscany,  the  Roman  ruins,  the  picturesque  street 
life  in  Naples  with  its  noise  and  gayety,  and  t lie  silent  streets  of  Pompeii. 


46  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin,  &  Dalrymple,  Julia.  j  915.2  B52 

Ume  San  in  Japan.     1910.     Little.     (Little  people  everywhere.) 

Begins  by  telling  what  little  "Miss  Plum  Blossom"  did  on  her  nth  birthday  and 
also  describes  the  "tea-ceremony"  of  the  illustrious  dolls,  the  cherry  blossom  and  flag 
festivals,  the  New  Year's  merrymaking  and  other  happy  times,  including  a  trip  to 
Kamakura  and  the  island  of  shells. 

Blaisdell,  Mary  Frances.  j  B525P 

Polly  and  Dolly.     Little. 

Little  stories  for  little  children  about  Polly  and  Dolly,  Ned  and  Ted;  of  the  tent 
the  boys  make  in  the  pine  grove,  of  the  prize  melon  they  raise  in  their  garden,  of  the 
game  of  make-believe  bears  and  of  other  plays  and  games. 

Blake,  Katherine  Devereux,  &  Alexander,  Georgia,  comp.       j  821.08  B52 
Graded  poetry,  first  to  eighth  years.    8v.  in  7.     1906.     Maynard. 

v.1-2.     First  and  second  years. 

v.3.  Third  year. 

v.4.  Fourth  year. 

v.5.  Fifth   year. 

v.6.  Sixth   year. 

v.7.  Seventh  year. 

v.8.  Eighth  year. 

Blake,  William.  j  821  B52 

Songs  of  innocence.     1902.     Lane.     (Flowers  of  Parnassus.) 

Joyous  and  fanciful  poems,  such  as  The  shepherd. — The  echoing  green. — The  lamb. 
— The  little  black  boy. — The  little  boy  found. — Laughing  song. — Infant  joy. — A  dream. 
Daintily  illustrated  by  Geraldine  Morris. 

The  same;  decorated  by  Charles  Robinson  and  M.  H.  Robinson. 
Dent j  821   B52a 

Contains  u  additional  poems  including  "The  tiger."     Seven  color  plates. 

Blanchan,    Neltje,   pseud.     See   Doubleday,   Mrs   Nellie    Blanchan    (De 
Graff). 

Bland,  Mrs  Edith  (Nesbit).     See  Nesbit,  Edith. 

Blatchford,  Mary.  j  B5412S 

Story  of  little  Jane  and  me.     Houghton. 
About  two  little  girls  who  lived  in  New  York  city  50  years  ago. 

Blodgett,  Frances  E.  &  Blodgett,  A.  B.  j  372.4  B55 

Primer.     1904.     Ginn. 
Many  pictures,  some  of  them  colored. 

Blodgett,  Frances  E.  &  Blodgett,  A.  B.  j  372.4  Bssf 

First  reader.     1904.     Ginn. 

Little  stories  of  nature,  animal  life,  home  and  country  with   many  pictures. 

Blumenthal,  Verra  Xenophontovna  Kalamatiano  de,  ed.  j  398  B56 

Folk  tales  from  the  Russian.     1903.     Rand. 

Contents:  The  tsarevna  frog. —  Seven  Simeons. —  The  language  of  the  birds. — 
Ivanoushka  the  simpleton. — Woe  Bogotir. — Baba  Yaga.— Dimian  the  peasant. — The 
golden  mountain. — Father  Frost. 

Bliithgen,  Victor.  qj  831  B57 

Buben  und  madel's;  ein  ABC  fur's  haus;  fiinfundzwanzig  original- 
zeichnungen  von  Oscar  Pletsch,  in  holzschnitt  ausgefuhrt  von  K.  Oer- 
tel,  mit  reimen  von  Victor  Bliithgen. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  47 

Bliithgen,  Victor.  qj  831  Bs7g 

Guckaus;  sicbzehn  original-zeichnungen  von  Oscar  Pletsch,  in  holz- 
schnitt  ausgefiihrt  von  H.  Giinther  und  K.  Oertel,  mit  reimen  von 
Victor  Bliithgen. 

Bolton,  Mrs  Sarah  (Knowles).  j  923-2  B61 

Famous  American  statesmen.     1888.     Crowell. 

Contents:  Washington.— Franklin. — Jefferson. — Hamilton. — Jackson. — Webster. — 
Clay. — Sumner. — Grant. — Garfield. 

Bolton,  Mrs  Sarah  (Knowles).  j  920  B6if 

Famous  leaders  among  men.     1894.     Crowell. 

Contents:  Napoleon. —  Nelson. —  Bunyan. —  Thomas  Arnold. —  Wendell  Phillips. — 
Henry  Ward  Beecher. — Charles  Kingsley.— Gen.  Sherman. — Spurgeon. — Phillips  Brooks. 

Bolton,  Mrs  Sarah  (Knowles).  j  920.7  B6ifa 

Famous  leaders  among  women.     1895.     Crowell. 

Contents:  Mme  de  Maintenon. — Catharine  II  of  Russia. — Mme  Le  Brun. — Dolly 
Madison. — Catherine  Booth. — Lucy  Stone. — Lady  Henry  Somerset. — Julia  Ward  Howe. 
— Queen  Victoria. 

Bolton,  Mrs  Sarah  (Knowles).  j  920.7  B6if 

Famous  types  of  womanhood.     1892.     Crowell. 

Contents:  Queen  Louise  of  Prussia. — Madame  Recamier. — Susanna  Wesley. — Har- 
riet Martineau. —  Jenny  Lind. —  Dorothea  L.  Dix. —  Ann,  Sarah  and  Emily  Judson. — 
Amelia  B.  Edwards. 

Bolton,  Mrs  Sarah  (Knowles).  j  920.7  B61 

Lives  of  girls  who  became  famous.     1886.     Crowell. 

Contents:  Louisa  M.  Alcott. — Rosa  Bonheur. — E.  B.  Browning. — Elizabeth  T.  But- 
ler.— Baroness  Burdett-Coutts. — George  Eliot. — Elizabeth  Fry. — Harriet  G.  Hosmer. — 
Jean  Ingelow. — Helen  Hunt  Jackson. — Mary  A.  Livermore.— Mary  Lyon. — Maria  Mitch- 
ell.— Lucretia  Mott. — Florence  Nightingale. — Lady  Brassey. — Margaret  Fuller  Ossoli. 
— Madame  de  Stael. — Harriet  Beecher  Stowe. 

Bolton,  Mrs  Sarah  (Knowles).  j  920  B61 

Lives  of  poor  boys  who  became  famous.     1885.     Crowell. 

About  Sir  Henry  Bessemer,  Ezra  Cornell,  Sir  Titus  Salt,  Captain  Eads,  David  G. 
Farragut  and  other  poor  boys  who  made  the  most  of  their  chances  and  became  great  and 
successful  men. 

Bond,  Alexander  Russell.  j  620  B62am 

American  boys'  engineering  book.  1918.  Lippincott.  (Lippin- 
cott's  how-to-do-things  series.) 

Contents:  Fitting  up  the  workshop. — Machine  tools  for  the  workshop. — What  a 
boy  should  know  of  the  stars. — Surveying,  sounding  and  signaling. — Roads  and  rail- 
roads.— Navigation  improvements  on  Big  Bear  pond. — Wharves  and  bridges. — Water 
power. — Building  construction. — Electric   power. — Weather   bureau. 

Bond,  Alexander  Russell.  j  355  B62 

[nventions  of  the  great  war.     1919.     Century. 

Contents:     The  war  in  and  under  the  ground. — Hand-grenades  and  trench   mortars. 
■ — Guns    that    fire    themselves. — Guns    and    super-guns. — The    battle    of    the    chemists. 
Tanks. — The  war  in  the  air.- -Ships  that  sail  the  skies. — Getting  the  range.     -Talking   in 
the   sky. — Warriors   of    the    paint-brush.  —  Submarines. — Getting   the   best    of   the    1 
— "Devil's  eggs." — Surface   boats. — Reclaiming  the  victims   of   the   submarines. 

Interestingly  written   and  well   illustrated. 

Bond,  Alexander  Russell.  j  620  B620 

On  the  battle  front  of  engineering.     1918.     Century. 
Deals  with  some  of  the   epoch  making   feats  of  modern  engineering,   including  the 
building  of  the  New  York  subway  and  the  cantilever  bridge  at  Quebec.     Though  written 
in  story  form  the  adventures  recounted  are  based  on  fact  and  the  information  is  authen- 
tic.     Illustrated. 


48  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Bond,  Alexander  Russell.  j  620  B62p 

Pick,  shovel  and  pluck;  further  experiences  "With  the  men  who  do 
things."     1915.     Munn.     (Scientific  American  boy  series.) 

Two  boys  make  a  study  of  engineering  undertakings.  They  visit  the  Panama 
canal,  the  steel  works  at  Gary,  the  Keokuk  dam  and  other  places';  and  learn  about 
salvaging  wrecks,  taking  submarine  motion  pictures,  raising  the  Maine,  mining  with  hot 
water,  bridge  building  and  other  feats.     Illustrated  with  drawings  and  photographs. 

Bond,  Alexander  Russell.  j  790  B62 

Scientific  American  boy;  or,  The  camp  at  Willow  Clump  island. 
1906.     Munn. 

Simple  directions  for  making  all  sorts  of  things,  such  as  skate  sails,  snow-shoes, 
tents,  ice-boats,  canvas  canoes,  log  cabins,  windmills,  kites  and  tramping  outfits.  There 
is  also  a  chapter  on  wigwagging  and  heliographing. 

Bond,  Alexander  Russell.  j  620  B62 

With  the  men  who  do  things.  1913.  Munn.  (Scientific  American 
boy  series.) 

"Two  boys  spend  their  vacation  in  New  York,  seeing  skyscrapers  erected,  under- 
ground foundations  laid,  tunnels  dug  [under]  water  and  the  housekeeping  of  a  great  city 
carried  on.  Though  presented  in  the  form  of  a  rather  artificial  story,  the  engineering 
data  have  been  verified  by  experts  and  most  of  the  incidents  are  founded  on  fact.  Illus- 
trated by  many  good  photographs."     Booklist,  1914. 

Bone,   Florence.  j   B623C 

Curiosity  Kate.     Little. 

"Story  of  an  English  girls'  boarding-school  called  Coniston  College.  Kate  herself, 
a  descendant  of  a  famous  Tudor  family,  comes  to  the  school  as  a  spoiled  child  to  find 
that  her  whims  and  fancies  and  her  much  boasted  ancestry  are  of  little  consequence  to 
the  clever  girls  in  her  'form.'  "     Publisher's  weekly,  1912. 

Boniface-Saintine,    Xavier.     See    Saintine,    Joseph    Xavier    Boniface, 

called. 
Bonn,  Franz.  qj  831  B62h 

Hausmiitterchen;  original-zeichnungen  von  Oscar  Pletsch,  in  holz- 
schnitt  ausgefiihrt  von  R.  Brend'amour,  H.  Giinther  und  K.  Oertel,  mit 
reimen  von  Franz  Bonn. 
Bonn,  Franz.  qj  831  B62 

Nesthakchen;  sechzehn  original-zeichnungen  von  Oscar  Pletsch,  in 
holzschnitt  ausgefiihrt  von  H.  Giinther,  mit  reimen  von  Franz  Bonn. 
Bonner,  John.  j  944  B62 

Child's  history  of  France.     1893.     Harper. 

A  history  which  does  not  overlook  the  delight  of  young  people  in  romance,  incident 
and  local  color. 

Bonvoisin,  Maurice.     Sec  Mars,  pseud. 

j  394  B63a 
Book  of  Christmas,  with  an  introduction  by  H.  W.  Mabie  and  an  ac- 
companiment of  drawings  by  G.  W.  Edwards.     1913-     Macmillan. 

Contents:  Signs  of  the  season. — Holiday  saints  and  lords. — Christmas  customs  and 
beliefs. — Christmas  carols. — Christmas  day. — Christmas  hymns. — Christmas  revels. — 
When  all  the  world  is  kin. —Christmas  stories. — New  Year. — Twelfth  night:  Epiphany. 
— The  Christmas  spirit. 

Stories,  poems,  carols  and  sketches  about  Christmas,  with  customs  and  beliefs  con- 
nected with  the  day.  •  gg 

Book  of  the  childhood  of  Christ;  depicted  by  the  old  masters.     [1915-] 
Stokes. 

Twelve  color  plates,  with  Scripture  text  and  explanatory  notes. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  49 

qj  755  B63b 
Book  of  the  passion  of  our  Lord;  depicted  by  the  old  masters.  [1916.] 
Stokes. 

Twelve  color  plates,  with  Scripture  text  and  explanatory  notes. 

Boone,  Cheshire  L.  comp.  j  790  B63 

Guide  and  index  [to  Children's  library  of  work  and  play],  iou. 
Doubleday.     (Children's  library  of  work  and  play.) 

Contents:  Significance  of  the  crafts  in  the  life  of  a  people. — The  cultivation  of 
taste  and  design. — The  real  girl. — That  boy. — A  house  and  lot,  especially  the  lot. — Vaca- 
tions, athletics,  scouting,  camping,   photography. — Index   [to  the  10  volumes  of  the  set]. 

Borup,  George.  j  919.8  B63 

A  tenderfoot  with  Peary,  with  a  preface  by  G.  W.  Melville.     191 1. 

Stokes. 

The  author,  a  Yale  athlete,  was  the  youngest  member  of  the  Peary  polar  expedition 
of  1908  which  discovered  the  North  pole.  He  tells  of  igloo  building,  seal  shooting, 
sledging  and  hunting,  and  other  experiences. 

Bosschere,  Jean  de,  comp.  qj  398  B64 

Folk  tales  of  Flanders;  collected  and  illustrated  by  Jean  de  Boss- 
chere.    1918.     Dodd. 

Humorous  fairy  tales  with  many  pictures,  some  in  color  and  others  in  black  and 
white. 

Bostock,  Frank  Charles.  j  599-7  B64 

Training  of  wild  animals.     1903.     Century. 

Author  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  wild  animal  trainers.  He  tells  how  lions,  tigers 
and  other  wild  beasts  are  taught  to  do  tricks,  about  their  traits  in  captivity  and  about 
the  hazardous  lives  of  their  trainers.     Many  pictures. 

j  B644 

Boston   collection   of  kindergarten   stories;  written   and   collected   by 
Boston  kindergarten  teachers.     Hammett. 

Bourne,  Henry  Eldridge,  &  Benton,  E.  J.  j  973  B65 

Introductory  American  history.     1912.     Heath. 

"References   for  teachers,"   p. 253-258. 

Introductory  part  of  a  course  in  American  history  embodying  the  plan  of  study 
recommended  by  the  Committee  of  eight  of  the  American  Historical  Association.  Begin- 
ning with  the  story  of  Greece,  traces  the  various  world  movements  for  conquest  or 
colonization  which  lead  up  to  American  history  and  gives  an  account  of  American  dis- 
covery and  exploration. 

Boutet  de  Monvel,  Maurice.  j  92  J32gm 

Jeanne  d'Arc. 

Account  of  the  life  and  death  of  the  peasant  girl  of  Domrcmy,  warrior  maid  and 
martyr;  with  many  beautiful  illustrations  in  color  by  the  author.  The  text  is  in  French, 
but  the  pictures  tell  the  story. 

Boutet  de  Monvel,  Maurice.  j  92  j329mo 

Joan  of  Arc.     1907.     Century. 

Same  as  the  author's  "Jeanne  d'Arc"  but  with  English  text. 
The  same.     1918.     McKay j  92  j32gmo2 

Size  of  book  is   reduced  and  only  ten  of  the   pictures  are  included. 

Bouvet,  Marguerite.  j  B66is 

Sweet  William.    McClurg. 

Romantic   story   of   a   little    prince   of   Normandy    who    was   imprisoned    in    a 
during  the  days  of  chivalry. 


50  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Bower,  John  A.  j  684  B66 

How  to  make  common  things;  for  boys.  1892.  Soc.  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge.     • 

Describes  simple  forms  of  toys,  furniture,  woodwork,  electrical  apparatus,  wirework, 
ironwork,  etc.  A  very  practical  book  for  the  boy  who  wants  to  make  things  without 
elaborate  appliances. 

Bowker,  Isabelle  F.  j  372  B66 

Busy  hands;  construction  work  for  children.     1904.     Flanagan. 

Directions,  with  illustrative  pictures,  for  making  an  Indian  canoe,  a  Dutch  windmill, 
houses  for  a  Puritan  village,  valentines,  a  Japanese  sunshade,  a  raffia  work-basket, 
a  picture-frame,  a  bead  belt  and  other  objects. 

Bowman,  Isaiah.  j  918  B66 

South  America;  a  geography  reader.  1915.  Rand.  (Lands  and 
peoples  series.) 

Tells  of  the  life  of  the  people  in  the  countries  of  South  America  and  of  the  reasons 
for  their  differing  habits,  customs  and  industries.  Many  of  the  facts  have  been  gathered 
first-hand  in  the  course  of  expeditions  to  Peru,  Bolivia,  Chile  and  the  Argentine. 
Twelve  colored  maps,  and  other  text  maps  and  pictures. 

Boy  mechanic.    2v.     1913-15.     Popular  Mechanics  Co.  qj  680  B66 

Many  suggestions  for  constructive  work  and  experiments.  Among  the  subjects  in- 
cluded are  electrical  apparatus,  gliders,  kites  and  balloons,  canoes,  boats  and  camping 
outfits,  fishing  tackle,  magic  lanterns  and  cameras,  devices  for  winter  sports. 

Boy  Scouts  of  America.  j  369.2  B66a2 

Official  handbook  for  boys.     1919.     Grosset. 

Contents:  Scoutcraft. — Woodcraft. — Wild  life  and  conservation. — Campcraft. — 
Signs,  symbols  and  signaling. — Health  and  endurance. — Chivalry. — Prevention  of  acci- 
dents, first  aid  and  life  saving. — Games. — Patriotism  and  citizenship. 

Includes  a  list  of  books  for  reference  and  reading. 

Boyd,  Ida  Estelle.  j  790  B66 

When  mother  lets  us  cut  out  pictures.     1912.    Moffat. 

Shows  children  how  to  cut  dolls,  houses,  chairs,  tables,  trees  and  many  other  things 
out  of  paper.     Many  pictures. 

Boyesen,  Hjalmar  Hjorth.  j  B66ga 

Against  heavy  odds;  a  tale  of  Norse  heroism,  and  A  fearless  trio. 
Scribner. 

Two  stories  of  modern  Norse  life :  the  first,  a  story  of  a  boy  who  invents  a  har- 
poon-gun and  who  by  his  pluck  and  perseverance  overcomes  many  obstacles  and  finally 
succeeds  in  his  undertaking;  the  other,  a  story  of  three  brothers  who  bravely  and  ener- 
getically go  to  work  to  retrieve  their  father's  fallen  fortunes. 

Boyesen,  Hjalmar  Hjorth.  j  B66gb 

Boyhood  in  Norway;  stories  of  boy-life  in  the  land  of  the  midnight 

sun.     Scribner. 

Contents:     Battle  of  the  rafts. — -Biceps  Grimlund's  Christmas  vacation. — The  nixy's 

strain. — The  wonder  child. — "The  sons  of  the  vikings." — Paul  Jespersen's  masquerade. — 

Lady  Clare. — Bonnyboy. — The  child  of  luck. — The  bear  that  had  a  bank  account. 

Boyesen,  Hjalmar  Hjorth.  j  B66gmo 

Modern  vikings;  stories  of  life  in  the  Norseland.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Tharald's  otter. — Between  sea  and  sky. — Mikkel. — The  famine  among 
the  gnomes. — How  Bernt  went  whaling. — The  cooper  and  the  wolves. — -Magnie's  danger- 
ous ride. — Thorwald  and  the  star-children. — Big  Hans  and  little  Hans. — A  new  winter 
sport. — The  skerry  of  shrieks. — Fiddle-John's  family. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  51 

Boyesen,  Hjalmar  Hjorth.  j  B66gn 

Norseland  tales.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Zuleika. — The  sunless  world. — Life  for  life. — The  adventures  of  a  "dig." 
— The  runaway's  Thanksgiving. — A  born  chieftain.— Feud  of  the  Wildhaymen. — The 
little  chap. — The  sun's  sisters. — Little  Alvilda. 

Adventures  of  Norway  boys  at  home  and  abroad. 

Boys,  Charles  Vernon.  j  532  B67 

Soap-bubbles  and  the  forces  which  mould  them.  1902.  Soc.  for 
Promoting  Christian  Knowledge.     (Romance  of  science  series.) 

Describes  a  series  of  experiments  many  of  which  require  no  apparatus  beyond  a  few 
pieces  of  glass  or  rubber  pipe,  or  other  simple  things  easily  obtained. 

Bradish,  Sarah  Powers.  j  293  B68 

Old  Norse  stories.  1900.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Eclectic  school  read- 
ings.) 

Norse  myths.  Contains  also  the  story  of  Sigurd,  "the  prince  of  the  sunlight,  who 
killed  the  dragon  of  cold  and  darkness  and  waked  the  dawn  maiden." 

Brady,  Cyrus  Townsend.  j  B686m 

A  midshipman  in  the  Pacific;  his  adventures  on  whaler,  trader  and 
frigate.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Kidnapped  and  impressed  into  the  service  of  a  British  whaling  vessel,  the  boy  hero 
has  thrilling  adventures.  He  is  shipwrecked,  becomes  mate  on  a  merchant  ship,  is  cap- 
tured by  Indians  and  finally  takes  part  in  the  valiant  defense  of  the  Essex  in  Valparaiso 
harbor. 

Brady,  Cyrus  Townsend,  ed.  j  B686b2 

Sea  stories.     Hall  &  Locke.     (Young  folks'  library,  new  ser.  v.13.) 

Contents:  The  mutiny  of  the  Bounty. — Our  first  whale,  by  F.  T.  Bullen. — Going 
to  sea  a  hundred  years  ago,  by  R.  J.  Cleveland. — The  escape  of  the  American  frigate 
Alliance,  Among  the  ice  floes,  by  J.  F.  Cooper.- — A  tornado  at  sea,  by  George  Cupples. — 
My  first  voyage,  by  R.  H.  Dana. — Running  away  to  sea,  by  Daniel  Defoe. — The  tempest, 
by  Charles  Dickens. — A  struggle  with  a  devil  fish,  The  man  and  the  cannon,  by  Victor 
Hugo. — A  ship  on  fire  at  sea,  by  Jean  Ingelow. — In  the  Gulf  stream,  by  Charles  Kings- 
ley. — The  loss  of  the  Royal  George,  by  W.  H.  G.  Kingston. — Sailors'  yarns,  by  Pierre 
Loti. — Equality  at  sea,  The  club-hauling  of  the  Diomede,  by  Captain  F.  Marryat. — The 
chase,  Rounding  Cape  Horn,  by  Herman  Melville. — The  merchantman  and  the  pirate, 
by  Charles  Reade. — A  gale  of  wind,  Saved,  by  W.  C.  Russell. — The  capture  of  the  cot- 
ton ship,  by  Michael  Scott. — The  cruise  of  the  Coracle,  by  R.  L.  Stevenson. — Landing 
on  the  island,  by  J.  R.  Wyss. 

Braine,  Sheila  E.  qj  604  B68 

Merchant  ships  and  what  they  bring  us;  a  book  for  boys  and  girls, 
illustrated  by  C.J.  de  Lacy.     [1913?]     Nister. 

Picture-book.  Text  tells  briefly  about  grain,  timber,  cotton,  wool,  tea,  sugar  and 
other  products. 

Brearley,  Harry  Chase.  j  591.4  B71 

Animal  secrets  told;  a  book  of  "whys."    1911.    Stokes. 

Explains  the  causes  for  the  various  peculiarities  of  animals;  why  some  have  "front- 
eyes"   and  others   "side-eyes,"   why   their   ears,   mouths,   tongues,   feet,   etc.    differ;    why 
some  have  feathers  and  others  scales  or  shells  or  quills;  why  the  hare  has  a  winti 
and  the  squirrel  a  bushy  tail.     Illustrations  from  drawings  by  the  author  and  from  photo- 
graphs taken  in  the  New  York  zoological  park. 

Breck,  Edward.  j  590.4  B72 

Wilderness  pets  at  Camp  Buckshaw.     1910.     Houghton. 

Some  young  people  camp  out  with  a  trapper  in  the  Nova  Scotia  forest.  Tells  many 
stories  of  the  bear  cubs,  Pompey  the  porcupine,  "Nigghy"  and  the  gulls  and  other  wild 
animal  and  bird  pets.  Based  on  the  author's  own  experiences  and  illustrated  from 
photographs. 


52  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Britton,  Elizabeth  Gertrude.  j  580  B75 

Wild  plants  needing  protection. 

Contents:  Jack  in  the  pulpit. — Spring  beauty. — Wild  pink. — Wild  columbine. — 
Bird's-foot  violet. — Wild  azalea. — Pink  moccasin  flower. — American,  or,  mountain  laurel. 
— Flowering  dogwood. 

Reprinted  from  the  "Journal  of  the  New  York  Botanical  Garden,"  v. 13-14,  May 
1912-July  1913. 

Contains  colored  plates. 

Bronte,  Charlotte,  afterward  Mrs  Nicholls,  (pseud.  Currer  Bell),     j  B771J 
Jane   Eyre.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

English  story  telling  of  Jane's  lonely   childhood,   her   days   of  starvation   at  school, 
her  life  as  a  governess,  and  of  many  strange  events  which  took  place  at  Thornfield  hall. 
For  older  girls. 

Brooke,  Leonard  Leslie.  qj  398  B772 

Golden  goose  book.     [1906.]     Warne. 

Being  the  stories  of  The  golden  goose,  The  three  bears,  The  three  little  pigs,  and 
Tom  Thumb,  with  many  colored  pictures. 

One  of  the  best  picture-books  for  children  and  one  of  the  most  popular. 

Brooke,  Leonard  Leslie.  j  B772J 

Johnny  Crow's  garden;  a  picture  book.    Warne. 

A  nursery  rhyme  with  humorous  illustrations  in  black  and  white  and  full-page 
drawings  in  color;  an  attractive  picture-book. 

Brooke,  Leonard  Leslie.  j  B772J0 

Johnny  Crow's  party;  another  picture  book.     Warne. 

Pictures,  some  of  them  colored,  of  the  armadillo,  the  porcupine,  the  chimpanzee, 
the  kangaroo  who  "tried  to  paint  the  roses  blue,"  and  the  other  animals  that  came  to 
Johnny  Crow's  party. 

Brooke,  Leonard  Leslie.  j  B772t 

The  tailor  and  the  crow;  an  old  rhyme  with  new  drawings  by  L.  L. 
Brooke.    Warne. 

Brooke-Hunt,  Violet.     See  Hunt,  Violet  Brooke- 
Brooks,  Dorothy.  j  B7733S 
Stories  of  the  red  children  [Indians].     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

What  the  little  red  children  believe  about  the  wind,  stars,  rain  and  other  wonders 
of  nature.     The  type   is  large  and  the  language  simple. 

Brooks,  Edward.  j  398.25  B77 

Story  of  King  Arthur  and  the  knights  of  the  Table  Round;  for  boys 
and  girls.     1900.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Retold  from  Malory's  "Morte  Darthur." 

Brooks,  Edward.  j  873  V34ab 

Story  of  the  ^Eneid;  or,  The  adventures  of  yEneas;  for  boys  and 
girls.     1899.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Tells  of  his  voyage  from  Troy,  after  its  destruction  by  the  Greeks,  to  the  land  of 
Latium  and  his  contest  with  the  Latin  tribes.  , 

Brooks,  Edward.  j  883  H75ibr 

Story  of  the  Iliad;  or,  The  siege  of  Troy;  for  boys  and  girls.  1899. 
Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Of  the  quarrel  that  arose  among  the  Greek  chiefs  at  the  siege  of  Troy  and  of  the 
dire  results.  Achilles,  Hector,  Diomed  and  Patroclus  are  some  of  the  heroes  whose 
valiant  deeds  are  recorded. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  53 


Brooks,  Edward.  J  883  H75obr 

Story  of  the  Odyssey;  or,  The  adventures  of  Ulysses;  for  boys  and 

girls.     1898.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Companion  volume  to  the  author's  "Story  of  the  Iliad."  Gives  a  straightforward 
account  of  the  wanderings  and  perils  of  Ulysses  on  his  voyage  back  to  Ithaca. 

"In  the  Odyssey  we  roam  from  land  to  land  and  from  sea  to  sea;  and  the  restless 
hero  never  seems  so  much  at  home  as  when  he  is  on  his  galley's  deck."     Preface. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  656.8  677a 

The  American  sailor.     Rev.  ed.     1899.     Lothrop. 

Revised  edition  of  "Story  of  the  American  sailor." 

Includes  both  navy  and  merchant  service  and  traces  the  development  of  American 
seamanship  from  the  time  of  the  Indians  and  Northmen  to  the  late  Spanish  war.  Arctic 
explorations,  whaling,  smuggling,  lake  and  river  service  are  all  included  in  the  story. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  973  677a 

American  soldier;  the  story  of  the  fighting-man  of  America,  from 
conquistador  to  Rough  Rider,  from  1492  to  1900.     1899.     Lothrop. 

Revised  edition  of  "Story  of  the  American  soldier  in  war  and  peace." 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j   6773b 

Boy  of  the  first  empire.     Century. 

Story  of  a  Paris  waif  who  gave  valuable  information  to  Napoleon  and  was  made  a 
page  of  the  palace. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  342-7  B77 

Century  book  for  young  Americans,  showing  how  a  party  of  boys 
and  girls  who  knew  how  to  use  their  eyes  and  ears  found  out  all  about 
the  government  of  the  United  States.     1894.     Century. 

Partial  contents:  The  constitution.— The  president. — The  Cabinet. — The  Senate. — 
The  House  of  representatives. — The  Supreme  court. — The  state,  war  and  navy  depart- 
ments.— The  departments  of  justice,  of  the  interior  and  of  agriculture. — The  national 
capital. 

Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  923  B77 

Century  book  of  famous  Americans;  the  story  of  a  young  people's 

pilgrimage  to  historic  homes.     1896.     Century. 
Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  973-2  B77 

Century  book  of  the  American  colonies;  the  story  of  the  pilgrimage 
of  a  party  of  young  people  to  the  sites  of  the  earliest  American  colo- 
nies.    1900.     Century. 

Partial  contents:  Where  the  Adelantados  ruled. — In  the  rival  capitals. — Under  live- 
oak  and  magnolia. — In  the  lost  colony.— Where  the  Old  Dominion  began. — From  Shack- 
amaxon  to  Sandy  Hook. — In  Knickerbocker  land. — Through  the  plantations. — On  the 
Heights  of  Abraham. 

.Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  973-3  B77 

Century  book  of  the  American  revolution;  the  story  of  the  pilgrim- 
age of  a  party  of  young  people  to  the  battle-fields  of  the  American 
revolution.     1897.     Century. 
Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  920  B77h 

Historic  Americans.     1899.     Crowell. 

Contents:  John  Winthrop. — Benjamin  Franklin. — James  Otis. — George  Washing- 
ton.— Samuel    Adams. — Patrick    Henry. — John    Adams. — Thomas    Jefferson. — Alexander 


54  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter — continued.  j  920  Bfjh 

Hamilton. — Robert  Morris. — John  Jay. — John  Marshall. — James  Madison. — James  Mon- 
roe.— John  Quincy  Adams. — Eli  Whitney. — Andrew  Jackson. — Daniel  Webster. — Wash- 
ington Irving. — Henry  Clay. — John  Caldwell  Calhoun. — Samuel  Finley  Breese  Morse. — 
Horace  Mann. — Abraham  Lincoln. — Henry  Wadsworth  Longfellow. — Ulysses   S.   Grant. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  920  B77 

Historic  boys.     1894.    Putnam. 

Contents:  Marcus  of  Rome. — Brian  of  Munster. — Olaf  of  Norway. — William  of 
Normandy. — Baldwin  of  Jerusalem. — -Frederick  of  Hohenstaufen. — Harry  of  Monmouth. 
— Giovanni  of  Florence. — Ixtlil'  of  Tezcuco. — -Louis  of  Bourbon. — Charles  of  Sweden. — 
Van  Rensselaer  of  Rensselaerswyck. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.u,  Feb.-Oct.   1884. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  920.7  B77 

Historic  girls.     1899.     Putnam. 

Contents:  Zenobia  of  Palmyra. — Helena  of  Britain.- — Pulcheria  of  Constantinople. 
— Clotilda  of  Burgundy. — Woo  of  Hwang-ho. — Edith  of  Scotland. — Jacqueline  of  Hol- 
land.— Catarina  of  Venice. — Theresa  of  Avila. — Elizabeth  of  Tudor. — Christina  of 
Sweden. — Ma-ta-oka  of  Pow-ha-tan. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 12-15,  Jan-  1885-Nov.  1887. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  B773i 

In  Leisler's  times.    Lothrop. 

Tale  of  Knickerbocker  New  York  in  the  days  of  that  staunch  patriot,  Jacob  Leisler, 
lieutenant-governor  of  the  province. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  B7731T1 

Master  of  the  Strong  Hearts.     Dutton. 

Stirring  tale  of  Custer's  last  rally  in  the  valley  of  the  Little  Big  Horn  and  his  de- 
feat by  Sitting  Bull,  the  medicine  chief  of  the  Sioux,  and  crafty  Master  of  the  Strong 
Hearts. 

For  more  about  Gen.   Custer  read  "The  boy  general,"  or  "Boots  and  saddles." 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  B773SO 

Son  of  the  Revolution.     Wilde. 

Being  the  story  of  young  Tom  Edwards,  adventurer,  and  how  he  labored  for  liberty 
and  fought  it  out  with  his  conscience  in  the  days  of  Burr's  conspiracy. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  B773S 

Storied  holidays;  a  cycle  of  historic  red-letter  days.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  Master  Sandy's  snapdragon. — Mistress  Margery's  pin-money. — Mr  Pepys's 
valentine. — The  last  of  the  Geraldines. — Diccon,  the  foot-boy,  and  the  wise  fools  of 
Gotham. — The  lady  Octavia's  garland. — The  little  lady  of  England. — -When  George  the 
Third  was  king. — The  daughter  of  Daicles. — The  little  lord  keeper's  goose. — The  little 
Donna  Juana. — Patem's  salmagundi. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  974.4  B77 

Stories  of  the  old  Bay  state.     1899.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

The  familiar  stories  interwoven  with  the  early  history  of  Massachusetts,  having  for 
their  heroes  such  men  as  Miles  Standish,  Governor  Winthrop,  Sir  Harry  Vane,  James 
Otis,  the  Adamses,  Hancock  and  Revere,  Daniel  Webster  and  Horace  Mann,  Everett 
and  Sumner. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  970.1  B77 

Story  of  the  American  Indian.     1887.     Lothrop. 

"Best  100  books  on  the  American  Indian,"  p.301-308. 
His  origin,   development,   decline   and  destiny. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  909.8  B77 

Story  of  the  19th  century.     1900.    Lothrop. 

Contents:  The  age  of  Napoleon. — The  age  of  Wellington. — The  age  of  Bolivar. — 
The  age  of  Jackson. — The  age  of  Kossuth. — The  age  of  Cavcur. — The  age  of  Lincoln. — 
The  age  of  Bismarck. — The  age  of  Tolstoi. — The  age  of  Edison. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  55 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  92  Lyisbr 

True  story  of  Abraham  Lincoln.  1896.  Lothrop.  (Children's  lives 
of  great  men.) 

"Abraham  Lincoln,  the  savior  of  his  country  and,  above  all  others, — the  American." 
How  "he  rose  to  the  highest  eminence,  and  died  a  martyr  for  liberty,  union  and  the 
rights  of  man."     Preface. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  92  F87gbr 

True  story  of  Benjamin  Franklin.  1898.  Lothrop.  (Children's  lives 
of  great  men.) 

Partial  contents:  Why  the  candle-maker's  son  peddled  ballads. — How  the  boy-editor 
had  his  troubles. — How  he  became  Dr  Franklin. — How  he  became  president  of  Pennsyl- 
vania.— How  he  saved  the  country  the  third  time. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  92  C727b 

True  story  of  Christopher  Columbus.     1892.     Lothrop.     (Children's 

lives  of  great  men.) 

Partial   contents:     A  boy   with   an   idea. — How   Columbus   gained   a   queen   for  his 

friend. — How  the  admiral  sailed  away. — What  Columbus  discovered. — How  the  troubles 

of  the  admiral  began. — How  the  admiral  played  Robinson  Crusoe. 
Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  92  W272b 

True  story  of  George  Washington.  1895.  Lothrop.  (Children's 
lives  of  great  men.) 

Partial  contents:  A  boy  of  Virginia,  and  how  he  grew  up. — Why  the  boy  who 
wished  to  be  a  sailor  became  a  surveyor. — How  the  surveyor  became  a  soldier. — The  first 
American  president. 

.Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  92  Li44b 

True  story  of  Lafayette.  1899.  Lothrop.  (Children's  lives  of  great 
men.) 

The  stirring  story  of  the  gallant  Frenchman  who  was  "connected  with  both  hemi- 
spheres and  with  two  generations."     Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  973  B77t3 

True  story  of  the  United  States  of .  America  [to  1913],  told  for 
young  people.     1913.     Lothrop. 

Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Elbridge  Streeter.  j  92  G78gbr 

True  story  of  U.  S.  Grant.  1897.  Lothrop.  (Children's  lives  of 
great  men.) 

How  the  son  of  a  Western  tanner  became  the  leader  of  the  United  States  army  and, 
later,  president  of  the  United  States.     Many  pictures. 

Brooks,  Eugene  Clyde.  j  633.71  B77 

The  story  of  cotton  and  the  development  of  the  cotton  states.  191 1. 
Rand. 

Treats  of  the  cultivation  and  manufacture  of  cotton  and  the  development  of  the  in- 
dustry by  means  of  improved  machinery  and  inventions.  Also  traces  its  influence  on  the 
history  of  America  and  its  relation  to  the  life  of  the  people. 

For  grammar  or  high  school  use. 

Brooks,  Noah.  j  67732b 

Boy  emigrants.    Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"  v. 3,  Nov.    1875-Oct.    1876. 

Full  of  adventures  encountered  by  some  boys  who  crossed  the  Western  plains  in  the 
"golden  days  of  '49,"  when  those  vast  regions  belonged  to  the  Indians  and  wild  beasts. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  H.  T.  Dunn.     Scribner.  .  .  .j  B7732b2 
Ten  full-page  colored  plates. 


56  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Brooks,  Noah.  j  B7732DO 

Boy  settlers;  early  times  in  Kansas.     Scribner. 
Appeared  in   "St.    Nicholas,"   v.i8,   Nov.    1890-June    1891. 

Story  of  free-soil  emigrants  and  border  ruffians.  An  Indian  raid  and  a  buffalo 
hunt  form  some  of  the  adventures  of  "the  boy  settlers." 

Brooks,  Noah.  j  B7732f2 

Boys  of  Fairport.     Scribner. 
Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 7,  May-Oct.  1880. 
A  base-ball  story.     Originally  published  as  "The  Fairport  nine." 

Brooks,  Noah. 

Fairport  nine.    See  his  Boys  of  Fairport. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Brooks,  Noah.  j  917.8  B77 

First  across  the  continent;  the  story  of  the  exploring  expedition  of 
Lewis  and  Clark  in  1804-6.     1901.    Scribner. 

"These  men,  with  their  faithful  followers,  were  the  first  white  men  who  crossed  the 
continent  of  North  America  between  the  regions  occupied  by  the  Spanish  and  those  of 
the  people  of  English  descent.  They  were  the  first  to  explore  the  valleys  of  the  Upper 
Missouri,  the  Yellowstone,  and  the  Columbia  and  its  tributaries.  Many  of  the  red  men 
who  inhabited  those  pathless  wildernesses  looked  for  the  first  time  on  pale-faces  when 
they  saw  these  adventurous  discoverers."     Preface. 

Brooks,  Noah.  j  353  B77 

How  the  Republic  is  governed.     1897.     Scribner. 

Describes  briefly  the  legislative,  executive  and  judiciary  systems  of  the  United 
States,  the  official  business  methods,  and  regulation  of  revenues,  coinage,  pensions,  suf- 
frage, public  lands,  etc. 

Brooks,  Noah.  j  B7732I 

Lem,  a  New  England  village  boy;  his  adventures  and  his  mishaps. 
Scribner. 

Brooks,  Noah.  j  915  B77 

Story  of  Marco  Polo.     1898.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.23-24,  June  1896-April  1897. 

The  Polos  were  Venetians  who  explored  the  far  East  in  the  13th  century  and  dwelt 
for  many  years  at  the  court  of  Kublai  Khan,  ruler  of  the  Mongolian  empire.  After  their 
return,  Marco,  the  youngest  Polo,  was  captured  by  the  Genoese  and  while  in  prison 
caused  to  be  put  in  writing  all  the  great  marvels  that  he  had  seen.  This  famous  book  of 
travel  contains  strange  tales  of  the  miserly  caliph  of  Bagdad,  the  conjurers  of  Cashmere, 
the  sea  of  sand,  the  fabled  salamander,  the  wonders  of  India,  the  mythical  roc  and  its 
mighty  eggs,  and  many  others. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  398.2  B78 

Book  of  saints  and  friendly  beasts.     1901.     Houghton. 

Tells  of  Bridget,  the  little  girl  saint  of  Ireland;  of  St.  Prisca,  the  child  martyr  of 
Rome;  of  the  birds  of  St.  Cuthbert;  of  the  fish  which  helped  St.  Gudwall;  of  St.  Francis 
of  Assisi,  who  was  beloved  by  the  wild  creatures  of  shore  and  forest. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  6784b 

Brothers  and  sisters.     Houghton. 

Contents:  The  Christmas  cat. — The  Christmas  cat's  present. — The  Japanese  shop. — 
April  Fool's  night. — The  April  Fool.- — The  April-Fool  journey.— The  doll's  May-party. — 
The  dark  room. — The  garden  of  live  flowers. — Buried  treasure. — The  pieced  baby. — 
The  alarm. — Brothers  and  sisters.  —Tommy's  letter. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  B784C 

The  Christmas  angel.    Houghton. 

How  the  Christmas  angel  brought  the  Christmas  spirit  to  Miss  Angelina  and  a  home 
to  little  orphan  Mary. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  57 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  B784f 

Flower  princess  [and  other  stories].     Houghton. 

Other  stories:     The  little  friend. — The  mermaid's  child. — The  10  blowers. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  293  B78 

In  the  days  of  giants;  a  book  of  Norse  tales.     1902.     Houghton. 

How  Father  Odin  lost  his  eye,  the  story  of  Idun  and  her  magic  apples,  how  the 
great  god  Thor  fared  to  Giant  land  and  how  he  went  a-fishing  for  the  Midgard  serpent, 
the  story  of  Baldur  the  Beautiful,  and  other  tales  told  of  old  by  the  Norse  folk. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  B784J 

John  of  the  woods;  illustrations  by  E.  B.  Smith.     Houghton. 

A  boy  tumbler,  who  runs  away  from  his  cruel  masters,  finds  a  home  with  a  hermit 
in  the  forest,  makes  friends  of  the  animals  and  birds,  and  finally  saves  the  life  of  the 
king's  son. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  B784I 

Lonesomest  doll.     Houghton. 

A  fanciful  story  of  a  lonely  little  queen,  her  lonely  doll,  her  porter's  happy  little 
daughter,  and  the  remarkable  adventures  of  the  three. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  811  B78 

Pocketful  of  posies  [poems].     1902.     Houghton. 

Verses  and  rhymes  telling  about  the  spoiled  violin,  the  Pummy  and  the  wicked 
Glu-glu  bird,  an  adventure  in  Cookie  land,  the  fate  of  a  greedy  pincushion,  etc. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  B784S 

Star  jewels,  and  other  wonders.     Houghton. 

Five  fairy  tales:  The  star  jewels. — The  balloon  boy. — The  green  cap. — Karl  and 
the  dryad. — The  Indian  fairy. 

"In  the  land  of  Far-away, 
In  the  time  of  Used-to-be, 
Wonders   happened,  so   folk  say 
Which  we  all  should  like  to  see." 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  B784SU 

Surprise  house.     Houghton. 

Appeared  in  the  "Young  churchman"  under  the  title  "Aunt  Nan's  legacy." 

The  house  is  a  legacy  from  an  eccentric  aunt  and  it  contains  many  surprises  for  the 

Corliss  family.     One  exciting  discovery  after  another  is  made  until   finally    Mary,   with 

the  aid  of  a  volume  of  "Hamlet,"  finds  a  treasure. 

Brown,  Abbie  Farwell.  j  B784t 

Their  city  Christmas;  a  story  for  boys  and  girls.     Houghton. 

"The  Hodges  twins  from  Maine"  spend  a  happy  Christmas  vacation  in  the  city  and 
form  a  cooking  club  and  a  fun  club. 

Brown,  Alice.  j  B7830 

The  one-footed  fairy,  and  other  stories.    Houghton. 

Other  stories:  Perizad  and  Perizada. — Peter  the  simple. — The  cry  fairy.— How 
Gladheart  went  to  court. — The  hippogriff  and  the  dragon. — The  land  without  common 
folks. — The  unambitious  queen. — The  wonderful  tapestry. — The  little  brown  hen. — Rose- 
bloom  and  Thornbloom. — The  gradual  fairy. — The  green  goblin. 

Brown,  Alice.  j  B783S 

Secret  of  the  clan.     Macmillan. 

The  four  girls  who  belong  to  the  clan  have  jolly  times  together,  but  the  keeping  of 
the  tribal  oath  leads  to  all  sorts  of  difficulties  until  the  "fairy  queen"  finally  finds  the 
way  out. 

Brown,  Bertha  Millard.  j  614  B78 

Health  in  home  and  town.     1912.     Heatli. 

"Books  for  the  teacher,"  p. 299-303. 

First  part  deals  with  the  home — -the  lighting,  heating  and  ventilation,  the  furnishing, 
decorating  and  care  of  the  house.  The  second  half  treats  of  the  healthful  city  -parks 
and  play-grounds,  food  and  water-supply,  prevention  of  disease. 


58  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Brown,  Clara  L.  &  Bailey,  C.  S.  j  372.4  B78 

Jingle  primer.     1906.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Mother  Goose  rhymes  and  folk  tales.     Humorous  illustrations. 

Brown,  Mrs  Demetra  (Vaka).  j  B7851 

Finella  in  fairyland,  with  illustrations  by  Agnes  Leach.     Houghton. 

What  happened  to  a  little  girl  who  had  never  learned  to  be  kind  and  who  was 
carried  away  by  the  butterfly  people  into  fairyland. 

Brown,  Edna  Adelaide.  j  67852a 

Archer  and  the  "Prophet."    Lothrop. 

Sequel  to  "Arnold's  little  brother." 

Archer,  now  a  senior  at  St.  Stephens  and  house-president,  is  the  central  character, 
and  the  "Prophet"  is  a  runaway  boy  whom  he  befriends. 

Brown,  Edna  Adelaide.  j  B7852ar 

Arnold's  little  brother.     Lothrop. 

School  story.  The  interest  is  centered  in  two  brothers:  the  older,  house-president 
and  captain  of  the  eleven ;  the  younger,  Archer,  a  boy  of  nine  with  musical  ability 
and  a  propensity  for  getting  into  scrapes  which  involve  Paul  in  various  difficulties. 

Brown,  Edna  Adelaide.  j  B7852f 

Four  Gordons.     Lothrop. 

Louise  and  her  three  brothers  have  all  sorts  of  experiences  at  home  and  at  school 
during  the  absence  of  their  parents  for  a  winter  in  Italy. 

Brown,  Edna  Adelaide.  j  B7852S 

Spanish  chest.    Lothrop. 

Caves  and  ruined  castles,  secret  passages  and  a  mysterious  Spanish  chest  connected 
with  bonnie  Prince  Charlie  add  interest  to  this  story  of  a  winter  spent  by  an  American 
family  in  the  picturesque  island  of  Jersey. 

Brown,  Edna  Adelaide.  j  B7852W 

When  Max  came.     Lothrop. 

Max,  who  has  been  brought  up  in  Europe,  spends  a  summer  in  Maine  with  his 
New  England  cousins.  The  story  tells  of  their  out-of-door  life  and  adventures,  and  of 
a  misunderstanding  and  what  came  of  it. 

Brown,  Ethel  C.  j  B7853t 

The  three  Gays.    Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Three  city  children  spend  a  Christmas  vacation  on  the  old  farm.  They  learn  about 
the  way  their  great-grandparents  lived,  and  go  sleighing,  coasting  and  snow-shoeing. 

Brown,  Frank  Chouteau.  j  744.2  B78 

Letters  &  lettering;  a  treatise  with  200  examples.     1904.     Bates. 

Contents:  Roman  capitals. — Modern  Roman  letters. — Gothic  letters. — Italic  and 
script. — To  the  beginner. 

Brown,  Helen  Dawes.  j  B788I1 

Her  sixteenth  year.    Houghton. 

Sequel  to  "Little  Miss  Phcebe  Gay." 

Brown,  Helen  Dawes.  j  B788I 

Little  Miss  Phcebe  Gay.     Houghton. 

Story  of  daily  adventures  of  a  little  New  England  girl  10  years  old.  Continued  by 
"Her  sixteenth  year." 

Brown,  Helen  Dawes.  j  B788T. 

Two  college  girls.     Houghton. 

Story  of  college  life  with  its  class-room  dilemmas,  spreads  and  holiday  merry- 
makings. 

Brown,  John,  M.  D.  j  B7gir 

Rab  and  his  friends.     Page. 

A  Scotch  story  of  a  rare  woman  and  a  noble  dog. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  59 

Brown,  Kate  Louise.  j  581  B79 

The  plant  baby  and  its  friends;  a  nature  reader  for  primary  grades. 
1898.    Silver. 

Follows  the  plant  from  seed  to  full  flower.     Some  simple  nature  poems  arc  included. 

Browne,  Belmore.  j  B798W 

The  white  blanket;  the  story  of  an  Alaskan  winter.     Putnam. 
Adventures  of  two  boys  while  prospecting  for  gold  in  the  Alaskan  wilderness. 

Browne,  Edith  A.  j  914.6  B79 

Spain,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Trevor  Haddon  and  E.  T.  A. 
Wigram.     1910.     Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

About  the  home  life,  manners  and  customs  of  the  Spanish  people,  with  descriptions 
of  some  of  the  interesting  places.  Contains  a  sketch  map  of  Spain  and  full-page  colored 
pictures  of  the  Alhambra,  the  mosque  at  Cordova,  a  Spanish  patio  and  other  scenes. 

Browne,  Edith  A.  j  633  B79 

Tea.     1912.     Black.     (Peeps  at  industries.) 

Author  takes  her  readers  on  a  tour  to  the  different  tea-producing  countries — -Cey- 
lon, India,  China,  Japan,  Java — where  they  learn  all  about  the  planting,  picking,  firing 
and  shipping  of  tea.     Photographic  illustrations. 

Browne,  Frances.  j  B8ii2g2 

Granny's  wonderful  chair  and  its  tales  of  fairy  times.     Dent. 

"  'Chair  of  my  grandmother,  take  me  to  the  highest  banquet  hall,'  "  said  Snow- 
flower.  "Instantly  the  chair  marched  in  a  grave  and  courtly  fashion  out  of  the  kitchen, 
up  the  grand  staircase,  and  into  the  highest  hall,"  where  it  told  the  following  stories  to 
the  king  and  queen,  the  fair  lords  and  ladies,  the  many  fairies  and  notable  people  from 
other  lands  :  The  Christmas  cuckoo. — The  lords  of  the  white  and  grey  castles. — The 
greedy  shepherd. — The  story  of  Fairyfoot. — The  story  of  Childe  Charity. — Sour  and 
Civil. — The  story  of  Merrymind. 

The  same;  introduced  and  illustrated  by  Katharine  Pyle. 
Dutton j   B8ii2g3 

Browne,  Phillis,  pseud.    See  Hamer,  Mrs  Sarah  Sharp. 

Browning,  Robert.  j  821  B8igb 

The  boys'  Browning;  poems  of  action  and  incident  compiled  from 
the  works  of  Browning.     1899.     Page. 

Contents:  The  pied  piper  of  Hamelin. — Herve  Riel. — Cavalier  tunes. — "How  they 
brought  the  good  news  from  Ghent  to  Aix." — Through  the  Metidja  to  Abd-el-Kadr. — 
Incident  of  the  French  camp. — Clive. — Muleykeh. — Tray. — A  tale. — Gold  hair. — Donald. 
— The  glove. 

Browning,  Robert.  qj  821  B8igpi2 

Pied  piper  of  Hamelin;  a  child's  story,  illustrated  by  Hope  Dunlap. 
1910.     Rand. 

The  same;  illustrated  by  Kate  Greenaway.     [1910.] 

Warne qj  821  B8igpi3 

Bryant,  William  Cullen.  j  811  684a 

Poetical  works,  with  chronologies  of  Bryant's  life  and  poems  and  a 
bibliography  of  his  writings  by  H.  C.  Sturgis  and  a  memoir  of  his  life 
by  R.  H.  Stoddard.     Roslyn  ed.     1915.     Appleton. 

The  same.     Household  ed.     1907.     Appleton j  811  B84 

Bryce,  Catherine  Turner.  j  372.4  B84C 

Child-lore  dramatic  reader,  introduction  by  F.  E.  Spaulding.  1913. 
Scribner. 

Fairy  tales,  fables  and  rhymes  in  dialogue  form.      Brief  suggestions  for  acting, 


60  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Bryce,  Catherine  Turner.  j  372.4  B84f 

Fables  from  afar.     1910.    Newson.     (Aldine  supplementary  readers.) 

Fables  and  animal  stories  for  little  children. 

Bryce,  Catherine  Turner,  &  Spaulding,  F.  E.  j  372.4  B84 

Primer,  with  illustrations  by  M.  E.  Webb.     1907.    Newson.     (Aldine 
readers.) 
Bryce,  Catherine  Turner.  j  372.4  B84S 

Short  stories  for  little  folks.     1910.     Newson.     (Aldine  supplemen- 
tary readers.) 
Bryce,  Catherine  Turner.  j  372.4  B84St 

Story-land  dramatic  reader.     1916.     Scribner. 

Little  plays,  for  reading  or  acting,  adapted  from  folk-tales,  legends  and  other 
sources.     Suitable  for  third  grade. 

Bryce,  Catherine  Turner.  j  372.4  B84t 

That's  why  stories.    1910.   Newson.    (Aldine  supplementary  readers.) 

Little  stories  for  little  children  under  the  headings,  The  book  of  beginnings. — Elf 
and  flower  folk. — Rewards  and  judgments. — Lucky  escapes. — Some  wishes. 

Bryson,  Mrs  Mary  Isabella. 

Child  life  in  Chinese  homes.    See  her  Home-life  in  China. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Bryson,  Mrs  Mary  Isabella.  j  915. 1  B84 

Home-life  in  China.     [1886.]     Amer.  Tract  Soc. 

Written  after  nine  years'  residence  in  China  as  a  missionary.  Second  part  contains 
true  stories  of  Chinese  boys  and  girls  known  to  the  author. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Child  life  in  Chinese  homes." 

Bubier,  Edward  Trevert.     See  Trevert,  Edward,  pseud. 

Buchan,  John.  j  92  Ri68b 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh.     1911.     Holt. 

Eleven  stories  about  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  the  brilliant  courtier  and  gallant  soldier 
and  sailor.  The  stories  are  told  by  those  who  served  with  Sir  Walter  in  the  Irish 
wars  or  on  the  Spanish  Main — by  Gervase  Luttrell,  soldier  of  fortune;  Nathan  Stubbs, 
captain  of  the  ship  Good  Venture;  Sir  Adam  Bontier,  a  gentleman  adventurer  with 
the  fleet  of  Essex;  and  other  friends  or  followers.  Though  some  of  the  characters  have 
been  invented,  "all  that  they  tell  us  really  happened,  and  most  of  the  little  incidents  and 
speeches  will  be  found  recorded  in  old  books." 

Buckley,  Arabella  Burton,  afterzvard  Mrs  Fisher.  j  57°4  B8se 

Eyes  and  no  eyes.     1905.     Cassell. 

Contents:  Wild  life  in  woods  and  fields. — By  pond  and  river. — Plant  life  in  field 
and  garden. — Birds  of  the  air. — Trees  and  shrubs. — Insect  life. 

Language  is  simple  and  there  are  many  pictures,  some  of  them  colored. 

Buckley,  Arabella  Burton,  afterward  Mrs  Fisher.  j  57°4  B85 

Fairy-land  of  science.     1899.     Appleton. 

Contents:  The  Fairy-land  of  science;  how  to  enter  it,  how  to  use  it  and  how  to 
enjoy  it. — Sunbeams  and  the  work  they  do. — The  aerial  ocean  in  which  we  live. — A  drop 
of  water  on  its  travels. — The  two  great  sculptors,  water  and  ice. — The  voices  of  nature 
and  how  we  hear  them. — The  life  of  a  primrose. — The  history  of  a  piece  of  coal. — 
Bees  in  the  hive. — Bees  and  flowers. 

Buckley,  Arabella  Burton,  afterward  Mrs  Fisher.  j  592  B85 

Life  and  her  children;  glimpses  of  animal  life,  from  the  amoeba  to 
the  insects.     1894.     Appleton. 

About  invertebrates. 

Partial  contents:  How  sponges  live. — How  star-fish  walk  and  sea-urchins  grow. — 
The   mantle-covered   animals,    and   how   they   live    with    heads    and    without   them. — The 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  61 

Buckley,  Arabella  Burton,  afterward  Mrs  Fisher — continued,  j  592  B85 
mailed  warriors  of  the  sea,  with  ringed  bodies  and  jointed  feet. — Insect  suckers  and 
biters  which  change  their  coats  but  not  their  bodies. — Insect  sippers  and  gnawers  which 
remodel  their  bodies  within  their  coats. 

Buckley,  Arabella  Burton,  afterward  Mrs  Fisher.  j  509  B85 

Short  history  of  natural  science,  and  of  the  progress  of  discovery 
from  the  time  of  the  Greeks  to  the  present  day.     1892.     Appleton. 

Contents:  Science  of  the  Greeks. — Science  of  the  middle  ages. — Rise  and  progress 
of  modern  science. 

Gives  accounts  of  Euclid,  Archimedes,  Geber,  Roger  Bacon,  Copernicus,  Galileo, 
Newton,  Linnaeus,  Franklin,  Oersted  and  many  other  famous  scientists  and  their  dis- 
coveries. 

Buckley,  Arabella  Burton,  afterward  Mrs  Fisher.  j  590.4  B85 

Wild  life  in  woods  and  fields.     1901.     Cassell. 

Contents:  Spiders  on  the  common. — The  woodpecker's  nest. — Spring  flowers. — A 
family  of  squirrels. — The  skylark  and  her  enemy. — Nuts  and  nut-eaters. — The  mouse 
and  the  shrew. —  The  ant-hill. —  The  humble  bee's  nest. —  Peter's  cat. —  The  greedy 
stranger. — The  mole  and  his  home. 

Buckley,  Arabella  Burton,  afterward  Mrs  Fisher.  j  596  B85 

Winners  in  life's  race;  or,  The  great  backboned  famil3r.  1894.  Ap- 
pleton. 

Describes  graphically  the  early  history  of  the  backboned  animals,  including  fishes  of 
ancient  times,  land  animals,  etc.  Sequel  to  "Life  and  her  children,"  which  treats  of 
invertebrates. 

Buffington,  Bertha  Elinor,  and  others.  j  372.4  B86 

Circus  reader,  for  first  and  second  year  pupils.     1909.     Sanborn. 
Pictures  of  giraffes,  elephants,  lions,  camels,  bears  and  other  animals. 

Bulfinch,  Thomas.  j  398.25  B87 

Age  of  chivalry;  or,  Legends  of  King  Arthur;  ed.  by  E.  E.  Hale. 
1884.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  King  Arthur  and  his  knights. — The  Mabinogeon.— The  knights  of  Eng- 
lish history. 

The  same;  ed.  by  J.  L.  Scott.     1900.     McKay j  398.25  B87a 

Contents:  King  Arthur  and  his  knights. — The  Mabinogeon. — Legendary  poets  and 
poetry. 

Contains  many  quotations  from  modern  poets.  The  third  part  consists  chiefly  of 
the  writings  of  Ossian. 

Bulfinch,  Thomas.  j  292  B87 

Age  of  fable;  ed.  by  E.  E.  Hale.     1894.     Lothrop. 

Greek,  Roman,  Eastern  and  Scandinavian  myths.  The  interest  in  them  is  increased 
by  connecting  them  with  literature,  sculpture  and  painting. 

The  same;  ed.  by  J.  L.  Scott.     1898.     McKay j  292  B87a 

Bulfinch,  Thomas.  j  398.26  B87 

Charlemagne;  or,  Romance  of  the  middle  ages.     1896.     Lothrop. 

Legends  of  Charlemagne  gathered  largely  from  Pulci,  Boiardo  and  Ariosto.  They 
are  interesting  as  stories,  and  valuable  as  an  introduction  to  a  study  of  the  Italian  poets. 

Bulfinch,  Thomas.  j  292  B87g 

Golden  age  of  myth  &  legend;  being  a  rev.  &  enlarged  edition  of 
"The  age  of  fable;"  ed.  by  G.  H.  Godfrey.     [  1915.]     Stokes. 

Contains  36   full-page  illustrations,   reproductions  of  paintings  and   Statues. 

Bull,  Jacob  B.  j  92  Ni26bu 

Fridtjof  Nansen;  a  book  for  the  young.     1899.     Heath. 
Short  account  of  the  Norwegian  explorer's  boyhood,  of  his  youthful  adventures  and 

his  polar  expeditions. 


62  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Bullen,  Frank  Thomas.  j  910.4  B87 

Cruise  of  the  Cachalot  round  the  world  after  sperm  whales.  1906. 
Appleton. 

"I've  never  read  anything  that  equals  it  in  its  deep-sea  wonder  and  mystery;  nor  do 
I  think  that  any  book  before  has  so  completely  covered  the  whole  business  of  whale- 
fishing,  and  at  the  same  time  given  such  real  and  new  sea  pictures."     Rudyard  Kipling. 

Bullivant,  Cecil  Henry.  j  790  B87 

Every  boy's  book  of  hobbies.     1912.     Dodge. 

Many  suggestions  for  occupation  and  amusement,  including  wood  and  metal  work, 
collecting,  sports  and  the  care  of  pets. 

Bulwer-Lytton,  Edward  George  Earle  Lytton,  baron.     See  Lytton,  Ed- 
ward George  Earle  Lytton  Bulwer-   baron. 

Bunner,  Henry  Cuyler.  j  782.8  B88 

Seven  old  ladies  of  Lavender  town;  an  operetta  in  two  acts,  music 
by  Oscar  Weil.     [1910.]     Harper. 

Appeared  in  "Harper's  young  people,"  v. 8,  Dec.  7,   1886. 

Bunyan,  John.  j  B885P4 

Pilgrim's  progress  [illustrated  by  Byam  Shaw].     Scribner. 

The  wonderful  adventures  of  Christian,  the  pilgrim,  on  the  King's  highway;  how 
he  passed  the  lions  and  fought  a  dragon;  escaped  from  the  prison  of  Giant  Despair; 
visited  the  Palace  Beautiful  and  the  shepherds  of  the  Delectable  mountain,  and,  crossing 
the  dark  river,  entered  in  triumph  the  Celestial  city.  The  second  part  tells  of  the  setting 
out  of  Christian's  wife  and  children,  of  their  dangerous  journey  and  safe  arrival  at  the 
desired  country. 

The  same;  illustrated  in  colour  by  G.  D.  Hammond.  Black.  .  j  B885P7 
The  same  [illustrated  by  William  Strang].  Routledge .  .  .  .  j  B88sp8 
The  same.     Century qj  B885P3 

A  beautiful  edition  with  many  illustrations  by  the  brothers  Rhead,  but  contains  the 
first  part  only. 

Burchenal,  Elizabeth,  comp.  qj  793.3  B89 

Folk-dances  and  singing  games;  folk-dances  of  Norway,  Sweden, 
Denmark,  Russia,  Bohemia,  Hungary,  Italy,  England,  Scotland  and 
Ireland,  with  the  music,  full  directions  for  performance  and  numerous 
illustrations.     2v.     1909-13.     Schirmer. 

v.l.     Folk  dances  and  singing  games. 
v.2.     Dances  of  the  people. 

Burgess,  Gelett.  qj  817  B89 

Goops,  and  how  to  be  them.     1900.     Stokes. 

A  manual  of  manners  for  polite  infants,  inculcating  many  juvenile  virtues  both  by 
precept  and  example,   with  ninety  drawings. 

Burgess,  Gelett.  j  B8972I 

Lively  city  o'  Ligg;  a  cycle  of  modern  fairy  tales  for  city  children. 
Stokes. 

A  city  of  animated  and  rebellious  furniture,  of  runaway  chairs,  of  houses  that 
walked  and  of  lamp  posts  that  became  exceedingly  ill. 

Burgess,  Gelett.  qj  817  B8gm 

More  goops,  and  how  not  to  be  them.     1903.     Stokes. 

A  manual  of  manners   for   impolite   infants,   depicting  the   characteristics   of   many 
naughty  and  thoughtless  children,  with  instructive  illustrations. 
"For  if  you  are  as  Goop  derided, 
You   may  perhaps  reform,  as  I  did!" 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  63 

Burgess,  Thornton  Waldo.  j  B8g7b 

Boy  scouts  on  Lost  trail.    Penn  Pub.  Co. 

A  patrol  of  boy  scouts  starts  out  on  an  expedition  to  re-locate  an  old  Indian  trail. 
What  happened  from  day  to  day  is  related  in  the  story. 

Burgess,  Thornton  Waldo.  j   B8971T10 

Mother  West  Wind's  animal  friends.     Little. 

Animal  stories.  Among  them,  How  Prickly  Porky  got  his  quills. — Peter  Rabbit's 
egg  rolling. — How  Johnny  Chuck  ran  away. — Billy  Mink  goes  dinnerless. — Grandfather 
Frog's  journey. — Why  Blacky  the  crow  wears  mourning. 

Burgess,  Thornton  Waldo.  j  B897m 

Mother  West  Wind's  neighbors.     Little. 

More  stories  of  Mother  West  Wind's  animal  friends.  Tells  why  ol'  Mistah  Buzzard 
has  a  bald  head,  why  Sammy  Jay  cries  "thief,"  why  Peter  Rabbit  wears  a  white  patch 
and  why  Mistah  Mocker  is  the  best  loved  of  all  the  birds. 

Burgess,  Thornton  Waldo.  j  B8970 

Old  Mother  West  Wind.     Little. 

The  Merry  Little  Breezes,  released  from  Old  Mother  West  Wind's  bag,  play  in  the 
green  meadows  and  have  many  good  times  with  their  animal  friends.  There  are  stories 
of  Johnny  Chuck,  Bobby  Coon  and  Reddy  Fox,  of  Billy  Mink's  swimming  party,  Sammy 
Jay's  mischief  and  little  Joe  Otter's  slippery  slide.  There  is  also  the  sad  tale  of  Tommy 
Trout  who  didn't  mind. 

Burks,  Frances  Williston.  j  919.14  B91 

Barbara's   Philippine  journey,  with  an   introduction  by   F.  M.   Mc- 

Murry.     1914.     World  Book  Co. 

Barbara  tells  of  her  trip  to  the  Philippine  islands,  where  she  visits  in  Manila,  camps 

in  the  Benguet  mountains,  climbs  to  the  mouth  of  a  volcano  and  takes  part  in  a  fiesta. 
Suitable  for  third  or  fourth  grades. 

Burnett,  Mrs  Frances   (Hodgson).  j  Bg34ed 

Editha's  burglar.     Page. 
Adventures  of  a  little  girl  with  a  burglar. 

Burnett,  Mrs  Frances  (Hodgson).  j  B934I 

Little  Lord  Fauntleroy.     Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 13,  Nov.   1885-Oct.   1886. 

Story  of  a  little  American  boy  who  becomes  an  English  lord  and  who  by  his  affec- 
tionate nature  and  fearless,  quaint  little  way  of  making  friends  with  people,  succeeds  in 
winning  the  love  of  his  grandfather,  the  grim  old  Earl  of  Dorincourt. 

Burnett,  Mrs  Frances  (Hodgson).  j  Bg34r 

Racketty-Packetty  house;  as  told  by  Queen  Crosspatch.     Century. 

Story  of  a  doll  family. 

Burnett,  Mrs  Frances  (Hodgson).  j  B934S2 

Sara  Crewe;  or,  What  happened  at  Miss  Minchin's,  [with]  Little 
Saint  Elizabeth,  and  other  stories.     Scribner. 

Other  stories:  The  story  of  Prince  Fairy-foot. — The  proud  little  grain  of  wheat. — 
Behind  the  white  brick. 

"Sara  Crewe"  appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 15,  Dec.   1887-Feb.   1888. 

Burns,  Elmer  Ellsworth.  j  609  B93 

Story  of  great  inventions.     1910.     Harper. 

"Brief  notes  on  important  inventions,"  p. 237-246. 

From    Archimedes,    the    first    great    inventor,    to    Marconi    and    wireless    telegraphy. 
Gives  an  account  of  Galileo's  battle  for  truth,  of  Newton  and  his  discovery  of  gravitation, 
of  Watt  and  the  steam-engine,  Morse  and  the  telegraph,  Bell  and  the  telephone,    i 
and  electric  lighting. 


64  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Burns,  Robert.  j  821  B93 

Selected  poems,  with  biographical  sketch  and  notes  by  N.  H.  Dole. 

1892.     Crowell. 

Partial  contents:     The  cotter's  Saturday  night. — Tamo'  Shanter. — The  brigs  of  Ayr. 

— The    banks    o'    Doon. — Auld    lang    syne. — Bannockburn. — Highland    Mary. — Coming 

through  the  rye. — For  a'  that  and  a'  that. — My  heart's  in  the  Highlands. 

Burrell,  Arthur,  comp.  j  821.08  B94 

Book  of  heroic  verse.     [1916.]     Dent.     (Everyman's  library.) 
Contents:     Patria. — War  and  peace. — The  sea. — Heroes. — Portraits  and   character. 

Burrell,  Caroline  Benedict,  {pseud.  Caroline  French  Benton),     j  641  B94 

A  little  cook  book  for  a  little  girl.     1905.     Page. 

Contents:  The  things  Margaret  made  for  breakfast. — The  things  she  made  for 
luncheon  or  supper. — The  things  she  made  for  dinner. 

Tells  how  a  little  girl  learned  to  cook. 

Burrell,  Caroline  Benedict,  {pseud.  Caroline  French  Benton),     j  640  B94 
Saturday  mornings;  a  little  girl's  experiments  and  discoveries;  or, 

How  Margaret  learned  to  keep  house.     1906.     Page. 

The  greater  part  of  this  book  appeared  in  "Good  housekeeping,"  v.39-41,  Dec.  1904- 

Sept.  1905. 

What  Christmas  brought  a  little  girl  and  how  she  learned  housekeeping  on  Saturday 

mornings.      Some  of  the  chapters  are :     The  kitchen   fire. — The   dining-room  table. — 

Washing  dishes. — Care  of  the  bedrooms. — Sweeping  and  dusting. — -Laundry  work. — The 

linen  closet. — Marketing  and  keeping  accounts.  % 

Burrill,  Edgar  White.  j  812  B94 

Master  Skylark;  or,  Will  Shakespeare's  ward;  a  dramatization  from 
the  story  of  the  same  name  by  John  Bennett,  in  five  acts.  1916.  Cen- 
tury. 

Burroughs,  John.  j  591-5  Bg4b 

Birds  and  bees,  Sharp  eyes,  and  other  papers;  ed.  by  M.  E.  Burt. 
1887.     Houghton. 

Other   papers:      The    apple. —  A   taste    of    Maine    birch. —  Winter    neighbors. —  The 
weather-wise  muskrat. — Cheating  the  squirrels. — Fox  and  hound. — The  woodchuck. 
"Biographical  sketch,"  p. 3-6. 

Burroughs,  John.  j  57°-4  B94 

Field  and  study.     1919.     Houghton. 

A  book  of  nature  lore.  Such  chapter  headings  as  The  spring  bird  procession. — 
The  songs  of  birds. — Orchard  secrets. — The  insect  mind. — A  clever  beastie. — Phases 
of  animal  life. 

Burroughs,  John.  j  591-5  B94I 

Little  nature  studies  for  little  people;  ed.  by  M.  E.  Burt.  2v.  1897- 
98.     Ginn. 

v.i.     A  primer  and  first  reader. 

v.2.     A  second  and  third  reader. 

Stories  of  animals  and  plants. 

Burroughs,  John.  j  599-3  B94 

Squirrels  and  other  fur-bearers.     1900.     Houghton. 

Contents:  Squirrels. — The  chipmunk. — The  woodchuck. — The  rabbit  and  the  hare. 
— The  musk-rat.— The  skunk. — The  fox.— The  weasel.— The  mink.— The  raccoon. — The 
porcupine. — The  opossum. — Wild  mice. — Glimpses  of  wild  life. — A  life  of  fear. 

Fifteen  illustrations  in  color  after  Audubon. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  65 

Burt,  Mary  Elizabeth,  &  Ragozin,  Mine  Z.  A.  ed.  j  292  B94 

Herakles,  the  hero  of  Thebes;  and  other  heroes  of  the  myth.    1900. 

Scribner. 

Relates  the  12  labors  of  Hercules;  also  the  exploits  of  Theseus,  the  hero  of  Athens, 

of  Jason  and  the  Argonauts  and  of  Perseus  who  slew  the  gorgon  Medusa  and  rescued 

Andromeda  from  the  dragon.     Adapted  from  the  second  book  of  the  primary  schools  of 

Athens,  Greece,  and  intended  for  use  as  a  school  reader. 

Burt,  Mary  Elizabeth,  &  Ragozin,  Mme  Z.  A.  j  883  H75ob 

Odysseus,  the  hero  of  Ithaca.     1898.     Scribner. 

Adapted  from  the  third  book  of  the  primary  schools  of  Athens,  Greece,  and  in- 
tended for  use  as  a  school  reader.  Pt.i  gives  a  short  account  of  the  war  against  Troy 
and  the  destruction  of  the  city.  Pt.2  describes  the  wanderings  of  Ulysses  and  pt.3  the 
journey  of  Telemachus  and  the  triumph  of  Ulysses. 

Burt,  Mary  Elizabeth,  ed.  j  821.08  B949 

Poems  that  every  child  should  know;  a  selection  of  the  best  poems 
of  all  times  for  young  people.  1912.  Grosset.  ("Every  child  should 
know"  books.) 

Burton,  Alma  Holman.  j  923  B95 

Four  American  patriots:  Patrick  Henry,  Andrew  Jackson,  Alex- 
ander Hamilton,  Ulysses  S.  Grant;  a  book  for  young  Americans.  1898. 
Amer.  Book  Co. 

Burton,  Alma  Holman.  j  92  Li44bu 

Lafayette,  the  friend  of  American  liberty,  with  an  introduction  by 
James  Baldwin.     1898.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Short  but  interesting  account  of  the  young  French  marquis  who  aided  the  American 
colonies  in  their  struggle  for  freedom. 

Burton,  Alma  Holman.  j  973  B95 

Story  of  our  country;  a  primary  history  of  the  United  States.  1896. 
Amer.  Book  Co. 

Burton,  Alma  Holman.  j  974  B95 

Story  of  the  Indians  of  New  England.     1900.     Silver. 

Gives  an  excellent  picture  of  the  New  England  Indian  at  home,  in  the  council  and 
in  the  forest.  Tells  also  of  the  coming  of  the  Pilgrims  and  their  relations  with  the  In- 
dians till  the  red  men  finally  sought  refuge  on  the  western  frontier. 

Burton,  Charles  Pierce.  j  Bgsibo 

Bob's  cave  boys;  sequel  to  "Boys  of  Bob's  hill."     Holt. 

The  secretary  of  "The  Boy  Bandits"  tells  how  they  saved  the  cave  and  initiated  a 
new  member;  of  their  invisible  messages,  the  great  snow  battle,  the  cruise  of  the  airship 
and  other  jolly  times  of  the  "band." 

Burton,  Charles  Pierce.  j  Bgsibh 

Bob's  hill  braves.    Holt. 

Sequel  to  "Bob's  cave  boys."  The  "band"  spend  a  summer  vacation  in  Illinois 
where  they  play  at  being  Indians  and  hear  tales  of  real  Indians  and  explorers. 

Burton,  Charles  Pierce.  j  Bgsiboy 

Boy  scouts  of  Bob's  hill.    Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout 

edition.) 

Sequel  to  "Bob's  hill  braves." 

The   Bob's  hill   "band"   reorganize  as  the   Raven   patrol   of   the   boy   scouts    and   the 

secretary   relates  their  efforts  at  living  up  to  the  scout  law  and  their  adventures  while 

on  a  camping  expedition. 


66  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Burton,  Charles  Pierce.  j  B951D 

Boys  of  Bob's  hill.    Holt. 

Adventures  of  Tom  Chapin  and  the  "band,"  as  told  by  the  "secretary." 
Burton,  Charles  Pierce.  j  B951C 

Camp  Bob's  hill.     Holt. 

The  "boy  scouts  of  Bob's  hill"  spend  a  summer  vacation  camping  in  Indiana.  Fifth 
in  the  series. 

Bush,  Bertha  E.  j  B964P 

A  prairie  Rose.     Little. 

Rose  is  a  pioneer  girl  who  goes  with  her  older  brother,  Rob,  in  a  prairie  schooner 
to  Iowa  where  they  make  a  new  home  for  themselves.  She  has  all  sorts  of  amusing 
experiences  in  pioneer  housekeeping  and  proves  her  pluck  and  resourcefulness  in  times 
of  danger. 

Butler,  Edward  Albert.  j  595-7  B97P 

Pond  life;  insects.     1905.     Sonnenschein.     (Young  collector  series.) 
Book  deals  with  the  subject  under  the  following  divisions,  The  surface. — The  mid- 
dle depths. — The  bottom. — Above  the  surface. — The  margins.— On  the  water  plants. 

Butterworth,  Hezekiah.  j  927-8  B98 

Great  composers.     1894.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  Jubal  and  the  Hebrew  oratorios. — Terpander  and  the  lyre  of  Greece. — 
St.  Ambrose  and  the  music  of  the  early  church. — Handel,  the  father  of  the  oratorio. — 
Haydn  and  Mozart. — Beethoven  and  the  symphony.— Mendelssohn. — Chopin  and  piano 
music. — Liszt. — Rossini. — Hymn  writers  of  the  past. — Hymn  writers  of  to-day. — Ameri- 
can national  songs. — Wagner  and  his  music  in  America. — Other  great  composers. 

Butterworth,  Hezekiah.  j  Bg84i 

In  the  boyhood  of  Lincoln.    Appleton. 

Tells  of  the  boy  life  of  the  "Martyr  President"  among  the  settlers  and  Indians  of 
Illinois.     Gives  many  anecdotes  and  traditions. 

Butterworth,  Hezekiah.  j  937  B98 

Little  Arthur's  history  of  Rome,  from  the  golden  age  to  Constan- 

tine.     1892.     Crowell. 

"I  have  quoted  freely  the  most  picturesque  stories  of  Virgil,  Livy,  Suetonius,  and 
have  sought  to  illustrate  notable  events  by  the  vivid  words  of  the  Roman  orators." 
Preface. 

Butterworth,  Hezekiah.  j  910  B98 

Story  of  Magellan  and  the  discovery  of  the  Philippines.  1899.  Ap- 
pleton. 

"His  voyages,  as  pictured  by  his  companion  Pigafetta,  the  historian,  give  us  our  first 
view  of  the  interesting  native  inhabitants  of  the  South  Temperate  Zone  and  of  the 
Pacific  archipelagoes,  and  his  adventures  with  the  giants  of  Patagonia  and  with  the 
natives  of  the  Ladrone  Islands,  read  almost  like  stories  of  Sinbad  the  Sailor."     Preface. 

Butterworth,  Hezekiah.  j  Bg84tr 

Treasure  ship;  a  tale  of  Sir  William  Phipps,  the  regicides  and  the 

inter-charter  period  in  Massachusetts.     Appleton. 

Butterworth,  Hezekiah.  j  B984W 

Wampum  belt;  a  tale  of  Penn's  treaty  with  the  Indians.    Appleton. 

Butterworth,  Horace.  j  796-4  B98I1 

Horizontal  bar.     1902.     Privately  printed. 

Directions  for  exercises  on  the  single  horizontal  bar,  with  illustrations. 

Butterworth,  Horace.  j  796-4  B98 

How  to;  a  book  of  tumbling,  tricks,  pyramids  and  games.  1899. 
Privately  printed. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  67 

Buxton,  Ethel  M.  Wilmot-      See  Wilmot-Buxton,  Ethel  M. 

By  land  and  sea.     1902.    Mason.  j  910  B99 

Contents:  Glimpses  of  Europe. — The  American  tropics. — Sketches  of  the  Orient. — 
Old  ocean. 

Articles  originally  published  in   the  "Youth's  companion." 

Cable,  George  Washington.  j  C113C 

Cable  story  book;  selections  for  school  reading;  ed.  by  M.  E.  Burt 
and  L.  L.  Cable.     Scribner. 

Contents:  The  children's  New  Orleans. — Story  of  Bras-coupe. — Jean-ah  Poquelin. 
— New  Orleans  before  the  capture. — Gregory's  island. — Story  of  the  author's  life. 

Cabot,  Mrs  Ella  (Lyman),  and  others.  j  172  Cn 

Course  in  citizenship,  with  an  introduction  by  W.  H.  Taft.  1914. 
Houghton. 

Contents:  To  the  teacher,  by  E.  L.  Cabot. — Grade  I.  Home,  by  Mary  McSkimmon. 
— Grade  II.  School  and  playground,  by  Mary  McSkimmon. — Grade  III.  The  neighbor- 
hood, by  E.  L.  Cabot.— Grade  IV.  Town  and  city,  by  Mabel  Hill.— Grade  V.  The  na- 
tion, by  E.  L.  Cabot. — Grade  VI.  American  ideals,  by  F.  E.  Coe. — Grade  VII.  The 
United  States  and  the  world,  by  F.  F.  Andrews.— Grade  VIII.  The  world  family,  by 
F.  F.  Andrews. 

Practical  working  outline.  Contains  illustrative  stories  and  poems,  suggestions  for 
talks,  and  reference  lists  for  teachers'  and  pupils'  reading.  Authorized  by  the  Massachu- 
setts branch  of  the  American  School  Peace  League. 

Caldecott,  Randolph.  j  821  C12C 

Caldecott's  collection  of  pictures  &  songs.     2v.     Warne. 

v.i.  The  diverting  history  of  John  Gilpin. — The  house  that  Jack  built. — An  elegy 
on  the  death  of  a  mad  dog. — The  babes  in  the  wood. — The  three  jovial  huntsmen. — Sing 
a  song  for  sixpence. — The  queen  of  hearts. — The  farmer's  boy. 

v.2.  The  milkmaid. — Hey  diddle  diddle. — Baby  Bunting. — The  fox  jumps  over  the 
parson's  gate. — A  frog  he  would  a-wooing  go. — Come  lasses  and  lads. — Ride  a  cock- 
horse to  Banbury  Cross. — A  farmer  went  trotting  upon  his  grey  mare. — Mrs  Mary 
Blaize. — The  great  Panjandrum  himself. 

Verses  and  colored  pictures. 

Caldecott,  Randolph.  j  821  Ci2p 

Caldecott's  picture  book.    2v.     Warne. 

v.i.  The  diverting  history  of  John  Gilpin. — The  house  that  Jack  built. — The  babes 
in  the  wood. — An  elegy  on  the  death  of  a  mad  dog. 

v.2.  The  three  jovial  huntsmen. — Sing  a  song  for  sixpence. — The  queen  of  hearts. 
— The  farmer's  boy. 

Caldecott,  Randolph.  j  821  C12I1 

Hey  diddle  diddle  picture  book.     Warne. 

Contents:  Where  are  you  going  my  pretty  maid?— Hey  diddle  diddle. — Baby  Bunt- 
ing.— A  frog  he  would  a-wooing  go. — The  fox  jumps  over  the  parson's  gate. 

Caldecott,  Randolph.  j  821  C12 

Panjandrum  picture  book.    Warne. 

Contents:  Come  lasses  and  lads.  —  Ride  a  cockhorse  to  Banbury  Cross. — A  farmer 
went  trotting  upon  his  grey  mare. — Mrs  Mary  Blaize. — The  great  Panjandrum  himself. 

Cammaerts,  Smile,  &  Cammaerts,  Mme  Tita  (Brand).  j  054b 

A  boy  of  Bruges;  a  story  of  Belgian  child  life,  with  sketches  by 
Albert  Delstanche.     Dutton.     (Little  schoolmate  series.) 

Tells  of  the  friendship  of  two  Belgian  boys  and  of  their  life,  first  in  the  quiet  old 
town  of  Bruges  and  afterward  on  a  farm  in  southern  Belgium,  in  the  years  just  preced- 
ing the  outbreak  of  the  European  war.  At  the  time  of  the  German  invasion  both  fight 
f'  u   t  heir  country. 


68  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Camp  Fire  Girls.  j  369.3  C15 

Book  of  the  Camp  Fire  Girls.     Ed. 6.     1917.     Doran. 

Tells  how  to  organize  local  groups  and  gives  suggestions  for  the  council  fires  or 
monthly  meetings;  also  gives  a  list  of  elective  honors  and  pictures  of  Camp  Fire  Girls. 

Campbell,  Mrs  Helen.  j  790  C15 

American  girl's  home  book  of  work  and  play.     1896.    Putnam. 

"Authorities  consulted,"  p.425-427. 

Partial  contents:  Rainy-day  amusements  and  home-made  toys  for  younger  children. 
— A  children's  party  and  the  games  they  played. — Fifty  forfeits. — Some  games  they 
might  have  played. — Charades  and  proverbs  in  action. — Halloween  and  other  amuse- 
ments.— Fifty  Christmas-gifts  for  small  fingers. — Sewing  and  doll's  dress-making. — What 
can  be  done  with  tissue-paper. — Parlor-gardening. 

Campbell,  Loomis  Joseph,  comp.  j  821.08  C15 

Young  folks'  book  of  poetry;  a  collection  of  the  best  short  and  easy 

poems  for  reading  and  recitation.     1893.     Lothrop. 

First  part  contains  simple  poems  for  the  younger  children;  the  poems  in  the  second 

and  third  parts  are  intended  for  children  eight  to  14  years  of  age. 

Canavan,  Michael  Joseph.  j  Ci67b 

Ben  Comee.    Macmillan. 
Tale  of  the  French  and  Indian  war  and  of  the  exploits  of  Rogers'  rangers. 

Candeze,  Ernest  Charles  Auguste.  j  595.7  C17 

Adventures  of  Grillo;  or,  The  cricket  who  would  be  king;  tr.  and  ed. 

by  M.  L.  Baum;  illustrations  after  Renard  by  H.  N.  Baum.     1912.    Ginn. 

Grillo,  who  tells  his  own  story,  meets  a  glow-worm,  an  ant  and  other  insects  in  his 
travels  and  has  many  strange  adventures.  Author  was  a  Belgian  entomologist  and  writer 
on  insect  life.  This  version  of  the  story  is  from  an  Italian  translation  "which  seemed 
especially  amusing  because  of  the  pompous  dignity  of  the  language  used  by  the  hero." 
Preface. 

Humorous  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Canfield,  Henry  Spofford.  j  Ci7ib 

Boys  of  the  Rincon  ranch.     Century.     (St.  Nicholas  books.) 

Two  New  York  city  boys  spend  a  few  months  with  relatives  on  a  Texas  ranch. 
They  have  a  breezy  out-of-door  life,  seeing  a  cattle  round-up,  chasing  mustangs,  shearing 
sheep  and  hunting  deer  and  armadillos. 

Canton,  William.  j  398.2  C17C 

Child's  book  of  saints.     [1907.]     Dent. 

Contents:  In  the  forest  of  stone. — The  song  of  the  minster. — The  pilgrim  of  a 
night. — The  ancient  gods  pursuing. — The  dream  of  the  white  lark. — The  hermit  of  the 
pillar. — Kenach's  little  woman. — Golden  apples  and  roses  red. — The  seven  years  of 
seeking. — The  guardians  of  the  door. — On  the  shores  of  longing. — The  children  of 
Spinalunga. — The  sin  of  the  prince  bishop. — The  little  bedesman  of  Christ. — The  burn- 
ing of  Abbot  Spiridion. — The  countess  Itha. — The  story  of  the  lost  brother. — The  king 
Orgulous. — The  journey  of  Rheinfrid. — Lighting  the  lamps. 

Stories  of  "saints  and  hermits,  of  old  abbeys  and  minsters,  of  visions  and  miracles 
and  the  ministry  of  Angels,"  as  told  to  little  "W.  V." 

Same  as  his  "W.  V.'s  golden  legend." 

Canton,  William.  j  398.2  C17 

Child's  book  of  warriors;  illustrated  by  Herbert  Cole.  [1912?] 
Dent. 

Contents:  The  rock  of  Narsinga. — Bait  the  Attacot. — How  they  saved  Nisibis. — 
Herve  and  Christina. — Sword  and  cross. — The  soul  of  Justinian. — The  guardians  of 
Rome. — The  two  Charlemagnes. — God's  gleeman. — In  the  days  of  Athelney. — Children 
of  kings. — Olaf  the  Viking. — Olaf  in  England. — At  strife  with  the  gods. — The  last  sea- 
fight. — The  Jorsala   pilgrims. — "I   saw   three   ships   a-sailing." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  69 

Canton,  William,  cd.  j  398  C17 

Reign  of  King  Herla.     Dent.     (True  annals  of  fairy-land.) 

There  are  such  stories  as  Little  Snow-white. — Briar  Rose. — The  doom  of  the  chil- 
dren of  Lir. — The  Argonauts. — King  Lear. 
Illustrated  by  Charles  Robinson. 

Canton,  William.  j  92  E4852C 

Story  of  Saint  Elizabeth  of  Hungary,  with  illustrations  by  E.  F. 
Brickdale.     [1913.]     Herbert. 

Story,  as  told  in  mediaeval  chronicles,  of  the  little  princess  who  was  taken  from  her 
royal  home  when  only  four  years  old  and  who  grew  to  girlhood  in  the  gray  hill  castle 
of  the  Wartburg.  Tells  of  her  goodness,  her  sufferings  and  sorrows,  of  the  rose  legend 
of  her  compassion,  and  of  how  after  her  early  death  her  name  was  enrolled  in  the 
calendar  of  saints. 

Canton,  William. 

W.  V.'s  golden  legend.     See  his  Child's  book  of  saints. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Capuana,  Luigi.  qj  853  C18 

Cera  una  volta;  fiabe. 
Fairy  tales. 

Carnegie  Institute,  Pittsburgh — Department  of  fine  arts.  j  707  C21 

Brief  lessons  [on  paintings,  architecture  and  sculpture].  1918. 
Pittsburgh. 

With  this  is  bound  "The  appreciation  of  art  for  young  people,"  by  J.  W.  Beatty. 

The  lessons,  prepared  for  eighth  grade,  explain  some  of  the  essential  qualities  of 
art — color  and  harmony  in  painting,  good  proportion  in  architecture,  proportion  and 
grace  of  line  in  sculpture.     Illustrated  with  reproductions  of  works  of  art. 

Carpenter,  Edmund  James.  j  292  C22 

Hellenic  tales;  a  book  of  golden  hours  with  the  old  story-tellers. 
1906.     Little. 

Partial  contents:  The  battle  of  the  frogs  and  mice. — Cloudcuckooborough. — How 
Pclops  won  his  bride. — Atalanta's  foot-race. — Hero  and  Leander. — Orpheus  and  Euryd- 
ice. — Pandora's  curiosity. — The  hunt  in  Calydon. — Theseus  and  the  ring. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  916  C22 

Africa.     1905.     Amer.  Book  Co.     (Carpenter's  geographical  reader.) 

Good  for  supplementary  reading  in  school.     Maps  and  many  pictures. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  910  C22a 

Around  the  world  with  the  children;  an  introduction  to  geography. 
1917.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

"Suggestions  to  teachers,"  p.131-133. 

The  children  visit  Eskimo  land,  the  African  desert,  Japan,  China,  Switzerland  and 
other  countries  and  learn  about  the  manners  and  customs  of  the  people.  Simply  written 
and  well  illustrated. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  915  C22a 

Asia.     191 1.     Amer.  Book  Co.     (Carpenter's  geographical  reader.) 

Imaginary  trip  through  Japan,  Korea,  eastern  Siberia,  China.  Burma,  India,  Tibet, 
Persia,  Arabia,  Palestine  and  Turkey.  Describes  the  life  of  the  people,  the  government 
of  the  different  countries,  educational  systems  and  political  changes.  Some  of  the  lilies 
are,  Japanese  children  at  school. — The  great  wall  of  China. — Chinese  boats  and  boa) 
people. — Curious  Chinese  customs. — Siam  and  the  Siamese. — The  working  elephants  in 
Burma. — The  wild  animals  of  India. — A  visit  to  the  rajah  of  Jaipur. — In  an  Arabian 
village. 


70  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  910  C22 

Australia,  our  colonies  and  other  islands  of  the  sea.  1904.  Amer. 
Book  Co.     (Carpenter's  geographical  reader.) 

Includes  the  Samoan,  Hawaiian  and  Philippine  islands,  New  Zealand,  Madagascar, 
the  East  and  West  Indies  and  the  islands  of  the  Mediterranean.     Many  pictures. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  914  C22 

Europe.    1902.   Amer.  Book  Co.    (Carpenter's  geographical  reader.) 

"It  is  the  children  themselves.  .  .who  climb  the  Alps  and  stand  on  the  North  Cape 
watching  the  sun  shine  at  midnight.  .  .go  from  city  to  city,  from  farm  to  farm,  and  fac- 
tory to  factory,  seeing  how  the  various  peoples  live  and  what  they  are  doing  in  the 
work  of  the  world.  It  is  they  who  are  admitted  to  the  palaces,  parliaments,  and  public 
offices  where  they  learn  how  each  nation  is  governed  and  something  as  to  its  civilization, 
commerce,  and  trade."     Preface. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  670  C22 

How  the  world  is  clothed.  1908.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Readers  on 
commerce  and  industry.) 

Imaginary  journeys  with  the  author  in  which  one  learns  about  the  production  and 
manufacture  of  cotton,  flax,  wool  and  silk;  the  source  and  preparation  of  leather,  rub- 
ber, furs  and  other  materials. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  630  C22 

How  the  world  is  fed.  1907.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Readers  on  com- 
merce and  industry.) 

"Author  takes  the  children  on  personally  conducted  tours  to  the  great  food  centers 
of  the  world,  to  the  markets  of  exchange,  to  the  factories,  the  farms,  the  forests,  and 
the  seas."     Preface. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  910  C22I1 

How  the  world  is  housed.     191 1.     Amer.  Bpok  Co.     (Readers  on 

commerce  and  industry.) 

"The  children  travel  over  the  globe  to  learn  for  themselves  where  the  materials  in 
their  homes  come  from  and  how  they  are  prepared  for  use... They  travel  among  the 
tent  dwellers  of  the  great  desert  countries,  visit  some  of  the  people  who  still  live  in  huts, 
and  also  those  who  have  homes  of  grass,  cane  and  leaves.  They  peep  into  the  odd  houses 
of  Asia  and  Africa,  and  see  something  of  those  of  Europe  and  the  other  continents." 
Preface. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  917  C22a 

North  America.  1910.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Carpenter's  geographical 
reader.) 

The  children  travel  through  the  United  States,  British  America,  Mexico  and  Central 
America.  They  go  through  cotton  and  tobacco  plantations  of  the  South,  visit  the  orange 
groves  of  Florida,  go  down  into  the  mines  and  see  how  coal,  iron,  copper,  gold  and 
silver  are  taken  out  of  the  earth,  visit  lumber  camps  and  hunt  for  game. 

Carpenter,  Frank  George.  j  918  C22 

South  America.  1899.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Carpenter's  geographical 
reader.) 

A  personally  conducted  tour  through  South  America,  introducing  the  children  to 
city  and  village  life,  the  mining,  sheep-raising  and  coffee-growing  industries,  the  rubber 
camps  of  the  Amazon  and  the  wonders  of  nature  in  the  flowers  and  trees  of  the  tropics. 

Carpenter,  John,  &  Carpenter,  Rue.  qj  784.8  C22 

Improving  songs  for  anxious  children.     1907.     McClurg. 

The  improving  songs  are,  For  careless  children. — Stout. — The  liar. — Reproach. — 
Humility. — A  wicked  child. — Vanity. — Maria,  glutton. — Good  Ellen. — War. — Spring. — 
Lullaby. 

Music  and  colored  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  71 

Carpenter,  Mrs  Kate  E.  (Rushmorc).  j  92  F895C 

Story  of  Frederick  the  Great  for  boys  and  girls.     1908.     Lothrop. 

Account  of  his  unhappy  boyhood  as  crown  prince  of  Prussia  and  of  his  military  suc- 
cesses during  the  Seven  years'  war. 

Carroll,  Lewis,  (pseud,  of  Charles  Lutwidge  Dodgson).  j  C233a 

Alice's  adventures  in  Wonderland,  with  illustrations  by  John  Ten- 
niel.     Macmillan;  Stokes. 

By  following  the  White  Rabbit  down  into  a  rabbit-hole,  Alice  finds  herself  in  Won- 
derland. Her  mistakes  at  first  nearly  cause  her  to  drown  in  her  own  tears,  but  after- 
ward she  meets  the  King  and  Queen  of  Hearts,  a  crusty  old  Duchess,  a  Mad  Hatter,  a 
sleepy  Dormouse,  and  a  March  Hare,  with  whom  she  has  strange  experiences. 

The  same,  and  Through  the  looking-glass.     Macmillan j  C233a2 

Carroll,  Lewis,  (pseud,  of  Charles  Lutwidge  Dodgson).  j  C233t 

Through  the  looking-glass.     Macmillan. 

More  adventures  of  Alice  in  Wonderland. 

Contains  the  famous  poems,  "The  walrus  and  the  carpenter"  and  the  "Jabberwocky." 

Carroll,  Stella  Webster,  afterward  Mrs  Tolman.  j  910  C23a 

Around  the  world;  book  one,  for  first  and  second  grades;  ed.  by 
C.  F.  Carroll.     1910.    Silver. 

Contents :      Eskimos. — Indians. — Arabs. — Dutch. — Chinese. — Japanese. 
Carroll,  Stella  Webster,  afterward  Mrs  Tolman.  j  910  C23b 

Around  the  world;  book  two,  for  second  and  third  grades;  ed.  by 
C.  F.  Carroll.     1909.     Silver. 

Contents:     Russia. — India. — Egypt. — Scotland. 
Carroll,  Stella  Webster,  afterward  Mrs  Tolman,  &  j  910  C23C 

Jerome,  H.  L. 

Around  the  world;  book  three,  for  third  and  fourth  grades;  ed.  by 
C.  F.  Carroll.     1908.     Silver. 

Contents:  Alaska. —  Mexico. —  Norway. —  Sweden. —  Switzerland. —  Cuba. —  Porto 
Rico. — Philippines. — Hawaii. 

Carroll,  Stella  Webster,  afterward  Mrs  Tolman,  &  j  910  C23d 

Hart,  E.  M. 

Around  the  world;  book  four,  for  fourth  and  fifth  grades;  ed.  by 
C.  F.  Carroll.     1910.     Silver. 

About  the  United  States,  Cuba  and  Porto  Rico,  the  Hawaiian  and  Philippine  islands. 

Carroll,  Stella  Webster,  afterward  Mrs  Tolman,  &  j  910  C23e 

Waldo,  L.  M. 
Around  the  world;  book  five,  for  fifth  and  sixth  grades;  ed.  by  C.  F. 
Carroll.     1910.    Silver. 

Contents:     The  British  empire. — Italy. 

Carryl,  Charles  Edward.  j  C2333a 

The  admiral's  caravan.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 19,  Dec.  1891-May  1892. 

Adventures  of  a  little  girl-mortal  among  wooden  images  and  Noah's  ark  animals 
who  come  to  life  in  Wonderland. 

Carryl,  Charles  Edward.  j  C2333d 

Davy  and  the  goblin.     Houghton. 

Appeared  in   "St.  Nicholas,"   v.12,   Dec.    1884-March   1885. 

Davy,  after  reading  "Alice's  adventures  in  Wonderland,"  goes  on  a  "believing 
voyage"  with  a  goblin  and  has  adventures  with  candy  folk,  fairies  and  hobgoblins.  Some 
of  the  chapters  are,  The  giant  Badorful. — The  moving  forest. — In  the  sugar-plum  gar- 
den.— The  talking  waves  and  the  old  sea-dog.  —  Robinson  Crusoe's  island. 


72  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Carter,  Marion  Hamilton,  ed.  j  590.4  C23 

About  animals;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas..    1904.     Century. 

Contents:  A  brief  survey  of  the  animal  kingdom. — -Unnatural  history. — A  valiant 
hunter. — How  some  animals  become  extinct. — Mother  Nature  and  the  jointed  stick. — 
Animal  tracks  in  the  snow. — Mounting  large  animals. — Origin  and  history  of  wild-animal 
training. — Winter  at  the  zoo. — Babies  of  the  zoo. — Men-and-animal  shows  and  how  they 
are  moved  about. — Pets  in  the  navy. — Pets  of  noted  people. — Leaves  from  the  sketch- 
book of  an  animal  artist. — Hunting  with  a  camera. 

Carter,  Marion  Hamilton,  ed.  j  C237b 

Bear  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century. 

Partial  contents:  The  bears  of  North  America,  by  W.  T.  Hornaday. — Baby  Syl- 
vester, by  Bret  Harte. — Bruin's  boxing  match,  by  C.  G.  D.  Roberts.. — The  curious  end 
of  the  general's  ride,  by  John  Lewees. — "Grizzly  Phil,"  by  S.  F.  Hamp. — A  polar  bear 
for  a  jailer,  by  Edmund  Collins. — The  coyote  and  the  bear,  by  C.  F.  Lummis. — Bear 
sayings. 

Carter,  Marion  Hamilton,  ed.  j  C237C 

Cat  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century. 

Partial  contents:  Some  literary  cats,  by  H.  M.  Winslow. — The  story  of  the  "Cen- 
tury" cat,  by  M.  F.  Honeyman. — Midshipman,  the  cat,  by  J.  C.  Adams. — How  cats  came 
to  purr,  by  John  Bennett. — Cat  sayings. 

Carter,  Marion  Hamilton,  ed.  j  C237I 

Lion  and  tiger  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century. 

Partial  contents:  An  adventure  with  a  lion,  by  Ernest  Ingersoll. — Marjorie's  peril, 
by  Mary  Lockwood. — A  lion  hunt  in  a  sewer,  by  F.  C.  Bostock. — The  arms  of  Ahmed, 
by  J.  K.  Hildreth. — Tsang  Tsan  and  the  man-eater,  by  J.  R.  Coryell. — Was  he  a  coward? 
by  L.  E.  Richards. — The  wild-beast  tamer,  by  Cleveland  Moffett. 

Carter,  Marion  Hamilton,  ed.  j  C237P 

Panther  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century. 
Partial  contents:    The  cat  family  in  our  country,  by  W.  T.  Hornaday. — Some  stories 
about  the  "California  lion,"  by  E.  P.  Roe. — Story  of  Cora's  puma  rug,  by  Ernest  Inger- 
soll.— A  night   encounter,   by   C.  G.  D.    Roberts. — A   morning   call    from   a   panther,   by 
David  Ker. — Troublesome  neighbors,  by  Tudor  Jenks. 

Carter,  Marion  Hamilton,  ed.  j  C237S 

Stories  of  brave  dogs;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century. 
Partial  contents:     Bruno,  by   Mrs  C.  V.   Jamison. — Bombshell,   an  artillery  dog,  by 
J.  C.  W.   Brooks. — Little  Man  Friday,  by  Clara  Morris. — A  snow-king,  by  F.  R.  Stock- 
ton.— The  greyhound's  warning,  by  Hezekiah   Butterworth. — Gipsy,  the  biography  of  a 
dog,  by  T.  W.  Knox.— Peter  Spots,  fireman,  by  C.  T.  Hill. 

Carter,  Thomas  Thellusson.  j  822.33  H25 

Shakespeare's  stories  of  the  English  kings;  retold  by  Thomas  Car- 
ter, with  illustrations  by  G.  D.  Hammond.     [1910.]     Crowell. 

Contents:  King  Cymbeline. — King  John. — King  Richard  the  Second.— King  Henry 
the  Fourth  (before  Shrewsbury). — King  Henry  the  Fourth  (after  Shrewsbury). — King 
Henry  the  Fifth. — King  Henry  the  Sixth. — King  Richard  the  Third. — King  Henry  the 
Eighth. 

Cartwright,  Thomas,  juvenile  writer.  j  293  C24 

One  for  Wod  and  one  for  Lok;  or,  Asgard,  Midgard  and  Utgard. 

[1908.]     Dutton.     (Every  child's  library.) 

Old  Norse  stories  of  Odin  the  Wise,  Thor  the  Strong  and  Baldur  the  Beautiful;  of 

frost  giants  and  evil  Loki. 

Cary,  Alice,  &  Cary,  Phoebe.  j  811  C24b 

Ballads  for  little  folk;  ed.  by  Mary  Clemmer.     1873.     Houghton. 

Alice  and  Phoebe  Cary  were  born  in  a  farmhouse  in  Ohio,  and  in  the  poems  they 
tell  of  the  old  homestead,  their  playmates,  the  flowers,  the  insects  and  the  animals  which 
they  loved  so  well.  Some  of  the  children's  favorites  are,  Three  bugs. — Suppose. — The 
prairie  on  fire. — They  didn't  think. — A  legend  of  the  Northland. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  73 

Cary,  Alice,  &  Cary,  Phoebe.  j  811  C24 

Poetical  works.     1882.     Houghton. 

Ballads  and  narrative  poems,  poems  of  nature  and  home,  hymns,  and  poems  for 
children.  Whittier  has  paid  a  beautiful  and  enduring  tribute  to  Alice  Cary  in  his  poem, 
"The  singer." 

Catherwood,  Mrs  Mary  (Hartwell).  j  977  C28 

Heroes  of  the  middle  west;  the  French.    1898.    Ginn. 

Contents:  The  discoverers  of  the  upper  Mississippi  [Marquette  and  Joliet]. — 
Bearers  of  the  calumet. — The  man  with  the  copper  hand  [Henri  de  Tonty]. — The  un- 
despairing  Norman   [La  Salle]. — French  settlements. — The  last  great  Indian  [Pontiac]. 

Catherwood,  Mrs  Mary  (Hartwell).  j  C282ro 

Rocky  Fork.     Lothrop. 
All  about  "Dr  Garde's  little  girl"  and  her  good  times  in  Ohio  many  years  ago. 

Cavanagh,  George  Anthony.  j  533652  C29 

Model  aeroplanes  and  their  engines;  a  practical  book  for  beginners; 

drawings  by  H.  G.  Schultz,  with  an  introduction  by  Henry  Woodhouse. 

[Rev.  ed.]     1917.     Moffat. 

"World's  model  flying  records,"  p.139-141. 

Describes  the  construction  of  small  experimental  aeroplanes  propelled  by  compressed 

air,  gasoline  or  steam. 

Cave,  Edward.  j  796  C29 

The  boy  scout's  hike  book.     1913.     Doubleday. 

Tells  how  to  walk  when  on  a  hike,  what  clothes  to  wear,  what  sort  of  pack  to  carry, 
how  to  make  camp  and  what  to  cook.  Chapters  on  exploration,  woodcraft  and  emer- 
gencies. 

Cave,  Edward.  j  796.5  C29 

Boy's  camp  book;  a  guidebook  based  upon  the  annual  encampment 
of  a  boy  scout  troop;  the  second  of  a  series  of  handy  volumes  of  in- 
formation and  inspiration.     1916.     Doubleday. 

Cervantes  Saavedra,  Miguel  de.  j  C334i5 

Don  Quixote  of  the  Mancha;  retold  by  Judge  Parry.  Lane. 
Treats  of  the  pleasant  manner  of  the  knighting  of  that  famous  gentleman,  Don 
Quixote,  of  the  dreadful  and  never-to-be-imagined  adventure  of  the  windmills,  of  the 
extraordinary  battle  he  waged  with  what  he  took  to  be  a  giant,  and  of  divers  other  rare 
and  notable  adventures  and  strange  enchantments  which  befell  this  valorous  and  witty 
knight-errant.     Illustrated  in  color  by  Walter  Crane. 

Cervantes  Saavedra,  Miguel  de.  j  C334ih 

Stories  from  Don  Quixote,  by  H.  L.  Havell.    [1909.]    Dodge.    (Told 
through  the  ages  series.) 
Life  of  Cervantes,  p.13-10. 

Don  Quixote  of  the  Mancha,  having  read  many  books  of  chivalry,  resolves  to  turn 
knight-errant  and  sallies  forth  in  quest  of  adventure,  to  redress  wrongs  and  defend  the 
oppressed.  This  book  relates  what  thereafter  befell — how  he  was  dubbed  knight,  of  the 
battle  of  the  windmills,  the  duel  with  the  valiant  Biscayan,  the  winning  of  the  helmet  o1 
Mambrino,  the  adventures  in  the  enchanted  castle  and  how  Sancho  Panza  the  squire 
became  a  governor. 

Chadwick,  Mrs  Mara  Louise  Pratt-.    See  Pratt,  Mara  Louise. 

Chamberlain,  David  Blaisdell,  &  Harrington,  K.  P.  comp.        qj  784.6  C35 
Songs  of  all  the  colleges.     1906.    Hinds. 

Popular  songs  typical  of  different  colleges  and  universities.  A  few  of  them  are, 
Fair  Harvard. — Bingo. — Heidelberg. — Lauriger  EloratlUS  Maid  of  Athena. — The  red 
and  blue. — We  meet  again  to-night. — Old  college  days. — A  warrior  bold. — Triangle  song. 


74  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Chamberlain,  James  Franklin.  j  670  C35 

How  we  are  clothed;  a  geographical  reader.  1912.  Macmillan. 
(Home  and  world  series.) 

About  the  various  materials  of  which  clothing  is  made,  the  preparation  of  leather, 
furs  and  rubber,  and  the  manufacture  of  hats,  shoes  and  gloves. 

Chamberlain,  James  Franklin.  j  630  C35 

How  we  are  fed;  a  geographical  reader.  1912.  Macmillan.  (Home 
and  world  series.) 

Partial  contents:  Story  of  a  loaf  of  bread. — How  our  meat  is  supplied. — The  fish- 
ing industry. — A  rice  field. — How  sugar  is  made. — -Where  salt  comes  from. — On  a  coffee 
plantation. — The  tea  gardens  of  China. — A  cranberry  bog. — The  cocoanut  islands  of  the 
Pacific. — How  dates  grow. — A  visit  to  a  vineyard. — Chestnuts. — A  bag  of  peanuts. 

Chamberlain,  James  Franklin.  j  910  C355 

How  we  are  sheltered;  a  geographical  reader.  1907.  Macmillan. 
(Home  and  world  series.) 

"Let  us  take  a  journey  together,  and  visit  homes  in  our  own,  and  in  other  coun- 
tries. We  shall  learn  how  these  houses  are  made,  and  of  what  they  are  constructed. 
We  shall  also  become  somewhat  acquainted  with  the  people  who  live  in  them,  and  with 
the  countries  in  which  we  travel."     Introduction. 

Partial  contents:  Homes  in  cliffs. — The  dwellings  of  the  dwarfs. — Filipino  houses. 
— In  the  land  of  cocoanuts. — How  bricks  are  made. — Fire  and  its  uses. 

Chamberlain,  James  Franklin.  j  380  C35 

How  we  travel;  a  geographical  reader.  1914.  Macmillan.  (Home 
and  world  series.) 

Describes  methods  of  travel  in  different  lands — a  journey  in  a  jinrikisha,  an  ele- 
phant ride,  traveling  on  the  ice,  the  "ship  of  the  desert,"  horseless  carriages,  bicycles, 
steamships,  airships.  Also  tells  how  mail  is  delivered,  and  about  the  telegraph,  tele- 
phone and  cable.     Suitable  for  fourth  and  fifth  grades. 

Champney,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Williams).  j  C358pi 

Pierre  and  his  poodle.     Dodd. 

About  two  runaway  French  poodles  and  the  adventures  of  Pierre  while  in  search  of 
them. 

Chance,  Lulu  Maude.  j  910  C36 

Little  folks  of  many  lands.     1904.     Ginn. 

Contents:  Yaba,  the  Indian  girl. — Ikwa,  the  Eskimo  boy. — Mina,  the  Holland  girl. 
— Osom,  the  African  boy. — Ahmed,  the  Arabian  boy. — Tona,  the  Filipino  girl. — Matsu, 
the  Japanese  girl. 

Chandler,  Katherine.  j  398.097  C36 

In  the  reign  of  coyote;  folklore  from  the  Pacific  coast.     1905.    Ginn. 

Indian  folk-lore  stories  as  told  to  some  little  Spanish  children  by  three  Indian  story- 
tellers: Tecla,  their  nurse,  old  Klayukat,  the  saddler,  and  Wantasson,  the  blacksmith. 
Some  of  the  stories  are,  Why  the  mosquito  hates  smoke. — Why  the  snakes  change  their 
skins. — How  the  animals  got  their  colors. — Coyote's  ride  on  a  star. — Why  the  bat  is 
blind. — The  raccoon  and  the  man-of-tar. — Old  Deer  and  Old  Grizzly. — The  story  of  the 
Pleiades. 

Channon,  Frank  Ernest.  j  C36sa 

An  American  boy  at  Henley.     Little.     (Henley  schoolboys  series. ") 

An  American  boy's  experiences  in  an  English  school.  There  are  foot-ball,  boating 
and  cricket  matches,  holiday  adventures  in  Wales  and  an  exciting  rescue  of  the  master 
and  crew  from  a  foundering  brig  in  the  Bristol  channel. 

Channon,  Frank  Ernest.  j  C365I1 

Henley  on  the  battle  line.    Little.     (Henley  schoolboys  series.) 

Henley  school-days  over,  Roger  Jackson  joins  his  father,  who  is  building  a  govern- 
ment railroad  in  the  north  of  India.  Many  adventures  await  the  young  American  who 
is  captured  by  the  Afghans  and  later  serves  in  the  English  army. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  75 

j  784.4  C41 
Chansons  de  France  pour  les  petits  Frangais,  avec  accompagnements  de 
J.  B.  Weckerlin;  illustrations  par  Maurice  Boutet  de  Monvel. 

Chapin,  Anna  Alice.  j  782.3  H92C 

Konigskinder  (The  royal  children);  a  fairy  tale  founded  on  the  fairy 

opera  of  "Konigskinder"  for  which  Engelbert  Humperdinck  wrote  the 

music  and  Ernst  Rosmer  the  words,  told  for  children.     1911.     Harper. 

Story  of  the  royal  children  who  ate  of  the  magic  cake  in  the  enchanted  forest. 

Chapin,  Anna  Alice.  j  927.8  C36 

Masters  of  music;  their  lives  and  works.     1901.    Dodd. 

Contents:  Palest rina. — Scarlatti. — Handel. — Bach. — Marcello. — Pergolese. — Gluck. — 
Haydn. — Mozart. — Beethoven. — Weber. — Meyerbeer. —  Rossini. —  Schubert. — Berlioz. — 
Chopin.— Mendelssohn-Bartholdy. — Schumann. — Liszt. — Wagner. 

Chapin,  Anna  Alice.  j  782.2  C36 

Story  of  the  Rhinegold  (Der  ring  des  Nibelungen),  told  for  young 
people.     1897.     Harper. 

How  the  dwarf,  Alberich,  stole  the  Rhine  maidens'  gold  and  how  Siegfried,  the  great 
warrior,  and  Brunhild,  the  valkyria,  lifted  the  evil  spell  from  the  world.  Stories  from 
Richard  Wagner's  great  drama  "The  Nibelungen  ring." 

.Chapin,  Anna  Alice.  j  782.2  C36W 

Wonder  tales  from  Wagner,  told  for  young  people.  1898.  Harper. 
Contents:    The  flying  Dutchman. — Tannhauser. — Lohengrin. — Tristan  and  Isolde. — 

The  mastersingers  of  Nuremberg. 

Chapman,  Frank  Michler.  j  598.2  C36D2 

Bird-life;  a  guide  to  the  study  of  our  common  birds.  1902.  Apple- 
ton. 

Contains  a  field  key  to  common  birds,  valuable  chapters  on  structure,  usefulness  and 
migration,  with  brief  descriptions  of  each  species.  Includes  75  full-page  colored  plates 
and  an  appendix  for  the  use  of  teachers. 

Chapman,  Frank  Michler.  j  598.2  C360 

Our  winter  birds;  how  to  know  and  how  to  attract  them.     1918. 

Appleton. 

Contents:     Home  birds. — Field  birds. — Forest  birds. 

Chapman,  Frank  Michler.  j  598.2  C36t 

Travels   of  birds;    our   birds   and    their   journeys    to   strange   lands. 

1916.     Appleton. 

Appeared    in    "St.    Nicholas,"    v. 43,    Dec.     1915-July    1916,    under    title    "Birds    as 

travelers." 

Interesting   account  of   bird   migration.      The   questions   following   the   chapters   are 

suggestive  for  further  study. 

Chase,  Annie,  &  Clow,  E.  j  670  C38a3 

Stories  of  industry.     Rev.  ed.     2v.     1915—16.     Educational   Pub.  Co. 

Partial  contents : 

v.i.  Coal. —  Petroleum. —  Metals. —  Lumber. —  Marble  and  granite. —  Visit  to  the 
glass-works. — Paper  and  printing. — A  newspaper  in  the  making. 

v.2.  Cotton. — Wool. — Carpets. — Leather. — India-rubber. — Coffee.  —  Sugar. — Domes- 
tic animals. — Meats. — Fish. — Fruit. 

Chaucer,  Geoffrey.     Canterbury  tales.     For  adaptation  see 

Darton,  F.  J.  H.     Tales  of  the  Canterbury  pilgrims j  821  C4it 

Kelman,  J.  H.     Stories    from   Chaucer j  821    C41S 

Storr,  Francis,  &  Turner,  H.  H.     Canterbury  chimes j  821  C41C 

Tappan,  E.  M.    The  Chaucer  story  book j  821  C4icha 


76  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Chaucer,  Geoffrey.  qj  821  C41 

Chaucer  for  children;  ed.  by  Mrs  H.  R.  Haweis.    1907.     Chatto. 

Contains  a  chapter  on  "Chaucer  the  tale-teller,"  selections  from  the  "Canterbury- 
tales"  and  five  of  Chaucer's  minor  poems.  Eight  colored  pictures  and  many  small 
woodcuts. 

Chaucer,  Geoffrey.  j  821  C41CI1 

Chaucer  for  schools,  with  the  story  of  his  times  and  his  work  by 

Mrs  H.  R.  Haweis.     191 1.     Chatto. 

Selections  from  the  "Canterbury  tales"  giving  a   modernized  version  side  by  side 

with  Chaucer's  text.     Also  contains  some  of  Chaucer's  minor  poems. 

Chaucer,  Geoffrey.  j  821  C41SC 

Story  of  Chaucer's  Canterbury  pilgrims;  retold  for  children  by 
K.  L.  Bates.     1909.     Rand.     (Canterbury  classics.) 

"Authorities,"  p. 312-316. 

Account  of  the  Tabard  inn  and  the  pilgrims,  with  six  tales  retold  in  modern  Eng- 
lish verse.     Illustrations  from  photographs,  old  prints  and  manuscripts. 

Cheney,  Mrs  Ednah  Dow  (Littlehale),  ed.  j  92  A355C 

Louisa  May  Alcott;  her  life,  letters  and  journals.    1892.    Little. 
Girls  who  have  enjoyed  "Little  women,"  "Old-fashioned  girl"  and  other  stories  by 

Miss  Alcott  will  like  to  read  about  the  author's  life  in  Concord  and  about  the  real  "Jo,", 

"Meg,"  "Beth"  and  "Amy." 

Cherubini,  E.  j  C425P 

Pinocchio  in  Africa;  tr.  from  the  Italian  by  Angelo  Patri;  original 
drawings  by  Charles  Copeland.     Ginn. 

"Sequel  to  Collodi's  Pinocchio,  narrating  the  wooden  marionette's  experience  in 
Africa,  where  after  many  amusing  and  exciting  adventures  he  is  crowned  emperor  of 
all  Africa  by  a  cannibal  tribe."     Booklist,  ign. 

Chicago,  Francis  W.  Parker  School.     See  Francis  W.  Parker  School, 
Chicago. 

Chicago  School  of  Civics  and  Philanthropy.  j  793.1  C43 

[Plays  for  children.]  1917.  (Publications  of  the  Recreation  depart- 
ment, no. 1-4.) 

Contents:  The  princess  whom  no  one  could  silence. — Saddle  to  rags,  by  D.  Q. 
Appleton. — A  tramp  and  a  night's  lodging. — Robin  Hood,  by  Katharine  Taylor. 

Folk-tales  dramatized  by  students  in  the  story-telling  and  dramatic  classes  under  the 
direction  of  Mrs  Gudrun  Thorne-Thomsen. 

j  973  C43 
Children's  history  book;  tales  of  the  history  of  our  native  land,  by 
famous  story-tellers.    1896.    Lothrop. 

Partial  contents:  The  Pilgrims'  Easter  lily,  by  Hezekiah  Butterworth. — Lora  Stan- 
dish's  sampler,  by  J.  G.  Austin. — "When  George  the  Third  was  king,"  by  E.  S.  Brooks. — 
A  story  of  1812,  by  O.  R.  Seward. — Choosing  "Abe"  captain,  by  J.  C.  Ambrose. — For 
Decoration  day,  by  E.  S.  Brooks. 

The  children's  hour.  j  028.5  C43 

Guide  to  good  reading,  with  practical  directions  for  the  use  of  "The 
children's  hour"  in  the  home.     1912.     Houghton. 

Contains  two  practical  talks  to  parents:  "The  selection  of  stories  for  little  chil- 
dren," by  Elizabeth  McCracken,  and  "How  to  get  the  most  good  from  The  children's 
hour,",  by  E.  M.  Tappan.  Also  gives  lists  of  books  for  further  reading  suggested  by  the 
selections  in  the  series  of  books  known  as  "The  children's  hour,"  with  brief  accounts  of 
the  historical  characters  and  incidents  referred  to  and  short  biographical  sketches  of  the 
authors  from  whose  writings  the  selections  are  taken. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  77 

The  children's  hour;  ed.  by  E.  M.  Tappan. 

v.i.     Folk  stories   &  fables j  398  Tigf 

v.2.     Myths  from  many  lands j  291  T19 

v.3.     Stories  from  the  classics j  880.8  Tig 

v.4.     Stories  of  legendary  heroes j  398.2  T19 

v.5.     Stories  from  seven  old   favorites j  T192S 

v.6.     Old  fashioned  stories  &  poems j  T1920 

v.7.     The  out-of-door  book j  590.4  T19 

v.8.     Adventures  &  achievements j  920  Tiga 

v.o.     Poems  &  rhymes j  821.08  T19 

v.io.     Modern   stories j   T1921TI 

v.i  1.     Stories  of  nature j  504  T19 

v.i 2.     Sports  &  pastimes j  790  T19 

v.13.     Book  of  humor j  Tig2b 

v.14.     Modern  triumphs j  604  T19 

v.15.     Wonders  of  science j  504  Tigw 

Children's  library  of  work  and  play. 

Archer,  E.  A.     Needlecraft j  646  A67 

Foster,  E.  W.     Carpentry  and  woodwork j  684  F81 

Gilman,   E.  H.     Housekeeping j  640  G42 

Hodgson,  F.  T.     Mechanics  indoors  and  out j  620  H66 

Miller,  C.  H.     Outdoor  sports  and  games j  796  M6g 

Miller,  Mrs  Mary  (Rogers).    Outdoor  work . .  . .  j  630  M6g 

Shaw,  E.  E.     Gardening  and  farming j  716  S53 

Sleffel,  C.  C.     Working  in  metals j  73g  S63 

Warner,  C.  F.     Home  decoration j  747  W23 

Woodhull,  J.  F.    Electricity  and  its  everyday  uses j  621.3  W86 

Boone,  C.  L.  comp.     Guide  and  index j  7go  B63 

Chisholm,  Louey,  comp.  j  821.08  C44 

Golden  staircase;  poems  and  verses  for  children,  with  pictures  by 
M.  D.  Spooner.     [1007.]     Putnam. 

"The  Golden  Staircase  has  two  hundred  steps.  If  a  child  begins  to  climb  when  he 
is  four  years  old,  and  climbs  twenty  steps  each  year,  on  his  fourteenth  birthday  he  will 
reach  the  top.  Behind  him  will  descend  the  staircase  from  which  he  has  caught  glimpses 
of  the  merriment  and  beauty  and  heroism  beyond;  before  him  will  stretch  those  Elysian 
fields  through  which  his  feet  have  been  prepared  to  roam.  Following  the  two  hundred 
poems  and  verses  of  the  Golden  Staircase  are  twenty  Cradle  Songs... and  the  book 
ends  with  a  selection  of  forty  Carols,  Hymns  and  Sacred  Verses."  Preface. 
Colored  pictures. 

The  same.     [1907.]     Putnam j  821.08  C44a 

In    this   edition    the    carols    and    hymns    and    some    of    the    other    verses    have   been 
omitted  and  the  poems  are  arranged  in  nine  parts,  each  with  separate  paging. 

Chodzko,  Alexander  Edmund  Boreyko,  camp.  j  3g8  C44a 

Slav  fairy  tales  of  the  Slav  peasants  and  herdsmen.     Burt. 

New  edition  of  "Fairy  tales  of  the   Slav  peasants  and  herdsmen." 
Partial  contents:     The  maid  with   hair  of  gold. — The  dwarf  with  the  long  beard. — 
The    flying   carpet,  the   invisible   cap,    the   gold-giving    ring    and   the   smiting   club. — The 
prince  with  the  golden  hand. — Tears  of  pearls. — -The  story  of  the  plentiful  tablecloth,  the 
avenging  wand,  the  sash  that  becomes  a  lake  and  the  terrible  helmet. 
Pictures  by  Emily  J.  Harding. 


78  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

qj  398  C462 
Christmas  tales  of  Flanders;  illustrated  by  Jean  de  Bosschere.  1917. 
Dodd. 

Twenty-three  folk  tales,  favorites  of  the  children  of  Belgium,  with  12  unique  colored 
illustrations  and  many  others  in  black  and  white. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  873  V34.C 

yEneid  for  boys  and  girls;  told  from  Virgil  in  simple  language.    1918. 

Macmillan. 

More  simply  written  than  the  author's  "Stories  from  Virgil." 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  888  L96 

The  Greek  Gulliver;  stories  from  Lucian.     1891.     Seeley. 

A  traveler's  true  tale  from  Lucian,  being  an  account  of  his  marvelous  adventures 
with  the  moon-folk,  the  pumpkin  pirates,  the  ox-headed  people  and  other  strange  crea- 
tures. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  938  C46h 

Helmet  and  spear;  stories  from  the  wars  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans. 
1914.    Macmillan. 

Contents:  Greece  and  Persia;  the  defence. — Greece  and  Carthage. — Greece  and 
Persia;  the  attack. — Rome  and  Carthage. — Rome  and  the  barbarians;  the  rise. — Rome 
and  the  barbarians;  the  decline. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  398.2  C46 

Heroes  of  chivalry  and  romance.     1898.     Seeley. 

Contents:  The  story  of  Beowulf. — King  Arthur  and  the  Round  Table. — The  treas- 
ure of  the  Nibelungs. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  883  H75icr 

Iliad  for  boys  and  girls;  told  from  Homer  in  simple  language.     1916. 

Macmillan. 

More  simply  written  than  the  author's  "Story  of  the  Iliad."     Colored  pictures. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  C468I 

Lords  of  the  world;  a  story  of  the  fall  of  Carthage  and  Corinth. 

Scribner. 

A  story  of  the  year  146  B.  C.     The  incidents  center  around  the  person  of  a  young 

Greek  lad  who  struggles  in  vain  to   resist  the  conquering  Romans. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  883  H750CU 

Odyssey  for  boys  and  girls,  told  from  Homer.     1906.     Macmillan. 

Wanderings  of  Ulysses  and  his  adventures  with  the  giant  Cyclops,  the  enchantress 
Circe  and  the  fairy  Calypso. 

Told  in  the  natural  order  of  the  adventures,  in  the  third  person  and  more  simply 
than  in  the  author's  "Story  of  the  Odyssey."  Twelve  Flaxman  illustrations  delicately 
colored. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  938  C46 

Pictures  from  Greek  life  and  story.    1894.     Putnam. 

About  great  people  and  events:  Solon,  Themistocles,  Pericles,  Alcibiades ;  the  bat- 
tles of  Salamis,  Marathon  and  Thermopylae;  the  Sicilian  expedition,  the  great  plague  of 
Athens  and  the  trial  and  death  of  Socrates. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  9x3.37  C46 

Roman  life  in  the  days  of  Cicero;  sketches  drawn  from  his  letters 
and  speeches.     1898.     Seeley. 

Interesting  sketches  of  men  and  manners  grouped  round  the  central  figure  of 
Cicero  and  giving  an  excellent  idea  of  life  in  Rome  and  the  provinces  during  the  first 
century  B.  C. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  79 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  883  H75S 

Stories  from  Homer.     Seeley. 

Contains  "The  Iliad;  or,  The  siege  of  Troy"  and  "The  Odyssey;  or,  The  adventures 
of  Ulysses."  The  same  stories  are  told  more  fully  in  this  author's  "Story  of  the  Iliad" 
and  "Story  of  the  Odyssey."  Twenty-four  illustrations  in  color  from  Flaxman  s 
famous  designs. 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  878  L75S 

Stories  from  Livy.     1882.     Seeley. 

Tells  of  Numa,  Alba,  Tarquin  the  elder,  Servius,  Brutus,  Lars  Porsena,  Coriolanus, 
the  Fabii,  Cincinnatus,  the  Decemvirs,  Virginia,  the  Veii,  Camillus,  Rome  and  the  Gauls, 
Manlius  of  the  twisted  chain,  the  passes  of  Claudium. 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  882  C46S 

Stories  from  the  Greek  comedians,  Aristophanes,  Philemon,  Diphilus, 
Menander,  Apollodorus.     1892.     Seeley. 

Partial  contents:  The  wasps.— The  frogs. — The  parliament  of  women. — The  buried 
treasure. — The  ghost. — The  shipwreck. — The  girl  of  Andros. 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  882  C46 

Stories  from  the  Greek  tragedians.     1879.     Seeley. 

Contents:  The  love  of  Alcestis. — The  vengeance  of  Medea. — The  death  of  Her- 
cules.— The  seven  chiefs  against  Thebes. — Antigone. — Iphigenia  in  Aulis. — Philoctetes. 
— The  death  of  Agamemnon. — Electra;  or,  The  return  of  Orestes. — The  furies;  or, 
The  loosing  of  Orestes. — Iphigenia  among  the  Taurians.—  The  Persians;  or,  The  battle 
of  Salamis. — Ion. 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  873  V34 

Stories  from  Virgil.     1878.     Seeley. 

The  destruction  of  Troy  and  the  adventures  of  tineas  retold  from  Virgil  in  simple 
narrative  form.     Twenty  illustrations  from  Pinelli's  designs. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  398.26  C46 

Stories  of  Charlemagne  and  the  twelve  peers  of  France,  from  the 
old  romances.     1902.     Seeley. 

The  romances  retold  are,  "The  four  sons  of  Ayraon,"  "Ralph  the  collier,"  "Fiera- 
bras,"  "The  song  of  Roland"  and  "Duke  Huon  of  Bordeaux."     Colored  illustrations. 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  888  H47 

Stories  of  the  East  from  Herodotus.     Dodd. 

The  stories  tell  how  Crcesus,  king  of  Lydia,  was  defeated  by  the  Persians,  how  King 
Cyrus  took  the  city  of  Babylon,  of  certain  kings  of  Egypt  and  the  manners  of  the  people, 
of  Cambyses  and  the  false  Smerdis  and  how  King  Darius  made  war  upon  the  Scythians. 
Illustrations  from  ancient  frescoes  and  sculptures. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  292  C46 

Stories  of  the  Old  World.     1899.     Ginn.     (Classics  for  children.) 
Tells  of  the  good  ship  Argo  and  the  quest   for  the  golden   fleece,   of  the  riddle  of 

the  Thcban  Sphinx  and  the  doom  of  the  house  of  (Fdipus;  also  of  the  fall  of  Troy,  the 

wanderings  of  the  crafty  Ulysses  and  the  adventures  of  ./Eneas. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  8S3  H7sich 

Story  of  the  Iliad.     1898.     Macmillan. 

What  befell  the  Greeks  before  the  walls  of  Troy.  Tells  of  the  daring  of  Diomed, 
the  wisdom  of  Nestor,  the  shrewdness  of  Ulysses,  the  foolish  pride  of  Agamemnon,  the 
nobility  of  Hector,  the  grief  of  old  King  Priam  and  the  courage  of  Achilles. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  883  H7.soch 

Story  of  the  Odyssey.     1897.     Macmillan. 

Retells  the  Homeric  story  in  attractive  prose,  the  order  of  events  following  the 
original.      Sixteen   illustrations   in   black   and   white    after    Flaxman, 


8o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Church,  Alfred  John,  ed.  j  888  H47C 

Story  of  the  Persian  war,  from  Herodotus.     1893.     Dodd. 
Among  other  events,  the  battle  of  Marathon,  the  defense  of  Thermopyhe  and  the 

battle  of  Salamis.     Colored  illustrations  from  sculptures  and  vases.     Companion  volume 

to  the  author's  "Stories  of  the  East  from  Herodotus." 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  C468t 

Three  Greek  children.    Seeley. 

These  "three  Greek  children,"  two  girls  and  a  boy,  lived  in  Athens  more  than  2,000 
years  ago.  They  made  visits  to  Marathon,  Salamis,  Sparta,  Tegea  and  Corinth,  where 
they  learned  much  about  the  history,  mythology  and  customs  of  their  country. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  C468to 

To  the  lions;  a  tale  of  the  early  Christians.     Seeley. 

Deals  with  the  persecution  of  the  Christians  in  the  second  century  and  especially 
with  the  fate  of  two  girls,  twin  sisters.  The  scene  is  in  Nicaea  at  the  time  when  Pliny, 
the  younger,  was  governor  of  the  Roman  province  of  Bithynia. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  C468tw 

Two  thousand  years  ago;  or,  The  adventures  of  a  Roman  boy. 
Blackie. 

The  scene  is  laid  in  the  Roman  empire  in  the  first  century  B.  C,  the  hero  being  a 
young  Roman  on  board  a  vessel  detailed  for  the  suppression  of  pirates.  Spartacus,  the 
gladiator,  and  Mithridates,  king  of  Pontus,  appear  as  characters  in  the  story. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  C468W 

With  the  king  at  Oxford;  a  tale  of  the  great  rebellion.     Seeley. 
Part  taken  by  a  young  Oxford  student  in  the  struggle  between  Charles  I  and  the 

Roundheads. 

Church,  Alfred  John.  j  C468y 

A  young  Macedonian  in  the  army  of  Alexander  the  Great.  Putnam. 
Adventures  of  two  friends  who  join  Alexander's  army  and  take  part  in  his  great 

conquest  of  Asia. 

Civil  war  stories  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j  C496 

Contents:  Off  to  the  war. — Virginia  scenes  in  '61. — The  Merrimac  and  the  Moni- 
tor.— Eleanor's  colonel. — -Lieutenant  Harry. — A  story  of  Farragut. — -A  drummer-boy 
at  Gettysburg. — -How  Moses  was  emancipated. — Lincoln's  God-speed  to  Grant. — Sheri- 
dan in  the  valley. — The  picket-guard. — The  Alabama  and  the  Kearsarge. — Lieutenant 
Cushing  and  the  ram  Albemarle. — Sherman's  march  to  the  sea. 

Clark,  Henry  Howard.  j  C5222b 

Boy  life  in  the  United  States  navy.     Lothrop. 

Joe  Bently's  training  on  the  United  States  school-ship  Minnesota  and  his  adventures 
on  a  man-of-war. 

Clarke,  Eliot  Channing.  j  523.8  C52 

Astronomy  from  a  dipper,  with  charts.     1909.     Houghton. 

How  to  locate  the  constellations  and  principal  stars  by  means  of  the  dipper.  Con- 
tains simple  drawings  and  explanations. 

Clarke,  George  Herbert,  ed.  j  821.08  C53 

Treasury  of  war  poetry;  British  and  American  poems  of  the  world 
war,  with  introduction  and  notes.    2v.     1917-19.     Houghton. 

v.i.      1914-17. 

V.2.        1914-19. 

Although  v. 2  covers  dates  of  v.i,  the  poems  included  are  entirely  new. 
Clarke,  Helen  Archibald.  j  291  C53 

Child's  guide  to  mythology.     1908.    Baker. 

Contents:  What  is  a  myth? — Animals  in  primitive  myths. — Animals  in  culture 
myths. — Tree  and  plant  myths. — Myths  of  the  sun,  moon  and  stars. — Myths  of  the  sky 
and  air. — Mother-myths  and  child-myths. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Clarke,  Michael.  j  873  V34ac 

Story  of  .Tineas.    1898.    Amer.  Book  Co.    (Eclectic  school  readings.) 

Gives  the  leading  events  of  the  ^neid  with  many  quotations  from  the  translations 
by  Dryden  and  Conington.     Intended  for  supplementary  reading  in  schools. 

Clarke,  Michael.  j  92  Cngc 

Story  of  Caesar.     1898.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Deeds  of  the  illustrious  Roman  whom  Shakespeare  calls  "the  foremost  man  of  all 
this  world." 

Clarke,  Michael.  j  883  H75ic 

Story  of  Troy.     1897.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

"In  this  book  we  are  to  tell  the  story  of  Troy  and  particularly  of  the  famous  siege 
which  ended  in  the  total  destruction  of  that  renowned  city.  It  is  a  story  of  brave  war- 
riors and  heroes  of  3000  years  ago,  about  whose  exploits  the  greatest  poets  and  historians 
of  ancient  times  have  written."     Introduction. 

School  reading-book.  The  story  of  the  siege  is  prefaced  by  a  short  account  of 
Homer  and  of  the  gods  and  goddesses  who  figured  in  the  Iliad. 

Clarke,  William  Joseph.  j  537-8i  C53 

A.  B.  C.  of  electrical  experiments;  a  practical  elementary  book 
especially  adapted  to  beginners  &  students.  1902.  Excelsior  Pub. 
House. 

Tells  how  to  construct  simple  types  of  batteries,  electromagnets,  wireless  telegraph 
instruments,  dynamos,  motors  and  static  machines. 

Claudy,  Carl  Harry.  j  796.31  C54 

The  battle  of  base-ball.     1912.     Century. 

Contains  also  "How  I  became  a  big-league  pitcher,"  by  Christy  Mathevvson. 
"A.  G.    Spalding's  simplified   rules,"  p. 353-377- 

Claudy,  Carl  Harry.  j  770  C54a 

The  first  book  of  photography;  a  primer  of  theory  and  practice  for 
the  beginner.     1918.     McBride. 

Simple  and  practical  directions  for  taking  kodak  pictures.  Chapters  on  exposure, 
development  and  printing. 

Clay,  Beatrice.  j  398.25  C54 

Stories  of  King  Arthur  and  the  Round  Table.     [1911.]     Dent. 
Contents:     The  coming  of  Arthur. — Sir  Launcelot. — Sir  Tristram. — King  Arthur's 
nephews. — Sir  Geraint. — The  lady  of  the  fountain. — The  adventures   of  Sir  Peredur. — 
The  Holy  Grail.— The  fair  maid  of  Astolat. — Queen  Guenevere. — The  morte  d'Arthur. 

Clay,  Oliver.  j  973-1  C54 

The   treasure  finders;  or,  How  the  adventurers  of  four   countries 

sought  a  new  land.     1914.     Duffield. 

Contents:     The  sea  rovers. — The  man  who  found  a  country. — From  English  shores. 

— The  finding  of  an  ocean. — -The  man  who  sailed  around  the  world. — The  conqueror  of 

Mexico. — The  Father  of  Waters. — The  opening  of  the  gateway  of  Canada. — The  father 

of  New  France. — The  mystery  of  the  Half  Moon. 

Clayton,  Gertrude  L.  j  74*  C55 

Crayon,  chalk  and  pencil  drawing.     191 1.     Flanagan. 

Clemens,  Samuel  Langhorne.     Sec  Twain,  Mark,  pseud. 

Clement,  Mrs  Clara  (Erskine),  afterward  Mrs  Waters.  j  755  C56 

Angels  in  art.     1898.     Page.     (Art  lovers'  series.) 
Legends  of  angels,  illustrated  with  34  plates  reproducing  famous  pictures  from  Fra 

Angelico  to  Bouguereau. 


82  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Clement,  Mrs  Clara  (Erskine),  afterward  Mrs  Waters.  j  755  C56S 

Saints  in  art.     1899.     Page.     (Art  lovers'  series.) 

Contents:  Concerning  the  representations  of  saints  in  art. — The  evangelists. — The 
apostles. — The  Fathers  of  the  church. — Patron  saints. — The  virgin  patronesses  and  the 
great  virgins  of  the  Latin  church. — Other  saints  important  in  art. 

Beautifully  illustrated  with  33   reproductions  of  great  paintings. 

Clement,  Mrs  Clara  (Erskine),  afterward  Mrs  Waters.  qj  750  C56 

Stories  of  art  and  artists.     1887.     Houghton. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.8-13,  Jan.  1881-Sept.   1886. 

Contains  81  pictures  of  famous  paintings  and  sculptures  from  the  days  of  the  an- 
cient Greeks  to  modern  times.  Among  others  are,  the  Quoit-thrower,  the  Venus  of  Milo, 
the  Laocoon,  the  Farnese  bull,  the  Last  supper  by  Da  Vinci,  the  statue  of  Moses  by 
Michael  Angelo,  the  Sistine  Madonna  by  Raphael,  Beatrice  Cenci  by  Guido  Reni,  St. 
George  and  the  dragon  by  Diirer,  the  Blue  boy  by  Gainsborough,  one  of  Landseer's 
lions.     Also  gives  stories  about  the  original  marbles  or  paintings  and  their  artists. 

Clodd,  Edward.  j  411  C61 

Story  of  the  alphabet.     1906.    Appleton.    (Library  of  useful  stories.) 

Contents:  The  beginnings  of  the  alphabet. — Memory-aids  and  picture-writing. — 
Chinese,  Japanese  and  Corean  scripts. — Cuneiform  writing.— Egyptian  hieroglyphics. — 
The  Rosetta  stone. — Egyptian  writing  in  its  relation  to  other  scripts. — Trie  Cretan  and 
allied  scripts. — Greek  papyri. — Runes  and  ogams. 

Coates,  Henry  Troth,  comp.  j  821.08  C62C 

Children's  book  of  poetry;  selected  from  the  best  and  most  popular 
writers.     1872.     Winston. 

Arranged  under  such  headings  as  Baby-days. — Play-days. — Lessons  of  life. — Animals 
and  birds. — Trees  and  flowers. — Nature. — Christmas  and  New  Year.— Old  tales  and  bal- 
lads.—Famous  poems  for  older  children. 

Cobb,  Bertha  Browning,  &  Cobb,  Ernest.  j  C629C 

Clematis.     Putnam. 

"A  small  girl  who  knows  only  that  her  name  is  Clematis  is  picked  up  by  a  friendly 
policeman  and  taken  to  a  children's  home.  In  the  summer  when  she  is  sent  to  the 
country  to  rest,  she  finds  her  grandfather.  The  language  is  simple  and  the  print 
large."     Booklist,  1919. 

Coburn,  Claire  Martha.  j  914-85  C63 

Our  little  Swedish  cousin.    1906.    Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Some  Stockholm  children  take  part  in  a  skating  carnival,  a  Midsummer  eve  festival, 
a  name-day  party  and  in  the  preparations  and  festivities  of  Christmas,  visit  their  grand- 
mother in  the  country,  take  a  trip  through  the  Gota  canal  and  spend  a  day  in  the  famous 
park,  Skansen,  near  Stockholm. 

Coburn,  Claire  Martha. 

Sigrid,  our  little  Swedish  cousin.    See  her  Our  little  Swedish  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Cochrane,  Charles  Henry.  j  604  C64 

Wonders  of  modern  mechanism.     Ed.4.     1904.     Lippincott. 

Resume  of  progress  in  mechanical,  physical  and  engineering  science  to  the  end  of 
the  19th  century.  Describes  modern  "sky-scraper"  office  buildings,  bridges,  tunnels, 
the  conveyance  of  electric  power  from  Niagara,  etc. 

Cochrane,  Robert,  ed.  j  C645f 

Four  hundred  animal  stories.     Lippincott. 

Contents:  Strange  pets  on  shipboard. — Monkey  stories. — Talking  birds. — Horse 
stories. — Dog  stories. — Cat  stories.— Elephant  stories. — Lion  stories. — Tiger  and  leopard 
tales. — Bear  stories. — Dangerous  reptiles. 

Codd,  Margaret  Jane. 

On  board  a  U.  S.  battleship.    See  her  With  Evans  to  the  Pacific. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  83 

Codd,  Margaret  Jane.  j  359  C65 

With  Evans  to  the  Pacific;  a  story  of  the  battle  fleet.  1909.  Flan- 
agan. 

Cruise  of  the  Atlantic  fleet  from  Hampton  Roads  to  San  Francisco,  1907-08.  Tells 
of  life  on  board  ship,  the  amusements  of  the  men,  shore  leave,  the  New  Year's  celebra- 
tion, etc.  and  gives  an  account  of  different  cities.  Tells  also  of  previous  events  in  the 
life  of  Admiral  Evans.     Appendix  states  the  conditions  for  entering  the  navy. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "On  board  a  U.  S.  battleship." 

Cody,  Sherwin.  j  928  C65 

Four  American  poets:  Bryant,  Longfellow,  Whittier,  Holmes;  a 
book  for  young  Americans.     1899.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Cody,  Sherwin.  j  928  C6sf 

Four  famous  American  writers:  Irving,  Poe,  Lowell,  Bayard  Tay- 
lor; a  book  for  young  Americans.     1899.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Coe,  Fanny  E.  j  973-2  C65 

Founders  of  our  country.     1912.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Account  of  the  discovery  of  America  and  of  the  early  explorers  and  settlers.  In- 
tended for  use  in  the  fourth  grade  and  follows  the  plan  of  the  Committee  of  Eight  of 
the  American  Historical  Association.     Illustrated. 

Coe,  Fanny  E.  comp.  j  920  C65 

Heroes  of  everyday  life;  a  reader  for  the  upper  grades.    191 1.    Ginn. 

Contents:  The  diver  [T.  A.  Scott],  by  F.  H.  Smith. — The  telegraph  operator,  by 
A.  W.  Rolker. — The  civil  engineer,  by  A.  W.  Rolker  and  D.  A.  Willey. — The  day  laborer, 
by  Gustav  Kobbe  and  Bret  Harte. — The  life-saver,  from  United  States  life-saving  reports. 
— The  fireman,  by  J.  A.  Riis  and  Walt  Whitman. — The  engineer  at  sea,  by  Gustav 
Kobbe  and  Lawrence  Perry. — The  miner,   by   Gustav  Kobbe    [and   others]. 

Coe,  Fanny  E.  j  914  C65 

Modern  Europe.     1898.     Silver.     (The  world  and  its  people.) 

Geographical  reader  giving  an  account  of  the  principal  countries  and  cities  and  of 
the  occupations  of  the  people  and  their  modes  of  living. 

Coe,  Fanny  E.  v  j  917  C65 

Our    American    neighbors.      1898.      Silver.      (The    world    and    its 

people.) 

Interesting  descriptions  of  Canada,  Mexico,  Central  and  South  America. 

Coe,  Ida,  &  Christie,  A.  J.  j  372.4  C65 

Story  hour  readers;  primer.     1913.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Colored  pictures. 

Coe,  Ida,  &  Christie,  A.  J.  j  372.4  C65S 

Story  hour  readers.    3v.     1913-14.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

For  first,  second  and  third  grades.     Colored  pictures. 

Coffin,  Charles  Carleton.  j  92  L715C 

Abraham  Lincoln.     1893.     Harper. 

Author  was  personally  acquainted  with  President  Lincoln,  visited  the  scenes  of  his 
early  life  and  had  many  interviews  with  those  who  had  known  him  in  his  early  days. 
Many  pictures. 

Coffin,  Charles  Carleton.  j  973-3  C66 

Boys  of  '76.     1876.     Harper. 

History  of  the  battles  of  the  Revolution. 


84  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Coffin,  Charles  Carleton.  j  973.7  C66D2 

Boys  of  '61;  or,  Four  years  of  fighting;  personal  observation  with 
the  army  and  navy  from  the  first  battle  of  Bull  Run  to  the  fall  of  Rich- 
mond.    1898.     Page. 

Soldier's  life  during  the  Civil  war;  in  the  hospital,  on  the  march,  and  in  the  hour 
of  battle.     Originally  letters   of  a  war  correspondent. 

Coffin,  Charles  Carleton.  j  973  C66 

Building  the  nation;  events  in  the  history  of  the  United  States  from 
the  Revolution  to  the  war  between  the  states  [1783-1860].  1882.  Har- 
per. 

About  the  building  of  the  first  steamboat,  the  war  with  the  Barbary  pirates,  Perry's 
victory  on  Lake  Erie,  the  gold  excitement  in  California,  the  struggle  between  the  free 
state  and  slave  state  men  in  Kansas,  and  other  events  in  the  history  of  the  United  States. 

Coffin,  Charles  Carleton.  j  973.7  C66fo 

Following  the  flag.     1865.     Page. 

Account  of  the  operations  of  the  army  of  the  Potomac  while  commanded  by  Mc- 
Clellan. 

Coffin,  Charles  Carleton.  j  973.7  C66m 

My  days  and  nights  on  the  battle-field.     1887.     Page. 

The  author's  own  experiences  at  the  battle  of  Bull  Run,  the  naval  fight  at  Memphis, 
the  battle  of  Pittsburg  Landing  and  the  capture  of  forts  Henry  and  Donelson. 

Coffin,  Charles  Carleton.  j  C662W 

Winning  his  way.     Page. 

How  a  plucky  boy  not  only  won  his  way  through  poverty  and  trials,  but  did  brave 
deeds  as  a  soldier  in  the  Union  army. 

Cole,  Norman  Brown,  &  Ernst,  C.  H.  j  614.88  C68 

First  aid  for  boys;  a  manual  for  boy  scouts  and  for  others  inter- 
ested in  prompt  help  for  the  injured  and  sick,  with  drawings  by  Walt 
Harris.     1917.     Appleton. 

First  chapters  consider  the  emergencies  that  are  most  dangerous  to  life,  such  as 
shock,  bleeding,  sunstroke  and  heat  exhaustion.  Other  chapters  tell  what  to  do  in  case 
of  burns,  poisoning,  fractures,  dislocations  and  other  accidents.  Directions  are  clear 
and  simple  and  drawings  expressive. 

Coleridge,  Samuel  Taylor.  j  821  C68 

The  rime  of  the  ancient  mariner,  and  Christabel.     Putnam. 

"It  is  an  ancient  Mariner, 
And  he  stoppeth  one  of  three. 
'By  thy  long  grey  beard  and  glittering  eye, 
Now  wherefore  stopp'st  thou  me? 

He  holds  him  with  his  glittering  eye — 
The  wedding  guest  stood  still, 
And  listens  like  a  three  years'  child: 
The  Mariner  hath  his  will." 

From  The  rime  of  the  ancient  mariner. 

Collins,  Archie  Frederick.  j  537  C69 

Book  of  electricity;  written  to  conform  to  the  tests  of  the  boy 
scouts.     1916.     Appleton. 

Contains  chapters  on  electric  lighting  and  heating,  electric  wiring  and  the  measure- 
ment of  electricity.     Many  illustrative  diagrams. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  85 

Collins,  Archie  Frederick.  j  133  C69 

Book  of  magic;  a  simple  description  of  some  good  tricks  and  how 
to  do  them,  with  patter.     1915.    Appleton. 

Includes  chapters  on  Second  sight  experiments. — Feats  of  mind  reading. — The  art 
of  black  art. — Shadowgraphs  and  silhouettes. — Some  good  stage   illusions. 

Collins,  Archie  Frederick.  j  654.1  C69 

Book  of  wireless;  a  clear  description  of  wireless  telegraph  sets  and 
how  to  make  and  operate  them,  with  a  simple  explanation  of  how  wire- 
less works.     1915.    Appleton. 

Practical  handbook,  with  illustrative  diagrams. 

Collins,  Archie  Frederick.  j  680  C69I1 

Handicraft  for  boys.     1918.     Stokes. 

Contents:  Carpentry  work  and  cabinet  making. — Scroll  sawing,  wood  turning, 
wood  carving,  etc. — Metals  and  metal  working. — Venetian  iron,  repousse,  pierced  brass 
and  pewter  work. — Drawing  simply  explained. — Some  kinks  in  photography. — Printing 
and  its  allied  arts. — Rubber  stamps,  die  sinking,  burning  brands  and  stencils. — The  art 
of  working  glass. — Toys  for  the  kiddies. — Home  made  musical  instruments. — -Some  even- 
ing entertainments. 

Collins,  Archie  Frederick.  j  680  C69 

Home  handy  book;  a  compendium  of  useful  things  to  do  around 
the  average  house  and  how  to  keep  it  in  repair.     1917.     Appleton. 

Contents:  Tools  everyone  should  have. — Indoor  mechanics. — Be  your  own  lock- 
smith.— Doing  electrical  jobs. — The  amateur  plumber. — The  handy  glazier.— The  furni- 
ture repairer. — The  home  decorator. — Handy  helps  for  the  house. — Odds  and  ends. 

Collins,  Archie  Frederick.  j  530.7  C69 

Magic  of  science;  a  book  of  scientific  amusements  which  can  be 
performed  with  simple  apparatus.     1917.     Revell. 

Directions  for  making  scientific  toys  and  for  performing  many  experiments  in  heat, 
light,  sound,  magnetism  and  electricity. 

Collins,  Francis  Arnold.  j  533.6  C71 

Boys'  book  of  model  aeroplanes;  how  to  build  and  fly  them,  with 
the  story  of  the  evolution  of  the  flying  machine.     1910.     Century. 

Partial  contents:  Why  the  aeroplane  flies. — How  to  build  a  "glider." — Building  the 
motor. — Simple  monoplane  models. — Building  a  biplane. — The  Wright  brothers'  own 
story. — Aboard   the   Wrights'    air-ship. — -Successful    monoplanes. — Aerial    warfare. 

Illustrated  with  photographs  and  diagrams. 

Collins,  Francis  Arnold.  j  533.6  C71S 

Second  boys'  book  of  model  aeroplanes.     1914.     Century. 

Tells  how  to  construct  and  fly  small  models.  Illustrated  with  photographs  and  dia- 
grams. 

Collins,  Francis  Arnold.  j  654.1  C71 

The  wireless  man;  his  work  and  adventures  on  land  and  sea.    1912. 

Century. 

Chapters  explaining  how  wireless  telegraphy  works,  about  its  different  uses  and  the 

necessary  equipment.     Also  gives  an  account  of  stirring  wireless  rescues  and  anecdotes 

of  different  operators.     Illustrated  with  photographs  and  diagrams. 

Collins,  Virgil  Dewey.  j  355.5  C71 

Boys'  military  manual;  a  book  of  information  about  our  army  and 
the  first  principles  of  military  service  for  boys.     1918.     Stokes. 

Collodi,  C.  pseud.    See  Lorenzini,  Carlo. 


86  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Coloma,  Luis.  j  C721P 

Perez  the  mouse;  adapted  from  the  Spanish  by  Lady  Moreton. 
Lane. 

Little  King  Bubi,  changed  into  a  mouse,  visits  the  Perez  family,  who  live  in  a  bis- 
cuit tin,  and  Giles,  a  poor  little  boy.  First  written  to  amuse  a  real  boy  king.  Colored 
pictures. 

Colonial  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j   C722 

Contents:  Ma-ta-oka  of  Pow-ha-tan. — How  the  Pilgrims  came  to  Plymouth. — Little 
Susan  Boudinot. — The  first  Christmas  tree  in  New  England. — The  fight  for  a  language. 
— Old  Dutch  times  in  New  York. — An  early  American  rebellion. — My  grandmother's 
grandmother's  Christmas  candle. — Little  Puritans. — A  new  leaf  from  Washington's  boy 
life. — The  stamp-act  box. — Our  colonial  coins. 

Colson,  Elizabeth,  &  Chittenden,  A.  G.  comp.  j  826  C72 

Children's  letters;  a  collection  of  letters  written  to  children  by 
famous  men  and  women.     1905.    Hinds. 

There  is  a  letter  from  the  poet  Longfellow  telling  about  his  three  little  girls,  letters 
from  Phillips  Brooks  to  his  little  nieces  describing  Venice,  Wittenberg  and  Vienna,  and 
others  written  to  children  by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  Kingsley,  Luther,  Andersen,  Hawthorne, 
Lewis  Carroll  and  other  famous  people. 

Colum,  Padraic.  j  883  H75C 

Adventures  of  Odysseus  and  the  tale  of  Troy;  presented  by  Willy 

Pogany.     1918.     Macmillan. 

"How  Telemachus  the  son  of  Odysseus  was  moved  to  go  on  a  voyage   in  search 

of  his   father   and  how   he   heard   from    Menelaus   and  Helen  the   tale   of  Troy."      Also 

tells  of  the  wanderings  of  Odysseus  and  how  he  came  to  reign  again  as  king  of  Ithaca. 

Colum,  Padraic.  j  C727b 

Boy  in  Eirinn.     Dutton.     (Little  schoolmate  series.) 
Tells  of  the  every-day  life  of  an   Irish  boy.     He  hears  stories  of  Finn   MacCoul, 

King  Brian  and  other  heroes,  and  journeys  to  Dublin  by  way  of  the  historic  hill  of  Tara. 

Contains  an  Irish  play  that  can  be  acted  by  schoolboys. 

Colum,  Padraic.  j  398  C72 

The  boy  who  knew  what  the  birds  said.  1918.  Macmillan. 
How  the  Boy  came  to  know  what  the  birds  said,  with  some  of  the  good  stories  he 
heard  them  tell  each  other — about  the  stone  of  victory  and  how  Feet-in-the-ashes,  the 
swineherd's  son,  came  to  find  it,  of  Bloom-of-youth  and  the  black  and  crooked  woman 
who  spun  the  twelve  balls  of  wool,  of  the  Hen-wife's  son  and  the  princess  Bright-brow, 
of  the  sea-maiden  who  became  a  sea-swan  and  of  King  Labraid  Lore  and  his  treasure. 

Colum,  Padraic.  j  C727IS 

King  of  Ireland's  son;  illustrations  and  decorations  by  Willy 
Pogany.     Holt. 

How,  in  the  Ireland  of  long  ago,  Fedelma,  the  enchanter's  daughter,  was  carried 
away  by  the  king  of  the  Land  of  mist  and  of  the  adventures  which  befell  King  Connal's 
son  in  his  quest  for  her.  The  tale  telleth  also  of  Gilly  of  the  Goatskin,  who  was  later 
called  Flann,  and  of  Morag,  the  byre-maiden  who  sought  the  berries  from  the  fairy 
rowan  tree. 

Compton,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Amelia  j  398.097  C73 

(Williams)   Harrison). 
American  Indian  fairy  tales.     1895.     Dodd. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Snow  Bird  and  the  Water  Tiger,  and  other  American 
Indian  tales." 

Some  of  the  other  tales  are,  The  coyote  or  prairie  wolf. — How  Mad  Buffalo  fought 
the  thunder-bird. — The  bended  rocks. — White  Hawk,  the  Lazy. — The  magic  feather. — 
The  adventures  of  Living  Statue. —  Turtle-dove,  Sage-cock,  and  the  witch. —  White 
Cloud's  visit  to  the  Sun-prince. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  87 

Compton,  Margaret,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Amelia  (Williams)  Harrison). 

Snow  Bird  and  the  Water  Tiger,  and  other  American  Indian  tales. 
See  her  American  Indian  fairy  tales. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Comstock,  Mrs  Anna  (Botsford).  j  636  C73 

The  pet  book.     1014.     Comstock  Pub.  Co. 

"References"  at  the  end  of  many  of  the  chapters. 

How  to  take  care  of  pet  animals.  Tells  about  their  houses,  food  and  what  to  do 
for  them  when  ill.     Many  pictures. 

Comstock,  Mrs  Anna  (Botsford).  j  595.7  C738 

Ways  of  the  six-footed.     1903.     Ginn. 

Contents:  Pipers  and  minnesingers. — A  little  nomad. — A  sheep  in  wolf's  clothing. 
— The  perfect  socialism. — Two  mother  masons. — The  story  we  love  best. — A  dweller  in 
tents. — A  tactful  mother. — A  seine  maker. — Hermit  and  troubadour. 

Insect  stories  with  delightful  illustrations  from  nature. 

Comstock,  Fanny  Amanda.  j  793.1  D55C 

A  Dickens  dramatic  reader.     1913.     Ginn. 

Contents:  Scenes  from  Pickwick. — Scenes  from  Nicholas  Nickleby. — The  cricket  on 
the  hearth. — A  Christmas  carol. 

Comstock,  John  Henry.  j  595.7  C73 

Insect  life;  an  introduction  to  nature-study.     1902.     Appleton. 

Clear,  scientific  and  well  illustrated.  Includes  directions  for  collecting  and  pre- 
serving specimens. 

Comstock,  John  Henry,  &  Comstock,  Mrs  Anna  j  595.7  C73tn 

(Botsford). 
Manual  for  the  study  of  insects.     1901.    Comstock. 

A  general  work  on  entomology,  with  analytical  keys  to  the  orders  and  families  of 
insects.  Describes  the  common  species  and  tells  of  their  lives  and  transformations. 
Very  fully  illustrated.     Valuable  to  the  young  collector. 

Conway,  Agnes  Ethel,  &  Conway,  Sir  W.  M.  j  759  C76 

Children's  book  of  art.     1909.     Black. 

Contents:  Introductory. — The  thirteenth  century  in  Europe. — Richard  II. — The 
Van  Eycks. — The  renaissance. — Raphael. — The  renaissance  in  Venice. — The  renaissance 
in  the  north. — Rembrandt. — Peter  de  Hoogh  and  Cuyp. — Van  Dyck. — Velasquez. — Rey- 
nolds and  the  eighteenth  century. — Turner. — The  nineteenth  century. 

Cooke,  Arthur  O.  j  669.1  C77 

A  day  in  an  iron-works.  [1912.]  Frowde.  (Oxford  industrial 
readers.) 

Binder's  series  reads  "World  at  work." 

Author  takes  his  readers  on  a  visit  to  an  iron-works  in  South  Wales.  There  they 
learn  how  iron  is  prepared  for  use,  how  it  is  converted  into  steel  and  how  the  ingot  of 
steel  is  rolled  and  shaped  into  a  rail. 

Cooke,  Arthur  O.  j  685.32  C77 

A   day  with   leather  workers.      1912.     Frowde.      (Oxford   industrial 

readers.) 

Binder's  series  reads  "World  at  work." 

With  the  author  one  visits  an  English  tannery  and  a  boot-factory  and  learns  about 
the  preparation  of  leather  and  the  making  of  boots  and  shoes.     Illustrated. 

Cooke,  Arthur  O.  j  622.33  C77 

A  visit  to  a  coal  mine.  [1912.]  Frowde.  (Oxford  industrial 
readers.) 

Binder's  scries  reads  "World  at  work." 

The  coal-mine  visited  is  in  South  Wales  and  the  work  of  the  miners,  the  timbering 
and  ventilation  of  the  mine,  the  "picking"  and  washing  of  the  coal,  and  the  making  of 
coke  are  all  described.     Illustrated. 


88  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Cooke,  Arthur  O.  j  677.1  C77 

A  visit  to  a  cotton  mill.  [1912.]  Frowde.  (Oxford  industrial 
readers.) 

Binder's  series  reads  "World  at  work." 

"Follows  the  cotton  step  by  step  through  all  the  processes  by  which  it  is  converted, 
first  into  a  thread  of  yarn,  and  then  into  a  piece  of  calico  or  other  cotton  fabric." 
Chapter  2. 

Illustrated. 

Cooke,  Arthur  O.  j  677.2  C77 

A  visit  to  a  woollen  mill.  [1912.]  Frowde.  (Oxford  industrial 
readers.) 

Binder's  series  reads  "World  at  work." 

Tells  about  the  source  and  preparation  of  wool  and  follows  it  through  the  various 
processes  of  an  English  woollen  mill  until   it  has  become  a  piece  of  cloth.     Illustrated. 

Cooke,  Flora  J.  j  398  C77a 

Nature  myths  and  stories.     191Q.     Flanagan. 

Stories  about  the  rainbow  and  the  clouds,  insects,  birds,  animals,  flowers  and  trees. 
For  the  younger  children. 

Cooke,  John  Esten.  j  975.5  C77 

Stories  of  the  Old  Dominion.  1897.  Amer.  Book  Co. 
Incidents  in  the  annals  of  the  "Old  Dominion."  Some  of  the  titles  are,  Adven- 
tures of  Capt.  John  Smith. — The  great  rebellion  in  Virginia. — The  knights  of  the  Golden 
Horseshoe. — Washington  in  the  wilderness. — Braddock  and  his  sash. — Point  Pleasant 
and  the  death  of  Cornstalk. — Lord  Dunmore  and  the  gunpowder. — Morgan,  the  "Thun- 
derbolt of  the  Revolution." 

Coolidge,  Susan,  {pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783D 

Barberry  bush,  and  other  stories.     Little. 

Other  stories :  The  lady  in  white  satin. — Angels  unawares. — In  the  cathedral. — The 
engineer's   story. — A  quiet   girl. — What  the   pudding   brought. — A   chance   word. — Nika. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783C 

Clover.     Little. 

Fourth  in  the  "Katy  did"  series,  in  which  Clover  and  Phil  Carr  go  to  Colorado  and 
spend  a  winter  in  that  wonderful  land  of  gorges  and  canons  and  rainbow-colored  rocks. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783cr 

Cross  Patch,  and  other  stories.     Little. 

Other  stories:  Little  Tommy  Tucker. — "Hark!  Hark!" — Miss  Jane. — The  old 
woman  who  lived  in  the  shoe. — Simple  Simon. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783e 

Eyebright.     Little. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"   v.6,   Feb.-Oct.    1879. 

Story  of  a  little  girl  who  goes  with  her  father  to  live  on  a  small  island  off  the  coast 
of  Maine. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783g 

Guernsey  Lily;  or,  How  the  feud  was  healed.     Little. 

About  a  young  English  girl's  visit  to  the  Channel  islands  and  how  she  helped  to 
heal  a  family  feud. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783i 

In  the  High  Valley;  the  last  of  the  Katy  did  series.     Little. 

About  an  English  girl  who  left  her  Devonshire  home  by  the  sea  and  came  to  live 
with  her  brother  in  the  "High  Valley"  among  the  Colorado  mountains.  All  the  members 
of  the  Carr  family  are  in  the  story. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783J 

Just  sixteen.     Little. 

Contents:  A  little  knight  of  labor.— Snowy  Peter.— The  Do  Something  Society.— 
Who  ate  the  queen's  luncheon? — The  shipwrecked  cologne-bottle. — Under  a_  syringa 
bush. — Two  girls;  two  parties. — The  pink  sweetmeat.— Etelka's  choice. — The  fir  cones. 
— A  balsam  pillow. — Colonel  Wheeler. — Ninety-three  and  ninety-four. — The  sorrows  of 
Felicia. — Imprisoned. — A  child  of  the  sea  folk. 
Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783I 

Little  country  girl.     Little. 

A  little  country  girl  spends  a  summer  with  her  fashionable  cousins  in  Newport. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783111 

Mischief's  Thanksgiving,  and  other  stories.     Little. 

Other  stories:  Little  Roger's  night  in  the  church. — The  world  within  the  wall. — 
How  the  umbrella  ran  away  with  Ellie. — Nanny's  substitute. — On  top  of  the  ark. — 
Ricket's  valentine. — Christie. 

Contains  also  sketches   of   Fredrika   Bremer,   Jenny   Lind  and   other  women   of  the 
North. 
Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783ne 

New-year's  bargain.     Little. 

Each  of  the  12  months  tells  the  children  a  story.  There  are  fairy  stories,  a  bear 
story   and    stories   about   little   girls. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783ni 

Nine  little  goslings.     Little. 

Contents:  Curly  locks. — Goosey,  goosey  gander. — Little  Bo-peep. — Mistress  Mary. 
— Lady  bird. — One,  two,  buckle  my  shoe. — Ride  a  cock-horse. — Lady  Queen  Anne. — Up, 
up,  up,  and  down,  down,  down-y. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783n 

Not  quite  eighteen.     Little. 

Contents:  How  Bunny  brought  good  luck. — A  bit  of  wilfulness. — The  wolves  of  St. 
Gervas. — Three  little  candles. — Uncle  and  aunt. — The  corn-ball  money. — The  prize  girl 
of  the  harnessing  class. — Dolly  Phone. — A  nursery  tyrant. — What  the  pink  flamingo  did. 
— Two  pairs  of  eyes. — The  pony  that  kept  the  store. — Pink  and  scarlet. — Dolly's  lesson. 
— A  blessing  in  disguise.— A  granted  wish. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783r 

Round  dozen.     Little. 

Contents:  The  little  white  door. — Little  Karen  and  her  baby. — Helen's  Thanks- 
giving.— At  Fiesole. — Queen  Blossom. — A  small  beginning. — The  secret  door. — The  two 
wishes. — Blue  and  pink. — A  fortunate  misfortune. — Toinette  and  the  elves. — Jean's 
money  and  what  it  bought. — How  the  storks  came  and  went. 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783wha 

What  Katy  did.     Little. 

"Katy  planned  to  do  some  wonderful  things  and  in  the  end  did  none  of  them,  but 
something  quite  different, — something  she  did  not  like  at  all  at  first,  but  which  on  the 
whole  was  a  great  deal  better  than  any  of  the  doings  she  had  dreamed  about." 

Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C783W 

What  Katy  did  at  school.     Little. 

Tells  of  the  boarding-school  days  of  Katy  and  Clover  Carr.     Sequel  to  "What  Katy 
did." 
Coolidge,  Susan,  (pseud,  of  Sarah  Chauncey  Woolsey).  j  C?83wh 

What  Katy  did  next.     Little. 

How  Katy  Carr  went  to  Europe.     Third  in  the  "Katy  did"  series. 
Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787a 

Afloat  and  ashore.    Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

A  sea  talc.  There  are  capture  and  recapture,  shipwreck,  a  desert  island,  fights  with 
the  savages  of  the  Pacific  and  other  adventures.  The  story  is  continued  in  "Miles 
Wallingford." 


go  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C7876! 

Deerslayer.  Mohawk  ed.  Putnam.  (Leatherstocking  tales.) 
Tale  of  warfare  in  New  York  between  the  white  settlers  and  the  crafty  Iroquois. 
It  is  the  opening  story  of  the  series,  called  from  the  pioneer  hero,  the  "Leatherstocking 
tales,"  and  it  is  succeeded  by  "The  last  of  the  Mohicans,"  "The  Pathfinder,"  "The  pio- 
neers," "The  prairie,"  in  the  order  named.  The  stories  are  full  of  adventure  and  de- 
scriptions of  forest  life  and  scenery. 

Cooper,  James   Fenimore.  j   C787I 

Last  of  the  Mohicans.    Holt.     (Leatherstocking  tales.) 

Story  of  the  French  and  Indian  war.  It  tells  of  the  siege  of  Fort  William  Henry, 
the  capture  of  two  young  girls  by  the  Indians  and  the  adventures  of  an  English  officer 
while  trying  to  rescue  them.  Hawkeye  the  scout  and  Uncas,  the  last  of  the  Mohicans, 
are  two  of  the  other  characters.     Illustrated  by  E.   Boyd  Smith. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore. 
Leatherstocking  tales. 

Deerslayer j    C787d 

Last  of  the  Mohicans j   C787I 

Pathfinder j   C787pa 

Pioneers j   C787P 

Prairie j   C787pr 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787mi 

Miles  Wallingford;  sequel  to  Afloat  and  ashore.  Mohawk  ed. 
Putnam. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787pa 

Pathfinder.    Mohawk  ed.     Putnam.     (Leatherstocking  tales.) 

Third  in  the  "Leatherstocking"  series.  Adventures  in  the  forest.  Hawkeye  reap- 
pears in  the  war  of  '56  in  company  with  his  Mohican  friend. 

Cooper,  James   Fenimore.  j   C787pi 

Pilot.    Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

Story  of  a  secret  expedition  to  the  English  coast.  Founded  on  the  daring  exploits 
of  Paul  Jones. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787P 

Pioneers.    Mohawk  ed.     Putnam.     (Leatherstocking  tales.) 

Story  of  pioneer  life  on  the  banks  of  Lake  Otsego.  Fourth  in  the  series  of  "Leather- 
stocking   tales." 

Cooper,  James   Fenimore.  j  C787pr 

Prairie.     Mohawk  ed.     Putnam.     (Leatherstocking  tales.) 

This  book  closes  the  career  of  Hawkeye,  or  Leatherstocking.  Driven  west  by  the 
inroads  of  civilization,  he  has  ceased  to  be  the  hunter  and  the  warrior  and  has  become 
a  trapper  on  the  upper  Missouri. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787r 

Red  Rover.    Mohawk  ed.    Putnam. 

Tale  of  adventure  on  the  sea  at  the  time  of  the  French  and  Indian  war. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787re 

Redskins.     Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

The  manuscript  of  Hugh  Littlepage,  jr.,  in  which  he  relates  how  he  went  to  Ravens- 
nest  in  disguise  and  what  happened  there  during  the  anti-rent  riots  in  New  York. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787S 

Sea  lions.    Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

Story  of  two  rival  American  schooners,  each  bearing  the  name  of  "Sea  Lion"  and 
sailing  on  a  voyage  of  daring  adventure  towards  the   southern  pole. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  91 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787SP 

Spy.    Mohawk  ed.    Putnam. 

Story  of  the  Revolution  and  the  "neutral  grounds"  around  White  Plains.  The  hero, 
the  spy,  is  a  cool,  shrewd,  fearless  man,  who  is  employed  by  Gen.  Washington  in 
service  which  involves  great  personal  hazard. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787t 

Two  admirals.     Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

Exploits  of  two  English  naval  officers  off  the  coast  of  Devonshire  in  the  time  of 
the  Young  Pretender. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787W 

Water-witch.     Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

Narrates  the  attempt  of  a  king's  officer  to  capture  the  Water-witch,  a  smuggling 
brigantine,  and  her  master,  the  notorious  "Skimmer  of  the  seas."  The  scene  of  the 
story  is  the  harbor  of  New  York  and  the  near-by  waters. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C787we 

Wept  of  Wish-ton-wish.     Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

An  Indian  attack  on  a  family  of  Puritan  settlers  in  Connecticut;  the  disappearance 
of  the  little  daughter,  "the  Wept  of  Wish-ton-wish,"  and  King  Philip's  war  are  the 
chief  events  of  the  story. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j   C787wi 

Wing-and-wing.     Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

The  hero  is  one  Raoul  Yvard,  the  daring  commander  of  a  French  privateer  maneu- 
vering in   Mediterranean  waters. 

Cooper,  James  Fenimore.  j  C78?wy 

Wyandotte.     Mohawk  ed.     Putnam. 

Story  of  the  frontier  in  the  time  of  the  Revolution  and  of  the  Indian  attack  on  the 
"Hutted  Knoll." 

Cooper,  Samuel  Williams.  j  C78gt 

Think  and  thank;  a  tale.    Jewish  Publication  Soc.  of  America. 
Story  of  the  childhood  of  Sir  Moses  Montefiore,  the  great  Jewish   financier  and 

philanthropist. 

Copenhagen,  Foreningen  til  Folkedansens  Fremme.  j  793.3  C79d 

Danish  folk  dances;  descriptions  of  folk  dances;  tr.  by  Viggo 
Bovbjerg.     1917.     Chicago  School  of  Civics  and  Philanthropy. 

Copenhagen,  Foreningen  til  Folkedansens  Fremme.  qj  793.3  C79 

Music  for  Danish  folk  dances;  comp.  by  Viggo  Bovbjerg,  from 
books  1  and  2  pub.  by  the  Danish  Folk  Dance  Society,  f  1918.]  Chi- 
cago School  of  Civics  and  Philanthropy. 

Corbin,  Thomas  W.  j  609  C81 

Mechanical  inventions  of  to-day;  interesting  descriptions  of  mod- 
ern mechanical  inventions  told  in  non-technical  language.     1912.     Lip- 

pincott. 

Describes  the  application  of  inventions  to  various  industries.  Chapters  on  inven- 
tors' drawings,  useless  inventions  and  effects  of  mechanical  invention. 

Cornish,  Charles  John.  j  591-5  C82a 

Animals  at  work  and  play;  their  activities  and  emotions.  1904. 
Seeley. 

Scientific  but  readable  descriptions  of  the  every-day  life  of  animals.  Particularly 
entertaining  are  the  chapters  on   animal   etiquette,   animals'   toilettes   and   animals'  beds. 


92  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Cornish,  Charles  John,  ed.  qj  590  C82 

Living  animals  of  the  world;  a  popular  natural  history.  24  pts.  in 
2v.     [1902.]     Hutchinson. 

v.i.     Mammals. 

v.2.  Birds. — Reptiles  and  amphibians. — Fishes. — Jointed  animals. — Shell-fish,  lamp- 
shells,  sea-urchins,  star-fishes,  moss-animals,  worms,   corals,   jelly-fishes  and  sponges. 

Cornman,  Oliver  Perry,  &  Gerson,  Oscar.  j  910  C82a2 

Geography  primer   [Allegheny  county  edition],     1906.     Hinds. 

Contains  an  introductory  chapter  on  Pittsburgh  and  supplementary  chapters  on 
Pennsylvania  and  Allegheny  county. 

The  same  [Pittsburg  edition].     1905.    Hinds j  910  C82 

Cotes,  Mrs  Everard.    See  Duncan,  Sara  Jeannette. 

Couch,  Sir  Arthur  Thomas  Quiller.  j  822.33  H9 

Historical  tales  from  Shakespeare.     1900.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Coriolanus. — Julius  Caesar. — King  John. — King  Richard  II. — King  Henry 
IV. — King  Henry  V. — King  Henry  VI. — King  Richard  III. 

Couch,  Sir  Arthur  Thomas  Quiller,  comp.  j  821.08  C830 

Oxford  book  of  English  verse,  1250-1900.  1906.  Oxford  University 
Press. 

This  collection  ranges  from  the  beginnings  of  English  verse  down  to  the  end  of  the 
19th  century.     Includes  some  American  verse. 

Couch,  Sir  Arthur  Thomas  Quiller.  j  920  C83 

The   roll   call   of  honour;    a   new  book   of  golden   deeds.      [191 1.] 

Nelson. 

Contents:  Introduction. — Bolivar. — John  Brown. — Abraham  Lincoln. — Garibaldi. — 
David   Livingstone. — Florence   Nightingale. — Pasteur. — Gordon. — Father    Damien. 

Couch,  Sir  Arthur  Thomas  Quiller,  ed.  qj  398  C83 

The  sleeping  beauty,  and  other  fairy  tales  from  the  old  French; 
retold  by  Sir  Arthur  Quiller-Couch,  illustrated  by  Edmund  Dulac. 
[1910.]     Hodder. 

Other  tales:     Blue  Beard. — Cinderella. — Beauty  and  the  beast. 

"Beauty  and  the  beast"  was  originally  written  by  Madame  de  Villeneuve  and  the 
other  three  stories  by  Charles  Perrault. 

Coussens,  Penrhyn  Wingfield,  comp.  j  398  C84 

Child's  book  of  stories,  with  pictures  by  J.  W.  Smith.  191 1.  Duf- 
field. 

Favorite  fairy  tales  with  10  full-page  illustrations  in  color. 

Coussens,  Penrhyn  Wingfield,  comp.  j  821.08  C84 

Poems  children  love;  a  collection  of  poems  arranged  for  children 

and  young  people  of  various  ages.     1908.     Dodge. 

More  than  200  poems   arranged  in  three   divisions:    for  the  tiny  tots;   for   young 

children;  for  the  older  ones. 

Cox,  Sir  George  William.  j  292  C85 

Tales  of  ancient  Greece.     1905.     McClurg. 

Combines  "Tales  of  Greek  mythology,"  "Gods  and  heroes"  and  "Tales  of  Thebes 
and  Argos."     Introduction  traces  each  story  to  its  earliest  known  form. 

Cox,  John  Harrington,  tr.  j  398.25  G24 

Knight  of  Arthur's  court;  or,  The  tale  of  Sir  Gawain  and  the 
Green  Knight;  tr.  and  adapted  for  school  use.     1910.     Little. 

How  Arthur  the  king  and  his  knights  kept  Christmas  at  Camelot,  of  the  most  curious 
challenge  of  the  Green  Knight  and  Sir  Gawain's  adventure  at  the  Green  chapel. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  93 


Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C853a 

Another  Brownie  book.     Century. 

Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C853ba 

Brownies  abroad.     Century. 

Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C853bro 

Brownies  around  the  world.     Century. 

Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C8s3br 

Brownies  at  home.     Century. 

Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C853DP 

Brownies  in  the  Philippines.     Century. 

Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C853DO 

Brownies'  latest  adventures.     Century. 

Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C853b 

Brownies,  their  book.     Century. 

Cox,  Palmer.  qj  C853bu 

Brownies  through  the  Union.     Century. 

The  "Brownies"  first  saw  the  light  in  the  pages  of  "St.  Nicholas."  Hordes  of 
grotesque  and  comical  little  elves  swarm  on  every  page,  intent  on  mischief  or  merry- 
making. Rhymed  stories  accompany  the  illustrations,  but  the  pictures  are  the  inter- 
esting part. 

Coxhead,  Margaret  Duncan.  j  972  C85 

Mexico,  with  reproductions  in  colour  of  original  drawings  by  J.  H. 
Robinson.     [1909.]     Stokes.     (Romance  of  history.) 

Account  of  the  conquest  of  Mexico  by  Cortes.  The  picturesque  scenes  and  roman- 
tic incidents  of  the  campaign,  the  defeats  and  victories  of  the  adventurers  are  vividly 
described. 

Craddock,  Charles  Egbert,  {pseud,  of  Mary  Noailles  j  C8s8do 

Murfree). 
Down  the  ravine.     Houghton. 

Mysterious  disappearance  of  the  grant  of  the  "gold-mine"  ravine  and  the  trouble  it 
causes;  a  story  of  boy  life  in  the  Tennessee  mountains. 

Craddock,  Charles  Egbert,  {pseud,  of  Mary  Noailles  j  C8s8st 

Murfree). 
Story  of  old  Fort  Loudon.    Macmillan. 

An  historical  novel  dealing  with  an  episode  of  the  French  and  Indian  war:  the 
repulse  of  Montgomery's  expedition  and  the  capture  of  Fort  Loudon  on  the  Tennessee 
river  by  the  Cherokees  in  1760. 

Cragin,  Belle  S.  j  595-7  C85 

Our  insect  friends  and  foes;   how  to   collect,   preserve   and  study 

them.     1899.     Putnam. 

"Books   for  reference,"   p. 339-341. 

Describes  the  common  insects  found  in  the  country  east  of  the  Rocky  mountains  and 

north  of  the  Gulf  states.     Scientific  names  are  given  of  such  insects  as  are  illustrated 

and  there  is  a  list  of  popular  names  and  their  scientific  equivalents. 

Craik,  Mrs  Dinah  Maria   (Mulock).  j  C863a 

Adventures  of  a  brownie.     Harper. 

The  mystifying  tale  of  a  house  brownie  who  lived  in  a  coal  cellar. 


94  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Craik,  Mrs  Dinah  Maria  (Mulock).  j  398  C86 

Fairy  book;  the  best  popular  stories  selected  and  rendered  anew. 
1902.     Harper. 

Old  English  tales,  such  as  Jack  the  Giant-killer  and  Tom  Thumb,  stories  from  Per- 
rault  and  Madame  d'Aulnoy,   and  other  delightful   and  time-honored   fairy   tales. 

The  same;  with  32  illustrations  in  colour  by  Warwick  Goble. 

1913.     Macmillan qj  398  C86a 

Craik,  Mrs  Dinah  Maria  (Mulock).  j  C863J 

John  Halifax,  gentleman.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

A  famous  story  of  English  domestic  life,  introducing  a  striking  picture  of  the  revolt 
of  factory  hands  against  the  substitution  of  machinery  for  manual  labor.  The  hero  is 
a  poor  lad  who  wins  success  and  the  right  to  bear  "without  abuse,  the  grand  old  name 
of  Gentleman." 

Craik,  Mrs  Dinah  Maria  (Mulock).  j  C863H 

Little  lame  prince.     Harper;  Rand. 

"Story  of  Prince  Dolor  of  Nomansland  who  floated  out  of  Hopeless  Tower  on  the 
wonderful  traveling  cloak  of  Imagination."     Prentice  &  Power's  A   children's  library. 

Craik,  Mrs  Dinah  Maria  (Mulock).  j  C863lit 

Little  Sunshine's  holiday.     Page. 

"Little  Sunshine"  is  a  happy  three-year-old  child,  who  is  taken  by  her  parents  to 
Scotland  on  a  holiday  trip  of  a  month. 

Craik,  Georgiana  Marion,  afterward  Mrs  May.  j  C8632S 

So-fat  and  Mew-mew,  with  an  introduction  by  Lucy  Wheelock. 
Heath. 

"Account  of  two  little  animal  friends,  a  cat  and  dog,  which  will  please  small  chil- 
dren who  are  outgrowing  Mother  Goose."     Arnold's  Mother's  list  of  books  for  children. 

Cram,  William  Everett.  j  599  C86 

Little  beasts  of  field  &  wood.     1901.     Small. 

Contents:  Little  beasts  and  how  to  find  them. — -Foxes. — -Weasels. — Swimmers. — 
Squirrels. 

Cram,  William  Everett.  j  599  C86m 

More  little  beasts  of  field  and  wood.     1912.     Small. 

Deer,  lynxes,  rabbits,  woodchucks,  chipmunks,  raccoons,  porcupines,  moles  and  bats 
are  among  the  animals  whose  ways  are  described. 

Crane,  Walter.  j  784.8  C86b 

Baby's  bouquet;  a  fresh  bunch  of  old  rhymes  &  tunes  arranged  and 

decorated  by  Walter  Crane,  tunes  collected  by  L.  C.     [1878.]     Warne. 

Companion  to   "The  baby's  opera." 

Partial  contents:  Polly  put  the  kettle  on. — Hot  cross  buns. — The  old  woman  of 
Norwich. — Buy  a  broom. — Lucy  Locket. — The  old  man  in  leather. — Charley  over  the 
water. — The  three  little  kittens. 

Crane,  Walter.  j  784.8  C86ba 

Baby's  opera;  a  book  of  old  rhymes,  with  new  dresses  by  Walter 
Crane,  music  by  the  earliest  masters.     [1876.]     Warne. 

Colored  pictures. 

Crane,  Walter.  j  398.91  A25C 

Baby's  own  ^Esop;  being  the  Fables  condensed  in  rhyme  with  por- 
table morals  pictorially  pointed  by  Walter  Crane.     1887.     Warne. 
Crane,  Walter.  qj  398  C867b 

Beauty  and  the  beast  picture  book.  Lane.  (Walter  Crane's  picture 
books.) 

Contents:     Beauty  and  the  beast. — The  frog  prince. — The  hind  in  the  wood. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  95 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  398  C867 

Bluebeard's  picture  book.     Lane.     (Walter  Crane's  picture  books.) 

Contents:     Bluebeard. — The  sleeping  beauty. — Baby's  own  alphabet. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  C867ib 

Buckle  my  shoe  picture  book,  with  the  original  coloured  pictures 
and  a  preface  &  new  designs  by  Walter  Crane.  Lane.  (Walter  Crane's 
picture  books.) 

Contents:  One,  two,  buckle  my  shoe. — A  gaping-wide-mouth- waddling  frog. — My 
mother. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  398  C867C 

Cinderella's  picture  book.     Lane.     (Walter  Crane's  picture  books.) 
Contents:     Cinderella. — Puss   in  boots. — Valentine  &  Orson. 
Crane,  Walter.  qj  C86711 

A  flower  wedding  described  by  two  wallflowers;  decorated  by  Wal- 
ter Crane.     Cassell. 

Rhymes  about  the  flowers,  with  40  pages  of  designs  printed  in  colors. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  C86711I 

Flowers  from  Shakespeare's  garden;  a  posy  from  the  plays;  pic- 
tured by  Walter  Crane.     Cassell. 

Quotations  about  flowers  from   Shakespeare's  plays,  with  full-page  colored  pictures. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  C867ig 

Goody  Two  Shoes  picture  book.  Lane.  (Walter  Crane's  picture 
books.) 

Contents:     Goody  Two  Shoes. — Aladdin. — The  yellow  dwarf. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  C867im 

A  masque  of  days,  from  the  Last  essays  of  Elia;  newly  dressed  & 
decorated  by  Walter  Crane.     Cassell. 

Tells  how  the  New-  Year,  coming  of  age,  gave  a  dinner  party,  to  which  all  the  days 
in  the  year  were  invited.     Illustrated  with   delightful   colored  pictures. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  398  C867m 

Mother  Hubbard,  her  picture  book.  Lane.  (Walter  Crane's  pic- 
ture books.) 

Contents:     Mother  Hubbard. — The  three  bears. — The  absurd  A.  B.  C. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  398  C867r 

Red  Riding  Hood's  picture  book.  Lane.  (Walter  Crane's  picture 
books.) 

Contents:     Little   Red  Riding   Hood. — Jack   and  the   beanstalk. — The   forty   thieves. 

Crane,  Walter.  qj  C867it 

This  little   pig,   his  picture   book.     Lane.      (Walter   Crane's   picture 

books.) 

Contents:     This  little   pig. — The  fairy  ship. — King   Luckii 

Cravens,  Frances.  j  92  L7i5cr 

Story  of  Lincoln,  for  children.     1900.     Public  School  Pub.  Co. 
Very  simply  and  briefly  told. 

Crawshaw,  Fred  Duane.  j  684  C87a 

Problems  in  furniture  making.  Ed.4,  rev.  1912.  Manual  Arts 
Press. 

Collection  of  working  drawings  of  simple  furniture,  with  brief  hints  on  design,  con- 
struction and  finishing.     Intended  for  manual  training  students  and  amateurs. 


96  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Creighton,  Mrs  Louise  Hume  (von  Glehn).  j  940  C87 

Heroes  of  European  history.     1906.     Longmans. 

Short  sketches  of  great  people  and  events  from  the  time  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans 
to  that  of  Victor  Emmanuel  and  Bismarck,  the  aim  being  to  give  an  idea  of  the  gen- 
eral progress  of  European  history  and  of  its  continuity. 

Creighton,  Mrs  Louise  Hume  (von  Glehn).  j  942  C8761 

Stories  from  English  history.     1889.     Longmans. 

Dramatic  episodes,  rather  than  connected  history. 

Partial  contents:  The  legend  of  the  preservation  of  Beverley. — Hereward. — The 
siege  of  Mount  St.  Michael. — King  Richard's  escape  from  the  Turks. — A  Scottish  raid. 
— The  fight  of  the  Revenge. — The  gunpowder  plot. — -The  massacre  of  Glencoe. — The 
chevalier  Charles  Edward.— The  siege  of  Lucknow. 

Crichton,  Mrs  F.  E.  j  C883P 

Peep-in-the-World.     Longmans. 

A  little  English  girl,  "Peep-in-the-World,"  spends  a  year  at  her  uncle's  German 
castle.  She  makes  friends  with  the  village  children  and  they  form  an  Order  of  Faith- 
fulness, with  Knut,  the  dwarf  cobbler  of  the  forest,  for  armorer,  and  play  at  being 
knights  of  old.  The  tournament  and  the  Christmas  eve  festivities  are  some  of  her  es- 
pecially good  times. 

Crompton,   Frances  E.  j   C8gig 

Gentle  heritage.     Dutton. 

About  five  children  who  "imagined  things"  and  how  they  sought  and  found  the 
"bogy." 

Crompton,  Frances  E.  j  C8gim 

Master  Bartlemy;  or,  The  thankful  heart.     Dutton. 

How  the  "House  of  the  Thankful  Heart"  came  to  be  re-endowed  for  the  service  of 
God's  poor  forever. 

Cross,  Mrs  Mary  Ann  (Evans).     See  Eliot,  George,  pseud. 

Crothers,  Samuel  McChord.  j  C8g5m 

Miss  Muffet's  Christmas  party.     Houghton. 

Some  of  the  guests  of  the  Christmas  party  are  Alice  and  the  Cheshire  cat,  little  Bo- 
peep,  Aladdin,  Sindbad  the  Sailor,  Uncle  Remus  and  the  "Little  boy." 

Crow,  Mrs  Martha  (Foote).  j  92  S892C 

Harriet  Beecher  Stowe;  a  biography  for  girls.     1913.     Appleton. 

"Chronological  outline  of  Mrs  Stowe's  life,"  p. 9-12;  "List  of  Mrs  Stowe's  books," 
P-305-306. 

Gives  a  good  picture  of  a  girl's  life  in  New  England  in  the  early  part  of  the  19th 
century.  Also  tells  of  her  later  western  home,  of  the  books  she  loved,  her  first  stories 
and  the  great  success  of  "Uncle  Tom's  cabin." 

Crow,  Mrs  Martha  (Foote).  j  92  L144C 

Lafayette.     1916.     Macmillan.     (True  stories  of  great  Americans.) 

Short  biography,  dwelling  particularly  on  Lafayette's  service  as  a  boy  general  in 
the  Revolutionary  war,  his  imprisonment  in  an  Austrian  fortress  and  the  attempted 
rescue,  and  the  triumphal  tour  through  the  United  States  in  1824. 

Crozier,  Gladys  Beattie.  j  790  C89 

Children's  parties.     [1913.]     Routledge. 

New  ideas  for  indoor  and  outdoor  parties  and  pastimes,  especially  for  the  Christmas 
holidays.     Gives  suggestions  for  fancy  dress  costumes,  games  and  refreshments. 

Crozier,  Gladys  Beattie.  j  793  C89 

Indoor  games  for  children.      [1913.]      Routledge. 

Binder's  title  reads  "Children's  indoor  games." 

Partial  contents:  A  witch  party  for  the  nursery. — A  Hallow-e'en  revel.— Nursery 
sweetmaking. — Musical  games  for  a  children's  party. — A  children's  competition  tea- 
party. — Living  statuary  tableaux. — An  intelligence  tea-party. — An  impromptu  nursery  or 
schoolroom  masquerade. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  97 

Cruikshank,  George,  ed.  j  398  C89 

Cruikshank  fairy-book.     1897.     Putnam. 

Four  old-fashioned  fairy  tales:  Puss  in  boots. — Jack  and  the  beanstalk. — Hop-o'- 
my-Thumb. — Cinderella,  retold  and  illustrated  by  the  great  English  artist,  George  Cruik- 
shank. 

Crump,  Irving.  j  614.84  C89 

Boys'  book  of  firemen.     1916.    Dodd. 

Begins  with  an  account  of  a  big  fire  in  New  York.  Other  chapters  describe  the 
work  and  training  of  the  enginemen,  the  hook  and  ladder  boys,  the  fire  patrol,  the  "mile 
a  minute  rescue  men"   and  the  marine   fire  fighting   force. 

Crump,  Irving.  j  351.74  C89 

Boys'  book  of  mounted  police.     1917.     Dodd. 

About  the  duties,  training  and  heroic  service  of  the  Pennsylvania  "blue  coats,"  the 
state  troopers  of  New  York,  the  Texas  and  Arizona  rangers,  the  Mexican  rurales  and 
the  royal  Northwest  mounted  police. 

Crump,  Irving.  j  352.2  C89 

Boys'  book  of  policemen.     1917.     Dodd. 

Describes  the  training  and  work  of  the  patrolmen,  "the  six-foot  guards  of  traffic." 
the  mounted  police,  the  cycle  corps,  the  dog  patrol,  the  fighting  marine  division  and  the 
secret  service   men.      Includes  many  thrilling  anecdotes. 

Cruse,  Amy.  j  92  S848C 

Robert  Louis  Stevenson.     1915.     Stokes.     (Heroes  of  all  time.) 
Cuchulain.  j  398.2  C91 

Boys'  Cuchulain;  heroic  legends  of  Ireland;  comp.  by  Eleanor  Hull. 
[1910.]     Crowell. 

"Notes  on  the  sources,"  p. 275-279. 

Stories  of  the  Irish  hero,  called  "the  Hound  of  Ulster;"  how,  when  a  little  child, 
he  fought  with  full-grown  warriors  and  mastered  them;  how  he  slew  a  huge  hound  and 
gained  the  name  Cuchulain;  of  his  adventures  in  Shadow-land  and  of  how  for  an  entire 
winter  alone  and  unaided  he  held  the  frontier  of  Ulster  against  the  hosts  of  Queen 
Meave. 

"Though  the  span  of  my  life  were  but  for  a  day,"  said  Cuchulain,  "little  should  I 
reck  of  that,  if  but  my  noble  deeds  might  be  remembered  among  men." 

Curtis,  Alice  Turner.  j  Cg33a 

Anne  Nelson,  a  little  maid  of  Province  town.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Mntherless  little  Anne,  whose  father  has  been  captured  by  the  British,  finds  a  home 
and  friends  in  Provincetown  and  takes  an  unexpected  journey.  A  story  of  Revolution- 
ary days. 

Curtis,  Alice  Turner.  j  C933U 

A  little  maid  of  Massachusetts  colony.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

This  second  "Anne  Nelson"  story  tells  of  an  eventful  journey  to  Boston  anil  how 
Anne  helped  to  capture  an  English  privateer. 

Curtis,  Alice  Turner.  j  C933lm 

A  little  maid  of  Narragansett  bay.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Penelope  Balfour  and  her  brother  Ted  live  on  a  little  farm  in  Rhode  Island  with 
their  mother,  while  their  father  is  serving  his  country  in  the  War  for  independence, 
Through  her  bravery  and  presence  of  mind  Penelope  also  helps  the  Americans  in  their 
struggle  for  freedom. 

Curtis,  Alice  Turner. 

A  little  maid  of  Province  town.     See  her  Anne  Nelson. 
Same  work  published   under  both   titles. 

Curtis,  Alice  Turner.  j  C933I 

Little  runaways.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

The  adopting  of  Catherine  and   Phinny,   two  little   runaways   from  an  orphanage, 


98  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Curtis,  Alice  Turner.  j  C933S 

Story  of  cotton.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

A  boy  and  a  girl  on  their  father's  plantation  in  South  Carolina  learn  about  the  cul- 
tivating, picking  and  ginning  of  cotton.  Afterward  Philip  visits  a  mill  in  Columbia  and 
sees  the  cotton  made  into  yarn  and  woven  into  cloth. 

Curtis,  Anna  Chandler.  j  904  C93 

Magic  pictures  of  the  long  ago;  stories  of  the  peoples  of  many 
lands.     1918.     Holt. 

Contents:  The  fair  princess  of  Bekhten;  or,  The  kindness  of  the  Egyptian  moon- 
god;  a  story  of  Egypt. — Little  people  from  Tanagra;  a  story  of  Greece. — The  city  of 
the  seven  hills;  a  story  of  Rome. — Joan,  maid  of  Orleans,  the  French  maid  who  saved 
her  country;  a  story  of  France. — Bayard  the  brave;  or,  The  knight  without  fear  and 
without  reproach;  a  story  of  France. — King  Lear  and  his  daughters;  a  story  of  Eng- 
land.— Little  Federigo  Gonzaga;  a  story  of  Italy. — The  Field  of  the  Cloth  of  Gold;  a 
story  of  France  and  of  England. — The  feast  of  St.  Nicholas;  a  story  of  Holland. — 
The  story  of  a  little  Quaker  boy,   Benjamin  West;  a  story  of  America. 

Stories  told  at  the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art,  New  York  city.  Illustrations 
from  works  of  art  and  old  manuscri-pts. 

-Curtis,  Edward  S.  j  970.1  C93 

Indian  days  of  the  long  ago.  1915.  World  Book  Co.  (Indian  life 
and  Indian  lore.) 

Through  the  experiences  of  Kukusim,  son  of  an  Indian  chief,  one  learns  of  the 
life  and  customs  of  the  Salish  Indians  and  other  Western  tribes  before  the  coming  of 
the  white  man.  Illustrated  with  photographs  by  the  author  and  drawings  by  F.  N.  Wil- 
son. 

Custer,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Bacon).  j  92  Cg44cb 

"Boots  and  saddles;"  or,  Life  in  Dakota  with  Gen.  Custer.  1901. 
Harper. 

Story  of  army  life,  describing  many  fights  with  the  Indians  and  ending  with  that 
last  tragic  battle  of  the  igth  cavalry  with  the  Sioux. 

"A  book  breezy  with  open  air  and  cheery  with  horse   and  hound."     Nation,  1885. 

Custer,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Bacon).  j  92  C944CU 

Boy  general;  story  of  the  life  of  George  A.  Custer;  ed.  by  M.  E. 
Burt.     1901.     Scribner. 

Describes  the  perilous  adventures,  the  courage  and  the  sacrifices  of  the  daring 
troopers  of  the  plains.  Condensed  from  "Tenting  on  the  plains,"  "Following  the 
guidon"  and  "Boots  and  saddles." 

Custer,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Bacon).  -  j  92  Cg44cf 

Following  the  guidon.     1890.     Harper. 

Experiences  of  army  life  on  the  plains. 

Custer,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Bacon).  j  92  Cg44ct 

Tenting  on  the  plains;  or,  Gen.  Custer  in  Kansas  and  Texas.  1895. 
Harper. 

Biographical  sketch  of  George  A.  Custer,  p.  1-25. 

Military  life  in  Texas  and  Kansas  during  the  two  years  immediately  following  the 
Civil  war. 

"Its  public  value  consists  in  its  presentation  of  the  constant  trials  and  privations,  as 
well  as  of  more  heroic  adventures,  that  befell  the  troops  when  'there  was  no  wild  clamor 
of  war  to  enable  them  to  forget  the  absence  of  the  commonest  necessities  of  existence.'  " 
Nation,  1888. 

Cutter,  Mrs  Sarah  J.  com  p.  j  793  C95 

Conundrums,  riddles,  puzzles  and  games.     1896.     Paul. 

Gives  more  than  1,000  conundrums,  besides  telling  about  April ,  first  games,  Hal- 
lowe'en parties,  a  Thanksgiving-day  frolic,  a  penny  entertainment  and  other  possible 
good  times. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  99 

Cyr,  Ellen  M.  j  372.4  C98 

Advanced  first  reader.     1902.     Ginn.     (Art  series.) 

Illustrated  with  pictures  of  famous  paintings. 

Dale,  Mrs  Lucy.  j  942   D16 

Landmarks  of  British  history.     1010.     Longmans. 

"Leading  dates"  at  the  end  of  many  of  the  chapters. 

Especially  good  for  the  description  of  life  in  England  at  different  periods.  Well 
illustrated. 

Dana,  Richard  Henry.  j  910.4  Diga 

Two  years  before  the  mast,  with  a  supplement  by  the  author  and 
introduction  and  additional  chapter  by  his  son.     191 1.    Houghton. 

In  the  year  1834  Mr  Dana,  a  Harvard  undergraduate,  sailed  as  one  of  the  crew 
of  the  brig  Pilgrim,  of  the  American  merchant  service  on  her  voyage  from  Boston  round 
Cape  Horn  to  the  Western  coast  of  North  America.  "Two  years  before  the  mast" 
gives  a  remarkably  vivid  account  of  his  experiences  on  this  voyage. 

"It  leads  all  others  as  the  book  best  descriptive  of  the  life  of  the  American  sailor 
and  has,  deservedly,  become  a  sea  classic."  E.  S.  Brooks,  in  Story  of  the  American 
sailor. 

This  edition  has  full-page  illustrations  in  color  by  E.  B.  Smith;  plates  showing  spars, 
rigging  and  sails  of  ships,  with  key;  maps  strewing  course  of  vessels,  and  other  special 
features. 

Dana,  Mrs  William  Starr,  aftcrn'ard  Mrs  Parsons.  j  580.4  Diga 

According  to  season.     1902.     Scribner. 

Talks  about  the  flowers  in  the  order  of  their  appearance  in  the  woods  and  fields. 
Illustrated. 

Dana,  Mrs  William  Starr,  afterward  Mrs  Parsons.  j  580  D19 

How  to  know  the  wild  flowers.    1898.    Scribner. 

Arranging  the  flowers  according  to  color,  Mrs  Dana  gives  brief,  interesting  descrip- 
tions of  over  400  varieties  that  will  enable  a  boy  or  girl  to  recognize  readily  the  wild 
flowers.     Romantic  legends  and  anecdotes  about  flowers  are  also  given. 

Dana,  Mrs  William  Starr,  aftcrivard  Mrs  Parsons.  j  581  Digp 

Plants  and  their  children.     1896.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

A  series  of  easy  readings  on  fruits  and  seeds,  roots  and  stems,  buds,  leaves  and 
flowers. 

Daniels,  Frank  Thomas.  j  744.2  D22 

Text-book  of  free-hand  lettering.     1895.     Heath. 

Preliminary    exercises,   forms   of  letters,  spacing,   inking,   etc.     Twelve  plates. 

Darling,  Esther  Birdsall.  j  0258b 

Baldy  of  Nome;  decorations  by  Hattie  Longstreet.     Perm  Pub.  Co. 

Baldy  becomes  one  of  a  team  of  Alaska  racing  dogs  and  wins  the  great  race  for  his 
master  against  heavy  odds. 

Darton,  F.  J.  Harvey.  j  821  C4it 

Tales  of  the  Canterbury  pilgrims  retold  from  Chaucer  &  others, 
with  introduction  by  F.  J.  Furnivall.     [1904.]     Gardner. 

Tales  told  by  a  party  of  pilgrims  who  set  out  together  for  Canterbury  from  the 
Tabard  inn  in  Southwark.  Among  the  stories  arc.  Faithful  Constance. — Patient  Gris- 
elda. — The  story  of  Cambuscan  Bold. — The  rocks  removed. — How  crows  became  black.— 
Virginia. 

Illustrated  by  Hugh  Thomson. 

Darton,  F.  J.  Harvey,  ed.  j  398  D26W 

WOnder-book  of  beasts.      [1909.]      Gardner. 

Contents:  Cock-alu  and  Hen-alie. — Soup  on  a  sausage-peg. — The  forest  mill.  In 
the  duck  yard. — How  the  mice  got  out  of  trouble. — \\  i       ■  mb.      Reynard  the   f"\. 

— Spotty  and  Gosling. — The  adventures  of  <  banticleer  and  Partlet.     The  tomtil  and  tin- 


AW\6 


ioo  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Darton,  F.  J.  Harvey,  ed. — continued.  j  398  D26W 

bear. — The  battle  of  the  frogs  and  mict. — The  three  bears. — The  mouse,  the  bird  and  the 
sausage. — The  jackal  and  the  alligator. — Chicken-licken. — The  wolf  and  the  seven  gos- 
lings.— All-gone. — The  three  little  pigs. — Singh  Rajah  and  the  cunning  little  jackals. — 
The  white  pet. — The  cat  and  the  mouse. — The  rabbit's  bride. — The  three  jumpers. — The 
dog  and  the  sparrow. — -The  squirrel's  dream. — -The  cat  that  could  not  be  killed. — The 
fox's  son. 

Humorous  pictures  by  Margaret  Clayton. 

Darton,  F.  J.  Harvey.  j  398.2  D26 

Wonder  book  of  old  romance;  illustrated  by  A.  G.  Walker.    [1907.] 

Gardner. 

Contents:  William  and  the  werewolf. — King  Robert  of  Sicily. — Sir  Cleges  and  the 
cherries. — Sir  Gawain  and  the  Green  Knight. — The  fair  unknown. — King  Horn. — The 
seven  wise  masters. — Sir  Degore  and  the  broken  sword. — Guy  of  Warwick. — The  ash 
and  the  hazel. — Floris  and  Blanchefleur. — Amys  and  Amylion. — Havelok  the  Dane. 

Tales  of  fair  ladies  and  distressed  damsels  and  of  knights  who  fight  dragons  and 
rescue  the  unfortunate.     Delightful  pictures. 

Daskam,  Josephine  Dodge,  afterward  Mrs  Bacon.  j  D273S1 

Sister's  vocation,  and  other  girls'  stories.     Scribner. 

Other  stories:  A  college  girl. — A  taste  of  Bohemia. — Her  stepmother.— A  singer's 
story. — A  fair  exchange. — Her  father's  daughter. — A  country  cousin. — The  flesh-pots 
of  Egypt. 

Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution,  Pittsburgh  j  974.886  D28 

chapter. 

Fort  Duquesne  and  Fort  Pitt  [with  a  chapter  on]  early  names  of 
Pittsburgh  streets   [by  J.  M.  Harding].     1902. 

Small  volume  giving  a  brief  account  of  the  building  of  Fort  Duquesne  and  Fort 
Pitt  and  the  historical  events  connected  with  them.  Compiled  from  Parkman's  histories, 
Hildreth's  "Pioneer  history"  and  other  sources.  Illustrated  with  several  portraits,  pic- 
tures of  the  blockhouse  of  Fort  Pitt  and  a  map  of  Pittsburgh  in  1795. 

D'Aulnoy,  Marie  Catherine  Jumelle  de  Berneville,  comtesse.     See  Aul- 

noy,  Marie  Catherine  Jumelle  de  Berneville,  comtesse  d'. 

Daulton,  Mrs  Agnes  McClelland.  j  D28sf 

Fritzi;  or,  The  princess  Perhaps.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 34,  April-Oct.    1907. 

Fritzi,  the  little  violinist,  is  adopted  three  times  and   finally  finds  her  father. 

Davidson,  Edith  B.  j  D297bn 

Bunnikins-Bunnies  and  the  moon  king,  with  illustrations  by  C.  E. 
Atwood.     Little. 

The  Bunnikins-Bunnies  take  a  trip  in  an  airship  to  the  kingdom  of  the  moon  and 
the  island  of  Mars.     For  little  children. 

Davidson,  Edith  B.  j  0297b 

Bunnikins-Bunnies  in  camp;  pictures  by  C.  E.  Atwood.    Houghton. 

Tells  how  the  Bunnikins  family  camped  out  for  the  summer,  of  Bobtail's  mishap 
and  of  the  heroism  of  Mr  Bunnikins;  a  story  for  little  children. 

Davidson,  Edith  B.  j  D297bu 

Bunnikins-Bunnies  in  Europe;  pictures  by  C.  E.  Atwood.  Hough- 
ton. 

More  about  the  Bunnikins  family  and  how  they  and  Mr  and  Mrs  Gray-Squirrel  went 
abroad  for  the  summer;   a  story  for  little  children. 

Daviess,  Maria  Thompson.  j  D314P 

Phyllis.     Century. 

Fifteen-year-old  Phyllis,  rich  but  lonely,  confides  a  great  secret  to  "leather  Louise" 
and  tells  how  she  found  friends  and  interests,  excitement  and  adventure,  in  the  little 
Southern  town  of  Byrdsville. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Davis,  Charles  Gerard,  ed.  j  797  D31 

Harper's  boating  book  for  boys.     1912.     Harper. 

"Dictionary   of   mechanical   and   electrical   terms,"   p. 391-407. 

Guide  to  motor  boating,  sailing,  canoeing  and  rowing.  Gives  directions  for  making 
model  boats  and  those  for  actual  use;  also  suggestions  on  the  choice  of  a  boat,  its  out- 
fit, management  and  care.  The  closing  chapters  give  a  history  of  the  Harvard- Yale  race 
from  1852  to  1912.     Many  illustrative   drawings  and  diagrams. 

Davis,  Charles  Gerard.  j  629.1232  D31 

Motor  boating  for  boys.  1913.  Harper.  (Harper's  practical  books 
for  boys.) 

"Simple  practical  handbook  of  motor-boating  which... not  only  explains  the  de- 
tails of  the  mechanism,  installation,  and  operation  of  motors,  tanks,  carbureters,  etc., 
but  also  sets  forth  the  various  chances  for  trouble,  and  the  difficulties  which  may  be 
encountered,  and  shows  how  they  are  to  be  avoided  or  overcome."     Preface. 

Contains  chapters  on  "Sign-boards  and  lamp-posts  of  the  water"  and  "Rules  of  the 
road." 

Davis,  Katherine  Wallace.  j  D319P 

Pappina,  the  little  wanderer;  a  story  of  southern  Italy.     Flanagan. 

Running  title  reads   "The  Punchinellos." 

Little  seven-year-old  Pappina  wanders  with  the  Punchinellos  along  the  beautiful 
Italian  coast,  sings  and  dances  and  has  many  adventures,   sad  and  happy. 

Davis,  Mary  Hayes,  &  Chow-Leung.  j  398.91  D32 

Chinese  fables  and  folk  stories.     1908.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Stories  familiar  in  the  home  and  school  life  of  the  children  of  China.  Pen-and-ink 
drawings  in  Chinese  style. 

Davis,  Mrs  Mollie  Evelyn  (Moore).  j  976.4  D32 

Under  six  flags;  the  story  of  Texas.     1898.     Ginn. 

"The  history  of  Texas  is  far  more  than  a  romantic  legend.  It  is  a  record  of  bold 
conceptions  and  bolder  deeds;  the  story  of  the  discoverer  penetrating  unknown  wilder- 
nesses; of  the  pioneer  matching  his  strength  against  the  savage;  of  the  colonist  strug- 
gling for  his  freedom  and  his  rights."     Preface. 

Davis,  Richard  Harding.  j  0323b 

The  boy  scout,  and  other  stories  for  boys.     Scribner. 

Other  stories:  The  boy  who  cried  wolf. — Gallegher. —  Blood  will  tell. — The  bar  sin- 
ister. 

Davis,  Richard  Harding.  j   D323g 

Gallegher,  and  other  stories.    Scribner. 

The  first  story  relates  the  surprising  adventures  of  the  office-boy  belonging  to  the 
staff  of  a  great  newspaper. 

Other  stories:  A  walk  up  the  avenue. — My  disreputable  friend,  Mr  Raegan. — The 
other  woman.- — The  trailer  for  room  no. 8. — "There  were  ninety  and  nine." — The  cynical 
Miss  Catherwaight. — Van  Bibber  and  the  swan-boats. — Van  Bibber's  burglar. — Van  Bib- 
ber as  best  man. 

Davis,  Richard  Harding.  j  D323S 

Stories  for  boys.     Scribner. 

Contents:  The  reporter  who  made  himself  king.  -Midsummer  pirates. — Richard 
Carr's  baby. — The  great  tri-club  tennis  tournament. — The  jump  at  Corey's  slip.  —The 
Van  Bibber  Baseball  Club. — The  story  of  a  jockey. 

Davis,  William  Morris.  j  551  D32e 

Elementary  physical  geography.     1902.     Ginn. 
Appendices:     References  for  supplementary   reading. — References   for  maps. 


102  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Dawes,  Anna  Laurens.  j  353  D32 

How  we  are  governed;  an  explanation  of  the  constitution  and 
government  of  the  United  States.     1896.     Ginn. 

Partial  contents:  Powers  of  Congress. — Methods  and  customs  of  the  House  of 
representatives. — Election  of  a  president. — Duties  of  the  president. — Rights  and  privi- 
leges of  a  citizen  of  the  United  States. — The  states. — The  territories. 

Dawson,  Arthur  H.  j  949.2  D33 

Stories  from  Dutch  history.     [1913.]     Crowell. 

Traces  the  history  of  the  Netherlands  from  the  time  when  Julius  Csesar  found  the 
rude  Batavians  living  in  their  huts  among  the  swamps,  through  the  stormy  days  of  the 
counts  of  Holland  and  Flanders  and  the  terrible  struggle  against  the  tyranny  of  Spain, 
until  at  last  the  Dutch  became  a  free  and  united  people.  Ends  with  the  treaty  of  Utrecht 
in  1713.     Illustrated. 

Day,  Lewis  Foreman.  j  744.2  D33a 

Alphabets  old  &  new  for  the  use  of  craftsmen,  with  an  introduc- 
tory essay  on  Art  in  the  alphabet.     1910.     Batsford. 

Contains  many  complete  alphabets  and  series  of  numerals.  An  introductory  chapter 
traces  the  historic  development  of  letter-forms.     Useful  for  lettering. 

Dean,  Eva.  qj  D344i 

In  Peanut  land;  verses  and  pictures.     Somerville. 

Rhymes  of  Peanut  land  illustrated  with  pictures  of  peanut  people.  Shows  how  to 
make  dolls  from  pins  and  peanuts. 

Dearborn,  Ned.  j  598.2  D34 

Bird  houses  and  how  to  build  them.  1914.  (United  States — Agri- 
culture, Department  of.     Farmers'  bulletin  no. 609.) 

Very  practical.     Gives  designs  and  working  drawings. 

Debogorii-Mokrievich,  Vladimir  Karpovich.  j  914.7  D35 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Russia.  1916.  Lothrop.  (Children  of  other 
lands  books.) 

The  author,  a  noted  political  exile,  describes  his  boyhood  on  a  large  Russian  estate, 
his  school  days,  the  freeing  of  the  serfs,  the  uprising  for  liberty  of  the  university  stu- 
dents, and  his  escape  from  Siberia. 

Defoe,  Daniel.  j  D378I 

Life  of  Robinson  Crusoe.     Harper;  Houghton;  Jacobs. 

Strange,  surprising  adventures  of  Robinson  Crusoe,  mariner,  who  lived  for  28  years 
on  a  lonely  island. 

Edition  published  by  Harper  has  attractive  illustrations  by  the  brothers  Rhead; 
edition  published  by  Houghton  has  12  colored  plates  and  other  pictures  by  E.  Boyd 
Smith. 

The  same;  embellish'd  with  plates  after  designs  by  Noel 

Pocock.     Hodder j  D378I4 

The  same.     Crowell;  Dent j  D378I3 

Contains  "Further  adventures  of  Robinson  Crusoe." 

Defoe,  Daniel.  j  D3781g2 

Robinson  Crusoe;  ed.  for  little  folks  by  Mary  Godolphin.  Educa- 
tional Pub.  Co. 

Retold  in  simple  language. 

De  Groot,  Cornelia.  j  914.92  D38 

When  I  was  a  girl  in  Holland.  1917.  Lothrop.  (Children  of  other 
lands  books.) 

Author  lived,  when  a  girl,  in  a  small  village  in  the  province  of  Friesland.  She 
tells  of  her  home  and  school  life  and  of  the  manners  and  customs  of  the  people. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  103 

Deland,  Ellen  Douglas.  j  03891k 

Katrina.     Wilde. 

"A  summer  vacation  at  1  he  Perkins'  farm  with  Katrina  and  the  Boarders,  some  of 
whom  were  no  older  than  Katrina  and  quite  as  lively.  Later  she  visits  them  in  New 
York."    Prentice  St  Power's  A  children's  library. 

Deland,  Ellen  Douglas.  j  D38911T1 

Malvern;   a  neighborhood  story.     Wilde. 

How  some  enterprising  boys  and  girls  in  a  New  Jersey  country  village  form  a 
"Travellers'  Club,"  publish  a  newspaper,  and  do  other  things  to  raise  money  for  a  trip 
to  the  Chicago  World's  Fair. 

Deland,  Ellen  Douglas.  j  D38910 

Oakleigh.     Harper. 

Oakleigh,  a  country-house  on  the  Charles  river  in  Massachusetts,  is  the  home  of  the 
motherless  Franklin  children.  The  story  tells  of  the  coming  of  a  stepmother  into  the 
family  and  how  Edith,  the  oldest  daughter,  rebellious  at  first,  finally  becomes  reconciled. 

Deland,  Ellen  Douglas.  j  D3891S 

Successful  venture.     Wilde. 

The  "successful  venture"  of  four  girls  and  their  young  brother  who,  rather  than 
be  dependent  on  their   relatives,  go  to  work  and  earn  their  own  living. 

De  la  Ramee,  Louisa.     Sec  Ramee,  Louisa  de  la. 

Demetrios,  George.  j  92  D^gd 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Greece  [ed.]  by  J.  A.  Huybers.  1913.  Loth- 
rop.     (Children  of  other  lands  books.) 

Reminiscences  of  a  Greek  lad  who  grew  up  in  Macedonia  and  who  has  recently 
(1013)   settled  in  Boston.     He  writes  feelingly  of  Turkish  oppression  in  his  home  land. 

Deming,  Edwin  Willard,  &  Deming,  Mrs  T.  O.  j  D421C 

Children  of  the  wild,  with  Indian  folk-lore  stories  for  children. 
Stokes. 

Full-page  colored  plates  and  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Deming,  Edwin  Willard,  &  Deming,  Mrs  T.  O.  j  D42ii 

Indian  child  life.    Stokes. 

Indian  stories  and  pictures.  Also  published  in  two  volumes  under  the  titles  "Little 
red  people"  and  "Little  Indian  folk." 

Deming,  Edwin  Willard,  &  Deming,  Mrs  T.  O.  j  D42ilit 

Little  brothers  of  the  West,  with  Indian  folk-lore  stories  for  chil- 
dren.    Stokes. 

Full-page  colored  plates  and  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Deming,  Edwin  Willard,  &  Deming,  Mrs  T.  O.  j  D421I 

Little  Indian  folk.     Stokes. 

Short  stories  of  Indian  child  life.  Full-page  colored  plates  and  illustrations  in 
black  and  white. 

Deming,  Edwin  Willard,  &  Deming,  Mrs  T.  O.  j  D421H 

Little  red  people.     Stokes. 

Short  stories  of  Indian  child  life.  Full-page  colored  plates  and  illustrations  in 
black  and  white. 

Deming,  Edwin  Willard,  &  Deming,  Mrs  T.  O.  qj  D42ir 

Red  folk  and  wild  folk;  Indian  folk-lore  stories  for  children.  Stokes. 

Full-page  colored  plates  and  illustrations  in  black  and  white.  Also  published  in  two 
volumes  under  the  titles  "Children   of  the   wild"  and  "Little  brothers  of  the   West." 


io4  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Denton,  Clara  Janetta.  j  793.1  D43 

Little  people's  dialogues,  designed  for  young  people  of  ten  years. 
1906.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Contents:  For  the  youngest  children. — For  the  older  children  and  the  older  and 
younger  combined. — For  special  occasions:  Thanksgiving  day;  Fourth  of  July;  Wash- 
ington's birthday;  Christmas;  Miscellaneous. 

Diaz,  Mrs  Abby  (Morton).  j  D539C 

Cats'  Arabian  nights;  or,  King  Grimalkum.     Lothrop. 

Thrilling  adventures  of  cats  told  to  King  Grimalkum  by  Pussyanita,  whom  he  had 
condemned  to  death. 

Diaz,  Mrs  Abby  (Morton).  j  D539J 

Jimmyjohns,  and  other  stories.     Lothrop. 

Adventures  of  the  twins  Jimmy  and  Johnny  Plummer,  with  other  stories  and  dia- 
logues. 

Diaz,  Mrs  Abby  (Morton).  j  D539P 

Polly  Cologne.     Lothrop. 

Polly  Cologne  was  a  rag  baby  who  lived  at  the  Land  of  Ease  in  Prairie  Rose  cot- 
tage. All  who  care  to  hear  how  she  was  lost  and  of  the  adventures  of  the  Jimmyjohns 
and  Annette  in  trying  to  find  her,  "who  did  find  her  and  how  she  went  on  her  travels, 
and  of  the  different  people  she  stayed  with,  and  how  she  came  back,  and  when  she  came 
back,  and  what  happened  to  Rover,  and  how  he  came  back,  and  when  he  came  back,  are 
invited  to  listen." 

Diaz,  Mrs  Abby  (Morton).  j  D539W 

William  Henry  and  his  friends.    Lothrop. 

A  sequel   to   "The  William  Henry  letters." 

Diaz,  Mrs  Abby  (Morton).  j  D53gwi 

William  Henry  letters.     Lothrop. 

Entertaining  letters  exchanged  between  a  small  boy  at  boarding-school  and  his 
friends  at  home. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssia 

Adventures  of  Oliver  Twist.     Houghton. 

Story  of  a  homeless  English  boy  who  fell  among  thieves — Fagin  and  Bill  Sikes, 
Nancy  and  the  Artful  Dodger. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssib 

Barnaby  Rudge;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.    2v.     Chapman. 
Barnaby  Rudge  joined  the  Gordon  rioters  in  the  stirring  days  of  1780.     Dolly  Var- 

den  is  another  of  the  principal  characters  and  Grip  the  raven  plays  an  important  part  in 

the  story. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  D551DI 

Bleak  house;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.    2v.     Chapman. 

About  Mr  Jarndyce  of  Bleak  house  and  his  wards  in  chancery.  Mrs  Jellyby, 
Harold  Skimpole,  Mr  Guppy,  Mr  Turveydrop,  the  model  of  deportment,  Jo  and  the 
Smallweeds  are  among  the  other  characters. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  D551C 

Child's  dream  of  a  star,  and  The  child's  story.  Page.  (Cosy  corner 
series.) 

"Now,  these  rays  were  so  bright,  and  they  seemed  to  make  such  a  shining  way  from 
earth  to  Heaven,  that  when  the  child  went  to  his  solitary  bed,  he  dreamed  about  the 
star;  and  dreamed  that,  lying  where  he  was,  he  saw  a  train  of  people  taken  up  that 
sparkling  road  by  angels.  And  the  star,  opening,  showed  him  a  great  world  of  light, 
where  many  more  such  angels  waited  to  receive  them."  From  "A  child's  dream  of  a 
star." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  105 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  942  D55 

Child's  history  of  England.     Dutton. 

From  the  Roman  conquest  to  the  accession  of  William  and  Mary,  1688.  Dramatic 
and  picturesque  account  with  many  interesting  incidents  of  William  the  Conqueror, 
Richard  the  Lion-Heart,  King  John  called  "Lackland,"  bluff  "King  Hal,"  "Good  Queen 
Bess,"   Charles  the  "Martyr  King,"   Oliver  Cromwell  and   others. 

Illustrated  by  Patten  Wilson. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssich 

Christmas  books,  Master  Humphrey's  clock,  and  The  mystery  of 

Edwin  Drood.     Chapman. 

The  Christmas  stories  are,   A   Christmas  carol. — The  chimes. — The   cricket   on  the 

hearth. — The  battle  of  life. — The  haunte.d  man. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j   Dssichr 

Christmas  carol.     Dutton. 

A  ghost  story  of  Christmas.     Illustrated  by  C.  E.   Brock. 

"He  has  not  only  pleased  us — he  has  softened  the  hearts  of  a  whole  generation.  He 
made  charity  fashionable;  he  awakened  pity  in  the  hearts  of  sixty  millions  of  people. 
He  made  a  whole  generation  keep  Christmas  with  acts  of  helpfulness  to  the  poor;  and 
every  barefooted  boy  and  girl  in  the  streets  of  England  and  America  to-day  fares  a  little 
better,  gets  fewer  cuffs  and  more  pudding,  because  Charles  Dickens  lived  and  wrote." 
Quoted  by  Laurence  Hutton  from  the  public  press  at  the  time  of  Dickens's  death. 

The  same.     Putnam j  Dssichr 

Many  pictures  by  F.  S.   Coburn. 

The  same;  illustrated  by  Arthur  Rackham.    Lippincott. .  .j  Dssichr2 

Twelve  colored  plates  and  other  pictures   in   black  and  white. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssicr 

Cricket  on  the  hearth;  a  fairy  tale  of  home.     Dutton. 

Tells  of  Dot  Peerybingle  and  John  the  carrier,  of  Tilly  Slowboy  and  the  baby,  of 
Caleb  Plummer,  blind  Bertha  and  the  toy  merchant.      Colored  pictures  by  C.  E.   Brock. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssid2 

David  Copperfield;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     2v.     Chapman. 

Dickens  himself  said,  "I  have  in  my  heart  of  hearts  a  favorite  child  and  his  name 
is  David  Copperfield."  Other  characters  are  Mr  Dick,  the  Micawbers,  Betsey  Trotwood, 
Steerforth,   Tommy  Traddles,    Dora,  Agnes   and  Little   Em'ly. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssido2 

Dombey  and  son;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     2v.     Chapman. 

"Here  we  have  the  pathetic  story  of  little  Paul,  the  fate  of  Carker...and  the  devo- 
t/ion  of  Susan  Nipper,  Mr.  Toots,  Captain  Cuttle,  and  Sol  Gills  to  the  gentle,  patient, 
lovable  Florence."     Laurence  Hutton. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  D551I 

Little  Dorrit;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     2v.     Chapman. 

Strange  history  of  the  child  of  the  Marshalsca  prison. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssim 

Martin  Chuzzlewit;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     2v.     Chapman. 

Containing  a  full  account  of  the  installation  of  Mr  Pecksniff's  new  pupil  and  of 
what  became  of  Martin  and  his  desperate  resolve  after  he  left  Mr  Pecksniff's  house; 
what  persons  he  encountered,  what  anxieties  he  suffered,  what  enterprises  he  undertook 
and  of  how  at  last  the  tables  were  turned  completely  upside  down. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  Dssin2 

Nicholas  Nickleby;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     2v.     Chapman. 

In  which  Nicholas  Nickleby  becomes  assistant  to  Mr  Wackford  Squeers,  the  York- 
shire schoolmaster,  and  varies  the  monotony  of  Dotheboys  hall  by  a  most  vigorous  and 
remarkable  proceeding,  which  leads  to  consequences  of  some  importance;  also  the 
further  chronicle  of  the  Nicklebv   family. 


106  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  D5510I 

Old  curiosity  shop;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.    2v.     Chapman. 

Pathetic  story  of  the  wanderings  of  little  Nell  and  her  grandfather.  Interwoven 
with  their  history  is  the  "romance"  of  Dick   Swiveller  and  the  Marchioness. 

The  same;  illustrated  in  colour  by  Frank  Reynolds.     Hod- 
der qj  D5510I3 

Handsome  quarto  volume  with  21   full-page  colored  pictures. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  D5510 

Our  mutual  friend;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     2v.     Chapman. 

Tale  of  an  extraordinary  will  and  the  complications  which  resulted  from  it,  told  in 
four  parts,  The  cup  and  the  lip. — Birds  of  a   feather. — A  long  lane. — A  turning. 

The  Boffins,  the  doll's  dressmaker,  Silas  Wegg  and  Bella  Wilfer  are  some  of  the 
characters. 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  D551P 

Posthumous  papers  of  the  Pickwick  club;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.  2v. 
Chapman. 

Adventures  of  Mr  Pickwick  and  his  friends,  showing,  among  other  pleasant  matters, 
how  he  once  undertook  to  drive  and  Mr  Winkle  to  ride,  and  how  they  both  did  it. 

The  same;  illustrated  in  colour  by  Frank  Reynolds.     Hod- 
der qj  D551P2 

Handsome  quarto  volume  with  24  full-page  color  plates  of  Mr  Tupman,  Mr  Snod- 
grass,  Mr  Winkle  and  their  illustrious  leader,  the  old  lady  and  the  fat  boy,  Sam  Weller, 
Miss   Arabella    Allen,  Mr  Serjeant  Buzfuz,  and  other  characters  of  the  "Pickwick  papers." 

Dickens,  Charles.  j  D55it 

Tale  of  two  cities.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Story  of  the  French  revolution  and  the  Reign  of  terror.  The  uprising  of  the  Pari- 
sian mob  against  the  aristocrats  and  the  terrors  of  mob  rule  are  described  as  by  an  eye- 
witness. Madame  Defarge  is  the  tragic  figure  and  Sydney  Carton  "one  of  the  most 
heroic  characters  in  romance." 

Dickerson,  Mary  Cynthia.  j  595.78  D55 

Moths  and  butterflies.     1901.     Ginn. 

"Books  for  reference,"  p. 331-332. 

Identifies  "by  means  of  photographs  from  life  forty  common  forms,  in  caterpillar, 
chrysalis  or  cocoon,  and  adult  stages.  It  makes  clear  the  external  structure  adapting 
the  creature  to  its  life;  it  describes  and  illustrates  the  changes  in  form  from  caterpillar 
to  chrysalis,  from  chrysalis  to  butterfly."     Preface. 

Two  hundred  illustrations. 

Dickinson,  Asa  Don,  &  Skinner,  A.  M.  ed.  j  D552C 

Children's  book  of  Christmas  stories.     Doubleday. 

The  voyage  of  the  wee  red  cap. — Story  of  the  Christ-child. — Why  the  chimes  rang. 
— Little  Wolff's  wooden  shoes. — The  golden  cobwebs. — The  legend  of  Babouscka. — The 
Cratchits'  Christmas  dinner. — Master  Sandy's  snapdragon. — A  Christmas  fairy. — Little 
Gretchen  and  the  wooden  shoe,  and  other  Christmas  tales. 

Dickinson,  Asa  Don,  &  Dickinson,  H.  W.  ed.  j  D552ch 

Children's  book  of  patriotic  stories;  the  spirit  of  '76.    Doubleday. 

Stories  and  anecdotes  of  the  Revolutionary  period,  selected  from  the  "Youth's  com- 
panion," "Wide  awake,"  Weems's  "Life  of  Washington"  and  other  sources. 

Dickinson,  Asa  Don,  ed.  j  D552Ct 

Children's  book  of  Thanksgiving  stories.  Doubleday. 
Among  the  stories  are,  Thankful,  by  Mary  E.  Wilkins. — Mistress  Esteem  Elliott's 
molasses  cake,  by  Kate  Upson  Clark. — How  we  kept  Thanksgiving  at  Oldtown,  by  Har- 
riet Beecher  Stowe. — Patem's  Salmagundi,  by  E.  S.  Brooks. — John  Inglefield's  Thanks- 
giving, by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — The  master  of  the  harvest,  by  Mrs  Gatty. — An  old- 
fashioned  Thanksgiving,  by  Rose  Terry  Cooke. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  107 

Dickson,  Mrs  Marguerite  Stockman.  j  973-2  DS5 

From  the  Old  World  to  the   New;   how  America  was  found  and 

settled.     1902.     Macmillan. 
"Book  list,"  p. 191  -192. 
After  each  chapter  are  suggestions  of  "things  to  remember,"   "things  to  read"  and 

"things  to  do." 

Dier,  J.  C.  comp.  qj  394  D57 

Children's  book  of  Christmas.     191 1.     Macmillan. 

Selections  from  different  writers  telling  of  the  Christmas  customs  of  many  lands 
and  times.  Also  contains  Christmas  poems  and  carols.  Color  plates  and  other  illus- 
trations. 

Dimock,  Anthony  Weston.  j  Dsgsd 

Dick  among  the  lumber-jacks.     Stokes.     (Boy  explorers  series.) 
The  two  boy  explorers  join  a  surveying  party  in  the  Canadian  lumber  region  and 
have   many   adventures   with    lumberjacks   and    rivermen.      Follows    "Dick   in   the    Ever- 
glades." 

Dimock,  Anthony  Weston.  j  Dsgsdi 

Dick  in  the  Everglades.     Stokes.     (Boy  explorers  series.) 

How  two  boys  canoed,  fished,  hunted,  captured  alligators  and  manatees  and  had 
other  interesting  experiences  in  the  Everglades  and  on  the  west  coast  of  Florida.  Photo- 
graphic illustrations  of  leaping  tarpon,  alligators,  wildcats,  etc. 

Dix,  Beulah  Marie.  j  D647b 

Blithe  McBride.     Macmillan. 

From  London  town  where  she  had  fared  but  ill,  Blithe  McBride  escapes  to  the 
plantation  of  Massachusetts  to  serve  her  time  as  a  bondmaiden.  She  has  various  ex- 
periences among  the  Puritans  and  is  carried  into  captivity  by  the  Indians,  but  finally 
receives  the  due  reward  of  her  bravery  and  loyalty. 

Dix,  Beulah  Marie.  j  D647f 

Friends  in  the  end.     Holt. 

Of  Dorothea's  summer  on  a  little  farm  in  the  Xew  Hampshire  mountains,  the  feud 
with  Camp  Comfort  and  how  it  all  ended. 

Dix,  Beulah  Marie.  j  D647m 

Merrylips.     Macmillan. 

Story  of  a  little  English  girl  who  had  always  wished  to  be  a  boy.  When  the  war 
broke  out  between  the  Cavaliers  and  the  Roundheads,  this  desire  saved  her  from  cap- 
tivity and  led  her  through  many  thrilling  adventures. 

Dix,  Beulah  Marie.  j  D647S 

Soldier  Rigdale.     Macmillan. 

How  he  sailed  in  the  Mayflower  and  how  he  served   Miles  Standish. 

Dixon,  Royal.  j  581.5  D64 

The  human  side  of  plants.     1914.     Stokes. 

Grouping  plants  as  those  that  walk,  those  that  fish,   those  that   defend   themsi 
etc.,  the  author  gives  many  curious  and  interesting  facts  about  plant  habits.      Four  color 
plates,  and  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

Djurklou,  Nils  Gabriel,  friherre.  j  398  D64 

Fairy  tales  from  the  Swedish;  authorised  translation  by  H.  L. 
Braekstad.     1901.     Stokes 

Dodge,  Mrs  Mary  (Mapes).  j  D67id 

Donald  and  Dorothy.     Century. 
Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.o,  Dec.  1881-Oct.  1882. 
Story  of  a  merry   boy  ami   girl  about  whom  an    interesting  mystery  lingers. 


108  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Dodge,  Mrs  Mary  (Mapes).  j  D671I1 

Hans  Brinker.     Scribner. 

A  story  of  glittering  ice  and  flashing  skates,  and  of  the  boys  and  girls  of  plucky 
little  Holland. 

The  same,  with  drawings  by  G.  W.  Edwards.     Scribner. . .  .j  D67ih2 

Dodge,  Mrs  Mary  (Mapes).  j  D671I 

Land  of  pluck.     Century. 

Descriptions  of  Holland  and  its  people,  telling  about  its  dikes,  its  streets  and  by- 
ways, its  industries,  and  all  the  wonders  that  Dutch  pluck  has  accomplished.  The  book 
contains  also  other  short  stories  and  sketches. 

Dodge,  Mrs  Mary  (Mapes),  comp.  qj  D67111 

New   baby   world;    stories,    rhymes    and    pictures    for    little    folks. 

1897.     Century. 

Compiled  from  "St.  Nicholas." 

Dodge,  Mrs  Mary  (Mapes).  j  811  D67r 

Rhymes  and  jingles.     1895.     Scribner. 

Verses  and  pictures,  both  grave  and  gay,  for  little  folk. 

Dodge,  Mrs  Mary  (Mapes).  j  811  D67 

When  life  is  young;  a  collection  of  verse.     1894.     Century. 

Humorous  rhymes,  jingles  and  pictures.     Many  originally  appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas."' 

Dodge,  Nathaniel  Shatswell.  j  973  D67 

Stories  of  American  history,  teaching  lessons  of  patriotism.  1879. 
Lothrop.     (American  history  stories.) 

Colonial   and   Revolutionary  tales.      Language  is  simple  and   type  large. 

Dodge,  Theodore  Ayrault.  j  798  D67 

Riders  of  many  lands.     1894.     Houghton. 

Col.  Dodge  has  ridden  with  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men,  from  the  Mexican 
vaquero  to  the  Arab  sheik,  and  on  every  kind  of  a  mount,  from  a  bronco  to  a  bridle- 
bullock.  He  describes  these  various  riders  and  mounts,  telling  many  stories  about 
famous  rides  and  well  known  horses.     Illustrated  by  Frederic  Remington. 

Dodgson,  Charles  Lutwidge.     See  Carroll,  Lewis,  pseud. 

Dole,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  172  D69 

The  American  citizen.     1893.     Heath. 

"Books  for  reference,"  p.317-320. 

Facts  about  the  government  of  our  country,  our  social  institutions  and  the  rights 
and  duties  of  nations. 

Dole,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  D6942C 

Crib  and  Fly;  a  tale  of  two  terriers.     Heath. 
Dole,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  172  D6gy 

Young  citizen.     1899.     Heath. 

Explains  the  form  of  government  and  the  duties  of  good  citizenship. 

Partial  contents:  What  the  children  can  do  for  their  city. — Who  patriots  are. — The 
policemen  and  what  they  are  for. — Our  public  servants. — The  city  fathers;  or,  Keeping 
house  for  the  people. — The  city  beautiful. — The  head  of  the  nation. 

Dole,  Nathan  Haskell,  ed.  j  D6g4b2 

Book  of  adventure.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new 
ser.  v.8.) 

Contents:  A  daring  escape  from  a  French  prison,  by  Sir  S.  W.  Baker.- — Exploring 
the  Bagworthy  water,  by  R.  D.  Blackmore. — An  adventure  in  Thule,  by  William  Black. 
— The  first  sally  and  the  adventure  with  the  windmill,  by  Cervantes. — On  the  trail,  by 
J.  F.  Cooper. — An  old  cockade,  by  S.  A.  Drake. — False  teeth,  an  eye-glass  and  white  legs, 
by  H.  R.  Haggard. — A  brave  woman's  adventure,  by  Washington  Irving. — An  adventure 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  109 

Dole,  Nathan  Haskell,  ed. — continued.  j  D694D2 

in  war  time,  by  J.  P.  Kennedy. —  How  they  took  the  gold  train,  by  Charles  Kingsley. — 
Rescued  from  the  Indians,  by  F.  Marryat. — The  escape,  by  Herman  Melville. — The 
march  to  Mexico,  by  W.  H.  Prescott. — Adventure  of  Leif  the  Lucky,  from  the  old 
sagas. — The  disinherited  knight,  Adventures  of  a  king,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott. — Kidnapped, 
by  R.  L.  Stevenson. — In  flood  time,  by  Rudyard  Kipling. — Adventures  of  a  boy  among 
the  red  Indians,  by  John  Tanner. — A  captive  in  the  Caucasus,  by  L.  X.  Tolstoi. — An 
adventure  with  Sioux  Indians,  by  Jules  Verne. 

Dole,  Nathan  Haskell,  tr.  j  398  D69 

The  white  duckling,  and  other  stories.     1913.     Crowell. 

Other  stories:  The  little  sister  and  little  brother. —The  Bright-hawk's  feather. — Ivan 
and  the  gray  wolf. — Vasilisa  the  beauty. — Marya   Morevna. — The   frog-queen. 

Dorr,  Mrs  Julia  Caroline   (Ripley).  j  D742i 

In  kings'  houses.     Page. 

A  romance  of  the  days  of  Queen  Anne.  Robin,  the  hero,  is  one  of  the  "duke  of 
Gloster's  men"  and  the  "Little  Lady"  of  the  story  is  the  queen's  godchild. 

Dorrance,  John  Gordon.  j  634.9  D74 

Story  of  the  forest.     1916.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  The  forests  of  America. — The  tree  and  how  it  lives. — The  tree  and  how 
it  dies. — How  to  know  the  trees. — Work  in  the  woods. — By-products  of  the  forest. — 
Trees  in  American  history. 

Doubleday,  Mrs  Nellie  Blanchan  (De  Graff),  (pseud.  qj  598.2  D75 

Neltje  Blanchan). 
Bird  neighbors;  an  introductory  acquaintance  with  150  birds  com- 
monly found  in  the  gardens,  meadows  and  woods  about  our  homes, 
with  50  colored  plates.     1898.     Doubleday. 

Brief  classifications  and  clear,  direct  descriptions  afford  the  amateur  bird  student 
invaluable  assistance.  John  Burroughs,  the  naturalist  and  author,  says  in  his  introduc- 
tion, "I  can  say  that  it  is  reliable  and  is  written  in  a  vivacious  strain  and  by  a  real 
bird  lover." 

Doubleday,  Mrs  Nellie  Blanchan  (De  Graff),  (pseud.  j  598.2  075b 

Neltje   Blanchan). 
Birds    that   every    child    should    know;    the    East.      1907.      Grosset. 
("Every  child  should  know"  books.) 

Partial  contents:  Our  Robin  Goodfellow  and  his  relations. — Some  neighbourly  acro- 
bats.— A  group  of  lively  singers. — Birds  not  of  a  feather. — The  swallows. — Rascals  we 
must  admire. — Some  queer  relations. — Non-union  carpenters. — Day  and  night  allies  of 
the  farmer. — Birds  of  the  shore  and  marshes. — The  fastest  flyers. 

Illustrated  with  72  photographs  from  life. 

Doubleday,  Mrs  Nellie  Blanchan  (De  Graff),  (pseud.  j  598.2  D75h 

Neltje  Blanchan). 
How  to  attract  the  birds,  and  other  talks  about  bird  neighbours. 
1902.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  How  to  invite  bird  neighbours. — The  ruby-throat's  caterers.  — Bird  archi- 
tecture.— Home  life. — Nature's  first  law. — Songs  without  words. — Why  birds  come  and 
go. — What  birds  do  for  us. — Some  naturalized   foreigners. 

Doubleday,  Mrs  Nellie  Blanchan   (De  Graff),  (pseud.  qj  580  D75 

Neltje  Blanchan). 
Nature's  garden;  an  aid  to  knowledge  of  our  wild  flowers  and  their 
insect  visitors.     1900.     Doubleday. 

Describes  in  untcchnical  language  over  500  species  of  wild  flowers,  arranged    1 
ing  to  color.     Gives  scientific  and  popular  names,  short  descriptions  of    (lowers,   leaves 
and   fruit,  preferred  habitat,   flowering  season   and  geographical   distribution,   with  com- 
ments on  the  flowers  and  their  fertilization  by  insects.     Many  illustrations  in  block  and 
white  and  in  colors. 


no  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Doubleday,  Russell.  j  D754C 

Cattle  ranch  to  college;  the  true  tale  of  a  boy's  adventures  in  the 
far  West.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Doubleday,  Russell.  j  973.89  D75 

A  gunner  aboard  the  "Yankee,"  from  the  diary  of  Number  five  of 
the  after  port  gun.     1898.    Doubleday. 

Author,  a  member  of  the  New  York  naval  reserve,  tells  of  his  experiences  in  the 
war  with  Spain  in   1898. 

\Colored  plates  illustrating  the  system  of  wigwagging  and  night  signaling,  official 
flags  and  pennants,  and  the  navy  code  of  flag  signals. 

Doubleday,  Russell.  j  609  D75 

Stories  of  inventors;  the  adventures  of  inventors  and  engineers, 
true  incidents  and  personal  experiences.     1904.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  How  Guglielmo  Marconi  telegraphs  without  wires. — Santos-Dumont  and 
his  air-ship. — How  a  fast  train  is  run. — How  automobiles  work. — The  fastest  steamboats. 
— The  life-savers  and  their  apparatus. — Moving  pictures;  some  strange  subjects  and  how 
they  were  taken. — Bridge  builders  and  some  of  their  achievements. — Submarines  in  war 
and  peace. — Long-distance  telephony;  what  happens  when  you  talk  into  a  telephone  re- 
ceiver.— A  machine  that  thinks;  a  type-setting  machine  that  makes  mathematical  calcula- 
tions.— How  heat  produces  cold;  artificial  ice-making. 

Douglas,  Amanda  Minnie.  j  940.4  D75 

Heroes  of  the  crusades.     1889.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  The  spirit  of  the  crusades.— Peter  the  Hermit. — Hugh  of  Vermandois. — 
Godfrey  of  Bouillon. — Tancred. — Louis  VII  of  France. — Baldwin  III. — Guy  of  Lusig- 
nan. — Richard  the  Lion  Heart. — Saladin. — Saint  Louis. 

Dragoumis,  Julia  D.  j  D783U 

Under  Greek  skies.     Dutton.     (Little  schoolmate  series.) 

Contents:     Mattina. — The  finding  of  the  cave. — Alexander  the  son  of  Philip. 

Stories  of  Greek  children.  They  tell  of  what  happened  to  eleven-year-old  Mattina 
who  went  to  Athens  as  a  serving-maid,  how  Pavlo  proved  his  courage  and  resourceful- 
ness in  a  time  of  danger  and  how  a  little  newsboy  attained  his  great  desire,  an  oppor- 
tunity to  go  to  school. 

Drake,  Francis  Samuel.  j  970-1  D78a 

Indian  history  for  young  folks.     1919.     Harper. 

About  King  Philip,  Pontiac,  Tecumseh,  Weatherford,  Black  Hawk  and  other  Indian 
chiefs  and  their  wars  with  the  white  settlers.  Chapters  added  in  this  edition  deal  with 
the  Ute  outbreak  of  1879,  the  warlike  Apaches,  the  Sioux  war  of  1890-91  and  the  Indians 
at  the  present  time  (1919).     Many  pictures. 

Drake,  Samuel  Adams.  j  973-2  D78b 

The  border  wars  of  New  England,  commonly  called  King  William's 
and  Queen  Anne's  wars.     1897.     Scribner. 

History  of  Indian  warfare  from  1688  to  the  treaty  of  Utrecht  in  1713,  including 
accounts  of  the  sack  of  Dover,  the  captivity  of  Sarah  Gerrish,  the  attack  on  Haverhill, 
the  escape  of  Hannah  Dustan  and  the  sacking  of  Deerfield. 

Drake,  Samuel  Adams.  j  978  D78 

Making  of  the  great  West,  1512-1883.     1897.     Scribner. 

Work  of  the  three  rival  nations,  France,  Spain  and  England,  in  the  exploration, 
settlement  and  development  of  the  region  beyond  the  Mississippi.  The  Lewis  and  Clark 
expedition,  the  Missouri  compromise,  the  Mexican  war,  the  discovery  of  gold  in  Cali- 
fornia, the  Kansas-Nebraska  struggle,  are  among  the  other  subjects  treated. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Drake,  Samuel  Adams.  j  977  D78 

Making  of  the   Ohio  valley  states,   1660-1837.      1894.     Scribner. 
Popular  history  presenting  the  familiar  tales  of  pioneer  life,  and  also  giving  clearly 
and  concisely  other  matter  which  is  not  found  in  the  ordinary  history.     Excellent  illus- 
trations of  life  in  early  days. 

"By  reference  to  authority,  by  supplementary  foot-note,  by  illustration  from  local 
environment  Mr.  Drake  has  stamped  his  narrative  with  the  certificate  of  truthfulness." 
Dial,  1894- 

Drake,  Samuel  Adams.  j  974-4  D78 

On  Plymouth  rock.     1897.     Lothrop. 

Tells  of  the  landing  of  the  Pilgrim  Fathers,  the  great  sickness,  the  treaty  with  Mas- 
sasoit  and  other  events.  Based  upon  Governor  Bradford's  manuscript  history  of  Ply- 
mouth colony. 

Drake,  Samuel  Adams.  j  973-3  D78 

Watch  fires  of  '76.     1895.     Lothrop. 

Short  stories  illustrating  the  patriotism  of  men  and  women  during  Revolutionary 
times.  Includes  The  surprise  at  Ticonderoga. — The  kidnapping  of  Gen.  Prescott. — 
Stony  Poinl  Jackson. — File-firing. — Old  Put's  gallows. — The  secret  service. — A  night 
with  Cornwallis. — Brave  old  Baron  Steuben. 

Driggs,  Laurence   La  Tourette.  j   D827a 

Adventures  of  Arnold  Adair,  American  ace.     Little. 

Stirring  fiction  and  at  the  same  time  true  portrayal  of  air  fighting. 
Drummond,   Henry.  j   0844m 

The  monkey  that  would  not  kill.     Dodd. 

Pranks  of  a  mischievous  monkey  who  "won't  hang,  won't  drown,   won't   shoot." 

Drysdale,  William.  j  D853D 

The  beach  patrol;  a  story  of  the  life-saving  service.     Wilde. 

Tale  of  land  and  sea,  describing  exciting  adventures  at  the  life-saving  station  near 
Atlantic  City,  and  the  particularly  valiant  service  of  one  member  of  the  life-saving  crew. 

Drysdale,  William.  j  D853C 

Cadet  Standish  of  the  St.  Louis;  a  story  of  our  naval  campaign  in 
Cuban  waters.     Wilde. 

Drysdale,  William.  j  D853f 

The  fast  mail;  the  story  of  a  train  boy.     Wilde. 

Experiences  of  a  newsboy  of  the  Union  News  Company  on  the  West  India  East 
mail;  full  of  life  and  adventure. 

Drysdale,  William.  j   174  D85 

Helps  for  ambitious  boys.     1899.     Crowell. 

Practical  suggestions  as  to  the  careers  open  to  young  men,  and  the  qualities  and 
acquirements  necessary  to  success  in  each. 

Drysdale,  William.  j  396.5  D85 

Helps  for  ambitious  girls.     1900.     Crowell. 

Advice  to  girls  concerning  the  various  employments  and  professions  open  to  them 
and  the  possibilities  of  success  in  each. 

Drysdale,  William.  j  D853y 

The  young  supercargo.     Wilde. 
Story  of   the  merchant    marine,   telling   how  a  boy   rises  from   cabin-boy   to   purser 

through  honesty  and   faithfulness. 

Du  Bois,  Mary  Constance.  j  D859I 

Lass  of  the  silver  sword.     Century. 

Story  of  boarding-school  and  camp  life,  telling  of  the  founding  of  the  "<  1 
the  silver  sword"  and  of  the  gay  times  of  the  "battle  maids"  al  Camp  Huairarwee. 


ii2  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Du  Bois,  Mary  Constance.  j  D8sgle 

L.eague  of  the  signet  ring.     Century. 
Further  adventures  of  the  "Lass  of  the  silver  sword"  and  the  "battle  maids." 

Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  916.7  D86c 

Country  of  the  dwarfs.     1905.     Harper. 

Strange  experiences  among  the  African  pygmies  and  the  great  negro  tribes  in  whose 
country  the  little  men  live. 

Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  916.7  D86i 

In  African  forest  and  jungle.     1903.     Scribner. 

Hunting  experiences  in  central  Africa. 
Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  D864i 

Ivar  the  viking;  a  romantic  history  based  upon  authentic  facts  of 
the  3d  and  4th  centuries.    Scribner. 

"The  history  of  the  Norse  chieftain  begins  with  his  birth,  and  tells  of  his  fostering 
away  from  home,  of  his  education,  his  expeditions  and  his  voyages,  and  finally  of  his 
accession  to  rule  upon  the  death  of  his  father... The  story  is  characteristically  spirited, 
and  the  romantic  part,  at  least,  leaves  nothing  to  be  desired."     Nation,  1893. 

Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  914.7  D86 

Land  of  the  long  night.     1899.     Scribner. 

"  'The  Land  of  the  Long  Night'  is  a  land  of  darkness,  of  snow,  of  wind,  and  at 
times  of  intense  cold.  .  .We  shall  sleep  on  the  snow  in  bags  made  of  reindeer  skins,  fol- 
low the  nomadic  Laplander  and  his  reindeer,  live  with  him  and  sleep  in  his  kata  or  tent. 
We  shall  hunt  wolves,  bears,  and  different  kinds  of  foxes  and  other  animals,  and  sail 
and  fish  on  the  stormy  Arctic  seas."     Introduction. 

Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  916.7  D861 

Lost  in  the  jungle.     1869.     Harper. 

Full  of  adventures  with  savage  men  and  wild  beasts. 

Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  916.7  D86m 

My  Apingi  kingdom,  with  life  in  the  great  Sahara  and  sketches  of 
the  chase  of  the  ostrich,  hyena,  &c.     1898.     Harper. 

A  continuation  of  "Lost  in  the  jungle." 
Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  916.7  D86 

Stories  of  the  gorilla  country.    1895.    Harper. 

Adventures  among  wild  men  and  beasts  on  the  west  coast  of  Africa. 

Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  916.7  D86w 

Wild  life  under  the  equator.     1896.     Harper. 

"I  am  going  to  lead  you  into  the  great  forest  of  Equatorial  Africa... I  am  going  to 
bring  you  face  to  face  with  the  gorilla,  and  lead  you  into  the  midst  of  the  wild  tribes 
of  men  I  have  discovered.  .  .1  shall  tell  you  about  snakes,  leopards,  elephants,  hippo- 
potami, and  other  wild  beasts  of  the  forests.  About  insects,  wonderful  ants,  and  many 
other  curious   things."     Preliminary   chapter. 

"Du  Chaillu  must  have  had  a  most  varied  and  satisfactory  experience  while  he  tar- 
ried in  Africa.  If  in  this  book  there  is  any  kind  of  animal  or  savage  that  he  failed  to 
have  a  bout  with,  it  has  escaped  our  memory  or  Mr.  Du  Chaillu's  bullet."     G.  E.  Hardy. 

Du  Chaillu,  Paul  Belloni.  j  591.5  D86 

World  of  the  great  forest;  how  animals,  birds,  reptiles,  insects  talk, 
think,  work  and  live.     1900.    Scribner. 

Life  in  the  great  African  forest.  The  animals  appear  under  their  native  names,  tell 
their  own  stories  and  explain  their  actions  as  if  they  had  the  power  of  speech. 

Dudley,  Albertus  True.  j  D872I1 

The  half-miler.    Lothrop. 

Story  of  an  ambitious  mill-boy  who  works  his  way  through  a  preparatory  school,  is 
successful  in  track  athletics  and  wins  the  scholarship  for  leadership. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  113 

Dudley,  Albertus  True.  j  D872U 

The  unofficial  prefect;  illustrated  by  F.  T.  Wood  and  T.  D.  Skid- 
more.     Lothrop.     (Stories  of  the  Triangular  League.) 

The  able  but  unpopular  student,  by  conquering  himself,  wins  in  the  end  the  coveted 
athletic  honors  and  a  position  of  leadership. 

Dudley,  Edward  Lawrence.  j  92  F87gd 

Benjamin  Franklin.  1915.  Macmillan.  (True  stories  of  great 
Americans.) 

Short  and  entertaining  account  of  Franklin's  career  as  printer,  scientist,  philosopher 
and  patriot. 

Dumas,  Alexandre,  the  elder,  j  D8gnb2 

Black  tulip,  and  Tales  of  the  Caucasus:  The  ball  of  snow,  and  Sul- 
tanetta.     Little. 

The  first  story  tells  how  the  prisoner  of  the  fortress  of  Loevestein  won  the  prize 
for  the  wondrous  black  tulip.  The  scene  is  in  Holland  and  the  period  the  17th  century 
at  the  time  of  the  agitation  against  the  De  Witt  brothers,  the  patriotic  defenders  of 
Dutch  liberty. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  595-79  D89 

Bees,  wasps  and  ants.     [1913.]     Frowde.     (Wonders  of  insect  life.) 

Four  colored  plates,  and  other  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  595-76  D89 

Beetles  and  flies.     [1913.]     Frowde.     (Wonders  of  insect  life.) 

Four  colored  plates,  and  other  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  595-78  D89 

Butterflies  and  moths.     [1913?]     Frowde.     (Wonders  of  insect  life.) 

Four  colored  plates,  and  other  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  595.7  D89 

Insect  life  in  pond  and  stream.  [1914.]  Frowde.  (Wonders  of  in- 
sect life.) 

Partial  contents:  Wee  water  folk. — Some  odd  insects. — Water-beetles  great  and 
small. — The  dragon  of  the  pool. — The  "quick-winged  gnat." — Flies  and  their  "water 
babies." — The   wise  caddis-worm. 

Colored  pictures  and  others  in  black   and   white. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  597  D89 

Life  in  the  deep  sea.     1913.     Frowde.     (Wonders  of  the  sea.) 

Short  chapters  on  different  kinds  of  fishes,  whales  and  seals.     Well  illustrated. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  595.3  D89 

The  lobster  &  his  relations.     1913.    Frowde.     (Wonders  of  the  sea.) 

Includes  crabs,  shrimps,  prawns  and  barnacles.      Well   illustrated. 
Duncan,  F.  Martin.  j  592  D89 

The  seashore;  a  book  for  young  people.     [1012.]     Stokes. 

Describes  the  strange  and  wonderful  forms  of  plan!  and  animal  life  found  along  the 
seashore  and  in  the  deep  rock  pools.  There  arc  the  different  kinds  of  seaweeds,  the 
jellyfish,  the  shell  dwellers,  the  starfish,  the  flower-like  anemones,  the  nautilus,  Bhrimps, 
barnacles,  crabs,  lobsters  and  others.  Tells  also  how  to  make  and  stock  an  aquarium  and 
gives  suggestions  for  the  necessary  equipment  For  collecting.  Illustrations  from  photo- 
graphs by  the  author. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  595.7  D8gs 

Some  curious  insects.     [1913.I     Frowde.     (Wonders  of  insect  life.) 

Describes  grasshoppers,  locusts,  crickets,  cicadas  and  other  insects.  They  are  char- 
acterized as  "actors,"  "musical."  "cheerful,"  "unpopular,"  eti  Foui  colored  plates, 
and  other  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 


H4  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  595.4  D89 

Spiders  and  scorpions.     [1913.]     Frowde.     (Wonders  of  insect  life.) 

Four  colored  plates,  and  other  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Duncan,  F.  Martin,  &  Duncan,  L.  T.  j  593  D89 

The  starfish  &  his  relations.  [1912.]  Frowde.  (Wonders  of  the 
sea.) 

Includes  sea-urchins,  sea-cucumbers  and  worms  of  the  sea.  Four  colored  plates, 
and  other  illustrations  in  black  and  white. 

Duncan,  Frances.  j  716  D89 

Mary's  garden  and  how  it  grew.     1004.     Century. 

A  little  girl  learns  to  make  and  care  for  a  garden. 

Duncan,  Frances.  j  716  D8gw 

When  mother  lets  us  garden;  a  book  for  little  folk  who  want  to 
make  gardens  and  don't  know  how.     1909.    Moffat. 

Rhymes  for  little  gardeners,  and  chapters  on  Flower  gardening. — Market  garden- 
ing.— Indoor  gardening. 

Illustrated  from  drawings. 

Duncan,  Norman.  j  D8gg2a 

Adventures  of  Billy  Topsail.     Revell. 

Billy  Topsail  is  a  Newfoundland  fisher  lad.  Among  other  adventures  the  story  tells 
how  he  set  out  for  Ruddy  cove  with  Her  Majesty's  mail  and  met  with  catastrophe,  how 
he  captured  the  giant  squid  of  Chain  Tickle  and  how  he  went  seal  hunting  and  was  car- 
ried out  to  sea  with  the  ice-floe. 

Duncan,  Norman.  j  D8992D 

Billy  Topsail  &  Company;  a  story  for  boys.     Revell. 

More  adventures  of  Billy  Topsail  and  the  other  Ruddy  cove  fisher  lads.  Tells 
what  happened  to  the  "First  Venture,"  of  the  boys'  trading  expedition,  and  how  Archie 
Armstrong  saved  his  honor. 

Duncan,  Norman.  j  D8g92bi 

Billy  Topsail,  M.  D.;  a  tale  of  adventure  with  Doctor  Luke  of  the 
Labrador.     Revell. 

In  "the  spring  of  the  year,  when  the  ice  breaks  up  and  the  floes  come  drifting  out 
of  the  north  with  great  storms,"  Billy  Topsail  adventures  with  Doctor  Luke  of  the 
Labrador  and  shares  with  him  many  hardships  and  dangers.  Follows  "Billy  Topsail  & 
Company." 

Duncan,  Sara  Jeannette,  afterward  Mrs  Cotes.  j  D8ggst 

Story  of  Sonny  Sahib.    Appleton. 

How  a  baby  boy  was  rescued  by  his  ayah  from  the  massacre  at  Cawnpore  and 
brought  up  in  a  Hindu  village 

Dunton,  Larkin,  ed.  j  910  D92 

Glimpses  of  the  world.     1889.     Silver.     (World  and  its  people.) 

Geographical  reader  for  the  younger  children.     Includes  short  poems. 

Du  Puy,  William  Atherton.  j  353  D93 

Uncle  Sam's  modern  miracles;  his  gigantic  tasks  that  benefit 
humanity.     1914.     Stokes. 

Partial  contents:  Conquering  contagion. — Revealing  weather  secrets. — Transform- 
ing Western  deserts. — Shackling  the  Mississippi. — Helping  the  farmer's  wife. — Re- 
juvenating Porto  Rico. — Remaking  the  "poor  whites." — Getting  the  land  to  the  people. 
— Blanketing  the  world  with  wireless. — Daily  mail  in  the  country. — Producing  census 
facts. — Teaching  sanitation  to  the  world. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  115 

Dutton,  Maude  Barrows.  j  910  D95 

In  field  and  pasture.     1905.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  White  cloud,  the  little  Pueblo  girl. — Pepy  and  Athor,  children  of  the 
Nile  valley. — Hare  Track,  the  Navajo  boy. — Bumo  and  Bu,  children  of  Tibet. — Jose, 
who  lived  on  the  wonderful  island. — Ivan  and  Olga,  children  of  Russia. — Children  of 
the  land  of  the  midnight  sun. — Pierre  and  Yiolette,  children  of  the  Alps. — Suggestions 
for  hand  work. 

Dutton,  Maude  Barrows.  j  944  D95 

Little  stories  of  France,  with  a  preface  by  S.  T.  Dutton.  1906. 
Amer.  Book  Co. 

From  the  time  of  the  Druids  and  Vercingetorix,  the  bravest  of  the  Gauls,  to  the 
France  of  to-day.  Among  others,  there  are  stories  of  Roland,  Charles  VI  the  "Mad 
king,"  the  Maid  of  Orleans,  the  brave  Bayard  and  of  Bertrand  du  Guesclin  and  of  how, 
disguised,  he  took  the  prizes  away  from  full-grown  knights  when  he  was  only  12  years 
old. 

Dutton,  Maude  Barrows.  j  943  D95 

Little  stories  of  Germany,  with  a  preface  by  F.  L.  Soldan.  1907. 
Amer.  Book  Co. 

About  Charles  the  Great,  Frederick  Barbarossa,  Peter  the  Hermit,  Albrecht  Diirer, 
Gutenberg,  Martin  Luther,  Gustavus  Adolphus,  Frederick  the  Great,  Schiller,  Queen 
Louise  and  other  people  prominent  in  the  history  of  Germany. 

Earl,  John  Prescott.  j  E1732C 

Captain  of  the  school  team.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Foot-ball  story.     Follows  "The  school   team   in  camp." 

Earl,  John  Prescott.  j  E17320 

On  the  school  team.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Story  of  school,  foot-ball  and  track  athletics. 

Earl,  John  Prescott.  j  E1732S 

The  school  team  in  camp.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 
Sequel  to  "On  the  school  team." 

Earl,  John  Prescott.  j  E1732SC 

The  school  team  on  the  diamond.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Ted  Grant  makes  the  school  nine  and  helps  win  the  great  game  of  the  year.  Fol- 
lows "Captain  of  the  school  team." 

Earle,  Ralph.  j  359.071  E17 

Life  at  the  U.  S.  Naval  Academy;  the  making  of  the  American  naval 
officer,  with  an  introduction  by  F.  D.  Roosevelt.     1917.     Putnam. 

Contents:  Historical  sketch. — The  candidate. — The  new  midshipman. — Organization. 
— Academic  work. — Examinations. — Practical  instruction  and  drills. — Religion,  discipline, 
morale. — Physical  training  and  medical  care. — Athletics. — Recreation. — The  practice 
cruises. — The  postgraduate. — Grounds  and  buildings. — The   ensign. 

"Course  of  study,   with  text-books  used,"  P.314-3J4. 

Contains  map. 

Eastman,  Charles  Alexander.  j  970.2  E18 

Indian  boyhood.     1902.     Doubleday. 

Dr  Eastman,  who  is  a  full-blooded  Sioux  Indian,  lived  until  15  yens  of  age  with 
his  tribe  on  the  plains  of  the  Northwest.  He  tells  here  of  Indiaji  customs  and  legends, 
Indian  life  and  adventure,  of  his  own  boyish  training,  playmates,  games,  hunting,  fores) 
adventures,  and  of  the  bear  dance,   feasts  and  story-telling. 

Eastman,  Charles  Alexander.  j  970.1   E18 

Indian  child  life.     1914.     Little. 

Contents:      My   Indian  childhood. — Stories  of   red    Indians. 

Fourteen  stories  taken  from  the  author's  "Indian  boyhood"  and  "<^M  Indian  days." 


n6  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Eastman,  Charles  Alexander.  j  970.2  Ei8i 

Indian  heroes  and  great  chieftains.     1918.     Little. 

Contents:  Red  Cloud. — Spotted  Tail. — Little  Crow. — Tamahay. — Gall. — Crazy  Horse. 
— Sitting  Bull. — Rain-in-the-Face. — Two  Strike. — American  Horse. — Dull  Knife. — 
Roman   Nose.— Chief  Joseph. — Little   Wolf.— Hole-in-the-Day. 

Eastman,  Charles  Alexander.  j  796  E18 

Indian  scout  talks;  a  guide  for  boy  scouts  and  camp  fire  girls. 
1915.     Little. 

Suggestions  for  out-of-door  and  camp  life,  drawn  from  the  actual  experiences  of 
the  author.  Primitive  methods  of  hunting,  trapping  and  fishing  are  described,  and  there 
are  chapters  on  Indian  names  and  their  significance,  Indian  ceremonies,  sports,  gesture 
language  and  picture-writing. 

Eastman,  Charles  Alexander,  &  Eastman,  Mrs  Elaine  j  398.097  E18 

(Goodale). 
Wigwam  evenings;   Sioux   folk  tales  retold,  illustrated  by   E.  W. 
Deming.     1909.     Little. 

Partial  contents:  The  raccoon  and  the  bee-tree. — The  badger  and  the  bear. — Unk- 
tomee  and  his  bundle  of  songs. — The  Little  Boy  Man. — The  first  battle. — The  comrades. 
— The  Laugh-maker. — The  runaways. — The  girl  who  married  the  star. — North  Wind  and 
Star  Boy. — The  magic  arrows. — The  ghost-wife. 

Eastman,  Mrs  Elaine  (Goodale).  j  Ei8sy 

Yellow  Star;  a  story  of  East  and  West.     Little. 

Yellow  Star,  "The-One-Who-Was-Left-Alive,"  is  an  Indian  maiden  who  makes  many 
friends  among  the  school  girls  of  the  New  England  town  of  Laurel. 

Ebbutt,  Maud  Isabel.  j  398.2  E21 

Hero-myths  &  legends  of  the  British  race,  with  illustrations  by 
J.  H.  F.  Bacon  [and  others].     [1911.]     Crowell. 

Contents:  Beowulf. — The  dream  of  Maxen  Wledig.— The  story  of  Constantine  and 
Elene. — The  compassion  of  Constantine. — Havelok  the  Dane. —Howard  the  Halt. — 
Roland,  the  hero  of  early  France. — The  countess  Cathleen. — Cuchulain,  the  champion  of 
Ireland. — The  tale  of  Gamelyn. — William  of  Cloudeslee. — Black  Colin  of  Loch  Awe. — ■ 
The  marriage  of  Sir  Gawayne. — King  Horn. — Robin   Hood. — Hereward  the  Wake. 

Ebers,  Georg.  j  E2i8e 

Egyptian  princess.     Appleton. 

Tells  of  the  tragic  fate  of  the  Egyptian  princess  Nitetis  sent  to  Persia  to  become 
the  queen  of  Cambyses  III.  Among  the  other  historical  characters  are  Darius,  Croesus, 
king  of  Lydia,  and  Amasis  II  of  Egypt. 

Ebers,  Georg.  j  E218U 

Uarda.    Appleton. 

Romance  of  ancient  Egypt.  The  heroine  is  a  beautiful  Greek  girl  beloved  by  the 
son  of  Rameses  II. 

Eckstorm,  Mrs  Fannie  (Hardy).  j  598.2  E25b 

Bird  book.     1901.     Heath. 

Contents:     Water-birds   in   their   homes. — Structure   and   comparison. — -Problems   of 
bird  life. — Some  common   land-birds. 
List  of  books,  p.273-276. 
Adapted  for  school  use. 

Eddy,  Sarah  J.  comp.  j  E264f 

Friends  and  helpers.     Ginn. 

Short  stories  and  poems  about  animals,  birds  and  insects.     Good  illustrations. 

Eden,  Mrs  Horatia  K.  F.  (Gatty).    See  Gatty,  Horatia  K.  F. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Edgar,  Madalen  G.  comp.  j  821.08  E28 

Treasury  of  verse   for  little   children.      [1908.]      Crowell. 
Many    poems,    including    A    boy's    song. —  The    lost    doll. —  The    butterfly's    ball. — 

Wonderful    world. — Buttercups    and    daisies.  —How    the    leaves    came    down. — Wynken. 

Blynken   and   Nod. — The   willow-man. — A   sea-song  from   the  shore. — The   owl   and   the 

pussy-cat. 

Edgeworth,  Maria.  j  E284m 

Moral  tales  for  young  people.     Routledge. 

Contents:  Forester. — Angelina;  or,  L'amie  inconnue. — The  knapsack. — The  Prus- 
sian vase. — The  good  aunt.— The  good  French  governess. — Mademoiselle  Panache. 

Edgeworth,  Maria.  j  E284pa 

Parent's  assistant;  or,  Stories  for  children.     Macmillan. 

Quaint,  old-fashioned  stories  of  widows  in  flowery  cottages,  and  devoted  little  sons 
who  work  in  the  garden  and  earn  money  to  pay  the  rent;  of  good  little  orphans,  and  of 
bad  school-boys  who  poison  dogs.  Liberal  noblemen  and  benevolent  ladies  in  traveling 
carriages  take  the  place  of  fairies  and  arrive  just  in  time  to  distribute  the  rewards. 

Edgeworth,  Maria.  j  E284r 

Rosamond.     Routledge. 

About  Rosamond's  day  of  misfortunes,  the  purple  jar,  the  wonders  of  the  India 
cabinet  and  other  tales  of  a  little  seven-year-old  girl. 

Edgeworth,  Maria.  j  E284t 

Tales;   with   introduction   by  Austin    Dobson   and   illustrations  by 

Hugh  Thomson.     Stokes. 

Contents:     The   orphans. — Lazy    Lawrence. — The    false   key. — Simple    Susan. — The 

white  pigeon. — Forgive  and  forget. — Waste  not,  want  not;  or,  Two  strings  to  your  bow. 

— The  mimic. — The  barring  out;  or,  Party  spirit. — The  little  merchants. — Tarlton. — The 

basket-woman. 

Stories  selected  from  "The  parent's  assistant." 

Eggeling,  Otto,  &  Ehrenberg,  Frederick.  j  590.7  E35 

Freshwater  aquarium  and  its  inhabitants;  a  guide  for  the  amateur 
aquarist.     1908.     Holt.     (American  nature  series.) 

How  to  start  and  care  for  an  aquarium,  what  plants  and  fishes  to  select,  what  to 
feed  the  fish,  etc.     Many  illustrations  from  nature. 

Eggleston,  Edward.  j  973  E35 

First  book  in  American  history.     1917.    Amer.  Book  Co. 
A  book  about  American  heroes  and  their  deeds.     Among  the  men  of  whom  it  tells 
are  Capt.   John   Smith,   Capt.    Miles    Standish,    Nathaniel   Bacon,    William    Penn,    Daniel 
Boone,  George  Washington  and  Abraham  Lincoln.     Many  pictures. 

Eggleston,  Edward.  j  973  E35I102 

History  of  the  United  States  and  its  people.     1914.     Appleton. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Household  history  of  the  United  States  and  its  peo- 
ple." 

Includes  many  curious  details  of  life  and  manners,  especially  in  the  colonial  period 
and  in  the  early  days  of  the  Republic.     Many  maps  and  pictures. 

Eggleston,  Edward.  j  E357ho 

Hoosier  school-boy.     Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"  v. 9,   Dec.   t88i-April    1882. 

School-boy  life  in  Indiana  in  the  days  when  the  Middle  West  was  still  in  the 
making. 

Eggleston,  Edward. 

Household  history  of  the  United  States  and  its  people.  See  Ins 
History  of  the  United  States  and  its  people. 

Different  edition   having  changed   title. 


n8  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Eggleston,  Edward.  j  973  E35S 

Stories  of  American  life  and  adventure.     1895.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Short  stories  of  Indian  life,  frontier  peril  and  escape,  daring  Revolutionary  feats, 
dangerous  whaling  voyages.  Also  sketches  of  olden-time  homes,  schools,  dress  and  man- 
ners. 

Eggleston,  Edward.  j  923.2  E35 

Stories  of  great  Americans  for  little  Americans.  1895.  Amer.  Book 
Co. 

Such  stories  as,  Franklin's  whistle.- — Putnam  and  the  wolf. — Washington's  Christ- 
mas gift. — Marion's  tower. — Daniel  Boone  and  his  grapevine  swing. — Decatur  and  the 
pirates. — Capt.  Clark's  burning  glass. — The  india-rubber  man. — Dr  Kane  in  the  frozen 
sea. — Kit  Carson  and  the  bears. 

"It  is  one  of  the  purposes  of  these  stories  to  make  the  mind  of  the  pupil  familiar 
with  some  of  the  leading  figures  in  the  history  of  our  country  by  means  of  personal 
anecdote.  Some  of  the  stories  are  those  that  every  American  child  ought  to  know,  be- 
cause they  have  become  a  kind  of  national  folklore."     Preface. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary,  comp.  j  811.08  E35a 

American  war  ballads  and  lyrics.    2v.  in  1.     1889.     Putnam. 

Poems  and  songs  inspired  by  the  colonial  wars,  the  Revolution,  the  War  of  1812, 
the  Mexican  and  Civil  wars. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  E3571D 

Big  brother.     Putnam. 
Story  of  the  Creek  Indian  war. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  E357ica 

Camp  Venture.     Lothrop. 

Story  of  a  Virginia  mountain  logging  camp  telling  of  adventures  with  moonshiners 
and  wild  animals,  the  discovery  of  a  coal  mine,  etc. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  E3571C 

Captain  Sam;  or,  The  boy  scouts  of  1814.     Putnam. 

Sequel  to  "The  big  brother."  Sam,  as  leader  of  a  company  of  boys,  goes  on  a 
scouting  expedition  to  Pensacola  for  Gen.  Jackson. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  E3571I 

"  Last  of  the  flatboats;  a  story  of  the  Mississippi  and  its  interesting 
family  of  rivers.     Lothrop. 

Adventures  of  five  boys  who  take  a  flatboat,  laden  with  freight,  down  the  Missis- 
sippi to  New  Orleans. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  E3S7ir 

Running  the  river;  a  story  of  adventure  and  success.     Barnes. 

A  steamboat  disaster  and  its  consequences;  the  story  of  some  plucky  boys  and  their 
efforts  to  rebuild  their  father's  steamboat  business  on  the  Mississippi. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  E3571S 

Signal  boys.     Putnam. 

Sequel  to  "Captain  Sam."  The  scouting  company  of  Pensacola  serves  as  the  crew 
of  a  dispatch  boat  on  Lake  Borgne  and  has  other  adventures  in  the  vicinity  of  New 
Orleans  at  the  time  of  the  second  war  with  England. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  904  E35 

Strange  stories  from  history,  for  young  people.     1885.     Harper. 

Partial  contents:  The  boy  commander  of  the  Camisards. — The  battle  in  the  dark. — 
The  defence  of  Rochelle. — The  charge  of  the  hounds. — The  sad  story  of  a  boy  king. — 
The  scullion  who  became   a  sculptor. — A   prince  who  would  not   stay  dead. 

Eggleston,  George  Cary.  j  E3571W 

Wreck  of  the  Red  Bird.     Putnam. 

Three  "boy  Crusoes"  are  wrecked  upon  a  deserted  island  off  the  Carolina  coast. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  119 

Elias,  Mrs  Edith  L.  j  942.05  E47 

In  Tudor  times;  short  character-studies  of  the  great  Elizabethans. 
1912.     Harrap. 

Contents:  The  kix<;ship:  Henry  VII;  Henry  VIII;  Edward  VI;  Mary;  Eliza- 
beth; Lady  Jane  Grey;  Mary,  queen  of  Scots. — The  church:  Thomas  Wolsey;  Thomas 
Cromwell;  Martin  Luther;  William  Tyndale;  Thomas  Cranmer;  John  Knox. — The  sea: 
Christopher  Columbus;  Sebastian  Cabot;  Sir  John  Hawkins:  Sir  Francis  Drake. — The 
court:  William  Cecil,  lord  Burghley;  Robert  Dudley,  earl  of  Leicester;  Sir  Philip  Sid- 
ney; Sir  Walter  Raleigh. — The  renaissance:  William  Caxton;  Sir  Thomas  More;  Ed- 
mund Spenser;   William  Shakespeare. 

Eliot,  George,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Mary  Ann  (Evans)  Cross).  j  E476m 

Mill  on  the  Floss.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

The  tragedy  of  Maggie  Tulliver  and   her  brother  Tom. 

"The  great  Floss,  hurrying  between  green  pastures  to  the  sea,  gives  a  unity  of  its 
own  to  this  story,  which  opens  to  the  roar  of  waters,  the  weltering  waters  which  ac- 
company it  at  the  close."     Mathilde  Blind. 

Eliot,  George,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Mary  Ann  (Evans)  Cross).  j  E476r 

Romola.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

A  stern  drama  of  temptation,  crime  and  inexorable  retribution  in  the  Florence  of 
Lorenzo  de'  Medici,  Savonarola  and  the  early  apostles  of  the  renaissance. 

Eliot,  George,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Mary  Ann  (Evans)  Cross).  j  E476si 

Silas  Marner,  the  weaver  of  Raveloe,  with  illustrations  by  Hugh 
Thomson.    Cranford  ed.    Macmillan. 

Scene  is  a  little  village  in  Warwickshire,  England,  and  the  principal  theme  the 
change  in  character  of  an  outcast  weaver  and  miser,  due  to  the  influence  of  a  little 
foundling  who  comes  into  his  life.  The  story  has  dramatic  situations,  homely  humor 
and  tragic  pathos.     For  the  older  boys  and  girls. 

The  same;  illustrated  by  M.  V.  Wheelhouse.     Bell j  E476si 

Eliot,  George,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Mary  Ann  (Evans)  Cross).  Works.  For 
adaptation  see 

Magruder,  Julia.     Child-sketches  from  George  Eliot j  E476C 

Eliot,  Samuel,  ed.  j  821.08  E47 

Poetry  for  children.     1879.     Houghton. 

The  sands  of  Dee. — There  was  a  jolly  miller. — We  are  seven. — The  May  queen.— 
Lord  Ullin's  daughter. — The  mountain  and  the  squirrel. — A  wet  sheet  and  a  flowing 
sea. — Father  William. — The  Inchcape  rock — these  are  a  few  titles  from  this  collection  of 
children's  poetry. 

Elkin,  Rosie  Helen.  j  E488C 

The  children's  corner;  rhymes  by  R.  H.  Elkin,  illustrated  by  H.  W. 
Le  Mair.     McKay. 

Fifteen  colored  plates  of  very  delightful  children,  with  a  rhyme  to  fit  each  pii 

Elkin,  Rosie  Helen.  j  7848  E48 

Old  Dutch  nursery  rhymes;  English  version  by  R.  H.  Elkin,  illus- 
trated by  H.  W.  Le  Mair;  the  original  tunes  harmonised  by  T.  Ront- 
gen.     1917.     Augener. 

Fifteen  full-page  colored  plates  of  quaint  tnd  picturesque  Dutch  children  and  scenes. 
Elliot,  George  Francis  Scott.  j  57*  E52 

Romance  of  savage  life;  describing  the  life  of  primitive  man.  his 
customs,  occupations,  language,  beliefs,  arts,  crafts,  adventures,  games, 
sports,  &c.     1908.     Lippincott. 

"Names  of  authors  and   references,"  p  1; : 

How  savage  people  live,   fish,  shoot,  nap.  hunt   and  carry  <<n   warfare;   how   they 
make  fire  and  how  they  construct  their  weapons,   such  a-  bows,  blowpipt 
eranns.     AN,,  tells  about  their  musii  .  1  ing  and  other  customs. 


CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Ellis,  Edward  Sylvester,  (pseud.  Col.  H.  R.  Gordon).  j  92  B63ie 

Life  and  times  of  Daniel  Boone,  with  sketches  of  Simon  Kenton 
and  Lewis  Wetzel.     1884.     Winston. 

"Popular  account  of  a  notable  life.  .  .A  boy's  book."  Larned's  Literature  of  Ameri- 
can history. 

Ellis,  Edward  Sylvester,  (pseud.  Col.  H.  R.  Gordon).  j  923.1  E5332 

Lives  of  the  presidents  of  the  United  States  [to  1913];  designed  for 
study  and  supplementary  reading,  revised  by  J.  O.  Hall.  1913.  Flana- 
gan. 

A  brief  life  of  each  of  the  presidents  of  the  United  States  from  George  Washington 
to  Woodrow  Wilson. 

Ellis,  Edward  Sylvester,  (pseud.  Col.  H.  R.  Gordon).  j  E531I 

Logan  the  Mingo;  a  story  of  the  frontier.     Dutton. 

Logan  the  Mingo  aids  in  the  escape  of  some  white  settlers  attacked  by  a  war-party 
of  Nippinocks. 

Ellis,  Edward  Sylvester,  (pseud.  Col.  H.  R.  Gordon).  j  E5310 

Osceola,  chief  of  the  Seminoles.     Dutton. 
Story  of  the  Seminole  war. 

Ellis,  Edward  Sylvester,  (pseud.  Col.  H.  R.  Gordon).  j  973  E53 

Stories  from  American  history.     1896.     Flanagan. 

Relates  certain  striking  incidents  from  early  American  history.  No  attempt  is  made 
to  give  a  connected  record. 

Partial  contents:  What  Ponto  saw. — -The  greatest  voyage  ever  made. — An  unwise 
and  wicked  ruler,  Governor  Berkeley. — The  martyr  patriot. — "General  Washington  needs 
me,  mother. "—The  wise  act  of  a  silly  boy. — "The  brains  of  the  Revolution,"  Benjamin 
Franklin. — How  our  forefathers  lived. 

Ellis,  Katharine  Ruth.  j  E533W 

The  Wide  awake  girls.     Little.     (Wide  awake  girls  series.) 

Hannah,  aged  14,  forms  the  acquaintance  of  three  girls  through  the  correspondence 
pages  of  the  "Wide  awake"  magazine.  This  is  the  story  of  their  friendship  and  of 
their  home  and  school  life. 

Ellis,  Katharine  Ruth.  j  E533C 

The    Wide    awake    girls    at    college.      Little.      (Wide    awake    girls 

series.) 

The  "Wide  awake  girls"   have  a  patchwork  evening,  a   stunt   party,   a  "bacon  bat" 

and  many  other  good  times  together  at  Dexter  College.     Follows  "Wide  awake  girls  in 

Winsted." 

Ellis,  Katharine  Ruth.  j  E533wi 

The   Wide   awake   girls   in   Winsted.     Little.      (Wide    awake   girls 

series.) 

Sequel  to  "Wide  awake  girls."     The  four  friends  spend  a  happy  week  together  at 

Catherine's  home  in  Winsted  and  Catherine  starts  a  public   library. 

Ellis,  Olin  O.  &  Garey,  E.  B.  j  355.51  E53a 

Plattsburg  manual;  a  handbook  for  military  training.  1918.  Cen- 
tury. 

Contents:  General  advice. — Physical  exercise. — School  of  the  soldier. — School  of 
the  squad. — School  of  the  company. — Fire  superiority. — The  service  of  security. — 
Attack  and  defense. — General  principles  of  target  practice. — Practice  march  or  "hike." — 
Officers'  reserve  corps. — Supplement:  The  theory  of  security;  Attack  and  defense; 
Patrolling;  Target  practice;  Tent  pitching;  Signals  and  codes;   First  aid  to  the  injured. 


CHILDREN'S   HOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


English,  Thomas  Dunn.  j  811  E64 

Boy's  book  of  battle-lyrics;  a  collection  of  verses  illustrating  events 
in  the  history  of  the  United  States  from  the  colonial  period  to  the  out- 
break of  the  sectional  war.     1885.     Harper. 

Epler,  Percy  Harold.  j  92  B282e 

Life  of  Clara  Barton.     1917.     Macmillan. 

"The  angel  of  the  battlefield,"  Clara  Barton  nursed  the  wounded  of  two  wars  on 
two  continents;  she  was  the  founder  and  successful  administrator  for  nearly  a  quarter 
of  a  century  of  the  American  National  Red  Cross  and  she  extended  the  work  of  the 
association  to  relief  in  public  disasters  as  well  as  in  time  of  war. 

Esop.    See  iEsop. 

Eugene,  Oncle.    See  Plon,  Eugene. 

Evans,  Lawton  Bryan,  and  others.  j  808.8  Eg4a 

Farm  life  readers;  book  five.     1916.     Silver. 

Selections  in  prose  and  poetry.  Compilers  are  Southern  educators,  one  of  whom 
was  also  special  agent  of  the  United  States  department  of  agriculture. 

Evans,  Alary  Ann.     See  Eliot,  George,  pseud. 

Everson,  Grace  Reese.  qj  784  E95 

Come  and  sing  with  me;  11  children's  songs.     1914-     Luckhardt. 
Contents:     Little  Bo  Peep. — Mistress  Mary. — Jack  be  nimble. — Little  Miss  Muffet. 

— Marjorie    Daw. — The   North   wind. — I    saw   a   ship    a-sailing. — Twinkle,    twinkle,    little 

star. — To  the  oriole. — The  wind. — -Christmas  carol. 

Everson,  Grace  Reese.  qj  784  E95S 

The  songs  I  know;  12  songs  for  children,  words  and  music.    1916. 

Luckhardt. 

Contents:  My  mother's  arms. — Daffy-down-Dilly. — Up  above  the  house-tops.  —  My 
pansies. — A  winter  song. — A  morning  prayer. — Spring  song.— Funny  little  shadow. — 
Harvest  song. — My   little  garden  bed. — Rain   song. — The   songs  I   know. 

Every  day  heroes;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j  Egs8e 

Contents:  Walter  Harvey,  coward,  by  M.  M.  Foss. — Heroes  who  fight  fire,  by 
J.  A.  Riis. — At  war  with  the  river,  by  F.  L.  Pollock. — Heroes  in  black  skins,  by  B.  T. 
Washington. — The  life-savers,  by  A.  W.  Stace. — A  conflict  in  the  dark,  by  H.  B.  Hul- 
bert. — -Chased  by  the  ice  jam,  by  J.  S.  Ellis. — An  Alpine  adventure,  by  G.  W.  Curran. — 
The  fire  on  Tamarack,  by  W.  V.  Chambers. — The  grit  of  the  chemist's  helper,  by  II.  1. 
Hancock. 

Ewald,  Carl.  j  570-4  E96 

The  queen  bee,  and  other  nature  stories;  tr.  from  the  Danish  by  G. 
C.  AI.  Smith.     1907.     Nelson. 

Other  stories:  The  anemones. — The  mist. — The  beech  and  the  oak. — The  dragon- 
fly and  the  water-lily. — The  weeds. — The  sparrow. 

Has  eight  colored  plates,  illustrative  borders,   etc. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75b 

The  brownies,  &  other  tales;  illustrated  by  A.  B.  Woodward.  Bell. 
Other  lairs:    The  land  of  lost  toys. — Three  Christmas  trees. — An  idyll  of  the  wood. 

— Christmas  crackers. — Amelia  and  the  dwarfs. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana   Horatia.  j   Eg75d 

Daddy  Darwin's  dovecot;  a  country  tale.     Crowell. 

"In    the   beautiful    English    country   dwell   old    Daddy    Darwin    and    Jack    March,   the 
littl.-  workhouse  boy.      \  delightful  anecdote  is  told  about   the  pigeons,  of  whom  Jack 
I  love  them  tumblers  ns  if  they  was  my  own.'  "     Arnold's  Mother's  list  ■  ■ 
Idren. 


122  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  E975f 

Flat  iron  for  a  farthing.     Bell. 

Reginald,  who  is  an  only  son  and  motherless,  tells  of  the  events  of  his  lonely  child- 
hood, of  his  dog  Rubens,  who  ran  60  miles  one  day  rather  than  be  separated  from  his 
master,  of  Nurse  Bundle  and  Polly,  and  of  the  little  ladies  in  beaver  bonnets  whom  he 
first  saw  buying  flat-irons.     Ends  in  a  happy  old-fashioned  romance. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75g 

A  great  emergency,  and  other  tales.     Bell. 

The  first  story  tells  how  Charlie,  in  spite  of  his  thirst  for  adventure,  missed  the 
only  "great  emergency"  that  did  happen. 

Other  tales:     A  very  ill-tempered  family. — Our  field. — Madam  Liberality. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75Ja2 

Jackanapes.     Soc.  for  Promoting  Christian  Knowledge. 

How  a  brave  English  soldier  lad  gave  up  his  life  for  a  friend. 

"There  be  things.  ..things  such  as  Love,  and  Honour,  and  the  Soul  of  Man,  which 
cannot  be  bought  with  a  price,  and  which  do  not  die  with  death." 

The  same,  and  The  story  of  a  short  life.    Little j  Eg75Ja4 

With  this  is  bound  Gatty's  "Juliana  Horatia  Ewing  and  her  books." 

The  same,  and  other  tales.     Bell j  Eg75Ja3 

Other  tales:     Daddy  Darwin's  dovecot.— The  story  of  a  short  life. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75J 

Jan  of  the  windmill.    Bell. 

His  experiences  as  a  pig-minder  and  as  a  miller's  boy,  how  he  was  kidnapped  and 
taken  to  London  and  how  the  mystery  of  his  parentage  was  solved.  Squire  Aramaby, 
Amabel  who  rescued  the  white  horse,  Abel  the  windmiller's  son,  Master  Swift  the  school- 
master and  the  Cheap  Jack  are  some  of  the  other  characters  in  the  story. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75lo 

Lob  Lie-by-the-fire,  The  brownies,  and  other  tales.     Little. 

The  first  story  tells  how  John  Broom,  the  gipsy  lad,  ran  away  from  the  little  old 
ladies  of  Lingborough,  made  friends  with  the  Highland  soldier,  McAlister,  and  came 
to  be  called  Lob  Lie-by-the-fire  or  the  Luck  of   Lingborough. 

Other  tales:  Timothy's  shoes. — Old  father  Christmas. — Benjy  in  Beastland. — The 
peace-egg. — The  land  of  lost  toys. — Three  Christmas-trees. — An  idyl  of  the  wood. — - 
Christmas  crackers. — Amelia  and  the  dwarfs. 

The  same,  and  other  tales.     Soc.  for  Promoting  Christian 
Knowledge j  Eg75lo2 

Other  tales:  Timothy's  shoes. — Benjy  in  Beastland. — So-so. — The  kyrkegrim  turned 
preacher. — The  blind  man  and  the  talking  dog. 

The  same,  and  other  tales.     Bell j  Eg75lo5 

Other  tales:  Timothy's  shoes. — Old  father  Christmas. — Benjy  in  Beastland. — The 
peace-egg. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75ma3 

Mary's  meadow,  and  other  tales  of  fields  and  flowers.     Bell. 

Story  of  the  out-door  game  of  earthly  paradise  devised  by  a  family  of  children. 
Other  tales:     Letters  from  a  little  garden. — Garden  lore. — Sunflowers  and  a   rush- 
light.— Dandelion  clocks. — The   trinity   flower. — Ladders  to   heaven. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75m3 

Melchior's  dream,  &  other  tales.     Bell. 

Other  tales:     The  blackbird's  nest. — Friedrich's  ballad. — A  bit  of  green. — Monsieur 
the  viscount's   friend. — The   yew-lane   ghosts. — A   bad   habit. — A   happy   family. 
Colored  pictures. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  821  Eg7m 

Mother's  birthday  review,  &  seven  other  tales  in  verse;  depicted  by 
R.  Andre.     Soc.  for  Promoting  Christian  Knowledge. 

Quaint  colored  pictures  and  verses. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  123 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75mr 

Mrs  Overtheway's  remembrances.    Bell. 

Stories  told  to  Ida,  a  little  sick  girl.  They  are,  Mrs  Moss. — The  snoring  ghost. — 
Reka  dom.  —  Kerguelen's  land. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  E9750 

Old-fashioned  fairy  tales.  Soc.  for  Promoting  Christian  Knowl- 
edge. 

Partial  contents:  Good  luck  is  better  than  gold. — The  hillman  and  the  housewife. 
— The  nix  in  mischief. — The  cobbler  and  the  ghosts. ■ — The  laird  and  the  man  of  peace. 
— The  ogre  courting. — Tin-  magicians'  gifts. — Kind  William  and  the  water  sprite. — The 
fiddler  in  the  fairy  ring.---"I  won't." — The  magic  jar. — The  first  wife's  wedding-ring. 
— Knave  and  fool. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  E975S 

Six  to  sixteen.    Bell. 

Margery  was  a  soldier's  daughter,  and  she  tells  the  story  of  her  experience-;  in 
India  and  in  England,  at  army  posts  and  at  school,  from  the  time  she  was  six  years 
old  until  she  was  sixteen. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  Eg75st 

Story  of  a  short  life.     Page.     (Cosy  corner  series.) 

The  scene  is  in  England  near  a  military  camp  and  the  hero  a  little  crippled  lad 
whose  one  dream  has  been  to  be  a  soldier.  His  heroic  and  pathetic  effort  to  live  up  to 
the  motto  of  his  house,  "Happy  in  my  fate,"  makes  the  story  of  his  short  life  inspiring, 
though  very  sad. 

Ewing,  Mrs  Juliana  Horatia.  j  E975W 

We  and  the  world;  a  book  for  boys.     Bell. 

The  first  part  tells  of  Jack's  home  and  school  life  in  the  north  of  England.  The 
second  part  tells  how  he  ran  away  to  sea,  made  friends  with  a  Scotch  lad  and  an  Iri^h 
boy,  and  of  the  experiences  of  all  three  while  seeing  the  world. 

Fabre,  Jean  Henri.  j  636  Fn 

Our  humble  helpers;  tr.  from  the  French  by  F.  C.  Bicknell.     1918. 

Century. 

Familiar  talks   about  chickens,   ducks   and   geese,   dogs,   horses,   sheep  and   other 

domestic  animals.     Companion  volume  to  "Story-book  of  science." 

Fabre,  Jean  Henri.  j  504  Fn 

Story-book  of  science;  tr.  from  the  19th  French  ed.  by  F.  C.  Bick- 
nell.    191".     Century. 

Uncle  Paul  tells  the  children  true  stories  of  the  wonders  in  the  plant  and  animal 
world — of  the  ants'  subterranean  city,  the  spider's  suspension  bridge,  the  caterpillars' 
procession.  He  also  tells  about  such  interesting  nature  secrets  as  thunder  and  light- 
ning, clouds  and  rain,  the  year  and  its  seasons,  volcanoes  and  earthquakes. 

Fahs,  Mrs  Sophia  Lyon.  j  92  Mi75f 

Uganda's  white  man  of  work;  a  story  of  Alexander  M.  Mackay. 
1907.    Methodist  Book  Concern.     (Forward  mission  study  courses.) 

Perilous  and  heroic  life  of  a  missionary  in  t lie  African  kingdom  of   Uganda. 

Fairford,  Ford.  j  91718  F16 

Newfoundland;  illustrations  in  colour  by  C.  G.  Lowther.  1912. 
Black.     (Feeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Account  "i  Newfoundland's  industries  and  history,  with  chapters  on  t h.  Newfound 
land  flog,  the  perils  of  the  sea,  and  the  lives  and  adventures  of  sailors  and  fishermen. 

Fairy  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j  F1692 

Contents:    The  way  to  fairyland,  by  No       Pi  Tinkey,  by  S.  A.   Sheilds.      die 

king  of  the  Golden   wo  I  McNeil.     The  ballad  of  the  blacksmith's  Bons, 

by  M.  E,  Wilkins. — Casperl,  by  H.  C.   Bunner,     The  t>n  little  dwarfs  (from  the   I 


124  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Fairy  stories — continued.  j  F1692 

of  Emile  Souvestre),  by  Sophie  Dorsey. — Giant  Thunder  Bones,  by  Stella  Doughty. — 
Wondering  Tom,  by  M.  M.  Dodge. — An  island  fable,  by  Alvred  Bayard. — -A  Spanish 
tale,  told  in  the  Spanish  way,  by  Almont  Barnes.— A  giant  in  fragments,  by  Felix  Leigh. 
— The  cooky-nut  trees,  by  A.  B.  Paine. — The  astrologer's  niece,  by  Tudor  Jenks. — The 
little  elf,  by  J.  K.  Bangs.— How  an  elf  set  up  housekeeping,  by  Anne  Cleve. — The  wish- 
ring  (tr.   from  the  German),  by  Anna   Eichberg. 

j  973-7  F21 
Famous  adventures  and  prison  escapes  of  the  Civil  war.    1898.   Century. 

Contents:  War  diary  of  a  Union  woman  in  the  South. — The  locomotive  chase  in 
Georgia. — Mosby's  partizan  rangers. — A  romance  of  Morgan's  Rough-riders. — Colonel 
Rose's  tunnel  at  Libby  prison. — A  hard  road  to  travel  out  of  Dixie. — Escape  of  Gen. 
Breckinridge. 

Exciting  stories  collected  from  the  "Century  magazine." 

Farmer,  Florence  Virginia.  j  398  F24 

Nature  myths  of  many  lands.     1910.     Amer.   Book   Co.      (Electric 

readings.) 

Such  stories  as  Why  bears  are  afraid  of  men. — Why  the  moon  follows  the  sun. — 
The  secret  of  fire. — The  origin  of  frogs. — How  a  giant  made  a  mountain. 

Myths  are  selected  from  American,  Asiatic  and  European  sources  and  are  retold 
for  the  younger  children. 

Farmer,  Mrs  Lydia  (Hoyt).  j  923.1  F24b 

Boys'  book  of  famous  rulers.     1886.    Crowell. 

Contents:  Agamemnon. — Cyrus  the  Great. — Alexander  the  Great. — Julius  Caesar. — 
Charlemagne. — Alfred  the  Great. — Richard  Cceur  de  Lion. — Robert  Bruce. — Ferdinand 
V  of  Spain. — Philip  II  of  Spain. — Gustavus  Adolphus. — Louis  XIV. — Peter  the  Great. — 
Frederick  the  Great. — Napoleon  I. 

Farmer,  Mrs  Lydia  (Hoyt).  j  923.1  F24 

Girls'  book  of  famous  queens.     1887.     Crowell. 

Contents:  Semiramis,  queen  of  Assyria. — Dido,  queen  of  Carthage. — Cleopatra, 
queen  of  Egypt. — Zenobia,  queen  of  Palmyra. — Matilda  of  Flanders. — Margaret  of  An- 
jou. — Catharine  of  Aragon. — Queen  Elizabeth  and  Mary,  queen  of  Scots. — Queen  Cath- 
erine de'  Medici. — Queen  Anne. — Maria  Theresa,  empress  of  Austria. — Catherine  II, 
empress  of  Russia. — Queen  Marie  Antoinette. — Empress  Josephine. — Empress  Eugenie. 
— Queen  Victoria. 

Farrington,  Margaret  Vere,  afterward  Mrs  Livingston.  j  398.25  F25 

Tales  of  King  Arthur  and  his  knights  of  the  Round  Table.  1888. 
Putnam. 

Stories  of  fair  ladies  and  glittering  knights,  of  jousts  and  tourneys  and  the  brave 
deeds  that  were  of  old.  For  more  stories  of  King  Arthur's  knights  read  MacLeod's 
"Book  of  King  Arthur,"  "Knightly  legends  of  Wales;"  ed.  by  Lanier,  and  Tennyson's 
"Idylls  of  the  king." 

Faulkner,  Georgene.  j  361  F27 

Red  Cross  stories  for  children,  introduction  by  H.  N.  MacCracken; 
illustrations  by  Dorothy  Dulin.     1917.     Daughaday. 

Contents:  The  good  Samaritan  of  Solferino:  Henri  Dunant. — The  lady  of  the 
lamp:  Florence  Nightingale. — The  angel  of  the  battlefield:  Clara  Barton. — The  right 
man  in  the  right  place :  Dr  E.  T.  Devine. — Sister  Julie,  a  sister  of  mercy,  a  heroine  of 
today. — Red  Cross  nurses.— The  ambulance  driver:  P.  C.  Bentley. — "Cap,"  the  Red 
Cross  dog. 

Feathers,  furs  and  fins.     1889.    Page.  j  590.4  F31 

Pictures  and  stories  of  animals  for  very  little  people. 

Fenn,  George  Manville.  j  F3621 

In  the  king's  name;  or.  The  cruise  of  the  Kestrel.     Blackie. 

Exciting  adventures  of  a  young  officer  in  King  George's  navy  with  smugglers  and 
Tacobites. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  125 


Fenn,  George  Manville.  J  F362IC 

The  kopje  garrison;  a  tale  of  the  Boer  war.     Chambers. 

Concerning  the  Boer  war  in  South  Africa  and  the  exploits  of  a  young  English 
officer  whose  bravery  wins  him  the  Victoria  cross. 

Fenn,  George  Manville.  J  F362r 

The  rajah  of  Dah.     Chambers. 

An  English  boy  and  his  uncle  collect  natural  history  specimens  among  the  jungles 
of  the  Malay  peninsula.  They  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  crafty  rajah  of  Dah  and  have 
exciting  experiences  with  wild  beasts  and  natives. 

Fenollosa,  Mrs  Mary  (McNeil),  (pseud.  Sidney  McCall).  j  811  F36 

Blossoms  from  a  Japanese  garden;  a  book  of  child-verses.     1913- 

Stokes. 

Chiefly  about  children  and  flowers.  Pictures  in  color  by  Japanese  artists,  of  the 
kindly  Ame-ya  who  models  queer  animals  of  clay,  of  miniature  gardens,  the  mist  elves, 
a  typhoon,  etc. 

Ferguson,  Harrison  Wader.  j  617.6  F38 

Child's  book  of  the  teeth.  1918.  World  Book  Co.  (New-World 
health  readers.) 

Emphasizes  the  importance  of  caring  for  the  teeth  and  the  results  of  neglect. 
The  text,  which  is  simple  enough  for  third  and  fourth  grades,  is  supplemented  by  rhymes 
and  humorous  drawings. 

Field,  Mrs  Caroline  Leslie  (Whitney).  j  F456n 

Nannie's  happy  childhood.     Houghton. 

The  little  heroine  plays  that  fairy  tales  are  true,  and  herself  becomes  a  good  fairy. 

Field,  Eugene.  j  F457I 

A  little  book  of  profitable  tales.     Scribner. 

The  first  five  are  Christmas  stories.  The  other  tales  include  fables,  allegories, 
dialect  sketches  and  pictures  of  home  life. 

Field,  Eugene.  j  811  F45I 

Love-songs  of  childhood.     1895.     Scribner. 

Includes  The  Rock-a-by  lady. — Jest  'fore  Christmas. — The  dinkey-bird. — The  duel.— 
The  delectable  ballad  of  the  Waller  lot.— Shuffle-shoon  and  Amber-locks. — The  fly-away 
horse. 

Field,  Eugene.  j  811  F45P 

Poems  of  childhood,  with  illustrations  by  Maxfield  Parrish.  1904. 
Scribner. 

Poems  from  "Love-songs  of  childhood"  and  "With  trumpet  and  drum."  Orna- 
mental cover  and  eight  full-page  pictures  in  color. 

"Wynken,  Blynken,  and  Nod  one  night 
Sailed  off  in  a  wooden  shoe — 
Sailed  on  a  river  of  crystal   light, 
Into  a  sea  of  dew. 

'Where  are  you  going,  and  what  do  you  wish?' 
The  old  moon  asked   the  three. 
'We  have  come  to  fish  for  the  herring  fish 
That  live  in  this  beautiful  sea; 
Nets  of  silver  and  gold   have  we!' 
Said  Wynken, 
Blynken, 
And  Nod." 
Field,  Eugene.  j  811  F45W 

With  trumpet  and  drum.     1896.     Scribner. 

Poems   for  and  about  children. 

Includes  ["he  MiK.-ir-plum  tree.  -Krinken.  -Little  blue  pigeon.  Wynken,  Blynken 
and    Nod.— Little   Hoy    Blue. 


126  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Field,  Roswell  Martin,  ed.  j  398  F458 

Famous  fairy  tales.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library, 
new  ser.  v.3.) 

Contents:  The  snow  queen,  The  hardy  tin  soldier,  The  fir  tree,  The  storks,  The 
silver  shilling,  Thumbelina,  The  ugly  duckling,  by  H.  C.  Andersen. — The  quern  at  the 
bottom  of  the  sea,  Little  Fred  and  his  fiddle,  The  cock  and  the  fox,  by  P.  C.  Asbjorn- 
sen. — Sylvain  and  Jocosa,  by  the  conte  de  Caylus. — Oh!  a  Cossack  fairy  tale. — The  en- 
chanted canary,  by  Charles  Deulin. — The  three  golden  hairs,  The  straw,  the  coal  and 
the  bean,  Hansel  and  Grethel,  The  frog  prince,  The  cat  who  married  a  mouse,  Fairy 
Tell-true,  The  fisherman  and  his  wife,  The  enchanted  stag,  The  tailor's  three  sons,  by 
Grimm. — The  stone  cold  heart,  by  William  Hauff. — Momotaro;  a  Japanese  fairy  tale.— 
A  water  baby,  by  Charles  Kingsley. — The  magic  swan,  by  Hermann  Kletke. — The  en- 
chanted pig,  by  N.  Kremnitz. — The  ratcatcher,  by  Ch.  Marelles. — The  king  of  the 
Golden  river,  by  John   Ruskin. 

Figyelmessy,  Mrs  Elisa  Haldeman.  j  F47it 

Two  boys  in  the  tropics.    Macmillan. 

Two  American  children  go  in  a  small  sailing  vessel  to  British  Guiana,  where  they 
live  for  a  time  the  life  of  the  tropics.  Contains  many  anecdotes  of  Sapajou  the  monkey, 
an  ant-eater,  a  sloth  and  other  queer  animal  pets.  Author  lived  for  many  years  in 
British  Guiana. 

Finch,  Adelaide  V.  j  3724  F49 

Finch  primer.     1901.     Ginn. 

Finch,  Adelaide  V.  j  3724  F4gf 

Finch  first  reader.     1901.     Ginn. 

Finn,  Francis  James.  j   Fsnt 

That  football  game,  and  what  came  of  it.     Benziger. 

Finnemore,  John.  j  961  F51 

Barbary  rovers,  containing  illustrations  in  colour  from  drawings  by 
Allan  Stewart  [and  others].     1912.    Black.     (Peeps  at  history.) 

Short  account  of  the  Barbary  corsairs  from  1492,  when  the  Moors  were  driven  from 
Spain,  to  the  capture  of  Algiers  by  the  French  in  1830.  Chapters  on  the  Knights  of 
St.  John  and  the  siege  of  Malta  in  1565,  the  battle  of  Algiers  in  1816,  the  escape  and 
redemption  of  captives  and  the  payment  of  tribute. 

Finnemore,  John.  j  914.2  F51 

England,  containing  illustrations  in  colour.     1908.     Black.     (Peeps 

at  many  lands  series.) 

Partial  contents:  In  London  town. — Old  Father  Thames. — Round  the  tors. — In 
Shakespeare's  country. — An  old  English  house. — The  playground  of  England. — Heroes 
of  the  storm. 

Finnemore,  John.  j  914.4  F51 

France,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Nico  Jungman,  and  others. 

1908.     Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

How   Nannie,  a   little   Breton  girl,   went  to   the   "pardon"   of   St.   Anne  at   Auray. 

Also  describes  journeys  in  Normandy,  along  the  Loire,  in  the  country  of  the  Camisards 

and  in  the  land  of  olives,  with  stories  and  legends  of  the  "pleasant  land  of  France." 

Finnemore,  John.  j  915.69  F51 

The  Holy  Land,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  John  Fulleylove. 
1908.     Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Partial  contents:  In  a  peasant  home. — The  Syrian  shepherd. — In  a  Syrian  city. — 
Child  life  in  the   Holy   Land. — Jerusalem. — Bethlehem. — The  sacred   river. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  127 

Finnemore,  John.  j  915.4  F51 

India,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Mortimer  Menpes.  1907. 
Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

A  journey  through  India,  telling  of  Benares,  the  sacred  city  of  the  Hindus,  of  life 
at  the  court  of  a  native  prince  and  in  an  Indian  village,  of  religious  pilgrims  and  mendi- 
cants, Parsees,  Sikh  warriors  and  Mogul  kings.  Contains  also  some  of  the  famous  old 
stories  of  Rajput  valor  and  constancy. 

Finnemore,  John.  j  914.5  F51 

Italy,  with  illustrations  in  colour.  1908.  Black.  (Peeps  at  many 
lands  series.) 

A  trip  over  the  Alps  to  Italy,  with  visits  to  Venice,  the  queen  city  of  the  Adriatic; 
Florence,  the  city  of  flowers;  Naples,  Rome,  the  buried  city  of  Pompeii,  and  the  island 
of  Sicily. 

Finnemore,  John.  j  915.2  F51 

Japan,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Ella  Du  Cane.  1908.  Black. 
(Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

All  about  boy  and  girl  life  in  the  Land  of  the  rising  sun.  Tells  among  other  things 
about  their  games,  the  feast  of  dolls,  the  flag  festival,  kite-flying  and  the  delights  of  a 
Japanese  fair.  Contains  also  the  famous  stories  of  Momotaro,  and  Urashima  the  fisher- 
boy. 

Finnemore,  John.  j  916.4  F51 

Morocco,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  A.  S.  Forrest.  1908.  Black. 
(Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Partial  contents:  In  Tangiers. — The  feast  of  the  sheep. — Children  in  Morocco. — 
How  the  sultan  travels. — The  Moor  at  home. — In  a  Berber  "ksor." — Where  the  dates 
come  from. 

Finnemore,  John.  j  914.94  F51 

Switzerland,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  A.  D.  McCormick,  and 

others.     1908.     Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Besides  tales  of  mountain  climbing,  avalanches,  chamois  hunting,  Swiss  sports,  etc., 

there  are  stories  of  the  brave  Swiss  of  old — William  Tell,  the  little  hero  of  Lucerne, 

Arnold  von  Winkelried  and  others. 

Firdausi.  j  891.5  Fsie 

The  epic  of  kings;  stories  retold  from  Firdusi  by  Helen  Zimmern. 

1883.     Holt. 

Firdausi  was  the  greatest  epic  poet  of  Persia.     His  "Book  of  kings"  tells  the  old, 

half-mythical  history  of  Persia  and  contains  the  hero  tales  of  Zal  and  Rustem. 

Firdausi.    The  epic  of  kings.    For  adaptation  see 

Renninger,   E.   D.     Story  of   Rustem,   and  other   Persian 

hero  tales j  891.5  F51X 

\\  ilmot-Buxton,  E.  M.    Stories  of  Persian  heroes j  891.5  W76 

Firth,  Emma  M.  j  292  F52 

Stories  of  old  Greece.     1894.     Heath. 

Contents:      Helios    and    Clytie. — Phaeton. — Apollo    the    beautiful. — Hyacinthus. — 
Apollo  and  the  python. — Daphne,  the  dawn  maiden. — Hermes  and  Apollo. — Baucis  and 
Philemon. — Rhoccus. — Arachne,  the  little  spinner. — Psyche. — Orpheus,   the   BWeel 
— The  story  of  the  halcyon  birds. — Prometheus. — F.pimetheus  and   Pandora. — Perseus, 
"the  sun  of  the  bright  morning." 

Fisher,  Mrs  Arabella  Burton  (Buckley).    See  Buckley,  Arabella  Burton. 

Fisher,  George  Park.  j  909  F53 

Outlines  of  universal  history.     1904.     Amer.  Book  Co. 
Valuable  for  school  work,     M  inj  helps  in  the  way  of  maps  ai 


128  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Fiske,  John.  j  973  F54h4 

History  of  the  United  States  for  schools  [to  1919]-     Houghton. 
Bibliography,  p.539-546. 
Very  valuable  for  school  work.     Treats  of  ancient  America,  colonization  of  North 

America,    the    Revolution,    the    federal    union.      Contains    also    the    constitution    of    the 

United  States,  a  table  of  states  and  territories,  a  pronouncing  vocabulary  and  many  maps 

and  pictures. 

Fiske,  John.  j  973  F54 

How  the  United  States  became  a  nation.     1904.    Ginn. 

Begins  with  the  inauguration  of  Washington  as  president  of  the  United  States  and 
ends  with  the  close  of  the  Civil  war.  Contains  an  expansion  map  of  the  United  States 
and  many  portraits. 

Fiske,  John.  j  973.3  F54 

War  of  independence  [1750-1789.]  1893.  Houghton.  (Riverside 
library  for  young  people.) 

"Collateral  reading,"  p. 195-196. 

Answers  questions  like  the  following:  "Was  the  conduct  of  the  British  government, 
in  driving  the  Americans  into  rebellion,  merely  wanton  aggression,  or  was  it  not  rather 
a  bungling  attempt  to  solve  a  political  problem  which  really  needed  to  be  solved?  Why 
were  New  Jersey  and  the  Hudson  river  so  important?  Why  did  the  British  armies  make 
South  Carolina  their  chief  objective  point  after  New  York?  Or  how  did  Cornwallis 
happen  to  be  at  Yorktown  when  Washington  made  such  a  long  leap  and  pounced  upon 
him  there?     And  so  on."     Preface. 

Flebbe,  Mrs  Beulah  Marie  (Dix).     See  Dix,  Beulah  Marie. 

Foa,  Mme  Eugenie.  j  92  Ni2gf 

Boy  life  of  Napoleon,  afterwards  emperor  of  the  French;  adapted 
and  extended  for  American  boys  and  girls  by  E.  S.  Brooks.  1895. 
Lothrop. 

About  his  childhood  in  Corsica,  his  life  at  the  military  school  in  Brienne,  as  a 
"king's  scholar"  in  Paris,  and  as  lieutenant  of  an  artillery   regiment.     Illustrated. 

Fobes,  Walter  K.  comp.  j  808.8  F68 

Five-minute  declamations.     2v.     1885-90.     Lothrop. 

Extracts  from  orations  and  speeches  for  use  in  school.  The  second  volume  has 
many  selections  from  American  orators. 

Forbes,  Cora  Belle.  j  398.2   F75 

Elizabeth's  charm-string.     Little. 

Elizabeth's  aunt  brings  her  from  Europe  a  collection  of  small  charms  associated 
with  famous  places  and  buildings,  and  the  legends  connected  with  them  are  told  to  a 
party  of  interested  girls.  Among  the  stories  are,  The  lady's  sand. — The  doge  and  the 
fisherman. — Saint  George  and  the  dragon. — The  imp  of  Lincoln. — The  legend  of  Saint 
Ursula. — The  Lorelei  legend. 

Forbes,  Edith  Emerson,  comp.  j  821.08  F75 

Favourites  of  a  nursery  of  seventy  years  ago,  and  some  others  of 
later  date.     1916.    Houghton. 

"This  collection  of  nursery  rhymes  and  ballads  has  been  selected  to  preserve  for 
the  children  of  this  century  the  quaint  little  stories  and  verses  which  were  popular  about 
a  hundred  years  ago,  and  in  later  years  of  the  nineteenth  century."     Preface. 

Forbes-Lindsay,  Charles  Harcourt  Ainslie.    See  Lindsay,  Charles  Har- 
court  Ainslie  Forbes-. 

Forrester,  Izola  L.  j  F782P 

Polly  Page  Yacht  Club.     Jacobs. 

Six  Southern  girls  spend  a  happy  summer  camping  at  Lost  island  on  the  Maine 
coast.     They  swim  and  sail  cat-boats,  form  a  yacht  club  and  take  part  in  a  regatta. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  129 

Fortescue,  John  William.  j  F792S 

Story  of  a  red  deer.     Macmillan. 

The  life  of  a  red  deer  on  Exmoor  from  the  time  he  trots  along  behind  his  mother 
to  the  day  when  he  stands  at  bay  before  the  hounds. 

Foster,  Charles.  j  220  F81 

Story  of  the  Bible  told  in  simple  language.     1877.     Foster. 

"Not  the  Bible,  nor  meant  to  take  the  Bible's  place,"  but  very  interesting  stories  of 
Bible  heroes,  Abraham  and  Isaac,  Jacob  and  his  ladder,  Joseph  and  the  Israelites  in 
bondage,  Moses  and  the  ten  plagues  of  Egypt,  Joshua  and  the  fall  of  Jericho,  Jonah 
and  the  whale,  Daniel  in  the  lions'  den  and  many  others.     Many  pictures. 

Foster,  Edwin  W.  j  684  F81 

Carpentry  and  woodwork.  191 1.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library 
of  work  and  play.) 

Chapters  on  the  designing  of  moving  toys,  chip  carving,  shop  equipment,  a  drawing 
outfit,  different  kinds  of  wood,  outdoor  carpentry,  etc.  and  directions  for  making  furni- 
ture and  many  simple  articles  for  household  use. 

Foster,  L.  C.  &  Williams,  Sherman,  comp.  j  808.8  F81 

Selections  for  memorizing.     1893.     Ginn.     (Classics  for  children.) 

Arranged  in  three  divisions:  For  primary  grades. — For  intermediate  grades. — For 
high  school  grades. 

Foster,  Mary  Hammond,  &  Cummings,  M.  H.  j  293  F81 

Asgard  stories.     1901.     Silver. 

Tales  from  Norse  mythology.  Among  them,  Tyr  and  the  wolf. — Freyja's  necklace. 
— Thor's  wonderful  journey. — The  stealing  of  Iduna. —  Skadi. —  ^Egir's  feast. —  The 
punishment  of  Loki. — The  twilight  of  the  gods. 

Foster,  Olive  Hyde.  j  716  F81 

Gardening  for  little  girls.     1917.     Duffield. 

"Books  for  the  indoor  gardener,"  p. 128-129. 

Directions  for  the  care  of  flower  and  vegetable  gardens,  shrubs  and  house  plants. 
Includes  suggestions  for  gifts  for  flower  lovers  and  a  chapter  on  the  arrangement  of 
flowers. 

Foster,  Olive  Hyde.  j  640  F81 

Housekeeping  for  little  girls.     1912.     Duffield. 

Helpful  book  for  girls  who  want  to  learn  about  taking  care  of  a  house.  Tells  the 
right  way  to  set  a  table,  how  to  plan  economical  meals  and  the  best  ways  of  cooking 
the  things  that  really  belong  together,  how  to  decorate  the  house  for  the  Christmas 
holidays  and  why  and  how  to  fight  dust  and  flies. 

Foster,  Olive  Hyde.  j  646  F81 

Sewing  for  little  girls.     1913.     Duffield. 

Tells  how  to  prepare  a  sewing  outfit  and  how  to  make  doll  clothes. 

Fouque,  baron  de  La  Motte-.     Sec  La  Motte-Fouque,  Friedrich   Hein- 

rich   Karl,  baron  de. 

Fox,  Florence  Cornelius.  j  970.1  F85 

Indian  primer.     1906.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Stories  in  simple  language  of  the  cliff-dwellers,  Zufii  Indians,  Hiawatha,  Pocahon- 
tas, the  Eskimos.     Pictures  of  Indian  life.      I  01    fil    l    or  second  g 

France,  Anatole,  {pseud,  of  Jacques  Anatole  Thibault).  qj  843  F86f 

lilies  et  gargons;  scenes  de  la  ville  et  des  champs;  illustrations  de 
Maurice-  Boutet  de  Monvel. 


130  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

France,  Anatole,  (pseud,  of  Jacques  Anatole  Thibault).  qj  F86ig 

Girls  and  boys;  scenes  from  the  country  and  the  town;  illustrated 
in  color  and  in  pen  and  ink  by  Boutet  de  Monvel.     Duffield. 

Translation  of  "Filles  et  garcons"  with  the  original  illustrations.  The  simplicity 
of  color  and  outline  makes  this  a  delightful  picture-book  for  little  children. 

France,  Anatole,  (pseud,  of  Jacques  Anatole  Thibault).  j  F86ih 

Honey-bee;  a  translation  by  Mrs  John  Lane,  illustrated  by  Florence 
Lundborg.     Lane. 

Which  tells  how  George  of  Blanchelande  and  the  golden-haired  Honey-bee  of 
Clarides  went  to  the  beautiful  lake  in  which  the  nixies  dwell,  of  the  wonderful  adven- 
ture of  George  and  of  how  Honey-bee  was  carried  away  to  the  kingdom  of  the  dwarfs 
and  became  their  princess. 

The  same;  retold  in  English  by  Peter  Wright  &  illustrated 
by  Charles  Robinson.     Dent j  F86ih2 

Title  reads  "Bee,  the  princess  of  the  dwarfs." 

France,  Anatole,  (pseud,  of  Jacques  Anatole  Thibault).  qj  843  F86 

Nos  enfants;  scenes  de  la  ville  et  des  champs;  illustrations  de 
Maurice  Boutet  de  Monvel. 

France,  Anatole,  (pseud,  of  Jacques  Anatole  Thibault).  qj  F8610 

Our  children;  scenes  from  the  country  and  the  town;  illustrated  in 
color  and  in  pen  and  ink  by  Boutet  de  Monvel.     Duffield. 

Contents:      Fanny. — The     fancy    dress     party. — The     school. — Mary. — Pan-pipes. — 
Roger's  stable. — Courage. — Catherine's  day. — The  little  sea  dogs. 
Translation  of  "Nos  enfants,"  with  the  original  illustrations. 

Francillon,  Robert  Edward.  j  292  F86a 

Gods  and  heroes;  or,  The  kingdom  of  Jupiter;  illustrated  by  Sears 
Gallagher.     1915.     Ginn. 

Stories  of  the  gods,  flower  myths,  and  legends  of  heroes,  derived  mainly  from  Ovid, 
and  told  as  far  as  possible  in  consecutive  order,  beginning  with  the  story  of  Saturn  and 
ending  with  the  judgment  of  Paris  which  "brought  upon  mankind  the  First  Great  War." 

Francis,  Joseph  Greene.  j  F8671C 

Book  of  cheerful  cats  and  other  animated  animals.     Century. 

Amusing  pictures  and  verses  relating 

"Some  Cat-land   fancies,   drawn  and  dressed 
To  cheer  your  mind  when  it's  depressed." 

Francis  W.  Parker  School,  Chicago.  qj  793.1  F86 

Lionel  of  Orkney;  a  play  by  the  pupils  of  the  eighth  grade. 

With  this  are  bound  "its  "True  Thomas"  and  "Brotherhood;  England,   1381." 

Francis  W.  Parker  School,  Chicago.  qj  793.1  F86r 

Return  of  Odysseus;  adapted  from  Butcher  and  Lang's  Odyssey 
by  the  fifth  grade,  1911-12. 

With  this  are  bound  its:  The  wrath  of  Achilles  [from  the  Iliad];  Iphigenia  at 
Aulis,  adapted  [from  the  play  by  Euripides]  ;  The  paradise  of  children,  arranged  from 
Hawthorne's  The  paradise  of  children. 

Francis  W.  Parker  School,  Chicago.  qj  793.1  F86ro 

Robin  Hood;  a  play  from  Howard  Pyle's  "Merry  adventures  of 
Robin  Hood;"  arranged  by  the  eighth  grade,  1908-09. 

With  this  are  bound  its:  Play  of  Ivanhoe  [from  Scott's  "Ivanhoe"]  ;  The  knight 
and  the  hermit,  a  play  from  "Ivanhoe;"  The  return  of  the  Douglas,  a  play  from  "The 
lady  of  the  lake." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  131 

Frank,  Maude  Morrison.  j  928  F87 

Great  authors  in  their  youth.     1915.     Holt. 

Contents:  Walter  Scott. — R.  L.  Stevenson. — W.  M.  Thackeray. — Charles  Dickens. 
— Robert  Browning. —  Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning. —  Alfred  Tennyson. —  Charlotte 
Bronte. — Charles   Lamb. — Jane  Austen. — John    Ruskin. 

Bibliography,  p. 323-324. 

Franklin,  Benjamin.  j  92  F87ga 

Autobiography,  with  a  sketch  of  Franklin's  life  from  the  point 
where  the  autobiography  ends.     1902.     Houghton. 

A  great  man  tells  simply  and  easily  the  story  of  his  own  life. 

"He  leads  us  to  Philadelphia,  one  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  and  makes  us  per- 
fectly familiar  with  life  there  and  then.  He  conducts  us  across  the  Atlantic  to  the  Court 
of  St.  James,  and  the  Court  of  Versailles.  .  .For  half  a  century  Franklin  moved  amid  the 
most  stupendous  events,  a  graphic  history  of  which  his  pen  has  recorded."  J.  S.  C. 
Abbott. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  E.  B.  Smith;  ed.  by  F.  W. 
Pine.     1916.     Holt j  92  F87ga2 

Appendix:  Electrical  kite. — The  way  to  wealth. — The  whistle. — A  letter  to  Samuel 
Mather. 

"Bibliography,"  p.343-346. 

Fraser,  Chelsea  Curtis.  j  790  F88 

Every  boy's  book  of  handicraft,  sports  and  amusements.  1913. 
Page. 

Chapters  on  wood  and  metal  working,  gymnasium  apparatus,  camping  and  wood- 
craft,   fishing,  boating,   snow   and  ice   sports,   ball   games.      Illustrated. 

Fraser,  William  Alexander.  j  F888m 

Mooswa,  and  others  of  the  boundaries.     Scribner. 

Animal  stories,  scenes  laid  in  the  northwestern  part  of  Canada. 

Frazar,  Douglas.  j  F892P 

Perseverance  island;  or,  The  Robinson  Crusoe  of  the  19th  century. 
Lothrop. 

Story  of  a  19th  century  Robinson  Crusoe;  of  his  strange  life  upon  a  desert  island 
and  his  discovery  of  a  pirate's  gold. 

Freeman,  Edward  Augustus.  j  942.01  F91 

Old-English  history  [to  1066].     1890.     Macmillan. 

Tells  who  first  lived  in  Britain,  about  the  time  of  the  Roman  conquest,  how  the 
kings  of  the  West  Saxons  became  lords  over  England  and  how  the  Danes  conquered  and 
reigned  over  the  English.  Ends  with  the  battle  of  Hastings  and  the  accession  of  William 
the  Conqueror  to  the  English  throne.     Written  for  the  historian's  own  children. 

Freeman,  Mrs  Mary  Eleanor  (Wilkins).     See  Wilkins,  Mary  Eleanor. 

French,  Allen.  j  716.6  F92 

Beginner's  garden  book;  a  textbook  for  the  upper  grammar  grades. 

1914.     Macmillan. 

Contents:      The   autumn    work. — The    winter    work. — Gardening    under    glass. — The 

real  g.irdrn. 

Useful  for  home  gardening  as  well  as  for  school  work.     Includes  a  planting  list    of 

vegetables   and   flowers,   p. 31 1-370.      Illustrated. 

French,  Allen.  j  839.6  N37f 

Heroes  of  Iceland;  adapted  from  Dasent's  translation  of  "The  story 
of  Burnt  Njal,"  the  great  Icelandic  saga,  with  a  new  preface,  introduc- 
tion and  notes.     1905.     Little. 

Tells  of  life  in  Iceland  in  the  10th  century,  of  the  matchless  champion  Gunnar,  The 
tragic  fate  of  Njal,  of  Flosi's  evil  deed  and  of  Kari's  stern  revenge. 


132  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

French,  Allen.  j  F925J 

Junior  cup.     Century. 

Story  of  school  and  camp  life. 

French,  Allen.  j  F925P 

Pelham  and  his  friend  Tim.     Little. 

Story  of  a  strike  in  a  mill-town  and  of  the  friendship  of  two  boys.  They  take  part 
in  protecting  the  mill  and  are  captured  and  carried  off  by  the  strikers. 

French,  Allen.  j  F925S 

Sir  Marrok;  a  tale  of  the  days  of  King  Arthur.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.29,  May   1902. 

The  scene  of  this  story  of  knighthood  and  of  magic  is  the  Britain  of  King  Arthur 
and  the  Round  Table.  In  it  one  may  read  of  a  noble  knight  wrought  upon  by  a  wicked 
spell  and  of  his  land  that  lay  under  the  sway  of  wrong-doers  till  he  won  his  own  again. 

French,  Allen.  j  Fg25st 

Story  of  Grettir  the  Strong.     Dutton. 

'  Tale  of  the  wild  and  lawless  days  of  the  vikings  retold  from  the  saga  "Grettir  the 
Strong."  The  fight  with  the  12  berserks,  the  wrestle  with  Karr  the  Old  in  the  chamber 
of  the  dead  and  the  combat  with  the  spirit  of  Glam,  the  thrall,  are  some  of  the  epi- 
sodes. 

French,  Allen.  j  Fg25Sto 

Story  of  Rolf  and  the  viking's  bow;   illustrated  by  B.  J.   Rosen- 

meyer.     Little. 

Exploits  of  Rolf,  the  bowman,  in  viking  land ;  how  he  became  an  outlaw  and  a 
thrall  and  how  he  won  his  freedom  and  avenged  the  unlawful  slaying  of  his  father, 
Hiarandi  the  Unlucky. 

French,  Henry  Willard.  j   F926I 

Lance  of  Kanana;  a  story  of  Arabia.    Lothrop. 

How  the  brave  Bedouin  boy,  Kanana,  "the  veiled  messenger  of  the  prophet,"  gave 
his  life  to  save  the  Arabians  from  the  hand  of  their  enemies.  Time  of  the  Roman  in- 
vasion in  the  4th  century. 

French,  Joseph  Lewis.  j  755  F92 

Christ  in  art.     1900.     Page. 

This  book  "is  simply  a  brief  effort  to  set  down  in  order  some  of  the  attempts  that 
have  been  made,  under  varying  degrees  of  inspiration  and  influence,  to  picture  the 
Saviour  and  His  lifework."  It  is  illustrated  with  reproductions  of  famous  paintings 
representing  the  Christ-child,  Christ  as  teacher  and  healer,  Christ  as  martyr,  Christ 
dead  and  arisen. 

Frink,  Henry  Allyn,  comp.  j  808.8  F95 

New  century  speaker.     1898.     Ginn. 

A  collection  of  extracts  from  the  speeches  of  Henry  Cabot  Lodge,  Chauncey  M. 
Depew,  Charles  H.  Parkhurst,  Henry  W.  Grady,  James  G.  Blaine,  James  A.  Garfield, 
Henry  Ward  Beecher,  William  H.  Seward,  Wendell  Phillips,  George  William  Curtis 
and  others,  selected  and  adapted  for  use  in  declamation.  Among  them,  The  capture  of 
Lookout  mountain. — The  doom  of  Claudius  and  Cynthia. — John  Brown  of  Osawatomie. 
■ — The  last  night  of  Misolonghi. — The  relief  of  Lucknow. — Sydney  Carton's  death. — The 
victor  of  Marengo. — Old  Ironsides. — Wolfe  at   Quebec. — Loss   of  the   Arctic. 

Froehlich,  Hugo  B.  &  Snow,  B.  E.  j  372.5  Fg5 

Text  books  of  art  education,  v. 1-7.  1904-05.  Prang  Educational 
Co. 

A  graded  series  of  lessons  in  drawing,  color-work,  design,  etc. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  133 

Froissart,  Jean.  j  940.4  F96 

Boy's  Froissart,  being  Froissart's  chronicles;  ed.  by  Sidney  Lanier. 

1895.     Scribner. 

A  stirring  tale  of  kings  and  queens,  knights  and  ladies,   sea-fights,  land-fights   and 

sieges,  written  by  the  knight  Jean  Froissart  during  the  reign  of  Edward  III  of  England 

and  his  queen  Philippa  of  Hainault. 

"For  herein  may  be  seen  chyvalrye,  curtosye,   humanyte,  frendlynesse,  hardynesse, 

love,  frendshyp,  cowardyse,  murdre,  hate,  vertue,  synne.     Doo  after  the  good,  and  leve 

the  evil,  and  it  shall  bring  you  to  good  fame  and  renommee."     William  Caxton. 

Froissart,  Jean.  j  940.4  F96C 

Chronicles  of  Sir  John  Froissart;  condensed  for  young  readers  by 
Adam  Singleton.     1900.     Appleton. 

A  book  about  the  wars  and  adventures  of  the  age  of  chivalry,  when  King  Edward 
III  and  his  son,  the  Black  Prince,  were  fighting  the  Scots  and  the  French.  It  tells 
among  other  stories  of  the  famous  victories  at  Crecy  and  Poitiers,  of  the  battle  of  the 
young  Lord  Douglas  with  Lord  Percy  at  Chevy  Chase  and  of  a  crusade  against  the 
Saracens  at  Tunis.  Introduction,  table  of  historical  events,  notes  and  many  illustrations 
from  old  prints  and  manuscripts. 

Froissart,  Jean.  j  940.4  Fg6s 

Stories  from  Froissart;  ed.  by  Henry  Newbolt.     1899.     Macmillan. 

"To  the  intent  that  the  honourable  and  noble  adventures  and  feats  of  arms  done 
and  achieved  in  the  wars  of  France  and  England  should  notably  be  enregistered  and  put 
in  perpetual  memory... I,  Sir  John  Froissart,  will  treat  and  record  a  history  of  great 
merit  and  praise." 

This  edition  contains  13  episodes,  mainly  from  the  translation  of  Lord  Berners,  in- 
cluding The  battle  of  Cressy. — The  siege  of  Calais. — The  battle  of  Poitiers. — The  death 
of  the  earl  of  Foix. — The  adventure  of  Sir  Piers  Courtenay. — The  challenge  of  the 
three  chamberlains. 

Illustrated. 

j  940.918   F96 

From  Dartmouth  to  the  Dardanelles;  a  midshipman's  log;  ed.  by  his 
mother.     1916.     Dutton. 

A  boy's  account  of  the  first  ten  months  of  the  European  war,  as  he,  a  midshipman, 
saw  it.  He  belonged  to  the  Dartmouth  cadets  and  served  on  one  of  the  ships  which 
was  torpedoed  in  the  Dardanelles. 

Frost,  William  Henry.  j  398.25  Fg6c 

The  court  of  King  Arthur;  stories  from  the  Land  of  the  Round 
Table.     1910.     Scribner. 

The  author  takes  his  readers  on  a  journey  through  the  land  of  the  Round  Table, 
weaving  in  stories  and  legends  of  the  knights  of  old.  Some  of  the  chapters  are.  The 
Round  Table. — Not  Galahad,  but  Launcelot. — The  kitchen  boy. — The  Sparrow-hawk. — • 
The  paths  that  Enid  rode. — Some  little  adventures  of  Launcelot. — How  the  scabbard 
was  lost. 

Frost,  William  Henry.  j  398.25  Fg6k 

The  knights  of  the  Round  Table.     1912.    Scribner. 
follows  "The   court  of  King   Arthur."      \s   the   travelers   visil    Glastonbury,   "the 

island  vale  of  Avalon,"  "Camelot  which  is  Winchester,"  and  other  places,  scenes  of  bat 

tic  or  of  tournament,  more  tales  are  told  of  tin    "blameless  king,"  tin-    fair  Guineven 

and  the  quest  of  the  mystic  Grail. 

Frost,  William  Henry.  j  782.2  F96 

Wagner  story  book;  tales  of  tin-  great  music  dramas.  189(1.  Scrib- 
ner. 

The  author  sits  before  the  evening  fire  with  his  little  girl  and  sees  the  legends  rise 
out  of  the  glowing  embers  one  by  one.  Among  these  firelight  tales  are,  ["he  stolen 
treasure.  The  hero  who  knew  no  fear. — The  prize  of  a  song. — The  blood-red  Bail.  I  in- 
king of  the  ( it.iil. 


134  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Frothingham,  Jessie  Peabody.  j  923-5  F97 

Sea  fighters  from  Drake  to  Farragut.     1902.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Sir  Francis  Drake. — Admiral  Tromp. — Admiral  de  Ruyter. — Marshal 
de  Tourville. — Admiral  Saint-Tropez. — Admiral  Paul  Jones. — Viscount  Nelson. — Ad- 
miral Farragut. 

Frye,  Alexis  Everett.  j  55148  F97 

Brooks  and  brook  basins.    1898.    Ginn.     (First  steps  in  geography.) 

A  little  brook  tells  stories  of  its  adventures  to  the  birds  and  flowers  along  its 
banks,   and   thus   explains    the   construction   of   watercourses. 

Frye,  Alexis  Everett.  qj  910  Fgyf 

First  steps  in  geography.     1906.     Ginn. 

Frye,  Alexis  Everett.  qj  9*0  Fg7g 

Grammar  school  geography   [Pennsylvania  edition].     1903.     Ginn. 

Fully  illustrated.  Many  maps.  The  supplement  contains  a  large  map  of  Pennsyl- 
vania and  a   description   of  its  resources,   industries,   etc. 

Fuller,  Anna.  j  Fg82b 

A  bookful  of  girls.     Putnam. 

Contents:  Blythe  Halliday's  voyage. — Artful  Madge. — The  ideas  of  Polly. — Nan- 
nie's theatre  party. — Olivia's  sun-dial. — Bagging  a  grandfather. 

Fullerton,  Edith  Loring.  j  635  F98 

The  book  of  the  home  garden.     1919.     Appleton. 

Practical  suggestions  for  the  preparation  and  care  of  a  home  garden,  including 
both    flowers   and   vegetables.      Many   illustrations   from    photographs. 

Fultz,  Francis  Marion.  j  581.54  F98 

The  fly-aways  and  other  seed  travelers.  1910.  Public-school  Pub. 
Co. 

Tells  about  the  different  kinds  of  seeds,  the  fly-aways,  sailors,  coasters  or  skaters, 
jumpers,  tramps,  swimmers,  tumblers,  goody  seeds  and  birds'  seeds ;  how  they  travel 
and  about  the  journeys  they  make. 

Fulvia,  {pseud,  of  Rachele  Saporiti).  qj  853  F98 

Storielle  serene. 

Contents:  II  palazzo  delle  scimmie. — Miccina. — Storia  di  una  farfalla. — Bali. — 
Pulcino  nero. —  Veglia. —  Grandi  e  piccoli. —  Gioiellino.  —  Sott'  acqua.  —  Burattini.  — 
Baiardo. — Una    casa   magica. 

Funck-Brentano,  Frantz.  qj  92  J32gf 

Jeanne  d'Arc  [in  French;  illustrated  by]  O.  D.  V.  Guillonnet.    1912. 

Large,  finely  illustrated  volume,  containing  40  full-page  colored  plates  representing 
scenes  in  the  life  of  the  "Maid  of  Orleans." 

Gaines,  Ruth  Louise.  j  G139I 

Little  Light  (Lucita);  a  child's  story  of  old  Mexico,  with  pictures 
by  M.  W.  Enright.     Rand. 

Lucita,  a  happy  little  Mexican  girl,  plays  in  the  beautiful  garden  of  Rosario,  goes 
a-marketing,  hears  the  story  of  Cortes  and  the  lady  of  the  fountain,  spends  a  joyous 
Easter  and  finally  goes  to  live  in  the  country   where  she  meets   President   Diaz. 

Gaines,  Ruth  Louise.  j  Gi39t 

Treasure  Flower,  a  child  of  Japan.     Dutton.      (Little   schoolmate 

series.) 

Little  "Treasure  Flower"  is  brought  up  in  the  temple  of  Benten  where  she  learns 

to  care  for  silkworms,  to  spin  and  weave;  but  she  proves  to  be  a  real  princess,  helps  to 

save  her  father's  castle  and  with  him  is  restored  to  royal  favor.     Introduces  some  of  the 

legendary  tales  of  Japan. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  135 


Gallaher,  James  E.  j  92  Lyisg 

Best  Lincoln  stories  tersely  told.     1898.     Donahue. 

Lincoln  had  a  story  for  every  occasion  and  illustrated  everything  by  anecdote. 
Here  are   ioo  of  them,  stories  he  told  himself  and  stories  told  about   him. 

Gandy,  Wallace.  j  Gi66i 

In  the  days  of  Lionheart;  illustrated  by  Jack  Orr.     Crowell. 

The  famous  history  of  George-a-Greene,  known  in  English  legends  and  ballads  as 
"the  jolly  pinder  of  Wakefield."  Robin  Hood,  Maid  Marian  and  King  Richard  are 
among  the  other  characters.  Introduces  a  mystery  play  of  the  nativity  and  many  char- 
acteristic incidents  and  events  illustrating  the  customs  of  12th  century  England  and  the 
daily  life  of  the  people,  such  as  the  annual  fair,  "the  court  of  pie  powder,"  water- 
tilting,  quarter-staff  bouts  and   other  sports. 

Gardner,  Alary.  j  372.4  G18 

Work  that  is  play;  a  dramatic  reader  based  on  yEsop's  Fables.    1908. 

Flanagan. 

Fables  and  how  to  act  them.     Among  them  are,  The  bundle  of   sticks. — The  lark 

and  her  little  ones. — The  wind  and  the  sun. — The  Arab  and  the  camel. — The  maid  and 

the  milk. — The  hare  and  the  tortoise. — The  two  travelers. 

Garland,  Hamlin.  j  Gi86b 

Boy  life  on  the  prairie.     Macmillan. 

Ploughing  and  sowing,  herding  cattle,  spearing  fish,  hunting  prairie  chickens,  kill- 
ing rattlesnakes,  hunting  wolves,  and  other  experiences  of  boys  on  the  unbroken  prairie- 
lands  of  northern  Iowa. 

Garland,  Hamlin.  j  G186I 

The  long  trail;  a  story  of  the  northwest  wilderness.     Harper. 

Perilous  undertaking  of  a  boy  who  attempts  to  reach  the  famous  Yukon  gold  fields 
by  way  of  the  old  Telegraph  trail. 

Garland,  John,  pseud.  j  Gi87r 

Ross  Grant,  tenderfoot.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

A  seventeen-year-old  boy,  sent  West  by  his  father  to  look  after  some  mining  claims 
in  Wyoming,  develops  muscle,  quick  wit  and  nerve  in  the  situations  which  he  is  obliged 
to  face  and  conquer  in  the  adventure-breeding  mountains. 

Garnett,  Mrs  Louise  (Ayres).  j  812  G19 

Master  Will  of  Stratford;  a  midwinter  night's  dream,  in  three  acts, 
with  a  prologue  and  an  epilogue.     1916.     Macmillan. 

Garnett,  Mrs  Louise  (Ayres).  qj  Gigim 

Muffin  shop,  with  pictures  by  Hope  Dunlap.     Rand. 

Rhymes  and  pictures. 

"P,ehold  the  little  Muffin  Shop, 
Where  all  the  children  love  to  stop! 
The  Muffin  Man  with  pride  and  joy 
Makes   haste  to   serve    each   girl   and   boy." 

Garnett,  Lucy  Mary  Jane,  ed.  j  398  G19 

Ottoman  wonder  tales,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Charles  Fol- 

kard.     [1915.]     Black. 

[Garrett,  Phineas,  conip.] 

Speaker's  garland.     See  Speaker's  garland. 

Gask,  Lilian.  j  590.4  G21 

Hundred  best  animals,  with  illustrations  from  original  photographs 

by  A.  F.  W.  Vogt.     [1914.]     Crowell. 

Two  children  make  friends  with  the  "Grey  Man,"  who  has  been  a  mighty  hunti 
his  day,  and  hear  from  him  many  tales  of  lions,  tigers,  bears,  seals,  elephants  and  other 
animals. 


136  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Gask,  Lilian.  j  398  G21 

Treasury  of  folk  tales.      [1917.]      Crowell. 

Contents:  Silence  (German). — Aicha's  stratagem  (Arabic). — The  Mouse  tower 
(German). — The  four  seasons  (Bohemian). — The  golden  fish  (Russian). — The  shep- 
herd and  the  dragon  (Servian). —The  two  brothers  (Slovak). — The  three  lemons 
(Turkish). 

Gask,  Lilian.  j  G2i4t 

True  stories  about  horses;  illustrated  by  Patten  Wilson.     Crowell. 

How  "the  doctor's  Jess"  defended  her  sleeping  master,  how  an  Arabian  steed  twice 
saved  a  soldier's  life,  and  15  other  stories  telling  of  the  endurance,  devotion  and  faith- 
fulness of  horses. 

Gask,  Lilian.  j  590-7  G21 

Wonders  of  the  zoo.     1908.     Dodge. 

With  his  friend  the  colonel,  Geoffrey  visits  the  London  Zoological  gardens  and 
hears  many  anecdotes  and  stories  of  the  lions,  tigers  and  other  animals  there. 

Gaskell,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Cleghorn  (Stevenson).  j  G215C 

Cranford.     Dent. 

A  delightful  picture  of  English  village  life  when  ladies  went  about  in  poke-bonnets 
and  pattens.  Tells  about  the  tea-drinkings  of  the  spinster  ladies,  Mr  Holbrook's  dinner 
party,  the  panic,  the  uncanny  feats  of  Signor  Brunoni  and  of  Mr  Peter's  happy  return. 
Colored  illustrations  by  C.  E.  Brock,  of  "dear  Miss  Matty,"  Mr  Mulliner,  Martha  and 
Jem  and  the  other  quaint  characters  of  "Cranford." 

The  same.     Cranford  ed.     Macmillan j   G215C 

Numerous  illustrations  by  Hugh  Thomson. 

Gates,  Mrs  Josephine  (Scribner).  j  G233I 

Little  Girl  Blue  lives  in  the  woods  till  she  learns  to  say  please. 
Houghton. 

Adventure  of  a  live  doll.  There  are  pictures  of  Little  Girl  Blue  and  of  the  birds, 
the  rabbits,  the  squirrels  and  the  other  little  creatures  of  the  woods,  all  of  whom  knew 
"the  magic  word,  please." 

Gates,  Mrs  Josephine  (Scribner).  j  G233m 

More  about  live  dolls.    Bobbs. 

The  live  dolls  have  a  playhouse  and  many  good  times  and  parties. 

Gates,  Mrs  Josephine  (Scribner).  j  G233S 

Story  of  live  dolls;  an  account  of  how,  on  a  certain  June  morning, 
all  the  dolls  in  the  village  of  Cloverdale  came  alive.     Bobbs. 

Gatty,  Horatia  K.  F.  afterward  Mrs  Eden.  j  92  Eg74g2 

Juliana  Horatia  Ewing  and  her  books.  Soc.  for  Promoting  Chris- 
tian Knowledge. 

"List   of   Mrs   Ewing's   works,"   p. 138-143. 

Life  of  a  famous  story-teller  told  by  her  sister.  Contains  also  a  selection  from 
Mrs  Ewing's  letters. 

Gatty,  Mrs  Margaret  (Scott),  (pseud.  Aunt  Judy).  j  828  G23 

Parables  from  nature.    2v.  in  1.     1903.     Pott. 

Partial  contents:  The  unknown  land. — A  lesson  of  hope. — The  law  of  the  wood. — 
Motes  in  the  sunbeam. — Red  snow. — The  master  of  the  harvest. — Night  and  day. — Im- 
perfect instruments.— Cobwebs.— Birds  in  the  nest. — "These  three." — A  vision. — Un- 
opened parcels. 

Gauthier  &  Deschamps.  qj  944  G24 

Petits  tableaux  d'histoire  de  France  par  l'image.     1907. 

Series  of  small  pictures  illustrating  the  history  of  France  from  early  times  to  the 
latter  part  of  the  19th  century.     Explanatory  text  in  French. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  137 

Gautier,  Judith,  afterward  Mine  Mendes.  j  G2451T1 

Memoirs  of  a  white  elephant;  tr.  from  the  French  by  S.  A.  B.  Har- 
vey, illustrated  by  L.  H.  Smith  and  S.  B.  Kite.     Duffield. 

A  royal  white  elephant  tells  the  story  of  his  eventful  life  in  Siam  and  in  the  India 
of  the  Maharajahs,  where  he  saves  his  master  from  death  and  becomes  the  guardian  of 
the  baby  princess  of  Golconda. 

Gayley,  Charles  Mills,  cd.  j  292  G25a 

Classic  myths  in  English  literature  and  in  art,  based  originally  on 

Bulfinch's  "Age  of  fable."     191 1.     Ginn. 

Contains  the  Greek  and   Roman   and   Norse  myths  and  hero  stories,   with   maps, 

pictures  of  famous  paintings  and  statues,  and  many   illustrative   English   and   American 

poems.     Useful  for  school  work. 

Gayley,  Charles  Mills,  &  Flaherty,  M.  C.  coin  p.  j  821.08  G25 

Poetry  of  the  people;  comprising  poems  illustrative  of  the  history 
and  national  spirit  of  England,  Scotland,  Ireland  and  America,  ar- 
ranged with  notes.     1904.     Ginn. 

Gaynor,  Mrs  Jessie  Love  (Smith).  j  782.8  G25 

House  that  Jack  built;  operetta  for  children;  libretto  by  A.  C.  D. 
Riley,  music  by  J.  L.  Gaynor.     1902.     Summy. 

Gellibrand,  Emma.  j  G286J 

J.  Cole.     Crowell. 

Sad  story  of  a  little  English  boy  and  his  faithful  service. 

George,  Marian  Minnie,  ed.  j  915. 1  G31 

Little  journey  to  China  and  Japan,  for  intermediate  and  upper 
grades.     1900.    Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

The  "Library  of  travel"  books  give  accounts  of  journeys  to  the  principal  countries 
of  the  world  and  tell  about  the  habits,  customs  and  conditions  of  the  people  as  seen  in 
their  homes  and  daily  occupations.  Helpful  for  school  work  in  geography.  Many  pic- 
tures. 

George,  Marian  Minnie.  j  917.291  G31 

Little  journey  to  Cuba,  for  intermediate  and  upper  grades.  1901. 
Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

George,  Marian  Minnie.  j  914.2  G31 

Little  journey  to  England  and  Wales,  for  intermediate  and  upper 
grades.     1901.     Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

In  two  parts,  the  first  telling  about  London  and  the  second  about  other  place!  in 
England  and  in  Wales  and  the  home  life  of  the  people. 

George,  Marian  Minnie,  ed.  j  914.4  G31 

Little  journey  to  France  and  Switzerland,  for  home  and  school,  in- 
termediate and  upper  grades.     1902.     Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

George,  Marian  Minnie,  cd.  j  914.3  G31 

Little  journey  to  Germany,  for  intermediate  and  upper  grades.     2v. 

in  1.     1902.     Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 
Contents:     North  Germany. — Tin-   Khineland. 

George,  Marian  Minnie.  j  917.2  G3ia 

Little  journey  to  Mexico  and  Central  America,  for  home  and 
school,  intermediate  and  upper  grades.  1901.  Flanagan.  (Library 
of  travel.) 


138  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

George,  Marian  Minnie.  j  917.291  G31 

Little  journey  to  Porto  Rico,  for  intermediate  and  upper  grades. 
1903.     Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 
Bound  with  her  "Little  journey  to  Cuba." 

George,  Marian  Minnie,  ed.  j  917-98  G31 

Little  journeys  to  Alaska  and  Canada,  for  intermediate  and  upper 

grades.     1901.     Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 
"Little  journey  to  Alaska"  is  by  E.  K.  Poyer. 

George,  Marian  Minnie,  ed.  j  914.96  G31 

Little  journeys  to  Balkans,  European  Turkey  and   Greece.     1905. 

Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

George,  Marian  Minnie.  j  919.6  G31 

Little  journeys  to  Hawaii  and  the  Philippine  islands.  1901.  Flana- 
gan.    (Library  of  travel.) 

George,  Marian  Minnie,  &  Dean,  M.  I.  j  914.92  G31 

Little  journeys  to  Holland,  Belgium  and  Denmark.  1902.  Flana- 
gan.    (Library  of  travel.) 

George,  Marian  Minnie,  ed.  j  914.7  G31 

Little  journeys  to   Russia  and  Austria-Hungary.     1906.    Flanagan. 

(Library  of  travel.) 

"Little  journey  to  Austria-Hungary"  is  by  F.  J.  Koch. 

George,  Marian  Minnie.  j  372  G3ia2 

Primary  plan  book.    3v.     1912.     Flanagan. 

v.i.     Autumn;    September,   October,    November. 
v.2.     Winter;    December,   January,   February. 
v.3.     Spring;   March,  April,   May,   June. 

Suggestions   to   primary    school    teachers    for   a   year's   work,    including    nature    and 
science   study,   literature,  etc.      Contains   numerous   stories,   poems  and   songs. 
Revised  edition  of  her  "Plan  book." 

Gibbon,  J.  M.  ed.  j  398  G36 

Old  King  Cole.     1901.     Dent.     (True  annals  of  fairy  land.) 

Stories  supposed  to  have  been  told  at  the  court  of  old  King  Cole.  There  is  the 
adventure  of  Gulliver  in  the  land  of  the  Brobdingnag  giants,  the  right  merry  tale  of 
Tom  Hickathrift,  the  story  of  Prospero  and  Miranda,  and  of  the  queen  who  was  once 
a  princess  in  disguise,  and  many  another. 

Illustrated  by  Charles  Robinson. 

Giberne,  Agnes. 

The  mighty  deep,  and  what  we  know  of  it.  See  her  Romance  of  the 
mighty  deep. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Giberne,  Agnes.  j  551.46  G36r 

Romance  of  the  mighty  deep;  a  popular  account  of  the  ocean,  the 
laws  by  which  it  is  ruled,  its  wonderful  powers  and  strange  inhabitants. 
Ed.2.     1905.     Lippincott. 

Partial  contents:  Rivers  in  the  sea. — Ice-needles  to  ice-mountains. — How  chalk  is 
made. — Coral  architects. — Armoured  myriads  and  monsters. — Behemoths  of  the  ocean. 
— "Down  to  the  sea  in  ships." 

Also  published  under  the  title  "The  mighty  deep,  and  what  we  know  of  it." 

Giberne,  Agnes.  j  523  G36 

Sun,  moon  and  stars;  astronomy  for  beginners.  1893.  Amer.  Tract 
Soc. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  139 

Gibson,  Charles  R.  j  550  G369 

The  great  ball  on  which  we  live;  an  interestingly  written  descrip- 
tion of  our  world,  the  mighty  forces  of  nature  &  the  wonderful  ani- 
mals which  existed  before  man,  all  described  in  simple  language.  1915. 
Seeley.     (Science  for  children.) 

Gibson,  Charles  R.  j  523  G369 

The  stars  and  their  mysteries;  an  interestingly  written  account  of 
the  wonders  of  astronomy,  told  in  simple  language.  1916.  Lippincott. 
(Science  for  children.) 

Gibson,  Charles  R.  j  355  G36 

War  inventions  and  how  they  were  invented;  an  interestingly  writ- 
ten description  of  the  many  appliances  and  weapons  used  in  war,  and 
how  they  work,  told  in  simple  language.  1918.  Seeley.  (Science  for 
children.) 

Contents:  How  guns  were  invented. — How  guns  were  made  to  shoot  straight. — 
Guns  that  fire  1,000  shots  per  minute. — Giant  guns. — What  is  an  explosive? — How 
shells  were  invented. — How  we  came  to  make  iron  ships. — Ships  that  go  under  the 
sea. — Some  questions  about  submarines. — About  the  deadly  torpedo. — How  torpedos 
and  mines  are  exploded. — A  very  dangerous  occupation. — The  eye  of  the  submarine. — 
Measuring  the   distance  to   the  enemy. — Ships  that  go   up   in   the   air. — War   in   the  air. 

Gibson,  William  Hamilton.  j  581.16  G37 

Blossom  hosts  and  insect  guests;  how  the  heath  family,  the  bluets, 
the  figworts,  the  orchids  and  similar  wild  flowers  welcome  the  bee, 
the  fly,  the  wasp,  the  moth  and  other  faithful  insects;  ed.  by  E.  E. 
Davie.     1901.     Newson. 

Illustrated  by  the  author. 

Gibson,  William  Hamilton.  j  570.4  G37e 

Eye  spy;  afield  with  nature  among  flowers  and  animate  things. 
1897.     Harper. 

Chapters  on  beetles,  grasshoppers,  snakes,  cocoons,  mushrooms,  tendrils,  etc.  Beau- 
tifully illustrated  by  the  author. 

Gibson,  William  Hamilton.  j  570.4  G37S 

Secrets  out  of  doors,  told  and  illustrated.     1913.     Harper. 

Contents:     Odd   ways  of  insects. — Glimpses  of  wild  life. — Curiosities   of   pi 
Selections  from  his  "Eye  spy,"  "Sharp  eyes,"  and  other  books. 

"Not  formal  nature  study.  It  is  rather  a  walk  and  talk  with  a  keen  artist-naturalist 
who  points  out  to  boys  and  girls  the  strange  things  of  the  woods  and  fields."  Intro- 
duction. 

Gibson,  William  Hamilton.  j  570.4  G37 

Sharp  eyes;  a  rambler's  calendar  among  insects,  birds  and  flowers. 
1893.     Harper. 

Explains  various  phenomena   in   the  bird,   insect  and    fl  tferent 

seasons  of  the  year.  Such  titles  as  A  butterfly  serenade. — The  "partridge"  and  his 
mysterious  "drum." — Winter-bud  secrets. — The  insect  orchestra  and  its  various  Instru- 
ments.— Ballooning  seeds. — Wonders  of  the  fungus. — Among  the  birds'  nests. — Stories 
in  the  snow. 

Exquisite  illustrations  by  the  author. 

Gilbert,  Mrs  Ann  (Taylor).    See  Taylor,  Ann. 


140  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Gilbert,  Ariadne.  j  920  G38 

More  than  conquerors.     1915.     Century. 

Contents:  The  deaf  musician  (Beethoven). — Partners  in  pluck  (Lamb). — Beloved 
of  men — and  dogs  (Scott). — The  sunny  master  of  "Sunnyside"  (Irving). — Louisa  Al- 
cott's  neighbor  (Emerson). — A  Swiss  boy  and  his  wanderings  (Agassiz). — A  modern 
Greatheart  (Thackeray). — The  torchbearer  of  the  Dark  Continent  (Livingstone). — A 
great  life-saver  (Pasteur). — Through  failure  to  success  (Brooks). — The  star-shower  baby 
(Booth). — The  lighthouse-builder's  son  (Stevenson). — The  magic  touch  (Saint-Gaudens). 
— The  Matterhorn  of  men   (Lincoln). 

Gilliat,  Edward.  j  G4151 

Forest  outlaws;  or,  Saint  Hugh  and  the  king.     Dutton. 

Boy  and  girl  life  in  English  cloisters  during  the  12th  century,  also  adventures  with 
the  forest  outlaws   Robin  Hood  and  Clym  of  the   Clough. 

Gilliat,  Edward.  j  G415IC 

The  king's  reeve  and  how  he  supped  with  his  master.     Dutton. 

A  story  of  England  in  the  days  of  "Long  Edward,  our  king."  There  is  fighting  in 
Wales,  hunting  and  hawking,  and  great  merrymaking  at  the  reeve's  the  night  he  enter- 
tained his  master  unawares. 

Gilliat,  Edward.  j  G415W 

Wolf's  head;  a  story  of  the  prince  of  outlaws.     Seeley. 

Adventurous  tale  of  the  time  of  King  John,  the  leading  character  being  Robin 
Hood. 

Gilman,  Arthur.  j  973.2  G42 

Colonization  of  America.     1887.     Lothrop.     (Historical  readers.) 

Follows  "Discovery  and  exploration  of  America,"  and  carries  the  story  of  the 
United  States  down  to  the  time  when  the  relations  between  the  Americans  ami  the 
mother-country  were  becoming  "strained"   and   independence   was  not   far   off. 

Gilman,  Arthur.  j  973.1  G42 

Discovery  and  exploration  of  America.  1887.  Lothrop.  (Histor- 
ical readers.) 

Account  of  the  early  explorers,  simply  written.  First  of  a  series  of  historical 
readers. 

Gilman,  Arthur,  ed.  j  904  G42 

Magna  charta  stories.     1882.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  The  great  paper,  by  H.  D.  S.  McKenzie. — Horatius  at  the  bridge,  by 
A.  B.  Harris. — A  successful  secession,  by  Mary  Blake. — Miltiades  at  Marathon,  by 
Arthur  Gilman. — Two  immortal  names,  by  L.  W.  Champney. — At  the  toe  of  the  big 
boot,  by  Susan  Coolidge.— The  triumph  of  an  idea,  by  Mrs  M.  E.  W.  Sherwood. — The 
hammer  of  the  Gentiles  [Judas  Maccabeus],  by  A.  L.  Dawes. — In  the  German  woods 
long  ago,  by  Arthur  Gilman. — The  barbarian's  overthrow,  by  Mrs  R.  H.  Lathrop. — 
The  hammer  of  the  Saracens  [Charles  Martel],  by  Mrs  M.  H.  Catherwood. — Out  of 
the  dark,  by  Arthur  Gilman. 

Gilman,  Arthur.  j  973  G42 

Making  of  the  American  nation.  1893.  Lothrop.  (Historical 
readers.) 

Begins  with  the  War  of  the  revolution  and  shows  how  the  American  colonies  be- 
came "a  nation  full  grown." 

Gilman,  Arthur.  j  422  G42 

Short  stories  from  the  dictionary.     1886.     Lothrop. 
Partial  contents:    How  words  have  changed  their  meanings. — Can  a  word  be  killed? 

—Can  you   make  a   word? — Names  from  countries. — Civilized  and  countrified. — Names 

for  noises. — Handy  words. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  141 

Gilman,  Arthur.  j  97446  G42 

Story  of  Boston.     1890.     Putnam. 

Chiefly  the  early  history  of  the  colony  to  the  time  of  the  Revolution,  though  later 
events  are  touched  upon  briefly.  The  style  "has  a  quaint  and  Scriptural  flavor  that 
lends  itself  very  agreeably  to  an  account  of  the  doings  of  men  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury...The  author  is  unusually  accurate."     Nation,  1890. 

Maps,  portraits,  and  illustrations  of  famous  buildings  and  historic  places. 

Gilman,  Elizabeth  Hale.  j  640  G42 

Housekeeping.  1911.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library  of  work  and 
play.) 

Suggestions  about  all  sorts  of  housekeeping  matters,  such  as  planning  work,  keep- 
ing accounts,  care  of  fittings  and   furniture,   marketing,   cooking,  washing  and   ironing. 

Gilman,  Mary  Louise,  &  Williams,  E.  B.  j  372.5  G42 

Seat  work  and  industrial  occupations;  a  practical  course  for  primary 
grades.     1916.     Macmillan. 

Chiefly  paper  cutting  and   folding.     Includes  suggestions  for   special   days. 

Gilson,  Jewett  Castello.  j  910  G42 

Wealth  of  the  world's  waste  places  and  Oceania.  1913.  Scribner. 
(Redway's  geographical  readers.) 

In  pt.i,  the  arid  Southwest,  Death  valley,  Siberia,  the  Sahara  desert,  the  polar  re- 
gions and  other  "waste  places"  are  described  and  their  relation  to  the  rest  of  the  world 
indicated.     Pt.2   deals  with  Australia  and  the  islands  of  the  Pacific. 

Giovagnoli,  Raffaello  Massimiliano.  j  853  G44 

Spartaco;  racconto  storico  del  secolo  VII  dell'  era  romana.    2v. 

Gladden,  Washington.  j  G457S 

Santa  Claus  on  a  lark,  and  other  Christmas  stories.     Century. 

Other  stories:  A  Christmas  dinner  with  the  man  in  the  moon. — Tom  Noble's 
Christmas. — Strange  adventures  of  a  wood-sled. — An  angel  in  an  ulster. — Mr  Halibur- 
ton  Todd's  surprise  party. — Emil's  Christmas  gift. — Santa   Claus   in  the  pulpit. 

Gladwin,  William  Zachary,  pseud.    See  Zollinger,  Gulielma. 

Glover,  Ellye  Howell.  j  790  G51 

"Dame  Curtsey's"  book  of  games  for  children  for  indoors  and  out- 
doors and  all  occasions.     1914.     McClurg. 

Will  help  in  planning  parties  for  birthdays,  Christmas,  Easter,  Hallowe'en  and  other 
occasions.     Topical  index. 

Goho,  Stephen  O.  j  974-8  G57 

Pennsylvania  reader,  historical  and  patriotic.  1897.  Amer.  Book 
Co. 

Hero  sketches  and  interesting  bits  of  history.  Good  for  supplementary  reading. 
Includes  "The  rising,"  by  T.  B.  Read;  "The  battle  of  the  kegs,"  by  Francis  Hopkinson; 
"Keenan's  charge,"  by  G.  P.  Lathrop;  "John  Burns  of  Gettysburg,"  by  Brel  Harte,  and 
other  spirited  verse. 

Golding,  Vautier.  j  92  L749g 

Story  of  David  Livingstone.  [1906.]  Jack.  (Children's  heroes 
series.) 

Short  life  of  the  explorer-missionary.  Tells  of  the  horrors  of  the  African  slave- 
trade  and  the  indomitable  courage  of  Livingstone,   who  helped  to  break  it   up. 

Goldsmith,  Oliver.  j  822  G58 

She  stoops  to  conquer.     1886.     Harper. 
The  mistakes  of  one  night;  .i  comedy,  with  drawings  by  K.  A.   Abb 


i42  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Goldsmith,   Oliver.  j   G588V 

Vicar  of  Wakefield.    Dutton. 

Being  an  account  of  the  various  calamities  which  befell  the  Primrose  family  and 
how  at  last  fortune  did  change  in  their  favor;  an  English  idyl  delightfully  illustrated  in 
color  by  C.  E.  Brock. 

The  same;  with  illustrations  by  Hugh  Thomson.     Cranford 

ed.     Macmillan j  G588V 

The  same;  illustrated  by  E.  J.  Sullivan.     Holt qj  G588V2 

Sixteen  color  plates  and  many  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

Gomme,  Mrs  Alice  Bertha,  &  Sharp,  C.  J.  ed.  qj  784.8  G59 

Children's  singing  games.  5  pts.  in  iv.  1909-12.  Novello.  (No- 
vello's  school  songs.) 

Old  English  games  such  as,  London  bridge. — Oats  and  beans. — Three  dukes. — The 
jolly  miller. — Jenny  Jones.— The  Roman  soldiers.  Gives  words,  simple  melodies  and 
directions  for  playing. 

Gomme,  George  Laurence,  ed.  j  G597IC 

King's  story  book;  historical  stories  collected  out  of  English  ro- 
mantic literature  in  illustration  of  the  reigns  of  English  monarchs 
from  the  conquest  to  William  IV.    Constable. 

Partial  contents:  How  a  hero-king  fought  and  died  for  England. — How  a  king's 
son  was  drowned. —The  return  of  the  Lion-heart. — A  castle  held  for  the  king. — How  the 
Spanish  Armada  was  defeated. — The  king  he  would  a  hunting  go. — A  shot  for  freedom. 
■ — The  sound  of  revelry  and  of  war. 

Gomme,  George  Laurence,  ed.  j  G597pr 

Prince's    story   book;    historical    stories    collected    out   of    English 

romantic  literature  in  illustration  of  the  reigns  of  English  monarchs 

from  the  conquest  to  Victoria.     Constable. 

Authors  include  Scott,  Thackeray,  Lord  Lytton,  Thomas  Love  Peacock,  Ainsworth, 

Cooper  and  Lord  Beaconsfield.    Among  the  stories  are,  Queen  Philippa  and  the  men  of 

Calais. — The  last  hope  of  the  Red  Rose. — How  the  princess  Elizabeth  won  her  first  case. 

— How  Sir  Walter  Raleigh  used  his  cloak. — At  the  court  of  the  king. — When  the  prince 

was  prince  indeed. — Bonnie  Prince  Charlie. 

Gomme,  George  Laurence,  ed.  j  G597P 

Princess's  story  book;  historical  stories  collected  out  of  English 
romantic  literature  in  illustration  of  the  reigns  of  English  monarchs 
from  the  conquest  to  Queen  Victoria.     Constable. 

Partial  contents:  In  camp  and  tent. — -The  battle  of  Poictiers. — The  wooing  of  a 
princess. — A  discrowned  queen. — A  message  of  fate. — Princess  Elizabeth  sent  to  the 
Tower. — How  the  good  king  tried  to  mend  a  bad  business. — At  the  fire  of  London. — A 
border  raid  in  the  prince's  name. — For  country  or  for  king. 

Gomme,  George  Laurence,  ed.  j  G597q 

Queen's  story  book;  historical  stories  collected  out  of  English 
romantic  literature  in  illustration  of  the  reigns  of  English  monarchs 
from  the  conquest  to  Queen  Victoria.     Constable. 

Partial  contents:  How  the  queen  of  the  forest  met  the  king  of  the  land. — At  the 
court  of  King  Edward. — When  England  and  Spain  were  friends. — How  the  queen  visited 
her  favourite  at  Kenilworth. — The  battle  of  Edgehill. — The  fall  of  Argyle. — Plotting  for 
the  Stuarts. — How  the  gage  of  the  Guelphs  was  taken. — A  story  of  the  Chartist  riots. 

Good,  Arthur,  {pseud.  Tom  Tit).  j  133  G62m 

Magical  experiments;  or,  Science  in  play.     1894.     McKay. 

Many  wonder-working  experiments  which  may  be  performed  without  any  special 
apparatus.  Among  them,  tells  how  to  pierce  a  nickel  with  a  needle,  how  to  make  a 
banana  peel  itself,  how  to  make  an  egg  waltz,  how  to  make  pins  and  needles  float,  how 
to  weigh  a  letter  with  a  broomstick,  how  to  cut  glass  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  how  to 
whirl  a  glass  of  water  without  spilling  a  drop,  how  to  make  a  pair  of  scales  out  of  thread. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS     AITHOR  LIST  143 

Goodlander,  Mabel  Ray.  j  793.1  G62 

Fairy  plays  for  children.     1915.     Rand. 

Contents:  The  honest  woodcutter. — Mistress  Mary  gives  a  garden  party. — The 
pine  tree. — The  house  in  the  woods. — The  elves  and  the  shoemaker. — Snow  White  and 
Rose  Red. — King  Midas;  or,  The  golden  touch. — Snow  White  and  the  seven  dwarfs. — 
Sleeping  beauty. 

Intended  for  children  six  to  ten  years  of  age  and  arranged  in  order  of  difficulty. 
Suggestions  are  given   (p. 1 17-137)   for  dances,  costumes  and  properties. 

Goodwin,  Mrs  Walter  L.    Sec  Sage,  Betty. 

Goody  Two  Shoes.  j  G636h 

History  of  little  Goody  Two  Shoes,  otherwise  called  Mrs  Margery 
Two  Shoes;  ed.  by  Charles  Welsh.     Heath. 

''The  means  by  which  she  acquired  her  learning  and  wisdom,  and  in  consequence 
thereof  her  estate;  set  forth  at  large  for  the  benefit  of  those 

Who  from  a  state  of  Rags  and  Care, 
And  having  Shoes  but  half  a  Pair; 
Their    Fortune    and    their    Fame    would    fix, 
And  gallop  in  a  Coach  and  Six." 

"The  first  book  particularly  intended  for  children,  which  has  become  a  classic." 
Attributed  to  Oliver  Goldsmith. 

Gordon,  Col.  H.  R.  pseud.    See  Ellis,  Edward  Sylvester. 

Gordy,  Wilbur  Fisk.  j  940  G66 

American  beginnings  in  Europe.     1912.     Scribner. 

Contents:  The  present  and  the  past. — The  Greeks  and  what  we  have  learned  from 
them. — The  Romans  and  what  we  have  learned  from  them. — The  middle  ages  and  what 
we  have  learned  from  them. — The  crusades  and  commerce. — The  discovery  of  the  West- 
ern world. — Rival  powers  in  Europe  and  America. 

For  sixth  grade.  Based  upon  the  outline  prepared  by  the  Committee  of  eight  of 
the  American  Historical  Association.     Good  maps  and  pictures. 

Gordy,  Wilbur  Fisk.  j  973  G66 

Elementary  history  of  the  United  States.     1912.     Scribner. 

Gordy,  Wilbur  Fisk.  j  973.1  G66 

Stories  of  American  explorers;  a  historical  reader.     1906.    Scribner. 

Contents:  Christopher  Columbus. — The  Indians. — Hernando  Cortez. — Francisco 
Pizarro. — Ponce  de  Leon  and  Panfilo  de  Narvaez. — Hernando  de  Soto. — Sir  Francis 
Drake. — Sir  Walter  Raleigh. — Henry  Hudson. — Samuel  de  Champlain. — Louis  Joliet 
and  Father  Marquette. — Cavalier  de  La  Salle. 

Adapted  for  fourth  and  fifth  grades. 

Goss,  Warren  Lee.  j  92  Ss52g 

Boys'  life  of  General  Sheridan.     1913.     Crowell. 

Chiefly  an  account  of  his  campaigns  in  the  Civil  war. 

Goss,  Warren  Lee.  j  G698ja 

Jack  Alden.     Crowell. 

A  boy's  adventures  in  the  Virginia  campaigns  and  how  he  escaped  from  Libby 
in  ison. 

Goss,  Warren  Lee.  j  G698J 

Jed;  a  boy's  adventures  in  the  army  of  '6i-'65.     Crowell. 

"The  incidents  of  the  book  are  real  ones,  drawn  in  part  from  the  writer's  personal 
experiences  and  observations,  as  a  soldier  of  the  Union. ..He  is  also  indebted  to  man y 
comrades  for  reminiscences  of  battle  and  prison  life."     f'refaee. 


144  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Goss,  Warren  Lee.  j  G6g8t 

Tom  Clifton.     Crowell. 

"The  hero  is  a  minister's  son  of  the  proverbial  kind,  and  the  story  deals  not  only 
with  his  life  in  Grant's  and  Sherman's  army  from  '61  to  '65,  but  with  his  previous  trip 
from  the  Atlantic  coast  to  the  Northwest,  and  his  life  in  the  latter  region."  Prentice 
and  Power's  A   children's  library. 

Gould,  Allen  Walton.  j  570.4  G73 

Mother  Nature's  children.     1900.     Ginn. 

Nature  study  reader.  Such  chapter  headings  as  How  the  plants  cradle  their  babies. 
— How  Mother  Nature  sets  the  table  for  birds. — How  Mother  Nature  clothes  the  mam- 
mals.— How  seeds  learn  to  fly. — Helping  each  other  in  the  early  family.— How  the  in- 
sects lay  up  food. 

Gould,  Elizabeth  Lincoln.  j  793-1  G73 

"Little  men"  play;  a  two-act,  45-minute  play;  adapted  from  L.  M. 
Alcott's  famous  story  "Little  men,"  with  pictures  by  R.  B.  Birch.  1900. 
Little. 

Gould,  Frederick  James.  j  920  P72zg 

Children's  Plutarch;  tales  of  the  Greeks  by  F.  J.  Gould,  with  an 
introduction  by  W.  D.  Howells.     1910.     Harper. 

Binder's  title  reads  "Plutarch's  tales;  Greeks." 

There  are  stories  of  the  hardy  men  of  Sparta  and  of  the  brave  warriors  of  Athens; 
of  Aristides,  the  just  man;  Cimon,  the  admiral  of  the  fleet,  and  Alcibiades,  the  man 
with  many  faces;  of  Demosthenes  the  orator,  Alexander  the  Great  and  other  famous  men 
of  Greece. 

Ethical  index,  p.  165-1 67. 

Gould,  Frederick  James.  j  920  P72zgc 

Children's  Plutarch;  tales  of  the  Romans  by  F.  J.  Gould,  with  an 
introduction  by  W.  D.  Howells.     1910.     Harper. 

Binder's  title  reads   "Plutarch's  tales;    Romans." 

Partial  contents:  The  man  who  waited. — -How  a  woman  saved  Rome. — A  Roman 
undismayed. — The  general  who  ate  dry  bread. — The  red  general. — The  man  who  loved 
gold. — The  conqueror  of  pirates. — The  man  who  seldom  laughed. — Two  noble  brothers. 
— The  man  who  looked  like  Hercules. — Caesar's  friend  and  enemy. 

Ethical  index,  p.  169-171. 

Gould,  Frederick  James.  j  172  G73 

Heroes  of  peace,  with  introduction  by  G.  P.  Gooch.  1915.  Harper. 
(Brave  citizens.) 

Incidents  selected  from  history,  biography  and  the  annals  of  industry,  presented  in 
story  form  with  the  aim  of  teaching  the  ideals  of  peace,  love  of  humanity  and  the 
heroism  of  every-day  life.  Approved  by  the  committee  of  the  International  Arbitration 
and  Peace  Association. 

Gould,  Sabine  Baring-   &  Sheppard,  H.  F.  comp.  qj  784.4  G73 

Garland  of  country  song;  English  folk  songs  with  their  traditional 
melodies.     1895.     Methuen. 

Includes,  The  cuckoo. — Bold  General  Wolfe. — Green  besoms. — The  jolly  waggoner. 
■ — The  drummer  boy. — The  lark  in  the  morn. — The  carrion  crow. — Hark!  hark!  the  wars. 

Gould,  Sabine  Baring-  j  G739g 

Grettir  the  outlaw;  a  story  of  Iceland.    Blackie. 

Saga  story  telling  how  Grettir  the  Strong  became  an  outlaw  and  of  his  adventures 
and  exploits  in  Iceland  and  in  Norway. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  145 

Gowdy,  Jean  L.  comp.  j  808.8  G75 

Special  days  in  school,  with  literary  selections.  1902.  School  Edu- 
cation Co. 

Contains  selections  and  references  appropriate  to  Thanksgiving  day,  Christmas, 
Lincoln's  and  Washington's  birthdays,  Arbor  day,  Bird  day,  Memorial  day,  and  the 
birthdays  of  prominent  American  poets. 

Grabau,  Mrs  Mary  (Antin).     Sec  Antin,  Mary. 

Graham,  Peter  Anderson.  j  796  G77 

Country  pastimes  for  boys.     1908.     Longmans. 

Partial  contents:  Birds'-nesting. — Familiar  birds  for  taming. — Poultry  and  pigeons. 
—  Miscellaneous  pets. — Fishing  without  tackle. — Common  pond  and  river  fish. —Ram- 
bling.— Nutting. — Poisonous  plants  and  berries. — Tobogganing  and  sliding. — Toy-boat 
making  and  sailing. — -Tops. — Knucklebones. — Some  open-air  games. 

Grahame,  Kenneth,  ed.  j  821.08  G77 

Cambridge  book  of  poetry  for  children;  decorations  by  Maud  Ful- 
ler.    1916.     Putnam. 

Unusually  good  selection,  chiefly  lyrical  in  character.  Includes  rhymes  and  jin- 
gles for  the  younger  children,  poems  of  fairyland  and  dreamland,  of  heroes  and 
knights,  of  green  seas  and  sailor  men. 

Gray,  Asa.  j  581  G81 

How  plants  behave.  1872.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Botany  for  young 
people.) 

How  plants  move  and  climb,  how  they  employ  insects  and  how  they  cross-fertilize 
their  flowers.     A  companion  volume  to  "How  plants  grow." 

Gray,  Asa.  j  581  G8ih 

How  plants  grow.  1858.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Botany  for  young  peo- 
ple.) 

Chapters  on,  How  plants  grow  and  what  their  parts  or  organs  are. — How  plants  arc 
propagated  or  multiplied  in  numbers. — Why  plants  grow;  what  they  are  made  for,  and 
what   they  do. — How  plants  are   classified,   named   and   studied. 

The  second  part  gives  a  classification  and  description  of  the  common  plants  of  the 
country. 

Greenaway,  Kate.  j  716.2  G83 

Language  of  flowers;  illustrated  by  Kate  Greenaway.     Warne. 
Gives  the  meaning  attached  to  different  plants  and  flowers,  as  bluebell — consi 

candytuft — indifference.     Also  contains  some  flower  poems,  Daffodils. — The  rose. — The 

sensitive  plant. — To  a  mountain  daisy,  and  others. 
Delicately  colored  illustrations. 

Greenaway,  Kate.  qj  821  G83 

Marigold   garden.      Warne. 

Rhymes  and  colored   pictures. 

Greenaway,  Kate.  j  821  G83U 

Under  the  window.     Warne. 

Picture-book  with   verses. 

Greene,  Frances  Nimmo,  &  Kirk,  1).  W.  j  94°-4  G83 

With  spurs  of  gold;  heroes  of  chivalry  and  their  deeds.  1910. 
Little. 

Contents:     Introductory. — "This   is   the   rule   for   the   gallant   knight." — A    Meed  !    a 
Roland   and   Oliver. — The  Cid   Rodrigo    Diaz   de    Bivar. — The   Cid's  wedding. 
Godfrey    and    tin-    first    crusade. — The    troubadour.     The    carrier    dove      The 
knight    -Richard  Coeur-de-Lfcm.    -Richard's  lament.  -The  last  crusader.     The  chevaliei 
Rayard. — Sir  Philip  Sidney.      Sidney   in   tournament. 


146  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Greene,  Homer.  j  622.33  G83 

Coal  and  the  coal  mines.     1889.     Houghton. 

"Glossary  of  mining  terms,"  p.233-241. 

Tells  about  the  discovery  of  coal,  its  introduction  into  general  use,  how  it  is  mined 
and  prepared  for  market,  how  the  miners  live  and  something  about  their  wages. 

Greene,  Homer.  j  G8351 

The  flag  [a  story].    Jacobs. 

Patriotic  story  of  a  boy  who  unthinkingly  desecrates  the  Stars  and  Stripes  and  is 
ostracized  by  his  schoolmates.  After  the  outbreak  of  the  European  war  he  enlists  in  the 
American  Legion,  fights  in  the  battle  of  the  Somme  and  proves  his  love  of  country  and 
of  flag. 

Greene,  Maria  Louise.  j  716.6  G83 

Among  school  gardens.  191 1.  Charities  Publication  Committee. 
(Russell  Sage  foundation.) 

"Bibliography,"    p-343~375- 

Covers  not  only  the  school  garden  as  it  is  ordinarily  understood,  but  some  of  the 
big  experimental  gardens  which  almost  approach  farms  in  size,  vacant  lot  gardens, 
back-yard  and  front-yard  patches — in  fact,  everything  down  to  a  window-box.  Practical 
in  its  directions  for  choosing  soils,  kinds  of  seeds  to  plant,  time  for  planting,  etc. 

Greenwood,  Grace,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Sara  Jane  j  914.2  G85 

(Clarke)  Lippincott). 

Merrie  England;  travels,  descriptions,  tales  and  historical  sketches. 
1908.     Ginn. 

Contents:  Sherwood  forest:  Robin  Hood. — Nottingham  castle:  Alice  Vane.— 
Warwick  castle :  Guy  of  Warwick. — York  minster :  Queen  Philippa. — London  and  the 
Tower:  Sir  Walter  Raleigh. — Ladies  Jane  and  Catharine  Grey. — Arabella  Stuart. — 
Westminster  abbey  :  The  two  wills. — The  new  palace  of  Westminster  :  The  proroga- 
tion.— Kenilworth    castle:    Little    Rosamond. — Stratford-upon-Avon:    Shakspeare. 

Greenwood,  Grace,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Sara  Jane  j  398.21  G85 

(Clarke)  Lippincott). 
Stories  from  famous  ballads;  ed.  by  Caroline  Burnite.     1906.     Ginn. 

Contents:  The  king  of  France's  daughter. — The  beggar's  daughter  of  Bednall- 
Green. — The  English  merchant  and  the  Saracen  lady. — Patient  Griselda. — The  heir  of 
Linne. — Auld  Robin  Gray. — Chevy  Chace. — The  king  and  the  miller  of  Mansfield. — Sir 
Patrick  Spens. 

Gregor,  Elmer  Russell.  j  G865C 

Camping  in  the  winter  woods;  adventures  of  two  boys  in  the  Maine 
woods.    Harper. 

A  deer  hunt. — A  bull  moose  and  a  narrow  escape. — Fishing  through  the  ice. — A 
lynx  makes  trouble. — An  encounter  with  wild  dogs. — A  fight  on  the  ice. — Spring  and  its 
sports— these  chapter  headings   suggest  some  of  the  boys'  adventures. 

Grenfell,  Wilfred  Thomason.  j  92  G875g 

Adrift  on  an  ice-pan.     Houghton. 

"Biographical  sketch,"  p.11-26. 

Vivid  account  of  the  author's  sensations  and  experiences  while  drifting  out  to  sea 
in  a  field  of  broken  ice. 

Grey,  Zane.  j  799  G88 

Last  of  the  plainsmen.    191 1.    McClurg. 

Author  was  the  companion  of  "Buffalo  Jones"  on  a  hunting  trip  in  Arizona,  the 
object  of  which  was  the  capture  of  living  specimens  of  the  cougar  or  mountain  lion. 
Tells  much  of  the  eventful  life  of  the  old  plainsman  who,  for  his  work  in  capturing  and 
taming  buffalo,  is  known  as  the  preserver  of  the  American  bison. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  147 

Grierson,   Elizabeth   Wilson.  j  398  G8gb 

Book  of  Celtic  stories,  with  illustrations  in  colour  from  drawings 
by  Allan  Stewart.     1913.     Black. 

Partial  contents:  The  fate  of  the  children  of  Lir. — The  battle  of  the  birds. — Ken- 
neth the  Yellow. — The  son  of  the  strong  man  of  the  wood. — The  story  of  Finn,  the  son 
of  Cumhal. — The  last  of  the  Feni;  or,  The  man  who  went  to  the  land  of  youth. 

Grierson,  Elizabeth  Wilson.  j  283  G89 

Children's  book  of  English  minsters,  with  illustrations  in  colour. 

1909.    Black. 

Contents:  Durham. — York. — Lincoln. — Ely. — St.  Albans. — St.  Paul's  cathedral. — 
Canterbury. 

Relates  many  interesting  stories  about  these  English  cathedrals  and  about  the  peo- 
ple connected  with  them.  Among  others  tells  of  the  strange  life  of  Cuthbert,  the 
shepherd  boy,  who  became  the  great  missionary  saint  of  the  borders,  about  Hereward 
the  Wake  and  his  "Camp  of  Refuge"  on  the  isle  of  Ely  and  about  brave  Bishop  Hugh 
of  Lincoln,  St.  Thomas  a  Becket  and  the  Black  Prince. 

Grierson,  Elizabeth  Wilson.  j  398.21  G89 

Children's  tales  from  Scottish  ballads.  1906.  Black. 
Contents:  The  Lochmaben  harper. — The  laird  o'  Logie. — Kinmont  Willie. — The  gude 
Wallace. — The  warlock  o'  Oakwood. — Muckle-mou'ed  Meg. — Dick  o'  the  Cow. — The  heir 
of  Linne. — Black  Agnace  of  Dunbar. — Thomas  the  rhymer. — Lord  Soulis. — The  brownie 
of  Blednock. — Sir  Patrick  Spens. — Young  Bekie. — The  earl  of  Mar's  daughter. — Hynde 
Horn.— The  gay  goshawk. 

Colored  illustrations  by  Allan  Stewart. 

Grierson,  Elizabeth  Wilson.  j  914.1  G89 

Scotland,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  William  Smith,  jr.,  and 
others.     1907.     Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

How  Scottish  children  seek  "Hogmanay"  on  Old  Year's  night  and  how  they  keep 
Fastern's  e'en  and  Hallowe'en ;  how  Highland  crofters  live,  about  the  girls  who  cure 
herring,  about  grouse-shooting,  deer-stalking,  salmon-fishing  and  other  customs  of  the 
Land  of  the  thistle. 

Grierson,  Elizabeth  Wilson.  j  398  G89S 

Scottish  fairy  book.     1910.     Stokes. 

Strange,  weird  tales  of  the  wee,  wee  peerie  folk,  of  bogies,  witches,  brownies  and 
kelpies  and  of  mermen  and  beautiful  sea  maidens  who  live  in  a  mysterious  region  far 
under  the  ocean.     Many  pictures. 

Grierson,  Elizabeth  Wilson.  j  92  S43ig 

Sir  Walter  Scott.     1913.     Black.     (Peeps  at  great  men.) 
For  boys  and  girls  who  have  read  "Ivanhoe"  and  "The  lady  of  the  lake"  and  who 
want  to  know  about  the  life  of  one  of  the  world's  great  story-tellers.     Colored  pictures 
of  Abbotsford,  Melrose,  Dryburgh  abbey  and  other  places  associated  with  Scott. 

Grierson,  Elizabeth  Wilson.  j  92  F866g 

Story  of  S.  Francis  of  Assisi.     [1912.J     Mowbray. 

Frontispiece  in  color,  showing  St.  Francis  preaching  to  the  birds,  with  other  illus- 
trations from  photographs. 

Grierson,  Elizabeth  Wilson. 

Tales  from  Scottish  ballads.  See  Iter  Children's  tales  from  Scottish 
ballads. 

Griffin,  Caroline  Stearns.  j  395  G89 

Young  folks'  book  of  etiquette.     1905.     Flanagan. 

Contents:  Politeness  at  home. — At  school. — Street  deportment. — Manners  in  public 
places. — Table   etiquette.— Letters   and   notes. — Bits   of   politeness. 


148  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  949-2  G8gb 

Brave  little  Holland  and  what  she  taught  us.     1898.     Houghton. 

"In  love  of  liberty  and  bravery  in  the  defense  of  it,  she  has  been  our  great  ex- 
ample."    Benjamin  Franklin. 

A  few  of  the  chapters  are,  The  incursions  of  the  Northmen.- — -The  feudal  system. — 
The  Dutch  crusaders. — The  Codfishes  and  the  Fish-hooks. — How  a  mud-hole  became  a 
garden. — Brave  little  Holland  defies  Spain. — The  Pilgrim  Fathers  in  Leyden. — "The 
Dutch  have  taken  Holland." 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  398  G894 

The  fire-fly's  lovers,  and  other  fairy  tales  of  old  Japan.  1908. 
Crowell. 

Among  the  20  tales  are  The  tongue-cut  sparrow. — The  wonderful  tea-kettle. — Benkei 
and  the  bell. — Little  Silver's  dream. — How  the  jelly-fish  lost  his  shell. — Lord  Long- 
legs'  procession. — The  tide-jewels. — The  gift  of  gold  lacquer. 

Colored  pictures. 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  G894i 

In  the  mikado's  service;  a  story  of  two  battle  summers  in  China. 
Wilde. 

A  brave  young  Japanese  and  his  faithful  American  friend  fight  in  the  mikado's 
service  during  the  Chinese-Japanese  war.  The  Boxer  rebellion  of  1900  is  also  introduced 
into  the  story. 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  952  G894 

Japan  in  history,  folk  lore  and  art.     1892.     Houghton. 
Myths,  traditions  and  customs  of  the  Japanese,  with  an  outline  of  their  history  and 

an  account  of  the  forces  which  have  made  the  new  Japan. 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  973.2  G89 

Romance  of  American  colonization;  how  the  foundation  stones  of 
our  history  were  laid.     1898.    Wilde. 

Some  of  the  chapters  are,  The  domain  of  the  Virgin  Queen. — The  Walloons  in  New 
Netherland. — The  three  Van  Curlers. — In  the  land  where  conscience  was  free. — Penn's 
experiment  of  a  godly  commonwealth. — Lawful  resistance  to  unlawful  taxation. 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  973.1  G89 

Romance  of  discovery;  a  thousand  years  of  exploration  and  the  un- 
veiling of  continents.     1897.     Wilde. 

Earliest  voyages  to  America  and  the  explorations  of  Coronado,  Drake,  Hudson, 
Champlain,   La  Salle  and  others. 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  398  G894U 

The  unmannerly  tiger,  and  other  Korean  tales.     191 1.     Crowell. 

Nineteen  fairy  and  folk  tales.  They  tell  of  Prince  Sandalwood,  the  Father  of 
Korea,  of  Tokgabi,  the  mischievous  sprite,  of  the  people  who  wore  crockery  hats  and  of 
the  magpies  that  built  the  flying  bridge. 

Griffis,  William  Elliot.  j  949.2  G89 

Young  people's  history  of  Holland   [to  1913].     Houghton. 

"I  have  given  most  space  to  the  picturesque  part  of  the  Netherlands  story,  to  the 
early  movements  of  nations,  the  origin  of  cities,  the  crusades,  the  counts,  feudalism,  the 
eighty  years'  war  for  freedom,  and  those  modern  movements  that  have  shown  the  varied 
life,  both  of  the  old  republic  and  of  the  modern  kingdom."     Preface. 

Illustrated. 

Griffith,  Alice  Mary  Matlock,  comp.  j  523.8  G89 

The   stars  and  their  stories;   a  book  for  young  people,  with  pen 

sketches  by  Margaret  Boroughs,  and  other  illustrations.  1913.  Holt. 
Directions  and  maps  for  locating  the  constellations  and  principal  stars,  with  myths, 

chiefly    Greek   and    Roman,   and   such   poems    as   Bryant's    "Hymn    to    the    North   star," 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS-AUTHOR  LIST  149 

Griffith,  Alice  Alary  Matlock,  comp. — continued.  j  523.8  G89 

Lowell's  'Finding  of  the  lyre."  "Orpheus  and  Eurydice,"  by  Alfred  Noyes,  Kingsley's 
"Andromeda,"  Mrs  Hemans's  "Lost  Pleiad,"  and  "Ariadne's  crown,"  by  Mrs  Browning. 
Concludes  with  Galileo's  account  of  his  first  telescope. 

Griffith,  Ira  Samuel.  j  684  G89 

Essentials  of  woodworking;  a  textbook  for  schools.  1908.  Manual 
Arts  Press. 

Tells  in  a  general  way.  without  reference  to  particular  models  or  exercises,  of  the 
care  and  use  of  tools,  simple  joinery,  elementary  cabinet  work,  different  kinds  of  wood, 
lumbering,  milling  and  wood   finishing. 

Griffith,  Ira  Samuel.  j  684  G8gw 

Woodwork  for  secondary  schools;  a  text-book  for  high  schools 
and  colleges,  prevocational  and  elementary  industrial  schools.  Ed. 2. 
1916.     Manual  Arts  Press. 

Contents:  Common  woods.— Tools  and  processes. — Woodworking  machines. — Join- 
ery.— Wood  turning. — Inlaying  and  wood-carving.— Wood  finishing. — Furniture  con- 
struction.— Pattern  making. 

"Presupposes  a  knowledge  of  elementary  tool  processes."     Preface. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  j  398  Ggifr2 

Fairy  tales  of  the  brothers  Grimm;  illustrated  by  Arthur  Rack- 
ham,  tr.  by  Mrs  Edgar  Lucas.     1916.     Doubleday. 

Sixty  fairy  tales,  with  40  beautiful  colored  pictures,  and  others  in  black  and  white. 
Among  the  stories  are,  The  golden  bird. — Briar  Rose. — The  twelve  dancing  princesses. — 
The  frog  prince. — Rapunzel. — The  valiant  tailor. — Clever  Elsa. — The  elves  and  the  shoe- 
maker.— King  Thrushbeard. — The  golden  goose. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  j  398  Ggifd 

Fairy  tales,  with  pictures  by  Hope  Dunlap.     1913.     Rand. 

Full-page  illustrations  in  color  and  in  black  and  white. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  j  398  Ggihw 

House  in  the  wood,  and  other  old  fairy  stories,  with  drawings  by 
L.  L.  Brooke.     [1910.]     Warne. 

Other  fairy  stories:  The  brave  little  tailor. — The  goblin  and  the  grocer. — The 
Bremen  town  musicians. — The  table,  the  ass  and  the  cudgel. — The  Jew  in  the  bramble 
bush. — The  vagabonds. — Red  Jacket;  or,  The  nose  tree. — The  straw,  the  coal  and  the 
bean. — Snow-white  and  Rose-red. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  j  398  Ggih 

Household  stories;  tr.  by  Lucy  Crane.     1893.     Macmillan. 
Illustrated  by  Walter  Crane. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  j  398  Ggihou 

Household  tales;  ed.  and  partly  translated  anew  by  Marian  Ed- 
wardes.     1901.     Dent. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig.  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  j  3g8  Ggik 

Kinder  und  hausmarchen.     1895. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  qj  398  G91I 

Little  brother  &  little  sister,  and  other  tales;  illustrated  by  Arthur 
Rackham.     [1917.]     Dodd. 

Includes   40   stories.      Twelve    full-page   plates    in   color   and    many    Others    in 
and  white. 


150  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  j  398  Ggis 

Stories  from  Grimm,  told  to  the  children  by  Amy  Steedman,  with 
pictures  by  Harry  Rowntree.  [1908?]  Jack.  (Told  to  the  children 
series.) 

Contents:  Rumpelstilskin. — The  wolf  and  the  seven  kids. — The  frog  prince. — Ra- 
punzel. — Snowdrop  and  the  seven  dwarfs. — The  wandering  minstrels. — The  golden  bird. 
— The  industrious  goblins. — Hansel  and   Grethel. — Snow-white  and  Rose-red. 

Grinnell,  Elizabeth,  &  Grinnell,  Joseph.  j  598.2  G92 

Our  feathered  friends.     1899.     Heath. 

How  birds  dress,  how  Madam  Bird  combs  her  hair,  what  birds  carry  in  their 
pockets,  how  baby  birds  are  fed  and  other  little  talks  about  "our  feathered  friends." 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  917.8  G92 

Beyond  the  old  frontier;  adventures  of  Indian-fighters,  hunters  and 
fur-traders.     1913.     Scribner. 

Contents:  An  early  fur  trader  [Alexander  Ross]. — Fur  hunters  of  the  far  West. — 
When  beaver  skins  were  money. — G.  F.  Ruxton,  hunter. — A  boy  in  Indian  camps  [L.  H. 
Garrard]. — The  solitary  hunter   [John   Palliser]. — The  council  at  Fort  Benton. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  398.097  G92 

Blackfoot  lodge  tales;  the  story  of  a  prairie  people.     1892.    Scribner. 

Indian  legends  and  stories  of  adventure  as  they  were  told  by  the  Indians  them- 
selves. Contains  also  chapters  on  the  daily  life  and  customs,  the  religion,  the  social 
organization,  etc.  of  the  Blackfoot  Indian  tribe. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  970.1  Gg2i2 

Indians  of  to-day.     191 1.    Duffield. 

"The  Indians  of  to-day — what  are  their  numbers?  where  do  they  live?  how  do  they 
subsist?  Are  they  becoming  civilized,  educated,  learning  the  white  man's  ways?  These 
are  some  of  the  questions  which  intelligent  people  are  asking,  and  to  which,  so  far  as 
may  be,  the  answer  is  given  in  the  pages  that  follow."     Preface. 

Illustrated  by  reproductions  of  excellent  photographs  of  Indian  chiefs. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  Gg25Ja 

Jack  among  the  Indians;  or,  A  boy's  summer  on  the  buffalo  plains. 
Stokes. 

Jack  shared  for  many  weeks  the  life  of  the  Piegan  Indians.  He  took  part  in  ad- 
ventures on  the  prairies,  defended  the  camp  against  a  raid  by  horse  stealers  of  a  hostile 
tribe,  and  bore  himself  so  well  amongst  his  Indian  friends  that  he  was  given  the  name 
of  the  "White  Warrior."     Continues  "Jack,  the  young  ranchman." 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  Gg25Jac 

Jack  in  the  Rockies;  or,  A  boy's  adventures  with  a  pack  train. 
Stokes. 

Jack  Danvers  and  his  old  friends,  Hugh  and  Joe,  take  a  trip  on  horseback  through 
Yellowstone  park  and  its  environs.  They  have  adventures  with  elk,  bears  and  horse 
thieves,  and  Jack  shoots  his  first  moose. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  G925JC 

Jack,  the  young  canoeman;  an  Eastern  boy's  voyage  in  a  Chinook 

canoe.     Stokes. 

Adventures   in   the   Northwest,    including   a   canoe    trip   along   the    coast    of   British 

Columbia,  a  hunt  in  the  mountains   and  a  trip  up  the  Fraser  river  in  the  time  of  the 

salmon  fishing. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  G925J0 

Jack,  the  young  cowboy;  an  Eastern  boy's  experience  on  a  Western 
round-up.     Stokes. 

Jack  joins  a  round-up  camp  and  learns  at  first  hand  about  stampedes,  cow-ponies, 
cutting  and  branding,  "riding  circle,"  and  the  other  work  of  the  cowboys.  The  seventh 
volume  in  the  series. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  151 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  Gg25Je 

Jack,  the  young  explorer;  a  boy's  experiences  in  the  unknown 
Northwest.     Stokes. 

In  northern  Montana  among  the  Blackfoot  Indians  Jack  sees  a  medicine  pipe 
ceremony,  learns  of  old  time  hunting  ways  and  explores  the  unknown  mountain  region 
about  the   head-waters  of   St.   Mary's  river  and  Swift  current. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  G925J 

Jack,  the  young  ranchman;  or,  A  boy's  adventures  in  the  Rockies. 

Stokes. 

"The  ranch  lies  in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  in  a  great  basin,  walled  in  by  mountains 
on  every  hand... The  life  there  was  exciting.  There  was  good  hunting — antelope  and 
elk  and  bear  and  buffalo;  and,  far  away — yet  near  enough  to  be  very  real — there  were 
wild  Indians." 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  G925.it 

Jack,  the  young  trapper;  an  Eastern  boy's  fur  hunting  in  the  Rocky 

mountains.     Stokes. 

"They  were  men  of  firm  courage  and  stern  resolution,  those  trappers  of  the  early 
days,"  and  Jack  Danvers  who  spends  a  summer  in  the  Colorado  park  region  is  taught 
some  of  the  secrets  of  that  now  forgotten  life  by  one  who  had  borne  a  part  in  the  work 
of  subduing  the  wild  West.  He  learns  much  of  Indian  beaver  lore,  of  methods  of  trap- 
ping and  of  camp  life  in  general. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  398.097  G92P 

Pawnee  hero  stories  and  folk-tales,  with  notes  on  the  origin,  cus- 
toms and  character  of  the  Pawnee  people,  to  which  is  added  a  chapter 
on  the  Pawnee  language,  by  J.  B.  Dunbar.     1893.     Scribner. 

Among  the  stories  told  are,  Comanche  Chief,  the  Peacemaker. — Lone  Chief,  Skur- 
ar-a  Le-Shar. —  The  prisoners  of  Court  House  rock.  —  Little  Warrior's  counsel.  —  A 
Cheyenne  blanket. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird.  j  97°.i  G92 

Story  of  the  Indian.  1902.  Appleton.  (Story  of  the  West  series.) 
Life  of  the  red  man;  how  he  ate  and  slept,  hunted  and  fought,  and  what  he  believed. 

Grinnell,  George  Bird,  &  Roosevelt,  Theodore,  ed.  j  799  G92 

Trail   and   camp-fire;   the  book  of  the   Boone   and   Crockett   Club. 

1897.     Forest  &  Stream. 

Contents:  The  Labrador  peninsula,  by  A.  P.  Low. — Cherry,  by  L.  S.  Thompson. — 
An  African  shooting  trip,  by  W.  L.  Smith. — Sintamaskin,  by  C.  G.  La  Farge. — Wolves 
and  wolf  nature,  by  G.  B.  Grinnell. — On  the  Little  Missouri,  by  Theodore  Roosevelt. — 
Bear  traits;  A  berry  picker,  by  G.  B.  Grinnell. — A  silver  tip  family,  by  J.  C.  Merrill. — 
The  bear's  disposition,  by  Theodore  Roosevelt. — Modern  bear  baiting,  by  H.  L.  Stimson. 
— The  Adirondack  deer  law,  by  W.  C.  Sanger. — A  Newfoundland  caribou  hunt,  by  C.  A. 
Pierce.— The  origin  of  the  New  York  Zoological  Society,  by  Madison  Giant. — Rooks  on 
big  game.— List  of  books. — Constitution,  officers  and  members  of  the  Boone  and  1 
ett  Club. 

Groot,  Cornelia  de.    See  De  Groot,  Cornelia. 

Grosvenor,  Johnston.  j  G941S 

Strange  stories  of  the  Great  Valley;  the  adventures  of  a  boy  pio 

neer.     Harper. 

This  boy  pioneer  of  the  early  10th  century  meets  "Johnnj    Appleseed,"  Simon   Ken 

ton,  Francis  Vigo  and  the  boy  Lincoln;  rides  with  Col.  Johnson's  "Long   Hunters"   to 

the  rescue  of   Boonesboro  and  helps  to  defend   Vincennes   from    renegades. 

Grover,  Eulalie  Osgood.  j  372-4  G940U 

Outdoor  primer.     1904.     Rand. 

Pictures  of  the  ildren  plaj 

ing  and  working. 


152  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Grover,  Eulalie  Osgood.  j  372-4  G940 

Overall  boys;  a  first  reader.     1905.     Rand. 

Attractive  colored  pictures. 

Grover,  Eulalie  Osgood. 

Sunbonnet  babies'  book.    See  her  Sunbonnet  babies'  primer. 

Same  work  published  under  both   titles. 

Grover,  Eulalie  Osgood.  j  3724  G94 

Sunbonnet  babies'  primer.     1902.     Rand. 
Attractive  colored  pictures. 
Also  published  with  the  title   "Sunbonnet   babies'   book." 

Grubb,  Mary  B.  &  Taylor,  F.  L. 

The  industrial  primary  reader.     See  their  Industrial  primer. 

Same  work  published  under  both   titles. 

Grubb,  Mary  B.  &  Taylor,  F.  L.  j  3724  G946 

The  industrial  primer.     1912.     Heath. 

Easy  reading  based  on  the  home  life  and  interests  of  children,  with  directions  for 
stick  laying,  paper  folding  and  cutting.     Illustrated. 

Grubb,  Mary  B.  j  790  G94 

When  mother  lets  us  make  gifts.     1915.    Moffat. 

How  to  make  fancy  boxes  and  bags,  candle  shades,  pillows,  desk-blotters,  and  other 
simple  and  inexpensive  gifts. 

Grundtvig,  Svend  Hersleb.  j  398  Gg4d 

Danish  fairy  tales;  done  into  English  by  Gustav  Hein.  [1914.] 
Crowell. 

Contents:  Willy  Faith. — The  lass  of  Deonsrvand. — The  wishing-box. — -Olaf  the 
mermaid's  son. — The  miserly  squire. — The  roedeer  princess. — Prince  Irregang  and  Maid 
Miseri. — The  three  red  piggies. — The  dumb  queen. — The  wise  queen. — For  three  shil- 
lings.^— -The  cobbler's  lad. — The  raven  of  Salby. — The  most  obedient  wife. — Virtue  its 
own  reward. — Faithful  Svend. — Health  and  happiness. — The  school  of  black  art. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  398.2  Ggsle 

Legends  of  Switzerland.     1899.     Dodd. 

Legends  of  giants,  ghosts,  dwarfs  and  fairies ;  of  kings  and  queens,  knights  and 
ladies.     Illustrated. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  398.2  G95I 

Legends  of  the  middle  ages,  narrated  with  special  reference  to 
literature  and  art.     1896.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  Beowulf. — Gudrun. — Reynard  the  fox. — The  Nibelungenlied. — Lango- 
bardian  cycle  of  myths. — The  Amelings. — Dietrich  von  Bern. — Charlemagne  and  his 
paladins. — The  sons  of  Aymon. — Huon  of  Bordeaux.—  Titurel  and  the  Holy  Grail. — Mer- 
lin.— The  Round  Table. — Tristan  and  Iseult. — The  story  of  Frithiof. — Ragnar  Lodbrok. 
— The  Cid. — General  survey  of  romance  literature. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  398.2  G95 

Legends  of  the  Rhine.     1895.     Barnes. 

Collection  of  the  romantic  legends  which  cluster  about  the  moss-grown  ruins  and 
quaint  towns  and  cities  of  the  Rhine.     Illustrated. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  292  G95 

Myths  of  Greece  and  Rome.     1893.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contains  quotations  from  poems,  and  reproductions  of  ancient  masterpieces  and 
noted  examples  of  modern  painting  and  sculpture. 


CHILDREN'S   HOOKS-AUTHOR  LIST  153 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  293  G95 

Myths  of  northern  lands.     1895.     Araer.  Book  Co. 

Good  outline  of  the  northern  mythology.  The  myths  are  narrated  with  special  ref- 
erence to  literature  and  art,  but  the  physical  significance  is  explained  briefly.  Most  of 
the  illustrations  are  reproductions  of  paintings. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  782.2  G95 

Stories  of  the  Wagner  opera.     1896.     Dodd. 

Contents:  Rienzi. —  Flying  Dutchman. —  Tannhauser. —  Lohengrin. —  Tristan  and 
Vsolde.  —  Mastersingers  of  Nuremberg. — Nibelung's  ring. — Walkyrie. — Siegfried.— Dusk 
of  the  gods.- — Parsifal. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  933  G95 

Story  of  the  chosen  people.     1896.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

The  history  of  the  children  of  Israel  to  the  time  of  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem. 
Such  titles  as  The  walls  of  Jericho. — Defeat  of  the  Midianites. — -Seven  kings  of  Israel. — 
The  chariot  of  fire. — The  captivity  of  Israel. — The  feast  of  Belshazzar. — The  story  of 
Esther. 

Illustrated. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  942  G95 

Story  of  the  English.     1898.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Introduction  to  English  history,  covering  the  whole  period  but  giving  little  space 
to  the  last  two  centuries.     Largely  biographical  in  form.     Maps  and  pictures. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  973  G95S 

Story  of  the   great   Republic.      1899.     Amer.    Book   Co.      (Eclectic 

school  readings.) 

Continuation  of  "Story  of  the  thirteen  colonies,"  bringing  the  history  of  the  United 
States  down  to  the  Spanish- American  war  and  the  annexation  of  the  Hawaiian  islands. 
Such  chapter  headings  as  Our  war  against  African  pirates. — Clinton's  "Big  ditch." — 
"Don't  give  up  the  ship." — The  discovery  of  El  Dorado. — The  underground  railroad. — 
John  Brown's  raid. — Riots,  raids  and  battles. — The  Atlantic  cable. — Hobson's  brave 
deed. 
Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  938  G95 

Story  of  the  Greeks.     1898.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Elementary  history  of  Greece,  made  up  principally  of  stories  about  persons  -Deu- 
calion and  Pyrrha,  Jason,  Theseus,  Paris,  Leonidas,  Socrates,  Alcibiades,  Philip  of 
Macedon,   Alexander  the   Great. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  937  G95 

Story  of  the  Romans.     1896.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

From  mythical  times  to  the  fall  of  the  western  empire.     Maps  and  illustrations. 

Guerber,  Helene  Marie  Adeline.  j  973-2  G95 

Story  of  the  thirteen  colonies.     1898.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Intended  as  an  historical  reader.     Ends  with  the  Revolutionary   war. 

Guerra,  Alvise.  j  853  G95 

Un'escursione  nel  3004;  racconto  fantastico. 
Guigou,  Paul,  &  Vimar,  A.  j  847  G96 

L'illustre  dompteur. 
Gulick,  Mrs  Charlotte  Emily  (Vetter).  j  369-3  G96 

Book  of  symbols  for  camp  fire  girls.  1915.  Camp  Fire  Outfit- 
ting Co. 

The  drawings  and  brii  tided  to  be  suggestive  to  girls  in  1 

ing  their  own  individual  symb 

Gulick,  Mrs  Charlotte  Emily  (Vetter).  j  614.88  G96 

Emergencies.     1909.     Ginn.     (Gulick  hygiene  serie-.  1 
What  i"  do  in  case  of  accidents  and  how  to  avoid  them. 


154  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Gulliver,  Lucile.  j  172  G96 

The  friendship  of  nations;  a  story  of  the  peace  movement  for 
young  people,  with  a  foreword  by  D.  S.  Jordan.     1912.    Ginn. 

Intended  to  be  used  as  a  supplementary  reader  or  as  a  manual  of  exercises  for  the 
observance  of  Peace  day. 

H.  H.     See  Jackson,  Mrs  Helen  Hunt. 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  comp.  j  Hi  13b 

Ballads  and  tales;  fourth  reader  grade.    Newson. 

Legends  of  Robin  Hood,  King  Arthur,  Chevy  Chase,  Dick  Whittington  and  his  cat, 
Macbeth,  William  Tell,  Richard  the  Lion-hearted  and  others. 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  comp.  j  H1131 

Fairy  life;  third  reader  grade.     Newson. 

Stories  and  poems  of  nixies,  elves,  mountain  sprites  and  other  fairy  folk.  Includes 
such  good  things  as  Goethe's  "Erl  king,"  Thackeray's  "Fairy  days,"  Fenelon's  "Queen 
and  the  peasant  girl,"  Andersen's  "Elfin-mount,"  and  Howitt's  "Fairies  of  the  Caldon 
Low." 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  &  Poland,  A.  B.  j  920  H113 

Famous  men  of  Greece.     1904.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  Introduction:  The  gods  of  Greece. — Deucalion  and  the  flood. — Cadmus 
and  the  dragon's  teeth. — Perseus. — Hercules  and  his  labors.- — Jason  and  the  golden 
fleece. — Theseus. — Agamemnon. — Achilles.— The  adventures  of  Ulysses. — Lycurgus. — 
Draco  and  Solon. — Pisistratus. — Miltiades  the  hero  of  Marathon. — Leonidas  at  Ther- 
mopylae.— Themis  tocles. — Aristides. — Cimon. — Pericles. —  Alcibiades. —  Lysander. — Soc- 
rates.— Xenophon. — Epaminondas  and  Pelopidas. — -Philip  of  Macedonia. — Alexander  the 
Great. — Demosthenes. — Aristotle,  Zeno,  Diogenes  and  Apelles. — Ptolemy. — Pyrrhus. — 
Cleomenes  III. — The  fall  of  Greece. 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  &  Poland,  A.  B.  j  920  Hii3im 

Famous  men  of  modern  times.     1909.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  Lorenzo  the  Magnificent. — Christopher  Columbus. — Ferdinand  of  Ara- 
gon. — Vasco  da  Gama. — Chevalier  Bayard. — Cardinal  Wolsey. — Charles  V  of  Germany. 
— Solyman  the  Sublime. — Sir  Francis  Drake. — Sir  Walter  Raleigh. — Henry  of  Navarre. 
« — Wallenstein. — Gustavus  Adolphus. — Cardinal  Richelieu. — Galileo. — Oliver  Cromwell. — 
Louis  XIV. — Sir  Isaac  Newton. — William  III,  king  of  England. — Sobieski.- — Peter  the 
Great. — Charles  XII  of  Sweden. — Frederick  the  Great. — William  Pitt. — George  Wash- 
ington.— Robespierre. — Napoleon  Bonaparte. — Horatio  Nelson. — Thaddeus  Kosciusko. — 
Abraham    Lincoln. — Garibaldi. — William    Ewart    Gladstone. — Count   von    Bismarck. 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  &  Poland,  A.  B.  j  920  Hi  131 

Famous  men  of  Rome.     1904.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  Romulus. — Numa  Pompilius. — The  Horatii  and  the  Curiatii. — The  Tar- 
quins. — Junius  Brutus. — Horatius. — Mucius  the  Left-handed. — Coriolanus. — The  Fabii. 
— Cincinnatus. — Camillus. — Manlius  Torquatus. — Appius  Claudius  Csecus. — Regulus. — 
Scipio  Africanus. —  Cato  the  Censor. —  The  Gracchi. —  Marius. —  Sulla. —  Pompey  the 
Great. — Julius  Caesar. — Cicero. — Augustus. — Nero. — Titus. — Trajan. — Marcus  Aurelius. 
— Constantine  the  Great. — End  of  the  western  empire. 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  &  Poland,  A.  B.  j  920  Hii3ia 

Famous  men  of  the  middle  ages.     1904.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  Introduction:  The  gods  of  the  Teutons;  The  Nibelungs. — Alaric  the 
Visigoth.— Attila  the  Hun. — Genseric  the  Vandal. — Theodoric  the  Ostrogoth. — Clovis.— 
Justinian. — Mohammed. — Charles  Martel  and  Pepin. — Charlemagne. — Harun-al-Raschid. 
— Egbert  the  Saxon. — Rollo  the  Viking. — Alfred  the  Great. — Henry  the  Fowler. — Canute 
the  Great. — The  Cid. — Edward  the  Confessor. — William  the  Conqueror. — Peter  the  Her- 
mit.— Frederick  Barbarossa. — Henry  the  Second  and  his  sons. — Louis  IX. — Robert 
Bruce. — Marco  Polo. — Edward  the  Black  Prince. — William  Tell  and  Arnold  von  Winkel- 
ried. — Tamerlane. — Henry  V. — Joan  of  Arc. — Gutenberg. — Warwick  the  King-maker. 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  comp.  j  Hii3r 

Rhymes  and  fables;  first  reader  grade.     Newson. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  155 

Haaren,  John  Henry,  comp.  j  Hi  13s 

Songs  and  stories;  second  reader  grade.     Newson. 

Good  collection  of  stories  and  poems,  including  several  of  Grimm  and  Andersen, 
Tennyson's  "Lullaby,"  Jean  Ingelow's  "Seven  times  one"  and  "Who  killed  Cock  Robin." 

Habberton,  John.  j  Hush 

Helen's  babies.     Grosset. 

About  two  naughty,  mischievous  children,  giving  some  account  of  their  ways,  angelic 
and  impish.     Also  a  partial  record  of  their  actions  during  ten  days  of  their  existence. 

Hagedorn,  Hermann.  j  92   R684h 

Boys'  life  of  Theodore  Roosevelt;  illustrated  with  photographs, 
cartoons  and  reproductions  of  Theodore  Roosevelt's  own  diaries.  1918. 
Harper. 

Roosevelt's  own  saying,  "Aggressive  fighting  for  the  right  is  the  noblest  sport  the 
world  affords"  is  the  keynote  of  this  account  of  his  life  which  tells  of  hunting  adven- 
tures in  the  wilds  of  Dakota,  Africa  and  Brazil,  of  his  political  struggles  and  of  his  ser- 
vice to  the  American  people. 

Hagedorn,  Hermann.  j  172  H13 

You  are  the  hope  of  the  world!     1918.    Macmillan. 

Appeal  to  the  girls  and  boys  of  America  to  create  a  tradition  of  public  service,  to 
live  for  the  highest  interests  of  America  and  at  the  same  time  for  the  highest  interests 
of  the  world.  "In  that  struggle,"  the  author  says,  "the  goal  is  neither  nationalism 
nor  internationalism.  It  is  democracy.  It  is  a  lasting  peace  among  nations;  and,  as 
far  as  it  is  humanly  possible,  amity  among  men." 

Hailmann,  Mrs  Eudora  Lucas,  ed.  qj  372.2  H14 

Songs,  games  and  rhymes  for  the  nursery,  kindergarten  and  pri- 
mary school,  with  notes  and  suggestions.     1887.     Bradley. 

Contents:  Opening  songs. — Closing  songs. — Songs  and  games  of  the  seasons. — 
Weather  songs  and  games. — Songs  and  games  of  animate  nature. — Trades  and  occupa- 
tions.— Marches  and  movement  plays. — Ball  games. — Finger  and  hand  games. — Mis- 
cellaneous. 

Haines,  Alice  Calhoun.  qj  Hisib 

Book  of  the  dog,  with  facsimiles  of  drawings  in  colour  by  E.  F. 
Bonsall.     Stokes. 

Stories,  verses  and  colored  pictures. 

Haines,  Alice  Calhoun.  j  H151C 

Cock-a-doodle  hill.     Holt. 

Further  chronicles  of  the  Dudley  Grahams,  as  related  by  Elizabeth  Graham.  She 
tells  how  they  went  to  live  in  an  old-fashioned,  rambling  house  in  the  country,  about 
the  donkey  that  wouldn't  go,  the  chicken  shower,  the  good  times  of  the  R.  1>.  R.  C, 
"the  little  boy  who  was  gladdest  of  all"  and  finally  of  the  good  fortune  which  came  to 
one  of  them. 

Haines,  Alice   Calhoun.  qj   Hisii 

Indian  boys  and  girls,  with  four  full-page  color-plates  after  paint- 
ings in  water-color  by  Alice  Mar  and  illustrations  in  black-and-white 
by  E.  W.  Deming.     1906.     Stokes. 

Stories  and  verses.  Among  them,  ll"v.  White  Rabbit  minded  the  baby. —  Tin- 
strange  sickness  of  Beaver  Boy. — Hawk    Eye  and   his  pony. — The   making   "f  ;i   " 

Bows  and  arrows. — The  choosing  of  Slender    Moccasin,    -Thi  1   mothei    <'t 

Stalking  Elk.— Off  to  war. 

Haines,  Alice  Calhoun.  j  H151I 

Luck  of  the  Dudley  Grahams,  as  related  in  extracts  from  Elizabeth 

Graham's  diary.    Holt. 

The  seventeen-year-old   Elizabeth,   the  oldest    Graham,  tells  of  tin-  trials  .in  i 

times  that  befell  the  little  Graham';. 


156  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Hale,  Edward  Everett.  j  974.46  H15 

Historic  Boston  and  its  neighborhood;  an  historical  pilgrimage. 
1898.    Appleton. 

How  to  go  "sight-seeing"  in  Boston,  describing  trips  to  Lexington,  Concord  and 
Bunker  Hill,  the  islands  and  the  forts,  Harvard  University,  etc. 

Hale,  Edward  Everett.  j  177  Hish 

How  to  do  it,  and  How  to  live.     1900.    Little. 

Chapters  on  "How  to  talk,"  "How  to  read,"  "How  to  write,"  and  various  other 
things  that  young  people  sometimes  dread  to  do  because  they  are  not  sure  just  "How 
to  do  it." 

Hale,  Edward  Everett.  j  Hi59i 

In  His  name.    Little. 

Story  of  the  "Poor  men  of  Lyons,"  and  how  a  young  girl's  life  was  saved  for  the 
love  of  Christ. 

Hale,  Edward  Everett.  j  Hisgm2 

Man  without  a  country.     Little. 

Story  of  an  American  officer  who  said  he  wished  never  to  hear  of  the  United  States 
again,  and  for  punishment  had  his  wish  fulfilled. 

Hale,  Edward  Everett,  ed.  j  910.8  H15S 

Stories  of  adventure,  told  by  adventurers.     1905.     Little. 

Contents:  Marco  Polo. — Sir  John  Mandeville  and  the  crusades. — -Bertrandon  in 
Palestine. — Geoffrey  of  Vinsauf. — Hernando  Cortes's  letters.— Fra  Marco  and  Coro- 
nado. — The  Jesuit  relations  [Father  Jogues's  story]. — Northern  discoveries  [Hearne's 
travels]. — Humboldt's  travels. — A  young  man's  voyage  [Capt.  Cleveland]. — The  North- 
west.— Siberia   and  Kamchatka    [Peter   Dobell's   travels]. 

Hale,  Edward  Everett,  ed.  j  910.8  H15 

Stories  of  discovery  told  by  discoverers.     1905.     Little. 

Contents:  First  voyage  of  Columbus. — Da  Gama  and  the  East. — Magalhaens  and 
the  Pacific. — Sir  Francis  Drake. — Atlantic  coast. — Voyages  in  the  Pacific. — Northwest 
passage. — Source  of  the  Nile. — Mouth  of  the  Niger. — -West  of  the  Mississippi. — Antarc- 
tic continent. 

Hale,  Edward  Everett,  ed.  j  910.4  H15 

Stories  of  the  sea  told  by  sailors.     1899.     Little. 

Contents:  Columbus's  return  from  his  first  voyage. — The  Chancellor  voyage. — The 
Spanish  Armada. — The  battle  of  Lepanto.— Sir  Richard  Grenville. — Alexander  Selkirk. 
— The  buccaneers. — Paul  Jones  and  Richard  Pearson. — Nelson  and  Trafalgar. — The  Eng- 
lish  navy. — Pitcairn's   island. — Naval   battles. — Shipwrecks. 

Hale,  Lucretia  Peabody.  j  793  H16 

Fagots  for  the  fireside;  150  games  and  amusements  for  evenings  at 
home  and  social  parties.     1896.    Houghton. 

Includes  every  kind  of  game  and  entertainment,  from  anagrams,  charades  and  rid- 
dles to  potato  races  and  golf. 

Hale,  Lucretia  Peabody.  j  H161I 

Last  of  the  Peterkins.     Little. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.7-10,  July  1880-May  1883. 

Last  records  of  the  Peterkin  family,  who,  unhappily,  ventured  to  leave  their  native 
land  and  have  never  returned.     A  sequel  to  the  "Peterkin   papers." 

Hale,  Lucretia  Peabody.  j  Hi6ip 

Peterkin  papers.    Houghton. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 1-6,  July  1874-Oct.  1879. 

"Twenty-two  funny  stories  of  the  unsuccessful  efforts  of  the  Peterkin  family  to 
become  wise."     G.  E.  Hardy. 

Half  a  hundred  stories;  for  little  people.     Bradley.  j  H166 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  157 

Hall,  Albert  Neely.  j  790  H16 

Boy  craftsman;  practical  and  profitable  ideas  for  a  boy's  leisure 
hours.     [1905.]     Lothrop. 

Tells  how  to  make  a  boy's  workshop,  how  to  handle  tools  and  what  can  be  made 
with  them,  how  to  start  a  printing  shop  and  conduct  an  amateur  newspaper,  how  to  make 
photographs,  build  a  log  cabin,  a  canvas  canoe,  a  gymnasium,  a  miniature  theatre  and 
many  other  things.     Well  illustrated. 

Hall,  Albert  Neely.  j  79°  Hi6c 

Carpentry  &  mechanics  for  boys;  up-to-the-minute  handicraft. 
1918.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  The  home  workshop. — War  toys  and  mechanical  toys. — Back  yard  and 
camp  craft. — Garden  craft. 

Includes  plans  for  household  conveniences  and  furniture,  flower  boxes,  garden  ac- 
cessories and  bird  houses.      Many   illustrations  and   working  drawings. 

Hall,  Albert  Neely.  j  790  Hi6h 

Handicraft  for  handy  boys;  practical  plans  for  work  and  play,  with 
many  ideas  for  earning  money.     191 1.     Lothrop. 

Companion  volume  to  "Boy  craftsman."  Contains  some  of  the  latest  ideas  for 
making  things,  suggestions  for  games  and  sports  and  for  home  and  school  entertain- 
ments. 

Hall,  Albert  Neely.  j  79o  Hi6ha 

The  handy  boy;  a  modern  handy  book  of  practical  and  profitable 
pastimes.     1913.     Lothrop. 

Includes  woodworking,  electrical  and  mechanical  toy  making,  camp  craft,  the  mak- 
ing of  model  aeroplanes,  and  other  forms  of  indoor  and  outdoor  handicraft.  Working 
drawings  and  photographic  illustrations. 

Hall,  Alfred  Bates,  &  Chester,  C.  L.  j  918.6  H16 

Panama  and  the  canal.     1910.     Newson. 

Contains  stories   of  the  early  discoverers,   of  treasure   ships  and  daring  pirates,   of 
Spanish  rule  and  ruin,  of  modern  Panama  and  the  building  of  the  Panama  railroad  and 
canal. 
Hall,  Mrs  Florence  Marion  (Howe).  j  395  H17 

Boys,  girls  and  manners.     1913.     Page. 

"The  rules  are  given,  not  as  dry  and  dusty  skeletons,  but  as  living  organism-, 
clothed  in  the  tissue  of  anecdote  and  illustration."     Introduction. 

Hall,  Harry  Reginald  Holland.  j  57*  H17 

Days  before  history,  with  a  preface  by  J.  J.  Findlay.    1907.    Crowell. 

In  story  form  tells  of  life  in  the  stone  age;  about  the  cave  and  lake  dwellings,   how 
the  people  obtained  food  and  clothing,  and  made  flint   arrows  and   spears,   stone    ixi 
baskets  and  pottery. 

Hall,  Isaac  Freeman,  &  Lennox,  E.  D.  j  808.8  H17 

Red  letter  days  and  red  letter  facts;  a  reader  for  home  and  school, 

third  or  fourth  year  of  school  life.     1902.    Silver.     (New  century  series.) 

Contains  stories  about  holidays  and  about  birthdays  of  famous  men;  facts  and  fan- 
cies about  plants,  birds  and  animals,  and  stories  about   famous  pictures   and   authors. 

Hall,  Jennie.  j  839.6  H17 

Viking  tales.     1902.     Rand. 

Viking  adventures  west-ovcr-seas   from   Norway   to   Iceland.   Greenland   and    "Wine- 
land  the  Good." 
Hall,  May  Emery.  j  H174J 

Jan  and  Betje;  a  story  of  two  Dutch  children.  Merrill.  (Merrill's 
story  books.) 

About  the  every-day  life  of  Jan  and  Betje,  who  live  on  a  flatboal  on  one  of  the 
canals  of  Holland.     For  the  younger  children. 


158  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Hall,  Ruth.  j  Hi742b 

Boys  of  Scrooby.     Houghton. 

Adventures  in  the  Old  and  New  worlds.  Among  the  historical  characters  are  Sir 
Walter  Raleigh,  Elizabeth   Stuart,  queen  of  Bohemia,  and  Hugo  Grotius. 

Hall,  Ruth.  j  H17421 

In  the  brave  days  of  old.     Houghton. 
Boys'  adventures  in  the  time  of  James  I. 

Hallowell,  Nancy  S.  j  7934  H18 

Red  Cross  drill.     1918.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Hallowell,  Nancy  S.  j  793-4  Hi8s 

Semaphore  flag  drill.     1918.    Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Hamer,  Mrs  Sarah  Sharp,  (pseud.  Phillis  Browne),  &  j  641  H19 

Payne,  A.  G. 
Dictionary  of  dainty  breakfasts.     1899.     Cassell. 

How  to  cook  all  sorts  of  breakfast  dishes,  such  as  muffins,  omelettes,  fish-cakes, 
bacon  rashers,  etc. 

Hamilton,  Joseph  Gregoire  de  Roulhac,  &  Hamilton,  j  92  L526I1 

Mrs  M.  C.  (Thompson). 

Life  of  Robert  E.  Lee  for  boys  and  girls.     1917.     Houghton. 

Gen.  Lee  was  not  only  a  great  soldier  but  a  great  man.  This  biography  gives  an 
interesting  account  of  his  boyhood,  life  at  West  Point,  experiences  as  a  cavalry  officer 
and  as  leader  of  the  Confederate  armies,  and  of  his  patriotic  Americanism  in  the  years 
following  the  war. 

Hamlin,  Mrs  Myra  Sawyer.  j  H22in 

Nan  at  Camp  Chicopee;  or,  Nan's  summer  with  the  boys.    Little. 

The  story  of  a  young  girl  and  her  brothers  and  companions,  with  all  the  delights  of 
a  genuine  summer  camp. 

Hamlin,  Mrs  Myra  Sawyer.  j  H22ina 

Nan  in  the  city;  or,  Nan's  winter  with  the  girls;  a  sequel  to  Nan  at 
Camp  Chicopee.     Little. 

"Nan's  summer  with  the  boys"  is  followed  by  a  winter  at  school  in  a  great  city; 
but  she  and  her  friends  have  a  Christmas  party  at  Chicopee,  and  there  they  plan  "Camp 
Chicopee  colony." 

Hamlin,  Mrs  Myra  Sawyer.  j  H22inan 

Nan's  Chicopee  children.    Little. 

Completes  the  "Chicopee  series."  It  tells  of  the  grown-up  Nan's  summer  home  for 
poor  city  boys  and  girls. 

Hammarstrom,  Nanny.  j  595-796  H22 

Adventures  of  two  ants;  tr.  from  the  Swedish  by  A.  E.  B.  Fries. 
1910.     Stokes. 

An  ant's  story  of  its  first  summer.  Tells  about  the  building  of  the  houses,  the 
useful  ant-cows  and  the  dangerous  ant-lions;  about  the  royal  children,  a  hunting  trip  and 
an  ant  war. 

Hamp,  Sidford  Frederick.  j  H228t 

Treasure  of  Mushroom  rock.     Putnam. 

Adventures  of  two  boys  prospecting  for  gold  in  the  Rocky  mountains. 

Haney,  James  Parton.  qj  745  H23 

Classroom  practice  in  design.     1907.     Manual  Arts  Press. 

Brief  outline  of  principles  and  methods,  with  illustrative  designs. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  159 

Hapgood,  Olive  C.  j  646  H24 

School  needlework;  a  course  of  study  in  sewing  designed  for  use 

in  schools.     1893.     Ginn. 

Contents:       General     directions. —  Plain     sewing. — Ornamental     stitches. — Drafting, 

cutting  and  making  garments. 

Harding,  Mrs  Caroline  Hirst  (Brown),  &  Harding,  S.  B.  j  937  H25 

The  city  of  the  seven  hills;  a  book  of  stories  from  the  history  of  an- 
cient Rome.    1905.    Scott. 

Principally  stories  of  persons — Romulus,  Coriolanus,  Cincinnatus,  Camillus,  the 
Gracchi,  Cicero,  Caesar,  Augustus.  Gives  also  a  good  idea  of  the  daily  life  and  customs 
of  the  people  of  Rome  in  the  time  of  the  republic.  Designed  as  a  supplementary  reader 
for  sixth  and  seventh  grades. 

Harding,  Mrs  Caroline  Hirst  (Brown),  &  Harding,  S.  B.  j  292  H25 

Stories  of  Greek  gods,  heroes  and  men;  a  primer  of  the  mythology 
and  history  of  the  Greeks.    1905.    Scott. 

Twenty-one  stories  from  mythology,  six  stories  of  heroes,  13  stories  from  history. 
All  are  necessarily  brief,   but  well  and  simply  told. 

Harding,  Samuel  Bannister.  j  940. 1  H25 

Story  of  the  middle  ages.     1904.     Scott. 

About  the  ancient  Germans,  the  rise  of  the  Franks,  the  growth  of  feudalism,  the 
deeds  of  the  Northmen  and  the  crusades.  Tells  also  of  the  life  of  village  and  town, 
monastery  and  castle  in'  the  middle  ages. 

Hardy,  Mrs  Mary  Earle.  j  594  H26 

The  hall  of  shells.     1897.    Appleton. 

In  the  form  of  familiar  conversations  with  two  children  is  given  much  scientific  in- 
formation about  shells  and  their  inhabitants,  and  with  this  are  interwoven  many  stories 
and  legends  associated  with  them.  References  to  other  works  are  given  for  those  who 
wish  to  continue  the  study. 

Hardy,  Mrs  Mary  Earle.  j  591.92  H26 

Sea  stories  for  wonder  eyes.     1904.     Ginn. 

Secrets  of  the  sea  told  for  the  boys  and  girls  who  wonder.  Among  other  things 
tells  about  sea  fans,  the  little  sea-horse  and  the  star  that  ate  oysters,  bubble  blowers 
and  fountain  makers,  steeple  houses  and  chameleons  of  the  sea. 

Hare,  Christopher,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Marian  Andrews).  j  92  B333h 

Bayard,  the  good  knight  without  fear  and  without  reproach,  with 
coloured  illustrations  by  Herbert  Cole.     [1913-]     Dent. 

The  chevalier  de  Bayard  is  a  French  national  hero  and  one  of  the  most  renowned 
knights  of  chivalry.  He  distinguished  himself  in  the  Italian  campaigns  of  Charles  VIII 
and  Louis  XII,  and  many  of  his  exploits  are  here  related,  such  as  his  defense  of  the 
bridge  over  the  river  Garigliano,  which  he  held  single-  handed  fur  the  Bpace  oi  hall  an 
hour  against  200  Spaniards.  This  account  is  taken  from  the  old  Chronicle  of  the  I 
Servitor,"  probably  his  friend  and  companion-at-arms,  Jacques  de  Maillcs. 

Hare,  Thomas  Leman,  ed.  j  923-i  H26 

Portrait   book   of  our   kings   and    queens,    1066-1911,   done    in    coin 
memoration  of  the  coronation  of  Their   Majesties   King  George   V   & 
Queen  Mary,  with  supplementary  notes  on  the  ceremony;  the  histori- 
cal and  coronation  notes  by  C.  E.  Pascoe.     [1911.]     Jack. 

The  portraits  reproduced  in  colors  are  from  rare  prints  in  the  British  Museum  and 
from  originals  in  the  national  and  private  collections.  Includes  eight  plates  showing 
the    coronation    regalia.      Brief   descriptive    text    for    cacli    picture, 


160  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Harper,  William  Rainey,  ed.  j  923  H28 

Leaders  of  men.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new 
ser.  v.19.) 

Contents:  Moses,  by  A.  P.  Stanley. — Lycurgus,  by  Plutarch. — Alexander  the  Great, 
by  J.H.  Gurney. — Pericles,  by  Plutarch. — The  murder  of  Julius  Caesar,  by  J.  A.  Froude. 
— Charlemagne,  by  A.  H.  Stirling. — Alfred  the  Great,  by  G.  F.  Bosworth. — Mahomet, 
the  prophet  of  Islam,  by  Washington  Irving. — Peter  the  Great,  Frederick  the  Great,  by 
A.  H.  Stirling. — William  the  Silent,  by  J.  L.  Motley. — The  character  of  Washington, 
by  Gen.  Henry  Lee. — Lord  Clive,  by  Sir  Charles  Wilson. —Nelson,  by  Thomas  Carlyle. 
— The  duke  of  Wellington,  by  Lord  Roberts. — The  fall  of  Napoleon,  by  Viscount  Wolse- 
ley. — Ulysses  Simpson  Grant,  by  Matthew  Arnold. — Robert  E.  Lee,  by  Gen.  Wade 
Hampton. — Abraham  Lincoln,  by  J.  H.   Choate. 

j   793.I   H28 

Harper's  book  of  little  plays,  by  M.  S.  Briscoe  and  others;  selected  for 
home  and  school  entertainments,  with  an  introduction  by  M.  D.  Bar- 
num.     1910.     Harper. 

Contents:  The  frog  fairy,  by  M.  S.  Briscoe. — The  revolt  of  the  holidays,  by  E.  I. 
Stevenson. — The  Ninepin  Club,  by  C.  A.  Creevey  and  M.  E.  Sangster. — Familiar  quota- 
tions, by  P.  P.  Bermann. — The  tables  turned,  by  J.  K.  Bangs. — A  Thanksgiving  dream, 
by  C.  A.  Creevey  and  M.  E.  Sangster. 

Harris,  Ada  Van  Stone,  &  Gilbert,  C.  B.  comp.  j  821.08  H29 

Poems  by  grades,  containing  poems  selected  for  each  grade  of  the 
school  course,  poems  for  each  month  and  memory  gems.  2v.  1907. 
Scribner. 

V.i.     For  grades   i,  2,  3,  4. 
v.2.     For  grades   5,  6,   7,   8. 

Harris,  Ada  Van  Stone,  &  Waldo,  L.  M.  j  372.4  H29 

Toy  shop  book.     1915.     Scribner. 

Contents:  The  home. — The  family. — The  farm. — The  village. — The  circus. — Out- 
doors.— In-doors. 

Easy  reading  about  various  activities  of  child  life,  with  selections  from  Mother 
Goose,  Stevenson  and  others. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  H293a 

Aaron  in  the  wildwoods.    Houghton. 

Story  of  a  runaway  slave  and  a  little  cripple  who  lived  on  a  Georgia  plantation. 
Those  who  have  enjoyed  "The  story  of  Aaron"  will  be  pleased  to  follow  his  strange 
adventures  further. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  H293d 

Daddy  Jake  the  runaway,  and  short  stories  told  after  dark.  Cen- 
tury. 

The  "short  stories  told  after  dark"  are,  How  a  witch  was  caught. — The  little  boy 
and  his  dogs. — How  Black  Snake  caught  the  wolf. — Why  the  guineas  stay  awake. — How 
the  terrapin  was  taught  to  fly. — The  creature  with  no  claws. — Uncle  Remus's  wonder 
story. — The  rattlesnake  and  the  polecat. — How  the  birds  talk. — The  foolish  woman. — The 
adventures  of  Simon  and  Susanna. — Brother  Rabbit  and  the  gingercakes. — Brother  Rab- 
bit's courtship. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  H293I 

Little  Mr  Thimblefinger  and  his  queer  country.     Houghton. 

Surprising  experiences  of  some  children  in  a  queer  country  under  a  spring,  where 
Brother  Rabbit  relates  wonderful  stories,  such  as  The  ladder  of  lions. — How  Brother 
Bear's  hair  was  combed. — Why  Mr  Billy-goat's  tail  is  short. — The  bewitched  huntsman. 

The  same  [abridged].     Houghton.     (Riverside  holiday 
series.)    j  H293I2 

Title  reads  "Little  Mr  Thimblefinger  stories." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  161 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler,  ed.  j  H293me 

The  merry  maker.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new  ser. 
v.2.) 

Contents:  Funny  leaves  for  the  younger  branches,  by  Baron  Krakemsides. — The 
dragon's  story,  by  Tudor  Jenks. — Precocious  Piggy,  by  Thomas  Hood. — The  Cheshire 
cat  and  the  lobster  quadrille,  by  Lewis  Carroll. — Verses  from  Lilliput  Levee,  by  W.  B. 
Rand. — John  Gilpin's  ride,  by  William  Cowper. — The  Peterkins  celebrate  the  Fourth 
of  July,' by  L.  P.  Hale.— The  Rev.  Mr  Trotty,  by  E.  S.  Phelps.— Up  the  river,  by  J.  K. 
Jerome. — Queen  Alice,  by  Lewis  Carroll. — A  rustic  drama,  by  William  Shakespeare. — 
The  knight,  by  Lewis  Carroll. — The  Pickwickians  disport  themselves  on  the  ice,  by 
Charles  Dickens. — Baron  Munchausen  in  Russia,  by  R.  E.  Raspe. — An  experiment  in 
changing  colors,  by  Samuel  Warren. — Till  Owlglass'  funny  pranks,  by  J.  I.  Bull. — 
Among  the  lions  of  Algiers,  by  Alphonse  Daudet. — The  yarn  of  the  Nancy  Bell,  The 
highly  respectable  gondolier,  by  W.  S.  Gilbert. — My  double  and  how  he  undid  me,  by 
E.  E.  Hale. — The  jackdaw  of  Rheims.  by  R.  H.  Barham. — New  England  weather,  by 
Mark  Twain. — The  deacon's  masterpiece;  or,  The  wonderful  "one-hoss  shay,"  The  Dor- 
chester giant,  by  O.  W.  Holmes. — Limericks,  by  Edward  Lear. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  H293m 

Mr  Rabbit  at  home;  a  sequel  to  Little  Mr  Thimblefinger  and  his 
queer  country.    Houghton. 

Buster  John,  Sweetest  Susan  and  Drusilla,  of  the  "Little  Mr  Thimblefinger  stories," 
make  a  second  visit  to  Mr  Thimblefinger's  queer  country  and  hear  from  Mr  Rabbit  and 
Mrs  Meadows  a  number  of  odd  stories  about  Where  the  thunder  lives. — -The  jumping-off 
place. — The  blue  hen's  chicken. — The  cow  with  the  golden  horns,  and  other  strange 
animals. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  398  H2gn 

Nights  with  Uncle  Remus;  myths  and  legends  of  the  old  planta- 
tion.    1883.     Houghton. 

Adventures  of  Brer  Rabbit  and  sly  Brer  Fox,  just  as  Uncle  Remus  told  them  to  the 
"little  boy." 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  H2930 

On  the  plantation.     Appleton. 

A  Georgia  boy's  adventures  during  the  Civil  war. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  H293P 

Plantation  pageants.     Houghton. 

More  about  Buster  John,  Sweetest  Susan,  Drusilla,  Aaron  and  the  animals  on  the 
Georgia  plantation. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  H293S 

Story  of  Aaron.    Houghton. 

Aaron  is  a  slave  who  understands  the  language  of  animals.  The  children  who  visited 
Mr  Thimblefinger's  queer  country  are  also  in  the  story.     Pictures  by  Oliver  Herford. 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  398  H29U 

Uncle  Remus  and  his  friends;  old  plantation  stories,  songs  and  bal- 
lads, with  sketches  of  negro  character.     1897.     Houghton. 

Contains  Why  the  hawk  catches  chickens,  Why  Brother  Wolf  didn't  cat  the  little 
rabbits,  and  other  old  plantation  stories  told  by  Uncle   Remus 

Harris,  Joel  Chandler.  j  398  H29 

Uncle  Remus,  his  songs  and  his  sayings.     1894.    Appleton. 

The  material  for  this  volume  of  negro  folk-lure,  held  together  by  delightful  old 
Uncle  Remus,  was  gathered  at  first-hand  from  plantation   in.;.,,,  i;  '   tales 

and  the  manner  of  their  telling  are  uniquely   funny     an  endless  delight  for  children  and 
their  elders. 

Harrison,  Mrs  Amelia  (Williams).     See  Compton,  Margaret,  pseud. 


162  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Harrison,  Mrs  Burton.  j  793-1  C23 

Alice  in  Wonderland;  dramatized  by  Mrs  Burton  Harrison.  1890. 
Dramatic  Pub.  Co. 

A  play  for  children  in  three  acts  arranged  from  Lewis  Carroll's  "Alice's  adventures 
in  Wonderland,"  with  tableaux,  songs  and  dances. 

Harrison,  Mrs  Constance  Cary.    See  Harrison,  Mrs  Burton. 

Harrison,  Elizabeth.  j  H2g8ii 

In  story-land.    Sigma  Pub.  Co. 

Contents:  Little  Beta  and  the  lame  giant. — The  line  of  golden  light;  or,  The  little 
blind  sister. — Prince  Harweda  and  the  magic  prison. — The  little  gray  grandmother;  or, 
The  enchanted  mirror. — Little  Blessed-eyes;  or,  The  fairy's  birthday  gift. — The  fair 
white  city;  or,  A  story  of  the  past,  present  and  future. — The  loving  cup  which  was 
made  of  iron. — Hans  and  the  four  big  giants. — Story  of  the  small  green  caterpillar  and 
the  beautiful  white  butterfly. — The  discontented  mill  window. — The  strange  story  of  a 
wonderful  sea-god. — The  vision  of  Dante. — How  little  Cedric  became  a  knight.— J-Sto'ry 
of  Christopher  Columbus  for  little  children. — A  story  of  Decoration  day  for  the  little 
children  of  to-day. 

Harrison,  Herbert.  j  H2984I 

A  lad  of  Kent.    Macmillan. 

Adventures  on  the  Kentish  coast  in  the  early  part  of  the  19th  century,  when  free 
traders  and  press  gangs  abounded.  _, 

Harrison,  Peleg  Dennis.  j  929.9  H29 

Stars  and  Stripes  and  other  American  flags;  including  their  origin 
and  history,  the  origin  of  the  name  "Old  Glory,"  with  songs  and  their 
stories.     1906.     Little. 

Colored  illustrations. 

Hart,  Albert  Bushnell,  comp.  j  973.3  H31 

Camps  and  firesides  of  the  Revolution.  1902.  Macmillan.  (Source- 
readers  in  American  history,  v.2.) 

Contents:  Home  life. — Highways  and  byways. — The  Indians. — The  French  and 
the  Indian  wars. — Getting  ready  for  the  -Revolution. — Revolutionary  firesides. — In 
camp. — In  the  field. 

"The  actual  deeds,  experiences,  and  life  of  our  ancestors  were  in  themselves  so 
interesting,  often  so  romantic,  that  the  records  of  them  need  no  recasting."     Preface. 

This  book  contains  such  adventurous  tales  as  "How  Mackinac  was  taken  and  Detroit 
was  saved,"  the  story  of  the  brave  Wolfe,  told  by  one  of  the  party  who  stormed  the 
Plains  of  Abraham,  narratives  of  Indian  life  and  accounts  of  many  of  the  battles  and 
sieges  of  the  War  of  independence. 

Hart,  Albert  Bushnell,  ed.  j  973.2  H31 

Colonial  children.  1902.  Macmillan.  (Source-readers  in  American 
history,  v.i.) 

Contents:  Discovery  of  America. — On  the  sea. — In  the  wilderness. — Big  Indians 
and  little  Indians. — How  the  colonies  grew. — Little  folks. — Colonial  schools. 

Pictures  of  a  soldier's  outfit,  a  blockhouse,  a  colonial  kitchen,  a  hornbook,  a  sam- 
pler, a  school-boy's  trunk,  etc. 

Hart,  Albert  Bushnell,  ed.  j  973  H31 

How  our  grandfathers  lived.  1902.  Macmillan.  (Source-readers  in 
American  history,  v.3.) 

Anecdotes  and  incidents  illustrating  the  dangers  of  frontier  life  and  of  Indian  war- 
fare, naval  ballads  and  tales  of  the  War  of  1812,  accounts  of  school  life  and  of  old  cus- 
toms in  the  life  of  the  past. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  163 

Hart,  Albert  Bushnell,  comp.  j  973.7  H31 

Romance  of  the  Civil  war.     1903.     Macmillan.     (Source-readers  in 

American  history,  v.4.) 

Selections  are  from  the  personal  narratives  of  contemporaries  :  slaves,  slave-holders, 

privates,  nurses,  surgeons  and  chaplains,  as  well  as  novelists,  journalists  and  poets. 

Haskell,  Helen  Eggleston.  j  H33gk 

Katrinka;  the  story  of  a  Russian  child.  Dutton.  (Little  school- 
mate series.) 

Katrinka  is  a  little  peasant  girl  whose  parents  have  been  sent  into  exile.  The  story 
tells  how  she  takes  care  of  her  small  brother,  finds  her  way  to  Petrograd  and  finally 
wins  the  favor  of  the  czar. 

Haskell,  Helen  Eggleston.  j  H3390 

O-Heart-San;  the  story  of  a  Japanese  girl,  illustrated  in  colors  by 
F.  P.  Fairbanks.     Page.     (Roses  of  St.  Elizabeth  series.) 

Story  of  O-Heart-San  the  Beautiful,  of  Haru,  the  young  prince  imperial  of  Japan, 
and  of  Maid  Margery,  a  little  American  girl. 

Hasluck,  Paul  Nooncree.  j  621.94  H33 

Lathe-work.     1904.     Lockwood. 

Tells  of  tools,  appliances  and  processes  employed  in  the  art  of  turning,  including 
hand-turning,  boring  and  drilling,  the  use  of  slide  rests  and  overhead  gear,  screw-cutting 
by  hand  and  self-acting  motion,  wheel-cutting,  etc. 

Hathaway,  Esse  Virginia.  j  92  N129I1 

Napoleon,  the  little  Corsican.  1906.  Rand.  (Little  lives  of  great 
men.) 

"Reading  list,"  app.  p.16. 

Short  but  interesting  account  for  children  of  Napoleon's  boyhood,  his  first  cam- 
paigns and  his  great  achievements. 

Hauff,  Wilhelm. 

Fairy  tales.    See  his  Longnose  the  dwarf,  and  other  fairy  tales. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Hauff,  Wilhelm.  j  H35if 

Longnose  the  dwarf,  and  other  fairy  tales.     Allen. 

Other  tales:     History  of  little  Mook. — The  caliph  turned  stork. — Tin-  adventures  of 
Said. — The  stone-cold  heart. — The  story  of  the  silver   florin. 
Same  as  his  "Fairy  tales." 

Havell,  Herbert  Lorde.  j  882  H35 

Stories  from  Greek  tragedy.  Dodge.  (Told  through  the  ages  se- 
ries.) 

Contents:      Stories   from  ^Eschylus  :       Prometheus. —  The   house   of    Pelops ;   Aga- 
memnon.— Orestes. — Stories   from  Sophocles:     Antigone. — The  last  days  of  Hercules. 
F'hiloetetes. — Stories    from    Euripides:      Medea. — Alcestis. — Hecuba. 

Havell,  Herbert  Lorde.  j  873  V34h 

Stories  from  the  ^Eneid.  [1909.]  Dodge.  (Told  through  the  ages 
series.) 

Retells  the  story  of  Troy's  overthrow,  of  the  wanderings  of  ^Eneas  and  his  mishaps 
by  land  and  by  sea.  Illustrated  with  16  photographic  reproductions  of  famous  paintings, 
six  of  them  by  Burne-Jones. 

Havell,  Herbert  Lorde.  j  883  H7siha 

Stories  from  the  Iliad.     [1909.]     Dodge.     (Told  through  the  ages 

series.) 

Begins  with  the  quarrel  of  Achilles  and   Agamemnon   and   relates  the  exploits  of 

Diomed,  Hector,  Patroclus  and  other  heroes  of  the  Trojan  war.     Illustrated  \\itl> 

ductions  of  famous  pictures. 


1 64  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Havell,  Herbert  Lorde.  j  883  H750I1 

Stories  from  the  Odyssey.  [1909.]  Dodge.  (Told  through  the  ages 
series.) 

Wanderings  and  adventures  of  Ulysses  who,  for  10  long  years  after  the  fall  of 
Troy,  driven  by  "ruinous  winds"  and  pursued  by  the  vengeance  of  Neptune,  the  god  of 
the  sea, 

"So    much    encountered,    and    so    little   quailed." 

Illustrated  with  16  photographic  reproductions  of  famous  paintings,  including  Alma 
Tadema's  "Reading  from  Homer,"  Turner's  "Odysseus  and  Polyphemus,"  Burne-Jones's 
"Circe,"  and  Preller's  "Cattle  of  Helios." 

Hawkes,  Clarence.  j  590.4  H36 

The  boy  woodcrafter.     1913.     Browne. 

Contents:  Why  every  boy  should  be  a  naturalist. — One's  own  back  door  yard. — A 
wary  mother. — A  lively  bee  hunt. — The  speckled  heifer's  calf. — Camping  with  old  Ben. 
— Forest  footfalls. — In  the  hunter's  moon. — A  winter  walk. — Campfire  legends  of  the 
wood  folks. 

Hawks,  Ellison.  j  523  H36 

Stars  shown  to  the  children.  1910.  Jack.  ("Shown  to  the  chil- 
dren" series.) 

For  boys  and  girls  who  want  to  learn  about  the  sun  and  its  spots,  the  moon  moun- 
tains, planets,  comets,  meteors  and  stars.  Good  illustrations  from  photographs,  draw- 
ings and  colored  paintings.  Includes  a  color  sketch  from  the  Bayeux  tapestry,  showing 
the  appearance  of  Halley's  comet  in  1066. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j  920  H36b 

Biographical  stories.     1883.     Houghton. 

Contents:     Benjamin    West. — Sir   Isaac   Newton. — Samuel   Johnson. — Oliver   Crom- 
well.— Benjamin   Franklin. — Queen   Christina. 
Life  of  Hawthorne,  p.3-10. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j  974.4  H36 

Grandfather's  chair,  and  Biographical  stories.     1907.     Houghton. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "True  stories  from  history  and  biography." 
True  stories  from  New  England  history  told  by  grandfather  to  the  children.     In- 
cludes  The   pine-tree   shillings. — The   sunken    treasure. — The    Salem   witches. — The  old 
French  war  and  the  Acadian  exiles. — The   Boston   massacre. 

Biographical  stories:  Benjamin  West. — Sir  Isaac  Newton. — Samuel  Johnson. — 
Oliver   Cromwell. — Benjamin    Franklin. — Queen    Christina. 

Hawthorne,   Nathaniel.  j   H36yh 

House  of  the  seven  gables,  and  The  snow-image,  and  other  twice- 
told  tales.     Houghton. 

The  mystery  of  the  "House  of  the  seven  gables"  and  how  Judge  Pyncheon  "dree'd 
his  doom."     For  the  older  boys  and  girls. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j   H367I 

Little  Daffydowndilly,  and  other  stories;  with  a  biographical  sketch. 
Houghton.     (Riverside  literature  series.) 

Other  stories:  Little  Annie's  ramble. — The  snow-image. — A  rill  from  the  town 
pump. — David  Swan. — The  vision  of  the  fountain. — The  threefold  destiny. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j  H367m 

Marble  faun.     Houghton. 

The  romance  of  Miriam  and  Donatello,  whose  wonderful  resemblance  to  the  Faun 
of  Praxiteles  forms  the  keynote  of  the  story.  In  the  words  of  George  William  Curtis, 
"One  of  the  most  perfect  works  of  art  in  literature,  whose  marvellous  spell  begins  with 
the  very  opening  words." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  165 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j  H367mo 

Mosses  from  an  old  manse.     Houghton. 

Contents:  The  old  manse. — The  birthmark. — A  select  party. — Young  Goodman 
Brown. — Rappaccini's  daughter. — Mrs  Bullfrog.— Fire  worship. — Buds  and  bird  voices. 
— Monsieur  du  Miroir. — The  hall  of  fantasy. — The  celestial  railroad. — The  procession  of 
life. — Feathertop  ;  a  moralized  legend. — The  new  Adam  and  Eve. — Egotism  ;  or,  The 
bosom  serpent. — The  Christmas  banquet. — Drowne's  wooden  image. — The  intelligence  of- 
fice.— Roger  Malvin's  burial. — P.'s  correspondence. — Earth's  holocaust. — Passages  from 
a  relinquished  work. — Sketches  from  memory. — The  old  apple  dealer. — The  artist  of  the 
beautiful. — A  virtuoso's  collection. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  qj  292  H36t 

Tanglewood  tales  for  girls  and  boys;  a  second  Wonder-book.  1887. 
Houghton. 

Contents:  The  Minotaur. — The  pygmies. — The  dragon's  teeth. — Circe's  palace. — 
The  pomegranate  seeds. — The  golden  fleece. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel. 

True  stories  from  history  and  biography.  See  his  Grandfather's 
chair,  and  Biographical  stories. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j  H367t 

Twice-told  tales.     Houghton. 

Contents:  The  gray  champion. — Sunday  at  home. — The  wedding  knell.  —The  min- 
ister's black  veil. — The  Maypole  of  Merry  Mount. — The  gentle  boy. — Mr  Higginbotham's 
catastrophe. — Little  Annie's  ramble. — Wakefield. — A  rill  from  the  town  pump. — The  great 
carbuncle. — The  prophetic  pictures. — David  Swan. — Sights  from  a  steeple. — The  hollow 
of  the  three  hills. — The  toll-gatherer's  day. — The  vision  of  the  fountain. — Fancy's  show 
box. — Dr  Heidegger's  experiment. — Legends  of  the  Province  house:  Howe's  masquer- 
ade; Edward  Randolph's  portrait;  Lady  Eleanore's  mantle;  Old  Esther  Dudley. — The 
haunted  mind. — The  village  uncle. — The  ambitious  guest. — The  sister  years. — Snow- 
flakes. — The  seven  vagabonds. — The  white  old  maid. — Peter  Goldthwaite's  treasure. — 
Chippings  with  a  chisel. — The  Shaker  bridal. — Night  sketches. — Endicott  and  the  red 
cross. — The  lily's  quest. — Footprints  on  the  sea-shore. — Edward  Fane's  rosebud. — The 
threefold  destiny. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j  974.4  H36g 

Whole  history  of  grandfather's  chair;  or,  True  stories  from  New 
England  history,  1620-1803.     1896.     Houghton. 

Among  the  stories  told  by  grandfather  to  the  children  arc,  The  pine-tree  shillings. — 
The  sunken  treasure. — The  Salem  witches. — The  old  French  war  and  the  Acadian  ex- 
iles.— The  Boston  massacre. 

"Sketch  of  the   life  of   Nathaniel   Hawthorne,"   p. 5-24. 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel.  j  292  H36WO 

Wonder-book  for  girls  and  boys.    Houghton. 

Contents:  The  gorgon's  head. — The  golden  touch. — The  paradise  of  children. — The 
three  golden  apples. — The  miraculous  pitcher. — The  chim  1 

A  beautiful  edition  with  colored  pictures  by  Walter   Crane. 

The  same,  and  Tanglewood  tales  for  girls  and  boys,  with  pictures 
by  Maxfield  Parrish.     1910.    Duffield j  292  H36W02 

The  same;  illustrated  by  E.  P.  Abbott  and  II.  A.  Knipe.  [1914.] 
Jacobs j  292  H36W03 

Hayes,  Isaac  Israel.  j  H372C 

Cast  away  in  the  cold.     Lothrop. 

An  old  sailor  tells  how  he  ran  away  to  sea,  oi  the  Bhipwreck  of  the  "Blackbird"  and 
of  the  adventures  which  befell  him  on  .1  lonely  island  in  the    Vrctic  sea. 


1 66  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Hazard,  Bertha,  comp.  j  821.08  H37 

Three  years  with  the  poets.     1904.     Houghton. 

Good  poems  for  children  to  learn  during  the  first  years  in  school. 

Hazard,  Blanche  Evans.  j  973-1  H37a 

Indians  and  pioneers;  a  history  for  young  people;  ed.  by  S.  T.  Dut- 
ton.     1913.     Silver. 

Beginning  with  prehistoric  America,  tells  of  the  people  of  the  ice  age,  the  mound- 
builders,  the  cliff-dwellers,  the  Indians,  the  early  explorers  and  the  first  settlements. 
Suggestions  for  review  exercises  in  the  form  of  games  and  dramatizations  are  given  for 
the  teacher. 

Head,  Mrs  Henry.    See  Head,  Mrs  Ruth  (Mayhew). 

Head,  Mrs  Ruth  (Mayhew).  j  759  H38 

How  to  enjoy  pictures.     [1914.]     Stokes. 

Contents:  Italy  and  her  painters. — Early  Flemish  painters. — The  German  painters. 
— Later  Flemish  painters. — Dutch  painters. — The  Spanish  painters. — French  painters. — 
The  English  school  of  painters. 

Thirty-four  full-page  plates,  most  of  them  in  color 

Headland,  Isaac  Taylor.  j  9I5-1  H38 

The  Chinese  boy  and  girl.     1901.     Revell. 

Contents:  The  nursery  and  its  rhymes. — Children  and  child-life. — Games  played  by 
boys. — Games  played  by  girls. — The  toys  children  play  with. — Block  games;  kindergarten. 
— Children's    shows    and   entertainments. — Juvenile  juggling. — Stories    told    to    children. 

Many  pictures. 

Headland,  Isaac  Taylor,  tr.  j  398.8  H38 

Chinese  Mother  Goose  rhymes  [Chinese  and  English  text].  1900. 
Revell. 

Over    100   nursery   ditties   and   jolly   jingles   translated    from   the    Chinese.      It    is   a 
delightful  book  to  look  at,  for  on  every  page  are  rolling,  tumbling,  playing  Chinese  chil- 
dren.     The    pictures   are    from    photographs    taken    by    the    translator    in    China,    native 
mothers  and  children  posing  for  each  rhyme.     The  following  is  one  of  the  rhymes: 
"Fire-fly,   fire-fly, 

Come  from  the  hill, 

Your  father  and  mother 

Are  waiting  here  still; 

They've    brought    you    some    sugar, 

Some  candy  and  meat, 

Come  quick,  or  I'll  give  it 

To  baby  to  eat." 

Headland,  Isaac  Taylor.  j  915. 1  H380 

Our  little  Chinese  cousin.     1903.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Account  of  the  childhood  of  a  little  Chinese  girl.  Illustrated  with  photographs  and 
Chinese  drawings. 

Hedin,  Sven.  j  910  H39 

From  pole  to  pole;  a  book  for  young  people.     1914.    Macmillan. 

Pt.i  is  based  on  the  author's  own  travels  and  describes  his  different  journeys  from 
Stockholm  to  Constantinople,  through  Persia  and  Eastern  Turkestan,  and  in  Tibet  the 
"forbidden  land,"  India,  China  and  Japan.  Pt.2  has  chapters  on  Africa,  North  and 
South  America,  the  South  seas  and  the  polar  regions,  and  includes  accounts  of  Living- 
stone, Stanley,  and  other  explorers.     Maps  and  pictures. 

Hegan,  Alice  Caldwell.    See  Rice,  Mrs  Alice  Caldwell  (Hegan). 
Heilprin,  Angelo.  j  551  H41 

The  earth  and  its  story;  a  first  book  of  geology.     1897.    Silver. 

Partial  contents:  What  the  rocks  teach. — Snow  and  glaciers. — The  work  of  under- 
ground waters. — The  earth  in  its  interior. — Volcanoes  and  what  they  teach. — Corals  and 
coral  islands. — Some  of  the  common  and  more   useful  metals  and   minerals. 

Many  illustrations. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  167 

Heller,  Mrs  T.  E.  &  Bates,  Lois,  cd.  j  398  H42 

Little  Golden  Hood,  and  other  stories.     1903.     Longmans. 

Other  stories:  A  fairy  tale  of  a  fox. — Snowdrop. — The  good  little  mouse. — Brother 
and  sister. — Jack  and  the  bean  stalk. 

Hemenway,  Herbert  Daniel.  j  716.6  H43 

Hints  and  helps  for  young  gardeners;  a  treatise  designed  for  those 

young  in  experience  as  well  as  youthful  gardeners.    1911.    Privately 

printed. 

Relates  especially  to  school  gardens.     Clear  and  detailed  directions  are   given. 

Hemstreet,  Charles.  j  974.71  H43 

Story  of  Manhattan.     1901.     Scribner. 

From  the  discoveries  of  Henry  Hudson  to  the  establishment  of  greater  New  York. 
Illustrations   from  old  prints  and  engravings. 

Henley,  William  Ernest,  comp.  j  821.08  H44 

Lyra  heroica;  a  book  of  verse  for  boys.     1891.     Scribner. 

Stirring  lyrics  and  ballads  of  English  and  American  literature  from  Shakespeare  to 
Rudyard  Kipling.  Among  them,  such  poems  as  Alexander's  feast. — Chevy  Chase. — Sir 
Patrick  Spens. — Boadicea. — Lochinvar. — Sennacherib. — Horatius. — Slaying  of  the  Nib- 
lungs. — A  ballad  of  East  and  West. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456at 

At  Aboukir  and  Acre;  a  story  of  Napoleon's  invasion  of  Egypt. 
Scribner. 

Describes  the  naval  batjle  of  Aboukir  bay,  the  battle  of  Alexandria,  the  siege  of 
Acre  and  a  cruise  in  search  of  pirates  among  the  islands  of  the  Grecian   archipelago. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456a 

At  Agincourt.     Scribner. 

Adventurous  story  of  an  English  page  who,  with  his  mistress,  was  held  as  a  hostage 
in  Paris  in  the  turbulent  days  of  the  "White  Hoods." 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456be 

Beric  the  Briton;  a  story  of  the  Roman  invasion.     Scribner. 

The  boy-chief  of  a  British  tribe  becomes  a  warrior,  a  gladiator,  and  later  leads  a 
revolt  in  Nero's  palace.     The  burning  of  Rome  is  one  of  the  incidents. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456bo 

Bonnie  Prince  Charlie.     Scribner. 

Adventures  of  a  Scotch  officer's  son  in  the  French  service. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456bot 

Both  sides  the  border.     Scribner. 
Tale  of  Hotspur  and   Glendower,   ending   with   the   battle  of   Shrewsbury. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456bra 

Bravest  of  the  brave;  or,  With  Peterborough  in  Spain.    Scribner. 

The   fortunes  of  a   young   aide-de-camp  under   Lord  Peterborough    during   the    \\ 
of  the  Spanish  succession. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456b 

By  England's  aid.     Scribner. 
Tells  of  Holland's  struggle  to  throw  off  thi  Spain.     Should  be  read  after 

"By   [like  and   dyke." 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456by 

By  pike  and  dyke.     Scribner. 

The  hero  is  the  boh  of  ;m   Engli  in       He  'liters  the  service  of   William 

of  Orange  and   fights  with   the  men   oi    Holland   in  theii    beleaguered   towi 


1 68  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456br 

By  right  of  conquest;  or,  With  Cortez  in  Mexico.     Scribner. 

Adventures  of  an  English  boy,  the  sole  survivor  of  the  good  ship  Swan,  which  had 
sailed  from  a  Devon  port  to  challenge  the  supremacy  of  the  Spaniards  in  the  New 
World. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456bys 

By  sheer  pluck;  a  tale  of  the  Ashanti  war.    Scribner. 
Conflict  in  Africa  between  the  English  of  the  Gold  Coast  and  the  Ashantis,  1873-74. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456ct 

The  cat  of  Bubastes;  a  tale  of  ancient  Egypt.    Scribner. 

Of  the  calamity  which  befell  the  household  of  Ameres,  high-priest  of  Osiris,  through 
the  accidental  slaying  of  the  sacred  cat  of  Bubastes. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456CO 

The  cornet  of  horse;  a  tale  of  Marlborough's  wars.     Low. 

Marlborough's  campaigns  in  the  War  of  the  Spanish  succession  and  the  exploits  of 
Rupert  Holliday,  the  "Little  Cornet." 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456d 

Dash  for  Khartoum.    Scribner. 

Adventures  of  two  boys  in  the  Gordon  relief  expedition. 
Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456dr 

Dragon  and  the  raven.    Scribner. 

In  the  days  of  King  Alfred,  a  young  Saxon  thane  fought  both  on  land  and  on  sea 
against  the  Norse  sea-kings  and  did  many  valiant  deeds. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456fa 

Facing  death;  or,  The  hero  of  the  Vaughan  pit;  a  tale  of  the  coal 
mines.     Scribner. 

How  Jack  Simpson,  by  his  pluck  and  perseverance,  not  only  became  the  hero  of 
the  Vaughan  pit,  but  rose  from  the  position  of  pit-boy  to  that  of  manager  of  a  coal- 
mine. 

Henty,  George  Alfred,  ed.  j  910  H45f 

Famous  travels.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new 
ser.  v.12.) 

Contents:  Impressions  of  Cape  Town,  by  R.J.  Cleveland. — Four  months  in 
Uganda,  by  Captain  Speke. — The  discovery  of  the  Victoria  Nyanza,  by  Captain  Burton. 
— Mungo  Park's  perils,  by  T.  B.  MacLachlan. — The  buffalo  on  the  plains,  by  F.  Park- 
man. — In  the  great  American  desert,  by  Washington  Irving. — Hardships  of  Arctic  travel, 
by  E.  K.  Kane. — Commander  Cook's  last  voyage,  1776,  by  W.  H.  G.  Kingston. — Life  in 
the  Australian  bush. — In  Canada,  by  the  marquis  of  Lome. — In  Ceylon,  by  W.  Urwick. 
— Glimpses  of  the  East,  by  A.  W.  Kinglake. — The  second  cataract,  by  A.  B.  Edwards. — 
Impressions  of  England,  by  R.  W.  Emerson. — Stratford-on-Avon,  by  Washington  Irving. 
— Views  afoot  in  Europe,  by  Bayard  Taylor. — Canoeing  on  the  Rhine,  by  J.  MacGregor. 
— Among  the  dead  cities  of  the  Zuyder  Zee,  by  Henry  Havard. — The  wonders  of  Ice- 
land, by  Lord  Dufferin. — The  Taj  Mahal,  by  W.  Urwick.— Pictures  from  Italy,  by 
Charles  Dickens. — A  visit  to  the  island  of  Juan  Fernandez,  by  R.  H.  Dana. — Scenes  in 
Tangier,  by  T.  B.  Aldrich. — The  forests  of  New  Brunswick,  by  the  marquis  of  Lome. — 
Traveling  in  northern  Russia,  by  A.  D.  M.  Wallace. — Bazaars;  an  oriental  scene,  by 
G.  W.  Curtis. — At  Tahiti,  by  Lady  Brassey. — Journeying  in  Spain,  by  Washington 
Irving. — Biographical  notes. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456fi 

A  final  reckoning;  a  tale  of  bush  life  in  Australia.     Scribner. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456fo 

For  name  and  fame;  or,  Through  Afghan  passes.    Scribner. 

An  English  boy  stolen  from  his  home  by  gipsies  when  a  child  has  various  adven- 
tures at  sea  and  among  the  Malays,  finally  enlisting  in  the  English  army  in  India  where 
he  shares  in  the  dangers  of  the  Afghanistan  campaign. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS  -Al'THOR  LIST  169 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H4561 

For  the  temple;  a  tale  of  the  fall  of  Jerusalem.     Scribner. 
Exploits   of  John   of  Gamala   at  the   time  of  the  Jewish   resistance   to   the   Roman 

power,  ending  with  the  siege  and   fall   of  Jerusalem. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456h 

Held  fast  for  England.     Scribner. 

Deals  with  one  of  the  most  memorable  sieges  in  history — the  siege  of  Gibraltar, 
1779-83,  by  the  united  forces  of  France  and  Spain. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456inf 

In  freedom's  cause.    Scribner. 

How  Archie  Forbes  fought  in  the  Scottish  war  for  independence.  For  more  about 
the  daring  deeds  and  patriotic  sacrifices  of  William  Wallace  and  Robert  Bruce  read 
"Scottish  chiefs"  or  "Tales  of  a  grandfather." 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456ing 

In  Greek  waters;  a  story  of  the  Grecian  war  of  independence,  1821- 
1827.    Scribner. 

Mr  Beveridge  and  his  son  Horace  fit  out  a  privateer,  load  it  with  military  stores 
and  set  sail  for  Greece.  They  rescue  the  Christians,  relieve  the  captive  Greeks  and 
fight  the  Turkish  vessels. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456i 

In  the  Reign  of  terror.     Scribner. 

Perils  of  an  English  boy  during  the  French  revolution. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456ja 

Jack  Archer;  a  tale  of  the  Crimea.     Low. 

Part  taken  by  a  young  midshipman  in  the  Crimean  war.  Describes  the  charge  of 
the  Light  Brigade  at  Balaclava,  the  repulse  at  the  Redan  and  the  capture  of  Sebastopol. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456J 

Jacobite  exile.     Scribner. 

Adventures  of  a  young  Englishman  who  was  in  the  service  of  Charles  XII  of 
Sweden  during  several  famous  campaigns  against  the  Russians  and  Poles. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456k 

Knight  of  the  white  cross.     Scribner. 

A  young  knight  of  the  military  order  of  St.  John  captures  a  corsair  fleet,  takes 
part  in  the  defense  of  Rhodes  against  the  Turks  and  does  other  valorous  deeds. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456I 

Lion    of   the    North;    a    tale   of    the    times    of    Gustavus   Adolphus. 

Scribner. 

Covers  the  first  part  of  the  Thirty  years'  war,  beginning  with  Sweden's  entry  into 
the  struggle,  under  Gustavus  Adolphus,  and  ending  with  his  death  and  that  of  his  great 
rival  Wallenstein.     "Won  by  the  sword"  continues  the  history  of  this  war. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456ma 

Maori  and  settler;  a  story  of  the  New  Zealand  war.     Scribner. 
Experiences  of  the  Renshaws,  who  emigrate  to  New  Zealand  during  the  wars  with 

the  natives. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H4561T1 

March  on  London;  a  story  of  Wat  Tyler's  insurrection.     Scribner, 

Wat  Tyler's  rebellion,  the  civil  war  in  Flanders  and  the  disastrous  expedition 
against  the  French  led  by  the  bishop  of  Norwich,  are  the  principal  events  in  this  story 
of  the  reign  of   Richard   II. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456on 

On  the  Irrawaddy.    Scribner. 

Story  of  the  f>        I  Sir   Archibald  Campbell  and   Band  imong 

the  characters. 


i7o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H4560 

One  of  the  28th.     Scribner. 

The  hero  enters  the  army  and  after  some  rough  service  in  Ireland  takes  part  in  the 
Waterloo  campaign.  The  story  of  a  lost  will  is  interwoven  with  the  account  of  the 
military  exploits. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456st 

St.  George  for  England;  a  tale  of  Cressy  and  Poitiers.    Scribner. 

Right  gallantly  did  Walter  Somers  bear  himself  in  the  grand  assault-at-arms  during 
the  London  games  and  no  less  gallantly  when  in  the  troop  of  the  Black  Prince  he  rode 
to  the  French  wars. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456th 

Through  Russian  snows.     Scribner. 

Napoleon's  retreat  from  Moscow,  giving  an  account  of  the  flight  at  Smolensk  and 
the  terrible  struggle  at  Borodino. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456ti 

Tiger  of  Mysore.     Scribner. 

During  the  Indian  war  with  Tippoo  Saib,  an  English  boy  attempts  the  rescue  of 
his  father,  a  captive  for  nine  years  of  the  "Tiger  of  Mysore." 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H45611 

Under  Drake's  flag.    Scribner. 

What  befell  a  Devon  boy  who  sailed  with  the  expeditions  of  Master  Francis  Drake 
to  the  Spanish  Main.  Read  also  "Drake,  the  sea-king  of  Devon,"  by  Towle,  which  also 
tells  of  the  life  of  this  bold  buccaneer  and  foremost  captain  of  his  time. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456un 

Under  Wellington's  command;  a  tale  of  the  Peninsular  war.  Scrib- 
ner. 

Sequel  to  "With  Moore  at  Corunna."  The  hero,  Terence  O'Connor,  is  present  at 
the  battles  of  Talavera,  Almeida  and  Fuentes  D'Onoro  and  renders  valuable  services 
at  the  time  of  the  sack  of  Ciudad  Rodrigo. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456W 

With  Clive  in  India.    Scribner. 

Adventurous  career  of  an  English  lad  in  India;  how  he  was  captured  by  Mahratta 
pirates,  and  imprisoned  in  the  Black  Hole  of  Calcutta,  and  how  he  fought  with  Clive  in 
many  a  desperate  battle  and  siege. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456WC 

With  Cochrane  the  Dauntless.    Scribner. 
Exploits  of  Lord  Cochrane  in  South  American  waters. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456wf 

With  Frederick  the  Great;  a  story  of  the  Seven  years'  war.    Scribner. 

A  Scotch  lad  enters  the  service  of  Frederick  the  Great.  Attached  to  the  king's 
staff  he  shares  in  all  the  great  events  and  memorable  battles  of  the  Seven  years  war. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456wk 

With  Kitchener  in  the  Soudan;  a  story  of  Atbara  and  Omdurman. 
Scribner. 

The  young  hero  goes  in  disguise  into  one  of  the  dervish  camps,  is  captured  by 
Arabs  and  has  other  adventures  at  the  time  of  Kitchener's  Sudan  campaign. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456wm 

With  Moore  at  Corunna.     Scribner. 

An  Irish  lad,  Terence  O'Connor,  served  as  aide-de-camp  in  the  arduous  campaign 
which  ended  at  Corunna,  and  later  rendered  valuable  service  on  the  staff  of  Sir  John 
Cradock.     "Under  Wellington's  command"  continues  the  story  of  the  Peninsular  war. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  171 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456wi 

With  Wolfe  in  Canada.     Scribner. 

Perilous  exploits  of  a  young  Englishman  who  was  captain  of  a  company  of  scouts 
during  the  French  and  Indian  war. 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456WO 

Won  by  the  sword;  a  tale  of  the  Thirty  years'  war.     Blackie. 
Scene  is  laid  in  France  during  the  latter  part  of  the  Thirty  years'  war — the  time  of 

Richelieu,  of  Mazarin  and  Anne  of  Austria.     The  hero  is  the  orphan  son  of  a  Scotch 

officer  in  the  French  army.     Follows  "The  lion  of  the  North." 

Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456WU 

Wulf  the  Saxon.     Scribner. 

Story  of  the  Norman  conquest. 
Henty,  George  Alfred.  j  H456y 

Young  Carthaginian.     Scribner. 

Story  of  the  times  of  Hannibal. 

Hepbron,  George  T.  ed.  j  796.34  H45 

Official  basket  ball  rules  as  adopted  by  the  Amateur  Athletic  Union 
and   Young   Men's    Christian   Association    Athletic    League    of    North 
America.    American  Sports  Pub.  Co.     (Spalding's  athletic  library.) 
Herbst,  Eva.  j  221  H46 

Tales  and  customs  of  the  ancient  Hebrews,  for  young  readers.  1903. 
Flanagan. 

Contents:  David. — Story  of  Moses. — Story  of  Ruth. — Story  of  Joseph. — David  and 
Goliath.— David  and  Jonathan. 

Bible  stories  retold  for  little  children  with  descriptions  of  manners  and  customs. 
Large  print.     Outline  pictures. 

Herford,  Oliver.  j  817  H46C 

Child's  primer  of  natural  history.     1899.    Scribner. 

Verses  with  pictures  by  the  author. 

"Children,   be-hold  the  Chim-pan-zee: 
He  sits  on  the  an-ces-tral  tree 
From  which  we  sprang  in  ag-es  gone. 
I'm   glad  we   sprang;    had  we   held    on, 
We  might,  for  aught  that  I  can  say, 
Be  hor-rid  Chim-pan-zees  today." 

Herodotus.  History.    For  adaptation  sec 

Church,  A.J.  ed.    Stories  of  the  East  from  Herodotus j  888  H47 

Church,  A.  J.  ed.     Story  of  the  Persian  war j  888  H47C 

White,  J.  S.  ed.     Boys'  and  girls'  Herodotus j  888  H47b 

Herrick,  Mrs  Sophie  Mcllvaine  (Bledsoe).  j  550  H47 

The  earth  in  past  ages.     1888.     Harper. 

The  wonderful  geological  story  of  the  earth,  of  the  reign  of  fire  and  of  the  "Ice- 
king,"  and  of  the  strange  plant  and  animal  life  in   different  periods. 

Higby,  Clinton  D.  j  353.9  H53 

Government  of  Pennsylvania  and  the  nation.      [912.      II  rath. 
Explains  clearly   the  government  of  Pennsylvania,   the   part  conducted  by  the  state 

and  the  part  administered  by  the  nation. 

Higgins,  Myrta  Margaret.  j  716  H53 

Little  gardens  for  boys  and  girls.     1910.     Houghton. 

Describes  simply  and  interestingly  the  preparation  of  the  soil,  the  growth  of  plants 
from  seeds,  different  garden  tools,  etc.  Gives  diagrams  for  laying  out  gardens  and 
rules   for  planting  and  cultivating. 


172  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Higginson,  Thomas  Wentworth,  &  MacDonald,  William.       j  973  H53h 
History  of  the  United  States,  from  986  to  1905.     1905.    Harper. 

Mainly  a  continuation  of  Mr  Higginson's  "Larger  history  of  the  United  States," 
bringing  it  to  the  present  time   (1905).     Illustrated. 

Higginson,  Thomas  Wentworth.  j  398.2  H53 

Tales  of  the  enchanted  islands  of  the  Atlantic.     1898.     Macmillan. 

In  times  past  there  were  enchanted  islands  in  the  Atlantic,  islands  of  demons, 
islands  which  appeared  and  disappeared  mysteriously,  islands  about  which  weird  legends 
hovered  and  whose  heroes  were  Taliessin  of  the  Radiant  Brow,  the  Swan-children  of  Lir, 
St.  Brandan,  Harald  the  viking  and  others. 

Higginson,  Thomas  Wentworth.  j  973.1  H53 

Young  folks'  book  of  American  explorers.  1894.  Longmans. 
Contents:  Legends  of  the  Northmen. — Columbus  and  his  companions. — Cabot  and 
Verrazzano. — The  strange  voyage  of  Cabeza  de  Vaca. — The  French  in  Canada. — Adven- 
tures of  De  Soto. — The  French  in  Florida. — Sir  Humphrey  Gilbert. — The  lost  colonies 
of  Virginia. — Unsuccessful  New  England  settlements. — Captain  John  Smith. — Cham- 
plain  on  the  war-path. — Henry  Hudson  and  the  New  Netherlands. — The  Pilgrims  at 
Plymouth. — The  Massachusetts  Bay  colony. 

Extracts  from  the  original  narratives  of  the  discoverers  and  explorers  of  the  Amer- 
ican coast. 

Higginson,  Thomas  Wentworth.  j  973  H53 

Young  folks'  history  of  the  United  States.     1902.     Longmans. 

"Books  for  consultation,"  p.349-354. 

Written  in  a  particularly  simple  and  interesting  way.  Less  space  than  usual  is 
given  to  the  events  of  war  and  more  to  the  affairs  of  peace.  Contains  maps  and  many 
pictures. 

Hill,  Charles  Thaxter.  j  352.3  Hssa 

Fighting  a  fire.     1916.     Century. 

Contents:  Fighting  a  fire. — A  school  for  firemen. — An  alarm  of  fire  by  telegraph. 
— The  risks  of  a  fireman's  life. — Peter  Spots,  fireman. — Floating  fire-engines. — The  fire- 
patrol. — The  "big  guns"  of  a  fire  department. — Curious  fires. 

Describes  the  workings  of  the  New  York  city  fire  department. 

Hill,  Frederick  Trevor.  j  92  G78gh 

On  the  trail  of  Grant  and  Lee;  a  narrative  history  of  the  boyhood 

and  manhood  of  two  great  Americans,  based  upon  their  own  writings, 

official  records  and  other  authoritative  information.     191 1.     Appleton. 

(National  holiday  series.) 
"Authorities,"  p.305. 
Chiefly  an  account  of  the  Civil  war  campaigns  in  which  Grant  and  Lee  took  part. 

Indicates  clearly  the  qualities  in  each  commander  which  made  him  a  great  soldier  and 

a  leader  of  men.     Six  pictures  in  color  and  other  illustrations. 

Hill,  G.  F.  j  821  H55 

Truth  about  old  King  Cole,  and  other  very  natural  histories,  with 
drawings  by  L.  L.  Brooke.     [1911.]     Warne. 

Told  in  verse.  The  other  very  natural  histories  are,  The  queer  camelopard. — The 
crafty  crocodile. — The  dinosaurs'  dance. — The  death  of  the  dodo. — Jee  and  Joe. — The 
dancing  ki-wi. — The  boastful  baboo. 

Six  full-page  pictures  in  color  and  others  in  black  and  white. 

Hill,  Mabel.  j  352  H55 

Lessons   for   junior   citizens,   with   an    introduction   by   A.  B.    Hart. 

1906.     Ginn. 

Appendix  contains  children's  and  teachers'  lists  of  books. 

In  story  form  describes  the  working  of  the  city  police,  fire  and  street  departments, 

the  park  commission,  juvenile  court,  etc.     Includes  chapter  on  the  peace  movement  and 

many  practical  suggestions  for  teachers. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  173 

Hinkson,  Mrs  Katharine  (Tynan).  j  Hs67g 

The  great  captain;  a  story  of  the  days  of  Sir  Walter  Raleigh.  Ben- 
ziger. 

Adventures  of  an   Irish   lad,  companion  of  Sir   Walter  Raleigh. 

Hinkson,  Mrs  Katharine  (Tynan).  j  914.15  H56 

Ireland,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  F.  S.  Walker.  1909.  Black. 
(Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

A  little  journey  in  Ireland,  telling  about  the  traits  and  ways  of  the  Irish  people 
and  about  Dublin,  Cork,  Gahvay,  Donegal  and  other  places. 

Hoar,  George  Frisbie,  ed.  j  172  H64 

Book  of  patriotism.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library, 
new  ser.  v.18.) 

Contents:  The  strenuous  life,  by  Theodore  Roosevelt. — Patriotism,  by  W.  H.  P. 
Faunce. — America,  by  Bayard  Taylor. — America  and  patriotism,  by  Archbishop  Ireland. 
— The  antiquity  of  freedom,  by  W.  C.  Bryant. — The  nation  and  the  patriot,  by  William 
Everett. — Liberty  for  all,  by  W.  L.  Garrison. — Patriotic  selfishness,  by  Charles  Sumner. 
— The  privilege  and  duties  of  patriotism,  by  T.  S.  King. — King  Richard's  love  for  Eng- 
lish soil,  by  William  Shakespeare. — The  state  and  the  states,  by  Rufus  Choate. — What  is 
liberty,  by  Josiah  Quincy,  jr. — The  march  of  human  freedom,  by  Theodore  Parker. — The 
permanence  of  the  Republic,  by  R.  S.  Storrs. — The  ambition  of  man,  by  Edward  Everett. 
— Arbitration,  by  D.  D.  Field. — The  gray  forest  eagle,  by  A.  B.  Street. — The  battle  of 
Salamis,  by  Aischylos,  tr.  by  E.  H.  Plumptre. — Leonidas,  by  George  Croly. — Dante  and 
the  union  of  Italy,  Robert  Bruce  and  the  independence  of  Scotland,  by  A.  H.  Stirling. — 
Freedom's  conspirators,  by  F.  von  Schiller,  tr.  by  E.  Marrie. — Speech  from  the  scaffold, 
by  Richard  Rumbold. — The  motives  of  conspiracy,  by  Robert  Emmet. — Brutus  and  An- 
tony, by  Shakespeare. — Hatred  of  despotism,  by  P.  V.  Vergniaud. — Charlotte  Corday  and 
the  French  revolution,  by  Julia  Kavanagh. — Proclamation  to  the  army,  To  soldiers  on 
entering  Milan,  by  Napoleon. — Revolutions,  by  Sir  Henry  Taylor. — Toussaint  L'Ouver- 
ture  and  the  revolution  of  Hayti,  by  J.  M.  Smith. — Speech  to  the  young  men  of  Italy, 
by  Giuseppe  Mazzini. — The  Boston  massacre,  by  John  Hancock. — The  settlement  of 
America,  by  Joseph  Warren. — Liberty  or  death,  by  Patrick  Henry. — The  character  of 
Washington,  by  E.  P.  Whipple. — The  picture  of  a  hero,  by  G.  M.  Dallas. — The  opening 
battle  of  the  Revolution,  by  G.  W.  Curtis. — Concord  hymn,  by  R.  W.  Emerson. — Nathan 
Hale. — General  Israel  Putnam,  by  H.  W.  R.  Hoyt. — Bunker  Hill  monument,  by  Daniel 
Webster.— Daniel  O'Connell,  by  Wendell  Phillips. — Liberty  and  union,  by  Daniel  Web- 
ster.— The  blue  and  the  gray,  by  F.  M.  Finch. — In  honor  of  patriot  heroes,  On  the  return 
of  the  battle  flags,  by  Gov.  Andrew. — Song  of  the  banner  at  daybreak,  by  Walt  Whit- 
man.— Old  Glory,  by  H.  W.  Beecher. — Commemoration  ode,  by  J.  R.  Lowell. — Gettysburg 
address,  by  Abraham  Lincoln. — Abraham  Lincoln,  by  Tom  Taylor. — A  national  hero,  by 
Rev.  J.  P.  Newman. 

Hodge,  Frederick  Webb,  ed.  j  970.1  H66 

Handbook  of  American  Indians  north  of  Mexico.  2v.  1907-10. 
Government  Printing  Office.  (United  States — Ethnology  bureau.  1  *» u  1  - 
letin  no.30.) 

"Contains  a  descriptive  list  of  the  stocks,  confederacies,  tribes,  tribal  divisions,  and 
settlements  north  of  Mexico,  accompanied  with  the  various  names  by  which  these  have 
been  known,  together  with  biographies  of  Indians  of  note,  sketches  of  their  history, 
archeology,  manners,  arts,  customs,  and  institutions,  and  the  aboriginal  words  in- 
corporated into  the  English  language." 

Arrangement  is  alphabetical.  Contains  large  map  showing  the  linguistic  families 
of  American  Indians  north  of  Mexico.     Illustrated. 

Hodges,  George.  j  221  H66 

The  castle  of  Zion;  stories  from  the  Old  testament.  i<m_\  Hough- 
ton. 

Hodges,  George.  j  221  H66g 

Garden  of  Eden;  stories  from  the  hist  nine  hooks  of  the  Old  testa- 
ment.    1909.     Houghton. 


1-4  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Hodges,  George.  j  922  H66 

Saints  and  heroes  to  the  end  of  the  middle  ages.     191 1.     Holt. 

Contents:  Cyprian. — Athanasins. — Ambrose. — Chrysostom. — Jerome. — Augustine. — 
Benedict. —  Gregory  the  Great. —  Columba. —  Charlemagne. — ■  Hildebrand. — ■  Anselm. — 
Bernard. — Becket. — Langton. — Dominic. — Francis. — Wycliffe. — Hus. — Savonarola. 

Hodges,  George.  j  232  H66 

When  the  King  came;  stories  from  the  four  Gospels.  1904.  Hough- 
ton. 

Story  of  the  life  of  Jesus  Christ  retold  from  the  Gospels. 

Hodgson,  Frederick  Thomas.  j  620  H66 

Mechanics  indoors  and  out.  191 1.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library 
of  work  and  play.) 

Contents:  A  pathway  of  cement. — Building  a  boat-house. — Bridge  and  boat  work. — 
Making  a  gasolene  launch. — A  talk  about  engines. — Propeller  and  other  screws. — Aero- 
planes.— Kites,  sundials,  patents. — Tides. — Wall  making  and  plumbing. — Some  practical 
advice. — Mechanical  movements. — The  weather  and  indoor  work. — Motors  and  type- 
writers. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  293  H67 

Book  of  the  sagas;  illustrated  by  Gordon  Browne.     [1913.]     Nister. 

Contents:  The  story  of  Odin  and  the  gods.— The  story  of  the  adventures  of  Thor. 
— The  story  of  Baldur. — The  story  of  Frey  and  Gerda. — The  story  of  the  goddess  Iduna. 
— Of  the  punishment  that  fell  on  Loki. — The  story  of  Harald  Hairfair. — The  story  of 
King  Olaf  Tryggvison. — The  story  of  Harald  the  Hardredy. — The  song  of  the  mill. — 
The  story  of  Volund.- — Stories  of  Iceland  folk.- — The  story  of  the  Volsungs. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H20 

Children's  Shakespeare;  stories  from  the  plays,  with  illustrative 
passages,  with  many  coloured  illustrations  by  Charles  Folkard.  191 1. 
Dent. 

Contents:  The  tempest. — A  midsummer  night's  dream.- — Much  ado  about  nothing. 
— The  merchant  of  Venice.— As  you  like  it. — The  taming  of  the  shrew. — Twelfth  night. 
— The  winter's  tale. — King  John.— King  Richard  II. — King  Henry  V. — Hamlet. — 
King  Lear. — Othello,  the  Moor  of  Venice. — Julius  Caesar. — Romeo  and  Juliet. — Mac- 
beth.— Cymbeline. — Coriolanus. — Pericles. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H17 

Story  of  a  Midsummer  night's  dream,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare, 

retold.  [1904.]  Dent.  (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 
The  magic-flower  charm  and  the  mischief  of  Puck;  the  story  of  a  fairy  play. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H18 

Story  of  As  you  like  it,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  retold.     1904. 

Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays   for  children.) 

A  merry  tale  of  Rosalind  and  Celia,  Orlando  and  Oliver,  the  banished  duke  and  the 

melancholy  Jaques,  and  of  all  that  happened  to  them  in  the  forest  of  Arden. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H23 

Story  of  Julius  Cassar,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  retold.  1905. 
Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

The  conspiracy  against  Caesar  and  how  he  was  avenged,  as  told  by  William  Shake- 
speare in  the  famous  historical  play. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H15 

Story  of  King  Henry  the  Fifth,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  re- 
told.    1904.     Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

How  a  soldier-king  warred  with  France. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  175 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H21 

Story  of  King  John,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  retold.  1905. 
Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

Of  the  troubled  reign  of  King  John  and  the  fate  of  the  unfortunate  prince  Arthur 
of  Brittany. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H22 

Story  of  King  Lear,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  retold.  1905. 
Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

There  once  ruled  in  Britain  a  king  named  Lear.  At  the  time  that  this  story  begins 
he  was  growing  old,  and  he  had  made  up  his  mind  to  divide  his  country  among  his  three 
daughters,  Goneril,  Regan  and  Cordelia.  The  story  tells  of  the  terrible  misfortunes  that 
followed. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H14 

Story  of  King  Richard  II,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  retold. 
1904.    Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

The  dethronement  of  Richard  II  and  the  usurpation  of  Henry  of  Lancaster. 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H24 

Story  of  Macbeth,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  retold.  1905.  Dent. 
(Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

The  prophecy  of  the  three  "weird  sisters"  and  how  it  was  fulfilled. 

"'All,  hail,  Macbeth!  hail  to  thee,  thane  of  Glamis!' 
'All  hail,  Macbeth!  hail  to  thee,  thane  of  Cawdor!' 
'All  hail,  Macbeth!  that  shalt  be  king  hereafter.'  " 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H16 

Story  of  The  merchant  of  Venice,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare, 

retold.     1904.     Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

The  sealing  of  the  fateful  bond  between  Antonio  and  the  crafty  Shylock;  a  pound 
of  flesh  forfeited  and  what  befell  Shylock  and  Antonio. 

"The  quality  of  mercy  is  not  strain'd; 
It  droppeth  as  the  gentle  rain  from  heaven 
Upon  the  place  beneath:   it  is  twice  blest; 
It  blesseth  him  that  gives  and   him  that  takes; 
'Tis  mightiest  in  the  mightiest:  it  becomes 
The  throned  monarch  better  than   his  crown, 
***** 

It  is  an  attribute  to  God  Himself; 

And  earthly  power  doth  then   show   likest  God's 

When   mercy  seasons   justice." 

Portia's  plea,  from   "The  merchant   of   Venice." 

Hoffman,  Alice  Spencer.  j  822.33  H19 

Story  of  The  tempest,  from  the  play  of  Shakespeare,  retold.  1904- 
Dent.     (Stories  from  Shakespeare's  plays  for  children.) 

An  island  story  of  mystery,  love  and  romance. 

"Where  the  bee  sucks,  there  suck  I ; 
In  a  cowslip's  bell   I   lie; 
There  I  couch  when  owls  do  cry. 
On  the  bat's  back  I   do  fly 
After  summer  merrily, 
Merrily,   merrily   shall    I    live   now 
Under  the  blossom  that  hangs  on   the  bough." 

Iriel,  the  fay,  from  "The  tempest." 


i;6  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Hoffmann,  Franz.  j  92  Lg^h 

Little  Dauphin  [Louis  XVII] ;  tr.  from  the  German  by  G.  P.  Upton. 
1905.    McClurg.     (Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

"The  story  of  Louis  Charles,  second  son  of  Louis  XVI  and  Marie  Antoinette,  is  one 
of  the  most  pathetic  in  the  history  of  royalty. .  .The  author  touches  upon  the  most 
striking  events  of  the  Revolution. .  .and  brings  out  in  strong  relief  the  character  of  the 
well-meaning  but  weak  king  and  imperious  Queen,  as  well  as  that  of  the  brutal  cobbler, 
Simon,  the  Dauphin's  keeper;  but  the  principal  interest  centres  in  the  pathetic  figure  of 
the  little  prince."     Preface. 

Hoffmann,  Heinrich.  qj  H6812S 

Slovenly  Peter;  or,  Cheerful  stories  and  funny  pictures.     Winston. 

Hofmann,  Mary  Christiana.  j  793  H68 

Games  for  everybody.     1905.     Dodge. 

Indoor  games  for  children  and  grown  people,  including  games  for  special  days. 

Holbrook,  Florence.  j  398  H69 

Book  of  nature  myths.     1902.     Houghton. 

Stories  telling  why  the  woodpecker's  head  is  red,  why  the  rabbit  is  timid,  why  the 
sea  is  salt,  how  fire  was  brought  to  the  Indians,  and  many  other  tales.  Intended  for  use 
as  a  second  reader. 

Holbrook,  Florence.  j  571  H69 

Cave,  mound  and  lake  dwellers,  and  other  primitive  people.  191 1. 
Heath. 

Tells  about  the  life  of  the  people  who  lived  in  the  early  days  of  the  world;  how  they 
obtained  fire,  how  they  cooked  their  food  and  about  their  homes,  dress  and  means  of 
travel. 

Holbrook,  Florence.  j  372.4  H6gd 

Dramatic  reader  for  lower  grades.     191 1.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Well  known  stories  and  legends,  such  as  Little  Red  Riding-hood,  Cinderella,  Hansel 
and  Gretel,  Robin  Hood  and  the  sad  knight,  and  William  Tell,  in  dialogue  form  for 
children  who  like  to  imagine  themselves  living  with  their  favorite  characters  in  forest, 
in  palace  or  in  fairyland. 

Holbrook,  Florence.  j  372.4  H69 

The  Hiawatha  primer.     [1898.]     Houghton. 
Based  on  Longfellow's  "Hiawatha."     Colored  pictures. 

Holbrook,  Florence.  j  292  H69 

'Round  the  year  in  myth  and  song.     [1897.]     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Myths  and  poems  suggested  by  the  beauties  of  nature  and  the  changing  seasons. 
The  greater  part  of  the  myths  are  Greek. 

Partial  contents:  Apollo  and  the  muses. — Aurora  and  Memnon. — Mercury.— .ZEolus. 
— Adonis. — Pandora. — Hero  and  Ganymede. — Arion. — The  finding  of  the  lyre. — Cupid 
and  Psyche. — Iris. 

Many  pictures. 

Holden,  Edward  Singleton.  j  523  H71 

Family  of  the  sun;  conversations  with  a  child.     1899.    Appleton. 

"All  the  planets  are  described  in  turn,  their  resemblances  and  differences  are 
brought  out,  and  their  family  relationship  is  explained.  .  .The  illustrations.  .  .have  been 
taken  from  many  sources,  in  particular  from  the  celestial  photographs  made  at  the  Lick 
Observatory."    Preface. 

Holden,  Edward  Singleton.  j  929.9  H71 

Our  country's  flag,  and  the  flags  of  foreign  countries.  1898.  Ap- 
pleton. 

History  of  our  national  flag  and  its  significance,  with  some  account  of  the  flags 
of  other  countries.  Explains  symbolism,  weather  signals,  uses  of  flags  at  sea,  salutes, 
signaling,  etc. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  177 

Holden,  Edward  Singleton.  j  500  H71 

The  sciences,  a  reading  book  for  children;  astronomy,  physics,  heat, 
light,  sound,  electricity,  magnetism,  chemistry,  physiography,  meteorol- 
ogy.    1903.     Ginn. 

Explains  many  mysteries,  such  as  the  rising  and  setting  of  the  stars,  the  phases 
of  the  moon,  the  uses  of  the  telescope,  reflection  of  light,  echoes,  causes  of  the  winds, 
etc. 

Holden,  Edward  Singleton,  ed.  j  504  H71W 

Wonders  of  earth,  sea  and  sky.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young 
folks'  library,  new  ser.  v.n.) 

Contents:  What  the  earth's  crust  is  made  of,  by  Agnes  Giberne. — America  the  old 
world,  by  L.  Agassiz. — Some  records  of  the  rocks,  by  N.  S.  Shaler. — The  pitch  lake  in 
the  West  Indies,  by  Charles  Kingsley. — A  stalagmite  cave,  by  Sir  C.  W.  Thomson. — The 
big  trees  of  California,  by  A.  R.  Wallace. — What  is  evolution?  by  E.  S.  Holden. — How 
the  soil  is  made,  by  Charles  Darwin. — Zoological  myths,  by  Andrew  Wilson. — On  a  piece 
of  chalk,  by  T.  H.  Huxley. — A  bit  of  sponge,  by  Andrew  Wilson. — The  greatest  sea-wave 
ever  known,  by  R.  A.  Proctor. — The  phosphorescent  sea,  by  W.  S.  Dallas. — Comets,  by 
Camille  Flammarion. — The  total  solar  eclipse  of  1883,  by  E.  S.  Holden. — Halos,  parhelia, 
the  spectre  of  the  Brocken,  etc.,  by  Camille  Flammarion. — The  planet  Venus,  by  A.  M. 
Clerke. — The  stars,  by  Sir  R.  S.  Ball. — Rain  and  snow,  by  John  Tyndall. — The  organic 
world,  by  St.  George  Mivart. — Inhabitants  of  my  pool,  by  A.  B.  Buckley. — Biographical 
notes. 

Holder,  Charles  Frederick.  j  H7i3a 

Adventures  of  Torqua.    Little. 

Being  the  life  and  remarkable  adventures  of  three  boys,  refugees  on  the  island  of 
Santa  Catalina  (Pimug-na)  in  the  18th  century. 

Holder,  Charles  Frederick.  j  599.6  H71 

The  ivory  king;  a  popular  history  of  the  elephant  and  its  allies. 
1897.    Scribner.     (Marvels  of  animal  life  series.) 

Bibliography,  p. 317-323. 

Treats  of  the  elephant  in  his  relation  to  man,  as  he  is  used  in  war,  in  sports  and  in 
labor,  as  well  as  of  his  structure  and  natural  habits. 

Holder,  Charles  Frederick.  j  590.4  H71S 

Stories  of  animal  life.     1899.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Partial  contents:  The  little  bear's  story. — Some  curious  fishermen. — War  elephants. 
— Feathered  giants. — A  dog's  trip  around  the  world. — Animal  mound  builders. — An 
ocean  swordsman. — Birds  of  the  ocean. 

Hole,  William.  qj  755  H71 

Life  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth;  80  pictures  by  William  Hole  [preface  by 
William  Sinclair  and  an  introductory  note  by  G.  A.  Smith].  [1908.] 
Eyre. 

Holland,  Edith.  j  92  M772h 

Mohammed.     1914-    Stokes.     (Heroes  of  all  time.  1 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Story  of  Mohammed." 

Account  of  the  life  of  Mohammed,  the  prophet  of  Arabia,  who  overthrew  idolatry 
and  established   the   faith   of   Islam.     Illustrated. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  H724bl 

Blue  heron's  feather;   the  story  of  a   Dutch   boy   in   the    American 

colony  of  New  Netherland,  with  illustrations  by  Will  Thomson.     Lip- 

pincott. 

'I'lic  young  patroon  "f  Tappan  ma  Hudson  baa  varioua  adventures  among 

the  Indians  and  the   French,  is  adopted  by  the  Mohawks  and   finally  effects  an  alliance 

between  them  and  the  Dutch.    'I  h.-  period  is  ili.it  of  Governoi   Woutei    Van  Twiller. 


i;8  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  H724D 

The  boy  scouts  of  Birch-bark  island.     Lippincott. 

A  troop  of  boy  scouts  go  on  a  summer  camping  trip  and  in  their  sports  and  scouting 
"hikes"  prove  their  skill  in  wood  and  water  craft. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  920  H72 

Historic  boyhoods.     1909.    Jacobs. 

Contents:  Christopher  Columbus,  the  boy  of  Genoa. — Michael  Angelo,  the  boy  of 
the  Medici  gardens. — Walter  Raleigh,  the  boy  of  Devon. — Peter  the  Great,  the  boy  of 
the  Kremlin. — Frederick  the  Great,  the  boy  of  Potsdam. — George  Washington,  the  boy 
of  the  old  Dominion. — Daniel  Boone,  the  boy  of  the  frontier.— John  Paul  Jones,  the 
boy  of  the  Atlantic. — Mozart,  the  boy  of  Salzburg. — Lafayette,  the  boy  of  Versailles. — 
Horatio  Nelson,  the  boy  of  the  Channel  fleet. — Robert  Fulton,  the  boy  of  the  Conestoga. 
— Andrew  Jackson,  the  boy  of  the  Carolinas. — Napoleon  Bonaparte,  the  boy  of  Brienne. 
— Walter  Scott,  the  boy  of  the  Canongate. — J.  F.  Cooper,  the  boy  of  Otsego  hall. — John 
Ericsson,  the  boy  of  the  Gota  canal. — Garibaldi,  the  boy  of  the  Mediterranean. — Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  the  boy  of  the  American  wilderness. — Charles  Dickens,  the  boy  of  the 
London  streets. — Otto  von  Bismarck,  the  boy  of  Gottingen. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  920.7  H72 

Historic  girlhoods.     1910.     Jacobs. 

Contents:  Saint  Catherine. — Joan  of  Arc. — Vittoria-Colonna. — Catherine  de'  Medici. 
— Lady  Jane  Grey. — Mary,  queen  of  Scots. — Pocahontas. — Priscilla  Alden. — Catherine 
the  Great. —  Fanny  Burney. —  Sarah  Siddons. —  Marie  Antoinette.—  Josephine. —  Dolly 
Madison. — Louisa  of  Prussia. — Charlotte  Bronte. — Victoria. — Florence  Nightingale. — 
Jenny  Lind. — Rosa  Bonheur. — L.  M.  Alcott. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  926  H72 

Historic  inventions.  191 1.  Jacobs.  (Historic  series  for  young 
people.) 

Contents:  Gutenberg  and  the  printing  press. — Palissy  and  his  enamel. — Galileo  and 
the  telescope. — Watt  and  the  steam-engine. — Arkwright  and  the  spinning-jenny. — Whit- 
ney and  the  cotton-gin. — Fulton  and  the  steamboat. — Davy  and  the  safety-lamp. — Stephen- 
son and  the  locomotive. — Morse  and  the  telegraph. — McCormick  and  the  reaper.— 
Howe  and  the  sewing-machine. — Bell  and  the  telephone. — Edison  and  the  electric  light. — 
Marconi  and  the  wireless  telegraph. — The  Wrights  and  the  airship. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent,  ed.  j  808.8  H72 

Historic  poems  and  ballads.     1912.     Jacobs. 

Such  stirring  verse  as  "Horatius,"  "Ivry,"  "The  Revenge,"  "Herve  Riel,"  "Hohen- 
linden,"  "Marco  Bozzaris,"  "The  charge  of  the  Light  Brigade."  Each  of  the  60  poems 
is  preceded  by  a  short  account  of  the  legendary  or  historical  event  upon  which  it  is 
based.     Illustrated. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  H724k 

The  knights  of  the  golden  spur.     Century. 

"A  jade  amulet  and  a  verse  from  a  book  on  chivalry  bring  to  Roger  Miltoun,  an 
English  lad,  the  opportunity  to  meet  his  favorite  heroes,  the  knights  of  the  Golden  Spur, 
and  to  win  a  seat  at  their  round  table  by  proving  his  heroism."    Booklist,  1912. 

Relates  in  turn  his  adventures  with  Sir  Lancelot,  Little  John,  Richard  Cceur  de 
Lion,  the  Black  Prince  and  others. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  92  L144I1 

Lafayette,  we  come!  the  story  of  how  a  young  Frenchman  fought 
for  liberty  in  America  and  how  America  now  fights  for  liberty  in 
France.     1918.    Jacobs. 

Holland,  Rupert  Sargent.  j  g2  P395h 

William  Penn.    1915.    Macmillan.    (True  stories  of  great  Americans.) 

Short  biography.  Gives  an  account  of  the  founding  of  Pennsylvania  and  of  events 
in  the  early  history  of  the  colony. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  179 


Holland,  William  Jacob.  qj  595-78  H72 

The  butterfly  book;  a  popular  guide  to  a  knowledge  of  the  butter- 
flies of  North  America.     1898.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  Life-history  and  anatomy  of  butterflies. — Capture,  preparation  and  pres- 
ervation of  specimens. — Classification  of  butterflies. — Books  about  North  American 
butterflies. — Butterflies  of  North  America  north  of  Mexico. — Digressions  and  quotations. 

Besides  185  cuts  in  black  and  white,  there  are  48  colored  plates  containing  1002 
figures  representing  527  species,  in  many  cases  both  the  upper  and  under  side  of  the 
wings.  Thus  fully  Yh  of  the  known  species  in  North  America,  north  of  Mexico,  are 
here  represented  in  their  natural  colors.  Of  these,  152  species  have  never  before  (1898) 
been  figured  in  any  work  and  over  200  never  before  in  colors.  A  wonderfully  beautiful 
book  by  a  Pittsburgher  who  is  recognized  as  an  authority  in  this  field. 

Holland,  William  Jacob.  j  595-78  H72b 

The  butterfly  guide;  a  pocket  manual  for  the  ready  identification  of 
the  commoner  species  found  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  1916. 
Doubleday. 

Contains  295  colored  figures  representing  255   species  and  varieties. 

Holland,  William  Jacob.  qj  595-78  H721T1 

The  moth  book;  a  popular  guide  to  a  knowledge  of  the  moths  of 
North  America.    1903.    Doubleday. 

"Books  about  North  American  moths,"  p. 27-38. 

"48  colored  plates  illustrate  with  beautiful  accuracy  more  than  1500  species,  and  all 
through  the  text  are  illustrated  other  species  to  the  number  of  more  than  250... The 
book  is  by  no  means  confined  to  descriptive  matter  of  the  species  treated.  Statements 
concerning  the  habits  and  the  life  histories  are  scattered  through  the  pages,  and  much 
sound  information  of  a  practical  economic  character  accompanies  the  accounts  of  many 
of  the  injurious  species.  .  .The  index  is  very  full."     Science,  1904. 

Holmes,  Oliver  Wendell.  j  811  H73C 

Complete  poetical  works.     1895.     Houghton. 

Humorous  poems,  such  as  "The  height  of  the  ridiculous,"  "The  Dorchester  giant," 
"The  deacon's  masterpiece;  or,  The  wonderful  'one-hoss  shay,'  "  "The  ballad  of  the 
oysterman"  and  "The  broomstick  train;"  patriotic  poems,  such  as  "Old  Ironsides"  and 
"Grandmother's  story  of  Bunker-Hill  battle."  Also,  "The  chambered  nautilus,"  "Doro- 
thy Q,"  "Robinson  of  Leyden"  and  many  others  both  grave  and  gay. 

"He  edges  with  wisdom  the  blade  of  his  wit; 
Gives  his  neatly-cut  satire  its  delicate  fit; 
Fuses  humor  with  pathos,  a  mixture  so  fine, 
Heads  are  cleared  and  hearts  touched  ;is  by  subtlest  of  wine." 

Larcom. 

Holmes,  Oliver  Wendell.  j  811  H73g2 

Grandmother's    story    [of    Bunker    Hill    battle],    and    other    poems. 

1891.    Houghton. 

As  she  saw  it  from  the  belfry. 

"  'Tis  like  stirring  living  embers  when,  at  eighty  one  remembers 

All  the  achings  and  the  quakings  of  'the  times  that  tried  men's  souls;' 
When  I  talk  of  Whig  and  Tory,  when  I  tell  the  Rebel  Story, 
To  you  the  words  are  ashes,  but  to  me  they're  burning  coals." 
Biographical  sketch  of  Holmes,  p. 5-7. 

Hoist,  Adolf,  and  others.  qj  833  H74 

Der  herbst,  mit  bunten  bildern  von  Gertrud  Caspari,  text  von  Adolf 
Hoist  und  anderen.     (Jahreszeiten  3.) 

Pictures  in  bright,  clear  colors  of  country  scenes  and  children   at  play. 

Holton,  Martha  Adelaide,  &  Kimball,  Eugenia.  j  372  H74 

Games,  seat  work  and  sense  training  exercises.     [905.     Flanagan, 


i8o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Holton,  Martha  Adelaide.  j  372-4  H74 

Holton  primer.     1901.     Rand.     (Lights  to  literature  series.) 

Holton,  Susan.  j  H748I 

Little  stories  about  little  animals  for  little  children.  Children's  Pub. 
Co. 

Contents:  Strutter  Peacock  goes  to  school. — Pat  and  Pete. — Spotty's  rules. — The 
donkey's  puzzle. — The  lonely  little  lamb. — The  gold  fish  that  would  jump. — Fuzzy  Wuz- 
zy's  lesson. — Dame  Doodles  has  an  adventure. — Nibble's  favorite  game. — The  make- 
believe  canary. 

Homer.  j  883  H75i 

Iliad;  done  into  English  prose  by  Andrew  Lang  and  others.  1907. 
Macmillan. 

Tale  of  Troy  divine. 

"The  form  of  great  Achilles,  high  and  clear, 
Stands  forth  in  arms,  wielding  the  Pelian  spear, 
The  sanguine  tides  of  that  immortal  fray, 
Swept  on  by  gods,  around  him  surge  and  sway." 

Ernest  Myers. 

The  same;  tr.  into  English  blank  verse  by  W.  C.  Bryant.     2v.  in  1. 

1898.  Houghton > j  883  H75ib 

"Despite  some  little  embroidery  of  Homer's  plainest  passages,  this  rendering  is  a 
very  faithful  one."     W .  C.  Lawton. 

Homer.     Iliad.     For  adaptation  sec 

Brooks,  Edward.     Story  of  the  Iliad j  883  H75ibr 

Church,  A.  J.    Iliad  for  boys  and  girls j  883  H75icr 

Church,  A.  J.  ed.     Stories  from  Homer j  883  H75S 

Church,  A.  J.    Story  of  the  Iliad j  883  H75ich 

Clarke,  Michael.    Story  of  Troy j  883  H75K: 

Colum,  Padraic.     Adventures  of  Odysseus  and  the  tale  of 

Troy j  883  H75C 

Havell,  H.  L.    Stories  from  the  Iliad j  883  H75iha 

Homer.  j  883  H750DU 

Odyssey;  done  into  English  prose  by  S.  H.  Butcher  and  Andrew 
Lang.    1906.    Macmillan. 

"Tell  me,  Muse,  of  that  man,  so  ready  at  need,  who  wandered  far  and  wide,  after 
he  had  sacked  the  sacred  citadel  of  Troy,  and  many  were  the  men  whose  towns  he  saw 
and  whose  mind  he  learnt,  yea,  and  many  the  woes  he  suffered  in  his  heart  upon  the 
deep,  striving  to  win  his  own  life  and  the  return  of  his  company." 

The  same;  tr.  by  G.  H.  Palmer.     1891.     Houghton j  883  H750P 

Rhythmic  prose  translation. 

The  same;  tr.  into  English  blank  verse  by  W.  C.   Bryant.     2v.  in   t. 

1899.  Houghton j  883  H75oby 

"With  a  part  of  Homer's  genius — his  grandeur — Bryant  was  in  fit  and  sympathetic 
accord,  and  his  plainly  straightforward  and  steadily  dignified  verse  interprets  many 
parts  of  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey  in  a  way  not  inadequate."     C.  F.  Richardson. 

The  same;  tr.  by  C.  A.  Pease,  illustrated  by  F.  C.  Pape. 
[1917?]     Stokes j  883  H750PS 

Title  reads  "Toils  &  travels  of  Odysseus." 

The  first  four  books  of  the  original,  also  book  24,  part  of  the  account  of  the  slay- 
ing of  the  suitors  and  some  other  passages  have  been  omitted. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Homer.     Odyssey.     For  adaptation  sec 

Brooks,  Edward.     Story  of  the  Odyssey j  883  H75obr 

Burt,  M.  E.  &  Ragozin,  Mme  Z.  A.  Odysseus,  the  hero  of 

Ithaca j  883  H75ob 

Church,  A.  J.    Odyssey  for  boys  and  girls j  883  H750CU 

Church,  A.  J.  ed.    Stories  from  Homer j  883  H75S 

Church,  A.  J.     Story  of  the  Odyssey j  883  H750CI1 

Colum,  Padraic.     Adventures  of  Odysseus  and  the  tale  of 

Troy j  883  H75C 

Havell,  H.  L.    Stories  from  the  Odyssey j  883  H750I1 

Lamb,  Charles.    Adventures  of  Ulysses j  883  H750I4 

Lang,  Jean.    Stories  from  the  Odyssey j  883  H75ola 

Marvin,  F.  S.  and  others.    Adventures  of  Odysseus.  .  .  .j  883  H7501H 
Perry,  W.  C.     Boy's  Odyssey j  883  H75ope 

Hood,  Thomas.  j  821  H76 

Faithless  Nelly  Gray;  a  pathetic  ballad;  illuminated  and  explained 
by  numerous  drawings  by  Robert  Seaver.     1907.    Houghton. 

Humorous  poem  beginning 

"Ben  Battle  was  a  soldier  bold, 
And  used  to  war's  alarms; 
But   a   cannon-ball    took    off    his    legs, 
So  he  laid  down  his  arms!" 

Hook,  Stella  Louise.  j  595-7  H77 

Little  people  and  their  homes  in  meadows,  woods  and  waters.     1894. 

Scribner. 

Contents:     The   flower  fairies. — The  musical  elves. — Little  people   in   armor. — The 

water-sprites. — The  troublesome  midgets. — The  wisest  of  the  little  people. — The  fairies' 

pets  and  their  relations. — The  brownies. 

Hooker,  Worthington.  j  581  H77C 

Child's  book  of  nature.    3  pts.  in  iv.     1886.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:     Plants. — Animals. — Air,  water,  heat,  light,  &c. 

Hope,  Ascott  R.  pseud.    See  Moncrieff,  Ascott  Robert  Hope. 

Hopkins,  George  M.  j  530-7  H78e 

Experimental  science;  elementary  practical  and  experimental  phys- 
ics.   Ed. 25,  rev.  &  enl.    2v.     1906.    Munn. 

A  ready  guide  to  the  general  knowledge  of  physics  by  means  of  experiment.  Most 
of  the  apparatus  may  be  made  and  used  by  any  one  having  ordinary  skill  with  tools.  A 
fascinating  book. 

Hopkins,  George  M.  j  680  H78 

Home  mechanics  for  amateurs.  1903.  Munn.  (Scientific  American 
series.) 

Contents:  Wood-working. — How  to  make  household  ornaments. — Metal-working. — 
Model  engines  and  boilers. — Meteorology. — Telescopes   and   microscopes. — Electricity. 

Describes  simple  mechanical  tools  and  apparatus,  and  their  use  in  making  various 
useful  and  ornamental  articles.     Practical  and  very  simple. 

Hopkins,  Nevil  Monroe.  j  699.1  H78 

Model  engines  and  small  boats;  new  methods  of  engine  and  boiler 
making,  with  a  chapter  on  elementary  ship  design  and  construction. 
1898.    Van  Nostrand. 

Directions  for  making  small  steam  cylinders  without  patterns  ;ind  castings,  and  shell 
and  water-tube  boilers  without  the  use  of  special  tools. 


1 82  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Hopkins,  William  John.  j  H786d 

The  doers.    Houghton. 

Little  David  makes  friends  with  the  men  who  are  building  a  house  next  door  and 
is  allowed  to  help  in  the  work.  Written  simply,  in  the  form  of  separate  stories  and 
with  the  repetitions  and  details  liked  by  small  children. 

Hopkins,  William  John.  j  97°.i  H78 

The  Indian  book.     1911.    Houghton. 

"Once  upon  a  time,  far  up  on  the  Missouri  River,  there  was  a  village  where  the 
Mandan  tribe  of  Indians  lived."  Here  are  23  short  stories  for  little  children  telling 
about  their  lodges  and  wigwam  fires,  the  buffalo  dance  and  arrow  game  and  other  cus- 
toms. Pictures  from  drawings  made  by  George  Catlin,  who  lived  a  number  of  years 
among  the  Indians. 

Hopkins,  William  John.  j  H786S 

The  sandman;  his  farm  stories.     Page. 

Life  of  a  little  boy  on  a  farm  75  years  ago.  Stories  are  simply  told  with  the  repeti- 
tions and  detail  that  small  children  enjoy.     Large  print  and  many  pictures. 

Hopkins,  William  John.  j  H786sh 

The  sandman;  his  ship  stories.     Page. 

Little  stories  for  little  children  about  the  building,  launching  and  sailing  of  the 
good  brig  Industry. 

Hopkins,  William  John.  j  H786sa 

The  sandman;  more  farm  stories.     Page. 

More  stories  of  the  old  farm  and  of  little  John  and  little  Charles.  Some  of  them 
are,  The  calf  story. — The  hatchet  story. — The  fishing  story. — The  skating  story. — The 
sled  story. — The  brush-pile  story. — The  fox  story.  —The  little  garden  story. — The  pigeon 
story. 

Horn,  W.  O.  von,  pseud.     See  Oertel,  Philipp  Friedrich  Wilhelm. 

Hornaday,  William  Temple.  qj  591.97  H79 

American  natural  history;  a  foundation  of  useful  knowledge  of  the 
higher  animals  of  North  America.     1904.     Scribner. 

Contents:      Mammals. — Birds. — Reptiles. — Amphibians. — Fishes. 

Popular,  well  illustrated  manual,  by  the  director  (1919)  of  the  New  York  Zoologi- 
cal park.     Includes  much  information  concerning  animals  not  found  in  America. 

Hornaday,  William  Temple.  j  915.4  H79 

Two  years  in  the  jungle.     1906.    Scribner. 

Experiences  of  a  hunter  and  naturalist  in  India,  Ceylon,  the  Malay  peninsula  and 
Borneo.  The  trip  was  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  specimens  for  the  United  States 
National  Museum. 

Home,  Olive  Browne,  &  Scobey,  K.  L.  j  927.5  H79 

Stories  of  great  artists.     1903.     Amer.  Book  Co.     (Eclectic  school 

readings.) 

Contents:     Raphael. — Michael  Angelo. — Rembrandt  van  Ryn. — Sir  Joshua  Reynolds. 

— Jean    Baptiste    Camille    Corot. — Sir    Edwin    Landseer. — Jean    Francois    Millet. — Rosa 

Bonheur. 

About  some  of  the  world's  great  pictures  and  the  artists  who  painted  them. 

Hornibrook,  Isabel.  j  H8ns 

A  scout  of  to-day.    Houghton. 

Nixon  Warren  proves  his  scoutcraft  to  three  Massachusetts  village  boys  when  they 
are  lost  in  the  woods.  With  four  others  they  form  the  Owl  patrol,  and  the  story  tells 
of  their  experiences  in  passing  their  tests,  and  how  four  of  them  won  the  scout  medal 
for  life-saving. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  183 

Horton,  Edith.  j  919.8  H81 

Frozen  North;  an  account  of  Arctic  exploration,  for  use  in  schools. 
1904.    Heath. 

Includes  the  polar  expeditions  of  Franklin,  Kane,  Nordenskiold,  De  Long,  Greely, 
Schwatka,  Nansen,  Peary  and  Andree. 

Hosmer,  James  Kendall.  j  296  H82 

The  Jews.     1901.     Putnam.     (Story  of  the  nations.) 

History  of  the  Jews  from  ancient  times  to  the  present.  Chapters  on  the  mediaeval 
life  of  the  Jews  and  about  the  illustrious  members  of  the  race,  Spinoza,  Heine,  the  Men- 
delssohns,  Rothschilds,  Sir  Moses  Montefiore  and  others. 

Hotchkiss,  Caroline  Woodbridge.  j  9T7-3  H82 

Representative  cities  of  the  United  States;  a  geographical  and  in- 
dustrial reader.     1913.    Houghton. 

Contents:  San  Francisco. — Portland,  the  rose  city. — Seattle. — Denver,  the  city  in 
the  wilderness. — New  Orleans,  the  crescent  city. — Duluth,  the  zenith  city  of  the  unsalted 
seas. — Minneapolis  and  St.  Paul,  the  twin  cities. — Chicago,  our  inland  metropolis. — 
Pittsburgh,  the  world's  workshop. — Gary. — Savannah,  the  forest  city. — Boston. — New 
York. 

Hough,  Emerson.  j  917.8  H83 

Story  of  the  cowboy.     1897.    Appleton.     (Story  of  the  West  series.) 

"The  reader  of  this  most  interesting  book  is  brought  into  vivid  touch  with  daily  life 
on  the  plains, — participates  in  'round-ups,'  chases  the  predatory  'rustler,'  and  anath- 
ematizes 'strays'  and  'Mavericks.'  "     Dial,  1897. 

Hough,  Emerson.  j  H834y 

Young  Alaskans.     Harper. 

Adventures  of  three  boys  lost  on  the  Alaskan  coast;  of  their  hunting,  fishing  and 
trapping,  and  their  experiences  with  the  Aleuts  of  Kadiak  island. 

Houghton,  Mrs  Louise  (Seymour).  j  398  H83 

The    Russian    grandmother's    wonder    tales;    illustrated    by    \V.  T. 

Benda.     1906.     Scribner. 

Beast  tales,  and  stories  of  dragons  and  vilas,  told  to  a  little  peasant  boy  by  his  two 
grandmothers  who  live  in  different  communes.  The  narrative  connecting  the  stories 
gives  glimpses  of  village  life  in  southern   Russia.  •  «        Cf?hn 

The  house  that  Jack  built;  pictured  by  Randolph  Caldecott.     Warne. 

Houston,  Edwin  James.  j  H838b 

The  boy  electrician;  or,  The  secret  society  of  the  Jolly  Philosophers. 

Lippincott. 

The  Jolly  Philosophers  take  photographs  of  lightning  flashes,  have  a  private  tele- 
graph line  and  perform  many  experiments  in  electricity  and  magnetism. 

Houston,  Edwin  James.  j  551-21  H83 

Wonder  book  of  volcanoes  and  earthquakes.     [1907.]     Stokes. 

Partial  contents:  The  volcanic  island  of  Iceland. — Vesuvius. — The  catastrophe  of 
Martinique  and  the  volcanic  islands  of  the  Lesser  Antilles. — Submarine  volcanoes. — 
Some  forms  of  lava. — Mud  volcanoes  and  hot  springs. — The  volcanoes  of  the  moon. — 
The  great  Lisbon  earthquake  of  1755. — The  San  Francisco  earthquake  of  1906. — Instru- 
ments for  recording  and  measuring  earthquake  shocks. — Seaquakes. — The  Kimberly 
diamond  fields  and  their  volcanic  origin. — The  fabled  continent  of  Atlantis. 

j  369.3  H86 
How  girls  can  help  their  country;  adapted  from  Agnes  Baden-Powell 
and  Sir  Robert  Baden-Powell's  handbook,  1917.  1917.  Knickerbocker 
Press.     (Handbook  for  girl  scouts.) 

"Reading  list,"  p. 142-152. 

Directions  for  organizing  and  carrying  on  girl  SCOUt  clubs.  Includes  chapters  on 
camping,  home  life,  hospital  «  01 1<  and  patriotism. 


1 84  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

j  680  H84 

How  to  make  and  how  to  mend,  by  an  amateur  mechanic.     1900.     Mac- 
millan. 

Concise  instruction  for  the  manufacture  of  all  sorts  of  things  necessary  in  the 
house  and  garden,  as  well  as  hints  about  restoring,  cleaning  and  repairing  almost  every 
article  of  common  household  use. 

j  796.31   H84 

How  to  play  baseball,  by  the  greatest  baseball  players.     1913.     Crowell. 

Contents:  The  catcher,  by  O.  Stanage. — The  pitcher,  by  J.  W.  Coombs. — The  batter, 
by  F.  M.  Schulte. — The  first  baseman,  by  F.  L.  Chance. — The  second  baseman,  by  E. 
Collins. — The  third  baseman,  by  H.  Lord. — The  shortstop,  by  O.  Bush. — The  outfield, 
by  T.  Speaker. — The  base-runner,  by  T.  Cobb. — The  umpire,  by  "Billy"  Evans. 

Howard,  Blanche  Willis,  afterward  Mrs  Teuffel.  j  H84411 

No  heroes.    Houghton. 

Story  of  a  boy's  unconscious  but  genuine  heroism. 

Howard,  Leland  Ossian.  qj  595.7  H84i 

Insect  book;  a  popular  account  of  the  bees,  wasps,  ants,  grasshop- 
pers, flies  and  other  North  American  insects,  exclusive  of  the  butter- 
flies, moths  and  beetles.     1901.    Doubleday. 

Bibliography,  p.405-416. 
Many  pictures. 

Howard,  Gen.  Oliver  Otis.  j  970.2  H84 

Famous  Indian  chiefs  I  have  known.  1908.  Century. 
Contents:  Osceola. — Billy  Bowlegs  and  the  Everglades  of  Florida. — Pasqual. — An- 
tonio and  Antonito. — Santos  and  Eskiminzeen,  the  stammerer. — Pedro,  the  imitator, 
Clear-eyed  Eskeltesela  and  One-eyed  Miguel;  a  visit  of  White  mountain  chiefs  to 
Washington. — Cochise,  the  Chiricahua  Apache  chief. — Manuelito,  a  Navajo  war  chief. — 
Captain  Jack,  chief  of  the  Modoc  Indians. — Alaska  Indian  chiefs:  Fernandeste,  Sitka 
Jack  and  Anahootz. — The  great  war  chief  Joseph  of  the  Nez  Perces  and  his  lieutenants, 
White  Bird  and  Looking-glass. — Moses,  a  great  war  chief  who  knew  when  not  to  fight. — 
Winnemucca,  chief  of  the  Piutes. — Toc-me-to-ne,  an  Indian  princess. — Mattie,  the  daugh- 
ter of  Chief  Shenkah. — Chief  Egan  of  the  Malheurs. — Lot,  a  Spokane  chief. — Red  Cloud. 
— Sitting  Bull,  the  great  Dakota  leader. — Washakie,  a  Shoshone  chief,  the  friend  of  the 
white  man. — Homili,  chief  of  the  Walla  Wallas. — Cut-mouth  John. — Geronimo,  the  last 
Apache  chief  on  the  war-path. 

Howden,  J.  R.  j  656.8  H84 

Boys'  book  of  steamships.     [1908.]     Stokes. 

Short  history  of  ship-building  from  earliest  times,  with  interesting  descriptions  of 
steamship  development  up  to  the  Lusitania  and  Mauretania.  Many  illustrations  from 
photographs. 

Howells,  William  Dean.  j  H857b 

A  boy's  town.    Harper. 

A  humorous  tale  of  a  band  of  boys. 

Howells,  William  Dean.  j  H857CI1 

Christmas  every  day,  and  other  stories.     Harper. 

Other  stories:  Turkeys  turning  the  tables. — The  pony  engine  and  the  Pacific  ex- 
press.— The  pumpkin-glory. — Butterflyflutterby  and  Flutterbybutterfly. 

Howells,  William  Dean.  j  H857f 

Flight  of  Pony  Baker;  a  boy's  town  story.    Harper. 
How  Pony  Baker  almost  ran  away  from  home  and  why  he  gave  it  up. 

Howells,  William  Dean.  j  977.1  H85 

Stories  of  Ohio.    1897.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Series  of  true  stories  covering  the  history  of  Ohio  from  the  mound-builders  to  the 
present  day,  but  dealing  for  the  most  part  with  border  warfare  and  captivity  among  the 
Ohio  Indians. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  185 

Hoxie,  Charles  De  Forest.  j  353  H86 

How  the  people  rule;  civics  for  boys  and  girls.  1903.  Silver. 
Contents:  Why  we  have  laws. — How  laws  are  made  and  enforced. — Voters  and 
citizens. — Taxes. — Government  in  the  town. — Government  in  the  village. — City  govern- 
ment; some  things  it  does  for  the  people. — City  government;  how  it  is  carried  on. — State 
government;  how  it  came  about,  what  it  does  for  the  people. — Government  in  the  state; 
how  it  is  carried  on;  the  county. — Government  in  the  United  States;  how  it  came  about, 
what  it  does  for  the  people. — Government  in  the  United  States;  how  it  is  carried  on. — 
Some  rights  and  duties. — "Going  to  law." — Parties  and  elections.— Some  questions  divid- 
ing the  voters. 

Hubbard,  Thomas  O'Brien,  &  Turner,  C.  C.  j  533652  H87 

Boys'  book  of  aeroplanes.     [i9T3-]     Stokes. 

Contains  also  a  chapter  "Model  aeroplanes,"  by  E.  W.  Twining. 

Begins  with  the  principles  of  flight.  Then  follow  chapters  on  building  the  aero- 
plane and  learning  to  fly,  the  aeroplane  in  war,  the  early  history  of  flight,  the  Wrights 
and  modern   developments.      Illustrations   from   photographs. 

Hudson,  William  Henry.  j  H8881 

A  little  boy  lost;  illustrated  by  A.  D.  M'Cormick.     Knopf. 

Lured  from  his  home  by  the  vision  of  "the  false  water,"  the  little  boy  wanders 
far  in  the  wilderness  meeting  many  strange  people.  The  beautiful  lady  of  the  moun- 
tain becomes  his  mother  and  the  little  men  who  live  under  the  earth  make  clothes  for 
him;  he  sees  the  wonders  of  the  hills  and  plays  with  a  leopard  and  other  wild  beasts. 
The  story  is  full  of  fairy  imaginings  and  of  the  quality  which  the  author  says  he  liked 
best  as  a  child,  "the  little  thrills  that  nature  itself  gave  me,  which  half  frightened  and 
fascinated  at  the  same  time,  the  wonder  and  mystery  of  it  all." 

Hughes,  Rupert.  j  H897I 

The  Lakerim  Athletic  Club.    Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 25,  Dec.  1897-Oct.  1898. 

The  club's  progress  in  sports  for  one  year,  resulting  in  many  victories,  a  few  de- 
feats and  a  new  club-house. 

Hughes,  Thomas.  j  H8g8to 

Tom  Brown's  school  days.     Cranford  ed.     Macmillan. 

"He  is  a  plucky  youngster,  and  will  make  a  player,"  said  Old  Brooke  the  first  day 
of  the  School-house  match,  and  a  plucky  youngster  Tom  proved  to  be  during  his  life  as 
a  school  boy  at  Rugby  under  the  famous  master,  Dr  Arnold.  Pictures  in  black  and  white 
by  E.  J.  Sullivan. 

The  same.     Harper j  H8g8to 

Contains  map  showing  plan  of  the  school  and  bounds,  and  full-page  illustrations  by 
Louis  Khead. 

Hull,  Eleanor.  j  942.01  H91 

The  Northmen  in  Britain,  with  illustrations  by  M.  M.  Williams. 
1913.     Crowell. 

Account  of  early  viking  raids  and  of  the  Danish  conquest  of  England,  told  largely 
from  the  sagas  of  the  Norse  kings.  Ragnar  Lodbrog,  Harald  Fairhair,  Murtough  of  the 
Leather  Cloaks,  Olaf  the  Peacock,  Sweyn  Forkbeard,  Canute  the  Great  and  King  Magnus 
Barelegs  are  among  the  Northmen  whose  adventures  are  related. 

Hulme,  Frederick  Edward.  j  929-9  H91 

Flags  of  the  world.     [1897.]     Warne. 

The  history,  blazonry,  and  associations,  from  the  banner  of  the  crusader  to  the 
burgee  of  the  yachtsman;  flags  national,  colonial,  personal;  the  ensigns  of  mighty  em- 
pires; tin    symbols  of  lost  causes.     Colored  plates. 

Hulst,  Mrs  Cornelia  Steketee.  j  970.3  H91 

Indian  sketches;  Pere  Marquette  and  the  last  of  the   Pottawatomie 

chiefs.     1912.     Longmans. 

Contents:    The  mission  of  Pere  Marquette. — The  last  of  the  Pottawatomie  chiefs. — 

Chief  Simon  Pokagon. 

Includes  two  songs  written  by  Chief  Pokagon:     "Queen  "f  the  woods"  and  "1! 

eye's  lullaby."     Illustrated. 


1 86  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Humphrey,  Mrs  Frances  A.  j  974  H92 

How  New  England  was  made.     1890.    Lothrop. 

From  the  time  of  the  first  settlements  to  the  Declaration  of  independence.  Chapters 
on  The  Pequot  war. — King  Philip's  war. — The  early  schools  of  New  England. — The 
French  and  Indian  wars. — The  great  Boston  tea-party. — Paul  Revere's  ride. 

Humphreys,  Mary  Gay,  ed.  j  922  H92 

Missionary  explorers  among  the  American  Indians.  1913.  Scrib- 
ner. 

Contents:  John  Eliot,  apostle  to  the  Indians. — Samson  Occum,  Mohegan. — David 
Brainerd,  missionary  to  the  forests. — Marcus  Whitman,  pathfinder  and  patriot. — Stephen 
Riggs,   forty  years  with  the   Sioux. — J.  L.    Dyer,   snow-shoe  itinerant. 

Pictures  clearly  their  pioneer  life  of  adventure  and  hardship,  and  presents  many 
instances  of  courage  and  devotion — Father  Dyer  carrying  the  mails  over  the  snow- 
covered  passes  of  the  Rockies,  Marcus  Whitman  leading  his  companions  through  the 
perils  of  the  desert,  and  others.  Author  has  made  use  so  far  as  possible  of  original  let- 
ters and  diaries. 

Hunt,  Clara  Whitehill.  j  Hg37a 

About  Harriet,  with  illustrations  by  M.  W.  Enright.    Houghton. 

Harriet  is  a  little  four-year-old  girl  who  lives  in  a  large  city.  There  are  seven 
stories  about  her,  one  for  each  day  of  the  week,  telling  about  her  games  and  plays,  and 
a  picnic  at  the  seashore;  also  how  she  helps  in  the  house,  and  goes  marketing  and  shop- 
ping with  her  mother. 

Hunt,  Clara  Whitehill.  j  H937I 

The  little  house  in  the  woods.    Houghton. 

Dorothy's  wish  came  true  and  she  went  to  live  for  the  summer  in  a  little  house  in 
the  woods.     It  was  on  the  Maine  coast  and  the  story  tells  of  the  good  times  she  had  there. 

Hunt,  Helen.    See  Jackson,  Mrs  Helen  Hunt. 

Hunt,  Violet  Brooke-.  j  920  H94 

Prisoners  of  the  Tower  of  London;  an  account  of  some  who  at 
divers  times  lay  captive  within  its  walls.     1901.     Dent. 

Partial  contents:  The  builders  of  the  Tower. — Flambard,  the  first  prisoner. — Two 
royal  prisoners  of  Wales. — Scottish  prisoners. — The  adventures  of  Perkin  Warbeck. — 
Lady  Jane  Grey. —  The  martyrs  of  Queen  Mary. —  Sir  Walter  Raleigh. —  The  seven 
bishops. — The  last  prisoners. — The  treasures  of  the  Tower. — The  little  princes  in  the 
Tower. 

Huntington,  Ellsworth.  j  915  H94 

Asia;  a  geography  reader.     1912.     Rand. 

Describes  the  life  of  the  inhabitants  of  Asia  and  shows  how  the  climate,  topography 
and  other  characteristics  of  that  great  continent  have  influenced  the  distribution  of  man 
and  have  caused  the  people  in  different  parts  to  acquire  distinct  habits  and  customs. 

Huntington,  H.  S.    See  Smith,  Herbert  Huntington. 

Husted,  Mary  Hall.  j  970.1  H96 

Stories  of  Indian  children.     1910.     Public  School  Pub.  Co. 

For  the  younger  children.  Includes  a  few  poems,  also  stories  retold  from  Long- 
fellow's "Hiawatha." 

Hutchinson,  Winifred  Margaret  Lambert.  j  292  H97S 

Sunset  of  the  heroes;  last  adventures  of  the  takers  of  Troy,  illus- 
trated by  Herbert  Cole.     [1911.]     Dent. 

The  prologue  reviews  the  events  of  the  Trojan  war  to  the  death  of  Hector.  The 
following  chapters  tell  of  the  coming  of  the  Amazons,  the  death  of  Achilles  and  the 
contest  for  his  arms,  the  story  of  Philoctetes  the  bowman,  the  taking  of  Troy,  the  ad- 
ventures of  Teucer,  the  marvel  that  befell  in  Egypt  and  how  King  Agamemnon  came 
home. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  187 

Hutchinson,  Woods.  j  613  H97 

The  child's  day.  1912.  Houghton.  (Woods  Hutchinson  health 
series.) 

Following  the  boy  or  girl  through  the  usual  activities  of  a  day,  explains  the  need  of 
fresh  air,  food  and  sleep,  and  tells  about  the  work  and  play  of  children,  what  risks  to 
avoid  and  how  to  keep  well  and  grow  strong. 

Hutton,  Samuel  King.  j  917.19  H97 

By  Eskimo  dog-sled  and  kayak;  a  description  of  a  missionary's  ex- 
periences &  adventures  in  Labrador.  1919.  Seeley.  (Missionary  li- 
brary for  boys  &  girls.) 

Tells  not  only  of  adventurous  journeys  by  boat  and  sledge  but  also  "of  the  Eskimos 
as  they  are  in  their  daily  life,  and  something  of  the  land  and  the  homes  in  which  they 
dwell."     Chapter  75. 

Hyde,  Mary  Kendall.  j  361  H99 

Girls'  book  of  the  Red  Cross.     1919.     Crowell. 

Interesting  account  of  the  origin  of  the  Red  Cross  Society,  its  service  in  times  of 
national  disaster  and  in  the  European  war,  including  ambulance,  hospital  and  canteen 
work,  the  care  of  refugees  and  orphans,  camp  and  home  service.  Ends  with  a  chapter 
on  the  future  of  the  Red  Cross. 

Ide,  Mrs  Frances  Otis  (Ogden).    Sec  Ogden,  Ruth,  pseud. 

Imlach,  Gladys  M.  j  92  C727i 

Story  of  Columbus;  pictures  by  Stewart  Orr.  [1906.]  Jack.  (Chil- 
dren's heroes  series.) 

"You  here  will  read 
Of  great  Columbus'  daring  deed, 
And  find  how  wise  he  was  and  bold 
Who  dreamt  of  fair,  strange  lands  of  gold, 
Sought  the  far  borders  of  the  main, 
And  gave  new  worlds  to  mighty  Spain." 
Colored  pictures. 

Indian  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j  I242 

Contents:  Onatoga's  sacrifice. — Waukewa's  eagle. — A  Fourth  of  July  among  the 
Indians. — A  boy's  visit  to  Chief  Joseph. — Little  Moccasin's  ride  on  the  thunder-horse. — 
The  little  first  man  and  the  little  first  woman. — Fun  among  the  red  boys. — The  children 
of  Zuni. — The  Indian  girl  and  her  messenger-bird. — How  the  stone-age  children  played. 
— Games  and  sports  of  the  Indian  boy. — An  old-time  Thanksgiving. — Some  Indian  dolls. 
— The  walking  purchase. — The  first  Americans. 

Ingelow,  Jean.  j  1244m 

Mopsa  the  fairy.     Lippincott. 

A  little  boy  finds  a  nest  of  fairies  and  fills  his  pockets  with  them,  and  then  on  the 
back  of  an  albatross  flies  away  to  fairyland. 

Colored  pictures  of  the  flamingo  guard,  Jack  and  the  albatross,  Mopsa  and  the  other 
fairies. 

Ingelow,  Jean.  j  l244t 

Three  fairy  tales;  ed.  by  C.  F.  Dole.    Heath. 

Contents:  The  ouphe  of  the  wood. — The  fairy  who  judged  her  neighbors. — The 
prince's  dream. 

Ingersoll,  Ernest.  j  551.46  124b 

Book  of  the  ocean.     1898.     Century. 

Contents:     The  ocean   and   its   origin. — Waves,   tides   and    currents. — The   building 
and   rigging  of   ships. — Early   voyages  and    explorations,    -Secrets   won   from    the 
North. — War-ships  and  naval  battles. — The  merchants  of  the  sea. — Robbers  of  the  seas. 
— Yachting  and  pleasure-boating.  —  Dangers   of   the  deep.     -Fishing  and  other   ma 
dustries. — The  plants  of  the  sea  and  their  uses. — Animal  life  in  the  sea. 


188  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Ingersoll,  Ernest.  j  12442! 

The  ice  queen.     Harper. 

Adventures  of  three  boys  and  a  girl  who  attempt  to  skate  across  Lake  Erie  and  who 
go  adrift  on  an  ice-floe. 

Ingersoll,  Ernest.  j  596  I24 

Wild  neighbors.    1897.    Macmillan. 

Contents:  Our  gray  squirrels. — The  father  of  game,  the  puma. — The  service  of 
tails. — The  hound  of  the  plains,  the  coyote. — The  badger  and  his  kin. — Animal  training 
and  animal  intelligence. — A  woodland  codger,  the  porcupine. — The  skunk  calmly  con- 
sidered.— A  natural  New  Englander,  the  woodchuck. — A  little  brother  of  the  bear,  the 
raccoon. 

Ingpen,  Roger,  ed.  j  821.08  I24 

One  thousand  poems  for  children;  a  choice  of  the  best  verse,  old 
and  new.     1903.    Jacobs. 

Poems  of  every  kind,  including  rhymes  for  the  little  ones,  cradle  songs,  fairy  poems, 
fables  and  riddles,  humorous  verses  for  older  children,  hymns,  ballads  and  poems  for 
girls. 

Inman,  Henry.  j  l246r 

The  ranche  on  the  Oxhide;  a  story  of  boys'  and  girls'  life  on  the 
frontier.    Macmillan. 

"Buffalo  Bill"  and  Gen.  Custer  are  characters  in  this  story  of  frontier  life  in 
Kansas  when  wolves,  panthers,  buffaloes  and  Indians  were  familiar  sights  to  the  ranch- 
man. 

Inman,  Herbert  Escott.  j  l2462d 

The  Did  of  Didn't-think;  a  fairy  story  for  boys  and  girls.     Warne. 

What  happened  to  Con  in  Didn't-think  land  where,  protected  by  the  fairy  Sunbeam, 
he  has  adventures  with  Old  Silly,  the  giant,  Sulky-sulks,  the  wizard,  the  pigmy  gnomes 
and  the  Didn't  of  Forgetful-land  where  Con  finds  the  royal  Did. 

Innes,  Luna  May.  j  914.89  I24 

Our  little  Danish  cousin.     1912.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 
About  Copenhagen,  where  the  little  Danish  cousin  lives,  old  castles  and  palaces,  the 

legend  of  the  sacred  Dannebrog,  a  Danish  peasant  wedding,  Christmas  and  other  customs. 

Irving,  Washington.  j  914.6  I28 

The  Alhambra.     1906.     Cranford  ed.     Macmillan. 

Legends,  traditions  and  fairy  tales  which  time  has  woven  around  the  ruins  of  the 
beautiful  Moorish  palace  of  the  Alhambra.  Among  them  are,  The  Arabian  astrologer. — 
The  three  beautiful  princesses. — The  Rose  of  the  Alhambra. — The  Moor's  legacy. 

Illustrations  by  Joseph  Pennell. 

Irving,  Washington.  j  817  l28d 

Dolph  Heyliger;  a  story  from  Bracebridge  hall;  ed.  by  G.  H.  Browne. 
1901.    Heath. 

Tale  of  a  haunted  house  and  a  hidden  treasure. 

Irving,  Washington.  j  398.2  I28I 

Legends  of  the  Alhambra,  with  illustrations  &  decorations  by  George 
Hood  and  an  introduction  by  H.  W.  Mabie.     1913.     Lippincott. 

Contents:  Introduction. — The  Arabian  astrologer. — Prince  Ahmed  al  Kamel;  or, 
The  pilgrim  of  love. — The  Moor's  legacy. — The  three  beautiful  princesses. — The  Rose  of 
the  Alhambra. — The  two  discreet  statues. — Don  Munio  Sancho  de  Hinojosa. — The  en- 
chanted soldier. 

Irving,  Washington.  j  817  I280 

Old  Christmas.     1894.     Cranford  ed.     Macmillan. 

Contents:  Christmas. —  The  stage  coach. —  Christmas  eve. —  Christmas  day. —  The 
Christmas  dinner. 

From  the  "Sketch  book."     Many  pictures  by  Randolph  Caldecott. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  189 

Irving,  Washington.  qj  817  I28r2 

Rip  Van  Winkle,  with  drawings  by  Arthur  Rackham.  1910.  Heinc- 
mann. 

Fifty  full-page  colored  plates. 

Tlie  same;  illustrated  by  Charles  Robinson.    Jack j  817  I28r4 

Four  plates  in  color  and  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

The  same,  and  The  legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow.  1893.  Cranford  ed. 
Macmillan j  817  I28r3 

Two  legends  of  the  Hudson  valley;  the  one,  of  the  man  who  slept  for  20  years;  the 
other,  of  the  specter  which  appeared  to  the  schoolmaster,  Ichabod  Crane.  Illustrated 
by  George  Boughton. 

"The  silver  Hudson  stretches  out  before  you  as  you  read;  the  quaint  red  roofs  and 
queer  gables  of  the  old  Dutch  cottages  stand  out  against  the  mist  upon  the  mountains." 
Joseph  Jefferson. 

Irving,  Washington.  j  817  l28sk 

Sketch-book  of  Geoffrey  Crayon,  gent.     [1880.]     Putnam. 

Essays  and  humorous  tales  including  Rip  Van  Winkle. — The  spectre  bridegroom. — 
Westminster  abbey. — Christmas. — The  stage  coach. — Stratford-on-Avon. — Traits  of  In- 
dian character. — Philip  of  Pokanoket. — The  legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow. 

Irving,  Washington.  j  398-2  I28 

Tales  from  the  Alhambra;  adapted  by  Josephine  Brower,  with  illus- 
trations in  colour  by  C.  E.  Brock.    1910.    Houghton. 

Contents:  Legend  of  the  Arabian  astrologer. — Legend  of  Prince  Ahmed  al  Kamel. 
— Legend  of  the  Moor's  legacy. — Legend  of  the  three  beautiful  princesses. — Legend  of 
the  Rose  of  the  Alhambra. — Legend  of  the  two  discreet  statues. 

Irving,  Washington.  j  817  l28t 

Tales  from  Washington  Irving's  Traveller,  with  illustrations  by 
George  Hood.     1913.    Lippincott. 

Contents:  Strange  stories  by  a  nervous  gentleman:  The  great  unknown. — The 
hunting-dinner. — The  adventure  of  my  uncle. — The  bold  dragoon;  or,  The  adventure  of 
my  grandfather. — Adventure  of  the  mysterious  picture. — Adventure  of  the  mysterious 
stranger. — The  story  of  the  young  Italian. — The  Italian  banditti:  The  painter's  adven- 
ture.— The  story  of  the  bandit  chieftain. — The  story  of  the  young  robber. — The  money- 
diggers:  The  devil  and  Tom  Walker.— Wolfert  Webber;  or,  Golden  dreams. — The  ad- 
venture of  the  black  fisherman. 

Isaacs,  Abram  Samuel.  j  296  129a 

Stories  from  the  rabbis.     191 1.     Bloch  Pub.  Co. 

Hebrew  legends  from  the  Talmud  and  Midrash.  Some  of  them  are,  The  Faust  of 
the  Talmud. — The  wooing  of  the  princess. — The  Rip  Van  Winkle  of  the  Talmud. — The 
shepherd's  wife. — The  repentant  rabbi. — The  Munchausen  of  the  Talmud. — The  rabbi's 
dream. — The  gift  that  blessed. — In  the  sweat  of  thy  brow. — A  four-leaved  clover. — A 
string  of  pearls. 

Ivimey,  John  W.  j  I335C 

Complete  version  of  Ye   three  blind  mice;   illustrated   by    Walton 

Corbould.    Warne. 

"Clever  little  picture-book  describing  in  verse  several  adventures  of  the  three  blind 

mice  and  illustrating  them  with  vivacious  drawings   (mainly  in  color)."     Booklist,  1910. 

Jackson,  Dugald  Caleb,  &  Jackson,  J.  P.  j  537  J*2 

Elementary  book  on  electricity  and  magnetism  and   their  applica 

tions;  a  text-book  for  manual  training  schools  and  high  schools,  and  a 

manual  for  artisans,  apprentices  and  home  readers.     1902.     Macmillan. 

Thorough,  accurate  account.    Written  in  an  interesting  manner  and  well  adapted  to 

its  intended  uses. 


i9o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Jackson,  Mrs  Helen  Hunt.  j  J124C 

Cat  stories.    Little. 

Contents:     Letters  from  a  cat. — Mammy  Tittleback  and  her  family;  a  true  story  of 
seventeen  cats. — The  hunter  cats  of  Connorloa. 
Large  type.     Illustrated. 

Jackson,  Mrs  Helen  Hunt.  j  J124I 

Letters  from  a  cat.    Little. 

Published  by  her  mistress  for  the  benefit  of  all  cats  and  the  amusement  of  little 
children.     Also  included  in  her  "Cat  stories." 

Jackson,  Mrs  Helen  Hunt.  j  Ji24n 

Nelly's  silver  mine.     Little. 

Nelly  and  Bob  March  leave  their  New  England  home  and  go  with  their  parents  to 
live  among  the  mountains  in  Colorado  where  they  have  many  interesting  experiences. 

Jackson,  Mrs  Helen  Hunt.  j  Ji24r 

Ramona.     Little. 

Romantic  story  of  southern  California,  the  heroine  being  a  beautiful  girl  brought  up 
on  a  Spanish  ranch  and  the  hero  one  of  the  Mission  Indians. 

The  same,  with  an  introduction  [and]  illustrations  from  original 
photographs  by  A.  C.  Vroman  and  decorative  headings  from  drawings 
by  Henry  Sandham.     Little j  Ji2^T2 

Jackson,  Orton  Porter,  &  Evans,  F.  E.  qj  359  J12 

Marvel  book  of  American  ships.     1917.    Stokes. 

Describes  the  various  types  of  boats  in  the  United  States  navy  and  the  life  and 
training  of  a  man-o'-war's  man.  Also  contains  chapters  on  steamships,  the  freight 
carriers  of  the  merchant  marine,  motor  boats  and  yachts.  Twelve  colored  plates  and 
many  other  illustrations  from  photographs. 

Jacobs,  Joseph,  ed.  j  398.2  J13 

Book  of  wonder  voyages.    1896.    Nutt. 

Kingsley's  version  of  the  voyage  of  the  Argonauts  in  search  of  the  golden  fleece  is 
given  first,  and  other  famous  voyages  to  the  lands  of  fancy  are  added. 

Contents:  The  Argonauts. — The  voyage  of  Maelduin. — Hasan  of  Bassorah. — The 
journeyings  of  Thorkill   and   of  Eric  the  far-travelled. 

Pictures  by  J.  D.  Batten. 

Jacobs,  Joseph,  ed.  j  398  J13 

Celtic  fairy  tales.     1893.     Putnam. 

Fairy  tales  from  Wales,  Scotland  and  Ireland. 

Partial  contents:  Connla  and  the  fairy  maiden. — Conall  Yellowclaw. — The  sprightly 
tailor. — King  O'Toole  and  his  goose. — The  sea-maiden. — A  legend  of  Knockmany. — Beth 
Gellert. — The  tale  of  Ivan. — The  battle  of  the  birds. 

Jacobs,  Joseph,  ed.  j  398  Ji3e 

English  fairy  tales.     1892.     Putnam. 

Includes  Tom  Tit  Tot. — The  old  woman  and  her  pig. — Jack  and  the  beanstalk. — 
Story  of  the  three  little  pigs. — Story  of  the  three  bears. — Jack  the  giant-killer. — Henny- 
penny. — Childe-Rowland. — History  of  Tom  Thumb. — Johnny-cake. — Whittington  and  his 
cat. — The  well  of  the  world's  end. 

Jacobs,  Joseph,  ed.  j  398  Ji3i 

Indian  fairy  tales.    1892.    Putnam. 

Includes  Punchkin. — The  tiger,  the  Brahman  and  the  jackal. — The  talkative  tor- 
toise.— The  gold-giving  serpent. — The  ass  in  the  lion's  skin. — Why  the  fish  laughed. — 
The  ivory  city  and  its  fairy  princess. 

Stories  are  taken  from  the  Jatakas  or  birth-stories  of  Buddha,  the  fables  of  Bidpai 
and  other  Sanskrit  folk-tales. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  191 

Jacobs,  Joseph,  cd.  j  398  J131T1 

More  Celtic  fairy  tales.     1895.    Putnam. 

Fairy  tales  from  Ireland  and  Scotland,  including  The  fate  of  the  children  of  Lir. — 
Paddy  O'Kelly  and  the  weasel. — The  legend  of  Knockgrafton. — How  Fin  went  to  the 
kingdom  of  the  Big  Men. 

Pictures  by  J.  D.  Batten. 

Jacobs,  Joseph,  ed.  j  398  Ji3mo 

More  English  fairy  tales.     1894.    Putnam. 

Contains  The  black  bull  of  Norroway. — Tom  Hickathrift. — The  wee  bannock. — The 
three  wishes. — -The  children  in  the  wood. — King  John  and  the  abbot  of  Canterbury. — 
Catskin. — The  wise  men  of  Gotham. 

Mr  J.  D.  Batten's  illustrations  are  nearly  as  delightful  as  the  stories  themselves. 

James,  George  Wharton.  j  917.89  J16 

Little  journey  to  some  strange  places  and  peoples  in  our  south- 
western land  (New  Mexico  and  Arizona),  for  home  and  school,  inter- 
mediate and  upper  grades.     1911.    Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

Author  conducts  an  imaginary  party  of  boys  and  girls  through  Arizona  and  New 
Mexico.  They  visit  Indian  villages,  witness  the  Hopi  snake  dance  and  other  curious 
ceremonies,  and  see  the  cliff  dwellings,  the  pictured  rocks,  the  petrified  forest,  the 
Grand  canyon,  the  towns  and  cities  of  the  Southwest. 

Janvier,  Thomas  Allibone.  j  Ji88a 

Aztec  treasure-house.     Harper. 

Stirring  adventure  story,  the  scene  of  which  is  the  Mexico  of  the  present  day.  It 
tells  of  the  search  for  a  great  treasure  hidden  more  than  a  thousand  years  ago  in  a 
curiously  secret  place  among  the  Mexican  mountains  by  Chaltzantzin,  the  third  of  the 
Aztec  kings. 

Janvier,  Thomas  Allibone.  j  Ji88i 

In  the  Sargasso  sea.     Harper. 

Story  of  a  castaway  who,  shipwrecked  and  ingulfed  in  the  mysterious  maze  of  the 
"Dead  man's  sea,"  finds  the  long-lost  treasure  of  a  Spanish  galleon. 

Jatakas.  j  398.91  J21 

Jataka  tales;  re-told  by  E.  C.  Babbitt.    1912.    Century. 

East  Indian  fables.  They  tell  of  the  turtle  who  couldn't  stop  talking,  the  strong  ox 
who  won  a  forfeit,  the  foolish  timid  rabbit,  the  elephant  Girly-face,  the  king  of  the 
banyan  deer,  and  other  fabled  beasts.     Illustrated  with  silhouettes. 

Jenks,  Tudor.  j  904  J25 

Book  of  famous  sieges.     1909.     Doubleday. 

"The  exploits  of  the  Persians  under  Cyrus,  of  the  Spartans  against  the  Athenian 
allies  of  Plataea,  of  Alexander  against  Tyre,  and  so  on,  following  the  art  of  war  as 
waged  by  Ca:sar,  Titus,  by  the  Saracens  and  the  Crusaders,  and  the  great  commanders 
of  more  modern  times  down  to  the  Japanese  taking  of  Port  Arthur."     Preface. 

Jenks,  Tudor.  j  910.9  J25 

Boys'  book  of  explorations;  true  stories  of  the  heroes  of  travel  and 
discovery  in  Africa,  Asia  and  Australia,  from  the  "dark  ages"  to  the 
"wonderful  century."     1900.     Doubleday. 

Includes  the  adventures  of   Rockhill   in   the  "forbidden  land,"   Sir   Samuel    Baker's 
discovery  of   the  Albert  Nyanza,   Stanley's  search   for   Livingstone  and  his   explorations 
in  the  heart  of  the  "dark  continent"  and  the  perilous  expedition  of  Sven  Hedin  in  mux 
plored  Asia.     Maps  and  illustrations. 

Jenks,  Tudor.  j  92  S785J 

Captain  Myles  Standish.     1005.     Century. 

Tells  what  is  known  of  the  early  life  "f  Miles  Standish,  how  he  came  over  in  the 
Mayflower  to  Plymouth  in  1620,  was  appointed  captain  by  the  Pilgrims  and  commanded 
various  expeditions  against  the  Indians.  Really  a  brief  history  of  the  beginnings  of 
Plymouth  colony.      Illustrated. 


i92  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Jenks,  Tudor.  J  621.309  J25 

Electricity  for  young  people.     1907.     Stokes. 

The  progress  of  electricity  from  its  first  appearance  to  the  ancients  as  a  mysterious 
force  to  its  present  use  for  light,  heat  and  power.  Also  tells  of  its  recent  remarkable 
developments,  such  as  the  X  rays,  the  wireless  telegraph,  the  telautograph,  etc. 

Jenks,  Tudor.  J  6l4-84  J25 

The  fireman,  [with]  pictures  by  G.  A.  Williams.  1911.  McClurg. 
("What  shall  I  be?"  series.) 

Beginning  with  an  account  of  old  times  and  the  volunteer  system,  shows  the  ad- 
vantage of  modern  methods  of  fire  fighting  and  tells  of  the  different  kinds  of  fires,  the 
system  of  fire-alarms,  how  fire  companies  are  managed  and  the  work  of  the  fireman. 

Jenks,  Tudor.  J  770  J25 

Photography  for  young  people.     1908.    Stokes. 

Tells  how  to  select  and  use  a  camera  and  about  the  developing  and  printing  of 
pictures.  Also  contains  a  brief  history  of  photography  and  chapters  on  the  action  of 
light,  the  chemistry  of  photographic  processes,  color  work,  etc.  Illustrations  and 
diagrams. 

Jenks,  Tudor.  J  656.8  J25 

The   sailor,    [with]    pictures   by   G.  A.  Williams.      191 1.     McClurg. 

("What  shall  I  be?"  series.) 

Account  of  a  sailor's  life  and  of  his  work  on  shipboard,  with  a  brief  history  of  the 
development  of  ships  and  a  chapter  on  "Books  about  the  sailor." 

Jenks,  Tudor,  ed.  J  J259t 

Tales  of  fantasy.     Hall  &  Locke.     (Young  folks'  library,  new  ser. 

v.4-) 

Contents:  Gulliver  in  Lilliput,  Gulliver  in  Brobdingnag,  by  Jonathan  Swift. — A 
Christmas  fantasy,  by  T.  B.  Aldrich. — The  knight  and  his  story,  by  Baron  de  la  Motte 
Fouque. — The  merchant  and  the  genie,  The  first  old  man  and  the  hind,  The  second  old 
man  and  the  two  black  dogs,  Sindbad  the  sailor  and  the  rocs,  from  the  Arabian  nights. — 
The  caliph  turned  stork,  by  W.  Hauff. — Prince  Prigio,  by  A.  Lang. — The  enchanted 
doll,  by  M.  Lemon. — The  rose  and  the  ring,  by  W.  M.  Thackeray. — Peter  Schlemihl,  by 
A.  von  Chamisso. 

Jerrold,  Walter,  ed.  qj  398.91  J28 

Big  book  of  fables;  illustrated  by  Charles  Robinson.  1912.  Cald- 
well. 

Includes  fables  both  in  prose  and  verse,  selected  from  many  sources.  Twenty-eight 
full-page  colored  plates  and  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

Jerrold,  Walter,  ed.  qj  398.8  J28 

Big  book  of  nursery  rhymes.     [1911.]     Blackie. 
Many  pictures  by  Charles  Robinson. 

Jerrold,  Walter,  ed.  j  398  J28 

Reign  of  King  Oberon.    Dent.     (True  annals  of  fairyland.) 

More  stories  from  the  wonderful  annals  of  fairyland;  told  at  the  court  of  King 
Oberon  by  Puck,  Robin  Goodfellow,  the  fairy  Peaseblossom  and  others  of  his  subjects. 
Among  the  stories  are,  The  gifts  of  the  dwarfs. — Karl  Katz. — The  bear  and  Skrattel. — 
The  three  sneezes. — The  little  glass  shoe. — East  o'  the  sun  and  west  o'  the  moon. 

Pictures  by  Charles  Robinson. 

Jewett,  Frances  Gulick.  j  612  J31 

The  body  at  work.    1909.    Ginn.     (Gulick  hygiene  series.) 

"Bibliographical  list,"  p.219. 

Physiology,  for  seventh  grade,  with  emphasis  on  the  training  of  the  body  for  ef- 
ficiency. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  193 

Jewett,  Frances  Gulick.  j  613  J31 

Good  health.     1906.    Ginn.     (Gulick  hygiene  series.) 

"Bibliographical  list,"  p.171-172. 

First  of  a  series  of  text-books  for  elementary  school  use,  based  on  the  theory  that 
children  should  be  taught  through  experiment  and  personal  experience.  This  volume, 
for  the  fourth  grade,  gives  concrete  facts  regarding  the  need  for  pure  air,  cleanliness, 
sleep,  exercise,  etc.,  relating  them  so  far  as  possible  to  the  child's  own  life  and  environ- 
ment. 

Jewett,  Frances  Gulick.  j  614  J31 

Town  and  city.     1906.     Ginn. 

Explains  clearly  the  sanitary  measures  desirable  in  crowded  communities,  and  shows 
the  good  results  obtained  by  modern  methods  of  city  sanitation.  Well  adapted  for  use 
in  schools. 

Partial  contents:  Juvenile  street-cleaning  leagues. — Garbage,  ashes  and  rubbish. — 
Parks,  playgrounds  and  public  baths. — Fires. — Drinking  water. — Food  inspection. — War 
against  tuberculosis. — Little  Turtle,  Abraham  Lincoln  and  the  Lincoln  Legion. — Why 
mosquitoes  should  go. 

Jewett,  John  Howard.  j  J3161D 

Bunny  stories.     Stokes. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.16-17,  Jan.   1880-May  1890. 

Adventures,  fun  and  frolics  of  four  rabbit-children,  Bunnyboy,  Browny,  Pinkeyes 
and  Cuddledown. 

Jewett,  John  Howard.  j  J3i6if 

Friends  of  the  hunted.    Dodge. 

Animal  story,  in  which  the  rabbit,  hare,  fox  and  horse  have  the  protection  of 
Friend  Rambler  and  his  grandson. 

Jewett,  John  Howard.  j  J3i6im 

More  bunny  stories  for  young  people.    Stokes. 

Continues  the  annals  of  the  Bunny  family  who  lived  on  Runwild  terrace. 

Jewett,  John  Howard.  j  J3i6it 

Three  baby  bears.    Nister.     (Little  mother  series.) 

Colored  pictures  and  rhymes  telling  the  adventures  of  Fluffy,  Nig  and  Dingy,  the 
three  baby  bears. 

Jewett,  Sarah  Orne.  j  J3i6b 

Betty  Leicester.    Houghton. 

Wide-awake  Betty  spends  a  summer  in  a  New  England  country  town  and  tin ds 
something  to  do  even  in  sleepy  old  Tideshead.  She  forms  the  Out-of-Door  Club  and 
joins  the  mysterious  S.  B.  C.  Among  her  other  good  times  are  the  garden  tea  and  the 
camping  party  in  which  the  "left  out"  ones  and  the  "won't  play"  ones  joined. 

Jewett,  Sarah  Orne.  j  J3i6be 

Betty  Leicester's  Christmas.     Houghton. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 23,  Dec.   1895-Feb.   1896. 

Betty's  happy  and  long-to-be-remembered  Christmas  at  Danesly  castle.  Sequel  to 
"Betty  Leicester." 

Jewett,  Sophie.  j  92  F866j 

God's  troubadour;  the  story  of  St.  Francis  of  Assisi.     1910.    Crowell. 

Account  of  his  childhood  days  in  Assisi,  of  the  Brotherhood  of  Little  Poor  Men,  of 
Rrother  Wolf  and  the  bird  sisters,  of  the  Christmas-tide  at  Greccio  and  of  the  trouba- 
dour's last  song.  Many  pictures,  some  of  Assisi,  and  others  reproduced  from  old 
frescoes  and  paintings. 

Johnson,  Ben  W.  j  684  J35 

Coping  saw  work.  1008.  Manual  Arts  Press.  (Manual  training  re- 
prints; ser.  A,  no. 2.) 

Adapted  for  fourth  grade.  The  models  are  full  of  fun  for  the  children  and  afford 
means  for  training  in    form  study,  construction,  invention  and  careful   work. 


194  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Johnson,  Clifton,  cd.  j  398  J35D 

Birch-tree  fairy  book;  favorite  fairy  tales.     1906.     Little. 
Johnson,  Clifton,  ed.  j  398  J35 

Oak-tree  fairy  book;  favorite  fairy  tales.     191 1.     Little. 
Johnson,  Constance.  j  641  J35 

When  mother  lets  us  cook;  a  book  of  simple  receipts  for  little  folk, 
with  important  cooking  rules  in  rhyme,  with  handy  lists  of  the  ma- 
terials and  utensils  needed  for  the  preparation  of  each  dish.  1908.  Moffat. 

Johnson,  Constance.  j  636  J35 

When  mother  lets  us  keep  pets.     191 1.     Moffat. 

Tells  how  to  feed  and  take  care  of  dogs,  cats,  rabbits,  guinea  pigs,  parrots,  canaries, 
chickens,  ponies  and  goats;  also  of  fish  and  tadpoles  in  an  aquarium. 

Johnson,  George  F.  j  684  J36 

Toys  and  toymaking.     191 2.    Longmans. 

Brief  but  definite  directions  and  dimensioned  drawings  for  construction  of  simple 
models. 

"The  materials  employed  are  all  of  a  simple  and  suitable  nature,  and,  where  it  is 
difficult  to  obtain  those  recommended  in  the  Introductory  Notes,  efficient  substitutes 
will  be  found  in  ordinary  used  matches  and  old  cardboard  boxes  or  stiff  paper."     Preface. 

Johnson,  Rossiter.  j  g2  S652J 

Captain  John  Smith,  1579-1631.  1915.  Macmillan.  (True  stories  of 
great  Americans.) 

Life  of  the  soldier,  explorer  and  colonizer,  based  largely  on  Capt.  Smith's  own  nar- 
rative of  his  adventures. 

Johnson,  Rossiter.  j  J364e 

The  end  of  a  rainbow.    Scribner. 

"At  the  end  of  a  rainbow  there  is  always  a  crock  of  gold."  How  some  children 
sought  this  wealth,  also  how  they  "unhaunted"  a  house  and  of  their  other  original 
schemes. 

Johnson,  Rossiter.  j  973  c  J36 

History  of  the  War  of  1812-15.     1882.    Dodd. 

"Description  of  the  land  and  naval  battles,  with  chapters  on  the  causes  of  the  war 
and  the  Hartford  convention."     Larned's  Literature  of  American  history. 

Johnson,  Rossiter.  ;  j364p 

Phaeton  Rogers.     Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"  v.8,  Jan.-Oct.    1881. 

Phaeton  Rogers  is  an  unlucky  "bright"  boy  whose  inventions  are  always  getting 
him  into  sorry  scrapes. 

Johnson,  Valentine  Edward.  j  53I  j-5 

Mechanics  and  some  of  its  mysteries.  1912.  Hodder.  (Playbooks 
of  science.) 

Contents:  Properties  of  matter.-Specific  gravity.— Centre  of  gravity.— Spinning 
tops  and  the  dynamics  of  rotation.— The  gyroscope.-The  boomerang.-Designographs  — 
Pendulums.— Linkages  and  pantagraphs. 

"Of  the  various  experiments  described  a  large  number  are  original ..  .They  have  al- 
most without  exception  been  personally  performed  by  the  author  and  every  one  is  quite 
piacticable  if  due  care  and  a  little  patience  be  exercised."     Preface. 

Johnston,  Mrs  Annie  (Fellows).  j  j36?j 

Joel,  a  boy  of  Galilee.    Page. 

witnP;iCtt,re,Slife-in,Paleftin,e  hlihe  dme  °f  Christ-Joel,  the  boy  of   Galilee,   being  a 
witness  to   Ins  lunacies,   death   and  resurrection.  .  s 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  195 

Johnston,  Mrs  Annie  (Fellows).  j  J367S 

Story  of  Dago.     Page. 
A  monkey  story. 

Johnston,  Charles  Haven  Ladd.  j  923.5  J36 

Famous  cavalry  leaders;  through  the  ages  with  the  heroes  of  sabre, 
spur  and  saddle,  with  faithful  accounts  of  their  forced  marches,  dash- 
ing raids  and  glorious  charges.     1908.    Page.     (Famous  leaders  series.) 

Contents:  Attila. —  Saladin. —  Genghis  Khan. —  Chevalier  Bayard. —  Count  Pappcn- 
heim. — Gustavus  Adolphus. — Prince  Rupert. — Old  Father  Ziethen. — Frederick  William, 
baron  von  Seydlitz. — Francis  Marion. — Marshal  Ney. — Joachim  Murat. — Jeb  Stuart. — 
Phil   Sheridan. — G.  A.  Custer. 

Johnston,  Charles  Haven  Ladd.  j  923.9  J36 

Famous  discoverers  and  explorers  of  America;  their  voyages,  battles 
and  hardships  in  traversing  and  conquering  the  unknown  territories  of 
a  New  World.     1917.     Page.     (Famous  leaders  series.) 

Contents:  Leif  Ericson. — Christopher  Columbus. — Amerigo  Vespucci.— Juan  Ponce 
de  Leon. — Vasco  Nunez  de  Balboa. — Hernando  Cortes. — Ferdinand  Magellan. — Giovanni 
Verrazano. — Francisco  Pizarro. — Hernando  de  Soto. — Samuel  de  Champlain. — Henry 
Hudson. — P.  E.  Radisson. — Father  Marquette. — Robert  de  La  Salle. — R.  E.  Peary. 

Johnston,  Charles  Haven  Ladd.  j  970.2  J36 

Famous  Indian  chiefs;  their  battles,  treaties,  sieges  and  struggles 
with  the  whites  for  the  possession  of  America.  [1914.]  Page.  (Famous 
leaders  series.) 

Contents:  Powhatan. — Opechancanough. — Sassacus  and  Uncas. — Massasoit. — King 
Philip. — Pontiac. — Logan. — Red  Jacket. — Capt.  Joseph  Brant.  —  Little  Turtle. — Tecum- 
seh. — Weatherford. — Black  Hawk. — Osceola. — Roman  Nose. — Geronimo. — Red  Cloud. — 
Sitting  Bull  and  Crazy  Horse. 

Johnston,  Charles  Haven  Ladd.  j  920  J36 

Famous  scouts,  including  trappers,  pioneers  and  soldiers  of  the 
frontier;  their  hazardous  and  exciting  adventures  in  the  mighty  drama 
of  the  white  conquest  of  the  American  continent.  [1913.]  Page.  (Fa- 
mous leaders  series.) 

Contents:     General  Israel  Putnam.  —  Daniel  Boone. — Sim>>n   Kenton.    -Captain  Sam- 
uel  Brady. — The  two  athletic  Poes,   and   Major   Sam   McCulloch.  —  Lewis   and   Clarke. 
Colonel  Davy  Crockett. — General  Sam  Houston.    -Kit  Carson. — General  W.  S.  Harne) 
Wild    Bill    Hickok.— Captain    D.  L.    Payne.— White    Beaver.— D,     D.  F.    Powell.     \V    1. 
Cody. — Conclusion. 

Johnston,  Emma  L.  &  Barnum,  M.  D.  j  372.4  J36 

Book  of  plays  for  little  actors.     1907.    Amer.  Hook  Co. 
Partial  contents:     The  spider  and  the  fly,-    Mary  and  her  lamb.     George  Washing- 
ton and  the  cherry  tree. — Tom,  the  piper's  son.     Mother   Hubbard  and   her  dog,      ["he 
first  Thanksgiving  day. — The  sleeping  beauty. 

Johonnot,  James.  j  590.4  J37f 

Friends  in  feathers  and  fur,  and  other  neighbors;  for  young  folks. 

1884.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Pictures,  verses  and  stories  "t~  birds,  squirrels,  mice,  toads,   rabbits,  chickens,  . 
ainl  1  ither  animals. 

Johonnot,  James,  com  p.  j  910  J37 

Geographical  reader.     iNNj.     Amer.  Book  I  ■■. 

About  volcanoes,  earthquakes,  glaciers,  coral  islands,  geysers,  tin-  aurora  borealis, 
the  peculiar  customs  of  different  parts  of  the  world,  tiom  are   from 

travel  by  such   authors   as   Bayard   Taylor,   George   William   Curtis,    Livingstone 
Chaillu. 


iq6  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Johonnot,  James,  comp.  3  J375g 

Grandfather's  stories.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:      Fables.— Stories    of    fairy-land.— Myths.— Legends.— Home    stories.— 
Foreign  stories. 
Johonnot,  James.  J  590-4  J37" 

Neighbors  with  claws  and  hoofs,  and  their  kin;  for  boys  and  girls. 
1885.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Partial  contents:  Cats  of  desert  and  jungle. — The  guardians  of  the  household. — 
The  legend  of  Bishop  Hatto.— Bird-language.— The  monarch  of  the  mountain.— How  I 
killed  a  bear.— The  bear  in  fable  and  story.— Giants  with  tusks  and  trunk. — Antlered 
tenants  of  the  woods. — The  ship  of  the  desert. — Long-tailed  dwellers  of  the  tree-tops. — 
Tailless  tree-climbers  of  the  wilds. 
Johonnot,  James.  j  598.2  J37 

Neighbors  with  wings  and  fins  and  some  others,  for  young  people. 
1885.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contains  such  stories  and  poems  as  Bird  of  Christmas. — The  stormy  petrel.— Oar 
footed  sea-fliers. — Cats  in  feathers. — Fairies  on  the  wing. — The  pewee. — The  bobolinks. 

Johonnot,  James.  j  590.4  J37S 

Some  curious  flyers,  creepers  and  swimmers.  1887.  Amer.  Book  Co. 
Partial    contents:     The    scavenger   bird. — About   eels. — Poisonous    creepers    of   the 

wilds. — Fruit    and   grain    destroyers. — Spider   ways   and   spider   stories. — Locusts   in    the 

East. — Grubbers  for  ants. — The  flying  mouse. 

Johonnot,  James,  comp.  j  904  J37st 

Stories  of  heroic  deeds,  for  boys  and  girls.    1887.    Amer.  Book  Co. 
Contents:     Myths. — Indian  stories. — Stories  of  the  Revolution. — Scottish  stories. — 

Miscellaneous  stories. 

Johonnot,  James,  comp.  j  904  J37S 

Stories  of  other  lands.     1888.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Historical  reader,  including  accounts  of  Magellan,  Cortes,  Pizarro,  Joan  of  Arc, 
Oliver  Cromwell,  Sir  John  Moore,  Michael  Angelo,  Raphael,  Sir  Isaac  Newton,  George 
Stephenson,  Samuel  Johnson,  Flora  MacDonald  and  Grace  Darling. 

Johonnot,  James,  comp.  j  973  J37 

Stories  of  our  country.    1887.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Mainly  incidents  of  colonial  and  Revolutionary  times. 

Partial  contents:  John  Smith  and  Pocahontas. — Deerfield  and  the  St.  Regis  bell. — 
The  charter-oak. — The  Acadian  exiles. — William  Penn  and  the  Indians. — The  pine-tree 
shillings. — Washington  crossing  the  Delaware. — Ethan  Allen  and  Ticonderoga. — Valley 
Forge. — Perry  and  Lake  Erie. — Battle  of  New  Orleans. 

Johonnot,  James,  comp.  j  904  J37 

Stories  of  the  olden  time.     1889.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Myths  and  legends  and  historical  stories  of  Greece,  Rome  and  mediaeval  times,  to- 
gether with  such  spirited  verse  as  "Horatius,"  "Virginius,"  "Chevy  Chase"  and  the 
"Battle  of  Agincourt." 

Johonnot,  James,  comp.  j  904  J37t 

Ten  great  events  in  history.    1887.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  Defense  of  freedom  by  Greek  valor. — Crusades  and  the  crusaders. — De- 
fense of  freedom  in  Alnine  passes. — Bruce  and  Bannockburn. — Columbus  and  the  New 
World.— Defense  of  freedom  on  Dutch  dikes.— The  Invincible  Armada. — Freedom's 
voyage  to  America. — Plassey;  and  how  an  empire  was  won. — Lexington  and  Bunker  Hill. 
Jokai,  Mor,  and  others.  j  j378go 

Golden  fairy  book.     Burt. 

Stories  from  the  French,  Italian,  Russian,  Hungarian,  Servian  and  Portuguese  and 
also  one  from  South  Africa. 

Some  of  the  stories  are,  The  prince  with  the  hand  of  gold. — The  enchanted  whistle. 
—The  little  grey  man.— The  blue  cat.— The  slippers  of  Abou-Karem.— The  three  sisters 
and  their  glass  hearts. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  197 

Jonckheere,  Robert.  j  914.93  J39 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Belgium.  1915.  Lothrop.  (Children  of 
other  lands  books.) 

A  Belgian  refugee  tells  of  his  early  home  and  school  life,  of  his  favorite  games  and 
of  visits  to  different  cities.  He  tells  also  of  the  outbreak  of  the  European  war  and  of 
his  flight  from  Belgium. 

Jones,  Henry  Bedford-.    See  Bedford-Jones,  Henry. 

Jordan,  David  Starr,  &  Evermann,  B.  W.  qj  597  J42 

American  food  and  game  fishes;  a  popular  account  of  all  the  species 
found  in  America  north  of  the  equator,  with  keys  for  ready  identifica- 
tion, life  histories  and  methods  of  capture.    1902.    Doubleday. 

Illustrated  with   many  text  drawings,  photographs   from  life  and  colored  plates. 

Jordan,  David  Starr,  ed.  j  590.4  J42 

Book  of  natural  history.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library, 
new  ser.  v.14.) 

Contents:  Animals,  birds  and  fishes,  by  D.  S.  Jordan. — The  wonder  of  life,  by 
T.  H.  Huxley. — Life  growth;  frogs,  by  M.  W.  Morley. — The  man-like  apes,  by  T.  H. 
Huxley. — Some  strange  nurseries,  by  Grant  Allen. — How  animals  spend  the  winter,  by 
W.  S.  Blatchley. — Birds'  nests,  by  John  Burroughs. — Birds  in  their  relation  to  agricul- 
ture, by  Lawrence  Bruner. — The  scissor  beak,  The  condor,  by  Charles  Darwin. — The 
umbrella  bird,  by  Sir  A.  R.  Wallace. — Humming  birds,  by  T.  G.  Belt. — The  foundations 
of  a  wonderful  city,  by  Maurice  Maeterlinck. — Wasps,  by  T.  G.  Belt. — A  wasp  and  its 
prey,  by  G.  W.  and  E.  G.  Peckham. — Leaf-cutting  ants,  by  T.  G.  Belt. — Some  wonderful 
spiders,  by  Charles  Darwin. — What  I  saw  in  an  ant's  nest,  by  Andrew  Wilson. — The 
wild  llama,  by  Charles  Darwin. — Bats,  by  W.  S.  Dallas. — How  snakes  eat,  by  C.  C.  Hop- 
ley. — What  worms  do,  by  Charles  Darwin. — Two  fops  among  the  fishes,  by  W.  S.  Blatch- 
ley.— Sea  slugs  and  cuttle-fish,  by  Charles  Darwin. — The  cow  fish,  by  Sir  A.  R.  Wallace. 
— Old  rattler  and  the  king  snake,  The  story  of  a  strange  land,  by  D.  S.  Jordan. — The 
color  of  animals,  by  Sir  John  Lubbock. — Protective  resemblances  in  spiders,  by  E.  G. 
Peckham. — The  bath  of  the  birds,  by  Richard  Jefferies. — The  loon,  by  H.  D.  Thoreau. — 
The  Dartmoor  ponies,  by  A.  R.   Buckley. — Biographical  notes. 

Jordan,  David  Starr.  j  J428m 

Matka  and  Kotik.    Wagner. 

Tale  of  the  Mist-islands  and  of  the  life  and  habits  of  the  fur  seals.  Tells  of  the 
coming  of  the  beach-masters  and  of  the  "silken-haired  ones,"  of  the  battle  of  the  seals, 
the  drive  and  the  long  swim.     Many  pictures  from  photographs  and  pen  sketches. 

Jordan,  David  Starr. 

Story  of  Matka.    See  his  Matka  and  Kotik. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 
Josephus,  Flavius.  j  933  J440 

Our  young  folks'  Josephus:  The  antiquities  of  the  Jews,  and  The 
Jewish  wars;  simplified  by  William  Shepard.     1885.     Lippincott. 

Josephus  was  a  learned  Jew  who  lived  in  the  latter  half  of  the  first  century.  "The 
antiquities  of  the  Jews"  was  written  by  him  about  the  year  93  in  order  to  familiarize  Uic 
Roman  people  with  the  early  history  of  the  Jews  and  covers  the  whole  period  from  the 
creation  to  the  outbreak  of  the  Roman  wars.  "The  Jewish  war,"  written  at  the  command 
of  the  emperor  Vespasian,  gives  an  account  of  the  revolt  against  Rome,  in  which  Jo- 
sephus  took  part,  and  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem. 

Josephus,  Flavius.  j  933  J44 

Story  of  the  last  days  of  Jerusalem;  ed.  by  A.J.  Church.  iSoj. 
Seeley. 

Retold  from  "The  Jewish  war."     Tells  of  the  opening  of  the  war  with   the   R01 
of  Jnscphus's  brave  defense  of  Jotapata,  its  final  capture  and  his  escape  from  death,  and 
of  the  siege  of  Jerusalem  and  its  fall.     Colored  illustrations;  among  tret  of 

Roman  eagles,  the  testudo,  the  battering  ram,  the  triumpl 


198  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Joyce,  Patrick  Weston.  j  94x-5  J48C 

Child's  history  of  Ireland  [to  1847].     1898.     Longmans. 

Same  as  "Concise  history  of  Ireland." 

"The  History  of  Ireland,  though  on  the  whole  a  very  sad  history,  abounds  in  records 
of  heroic  deeds  and  heroic  endurance,  like  those  of  Deny  and  Limerick."     Preface. 

Many  pictures. 

Joyce,  Patrick  Weston. 

Concise  history  of  Ireland.    See  his  Child's  history  of  Ireland. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Joyce,  Patrick  Weston,  comp.  j  941.5  J48 

Reading  book  in  Irish  history.    1900.    Longmans. 

Contains  legends  of  both  pagan  and  Christian  Ireland.  Among  others,  The  fate  of 
the  children  of  Lir. — The  fate  of  the  sons  of  Usna. — The  voyage  of  Maildune. 

Judd,  Mary  Catherine.  j  372.4  J49 

Palmer  Cox  Brownie  primer;  arranged  from  Palmer  Cox's  Brownie 
books.     1906.    Century. 

Many  Brownie  pictures. 
Judd,  Mary  Catherine,  comp.  j  398.097  J49 

Wigwam  stories,  told  by  North  American  Indians.     1901.     Ginn. 

Contents:     Sketches  of  various  tribes  of  North  American  Indians. — Traditions  and 
myths. — Stories  recently  told  of  Hiawatha  and  other  heroes. 
Pictures  by  an  Indian  artist  and  others  from  photographs. 

Judson,  Harry  Pratt.  j  342.7  J4ga 

Young  American;  a  civic  reader.     191 1.     Merrill. 

Outlines  of  our  system  of  government,  interspersed  with  patriotic  selections  in  prose 
and  verse. 

Judy,  Aunt,  pseud.    See  Gatty,  Mrs  Margaret  (Scott). 

Jungman,  Beatrix.  j  914.92  J52 

Holland,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Nico  Jungman.  1908.  Black. 
(Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Begins  with  the  story  of  Count  Bordewyn  and  the  robbers  and  tells  something  of 
the  history  of  this  picturesque  little  country,  of  the  brave  fight  with  the  sea,  and  of 
the  every-day  life,  the  quaint  manners  and  customs  of  the  people. 

j  J543 

Juvenile  round  table;  stories  by  the  foremost  Catholic  writers.  3v. 
Benziger. 

Partial  contents: 

v.i.  "Go,  thou,  and  do  likewise,"  by  F.  J.  Finn.— A  drummer  boy,  by  A.  T.  Sadlier. 
—Little  Monsieur,  by  M.  T.  Waggaman.— "The  Spanish  spy,"  by  M.  F.  Egan.— In  the 
gorge  of  the  Black  despair,  by  David  Selden. 

v.2.  St.  Anne's  clients,  by  M.  G.  Bonesteel.— The  Jominys'  experiment,  by  M.  C. 
Crowley.— Vera's  tramp,  by  K.  T.  Hinkson.— A  runaway's  Christmas,  by  S.  T.  Smith.— 
The  fortune-bag,  by  Eugenie  Uhlrich. 

v-3.  Freda's  Christmas,  by  M.  T.  Waggaman.— The  little  red  shoes,  by  A.  T.  Sad- 
JerVrWhen  P,rates  salled  the  seas'  W  Dav'd  Selden.— The  discontented  maiden,  by 
S.  M.  O'Malley. — Fra  Angehco's  pupil,  by  Katharine  Jenkins. 

Kaler,  James  Otis.    Sec  Otis,  James,  pseud. 

KasmarM.K.  j  533-6  K13 

Pirst  lessons  in  aeronautics.  1909.  Amer.  Aeronautical  Soc.  (Avia- 
tion series.) 

Gives  in  simple  language  the  principles  of  flight  and  their  application. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  199 

Keary,  Annie.  &  Keary,  Kliza.  j  293  Kish 

Heroes  of  Asgard;  tales  from  Scandinavian  mythology.  1006.  Mac- 
millan. 

Contents:  The  .Esir. — How  Thor  went  to  Jotunheim. — Frey. — The  wanderings  of 
Freyja. — Iduna's  apples. —  Baldur. — The  binding  of  Fenrir. — The  punishment  of  Loki. — 
Ragnarok. 

Keary,  Annie.  j  Ki5iy 

A  York  and  a  Lancaster  Rose.     Macmillan. 

Two  little  English  girls,  both  named  Rose,  become  friends  and  help  each  other. 

Keats,  John.  j  821  K15 

Eve  of  St.  Agnes,  and  sonnets.     Putnam. 

"And  still  she  slept  in  azure-lidded  sleep, 
In  blanched  linen,  smooth,  and  lavender'd, 
While  he  from   forth  the  closet  brought  a  heap 
Of  candied  apple,  quince,  and  plum,   and   gourd 
With   jellies  soother  than   the  creamy  curd, 
And  lucent  syrops,  tinct  with  cinnamon; 
Manna  and  dates,  in  argosy  transferr'd 
From  Fez;  and  spiced  dainties,  every  one, 
From  silken   Samarcand  to  cedar'd   Lebanon." 

From  Eve  of  St.  Agnes. 

Keeler,  Harriet  Louise.  j  580  K15 

Our  early  wild  flowers;  a  study  of  the  herbaceous  plants  blooming 

in  early  spring  in  the  northern  states.     1916.     Scribner. 

Attractive   guide   for   the  more   common    plants   which   bloom   in    March,    April    and 

May.     There  are  excellent  descriptions  of  each  flower;  also  a  color   key,   a  glossary  of 

botanical  terms,  indexes  of  English  and  Latin  names  and  many  good  pictures  including 

eight  color  plates  and  12  in  half-tone. 

Keeler,  Harriet  Louise.  j  582  K15 

Our  native  trees  and  how  to  identify  them;  a  popular  study  of  their 
habits  and  their  peculiarities.    Ed. 5.    1905.    Scribner. 

Not  only  gives  full  and  accurate  descriptions,  but  includes  many  literary  quotations. 
340  illustrations,  more  than  half  of  them  from  photographs. 

Keeler,  Harriet  Louise.  j  580  K15W 

Wayside  flowers  of  summer;  a  study  of  the  conspicuous  herbaceous 

plants  blooming  upon   our   northern   roadsides   during  the    months   of 

July  and  August.     1917.    Scribner. 

Companion  volume  to  "Our  early  wild  flowers."     Well  illustrated. 

Keene,  John  Harington.  j  799  K157 

Boy's  own  guide  to  fishing,  tackle-making  and  fish-breeding.  [894. 
Lothrop. 

Contents:  Sucker  fishing. — Pickerel  trolling  in  spring.  —  Bait  fishing  for  trout. — 
Fishing  for  the  sun-fish  and  other  "boys'  fishes." — Fly-fishing  f<>r  trout  and  fly  making. 
— Fly-fishing  for  bass,  perch,  sun-fish,  etc  Minnow  fishing  for  trout.  -Bast  fishing 
with  the  minnow,  etc.— Fishing  through  the  ice. — Breeding  trout,  etc.   in  winter. 

Keller,  Albert  Galloway,  &  Bishop,  A.  L.  j  910  K165 

Commercial  and  industrial  geography,     iou.     Ginn. 

The  leading  facts  of  commerce  and  industry  are  treated  under  three  divisions:  f I. 

clothing  and  shelter.     Explains  the  i  1  climatic  conditions  upon  the 

occupations  and   productions   of  the  people  and  describes  three  typical   industries:   the 
manufacture   of   rubber,    flou  igraphic    illustrations.      Adapted    for 

seventh  and  eighth  grades. 


200  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Kelley,  Jay  G.  J  549  K16 

The  boy  mineral  collectors.     1899.     Lippincott. 

Object  is  "to  suggest  the  endless  fund  of  entertainment  and  information  open  to 
the  boy  who  chooses  to  pursue  the  study  of  mineralogy."  The  boys  of  the  story  learn 
about  different  minerals,  gold,  silver,  copper  and  iron;  pearls,  diamonds  and  other 
precious  stones;  blow-pipe  tests,  royal  crowns,  treasures  found  in  tombs,  etc. 

Kelley,  Lilla  Elizabeth.  j  79°  K16 

Three  hundred  things  a  bright  girl  can  do.  1903.  Page. 
Contents:  Beads  and  their  uses. — Worsted. — Thread  work. — Joinery  for  girls. — 
Wood  carving. — Bent  iron  work. — Pyrography. — Basketry. — Rug  making. — Cardboard 
construction. — Directions  for  making  paper  flowers  of  crepe  and  tissue. — Art;  line  and 
form. — Art;  clay  modelling. — Art;  colors. — Artistic  handicrafts. — Athletics. — Athletic 
sports. — Collections. — Taxidermy. — Gardens. — Pheasants,  poultry,  bees. — Housewifery, 
entertainment,  amusements. — Girls'  clubs. — What  women  should  know  in  law. 

Kellogg,  Mrs  Eva  Mary  (Crosby).  j  910  K16 

Australia  and  the  islands  of  the  sea.  1898.  Silver.  (The  world  and 
its  people.) 

Includes  all  the  important  islands  and  groups  of  islands,  with  the  exception  of  the 
British  Isles  and  Japan. 

Kellogg,  Vernon  Lyman.  j  595-7  K16 

Insect  stories.  1908.  Holt.  (American  nature  series.) 
Contents:  A  narrow-waisted  mother. — Red  and  black  against  white. — The  vendetta. 
— The  true  story  of  the  pit  of  Morrowbie  Jukes. — Argiope  of  the  silver  shield. — The 
orange-dwellers. — The  dragon  of  Lagunita. — A  summer  invasion. — A  clever  little  brown 
ant. — An  hour  of  living;  or,  The  dance  of  death. — In  Fuzzy's  glass  house. — The  ani- 
mated honey-jars. — Houses  of  oak. 

Kelly,  Margaret  Duncan.  j  92  Ri68k 

Story  of  Sir  Walter  Raleigh.      [1906.]      Jack.      (Children's   heroes 

series.) 

Of  his  boyhood',  his  exploits  in  Ireland,  his  search  for  new  lands  and  gold  and  his 

conquests  of  the  Spaniards. 

Kelly,  Mrs  Meriba  A.  (Babcock).  j  591.5  K17 

Short  stories  of  our  shy  neighbors.  1896.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Eclec- 
tic school  readings.) 

Little  nature  studies  describing  in  story  fashion  insects,  birds  and  animals  to  be  met 
with  in  every-day  life. 

Kelly,  Robert  Talbot.  j  915.9  K17 

Burma,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  the  author.     1908.     Black. 

(Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

The  delicately  colored  pictures  of  pagodas  and  shrines,  boats  and  bungalows  and 

scenes  of  village  life  give  an  added  charm  to  this  story  of  Burma  and  its  people. 

Kelly,  Robert  Talbot.  j  916.2  K17 

Egypt,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  the  author.  1909.  Black. 
(Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Here  one  can  read  of  the  mosques,  bazars  and  fascinating  streets  of  Cairo,  take  with 
the  author  a  trip  up  the  Nile  to  the  first  cataract,  learn  about  the  pyramids  and  other 
wonderful  monuments  of  the  past  and  of  the  life  of  the  people  of  Egypt  to-day. 

Kelman,  Janet  Harvey.  j  821  C41S 

Stories  from  Chaucer;  told  to  the  children.     [1905.]     Jack.     (Told 

to  the  children  series.) 

Contents:    Dorigen,  the  story  by  the  man  of  land. — Emelia,  the  story  by  the  man  of 

might. — Griselda,  the  story  by  the  man  of  books. — Constance,  the  story  by  the  man  of 

law. 

Retold  from  Chaucer's  "Canterbury  tales."     Colored  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Kelman,  Janet  Harvey.  j  92  C356IC 

Story    of    Chalmers   of   New    Guinea.      [1906.]      Jack.      (Children's 

heroes  series.) 

Life  of  the  great  missionary,  known  to  the  South  sea  islanders  as  Tamate.     Colored 

illustrations. 

Kemp,  Agnes.  j  74*  K17 

Painting.     Nelson.     ("What  shall  we  do?"  books,  no.i.) 

Simple  instructions  for  drawing  and  color  work,  with  illustrations  which  children 
can  copy. 

Kennan,  George.  j  915-7  Kl8 

Tent  life  in  Siberia.     1903.     Putnam. 

Adventures  among  the  Koraks  and  other  tribes  in  Kamchatka  and  northern  Asia. 
Author  was  a  member  of  an  exploring  party  of  the  Russo-American  Telegraph  Company 
and  he  tells  how  they  traveled  by  reindeer  or  dog  sledge  through  an  almost  unknown 
region,  slept  in  the  smoky  pologs  of  the  Siberian  Chookchees  and  camped  out  upon  the 
desolate  northern  plains. 

Kennedy,  Howard  Angus.  j  Ki83n 

New  World  fairy  book,  with  illustrations  by  H.  R.  Millar.     Dent. 

Contents:  The  three  wishes. — The  ten  little  Indians. — The  thunderers. — The  stormy- 
fool. — Robin  Redbreast. — The  wolf  boy. — The  water-wolves. — Lightning  gold. — The  joker. 
— The  doctor  fish. — The  adventures  of  Chib. — The  stonish  giants. — The  giant  with  nine 
lives. — The  little  spirit  of  Massawunk. — The  star  wife. — The  enchanted  valley. — Kwee- 
dass  and  Kindawiss. — A  Huron  Cinderella. — The  great  serpent  of  the  hill. — The  battle 
that  never  was  fought. — The  luck-mouse. — The  nymph  and  the  dryad. — The  animal 
fairies. — The  rabbit  and  the  wild-cat. — Tintelle's  mother. — The  giant  of  Flaming  moun- 
tain.— The  cold  princess. — The  snow-man's  bride. 

Tales  of  Indian  magic  and  of  brave  warriors  and  chiefs,  of  Indian  maidens  and 
youths  and  of  fairies  and  enchanted  animals. 

Kennedy,  James  Henry.  j  K184S 

Surprise  island,  the  pirate  of  the  sycamore  tree.     Harper. 

Short  story  of  a  little  girl  and  her  grandfather  who  stay  for  ten  days  on  a  small 
island.     Ellylane  makes  some  surprising  discoveries,  and  many  fairy  like  things  happen. 

Kent,  Roland  Grubb,  &  Hall,  I.  F.  camp.  j  398.91  K19 

Stories  from  the  Far  East.     1913.    Merrill.     (Merrill's  story  books.) 
Book  of  fables.    They  tell  of  the  unthinking  Brahman  who  lost  his  goat,  of  the  mice 
who  freed  the  elephants,  of  the  clever  hare  who  outwitted  the  proud  lion,  of  the  meddle- 
some monkey,  the  stupid  tortoise  and  other  animals. 

Keyes,  Angela  Mary.  j  793  K23 

When  mother  lets  us  play.     1911.    Moffat. 

Indoor  games  for  children,  including  puzzles,  charades,  riddles,  puppet  shows, 
shadow  plays,  etc. 

Keyser,  Leander  Sylvester.  j  598.2  K23 

News  from  the  birds.    1898.    Appleton. 

Partial  contents:  Trials  of  a  bird's  life. — Our  sweetest  songsters.— The  funny  little 
owl. — A  swift-winged  tribe. — A  jolly  field  bird. — Travels  of  the  birds. — Some  curious 
nests. — The  American  quail. — If  birds  could  talk. 

Keysor,  Jennie  Ellis.  j  927  K23g 

Great  artists.     5v.     1809-1901.     Educational  Pub.  Co.     (Biographical 

series.) 

v.i.  Raphael. — Murillo. —  Rubens. — Durer. 

v.2.  Van    Dyck. — Rembrandt.— Reynolds.— Bonheur. 

v.3.  Angelo. — Da  Vinci. — Titian. — Correggio. 

v.4.  Turner. — Corot. — Millais. — Leighton. 

v.5.  Giotto. — Angelico. — Guido  Reni. — Italian  painting. 


202  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Keysor,  Jennie  Ellis.  »  j  928  K23 

Sketches  of  American  authors.     2v.     1895.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

v.i.  Irving. — Cooper. — Drake  and  Halleck. — Bryant. — Hawthorne. — Longfellow. — 
Emerson. — Holland. 

v.2.  Thoreau.— Willis. — Poe. — Taylor. — Lowell. —  Whittier. — ■  Holmes. —  Alice  and 
Phcebe  Cary.— L.  M.  Alcott. 

Kidd,  Dudley.  j  916.8  K24 

South  Africa,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  A.  M.  Goodall.  1908. 
Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Life  in  a  Kafir  kraal  and  among  the  Boers.     Contains  a  chapter  on  diamonds. 
Kieffer,  Henry  Martyn.  j  973.7  K24 

Recollections  of  a  drummer-boy.     1888.    Houghton. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.o-io,  Nov.  1881-Oct.  1883. 

The  author  was  drummer-boy  during  the  Civil  war  in  the  150th  regiment  of  Penn- 
sylvania volunteers  and  he  relates  his  own  experiences  in  camp  and  on  the  battle-field 
from  the  time  of  his  enlistment  to  the  "muster-out." 

Kilpatrick,  Van  Evrie.  j  716  K25 

Child's  food  garden,  with  a  few  suggestions  for  flower  culture. 
1918.    World  Book  Co.     (School  garden  series.) 

Simple  and  definite  directions  that  can  be  followed  easily.  The  pictures  help  to 
make  plain  how  the  work  should  be  done,  and  there  are  frost  maps  for  spring  and 
autumn  and  planting  tables  of  common  vegetables  and  flowering  plants. 

King,  Gen.  Charles.  j  K263ca 

Cadet  days.    Harper. 

Describes  West  Point  customs  and  ideals  in  a  spirited  story  for  boys. 

King,  Gen.  Charles.  j  K263cam 

Campaigning  with  Crook,  and  stories  of  army  life.    Harper. 

Stirring  record  of  adventure  and  hard  service  during  the  Big  Horn  and  Yellowstone 
expeditions.  Contains  also  three  short  stories  of  army  life,  Captain  Santa  Clause — The 
mystery  of  'Mahbin  mill. — Plodder's  promotion. 

King,  Gen.  Charles.  j  K263fr 

From  school  to  battle-field;  a  story  of  the  war  days.     Lippincott. 

Friendship  of  two  boys  in  a  New  York  Latin  school  just  before  the  opening  of  the 
Civil  war  and  their  adventures  with  the  army  of  Gen.  McClellan. 

King,  Gen.  Charles.  j  K263t 

Trooper  Ross,  and  Signal  Butte.    Lippincott. 

Two  stories  of  frontier  life  and  Indian  warfare. 

King,  Charles  Francis.  j  gio  K26 

Picturesque  geographical  readers.     6v.     1896-99.     Lothrop. 

v.i.     At  home  and  at  school. 

v.2.     This  continent  of  ours. 

v.3.     The  land  we  live  in:     New  England  and  middle  states.  '    , 

v.4.     The  land  we  live  in:     Southern,  middle  and  central  states. 

v.5.     The  land  we  live  in:     Rocky  mountains  and  Pacific  slope.   , 

v.6.     Northern  Europe. 

v.6  is  also  published  under  title  "Roundabout  rambles  in  northern  Europe." 
King,  Charles  Francis. 

Roundabout  rambles  in  northern  Europe.  See  his  Picturesque  geo- 
graphical readers,  v.6. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Kingsley,  Charles.  j  5g2  K27 

Glaucus;  or,  The  wonders  of  the  shore.     1887.  Macmillan. 

Suggestions    for   natural    history    study   at   the   seashore.  First    published    in    1855. 

Illustrated. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  203 

Kingsley,  Charles.  j  K272h 

Hereward,  the  Wake.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Hereward  was  a  noted  English  butlaw  and  patriot  of  the  nth  century.  The  story 
tells  of  his  lawless  youth  and  strange  adventures,  how  he  became  a  leader  in  the  fatal 
struggle  against  William  the  Conqueror  and  of  his  heroic  defense  of  Ely.  Gives  a  vivid 
impression  of  the  English  fen  country,  of  the  life  of  the  times,  and  of  the  berserker 
deerfs  of  the  mighty  Wake. 

Pictures  by  Gertrude  D.  Hammond. 

Kingsley,  Charles.  j  292  K27 

Heroes;  or,  Greek  fairy  tales  for  my  children.     1880.     Dutton. 

The  heroes  are  Perseus  who  slew  Medusa  the  gorgon,  Jason  who  sought  the  golden 
fleece,  and  Theseus  who  slew  the  Minotaur.     Colored  illustrations. 

Kingsley,  Charles.  j  K272hy 

Hypatia.     Luxembourg  ed.    Crowell. 

Historical  story  of  the  5th  century  with  Hypatia,  the  maiden  philosopher  of  Alex- 
andria, for  the  heroine.  There  are  many  dramatic  scenes.  Among  them,  the  triumph 
of  Orestes,  the  deaths  of  Amal  and  of  Miriam  and,  above  all,  the  appalling  climax  of 
monkish  fanaticism  on  the  altar  steps  of  the  Caesareum. 

Kingsley,  Charles.  j  551  K27 

Madame  How  and  Lady  Why;  or,  First  lessons  in  earth  lore  for 
children.     1893.     Macmillan. 

About  earthquakes,  volcanoes,  coral   rei  1-  and  the  changes  through  which  the  earth 

has  passed.     An  introduction  to  geology. 

Kingsley,  Charles.  j  K272W 

Water-babies.     Macmillan. 

A  fairy  tale  for  a  land  baby,  containing  the  history  of  the  great  and  famous  nation 
of  the  Do-as-you-likes,  and  the  never-to-be-too-much-studied  account  of  the  wonderful 
things  which  Tom  saw  on   his  journey  to  the  Other-end-of-nowhere. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  Warwick  Goble.     Mac- 
millan  " j  K272W3 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  W.  H.  Robinson.  Houghton.,  j  K272W4 
The  same;  illustrated  by  J.  W.  Smith.    Dodd qj  K272W5 

Kingsley,  Charles.  j  K272we 

Westward  ho!  or.  The  adventures  of  Sir  Annas  Leigh.  Luxem- 
bourg ed.     Crowell. 

Exciting  story  of  adventure  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  the  scenes'  being  in 
England,  South  America  and  on  the  high  seas.  Kingsley  writes  of  the  heroes  of  his 
native  Devon  and  one  gets  a  live  glimpse  of  the  brave  and  adventurous  sailors  "who  in 
those  times  took  the  keels  of  Plymouth  over  great  wastes  of  water.'*  Drake,  Raleigh, 
John  Hawkins,  Sir  Richard  Grenville  and  Martin  Frobisher  are  among  the  characters 
and  the  defeat  of  the  Spanish  Armada  is  one  of  the  chief  incidents.     Then 

"Westward  ho!  with  a  rumbelow 
And  hurra  for  the  Spanish   Main,  O!" 

The  same;  illustrated  by  C.  E.   Brock.     Macmillan j   K272we 

Kipling,  Rudyard.  j  K278C 

Captains  courageous;  a  story  of  the  Grand  Banks.    Century. 
Appeared  in  "McClure's  magazine,"  Nov.  1  I97. 

Harvey  Cheyne,  young,  rich  and  spoiled,  falls  overboard  from  an  Atlantic  liner, 
is  picked  up  by  fishermen  bound   fo  tch   "t'f  the  cast   ,,t    Newt. .midland, 

and  has  to  work  out  his  passage. 


204  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Kipling,  Rudyard.  j  K278J 

Jungle  book.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.21-22,  Nov.   1893-March   1894. 

Contents:  Mowgli's  brothers. — Kaa's  hunting. — "Tiger!  tiger!" — The  white  seal. — 
"Rikki-tikki-tavi." — Toomai  of  the  elephants. — Her  Majesty's  servants. 

The  first  stories  tell  of  Mowgli,  the  man's  cub,  how  he  hunted  with  the  wolf-pack 
of  the  Free  people,  and  slew  the  terrible  Shere  Khan,  the  lame  tiger  of  the  jungle. 

"Feet  in  the  jungle  that  leave  no  mark! 
Eyes  that  can  see  in  the  dark — the  dark!" 

Kipling,  Rudyard.  j  K278JU 

Just  so  stories.    Doubleday. 

These,  "O  Best  Beloved,"  are  some  of  the  "Just  so"  stories  from  the  "High  and 
Far-off  times  when  everybody  started  fair."  They  tell  about  How  the  camel  got  his 
hump. — How  the  rhinoceros  got  his  skin. — The  elephant's  child. — The  sing-song  of  old 
man  kangaroo. — The  crab  that  played  with  the  sea. — The  cat  that  walked  by  himself.— 
The  butterfly  that  stamped. 

Kipling,  Rudyard.  j  K278IC 

Kipling  stories  and  poems  every  child  should  know;  ed.  by  M.  E. 
Burt  and  W.  T.  Chapin.    1909.    Doubleday. 

Partial  contents:  The  elephant's  child. — The  Overland  mail. — How  the  camel  got 
his  hump. — Story  of  Ung. — Baa,  baa,  black  sheep. — Wee  Willie  Winkie. — Recessional. — 
Fuzzy  Wuzzy. — The  English  flag. — The  ship  that  found  herself. — Children  of  the 
zodiac. — The  bridge  builders. — Our  lady  of  the  snows. — The  white  man's  burden. 

Many  pictures. 

Kipling,  Rudyard.  j  K278PU 

Puck  of  Pook's  hill.    Doubleday. 

A  midsummer  spell  cast  by  Puck  the  fairy  over  two  children  causes  them  to  meet 
romantic  characters  who  tell  them  of  thrilling  adventures  by  land  and  sea.  The  stories 
are,  Weland's  sword. — Young  men  at  the  manor. — The  knights  of  the  joyous  venture. — 
Old  men  at  Pevensey. — A  centurion  of  the  Thirtieth. — On  the  great  wall. — The  winged 
hats. — Hal  o'  the  draft. — "Dymchurch  flit." — The  treasure  and  the  law. 

Kipling,  Rudyard.  j  K278se 

Second  jungle  book.    Century. 

Contents:  How  fear  came. — The  miracle  of  Purun  Bhagat. — Letting  in  the  jungle. 
— The  undertakers. — The  king's  ankus.— Quiquern. — Red  dog. — The  spring  running. 

Stories  of  animal  life  in  the  East  Indian  forest,  in  which  the  animals  talk  together 
and  tell  the  secrets  of  the  jungle. 

Kirby,  Mary,  &  Kirby,  Elizabeth.  j  630  K28 

Aunt  Martha's  corner  cupboard.     1898.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 
About  tea,   coffee,  sugar  and  other  articles   found   in   Aunt   Martha's   coiner   cup- 
board; where  they  come  from  and  how  they  are  prepared. 

Kirk,  Mrs  Florence  (Hewitt),  comp.  j  793  K28 

Old  English  games  and  physical  exercises.    1906.     Longmans. 

Intended  primarily  for  children  in  the  elementary  schools.  Music  is  given  for  the 
games  with  songs. 

Kirk,  Mrs  Florence  (Hewitt).  j  784.8  K28 

Rhythmic  games  and  dances  for  children.     1914.     Longmans. 
Contents:     Exercises  and  games  for  children  under  five. — Games  without  music- 
Old    English    games    and    dances.— Swedish    games    and    dances.— Various    marches    and 
steps. 

Kirk,  May.    See  Scripture,  Mrs  May  (Kirk). 

Kirkland,  Elizabeth  Stansbury.  j  64I  K28d 

Dora's  housekeeping.     1899.    McClurg. 

Failures  and  successes  of  a  little  girl  who  cooks  and  keeps  house  for  her  father. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  205 

Kirkland,  Elizabeth  Stansbury.  j  942  K28 

Short  history  of  England  for  young  people   [to  1891].     1891.     Mc- 

Clurg. 

"Outlines  the  story  of  Great  Britain;  its  beginning,  its  advance,  its  development 
into  splendid  maturity. .  .Through  much  tribulation  has  England  come  to  glory.  There 
were  epochs  of  awful  blackness,  frightful  oppression,   heart-breaking  cruelty."     Author. 

Kirkland,  Elizabeth  Stansbury.  j  944  K28 

Short  history  of  France  for  young  people  [to  1880].    1898.    McClurg. 

Kirkland,  Elizabeth  Stansbury.  j  945  K28 

Short  history  of  Italy,  476-1878.     1896.     McClurg. 

Kirkland,  Elizabeth  Stansbury.  j  641  K28 

Six  little  cooks;  or,  Aunt  Jane's  cooking  class.     1891.     McClurg. 
How  Aunt  Jane  taught  six  little  girls  to  cook  all  sorts  of  good  things.     Contains 

easy  receipts  for  any  girl  to  try  at  home. 

Klickmann,  Flora,  ed.  j  646  K32 

The  little  girl's  knitting  &  crochet  book.     [1916.]     Stokes. 

Klickmann,  Flora,  ed.  j  646  K32I 

The  little  girl's  sewing  book.     [i9T5-]     Stokes. 

Directions  and  designs  for  making  a  variety  of  useful  and  fancy  articles.  Includes 
a  number  of  patterns  for  cross-stitch. 

Knapp,  Adeline.  j  K335b 

Boy  and  the  baron.    Century. 

How  Karl  the  armorer  took  the  "Shining  knight's"  treasure  from  among  the  osiers 
and  what  befell  afterward;  a  tale  of  feudal  times  in  Germany  and  of  the  conquest  of 
the  robber  barons  by  Rudolf  of  Hapsburg. 

Knipe,  Alden  Arthur.  j  K346C 

Captain  of  the  eleven.    Harper. 

Foot-ball  story. 

Knipe,  Mrs  Emilie  (Benson),  &  Knipe,  A.  A.  j  K3462I 

The  lucky  sixpence.     Century. 

"Story  of  the  American  Revolution,  in  which  an  English  orphan  girl  of  twelve  is 
sent  to  a  cousin  in  Philadelphia  on  what  proves  to  be  a  rebel  ship.  The  battle  of  Ger- 
mantown  is  fought  around  her  cousin's  home,  and  she  meets  Lord  Howe,  Washington, 
Franklin  and  the  famous  spy,  Alan  McLane."    Booklist,  1913. 

Knipe,  Mrs  Emilie  (Benson),  &  Knipe,  A.  A.  j  K3462m 

Maid  of  old  Manhattan;  illustrated  by  Emilie  Benson  Knipe.     Mac- 

millan. 

The  time  is  that  of  the  last  Dutch  governor,  Peter  Stuyvesant,  and  the  heroine  a 
young  girl,  strangely  protected  by  the  Indians,  who  renders  a  signal  service  to  the  prov- 
ince of  New  Netherlands  and  who  finally  solves  the  mystery  of  her  identity. 

Knowles,  Frederic  Lawrence,  com[>.  j  811.08  K35 

Poems  of  American  patriotism.     1913.     Page. 
Knowles,  Sir  James  Thomas,  camp.  j  398-25  K35 

Legends  of  King  Arthur  and  his  knights.     191 2.     Warm-. 

Herein  one  may  read  of  questing  beasts  and  tournament!  and  strange  enchantments, 
of  Merlin  in  his  mystic  prison  and  of  Lancelot  in  the  Chapel  Perilous,  of  the  marveloui 
adventures  of  Galahad  and  of  the  last   g  in  the  West. 

Stories  are  from  Malorv's  "Morte  Darthur"  with  a  few  additions  from  other 
sources.  First  published  in  1862  under  the  title  "Story  of  King  Arthur."  Twenty 
illustrations,  some  of  them  in  color,  by   Lancelot   Speed. 


206  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  9*6  K35 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  through  Africa.  1883.  Har- 
per.    (Boy  travellers  in  the  Far  East,  pt.5.) 

Introduces  incidents  from  many  books  of  African  travel  and  exploration.  Many 
pictures. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  9*54  K35 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  to  Ceylon  and  India,  with 

descriptions  of  Borneo,  the  Philippine  islands  and  Burmah.  1881.    Har- 
per.    (Boy  travellers  in  the  Far  East,  pt.3.) 

Descriptions  of  countries,  cities,  temples,  people,  manners  and  customs.  Many  pic- 
tures. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  916.2  K35 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  to  Egypt  and  the  Holy  Land. 
1882.    Harper.    (Boy  travellers  in  the  Far  East,  pt.4.) 

Describes  the  Suez  canal,  the  great  pyramids  of  Egypt,  the  tomb  of  the  sacred  bulls, 
a  camel  journey  to  the  island  of  Philse,  "shooting  the  rapids"  of  the  Nile,  visits  to  Jeru- 
salem, Damascus  and  many  other  interesting  places. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  9!5-2  K35 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  to  Japan  and  China.  1879. 
Harper.     (Boy  travellers  in  the  Far  East,  pt.i.) 

Such  chapter  headings  as.  Walks  and  talks  in  Tokio. — Sights  at  Enoshima. — The 
ascent  of  Fusiyama. — Wrestlers  and  theatrical  entertainments. — A  voyage  up  the  Yang- 
tse-kiang. — The  Tae-ping  rebellion. — Sights  in  Pekin. — A  journey  to  the  great  wall  of 
China. — Hong-kong  and  Canton. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  915.9  K35 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  to  Siam  and  Java,  with  de- 
scriptions of  Cochin-China,  Cambodia,  Sumatra  and  the  Malay  archi- 
pelago.    1880.     Harper.     (Boy  travellers  in  the  Far  East,  pt.2.) 

Among  other  subjects  treated  in  this  volume  are,  First  sights  and  scenes  in  Anam.- — ■ 
The  wonderful  story  of  Marco  Polo. — The  founder  of  Buddhism. — Stories  of  elephant- 
hunting. — Pearl-fishing  and  turtle-hunting. — Sumatra  and  its  peculiarities. — -Rice  culture 
in  Java. — Visiting  a  tea  plantation. — Wanderings  in  the  Malay  archipelago. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  919.3  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  Australasia.     1889.    Harper. 

The  boy  travelers  and  their  uncle  travel  through  New  Zealand  and  Australia  and 
cruise  about  among  the  islands  of  the  south  Pacific. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  914  K35D0 

Boy  travellers  in  central  Europe.     1893.    Harper. 
Travels  through  France,  Switzerland  and  Austria. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  914.2  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.     1891.     Harper. 
Describes    picturesque   Ireland,    Scotland   with   its    beautiful    scenery    and   romantic 
history,  a  journey  through  England  and  Wales,  and  visits  to  the  Hebrides  and  the  Isle 
of  Man. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  917.2  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  Mexico.    1892.    Harper. 

Describes  "the  land  of  the  Aztecs,  its  history  and  resources,  the  manners  and  cus- 
toms of  its  people,  and  the  many  curious  things  to  be  seen,  and  adventures  passed 
through,  in  a  journey  from  one  end  of  the  country  to  the  other."     Preface. 

Includes  the  republics  of  Central  America. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  207 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  914  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  northern  Europe.     1892.     Harper. 
Describes  a   journey   through    Holland,    Germany,    Denmark,    Norway   and    Sweden, 

with  visits  to  Heligoland  and  the  "land  of  the  midnight  sun."     Contains  a  great  deal  of 

information    in    regard    to    the    history,    condition,    manners    and    customs   of   the    places 

visited.     Many  illustrations. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  918  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  South  America.     1885.     Harper. 

The  boy  travelers  traverse  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  South  American  continent. 
They  cross  the  Andes,  descend  the  Maderia  and  Amazon  rivers,  navigate  the  La  Plata 
and  the  Paraguay,  and  visit  Ecuador,  Peru,  Bolivia,  Brazil,  Paraguay,  the  Argentine- 
Republic  and  Chile. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  914  K35D 

Boy  travellers  in  southern  Europe.     1894.     Harper. 

Describes  a  journey  through  Italy,  southern  France  and  Spain,  with  visits  to  Gibral- 
tar and  the  islands  of  Sicily  and  Malta. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  9147  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  the  Russian  empire.     1886.     Harper. 

Adventures  of  the  boy  travelers  on  a  journey  in  European  and  Asiatic  Russia, 
with  accounts  of  a  tour  across  Siberia,  voyages  on  the  Amoor,  Volga  and  other  rivers, 
a  visit  to  central  Asia  and  travels  among  the  exiles. 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  916.7  K35 

Boy  travellers  on  the  Congo.     1887.     Harper. 

Condensed  from  Stanley's  "Through  the  dark  continent." 

In  a  letter  to  Mr  Knox,  Stanley  says,  "Take  Frank  and  Fred  to  the  wilds  of  Africa: 
let  them  sail  the  equatorial  lakes,  travel  through  Uganda,  Unyoro,  and  other  countries 
ruled  by  dark-skinned  monarchs,  descend  the  magnificent  and  perilous  Congo,  see  the 
strange  tribes  and  people  of  that  wonderful  land,  and  repeat  the  adventures  and  dis- 
coveries that  made  my  journey  so  eventful." 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  92  0789k 

Boy's  life  of  General  Grant.     1895.     Saalfield. 

For  the  older  boys.  Plain  straightforward  account  of  the  life  of  "Unconditional 
Surrender." 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  916-6  K35 

In  wild  Africa.     1895.     Wilde.     (Travel  adventure   series.) 
The  journey  of  two  boys  and  their  uncle  across  the  Sahara  des<  rt  to  Timbuctoo 

down  the  Niger  river.     They  travel  with  a  caravan,  are  caught   in   a  sand  storm,  make 
friends  with  a  Tuareg  sheik,  ami   have  main    Othei    adventures, 

Knox,  Thomas  Wallace.  j  656.8  K35 

Life    of    Robert    Fulton    and    a    history    of    steam    navigation.       [900, 

I  'utnam. 

Not  <ndy  a  biography  of  the  man  who  designed  and  buill  the  jful  steam 

boat,  but  also  tells  about  the  great  Bteamship  companies,  the  achievements  and   failures 
of  the   "Great    I   istern,"  the   revolution   in   naval  architecture,   torpedoes  and   t< 
boats,  etc. 

Koch,  Felix  John.  j  91 7-9  K36 

Little  journey  through  the  greal  Southwest,  for  home  and  school 
and  upper  grades.     1907.     Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

[•ells  of  a  trip  from  ns  to   Los    Vngeles  and  about   the  many  quaint   and 

interesting  things  to  i><    seen,  Bucfa  as  a  i<  !"    h  famous  mines  of  Lordaburg,  an 

Indian  i eservation,  etc. 


208  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Koch,  Felix  John.  J  917-19  K36 

Little  journey  to   northern   wilds.      1908.     Flanagan.      (Library  of 

travel.) 

Describes  a  caribou  hunt  in  Newfoundland,  life  at  the  Hudson  Bay  Company  posts, 
whaling  and  sealing  voyages. 

Koch,  Felix  John.  j  917-94  K36 

Little  journey  to  our  Western  wonderland   (California),  for  home 

and  school,  intermediate  and  upper  grades;  revised  and  corrected  by 

G.W.James.    191 1.    Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

Los  Angeles,  Santa  Catalina  island,  San  Diego,  San  Francisco  and  other  interesting 

places  in  California  are  described. 

Kortrecht,  Augusta.  j  K387d 

A  Dixie  Rose.    Lippincott. 

The  "Dixie  Rose"  is  an  impetuous,  tender-hearted  little  Southern  girl  who  is  left 
an  orphan  among  kind  friends.     She  finally  finds  her  uncle  and  is  happy. 

Krapp,  George  Philip.  j  942.01  K41 

In  oldest  England.     1912.    Longmans. 

From  the  first  invasion  of  Britain  by  the  Angles  and  Saxons  to  the  battle  of  Hast- 
ings. Tells  about  their  homes  and  schools,  how  they  fought  against  the  Danes  and 
Norsemen  and  about  Caedmon  the  first  English  poet,  the  Venerable  Bede,  Dunstan,  abbot 
of  Glastonbury,  and  Alfred  the  Great. 

Krout,  Mary  Hannah.  j  919.69  K42 

Alice's  visit  to  the  Hawaiian  islands.  1900.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Ec- 
lectic school  readings.) 

The  travels  of  a  little  girl  in  the  Hawaiian  islands.  Tells  about  the  food,  houses, 
customs  and  cities  of  the  islands,  about  a  trip  to  the  great  volcano  of  Kilauea,  and  about 
Molokai,  the  leper  island. 

Kunos,  Ignacz,  comp.  qj  398  K43f 

Forty-four  Turkish  fairy  tales,  with  illustrations  by  Willy  Pogany. 
[1914?]     Harrap. 

Kunos,  Ignacz,  comp.  j  398  K43 

Turkish  fairy  tales  and  folk  tales;  tr.  from  the  Hungarian  by  R.  N. 
Bain.     1901.     Burt. 

Marvelous  stories  of  peris,  genii,  witches,  dragons  and  other  strange  creatures. 
Some  of  the  stories  are,  The  stag-prince. — Mad  Mehmed.—  The  golden-haired  children. 
— The  cinder-youth. — The  wind-demon. — The  serpent-peri  and  the  magic  mirror. — Boy- 
beautiful,  the  golden  apples  and  the  were-wolf. 

Kupfer,  Grace  H.  ed.  j  292  K43 

Stories  of  long  ago,  in  a  new  dress.     1897.    Heath. 

Greek  and  Roman  myths  told  for  children  in  a  simple,  fairy  tale  style.  Following 
many  of  the  stories  are  standard  poems  bearing  directly  on  the  subjects.  The  illustra- 
tions are  reproductions  of  famous  paintings  and  sculptures. 

Laboulaye,  fidouard.  j  398  Lufa 

Fairy  tales;  illustrated  by  A.  A.  Dixon.    Nister. 

What  happend  to  Fragolette,  the  orphan  girl  who  was  carried  away  by  a  witch; 
the  story  of  Zerbino  the  woodcutter,  the  laughing  ladies  and  the  beautiful  princess  Aleli; 
the  adventures  of  the  prince  of  Holar,  and  other  fantastic  tales  of  magic  and  enchant- 
ment. These  stories  are  also  in  the  author's  "Fairy  tales  of  all  nations"  or  "Last  fairy 
tales." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  209 

Laboulaye,  fidouard.  j  398  Ln 

Fairy  tales  of  all  nations.     1866.     Harper. 

Contents:  Perlino. — Yvon  and  Finette. — The  castle  of  life. — Destiny.— The  twelve 
months. —  Sswanda  the  piper. —  The  gold  bread. —  The  story  of  the  noses. —  The  three 
citrons. — The  story  of  Coquerico. — King  Bizarre  and  Prince  Charming. — Abdallah. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Fairy  book." 

Laboulaye,  fidouard.  j  398  Lul 

Last  fairy  tales.    1902.    Harper. 

Fantastic  stories  of  enchantments  and  old  tales  from  the  fairy  lore  of  many  coun- 
tries. Among  them  are,  The  three  wonders  of  the  world. — The  fairy  crawfish. — Frago- 
lette. — The  little  gray  man. — Gagliuso;  or,  The  good  cat. — The  spinning  queen. — The 
mystic  garden. — The  eve  of  St.   Mark. 

Laboulaye,  fidouard.  j  Lii7q 

Quest  of  the  four-leaved  clover;  a  story  of  Arabia;  adapted  from 
"Abdallah"  by  W.  T.  Field.     Ginn. 

Story  of  two  foster-brothers  and  of  Abdallah's  search  for  the  mystic  talisman,  the 
four-leaved  clover.  Gives  a  picture  of  Bedouin  life  among  the  tents,  of  city  life  and 
the  bazars,  and  of  the  mysterious  desert  with  its  half-obliterated  trails  and  its  passing 
caravans. 

Ladd,  Horatio  Oliver.  j  973.6  L13 

History  of  the  War  with  Mexico.     1883.     Dodd. 
La  Flesche,  Francis.  j  Li47m 

Middle  five;  Indian  boys  at  school.     Small. 

The  author  is  the  son  of  an  Omaha  chief.  He  tells  of  his  life  in  a  mission  school; 
how  the  boys  ran  away  to  join  the  Indians'  buffalo  hunt  and  of  other  escapades. 

La  Fontaine,  Jean  de.  j  398.91  Li4f 

Fables  choisies  pour  les  enfants,  et  illustrees  par  Boutet  de  Monvel. 

La  Fontaine,  Jean  de.  j  398.91  L14 

Original  fables;  rendered  into  English  prose  by  F.  C.  Tilney.    [1913.] 

Dent.     (Tales  for  children  from  many  lands.) 

Colored  pictures. 

La  Fontaine,  Jean  de.  j  398.91  L14S 

Select  fables;  adapted  from  the  translation  of  Elizur  Wright,  for 
the  use  of  the  young;  illustrated  by  Boutet  de  Monvel.  Soc.  for  Pro- 
moting Christian  Knowledge. 

The  grasshopper  and  the  ant. — The  frog  that  wished  to  be  as  big  as  the  ox. — The 
fox  and  the  grapes. — The  miller,  his  son  and  the  ass. — The  lion  and  the  rat. — The  wolf 
and  the  stork,  and  other  fables  told  in  verse,  with  colored  pictures  by  Boutet  de  Monvel. 

Lagerlbf,  Selma.  j  Li52f 

Further  adventures  of  Nils;  tr.  from  tin  Swedish  by  Y.  S,  Howard. 
Grosset;  Doubleday. 

Xils  talks  with  the  animals  in  the  forest  and  hears  Btrange  si.iics  ■>('  K.nr  ami 
Grayskin  and  Helpless,  the  water-snake;  he  warns  Fathei  Bear  of  danger,  saves  Gorgo, 
the  golden  eagle  from  captivity,  sees  the  city  that  floats  on  the  water,  and  many  other 
unusual  places  while  traveling  over  Sweden  with  the  wild 

Lagerlof,  Selma.  j  L152W 

Wonderful    adventures    of    Nils;    tr.    by    V.  S.    Howard.      Gros 
Doubleday. 

Of  Nils's  journey  to  Lapland  on  the  back  of  a  K<>'ise.  of  the  battle  of  the  lil.uk  rats 
ami  the  gray  rats,  of  Smirre  Fox  who  would  not  be  good,  ami  of  Sirle  Squirrel  and 
Gripe  Otter. 

The  same;  illustrated  by  M.II.  Frye.     Doubleday j  L152W2 


2io  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Lamb,  Charles.  J  883  H750I4 

Adventures  of  Ulysses.     Harper. 

"Tells  of  the  wanderings  of  Ulysses  and  his  followers  in  their  return  from  Troy, 
after  the  destruction  of  that  famous  city  of  Asia  by  the  Grecians."  Adapted  from  the 
translation  of  Chapman  which  Lamb  called  "divine." 

Lamb,  Charles,  &  Lamb,  Mary.  j  L179111 

Mrs  Leicester's  school.    Dent. 

The  "young  ladies"  at  Amwell  School,  aged  about  seven,  relate  in  turn  stories  of 
their  own  lives,  such  as  The  sailor  uncle. — The  changeling. — The  young  Mahometan. — 
The  witch  aunt. — The  sea  voyage. 

Daintily  illustrated  in  color  by  Winifred  Green. 

Lamb,  Charles,  &  Lamb,  Mary.  j  821  Li7a 

Poetry  for  children,  with  introduction  by  William  Macdonald.  1903. 
Dent.    (Works,  v.8.) 

Quaint,  old-fashioned  verses  by  "the  gentle  Elia"  and  his  sister,  such  as  The  boy  and 
the  skylark. — Queen  Oriana's  dream. — The  broken  doll. — The  magpie's  nest. — The  rook 
and  the  sparrows. — David  in  the  cave  of  Adullam. — The  rainbow. 

Also  contains  in  addition  to  the  shorter  poems  "The  king  and  queen  of  hearts," 
"Prince  Dorus"  and  "Beauty  and  the  beast." 

Lamb,  Charles,  &  Lamb,  Mary.  j  822.33  H 

Tales  from  Shakespeare.    Dutton. 

Contents:  The  tempest. — A  midsummer  night's  dream. — The  winter's  tale. — Much 
ado  about  nothing. — As  you  like  it. — The  two  gentlemen  of  Verona. — The  merchant  of 
Venice. — Cymbeline. — King  Lear. — Macbeth. — All's  well  that  ends  well. — The  taming  of 
the  shrew. — The  comedy  of  errors. — Measure  for  measure. — Twelfth  night;  or.  What 
you  will. — Timon  of  Athens. — Romeo  and  Juliet. — Hamlet,  prince  of  Denmark. — Othello. 
— Pericles,  prince  of  Tyre. 

The  same;  illustrated  by  N.  M.  Price.     Scribner j  822.33  H 

The  same.    Crowell j  822.33  H 

Colored  pictures  by  Gertrude  D.  Hammond. 

La  Motte-Fouque,  Friedrich  Heinrich  Karl,  baron  de.  j  L194S 

Sintram  &  his  companions;  tr.  by  A.  C.  Farquharson,  with  a  frontis- 
piece from  an  engraving  by  Albrecht  Diirer  &  illustrations  by  E.  J. 
Sullivan.    Methuen. 

Weird  and  fantastic  tale  of  a  knight  of  old  who  battles  with  the  powers  of  evil. 
The  story  was  suggested  by  Diirer's  famous  picture,  "The  knight,  Death  and  the  Devil." 

La  Motte-Fouque,  Friedrich  Heinrich  Karl,  baron  de.  qj  L194U4 

Undine;  adapted  from  the  German  by  W.  L.  Courtney  and  illustrated 
by  Arthur  Rackham.     Heinemann. 

Romantic  tale  of  the  knight  Huldbrand,  who  ventured  alone  into  a  haunted  forest 
and  there  met  and  wedded  a  water-nymph.  The  pictures  are  in  color  and  suggest  an 
atmosphere  of  mystery  and  enchantment. 

The  same;  told  to  the  children  by  Mary  MacGregor.  Jack.  (Told 
to  the  children  series.) j  L194U2 

Colored  pictures. 

Lamprey,  L.  j  Li9gi 

In  the  days  of  the  guild.     Stokes. 

One  may  read  here  how  Guy,  the  goldsmith's  apprentice,  won  the  desire  of  his  heart; 
how  Nicholas  Gay,  the  merchant's  son,  kept  faith  with  a  stranger  and  served  the  king; 
how  Barbara  sold  geese  in  the  Chepe  and  what  fortune  she  found  there;  and  how  Mary 
Lavender  came  to  be  of  service  to  an  exiled  queen.  The  book  also  contains  18  other 
stories  telling  of  mediaeval  life  in  the  time  of  Henry  II  of  England,  a  poem  for  each 
story,  and  pictures  in  black  and  white  and  in  color. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Lane,  Charles  Hour)-.  j  636.7  L23 

All  about  dogs.     1900.     Lane. 

Describes  many  varieties,  including  dogs  used  in  sport,  dogs  used  in  work,  per- 
forming and  toy  breeds.  Includes  anecdotes  of  dogs  and  a  chapter  on  "Humours  and 
vagaries  of  the  show  rings."     Illustrated. 

Lane,  Martha  Allen  Luther,  ed.  j  604  L23 

Industries  of  to-day.     1904.     Ginn.     (Youth's  companion  series.) 

Contents:  Cod  and  cod  fishing,  by  G.  B.  Putnam. — Ranch  life,  by  H.  H.  Jackson. — 
Peanut  growing,  by  G.  B.  Spear. — A  winter  harvest,  by  J.  E.  Chamberlin. — California 
raisin  making,  by  Elias  Longley. — A  crop  of  cranberries,  by  Alice  Brown. — A  maple- 
sugar  camp,  by  Ruth  Russ. — Among  the  pines,  by  Mrs  H.  G.  Rowe. — How  matches  are 
made,  by  G.  A.  Stockwell. — How  soap  is  made,  by  P.  H.  Walsh. — How  pins  are  made,  by 
Harry  Piatt. — The  use  of  natural  gas,  by  Kirk  Munroe. — Adobe  and  its  uses,  by  S.  \V. 
Kellogg. — The  making  of  fireworks,  by  Edward  Marshall. — In  an  ice  factory,  by  T.  C. 
Harris. — A  Boston  market,  by  Alice   Brown. — The  morning  paper,  by  Harold   Frederic. 

Lane,  Martha  Allen  Luther.  j  3724  L23 

Oriole  stories  for  beginners.     1902.    Ginn. 

Primer.     The  continuity  of  the  story  is  a  special  feature. 
Lane,  Martha  Allen  Luther,  ed.  j  918  L23 

Strange  lands  near  home.    1902.    Ginn.     (Youth's  companion  series.) 

Short  articles  on  Mexico,  the  Arctic  regions,  the  West  Indies  and  the  little  known 
cities  and  countries  of  South  America,  reprinted  from  the  "Youth's  companion."  Among 
them  are  descriptions  of  a  carnival  in   Lima,  a   Venezuelan  railway   and  the   Argentine 

capital. 

Lane,  Martha  Allen  Luther,  ed.  j  609  L23 

Triumphs  of  science.     1903.     Ginn.     (Youth's  companion  series.) 

Contents:  The  story  of  the  Atlantic  cable,  by  C.  W.  Field. — A  modern  observatory, 
by  E.  S.  Holden. — Astronomical  photography,  by  C.  A.  Young. — The  lighting  of  our 
coast,  by  L.  L.  Sibley. — Modern  great  guns,  by  J.  B.  Briggs. — Submarine  boats,  by 
J.  D.  J.  Kelley.— How  war  ships  are  built,  by  H.  A.  Herbert. — The  Boston  subway. — The 
St.  Clair  tunnel,  by  H.  G.  Prout. — Harnessing  Niagara,  by  Curtis  Brown. — Where  rail- 
1  roads  go,  by  J.  L.  Harbour. — Artesian  wells,  by  S.  G.  W.  Benjamin. — The  mariners' 
compass,  by  James  Parton. 

Lane,  Martha  Allen  Luther,  ed.  j  9H  L23 

Under  sunny  skies.     1904.     Ginn.     (Youth's  companion  series.) 

The  lands  under  the  "sunny  skies"  are  Spain,  Italy,  Greece,  Turkey  and  Africa. 
Tells  about  a  trip  across  the  Sahara  desert,  the  chestnut  farms  of  Italy,  the  city  of  St. 
Mark,  the  macaroni  country,  etc. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  L238a 

Animal  story  book.    Longmans. 

Entertaining  stories,  mainly  true,  of  dogs,  horses,  bears,  monkeys,  rats,  snakes,  ants, 
dolphins  and  many  other  creatures. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23 

Blue  fairy  book.     Longmans. 

Favorite   collection    of   standard    fairy    tales,    including    Little    Red    Riding   Hood. — 
Sleeping  beauty. — Snow-white  and  Rose-red. — Aladdin  and  the  wonderful  lamp. — Prince 
Darling. — The  story  of  pretty  Goldilocks,  and  many  others. 
Lang,  Andrew,  comp.  j  821.08  L23b 

Blue  poetry  book.    1896.    Longmans 

Old  ballads,  war-song^  and  wonder  poems. 
Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  9°4  L23b 

Blue  true  story  book;  adapted  for  school  use.     [905.     Longmans. 

Contents:    The  story  of  Grace  Darling.-    An  artist's  adventure.    -The  tale  of   I 
dula  and  Rorke'a  Drift.— The  worthy  enterprise  of  J<  in  Englishman,  in  delivei 

ing  two  hundred  and  sixty-six  Christians  out  of  the  captivity  of  the  Turks  at  Alexandria, 
3d  January  1577. — The  chevalier  Johnstone's  escape  from  Cullodcn. — The  conquest  ol 
Montezuma's  empire. 


212  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398-2  L23 

Book  of  romance.     1902.    Longmans. 

Contains  stories  of  King  Arthur  and  his  knights,  Robin  Hood,  Grettir  the  Strong, 
Roland,  Wayland  the  Smith,  William  Short  Nose  and  Diarmid.     Many  pictures. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23br 

Brown  fairy  book.     1904.     Longmans. 

From  Indian,  Australian,  African,  Persian,  Brazilian  and  other  sources. 

Partial  contents:  What  the  rose  did  to  the  cypress. — Father  Grumbler. — The  cun- 
ning hare. — The  turtle  and  his  bride. — The  wicked  wolverine. — The  husband  of  the  rat's 
daughter. — The  mermaid  and  the  boy. — The  sister  of  the  sun. — The  fox  and  the  Lapp. — 
The  lion  and  the  cat. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23C 

Cinderella,  and  other  stories;  prepared  for  the  use  of  schools  from 

the  Blue  fairy  book.     1913.     Longmans. 

Other  stories:     Rumpelstiltzkin. — The  master  cat;  or,  Puss  in  boots. — Why  the  sea 

is  salt. — Little  Thumb. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed. 

Dick  Whittington,  and  other  stories.  See  his  History  of  Whitting- 
ton,  and  other  stories. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 
Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23g 

Green  fairy  book.     Longmans. 

Among  other  delightful  stories,  one  may  read  The  blue  bird. — Story  of  Caliph 
Stork. — Heart  of  ice. — The  enchanted  ring. — Story  of  the  three  bears. — Little  One-eye, 
Little  Two-eyes  and  Little  Three-eyes. — The  twelve  huntsmen. — Story  of  the  fisherman 
and  his  wife. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23h 

History  of  Jack  the  Giant-killer,  and  other  stories;  based  on  the  tales 
in  the  Blue  fairy  book.     Longmans. 

Other  stories:    Prince  Hyacinth. — Beauty  and  the  beast. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23hi 

History  of  Whittington,  and  other  stories;  based  on  the  tales  in  the 
Blue  fairy  book.    Longmans. 

_  Other  stories:      The   goose-girl. — Trusty   John. — The    forty   thieves. — The    Master- 
maid. — Aladdin  and  the  wonderful  lamp. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Dick  Whittington,  and  other  stories." 
Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23H 

Lilac  fairy  book.    1910.    Longmans. 

Includes  three  stories  from  the  Mabinogion  and  four — "How  brave  Walter  hunted 
wolves,"  "Little  Lasse,"  "The  sea  king's  gift,"  and  "The  raspberry  worm"— retold  from 
the  Swedish  of  Zacharias  Topelius.     Pictures  by  H.  J.  Ford. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23I 

Little  Red  Riding-hood,  and  other  stories;  based  on  the  tales  in  the 

Blue  fairy  book.     Longmans. 

Other  stories:  Toads  and  diamonds. — Snow-white  and  Rose-red. — Hansel  and  Gret- 
tel. — Brave  little  tailor. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  3g8.8  L23 

Nursery  rhyme  book.     1897.    Warne. 
Many  pictures  by  L.  L.  Brooke. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  3g8  l23P 

Pink  fairy  book.    Longmans. 

Another  book  of  stories  about  witches,  giants,  mermaids  and  other  weird  creatures; 
fairy  tales  that  the  Japanese,  Germans,  Danes  and  other  far-off  people  tell  their  children. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  213 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  J  398  L23pr 

Prince  Darling,  and  other  stories;  based  on  the  tales  in  the  Blue 

fairy  book.    Longmans. 

Other  stories:     The   white   cat. — The   wonderful   sheep. — The   yellow   dwarf. — The 

story  of  Prince  Ahmed  and  the  fairy  Paribanou. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23pri 

The  princess  on  the  glass  hill,  and  other  stories;  based  on  the  tales 
in  the  Blue  fairy  book.    Longmans. 

Other  stories:  The  terrible  head. — Felicia  and  the  pot  of  pinks. — The  water-lily. — 
Blue  Beard. — Story  of  pretty  Goldilocks. — Tale  of  a  youth  who  set  out  to  learn  what 
fear  was. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23r 

Red  fairy  book.     Longmans. 

Fairy  tales  from  the  Norse,  French  and  German.  Includes  Princess  Mayblossom. — 
Graciosa  and  Percinet. — The  six  sillies. — The  true  history  of  little  Goldenhood. — Farmer 
Weatherbeard. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  904  L23r 

Red  true  story  book.     1904.    Longmans. 

Contents:  Wilson's  last  fight. — The  life  and  death  of  Joan  the  Maid. — How  the 
Bass  was  held  for  King  James. — The  crowning  of  Ines  de  Castro. — The  story  of  Orthon. 
— How  Gustavus  Vasa  won  his  kingdom. — Monsieur  de  Bayard's  duel. — Story  of  Gud- 
brand  of  the  Dales. — Sir  Richard  Grenville. — The  story  of  Molly  Pitcher. — The  voyages, 
dangerous  adventures  and  imminent  escapes  of  Capt.  Richard  Falconer. — Marbot's  march. 

Eylau;   the  mare  Lisette. — How  Marbot  crossed  the   Danube. — The  piteous   death   of 

Gaston,  son  of  the  count  of  Foix. — Rolf  Stake. — The  wreck  of  the  Wager. — Peter  Wil- 
liamson.— A  wonderful  voyage. — The  Pitcairn  islanders. — A  relation  of  three  years'  suf- 
fering of  Robert  Everard  upon  the  island  of  Assada,  near  Madagascar,  in  a  voyage  to 
India,  1686. — The  fight  at  Svolder  island. — The  death  of  Hacon  the  Good. — Prince  Char- 
lie's war. — The  Burke  and  Wills  exploring  expedition. — The  story  of  Emund. — The  man 
in  white. — The  adventures  of  the  Bull  of  Earlstoun. — The  story  of  Grisell  Baillie's 
sheep's  head. — The  conquest  of  Peru. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  904  L23 

True  story  book.    1910.    Longmans. 

Contents:  A  boy  among  the  red  Indians. — Casanova's  escape. — Adventures  on  the 
Findhorn. — Story  of  Grace  Darling. — The  "Shannon"  and  the  "Chesapeake." — Captain 
Snelgrave  and  the  pirates. — The  Spartan  three  hundred. — Prince  Charlie's  wanderings. 

Two    great    matches. — Story    of    Kaspar    Hauser. — An    artist's    adventure. — Tale    of 

Isandhlwana  and  Rorke's  Drift. — How  Leif  the  Lucky  found  Vineland  the  Good. — The 
escapes  of  Cervantes. — The  worthy  enterprise  of  John  Foxe. — Baron  Trenck. — Adven- 
ture of  John  Rawlins.— Chevalier  Johnstone's  escape  from  Culloden. — Adventures  of 
Lord  Pitsligo. — Escape  of  Caesar  Borgia  from  the  castle  of  Medina  del  Campo. — The  kid- 
napping of  the  princes. — The  conquest  of  Montezuma's  empire. — Adventures  of  Bar- 
tholomew Portugues,  a  pirate. — The  return  of  the  French   freebooters. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23V 

Violet  fairy  book.     1901.    Longmans. 

Includes  some  of  the  less  familiar  fairy  stories  chosen,  as  in  the  other  volumes  of 
the  series,  from  many  sources  and  illustrated  by   II.  J.    Ford. 

Lang,  Andrew,  ed.  j  398  L23y 

Yellow  fairy  book.     Longmans. 

Collected   from   Russian,   German,   French,    Icelandic   and   Indian   folk-lore   talcs. 

Partial  contents:  The  six  swans. —The  dragon  of  the  North. — The  iron  stove. — The 
donkey  cabbage. — The  little  green  frog. — The  invisible  prince. — The  glass  mountain. — 
The  three  brothers. — The  magic  ring. — The  flying  ship. — Blockhead  Hans. 

Lang,  Mrs  Andrew.    See  Lang,  Mrs  Leonora  Blanche. 


2i4  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Lang,  Georg.  J  83i  L23 

Wie  das  samenkorn  zu  brot  wird;  bilder  von  Otto  Kubel,  text  von 

Georg  Lang. 

Lang,  Jean.  J  883  H75ola 

Stories   from   the    Odyssey,   told   to   the    children   by   Jeanie    Lang. 

[1907?]    Jack.     (Told  to  the  children  series.) 

Adventures  of  Ulysses  and  his  warriors  after  the  fall  of  Troy. 

Lang,  Jean.  J  92  R534I 

Story  of  Robert  the  Bruce,  with  pictures  by  F.  M.  B.  Blaikie. 
[1907.]     Jack.     (Children's  heroes  series.) 

Life  of  the  hero  king,  telling  how  he  and  his  dauntless  little  band  of  patriot 
warriors  won  the  independence  of  Scotland. 

Lang,  John.  J  9104  L23 

Gibraltar  and  the  West  Indies;  or,  Outposts  of  empire,  with  repro- 
ductions from  original  drawings  in  colour  by  J.  R.  Skelton.  [1909?] 
Stokes.     (Romance  of  history.) 

Main  theme  is  the  development  of  England's  sea  power.  The  first  64  pages  deal 
with,  Gibraltar,  its  capture  from  Spain  and  the  sieges  of  1704,  1727  and  1779-83-  A 
chapter  on  Malta  follows,  describing  particularly  its  heroic  defense  against  the  Turks 
in  1565,  and  for  the  rest  of  the  book  the  author  has  drawn  upon  the  romance  of  the 
Spanish  main — the  history  of  Jamaica,  the  wild  deeds  of  the  buccaneers,  the  exploits  of 
Benbow,  Vernon  and  Rodney. 

Lang,  John.  j  92  C774I 

Story  of  Captain  Cook.     [1906.]     Jack.     (Children's  heroes  series.) 

Capt.  Cook's  search  for  the  "Great  Unknown  Land"  and  the  Northwest  passage  and 
his  adventures  among  the  South  sea  cannibals. 

Lang,  Mrs  Leonora  Blanche.  j  L23ga 

All  sorts  of  stories  book;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     Longmans. 

"  'The  story  of  the  gold  beetle'  is  an  abridgment  of  Poe's  'Gold  bug.'  The  other 
tales  are  taken  from  The  three  musketeers,  The  count  of  Monte  Cristo,  Drake's  Indian 
captivities,  from  mythology,  folklore  and  history.  Among  the  historical  stories  are  ac- 
counts of  Alexander  Selkirk,  Charles  II  and  the  oak  tree,  Loreta  Velasquez,  who  served 
as  a  Confederate  soldier,  and  other  persons  whose  adventures  were  exciting  in  the  ex- 
treme."    Booklist,  l<)12. 

Lang,  Mrs  Leonora  Blanche.  j  922  L23 

Book  of  saints  and  heroes;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     1912.     Longmans. 

Contents:  The  first  of  the  hermits. — The  roses  from  paradise. — The  saint  with  the 
lion. — Synesius,  the  ostrich  hunter. — The  struggles  of  St.  Augustine. — Germanus  the 
governor. — Malchus  the  monk. — The  saint  on  the  pillar. — The  apostle  of  Northumbria. — 
St.  Columba. — Brendan  the  sailor. — The  charm  queller. — Dunstan  the  friend  of  kings. — - 
St.  Margaret  of  Scotland. — St.  Elizabeth  of  Hungary. — Saint  and  king. — The  preacher 
to  the  birds. — Richard  the  bishop. — Colette. — The  apostle  of  the  Japanese. — The  servant 
of  the  poor. — The  founder  of  hospitals. — The  patron  saint  of  England. 

Lang,  Mrs  Leonora  Blanche.  j  920  L23 

Red  book  of  heroes;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.     1909.     Longmans. 

Contents:  Thelady-in-chief  [Florence  Nightingale].- — Prisoners  and  captives  [John 
Howard]. — Hannibal. — The  apostle  of  the  lepers  [Father  Damien]. — The  constant  prince 
[Ferdinand  of  Portugal]. — The  marquis  of  Montrose. — A  child"s  hero  [Henry  Havelock]. 
— Conscience  or  king?  [Sir  Thomas  More]. — The  little  abbess  [Angelique  Arnauld]. — ■ 
Gordon. — The  crime   of  Theodosius. — Palissy  the  potter. 

Lankester,  Sir  Edwin  Ray.  j  560  L26 

Extinct  animals.     1905.     Holt. 

The  Christmas  juvenile  lectures  at  the  Royal  Institution,  1903-04. 
Describes  many  extinct  animals — -reptiles,  fish,  birds  and  four-footed  beasts.     Illus- 
trated by  photographs  taken  from  actual  specimens. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  215 

Lansing,  Marion  Florence.  j  398.2  L28 

Page,  esqnire  and  knight;  a  book  of  chivalry.     1910.     Ginn.     (Open 

road  library  of  juvenile  literature.) 

Contents:     Tales  of  King   Arthur's  court. — Tales  of  Charlemagne  and   his  peers. — 

Godfrey,  a  knight  of  the  crusades. — The  order  of  St.  George. — Chevalier  Bayard. — S"iii;-> 

of  chivalry. 

"Notes,"  p.  179-182. 

Lansing,  Marion  Florence,  comp.  j  793.1  L28 

Quaint  old  stories  to  read  and  act.  1912.  Ginn.  (Open  road  library 
of  juvenile  literature.) 

Contents:  The  wise  men  of  Gotham. — The  sparrow  and  the  crow. — -Scandal. — 
Belling  the  cat. — The  woodcutter  and  the  fairy.— The  hedgehog. — Seeing  the  world. — 
The  cock  and  the  fox. — The  discontented  blacksmith. — How  Claus  won  the  princess. — 
At  the  owl's  school. — The  lambikin. — The  poor  man  and  the  rich  man. — -One  minute  at 
a  time. — What  the  goodman  does  is  always  right. — The  man's  boot. — Peasie  and  Bean- 
sie. — Tom  Tit  Tot. — Sheik  Chilli. — The  rich  man's  guest. — The  Brahman,  the  tiger  and 
the  six  judges. — The  travelers  and  the  hatchet.  —The  silly  old  man. — Sir  Bumble.— 
News. — The  stone  of  gratitude. — The  flight  of  the  beasts. — The  Barmecide  feast.— 
Little  Bess,  the  ballad  girl. 

"Notes,"  p.175-177- 
Lansing,  Marion  Florence,  camp.  j  398  L28r 

Rhymes  and  stories.  1907.  Ginn.  (Open  road  library  of  juvenile 
literature.) 

Contains  Mother  Goose  rhymes  and  some  of  the  children's  favorite  nonsense  stories 
and  nursery  tales,  such  as  Three  billy  goats  gruff. — Chicken  Little. — The  three  bears. — 
The  little  red  hen. — -The  pancake. 

La  Ramee,  Louisa  de.    Sec  Ramee,  Louisa  de  la. 

Lamed,  Josephus  Nelson.  j  942  L32 

History  of  England  [to  1915],  for  the  use  of  schools  and  academies. 
1915.     Houghton. 

Outline  of  the  principal  events  in  the  history  of  the  English  people  and  the  British 
nation,  with  maps  and  illustrations.  The  appendix  contains  a  list  of  "Illustrative  fiction 
in  poetry  and  prose." 

Lawler,  Thomas  Bona  venture.  j  9731  L41 

Story  of  Columbus  and  Magellan.     1905.     Ginn. 

"The  discovery  of  America  by  Columbus  and  the  passage  of  Magellan's  ship  around 
the  globe... are  the  two  greatest  deeds  in  the  history  of  geography. .  .In  this  small  vol- 
ume the  author  has  tried  to  picture  a  few  of  the  stirring  events  of  those  epoch  making 
days."     Preface. 

Lawrence,  Mary  Stebbins.  j  996-9  L42 

Old  time  Hawaiians  and  their  work.     191 2.    Ginn. 

Contents:    Voyages  of  long  ago. — Work  and  play  of  long  ago.— Famous  Hawaiian!. 

Describes  primitive  customs  of  the  Hawaiian-.,  their  grass  houses,  theii  dress,  food 
and  games.  Some  of  the  famous  Hawaiians  of  whom  the  book  tells  are  Kamebameha 
the  Great,  who  united  the  islands;    Kalanimoku,   called   the   "Iron    Cable   of    Hawaii;" 

Kamehameha   II.      1 verthrew  idolatry;  and   Bernice   Pauahi,  the  princess  who  might 

have  been  queen.     Pictures  of  Hawaiian  canoes,  fin    sticks,  gourde,  calabashes,  baskets, 

mats,  etc. 

Lawson,  William  I'inkncy.  j  634.9  M2 

The  log  of  a  timber  cruiser.     1915.     Duffield. 

Interesting  record  of  six  months'  work  in  timbei  estimating  and  topographs  al  map- 
ping with  the  I'm-  1    in  the  mountaii  rn  \<  ■■■■    Mexico. 

Leamy,  Edmund.  J  L454g 

The  golden  spears,  and  other  fairy  tales.    FitzGerald. 
Othtr  fairy  tales:    The  house  in  the  lake.     The  enchanted  cave,      ["he  but  I 

son.-   I  1  if  little  white  cat.     Princess   Pinola  and  the  dwarf. 


216  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Lear,  Edward.  i  827  M5b2 

Book  of  nonsense,  to  which  is  added  More  nonsense.     1914-    Warne. 
Humorous  pictures  and  verses. 

"There   was   an    Old   Derry    down    Derry, 
Who  loved  to  see  little  folks  merry ; 
So  he  made  them  a  book, 
And  with  laughter  they  shook 
At  the  fun  of  that  Derry  down  Derry." 
Lear,  Edward.  J  827  L45110S 

Nonsense  ABC's;  verses  by  Edward  Lear,  pictures  by  M.  L.  and 
W.  C.  Wheeler.     1918.    Rand.     (Bye-lo  series.) 

Lear,  Edward.  J  827  L45 

Nonsense  books.    4v.  in  1.     1907.     Little. 

Contents:  A  book  of  nonsense. — Nonsense  songs,  stories,  botany  and  alphabets. — 
More  nonsense  pictures,  rhymes,  botany,  etc. — Laughable  lyrics. 

All  about  the  dong  with  a  luminous  nose,  the  courtship  of  the  Yonghi-bonghy  Bo, 
the  pobble  who  has  no  toes,  the  Akond  of  Swat  and  the  Quangle  Wangle  whose 

"face  you  could  not  see, 
On  account  of  his  Beaver  Hat." 

With  the  original  illustrations  by  Mr  Lear  and  an  account  of  his  life. 
Lear,  Edward.  j  827  L45no2 

Nonsense  songs.    Warne. 

Nineteen  of  Lear's  classic  nonsense  poems,  including  The  Jumblies. — The  owl  and 
the  pussy-cat. — The  dong  with  a  luminous  nose. — The  pelican  chorus. — The  pobble  who 
has  no  toes. — The  Quangle  Wangle's  hat. 

Humorous  pictures  in  color  and  in  black  and  white  by  L.  L.  Brooke. 

"Far  and  few,  far  and  few, 
Are  the  lands  where  the  Jumblies  live; 
Their  heads  are  green,  and  their  hands  are  blue, 
And  they  went  to  sea  in  a  Sieve." 

From  The  Jumblies. 

Lebesque,  Octave.    Sec  Montorgueil,  Georges,  pseud. 

Lechler,  Cornelie.  j  831  L48 

Blatt  fiir  blatt;  ein  bilderbuch  fur  kleine  leute;  6  feine  aquarelle  und 
zahlreiche  textabbildungen  nach  originalen  von  Oskar  Pletsch,  text 
von  Cornelie  Lechler. 

Lechler,  Cornelie.  j  833  L48 

Wie's  im  hause  geht;  erzahlungen  und  gedichte  fiir  kinder  von  Cor- 
nelie Lechler,  mit  6  farbdruck-  und  vielen  textbildern  nach  original- 
zeichnungen  von  Oscar  Pletsch. 

Lee,  Albert,  comp.  j  796.4  L52 

Track  athletics  in  detail.    1896.    Harper. 

Descriptions  of  track  and  field  sports  intended  to  aid  those  who  cannot  have  per- 
sonal instruction.  Chapters  on  bicycling  for  men  and  women  are  included.  Author  was 
(1895-97)  the  editor  of  "Interscholastic  sport"  in  "Harper's  round  table." 

Lee,  Yan  Phou.  j  gI5.i  L52 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  China.  1887.  Lothrop.  (Children  of  other 
lands  books.) 

Description  of  home  life  in  China. 

Partial  contents:  Chinese  cookery.— Games  and  pastimes.— Schools  and  school  life. 
— Chinese   holidays. — Stories  and  story-tellers. — How   I  went  to   Shanghai. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  217 

Lefevre,  Felicite.  j  398  L53 

The  cock,  the  mouse  and  the  little  red  hen.     [1907.]     Jacobs. 

An  old  tale  retold,  with  colored  pictures. 

Leith,  Mrs  Disney.  j  914.91  L56 

Iceland,  with  water-colour  illustrations  by  M.  A.  Wemyss  and  the 
author.     1909.     Black.     (Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

The  discovery  and  early  history  of  Iceland  and  how  the  people  of  to-day  live  in  this 
strange  and  mysterious  land  of  lava  fields,  steaming  geysers  and  icy  "jokulls." 

Leith,  Mrs  Mary  Charlotte  Julia  (Gordon).    See  Leith,  Mrs  Disney. 

Le  Row,  Caroline  Bigelow,  comp.  j  808.8  L63 

Pieces  for  every  occasion.     1901.     Hinds. 

Contents:  Miscellaneous. — Concert  recitations. — Selections  for  musical  accompnni- 
ment. — Poets'  birthdays. — Temperance. — The  seasons. — Flowers. — Lincoln's  birthday. — 
Washington's  birthday. — Arbor  day. — Decoration  day. — Flag  day. — July  Fourth. — Labor 
day. — Thanksgiving. — Christmas. — New  Years. 

Lester,  Katherine  Morris.  j  731  L65 

Clay  work;  a  handbook  for  teachers.     1908.     Manual  Arts  Press. 
Detailed  description  of  the  processes  of  clay  modeling  with  suggestive  designs  and 

illustrations  from  photographs. 

Lever,  Charles.  j  L664C 

Charles  O'Malley.    Burt. 

Adventures  of  an  Irish  dragoon  in  the  Peninsular  campaign  under  Lord  Welling- 
ton.    Full  of  accounts  of  daring  exploits. 

"Here  is  every  species  of  diversion;  duels  and  steeplechase;  practical  jokes  at  col- 
lege (good  practical  jokes,  not  booby  traps  and  apple  pie  beds)  ;  here  is  fighting  in  the 
Peninsula.  If  any  student  is  in  doubt,  let  him  try  Chapter  XIV,  the  battle  of  the  Duoro. 
This  is,  indeed,  excellent  military  writing."     Andrew  Lang. 

Levi,  Hedwig.  j  790  L66 

Work  and  play  for  little  girls.     1912.     Duffield. 

Directions  for  making  simple  and  inexpensive  presents,  match-box  doll's  furniture 
and  things  for  the  Christmas  tree. 

Lewes,  Mrs  Mary  Ann  (Evans).    See  Eliot,  George,  pseud. 

Library  of  work  and  play.    See  Children's  library  of  work  and  play. 

Lillie,  Mrs  Lucy  Cecil  (White).  j  780  L69 

Story  of  music  and  musicians  for  young  readers.     1886.     Harper. 

The  simplest  rules  for  musical  art  are  given,  the  history  of  the  pianoforte  is  out- 
lined, and  stories  of  the  famous  musicians  are  told. 

Lincoln,  Abraham.  j  815  L71 

Early  speeches   [and  other  addresses].     1903.     Doubleday.     (Little 

masterpieces.) 

Other  addresses :  Springfield  speech. — Cooper  Union  speech. — Inaugural  addresses. 
— Gettysburg  address. — Selected  letters. — Lincoln's  last  speech. 

Linderman,  Frank  Bird.  j  398.097  L71 

Indian  why  stories;  sparks  from  War  Eagle's  lodge-fire;  illustrated 
by  CM.  Russell,  the  cowboy  artist.     191 5.     Scribner. 

Stories  told  by  the  Blackfoot,  Chippewa  and  Cree  Indians  of  the  strange  doings  of 
Old-man,  or  Napa.  Some  of  the  titles  are,  Why  the  chipmunk's  back  is  striped. — How 
the  ducks  got  their  fine  feathers. — Why  the  curlew's  bill  is  long  and  crooked.  1 !  v 
the  utter  skin  became  great  "medicine." 

Lindsay,  Charles  Harcourt  Ainslie  Forbes-. 

Captain  John  Smith.    See  his  John  Smith,  gentleman  adventurer. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 


218  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Lindsay,  Charles  Harcourt  Ainslie  Forbes-.  j  92  B631I 

Daniel  Boone,  backwoodsman.     1909.     Lippincott. 

Story  biography  of  the  daring  pioneer  and  Indian  fighter.  The  settlement  of  Ken- 
tucky, Boone's  capture  by  the  Indians  and  his  escape,  the  siege  of  Boonesborough,  the 
battle  of  the  Blue  Licks,  and  other  events  of  border  warfare  days  are  described. 

Lindsay,  Charles  Harcourt  Ainslie  Forbes-.  j  92  S652I 

John  Smith,  gentleman  adventurer.  1907.  Lippincott. 
Biography  of  John  Smith  in  story  form.  Presents  vividly  the  wild  life  of  the  days 
when  the  battles  of  nations  were  fought  by  mercenaries,  when  sailors  were  patriots  and 
pirates  and  when  to  be  a  foreigner  was  to  be  an  enemy.  John  Smith,  a  man  of  noble 
action  and  of  honorable  life,  is  the  hero  of  the  Jamestown  colony,  the  connecting  link 
between  the  Old  World  and  the  New. 

Lindsay,  Maud,  &  Poulsson,  Emilie.  j  L722J 

Joyous  travelers;  illustrated  by  W.  M.  Berger.     Lothrop. 

A  squire  there  was  and  his  lady,  a  farmer,  a  young  lord,  a  chapman  with  his  pack, 
two  sisters  young  and  fair,  and  other  "joyous  travelers  ;"  and,  as  they  journeyed  to- 
gether, first  one  and  then  another  told  a  tale  to  please  the  squire's  little  son. 

The  verses  are  by  Emilie  Poulsson  and  the  stories  by  Maud  Lindsay. 

Lindsay,  Maud.  j  372.2  L72111 

More  mother  stories.     1908.     Bradley. 

Partial  contents:  Wishing  wishes. — Irmgard's  cow. — Hans  and  his  dog. — Patties 
new  dress.- — The  birthday  present.- — The  little  shepherd. — The  broken  window  pane. — 
The  stepping  stones. — Dumpy  the  pony. — Mrs  Specklety  Hen. — The  white  dove. — The 
Christmas  cake. 

Lindsay,  Maud.  j  372.2  L72 

Mother  stories.     1900.    Bradley. 

Contents:  The  wind's  work. — Mrs  Tabby  Gray. — -Fleet  Wing  and  Sweet  Voice. — 
The  little  girl  with  the  light. — The  little  gray  pony. — How  the  home  was  built. — The  little 
traveler. — The  open  gate. — Inside  the  garden  gate.— The  journey.— Giant  Energy  and 
Fairy  Skill. — The  search  for  a  good  child. — The  closing  door. — The  minstrel's  song. — 
Dust  under  the  rug. — The  story  of  Gretchen. — The  king's  birthday. 

Lindsay,  Maud.  j  L722S 

A  story  garden  for  little  children.     Lothrop. 
Twenty  short  stories  of  child  life  for  home  and  school  use.     Illustrated. 

[Linscott,  Robert  Newton,  ed.]  j  904  L72 

Boys'  book  of  battles,  with  illustrations  from  famous  paintings. 
1914.     Houghton. 

"From  a  victory  of  Rameses  II  to  an  aeroplane  battle  of  the  present  war,  describes 
about  forty  world  battles.  Selections  are  taken  from  contemporary  records,  great  his- 
tories, novels  and  poems.  They  emphasize  for  the  most  part  heroic  and  manly  virtues; 
something  of  the  suffering  entailed  by  war  on  the  people  is  also  shown.  For  older 
boys  and  girls."     Booklist,  1915. 

Lippincott,  Mrs  Sara  Jane  (Clarke).     See  Greenwood,  Grace,  pseud. 
Litchfield,  Mary  E.  j  293  L73 

The  nine  worlds;  stories  from  Norse  mythology.     1899.     Ginn. 

Tales  of  the  Norse  gods  Odin,  Loki  and  Thor,  and  of  the  dwarfs  and  giants  that 
peopled  the  "nine  worlds"  of  our  northern  ancestors. 

j  92  F866 
Little  flowers  of  St.  Francis  of  Assisi;  tr.  from  the  Italian  by  T.  W. 
Arnold.     1908.     Chatto. 

"In  this  book  are  found  certain  little  Flowers,  Miracles  and  devout  ensamples  of 
the  glorious  poor  little  one  of  Christ,  S.  Francis,  and  of  certain  of  his  holy  Companions." 

Many  illustrations,  some  of  them  in  color,  taken  from  famous  paintings  and  frescos 
and  from  old  manuscripts. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  219 

Livingston,  Mrs  Margaret  Yere  (  Farrington).    See  Farrington,  Margaret 
Vere. 

Livy.     History  of  Rome.    For  adaptation  see 

Church,  A.  J.  ed.     Stories  from  Livy j  878  L75S 

Lockhart,  John  Gibson,  tr.  j  861.08  L76 

Ancient  Spanish  ballads.     Putnam. 

Partial  contents:  The  penitence  of  Don  Roderick. — The  maiden  tribute. — The  seven 
heads. — The  young  Cid. — The  flight  from  Granada. — The  bull-fight  of  Gazul. — The  song 
of  the  galley. 

"The  lion  that  hath  bathed  his  paws  in  seas  of  Lybian  gore, 
Shall  he  not  battle  for  the  laws  and  liberties  of  yore? 
Annointed  cravens  may  give  gold  to  whom  it  likes  them  well, 
But  steadfast  heart  and  spirit  bold,  Alphonso  ne'er  shall  sell." 

From  The  inarch  of  Bernardo  del  Carpio. 

Lodge,  Henry  Cabot,  &  Roosevelt,  Theodore.  j  973  L76 

Hero  tales  from  American  history.     191 1.     Century. 

Contents:  George  Washington. — Daniel  Boone  and  the  founding  of  Kentucky.— 
George  Rogers  Clark  and  the  conquest  of  the  Northwest. — The  battle  of  Trenton. — Ben- 
nington.—King's  mountain. — The  storming  of  Stony  Point. — Gouverneur  Morris. — The 
burning  of  the  "Philadelphia." — The  cruise  of  the  "Wasp." — The  "General  Armstrong," 
privateer. — The  battle  of  New  Orleans. — John  Quincy  Adams  and  the  right  of  petition. — 
Francis  Parkman. — "Remember  the  Alamo." — Hampton  Roads. — The  flag-bearer. — The 
death  of  Stonewall  Jackson. — The  charge  at  Gettysburg. — Gen.  Grant  and  the  Vicksburg 
campaign. — Robert  Gould  Shaw. — Charles  Russell  Lowell. — Sheridan  at  Cedar  creek. — 
Lieut.  Cushing  and  the  ram  "Albemarle." — Farragut  at  Mobile  bay. — Abraham  Lincoln. 

Lodge,  Henry  Cabot.  j  973-3  L76 

Story  of  the  Revolution.     1903.     Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "Scribner's  magazine,"  v.23-24,  1898. 

The  author's  main  purpose  is  to  give  a  coherent  account  of  the  struggle  which  made 
us  a  free  nation,  along  with  an  explanation  of  the  causes,  phases  and  consequences  of 
the  great  popular  movement  of  which  every  American  and  every  friend  of  human 
progress  should  be  unfeignedly  proud.     Well  illustrated. 

Lohmeyer,  Julius,  &  Oldenberg,  Friedrich.  qj  831  L78 

Der  alte  bekannte;  originalzeichnungen  von  Oscar  Pletsch,  mil 
alten,  lieben  reimen  von  Julius  Lohmeyer  und  Fr.  Oldenberg. 

Lohmeyer,  Julius,  &  Flinzer,  Fedor.  qj  831  L?8k 

Konig  Xobel;  ein  heiteres  bilderbuch. 

Lohmeyer,  Julius.  qj  831  L78W 

Was  willst  du  werden?  drciundvierzig  bilder  von  Oscar  Pletsch.  m 
holzschnitt  ausgefiihrt  von  H.  Biirkner,  mit  reimen  und  strophen  von 
Julius  Lohmeyer. 

London,  Jack.  j  L822ca 

Call  of  tin-  wild.  Grosset.  |  Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 
Adventures  of  a  St.  Bernard  dog  in  the  Klondike,  .ind  his  final  reversion  to  type, 

when  he  obeyed  tli'   "'all  of  tin-  wild"  and  becanu   the  leader  .>i  a  pack  of  wolves, 

London,  Jack.  j  L822C 

Cruise  of  the  Daz/ler.     Century.    (St.  Nicholas  books.) 
Joe  Bronson  runs  awaj  1-  ipe  bcI l  and  falls  in  with  San  Fn 

pirates,      r.      -   too  In  nest   to  help  them   in   their  thieving  and   aftei    man)    adventures 

with   "Frisco   Kid"  he   finds   his   v,  gain. 


220  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Long,  John  Andrew,  camp.  j  821.08  L82 

Old  English  ballads;  selected  and  arranged  for  use  in  elementary- 
schools.     1912.    Heath. 

Eight  Robin  Hood  ballads;  also  Adam  Bell,  Clym  of  the  Clough  and  William  of 
Cloudesley. — The  hunting  of  the  Cheviot. — Chevy  Chace. — King  John  and  the  abbot  of 
Canterbury. — King  Edward  and  the  tanner. — The  bailiff's  daughter  of  Islington. — 
Johnnie  Armstrong. — Sir  Patrick  Spens. — Sir  Andrew  Barton. 

There  are  introductory  notes  for  each  ballad,  a  map  of  the  royal  forests  of  early 
England,  and  illustrations. 

Long,  John  Davis,  ed.  j  904  L82 

Famous  battles  by  land  and  sea.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young 
folks'  library,  new  ser.  v.6.) 

Contents:  The  battle  of  Marathon,  by  Sir  E.  S.  Creasy.  —  Caesar's  conquest  of 
Britain,  by  Julius  Caesar. — The  battle  of  Hastings,  by  Sir  E.  S.  Creasy. — The  battle  of 
Bannockburn,  by  Scott. — The  battle  of  Cressy,  by  Froissart. — The  conquest  of  Granada, 
by  Washington  Irving. — The  destruction  of  the  Spanish  Armada,  by  J.  A.  Froude. — The 
relief  of  Leyden,  by  J.  L.  Motley. — The  battle  of  Nieuport,  by  C.  R.  Markham. — The 
battle  of  Liegnitz,  by  Thomas  Carlyle. — The  battle  of  Bunker  Hill,  by  J.  F.  Cooper.— 
The  battle  of  Charlestown,  by  Gen.  Gage. — The  battle  of  Saratoga,  by  Sir  E.  S.  Creasy. 
- — The  fight  between  the  Bonhomme  Richard  and  the  Serapis,  by  J.  F.  Cooper. — The 
battle  of  Trafalgar,  by  Robert  Southey. — The  battle  of  Waterloo,  by  Scott. — The  story 
of  Antietam,  by  G.  W.  Smalley. — The  third  of  July  at  Gettysburg,  by  S.  A.  Drake. — 
The  battle  of  Sedan,  by  Zola. — The  battle  of  Plevna,  by  J.  D.  Gay. — The  battle  of 
Majuba  Hill,  by  Hamish  Hendry. — The  battle  of  Manila,  by  J.  M.  Ellicott. — The 
battle  of  Santiago,  by  E.  K.  Rawson. — Notes. 

Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth.  j  811  L82ch2 

The  children's  hour,  and  other  poems,  and  Paul  Revere's  ride,  and 
other  poems.     1917-     Houghton.     (Riverside  holiday  series.) 

"Longfellow  in  home  life,"  p. 7-10. 

Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth.  j  811  L82chi 

Children's  Longfellow.     1908.     Houghton. 

Selection  of  Longfellow's  poems,  including  such  favorites  as  The  skeleton  in 
armor. — The  wreck  of  the  Hesperus. — The  village  blacksmith. — The  old  clock  on  the 
stairs. — The  building  of  the  ship. — King  Robert  of  Sicily. — The  legend  beautiful. 

Colored  pictures. 

Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth.  j  811  L82C 

Complete  poetical  works.     1899.     Household  ed.     Houghton. 
Good  edition,  with  portrait,  illustrations,  index  and  notes. 

Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth.  j  811  L82e2 

Evangeline;  a  tale  of  Acadie.  1892.  Houghton.  (Riverside  Aldine 
classics.) 

"Ye  who  believe  in  affection  that  hopes,  and  endures,  and  is  patient, 
Ye  who  believe  in  the  beauty  and  strength  of  woman's  devotion, 
List  to  the  mournful  tradition,  still  sung  by  the  pines  of  the  forest; 
List  to  a  Tale  of  Love  in  Acadie,  home  of  the  happy." 

Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth.  j  811  L82S 

Song  of  Hiawatha.     1809.     Houghton. 

"Should  you  ask  me,  whence  these  stories? 
Whence  these  legends  and  traditions? 

I  should  answer,  I  should  tell  you, 
'From  the  forests  and  the  prairies, 
From  the  great  lakes  of  the  Northland, 
From  the  land  of  the  Ojibways, 
From  the  land  of  the  Dacotahs. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth — continued.  j  811  L82S 

I  repeat  them  as  I  heard  them 
From  the  lips  of  Nawadaha, 
The  musician,  the  sweet  singer.'  " 
Illustrations  by  Frederic  Remington. 

Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth.  j  811  L82ta 

Tales  of  a  wayside  inn.    1917.    Houghton.    (Riverside  holiday  series.) 

Partial  contents:  Paul  Revere's  ride.— The  falcon  of  Ser  Federigo. — The  legend  of 
Rabbi  Ben  Levi. — King  Robert  of  Sicily. — The  saga  of  King  Olaf. — The  birds  of  Killing- 
worth. — The  bell  of  Atri. — The  ballad  of  Carmilhan. — The  legend  beautiful. 

Lorenzini,  Carlo,  (pseud.  C.  Collodi).  j  853  L87 

Le  avventure  di  Pinocchio;  storia  di  un  burattino. 

Lorenzini,  Carlo,  (pseud.  C.  Collodi).  j  L871P3 

Pinocchio;  the  tale  of  a  puppet;  tr.  by  M.  A.  Murray,  illustrated  by 
Charles  Folkard.     Dent. 

Amusing  tale  of  a  naughty  puppet  that  became  a  real  little  boy.  A  favorite  story 
with  the  children  of  Italy. 

The  same;  tr.  by  W.  S.  Cramp,  with  editorial  revision  by  S.  E.  H. 
Lockwood;  original  drawings  by  Charles  Copeland.     Ginn....j  L871P2 

Title  reads  "Pinocchio ;  the  adventures  of  a  marionette." 

The  same  [abridged;  tr.  by  M.  A.  Murray],  with  coloured  illustra- 
tions by  Charles  Folkard.  Dent.  (Tales  for  children  from  many 
lands.)   j  L871P4 

Title  reads  "Pinocchio;  the  story  of  a  puppet." 
Lossing,  Benson  John.  j  92  H161I 

Two  spies;  Nathan  Hale  and  John  Andre.     1903.     Appleton. 

"Two  Revolutionary  sketches,  turning  about  the  dates  1776  and  1780.  The  one  is 
based  upon  Stuart's  Hale  and  the  other  on  Sargeant's  Andre.  The  author  makes  a 
strong  presentation  of  Andre's  courage.  .  .The  merit  of  the  book  lies  in  the  illustrations 
drawn  from  nature  by  the  author."     Larned's  Literature  of  American  history. 

Contains  also  Anna  Seward's  "Monody  on  Major  Andre." 

Lothrop,  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone).    See  Sidney,  Margaret,  pseud. 

Loughead,  Mrs  Flora  (Haines).  j  Lg26a 

Abandoned  claim.     Houghton. 

How  three  young  people  took  up  land  in  California  and  supported  themselves. 

Lounsberry,  Alice.  j  Lg3if 

Frank  and  Bessie's  forester.     Stokes. 

The  children  make  friends  with  the  forester  who  has  charge  of  the  woods  near  their 
home  and  learn  from  him  about  trees  and  the  care  of  them. 

Lounsberry,  Alice.  j  716  L93 

Garden  book  for  young  people.     1908.     Stokes. 

Story  of  a  young  girl  and  her  brother  who  make  use  of  a  triangular  strip  of  ground 
for  planting  a   flower  garden.     Tells  of  their  work  and  play,   how  they  Started 
rium  and  transplanted  ferns  and  of  all  their  difficulties  and  successes. 

Lounsberry,  Alice.  j  582  L93 

Guide  to  the  trees,  with  an  introduction  by  N.  L.  Britton.  1900. 
Stokes. 

Contains  descriptions  cf  nearly  200  trees  and  a  number  of  shrubs.  A  chapter  en- 
titled "The  growth  of  trees"  deals  with  their  structure,  peculiarities,  and  sources  of  life. 
Arranged  according  to  the  kind  of  Boil  in  which  trees  grew.  Family,  sh.ipo,  height, 
range,  and  time  of  bloom  are  all  given  in  each  case.  Numerous  illustrations,  snnic  in 
color. 


222  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Lounsberry,  Alice.  j  580  L93 

Guide  to  the  wild  flowers,  with  an  introduction  by  N.  L.  Britton. 
Ed.4,  rev.     1899.     Stokes. 

Plants  are  classified  according  to  their  haunts  and  associates,  while  abundant  and 
excellent  illustrations  are  the  keys  for  identification.  A  summary  of  the  plant  lore  and 
of  the  literary  allusions  appropriate  to  the  flower  is  given  for  each  of  the  species. 

Lovejoy,  Mary  I.  comp.  j  821.08  L942 

Nature  in  verse;  a  poetry  reader  for  children.     1896.     Silver. 

Poems  about  plants,  flowers,  insects,  birds,  clouds,  rain,  etc.  grouped  under  the  dif- 
ferent seasons.     For  primary  grades. 

Lovejoy,  Mary  I.  comp.  j  821.08  L942P 

Poetry  of  the  seasons.     1898.     Silver. 

Supplements  "Nature  in  verse,"  being  designed  for  grammar  grades.  The  poems 
treat  of  the  seasons  and  their  varied  phenomena;  of  flowers,  birds  and  animals;  and  of 
the  wonders  of  earth,  sea  and  air. 

Lovering,  Anna  Temple.  j  974.7  L94 

Stories  of  New  York.     1896.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Includes  such  incidents  as  the  burning  of  Schenectady,  the  capture  of  Ticonderoga, 
the  massacre  at  Cherry  valley,  the  inauguration  of  Washington,  the  opening  of  the 
Erie  canal.     Contains  also  short  sketches  of  some  of  New  York's  great  men. 

Lowell,  James  Russell.  j  811  L95C 

Complete  poetical  works.     1896.     Houghton. 

Lubbock,  Sir  John,  baron  Avebury.  j  332.49  L96 

Short  history  of  coins  and  currency.  1902.  Dutton.  (Home  and 
school  library.) 

Contents:  The  origin  of  money. — The  coinage  of  Britain. — Weights  of  coins. — 
Bank-notes  and  banking. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall.  j  Lgoga 

Anne's  terrible  good  nature,  and  other  stories  for  children.  Chatto. 
Other  stories:     The   thousand  threepenny   bits. —  Roderick's   pros. —  The   monkey's 

revenge. — The    notice-board. — The    Miss    Bannisters'    brother. — The    anti-burglars. — Sir 

Franklin  and  the  little  mothers. — The  gardens  and  the  Nile. — A  day  in  the  life  of  a 

shilling. — The  ring  of  fortitude. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall,  comp.  j  821.08  Lg6a 

Another  book  of  verses  for  children.     1907.     Macmillan. 

Companion  volume  to  "Book  of  verses  for  children,"  containing  many  more  de- 
lightful nonsense  rhymes,  ballads  and  story-poems.     Illustrated  by  F.  D.   Bedford. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall,  comp.  j  821.08  L96 

Book  of  verses  for  children.     1897.     Stokes. 

About  200  old  proverbs,  nonsense  rhymes,  old-fashioned  verses  and  story-poems. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall,  comp.  j   Lg6gf 

Forgotten  tales  of  long  ago,  with  illustrations  by  F.  D.  Bedford. 
Gardner. 

Contents:  Dicky  Random. — -The  months. — Jemima  Placid. — Two  trials:  Sally  Delia; 
Harry  Lenox. — Prince  Life,  by  G.  P.  R.  James. — -The  farm-yard  journal,  by  the  Aikins. 
— The  fruits  of  disobedience. —  The  rose's  breakfast. —  The  three  cakes,  by  Armand 
Berquin. — Amendment. — Scourhill's  adventures. — -The  journal,  by  Priscilla  Wakefield. — 
Ellen  and  George,  by  A.  C.  Mant. — Waste  not,  want  not,  by  Maria  Edgeworth. — The 
bunch  of  cherries. —  The  fugitive,  by  Miss  Pearson. — -  The  butcher's  tournament,  by 
Peter  Parley. — Malleville's  night  of  adventure,  by  Jacob  Abbott. — The  life  and  adven- 
tures of  Lady  Anne. — Captain  Murderer,  by  Charles  Dickens. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  223 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall.  j  821  Lg6f 

Four  and  twenty  toilers;  pictures  by  F.  D.  Bedford,  verses  by  E.  V. 
Lucas.     McDevitt. 

Among  the  toilers  represented  are  the  shipbuilder,  the  cobbler,  the  miller,  the  car- 
penter, the  knife-grinder.     Full-page  pictures  in  color. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall,  camp.  j  L9690 

Old  fashioned  tales,  with  illustrations  by  F.  D.  Bedford.     Gardner. 

Contents:  The  history  of  little  Jack,  by  Thomas  Day. — The  good-natured  little  boy 
and  the  ill-natured  little  boy,  by  Thomas  Day. — The  purple  jar,  by  Maria  Edgeworth. — - 
Little  Robert  and  the  owl,  by  Mrs  Sherwood. — Trial  of  a  complaint  made  against  sundry 
persons  for  breaking  in  the  windows  of  Dorothy  Careful,  widow  and  dealer  in  ginger- 
bread, by  John  Aikin  and  A.  L.  Barbauld. — The  basket-woman,  by  Maria  Edgeworth. — 
Limby  Lumpy. — The  little  blue  bag,  by  A.  C.  Mant. — The  oyster  patties. — -The  change- 
ling, by  Mary  Lamb. — The  sea  voyage,  by  Charles  Lamb. — Embellishment,  by  Jacob 
Abbott. — The  misses,  by  A.  L.  Barbauld. — -The  robbers'  cave. — The  inquisitive  girl.-  — 
Helen  Holmes  ;  or,  The  villager  metamorphosed,  by  Caroline  Barnard. — Bob  and  dog 
Quiz. — A  plot  of  gunpowder;  or,  The  history  of  an  old  lady  who  was  seized  for  a  guy, 
by  Peter  Parley. — Uncle  David's  nonsensical  story  about  giants  and  fairies,  by  Catherine 
Sinclair. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall.  j  L969S 

The  slowcoach.     Macmillan. 

Appeared  in  "Outlook,"  v. 95-96,  June  25-Nov.  26,  1910. 

Story  of  the  ten  days'  travel  of  the  Avory  children  and  some  of  their  friends  from 
Oxford  to  Bredon  and  back  in  a  caravan  which  had  mysteriously  appeared  at  the  Avory 
home  and  of  which  they  were  startlingly  bereft  at  the  end  of  the  journey. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall,  &  Lucas,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Griffin).        j  790  L96 
Three  hundred  games  and  pastimes;  or.  What  shall  we  do  now?  a 
book   of   suggestions   for   children's    games   and   employments.      1900. 
Moring. 

Same  as  their  "What  shall  we  do  now?" 

There  are  drawing,  writing,  thinking,  guessing  and  acting  games,  as  well  as  games 
for  parties,  picnics  and  other  special  occasions.  Also  includes  chapters  on  indoor  occu- 
pations, candy-making,  books  and  reading,  gardening,  and  the  care  of  pets. 

Lucas,  Edward  Verrall,  &  Lucas,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Griffin). 

What  shall  we  do  now?  See  their  Three  hundred  games  and  pas- 
times. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Lucia,  Rose.  j  L9692PU 

Peter  and  Polly  in  autumn.     Araer.  Book  Co. 

Lucia,  Rose.  j  L9692PS 

Peter  and  Polly 'in  spring.     Amer.  Book  Co. 
Lucia,  Rose.  j  L9692P 

Peter  and  Polly  in  summer.     Amer.  Book  Co. 
Lucia,  Rose.  j  Lg6g2pe 

Peter  and  Polly  in  winter.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Simple  stories  of  the  home  and  outdoor  life  of  two  little  children  who  live  in  the 
country.     Interesting  pictures. 

Lucia,  Rose.  j  973-1  L96 

Stories  of  American  discoverers  for  little  Americans.  1910.  Amer. 
Book  Co.     (Eclectic  readings.) 

Account  of  Spanish,   English  and   French  explorers,   from  Columbus  to  Henry  Hud- 


224  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Lucian.     Vera  historia.     For  adaptation  see 

Church,  A.  J.  ed.    The  Greek  Gulliver j  888  L96 

Lugard,  Flora  Louisa  (Shaw),  lady.     See  Shaw,  Flora  Louisa. 

Lummis,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  L977k 

The  king  of  the  broncos,  and  other  stories  of  New  Mexico.     Scrib- 

ner. 

Other  stories:  Bogged  down. — The  bite  of  the  pichu-cuate. — Poh-hlaik,  the  cave-boy. 
— The  jawbone  telegraph. — A  penitente  flower-pot. — Bravo's  day  off. — Bonifacio's 
horse-thief. — Green's  bear-trap. — My  smallest  sitter.— Our  worst  snake. — Kelley's  ground- 
sluice. — The  old  Sharpe. — My  friend  Will. 

Lummis,  Charles  Fletcher. 

Man  who  married  the  moon,  and  other  stories.  See  his  Pueblo 
Indian  folk-stories. 

Lummis,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  L97711 

A  New  Mexico  David,  and  other  stories  and  sketches  of  the  South- 
west.    Scribner. 

Other  stories:  How  I  lost  my  shadow. — 'Quito's  nugget. — The  enchanted  mesa. — 
A  Pueblo  rabbit-hunt. — Pablo  Apodaca's  bear. — The  Box  S  round-up. — The  Comanche's 
revenge. — In  the  Pueblo  Alto. — Little  Lolita. — Three  live  witches. — How  to  throw  the 
lasso. — "Old  Surely." — The  gallo  race. — On  the  pay-streak. — The  miracle  of  San  Felipe. 
— A  new  old  game. — A  New  Mexican  hero. 

Lummis,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  398.097  L97 

Pueblo  Indian  folk-stories.     1910.     Century. 

New  edition  of  "Man  who  married  the  moon,  and  other  stories." 
The  author  lived  for  five  years  among  the  Pueblo  Indians  of  New  Mexico,  learning 
their  language  and  customs,  and  in  the  long  winter  evenings  listening  to  the  tales  the 
old  men  tell  to  the  boys  gathered  about  them — wonderful  stories  of  The  antelope  boy. — 
The  ants  that  pushed  on  the  sky. — The  man  who  wouldn't  keep  Sunday. — The  town  of 
the  snake-girls,  etc. 

Lummis,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  917.8  L97S 

Some  strange  corners  of  our  country.     1892.     Century. 

Describes  strange  scenery  and  curious  Indian  customs  of  the  southwestern  United 
States — the  Grand  canon  of  the  Colorado;  the  petrified  forest  of  Arizona;  the  rattle- 
snake dance;  the  self-crucifiers;  Pueblo  homes;  Montezuma's  well;  the  stone  autograph 
album;  the  natural  bridge  of  Pine  creek,  Arizona. 

Lummis,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  973.1  L97 

Spanish  pioneers.     1906.     McClurg. 

Adventures  and  discoveries  of  Cabeza  de  Vaca,  Cortes,  Alvarado,  Pizarro  and  other 
Spanish  pioneers  in  the  New  World. 

Partial  contents:  The  war  of  the  rock. — The  storming  of  the  Sky -city. — The  soldier 
poet. — Alvarado's  leap. — The  American  golden  fleece. 

Lummis,  Charles  Fletcher.  j  917.8  L97 

Tramp  across  the  continent.     1905.     Scribner. 

The  author  traveled  from  Ohio  to  California  on  foot,  in  his  roundabout-  course  a 
distance  of  3,507  miles. 

Some  of  the  chapters  are,  Skirting  the  Rockies. — The  land  of  the  adobe. — The  Fiesta 
de  los  muertos. — With  the  nomads. — The  verge  of  the  desert. 

Luther,  Agnes  Vinton.  j  gio  L98 

Trading  and  exploring.  1912.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (World  at  work 
series.) 

Contents:  The  Babylonians.— The  Phoenicians. — The  Venetians.— The  Norsemen. 
— The  Portuguese. — The  Dutch. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  225 


Lutz,  Edwin  George.  j  741  L98 

What  to  draw  and  how  to  draw  it.     1914.     Dodd. 

Simple  and  suggestive  diagrams  showing  how  to  draw  various  birds  and  animals,  a 
house  and  barn,  a  tent,  pagoda,  lighthouse,  etc'. 

Lutz,  Frank  Eugene.  j  595.7  L98 

Field  book  of  insects,  with  special  reference  to  those  of  northeast- 
ern United  States.     1918.     Putnam. 

An  attractive  "field-book"  referring  to  about  1,400  kinds  of  insects,  nearly  600  of 
which  are  illustrated.  An  attempt  has  been  made  to  include  the  insects  most  likely 
to  attract  the  attention  of  the  ordinary  observer.  Contains  keys  for  identification  of 
species. 

Lytton,  Edward  George  Earle  Lytton  Bulwer-,  baron.  j  Lgggh 

Harold,  the  last  of  the  Saxon  kings;  Falkland;  Calderon  the  cour- 
tier.   2v.  in  1.     Page. 

First  story  is  about  the  conflict  between  Saxons  and  Normans  for  the  mastery  of 
England.  It  gives  a  vivid  picture  of  English  life  in  the  nth  century  and  descriptions 
of  the  battles  of  Stamford  bridge  and  Hastings. 

Lytton,  Edward  George  Earle  Lytton  Bulwer-,  baron.  j  L999I 

Last  days  of  Pompeii.    Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Story  of  the  olden  time,  telling  how  the  blind  flower  girl  of  Pompeii  twice  saved 
Glaucus  the  Athenian  from  a  dreadful  death.  Also  of  the  eruption  of  Vesuvius  and  the 
tragic  fate  of  the  city  of  Pompeii. 

Lytton,  Edward  George  Earle  Lytton  Bulwer-,  baron.  j  Lgggla 

Last  of  the  barons.     Page. 

Tale  of  the  Wars  of  the  Roses  and  of  Warwick,  the  "King-maker."  "Round  the 
great  image  of  the  'Last  of  the  barons'  group  Edward  the  Fourth,  at  once  frank  and 
false;  the  brilliant  but  ominous  boyhood  of  Richard  the  Third;  the  accomplished  Hast- 
ings, 'a  good  knight  and  gentle'. .  .and  the  vehement  and  fiery  Margaret  of  Anjou." 

Lytton,  Edward  George  Earle  Lytton  Bulwer-  baron.  j  Lgggr 

Rienzi,  the  last  of  the  Roman  tribunes.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Historical  story  based  on  the  romantic  career  and  tragic  fate  of  Rienzi,  the  Italian 
patriot  of  the  14th  century. 

"Then   turn  we  to  her  latest  Tribune's  name, 
From  her  ten  thousand  tyrants  turn  to  thee, 
Redeemer  of  dark  centuries  of  shame — 
The  friend  of  Petrarch — hope  of  Italy — 
Rienzi,  last  of  Romans." 

Byron. 
Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  comp.  j  821.08  Mn 

Book  of  old  English  ballads,  with  decorative  drawings  by  G.  W.  Ed- 
wards and  an  introduction  by  H.  W.  Mabie.     1896.     Macmillan. 

Partial  contents:  Chevy  Chace. — Annan  water. — The  bailiff's  daughtei  ol  [sling' 
ton. — The  Douglas  tragedy. — Flodden  field. — Robin  Hood  and  Allen-a-Dale.  -The  nut- 
brown  maid. — The  battle  of  Otterburn. — Sir  Patrick  Spens. 

Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  ed.  j  398  Mii3f 

Fairy  tales  every  child  should  know;  a  selection  of  the  best  fairy 
tales  of  all  times  and  of  all  authors.  1913-  Grosset.  ("Every  child 
should  know"  books.) 

Contents:     One  Eye,  Two  Eyes,  Three  Eyes. — The  magic  mirror. — The  eni  fa 
stag. — Hansel  and  Grethel. — The  story  of  Aladdin;   or,  The  wonderful   lamp.     The   his 
tory   of  AH   Baba   and   of   the    forty   robbers   killed    by   one   slave. — The   second    \ 
of  Sindbad  the  sailor. — The  white  cat. — The  golden  goose. — The  twelve  brothers. — The 
fair  one  with  the  golden  locks.— Tom  Thumb. — Blue   Beard. — Cinderella;    or,  Tin-   little 
glass   slipper. — Puss  in   boots. — The   sleeping  beauty   in    the   wood. — Jack    and   the   bean- 
stalk.—Jack  the  Giant  Killer. — Little  Red  Riding  Hood. — The  three  bears. — The  pi 
on  the  pea. — The  ugly  duckling. — The  light  princess. — Beauty  and  the  beast. 


226  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  ed.  j  Mii3f 

Famous  stories  every  child  should  know;  a  selection  of  the  best 
stories  of  all  times  for  young  people;  ed.  by  H.  W.  Mabie,  with  the  as- 
sistance  of   Kate    Stephens.     Grosset.      ("Every   child   should   know" 

Contents:  A  child's  dream  of  a  star,  by  Charles  Dickens.— The  king  of  the  Golden 
river,  by  John  Ruskin.-The  snow  image,  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne.— Undine  by 
Friedrich,  baron  de  La  Motte  Fouque.— The  story  of  Ruth,  from  the  book  of  Ruth.— 
The  great  stone  face,  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne.— The  diverting  history  of  John  Gilpin, 
by  William  Cowper.— The  man  without  a  country,  by  E.  E.  Hale.— The  Nurnberg 
stove,  by  Louise  de  la  Ramee.— Rab  and  his  friends,  by  John  Brown.— Peter  Rugg, 
the  missing  man,  by  William  Austin. 

Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  ed.  3  920  Muh 

Heroes  every  child  should  know;   tales  for  young  people  of  the 

world's    heroes   in    all    ages.      1909.      Grosset.      ("Every    child    should 

know"  books.) 

Contents:  Perseus.— Hercules.— Daniel.— David.— St.  George.— King  Arthur —Sir 
Galahad —Siegfried.— Roland.— King  Alfred.— The  Cid.— Robin  Hood.— Richard  the 
Lion-hearted.— Saint  Louis.— William  Tell.— Robert  Bruce.— George  Washington.— 
Robert  E.  Lee.— Abraham  Lincoln. — Father  Damien. 

Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  &  Stephens,  Kate,  ed.  j  920.7  Mil 

Heroines  that  every  child  should  know;  tales  for  young  people  of 
the  world's  heroines  of  all  ages.  1908.  Grosset.  ("Every  child  should 
know"  books.) 

Contents:  Alcestis. —  Antigone. —  Iphigenia. —  Paula. —  Joan  of  Arc. —  Catherine 
Douglas.— Lady  Jane  Grey.— Pocahontas.— Flora  Macdonald  —  Madame  Roland.— 
Grace  Darling.— Sister  Dora. — Florence  Nightingale. 

Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  ed.  j  398.2  Mn 

Legends  that  every  child  should  know;  a  selection  of  the  great 
legends  of  all  times  for  young  people.  1907.  Grosset.  ("Every  child 
should  know"  books.) 

Contents:  Hiawatha. — Beowulf. — Childe  Horn. — Sir  Galahad. — Rustem  and  Soh- 
rab. — The  seven  sleepers  of  Ephesus. — Guy  of  Warwick. — Chevy  Chase.— The  fate  of 
the  children  of  Lir.— The  beleaguered  city. — Prester  John. — The  wandering  Jew. — King 
Robert  of  Sicily.— The  life  of  the  Beato  Torello  da  Poppi. — The  Lorelei. — The  passing 
of  Arthur. — Rip  Van  Winkle. — The  gray  champion. — The  legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow. 

Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  ed.  j  920  Mil 

Men  who  have  risen.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library, 
new  ser.  v.17.) 

Contents:  Agassiz,  by  W.  M.  Thayer. — Arkwright,  by  R.  A.  Davenport. — Bunyan, 
by  J.  G.  Whittier. — Burns,  by  Thomas  Carlyle. — Burroughs;  autobiography. — Carnegie, 
by  J.  D.  Champlin. — Caxton,  by  B.  B.  Edwards. — Cellini;  autobiography. — Cromwell,  by 
Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — Dickens;  autobiography. — Edison,  by  E.  C.  Kenyon. — Faraday, 
by  John  Tyndall. — Flaxman,  by  Samuel  Smiles. — Franklin,  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  ; 
.  and  autobiography. — Fulton,  by  James  Parton. — Horace,  by  James  Parton. — Andrew 
Jackson,  by  George  Bancroft. — Stonewall  Jackson,  by  Col.  Henderson. — Samuel  John- 
son, by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  and  by  Lord  Macaulay. — Lincoln,  by  H.  W.  Mabie. — 
Newton,  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — Palissy,  by  E.  E.  Hale. — Shakespeare,  by  R.  W. 
Emerson. — Stephenson,  by  Samuel  Smiles. — Biographical  notes. 

Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright.  j  293  Mil 

Norse  stories  retold  from  the  Eddas.     1894.     Dodd. 

Old  Norse  myths  of  Tyr  and  the  binding  of  the  Fenris-wolf,  of  Loki  and  his  mis- 
doings and  how  he  was  punished,  of  Odin  and  Thor  and  Baldur  the  Beautiful  and  of 
the  last  great  battle  between  the  gods  and  the  frost  giants. 


CHILDREN'S  HOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 

Mabinogion.  j  398.25  Mn 

Knightly  legends  of  Wales;  or,  The  boy's  Mabinogion;  ed.  by  Sid- 
ney Lanier.     1884.     Scribner. 

Weird  Welsh  tales,  full  of  magic  and  mystery,  of  fierce  encounters  and  daring  ex- 
ploits. Eleven  of  the  stories  are  taken  from  the  famous  "Red  book  of  Hergest,"  a  14th 
century  manuscript,  and  five  of  them  relate  adventures  of  King  Arthur's  knights.  In- 
cludes also  the  romance  of  Taliesin  who  was  probably  a  real  sixth  century  bard  and  a 
contemporary  of  Arthur.     Companion  to  the  "Roy's  King  Arthur." 

Mabinogion.  j  398.25  Mug 

Mabinogion;  tr.  by  Lady  Charlotte  Guest.     [1910.]     Dent. 

Contents:  Pwyll  prince  of  Dyved. — Branwen  the  daughter  of  Llyr. — Manawyddan 
the  son  of  Llyr. — Math  the  son  of  Mathonwy. — The  dream  of  Maxcc  Wlediq. — Story 
of  Lludd  and  Llevelys. — Kilhwch  and  Ohven. — The  dream  of  Rhonabwy. — The  lady  of 
the  fountain. — Peredur  the  son  of  Evrawc. — Geraint  the  son   of   Erbin. — Taliesin. 

Mabinogion.  j  398.25  Mnw 

Wonder  stories   from  the   Mabinogion,  by   Edward   Brooks.      1908. 

Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Includes    the    12   stories   in    Lady    Guest's    translation,    somewhat    shortened    and 

adapted.     Also  contains  the  story  of  "Sir  Gawaine  and  the  Green   Knight." 

McAtee,  Waldo  Lee.  j  598.2  Mn 

How  to  attract  birds  in  northeastern  United  States.  1915.  (United 
States — Agriculture,  Department  of.     Farmers'  bulletin  no.621.) 

Suggests  methods  for  protecting  wild  birds  and  especially  for  providing  an  ade- 
quate food  supply. 

Macaulay,  Thomas  Babington,  lord.  j  821  M11I2 

Lays  of  ancient  Rome;  illustrated  by  Norman  Ault.    1912.    Dodge. 
The  same,  with  Ivry,  and  The  Armada.    1904.   Longmans,  .j  821  M11I4 

How  Horatius  kept  the  bridge  "in  the  brave  days  of  old,"  and  other  heroic  poems. 

"There  is  an  unfading  charm  in  the  swing  and  vigor  of  the  lines,  which  bring  to 
our  ears  the  very  sound  of  the  battle,  the  clash  of  steel  and  the  rushing  of  the  horses, 
'the  noise  of  the  captains  and  the  shouting.'  " 

"And  how  can  man  die  better 
Than    facing    fearful   odds, 
For   the   ashes   of   his   fathers, 
And  the  temples  of  his  gods? 

In  yon   strait  path   a    thousand 
May  well  be  stopped  by  tin 
Now  who  will  stand  on  either  hand 
And  keep  the  bridge  with  me?" 

From  Horatius. 

McCall,  Sidney,  pseud.     See  Fenollosa,  Mrs  Mary  (McNeil). 

McCandless,  Byron,  &  Grosvenor,  CI.  H.  qj  929.9  M12 

Flags  of  the  world.     191 7.     National  Geographic  Soc. 
Appeared  in  "National  geographic  magazine,"  v.32,  Ocl 
Includes  a  history  of  the   American    Hag  and  directioi  play,  as  well  as 

pictures  and  descriptions  of  thi    18  state  Hags,  the  hi  of  the  raiddl 

those  of  modern  nations.    Gives  also  thi   insignia  of  the  various  branches  of  the  United 

States  army  and   navy, 

MacClintock,  Samuel.  j  919.14  M13 

The  Philippines;  a  geographical  reader.     [903.     Amer.  Book  *'". 

Tells    about    the   government,   th<  Manila,    the    Moros,    tii'-    Visa)  in-,    the 

Negritos  and  other  peoples  and  places  of  tin-  Philippine  islands.     Maps  and  picl  1 


228  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


McCormack,  Mary  Anna.  J  646  M14 

Spool  knitting.     1909.    Barnes. 

Shows  how  to  use  a  toy  knitter  and  gives  directions  for  making  slippers,  toboggan 
cap,  muffler,  jumping  rope,  toy  horse  reins,  school  bag,  a  doll's  sweater,  muff,  hood 
and  coat,  etc. 

McDonald,  Mrs  Etta  Austin  (Blaisdell).     See  Blaisdell,  Etta  Austin. 

MacDonald,  George.  J  Mi46at 

At  the  back  of  the  north  wind.     Lippincott. 

Fanciful  story  of  little  Diamond  and  his  strange  and  wonderful  journeys  with  the 
lady  North  Wind. 

The  same;  illustrated  by  J.  W.  Smith.    McKay j  Mi46at2 

MacDonald,  George.  j  M146I 

Light  princess,  and  other  fairy  tales.     Putnam. 

What  happened  to  a  little  princess  who  weighed  nothing  and  floated  as  easily  as  a 
feather. 

Other  tales:  The  giant's  heart. — The  shadows. — Cross  purposes. — The  golden  key. 
— The  carasoyn. — Little  Daylight. 

Same  as  his  "Dealings  with  the  fairies"  except  that  this  book  contains  two  addi- 
tional stories. 

MacDonald,  George.  j  M146P 

The  princess  and  Curdie.     Lippincott. 

In  which  Curdie  and  his  army  of  weird  beasts  overcome  the  enemies  of  his  king. 
Sequel  to  "The  princess  and  the  goblin." 

MacDonald,  George.  j  Mi46pr 

The  princess  and  the  goblin.     Lippincott. 

A  marvelous  tale  of  how  the  princess  and  Curdie  with  the  help  of  the  great-great- 
grandmother  overcame  the  wicked  goblins  of  the  mountain. 

MacDonald,  George.  j  Mi46r 

Ranald  Bannerman's  boyhood.     Lippincott. 

A  Scotch  lad's  school  days  and  friends. 

MacDonald,  George.  j  Mi46si 

Sir  Gibbie.    Low. 

How  homeless  Gibbie,  the  dumb  shepherd  boy,  became  a  baronet  ana  master  of  the 
Auld  Hoose  o'  Galbraith. 

Macdonell,  Amice.  j  793.1  M14 

Historical  plays  for  children.  8  nos.  [1910.]  Musson  Book  Co.  & 
Allen. 

no.  1.     Alfred  the  Great. 

no. 2.     Robin  Hood. 

no. 3.     Story  of  the  Armada. 

no.4.     Enterprise  of  the  "Mayflower." 

no. 5.     Saxon  and  Norman. 

no. 6.     Magna   Carta,  and  Edward   III. 

no.7.     Caedmon,  The  burghers  of  Calais   [and]   The  good  queen. 

no. 8.     The  crusaders. 

Macdonell,  Anne.  j  398  M14 

Italian  fairy  book;  illustrations  by  M.  M.  Williams.    [1911.]    Stokes. 

Contains  the  story  of  Vardiello  the  simpleton,  of  Lionbruno  who  was  carried  away 
to  fairyland,  and  of  the  seven  gifted  brothers  who  delivered  the  princess  Joyosa  from 
a  powerful  wizard;  also  many  other  tales,  of  poor  lads  who  went  out  into  the  world  to 
seek  their  fortune,  of  werewolves,  fairies  and  magicians. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  229 

Mace,  Jean.  j  M151I1 

Home  fairy  tales   (Contes  du  petit-chateau);  tr.  by  M.  L.  Booth. 

Harper. 

Contents:     Little  Ravaged. — Goldielocks. — Bibi,  Baba  and  Bobo. — Miss  Careless. 

— The  necklace  of  truth. — Friquet  and  Friquette. — Medio  Pollito. — The  magic  axe  and 

the  white  cat. — Peter  and  Paul. — The  enchanted  watch. — Poveretta. — The  mad  cow. — 

The  home  fairy. — The  two  friends. — The  great  scholar. 

Collection  of  quaint,   old-fashioned   fairy  tales,   some  of  them  humorous. 

Mace,  William  Harrison.  j  92  L7ism 

Lincoln,  the  man  of  the  people.  1912.  Rand.  (Little  lives  of  great 
men.) 

For  the  younger  children.     Many  pictures. 

Mace,  William  Harrison.  j  973  M15 

Primary  history;  stories  of  heroism.     1909.     Rand. 

Brief  accounts  of  the  early  explorers  of  the  North  American  continent,  the  men 
who  fought  for  American  independence  in  the  time  of  the  Revolution,  the  heroes  of  the 
War  of  1812  and  the  men  who,  later,  helped  to  make  the  nation  great. 

McFarlane,  Arthur  Emerson.  j  Mis8r 

Redney  McGaw;  a  story  of  the  big  show  and  the  cheerful  spirit. 

Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Lively  adventures  of  a  boy  who  travels  with  a  circus  from  Buffalo  to  Dubuque. 

McFee,  Mrs  Inez  Nellie  (Canfield).  j  940.91  M15 

Peep  at  the  front;  stories  of  the  great  war  for  boys  and  girls.  1919. 
Crowell. 

The  separate  chapters  deal  with  various  phases  of  the  European  war — trench  fight- 
ing, the  work  of  signalmen,  airmen,  army  engineers,  scouts  and  snipers,  sappers  and 
miners,  the  tank  and  the  camouflage  corps.  Hospital  and  ambulance  service  is  also 
included. 

McFee,  Mrs  Inez  Nellie  (Canfield).  j  582  M15 

Tree  book.     1919.     Stokes. 

Chapters  on  the  life  and  work  of  trees  are  followed  by  descriptions  of  the  more  com- 
mon families.  Legends  and  poetic  fancies  associated  with  trees  are  introduced  and  there 
is  a  concluding  chapter  on  forestry.     Illustrations  from  photographs. 

MacGregor,  Mary.  j  922  M16 

Stories  of  three  saints,  told  to  the  children.     [1908.]     Jack.     (Told 

to  the  children  series.) 

Contents:     Saint  Francis. — Saint  Columba. — Saint  Cuthbert. 

MacGregor,  Mary.  j  944  M16 

Story  of  France,  told  to  boys  and  girls,  with  plates  in  colour  by 
William  Rainey.     [1911.]     Stokes. 

From  the  time  of  the  Druids  and  the  patriot  Vcrcingetorix  to  the  battle  of  Sedan 
and  the  establishment  of  the  third  republic.  Includes  legends,  traditions,  and  hero 
tales  of  the  good  emperor  Charlemagne,  the  gallant  soldier  Du  Gucsclin,  the  Maid  of 
Orleans,  Bayard  and  others.  Contains  index,  also  a  chronological  table  of  the  kings 
of  France  from  the  time  of  Clovis. 

MacGregor,  Mary.  j  938  M16 

Story  of  Greece,  told  to  boys  and  girls,  with  plates  in  colour  by 
Walter  Crane.     [1914.]     Stokes. 

Begins  with  mythical  and  legendary  stories  of  gods  and  heroes  and  ends  with  the 
conquests  of  Alexander  the  Great.  Gives  short  accounts  of  battles  and  sieges,  and  of 
the  men  who  made  Greece  a  great  nation. 


23o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


MacGregor,  Mary.  J  937  M16 

Story  of  Rome  from  the  earliest  times  to  the  death  of  Augustus, 

told  to  boys  and  girls,  with  plates  in  colour  by  Paul  Woodroffe   [and 

others].     [1912.]     Jack. 

Much  space  is  given  to  the  early  legends. 

Mcllvaine,  Charles.  j  57°4  M17 

Outdoors,  indoors  and  up  the  chimney.  1906.  Sunday  School 
Times  Co. 

Contents:  If  I  came  from  the  moon. — Why  the  stove  smokes.— What  dust  does 
for  us. — Our  friend  the  toadstools. — Only  a  lump  of  coal. — Our  indoor  neighbors, 
mice. — Only  an  egg. — On  the  seashore. — Under  creek  waters. — Scares  that  are  use- 
less.— The  beginning  of  plants. — Plants  that  poison.— A  study  of  flies. — Fireflies.— 
The  busiest  of  insects. — Jack  Frost. — In  the  dark. — Our  underground  neighbors. 

Mackay,  Constance  D'Arcy.  j  793-12  M17 

Costumes  and  scenery  for  amateurs;  a  practical  working  handbook. 
1915.     Holt. 

The  range  of  costume  covers  the  fairy  and  fantastic  play,  the  folk  play,  and  the 
historical  play  or  pageant.  The  color  and  material  are  fully  described,  and  in  many 
cases  patterns  may  be  obtained.  There  are  costumes  for  both  children  and  adults. 
The  scenes  are  such  as  can  readily  be  adapted  to  small  stages,  and,  as  far  as  possible, 
perspective  in  the  scene  designs  has  been  omitted. 

Mackay,  Constance  D'Arcy.  j  812  Mi7h 

House  of  the  heart,  and  other  plays  for  children;  designed  for  use 
in  the  schools.     1909.     Holt. 

Other  plays:  The  gooseherd  and  the  goblin. — The  enchanted  garden. — Ximble-Wit 
and  Fingerkin. — A  little  pilgrim's  progress. — A  pageant  of  the  hours. — On  Christmas 
eve. — The  elf  child. — The  princess  and  the  pixies. — The  Christmas  guest. 

One-act  plays,  simple  and  easy  of  representation  on  the  school  stage.  Directions 
for  costumes,  simple  settings  and  dramatic  action  are  given  with  each  play. 

Mackay,  Constance  D'Arcy.  j  792.07  M17 

How  to  produce  children's  plays.     1915.     Holt. 

Lists  of  plays,  p. 113-150. 

"Books  that  will  be  of  help  to  dramatic  directors,  teachers,  social  workers,"  p.  151. 

"Includes  a  history  of  the  children's  play  movement,  a  chapter  on  its  sociological 
aspects  and  suggestions  for  new  fields,  as  well  as  chapters  on  play-producing,  scenery, 
costumes,  and  properties."     Preface. 

Mackay,  Constance  D'Arcy.  j  812  M17P 

Patriotic  plays  and  pageants  for  young  people.     1912.     Holt. 

Each  play  deals  with  the  youth  of  some  American  hero.  There  are  full  direc- 
tions for  simple  costumes,  dances  and  music. 

Mackay,  Constance  D'Arcy.  j  793.1  M17 

Plays  of  the  pioneers;  a  book  of  historical  pageant-plays.  1915. 
Harper. 

Contents:  The  pioneers. — The  fountain  of  youth. — May-day. — The  vanishing  race. 
— The  passing  of  Hiawatha. — Dame  Greel  o'  Portland  Town. — Costuming  the  plays. — 
Music. — Producing  outdoor  pageants   and  plays. 

"Bibliography,"   p.i53-i57- 

Mackay,  Constance  D'Arcy.  j  812  M17 

The  silver  thread,  and  other  folk  plays  for  young  people;  arranged 
for  use  in  the  grammar  grades.     1910.     Holt. 

Other  plays:  The  forest  spring.— The  foam  maiden.— Troll  magic. — The  three 
wishes. — A  brewing  of  brains. — Siegfried. — The  snow   witch. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS     AUTHOR   LIST  231 


Mackenzie,  Marion.  qj  372.5  M18 

Little   artist;   a  guide   in   water  colors   for  kindergartners,   mothers 

and   teachers   in    connecting   classes   and   lower   grades   of   the   puhlic 

schools.     1898.     Bradley. 

Directions  and   illustrations   for  freehand   brush   work   in   color. 

Mackie,  R.  L.  j  92  R534m 

Story  of  King  Robert  the  Bruce.     [1913.]     Crowell. 

In  its  atmosphere  of  chivalry  and  adventure  seems  to  belong  not  to  the  gray  prov- 
ince of  history,  but  to  the  golden  realm  of  romance.  The  reader  may  accompany 
Bruce  in  his  perilous  exploits,  see  him  fighting,  not  only  against  men,  but  against 
hunger,  weariness  and  despair,  and  watch  him  develop  from  a  selfish  adventurer  to  a 
high-souled  patriot,  from  an  outlaw  to  the  sovereign  of  a  powerful  and  united  kingdom. 
Condensed  from  Introduction. 

McKilliam,  Annie  E.  j  92  A392m 

Alfred  the  Great.     1914.    Stokes.     (Heroes  of  all  time.) 

Tells  not  only  of  Alfred's  early  life  and  the  wars  with  the  Danes,  but  also  of  the 
laws  which  he  made  and  the  books  which  he  wrote.     Illustrated. 

McKnight,  Charles.  j  M187C 

Captain  Jack  the  scout;  or,  The  Indian  wars  about  old  Fort  Du- 
quesne.     Winston. 

Also  published  with  the  titles  "Old  Fort  Duquesne,"  and  "General  Braddock,  an 
historical  romance  of  old  Fort  Duquesne." 

Events  of  the  story  take  place  in  and  about  Fort  Duquesne  at  the  time  of  Brad- 
dock's  ill-fated  expedition.  Besides  Captain  Jack  the  border-ranger,  Braddock  and 
Washington,  Christopher  Gist,  the  Half  King,  Queen  Aliquippa,  James  Smith  and 
other  characters  of  local  interest  are  introduced. 

Maclaren,  Ian,  pseud.     See  Watson,  John  Maclaren. 

McLaughlin,  James  Matthew,  &  Gilchrist,  W.  W.  qj  784.8  M19 

New  educational  music  course;  teachers'  edition  for  elementary 
grades,  including  a  collection  of  rote  songs,  voice-training  exercises, 
the  material  in  the  First  music  reader,  and  songs  from  famous  com- 
posers.    1904.     Ginn. 

MacLeod,  Mary.  j  398.21  M19 

Book  of  ballad  stories,  with  introduction  by  Edward  Dowden. 
[1906.]     Gardner. 

The  stories  of  patient  Griselda  and  of  pretty  Bessie,  the  blind  beggar's  daughter 
of  Bethnal  Green;  of  Robin  Hood  and  his  merry  men;  of  the  heir  of  Linn,  the  jolly 
harper  and  Sir  Cauline,  and  many  another  romantic  tale.     Attractive  illustrations. 

MacLeod,  Mary.  j  398.25  M19 

Book  of  King  Arthur  and  his  noble  knights;  stories  from  Sir 
Thomas  Malory's  Morte  Darthur;  introduction  by  J.  W.  Hales.     St 

"This  book  treateth  of  the  birth,  life  and  acts  of  the  said  King  Arthur  and  of  his 
noble  knights  of  the  Round  Tablr,  their  marvellous  conquests  and  adventures  and  the 
achieving  of  the  Sangrc.il." 

Illustrations  from  drawings  by  A.   G.   Walker. 

MacLeod,  Alary.  j  822.33  H2 

Shakespeare  story-book,  with  introduction  by  Sidney   Lee.    [1902.] 

Gardner. 

Contents:     The  tempest. — T wo  gentlemen  of  Verona. — Much  nothing. — 

A  midsummer-night's  dream.-     Th<    men  bant    Ol    Venice.      As  you   like   it. — The   taming 

of  the  shrew. — Twelfth  night. — Roi  id       Macbeth.     Hamlet.— King  1 

( Ithello.     I  j  mbeline.     The  winter's  tal  rors. 

Much    of    Shakespeare's    language    is    retained.      Many    delightful    illustrations    bv 

Cordon  Browne. 


232 


CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


MacLeod,  Mary.  J  821  S™m 

Stories  from  the  Faerie  queene.     [1900.]     Gardner. 
Adventures  of  the  Red  Cross  knight,  the  perilous  voyages  of  Sir  Guyon  in  search 
of  the  Bower  of  Bliss,  the  quest  of  Britomart,  the  warrior  princess,  and  other  tales  of 
brave  knights  and  fair  ladies,  retold  from  Spenser's  "Faerie  queene. 

McManus,  Blanche,  afterward  Mrs  Mansfield. 

Chola,  our  little  Hindu  cousin.    See  her  Our  little  Hindu  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

McManus,  Blanche,  afterward  Mrs  Mansfield. 

Hamid,  our  little  Arabian  cousin.    See  her  Our  little  Arabian  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

McManus,  Blanche,  afterward  Mrs  Mansfield.  j  9!5-3  M21 

Our  little  Arabian  cousin.     1907.    Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 
"Tells  of  the  comings  and  goings  of  two  little  children  of  the  desert;   how  they 

lived  their  lives ;  their  plays  and  games ;  and  many  of  the  curious  sights  they  saw  as 

they   travelled  about  with   their  parents,   on  one   occasion  visiting   the  great   city   of 

Medina."     Preface. 

McManus,  Blanche,  afterward  Mrs  Mansfield.  j  914-92  M21 

Our  little  Dutch  cousin.     [1912.]     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 
Also  published  under  the  title  "Wilhelmina,  our  little  Dutch  cousin." 
A  little  American  visits  two  little  Dutch  cousins  and  finds  out  many  things  about 

manners  and  customs  in  "the  little  land  of  dikes  and  windmills." 

McManus,  Blanche,  afterward  Mrs  Mansfield.  j  915-4  M21 

Our  little  Hindu  cousin.     1907.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 
Same  as  her  "Chola,  our  little  Hindu  cousin." 
Tells  about  the  bazars  of  India,  the  festival  of  the  goddess  of  learning,  a  journey 

in  an  ox  wagon  to  the  sacred  river  and  the  holy  city  of  Benares,  a  tiger  hunt,  etc. 

McManus,  Blanche,  afterward  Mrs  Mansfield. 

Wilhelmina,   our   little    Dutch    cousin.     See  her   Our    little    Dutch 

cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

MacManus,  Seumas,  comp.  j  398  M21 

Donegal  fairy  stories.     1900.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  The  plaisham. — The  Amadan  of  the  Dough. — Conal  and  Donal  and 
Taig. — Manis  the  miller. — Hookedy-crookedy. — Donal  that  was  rich  and  Jack  that 
was  poor. — The  snow,  the  crow  and  the  blood. — The  adventures  of  Ciad,  son  of  the 
king  of  Norway. — The  bee,  the  harp,  the  mouse  and  the  bum-clock. — The  old  hag's 
long  leather  bag. 

Fairy  tales  of  old  Ireland. 

MacManus,  Seumas.  j  398  M2ii 

In  chimney  corners.     1904.     Doubleday. 

Merry  tales  of  Irish  folklore,  including  Billy  Beg  and  the  bull. — The  queen  of  the 
golden  mines. — Rory  the  robber. — Nanny  and  Conn. — Manis  the  besom  man. — Jack 
and  the  king  who  was  a  gentleman. 

McMaster,  John  Bach.  j  973  M2ip2 

Primary  history  of  the  United  States  [to  1904].     Amer.  Book  Co. 
Maps  and  many  interesting  pictures,  such  as  a  blockhouse,  implements  for  light- 
ing, Stuyvesant's  pear-tree,  Penn's  house,  Indian  tomahawks,  the  redoubt  at  Fort  Pitt, 
the  Old  South  meeting-house. 

McMaster,  John  Bach.  j  973  M21 

School  history  of  the  United  States.     1912.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Good  maps  and  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  233 

McMurry,  Charles  Alexander.  j  9*7-3  M21 

Larger  types  of  American  geography.     1907.     Macmillan. 

Contents:  The  Appalachian  mountains. — The  Rocky  mountains. — The  Pennsyl- 
vania railroad. — The  first  Pacific  railroad. — The  Mississippi  river. — The  iron  and  steel 
business. — Cotton  mills  and  cotton  manufacture. — New  York  city. 

"References"  at  the  end  of  many  of  the  chapters. 

McMurry,  Charles  Alexander.  j  977  M2ip 

Pioneers  of  the  Mississippi  valley.  1906.  Macmillan.  (Pioneer 
history  stories,  bk.2.) 

New  edition  of  "Pioneer  history  stories  of  the  Mississippi  valley." 
Stories  of  La  Salle,  Joliet,  De  Soto,  Boone,  George  Rogers  Clark  and  other  ad- 
venturous explorers  of  the  middle  West. 

McMurry,  Charles  Alexander.  j  917.8  M21 

Pioneers  of  the  Rocky  mountains  and  the  West.  1904.  Macmillan. 
(Pioneer  history  stories,  bk.3.) 

Contents:  Lewis  and  Clark. — Fremont's  first  trip  to  the  Rocky  mountains. — Fre- 
mont's trip  to  Salt  lake  and  California. — Discovery  of  gold  and  trip  to  California  in 
'49. — Powell's  journey  through  the  Grand  canon. — Parkman's  life  in  a  village  of  Sioux 
Indians. — Drake's  voyage  and  visit  to  California. — Coronado's  exploring  trip  in  the 
Southwest. 

McMurry,  Charles  Alexander.  j  923.9  M21 

Pioneers  on  land  and  sea;  stories  of  the  Eastern  states  and  of 
ocean  explorers.     1905.     Macmillan.     (Pioneer  history  stories,  bk.i.) 

Contents:  Champlain  in  New  France. — Henry  Hudson. — Walter  Raleigh. — John 
Smith. — Popham's  settlement. — John  Smith's  description  of  New  England. — Christo- 
pher Columbus. — Ferdinand  Magellan. — Hernando  Cortes. — Ponce  de  Leon. — George 
Washington. 

McMurry,  Charles  Alexander.  j  917.3  M2it 

Type  studies  from  the  geography  of  the  United  States;  first  series. 

1915.     Macmillan. 

Author's   plan   is  to   choose   in   each   locality   the   point   of   most   general   interest. 

May  be  used  in  fourth  and  fifth  grades. 

McMurry,  Mrs  Lida  Brown,  comp.  j  M214C 

Classic  stories  for  the  little  ones;  adapted  from  the  tales  of  Ander- 
sen, Grimm  brothers  and  others.     Public  School  Pub.  Co. 
McMurry,  Mrs  Lida  Brown,  &  Cook,  A.  S.  comp.  j  821.08  M21 

Songs  of  the  tree-top  and  meadow.     1899.     Public  School  Pub.  Co. 
Such  poems  as  How  the  leaves  came  down. — Kris   Kringle. — The  mountain   and 
the  squirrel. — Lady   Moon. — Windy  nights. — Robert   of   Lincoln. — Little   white   lily. — 
Rain  in  summer.     Grouped  under  the  different  seasons.     Suitable  for  primary  grades. 

Macomber,  Hattie  E.  j  926  M21 

Stories  of  great  inventors.     1897.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Contents:  Robert  Fulton. — F.li  Whitney. — Samuel  Morse. — Peter  Cooper. — T.  A. 
Edison. 

Macomber,  Hattie  E.  j  928  M21 

Stories  of  our  authors.     1898.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Contents:      Holmes. — Longfellow. — Hawthorne. — Bryant. — Lowell.— Alcott. 

McSpadden,  Joseph  Walker.  j  394  M22 

Book  of  holidays.     1917.     Crowell. 

Contents:  New  Year's  day. — Lincoln's  birthday. — St.  Valentine's  day. — Washing 
ton's  birthday. — St.   Patrick's  day. — Good   Fri<l  ■    !    I       '    r.      U  13    day.— Arbor  day. 

— Bird    day. — Mothers'    day. — Memorial    day. — Flag    day. —  Independence    day. — Labor 
day. — Columbus  day. — Hallowe'en. — All  Saints'  day. — Election  day. — Thanksgiving, 

Christmas. 


234  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


McSpadden,  Joseph  Walker.  j  782.2  W13 

Stories  from  Wagner.     1905.     Crowell. 

Contents-  The  ring  of  the  curse:  The  Rhine-gold;  The  war  maidens;  Siegfried 
the  fearless;  The  downfall  of  the  gods.— Parsifal  the  pure.— Lohengrin,  the  swan 
knight.— Tannhauser,  the  knight  of  song.— The  master  singers.— Rienzi,  the  last  of  the 
tribunes.— The  Flying  Dutchman.— Tristan  and  Isolde. 

Macy,  Jesse.  J  342-7  M22 

Our  government;  how  it  grew,  what  it  does  and  how  it  does  it. 
1894.     Ginn. 

Contents:  Origin  of  our  governmental  institutions. — Matters  chiefly  local. — The 
administration   of  justice.— Matters  chiefly   Federal.— Constitutions. 

Adapted  for  school  use. 
Madden,  John.  j  590-4  M23 

Forest  friends;  the  woodland  adventures  of  a  boy  pioneer.  1907. 
McClurg. 

Author's  own  experiences  "as  a  boy  in  the  forests  and  along  the  shores  of  Lake 
Michigan.  His  father  was  one  of  the  early  pioneers  who  pushed  on  to  that  region 
when  it  was  still  an  almost  unbroken  wilderness,  and  the  wild  life — from  pumas,  bears 
and  deer  to  wrens  and  suckers — furnishes  the  theme  of  the  book."     Nation,  1907. 

Madison,  Mrs  Lucy  (Foster).  j  M2361TI 

A  maid  at  King  Alfred's  court;  a  story  for  girls.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

"Egwina  the  Fair"  is  a  glee  maiden   who  meets   with  strange  experiences  among 
the  Saxons  and  in  the  camp  of  the  enemy. 
Magruder,  Julia.  j  E476C 

Child-sketches  from  George  Eliot;  glimpses  at  the  boys  and  girls 
in  the  romances  of  the  great  novelist.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  The  childhood  of  George  Eliot. — The  Poyser  children,  from  "Adam 
Bede." — Tom  and  Maggie  Tulliver,  from  "The  mill  on  the  Floss." — The  story  of 
Eppie,  from  "Silas  Marner." — Lillo  and  Ninna,  from  "Romola." — Job  Tudge,  from 
"Felix  Holt." — Brother  and  sister,  a  personal  poem. — The  Garths,  from  "Middle- 
march." — The  little  Cohens,  from  "Daniel  Deronda." — Other  boys  and  girls,  from 
miscellaneous  stories. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.  14-15,  May  1887-July  1888. 

Malone,  Paul  Bernard.  j  M294P 

A  plebe  at  West  Point.    Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Douglas  Atwell  becomes  a  cadet  and  meets  his  old  enemy,  Jackson.  Sequel  to 
"Winning  his  way  to  West  Point." 

Malone,  Paul  Bernard.  j  M294we 

A  West  Point  cadet.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

In  which  Douglas  Atwell  becomes  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  United  States  army. 
Sequel  to  "A  West  Point  yearling." 

Malone,  Paul  Bernard.  j  M294W 

West  Point  yearling.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

In  which  Douglas  Atwell  helps  to  suppress  hazing.  Sequel  to  "A  plebe  at  West 
Point." 

Malone,  Paul  Bernard.  j  M2g4wi 

Winning  his  way  to  West  Point.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Douglas  Atwell,  a  private  in  the  United  States  army  in  the  Philippines,  wins  his 
way  to  West  Point  through  days  of  hardship  and  treachery. 

Malory,  Sir  Thomas.  j  398.25  M29 

Boy's  King  Arthur;  ed.  by  Sidney  Lanier.     1895.     Scribner. 
This  book  is  sent  forth  "to  the  entente  that  noblemen  may  see  and  lerne  the  noble 
actes  of  chyvalrye,   the  jentyl  and  vertuous   dedes  that  somme  knyghtes   used  in   tho 
days,    by    whyche    they    came    to    honour,    and    how    they    that    were    vycious    were 
punysshed,  and  often  put  to  shame  and  rebuke."     Caxton's  Prologue. 

Malory's    book,    the    Morte    Darthur,    was    written    in    the    15th    century    and    was 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIM  235 

Malory,  Sir   Thomas — continued.  j  398.25  M29 

printed  by  Caxton  who  was  the  first  to  introduce  printing  into  England.     This  edition 

has  been  prepared  especially  for  boys. 

flic  same;  illustrated  by  X.  C.  Wyeth.     1917.     Scribner.  .j  398.25  M2ga 
The  introduction  and  some  of  the  episodes  are  omitted.     Added  title-page  in  colors 

and   14  full-page  colored  plates   bringing  out  the  chivalry  and  romance  of  the  middle 

ages. 

Malory,  Sir  Thomas.     Morte  Darthur.     For  adaptation  see 
Brooks,  Edward.     Story  of  King  Arthur  and  the  knights 

of  the  Table  Round j  398.25  B77 

MacLeod,    Mary.      Book   of   King   Arthur   and   his   noble 

knights j  398.25  M19 

Malory,  Sir  Thomas.  j  398.25  M29S 

Story   of   Sir    Galahad;  retold    from    Le    morte    d'Arthur    and    the 

original  stories,  by  M.  B.  Sterling,  illustrations  by  W.  E.  Chapman. 
1908.     Dutton. 

"In  this  book  will  be  read  of  how  King  Pellam  was  wounded  ;  of  how  certain  of 
Arthur's  knights  visited  the  Grail  Castle;  and  of  how  Sir  Galahad  the  Best  Knight  of 
the  World  healed  the  Wounded  King  and  others  and  took  the  Sangreal  back  to  Sar- 
ras  where  he  became  its  last  Keeper  and  King  of  Sarras."     Prologue. 

Mansfield,  Mrs  Blanche  (McManus).     See  McManus,  Blanche. 

Marden,  Orison  Swett.  j  174  M37 

Choosing  a  career.     1905.     Bobbs. 

Talks  about  some  of  the  things  to  be  thought  of  in  choosing  a  life  work  and  some 
suggestions  as  to  possible  careers. 

Partial  contents:  Stumbling  into  an  occupation. — Health  in  its  relation  to  voca- 
tion.— A  career  which  leads  to  aspiration. — The  test  of  leadership. — Getting  on  with 
other  people. — Mercantile  employments. — Women  as  clerical  assistants. — Railroading. 
— The  career  of  an  engineer. — Shall  a  young  man  study  law? — Artistic  photography. 
— Training  to  be  a  nurse. 

Marden,  Orison  Swett.  j  170  M37S 

Success;  a  book  of  ideals,  helps  and  examples  for  all  desiring  to 
make  the  most  of  life.     1897.     Wilde. 

Contents:  Enthusiasm. — Education  under  difficulties. — The  game  of  the  world. — 
Misfit  occupations. — Doing  everything  to  a  finish. — "Help  Yourself  Society." — "I  will." 
— Conduct  as  a  fine  art. — Character-building. — Medicine  for  the  mind. — "This  one 
thing  I  do." — "I  had  a  friend." — Ideals. 

Anecdotes  and  illustrative  examples  chosen  from  history  and  biography  and  in- 
tended to  stimulate  and  encourage  young  people  to  make  the  most  of  themselves  and 
their  opportunities. 

Marden,  Orison  Swett.  j  170  M37W 

Winning  out;  a  book  for  young  people  on  character  building  by 
habit  forming.     1900.     Lothrop. 

Biographical  sketches  of  successful  nun  and  women  who  attained  fame  through 
personal  effort  and  ambition. 

Partial    contents:      Tl  or    who    earned    his    own    sin,,-    [eathei        Eioudin    tin- 

juggler. — The  blacksmith  boy  and  the  battle. — The  Golconda  diamonds.  -The  boy  who 
could  not  beat  a  retreat. — -Wiping  out  the  Alps  from  the  map  of  Europe. — Story  of  the 
little  red  violin. — What  Gen.   Mitchell  said  to  the  new 

Markwick,  William  Fisher,  &  Smith,  \Y.  A.  j  918  M39 

South  American  republics.     1901.     Silver.     (The  world  and  its  peo- 

pie.) 

Geographical  reader,  telling  about  tin  1  industries  ol    B 

Chile,  the  Argentine  Republic,  Peru  and  other  South  American  countries  and  about  the 
manners  and  customs  of  the  people.     Mm 


236  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Marriott,  Crittenden.  J  353  M41 

Uncle  Sam's  business,  told  for  young  Americans.     1908.     Harper. 

Contents:  Uncle  Sam,  ruler:  The  laws;  Intercourse  with  neighbors;  Uncle  Sam's 
money. — Uncle  Sam,  captain  of  industry:  The  working  force;  The  accounts. — Uncle 
Sam,  public  servant:     Looking  after  our  food  supply;  Improving  our  country. 

Marryat,  Capt.  Frederick.  j  M412C 

The  children  of  the  New  forest,  with  illustrations  by  E.  B.  Smith. 
Holt. 

At  the  time  of  the  English  civil  war  the  four  orphan  children  of  a  cavalier  are 
secreted  in  the  New  forest  by  a  keeper  and  brought  up  as  his  grandchildren.  How  the 
ingenious  Humphrey  captured  the  wild  cattle  and  forest  ponies,  how  Edward  saved  the 
life  of  the  intendant's  daughter  and  later  fought  for  the  restoration  of  Charles  the 
Second,  with  much  else  of  interest,  may  be  read  in  this  story. 

Marryat,  Capt.  Frederick.  j  M4i2ma 

Masterman  Ready.     Sully. 

A  desert  island  story.  The  resourceful  old  sailor,  Masterman  Ready,  is  the  hero 
and  among  the  dramatic  incidents  are  the  shipwreck  of  the  "Pacific"  and  the  fight  with 
the  savages. 

Mars,  (pseud  of  Maurice  Bonvoisin).  j  843  M41 

Joies  d'enfants. 

Companion  volume  to  "Nos  cheris,"  picturing  the  plays,  games  and  occupations  of 
children  in  spring,  summer,  autumn  and  winter. 

Mars,  (pseud,  of  Maurice  Bonvoisin).  j  843  M4in 

Nos  cheris. 

Delightful  pictures  of  French  children  at  home,  in  the  city,  at  the  sea-shore  and  in 
the  country. 
Marshall,  Mrs  Emma  (Martin).  j  M4i6in 

In  four  reigns;  the  recollections  of  Althea  Allingham,  1785-1842. 
Seeley. 

Romantic  story  of  Althea  Allingham  from  the  time  when  in  the  days  of  George 
the  Third  she  is  introduced  into  the  society  of  Windsor,  to  the  coronation  of  Queen 
Victoria. 

Marshall,  Mrs  Emma  (Martin).  j  M4i6r 

A  Roman  maiden.    Jacobs.  ""*. 

The  story  of  the  lost  Vestal  is  interwoven  with  that  of  the  persecution  and  martyr- 
dom of  the  early  Christians  in  Britain  and  in  Rome.     Period  of  the  fourth  century. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  994  M41 

Australasia's  story;  told  to  boys  and  girls,  with  pictures  in  colour 

by  J.  R.  Skelton  and  G.  W.  Lambert.     [1912.]     Stokes. 
Contents:    Australia. — New  Zealand. 
Also  included  in  the  author's  "An  empire  story." 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  923.1  M41 

Boy  kings  and  girl  queens.     [1914.]     Stokes. 

Contents:  The  story  of  Otto  III,  the  world's  wonder. — The  story  of  Henry  IV, 
emperor  of  Germany. — The  story  of  Margaret,  queen  of  Scotland,  the  maid  of  Norway. 
— The  story  of  Isabella  of  Valois,  the  little  queen. — The  story  of  Henry  VI,  king  of 
France  and  England. — The  story  of  James  II,  the  fiery  face. — The  story  of  Magdalene 
of  France,  the  midsummer  queen. — The  story  of  Edward  V,  the  captive  king. — The 
story  of  Edward  VI,  the  boy  king. — The  story  of  Mary  Stuart,  the  favourite  of  France. 
— The  story  of  Francis  II,  the  little  king. — The  story  of  Charles  IX,  the  massacre  of 
St.  Bartholomew. — The  story  of  Louis  XIII,  the  king  who  was  always  ruled. — The  story 
of  Louis  XIV,  God-given. — The  story  of  Louis  XV,  the  well  beloved. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  820.9  M41 

Child's  English  literature;  illustrated  with  drawings  in  colour  by 

J.  R.  Skelton.     [1909.]     Stokes. 

"Chronological  list  of  writers  noticed  in  this  volume,"  p. 680. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  237 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth — continued.  j  820.9  M41 

The  author  says,  "I  have  tried  to  show  how  from  a  rough  foundation  of  minstrel 
tales  and  monkish  legends  the  great  palace  of  our  literature  has  slowly  risen  to  be  a 
glorious  house  of  song."  A  few  of  the  stories  are,  In  the  listening  time. — The  begin- 
ning of  the  reading  time. — "The  passing  of  Arthur." — The  story  of  Beowulf.— How 
Caedmon  sang,  and  how  he  fell  once  more  on  silence. — About  some  song  stories. — The 
land  of  Nowhere. — Jonson,  "Every  man  in  his  humour." — Addison,  "The  Spectator." — 
Wordsworth  and  Coleridge,  the  Lake  poets. — Scott,  "the  Wizard  of  the  north." 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  900  M41 

An  empire  story;  stories  of  India  and  the  greater  colonies,  told  to 
children,  with  pictures  by  J.  R.  Skelton.     1908.    Stokes. 

Contents:     Canada. — Australia. — New   Zealand. — South   Africa. — India. 
Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth. 

English  literature  for  boys  and  girls.  See  her  Child's  English  litera- 
ture. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 
Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  qj  944  M41 

History  of  France,  with  pictures  in  colour  by  A.  C.  Michael.  1912. 
Hodder. 

Full  of  romance,  picturesque  incidents,  and  accounts  of  intrigues,  battles  and  great 
events.  Begins  with  the  story  of  how  the  Gauls  bent  the  pride  of  Rome  and  tells  of 
Charles  the  Hammer,  Roland  and  the  defeat  at  Roncesvalles,  Louis  IX  who  took  the 
"cross  of  the  voyage  over  the  sea,"  the  brave  Du  Guesclin  who  fought  his  king's  ene- 
mies, and  Bayard,  the  knight  without  fear  and  without  reproach.  The  last  chapters  tell 
of  the  conquests  of  the  "Little  Corporal,"  the  revolutions  of  1830  and  1848,  Napoleon 
III,  the  second  empire  and  the  third  republic. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  qj  943  M41 

History  of  Germany,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  A.  C.  Michael. 

1913.     Frowde. 

Events  are  grouped  around  central  characters — Hermann,  the  hero  who  saved  the 
Germans  from  the  yoke  of  the  Romans,  Winfred  who  felled  the  Thunder  Oak,  Charle- 
magne, Frederick  Redbeard,  and  others — the  whole  forming  a  continuous  narrative  from 
legendary  times  to  the  reign  of  William  II.     Two  maps. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  942  M41 

Island  story;  a  child's  history  of  England,  with  pictures  by  A.  S. 

Forrest.     [1906.]     Stokes. 

"In  this  book  you  will  find  the  story  of  the  people  of  Britain.  The  story  tells  how 
they  grew  to  be  a  great  people,  till  the  little  green  island  set  in  the  lonely  sea  wis  no 
longer  large  enough  to  contain  them  all."  Begins  with  the  stories  of  Albion  and  Brutus 
and  contains  all  the  interesting  legends  and  hero  tales  in  which  the  history  of  England 
abounds,  such  as  The  story  of  the  "White  Ship." — How  Blondel  found  the  king.  Hen- 
gist's  treachery. — The  story  of  the  poisoned  dagger. — The  story  of  a  make-believe  prince. 
— How  the  princess  Elizabeth  became  a  prisoner. — The  fiery  cross. — The  pipes  at  Luck- 
now. 

Colored  pictures. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  94*  M41 

Scotland's  story;  a  child's  history  of  Scotland,  with  pictures  by  J.  R. 
Skelton,  John  Hassall  and  J.  S.  Crompton.     [1907-]   Stokes. 

Legendary  and  true  history  of  Scotland.  There  is  the  story  of  Macbeth,  of  Robert 
the  Bruce,  of  the  poet  king  and  the  beautiful  lady  of  the  garden,  of  the  "Glen  of  weep- 
ing" and  many  others.     Colored  illustrations. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  829  644m 

Stories  of  Beowulf,  told  to  the  children,  with  pictures  by  J.  R.  Skel- 
ton.    [1908.]     Jack.     (Told  to  the  children  series.) 

How  Beowulf,  the  hero  of  the  Anglo-Saxons,  came  to  Dancland  and  how  he  over- 
came Grendel,  the  ogre,  and  the  w  atcrwitch;  also  how  the  fire  dragon  warred  with  the 
Goth  folk  and  how  Beowulf  fought  his  last  fight. 


238  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  398.26  M41 

Stories  of  Roland,  told  to  the  children,  with  pictures  by  L.  D. 
Luard.     1907.    Jack.     (Told  to  the  children  series.) 

How  Roland  and  Oliver  died,  of  Charlemagne's  vengeance  on  Marsil  the  Saracen 
and  of  the  punishment  of  the  traitor  Ganelon. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  92  T275m 

Stories  of  William  Tell  and  his  friends,  told  to  the  children,  with 

pictures  by  I.  L.  Gloag.     [1907?]     Jack.     (Told  to  the  children  series.) 

How  they  fought  for  Swiss  freedom.  Ends  with  the  victory  of  Morgarten.  For  the 
younger  children. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  92  N1291TI 

Story  of  Napoleon,  with  pictures  by  Allan  Stewart.  [1908.]  Jack. 
(Children's  heroes  series.) 

Tells  of  "the  terrible  passage  of  Lodi"  and  how  Napoleon  won  the  title  of  "Little 
Corporal,"  how  he  became  emperor  of  the  French  and  how  he  fought  his  last  battle. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  92  C8g2m 

Story  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  with  pictures  by  Allan  Stewart.  [1907.] 
Jack.     (Children's  heroes  series.) 

"This  book  is  about  one  of  the  greatest  Englishmen  who  ever  lived — Oliver  Crom- 
well, one  of  the  makers  of  Britain."     Preface. 

He  was  both  a  great  soldier  and  a  wise  statesman  and  he  lived  and  grew  to  power 
during  the  stormy  time  of  the  civil  war  in  England.  Some  of  the  chapters  are,  The 
thimble  and  bodkin  army. — Ironsides. — A  three  days'  battle. — The  battle  of  Dunbar. — 
Willie  Wastle. — Take  away  that  bauble.— The  lord  protector. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  973  M41 

This  country  of  ours;  the  story  of  the  United  States,  with  pictures 
in  colour  by  A.  C.  Michael.     1917.     Doran. 

Continuous  narrative  from  the  days  of  the  Vikings  to  the  entrance  of  the  United 
States  into  the  European  war,  but  dwells  particularly  on  the  early  history  of  the  country 
— the  tales  of  explorers  and  pioneers,  of  the  colonists  and  their  struggle  for  liberty. 
Emphasizes  the  picturesque  incidents. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  g2  Ni2gma 

Through  Europe  with  Napoleon.     [1912.]     Stokes.  • 

Binder's  title  reads  "Through  Europe  and  Egypt  with  Napoleon." 
Interesting  account  of  Napoleon's  life  and  military  conquests. 

Marshall,  Henrietta  Elizabeth.  j  92  C892ma 

Through  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  with  Cromwell.    [1912.]    Stokes. 

Mainly  an  account  of  Cromwell's  part  in  the  English  civil  war  and  of  his  rise  to 
power  as  lord  protector. 

Martin,  Edward  A.  j  553.2  M42 

Story  of  a  piece  of  coal;  what  it  is,  whence  it  comes  and  whither  it 
goes.     1905.     Appleton. 

Brief  record  of  vegetable  and  mineral  history  of  coal,  its  discovery,  early  use,  min- 
ing, and  products — gas,  illuminating  oils,  coal-tar  colors,  etc. 

Martin,  Mrs  George  (Madden).  j  M427a 

Abbie  Ann.     Century. 

Abbie  Ann  is  a  little  red-haired  girl  of  nine.  The  story  tells  of  her  experiences  in 
Coal  City,  a  mining  town  in  the  Alleghany  mountains,  and  why  she  went  to  boarding- 
school. 

Martineau,  Harriet.  j  M431C 

Crofton  boys.     Heath. 

Story  of  English  school-boy  life  in  which  one  of  the  boys  has  a  sad  accident  and 
bears  himself  bravely. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  239 

Martineau,  Harriet.  j  M43if 

Feats  on  the  fiord;  a  tale  of  Norway.     Routledge. 
Story   of   country   life   in    Norway   setting    forth,    particularly,    the   betrothal    of   the 

superstitious  peasant  maid   Erica  with  Rolf,  his  sudden  disappearance,   and  his   heroic 

rescue   from  a   hidden   cavern   on   a   lonely   island. 

Martineau,  Harriet.  j  M431P 

The  peasant  and  the  prince;  a  story  of  the  French  revolution.    Ginn. 
The  prince  is  the  unfortunate  dauphin,  son  of  Louis  XVI  of  France,  and  the 
follows  the  fortunes  of  the  royal   family   during  the  stormy  scenes   of  the  French   revo- 
lution. 

Marvin,  F.  S.  and  others.  j  883  H7501T1 

Adventures  of  Odysseus  retold  in  English.     Dutton. 

One  of  the  best  versions  of  the  Homer  story  for  boys  and  girls  to  read  for  them- 
selves.    Pictures  by  Charles  Robinson. 

Masefield,  John.  j  M444J 

Jim  Davis.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 
Adventures  of  an  English  boy  who  meets  the  night  riders  carrying  their  contraband 

cargo   across  the   Devonshire  moors  and   is  afterward  captured  and   carried  off  by   the 

smugglers. 

Masefield,  John.  j  M444I 

Lost  endeavour.     Macmillan. 

In  the  days  of  press-gangs,  buccaneers  and  privateers,  an  English  school-boy  and 
one  of  his  masters,  known  as  "Little  Theo,"  are  kidnapped  and  sold  into  slavery,  one 
in  Virginia  and  the  other  in  Jamaica.  Each  has  strange  adventures,  culminating  in  an 
expedition  to  save  the  treasure  of  gold  and  mysterious  relics  in  an  ancient  Indian  temple. 

Masefield,  John.  j  M4441T1 

Martin  Hyde,  the  duke's  messenger.     Little. 

The  boy  hero  enlists  in  the  service  of  the  duke  of  Monmouth  and  thereafter  shares 
in  the  stirring  events  of  the  rebellion  of  1685.     Story  ends  with  the  battle  of  Sedgemoor. 

Mason,  Alfred  Bishop.  j  M448to 

Tom  Strong,  boy-captain;  a  story  of  America.     Holt. 
Sequel  to  "Tom  Strong,  Washington's  scout."     An  Indian  raid,  a   flat-boat   voyage 

from  Pittsburgh  to  New  Orleans,  and  Shay's  rebellion  are  among  the  incidents.      Ends 

with  the  inauguration  of  Washington. 

Mason,  Alfred  Bishop.  j  M448tm 

Tom  Strong,  junior;  a  story  of  the  young  United  States.     Holt. 
;•  Follows  "Tom  Strong,  boy-captain."     "Tom  Strong,  junior"  serves  in  some  of  the 
great  naval  battles  of  the  War  of   1812,  witnesses  the  bombardment  of   Baltimot' 
by  steamboat  down  the  Ohio  and  Mississippi  and  takes  part  in  the  battle  of  New  O 
Other  historical   episodes  introduced   are  the    Burr-Hamilton    duel,   the   flight    of    Dolly 
Madison   from  Washington  and   the   Clermont's   first   trip  up  the  Hudson. 

Mason,  Alfred  Bishop.  j  M443t 

Tom  Strong,  Washington's  scout;  a  story  of  patriotism.     Grosset. 

(Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

As  Washington's  scouts,  "Plucky  Tom"  and  Zed  the  trappei    take  part  in  thi 

Island  campaign,  the  crossing  of  the   Delaware,  the  battli  I  owpens  am 

events  of  the  American  revolution.     W,  Hale,    lndr£,  Arnold   and   I  ornwallia 

are  among  the  characters  of  the  story. 

Mathews,  Basil  Joseph.  j  92  L74gm 

Livingstone,  the  pathfinder.  1012.  Missionary  Education  Move- 
ment of  the  United  States  and  Canada. 

Ad'  Emphasizes  his  bravery  and  resourcefulness  amid  thr 

dangers  and  difficulties  of  his  missionary  journeys  in  central  Africa, 


24o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Mathews,  Ferdinand  Schuyler.  j  57°-4  M47 

Familiar  features  of  the  roadside;  the  flowers,  shrubs,  birds  and 
insects.     Ed. 2.     1907.     Appleton. 

Beginning  with  early  spring,  describes  flowers,  shrubs,  birds  and  insects  common 
along  the  highway,  and  wood  and  field  paths.  Contains  some  record  of  bird  music. 
Well  illustrated. 

Mathews,  Ferdinand  Schuyler.  j  582  M47a 

Familiar  trees  and  their  leaves,  with  illustrations  in  colors.  [Ed.3, 
rev.]     1911.    Appleton. 

Mathews,  Ferdinand  Schuyler.  j  580  M47a 

Field  book  of  American  wild  flowers;  a  short  description  of  their 
character  and  habits,  a  concise  definition  of  their  colors,  and  refer- 
ences to  the  insects  which  assist  in  their  fertilization.     1912.     Putnam. 

Numerous   illustrations,  including  24  colored   plates. 

Mathewson,  Christopher.  j  796.31  M47 

Pitching  in  a  pinch;  or,  Baseball  from  the  inside,  with  an  introduc- 
tion by  J.  N.  Wheeler.  1912.  Grosset.  (Every  boy's  library;  boy 
scout  edition.) 

"Stories  of  the  famous  pitcher's  experiences  in  the  big  leagues,  with  which  he  has 
been  connected  for  eleven  years,  and  comments  on  the  'games'  of  a  large  number  of 
players  whom  he  has  studied  from  the  pitcher's  box."     Booklist,  1912. 

Mathiews,  Franklin  K.  ed.  j  M4732b 

Boy  scouts  book  of  stories.    Appleton. 

Contents:  The  great  big  man,  by  Owen  Johnson. — A  twilight  adventure,  by  M.  D. 
Post. — Tad  Sheldon,  second  class  scout,  by  J.  F.  Wilson. — The  red-headed  league,  by 
A.  C.  Doyle. — The  ransom  of  Red  Chief,  by  O.  Henry. — The  honk-honk  breed,  by 
S.  E.  White. — The  devil-fish,  by  Norman  Duncan. — The  jumping  frog,  by  Mark 
Twain. —  Bingism,  by  Booth  Tarkington. — Chonco  Curly  at  the  op'ra,  by  E.  B.  Bron- 
son. — The  lie,  by  Hermann  Hagedorn. — Story  of  the  bandbox,  by  R.  L.  Stevenson. — 
The  hero  and  the  cowboy,  by  J.  C.  Lincoln. — The  dollar,  by  Morgan  Robertson. — The 
mascot  of  "Troop  I,"  by  Stephen  Chalmers. — The  lion's  smile,  by  T.  W.  Hanshew. — 
The  roll-call  of  the  reef,  by  A.  T.  Quiller-Couch. — The  house  and  the  brain,  by  Ed- 
ward Bulwer-Lytton. 

Published  for  the  Boy  scouts  of  America. 

Matthews,  Brander,  comp.  j  811.08  M47 

Poems  of  American  patriotism.     1882.     Scribner. 

The  poems  are  arranged  in  the  order  of  the  events  which  they  celebrate,  so  that 
the  collection  forms,  as  nearly  as  possible,  a  history  of  America  as  told  by  her  poets. 

Matthews,  Brander.  j  M479to 

Tom  Paulding;  the  story  of  a  search  for  buried  treasure  in  the 
streets  of  New  York.  Grosset.  (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edi- 
tion.) 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 19,  Nov.  1891-Oct.  1892. 
Matthews,  Franklin.  j  973.7  M47 

Our  navy  in  time  of  war  (1861-1898).     1899.     Appleton. 

Describes  the  chief  naval  events  of  the  Civil  and  Spanish-American  wars. 
Maud,  Constance  Elizabeth.  j  782.2  M48 

Wagner's  heroes.    Arnold. 

Contents:     Parsifal. — Hans  Sachs. — Tannhauser.— Lohengrin. 
Maud,  Constance  Elizabeth.  j  782.2  M48W 

Wagner's  heroines.     1896.    Arnold. 

Contents:     Brunhilda. — Senta. — Isolda. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  241 

Maule,  Harry  Edward.  j  609  M48a 

Boy's  book  of  new  inventions.     Rev.  ed.     1914.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  The  aeroplane. — Aeroplane  development. — Aeroplanes  to-day. — Artificial 
lightning  made  and  harnessed  to  man's  use. — The  motion  picture  machine. — -Adventure-; 
with  motion  pictures. — Steel  boiled  like  water  and  cut  like  paper. — The  Tesla  turbine. — 
The  romance  of  concrete. — The  latest  automobile  engine. — The  wireless  telegraph  up  to 
the  minute. — More  marvels  of  science. — New  engines  of  war. 

May,  Mrs  Georgiana  Marion   (Craik).     Sec  Craik,  Georgiana  Marion. 

Maynard,  Colton.  j  M538e 

Elliott  Gray,  jr.;  a  chronicle  of  school  life.     Revell. 

As  president  of  his  class,  Elliott  Gray  has  interesting  experiences  during  his  first 
year  at  Arlington  preparatory  school  and  develops  unusual  qualities  of  leadership. 

Meadowcroft,  William  Henry.  j  537  Mssa2 

A  B  C  of  electricity,  including  wireless  telegraphy.     1915.     Harper. 

Outlines  in  simple  language  principles  of  electricity  and  explains  their  application  in 
telegraph,  telephone,  electric  light  and  motive  power. 

Meadowcroft,  William  Henry.  j  92  E288111 

Boy's  life  of  Edison,  with  autobiographical  notes  by  Mr  Edison. 
1911.     Harper. 

Account  of  Edison's  boyhood  experiences  as  a  newsboy  on  a  railway  train  and  as  a 
telegraph  operator;  also  of  his  later  work  and  the  many  inventions  which  have  brought 
him  fame.     Many  amusing  anecdotes  are  told  in  his  own  words. 

Meigs,  Cornelia.  j  793.1  M57 

The  steadfast  princess;  a  play  for  young  people.     1916.    Macmillan. 

"Tells  the  story  of  a  little  princess,  who  is  discovered  helping  a  toymaker  in  his 
shop  and  who  is  brought  to  her  kingdom,  where  she  finds  it  a  difficult  task  to  remain 
true  to  her  ideals  and  her  people's  best  interests.  Won  the  prize  in  a  contest  conducted 
by  the  Drama  League  of  America."    Booklist,  1916. 

Mendel,  Mrs  Florence  Emma  (Voigt).  j  914.36  M61 

Our  little  Austrian  cousin.     1913.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

This  little  cousin,  who  lives  in  Vienna,  visits  a  farm  in  upper  Austria,  travels 
through  the  Tyrol  and  the  border  provinces,  and  hears  many  Austrian  and  Tyrolese 
legends. 

Mendes,  Mmc  Judith  (Gautier).    Sec  Gautier,  Judith. 

Merington,  Marguerite.  j  812  Mb3f 

Festival  plays;  one-act  pieces  for  New  Year's  day,  St.  Valentine's 

day,  Easter,  All  Hallowe'en,  Christmas  and  a  child's  birthday.     1913. 

Duffield. 

Contents:    Father  Time  and  his  children  (New  Year's  day). — Tertulla's  garden;  or. 

The  miracle  of  good   St.   Valentine    (Valentine's  day). — The  seven   sleepers   of    E] 

(Easter). — Princess    Moss   Rose    (for   every   child's   birthday). — The    testing    of    5il    I  la 

wayne   (Hallowe'en). — A  Christmas  party    (Christmas). 

Merriam,  Florence  Augusta,  afterward  Mrs  Bailey.  j  598.2  M63b 

Birds  of  village  and  field.     1898.     Houghton. 

"Books  of  reference,"  p. 390-394. 

A  bird  book  for  beginnn '8,  containing  di  scriptions  of  common  birds,  migration  lists, 
a  color  key,  an  outline  for  field  ol  and  many  pictures, 

Merriam,  Florence  Augusta,  afterward  Mrs  Bailey.  j  598.2  M53 

Birds  through  an  opera  glass.     1895.     Houghton. 

Many  of  th<    mor<    common   American  birds  are  described  and  prai 
given  for  their  identification  and  Btudy, 


242  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Merz,  Heinrich.  j  92  Lg28m 

Louise,  queen  of  Prussia;  tr.  from  the  German  by  G.  P.  Upton. 
1911.     McClurg.     (Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

Short  biography  of  a  queen  who  was  noted  for  her  beauty  and  goodness  and  for 
her  patriotic  spirit  at  a  time  of  national  calamity. 

Mijatovich,  Mme  Elodie  Lawton,  tr.  j  398  M68 

Serbian  fairy  tales;  tr.  from  the  Serbian;  illustrated  by  Sidney  Stan- 
ley.    1918.     McBride. 

Miles,  Alfred  Henry,  ed.  j  590  M63# 

Natural  history,  with  anecdotes  illustrating  the  habits,  manners  and 
customs  of  animals.     1895.     Dodd. 

Same  as  "Universal  natural  history." 
Colored  plates. 

Miller,  Charles  M.  j  533.6  M69 

Construction  and  flying  of  kites.  1909.  Manual  Arts  Press.  (Man- 
ual training  reprints;  ser.  A,  no.i.) 

"Bibliography  of  kites  in  periodical  literature,"   p. 26-28. 

Gives  simple  directions  with  drawings  for  making  different  kinds  of  kites.  The 
author  is  organizer  of  an  annual  kite  tournament  in  Los  Angeles  and  he  gives  a  de- 
scription of  the  one  held  in  1909. 

Miller,  Charles  M.  j  533.6  M6gk 

Kitecraft  and  kite  tournaments.     [Ed.2.]     1915.    Manual  Arts  Press. 

"Bibliography  of  kites,"  p.142-144. 

Construction,  decoration  and  manipulation  of  kites,  balloons,  parachutes  and  model 
aeroplanes. 

Miller,  Claude  Harris.  j  796  M69 

Outdoor  sports  and  games.  191 1.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library 
of  work  and  play.) 

Contents:  Introductory. — The  Boy  Scouts  of  America. — Camps  and  camping. — 
Camp  cooking. — Woodcraft. — Use  of  fire-arms. — Fishing. — Nature  study. — Water  life. — 
The  care  of  pets. — The  care  of  chickens. — Winter  sports. — Horsemanship. — How  to 
swim  and  to  canoe. — Baseball. — How  to  play  football. — Lawn  tennis. — Photography. — 
Outdoor  sports  for  girls. — 100  outdoor  games. 

Miller,  Mrs  Ellen  Bell  (Robertson).  j  595.78  M69 

Butterfly  and  moth  book;  personal  studies  and  observations  of  the 
more  familiar  species,  with  illustrations  from  drawings  by  the  author 
and  photographs  by  J.  L.  King  and  others.     1917.     Scribner. 

Miller,  Mrs  Harriet  (Mann).    See  Miller,  Olive  Thorne. 

Miller,  Joaquin,  pseud.  j  599.7  M69 

True  bear  stories.     1900.     Rand. 

Contents:  A  bear  on  fire. — Music-loving  bears. — My  first  grizzly. — Twin  babies.— 
In  swimming  with  a  bear. — A  fat  little  editor  and  three  little  browns. — Treeing  a  bear. 
—Bill  Cross  and  his  pet  bear. — The  great  grizzly  bear. — As  a  humorist.— A  grizzly's 
sly  little  joke. — The  grizzly  as  Fremont  found  him. — The  bear  with  spectacles. — The 
bear-slayer  of  San  Diego. — Alaskan  and  polar  bear. — Monnehan,  the  great  bear-hunter 
of  Oregon. — The  bear  "Monarch;"  how  he  was  captured. 

Miller,  Margaret.  j  598.2  M694 

My  Saturday  bird  class.     1899.     Heath. 

Contents:  The  robin. — Bluebird  and  sparrows. — The  swallows. — Woodpeckers. — 
The  wren. — Billy  Wren's  housekeeping. — Screech-owls. — Cuckoo  and  cow-bunting. — 
Fly-catchers. — The   bird   class   at   school. — A   picnic. — Migration. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  243 

Miller,  Mrs  Mary  (Rogers).  j  630  M69 

Outdoor  work.  191 1.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library  of  work  and 
play.) 

Contents:  The  best  ways  of  earning  money.— Harvesting  nature's  crops. — Raising 
domestic  animals. — Raising  animals  for  pets. — Work  and  play  with  trained  animals. — 
Making  brooks  and  springs  useful. — Keeping  bees.— Raising  silkworms. — Making  collec- 
tions.— Odd  jobs. — Making  the  country  a  better  place  to  live  in. — Free  printed  matter, 
how  to  get  it. 

"The  outdoor  worker's  library,"  p.516-519. 

Miller,  Olive  Beaupre.  j  811  M69 

Come  play  with  me;  illustrated  by  C.  L.  Browne.     1918.     Volland. 

Verses  for  little  children,  attractively  illustrated. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  598.2  M69 

Bird-ways.     1894.     Houghton. 

The  American  robin,  wood-thrush,  European  song-thrush,  cat-bird,  redwing,  black- 
bird,  Baltimore  oriole  and  house-sparrow  are  here   described. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  598.2  M6gf 

First  book  of  birds.     1899.     Houghton. 

"Authorities,"  pref.  p. 4-5. 

About  the  baby  bird's  home  and  education,  the  way  a  bird  travels,  sleeps  and 
changes  his  clothes,  the  peculiarities  of  his  beak,  tongue,  eyes,  ears,  etc.  and  how  lie 
works  for  us. 

Eight  colored  plates  and  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  599.8  M69 

Four-handed  folk   [monkeys].     1896.     Houghton. 

Descriptions  of  monkeys  kept  by  the  author  as  pets,  a  kinkajou,  or  "night-monkey," 
two  or  three  frisky  lemurs,  a  group  of  marmosets,  a  spider-monkey,  and  so  on,  the  nar- 
rative being  rounded  out  with  chapters  on  that  remarkable  chimpanzee,  Mr  Crowley, 
and  with  notes  on  the  peculiarities  of  baby  monkeys. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  M6g42kri 

Kristy's  queer  Christmas.     Houghton. 

Fourteen  short  stories  told  to  Kristy  one  Christmas  eve.  Among  them,  A  droll 
Santa  Claus. — How  a  bear  brought  Christmas. — Carol's  good  will. — How  a  toboggan 
brought  fortune. — The  telltale  tile. — May's  happy  thought. — The  magic  figure.— Christ- 
mas in  the  alley. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  M6g42kr 

Kristy's  rainy  day  picnic.     Houghton. 

Another  book  about  Kristy,  consisting  of  a  budget  of  stories  told  mi  a  rainy  day. 
A  few  of  them  are,  A  schoolgirl's  joke. — Molly's  secret  room. — The  locket  told. — 
Christmas  in  a  baggage-car. — How  a  bear  came  to  school. — How  Kate  found  a  baby. 

Colored  illustrations. 

Miller,  Oliver  Thorne.  j  M6g42k 

Kristy's  surprise  party.     Houghton. 

Each  guest  at  Kristy's  birthday  party  tells  a  story.  Among  the  tales  are,  \  run- 
away pie. — Faith  Kennedy's  fight. — Lost  in  the  fire. — Tin-  que*  1  family  next  door. — 
Hope's  Christmas  tree. — Marie's  mission. — A  mystery  in  the   kitchen. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  598.2  M69I 

Little  brothers  of  the  air.     1898.     Houghton. 

"Entertaining  observations  on  the  home  life  and  family  manners  of  many  New  V.ny,- 
land  birds."     Nation. 

Partial  contents:    The  kingbird's  nest      \  Home 

life  of  the  redstart. — When  nesting  is  over. — In  search  of  the  blue  jay,  -Thai  witching 
song. — A  June  round  of  calls. — The  wiles  of  a  •■  trbler.  \  rain]  day  tramp.  Two  little 
drummers. 


244  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  J  59°4  M69 

Little  folks  in  feathers  and  fur  and  others  in  neither.  1894.  Dutton. 
Talks  about  penguins,  armadillos,  ant-bears,  ear-wigs,  chameleons  and  many  other 

curious  animals,  birds  and  insects. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  915  M69 

Little  people  of  Asia.     1896.     Dutton. 

Curious  stories  of  little  people  from  babyhood  up — Turkish,  Syrian,  Persian,  Kirghiz, 
Hindu,  Tibetan,  Tartar,  Siamese,  Siberian,  Eskimo,  Tuski,  Chinese  and  Japanese. 

Some  of  the  titles  are,  The  salted  baby. — The  oiled  baby. — The  baby  who  never 
cries. — The  dyed  baby. — Babies  under  the  snow. — Babies  up  in  the  corner. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  598.2  M69S 

Second  book  of  birds;  bird  families.     1901.     Houghton. 

Follows  "First  book  of  birds"  and  tells  about  particular  birds,  about  the  families 
they  belong  to,  and  the  different  ways  in  which  they  live.  The  hermit-thrush,  the  oven- 
bird,  the  Baltimore  oriole,  the  cedar-bird,  the  kingfisher,  and  the  woodpecker  are  among 
the  birds  described.     Contains  eight  colored  plates  and  16  other  full-page  illustrations. 

Miller,  Olive  Thorne.  j  598.2  M6gt 

True  bird  stories  from  my  note-books.     1903.     Houghton. 

"All  the  stories  in  this  book  are  strictly  true.  Nearly  all  of  them  are  my  own  ob- 
servation, part  of  them  studies  of  captives  in  my  own  Bird  Room,  and  the  rest  of  birds 
in  the  field."    Preface. 

A  few  of  the  titles  are,  The  bird  that  would  not  be  free. — The  droll  tanager. — A 
madcap  thrush. — The  baby  robin. — The  saucy  oriole. — Antics  in  the  bird  room. — Barn 
swallows  in  a  frolic. — How  the  crow  baby  was  punished. — The  ducklings  who  would  not 
give  up. 

Miller,  Sara.  j  M69511 

Under  the  Eagle's  wing.    Jewish  Pub.  Soc.  of  America. 
Story  of  a  Jewish  boy,  and  how  he  became  the  favorite  disciple  of  Maimonides,  the 

"Eagle  of  Israel."    Time  of  the  crusades. 

Miller,  Warren  Hastings.  j  799  M69 

The   boys'   book   of    hunting   and    fishing;    practical    camping-out, 

game-fishing  and  wing-shooting;  foreword  by  Dan  Beard.    1916.    Doran. 

Mills,  Enos  Abijah.  j  599.7  M699 

The  grizzly,  our  greatest  wild  animal.     1919.     Houghton. 
Author  has  studied  the  grizzly   for  many  years,   watching   "his   actions  under  a 

variety  of  influences — fighting  and  playing,  sleeping  and  food-getting."     Includes  many 

anecdotes   illustrating   the   bear's   curiosity,    sagacity   and   power    of   adaptation    to    a 

changed  environment.     Photographic  illustrations. 

Mills,  Enos  Abijah.  j  M699S 

Story  of  Scotch.     Houghton. 

For  eight  years,  Scotch,  a  faithful  collie,  lived  with  his  master  high  up  in  the 
Rockies.  Winter  and  summer  they  explored  the  rugged  mountains  and  together  fought 
their  way  through  blizzards  and  forest  fires. 

Mills,  James  Cooke.  j  609  M69 

Searchlights  on  some  American  industries.  1911.  McClurg. 
Contents:  Lumber;  the  conquest  of  the  forest. — Salt;  the  salt  of  the  earth. — Sugar; 
the  science  of  sugar-making. — Paper;  from  peat  and  wood  pulp  to  paper. — Rubber;  from 
milk  of  tree,  vine  and  plant  to  finished  products.— Leather;  the  art  of  tanning  and  the 
making  of  leather  goods. — Moulding;  moulding  machine  practice. — Graphite;  the  value 
of  graphite  in  the  mechanic  arts.— Sightless  workers;  achievements  of  the  blind. 

Milton,  John.  j  g2i  M71 

L'Allegro,  and  II  Penseroso,  together  with  the  sonnets  and  odes. 
Putnam. 

Partial  contents:  To  the  nightingale.— When  the  assault  was  intended  to  the  city. 
—On  his  blindness.— On  the  morning  of  Christ's  nativity.— Song  on  May  morning. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  245 

Mirick,  George  Alonzo.  J  910  M73 

Home  life  around  the  world,  with  illustrations  by  Burton  Holmes. 

1918.    Houghton. 

Geographical  reader.     Some  of  the  chapter  headings  are,  A  home  on  the  ice. — 

In   the  land  of   the   reindeer. — A  country   of   mountain   pastures. — With    Ahmed    in    the 

oasis. — A  day  with  Pedro  in  the  jungle. — Taming  wild  elephants. — A  brave  Hawaiian 

princess. 

Suitable  for  fourth  grade. 

Mitchell,  Donald  Grant.  j  928  M74 

About  old  story-tellers.     191 1.     Scribner. 

Contents:    First  printers  and  their  homes. — The  Arabian  nights. — Goldsmith's  work. 

Gulliver  Swift. — An  Irish  story-teller. — Two  French  friends. — Fairy  realm. — A  Scotch 

magician. — Robinson  Crusoe. — How  a  tinker  wrote  a  novel. 

Mitton,  Geraldine  Edith.  j  91421  M75 

Children's  book  of  London.     1903.     Black. 

Contents:     London  as  it  is. — Historical  stories. — The  sights  of  London. 
Colored  pictures. 

Mix,  Jennie  Irene.  j  566  M75 

Mighty  animals;  short  talks  about  some  of  the  animals  which  lived 

on  this  earth  before  man  appeared,  with  an  introduction  by  F.  A.  Lucas. 

1912.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

"There  were  giants  in  those  days  of  old"  and  in  this  little  book  the  author   tells 

about   some   of   them — the    mighty   dinosaurs,    the   flying    reptiles,    the    mammoths    and 

mastodons  and  other  strange  beasts  of  the  ancient  world.     Illustrated. 

Miyatovic,  Mme  Elodie  (Lawton).     See  Mijatovich,  Mine  Elodie  Law- 
ton. 
Moffat,  Alfred.  QJ  782.8  M76 

Christmas  dream;  a  cantata  for  children  (with  action);  words  writ- 
ten by  K.  R.  Moffat,  the  music  composed  by  Alfred  Moffat.  1892. 
Novello. 

Moffat,  Alfred.  j  784-8  M76I 

Little  songs  of  long  ago;  "more  old  nursery  rhymes,"  the  original 
tunes  harmonized  by  Alfred  Moffat;  illustrated  by  H.  W.  Le  Mair. 
1912.     Augener. 

Contains  30  full-page  colored  oictures. 

Moffat,  Alfred.  j  784-8  M76 

Our  old  nursery  rhymes;  the  original  tunes  harmonized  by  Alfred 
Moffat,  illustrated  by  H.  W.  Le  Mair.     191 1.    Augener. 

Moffett,  Cleveland.  j  604  M76 

Careers  of  danger  and  daring.     1901.     Century. 

Contents:  The  steeple-climber. — The  deep-sea  diver. — The  balloonist. — The  pilot. — 
The  bridge-builder. — The  fireman. — The  aerial  acrobat. — The  wild-beast  tamer. — The 
dynamite  worker. — The  locomotive  engineer. 

Mokrievitch,  Vladimir  de   Bogory.     See  DebogoriT-Mokri'evich,  Vlad- 
imir Karpovich. 
Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M78gcar 

"Carrots,"  just  a  little  boy,  and  other  stories.     Macmillan. 

Story  of  the  love  and  care  of  a  motherly  little  girl  for  her  younger  brother,  and 
of  the  "plans"  which  they  made  and  carri.il  out   together. 

Other  stories       \   Christmas  child.  -The  oriel  window.— The  carved  lions. 


246  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Molesworth,  Mrs  Alar}-  Louisa.  j  M78gca 

Carved  lions.     Macmillan. 

An  unhappy  little  girl  runs  away  from  boarding-school  and  has  a  strange  ride  over 
land  and  sea  on  the  "carved  lions." 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M78gch2 

Christmas-tree  land.     Macmillan. 

What  happened  to  Rollo   and   Maia  in  a  visit  to  "Christmas-tree  land." 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M789CU2 

The  cuckoo  clock.     Macmillan. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  in  color  by  M.  L.  Kirk.    Lippin- 
cott j  M789CU3 

Contains  also  "The  castle  in  the  lough." 

The  same,  and  The  tapestry  room.     Macmillan j  M789CU 

The  first  story  is  about  Griselda  and  the  magical  cuckoo  and  the  curious  things  they 
saw  together  in  the  country  of  the  nodding  mandarins,  Butterfly-land  and  the  other  side 
of  the  moon.  "The  tapestry  room"  tells  about  the  wonderful  dreams  and  adventures  of 
some  French  children  who  live  in  an  old  chateau. 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M78912 

Four  Winds  farm.     Macmillan. 

Story  of  a  dream}',  fanciful  little  boy  living  high  up  among  the  moors  "where  the 
four  winds  meet." 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M78gg2 

Grandmother  dear.     Macmillan. 

How  three  little  English  children  went  to  France  to  live  with  "grandmother  dear," 
and  the  stories  which  she  told  them. 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M789ma 

The  magic  nuts.     Macmillan. 

By  means  of  the  magic  nuts  Hildegarde  and  Leonore  enter  the  country  of  fairies 
where  they  visit  Gnomeland  and  Tree-top  land  and  have  other  good  times  with  the 
"spinning-wheel  fairy." 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M789mi 

Miss  Mouse  and  her  boys.     Macmillan. 

Story  of  five  English  boys  and  a  girl,  and  their  life  at  Moor  Edge. 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M789112 

Nurse  Heatherdale's  story.     Macmillan. 

The  finding  of  a  secret  room  and  the  treasure  of  old  Sir  David,  as  told  by  Nurse 
Heatherdale.  * 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M78gro 

Robin  Redbreast;  a  story  for  girls.     Chambers. 

Robin  Redbreast  is  a  beautiful  old-fashioned  country  home,  where  Lady  Myrtle 
gives  Jacinth,  Francis  and  Eugene  good  times,  and  where  many  nice  things  happen. 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M78gta 

The  tapestry  room.     Macmillan. 

The  wonderful  dreams  and  adventures  of  some  French  children  who  live  in  an  old 
chateau. 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M78gt 

Tell  me  a  story,  and  other  stories.     3v.  in  1.     Macmillan. 

Other  stories:  Adventures  of  Herr  Baby. — Little  Miss  Peggy. — Nurse  Heather- 
dale's  story. 

Molesworth,  Mrs  Mary  Louisa.  j  M789U2 

Us;  an  old-fashioned  story.     Macmillan. 

Story  of  a  little  boy  and  girl,  twins,  who  always  called  themselves  "Us"  and  of  what 
happened  to  them  in  a  gipsy  camp. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  247 

Moncrieff,  Ascott  Robert  Hope,  (pseud.  Ascott  R.  Hope;.      qj  910  M81 

Round  the  world.     [1905.]     Blackie. 

Picture-book  with  easy  reading  telling  about  children  in  Holland,  Belgium,  France, 
Egypt,  Malta,  China,  South  America,  India,  Lapland,  Macedonia,  Canada,  the  Tyrol, 
Morocco,  Spain,  Italy,  Fiji  islands,  etc. 

Moncrieff,  Ascott  Robert  Hope,  (pseud.  Ascott  R.  Hope).      j  910  M8iw 
The  world,  with  illustrations  in  colour.     1908.     Black.     (Peeps  at 
many  lands  series.) 

Contents:  England. — Scotland. — Wales. — Ireland. — France.  —  Holland  and  Belgium. 
— Germany. — The  Baltic  countries. — Switzerland. — Austria  Hungary. — Italy. — The  Span- 
ish peninsula. — Greece. — Turkey. — Russia. — Japan.-— China. — Siam  and  Burma. — India. 
— The  Holy  Land. — Egypt  and  Abyssinia. — The  land  of  the  Moors. — The  Sahara  and 
the  Soudan. — Equatorial  Africa. — South  Africa. — Australia.— Xew  Zealand. — Melanesia 
and  Micronesia. — Polynesia. — The  West  Indies. — South  America. — Central  America. — 
The  United  States. — Canada. 

Monteith,  John.  j  599  M85 

Familiar  animals  and  their  wild  kindred.     1887.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Anecdotes  and  information  about  dogs,  cats,  horses  and  the  more  familiar  wild 
animals.     For  supplementary  reading  in  the  third  or  fourth  grade. 

Montgomery,  David  Henry,  comp.  j  821.08  M86 

Heroic  ballads,  with  poems  of  war  and  patriotism.     1896.     Ginn. 

Sixty-eight  poems  of  war  and  patriotism,  such  as  Horatius. — Bannock-burn. —Execu- 
tion of  Montrose. — -Relief  of  Lucknow. — Ballad  of  Agincourt. — Battle  of  the  Baltic. — 
Song  of  Marion's  men. — Sheridan's  ride. — Eve  of  Waterloo. 

Most  of  the  selections  are  suitable  for  declamation. 

Montgomery,  David  Henry.  j  973  M861 

Leading  facts  of  American  history  [to  1916].     Ginn.     (Leading  facts 

of  history  series.) 

"Short  list  of  books  on  American  history,"  app.  p. 30-36. 

Montgomery,  Lucy  Maud.  j  M864a 

Anne  of  Green  gables.     Page. 

How  Anne  was  adopted,  her  school  days,  her  treats,  picnics,  parties  and  good 
friends;  a  story  of  Canadian   farm  and  village  life. 

Montorgueil,  Georges,  (pseud,  of  Octave  Lebesque).  qj  92  N1291T10 

Bonaparte  [texte  de  Georges  Montorgueil,  aquarelles  de  Job,  pseud, 
de  Jacques  Onfroy  de  Breville].     1912. 

Large  volume.  Text,  which  is  in  French,  gives  an  account  of  Napol  on's  lite  to 
the  time  when  he  became  emperor.  The  full-page  pictures  in  color  depict  realistically 
important  scenes  and  dramatic  events — the  military  school  at  Brienne,  the  attack  on 
Toulon,  the  return  from  Egypt  to  France,  the  crossing  of  the  St.  Bernard,  the  distri- 
bution of  crosses  of  the  Legion  of  Honor  to  the  soldiers  at  Boulogne,  the  coronation 
ceremony,  and  others. 

Montorgueil,  Georges,  (pseud,  of  Octave  Lebesque).  j  92  Mg7im 

Murat;    texte    de    G.    Montorgueil,    aquarelles    de    Job    [pseud,    de 

Jacques  Onfroy  de  Breville]. 

Forty  full-page  colored  plates  picturing   realistically  the  stirring  events  in  the  life 

of  the  innkeeper's  son  who  gained  faun-  as  a  dashing  cavalry  le.id.-r   in   the   Napoleonic 

wars  and  became  marshal  of  France  and  king  of   Naples.     Text   is  in   French, 

Monvel,  Maurice  Boutet  <1<-    See  Boutet  de  Monvel,  Maurice. 

Moon,  Frederick   Franklin.  j  6349   M87 

Book  of  forestry.     1916.     Appleton. 

"List  ot"  reference  1 ks  on  forestry,"  p.297 

The  first  part  treats  of  the  value  of  forests  and  the  need  of  conservation,  also  of 
the  life  and  work  of  a  forester.  The  second  pari  deals  with  the  identification  of  trees 
and  woods.      Many   pictures. 


248  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Moon,  Grace  Purdie,  &  Moon,  Carl.  j  M875I 

Lost  Indian  magic;  a  mystery  story  of  the  red  man  as  he  lived  be- 
fore the  white  man  came;  illustrations  and  decorations  by  Carl  Moon. 

Stokes. 

Kay-yah,  the  swift  and  strong,  goes  forth  alone  in  search  of  the  lost  magic  of  his 
tribe,  and  many  are  his  adventures  on  the  desert  trails  and  in  the  camp  of  the  enemy 
before  the  mystery  of  the  little  blue  bear  is  finally  solved. 

Moore,  Clement  Clarke.  j  811  M87 

Twas  the  night  before  Christmas;  a  visit  from  St.  Nicholas,  with 

pictures  by  J.  W.  Smith.     1912.     Houghton. 

Moore,  Harris  W.  j  684  M87 

Manual  training  toys  for  the  boy's  workshop.     1912.     Manual  Arts 

Press. 

Plates  and  working  directions  for  making  darts,  flying  tops,  kites,  windmills  and 
many  other  toys. 

Moore,  Henry  Keatley,  comp.  j  784.8  M876 

Nursery  song  book;  traditional  nursery  songs,  illustrated  by  May 

Sandheim.     [1906.]      Routledge. 

Moore,  Mrs  N.  (Hudson).  qj  757  M87 

Children   of  other  days;   notable   pictures   of   children    of  various 

countries  and  times,  after  paintings  by  great  masters,  with  stories  and 

descriptions.     1905.     Stokes. 

Picture-book   with    short   stories   telling   about    famous    baby    kings    and    queens, 

princes  and  princesses,  dukes  and  duchesses. 

Moore,  Nina.     See  Tiffany,  Mrs  Nina  (Moore). 

Moore,  Thomas.  j  821  M87 

Lalla  Rookh.     1892.     Crowell. 

An  oriental  romance  containing  the  poems,  "The  veiled  prophet  of  Khorassan," 
"Paradise  and  the  peri,"  "The  fire-worshippers,"  and  "The  light  of  the  haram"  as  told 
by  a  young  poet  of  Cashmere  to  the  princess,  Lalla  Rookh. 

"But  long,  upon  Araby's  green  sunny  highlands, 
Shall  maids  and  their  lovers  remember  the  doom 
Of  her,  who  lies  sleeping  among  the  Pearl  Islands, 
With  nought  but  the  sea-star  to  light  up  her  tomb. 
And  still,  when  the  merry  date-season  is  burning, 
And  calls  to  the  palm-groves  the  young  and  the  old, 
The  happiest  there,  from  their  pastimes  returning 
At  sunset,  will  weep  when  thy  story  is  told." 

From  The  fire-worshippers. 

Moores,  Charles  Washington.  j  g2  L7i5mo 

Life  of  Abraham  Lincoln  for  boys  and  girls.     1909.     Houghton. 

"To  give  to  children  an  understanding  of  [Abraham  Lincoln's]  great  life,  an 
appreciation  of  the  simplicity  and  purity  of  his  literary  style,  and  a  love  of  the  man, 
has  been  the  purpose  of  this  little  book."    Preface. 

Moores,  Charles  Washington.  j  g2  Qiifm. 

Story  of  Christopher  Columbus.     1912.     Houghton. 

Contains  portrait,  maps  and  other  illustrations,  some  of  them  reproduced  from  old 
prints  and  drawings  of  the  time  of  Columbus. 

Moran,  George  Newell.  j  97o.i  M88 

Kwahu,  the  Hopi  Indian  boy.     1913.     Amer.  Book  Co. 
This  brave  son  of  an  Indian  chief  is  supposed  to  have  lived  just  before  the  coming 
of  the  white  men.     The  story  attempts  to  give,  as  far  as  possible,  a  true  account  of  the 
Hopi   Indian    life   of    the   time.      Contains   pictures   of    baskets,    prayer   sticks,    medicine 
boxes,  eating  bowls,  dance  rattles  and  other  objects  of  Hopi  handiwork. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  249 

Morgan,  Alfred  Powell.  j  621.3  M89 

Boy  electrician;  practical  plans  for  electrical  apparatus  for  work 
and  play,  with  an  explanation  of  the  principles  of  every-day  electricity. 
1913.     Lothrop. 

Includes  chapters  on  magnetism,  wireless  telegraphy,  electrical  units  and  measur- 
ing instruments.     Illustrated. 

Morgan,  Alfred  Powell.  j  533.652  M89 

How  to  build  a  20-foot  bi-plane  glider.     1909.     Spon. 

Brief  illustrated  directions  for  construction  and  operation. 

"The  glider  herein  described  is  the  type  developed  by  Octave  Chanute  and  may  be 
considered  the  parent  of  the  biplane  machines." 

Morgan,  Mrs  Mary  Ella  (Hughes).  j  646  M89 

How  to  dress  a  doll.     [1908.]     Altemus. 

Here  are  clothes  to  be  made  for  each  member  of  the  doll  family — aprons,  dresses, 
coats  and  caps,  with  quaint  costumes  for  fancy  dress  parties.  The  patterns  are  simple 
and  the  directions  easy  to  follow.  The  small  pictures  show  how  to  work  different 
stitches  to  trim  the  doll  frocks  and  also  make  plainer  the  various  steps  in  sewing. 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  595.79  M91 

Bee  people.     1899.    McClurg. 

"All  about  bees — queen,  workers  and  drones.  Tells  about  their  12,603  eyes,  how 
they  get  honey,  how  they  comb  their  hair,  and  how  they  feed  their  babies."  New  York 
State  Library,  Best  books  of  1899. 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner. 

Butterflies  and  bees.    See  her  Insect  folk. 
v.2  title  reads  "Butterflies  and  bees." 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  Mgnd 

Donkey  John  of  the  Toy  valley.     McClurg. 

His  real  name  was  John  Hofer  and  he  lived  high  up  among  the  mountains  of  the 
Tyrol  where  he  herded  goats  in  summer  and  coasted  down  the  steep  and  dangerous 
snow-covered  slopes  in  winter.  How  he  went  to  live  among  the  wood-carvers  in  the 
Toy  valley,  won  his  name  of  "Donkey  John,"  saw  the  fair  in  the  town  below  the  mountain 
and  climbed  the  Big  Alp,  may  be  read  in  this  story.  Quaint  drawings  of  toy  animals  at 
the  head  of  each  chapter. 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  580.4  M91 

Flowers  and  their  friends.     1897.     Ginn. 

Contents:  Morning-glory  stories. — Stories  about  the  geranium  family.  —Hyacinth 
stories. — Stories  about  all  sorts  of  things. 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  595-72  M91 

Grasshopper  land.     1907.     McClurg. 

How  grasshoppers  jump,  about  their  swords,  stings  and  drills,  and  many  other  inter- 
esting facts  about  grasshopper  folk  and  about  locusts,  katydida   and   crickets. 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  595-7  M9* 

Insect  folk.     2v.     1903-05.     Ginn. 

v.2  title  reads  "Butterflies  and  bees." 

About  butterflies,  bees,  wasps,  ants,  flies,  grasshoppers,  crickets  and  other  insects. 
Illustrated  by  the  author.  . 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  581.54  M91 

Little  wanderers.     1901.     Ginn. 

Describes  some  of  the  many  methods  by  which  i>lant  seeds  arc  dispersed,  Excel- 
lent illustrations. 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  581  M91 

Seed-babies.     1901.     Ginn. 

The  bean  children  and  the  peanut  children,  the  mil. ins  and  their  cousins,  and  Other 
seed-babies  talk  with  a  little  boy  and  tell  him   what  they  eat  and   how  they   grow. 


250  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Morley,  Margaret  Warner.  j  595-79  Mgiw 

Will  o'  the  wasps.     1913.     McClurg. 

Uncle  Will  and  little  Theodore  watch  hornets,  yellow-jackets  and  other  wasps,  learn- 
ing about  their  appearance  and  habits  and  the  way  they  build  their  nests.  Conversa- 
tional style. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  920  M91 

Heroes  of  progress  in  America.     1906.     Lippincott. 

Contents:  Roger  Williams. — John  Eliot. — William  Penn. — James  Oglethorpe. — 
Benjamin  Franklin. — Patrick  Henry. — Samuel  Adams. — Thomas  Jefferson. — Robert 
Morris. — Alexander  Hamilton. — John  Adams. — Eli  Whitney. — Robert  Fulton. — John 
Jacob  Astor. — Stephen  Girard. — John  Marshall. — Henry  Clay. — Daniel  Webster. — J.  C. 
Calhoun.— S.  F.  B.  Morse.— C.  W.  Field.— Elias  Howe.— C.  H.  McCormick.— Charles 
Goodyear. — DeWitt  Clinton. — Horace  Wells. — W.  L.  Garrison. — Wendell  Phillips. — 
Charles  Sumner. — Lucretia  Mott.— E.  C.  Stanton. — S.  B.  Anthony. — Dorothea  Dix. — 
George  Peabody. — Peter  Cooper.— Abraham  Lincoln. — W.  H.  Seward. — J.  G.  Blaine. 
— Horace  Greeley. — John  Ericsson. — T.  A.  Edison. — F.  E.  Willard. — Clara  Barton. — 
Andrew  Carnegie. — B.  T.  Washington. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  923.5  Mgih 

Heroes  of  the  army  in  America.     1906.     Lippincott. 

Short  sketches  of  American  soldiers  from  Washington  to  Gen.  Miles,  the  Sioux 
and  Apache  Indian  fighter.  Among  others,  includes  Israel  Putnam,  the  ranger  and 
warrior;  Ethan  Allen,  the  chief  of  the  Green  mountain  boys;  Anthony  Wayne,  the 
stormer  of  Stony  Point;  Henry  Lee,  the  Light  Horse  Harry  of  '76;  William  Henry 
Harrison,  the  hero  of  Tippecanoe ;  Samuel  Houston,  the  winner  of  Texan  independ- 
ence, and  the  principal  Civil  war  leaders  on  both  sides. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  923.5  M91 

Heroes  of  the  navy  in  America.     1907.     Lippincott. 

Contents:  Jeremiah  O'Brien. — Nicholas  Biddle. — J.  P.  Jones. — Richard  Dale. — 
John  Barry. — Benedict  Arnold. — Samuel  Tucker. — Joshua  Barney. — Thomas  Truxton. 
— Edward  Preble. — William  Bainbridge. — Stephen  Decatur. — Johnston  Blakeley. — 
Isaac  Hull. — Jacob  Jones. — James  Lawrence. — Charles  Morris. — David  Porter. — O.  H. 
Perry. — Thomas  Macdonough. — S.  C.  Reid. — Charles  Stewart. — M.  C.  Perry. — D.  G. 
Farragut. — D.  D.  Porter. — W.   B.   Cushing.— George  Dewey.— R.   P.  Hobson. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  973  Mgia 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  American.  2v.  1908.  Lip- 
pincott. 

Stories  of  discovery,  adventure,  patriotism  and  Indian  warfare,  extending  in  time 
from  the  voyage  of  the  vikings  to  Vineland  to  the  sinking  of  the  Albemarle  in  the 
Civil  war  and  the  home-coming  of  Gen.  Lee  and  his  veterans. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  942  Mgia 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  English.    1908.    Lippincott. 

True  stories  of  heroic  and  romantic  events  in  English  history  from  Saxon  times 
to  the  19th  century. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  944  Mgisa 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  French.    1908.    Lippincott. 

True  stories  of  heroic  and  romantic  events  in  French  history  from  the  fourth  cen- 
tury to  the  fall  of  Napoleon. 

Morris,  Charles.  ,  j  Q43  Mgia 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  German.    1908.    Lippincott. 

True  stories  of  heroic  and  romantic  events  in  German  history  from  the  first  to  the 
19th  century. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  g3g  Mgia 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Greek.     1908.     Lippincott. 

Partial  contents:  The  voyage  of  the  Argonauts.— The  seven  against  Thebes.— The 
Athenians  at  Marathon.— How  the  Spartans  died  at  Thermopylae.— Platxa's  famous 
day.— The  retreat  of  the  ten  thousand.— The  Olympic  games 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— ATTHOR  LIST  251 

Morris,  Charles.  j  952  M915 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Japanese  and  Chinese. 
1908.     Lippincott. 

Partial  contents:  The  first  of  the  mikados. — How  civilization  came  to  Japan. — 
The  Bayard  of  Japan. — The  opening  of  Japan. — How  the  empire  of  China  arose  and 
grew. — Confucius,  the  Chinese  sage. — Three  notable  women. — A  female  Richelieu. — 
The  Tartars  and  Genghis  Khan. — The  death-struggle  of  China. — The  expulsion  of  the 
Mongols. — The  rise  of  the  Manchus. — How  Europe  entered  China. — Corea  and  its 
neighbors. — Progress   in   Japan   and   China. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Japan 
and  China." 

Morris,  Charles.  j  937  M91 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Roman.     1908.     Lippincott. 

Stirring  tales  of  Roman  history  from  mythical  times  to  the  downfall  of  the  west- 
ern empire. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  947  M91 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Russian.    1908.    Lippincott. 

Partial  contents:  The  ancient  Scythians. — Vladimir  the  Great. — The  lawgiver  of 
Russia. — Ivan,  the  first  of  the  czars.- — The  conquest  of  Siberia. — Kosciusko  and  the 
fall  of  Poland. — The  charge  of  the  Light  Brigade.— The  fall  of  Sebastopol.— The  nihil- 
ists and  their  work. — An  escape  from  the  mines  of  Siberia. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  948  M91 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Scandinavian.  1908.  Lip- 
pincott. 

Stories  are  selected  from  the  history  of  Norway,  Sweden  and  Denmark  and  range 
in  time  from  early  days  to  1905.  They  tell  of  such  heroes  as  Ragnar  Lodbrok,  Harold 
the  Fair-haired,  Olaf,  the  slave  boy  who  won  a  throne,  Canute  the  Great  and  Gustavus 
Vasa. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  946  M91 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Spanish.    1908.    Lippincott. 

Stories  of  knights,  kings,  discoveries,  battles  and  sieges  from  the  year  600  to  the 
Cuban  war. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  972  M91 

Historical  tales,  the  romance  of  reality;  Spanish-American.  1908. 
Lippincott. 

Partial  contents:  Balboa  and  the  discovery  of  the  Pacific. — The  famous  retreat  ol 
Cortez  and  the  Spaniards. — Drake,  the  sea-king,  and  the  Spanish  treasure-ships, — Sir 
Walter  Raleigh  and  the  quest  for  El  Dorado. — Toussaint  L'Ouverture  and  the  revolu- 
tion in  Hayti. — Bolivar,  the  liberator,  and  the  conquest  of  New  Granada. —  Maximilian 
of  Austria  and  his  empire  in  Mexico. — Maceo  and  the  struggle  t<>r  Cuban  independ 
ence. 

Morris,  Charles.  j  974. 8  M91 

History  of  Pennsylvania.     1912.     Lippincott. 
"Chronological  table  of  interesting  events  in    Pennsylvania,"  P.31S   .<-'-' 

Morris,  Charles.  j  910  M91 

Home  life  in  all  lands.     3V.     1908-11.     Lippincott. 

V.I,       HOW    THE    WORLD    LIVES:       At    the    world's    ■  I  in  1  n  t;  t  able.       In    the    WOrld'l    I 

shop. — In  the  world's  dressing  room.  \t  hom<  with  the  world's  people.  —  In  the 
world's  kitchen  and  parlor. — Hunting-field,  pasture  and  farm.  The  tool  makers  oi  the 
world. — Meetings   and  greetings   in    all    lands. 

v. 2.  Manners  and  customs  op  uncivilized  people!  Kings  and  theii  courts  snd 
customs. — Laws  and  penalties  among  savage  peoples  Modes  oi  courtship  and  mar 
riage. — The  two  ends  of  life.— The  arts  oi  travel  and  transportation,  —  How  men  Eight 
for  home  and  country.  —  Primitive  arts  of  manufacture-  How  the  world  amuses  itself. 
— Among  the  world's  worshipers. 


252  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Morris,  Charles— continued.  j  910  M91 

v.3.  Animal  friends  and  helpers:  Household  pets  and  comrades. — Our  single- 
hoofed  helpers. — Cloven-hoofed  draught  animals. — Animals  which  yield  food  to  man. — 
The  birds  of  the  poultry  yard. — Winged  and  tuneful  home  pets. — Our  cousin  the 
monkey. — Other  animals  used  as  pets.— Wild  animals  in  man's  service. 

Morris,  William.     Earthly  paradise.    For  adaptation  see 

Underdown,  Emily.    The  gateway  to  romance j  821  Mgig 

Morris,  William.  j  821  Mgis 

Story  of  Sigurd  the  Volsung  written  in  verse,  with  portions  con- 
densed into  prose  by  Winifred  Turner  and  Helen  Scott.  1910.  Long- 
mans. 

"How  the  foes  of  God  he  slew; 
How  forth  from  the  darksome  desert  the  Gold  of  the  Waters  he  drew ; 
How  he  wakened  Love  on  the  Mountain,  and  wakened  Brynhild  the  Bright, 
And  dwelt  upon  Earth  for  a  season  and  shone  in  all  men's  sight." 

Morris,  William.  j  Mgi8s 

The  Sundering  Flood.    Longmans. 

Telleth  the  tale  of  the  lad  Osberne  who  dwelt  by  the  Sundering  Flood — how  it 
fared  with  him  among  the  dalesmen,  how  he  overcame  the  evil  folk  and  got  him  a 
new  name,  and  of  his  search  for  the  lost  maid  of  the  Hart  Shaw  knolls. 

Morrison,  Mrs  Mary  J.  (Whitney),  cotnp.  j  821.08  M919 

Songs  and  rhymes  for  the  little  ones.     1896.     Page. 

Collection  for  the  younger  children,   including  many  old  favorites. 

Morrison,  Sarah  Elizabeth.  j  M919C 

Chilhowee  boys.     Crowell. 

The  Chilhowee  boys  emigrate  from  North  Carolina  to  Tennessee  in  181 1.  The 
story  tells  of  their  perilous  journey  of  400  miles  over  the  mountains,  of  the  life  in  the 
new  country  and  the  various  experiences  with  bears  and  Indians  which  fell  to  their  lot. 

Mortensen,  Karl  Andreas.  j  293  M92 

Handbook   of   Norse   mythology;   tr.    from   the    Danish   by   A.    C. 

Crowell.     1913.     Crowell. 

Contents:  General  introduction. — How  the  world  was  created. — The  gods  and 
their  life. — Ragnarok. — Common  popular  belief. — Chief  gods  and  myths  of  the  gods. — 
Forms  of  worship  and  religious  life. — Hero  sagas. — Conclusion. 

Moseley,  Edwin  Lincoln.  j  581.97  M93 

Trees,  stars  and  birds;  a  book  of  outdoor  science.  1919.  World 
Book  Co.     (New-world  science  series.) 

"A  list  of  books  on  trees,"  p.  156;  "A  list  of  books  on  stars,"  p. 264;  "A  list  of 
books  on  birds,"  p. 396. 

Adapted  for  sixth  and  seventh  grades.  Contains  star  maps,  drawings  and  photo- 
graphic reproductions,  including  16  in  color  by  L.  A.   Fuertes. 

Moses,  Belle.  j  Q2  C233m 

Lewis  Carroll  in  Wonderland  and  at  home;  the  story  of  his  life. 
1910.     Appleton. 

*  i.Giv£!Mn?*y  anecdotes  of  the  author  of  "Alice's  adventures  in  Wonderland"  and 
ot  his  child  friends.  Tells  how  the  stories  came  to  be  written  and  includes  many  of 
the  nonsense  verses  also  a  chapter  on  the  riddles  and  odd  games  and  puzzles  in  which 
Lewis  Carroll  delighted. 

Moses'  BeIle-  j  92  R368m 

Paul  Revere,  the  torch  bearer  of  the  Revolution.  1918.  Appleton. 
k  ♦  ^"J?  -^f r%!!Ved  in  an  eP°ch-making  period  and  is  known  as  the  hero  of  a  cele- 
brated ride  This  account  of  his  life  tells  also  of  other  services  in  the  cause  of 
liberty  and  of  his  work  as  an  engraver  and  metal-worker. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  253 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398.8  M93D 

Book  of  nursery  rhymes,  arranged  by  Charles  Welsh.    1901.    Heath. 

Many    pictures. 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  qj  398.8  M93D0 

Boyd   Smith   Mother   Goose,  with   numerous   illustrations   in   color 

and  in  black  and  white   from  original   drawings  by   E.  B.   Smith;  the 

text   carefully   collated   and   verified   by    Lawrence    Elmendorf.      1919- 

Putnam. 

Includes  a  reprint  of  the  original   "Mother   Goose's   melody"  as   issued   by   John 

Newbery  of  London  and   Isaiah  Thomas  of  Worcester;   also   "The  pleasant   history   of 

little  Jack  Horner"  and  "The  famous  history  of  Tom  Thumb." 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398.8  Mg3mj 

The  Jessie  Willcox  Smith  Mother  Goose;  a  careful  and  full  selec- 
tion of  the  rhymes,  with  illustrations.     1914.     Dodd. 

Large  oblong  book,  with  17  full-page  plates,  most  of  them  in  color,  and  numerous 
pen  and  ink  sketches.  The  first  51  rhymes  with  their  morals  represent  the  original 
English  edition  published  by  John  Newbery.  They  are  taken  from  a  facsimile  repro- 
duction of  the  American  reprint  of  Isaiah  Thomas. 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398.8  M93I 

The  little  Mother  Goose,  with  illustrations  by  J.  W.  Smith.  1918. 
Dodd. 

Twelve  color  plates  selected  from  those  in  "The  Jessie  Willcox  Smith  Mother 
Goose,"  but  reduced  in  size.     Includes  342  of  the  rhymes. 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398.8  Mg3bu 

Mother  Goose  in  silhouettes,  cut  by  K.  G.  Buffum.  1907-  Hough- 
ton. 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398.8  Mg3mg 

Mother  Goose;  or,  The  old  nursery  rhymes;  illustrated  by  Kate 
Greenaway.     Warne. 

Very  dainty  edition,  with  48  pictures  in  color.     Bound  in   picture  boards. 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398.8  M93 

Mother  Goose's  melodies;  or,  Songs  for  the  nursery.  1878.  Hough- 
ton. 

Good  collection.     Music  is  given   for  nine  of  the   rhymes. 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  7848  M93 

Mother  Goose's  nursery  rhymes  and  nursery  songs,  set  to  music 
by  J.  W.  Elliott.     McLoughlin. 

Simple  melodies  suitable  for  children's  voices.      Many   picture!. 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398. 8  Mg3oh 

Old  Mother  Goose  nursery  rhymes;  illustrated  by  E.  S.  Hardy. 
[i9ro.]     Nister.     (Children's  classics.) 

Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398-8  M930I 

The   old   nursery   rhymes;   illustrated   by   Arthur   Rackham.      1913. 

Century. 

With  many  black  and  white  drawings  and   la  full-page  colored  pi 


254  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Mother  Goose  melodies.  j  398.8  M930 

The  only  true  Mother  Goose  melodies;  an  exact  reproduction  of 
the  text  and  illustrations  of  the  original  edition  published  and  copy- 
righted in  Boston  in  the  year  1833  by  Munroe  &  Francis,  with  intro- 
duction by  E.  E.  Hale.     1905.    Lothrop. 

Illustrated  with  old-time  woodcuts. 

Motley,  John  Lothrop.  j  949.2  M94S 

Siege  of  Leyden;  condensed  from  The  rise  of  the  Dutch  republic; 
ed.  by  W.  E.  Griffis.     1901.     Heath. 

Thrilling  chapter  on  the  brave  and  sturdy  defense  of  Leyden  against  the  Spanish 
by  the  Dutch,  with  an  introduction  telling  of  the  action  preliminary  to  the  siege  and 
of  the  connection  of  Leyden  with  American  history.  Illustrations  from  Dutch  prints 
and  photographs. 

Mott,  Sarah  Minnie,  &  Dutton,  M.  B.  j  910  M94 

Fishing  and  hunting.     1905.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:     In  Eskimo  land  with  Hans. — In  the  woods  with  Red  Feather. — In   the 
Philippines  with  Tondo. — In  Alaska  with  Ola. 
For  the  younger  children. 

Motte-Fouque,  baron  de  la.     See  La  Motte-Fouque,  Friedrich  Heinrich 
Karl,  baron  de. 

Mowry,  William  Augustus,  &  Mowry,  A.  M.  j  609  M94 

American  inventions  and  inventors.     1900.     Silver. 

Contents:     Heat. — Light. — Food. — Clothing. — -Travel. — Letters. 

Mowry,  William  Augustus.  j  353  Mg4a 

Elements  of  civil  government;  local,  state  and  national;  a  course 
for  schools.     1898.     Silver. 

With  this  is  bound  "Elements  of  civil  government  in  the  commonwealth  of  Penn- 
sylvania," by   G.   M.    Philips. 

Mowry,  William  Augustus,  &  Mowry,  A.  M.  j  973  Mg4a 

First  steps  in  the  history  of  our  country.     1914.     Silver. 
Short  accounts  of  the  principal   characters   in   the  history   of  our   country   and  of 

the   great    events    in    which   they   took   part.      Includes    sketches    of    Farragut,    Horace 

Mann,    Clara    Barton   and   Edison. 

Muir,  John.  j  M953S 

Stickeen.     Houghton. 

Brief  narrative  of  the  author's  perilous  escape  from  an  Alaskan  glacier  during  a 
storm,  with  the  dog  Stickeen  as  his  only  companion. 

Muir,  John.  j  92  Mg53m 

The  story  of  my  boyhood  and  youth.  1913.  Houghton. 
The  first  chapter  tells  about  Muir's  boyhood  in  Scotland,  near  the  North  sea. 
When  he  was  n  years  old  the  family  crossed  the  Atlantic  in  a  sailing  vessel  and 
settled  in  Wisconsin  and  the  following  chapters  describe  the  joys  of  those  early  days 
in  a  new  land,  the  animals  and  birds  found  there,  the  life  on  the  farm,  his  cellar  work- 
shop and  novel  inventions.     Illustrated. 

Mulets,  Lenore  Elizabeth.  j  Mg54b 

Bird  stories.     Page.     (Phyllis'  field  friends.) 

Contains  stories  and  poems  of  the  chickadee,  robin,  swallow,  kingfisher,  great 
blue  heron,  red-headed  woodpecker  and  other  birds.  A  few  of  the  titles  are,  The 
halcyon  birds. — A  legend  of  the  Northland.— Saved  by  a  lark. — Robert  of  Lincoln. — 
The  sandpiper.— In  cap  of  red. — With  the  water  watchman. 


CHILDREN'S    HOOKS     AITHOR   LIST  2SS 

Muller,  Julius  Washington.  j  Mgs8r 

Rulers  of  the  surf;  a  story  of  the  mysteries  and  perils  of  the  sea. 

Appleton. 

The  hero,  when  a  baby,  is  saved  from  a  wreck  and  brought  up  in  a  fishing  village. 

Best  chapters  are  those  telling  of  the  bravery  of  the  life-savers  and  the  excitement  of 

deep-sea  fishing. 

Mulock,  Dinah  Maria.     See  Craik,  Mrs  Dinah  Maria   (Mulock). 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j   Mg68a 

At  war  with  Pontiac.     Scribner. 

Adventures  of  a  white  boy  and  girl  during  the  siege  of  Detroit  by  the  Indian 
war-chief   Pontiac. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68b 

Big  Cypress;  the  story  of  an  Everglade  homestead.     Wilde. 

Tells  of  the  fast  friendship  of  a  Seminole  Indian  and  a  trader's  son  for  a  Northern 
family  who  settle  at  the  Big  Cypress.     Also  shows  the  wrongs  of  the  Seminole  Indians 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68cab 

Cab  and  caboose.  Grosset.  (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edi- 
tion.) 

"Railroad  Blake"  works  his  way  up  in  the  railroad  business,  through  some  ex- 
citing experiences   with  tramps,  train-robbers   and   wrecks. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68c 

Campmates;  a  story  of  the  plains.     Harper. 

The  hero  accompanies  a  government  exploring  party  to  the  Pacific  coast.  He  is 
captured  by  Indians,  lost  in  a  snow-storm  and  meets  with  Kit  Carson. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68ca 

Canoemates.     Harper. 

Two  boys  make  a  trip  from  Key  West  along  the  Florida  reef  to  the  western  coast 
of  the  mainland,  and  thence  through  the  Everglades  to  the  Atlantic.  They  have  nu- 
merous adventures   with  terrible  storms,   wild  animals,   thieves   and   Seminole    Indians. 

Munroe,   Kirk.  j  Mg68ch 

Chrystal,  Jack  &  Co.,  and  Delta  Bixby.     Harper. 

The   first  story   tells  how  Chrystal,   the  sister-mother  of  the  orp!  chil- 

dren, cares  for  the  little  household  at  "Ingle  Dell."  The  other  story  tells  of  a  boy's 
adventures  in  Florida. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68de 

Derrick  Sterling.     Harper. 

Derrick  is  a   brave  young   fellow   who   is   forced    t"   earn   a   living   BS   .1    b 
in  a  Pennsylvania  coal-mine. 

Munroe,   Kirk.  j   Mg68d 

Dorymates;  a  tale  of  the  fishing  banks.     Harper. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j   Mg68f 

Flamingo  feather.     Harper. 

Exciting  adventures  of  a  French  lad  among  the  Spaniards  and  the  Florida  Indians 
300   years   ago. 

Munroe,   Kirk.  J   Mg68fu 

Fur-seal's  tooth.     Harper. 

The  hero  is  shipwrei  esolate  island,  lost  in  a  "bidarkii 

and  has  strange  e  ding  vessel  and 

ter.     Gives  a  good  idea  of  the  crui  a!  fishing.     "Snow  shoi 

the  sequel  to  this  book. 


256  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH. 


Munroe,  Kirk.  J  Mg68p 

Prince  Dusty.     Putnam. 

Story  of  the  Pennsylvania  oil  region,  telling  about  moonlighters,  boring  for  oil 
and  shooting  wells. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  J  Mg68r 

Raftmates.     Harper. 

Chase  after  a  runaway  raft  on  the  Mississippi  and  adventures  with  counterfeiters 
and  river  boats. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  J  Mg68re 

Ready  rangers;  a  story  of  boys,  boats  and  bicycles,  fire-buckets 
and  fun.     Lothrop. 

Munroe,  Kirk,  &  Catherwood,  Mrs  Mary  (Hartwell),  ed.  j  Mg68sto 

School  and  college  days.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  li- 
brary, new  ser.  v.7.) 

Contents:  The  cruise  of  the  Dolphin,  by  T.  B.  Aldrich. — The  turning-point  in 
Tom's  school  career,  by  Thomas  Hughes. — How  we  were  taken  to  be  examined,  by 
Peter  Rosegger. — Leaving  school,  by  W.  M.  Thackeray. — Doctor  Garde's  little  girl 
at  school,  by  M.  H.  Catherwood. — Paradise,  by  Susan  Coolidge. — Mr  Verdant  Green 
does  as  he  has  been  done  by,  by  Cuthbert  Bede. — At  school  at  Lowood,  by  Charlotte 
Bronte. — Coquette's  arrival,  by  William  Black. — John  Ridd's  school  days,  by  R.  D. 
Blackmore. — A  Russian  boy's  tutor,  by  Count  L.  N.  Tolstoi. — Spelling  for  the  prize, 
by  J.  T.  Trowbridge. — The  Gradgrind  method,  Paul's  education,  by  Charles  Dickens. 
— Tom  Tulliver's  first  half  and  the  new  schoolfellow,  by  George  Eliot. — School  days 
in  New  England,  by  J.  F.  Clarke. — Schoolroom  and  meeting-house,  by  Lucy  Larcom. 
— Maisie,  by  Rudyard  Kipling. — Dorothy  Deane's  trip  to  the  city,  by  E.  W.  O.  Kirk. 
— The  household  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  by  Anne  Manning. — How  Hope  earned  her 
fiddle,  by  Nora  Perry.— Glory  McWhirk,  by  Mrs  A.  D.  T.  Whitney. — Parson  Polly, 
by  K.  D.  Wiggin. — Fun  out  of  school,  by  C.  D.  Warner. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68s 

Snow-shoes  and  sledges.     Harper. 

Hunting,  sledging  and  camping  adventures  among  the  Eskimos.  Sequel  to  "The 
fur-seal's  tooth." 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68t 

Through  swamp  and  glade.     Scribner. 

Story  of  adventures  during  the  Seminole  war,  and  of  the  bravery,  friendships  and 
trials  of  the  Florida  Indians. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68u 

Under  orders.     Putnam. 

Story   of  a   young   reporter. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68w 

White  conquerors.     Scribner. 

How  Cortes  and  his  handful  of  gold-hunting  Spaniards  fought  their  way  into  the 
great  Aztec  kingdom  and  established  their  power  in  the  city  where  Montezuma  had 
reigned  in  splendor. 

Munroe,  Kirk.  j  Mg68wi 

With   Crockett   and   Bowie;   or,   Fighting   for  the   Lone-Star   flag. 

Scribner. 

A  story  of  the  war  for  Texan  independence,   1836. 

Murai,  Gensai.  j  Mg7ik 

Kibun  Daizin;  or,  From  shark-boy  to  merchant  prince;  tr.  by  Masao 
Yoshida.     Century. 

Story  of  a  beggar  lad  who  became  the  leading  merchant  of  Japan.  Based  on  the 
life  of  a  popular  Japanese  hero  and  written  by  a  Japanese. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  257 

Murfree,  Mary  Noailles.     See  Craddock,  Charles  Egbert,  pseud. 

Murray,  Clara.  j  372.4  M97 

The  child  at  play;  little  stories  for  little  children.     1905.     Little. 

Murray,  Clara. 

Playtime.     See  her  Wide  awake  first  reader. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Murray,  Clara. 

Story  land.     See  her  Wide  awake  third  reader. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Murray,  Clara. 

Wide  awake  primer.     See  Iter  The  child  at  play. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Murray,  Clara.  j  372.4  M97W 

Wide  awake  first  reader.     1907.     Little. 

Companion   volume   to   "Child  at   play."     Colored   pictures. 

Murray,  Clara.  j  372.4  M97W2 

Wide  awake  second  reader.     1909.     Little. 

Stories  and  poems  for  little  children,  by  Mary  E.  Wilkins,  Mrs  Richards,  Helen 
Hunt  Jackson  and  others. 

Partial  contents:  Nanee's  doll. — Mrs  Grasshopper  Gay. — The  birds'  Christmas 
tree. — The  firefly  song. — The  pig  brother. — The  little  old  man  who  lived  in  the  well. — 
The  giant's  garden. — The  pot  of  gold. 

Murray,  Clara.  j  372.4  M97W3 

Wide  awake  third  reader.     1909.     Little. 

Many  of  the  stories  tell  about  little  children  in  other  lands  and  how  they   live. 

Partial  contents:  The  little  goatherds. — Great-great-grandma's  Christmas  in  Eng- 
land.— The  whipping  boy. — The  eve  of  St.  Nicholas. — The  children  of  Armenia. — A 
trip  to  Japan. — Urashima. — The  Peterkins'  excursion  after  maple  syrup. — The  emperor 
and  the  peasant. — The  Christmas  monks. 

Murray,  Michael  William.  j  684  M97 

Problems  in  woodworking.     1910.     Manual  Arts  Press. 

Good  dimensioned  drawings  of  50  models  for  class  exercises  in  easy  woodworking. 
Brief  notes  on  the  drawings  are  given.     Use  of  tools  is  not  included. 

Musset,  Paul  Edme  de.  j  Mg85m 

Mr  Wind  and  Madam  Rain;  tr.  by  Emily  Makepeace,  with  illustra 
tions  by  Charles  Bennett.     Putnam.    . 

Mr  Wind  and  Madam  Rain  play  many  pranks,  but  their  magic  gifts  bring  good 
fortune  to  the  Breton  miller,  John  Peter,  and  his  wife  Claudine.  The  humorous  pic- 
tures help  to  tell  the  story.     Contains  a  puppet  play. 

Myers,  Philip  Van  Ness.  j  909  M99 

General   history   for    colleges   and    high    schools    [to    190b].      1900. 

Ginn. 

Outlines  the  world's  history  from  the  earliest  times  to  the   Peace  of   Portsmouth. 

Maps  and  illustrations. 

Naomi,  Aunt,  pseud.  j  398  N12 

Jewish  fairy  tales  and  fables.     [1908.]      Bloch. 

Contents:     The  slave  who  became  a  king. — How  Reynard  fooled    Bruin,      The 
ged  pedlar. — The  enchanted  donkey. — The  greedy   fox. — The  man   v>h<>  was  in  hundred 
years  young. — The  king,   the  queen  and  the  bee.     -Honeim's   magic  shoes.- -Save, 1   by  ■ 
rose. — The  fool  of  Athina. — Sly   fox  and  sly   fish. — The   princess  and   the   rabbi       VTus 
suf's  three  punishments. — King  Tongue. 

Most  of  the  stories  are  adapted  from  the  Talmud  and  the   Midrash. 


258  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Nash,  Mrs  Harriet  A.  J  N143P 

Polly's  secret;  a  story  of  the  Kennebec.     Little. 

Story  of  a  brave  little  New  England  girl  who  kept  a  secret  in  the  face  of  great 
odds. 

Needham,  James  George.  j  590.4  N19 

Outdoor  studies.  1898.  Araer.  Book  Co.  (Eclectic  school  read- 
ings.) 

Contents:  Butter  and  eggs  and  bumblebees. — Chipmunks.— Houses  that  grow. — 
Goldenrod  ;  its  visitors  and  its  tenants. — Not  so  black  as  he  is  painted. — Dragon  flies. 
— Bogus  eyes. — Ant-lions. 

Neidlinger,  William  Harold.  qj  784.8  N21 

Small  songs  for  small  singers.     1896.     Schirmer. 

Partial  contents:     Mr   Duck  and   Mr  Turkey. — The  bunny. — Tick-tock. — Mr   Frog. 
— Little  birdie. — Rocking  baby. — The  bluebird. — The  daisy   and  the   wind. — Our   flag. 
Simple  melodies  suitable  for  children's  voices.     Colored  illustrations. 

Neil,  C.  Lang.  j  133  N21 

Modern  conjurer  and  drawing-room  entertainer.     1903.     Pearson. 

Contents:  Sleights  used  in  card  tricks. — Simple  card  tricks. — Advanced  card 
tricks.— Sleights  used  in  coin  tricks.— Tricks  with  coins. — Tricks  with  balls.- — Hand- 
kerchief tricks. — Miscellaneous  tricks. — Parlour  tricks. —  Plate  spinning. — Chapeau- 
graphy. — Paper  folding. — Shadowgraphy. — Books  on  conjuring. — Prices  of  conjuring 
requisites  and  apparatus. 

Thorough  manual  of  the  conjurer's  art,  giving  directions,  illustrated  by  photo- 
graphs, of  a  great  variety  of  tricks.     Contains  an  excellent  bibliography. 

Neison,  Adrian,  and  others.  j  669.1  N2ip 

Practical  boat  building  and  sailing.     1903.     Gill. 

Contents:  Boat  building,  by  Adrian  Neison  and  Dixon  Kemp. — Boat  sailing,  by 
G.  C.  Davies. 

Directions  for  building  and  sailing  canoes,  sail-boats,  small  yachts,  etc.,  with 
working  diagrams. 

Nesbit,  Edith,  afterward  Mrs  Bland.  j  N239S 

Story  of  the  treasure  seekers.     Unwin. 

Amusing  adventures  of  the  Bastable  children  in  search  of  a  fortune.  Continued 
by   "The  wouldbegoods." 

Nesbit,  Edith,  aftcrzvard  Mrs  Bland.  j  N239W 

The  wouldbegoods.     Harper. 

Sequel  to  "Story  of  the  treasure  seekers"  recounting  more  mishaps  of  the  Basta- 
ble children. 

New  testament.     See  Bible — New  testament. 

Newbolt,  Sir  Henry  John.  j  910.4  N26 

Book  of  the  blue  sea.     1914.     Longmans. 

Contents:  The  adventures  of  Charles. — The  adventures  of  Basil. — The  adventures 
of  John  Franklin. — Trafalgar. — The  adventures  of  Edward  Pellew. — The  adventures 
of  David  Farragut. 

True  stories  of  the  English  naval  service.  The  first  chapters  give  a  vivid  picture 
of  a  midshipman's  life  in  the  early  part  of  the  19th  century.  Includes  an  account  of 
Farragut's  boyhood   experiences  on  the  Essex  and  of  the  battle  of  Mobile   bay. 

Newbolt,  Sir  Henry  John.  j  940.4  N26 

Book  of  the  happy  warrior,  with  coloured  plates  and  other  illus- 
trations by  H.  J.  Ford.     1917.     Longmans. 

Contents:  The  song  of  Roland. — Richard  Cceur  de  Lion. — St.  Louis,  king  of 
France.— Robin  Hood. — Bertrand  Du  Guesclin  and  the  Black  Prince. — News  from 
Poitiers,  1356. — France  v.  gentlemen  of  England. — The  Chevalier  Bayard. — The  old 
English  school. — Chivalry  of  to-day. 

Book  of  chivalry,  telling  of  the  lives  and  deeds  of  the  famous  fighting  men  of  old. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  259 

Newcomb,  Simon.  j  520  N26 

Elements  of  astronomy.     1900.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Newell,  Cicero.  j  970.1  N27 

Indian  stories.     1912.     Silver. 

Traditions,  life  and  customs  of  the  Dakota  Indians.  Mr  Newell  was  a  United 
States  Indian  agent  who  lived  among  the   Dakotas  and  knew  them  well. 

Newell,  Peter.  j  817  N27 

Pictures  and  rhymes.     1903.     Harper. 

Funny  hits  of  rhyme  with  quaint  and  delightful  pictures. 

Newell,  William  Wells,  cd.  j  790  N27 

Games  and  songs  of  American  children.     1903.     Harper.   . 

"Collections  of  children's  games,"   p. 267-269. 

A  collection,  with  history,  of  the  games  of  the  children  of  America,  and  a  com- 
parison  with  those  of  other  countries. 

Nibelungenlied.  j  398.27  N3111 

The  Nibelungs;  tr.  from  the  German  of  Ferdinand  Schmidt  by  G.  P. 
Upton.     191 1.     McClurg.     (Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

Hero  tale  of  Siegfried,  who  won  the  N'ibelung  hoard. 

Nicholls,  Mrs  Charlotte  (Bronte).     See  Bronte,  Charlotte. 

Nicolay,  Helen.  j  973  N32 

Book  of  American  wars.     1918.     Century. 

Contents:  Colonial. — Revolution;  a  fight  for  nationality. — War  of  1812;  a  fight 
for  fair  play. — Mexican  war;  a  fight  for  conquest. — Civil  war;  a  fight  for  freedom. — 
Spanish  war;  a  fight  for  a  weak  neighbor. — 1917;  a  fight  for  humanity. 

Contains   maps. 

Nicolay,  Helen.  j  92  L7isn 

Boys'  life  of  Abraham  Lincoln.     1906.     Century. 

How  he  rose  from  obscurity  to  fame — from  postmaster  of  New  Salem  village  to 
president  of  the  United  States,  from  captain  of  a  backwoods  volunteer  company  to 
commander-in-chief  of  the  army  and   navy.      Illustrated. 

Nicolay,  Helen.  j  92  G78gn 

Boys'  life  of  Ulysses  S.  Grant.     1917.     Century. 

One  of  the  best  short  biographies  of  Crant,  the  hero  of  the  Civil  war,  whose 
"story   is  one   of  the  romances   of   our  modern    world." 

Nicolay,  Helen.  j  973  N320 

Our  nation  in  the  building.     1916.     Century. 

From  the  Revolution  to  the  Civil  war.  Gives  an  account  of  picturesque  events 
and  the  men  connected  with  them,  including  interesting  anecdotes  of  presidents  and 
statesmen.     Also  describes  every-day  life  and   society. 

Appeared  in   "Century   magazine,"   v. 91-92,    Dec.    1915-Oct.    1916. 

Nida,  William  Lewis.  j   N32ga 

Ab,  the  cave  man;  a  story  of  the  time  of  the  stone  age;  adapted  for 
young  readers  from   [Waterloo's]   "Story  of  Ab."     Flanagan. 

Niebuhr,  Barthold  Georg.  j  292  N33g 

The  Greek  heroes;  stories  tr.  from  Niebuhr,  with  additions;  illus- 
trations by  Arthur  Rackham.     1910.     Cassell. 

Contents:  The  Argonauts.  —  Th<  prowess  ol  Hercules.  The  Heraclidse,  -The 
story  of  Perseus. — The  story  of  Th< 


26o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Niver,  Harmon  Bay.  J  9°9  N37 

Great  names  and  nations;   a  first  book  in   history.     2v.     1906-07. 

Atkinson  &  Hulbert. 

v.i  contains  chapters  on  China,  India,  Egypt,  Assyria  and  Babylonia,  Lydia,  the 

Phoenicians,  the  Hebrews,  Medes  and  Persians,  Greece  and  Rome. 

v.2   begins   with   the   story   of   the   barbarian   invaders   of   the   Roman    empire   and 

gives  brief  accounts  of  Mohammed,   the   Northmen,  the  crusades,  and   the  beginnings 

of  England,  France,  Germany,  Italy  and  other  modern  nations. 

Nixon,  Mary  F.  afterward  Mrs  Roulet. 

Affonzo,  our  little    Brazilian   cousin.     See  her   Our  little   Brazilian 
cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Nixon,  Mary  F.  afterward  Mrs  Roulet.  J  398.097  N37 

Indian  folk  tales,    ion.    Amer.  Book  Co.     (Eclectic  readings.) 
Contains  The  star  wife.— The  trail  of  the  Far-off  lodge.— The  gift  of  Mondamin. 

—  The  wonderful   deeds   of   Man'abozho.  —  The    magic    porcupine    quills. —  1  he    moon 

maiden,  and  other  legends  and  traditions  of  the  American  Indians. 

Nixon,  Mary  F.  afterward  Mrs  Roulet. 

Kalitan,    our    little    Alaskan    cousin.      See   her    Our    little    Alaskan 

cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Nixon,  Mary  F.  aftenvard  Mrs  Roulet.  j  917-98  N37 

Our  little  Alaskan  cousin.     1907.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Same  as  her  "Kalitan,  our  little  Alaskan  cousin." 

Adventures  of  an  American  boy  in  Alaska.  He  visits  the  gold  country,  hunts  and 
fishes  with  Kalitan,  the  little  Alaskan  cousin,  and  lives  for  some  time  in  a  Thhnkit 
village,  where  he  attends  a  potlatch,  an  Indian  wedding  and  the  berry  festival,  and 
hears  quaint  stories  of  the  blue-jay,  the  burial  cave  of  Kagamil  and  Squi-ance,  the 
Moon  maiden. 

Nixon,  Mary  F.  afterward  Mrs  Roulet.  j  918.1  N37 

Our  little  Brazilian  cousin.     1907.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Same  as  her  "Affonzo,   our  little   Brazilian   cousin." 

About  the  home  life  of  Affonzo  on  a  Brazilian  plantation,  visits  to  Para  and  Rio 
de  Janeiro  and  a  journey  to  the  "Land  of  the  missiones"  and  the  falls  of  Iguazu. 
Contains  the  story  of  the  Gilded  Man. 

Noel,  Maurice.  j  595-79  N39 

Buz;  or,  The  life  and  adventures  of  a  honey  bee.     1892.     Holt. 

Nordhoff,  Charles.  j  gi°4  N43m 

The  merchant  vessel;  a  sailor  boy's  voyages.     1895.     Dodd. 

The  picture  of  a  merchant  seaman's  life,  giving  the  lights  and  shadows  of  Jack's 
career.  Contains  numerous  genuine  sailors'  "yarns,"  re-told,  the  author  says,  as 
nearly  as  possible  in  the  language  of  the  original  relators. 

Nordhoff,  Charles.  j  32°  N43a 

Politics  for  young  Americans.     1899.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Explains  the  meaning  of  liberty,  law,  government,  and  the  political  principles 
upon  which  the  United  States  system  of  government  is  founded. 

Nordhoff,  Charles.  j  910.4  N43W 

Whaling  and  fishing.     1895.     Dodd. 
Experiences  on  a  whaling  voyage  to  the  Indian  ocean. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  261 

j  914  N45 
Northern  Europe;  Norway,  Russia,  the  Netherlands,  France,  Germany 
and  Switzerland;  ed.  by  M.  A.  L.  Lane.  1902.  Ginn.  (Youth's  com- 
panion series.) 

Contents:  The  Faroe  islands,  by  J.  H.  Wisby. — Life  in  Norway,  by  \V.  H.  Corey. 
— Scenes  in  Holland,  by  Aleph  Page. — A  Holland  dairy,  by  E.  H.  Patterson. — A 
Dutch  market  place. — Scenes  in  Belgium,  by  E.  H.  Terrell. — A  people  on  stilts,  by 
Jean  Bertrand. — The  Eiffel  tower,  by  C.  A.  Stephens. — On  the  quicksands,  by  L.  C. 
Kellogg. — Life  in  the  Alps,  by  John  Tyndall. — An  open-air  parliament,  by  S.  H.  M. 
Byers. — Down  the  Moselle,  by  Morton  Dexter. — A  Russian  village,  by  the  Princess 
Kropotkin. — A  glimpse  of  Switzerland,  by  J.  D.  Washburn. — Holland's  war  with  the 
sea,  by  J.   H.   Gore. 

Norton,  Charles  Eliot,  comp.  j  808.8  N46a 

Heart  of  oak  books.     7v.     1903-06.     Heath. 

v.i.     Rhymes,  jingles  and   fables. 

v.2.      Fables  and  nursery   tales. 

v.3.     Fairy  tales,  narratives  and  poems. 

v.4.      Fairy   tales,   ballads  and   poems. 

v. 5-7.      [Miscellaneous.] 

Selections  chosen  from  the  masterpieces  of   English   literature. 

Norton,  Charles  Eliot,  ed.  j  398  N46S2 

The  story  teller.  1910.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library, 
ser.3,  v.i.) 

Contents:  The  story  of  the  three  bears. — Beauty  and  the  beast. — Diamonds  and 
toads. — Blanche  and  Rosalinda. — The  white  cat. — Tom  Thumb. — Cinderella.— Jack 
and  the  bean  stalk. — The  three  wishes. — The  children  in  the  wood. — The  history  of 
little  Jack. — The  fair  one  with  the  golden  locks. — Whittington  and  his  cat. — Seven 
champions  of  Christendom. — The  fisherman  and  the  genie. — The  yellow  dwarf. —  Fe- 
licia and  the  pot  of  pinks. — Prince  Mu  and  the  princess  Zaza. — Prince  Wee  and  the 
princess  Sabel. — The  princess  on  the  glass  hill. — The  brave  little  tailor. — Aladdin  and 
the  wonderful  lamp. — Go  I  know  not  whither. — The  story  of  Gore-Gorinskoye. — The 
sage  damsel. — The  prophetic  dream. — The  flying  ship. — The  goblin-no-bigger. — The 
story  of  Ivan. 

Norton,  Charles  Ledyard.  j  N463J 

Jack  Benson's  log;  or,  Afloat  with  the  flag  in  '61.     Wilde. 

Jack  Benson  sees  the  beginnings  of  the  Civil  war  from  the  crosstrees  of  Old  Iron- 
sides at  Annapolis,  helps  to  take  one  blockade-runner,  and  is  carried  off  to  sea  by 
another,  serves  in  a  cutting  out  expedition  on  the  lower  Santee  and  finally  sees  the 
great   naval   engagement   at   Hampton   Roads. 

Norton,  Charles  Ledyard.  j  N463m 

A  medal  of  honor  man.     Wilde. 

Sailor  boy's  life  in  the  blockade  fleet  during  the  Civil  war.  A  sequel  to  "JacV 
Benson's   log." 

Norton,  Charles  Ledyard.  j  N463mi 

Midshipman  Jack.     Wilde. 

Third  in  the  "Fighting  for  the  flag"  series.  Jack  Benson,  now  a  midshipman, 
tells   of   his   service   with   the   Gulf  squadron   under   Rear  admiral    FarragUt. 

Norton,  Charles  Ledyard.  j   N463S 

Soldier  of  the  legion;  a  story  of  the  great  Northwest.     Wilde. 
Carolina*  Bassett,  captain   oi   Virginian   horsi  it    of   the  <>!<!    fii 

fantry,  tells  of  the  early  days  of  the  Republic  and  of  thr  Northwest  territory,  of  his 
friend  and  comrade  William  Henry  Harrison,  later  president  of  the  United  States, 
and  of  the  various   Indian  campaigns   in   which   they    lerved   I Ogl  ther. 

Noyes,  Mrs  Marion  Ingalls  Osgood,  &  Guild,  K.  L.  j  372.4  N48 

Sunshine  primer.     1906.     Ginn. 


262  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Noyes,  William.  j  684  N48 

Handwork  in  wood.     1910.     Manual  Arts  Press. 

Contents:  Logging. — Sawmilling. — The  seasoning  and  measuring  of  wood. — Wood 
hand  tools. — Wood  fastenings. — Equipment  and  care  of  the  shop. — The  common  joints. 
— Types   of   wooden    structures. — Principles   of   joinery. — Wood    finishing. 

"General  bibliography,"   p. 4-6. 

j   398.8  N52 

Nursie's  little  rhyme  book;  illustrated  by  H.  W.  Le  Mair.    McKay. 

Twelve  nursery  rhymes,  illustrated  in  color.  Found  also,  with  music  by  Alfred 
Moffat,  in   "Our  old  nursery  rhymes." 

Nuttall,  Thomas.  j  598.2  N53 

Popular  handbook  of  the  birds  of  the  United  States  and  Canada; 
new  revised  and  annotated  edition  by  Montague  Chamberlain.  2v. 
in  1.     1903.     Little. 

Contents:     The  land  birds. — Game  and   water  birds. 

Though  published  in  1832  this  work  is  still  a  standard  authority.  In  this  edition 
the  birds  are  given  their  modern  names,  additional  species  are  included,  and  in  all 
other  respects   the  work  has   the  benefit   of  modern   science. 

"Will  be  especially  appreciated  by  those  who  care  more  for  a  bird  in  the  bush 
than  a  bird  in  the  hand — who  love  birds  for  what  they  are  and  what  they  do  in  life — 
for  Nuttall's  biographies  possess  a  freshness  and  charm  which  time  can  never  efface." 
Science,  1897. 

O'Brien,  Richard  Barry.  j  941.5  O12 

Ireland.     1897.     Unwin. 

Begins  with  the  story  of  St.  Patrick  and  tells  of  many  stirring  episodes  of  later 
times,  such  as  the  Ulster  rebellion,  the  Jacobite  war,  the  Catholic  emancipation,  the 
tithe  war,  the  repeal  movement.  The  facts  of  each  period,  so  far  as  possible,  are 
grouped  around  some  central  figure. 

Oertel,  Philipp  Friedrich  Wilhelm,  (pseud.  j  92  M3840 

W.  O.  von  Horn). 
Maria  Theresa;  tr.  from  the  German  by  G.  P.  Upton.     1905.     Mc- 
Clurg.     (Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

"Life  of  a  proud,  ambitious  queen  ;  a  wise,  judicious  ruler,  who  had  the  best  in- 
terests of  her  subjects  at  heart,  and  for  whom  they  were  always  ready  to  die." 
Preface. 

Ogden,  Ruth,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Frances  Otis  (Ogden)  Ide).  j  O172I1 

His  little  royal  highness.     Dutton. 

Experiences  of  three  children  at  a  country  house  on  the  New  Jersey  coast  near  a 
life-saving   station. 

Ogden,  Ruth,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Frances  Otis  (Ogden)  Ide).  j  O172I 

A  little  queen  of  hearts.     Stokes. 

The  "little  queen  of  hearts"  was  a  very  winning  little  American  girl  who  made 
friends  with  Queen   Victoria. 

Ogden,  Ruth,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Frances  Otis  (Ogden)  Ide).  j  O172I0 

Loyal  little  red-coat.     Stokes. 

About  the  little  daughter  of  a  Tory  who  lived  in  New  York  in  Revolutionary 
times. 

Olcott,  Frances  Jenkins,  cd.  j  ggg  O23 

Book  of  elves  and  fairies,  for  story-telling  and  reading  aloud  and 

for   the    children's    own    reading,    with    illustrations   by   Milo    Winter. 

1918.     Houghton. 

Fairy   lore   from   many    sources,   both    traditional   and   modern. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  263 

Olcott,  Frances  Jenkins,  ed.  j  394  O23 

Good    stories    for    great    holidays;    arranged    for    story-telling   and 

reading  aloud  and  for  the  children's  own  reading.     1914.     Houghton. 

Contents:  New  Year's  day. — Lincoln's  birthday. — Saint  Valentine's  day. — Wash- 
ington's birthday. — Resurrection  day  (Easter  Sunday). — May  day. — Mothers'  day. — 
Memorial  day  and  Flag  day. — Independence  day. — Labor  day. — Columbus  day. — Hal- 
loween.— Thanksgiving    day. — Christmas    day. — Arbor   day. —  Bird    day. 

"Reference  lists  for  story -telling  and  collateral  reading,"  p. 43 1-443. 

Olcott,  Frances  Jenkins,  &  Pendleton,  Amena,  comp.  j  O231J 

The  jolly  book  for  boys  and  girls.     Houghton. 

Contains  folk  tales,  short  stories,  and  selections  from  "The  story  of  a  bad  boy," 
"The  Peterkin  papers,"  "Nights  with  Uncle  Remus,"  "Handy  Andy,"  "Don  Quixote," 
and  other  humorous  books. 

Olcott,  Frances  Jenkins,  ed.  j  398.097  O23 

Red  Indian  fairy  book,  for  the  children's  own  reading  and  for  story- 
tellers, with  illustrations  by  Frederick  Richardson.     1917.     Houghton. 

Stories  of  animals,  birds  and  flowers,  of  the  wind  and  the  rainbow,  the  sun,  moon 
and  stars.     Arranged  according  to  seasons,  with  a  subject  index  for  the  story-teller. 

Olcott,  Frances  Jenkins,  comp.  j  821.08  O23 

Story-telling  poems;   selected  and   arranged   for   story-telling  and 

reading  aloud  and  for  the  children's  own  reading.     1913.     Houghton. 

Arranged  under  the  headings,  Deeds  of  right  and  wrong. — Fairies,  magic  and 
mystery. — Jolly  rhymes  and  poems.- — Sad  poems. — Historical  legends  and  stories. — 
Sacred  stories  and  legends. 

Olcott,  Frances  Jenkins.  j  023it 

Tales  of  the  Persian  genii;  retold,  with  illustrations  by  Willy  Pog- 
any.     Houghton. 

"In  these  stories,  wonder-loving  boys  and  girls  will  find  Good  Genii,  Wicked 
Marids,    Flying   Afrites,    Fairies,    Witches,    and    Enchanters."      Foreword. 

Olcott,  Frances  Jenkins,  ed.  j  398  O23W 

The  wonder  garden;  nature  myths  and  tales  from  all  the  world  over, 
for  story-telling  and  reading  aloud  and  for  the  children's  own  reading, 
with  illustrations  by  Milo  Winter.     1919.     Houghton. 

Contains  a  suggested  list  of  nature  talcs  suitable  for  each  month;  also  a  subject 
index. 

Old  testament.     Sec  Bible— Old  testament. 

Olfers,  Sibylle  von.  qj  831  O232W 

Was  Marilenchen  erlebte!  ein  neues  bilderbuch. 

Marilenchen  goes  with  the  snowflake  children  to  visit  the  castle  of  the  snow 
queen.     The  verses  are  in   German,  but  the  colored   pictures  tell   the  story. 

Olfers,  Sibylle  von.  j  831  O232 

Windchen.     [1910.] 

The  little  wind  plays  all  day  with  Hans  Jorgen,  sailing  his  boats  and  taking  him 
to  ride  on  a  cloud.     Rhymes  in   German.     Full-page  colored  pictures. 

Ollivant,  Alfred.  j  0234b 

Bob,  son  of  Battle.     Doubleday. 

A  Scotch  story  in  which  the  interest  centers  around  a  breed  of  famous  shepherd 
dogs,  of  which   Bob  is  the  last  and  greatest. 


264  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


O'Neill,  Anna  Theodora  Lee,  comp.  j  808.8  O25 

Recitations  for  assembly  and  class-room,  with  suggested  programs. 

1919.     Macmillan. 

Selections,  chiefly  from  standard  authors,  suitable  for  both  elementary  and 
secondary  schools.  Includes  poems  for  special  days  and  the  selections  for  memor- 
izing prescribed  by  the  New  York  city  course  of  study. 

Orne,  Martha  Russell.  j  394  O28 

Hallowe'en;   its  origin  and  how  to   celebrate   it  with  appropriate 

games  and  ceremonies.     1898.     Dick. 

Ortel,  Philipp  Friedrich  Wilhelm.    See  Oertel,  Philipp  Friedrich 
Wilhelm. 

Ortoli,  Jean  Baptista  Frederic.  j  0288e 

Evening  tales;  done  into  English  from  the  French  by  J.  C.  Harris. 

Scribner. 

Contents:  A  French  tar-baby.— Teenchy  Duck.— Mr  Snail  and  Brother  Wolf.— 
The  lion's  secret. — The  king  and  the  lapwings.— The  rooster,  the  cat  and  the  reap- 
hook.— The  mysterious  island. — Brother  Tiger  and  Daddy  Sheep. — "Jump  in  my 
sack  !" — A  search  for  a  friend. — A  child  of  the  roses. — The  king  of  the  lions. — The 
vizier,  the  monkey,  the  lion  and  the  serpent. — The  enchanted  princess. — Loony  John. 

O'Shea,  Michael  Vincent,  ed.  j  398  O29 

Old  World  wonder  stories.     1902.     Heath. 

Contents:  Whittington  and  his  cat. — Jack  the  Giant  killer. — Tom  Thumb. — Jack 
and  the  bean-stalk. 

O'Shea,  Michael  Vincent,  ed.  j  398  O29S 

Six  nursery  classics.     1901-     Heath. 

Contents:  The  house  that  Jack  built. — Mother  Hubbard  and  her  dog. — Courtship, 
etc.  of  Cock  Robin. — Dame  Wiggins  of  Lee. — The  old  woman  and  her  pig. — The  three 
bears. 

O'Sheridan,  Mary  Grant.  j  398  O294 

Gaelic   folk  tales;   adapted  from  the   three   saga  cycles   of   Gaelic 

mythology    and    designed    as  supplementary    school    reading.      1910. 
Henneberry. 

Contents:  Quest  of  the  eric  fine. — Fate  of  the  children  of  Lir. — The  Ard  Righ  of 
Eire. — Deirdre ;  or,  The  fate  of  the  sons  of  Usnach. — Oisin's  tale  of  Tir-na-n-og. — 
The  pursuit  of  the  Gilla  Dacker. — The  fairy  palace  of  the  quicken  trees. 

Ostwald,  Wilhelm.  j  540  O29 

Conversations  on  chemistry;  first  steps  in  chemistry.  2v.  1905-06. 
Wiley. 

v.i.     General  chemistry;  tr.  by  E.  C.   Ramsay. 

v.2.  The  chemistry  of  the  most  important  elements  and  compounds  ;  tr.  by  S.  K. 
Turnbull. 

Written  by  a  leading  chemist  of  the  day,  the  book  deals  with  common  and  simple 
chemical  and  physical  phenomena. 

Otis,  James,  {pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  0314am 

Amateur  fireman.     Dutton. 

How  a  New  York  bootblack  won  the  gold  medal  for  bravery  and  became  substi- 
tute fireman  of  "Ninety-four."     Describes  the  duties  of  the  fire  department. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  0314a 

At  the  siege  of  Quebec.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Part  taken  by  two  boys  in  the  perilous  expedition  of  Col.  Benedict  Arnold  in 
1775,  giving  an  account  of  the  terrible  march  through  the  wilderness  and  the  assault 
on  Quebec. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  265 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03i4by 

Boy  scouts  in  a  lumber  camp.     Crowell. 

Two  patrols  of  boy  scouts  carry  through  to  success  a  lumbering  contract. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03i4bo 

The  boys  of  Fort  Schuyler.     Page. 

Adventures  of  a  boy  in  the  Mohawk  river  campaign  in   1777. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  973.89  O31 

Boys  of  '98.     1898.    Page. 

Account   of  the   Spanish-American    war.      Illustrated   with  pictures   of   war  vessels 
and   portraits  of  leaders. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  0314b 

The  boys  of  1745  at  the  capture  of  Louisbourg.     Page.     (Stories 
of  American  history.) 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  0314c 

Ezra  Jordan's   escape    from   the   massacre   at   Fort   Loyall.      Page. 
(Stories  of  American  history.) 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03i4i 

An  island  refuge;  Casco  Bay  in  1676.     Page.     (Stories  of  American 

history.) 

Story  of  an  Indian  raid. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O314J 

Jenny  Wren's  boarding-house.     Page. 

Appeared  in   "St.   Nicholas,"  v. 14,   Feb.— April    1887. 

Story  of  a  newsboys'  lodging-house.     The  boys  themselves  are  directors  and  man- 
agers. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03141a 

Larry  Hudson's  ambition.     Page. 

Story  of  a  New  York  boot-black  who  goes  to  work  on  a  farm. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03141c 

Left  behind;  or,  Ten  days  a  newsboy.     Harper. 
How  two  New  York  newsboys  took  care  of  a  lost  boy. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O314I 

Life  savers;  a  story  of  the  United  States  life-saving  service.     Dut- 
ton. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O314I0 

Lobster  catchers;  a  story  of  the  coast  of  Maine.     Dutton. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  0314m 

Air  Stubbs's  brother.     Harper. 

A  monkey   story.     Sequel   to   "Toby   Tyler." 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03140 

Xeal  the  miller,  a  son  of  liberty.     Page.     (Stories  of  American  his- 
tory.) 

A  sturdy  young  son   of  liberty   in   the  days  of  the  stamp  act  agitation   carries  de- 
spatches from   Portsmouth   to   Plymouth. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O314P 

The  princess  and  Joe  Potter.     Page. 

About  a  little  fruit-vender  who  finds  and  cares  for  a  lost  child. 


266  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O314SU 

Silent  Pete;  or,  The  stowaways.     Baker. 

Appeared  in  "Harper's  young  people,"  v. 7,  April-June   1886. 

Story  of  a  little  street  musician  and  his  sturdy  friend,  Jerry,  and  their  experiences 
as  stowaways  on  a  brig,  bound  from  New  Orleans  to  New  York. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03i4te 

Teddy  and  Carrots;  two  merchants  of  Newspaper  row.     Page. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 22-23,  May   1895-April  1896. 

The  trials  of  two  New  York  newsboys  in  their  endeavors  to  establish  themselves 
in  business. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  03i4t 

Toby  Tyler;  or,  Ten  weeks  with  a  circus.     Harper. 

A  runaway  boy's  adventures  with  a  traveling  circus. 

This  story  created  such  an  excitement,  while  running  as  a  serial,  that  it  is  said 
the  editor  of  "Harper's  young  people"  frequently  received  letters  containing  money 
which  boys  had  sent,  in  good  earnest,  to  Toby  Tyler  to  buy  something  to  eat. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O31411 

Under  the  liberty  tree;  a  story  of  the  Boston  massacre.  Page. 
(Stories  of  American  history.) 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O314W11 

When  Dewey  came  to  Manila;  or,  Among  the  Filipinos.     Page. 

Adventures  of  two  American  boys  with  the  insurgents  at  the  battle  of  Manila  bay. 

Otis,  James,  (pseud,  of  James  Otis  Kaler).  j  O314W 

With  Lafayette  at  Yorktown.     Burt. 

The  secret  mission  of  two  New  Hampshire  boys  in  1781  and  how  they  witnessed 
the  siege  and  surrender  of   Yorktown. 

Ouida,  pseud.     See  Ramee,  Louisa  de  la. 

Our  children's  songs.     1904.     Harper.  j  821.08  O32 

Contents:     Songs    for   the   nursery. — Songs    for   childhood. — Songs    for    girlhood. — 
Songs  for  boyhood. — Hymns  for  the  nursery. — Hymns  for  childhood. 
Contains  many  of  the  children's  favorite  poems. 

Our  country:    East.     1899.     Mason.  j  917.3  O32 

Contents:  Great  Lake  country. — On  the  Gulf. — Along  the  Atlantic. — In  New 
England. 

Originally   appeared  in   the   "Youth's   companion." 

Our  country:    West.     1900.     Mason.  j  917.9  O32 

Contents:     In   Alaska.— Among   the   Rockies.— In   the    Southwest.— On   the   plains. 
Originally  appeared  in  the  "Youth's  companion." 

^       .     ...  ,    .  j  394  O32 

Our  holidays;  their  meaning  and  spirit;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.  1905. 
Century. 

Includes  poems  and  stories. 

Partial  contents:  All-hallow-eve  myths.— A  Thanksgiving  dinner  that  flew  away. 
—How  Uncle  Sam  observes  Christmas.— A  Chinese  New  Year's  in  California.— Long- 
fellow  and  the  children.— How  a  president  is  inaugurated.— A  song  of  Easter —The 
boy  in  gray. — A  story  of  the  flag. 

Overton,  Jacqueline  Marion.  j  Q2  S8480 

Life  of  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  for  boys  and  girls.  1915.  Scrib- 
ner. 

"Bibliography,"    p.  175-180. 

1  J01  wV-^f  throu,gh  Stevenson's  letters  to  his  friends  and  quotations  from  his 
books.     Well   illustrated. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  267 

Oxley,  James  Macdonald.  j  0354f 

Fife  and  drum  at  Louisbourg.     Little. 

Account  of  the  Pomeroy  twins  "Prince"  and  "Pickle;"  their  school  days  in  Bos- 
ton and  their  experiences  with  Gen.  Pepperell's  forces  during  the  siege  and  capture  of 
Louisburg. 

Ozaki,  Yei  Theodora  (Ozaki),  comp.  j  398  O36 

Japanese  fairy  book.     [1906.]     Dutton. 

Fairy  stories  from  far  Japan  told  by  a  Japanese  and  illustrated  by  a  Japanese 
artist.  Among  them  are,  My  Lord  Bag  of  Rice. — The  tongue-cut  sparrow. — The  bam- 
boo-cutter and  the  moon-child. — The  mirror  of  Matsuyama. — Story  of  the  old  man 
who  made  withered  trees  to  flower. — Momotaro,  or  the  story  of  the  son  of  a  peach. 

Packard,  Winthrop.  j  Pi26y 

Young  ice. whalers.     Houghton. 

Two  lads,  lost  in  the  Arctic  ice  pack,  live  for  two  years  the  life  of  the  far  North 
and  have  many  adventures  among  the  natives  of  the  land  of  ice  and  snow. 

Page,  Thomas  Nelson.  j  Pi45a 

Among  the  camps.     Scribner. 

Contents:  A  captured  Santa  Claus. — Kitty  kin,  and  the  part  she  played  in  the  war. 
— Nancy  Pansy. — Jack  and  Jake. 

Four  stories  about  Southern  children  during  the  Civil  war. 

Page,  Thomas  Nelson.  j  P145C 

A  captured  Santa  Claus.     Scribner. 

Story  of  a  Virginia  Christmas  during  the  Civil  war.  Also  contained  in  "Among 
the  camps." 

Page,  Thomas  Nelson.  j  Pi45to 

Tommy  Trot's  visit  to  Santa  Claus.     Scribner. 

How  Tommy  Trot  and  Johnny  Stout,  riding  on  a  new  sled,  visit  Christmas-tree 
land  and  hunt  the  polar  bear. 

Page,  Thomas  Nelson.  j  Pi45t 

Two  little  Confederates.    Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"  v. 15,  May-Oct.    18S8. 

Adventures  of  two  small  boys   left   on  a  Virginia   plantation   during   the   war. 

Page,  Thomas  Nelson.  j  Pi45tw 

Two  prisoners.     Harper. 

How  an  inquisitive  puppy  brought  happiness  to  the  "two  prisoners,"  a  little  crip- 
pled girl  and   a  mocking-bird.      Colored  illustrations. 

Paine,  Albert  Bigelow.  j  Pi62a 

The  Arkansaw  bear;  a  tale  of  fanciful  adventure.    Altemus. 

Strange  adventures  of  a  small  boy  and  a  big  black  bear. 

"And  they  traveled  on  forever  and  they'll  never,  never  sever, 
Bosephus  and   the   fiddle  and  the  Old-Black-Bear." 

Good  to  read  aloud. 

Paine,  Albert  Bigelow.  j  92  T897P 

The  boys'  life  of  Mark  Twain;  the  story  of  a  man  who  made  the 
world  laugh  and  love  him.     1916.     Harper. 

Born    in   the   humblest    surroundings    and    brought    up    almost    without    schooling, 
Mark   Twain    lived   to  achieve  a    world-wide    fame.     This    account    "i    bis    life    by    l"-> 
friend  and  biographer   tells  ot    his    boyhood   in   .1    little   town    on    the    Missis 
adventures  of   the   real  Tom   Sawyer   and    his   band,   of   In-   experiences   as    print 
prentice,  pilot  and  miner,  and  of  Ins  later  literary   success 


268  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Paine,  Ralph  Delahaye.  J  P164C 

College  years.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Contents:  Peter  Burnham,  pitcher.— The  martyrdom  of  an  oarsman.— A  case  of 
"professionalism."— The  honor  of  the  game.— The  mollycoddle.— The  Casselbury  twins. 
—The  freshman  full-back.— "For  dear  old  Yale."— A  very  commonplace  hero.— How 
Hector  won   his   "Y." — The  pretenders. 

Stories  of  athletics  at   Yale. 

Palgrave,  Francis  Turner,  comp.  j  821.08  Pi8c 

Children's  treasury  of  English  song.     1892.     Macmillan. 

Many  famous  ballads  and  poems  from  the  "Elysian  fields"  of  song.  A  few  of 
them  are,  Ye  mariners  of  England.— Jock  of  Hazeldean  —  Lord  Ullin's  daughter.— 
Kubla  Khan.— The  ancient  mariner. — The  wreck  of  the   Hesperus.— The   daffodils. 

Palgrave,  Francis  Turner,  comp.  j  821.08  Pi8g 

Golden  treasury  of  songs  and  poems  [1st  ser.];  pictures  in  color  by 

Maxfield  Parrish.     ion.     Duffield. 
Eight  full-page  plates. 

Paret,  Anna  Parmly,  ed.  j  79°  P23 

Harper's  handy-book  for  girls.     1910.     Harper. 

Contents:  The  home. — Arts  and  crafts. — Needlework  and  millinery. — Gifts. — Out- 
of-doors. — Amusements  and  miscellany. 

Contains  chapter  telling  how  to  build  a  small  stage  and  provide  simple  scenery 
and  proper  lighting. 

Parish,  John  Carl.  j  973-2  P23 

The  man  with  the  iron  hand.  1913.  Houghton.  (True  tales  of  the 
great  valley.) 

Story  of  the  French  explorers  in  the  Mississippi  valley,  told  from  the  standpoint 
of  the  Indians  whose  country  the  white  men  entered.  The  central  figure  is  Henry 
de  Tonty. 

Parker  (Francis  W.)  School,  Chicago.     See  Francis  W.  Parker  School, 
Chicago. 

Parkman,  Francis.  j  973.2  P24b 

Boys'  Parkman;  selections  from  the  historical  works  of  Francis 
Parkman;  comp.  by  L.  S.  Hasbrouck.     1912.     Little. 

Contents:  Indian  tribes  and  traditions. — The  discovery  of  the  Mississippi. — La 
Salle's  winter  journeys. — Tonty's  adventures  with  the  Indians. — La  Salle  finds  the 
mouth  of  the  Mississippi. — The  assassination  of  La  Salle. — The  French,  the  English 
and  the  Indians. — The  fall  of  Quebec. — Henry's  adventures  with  the  Indians. — The 
siege  of  Detroit. 

Life   of   Parkman,  p.5-9  ;    "Notes,"  p. 167-187. 

Parkman,  Francis.  j  973.2  P24 

Conspiracy  of  Pontiac  and  the  Indian  war  after  the  conquest  of 
Canada  [1663-1796].    2v.     1905.    Little. 

Deals  with  one  of  the  most  interesting  episodes  of  the  French  and  Indian  war, 
the  confederation  of  Indian  tribes  formed  by  Pontiac,  chief  of  the  Ottawas,  to 
drive  the  English  from  the  forts  near  the  Great  lakes,  v.i  contains  an  account  of 
Braddock's  defeat  near  Pittsburgh.  In  v. 2  is  a  description  of  the  Indian  attack  upon 
Fort  Pitt  in   1763. 

Parkman,  Francis.  j  917.8  P24 

Oregon  trail.     1906.     Little. 

Parkman's  first  book,  describing  his  actual  wanderings  in  1846  with  a  company 
of  Sioux  Indians  across  the  regions  of  the  Platte  river,  his  buffalo  hunting  in  the 
Black  hills  and  his  return  through  the  Rocky  mountains.  Illustrated  by  Mr  Reming- 
ton's striking  pictures  of  Indian  settlements,  camps,  implements,  buffalo  hunts,  trap- 
pers,  etc. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  269 

Parkman,  Francis.  j  973-2  P24P 

Parkman;  prose  passages  from  the  works  of  Francis  Parkman,  for 

homes,  libraries  and  schools;  comp.  by  J.  E.  Hodgdon.     1893.     Little. 

Contents:  Introductory  sketch:  Francis  Parkman. — Winter  life  at  Port  Royal. — 
Dominique  de  Gourgues. — Success  of  La  Salle. — Character  of  La  Salle. — The  search 
for  the  Pacific. — The  portrait  of  Wolfe. — The  Heights  of  Abraham. — Results  of  the 
Seven  years  war. — The  Indian  character. — Death  of   Pontiac. — The   Black   hills. 

Parkman,  Mary  Rosetta.  j  9235  P24 

Fighters  for  peace.     1919.     Century. 

Contents:  The  champion  of  honor,  King  Albert  of  Belgium. — The  hero  of  the 
Marne,  Marshall  Joffre. — The  chevalier  of  flight,  Captain  Guynemer. — "Le  patron." 
Marshall  Foch. — The  "tiger"  as  man  of  victory,  Premier  Clemenceau. — The  man  be- 
hind the  guns,  David  Lloyd  George. — Crusaders  of  the  war:  The  liberator  of  Bagdad, 
General  Maude ;  The  deliverer  of  Jerusalem,  General  Allenby. — The  spirit  of  Gari- 
baldi, Victor  Emanuel  and  his  armies.— "The  big  chief,"  General  Pershing. — The  chiv- 
alry of  the  sea,  Admiral  Beatty. — The  champion  of  peace,   President   Wilson. 

Parkman,  Mary  Rosetta.  j  920  P24 

Heroes  of  to-day.     1917.     Century. 

Contents:  The  laird  of  sky  land,  John  Muir. — The  seer  of  Woodchuck  lodge,  John 
Burroughs. — The  deep-sea  doctor,  Wilfred  Grenfell. — The  captain  of  his  soul,  Captain 
Scott. — A  modern  viking,  Jacob  Riis. — A  pioneer  of  the  open,  E.  L.  Trudeau. — "The 
prophet-engineer,"  G.  W.  Goethals. — A  shepherd  of  "the  great  country,"  Bishop  Rowe. 
— A  hero  of  flight,  S.  P.  Langley. — A  poet-soldier,  Rupert  Brooke. — A  citizen  of  the 
world,   H.   C.   Hoover. 

Parkman,  Mary  Rosetta.  j  920.7  P24 

Heroines  of  service.     1917.     Century. 

Contents:  Mary  Lyon. — A.  F.  Palmer. — Clara  Barton. — F.  E.  Willard. — J.  W. 
Howe. — A.  H.  Shaw. — Mary  Antin. — A.  C.  Fletcher. — Mary  Slessor. — M.  S.  Curie. — 
Jane  Addams. 

Good  short  accounts  of  "the  princess"  of  Wellesley,  "our  lady  of  the  Red  Cross," 
Alice  Fletcher  who  lived  among  the  Indians,  the  "White  Mother"  of  darkest  Africa, 
and  other  interesting  women. 

Parsons,  Mrs  Frances  Theodora  (Smith)  Dana.    See  Dana,  Mrs 

William  Starr. 
Parsons,  Geoffrey.  j  353  P26 

Land  of  fair  play;  how  America  is  governed.     1919-     Scribner. 

The  plan  of  the  American  government  is  compared  with  that  of  a  base-ball  game 
and  the  national  laws  are  shown  to  be  the  same  in  principle  as  the  playground  laws 
of  fair  play.  The  constitution  is  given  in  full  and  there  are  chapters  on  "What  the 
nation  does  for  us,"  "Political  parties  and  elections"  and  "The  duties  of  an  American." 

Parsons,  Henry  Griscom.  j  716.6  P26 

Children's  gardens  for  pleasure,  health  and  education.  1910.  Stur- 
gis. 

"Books  for  the  teacher,"  p. 194-197. 

Shows  the  value  of  school  gardens,  discusses  equipment  and  care  of  tools  and 
gives  detailed  directions  for  carrying  on  the  work.  Illustrated.  Author  is  uqio)  di- 
rector of  the  Department  of  school  gardens,   New    York  University. 

Parton,  James.  j  926  P27 

Captains  of  industry,  ist-2d  ser.    2v.     1892-93.     Houghton. 

Short  sketches  of  busy  men  ;  merchants,  inventors,  manufacturers,  teachers,  [arm 
ers,  reformers,  etc. 

Parton,  James.  j  920  P27 

Famous  Americans  of  recent  times.     1900.     Houghton. 
Contents:     Henry    Clay. — Daniel    Webster. — John    C.    Calhoun. — John    Randolph. — 

Stephen  Girard  and  his  college. — James  Gordon    Bennetl  and  tin-   Mew   York    Herald 

Charles  Goodyear. — Henry   Ward   Beecher  and   his  church. — Commodore    Vanderbilt. — 

Theodosia    Burr. — John   Jacob   Astor. 


270  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Patmore,  Coventry  Kearsey  Dighton,  comp.  j  821.08  P29 

Children's  garland  from  the  best  poets.     1892.     Macmillan. 

Some  of  the  best  poems  suited  to  children  will  be  found  between  the  covers  of  this 
book.  A  few  of  the  titles  are,  The  loss  of  the  Royal  George. — The  ancient  mariner. — 
Robin  Hood  and  Allin-a-Dale. — Bishop  Hatto. — John  Gilpin. — The  dragon  of  Want- 
ley. — The  romance  of  the  swan's  nest.— The  destruction  of  Sennacherib.— The  night- 
ingale and  the  glow-worm. 

j   172   P29 

Patriotism  and  the  flag;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     1918.     Century. 

Contents:  Patriotism,  by  Hildegarde  Hawthorne. — The  Rip  Van  Winkle  man-o'- 
war,  by  H.  I.  Hancock. — The  origin  of  our  flag,  by  Parmalee  McFadden. — The  story 
of  the  star-spangled  banner,  by  J.  L.  Harbour. — West  Point,  by  C.  W.  Larned. — Fight- 
ing ships,  by  F.  E.  Channon. — For  the  flag,  by  Mary  Wells. — The  old  liberty  bell,  by 
J.  A.  Stewart. — Sailor  life  on  a  man-of-war,  by  W.  O.  Stevens. — Our  flag's  first  en- 
gagement, by  H.  A.  Ogden. — The  National  service  school,  by  M.  W.  Hubbard. — The 
girls  in  khaki,  by  Margaret  Dadmun. — Two  boys  and  the  flag,  by  Eleanor  Schureman. 
— All  for  liberty,  by  F.  K.  Lane. — Jack  Jouett's  ride,  by  R.  T.  W.  Duke. — -The  stars 
in  our  flag,  by  S.  Clary. 

Patten,  Helen  Philbrook.  j  394  P31 

The  year's  festivals.     1903.     Page. 

Contents:  New  Year's  day. — Twelfth  night. — St.  Valentine's  day. — All  Fools'  day. 
— Easter. — May    day. — Hallowe'en. — Thanksgiving. — Christmas. 

Describes  the  origin  of  these  festival  days  and  the  various  customs  attaching  to 
them. 

Patterson,  Alice  Jean.  j  595.4  P31 

The  spinner  family.     1903.     McClurg. 

Account  of  the  habits  and  characteristics  of  spiders.  Frontispiece  in  color  and  many 
drawings   in   the  text. 

Patterson,  Arthur.  j  793.1  P31 

Shadow  entertainments  and  how  to  work  them;  something  about 
shadow  pantomimes  and  the  way  to  make  them  profitable  and  funny; 
shadowography  phantasmagorically  presented.     1901.     Drake. 

Patterson,  Burd  Shippen.  j  P312I1 

"The  Head  of  Iron;"  a  romance  of  colonial  Pennsylvania.  Walker. 
Pittsburgh. 

"Covers  the  whole  period  of  the  struggle  for  the  possession  of  the  Forks  of  the  Ohio 
...In  it  Braddock,  Forbes,  Washington,  Armstrong,  Bouquet,  Grant,  Burd,  Lewis, 
Morgan  and  Mercer  and  their  gallant  opponents,  Contrecoeur,  Beaujeu,  De  Ligneris, 
Dumas  and  Pontiac  are  made  to  play  the  parts  they  did  in  history  alongside  of  the  char- 
acters whose  personality  and  adventures  are  but  pure   romance."     Preface. 

Peabody,  Josephine  Preston.  qj  811  P33 

Book  of  the  little  past;  illustrated  by  E.  S.  Green.  1912.  Hough- 
ton. 

Poems  of  child  life:      Making  a   house. — The  busy   child.— I    was   lost.— The   polite 
visitor. — The  Christmas  tree. — The  green  singing-book,  and  others. 
Six   full-page   illustrations  in  color. 

Peabody,  Josephine  Preston.  j  292  P33 

Old  Greek  folk  stories  told  anew.  1897.  Houghton.  (Riverside 
literature  series.) 

Stories  of  Prometheus,  who  brought  to  earth  the  bright-eyed  fire  treasured  by  the 
gods;  of  Orpheus,  best  of  harpers;  of  the  cunning  Daedalus;  the  ambitious  Phaethon; 
Apollo  and  Diana,  and  other  gods  and  heroes  of  the  olden  time. 

Designed    to    supplement    Hawthorne's    "Wonder-book"    and    "Tanglewood    tales." 

"Index   of  mythology,"  p.i  13-123. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR   LIST  271 

Peabody,  Susie  C.  j  372.4  P33 

Step  by  step;  a  primer.     1902.    Ginn. 

Illustrated   in    color   and   outline   drawings,   many  of   them    being   simple   enoug 
copy  or  trace. 

Peary,  Mrs  Josephine  (Diebitsch).  qj  919.8  P353S 

Snow  baby;  a  true  story  with  true  pictures.     [1901.]     Stokes. 
Little  Marie  Ahnighito  Peary  was  born  near  the   North  pole.      Her  mother  tells  of 

the   "great   night"   into   which    she  came,   of  the   strange   little   brown    people   dressed   in 

the  skins  of   animals,   and   of   the   wonderful    land   of   mountains,   glaciers   and    iceberg*. 

With  pictures  of  the  Arctic   regions. 

Peary,  Marie  Ahnighito,  &  Peary,  Mrs  Josephine  qj  919.8  P353C 

(Diebitsch). 
Children  of  the  Arctic,  by  the  Snow  baby  and  her  mother.     1903. 
Stokes. 

Story  for  little  folks  of  a  year  spent  among  icebergs  and  great  ice-fields,  glaciers, 
polar  bears  and  Eskimo  children  by  the  "Snow  baby"  when  seven  years  old. 

Peary,  Robert  Edwin,  &  Peary,  M.  A.  qj  9198  P35 

Snowland  folk;  the  Eskimos,  the  bears,  the  dogs,  the  musk  oxen 
and  other  dwellers  in  the  frozen  North.     1904.     Stokes. 

Large  print.     Many  pictures  from  photographs  and  drawings. 

Peattie,  Mrs  Elia  (Wilkinson).  j  P354S 

Sarah   Brewster's   relatives,   with   illustrations   by   W.   D.    Stevens. 

Houghton. 

A  lonely,  self-centered  girl,  brought  up  in  New  York,  goes  to  live  with  relatives  in 
a  small  Wisconsin  town.  The  story  tells  how  she  learns  to  adapt  herself  to  their  ways, 
becomes  interested  in  others  and  happy  in  her  new  life. 

Peck,  Robert  Morris.  j  917-8  P36 

Wolf  hunters;  a  story  of  the  buffalo  plains;  ed.  and  arranged  from 
the  manuscript  account  by  G.  B.  Grinnell.     1914-     Scribner. 

Adventures  of  three  ex-cavalry  soldiers  who  spent  the  winter  of  1861  62  hunting 
wolves  on  the  Western  plains. 

Peers,  Mrs  Charles  Reed.  j  398.2  P36 

Saints  in  story,  containing  illustrations  from  pictures  by  Carpaccio, 

Giotto  and  Sassetta  and  from  illuminated  manuscripts.     1910.     Black. 

Contents:       St.    Jerome   and   the   lion. —  St.    George   and    the    dragon. —  St.    Francis 
preaches  to  the  birds  and  tames  the  wolf  of  Gubbio.      St.   Margaret  and   the  dragon. — St. 
Francis  and  the  soldan. — The  first  hallowing  of  Westminster  abbey. —  Legend  of  the  re- 
building of  Westminster  abbey.  —  Legend   of   Edward   the   Confessor  and    the   pilgrim. 
Legend  of  Wulfstan,  bishop  of  Worcester. 

Pendleton,   Louis.  j    P39"n 

In  the  camp  of  the  Creeks.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Attempt  of  two  lads  to  rescue  a  white  girl  taken  captivi  I  j  the  (  reek  Indiana  and 
carried  to  their  camp   in   the  Cbickasawhatchee   swamp. 

Pendleton,   Louis.  j   P39*k 

King  Tom  and  the  runaways.     Appleton. 

Experiences  of  King  Tom,  Alfred  and  happy-go-lucky  Jim  1  1  swamp  1* 

land;  a  story  of  life   in   the   Smith   befi  re   the  war. 

Pendleton,    Louis.  j    P391I 

Lost  Prince  Almon.    Jewish  Pub.  Soc.  of  America. 
The  lost  prince  of  Judab  is  Jehoash,  Bon  ol  Ahaziah,  who  foi  bix  years  was  hidden 

by   Jehoiada   the   high   priest    from   Atbaliab   the   usurper       The   story   tells   of   the   adv.  n 
tures  that   befell   the   little  pun.,    .lining    this    ' 


272  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Pennypacker,  Samuel  Whitaker.  j  974-8  P41 

Pennsylvania,  the  keystone;  a  short  history.     1914.     Sower. 

Useful  text-book,  without  critical  comment. 

Pepper,  John  Henry. 

Boy's  book  of  science.    See  his  Boy's  playbook  of  science. 

Different  edition  having  changed  title. 

Pepper,  John  Henry.  j  53°-7  P4*a 

Boy's  playbook  of  science;  revised,  rewritten  with  many  additions 
by  John  Mastin.     1912.     Routledge. 

Among  the  subjects  treated  are  astronomy,  chemistry,  photography,  electricity  and 
magnetism,  radio-activity,  light,  heat,  steam  and  the  evolution  of  the  steam-engine.  Sug- 
gests many  experiments  which  may  be  performed  without  expensive  apparatus.  Illus- 
trated. 

Percy,  Thomas,  bp.,  comp.  j  821.08  P42b 

The  boy's  Percy;  from  Bishop  Thomas  Percy's  Reliques  of  ancient 
English  poetry;  ed.  for  boys  by  Sidney  Lanier.     1891.     Scribner. 

Stirring  ballads  of  the  old  days  of  English  border  warfare  and  chivalry.  Among 
them  are,  Robin  Hood  and  Guy  of  Gisborne. — The  ancient  ballad  of  Chevy  Chace. — Sir 
Cauline. — Edom  o'  Gordon. — The  friar  of  orders  gray. — The  nut-brown  maid. — The 
bonny  earl  of  Murray. — Lord  Thomas  and  fair  Annet. — The  legend  of  Sir  Guy. — Sir 
John  Grehme  and  Barbara  Allen. — St.  George  and  the  dragon. 

"God  prosper  long  our  noble  king, 
Our  lives  and  safetyes  all; 
A  woefull  hunting  once  there  did 
In  Chevy-Chace  befall." 

Perkins,  Mrs  Lucy  (Fitch).  j  P434b 

The  Belgian  twins.     Houghton. 

Story  of  two  little  refugees  based  upon  the  actual  experiences  of  two  Belgian  chil- 
dren.    Pictures  by  the  author. 

Perkins,  Mrs  Lucy  (Fitch).  j  P434d 

The  Dutch  twins.     Houghton. 

Kit  and  Kat,  the  twins,  live  in  Holland.  There  are  many  pictures  of  them  and 
stories  telling  what  happened  the  day  they  went  fishing  with  grandfather,  the  day  they 
drove  the  milk  cart,  the  day  they  got  their  skates  and  at  other  happy  times. 

Perkins,  Mrs  Lucy  (Fitch).  j  P434e 

Eskimo  twins.    Houghton. 

"Describes  simply  and  with  quaint  humor  the  daily  doings  of  the  twins,  Menie  and 
Monnie,  aged  five,  their  dogs  Nip  and  Tup,  their  parents  and  the  rest  of  the  Eskimo 
village.  Illustrated  by  the  author's  sketches."  New  York  State  Library,  Best  books 
of  1014. 

Perkins,  Mrs  Lucy  (Fitch).  j  P434f 

The  French  twins.     Houghton. 

Pierre  and  Pierrette,  who  live  in  Rheims,  bravely  do  their  part  in  helping  to  win 
the  European  war.  How  they  rescue  their  wounded  father  from  the  burning  cathedral, 
escape  with  their  parents  from  the  shell-riddled  city,  make  friends  with  some  Ameri- 
cans and  become  honorary  members  of  the  Foreign  Legion,  may  be  read  in  the  story. 
Quaint  drawings  of  the  twins,  the  "raveled-out"  dog  and  their  other  friends. 

Perkins,  Mrs  Lucy  (Fitch).  j  P434i 

The  Irish  twins.     Houghton. 

The  twins,  aged  seven,  have  a  tea-party  with  Grannie  Malone,  hear  Irish  tales  of  the 
"cakeen"  and  the  "little  men"  and  go  to  the  fair,  where  they  sell  their  own  pig  to  pay 
the  rent.     Illustrated  with  pencil  drawings. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS     AUTHOR   LIST  273 

Perkins,  Mrs  Lucy   (Fitch).  j  P434J 

The  Japanese  twins.     Houghton. 

The  twins  are  just   five  years  old   ;mcl   they   live    in    a   dear   little   house   in   a   i 
little  town  in  the  middle  of  the   Happj    islands.     The  stories  tell   of  the  festival  of  dolls 
and  of  the  feast  of  flags  and  of  other  happy  times.     Illustrated  by  the  author  with  1n.n1> 
pictures  of  Taro  and  Take  and  the  baby. 

Perkins,  Mrs  Lucy  (Fitch),  comp.  qj  821.08  P43 

Robin  Hood.     [1906.]     Stokes. 

His  deeds  and  adventures  as  recounted  in  the  old  English  ballads,  with  colored 
pictures.  Some  of  the  ballads  are,  Robin  Hood  and  Alan-aDale. — Robin  Hood  and 
the  bishop. — The  noble  fisherman. — Robin  Hood's  chase. — Robin  Hood  and  the  curtal 
friar. 

Perrault,  Charles.  j  398  P431 

Fairy  tales,  with  coloured  illustrations  by  Charles  Robinson. 
[1913.]     Dent.     (Tales  for  children  from  many  lands.) 

Contents:  The  sleeping  beauty.  —  Little  Red  Riding-hood.  Blue  Beard.  Master 
cat ;  or,  Puss  in  boots.- — The  fairies. — Cinderella  ;  or,  The  little  glass  slipper. — Riquet 
with  the  tuft. — Little  Thumbling. — Beauty  and  the  beast. — The  benevolent  frog.  —  Prin- 
cess Rosette. 

Perrault,  Charles.  j  398  P43t 

Tales  of  Mother  Goose,  as  first  collected  by  Charles  Perrault  in 
1696;  tr.  by  Charles  Welsh.     1901.    Heath. 

Contents:  Cinderella. — The  sleeping  beauty  in  the  wood. — Little  Thumb. — The 
master  cat,  or  Puss  in  boots. — Riquet  of  the  tuft. — Blue  Beard. — The  fairy. — Little 
Red  Riding-hood. 

Perry,  Frances  Melville.  j  926  P44 

Four  American  inventors.  1901.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Four  great 
Americans  series.) 

The  inventors  are  Fulton,  of  steamboat  fame;  Whitney,  who  invented  the  cotton- 
gin  ;  Morse,  the  inventor  of  the  telegraph  ;  and  Edison,  the  modern  wizard. 

Perry,  Frances  Melville,  &  Beebe,  Katherine.  j  920  P44 

Four  American  pioneers:    Boone,  George  Rogers  Clark,  Crockett, 

Kit   Carson;   a  book   for  young  Americans.     1900.     Amer.   Book   Co. 

(Four  great  Americans  series.) 

Perry,  Xora.  j  P445* 

Three  little  daughters  of  the  Revolution.     Houghton. 
Stories  of  Dorothy,  Patty  and   Bettj    Boston;  girls  whose   loyalty   to   t  1km    country 

was  put  to  some  hard  tests. 

Perry,  Stella  George  Stern.  j  793.1  P44 

When  mother  lets  us  act.     1913.     Moffat. 

For  children  who  like  to  act  out   their  favorite  stories  and   poems   and   who 
tableaux,   shadow   plays,   pantomimes  and   pageants.      Suggests   subjects,   not   too   diffi 
cult,  and  tells  how  to  make  simple  costumes  and   "properties." 

Perry,  Walter  Copland.  j  883  H75ope 

Boy's  Odyssey.     1901.     Macmillan. 

How  Ulysses  escaped  from  the  Cyclops,  whal  happened  al  u  ■  .  how 

L'lysses  came  to  the  land  of  the  tea-kings,  and  othei 

Originally  written  for  the  author's   seven  yeai  old   ion      Partly  based  on  the  ; 
translation  of  the  Odyssey  by  Butcher  and  Lang  which  has  been   freely  quoted 

Perry,  Walter  Scott.  j  916-2  P44 

With  Azir  Girges  in  Egypt.     igi3-    Atkinson. 

With    A/ir    GirgeS,   the    donkey   boy,    one    may   visit    the    pyramids,   K'cat    temples    and 

rbdisks  of  Egypt  and  see  something  of  thi  ad  home  life  of  Egyptian  children  of 

Many  pictures. 
Author   is    (1914)    din  "1    of    Line  .   Pratt    Institute. 


274  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Persons,  Eleanor  A.  comp.  j  808.8  P44 

Our  country  in  poem  and  prose;  arranged  for  collateral  and  supple- 
mentary reading.     1899.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Selections  range  from  the  discovery  of  Columbus  to  the  Spanish-American  war. 
The  arrangement  is  chronological  and  there  are  suggestions  for  further  reading.  In- 
cludes such  titles  as,  The  skeleton  in  armor. — The  landing  of  the  Pilgrims. — Song  of 
Braddock's  men. — The  rising  of  '76. — Pulaski's  banner. — Old  Ironsides. — Keenan's 
charge. — John  Burns  of  Gettysburg. — O  captain!   My  captain. — A  ballad  of   Manila  bay. 

Petrovic,  Vojislav  M.  j  398  P46 

Hero  tales  and  legends  of  the  Serbians,  with  a  preface  by  Chedo 

Miyatovich  and  illustrations  in  colour  by  William  Sewell  &  Gilbert 
James.     1914.     Stokes. 

Includes  legends  of  the  Servian  national  hero,  Prince  Marko,  and  other  ballad 
stories,  folk-tales  and  popular  anecdotes.  The  introductory  chapters  give  an  historical 
retrospect;  also  an  account  of  the  national  epic  poetry  and  of  the  superstitions,  be- 
liefs and  national  customs  of  the  people. 

Phelps,  Elizabeth  Stuart.     See  Ward,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Stuart   (Phelps). 

Philips,  George  Morris.  j  353  Mg4a 

Elements  of  civil  government  in  the  commonwealth  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, with  a  brief  outline  of  the  political  history  of  the  state;  designed 
for  use  as  a  text-book  in  public  and  private  schools,  and  for  supple- 
mentary reading.     1898.     Silver. 

Bound  with  Mowry,  W.  A.     "Elements  of  civil  government." 

Philips,  George  Morris.  j  353  P49 

Nation  and  state;  a  text-book  on  civil  government.     1905.     Sower. 

"Useful  books  on  this  subject,"  p.  1 1-12. 

Phillips,  Mary  E.  j  Psi4t 

Tommy  Tregennis;  illustrated  by  M.  V.  Wheelhouse.     Dutton. 

Tommy  lives  in  a  little  Cornish  fishing  village  and  the  story  tells  what  happens  to 
him  from  the  time  he  is  five  years  old  until  he  is  seven.  His  mother  takes  summer 
"visitors"  and  many  of  the  incidents  concern  the  "Blue  Lady"  and  the  "Brown  Lady" 
who  take  a  great  interest  in  Tommy  and  his  upbringing.      Colored  pictures. 

Phillips,  Walter  Shelley.  j  398.097  P51 

The  sandman;  his  Indian  stories.     1918.     Page.     (Sandman  stories.) 

Author  spent  much  of  his  early  life  among  the  Indians  and  learned  from  them 
their  legends  and  traditions.  Folklore  tales  such  as  "Why  the  coyote  has  a  rough  gray 
coat"  and  "Why  crawfish  lives  in  the  water"  alternate  with  stories  illustrating  the  life 
and  customs  of  the  Indians.     Language  is  simple  and  type  large. 

Phillpotts,  Eden.  j  Psi8f 

The  flint  heart;  a  fairy  story.     Dutton. 

Begins  with  the  making  of  the  wonderful  charm  by  the  mystery  man  of  the  "New 
Stoners"  and  relates  many  curious  things  which  come  to  pass  in  Dartmoor,  owing  to  the 
powerful  influence  of  the  flint  heart. 

Pier,  Arthur  Stanwood.  j  P556I1 

Harding  of  St.  Timothy's.     Houghton.    . 

Appeared  in  the  "Youth's  companion"  under  the  title  "Harry  Harding's  last  year." 
The  election  of  the  president  of  the  athletic  association  of   St.   Timothy's;   a  boys' 

boarding-school  story. 

Pier,  Arthur  Stanwood.  j  P556J 

The  jester  of  St.  Timothy's.  Grosset.  (Every  boy's  library;  boy 
scout  edition.) 

School  story. 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  275 

Pier,  Arthur  Stan  wood.  j  P556P 

The  Plattsburgers.     Houghton. 

Appeared  in  the  "Youth's  companion." 

The  experiences  of  a  tent  squad  of  college  hoys  who  were  members  of  the  first 
Plattsburg  camp. 

Pierne,  Gabriel.  j  784.8  P56 

Sonnez  les  matines;  chansons  de  jeu  et  rondes  enfantines;  har- 
monies de  Gabriel  Pierne,  images  de  George  Delaw,  preface  de 
Madame   Edmond   Rostand.     1904. 

Old  songs  and  rounds  for  children.     Pictures  simple  in  outline  and  color. 

Pierson,  Clara  Dillingham.  j  P57imi 

The  Millers  and  their  new  home.     Dutton. 

Account  of  another  vacation  at  Pencroft  and  more  good  times  of  the  Miller  children. 

Pierson,  Clara  Dillingham.  j  P57im 

The  Millers  at  Pencroft.     Dutton. 

Story  of  the  home  life  of  three   little  American  children. 

Pierson,  Clara  Dillingham.  j  P57H 

Three  little  Millers;  a  story  of  the  boys  and  girls  of  Pencroft.  Dut- 
ton. 

The  little  Millers  celebrate  their  mother's  birthday,  have  a  Fourth  of  July  party  and 
form  a  Saturday  club.     Sequel  to  this  is  "The  Millers  at  Pencroft." 

Pierson,  Mrs  Helen  Wall.  j  923.1  P57I 

Lives  of  the  presidents  of  the  United  States,  in  words  of  one  sylla- 
ble.    1901.     Burt. 

Brief  lives  of  the  presidents  from  George  Washington  to  Theodore  Roosevelt. 
Large  print  and  many  pictures. 

Pierson,  Ward  Wright.  j   353.9   P57 

Civics  of  Pennsylvania.     1906.     Ginn. 

Contents:     Proprietary  government. — Local  government  in  the  province.  «-The 
ernor. — Administrative   departments,   executive   boards   and   commissions. — The   legisla- 
ture.— The  judiciary. — The  county. — -The  township.  —  Municipalities.  —  Education. — Suf- 
frage and  elections. — Taxation. 

"Constitution  of  Pennsylvania,"  p. 1 13-175. 

Pike,  Henry  Lee  Mitchell.  j  918.6  P58 

Our  little  Panama  cousin.     1906.     Page. 

Contents:  Happy  days. — About  the  city.  -  A  trip  to  old  Panama.— Story  of  the 
buccaneers. — An  earthquake. — A  journey. — Culcbra. — Balboa. — Colon. — Up  the  Cha- 
gres  river. — New  ambition. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Vasco,   oui    little   Panama  CO 

Pike,  Henry  Lee  Mitchell. 

Vasco,  our  little  Panama  cousin.    Sec  his  Our  little  Panama  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Pitman,  Leila  Webster.  j  944  P66 

Stories  of  old  France.     1902.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:      Chinon  :    the    warrior    maid.  —  Plessia  les-Tours:    in    the    king's    train.— 
Chenonceaux  and  Chambord:    the  recreations  of  a  king.     Amboise:    a  1  •  ■  > .  1 1  mother, 
Blois :  the  three  Henries  and  their  struggle  for  a  throne.— A  forgotten  chateau:   the 
building  of  an  air  castli        rhi    Louvre  and  Fontainebleau :    the  ■ 
Versailles:    the  people  versus  the  court. 

Stories  about  the  great  chat  ind  battles  and  • 

in  the  days  of  the  old  monarchy 


2-6  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Pittenger,  William.  j  973-7  P67 

Great  locomotive  chase;  a  history  of  the  Andrews  railroad  raid  into 
Georgia  in  1862.     1899.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Thrilling  account  of  the  attempt  to  capture  a  Georgia  railroad  during  the  Civil  war. 
Gives  also  the  prison  experiences  of  the  author. 

Piatt,  William,  &  Piatt,  Mrs  William.  j  398.21  P68 

Stories  of  the  Scottish  border,  with  illustrations  by  M.  M.  Williams. 
[1911.]     Crowell. 

Contains  some  of  the  most  famous  of  the  border  ballads,  with  others  retold  in  prose. 
Gives  short  accounts  of  the  legendary  or  historical  events  upon  which  they  are  founded 
and  an  outline  of  early  border   history. 

Pletsch,  Oscar.  qj  831  P6gw 

Wie's  im  hause  geht  nach  dem  alphabet;  mit  24  originalzeichnungen 
und  reimen  von  Oscar  Pletsch. 

Pliny,  the  elder.     Natural  history.     For  adaptation  sec 

White,  J.  S.  ed.     Boys'  and  girls'  Pliny j  570  P69 

[Plon,  Eugene.]  j  843  P71 

La  civilite  puerile  et  honnete;  expliquee  par  l'oncle  Eugene  et  illus- 
tree  par  Maurice  Boutet  de  Monvel.     [1887.] 

The  text  is  in  French,  but  the  amusing  pictures  tell  the  story  and  enforce  the  lessons 
of  politeness  and  courtesy. 

Plummer,  Mary  Wright.  j  917. 1  P72 

Roy  and  Ray  in  Canada.     1908.     Holt. 

The  twins,  Roy  and  Ray  Stevens,  who  have  already  visited  Mexico,  spend  a  summer 
in  eastern  Canada.  They  go  to  Ottawa,  "run  the  slides"  on  a  lumber  crib,  see  a  cham- 
pionship game  of  lacrosse  in  Montreal,  visit  quaint  old  Quebec,  Indian  Lorette,  Lake 
St.  John,  Louisburg  and  the  land  of  Evangeline. 

Plummer,  Mary  Wright.  j  917.2  P72 

Roy  and  Ray  in  Mexico.     1907.     Holt. 

Roy  and  Ray  Stevens,  twins,  "going  on  twelve."  with  their  parents  spend  a  summer 
in  Mexico.  The  book  tells  how  they  meet  President  Diaz,  visit  the  ruins  of  Mitla, 
take  part  in  the  Fourth  of  July  celebration  of  the  American  colony  in  the  city  of  Mexico, 
and  of  all  the  other  things  which  they  see  and  do  in  the  "Land  of  Mariana."  Illustra- 
tions from  photographs. 

Plummer,  Mary  Wright.  j  398.28  C47 

Stories  from  the  Chronicle  of  the  Cid.     1910.     Holt. 

The  knighting  of  the  Cid  and  his  banishment,  how  Martin  Pelaez,  the  coward,  be- 
came a  brave  knight,  the  Cid's  victory  over  29  Moorish  kings,  his  last  ride  on  Babieca, 
and  other  stories  of  the  Spanish  hero,  Rodrigo  Diaz  de  Bivar,  called  the  Cid. 

Plutarch.  j  g20  P72b 

Boys'  and  girls'  Plutarch;  parts  of  the  Lives  of  Plutarch;  ed.  for 
boys  and  girls  by  J.  S.  White.     1896.     Putnam. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Lives." 

About  Theseus,  Romulus,  Camillus,  Demosthenes,  Alcibiades,  Coriolanus,  Aristides, 
Pompey,  Themistocles  and  other  Greek  and  Roman  heroes. 

Plutarch.  j  Q20  p72\ 

Lives,  for  boys  and  girls;  selected  lives  freely  retold  by  W.  H. 
Weston,  with  drawings  in  colour  by  W.  Rainey.     [191 1.]     Stokes. 

Contents:  Aristides.—  Themistocles.—  Pelopidas.—  Timoleon.—  Alexander.—  Philo- 
poemen.— Coriolanus.— The  Gracchi:  Tiberius  Gracchus,  Caius  Gracchus.— Caius  Marius. 
— Julius  Caesar. — Brutus. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  277 

Plutarch. 

Lives;  selected  and  ed.  by  J.  S.  White.  See  his  Boys'  and  girls' 
Plutarch. 

Plutarch.  j  920  P72 

Lives;  the  translation  called  Dryden's,  corrected  from  the  Greek 
and  revised  by  A.  H.  Clough.     5v.     1906.     Little. 

One  of  the  most  famous  books  ever  written.  It  tells  of  the  lives  of  50  Greek  and 
Roman  heroes  and  leaders  from  mythical  times  to  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  era. 
It  is  realistic  and  picturesque  in  style,  crowded  with  incident  and  full  of  interesting 
anecdotes. 

Plutarch.     Lives.    For  adaptation  see 

Gould,  F.  J.     Children's  Plutarch;  tales  of  the  Greeks.. j  920  P72zg 
Gould,  F.  J.    Children's  Plutarch;  tales  of  the  Romans. j  920  P72zgc 

Plutarch.  j  920  P720 

Our  young  folks'  Plutarch;  ed.  by  Rosalie  Kaufman.  1890.  Lip- 
pincott. 

The  conquests  of  Alexander  the  Great,  how  Demosthenes  became  an  orator,  the  con- 
spiracy against  Caesar,  the  life  of  Lycurgus  the  law-giver  of  Sparta,  the  exploits  of 
Pyrrhus  and  other  tales  from   Plutarch's  "Lives." 

Plympton,  Almira  George.  j  P731W 

YVanolasset,  the-little-one-who-laughs.     Little. 

Tale  of  King  Philip's  war  and  of  the  captivity  of  a  little  Puritan  maid,  named  by 
the  Indians,  YVanolasset,  the.-little-one-who-laughs. 

Poast,  Florence  M.  j  970.1  P73 

Indian  names,  facts  and  games  for  camp  fire  girls.     1916.     [James 

William  Bryan  Press.] 

"Books  consulted,"  p-75-76;   "Good  books  to  read,"  p. 77-78. 

Brief   information    on    language,    symbolism,    totems,    signals,    fire-making,    houses. 

clothing,  women's  occupations,  children  and  their  names,  dolls  and  games.   Contains  a 

list  of  Indian  words  suitable  for  personal  names,  club  names,   bungalows  and  boats. 

Poe,  Edgar  Allan.  j  P74it 

Tales.     Duffield.     (Centenary  edition.) 

Contents:  The  fall  of  the  house  of  Usher. — The  masque  of  the  red  death. — The  pit 
and  the  pendulum. — -The  black  cat. — The  facts  in  the  case  of  M.  Yaldemar. — The  gold- 
bug. — The  murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue. 

Pogany,  Nandor,  comp.  j  398  P74 

Hungarian  fairy  book;  illustrations  by  Willy  Pogany.  [1913.] 
Unwin. 

Polkinghorne,  Ruby  Kathleen,  &  Polkinghorne,  M.  I.  R.  j  790  P76 

Toy-making  in  school  and  home.     [  1916.]     Hubbell. 
Shows  how  to  make  many  different  toys  from  inexpensive  materials  -cardboard 

and  paper  ships,  swinging  and  jointed  animals,  dolls,  furniture,  mechanical  toys,  k i t < -v 
gliders,  etc.     Includes  the  use  of  woodworking  tools.     Fully  illustrated. 

Pollard,  Joyce.  j  398.2  P76 

Stories  from  old  English  romance.     1912.     Stokes. 

Contents:      Beowulf    and    Grendel. — Beowulf    and    the    I  il  ••  dragon. — The    stoi 
Caedmon. — The  fight  at  Maldon. — Vortiger  and  Constance. — YortiKcr  and  Hengest. — The 
return  of  Aurelius. — Havelok  the  Dane;   how   Elavelok  came  to  marry  Goldborough, 
Havelok  the  Dane;  how  Havelok  became  kin^  of  Denmark  and  of  England,      Ring  II      n 
— Guy  of  Warwick;  how  Guy  won  the  hand  of  Felice  the  Beautiful,     Guy  of  Warwick; 
how  Guy  went  on  a  pilgrimage. — The  tale  of  Gamelyn.     The  vision  of  William  concern 
ing  the  field  full  of  folk. — The  vision  of  William  concerning  Piers  the  Ploughman 
The  travels  of  Sir  John    Mandeville:   of  the   great   Chan      '  [Tie    tl  tvel 


278  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Pollard,  Joyce — continued.  j  398.2  P76 

John  Mandeville;  of  the  governance  of  the  great  Chan's  court. — The  story  of  Mak. — 
London  lickpenny. — Robin  Hood  and  Sir  Richard-at-the-Lee. — Robin  Hood  and  King 
Edward. — The  story  of  Sir  Balin  ;  how  Balin  took  King  Rience  of  North  Wales. — The 
story  of  Sir  Balin;  how  Balin  smote  the  dolorous  stroke. — Sir  Gareth  of  Orkney. 

Polo,  Marco.  j  915  P76 

Travels  of  Marco  Polo  for  boys  and  girls,  by  T.  W.  Knox.  1888. 
Putnam. 

Marco  Polo  "was  the  first  traveller  who  told  us  of  the  Steppes  of  Central  Asia,  the 
Mountains  and  Rivers  of  Cathay,  the  plateau  of  'The  Roof  of  the  World,'  and  the  Desert 
Plains  of  Mongolia.  He  was  the  first  to  give  us  a  detailed  description  of  the  people  of 
China,  the  pomp  and  splendor  of  the  Court  of  Kublai  Khan,  the  wonders  of  the  Indian 
Archipelago,  the  tropical  luxuriance  of  Java  and  Sumatra,  and  the  strange  productions 
of  Siam  and  Laos,  of  Burmah  and  Cochin-China,  and  the  far-off  Islands  of  Madagascar 
and  Zanzibar."     Preface. 

Porter,  Mrs  Eleanor  (Hodgman).  j  P8352S 

Six  Star  ranch.     Page. 

Published  in  1913  under  the  pseudonym  Eleanor  Stuart,  with  the  title  "Sunbridge 
girls  at  Six   Star  ranch." 

A  group  of  school  girls  calling  themselves  the  "Happy  Hexagons"  have  a  merry 
summer  on  a  Texas  ranch. 

Porter,  Mrs  Eleanor  (Hodgman). 

Sunbridge  girls  at  Six  Star  ranch.     See  her  Six  Star  ranch. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Porter,  Jane.  j  P836S 

Scottish  chiefs.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Story  telling  of  the  heroic  deeds  and  patriotic  sacrifices  of  William  Wallace  and 
Robert  Bruce.     The  lady  Helen  Mar  is  the  heroine. 

Porter,  Jermain  Gildersleeve.  j  523.8  P83 

Stars  in  song  and  legend.     1901.     Ginn. 

Contains  the  story  of  the  lost  Pleiad,  of  Pegasus,  "that  winged  steed  of  heavenly 
breed!"  of  "Orion,  hunter  of  the  beast"  and  other  myths  and  legends  relating  to  the 
stars.  There  are  numerous  poetical  quotations.  Illustrations  from  the  drawings  of 
Albrecht  Durer. 

Potter,  Beatrix.  j  P8s6r 

Roly-poly  pudding.     Warne. 

Adventures  of  Tom  Kitten  and  his  miraculous  escape  from  a  luckless  fate.  Many 
pictures,  some  of  them  colored. 

Potter,  Beatrix.  j  P8s6tai 

Tailor  of  Gloucester.     Warne. 

Of  the  little  mice  and  the  cherry-colored  buttonholes  ;  a  fairy  tale  for  little  people. 
Colored  pictures. 

Potter,  Beatrix.  j  P856tal 

Tale  of  Benjamin  Bunny.    Warne. 

How  Peter  Rabbit  lost  his  clothes  and  how  Benjamin  Bunny  helped  to  find  them. 
Colored  pictures. 

Potter,  Beatrix.  ,      j  ps56te 

Tale  of  Mrs  Tiggy-winkle.    Warne. 

A  search  for  lost  pocket  handkerchiefs.     Colored  pictures. 

Potter,  Beatrix.  j  P8c6t 

Tale  of  Peter  Rabbit.     Warne. 

How  Peter  Rabbit,  a  naughty  bunny,  crept  through  the  fence  and  made  himself  ill 
eating   Farmer   McGregor's  cabbage.     With   colored  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  279 

Potter,  Beatrix.  j   P8s6ta 

Tale  of  Squirrel   Nutkin.     Warne. 

"This  is  a  Tale  about  a  tail — a  tail  that  belonged  to  a   little  red  squirrel   and   his 
lame  was  Nutkin."     Colored  pictures. 

Poulsson,  Emilie.  j   P866c 

Child  stories  and  rhymes.     Lothrop. 
Picture,   story  and  song  book   for  the  little  folks. 

Poulsson,  Emilie,  comp.  qj  784.8  P86 

Holiday  songs  and  every  day  songs  and  games.     1901.     Bradley. 
Contents:     New  War's  day. — St.  Valentine's  day. — Washington's  birthday. — Spring 
festival. — Easter. — Froebel's    birthday. — Bird    day. — Arbor    day. — May    day.  —  Memorial 
day. — Summer   festival.  —  Fourth    of  July. — Autumn    festival. — Thanksgiving   day. — Win- 
ter  festival. — Christmas.  —  Miscellaneous. 

The  songs  are  simple  and  short,  with  music  by  different  composers.     Illustrated  by 
L.  J.   Bridgman. 

Poulsson,  Emilie.  j  372.2  P86 

In  the  child's  world;  morning  talks  and  stories  for  kindergartens, 
primary  schools  and  homes.     1899.     Bradley. 

Collection  of  short  stories  and  poems  suited  to  little  children,  with  suggesti   ns   t "01 
additional  reading  on  the  subjects  presented. 

Poulsson,  Emilie.  j  811  P86 

The     runaway    donkey,    and    other    rhymes     for    children.       1905. 

Lothrop. 

Rhymes  about  animals.     Most  of  them  are  about  a  pony  and  a  donkey.     Illustrated. 

Poulsson,  Emilie.  qj  784.8  P86s 

Songs  of  a  little  child's  day;  words  by  Emilie  Poulsson,  music  by 
Eleanor  Smith.     1910.     Bradley. 

Sungs  for  fair  days  and  stormy,   for  Christmas  and  other  occasions,   t"t    home  and 
playtime.     Words  and  music  are  simple  enough   for  young  children. 

Poulsson,  Emilie.  j  P866t 

Through  the  farmyard  gate;  rhymes  and  stories  for  little  children. 
Lothrop. 

About    Lummux    the   lamb,    Midget   the   puppy,    Barney   the   dinkey.    Lady   Jane    '.lie 
cow,  Trottino  and  Lapino,  the  wonderful  rabbits,  and  othei    pets  and  animals, 

Poulsson,  Emilie,  &  Poulsson,  L.  E.  tr,  j  P866to 

Top  of  the  world  stories,  for  boys  and  girls;  tr.  from  the  Scandi- 
navian; illustrated  by  F.  L.  Young.     1916.     Lothrop. 

Contents:      Knut   Spelevink;   The   Princess   Lindagull;    Sikku    and   the   trolls;    S 
Lappelil;  A  legend  of  mercy,  by  Zakarias  Topelius. — Anton's  errand;  or,    Tin-  boy  who 
made    friends   by   the   way,    by    Helena    Xyhlom.       die    '    rest    witch;    The    testing    of    the 
two   knights,   by  J.  I..  F,    Krohn. 

Powell,  Baden  Fletcher  Smyth  Baden-     See  Baden-Powell,  Baden 

Fletcher  Smyth. 
Powell,  Lyman  Pierson,  &  Powell,  Mrs  Gertrude  j  808.8  P87 

(Wilson). 
Spirit  of  democracy.     1918.     Rand.     (  Patriotism  through  literature.) 
Collection  of  patriotic  prose  and  poetry,  including  W 

Hughes,  Tnt't  and  Roosevelt  and  selections  from   English,   French,  Belgian  and   [talian 
statesmen  and  writers,     [ntended  for  school  use. 

Powell,    Sir    Robert    Stephenson    Smyth     Baden-.      See    Baden-Powell, 
Sit  Robert  Stephenson   Smyth. 


28o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Powers,  Mabel.  j  398.097  P87 

Stories  the  Iroquois  tell  their  children.     1917.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

American  Indian  folklore  stones,  such  as  How  the  turkey  buzzard  got  his  suit. — 
Why  the  partridge  drums. — Why  the  woodpecker  bores  for  its  food. — Why  the  chip- 
munk has  black  stripes. — How  the  robin  burned  his  breast. 

Author  was  adopted  into  the  Seneca  tribe  and  went  about  among  the  Iroquois  gather- 
ing these  stories  from  the  people. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  973  P88a 

America's  story,  for  America's  children.     5v.     1900.     Heath. 

v.i.  The  beginner's  book.  Contains  short  stories  of  the  Norse  explorers,  Prince 
Montezuma,  Virginia  Dare,  Betty  Alden,  the  Boston  boys,  the  boy  in  blue,  etc. 

v.2.  Stories  of  the  great  discoverers  and  explorers  from  Leif  Ericson  to  Henry 
Hudson. 

v.3.     About  the  early  colonial  settlers  and   their  primitive  ways  of  living. 

v.4.  About  the  adventurous  explorers  of  the  Mississippi  valley  and  the  French 
and  Indian  war. 

v.5.      Stories  of  the  American  revolution. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  973.1  P88 

Cortes  and  Montezuma.     1890.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Story  of  the  conquest  of  Mexico.     For  the  younger  children. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  920  P88 

De  Soto,  Marquette  and  La  Salle.     1895.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Story  of  the  Mississippi  and  its  discoverers. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  92  P676P 

Francisco  Pizarro;  the  conquest  of  Peru.  1890.  Educational  Pub. 
Co. 

For   the   younger   children. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  978  P88 

The  great  West.     1891.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Stories  of  the  mound-builders,  the  Indians,  and  the  Spanish  and  French  discoveries 
in  the  great  West. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  398.097  P88 

Legends  of  the  red  children;  a  supplementary  reader  for  fourth  and 
fifth  grade  pupils.     1897.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Partial  contents:  The  legend  of  the  lightning. — The  star  beautiful.— Will-o'-the- 
wisp. — The  rainbow. — How  the  spring  comes. — The  snail  and  the  beaver. — The  Hiawa- 
tha legend.— The  pole  star.— The  Thunderers. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  973.2  P88 

Stories  of  colonial  children.     1894.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Partial  contents:  Two  babies  of  long  ago.— First  Thanksgiving  day.— Colonial  chil- 
dren's Sabbath.— The  boy  captive.— How  Jack  o'  Lantern  frightened  the  Indians.— Two 
brass  kettles.— Boston  boys.— A  daring  girl.— Col.  Allen  and  his  boys.— A  little  hero. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  afterward  Mrs  Chadwick,  &  j  974.4  P88 

Lovering,  A.  T. 

Stories  of  Massachusetts.     1892.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Historical  stories,  descriptions  of  early  Massachusetts  towns,  sketches  of  famous 
men  and  events,  simply  and  briefly  written. 

Pratt,  Mara  Louise,  aftcnvard  Mrs  Chadwick.  j  523.8  P88 

Storyland  of  stars.     1892.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

The  constellations,  or  "pictures  in  the  sky"  are  marked  out  in  diagram.  Among 
the  stones  are  the  legends  of  Perseus,  Pegasus,  the  twins,  Berenice's  hair,  the  seven 
sisters  and  the  ram  with  the  golden  fleece.  Contains  also  "A  child's  dream  of  a  star," 
by  Charles  Dickens. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  281 

Price,  Lillian  Louise.  j  P943I 

Lads  and  lassies  of  other  days.    Silver. 

Contents:  Letty  Perm's  visit. — An  adventure  with  Captain  Kidd. — My  Aunt  Aurora's 
reticule. — Angela  of  Acadia. — A  witch  hunt  in  Concord. — The  silver  wedding  of  Uncle 
Gideon. — Laetitia  and  the  redcoats. — Cornwallis's  men. — In  the  house  of  a  Tory.— The 
bulb  of  the  crimson  tulip. — The  legs  of  Duncan  Ketcham. 

Price,  Overton  Westfeldt.  j  351.711  P94 

The  land  we  live  in;  the  boys'  book  of  conservation,  with  a  fore- 
word by  Gifford  Pinchot.     191 1.    Small. 

About  the  use  and  the  waste  of  America's  forests,  lands,  waters  and  minerals,  telling 
what  conservation  is  and  why  it  is  necessary.  Many  beautiful  illustrations  from  photo- 
graphs. 

Pringle,  Mary  P.  &  Urann,  C.  A.  j  394  P95 

Yule-tide  in  many  lands;  illustrated  by  L.  J.  Bridgman  and  from 
photographs.     1916.     Lothrop. 

Describes  Christmas  and  New  Year's  customs  in  England,  Germany,  Scandinavia, 
Russia,  France,  Italy,  Spain  and  America.  Introductory  chapter  on  the  Yule-tide  of 
the  ancients. 

Pumphrey,  Margaret  Blanche. 

Pilgrim  stories.    See  her  Stories  of  the  Pilgrims. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Pumphrey,  Margaret  Blanche.  j  973.2  P98 

Stories  of  the  Pilgrims;  illustrated  by  Lucy  Fitch  Perkins.  [1912.] 
Rand. 

Contents:     From  old  homes  to  new. — Little  Pilgrims  and  the   red  men. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Pilgrim  stories." 

Beginning  with  Queen  Anne's  visit  to  Scrooby  inn,  tells  in  story  form  of  the  every- 
day life  of  the  Pilgrims  in  England  and  Holland,  of  their  voyage  on  the  Mayflower  and 
their  adventures  in  the  New  World.  The  Brewster  children  and  other  Pilgrim  boys  and 
girls  are  the  center  of  interest. 

Putnam,  M.  Louise.  j  92  L715P 

Children's  life  of  Abraham  Lincoln.     1905.     McClurg. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  P996g 

Garden  behind  the  moon.    Scribner. 

The  adventures  of  little  Davy,  who  goes  along  the  moonpath  to  the  moon.      Bi 
fully  illustrated. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  Pg96m 

Men  of  iron.     Harper. 

Tale  of  the  doughty  deeds  of  one  Myles  Falworth,  sometime  squii  of  the 

earl  of  Mackworth  and  created  knight  of  the  Bath  by  grace  of  His  Majesty  King  Henry 
the  Fourth. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  398. 22  P99 

Merry  adventures  of  Robin  Hood.     1908.     Scribner. 
How  in  merry  England  in   the  times  of  old  there  lived   within   the  green   glades  of 

Sherwood  forest  a  famous  outlaw  whose  name  was   Robin   Hood  and  how  he  was  al 

tended  by  seven  score  yeomen  bold  who  helped  him  in  his  mad  adventures,     III" 

by  the  author. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  P9960 

Otto  of  the  silver  hand.     Scribner. 
The  kidnapping  of  Otto  and  his  adventures  among   rough   soldiers;   a   tale  of  the 

olden  days  of  romance,  of  robber  barons  and  suds 


282  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Pyle,  Howard.  qj  P996p 

Pepper  &  salt;  or,  Seasoning  for  young  folks.     Harper. 

Marvelous  tales  from  Wonderland,  with  delightful  pictures;  also  "Ye  song  of  ye 
foolish  old  woman,"  "Ye  romantic  adventures  of  three  tailors"  and  other  verses. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  398.22  P99S 

Some  merry  adventures  of  Robin  Hood,  of  great  renown  in  Not- 
tinghamshire.    1902.     Scribner. 

Adventures  selected  by  the  author  from  his  "Merry  adventures  of  Robin  Hood." 
Many  incidents  are  omitted  and  certain   parts   rewritten. 

Pyle,  Howard.  *  j  Pgg6st 

Stolen  treasure.     Harper. 

Contents:  With  the  buccaneers. — Tom  Chist  and  the  treasure-box. — The  ghost  of 
Captain  Brand. — The  devil  at  New  Hope. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j   Pgg6s 

Story  of  Jack  Ballister's  fortunes.     Century. 

Narrative  of  the  adventures  of  a  young  gentleman  of  good  family,  who  was  kid- 
napped in  the  year  1719  and  carried  to  the  plantations  of  Virginia,  where  he  fell  in 
with  that  famous  pirate,  Capt.  Edward  Teach,  or  Blackbeard;  of  his  escape  from  the 
pirates  and  the  rescue  of  a  young  lady  from  out  their  hands. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  398.25  P99 

Story  of  King  Arthur  and  his  knights.     191 1.     Scribner. 

Contents :  The  winning  of  kinghood. — The  winning  of  a  sword. — The  winning  cf 
a  queen. — The  story  of  Merlin. — The  story  of  Sir  Pellias. — The  story  of  Sir  Gawaine. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 30,  Nov.  1902-Oct.  1903. 

"Mee  thinketh  this  present  booke  is  right  necessary  often  to  be  read,  for  in  it  shall 
yee  finde  the  most  gracious,  knightly,  and  vertuous  war  of  the  most  noble  knights  of 
the  world,  whereby  they  gat  praysing  continually." 

Illustrated  by  the  author. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  398.25  P99S 

Story  of  Sir  Launcelot  and  his  companions.     1910.     Scribner. 

"Wherefore  if  it  will  please  you  to  read  that  which  is  hereinafter  set  forth,  you 
will  be  told  of  how  Sir  Launcelot  slew  the  great  Worm  of  Corbin;  of  the  madness  that 
afterward  fell  upon  him,  and  of  how  a  most  noble,  gentle,  and  beautiful  lady,  hight  the 
Lady  Elaine  the  Fair,  lent  him  aid  and  succor  at  a  time  of  utmost  affliction  to  him,  and 
so  brought  him  back  to  health  again."  Preface. 

Illustrated  by  the  author. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  398.25  Pggsto 

Story  of  the  champions  of  the  Round  Table.     1910.     Scribner. 

Contents:     Story  of  Launcelot. — Book  of  Sir  Tristram. — Book  of  Sir  Percival. 

In  this  book  it  is  told  how  Sir  Lancelot  "was  taken  into  a  magic  lake,  how  he  came 
out  thence  to  be  made  knight  by  King  Arthur  and  of  how  he  undertook  several  of  those 
adventures  that  made  him  at  once  the  wonder  and  the  admiration  of  all  men  and  the 
chiefest  glory  of  the  Round  Table  of  Arthur-Pendragon."  Also  tells  of  the  melancholy 
Tristram  and  the  lady  Belle  Isoult  and  of  Sir  Percival  the  Happy-hearted. 

"For  I  believe  that  King  Arthur  was  the  most  honorable,  gentle  Knight  who  evei 
lived  in  all  the  world.  And  those  who  were  his  fellows  of  the  Round  Table — taking  him 
as  their  looking-glass  of  chivalry — made,  altogether,  such  a  company  of  noble  knights 
that  it  is  hardly  to  be  supposed  that  their  like  will  ever  be  seen  again  in  this  world." 
Howard  Pyle. 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  398.25  Pggst 

Story  of  the  Grail  and  the  passing  of  Arthur.     1910.    Scribner. 

Here  beginneth  the  story  of  Sir  Geraint  the  bold  and  the  gentle  Enid.  The  tale  also 
telleth  of  the  quest  of  Sir  Galahad  for  the  Holy  Grail  and  of  its  exaltation  into  Paradise, 
of  the  death  of  Sir  Lancelot  and  the  passing  of  Arthur. 

The  last  of  a  series  of  books  relating  the  adventures  of  King  Arthur  and  the  Round 
Table  knights.  The  others,  in  the  order  in  which  they  should  be  read,  are,  "Story  of 
King  Arthur  and  his  knights,"  "Story  of  the  champions  of  the  Round  Table,"  "Story 
of  Sir  Launcelot  and  his  companions." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  283 

Pyle,  Howard.  j  Pgg6t 

Twilight   land.     Harper. 

Aladdin  and  Ali  Raba,  Fortunatis  and  Jack-the-giant-killer,  Doctor  Faustus  and  Cin- 
derella, St.  George  and  the  soldier  who  cheated  the  devil  are  all  gathered  together  at 
the  Mother  Goose  inn  in  Twilight   land.     In  turn  each   tells  a  marvelous  story. 

Pyle,  Howard.  qj  P996W 

Wonder  clock.     Harper. 

Twenty-four   marvelous  tales,   one   for   each   hour  of  the   day. 

Partial  contents:  The  water  of  life. —  How  three  went  out  into  the  wide  world. — 
The  princess  Golden  Hair  and  the  great  black   raven.  —  One  good  turn  deserves  another. 

— Peterkin  and  the  little  gray  hare. — The  simpleton  and  his  little  black  hen. — King 
Stork. 

Pyle,  Katharine.  j  811  P99C 

Careless  Jane,  and  other  tales.     1895.     Dutton. 

Also   published   under  the  title   "The   rabbit    witch,   and   other   tales." 
Twelve  tales  of  wicked  boy  and  girl, 
Of  careless  Jane  and  boisterous  Ann  ; 
'Twill  make  your  very  hair  uncurl 
To  read  the  dreadful  risks  they  ran. 
The  pictures   too  are  fearsome   sights, 
Weird   Rabbit   Witch  and   Robber   Rat, 
With   George,  and   'Liza  Ann's  sad  plights, 
Fierce  Ogress   and   the   Wise   Old   Cat. 

Pyle,  Katharine.  j  Pgg6ich 

Christmas  angel.     Little. 

Mary's  search  for  Kris  Kringle's  grandmother  and  her  adventures  in  the  Wonder 
country  where  all  the  toys  are  alive. 

Pyle,  Katharine.  j  P9961C 

The  counterpane   fairy.     Dutton. 

The  counterpane  fairy  comes  day  after  day  to  little  Teddy  who  is  ill  and  carries 
him  far  away  to  magic  lands. 

Pyle,  Katharine.  j  Pgg6in 

Nancy  Rutledge;  illustrated  by  the  author.     Little. 

Nancy  is  a  little  eight-year-old  girl  who  moves  from  the  country  to  the  city  and 
has  many  merry  times  with  her  cousin  Gladys  and  her  new  school  friends. 

Pyle,   Katharine. 

Rabbit  witch,  and  other  tales.  Sec  her  Careless  Jane,  and  other 
tales. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 
Pyle,   Katharine.  j  P9961S 

Stories  of  humble  friends.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Partial  contents:  The  flying  squirrel.  —  The  opossum  family.  -The  story  of  a  slave. 
— The  tame  bat. — The  two  little  crabs. — Janus  Crow.  The  pel  lamb.  -Graywings. — The 
story  of  a  caterpillar. — The  captive  robin.      Firefly.      Flora  and   hei    cat. 

Pyle,  Katharine,  &  Portor,  L.  S.  j  Pgg6it 

Theodora;  illustrated  from  drawings  by  W.  A.  McCullough.  Little. 
What  Theodora,  a  rich,  motherless  little  girl,  did  one  year  at  boarding  school.     Teds 

about  the  day  ■.in-  ran  away,  of  hei  two  Christmas  parties  and  of  how  -In'  kept  a  promisi 

Pyle,  Katharine.  qj  398  P99W 

Where    the    wind    blows;    ten    fairy-talcs    from    ten    nations.       Mjuj. 

Dutton. 

Contents:      Wanderings    of    Vicram    Maharajah.      (Jrashima  mirror. 

ed  swan.     The   fisherman  and  the  genii.     Thoi    at  Jotunheim.     Guleesh   n 

Dhu. — Vasilissa  the  fair. — The  marriage  ol  .su   Gawain       Perseus. 


284  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Quayle,  William  Alfred.  j  814  Q21 

In  God's  out-of-doors.     1902.     Methodist  Book  Concern. 

Partial  contents:     On  seeing. — When   spring  comes   home. — Winter  trees. — Golden 

rod. — The  falls  of  St.  Croix. — A  walk  along  a  railroad  in  June. — The  windings  of  a 
stream. — My    farm. — Gloaming. 

Many   beautiful    photographic    illustrations. 

Quennell,  Marjorie,  &  Quennell,  C.  H.  B.  j  914.2  Q25 

History  of  everyday  things  in  England.  2  pts.  in  2v.  [1918-19.] 
Batsford. 

pt.i.     1066-1499. 

pt.2.        1500-1799. 

Bibliography,  pt.i,  pref.  p. 12-13;  Pt-2>  pref.  p.10-11. 

Fascinating  book  describing  and  illustrating  the  life  of  the  people  at  different 
periods.  Tells  about  the  things  they  used,  how  they  passed  their  time,  how  they  dressed 
and  what  sort  of  work  they  did.  Methods  of  warfare,  modes  of  travel,  combats  and 
tourneys,  games,  fairs  and  miracle-plays  are  among  the  topics  treated.  Contains  draw- 
ings and  plans  of  castles  and  manor-houses,  colored  plates  showing  costumes,  pictures 
of  halls  and  "solars,"  of  churches,  ships,  mills,  pottery  and  other  utensils. 

Quiller-Couch,  Sir  Arthur  Thomas.     See  Couch,  Sir  Arthur  Thomas 
Quiller. 

Quirk,  Leslie  W.  j  Q44b 

Baby  Elton,  quarter-back.  Grosset.  (Every  boy's  library;  boy 
scout  edition.) 

"Baby  Elton's"  freshman  year  at  college.  How  he  played  football  and  baseball 
and  became  captain  of  the  track  team. 

Certain  chapters  appeared,  in  altered  form,  as  short  stories  in  "St.  Nicholas," 
"Youth's  companion,"  "American  boy,"  and  "Forward." 

Quirk,  Leslie  W.  j  Q441 

Freshman  Dorn,  pitcher.     Century. 

"A  University  of  Wisconsin  freshman's  not-too-easily  won  success  on  the  diamond, 
the  gridiron  and  the  cinder  track.  Baseball  and  football  games  and  a  boat  race  are  well 
described."     Booklist,  1911. 

Quirk,  Leslie  W.  j  Q4411" 

Freshmen  friends.     Donohue. 

Story  of  school  and  athletics. 

Rackham,  Arthur.  qj  741  R12 

Arthur  Rackham's  book  of  pictures,  with  an  introduction  by  Sir 
Arthur  Quiller-Couch.     [1914.]     Century. 

"If  there  were  no  such  beings  as  fairies,  the  children  would  have  to  invent  them — 
pixies,  nixies,  gnomes,  goblins,  elves,  kobbolds  and  the  rest."     Introduction. 

Colored  pictures  of  these  "little  people,"  also  of  well  known  characters  of  fairy  tale 
and  myth  and  of  other  marvelous  folk.     No  text. 

Radcliffe- Whitehead,  Mrs  Jane  Byrd  (McCall).     See  Whitehead,  Mrs 
Jane  Byrd  (McCall)  Radcliffe- 

Radford,  Maude  Lavinia.    See  Warren,  Mrs  Maude  Lavinia  (Radford). 

Ragozin,  Mme  Zenaide  Alexeievna.  j  398.2  R15 

Frithjof,  the  viking  of  Norway,  and  Roland,  the  paladin  of  France. 
1899.     Putnam.     (Tales  of  the  heroic  ages.) 

The  first  of  these  two  stories  tells  of  a  great  viking's  love,  his  bold  deeds  and  his 
misfortunes.  It  is  adapted  from  the  epic  poem  of  Esaias  Tegner.  The  second  story  de- 
scribes the  heroic  struggle  of  the  rear-guard  of  Charlemagne,  trapped  in  the  narrow 
gorges  of  the  Pyrenees.     Illustrated. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  285 

Ragozin,  Mme  Zenaide  Alexeievna.  j  398.27  R15 

Siegfried,  the  hero  of  the  north,  and  Beowulf,  the  hero  of  the 
Anglo-Saxons.     1898.     Putnam.     (Tales  of  the  heroic  ages.) 

Two  legendary  tales  of  old.  The  first  tells  of  the  treasure  of  the  Nibelungs  and  of 
the  champions  bold  and  ladies  fair,  renowned  in  German  story  and  song.  The  other 
tells  of  a  noble  hero  of  the  Saxons  and  of  the  great  deeds  which  he  wrought. 

Ralston,  Mrs  Virginia.  j  646  R17 

When  mother  lets  us  sew.     1910.    Moffat. 

How  to  make  "doll  baby"  clothes,  petticoats,  nightgowns,  frocks  and  coats.  Tells 
how  to  baste,  catch-stitch,  gather,  darn  and  buttonhole.  Attractive  pictures  and  simple 
working  drawings. 

Ramee,  Louisa  de  la,  {pseud.  Ouida).  j  Ri75bi2 

Bimbi;  stories  for  children.     Lippincott. 

Contents:     Moufflou. — A  Provence  rose. — Lampblack. — The  ambitious   rose  tree. — 
The   child    of   Urbino. — Meleagris    Gallopavo. — Findclkind. 
Illustrations  in  color  by  Maria  L.   Kirk. 

Ramee,  Louisa  de  la,  {pseud.  Ouida).  j  R175C 

Child  of  Urbino,  and  Meleagris  Gallopavo.     Lippincott. 

How  the  seven-year-old  child  artist,  Raphael,  the  child  of  Urbino,  won  his  first 
prize.  "Meleagris  Gallopavo"  tells  of  the  fate  of  a  turkey  whose  pride  in  his  family 
name  proved  his  undoing. 

Ramee,  Louisa  de  la,  {pseud.  Ouida).  j  Ri75d2 

Dog  of  Flanders.     Lippincott. 

Of  an  orphan  boy  and  his  faithful  friend  Patrasche,  the  big  dog  of  Flanders. 

The  same,  The  Niirnberg  stove,  and  other  stories;  with  illustrations 
in  color  by  M.  L.  Kirk.     Lippincott j  Ri75d4 

Other  stories:     In  the  apple-country. — The  little  earl. 

Ramee,  Louisa  de  la,  {pseud.  Ouida).  j  Ri75i 

In  the  apple-country,  and  Findelkind.     Lippincott. 

"In  the  apple-country"  is  a  story  of  an  Italian  dancing-girl.  "Findelkind"  tells  of 
a  little  boy  of  the  Tyrol  and  of  his  quest. 

Ramee,  Louisa  de  la,  {pseud.  Ouida).  j  R175I 

The  little  earl.     Lippincott. 

The  little  eight-year-old  earl's  day  of  wandering  and  freedom;  how  it  ended  and 
what  he  learned. 

Ramee,  Louisa  de  la,  {pseud.  Ouida).  j  Ri75m 

Moufflou,  and  other  stories.     Lippincott. 
Story  of  a  little  Italian  boy  and  his  pet  poodle. 
Other  stories:     Lampblack. — The  ambitious  rose-tree. 

Ramee,  Louisa  de  la,  (pseud.  Ouida).  j  Ri75n 

The  Niirnberg  stove.     Lippincott. 

Story  of  a  little  boy  of  the  Tyrol  and  of  his  strange  winter's  journey  in  a  porcelain 
stove. 

Randall,  Lida  E.  j  914.81  R18 

Little  journey  to  Norway  and  Sweden;  for  home  and  school,  inter 

mediate   and   upper   grades;   ed.  by    M.  M.   George.      1904.      Flanagan. 

(Library  of  travel.) 

Describes  the  land  of  mountains  and  ice-fields,  of  waterfalls  and   fiord'-,  and  of  the 

midnight   sun.      Also  tells   many   interesting  things   about   the   life  and   customs   of   the 

people  "f  Sweden. 

Rankin,  Mrs  Carroll  (Watson).  j  Ri94a 

The  adopting  of  Rosa  Marie.    Holt. 

More  adventures  of  the  little  girl  housekeepers  of  "Dandelion   cotl 


286  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Rankin,  Mrs  Carroll  (Watson).  j  Ri94d 

Dandelion  cottage.    Holt. 

About  four  girls  and  their  housekeeping  in  a  tiny  cottage.  Continued  by  "The 
adopting  of  Rosa  Marie." 

Rankin,  Mrs  Carroll  (Watson).  j  Ri94g 

Girls  of  Gardenville.    Holt. 

Contents:  Caroline  of  the  sweet  sixteen. — Sustaining  a  borrowed  reputation. — An 
untransferable  gift. — How  Caroline  improved  the  cooking. — -Margery  Danvers,  fireman. 
— The  tribulations  of  a  triplet. — A  case  of  suspended  gratitude. — When  Tekla  carried  the 
basket. — Sailing  under  sealed  orders. — Cousin  Emily's  revolt. — Days  and  dollars. — The 
helpfulness  of  Virginia. — Disposing  of  Julius  Caesar. — The  quest  of  the  Hallow  e'en 
pumpkin. — Finishing  a  beginner. 

Ransome,  Arthur.  j  398  R19 

Old  Peter's  Russian  tales,  with  illustrations,  cover  design  and  deco- 
rations by  Dmitri  Mitrokhin.     [1917J     Stokes. 

An  old  forester  tells  his  little  grandchildren  about  the  daughter  of  the  snow,  the 
boy  who  saw  the  czar  of  the  sea,  Prince  Ivan  and  the  witch  baby,  and  other  strange 
tales.     Colored  pictures. 

Raspe,  Rudolf  Erich.  j  R2i5t 

Tales  from  the  travels  of  Baron  Munchausen;  ed.  by  E.  E.  Hale. 
Heath. 

Herein  is  related  how  the  baron  drove  a  wolf  in  harness;  how  a  lion  jumped  into 
a  crocodile's  mouth,  the  baron  thus  being  saved;  also  how  and  why  his  cloak  went  mad. 

Ravenel,  Samuel  W.  j  625.7  R23 

Ravenel's  road  primer  for  school  children.     1912.     McClurg- 

Need  and  effects  of  good  roads  and  the  elementary  principles  and  practices  of  road 
making.     Illustrated. 

Ray,  Anna  Chapin.  j  R24in 

Nathalie's  chum.     Little. 

Story  of  a  fifteen-year  old  girl  and  her  brother.  Scene  is  laid  in  New  York  and  a 
number  of  characters  in  "Phebe,   her  profession"   reappear. 

Ray,  Anna  Chapin.  j  R241P 

Phebe,  her  profession.     Little. 

The  "romance"  of  Phebe  McAlister,  who  wanted  to  be  a  doctor.  Sequel  to 
"Teddy,  her  book." 

Ray,  Anna  Chapin.  j  R24it 

Teddy,  her  book;  a  story  of  sweet  sixteen.     Little. 

Jolly  fellowship  of  a  strong,  healthy  girl  and  a  sick  lad. 

Ray,  Anna  Chapin.  j  R24ite 

Teddy,  her  daughter.     Little. 

Betty's  happy  summer  at  Quantuck  and  of  the  good  friend  whom  she  found  there. 
Sequel  to  "Teddy"  and  "Phebe." 

Reade,  Charles.  j  R253C 

Cloister  and  the  hearth.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

A  mediaeval  romance.  The  hero  escapes  from  the  haunted  tower  of  the  stadthouse 
of  Tergou  and  in  his  travels  encounters  a  host  of  plots  and  perils. 

Redway,  Jacques  Wardlaw.  j  915  R27 

All  around  Asia.    1910.    Scribner.    (Redway's  geographical  readers.) 

Starting  at  St.  Petersburg,  describes  an  imaginary  journey  across  Russia  and  Siberia 
to  Vladivostok  on  the  Pacific  coast  and  from  there  to  Korea,  China,  Japan,  India,  Siam, 
Burma,  Persia,  Arabia  and  the  Holy  Land.     Useful  for  school  work. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  287 

Redway,  Jacques  Wardlaw,  &  Hinman,  Russell.  qj  910  R27a 

Natural  advanced  geography  [Pennsylvania  and  New  Jersey  edi- 
tion],    iqoi.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Treats  of  the  earth,  its  physical  features,  plants,  animals  and  human  inhabitants  and 
of  the  various  parts  or  countries.  Maps  and  many  pictures  from  photographs.  Useful 
for  school  work. 

Redway,  Jacques  Wardlaw,  &  Hinman,  Russell.  qj  910  R27n 

Natural  elementary  geography.  1897.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Natural 
geographies.) 

Reid,  Whitelaw,  and  others.  j  174  R31 

Careers  for  the  coming  men;  practical  and  authoritative  discussions 
of  the  professions  and  callings  open  to  young  Americans.  1904.  Saal- 
field. 

Contents:  Introduction. — The  army,  by  A.  L.  Mills. — Teaching,  by  Rush  Rhees. — 
The  navy,  by  G.  W.  Melville. — Commercial  life,  by  C.  S.  Smith. — The  church,  by  G.  B. 
Stewart. — Medicine,  by  D.  B.  St.  J.  Roosa. — Railroading,  by  G.  H.  Daniels. — Architec- 
ture, by  Thomas  Hastings. — Electricity,  by  T.  C.  Martin. — Law,  by  J.  De\V.  Warner. — 
Mechanical  engineering,  by  R.  H.  Thurston. — Mining  engineering,  by  T.  A.  Rickard. — 
Civil  engineering,  by  G.  F.  Swain. — Real  estate,  by  William  Chesebrough. — -Life  in- 
surance, by  J.  F.  Dryden. — Public  service,  by  C.  N.  Fowler. — Advertising,  by  M.  M. 
Gillam. —  Farming,  by  L.H.Bailey. —  Journalism,  by  Whitelaw  Reid. —  The  stage,  by 
J.  K.  Hackett. — Publishing,  by  F.  N.  Doubleday. — Banking,  by  Bradford  Rhodes. — 
Authorship,  by  C.  T.   Brady. 

Reinecke,  Carl  Heinrich  Carsten.  qj  784.8  R31 

Fifty  children's  songs,  with  German  and  English  words.  1901. 
Schirmer. 

Reinsch,  Paul  Samuel.  j  353  R32 

Young  citizen's  reader.     1916.     Sanborn. 

Contents:  The  government  and  the  citizen. — What  governments  do. — The  organiza- 
tion of  the  government. — Some  American  ideals. — Analysis  of  the  Federal  constitution. 

Remington,  Frederic.  j  R333C 

Crooked  trails.    Harper. 

Contents:  How  the  law  got  into  the  chaparral. — The  blue  quail  of  the  cactus. — A 
sergeant  of  the  orphan  troop. — The  spirit  of  Mahongui. — The  essentials  at  Fort  Adobe. 
— Massai's  crooked  trail. — Joshua  Goodenough's  old  letter. — 'Cracker  cowboys  of  Florida. 
— The  strange  days  that  came  to  Jimmie  Friday. — The  Soledad  girls. 

Vivid  stories  of  out-door  life  on  the  plains,  in  Mexico,  in  Canada  and  in  Florida. 
Illustrated  by  the  author. 

The  same.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edi- 
tion.)   j    R333C 

Remington,  Frederic.  j  9178  R33 

Pony  tracks.     1895.     Harper. 

Adventures  with  Gen.  Miles  in  the  Northwest,  scouting  expeditions  in  the  Bad 
lands,  ranch  life,  bear  hunting,  police  duty  in  the  Yellowstone,  etc.  Many  of  the 
author's  own  pictures  of  cavalrymen,  cowboys,  Indians,  "greasers"  and  horses. 

Remus,  Uncle,  pseud.    See  Harris,  Joel  Chandler. 

Renninger,  Elizabeth  D.  j  891.5  Fsir 

Story  of   Rustem,  and  other   Persian   hero  tales   from   Firdusi,  by 

E.  D.  Renninger.     1909.     Scribner. 

Full  of  wild  and  romantic  adventures.     Besidea  telling  of  the  exploits  of  Ruatem 

the  Mighty,  there  are  stories  of  Jehishid  the  Proud,  of  the  white  haired  ZaJ  who  was 

protected  by  the  great  Simurgh,  the  bird  of  marvel,  of  the  hero-prince  who  vanquished 

the  demons,   and   of   the   brave   Isfendiyar's  seven   labors. 


288  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Repplier,  Agnes,  comp.  j  821.08  R35 

Book  of  famous  verse.     1896.     Houghton. 

"Martial  strains  which  fire  the  blood,  fairy  music  ringing  in  the  ears,  half-told 
tales  which  set  the  young  heart  dreaming,  brave  deeds,  unhappy  fates,  sombre  ballads, 
keen,  joyous  lyrics,  and  small  jewelled  verses,  where  every  word  shines  like  a  polished 
gem, — all  these  good  things  the  children  know  and  love."    Preface. 

Revolutionary  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.    Century.  j  R371 

Contents:  That  Bunker  Hill  powder. — Boston  boys. — Laetitia  and  the  redcoats. — 
A  young  hero. — How  a  woman  saved  an  army. — The  bulb  of  the  crimson  tulip. — Molly 
Pitcher. — The  youngest  soldier  of  the  Revolution. — "Belinda"  in  the  fore-room. — Corn- 
wallis's  buckles. — Elizabeth  Zane. — La  Fayette. — How  grandmother  met  the  marquis  de 
La  Fayette. — A  great  republican  at  court. — Pine-knots  versus  pistols. — -The  artist-soldier. 
— Lord  Cornwallis's  day. — The  little  lord  of  the  manor. 

Rhead,  Louis  John.  j  398.22  R38 

Bold  Robin  Hood  and  his  outlaw  band;  their  exploits  in  Sherwood 
forest;  penned  and  pictured  by  Louis  Rhead.     1912.    Harper. 

Retold  from  the  English  ballads.  Contains  a  map  of  the  royal  hunting  forests 
wliere  Robin  Hood  lived  and  full-page  pictures  of  Robin,  Little  John,  Master  Will 
Scarlet,  Friar  Tuck,  Ye  tinker,  Ye  sheriff  of  Nottingham,  Ye  good  queen  Eleanor  and 
other  characters  of  the  ballads.  Author  was  born  in  the  same  country  as  Robin  Hood 
and  spent  much  of  his  early  life  roaming  about  what  still  remains  of  Sherwood  and 
Needwood  forests. 

Rhys,  Ernest,  comp.  j  398  R38 

Fairy-gold;  a  book  of  old  English  fairy  tales.     1906.     Dent. 

Here  are  legends  of  fairies,  elves,  brownies,  pixies  that  gave  "pinches,  nips  and 
bobs"  to  the  lazy  and  rewarded  the  industrious,  of  dragons  and  "loathly  worms"  that 
laid  waste  fair  lands  and  of  valiant  knights  who  rescued  the  unfortunate. 

Rice,  Mrs  Alice  Caldwell  (Hegan).  j  R394I 

Lovey  Mary.    Century. 

Appeared  in  the  "Century  magazine,"  v.65,   Dec.    1902-March   1903. 
Story  of  a  runaway  orphan  girl  who  finds  friends  in  the   Cabbage  Patch. 

Rice,  Mrs  Alice  Caldwell  (Hegan).  j  R394m 

Mrs  Wiggs  of  the  Cabbage  Patch.    Century. 

"The  Wiggses  lived  in  the  Cabbage  Patch.  It  was  not  a  real  cabbage  patch,  but  a 
queer  neighborhood  where  ramshackle  cottages  played  hop-scotch  over  the  railroad 
tracks." 

Rice,  Grantland,  ed.  j  796  R39 

Boys'  book  of  sports.     1917.     Century. 

Christy  Mathewson  tells  how  he  became  a  "Big  League"  pitcher  and  there  are  other 
articles  about  baseball,  football,  golf,  tennis,  swimming,  etc.,  by  Billy  Evans,  Parke 
Davis,  Francis  Ouimet,   and  others.     Selections  are  from  "St.   Nicholas." 

Rice,  Katharine  McDowell.  j  793.1  R39 

Good  King  Wenceslas;  a  Christmas  play  for  children  in  two  acts. 
1907.    Privately  printed. 

Rice,  Susan  Tracy,  comp.  j  808.8  R39 

Easter;  its  history,  celebration,  spirit  and  significance  as  related  in 
prose  and  verse;  ed.  by  R.  H.  Schauffler.  1916.  Moffat.  (Our  Ameri- 
can holidays.) 

Contents:  Celebration. — Spirit  and  significance. — Hymns  and  carols. — Immortality. 
— Fiction  and  drama. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST 


Rich,  Grace  Ellingwood.  j  790  R39 

When  mother  lets  us  make  paper  box  furniture;  a  book  which 
shows  children  just  how  to  make  most  attractive  toy  furniture  out  of 
materials  which  cost  practically  nothing,  toys  which  give  as  much 
pleasure  as  those  from  expensive  toy  shops.     1915.     Moffat. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  92  A2iir 

Abigail  Adams  and  her  times.     1917.     Appleton. 

Well  written  account  of  a  lovable  and  individual  woman,  the  wife  of  the  second 
president  of  the  United  States  and  the  mother  of  John  Quincy  Adams.  Contains  ex- 
tracts from  letters  and  from  John  Adams's  personal  diary. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R411C 

Captain  January.    Page. 
Story  of  an  old  lighthouse  keeper  and  a  little  girl  rescued  by  him  from  the  sea. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  92  Fg75r 

Elizabeth  Fry,  the  angel  of  the  prisons.     1918.    Appleton. 

The  record  of  an  heroic  life.  Elizabeth  Fry  had  wonderful  influence  over  the 
women  of  Newgate  and  she  labored  in  the  cause  of  prison  reform,  not  only  in  England, 
but  in  other  countries  as  well.  She  was  also  instrumental  in  establishing  coast-guard 
libraries,  nursing  associations  and  other  philanthropic  enterprises. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iife 

Fernley  house.     Page. 

Fourth  in  the  Margaret  Montfort  series,  in  which  more  of  the  mysteries  of  Fernley 
are  revealed. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iifi 

Five  mice  in  a  mouse-trap.     Page. 

Nibble,  Brighteyes,  Fluff,  Puff  and  Downy  the  baby,  were  not  mice  at  all,  but  five 
jolly  children  who  lived  in  a  queer  house  called  the  Mousetrap,  in  the  town  of  Nomatter- 
what.     This  is  the  story  of  their  mischief  and  fun  as  told  by  the  man  in  the  moon. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iif 

Five  minute  stories.    Page. 

Short  stories  and  merry  rhymes  and  jingles  about  little  children  and  animals. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  92  N33gr 

Florence  Nightingale,  the  angel  of  the  Crimea;  a  story  for  young 
people.     1917.    Appleton. 

Short  life  of  the  English  "squire's  daughter"  who  became  a  hospital  nurse,  telling 
especially  of  her  heroic  and  patriotic  service  during  the  Crimean  war.  It  was  of 
Florence   Nightingale   that    Longfellow   wrote, — 

"A  lady  with  a  lamp  shall  stand 
In  the  great  history  of  the  land, 
A  noble  type  of  good, 
Heroic     womanhood." 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe),  cd.  j  R4iifo 

Four  feet,  two  feet  and  no  feet;  or,  Furry  and  feathery  pets,  and 
how  they  live.     Page. 

Short  stories  about  animals  for  the  younger  children. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iih 

Hildegarde's  harvest.     Page. 

The  girls  who  have  followed  "Queen  Hildegarde"  through  the  first  four  volumes 
of  this  series  will  rejoice  over  the  harvest  she  reaps  from  her  loving  and  lovable  deeds. 


2Q0  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iihi 

Hildegarde's  holiday.     Page. 

In  which  Hildegarde  Graham  and  Pink  Chick  spend  a  delightful  summer  in  the 
country.     Sequel  to  "Queen  Hildegarde." 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R411I10 

Hildegarde's  home.     Page. 

The  home  is  a  cozy  country  house  full  of  curious  associations  and  quaint  furniture. 
Here  Hildegarde  and  her  mother  live  and  have  many  delightful  experiences.  Sequel  to 
"Hildegarde's  holiday." 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iihn 

Hildegarde's  neighbors.     Page. 

A  jolly  family  of  boys  and  girls  full  of  mischief  and  fun.  They  take  Hildegarde 
into  their  midst  and  the  story  tells  of  their  merrymaking.  Sequel  to  "Hildegarde's 
home." 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iimar 

Margaret  Montfort.     Page. 

Sequel  to  "Three  Margarets,"  telling  how  one  of  the  cousins  kept  house  for  her 
uncle. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iime 

The  Merryweathers.     Page. 

The  happy  family  life  of  the  Merryweathers  while  camping  on  an  island.  Sequel 
to  "Fernley  house." 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R411P 

Peggy.    Page. 

How  one  of  the  "three  Margarets"  went  to  boarding-school.  Sequel  to  "Margaret 
Montfort." 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iiq 

Queen  Hildegarde;  a  story  for  girls.    Page. 

Queen  Hildegarde  was  a  rich  little  girl  and  an  extremely  peevish,  disagreeable, 
discontented  one;  so  her  mother  sent  her  to  a  quiet  country  home  and  the  story 
tells  what  happened  to  her. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iiqu 

Quicksilver  Sue.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 26,  May-Sept.   1899. 

"Quicksilver  Sue"  formed  a  romantic  attachment  to  a  girl  because  her  name  was 
Clarice,  and  the  story  tells  why  she  gave  up  this  "most  intimate"  friend  to  become  one 
of  the  "Faithful  Five." 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iith 

Three  Margarets.     Page. 

How  three  cousins,  beautiful  Cuban  Rita,  gentle  city-bred  Margaret,  and  fly-away 
Peggy  from  the  Western  prairies,  meet  for  the  first  time  at  their  uncle's  country  home 
and  spend  a  summer  vacation  together.  The  story  is  filled  with  moving  panels,  secret 
staircases,  walking  ghosts  and  mystery. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  R4iitr 

Three  minute  stories;  illustrated  by  J.  H.  Bruce.    Page. 

Short  stories  and  rhymes  about  children,  animals  and  birds. 

Richards,  Mrs  Laura  Elizabeth  (Howe).  j  92  R411 

When  I  was  your  age.     1895.     Page. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.19,  Jan. -Sept.   1892. 

Record  of  the  sayings,  doings,  pranks  and  mischief  of  the  four  little  daughters  of 
Julia  Ward  Howe,  author  of  the  "Battle  hymn  of  the  Republic." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  291 

Richman,  Julia,  &  Wallach,  Mrs  Isabel  (Richman).  j  352  R42 

Good  citizenship.     1908.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Explains  the  work  of  the  New  York  city  fire,  police,  street  cleaning  and  health  de- 
partments.    Illustrated. 

Rideing,  William  Henry.  j  928  R43 

Boyhood  of  famous  authors.     1908.     Crowell. 

Contents:  T.  B.  Aldrich. — Boyesen. — Edward  Eggleston. — Edward  Everett  Hale. — 
T.  VV.  Higginson. — Holmes. — Howells. — Kipling. — Lowell. — James  Payn. — W.  C.  Russell. 
— E.  C.    Stedman. — Stevenson. — Stockton. — J.  T.    Trowbridge. — Warner. — Whittier. 

Also  published  with   the  title  "The  boyhood  of  living  authors." 

Riggs,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas  Wiggin.    Sec  Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas. 

Riley,  Mrs  Alice  Cushing  (Donaldson),  &  Gaynor,  j  784.8  R45P 

Mrs  J.  L.  (Smith). 
Playtime  songs  for  the  school  room.     1911.     Summy. 

Includes  The  cucumber  boat. — The  discontented  duckling. — The  ginger-bread  man. 
— Little  green  frog. — My  dear  Jerushy. — Pussy  Willow.— The  slumber  boat. — A  tiny 
fish  I'd  like  to  be. — Yourself. 

Riley,  Mrs  Alice  Cushing  (Donaldson),  &  Gaynor,  qj  784.8  R45 

Mrs  J.  L.  (Smith). 

Songs  of  the  child-world;  words  by  A.  C.  D.  Riley,  music  by  J.  L. 

Gaynor.    2v.     1897-1904.     Church. 

Songs  for  little  children.  There  are  trade  songs,  songs  of  the  seasons,  flowers, 
birds,  insects  and  animals,  action  songs,  songs  for  games  and   for  special  occasions. 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R45b 

Book  of  joyous  children  [poems].     1902.     Scribner. 
Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R45 

Child-world.     1896.     Bobbs. 

A  story  poem  is  this  "Child-world,"  the  center  of  which  is  "a  simple  old  frame- 
house — eight  rooms  in  all"  in  a  little  Indiana  town.  In  this  old  house  are  brought 
before  us  a  company  of  children  and  the  old  folk  who  played  with  them  and  told  them 
stories. 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R450I 

The  old  swimmin'-hole,  and  other  poems,  with  pictures  by  Will 
Vawter.     1912.    Bobbs. 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R450 

Out  to  old  Aunt  Mary's.     1904.    Bobbs. 

Poem,  beginning 

"Wasn't  it  pleasant,  O  brother  mine, 

In  those  old  days  of  the  lost  sunshine 

Of  youth — when  the  Saturday's  chores  were  through, 

And  the  'Sunday's  wood'   in  the  kitchen,  too, 

And  we  went  visiting,  'me  and  you,' 

Out  to  old  Aunt  Mary's? — " 
Pictures  by  H.  C.  Christy  and  text  decoration--  by   Margaret  Armstrong. 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R45r 

Rhymes  of  childhood.     1895.     Bobbs. 

"The  man  in  the  moon,"  "The  lugubrious  whingwhang."  and  other  rhymes  of  the 
"Raggedy  man." 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R45ril 

Riley  child-rhymes.     1905.     Bobbs. 

The  circus-day  parade. — The  runaway  boy. — The  nine  little  goblins. — Little  orphant 
Annie. — The  pet  coon. — Down  around  the  river. — The  funny  little  fellow. — The  bear 
story,  and  other  verses. 


2Q2  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R45ri 

Riley  farm-rhymes.     1905.     Bobbs. 

Rhymes  and  pictures  of  country  and  farm  life.  The  following  is  from  one  of  . 
the  poems: 

"When  the  frost  is  on  the  punkin  and  the  fodder's  in  the  shock, 
And  you  hear  the  kyouck  and  gobble  of  the  struttin'  turkey-cock, 
And  the  clackin'  of  the  guineys,  and  the  cluckin'  of  the  hens, 
And  the  rooster's  hallylooyer  as  he  tiptoes  on  the  fence; 
O,  it's  then's  the  times  a  feller  is  a-feelin'  at  his  best, 
With  the  risin'  sun  to  greet  him  from  a  night  of  peaceful  rest, 
As  he  leaves  the  house,  bare-headed,  and  goes  out  to  feed  the  stock, 
When  the  frost  is  on  the  punkin  and  the  fodder's  in  the  shock." 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb.  j  811  R45S 

Songs  o'  cheer.     1905.    Bobbs. 

The  first  bluebird. — The  funniest  thing  in  the  world. — Let  something  good  be  said. 
— Mister  Hop-toad. — There  is  ever  a  song  somewhere. — Whatever  the  weather  may  be. 
— There  was  a  cherry-tree — these  are  a  few  of  the  "songs  o'  cheer." 

Ritchie,  John  Woodside.  j  613  R49 

Primer  of  sanitation  and  physiology.  2v.  in  1.  1914.  World  Book 
Co.     (New  world  health  series,  v.1-2.) 

Pt.i  gives  the  more  important  facts  in  regard  to  germ  diseases  and  their  prevention, 
and  the  need  of  public  sanitation.  After  each  chapter  is  a  summary  of  points  to  be  re- 
membered. Pt.2  deals  with  the  structure  of  the  body,  the  use  of  its  various  parts,  and 
the  principles  of  modern  hygiene.     For  fifth,  sixth  and  seventh  grades. 

Roberts,  Charles  George  Douglas.  j  R536a 

Around  the  camp-fire.    Crowell. 

Six  friends  take  a  canoe  trip  in  New  Brunswick  and  as  they  gather  around  the 
evening  camp  fire  they  relate  thrilling  adventures  with  bears,  panthers,  wolves  and 
other  animals. 

Roberts,  Charles  George  Douglas.  j  R536C 

Cruise  of  the  yacht  "Dido;"  a  tale  of  the  tide  country.     Page. 
Adventures  of  two  boys  while  drifting  for  shad.     They  find  a  treasure  and  have 

experiences   with   a   would-be   murderer   and   with    sharks. 

Roberts,  Charles  George  Douglas.  j  R536h 

Haunter  of  the  pine  gloom.     Page.     (Roberts'  animal  stories.) 

Story  of  a  boy  and  a  lynx. 

Roberts,  Charles  George  Douglas.  j  R536he 

Heart  of  the  ancient  wood.     Page. 

With  this  romance  of  Miranda  and  "Young  Dave"  are  interwoven  the  life  histories 
of  the  wild  creatures  of  the  woods.  The  author's  appreciation  of  the  silent  and  mighty 
forests  is  impressed  on  the  reader  until  he  fancies  himself  in  the  heart  of  the  sheltering 
woods  and  under  their  influence. 

Roberts,  Charles  George  Douglas.  j  R536k 

King  of  the  Mamozekel.     Page.     (Roberts'  animal  stories.) 

Story  of  a  moose  "supreme  beyond  challenge  over  all  the  wild  lands  of  Tobique." 

Roberts,  Charles  George  Douglas.  j  R536I 

Lord  of  the  air.     Page.     (Roberts'  animal  stories.) 
Tells  of  the  capture  of  a  great  white-headed  eagle  and  how  he  regained  his  freedom. 

Roberts,  Charles  George  Douglas.  j  R536W 

Watchers  of  the  camp-fire.     Page.     (Roberts'  animal  stories.) 

Story  of  a  hungry  panther. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  293 

Roberts,  Theodore.  j  R538r 

The  red  feathers;  a  story  of  remarkable  adventures  when  the  world 
was  young.     Page. 

Quest  of  the  lost  magic  feathers  and  the  long  struggle  between  two  great  Indian 
magicians,  evil  Bright   Robe  and  Wise-as-a-she-wolf. 

Rocheleau,  William  Francis.  j  670  R56 

Great  American  industries;  manufactures.     1900.     Flanagan. 

Contents:  Motors. — Glass. — Leather. — Boots  and  shoes. — Dressed  meat. — Pins  and 
needles,   pencils  and   pens. — Paper. — Printing. — Newspapers. — Books. 

Rocheleau,  William  Francis.  j  553  Rs6g 

Great  American  industries;  minerals.     1902.     Flanagan. 

Contents:  Coal. — Copper  and  zinc. — Gold  and  silver. — Granite. — Iron. — Marble. — 
Natural  gas. — Petroleum. — Slate. 

Rocheleau,  William  Francis.  j  633  Rs6a 

Great  American  industries;  products  of  the  soil.     1906.     Flanagan. 
Contents:      Cereals. — Cotton. — Lumber. — Sugar. — Wheat. — Fruit. 

Rocheleau,  William  Francis.  j  380  Rs6a 

Great  American  industries;  transportation.     1914.     Flanagan. 

Contents:  Primitive  methods  of  travel  and  transportation. — Roads  and  carriages. — 
Waterways. — Inland  waterways. — Railways. — Electric  railways. — Mountain  railways. — 
Express. — Carrying  the  mails. — Navigating  the  air. 

Roe,  Alfred  Seelye.  j  810  R59 

American  authors  and  their  birthdays.     1887.     Houghton. 

Programs  and  suggestions  for  the  celebration  of  the  birthdays  of  Longfellow,  Whit- 
tier,  Holmes,  Lowell,  Hawthorne,  Emerson,  Bryant,  Thoreau,  Bayard  Taylor,  Washing- 
ton Irving  and  James  Fenimore  Cooper. 

Rogers,  Ethel.  j  369.3  R61 

Sebago-Wohelo  camp  fire  girls,  with  an  introduction  by  Mrs  L.  H. 

Gulick.     1915.     Good  Health  Pub.  Co. 

Record  of  a  summer  spent  at  Lake  Sebago  with  the  founders  of  the  Camp  Fire 

Girls.     Contains  some  of  the  camp  songs,  a  list  of  symbolic  names  and  many  pictures 

from  photographs  illustrating  the  camp  activities  and  ceremonials. 

Rogers,  Julia  Ellen.  j  630  R61 

Book  of  useful  plants.     1913.     Doubleday.     (Garden  library.) 

"Describes.  .  .the  habits  and  uses  of  the  most  important  plants  that  feed  and  clothe 
the  world."     Booklist,  1913. 
Illustrated. 

Rogers,  Julia  Ellen.  qj  594  R61 

Shell  book;  a  popular  guide  to  a  knowledge  of  the  families  of  living 
mollusks  and  an  aid  to  the  identification  of  shells,  native  and  foreign. 
1908.    Doubleday. 

Contents:  How  to  know  shells. — The  univalves  and  chitons. — The  tooth  shells. — 
The  bivalves. — The  cephalopods. 

Eight  colored  plates  and  96  in  black  and  white,  mostly   from  photographs. 

Rolfe,  William  James.  j  822.33  Bi 

Shakespeare,  the  boy.     1896.     Harper. 

Contents:  His  native  town  and  neighborhood. — His  home  life. — At  school. — Games 
and  sports. — Holidays,   festivals,   fairs,  etc. 


294  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Rolleston,  Thomas  William  Hazen.  j  398.2  R64 

The  high  deeds  of  Finn,  and  other  bardic  romances  of  ancient  Ire- 
land, with  an  introduction  by  S.  A.  Brooke.     [1910.]     Crowell. 

Here  may  one  read  how  Finn  came  to  the  captaincy  of  the  Fianna  of  Erin,  of  his 
chief  men  and  of  the  renowned  chase  of  the  Gilla  Dacar.  And  here  are  related  the 
strange  tale  of  Oisin,  the  son  of  Finn,  who  saw  the  wonders  of  the  Land  of  youth,  the 
story  of  Cormac  the  Chariot-child  and  his  adventures  in  fairyland,  and  other  tales  of 
Irish  heroes.     Sixteen  illustrations  in  color  by  Stephen  Reid. 

Rolt- Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6a 

The  Aztec-hunters.     Lothrop.     (Museum  books.) 

Begins  with  an  Indian  lad's  fight  with  an  ocelot  and  a  night  alone  among  the  ruins 
of  Copan,  the  ancient  Maya  city  of  the  demons.  Here,  later,  Qin  meets  with  the  mem- 
bers of  a  Harvard  archxological  expedition;  he  accompanies  them  on  their  explorations 
in  Central  America  and  Yucatan  and  helps  unravel  some  of  the  mysteries  of  the  old 
Maya  civilization. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6be 

The  boy  with  the  U.  S.  explorers.     Lothrop.     (U.  S.  service  series.) 

Story  of  a  boy's  efforts  to  save  his  father's  weed-infested  Kansas  farm.  He  is 
aided  by  a  government  expert,  learns  much  about  the  aims  and  methods  of  the  Bureau 
of  plant  industry  and  later  accompanies  an  expedition  to  China  in  search  of  botanical 
specimens. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6bf 

The  boy  with  the  U.  S.  fisheries.     Lothrop.     (U.  S.  service  series.) 

The  boy  has  varied  experiences  in  Bering  sea,  Bermuda,  Florida,  on  the  Mississippi 
and  at  the  Woods  Holl  laboratory.  He  learns  much  about  marine  life  and  the  work  of 
the  United  States  fisheries  bureau. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6b 

The  boy  with  the  U.  S.  foresters.  Lothrop.  (U.  S.  service  series.) 
Life  of  a  boy  in  the  forestry  service.    Through  many  adventures  the  story  leads  up 

to  a  forest  fire  and  an  exciting  race  for  life.     The  38  illustrations  are  from  photographs 

taken  by  the  United  States  forest  service. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6bi 

The  boy  with  the  U.  S.  Indians.     Lothrop.     (U.  S.  service  series.) 

Virgil  Keen  attends  an  Indian  council  in  Montana  with  his  friend  Lost  Wolf  and 
later  receives  an  appointment  from  the  United  States  bureau  of  ethnology  to  do  special 
work  in  color  photography  among  the  Indians  of  the  Southwest.     Interesting  illustrations. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6bl 

The  boy  with  the  U.  S.  life-savers.    Lothrop.     (U.  S.  service  series.) 

Beginning  as  a  volunteer  in  a  life-saving  station  on  the  Pacific  coast,  Eric  Swift 
takes  the  training  for  the  United  States  coast  guard  service,  becomes  a  lieutenant  and 
shares  in  many  heroic  rescues  on  the  Great  lakes  and  the  Atlantic  and  with  the  Bering 
sea  patrol.  Gives  a  good  idea  of  the  dangers  and  hardships  of  the  service,  of  the  bravery 
of  the  men,  and  of  the  work  of  the  Lighthouse  bureau.     Illustrations  from  photographs. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6bn 

The  boy  with  the  U.  S.  naturalists.    Lothrop.     (U.  S.  service  series.) 

A  boy  in  North  Carolina  becomes  a  bird  photographer,  builds  up  a  sanctuary  in 
the  forest  and  meets  with  adventure  on  a  scientific  expedition  to  the  rookeries  of  the 
Laysan  archipelago.  The  story  emphasizes  the  value  of  bird  life  and  the  need  of  pro- 
tection.    Good  illustrations. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R6s6bs 

The  boy  with  the  U.  S.  survey.     Lothrop.     (U.  S.  service  series.) 

A  boy's  experiences  with  different  parties  of  the  United  States  geological  survey 
working  in  the  swamps  of  Minnesota,  in  the  canons  and  deserts  of  the  Southwest,  and 
in   Alaskan   wilds.      Photographic   illustrations. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  295 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R656m 

The  monster-hunters.     Lothrop.     (Museum  books.) 

Story  of  a  boy  interested  in  paleontology  who  goes  with  a  scientific  expedition  to 
Egypt  in  search  of  fossil  animals  and  later  finds  a  rare  specimen  in  Wyoming.  The 
illustrations  are  chiefly  from  photographs  loaned  by  the  American  Museum  of  Natural 
History. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  92  E288r 

Thomas  Alva  Edison.  1915.  Macmillan.  (True  stories  of  great 
Americans.) 

"Reflects  the  vigor  and  energy  of  the  great  inventor  and  pictures  him  as  the  typical 
American,  giving  due  prominence  to  his  early  experiences  as  'candy-butcher'  and  nar- 
rating such  recent  events  as  his  discoveries  for  supplying  carbolic  acid,  brought  about 
by  the  present  war."     Booklist,  1916. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R656WO 

Wonder  of  war  in  the  air.     Lothrop. 

Adventures  of  an  American  boy  in  the  French  flying  corps.  Gives  information 
regarding  the  training  of  an  aviator,  various  types  of  aeroplanes  and  their  relative 
purpose  in  war.     Well  illustrated. 

Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis.  j  R656W 

Wonder  of  war  on  land.     Lothrop. 

Story  of  the  European  war,  dealing  chiefly  with  early  events,  but  giving  infor- 
mation also  about  trench  warfare,  use  of  poison  gas,  tanks,  etc.  Illustrations  from  war 
photographs  and  sketches. 

Roosevelt,  Theodore.  j  799  R68 

Good  hunting  in  pursuit  of  big  game  in  the  West.     1907.     Harper. 

Contents:     The  wapiti,   or   round-horned    elk. — A   cattle-killing   bear. — A    Christmas 
buck. — The   timber-wolf. — Shooting   the   prong-buck. — A   tame   white   goat. — Ranching. 
Appeared  in  "Harper's  round  table,"   v.17-18,    1896-97. 

Roosevelt,  Theodore.  qj  917.8  R68r 

Ranch  life  and  the  hunting-trail.     1904.    Century. 

The  cattle  country  of  which  the  author  writes  is  the  northern  half  of  the  great 
belt  which  extends  from  the  Canadian  border  to  Texas.  He  describes  the  cowboy's  life 
on  the  range,  round-ups,  the  game  of  the  high  peaks,  etc.  Illustrations  by  Frederic 
Remington. 

Roosevelt,  Theodore.  j  917.8  R68s 

Stories  of  the  great  West.     1909.     Century. 

Contents:  Stories  from  history:  Daniel  Boone  and  the  founding  of  Kentucky. — 
The  backwoodsmen  of  the  Alleghanies. — George  Rogers  Clark  and  the  conquest  of  the 
Northwest. — Lewis  and  Clark  and  the  exploration  of  the  far  West. — "Remember  the 
Alamo." — Stories  of  adventure:  The  cattle  country  of  the  far  West.— The  home  ranch. 
— The   round-up. — Red  and   white  on  the  border. — Sheriff's  work   on   a   ranch. 

"The  backwoodsmen  of  the  Alleghanies"  and  the  story  of  Lewis  and  Clark  are  from 
"The  winning  of  the  West."  The  other  stories  are  from  "Hero  tales"  and  "Ranch  life 
and  the  hunting  trail." 

Roosevelt,  Theodore.  j  92  R684r 

Theodore  Roosevelt's  letters  to  his  children;  ed.  by  J.  B.  Bishop. 
1919.     Scribner. 

Letters  written  during  a  period  of  more  than  20  years.  Before  the  children  were 
able  to  read  he  sent  them  "picture  letters"  with  drawings  of  his  own  in  illustration  of 
the  written  text.  He  was  always  their  playmate  and  boon  companion  and  he  writes 
about  the  school  athletics  and  the  books  in  which  they  were  interested,  the  household 
pets,  the  tricks  and  feats  of  the  saddle-horses.  Other  letters  describe  experiences  on 
hunting  expeditions  or  other  trips. 

Roosevelt,  Theodore.  j  799  R68w 

Wilderness  hunter;  an  account  of  the  big  game  of  the  United  States 
and  its  chase  with  horse,  hound  and  rifle.     1905.     Putnam. 


296  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Root,  Mrs  J.  H.    See  Root,  Mrs  Jean  Christie. 

Root,  Mrs  Jean  Christie.  j  92  Hi6ir 

Nathan  Hale.    1915.   Macmillan.    (True  stories  of  great  Americans.) 

Nathan  Hale  was  a  young  patriot  spy  sent  out  by  Washington  in  1776  to  gain  in- 
formation about  the  movements  of  the  British  in  New  York.  This  biography  includes 
original  letters;  also  poems  and  other  tributes. 

Rorer,  Mrs  Sarah  Tyson.  j  642  R69 

Home  candy  making.     1889.    Arnold. 

Contents:  Rules  for  candy  making. — Sugar  boiling. — The  tools  required. — Color- 
ings.— Flavorings. — Fondant. — Cream  confections. — Mixed  confections. — Fresh  fruits 
with  cream  jackets. — Nuts  and  fruits  glaces. — Nougat,  etc. — Caramels. — Sugar  drops. — 
Taffy  and  molasses  candies. — Additional  recipes. 

Rorer,  Mrs  Sarah  Tyson.  j  641  R6gho 

Hot  weather  dishes.     1888.    Arnold. 

Full  of  receipts  for  tempting  and  dainty  dishes,  such  as  different  kinds  of  salads, 
sandwiches,  desserts,  etc. 

Rose,  Augustus  Foster.  j  739  R71 

Copper  work;  an  illustrated  text  book  for  teachers  and  students  in 

the  manual  arts.     1908.    Atkinson. 

A  manual  of  copper  work  as  it  may  be  done  in  the  public  schools,  with  suggestions 

regarding  equipment  and  the  possibilities  of  such  a  course.     Many  illustrations  of  objects 

made  by  upper  grammar  and  high  school  pupils. 

Ross,  George  Alexander.  j  929.9  R73 

Old  Glory;  the  story  of  our  country's  flag.     1913.     Piatt. 
With  colored  pictures  of  the  pine  tree  flag  and  other  colonial   flags,   also  of  the 

Stars  and  Stripes  at  different  periods. 

Rossetti,  Christina  Georgina.  j  821  R743P 

Poems  for  children;  selected  and  arranged  by  Melvin  Hix.  1907. 
Educational  Pub.  Co.    (Golden  hour  series.) 

Good  collection,  including  most  of  the  nursery  rhymes  from  "Sing-song,"  as  well 
as  other  short  poems. 

Rossetti,  Christina  Georgina.  j  821  R743S 

Sing-song.     1893.     Macmillan. 

A  nursery  rhyme  book  with  many  pictures.     One  of  the  verses  is, 
"If  all  were  rain  and  never  sun, 
No  bow  could  span  the  hill ; 
If  all  were  sun  and  never  rain, 
There'd  be  no  rainbow  still." 

Roth,  Filibert.  j  634.9  ^75 

First  book  of  forestry.    1902.    Ginn. 

For  public  schools  and  general  reading. 

Aims  "to  present  in  simple,  non-technical  language  some  of  the  general  principles 
underlying  the  science,  and  to  state  the  methods  which  are  employed  and  the  objects 
to  be  attained  in  the  practice  of  forestry." 

Roulet,  Mrs  Mary  F.  (Nixon).    See  Nixon,  Mary  F. 

Routledge,  Robert.  j  609  R78d 

Discoveries  and  inventions  of  the  19th  century.  1905.  Routledge. 
Contents:  Steam  engines. — Iron. — Tools. — Railways. — Steam  navigation. — Ships  of 
war. — Fire-arms. — Torpedoes. — Ship  canals. — Iron  bridges. — Printing  machines. — Hy- 
draulic power. —Pneumatic  dispatch. — Rock  boring. — Light. — The  spectroscope. — Roent- 
gen's X  rays. — Sight. — Electricity. — The  electric  telegraph. — Lighthouses. — Photography. 
— Printing  processes. — Recording  instruments. — Aquaria. —  Gold  and  diamonds. —  New 
metals. — India-rubber  and  gutta-percha. — Anaesthetics. — Explosives. — Mineral  combus- 
tibles.— Coal-gas. — Coal-tar   colours. — The   greatest   discovery   of  the   age. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  297 

Royde-Smith,  N.  G.    See  Smith,  N.  G.  Royde-. 

Ruskin,  John.  j  R8ggk 

King  of  the  Golden  river.     Page. 

Fairy  tale  telling  what  happened  to  the  black  brothers  and  how  the  inheritance  lost 
by  cruelty  was  regained  by  love. 

Russell,  Ada.  j  92  A374r 

Alexander  the  Great.     1914.     Stokes.     (Heroes  of  all  time.) 
"Sources,"  p.  191-192. 

Account  of  the  life  of  Alexander,  the  king  of  Macedon,  who  subdued  Greece,  con- 
quered Syria  and  Phoenicia  and  overthrew  the  Persian  empire. 

Sabin,  Edwin  Legrand.  j  970.2  Sn 

Boj's'  book  of  Indian  warriors  and  heroic  Indian  women.  1918. 
Jacobs. 

Begins  with  the  story  of  the  "lone  trail"  of  Piskaret,  the  Adirondack  champion  of 
the  17th  century,  and  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Ghost  Dancers  and  the  "last  medi- 
cine" of  Sitting  Bull,  war  maker  of  the  Sioux.  Among  the  other  warriors  included  are 
King  Philip,  Pontiac,  Logan  the  great  Mingo,  Cornstalk,  Little  Turtle,  Tecumseh  and 
Black  Hawk.  There  is  also  a  chapter  on  the  "Bird-woman"  of  the  Lewis  and  Clark 
expedition.     The  book  is  written  from  the  point  of  view  of  the   Indian. 

Sabin,  Edwin  Legrand.  j  Si  160 

On  the  plains  with  Custer.     Lippincott. 

Ned  Fletcher  serves  as  a  boy  bugler  of  the  Seventh  Cavalry  under  Gen.  Custer 
during  the  Indian  campaigns,    1866-76. 

Sadlier,  Anna  Teresa.  j  Si26t 

The  talisman.     Benziger. 

Colonial  story  of  a  Catholic  boy  who  saves  the  little  town  of  Hartford  at  the  time  of 
an  Indian  raid  and  is  carried  into  captivity. 

Sage,  Agnes  Carr.  j  S1291I 

Little  colonial  dame;  a  story  of  old  Manhattan  island.    Stokes. 
Story  of  Dutch  New  York,  describing  an  Indian  raid  and  the  wanderings  and  rescue 

of  the  "little  colonial  dame." 

Sage,  Agnes  Carr.  j  Si29ili 

Little  daughter  of  the  Revolution.     Stokes. 

The  little  heroine  of  this  story  lived  in  the  stirring  times  of  the  Boston  tea-party 
and  the  Lexington  fight,  and  knew  the  beautiful  Dorothy  Quincy,  John  Hancock,  Paul 
Revere  and  other  Revolutionary  patriots. 

Sage,  Betty.  qj  811  S12 

Rhymes  of  real  children,  with  pictures  by  J.  W.  Smith.  1903.  Duf- 
field. 

"If  you  could  see  our  Mother  play 
On  the  floor, 
You'd  never  think  she  was  as  old 

As  twenty-four. 
On  Sunday,  when  she  goes  to  church, 

It  might  be, 
But  Tuesdays  she  is  just  the  age 
Of  Joe  and  me." 

Nurse's  afternoon  out. 

Sage,  Elizabeth,  &  Cooley,  A.  M.  .       j  372  Sn 

Occupations  for  little  fingers;  a  manual  for  grade  teachers,  mothers 

and  settlement  workers;  with  an  introductory  note  by  M.S.  Woolman. 

1905.     Scribner. 

Contents:     A   talk   about   the   m.-itcri,ils  used. — Some  uses   for  cord   and    string. — A 

few  suggestions   for  raffia. — Coarse  sewing. — Paper  cutting  and   folding. — Some   stories 


298  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Sage,  Elizabeth,  &  Cooley,  A.  M. — continued.  j  372  S12 

in  clay.— Weaving. — Bead-work. — How  to  furnish  a  doll's  house. — Simple  upholstery  for 
home  use. — Crocheting  and  knitting. — Some  special  work  for  boys. — How  to  use  nature's 
materials. 

St.  John,  Thomas  Matthew.  j  537-8i  S14I1 

How  two  boys  made  their  own  electrical  apparatus;  complete  direc- 
tions for  making  simple  apparatus  for  the  study  of  elementary  elec- 
tricity.    1900.    St.  John. 

Directions  for  making  from  inexpensive  materials  all  kinds  of  simple  apparatus, 
such  as  cells  and  batteries,  telegraph  keys  and  sounders,  electric  bells  and  buzzers. 

St.  John,  Thomas  Matthew.  j  537-8i  Si4r 

Real  electric  toy-making  for  boys,  containing  complete  directions 

for  making  and  using  a  large  number  of  simple  toys  that  are  operated 

by  electricity  and  magnetism.     1905.     St.  John. 

Describes  only  very  simple  apparatus  such  as  can  be  made  by  the  ordinary  boy  with 

a  few  common  tools  and  inexpensive  material. 

St.  John,  Thomas  Matthew.  j  537-8i  S14 

Study  of  elementary  electricity  and  magnetism  by  experiment.  1900. 
St.  John. 

Directions  for  200  experiments  which  can  be  performed  with  simple  home-made 
apparatus. 

St.  John,  Thomas  Matthew.  j  654.1  S14 

Things  a  boy  should  know  about  wireless,  containing  much  prac- 
tical and  some  theoretical  information  regarding  the  operation  and  ex- 
planation of  wireless  outfits,  with  numerous  wiring-diagrams.  Ed.2. 
1910.    St.  John. 

j  793.1  S14 
St.  Nicholas  book  of  plays  and  operettas,    v.i.     1900.     Century. 

Contents:  The  modern  and  medieval  ballad  of  Mary  Jane. — Acting  ballads. — The 
house  of  Santa  Claus. — Mother  Goose  operetta. — The  land  of  Nod. — The  giant  picture- 
books. — Shadow-pantomimes. — The  magic  sword. — The  false  Sir  Santa  Claus. — A  16th 
century  Christmas. — Christmas  eve  at  Mother  Hubbard's. — A  lawn  dance  for  little  peo- 
ple.— Dicky  Dot  and  Dotty  Dick. — An  old  English  folksong. — Haydn's  Children's  sym- 
phony.— A  topsy-turvy  concert. — The  changeling. 

St.  Nicholas  Christmas  book.     Century.  j  S147S 

Stories  and  verses. 

St.  Nicholas  songs.     1885.    Century.  qj  784.8  S14 

112  songs  by  32  composers.     Words  from  "St.  Nicholas  magazine." 

Saint  Pierre,  Jacques  Henri  Bernardin  de.  j  S149P 

Paul  and  Virginia.     Appleton. 
Memoir  of  Saint  Pierre,  p.5-19. 
Well  known  idyl  of  the  tropical  island  of  Mauritius. 

Saintine,  Joseph  Xavier  Boniface,  called.  j  S157P 

Picciola.     Houghton. 

How  a  young  nobleman  was  imprisoned  by  Napoleon  in  the  fortress  of  Fenestrella 
and  how  a  little^flower  saved  him. 

Samuel,  Elizabeth  Ida.  j  S193S 

Story  of  gold  and  silver.    Penn  Pub.  Co. 

The  Stanton  children  learn  about  the  discovery  of  gold  in  California,  visit  a  mine 
and  an  ore  mill  in  the  West  and  see  the  Philadelphia  mint  and  the  Treasury  in  Wash- 
•    ington. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  299 

Sanford,  Frank  Goodwin.  j  707.2  S22 

Art  crafts  for  beginners.     1909.     Century. 

Contents:    Design. — Thin  wood-working. — Pyrography. — Sheet-metal  work. — Leather- 
work. — Bookbinding. — Simple    pottery. — Basketry. — Bead-work. 
Fully  illustrated. 

Santos-Dumont,  Alberto.  j  533.6  S23 

My  air-ships.     1904.     Century. 

The  author  tells  about  the  real  and  the  imaginary  dangers  of  ballooning,  about  his 
own  experiences  in  building  and  operating  air-ships,  how  he  won  the  Deutsch  prize,  etc. 
Well  illustrated. 

Saporiti,  Rachele.    See  Fulvia,  pseud. 

Sargent,  Dudley  Allen.  j  613  S24 

Health,  strength  and  power.     1904.     Dodge. 

Gives  a  variety  of  free  developing  exercises  that  may  be  taken  without  apparatus;, 
also  hints  and  suggestions  in  regard  to  diet,  bathing,  sleep,  clothing,  etc.  Author  is 
(191 1 )    director   of  the   Hemenway  gymnasium,   Harvard   University. 

Sargent,  Frederick  Leroy.  j  633.13  S24 

Corn  plants;  their  uses  and  ways  of  life.     1899.     Houghton. 

Account  of  the  six  important  grain  plants  of  the  world — wheat,  oats,  rye,  barley, 
rice  and  maize.  Explains  what  corn  plants  are,  indicates  their  importance  to  mankind, 
and  narrates  the  myths  and  religious  customs  which  have  grown  up  about  them. 

Saunders,  Marshall.  j  8257b 

Beautiful  Joe;  autobiography  of  a  dog.    Amer.  Baptist  Pub.  Soc. 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  808.8  S3ia 

Arbor   day;   its   history,   observance,   spirit   and   significance,   with 

practical   selections   on   tree-planting  and   conservation   and   a    nature 

anthology.     1913.     Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  394  S31C 

Christmas;  its  origin,  celebration  and  significance,  as  related  in 
prose  and  verse.     1907.    Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 

Collection  of  poems,  carols,  essays,  stories  and  plays  relating  to  Christmas.  The 
introduction  tells  about  Christmas  customs  in  different  lands. 

Partial  contents:  The  shepherds  in  Judea. — -The  three  kings. — Christmas  eve  at  Mr 
Wardle's. — The  waits. — The  knighting  of  the  sirloin. — Under  the  holly-bough. — The  festi- 
val of  St.  Nicholas. — Ballade  of  Christmas  ghosts. — The  fir  tree. — The  golden  cobwebs. 
— Is  there  a  Santa  Claus? — The  glorious  song  of  old. 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  808.8  S3if 

Flag  day;  its  history,  origin  and  celebration  as  related  in  song  and 
story.     1912.     Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  808.8  S31 

Independence  day;  its  celebration,  spirit  and  significance  as  related 
in  prose  and  verse.     1912.     Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  92  L715S 

Lincoln's  birthday;  a  comprehensive  view  of  Lincoln  as  given  in  the 
most  noteworthy  essays,  orations  and  poems,  in  fiction  and  in  Lincoln's 
own  writings.     1909.     Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 
Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  808.8  S3im 

Memorial  day  (Decoration  day);  its  celebration,  spirit  and  signifi- 
cance as  related  in  prose  and  verse,  with  a  non-sectional  anthology  of 
the  Civil  war.     1914.     Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 


3oo  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed. 

Our  flag  in  verse  and  prose.    See  his  Flag  day. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  394  S31 

Thanksgiving;  its  origin,  celebration  and  significance  as  related  in 
prose  and  verse.     1907.     Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 

Contains  poems,  essays,  plays  and  stories.  Among  them,  The  first  Thanksgiving 
day. — Two  notable  Thanksgivings.— Ballad  of  the  Thanksgiving  pilgrim.— Jericho  Bob. 
— The  pumpkin. —  Ann  Mary. —  The  Thanksgiving  guest. —  Indian  summer.—  Granny's 
story. — In  honor  of  Thanksgiving. 

Schauffler,  Robert  Haven,  ed.  j  92  W272SC 

Washington's  birthday;  its  history,  observance,  spirit  and  signifi- 
cance as  related  in  prose  and  verse,  with  a  selection  from  Washington's 
speeches  and  writings.     1910.     Moffat.     (Our  American  holidays.) 

Contents:  The  day. —  Early  years. —  The  general. —  The  president.—  Last  days. — 
Tributes. — Washington's  place  in  history. — The  whole  man. — Anecdotes  and  stories. — 
Selections    from    Washington's   speeches   and    writings. — Exercises. 

Schmidt,  Ferdinand.  j  398.27  S35 

Gudrun;  tr.  from  the  German  by  G.  P.  Upton.  1906.  McClurg. 
(Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

Story  of  the  capture  and  rescue  of  the  noble  maiden  Gudrun.  Retold  from  an  old 
German  romance,  probably  written  in  the   13th  century. 

Schmidt,  Ferdinand.  j  92  T275S 

William  Tell;  tr.  from  the  German  by  G.  P.  Upton.  1912.  McClurg. 
(Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

The  opening  chapters  describe  the  home  life  of  Tell  and  the  sports  of  the  people  at 
the  spring  shooting  festival.  The  following  chapters  tell  of  the  first  blow  struck  for 
freedom,  the  midnight  meeting  of  the  patriots  on  the  Rutli  meadow,  the  famous  incident 
of  the  shooting  of  the  apple,  the  death  of  Gessler  and  the  uprising  and  final  victory  of 
the  Confederates. 

Schrader,  Ferdinand.  j  92  F895S 

Frederick  the  Great  and  the  Seven  years'  war;  tr.  from  the  German 
by  G.  P.  Upton.     1905.     McClurg.     (Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

"Deals  only  with  seven  years  in  the  life  of  Frederick  the  Great,  but  they  were  seven 
of  the  most  memorable  years  in  the  history  of  Austria  and  Prussia — the  period  of  the 
Seven  Years'  War,  which  confirmed  to  Frederick  the  possession  of  Silesia,  and  elevated 
Prussia  to  the  first  rank  among  European  states."     Preface. 

Schultz,  James  Willard.  j  97<>i  S38ap 

Apauk,  caller  of  buffalo.     1916.    Houghton. 

Story  of  a  young  Blackfoot  Indian  who  learns  to  decoy  the  buffalo  and  becomes  the 
"Bringer  of  plenty"  to  his  people. 

Schultz,  James  Willard.  j  S3872I 

Lone  Bull's  mistake;  a  Lodge  Pole  chief  story.     Houghton. 
Appeared  in  the  "Youth's  companion,"  v.01-92,  Dec.  13,  1917-Feb.  14,   1918. 
Account  of  the  wanderings   and   misfortunes  of  a   Blackfoot   Indian  who   rebels   at 

the  tribal  hunting  laws  and  with  his  family  leaves  the  camp  of  his  people. 

Schultz,  James  Willard.  j  97°i  S380 

On  the  warpath,  with  illustrations  by  George  Varian.  1914.  Hough- 
ton. 

Pitamakan,  the  Indian  hero  of  "The  quest  of  the  fish-dog  skin,"  outwits  the  As- 
siniboines  and  the  Crows,  enemies  of  the  Blackfeet,  and  becomes  the  boy  chief  of  the 
Small  Robe  band.     Includes  an  account  of  the  Medicine  Lodge  ceremony. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  301 

Schultz,  James  Willard.  j  970.1  S38q 

The  quest  of  the  fish-dog  skin.     1913.     Houghton. 

Follows  "With  the  Indians  in  the  Rockies." 

In  their  perilous  quest,  Pitamakan,  the  Blackfoot,  and  Tom  Fox,  his  white  friend, 
travel  through  the  wild,  unsettled  West  from  the  Missouri  to  the  mouth  of  the  Columbia 
river  and  meet  with  various  Indian  tribes,   friendly  or  hostile. 

Schultz,  James  Willard.  j  S3872r 

Running  Eagle,  the  warrior  girl.     Houghton. 

A  Blackfoot  Indian  relates  the  story  of  his  playmate,  she  who  became  the  virgin 
woman  warrior  of  her  tribe  and  for  her  bravery  was  given  a  man's  name. 

Schultz,  James  Willard.  j  970.1  S38S 

Sinopah,  the  Indian  boy,  with  illustrations  by  E.  B.  Smith.  1913. 
Houghton. 

True  story  of  a  Blackfoot  Indian  boy,  son  of  a  chief.  "With  the  Indians  in  the 
Rockies"  relates  later  adventures  of  the  boy,  who  was  afterward  known  by  the  name  of 
Pitamakan. 

Schultz,  James  Willard.  j  970.1  S38 

With  the  Indians  in  the  Rockies.     1912.     Houghton. 
While  on  a  trapping  expedition  with  a  party  of  Blackfoot  Indians,  Thomas   Fox, 

a  boy  of  15,  and  his  Indian  friend  Pitamakan  are  cut  off  by  snow  and  obliged  to  spend 

the  winter  alone  in  the  Rockies. 

Schumann,  Robert.  qj  786.4  S39 

Schumann  album  of  children's  pieces  for  piano,  with  illustrations 
by  H.  W.  Le  Mair.     [1918.]     Augener. 

Pictures  are  in  color  and  are  intended  to  suggest  the  rhythmical  movements  which 
may  accompany  the  music. 

Schupp,  Ottokar.  j  92  W7412S 

William  of  Orange;  tr.  from  the  German  by  G.  P.  Upton.  1912. 
McClurg.     (Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

In  the  1 6th  century,  when  the  Netherlanders  were  engaged  in  their  heroic  fight  with 
Spain  for  political  and  religious  liberty,  William  of  Orange,  soldier,  statesman  and 
founder  of  the  Dutch  republic,  was  their  leader.  The  story  of  his  life  includes  an  ac- 
count of  the  siege  of  Haarlem  and  the  relief  of  Leyden,  as  well  as  other  events  of  the 
war. 

Schwartz,  Julia  Augusta.  j  910  S39 

Five  little  strangers  and  how  they  came  to  live  in  America.  1904. 
Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  The  little  red  child.— The  little  white  child. — The  little  black  child.— The 
little  yellow  child. — The  little  brown  child. 

Schwartz,  Julia  Augusta.  j  595-7  S39 

Grasshopper  Green's  garden;  the  story  of  some  wonderful  little 
lives;  a  nature  reader  for  elementary  schools.     1910.     Little. 

Contents:  The  lucky  little  grasshopper. — The  adventures  of  an  earthworm. — Mis- 
chievous  Madam  Mosquito. — The  most  beautiful  one  in  the  garden. — The  untidy  fly. — 
The  spider  who  would  a-hunting  go. — This  is  the  house  the  ant  built. — How  doth  the 
little  busy  bee. 

Schwatka,  Frederick.  j  9!9-8  S41 

Children  of  the  cold.     1895.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Life  of  the  Eskimo  boys  and  girls.  Here  one  may  learn  how  their  houses  are  built. 
what  are  their  games  and  playthings,  how  tliey  make  their  sleds  and  about  their  seal- 
hunting  and  fishing.  The  author  was  a  famous  Arctic  explorer  and  an  authority  on 
the  subject. 


302  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Schwatka,  Frederick.  j  917.2  S41 

In  the  land  of  cave  and  cliff  dwellers.     1899.     Educational  Pub.  Co. 

Account  of  the  adventures  and  researches  of  two  expeditions  sent  into  northern 
Mexico  in  1889  and  1890,  the  patron  of  the  first  being  "America,"  and  of  the  other,  the 
"Herald,"  both  Chicago  newspapers.  The  story  is  told  as  if  it  were  a  continuous  under- 
taking and  contains  much  information  regarding  the  cave  and  cliff  dwellers  still  to  be 
found  in  Mexico. 

Scollard,  Clinton,  ed.  j  811.08  S42 

Ballads  of  American  bravery,  with  notes.     1900.     Silver. 

Poems  commemorating  valorous  deeds  and  brave  men  in  American  history,  such  as 
The  men  of  the  Alamo. — Kearny  at  Seven  Pines. — Keenan's  charge. — John  Burns  of 
Gettysburg. — Sheridan's  ride. — A   ballad  of  Manila  bay. — Down  the  Little  Big  Horn. 

Scollard,  Clinton.  j  811  S42 

Boy's  book  of  rhyme.     1896.     Browning. 

Partial  contents:  The  pop-corn  man. — The  young  Crusoe. — The  drummer. — The 
castle-boy. — The  snow-fort. — The  little  Egyptian  boy. — Madam  Robin's  afternoon  tea. — 
Where  are  the  fairies  gone? — By  the  Yule-log. — Lady  Hollyhock. 

Scott,  Mrs  Lucy  Jameson.  j  915  S42 

Twelve  little  pilgrims  who  stayed  at  home.     1903.     Revell. 

Story  of  a  mission  band  and  of  their  "rocking-chair"  trips  to  the  "hermit  nation," 
to  Japan,  China  and  India. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  8431a 

The  abbot.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Romantic  story  of  Mary,  queen  of  Scots,  from  her  imprisonment  in  Lochleven  castle 
to  her  flight  into  England.     Sequel  to  "The  monastery." 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43iann 

Anne  of  Geierstein.    Dryburgh  ed.    Black. 

Adventures  which  befell  an  exiled  Lancastrian  and  his  son  on  a  secret  mission  to 
Charles  the  Bold  of  Burgundy.  Among  the  thrilling  episodes  are  the  trial  by  the  mys- 
terious and  secret  tribunal  of  the  Vehmgerichte,  the  storming  of  La  Ferette  and  the 
battle  of  Nancy. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ian 

The  antiquary.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Relates  to  the  finding  of  a  secret  treasure  and  the  unraveling  of  a  mystery.  Scene 
is  a  little  Scottish   fishing  village  at  the  close  of  the   18th  century. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ibe 

The  betrothed.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Story  of  the  12th  century  dealing  with  the  disorders  in  England  resulting  from 
the  long  absence  of  the  crusaders  in  Palestine  and  particularly  with  divers  interesting 
events  pertaining  to  the  castle  of  the  Crags  on  the  Welsh  border  and  its  fair  castellane. 

Contains  also  "The  Highland  widow." 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ibri2 

Bride  of  Lammermoor.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

The  tragic  story  of  Lucy  Ashton. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43if 

Fair  maid  of  Perth;  or,  St.  Valentine's  day.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Scotland  in  the  reign  of  Robert  III.     The  tale  is  full  of  action,  fierce  dissensions 

of  nobles,  and  feuds  of  unruly  clans.     It  includes  the  celebrated  conflict  of  the  North 

Inch  of  Perth,  and  the  story  of  the  misguided  duke  of  Rothesay  and  his  unhappy  fate. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43110 

Fortunes  of  Nigel.    Dryburgh  ed.    Black. 

Life  in  London  during  the  early  years  of  James  I.  Nigel  is  a  young  Scotch  noble- 
man who  has  a  most  adventurous  career. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  303 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ig 

Guy  Mannering.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

How  the  heir  of  Ellangowan,  kidnapped  by  smugglers  when  a  child,  came  again 
into  his  own.  Meg  Merrilies,  the  gipsy,  Dandie  Dinmont,  the  Scottish  yeoman, 
Dominie  Sampson,  and  Dirk  Hatteraick,  the  smuggler,  are  some  of  the  principal 
characters. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ii2 

Ivanhoe.     Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

The  tournament  at  Ashby,  the  siege  of  Torquilstone,  the  trial  of  Rebecca  the  Jewess 
— these  are  a  few  incidents  in  this  story 

"of  the  days  of  old 
When  knights  were  bold." 

Robin  Hood  under  the  name  of  Locksley  the  yeoman  appears  as  one  of  the  char- 
acters. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  E.  B.  Smith.     Houghton.  .  .  .j  S43ii3 
The  same,  with  a  preface  by  Mrs  Maxwell  Scott;  illustrated  with  re- 
productions in  colour  of  original  drawings  by  Maurice  Greiffenhagen. 
Jack j  S43ii5 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ik 

Kenilworth.    Luxembourg  ed.     Crowell. 

Tale  of  the  days  of  good  Queen  Bess.  It  tells  of  "my  lord  of  Leicester's"  secret 
marriage  and  of  the  sad  fate  of  the  unfortunate  Amy  Robsart.  Shakespeare,  Sir  Walter 
Raleigh  and  other  historic  characters  are  introduced. 

The  same,  with  a  preface  by  Mrs  Maxwell  Scott;  illustrated  with 
reproductions  in  colour  of  original  drawings  by  H.  J.  Ford.  Lippin- 
cott j    S43ik4 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  821  S43I4 

Lady  of  the  lake,  Harold  the  dauntless,  and  The  field  of  Waterloo. 

1913.     Houghton.     (Works,  v.48.) 

"The  lady  of  the  lake"  is  a  romance  of  Scotland  in  verse.  The  scene  is  laid 
chiefly  in  the  vicinity  of  Loch  Katrine. 

"That  whistle  garrisoned  the  glen 
At  once  with  full  five  hundred  men, 
As  if  the  yawning  hill  to  heaven 
A  subterranean  host  had  given. 

*  *  *  • 

The  Mountaineer  cast  glance  of  pride 
Along  Benledi's  living  side, 
Then   fixed  his  eye  and  sable  brow 
Full   on   Fitz-James:      'How   say'st   thou   now? 
These  are   Clan-Alpine's   warriors   true ; 
And,   Saxon, — I  am   Roderick   Dhu  I'  " 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  821  S43la4 

Lay  of  the  last  minstrel,  and  Early  ballads  and  lyrics.  1913.  Hough- 
ton.    (Works,  v.46.) 

"Biographical   sketch,"  pref.   p. 11-34. 

"The  lay  of  the  last  minstrel"  is  a  poem  of  border  chivalry,  of  knight  and  minstiel, 
maiden  and  magician. 

"Some  heard  a  voice  in   Branksome  Hall, 
Some  saw  a  sight,  not  seen  by  all; 
That  dreadful  voice  was  heard  by  some. 
Cry,  with  loud  summons,  'GYLIilN,  COME!'  " 


304  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  821  843012 

Marmion,   and   The    vision    of    Don    Roderick.      1913.      Houghton. 

(Works,  v.47.) 

"And  darest  thou  then 
To  beard  the  lion  in  his  den, 
The  Douglas  in  his  hall? 
And  hopest  thou  hence  unscathed  to  go? — 
No,  by  Saint  Bride  of  Bothwell,  no! 
Up,    drawbridge,    grooms ! — what    warder,    ho ! 
Let  the  portcullis  fall." 

From  "Marmion,"  a  stirring  poem  of  the  time  of  James  IV  of  Scotland,  which 
Andrew  Lang  says  contains  "the  best  battle-piece  in  all  the  poetry  of  all  time." 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S4311T1 

The  monastery.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Romance  of  the  border  country  in  the  unsettled  period  that  followed  the  Scottish 
defeat  at  Pinkie.  The  monastery  of  Kennaquhair  is  Melrose  and  the  story  deals  with 
the  fallen  fortunes  of  the  house  of  Avenel,  with  whose  fate  is  connected  the  mystic 
"White  Lady"  of  the  tale.     The  sequel  to  this  is  "The  abbot." 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S4310 

Old  Mortality.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Story  of  the  days  of  the  Scotch  covenanters.  The  battle  of  Bothwell  bridge  is  one 
of  the  episodes. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S431P 

Peveril  of  the  Peak.    Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Stirring  adventures  of  young  Julian  Peveril,  enmeshed  in  the  toils  of  the  bogus 
papist  plot  contrived  by  Titus  Oates. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ipi 

The  pirate.    Dryburgh  ed.    Black. 

Account  of  certain  remarkable  incidents  which  took  place  in  the  wild  islands  ol 
the  Orkneys  and  Zetland. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  821  S43 

Poetical  works;  ed.  by  Andrew  Lang.    2v.     1895.    Black. 

v.i.  Selected  lyrics  and  ballads. — Lay  of  the  last  minstrel. — Marmion. — Bridal  of 
Triermain. 

v.2.     Lady  of  the  lake. — Rokeby. — Lord  of  the  isles. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43iq 

Quentin  Durward.    Dryburgh  ed.    Black. 

The  scene  is  laid  in  France  in  the  15th  century  at  the  beginning  of  the  decline  of 
the  feudal  system.  The  hero,  a  young  Scotchman,  comes  in  contact  with  the  restless 
Louis  XI,  his  gipsy,  beggar  and  pilgrim  spies  and  with  Charles  the  Bold  of  Burgundy. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43ir 

Redgauntlet.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

The  abduction  of  one  Darsie  Latimer  and  the  pursuit  by  his  faithful  friend,  Alan 
Fairford;  a  tale  of  a  Jacobite  conspiracy. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43iro3 

Rob  Roy.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Rob  Roy  was  a  famous  Highland  outlaw  and  freebooter.  He  belonged  to  the  fierce 
and  much  persecuted  clan  of  Macgregor  and  adopted  the  name  of  Campbell  when  the 
acts  of  Parliament  abolished  his  own  name.  The  story  tells  of  the  active  part  he  took  in 
the  Pretender's  rebellion  of  1715. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  305 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  941  S43 

Tales  of  a  grandfather;  the  history  of  Scotland  from  the  earliest 
period  to  the  close  of  the  rebellion,  1745-46,  with  introduction  by  F.  W. 
Farrar.     191 1.    Black. 

Here  are  legendary  stories  of  early  Scotland  and  vivid  accounts  of  border  raids 
and  wild  wars,  of  battle  and  siege.  As  the  book  advances,  the  reader  finds  himself 
"moving  amid  scenes  of  an  interest  as  thrilling  as  any  in  romance,  while  at  the  same 
time  he  is  face  to  face  with  actual  events  and  with  the  famous  personages  whose  deeds 
form  the  annals  of 

'An   old   and   haughty   nation   proud   in   arms.'  " 

This  edition  has  20  illustrations  in  color. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S43H4 

The  talisman;  a  tale  of  the  crusaders,  with  a  preface  by  Mrs  Max- 
well Scott;  illustrated  with  reproductions  in  colour  of  original  draw- 
ings by  S.  H.  Vedder.    Lippincott. 

The  scene  is  in  Palestine  with  Richard  Cceur  de  Lion  and  his  allies  of  the  third 
crusade.  From  the  contest  on  the  desert  between  the  Saracen  cavalier  and  the  Knight 
of  the  Sleeping  Leopard  to  the  final  "battle  of  the  standard"  it  is  full  of  interest. 

The  same  [and  other  stories].    Dryburgh  ed.     Black j  S43it2 

Other  stories:  Chronicles  of  the  Canongate;  The  two  drovers. — My  Aunt  Mar- 
garet's mirror. — The  tapestried  chamber. — Death  of  the  laird's   Jock. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S431W3 

Waverley.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Story  of  the  rising  of  the  clans  for  Prince  Charlie  in  1745,  their  victories,  their 
defeat  at  Culloden  and  the  strange  concealments  and  marvelous  escapes  of  some  of  the 

survivors. 

Scott,  Sir  Walter.  j  S431WO 

Woodstock.     Dryburgh  ed.     Black. 

Concerning  some  strange  events  and  ghostly  happenings  which  took  place  in  the 
royal  domain  of  Woodstock  in  the  year  1651.  Gives  the  adventures  of  Charles  II  when 
a  fugitive  after  the  battle  of  Worcester  and  Oliver  Cromwell  also  appears  as  one  of  the 
characters. 

Scripture,  Mrs  May  (Kirk).  j  372.4  S43 

Baldwin  primer.     1899.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  91492  S43 

Bodley  grandchildren  and  their  journey  in  Holland.  1882.  Hough- 
ton. 

The  Bodley  family  travel  to  see  the  home  of  their  Dutch  ancestors,  also  the  tem- 
porary home  of  their  English  Pilgrim  Fathers. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha,  ed.  j  398  S43f2 

Book  of  fables  and  folk  stories.     1906.     Houghton. 

Partial  contents:  The  elves  and  the  shoemaker. — The  dog  in  the  manger. — The 
Arab  and  his  camel. — Dick  Whittington  and  his  cat. — Beauty  and  the  beast. — The  travel- 
ing musicians. — The  white  cat. — The  ant  and  the  grasshopper. — The  wolf  in  sheep's 
clothing. 

New  edition  of  "Fables  and  folk  stories."     Contains  56  Btoriea. 
The  same  [illustrated  by  Maurice  Day].    1919.    Houghton  .   j  398  S43f3 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha,  cotnp.  j  398.91  A25S 

Book  of  fables,  chiefly  from  ^Esop;  chosen  and  phrased  by  II.  1. 

Scudder.     1882.     Houghton. 

Some  of  the  fables  are.  The  boy  and  the  wolf. — The  lion   and   the   mouse.  — Belling 

the  cat. — The  dog  in  the  manger. — The  wind  and   the   sun. — The  goose   that   laid   golden 

eggs. — The  Arab  and  his  camel. — The  wolf  in  sheep's  clothing. 


306'  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha,  ed.  j  398  S43 

Book  of  folk  stories.     1897.     Houghton. 

Contents:  The  story  of  Chicken  Licken. — The  old  woman  and  her  pig. — The  three 
bears. — The  elves  and  the  shoemaker. — Hans  in  luck. — Little  One  Eye,  Little  Two  Eyes 
and  Little  Three  Eyes. — Puss  in  boots. — Cinderella. — The  sleeping  beauty  in  the  wood. — 
Beauty  and  the  beast. — Jack  and  the  bean  stalk.— Dick  Whittington  and  his  cat. — Tom 
Thumb.— The  white  cat.— Little  Red  Riding  Hood. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  398.2  S43 

Book  of  legends.     1899.    Houghton. 

Contents:  The  proud  king. — St.  George  and  the  dragon. — The  bell  of  justice. — How 
the  lame  man  and  the  blind  man  helped  each  other. — King  Cophetua  and  the  beggar 
maid. — William  Tell. — The  dog  Gellert. — The  Wandering  Jew. — The  legend  of  St. 
Christopher. — How  the  princess  was  beaten  in  a  race. — Abraham  and  the  old  man. — The 
image  and  the  treasure. — The  Flying  Dutchman. — The  seven  sleepers  of  Ephesus. — The 
little  thief. — The  fair   Melusina. — The  brazen  head. — The  monk  and  the  bird. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  974.46  S43 

Boston  town.     1881.     Houghton. 

Events  in  the  early  annals  of  the  city  as  related  by  a  grandfather  who  visits  his- 
toric buildings  and  places  with  the  boys.     Many  pictures. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha,  ed.  qj  808.8  S43 

Children's  book.     1881.    Houghton. 

Treasure-house  of  delightful  stories  and  poems.  There  are  fables,  ballads,  old  fairy 
tales,  stories  from  Hans  Christian  Andersen,  and  from  the  Arabian  nights'  entertain- 
ments; there  are  the  marvelous  adventures  of  Baron  Munchausen,  Gulliver's  account  of 
his  voyage  to  Lilliput,  the  renowned  history  of  Goody  Two  Shoes,  tales  of  ancient 
Greece,  and  other  famous  stories. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  914.2  S43 

English  Bodley  family.     1896.     Houghton. 

Tells  how  the  Bodleys  went  to  Oxford  and  to  Stratford-on-Avon,  how  they  made 
a  pilgrimage  to  Scrooby  and  Austerfeld,  "the  cradle  of  the  Pilgrims,"  and  what  they 
saw  in  "London  town." 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha,  ed.  j  398  S43f 

Fables  and   folk  stories.     1890.     Houghton.      (Riverside   literature 

series.) 

The  same.    1917.    Houghton.     (Riverside  holiday  series.) .  .j  398  S43f 

Contains  80  stories. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  92  W272S 

George  Washington;  an  historical  biography.     1889.     Houghton. 
Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"   v.13,  Jan-Oct.    1886. 
One  of  the  best  of  lives  of  Washington  for  young  readers,  and  among  the  best  of 

one  volume  lives  of  Washington  for  readers  of  any  age. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  914  S43 

Mr  Bodley  abroad.     1880.    Houghton. 

Contains  letters  and  stories  about  Sir  Walter  Scott  and  his  home  at  Abbotsford, 
the  old  towns  of  Bruges  and  Ghent,  the  Strasburg  cathedral  and  its  famous  clock  and 
the  life  and  death  of  Joan  of  Arc. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  S436S 

Seven  little  people  and  their  friends.    Houghton. 

Contents:  The  three  wishes. — A  Christmas  stocking  with  a  hole  in  it. — The  little 
castaways. — A  faery  surprise  party. — The  rock  elephant. — The  old  brown  coat. — New 
Year's  day  in  the  garden. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  307 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha,  comp.  j  821.08  S43 

Verse  and  prose  for  beginners  in  reading,  selected  from  English 
and  American  literature.     1893.    Houghton. 

Nursery  rhymes,  and  simple  poems  selected  from  standard  authors.  The  prose  is 
confined  to  groups  of  proverbs  and  familiar  sayings. 

Scudder,  Horace  Elisha.  j  914.8  S43 

Viking  Bodleys;  an  excursion  into  Norway  and  Denmark.  1896. 
Houghton. 

Sea  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j  S438 

Contents:  To  repel  boarders,  by  Jack  London. — What  is  told  by  the  bell,  by  Lieut. 
J.  M.  Ellicott. — The  bell-buoy's  story,  by  John  Weatherby. — A  song  of  the  sea,  by  Eric 
Parker. — My  narrowest  escape,  by  George  Kennan. — The  cautious  captain,  by  R.  F. 
Bunner. — Steering  without  a  compass,  by  Gustav  Kobbe. — A  tale  of  piracy,  by  Malcolm 
Douglas. — The  lights  that  guide  in  the  night,  by  Lieut.  J.  M.  Ellicott. — When  my  ship 
comes  in,  by  M.  J.  Farrah. — A  change  of  craft,  by  R.  W.  Child. — Tom  Trawley's  start 
in  life,  by  W.  J.  Henderson. — A  citizen  of  the  deep,  by  L.  R.  McCabe. — Great  ocean 
waves,  by  W.  J.  Henderson. — Three  ships,  by  H.  F.  Blodgett. — The  voyage  of  the 
"Oregon,"  by  Tudor  Jenks. 

Seaman,  Augusta  Huiell.  j  84382b 

The  boarded-up  house.     Century. 

Story  of  two  girls,  a  deserted  house  and  a  mystery. 

Seaman,  Augusta  Huiell.  j  S4382J 

Jacqueline  of  the  carrier-pigeons.     Sturgis. 

Story  of  the  siege  of  Leyden  at  the  time  of  the  war  with  Spain  for  Dutch  freedom 
and  independence.  Both  Gysbert,  the  young  hero,  who,  in  the  disguise  of  a  "Glipper," 
carried  messages  through  the  Spanish  army  to  William  of  Orange,  and  his  sister, 
"Jacqueline  of  the  carrier-pigeons,"  bravely  did  their  part  in  saving  Leyden  from  the 
Spanish  invaders. 

Seaton,  George  Ambrose.  j  684  S44 

Selected  shop  problems.  1910.  Manual  Arts  Press.  (Manual  train- 
ing reprints;  ser.  A,  no. 3.) 

Directions  for  making  a  taboret,  book  and  magazine  rack,  small  wall  cabinet,  library 
table,  desk,  etc.     Most  of  the  problems  give  working  dimensions.     Sixteen  plates. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442d 

Decatur  and  Somers.     Appleton.     (Young  heroes  of  our  navy.) 

Comradeship  of  two  young  naval  heroes  and  their  daring  exploits  during  the  Trip- 
olitan  war.  The  burning  of  the  Philadelphia,  the  explosion  of  the  Intrepid  and  the 
assaults  on  Tripoli  are  described. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442g 

The  great  scoop.    Page. 

Newspaper  story,  of  which  an  office  boy   is  the  hero. 
Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442I 

Little  Jarvis.    Appleton.     (Young  heroes  of  our  navy.) 

Adventures  of  a  boy  midshipman  in  the  sea-fight  between  the  United  States  ship 
Constellation  and  the  French  frigate  Vengeance  in   1800. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  8442m 

Midshipman  Paulding.    Appleton.     (Young  heroes  of  our  navy.) 

The  story  tells  of  the  midshipman's  exploits  in  the  region  of  the  Great  lakis  in 
the  War  of  1812,  and  of  the  battle  of  Lake  Champlain. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442P 

Paul  Jones.    Appleton.     (Young  heroes  of  our  navy.) 
Paul   Jones,  the  captain   who  sailed   around   the   British   Isles  and   bade   defiance   to 
the   entire   British    fleet,   is   perhaps   the   most    heroic    figure    in    tin-   naval    history    of   the 
Revolution   and   the   boys   welcome  this  thrilling   story  of   his  exploits. 


308  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442q 

Quarterdeck,  and  Fok'sle.    Wilde. 

Story  about  a  candidate  for  the  Annapolis  Naval  Academy,  and  another  about  Gen. 
Prescott's  capture  during  the  Revolution. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442S 

The  son  of  Columbus.    Harper. 

Story  of  Spain  in  the  time  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella.  Diego,  son  of  Columbus, 
who  becomes  a  royal  page  at  court,  and  his  friend,  Don  Felipe,  witness  the  surrender 
of  the  Moorish  king  of  Granada,  the  signing  of  the  final  pact  between  the  Spanish 
sovereigns  and  Columbus  and  the  sailing  of  the  great  admiral   from  Palos. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442t 

Through  thick  and  thin,  and  The  midshipmen's  mess.     Lothrop. 

Two  stories  of  American  heroism.  One  is  a  soldier  story  of  two  young  lieutenants 
who  risk  their  lives  to  rescue  a  wounded  officer.  The  other  tells  about  a  midshipman 
who  bore  silently  for  months  the  ostracism  of  his  companions  rather  than  be  a  tale 
bearer. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  923.5  S44 

Twelve  naval  captains.     1897.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Paul  Jones. — -Richard  Dale. — Thomas  Truxtun. — William  Bainbridge. — 
Edward  Preble. — Stephen  Decatur. — Richard  Somers. — Isaac  Hull. — Charles  Stewart. — 
Oliver  Hazard  Perry. — Thomas  MacDonough. — James  Lawrence. 

Seawell,  Molly  Elliot.  j  S442V 

Virginia  cavalier.    Harper. 

The  hero  is  George  Washington  and  the  story  tells  of  his  experiences  as  surveyor 
for  Lord  Fairfax,  of  his  hazardous  mission  to  the  French  forts,  the  battle  of  Fort 
Necessity  and  the  defeat  of  Gen.  Braddock. 

Seeley,  Sir  John  Robert.  -  j  92  N129S 

Short  history  of  Napoleon  the  First.     1897.     Little. 
"The  most  able  of  the  brief  accounts  of  Napoleon  from  a  hostile  point  of  view." 

Adams's  Manual  of  historical  literature. 

Seelye,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Eggleston),  &  Eggleston,  Edward,    j  970.3  S45 
Brant  and  Red  Jacket.     1879.     Dodd. 

Account  of  the  Iroquois  Indians  and  their  relations  with  the  French  and  English 
and  especially  of  the  parts  played  by  two  of  their  famous  chiefs  in  the  War  of  the  revo- 
lution and  the  War  of  1812. 

Seelye,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Eggleston),  &  Eggleston,  Edward.        j  972  S45 
Montezuma  and  the  conquest  of  Mexico.     1880.     Dodd. 
Account  of  the  last  of  the  Aztec  kings  and  the  daring  exploits  of  Cortes  and  his 

Spaniards. 

Seelye,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Eggleston),  &  Eggleston,  Edward,     j  975.5  S45 

Pocahontas.     1879.    Dodd. 

Not  only  the  romantic  life  of  the  Indian  maiden,  sometimes  known  as  the  lady 
Rebecca,  but  also  an  account  of  the  various  adventures  of  John  Smith  and  of  the  ex- 
plorations, trials  and  battles  of  the  early  settlers  at  Jamestown. 

Seelye,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Eggleston).  j  92  C727S 

Story  of  Columbus.     1893.     Appleton. 

"Columbus  alone  of  the  men  of  the  fifteenth  century  had  the  imagination  to  plan 
and  the  boldness  to  carry  out  a  voyage  in  search  of  land  to  the  westward."  This  book 
relates  the  story  of  his  voyages,  adventures  and  discoveries.     Many  pictures. 

Seelye,  Mrs  Elizabeth  (Eggleston).  j  92  W272se 

Story  of  Washington.     1893.    Appleton. 

Gives  many  personal  anecdotes. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  309 

Segovia,  Gertrudis.  j  S454S 

Spanish  fairy  book  (Cuentos  de  hadas) ;  tr.  by  E.  V.  Quinn.    Stokes. 

Contents:  The  blue  lake. — The  magic  gifts. — The  enchanted  forest. — The  tinkling 
laugh. — The  genie  of  the  mountains. — The  cave  of  emeralds. — The  fairy  and  the  prince. 
— The  merchant's  fortune. 

Segur,  Sophie  (Rostopchine),  comtesse  de.  j  S456f 

Fairy  tales  from  the  French.     Winston. 

Contents:  Blondine,  Bonne-Biche  and  Beau-Minon. — Good  little  Henry. — Princess 
Rosette. — The  little  gray  mouse. — Ourson. 

Segur,  Sophie  (Rostopchine),  comtesse  de.  j  843  S45me 

Memoires  d'un  ane. 

An  abridged  edition  is  published  in  English  under  the  title  "Story  of  a  donkey." 

Segur,  Sophie  (Rostopchine),  comtesse  de.  j  S456S 

Sophie's  troubles.     Kenedy. 
True  story  of  a  bad  little  girl  who  became  good. 

Segur,  Sophie  (Rostopchine),  comtesse  de.  j  S456st 

Story  of  a  donkey;  abridged  from  the  French  by  Charles  Welsh; 
ed.  by  C.  F.  Dole.    Heath. 

Adventures  of  Neddy,  the  donkey,  as  told  by  himself.  "I  must  confess,"  he  says, 
"that  in  my  youth  I  sometimes  behaved  very  badly  and  you  will  see  how  I  was  punished 
for  it." 

Serl,  Emma.  j  372.4  S48 

In  the  animal  world.  1913.  Silver.  (Serl  series  supplementary 
readers.) 

Contents:  The  cat  family. — The  dog  family. — Seals  and  sea  lions. — Bears. — Gnaw- 
ers.— The  monkey  family. — Thick-skinned  animals. — Cud  chewers. — The  horse  family. 

Short  stories,  poems  and  brief  descriptions  for  the  younger  children.  Small  mar- 
ginal illustrations. 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson,  ed.  j  S49Sa2 

Animal  story  book.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new 
ser.  v.6.) 

Contents:  The  fox  and  the  crow,  The  wolf  and  the  lamb,  The  lion  and  the  mouse, 
The  fox  and  the  goat,  The  lion,  the  tiger  and  the  fox,  The  lark  and  her  young  ones, 
The  lion,  the  fox  and  the  wolf,  The  cock  and  the  fox,  The  hen  and  the  fox,  The  fox, 
the  wolf  and  the  horse,  The  cat  and  the  fox,  from  the  fables  of  JEsop. — The  dog  that 
dropped  the  substance  for  the  shadow,  The  fox  with  his  tail  cut  off,  The  city  rat  and 
the  country  rat,  The  ass  loaded  with  sponges  and  the  ass  loaded  with  salt,  from  the 
fables  of  La  Fontaine. — Belling  the  cat,  from  Langland's  Vision  of  Piers  Plowman. — The 
old  hare  and  the  elephants,  from  the  Hitopadega. — The  timid  hare  and  the  flight  of  the 
beasts,  from  the  Jataka. — Saint  Gerasimus  and  the  lion,  by  A.  F.  Brown. — Reynard  the 
fox. — Androcles  and  the  lion. — My  lion  friend,  by  Monsieur  Gerard. — A  lion  story,  by 
Sir  Samuel  Baker. — A  narrow  escape  from  a  tiger,  Trapping  a  leopard,  by  Robert 
Cochrane. — The  grizzly  bear,  by  Washington  Irving. — The  girls,  the  bear  and  the  alli- 
gator, by  Robert  Cochrane. — A  fight  between  a  lion  and  a  crocodile,  by  H.  R,  Haggard 
— Sagacity  of  the  elephant,  Working  elephants  at  Rangoon,  by  Robert  (\>elii.uu-.  —  Moti 
Guj,  mutineer,  by  Rudyard  Kipling. — Exploits  of  Samson,  by  Robert  Cochrane.—  A  mad 
elephant,  by  James  Inglis. — Monkey  stories,  Monkeys  in  confinement,  Mj  pel  ape,  by 
Robert  Cochrane. — The  early  days  of  Black  Beauty,  by  Anna  Sewcll. — A  parrot  whicli 
answered  questions,  by  Sir  William  Temple. — Some  parrots  I  have  known,  A  photogra- 
pher's parrot,  My  pet  starling,  by  Robert  Cochrane. — Tales  of  instinct  and  reason,  by 
Lady  Julia  Lockwood.  —  Rah  and  his  friends,  by  John  Brown.  —Our  new  neighV 
Ponkapog,  by  T.  B.  Aldrich.  —  Moufflon,  by  Ouida. — A  story  of  I  chipmunk,  bv  John 
Burroughs. — The  homesickness  of  Kehonka,  by  C.  G.  D,  Robert)  fhe  il  iry  of  Homer, 
by  F.  M.  Gilbert. — How  Red  Wull  In  Id  the  bridge,  by  Alfred  Ollivant  Maldonada  and 
the  puma,  by  W.  H.  Hudson. — The  captain's  dog,  bj  I  \  £naul1  Royal'l  fate,  by 
F.  L,  Shaw. — The  civilized  fox,  by  C.  D,  Warner.     The  Eskimo  dog,  by  Edward  Jesse. 


3io  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  8495b 

Biography  of  a  grizzly.     Century. 
Appeared   in   the   "Century,"   v.59. 
Story  of  Meteetsee  Wahb,  the  big  grizzly  of  Yellowstone  park. 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  796.5  S49 

Book  of  woodcraft  and  Indian  lore.     1913.     Doubleday. 

Explains  the  purpose  and  laws  of  the  Woodcraft  Indians,  method  of  organization, 
ceremonies,  honors  and  degrees.  Also  chapters  on  scouting,  camp  life  and  natural  his- 
tory. 

Eleventh  edition  of  the  "Birch-bark  roll." 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  8495k 

Krag  and  Johnny  Bear.     Scribner. 

The  personal  histories  of  Krag,  the  Kootenay  ram  ;  Randy,  a  cock  sparrow ;  Johnny 
Bear,  a  queer  little  bear  cub  that  lived  with  Grumpy,  his  mother,  in  Yellowstone  park; 
and  Chink,  a  mountaineer's  heroic  little  dog. 

Selections  from  "Lives  of  the  hunted." 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  S495U 

Lives  of  the  hunted.    Scribner. 

Contents:  Krag,  the  Kootenay  ram. — A  street  troubadour;  the  adventures  of  a 
cock  sparrow. — Johnny  Bear. — The  mother  teal  and  the  overland  route. — Chink;  the 
development  of  a  pup. — The  kangaroo  rat. — Tito;  the  story  of  the  coyote  that  learned 
how. — Why  the  chickadee  goes  crazy  once  a  year. 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  S495I 

Lobo,  Rag  and  Vixen.    Scribner. 

Stories  selected  from  his  "Wild  animals  I  have  known." 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  S495t 

Trail  of  the  Sandhill  stag.    Scribner. 

A  hunter's  tale  of  his  long  and  patient  following  on  the  trail  of  the  Sandhill  stag. 
The  illustrations — Indian  signs,  deer-tracks  and  bits  of  snowy  landscape — tell  almost  as 
much  as  the  story  itself. 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  793.1  S49 

Wild  animal  play  for  children,  with  alternate  reading  for  very 
young  children.     1900.     Doubleday. 

Grizzly  Wahb,  Lobo,  the  wolf,  Molly  Cottontail,  Redruff,  Vixen  and  other  char- 
acters from  the  author's  animal  story  books.  Directions  for  giving  the  play  and  pic- 
tures showing  costumes. 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  591.5  S49 

Wild  animals  at  home.     1913.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  The  cute  coyote. — The  prairie-dog  and  his  kin. — Famous  furbearers; 
fox,  marten,  beaver  and  otter. — Horns  and  hoofs  and  legs  of  speed. — Bats  in  the  devil's 
kitchen. — The  well-meaning  skunk. — Old  silver-grizzle,  the  badger. — The  squirrel  and 
his  jerky-tail  brothers. — The  rabbits  and  their  habits.— Ghosts  of  the  campfire. — Sneak- 
cats,  big  and  small. — Bears  of  high  and  low  degree. — Appendix:  Mammals  of  Yellow- 
stone park. 

Seton,  Ernest  Thompson.  j  S495W 

Wild  animals  I  have  known.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Lobo,  the  king  of  Currumpaw. — Silverspot,  the  story  of  a  crow. — Raggy- 
lug,  the  story  of  a  cottontail  rabbit. — Bingo,  the  story  of  my  dog. — The  Springfield  fox. 
— The  pacing  mustang. — Wully,  the  story  of  a  yaller  dog. — Redruff,  the  story  of  the 
Don  valley  partridge. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  311 

j  398.2  S4ga 
Seven  champions  of  Christendom;  ed.  by  F.  J.  H.  Darton,  illustrated  by 
Norman  Ault.     [1913.]     Gardner 

The  same,  by  Thomas  Cartwright.  [1908.]  Dutton.  (Every  child's 
library.) j  398.2  S49 

Adventures  of  the  noble  champions,  St.  George,  St.  Denis,  St.  James,  St.  Anthony, 
St.  Andrew,  St.  Patrick  and  St.  David.  How  they  conquered  the  pagans,  rescued  fair 
ladies  in  distress  and  rid  the  world  of  necromancers,  giants,  dragons  and  other  evils. 

Sewell,  Anna.  j  Ssi6b 

Black  Beauty;  autobiography  of  a  horse.     Dodge;  Jacobs. 

Black  Beauty  tells  the  story  of  his  life;  all  about  his  early  home,  his  "breaking  in," 
how  he  saved  his  master's  life,  the  horse-fair,  his  adventures  in  London  and  his  ex- 
periences with  his  mates,  Ginger,  Merrylegs  and  Captain,  the  old  war-horse.  Colored 
pictures. 

Shafer,  Donald  Cameron.  j  537  S52 

Harper's  beginning  electricity.  1913.  Harper.  (Harper's  practical 
books.) 

"Explains  electricity  very  simply  in  connection  with  experiments  which  any  boy  can 
do  and  devices  which  any  boy  can  make."     Foreword. 

Contains  chapters  on  electric  lighting,  the  telegraph,  telephone  and  other  practical 
applications.     Appendix  gives  a  short  history  of  electricity.      Illustrated. 

Shahan,  Thomas  Joseph,  ed.  j  292  S521T1 

Myths  and  legends.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library, 
new  ser.  v. 5.) 

Contents:  The  golden  touch,  The  paradise  of  children,  The  three  golden  apples. 
The  miraculous  pitcher,  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — The  Argonauts,  by  Charles  Kingsley. 
— The  Odyssey,  by  A.  J.  Church. — King  Arthur  and  the  knights  of  the  Round  Table. — 
Childe  Horn. — The  story  of  Beowulf. — Rip  Van  Winkle,  by  Washington  Irving. — Selec- 
tions from  Ossian. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  O31 

As  you  like  it,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1907. 
Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

"The  sweetest  and   happiest  of  all   Shakespeare's  comedies."     Dowden. 
"They  say  he  is  already  in  the  forest  of  Arden,  and  a  many  merry  men   with  him; 
and  there  they  live  like  the  old  Robin  Hood  of  England.     They  say  many  young  gentle- 
men  flock  to  him  every  day,  and   fleet  the  time  carelessly,  as  they  did   in  the  golden 
world." 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  Hugh  Thomson.    Hodder..qj  822.33  O32 
The  same;  ed.  by  F.  J.  H.  Darton.     Gardner.     (Bankside  acting  edi- 
tion of  Shakespeare  for  schools.) j  822.33  O3 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  O5 

Comedy  of  errors,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz. 
1906.     Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

The  comical  blunders  of  one  eventful  day  caused  by  the  resemblance  of  twin 
brothers  and  of  their  twin  slaves. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  O7 

Comedy  of  Love's  labour's  lost,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by 
Israel  Gollancz.     1909.     Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

Ferdinand,  king  of  Navarre,  and  three  of  his  courtiers  forswear  the  society  of 
women  and  agree  for  the  period  of  three  years  to  lead  austere  lives  devoted  to  Study. 
This  "pleasant  comedy"  shows  how  they  were  "entrapped  in  Cupid's  snare"  and  how 
the  vow  was  kept. 


312  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  Ri 

Comedy  of  the  Two  gentlemen  of  Verona,  with  preface,  glossary, 
&c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.     1910.     Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

The  "two  gentlemen"  are  Valentine  and  Proteus;  the  two  ladies  "beloved,"  Julia 
and  Silvia.  The  play  tells  how  Proteus  betrayed  his  friend,  how  Valentine,  banished 
from  court,  became  an  outlaw  and  how,  in  disguise,  the  lady  Julia  sought  her  lover. 
Contains  the  well  known  song  beginning 

"Who  is  Silvia?  what  is  she, 
That  all  our  swains  commend  her? 
Holy,   fair,   and   wise  is  she; 
The    heaven    such    grace    did    lend   her, 
That  she  might  admired  be." 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  S71 

Hamlet,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1907.  Dent. 
(Temple  Shakespeare.) 

"This  is  that  Hamlet  the  Dane... who  made  that  famous  soliloquy  on  life,  who 
gave  the  advice  to  the  players... he  who  talked  with  the  grave-diggers,  and  moralized 
on  Yorick's  skull;  the  school-fellow  of  Rosencrantz  and  Guildenstern  at  Wittenberg; 
the  friend  of  Horatio;  the  lover  of  Ophelia;  he  that  was  mad  and  sent  to  England;  the 
slow  avenger  of  his  father's  death;  who  lived  at  the  court  of  Horwendillus  five  hun- 
dred years  before  we  were  born,  but  all  whose  thoughts  we  seem  to  know  as  well  as 
we  do  our  own,  because  we  have  read  them  in  Shakespeare."     Hazlitt. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  Xi 

Historie  of  the  life  &  death  of  King  John,  with  preface,  glossary, 

etc.  by  Israel  Gollancz.     1905.     Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

"We  can  say 
He  shows  a  history  couch'd   in   a  play; 
A  history   of  noble  mention,   known 
Famous,  and  true." 

The  same;  ed.  by  F.  J.  H.  Darton.  Gardner.  (Bankside  acting  edi- 
tion of  Shakespeare  for  schools.) j  822.33  X12 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  Ti 

Julius  Caesar,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.     1906. 

Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

"This  was  the  noblest  Roman  of  them  all, 
All  the  conspirators,   save  only  he, 
Did  that  they  did  in   envy  of  great  Caesar; 
He  only,  in  a  general  honest  thought 
And   common   good   to  all,   made   one   of  them. 
His  life  was  gentle,  and  the  elements 
So  mix'd  in  him  that  Nature  might  stand  up 
And  say  to  all  the  world,  'This  was  a  man.'  " 

Mark  Antony's  eulogy  of  Brutus  in  the  play  of  "Julius  Caesar."  Some  of  the  fa- 
mous scenes  are  the  meeting  of  the  conspirators,  the  speech  of  Mark  Antony  over  the 
dead  body  of  Caesar  and  the  quarrel  of  Brutus  and  Cassius. 

The  same;  ed.  by  F.  J.  H.  Darton.  Gardner.  (Bankside  acting  edi- 
tion of  Shakespeare  for  schools.) j  822.33  T12 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  Wn 

King  Henry  IV,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  2v. 
1906.    Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

Here  is  "the  headstrong  valour  of  Hotspur,  the  wonderful  wit  of  Falstaff,  the 
vanquished  rebels  who  wound  England  with  their  horses'  hoofs,  the  noble  rivalry  of 
Henry  Percy  and  Henry  Prince  of  Wales — 

'O,  would  the  quarrel  lay  upon  our  heads; 
And  that  no  man  might  draw  short  breath  to-day, 
But  I  and  Harry  Monmouth.'  " 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  313 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  W3 

King  Henry  V,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1906. 
Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

"I   see  you  stand  like  greyhounds  in  the  slips, 
Straining  upon  the  start.     The  game's  afoot: 
Follow  your  spirit,  and  upon  this  charge 
Cry    'God   for   Harry,    England,    and    Saint   George!'  " 

From  the  speech  before  the  walls  of  Harfleur  in  the  play  about  King  Henry  the 
Fifth  and  his  famous  victories  in  France.  The  wooing  of  the  French  princess,  Katherine, 
is  one  of  the  famous  scenes. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  T31 

King  Lear,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1907. 
Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

The  tragic  story  of  Lear,  king  of  Britain,  dishonored  by  the  cruel  ingratitude  of  his 
two  unnatural  daughters;  and  of  the  unhappy  fate  of  the  lovely  and  faithful  Cordelia, 
youngest  of  the  sisters. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  X5 

King  Richard  III,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz. 

1909.    Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

Historical  play  of  the  time  of  the  wars  of  York  and  Lancaster.  Tells  of  the 
treacherous  plots  of  Richard,  duke  of  Gloucester,  the  murder  of  his  innocent  nephews 
in  the  Tower,  his  tyrannical  usurpation  and  most  deserved  death. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  T51 

Macbeth,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1906. 
Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

"The  castle  of  Macbeth,  round  which  'the  air  smells  wooingly,'  and  where  'the 
temple-haunting  martlet  builds,'  has  a  real  subsistence  in  the  mind;  the  Weird  Sisters 
meet  us  in  person  on  'the  blasted  heath;'  the  'air-drawn  dagger'  moves  slowly  before  our 
eyes;  the  'gracious  Duncan,'  the  'blood-boultered  Banquo'  stand  before  us;  all  that  passed 
through  the  mind  of  Macbeth  passes,  without  the  loss  of  a  tittle,  through  ours."     Hazlitt. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  P31 

Merchant  of  Venice,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz. 
1907.     Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

The  sealing  of  the  fateful  bond  between  Antonio  and  the  crafty  Shylock,  the  choos- 
ing of  the  caskets,  and  the  playful  differences  about  the  rings,  are  some  of  the  best 
passages,  while  "the  whole  of  the  trial-scene,  both  before  and  after  the  entrance  of 
Portia,   is  a  masterpiece   of  dramatic   skill." 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  Sir  J.  D.  Linton.  Hodder..qj  822.33  P32 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  P72 

Midsummer  night's  dream,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel 
Gollancz.     1906.     Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

A  fairy  play.  "Shall  we  mention  the  remonstrance  of  Helena  to  Hermia,  or 
Titania's  description  of  her  fairy  train,  or  her  disputes  with  Oberon  about  the  Indian 
boy,  or  Puck's  account  of  himself  and  his  employments,  or  the  Fairy  Queen's  exhorta- 
tion to  the  elves  to  pay  due  attendance  upon  her  favorite,  Bottom,  or  Hippolyta's  de- 
scription of  a  chase,  or  Theseus'  answer?"     Haclitt. 

The  same,  with  introductory  story,  decorations  and  illustrations  by 
L.  F.  Perkins.     1907.     Stokes qj  822.33  P73 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  W.  H.  Robinson.     1914. 
Holt qj  822.33  P74 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  Arthur  Rackham.  [1914.]  Double- 
day j  822.33  P75 


314  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  U32 

Romeo   &  Juliet,  with   preface,   glossary,   &c.  by   Israel   Gollancz. 

1906.    Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 
A  love  tale  of  old  Verona. 

"For  never  was  a  story  of  more  woe 
Than  this  of  Juliet  and  her  Romeo." 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  Q3 

Taming  of  the  shrew,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gol- 
lancz.    1906.     Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

A  comedy  in  which  it  is  shown  how  Katharine,  famous  in  Padua  as  Katharine  the 
Shrew,  became  a  most  obedient  and  dutiful  wife. 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  Q52 

The  tempest,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1906. 
Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

A  romantic  play,  the  scene  of  which  is  an  enchanted  isle.  The  principal  characters 
are:  "the  stately  magician,  Prospero,  driven  from  his  dukedom,  but  around  whom  (so 
potent  is  his  art)  airy  spirits  throng  numberless  to  do  his  bidding;  his  daughter  Miranda 
('worthy  of  that  name'),  to  whom  all  the  power  of  his  art  points,  and  who  seems  the 
goddess  of  the  isle;  the  princely  Ferdinand,  cast  by  fate  upon  the  haven  of  his  happiness 
in  this  idol  of  his  love;  the  delicate  Ariel;  the  savage  Caliban,  half  brute,  half  demon." 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  Edmund  Dulac.    Hodder..qj  822.33  Q53 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  S3 

Tragedy  of  Coriolanus,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gol- 
lancz.   1909.    Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

The  hero  is  the  brave  but  proud  Caius  Marcius  who,  for  his  deeds  before  Corioli, 
received  the  name  of  Coriolanus.  He  went  into  exile,  revenged  himself  against  Rome 
and  met  a  tragic  fate.  Another  of  the  important  characters  of  the  play  is  his  mother 
Volumnia  who,  according  to  the  story,  "saved  Rome  and  lost  her  son." 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  Q7 

Twelfth  night,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1909. 
Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

A  comedy  with  a  complicated  plot.  There  are  many  comic  situations  due  to  the 
mistaken  identity  of  the  heroine,  Viola,  who  has  been  rescued  from  shipwreck,  and  for 
safety  has  taken  the  disguise  of  a  page. 

"She  never  told  her  love, 
But  let  concealment,  like  a  worm  i'  the  bud, 
Feed  on  her  damask  cheek;  she  pined  in  thought 
And  with  a  green  and  yellow  melancholy 
She  sat  like  patience  on  a  monument, 
Smiling  at   grief." 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  W.  H.  Robinson.  Hodder..qj  822.33  Q72 

Shakespeare,  William.  j  822.33  R3 

Winter's  tale,  with  preface,  glossary,  &c.  by  Israel  Gollancz.  1909. 
Dent.     (Temple  Shakespeare.) 

Contains  the  sad  story  of  the  noble  queen  Hermione;  the  romance  of  Florizel  and 
Perdita  the  shepherdess;  and  the  merry  roguery  of  Autolycus. 

Shakespeare,  William.    As  you  like  it.    For  adaptation  see 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  As  you  like  it j  822.33  H18 

Shakespeare,  William.    Julius  Caesar.    For  adaptation  see 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  Julius  Caesar j  822.33  H23 

Shakespeare,  William.     King  Henry  V.     For  adaptation  see 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  King  Henry  the  Fifth j  822.33  H15 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  315 

Shakespeare,  William.     King  John.     For  adaptation  sec 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  King  John j  822.33  H21 

Shakespeare,  William.    King  Lear.    For  adaptation  sec 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  King  Lear j  822.33  H22 

Shakespeare,  William.     King  Richard  II.     For  adaptation  see 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  King  Richard  II j  822.33  H14 

Shakespeare,  William.     Macbeth.    For  adaptation  sec 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  Macbeth j  822.33  H24 

Shakespeare,  William.     Merchant  of  Venice.     For  adaptation  sec 

Hoffman,  A.  S.    Story  of  The  merchant  of  Venice j  822.33  H16 

Shakespeare,  William.     Midsummer  night's  dream.    For  adaptation  see 
Hoffman,  A.  S.    Story  of  a  Midsummer  night's  dream,  .j  822.33  H17 

Shakespeare,  William.     The  tempest.     For  adaptation  see 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Story  of  The  tempest j  822.33  H19 

Shakespeare,  William.     Works.     For  adaptation  sec 

Carter, T.  T.     Shakespeare's  stories  of  the  English  kings. .j  822.33  H25 
Couch,  Sir  A.  T.  Quiller.     Historical  tales  from  Shakes- 
peare   j  822.33  H9 

Hoffman,  A.  S.     Children's  Shakespeare j  822.33  H20 

Lamb,  Charles,  &  Lamb,  Mary.    Tales  from  Shakespeare..]  822.33  H 
MacLeod,  Mary.     Shakespeare  story-book j  822.33  H2 

Shaler,  Nathaniel  Southgate.  j  917  S52 

Story  of  our  continent.    1894.    Ginn. 

Outlines  the  geological  history  of  North  America  and  shows  how  the  natural  condi- 
tions have  determined  its  resources  and  products  and  affected  the  life  of  the  people. 

Sharp,  Dallas  Lore.  j  59°-4  Ss3b 

Beyond  the  pasture  bars,  with  illustrations  by  Bruce  Horsfall.  191 5. 
Century.     (Wild  life  series  of  graded  nature  readers.) 

Contents:  Beyond  the  pasture  bars.— The  crazy  flicker. —  The  wild  geese. —  The 
wood-pussy. —  A  house  of  many  doors. —  Wild  life  in  the  farm-yard. —  A  song  of  the 
winter  woods. — On  the  'possum's  trail. — The  dance  in  the  alder  swale. — Chickaree  the 
scold. — A  lesson  in  natural  history. — Calico  and  the  kittens. 

Sharp,  Dallas  Lore.  j  590.4  S53f 

Fall  of  the  year;  illustrated  by  R.  B.  Horsfall.     1911.     Houghton. 

(Dallas  Lore  Sharp  nature  series.) 

"Notes  and  suggestions,"  p. 105-126. 

First  of  a  series  of  books  describing  "the  out  of  doors,  its  living  creatures  and  their 
doings."     Introduction. 

Sharp,  Dallas  Lore.  j  5904  Ss3r2 

Roof  and  meadow.     1904.     Houghton. 

Contents:     Birds   from  a  city   roof. —  The  hunting   of  the  woodchuck. —  Three   ser- 
mons.— The    marsh. — Calico    and    the    kittens. — The    sparrow    ro   It      "Max." 
creek.— The   dragon  of  the  swale. — Tickle-birds  and  the  Coccinellidx. — The    crazy    flicker. 
— Some   friendly  birds. — "The  longest  way  round." — "One  flew  east  and  one  flew 
— Chickaree. —  Bird  friendships. — Farm-yard  studies. 


316  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Sharp,  Dallas  Lore.  j  590.4  S53S 

Spring  of  the  year;  illustrated  by  R.  B.  Horsfall.  1909.  Houghton. 
(Dallas  Lore  Sharp  nature  series.) 

"Notes  and  suggestions,"  p.  137-148. 

Suggestions  for  tramps  afield,  telling  what  to  look  for,  to  hear  and  to  do.  Includes 
his  "Turtle  eggs  for  Agassiz." 

Sharp,  Dallas  Lore.  j  590.4  S53 

A  watcher  in  the  woods.     1912.    Century. 

Contents:  Birds'  winter  beds. — Some  snug  winter  beds. — "Mus'  rattin'." — Feathered 
neighbors. — From  river-ooze  to  tree-top. — Rabbit  roads. — Second  crops. — In  the  October 
moon. 

Sharp,  Dallas  Lore.  j  590.4  S53W 

Winter;  illustrated  by  R.  B.  Horsfall.  1912.  Houghton.  (Dallas 
Lore  Sharp  nature  series.) 

Contents:  Hunting  the  snow. — The  turkey  drive. — White-foot. — A  chapter  of  things 
to  see  this  winter. — Christmas  in  the  woods. — Chickadee. — A  chapter  of  things  to  do  this 
winter. — The  missing  tooth. — The  peculiar  'possum. — A  February  freshet. — A  breach  in 
the  bank. — A  chapter  of  things  to  hear  this  winter. — The  last  day  of  winter. 

"Notes  and  suggestions,"  p. 137-148. 

Sharpe,  Mrs.  j  821  S53 

Dame  Wiggins  of  Lee  and  her  seven  wonderful  cats;  ed.  by  John 
Ruskin.     1890.    Allen. 

"A  humorous  tale  written  principally  by  a  lady  of  ninety,"  with  facsimiles  of  the 
old  woodcuts  and  new  illustrations  by  Kate  Greenaway. 

"Dame   Wiggins   of  Lee 
Was  a  worthy  old  soul, 
As  e'er  threaded  a  nee- 
dle, or  washed  in  a  bowl: 
She  held  mice  and  rats 
In  such   antipa-thy; 
That    seven    fine    cats 
Kept  Dame  Wiggins  of  Lee." 

Shaw,  Edward  Richard.  j  390  S53 

Big  people  and  little  people  of  other  lands.    1900.    Araer.  Book  Co. 

(Eclectic  school  readings.) 

About  the  dress,  appearance  and  ways  of  living  of  the  big  and  little  people  of 
China,  Arabia,  Lapland,  Patagonia,  Russia,  Holland  and  other  far-off  lands. 

Shaw,  Edward  Richard.  j  910.9  S53 

Discoverers    and    explorers.      1900.      Amer.    Book    Co.      (Eclectic 

school  readings.) 

Contents:  Beliefs  as  to  the  world  four  hundred  years  ago. — Marco  Polo. — Colum- 
bus.— Vasco  da  Gama. — John  and  Sebastian  Cabot's  voyages. — Amerigo  Vespucci. — Ponce 
de  Leon. — Balboa. — Magellan. — Hernando  Cortes. — Francisco  Pizarro. — Ferdinand  de 
Soto. — The  great  river  Amazon  and  El  Dorado. — Verrazzano. — The  famous  voyage  of 
Sir  Francis  Drake,  1577. — Henry  Hudson. 

Shaw,  Ellen  Eddy.  j  716  S53 

Gardening  and  farming.     191 1.     Doubleday.     (Children's  library  of 

work  and  play.) 

Experiments  and  experiences  of  the  Junior  Garden  Club,  together  with  the  chief's 
talks  on  plant  food,  seeds,  garden  pests,  vegetable  and  flower  culture,  landscape  garden- 
ing, etc. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  317 

Shaw,  Flora  Louisa,  afterzcard  Lady  Lugard.  j  S534C 

Castle  Blair.     Heath. 

Story  of  a  jolly  family  of  boys  and  girls  and  of  their  life  in  Ireland  at  Castle  Blair. 

This  is  the  book  which  John  Ruskin  said  "is  good  and  lovely  and  true,  having  the 
best  description  of  a  noble  child  in  it  (Winnie)  that  I  ever  read:  and  nearly  the  best 
description  of  the  next  best  thing — a  noble  dog." 

Shepard,  William,  pseud.    See  Walsh,  William  Shepard. 

Sherman,  Frank  Dempster.  j  811  S55 

Little-folk  lyrics.     1897.     Houghton. 
Verses  about  the  blossoms,  the  birds,  the  months,  dreams,  fairies,  etc. 

Sherwood,  Mrs  Mary  Martha  (Butt).  j  S5541 

Fairchild  family;  ed.  with  an  introduction  by  M.  E.  Palgrave. 
Stokes. 

"The  History  of  Lucy,  Emily,  and  Henry  Fairchild  was  begun  in  1818.  .  .The  two  lit- 
tle misses  and  their  brother  played  and  did  lessons,  were  naughty  and  good,  happy  and 
sorrowful,  when  George  III.  was  still  on  the  throne;  when  gentlemen  wore  blue  coats  with 
brass  buttons,  knee-breeches,  and  woolen  stockings;  and  ladies  were  attired  in  short 
waists,   low  necks,  and  long  ringlets."     Introduction. 

New  edition  with  illustrations  by  Florence  M.   Rudland. 

Shimmell,  Lewis  Slifer.  j  353-9  S55 

Government  of  Pennsylvania.     1908.     Merrill. 
With  this  is  bound  his  "Government  of  the  United  States." 

Shimmell,  Lewis  Slifer.  j  353-9  S55 

Government  of  the  United  States.     1916.     Merrill. 

Bound  with  his  "Government  of  Pennsylvania." 

Chiefly  a  study  of  the  constitution  of  the  United  States.  Final  chapter  gives  a 
brief  outline  of  the  governments  of  England,  France,  Germany,  Russia  and  Japan. 

Shioya,  Sakae.  j  9152  S55 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Japan.  1906.  Lothrop.  (Children  of  other 
lands  books.) 

In  describing  his  own  home  and  school  life  in  Japan  the  author  gives  a  good  idea  of 
the  life  and  customs  of  the  people. 

j  353  S55 
Ship  of  state,  by  those  at  the  helm.  1903.  Ginn.  (Youth's  companion 
series.) 

Contents:  The  presidency,  by  Theodore  Roosevelt. — The  life  of  a  senator,  by  H.  C. 
Lodge. — The  life  of  a  congressman,  by  T.  B.  Reed. — The  Supreme  court  of  the  United 
States,  by  D.  J.  Brewer. — How  Jack  lives,  by  J.  D.  Long. — The  Naval  War  College,  by 
J.  D.  Long. — How  our  soldiers  are  fed,  by  W.  C.  Sanger. — How  the  army  is  clothed, 
by  Gen.  M.  I.  Ludington. — Good  manners  and  diplomacy,  by  W.  R.  Day. — How  foreign 
treaties  are  made,  by  H.  C.  Lodge. — Uncle  Sam's  law  business,  by  J.  R.  Richards. — The 
American    post  office,  by  W.  L.  Wilson. 

Shoemaker,  Charles  Chalmers,  ed.  j  793  S55 

Holiday  entertainments.     1906.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 

Dialogues,   tableaux,   stories  and   recitations   for  Christmas  and   other   holidays. 

Shoemaker,  J.  W.  comp.  j  808.8  S55 

Best  things  from  best  authors,    v.1-9.     1895-1906.     Penn  Pub.  Co. 
Includes  no.  1-27   of  Shoemaker's  "Best  selections." 

All  sorts  of  selections  for  declamation.  Many  of  them  arc  suitable  for  special  oc- 
casions such  as  school  exhibitions,  festivals,  anniversaries  and  holidays. 


318  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Shute,  Katharine  H.  comp.  j  821.08  S56 

Land  of  song;  ed.  by  Larkin  Dunton.    3v.     1898-1900.    Silver. 

v.i.     For  primary  grades. 

v.2.     For  lower  grammar  grades. 

v.3.     For  upper  grammar  grades. 

Sidgwick,  Mrs  Cecily  (Ullmann),  &  Paynter,  Mrs.  j  716  S56 

Children's  book  of  gardening,  with  illustrations  in  colour  from 
drawings  by  Mrs  Cayley-Robinson.     1909.     Black. 

Tells  about  annuals,  bulbs  and  bedding  plants;  how  to  raise  roses,  lilies,  carnations 
and  other  flowers;  what  to  plant  in  shady  places;  how  to  make  rock  and  wall  gardens, 
window  gardens,  etc.  Adapted  to  English  conditions,  but  will  be  a  help  to  all  boys  and 
girls  interested  in  gardening. 

Sidgwick,  Ethel.  j  793.1  S56 

Four  plays  for  children.  1913.    Sidgwick. 

Contents:  The  rose  and  the  ring. — The  goody-witch.— The  goosegirl. — Boots  and 
the  north  wind. 

Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)  j  Ss6ga 

Lothrop). 
Adventures  of  Joel  Pepper.     Lothrop. 

This  story  goes  back  to  the  days  of  the  little  brown  house  before  the  Peppers  went 
to  live  in  the  city,  and  tells  of  the  stage-coach  ride,  the  fight  at  Strawberry  hill,  the  cir- 
cus and  other  adventures  of  the  irrepressible  Joel. 

Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)         j  Ss69fv 
Lothrop). 
Five  little  Peppers  abroad.     Lothrop. 

Continues  the  story  of  the  "Five  little  Peppers  midway"  and  tells  what  the  Pep- 
pers did  and  saw  on  their  journey  through  Europe. 

Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)  j  Ss6gf 

Lothrop). 

Five  little  Peppers  and  how  they  grew.     Lothrop. 

All  about  Polly  Pepper  and  her  brothers  and  little  Phronsie,  and  their  happy  life 
in  the  little  brown  house. 

Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)         j  Ssogfve 
Lothrop). 
Five  little  Peppers  and  their  friends.    Lothrop. 
Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)         j  S5691I 
Lothrop). 
Five  little  Peppers  at  school.    Lothrop. 
Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)         j  Ss6gfiv 
Lothrop). 
Five  little  Peppers  grown  up;  a  sequel  to  Five  little  Peppers  mid- 
way.    Lothrop. 

Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)         j  Ss6gfi 
Lothrop). 
Five  little  Peppers  midway;  a  sequel  to  Five  little  Peppers  and  how 
they  grew.    Lothrop. 

What  the  five  little  Peppers  did  in  the  city. 

Sidney,  Margaret,  {pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)  j  S569P 

■    Lothrop). 
Phronsie  Pepper;  the  last  of  the  Five  little  Peppers.     Lothrop. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  319 

Sidney,  Margaret,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Harriet  Mulford  (Stone)  j  S569S 

Lothrop). 
Stories  Polly  Pepper  told.     Lothrop. 

Siepert,  Albert  F.  j  598.2  S57 

Bird  houses  boys  can  build.     1917.     Manual  Arts  Press. 

"Where  more  information  may  be  obtained,"  p.57. 

Directions    for    building    a    variety    of    bird-houses.      Many    pictures    and    diagrams. 

Simons,  Sarah  Emma,  &  Orr,  C.  I.  j  793.1  S61 

Dramatization;  selections  from  English  classics  adapted  in  dramatic 
form.    1913.    Scott. 

"Bibliography,"  pt.  1,  p.62-64. 

Aim  is  to  give  practical  suggestions  for  the  dramatization  of  classics  in  the  high 
school,  including  problems  of  staging,  costuming  and  general  setting.  Specimen  dramati- 
zations are  included,  covering  four  years'  work  in  connection  with  the  teaching  of  Eng- 
lish courses.  Some  of  the  works  dramatized  are:  "Treasure  island,"  "Ivanhoe,"  "The 
Iliad,"  "Tale  of  two  cities,"   "Silas  Marner,"   "Vicar  of  Wakefield"  and  "Comus." 

Singleton,  Esther.  j  917.471  S61 

The  children's  city  [New  York].     1910.    Sturgis. 

A  New  York  boy  and  girl  make  excursions  to  Morningside  and  Riverside  parks  and 
the  statue  of  Liberty,  explore  Central  park  and  visit  the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art, 
the  Botanical  garden,  the  Zoological  park,  the  aquarium  and  the  natural  history  museum. 
Illustrations  from  photographs. 

Singmaster,  Elsie.  j  S6i7e 

Emmeline.     Houghton. 

Emmeline,  fifteen,  and  stanchly  loyal  to  the  North,  unexpectedly  plays  an  important 
role  with  some  of  the  rebel  soldiers  who  had  taken  refuge  in  her  grandmother's  house 
during  the  battle  of  Gettysburg.     Condensed  from  Booklist,  1016. 

Singmaster,  Elsie.  j  S617I 

The  long  journey.     Houghton. 

Short  story  telling  of  the  perilous  journey  in  1709-10  of  John  Conrad  Weiser  and 
his  children  with  other  German  colonists  to  England  and  thence  to  the  New  World  where, 
after  enduring  many  hardships,  they  finally  found  a  home  in  the  Mohawk  valley.  The 
interest  is  largely  centered  in  the  son  Conrad  who,  later,  came  into  the  service  of  the 
province  of  Pennsylvania  and  was  especially  influential  in  directing  the  Indian  policy  of 
the  colony. 

Singmaster,  Elsie.  j  S617W 

When  Sarah  saved  the  day.    Houghton. 

How  fifteen-year-old  Sarah,  a  Pennsylvania-German  girl,  kept  the  house,  the  twins 
and  the  baby  in  spite  of  Uncle  Daniel,  who  wanted  the  farm. 

Singmaster,  Elsie.  j  S6i7wh 

When  Sarah  went  to  school.     Houghton. 

As  a  sub-junior  at  a  normal  school,  Sarah  has  various  trials  and  triumphs.  Sequel 
to  "When  Sarah  saved  the  day." 

Siviter,  Mrs  Anna  (Pierpont).  j  S624n 

Nehe.     Wilde. 

Tale   of  the  days  of   Artaxerxcs  the   great   king,   telling   how    Nrlicmi.ih,   cup-bi 
and  royal  favorite,  rebuilt  the  walls  of  Jerusalem. 

Siviter,  Mrs  Anna  (Pierpont),  &  Siviter,  F.  P.  j  S6240 

On  parole.     Holt. 

Adventures  of  two  boys  in  Wyoming.     They  aid  a   party   "t    scientist!  in   a  search 
for  fossil  animals,  are  captured  by  horse-thieves,  and  discovei   a  coppei   mine, 


320  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Skinner,  Ada  Maria,  &  Lawrence,  L.  N.  j  372.4  S62 

Little  dramas  for  primary  grades.     1913.     Amer.  Book  Co. 
Fables,  fairy  stories  and  poems,  arranged  in  dialogue  form.     Adapted  for  first  and 

second  grades. 

Sleffel,  Charles  Conrad.  j  739  S63 

Working  in  metals.  191 1.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library  of  work 
and  play.) 

Contents:  Introductory. — Tools. — -Work  in  copper. — Brass  work. — Silver  work. — 
The  blacksmith's    shop. — Ornamental   iron   work. 

Sloane,  Thomas  O'Conor.  j  537.81  S63a2 

Electric  toy  making  for  amateurs.  Ed. 20,  rev.  &  enl.  1914.  Hen- 
ley. 

Includes  miscellaneous  toys,  such  as  the  electric  dancer  and  the  magic  drum;  ex- 
periments with  magnets  and  static  electricity  and  the  construction  of  motors  and  dyna- 
mos. 

Sloane,  Thomas  O'Conor.  j  537.1  S63a 

Electricity  simplified,  with  an  appendix  containing  the  latest  dis- 
coveries in  electrical  theory.     1905.     Henley. 

Sloane,  Thomas  O'Conor.  j  621.307  S63 

How  to  become  a  successful  electrician;  the  studies  to  be  followed, 
methods  of  work,  fields  of  operation  and  ethics  of  the  profession.  1903. 
Henley. 

Smith,  Mrs  Anna  (Harris).  j  S642f 

Four-footed  friends;  stories  of  animals  and  children.     Ginn. 
Twenty-three  short  stories  teaching  kindness  to  animals.     Illustrations  from  photo- 
graphs. 

Smith,  Charlotte  Curtis.  j  8644b 

Bob  Knight's  diary  at  Popular  Hill  school,  with  sketches  by  Bob. 
Dutton. 

Bob's  experiences  at  school,  his  mischief  and  pranks;  also  his  pictures  of  Poky  and 
the  other  boys,  of  the  jack-o'-lantern  parade,  the  haunted  house,  etc. 

Smith,  David  Eugene.  j  511. 2  S64 

Number  stories  of  long  ago.     1919.     Ginn. 

How  boys  and  girls  in  centuries  long  past  used  to  count  and  to  write  and  about  the 
ways  of  representing  numbers  and  working  with  them  in  different  countries  and  differ- 
ent periods.     Also  includes  some  curious  number  puzzles. 

Smith,  Eleanor.  qj  372.2  S64S 

Songs  for  little  children;  a  collection  of  songs  and  games  for  kinder- 
gartens and  primary  schools.     Curwen. 

Contains  morning  songs,  marching  songs,  songs  for  games,  songs  of  the  seasons  and 
many  others  set  to  music.  Among  them,  The  north  wind. — Good  morning,  merry  sun- 
shine.— Little  white  lily. — Silver  moon. — We  are  little  soldier  men. — Did  you  ever  see 
a  lassie? — I  put  my  right  hand  in. — Flag  song. — Twinkle,  twinkle,  little  star. 

Smith,  Elmer  Boyd.  j  S646C 

Chicken  world;  drawn  by  E.  B.  Smith.     Putnam. 
Colored  pictures. 

Smith,  Elmer  Boyd.  j  S646C1 

The  circus  and  all  about  it.     Stokes. 

Sixteen  full-page  pictures  in  color,  and  others  in  black  and  white.     Descriptive  text. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  321 

Smith,  Elmer  Boyd.  j  S646f 

The  farm  book;  Bob. and  Betty  visit  Uncle  John;  story  and  pictures 

by  E.  B.  Smith.     Houghton. 

Picture-book  telling  of  a  summer  in  the  country  and  about  the  ploughing,   reaping, 

milking,  churning,  threshing  and  other  occupations  of  farm  life. 

Smith,  Elmer  Boyd.  j  S646r 

The  railroad  book;  Bob  and  Betty's  summer  on  the  railroad;  story 
and  pictures  by  E.  B.  Smith.     Houghton. 

"Bob  and  Betty  are  shown  the  parts  of  an  engine,  ride  in  the  cab,  and  in  an  over- 
land trip  learn  all  about  the  inside  of  the  cars."  Booklist,  1914, 
Large  pictures  in  color  and  others  in  black  and  white. 

Smith,  Elmer  Boyd.  j  S646S 

The  seashore  book;  Bob  and  Betty's  summer  with  Captain  Hawes; 
story  and  pictures  by  E.  B.  Smith.    Houghton. 

Smith,  Elmer  Boyd.  j  92  P732S 

Story  of  Pocahontas  and  Captain  John  Smith;  told  and  pictured  by 

E.  B.  Smith.     1906.     Houghton. 

Contains  26  full-page  color  plates  picturing  events  in  the  lives  of  the  Indian  maiden 

Pocahontas  and  the  gallant  soldier  Capt.  John  Smith. 

Smith,  Elva  Sophronia,  &  Hazeltine,  A.  I.  cotnp.  j  394  S64 

Christmas  in  legend  and  story;  a  book  for  boys  and  girls.  I9T5- 
Lothrop. 

Poems,  stories  and  traditional  tales,  including  The  Christmas  silence,  by  Margaret 
Deland. — The  first  Christmas  roses. — The  little  gray  lamb,  by  A.  B.  Sullivan. — The  star 
bearer,  by  E.  C.  Stedman. — The  flight  into  Egypt,  by  Selma  Lagerlof. — Legend  of  St. 
Christopher. — The  cross  of  the  dumb,  by  Fiona  Macleod. — Earl  Sigurd's  Christmas  eve, 
by  II.  II.  Boyesen. — Thesabot  of  little  Wolff,  by  Francois  Coppee. — Where  love  is,  there 
God  is  also,  by  Count  Tolstoi. 

Illustrations    from    famous    paintings. 

Smith,  Elva  Sophronia,  comp.  j  S6462g 

Good  old  stories  for  boys  and  girls;  pictures  by  L.J.  Bridgman. 
Lothrop. 

Contents:  Murdoch's  rath,  by  J.  II.  Ewing. — The  fairy  who  judged  her  n  ighbors, 
by  Jean  Ingelow. — The  fairies  of  the  Caldon  Low,  by  Mary  Howitt.-  The  immortal 
fountain,  by  L.  M.  Child. — -Uncle  David's  nonsensical  story  about  giants  and  fairies, 
by  Catherine  Sinclair. —  Mabel  on  midsummer  day,  by  Mary  Howitt. —  The  discon- 
tented pendulum,  by  Jane  Taylor. — The  prince's  dream,  by  .Iran  Ingelow.  A  legend 
of  the  Northland,  by  Phoebe  Cary. — The  king  of  the  Golden  river,  by  John  Rus 
The  pied  piper  of  Hamelin,  by  Robert  Browning.  -Anselmo,  by  Jean  [ngelow. — The 
leak  in  the  dike,  by  Phoebe  Cary.  The  triple  crown. — The  northern  seas,  by  William 
Howitt.  -  Oeyvind  and  Marit,  by  Bjornstjerne  Bjornson.  The  tiger,  by  William 
Blake. — Lariboo,  by  L.  M.  Child. — On  the  desert,  by  W.  \\  .  Story.  The -good-natured 
bear,  by  R.  II.  I  [orne. 

Smith,  Elva  Sophronia,  comp.  j  86462m 

Mystery  tales  for  boys  and  girls.     Lothrop. 

Contents:    The  gold-bug,  by  I-:.  A.  Poe.     The  last  buccaneer,  by  Lord   Macaulay. — 
The  goblin  of   Rummelsburg,   by  J.    A.    Musaus.     La    belli    dame   sans   merci,   b 
Keats.    -The  erl-king,  by  J.  W.  von  Goethe.-    St.  Swithin's  chair,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott. 

The  Bpectral  ship,  by  Wilhelm  Hauff.  The  haunted  house,  by  Washington  [rving. 
The  ghost-ship,  by  Thomas  Moore.  The  ballad  of  Carmilhan,  bj  H.  \\ .  Longfellow, 
Legend  id  the  Moor's  legacy,  by  Washington  [rving.     Alice  Brand,  bj  Sit  Walt< 

The  lime  of  the  ancient  mariner,  by  S.  T.  Coleridge.     Don  Roderick  and  the  magic 
tower,  by   Washington  Irving. — The  American   coracle,  by   Cromwell   Galpin.     Thomas 
the  Rhymer. — The  fisherman's  ring,  by  Selma  Lagerlof. —The  luck  of  Edenhall,  bj  J.  L. 
Uhland. — The  phantom  isle,  by  Giraldua  Cambrensis,     Hy-Brasail;  the  isle  ■  i  tla< 
by  Gerald  Griffin.     The  adalantado  of  the  seven  cities,  by   Washington    living       fhe 


322  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Smith,  Elva  Sophronia,  comp. — continued.  j  S6462111 

abbot  of  Inisfalen,  by  William  Allingham. — The  mysterious  champion  of  Hadley,  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott. — The  gray  champion,  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — The  admiral's  ghost,  by 
Alfred  Noyes.— Aslauga's  knight,  by  La  Motte-Fouque. 

Stories  and  story-poems  of  ghosts  and  haunted  houses,  hidden  treasure  and  strange 
enchantment. 

Smith,  Elva  Sophronia,  comp.     ■  j  808.8  S64 

Peace    and   patriotism;    selections    from   poetry   and   prose.      1919. 

Lothrop. 

Contents:  Patriotism. — Peace  and  international  good  will. — National  songs  of 
other  lands. — Service. 

Smith,  Eugene.  j  59°.7  S64 

The  home  aquarium  and  how  to  care  for  it;  a  guide  to  its  fishes, 
other  animals,  and  plants.     1902.     Dutton. 

Devoted  primarily  to  the  fresh  water  aquarium,  but  its  directions  will  be  equally 
useful  for  the  marine  aquarium. 

Smith,  Francis  Hopkinson.  j  92  S429S 

Captain  Thomas  A.  Scott,  master  diver,  one  who  was  not  afraid  and 

who  spoke  the  truth.    1908.    Amer.  Unitarian  Assoc.     (True  American 

types.) 

True  hero  tale  of  a  deep  sea  diver  and  wrecker.  He  had  charge  of  the  submarine 
work  of  the  Race  Rock  lighthouse  and  was  the  original  of  Caleb  West  in  the  author's 
"Caleb  West,  master  diver." 

Smith,  Gertrude.  j  S648a 

The  Arabella  and  Araminta  stories.     Small. 

Events  in  the  lives  of  two  little  girls  aged  four.  "Sometimes  Arabella  was  naughty 
when  Araminta  was  good,  and  sometimes  Araminta  was  naughty  when  Arabella  was 
good." 

Smith,  Gertrude.  j  S648ro 

Roggie  and  Reggie  stories.    Harper. 

Roggie  and  Reggie  are  the  little  twin  brothers  of  Arabella  and  Araminta  and  these 
stories  tell  what  they  did  when  they  were  two  years  old  and  what  they  did  when  they 
were  three  years  old.      Colored  pictures. 

Smith,  Helen  Ainslie.  j  920  S649 

One  hundred  famous  Americans.     1902.     McKay. 

Short  sketches  of  famous  Americans  grouped  under  the  callings  in  which  their 
most  important  work  was  done.  Contains  chapters  on  Inventors. — Military  and  naval 
commanders  of  the  Civil  war. — Pioneers  and  explorers. — Editors  and  journalists. — 
Business  men. — Scholars  and  teachers. 

Contains  also  an  article  on  the  Hall  of  Fame  by  H.  M.  MacCracken. 

Smith,  Herbert  Huntington.  j  S649I1 

His  majesty's  sloop  Diamond  Rock,  by  H.  S.  Huntington  [pseud.]. 
Houghton. 

Tom  Reeves  proves  his  mettle  during  the  siege  of  "His  majesty's  sloop  Diamond 
Rock,"  which  was  not  a  ship,  but  a  rock  off  the  coast  of  Martinique.  Period  is  the 
early  part  of  the  19th  century. 

Smith,  Mrs  Huntington.    See  Smith,  Mrs  Anna  (Harris). 
Smith,  Jessie  Willcox,  comp.  j  821.08  S65 

Child's  book  of  old  verses;  selected  and  illustrated  by  J.  W.  Smith. 
1910.    Duffield. 

Collection  of  quaint,  old-fashioned  poems,  such  as  Auld  Daddy  Darkness. — The 
pin. — Do  you  know  how  many  stars? — The  lark  and  the  rook. — Lady  Moon. — The  ant 
and   the  cricket. — Meddlesome   Matty. — Willie   Winkie.— Who  stole  the  bird's  nest? 

Ten  full-page  colored  pictures. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  323 

Smith,  Jessie  Willcox.  j  D551ZS 

Dickens's  children;  ten  drawings  by  J.  W.  Smith.      1912.     Scribner. 
Appeared  in  "Scribner's  magazine"  v.48-52,  Dec.   1910-Aug.    1912. 
Full-page  pictures   in   color   of  Tiny   Tim,    David   Copperfield,    Paul   Dombey   and 

Florence,   little   Nell,   Pip,   Jenny   Wren,   the   dolls'    dressmaker,    Oliver,   the   little   Ken- 

wigses,  the  runaway  couple,  and  little  Em'ly. 

Smith,  Joseph  Russell.  j  669.109  S65 

Story  of  iron  and  steel.     1913-    Appleton. 

Chapters  on  iron  ores  and  their  formation,  the  early  history  of  iron,  the  growth  of 
the  steel  industry  and  modern  methods  of  manufacture. 

Smith,  Mary  Cate.  j  9*5  S65 

Life  in  Asia.     1897.     Silver.     (World  and  its  people.) 

Geographical  reader.     Many  pictures. 

Smith,  Mary  Emily  Estella.  j  919-8  S65 

Eskimo  stories.     1902.     Rand. 

For  the  younger  children.     Large  print  and  many  pictures. 
Smith,  Mary  Emily  Estella.  j  9I4-92  S65 

Holland  stories.     1913.     Rand. 

"Suggestions  to  teachers,"  p.i53~i59- 

About  the  dikes  and  windmills,  the  canals  and  boats,  the  fishing  folk  and  the  sea, 
the  dress  and  customs  of  the  peasant  people,  and  the  keeping  of  St.  Nicholas  day. 
Stories  are  short  and  simple,  adapted  for  supplementary  reading  in  primary  grades. 
Illustrated. 

Smith,  Mrs  Alary  Prudence  (Wells),  (pseud.  P.  Thorne).  j  S6ssb 

The  Browns.     Little. 

A  winter  in  Cincinnati  with  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  Brown  family. 

Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence  (Wells),  (pseud.  P.  Thorne).  j  S655J 

Jolly  good  summer.    Little. 

Follows  "Jolly  good  times  to-day"  and  tells  how  Amy  Strong  and  her  little  friends 
spent  their  summer  vacation. 

Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence  (Wells),  (pseud.  P.  Thorne).  j  S655J0I 

Jolly  good  times;  or,  Child-life  on  a  farm.     Little. 
The   first   of  a   series.      The  other  volumes  are,   Jolly   good   times   at   school. — Jolly 

good  times  at  Hackmatack. — More  good  times  at  Hackmatack. — Jolly  good  times  to-day. 

— Jolly  good  summer. 

Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence  (Wells),  (pseud.  V.  Thorne).  j  S6ssjh 

Jolly  good  times  at  Hackmatack.     Little. 

Life  in  a  farming  town  among  the  hills  of  western   Massachusetts  about   1830. 

Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence  (Wells),  (pseud.  P.  Thorne).  j  S655J0 

Jolly  good  times  at  school.     Little. 

About  the  "spelling  down,"  tin-  coasting  on  the  cru-.t,  the  exhibition  and  other  good 
times  of  the  children   who  went  to  school  at  '  -    ' 

Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence  (Wells),  (pseud.  P.  Thorne).  j  S655jt 

Jolly  good  times  to-day.     Littk\ 
Good  times  of  a  little  girl  in  Cincinnati. 

Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence  (Wells),  (pseud.  P.  Thorne).  j  S6ssm 

More  good  times  at  Hackmatack.     Little. 
Tells  of  sugar-making.  Fast  day,  the  church  "raising,"  the  Tippecanoe  campaign  and 

other  events  in  the  lives  of  the  chihli  i  n  of    Hackmatack. 

Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence-  (Wells),  (pseud.  P.  Thome).  j  S6sst 

Their  canoe  trip.     Little. 
Two  boys  spend  a  lively  vacation  in  a  canoe  on  the  New  England  m 


324  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Smith,  Minna  Caroline.  j  9J7-3  S65 

Our  own  country.     1898.     Silver.     (World  and  its  people.) 

Geographical  reader.  Includes  chapters  on  New  England. — Lake  Ontario  and 
Niagara. — Illinois  prairies. — Kentucky  and  the  Mammoth  cave. — A  Texas  ranch. — 
Our  national  parks. — Salt  lakes  and  silver  mines. — Alaska. 

Smith,  N.  G.  Royde-.  j  821  S74U 

Una  and  the  Red  Cross  knight,  and  other  tales  from  Spenser's 
Faery  queene.     1905.     Dutton. 

Being  the  story  of  the  quest  of  the  Red  Cross  knight,  together  with  the  adventures 
of  Sir  Guyon  in  search  of  the  Bower  of  Bliss.     Many  illustrations  by  T.  H.  Robinson. 

Smith,  Nicholas.  j  929-9  S65 

Our  nation's  flag  in  history  and  incident.  1903.  Young  Church- 
man Co. 

Describes  the  different  banners  used  during  the  Revolution,  the  adoption  and  mak- 
ing of  the  "Stars  and  Stripes,"  and  many  events  with  which  the  flag  has  been  asso- 
ciated. 

Smith,  Nora  Archibald.  j  S655it 

Three  little  Marys.     Houghton. 

Contents:     Sheila  of  the  wall-house. — The  stranger  in  the   hedge. — Maureen  Bawn. 
Stories  of  little  girls  in   Scotland,  England  and  Ireland. 

Smith,  Nora  Archibald.  j  S6551U 

Under  the  cactus  flag;  a  story  of  life  in  Mexico.     Houghton. 
About  an  American  girl  who  went  to  Mexico  to  teach   English,   of  the  good   times 

she  had  at  the  quaint  Mexican  festivals  and  native  dances,  and  finally  of  the  untimely 

end  of  the  "Sisterhood  of  Spinsters." 

Snedden,  Genevra  Sisson.  j  S67id 

Docas,  the  Indian  boy  of  Santa  Clara.     Heath. 
About  the  life  of  the  little  Indian  children  who  lived  long  ago  in  California. 

Snedeker,  Mrs  Caroline  Dale  (Parke).  j  S6712S 

The  Spartan.     Doubleday. 

Historical  story  having  for  its  hero  the  only  Spartan  who  returned  from  Thermopylae. 
Leonidas,  Pindar  and  Parmenides  are  among  the  characters  and  the  battle  of  Platsea  is 
one  of  the  chief  events.     Gives  a  good  idea  of  life  and  customs  in  ancient  Greece. 

Soley,  James  Russell.  j  973-5  $68 

Boys  of  1812,  and  other  naval  heroes.     1888.     Page. 
Describes  the  victory  of  the  Bon  Homme  Richard,  the  burning  of  the  Philadelphia, 
the  sinking  of  the  Guerriere,  the  battles  of  Lake  Erie  and  Lake  Champlain,  and   other 
achievements  of  the  American  navy  from  its  beginning  in  1775  to  the  close  of  the  Mexi- 
can war. 

Soley,  James  Russell.  j  973-7  S68s 

The  sailor  boys  of  '61.    1887.    Page. 

Naval  engagements  of  the  Civil  war. 

Sousa,  John  Philip,  comp.  qj  784.4  S72 

National,  patriotic  and  typical  airs  of  all  lands,  with  notes.  1890. 
Coleman. 

Contains  not  only  such  familiar  songs  as  Hail  Columbia. — The  watch  o'er  the  Rhine. 
— Rule  Britannia. — The  harp  that  once  thro'  Tara's  halls. — The  Marseillaise. — Men  of 
Harlech,  etc.  but  patriotic  and  typical  airs  from  Japan,  Hawaii,  Cuba,  the  East  Indies, 
Mexico,  Persia,  Russia,  Philippine  islands,   Brazil,  Turkey,  and  many  other  places. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  325 

Southern  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j  S727 

Contents:  His  hero,  by  Margaret  Minor. — Jericho  Bob,  by  A.  E.  King. — How  we 
bought  Louisiana,  by  H.  L.  Coffin. — The  city  that  lives  outdoors,  by  YV.  S.  Ilarwood. — 
Queer  American  rivers,  by  F.  H.  Spearman. —  The  watermelon  stockings,  by  A.  C. 
Hegan. — The  '"gator,"  by  C.  B.  Moore. — The  earthquake  at  Charleston,  by  Ewing  Gib- 
son.— Hiding  places  in  war  times,  by  J.  H.  Gore. — St.  Augustine,  by  F.  R.  Stockton. — 
Catching  terrapin,  by  Alfred  Kappes. — "Locoed,"  by  Edward  Marshall. — A  divided  duty, 
by  M.  A.  Cassidy. — The  "walking-beam  boy,"  by  L.  E.  Stofiel. — The  creature  with  no 
claws,  by  J.  C.  Harris. ' 

Southey,  Robert.  j  92  N222S 

Life  of  Nelson,  with  an  introduction  by  Henry  Newbolt;  illustrated 
by  A.  D.  McCormick.     [1916.]     Houghton. 

Written  in  1813,  eight  years  after  the  death  of  Nelson,  "to  furnish  young  seamen 
with  a  simple  narrative  of  the  exploits  of  England's  greatest  naval  hero."  Sliaw's  Eng- 
lish literature. 

This  edition  has  18  illustrations  in  color. 

Southworth,  Mrs  Gertrude  (Van  Duyn),  &  Paine,  P.  M.  comp.  j  808.8  S72 
Bugle    calls    of    liberty;    our    national    reader   of   patriotism.      1917. 
Iroquois  Pub.  Co. 

Patriotic  speeches  and  poems,  beginning  with  Patrick  Henry's  "Give  me  liberty  or 
give  me  death"  and  ending  with  President  Wilson's  message  to  Congress,  April  2, 
1917  and  the  address  of  Robert  Lansing  on  "Democracy  ami  peace."  July  29,  1917. 
Speeches  are  arranged  in  order  of  time  and  each  has  an  introduction  giving  the  histori- 
cal se'.ting  and  significance. 

Southworth,  Mrs  Gertrude  (Van  Duyn),  &  Kramer,  S.  E.        j  917.3  S72 
Great  cities  of  the  United  States;  historical,  descriptive,  commercial, 
industrial.     1916.     Iroquois  Pub.  Co. 

Contents:  New  Y<>rk. — Chicago. — Philadelphia. — St.  Louis. —  Boston. — Cleveland. — 
Baltimore. — Pittsburgh. — Detroit. — Buffalo. — San  Francisco. — New  Orleans. — Washing- 
ton. 

Sowerby,  Githa.  qj  821  S73 

Childhood;  illustrated  by  Millicent  Sowerby,  written  in  verse  by 
Githa  Sowerby.     1907.     Duffield. 

Colored  pictures  and  verses  about  The  little  king. — His  book. — Eight  o'clock.— The 
good  queen. — The  shell. 

Sowerby,  Katherine  Githa.     See  Sowerby,  Githa. 

j  796.31  S73 

Spalding's    official    base    ball    guide,    1919.      Amer.    Sports     Pub.    1  '". 

(Spalding's  athletic  library.) 

Sparks,  Edwin  Erie,  ed,  j  910  S73f 

Famous  explorers.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library, 
new  ser.  v.9.) 

Contents;  tion  oi  1  anaan.      Discovery  of  the  gigantic  head.  The  winged 

human-headed  lions,  bj    V   II.  real  tower  of  [Hum,    \  street   in  the   Pei 

H  Schliemann  ies  in   Pompeii,  l>v  T.  II.    Dyer.     Exploring   an 

Mexican  palace,  by   l>     ■       ■  lorations  in  Gaul,      Not 

plorers,   by    Hauk  Erlend  0  Poll    in  the  1   ist.     The  first  explorations  of  Colum- 

bus.—  Pinzon  ol  Palos,  I>  th<  footsteps  of  Columbus,  by  Washington  Irving.  John 
Cabot  and  the  fir>t  English  voyage  to  America,  by  Raimondo  >li  Soncino,  The  third 
voyage  of   Amerigo    Vespuccio.      Discovery   of   the    P  1    Nuflez   de 

Balboa,   P01  I  ch,  bj    Washington  Irvine.      \   voyage  along  the  Atlantic 

coast,  by  Captain  John  Verrazano.      Discovery  of  the  Saint   Lawrence,  by  Jacques  Car- 
tier, — The  death  of  De  Soto,  by  "A  Portugal!  gentleman."     The  nan  iti 
tr.  by  G.    P.   Winship,      Exploring   Kansas  and  ptain  Juan  Jaramillo. 

An    English   explorer   in    Mexico,   b      Miles    Philips.      I  -it    the 

globe,    by    Franci      Prett         I  xpedition    I  Sir    Waltei 


326  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Sparks,  Edwin  Erie,  ed. — continued.  j  910  S73f 

voyage  to  Roanoake,  by  Captain  Arthur  Barlowe. — Champlain's  expeditions  into  New 
York,  by  le  Sieur  de  Champlain. — The  discovery  of  the  Hudson  river,  by  Robert  Juet. — 
Discovery  of  the  Mississippi,  by  Father  Marquette. — Niagara  and  the  Mississippi,  by 
Father  Hennepin. — La  Salle's  exploration  of  the  Mississippi,  by  Father  Zenobius  Mem- 
bre. — On  the  llanos  or  steppes  of  South  America,  by  Alexander  von  Humboldt. — Discov- 
ery of  the  Yellowstone,  by  Lewis  and  Clark. — -Among  the  Rocky  mountains,  by  Captain 
Fremont. — -Tasman's  voyage  of  discovery. — Voyage  of  the  Batavia,  by  Francis  Pelsart. 
—Exploring  in  the  South  seas,  by  Captain  William  Dampier. — Discovery  of  Tanganyika 
lake,  by  Sir  Richard  Burton. — Discovery  of  Lake  Ngami,  by  David  Livingstone. — Some 
wonders  of  the  North,  by  E.  K.  Kane. — The  seven  islands,  by  Sir  Martin  Conway. — 
Biographical  notes. 

Spaulding,  Frank  Ellsworth,  &  Bryce,  C.  T.  j  372.4  S72 

Aldine  readers;  book  one,  with  illustrations  by  M.  E.  Webb.  1916. 
Newson. 

New  edition  of  their  "First  reader." 

Spaulding,  Frank  Ellsworth,  &  Bryce,  C.  T.  j  3724  S73a2 

Aldine  readers;  book  two,  with  illustrations  by  M.  E.  Webb  and 
Nell  Hatt.     1918.     Newson. 

Contents:  Out-of-door  neighbors. — Once  upon  a  time. — Songs  of  life. — With  na- 
ture's children. — In  story  land. — Some  things  to  think  about. — With  our  feathered 
friends. 

New  edition  of  their  "Second  reader." 

Spaulding,  Frank  Ellsworth,  &  Bryce,  C.  T.  j  3724  S73b2 

Aldine  readers;  book  three,  with  illustrations  by  M.  E.  Webb.     1918. 

Newson. 

Contents:     Piper   stories. —  In    the   days   of   fairies. —  When   animals   talked. —  The 

fairy-tale  princess. — Stories  of  fortune. — Stories  of  real  people. 
New  edition   of  their  "Third  reader." 

Spaulding,  Frank  Ellsworth,  &  Bryce,  C.  T.  j  808.8  S73 

Fourth  reader,  with  illustrations  by  M.  E.  Webb.  1909.  Newson. 
(Aldine  readers.) 

Reading-book  for  fourth  and  fifth  grades.  Selections  from  Lewis  Carroll,  Ander- 
sen, George  MacDonald,  Joel  Chandler  Harris,  Riley,  Tennyson,  Longfellow,  etc.  A 
few  of  the  titles  are,  The  queen's  croquet  party. — Some  experiences  of  Baron  Mun- 
chausen.— The  heart  of  the  Bruce. — The  red  thread  of  courage. — The  charcoal  burner 
who  became  a  knight. — The  Inchcape  rock. — The  pied  piper  of  Hamelin. 

Spaulding,  Frank  Ellsworth,  &  Bryce,  C.  T.  j  808.8  S73D 

Fifth  reader.     1909.    Newson.     (Aldine  readers.) 

Reading-book  for  sixth,  seventh  and  eighth  grades.  Selections  from  leading  Ameri- 
can and  English  authors,  arranged  under  the  headings,  For  home  and  country.— Do  and 
dare. — The  traveler  on  his  way. — In  the  open. — Wit  and  wisdom. — Experience  and  ad- 
venture.— Service  and  obedience. 

Speaker's  garland,     v.1-9.     1904-06.     Perm  Pub.  Co.  j  808.8  S74 

Includes  numbers  1-36  of  "One  hundred  choice  selections." 

Spearman,  Frank  Hamilton.  j  S7411H 

The  mountain  divide.     Scribner. 

Story  of  the  building  of  the  Union  Pacific  railroad.  The  hero,  Bucks,  takes  part 
in  many  adventures  with  outlaws  and  Indians. 

Spenser,  Edmund.     Faerie  queene.     For  adaptation  see 

MacLeod,  Mary.     Stories  from  the  Faerie  queene j  821  874m 

Smith,  N.  G.  Royde-.    Una  and  the  Red  Cross  knight j  821  S74U 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  327 

Sperling,  Harry,  cotnp.  qj  790  S74 

Playground  book.     1916.     Barnes. 

Contents:  Singing  games. — Folk  dances. — Playground  athletics. — Playground  games. 
— Classroom  games. — Desirable  qualities. — What  recreation  means. — The  value  of  play- 
grounds.— Typical    playground    program. — Clubs. — Interesting    suggestions. 

"Books  for  playground  workers,"  p.103-105. 

Sprague,  William  Cyrus.  j  92  C886s 

Davy  Crockett.  1915.  Macmillan.  (True  stories  of  great  Amer- 
icans.) 

Crockett,  bear  hunter,  Indian  fighter  and  Congressman,  is  the  typical  American 
frontiersman.  This  account  of  his  life  is  given  partly  in  his  own  words  and  contains 
many  interesting  anecdotes. 

Spyri,  Johanna.  j  8772115 

Heidi;  tr.  by  H.  B.  Dole.     Ginn. 

Heidi  lived  among  the  Swiss  Alps  in  a  hut  with  her  old  grandfather.  She  climbed 
the  high  Alps;  picked  wild  primroses,  blue  gentians  and  yellow  buttercups;  herded  goats 
and  lived  on  goats'  milk,  cheese  and  black  bread.  She  had  many  exciting  experiences 
together  with  Peter,  a  herd  boy,  and  a  little  girl  from  the  city. 

The  same;  tr.  by  E.  P.  Stork,  with  an  introduction  by  C.  W.  Stork, 
illustrations  in  color  by  M.  L.  Kirk.     Lippincott j  S772I14 

The  same;  tr.  by  H.  S.  White.     Crowell j  S772I12 

The  same  [tr.  by  Marian  Edwardes],  with  coloured  illustrations  by 

Lizzie  Lawson.     Dent j   8772113 

Spyri,  Johanna.  j  S772r2 

Heimatlos;  two  stories  for  children  and  for  those  who  love  chil- 
dren; translation  by  E.  S.  Hopkins.    Ginn. 

Contents:     Lake  Sils  and  Lake  Garda. — Wiseli   finds  her  place. 

Stories  of  orphan  children.  The  first  tells  of  a  little  Italian  boy,  his  life  in  a  moun- 
tain village  of  Switzerland  and  how  at  last  he  found  a  home  and  friends  on  beautiful 
Lake  Garda.     The  other  story  is  about  a  little  Swiss  girl  and  how  she  too  found  a  home. 

Spyri,  Johanna.  j  8772m 

Moni  the  goat  boy,  and  other  stories;  tr.  by  E.  F.  Kunz.     Ginn. 

Other  stories:     Without  a  friend. — The  little  runaway. 

Stories  of  the  beautiful  Swiss  Alps.  They  seem  fairly  to  glow  with  joyousness  and 
are  full  of  breezes  and  sunlight. 

Stack,  Frederic  William.  j  580  S77 

Wild  flowers  every  child  should  know;  arranged  according  to  color. 

with  reliable  descriptions  of  the  more  common  species  of  the  United 

States  and  Canada.     1909.     Grosset. 

"Includes  many  simple  accounts  of  plant  and  flower  connection  with  history,  medi- 
cine and  legend,  together  with  bits  of  folk-lore  and  poetry."     Preface. 
Illustrations  from  photographs. 

Stanley,  Sir  Henry  Morton.  j  8787m 

My  Kalulu,  prince,  king  and  slave;  a  story  of  Central  Africa.  Scrib- 
ner. 

Stlim,  son  of  the  sheik  Ami  panies  lus  father  on  an  Ar.il>  expedition  into 

central  Africa,  is  captured  and  made  a  Blave.  The  story  tells  of  his  friendship  with 
Kalulu,  prince  of  the  Watuta,  their  escape  and  various  adventures  while  attempting  to 
reach  Zanzibar.  Based  on  knowledge  gained  during  Mr  Stanley's  Bearch  for  Dr  Living- 
Stone  in   1871-72. 

Starr,  Frederick.  j  9701  S79 

American  Indians.     1899.     Heath. 

About  the  sun-dance  of  the  Sioux,  Alaskan  totem  poles,  the  cliff  dwellers  of  the 
Southwest,  the  dress,  weapons,  games  an  Vmerii    n  [n 

dians.    The  author  is  (1908)  professoi  of  ai  thn  pology  at  the  University  of  <'hi. 


328  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Starr,  Frederick.  j  572-9  S79 

Strange  peoples.     1901.     Heath.     (Ethno-geographic  readers,  no.i.) 

Contents:  Introduction. — The  peoples  of  North  America:  Eskimo. — Wild  Indians. 
— Mexicans. — South  American  peoples. — The  peoples  of  Europe:  Fair  whites. — Dark 
whites. — -Basques. — Finns. — Lapps. — Turks. — The  peoples  of  Asia:  Chinese. — Coreans. 
—Tibetans. — Japanese.— Ainu. — Hindus. — Todas. — Andamanese  :  Mincopies. — Arabs. — 
The  peoples  of  Africa  :  Kabyles. — Negroes. — Negroids. — Pygmies. — Bushmen  and 
Hottentots.— Malays. — The  peoples  of  the  Philippines. — Melanesians. — Polynesians. — 
Conclusion. 

Stearns,  Albert.  j  S799C 

Chris  and  the  wonderful  lamp.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.22,   Dec.    1894-June   1895. 

Chris,  a  practical  young  American,  finds  Aladdin's  wonderful  lamp  and  turns  magi- 
cian. He  builds  royal  palaces  and  does  all  sorts  of  surprising  things  by  the  aid  of  the 
genie,  the  servant  of  the  lamp. 

Stedman,  Douglas  C.  j  S812S 

Story  of  Hereward,  the  champion  of  England.     Crowell. 
Adventures  of  Hereward,  the  outlaw,  who  defended  Ely  against  the  Normans  and 

became  the  avenger  of  the  English  yeomen.      Illustrated   by   Gertrude   D.    Hammond. 

Steedman,  Amy.  j  398.2  S81 

In  God's  garden;  stories  of  the  saints  for  little  children,  with  re- 
productions from  Italian  masterpieces.     [1906.]     Jacobs. 

Contents:  Saint  Ursula.— Saint  Benedict. — Saint  Christopher. — Saint  Catherine  of 
Siena. — Saint  Augustine  of  Hippo. — Saint  Augustine  of  Canterbury. — Saint  Cecilia.— 
Saint  Giles. — Saint  Nicholas. — Saint  Faith. — Saint  Cosmo  and  Saint  Damian. — Saint 
Martin. — Saint  George. — Saint  Francis  of  Assisi. 

Sixteen  color  plates. 

Steedman,  Amy.  j  398.2  S810 

Our  island  saints;  stories  for  children.     1912.     Putnam. 

Contents:  S.  Alban. — S.  Augustine  of  Canterbury. — S.  Kentigern. — S.  Patrick. — 
S.  David. — S.  Molios. — S.  Bridget.— S.  Cuthbert. — S.  Edward  the  Confessor. — S.  Co- 
lumba. — S.   Margaret  of  Scotland. — S.  Hugh  of  Lincoln. 

With  colored  pictures. 

Steedman,  Amy.  j  92<>  S81 

When  they  were  children;  stories  of  the  childhood  of  famous  men 

and  women.     Jack. 

What  45   famous  people  did  and  thought  when  they   were  children. 

Steel,  Mrs  Flora  Annie.  j  398  S8ie 

English  fairy  tales,  retold  by  F.  A.  Steel;  illustrated  by  Arthur  Rack- 
ham.     1918.     Macmillan. 
Sixteen  plates   in   color. 

Stein,  Evaleen.  j  811  S81 

Child  songs  of  cheer.     1918.     Lothrop. 
Simple  poems  for  the  younger  children. 

Stein,  Evaleen.  j  S819C 

The  Christmas  porringer.     Page. 

An  earthenware  porringer,  bought  by  a  little  Flemish  girl  of  Bruges  as  a  gift  for 
the  Christ-child  and  stolen  by  Robber  Hans,  finally  brings  much  happiness  to  her  and 
her  grandmother,  the  lace-maker. 

Stein,  Evaleen.  j  S8igg 

Gabriel  and  the  hour  book.     Page. 

How  the  "hour  book"  was  made  as  a  wedding  gift  for  the  lady  Anne  of  Brittany 
and  of  the  good  fortune  it  brought  to  little  Gabriel,  Brother  Stephen's  color  grinder. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  329 

Stein,  Evaleen.  j  S8igli 

The  little  count  of  Normandy;  or,  The  story  of  Raoul.     Page. 

How  the  little  ten-year-old  count  was  carried  away  by  robbers  and  of  what  hap- 
pened thereafter;  a  story  of  the  times  of  King  Charles   VI   of  France. 

Stein,  Evaleen.  j  S819I 

A  little  shepherd  of  Provence.     Page. 

Little  Jean,  a  lame  shepherd  boy,  aids  a  stranger  knight,  escaped  from  the 
dungeons  of  the  lord  of  Baux,  and  later  through  his  damask  roses  wins  fame  and  be- 
comes "rose-gardener  of  the  court."  Chapters  four  and  five  tell  how  the  peasant  folk 
of  Provence  kept  their  Christmas  600  years  ago. 

Stein,  Evaleen.  j  S8igt 

Troubadour  tales.     Bobbs. 

Contents:  The  page  of  Count  Reynaurd. — The  lost  rune. — Count  Hugo's  sword. 
— Felix. 

Steinberg,  Judah.  qj  S8ig2b 

Breakfast  of  the  birds,  and  other  stories,  from  the  Hebrew  by  Emily 

Solis-Cohen.     Jewish  Publication  Soc.  of  America. 

Jewish    legendary    stories,    and    fanciful    tales    such    as      "The    painter-lad    and    the 

princess." 

Stevens,  Charles  McClellan.  j  92  J329S 

Wonderful  story  of  Joan  of  Arc  and  the  meaning  of  her  life  for 
Americans.     1918.     Cupples. 

Stevens,  Ruth  Davis,  &  Stevens,  D.  H.  com  p.  j  811.08  S845 

American  patriotic  prose  and  verse.     1917.     McClurg. 
Arrangement  is  chronological  and  there  are  helpful  notes  concerning  the  authors 

and  the  events  commemorated.     Includes  Wilson's  memorial  address  of  May   11,   1914 

and   three  selections   on   the   European   war. 

Stevens,  William  Oliver.  j  359  S84 

Boy's  book  of  famous  warships.     1918.     McBride. 

Introductory  chapter  on  the  beginnings  of  warships,  followed  by  accounts  of 
famous  ships  and  of  naval  battles  from  the  time  of  Olaf  Trygvesson  to  the  E7  and 
the  Emden.  The  ships  selected  are  typical  of  different  periods  and  illustrate  changes 
in  naval  construction  and  warfare.      Illustrated. 

Stevenson,  Augusta.  j  793.1  S84 

Children's  classics  in  dramatic  form.     5v.     1908-12.     Houghton. 
Dialogues    and    little    plays.      Those    for   the   younger   children    are    most    of    them 

adapted   from   favorite  fairy   tales  and   fables.      Others   represent   dramatic    incidents    in 

the   lives   of   famous   men   and   women   or  are   adapted   from   such   stories   as   "Ivanlux-." 

"The  man  without  a  country"  and   Dickens's  "Christmas  carol." 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert. 

American   men  of  action.     See  his  Guide   to   biography   for   young 

readers. 

Same  work   published   under  both   titles. 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert.  &  Stevenson.  Mrs  E.  S.  j  821.08  S84 

1  I  Sutler  ).  comp. 
Days  and  deeds;  a  1 k  of  verse  for  children's  reading  and  speak- 
ing.    1906.     Baker. 

Useful  collection  of  poems  relating  to  holidays,  celebrated  Americans  rod  the  sea- 
sons of  the  year. 


330  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert.  j  920  S84 

Guide  to  biography  for  young  readers;  American — men  of  action. 
1910.    Baker.     (Guide  series.) 

Contents:  A  talk  about  biography. — The  beginners. — Washington  to  Lincoln. — 
Lincoln  and  his  successors.— Statesmen. — Pioneers. — Great   soldiers. — Great   sailors. 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert,  comp.  j  821.08  S84I1 

Home  book  of  verse  for  young  folks;  decorations  by  Willy  Pogany. 
1915.    Holt. 

Large  and  well  selected  collection,  including  not  only  the  well  known  standard 
poems,  but  others,  by  G.  K.  Chesterton,  Austin  Dobson,  Alfred  Noyes,  Laurence  Alma- 
Tadema,  Rupert  Brooke,  Henry  Van  Dyke  and  other  modern  writers.  Arranged  under 
the  headings  :  In  the  nursery. — The  duty  of  children. — Rhymes  of  childhood. — Just 
nonsense. — Fairyland. — The  glad  evangel. — This  wonderful  world. — Stories  in  rhyme. 
— My  country. — The  happy   warrior. — Life  lessons. — A  garland  of  gold. 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert,  comp.  j  811.08  S84 

Poems  of  American  history.     1908.     Houghton. 

Contents:  Colonial  period. — The  Revolution. — The  period  of  growth. — The  Civil 
war. — The  period  of  expansion. 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert.  j  S847t 

Tommy  Remington's  battle.     Century.     (St.  Nicholas  books.) 

Story  of  a  miner's  boy  with  a  thirst  for  knowledge,  who  has  a  struggle  to  decide 
between  supporting  his  parents  and  taking  advantage  of  a  great  opportunity  for  educa- 
tion. 

The  same.    Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition. ).j  S847t 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert.  j  S847VO 

Young  section-hand.     Page.     (Boys'  story  of  the  railroad  series.) 
Alan  West,  a  17-year-old  boy,  is  taken  into  the  section  gang  of  an  Ohio  railroad 
and  proves  his  mettle   in   the   time  of  danger.      Followed  by   "The   young  train  dis- 
patcher." 

Stevenson,  Burton  Egbert.  j  S847y 

Young  train  dispatcher.  Page.  (Boys'  story  of  the  railroad  series.) 
Alan  West  becomes  a  railroad  telegraph  operator  and  has  exciting  adventures  with 

robbers  and  train  wreckers. 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis.  j  S848b 

Black  arrow.    Scribner. 

A  Yorkist  story  of  the  Wars  of  the  Roses,  telling  what  befell  young  Master 
Richard  Shelton  with  barons,  men-at-arms,  and  the  outlaw  band  of  the  "black  arrow." 

The  same;  illustrated  by  N.  C.  Wyeth.    Scribner j  S848b2 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis.  j  821  S84 

Child's  garden  of  verses;  illustrated  by  E.  Mars  and  M.  H.  Squire. 
1902.    Rand. 

f  '  Forty-two  poems.  Among  them  such  favorites  as  My  shadow. — Pirate  story. — 
Foreign  lands. — The  land  of  counterpane. — Marching  song. — Where  go  the  boats? — 
The  wind. — The  lamplighter. — Foreign  children. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  J.  W.  Smith.     1905.     Scrib- 
ner  j  821  S84a 

Sixty-four  poems.  Full-page  colored  plates  and  decorative  drawings  in  black  and 
white. 

The  same;  illustrated  by  Charles  Robinson.     1914.     Scrib- 
ner  j  821  S84a2 

Sixty-four  poems.     Many  pictures  in  black  and  white. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  331 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis.  j  S848d 

David  Balfour.     Scribner. 

Sequel  to  "Kidnapped,"  in  which  are  set  forth  the  misfortunes  of  David  Balfour 
anent  the  Appin  murder;  his  troubles  with  Lord  Advocate  Grant;  captivity  on  the 
Bass  rock;  journey  into  Holland  and  France;  and  singular  relations  with  James  More 
Drummond  or  MacGregor,  a  son  of  the  notorious  Rob  Roy. 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis.  j  S848k 

Kidnapped;  memoirs  of  tbe  adventures  of  David  Balfour.     Scribner. 
How  he  was  kidnapped  and  cast  away  ;  his  sufferings  in  a  desert  isle  ;  his  journey 
in  the  wild  Highlands;  his  acquaintance  with  Alan  Breck  Stewart  and  other  notorious 
Highland  Jacobites,  with  all  that  he  suffered  at  the  hands  of  his  uncle  Ebenezer  Bal- 
four of  Shaws,  falsely  so  called. 

The  same.    Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edi- 
tion.)   j    S848W: 

The  same;  illustrated  by  N.  C.  Wyeth.     Scribner j  S848k2 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis.  qj  784.8  S84S 

The  Stevenson  song-book;  verses  from  A  child's  garden,  with 
music  by  various  composers.     1897.    Scribner. 

Partial  contents:  The  swing. — My  shadow. — My  bed  is  a  boat. — Pirate  story. — A 
good  boy. — Bed  in  summer. — Singing. — Where  go  the  boats? — The  land  of  Nod. — 
Foreign   lands. 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis.  j  S848S 

Strange  case  of  Doctor  Jekyll  and  Mister  Hyde.     Scott. 
Stevenson,  Robert  Louis.  j  S848t 

Treasure  island.     Scribner. 

Romantic  story   of   hidden   treasures,  buccaneers   and   adventures   by   sea   and   land. 
"If  sailor  tales  to  sailor  tunes, 

Storm  and  adventure,  heat  and  cold, 

If  schooners,  islands,  and  maroons 

And  Buccaneers  and  buried  Gold, 

And  all  the  old  romance,  retold 

Exactly  in  the  ancient  way, 

Can  please,  as  me  they  pleased  of  old, 

The  wiser  youngsters  of  to-day  : 

— So  be  it,  and  fall  on  1" 
The  same;  illustrated  by  N.  C.  Wyeth.     Scribner j  S848t2 

Bold,  full  of  color  and  action,  the  pictures  "catch  the  real  spirit  of  the  narrative 
and  swing  along  with  it;  they  carry  you  completely  away  to  the  world  of  'schooners, 
islands  and  maroons,  and  buccaneers  and  buried  gold.'  "     Outlook,  ign. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  Louis  Rhead.     Harper j  S848t3 

Many  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

The  same.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edi- 
tion.)   j   S848t 

Stewart,  Charles  West.  j  929.9  S85 

The  Stars  and  Stripes;  a  history  of  the  United  States  flag.  191 5. 
Boylston  Pub.  Co. 

"Noble  thoughts  about  the  flag,"  p. 70-80;  "Songs  and  bugle  calls,"  p. 81-89. 
Stewart,  Mary.  j  S8510 

Once  upon  a  time  tales,  with  an  introduction  by  Henry  Van  Dyke; 
illustrated  by  G.  M.  McClure.     Revell. 

Story  of  Prince  Scarlet. — The  princess  Meadowlark. — The  quest  of  the  wild  duolt, 
— Heather  fairies. — The  snow  queen  and  the  magic  bees. — The  discontented  mermaid. 
— The  enchanted  wood. — The  castle  in  the  clouds.-    At  the  foot  of  the  rainbow,  and 

other  stories  of  "once  upon  a  time." 


332  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Stock,  E.  Elliot.  j  793-1  S86 

Jim  Crow;  an  easily  staged  musical  play  in  one  act  for  boys  and 
girls;  founded  on  "The  jackdaw  of  Rheims,"  with  incidental  music 
composed  by  Ernest  Brumleu,  and  four  costume  plates  designed  by 
M.M.Johnson.     [1913.]     Heath. 

Stock,  E.  Elliot.  j  793-1  S86p 

The  pied  piper;  an  easily  staged  musical  play  in  one  act  for  the  chil- 
dren; written  &  adapted  from  "The  pied  piper  of  Hamelin,"  with  in- 
cidental music  composed  by  Ernest  Brumleu,  and  six  coloured  plates 
by  R.  C.  Armour.     [1913.]     Heath. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866b 

Bee-man  of  Orn,  and  other  tales.     Scribner. 

Other  tales:  The  griffin  and  the  minor  canon. — Old  Pipes  and  the  dryad. — The 
queen's  museum. — Christmas  before  last. — Prince  Hassak's  march. — The  battle  of  the 
third  cousins. — The  banished  king. — The  philopena. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  910.4  S86 

Buccaneers  and  pirates  of  our  coasts.     1905.     Macmillan. 

Contains  The  story  of  a  pearl  pirate. — The  surprising  adventures  of  Bartholemy 
Portuguez. — The  story  of  L'Olonnois  the  Cruel. — The  battle  of  the  sand  bars. — The 
pirate  of  the  buried  treasure,  and  other  tales  of  the  "black  flag." 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.25,  Nov.   1897-July   1898. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866ca 

Captain  Chap;  or,  The  Rolling  Stones.     Lippincott. 
The  shipwreck  and  rescue  of  three  boys  and  their  amusing  adventures   in   Florida. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866cas 

Casting  away  of  Mrs  Leeks  and  Mrs  Aleshine.     Century. 

Humorous  story  of  three  castaways  and  their  curious  and  amusing  experiences 
on  a  lonely  island  in  mid-ocean.  Contains  also  the  sequel  formerly  published  as  "The 
Dusantes." 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866f 

Floating  prince,  and  other  fairy  tales.     Scribner. 

Other  tales:  How  the  aristocrats  sailed  away. — The  reformed  pirate. — Huckleberry. 
— The  Gudra's  daughter. — The  emergency  mistress. — The  sprig  of  holly. — The  magi- 
cian's daughter  and  the  high-born  boy. — Derido ;  or,  The  giant's  quilt. — The  castle 
of  Bim. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866J 

Jolly  fellowship.     Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 6,  Nov.   1878-Oct.   1879. 

Humorous  story  telling  of  the  travels  of  two  boys  through  the  South  and  the 
Bahamas. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  914  S86 

Personally  conducted.     1890.     Scribner. 

Contents:  The  Romans,  but  not  Rome. — The  city  of  the  bended  knee. — Little  Pisa 
and  great  Rome. — Great  Rome  again.- — Around  the  bay  of  Naples. — In  Florence  and 
Venice. — A  mountain  top  and  how  we  get  there. — Queen  Paris. — King  London. — In 
English  country. — The  low  countries  and   the  Rhine. — The  people   we  meet. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.12-15,  Nov.    1884-March   1888. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866q 

The  queen's  museum,  and  other  fanciful  tales,  with  illustrations  by 

Frederick  Richardson.     Scribner. 

Other  tales:     The  Christmas  truants. — The  griffin  and  the  minor  canon. — Old  Pipes 

and   the   dryad. — The    bee-man    of   Orn. — The   clocks   of    Rondaine. — Christmas    before 

last. — Prince   Hassak's   march. — The   philopena. — The   accommodating   circumstance. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  333 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  504  S86 

Round-about  rambles  in  lands  of  fact  and  fancy.     1889.     Scribncr. 

Miscellaneous  collection  of  short  stories  and  anecdotes  about  a  great  variety  of 
subjects,  such  as,  The  largest  church  in  the  world. — -A  vegetable  gas  manufactory. — An 
ancient  theatre. — Geysers  and  how  they  work. — About  glass. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  974-9  S86 

Stories  of  New  Jersey.     1896.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Stories  of  historical  incidents,  chronologically  arranged,  connected  with  the  history 
of  New  Jersey. 

Partial  contents:  The  story  of  a  girl  and  a  hogshead. —A  Jersey  tea  party.— The 
man  in  the  "auger  hole." — The  story  of  Fort  Nonsense. — The  Morristown  ghosts. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866s 

Story  of  Viteau.     Scribner. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.io,  Nov.   1882-April   1883. 

Tale  of  castles,  brigands,  falcons,  monks,  squires,  fair  ladies  and  armored  knights. 
The  scene  is  in  France  during  the  period  of  chivalry  and  the  hero  is  a  somewhat  reckless 
lad  who  is  captured  by  a  robber  band  and  held  for  ransom. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866ta 

Tales  out  of  school.     Scribner. 

Short  stories,  hunting  adventures,  descriptions  of  places,  curious  plants  and  animals. 

Partial  contents:  Wonderful  adventures  of  Gutefundus. — Some  big  guns. —  Mag- 
har's  leap. — Tartar  horses  and  horsemen. — Land  of  the  white  elephant. — Foolhardy  Carl 
Hofer  and  the  water  lady. 

Stockton,  Frank  Richard.  j  S866t 

Ting-a-ling.     Scribner. 
Tales  dealing  with  giants  and  dwarfs  and  all  things  magical. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gbo 

The  boy  Lincoln.     Appleton. 

Story  of  pioneer  life  in  Indiana  and  of  the  boyhood  of  Abraham  Lincoln.  Some 
of  the  chapter  headings  are,  The  hunter. — The  new  home. — Horse-dealing.— The  country 
store. — Stump  speaking. — The  rail-splitter. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gcr 

Crowded  out  o'  Crofield;  or,  The  boy  who  made  his  way.   Appleton. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 17,  Jan. -Oct.   1890. 

Story  of  a  country  lad  who  went  to  New  York  and  fought  his  way  to  success  in 
the  great  metropolis. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S869U 

Little  Smoke;  a  tale  of  the  Sioux.     Appleton. 

An  Ohio  boy  follows  his  uncle  to  the  Black  hills  in  search  of  gold  and  is  captured 
by  a  band  of  Ogalallah  Indians.  He  escapes  just  in  time  to  see  the  terrible  defeat  of 
Custer's  command  on  the  Little  Pig  Horn. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S869I 

The  lost  gold  of  the   Montezumas;  a  story  of  the  Alamo.     Lippin- 

cott. 

How  the  daring  Texan,  James  Bowie,  learned  the  Becrel  of  the-  underground  temple 
and  the  hidden  treasure  of  the  Montezumas,  and  how  be  fell,  fighting  to  the  end,  tin- 
last  man  of  the  garrison  of  the  Alamo. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  923-8  S86 

Men  of  business.     1901.    Scribner.     (Men  of  achievement  series.) 

Coiifi-n/.c-    J.  J.  Astor. — Cornelius  Vanderbilt.     C.  L.  Tiffany.     John  Roach.     L.  P. 

Morton      I.  D.Morgan.     C.  W.   Field.     C.  M.   Depew       \    r.  Stewart     P.D.Armour. 

II.    B.  Claflin. — M.  <>.  Roberts.— G.  M.  Pullman.—  Peter  Cooper.—  Mar-hall   Field.— 

I  1  land  Stanford. 


334  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S8690 

On  the  old  frontier;  or,  The  last  raid  of  the  Iroquois.    Appleton. 

Adventures  in  western  New  York  during  the  Iroquois  raid  of  1778. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gr 

The  red  mustang.    Harper. 

How  Cal  Evans  of  Santa  Lucia  ranch  was  captured  by  a  band  of  Apache  Indians 
out  on  a  cattle-stealing  raid,  and  how  Dick,  the  red  mustang,  saved  his  life. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gre 

The  red  patriot;  a  story  of  the  American  revolution.     Appleton. 

An  Indian,  a  boy  and  a  horse  are  the  heroes,  and  together  they  do  good  service  for 
their  country. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gs 

Swordmaker's  son;  a  story  of  the  year  30  A.  D.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 23,   Nov.   1895-Oct.   1896. 

Boy  life  in  the  Holy  Land  in  the  time  of  Christ.  The  hero  is  the  son  of  a  Jewish 
swordmaker  who  takes  part  in  a  rebellion  against  the  Roman  authority. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gta 

The  talking  leaves;  an  Indian  story.     Harper. 

Story  of  a  white  girl's  captivity  among  the  Indians  and  how  she  escaped. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gt 

Two  Arrows;  a  story  of  red  and  white.     Harper. 

Indian  story.     Makes  a  plea  for  the  education  of  the  Indian. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gw 

White  cave.     Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.20,  Nov.    1892-Oct.   1893. 

An  English  family  lost  in  the  Australian  bush  and  a  convict  hiding  himself  and  his 
gold  are  the  principal  characters.  The  story  describes  the  various  gangs  of  white  and 
colored  men  who  are  following  the  trail  and  is  full  of  thrilling  incidents. 

Stoddard,  William  Osborn.  j  S86gwit 

With  the  Black  Prince.     Appleton. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.25,  Nov.   1897-Feb.   1898. 

Tale  of  the  English  invasion  of  France  in  1346,  of  the  bravery  and  nobility  of 
Richard  Neville  and  the  winning  of  his  spurs  side  by  side  with  the  Black  Prince  in 
the  battle  of  Crecy. 

Stokes,  Susan.  j  582  S87 

Ten  common  trees.  1901.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Eclectic  school  read- 
ings.) 

Contents:  Black  willow. — The  American  elm. — The  apple  tree. — -The  horse-chestnut. 
— The  birch  tree. — The  white  oak. — Chestnut  trees. — -The  little  walnut. — The  cone 
bearers. — The  red  maple. — Forests  and  their  preservation. 

References  at  the  end  of  each  chapter. 

Stone,  Gertrude  Lincoln,  &  Fickett,  M.  G.  j  gi7-3  S87 

Every  day  life  in  the  colonies.     1905.     Heath. 

Contents:  The  first  New  England  Christmas  (1620). — Dorothy's  hornbook. — A 
Puritan  Sabbath  (about  1668). — Soap-making  at  the  Howlands'. — When  the  Indians  fell 
on  Saco. — Candle-making  at  the  Coolidges'. — Telling  time  without  a  clock. — Two  letters 
of  long  ago  (1743). — A  May  day  journey  (1727). — The  poor  debtor's  children   (1733). 

Stone,  Gertrude  Lincoln,  &  Fickett,  M.  G.  comp.  j  808.8  S87 

Trees  in  prose  and  poetry.     1902.     Ginn. 

Legends,  stories  and  poems,  arranged  in  groups  according  to  the  species  illustrated. 
Intended  for  use  as  a  supplementary  reader.  Includes  a  list  of  historic  American  trees 
and  suggestions  for  additional  reading. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  335 

Stories  of  American  pioneers.     1897.     Educational  Pub.  Co.     j  923  S88 

Contents:  Daniel  Boone.  —  Meriwether  Lewis  and  William  Clark. — -John  Charles 
Fremont  and  Kit  Carson. 

Stories  of  chivalry;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century.  j  S884 

Contents:  "Richard,  my  king,"  by  L.  R.  Morse. — Elena's  captive,  by  C.  D.  Parke. 
— Count  Geoffrey's  crest,  by  C.  K.  Herrick. — Geoffrey  of  Monmouth's  dream,  by  S.  G. 
Stern. — The  field  of  the  Cloth  of  gold,  by  R.  B.  Nelson. — The  page  of  Count  Reynaurd, 
by  Evaleen  Stein. — Some  famous  Florentine  babies,  by  E.  R.  Pennell. — The  duke's 
armorer,  by  Gerald  Brenan. — The  children's  crusade,  by  Noah  Brooks. — The  goodly 
sword,  by  M.  S.  McKinney. — Ivanhoe,  by  D.  G.  Mitchell. 

Stories  of  great  men.     1895.     Educational  Pub.  Co.  j  920  S88 

Contents:  Columbus. — George  Washington. — William  Penn. — Israel  Putnam. — Ben- 
jamin Franklin. 

For  the  younger  children. 

j  938  S84 

Stories  of  Greece  and  Rome;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     1909.    Century. 

Contents:  Stories  of  Greece:  A  boy  of  Galatia,  by  Samuel  Scoville,  jr. — -An  old- 
time  philosopher,  by  Eleanor  Lewis. — The  Olympian  games,  by  G.  T.  Ferris. — Those 
clever  Greeks,  by  Arlo  Bates. — Venus  of  Milo,  by  M.  D.  Ruff. — Anecdotes  of  Grecian 
life,  by  E.  H.  House. — Stories  of  Rome:  A  Roman  boy's  birthday,  by  B.  E.  Bush. — 
The  noblest  of  Roman  emperors,  by  E.  C.  Lewis.— A  great  show  A.  D.  105,  by  Alfred 
Church. — A  youth  of  ancient  Rome,  by  E.  C.  Lewis.— Battle-ships  and  sea-fights  of  the 
ancients,  by  J.  O.   Davidson. 

Stories  of  the  middle  ages;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.     Century,    j  S8842 

Contents:  Felix,  by  Evaleen  Stein. — The  story  of  the  glove,  by  Mary  Dawson. — 
Bertholde,  by  M.  S.  Roberts.— The  ballad  of  Charles  Martel,  by  W.  H.  Hillyer.— Old 
time  arms  and  armor,  by  E.  S.  Brooks. — A  little  Florentine  lady,  by  E.  C.  Lewis. — 
"With  hawk  and  hound,"  by  N.  H.  Moore. — The  bell-towers  of  Italy,  by  John  Ward. — 
Books  of  olden  times,  by  C.  A.  Lynde. — Cap  and  bells,  by  II.  W.  Peirce. — St.  Francis  of 
Assisi.  by  E.  F.  Mosby. — The  Christmas  song  of  Csdmon,  by  B.  E.  Bush. — The  boyhood 
of  Michael  Angelo,  by  Alexander  Black. — The  shepherd-boy  of  Vespignano,  by  A.  E. 
Thomson. 

Storr,  Francis,  &  Turner,  H.  H.  j  821  C41C 

Canterbury  chimes;  or,  Chaucer  tales  for  children.     1895.     Paul. 
Contents:     Palamon  and  Arcite. — Constance. — The   cock   and   the   fox. — -Canace. — 

Dorigen. — Gamflyn. 

Illustrated  with   old  woodcuts. 

Storr,  Francis,  cd.  j  292  S88 

Half  a  hundred  hero  tales  of  Ulysses  and  the  men  of  old.  1910. 
Holt. 

The  tale  of  Troy  divine,  the  story  of  Pluto  and  Proserpina,  the  most  cruel  death  of 
Pyramus  and  Thisbe,  the  search  of  Cadmus  for  his  sister  Europa  and  the  snow-white 
bull,  and  many  other  myths  and  old  stories  retold  from  Homer  and  Sophocles,  Virgil 
and  Ovid. 

Stout,  William  Bushnell.  j  684  S88 

Boy's  book  of  mechanical  models.     1916.     Little. 

The  toys,  made  from  inexpensive  materials,  range  from  a  siren  whistle,  musical  in- 
struments and  animals  that  move,  to  a  grain  elevator,  a  railway  line  and  a  submarine 
boat.     Illustrated  with  drawings  and  diagrams. 

Stowe,  Mrs  Harriet  (Beecher).  j  S8g2do 

A  dog's  mission;  or,  The  story  of  the  old   Avery  house,  and  other 

stories.     Houghton. 

Other  stories  ■    Lulu's  pupil. — The  daisy's  first  winter.     Our  Charley.     Taki  care  of 

the  hook. — A  talk  about  birds. — The   nest    in   the   orchard.      The   happy  child. 


336  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Stowe,  Mrs  Harriet  (Beecher).  j  S892I 

Little  Pussy  Willow,  also  The  minister's  watermelons.     Houghton. 
The  first  story  is  about  a  little  country  girl  who  was  made  happy  by  the  fairy  gifts 
of  Mother  Fern,  pretty  Miss  Hepatica  and  Pussy  Willow.     The  second  gives  four   pas- 
sages in  the  life  of  an  academy  boy. 

Stowe,  Mrs  Harriet  (Beecher).  j  S8g2q 

Queer  little  people.     Houghton. 

Contents;  The  hen  that  hatched  ducks. — The  Nutcrackers  of  Nutcracker  lodge. — 
The  history  of  Tip-top. — Miss  Katy-did  and  Miss  Cricket. — Mother  Magpie's  mischief. — 
The  squirrels  that  live  in  a  house. — Hum,  the  son  of  Buz. — Our  country  neighbors. — 
Our  dogs. — Cogs  and  cats. — Aunt  Esther's  rules. — Aunt  Esther's  stories. — Sir  Walter 
Scott  and  his  dogs. — Country  neighbors  again. 

j  S8g7se 
Strange  stories  of  1812,  by  W.  J.  Henderson  and  others.    Harper. 

Contents:  The  broken  paddle. — Harold  White's  peril,  by  G.  T.  Ferris. — The  story 
of  Noel  Duval,  by  F.  S.  Palmer. — The  chase  of  the  "Hornet"  in  1812. — "Jack's  favorite;'' 
A  Yankee  smack  and  a  British  cruiser;  How  the  "General  Armstrong"  fought  three 
British  ships,  by  S.  G.  W.  Benjamin. — -The  "Constitution;"  The  "Constitution"  and  the 
"Guerriere;"  The  "Constitution"  and  the  "Java;"  The  "Constitution,"  The  "Cyane,"' 
and  the  "Levant,"  by  James  Barnes. 

j    S897S 

Strange   stories  of  the   Civil  war,  by  Robert  Shackleton  and  others. 
Harper. 

Contents:  A  boy's  impressions  of  the  Civil  war,  by  W.  J.  Henderson.— The  captain 
of  company  Q,  by  Robert  Shackleton. — Midshipman  Jack,  U.  S.  N.,  by  William  Drys- 
dale. — Captain  Billy,  by  Lucy  Lillie.- — The  blockade-runner. — Two  days  with  Mosby. — 
The  first  time  under  fire. — How  Cushing  destroyed  the  "Albemarle,"  by  Howard  Pat- 
terson.— President  Lincoln  and  the  sleeping  sentinel;  The  battle  between  the  "Monitor" 
and  "Merrimac,"  by  L.  E.  Chittenden. — Sheridan's  ride;  Lee's  surrender  at  Appomattox, 
by  G.  A.  Forsyth. 

Strong,  Frances  L.  j  570.4  S92 

All  the  year  round;  a  nature  reader.    4v.     1901-05.     Ginn. 

v.  1.     Autumn. 
v.2.     Winter. 
v.3.      Spring. 

v.4.     Summer,  by  M.  A.  L.  Lane  and  Margaret  Lane. 

Contains  chapters  on  plants,  insects,  spiders,  birds,  animals,  ocean  life,  coal,  etc. 
grouped  according  to  season.     Suitable  for  third  and  fourth  grades. 

Strong,  Frank,  &  Schafer,  Joseph.  j  353  S92 

The  government  of  the  American  people.     1901.     Houghton. 

Contents:  Township  and  county  government. — City  government. — State  govern- 
ment.— Origin  of  the  national  government. — The  national  government. 

Stuart,  Eleanor,  (pseud,  of  Mrs  Eleanor  (Hodgman)  Porter).    See  Por- 
ter, Mrs  Eleanor  (Hodgman). 

Stuart,  Mrs  Ruth  (McEnery).  j  S932S0I 

Solomon  Crow's  Christmas  pockets,  and  other  tales.     Harper. 

Other  tales:  The  two  Tims. — The  Freys'  Christmas  party. — Little  mother  Quacka- 
lina. — Old  Easter. — Saint  Idyl's  light. — "Blink." — Duke's  Christmas. — Uncle  Ephe's  ad- 
vice to  Brer  Rabbit. — May  be  so. 

Stuart,  Mrs  Ruth  (McEnery).  j  S932S 

Story  of  Babette.     Harper. 

Babette  is  a  little  Creole  girl  who  is  stolen  by  a  gipsy  from  her  New  Orleans  home 
during  the   Mardi   Gras  festivities. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  337 

Surridge,  Victor.  j  954  S96 

India,  with  reproductions  from  original  drawings  in  colour  by  A.  D. 
M'Cormick.     [1909.]     Stokes.     (Romance  of  history.) 

English  edition  has  been  issued  as  a  volume  of  "Romance  of  empire  series." 
Notable  events  and  picturesque  incidents,  such  as  the  exploits  of  Sivaji  the  Maratha 
hero,  the  fall  of  the  Mogul  empire,  the  invasion  of  Nadir  Shah,  the  deeds  of  Clive,  the 
struggle  between  the  French  and  English  for  dominance  in  India,  the  mutiny  of  1857- 
58  and  the  passing  of  the  East  India  Company.  The  period  covered  is  from  1646  to 
1858. 

Sutcliffe,  Mrs  Alice  (Crary).  j  92  F986S 

Robert  Fulton.  191 5.  Macmillan.  (True  stories  of  great  Amer- 
icans.) 

Life  of  the  inventor  of  the  steamboat,  written  by  his  great-granddaughter  and  con- 
taining many  original  letters.  Emphasizes  the  industry  and  perseverance  which  brought 
success  and  fame. 

Swan,  Helena.  j  929.4  S97 

Girls'  Christian  names.     1905.     Dutton. 

Gives  the  history  and  meaning  of  Christian  names,  such  as  Frances,  Margaret, 
Elizabeth,  Clara,  Isabella,  Harriet,   Flora. 

Sweetser,  Kate  Dickinson.  j  970.2  S97 

Book  of  Indian  braves;  illustrated  by  G.  A.  Williams.  1913.  Har- 
per. 

Contents:  Powhatan,  emperor  of  thirty  tribes. — Osceola,  war-chief  of  the  Seminoles. 
—  Sequoyah,  the  Cherokee  Cadmus. — King  Philip,  hero  of  the  Wampanoags. — Joseph, 
patriot  of  the  Nez  Perces. — Sitting  Bull,  medicine-man  of  the  Sioux. — Pontiac,  con- 
spirator of  the  Ottawas. 

Sweetser,  Kate  Dickinson.  j  920  S97 

Ten  boys  from  history.     1910.     Duffield. 

Contents:  Stephen  and  Nicholas,  boy  crusaders. — Peter  of  Haarlem,  the  boy  who 
saved  his  country. — David,  the  shepherd  boy. — Louis  XVII,  the  boy  king  who  never 
reigned. — Edward  the  Black  Prince,  the  boy  warrior. — Tyrant  Tad,  the  boy  in  the  White 
house. — Hugh  of  Lincoln,  the  boy  chorister. — David  Farragut,  the  boy  midshipman. — 
Mozart,  the  boy  musician. 

Sweetser,  Kate  Dickinson.  j  920.7  S97 

Ten  girls  from  history.     1912.     Duffield. 

Contents:  Jeanne  d'Arc,  the  Maid  of  France. — -Victoria,  a  girl  queen  of  England. — 
Sally  Wister,  a  girl  of  the  American  revolution. — Cofachiqui,  an  Indian  princess  of 
historic  legend. — Jenny  Lind,  the  Swedish  nightingale.  —  Eliza  Lucas,  a  girl  planter  of 
the  15th  century. — Lady  Jane  Grey,  the  nine  days  queen. — "Gentle  Annie,"  a  daughter 
of  the  regiment. — Madeleine  de  Verchcrcs,  the  heroine  of  Castle  Dangerous. — Adrienne 
de  Lafayette,  a  young  patriot's  wife. 

Swett,  Sophie.  j  Sg75ca 

Captain  Polly.     Harper. 

How  she  was  carried  out  to  sea  on  the  wreck  of  the  High-flier,  and  how  she  ex- 
posed the  conspiracy  of  a  secret  society. 

Swett,  Sophie.  j  S975H 

Littlest  one  of  the  Browns.     Page. 
How  little  Bee  took  care  of  the  baby. 

Swift,  Jonathan,  dean.  j  827  Sg7t 

Gulliver's  travels.      189.4.     Cranford  ed.      Macmillan. 

Contents:  A  voyage  to  Lilliput. — A  voyage  to  Brobdingnag.— A  voyage  to  1  aputa, 
etc. — A  voyage  to  the  country   of  tin-    Houyhnhnms. 

One   hundred   illustrations   by   C.  E.    Brock. 

Title  reads  "Travels  into  several  remote  nations  oi  the  world  by  Lemuel  Gullivei 


338  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Swift,  Jonathan,  dean — continued. 

The  same,  with  an  introduction  by  W.  D.  Howells  and  illustrations 
by  Louis  Rhead.     1913.     Harper j  827  Sg7g4 

The  same;  illustrated  by  Arthur  Rackham.     1909.    Dent. .  .j  827  Sg7g 

Twelve  full-page  pictures  in  color. 

The  same;  ed.  by  Padraic  Colum,  presented  by  Willy  Pogany.  1917. 
Macmillan j  827  Sg7g5 

Twelve  plates  in  color  and  other  pictures  in  black  and  white. 

The  same,  with  coloured  illustrations  by  Arthur  Rackham.  [1913.] 
Dent.     (Tales  for  children  from  many  lands.) j  827  Sg7g2 

Contents:     A  voyage  to  Lilliput. — A  voyage  to  Brobdingnag. 
Eight   illustrations. 

Synge,  Margaret  Bertha.  j  gio.g  Sgg 

A  book  of  discovery;  the  history. of  the  world's  exploration,  from 
the  earliest  times  to  the  finding  of  the  South  pole.     [1912.]     Putnam. 

Fascinating  account  of  the  world's  famous  explorers,  including  the  early  travelers 
to  the  East,  the  discovery  of  America,  explorations  in  Africa  and  Australia,  and  Arctic 
and  Antarctic  voyages.  Many  of  the  explorers  tell  part  of  their  own  story  in  their  own 
words.  Contains  reproductions  of  primitive  maps  and  the  "joyous  charts"  of  the 
middle  ages,  and  curious  illustrations  from  old  woodcuts,  drawings,  paintings  and 
miniatures. 

Syrett,  Netta.  j  Sggsc 

The  castle  of  four  towers;  illustrated  by  Stephen  Reid  and  D.  An- 
drewes.     Fenno. 

Benedetta  meets  a  mysterious  boy  of  the  castle  of  four  towers  and  hears  many 
strange  stories  of  old  Italy.     Colored  pictures. 

Syrett,  Netta.  j  822  Sgg 

Six  fairy  plays  for  children.     191 1.     Lane. 

Contents:  The  dream-lady. — Little  Bridget. — White  magic. — The  gift  of  the 
fairies. — The  wonderful  rose. — In  Arcady. 

Taggart,  Marion  Ames.  j  T134K 

Little  grey  house.     Doubleday. 

Home  life  of  three  young  girls.  The  story  tells  how  Rob,  "the  brave  daughter," 
came  to  the  rescue  in  days  of  trial  and  danger. 

Taggart,  Marion  Ames.  j  T134I 

Loyal  blue  and  royal  scarlet.    Benziger. 

A  story  of  '76.     Among  the  characters  are  Washington,  Arnold  and  Hamilton. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  920  Tiga 

Adventures  &  achievements.  1909.  Houghton.  (The  children's 
hour,  v.8.) 

The  mobbing  of  Garrison,  the  escape  of  Louis  Napoleon  from  the  fortress  of  Ham, 
the  burning  of  Washington,  Grace  Darling's  heroic  deed,  the  eruption  of  Mount  Vesuvius 
which  destroyed  Pompeii  and  Herculaneum  and  other  stories  of  adventure,  battle  and 
exploration. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  g20  Tig 

American  hero  stories.     1906.     Houghton. 

Contains  15  short  stories  of  war  times,  five  accounts  of  voyagers  and  explorers, 
five  colonial  stories  and  brief  lives  of  Daniel  Boone,  David  Crockett,  Christopher 
Carson  and  Abraham  Lincoln 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  Tig2b 

Book  of  humor.     Houghton.     (The  children's  hour,  v.13.) 

Short  stories  and  sketches,  and  extracts  from  such  books  as  "The  Peterkin  papers," 
"Emmy  Lou,"  "Rebecca  of  Sunnybrook  farm,"  "Rudder  Grange." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  339 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  821  C4icha 

The  Chaucer  story  book.     1908.     Houghton. 

Contents:  At  the  Tabard  inn. — Palaraon  and  Arcite. — Story  of  Constance. — 
Little  Hugh  of  Lincoln. — The  cock,  the  hen  and  the  fox. — The  revelers  who  went  out 
to  meet  Death.  — The  unknown  bride.  — Story  of  the  summoner.—  Patient  Griselda. — 
Cambuscan  and  the  brazen  horse. — The  promise  of  Dorigen. — The  priest  who  learned  to 
be  a  philosopher. 

Quaint  illustrations. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  Tig2d 

Dixie  kitten.     Houghton. 

"True  story  about  a  real  cat,"  who  begins  life  as  a  barn  kitten  and  becomes  a 
household  pet. 

Tappan,  Eva  March. 

Elementary  history  of  our  country.    See  her  Our  country's  story. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  942  T19 

England's  story;  a  history  for  grammar  and  high  schools  (to  1901). 
1901.    Houghton. 

Contents;  The  Romans  in  Britain. — The  Saxons  and  the  Danes. — The  Normans. — 
The  Angevins,  or  Plantagenets. — Kings  of  Lancaster  and  York.— The  Tudor  sovereigns. 
— The  Stuarts. — The  house  of  Hanover. 

Many  illustrations  and  maps. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  940  T19 

European  hero  stories   [Alaric  to  Napoleon],     1909.     Houghton. 

Contents:  The  barbarian  invasion. — The  forming  of  the  Germanic  nations.- — The 
Teutonic  invasions. — The  rise  of  nationalities. — Life  in  the  middle  ages. — The  crusades. 
— The  time  of  progress  and  discovery. — The  struggle  of  the  nations. 

The  same  (Alaric  to  Joan  of  Arc).     191 1.    Harrap j  940  Tiga 

Title  reads  "Heroes  of  the  middle  ages." 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  398  Tigf 

Folk  stories  &  fables.    1907.    Houghton.    (The  children's  hour,  v.i.) 

Contents:  Everybody's  favorites. — Stories  from  Germany. — Stories  from  the  shores 
of  the  North  sea. — Stories  from  Japan. — Stories  from  India. — Celtic  stories. — American 
stories. — Stories  old  and  new. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  tr.  j  398  Tigg 

The  golden  goose,  and  other  fairy  tales;  tr.  from  the  Swedish.     1905. 

Houghton. 

Other  fairy  tales:  The  giant's  house  with  the  roof  of  sausages. — The  simple-minded 
giant. — The  stolen  princess. — The  black  box  and  the  red. — The  little  wild  man. 

Tappan,  Eva  March. 

Heroes  of  the  middle  ages.    Sec  her  European  hero  stories. 

Different  edition  having  changed  title. 
Tappan,  Eva  March. 

In  feudal  times.     Sec  her  When  knights  were  bold. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  92  A392t 

In  the  days  of  Alfred  the  Great.     1900.     Lothrop. 

"I  have  sought  to  live  my  life  worthily,"  said  Alfred  the  Great.  This  book  tills  in 
story  form  about  his  early  life,  how  "at  twenty-two  In-  inherited  a  land  overrun  by 
savage  pirates, — a  restless,  ignorant  defenseless  land,"  and  how  he  fought  the  Danel 
and  restored  the  country  to  a  condition  of  peace  and  s.it 


34Q  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  92  E48st 

In  the  days  of  Queen  Elizabeth.     1902.     Lothrop. 

In  story  form  gives  a  life  of  the  famous  English  sovereign  who  "guided  the  ship  of 
state  with  most  consummate  skill  in  its  perilous  passage  through  the  troubled  waters 
of  the  latter  half  of  the  sixteenth  century." 

Illustrations  from  famous  paintings. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  92  V3i2t 

In  the  days  of  Queen  Victoria.     1903.     Lothrop. 

Life  of  the  "well-beloved  woman"  who  became  a  queen  at  eighteen  and  who  for 
nearly  64  years  wore  the  crown  of  Great  Britain.  "To  her  own  people  Queen  Victoria 
•was  England  itself,  the  emblem  of  the  realm  and  of  the  empire." 

Illustrations  from  famous  paintings  and  engravings,   and  from  photographs. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  92  W74it 

In  the  days  of  William  the   Conqueror.     1901.     Lothrop. 
Tells  of  his  boyhood  beset  by  dangers,  of  his  knighting  by  the  king  of  France  and 

of  the  after-deeds  which  made  him  famous. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  940.91  T19 

Little  book  of  the  war.     1918.    Houghton. 

Outlines  briefly  the  principal  events  of  the  European  war  to  Sept.  1918.  Chapters 
on  "Modern  methods  of  warfare"  and  "The  Americans  as  helpers." 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  Tig2m 

Modern  stories.     Houghton.     (The  children's  hour,  v.io.) 
Partial  contents:     The  king  of  the  Golden  river,  by  John   Ruskin. — Jackanapes,   by 
Mrs  Ewing. — Dog  of  Flanders,  by  Louisa  de  la  Ramee. — Rip  Van  Winkle,  by  Washing- 
ton   Irving. — -Wee    Willie    Winkie,    by    Rudyard    Kipling. — The    great    stone    face,    by 
Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — The  man  without  a  country,  by  E.   E.  Hale. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  camp.  j  604  T19 

Modern  triumphs.  1916.  Houghton.  (The  children's  hour,  v.14.) 
"Stories  of  exploration  and  discovery,  of  building  dams  and  bridges  and  railroads 
and  subways  and  canals  and  skyscrapers,  of  difficult  voyages,  of  the  good  work  of  the 
postal  service  and  the  express  service,  of  the  management  of  a  big  department  store,  of 
the  work  of  the  Red  Cross  in  flood  and  in  war,  and  of  the  marvels  of  the  telephone  and 
the  'wireless.'  "     Preface. 

Includes  "Adrift  on  an  ice-pan,  "  by  W.  T.   Grenfell. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  291  T19 

Myths  from  many  lands.     1907.     Houghton.     (The  children's  hour, 

v.2.) 

Contents:     Myths  of  Greece  and  Rome. — Myths  of  Scandinavia. — Myths   of  Japan. 

— Myths  of  the  Slavs. — Myths  of  India. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  398.21  T19 

Old  ballads  in  prose.     1901.     Houghton. 

Contents:  Saddle  to  rags. — Willie  Wallace. — Catskin.- — Robin  Hood  rescues  the 
lady's  three  sons. — King  John  and  the  abbot. — Forester  Etin. — False  Foodrage. — The 
proud  sheriff  visits  Robin  Hood. — -The  hireman  chiel. — The  demon  lover. — Robin  Hood's 
rueful  guest. — One  who  would  harm. — The  barring  of  the  door. — Tamlane. — Patient 
Annie. — How  Robin  Hood  served  the  king. — The  false  knight. — Earl  Mar's  daughter. — 
The  water  of  Wearie's  well. — The  queen's  champions. — Lizzie  Lindsay. — The  king  and 
the  miller  of  Mansfield. 

Simple  prose  renderings  of  some  favorite  English  ballads. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  T1920 

Old  fashioned  stories  &  poems.  Houghton.  (The  children's  hour, 
v.6.) 

Contents:     Old-fashioned  stories. — Poems  and   rhymes. — Stories   in   verse. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  341 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  909  T190 

Old  World  hero  stories.     1911.     Houghton. 

Contents:  Ancient  hero  stories:  Stories  of  Greece;  Stories  of  Rome. — European 
hero  stories:  The  barbarian  invasion;  The  forming  of  the  Germanic  nations;  The  Teu- 
tonic invasions;  The  rise  of  nationalities;  Life  in  the  middle  ages;  The  crusades;  The 
time  of  progress  and  discovery;  The  struggles  of  the  nations. 

"European  hero  stories"  has  also  been   published  separately. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  973  T19 

Our  country's   story;   an   elementary  history  of  the  United   States. 

1902.     Houghton. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Elementary  history  of  our  country." 

"This  book  aims  not  at  telling  stories  about  the  United  States,  but  at  giving  a  short, 

simple,    connected    account    of    our    country    from    its    discovery    to    the    present    day." 

Preface. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  590.4  T19 

The  out-of-door  book.  1907.  Houghton.  (The  children's  hour, 
v.7.) 

Stories  of  birds  and  animals;  also  tales  of  midshipmen's  pranks,  of  a  runaway  can- 
non, of  life  on  the  moon,  of  punishments  in  camp,  of  a  fireman's  and  a  steeple-climber's 
risks  and  dangers  and  of  what  happened  to  a  locomotive  that  had  lost  its  steam. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  821.08  T19 

Poems  &  rhymes.     1907.     Houghton.     (The  children's  hour,  v. 9.) 

Many  delightful  poems  arranged  under  the  headings,  Poems  about  children. — Story- 
telling poems. — Nonsense  verse. — Songs. — -Christmas  poems. — Poems  of  nature. — Poems 
of  our  country. — Poems  to  think  about. —  Other  poems. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  398.22  T19 

Robin  Hood,  his  book.     1903.    Little. 

Recounts  some  of  the  merry  adventures  which  befell  Robin  Hood  and  certain  others 
in  Sherwood  forest. 

"And  to  the  end  of  time,  the  tales  shall  ne'er  be  done, 
Of  Scarlock,  George  a  Green  and  Much  the  miller's  son, 
Of  Tuck,  the  merry  friar,  which  many  a  sermon  made 
In  praise  of  Robin  Hood,  his  outlaws  and  their   trade." 

Drayton. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  790  T19 

Sports  &  pastimes.     1916.     Houghton.     (The  children's  hour,  v. 12.) 

Includes  four  short  plays:  "The  enchanted  garden,"  "The  golden  goose,"  "The 
puppet  princess"  and  "The  spell  of  Christmas."  Among  the  other  selections  are.  Life 
in  a  girls'  camp,  by  A.  VV.  Coale. —  How  a  blind  man  enjoys  baseball,  by  Clarence 
Hawkes. — Fishing  with  a  worm,  by  Bliss  Perry. — How  I  killed  a  bear,  by  Charles  Dud- 
ley Warner. — The  lure  of  the  camera,  by  C.  S.  Olcott. — A  Russian  sleighride,  bj 
phile  Gautier. — Riding  on  an  avalanche,  by  John  Tyndall. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  T192S 

Stories  from  seven  old  favorites.  Houghton.  (The  children's  hour, 
v.5.) 

Stories  from  Pilgrim's  progress,  Robinson  Crusoe,  Gulliver's  travels,  Don  Quixote, 
The  Arabian  nights,  The  travels  of  Baron  Munchausen,  an  im  Shakespeare. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  880.8  T19 

Stories  from  the  classics.    1907.     Houghton,     (The  children's  hour, 

V.3-) 

Contents:    Stories  From    Herodotus.— Stories  from   I. ivy.     Stories  from  Ovid.     *  >  l .  l 
Greek  folk-stories. — Stories  of  the  Trojan  war.     The  wanderings  of  Ulysses,     Ulj 
Ithaca.     The  wanderings  of  the  Trojan  .1  1 


342  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  398.2  T19 

Stories  of  legendary  heroes.  1907.  Houghton.  (The  children's 
hour,  v.4.) 

Partial  contents:  Beowulf,  by  John  Gibb. — Arthur  is  chosen  king  and  gets  his 
sword  Excalibur,  by  Thomas  Malory. — The  institution  of  the  quest  of  the  Holy  Grail,  by 
Thomas  Malory. — The  death  of  King  Arthur,  by  Thomas  Malory. — The  story  of  Frithiof, 
by  Julia  Goddard. — Havelok,  by  G.  W.  Cox  and  E.  H.  Jones. — How  Ralph,  the  charcoal- 
burner,  entertained  King  Charles  and  afterwards  went  to  court,  by  A.  J.  Church. — -How 
Fierabras  defied  King  Charles,  by  A.  J.  Church. — The  battle  at  Roncevals,  by  Isabel 
Butler. — Siegfried,  adapted  by  M.  W.  MacDowell. — The  Spanish  hero  [the  Cid],  adapted 
by  Robert  Southey. — The  childhood  of  Rustem,  by  A.  J.  Church. — The  seven  adventures 
of  Rustem,  by  A.  J.  Church. — Rustem  and  Sohrab,  by  A.  J.  Church. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  504  T19 

Stories  of  nature.     1916.     Houghton.     (The  children's  hour,  v.n.) 

Includes  "Stickeen,"  by  John  Muir  and  "Turtle  eggs  for  Agassiz,"  by  Dallas  Lore 
Sharp.  Other  well  known  writers  represented  are  Charles  Dudley  Warner,  Burroughs, 
Olive  Thorne  Miller,  Bradford  Torrey,  Alice  Lounsberry,  Celia  Thaxter,  Thoreau  and 
Tyndall. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  938  T19 

Story  of  the  Greek  people;  an  elementary  history  of  Greece.  1908. 
Houghton. 

Includes  interesting  anecdotes  of  Greek  leaders  and  chapters  on  the  life  and  customs 
of  the  people.     Pictures  from  vase-paintings,  coins,  and  other  sources. 

Tappan,  Eva  March.  j  940.1  T19 

When  knights  were  bold.     191 1.     Houghton. 

Contents:  Page,  squire  and  knight. — The  knight's  arms  and  armor. — Jousts  and 
tournaments. — How  to  capture  a  castle. — Daily  life  in  a  castle. — Life  on  a  manor. — 
Pilgrimages  and  crusades. — Military  orders,  monks  and  monasteries. — Hermits,  friars 
and  missionaries. — Life  in  town. — Merchant  gilds  and  craft  gilds. — How  goods  were 
sold. — Schools  and  literature. — Science  and  medicine. — Architecture  and  the   arts. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  comp.  j  504  Tigw 

Wonders  of  science.     1916.    Houghton.     (The  children's  hour,  v.15.) 
The   selections   deal   chiefly   with    plant    life,   geology   and   astronomy.      Among    the 
authors   represented   are   Thoreau,   Kingsley,   Grant   Allen,   Alexander   Winchell,    Archi- 
bald Geikie,  N.  S.   Shaler  and  John   Muir. 

Tappan,  Eva  March,  ed.  j  909  T19 

The  world's  story;  a  history  of  the  world  in  story,  song  and  art. 
14V.     1914.     Houghton. 

v.i.     China,  Japan  and  the  islands  of  the  Pacific. 

v.2.     India,  Persia,  Mesopotamia  and  Palestine. 

v.3.     Egypt,  Africa  and  Arabia. 

v.4.     Greece  and  Rome. 

v. 5.     Italy,  France,  Spain  and  Portugal. 

v.6.     Russia,  Austria-Hungary,  the  Balkan  states  and  Turkey. 

v.7.     Germany,  the  Netherlands  and  Switzerland. 

v.8.     Norway,  Sweden,  Denmark,  Iceland,  Greenland  and  the  search  for  the  poles. 

v.9.     England. 

v.io.     England,  Scotland,  Ireland  and  Wales. 

v.  11.  Canada,  South  America,  Central  America,  Mexico  and  the  West  Indies. 

v.12-13.     The  United  States. 

v.i 4.     An  outline  of  universal  history,  by  Carl  Ploetz. 

Contains  many  bibliographies. 

Tapper,  Thomas.  j  927.8  T19 

First  studies  in  music  biography.     1900.     Presser. 

Contents:  Bach. — Handel. — Haydn. —  Mozart. —  Beethoven. —  Schubert. —  Mendels- 
sohn.— Schumann. — Chopin. — Wagner. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LTST  343 

Tarr,  Ralph  Stockman,  &  McMurry,  F.  M.  j  910  T2in 

New  geographies.     2v.     1916-17.     Macmillan. 

v.i.     Home  geography. — World  geography. 

v.2.  North  America. — The  earth. —  South  America. — Europe. — Asia,  Africa,  Aus- 
tralia and  island  groups. 

"References  to  descriptions,  in  prose  and  poetry,  of  topics  treated  in  this  geogra- 
phy, for  teacher  and  pupil,"  v.i,  p. 251-254;  "References  to  books  and  articles,"  v.2, 
p.41 5-423. 

Pennsylvania  supplement,  by  W.  W.  Rupert;  rev.  by 

J.  B.  Richey.     1916 j  910  T2in2 

Taylor,  Ann,  afterward  Mrs  Gilbert,  &  Taylor,  Jane.  j  821  T25a 

Ann  and  Jane  Taylor  [poems  taken  from  their  Original  poems  and 
Rhymes  for  the  nursery] ;  illustrated  by  H.  C.  Appleton  and  F.  D.  Bed- 
ford.     [1915.]      Stokes.     (Children's  poets.) 

Includes  some  of  the  simplest  and  best  known  poems,  such  as  "My  mother,"  "The 
star,"  "The  cow,"  "The  violet,"  "Meddlesome  Matty." 

Taylor,  Ann,  afterward  Mrs  Gilbert,  &  Taylor,  Jane.  j  821  T250 

"Original  poems"  and  others;  ed.  by  E.  V.  Lucas.    Stokes. 

Such  poems  as  The  little  fisherman. — Beautiful  things.— Meddlesome  Matty. — The 
last  dying  speech  and  confession  of  poor  puss. — The  cow  and  the  ass.— The  notorious 
glutton. — The  wasp  and  the  bee,  and  many  others. 

Contains  also  additional  verses  by  Adelaide  O'Kr.effe.  Colored  frontispiece  and 
other  pictures  by  F.  D.  Bedford. 

Taylor,  Bayard.  j  T25ib2 

Boys  of  other  countries.     Putnam. 

Contents:  The  little  post-boy. — The  pasha's  son. — Jon  of  Iceland. — The  two  herd- 
boys. — The  young  serf. — Studies  of  animal  nature. — A  robber  region  of  southern  Cali 
fornia. 

Stories  of  boys  in  Sweden,  Egypt,  Iceland,  Germany  and   Russia. 

Colored  pictures. 

Taylor,  Jane,  &  Taylor,  Ar.-.  afterward  Mrs  Gilbert.  j  821  T25 

Little  Ann,  and  other  puems;  illustrated  by  Kate  Greenaway.  Warne. 

Tennyson,  Alfred,  lord.  j  821  T2gi 

Idylls  of  the  king.     1904.     Macmillan. 
Contents:     The  coming  of  Arthur. — Gareth  and  Lynette. — The  marriage  of  Geraint. 

— Geraint  and  Enid. — Balin  and  Balan. — Merlin  and  Vivien. — Lancelot  and  Elaine. — The 

Holy   Grail. — Pelleas   and   Ettarre. — The  last   tournament. — Guinevere. — The   passing   of 

Arthur. 

Tennyson,  Alfred,  lord.  j  821  T29 

Poetic  and  dramatic  works.     1898.     Houghton. 

I'.i. graphical  sketch  of  Tennyson,  by  W.  J.   Rolfe,  p.11-17. 

Complete  collection  of  Tennyson's  poems,  with  a  biographical  sketch  and  illustra- 
tions. A  few  of  the  special  favorites  are,  Ulysses. — "Break,  break,  break." — Locksley 
hall. — The  passing  of  Arthur. — Crossing  the  bar. — The  May  queen. — The  be.jg.ir  maid.— 
"Flower  in  the  crannied  wall." — The  day-dream. — Enoch  Ardcn. 

Tennyson,  Alfred,  lord.  j  821  T29S 

Story  of  Idylls  of  the  king;  adapted  from  Tennyson  by  I.  X.  McFee, 
with  the  original  poem;  illustrated  by  M.   L.   Kirk.      [012.     Stokes. 

Full-page  colored  pictures. 
Terhune,  Mrs  Anice  Morris  (Stockton).  qj  784.8  T31 

A  Chinese  child's  day;  words  &  music  by  Vnicc  Terhune.  pictures 
by  A.  R.  Wheelan.     [1910.]     Schirmcr. 

Playing  the  samm-jim. — The  velly  good  dragon. — The  gi(\  flower,      I  ittle  bat  kite. — 
The   bobbing  mandarin. — Feast   of  lanterns.      Tin-   dream  junk,   and  other   ni 
children.     Colored  pictures  of   little  Chinese   boys   and  girls. 


344  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Terhune,  Mrs  Anice  Morris  (Stockton).  qj  784.8  T31CI 

Dutch  ditties  for  children;  15  songs  with  piano  accompaniment, 
words  and  music;  pictures  by  A.  R.  Wheelan.     1909.     Schirmer. 

Teuffel,  Mrs  Blanche  Willis  (Howard).    Sec  Howard,  Blanche  Willis. 

Thacher,  Mrs  Lucy  W.  comp.  j  821.08  T33 

Listening  child;  a  selection  from  the  stores  of  English  verse  for  the 
youngest  readers.     1899.     Macmillan. 

Poems  chosen  from  the  greater  English  poets  of  the  past  600  years.  There  are  bal- 
lads, fairy  poems,  songs,  poems  of  the  sea,  the  birds,  flowers,  etc. 

Thackeray,  William  Makepeace.  j  T333I1 

Henry  Esmond,  with  an  introduction  by  Austin  Dobson.  Cranford 
ed.     Macmillan. 

Story  founded  on  the  connection  of  a  noble  English  family  with  the  fallen  fortunes 
of  the  Stuarts.  The  hero  is  Henry  Esmond,  a  colonel  in  the  service  of  Queen  Anne,  and 
among  the  other  characters  are  the  young  and  lovely  Lady  Castlewood,  her  son  Francis 
and  her  daughter,  the  beautiful  Beatrix  Esmond. 

Thackeray,  William  Makepeace.  j  T333r 

The  rose  and  the  ring;  or,  The  history  of  Prince  Giglio  and  Prince 
Bulbo;  illustrated  by  Gordon  Browne.    Stokes. 

The  children  owe  this  delightful  nonsense  story  to  a  little  girl  friend  of  Mr  Thack- 
eray, as  it  was  written  to  amuse  her  during  an  illness.  The  rose  and  the  ring  each  had 
the  power  of  making  its  wearer  charming  in  the  eyes  of  any  beholder.  Naturally  as  they 
changed  hands  many  complications  arose. 

Thatcher,  Edward.  j  680  T33 

Making  tin  can  toys;  drawings  made  and  the  author's  models 
painted  by  Isabel  Thatcher.     1919.     Lippincott. 

Directions  for  making  mechanical  toys  and  useful  articles  such  as  trays  and  candle- 
sticks. Materials  required  are  plentiful  and  inexpensive,  and  tools  needed  few  and 
simple. 

Thaxter,  Mrs  Celia  (Laighton).  j  T339S 

Stories  and  poems  for  children.     Houghton. 

Poems  chiefly  about  birds,  flowers  and  children.  Also  contains  the  following 
stories:  The  spray  sprite. — -Madame  Arachne. — Cat's  cradle.— The  blackberry  bush. — - 
Bergetta's  misfortunes. — Some  polite  dogs. — The  bear  at  Appledore. — Peggy's  garden 
and  what  grew  therein. — Almost  a  tragedy. — The  sandpiper's  nest. 

Thibault,  Jacques  Anatole.     See  France,  Anatole,  pseud. 

Thomas,  William  Jenkyn,  comp.  j  398  T37 

Welsh  fairy  book.     [1907.]     Stokes. 

Many  stories  of  the  "fair  family"  of  Wales,  of  changeling  children  and  hidden 
treasure,  of  magic  and  enchantment. 

Thompson,  Arthur  R.  j  T3793g 

Gold-seeking  on  the  Dalton  trail;  the  adventures  of  two  New  Eng- 
land boys  in  Alaska  and  the  Northwest  territory.     Little. 

Prospecting  for  gold,  hunting  episodes,  snow-shoe  trips  and  other  incidents  of  trail 
life,  drawn  largely  from  personal  experiences.     Illustrated  with  photographs. 

Thompson,  Charles  Miner.  j  T379C 

Calico  cat.     Houghton. 
Rural  detective  story  of  a  cat,  a  boy,  and  a  grand  jury. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  345 

Thompson,  Daniel  Pierce.  j  T37gig 

Green  mountain  boys.    2v.  in  1.    Burt. 

How  Fort  Ticonderoga  was  captured  and  other  exploits  of  Ethan  Allen  and  the 
"Green  mountain  boys"  during  the  exciting  contest  for  the  New  Hampshire  grants  and 
in  the  War  of  the  revolution. 

Thompson,  Ernest  Evan  Seton.    See  Seton,  Ernest  Thompson. 

Thompson,  Mrs  Jeanette  May.  j  551.57  T38 

Water  wonders  every  child  should  know;  little  studies  of  dew,  frost, 

snow,  ice  and  rain.     1907.     Grosset.     (Every  child  should  know  series.) 

Contents:  When  the  dew  falls. — The  coming  of  the  hoar  frost. — Etchings  by  Jack 
Frost. — Mysteries  and  beauties  of  the  snow. — Ice  and  its  formation. — The  beneficent 
rain. 

Especially  valuable  for  the  many  beautiful  photographic  illustrations. 

Thompson,  John  Gilbert,  &  Thompson,  T.  E.  j  372.4  T38f 

Fairy  tale  and  fable;  an  introduction  to  literature  and  art.  1895. 
Silver.     (New  century  readers,  second  year.) 

Thompson,  John  Gilbert,  &  Thompson,  T.  E.  j  372.4  T38 

For  childhood  days.  1903.  Silver.  (New  century  readers,  first 
year.) 

Primer  made  up  of  bits  of  nursery  rhymes  and  stories.     Colored  pictures. 

Thompson,  Maurice,  ed.  j  796  T38b 

Boys'  book  of  sports  and  outdoor  life.     1896.     Century. 
Contents:      Marvin    and    his     boy     hunters. — Hints    on    trap-shooting. — Fishing. — 

Archery. — Boats    and    boating. — Camps    and     campers. — Swimming     and     walking. — The 

camera. — Winter  sport. — Outdoor  sketches. 

Many  of  these  articles  appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas." 

Thomsen,  Mrs  Gudrun  Thorne-.     See  Thorne-Thomsen,  Mrs  Gudrun. 

Thomson,  John  Stuart.  j  915. 1  T38 

Bud  and  Bamboo.     1912.     Appleton.     (Stories  of  primitive  life  for 

primary  grades.) 

About  a  Chinese  boy  and  girl,  their  work  and  play,  home  and  school  life. 

Thomson,  M.  Pearson.  j  91489  T38 

Denmark,  with  illustrations  by  F.  I.  Hyldahl.  1910.  Black.  (Peeps 
at  many  lands  series.) 

Chapters  on  merry  Copenhagen. — Hans  Andersen. — Legendary  lore  and  folk  dances. 
— The  people's  amusements. — Farm  life. — Soldiers  and  sailors. — Fishermen  at  home  and 
afloat. — Youthful   Danes  at  work   and  play. — Ingeborg's   journey  through   Seeland. 

Thoreau,  Henry  David.  j  91741  T39 

Canoeing  in  the  wilderness;  ed.  by  Clifton  Johnson;  illustrated  by 
Will  Hammell.     1916.     Houghton. 

Record  of  an  excursion  into  the  Maine  w Is  in   [857.      Chi    route  was  by  « 

Moosehead  lake,  returning  by  the  cast  branch  of  the    Penobscot,     Thoreau   was 
panied  only  by  one   friend  and  an    [ndian    guide.     This  account,    abridged    from  "The 
Maine  woods,"  gives  minute  descriptions  of  the  routine  ol  1  imping  1  nd  oi  the  voyagers' 
experiences. 

Thorne,  P.  pseud.    See  Smith,  Mrs  Mary  Prudence  (Wells). 

Thorne-Thomsen,  Mrs  Gudrun,  tr.  j  T4iib 

The  birch  and  the  star,  and  other  stories.     Row. 

Other  stories:      ViggO   and    I',.  .it..       I'.ikkit    Malti. 

Stories  of  child  life  in  northern  lands,  retold  from  the  Norwegian  oi  lorgen  M  * 
and  the  Swedish  of  Zacharias  Topelius.     For  the  younger  children. 


346  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Thorne-Thomsen,  Mrs  Gudrun,  ed.  j  398  T411 

East  o'  the  sun  and  west  o'  the  moon,  with  other  Norwegian  folk 
tales,  retold.    1912.    Row. 

Some  of  the  best  and  most  popular  Norwegian  fairy  tales,  including  Three  billy 
goats  gruff. — Boots  and  his  brothers. — The  lad  who  went  to  the  North  Wind. — The  pan- 
cake.— Why  the  sea  is  salt. — The  squire's  bride. — The  princess  on  the  glass  hill. — The 
husband  who  was  to  mind  the  house. 

All  these  stories  have  been  told  to  children  by  the  editor  many  times  and  retain 
much  of  the  original  folklore  language  and  the  conversational  style  of  the  teller  of  tales. 

Thorpe,  Charlotte.  qj  914.21  T41 

Children's  London.     Leadenhall  Press. 

Contents:  Tower  of  London. — Foundling  hospital. — Zoological  gardens. — National 
gallery. — From  Whitehall  to  St.  -Paul's. — Westminster  abbey. — Madame  Tussaud's  exhi- 
bition.— British  museum. — Natural  history  museum. — Houses  of  parliament. — Christ's 
hospital. — St.  Paul's  cathedral. — A  city  walk. — The  prince  consort's  memorial. 

Many  pictures.  .  m 

J  9IO.4  T42 

Three  years  behind  the  guns;  the  true  chronicles  of  a  "diddy-box,"  by 
L.  G.  T.     1908.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

Diary  of  a  boy  who  served  on  the  U.  S.  S.  Olympia  in  the  cruise  that  ended  with 
the  battle  of  Manila  bay.     Interesting  as  a  record  of  daily  life  on  board  a  war-ship. 

Thurston,  Ida  T.  j  T435b 

The  bishop's  shadow.     Revell. 

A  newsboy  story. 

Tidy,  Charles  Meymott.  j  536.46  T44 

Story  of  a  tinder-box;  lectures  delivered  1888-89.  1897.  Soc.  for 
Promoting  Christian  Knowledge.     (Romance  of  science  series.) 

History  of  the  methods  of  producing  fire. 

Tiffany,  Mrs  Nina  (Moore).  j  973.3  T45 

From  colony  to  commonwealth.     1897.     Ginn. 

Stories  of  Revolutionary  days  in  Boston.  A  continuation  of  "Pilgrims  and  Puri- 
tans." 

Tiffany,  Mrs  Nina  (Moore).  j  974.4  T45 

Pilgrims  and  Puritans;  the  story  of  the  planting  of  Plymouth  and 

Boston.     1896.     Ginn. 

Adap'.ed  from  the  personal  narrative  of  Bradford  and  Winslow  and  from  Winthrop's 

journal.     Maps  and  notes. 

Tileston,  Mrs  Mary  Wilder  (Foote),  comp.  j  821.08  T46C 

Children's  book  of  ballads.     1883.    Little. 

Stirring  ballads  of  heroism  and  adventure,  such  as  Horatius. — Sir  Patrick  Spens. — 
Bannockburn. — Flodden  Field. — Kinmont  Willie. — The  burial-march  of  Dundee. — Song 
of  Marion's  men. — The  red  thread  of  honor. — Sheridan's  ride. 

Tileston,  Mrs  Mary  Wilder  (Foote),  comp.  j  3g8.8  T46 

Children's  hour  [poems].     1899.     Little. 

Mother  Goose  rhymes  and  simple  poems,  such  as  Good-night  and  good-morning. — A 
visit  from  St.  Nicholas. — The  little  kitty. — Thank  you,  pretty  cow.  Also  contains  the 
stories  of  "The  three  bears,"  "Henny-penny"  and  "The  old  woman  and  her  pig." 

Tileston,  Mrs  Mary  Wilder  (Foote),  comp.  j  821.08  T46ch 

Child's  harvest  of  verse.     1910.    Little. 

Two  hundred  poems  and  verses.  Among  them  are  fairy  poems,  such  as  "The 
culprit  fay,"  "The  leprecaun;  or,  Fairy  shoemaker"  and  "The  fairies  of  the  Caldon- 
Low;"  poems  about  birds  and  animals  and  about  children's  "doings  and  thinkings,"  and 
humorous  poems,  such  as  "The  deacon's  masterpiece;  or,  The  one-hoss  shay,"  "John 
Gilpin"  and  "The  pobble  who  has  no  toes." 

Author,  title  and  first  line  indexes. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  347 

Tileston,  Mrs  Mary  Wilder  (Foote),  conif.  j  821.08  T46S2 

Sugar  and  spice  and  all  that's  nice  [verses].     1910.     Little. 

Mother  Goose  melodies  and  the  favorite  verses  and  stories  which  little  children  like 
to  hear  over  and  over  again.  An  enlarged  edition  of  the  "Children's  hour." 

Tisdale,  Lieu. 

Three  years  behind  the  guns.     Sec  Three  years  behind  the  guns. 

Tit,  Tom,  pseud.    See  Good,  Arthur. 

Toal,  Josephine  E.  j  92  B7i3t 

A  boy  who  loved  the  stars;  biographic  sketch  of  John  Alfred  Bra- 
shear.     [1916.] 

November  birthday  story  from  "Normal  instructor  and  primary  plan"  magazine, 
reprinted  for  use  of  the  Pittsburgh  public  schools. 

Tolman,  Mrs  Stella  Webster  (Carroll).     See  Carroll,  Stella  Webster. 

Tolstoi,  Lyof  Nikolaievitch,  count.  j  Ts88to 

Tolstoi  for  the  young;  select  tales  from  Tolstoi;  tr.  from  the  Russian 

by  Mrs  R.  S.  Townsend,  with  coloured  plates  by  Michel  Sevier.     Paul. 

Contents:  Ivan  the  fool. — Where  there  is  love,  there  is  God  also. — A  prisoner. — 
Emelian  and  the  empty  drum. — The  great  bear. — Three  questions. — The  godson. 

Tolstoi',  Lyof  Nikolaievitch,  count.  j  T588W 

What  men  live  by.    Crowell. 

Short  story  teaching  the  lesson  of  brotherly  love. 

Tolstoi,  Lyof  Nikolaievitch,  count.  j  Ts88wh 

Where  love  is,  there  God  is  also;  tr.  by  N.  H.  Dole.     Crowell. 

Beautiful  story  of  a  Russian  shoemaker  and  how  his  dream  that  the  Saviour  would 
come  to  him  was  fulfilled. 

Tomlins,  William  Lawrence,  cd.  qj  784.8  T59C 

Children's  souvenir  song  book.     1893.     Novello. 

Some  delightful  children's  songs  by  Richard  Watson  Gilder,  George  William  Curtis, 
Celia  Thaxter,  Elsie  Cooley  and  other  writers,  set  to  music.  Many  of  them  were  sung 
by  the  children's  chorus  at  the  World's  Columbian  Exposition. 

Tomlins,  William  Lawrence,  cd.  qj  783.6  T59 

Christmas  carols,  ancient  and  modern  [words  and  music].  1897. 
Amer.  Book  Co. 

Among  them,  The  manger  throne. — Sleep,  holy  babe.  —  Bethlehem.-  -A  Tyrolese 
carol. — Nowel!   Nowel! — Hymn   for   Christmas   day. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titswortli.  j  Ts97b 

Boy  officers  of  1812.     Lothrop.     (War  of  1812  series.) 

Experiences  of  four  boys  on  and  about  Lake  Erie. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titswortli.  j  T597bo 

Boy  soldiers  of  1812.     Lothrop.     (War  of  [812  series.) 

Tom  Garnet's  experiences  with  tin    "pn 
Tomlinson,  Everett  Titswortli.  j  T597bw 

Boys  with  Old  Hickory.     Lothrop.     (War  of  [8l2  serii 
Last  volume  of  the  War  of  it  It  ends  with  the  battle  of  New  Orleans. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titswortli.  j  T597C 

Camping  on  the  St.  Laurence;  or,  On  the  trail  of  the  early  dis- 
coverers.    Lothrop. 

Summer  vacation  of  four  boys  in  imp. 


348  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597cr 

Cruising  on  the  St.  Lawrence;  a  summer  vacation  in  historic  waters. 
Lothrop. 

Third  in  the  St.  Lawrence  series.  The  four  friends  spend  another  summer  cruising 
on  the  St.  Lawrence  and  visiting  places  of  historic  interest. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597g 

Guarding  the  border;  or,  The  boys  of  the  Great  lakes.     Lothrop. 

(War  of  1812  series.) 

Story  of  the  Canadian  border  during  the  time  when  the  Great  lakes  were  the  scene 

of  naval  battles  and  brilliant  victories.     Gen.  Scott,  the  hero  of  Lundy's  Lane,  is  one  of 

the  characters. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597h 

House-boat  on  the  St.  Lawrence.     Lothrop. 

Follows  "Camping  on  the  St.  Lawrence"  and  relates  the  experiences  of  the  four 
college  friends  in  their  second  summer  on  the  historic  waters  of  the  St.  Lawrence. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597111 

Marching  against  the  Iroquois.     Houghton. 

Expedition  of  Gen.  Sullivan  into  the  country  of  the  Iroquois  in  1779  and  the  ex- 
periences of  a  young  member  of  the  militia. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597S 

Search  for  Andrew  Field.     Lothrop.     (War  of  1812  series.) 

How  Andrew  Field  was  "pressed"  and  how  his  brother  David  set  out  to  search  for 
him  and  had  many  adventures  and  escapes.  First  of  the  War  of  181 2  series.  Followed 
by  "Boy  soldiers  of  1812,"  "Boy  officers  of  1812,"  "Tecumseh's  young  braves,"  "Guard- 
ing the  border"  and  "Boys  with  Old  Hickory." 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  92  P447t 

Story  of  General  Pershing.     1919.     Appleton. 

Presents  "the  simple  story  of  the  struggles  and  achievements  of  a.  .  .typically  suc- 
cessful American."     Nearly  half  of  the  book  deals  with  the  European  war. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597te 

Tecumseh's  young  braves;  a  story  of  the  Creek  war.  Lothrop. 
(War  of  1812  series.) 

Struggle  with  the  Creek  Indians   during  the  War  of   1812. 
The  same.     Grosset.      (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edi- 
tion.)   j  T597te 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597t 

Three  colonial  boys.     Wilde.     (War  of  the  revolution  series.) 
How  three  colonial  boys  went  to  Cambridge  with  powder  for  the  Continental  army. 

First  of  the  War  of  the  revolution  series.     The  others  are,  "Three  young  continentals," 

"Washington's  young  aids,"    "Two   young   patriots." 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597th 

Three  young  continentals.    Wilde.     (War  of  the  revolution  series.) 

The  young  continentals  serve  in  the  battle  of  Long  Island  under  Gen.    Stirling. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597tw 

Two  young  patriots;  or,  Boys  of  the  frontier;  a  story  of  Burgoyne's 
invasion.    Wilde.     (War  of  the  revolution  series.) 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597U 

Under  colonial  colors;  a  tale  of  Arnold's  expedition  in  1775.  Hough- 
ton. 

Struggles  and  hardships  endured  by  Benedict  Arnold  and  his  men  on  their  long 
march  through  the  Canadian  wilderness  to   Quebec. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  349 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  T597W 

Washington's   young   aids;    a   story   of   the    New   Jersey   campaign, 

1 776-1777.     Wilde.     (War  of  the  revolution  series.) 

Among  the  events  are  the   retreat   and  advance  of  the  patriot   forces,  the   raids   of 

the  pine  robbers  and  the  tempting  of  the  Hessians. 

Tomlinson,  Everett  Titsworth.  j  914.2  T59 

Young  Americans  in  the  British  Isles.     1910.     Houghton. 
Describes  places  of  interest  in  and  near  London,  towns  and  downs  in  the  south  of 

England,  the  gray  cities  of  the  north,  travels  in  the  Emerald  isle,   in   St.   David's  land, 

etc.     Map  of  the  British  Isles  and  many  pictures. 

Tomlinson,  Paul  Greene.  j  T5972t 

To  the  land  of  the  caribou;  the  adventures  of  four  classmates  on  a 

cruise  to  Labrador.     Scribner. 

Incidents  are  based  on  the  actual  experiences  of  four  Princeton  boys  who  made  the 

cruise  to  Labrador  in  order  to  present  a  yawl  to   Dr  Grcnfell,  the  well  known   medical 

missionary. 

Torrey,  Bradford.  j  598.2  T63e 

Everyday  birds;  elementary  studies.     1901.     Houghton. 

Simple  descriptions  of  common  birds,  the  butcher-bird,  the  scarlet  tanager,  the  song 
sparrow,  the  blue  jay,  the  kingbird,  the  chickadee  and  others,  with  colored  illustrations 
after  Audubon. 

j  915  T65 
Toward  the  rising  sun;  sketches  of  life  in  eastern  lands.  1902.  Ginn. 
(Youth's  companion  series.) 

Contents:     Siam. — A   morning   in    Benares. — A   school    in    China. — Country    life    in 
China. — A  Chinese  visit. — Korea  and  its  army. — Korean   ways. — Home  life  in  Japan. — 
A    fair    lady    of    Japan. —  The    head-hunters    of    Borneo. — -Christmas    in    the    trop 
Malayan    child    life. — Life    in    Manila. — Housekeeping    in    East    India. — The    fin 
shipers. 

Towers,  Walter  Kellogg.  j  796.32  T65 

Letters  from  Brother  Bill,  'varsity  sub,  to  Tad,  captain  of  the  Beech 

ville  high  school  eleven.     1915.     Crowell. 

Much    information   about   foot-ball — the   rules,  plays   and    signals.      Illustrations   and 

diagrams. 

Towle,  George  Makepeace.  j  92  D7861 

Drake,    the    sea-king    of    Devon.      1882.      Lothrop.      (Young    folks' 

heroes  of  history.) 

l.ife-story  of  Sir  Francis  Drake,  the  foremost  sea-captain  of  his  age,  whose  stirring 

career    was   filled    with    desperate    sea-fights,    feats   of   daring    and    action,    and    glorious 

achievements. 

Towle,  George  Makepeace.  j  926  T65 

Heroes  and  martyrs  of  invention.     1890.     Lothrop, 
Com,  nis:     Early    inventors.     Coster,    tin-   discoverer   of   type-printing.     Gutenberg, 
the  inventor  "f  tin-  printing-press.     Palissy,  tin-  potter. — Lee,  the  inventoi   "f  thi 
ing-frame. — Builders  of  the  Eddystone,      I  of  cotton-m  '.'.ait,  tin-   in- 

ventor of  the  steam-engine.     The   Montgolfiers  and  the  balloon       Davy  and  the 
lamp.     Nasmyth  and  the  steam-hammer.     Stephenson,  tin-  inventor  of  the  railway-loco- 
motive.-   Stephenson,  the  great  bridge-builder.     Fulton  and  thi 
Goodyear,     rlowi    and   the  sewing-machine,     [ron  .-111.1  it-  worki 

Towle,  George  Makepeace.  j  92  M252t 

Magellan;  or,  The   first  voyage   round   the    world.      1879.      Lothrop. 

(Young  folks'  heroes  of  history.) 

Romance,  adventure,  narrow   escape  and  brilliant  nl    marked  this  \ 

of  Magellan  from  the  p.. m  of  Cadiz  t<>  the  1  istralasia, 


350  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Towle,  George  Makepeace.  j  92  P76gt 

Marco  Polo;  his  travels  and  adventures.  1880.  Lothrop.  (Young 
folks'  heroes  of  history.) 

"The  reader  is  carried  back.  .  .to  a  period  two  centuries  previous  to  the  discovery 
of  the  route  to  India  by  Vasco  da  Gama,  and  to  the  conquest  of  Peru  by  Pizarro.  A 
young  Venetian  of  the  thirteenth  century,  brought  up  amid  luxury  and  wealth,  of  a 
bold  spirit  and  a  curious  mind,  went  forth  from  his  home  in  the  beautiful  Queen  City 
of  the  Adriatic,  and  for  many  years  lived  among  a  far-off  Asiatic  people,  and  at  a  court 
of  barbaric  and  yet  splendid  pomp."     Preface. 

Towle,  George  Makepeace.  j  92  P676t 

Pizarro;  his  adventures  and  conquests.  1878.  Lothrop.  (Young 
folks'  heroes  of  history.) 

Picturesque  narrative  of  the  exploits  of  the  16th  century  Spanish  hero. 

Towle,  George  Makepeace.  j  92  Ri68t 

Ralegh;  his  exploits  and  voyages.  1881.  Lothrop.  (Young  folks' 
heroes  of  history.) 

His  young  manhood  in  the  brilliant  court  of  Elizabeth,  his  courage  on  the  battle- 
field, and  the  energy  with  which  in  middle  life,  and  again  in  old  age,  he  pushed  his  at- 
tempts at  discovery  and  colonization,  are  clearly  brought  out. 

Towle,  George  Makepeace.  j  92  Gi6it 

Voyages    and    adventures    of    Vasco    da    Gama.      1878.      Lothrop. 

(Young  folks'  heroes  of  history.) 

In  his  own  day  Vasco  da  Gama  was   more   famous  than   Columbus,  and   his  story, 

like  that  of  the  other  explorers,  is  full  of  adventure,  romance  and  triumph. 

Toy,  Mrs  Marian  Elizabeth  (Bailey).    See  Bailey,  Marian  Elizabeth. 

Trafton,  Gilbert  Haven.  j  598.2  T68 

Bird  friends;  a  complete  bird  book  for  Americans.  1916.  Hough- 
ton. 

Contents:  The  value  of  birds. — Enemies  of  the  birds. — Bird-protection. — Bird-study 
in  schools. 

"Bibliography,"  p. 3 17-320. 

Emphasizes  the  importance  of  bird  protection.  There  are  chapters  on  state  and  na- 
tional bird  laws,  the  work  of  bird  clubs  and  Audubon  societies;  also  methods  of  attract- 
ing birds.     Many  illustrations. 

Treadwell,  Harriette  Taylor,  &  Free,  Margaret.  j  372.4  T71 

Reading — literature;  the  primer  adapted  and  graded.     1910.     Row. 

Contents:      The   little   red    hen. — The   gingerbread   boy. — The   old   woman  and   her 

pig- — The  boy  and  the  goat. — The  pancake. — Chicken  Little. — The  billy  goats  gruff. — 
Little  Tuppens. — Little  spider's   first  web. 

Colored  pictures. 

Treadwell,  Harriette  Taylor,  &  Free,  Margaret.  j  372.4  T7ia 

Reading— literature;  first  reader  adapted  and  graded.     191 1.     Row. 

Folk  tales  adapted  for  little  children,  Mother  Goose  rhymes,  and  nursery  poems 
by   Christina   Rossetti  and  others.      Colored  pictures. 

Treadwell,  Harriette  Taylor,  &  Free,  Margaret.  j  372.4  T7ib 

Reading — literature;  second  reader  adapted  and  graded.  1912.  Row. 
The  fables,  folk  tales  and  poems  are  arranged  in  related  groups,  "so  that  the  child 

may  get  a  body,  not  a   mere  bit,   of  one  kind   of  material  before  passing  to  another." 

Preface. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  351 

Tregarthen,  Enys.  j  398  T715 

North  Cornwall  fairies  and  legends,  with  introduction  by  Howard 
Fox.     [1906.]     Gardner. 

Contents:  The  adventures  of  a  Piskey  in  search  of  his  laugh. — The  legend  of  the 
Padstow  Doombar. — The  little  cake-bird. — -The  impounded  crows. — The  Piskeys'  revenge. 
— The  old  sky  woman. — Reefy,  reefy  rum. — The  little  horses  and  horsemen  of  Padstow. 
— How  Jan  Brewer  was  Piskey-laden. — The  small  people's  fair. — The  Piskeys  who  did 
Aunt   Betsy's  work. — The   Piskeys  who  carried  their  beds. — -The   fairy  whirlwind. 

Legends  of  the  fairy  horsemen  and  of  the  Piskey  people  who  in  other  days  danced  in 
their  rings  on  the  moors  of  Cornwall  and  crept  through  the  keyhole  of  moorland  cot- 
tages when  the  children  were  asleep  to  order  their  dreams. 

Trevert,  Edward,  (pseud,  of  Edward  Trevert  Bubier).  j  537.81  T73a 

Experimental  electricity.    Rev.  &  enl.  ed.     1903.     Bubier  Pub.  Co. 

Directions  for  making  a  simple  dynamo,  motor,  gas  lighter,  telegraph  instrument, 
induction  coil,  etc. 

Trevert,  Edward,  (pseud,  of  Edward  Trevert  Bubier).  j  621.31  T73h2 
How  to  build  dynamo-electric  machinery,  embracing  theory,  de- 
signing and  the  construction  of  dynamos  and  motors;  with  appendices 
on  field  magnet  and  armature  winding,  management  of  dynamos  and 
motors  and  tables  of  wire  gauges.     1902.     Bubier  Pub.  Co. 

Trevor,  Roy.  j  914.97  T73 

Montenegro,  a  land  of  warriors.  1913.  Black.  (Peeps  at  main- 
lands series.) 

Brief  account  of  the  country  and  of  the  life  and  customs  of  the  people.  Colored 
illustrations  show  the  native  costumes. 

Trimmer,  Mrs  Sarah  (Kirby).  j  T744I1 

History  of  the  robins;  ed.  by  E.  E.  Hale.    Heath. 

What  happened  to  four  little  robin  redbreasts  who  lived   in  an  old  wall. 

j  821.08  T74 
The  tripled  crown;  a  book  of  English,  Scotch  and  Irish  verse  for  the 
age  of  six  to  sixteen;  chosen  and  arranged  by  three  of  that  age.  1908. 
Frowde. 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend,  ed.  j  904  T77b 

Brave  deeds.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new  ser. 
v.io.) 

Contents:  Iloratius,  by  Lord  Macaulay. — The  pass  of  Thermopyl.-c,  by  C.  M. 
Yonge. — How  Pliny  saved  his  mother. — The  rock  of  the  capital,  The  keys  ol  Calais,  by 
CM.  Yonge. — Without  fear  and  without  reproach  (the  Chevalier  Bayard).  ] 
Arc,  by  C.  L.  Mateaux. — Sir  Philip  Sidney,  by  Helena  Peake.  A  deed  of  D 
S.J.  MaeKenna. — The  story  of  Sir  William  Wallace,  The  1  is.-  of  R  licit  the  Bruce,  I  lie 
exploits  of  Douglas  and  Randolph,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott.  Pocahontas,  by  Captain  John 
Smith. — Ned  Osborne's  leap,  by  C.  L,  Mateaux.  "I  did  nol  do  tin-  job  for  money, "by 
Sir  Cloudesley  Shovel. — Flora  MacDonald,  by  Frank  Rtfundell.  Grace  Darling.  Volney 
Beckner. — James   Maxwell. — Heroines  of  the    Revolution,  by    S,    A     I1  cutting 

out  of  the  Philadelphia,  by  !•"..  S.  Ellis. — The  exiles  of  Siberia,  Agostina  of  Zaragoza,  by 
C.  M.  Yonge. — Andreas  Hofer,  the  Tyrolcse,  by  Edgar  Sandei  Hi       •••   bis  life  for 

his  country. — Bolivar,  the  Washington  of  South  America,  bj  Edgar  SanJ.Tv.in  \ 
noble  American  woman  (Mary  Lovell  Pickard),  by  C.  M  Yonge.  The  prisoner's  friend 
(Mrs  Fry),  by  C.  L,  Mateaux. — The  story  of  th<    Mam...  by  C.  Newell.     The  loss  of  the 

Birkenhead,  by  Sir  !■'.   II.    Doyle.     -lialaklava ;   in   the  valley  of   death.      The  boy  who 

the  settlement. — The  first  winner  <>f  the  Victoria  cross      Garibaldi,  the  Italian  b< 
Edgar  Sanderson. — A  brave  st..ker,  by  ('.  D.    Michael.     Hobson  and  the  Merrimac,  by 

E.  S.  Ellis.-    •(  I "  (;..,, ion  iii  the  Son. Ian,  bj    W,  ll.   D.  Adams,      The  blowing  up 

of  the  All«  marie,  by  E.  S.  Ellis. — Biographical  notes. 


352  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend.  j  T773d 

Doing  his  best.     Winston. 
More  about  Jack  Hazard  and  his  fortunes. 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend.  j  T773dr 

Drummer  boy.     Lothrop. 

Story  of  a  young  New  England  boy  who  enlists  as  a  drummer  boy  in  the  early 
days  of  the  Civil  war. 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend.  j  T7731 

Fast  friends.    Winston. 

Appeared  in   "St.   Nicholas,"  v.i,  Jan.-Oct.    1874. 
Jack  Hazard's  adventures  in  New  York. 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend.  j  T773J 

Jack  Hazard  and  his  fortunes.     Winston. 
Jack  Hazard  is  a  canal-boat  boy  who  wins  for  himself  a  home  and  friends. 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend.  j  T773P 

The  prize  cup.    Century. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v.23,  Nov.   1895-May  1896. 

A  beautiful  silver  cup,  the  prize  in  a  boat  race,  is  won  by  Fred  Melverton,  who 
most  mysteriously  loses  it  and  finds  it  again. 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend.  j  T773ti 

Tinkham  brothers'  tide-mill.    Lothrop. 

Appeared  in  "St.   Nicholas,"  v.io,  Nov.   1882-Oct.   1883. 

The  Tinkham  brothers  were  five  plucky  young  fellows  who  purchased  a  tide-mill, 
which  through  the  ill-will  and  obstinacy  of  neighbors  became  a  source  of  much  trouble. 

Trowbridge,  John  Townsend.  j  T773y 

Young  surveyor.     Winston. 

Appeared  in  "St.  Nicholas,"  v. 2,  Jan.-Oct.   1875. 

Last  of  the  "Jack  Hazard"  series,  the  other  volumes  being  "Jack  Hazard  and  his 
fortunes,"  "Doing  his  best"  and  "Fast  friends." 

True,  John  Preston.  j  571  T77 

The  iron  star  and  what  it  saw  on  its  journey  through  the  ages  from 

myth  to  history.     1899.     Little. 

The  iron  star  was  a  meteorite  which  fell  to  the  earth  in  the  myth  age,  in  the  days 

of  Umpl  and   Sptz,  two  savages.     They  guarded   the  pieces  of  iron  all  their   days   and 

handed  them  down  to   their  children   from   generation   to   generation   until   at   last  they 

became  a  part  of  the  sword  of  Miles  Standish. 

True,  John  Preston.  j  T776m 

Morgan's  men.     Little. 

A  young  cavalry  captain's  adventures  with  Gen.  Greene  and  Gen.  Morgan,  Col. 
Tarleton  and  Lord  Cornwallis,  in  Carolina  during  the  Revolution.  Sequel  to  "Scout- 
ing for  Washington." 

True,  John  Preston.  j  T7760 

On  guard!  against  Tory  and  Tarleton.     Little. 

Maj.  Stuart  Schuyler's  adventures  during  Greene's  retreat  through  the  Carolinas. 
Follows  "Morgan's  men." 

True,  John  Preston.  j  T776S 

Scouting  for  Washington;  a  story  of  the  days  of  Sumter  and  Tarle- 
ton.    Little. 

A  boy's  adventures  as  an  American  spy  about  New  York  and  with  the  British  in 
South   Carolina.    Continued  by  "Morgan's  men." 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  353 

Tucker,  Louise  Emery,  &  Ryan,  E.  L.  j  793.1  T81 

Historical  plays  of  colonial  days  for  fifth  year  pupils.  1913.  Long- 
mans. 

Twenty-six  short  plays.  Those  relating  to  Pennsylvania  are,  "William  Perm's  treaty 
with  the  Indians"  and  "Robert  Morris  and  the  Revolution." 

Turley,  Charles.  j  T85?g 

Godfrey  Marten,  schoolboy.     Dutton. 
Story  of  life  in  an  English  public  school. 

Turley,  Charles.  j  T857m 

Maitland,  major  and  minor.     Dutton. 

Scrapes,  mischief  and  fun  of  boys  at  an  English  school. 

Turner,  Charles  C.  j  533.6  T86 

Aerial  navigation  of  to-day;  a  popular  account  of  the  evolution  of 
aeronautics.     Ed. 2.     1910.    Seeley. 

"An  aeronautical  bibliography,"  p. 320-321. 

History  and  principles  of  ballooning  and  mechanical  flight  and  descriptions  of 
typical  flying-machines  and  dirigible  balloons.  Contains  chapters  on  Military  and  naval 
aeronautics. — Strategy  and  aerial  invasion. — Aerial  law. — Limitations  of  flight. — Aero- 
nautical equipment. — Effect  on  society. 

Also  gives  tables  relating  to  flight  and  to  gases  and  a  glossary.  Illustrated  with 
32  plates  and  many  diagrams. 

Twain,  Mark,  (pseud,  of  Samuel  Langhorne  Clemens).  j  T8g7a 

Adventures  of  Huckleberry  Finn.     Harper. 

Huck  and  a  runaway  negro  float  down  the  Mississippi  river  on  a  raft.  Sequel  to 
"The  adventures  of  Tom  Sawyer." 

Twain,  Mark,  (pseud,  of  Samuel  Langhorne  Clemens).  j  T8g7t 

Adventures  of  Tom  Sawyer.     Harper. 

Reminiscent  of  Mark  Twain's  own  boy  life  in  the  little  town  of  Hannibal,  Mo.,  on 
the  Mississippi   river. 

Twain,  Mark,  (pseud,  of  Samuel  Langhorne  Clemens).  j  T8g7pe 

Personal  recollections  of  Joan  of  Arc  by  Louis  de  Conte.     Harper. 

Romantic  story  of  the  peasant  maid  of  Domremy  who  saw  the  vision  of  the  arch- 
angel and  heard  the  heavenly  voices  commanding  her  to  deliver  France.  Told  by  her 
page  and  secretary,  her  companion  from  childhood,  who  followed  her  to  court,  rode  by 
her  side  in  the  wars,  when  she  led  the  French  forces  from  victory  t"  victory,  and  was 
present  in   Rouen   during  her  trial  and  martyrdom. 

Twain,   Mark,   (pseud,  of  Samuel   Langhorne   Clemens).  j   T897P 

Prince  and  the  pauper.     Harper. 

Bj  a  strange  accident  the  boy  kinn.  Edward  VI,  becomes  the  1 1   boj   ai 

boy   becomes  the  boy   king  and   they   both   have   strange  and   exciting   adventures. 

Twain,  Mark,  (pseud,  of  Samuel  Langhorne  Clemens).  j  92  J32gt 

Saint  Joan  of  Arc,  with  illustrations  in  color  by  Howard  Pyle,  deco- 
rations in  tint  by  W.J.  Jones.     1919.     Harper. 
Short  sketch,  with  four  full-page  plates. 

Twombly,  Alexander  Stevenson.  j  996.9  ^93 

Hawaii  and  its  people;  the  land  of  rainbow  ami  palm.  [900.  Silver. 
History  of  the  Hawaiian  islands  from  an  earlj  period  to  the  time  of  the  annexation 

to  the  United  States.      Includi  of  Pele,  thi  1    the   vol, -.mo.   of 

the  surf  rider,  and  other  legends. 

Tynan,  Katharine.     See  Hinkson,  Mrs  Katharine   (Tynan). 
Uncle  Remus,  pseud.    See  Harris,  Joel  Chandler. 


354  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Underdown,  Emily.  j  821  Mgig 

The  gateway  to  romance;  tales  retold  from  "The  earthly  paradise" 
of  William  Morris.     [1909.]     Nelson. 

Contents:  The  six  gifts. — The  man  born  to  be  king. — The  king's  vow. — The  apples 
of  Venus. — The  dumb  princess. — The  story  of  a  hero. — The  golden  slippers. — The  king's 
punishment. — The  tasks  of  Psyche. 

Underhill,  Mrs  Zoe  (Dana),  comp.  j  398  U25 

Dwarfs'  tailor,  and  other  fairy  tales.     1896.     Harper. 

Some   of   the   other   stories    are,    Cinderboy   and    the   witch. — Little   Jacob    and    the 

sugar-plum   tree. — The   three   princesses   with    glass   hearts. — The    seven    reindeer. — The 

adventures   of   Peronnik. — The   golden   apples. — Ivan    Czarovitch   and    Bulat  the   Brave. 

United  States — Committee  on  public  information.  j  808.8  U25 

The  battle  line  of  democracy;  prose  and  poetry  of  the  world  war. 
1917.     (Red,  white  and  blue  series,  no. 3.) 

United  States — Education  bureau.  qj  635  U25 

Forty  lessons  in  gardening  for  the  northeastern  states.  1919- 
(United  States  school  garden  army.) 

Pamphlet,  designed  for  use  in  connection  with  work  in  school  supervised  gardens, 
but  the  practical  directions  are  helpful  also  for  home  gardening. 

United  States — Ethnology  bureau.  j  970.6  U25 

Circular  of  information  regarding  Indian  popular  names.      [1915.] 
"Books  on  folk-lore,  myths  and  legends,"  p. 6-8. 
Gives  list  of  simplified  Indian  names  suitable   for  use  by   Camp   Fire  Girls  and   as 

camp  names. 

United  States — Food  administration.  j  641  U25 

Food  saving  and  sharing;  telling  how  the  older  children  of  Amer- 
ica may  help  save  from  famine  their  comrades  in  allied  lands  across 
the  sea.     1919.     Doubleday. 

Prepared  in  co-operation  with  the  United  States  department  of  agriculture  and  the 
bureau  of  education. 

Tells  about  the  value  of  different  kinds  of  food  as  well  as  of  the  need  of  food  con- 
servation.    Simply  written. 

United  States — Interior  department.  j  711  U25 

National  parks  portfolio.     [1916.] 

Contents:     Yellowstone  national  park. — Yosemite  national   park. — Sequoia  national 

park. — Mount  Rainier  national  park. — Crater  lake  national  park. — Mesa  Verde  national 

park.- — Glacier  national  park. — Rocky  mountain  national  park. —  Grand  canyon  national 
monument. 

United  States — President.     (Woodrow  Wilson.)  j  973.913  U25 

President  Wilson's  addresses;  ed.  by  G.  M.  Harper.     1918.     Holt. 

(English  readings  for  schools.) 

Addresses    dealing   with   the   political    events   of   President   Wilson's    administration 

and   the    European   war.      Begins   with   the    first   inaugural   address    and   ends    with    the 

Baltimore  speech  of  April  6,  1918. 

United  States — President.     (Woodrow  Wilson.)  j  973.9132  U25 

Why  we  are  at  war.     1917.     Harper. 

Contents:  A  world  league  for  peace;  message  to  the  Senate,  Jan.  22,  1917.— The 
severance  of  diplomatic  relations  with  Germany;  message  to  the  Congress,  Feb.  3,  1917. 
— Request  for  a  grant  of  power;  message  to  the  Congress,  Feb.  26,  1917. — We  must 
accept  war;  message  to  the  Congress,  April  2,  1917. — A  state  of  war;  the  president's 
proclamation  of  April  6,  1917. — "Speak,  act  and  serve  together;"  message  to  the  Ameri- 
can people,  April  15,  1917. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  355 

United  States — War  department.  j  356  U25 

Infantry    drill    regulations,    revised    1904.      1908.      Army   and    Navy 

Journal. 

Contains  a  chapter  on  Interpretations  of  the  drill. 

j  359  U25 

United   States   navy,   with   a   foreword   by   Rear-Admiral    15.  A.    Fiske; 

pictures  by  E.  Muller.     1917.     Rand. 

Photographs  showing  the  various  types  of  vessels  in  the  United  States  navy— battle 

ships,   cruisers,    destroyers   and   submarines.      Gives   brief   information    about   size,   date, 

number  of  guns,  etc. 

Upton,  George  Putnam.  j  927.8  U26 

In  music  land;  a  handbook  for  young  people.     1913.     Browne. 
Stories  of  the  childhood  and  youth  of  12  famous  composers,  beginning  with  Bach, 

the  father  of  modern  music.     Also  explains  the  different  forms  of  musical  composition 

and  describes  the  instruments  used  in  a  modern  orchestra. 

Vachell,  Horace  Annesley.  j  Vush 

The  hill;  a  romance  of  friendship.     Dodd. 
Story  of  school  life  at  Harrow,  England. 

Vaile,  Mrs  Charlotte  Marion  (White).  j  V1370 

The  Orcutt  girls.    Wilde. 

The  "Orcutt  girls,"  who  are  anxious  to  go  to  college,  work  in  a  factory  and  earn 
money  enough  to  spend  one  term  at  Merton  Academy. 

Vaile,  Mrs  Charlotte  Marion  (White).  j  V137S 

Sue  Orcutt;  a  sequel  to  The  Orcutt  girls.    Wilde. 
Valentine,  Mrs  Laura  (Jewry).  j  398  V15 

Aunt  Louisa's  book  of  fairy  tales.     Warne. 

Collection  of  the  children's  favorite  fairy  tales,  such  as  The  three  bears. — Tom 
Thumb. — Jack  and  the  bean  stalk. — Jack  the  Giant  Killer. — Cinderella. — Little  Red  Rid- 
ing Hood. 

Simple  versions  of  the  stories.     Large  print  and  many  pictures. 

Vamba,  pseud.     Sec  Bertelli,  Luigi. 

Van  Bergen,  Robert.  j  951  V17 

Story  of  China.     1902.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Good  short  account  of  the  country,  the  people  and  their   history, 
Van  Bergen,  Robert.  j  952  V17 

Story  of  Japan.     1897.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

In  connection  with  the  history  of  Japan  the  author  gives  many  incidents  and  char- 
acteristic stories  which  illustrate  the  manners  and  customs  of  different   periods. 

Van  Bergen,  Robert.  j  947  V17 

Story  of  Russia.     1905.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

From   early  times  to  the  war   with   Japan. 

Partial  contents:  A  Russian  republic. — The  yellow  peril.  The  first  Romanof. — 
Peter  the  Great  and  his  time, — Alexander  II.  the   Liberai 

Van  Dyke,  Henry.  j  755  V18 

Christ-child  in  art;  a  study  of  interpretation.     [898.     Harper. 
Contents:     Tin-    annunciation.— The    nativity.    -The   adoration   of   the    magi.      Tin- 
flight  into  Egypt. — The  childhood  of  Jesus. 

Beautifully  illustrated  with  reproductions  of  {real  ■ 

Van  Dyke,  Henry.  j  Vi87f 

The  first  Christmas  tree.     Scribi 

Story  of  the  day  before  Christmas  in  the  yt  ■  icribing  the  h  ■  !>■ 

mission  of  St.  Boniface,  the  "Apostle  of  Germany."  Illustrated  by  Howard  Pyle. 


356  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Van  Dyke,  Henry,  ed.  j  904  V18 

Historic  scenes  in  fiction;  extracts  from  famous  novels  describing 
historic  events.  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new  ser. 
v.15.) 

Contents:  The  last  days  of  Pompeii,  How  a  hero  king  fought  and  died,  by  E.  B. 
Lytton. — The  return  of  Richard  Coeur  de  Lion,  by  Scott. — For  Wallace  or  King  Edward, 
by  Jane  Porter. — How  England  held  the  lists  at  Bordeaux,  by  A.  C.  Doyle. — The  rescue 
of  Florence,  by  George  Eliot. — The  trial  and  execution  of  Sir  Thomas  More,  by  Anne 
Manning. — Queen  Elizabeth  at  Kenilworth,  by  Scott. — The  defeat  of  the  Armada,  by 
Charles  Kingsley. — Charles  the  First  and  the  fall  of  Strafford,  by  J.  H.  Shorthouse. — 
The  battle  of  Edgehill,  by  Daniel  Defoe. — The  maypole  of  Merry  Mount,  by  Nathaniel 
Hawthorne. — The  defeat  of  the  duke  of  Monmouth,  by  R.  D.  Blackmore. — The  gray 
champion,  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — A  king  and  no  king,  by  W.  M.  Thackeray. — The 
massacre  of  William  Henry,  by  J.  F.  Cooper. — The  taking  of  Quebec,  by  Gilbert  Parker. 
— For  freedom's  sake,  by  Mrs  A.  E.  Barr. — The  burning  of  Newgate,  by  Charles  Dickens. 
■ — General  Washington,  by  W.  M.  Thackeray. — The  taking  of  the  Bastille,  by  Charles 
Dickens. — Waterloo,  by  W.   M.   Thackeray. — Notes. 

Van  Dyke,  Henry.  j  V187I 

The  lost  word;  a  Christmas  legend  of  long  ago.    Scribner. 

Van  Dyke,  Henry.  j  V187S 

Story  of  the  other  wise  man.     Harper. 

Story  of  the  fourth  wise  man  and  his  patient,  loving  search  for  the  Messiah. 

Van  Sickle,  James  Hixon,  &  Seegmiller,  Wilhelmina.  j  372.4  V17 

First  reader  [written  with  the  assistance  of]  Frances  Jenkins.  1911. 
Houghton.     (Riverside  readers.) 

Van  Sickle,  James  Hixon,  &  Seegmiller,  Wilhelmina.  j  808.8  V17 

Second  reader    [written   with  the   assistance   of]    Frances   Jenkins. 

191 1.  Houghton.     (Riverside  readers.) 

Van  Sickle,  James  Hixon,  &  Seegmiller,  Wilhelmina.  j  808.8  Vi7t 

Third  reader  [written  with  the  assistance  of]  Frances  Jenkins.  1911. 
Houghton.     (Riverside  readers.) 

Van  Sickle,  James  Hixon,  &  Seegmiller,  Wilhelmina.  j  808.8  Vi7f 

Fourth   reader    [written   with  the   assistance   of]    Frances   Jenkins. 

1912.  Houghton.     (Riverside  readers.) 

Van  Teslaar,  J.  S.  j  914.98  V19 

When   I   was   a  boy  in   Roumania.      1917.      Lothrop.      (Children   of 

other  lands  books.) 

Tells  boys  and  girls  how  they  would  live,  dress,  study  and  play  if  they  had  been 

born  in  Roumania. 

Verne,  Jules.  j  V274a 

Around  the  world  in  eighty  days.     Burt. 

An  Englishman's  wager  and  how  he  was  tracked  as  a  bank  robber  around  the  world. 
Also  published  with  the  title  "Tour  of  the  world  in  eighty  days." 

Verne,  Jules.  j  923.9  V27f 

Famous  travels  and  travellers.  1892.  Scribner.  (Exploration  of 
the  world.) 

Contents:  Celebrated  travellers  before  the  Christian  era. — Celebrated  travellers 
from  the  ist  to  the  9th  century. — Benjamin  of  Tudela. — Plan  de  Carpin,  or  Carpini. — 
Rubruquis. — Marco  Polo. — Ibn  Batuta. — Jean  de  Bethencourt. — Columbus. — The  con- 
quest of  India  and  of  the  Spice  countries. — The  conquerors  of  Central  America. — Magel- 
lan and  the   first  voyage  round  the  world. — The   polar   expeditions  and   the   search    for 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  357 

Verne,  Jules — continued.  j  923.9  V271 

the  north-west  passage. — Drake. — Cavendish. — De  Noort. — Raleigh. —  Missionaries  and 
settlers,  merchants  and  tourists. — William  Dampier,  the  great  corsair. — The  pole  and 
America. 

Verne,  Jules.  j  V2741 

From  the  earth  to  the  moon,  and  A  trip  round  it.     Scrihner. 
"A   must    remarkable   tale   of    a   trip    in    an    iron    projectile    from    the    earth    to    the 

moon,  and  an  involuntary  voyage  around  it."     G.  E.   Hardy. 

Verne,  Jules.  j  853  V27 

II  giro  del  mondo  in  ottanta  giorni.    2v.  in  1. 

Verne,  Jules.  j  923.9  V27g 

Great  explorers  of  the  19th  century.  1904.  Scribner.  (Exploration 
of  the  world.) 

Contents:  The  dawn  of  a  century  of  discovery. — -The  exploration  and  coloniza- 
tion of  Africa. — The  oriental  scientific  movement  and  American  discoveries. — A'oyages 
round  the  world  and  polar  expeditions. — French  circumnavigators. — Polar  expeditions. — 
The  North  pole. 

Verne,  Jules.  j  V274m 

Mysterious  island.     Burt. 

In  three  parts:  "Dropped  from  the  clouds,"  "Abandoned"  anil  "The  secret  of  the 
island."  Sequel  to  "Twenty  thousand  leagues  under  the  sea." 

The  same;  pictures  by  N.  C.  Wyeth.     Scribner j  V274m2 

Fourteen   full-page  plates  in  color. 

Verne,  Jules. 

Tour  of  the  world  in  eighty  days.  Sec  his  Around  the  world  in 
eighty  days. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Verne,  Jules:  j  V274t 

Twenty  thousand  leagues  under  the  sea.  Grosset.  (Every  boy's 
library;  boy  scout  edition.) 

The  wonderful  story  of  Capt.  Nemo  and  his  ingenious  submarine  boat. 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  629.1232  V28 

Book  of  the  motor  boat;  how  to  operate  and  care  for  motor  boats 

and  motors.     1916.     Appleton. 

Includes  chapters  on  the  development  of  the  motoi  boat,  various  types  of  hulls  and 

motors,  accessories  and  fittings,  and  on  selecting  and  installing  the  motor, 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  797  V28 

Book  of  the  sailboat;  how  to  rig,  sail  and  handle  small  boats.  1916. 
Appleton. 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  579  V28 

Boy  collector's  handbook.     191 5.     McBride. 

Contents:  Why  and  what  tn  collect.  -Rocks  and  minerals  Fossils,  Plants  and 
vegetable  specimens.- -Insects. — Fresh  writer  animals.  Marine  animals.  Photographing 
wild  things. — The  use  ami  value  of  the  microscope.  Indian  relies. — Wat,  historical  and 
other   relics. --Stamps,  coins,   postcards,   etc, 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  796  V28 

Boys'  outdoor  vacation  hook;  a  complete  handbook  tor  every  boy 

fond  of  life  and  recreation  in  the  open.     [916.     Dodd. 

Vacation  suggestions  fur  both  summer  and  winter.     Include!  on  camping, 

woodcraft,  swimming,  sailing  ami  other  spurts.     Also  tells  how  t"  build  and  use  a  glider, 

how  to  make  moccasins  and  primitr  1  ind  how  to  render  first  aid  to  the  injured. 


358  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  V282C 

Cruise  of  the  Cormorant.     Holt. 

Two  American  boys  go  with  their  uncle  on  a  yachting  trip  to  the  West  Indies. 
They  visit  St.  Kitts,  Antigua,  Tobago  and  other  islands  and  learn  about  West  Indian 
life,  products,  resources  and  history. 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  716  V28 

Harper's  book  for  young  gardeners;  how  to  make  the  best  use  of  a 
little  land.     1914.     Harper.     (Harper's  practical  books.) 

Consists  of  three  parts:  the  garden  profitable,  the  garden  ornamental,  and  the  gar- 
den practical.     Contains  chapter  on   school  gardens  and  one  on  Burbank  and  his  work. 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  579  V28I1 

Harper's  book  for  young  naturalists;  a  guide  to  collecting  and  pre- 
paring specimens,  with  descriptions  of  the  life,  habits  and  haunts  of 
birds,  insects,  plants,  etc.     1913.     Harper. 

Practical  suggestions  for  starting  a  collection,  for  supplies  and  tools,  for  arrang- 
ing and  naming  specimens.  Minerals,  fossils,  Indian  relics  and  botanical  collections 
are  inculded.  Glossaries  of  scientific  terms  are  appended  and  there  are  drawings  and 
photographic  illustrations. 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  654.1  V28 

Harper's  wireless  book;  how  to  use  wireless  electricity  in  tele- 
graphing, telephoning  and  the  transmission  of  power.  1913.  Harper. 
(Harper's  practical  books.) 

Contents:  The  why  and  how  of  wireless. — How  to  build  and  use  wireless  apparatus. 
— Wireless  telephony. 

Diagrams  and  other  illustrations. 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  V282i 

In  Morgan's  wake.     Holt. 

A  treasure  hunting  cruise  among  the  West  Indies  and  along  the  northern  coast 
of  South  America.     Sequel  to  "Cruise  of  the  Cormorant." 

Verrill,  Alpheus  Hyatt.  j  V282U 

Uncle  Abner's  legacy.     Holt. 

A  city  boy  and  girl  inherit  an  abandoned  farm  and  by  the  use  of  up-to-date  methods 
make  a  success  of  their  venture. 

qj  784.8  V31 
Vieilles  chansons  pour  les  coeurs  sensibles  [edition  ornee  de  trente- 
deux  images  par  Pierre  Brissaud].     [1911.] 

Old  French  songs  with  music  and  colored  pictures. 

Villee,  Sallie  Helen.  j  372.4  V33 

Little-folk  dialogue  reader.     1912.    Sower. 

"May  be  used  alone  or  in  connection  with  the  Primer  or  First  Reader  of  any  series." 
Preface. 

Virgil.     ^Eneid.    For  adaptation  see 

Brooks,  Edward.     Story  of  the  ^Eneid j  873  V34ab 

Church,  A.  J.     yEneid  for  boys  and  girls j  873  V34C 

Church,  A.  J.  ed.     Stories  from  Virgil j  873   V34 

Clarke,  Michael.     Story  of  vEneas j  873  V34ac 

Havell,  H.  L.     Stories  from  the  ^Eneid j  873  V34I1 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR   LIST  359 

Voltaire,  Frangois  Marie  Arouet  de,  and  others.  j  V378S 

Silver  fairy  book.    Burt. 

Contents:  A  Christmas  story,  from  the  French  of  Sarah  Bernhardt. — The  iron 
casket,  from  the  German. — The  white  mouse,  from  the  French  of  Hegesippe  Moreau. — 
The  unicorn,  by  E.  P.  Larken. — The  bird-cage  maker,  from  the  Spanish. — The  two 
genies,  from  the  French  of  Voltaire. — The  land  of  youth;  a  Scandinavian  popular  tale. — 
The  stone-breaker,  from  the  French  of  Quatrelles.— The  golden  bees  of  Mythia,  by 
Horace  Murrcigh. — The  palace  of  vanity,  from  the  French  of  Mine  ftmile  de  Girardin. — 
The  three  golden  hairs  of  old  Vsevede,  from  the  Servian. — Fatma,  from  the  German  of 
Wilhelm  Hauff. — The  golden  spinning-wheel,  from  the  French  of  Xavier  Marmier. — The 
ship  that  could  sail  over  land  and  sea,  from  the  German. — The  vizier  and  the  fly,  from 
the  French  of  Louis  de  Gramont. 

Von  Horn,  W.  O.  pseud.    See  Oertel,  Philipp  Friedrich  Wilhelm. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton. 

Anahei,  our  little  brown  cousin.     See  her  Our  little  brown  cousin. 
Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton. 

Artin,   our    little    Armenian    cousin.      See   her    Our    little    Armenian 

cousin. 

Same  work   published   under  both  titles. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton. 

Bertha,  our  little  German  cousin.    See  her  Our  little  German  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton. 

Chin,  our  little  Siamese  cousin.     See  Iter  Our  little  Siamese  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  973.1  Wn 

Coming  of  the  white  men;  stories  of  how  our  country  was  dis- 
covered.    1905.    Wilde. 

Contents:  The  Norsemen. — The  Genoese  sailor. — John  Cabot  and  the  codfish. — 
The  fountain  of  youth. — The  good  knight  and  the  lost  baby. — The  story  of  a  daring 
man. — Henry  Hudson. — The  Pilgrims. — Little  Pilgrims  of  long  ago. — Roger  Williams. — 
The  Father  of  Waters. — The  story  of  a  young  Quaker. — Lord  Baltimore  and  the  Catho- 
lics.— The  poor   debtors. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  Wn8d 

Dolls  of  many  lands;  doll  stories.    Wilde. 

Contents:  Plum  Bloom,  the  Japanese  doll. — The  Eskimo  doll. — The  Dutch  doll. — 
Mrs  Martha,  Queen  Victoria's  doll. — Viola  May,  the  Parisian  doll. — The  Korean  doll. — 
The  Persian   doll. — The  Egyptian  doll.— Rippling  Water,  the  Indian   doll. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  9156  Wn 

Our   little   Armenian   cousin.      1905.      Page.      (Little   cousin   series.) 
Same  as  her  "Artin,  our  little  Armenian  cousin." 
A  boy's  daily  life   in   Armenia.     There  is  an   account  of  a   hunting   expedition,     an 

earthquake  and  a  journey  to  the  city  of  Erzeroum. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  91911  Wn 

Our  little  brown  cousin.     1901.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 
This  little  cousin  lives  in    i  l  the  story  tells  of  his  food,  play,  home  and 

pets,  as  well  as  the  life  and  occupations  of  his  father  and   mother. 

Also  published  under  the  titles  "Anahei,  "ur  little  brown  cousin,"  and  "Our  little 

Malayan  cousin." 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  917.291  Wn 

Our  little  Cuban  cousin.    1902.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.  1 
About  some  Cuban  children  and  theii   life  al  the  time  of  t  ho  Spanish  American  war. 


360  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  914.3  Wn 

Our  little  German  cousin.     1904.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Contents:      Christmas. — -Toy-making. — The   wicked   bishop. — The   coffee-party. — The 
great  Frederick. — The  brave  princess. — What  the  waves  bring. — The  magic  sword. 
Same  as  her  "Bertha,  our  little  German  cousin." 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  914.5  Wn 

Our  little  Italian  cousin.     1903.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Tessa  and  Beppo  are  two  little  Italian  peasant  children  who  become  models  for  an 
American  artist.  The  book  tells  how  they  saw  the  Roman  carnival  and  visited  St.  Peter's 
and  the  buried  city  of  Pompeii. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Tessa,   our  little  Italian  cousin." 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton. 

Our  little  Malayan  cousin.    See  her  Our  little  brown  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  919.14  Wn 

Our  little  Philippine  cousin.     1902.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Life  of  a  little  Filipino  boy,  Alila  of  Luzon.  Tells  about  his  first  party,  the  building 
of  the  house,  the  buffalo  hunt,  tapping  for  tuba,  etc. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  gi5-9  Wn 

Our  little  Siamese  cousin.     1903.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

"Let  us... take  part  in  the  games  and  sports  of  the  children  of  Siam.  We  will  at- 
tend some  of  their  festivals,  take  a  peep  into  the  royal  palace,  enter  the  temples,  and 
learn  something  about  the  ways  and  habits  of  that  far-away  eastern  country."  Preface. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "Chin,  our  little  Siamese  cousin." 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  920  Wn 

Pilgrims  of  to-day.     1918.    Little. 

Contents:  John  Muir. — Jacob  Riis. — Mary  Antin. — E.  A.  Steiner. — Carl  Schurz. — 
Nathan    Straus. — Joseph    Pulitzer. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton.  j  970.2  Wn 

Ten  big  Indians;  stories  of  famous  Indian  chiefs.     [1905.]     Wilde. 

Contents:  Montezuma,  last  king  of  the  Aztecs. — Hioh,  the  Californian  king. — Pow- 
hatan, Indian  king  of  Virginia. — Philip,  king  of  the  Wampanoags. — Pontiac,  war  chief 
of  the  Ottawas. — Red  Jacket,  great  orator  of  the  Senecas. — Osceola,  war  chief  of  the 
Seminoles. — Black  Hawk,  last  great  chief  of  the  Sacs  and  Foxes. — Sitting  Bull,  great 
medicine  chief  of  the  Sioux. — Seattle,  last  great  chief  of  Washington. 

Wade,  Mary  Hazelton. 

Tessa,  our  little  Italian  cousin.    See  her  Our  little  Italian  cousin. 

Same  work  published  under  both  titles. 

Waite,  Henry  Randall,  ed.  j  680  W14 

Boy's  workshop.     1884.     Lothrop. 

Outlines  in  a  very  practical  way  the  care  and  use  of  tools  and  the  making  of  use- 
ful articles. 

Walker,  Alice  Johnstone.  j  793.1  W16 

Little  plays  from  American  history  for  young  folks.     1914.     Holt. 

Contents:  Hiding  the  regicides.- — Mrs  Murray's  dinner  party. — Four  scenes  from 
the  time  of  Lincoln. 

Walker,  Frederick.  j  533.6  Wi6a 

Aerial  navigation;  a  practical  handbook  on  the  construction  of  dirig- 
ible balloons,  aerostats,  aeroplanes  and  airships.  Ed.2,  rev.  &  enl. 
1910.     Lockwood. 

Chapters  on  the  laws  of  flight,  motive  power,  screw  propulsion,  etc.  with  descrip- 
tions of  different  types  of  machines.  Illustrated. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  361 

Walker,  Frederick.  j  533.6  W16 

Practical  kites  and  aeroplanes;  how  to  make  and  work  them.  Rev. 
ed.     1909.     Pitman. 

Theory  and  practice  of  kite  construction  from  the  simple  boxkite  to  the  aeroplane 
capable  of  supporting  the  weight  of  a  man. 

Appendix  gives  table  of  relative  weights  of  materials  used  in  kite  and  aeroplane 
construction. 

Walker,  Gertrude,  &  Jenks,  H.  S.  comp.  qj  372.2  Wi6a 

Songs  and  games  for  little  ones.     191 1.     Ditson. 

Contents:  Hymns. —  Spring  songs. —  Summer  songs. —  Autumn  songs. —  Winter 
songs. — Christmas  carols. — Miscellaneous  songs. — Good-morning  songs. — Finger  plays. — 
Songs  for  first  and  second  gifts. — Games. — Parting  songs. 

Walker,  Margaret  Coulson.  j  598.2  Wi7b 

Bird  legend  and  life.     1908.     Baker. 

Describes  the  life  and  habits  of  1 1  well  known  birds  and  gives  the  legends  and 
stories  connected  with  them,  such  as  the  origin  of  the  wren,  the  legend  of  the  magpie's 
nest  building,  ho^v  the  buzzard  or  vulture  was  clothed,  and   others.     Well  illustrated. 

Walker,  Margaret  Coulson.  j  790  W17 

Lady  Hollyhock  and  her  friends;  a  book  of  nature  dolls  and  others; 
drawings  by  M.  I.  Hunt.     1906.     Baker. 

Shows  how  to  make  dolls  and  animals  out  of  such  things  as  hollyhocks,  cucumbers 
and  pansies. 

Partial  contents:  Radish  babies. — Poppy  maids. — Creatures  of  clay. — The  corn 
husk  lady. — Paper  dolls. — The  gingerbread  maid. — Tissue-paper  ladies. 

Colored  pictures. 

Walker,  Margaret  Coulson.  j  598.2  W17 

Our  birds  and  their  nestlings.     1904.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:  The  coming  of  the  birds. — The  bluebird. — The  robin. — The  song  sparrow. 
— The  Baltimore  oriole. — The  redwinged  blackbird.— The  house  wren. — The  children  of 
a  crow. — The  redheaded  woodpecker. — A  castle  in  the  air  (kingbirds). — The  bobolink. 
— The  bobwhife. — The  blue  jay. — The  humming  bird. — Unnatural  orphans  (cowbii 
The  brown  thrush  or  thrasher.— The  barn  swallow. — The  waxwing  or  cedar  bird. — The 
catbird. — The  scarlet  tanager. — The  American  goldfinch. — The  flicker  or  golden-winged 
woodpecker. 

Includes  poems  and  legends.    Appendix  gives  descriptions  of  birds,   nests  and 
also  the  song,  range  and  food  of  each  bird.     Fourteen  colored  pictures  and   many  Other 
illustrations  from   photographs. 

Wallace,  Dillon.  j  Wi75g 

The   gaunt   gray   wolf;    a   tale    of   adventure    with    "Ungava    Bob." 

Revel  1. 

As  trappers  together.  Shad  Trowbridge  and  "Ungava   Bob"  and  bard 

ship  in  the  wilds  of  far-away  Labrador. 

Wallace,  Dillon.  j  Wi75gr 

Grit  a-plenty;  a  tale  of  the  Labrador  wild.     Revell. 

Two  boys,    whose   father    has    been    injured,   undertake    I"    limit    lii-.    winter    fur    trail. 

They  experience  many  hardships  and  dangers,  and  "k'rit  a-plenty"  is  needed  before  they 
again  see  the  trapper's  cabin  on  Eskimo  bay. 

Wallace,  Dillon.  j  W175U 

Ungava  Bob;  a  winter's  tale.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy 

scout  edition.  ) 

Story   of   a    plucky    young    trapper    and    bis  emote    regions    of 

Labrador. 


' 


362  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Wallace,  Dillon.  j  W175W 

The  wilderness  castaways.     McClurg. 

Two  boys,  the  son  of  a  New  York  millionaire  and  a  sturdy,  self-reliant  sailor  lad, 
are  lost  from  a  hunting  party  in  the  Hudson  bay  region  and  pass  a  winter  of  peril  and 
hardship  in  the  great  North.  A  night  adrift  on  an  ice-pan,  hunting  and  trapping  feats, 
and  encounters  with  wolves  and  other  wild  animals  form  a  part  of  the  story. 

Wallace,  Lewis.  j  W176IJ 

Ben-Hur;  a  tale  of  the  Christ.     Harper. 

Ben-Hur  is  a  young  Jew  of  noble  family  taken  prisoner  by  the  Romans  and  made  a 
galley-slave.  The  sea-fight  with  the  pirates  of  the  Mediterranean  and  the  chariot-race 
at  Antioch  are  among  the  thrilling  incidents  of  the  story. 

Waller,  Mary  Ella.  j  Wi8id 

Daughter  of  the  rich  and  her  friends,  the  Blossoms  of  Mount  Hun- 
ger.   Little. 

Tells  of  a  rich  young  girl  who  spent  a  year  on  a  farm  and  of  the  jolly  times  of  the 
farmer's  children.     The  story  ends  with  a  romance. 

Walsh,  William  Shepard.  j  937  W18 

Our  young  folks'  history  of  the  Roman  empire.     1886.     Lippincott. 

From  the  time  when  Octavius  Caesar  became  undisputed  master  of  the  Roman  world 
to  the  fall  of  the  empire. 

Walter,  L.  Edna.  *  j  784-8  W19 

Some  nursery  rhymes  of  Belgium,  France  &  Russia;  selected  and 
rhymed  into  English  by  L.  E.  Walter,  and  the  Belgian  airs  harmonised 
by  Lucy  Broadwood.     [iQi7-]     Black. 

Illustrations  in  color  by  Boutet  de  Monvel  and  others. 

Walton,  Joseph  Solomon,  &  Brumbaugh,  M.  G.  j  974-8  W19 

Stories  of  Pennsylvania;   or,  School   readings   from   Pennsylvania 

history.     1897.    Amer.  Book  Co. 

Contents:     Before  the  coming  of  Penn. — Penn  and  the  Quakers. — The  Germans  in 

Pennsylvania.— Other  pioneers. — The  natives  of  Pennsylvania. — Troubles  on  the  border. 

— Incidents  of  the  Revolutionary  war. — Later  incidents. 
Chiefly  of  colonial  and  Revolutionary  periods. 

Ward,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Stuart  (Phelps).  j  W2i3gy 

Gypsy  Breynton.    Dodd. 

Gypsy  is  a  lively  girl  who  is  always  getting  into  mischief,  and  who  delights  in 
paddling  rafts,  climbing  trees,  skating,  tramping  and  other  out-of-door  sports. 

Warman,  Cy.  j  W232e 

The  express  messenger,  and  other  tales  of  the  rail.    Scribner. 

Other  tales:  The  locomotive  that  lost  herself. — A  wild  night  at  Wood  river. — Waka- 
lona. — A  locomotive  as  a  war  chariot. — A  ghost  train  illusion. — The  story  of  engine  107. 
— Catching  a  runaway  engine. — A  railway  mail  clerk. — The  mysterious  message. — Scrap- 
tomania. 

Warman,  Cy.  j  W232sh 

Short  rails.     Scribner. 

Contents:  The  new  ticket  agent. — Jack  Farley's  flying  switch. — Out  on  the  road. — 
The  engineer's  white  hair. — A  running  switch. — A  perpendicular  railroad. — The  wreck 
at  Roubideau. — The  black  fliers. — The  fighting  manager. — The  passing  of  Mclvor. — A 
sympathy  strike. — A  railway  emergency. — Railroading  in  France. — "Ar'  ye  woth  it?" — -A 
Roumanian  romance. — Opening  of  the  Alpine  tunnel. — On  the  blacklist.— The  first  train 
over  the  bridge. — Fanny  and  the  fireman. 

Stories  of  railroad  life. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  363 

Warman,  Cy.  j  656.673  W23 

Story  of  the  railroad.    1903.    Appleton.     (Story  of  the  West  series.) 

"When  I. think  how  the  railroad  has  been  pushed  through  this  unwatered  wilder- 
ness and  haunt  of  savage  tribes;  how,  at  each  stage  of  the  construction,  roaring,  im- 
promptu cities.  .  .sprang  up  and  then  died  away  again.  .  .how  the  plumed  hereditary  lord 
of  all  America  heard  in  this  last  fastness  the  scream  of  the  'Bad  Medicine  Wagon' 
charioting  his  foes... it  seems  to  me,  I  own,  as  if  this  railway  were  the  one  typical 
achievement  of  the  age  in  which  we  live."     Robert  Louis  Stevenson. 

Warman,  Cy.  j  W232W 

The  white  mail.    Scrihner. 

How  a  flagman  became  a  railroad  president. 

Warner,  Charles  Dudley.  j  814  W23a 

A-hunting  of  the  deer,  and  other  essays.     1888.     Houghton. 

Other  essays:     How  I  killed  a  bear. — Lost  in  the  woods. — Camping  out. — A  wilder- 
ness romance. — What  some  people  call  pleasure. 
Biographical  sketch  of  Warner,  p. 3-5. 

Warner,  Charles  Dudley.  j  817  W23 

Being  a  boy.     1894.    Houghton. 

Boy-life  in  New  England.  As  the  author  says,  "One  of  the  best  things  in  the 
world  to  be  is  a  boy;  it  requires  no  experience,  though  it  needs  some  practice  to  be  a 
good  one." 

Illustrations  from  photographs  by  Clifton  Johnson. 

Warner,  Charles  Franklin.  j  747  W23 

Home  decoration.  1911.  Doubleday.  (Children's  library  of  work 
and  play.) 

Contents:  Introductory:  The  story  of  a  house. — Decorations  and  furniture. — Pic- 
tures.— The  arrangement  of  flowers. — Decorative  fabrics. — Dress  and  the  principles  of 
decoration. — Furniture  making. — Finishing  and  re-finishing. — Hand  weaving. — Pottery. 
— Decorative  work  in  leather,  copper  and  other  materials. — Concluding  suggestions: 
Country  homes. 

Warner,  Hannah,  pseud.    Sec  Jewett,  John  Howard. 

Warren,  Henry  Pelt,  ed.  j  942  W24 

Stories  from  English  history  from  B.C.  55  to  A.  D.  iyoi.  [906. 
Heath. 

Maps  and  pictures. 

Warren,  Mrs  Maude  Lavinia  (Radford),  comp.  j  398.25  W24 

King  Arthur  and  his  knights;  illustrated  by  W.J.  Enright.  1905. 
Rand. 

Stories  from  Malory's  "Morte  Darthur"  and  Tennyson's  "Idylls  of  the  ki iik - "  De- 
signed as  a  reading  book  for  fifth  and  sixth  grades. 

Washburne,  Mrs  Marion  (Foster).  j  398.097  W27 

Indian  legends,  with  an  introduction  by  A.  C.   Henderson;  illustra 

tions  by  Frederick  Richardson.     1915.     Rand. 

Contents:     The   flight   from    the   fourth    to    the    fifth    world.      Coyote    and    the    beai 

maiden. —  Scarf  ace;    a    story    of    love   and    medicine,   -Tulchuhei  •    ice    king.  - 

How  the  bear  family  got  its  name. — Hawt  ;  or.  The  great   world  concert. 

"Suggestions  to  teachers,"  p.  143-143;  "Books  about  American   Indians,"  p.  1  11.  by 

A.  C.  Henderson. 

Washington,  Booker  Taliaferro.  j  92  W2722 

Up  from  slavery;  an  autobiography.     1901.     Doubleday, 
Boyhood  days  of  Booker  T.  Washington,  Ins  Btruggle  for  an  education  and  Ids  life- 
work  in  connection  with  Normal  and    [ndu  titute. 


364  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Washington,  George.  j  92  W272 

Rules  of  conduct,  diary  of  adventure,  letters  and  farewell  addresses. 

1887.  Houghton. 

Contents:  Washington's  rules. — A  dangerous  errand. — With  Gen.  Braddock. — A 
Virginia  planter. — Commander-in-chief. — In  camp  at  Cambridge. — Mr  Washington  or 
Gen.  Washington. — At  Valley  Forge. — Farewell  to  the  army. — Farewell  address  to  the 
people  of  the  United  States. 

Waters,  Mrs  Clara   (Erskine)    Clement.     Sec  Clement,  Mrs   Clara 

(Erskine). 
Watkins,  Dwight  Everett,  &  Williams,  R.  E.  ed.  j  940.919  W31 

Forum  of  democracy.     1918.     Allyn. 

Collection  of  speeches  and  writings  of  statesmen  of  England,  France  and  Amer- 
ica covering  the  years  1914-17. 

Watson,  Henry  Clay.  j  973.3  W31D 

Boston   tea   party,   and   other   stories   of  the   American   revolution. 

1888.  Lothrop. 

Anecdotes  of  personal  daring,  fragments  of  history  and  accounts  of  Revolutionary 
campaigns. 

Watson,  Henry  Clay.  j  92  P395W 

The  great  peacemaker;  a  young  folks'  life  of  William  Penn.     Loth- 
rop. 
Watson,  John  Maclaren,  (pseud.  Ian  Maclaren).  j  W32iy 

Young  barbarians.     Dodd. 

Contents:  "Speug." — Bulldog. — Nestie. — A  famous  victory.- — His  private  capacity. 
— The  disgrace  of  Mr  Byles. — The  count. — A  tournament. — Moossy. — A  last  resource. — 
A  pleasant  sin. — Guerilla  warfare. — The  fall  of  Goliath. — The  bailie's  double. — The 
triumph  of  the  seminary. — Bulldog's  recompense. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "A  Scots  grammar  school." 

Watts,  Isaac.  j  821  W33 

Divine   and   moral   songs   for   children    [with   coloured   pictures   by 

Mrs  Arthur  Gaskin].    Mathews. 

j  355  W35 

Weapons  of  modern  warfare;  history  and  description  of  weapons  now 

in  use  on  land,  sea  and  air,  modern  fortifications,  United  States  army 

and   navy,   titles   and   insignia   of  officers   of  United   States   army   and 

navy.     1917.     Continental  (Fire)   Insurance  Co. 

Weatherly,  Frederick  Edward.  j  W36ib 

Book  of  gnomes.    Nister. 

A  picture-book  of  elves  and  gnomes  and  merry  sprites. 

"Oh,   the  dewy   Daylight,   peeping   through   the   glen, 
Looking  for  a  sign  of  the  wee  wee  men  ! 
Where  did  she  find  them?  what  did  they  say 
As  she  came  a-dancing  down  the  woodland  way?" 

Weaver,  Eli  Witwer,  &  Byler,  J.  F.  j  174  W36 

Profitable  vocations  for  boys.     1915.     Barnes. 
Contains  numerous  bibliographies. 

Helpful  suggestions  on  the  choice  of  an  occupation  and  the  best  methods  of  prepara- 
tion for  success. 

Webb  Publishing  Co.  pub.  j  636.5  W36 

Poultry  houses,  coops  and  equipment.     1909.     Webb  Pub.  Co. 
Articles  by  various  authors  telling  about  the  location  and  construction  of  practical 

poultry  houses.     Describes  much  convenient  and  up-to-date  equipment  and  gives  floor 

plans,  and  diagrams  showing  location  of  roosts,  nests,   etc. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  365 

Webster,  Daniel.  j  815  W38 

Daniel  Webster  for  young  Americans,  with  an  introduction  and 
notes  by  C.  F.  Richardson  and  an  essay  on  Webster  as  a  master  of 
English  style  by  E.  P.  Whipple.     1903.     Little. 

Contains  The  reply  to  Hayne. — The  Bunker  Hill  monument. — Character  of  Wash- 
ington.— The  landing  at  Plymouth. — The  formation  and  preservation  of  the  Union,  and 
other  great  speeches  of  "the  Defender  of  the  Constitution."  To  these  are  added  the 
Declaration  of  independence,  the  constitution  of  the  United  States  and  Washington's 
farewell  address. 

Weed,  Clarence  Moores,  comp.  j  598.2  W42 

Bird   life   stories;   comp.   from   the   writings   of   Audubon,    Bendire, 

Nuttall  and  Wilson,     v.i.     1904.     Rand. 

Short  accounts  of  the  appearance  and  habits  of  the  bluebird,  robin,  chickadee  and 

other  common   birds.      Selections  are  from  authors  noted   for  the   interest   with   which 

they  studied  bird  life.     Colored  plates. 

Weed,  Clarence  Moores,  ed,  j  595.7  W42i 

Insect  world;  a  reading  book  of  entomology.     1899.     Appleton. 
Selections  from  authorities  on  the  habits  and  life  histories  of  insects. 

Weed,  Clarence  Moores.  j  595-7  W42 

Life  histories  of  American  insects.     1906.     Macmillan. 

About  beetles,  crickets,  moths  and  butterflies,  wasps,  hornets  and  other  insects. 
The  author  has  especially  studied  many  of  the  species  described. 

Weed,  Clarence  Moores.  j  595.7  W42n 

Nature  biographies.     1901.     Doubleday. 

Lives  of  some  every-day  butterflies,  moths,  grasshoppers  and  flies.  150  photo- 
graphic illustrations  by  the  author. 

Weed,  Clarence  Moores,  &  Emerson,  Philip.  j  716.6  W42 

School  garden  book.     1909.     Scribner. 

Pt.i  tells  of  the  flowers  and  vegetables  in  season  and  outlines  the  work  for  each 
month  from  September  to  August;  pt.2  gives  detailed  exercises  in  the  processes  of 
window-box  and  garden  making.  There  are  brief  histories  and  descriptions  of  many 
varieties  of  familiar  plants,   with  suggestions  as  to  their  use.     Attractively   illustrated. 

Condensed  from  Booklist,  lyio. 

Weed,  Clarence  Moores,  &  Murtfeldt,  M.  E.  j  595.7  W42S 

Stories  of  insect  life,  ist-2d  ser.     2v.     1897-99.     Ginn. 
Designed  for  use  as  a  reading-book.     The  first  series  is  for  spring  and  earl] 

mer,  the  second  series  for  summer  and  autumn. 

Wells,  Carolyn.  j  W4943S 

Story  of  Betty.     Century. 
Betty  is  a  small  Irish  servant  maid  who  inherits  a  fortune. 

Wells,  Herbert  George.  j  793  W49 

Floor  games.     [1911.]     Palmer. 

Tells  what  toys  to  have  and  c,f  the  games  that  1 1 1 . 1  >  be  played  with  them.  Pictures 
illustrating  the  game  of  the  wonderful  islands,  the  building  of  cities,  funiculars,  towers 

and  castles. 

Wells,  Herbert  George.  j  793-9  W49I 

Little  wars;  a  game   lor  boys   from    i-'  years  «>i  age   X"    1511  .iikI   for 

that  more  intelligent  sort  of  girls  \\li<>  like  boys'  games  and  books. 

1913.     Small. 

Details  and  rules  for  playing  the  floor  game  invented  by  the  author,  with 

scription  of  "the  battle  of  Hook's  farm."     Photographic  illusti 


366  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Welsh,  Charles,  ed.  j  808.8  W51 

Key  to  the  treasure  house;  a  book  of  reference  containing  complete 
indexes,  a  pronouncing  vocabulary,  notes  on  literary  sources,  and  on 
names,  places,  events,  references  and  allusions  in  the  Young  folks'  li- 
brary [new  series].  1902.  Hall  &  Locke.  (Young  folks'  library,  new 
ser.  v.21.) 

Western  frontier  stories;  retold  from  St.  Nicholas.    Century.      j  W567 

Contents:  A  race  with  Idaho  robbers,  by  Joaquin  Miller. — On  a  mountain  trail, 
by  H.  P.  Robinson. —  The  Rocky  mountain  sheep,  by  Mary  Austin. —  How  Ernest 
saved  the  herd,  by  Wilder  Grahame. — Burros,  by  C.  G.  Morton. — The  deer-star,  by 
Mary  Austin. — A  prairie  home,  by  Maurice  Thompson. — When  it  rained  buffaloes,  by 
L.  B.  Miller. — "Ben,"  by  H.  S.  Canfield. — Mark  Twain's  big  namesake,  by  F.  M. 
Chapman. — In  a  ring  of  fire,  by  F.  H.  Kellogg. — Hemmed  in  with  the  chief,  by  F.  W. 
Calkins. — The  skee-hunters,  by  C.  F.  Holder. — Storm  bound  above  the  clouds,  by 
Frederick  Funston. — "Westward  the  course  of  empire  takes  its  way." — A  little  Indian 
school,  by  T.  R.  Porter. 

Weyman,  Stanley  John.  j  Ws86g 

Gentleman  of  France.     Longmans. 

Adventurous  and  romantic  story  of  a  soldier  of  fortune  in  the  days  of  the  League 
and  Henry  of  Navarre. 

Weyman,  Stanley  John.  j  Ws86h 

House  of  the  Wolf.    Longmans. 

An  adventure  of  knight-errantry  in  the  reign  of  Charles  IX  of  France,  and  the 
perils  of  Anne,  vicomte  de  Caylus,  during  that  night  of  horror  which  followed  the  eve 
of  St.  Bartholomew,  1572. 

Weyman,  Stanley  John.  j  W586I 

Long  night.     Longmans. 

Romantic  story  of  old  Geneva  dealing  with  a  daring  plot  of  Savoy  to  get  posses- 
sion of  the  town  and  ending  with  the  famous  attack  of  1602,  which  is  known  as  the 
Escalade.  The  hero  is  a  young  student  and  the  heroine  a  girl  in  danger  of  being  ac- 
cused of  witchcraft. 

Weyman,  Stanley  John.  j  Ws86my 

My  lady  Rotha.     Longmans. 

Story  of  Germany  and  the  Thirty  years'  war.  "My  Lady"  is  Countess  of  Heritz- 
burg,  and  her  faithful  steward  tells  of  her  flight  from  the  besieged  castle,  of  the  perilous 
journey  and  the  guerdon  won  by  Count  Hugo  of  Leuchtenstein. 

Weyman,  Stanley  John.  j  W586S 

Story  of  Francis  Cludde.     Longmans. 

Exciting  adventures  of  three  fugitives  in  the  troublesome  times  of  Queen  Mary. 
The  scene  is  laid  alternately  in  England,  the  Netherlands  and  the  Rhenish  Palatinate. 

Weyman,  Stanley  John.  j  W586U 

Under  the  red  robe.     Longmans. 

A  tale  of  the  days  of  Cardinal  Richelieu,  in  which  Gil  de  Berault  redeems  his 
honor. 

Wheeler,  Charles  Gardner.  j  684  W61 

Woodworking  for  beginners.     1900.     Putnam. 

"A  book  for  the  older  boys  who  really  wish  to  make  things  successfully  and  like 
a  workman."  It  contains  a  great  variety  of  designs,  with  detailed  and  practical  direc- 
tions for  their  execution. 

Wheeler,  Daniel  Edwin.  j  92  L715W 

Abraham  Lincoln.  1916.  Macmillan.  (True  stories  of  great  Amer- 
icans.) 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  367 


Wheeler,  Francis  Rolt-.    See  Rolt-Wheeler,  Francis. 

Wheeler,  Harold  Felix  Baker.  j  92  K297W 

The  boys'  life  of  Lord  Kitchener.     [  1916. ]     Crowell. 

Chiefly  a  narrative  of  war,  of  Gordon  ami  the  Mahdi  and  the  Khartoum  campaign, 
of  Briton  and  Boer  in  South  Africa,  of  the  first  years  of  the  European   war. 

Wheeler,  Harold  Felix  Baker.  j  92  R536W 

The  boys'  life  of  Lord  Roberts.     [1915.]     Crowell. 

"Account  of  his  long  years  of  service  beginning  in  India  before  the  Mutiny,  con- 
tinuing through  the  Boer  War  and  down  to  his  inspection  of  the  Indian  troops  in 
France  in   November,    1914."     Booklist,  1916. 

Maps  of  India  and  South  Africa,  and   17  illustrations. 

Wheeler,  Harold  Felix  Baker.  j  92  N129W 

The  boys'  Napoleon.     [1910.]     Crowell. 

Follows  the  life  of  the  young  Bonaparte  as  school  boy,  as  sub-lieutenant  and  as  an 
officer  in  Paris  during  the  Terror.  Also  tells  of  Napoleon's  later  career,  giving  de- 
scriptions of  his  great  battles  and  an  account  of  the  events  which  placed  him  on  the 
throne  of  France,  made  him  arbiter  for  a  time  of  the  affairs  of  Europe  and  then  con- 
signed him  to  captivity   on  an  English  island.      Illustrated. 

Wheeler,  Harold  Felix  Baker.  j  940.915  W61 

Stirring  deeds  of  Britain's  sea-dogs  in  the  great  war.  1916.  Harrap. 
From  the  beginning  of  the  European  war  to  the  sea   fight  off  Jutland.     Chapters 

on  submarines,  mines  and  the  work  of  the  mine-sweepers. 

Wheeler,  Harold  Felix  Baker. 

Story  of  Napoleon.    See  his  The  boys'  Napoleon. 

Same   work  published  under  both  titles. 

Wheeler,  Post,  ed.  j  398  W61 

Russian  wonder  tales,  with  a  foreword  on  the  Russian  skazki,  con- 
taining 12  of  the  famous  Bilibin  illustrations  in  color.  1912.  Century. 
Contents:  Tzar  Saltan. — Wassilissa  the  Beautiful. — The  little  humpbacked  horse. 
— Tzarevich  Ivan,  the  glowing  bird  and  the  grey  wolf. — Maria  Morevna. — Martin  the 
peasant's  son. — The  feather  of  Finist  the  Falcon. — The  frog-tzarevna. — Schmat-Razum, 
—  Little   Bear's-Son. — Wassily  the  Unlucky. — Tzarevich   Petr  and   the   wizard. 

Wheeler,  William  Reginald,  ed.  j  821.08  W61 

A  book  of  verse  of  the  great  war,  with  a  foreword  by  C.  M.  Lewis. 
19 1 7.     Vale  University  Press. 

Wheelock,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Marian.  j  782.2  W61 

Stories  of  Wagner  operas  for  children.     iyio.     Bobbs. 
Contents:     The  master  singers  of  Nuremberg. — The  flying  Dutchman. —  Lohengrin, 

— The   Rhinegold.— The   Walkyrics.-  -Siegfried.-    The  dusk   of   the  gods. — Tannli ail 
Tristan  and    Isolde. — Parsifal. 

Whishaw,  Frederick  J.  j  W626b 

Boris,  the  bear-hunter.     Nelson. 

Boris  was  .'i  brave  and   stalwart   young    Russian    who   I  I   with   tin- 

czar,  Peter  the  Great,  and  followed  him  in  his  varying  fortunes. 

Whitcomb,  Clara  E.  &  George,  M.  M.  j  914.5  W62 

Little  journeys  to  Italy,  Spain  and  Portugal.    1902.    Flanagan.    (Li 

brary  of  travel. ) 

Contents:     Little  journey  to   Italy,  bj    I     E,   Whitcomb.     Spain  and   Portugal,  bj 

M.  M.    George. 


368  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Whitcomb,  Clara  E.  &  George,  M.  M.  j  914.1  W62 

Little  journeys  to  Scotland  and  Ireland,  for  intermediate  and  upper 

grades.     1901.     Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

Contents:     Scotland,   by   C.  E.    Whitcomb. — Ireland,   by   M.  M.    George. 

About  the  habits,  customs,   conditions,  etc.   of   the  people  as  seen  in   their  homes 

and  daily  occupations. 

White,  Eliza  Orne.  j  W632M 

The  blue  aunt;  illustrated  by  Katharine  Pyle.     Houghton. 
Little   Evelyn    West   and   her   brother   have   a   happy    summer   the  year   the   "blue 

aunt"   comes  to  visit  them.      She  has  many   delightful   plans  for  the  children   and  they 

help  her  in  relief  work  for  the  French  orphans. 

White,  Eliza  Orne.  j  W632b 

A  borrowed  sister.     Houghton. 

How  Jessie  Matthews  went  to  live  with  "the  only  child,"  Lois  Page,  and  of  the 
good  times  they  had  together. 

White,  Eliza  Orne.  j  W632e 

Ednah  and  her  brothers.     Houghton. 

"Ednah  had  three  brothers,  but  on  rainy  days  it  seemed  sometimes  as  if  she  had 
six." 

White,  Eliza  Orne.  j  W632I 

A  little  girl  of  long  ago.    Houghton. 

Marietta  Hamilton's  doings  at  home  and  school  with  brothers,  sisters,  friends  and 
dolls;  a  story  of  child  life  in  Boston  about  1830. 

White,  Eliza  Orne.  j  W632W 

When  Molly  was  six.     Houghton. 

A  year's  record  of  Molly's  life  with  a  chapter  for  every  month  of  the  year. 

White,  Jennie  R.  &  Smith,  Adelaide.  j  916.8  W63I 

A  little  journey  to  South  Africa  and  up  the  east  coast.  1908. 
Flanagan.     (Library  of  travel.) 

Earlier  edition  has  title  "South  Africa  today"   (j  916.8  W63). 

Tells  about  the  diamond  mines  at  Kimberley,  the  Victoria  falls,  the  great  bridge 
over  the  Zambesi,  the  railroads,  the  Boer  war,  the  farm  life  and  the  cities.  Also  de- 
scribes a  journey  up  the  east  coast  of  Africa  and  through  the  Suez  canal  to  Port  Said. 

White,  Jessie  Braham.  j  812  W63 

Snow  White  and  the  seven  dwarfs;  a  fairy  tale  play  based  on  the 
story  of  the  brothers  Grimm,  with  music  by  Edmond  Rickett  and  illus- 
trations by  C.  B.  Falls.     1913.     Dodd. 

White,  John  Stuart,  ed.  j  888  H47b 

Boys'  and  girls'  Herodotus.    1894.    Putnam. 

This  history  tells  of  that  "wonderful  story  in  the  annals  of  men,  when  all  Asia 
united  in  one  endless  array  to  crush  the  states  of  Greece ;  when  armies  bridged  the 
seas  and  navies  sailed  through  mountains;  when  proud,  stubborn-hearted  men.  .  .staked 
their  lives  and  homes  against  the  overwhelming  power  of  a  foreign  despot,  till  Heaven 
itself  sympathized  with  their  struggles,  and  the  winds  and  waves  delivered  their  coun- 
try, and  opened  the  way  to  victory  and  revenge."     Preface. 

White,  John  Stuart,  ed.  j  570  P69 

Boys'  and  girls'  Pliny.     1885.     Putnam. 

Parts  of  Pliny's  "Natural  history"  giving  his  ideas  of  the  earth,  of  man,  of  ani- 
mals, plants  and  metals  and  the  history  of  art.  A  few  of  the  chapters  are,  The  Hyper- 
boreans.— Mount  Atlas. — Wonderful  feats  performed  by  lions. — The  Egyptian  apis. — 
The  forms  of  the  tritons  and  nereids. — Strange  and  fabulous  birds. — The  origin  of  gold 
rings. — Obelisks. 

Large  print  with  52  illustrations. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  369 

White,  Lucy  Cecil.     See  Lillie,  Mrs  Lucy  Cecil  (White). 

White,  Marcus,  cotnp.  j  821.08  W63 

Collection  of  poetry  for  school  reading.     1899.     Macmillan. 
For  the  most  part  old  favorites,  such  as  Song  of  Marion's  men. — Landing  of  the 
Pilgrims. — John    Gilpin. — Loss   of   the   Royal   George. — Young   Lochinvar. — Abou    Ben 
Adhem. — Sheridan's   ride. — Bugle   song. — Horatius. — Battle   of   Waterloo. 

White,  Mary.  j  793  W63D 

Book  of  games.     1905.     Scribner. 

A  book  of  indoor  games,  including  a  few  for  special  occasions,  such  as  St.  Valen- 
tine's day  and  Washington's  birthday. 

White,  Mary.  j  689  W63 

How  to  do  beadwork.     1904.     Doubleday. 

Clear  and  simple  directions  for  making  beadwork  chains,  belts,  bags,  purses, 
candle-shades  and  other  fancy  articles. 

White,  Mary.  j  689  W63h 

How  to  make  baskets.     1906.     Doubleday. 

A  practical  guide,  giving  descriptions  of  materials  and  tools,  and  detailed  direc- 
tions for  the  different  kinds  of  weaving.  Includes  a  chapter  on  "What  the  basket 
means  to  the  Indian,"  by  Neltje  Blanchan.  Many  illustrations,  particularly  of  fine 
specimens  of  Indian  work. 

White,  Mary.  j  689  W631T1 

More  baskets,  and  how  to  make  them.     1907.     Doubleday. 
Treats   of  more   advanced   basket-making   than    "How   to   make   baskets."      Shapes 

and  weaves  of  greater  beauty  and  intricacy  are  described,  with  new  appliances,  unusual 

materials,  the  making  of  mats,  chair  seats,  etc. 

White,  Stewart  Edward.  j  W636b 

Blazed  trail.     Grosset.     (Every  boy's  library;  boy  scout  edition.) 
Stirring  story  of  the  Michigan  lumber  camps  and  of  the  hero's  fight  with  a  power- 
ful lumber  company  that  is  making  big  steals  far  up  in  the  Michigan  wilderness. 

White,  Stewart  Edward.  j  W6361T1 

Magic  forest;  a  modern  fairy  story.     Macmillan. 

A  boy's  experiences  among  the  Ojibway   Indians. 
Whitehead,  Albert  Carlton.  j  W639S 

The  standard  bearer.     Amer.  Book  Co. 

Story  of  army  life  in  the  time  of  Caesar,  the  standard  bearer  being  he  who  boldly 
led  the  legions  at  the  first  landing  in   Britain. 

Whitehead,  Mrs  Jane  Byrd  (McCall)  Radcliffe-,  ed.  qj  784.4  W63 

Folk-songs  and  other  songs  for  children.     1903.     Ditson, 

English,  Scottish,  Irish,  German,  French,  Scandinavian,  Polish,  Russian,  Italian 
and  Spanish  folk-songs,  also  Christmas  carols,  patriotic  songs,  nursery  songs,  lullabies, 
rounds,  catches  and  part-songs  for  children. 

Whitham,  G.  I.  j  942  W64 

Captive  royal  children.      [  191 1 . ]      Gardner. 

True  stories  of  English  royal  children  who  Buffered  captivity, 

Whitham,  G.I.  J  W645S 

Shepherd   of   the   ocean,   and   other   talcs   of   valour;    illustrated    by 

Norman  Ault.    Stokes. 

other  tales:     Bertrand,  "Le  diamant  brut."     Pride  of  the  West.— The  glory  of  his 

day. — The  way  to  Jerusalem. 

The  first  story  is  supposed  to  be  told  by  one  of  the  Careys  who  sailed  with  Sir 

Walter  Raleigh  in  search  of  l.l   Dorado.     Bertrand  du  Gueaclin,  constable  of  Prance, 

Jack  Granville  who  served  ('barks  II,  Sir  Philip  Sidney  and  Richard  the  Lion-hearted 

are  the  heroes  of  the  other  ta 


370  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Whitney,  Mrs  Adeline  Dutton  (Train).  j  W6sif 

Faith  Gartney's  girlhood.    Houghton. 

New  England  story,  tracing  the  life  and  growth  from  girlhood  to  womanhood  of 
Faith  Gartney  and  containing  something  of  the  thought  and  life  that  lie  between  14 
and  20. 

Whitney,  Mrs  Adeline  Dutton  (Train).  j  W6.5iot 

The  other  girls.    Houghton. 
Fourth  volume  of  "Real  folks  series."     Follows  "Real  folks." 

Whitney,  Mrs  Adeline  Dutton  (Train).  j  W651X 

Real  folks.     Houghton. 

Two  orphan  sisters  are  adopted ;  one  into  a  family  where  luxury  abounds,  the 
other  into  a  simple  country  home.     Follows  "We  girls." 

Whitney,  Mrs  Adeline  Dutton  (Train).  j  W651S 

Summer  in  Leslie  Goldthwaite's  life.     Houghton. 

A  summer  in  the  White  mountains.  "This  is  a  lovely  story,  full  of  sweet  and 
tender  feeling,  kindly  Christian  philosophy,  and  noble  teaching.  It  is  pleasantly 
spiced,  too,  with  quaint  New  England  characters  and  their  odd,  shrewd  reflections." 
Followed  by  "We  girls,"  "Real  folks,"  "Other  girls." 

Whitney,  Mrs  Adeline  Dutton  (Train).  j  W651W 

We  girls.    Houghton. 

Home  life  of  three  New  England  girls.  Several  characters  introduced  in  "Summer 
in  Leslie  Goldthwaite's  life"  reappear. 

Whitney,  Caspar.  j  917.12  W65 

On  snow-shoes  to  the  barren  grounds;  2800  miles  after  musk-oxen 
and  wood-bison.     1896.    Harper. 

"Far  to  the  northwest,  beginning  ten  days'  journey  beyond  Great  Slave  Lake  and 
running  down  to  the  Arctic  Ocean  with  Hudson's  Bay  as  its  eastern  and  Great  Bear 
Lake  and  the  Coppermine  River  as  its  western  boundaries,  lies  the  most  complete  and 
extended  desolation  on  earth.     That  is  the  Barren  Grounds."     Chapter  1. 

Many  illustrations. 

Whitney,  Edson  Leone,  &  Perry,  F.  M.  j  970.2  W65 

Four  American  Indians;  King  Philip,  Pontiac,  Tecumseh,  Osceola; 
a  book  for  young  Americans.  1904.  Amer.  Book  Co.  (Four  great 
Americans  series.) 

Whittier,  John  Greenleaf,  ed.  j  821.08  W66 

Child  life;  poems.     1871.     Houghton. 

Poems  for  and  about  children.  Arranged  under  the  headings,  Infancy. — Out  of 
doors. — Legendary. — Pictures,   fancies   and   memories. — Miscellaneous. — Hymns. 

Whittier,  John  Greenleaf,  ed.  j  W66ic 

Child  life  in  prose.     Houghton. 

Stories,  fancies  and  memories  of  child  life  selected  from  different  prose  writers. 
Among  others,  contains  The  cruise  of  the  Dolphin. — Boots  at  the  Holly-tree  inn. — The 
fish  I  didn't  catch. — The  baby  of  the  regiment. — A  young  Mahometan. — The  story 
without  an  end. — The  hen  that  hatched  ducks. — The  immortal  fountain. 

Whittier,  John  Greenleaf.  j  811  W66c 

Complete  poetical  works.     1895.     Houghton. 

Some  of  the  favorites  are,  Barbara  Frietchie. — In  school-days. — The  barefoot  boy. 
— Maud    Muller. — Songs    of    labor. — Mabel     Martin. — The    angels    of    Buena    Vista. — 
Skipper  Ireson's  ride. — The  pipes  at  Lucknow. — The  swan  song  of  Parson  Avery. 
"There   is   Whittier,   whose  swelling  and  vehement   heart 
Strains   the  strait-breasted  drab  of  the   Quaker  apart, 
And  reveals  the  live  Man." 

Lowell. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  371 

Whittier,  John  Greenleaf.  j  811  W66S3 

Snow-bound,  Among  the  hills,  Songs  of  labor,  and  other  poems. 

1898.     Houghton.      (Riverside   literature   series.) 

Other  poems:     The  barefoot  boy. — How  the  robin  came. — Telling  the  bees.—  S 

fern. — The  poor  voter  on  election  day. — The  hill-top. — The  prayer  of  Agassiz. 
Biographical  sketch,  p. 5-20. 

Wide  world.     1903.    Ginn.     (Youth's  companion  series.)  j  910  W67 

About  the  life  of  children  in  foreign  lands. 

Partial  contents:  Barbarian  babies. — Some  little  Egyptians. — A  school  in  Cairo. — 
Dutch  children.- — Boys  and  girls  of  Paris.— South  American  games. — A  visit  to  Swe- 
den.— May  day  in  England. 

Widor,  Charles  Marie,  comp.  j  784.8  W670 

Old  songs  and  rounds  for  little  children;  pictures  in  color  by  Boutet 
de  Monvel.     1912.     [Duffield.] 

Contains   English  translation   of  the  songs  as  well  as   the  French  text. 

Widor,  Charles  Marie,  comp.  j  784.8  W67 

Vieilles  chansons  pour  les  petits  enfants;  avec  accompagnements  de 
C.  M.  Widor;  illustrations  par  M.  Boutet  de  Monvel. 

English  translation  has  title  "Old  songs  and  rounds  for  little  children." 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  aftenvard  Mrs  Riggs.  j  W688b 

Birds'  Christmas  Carol.     Houghton. 

Story  of  little  Carol  Bird,  who  was  born  on  Christmas  day,  and  of  Sarah  Maud, 
Peoria,  Cornelius,  Baby  Larry  and  the  rest  of  the  nine  little  Rugglcscs,  who  went  to 
her  Christmas  dinner-party. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs.  j  793.1  W68 

Birds'  Christmas  Carol;  dramatic  version  [written]  in  collaboration 
with  Helen  Ingersoll.     1914.    Houghton. 

In  three  acts,  with  a  prologue.  Introduction  gives  suggestions  for  producing  the 
play. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  aftenvard  Mrs  Riggs.  j  92  D551W 

A  child's  journey  with  Dickens.     1912.     Houghton. 

Vivid  account  of  the  author's  chance  meeting  with  Dickens  on  a  railway  journey 
when  she  was  a  little  girl. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  aftenvard  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  398  W68f 

Smith,  N.  A.  cd. 

The  fairy  ring.     1911.     Doubleday. 

"Once  upon  a  time"  stories  from  the  enchanted  land  of  faery. 

"Let  us  climb  the  gilded  linden  tree  and  capture  the  Golden  Bird.  Let  us  plunge 
into  the  heart  of  the  Briar  Wood  where  the  Rose  o'  the  World  lies  Bleeping.  ..and 
mount  the  back  of  the  North  Wind  and  search  for  the  castle  that  lies  East  o"  the  Sun 
and  West  o'  the  Moon."     Preface. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  821.08  W68g 

Smith,  N.  A.  comp. 
Golden  numbers,  with  introduction  and  interleaves  by  K.  1).  Wiggin. 
1903.     Doubleday. 

A  book  of  English  verse  for  boys  and  girls.  The  poems  are  arranged  under  the 
headings,  A  chanted  calendar. — The  world  beautiful.  Green  things  growing.  On  the 
wing. — The  inglenook. — Fairy  songs  and  songs  of  fancy. — Sports  and  pastimes. — A 
garden  of  girls. — The  world  of  waters.-    I  ind  country.  —  New   World  an d   Old 

Glory. —  In    merry    mood. — Story    poems. — When    1  waving.  —  Tales    of    the 

olden  time. — Life  lessons. — The  glad  evangel. 

"Then    read    from    t!  !     volume 

The  poem  of  thy  ch< 


3/2  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs.  j  W688pe 

Penelope's  progress;  such  extracts  from  the  commonplace  book  of 
Penelope  Hamilton  as  relate  to  her  experiences  in  Scotland.  Hough- 
ton. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  821.08  W68p 

Smith,  N.  A.  ed. 
Pinafore  palace;  a  book  of  rhymes  for  the  nursery.     1907.     Double- 
day. 

Mother  Goose  rhymes,  nonsense  verses,  guessing  games,  lullabies  and  slumber 
songs. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs.  j  W688p 

Polly  Oliver's  problem.     Houghton. 

Appeared  in   "St.   Nicholas,"  v. 20,   Nov.    1892-May    1893. 

Polly  Oliver  is  an  especially  bright  girl  whose  problem  is  how  to  earn  a  living  for 
herself,  and  she  solves  it  in  a  most  delightful  way.     Sequel  to  "A  summer  in  a  canon." 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterzvard  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  821.08  W68 

Smith,  N.  A.  comp. 

Posy  ring;  a  book  of  verse  for  children.     1904.     Doubleday. 

A  delightful  book  of  verse.  Arranged  under  the  headings,  A  year's  windfalls. — 
The  child's  world.- — Hiawatha's  chickens. — The  flower  folk. — Hiawatha's  brothers. — 
Other  little  children. — Play-time. — Story  time. — Bed  time. — For  Sunday's  child. — Bells 
of  Christmas. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterzvard  Mrs  Riggs.  j  W688r 

Rebecca  of  Sunnybrook  farm.     Houghton. 

Rebecca  Rowena  Randall  of  Sunnybrook  farm  is  a  fascinating  little  girl  who  does 
all  sorts  of  lively  things  at  home  and  at  boarding-school. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterzvard  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  W688sto 

Smith,  N.  A. 
The  story  hour;  a  book  for  the  home  and  the  kindergarten.   Hough- 
ton. 

Seventeen  stories,  some  of  them  adapted  from  other  authors,  to  tell  to  little  chil- 
dren. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs.  j  W688st 

Story  of  Patsy.     Houghton. 
Humorous  and  touching  story  of  a  poor  deformed   street  boy. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterzvard  Mrs  Riggs.  j  W688s 

Summer  in  a  canon.     Houghton. 
How  Polly  Oliver  and  her  friends  camp  for  a  summer  in  a  California  cation. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterzvard  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  398  W68t 

Smith,  N.  A.  cd. 

Tales  of  laughter;  a  third  fairy  book.     1908.     Doubleday. 

Fairy  and  folk  tales  from  many  lands.  Among  them,  The  mouse  and  the  sau- 
sage.— The  stone  in  the  cock's  head. — The  straw  ox. — Jack  and  the  king  who  was  a 
gentleman.— The  fair  Catherine  and  Pif-paf  Poltrie.— The  three  luck  children.— Here- 
afterthis. — The  lambikin. — Nanny  who  wouldn't  go  home  to  supper. — The  princess 
whom  nobody  could  silence. — Chin-chin  Kobakama.— Story  of  little  black  Mingo. 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterzvard  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  398  W68 

Smith,  N.  A.  ed. 

Tales  of  wonder;  a  fourth  fairy  book.     1909.     Doubleday. 

Stories  of  magic  spells  and  strange  enchantments,  of  dragons,  fair  princesses  and 
brave  young  warriors.  Among  others,  tells  of  the  caliph  and  the  vizier  who  became 
storks,  of  the  unicorn  who  guarded  the  sparkling  golden  water,  of  Schippeitaro,  of  the 
grateful  white  crane  and  of  the  Chinese  emperor's  wonderful  nightingale. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  373 


Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs,  &  j  398.91  W68 

Smith,  N.  A.  ed. 
The  talking  beasts;  a  book  of  fable  wisdom.     191 1.     Doubleday. 

Contents:  Fables  of  yEsop  (Greek). — Fables  of  Bidpai  <  Indian). — Fables  from  the 
Hitopadesa  (Sanskrit). — Fables  from  P.  V.  Ramaswami  Raju  (Indian).  Malayan 
fables. — Moorish  fables. — African  fables. — Fables  from  Krilof  (Russian). —  Fables  from 
the  Chinese. — Fables  of  La  Fontaine  (French). — Fables  from  the  Spanish  of  Carlos 
Vriarte.- — Fables   of   Gay,   Cowper  and   others    (English). 

Wiggin,  Mrs  Kate  Douglas,  afterward  Mrs  Riggs.  j  W688t 

Timothy's  quest.     Houghton. 
Story  of  two  little  waifs  in  search  of  a  home. 

Wilde,  Oscar.  j  W7i4f 

Fairy  tales.     Putnam. 

Contents:  The  happy  prince. — The  young  king. — The  star-child. — The  selfish 
giant. — The  nightingale  and  the  rose. — The  devoted  friend. — The  remarkable  rocket. — 
The  birthday  of  the  infanta. — The  fisherman  and  his  soul. 

Also  published  under  the  title  "The  happy  prince,  and  other   fairy  tales." 

Wiley,  Belle.  j  372.4  W71 

Mother  Goose  primer.     1910.     Merrill. 

Colored  pictures. 
Wilkins,  Alary  Eleanor,  afterward  Mrs  Freeman.  j  W728i 

In  colonial  times.     Lothrop. 

The  adventures  of  Ann,  the  bound  girl  of  Samuel  Wales  of  Braintrec  in  the 
province  of  Massachusetts   Bay.     Contains  also  "The  squire's  sixpence." 

Wilkins,  Mary  Eleanor,  after-ward  Mrs  Freeman.  j  811  W72 

Once  upon  a  time,  and  other  child-verses.     1897.     Lothrop. 

Fairy  poems  and  fairy  pictures. 
Wilkins,  Mary  Eleanor,  afterward  Mrs  Freeman.  j  W728P0 

The  pot  of  gold,  and  other  stories.     Lothrop. 

What  a  little  girl  found  at  the  end  of  a  rainbow.  Contains  also  15  other  stories, 
two  of  them  Christmas  stories. 

Other  stories:  The  cow  with  golden  horns. — Princess  Rosetta  and  the  pop-corn 
man. — The  Christmas  monks. — The  pumpkin  giant. — The  Christmas  masquerade. — 
Dill. — The  silver  hen. — Toby.— The  patchwork  school. — The  squire's  sixpence. — -A 
plain  case. — A  stranger  in  the  village. — The  bound  girl. — Deacon  Thomas  Wales's  will. 
— The  adopted  daughter. 

Wilkins,  Mary  Eleanor,  afterward  Mrs  Freeman.  j  W728y 

Young  Lucretia,  and  other  stories.     Harper. 

Other  stories:  How  Fidelia  went  to  the  store. — Ann  Mary;  her  two  Thanksgivings. 
— Ann  Lizy's  patchwork. — The  little  Persian  princess. — Where  the  Christmas  tree 
grew. — Where  Sarah  Jane's  doll  went. — Seven  toes'  ghost. — Little  Mirandy,  and  how- 
she  earned  her  shoes. — A  parsnip  stew. — The  Dickey  boy.-  A  Bweet  grass  basket. — 
Mehi table  Lamb. 

Wilkinson,  Andrews.  j  W7292P 

Plantation  stories  of  old  Louisiana,     l'age. 

How    Mr    Lynx   got    his   spotted   io.it   and    Ins    strip  Mi    \\ Ipeckl 

his   red  head,   and  other  stories  of  birds   and   animals   told   to   the   Birdland   twins  by   the 
old  negro  Jason,  "Black   Mammy"  and  the  Creole  governess. 

Wilkinson,  Elizabeth  Hays.  j  811  W729 

The  lane  to  sleepy  town,  and  other  verses.  [910.  Reed.  Pittsburgh, 
Verses  for  little  children.     Among  them,   B03   dreams.     The  fairies      The  land  of 

play. — Story  people.— The  gypsy  child.     Dreamland  bells.     Th< 

The  tin  soldier^.     Shadow  people.     Castles.     The  waiting 

Author  is  a  Pittsburgh  woman  and  the  pictures  an    bj   a  Pittsburgh 


374  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Wilkinson,  Elizabeth  Hays.  j  W729I 

Little  Billy  'Coon.     Reed.     Pittsburgh. 
Story  of  a  raccoon. 

Wilkinson,  Elizabeth  Hays.  j  W729P 

Peter  and  Polly.     Doubleday. 
Story  of  two  kittens  called  Peter  and   Polly.     Colored   pictures. 

Williams,  Archibald.  j  620  W74 

How  it  is  done;  or,  Victories  of  the  engineer,  describing  in  simple 

language  how  great  engineering  achievements  in  all  parts  of  the  world 

have  been  accomplished.     1908.     Nelson. 

Contents:  Railroad  engineering. — A  railway  through  the  sea;  train  ferries. — The 
building  of  a  big  ship. — Bridge  building. — The  foundations  of  a  bridge. — -The  erection 
of  a  trestle  bridge. — Suspension  bridges. — Cantilever  bridges;  the  Forth  bridge. — The 
Blackwell's  island  bridge. — A  terrible  disaster  [Quebec  bridge]. — The  designing  of 
dams. — The  building  of  the  new  Croton  dam. — How  the  Nile  was  curbed. — Some  no- 
table reservoirs. — Aqueducts.- — Canals  and  waterways. — The  Panama  canal;  irrigation 
canals  ;  a  tube  canal. — Harbor  works. — Tunnels  and  tunneling. — Submarine  tunnels. — 
Mining  and  mines. — Power  from   falling  water. 

Williams,  Archibald.  j  670  W74 

How  it  is  made;  describing  in  simple  language  how  various  machines 
and  many  articles  in  common  use  are  manufactured  from  the  raw 
materials.     [1907.]     Nelson. 

Describes  manufacturing  processes  as  carried  on  in  modern  British  works. 

Partial  contents:  How  paper  is  made. — The  building  of  a  piano. — Manufacture  of 
glass. — Round  a  biscuit  factory. — Armour  plates  and  big  guns. — How  a  watch  is  made. 
— In  a  motor-car  factory. — The  cradle  of  a  locomotive. — In  needle  town. — How  wire  is 
made  into  ropes. 

Williams,  Archibald.  j  604  W74a 

How  it  works;  dealing  in  simple  language  with  steam,  electricity, 

light,  heat,  sound,  hydraulics,  optics,  etc.  and  with  their  applications  to 

apparatus  in  common  use.     Ed. 7,  rev.  &  enl.     [1910.]     Nelson. 

Contents:  The  steam-engine. — The  conversion  of  heat  energy  into  mechanical  mo- 
tion.— The  steam  turbine. — The  internal-combustion  engine. — Electrical  apparatus. — 
The  electric  telegraph. — Wireless  telegraphy. — The  telephone.- — Dynamos  and  electric 
motors. — Railway  brakes. — Railway  signalling. — Optics. — The  microscope,  the  tele- 
scope and  the  magic-lantern. — Sound  and  musical  instruments. — Wind  instruments. — 
Talking-machines.- — Why  the  wind  blows. — Hydraulic  machinery. — Heating  and  light- 
ing.— Various    mechanisms. — Airships    and    flying-machines. 

Williams,  Archibald.  j  604  W74I1 

How  to  make  things;  describing  in  simple  language  the  making  of 
objects  of  more  or  less  useful  character.     1913.    Sully. 

Instructions  for  carpentry  work,  simple  scientific  experiments,  the  making  of  elec- 
trical apparatus,  model  engines,  pumps  and  steam  turbines,  a  model  aeroplane,  etc. 
Only  a  moderate  outlay  for  tools  is  required. 

Williams,  Archibald.  j  620  W74r 

Romance  of  modern  engineering.  1910.  Lippincott. 
Contents:  The  harnessing  of  Niagara. — The  taming  of  the  Nile. — Dams  and  aque- 
ducts.— The  Forth  bridge. — The  Tower  bridge. — American  bridges. — The  Trans-Siber- 
ian railway. — Cairo  to  the  Cape. — The  loftiest  railway  in  the  world. — City  railways. — 
The  Severn  tunnel. — The  Simplon  tunnel. — The  Manchester  ship  canal. — The  Panama 
canal. — Harbours  of  refuge. — Ocean  leviathans. — Floating  docks. — The  romance  of 
petroleum. — Artesian  wells. 
Well  illustrated. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  375 

Williams,  Hawley,  pseud.  j  W745W 

The  winning  hit.    Appleton. 

Baseball  story.  Interest  centers  about  the  contest  of  two  boys  for  position  of  first 
baseman  on  a  school  team. 

Williams,  Sarah,  comp.  j  811.08  W74 

Through  the  year  with  birds  and  poets.     1900.     Lothrop. 

Many  poems  about  the  robin,  the  bluebird,  the  bobolink,  the  song-sparrow,  the 
thrush,  the  oriole  and  other  American  birds. 

Williamson,  Margaret.  j  9142  W75 

John  and  Betty's  history  visit.     1910.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  First  impressions. — The  first  evening. — Westminster  abbey.- — Penshurst 
place  ;  the  home  of  Sir  Philip  Sidney. — The  Tower  of  London. — St.  Paul's  cathedral 
and  its  vicinity. — A  Sunday  night  chat. — Windsor  castle,  Stoke  Poges  and  Eton 
school.- — More  about  London. — Richmond  and  Hampton  Court  palace. — Stratford-on- 
Avon. — A  day  in  Warwickshire. — Warwick  and  Kenilworth  castles. — Sherwood  forest 
and  Haddon  hall. — Winchester,  Salisbury  and  Stonehcnge. — Clovelly. — Rochester  and 
Canterbury. — Good-by    to    London. 

Williamson,  Margaret.  j  9M-I5  W75 

John  and  Betty's  Irish  history  visit.     1914.     Lothrop. 
The  children   of  the   English  and  Scotch   "history   visits"   travel   through    Ireland. 
They   ride   in    a   jaunting-car,   see   Blarney   castle,    Killarney,   the    Giant's   causeway    and 
places  associated  with  St.  Patrick,  and  hear  stories  of  fairies  and  spirits,  heroes,  war- 
riors and  kings. 

Williamson,  Margaret.  j  9H-i  W75 

John  and  Betty's  Scotch  history  visit.  1912.  Lothrop. 
After  seeing  the  coronation  of  George  V  and  Queen  Mary  in  London,  John  and 
Betty  with  their  kind  English  friends  travel  through  bonny  Scotland.  They  visit  the 
misty  isle  of  Skye,  Inverness  and  Cawdor  castle,  Lochleven,  Edinburgh,  the  land  of 
Burns,  Hawthornden,  Melrose,  Roslin  and  other  storied  places  and  hear  the  romantic 
legends  and  tales  which  are  associated  with  them. 

Willis,  Sara  Hicks,  &  Farmer,  F.  V.  j  372  W75 

Month  by  month  books.    3V.     1904.     Barnes. 

v. 1.     Autumn, 
v. 2.     Winter, 
v.  3.     Spring. 

Williston,  Teresa  Peirce.  j  398  W75 

Japanese  fairy  tales  retold;   ist-2d  ser.     2v.     1904-11.     Rand. 

v.  1.  The  wonderful  teakettle. — The  wood-cutter's  sake. — The  mirror  of  Matsuyama. 
— The  eight-headed  serpent. — The  stolen  charm. — Urashima. — The  tongue-Cttl  sparrow. 
— Shippeitaro. 

v.2.  The  first  rabbits.— Lord  Bag  of  Rice. — Peach  Darling.-  The  old  man  with  a 
wart. — The  eighty-one  brothers.     Tin-  baml -cutter's  daugl 

illustrated  in  color  by  a  Japanese  artist. 

Wilman,  Stanley  V.  .  QJ  793  W76 

Games  for  playtime  &  parties,  with  &  without  music,  for  children 

of  all  ages;  pictured  by  M.  W.  Tarrant.      [10 15]     J  ark. 

includes  old-time  singing  games,  such  as  Th<-  English  soldiers      The  jolly  miller. 

— Oranges  and  lemons. —  London  l>ri<!v,''    is  broken  down.     The  mulberry  bush.     Many 

pictures,  some  in  color. 

Wilmot-Buxton,  Ethel  M.  j  92  J329W 

Jeanne  d'Arc.     1914.     Stokes.     (Heroes  of  all  time.) 
Interesting  account  of  the  life  and  achievements  of  th<    peasant  maid  who  in   n-'j 

drove  the  foemen  from  the  wall  of  Mi.-  beleaguered  ■  it  %  ..t  Orleans  and  led  the  dauphin 

oi  France  to  his  coronation  in  Rheims.     Frontispieci  ind  other  illustrations  in 

black  and  white. 


376  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Wilmot-Buxton,  Ethel  M.  j  398.2  W76S 

Stories  from  old  French  romance.     [1910.]     Stokes. 

Contents:  The  story  of  Aucassin  and  Xicolette. — The  story  of  Constans  the  em- 
peror.— The  story  of  Roland  and  Oliver. — The  story  of  the  death  of  Roland. — The 
story  of  William  and  the  werwolf. — The  story  of  the  enchanted  knight. — The  story  of 
the  castle  of  Montauban. 

Wilmot-Buxton,  Ethel  M.  j  293  W76 

Stories  of  Norse  heroes  from  the  eddas  and  sagas,  retold.     [1909.] 

Crowell. 

Tales  concerning  the  wisdom  of  All-father  Odin  and  how  he  brought  the  magic 
mead  to  Asgard,  of  wicked  Loki  and  his  wager  with  the  dwarfs,  of  Idun  the  fair  young 
goddess  of  springtime,  of  the  hammer  of  mighty  Thor  and  of  the  sad  fate  of  Baldur 
the  Beautiful.  Also  contains  the  saga  stories  of  Sigurd  and  the  magic  gold  and  of 
Frithjof  the  Bold.     Good  pictures. 

Wilmot-Buxton,  Ethel  M.  j  891.5  W76 

Stories  of  Persian  heroes.     1908.     Crowell. 

Legends  of  the  ancient  kings  of  Persia,  their  battles,  their  victories  and  their 
wonderful  escapes  from  perils  of  every  kind.  Rustem,  their  champion,  is  the  princi- 
pal hero  and  here  one  can  read  how  he  obtained  his  famous  horse  "Rakush,  or  The 
Lightning,"  of  his  adventures  in  the  land  of  the  genii  and  the  sad  story  of  his  son  Soh- 
rab. 

Retold  from  Firdausi's  "Epic  of  kings."     Illustrated. 

Wilmot-Buxton,  Ethel  M.  j  940.4  W76 

Story  of  the  crusades.     [1911.]     Crowell. 

"List  of  books  consulted,"  p. 281. 

Begins  with  the  story  of  Mohammed  the  prophet  and  tells  of  the  spread  of  Islam 
and  the  rise  of  chivalry;  of  Peter  the  hermit,  Bernard  of  Clairvaux  and  Dandolo  the 
blind  doge  ;  of  Richard  the  Lion-Heart  and  his  triumph  at  Acre  and  of  other  adventur- 
ous knights  and  kings  who  took  up  arms  in  the  holy  war. 

Wilson,  Calvin  Dill.  j  398.28  C47W 

Story  of  the  Cid,  for  young  people.     1901.     Lothrop. 
Legendary  story  of  Spain's  national  hero,  famous  for  his  exploits  in  the  wars  with 

the  Moors.     Based  upon  Southey's  "Chronicle  of  the  Cid." 

Wilson,  Gilbert  Livingstone.  j  398.097  W76 

Myths  of  the  red  children  retold.     1907.     Ginn. 

American  Indian  folk  tales.  Among  them,  Wuchowson  the  wind  blower. — Gloo- 
skap  and  the  winter  giant. — The  fisher  who  let  out  summer. — Little  Scar  Face. — How 
the  little  rabbit  snared  the  sun. — The  magic  wigwam. — The  turkey  maiden. — Old  win- 
ter man  and  the  spring  maiden. 

Also  tells  how  to  make  an  Indian  tepee,  bows  and  arrows,  moccasins,  war  bonnet, 
quiver,  etc.     Many  pictures. 

Wilson,  Richard.  j  398  W772 

Russian  story  book,  containing  tales  from  the  song-cycles  of  Kiev 
and  Novgorod  and  other  early  sources,  retold  by  Richard  Wilson,  with 
illustrations  by  F.  C.  Pape.     1916.     Macmillan.     (Ingle  nook  series.) 

How  Ilya  of  Murom,  the  Cossack,  rode  to  royal  Kiev  on  his  first  heroic  quest, 
how  Ivan,  the  son  of  Golden  Tress,  rescued  his  mother  from  the  power  of  Whirlwind 
the  Whistler,  of  the  adventure  of  the  three  roads  and  the  burning  white  stone,  and 
other  stories  of  the  heroes  of  Holy  Russia. 

Winchell,  Alexander.  j  550  W77W 

Walks  and  talks  in  the  geological  field.     1898.     Jacobs. 
The  geological   story  of  the  earth.     There  are  chapters  on  glaciers,   fossils,   geysers, 
volcanoes,  earthquakes,  iron  and  coal,  petroleum  and  natural  gas. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  377 

Winlow,  Clara  Vostrovsky.  j  914.97  W78 

Our  little  Bulgarian  cousin.     1913.     Page.  (Little  cousin  series.  ) 

Ten-year  old   Ljuben   helped  gather   rose-leaves   to  make   perfume,   visited   the  old 

cities  of  Philippopolis  and   Sofia  and  had   merry   times  on   holidays. 

Winlow,  Clara  Vostrovsky.  j  914.71  W78 

Our  little  Finnish  cousin.     1918.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 
Account   of   the    daily    life    of   two    children    in    the    country    of    "forest,   rock,    and 
water,''    introducing   something   of    the    folklore,    the   customs    and   superstitions    of    the 
people. 

Winlow,  Clara  Vostrovsky.  j  914.97  W780 

Our  little  Servian  cousin.     1913.     Page.     (Little  cousin  series.) 

Describes  Easter  and  Christmas  celebrations  and  other  customs  of  the  Servian 
people. 

Winship,  Albert  Edward.  j  677  W78 

Our  industries;  fabrics.     1897.     New  England  Pub.  Co. 

Contents:  Sheep,  wool  and  woolens. — Carpets. — Wool  supply. — Cotton. — Silk. — 
Linens. 

Withington,  Paul,  ed.  j  796  W82 

Book  of  athletics.     1914.     Lothrop. 

Contents:  Introduction. — Football. — Track  athletics. —  Field  athletics. — The  Olym- 
pic games  of  1912. — Baseball. — Rowing. — Hockey. — Lawn  tennis. — Swimming. — Inter- 
collegiate  soccer. — Wrestling. — Lacrosse. — Basketball. — Golf. 

Written  by  players,  captains,  coaches,  and  trainers  of  many  college  teams.  Photo- 
graphic illustrations. 

Witt,  C.  j  883  W82 

Tales  of  Troy;  tr.  by  Charles  De  Garmo.  1898.  Public  School  Pub. 
Co. 

Story  of  Paris  and  Helen,  of  the  assembling  of  the  Greeks  and  of  the  sacrifice  of 
Iphigenia;  also  incidents  selected  from  the  Iliad.     Briefly  and  simply   told. 

Wollaston,  Mary  A.  com  p.  qj  784.8  W84 

Song  play  book;  singing  games  for  children;  ed.  by  C.  W.  Crampton. 
1917.     Barnes. 

Fifty  singing  games  selected  for  their  adaptability  to  class  room  and  playground 
conditions.      Gives  music,   words  and  directions   for  playing. 

Wood,  Carolyn  Douglass.  j  590.4  W85 

Animals;  their  relation  and  use  to  man;  a  nature  study  textbook. 
1912.     Ginn. 

For  grammar  school  grades.  The  common  domestic  animals  or  well  known 
species  are  selected  for  special  study  of  type  forms  and  suggestions  are  given  lor  inde- 
pendent observation.  This  study  is  supplemented  by  reading  lessons  bringing  out  the 
relation  between  the  wild  and  domestic  animals  of  the  same  order.     Well  illustrated. 

Wood,  Charles  Seely.  j  W8520 

On  the  frontier  with  St.  Clair;  a  story  of  the  early  settlement  of  the 

Ohio  country.     Wilde. 

Adventures  of  a  boy  in  the  disastrous  campaign  of  Gen,  St.  flair. 

Wood,  Eric.  j  904  W85 

The  boy's  book  of  battles.     191 3.     Cassell. 

Describes  30  famous  battles,  beginning  with  il"-  defeat  ol  the  Persians  at  Mara 
thon,  490   B.  C.|  and  ending  with  the  naval  engagemi  between   Russia's 

Heel  and  the  Japanese.     Includes  the  battli  ["ours,   Bastings,   Bannockburn,   Pima 

Bey,  Saratoga,  Trafalgar,  Waterloo,  Solferino  and  Gettysburg. 


378  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Wood,  Eric.  j  973.1  W85 

Famous  voyages  of  the  great  discoverers.     [1910.]     Crowell. 

Beginning  with  the  daring  mariners  of  Henry  the  Navigator,  gives  an  account  of 
the  chief  voyages  of  the  15th  and  16th  centuries,  including  those  of  Columbus,  Amerigo 
Vespucci,  Balboa,  Magellan,  Frobisher,   Hudson,   Hawkins  and  Drake. 

Wood,  John  George.  j  590  W85 

Popular  natural  history.     1885.     Winston. 

Contents :     Mammalia. — Birds. — Reptiles. — Fishes. — Invertebrate   animals. 
With  500  illustrations. 

Woodhull,  John  Francis.  j  621.3  W86 

Electricity  and  its  everyday  uses.     1911.     Doubleday.     (Children's 

library  of  work  and  play.) 

Partial  contents:  The  dynamo  and  the  power  station. — -The  electric  motor. — Elec- 
tric heating. — Lighting  a  summer  camp  by  electricity. — How  electricity  feels. — The 
telephone. — Electric  bell  outfit  for  the  cottage. — Using  electricity  to  aid  the  memory. — 
The  electric  brick  oven. — Telegraphy  by  electric  waves. 

Woolsey,  Sarah  Chauncey.    See  Coolidge,  Susan,  pseud. 

Worden,  John  Lorimer,  and  others.  j  973.7  W89 

The  Monitor  and  the  Merrimac;  both  sides  of  the  story,  told  by 

J.  L.  Worden  [and]  Lieut.  Greene  of  the  Monitor,  and  H.  A.  Ramsay, 

chief  engineer  of  the  Merrimac.     1912.     Harper. 

Contains  also  "The  last  of  the  Monitor,"  by  E.  W.  Watson. 

Wordsworth,  William.  j  821  W89C 

Complete  poetical  works  [ed.  by]  A.  J.  George.  1904.  Houghton. 
(Cambridge  edition  of  the  poets.) 

Wright,  Henrietta  Christian.  j  970  W93 

Children's  stories  in  American  history.     1895.     Scribner. 

Contents:  Ancient  America. — The  mound-builders.— The  red  men. — The  North- 
men.— Columbus  and  the  discovery  of  America. — The  Cabots. — Americus  Vespucius. — 
Ponce  de  Leon. — Balboa,  the  discoverer  of  the  Pacific  ocean. — Cabeca  de  Vaca. — Cor- 
tez  and  the  conquest  of  Mexico. — Pizarro  and  the  conquest  of  Peru. — De  Soto,  the  dis- 
coverer of  the  Mississippi. — Verrazano. — Cartier. — The  Huguenots. — Sir  Walter  Ra- 
leigh.— Pocahontas,  the  Indian  princess. — The  settlement  of  Maine  and  discovery  of 
Lake  Champlain.— Henry  Hudson  and  the  Knickerbockers. — The  Pilgrims  and  the 
settlement  of  New  England. — La  Salle. — Story  of  Acadia. — Pontiac— The  Revolution. 

Wright,  Henrietta  Christian.  j  810.9  W93 

Children's  stories  in  American  literature.     2v.     1895-96.     Scribner. 

v.l.  The  early  literature. — J.  J.  Audubon. — Washington  Irving. — J.  F.  Cooper. — 
W.  C.  Bryant. — W.  H.  Prescott. — J.  G.  Whittier. — Nathaniel  Hawthorne. — George  Ban- 
croft.— E.  A.  Poe. — R.  W.  Emerson. — H.  W.  Longfellow. — J.  L.  Motley. — H.  B.  Stowe. 
— J.  R.  Lowell. — Francis  Parkman. — O.  W.  Holmes. 

v.2.  G.  W.  Curtis.— R.  H.  Stoddard.— Edward  Eggleston.— C.  D.  Warner.— E.  C. 
Stedman.— Bret  Harte. — Bayard  Taylor.— W.  D.  Howells.— F.  H.  Burnett.— The  South- 
ern story  writers:  R.  M.  Johnston,  Mrs  R.  M.  Stuart,  J.  C.  Harris,  F.  H.  Smith. — L.  M. 
Alcott. — T.  B.  Aldrich. — New  England  women  writers. — G.  W.  Cable. — John  Fiske. — 
Mark  Twain. 

Wright,  Henrietta  Christian.  j  820.9  W93 

Children's  stories  in  English  literature.     2v.     1892-95.     Scribner. 
v.i.      From  Taliesin  to  Shakespeare. 
v.2.      From  Shakespeare  to  Tennyson. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR   LIST  379 

Wright,  Henrietta  Christian.  j  973  W93 

Children's  stories  of  American  progress.     1895.    Scribner. 

Includes  chapters  on  the  Barbary  pirates,  the  purchase  of  Louisiana,  the  expedi- 
tion of  Lewis  and  Clark,  the  first  steamboat,  the  battle  of  Tippecanoe,  the  War  of  1812, 
the  purchase  of  Florida,  slavery,  the  first  railroads,  the  telegraph,  the  annexation  of 
Texas,  the  Mexican  war,  the  settlement  of  the  Northwest  boundary,  the  discovery  of 
gold,  and  the  Civil  war. 

Wright,  Henrietta  Christian.  j  925  W93 

Children's  stories  of  the  great  scientists.     1895.     Scribner. 
Contents:    Galileo. — Kepler. — Newton. — Franklin. — Linnaeus. — Herschel. — Rumford. 
— Cuvier. — Humboldt. — Davy. — Faraday. — Lyell. — Agassiz. — Tyndall. — Kirchoff. — Dar- 
win and  Huxley. 

Describes  the  life  and  work  of  17  of  the  most  energetic  and  successful  workers  in 
natural  science. 

Wright,  Lewis.  j  636.5  W93 

The  practical  poultry  keeper.     1909.     Cassell. 

About  the  different  breeds  and  varieties  and  their  origin;  also  tells  briefly  about 
the  care  and  feeding  of  poultry. 

Wright,  Mrs  Mabel  (Osgood).  j  570.4  W935 

Stories  of  birds  and  beasts;  third  reader,  with  illustrations  by  L.  A. 
Fuertes  and  Ernest  Thompson  Seton.  1904.  Macmillan.  (Heart  of 
nature  series.) 

Contents:  Overture  by  the  birds. — The  building  of  a  bird. — The  birds'  nest. — Can- 
nibals in  court. — Chorus  by  the  birds. — Monarchs  in  exile. — Wolf ! — Under  the  polar 
star. — A  sealskin  jacket  at  home. — The  beaver's  story. 

Wright,  Mrs  Mabel  (Osgood).  j  570.4  W935P 

Stories   of  plants   and   animals;   second   reader.      1904.      .Macmillan. 

(Heart  of  nature  series.) 

Contents:    The  magic  spectacles. — How  the  grass  grew. — The  legend  of  Opechee. — 

Aspetuck. — The  flower  market. — The  snow  owl's  Christmas  party. 

Wynne,  Gladys.  j  720.9  W99 

Architecture  shown  to  the  children.  [1913.]  Jack.  ("Shown  to 
the  children"  series.) 

Contents:  Greek  architecture. — Roman  architecture. — Byzantine  architecture. — 
Romanesque  architecture. — Norman  architecture. — Gothic  architecture.  —  Renaissance 
architecture. 

Well  illustrated. 

Wyss,  Johann  David.  j  W998S 

Swiss  family  Robinson;  tr.  by  Mrs  H.  B.  Paull;  illustrated  by  E.  P. 
Abbott.    Jacobs. 

Story  of  a  family  shipwrecked  on  a  desolate  island. 

"They  did  sail  in  the  tubs,  and  train  zebras  and  ostriches  for  riding,  and  grow 
apples  and  pines  in  the  same  garden;  and  why  shouldn't  tiny5''     Spectator. 

The  same,  with  illustrations  by  Louis  Rhead  and  an  introduction  by 
W.  D.  Howells.     Harper j   W998S3 

The  same;  illustrations  by  T.  H.  Robinson.     Hodder j  W998S4 

Yale,  Mrs  Elsie  Duncan.  j  790  Y13 

When  mother  lets  us  give  a  party;  a  book  thai  tells  little  folk  li<>w 
best  to  entertain  and  amuse  their  little   friends.      IOOt).     Moffat. 

Partial  contents:  Invitations.- -'letting  ready.  Parties  you  can  have  without 
mother's  help. — For  sandwiches. — Candy  pull. —  Paper  doll  part]  pin  parly. — 

Christmas   sewing   bee.-    tndoor   picnic.     An    afternoon    in    Holland.— Japanese 
Buttercup  party.- — Soap  bubble  party. —St.   Patrick's  part)       Maj   day.      rhanksgiving. 
— Additional  games. 


38o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Yard,  Robert  Sterling.  j  7"  Y15 

Top  of  the  continent;  the  story  of  a  cheerful  journey  through  our 

national  parks.     1917.    Scribner. 
Good  illustrations  from  photographs. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  920  Y29 

Book  of  golden  deeds.     Nelson. 

Stories  of  heroism  from  the  days  of  ancient  Greece  and  Rome  to  1864.  Many  pic- 
tures, some  of  them  in  color. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2gca 

The  caged  lion.     Macmillan. 

A  story  of  Henry  of  Monmouth,  king  of  England,  and  of  his  friend  and  prisoner, 
the  captive  king  of  Scotland. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y29C 

Chaplet  of  pearls.    Macmillan. 

Tells  of  the  child  marriage  of  Beranger  and  Eustacie  de  Ribaumont,  of  the 
treachery  which  separated  them  at  the  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew,  of  Eustacie's 
wanderings  and  of  Beranger's  adventures  while  seeking  his  bride. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2gda 

Daisy  chain.     Macmillan. 

Story  of  English  home  life  telling  about  Harry's  adventures  at  sea,  Norman's  suc- 
cess, Ethel's  sacrifice  and  other  events  in  the  history  of  the  May  family.  Continued  by 
"The  trial." 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2gd 

Dove  in  the  eagle's  nest.     Macmillan. 

The  heroine,  brought  up  in  the  cultivated  atmosphere  of  a  free  German  city  of  the 
15th  century,  is  transferred  to  Schloss  Adlerstein,  the  wild  mountain  home  of  a  family 
of  robber  barons.     The  story  tells  what  happened  thereafter. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2ghe 

Heir  of  Redclyffe.    Macmillan. 

Story  of  home  life  in  England,  full  of  the  ideals  and  enthusiasms  of  the  mid- 
nineteenth  century.  The  hero  is  the  brave,  generous,  self-sacrificing  Guy,  "heir  of 
Redclyffe,"  and  among  the  other  characters  are  his  cousin,  the  supposedly  faultless 
Philip,  and  the  Edmonstone  sisters,   Laura,  Amy  and  inquisitive  little  Charlotte. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2gli 

The  little  duke,  Richard  the  Fearless.     Bell. 

Richard  the  Fearless  became  duke  of  Normandy  when  he  was  eight  years  old. 
This  story  tells  of  the  perils  of  his  childhood  and  of  his  captivity  at  the  court  of 
France. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2gpi 

Pilgrimage  of  the  Ben  Beriah.    Macmillan. 
A  story  of  the  time  of  Moses. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2gp 

The  prince  and  the  page.     Macmillan. 

A  tale  of  the  last  crusade,  telling  how  a  faithful  page,  one  of  the  proscribed  family 
of  Montfort,  gave  his  life  for  Prince  Edward.  Pretty  Bessie,  the  daughter  of  Blind 
Hal,  the  beggar  of  Bethnal  Green,  plays  an  important  part  in  the  story. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2gs 

Stray  pearls;  memoirs  of  Margaret  de   Ribaumont,  viscountess  of 

Bellaise.     Macmillan. 

An   historical   romance,    its   scene   laid    in    France   at   the   time   of   the   war   of   the 

Fronde  (1648-53).     Sequel  to  "A  chaplet  of  pearls." 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  38] 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Alary.  j  Y2gt 

The  trial.     Macmillan. 
More  links  in  the  "Daisy  chain,"  heing  a  continuation  of  the  May  family  chronicle. 

Yonge,  Charlotte  Mary.  j  Y2911 

Unknown  to  history.     Macmillan. 

The  heroine  is  a  little  daughter  of  Queen  Mary  of  Scotland  who  lived  under  a 
feigned  name  with  her  mother  during  her  captivity  in   England. 

Young,  Egerton  Ryerson.  j  636.7  Y37 

My  dogs  in  the  Northland.     1902.     Revell. 
Describes  the  hardships  and  risks  of  traveling  with  dog  trains  in  northern  wilds. 

Young,  Mrs  Ella  (Flagg),  &  Field,  W.  T.  cd.  j  372.4  Y37 

Young  and  Field  literary  readers;  book  three.     1914.     Ginn. 
Myths,  fairy  tales,  Bible  stories  and  poems  arranged  in  groups.     Illustrated. 

Young,  Ernest.  j  799  Y37 

Adventures  among  hunters  &  trappers;  romantic  incidents  &  perils 
amongst  animals  big  &  small  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  1912.  Lippin- 
cott. 

Young,  Ernest.  j  915.9  Y37 

Siam,  with  illustrations  in  colour  by  E.  A.  Norbury.  1908.  Black. 
(Peeps  at  many  lands  series.) 

Among  the  quaint  and  picturesque  customs  described  are  the  ceremony  of  the 
shaving  of  the  top-knot,  and  the  annual  rice  ploughing  festival.  Tells  also  about  the 
houses,  food,  dress  and  amusements  of  the  people  of  Siam. 

Young,  Martha.  j  Y38b 

Behind  the  dark  pines.     Appleton. 

"Mammy  tales  of  Brer  Rabbit,  Brer  Possum.  Mister  Mocking  Bird,  Miss  Red  Bird 
and  their  kin  who  live  in  that  delightful  land  of  mystery  'behitne  de  dark  pines.'" 
Quoted  in  Booklist,  1913. 

Young  folks'  library;  ed.  by  T.  B.  Aldrich.     [New  series.] 

v.i.     Norton,  C.  E.  ed.    The  story  teller j  398  N46S2 

v.2.     Harris,  J.  C.  ed.     The  merry  maker j  H293me 

v.3.     Field,  R.  M.  ed.     Famous  fairy  tales j  398  F458 

v. 4.     Jenks,  Tudor,  ed.     Tales  of  fantasy j  J25gt 

v.5.     Shahan,  T.  J.  ed.     Myths  and  legends j  292  S521T1 

v.6.     Seton,  E.  T.  ed.     Animal  story  book j  S495a2 

v.7.     Munroe,  Kirk,  &  Catherwood,  Mrs  Mary  (Hart well),  ed.  School 

and  college  days j    Mg68sto 

v.8.     Dole,  X.  H.  ed.     Book  of  adventure j  D6g4b2 

v.9.     Sparks,  E.  E.  ed.     Famous  explorers j  910  S73f 

v.io.     Trowbridge,  J.  T.  ed.     Brave  deeds j  904  T77b 

v.i  1.     Holden,  E.  S.  ed.    Wonders  of  earth,  sea  and  sky. .  j  504  H71W 

v.u.     I  Eenty,  <  '•.  A.  ed.     Famous  travels j  910  H45f 

v.13.     Brady,  C.  T.  ed.     Book  of  si- a  -tories j  B686b2 

v.14.     Jordan.   1).  S.  ed.     Book  of  natural  historj     j  590.4  J42 

v.15.     Van  Dyke,  Henry,  ed.    Historic  scenes  in  fiction.. .j  904  V18 


382  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Young  folks'  library — continued. 

v.16.  Long,  J.  D.  ed.    Famous  battles  by  land  and  sea.  .  .  .j  904  L82 

v.17.  Mabie,  H.  W.  ed.    Men  who  have  risen j  920  Mn 

v.18.  Hoar,  G.  F.  ed.     Book  of  patriotism j  172  H64 

v.19.  Harper,  W.  R.  ed.     Leaders  of  men j  923  H28 

v.20.  Aldrich,  T.  B.  ed.     Famous  poems. j  821.08  A36 

v.21.  Welsh,  Charles,  comp.    Key  to  the  treasure  house.. j  808.8  W51 

Ziemssen,  Ludwig.  j  92  B125Z 

Johann  Sebastian  Bach;  tr.  from  the  German  by  G.  P.  Upton.  1905. 
McClurg.     (Life  stories  for  young  people.) 

Life  story  of  one  of  the  greatest  of  musicians.  The  chapter  headings  are,  A  friend 
in  need. — In  the  world. — The  first  step  to  fame. — The  new  life.— A  musical  tourna- 
ment.— Life  and  work  in  Leipsic. — "He  shall  stand  before  kings."— The  last  of  earth. 

Zitkala-Sa.  j  398.097  Z68 

Old  Indian  legends;  retold  by  Zitkala-Sa.     1902.     Ginn. 

Contents:  Iktomi  and  the  ducks. — Iktomi's  blanket.— Iktomi  and  the  muskrat. — ■ 
Iktomi  and  the  coyote. — Iktomi  and  the  fawn.— The  badger  and  the  bear. — The  tree- 
bound. — Shooting  of  the  red  eagle. — Iktomi  and  the  turtle.- — Dance  in  a  buffalo  skull. 
— The  toad  and  the  boy. — Iya,  the  camp-eater. — Manstin,  the  rabbit. — The  warlike 
seven. 

Zollinger,  Gulielma.  j  Z77b 

A  boy's  ride.    McClurg. 

In  the  evil  days  of  King  John,  a  boy  of  14,  risking  his  life  to  save  that  of  another 
and  aided  by  a  faithful  Saxon  serving  man,  leads  the  king's  men  a  merry  chase  through 
woodland  and  fen  and  on  the  broad  highway  to  London  town. 

Zollinger,  Gulielma.  j  Z77m 

Maggie  McLanehan.     McClurg. 

How  a  little  Irish  girl  took  care  of  herself  and  her  small  cousin. 

Zollinger,  Gulielma.  j  Z77r 

Rout  of  the  foreigner.    McClurg. 

English  story  of  the  13th  century  concerning  a  plot  against  a  Bedfordshire  knight 
and  especially  the  part  taken  by  two  16-year-old  boys  in  bringing  the  evil  Falkes  de 
Breaute  to  justice. 

Zollinger,  Gulielma.  j  Z77W 

Widow  O'Callaghan's  boys.     McClurg. 

Story  of  the  brave  struggle  of  an  Irish  widow  and  her  seven  sons  for  a  livelihood. 

Zwilgmeyer,  Dikken.  j  Z94J 

Johnny  Blossom;  from  the  Norwegian,  tr.  by  Emilie  Poulsson. 
Pilgrim  Press. 

Stories  of  a  little  Norwegian  boy  who  is  always  getting  into  scrapes.  Tells  among 
other  things  about  his  crab-fishing,  how  he  went  sailing  with  an  umbrella,  how  he  be- 
came a  credit  to  his  school  and  about  his  birthday  party. 

Zwilgmeyer,  Dikken.  j  Z94W 

What  happened  to  Inger  Johanne,  as  told  by  herself;  tr.  from  the 

Norwegian  by  Emilie  Poulsson,  illustrated  by  F.  L.  Young.     Lothrop. 

Amusing  account  of  the  mischievous  pranks  of  "the  Judge's  Inger  Johanne,"  aged 
13,  to  whom  queer  things  are  always  happening.  "Christmas  mumming,"  "Lost  in 
the  forest,"  "Traveling  with  a  Billy-goat"  and  "When  the  circus  came,"  are  good 
chapters  to  read  aloud. 

Zwilgmeyer,  Hendrikke.     See  Zwilgmeyer,  Dikken. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  383 

Reference  Books 

The  following  list  does  not  represent  the  complete  reference  col- 
lection. It  includes  only  those  books  of  which  the  Childrcns  Depart- 
ment of  the  Library  has  no  circulating  copies  and  which  have  not, 
therefore,  been  previously  listed. 

qrj  920  A64a 
Appletons'  cyclopaedia  of  American  biography;  with  supplement.  6v. 
1900.     Appleton. 

rj  031  A64 
Appleton's  new  practical  cyclopedia;  a  new  work  of  reference  based 
upon  the  best  authorities  and  systematically  arranged  for  use  in  home 
and  school;  ed.  by  Marcus  Benjamin  and  others.    6v.     1910.    Appleton. 

Bartlett,  John,  comp.  rj  808.8  B27 

Familiar  quotations.     1904.     Little. 

qrj  909  B63 
Book  of  history;  a  history  of  all  nations  from  the  earliest  times  to  the 
present  [1914],  with  an  introduction  by  Viscount  Bryce.  15V.  1915- 
Grolier  Soc. 

Emphasizes  the  influence  of  physical  environment  in  the  development  of  man,  and 
the  interrelationships  of  different  tribes,  races  and  nations.  Arranged  under  the  gen- 
eral divisions,  Man  and  the  universe. — The  far  East. — The  middle  East. — The  near 
East. — Africa. — Europe. — America. 

Brookings,  Walter  Du  Bois,  &  Ringwalt,  R.  C.  ed.  rj  028  B77 

Briefs  for  debate  on  current  political,  economic  and  social  topics. 
1906.     Longmans. 

"Bibliography  of  debating"  by  A.  B.   Hart,  p. 41-47. 

Gives  references  and  states  the  principal  arguments  on  a  large  number  of  the  im- 
portant topics  of  the  day,  such  as  the  exclusion  of  the  Chinese,  the  jury  system,  inter- 
collegiate football,  the  eight-hour  day,  the  housing  of  the  poor,  etc. 

Bryant,  William  Cullen,  comp.  qrj  821.08  B84f 

New  library  of  poetry  and  song;  with  his  review  of  poets  and  poetry 
from  the  time  of  Chaucer.     1900.     Baker. 

Century  cyclopedia  of  names.     1914.     Century.  qrj  031  C32C2 

Chambers,  Robert,  ed.  qrj  394  C35 

Book  of  days;  a  miscellany  of  popular  antiquities  in  connection  with 
the  calendar,  including  anecdote,  biography  &  history,  curiosities  of 
literature  and  oddities  of  human  life  and  character.     2v.     Lippincott. 

Chambers,  Robert,  ed.  qrj  820.9  C35 

Cyclopaedia  of  English  literature;  ed.  by  David   Patrick.     3V.     [910. 

Lippincott. 

History  of  English  literature  from  its  beginnings  to  the  present   time,  including 

colonial  and  American  writers.     Gives  biographical 
mens  of  their  work.     Many  portraits  and  facsimiles, 

Champlin,  John  Denison,  comp.  rj  031  C35a2 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  common  things.     I0l6.     H 
Information  about  all  sorts  of   things,   such   as  college   colors,   ■ 
standard  time,  kitchen-middens,  armored  ships,  asbestos,  knot- 


384  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Champlin,  John  Denison,  &  Bostwick,  A.  E.  comp.  rj  790  C35 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  games  and  sports.     1890.     Holt. 

Champlin,  John  Denison,  comp.  rj  803  C35 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  literature  and  art.     1901.     Holt. 
Tells  about  great  poems,   plays,   stories  and  operas  and   describes   briefly    famous 

pictures,  statues,  cathedrals,  castles,  etc.     Includes  characters  in  fiction,  pen-names  of 

authors,  nicknames  of  persons  and  places.     Illustrated. 

Champlin,  John  Denison,  comp.  rj  570.3  C35 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  natural  history,  with  an  introduction  by 
F.  A.  Lucas.     1905.     Holt. 

Describes  all  the  different  animals  in  alphabetical  order.     Many  pictures. 

Champlin,  John  Denison,  comp.  rj  903  C35y2 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  persons  and  places.     191 1.     Holt. 

Short  accounts  of  prominent  people  and  places  and  of  events  that  have  marked  the 
world's  progress.     Useful  for  school  work. 

Chisholm,  George  Goudie.  rj  910  C44 

Handbook  of  commercial  geography.     1918.     Longmans. 
Considers  climate,  soil,  labor,   communication,   commodities   and  their  production. 

Discusses   also   the  natural   resources,   condition   and   prospects   of   the   countries   of  the 

world.     Many  valuable  maps. 

Clement,  Mrs  Clara  (Erskine),  afterward  Mrs  Waters,  &  rj  927  C56 

Hutton,  Laurence. 

Artists  of  the  19th  century  and  their  works.  2v.  in  1.  1907.  Hough- 
ton. 

Useful  reference  book  containing  2050  very  brief  biographies  of  artists,  with  men- 
tion of  their  works. 

Clement,  Mrs  Clara  (Erskine),  afterward  Mrs  Waters.  rj  927  C56P 

Painters,  sculptors,  architects,  engravers,  and  their  works.  1901. 
Houghton. 

Useful  for  school  reference  work.  The  brief  biographies  of  the  artists  are  ar- 
ranged in  alphabetical  order  and  the  introduction  gives  an  account  of  the  different 
schools  of  painting  with  chronological  tables  of  the  principal  painters  of  each  school. 

Comstock,  Mrs  Anna  (Botsford).  rj  570.7  C73 

Handbook  of  nature-study  for  teachers  and  parents;  based  on  the 
Cornell  nature-study  leaflets,  with  much  additional  material.  Ed.9. 
1919.     Comstock  Pub.  Co. 

"Books  of  reference,"  p. 924-928. 

Interesting  and  wholly  practical  in  method  of  teaching.  Descriptive  rather  than 
scientific  studies  of  animals,  flowers  and  trees,  with  sections  on  earth,  weather  and  sky 
study. 

Cram  (George  F.)  Company.  qrj  91748  C86 

Descriptive  review  showing  development  of  the  state  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, with  detail  maps  and  profuse  half-tone  illustrations  from  all 
parts  of  the  Keystone  state.     1916. 

Binder's  title  reads  "Historical,  industrial,  commercial  and  agricultural  review  of 
Pennsylvania." 

Includes  maps  of  the  different  continents  and  countries  and  of  every  state  in  the 
United  States. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR   LIST  385 

Deems,  Edward  M.  comp.  qrj  808.8  D37 

Holy-days  and  holidays;  a  treasury  of  historical  material,  sermons 
in  full  and  in  brief,  suggestive  thoughts  and  poetry  relating  to  holy 
days  and  holidays.     1902.     Funk. 

Bibliography,  p.727~735- 

Dillon,  Philip  Robert.  rj  973  D58 

American  anniversaries;  every  day  in  the  year,  presenting  750  events 
in  United  States  history  from  the  discovery  of  America  to  the  present 
day.     1918.     Privately  printed. 

Falls,  De  Witt  Clinton.  rj  355.973  F19 

Army  and  navy  information;  uniforms,  organization,  arms  and 
equipment  of  the  warring  powers.     1917.     Dutton. 

Illustrated. 

Fisher,  Sydney  George.  rj  974.8  F53 

Making  of  Pennsylvania.     1906.     Lippincott. 

Contents:  The  Dutch,  the  Swedes  and  the  duke  of  York. — The  origin  of  the  Quak- 
ers.— Quaker  traits. — The  Germans. — The  Moravians. — The  Scotch-Irish  and  the  Pres- 
byterians.— The  Church  of  England  men. — The  Welsh. — The  early  development  of 
science  and  the  mechanic  arts. — The  Connecticut  invasion. — The  boundary  dispute  with 
Maryland  and  Virginia. — Results. 

Granger,  Edith,  ed.  qrj  808.8  G78a 

Index  to  poetry  and  recitations;  a  practical  reference  manual  for 
the  librarian,  teacher,  bookseller,  elocutionist,  etc.,  including  over 
50,000  titles  from  450  books.     1918.    McClurg. 

In  this  book  are  indexed  the  contents  of  450  volumes,  comprising  standard  and 
popular  collections  of  poetry,  recitations,  orations,  dialogues,  etc.  Contains  a  title,  an 
author  and  a  first-line  index.  Appendix  gives  lists  of  selections  suitable  for  special 
days. 

Grimm,  Jakob  Ludwig,  &  Grimm,  W.  K.  qrj  398  G91 

Fairy  tales  of  the  brothers  Grimm;  illustrated  by  Arthur  Rackham; 
tr.  by  Mrs  Edgar  Lucas.     1909.     Doubleday. 

Sixty   fairy   tales   with   many   beautiful   colored   pictures,   and   others   in    black    and 
white.      Among   the    stories    are,    The    golden    bird. — Briar    Rose. — The    twel 
princesses. — The  frog  prince. — Rapunzel. — The  valiant  tailor. — Clever  Elsa. — The  elves 
and  the  shoemaker. — King  Thrushbeard. — The  golden  goose. 

Hoyt,  Jehiel  Keeler,  &  Ward,  A.  L.  comp.  qrj  808.8  H86c 

Cyclopaedia  of  practical  quotations,  English  and  Latin.     [896.     Funk. 

Killikelly,  Sarah  Howe.  qrj  974-886  K25 

History  of  Pittsburgh;  its  rise  and  progress.  [906.  Montgomery. 
Pittsburgh. 

Contents:  Frontier  times. — Before  the  city  charter. — The  municipality,  The 
schools. — The  churches. — Hospitals  and  benevolent  institutions  Records  "t  foui  wars, 
— The  newspapers.— The  judiciary. — Some  pioneer  men  and  other  matters. 

"Sources,"  p.  17-19. 

The  illustrations  have  value  and  interest,  several  of  them  being  views  oi  Pitts- 
burgh in  the  early  stages  of  its  development, 

Matson,  Henry.  rj  028  M47 

References  for  literary  workers.     1893.     McClurg. 

Gives  reference  lists  for  a  great  variety   of  subjeets;   historical,   bit  liter- 

ary, etc.     I'seful  in  the  preparation  of  debates,  essays    nil  orations. 


386  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

National  Conference  of  Music  Supervisors.  rj  784.8  N15 

"I   hear  America   singing;"  55   community  songs    [complete   score 
for  voice  and  piano].     1917.    Birchard. 

qrj  031  N26a 
New  international  encyclopaedia;  ed.  by  D.  C.  Gilman,  H.  T.  Peck  [and] 
F.M.Colby.    20v.     191 1.     Dodd. 

Courses  of  reading  and  study  in  the   New  international  en- 
cyclopaedia.    1911.     Dodd qrj  031   N26C 

qrj  031  N26n 
New  international  year  book;  a  compendium  of  the  world's  progress 
for  the  year  1910-18;  ed.  by  F.  M.  Colby  and  A.  L.  Churchill.  1911-19. 
Dodd. 

qrj  423  S78 
New  standard  dictionary  of  the  English  language.     1913.     Funk. 

Reinach,  Salomon.  rj  709  R31 

Apollo;  an  illustrated  manual  of  the  history  of  art  throughout  the 
ages;  from  the  French  by  Florence  Simmonds.     1907-     Scribner. 

Bibliography  at  the  end  of  each  chapter. 

Originally  translated  and  published  with  title  "Story  of  art  throughout  the   ages." 

"Generally  recognized  as  unique  of  its  kind.     It  tells  in  one  concise  narrative  the 

story  of  the  growth  of  the  arts  from  the  stone  age  to   our  own  days;   it  illustrates  the 

growth  with  a  long  series  of  little  illustrations,  and  enables  the  student   to   extend   his 

researches  by  means  of  a  concise  bibliography."     Burlington  magazine,  1907. 

Rogers,  Julia  Ellen.  qrj  582  R61 

The  tree  book;  a  popular  guide  to  a  knowledge  of  the  trees  of  North 
America  and  to  their  uses  and  cultivation.     1913.     Doubleday. 

Describes  the  various  groups  of  forest  trees,  their  habits,  distribution  and  cultiva- 
tion, and  gives  methods  for  their  identification.  Much  information  on  forestry  is  in- 
cluded.    Written  in  a  pleasant,  popular  style  and  well  illustrated  with  photographs. 

Stedman,  Edmund  Clarence,  ed.  rj  811.08  S81 

American  anthology,  1787-1899.     1900.     Houghton. 

Collection  of  American  poetry  arranged  under  the  headings,  Early  years  of  the 
nation. — First  lyrical  period. — Second  lyrical  period. — Close  of  the  century.  Brief 
biographies  of  the  poets  represented.     Indexes  of  first  lines,  titles  and  poets. 

rj  359-6  S91 
Stripes  and  types  of  the  royal  navy;  a  little  handbook  of  sketches  by 
naval  officers  showing  the  dress  and  duties  of  all  ranks  from  admiral 
to  boy  signaller,  by  F.  W.  R.  M.  and  J.  S.  H.     [1915.]     Gale. 

Thwaites,  Reuben  Gold.  rj  977  T43 

How  George  Rogers  Clark  won  the  Northwest,  and  other  essays  in 

western  history.     1903.     McClurg. 

Other  essays:     The  division  of  the  Northwest  into  states. — The  Black  Hawk  war. — 

The  story  of  Mackinac. — The  story  of  La  Pointe. — A  day  on  Braddock's  road. — Early 

lead-mining  on  the  upper  Mississippi. — The  Draper  manuscripts. 

Walsh,  William  Shepard,  comp.  rj  394  W18 

Curiosities  of  popular  customs.     1900.     Lippincott. 

About  curious  rites  and  ceremonies,  festivals  and  holiday  customs  of  many  lands. 
A  few  of  the  headings  are,  Candlemas  day,  Waits,  Yule  log,  Swastika,  Shrove  Tues- 
day, Hallowe'en,  Oak-apple  day,  Guy  Fawkes's  day,  Noche  triste,  Confetti.  The  ar- 
rangement is  alphabetical. 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— AUTHOR  LIST  387 

Webster,  Noah,  comp.  rj  423  W38C2 

Collegiate  dictionary;  a  dictionary  of  the  English  language.      1919. 

Merriam. 

Abridged  from  Webster's  "International  dictionary." 

Webster,  Noah,  comp.  qrj  423  W38i2 

New  international  dictionary  of  the  English  language.     1916.     Mer- 
riam. 

Who's  who  in  America,  1918/19.    v.io.     1918.  rj  920  W66 

rj  317.3  W89 

World  almanac  and  encyclopedia,  1912-date.     [v.i9-date.]      1911-date. 

Press  Pub.  Co. 

rj  031  W8ga 

World  book;  organized  knowledge  in  story  and  picture  [ed.]  by  M.  V. 

O'Shea  [and  others],     iov.     1919.     Hanson. 


Title  List 

Does  not  contain  individual  biography  when  the  title  is  the  name  of  the  person 
written  about;  nor  such  titles  as  "Asia,"  "History  of  England,"  etc.  For  these,  refer- 
ence should  be  made  to  the  subject  index  under  the  name  of  the  person  or  place.  Such 
titles  as  "Poetical  works"  are  also  omitted. 

A.  B.  C.  of  electrical  experiments.     Clarke j  537.81   C53 

A  B  C  of  electricity.     Meadowcroft j  537  M55a2 

A-hunting  of  the  deer.     Warner j  814  \V23a 

Aaron,  Story  of.     Harris j   H293S 

Aaron  in  the  wildwoods.     Harris j  H2Q3a 

Ab,  the  cave  man.     Nida j  N32ga 

Abandoned  claim.     Loughead j   LQ26a 

Abbie   Ann.     Martin j    M427a 

Abbot.     Scott j   S43ia 

About   animals.      Carter j    590.4   C23 

About    Harriet.      Hunt j    H937a 

About  old  story-tellers.     Mitchell j  928  M  74 

According  to  season.     Dana j   580.4  Di9a 

Across  Asia  on  a  bicycle.     Allen  &  Sachtleben j  915  A43 

Action  primer.     Baker j  372.4  B17 

Admiral's  caravan.     Carryl j  C2333a 

Adopting  of  Rosa  Marie.     Rankin j  Ri94a 

Adrift  on  an  ice-pan.     Grenfell j  92  G875g 

Advanced  first  reader.     Cyr j   372. 4   C98 

Adventure  in  Thule.     Black j   B5i4f 

Adventures  among  hunters  &  trappers.     Young j   799  Y37 

Adventures  &   achievements.     Tappan j   920  Ti9a 

Adventures   of  a  brownie.      Craik j    C863a 

Adventures  of   Arnold   Adair.      Driggs j    D827a 

Adventures  of  Billy  Topsail.     Duncan j   D8992a 

Adventures  of   Grillo.      Candeze j    595.7   C17 

Adventures  of  Huckleberry   Finn.     Twain j   T897a 

Adventures  of  Joel   Pepper.     Sidney j   8569a 

Adventures  of  Odysseus.     Marvin j   883   H7501T1 

Adventures  of  Odysseus  and  the  tale  of  Troy.     Colum....j  883  H75C 

Adventures  of    Oliver   Twist.      Dickens j    D55ia 

Adventures  of  Tom   Sawyer.     Twain j   T897I 

Adventures  of  Torqua.     Holder j    H71.V1 

Adventures  of  two  ants.     Hammarstrom j   595-796    I  [22 

Adventures  of  two  youths   in   a   journey   through    Africa. 

Knox j    916    K35 

Adventures   of  two  youths   in   a  journey   tn   Ceylon   and    India. 

Knox j    o  1 5-4    K35 

389 


390  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  to  Egypt  and  the  Holy 

Land.     Knox j  916.2  K35 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  to  Japan  and  China. 

Knox j    915.2    K35 

Adventures  of  two  youths  in  a  journey  to   Siam  and  Java. 

Knox j    915.9    K35 

Adventures  of  Ulysses.     Lamb j   883  H750I4 

^Eneid  for  boys  and  girls.     Church j  873  V34.C 

Aerial  navigation.     Walker j  533.6  Wi6a 

Aerial  navigation  of  to-day.     Turner j  533.6  T86 

Affonzo,  our  little  Brazilian  cousin.     Nixon j  918.1  N37 

Afloat  and  ashore.     Cooper j   C787a 

Against   heavy  odds.     Boyesen j    B669a 

Age  of  chivalry.     Bulfinch j  398.25  B87 

The  same;  ed.  by  Scott j  398.25  B87a 

Age  of  fable.     Bulfinch j  292  B87 

The  same;  ed.  by  Scott j  292  B87a 

Agnes.     Abbott j    Ai32a 

Aldine  readers;  book  one.     Spaulding  &  Bryce j  372.4  S72 

Aldine  readers;  book  two.     Spaulding  &  Bryce j  372.4  S73a2 

Aldine  readers;  book  three.    Spaulding  &  Bryce j  372.4  S73b2 

Alhambra.      Irving j    914.6    I28 

Alice  in  Wonderland;  dramatized.     Harrison j  793.1   C23 

Alice's  adventures  in  Wonderland.     Carroll j  0233a 

The  same j    C233a2 

Alice's  visit  to  the  Hawaiian  islands.     Krout j  919.69  K42 

All  about  dogs.     Lane j  636.7  L23 

All  around  Asia.     Redway j  915  R27 

All  sorts  of  stories  book.     Lang j  L239a 

All  the  year  round.    4v.     Strong j  570.4  S92 

L' Allegro.     Milton j  821   M71 

Alphabets  old  &  new.     Day j  744-2  D33a 

Alte  bekannte.     Lohmeyer  &  Oldenberg qj  831  L78 

Amateur  fireman.     Otis j  0314am 

American  anniversaries.     Dillon rj  973  D58 

American  anthology.     Stedman rj  811.08  S81 

American  authors  and  their  birthdays.     Roe j  810  R59 

American  beginnings  in  Europe.     Gordy j  940  G66 

American  book  of  golden  deeds.     Baldwin j  920  B19 

American  boy  at  Henley.     Channon j  C365a 

American  boys'  book  of  signs,  signals  and  symbols.    Beard.  .  j  654.9  B34 

American  boys'  engineering  book.     Bond j  620  B62am 

American  boys'  handy  book.     Beard j  790  B34W 

American  citizen.     Dole j    172  D69 

American  food  and  game  fishes.     Jordan  &  Evermann qj  597  J42 

American  girls'  handy-book.     Beard j  790  B343 

American  girl's  home  book  of  work  and  play.     Campbell j  790  C15 

American  hero  stories.     Tappan j  920  T19 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  391 

American  history  for  little  folks.     Blaisdcll  &  Ball j  973  B52am 

American  Indian,  Story  of  the.     Brooks j  970.1   B77 

American  Indian  fairy  tales.     Compton j  398.097  C73 

American  Indians.     2v.     Hodge j  970.1  H66 

American   Indians.     Starr j  970.1   S79 

American  inventions  and  inventors.     Mowry j  609  M94 

American  men  of  action.     Stevenson j  920  S84 

American  natural  history.     Hornaday qj   591.97  H79 

American  patriotic  prose  and  verse.     Stevens j  811.08  S845 

American  sailor.     Brooks j  656.8  B77a 

American  soldier.     Brooks j  973  B77a 

American  war  ballads  and  lyrics.    2v.  in  1.     Eggleston.  .  .  .j  811.08  E35a 

American  wars,  Book  of.     Nicolay j  973  N32 

America's  story.     5v.     Pratt j  973  P88a 

Among  school  gardens.     Greene j  716.6  G83 

Among  the  camps.     Page j  Pi45a 

Among  the  hills.     Whittier j  811  \V66s3 

Among  the  law-makers.     Alton j  328.73  A46 

Among  the  moths  and  butterflies.     Ballard j  595.78  B21 

Anahei,  our  little  brown  cousin.     Wade j  919.1 1  W 1 1 

Ancient   mariner.      Coleridge j   821    C68 

Ancient  Spanish  ballads.     Lockhart j  861.08  L76 

Angels  in  art.     Clement j  755  C56 

Animal  secrets  told.     Brearley j  591.4  B71 

Animal  story  book.     Lang j   L238a 

Animal  story  book.     Seton j  S495a2 

Animals  at  work  and  play.     Cornish j  591.5  C82a 

Animals ;  their  relation  and  use  to  man.     Wood j  590.4  W85 

Annapolis   youngster.      Beach j    6342a 

Anne  Nelson.     Curtis j   C933a 

Anne  of  Geierstein.     Scott j   S431H1111 

Anne  of  Green  gables.     Montgomery j   MXtqa 

Anne's  terrible  good  nature.     Lucas j  L969a 

Another  book  of  verses  for  children.     Lucas j  821.08  L96a 

Another  Brownie   book.     Cox <lj    C853a 

Antiquary.     Scott j    S43ian 

Apache  gold.     Altsheler j  A466a 

Apauk,  caller  of  buffalo.     Schultz j  970.1   S38ap 

Apollo.      Reinach rj   7m)    R31 

Appletons'  cyclopaedia  of  American  biography.     6v < j r j  920  .\<>|a 

Appleton's  new  practical  cyclopedia.     6v rj  03]     \<>  1 

April  baby's  book  of  tunes.     Arnim j   A;  j<j.i 

Arabella  and  Araminta  stories.     Smith j  So;N;i 

Arabian  nights;  ed.  by  Rouse j  398  A.65an 

The  same;  ed.  by  Wiggin  and  Smith j  3<)X  .\'>5.i\v 

The  sunn-;  illus.  by  Bull <|j  398  Ad5.1l> 

Arabian  nights'  entertainments;  ed.  by   Lang j  398  A<>5ar 

The  same;  ed.  by  Olcott j  398    \<>5.i" 


392  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Arbor  day.     Schauffler j  808.8  S3ia 

Archer  and  the  "Prophet."    Brown j  67852a 

Architecture  shown  to  the  children.    Wynne j  720.9  W99 

Arkansaw  bear.     Paine j   Pi62a 

Army  and  navy  information.     Falls rj  355.973  F19 

Arnold  Adair,  American  ace.     Driggs j   D827a 

Arnold  primer.     Arnold j  372.4  A75 

Arnold's  little  brother.     Brown j   B7852ar 

Around  the  camp-fire.     Roberts j  R536a 

Around  the  world;  book  one.     Carroll j  910  C23a 

Around  the  world;  book  two.     Carroll j  910  C23b 

Around  the  world;  book  three.     Carroll  &  Jerome j  910  C23C 

Around  the  world;  book  four.     Carroll  &  Hart j  910  C23d 

Around  the  world;  book  five.     Carroll  &  Waldo j  910  C23e 

Around  the  world  in  eighty  days.     Verne j  V274a 

Around  the  world  with  the  children.     Carpenter j  910  C22a 

Art  crafts  for  beginners.     Sanford j   707.2  S22 

Artin,  our  little  Armenian  cousin.     Wade j  915.6  W11 

Artists  of  the  19th  century  and  their  works.    2v.  in  1.     Clement 

&   Hutton rj   927   C56 

As  you  like  it.     Shakespeare j  822.33  O31 

The  same;  ed.  by  Darton j  822.33  O3 

The  same;  illus.  by  Thomson qj  822.33  O32 

As  you  like  it,  Story  of.     Hoffman j  822.33  H 18 

Asgard  stories.    Foster  &  Cummings j  293  F81 

Ask-at-home  questions.     Bailey j  031   B16 

Astronomy  from  a  dipper.     Clarke j  523.8  C52 

At  Aboukir  and  Acre.     Henty j   H456at 

At  Agincourt.     Henty j  H456a 

At  the  back  of  the  north  wind.     MacDonald j  Mi46at 

The  same;  illus.  by  Smith j  Mi46at2 

At  the  siege  of  Quebec.     Otis j   0314a 

At  war  with  Pontiac.     Munroe j  M968a 

Augsburg's  drawing.     3v.     Augsburg j    741   A92 

Aunt  Jo's  scrap-bag.    6v.    See  full  entry  under  Alcott. 

Aunt  Louisa's  book  of  fairy  tales.     Valentine j  398  V15 

Aunt  Martha's  corner  cupboard.     Kirby j  630  K28 

Australasia's   story.      Marshall j   994   M41 

Avventure  di  Pinocchio.     Lorenzini j  853   L87 

Aztec-hunters.     Rolt-Wheeler j  R656a 

Aztec  treasure-house.     Janvier j  Ji88a 

Babette,  Story  of.     Stuart j  S932S 

Baby  days j   B119 

Baby  Elton.     Quirk j  Q44b 

Baby's  bouquet.     Crane j  784.8  C86b 

Baby's  opera.     Crane j  784.8  C86ba 

Baby's  own  ^Esop.     Crane j  398.91  A25C 

Baldwin  primer.     Scripture j  372.4  S43 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  393 

Baldy  of  Nome.     Darling j  D258b 

Ballad  book.     Bates j   821.08  B31 

Ballad  stories,  Book  of.     MacLeod j  398.21  M19 

Ballads  and  tales.     Haaren j  Hi  13b 

Ballads  for  little  folk.     Cary j  811  C24b 

Ballads  of  American  bravery.     Scollard j  811.08  S42 

Ballooning  as  a  sport.     Baden-Powell j  533.6  B14 

Barbara's  Philippine  journey.     Burks j  919.14  B91 

Barbary  rovers.     Finnemore j  961  F51 

Barberry  bush.     Coolidge j   C783b 

Barnaby  Lee.     Bennett j  6439b 

Barnaby  Rudge.     2v.     Dickens j   D55ib 

Baron  Munchausen.     Raspe j   R2i5t 

Base  ball  guide j  796.31  S73 

Basket  woman.     Austin j  398  A93 

Battle  fields  and  camp  fires.    Abbot j  973-7  Ai2b 

Battle-fields  and  victory.    Abbot j  973.7  Ai2ba 

Battle-fields  of  '61.    Abbot j  973.7  A12 

Battle    line    of    democracy.      United    States — Committee    on 

public   information j   808.8  U25 

Battle  of  base-ball.     Claudy j  796.31  C54 

Beach  patrol.     Drysdale j   0853b 

Bear  stories.     Carter j   C237b 

Beautiful  Joe.     Saunders j  S257b 

Beauty  and  the  beast  picture  book.     Crane qj  398  C867b 

Bee-man  of  Orn.     Stockton j  S866b 

Bee  people.     Morley j  595-79  M91 

Bee,  the  princess  of  the  dwarfs.     France j  F86ih2 

Beechnut.     Abbott j  Ai32b2 

Bees,  wasps  and  ants.     Duncan j  595-79  D89 

Beetles  and  flies.     Duncan j  595.76  D89 

Beginner's  garden  book.     French j  716.6  F92 

Behind  the  dark  pines.     Young j  Y38b 

Behind  the   line.     Barbour j    B235b 

Being  a  boy.     Warner j  817  W23 

Belgian  twins.     Perkins j   1'43-tb 

Ben  Comee.     Canavan j   C1O7I) 

Ben-Hur.     Wallace j    \V176b 

Benjamin   Bunny,  Tale  of.     Potter j   P856tal 

Beowulf.     Ragozin j  398.27   R15 

Beowulf;  tr.  by  Cox j  829   B44C 

Beric  the  Briton.     Henty j    II  \S6bt 

Bertha,  our  little  German  cousin.     Wade j  914 .3  Wi  1 

Best  Lincoln  stories  tersely  told.     Gallaher j  92  L7i5g 

Best  things  from  best  authors,     v.  1-9.     Shoemaker j  808.8  S55 

Betrothed.      Scott i    S  nil" 

Betty,  Story  of.     Wells j   W49438 

Betty  in  Canada.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymplc j  917.]    B52 


394  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Betty  Leicester.     Jewett j   J3i6b 

Betty  Leicester's  Christmas.     Jewett j  J3i6be 

Beyond  the  old  frontier.     Grinnell j  917.8  G92 

Beyond  the  pasture  bars.     Sharp j  590.4  S53b 

B 
B 

b 

B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 


ble  for  children j  220  B4732 

ble  for  young  people j  220  B4732 

ble  readings  for  schools j  220  B4733 

ble  stories:  New  testament j  225  B47b 

ble  stories:  Old  testament j  221  647b 

ble  stories  to  read  and  tell j  221  B47bi 

g  book  of  fables.     Jerrold : qj  398.91  J28 

g  book  of  nursery  rhymes.     Jerrold qj  398.8  J28 

g  brother.     Eggleston j  E357ib 

g  Cypress.     Munroe j   M968b 

g  people  and  little  people  of  other  lands.    Shaw j  390  S53 

lly  Topsail,  Adventures  of.     Duncan j  08992a 

Billy  Topsail  &  Company.     Duncan j   08992b 

Billy  Topsail,  M.  D.     Duncan j   D8992bi 

Bimbi.     Ramee j   Ri75bi2 

Biographical   stories.     Hawthorne j   920   H36b 

The  same j  9744  H36 

Biography  of  a  grizzly.     Seton j  S495b 

Birch  and  the  star.    Thorne-Thomsen j  T4iib 

Birch-tree  fairy  book.    Johnson j  398  J35b 

Bird  book.     Eckstorm j  598.2  E25b 

Bird  friends.     Trafton j  598.2  T68 

Bird  houses  and  how  to  build  them.     Dearborn j  598.2  D34 

Bird  houses  boys  can  build.     Siepert j  598.2  S57 

Bird  legend  and  life.     Walker j  598.2  Wi7b 

Bird-life.     Chapman j  598.2  C36b2 

Bird  life  stories.    Weed j  598.2  W42 

Bird  neighbors.     Doubleday qj  598.2  D75 

Bird  stories.     Mulets j  M954b 

Bird-ways.     Miller j    598.2   M69 

Birds  and  bees.    Burroughs j  591-5  B94b 

Birds'  Christmas  Carol.     Wiggin j  W688b 

Birds'  Christmas  Carol;  dramatic  version.    Wiggin j  793.1  W68 

Birds  of  the  United  States  and  Canada.    2v.  in  1.     Nuttall.J  598.2  N53 

Birds  of  village  and  field.     Merriam j  598.2  M63b 

Birds  that  every  child  should  know.    Doubleday j  598.2  D75b 

Birds  through  an  opera  glass.     Merriam j  598.2  M63 

Bishop's  shadow.     Thurston j  T435b 

Black  arrow.     Stevenson j  S848b 

The  same;  illus.  by  Wyeth j  S848b2 

Black  Beauty.     Sewell j   S5i6b 

Black  tulip.     Dumas j    D89iib2 

Blackfoot  lodge  tales.     Grinnell j  398.097  G92 

Blatt  fur  blatt.     Lechler j  831  L48 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  395 

Blazed  trail.     White j   \V636b 

Bleak  house.     2v.     Dickens j   D551DI 

Blithe  McBride.     Dix j  D647I) 

Blossom  hosts  and  insect  guests.     Gibson j  581.16  G37 

Blossoms  from  a  Japanese  garden.     Fenollosa j  811  F36 

Blue  aunt.    White j  W632M 

Blue  fairy  book.     Lang j  398  L23 

Blue  heron's  feather.     Holland j  H724M 

Blue  jackets  of  '98.     Abbot j  973.89  A12 

Blue  poetry  book.     Lang j   821.08   L23b 

Blue  true  story  book.     Lang j  904  L23b 

Bluebeard's   picture  book.     Crane qj   398   C867 

Boarded-up  house.     Seaman j    54382b 

Bob  Knight's  diary  at  Poplar  Hill  school.     Smith j  S644b 

Bob,  son  of  Battle.     Ollivant j   0234b 

Bob's  cave  boys.     Burton j  B95ibo 

Bob's  hill  braves.     Burton j  B95ibh 

Bodley  grandchildren.     Scudder j  914.92  S43 

Body  at  work.    Jewett j  612  J31 

Bold  Robin  Hood  and  his  outlaw  band.     Rhead j  398.22  R38 

Bonnie  Prince  Charlie.    Henty j  H456bo 

Book  of  adventure.     Dole j   D694b2 

Book  of   American   wars.      Nicolay j    973   N32 

Book  of  athletics.     Withington j   796  W82 

Book  of  ballad  stories.    MacLeod j  398.21  M19 

Book  of  Celtic  stories.     Grierson j  398  G89b 

Book  of  cheerful  cats.     Francis j  F8671C 

Book  of  Christmas j  394  B63a 

Book  of  days.     2v.     Chambers qrj  394  C35 

Book  of  discovery.     Synge j  910.9  S99 

Book  of  electricity.     Collins j  537  C69 

Book  of  elves  and  fairies.     Olcott j  398  O23 

Book  of  fables.    Scudder j  398.91  A25S 

Book  of  fables  and  folk  stories.     Scudder j  398  S4312 

The  same;  illus.  by  Day j  398  S4Jt*3 

Book  of  famous  poems.     Aldrich j  821.08  A36 

Book  of  famous  sieges.     Jenks j  904  J25 

Book  of  famous  verse.     Repplier j  821.08   R35 

Book  of  folk  stories.     Scudder j  398  S  \,\ 

Book  of  forestry.     Moon j   634.9   M87 

Book  of  games.     White j   793   \Y(>,?1> 

Book   of   gnomes.     Weatherly j    W,v>il> 

Book  of  golden  deeds.     Yonge j  920   Y29 

Book  of  heroic  verse.     Burrell j  821.08   B94 

Book  of  history.     15V qrj  909  B63 

Book  of  holidays.     McSpadden j   394    M22 

Book  of  humor.     Tappan j    I'  [92b 

Book  of  Indian  braves.     Sweetser j   970.2   Nj" 


396 


CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Book  of  joyous  children.     Riley j  811   R45b 

Book  of  King  Arthur  and  his  noble  knights.     MacLeod.  .  .j  398.25  M19 

Book  of  legends.     Scudder j  398.2  S43 

Book  of  magic.     Collins j  133  C69 

Book  of  natural  history.     Jordan j  590-4  J42 

Book  of  nature  myths.     Holbrook j   398  H69 

Book  of  nonsense.     Lear j  827  L45D2 

Book  of  nursery  rhymes j  398.8  M93D 

Book  of  old  English  ballads.     Mabie j  821.08  Mil 

Book  of  patriotism.     Hoar j   172  H64 

Book  of  pictures.     Rackham qj  74i  R12 

Book  of  plays  for  little  actors.    Johnston  &  Barnum j  372.4  J36 

Book  of  romance.     Lang j  398.2  L23 

Book  of  saints  and  friendly  beasts.     Brown j  398.2  B78 

Book  of  saints  and  heroes.     Lang j  922  L23 

Book  of  symbols  for  camp  fire  girls.     Gulick j  369.3  G96 

Book  of  the  blue  sea.    Newbolt j  910.4  N26 

Book  of  the  Camp  Fire  Girls j  369.3  C15 

Book  of  the  childhood  of  Christ qj  755  B63 

Book  of  the  dog.     Haines qj  Hi5ib 

Book  of  the  happy  warrior.     Newbolt j  940.4  N26 

Book  of  the  home  garden.     Fullerton j  635  F98 

Book  of  the  little  past.     Peabody qj  811  P33 

Book  of  the  motor  boat.    Verrill j  629.1232  V28 

Book  of  the  ocean.     Ingersoll j  551-46  124b 

Book  of  the  passion  of  our  Lord qj  755  B63b 

Book  of  the  sagas.     Hoffman j  293  H67 

Book  of  the  sailboat.     Verrill j  797  V28 

Book  of  useful  plants.     Rogers j  630  R61 

Book  of  verse  of  the  great  war.    Wheeler j  821.08  W61 

Book  of  verses  for  children.     Lucas j  821.08  L96 

Book  of  wireless.     Collins j  654.1   C69 

Book  of  wonder  voyages.    Jacobs j  398.2  J13 

Book  of  woodcraft  and  Indian  lore.     Seton j  796.5  S49 

Bookful  of  girls.     Fuller , j  F982b 

"Boots  and  saddles."     Custer j  92  C944cb 

Border  wars  of  New  England.     Drake j  973-2  D78b 

Border  watch.     Altsheler j  A466b 

Boris  in  Russia.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymple j  914-7  B52 

Boris,  the  bear-hunter.     Whishaw j  W626b 

Borrowed  sister.     White j  W632b 

Boston  collection  of  kindergarten  stories j  B644 

Boston  tea  party.     Watson j  973-3  W3ib 

Boston  town.     Scudder j  974-46  S43 

Both  sides  the  border.     Henty j  H456bot 

Boy  and  the  baron.     Knapp j  K335b 

Boy  Blue  and  his  friends.     Blaisdell j  372.4  652b 

Boy  collector's  handbook.     Verrill j  579  V28 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  397 

Boy  craftsman.     Hall j  790  H16 

Boy  electrician.     Houston j   H838I) 

Boy  electrician.     Morgan j  621.3  M89 

Boy  emigrants.     Brooks j   B7732D 

The  same;  illus.  by  Dunn j  B7732D2 

Boy  fancier.     Barton j  636  B28 

Boy  general.     Custer j  92   C944CU 

Boy  in  Eirinn.     Colum j   C727D 

Boy  kings  and  girl  queens.     Marshall j  923.1  M41 

Boy  life  in  the  United  States  navy.     Clark j  C5222D 

Boy  life  of  Napoleon.     Foa j  92  Ni29f 

Boy  life  on  the  prairie.     Garland j  Gi86b 

Boy  Lincoln.     Stoddard j    S869DO 

Boy  mechanic.     2v qj  680  B66 

Boy  mineral  collectors.     Kelley j  549  K16 

Boy  of  Bruges.     Cammaerts j   C154D 

Boy  of  the  first  empire.     Brooks j  B773D 

Boy  officers  of  1812.     Tomlinson j  T597D 

Boy  pioneers.     Beard j  796  B34D 

Boy  scout.     Davis j    0323b 

Boy  scouts  beyond  the  seas.     Baden-Powell j  369.2  Bi4b 

Boy  scouts  book  of  stories.     Mathiews j  M4732b 

Boy  scout's  hike  book.     Cave j  796  C29 

Boy  scouts  in  a  lumber  camp.     Otis j   03i4by 

Boy  scouts  of  Birch-bark  island.     Holland j  H724b 

Boy  scouts  of  Bob's  hill.     Burton j  B95iboy 

Boy  scouts  on  Lost  trail.     Burgess j  6897b 

Boy    settlers.      Brooks j    B7732bo 

Boy  soldiers  of  1812.     Tomlinson j  T597bo 

Boy  travellers  in  Australasia.     Knox j  919.3  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  central  Europe.     Knox j  914  K35bo 

Boy  travellers  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.     Knox j  914.2  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  Mexico.     Knox j  917.2  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  northern  Europe.     Knox j  914  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  South  America.     Knox j  918  K35 

Boy  travellers  in  southern  Europe     Knox j  914  K35I' 

Boy  travellers  in  the  Russian  empire.     Knox j  914.7   K35 

Boy  travellers  on  the  Congo.     Knox j  916.7  K35 

Boy  who  knew  what  the  birds  said.     Colnm j  398  C72 

Boy  who  loved  the  stars.     Toal j  92  I'ru' 

Boy  with  the  U.  S.  explorers.     Rolt-Wheckr j   R6s6be 

Boy  with  the  U.  S.  fisheries.     Rolt-Wheeler j   R656bf 

Boy  with  the  U.  S.  foresters.     Rolt-Wheeler j   R656b 

Boy  with  the  U.  S.  Indians.     Rolt-Wheeler j    R6s6bi 

Boy  with  the  U.  S.  life-savers.     Rolt-Wheeler j   R6s6b1 

Boy  with  the  U.  S.  naturalists.     Rolt-Wheeler j   R05f.hu 

Boy  with  the  U.  S.  survey.      Rolt-Wheeler j    R656DS 

Boy  woodcrafter.     Hawkes j   590-1    H36 


398  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Boyd  Smith  Mother  Goose qj  398.8  M93bo 

Boyhood  in   Norway.     Boyesen j   B669D 

Boyhood  of  famous  authors.     Rideing j  928  R43 

Boys'  and  girls'  ask-at-home  questions.     Bailey j  031  B16 

Boys'  and  girls'  Herodotus.     White j  888  H47D 

Boys'  and  girls'  Pliny.     White j   570  P69 

Boys'  and  girls'  Plutarch.     Plutarch j  920  P72D 

Boys'  book  of  aeroplanes.     Hubbard  &  Turner j  533.652  H87 

Boy's  book  of  battle-lyrics.     English j  81 1   E64 

Boys'  book  of  battles.     Linscott j  904  L72 

Boy's  book  of  battles.     Wood j  904  W85 

Boys'  book  of  explorations.     Jenks j  910.9  J25 

Boys'  book  of  famous  rulers.     Farmer j  923.1   F24b 

Boy's  book  of  famous  warships.     Stevens j  359  S84 

Boys'  book  of  firemen.     Crump j  614.84  C89 

Boys'  book  of  hunting  and  fishing.     Miller j  799  M69 

Boys'  book  of  Indian  warriors.     Sabin j  970.2  Sil 

Boys'  book  of  inventions.     Baker j  609  B17 

Boy's  book  of  mechanical  models.     Stout j  684  S88 

Boys'  book  of  model  aeroplanes.     Collins j  533.6  C71 

Boys'  book  of  mounted  police.     Crump j  351.74  C89 

Boy's  book  of  new  inventions.     Maule j  609  M48a 

Boys'  book  of  policemen.     Crump j  352.2  C89 

Boy's  book  of  rhyme.     Scollard j  811  S42 

Boy's  book  of  science.     Pepper j  530.7  P4ia 

Boys'  book  of  sports.     Rice j  796  R39 

Boys'  book  of  sports  and  outdoor  life.     Thompson j  796  T38b 

Boys'  book  of  stamp  collecting.     Armstrong j  383.2  A73 

Boys'  book  of  steamships.     Howden j  656.8  H84 

Boys'  Browning.     Browning j   821   B8i9b 

Boy's  camp  book.     Cave j  796.5  C29 

Boys'  Cuchulain j   398.2  C91 

Boy's  Froissart.     Froissart j  940.4  F96 

Boys,  girls  and  manners.     Hall j  395   H17 

Boy's  King  Arthur.     Malory j  398.25   M29 

The  same;  illus.  by  Wyeth j  398.25  M29a 

Boys'  life  of  Abraham  Lincoln.     Nicolay j  92  L7i5n 

Boy's  life  of  Edison.     Meadowcroft j  92  E2881T1 

Boys'  life  of  General  Grant.     Knox j  92  G789k 

Boys'  life  of  General  Sheridan.     Goss j  92  S552g 

Boys'  life  of  Lord  Kitchener.    Wheeler j  92  K297W 

Boys'  life  of  Lord  Roberts.    Wheeler j  92  R536W 

Boys'  life  of  Mark  Twain.     Paine j  92  T897P 

Boys'  life  of  Theodore  Roosevelt.     Hagedorn j  92  R684I1 

Boys'  life  of  Ulysses  S.  Grant.     Nicolay j  92  G789n 

Boy's  Mabinogion j   398.25   Mil 

Boys'  make-at-home  things.     Bailey j  790  B15 

Boys'  military  manual.     Collins j  355.5  C71 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  399 

Boys'  Motley.     Banks j  949.-'   B22 

Boys'  Napoleon.     Wheeler j  92   N  [29W 

Boy's  Odyssey.     Perry j  883  Hjsope 

Boys  of  Bob's  hill.     Burton j    E$95lb 

Boys  of  Eastmarsh.     Ames j  .\513b 

Boys  of  1812.     Soley j  973.5  S68 

Boys  of  Fairport.     Brooks j   B7732I2 

Boys  of  Fort  Schuyler.     Otis j  O3 1 4bo 

Boys  of  '98.     Otis j  973.89  O3 1 

Boys  of  other  countries.     Taylor j  T25ib2 

Boys  of  Scrooby.     Hall j   Hi742b 

Boys  of  1745.     Otis j  0314b 

Boys  of  '76.     Coffin j  973.3  C66 

Boys  of  '61.    Coffin j  973.7  C66b2 

Boys  of  the  Rincon  ranch.     Canfield j  Ci7ib 

Boys'  outdoor  vacation  book.     Verrill j  796  V28 

Boy's  own  guide  to  fishing.     Keene j  799  K157 

Boys'  Parkman.     Parkman j  973.2  P24b 

Boy's  Percy.     Percy j  821.08  P42b 

Boy's  playbook  of  science.     Pepper j  530.7  P4ia 

Boy's   ride.     Zollinger j    Z77b 

Boys'  second  book  of  inventions.     Baker j  609  Bi7b 

Boy's  town.     Howells j  H857I) 

Boys  with  Old  Hickory.     Tomlinson j  T597bw 

Boy's  workshop.     Waite j  680   W  1 4 

Brant  and  Red  Jacket.     Seelye  &  Eggleston j  970.3  S45 

Brave   Beowulf j  829  B 4  K a 

Brave  deeds.     Trowbridge j  904  T77b 

Brave  little  Holland.     Griffis j  949.2  G89b 

Bravest  of  the  brave.     Henty j  H456bra 

Breakfast  of  the  birds.     Steinberg qj  S8192I) 

Bride  of  Lammermoor.     Scott j   S43lbri2 

Briefs  for  debate.     Brookings  &  Ringwalt rj  028  B77 

British  Isles  in  pictures.     Barnard qj  914*2   B25 

Brooks  and  brook  basins.     Frye j  551-48  F97 

Brothers  and  sisters.     Brown j    6784b 

Brown  fairy  book.     Lang j  398   1 .- :.d>r 

Brownie  book,  Another.     Cox qj  (  s.-.vi 

Brownie  primer.     Judd j  372.4  J49 

The  brownies.     Ewing j  E975b 

The  same j    E975I0 

Brownies  abroad.     Cox qj   1  853ba 

Brownies  around  the  world.     Cox qj    *  !853bro 

Brownies  at  home.     Cox qj   (  ^53'"' 

Brownies  in  the   Philippines.     Cox qj   l  "85.^'P 

Brownies'  latest  adventures.     Cox qj   ( 1853^0 

Brownies,  their  book.     Cox qj   <  853b 

Brownies  through  the  Union.     Cox qj   C853bu 


400  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

The  Browns.     Smith j  S655D 

Buben  und  madel's.     Bliithgen qj  831   B57 

Buccaneers  and  pirates.     Stockton j  910.4  S86 

Buckle  my  shoe  picture  book.     Crane qj  C867ib 

Bud  and  Bamboo.     Thomson j  915. 1  T38 

Bugle  calls  of  liberty.     Southworth  &  Paine j  808.8  S72 

Building  the  nation.     Coffin j  973  C66 

Bunnikins-Bunnies  and  the  moon  king.     Davidson j   D297bn 

Bunnikins-Bunnies  in  camp.     Davidson j   0297b 

Bunnikins-Bunnies  in  Europe.     Davidson j   D297bu 

Bunny  stories.     Jewett j  J3i6ib 

Busy  hands.     Bowker j  372  B66 

Butterflies  and  bees.    Morley j  595.7  M91  v.2 

Butterflies  and  moths.     Duncan j  595.78  D89 

Butterfly  and  moth  book.     Miller j  595.78  M69 

Butterfly  book.     Holland qj   595.78  H72 

Butterfly  guide.     Holland j  595.78  H72b 

Buz.    Noel j  595.79  N39 

By  England's  aid.     Henty j  H456b 

By  Eskimo  dog-sled  and  kayak.     Hutton j  917.19  H97 

By  land  and  sea j  910  B99 

By  pike   and  dyke.     Henty j    H456by 

By  right  of  conquest.     Henty j  H456br 

By  sheer  pluck.     Henty j   H456bys 

Cab  and  caboose.     Munroe j  M968cab 

Cable  story  book.     Cable j  Ci  13c 

Cadet  days.     King j  K263ca 

Cadet  Standish  of  the  St.  Louis.     Drysdale j  D853C 

Caged  lion.     Yonge j  Y29ca 

Caldecott's  collection  of  pictures  &  songs.    2v.     Caldecott.J  821  C12C 

Caldecott's  picture  book.    2v.     Caldecott j  821  Ci2p 

Calico   cat.     Thompson j   T379C 

Call  of  the  wild.     London j  L822ca 

Cambridge  book  of  poetry.     Grahame j  821.08  G77 

Camp  Bob's  hill.     Burton j   B951C 

Camp  Venture.     Eggleston j   E357ica 

Campaigning  with  Crook.     King j   K263cam 

Camping  in  the  winter  woods.     Gregor j   G865C 

Camping  on  the  St.  Lawrence.     Tomlinson j  T597C 

Campmates.     Munroe j    M968C 

Camps  and  firesides  of  the  Revolution.    Hart j  973.3  H31 

Canoeing  in  the  wilderness.     Thoreau .j  917.41  T39 

Canoemates.     Munroe .' j  M968ca 

Canterbury  chimes.     Storr  &  Turner j  821   C41C 

Canterbury  pilgrims,  Story  of.     Chaucer j  821  C41SC 

Canterbury  pilgrims,  Tales  of  the.     Darton j  821  C4U 

Captain  Chap.     Stockton j  S866ca 

Captain  Jack  the  scout.     McKnight j  M187C 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST 


401 


Captain  January.     Richards j   R411C 

Captain  Kodak.     Black j    B513C 

Captain  of  the  crew.     Barbour j   B235C 

Captain  of  the  eleven.     Knipe j   K346C 

Captain  of  the  school  team.     Earl j   E1732C 

Captain  Polly.     Swett j  So75ca 

Captain  Sam.     Eggleston j   E3571C 

Captains  courageous.     Kipling j   K278C 

Captains  of  industry.     2v.     Parton j  926  P27 

Captive   royal   children.      Whitham j   942   W64 

Captured  Santa  Claus.      Page j   P145C 

Careers  for  the  coming  men.     Reid j   174  R31 

Careers  of  danger  and  daring.     Moffett j  604  M76 

Careless  Jane.     Pyle j  811   P99C 

Caroline.      Abbott j    A132C2 

Carpentry  &  mechanics.     Hall j  790  Hi6c 

Carpentry  and  woodwork.     Foster j  684  F81 

Carpentry  for  beginners.     Adams j  684  A21 

"Carrots."      Molesworth j    M78gcar 

Carved  lions.     Molesworth j   M789ca 

Cast  away  in  the  cold.     Hayes j  H372C 

Casting  away  of  Airs  Leeks  and  Mrs  Aleshine.     Stockton.  . .  .j  S866cas 

Castle  Blair.     Shaw j  S534C 

Castle  of  four  towers.     Syrett j  S995C 

Castle  of  Zion.     Hodges j  221  H66 

Cat  of  Bubastes.     Henty j    H456ct 

Cat   stories.     Carter j    C237C 

Cat  stories.     Jackson j  J  124c 

Cats'  Arabian  nights.     Diaz j   D539C 

Cattle  ranch  to  college.     Doubleday j  D754C 

Cave,  mound  and  lake  dwellers.     Holbrook j  571   H69 

Celtic  fairy  tales.     Jacobs j  398  J  13 

Celtic  stories,  Book  of.     Grierson j  398  G89b 

Century  book  for  young  Americans.     Brooks j  342.7  B77 

Century  book  of  famous  Americans.     Brooks j  923  r.77 

Century  book  of  the  American  colonies.     Brooks j  973. 2   i '. 7 7 

Century  book  of  the  American  revolution.     Brooks j  973.3   I '» 77 

Century  cyclopedia  of  names qrj  031   C.U'i'-' 

Cera  una  volta.     Capuana qj   853  C18 

Chansons  de  France j  7S4.4  (   1 1 

Chaplet  of  pearls.     Yonge j   Y29C 

Charlemagne.      Bulfinch j    398.26    R87 

Charles  O'Malley.     Lever '. j   1.004c 

Chaucer  for  children.     Chaucer qj  Sji    c'41 

Chaucer  for  schools.     Chaucer j  821   Gfich 

Chaucer  story  book.    Tappan j  821  C4icha 

Cheerful  cats,  Book  of.     Francis j   F867IC 

Chicken    world.      Smith j    S646C 


402 


CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 
Ch 


Id  at  play.    Murray j  372.4  M97 

Id  life;  a  first  reader.     Blaisdell j  808.8  B52 

Id  life  fifth  reader.    Blaisdell j  808.8  B52CI1I 

Id  life  in  Chinese  homes.     Bryson j  915. 1  B84 

Id-life  in  Japan.     Ayrton j  915.2  A98C 

Id  life  in  literature.     Blaisdell j  808.8  B52chi 

Id  life  in  many  lands.    Blaisdell j  808.8  B52ch 

Id  life  in  prose.     Whittier j  W66ic 

Id  life  in  tale  and  fable.    Blaisdell j  808.8  B52C 

Id  life ;  poems.     Whittier j  821.08  W66 

Id  life  primer.     Blaisdell j  372.4  B52 

Id-lore  dramatic  reader.     Bryce j  372.4  B84C 

Id  of  Urbino.     Ramee j   R175C 

ld-rhymes.     Riley j  811   R45ril 

Id-sketches  from  George  Eliot.     Magruder j  E476C 

Id  songs  of  cheer.     Stein j  811  S81 

Id  stories  and  rhymes.     Poulsson j   P866c 

Id-world.     Riley j  811  R45 

ldhood.     Sowerby qj   821   S73 

ldren  of  other  days.     Moore qj  757  M87 

ldren  of  the  Arctic.    Peary qj  919.8  P353C 

ldren  of  the  cold.     Schwatka j  919.8  S41 

ldren  of  the  New  forest.    Marryat j  M412C 

ldren  of  the  wild.     Deming j  D421C 


ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 
ldren 


s  book.     Scudder qj  808.8  S43 

s  book  of  art.     Conway j  759  C76 

s  book  of  ballads.     Tileston j  821.08  T46C 

s  book  of  Christmas.     Dier qj  394  D57 

s  book  of  Christmas  stories.     Dickinson  &  Skinner.,  .j  D552C 

s  book  of  English  minsters.     Grierson j  283  G89 

s  book  of  gardening.     Sidgwick  &  Paynter j  716  S56 

s  book  of  London.     Mitton j  914.21  M75 

s  book  of  patriotic  stories.     Dickinson j  D552ch 

s  book  of  poetry.     Coates j  821.08  C62C 

s  book  of  Thanksgiving  stories.     Dickinson j  D552ct 

s  city.     Singleton j  917.471  S61 

s  classics  in  dramatic  form.     5v.     Stevenson j  793.1   S84 

s  corner.     Elkin j   E488C 

s  gardens.     Parsons j  716.6  P26 

s  garland  from  the  best  poets.     Patmore j  821.08  P29 

s  history  book j   973  C43 

s  hour.     Longfellow j  811   L82ch2 

s  hour.     Tileston j  398.8  T46 

s  letters.     Colson  &  Chittenden j  826  C72 

s  life  of  Abraham  Lincoln.     Putnam j  92  L715P 

s  London.     Thorpe qj  914.21  T41 

s    Longfellow.      Longfellow j   811    L82chi 

s  parties.     Crozier j   790  C89 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIM  403 

Children's  Plutarch;  tales  of  the  Greeks.     Gould j  920   I'7-.'xk 

Children's  Plutarch;  tales  of  the  Romans.     Gould j  920  IJ72zgc 

Children's  Shakespeare.     Hoffman j  822.33   1  [20 

Children's  singing  games.    5  pts.  in  iv.    Gomme  &  Sharp,  .qj  784.8  G59 

Children's  souvenir  song  book.     Tomlins qj  784.8  T59C 

Children's  stories  in  American  history.     Wright j  970  W93 

Children's  stories  in  American  literature.     2v.     Wright.... j  810.9  W93 

Children's  stories  in  English  literature.     2v.     Wright j  820.9  W93 

Children's  stories  of  American  progress.     Wright j  973  W93 

Children's  stories  of  the  great  scientists.     Wright j  925  W93 

Children's  tales  from  Scottish  ballads.     Grierson j  398.21  G89 

Children's  treasury  of  English  song.     Palgrave j  821.08  Pi8c 

Child's  book  of  health.     Blaisdell j  613  BS2a 

Child's  book  of  nature.    3  pts.  in  iv.     Hooker j  581  H77C 

Child's  book  of  old  verses.     Smith j  821.08  S65 

Child's  book  of  saints.     Canton j  398.2  C17C 

Child's  book  of  stories.     Coussens j  398  C84 

Child's  book  of  the  teeth.     Ferguson j  617.6  F38 

Child's  book  of  warriors.     Canton j   398.2  C17 

Child's  calendar  beautiful.     Beeson j  808.8  B38 

Child's  day.     Hutchinson j  613   H97 

Child's  dream  of  a  star.     Dickens j  D551C 

Child's  English  literature.     Marshall j  820.9  M  ji 

Child's  food  garden.     Kilpatrick j  716  K25 

Child's  garden  of  verses.     Stevenson j  821  S84 

The  same;  illus.  by  Robinson j  821  S84a2 

The  same;  illus.  by  Smith j   821    S84a 

Child's  guide  to  mythology.     Clarke j  291  C53 

Child's  harvest  of  verse.     Tileston j  821.08  T4M1  h 

Child's  history  of  England.     Dickens j  942  D55 

Child's  history  of  France.     Bonner j  944  B62 

Child's  history  of  Ireland.     Joyce j  941.5  J48C 

Child's  journey  with  Dickens.     Wiggin j  92  D551W 

Child's  primer  of  natural  history.     Herford j  817  H46C 

Child's  story.     Dickens j   D551C 

Chilhowee  boys.     Morrison j    M919C 

Chin,  our  little  Siamese  cousin.     Wade j  915.9  Wll 

Chinese  boy  and  girl.     Headland j  915 .1    H38 

Chinese  child's  day.     Terhune qj  784.8  T31 

Chinese  fables  and  folk  stories.     Davis  &  Cho w- Leung. ..  .j  398.9]    D32 

Chinese  Mother  Goose  rhymes.     Headland j  398.8   H38 

Chola,  our  little  Hindu  cousin.     M  c Maims j  915.4  M21 

Choosing  a  career.     Marden j   174   M37 

Chris  and  the  wonderful  lamp.     Stearns j   S799C 

Christ-child  in   art.     Van    Dyke j   755    Vl8 

Christ  in  art.     French j  755   I  ■>- 

Christabel.     Coleridge j  821   I  !68 

Christmas.     Schauffler j   394   S3IC 


404  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Christmas  angel.     Brown j   B784C 

Christmas  angel.     Pyle j   P9961CI1 

Christmas  books.     Dickens j   D55ich 

Christmas  carol.     Dickens j  Dssichr 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rackham j  D55ichr2 

Christmas  carols.     Tomlins qj  783.6  T59 

Christmas  dream.     Moffat qj  782.8  M76 

Christmas  every  day.     Howells j   H857ch 

Christmas  in  legend  and  story.     Smith  &  Hazeltine j  394  S64 

Christmas  porringer.     Stein j   S819C 

Christmas  tales  of  Flanders qj  398  C462 

Christmas-tree  land.     Molesworth j  M789CI12 

Chronicles  of  Sir  John  Froissart.     Froissart .  .j  940.4  F96C 

Chrystal,  Jack  &  Co.     Munroe j  M968CI1 

Cinderella.     Lang j  398  L23C 

Cinderella's  picture  book.     Crane qj  398  C867C 

Ciondolino.     Bertelli j    B462P 

Circus  and  all  about  it.     Smith j  S646C1 

Circus  reader.     Buffington j  372.4  B86 

City  of  the  seven  hills.    Harding j  937  H25 

Civics  of  Pennsylvania.     Pierson j  353-9  P57 

Civil  war.     Barstow j  973-7  B27 

Civil  war  stories j  C496 

La  civilite  puerile  et  honnete.     Plon j  843  P71 

Classic  myths  in  English  literature.     Gayley j  292  G25a 

Classic  stories  for  the  little  ones.    McMurry j  M214C 

Classroom  practice  in  design.     Haney v  .  .qj  745  H23 

Clay  work.     Lester j  731  L65 

Clean  Peter  and  the  children  of  Grubbylea.     Adelborg j  A228C 

Clematis.     Cobb j    C629C 

Cloister  and  the  hearth.     Reade j  R253C 

Clover.     Coolidge j  C783C 

Coal  and  the  coal  mines.     Greene j  622.33  G83 

Cock-a-doodle  hill.     Haines j  Hi5ic 

The  cock,  the  mouse  and  the  little  red  hen.     Lefevre j  398  L53 

Colette  in  France.     Blaisdell j  914.4  B52 

Collection  of  poetry  for  school  reading.     White j  821.08  W63 

College  years.     Paine j  P164C 

Collegiate  dictionary.     Webster rj  423  W38C2 

Colonial  children.     Hart j  973.2  H31 

Colonial    stories j    C722 

Colonists  and  the  Revolution.     Barstow j  973.2  B27 

Colonization  of  America.     Gilman j  973.2   G42 

Come  and  sing  with  me.     Everson qj  784  E95 

Come  play  with  me.     Miller j  811  M69 

Comedy  of  errors.     Shakespeare j  822.33  O5 

Coming  of  the  white  men.     Wade j  973.1  Wn 

Commercial  and  industrial  geography.     Keller  &  Bishop.  .  .  .j  910  K165 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  405 

Commercial  geography.     Chisholm rj  910   C44 

Commodore     Bainbridge.      Barnes j    B2561C 

Complete  version  of  Ye  three  blind  mice.      Ivimey j    I335C 

Conquest  of  the  old  Northwest.     Baldwin j  977  B19C 

Conspiracy  of  Pontiac.     2v.     Parkman j  973.2  P24 

Construction  and  flying  of  kites.     Miller j  533.6  M69 

Conundrums,  riddles,  puzzles  and  games.     Cutter j  793  C95 

Conversations  on  chemistry.     2v.     Ostwald j  540  O29 

Coping  saw  work.     Johnson j  684  J35 

Copper  work.     Rose j  739  R71 

Coral  island.     Ballantyne j    B213C 

Coriolanus.     Shakespeare j  822.33  S3 

Corn  plants.     Sargent j  633.13  S24 

Cornet  of  horse.     Henty j  H456C0 

Cossack  fairy  tales  and  folk-tales.     Bain j  398  B16 

Costumes  and  scenery  for  amateurs.     Mackay j  793.12  M17 

Counterpane   fairy.      Pyle j    P9961C 

Country  of  the  dwarfs.     Du  Chaillu j  916.7  D86c 

Country  pastimes.     Graham j  796  G77 

Course  in   citizenship.     Cabot j    172   Cn 

Court  of  King  Arthur.     Frost j  398.25  F96C 

Cranford.     Gaskell j  G215C 

Crayon,  chalk  and  pencil  drawing.     Clayton j  741  C55 

Crib  and  Fly.     Dole j  D6942C 

Cricket  on  the  hearth.     Dickens j  D55icr 

Crimson   sweater.     Barbour j    B^35cr 

Crofton  boys.     Martineau j   M43IC 

Crofton  chums.     Barbour j   B235CO 

Crooked  trails.     Remington j   R333c 

Cross  Patch.     Coolidge j   C783cr 

Crowded  out  o'  Crofield.     Stoddard j  S869cr 

Cruikshank  fairy-book.     Cruikshank j  398  C89 

Cruise  of  the  Cachalot.     Bullen j  910.4  B87 

Cruise  of  the  Canoe  club.     Alden j  A359C 

Cruise  of  the  Cormorant.     Verrill j  V282C 

Cruise  of  the  Dazzler.     London j  L822C 

Cruise  of  the  "Ghost."     Alden j   A359cr 

Cruise  of  the  yacht  ''Dido."     Roberts j   R536C 

Cruising  on  the  St.  Lawrence.    Tomlinson j    1 

The  cuckoo  clock.     Molesworth j   M789C112 

The   same j    M  789CU 

The  same;  illus.  by  Kirk j  M789CU3 

Cuore.     Amicis .1  853  A.5IC 

The  same;  tr.  by  Hapgood j  A51OC 

Cupid  and  Chow-chow.     Alcott j   A355. 

Curiosities  of  popular  customs.     Walsh rj  304  W  18 

Curiosity  Kate.     Bone j  B623C 

Curious  homes  and  their  tenants.     Beard i   ^)^-5~   B34 


4o6  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Cyclopaedia  of  English  literature.     3v.     Chambers qrj  820.9  C35 

Cyclopaedia  of  practical  quotations.     Hoyt  &  Ward.... qrj  808.8  H86c 

Daddy  Darwin's  dovecot.     Ewing j  Eo75d 

Daddy  Jake  the  runaway.     Harris j   H2Q3d 

Dago,  Story  of.     Johnston j   J367S 

Daisy  chain.     Yonge j   Y2Qda 

"Dame  Curtsey's"  book  of  games.     Glover j  790  G51 

Dame  Wiggins  of  Lee.     Sharpe j  821  S53 

Dandelion   cottage.     Rankin j    Ri9-|d 

Danish  fairy  &  folk  tales.     Bay j  398  B33 

Danish  fairy  tales.     Grundtvig j  398  G94d 

Danish    folk    dances.      Copenhagen,    Foreningen    til     Folke- 

dansens  Fremme j  793.3  C79d 

Dash  for  Khartoum.     Henty j   H456d 

Daughter  of  the  rich  and  her  friends.    Waller j  Wi8id 

David   Balfour.      Stevenson j    S848d 

David  Copperfield.     2v.     Dickens j   D55id2 

Davy  and  the  goblin.     Carryl j  C2333d 

Day  in  an  iron-works.     Cooke j  669.1  C77 

Day  with  leather  workers.     Cooke j  685.32  C77 

Days  and  deeds.     Stevenson j  821.08  S84 

Days  before  history.     Hall j  571  H17 

Dear  old  story-tellers.     Adams j  928  A21 

Decatur  and  Somers.     Seawell j  S442d 

Deerslayer.     Cooper j  C787d 

Delta  Bixby.     Munroe j   M968ch 

Derrick  Sterling.     Munroe j  M968de 

Descriptive    review    showing    development    of    Pennsylvania. 

Cram qrj    917.48    C86 

Dick  among  the  lumber-jacks.     Dimock j  DS95d 

Dick  in  the  Everglades.     Dimock j  D595di 

Dick  Whittington.     Lang j   398  L23hi 

Dickens  dramatic  reader.     Comstock j  793.1  D55C 

Dickens's   children.      Smith j    D551ZS 

Dictionary  of  dainty  breakfasts.     Hamer  &  Payne j  641  H19 

Did  of  Didn't-think.     Inraan j   I24626. 

Discoverers  and  explorers.     Shaw j  910.9  S53 

Discoveries  and  inventions  of  the  19th  century.    Routledge.  .j  609  R78d 

Discovery  and  exploration  of  America.     Gilman j  973.1  G42 

Discovery  of  the  old  Northwest.     Baldwin j  977  B19 

Divine  and  moral  songs.     Watts j  821   W33 

Dixie  kitten.     Tappan j   Ti92d 

Dixie   Rose.     Kortrecht j    K387d 

Docas,  the  Indian  boy  of  Santa  Clara.     Snedden j  S67id 

Doctor  Jekyll  and  Mister  Hyde.     Stevenson ." j  S848S 

The  doers.     Hopkins j  H786d 

Dog  of  Flanders.     Ramee j  Ri75d2 

The  same j   Ri75d4 


CHILDREN'S   HOOKS— TITLE  LIST  407 

Dog's  mission.     Stowe j  S8o2do 

Doing  his  best.     Trowbridge j  T773d 

Dolls  of  many  lands.     Wade j  Wn8d 

Dolph  Heyliger.     Irving j  817  l28d 

Dombey  and  son.    2v.     Dickens j  D55ido2 

Don  Quixote.     Cervantes j  C33415 

Donald  and  Dorothy.     Dodge j  D67id 

Donald  in  Scotland.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymple j  914. 1  B52 

Donegal  fairy  stories.     MacManus j  398   M21 

Donkey  John  of  the  Toy  valley.     Morley j  M9iid 

Dora's  housekeeping.      Kirkland j   641    K28d 

Dorymates.     Munroe j   Mg68d 

Dove  in  the  eagle's  nest.     Yonge j  Y29d 

Down    the    ravine.      Craddock j    C8s8do 

Dragon  and  the  raven.     Henty j  H456dr 

Dramatic  reader  for  lower  grades.     Holbrook j  372.4  H69d 

Dramatization.     Simons  &  Orr j  793.1  S61 

Drummer  boy.     Trowbridge j   T773dr 

Dutch  ditties  for  children.     Terhune qj  784.8  T3id 

Dutch  twins.     Perkins j    P434d 

Dwarfs'  tailor.     Underhill *. j  398  U25 

Each  and  all.     Andrews j  910  As6e 

Early  speeches.     Lincoln j   815    L71 

Earth  and  its  story.     Heilprin j  55 1  H41 

Earth  in  past  ages.     Herrick j  550   1 1  i~ 

East  o'  the  sun  and  west  o'  the  moon.    Thorne-Thomsen .  .  .j  398  T411 
East  of  the  sun  and  west  of  the  moon.    Asbjornsen  &  Moe. . qj  398  Ajoe 

Easter.     Rice j  808.8  R39 

Echo-maid.     Aspinwall j    AN  1  n .-_■ 

Editha's  burglar.     Burnett j   B934ed 

Ednah  and  her  brothers.     White j  W632e 

Egyptian  princess.     Ebers j    E2l8e 

Eight    cousins.      Alcott j    A355e 

Electric  toy  making.     Sloane j  537-8i  S63a2 

Electricity  and  its  everyday  uses.     Woodhull j  621.3  W86 

Electricity  and  magnetism.     Jackson j  537  J  12 

Electricity  for  young  people.     Jeuks j  621.309  J25 

Electricity  simplified.     Sloane j  537-1   S'\U 

Elementary  physical   geography.      Davis j    551    D32C 

Elements  of  astronomy.     Newcomb j  520  N26 

Elements  of  civil  government.     Mowry j   353    M'U-' 

Elements  of  civil  government  in  the  commonwealth  of  Penn- 
sylvania.     Philips j    353    Mo  11 

Elements  of  mechanical  drawing.     Anthony j  711   A.02ea 

Elizabeth's   charm-string.      Forbes j    398.2    I r 7 5 

Ellen   Linn.     Abbott j    \i.uvj 

Elliott   Gray,  jr.      Maynanl j    M538e 

Emergencies.      Gulick i    614.88   Gq6 


4o8  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Emmeline.     Singmaster j   S6i7e 

Empire  story.     Marshall j  900  M41 

End  of  a  rainbow.    Johnson j  J364e 

English  Bodley  family.     Scudder j  914.2  S43 

English  fairy  tales.     Jacobs j  398  Ji3e 

English  fairy  tales.    Steel j  398  S8ie 

English   literature.      Marshall j   820.9    M41 

Epic  of  kings.    Firdausi j  891.5  F5ie 

Escursione  nel  3004.    Guerra j  853  G95 

Eskimo  stories.     Smith j  919.8  S65 

Eskimo   twins.      Perkins j    P434e 

Essentials  of  woodworking.     Griffith j  684  G89 

Eton  boy's   letters.     Bankes j    B2272e 

European  beginnings  of  American  history.     Atkinson j  940  A87 

European  hero  stories.     Tappan j  940  T 19 

Evangeline.     Longfellow j  811   L82e2 

Eve  of  St.  Agnes.     Keats j  821  K15 

Evening  tales.     Ortoli j   0288e 

Evenings  at  home.     Aikin  &  Barbauld j  504  A29 

Every  boy's  book  of  handicraft,  sports  and  amusements. 

Fraser • j    790   F88 

Every  boy's  book  of  hobbies.     Bullivant j  790  B87 

Every  child's  folk  songs  and  games.     Bailey qj  784.8  B15 

Every  day  heroes j    E958e 

Every  day  life  in  the  colonies.     Stone  &  Fickett j  917.3  S87 

Everyday  birds.     Torrey j   598.2  T63e 

Experimental  electricity.     Trevert j  537.81  T73a 

Experimental  science.     2v.     Hopkins j  530.7  H78e 

Explorers  and  settlers.     Barstow j  973.1   B27 

Express   messenger.      Warman j    \V232e 

Extinct  animals.     Lankester j  560  L26 

Eye  spy.     Gibson j  570.4  G37e 

Eyebright.      Coolidge j    C783e 

Eyes  and  no  eyes.     Aikin j  A29ie 

Eyes  and  no  eyes.     Buckley j  570.4  B85e 

Ezra  Jordan's  escape.     Otis j  03i4e 

Fables.     ^Esop j  398.91  A25f  1 

The  same;  illus.  by  Detmold j  398.91  A25fd 

The  same;  retold  by  Godolphin j  398.91  A25fg 

The  same;  tr.  by  Jones j  398.91  A25fj 

Fables  and  folk  stories.     Scudder j  398  S43f 

Fables  choisies  pour  les  enfants.     La  Fontaine j  398.91  Li4f 

Fables  from  afar.     Bryce j  372.4  B84f 

Facing  death.     Henty j   H456f a 

Faerie  queene,  Stories  from  the.     MacLeod j  821  S741TI 

Faery  tales.     Andersen j    A544fy4 

Fagots  for  the  fireside.     Hale j  793  H16 

Fair  maid  of  Perth.     Scott j  S4311 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  409 

Fairchild   family.      Sherwood j    S5541 

Fairport  nine.     Brooks j   B773212 

Fairy  book.     Craik j  398  C86 

The  same;  illus.  by  Goble qj  398  C86a 

Fairy-gold.     Rhys j   398   R38 

Fairy-land  of  science.     Buckley j  570.4  B85 

Fairy  life.     Haaren j   Hi i3f 

Fairy  plays  for  children.     Goodlander j  793.1  G62 

Fairy  reader.     Baldwin j  398  Bi9fa 

Fairy  ring.     Wiggin   &  Smith j  398  W68f 

Fairy  stories j   F1692 

Fairy  stories  and  fables.     Baldwin j  398  Bi9f 

Fairy  tale  and  fable.     Thompson .  .  j  372.4  T38f 

Fairy  tale  plays  and  how  to  act  them.     Bell j  793.1  B41 

Fairy  tales;  tr.  by  Lucas.     Andersen j   AS44fy 

The  same;  tr.  by  Sommer j  A544fs 

The  same;  illus.  by  Browne j  A544t"ai5 

The  same;  illus.  by  Robinson qj  A544fai3 

The  same;  illus.  by  Stratton j  A544fai2 

The   same qj    A544t"ai 

Fairy  tales.     Aulnoy j   A924f 

Fairy  tales.     Grimm j   398   Ggifd 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rackham j  398  G9ifr2 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rackham qrj  398  G91 

Fairy  tales.     Hauff j   H35if 

Fairy  tales.     Laboulaye j  398  Li  1  fa  ■ 

Fairy  tales.     Perrault j  398  P431 

Fairy  ta4es.     Wilde j  \V714f 

Fairy  tales  and  stories.     Andersen qj  .\544ir 

Fairy  tales  and  wonder  stories.     Andersen j  A54  (fai  | 

Fairy  tales  every  child  should  know.     Mabie j  398  M  1  131 

Fairy  tales  from  the  Arabian  nights j  398  A6512 

Fairy  tales  from  the  far  North.     Asbjornsen j  398  A,-'" 

Fairy  tales  from  the  French.     Segur j   S  \$6i 

Fairy  tales  from  the  Swedish.     Djurklou j  398  D<>4 

Fairy  tales  of  all  nations.     Laboulaye j  398  Lu 

Fairy  tales  of  the  Slav  peasants.     Chodzko j  398  C'44a 

Fairy  world.     Asbjornsen j   398   A;wta 

Faith   Gartney's  girlhood.     Whitney j    W'1511 

Faithless  Nelly  Gray.     Hood j  821    1 1  76 

Fall  of  the  year.     Sharp j  500 .4  S5.U 

Familiar  animals  and  tlu-ir  wild  kindred.     Monteith j  5< ><>  M85 

Familiar  features  of  the  roadside.     Mathews j  570.4   M  r 

Familiar  quotations.     Bartlett rj  808.8   B27 

Familiar  trees  and  their  leaves.     Mathews j  5s-'  M  )."•' 

Family  of  the  sun.     Holden j  523  1 1  7' 

Famous  adventures  and  prison  escapes j  973-7   ''-'' 

Famous  American   statesmen.     Bolton j  923.2  B61 


410  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Famous  Americans  of  recent  times.     Parton j  920  P27 

Famous  battles  by  land  and  sea.     Long j  904  L82 

Famous  buildings.     Barstow j  720.9  B27 

Famous  cavalry  leaders.     Johnston j  923.5  J36 

Famous  discoverers  and  explorers.     Johnston j  923.9  J36 

Famous  explorers.     Sparks j  910  S73f 

Famous  fairy  tales.     Field j  398  F458 

Famous  Indian  chiefs.     Johnston j  970.2  J36 

Famous  Indian  chiefs  I  have  known.     Howard j  970.2  H84 

Famous  leaders  among  men.     Bolton j  920  B6if 

Famous  leaders  among  women.     Bolton j  920.7  B6ifa 

Famous  men  of  Greece.     Haaren  &  Poland j  920  H113 

Famous  men  of  modern  times.     Haaren  &  Poland j  920  Hii3fm 

Famous  men  of  Rome.     Haaren  &  Poland .j  920  Hii3f 

Famous  men  of  the  middle  ages.     Haaren  &  Poland j  920  Hii3fa 

Famous  pictures.     Barstow j   759  B27 

Famous  poems.     Aldrich j  821.08  A36 

Famous  scouts.     Johnston j  920  J36 

Famous  stories  every  child  should  know.     Mabie j  Mii3f 

Famous  travels.     Henty j  910  H45f 

Famous  travels  and  travellers.     Verne j  923.9  V27f 

Famous  types  of  womanhood.     Bolton j  920.7  B6if 

Famous  voyages  of  the  great  discoverers.     Wood j  973.1  W85 

Farm  book.     Smith j   S646f 

Farm  life  readers;  book  five.     Evans j  808.8  E94a 

Farm-rhymes.      Riley j    811    R45H 

Fast  friends.     Trowbridge j   T773f 

Fast  mail.     Drysdale j    D853f 

Favourites  of  a  nursery  of  seventy  years  ago.     Forbes j  821.08  F75 

Fearless  trio.     Boyesen j  B669a 

Feathers,  furs  and  fins j  590.4  F31 

Feats  on  the  fiord.     Martineau j  M43if 

Fernley  house.     Richards j   R41  ife 

Festival  plays.     Merington j   812   M63f 

F: 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 


eld  and  forest  handy  book.     Beard j  790  B34 

eld  and  study.     Burroughs j  570.4  B94 

eld  book  of  American  wild  flowers.     Mathews j  580  M47a 

eld  book  of  insects.     Lutz j  595.7  L98 

eld  of  Waterloo.     Scott j  821  S43I4 

fe  and  drum  at  Louisbourg.     Oxley j  0354f 

fth  reader.     Alexander j   808.8   A37 

fth  reader.     Spaulding  &  Bryce j  808.8  S73b 

fty  children's  songs.     Reinecke qj  784.8  R31 

fty  famous  people.     Baldwin j  904  Bi9f 

fty  famous  stories  retold.     Baldwin j  904  B19 

ghters  for  peace.     Parkman j  923.5   P24 

ghting  a  fire.     Hill j  352.3  H55a 

lies  et  garqons.     France qj  843  F86f 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  411 

Final  reckoning.     Henty j    H456fi 

Finch  first  reader.     Finch j  372.4  F4of 

Finch  primer.     Finch j  372.4  F49 

Findelkind.     Ramee j   Ri75> 

Finella  in  fairyland.     Brown j  B785f 

Fire-fly's  lovers.     Grif fis j  398  G894 

The  fireman.     Jenks j  614.84  J25 

First  across  the  continent.    Brooks j  917-8  B77 

First  aid  for  boys.     Cole  &  Ernst j  614.88  C68 

First  book  in  American  history.     Eggleston j  973  E35 

First  book  of  birds.     Miller j  598.2  M69f 

First  book  of  forestry.     Roth j  634.9  R75 

First  book  of  photography.     Claudy j  770  C54a 

First  Christmas  tree.     Van  Dyke j  Vi87f 

First  lesson  in  natural'  history.     Agassiz j  593  A26 

First  lessons  in  aeronautics.     Kasmar j  533.6  K13 

First  lessons  with  plants.     Bailey j  580.7  B16 

First  reader.     Alexander j  372.4  A37 

First  reader.    Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75 

First  reader.     Blodgett j  372-4  B55f 

First  reader.    Van  Sickle  &  Seegmiller j  372.4  V17 

First  steps  in  geography.     Frye qj  910  F97f 

First  steps  in  the  history  of  our  country.    Mowry j  973  M94a 

First  studies  in  music  biography.     Tapper j  927.8  T19 

First  studies  of  plant  life.     Atkinson j  581  A87 

Fishing  and  hunting.     Mott  &  Dutton j  910  M94 

Five  little  Peppers  abroad.     Sidney j   Sso9fv 

Five  little  Peppers  and  how  they  grew.     Sidney j  Ss6of 

Five  little  Peppers  and  their  friends.     Sidney j  S569fve 

Five  little  Peppers  at  school.    Sidney j  S56gfl 

Five  little  Peppers  grown  up.     Sidney j  S569fiv 

Five  little  Peppers  midway.     Sidney j  Ss69fi 

Five  little  strangers.     Schwartz j  910  S39 

Five  mice  in  a  mouse-trap.     Richards j   R41  1  li 

Five-minute  declamations.    2v.     Fobes j  808.8  F68 

Five  minute  stories.     Richards j   R41 1  f 

The    flag.      Greene j    ( 1835^ 

Flag  day.     Schauffler j  808.8  S31  i 

Flags  of  the  world.     Hulme j  929.9   I  [9] 

Flags  of  the  world.     M 1  <  landless  &  Grosvenor (|j  929.9  M  1  2 

Flamehair  the  skald.     Bedford-Jones j   I'.^rt' 

Flamingo  feather.      Mini  roc j    M968I 

Flat  iron  for  a  farthing.     Ewing j   E975J 

Flight  of    Pony    I  laker.     Howells j    H 

Flint   heart.      PhillpottS j    I'-iSt 

Floating  prince.     Stockton j    S866f 

Floor  games.     Wells j  793  W49 

Flower  princess.      Brown 1    B784I 


412  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Flower  wedding.     Crane.... qj    C86711 

Flowers  and  their  friends.     Morley j  580.4  M91 

Flowers  from  Shakespeare's  garden.     Crane qj  C867ifl 

Fly-aways  and  other  seed  travelers.     Fultz j  581.54  F98 

Folk-dances  and  singing  games.     2v.     Burchenal qj  793.3  B89 

Folk-songs  and  other  songs  for  children.     Whitehead.  .  .  .qj  784.4  W63 

Folk  stories,  Book  of.     Scudder j  398  S43 

Folk  stories  &  fables.     Tappan j  398  Ti9f 

Folk  tales  from  the  Russian.     Blumenthal j  398  B56 

Folk  tales  of  Flanders.     Bosschere qj  398  B64 

Following  the  flag.     Coffin j  973.7  C66fo 

Following  the  guidon.     Custer j  92  C944cf 

Food  saving  and  sharing.     United  States — Food  administra- 
tion  j    641    U25 

For  childhood  days.     Thompson j  372.4  T38 

For  king  or  country.     Barnes j   B256if 

For  name  and  fame.     Henty j   H456fo 

For  the  honor  of  the  school.     Barbour j  B235f 

For  the  temple.     Henty j   H456f 

Forest  friends.     Madden j  590.4  M23 

Forest  outlaws.     Gilliat j   G4i5f 

Forest  runners.     Altsheler j  A466f 

Forgotten  tales  of  long  ago.    Lucas j  Lo^f 

Fort  Duquesne  and   Fort  Pitt.     Daughters  of  the  American 

Revolution,  Pittsburgh  chapter j  974.886  D28 

Fortunes  of  Nigel.     Scott j  S43ifo 

Forty-four  Turkish  fairy  tales.     Kunos qj  398  K43f 

Forty    lessons    in    gardening.      United    States — Education 

bureau qj   635   U25 

Forum  of  democracy.    Watkins  &  Williams j  940.919  W31 

Founders  of  our  country.     Coe j  973.2  C65 

Four  American  Indians.     Whitney  &  Perry j  970.2  W65 

Four  American  inventors.       Perry j  926   P44 

Four  American  naval  heroes.     Beebe j  923  B37 

Four  American  patriots.      Burton j   923   B95 

Four  American  pioneers.     Perry  &  Beebe j  920  P44 

Four  American  poets.     Cody j  928  C65 

Four  and  twenty  toilers.     Lucas j  821   Lg6f 

Four  famous  American  writers.     Cody j  928  C6sf 

Four  feet,  two  feet  and  no  feet.     Richards j  R4iifo 

Four-footed   friends.     Smith j   S642f 

Four  Gordons.     Brown j    B7852f 

Four  great  Americans.     Baldwin j  923  B19 

Four-handed  folk.     Miller j  599.8  M69 

Four  hundred  animal  stories.     Cochrane j  C645f 

Four  MacNicols.     Black j   B5i4f 

Four  plays   for  children.     Sidgwick j   793.1    S56 

Four  Winds  farm.     Molesworth j   M"789f2 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  413 

Fourth  reader.     Alexander j  S08.8  *\}ji 

Fourth  reader.     Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75! 

Fourth  reader.     Spaulding  &  Bryce j  808. 8  S73 

Fourth  reader.     Van  Sickle  &  Seegmiller j  808.8  V171 

Fra  scuola  e  casa.    Amicis j  853  A511 

Francis  Cludde,  Story  of.     Weyman j   \V586s 

Franconia  stories,     iov.     See  full  entry  under  Abbott. 

Frank  and  Bessie's  forester.     Lounsberry j   Lo3if 

Free-hand  lettering.     Daniels j  744.2  D22 

French   twins.      Perkins j    P434f 

Freshman   Dorn,  pitcher.     Quirk j   Q44f 

Freshman  friends.     Quirk j   Q44fr 

Freshwater  aquarium  and  its  inhabitants.     Eggcling  &    Ehr- 

enberg j    590.7    E35 

Friends  and  helpers.     Eddy j  E264f 

Friends  in  feathers  and  fur.     Johonnot j  590.4  J37f 

Friends  in  the  end.     Dix j  D647f 

Friends  of  the  hunted.     Jewett j   J3i6if 

Friendship  of  nations.     Gulliver j   172  G96 

Frigate's  namesake.     Abbot i   Au<>f 

Frithjof.     Ragozin j   398.2  R15 

Fritz  in  German}'.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymplc j  9 1 4.3   B52 

Fritzi.     Daulton j    D28sf 

From  colony  to  commonwealth.     Tiffany j  973.3  T45 

From  Dartmouth  to  the  Dardanelles i  940.018  Foo 

From  pole  to  pole.     Hedin j  910  H39 

From  school  to  battle-field.     King j  Kjd^fr 

From  the  earth  to  the  moon.     Verne j#\  _'74f 

From  the  Old  World  to  the  New.     Dickson j  973.2  1  )^$ 

Frozen  North.     Horton j  919.8    II 81 

Fur-seal's  tooth.     Munroe j    M9681U 

Furniture   making.     Crawshaw j   (184   C87a 

Further  adventures  of  Nils.     Lagerlof j   Li  52f 

( rabriel  and  the  hour  book.     Stein j   S8lOg 

Gaelic  folk  tales.     O'Sheridan j  398  O204 

Gallegher.      Davis j    D323g 

Games  and  songs  of  American  children.     Newell j  790   X27 

Games  for  everybody.     Hofmann j   793    H68 

<  iames  for  playtime  &  parties.     Wilman qj  71*3  W76 

Games,  seat  work  and  sense  training  exercises.     Holton   & 

Kimball j   372    1 1  7  | 

Garden  behind  the  moon.     Pyle j   P996g 

Garden  book  for  young  people.     Lounsberry i  716  L93 

Garden  of  Eden.     Hodges i  221   H66g 

Gardening  and   farming.     Shaw j  716 

Gardening  for  little  girls.     Foster i  716  F8l 

Garland  for  girls.    Aleut t j  .\j55g 

Garland  of  country  souk-    Gould  &  Sheppard qj  781.4  G73 


4i4  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Gateway  to  romance.     Underdown j  821  Mpig 

Gaunt  gray  wolf.     Wallace j   \V175g 

General  history  for  colleges  and  high  schools.     Myers j  909  M99 

Gentle   heritage.      Crompton j    C89ig 

Gentleman  of  France.     Weyman j   \V586g 

Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  Asia.    Allen j  915  A42 

Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  Europe.     Allen j  609.4  A42 

Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  South  America.  Allen.. j  918  A42 
Geographical  and  industrial  studies;  United  States.    Allen.. j  609.73  A42 

Geographical  reader.     Johonnot j  910  J37 

Geography  primer.     Cornman  &  Gerson j  910  C82a2 

The  same.     [Pittsburg  edition] j  910  C82 

Georgian  bungalow.'    Baylor j    B336g 

Gerda  in  Sweden.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymple j  914-85  B52 

Girls  and  boys.     France qj   F86ig 

Girls'  book  of  famous  queens.     Farmer j  923.1  F24 

Girls'  book  of  the  Red  Cross.    Hyde j  361  H99 

Girls'  Christian  names.     Swan j  929.4  S97 

Girls'  make-at-home  things.     Bailey j  790  Bi5g 

Girls  of  Gardenville.     Rankin j   Ri94g 

Girls  who  became  famous,  Lives  of.     Bolton j  920.7  B61 

Giro  del  raondo  in  ottanta  giorni.    2v.  in  1.     Verne j  853  V27 

Glaucus.     Kingsley j  592  K27 

Glimpses  of  the  world.     Dunton j  910  D92 

Godfrey  Marten,  schoolboy.     Turley j  T857g 

Gods  and  heroes.     Francillon j  292  F86a 

God's  troubadour.     Jewett j  92  F866j 

Gold-Peeking  on  the  Dalton  trail.    Thompson j  T3793g 

Golden  age  of  myth  &  legend.     Bulfinch j  292  B87g 

Golden  fairy  book.     Jokai j  j378go 

Golden  goose.     Tappan j  398  Ti9g 

Golden  goose  book.     Brooke qj  398  B772 

Golden  numbers.     Wiggin  &  Smith j  821.08  W68g 

Golden    spears.     Leamy j    L454g 

Golden  staircase.     Chisholm j  821. oS  C44 

The  same j  821.08  C44a 

Golden  treasury  of  songs  and  poems.     Palgrave j  821.08  Pi8g 

Good  citizenship.     Richman  &  Wallach j  352  R42 

Good  health.    Jewett j  613  J31 

Good  hunting  in  the  West.     Roosevelt j  799  R68 

Good  King  Wenceslas.     Rice j  793. 1  R39 

Good  old  stories.     Smith j   S6462g 

Good  stories  for  great  holidays.     Olcott j  394  O23 

Goody  Two  Shoes,  History  of j  G636h 

Goody  Two  Shoes  picture  book.     Crane qj  C867ig 

Goops.     Burgess qj  817  B89 

Gorilla  hunters.     Ballantyne j   B2i3g 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  415 

Government  of  Pennsylvania  and  the  nation.      High} j  353.9  H53 

Government  of  the  American  people.     Strong  &  Schafer j  35.1,  S92 

Graded  poetry.     8v.  in  7.     Blake  &  Alexander j  821.08  B52 

Grandfather's  chair.     Hawthorne j   974.4  H36 

The  same j  974.4  H.^6g 

Grandfather's   stories.     Johonnot j   J.375g 

Grandmother   dear.     Molesworth j    M/89g2 

Grandmother's  story  [of  Bunker  Hill  battle].  Holmes..  ..j  811  H73g2 
Granny's  wonderful  chair.     Browne j   B8ii2g2 

The  sa»te;  illus.  by  Pyle j  B81  I2g3 

Grasshopper  Green's  garden.     Schwartz j  595.7  S39 

Grasshopper  land.     Morley j  595.72  M91 

Great  American  industries;  manufactures.     Rocheleau j  670  R56 

Great  American  industries;  minerals.     Rocheleau j  553  Rs6g 

Great  American  industries;  products  of  the  soil.    Rocheleau.. j  633  R56a 

Great  American  industries;  transportation.     Rocheleau j  380  R.56a 

Great  artists.     5v.     Keysor j  927   K  23g 

Great  authors  in  their  youth.     Frank j  928  F87 

Great  hall  on  which  we  live.     Gibson j  550  G369 

Great   captain.      Hinkson j    H567g 

Great  cities  of  the  United  States.    Southworth  &  Kramer.  ..j  917.3  S72 

Great   composers.      Butterworth j   927.8   B98 

Great  emergency.      Ewing j    E975g 

Great  explorers  of  the  19th  century.     Verne j  923.9  V-'7g 

Great  locomotive  chase.     Pittenger j  973.7  P67 

Great  names  and  nations.     2v.     Niver j  909  N37 

Great  peacemaker.     Watson j  92  P395W 

Great   scoop.     Seawell j    S442g 

Great  West.     Pratt j   07S    P88 

Greek  Gulliver.     Church j  888  L96 

Greek  heroes.     Niehuhr j  202  N*33g 

Green  fairy  book.     Lang j  398   L23g 

Green  mountain  hoys.     Thompson j   T370 ig 

Grettir  the  outlaw.     Gould j  ( r739g 

Grettir  the  Strong,  Story  of.     French j  F925SI 

Greyfriars  Bobby.     Atkinson j  .\N75g 

Grillo,  Adventures  of.     Candeze j  505.7  C17 

(irit  a-plenty.     Wallace j   \Y175gr 

The  grizzly.     Mills j  ^>n.j   M699 

Guarding  the  border.     Tomlinson j   TS97g 

Guckaus.     Bluthgen (|j  83]    Bs7g 

Gudrun.     Schmidl j  398.27  S3S 

( ruernsey  Lily.    Coolidge j  ( ';S 3g 

Guide  to  biography;  American     nun  of  action.    Stevenson. .  .j  920  >*! 

( ruide  to  good  reading j  028.5  (    15 

Guide  to  the  trees.     Lounsberry j  582  1 .93 

Guide  to  the  wild  flowers.     Lounsberry j  580  L93 


14 


416  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Gulliver's  travels.     Swift j  827  S97t 

The  same;  ed.  by  Colum j  827  S97g5 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rackham j  827  S97g 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rackham j  827  Sg7g2 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rhead j  827  S97g4 

Gunner  aboard  the  "Yankee."     Doubleday j  973-89  D75 

Guns  of  Bull  Run.     Altsheler j  A466g 

Guns  of  Europe.     Altsheler j  A466gun 

Guns  of  Shiloh.    Altsheler j  A466gu 

Guy  Mannering.     Scott j   S43ig 

Gypsy  Breynton.     Ward j  W2i3gy 

Half  a  hundred  hero  tales.     Storr j  292  S88 

Half  a  hundred  stories j   H166 

Half-back.     Barbour j  B235h 

Half-miler.     Dudley j   D872I1 

Hall  of  shells.     Hardy j  594  H26 

Hallowe'en.     Orne j  394  O28 

Hamid,  our  little  Arabian  cousin.     McManus j  915.3  M21 

Hamlet.     Shakespeare j  822.33  S71 

Handicraft  for  boys.     Collins j   680  C69h 

Handicraft  for  handy  boys.     Hall j  79°  Hi6h 

Handwork  in  wood.     Noyes % j   684  N48 

Handy  boy.     Hall j  790  Hi6ha 

Hans  Brinker.     Dodge j   D67ih 

The  same;  illus.  by  Edwards j  D67ih2 

Hanschens  skifahrt.     Beskow qj  833  B46 

Harding  of  St.  Timothy's.     Pier j  P556h 

Harold.      Lytton j    L999h 

Harold  the  dauntless.    Scott j  821  S43M 

Harper's  beginning  electricity.     Shafer j  537  S52 

Harper's  boating  book  for  boys.     Davis j  797  D31 

Harper's  book  for  young  gardeners.       Verrill j   716  V28 

Harper's  book  for  young  naturalists.     Verrill j  579  V28h 

Harper's  book  of  little  plays j  793-1  H28 

Harper's  electricity  book.     Adams j   537-8i   A21 

Harper's  handy-book  for  girls.     Paret j  790  P23 

Harper's  indoor  book.     A,dams j  680  A21 

Harper's  outdoor  book.    Adams j  790  A21 

Harper's  wireless  book.     Verrill j  654.1  V28 

Haunter  of  the  pine  gloom.     Roberts j  R536h 

Hausmiitterchen.     Bonn qj  831   B62I1 

"The  Head  of  Iron."     Patterson j  P312I1 

Health  in  home  and  town.     Brown j  614  B78 

Health,  strength  and  power.     Sargent j  613  S24 

Heart;  a  school-boy's  journal.     Amicis j   A516C 

Heart  of  oak  books.    7v.    Norton j  808.8  N46a 

Heart  of  the  ancient  wood.     Roberts j   R536he 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE   LIST  417 

Heidi.     Spyri j    S772I1? 

The  same;  tr.  by  Edwardes j  S772I13 

The  same;  tr.  by  Stork j  S772I14 

The  same;  tr.  by  White j   S772I12 

Heimatlos.      Spyri j    S772r2 

Heir  of  Redclyffe.     Yonge j    Yj'th< 

Held  fast  for  England.     Henty j   H456h 

Helen's  babies.      Habberton j    H115I1 

Hellenic  tales.      Carpenter j    292   C22 

Helmet  and  spear.     Church j  938  C46I1 

Helps  for  ambitious  boys.     Drysdale j   174  D85 

Helps  for  ambitious  girls.     Drysdale j  396.5  D85 

Henley  on  the  battle  line.     Channon j   C36sh 

Henry   Esmond.     Thackeray j   T333h 

Her  sixteenth  year.     Brown j  B788h 

Herakles  and  other  heroes  of  the  myth.     Burt  &  Ragozin..  ..j  292  B94 

Der  herbst.     Hoist qj  833  H74 

Hereward.      Kingsley j    K"272h 

Hereward,  the  champion  of  England.     Stedman j  S812S 

Hero-myths  &  legends.    Ebbutt j  398.2  E21 

Hero  of  Erie.     Barnes j  B2561I1 

Hero  stories  from  American  history.     Blaisdell  &  Ball j  073  B52I1 

Hero  tales  and  legends  of  the  Serbians.     Petrovic j  398  P46 

Hero  tales  from  American  history.     Lodge  &  Roosevelt j  973  L76 

Heroes.     Kingsley j  292  K27 

Heroes,  Red  book  of.     Lang j  020  L23 

Heroes  and  martyrs  of  invention.     Towle j  926  T65 

Heroes  every  child  should  know.     Mabie  .  .  . .' j  020  Ml  ih 

Heroes  of  Asgard.     Keary j  293  K15I1 

Heroes  of  chivalry  and  romance.     Church j  398.2  C46 

Heroes  of  European  history.     Creighton j   1*40  C87 

Heroes  of  everyday  life.     Coe j  920  I  '  ■  -■ 

Heroes  of  Iceland.     French j  839.6   X ^7 1' 

Heroes  of  modern  Europe.     Birkhead j  920  B48 

Heroes  of  peace.     Gould j    172  *  >j} 

Heroes  of  progress  in  America.     Morris j  920  M91 

Heroes  of  the  army  in  America.     Morris j  923.5  Moi  h 

Heroes  of  the  crusades.     Douglas , j  940..}   I  »; 

Heroes  of  the  middle  ages.     Tappan j  940  Tum 

Heroes  of  the  middle  west.    Catherwood j  977  C28 

Heroes  of  the  navy  in  America.     Morris j  923.5   M'»i 

Heroes  of  the  South  seas.     Banks j  266  B22 

Heroes  of  to-day.      Turkman j   920    I'-'  I 

Heroic  ballads.     Montgomery j   S21.08   MSh 

Heroic  deeds  of  American  sailors.     Blaisdell  &  Ball j  973  ''5-he 

Heroic  verse,  Book  of.     Burrell j  821  08    B94 

Heroines  of  service.      Turkman j  920.7    I  '•'  I 

Heroines  thai  every  child  should  know.    Mabie  &  Stephens . .  j  920.7  M  1 1 


4i8  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Hey  diddle  diddle  picture  book.     Caldecott j  821   Ci2h 

Hiawatha.     Longfellow j   811   L82S 

Hiawatha  primer.      Holbrook j    372.4   H69 

High  deeds  of  Finn.     Rolleston j  398.2  R64 

Hildegarde's  harvest.     Richards j   R4iih 

Hildegarde's    holiday.      Richards j    R4iihi 

Hildegarde's  home.     Richards j    R41  iho 

Hildegarde's  neighbors.     Richards j   R4iihn 

The  hill.     Vachell j  Vush 

Hints  and  helps  for  young  gardeners.     Hemenway j  716.6  H43 

His  little  royal  highness.     Ogden j   Oi72h 

His  majesty's  sloop  Diamond  Rock.     Smith j  S64gh 

Historic  Americans.     Brooks j  920  B7~h 

Historic  Boston.     Hale J  974-46  H15 

Historic  boyhoods.     Holland j   920  H72 

Historic  boys.     Brooks j  9-20  B77 

Historic  girlhoods.     Holland j  920.7   H72 

Historic  girls.     Brooks j  920.7   B77 

Historic   inventions.     Holland j   926   H72 

Historic  pilgrimages  in  New  England.     Bacon j  917.4  B 12I1 

Historic  poems  and  ballads.     Holland j  808.8  H72 

Historic  scenes  in  fiction.     Van  Dyke j  904  V18 

Historical  plays  for  children.    8  nos.     Macdonell j  793.1  M14 

Historical  plays  of  colonial  days.     Tucker  &  Ryan j  793.1  T81 

Historical  tales;  American.     2v.     Morris j  973  M9ia 

Historical  tales;  English.     Morris j  942  Mgia 

Historical  tales;  French.     Morris j  944  M9i5a 

Historical  tales;   German.     Morris j  943   M9ia 

Historical  tales ;  Greek.     Morris j  938  Mgia 

Historical  tales;  Japanese  and  Chinese.     Morris j  952  M915 

Historical  tales;  Roman.     Morris j  937  M91 

Historical  tales;  Russian.     Morris j  947  M91 

Historical  tales;  Scandinavian.     Morris j  948  M91 

Historical  tales;  Spanish.     Morris j  946  M91 

Historical   tales;  Spanish-American.     Morris j  972   M91 

Historical  tales  from  Shakespeare.     Couch j  822.33  H9 

Historie  of  the  life  &  death  of  King  John.     Shakespeare. .  .  .j  822.33  Xi 

The  same;  ed.  by  Darton j  822.33  X12 

History  of  everyday  things  in  England.     2v.     Quennell j  9J4-2  Q25 

History  of  Jack  the  Giant-killer.     Lang j  398  L23h 

History  of  little  Goody  Two  Shoes j  G636h 

History  of  the  robins.     Trimmer j   T744h 

History  of  Whittington.     Lang j  398  L23hi 

Hoistah,  an  Indian  girl.     Barrett j  9/0- 1   B26 

Holiday  entertainments.     Shoemaker j   793  S55 

Holiday  songs.     Poulsson qj   784-8  P86 

Holland  stories.     Smith j  9T4-92  S65 

Holton   primer.     Holton j   372.4   H74 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  419 

Holy-days  and  holidays.     Deems • qrj  808.8  D37 

Home  aquarium.     Smith j  590.7  S64 

Home  hook  of  verse  for  young  folks.     Stevenson j  821.08  S.Kdi 

Home  candy  making.      Rorer j   642    R69 

Home  decoration.      Warner j   747   W23 

Home  fairy  tales.     Mace j  M  151I1 

Home  handy  book.     Collins j  680  C69 

Home  life  around  the  world.     Mi  rick j  910  M73 

Home  life  in  all  lands.     3  v.     Morris j  910  M  |] 

Home-life  in  China.     Bryson j  915.]    B84 

Home  mechanics  for  amateurs.     Hopkins j  680  H78 

Honey-bee.     France j    F86ih 

The  same;  retold  by  Wright j   F801I12 

Hoosier  school-boy.     Eggleston j    E357I10 

Horizontal   bar.     Butterworth j   796.4   BgSh 

Horsemen  of  the  plains.     Altsheler j  A466h 

Hot  weather  dishes.     Rorer j  641  R6gho 

House-boat  on  the  St.  Lawrence.     Tomlinson j   T597I1 

House  in  the  wood.     Grimm j  398  Guihw 

House  of  the  heart.     Mackay j  812  Mi 7b 

House  of  the  seven  gables.     Hawthorne j   H307I1 

House  of  the  Wolf.     Weyman j  Ws86h 

House  that  Jack  built.     Gay  nor j  782.8  G25 

House  that  Jack  built;  pictured  by  Caldecott j  821  Cl2ho 

Household  history  of  the  United  States.     Eggleston j  073  E35I102 

Household  stories.     Grimm j   398  G9ih 

Household  tales.     Grimm j  31)8  G91I1OU 

Housekeeping.      Gilman j    640    G42 

Housekeeping  for  little  girls.     Foster j  640   F81 

How  George  Rogers  Clark  won  the  Northwest.     Thwaites..rj  1)77  T43 

How  girls   can   help  their  country j   369.3    1  [86 

How  it  is  done.     Williams j  620   \\ '7  1 

I  low    it  is  made.     Williams j  670   \V;  | 

How  it  works.     Williams j   604    \\ '7  [a 

How  New  England  was  made.     1 1  umphrey }  974  H92 

How  other  people  live.     Barnard qj  910  B25 

How  our  grandfathers  lived.     Hart j  073   H3I 

How  plants  behave.      <  iray j   581    G8l 

How  plants  grow.     <  iray j  581    G8lh 

How  the  people  rule.     Hoxie j  353  H86 

How  the  Republic  is    governed.     Brooks j  353  B77 

1 1<>\\  the  United  States  became  a  nation.     Fiske .i  073  F    | 

How  the  world  is  clothed.     Carpenter j 

How  the  world  is  fed.    *  larpenter i  630  C22 

How  the  world  is  housed.    I  arpenter j  910  ('22b 

How  to.     Butterworth i  796  1   B98 

How  to  am  use  yourself  ami  others.     Beard j  790  B343 

How   to  attract  birds.      Mr  \t.-<- j    598.2    M  1  1 


420  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

How  to  attract  the  birds.  ,  Doubleday j  598.2  D75h 

How  to  become  a  successful  electrician.     Sloane j  621.307  S63 

How  to  build  a  20-foot  bi-plane  glider.     Morgan j  533.652  M89 

How  to  build  dynamo-electric  machinery.     Trevert j  621.31  T73I12 

How  to  do  beadwork.    White j  689  W63 

How  to  do  it.     Hale j  177  Hi5h 

How  to  dress  a  doll.     Morgan j  646  M89 

How  to  enjoy  pictures.     Head j  759  H38 

How  to  get  strong.     Blaikie j  613.71   B52h 

How  to  know  the  wild  flowers.    Dana j  580  D19 

How  to  make  and  how  to  mend j  680  H84 

How  to  make  baskets.     White j  689  W63h 

How  to  make  common  things.    Bower . .  j  684  B66 

How  to  make  things.    Williams j  604  W74h 

How  to  play  baseball j  796.31   H84 

How  to  produce  children's  plays.     Mackay j  792.07  M17 

How  two  boys  made   their   own    electrical   apparatus.     St. 

John j    537.81    Si4h 

How  we  are  clothed.     Chamberlain j  670  C35 

How  we  are  fed.     Chamberlain j  630  C35 

How  we  are  governed.    Dawes j  353  D32 

How  we  are  sheltered.     Chamberlain j  910  C355 

How  we  travel.     Chamberlain j  380  C35 

Huckleberry  Finn.     Twain j  T8g7a 

Human  side  of  plants.     Dixon j  581.5  D64 

Hundred  anecdotes  of  animals.     Billinghurst j   6483b 

Hundred  best  animals.     Gask j  590.4  G21 

Hundred  fables.     /Esop j  398.91  A25I1 

Hungarian  fairy  book.     Pogany j  398  P74 

Hypatia.      Kingsley j    K272hy 

"I   hear  America   singing."     National    Conference    of   Music 

Supervisors rj   784.8   N15 

Ice  queen.     Ingersoll j   12442! 

Idylls  of  the  king.    Tennyson j  821  T29i 

Iliad.     Homer j  883  H75i 

The  same;  tr.  by  Bryant.     2v.  in  r j  883  H75ib 

Iliad  for  boys  and  girls.     Church j  883  H75icr 

Illustre  dompteur.    Guigou  &  Vimar j  847  G96 

Improving  songs  for  anxious  children.     Carpenter qj  784.8  C22 

In  African  forest  and  jungle.     Du  Chaillu j  916.7  D86i 

In  chimney  corners.     MacManus j  398  M2ii 

In  colonial  times.     Wilkins j  W728i 

In  feudal  times.     Tappan j  9401   T19 

In  field  and  pasture.    Dutton j  910  D95 

In  four  reigns.     Marshall j   M4i6in 

In  freedom's  cause.     Henty j  H456inf 

In   God's  garden.     Steedman j  398.2  S81 

In  God's  out-of-doors.     Quayle j  814  Q21 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  421 

In  Greek  waters.     Henty j   1  [456ing 

In   His' name.     Hale j    H1591 

In  kings'  houses.    Dorr j  D7421 

In  Leisler's  times.     Brooks j  B773i 

1  n   Morgan's  wake.     Verrill j   V282i 

I n  music  land.     Upton j  927.8  U26 

In  oldest  England.     Krapp j  942.01   K41 

In  Peanut  land.     Dean qj   1  >344i 

In  story-land.       Harrison j   H298ii 

In  sunny  Spain.     Bates j  914.6  B31 

In  the  animal  world.     Serl j  372.4  S48 

In  the  apple-country.     Ramee j   R r 7 5 i 

In  the  boyhood  of  Lincoln.     Butterworth j  B984i 

In  the  brave  days  of  old.     Hall j  H  1 74-^i 

In  the  camp  of  the  Creeks.     Pendleton j  P301  in 

In  the  child's  world.     Poulsson j  372.2  P86 

In  the  days  of  Alfred  the  Great.     Tappan j  92  A.392I 

In  the  days  of  giants.     Brown. j  293  B78 

In  the  days  of  Lionheart.     Gandy j  Gi66i 

In  the  days  of  Queen  Elizabeth.     Tappan j  92  E485t 

In  the  days  of  Queen  Victoria.     Tappan j  92  V3i2t 

In  the  days  of  the  guild.     Lamprey j  Li99i 

In  the  days  of  William  the  Conqueror.     Tappan j  92  \V741t 

In  the  High  Valley.     Coolidge j  C783i 

In  the  king's  name.     Fenn j    F362i 

In  the  land  of  cave  and  cliff  dwellers.    Schwatka j  917.2  S41 

In  the  mikado's  service.     Griffis j   ( 18941 

In  the  reign  of  coyote.     Chandler j  398.097  C36 

In  the  Reign  of  terror.     Henty j   1 1 456] 

In  the  Sargasso  sea.     Janvier j  Ji88i 

In  Tudor  times.     Elias j  942.05  E  \7 

In   wild   Africa.     Knox j   916.6   K35 

Independence  day.     Schauffhr j  808. S  S31 

Index  to  poetry  and  recitations.     Granger qrj  808.8  G78a 

Indian  book.     Hopkins j  070.1   H78 

Indian  boyhood.     Eastman j  070.2  E18 

Indian  boys  and  girls.     Haines qj   H1511 

Indian  braves.  Book  of.     Sweetser j  070.2  S07 

Indian  child   life.      Deming j    D42II 

Indian  child  life.     Eastman i  970.]    E18 

I  ndian  days  of  the  long  ago.    Curtis j  970.1  <  '.g 3 

In 'ban   fairy  tales.     Jacobs j  398  JT31 

Indian    folk   tabs.      Xixon j    30N.007    X37 

Indian  heroes  and  great  chieftains.     Eastman j  070.2   El8i 

I  ndian  history  for  young  folks.     I  )rake j  970.I    I  >78a 

Indian   legends.     Washliurnc j   30X007   \\    7 

I  ndian   names,   fael  5  a  11  d  games.      I 'oast j   1170.  1    P73 

Indian  popular  names.    United  States     Ethnology  bureau. .j  970.6 


422  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Indian   primer.      Fox j   970.1    F85 

Indian  scout  talks.     Eastman j  796  E18 

Indian  sketches.     Hulst j  970.3  H91 

Indian    stories j    I242 

Indian  stories.     Newell j   970.1    N27 

Indian  why  stories.     Linderman j  398.097  L71 

Indians  and  pioneers.     Hazard j  973.1   H37a 

Indians  of  to-day.     Grinnell j  970.1  Gg2i2 

Indoor  and  outdoor  handicraft  and  recreation.     Beard j  790  B343i 

Indoor  games  and  socials  for  boys.     Baker j  793  B17 

Indoor  games  for  children.     Crozier j  793  C89 

Industrial  primary  reader.     Grubb  &  Taylor j  372.4  G946 

Industrial  primer.     Grubb  &  Taylor j  372.4  G946 

Industries  of  to-day.     Lane j  604  L23 

Infantry  drill  regulations.     United  States — War  department .  .j  356  U25 

Insect  book.     Howard qj  595-7  H84i 

Insect  folk.     2v.     Morley j  595-7  M91 

Insect  life.     Comstock j  595-7  C73 

Insect  life  in  pond  and  stream.     Duncan j  595.7  D89 

Insect  stories.     Kellogg j  595-7  K16 

Insect  world.     Weed j  595-7  W42i 

Inventions  of  the  great  war.     Bond j  355  B62 

Irish    twins.      Perkins j    P4341 

Iron  star.     True j  571  T77 

Isabel  Carleton's  year.     Ashmun j  A827i 

Island  of  Appledore.    Aldon j  A364i 

Island    refuge.      Otis j    03141 

Island  story.     Marshall j  942  M41 

Italian  child-life.     Ambrosi j  914.5  A49 

Italian  fairy  book.     Macdonell j  398  M14 

Ivanhoe.     Scott j    S43ii2 

The  same;  illus.  by  Greiffenhagen j   S43ii5 

The  same;  illus.  by  Smith j  S43T13 

Ivar  the  viking.     Du  Chaillu j  D864i 

Ivory  king.     Holder j  599.6  H71 

J.  Cole.     Gellibrand j  G286J 

Jack  Alden.     Goss j  G698ja 

Jack  among  the  Indians.     Grinnell j   G925Ja 

Jack  and  Jill.     Alcott j  A355J 

Jack  Archer.     Henty j    H456ja 

Jack  Ballister's  fortunes,  Story  of.     Pyle j   P996S 

Jack  Benson's  log.     Norton j   N463J 

Jack  Hazard  and  his  fortunes.     Trowbridge j  T773J 

Jack  in  the  Rockies.     Grinnell j  G925jac 

Jack  of  all  trades.     Beard j  790  B34J 

Jack  the  Giant-killer.     Lang j  398  L23h 

Jack,  the  young  canoeman.     Grinnell j   G925JC 

Jack,  the  young  cowboy.     Grinnell j   G925J0 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  423 

Jack,  the  young  explorer.     Grinnell j   G925Je 

Jack,  the  young  ranchman.     Grinnell j    G925J 

Jack,  the  young  trapper.     Grinnell j  ( ■ « > — 3 j t 

Jackanapes.      Ewing j    Eg75Ja2 

The  same j    E97SJa3 

/  he   same j    E975Ja  | 

Jacobite   exile.      Henty j    H456J 

Jacqueline  of  the  carrier-pigeons.     Seaman j  S4382J 

Jan   and   Betje.     Hall j   H174J 

Jan  of  the  windmill.     Ewing j    E975J 

Jane   Eyre.     Bronte j    B771J 

Jane,  Joseph  &  John.     Bergengren qj  811  B45 

Japanese   child-stories.     Ayrton j   915-2   A98C 

Japanese  fairy  book.     Ozaki j  398  O36 

Japanese  fairy  tales.    2v.     Williston j  398  W75 

Japanese    twins.      Perkins j    P434J 

Jataka  tales j   398.91   J^i 

Jed.      Goss j    G698J 

Jenny  Wren's  boarding-house.     Otis j  O314J 

Jessie  Willcox  Smith  Mother  Goose j  398.8  M93mj 

Jester  of  St.  Timothy's.     Pier j  P556J 

Jewish  fairy  tales  and  fables.    Naomi,  Aunt j  398  N12 

The  Jews.     Hosmer j  296  H82 

Jim   Crow.     Stock j   793-1   ^86 

Jim   Davis.     Masefield j   M444J 

Jimmyjohns.      Diaz j    D539J 

Jimmy's  cruise  in  the  Pinafore.     Alcott j  A355J1 

Jingle  primer.     Brown  &  Bailey j  372-4  B78 

Joel,  a  boy  of  Galilee.     Johnston j  J3»7J 

Joel   Pepper,  Adventures  of.     Sidney j  8569a 

John  and  Betty's  history  visit.     Williamson j  01  1.2  W'75 

John  and  Betty's  Irish  history  visit.    Williamson j  9I4-IS  W75 

John  and  Betty's  Scotch  history  visit.     Williamson j  914.1    W75 

John   Halifax,   gentleman.      Craik j    C863J 

John  of  the  woods.     Brown j  B78  i.i 

Johnny   Appleseed.      Atkinson j     \S75j 

Johnny    Blossom.      Xwilgmeycr j    Z94J 

Johnny    (row's    garden.      Brooke j    l'77-.i 

Johnny  Crow's  part  v.      Brooke j    B772JO 

Joies  d'enfants.      Mars j  843    M  |i 

Jolly  book  for  boys  and  girls.    Olcotl  &   Pendleton j  O231J 

Jolly  book  of  boxcraft.     Beard j  790  B3  i.u- 

Jolly  fellowship.     Stockton j 

Jolly   good  summer.      Smith j    S655J 

Jolly   good   times.      Smith j    S655J0I 

Jolly  good  times  at   Hackmatack.      Smith j   S655JI1 

Jolly  good    times  at    school.      Smith i    Si 

Jolly  good  times  to-day.    Smith j  Si155.it 


424  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Jo's  boys.     Alcott j   A355J0 

Josefa  in  Spain.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymple j  914.6  B52 

Joyous  travelers.     Lindsay  &  Poulsson j   L722J 

Juan  and  Juanita.     Baylor j  B336J 

Julius  Cassar.     Shakespeare j  822.33  Ti 

The  same;  ed.  by  Darton j  822.33  T12 

Julius  Cse.sar,  Story  of.     Hoffman j  822.33  H23 

Jungle   book.      Kipling j    K278J 

Junior  cup.     French j   F92J 

Just   sixteen.      Coolidge j    C783J 

Just  so  stories.     Kipling j  K27.8JU 

Juvenile  round  table.     3v j  J543 

Kalitan,  our  little  Alaskan  cousin.     Nixon j  917.98  N37 

Kathleen  in  Ireland.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymple j  914.15  B52 

Katrina.     Deland j  D389ik 

Katrinka.     Haskell j   H339k 

Keepers  of  the  trail.     Altsheler j  A466k 

Kenilworth.      Scott j    S43ik 

The  same;  illus.  by  Ford j  S43ik4 

Key  to  the  treasure  house.    Welsh j  808.8  W51 

Kibun  Daizin.     Murai j   M97ik 

Kidnapped.     Stevenson j    S848k 

The  same;  illus.  by  Wyeth j  S848k2 

Kinder  und  hausmarchen.     Grimm j  398  G9ik 

Kindergarten   stories,   Boston   collection  of , j   B644 

King  Arthur  and  his  knights.     Warren j  398.25  W24 

King  Henry  IV.     2v.     Shakespeare j  822.33  Wn 

King  Henry  V.     Shakespeare j  822.33  W3 

King  Henry  the  Fifth,  Story  of.     Hoffman j  822.33  H15 

King  John.     Shakespeare j  822.33  Xi 

The  same;  ed.  by  Darton j  822.33  X12 

King  John,  Story  of.     Hoffman j   822.33  H21 

King  Lear.     Shakespeare j  822.33  T31 

King  Lear,  Story  of.     Hoffman j  822.33  H22 

King  of  Ireland's  son.     Colum j   0727k 

King  of  the  broncos.     Lummis j  Lg77k 

King  of  the  Golden  river.     Ruskin j   R899k 

King  of  the  Mamozekel.     Roberts j   R536k 

King  Richard  II,  Story  of.     Hoffman j  822.33  H14 

King  Richard  III.     Shakespeare j  822.33  X5 

King  Tom  and  the  runaways.     Pendleton j  P39ik 

King's  reeve  and  how  he  supped  with  his  master.     Gilliat j  G4i5k 

King's  story  book.     Gomme j   G597k 

Kipling  stories  and  poems.     Kipling j  K278k 

Kitecraft  and  kite  tournaments.     Miller j  533.6  M69k 

Knight  errant  and  his  doughty  deeds j  A48ik 

Knight  of  Arthur's  court.     Cox j  398.25  G24 

Knight  of  the  white  cross.     Henty j  H450k 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  _M5 

Knightly  legends  of  Wales j  398.25   M  1  I 

Knights  of  the  golden  spur.     Holland j  H  724k 

Knights  of  the  Round  Table.     Frost j  398.25  F96k 

Kdnig  Nobel.     Lohmeyer  &  Flinzer qj  831   L/8k 

Konigskinder.     Chapin j  7X2.3  H92C 

Kopje  garrison.      Fenn j    F362k 

Krag  and  Johnny  Bear.     Seton j  S49Sk 

Kristy's  queer  Christmas.     Miller j    M(H)4_'kri 

Kristy's  rainy  day  picnic.     Miller j   M6Q42kr 

Kristy's  surprise  party.     Miller j   M'lMjjk 

Kwahu,  the  Hopi  Indian  boy.     Moran j  970.1  M88 

Lad  of  Kent.     Harrison ; j  II2984I 

Lads  and  lassies  of  other  days.     Price j  P943I 

Lady  Hollyhock  and  her  friends.    Walker j  790  W17 

Lady  of  the  lake.    Scott j  821  S43I4 

Lafayette,  we  come!     Holland j  92  L144I1 

Lakerim  Athletic  Club.     Hughes j   H897I 

Lalla  Rookh.     Moore j  821    M87 

Lamentations;  ed.  by  Moulton j  223.2  B47  v. 2 

Lance  of  Kanana.     French j   F926I 

Land  of  fair  play.     Parsons j  353  P26 

Land  of  pluck.     Dodge j   D671I 

Land  of  song.    3v.    Shute j  821.08  S56 

Land  of  the  long  night.     Du  Chaillu j  914.7  D86 

Land  we  live  in.     Price j  351. 711   P94 

Landmarks  of  British  history.     Dale j  942  D16 

Lane  to  sleepy  town.    Wilkinson j  811  W729 

Language  of  flowers.     Greenaway j  716.2  G83 

Larger  types  of  American  geography.     McMurry j  917.3  M21 

Larry  Hudson's  ambition.     Otis j  03141a 

Lass  of  the  silver  sword.     Du  Bois j   D859I 

Last  days  of  Pompeii.     Ly tton j  L999I 

Last  fairy  tales.     Laboulaye j  398  Llll 

Last  of  the  barons.     Lytton j   L999la 

Last  of  the  flatboats.     Eggleston j   E3571I 

Last  of  the  Mohicans.     Cooper j  C7S7I 

Last  of  the  Peterkins.     Hale j  11 1  f »i  1 

Last  of  the  plainsmen.     Grey j  799  ( r88 

Lathe-work.      Hasluck j   62 1. 94    H33 

Lay  of  the  last  minstrel.     Scott j  821   S  i.da  t 

Lays  of  ancient  Rome.     Macau  lay j  821    M  11 1  _• 

The    sa»ic i    821     M  1  1 14 

Lays  of  the  Scottish  cavaliers.     Aytoun <lj  821   A98 

Leaders  of  men.     Harper j  923    1 1  28 

Leading  facts  of  American  history.     Montgomery j  973  M861 

League  of  the  signet  ring.     Du  Bois j   1  >859le 

Leatherstocking  tales.     ;\.    See  full  entry  under  Cooper. 

Left  behind.      Otis j    0314b- 


426  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow.     Irving j  817  I28r3 

Legends  of  King  Arthur  and  his  knights.     Knowles j  398.25  K35 

Legends  of  Switzerland.     Guerber j  398.2  Gosle 

Legends  of  the  Alhambra.     Irving j  398.2  I28I 

Legends  of  the  middle  ages.     Guerber j  398.2  G95I 

Legends  of  the  red  children.     Pratt j  398.097  P88 

Legends  of  the  Rhine.     Guerber j  398.2  G95 

Legends  that  every  child  should  know.     Mabie j  398.2  Mil 

Lem.      Brooks j    B7732I 

Lessons  for  beginners  in  reading.     Bass j  372.4  B29 

Lessons  for  junior  citizens.     Hill j  352  H55 

Letters  &  lettering.     Brown j  744-2  B78 

Letters  from  a  cat.     Jackson j  J124I 

The  same j   J  124c 

Letters  from  Brother  Bill.     Towers j  796.32  T65 

Letters  to  his  children.     Roosevelt j  92  R684r 

Life  and  adventures  of  Martin  Chuzzlewit.     2v.     Dickens j  D55im 

Life  and  adventures  of  Nicholas  Nickleby.     2v.     Dickens j  D551112 

Life  and  her  children.     Buckley j  592  B85 

Life  and  times  of  Daniel  Boone.     Ellis j  92  B63ie 

Life  at  the  U.  S.  Naval  Academy.    Earle j  359-071  E17 

Life  histories  of  American  insects.    Weed j  595-7  W42 

Life  in  Asia.     Smith j  915  S65 

Life  in  the  deep  sea.     Duncan j  597  D89 

Life  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth.     Hole qj  755  H71 

Life  of  Robinson  Crusoe.     Defoe j  D378I 

The   same j    D378I3 

The  same;  illus.  by  Pocock j   D378I4 

Life  savers.     Otis j  O314I 

Light  princess.     MacDonald j   M146I 

Lilac  fairy  book.     Lang j  398  L23H 

Lincoln's  birthday.     Schauffler j  92  L715S 

Lion  and  tiger  stories.     Carter j   C237I 

Lion  of  the  North.     Henty j   H456I 

Lionel  of  Orkney.     Francis  W.  Parker  School,  Chicago...  qj  793.1  F86 

Lisbeth   Longf rock.     Aanrud j   Ai  12I 

Listen  to  me  stories.     Aspinwall j  A84ie2 

Listening  child.     Thacher j  821.08  T33 

Literary  readers ;  book  three.     Young  &  Field j  372.4  Y37 

Little  Ann.     Taylor j  821  T25 

Little  Arthur's  history  of  Rome.     Butterworth j  937  B98 

Little  artist.     Mackenzie qj  372-5  M18 

Little  beasts  of  field  &  wood.    Cram j  599  C86 

Little  Billy  'Coon.     Wilkinson j  W729I 

Little  black  Sambo,  Story  of.     Bannerman | j  B228S 

Little  book  of  profitable  tales.     Field j   F457I 

Little  book  of  the  war.     Tappan j  940.91  T  rg 

Little  boy  lost.     Hudson j   H8881 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  427 

Little  brother  &  little  sister.     Grimm qj  yj8  G91I 

Little  brothers  of  the  air.     Miller j  598.2  M69I 

Little  brothers  of  the  West.     Ueming j    D-t_'ilit 

Little  colonial  dame     Sage j   S1291I 

Little  cook  book  for  a  little  girl.     Burrell j  64]    B94 

Little  count  of  Normandy.     Stein j   S819I1 

Little  country  girl.     Coolidge j    C783I 

Little  Daffydowndilly.      Hawthorne j    H367I 

Little   daughter  of  the    Revolution.   Sage j    S1291H 

Little  Dorrit.     2V.     Dickens j   D551I 

Little    Dauphin.      Hoffmann j    92    L027I1 

Little  dramas  for  primary  grades.     Skinner  &  Lawrence..  ..j  372.4  S62 

Little  duke.     Yonge j    Y29H 

Little  earl.     Ramee j  R175I 

Little  flowers  of  St.  Francis  of  Assisi j  92  F866 

Little-folk  dialogue  reader.     Villee j   372.4    Y  ;.; 

Little-folk  lyrics.     Sherman j  811   S55 

Little  folks'  handy  book.     Beard j  790  B343I 

Little  folks  in  feathers  and  fur.     Miller j  590.4  M6g 

Little  folks  of  many  lands.     Chance j  910  C36 

I  .ittle  gardens  for  boys  and  girls.     Higgins j  716  H53 

Little  Girl  Blue.     Gates j   ( .233I 

Little  girl  of  long  ago.     White j  W632I 

Little  girl's  knitting  &  crochet  book.     Klickmann j  (14' 1  K32 

Little  girl's  sewing  book.     Klickmann j  646  K32I 

Little  Golden  Hood.     Heller  &  Bates .i  398  lit-1 

Little  Goody  Two  Shoes,  History  of j  ( i<>  V>h 

Little  grey  house.     Taggart j  T134U 

Little  house  in  the  woods.     Hunt j    H937I 

Little  Indian  folk.     Deming j    D421I 

Little  Jane  and  me.     Blatchford j   B5412S 

Little  Jarvis.     Seawell j  S442I 

Little  journey  though  the  great  Southwest.     Koch j  917*9  K36 

Little  journey  to  China  and  Japan.     George j  015.1    G31 

Little  journey  to  Cuba.    George j  917.29]  ( \$\ 

Little  journey  to  England  and  Wales.     George i  914.2  G31 

Little  journey  to  France  and  Switzerland.     George j  01  |.  |   G3] 

Little  journey  to  Germany.     George i  9*4-3  ( >3' 

Little  journey  to  Mexico  and  Central  America.     George... j  017.2  (i.si.i 

Little  journey  to  northern  wilds.      Koch j  917.19    K36 

Little  journey  to  Norway  and  Sweden.      Randall j  914.81    R18 

Little  journey  to  our  Western  wonderland.     Koch j  917-94   'v^> 

Little  journey  to  Porto  Rico.    George j  917.29]  G31 

Little  journey  to  some   strange    places   and   peoples   in    OUI 

southwestern   land.     James j  91  7.89  Jl6 

Little  journey  to  South    Africa.     White  &   Smith j  oio.S  W63I 

Little  journeys   to   Alaska   and    Canada.      George j   017.0S   G3I 


428  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Little   journeys   to   Balkans,    European   Turkey   and    Greece. 

George j    914-96    G31 

Little  journeys  to  Hawaii  and  the  Philippine  islands.  George. .j  919.6  G31 
Little  journeys  to  Holland,  Belgium  and  Denmark.     George  & 

Dean j   9M-92   G31 

Little  journeys  to   Italy,  Spain   and   Portugal.     Whitcomb   & 

George j  914-5  W62 

Little  journeys  to  Russia  and  Austria-Hungary.  George.  ..j  914.7  G31 
Little  journeys   to   Scotland  and   Ireland.     Whitcomb   & 

George j  9*4- l  W62 

Little  lame  prince.     Craik j   C863H 

Little  Light.     Gaines j  G139I 

Little  Lord  Fauntleroy.     Burnett j   B934I 

Little  maid  of  Massachusetts  colony.     Curtis j  C933H 

Little  maid  of  Narragansett  bay.     Curtis j  C933I1T1 

Little  maid  of  Province  town.     Curtis j  C933a 

Little   match   man.      Barzini j    B286I 

Little  men.     Alcott j   A355I 

"Little  men"  play.     Gould j  793-1  G73 

Little   minister.      Barrie j    B266I 

Little  Miss  Phoebe  Gay.     Brown j   B788I 

Little  Mother  Goose j  398.8  M93I 

Little  Mr  Thimblef inger.     Harris j  H293I 

Little  Mr  Thimblefinger  stories.     Harris j  H293I2 

Little  nature   studies.     2v.     Burroughs j   591.5   B94I 

Little  people  and  their  homes.     Hook j  595.7  H77 

Little  people  of  Asia.     Miller j  915  M69 

Little  people's  dialogues.     Denton j  793.1  D43 

Little  plays  from  American  history.     Walker j  793.1  W16 

Little  Pussy  Willow.     Stowe j   S892I 

Little  queen  of  hearts.     Ogden j   O172I 

Little  red  people.     Deming j   D421H 

Little  Red  Riding-hood.     Lang j  398  L23I 

Little   runaways.      Curtis j    C933I 

Little   Saint   Elizabeth.      Burnett j    B934S2 

Little  shepherd  of  Provence.     Stein j  S819I 

Little  Smoke.     Stoddard j  S869H 

Little  songs  of  long  ago.     Moffat '. j  784.8  M76I 

Little  stories  about  little  animals.     Holton j   H748I 

Little  stories  of  France.     Dutton j  944  D95 

Little  stories  of  Germany.     Dutton j  943   D95 

Little  Sunshine's  holiday.     Craik j   C863lit 

Little  wanderers.     Morley j   581.54  M91 

Little  wars.     Wells j  793.9  W49I 

Little  women.     Alcott j    A355li 

Littlest  one  of  the  Browns.     Swett j  S975H 

Lively  city  o'  Ligg.     Burgess j  B8972I 

Lives  of  girls  who  became  famous.     Bolton j  920.7  B61 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  429 

Lives  of  poor  boys  who  became  famous.     Bolton j  920  B61 

Lives  of  the  hunted.     Seton j    S495H 

Lives  of  the  presidents  of  the  United  States.     Ellis j  '^3.1   E53a2 

Lives  of  the  presidents  of  the  United  States.     Pierson j  923.]    P57I 

Living  animals  of  the  world.    2v.     Cornish c|j  .vjo  C82 

Lob  Lie-by-the-fire.     Ewing j  E975I0 

The  same j    E975I02 

The  same j  E975I05 

Lobo,  Rag  and  Vixen.     Seton j  S495I 

Lobster  &  his  relations.     Duncan j   595.3   D89 

Lobster   catchers.      Otis j    O314I0 

Log  of  a  timber  cruiser.     Lawson j  634.9   L42 

Logan  the  Mingo.     Ellis j   E531I 

Lone  Bull's  mistake.     Schultz j   S3872I 

Lonesomest  doll.     Brown j    B784I 

Long   journey.      Singmaster j    S617I 

Long  night.     Weyman j   W586I 

Long  trail.     Garland j   G186I 

Longnose  the  dwarf.     Hauf f j   H35 1  f 

Lord  of  the  air.     Roberts j   R536I 

Lords  of  the  world.     Church j   C468I 

Lorna  Doone.      Blackmore j   B510I 

Lost  endeavour.     Masefield j   M444I 

Lost  gold  of  the  Montezumas.     Stoddard j  S8(><;1 

Lost  in  the  jungle.     Du  Chaillu j  916.7  D80I 

Lost   Indian  magic.     Moon j    M875I 

Lost  Prince  Almon.     Pendleton j    1  \\< > 1 1 

Lost  word.     Van  Dyke j  V187I 

Love-songs  of  childhood.     Field j  811    F45] 

Lovey  Mary.     Rice j    R394I 

Love's  labour's  lost.    Shakespeare j  822.33  O" 

Loyal  blue  and  royal  scarlet.     Taggart j  T  [34I 

Loyal  little  red-coat.     Ogden j   O172I0 

Loyal  traitor.     Barnes j    B2561I 

Lucita.      Gaines j    G139I 

Luck  of  the  Dudley  Grahams.     Haines j  H  151I 

Lucky  sixpence.     Knipe j   K3462I 

Lulu's  library.     3v.      Alcott j    A355I11 

Lyra  heroica.    Henley j  821.08  1 1  1 1 

Mabinogion j    398.25    M  1  [g 

Macbeth.     Shakespeare j  822.33  1  5  ' 

Macbeth,  Story  of.     1 1  off  man j   822.33    '  ,JI 

Madame  How  and  Lady  Why.     Kingsley j  551    K27 

Maestrina  degli  operai.     Ainicis j  853  A.51  m 

Maggie  McLanehan.     Zollinger j  /-77U] 

Magic  forest.     White i   \\'<\\<>\u 

Magic  nuts.     Molesworth j   M;^mi;i 

Magic  of  science.     Collins j  5.V-7  C69 


430  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Magic  pictures  of  the  long  ago.     Chandler j  904  C36 

Magical  experiments.     Good j  133  G62m 

Magna  charta  stories.     Gilman j  904  G42 

Maid  at  King  Alfred's  court.     Madison j  M236m 

Maid  of  old  Manhattan.     Knipe j   K3462111 

Maitland,  major  and  minor.     Turley j   T8571T1 

Making  of  Pennsylvania.     Fisher rj  974.8  F53 

Making  of  the  American  nation.     Gilman j  973  G42 

Making  of  the  great  West.     Drake j  978  D78 

Making  of  the  Ohio  valley  states.     Drake j  977  D78 

Making  tin  can  toys.     Thatcher j  680  T33 

Malleville.     Abbott j    Ai32m2 

Malvern.      Deland j    03891m 

Man  who.  married  the  moon.     Lummis j  398.097  L97 

Man  with  the  iron  hand.     Parish j  973.2  P23 

Man  without  a  country.    Hale j  H1591112 

Manual  training  for  common  schools.     Allen  &  Cotton j  684  A42 

Manual  training  toys.     Moore j  684  M87 

Manuel  in  Mexico.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymple j  917-2  B52 

Maori  and  settler.     Henty j  H456ma 

Marble  faun.     Hawthorne j  H367m 

March  on  London.     Henty j  H4561TL 

Marching  against  the  Iroquois.     Tomlinson j  T597m 

Margaret  Montfort.     Richards j    R4iimar 

Marigold  garden.     Greenaway qj  821  G83 

Marmion.     Scott j  821   S43m2 

Martin  Chuzzlewit.     2v.     Dickens j   D55im 

Martin   Hyde.     Masefield j   M444m 

Marvel  book  of  American  ships.     Jackson  &  Evans qj  359  T12 

Mary  Bell.     Abbott j   Ai32mar 

Mary  Erskine.     Abbott j   Ai32ma2 

Mary's  garden  and  how  it  grew.     Duncan j  716  D89 

Mary's  meadow.     Ewing j   E975ma3 

Masque  of  days.     Crane qj  C867im 

Master  Bartlemy.     Crompton j  C89im 

Master  Humphrey's  clock.     Dickens j   Dssich 

Master  of  the  Strong  Hearts.     Brooks j   B7731TI 

Master  Skylark.     Bennett j   6439m 

Master  Skylark;  dramatization.     Burrill j  812  B94 

Master  Will  of  Stratford.     Garnett j  812  G19 

Masterman   Ready.     Marryat j    M4i2ma 

Masters  of  music.     Chapin j  927.8  C36 

Matka  and  Kotik.     Jordan j   J4281T1 

Mechanical  inventions  of  to-day.     Corbin j  609  C81 

Mechanics  and  some  of  its  mysteries.     Johnson j  531  J36 

Mechanics  indoors  and  out.     Hodgson j  620  H66 

Medal  of  honor  man.     Norton j   N463m 

Melchior's  dream.     Ewing j  E975m3 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  43« 

Meleagris  Gallopavo.     Ramee j   Ri75c 

Memoires  d'un  ane.     Segur j  843  S45me 

Memoirs  of  a  white  elephant.     Gautier j   ( \245m 

Memorial  day.     Schauffler j   808.8  S3 1  m 

Men  of  business.     Stoddard j  923.8  S86 

Men  of  iron.     Pyle j  P996111 

Men  who  have  risen.     Mabie j  920  M  1 1 

Merchant  of  Venice.     Shakespeare j  822.33  P31 

The  same;  illus.  by  Linton qj  822.33  P32 

Merchant  of  Venice,  Story  of  the.     Hoffman j  822.33  H16 

Merchant  ships.     Braine qj  604  B68 

Merchant  vessel.     Nordhoff j  910.4  N43m 

Merlo  bianco.     Barrili qj  853  B26 

Merrie  England.     Greenwood j  914.2  G85 

Merry  adventures  of  Robin  Hood.     Pyle j  398.22  P99 

The  merry  maker.     Harris j   H293me 

Merrylips.      Dix j    D6471TI 

The  Merryweathers.     Richards j   R4iime 

Middle  five.     La  Flesche j   Li47m 

Midshipman    Farragut.      Barnes j    B2561111 

Midshipman   in   the    Pacific.      Brady j    B686m 

Midshipman    Jack.      Norton j    N463mi 

Midshipman    Paulding.      Seawell j    S442111 

Midshipmen's    mess.      Seawell j    S44-'t 

Midsummer  night's  dream.     Shakespeare j  822.33  P72 

The  same',  illus.  by  Perkins qj  822.33  P73 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rackham j  822.33  ?75 

The  same;  illus.  by  Robinson qj  822.33  P74 

Midsummer  night's  dream,  Story  of  a.     Hoffman j  822.33  H17 

Mighty  animals.     Mix j  566  M75 

Might}-  deep.     Giberne j  55 1. 46  ( r36r 

Miles   Wallingford.      Cooper j    Qy%7ra\ 

Mill  on  the  Floss.     Eliot j  E476m 

The   Millers  and  their  new  home.     Pierson j    I'57imi 

The   Millers  at  Pen  en  ill.     Pierson j   P571111 

Minister's  watermelons.     Stowe j   SS92I 

M  ischief's  Thanksgiving.     Coolidge j   C7N3111 

Miss  Mouse  and  her  boys.     Molesworth j   M 789ml 

Miss  Muffet's  Christmas  party.     Crothers j  C895m 

Missionary  explorers  among  the   American    Indians.      Hum- 
phreys   j  922  H92 

Model  aeroplanes  and  their  engines.     Cavanagh j  533.652  C29 

Model  engines  and  small   boats.      Hopkins j  699.1    1 1  ~ -^ 

Modern  conjurer  ami  drawing-room  entertainer.     Neil j  133  N21 

Modern  Europe.     Coe j  914  C65 

Modern  stories.     Tappan j  T 102111 

Modern  triumphs.    Tappan j  604  T19 

Modern   vikings.     Boyesen j    B669mo 


432  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Monastery.     Scott j  S43irn 

Moni  the  goat  boy.     Spyri j  S7721T1 

Monitor  and  the  Merrimac.    Worden j  9737  W89 

Monkey  that  would  not  kill.     Drummond j  D844m 

Monster-hunters.     Rolt-Wheeler j    R6561T1 

Montezuma  and  the  conquest  of  Mexico.     Seelye  &  Eggles- 

ton j  972  S45 

Month  by  month  books.    3v.    Willis  &  Farmer j  372  W75 

Mooswa.     Fraser j    F888m 

Mopsa  the  fairy.     Ingelow j    1244m 

Moral  pirates.    Alden j  A359111 

Moral  tales  for  young  people.     Edgeworth j  E2841T1 

More  about  live  dolls.     Gates j  G2331T1 

More  baskets,  and  how  to  make  them.     White j  689  W63m 

More  bunny  stories.     Jewett j  J3i6im 

More  Celtic  fairy  tales.    Jacobs j  398  Ji3m 

More  English  fairy  tales.    Jacobs j  398  Ji3mo 

More  good  times  at  Hackmatack.    Smith j  S655m 

More  goops.     Burgess qj  817  B891T1 

More  little  beasts  of  field  and  wood.    Cram j  599  C86m 

More  mother  stories.     Lindsay j  372.2  L72U1 

More  nonsense.     Lear j  827  L45b2 

More  tales  from  the  Arabian  nights j  398  A65aol 

More  than  conquerors.     Gilbert j  920  G38 

Morgan's  men.     True j  T776m 

Mosses  from  an  old  manse.     Hawthorne j  H367mo 

Moth  book.     Holland qj  595.78  H72m 

Mother  Goose;  illus.  by  Greenaway j  398.8  M93mg 

Mother  Goose,  Tales  of.     Perrault j  398  P43t 

Mother  Goose  in  silhouettes j  398.8  M93bu 

Mother  Goose  primer.    Wiley j  372.4  W71 

Mother  Goose  village,  Stories  of.     Bigham j  B478S 

Mother  Goose's  melodies j  398.8  M93 

Mother  Goose's  nursery  rhymes j  784.8  M93 

Mother  Hubbard,  her  picture  book.     Crane qj  398  C867m 

Mother  Nature's  children.     Gould j  570.4  G73 

Mother  stories.     Lindsay j  372.2  L72 

Mother  West  Wind's  animal  friends.     Burgess j  B897mo 

Mother  West  Wind's  neighbors.     Burgess j  B897m 

Mother's  birthday  review.     Ewing j  821   E97m 

Moths  and  butterflies.     Dickerson j  595.78  D55 

Motor  boating  for  boys.     Davis j  629.1232  D31 

Moufflou.     Ramee j   Ri75m 

Mountain  divide.     Spearman j  S74im 

Mr  Bodley  abroad.     Scudder j  914  S43 

Mr  Rabbit  at  home.     Harris j  H293m 

Mr  Stubbs's  brother.     Otis j  0314m 

Mr  Wind  and  Madam  Rain.     Musset j  M985m 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  433 

Mrs  Leeks  and  Mrs  Aleshine.     Stockton j  S866cas 

Mrs   Leicester's  school.     Lamb j    Ll79tn 

Mrs  Overtheway's  remembrances.     Ewing j   Ey75mr 

Mrs  Tiggy-winkle,  Tale  of.     Potter j    l'856te 

Mrs  Wiggs  of  the  Cabbage  Patch.     Rice j  R.^im 

Muffin  shop.     Garnett qj   Gioim 

Munchausen,   Baron.      Raspe j    R2i5t 

Music   for  Danish  folk  dances.     Copenhagen,   Foreningen   til 

Folkedansens   Fremme qj    793-3   C79 

My  air-ships.     Santos-Dumont j   533-6  S23 

My  Apingi  kingdom.     Du  Chaillu j  916.7  D86m 

My  boys.     Alcott j  A355my 

My  days  and  nights  on  the  battle-field.     Coffin j  973.7  C66m 

My  dogs  in  the  Northland.     Young j  636.7  Y37 

My  girls.     Alcott j   A355m 

My  Kalulu.     Stanley j   S787m 

My  lady  Rotha.     Weyman j  \V586my 

My  Saturday  bird  class.     Miller j  598.2  M694 

Mysterious  island.     Verne j   V274m 

The  same;  illus.  by  Wyeth j  V2741112 

Mystery  of  Edwin  Drood.     Dickens j  D55ich 

Mystery  tales.     Smith j  86462m 

Myths  and  legends.     Shahan j  292  S5-'ii 

Myths  from  many  lands.     Tappan j  291  T19 

Myths  of  Greece  and  Rome.     Guerber j  292  G95 

Myths  of  northern  lands.     Guerber j  293  G95 

Myths  of  the  red  children.     Wilson j  398.097  W76 

Nan  at  Camp  Chicopee.     Hamlin j   H22111 

Nan   in  the   city.     Hamlin j   H22ina 

Nancy   Rutledge.     Pyle j   P996111 

Nannie's  happy  childhood.      Field j   F45611 

Nan's  Chicopee  children.     Hamlin j   H22inan 

Nathalie's  chum.     Ray j  R~'  I  In 

Nation  and  state.     Philips j  353  P49 

National    parks    portfolio.      United    States — Interior    depart- 
ment  j  711   U25 

National,  patriotic  and  typical  airs  of  all  lands.     Sousa.  .  ..qj  784.4  S72 

Natural  advanced  geography.     Redway  &    llimnan qj  910   I\J7;i 

Natural  elementary  geography.      Redway  &   Hinnian qj  910   R2711 

Natural  history.     Miles j   590  M68 

Nature  biographies.     Weed i   595*7   W  l-'" 

Nature  in  verse.     Lovejoy j  821.08  1  <>\- 

Nature  myths  and  stories.     ( '<><>ke j  398  177a 

Nature  myths  of  many  lands.     Farmer j  398  F24 

Nature-study.      Comstock rj   5707   17? 

Nature's  garden.     Doubleday qj  580   I  >75 

Naval  history  of  the  United  States.     Abbot j  973   A  1  2H 

Navy  blue.     Allen j   A43211 


434  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Neal  the  miller.    Otis j  031411 

Needlecraft.     Archer j   646  A67 

Nehe.     Siviter j   S62411 

Neighbors  with  claws  and  hoofs.     Johonnot j  590-4  J37" 

Neighbors  with  wings  and  fins.    Johonnot j  598.2  J37 

Nelly's  silver  mine.     Jackson j  Ji24n 

Nesthakchen.     Bonn qj  831  B62 

New  baby  world.     Dodge qj   D67111 

New  century  speaker.     Frink j  808.8  F95 

New  educational  music  course.     McLaughlin  &  Gilchrist,  .qj  784.8  M19 

New  geographies.     2v.     Tarr  &  McMurry j  910  T2in 

New  international  dictionary.     Webster qrj  423  \V38i2 

New  international  encyclopaedia.    20v qrj  031  N26a 

Courses  of  reading  and  study qrj  031  N26C 

New   international   year   book qrj    031    N2611 

New  library  of  poetry  and   song.     Bryant qrj   821.08   B84f 

New  Mexico  David.     Lummis j   L977n 

New   nation.      Barstow j   973    B27 

New  Robinson   Crusoe.     Alden j   A359n 

New  standard  dictionary qrj  423  S78 

New  World  fairy  book.     Kennedy j   Ki83n 

New-year's   bargain.      Coolidge j    C783ne 

News  from  the  birds.     Keyser j  598.2  K23 

The   Nibelungs j   398.27  N3in 

Nicholas  Nickleby.     2v.     Dickens j   D55in2 

Nights  with  Uncle  Remus.     Harris j  398  H2911 

Nils,  Further  adventures  of.     Lagerlof j  Li52f 

Nils,   Wonderful   adventures   of.      Lagerlof j    L152W 

The  same;  illus.  by  Frye j  L152W2 

Nine   little  goslings.     Coolidge j    C783ni 

Nine  worlds.     Litchfield j  293   L73 

No  heroes.     Howard j  H844n 

Nonsense  ABC's.     Lear j  827  L45nos 

Nonsense  books.    4v.  in  1.     Lear j  827  L45 

Nonsense  songs.     Lear j  827  L45no2 

Norse   mythology.      Mortensen j   293   M92 

Norse  stories.     Mabie j  293  Mil 

Norseland  tales.     Boyesen j   B66911 

North  Cornwall  fairies  and  legends.    Tregarthen j  398  T715 

Northmen  in  Britain.     Hull j  942.01  H91 

Nos  cheris.     Mars j  843  M4in 

Nos  enfants.     France qj  843  F86 

Not  quite  eighteen.     Coolidge j  C783n 

Novelle.     Amicis j   853  Asm 

Number  stories  of  long  ago.     Smith j  511.2  S64 

Niirnberg  stove.     Ramee j   Ri75n 

The  same j   Ri75d4 

Nurse   Heatherdale's   story.      Molesworth j    M789n2 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  435 

Nursery   rhyme    book.      Lang j    398.8    L23 

Nursery  rhymes,  Book  of j  398.8  M<ul> 

Nursery  song  book.     Moore j   784.8   M876 

Nursie's  little  rhyme  book j  398.8  N52 

O-Heart-San.     Haskell j    H3390 

Oak-tree  fairy  book.     Johnson j  398  J35 

Oakleigh.      Deland j    D38910 

Occupations  for  little  fingers.     Sage  &  Cooley j  372  S12 

Odysseus,  the  hero  of  Ithaca.     Burt  &  Ragozin j  883  H75ob 

Odyssey.     Homer j  883  H75obu 

The  same;  tr.  by  Bryant.    2v.  in  1 j  883  H75oby 

The  same;  tr.  by  Palmer j  883  H750P 

The  same;  tr.  by  Pease j  883  H750PS 

Odyssey  for  boys  and  girls.     Church j  883  H750CU 

Official  base  ball  guide j  796.31   S73 

Official  basket  ball  rules.     Hepbron j  796.34  H45 

Official  handbook  for  boys.     Boy  Scouts  of  America..  .  .j  369.2  B66a2 

Old  ballads  in  prose.     Tappan j  398.21   T19 

Old  Christmas.     Irving j  817  I280 

Old  curiosity  shop.     2v.     Dickens j   D5510I 

The  same;  illus.  by  Reynolds qj   D5510I3 

Old  Dutch  nursery  rhymes.     Elkin j  7848  E48 

Old  English  ballads.     Long j  821.08  L82 

Old  English  ballads,  Book  of.     Mabie j  821.08  Mn 

Old  English  games  and  physical  exercises.     Kirk j  793  k_'X 

Old-English  history.     Freeman j  942.01    F91 

Old-fashioned  fairy  tales.     Evving j   E9750 

Old-fashioned   girl.      Alcott j   A3550 

Old  fashioned  stories  &  poems.     Tappan j  T1920 

Old  fashioned  tales.     Lucas j   L9690 

Old-fashioned  Thanksgiving.      Alcott j   A3550I 

Old  Fort  Loudon,  Story  of.     Craddock j   C858SI 

Old  Glory.     Ross j  929. <>   R73 

Old   Greek  folk  stories.     Peabody j   292    1*33 

Old  Greek  stories.     Baldwin i  292  B19 

Old   Indian   legends.     Zitkala-Sa j    398.097   Z68 

Old  King  Cole.     Gibbon j  398  ( >M< 

Old  Mortality.     Scott j   S4310 

Old  Mother  Goose  nursery  rhymes j  398.8  M030I1 

Old  Mother  West   Wind.      Burgess j    B897O 

Old  Norse  stories.     B radish j   j>>,^   B68 

Old  nursery  rhymes j  398.8   M930I 

Old,  old  story-book;  comp.  by  Tappan j  221    I'.  ir«> 

Old  Peter's  Russian  tales.     Ransome i  398  R19 

Old  songs  and   rounds.      Widor j   784.8   W670 

Old  swimmin'-hole.     Riley j  811    R450I 

Old  testament  stories;  ed.  by  Chisholm j  221    B47 

Old  time    I  lawaiians.      Lawrence j   996  o    I    \2 


436  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Old  World  hero  stories.     Tappan j  909  T190 

Old  World  wonder  stories.     O'Shea j  398  O29 

Oliver  Twist.     Dickens j   Dssia 

On  board  a  U.  S.  battleship.     Codd j  359  C65 

On  guard !     True j   T7760 

On  parole.     Siviter j  S6240 

On  Plymouth  rock.     Drake j  974.4  D78 

On  snow-shoes  to  the  barren  grounds.     Whitney .j  917.12  W65 

On  the  battle  front  of  engineering.     Bond j  620  B620 

On  the  frontier  with  St.  Clair.    Wood j  W8520 

On  the  Irrawaddy.     Henty j  H456011 

On  the  old  frontier.     Stoddard j  S8690 

On  the  plains  with  Custer.    Sabin j  S1160 

On  the  plantation.     Harris j  H2930 

On  the  school  team.     Earl j  E17320 

On  the  trail.     Beard j  796.5  B343 

On  the  trail  of  Grant  and  Lee.     Hill j  92  G789I1 

On  the  warpath.     Schultz j  970.1  S380 

Once  upon  a  time.     Wilkins j  811  W72 

Once  upon  a  time  tales.     Stewart j  S8510 

One-footed  fairy.     Brown j   B7830 

One  for  Wod  and  one  for  Lok.     Cartwright j  293  C24 

One  hundred  famous  Americans.     Smith j  920  S649 

One  of  the  28th.     Henty j  H4560 

One  thousand  poems  for  children.     Ingpen j  821.08  I24 

Only  true  Mother  Goose  melodies j  398.8  M930 

Open  sesame.    3v.     Bellamy  &  Goodwin j  808.8  B41 

Orcutt  girls.     Vaile j  V1370 

Oregon  trail.     Parkman j   917.8  P24 

Original  fables.     La  Fontaine j  398.91  L14 

"Original  poems."     Taylor j  821  T250 

Oriole  stories  for  beginners.     Lane j  372.4  L23 

Osceola.     Ellis j    E5310 

Other  girls.     Whitney j  W65iot 

Other  wise  man,  Story  of  the.     Van  Dyke j  V187S 

Otto  of  the  silver  hand.     Pyle j  P9960 

Ottoman  wonder  tales.    Garnett j  398  G19 

Our  American  neighbors.     Coe j  917  C65 

Our  birds  and  their  nestlings.     Walker j  598.2  W17 

Our  bodies  and  how  we  live.     Blaisdell j  613  B5202 

Our  children.     France qj   F8610 

Our  children's  songs j  821.08  O32 

Our  country:     East j  917.3  O32 

Our  country:     West j  917.9  O32 

Our  country  in  poem  and  prose.     Persons j  808.8  P44 

Our  country's  flag.     Holden j  929.9  H71 

Our  country's  story.     Tappan j  973  T19 

Our  early  wild  flowers.     Keeler j  580  K15 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  437 

Our  feathered  friends.     Grinnell. j   598.2  G92 

Our  flag  in  verse  and  prose.     Schauffler j  808.8  S3if 

Our  government.     Macy j  342.7  M  22 

Our  holidays j  394  O32 

Our  humble  helpers.     Fabre j  636  Fn 

Our  industries;  fabrics.     Winship j  677  W78 

Our  insect  friends  and  foes.     Cragin j  595.7  C85 

Our  island  saints.     Steedman j  398.2  S810 

Our  little  Alaskan  cousin.     Nixon 917-98   -\'37 

Our  little  Arabian  cousin.     McManus j  915.3  M21 

Our  little  Armenian  cousin.     Wade j  915.6   W  1  I 

Our  little  Austrian  cousin.     Mendel j  914. 3(1  M'-i 

Our  little  Brazilian  cousin.     Nixon j  918. 1  N37 

Our  little  brown  cousin.     Wade j  919.11  Wli 

Our  little  Bulgarian  cousin.     Winlow j  914.97  W78 

Our  little  Chinese  cousin.     Headland j  915. 1  H380 

Our  little  Cuban  cousin.     Wade j  917.291  Wi  1 

Our  little  Danish  cousin.     Innes j  914.89  I24 

Our  little  Dutch  cousin.     McManus j  914.92  M21 

Our  little  Finnish  cousin.     Winlow j  914.71   W78 

Our  little  German  cousin.     Wade j  914.3  Wi  1 

Our  little  Hindu  cousin.     McManus j  915.4  M21 

Our  little  Italian  cousin.     Wade j  914.5  Wl  1 

Our  little  Malayan  cousin.     Wade j  919. 11  Wli 

Our  little  Panama  cousin.     Pike j  918.6  P58 

Our  little  Philippine  cousin.     Wade j  919.14  W  1  1 

Our  little  Servian  cousin.     Winlow j  914.97  W780 

Our  little  Siamese  cousin.     Wade j  915.9  Wi  1 

Our  little  Swedish  cousin.     Coburn j  914.85  C63 

Our  mutual  friend.     2v.     Dickens j   D5510 

Our  nation  in  the  building.     Xicolay : j  973  N320 

Our  nation's  flag.     Smith j  929.9  S65 

Our  native  trees.     Kecler j  582  K15 

Our  navy  in  time  of  war.    Matthews j  973.7  M47 

Our  old  nursery  rhymes.     Moffat j  784.8  M76 

Our  own  country.     Smith j  917-3  S65 

Our  winter  birds.     Chapman j  598.2  (  1360 

Our  young  folks'  history  of  the  Roman  empire.     Walsh j  937  W  l8 

Our  young  folks'  Josephus.     Josephus j  033  J  4  i<> 

Our  young  folks'  Plutarch.     Plutarch j  920   P720 

Out-of-door  book.    Tappan j  590. 1    I ' i'» 

Out  to  old  Aunt   Mary's.     Riley j  8ll    R  I?" 

Outdoor  handy  book.     Beard j  796  B3  (<i 

Outdoor  primer.     ( rrover j  37-'  |   <  rO.  [OV 

Outdoor  sports  and  games.     Miller j  796  \\'«> 

Outdoor  studies.     Necdham j  590.4  N19 

Outdoor  work.     Miller j   630   M69 

Outdoors,  indoors  and  up  the  chimney.     Mcllvaine j  570.4  M17 


438  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Outlines  of  universal  history.     Fisher j  909  F53 

Overall  boys.     Grover j  372.4  G940 

Oxford  book  of  English  verse.     Couch j  821.08  C830 

Page,  esquire  and  knight.     Lansing j  398.2  L28 

Pagine  sparse.     Amicis j  854  A51 

Painters,    sculptors,    architects,    engravers,    and    their    works. 

Clement rj  927  C56P 

Painting.     Kemp j   741   K17 

Palmer  Cox  Brownie  primer.     Judd j  372.4  J49 

Panjandrum  picture  book.     Caldecott j  821   C12 

Panther  stories.     Carter j  C237P 

Pappina,  the  little  wanderer.     Davis j  D319P 

Parables  from  nature.     2v.  in  1.     Gatty j  828  G23 

Parent's   assistant.      Edgeworth j    E284pa 

Pathfinder.     Cooper j    C787pa 

Patriotic  plays  and  pageants.     Mackay j  812  M17P 

Patriotism  and  the  flag j  172  P29 

Patsy,   Story   of.     Wiggin j    W688st 

Paul  and  Virginia.     Saint   Pierre j   S 149P 

Paul  Jones.     Seawell j  S442P 

Pawnee  hero  stories  and  folk-tales.     Grinnell j  398.097  G92P 

Peace  and  patriotism.    Smith j'808.8  S64 

Peasant  and  the  prince.     Martineau j  M431P 

Peep  at  the  front.    McFee j  940.91  M15 

Peep-in-the-World.      Crichton j    C883P 

Peggy.      Richards j    R411P 

Pelham  and  his  friend  Tim.     French j  F925P 

Penelope's  progress.     Wiggin j  W688pe 

Pennsylvania  reader.     Goho j   974.8  G57 

Penseroso,   II.     Milton j   821    M71 

Pepper  &  salt.     Pyle qj  P996P 

Perez  the  mouse.     Coloma j  C72ip 

Perfect  tribute.     Andrews j   A$6&p 

Perseverance   island.      Frazar j    F892P 

Personal  history  of  David  Copperfield.     2v.     Dickens j  D55ld2 

Personal  recollections  of  Joan  of  Arc.     Twain j   T897pe 

Personally  conducted.     Stockton j  914  S86 

Pet  book.     Comstock j   636  C73 

Peter  and  Polly.     Wilkinson j  W729P 

Peter  and  Polly  in  autumn.     Lvicia j  L9692PU 

Peter  and  Polly  in  spring.     Lucia j  L9692PS 

Peter  and  Polly  in  summer.     Lucia j  L9692P 

Peter  and  Polly  in  winter.     Lucia j  L9692pe 

Peter  Pan  in   Kensington  gardens.     Barrie j   B266P 

Peter  Rabbit,  Tale  of.     Potter j  P8s6t 

Peterkin  papers.     Hale j   Hi6ip 

Petits   tableaux   d'histoire   de    France.      Gauthier  &   Des- 

champs qj   944   G24 


CHILDREN'S   HOOKS- TITLE  LIST  439 

Peveril  of  the   Peak.     Scott j   S431P 

Phaeton   Rogers.     Johnson j   J364P 

Phebe,  her  profession.     Ray j    R241P 

Photography  for  young  people.     Jenks j   770  J25 

Phronsie   Pepper.     Sidney j   S569P 

Phyllis.     Daviess j    D314P 

Physiography  for  high  schools.     Arey j  551   A68 

Picciola.     Saintine j    S157P 

Pick,  shovel  and  pluck.     Bond j  620  B62p 

Pickwick  papers.     2v.     Dickens j   D551P 

The  same;  illus.  by  Reynolds qj   D551P2 

Pictures  and  rhymes.     Newell j  817  N27 

Pictures  from  Greek  life  and  story.     Church j  938  C46 

Picturesque  geographical  readers.     6v.     King j  910  K26 

Pieces  for  every  occasion.     Le   Row j  808.8  L63 

Pied  piper.     Stock j  793.1  S86p 

Pied  piper  of  Hamelin.     Browning qj  821   B8i9pi2 

The  same;  illus.  by  Greenaway qj  821   B8i9pi3 

Pierre  and  his  poodle.     Champney j   C358pi 

Pilgrim  stories.     Pumphrey j  973.2  P98 

Pilgrimage  of  the  Ben  Beriah.     Yonge j  Y29pi 

Pilgrims  and  Puritans.     Tiffany j  974.4  T45 

Pilgrims  of  to-day.     Wade j  920  W 1 1 

Pilgrim's  progress.     Bunyan j    B885P4 

The  same;  illus.  by  Hammond j   B885P7 

The  same;  illus.  by  Rhead  brothers qj   B885P3 

The  same;    illus.   by    Strang j    B885P8 

Pilot.     Cooper j   C787pi 

Pinafore  palace.     Wiggin  &  Smith j  821.08  \V68p 

Pineboro  quartette.     Allen j   A432P 

Pink  fairy  book.     Lang j  398   1 ,23p 

Pinocchio.      Lorenzini j    L871P3 

The  same   [abridged] j    L871P4 

The  same;  tr.  by  Cramp j   L87ip2 

The  same  [in  Italian] j  853   '-S7 

Pinocchio  in  Africa.     Cherubini j   C 4 _•  5 1  > 

Pioneers.     Cooper j   C787P 

Pioneers  of  the  Mississippi  valley.     McMurry j  977  M-'ip 

Pioneers    of    the    Rocky    mountains    and    the    West.      Mc- 
Murry  j  917.8  M-'i 

Pioneers  on  land  and  sea.     McMurry j  923. o  M21 

Pirate.     Scott j   S43 1  pi 

Pitching  in  a  pinch.     Mat  hew  son j   796-3'    ^47 

Plant  baby  and  its  friends.     Brown j  58]    B79 

Plantation  pageants.     Harris j    H293P 

Plantation  stories  of  old   Louisiana.     Wilkinson j  \Y7J0Jp 

Plants  and  their  children.     Dana j   58]    1  Mop 

Plattsburg  manual.     Kllis  &  Garey i  355. 51    ES3a 


440  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Plattsburgers.     Pier j    P556p 

Play  songs.     Bentley qj  784.8  B44P 

Playground  book.     Sperling qj    790   S74 

Plays  of  the  pioneers.     Mackay j  793.1  M17 

Playtime.      Murray j    372.4   M97W 

Playtime  songs  for  the  school  room.     Riley  &  Gaynor.  .  .  .j  784.8  R45P 

Plebe  at  West  Point.     Malone j  M294P 

Plutarch's  Lives.     5v .  .  j  920  P72 

The  same;  ed.  by  White j  920  P72b 

The- same;  retold  by  Weston j  920  P72I 

Pocketful  of  posies.     Brown j  81 1  B78 

Poems  &  rhymes.     Tappan j  821.08  T19 

Poems  by  grades.     2v.     Harris  &  Gilbert j  821.08  H29 

Poems  children  love.     Coussens j  821.08  C84 

Poems  for  children.     Rossetti j  821   R"43p 

Poems  of  American  history.     Stevenson j  811.08  S84 

Poems  of  American  patriotism.     Knowles j  811.08  K35 

Poems  of  American  patriotism.     Matthews j   811.08  M47 

Poems  of  childhood.    Field j  811  F45P 

Poems  that  every  child  should  know.     Burt j  821.08  B949 

Poetry  for  children.     Eliot j  821.08  E47 

Poetry  for  children.    Lamb j  821  Li7a 

Poetry  for  school  reading.     White j  821.08  W63 

Poetry  of  the  people.     Gayley  &  Flaherty j  821.08  G25 

Poetry  of  the  seasons.     Lovejoy j  821.08  L942P 

Politics  for  young  Americans.     Nordhoff j  320  N43a 

Polly  and  Dolly.     Blaisdell '.  .  .  .j   B525P 

Polly  Cologne.     Diaz j  D539P 

Polly  Oliver's  problem.     Wiggin j  W688p 

Polly  Page  Yacht  Club.     Forrester j  F782P 

Polly's  secret.     Nash j  N143P 

Pond  life;  insects.     Butler j   595.7  B97P 

Pony  tracks.     Remington j  917.8  R33 

Poor  boys  who  became  famous,  Lives  of.     Bolton j  920  B61 

Popular  natural  history.     Wood j  590  W85 

Portrait  book  of  our  kings  and  queens.     Hare j  923.1   H26 

Posthumous  papers  of  the  Pickwick  club.    2v.     Dickens j  D551P 

The  same;  illus.  by  Reynolds qj  D551P2 

Posy  ring.     Wiggin  &  Smith j  821.08  W68 

Pot  of  gold.     Wilkins j  W728P0 

Poultry    houses,    coops    and    equipment.      Webb    Publishing 

Co j  636.5  W36 

Practical  boat  building  and  sailing.     Neison j  699.1  N2ip 

Practical  kites  and  aeroplanes.     Walker j  533.6  W16 

Practical  poultry  keeper.     Wright j  636.5  W93 

Prairie.     Cooper j   C787pr 

Prairie   Rose.     Bush j   B964P 

President  Wilson's   addresses j   973.913   U25 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  441 

Pride  and  prejudice.     Austen j   A933P 

Primary  history.     Mace j  973  M15 

Primary  plan  book.     3v.     George .  .  .j  i~2  G3ia2 

Primer.     Alexander j   372.4  A37P 

Primer.     Blodgett j   372.4  B55 

Primer.     Bryce  &  Spaulding j  372.4  B84 

Primer  of  sanitation  and  physiology.     2v.  in  1.     Ritchie j  613  R49 

Prince  and  his  ants.     Bertelli j   B462P 

Prince  and  the  page.     Yonge j   Y29P 

Prince  and  the  pauper.    Twain j  T897P 

Prince  Darling.     Lang j  398  L23pr 

Prince  Dusty.     Munroe j   M968P 

Prince's  story  book.     Gomme j  G597pr 

Princess    and    Curdie.      MacDonald j    M146P 

Princess  and  Joe  Potter.     Otis j   O314P 

Princess  and  the   goblin.     MacDonald j   Mi46pr 

Princess  on  the  glass  hill.     Lang j  398  L23pri 

Princess's  story  book.     Gomme j   G597P 

Prisoners  of  the  Tower  of  London.     Hunt j  920  H94 

Prize   cup.     Trowbridge j    T773P 

Profitable  vocations  for  boys.     Weaver  &  Byler j  174  W36 

Progress  of  a  united  people.     Barstow j  973  B27P 

Promised  land.     Antin j  92  A63ia 

Prose  passages.     Parkman j  973—  P-Mp 

Proverb  stories.     Alcott j   A355P 

Proverbs;  ed.  by  Moulton j  223.7  P97 

Psalms;  ed.  by  Moulton.    2v j  223.2  B47 

Puck  of  Pook's  hill.     Kipling j   K278PU 

Pueblo    Indian   folk-stories.      Lummis j   398.097   L97 

The  Punchinellos.     Davis j   D319P 

Quaint  old  stories  to  read  and  act.     Lansing j  793.1  L28 

Quand  j'etais  petit.     Biart j  843   B47 

Quarterdeck,  and  Fok'sle.     Seawell j   S  |  |-'i 

Queen  bee.     Ewald j  570.4  E96 

Queen  Hildegarde.     Richards j   R4HM 

Queen's  museum.     Stockton j  S866q 

Queen's  story  book.     Gomme j  G597q 

Queer  little  people.     Stowe j  S892q 

Quentin   Durward.     Scott j   S43K1 

Quest  of  the  fish-dog  skin.     Schultz j  970.1   S38q 

Quest  of  the  four-leaved  clover.     Laboulaye i    1 .1  1  r<l 

Quicksilver  Sue.     Richards j    R4Iiqu 

Rah  and   his   friends.     Brown j    B79K 

Rabbit  witch.     Pyle j  'sm    P99C 

Racketty-Packetty  house.     Burnett j    B93  \t 

Rafael  in  Italy.     Blaisdell  &  Dalrymplc j  914.5  B52 

Raftmates.     Munroe j   M'joSr 

Railroad    hook.      Smith j    S646r 


442  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Rajah  of  Dah.     Fenn j   F362r 

Ramona.      Jackson j    Ji24r 

The  same j   Ji24r2 

Ranald  Bannerman's  boyhood.     MacDonald j   Mi46r 

Ranch  life  and  the  hunting-trail.     Roosevelt qj  917.8  R68r 

Ranche  on  the  Oxhide.     Inman j   l246r 

Reader  for  fifth  grades.     Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75r 

Reader  for  higher  grades.     Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75rd 

Reader  for  seventh  grades.     Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75rea 

Reader  for  sixth  grades.     Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75re 

Reading  book  in  Irish  history.     Joyce j  941.5  J48 

Reading — literature;  first  reader.     Treadwell  &  Free j  372.4  T7ia 

Reading — literature;  second  reader.    Treadwell  &  Free.  .  .  .j  372.4  T7ib 

Reading — literature;  the  primer.     Treadwell  &  Free j  372.4  T71 

Ready  rangers.     Munroe j  M968re 

Real  electric  toy-making.     St.  John j  537.81  Si4r 

Real  folks.     Whitney j  \V651r 

Rebecca  of  Sunnybrook  farm.     Wiggin j  W688r 

Recitations  for  assembly  and  class-room.     O'Neill j  808.8  O25 

Recollections  of  a  drummer-boy.     Kieffer j  973.7  K24 

Recreations  for  girls.     Beard j  790  B343i 

Red  book  of  heroes.     Lang j  920  L23 

Red  Cross  drill.     Hallowell j  793.4  H18 

Red  Cross  stories.     Faulkner j  361  F27 

Red  fairy  book.     Lang j  398  L23r 

Red  feathers.     Roberts j  R538r 

Red  folk  and  wild  folk.     Deming qj  D42ir 

Red  Indian  fairy  book.     Olcott j  398.097  O23 

Red  letter  days  and  red  letter  facts.     Hall  &  Lennox j  808.8  H17 

Red  mustang.     Stoddard j    S869r 

Red  patriot.     Stoddard j   S869re 

Red  Riding  Hood's  picture  book.     Crane qj  398  C867r 

Red   Rover.     Cooper j   C787r 

Red  true  story  book.     Lang j  904  L23r 

Redgauntlet.     Scott j   S43Tr 

Redney  McGaw.     McFarlane j   Mi58r 

Redskins.     Cooper j   C787re 

References  for  literary  workers.     Matson rj  028  M47 

Reign  of  King  Herla.     Canton j  398  C17 

Reign  of  King  Oberon.     Jerrold j  398  J28 

Representative  cities  of  the  United  States.     Hotchkiss.  .  .  . j  917.3  H82 
Return  of  Odysseus.     Francis  W.  Parker  School,  Chicago,  .qj  793.1  F86r 

Revolutionary  stories j   R371 

Rhymes  and  fables.     Haaren j   Hii3r 

Rhymes  and  jingles.     Dodge j  81 1   D67r 

Rhymes  and  stories.     Lansing j  398  L28r 

Rhymes  for  the  young  folk.     Allingham j  821   A43 

Rhymes  of  childhood.     Riley j  811   R45r 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE    LIST  443 

Rhymes  of  real  children.     Sage qj  8ll   S12 

Rhythmic  games  and  dances.     Kirk j  784.8  K28 

Riders  of  many  lands.     Dodge j  798  D67 

Rienzi.     Lytton j   L990T 

Rime  of  the  ancient  mariner.     Coleridge j  821   C68 

Rip  Van  Winkle.     Irving j  817  I28r3 

The  same;  illns.  by  Rackham qj  817  IjSu 

The  same;  illus.  by  Robinson j  817  I28r4 

Road  primer  for  school  children.     Ravenel j  625.7  R23 

Rob  Roy.     Scott j  S43iro3 

Robin  Hood.     Francis  W.  Parker  School,  Chicago qj  793.1   F86ro 

Robin  Hood.     Perkins qj  821.08  P43 

Robin  Hood,  Merry  adventures  of.     Pyle j  398.22  P99 

Robin  Hood,  Some  merry  adventures  of.     Pyle j  398.22  P99S 

Robin  Hood  and  his  outlaw  band.     Rhead j  398.22   R38 

Robin  Hood,  his  book.     Tappan j  398.22  T19 

Robin   Redbreast.     Molesworth j   M789ro 

Robinson   Crusoe.      Defoe j    D3/81 

The   same j    D378I3 

The  same;  ed.  by  Godolphin j  D3781g2 

The  same;  illus.  by  Pocock j   D378I4 

Rocky  Fork.     Catherwood j   C282ro 

Rodolphus.     Abbott i    A  1 32b 

Roggie  and  Reggie  stories.     Smith j   S648ro 

Roland,  the  paladin  of  France.     Ragozin j  398.2   R15 

Roll  call  of  honour.     Couch j  920  C83 

Roly-poly  pudding.      Potter j    P8s6r 

Roman  life  in  the  days  of  Cicero.     Church j  913.37  '    )'' 

Roman  maiden.     Marshall j    M4101- 

Romance  of  American  colonization.     Griffis j  073. 2  <  iSu 

Romance  of  discovery.     Griffis j  973-1    G89 

Romance  of  modern  engineering.     Williams j  620  W74* 

Romance  of  savage  life.     Elliot j  57'   E52 

Romance  of  the  Civil  war.     Hart j  973-7  H31 

Romance  of  the  mighty  deep.     Giberne j  551  46  <  i.?'>r 

Romeo  &  Juliet.    Shakespeare j  822.33  U32 

Romola.     Eliot j    E  i:<>t 

Roof  and  meadow.    Sharp j  590.  t  S53r2 

Rosamond.     Edgeworth j   E28  \T 

Rose  and  the  ring.     Thackeray j    1  33.U" 

Rose  in  bloom.     Alcott j    A.355r 

Ross  Grant,  tenderfoot.     ( rarland j  G  l87r 

Round-about  rami) Its.    Stockton j  5°t  S86 

Round   dozen.     Coolidge j    (  r^J1 

Round  the  world.     Moncrieff qj  910  M8l 

'Round  the  year  in  myth  and  song,     Holbrook j  292  H69 

Roundabout  rambles  in  northern  Europe.    King j  910  K26  v.6 

Rout  of  the  foreigner.    Zollinger j  Z77' 


444  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Roy  and  Ray  in  Canada.     Plummer j  917. 1  P72 

Roy  and  Ray  in  Mexico.    Plummer j  917.2  P72 

Royal  children.     Chapin : j  782.3  H92C 

Rulers  of  the  surf.     Muller j  M958r 

Rules  of  conduct.     Washington j  92  W272 

Runaway  donkey.     Poulsson j  81 1   P86 

Running  Eagle,  the  warrior  girl.     Schultz j  S3872r 

Running  the  river.     Eggleston j  E3S7ir 

Russian  fairy  tales.     Bain j  398  Bi6r 

Russian  grandmother's  wonder  tales.     Houghton j  398  H83 

Russian  story  book.    Wilson j  398  W772 

Russian  wonder  tales.     Wheeler j  398  W61 

The  sailor.    Jenks j  656.8  J25 

Sailor  boys  of  '61.     Soley j  973-7  S68s 

St.  George  for  England.     Henty j  H4S6st 

St.  John ;  ed.  by  Moulton j  226.5  B47 

St.  Nicholas  book  of  plays  and  operettas,     v.i j  793.1  S14 

St.  Nicholas  Christmas  book j  S147S 

St.  Nicholas  songs qj  784.8  S14 

Saints  and  friendly  beasts,  Book  of.    Brown j  398.2  B78 

Saints  and  heroes.     Hodges j  922  H66 

Saints  and  heroes,  Book  of.     Lang j  922  L23 

Saints  in  art.     Clement j  755  C56S 

Saints  in  story.     Peers j  398.2  P36 

Sammtliche  marchen.     Andersen j  833  A54 

The  sampo.     Baldwin j  398.2  B19 

Sandman;  his  farm  stories.     Hopkins j  H786S 

Sandman;  his  Indian  stories.     Phillips j  398.097  P51 

Sandman;  his  ship  stories.     Hopkins j  H786sh 

Sandman;  more  farm  stories.     Hopkins j  H786sa 

Santa  Claus  on  a  lark.     Gladden j  G457S 

Sara  Crewe.     Burnett j   B934S2 

Sarah  Brewster's  relatives.     Peattie j  P354s 

Saturday  mornings.     Burrell j  640  B94 

School  and  college  days.     Munroe  &  Catherwood j  M968sto 

School  garden  book.    Weed  &  Emerson j  716.6  W42 

School  needlework.     Hapgood j  646  H24 

School  team  in  camp.     Earl j  E1732S 

School  team  on  the  diamond.     Earl j  E1732SC 

Schumann  album  of  children's  pieces  for  piano.    Schumann,  .qj  786.4  S39 

The  sciences.     Holden j  500  H71 

Scientific  American  boy.     Bond j  790  B62 

Scotland's  story.     Marshall j  94*   M41 

Scottish  chiefs.     Porter j   P836S 

Scottish  fairy  book.     Grierson j  398  G89S 

Scout  of  to-day.     Hornibrook j   H8ns 

Scouting  for  Washington.     True j   T776S 

Scouts  of  Stonewall.     Altsheler j   A466S 


CHILDREN'S  ROOKS— TITLE  LIST  445 

Sea  fighters  from  Drake  to  Farragut.     Frothingham j  923.5  F97 

Sea  lions.     Cooper j   C787S 

Sea   stories j    S438 

Sea  stories.     Brady -. j  B686b2 

Sea  stories  for  wonder  eyes.    Hardy j  591.92  H26 

Search  for  Andrew  Field.     Tomlinson j  T597.S 

Search  lights  on  some  American  industries.     Mills j  609  M6<) 

Seashore.     Duncan j   592   D89 

Seashore    book.      Smith j    S646S 

Seat  work  and  industrial  occupations.     Gilman  &  Williams,  .j  372.5  G42 

Sebago-Wohelo  camp  fire  girls.     Rogers j  369.3  R61 

Second  book  of  birds.     Miller j  598.2  M69S 

Second  boys'  book  of  model  aeroplanes.     Collins j  533.6  C71S 

Second  jungle  book.     Kipling j  K278se 

Second  reader.     Alexander j   808.8  A37S 

Second  reader.     Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75S 

Second  reader.    Van  Sickle  &  Seegmiller j  808.8  V17 

Secret  of  the  clan.     Brown j  R783S 

Secrets  out  of  doors.     Gibson j  570.4  G37S 

Seed-babies.     Morley j  581   M91 

Seed  dispersal.     Beal j  581.54  B34 

Select  fables.     La  Fontaine j  398.91  L14S 

Selected  shop  problems.     Seaton j  684  S44 

Selections  for  memorizing.     Foster  &  Williams j  808.8  F81 

Semaphore  flag  drill.     Hallowell j  793.4  Hi8s 

Serbian  fairy  tales.     Mijatovich j  398  M68 

Seven  champions  of  Christendom j  398.2  S49a 

The  same;  ed.  by  Cartwright j  398.2  S49 

Seven  little  people  and  their  friends.     Scudder j  S436S 

Seven  little  sisters.     Andrews j  910  A56S 

Seven  old  ladies  of  Lavender  town.     Bunner j  782.8  B88 

Sewing  for  little  girls.     Foster j  646  F81 

Shades  of  the  Wilderness.     Altsheler j  A466SI1 

Shadow  entertainments.     Patterson j   793.1   P31 

Shakespeare   story-book.     MacLeod j   822.33    II- 

Shakespeare,  the  boy.     Rolfe j  822.33  Bl 

Shakespeare's  stories  of  the  English  kings.     Carter j  822.33  H25 

Sharp  eyes.     Burroughs j  5<>\.s   B94D 

Sharp  eyes.     Gibson j  57"  1  <  '37 

Shawl-straps.     Alcott t   A355sh 

She  stoops  to  conquer.     Goldsmith i  822  ( rS8 

Shell  book.     Rogers qj   504    R6l 

Shelters,  shacks  and  shanties.     Beard j  796.5  R34 

Shepherd  of  the  ocean.     Whit  ham i  W6459 

Ship  of  state j  353  S55 

Short  history  of  coins  and  currency.     Lubbock j  332.49  L96 

Short  history  of  natural  science      Buckley j  5°9  B85 

Short  rails.     Warman i   W232SI1 


ege  of  Leyden.     Motley j  949.2  M94S 

egfried.     Ragozin j   398.27   R15 

gnal  boys.     Eggleston j  E357IS 

gnal  Butte.     King j  K263t 

grid,  our  little  Swedish  cousin.     Coburn j  914.85  C63 

gurd  the  Volsung,  Story  of.     Morris j  821   M91S 

las   Marner.      Eliot j    E476si 

lent  Pete.     Otis j   03i4sil 

lver  fairy  book.     Voltaire j  V378S 

lver  pitchers.     Alcott j    A355si 

lver  thread.     Mackay j  812  M17 

ng-song.     Rossetti j  821    R743S 

nging  circle.     Bell qj    784.8   B41 

nopah,  the  Indian  boy.     Schultz j  970.1  S38S 

ntram  &  his  companions.     La  Motte-Fouque j  L194S 

r  Galahad,  Story  of.     Malory j  398.25  M29S 

r  Gibbie.     MacDonald j   Mi46si 

r  Launcelot,  Story  of.     Pyle j  398.25  P99S 

r  Marrok.     French j   F925S 

r  Roger  de  Coverley.     Addison j  824  A22S 

ster's  vocation.     Daskam j   D273si 

x  fairy  plays  for  children.     Syrett j  822  S99 

x  little  cooks.     Kirkland j  641  K28 

x  nursery  classics.     O'Shea j  398  O29S 

x  Star  ranch.     Porter j   P8352S 

x  to  sixteen.     Ewing j  E975S 

xty  patriotic  songs  of  all  nations.     Bantock qj  784.4  B22 

Sketch-book.     Irving j  817  l28sk 

Sketches  of  American  authors.     2v.     Keysor j  928  K23 

Slav  fairy  tales  of  the  Slav  peasants  and  herdsmen.    Chodzko.  .  j  398  C44a 

Sleeping  beauty.     Couch qj  398  C83 

Slovenly  Peter.     Hoffmann qj   H6812S 

The  slowcoach.     Lucas j   L969S 

Small  songs  for  small  singers.     Neidlinger qj  784.8  N21 

Snow  baby.     Peary qj  919.8  P353S 

Snow  Bird  and  the  Water  Tiger.     Compton j  398.097  C73 

Snow-bound.     Whittier j  811  \V66s3 

Snow  image.     Hawthorne j   H367h 

Snow-shoes  and  sledges.     Munroe j  M968S 

Snow  White  and  the  seven  dwarfs.     White j  812  W63 

Snowland  folk.     Peary qj  919.8  P35 

So-fat  and  Mew-mew.     Craik j  C8632S 

Soap-bubbles  and  the  forces  which  mould  them.     Boys j  532  B67 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  447 

Soldier  of  the  legion.     Norton j  N463S 

Soldier  Rigdale.     Dix j   D647S 

Soldiers  of  the  sea.     Ahbot j  359.52  Ai_' 

Solomon  Crow's  Christmas  pockets.     Stuart j  S932S0I 

Some  curious  flyers,  creepers  and  swimmers.     Johonnot..  .  .j  590.4  J37s 

Some  curious  insects.     Duncan j  595.7  D89S 

Some  merry  adventures  of  Robin  Hood.     Pyle j  398.22  P99S 

Some  nursery  rhymes  of  Belgium,   France   &   Russia.     Wal- 
ter  j  784.8  W19 

Some  strange  corners  of  our  country.     Luramis j  917.8  L97S 

Sommermarchen.      Baumbach j  833   B32 

Son  of  Columbus.     Seawell j  S442S 

Son  of  the  Revolution.     Brooks j   B773SO 

Song  of  Hiawatha.     Longfellow j  811   L82S 

Song  play  book.     Wollaston qj  784.8  W84 

Song  primer.     Bentley j  784.8  B44S0 

Song  primer;  teacher's  book.     Bentley j  784.8   B44 

Song  series.     2v.      Bentley j    784.8   B44S 

Songs  and  games  for  little  ones.     Walker  &  Jenks qj  372.2  Wri6a 

Songs  and  rhymes  for  the  little  ones.     Morrison j  821.08  M919 

Songs  and  stories.     Haaren j  Hi  13s 

Songs  for  little  children.     Smith qj  372.2  S64S 

Songs,  games  and  rhymes.     Hailmann qj  372.2  H14 

Songs  I  know.     Everson qj  784  E95S 

Songs  o'  cheer.     Riley j   811   R45s 

Songs  of  a  little  child's  day.     Poulsson qj  784.8  P86s 

Songs  of  all  the  colleges.     Chamberlain  &  Harrington..  .  .qj  784.6  C35 

Songs  of  innocence.     Blake j  821  B52 

The  same;  illus.  by  Robinson j  821   B52a 

Songs  of  labor.     Whittier j  811  W66S3 

Songs  of  the  child-world.     2v.     Riley  &  Gaynor qj  784.8  R45 

Songs  of  the  tree-top  and  meadow.     McMurry  &  Cook.  .  .  .j  821.08  Mji 

Songs  that  every  child  should  know.     Bacon j  784.8  B12 

Sonnez  les  matines.     Pierne j  784. 8  P56 

Sonny  Sahib,  Story  of.     Duncan 1    I)  Sous t 

Sophie's  troubles.     Segur j  S  156s 

Sound  bodies  for  our  boys  and  girls.     Blaikie i  613.71    B52S 

South  American  republics.     Markwick  &  Smith i  918   M39 

South  seas.     Abbott j  919-3    ^13 

Southern   stories j    S727 

Spalding's  official  base  ball  guide j  700.31    S73 

Spanish  chest.     Brown j  678523 

Spanish    fairy  book.     Segovia j   S454S 

Spanish  pioneers.     Lummis j   073.1    L07 

Spartaco.     2v.     Giovagnoli j   853   ( '  H 

The  Spartan.     Siudeker j   S67I2S 

Speaker's  garland,     v.  1-9 j  808.8  Sri 

Special  days  in  school.    Gowdy j  808.8  G7S 


1? 


.448  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Spiders  and  scorpions.     Duncan -j  595-4  D89 

Spinner  family.     Patterson . j  595-4  P31 

Spinning-wheel  stories.     Alcott j  A355S 

Spirit  of  democracy.     Powell j  808.8  P87 

Spool  knitting.     McCormack j   646  M14 

Sports  &  pastimes.    Tappan j  790  T19 

Spring  of  the  year.     Sharp j  590-4  S53S 

Spy.     Cooper j  C787SP 

Squirrel  Nutkin,  Tale  of.     Potter j  P8s6ta 

Squirrels  and  other  fur-bearers.     Burroughs j  599-3  B94 

Standard   bearer.      Whitehead j    W639S 

Star  jewels,  and  other  wonders.     Brown j  B784S 

Star-land.     Ball j  523  B21S2 

Star  of  Gettysburg.     Altsheler j   A466st 

Starfish  &  his  relations.     Duncan j  593  D89 

Stars  and  Stripes.     Harrison j  929.9  H29 

Stars  and  Stripes.     Stewart j  929-9  S85 

Stars  and  their  mysteries.    Gibson j  523  G369 

Stars  and  their  stories.     Griffith j  523.8  G89 

Stars  in  song  and  legend.     Porter j  523.8  P83 

Stars  shown  to  the  children.     Hawks j  523  H36 

Steadfast  princess.     Meigs j  793-1   M57 

Step  by  step.     Peabody j  372.4  ?33 

Stevenson  song-book.     Stevenson qj  784-8  S84S 

Stickeen.     Muir j   M953S 

Stirring  deeds  of  Britain's  sea-dogs.     Wheeler j  940.915  W61 

Stolen  treasure.     Pyle j  P996st 

Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 
Stor 


ed  holidays.     Brooks j   B773S 

elle  serene.     Fulvia qj  853  F98 

es.    Andersen qj  A544S3 

es  and  poems  for  children.     Thaxter j  T339S 

es  and  tales.     Andersen j   A544S 

es  for  boys.     Davis j  D323S 

es  from  American  history.     Ellis j  973  E53 

es  from  British  history.     Bevan j  942  B46 

es  from  Chaucer.     Kelman j  821  C41S 

es  from  Don  Quixote.     Cervantes j   C334ih 

es  from  Dutch  history.     Dawson j  949.2  D33 

es  from  English  history.     Blaisdell j  942  B52 

es  from  English  history.    Creighton . .  . j  942  C8761 

es  from  English  history.     Warren j  942  W24 

es  from  famous  ballads.     Greenwood j  398.21  G85 

es  from  Froissart.     Froissart j  940.4  F96S 

es  from  German  history.     Aston j  943  A85 

es  from  Greek  tragedy.     Havell j  882  H35 

es  from  Grimm.     Grimm j  398  G91S 

es  from   Homer.     Church j  883   H75S 

es  from  Livy.     Church j  878  L75S 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  449 

Stories  from  old  English  romance.     Pollard j  398.2  P76 

Stories  from  old  French  romance.     Wilmot-Buxton j  398.2  \V76s 

Stories  from  seven  old  favorites.     Tappan j  T192S 

Stories  from  the  .Eneid.     Havell j  873  V3  \h 

Stories  from  the  Arabian  nights j  398  A65sh 

The  satin: qj  398  A65SI12 

Stories  from  the  Chronicle  of  the  Cid.     Plummer j  398.28  C47 

Stories  from  the  classics.     Tappan j  880.8  T19 

Stories  from  the  Faerie  queene.     MacLeod j  821  Sj4m 

Stories  from  the  Far  East.    Kent  &  Hall j  398.91  K19 

Stories  from  the  Greek  comedians.     Church j  882  C46S 

Stories  from  the  Greek  tragedians.     Church j  882  C46 

Stories  from  the  Iliad.    Havell j  883  H75iha 

Stories  from  the  life  of  Christ;  ed.  by  Kelman j  225  B47 

Stories  from  the  Odyssey.     Havell j  883  H750I1 

Stories  from  the  Odyssey.     Lang j  883  H75ola 

Stories  from  the  Old  testament.     Beale j  221   B34 

Stories  from  the  rabbis.     Isaacs j  296  129a 

Stories  from  Virgil.     Church j  873  V34 

Stories  from  Wagner.     McSpadden j  782.2  W13 

Stories  Mother  Nature  told  her  children.     Andrews j  570.4  A56 

Stories  of  adventure.     Hale j  910.8  H15S 

Stories  of  American  discoverers.     Lucia j  973.1    L96 

Stories  of  American  explorers.     Gordy j  973.1   G66 

Stories  of  American  history.     Dodge j  973  D67 

Stories  of  American  life  and  adventure.     Eggleston j  973  E35S 

Stories  of  American  pioneers j  923  S88 

Stories  of  ancient  peoples.     Arnold j  930    ^.75 

Stories  of  animal  life.     Bass j  51)0.4  B29a 

Stories  of  animal  life.     Holder j  590.4  H71S 

Stories  of  art  and  artists.     Clement qj  750  C56 

Stories  of  Beowulf.     Marshall j  829  1144111 

Stories  of  birds  and  beasts.     Wright j  570.4  W935 

Stories  of  brave  dogs.     Carter j   C237S 

Stories  of  Charlemagne.     Church j  398.26   C46 

Stories  of  chivalry j   S884 

Stories  of  colonial  children.     Pratt j  973.2   P88 

Stories  of  discovery.     Hale j  010.8  H15 

Stories  of  great  Americans  for  little  Americans.     Eggleston.  .j  923.2  E35 

Stories  of  great  artists.     Home  &  Scobey j  927.5   1 1  r<j 

Stories  of  great  inventors.     Macomber j  926  M  21 

Stories  of  great  men j  920  S88 

Stories  of  Greece  and  Rome j  038  S84 

Stories  of  Greek  gods,  heroes  and  nun.      Harding j  _''>_•  I  L'5 

Stories  of  heroic  deeds.     Johonnot j  90  |  J37 st 

Stories  of  humble  friends.     Pyle j   P096IS 

Stories  of  Indian  children.     Husted j  970. 1    H96 

Stories  of  industry.     2v.     Chase  &  Clow j  670  C38a3 


450  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Stories  of  insect  life.    2v.    Weed  &  Murtfeldt j  595.7  \V42s 

Stories  of  inventors.     Doubleday j  609  D75 

Stories  of  King  Arthur  and  the  Round  Table.     Clay j  398.25  C54 

Stories  of  legendary  heroes.     Tappan j  398.2  T19 

Stories  of  long  ago.     Kupfer j  292  K43 

Stories  of  Massachusetts.     Pratt  &  Lovering j  9744  P88 

Stories  of  Mother  Goose  village.     Bigham j  B478S 

Stories  of  nature.     Tappan j  504  T19 

Stories  of  New  Jersey.    Stockton j  974.9  S86 

Stories  of  New  York.     Lovering j  974.7  L94 

Stories  of  Norse  heroes.     Wilmot-Buxton j  293  W76 

Stories  of  Ohio.     Howells j  977.1  H85 

Stories  of  old  France.     Pitman j  944  P66 

Stories  of  old  Greece.     Firth j  292  F52 

Stories  of  other  lands.     Johonnot j  904  J37s 

Stories  of  our  authors.     Macomber j  928  M21 

Stories  of  our  country.    Johonnot j  973  J37 

Stories  of  Pennsylvania.     Walton  &  Brumbaugh j  974.8  W19 

Stories  of  Persian  heroes.     Wilmot-Buxton j  891.5  W76 

Stories  of  persons  and  places  in  Europe.     Benedict j  914  B43 

Stories  of  pioneer  life.     Bass j  973  B29 

Stories  of  plant  life.     Bass j  580.4  B29a 

Stories  of  plants  and  animals.     Wright j  570-4  W935P 

Stories  of  Roland.     Marshall j  398.26  M41 

Stories  of  the  Civil  war.    Blaisdell j  973.7  B52 

Stories  of  the  East  from  Herodotus.     Church j  888  H47 

Stories  of  the  gorilla  country.     Du  Chaillu j  916.7  D86 

Stories  of  the  great  West.     Roosevelt j  917.8  R68s 

Stories  of  the  middle  ages j  S8842 

Stories  of  the  old  Bay  state.     Brooks j  974.4  B77 

Stories  of  the  Old  Dominion.     Cooke j  975-5  C77 

Stories  of  the  Old  World.     Church j  292  C46 

Stories  of  the  olden  time.    Johonnot j  904  J37 

Stories  of  the  Pilgrims.     Pumphrey j  973.2  P98 

Stories  of  the  red  children.     Brooks j  B7733S 

Stories  of  the  Scottish  border.     Piatt j  398.21  P68 

Stories  of  the  sea.     Hale j  910.4  H15 

Stories  of  the  Wagner  opera.     Guerber j  782.2  G95 

Stories  of  three  saints.     MacGregor j  922  M16 

Stories  of  Wagner  operas.     Wheelock j  782.2  W61 

Stories  of  William  Tell  and  his  friends.     Marshall j  92  T275m 

Stories  Polly  Pepper  told.     Sidney j  S569S 

Stories  the  Iroquois  tell  their  children.     Powers j  398.097  P87 

Story-book  of  science.     Fabre j  504  F11 

Story  garden  for  little  children.     Lindsay j  L722S 

Story  hour.     Wiggin  &  Smith j  W688sto 

Story  hour  readers.     3v.     Coe  &  Christie j  372.4  C65S 

Story  hour  readers;  primer.     Coe  &  Christie j  372.4  C65 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST 


45i 


Story  land.     Murray j  372.4  M97W3 

Story-land  dramatic  reader.     Bryce j  372.4  B84st 


Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
The 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  0 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  0 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  0 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  0 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  0 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 


a  had  boy.     Aldrich j  A365S 

a  donkey.     Segur j  S456st 

a  Midsummer  night's  dream.     Hoffman j  822.33  H17 

a  piece  of  coal.     Martin j  553.2  M42 

a  red  deer.     Fortescue j  F792S 

a  short  life.     Ewing j  Eo75st 

same j     Iv)7.;ja4 

a  tinder-hox.     Tidy j  530.46  T44 

Aaron.     Harris j    H  21  13s 

/Eneas.     Clarke j  873  V34ac 

American  history.     Blaisdell j  073  B52 

As  you  like  it.     Hoffman j  822.33  H18 

Babette.     Stuart , .  . .  j  S932S 

Betty.     Wells j  W4943S 

Boston.     Gilman j  974.40  ( ,  1 2 

Caesar.     Clarke j  02  Ci  19c 

Captain  Cook.     Lang j  92  C774I 

Chalmers  of  New  Guinea.     Kelman j  92  C356k 

Chaucer's  Canterbury  pilgrims.     Chaucer j  821  C41SC 

China.    Van  Bergen j  951   Y  17 

Christopher  Columbus.     Moores j  92  C727111 

Columbus.     Imlach j  92  C727i 

Columbus.     Seelye j  02  C727S 

Columbus  and  Magellan.     Lawler j  073.1  L41 

cotton.     Brooks j  033.71  B77 

cotton.      Curtis j    C933S 

Dago.    Johnston j  J  367s 

David  Livingstone.     Golding j  02  1 .7.(01; 

France.     MacGregor j  944  M  10 

Francis  Cludde.     Weyman j  W586S 

Frederick  the  Great.     Carpenter j  92  F895C 

1  reneral  Pershing.    Tomlinson j  92  P447I 

gold  and  silver.     Samuel j   S193S 

great  inventions.     Burns j  609   B93 

Greece.     MacGregor j  938  M  id 

Grettir  the  Strong.     French j   F925SI 

Hereward.     Stedmaii j   S8l2S 

Idylls  of  the  king.    Tennyson j  821  T29S 

iron  and  steel.     Smith i  669.109  S65 

Jack  Ballister's  fortunes.      Pyle j    1'ooos 

Japan.     Van  Bergen j  <)$j  V  17 

Julius  Caesar.     1  foffman j  822.33  1 1 23 

King  Arthur.     Brooks j  398.25  r.77 

King  Arthur  and  his  knights.     Pyle j  398225  P99 

King  Henry  the  Fifth.     1  toff  man j  822.33  H  15 

King  John.     I  foffman j  822.33  H21 


452 


CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 


Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 
Story  o 


King  Lear.     Hoffman j  822.33  H22 

King  Richard  II.     Hoffman j  822.33  H14 

King  Robert  the  Bruce.     Mackie j  92  R534m 

Lincoln.     Cravens j  92  L7i5cr 

little  black  Sambo.     Bannerman j  B228S 

little  Jane  and  me.     Blatchford j  B5412S 

live  dolls.     Gates j  G233S 

Longfellow.     Beebe j  92  L828b 

Macbeth.     Hoffman j  822.33  H24 

Magellan.     Butterworth j  910  B98 

Manhattan.     Hemstreet j  97471   H43 

Marco  Polo.     Brooks j  915  B77 

Matka.     Jordan j  J428m 

music  and  musicians.     Lillie j  780  L69 

my  boyhood  and  youth.     Muir j  92  M9531T1 

Napoleon.     Marshall j  92  Ni29m 

Napoleon.     Wheeler j  92  N129W 

Ohio.     Black j  977-1  B51 

old  Fort  Loudon.     Craddock j  C858st 

Oliver  Cromwell.     Marshall j  92  C892m 

our  army.     Abbot j  973  Ai2s 

our  continent.     Shaler j  917  S52 

our  country.     Burton j  973  B95 

Patsy.     Wiggin j  W688st 

Pocahontas  and  Captain  John  Smith.     Smith j  92  P732S 

Robert  the  Bruce.     Lang j  92  R534I 

Roland.     Baldwin j  398.26  B19 

Rolf  and  the  viking's  bow.     French j  F925sto 

Rome.     MacGregor j  937  M16 

Russia.    Van  Bergen j  947  V17 

Rustem.     Renninger j  891.5  Fsir 

Saint  Elizabeth.     Canton j  92  E4852C 

S.  Francis  of  Assisi.     Grierson j  92  F866g 

Scotch.     Mills j  M699S 

Siegfried.     Baldwin j  398.27  B19 

Sigurd  the  Volsung.     Morris j  821  M91S 

Sir  Galahad.     Malory j  398.25  M29S 

Sir  Launcelot.     Pyle j  398.25  P99S 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh.     Kelly j  92  Ri68k 

Sonny  Sahib.     Duncan j  D899st 

the  ^Eneid.     Brooks j  873  V34ab 

the  alphabet.     Clodd j  411  C61 

the  American  Indian.     Brooks j  97«.i  B77 

the  Bible.     Foster j  220  F81 

the  birds.     Baskett j  598.2  B29 

the  champions  of  the  Round  Table.     Pyle j  398.25  P99Sto 

the  chosen  people.     Guerber j  933  G95 

the  Cid.    Wilson j  398.28  C47W 


CHILDREN'S   HOOKS— TITLE  LIST  453 

Story  of  the  cowboy.     Hough j  917.8  H83 

Story  of  the  crusades.     Wilmot-Buxton j  940.4  W76 

Story  of  the  English.     Guerber j  942  G95 

Story  of  the  fishes.     Baskett j  597  B29 

Story  of  the  forest.     Dorrance j  634.9  D74 

Story  of  the  French  revolution.     Birkhead j  944.04  B48 

Story  of  the  golden  age.     Baldwin j  292  B19S 

Story  of  the  Grail  and  the  passing  of  Arthur.     Pyle j  398.25  P99st 

Story  of  the  great  Republic.     Guerber j  973  G95S 

Story  of  the  Greek  people.     Tappan j  938  T19 

Story  of  the  Greeks.     Guerber j  938  G95 

Story  of  the  Iliad.     Brooks j  883  H75ibr 

Story  of  the  Iliad.     Church j  883  H75ich 

Story  of  the  Indian.     Grinnell j  970.1   G92 

Story  of  the  Indians  of  New  England.     Burton j  974  B95 

Story  of  the  last  days  of  Jerusalem.    Josephus j  933  J44 

Story  of  the  map  of  Europe.     Benezet j  940.911  B43 

Story  of  The  merchant  of  Venice.     Hoffman j  822.33  H16 

Story  of  the  middle  ages.     Harding j  940.1   H25 

Story  of  the  19th  century.     Brooks j  909.8  B77 

Story  of  the  Odyssey.     Brooks j  883  H75obr 

Story  of  the  Odyssey.     Church j  883  H75och 

Story  of  the  other  wise  man.     Van  Dyke j  V187S 

Story  of  the  Persian  war.     Church j  888  H47C 

Story  of  the  railroad.     Warman j  656.673  W23 

Story  of  the  Revolution.     Lodge j  973.3  L76 

Story  of  the  Rhinegold.     Chapin j  782.2  C36 

Story  of  the  Romans.     Guerber j  937  G95 

Story  of  the  submarine.     Bishop j  623.9  B49 

Story  of  The  tempest.     Hoffman j  822.33  H19 

Story  of  the  thirteen  colonies.     Guerber j  973.2  G95 

Story  of  the  treasure  seekers.     Nesbit j   N239S 

Story  of  Troy.     Clarke j  883  H75ic 

Story  of  Viteau.     Stockton j  S866s 

Story  of  Washington.     Seelye j  92  \V272se 

Story  of  wool.     Bassett j  B296S 

Story  teller.     Norton j   398   N46S2 

Story-telling  poems.     Olcott j   821.08   O23 

Storyland  of  stars.     Pratt j   523.8  P88 

Strange  case  of  Doctor  Jekyll  and  Mister  Hyde.     Stevenson. .  .j  S848S 

Strange  lands  near  home.     Lane j  918  L23 

Strange  peoples.     Starr j  572.0  S79, 

Strange  stories  from  history.     Egglestou j  904  E35 

Strange  stories  of  1812 j   S807.se 

Strange  stories  of  the  Civil  war j  S897S 

Strange  stories  of  the  Great  Valley.     Grosvenor j  G941S 

Stray  pearls.     Yonge j    Y29.S 

Stripes  and  types  of  the  royal  navy rj  359.6  S91 


454  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Study  of  elementary  electricity  and  magnetism.     St.  John..j  537.81  S14 

Study  of  insects.     Comstock j  595.7  C731T1 

Stuyvesant.      Abbott j   Ai32stu 

Success.     Marden j    170  M37S 

Successful  venture.     Deland j   D3891S 

Sue   Orcutt.     Vaile j   V137S 

Sugar  and  spice.     Tileston j  821.08  T46S2 

Summer  in  a  canon.     Wiggin j  W688s 

Summer  in  Leslie  Goldthwaite's  life.     Whitney j  \V651s 

Sun,  moon  and  stars.     Giberne j  523  G36 

Sunbonnet  babies'  book.     Grover j  372.4   G94 

Sunbonnet  babies'  primer.     Grover j  372.4  G94 

Sunbridge  girls  at  Six  Star  ranch.     Porter j   P8352S 

Sundering  Flood.     Morris j    M918S 

Sunset  of  the  heroes.     Hutchinson j  292  H97S 

Sunshine  primer.     Noyes  &  Guild j   372.4  N48 

Surprise  house.     Brown j  B784SU 

Surprise   island.     Kennedy j    K184S 

Sweet  William.     Bouvet j  B66is 

Swiss  family  Robinson.     Wyss j  W998S 

The  some;  illus.  by  Rhead j  W998S3 

The  same;  illus.  by   Robinson j   W998S4 

Sword  of  Antietam.     Altsheler j   A466SW 

Swordmaker's   son.     Stoddard j   S869S 

Tailor  and  the  crow.     Brooke j   B772t 

Tailor  of  Gloucester.     Potter j   P8s6tai 

Tale  of  Benjamin  Bunny.     Potter j  P8s6tal 

Tale  of  Mrs  Tiggy-winkle.     Potter j   P8s6te 

Tale  of  Peter  Rabbit.     Potter j  P856t 

Tale  of  Squirrel  Nutkin.     Potter j  P8s6ta 

Tale  of  two  cities.     Dickens j  D55it 

Tales.      Edgeworth j    E284t 

Tales.     Poe j  P74it 

Tales  and  customs  of  the  ancient  Hebrews.     Herbst j  221  H46 

Tales  from  Scottish  ballads.    Grierson j  398.21  G89 

Tales  from  Shakespeare.     Lamb j  822.33  H 

Tales  from  the  Alhambra.     Irving j  398.2  I28 

Tales  from  the  f jeld.    Asbjornsen j  398  A79t 

Tales  from  the  travels  of  Baron  Munchausen.     Raspe j  R2i5t 

Tales  from  Washington  Irving's  Traveller.     Irving j  817  l28t 

Tales  of  a  grandfather.     Scott j  941   S43 

Tales  of  a  wayside  inn.    Longfellow j  811  L82ta 

Tales  of  ancient  Greece.     Cox j  292  C85 

Tales  of  fantasy.     Jenks j  J259t 

Tales  of  King  Arthur.     Farrington j  398.25  F25 

Tales  of  laughter.     Wiggin  &  Smith j  398  W68t 

Tales  of  Mother  Goose.     Perrault j  398  P43t 

Tales  of  the  Canterbury  pilgrims.     Darton j  821  C4U 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  455 

Tales  of  the  Caucasus.     Dumas j  D891  ib2 

Tales  of  the  enchanted  islands  of  the  Atlantic.     Higginson.  .j  398.2  H53 

Tales  of  the  Persian  genii.     Olcott j   023it 

Tales  of  Troy.     Witt j  883  W82 

Tales  of  wonder.     Wiggin  &  Smith j  398  W68 

Tales  out  of  school.     Stockton j  S866ta 

Talisman.     Sadlicr j    Si26t 

Talisman.     Scott j   S-43it4 

The    same j    S43Tt2 

Talking  beasts.     Wiggin  &  Smith j  398.91  W68 

Talking    leaves.      Stoddard j    S869ta 

Taming  of  the  shrew.     Shakespeare j  822.33  Q3 

Tanglewood  tales.     Hawthorne qj   292   H36t 

The  same j   292  H36W03 

The  same;  illus.  by  Parrish j  292  H36W02 

Tapestry  room.     Alolesworth j   M789ta 

The   same j    M789CU 

Tea.     Browne j   633   B79 

Tecumseh's  young  braves.     Tomlinson j   T597te 

Teddy  and  Carrots.     Otis j  03i4te 

Teddy,  her  book.     Ray j  R24U 

Teddy,  her  daughter.     Ray j  R24ite 

Tell  me  a  story.    Molesworth j  M789t 

Tempest.     Shakespeare j  822.33  Q52 

The  same;  illus.  by  Dulac qj  822.33  Q53 

Tempest,  Story  of  the.     Hoffman j  822.33  H19 

Ten  big  Indians.    Wade j  970.2  Wi  1 

Ten  boys.     Andrews j  904  A56 

Ten  boys  from  history.     Sweetser. j  920  S97 

Ten  common  trees.     Stokes j  582  S87 

Ten  girls  from  history.     Sweetser j  920.7  S97 

Ten  great  events  in  history.     Johonnot j  904  J37t 

Tenderfoot  with  Peary.     Borup j  919.8  B63 

Tent  life  in  Siberia.    Kennan j  915.7  K18 

Tenting  on  the  plains.     Custer j  92  C944Ct 

Tessa,  our  little  Italian  cousin.    Wade j  914.5  W  1  1 

Texan  scouts.     Altshelcr ; j    A466I 

Text-book  of  free-hand  lettering.     I  >aniels j  744.2   I  )22 

Text  books  of  art  education,     v. 1-7.     Froehlich  &  Snow.  .  .  .j  372.5  F96 

Thanksgiving.     Schauffler i   394   S31 

I  hat  football  game.     Finn j   Fsilt 

That's  why  stories.     Bryce j  372.4   B84I 

Their  canoe  trip.     Smith j   S ' > 5 5 1 

Their  city  Christmas.     Brown j   B784I 

Theodora.      Pyle   &    Portor j   P996U 

Things  a  boy  should  know  about  wireless.     St.  John j  (154. 1   Si.} 

Tilings  worth  doing  and  how  to  do  them.     Beard j  700  B3  1 31 

Think  and   thank.      Cooper j   C789I 


456  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Third  reader.     Alexander j  808.8  A37t 

Third  reader.     Arnold  &  Gilbert j  808.8  A75t 

Third  reader.     Van  Sickle  &  Seegmiller j  808.8  Vi7t 

Thirty  more  famous  stories  retold.     Baldwin j  904  Biot 

This  country  of  ours.     Marshall j  973  M41 

This  little  pig,  his  picture  book.     Crane qj  C867it 

Three  baby  bears.     Jewett j  J3i6it 

Three  blind  mice.     Ivimey j   I335C 

Three  colonial  boys.     Tomlinson j   T597t 

Three  fairy  tales.     Ingelow j   l244t 

Three    Gays.      Brown j    B7853t 

Three  Greek  children.     Church j  C468t 

Three  hundred  games  and  pastimes.     Lucas j  790  L96 

Three  hundred  things  a  bright  girl  can  do.     Kelley j  790  K16 

Three  little  daughters  of  the  Revolution.     Perry j   P445t 

Three  little  Marys.     Smith j   S655it 

Three   little   Millers.      Pierson j    P57U 

Three  Margarets.     Richards j   R4iith 

Three  minute  stories.     Richards j   R41  itr 

Three  years  behind  the  guns j  910.4  T42 

Three  years  with  the  poets.     Hazard j  821.08  H37 

Three  young  continentals.     Tomlinson j   T597th 

Through  Europe  with  Napoleon.     Marshall j  92  Ni2gma 

Through    Great   Britain   and    Ireland    with    Cromwell.      Mar- 
shall   j    92    C892ma 

Through  Russian  snows.     Henty j  H456th 

Through  swamp  and  glade.     Munroe j   M968t 

Through  the  farmyard  gate.     Poulsson j  P866t 

Through  the  looking-glass.     Carroll .  . j   C233t 

The  same j    C233a2 

Through  the  year  with  birds  and  poets.    Williams j  81 1.08  W74 

Through  thick  and  thin.     Seawell j  S442t 

Tiger  of  Mysore.     Henty j  H4S6ti 

Timothy's  quest.     Wiggin j   W688t 

Ting-a-ling.      Stockton j    S866t 

Tinkham   brothers'   tide-mill.     Trowbridge j    T773U 

To  the  land  of  the  caribou.     Tomlinson j  T5972t 

To  the  lions.     Church j   C468to 

Toby  Tyler.     Otis j   03i4t 

Tolstoi  for  the  young.    Tolstoi j  Ts88to 

Tom  Brown's  school  days.     Hughes j  H898to 

Tom  Clifton.     Goss j  G698t 

Tom   Paulding.     Matthews j    M479to 

Tom  Sawyer.     Twain j  T8g7t 

Tom  Strong,  boy-captain.     Mason j   M448to 

Tom  Strong,  junior.     Mason j  M448tm 

Tom  Strong,  Washington's  scout.     Mason j   M448t 

Tommy  Remington's  battle.     Stevenson j  S847t 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  457 

Tommy   Tregennis.      Phillips j    P5i4t 

Tommy  Trot's  visit  to  Santa  Claus.     Page j   Pl45tO 

Top  of  the  continent.     Yard j  ~i  i  Y15 

Top  of  the  world  stories.     Poulsson j   P86bto 

Torqua,  Adventures  of.     Holder j   H7i.}a 

Tortoise  and  the  geese.     Bidpai j  398.91   B47 

Tour  of  the  world  in  eighty  days.     Verne j  \'-'7-ta 

Toy-making  at  home.     Adams j  790  A215 

Toy-making  in  school  and  home.     Polkinghorne j  790   I '7'' 

Toy  shop  book.     Harris  &  Waldo j  372.4  H29 

Toys  and  toymaking.    Johnson j  b84  J3b 

Toward  the  rising  sun j  915  T65 

Town  and  city.     Jewett j   bl4  J31 

Track  athletics  in  detail.     Lee j  79b.4  L52 

Trading  and  exploring.     Luther j  910  L98 

Trail  and  camp-fire.     Grinnell  &  Roosevelt j  799  G92 

Trail  of  the  Sandhill  stag.     Seton j   S495t 

Training  of  wild  animals.     Bostock j  599.7  B64 

Tramp  across  the  continent.     Lummis j  917.8  1 .97 

Travels  into  several  remote  nations  of  the  world  by  Lemuel 

Gulliver.     Swift j   827   S97t 

Travels  of  birds.     Chapman j  598.2  C36t 

Travels  of  Marco  Polo.     Polo j  915  P76 

Treasure   finders.     Clay j   973.1    C54 

Treasure  Flower.     Gaines j   Gi39t 

Treasure  island.     Stevenson  .  .• j   S8  (St 

The  snine;  illus.  by  Rhead j  S848t3 

The  same;  illus.  by  Wyeth j   S848t2 

Treasure  of  Mushroom  rock.     Hamp j    1  fjjSt 

Treasure  seekers,  Story  of.     Nesbit j    N239S 

Treasure  ship.     Butterworth j  BoN  (tr 

Treasury  of  folk  tales.     Gask j  398  G21 

Treasury  of  verse  for  little  children.     Edgar j  821.08  E28 

Treasury  of  war  poetry.     2v.     Clarke j  821.08  C53 

Tree  book.     McFee j  582  M  15 

Tree  book.     Rogers qrj  582  R6] 

Trees  in  prose  and  poetry      Stone  <!v  Fickett j  808.8  S87 

I  rei  3,  stars  and  birds.     Moseley j  581.97   M93 

The   trial.      Yonge j    Y29I 

Trinity   bells.      Barr j    B259I 

Tripled  crown j  821.08  T74 

Triumphs  of  science      Lane j  609   1 .23 

Trooper  Ross.     King j    K263I 

Troubadour  tales.     Stein j  S819I 

True  bear  stories.     Miller j  51  ><>.J   M  69 

Tine  bird  stories.     M  iller j  598.2  M'")t 

True  stories  about  horses.     <  .ask j  G214I 

True  stories  1  roin  history  and  biography.    Hawthorne j  >)7  \  \  H36 


458  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

True  story  book.     Lang j  904  L23 

True  story  of  Abraham  Lincoln.     Brooks j  92  L7i5br 

True  story  of  Benjamin  Franklin.     Brooks j  92  F879br 

True  story  of  Christopher  Columbus.     Brooks j  92  C727b 

True  story  of  George  Washington.     Brooks j  92  \V272b 

True  story  of  Lafayette.     Brooks j  92  Li44b 

True  story  of  the  United  States.     Brooks j  973  B77t3 

True  story  of  U.  S.  Grant.    Brooks j  92  G78gbr 

Truth  about  old  King  Cole.     Hill j  821  H55 

Turkish  fairy  tales.     Kunos j  398  K43 

Twas  the  night  before  Christmas.     Moore j  811  M87 

Twelfth  night.     Shakespeare j  822.33  Q7 

The  same;  illus.  by  Robinson qj  822.33  Q72 

Twelve  little  pilgrims.     Scott j  915  S42 

Twelve  naval  captains.     Seawell j  923.5  S44 

Twenty  thousand  leagues  under  the  sea.    Verne j  V274t 

Twice-told  tales.     Hawthorne j  H367t 

Twilight  land.     Pyle j   ?996t 

Two  admirals.     Cooper j    C/87t 

Two  Arrows.     Stoddard j  S86gt 

Two  boys  in  the  tropics.     Figyelmessy j  F47it 

Two  college  girls.     Brown j  B788t 

Two  gentlemen  of  Verona.    Shakespeare j  822.33  Ri 

Two  little  Confederates.     Page j  Pi45t 

Two  prisoners.     Page j   Pi45tw 

Two  spies.     Lossing j  92  H161I 

Two  thousand  years  ago.     Church j  C468tw 

Two  years  before  the  mast.     Dana j  910.4  Di9a 

Two  years  in  the  jungle.     Hornaday j  915.4  H79 

Two  young  patriots.     Tomlinson j   T597tw 

Type  studies  from  the  geography  of  the  United  States.     Mc- 

Murry j   917.3  M2it 

Uarda.      Ebers j    E218U 

Uganda's  white  man  of  work.     Fahs j  92  Mi75f 

Ume  San  in  Japan.    Blaisdell  &  Dalrymple j  915.2  B52 

Una  and  the  Red  Cross  knight.     Smith .  .  .j  821  S74U 

Uncle  Abner's  legacy.     Verrill j  V282U 

Uncle  Remus  and  his  friends.     Harris j  398  H29U 

Uncle  Remus,  his  songs  and  his  sayings.     Harris j  398  H29 

Uncle  Sam's  business.     Marriott j  353  M41 

Uncle  Sam's  modern  miracles.     Du  Puy j  353  D93 

Uncle  Sam's  secrets,     Austin j  353  A93 

Uncle  Sam's  soldiers.     Austin j  355  A93 

Under  colonial  colors.     Tomlinson j  T597U 

Under  Drake's  flag.     Henty j   H456U 

Under  Greek  skies.     Dragoumis j  D783U 

Under  orders.     Munroe j   M968U 

Under  six  flags.     Davis j  976.4  D32 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  459 

Under  sunny  skies.     Lane j  914  L23 

Under  the  cactus  flag.     Smith j  S6551U 

Under  the  Eagle's  wing.     Miller j  M695U 

Under  the  liberty  tree.    Otis j  O314U 

Under  the  lilacs.     Alcott j  A355U 

Under  the  red  robe.     Weyman j  \V586u 

Under  the  window.     Greenaway j  82 1   G83U 

Under  Wellington's  command.     Henty j   H456un 

Undine.     La  Motte-Fouque qj   L194U4 

The  same;  ed.  by  MacGregor j  L194112 

Ungava  Bob.     Wallace j  W175U 

United  States  navy j  359  U25 

Unknown  to  history.     Yonge j   Y29U 

Unmannerly  tiger.     Grif fis j  398  G894U 

Unofficial  prefect.     Dudley j   D872U 

Up  and  down  the  brooks.     Bamford j  595.7  B219 

Up  from  slavery.     Washington j  92  W2722 

Us.      Molesworth j    M780U2 

Vasco,  our  little  Panama  cousin.     Pike j  918.6  P58 

Verse  and  prose  for  beginners  in  reading.     Scudder j  821.08  S43 

Vicar   of  Wakefield.      Goldsmith j   G588V 

Ttie  same;  illus  by  Sullivan qj  G588V2 

Vieilles  chansons  pour  les  cceurs  sensibles qj  784.8  V31 

Vieilles  chansons  pour  les  petits  enfants.     Widor j  784.8  W67 

Viking  Bodleys.     Scudder j  914.8  S43 

Viking  tales.     Hall j  839.6  H17 

Viking  tales  of  the  North.     Anderson j  839.6  A54 

Violet  fairy  book.     Lang j  398  L23V 

Virginia  cavalier.     Seawell j   S442V 

Vision  of  Don  Roderick.     Scott j  821  S43m2 

Visit  to  a  coal  mine.     Cooke j  622.33  C77 

Visit  to  a  cotton  mill.     Cooke j  677.1  C77 

Visit  to  a  woollen  mill.     Cooke j  677.2  C77 

Voyages  and  adventures  of  Vasco  da  Gama.    Towle j  92  G161I 

W.  V.'s  golden  legend.     Canton j  398.2  C17C 

Wagner  opera  stories.     Barber j  782.2  B23 

Wagner  story  book.     Frost j  7S2.2  F96 

Wagner's  heroes.     Maud j  7X2.2  M48 

Wagner's  heroines.      Maud j   782.2   M481W 

Walks  and  talks  in  the  geological  field.    Winchell j  550  W77W 

Wallace.     Abbott j    Ai^jwa 

Wampum  belt.     Butterworth i    B984.W 

Wanolasset,  the-little-one-who-laughs.     Plympton i   1*731  w 

War  inventions.     Gibson j  355  G36 

War  of  i8i2-'i5.     Johnson j  1)73.5  J36 

War  of  independence.     Fiske j  973.3  F54 

War  with  Mexico.     Ladd j  973.6   L13 

Was  Marilenchen  erlebtel    Olfers q  j  83]  ( >232w 


46o  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Was  willst  du  werden?     Lohmeyer qj  831  L78W 

Washington's  birthday.     Schauffler j  92  W272SC 

Washington's  young  aids.     Tomlinson j  T597W 

Watch  fires  of  '76.     Drake j  973.3  D78 

Watcher  in  the  woods.     Sharp j   590.4  S53 

Watchers  of  the  camp-fire.     Roberts j  R536W 

Water-babies.     Kingsley j   K272W 

The  same;  illus.  by  Goble j  K272W3 

The  same;  illus.  by  Robinson j  K272W4 

The  same;  illus.  by  Smith qj  K272W5 

Water-witch.     Cooper j  C787W 

Water  wonders  every  child  should  know.     Thompson j  551.57  T38 

Waverley.     Scott j  S431W3 

Ways  of  the  six-footed.     Comstock j  595.7  C738 

Wayside  flowers  of  summer.     Keeler j  580  K15W 

We  and  the  world.     Ewing j  E975W 

We  girls.     Whitney j   W651W 

Wealth  of  the  world's  waste  places.     Gilson j  910  G42 

Weapons  of  modern  warfare j  355  W35 

Weatherby's  inning.     Barbour j   B235W 

Wells  brothers.     Adams j  A211W 

Welsh  fairy  book.     Thomas j  398  T37 

Wept  of  Wish-ton-wish.     Cooper j  C787we 

West  Point  cadet.     Malone j  M294we 

West  Point  yearling.     Malone j  M294W 

Western  frontier  stories j  W567 

Westward  ho!     Kingsley j  K272we 

Westward  movement.     Barstow j  978  B27 

Whaling  and  fishing.     Nordhoff j  910.4  N43W 

What  a  girl  can  make  and  do.     Beard j  790  B343W 

What  happened  to  Inger  Johanne.     Zwilgmeyer j  Z94W 

What  Katy  did.     Coolidge j   C783wha 

What  Katy  did  at  school.    Coolidge j  C783W 

What  Katy  did  next.     Coolidge j   C783wh 

What  men  live  by.     Tolstoi j  T588W 

What  shall  we  do  now?     Lucas j  790  L96 

What  to  do  and  how  to  do  it.     Beard j  790  B34W 

What  to  do  for  Uncle  Sam.     Bailey j  172  B15 

What  to  draw  and  how  to  draw  it.     Lutz j  741  L98 

Wheat  industry.     Bengtson  &  Griffith j  633.11   B43 

When  Boston  braved  the  king.     Barton j  B283W 

When  Dewey  came  to  Manila.     Otis j  03i4wn 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Belgium.     Jonckheere j  914.93  J39 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  China.     Lee j  915. 1  L52 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Greece.     Demetrios j  92  D4i9d 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Japan.    Shioya j  915.2  S55 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Roumania.     Van  Teslaar j  914.98  V19 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Russia.     Debogoril-Mokrievich j  914.7  D35 


CHILDREN'S  BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  461 

When  I  was  a  girl  in  Holland.     De  Groot j  914.92  D38 

When  I  was  a  girl  in  Italy.     Ambrosi j  9'4-5  A49 

When  I  was  your  age.     Richards j  92  R411 

Winn  knights  were  bold.    Tappan j  940.1  T19 

When  life  is  young.     Dodge j  811  D67 

When   Max  came.      Brown j    B7852W 

When  Molly  was  six.    White j  \V632w 

When  mother  lets  us  act.     Perry j  793.1    P44 

When  mother  lets  us  cook.    Johnson j  641  J35 

When  mother  lets  us  cut  out  pictures.     Boyd j  790  B66 

When  mother  lets  us  garden.     Duncan j  716  D8gw 

When  mother  lets  us  give  a  party.     Yale j  790  V  13 

When  mother  lets  us  keep  pets.    Johnson j  636  J 35 

When  mother  lets  us  make  candy.     Bache j  642  B  12 

When  mother  lets  us  make  gifts.     Grubb j  790  ( l<>4 

When  mother  lets  us  make  paper  box  furniture.     Rich j  790  R39 

When  mother  lets  us  play.    Keyes j  703  K23 

When  mother  lets  us  sew.     Ralston j  646  R17 

When  Sarah  saved  the  day.     Singmaster j  S617W 

When  Sarah  went  to  school.     Singmaster j   S6l7wh 

When  the  King  came.     Hodges j  22,2  H66 

When  they  were  children.     Steedman j  920  S81 

Where  love  is.  there  God  is  also.     Tolstoi j  Ts88wh 

Where  the  wind  blows.     Pyle qj  3  jX   l'<nw 

White   blanket.      Browne j    B798W 

White  cave.     Stoddard j  S869W 

White   conquerors.     Munroe j    M968W 

White  duckling.     Dole j  398  D69 

White  mail.     Warman j  W232W 

Whole  history  of  grandfather's  chair.     Hawthorne j  974.4    H36g 

Who's  who  in  America rj  020  W66 

Why  the  chimes  rang.     Alden j     \35Xw2 

Why  we  are  at  war.     Wilson i  973.9132  U25 

Wide  awake  first  reader.     Murray j  372.4  Mojw 

Wide  awake  girls.     Ellis i    E533W 

Wide  awake  girls  at  college.     Ellis j   E533C 

Wide  awake  girls  in  Winsted.      Ellis j   ES33wi 

Wide  awake  primer.     Murray j  372.1  M07 

Wide  awake  second  reader.      \l  urray j   372.4   MojuJ 

Wide  awake  third  reader.     Murray j  372..}  M97W3 

Wide   world j  QIO   W67 

Widow  O'Callaghan's  boys.     Zollinger j  7.~~w 

Wie  das  samenkorn  zu  brot  wird.     Lang i  831   1 .23 

Wie's  im  hause  geht.    Lechler j  833  I  \8 

Wie's  im  hause  geht  nach  dem  alphabet.     Pletsch qj  831    P69W 

Wigwam  evenings.     Eastman i  398.097  E18 

Wigwam    stories.      Judd j    398.O97    1  \>> 

Wild  animal  play  for  children.    Set  on j  7113.1  S49 


462  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Wild  animals  at  home.     Seton j  591.5  S49 

Wild  animals  I  have  known.     Seton j  S495W 

Wild  flowers  every  child  should  know.       Stack j  580  S77 

Wild  life  in  woods  and  fields.     Buckley j  590.4  B85 

Wild  life  under  the  equator.    Du  Chaillu. j  916.7  D86w 

Wild  neighbors.     Ingersoll j  596  I24 

Wild  plants  needing  protection.     Britton j  580  B75 

Wilderness  castaways.     Wallace j  W175W 

Wilderness  hunter.     Roosevelt j  799  R68w 

Wilderness  pets  at  Camp  Buckshaw.     Breck j  590.4  B72 

Wilhelmina,  our  little  Dutch  cousin.     McManus j  914.92  M21 

Will  o'  the  wasps.     Morley j  595.79  M91W 

William  Henry  and  his  friends.     Diaz j  D539W 

William  Henry  letters.     Diaz j   D539wi 

Windchen.     Olfers j   831    O232 

Wing-and-wing.     Cooper j    C787wi 

Winners  in  life's  race.     Buckley j  596  B85 

Winning  his  way.     Coffin j  C662W 

Winning  his  way  to  West  Point.    Malone j  M294wi 

Winning  hit.     Williams j    W745W 

Winning  out.     Marden j  170  M37W 

Winter.     Sharp j   590.4  S53W 

Winter's  tale.     Shakespeare j  822.33  R3 

Wireless  man.     Collins j  654.1    C71 

With  Azir  Girges  in  Egypt.     Perry j  916.2  P44 

With  Give  in  India.     Henty j  H456W 

With  Cochrane  the  Dauntless.     Henty j  H456WC 

With  Crockett  and  Bowie.     Munroe j  M968wi 

With  Evans  to  the  Pacific.     Codd j  359  C65 

With  Frederick  the  Great.     Henty j  H456wf 

With  Kitchener  in  the  Soudan.     Henty j  H456wk 

With  Lafayette  at  Yorktown.     Otis j   O314W 

With  Moore  at  Corunna.     Henty j  H456WIT1 

With  spurs  of  gold.     Greene  &  Kirk j  940.4  G83 

With  the  Black  Prince.     Stoddard j  S869wit 

With  the  Indians  in  the  Rockies.    Schultz j  970.1  S38 

With  the  king  at  Oxford.     Church j  C468W 

With  the  men  who  do  things.     Bond j  620  B62 

With  trumpet  and  drum.     Field j  811  F45W 

With  Wolfe  in  Canada.     Henty j  H456wi 

Wolf  hunters.     Peck j  917.8  P36 

Wolf's  head.     Gilliat j   G415W 

Won  by  the  sword.     Henty j   H456WO 

Wonder-book.     Hawthorne j  292  H36WO 

The  same j  292  H36W03 

The  same;  illus.  by  Parrish j  292  H36W02 

Wonder-book  of  beasts.    Darton j  398  D26W 

Wonder-book  of  horses.     Baldwin j  398  Biqw 


CHILDREN'S   BOOKS— TITLE  LIST  463 

Wonder  book  of  old  romance.     Darton j  398.2  D26 

Wonder  book  of  volcanoes  and  earthquakes.     Houston... j  551,21  H83 

Wonder  clock.     Pyle qj   P996W 

Wonder  garden.     Olcott j   398  O23W 

Wonder  of  war  in  the  air.     Rolt-Wheeler j   R656WO 

Wonder  of  war  on  land.     Rolt-Wheeler j  R656W 

Wonder   stories.      Andersen j    A544W 

Wonder  stories  from  the  Mabinogion ■ j  398.25  Mi  iw 

Wonder  tales  from  Wagner.     Chapin j  782.2  C36W 

Wonder  voyages,  Book  of.     Jacobs j  398.2  J 13 

Wonderful  adventures  of  Nils.     Lagcrlof j  L152W 

The  same;  illus.  by  Frye j  L152W2 

Wonderful  story  of  Joan  of  Arc.     Stevens j  92  J329S 

Wonders  of  earth,  sea  and  sky.     Holden j  504  H71W 

Wonders  of  modern  mechanism.     Cochrane j  604  C64 

Wonders  of  science.     Tappan j  504  T19W 

Wonders  of  the  zoo.     Gask j  590.7  G21 

Woodstock.     Scott j   S431  wo 

Woodwork  for  secondary  schools.     Griffith j  684  G89W 

Woodworking.     Murray j  684  M97 

Woodworking  for  beginners.     Wheeler j  684  W61 

Work  and  play  for  little  girls.     Levi j  790  L66 

Work  that  is  play.     Gardner j  372.4  G18 

Working  in  metals.     Sleffel j  739  S63 

The  world.     Moncrieff j  910  M8iw 

World  almanac  and  encyclopedia rj  317.3  W89 

World  book,     iov rj  031  \V89a 

World  of  the  great  forest.     Du  Chaillu j  591.5  D86 

World  war.     Benezet j   940.911    B43 

World's  story.     14V.     Tappan j  909  T19 

Wouldbegoods.     Nesbit j   N239W 

Wreck  of  the  Red  Bird.     Eggleston j  K3571  w 

Willi  the   Saxon.     Henty j    H456WU 

Wyandotte.     Cooper j    C7S7WV 

Yankee  ships  and  Yankee  sailors.     Barnes j  B256 1  y 

Ye  three  blind  mice    I  vimey j  [335c 

Year's  festivals.     Patten j  304  P31 

Yellow  fairy  book.     Lang j  398   L23.V 

Yellow  Star.     Eastman j    El85y 

A  York  and  a  Lancaster  Rose.     Keary j   K  1 5 1  \- 

You  arc  the  hope  of  the  world !     Hagedorn j   172   H13 

Young  Alaskans.     Hough j    H834V 

Young    American.      JudsOD j    ?,.\-!.~    J40a 

Young  Americans  in  the  British  Isles.    Tomlinson j  914.2  T59 

Young  barbarians.     Watson j  W321V 

Young  Carthaginian.     Henty j   H4563 

Young  citizen.     Dole j   172   D6gy 

Young  citizen's  reader.     Keinsch i  353   R32 


464  CARNEGIE  LIBRARY  OF  PITTSBURGH 

Young  folks'  book  of  American  explorers.     Higginson j  973.1  H53 

Young  folks'  book  of  etiquette.     Griffin j  395  G89 

Young  folks'  book  of  poetry.     Campbell j  821.08  C15 

Young  folk's  cyclopaedia  of  common  things.     Champlin.  . .  r j  031  C35a2 
Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  games  and  sports.     Champlin  & 

Bostwick rj  790  C35 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  literature  and  art.     Champlin..  .rj  803  C35 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  natural  history.     Champlin rj  570.3  C35 

Young  folks'  cyclopaedia  of  persons  and  places.    Champlin  . .  rj  903  C35y2 

Young  folks'  history  of  the  United  States.    Higginson j  973  H53 

Young  ice  whalers.     Packard j  Pi26y 

Young  Lucretia.     Wilkins j  \V728y 

Young  Macedonian.     Church j    C468y 

Young  people's  history  of  Holland.     Griffis j  949.2  G89 

Young  section-hand.     Stevenson j   S847yo 

Young  supercargo.     Drysdale j  D8s3y 

Young  surveyor.     Trowbridge j  T773y 

Young  trailers.     Altsheler j   A466y 

Young  train  dispatcher.     Stevenson j  S847y 

Yule-tide  in  many  lands.     Pringle  &  Urann j  394  P95 


' 


Errata 

Page 

98     Curtis,  Anna  Chandler.    Call  number  j  904  C93  should  read  Chand- 
ler, Anna  Curtis.    Call  number  j  904  C36. 

258     Neison,  Adrian.    Call  number  j  669.1  N2ip  should  read  j  699.1  X_>ip. 


*N 


