OCTOBER,  1890. 


TW  CENTURY 


^ONTH  Vfi 


MAGAZINE 


» 


s*i 


« 


i»rmMiiunrti»«fti»m"tii- 


IHflJft 


y 


/; 


' j(ffl\  ~-:  .^2  EJ"11*^  ""'f"^*  """"^^.iL,, 

feECENTURY-CO*UNION^aUARE-NEv^^RK 
IrnFlSHERUNViy.PATERNOiTER^QuluoNPQlt 


[The  entire  contents  of  this  Magazine  are  covered  by  the  general  copyright,  and  articles  must  not  be  reprinted  without  special  PermisSlon. ] 

THE    CENTURY    MAGAZINE 

CONTENTS    FOR    OCTOBER,    1890. 

Portrait  of  Joseph  Jefferson  .   . Frontispiece 

Out-of-the-Ways  in  High  Savoy Edward  Eggleston 80J 

Pictures  by  Joseph  Pennell.  °l 

The  Autobiography  of  Joseph  Jefferson.    Conclusion  .    .    .  Joseph  Jefferson 81 J 

Pictures  by  the  author,  Otto  H.  Bacher,  and  from  photographs. 

Why  Patronage  in  Office  is  Un-American Henry  Cabot  Lodge 837 

Friend  Olivia.    Conclusion . - ;  Amelia  E%  Barr  g44 

On  Meteorites  and  the  History  of  Stellar  Systems     .    .  G.  H  Darwin 8t8 

Picture  from  a  celestial  photograph.  j 

An  Artist's  Letters  from  Japan John  La  Farge 866\ 

Pictures  by  the  author. 

The  Women  of  the   French   Salons.     VI.    The   Salons  of)   A     ,.    „       %jr 

the  Eighteenth  Century \  Amelia  Gere  Mason     .    .    .    .  ■ ,    878 

Pictures  by  George  Wharton  Edwards,  and  from  photographs. 

How  Jerry   Bought  Malviny Virginia  Frazer  Boyle  .    ...        802 

Pictures  by  E.  W.  Kemble.  '  y 

Prehistoric  Cave-Dwellings .    .    .    .  F.  T.  Bickford 896 

Pictures  by  O.  Toaspern,  John  A.  Fraser,  D.  B.  Keeler,  A.  Brennan,  A.  B.  Davies,  and  V.  Perard. 

In  Dark  New  England  Days  ...............  Sarah  Orne  Jewett on 

Pictures  by  E.  W.  Kemble. 

The  Empty  Hour. .    .  Julie  M.  Lippmann 920 

Woman  in  American  Literature Helen  Gray  Cone     .  Q2I 

01101 Louise  Imogen  Guiney     ...  930 

A  Hard  Road  to  Travel  out  of  Dixie W.  H.  Shelton 93I 

Pictures  by  the  author,  and  from  photographs. 

TOPICS    OF    THE    TIME, 

Partisan  Recognition  of  the  Independent  Voter .........  9-0 

A  Test  of  Good  Citizenship •    •    •    •    953 

The  Merit  System  in  the  Fifty-first  Congress 953 

OPEN  LETTERS. 

The   Merit  Svstem  5  ^v^  Service  Commissioner         ) 

J  I      Hugh  S.  Thompson .    .    <    ,   f   954 

Does  Vivisection  Help? Edward Berdoe -956 

An  Anecdote  of  Sheridan Gen.  Abner  Doubleday    ....    958 

McClellan's  Candidacy  with  the  Army  .  . Earl  M.  Rogers .    959 

BRIC-A-BRAC, 

To  my  Lost  Luray . .  John  Eliot  Bowen 959 

Mammy's  Churning  Song .  Edward  A.  Oldham    ...  Q6o 

Picture  by  E.  W.  Kemble.  * 

The  wood-engravings  in  this  number  are  by  G.  Kruell,  E.  H.  De  L'Orme,  H.  Davidson,  R.  C.  Collins,  T.  W  Evans  E 
wer?fn£,  P-  Anlen\]'J'JUUZlinZ>  T'  A-  Butler>  T'  Johnson,  R.  G.  Tietze,  J.  H.  E.  Whitney,  H.  Velten,  Henry  Marsh 
W.  B.  Closson,  R.  A.  Muller,  J.  P.  Davis,  C.  A.  Powell,  H.  E.  Sylvester,  C.  Schwartzburger,  T    Schussler,  G    P    Barde 


too  lZrirao4aTJth2^iV?Va"±;  35  cents  a  number  Bound  volumes  (containing  the  numbers  for  six  months)  in  old  gold  or  green  cloth,  gilt 
may  remit  i S'i,  P  O  n  fl  P'  $2-75'  3^  Sa™  u  haIf"ruf  ia>  S^t  toP>  $4-.oo.  Booksellers  and  Postmasters  receive  subscriptions  Subscribers 
may  remit  to  u»  in  P.  O.  or  express  money  orders,  or  in  bank  checks,  drafts,  or  registered  letters.     Money  in  letters  is  at  sender's  risk 

(six  numbenrsU)mbhalf  mLtfor^T^ivl  '*"  g°°?  Cu°nftion>  for  corresponding  bound  volumes  in  gold  cloth,  with  gilt  top.  for  $,  .00  per  volume 
umes  Scents  A  number,  In  Lhn  '^  .  c1?a\  PIam,t0?'  7.5  cents  each ;  subscribers  paying  charges  both  ways.  Postage  on  The  Century  vol- 
trimmed  bvmarhi,l     CuT  f     u^  Sh£M  ^  marked  Wlth  OWner  S  name-      We  can>wt  bind  or  ^change  copies  the  edges  of  which  have  been 

trimmed  oy  machine.    Cloth  covers  for  binding  The  Century,  50  cents.     Volumes  end  with  April  and  October  numbers.  J 

ROSWELL  SMITH,  Prest. 

wlf^l^Mlk^'s^35-        ™E  CENTUBY  C0-  33  East  17th  Street  (Unio«  Square),  New  York,  N.  T. 


TH  E  -  ANNOU  NCEMENTS  *  OF 

$The-Century-0>®  . 


vvv         yyy         i»v  vv> 


A   POINT    ABOUT    "LACE." 


SOMETIMES  one  can  get  a  better  idea 
of  the  use  and  value  of  a  reference 
book  from  a  single  example  of  a  term 
denned  in  it  than  from  a  long  description 
of  the  whole 
work.  On  this 
page  are  the 


Y-1  »•>•»•:» 


W$i 


Wi 


illustrations 
which  accom- 
pany "  The 
Century  Dic- 
tionary's" de- 
finition of  the 
word  "  lace," 
— from  which 
one  learns 
that  in  old 
times  it  was 
spelled  las 
and  laas.  that 


Alengori  Lace  {Point  d'Alengon). 

it  comes  from  the  Old  French  las,  a  noose 
or  snare,  derived  from  the  Latin  laqiieus, 
a  noose,  which,  in  turn,  is  perhaps  from 
lacere,  to  allure.  After  the  various  defini- 
tions, quotations,  etc.,  come  brief  descrip- 
tions of  different  kinds  of  lace,  and  it  is  to 
this  that  we  wish  to  call  especial  attention, 
for  it  is  the  feature  which  makes  "  The 
Century  Dictionary  "  of  the  greatest  pos- 
sible use  in  the 
home.  What  is 
Buckingham  lace  ? 
wherein  does  Alen- 
gon  differ  from 
Antwerp  ?  what  is 
seami?ig-lace  ? 

"  The  Century  " 
defines  the  follow- 


ing  different  kinds 

of  lace: 

Albisola 

Aurillac 

Alencon 

Auvergne 

Antwerp 

Ave  Maria 

Application- 

Baby 

Applique 

Basket- 

Argentan 

Bayeux 

Arras 

Beaded 

*  Aryent.in  Lace. 


*  These  illustrations  are 
seen  to  much  better  effect 
printed  on  the  beautifully 
finished  paper  of  the  Dic- 
tionary. 


<S,. 


Beggar's 
Biliment 
Bisetle 
Bobbin- 
Bobbin-net 
Bone  point- 
Border 

Bourg-Argental 
Bride- 
Broad 
Brussels 
Buckingham 
Cadiz 
Carnival 
Cartisane 
Caterpillar  point- 
Chain- 
Chantilly 
Chenille 
Cluny 
Cordover 
Cork 
Cretan 
Crewel 
Crochet 
Crown 


*  Brussels  Lace. 

Dalecarlian 
Damascene 
Darned 
Devonshire 
Diamond 
Dieppe 

Dresden  point- 
Duchesse 
Dunkirk 
Dutch 
Ecru 

English  point- 
False  Valenciennes 
Flat  point- 
Flemish  point- 
Fuseau 
Genoa 
Gold 

Grammont 
Gueuse 
Henriquez 
Hollie-point 
Honiton 
Imitation 
Jesuit 
Knotted 


Lille 
Limerick 
Macklin 
Mechlin 
Mignonette 
Mirecourt 
Needle-point 
Oyah 

Parchment- 
Pitlow- 
Plaited 
Point- 
Pot- 

Powdered 
Saxony 
Seaming- 
Silver 
Spanish 
Statute 
Tambour- 
Tape 
Thread 
Torchon 
Trally 

Valenciennes 
Ypres 


SSSSEais* 


Ml 


m 


Looking  over  this  list  one  notices  an 
occasional  hyphen.  That  is  another 
point  about  "The  Century  Dictionary" 
—  if  one  wishes  to  know  whether  to 
use  a  hyphen  or  not  in  writing  chain- 
lace  or  thread  lace  "The  Century  Dic- 
tionary "  will 
give  the  in- 
formation. 

Should  one 
write   foretop-  I    ■■H 
mast  or  fore-  |P^H 
top     mast     or 
fore-topmast  or 
foretopmast  ? 

The  uniform- 
ity observed  in 
the  use  of  the 
hyphen  has  al- 
ready made  "  The  Century  Dictionary  ' 
a    standard    in    many    printing    offices. 

The  descriptive  pamphlet  with   speci- 
men pages  costs  five  two-cent  stamps. 


\Smi 


$M 


lb 

W 


Mechlin  Lace. 


The-Centurv-Co-33-East-17^Street-NewYork^ 


Oct.  »0O. 


■iur— m^cnt — mPL_3uuf     *w    »it     m     tw     mnr     irvn      B5       SB      *w       ■  »»       «"      «v»      *«if      *™      "*= 


THE   CENTURY   FOR   1890-91. 

THE    20TH    ANNIVERSARY    OF    THE    FOUNDING    OF    THE    MAGAZINE. 


DgwoooofloooooooooooogHE  twentieth  anniver- 
lT^^-2-Tr*  I  sary  of  The  Century, 
8  and  the  beginning  of 
§  its  forty  -first  half-year- 
8  ly  volume,  is  cele- 
8    brated  by  the  publica- 

S^ry^^^TiA  §  ti°n  °f  tne  next  (No- 
8000000000000000000008  vember)  number.  The 
date  will  be  marked  by  an  issue  of  special 
interest,  and  the  twenty-first  year  of  the 
magazine  will  contain  a  wealth  and  variety 
of  literary  and  artistic  material  that  can 
not  be  here  fully  detailed,  but  which  is 
fairly  indicated  by  the  announcements 
that  follow : 

THE    GOLD    HUNTERS    OF    CALI- 
FORNIA. 

The  Century  series  of  separate  illus- 
trated papers  on  the  romantic  movement 
to  California  in  1849  and  the  events  which 
preceded  it  begins  in  the  November  num- 
ber, with  a  narrative,  by  General  John 
Bidwell,  of  the  experiences  of  "  The 
First  Emigrant  Train  to  California." 
General  Bidwell  gives  a  graphic  account 
of  the  organization  of  this  first  movement 
to  California,  and  of  the  toils,  perils,  and 
mishaps  of  the  journey.  The  article  will 
be  capably  and  picturesquely  illustrated 
by  Remington  and  Fenn,  and  by  unpub- 
lished drawings  by  the  late  Charles  Nahl, 
well  known  in  California  as 
an  artist  of  the  gold-hunting 
period. 

Among  other  articles  which 
will  follow,  as  nearly  as  pos- 
sible in  chronological  order, 
besides  the  contributions  of 
General  and  Mrs.  Fremont 
are  "  California  before  the 
Gold  Discovery,"  a  paper  of 
unique  interest  by  General 
Bidwell,  who  was  for  some 
years  at  Sutter's  Fort,  the 
headquarters  of  Americans; 
an   historical  sketch  of  the 

Missions  by  John  T.  Doyle,  A  Tibetan  g°d- 

Esq.,  illustrated  by  Fenn;  a  description  of 
"  Ranch  and  Mission  Life  before  the  Gold 
Disco-very,"  by  Miss  Guadaloupe  Vallejo, 
niece  of  General  Vallejo,  reflecting  the  life 
of  the  Spanish   Californian;   a  historical 


sketch  of  the  Discovery  of  Gold,  by  Mr. 
John  S.  Hittell,  the  California  historian  — 
including  memoranda  by  surviving  mem- 
bers of  Marshall's  party ;  narratives  of  the 
trip  to  California  by  the  different  routes, 
including  those  by  the  way  of  Cape  Horn, 
by  Panama,  by  Nicaragua,  by  Vera  Cruz 
and  San  Bias,  and  by  the  Gila  River;  im- 
portant and  graphic  accounts  of  Life  in 
the  Mines,  The  Vigilance  Committees  (by 
the  chairman  of  both  committees,  Wm. 
T.  Coleman,  Esq.);  A  Woman's  Pioneer 
Experiences  (by  a  survivor  of  the  ill-fated 
Donner  party) ;  besides  interesting  shorter 
special  memoranda  in  a  new  temporary 
department  entitled  "  Californiana." 

AN    AMERICAN    IN    TIBET. 

There  is  no  part  of  the  world  of  equal 
civilization  of  which    so  little  has  been 
divulged   as   Tibet,  — separated   as    it    is 
from  India  and  China  by  the  loftiest  range 
of  mountains  in  the  world,  and  from  Mon- 
golia by  high  and  uninhabitable  steppes. 
A  well-qualified  and  adventurous  Ameri- 
can traveler,  Mr.  W.  Woodville  Rockhill, 
formerly  of  the  American  diplomatic  ser- 
vice, has  recently  returned  from  a  long, 
perilous,  and  successful  journey  through 
this  the  unknown  heart  of  Asia,  and  will 
give  in   a  series  of  illustrated  papers  in 
The  Century  the  results  of  his  travels 
and  observations.  For 
seven  hundred  miles  of 
Mr.  RockhilPs  journey 
he  passed   through    a 
country  where  no  white 
man  had  ever  set  foot. 
It  was,  of  course,  nec- 
essary that  the  author 
should   travel  in  dis- 
guise.    To  show  what 
dangers  encompass  the 
path  of  the  foreigner 
we    quote    from    the 
author's  account : 


"  In  Tibet  nearly  every 
crime  is  punished  by 
the  imposition  of  a  fine,  and  murder  is  by  no 
means  an  expensive  luxury.  The  sum  varies  ac- 
cording to  the  social  standing  of  the  victim,  120 
bricks  of  tea  (worth  a  rupee  a  brick)  for  one  of 
the  upper  ten  .  .  .  and  so  on  down  to  two 
or  three  for  a  pauper  or  a  wandering  foreigner,  as 
Lieutenant  Lu  Ming-Yangkindlyinformed  me." 


The-Century*Co~33HEast-  I7T?STREET4slEw\bRK 


'W  "    vo 


THE    CENTURY  FOR   1890-91— Continued. 


Monsignor  Felix  Birt,  Vicar-Apostolic 
of  Tibet,  recently  wrote  to  Mr.  Rockhill, 
informing  him  of  the  imprisonment  of 
certain  of  his  servants,  and  of  the  fact  that 
the  explorer  himself  would  have  been 
killed  if  he  had  lingered  at  Tchegundo. 
The  Bishop  adds : 

"  Since  Messrs.  Hue  and  Gabet's  journey  to 
L'Hassa  in  1845,  your  exploring  expedition, 
I  do  not  hesitate  to  say,  has  been  the  most 
difficult  and  the  most  important  executed  in 
Asia  in  the  course  of  this  century  —  the  most 
difficult  and  the  most  dangerous,  I  say,  con- 
sidering that  you  have  traveled  these  im- 
mense steppes,  that  land  of  grass,  without 
an  escort,  only  accompanied  by  a  few  ser- 
vants, living  on  tsamba,  the  meal  of  roasted 
barley  and  rancid  butter,  sleeping  in  the 
open  air,  unable  to  lay  in  a  fresh  stock  of 
provisions  in  those  desert  regions,  and 
dreading  the  habitations  of  man  more  than 
the  solitude.  .  .  .  You  have  opened  up 
the  road,  you  have  mapped  out  a  route,  a 
route  of  prime  importance  for  commerce, 
and  of  political  and  civilizing  influence  for 
Tibet.  .  .  .  Your  successful  journey 
has  opened  up  this  fine  country,  teeming 
with  natural  riches  which  are  lying  forgotten 
and  unutilized.  May  commercial  associa- 
tions and  learned  societies  turn  their  atten- 
tion to  the  people  of  Tibet,  who  have  so 
long  been  forgotten  and  so  vigorously  been 
excluded  from  civilization  by  the  tyranni- 
cal yoke  of  the  Lamas." 

Curious  and  rare  illustrations  have  been 
made  from  photographs,  objects  brought 
from  the  country  by  Mr.  Rockhill,  and 
sketches  made  by  the  author. 

PERSONAL    TRAITS    OF    LINCOLN. 

Since  completing  their  elaborate  his- 
torical work  on  Abraham  Lincoln,  Messrs. 
Nicolay  and  Hay  have  undertaken  to 
write  for  The  Century  several  papers  of 
a  more  intimate  character  on  Lincoln's 
Personal  Traits.  These  papers  will 
differ  from  the  Life  in  being  signed  by 
their  respective  authors.  They  will  be 
supplemented  by  a  remarkable  posthu- 
mous essay  on  Lincoln  by  Horace 
Greeley,  written  in  the  form  of  a  lec- 
ture, which,  as  is  believed,  was  not  only 
never  published,  but  was  never  even  de- 
livered. This  estimate  of  Lincoln,  by 
one  whose  relations  to  the  President  were 
so  important,  will  be  read  with  peculiar 
interest  by  those  who  have  followed  the 
history  of  these  relations  as  set  forth  in 
the  Life  by  Nicolay  and  Hay. 

ADVENTURES    OF    WAR    PRISONERS. 

A  phase  of  war  literature  interesting  to 
everybody,  because  it  is  enlivened   with 


adventure  and  tinged  with  the  personal 
heroism  that  colors  all  romance,  is  that 
which  chronicles  the  experiences  and 
escapes  of  war  prisoners.  During  the 
civil  war  captives,  in  num- 
bers aggregating  great  ar- 
mies, were  held  on  each  side 
in  vast  prison  inclosures.  Es- 
capes were  numerous  from 
all  of  the  "  camps,"  and  some 
of  the  journeys  through  the 
enemy's  country  to  friendly 
lines  were  wonderful  for  the 
endurance  and  daring  of  the 
fugitives.  From  time  to  time 
the  series  begun  in  the  July  and  August 
Century  with  Dr.  T.  H.  Mann's  articles 
on  "  A  Yankee  in  Andersonville,"  and 
carried  on  in  the  present  number  with 
Lieutenant  Shelton's  "  A  Hard  Road  to 
Travel  out  of  Dixie,"  will  be  continued 
with  papers  by  Confederate,  as  well  as 
Union  officers,  who  had  thrilling  adven- 
tures as  prisoners  of  war. 

MINISTER    DALLAS    AT    THE    COURT 
OF    THE    CZAR    NICHOLAS. 

Readers  of  The  Century  will  be 
offered  during  the  coming  year  passages 
from  the  diaries  of  George  M.  Dallas,  a 
charming  writer,  who  in  his  time  was  a 
great  force  in  public  affairs  and  an  aspir- 
ant for  the  presidency.  Under  Polk  he 
was  vice-president  of  the  United  States ; 
previous  to  which  he  had  been  United 
States  senator,  and  under  Van  Buren, 
minister  to  Russia.  In  two  or  three  illus- 
trated papers  will  be  given  the  most  inter- 
esting parts  of  his  diary  during  his  mission 
to  the  Russian  capital,  wThere  he  was 
treated  with  distinction  by  the  Czar 
Nicholas,  and  where  he  saw  much  of  the 
social  life  of  St.  Petersburg.  It  was  dur- 
ing his  sojourn  that  the  winter  palace 
was  burned.  When  his  political  rival, 
Buchanan,  was  elected  president,  Mr. 
Dallas  accepted  the  mission  to  the  Court 
of  St.  James,  where  he  remained  until  the 
outbreak  of  the  civil  war, 

INDIAN    FIGHTS    AND    FIGHTERS. 

Of  the  four  generals  who,  since  the 
civil  war,-  have  gained  special  renown 
as  Indian  fighters  —  Custer,  Mackenzie, 
Crook,  and  Miles — the  three  first  men- 


THE-CENTURY-CO-33^EAST*I7^STREET-NEW\bRK 


liv      vxv      ■jum      vhj     in      m      vw      i-w      vvv 


w«       yw._    M-wv       «n« — *m     -meg: 


hcl-Joo-Sb 


Zff#    CENTURY  FOR   1890-91  —  Continued. 


tioned  have  passed  away.  And  as  they 
and  the  only  survivor  did  their  work  so 
well  that  Indian  campaigns  are  virtually 
at  an  end  in  the  great  West,  it  is  a  fitting 
time  to  commemorate  their  work  with 
papers  descriptive  of  the  character  of  these 
leaders  and  of  the  life  of  their  campaigns. 
A  brief  series  of  articles  by  offi- 
cers who  served  with  them  will 
appear  in  The  Century,  to  be 
illustrated  by  Remington,  an  ar- 
tist thoroughly  at  home  among 
the  cow-boys,  troopers,  and  In- 
dians of  the  plains. 

AMERICAN  AND  ENGLISH 

FRIGATES    IN    THE 

WAR  OF   l8l  2. 

A  genuine  contribution 
to  the  naval  history  of  the 
war  of  181 2-14  has  been 
made  by  Edgar  S.  Maclay 
through  his  investigations 
in  the  French  archives;  and 
the  results  of  his  studies  will 
be  set  forth  in  two  handsomely  illustrated 
papers  to  be  printed  in  the  November  and 
December  Century.  The  well-known 
marine  artist,  Davidson,  is  the  illustrator 
of  these  interesting  chapters  of  history. 

"THE    FAITH    DOCTOR," 

BY    EDWARD    EGGLESTON. 

The  publishers  are  glad  to  announce  a 
new  novel  by  the  author  of"  The  Hoosier 
Schoolmaster,"  "Roxy,"  "  The  Graysons," 
etc.,  one  dealing  with  entirely  new  mate- 
rial, so  far  as  the  celebrated  author  is  con- 
cerned. Dr.  Eggleston  has  hitherto  in  his 
novels  treated  of  Western  life ;  in  the  pres- 
ent story,  the  scene  is  laid  entirely  in  the 
city  of  New  York ;  and  the  central  theme 
is,  as  indicated  by  the  title,  one  of  the  most 
curious  and  striking  developments  of  mod- 
ern and  contemporaneous  thought  and  life 
—  namely,  "Faith  Cure  "  and  "  Christian 
Science."  But  aside  from  this  theme  the 
novel  deals  with  various  phases  of  society 
in  an  amusing  as  well  as  philosophic  man- 
ner.    It  will  begin  in  a  few  months. 


"  Chad"  in  "  Colonel  Carter  of  Cartersvillt 


"  COLONEL     CARTER     OF     CARTERS- 

VILLE,"  BY    F.    HOPKINSON    SMITH. 

One  of  the  principal  features  of  The 
Century's  coming  year  will  be  a  number 


of  brief  serial  stories,  illustrating  the  most 
varied  features  of  American  life.  One  of 
the  most  original  of  these  will  be  a  five- 
number  story  by  Mr.  Francis  Hopkinson 
Smith.  Mr.  Hopkinson  Smith  is  as  well 
known  in  New  York  and  vicinity  as  a  ra- 
conteur as  he  is  as  artist  and  author ;  and 
"Colonel  Carter  of  Car- 
tersville"  will  prove  an 
old  friend  to  many  read- 
ers. The  character  has 
been  elaborated ;  the 
good  colonel  is  brought 
to  New  York,  where 
lie  settles  in  bachelor 
quarters  not  far  from 
the  10th  Street  Studio 
Building,  and  proceeds 
to  promote  his  great 
financial  scheme. 

The  plot  is  as  novel 
as  the  principal  char- 
acter is  typical ;  and 
the  traits  of  the  latter 
are  brought  out  in  such 
a  way  as  to  afford  not  only  constant  amuse- 
ment but  affectionate  regard.  The  story 
will  be  illustrated  by  E.  W.  Kemble. 

"  THE    SQUIRREL    INN,"    BY    FRANK 
R.    STOCKTON. 

"  The  Squirrel  Inn  "  is  a  story  of  vil- 
lage and  country  life  by  the  author  of 
"  Rudder  Grange,"  "  Mrs.  Leeks  and  Mrs. 
Aleshine,"  etc.  To  quote  the  author's 
own  description  of  it :  It  is  a  "  story  of  the 
crooked  course  of  love  in  a  crooked  house. 
It  is  unlike  '  The  Merry  Chanter,'  show- 
ing more  of  the  fun  of  realism  than  of  the 
realism  of  fun,  and  all  who  start  for  Hy- 
men's altar  (which  is  an  easier  place  to 
reach  than  Boston)  get  there.  Six  persons 
take  their  places  in  the  Dance  to  Wedlock, 
and  the  story  is  the  story  of  their  mazes, 
their  whirls,  and  their  twists,  as  merrily, 
or  indignantly,  they  take  their  steps," 

The  illustrations  of  "  The  Squirrel 
Inn  "  are  by  Mr.  A.  B.  Frost,  whose  for- 
tunate designs  for  "  Rudder  Grange  "  will 
be  remembered.  The  artist  and  author 
have  worked  together  in  the  preparation 
of  the  pictures  for  the  new  story,  and 
something  unusually  striking  and  interest- 
ing may  be  expected  in  the  way  of  pic- 
torial accompaniment  to  the  text. 


The-  Century-Co  -  33-East*  I7^STREET~Nf=w\bRK 


|yuc__JUUL— !wk 


vvif        viir         try        »iv        in- 


THE    CENTURY  FOR   1890-91  —  Continued. 


MMES.    DE    STAEL,     ROLAND    AND 

RECAMIER. 

Mrs.  Amelia  Gere  Mason's  papers  on 
the  "  Women  of  the  French  Salons,"  which 
have  been  marked  by  their  literary  flavor 
and  keen  appreciation  of  the  quality  and 
influence  of  the  social  and  literary  centers 
of  the  old  regime,  have  lacked  only  some 
account  of  the  brilliant  women,  nearer 
to  the  spirit  of  the  present  age,  who  were 
the  leaders  of  the  "  salons  of  the  Revolu- 
tion, Empire  and  Restoration."  To  sup- 
ply such  a  conclusion  to  the  series  Mrs. 
Mason  has  prepared  two  supplemental 
papers  which  will  be  illustrated  with  por- 
traits of  Mme.  De  Stael,  Mme.  Roland, 
Mme.  Recamier,  and  others. 

PICTURES    BY  AMERICAN    ARTISTS. 

The  Century  during  the  coming  year, 
among  its  other  Art  features,  will  aim  to 
present  in  every  number  some  striking 
example  of  the  best  contemporary  work 
of  American  artists  —  engraved  by  the 
leading  American  wood-engravers  after 
the  originals.  The  first  of  this  series  will 
be  Mr.  Will  Low's  oil-painting,  exhibited 
at  the  Society  of  American  Artists,  and 
entitled  "  The  Portrait." 

AMERICAN    NEWSPAPERS. 

A  short  series  of  separate  papers  on  this 
subject  will  be  published  during  the  com- 
ing yean  The  high  character  and  author- 
itativeness  of  these  papers  may  be  judged 
from  two  which  are  now  in  preparation, 
namely,  "The Press  as  a  News  Gatherer," 
by  William  Henry  Smith,  Esq.,  of  New 
York,  manager  of  the  Associated  Press; 
and  "  The  Press  and  Public  Men,"  by 
General  H.  V.  Boynton,  the  veteran 
correspondent  at  Washington. 

MUNICIPAL    GOVERNMENT    IN 
EUROPE    AND    AMERICA 

The  problem  of  municipal  government 
is  being  studied  with  renewed  interest  in 
both  the  Old  and  the  New  World,  and 
the  articles  by  Dr.  Albert  Shaw  on  this 
subject,  which  The  Century  will  print, 
will  be  among  the  most  timely,  valuable, 
and  practically  suggestive  that  have  ever 
appeared  in  its  columns. 

Dr.  Shaw  will  be  remembered  as  the 
author  of  the  striking  article  on  "  Glas- 


gow," in  this  magazine  for  March,  1890. 
He  will  give  studies  of  Metropolitan  Lon- 
don; Paris  and  the  French  Municipal 
System;  Berlin  and  the  German  cities 
(with  running  comments  on  Dresden, 
Leipsic,  Munich,  etc.);  Recent  Progress 
of  Italian  cities  (said  to  be  the  most  inter- 
esting of  all) ;  and  modern  city-making  as 
illustrated  by  Vienna  and  Budapest.  Dr. 
Shaw  will  also  describe  and  discuss  muni- 
cipal government  in  the  United  States. 

PRESENT    DAY    PAPERS. 

This  unique  series  of  well-considered 
utterances  by  prominent  writers,  on  the 
great  questions  of  the  day,  will  be  con- 
tinued during  the  coming  year.  The 
group  has  recently  added  to  its  own  num- 
ber, and  now  consists  of  the  following : 


Charles  W.  Shields. 
Henry  C.  Potter. 
Theodore  T.  Munger. 
Wm.  Chauncey  Langdon. 
Samuel  W.  Dike. 
Seth  Low. 
Richard  T.  Ely. 


Hugh  Miller  Thompson. 
Charles  A.  Briggs. 
Washington  Gladden. 
Francis  G.  Peabody. 
William  F.  Slocum,  Jr. 
Edward  J.  Phelps. 
William  J.  Sloane. 


Charles  Dudley  Warner. 


The  above  list,  as  large  and  varied  as  it 
is,  gives  only  a  part  of  the  contents  of  the 
new  year,  special  announcements  of  feat- 
ures in  preparation  being  reserved.  The 
readers  of  The  Century  will  continue  to 
enjoy  Mr.  Cole's  unique  engravings  after 
the  Old  Masters;  Mr.  George  Kennan, 
who  was  interrupted  in  the  preparation 
of  his  concluding  papers,  will,  it  is  ex- 
pected, before  long  give  further  chapters 
of  the  story  of  his  travels  in  Siberia  and 
Russia;  Mrs.  Van  Rensselaer  will  publish 
her  final  papers  on  English  Cathedrals, 
and  Mr.  La  Farge  will  give  his  views  of 
art  in  general,  and  especially  of  modern 
and  western  art  methods,  from  the  point 
of  view  of  an  oriental  residence.  Several 
story-writers,  entirely  new  to  The  Cen- 
tury's readers,  will  make  their  appear- 
ance during  the  coming  year,  and  there 
will  be  the  usual  range  of  poetical  con- 
tributions, especially  by  the  younger  poets 
of  America. 

Terms  of  subscription,  etc.,  will  be  found 
at  the  bottom  of  the  second  cover  page. 
It  is  recommended  that  new  subscriptions 
should  begin  with  November.  Subscribers 
are  reminded  that  covers  are  ready  for 
binding  the  volume  which  closes  will)  (lie 
present  number. 


7he-Century-Co-33^East-I7^Street-NewYow^^^ 

s 


-XXX — X*X W — >XX_  BB      «H      Ul      iw      vim-_a»ii       m        iw      =ggg= 


"'     ""     jog      U,IV     M¥g     vwv     *vv     "v     tfrv     aog 


NEW   BOOKS. 


ocoooooooocxwoocxkxxx)8    IOrm 


THE    LINCOLN    LIFE. 

goooooooooooooooooooo^ S  already  announced 
in  these  pages,  that 
great  work  "  Abraham 
Lincoln:  A  History," 
by  Messrs.  Nicolay 
and  Hay,  is  now  about 
to  be  issued  in  book 
in  ten  hand- 
some volumes  of  500  pages  each,  mag- 
nificently illustrated  with  portraits  of 
distinguished  statesmen,  generals,  and 
civilians,  contemporaries  of  Mr.  Lincoln. 
A  full  and  complete  index,  accompanying 
the  last  volume,  makes  the  work  invalu- 
able for  reference. 

"  Abraham  Lincoln :  A  History  "  is 
sold  only  by  subscription.  The  Century 
Co.  will  gladly  send  further  particulars 
on  request. 

# 

To  be  sold  through  the  trade.     Ready  October  ioth. 

THE     AUTOBIOGRAPHY     OF    JOSEPH 
JEFFERSON. 

One  of  the  most  delightful  books  which 
has  ever  been  offered  to  the  public  is  the 
autobiography  of  the  actor 
whose  personality  is  per- 
haps dearer  to  Americans 
than  that  of  any  other  player 
on  the  stage.  What  Joseph 
Jefferson  would  have  to  say 
of  his  eventful  life,  of  the 
great  men  and  women  he 
has  met,  of  the  famous 
Jeffersons  who  preceded 
him,  and  of  the  creation  of 
such  a  world-famous  char- 
acter as  Rip  van  Winkle 
would  be  interesting  under 
any  circumstances,  but  when 
told  in  the  charming  natural 
style  of  which  Mr.  Jefferson  has  shown 
himself  the  thorough  master,  his  book 
becomes  one  of  the  most  notable  that  has 
ever  been  printed.  The  chapters  which 
have  appeared  in  The  Century  collected 
in  book  form  (and  such  beautiful  book 
form),  with  each  picture  on  plate  paper, 
and  bound  up  in  a  cover  of  white  and 
gold,  make  a  volume  of  rare  interest  and 
attractiveness.     The  illustrations   form  a 


magnificent  portrait  gallery  of  the  Ameri- 
can stage.  In  one  volume,  8vo,  500  pp., 
vellum  cover  richly  ornamented,  gilt  top, 
uncut,  in  box,  $4.00. 

# 
ANOTHER  BROWNIE  BOOK. 

Palmer  Cox's  curious  "  Brownies " 
have  made 
many  friends 
among  the 
children  (and 
grown  people 
are  not  averse 
to  looking  at 
the  pictures), 
and  when  the  first  Brownie  Book  was 
issued  three  years  ago  a  sale  of  25,000 
copies  awaited  it.  The  poems  and  pic- 
tures which  Mr.  Cox  has  contributed  to 
St.  Nicholas  and  other  children's  maga- 
zines and  papers  since  the  issue  of  his 
first  volume  have  now  been  collected  in 
attractive  form  under  the  self-explanatory 
title  :  "  Another  Brownie  Book."  Large 
pages  (9^  x  8),  illuminated  cover,  $1.50. 

*  # 
* 

SANTA    CLAUS    ON    A    LARK. 

A  book  of  Christmas 
stories  by  Washington 
Gladden,  many  of  which 
have  been  among  the  holi- 
day attractions  of  St.  Nich- 
olas Magazine  during  past 
years.  A  beautiful  gift- 
book  for  boys  and  girls. 
Square,  200  pp.,  illustrated, 
$1.50. 

# 

BOUND    VOLUMES    OF 

ST.    NICHOLAS. 

"  Of  all  the  books  pub- 
lished for  children,  whether  in  single 
number  or  as  a  bound  volume,  there  is 
nothing  quite  equal  to  St.  Nicholas," 
says  the  School  Jownal.  In  two  parts; 
1 000  pages,  richly  illustrated.  Cloth,  $4.00. 

The  above  will  be  for  sale  everywhere 
after  Oct.  ioth.  Copies  sent  by  the  pub- 
lishers post-paid  on  receipt  of  price. 


\*l\  r,t\l\  r.r.1  »«»—       -mrv-  «tt  itm»  unw  i«i  "^        -««ir  »ir»-  -nw  jrim  m  »nr  -»>nr w«t^^ 

THE-CENTURy-CO~33-EAST-  I7^STREET~NEW\bRK 


iv     yhv      nv       u»v      ■»»»       «w      wni       ui      vw      yra      Jtvv       miy         tw        ifvy         iff         «vt        y»«        Lilt      -inrg- 


ST.   NICHOLAS   FOR  YOUNG  FOLKS. 


THE    CENTURY    CO.  S    ILLUSTRATED    MAGAZINE  — 
NEXT    YEAR'S    DELIGHTFUL    PROGRAMME. 


ooooooooooooooooo 


qoooooooooooooooooooeaL  boys  and  girls  of 
from  eight  to  sixteen: 
they  are  the  ones  who 
most  enjoy  it,  and  it  is 
upon  them  that  St. 
Nicholas  wields  the 
highest  influence  — 
sound,  inspiring,  last- 
ing; but  there  are  pages  in  it  for  the  very 
little  ones  too — and,  after  all,  who  is 
there  too  old  to  enjoy  the  fun  and  frolic  of 
its  pictures  and  rhymes?  We  even  know 
grown-up  people  who  subscribe  to  St. 
Nicholas,  whose  children  are  hardly  out 
of  their  long  clothes. —  Nominally  they  do 
it  for  the  young  folks,  but  actually  they 
want  it  themselves  —  it 's  like  a  large  party 
of  adults  taking  a  small  child  to  the  circus. 

From  the  first  number,  as  is  well  known, 
the  best  writers,  illustrators  and  engravers 
have  contributed  to  its  pages.  And  now, 
at  the  outset  of  its  eighteenth  year,  the 
publishers  are  assured  of  continued  and 
increased  effort  to  maintain  its  high  stan- 
dard and  to  keep  the  magazine  in  line 
with  the  best  spirit  and  movement  of  the 
day ;  first  of  all  holding  to  the  tastes  and 
interests  of  the  boys  and  girls  themselves. 
The  new  volume,  which  begins  with  No- 
vember, will  contain  three 
serials  by  three  favor- 
ite writers,  whose  stories 
in  earlier  volumes  have 
proved  exceedingly  popu- 
lar.    They  are : 

"  One  Brave  Boy,"  by 
J.  T.  Trowbridge,  the 
famous  friend  of  Ameri- 
can boys,  whose  "  Cudjo's 
Cave"  is  as  well  known 
to  those  of  us  who  were 
boys  in  war-times  as  is  his 
"  Tinkham  Brothers'  Tide- 
Mill  "  to  the  lads  of  to-day. 

"  The  Boy  Settlers,"  by  Noah  Brooks, 
author  of  "The  Boy  Emigrants,"  etc. —  a 
story  full  of  stirring  episodes,  and  a  pic- 
turesque and  faithful  narrative  of  frontier 
life,  based  upon  personal  experiences. 

"A  Spoiled  Darling,"  by  Frances 
Courtenay  Baylor,  author  of  "  On  Both 


Sides,"  "Juan  and  Juanita,"  etc. —  a 
story  which  will  enable  the  boys  and  girls 
of  America  and  the  boys  and  girls  of 
England  to  meet  halfway  and  see  each- 
other  face  to  face. 

Besides  these  there  is  to 
be  a  serial  by  Brander  Mat- 
thews, a  well-known. writer, 
who  in  this,  his  first  long< 
story  for  boys  and  girls, 
evinces  the  same  skill  in 
the  handling  of  plot  and 
delineation  of  character 
that  marks  his  work  for 
adult  readers.  It  is  called 
"Tom  Paulding;  a  Story 
of  Buried  Treasure  in  the 
City  of  New  York."  Another  attractive 
feature  will  be  "  Chan  Ok;  a  Tale  of  the 
Eastern  Seas,"  by  Julian  O.  Davidson, 
founded  largely  upon  the  author's  expe- 
riences and  notes  of  life  in  the  Far  East. 

#  # 
# 

Some  of  the  other  good  things  in  store 
for  St.  Nicholas  readers  include :  "  A  Talk 
about  Reading,"  by  Charles  Dudley  War- 
ner ;  "  The  Story  of  the  Golden  Fleece," 
beautifully  retold  for  young  readers  by 
Andrew  Lang;  "  Making  a  Newspaper," 
two  valuable  and  interesting  articles  by 
Julian  Ralph;  folk-tales  of  the  Pueblo 
Indians,  taken  down  by  Charles  F.  Lum- 
mis  from  the  actual  recitals  of  old  Indians 
sitting  by  their  camp-fires ;  capital  brief 
sketches  of  boy  life,  u  Swimming-Hole 
Stories,"  by  Walter  S.  Bigelow,  etc. 

# 
There !   that    is    enough    to    show    our 

point  —  which  is  that  "  no  household 
where  there  are  children  is  complete  with- 
out St.  Nicholas."  One  cannot  put  the 
spirit  of  the  magazine  into  a  prospectus — 
it  is  too  subtle  to  be  described  in  words ; 
but  it  is  safe  to  say  that  if  the  reader  of 
this  page  will  try  it  for  a  year — or  for  a 
single  month  —  in  his  own  home,  St. 
Nicholas  will  be  a  fixture  for  evermore. 
It  costs  $3.00  a  year ;  it  is  the  most  ex- 
pensive children's  magazine  in  the  world 
— and  the  public  has  been  saying  for 
nearly  twenty  years  that  it  is  the  best. 


THE-CENTURY-Co-33AEAST-I7^STREET-NEW\bRK 


(F 


Eg      mv       yvsf     jtm      tiv      mw      uiru      tnrn       *w 


TUNE    BOOK    NOTES. 


c 

OO0000CKXXXXXXXXXXXXXJO 


the  field  of  church 
music  no  other  man 
has  done  so  much,  nor 
has  any  other  com- 
piler so  satisfied  the 
wants  of  the  churches 
and  at  the  same  time 
led  them  towards  a 
higher  form  of  worship  in  song,  as  the 
Rev.  Charles  S.  Robinson,  D.  D.,  LL.  D., 
whose  hymn  and  tune  books  are  published 
by  The  Century  Co.  His  latest  work 
is  the  "  Laudes  Domini "  Series,  which 
now  consists  of  "  Laudes  Domini  "  (for 
the  church  and  the 
choir  —  unabridged), 
"  Laudes  Domini 

Abridged"  (for  small- 
er churches,  chapels, 
schools,  etc.), "  Laudes 
Domini  for  the  Prayer 
Meeting"  (just  issued), 
and  "  Laudes  Domini 
for  the  Sunday  School," 
one  of  the  greatest 
successes  of  modern 
Sunday-school  music 
books, 

# 
In  i862?  while  then 

a     young    pastor    in 
Brooklyn,  Dr.  Robin- 
son prepared  "  Songs 
of  the  Church."     En- 
couraged  by  its  suc- 
cess, in  1865  he  com- 
piled "  Songs  for  the 
Sanctuary,"      perhaps 
the  best  known  of  all 
hymn  and  tune  books  for   Presbyterian 
and  Congregational  Churches.     In  1875 
he    issued    "  Psalms   and    Hymns    and 
Spiritual  Songs";  in  1879  ".Spiritual  Songs 
for  Church  and  Choir,"  and  in  1884  the 
first   edition    of    "  Laudes   Domini,"    of 
which  the  Rev.   Dr.   Noble  of  Chicago 
says,  "It  seems  to  me  the  final  challenge 
of  hymn -book-making  genius.      I  do  not 

see  how  it  can  be  better." 
#  # 

About  two  million  copies  of  Dr.  Robin- 
son's books  have,  it  is  estimated,  been 
issued.  These  include  the  various  edi- 
tions prepared  for  churches  of  denomina- 


gregational  —  Baptist,  Reformed  Epis- 
copal, Cumberland  Presbyterian,  Church 
of  God,  Freewill  Baptist,  etc.  Per- 
haps the  largest  order  that  ever  came  to 
the  publishers  from  any  one  church  was 
that  from  the  Rev.  Dr.  John  Hall's  of 
New  York,  when  it  adopted  "  Laudes 
Domini "  in  church,  prayer-meeting,  and 
Sunday-school,    ordering    two    thousand 

copies  of  the  unabridged  edition. 
#  # 

We  give  on  this  page  a  picture  of  the 
Church  of  the  Covenant  in  Washington. 
The  Rev.  T.  S.  Hamlin,  D.  D.,  is  pastor, 
and  President  Har- 
rison and  Secretary 
Blaine  are  among  the 
attendants.  The  con- 
gregational singing, 
under  the  leadership 
of  an  exceptionally 
efficient  precentor,  is 
said  to  be  "  excellent 
and  often  inspiring." 
"  Laudes  Domini  "  is 
used  in  the  regular 
church  service,  and 
the  abridged  edition 
in  both  prayer-meeting 
and  Sunday-school. 
The  former  book  is 
also  used  in  the  New 
York  Avenue  and  the 
Metropolitan  Presby- 
terian churches  of 
Washington. 


#  # 


Church  of  the  Covenant,  Washington,  D.  C. 


"  Laudes  Domini 
for  the  Prayer  Meet- 
ing," just  issued,  is  not  an  abridgment  of 
the  large  book,  but  a  compilation  made 
from  it  with  much  new  material  especially 
adapted  to  prayer-meetings  added.  The 
publishers  have  just  made  an  offer  to  allow 
Sunday-schools  to  try  "  Laudes  Domini 
for  the  Sunday  School "  for  four  weeks, 
and  if  not  satisfactory  the  copies  may  be 
returned  without  charge.  Any  respon- 
sible Sunday-school  can  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  accepting  this  offer,  and  a  single 
sample  copy  will  be  sent  to  any  superin- 
tendent or  teacher  for  25  cents. 

Write  to  The  Century  Co.,  New  York,  for 

further  particulars  and  prices  of  books  for  all 

Lions  other  than  the  Presbyterian  or  Con-    services  of  the  church  and  Sunday-school. 


it  VM  ■   '  ~      1  Vi 


THE-CeNTURY-Co  ~33-EAST>  l7T*STREET-NEW\bRK< 


T?S  CENTU  RY 


ILLUSTRATED  MONTHLY 


MAGAZINE. 


May  iSpO,  to  October  l8(p. 


<U«>N*^Mj 


T??  CENTURY  C?,    NEW-YORK 


T.  FISHER  UNWIN,  LONDON. 


Vol  XL  Nezt)  Series  Vcl.XFffl 


Copyright,  1890,  by  The  Century  Co. 


The  De  Vinne  Press. 


INDEX 

TO 

THE  CENTURY  MAGAZINE. 

VOL.   XL.  NEW    SERIES:    VOL.    XVIII. 


Page 
Andersonville,  A  Yankee  in T.  H.  Matin 447,  606 

Pictures  by  W.  Taber. 

Anglomaniacs,  The , 269,  435,  575,  677 

Pictures  by  C.  D.  Gibson. 

Astronomy. 

On  Meteorites  and  the  History  of  Stellar  Systems G.  H.  Danvin 858 

Picture  from  a  photograph. 

Athletics,  Track,  in  America Walter  Camp. . 203 

Pictures  by  W.  Taber,  from  instantaneous  photographs,  and  tailpiece  by  George  Wharton  Edwards. 

Athletics,  The  Influence  of Editorial 315 

Bacon,  Nathaniel,  the  Patriot  of  1676 Edward Eggles ton 418 

Pictures  by  Allegra  Eggleston,  and  from  old  prints. 

f    *     *     *  )  ->s 

Bashkirtseff,  Marie,  Two  Views  of 1  > 

}  D... S  •  .     29 

Pictures  by  Marie  Bashkirtseff,  and  from  a  photograph. 

Bible,  The,  and  Homer William  Cleaver  Wilkinson .  .  282 

Bloodhounds  and  Slaves Observer 479 

BOTTICELLI.     See  "  Italian  Old  Masters." 

Buffalo  "  Guard  of  Honor  " Charlotte  Mulligan 158 

(  'ai. 1  forma. 

The  Treasures  of  the  Yosemite John  Muir 483 

Features  of  the  Proposed  Yosemite  National  Park John  Muir 656 

The  Date  of  the  Discovery  of  the  Yosemite Lafayette  //.  Bunnell 705 

Amateur  Management  of  the  Yosemite  Scenery 797 

How  California  Came  into  the  Union George  Hamlin  Fitch 775 

Light  on  the  Seizure  of  California Josiah  Royce 792 

The  California  Boundary  Question  in  1849 Francis  J.  /.if>f>itt 794 

Carroll,  Miss,  The  Cask  of S".  /-.'.  Blackwell 638 

Cathedral,  Wells Mrs.  Schuyler  ran  Rensselaer  7.24 

Pictures  by  Joseph  Pennell. 

Cave-Dwellings,  Prehistoric /•'.  7\  Bickford 800 

Pictures  by  O.  Toasperm,  John  A.  Krascr,   I).   i'».  Keeler,  A.   Ureiinan.   A.   B.    Davies,  and  V.   IVraul 

Charity:  Public  Relief.    The  Buffalo  Guard  of  Honor Charlotte  Mulligan 158 


iv  INDEX. 

Page 
Chickens  for  Use  and  Beauty H.  S.  Babcock ....     47 

Pictures  by  James  C.  Beard  and  August  Will. 

Chinese  Note.     (Drawing) E.  W.  Kemblc 480 

Churches  and  the  Poor,  The Editorial 153 

Church  Unity,  The  Social  Problem  of Charles  W.  Shields 687 

Cities,  Misgovernment  of - Editorial 798 

Citizenship,  A  Test  of  Good Editorial 953 

College,  Female,  The  First Harry  Stillwell  Edwards 159 

Colonies,  American.     See  "  Bacon." 

Conscience,  On  Lack  of,  as  a  Means  of  Success Editorial 474 

Consciousness,  A  Study  of , H.  C.  Wood. 72,  639 

Decoration  Day  Revery,  A Brander  Matthews  . .  , 102 

Picture  by  R.  W.  Lockwood. 

Dixie,  A  Hard  Road  to  Travel  Out  of IV.  II.  Shelton 931 

Pictures  by  the  author  and  from  photographs. 

Duello,  The  Lingering Editorial 152 

Education,  The  New  Movement  in , Editorial 151 

Electoral  System,  Reformed,  New  York's Editorial 474 

Emancipation  of  Joseph  Peloubet,  The John  Elliott  Curran 525 

Pictures  by  Harper  Pennington. 

Epitaphs,  Martial. Rossiter  Johnson 156 

Explorers,  The  New  School  of , . . , Editorial 635 

Farragut,  Admiral,  An  Anecdote  of A.  E.  P.  Perkins 318 

French  Salons,  The  Women  of  the Amelia  Gere  Mason 77 

226,  356,  596,  643,  878 

Pictures  by  Kenyon  Cox,  John  A.  Fraser,  M.   Leloir,  August  Will,  George  Wharton  Edwards,  A.   Brennan,  and 
from  engravings. 

Friend  Olivia Amelia  E.  Barr 34 

182,  464,  623,  760,  844 

G.  A.  R.,  The,  as  Seen  from  the  Inside George  I.  Kilmer 154 

Homer  and  the  Bible William  Cleaver  Wilkinson .  .   282 

How  Jerry  Bought  Malviny Virginia  Eraser  Boyle 892 

Pictures  by  E.  W.  Kemble. 

In  Dark  New  England  Days Sarah  Ome  Jezuett 911 

Pictures  by  E.  W.  Kemble. 

Irish  Kings  and  Brehons Charles  de  Kay 294 

Pictures  by  J.  W.  Alexander,  A.  Brennan,  W.  J.  Baer,  W.  Taber,  O.  H.  Bacher,  and  from  prints. 

Irrigation.     By  the  Director  of  U.  S.  Geological  Survey. 

Arid  Lands,  Institutions  for  the J.  W.  Powell in 

Forests  and  Streams Abbott  Kinney .  .   63  J 

Italian  Old  Masters IV.  J.  Stillman. 

With  engravings  and  notes  by  T.  Cole. 

Andrea  del  Verrocchio 95 

Filippino  Lippi.     With  frontispiece  (facing  page  323) 462 

Sandro  Botticelli.     With  frontispiece  (facing  page  483) 501 

Japan,  An  Artist's  Letters  from John  la  Farge .  195,  566,  751,  866 

Pictures  by  the  author. 

Jefferson,  Joseph,  The  Autobiography  of Joseph  Jefferson 135 

Pictures  from  photographs.  263,  406,  538,  704,  814 

Australia 135  A  Chinese  Theater 266 

Melbourne 137  Callao 406 

The  "  Skeleton  Dance  " 138  Lima 408 

The  Shepherd 139  A  Midnight  Funeral 408 

An  Australian  Tragedy 142  A  Beggar  on  Horseback 409 

A  Terrible  Audience 143  The  Theater  in  Callao 410 

The  Keans  in  Australia 263  A  Religious  Tableau 410 


INDEX.  v 

Page 

A  Tropical  City 411        John  B.  Rice 715 

Leaving  South  America 411        "  The  Rivals  " 717 

An  Incident  in  Panama 412        William  Warren 722 

The  New  "  Rip  Van  Winkle  "  in  London 414        Portrait  of  Joseph  Jefferson,  facing  page 803 

English  Relatives 416        Mr.  and  Mrs.  Barney  Williams   814 

John  Brougham 538        John  Drew 814 

Tom  Robertson 539        Charlotte  Cushman 815 

Artemus  Ward 541        Mrs.  Drake 816 

Edwin  Adams 542        Reflections  on  the  Art  of  Acting 820 

The  Combination  System 544        Preparation  and  Inspiration 821 

George  D.  Prentice 545        Rehearsals '. 822 

Tom  Glessing  Again 547        A  Story  of  Burton 825 

George    Holland,    "  The    Little    Church   Around   the  Should  an  Actor  "  feel  "  his  Part 825 

Corner  " 548        Dramatic  Writing 826 

Charles  Fechter 549       A  Fault  of  French  Acting 826 

Once  More  in  Paris 551        The  Actors  of  To-Day 826 

French  Acting 552        Imitation  and  Acting 827 

French  and  English  Painters 553  Freshness  in  Playing  a  Part  —  A  Story  of  Mrs.  Warner  and 

English  Acquaintances 554  Macready 828 

The  Rev.  Joseph  Jefferson , 704       Learning  to  Act 830 

Gainsborough 705        Conversations  Concerning  "  Rip  Van  Winkle  " 831 

In  Scotland 705        Realism  on  the  Stage 832 

In  Ireland 708        Playing  "  Rip  "  in  the  Catskills 832 

At  Home  Again   708        In  Louisiana 834 

Talks  with  Charles  Mathews 711 

Journalists  and  Newsmongers Editorial 313 

Kentucky  Blue-grass,  A  Taste  of .John  Burroughs 339 

Pictures  by  W.  L.  Maclean. 

Lincoln,  Memoranda  on  the  Life  of. 

A  Word  from  England Henry  De  Garrs 305 

Lincoln  in  Petersburg C.  C.  Carpenter 306 

Lincoln's  Visit  to  Richmond   307 

The  Stars  and  Stripes  in  Richmond Loomis  L.  Langdon 307 

The  Stage  and  Proscenium  Boxes  of  Ford's  Theater.      (Drawing) 308 

General  Grant  and  the  News  of  Lincoln's  Death Charles  E.  Bolles 309 

At  the  Death-bed  of  Lincoln A.  E.  Rockzuell 310 

The  House  in  which  Lincoln  Died.     (Diagram) 310 

Lincoln's  Military  Guard //.  M.  Kieffer 311 

Lincoln's  Fame L.  S.  H 311 

Lincoln's  Nomination Thomfts  II.  Dudley 477 

McClellan's  Candidacy  with  the  Army Earl  Jll.  Rogers 959 

Lippi,  Filippino.     See  "  Italian  Old  Masters." 

Literature,  American,  Woman  in Helen  Gray  Cone 921 

Little  Venice Grace  Denio  Litchfield 367 

Pictures  by  Mary  Hallock  Foote. 

Lois  Benson's  Love  Story Anne  Page 697 

London  Polytechnics  and  People's  Palaces   Albert  Shaw 163 

Pictures  by  Joseph  Pennell,  Harry  Fenn,  E.  J.  Meeker,  Hughson  Hawley,  V.  Gribayedoff,  and  from  photographs. 

McClellan.     See  "War." 

Manuscripts,  Nine  Thousand Editorial 313 

Marble  Hills,  In  the Rowland  E.  Robinson 743 

Pictures  by  J.  A.  S.  Monks. 

Martial  Epitaphs Rossiter  Johnson 156 

Mere  March  kite Arlo  Bates 244 

Picture  by  E.  J.  Major. 

Merit  System,  The,  in  the  Fifty-first  Congress Editorial 953 

Merit  System,  The Hugh  S.  Thompson 954 

Millions,  The  Forgotten   Charles  //'.  Eliot 556 

Mount  Desert.     See  "  Millions,  The  Forgotten." 

Naval  Guns,  Our  New C.  E.  Goodrieh O67 

Pictures  by  W.  Tabcr,  A.  Will,  D.  Comins.     1 'ingrains  by  Jacob  Wells. 

New  England  Days,  In  Dark Sarah  Orne  Jewett 911 

Pictures  by  E.  W.  Keinble. 


vi  INDEX. 

Page 

News  ?  What  's  the Eugene  M.  Camp 260 

Newsmongers  and  Journalism , Editorial 313 

North,  Christopher David  B.  Scott 318 

Observations J.  A.  Macon 319,  640,  800 

O'Hara,  Theodore : Robert  Bums  Wilson 106 

Pictures  by  Harry  Fenn  and  from  a  daguerreotype,  with  O'Hara's  "  The  Bivouac  of  the  Dead." 

Patronage  in  Offices  is  Un-American,  Why.  . , Henry  Cabot  Lodge 837 

Politics,  Tom-toms  in Editorial 476 

'Possum  Hunt,  The.  (Drawing) E.  IK  Kemble 319 

Present-Day  Papers. 

The  Social  Problem  of  Church  Unity     Charles  IV.  Shields 687 

Provencal  Pilgrimage,  A Harriet  IV.  Preston . .    .  .323,  586 

Pictures  by  Joseph  Pennell. 
Provence Editorial 636 

Reflections Charles  D.  Stewart 480 

Reign  of  Reason,  The Viola  Rosebord1 349 

Pictures  by  E.  W.  Kemble. 

Robertson,  Archibald.     See  "Washington." 

Romance  of  Two  Cameras,  The Elizabeth  IV.    Champney  ...    117 

Ryder,  Albert  Pinkham Henry  Eckford 250 

Pictures  by  Albert  Pinkham  Ryder. 

Savoy,  High,  Out-of-the-Ways  in. .Edward  Eggleston 803 

Pictures  by  Joseph  Pennell. 

Sermon,  A  Recent . . Editorial 476 

Sheridan.     See  "War." 

Siberia  and  the  Exile  System.     (See  also  preceding  volumes.) 

"  Blacked  Out  " George  Kcnnan 65 

With  facsimiles  of  pages  blacked  out  by  Russian  Censors. 

Siberian  Exile  Petition  Movement  in  Philadelphia,  The Alfred  J.  P.  McClure 636 

Solitude,  The  Distaste  for Editorial 633 

South  America,  Trade »with .Alfred Batch 316 

Tax,  A  Single,  upon  Land Edward  Atkinson 385,  403 

Tax,  A  Single,  upon  Land  Values Henry  George 394 

Taxation,  Comparative Edward  Atkinson 284 

Teaching,  The  Science  of,  and  University  Extension Mary  Hargrove  Simpson. . . .  479 

Travis  and  Major  Jonathan  WTlby Richard  Malcolm  Johnston.  .    125 

Pictures  by  A.  B.  Frost. 

Trusty,  No.  49 Octave  Thanet 212 

Pictures  by  E.  W.  Kemble. 

University  Extension.     See  "Teaching.'1, 

Verrocchio.     See  "  Italian  Old  Masters." 

Voter,  Independent,  Partisan  Recognition  of  the , Editorial 950 

Vivisection,  Does  it  Help  ? Edward  Berdoe 956 

War,  Civil,  Valor  and  Skill  in. 

I.   Was  Either  the  Better  Soldier Theodore  Ayrault  Dodge  ...    144 

II.   Which  Was  the  Better  Army Charles  A.  Patch 148 

A  Yankee  in  Andersonville T.  H.  Mann 447,  606 

A  Hard  Road  to  Travel  out  of  Dixie IV.  H.  Shelton 931 

Pictures  by  the  author  and  from  photographs. 

An  Anecdote  of  Sheridan Abner Doubleday .   958 

McClellan's  Candidacy  with  the  Army Earl  M.  Rogers 959 


INDEX.  vii 

Page 

Washington. 

Archibald  Robertson,  and  his  Portraits Edith  Robertson  Cleveland  .  .       3 

Pictures  by  Archibald  Robertson  and  Andrew  Robertson. 

(  William  Armstrong  ....)..      14 


Edmund  Latv  Ropers   .  .  \   .  .      22 


Some  New  Washington  Relics 

Pictures  by  Harry  Fenn,  and  from  photographs. 

Original  Portraits  of  Washington    Charles  Henry  Hart 26 

Frontispiece  (facing  page  3)  and  portrait  by  John  Ramage. 

Washington  and  Memorial  Day Editorial 15 1 

Wells  Cathedral Mrs.  Schuyler  van  Rensselaer  724 

Pictures  by  Joseph  Pennell. 

Whaling,  The  Perils  and  Romance  of Guslav  Kobbe 509 

Pictures  by  W.  Taber,  J.  O.  Davidson,  and  Howard  Helmick. 

Woman  in  American  Literature Helen  Gray  Cone 921 

Wood-Engraving,  The  Outlook  for Editorial 312 

Yosemite,  The  Treasures  of  the John  Muir 483,  656 

Pictures  by  J.  A.  Fraser,  William  Keith,  Harry  Fenn,  W.   H.  Shelton,  Thomas  Moran,  and  A.  B.  Davis,  from  photo- 
graphs by  George  Fiske.     Maps  by  Jacob  Wells. 


POETRY. 

At  a  Dinner  of  Artists Richard  Henry  Stoddard.  .  .  .   348 

At  the  Play Andrew  B.  Saxton 293 

Attainment Frank  Dempster  Sherman .  .  .   565 

Before  the  Baby  Came Fannie  Windsor 800 

Buried  Thought Helen  Thayer  Hutcheson     .  .  461 

Constant  Lover,  The William  R.  Thayer 800 

Dialect  Poem,  The  Evolution  of  the Henry  Tyrrell 160 

Drurie,  Marian Bliss  Carmen 595 

Elf-Shot Louise  Imogen  Gniney 930 

Empty  Hour,  The Julie  M.  Lippmann 920 

Experientia  Docet „ M.  E.  Wardwell 640 

Fallen,  The John  Vance  Cheney 33 

Fickle  Hope Harrison  S.  Morris 101 

Fighting  Parson,  The Henry  Ames  Blood 61 

Pictures  by  George  Wharton  Edwards. 

Going  for  the  Cows IV.S.  Snyder 800 

Guilielmus  Rex „ Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich 633 

Immortal Helen  Thayer  Hutcheson ....  293 

In  the  Night  Watches Alice  Wellington  Rollins ....  356 

"  I  Vex  Me  Not  with  Brooding  on  the  Years  " Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich 134 

Jefferson,  Joe,  Ox,  Telling  his  Story John  I.  Heaion 160 

LAZYLAND Margaret  J 'audegri/t 640 

LETTER,  The Annie  Louise  Brakenridge .  .  .  320 

Lost  Luray,  To  My John  Eliot  Bowen 959 

Love-making  in  Hay-making Zitella  Cocke 480 

Love's  Dawn John  Hay 774 

Lieu,  To Charles  Henry  Webb 320 

Mammy's  Churning  Song Edward  A.  Oldham 960 

Man   Florence  Earle  Coates 194 

Modesty kohn  Rend  rich  Bangs 640 

Muezzin,  The Clin  ton  Scollard 406 

My  Blotter  and  I Cora  Stuart  Wheeler 160 

Negro  in  the  Overflow,  The Virginia  Frazer  Boyle 639 

Night  Scene,  A Tames  Herbert  Morse 105 

Pearl,  The  Making  of  the    Harriet  Prescott  Spofford  .  .    .  500 

Perpetuity /-'rank  Dempster  Sherman .  .  .  565 

Photography,  Amateur Nathan  Haskell  Dole 4S0 


viii  INDEX. 

Page 

Plaint Margaret  Vandcgrift 800 

Reflection,  A Henrietta  Stuart 320 

Repartee William  Frederick  Dix 800 

Rose  of  Dawn,  The Louise  Chandler  Monlton  ...   89 1 

September Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox 759 

Since  Amy  Died Andrew  B.  Saxton 60 

Song  of  Growth,  A Charles  G.  D.  Roberts 605 

Souvenirs Lloyd  McKim  Garrison 703 

(They  Said.  ) , Edith  M.  Thomas 574 

Twilight  Song,  For  Unknown  Buried  Soldiers,  North  and  South  .  Walt  Whitman 27 

Under  the  Balcony Frank  Dempster  Sherman .  .  .  565 

Yellow-Hammer's  Tap,  The Edward  A.  Oldham 320 

DEPARTMENTS. 

Topics  of  the  Time 151,  312,  474,  633,  797,  950 

Open  Letters 154,  316,  477,  636,  954 

Bric-a-Brac , 160,  319,  480,  639,  800,  959 


Ascutney  Street 


A  Story  by  Mrs.  A.  D.  T.  Whitney,  author  of  "  Faith  Gartney's  Girlhood,"  etc.     i2mo,  $1.50. 

One  of  Mrs.  Whitney's  excellent  stories  which  actually  prove  that  reality,  sincerity,  unselfishness,  and  noble 
aspiration  make  life  not  only  worth  living  but  infinitely  more  sane  and  beautiful  than  low  aims  and  pretense  car 
make  it. 


Nature,  Lectures,  and  Ad- 
dresses; and  Represen- 
tative Men. 

By  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson.     Popular  Edition,      1 
vol.,  crown  8vo,  cloth,  $1.00. 


Prudence  Palfrey. 

A   Novel  by  Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich.      Riverside 
Paper  Series.     50  cents. 

One  of  Mr.  Aldrich's  most  delightful  stories,  and  one 
of  the  most  charming  in  American  literature. 


Aztec    L 


an 

By  Maturin  M.  Ballou,  author  of  "  Due  West,"  ''Due  South/'  "  Due  North,"  "  Under  the  Southern  Cross'' 

and  "  The  New  Eldorado,"  etc.     Each,  crown  8vo,  $1.50. 

Mr.  Ballou,  who  is  well  known  as  one  of  the  most  intelligent  and  enterprising  of  modern  travelers,has  recently 
visited  Mexico.    The  results  of  his  observations  are  embodied  in  a  book  which  cannot  fail  to  find  a  host  of  readers 


Rab  and  his   Friends, 

And  Other  Dogs  and  Men.  By  Dr.  John  Brown, 
author  of  "Spare  Hours."  "Riverside  Classics.'''' 
l6mo,  $1.00. 

Containing  a  Memoir  of  Dr.  John  Brown,  Rab  and  his 
Friends,  Our  Dogs,  Marjorie  Fleming,  Queen  Mary's 
Child  Garden,  Jeems  the  Doorkeeper,  and  other  papers. 


Lighter   Hours, 

By  W,  M.  Thackeray,     "  Modem  Classics.'"   Orange 
edges,,  75  cents;  School  Edition,  40  cents,  net. 
Containing  "  Dr.  Birch  and  his  Young  Friends,"  twc 

papers   from  "  The   Book   of  Snobs,"  eleven    of  the 

charming  <(  Roundabout  Papers,"  and  "The  Curate's 

Walk," 


Economic  and  Social   History  of  New  England. 

1620-1  789., 

With  an  Appendix  of  Prices.     By  William  B.  Weeden.     2  vols.,  crown  8vo,  $4.50, 

These  volumes  are  of  great  value,  comprising  the  results  of  much  research.      They  deal  with  topics  just  now 
in  the  air,  and  are  written  with  notable  vigor  of  narration  and  in  an  admirable  style. 

Civil   Government. 

By  John   Fiske,  author  o>f  "  The  Critical   Period  of 
American  History,"  etc.     With  Questions  by  F.  A. 
Hill,  Principal  of  the  English  High  School,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.     Crown  8vo,  $1.00. 
A  book  for  schools  and  families,  setting  forth  with 
Mr.  Fiske's  wonderful  clearness  and  attractive  style  the 
principles  and  methods  of  civil  government  as  exempli- 
fied in  the  United  States  and  in  the  several  States. 


Alfred  the   Great. 

By  Thomas  Hughes,  author  of  "Tom  Brown's  School 
Days  at  Rugby,"  etc.  New  Edition.  i6mo,  $1.25. 
Alfred  the  Great  is  one  of  the  few  monarchs  whose 
career  secures  the  respect  and  the  interest  of  mankind. 
Mr.  Hughes  tells  his  story  with  characteristic  simplic 
ity,  with  hearty  admiration  and  sympathy,  and  gives  at 
once  a  delightful  biography  and  a  notable  chapter  in 
English  history. 


%*  For  sale  by  all  Booksellers.     Sent  by  mail,  post-paid,  on  receipt  0/ price,  by  the  Publishers, 

HOUGHTON,   MIFFLIN  AND   COMPANY, 

4   Park   St.   Boston;    11    East   17th   St.    New -York. 


SCRIBNER  &  WELFORD'S  NEW  BOOKS. 

THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF  GIROLAMO  SAVONAROLA. 

By  Prof.  Pasquale  Villari.  Translated  by  Linda  Villari.  Portraits  and  illustrations  in  photogravure.  New 
edition,  revised  and  enlarged.     New  and  cheaper  edition.     2  vols.,  8vo,  $6.00. 

This  is  the  work  of  an  eminent  scholar,  who  has  made  a  special  study  of  the  period  of  the  Renaissance.  The  work  may  be  considered 
the  only  one  that  does  full  justice  to  the  life  and  public  services  of  one  of  the  most  remarkable  men  of  his  time,  and  one  of  the  most  bril- 
Lliant  lights  of  medieval  history.  

JOHN  ASH  TON'S  NEW  WORK: 

SOCIAL  ENGLAND  UNDER  THE  REGENCY  (1811-1819). 

By  John  Ashton,  author  of"  Social  Life  in  the  Reign  of  Queen  Anne,"  "  Old  Times,"  etc.  2  vols.,  demy  octavo, 
with  90  illustrations,  $7.50.  

In  Preparation  :   New   Volume  of  Miss  Pardoe's   Works. 

THE  LIFE  OF  MARIE  DE  MEDICIS. 

'Queen  of  France,  Consort  of  Henry  IV.,  and  Regent  of  the  Kingdom  under  Louis  XIII.  By  Miss  Pardoe, 
author  of"  Francis  the  First  and  his  Times,"  "  Louis  the  Fourteenth,"  etc  ,  etc.  3  vols.,8vo.  With  numerous 
portraits  and  plates  on  steel. 

A  MANUAL  OF  BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

Being  an  introduction  to  the  Knowledge  of  Books,  Library  Management  and  the  Art  of  Cataloguing.  By  Walter 
Thomas  Rogers,  F.  R.  S.  Lit.  With  illustrations,  and  a  colored  frontispiece.  i2mo,  vellum  covers, 
antique  style,  gilt  top,  uncut  edges,  $1.75. 


Four  Great  Teachers: 

RUSKIN,  CARLISLE,  EMERSON  and  BROWN- 
ING. By  Joseph  Forster.  One  vol.,  i2mo,  cloth, 
$1.00. 

"  Being,  in  the  main,  a  collection  of  illustrative  extracts,  it  will 
serve  as  a  guide  to  the  study  of  the  originals." — Echo. 


JOHN  ADDING  TON  SYMONDS. 

Essays,  Speculative  and  Suggesti 


By  John  Addington  Symonds.     2  vols.,  crown  8vo, 
cloth,  $6.75. 

Contents  :  On  some  Principles  of  Criticism ;  Realism  and 
Idealism ;  Notes  on  Style ;  A  Comparison  of  Elizabethan  with 
Victorian  Poetry;   The  Provinces  of  the  Several  Arts,  etc 


RICHARD  WAGNER'S  LETTERS 

To  His  Dresden  Friends:  Theodore  Uhlig,  Wilhelm  Fischer,  and  Ferdinand  Heine.  Translated  into  English 
with  a  Preface  by  J.  S.  Shedlock,  and  an  Etching  of  Wagner,  by  C.  W.  Sherborn.  i  vol.,  handsome 
cloth,  with  gilt  stamp,  uncut  edges,  gilt  top;  uniform  style  with  Wagner-Liszt  Correspondence,  $3.50. 

NATHANIEL  HAWTHORNE. 

By  Moncure  D.  Conway.  New  Volume  of  the  Great  Writers  Series.  A  new  series  of  Critical  Biographies  of 
European  and  American  Writers.  Edited  by  Prof.  Eric  S.  Robertson,  with  Complete  Bibliography  to 
each  volume  by  J.  P.  Anderson,  British  Museum.     Library  Edition.     8vo,  $1.00. 

THE  BARBIZON  SCHOOL  OF  PAINTERS. 

By  David  Croal  Thomson,  author  of  "The  Life  and  Works  of  Thomas  Bewick,"  and  "The  Life  of  H.  K. 

Browne."      A  complete  biographical  and  critical  account  of  the  group  of  five  celebrated   French  painters 

known  as  the  Barbizon  School,  Theodore  Rousseau,  Narcisse  Virgilio  Diaz,  Jean  Francois  Millet, 

Charles  Francois  Daubigny,  and  Jean  Baptiste  Camille  Corot. 

One  volume,  quarto  (300  pages),  limited  Large  Paper  Edition,  only  100  copies  printed  with  the  illustrations 
on  special  paper.     Each  copy  numbered  and  signed  by  the  author.     Price,  $20.00  net. 

THE  CONTEMPORARY  SCIENCE  SERIES. 

Edited  by  Havelock  Ellis.  Most  of  the  volumes  will  be  illustrated,  containing  between  300  and  400  pages. 
Others  to  follow  at  short  intervals.     Crown  8vo,  cloth,  $1.25  per  vol. 

New   Volume : 
MANUAL  TRAINING.     By  Dr.  C.  M.  Woodward  (St.  Louis,  Mo.). 

Pfcutoztslv  Issued .' 

evolution  and  disease.  the  village  communlty.  the  criminal 

physiognomy  and  expression     electricity  in  modern  life.    hypnotism, 

the  origin  of  the  aryans  the  evolution  of  sex.  sanity  and  insanity. 


***  The  above  books  sent  upon  receipt  of  advertised  price 
interested. 


Catalogues  of  our  regular  stock  will  be  mailed,  if  desired,  to  those 

SCRIBNER   &  WELFORD,  743-745    Broadway,  New- York. 


Charles  Scribner's  Sons'  New  Books. 

HISTORY  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES. 

By  Henry  Adams.     Vols.  V.  and  VI.     The  First  Administration  of  James  Madison.     i2mo,  with  Maps,  $4.00. 

These  volumes,  like  their  predecessors,  bring  to  light  much  hitherto  unused  but  pertinent  information  from 
archives  to  which  the  author  alone  has  had  access.  They  are  written  in  the  same  strong,  trenchant,  picturesque 
style  that  made  the  earlier  volumes  famous. 


Vols.  I.  and  II.     The  First  Administration  of  Thomas 

Jefferson      i2mo,  with  Maps,  $4.00. 


Vols.  III.  and  IV.  The  Second  Administration  of  Thomas 
Jefferson.     i2mo,  with  Maps,  $4.00. 


"  It  would  be  difficult  to  speak  too  highly  of  the  work.       Mr.  Adams  is  thorough  in  research,  exact  in  statement,  judicial  in  tone, 
broad  of  view,  picturesque  and  impressive  in  description,  nervous  and  expressive  in  style." —  N.  V.  Tribune. 


Two  nezu  volumes  in  the  Cameo  Edition. 

OLD  CREOLE  DAYS.    By  G.  W.  Cable.    With  Etching 
by  Percy  Moran.      i6mo,  gilt  top,  $1.25. 

IN  OLE  VIRGINIA.     By  T.  N.  Page.     With  Etching 
by  W.  L.  Sheppard.     i6mo,  gilt  top,  $1.25. 

These  two  well-known  volumes  are  enriched  with  etchings,  and 
are  printed  from  new  plates.  Of  the  Cameo  Edition  the  Boston 
Traveller  says,  "  In  their  dainty  covers  and  fine  paper  they  will 
be  prime  favorites  for  holiday  gifts." 


Two  Little  Books  by  Eugene  Field. 
A  LITTLE  BOOK  OF  WESTERN  VERSE. 

A  LITTLE  BOOK  OF  PROFITABLE  TALES, 
By  Eugene  Field.     Each,  i6mo,  price  $1.25. 

These  volumes,  in  addition  to  the  abundant  wit  and  humor  which 
they  contain,  reveal  another  side  of  the  author's  muid.  The  pathetic 
tenderness  and  graceful  imagery  of  some  of  the  poems  are  as  mov- 
ing as  the  mining-dialect  narratives  are  mirth-provoking.  They 
are  exquisitely  printed,  and  are  bound  in  blue  and  gold. 


Belief  in  God : 


FAMOUS  WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  COURT, 

Translated  from  the  French  of  M.  Imbert  de  Saint-Amand  by  Mr.  Thomas  Sergeant  Perry. 
CITIZENESS  BONAPARTE.     i2mo,  with  Portrait,  $1.25. 

This  volume  sketches  the  career  of  Josephine  from  her  marriage  with  Napoleon  to  the  period  described  in  The 
Wife  of  the  First  Consul — the  most  romantic  portion  of  her  life,  including  the  glories  of  the  Italian  campaign,  the 
days  of  Bonaparte's  greatest  devotion,  the  Egyptian  expedition  and  the  subsequent  personal  triumphs  at  Paris  itself. 

THE    WIFE  OF  THE    HAPPY    DAYS    OF  MARIE   ANTOINETTE    AND 

THE   FIRST   CONSUL.  THE   EMPRESS   MARIE   LOUISE.  THE   END   OF   THE   OLD    REGIME. 

Each  with  portrait.      i2mo.     Price  per  vol.,  $1.25.     Other  volumes  in  preparation. 
"  Graphic  and  vivid  with  historic  accuracy  and  the  breathless  interest  of  romance.'''1 —  Chicago  Inter-Ocean. 

Earth  and  Man : 

Lectures  on  Comparative  Physical  Geography  in  its 
Relation  to  the  History  of  Mankind.  By  Arnold 
Guyot.  Revised  and  enlarged  edition.  i2mo,  Maps 
and  Charts,  $1.75. 

Few  works  have  met  with  such  distinguished  approval  and  such 
universal  favor  as  this.  The  present  edition  is  printed  from  new 
plates,  and  contains  new  maps  and  appendices,  bringing  in  the 
most  recent  scientific  data. 

Introduction  to  Philosophy: 

An  Inquiry  after  a  Rational  System  of  Scientific  Princi- 
ples in  their  Relation  to  Ultimate  Reality.  By  Prof. 
George  T.  Ladd,  D.  D.     8vo,  $3.00. 

This  work  reviews  the  whole  field  of  philosophy  and  is  intended 
for  advanced  students  who  have  already  pursued  courses  of  study 
in  mental  and  moral  science.  It  comprehends  every  branch  of  the 
subject,  showing  the  origin,  nature,  and  content  of  each,  and  the 
relations  of  the  various  branches  to  each  other. 


Its  Origin,  Nature,  and  Basis.      By  J.  G.  Schurman, 
Professor  in  Cornell  University.      i2mo,  $1.25. 

Professor  Schurman's  work  embodies  a  history  of  the  growth  and 
development  of  man's  belief  in  God,  with  an  examination  of  the 
attitude  on  this  question  of  the  present  schools  of  philosophy. 

WORD  STUDIES 

In  the  New  Testament, 

Corinthians,    Ephe- 
lilem 
8vo,  $4.00. 


The   Epistles  of  Paul  —  Romans,    Cori 

sians,  Philippians,  Colossians,  Philemon.       By  Mar 
vin  R.  Vincent,  D.  D 

"  This  precious  volume  is  not  a  commentary.  It  is  not  a  diction- 
ary. It  fills  a  niche  hitherto  left  empty.  The  very  things  which  a 
minister  ou^ht  to  know  about  the  words  of  the  New  Testament  he 
will  be  able  to  learn  here." — Dr.  Theodore  L.  Cuyler. 

Synoptic   Gospels,  Acts  of  Apostles,  and    Epistles    of 
Peter,  James  and  Jude.     8vo,  $4.00. 

The  Writings   of  John.       The  Gospel,  The    Epistles, 
The  Apocalypse.     8vo,  $4.00. 


CYCLOPEDIA  OF  MUSIC  AND  MUSICIANS. 

Edited  by  John  Dknison  Champlin,  Jr.  Critical  Editor,  William  F.  APTHORP.  With  over  1,000  Illustra- 
tions, including  36  full-page  Etched  Portraits.  3  vols.,  4to,  Decorated  Parchment  Binding,  uniform  with  the 
"Cyclopedia  of  Painters  and  Paintings."  This  Edition  limited  to  500  Numbered  Sets  for  this  Country  and  50  for 
Europe.     $25.00  per  Volume,  net.      Third  volume  ready  in  October. 

This  completes  an  important  work  which  founds  its  claim  to  a  high  place  in  the  literature  of  its  art  upon  the  character  and  compre 
hensiveness  of  the  information  which,  through  its  text  and  illustrations,  it  for  the  first  lime  makes  accessible  ;  the  new  simplicity  of  its  arrange 
ment;  and  the  bibliography,  of  a  kind  hitherto  unattempted,  through  which  it  furnishes  a  key  and  guide  to  the  whole  literature  ot  music 


CHARLES  SCRIBNER'S  SONS,  743  &  745  Broadway,  New-York. 


DODD,MEAD  &  COMPANY'S  ANNOUNCEMENTS 
FOR  THE  AUTUMN  OF  1890. 


Makers  of  America. 

In  announcing  the  first  volumes  of  this  series  the  publishers 
desire  to  call  attention  to  the  peculiar  characteristics  which  dis- 
tinguish it,  and  make  it  of  more  than  usual  interest.  It  is  to  con- 
sist of  biographies  of  moderate  compass.  These  are  to  be  exact  as 
to  fact,  but  the  facts  are  to  be  presented  in  an  interesting  fashion. 
Each  book  is  to  have  local  colour  and  atmosphere,  so  as  to  be  a  pic- 
ture of  the  times,  an  Episode  of  American  History.  It  is  proposed 
to  include  in  this  series:  Discoverers,  Colonizers,  Statesmen,  Men 
of  War,  of  Letters,  Theologians,  Inventors;  in  short,  men  who,  in 
every  walk  of  life,  hive  won  success  and  national  reputation.  The 
books  will  be  of  12010  size,  and  published  at  the  uniform  price  of 
75  cents  per  volume. 

Alexander  Hamilton 

(1 757-1804),  Statesman,  Financier,  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 
By  Prof.  William  G.  Sumner,  of  Yale  University.  i2mo, 
cloth,  75  cents. 

George  and  Cecilius  Calvert,  Barons 
Baltimore  of  Baltimore 

(1580-1676),  and  the  Founding  of  the  Maryland  Colony.  By 
William  Hand  Browne,  editor  of  the  Archives  of  Mary- 
land. With  portrait  of  Cecilius  Calvert.  i2mo,  cloth,  75 
cents. 

James  Edward  Oglethorpe 

(1687-1785),  and  the  Founding  of  the  Georgia  Colony.  By 
Henry  Bruce,  Esq.     i2mo,  cloth,  75  cents. 

Father  Juniper  Serra 

(1713-1784),  and  the  Franciscan  Missions  in  California.  By 
John  Gilmary  Shea,  LL.  D.     ismo,  cloth,  75  cents. 

A  list  of  the  26  vols,  of  this  series  so  far  arranged  for  will  be 
sent  on  application. 

A  History  of  Modern  Architecture. 

By  James  Fergusson,  D.  C.  L.,  F.  R.  S.,  M.  R.  A.  S.,  etc. 
Thoroughly  revised  and  brought  down  to  the  present  time  by 
Robert  Kerr,  Professor  of  Architecture  at  King's  College,  Lon- 
don, with  many  new  illustrations  added.  Two  vols.,  octavo, 
price  later. 
This  work  is  produced  jointly  by  John  Murray,  London,  and  our- 
selves. 

A  supplementary  volume,  devoted  entirely  to  Modern  Architec- 
ture in  America,  by  Montgomery  Schuyler,  Esq.,  will  appear  in 


The  Sun  Dial. 

A  Poem  by  Austin  Dobson.  Illustrated  with  many  designs 
reproduced  in  photogravure,  and  with  drawings  in  pen  and 
ink,  by  George  Wharton  Edwards,  and  bound  in  unique 
fashion.  Quarto,  $7.50. 
An  edition  de  luxe  on  Japan  paper,  limited  to  50  copies,  with  an 
additional  design  signed  by  the  artist,  $20.00. 


Our  Mother  Tongue. 


By  Theodore  H.  Mead      nmo,  cloth,  $1.50. 

"Our  Mother  Tongue"  is  written  with  the  view  of  enabling  the 
reader,  without  the  aid  of  any  other  instruction,  to  correct  any 
defects  and  imperfections  that  may  exist  in  his  manner  of  speaking 
our  common  language.  These  defects  are  found,  in  the  first  place, 
in  the  quality  of  the  voice  itself,  then  in  our  manner  of  using  the 
voice,  then  in  modulation,  in  articulation,  and  pronunciation.  All 
these  points  are  treated  in  a  thoroughly  practical  manner.  A  vo- 
cabulary is  appended,  containing  some  thousands  of  words  com- 
monly mispronounced  in  one  way  or  another,  and  the  correct  pro- 
nunciation is  given  without  the  use  of  arbitrary  signs,  but  yet  in  a 
way  to  be  quite  unmistakable. 

Bishop  Vincent,  Chancellor  of  the  University  of  Chautauqua, 
writes  to  the  author:  "I  have  read  your  admirable  little  work  with 
great  interest,  and  shall  recommend  it  to  all  Chautauquans." 


My  Study  Fire. 


A  volume  of  essays  by  Hamilton  Wright  Mabie,  editor  01 
the  "  Christian  Union,"  author  of  "Norse  Stories  Retold  from. 
the  Eddas."     i2mo,  boards,  $1.25. 

Maroussia. 

A  Maid  of  Ukraine.  From  the  French  of  P.  J.  Stahl.  With 
ten  illustrations.  A  most  delightful  story,  crowned  by  the 
French  Academy.     i2mo,  cloth,  $1.00. 

The  Silver  Caves. 

By  Ernest  Ingersoll.  A  Mining  Story.  With  illustrations.- 
i2mo,  cloth,  $1.00. 

Wanneta  the  Sioux. 

By  Warren  K.  Moorehead,  of  the  Smithsonian  Institution. 
A  story  of  Indian  life  by  one  who  has  lived  in  the  tipis  of  the 
Sioux  nation,  and  writes  from  personal  knowledge.  With 
many  illustrations  of  Indian  life.     Octavo,  cloth,  $2.00. 


The  Jew. 


A  Novel,  by  Joseph  Ignatius  Kraszewski.  Translated 
from  the  Polish  by  Linda  de  Kowalewska,    121110,  cloth,  $1.50. 

Kraszewski,  the  great  Polish  dramatist,  archaeologist,  historian, 
publicist,  enriched  the  literature  of  his  country  with  more  than  a 
hundred  volumes.  Born  in  1812,  he  died,  a  political  exile,  in  1887, 
and  waa  buried  with  great  pomp  at  Cracow,  where  over  fifty  thou- 
sand people  assembled  at  his  obsequies  His  heart  rests  in  the 
Church  oft  St.  Croix  at  Warsaw,  the  place  of  his  birth,  where  also 
reposes  the  heart  of  Chopin,  the  musician. 

"The  Jew"  is  a  plea  for  Judaism  in  its  higher  spiritual  and 
moral  aspects.  It  is  at  the  same  time  a  remarkable  picture  of  the 
various  types  of  Jewish  character,  from  lowest  to  highest,  from  the 
almost  medievally  orthodox  to  the  modern  materialistic,  mercantile 
Jew.  The  story  is  laid  amid  the  last  uprising  of  the  Poles  in  the 
time  of  Napoleon  III. 

The  Gallant  Lords  of  Bois  Doree. 

By  George   Sand.     Translated   from  the  French  by  Steven. 

Clovis.  2  vols.,  i2mo,  cloth,  uniform  with  "Consuelo  "  $3.00. 
In  "  The  Gallant  Lords  of  Bois  Doree  "  George  Sand  has  given 
a  delightful  picture  of  the  manners,  ideas,  and  mode  of  life  of  the 
French  nobility  resident  upon  their  estates  in  the  first  half  of  the 
17th  century.  The  political,  social  and  domestic  relations  of  the 
times  are  so  interwoven  with  the  story  of  thrilling  personal  adven- 
ture that  the  tale  commands  the  unbroken  interest  of  the  historical 
student  as  well  as  of  the  lover  of  romance  and  combat. 

The  Household  of  McNeil 

A  Story  of  the  Scotch  Highlands.  By  Amelia  E.  Barr, 
author  of  "A  Daughter  of  Fife,"  "A  Border  Shepherdess,' 
"  The  Squire  of  Sandal  Side,"  etc.     i2mo,  cloth,  $1.25. 


Three  Years  in  Western  China. 

By  Alexander  Hosie.     Octavo,  illustrated,  $5.00. 

A  Memoir  of  Horace  Walpole. 

By  Austin  Dobson.      A  limited  edition  de  luxe,  printed  at 
the  De  Vinne  Press  from  type,  on  hand-made  linen  and  Japan 
paper,  and  illustrated  with  eleven  etchings  by  Percy  Moran, 
by  plates,  etc. 
This  volume  is  not  a  reprint,  b\ut  has  been  written  especially  for 
us,  and  we  are  its  sole  owners.     Large  octavo. 
425  Copies  on  Dickinson's  hand-made  paper.     $15.00. 
50  Copies  on  Japan  paper.     $20.00. 
4  Copies  on  vellum.     Price  on  application. 
These  479  copies  embrace  all  that  will  be  pnnted  of  this  editioa 
for  both  the  United  States  and  England. 


DODDy  MEAD  &  COMPANY'S  ANNOUNCEMENTS  FOR 
THE  AUTUMN  OF  i89o  —  CONTINUED. 


The  Devil's  Picture  Books. 


A  History  of  Playing  Cards.  By  Mrs.  John  King  Van 
Rensselaer.  Octavo,  with  16  full-page  plates  in  colours,  and 
numerous  illustrations  in  black  and  white.     $500 


A  Marriage  for  Love. 


A  Novel,  by  Charles  Reade.     With  a  frontispiece  in  photo- 
gravure, by  Wilson  de  Meza.     121110,  cloth,  gilt  top,  $1.25. 


By  Ludovic  Halevy,  author  of  "The  Abbe  Constantin," 
etc.  An  edition  de  luxe  with  twenty-three  full-page  illustra- 
tions reproduced  in  photogravure.  By  Wilson  de  Meza.  Uni- 
form in  size  with  the  quarto  edition  of  "  The  Abbe  Constantin." 
In  silk  portfolio,  $10.00. 
This  charming  story,  rivaling   "The  Abbe  Constantin"   in  its 

delicacy  and  purity,  will,  like  it,  be  noted  for  the  beauty  and  finish 

of  its  illustrations. 

The  Giunta  Series. 

A  new  series  intended  to  include  the  classics  of  literature  in  every 
department. 

Named  after  the  great  Florentine  printers  of  the  15th  century,  the 
father  and  son  Giunta,  the  books  will  be  made  at  the  University 
Press,  Cambridge,  on  type  imported  from  France,  and  will  be 
models  of  typographical  excellence. 

It  is  proposed  to  avoid  as  far  as  possible  what  may  be  called 
"  hack  classics" — books  to  be  found  in  every  popular  series.  The 
volumes  under  way  are  : 

Four  Frenchwomen. 

By  Austin  Dobson.  Small  i2mo,  cloth.  This  volume  em- 
braces sketches  of  Mademoiselle  de  Corday,  Madame  Roland, 
Madame  de  Genlis,  and  the  Princesse  de  Lamballe.  With  a 
portrait  of  Mademoiselle  de  Corday,  etched  by  Thomas  John- 
son.    i2mo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  $1.25. 

Christie  Johnstone. 

A  Novel,  by  Charles  Reade. 
gravure,  by  Wilson  de  Meza. 

The  Journal  of  Maurice  de  Guerin. 

Translated  from  the  French  by  Miss  Jessie  Frothingham. 
i2mo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  $1.25. 

Peg  Woffington. 

A  Novel,  by  Charles  Reade.  With  an  etched  portrait  by 
Thomas  Johnson.     i2mo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  $1.25. 

Desiree,   Queen  of  Sweden  and 
Norway. 

From  the  French  of  Baron  Hochschild,  by   Mis.   M.  Carey. 

i6mo,  cloth,  $1.25. 
A  memoir,  bringing  to  our  attention  one  of  the  greatest  romances 
of  history.  Desiree  Clary,  of  Marseilles,  at  the  age  of  fourteen  is 
betrothed  to  Joseph  Bonaparte;  Napoleon,  visiting  her  at  his 
brother's  request,  is  charmed  with  her,  and,  persuading  Joseph  to 
marry  her  sister,  becomes  betrothed  in  his  stead.  But  this  engage- 
ment falling  through,  by  reason  of  his  infatuation  for  Madame  de 
Beanharnais,  she  is  later  on  married  to  Bernadotte,  and  on  his  be- 
coming King  of  Sweden  is  elevated  to  royal  honours. 

The  Haunted  Pool. 

(La  Mare  au  Diable.)     From  the  French  of  George  Sand,  by 

Frank  Hunter  Potter.     Illustrated  with  fourteen  etchings  by 

Rudaux.     Quarto,  beautifully  bound,  $5.00. 

No  greater  contrast  can  be  imagined  than  between  "  Consuelu  " 

and  "  The  Haunted  Pool."     Abandoning  the  busy  haunts  of  men, 

with  their  strife  and  intrigues,  George  Sand  here  gives  us  a  rustic 

picture.     It  is  a  simple  tale  of  peasant  life  and  love,  told  with  a 

tender  sympathy. 


Battlefields  and  Campnres. 

Being  a  sequel  to  "  Battlefields  of  '61,"  and  carrying  forward 
the  story  of  the  War  for  the  Union.  By  Willis  J.  Abbot, 
author  of  "The  Blue  Jackets  of  '61,  of  1812,  of  '76."  Quarto, 
with  many  original  illustrations  by  W.  C.  Jackson.      Cloth, 

$3.00. 

In  the  series,  Great  Explorers  and  Explorations. 

Mungo  Park  and  the  Niger, 

By  Joseph  Thomson,  author  of  "Through   Masai   Land." 
i2mo,  cloth,  with  numerous  maps  and  illustrations,  $1.25. 
Other  volumes  in  this  series  wiU  be  announced  at  intervals.     Al- 
ready  published:    JOHN   DAVIS,    THE  NAVIGATOR.     By 
Clements    R.    Markham.      PALESTINE.     By  Major  R.    E. 
Conder.     Each  i2mo,  cloth,  illustrated,  $1.25. 

Ardis  Claverden. 

A  Novel,  by  Frank  R.  Stockton,  author  of  "Rudder 
Grange,"  "  The  Late  Mrs.  Null,"  "The  Great  War  Syndi- 
cate," "The  Stories  of  the  Three  Burglars,"  etc.  i2mo,  cloth, 
$1.50. 

This  novel  is  the  longest  and  most  important  of  the  author's 
works.  It  is  thoroughly  American,  the  scenes  being  laid  partly  in 
the  South  and  partly  in  New  York ;  but  there  is  introduced  into  it 
a  type  of  English  character  which  has  not  yet  been  used  in  fiction 
This  type  is  found  among  the  well-to-do  English  people  who  have 
adopted  certain  portions  of  Virginia  as  their  homes. 

The  story  contains  more  incident  than  any  other  of  the  author's 
novels.  The  adventures  are  of  a  varied  character,  including  a 
deadly  encounter  in  the  black  darkness  of  a  cave,  the  hanging  of 
horse  thieves,  a  duel,  and  other  scenes  of  dramatic  action. 

The  Delight  Makers. 

A  Novel  of  Pueblo  Indian  Life.  By  Adolf  F,  Bandelier. 
i2mo,  cloth,  $1.50. 
Of  this  novel  Dr.  Francis  Parkman  writes:  "Mr.  Bandelier, 
whom  I  have  known  many  years  from  his  connection  with  the 
American  Institute  of  Archaeology,  is  one  of  the  leading  ethnolo- 
gists and  archaeologists  on  this  continent.  In  some  departments, 
indeed,  he  has  no  equal.  Aside  from  literary  qualities,  his  novel, 
which  I  have  carefully  read,  has  a  great  scientific  value,  being  by 
far  the  best  picture  of  life  in  the  Pueblos  of  New  Mexico  that  has 
ever  been  made  public." 


Friend  Olivia, 


rhe 


By  Amelia  E.  Barr,  author  of  "Jan  Vedder's  \\  ife, 

Bow  of  Orange  Ribbon,"  etc.     121110,  cloth,  $1.25. 

This  story,  which  is  now  running  in  The  Century  Magazine 

will  be  offered  in  book  form,  uniform  with  Mrs.  Barr's  other  stories 


Fhe  Doctor's   Dilemma. 


A  Novel,  by  HESBA  Stretton.     121T10,  cloth,  $1  00 
At  the  same  time  a  new  edition  of  Hesba  Stretton"-,   stories,  in 
new  bindings.     i2mo,  cloth,  $1.00,  as  follows: 

BE  HE'S  CHARITY. 

IN  PRISON  AND  OUT. 

THROUGH  A  NEEDLE'S  EYE 

HESTER  MORLEY'S  PROMISE 
CAROLA. 

COBWEBS  AND  CABLES 

DAVID  LLOYD'S  LAST  WILL 


Elsie  Yachting. 

A  new  volume  in  the  Elsie  Series,  by  MARTHA  Finlev.    1  imo, 
cloth,  $1.25. 


DODD,  MEAD  &  COMPANY,  7s}  &  7ss  BROADWAY.  NEW-YORK 


AGENTS  WANTED  iu  every  City  and  Town  in  the  United  States  to  sell 

RECOLLECTIONS  OF  A  PRIVATE 

A  STORY  OF  THE  ARMY  OF  THE  POTOMAC, 

BY 

WARREN   LEE  GOSS, 


AUTHOR   OF 


"The  Soldier's  Story  of  his  Captivity  at  Andersonville  and  other  Prisons"; 
"  Jed:  a  Boy's  Adventures  in  the  Army  of  '61-65." 


Among  the  many  books  about  the  CIVIL  WAR  there  is  none  which  more  clearly  describes  what  took  place 
among  the  Rank  and  File  of  the  Union  Army,  while  on  the  march  or  on  the  battlefield,  than  the  story  given  by 
Mr.  Goss  in  this  volume. 

THE  EVERY-DAY  LIFE  OF  THE  SOLDIER,  THE  STORIES  TOLD  AROUND  THE 
CAMP-FIRE,  and  all  those  stirring  incidents  that  took  place  during  four  years  of  army  life,  are  brought  out 
in  the  most  vivid  manner,  so  that  the  reader  seems  to  be  a  participant  in  the  scenes  here  described. 

Written  in  a  simple,  clear  and  vivacious  style ;  abounding  in  dramatic  and  exciting  as  well  as  humorous 
situations ;  filled  with  the  spirit  of  good  humor  and  friendliness ;  faithful  to  historic  truth  ;  illustrated  with  over 
EIGHTY  SPIRITED  ENGRAVINGS  by  well-known  artists,  many  of  them  from  drawings  or  photographs 
made  on  the  field,  the  "  Recollections  OF  a  Private  "  makes  one  of  the  most  valuable,  as  it  certainly  is  one 
of  the  most  interesting,  of  all  the  accounts  of  the  GREAT  CIVIL  WAR. 

The  early  chapters  appeared  in  The  Century  Magazine,  and  attracted  great  attention,  not  only  in  this 
country,  but  also  in  England.  LORD  WOLSELEY,  Adjutant-General  of  the  British  Army,  recommended 
particularly  that  they  should  be  studied  for  their  importance  in  the  science  of  warfare. 

Mr.  Goss,  in  preparing  them  for  publication  in  book  form,  has  carefully  revised  them,  adding  an  immense  mass 
of  fresh  material,  so  that  the  whole  forms  a 

ISTORY    OF    THE    WAR, 

And  especially  of  the  Campaigns  of  the  Army  of  the  Potomac,  as  seen  by  one  who  served  in  the  ranks  throughout 
the  war,  and  who  ENDURED  THE  HARDSHIPS,  shared  in  the  defeats  and  triumphs  of  the  troops,  and  by  his 
shrewd  common  sense  and  military  knowledge,  acquired  in  the  school  of  experience,  was  able  wisely  to  judge  of 
the  merits  and  demerits  of  the  generals  in  command,  and  the  actions  and  tactics  employed. 

This  book  ought  to  be  in  every  household  in  the  land,  North  as  well  as  South. 

TO  THE  VETERANS  it  will  recall  with  vivid  interest  the  splendid  events  of  those  never-to-be-forgotten 
years. 

TO  THE  CHILDREN  of  the  country  it  will  portray,  as  few  books  do,  the  sacrifices  made  by  gallant  men 
in  preserving  the  Union. 

TO  THOSE  WHO  SERVED  in  the  Confederate  Army  it  will  come  as  a  revelation  of  the  spirit  of  brother- 
hood and  good  feeling  shared  by  a  majority  of  those  on  the  winning  side. 

It  is  a  work  which  will  increase  in  value  as  time  goes  on  gradually  removing  those  who  witnessed  the  stirring 
scenes  which  it  depicts. 

The  work  is  complete  in  one  Royal  Octavo  Volume  of  over  350  Pages,  printed  on  fine 
super-calendered  paper,  elegantly  bound,  and  will  be  sold  only  by  subscription. 

Agents  will  do  well  to  secure  Territory  at  once.    Full  information  furnished  upon  application  to  the  Publishers, 

THOMAS  Y.  CROWELL  &  GO. 

IOO    PURCHASE    STREET,    BOSTON. 


400  —  WARD    MCALLISTER'S  —  400 

BOOK   IS  NOW  IN  PEESS  POK  PUBLICATION  EAELY  IN  OOTOBEE. 

SOCIETY  AS  I  HAVE  FOUND  IT 

A   Volume  of  Anecdote  and  Reminiscence  by  WARD  MCALLISTER. 


With  portrait  of  the  author.      I  volume,  8vo  cloth,  unique  binding,  $2.00. 


Limited  to 

400 

Copies. 


An    EDITION    DE    LUXE,  on  large  paper,  limited  to  400 
copies,  each    one    numbered   and   signed   by  the  author 
and   containing   two    portraits,  etc.,  etc. —  will   be   issued 
at  same  time  —  price,  $10.00  per  copy. 


( 


Limited  to 

400 

Copies. 


The  Publishers  reserve  the  right  to  increase  price  of  this  edition  after  sale  of  200  copies,  without  further  notice. 

Mr.  Ward  McAllister  needs  no  introduction  to  the  American  public.  His  name  is  a  household  word  from  one  end 
of  this  country  to  the  other.  For  forty  years  he  has  been  a  conspicuous  man  of  fashion,  and  for  twenty  years  and  more 
he  has  been  a  leader  of  society  in  New -York  and  Newport,  and  he  is  known  far  and  near  as  the  inventor  of  "  the  four 
hundred."  In  this  book,  which  is  delightfully  written,  Mr.  McAllister  gives  his  experiences  in  the  social  world,  and  his 
pages  sparkle  with  reminiscence  and  scintillate  with  humor.  He  gossips  pleasantly  of  the  "  smart  set,"  and  while  thus 
recounting  his  experiences  he  deftly  weaves  in  an  amount  of  information  on  the  manners  and  customs  of  good  society 
that  is  not  to  be  found  elsewhere.  An  important  feature  of  this  book  will  be  the  appendix  containing  facsimiles  of  visiting 
cards,  invitations,  acceptances,  regrets,  etc.,  etc.,  covering  every  point,  all  taken  from  Mr.  McAllister's  own  card-basket. 


Ready  in  September. 

The  Anglomaniacs. 

A  story  of  New-York   society  to-day.     1  vol.,  i2mo, 
on  extra  fine  laid  paper,  dainty  binding,  $1.00. 

This  is  the  story  that  has  attracted  such  wide  attention  while  run- 
ning through  The  Century  Magazine.  The  name  of  the  author, 
is  withheld  from  the  public,  and  there  has  been  no  end  of  guessing 
at  its  authorship.  There  has  been  no  such  picture  of  New-York 
social  life  painted  within  the  memory  of  the  present  generation. 
The  satire  is  as  keen  as  a  rapier  point,  while  the  story  itself  has  its 
marked  pathetic  side.  Never  has  the  subject  of  Anglomania  been 
so  cleverly  treated  as  in  these  pages,  and  it  is  not  to  be  wondered 
at  that  society  is  deeply  agitated  as  to  the  authorship  of  a  story 
which  touches  it  in  its  most  vulnerable  part. 

Vengeance  is  Mine. 

A  Novel.     By  Daniel  Dane,     i   vol.,  i2mo,  cloth. 
$1.50. 

The  name  of  Daniel  Dane  is  a  new  one  to  fiction,  but  the  pub- 
lishers predict  that  it  will  not  long  remain  unknown.  The  plot  is 
original,  the  situations  are  new,  the  characters  are  drawn  with  a 
keen  appreciation  of  human  nature,  and  the  style  is  vigorous  and 
entertaining.  The  hero  of  the  story,  Arnold  North,  is  a  scientific 
man  of  high  standing  in  London,  who,  notwithstanding  his  devotion 
to  science,  finds  time  to  fall  in  love,  and  that,  too,  with  another  man's 
wife.  That  Arnold  North  will,  before  long,  become  one  of  the 
recognized  characters  of  fiction  there  can  be  but  little  doubt. 

Not  of  Her  Father's  Race. 

A    Novel.     By  William  T.  Meredith.      Paper,   50 
cents;  cloth,  75  cenls. 

This  is  a  striking  story  of  race — of  a  girl  with  a  white  father  and 
mulatto  mother,  who  inherits  the  characteristics  and  appearance  of 
her  father.  The  story  is  unlike  any  other  that  has  taken  the  ques- 
tion or  race  for  its  subject,  and  it  is  handled  with  a  bold  and  pic- 
turesque touch. 


Recent  Publications. 

The  Soul  of  Pierre. 

By  Georges  Ohnet,  author  of  "The  Master  of  the 
Forge,"  etc.  Translated  by  Mary  J.  Serrano,  trans- 
lator of  "  Marie  Bashkirtseff :  The  Journal  of  a  Young 
Artist,"  etc.  With  original  illustrations  by  F£mile 
Bayard.     Paper,   50  cents;   extra  cloth,   75  cents. 

.FINE  EDITION  with  all  the  original  illustrations  by 
Emile  Bayard,  the  volume  beautifully  printed  on  extra  paper 
made  specially  for  this  edition,  and  handsomely  bound  in  extra. 
cloth.     Gilt  top,  in  box,  $2.00. 

Ail  Artist's  Honor. 

Translated  by  E.  P.  Robins  from  the  French  of  Octave 
Feuillet,  author  of  "  The  Romance  of  a  Poor  Young. 
Man,"  etc.     Paper,  50  cents;  extra  cloth,  75  cents. 


Written  in  Red 


or,  The  Conspiracy  in  the  North  Case.  A  story 
of  Boston.  By  Charles  Howard  Montague  and 
C.  W.  Dyar.     Paper,  50  cents;  extra  cloth,  75  cents. 


Vivier, 


Of  Vivier,  Longman  &>  Co.,  Bankers.  By  W\  C.  Hudson 
(Barclay  North),  author  of  "Jack  Gordon,  Knight  Er- 
rant, Gotham,  1883,"  "The  Diamond  Button,"  etc. 
Paper,   50   cents;    cloth,    75   cents. 

Uranie. 


From  the  French  of  Camille  Flammarion.  By  Mary 
J.  Serrano,  translator  of  "  Marie  Bashkirtseff:  The 
journal  of  a  Young  Artist,"  etc.,  etc.  Paper,  50  cents; 
extra  cloth,  75  cents. 


CASSELL  PUBLISHING  COMPANY,  104  &  106  Fourth  Ave.,  N.  Y. 


S  Latest  Books. 


THE    STORY   OF  TONTY. 

Mi  Historical  Romance-  By  Mary  Hartwell  Cath- 
erwoou.      Illustrated  by  Enoch  Ward.      i2mo, 

$r*25-  ... 

"It  is  vivid  and  sparkling  from  cover  to  cover," — Baltimore 
A  merican. 

FACT,    FANCY,    AND   FABLE. 

A  Ready-reference  Handbook,       Compiled  by  Henry 

F„  Redd  all.     8vo,  half  leather,  $3.50. 

"  It  must  take  its  place  for  the  time  being  as  the  best  work  of  its 
kind  in  existence,  particularly  as  regards  American  topics," — IV.  Y. 

OPENING   THE   OYSTER. 

A  Story  of  Adventure.    By  Charles  L.  Marsh.    Pro- 
fusely illustrated.     Large  i2mo,  $1.75. 
"A  vivacious  and  thoroughly  entertaining  book." — Journal  of 

Education. 

IN   AND    AROUND    BERLIN. 

By  Minerva  B.  Norton.     i2mo,  $1.00. 

"  It  is  an  engaging  little  volume  packed  full  of  information,  read- 
able and  reliable." — Literary  World. 

SESAME   AND   LILIES. 

By  JOHN  Ruskin.     Finely  printed  and  bound.     i6mo, 

gilt  top,  $1.00. 

"  Other  editions  of  this  notable  and  popular  book  have  been 
printed,  but  none  so  tastefully  as  this." — New-York  Herald. 

AN   ICELAND    FISHERMAN. 

By  Pierre  Loti.  Translated  by  Anna  Farwell  de 
Koven.     i2mo,  $1.00. 

"  It  is  a  gem  of  literature." — Public  Opinion. 

A.    THIERS. 

By  Paul  de  Remusat,  Senator.  Translated  by  Prof. 
M.  B.  Anderson.  Great  French  Writers.  i2mo, 
$1.00. 

"  The  best  brief  biography  of  M.  Thiers  that  has  appeared." — 
Bulletin,  Phila. 

RUSSIA:    ITS    PEOPLE   AND    ITS   LITERA- 
TURE. 

By  Emilia  Pardo  Bazan.  Translated  from  the 
Spanish  by  Fanny  H.  Gardner.     i2mo,  $1.25. 

"  It  may  be  read  with  delight  because  it  is  transparent,  and  with 
profit  because  it  abounds  in  rare  information." — Methodist  Review. 

A    SHORT   HISTORY   OF   MEXICO. 

"By  Arthur  H.  Noll.     i6mo,  $1.00. 

"  For  convenience,  brevity,  and  the  consecutive  covering  of  the 
whole  ground  it  may  fairly  claim  to  be  the  only  work  of  the  kind  in 
die  English  language." — The  Indepe?ideni. 

A   FOREIGN   MATCH. 

Ey  Mme.  Bigot  (Mary  Healy).     i6mo,  $1.00. 

"  Miss  Healy  is  making  for  herself  a  name  that  bids  fair  to  place 
;her  among  the  first  writers  of  the  day." — Baltimore  A  merican. 

THE    LAUREL-CROWNED    TALES. 

Each  i6mo,  gilt  top,  $i.  oo. 
ABDALLAH;  or,  THE  FOUR-LEAVED  CLOVER. 
By  Edouard  Laboulaye.    Translated  by  Mary  L. 
Booth. 

RASSELAS,  Prince  of  Abyssinia.  By  Samuel  John- 
son. 

RAPHAEL ;  or,  Pages  of  the  Book  of  Life  at  Twenty. 
From  the  French  of  Lamartine. 

Other  volumes  to  follow. 

"  The  publishers  have  shown  excellent  discrimination  in  their 
choice  of  material  for  their  projected  library  of  choice  fiction,  and 
they  have  certainly  given  these  initial  volumes  a  form  that  bespeaks 
the  warmest  praise." — The  Beacon,  Boston. 


Sold  by  booksellers  generally,  or  mailed,  post-paid,  on  receipt  of 
price,  by  the  publishers, 

A.    C.    McCLURG    &    CO.    Chicago. 


A  New  Edition  de  Luxe  of 

CHARLES  DICKENS'S 

COMPLETE  WORKS. 

LIMITED  TO  f  OOO  NUMBERED  COPIES. 


Unquestionably  the  handsomest  edition  of  Dickens^s 
writings —  the  nearest  approach  to  the  highest  ideals  of  per- 
fection in  book-making — ever  attempted  in  this  country. 

The  type  is  from  a  new  font  especially  cast  for  it,  and 
never  used  for  any  other  purpose. 

The  paper — also  especially  made  for  it  —  combines  the 
qualities  of  excellence  in  finish  and  in  the  materials  ?iscd, 
with  a  lightness  of  weight  that  prevents  the  volume  from 
being  uncomfortably  heavy  to  hold  and  read. 

All  the  original  etchings  by  Cruikshank  and  others 
have  been  carefully  re-etched,  line  for  line,  from  brilliant 
original  proof  impressions,  and  proofs  taken  for  this  edi- 
tion on  Imperial  Japanese  paper.  The  wood  engravings 
are  printed  on  Japanese  paper  fro?n  electrotypes  never 
before  used,  furnished  by  Dickens 's  original  publishers. 

The  set  will  be  completed  in  4L5  volumes,  at  the  rate 
of  about  tivo  volumes  per  month. 

Price,  bound  in  vellum  cloth,  gilt  tops,  uncut,  $2, 50 

per  vol. 

J^5 'Issued  by  subscription  only,  and  no  orders  taken 
except  for  complete  sets.  Prospectus  tvith  specimen  show- 
ing type,  page,  paper,  etc.,  tvith  specimen  illustration, 
mailed  free  upon  application. 

Local  agents  wanted. 

BRYAN,  TAYLOR  &  CO., 

757  Broadway,  New-York. 

Rare  Engravings  and  Etchings. 

We  invite  attention  to  our  very  large  collection 
of  prints,  including  examples  of  all  the  principal 
Engravers  from  the  XVIth  Century  to  the  present 
time.  It  is  specially  rich  in  the  works  of  the  best 
portrait  engravers  such  as  Nanteuil,  Edelinck, 
Brevet,  Masson  and  Wille,  and  in  portraits  of 
lawyers.  Correspondence  invited.  Catalogue  No. 
7  {of  Modern  Etchings  only),  with  66  illus- 
trations, will  be  sent  on  receipt  of  10  cents. 

N.  B. — During  the  Summer  Season  our  branch 
store,  Grand  Union  Hotel,  Saratoga  Springs,  zvill 
be  open  as  usual. 

Frederick  Keppel  &*  Co. ,  20  East  1 6th  St. , 
(  Union  Square. )  New-  York  City. 

Unmounted     Photographs 

of  Ancient  and  Modern  Works 
of  Art,  embracing  reproduc- 
tions of  famous  original  paint- 
ings, sculpture,  architecture, 
etc.  Price,  cabinet  size,  $1.50 
per  dozen;  larger  sizes  in  pro- 
portion.     Lantern     Slides     to 

order.    Send  15  cents  for  1887  catalogue  and  1890 

supplement  of  12,000  subjects. 

Soule  Photograph  Co.  Publishers, 

338  Washington  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Principal  Agencies: 
E.  P.  Dutton  &  Co.   31  West  23d  Street,  N.  Y. 
M.  O'Brien  &  Son,  208  Wabash  Avenue,  Chicago. 
W.  K.  Vickery,  108  Grant  Avenue,  San  Francisco. 
Loughead  &  Co.  1016  Walnut  Street,  Philadelphia. 
Please  mention  The  Century. 


New-York,  Manlius. 

St.  John's  Military  School.   Was  founded  in 

1869  by  the  Rt.  Rev.  Frederic  D.  Huntington,  Bishop  of  Central 
New- York,  and  has  ever  since  been  a  successful  School  of  the 
highest  grade.  It  is  located  at  Manlius,  N.  Y.,  ten  miles  from 
Syracuse,  on  the  line  of  the  Syracuse,  Ontario  &  New-York  R.  R. 
The  situation  of  the  school  buildongs  is  on  high  ground,  with  excel- 
lent natural  drainage.  The  direct  locality,  as  well  as  the  region 
surrounding  it,  is  extremely  healthful.  Although  within  easy  access 
of  all  parts  of  the  country,  cadets,  by  its  location,  are  removed  from 
the  evil  influences  that  surround  larger  towns.  The  appointments 
of  the  school  edifice  are  unsurpassed.  It  was  recently  built  at 
great  expense  with  express  reference  to  educational  uses,  and  is 
provided  with  special  securities  against  accident  and  ill-health.  It 
has  all  the  modern  improvements,  is  heated  by  steam  and  lighted 
with  gas. 

Every  applicant  must  submit  to  the  Superintendent  satisfactory 
testimonials  of  good  moral  character.  We  owe  it  to  our  patrons  to 
accept  only  well-bred  high-minded  young  men. 

The  school  is  conducted  in  the  interest  of  the  highest  classical  and 
general  scholarship.  Its  great  object  has  always  been  to  prepare 
young  men  thoroughly  for  college.  As  a  finishing  school  it  is 
unexcelled. 

There  are  three  courses  of  study  —  a  course  in  Civil  Engineering, 
a  Classical  course,  a  Business  course. 

The  code  of  discipline  is  similar  to  that  of  West  Point,  modified 
after  a  careful  study  of  the  great  schools  of  England. 

The  strictest  attention  paid  to  morals  and  manners. 

Cavalry,  Artillery,  Infantry. 

PREPARATORY  SCHOOL. 

Boys  under  fourteen  years  of  age  form  the  Preparatory  Depart- 
ment^ and  are  completely  separated  from  the  older  boys.  The 
general  discipline  of  the  family  school  will  be  of  a  military  nature, 
but  the  strict  discipline  of  the  Academic  Department  will  be  tem- 
pered by  the  milder  management  of  the  well-conducted  household. 
Boys  of  this  department  may  avail  themselves  of  the  benefits  of  the 
Riding  School. 

Terms,  $450.00  per  annum. 

The  School  will  supply  all  bedding  and  linen.     No  extras. 

William  Verbeck,  Superintendent. 

New- YoRK,New- York,  No.  4  East  58th  Street. 

Mrs.  Salisbury's  School  for  Girls. 

Facing  Central  Park. 

New-York,  New-York,  19  and  21  East  14th  Street. 

Metropolitan  Conservatory  of  Music. 

Best  private  instruction  in  all  branches,  also  surrounds  pupils 
with  superior  advantages  in  Class  Work,  Lectures,  Concerts  and 
the  Languages.  Refined  boarding  privileges  for  lady  pupils. 
Dudley  Buck  and  Albert  Ross  Parsons  heading  departments. 
Opens  Sept.   15.     Pupils  received  at  any  time.     Book  sent  free. 

New- York,  New- York,  224  W.  58th  St.  (Central  Park). 

St.  Louis  College. 

Strictly  select  private  Catholic  School  for  boys. 
New-York,  New-York,  1961  Madison  Ave. 

Classical  School  for  Girls. 

Certificate  admits  to  Wellesley  and  other  Colleges.  Elective 
advanced  Courses.  Re-opens  Oct.  1st.  Unusual  advantages  for 
boarding  pupils.  Miss  North  and  Miss  Barnes,  Principals. 

New-York,  New- York,  31  West  42d  St.,opp.  Bryant  Park. 

Miss  Crocker  and  Miss  Beck. 

School  for  Girls.     Rc-opcns  October  1.     Classes  for  Boys. 
New-York,  New- York,  Lyceum  Theater  Building. 

American   Academy  of  the  Dramatic 

Arts.     The  next  Academic  Year  begins  Oct.  27. 

For  particulars,  address  the  Secretary. 

New-York,  New-York,  260  W.  54th  St. 

Feeble-Minded  Children  trained. 


Circulars  sent.     Thirteenth  year. 


Oct.  '90. 


Mrs.  E.  M.  Seguin,  Principal. 


New- York,  New- York,  63  Fifth  Avenue. 

The  Misses  Graham 

(Successors  to  the  Misses  Green),  Boarding  and  Day  School  for 
Young  Ladies. 

Established  in  1816. 

This  school  continues  the  careful  training  and  thorough  instruc- 
tion, in  every  department,  for  which  it  has  hitherto  been  so 
favorably  known.     Re  opens  Wednesday,  October  1. 

New-York,  New- York,  233  Lenox  Ave. 

The  New-York  Collegiate  Institute. 

A  Rugby  for  Girls.  Primary,  Academic  and  Collegiate  depart- 
ments.    Especial  attention  to  Physical  Training. 

Rev.  Alfred  C.  Roe,  Principal. 
New-York,  New-York,  9  West  14th  Street. 

The  Bryant  School  for  Stammerers. 

For  the  correction  and  cure  of  stammering  and  all  nervous  de- 
fects of  speech.  Successful  since  1879.  Information,  and  testi- 
monials from  eminent  men  and  pupils  on  application. 

New-York,  New-York  City,  242  West  Seventy-fourth  St. 

Collegiate  Grammar  School. 

Classical,  Intermediate,  Primary  Departments  for  Boys  and  Girls. 
Large  Gymnasium.     Re-opens  September  29. 

Lemuel  C.  Mygatt,  A.  M.,  Head  Master. 

New-York,  New- York,  23  Warren  St. 

Instruction  at  Home  by  Mail,  courses  in 

Perspective  Drawing,  Architectural  Design,  and  Decorative  Art. 
$25  to  $50  per  annum,  according  to  number  of  assignments.  For 
full  particulars  apply  to  C.  Powell  Karr,  Architect. 

New-York,  New-York,  117  and  119  W.  125th  St. 

The  Barnard  School. 

Ten  boarding  students  received  in  head-master's  family,  enjoying 
all  home  privileges.  Prepares  for  any  college  or  business.  Send 
for  catalogue.  Win.  L.  Hazen,  B.  A.,  LL.  B. 

New-York,  Brooklyn,  140  and  142  Columbia  Heights. 

The  Misses  Ely's  School  for  Girls 

will  re-open  October  1,  1890. 

New-York,  Brooklyn,  138-140  Montague  St. 

The  Brooklyn  Heights  Seminary. 

Boarding  and  Day  School  for  Girls.  40th  year.  Opens  Sept. 
25th.     Students  prepared  for  college.     Address  for  circulars. 

New- York,  Poughkeepsie. 

Eastman  Business  College. 

Open  all  the  year.  A  live  school  for  the  training  of  live  business 
men.  Persons  of  both  sexes  taught  to  earn  a  living  and  carefully 
prepared  for  honorable  positions.  Thorough  instruction  in  Bojk- 
keeping,  Banking,  Commercial  Law,  Penmanship,  Correspond- 
ence, Arithmetic,  etc.;  Telegraphing,  Stenography,  Typewriting, 
etc.  Business  men  supplied  with  competent  assistants  on  short 
notice.  No  charge  for  situations  furnished.  Terms  reasonable. 
Time  short.     For  information  address 

Carrington  Gaines,  President. 

New- York,  Utica. 

Mrs.  Piatt's  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

The  next  school  year  begins  Wednesday,  September  24,  1S90. 
Applications  should  be  made  early. 

New- YORK,  Bingham  ton. 

The  Lady  Jane  Grey  School. 

Mrs.  Hyde  and  Daughters1  Home  School  for  Young  Ladies  and 
Little  Girls.  Special  and  regular  courses.  Prepares  for  College 
and  European  travel.  Address  Mrs.  Jane  Grey  Hyde. 

New  Jersey,  Burlington. 

St.     Mary'S     Hall,     The  oldest  Church  School  in  the 

country  for  Girls,  will  begin  its  54th  School  Year  on  Sept.  29. 
For  catalogue,  apply  to  the  Principal,  Miss  Charlotte  TlTCOMB, 
or  to  the  Bishop  of  New  Jersey,  the  President. 

New  Jersey,  Burlington. 

Burlington  College.   Wai  be  reorganized  as  * 

School  for  Boys,  preparing  for  the  best  Colleges  and  for  Busings. 

It  will  open  Sept.  29.  The  Bishop  of  New  Jersey,  Visitor.  For 
information,  address  Rev.  C.  W.  DuANE,  A.  M.,  Principal. 

Niw  Jkksky,  Freehold. 
Freehold  Institute.      Established  1844. 

College  preparation  a  specialty.  Family  school  lot  boys.  Primary, 
High  School  and  Classical  Courses.     Gymnasium. 

A.  A.  Chambers,  A.  M. 


New  Jersey,  New  Brunswick. 

The  Misses  Anable's  Boarding  School 

for   Young   Ladies.     Will  re-open    September   24th.     Students 
prepared  for  College. 

Massachusetts,  Amherst. 

The  Terrace. 

Home  School  for  Nervous  and  Delicate  Children  and  Youth. 
Mrs.  W.  D.  Herkick,  Principal. 


Massachusetts,  Boston. 

School  of  Drawing  and  Painting  and 

Department  of  Decorative  Design.  Museum  of  Fine  Arts. 
For  circulars  or  further  information,  address  the  School. 

Massachusetts,  Boston,  5  Otis  Place. 

Mr.  Hale's  School  for  Boys.  The  eighth  year 

begins  Sept.  24.     Prepares  for  Harvard  College  and  the  Institute  of 
Technology  on  the  same  course  of  study.     Physical  science  and 
modern  languages  the  prominent  featuies.    Address  Albert  Hale. 
Massachusetts,  Boston,  Huntington  Avenue. 

Tremont  College  of  Music. 

Music,  Elocution,  Languages,  English  Branches  and  Painting. 
Fifty  Teachers.  Board  for  Lady  Pupils  from  $5  to  $7.50.  Tuition, 
$6  to  $60.     Prospectus  free.  F.  E.  Bruce,  President. 

Massachusetts,  Billerica. 

Mitchell's  Boys'  School,  l8  miles  from  Boston 

and  6  miles  from  Lowell  on  the  Boston  and  Lowell  R.  R.  A  Select 
Fami'ly  School  for  Boys,  aged  from  7  to  15,  inclusive.  Send  for 
circular  to  M.   C.   Mitchell,  A.  M.,  Principal. 

Massachusetts,  Springfield. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  McDuflie, 

Successors  to  Miss  Catharine  L.  Howard  in  her  SCHOOL 
FOR  GIRLS.     Address 

Mrs.  John  McDuffie,  care  of  Miss  Catharine  L.  Howard. 

Massachusetts,  Springfield. 

Home  and  Day  School  for  Girls. 

"  The  Elms."  Miss  Porter,  Principal.  Certificate  admits  to 
Vassar,  Wellesley  and  Smith.     Quincy  method  for  children. 

Massachusetts,  Duxbury,  Powder  Point. 
POWder     Point     SchOOl.       Prepares  for  Scientific 
School,  College  or  Business.     Advanced  Mathematics,  Physical  and 
Chemical   Laboratories.      The  boys   are   members   of  the  family. 
Number  limited. Frederick  B.   Knapp,  S.  B.  (M.  1.  T.) 

Massachusetts,  Plymouth. 

Mr.  Knapp's  Home  School  for  Boys. 

Twenty-fourth  year  begins  Oct.  1,  1890.  Mrs.  Knapp,  Principal; 
H.  B.  Learned  (Harvard),  Head-master. 

Connecticut,  Fairfield  Co.,  Brookfield  Centre. 

The  Curtis  School  for  ( 1 4)  Boys.    $500. 

i6th  year.  My  50-page  circular  tells  what  education  means  for 
a  boy  here.  Formation  of  character  stands  first  with  us.  No  new 
boy  over  fifteen.  Frederick  S.  Curtis,  Ph.  B.  (Yale,  '69.) 

Connecticut,  Stamford. 

Miss  Aiken's  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Thirty-fifth  Year.  Prepares  for  College  or  Harvaid  Examinations 
for  Women.  Number  limited  to  24.  Miss  Aiken's  Methods  for 
Mind-Trainingand  Concentration  at  Brentano's,  Union  Square,  N.Y. 

Connecticut,  Stamford. 

Miss  Low's  School  for  Girls. 

Re-opens  September  24th.     Circulars  on  application. 
Connecticut,  Greenwich. 

Academy  and  Home  for  Ten  Boys. 

Academy,  65th  Year;   Home,  nth.     Preparation  for  business  or 
college.     Absolutely  healthful  location  and  genuine  home,  with  re- 
fined surroundings.     References  required.     J.  H.  Root,  Principal. 
Connecticut,  New  London. 

Backward  and  Invalid  Boys. 

The  undesigned,  an  experienced  physician  and  teacher,  makes 
the  care  and  education  of  such  boys  a  specialty.  Location  unsur- 
passed for  beauty  and  health.     Address  Dr.  Williamson. 

Connecticut,  New  Haven,  West  End  Institute. 

Mrs.  Cady's  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Institute  Course  of  Study  and  College  Preparatory  Course.  Ad- 
mits to  either  Smith,  Vassar  or  Wellesley  by  Certificate.  Circulars. 
Early  application  necessary. 


Connecticut,  New  Haven. 

Chautauqua  College. 

Thorough  Systematic  Home  Study. 
Lewis  Miller,  Pres.  J.  H.  Vincent,  Chan.  W.  R.  Harper,  Prin. 

LATIN,  1.  Studies  guided,  instructions 

GREEK,  given,  papers  corrected  by 

ENGLISH,  correspondence. 

CERMAN  2"  Faculty  composed  of   pro- 

'  fessors  in  leading  American 

FRENCH,  Colleges 

MATHEMATICS,  3.  Students  take  full  College 

PSYCHOLOGY,  courses  or  special  branches. 

ETHICS  4-  Preparatory        Department 

HISTORY  ^or  tnose  unprepared  to  do 

POLITICAL  ECONOMY,  5.  gjjjg  ^itlhe  student. 

THE  SCIENCES,  Etc.  6.   Prices  low. 

For  information  in  regard'  to  courses  of  study  and  methods  of 
work,  address 

John  H.  Daniels,  Registrar. 

Connecticut,  Simsbury. 

McLean  Seminary. 

Home  School.  Young  Ladies.  Beautiful  and  healthful  location. 
Three  hours  from  New-York.  Half-hour  from  Hartford.  Address 
Rev.  J.  B.  McLean. 

Ohio,  Gambier. 

Harcourt  Place  Seminary. 

A  seminary  for  young  ladies  and  girls.  Established  upon  original 
lines,  its  growth  has  been  remarkable.  Admirable  location.  Ele- 
gant new  building.  Exceptionally  strong  faculty.  Superior  equip- 
ment and  comprehensive  character.  Thorough  preparation  for  the 
best  American  colleges  for  women,  or  a  complete  course.  The  next 
school  year  will  begin  September  24,  1890.  For  illustrated  cata- 
logues address  the  Principal,  Miss  Ada  I.  Aver,  B.  A. 


Ohio,  Gambier. 

Kenyon  Military  Academy. 

A  select  school  for  boys.  67th  year  will  begin  September  17, 
1890.  Location  of  rare  beauty  and  healthfulness,  on  a  hill-top, 
eleven  hundred  feet  above  sea  level.  Elegant  buildings.  Masters 
all  college  graduates  and  teachers  of  tried  efficiency.  Thorough 
preparation  for  College  or  Business.  Careful  supervision  of  health, 
habits  and  manners.  Particular  attention  paid  to  the  training  of 
young  boys.  Remarkable  growth  during  the  past  four  years. 
Large  new  gymnasium  and  drill  hall.  For  catalogues  address  the 
Rector,  Lawrence  Rust,  LL.  D. 

Ohio,  Cincinnati,  Mt.  Auburn. 

ML  Auburn  Institute.   Established  Is56. 

French  and  English  Home  School  for  Young  Ladies.  History 
and  Literature  a  Specialty.  Careful  Home  Training  and  Social 
Culture.  Best  Music  and  Art  advantages.  European  vacation 
parties.     For  illustrated  catalogue,   address 

H.  Thane  Miller. 

Ohio,  Cincinnati,  S.  E.  Cor.  4th  and  Lawrence  Streets. 

Cincinnati  Conservatory  of  Music. 

Miss  Clara  Baur,  Directress.  Established  1867.  Day  and 
Boarding  Pupils  can  enter  at  any  time  during  the  school  year  and 
summer  term.     For  Catalogue,  address Miss  Clara  Baur. 

Ohio,  Cincinnati. 

The   College  of  Music  of  Cincinnati, 

endowed  by  the  late  R.  R.  Springer  and  associates,  is  not  a  school 
conducted  for  profit,  but  is  a  public  institution  whose  entire  in- 
come is  devoted  to  instruction  and  cultivation  in  the  art  of  music 
and  collateral  branches,  such  as  dramatic  action,  modern  languages 
and  elocution.  It  is  open  throughout  the  year  and  pupils  may  enter 
any  day,  but  are  advised  to  come  September  1. 

The  College  Buildings  adjoin  the  magnificent  Musie  Hall 
and  contain  forty  class  and  study  rooms,  libraries,  waiting- 
rooms,  offices  and  a  large  and  beautiful  concert  hall,  "The 
Odeon,"  seating  twelve  hundred  persons,  with  a  thoroughly 
equipped  stage,  and  "The  Lyceum,"  a  smaller  hall  for 
lectures,  recitalsand  chamber  music.  In  each  hall  is  an  organ. 
For  catalogue  and  other  information,  address  Peter  Rudolph 
Neff,  President,  College  of  Music,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


Circulars  of 
Mr.  F.  G.    Paulson, 

441   Wood  St. 

PITTSBURGH,         -        PA. 


Mr.  Neal  Farnham, 
First  Nat.  Bank  B'ld'g, 

MINNEAPOLIS,    -    MINN. 


Circulars   of 

Mr.    W.    J.    Wilcox, 

126  Washington  St. 

'"HICAGO,  -  ILL. 


lgS':  Mr.   G.   B.  Sterling, 
52  Dey  St. 


NEW-YORK. 


PENNSYLVANIA  MILITARY  ACADEMY,   CHESTER,  PA. 

A  MILITARY  COLLEGE.    Degrees  in  Civil  Engineering,  Chemistry,   Architecture  and  Arts. 

Thorough  Work  in  Laboratories,  Drafting-room  and  Field.     Military  system  second  only  to  that  of  the  U.  S.  M.  A. 
A  Preparatory  Department.     Best  Moral,  Mental  and  Physical  Training.     Spacious  Buildings  ;  Extensive  Equipment. 
Twenty-ninth  Session  opens  September  17,  i8qo.  Circulars  of  Col.  Charles  E.   Hyatt,  President. 


Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  Chestnut  Hill. 

Mrs.  Comegys  and  Miss  Bell's  Eng~ 

lish,  French  and  German  Boarding  School  for  Young  Ladies 
re-opens  Sept.  29,  1890.     Students  prepared  for  College. 
Ample  grounds  for  outdoor  exercise. 

Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  1700  Green  Street. 

Miss  Boyer's  English,  French  &  Music 

School.  For  Boarding  and  Day  Pupils.  Music  department  in 
charge  of  Miss  E.  P.  Sherwood,  and  under  the  supervision  of  Mr. 
William  H.  Sherwood. 

Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  Germantown. 
WalnUt  Lane  SchOOl,  Formerly  Madame  Clement's 
—  Boarding  and  Day  School  for  Young  Ladies.     34th  year  opens 
Sept.  24.     Academical  and  college  preparatory  courses. 
Mrs.  T.  B.  Richards,  Prin.  Miss  S.  L.  Tracy,  A.  M.,  Assoc.  Prin. 

Pennsylvania,  Montgomery  Co.,  Ogontz. 

Ogontz  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Established  in  1850,  removed  in  1883  from  Chestnut  St.,  Phila- 
delphia, to  Ogontz,  the  spacious  country  seat  of  Jay  Cooke.  For 
circulars,  apply  to  Principals. 

Pennsylvania,  Bustleton,  near  Philadelphia. 

St.  LUKe  S  SChOOl.  A  high-class  school.  Exception- 
ally healthful  location.  Prepares  for  any  College  or  business.  Boys 
sent  this  year  to  Yale,  Harvard  and  Princeton.  Special  care  of 
younger  boys.     Number  limited. Chas.  H.   Strout,   Prin. 

Pennsylvania,  Bryn  Mawr. 

Bryn  Mawr  College,   a  college  for  women. 

Bryn  Mawr,  Pa.,  ten  miles  from  Philadelphia.  Offers  graduate  and 
undergraduate  courses  in  Sanskrit,  Greek,  Latin,  Mathematics, 
English,  Anglo-Saxon,  French,  Old  French,  Italian,  Spanish, 
Celtic,  German,  including  Gothic  and  Old  High  German,  History, 
Political  Science,  Physics,  Chemistry,  Biology  and  lectures  on 
Philosophy.  Gymnasium  with  Dr.  Sargent's  apparatus  complete. 
Fellowships  (value  $450)  in  Greek,  English,  Mathematics,  History 
and  Biology.     For  Program,  address  as  above. 

Michigan,  Orchard  Lake. 

Michigan  Military  Academy. 

A  College  Preparatory  School  of  the  highest  grade.  Location 
thirty  miles  from  Detroit,  and  unsurpassed  for  beauty  and  health- 
fulness.     For  catalogue,  address  Col.  J.  S.  Rogers,  Supt. 


Ohio,  Columbus,  151  East  Broad  St. 

Miss  Phelps's   English   and   Classical 

School  for  Young  Ladies.  Special  advantages  in  Language, 
Literature,  Music,  Art,  Home  and  Social  Culture.  Fall  term  begins 
September  25,  1890.     New  School  Building. 

Ohio,  Cleveland,  1020  Prospect  Street. 

Miss  Mittleberger's  School  for  Girls. 

Re-opens  September  25.  Certificate  admits  to  Wellesley, 
Smith  and   Vassar. 

District  of  Columbia,  >  1407  Massachusetts  Avenue,  and 
Washington.  5*212  and  1214  Fourteenth  Street. 

Norwood  Institute. 

A  Select  Boarding  and  Day  School  for  Young  Ladies  and  Little 
Girls,  situated  on  "Highland  Terrace,"  the  highest  poiiu  in  the  city. 
Connecting  houses.  Large,  pleasant  grounds.  Academic,  Collegi- 
ate, Elective  courses  of  study  under  a  large  corps  of  able  and  eminent 
instructors.  The  personal  training  and  the  privileges  of  home. 
Music  and  Modern  Languages  specialties  of  the  school. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  D.  Cabell,  Principals. 

Canada,  Ontario,  London. 


\2-  _^T&- 

HellmUth    College.     2-d  year  begins  Sept.  10,  1890. 
One  of  the  most   complete   institutions  in  America  for  the  edu- 
cation of  Young  Ladies.     Literature,  Music,  Art,  Elocution,  etc. 
Illustrated  Circulars  sent  on  application.     Address 

Rev.  E.  N.  English,  M.  A.,  Principal. 


"Education    Ends    Only    With    Life." 


Chautauoua  Literary  and  Scientific  Circle. 

Systematic  Home  Reading  Directed  by  Weil-Known  Men. 
Winter  of  1890-91   (Thirteenth   Year).     English  Language,  History  and  Literature, 

Geology,  French  Letters. 

The  following  writers  will  contribute  the  readings: 
Edward  Freeman,  Harriet  P.  Spofford,  George  P.  Fisher,  Alexander Winchell, 


Henry  A.  Beers, 


W.  C.  Wilkinson,  A.  S.  Hill, 

William  Dowden  (Dublin  University),  and  others. 


Woodrow  Wilson, 


The  C.  L.  S.  C.  is  a  definite  intelligent  plan  for  aiding  the  ambitious  and  persevering  to   read  systematically  and 
to  think  closely  and  connectedly.     Over  150,000  have  been  enrolled. 

Write  for  information  to  JOHN    H.  VINCENT,  Drawer  194,  Buffalo,  X.  Y. 


DIAMOND    RINGS. 

The  buyer  of  a  diamond,  if  he  intend  spending  a  large 
sum,  usually  feels  confident  of  obtaining  a  fine  stone  that 
will  fully  represent  and  warrant  his  outlay.  Among  those 
who  have  in  view  a  more  modest  expenditure,  it  is  fre- 
quently evident  that  the  case  is  not  quite  so  clear  Doubt 
is  often  felt  whether  the  sum  intended  to  be  spent  will  buy 
a  stone  of  sufficient  size  and  beauty  to  meet  the  purchaser's 
desires,  or  to  suit  the  requirements  of  the  occasion.  Such 
doubt  is  usually  removed  by  an  examination  of  a  full  and  carefully  chosen  stock  of  precious 
stones.  It  is  seen  that  the  large  outlay  secures,  as  it  should,  a  proportionate  return.  But  it  is 
seen,  also,  that  a  moderate  outlay  will  command  jewels  of  unexceptionable  quality  and  beauty. 

Purchasers  are  as  a  rule  surprised  at  the  beauty  and  effectiveness  of  single-stone  diamond 
rings  that  may  be  had,  for  example,  at  $50,  $60,  $75,  etc.,  and  so  on  up  to  $150,  $200,  etc. 
To  any  one  in  doubt  whether  the  outlay  of  such  sums  will  secure  a  ring  worth  considering,  it 
may  be  said  that  there  are  few  purchases  of  any  kind  that  afford  a  fuller,  more  satisfying  return 
for  the  amount  expended.  The  variety  of  rings  obtainable  at  these  prices  is  very  great.  They 
may  be  set  with  a  single  diamond,  or  with  two  diamonds,  or  with  a  diamond  and  a  ruby,  or  a 
diamond  and  a  sapphire,  or  a  diamond  and  an  emerald,  or  a  sapphire,  or  other  colored  stone, 
with  two  diamonds,  etc. 

Correspondents  at  a  distance  can  buy  as  advantageously  as  if  dealing  in  person.  At  any 
price  that  may  be  named,  a  stone,  or  stones,  of  the  requisite  value  will  be  chosen  and  set,  and 
the  ring  sent  subject  to  return,  and  to  the  refunding  of  the  payment  if  it  prove  in  any  degree 
unsatisfactory.  This  method  creates  an  identity  of  interest  between  dealer  and  buyer,  and 
the  latter  is  often  served  more  fully  to  his  satisfaction  than  he  could  be  in  selecting  for  him- 
self from  a  bewildering  variety  of  goods  that  distract  the  attention,  and  tempt  him  from  his 
original  purpose.  THEODOEE    B.    STARR, 

No.     906    Fifth.    Avenue,     Madison.    Square,    New    York. 


Standard  -~\^  Flavoring 

»Oa  HlbHLY  <•<> 


ABSOLUTELY    PURE. 

FULL    MEASURE. 

No  cartoons  to  hide  long-necked  and  panelled  bottles. 


Thoughtful  people  shou'd   read  the  testi- 
monials below,  from  cooks  of 
national  reputation. 

Joseph  Burnett  &  Co.,  Boston: 

Gentlemen, — I  have  used  your  Extracts  for  years,  know- 
ing tlieui  the  best  to  be  found  in  trie  market. 

MARIA  PARLOA, 
School  of  Cookery,  Tremont  Street. 


From  Professor  Blot. 

A  good  dish  is  often  spoiled  or  rendered  unpalatable  by 
the  use  of  a  detestably  cheap,  impure  and  deleterious 
Flavoring  Extract. 

In  answer  to  inquiries  from  the  ladies  of  my  various 
classes,  1  invariably  reply  that  during  the  past  two  years 
of  my  lectures  on  cookery,  "  I  certainly  prefer  tho?e  pre- 
pared by  Joseph  Burnett  &  Co.,  of  Boston,  above  all 
others." 


There   is   no   Nourishment 

'n  Tea  or  Coffee,  but  plenty  in 


COC 


ESPECIALLY    IN 

VAN  HOOT 

which  is  rapidly  supplanting  tea  and  coffee  as  a  national 
beverage.  Van  Houten's  Cocoa  is  universally  de- 
clared to  be  perfectly  pure,  free  from  fat,  easily  digested, 
delicious  to  the  taste,  nutritious,  and  a  stimulant  with- 
out any  depressing  after-effects. 

It  was  introduced  into  the  household  of  the  late  Em- 
peror of  Germany  upon  high  recommendation.  The 
senior  physician  of  the  London  Court  Hospital  has  used 
this  brand  of  Cocoa  for  many  years.  It  is  strongly 
recommended  to  Students  and  all  whose  duties  involve 
much  wear  and  tear,  whether  mental  or  physical.  For 
these  reasons  it  has  earned  the  highest  encomiums  of 
the  leading  analysts  of  the  day. 

Van  Houten's  Cocoa  —  Best  and  Goes  Farthest. 
It  only  needs  a  single  trial  to  convince  any  one  of  the  superiority 
of  Van  Houten's  Cocoa.  Please  insist  upon  your  grocer  or  store- 
keeper ordering  it  for  you,  and  take  no  substitute.  It  is  put  up  in 
one-quarter,  one-half,  and  one-pound  cans.  If  not  obtainable,  en- 
close 25  cents  in  stamps  or  postal  note  to  either  Van  Houten  & 
Zoon,  106  Reade  Street,  New- York,  or  45  Wabash  Avenue,  Chica- 
go, and  a  Can  of  this  most  delightful  Cocoa  will  be  sent  by  mail. 
Prepared  only  by  Van  Houten  &  Zoon,  Weesp-Holiand. 

VAN  HOUTEN'S  COCOA—  ONCE  TRIED  ALWAYS  USED. 


PHOTOGRAPHED    BV   PACH    BROTHERS. 


ENGRAVED  BY  G.    KRUELL. 


The  Century  Magazine. 


Vol.  XL. 


OCTOBER,   1890. 


No.  6. 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS    IN     HIGH     SAVOY. 


ais  vous  etes  drole  1 " 
The  wife  of  the  keeper 
of  the  dirty  little  inn 
at  Bioge  was  a  stal- 
wart specimen  of  the 
Savoyard  peasant 
woman,  quite  over- 
topping our  young 
professor,  who  was 
essaying  to  know  in 
advance  what  we  should  have  to  pay  for  a 
lunch  for  four  of  us.  The  professor  is  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Alpine  Club,  and  the  Alpine  Club 
men  have  learned  by  experience  the  propriety 
of  knowing  beforehand  the  charges  of  an  inn- 
keeper. We  had  walked  from  Thonon  on 
Lake  Geneva  since  eleven  o'clock, —  it  was 
now  two, —  and  the  journey  between  the  pict- 
uresque cliffs,  where  breezes  do  not  blow, 
had  made  us  hungry,  else  we  should  never 
have  invaded  the  uninviting  tavern  at  Bioge 
with  a  request  for  dinner. 

"  What  will  you  charge  for  a  lunch  for  these 
two  young  ladies,  this  gentleman,  and  myself — 
four  of  us  ?  "  said  the  professor,  walking  boldly 
into  the  sanctum  of  pots  and  kettles,  where 
stood  the  rugged  woman  with  a  copper  ladle 
held  like  a  club  ready  for  use. 

"  But  you  are  a  queer  one  !  "  she  cried  deri- 
sively. "  How  can  I  tell  how  much  you  will 
eat  ?  " 

For  a  moment  I  feared  that  my  companion 
would  receive  from  the  ladle  a  blow  on  the  side 
of  his  head.  1  le  stood  his  ground  manfully  for 
a  while  againstthe  giantess,  but  we  were  obliged 
at  length  to  take  our  bread  and  eggs  and  goat's 
milk  without  knowing  beforehand  what  they 
would  cost.  The  milk  was  foaming  fresh  from 
the  goat  and  innocent  of  all  pharisaical  strain- 
ing, which  in  that  place  was  better.  When 
Copyright,  1890,  by  The  Cent 


we  had  exhausted  our  pitcher  of  it  I  asked 
the  solemn  landlord,  whom  the  young  folks 
had  dubbed  "  The  Sexton,"  if  there  was  yet 
another  goat;  whereupon  he  smiled  reluct- 
antly and  went  for  a  second  pitcherful  fresh 
from  its  source.  We  ate  and  drank  merrily, 
paid  our  three  francs,  wished  the  surly  land- 
lady a  good  morning,  and  started  on  up  the 
eastern  branch  of  the  Dranse,  through  cliffs 
that  were  wild  indeed  and  where  there  were 
no  roads  as  yet  for  wheels.  We  were  now  off 
the  lines  of  travel  and  fairly  away  from  guide- 
books. 

We  passed  engineers  and  workmen  building 
a  road,  and  if  the  tourists  do  not  learn  to  drive 
up  this  valley  after  the  road  is  completed  it  will 
be  only  another  illustration  of  the  dullness  of 
the  traveling  public.  This  first  dash  into  the 
out-of-the-way  mountains  produced  a  great 
exhilaration ;  we  strolled  on  through  glens  and 
gorges,  stopping  now  and  then  to  roll  rocks 
into  the  stream,  or  resting  by  some  brook  that 
tumbled  down  towards  us  in  pretty  cascades, 
and  we  were  inclined  to  call  this  Valley  of 
Abondance  the  finest  walk  known.  But  the 
following  days  quite  effaced  this  impression  by 
giving  us  even  nobler  glens. 

A  heavy  rain  drove  us  into  a  sort  of  chalet. 
the  human  quarter  of  which  was  but  one  small 
room;  the  rest  belonged  to  the  "gentlemen 
that  paid  the  rent,"  as  we  discovered  by  the 
sounds  that  reached  us.  A  woman  and  a 
strange-looking  little  girl  were  earing  bread  in 
goat's  milk  upon  our  arrival,  and  space  was  made 
for  us  on  two  stools  and  a  bench.  The  Savoy- 
ard is  hospitable,  will  share  his  bench  or  his 
loaf  with  you,  but  he  wastes  no  force  in  efforts 
at  suavity.  His  speech  is  rude  and  brusk, 
he  uses  the  French  with  some  reluctance,  and 
likes  better  to  talk  to  one  of  his  own  kind  in 
rv  Co.     All  rights  reserved. 

803 


8  04 


0  UT-OF-THE-  WA  YS  IN  HIGH  SA  VO  Y. 


CHILLON     FROM    THE     BALCONY    WHERE    THE    AUTHOR     WROTE    THE    ARTICLE 

the  familiar  patois  of  his  mountains.  The 
woman  preferred  to  stand  up  that  the  strang- 
ers might  sit,  but  she  answered  our  questions 
with  reserve.  The  child  had  the  appearance 
of  being  not  more  than  three  or  four  years  of 
age,  but  she  was  eleven  —  a  stunted  creature 
who  was  not  able  to  talk  until  she  was  nine, 
and  who  was  now  learning  her  alphabet.  When 
one  reflects  on  the  cretinism  of  the  higher  val- 
leys, and  sees  the  hard-toiling  peasants  whose 
minds  are  stunted  domiciled  under  the  same 
roof  with  their  cattle,  one  cannot  but  think  that 
there  is  a  level  above  which  man  does  not 
flourish.  This  child  was  exceptional,  but  such 
exceptions  are  often  seen  when  one  gets  above 
the  true  man-level. 

Contrasting  strangely  with  the  extreme  bare- 
ness of  everything  else  in  the  chalet  was  the 
high  old  clock  in  the  corner  —  evidently  no  or- 
dinary timepiece,  for  it  had  a  dial  in  the  pendu- 
lum for  telling  the  day  of  the  month,  and  was 
generally  a  most  aristocratic  and  learned  piece 
of  furniture.  Poor  old  clock,  with  its  air  of  hav- 
ing graced  some  venerable  mansion,  by  what 
rude  fate  did  it  get  into  a  chalet,  doomed  for- 
ever to  look  down  upon  this  pine  table  and 


dirty  bed;  this  yellow  dog  and 
scurvy  cat ;  this  square-built 
and  ill-mannered  woman  • 
and  this  dull-eyed,  brute- 
faced  child  ? —  doomed  to 
hear  a  hard  patois  and  the 
lowing  of  cattle,  when  it  was 
meant  for  the  library  of  a 
scholar,  or  the  quiet,  rug- 
covered  chamber  of  some 
valetudinarian  old  lady  ?  We 
could  not  find  out  its  history, 
for  the  Savoyard  is  as  secre- 
tive as  he  is  brusk.  But  the 
professor  whisked  out  his 
memorandum  book  and  lead 

pencil,  and  A took  her 

seat  in  an  unsavory  corner  of 
the  chalet  and  put  us  all  in 
a  picture  —  travelers,  peas- 
ants, dog,  cat,  and  clock. 

When  at  last  the  rain  was 
over  we  trudged  on  wearily 
through  the  mud  to  the  vil- 
lage of  Chevenox.  The 
"  Hotel  aux  Moutons  "  had 
a  little  sign  with  a  sheep  on 
it  swinging  in  front.  We  had 
been  warned  against  this 
place,  but  so  we  had  also 
against  all  the  inns  between 
this  and  Abondance,  and  it 
was  now  eight  o'clock  in  the 
evening  with  Abondance  a 
good  nine  miles  away.  There 
was  nothing  for  it  but  to  stop  at  the  Sheep 
Hotel. 

As  the  cows  had  by  this  time  been  sent  up 
the  mountains  it  was  impossible  to  get  any 
butter  except  beurre  fondu  —  butter  which 
has  been  melted  to  keep  it  for  cooking,  and 
which  is  quite  unpalatable.  At  the  Sheep 
Hotel  one  cow  remained ;  and  though  we  had 
no  butter  we  had  cow's  milk  at  night,  and  by 
the  help  of  a  good  appetite  we  ate  our  supper. 
As  for  sleeping,  it  was  quite  out  of  the  question. 
There  is  in  the  mountains  a  tree-level  and,  as 
I  have  said,  a  man-level,  but  I  have  never  yet 
discovered  any  limit  of  altitude  for  the  flea. 
This  cheerful  insect  is  ever  with  the  mount- 
aineer ;  in  the  valleys  in  winter  and  in  the  high 
chalets  of  the  summer  he  fulfils  the  end  of  his 
creation  in  laboring  to  overcome  the  sluggish- 
ness of  the  peasant.  The  young  girls  of  the 
party  sat  up  with  their  heads  on  a  table,  the 
professor  slept  the  sleep  of  the  Alpine  Club, 
but  I  meditated  all  the  long  night  on  that 
hardshell  preacher  who  found  edification  in 
reading  from  his  Bible,  "  The  wicked  flea  whom 
no  man  pursueth." 

Just  at  daybreak,  when  the  sleep  of  exhaus- 


O  UT-  OF-  THE-  WA  YS  IN  HIGH  SA  VO  Y. 


805 


sjftiilgi       ■---8ilii8 


THE    MOUNTAINS     FROM     VILLENEUVE. 


tion  began  to  come  over  us,  two  children, 
come  down  from  the  mountain  perhaps,  began 
to  call  outside  the  house  :  "  Louison  !  Louison ! 
O  Louison  !  "  For  more  than  an  hour  this  call 
for  "  Louison  "  was  kept  up.  They  even  got 
a  pole  and  knocked  on  the  windows  of  the 
room  occupied  by  the  young  ladies  and  the 
insects,  calling  always,  "  Louison !  O  Lou- 
ison !  "  The  landlady  woke  up  and  scolded 
them,  whereupon  they  lowered  their  voices 
to  an  insistent  stage  whisper  and  cried  still 
for  Louison.  Who  Louison  may  be  I  know 
not,  nor  why  she  was  wanted  at  that  unearthly 
hour,  but  1  know  that  they  did  not  find  her. 
She  has  no  doubt  gone  with  Poe's  loved  and 
lost  Lenore,  for  after  their  long  calling  the 
children  shuffled  away  again  into  the  unknown 
regions  whence  they  had  emerged. 

The  next  forenoon  brought  us  a  walk  through 
a  lovely  open  valley,  showing  great  green  slopes 
of  pasturage  dotted  with  chalets  far  up  the  ma- 
jestic mountain  sides.    As  the  season  advances 


the  peasants  drive  their  herds  farther  and  farther 
up,  until  in  midsummer  the  highest  pasturage  is 
reached.  The  peasant  himself  migrates  to  the 
high  chalets  with  his  horses  and  cows,  and  then 
later  in  the  season,  as  the  uppermost  grass  is 
exhausted,  he  retreats  terrace  by  terrace  until 
he  reaches  his  sheltered  home  in  the  deep  \  al- 
ley, where  the  avalanche  shall  not  find  him,  and 
where  the  grass  has  been  made  into  hay  and 
stored  in  the  loft  of  his  habitation  by  being- 
earned  in  on  the  backs  of  women  in  huge 
hottes,  or  baskets  worn  like  knapsacks.  Family 
and  herd  live  under  the  same  roof — it  is  house 
and  cheese-factory,  stable  and  barn.  The  peas- 
ant is  essentially  a  nomad;  living  with  and 
moving  with  his  herds,  he  sells  his  cheese  ami 
his  cattle  to  buy  bread.  There  is  nothing  very 
poetic  about  his  lite:  his  chalets  are  only  sta- 
tionary tents,  and  he  is  but  another  sort  oi 
Arab,  fencing  against  frost  and  mountain 
snows,  while  the  Bedouin  lights  against  heat 
and  sandy  plains.     1  have  heard  that  the  cattle 


8o6 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS  IN  HIGH  SAVOY. 


like  their  high  pasturage  well,  and  it  is  quite 
difficult  to  persuade  them  to  descend  until  the 
grass  is  exhausted  by  much  grazing  and  sum- 
mer drought.  Then,  as  though  frightened  by 
a  famine  specter,  they  go  down  with  irresisti- 
ble eagerness. 

Our  road  led  us  through  Vacheresse  ("Cow- 


these  mountains  he  put  the  human  spirit  into 
a  jug  like  the  giant  in  the  Arabian  story,  and 
sealed  the  vessel  with  a  veritable  Solomon's 
seal,  which  no  man  has  since  known  how  to 
break.  But  the  stupor  of  the  mountains  is 
not  confined  to  Catholic  regions. 

We  reached  Abondance  a  little  after  midday 


^|g<irjr)#$ 


■l  lit       M'--   K      ■     '      ':»     '  '     -      IV 


sCm 


■s$5* 


COURT     OF     THE     MONASTERY     AT     ABONDANCE. 


town  ")  and  on  along  the  loveliest  of  moun- 
tain sides.  We  were  now  on  the  main  road 
again,  and  we  found  these  green  mountain- 
flanks  well  peopled,  though  most  of  the  peas- 
ants had  gone  far  up  with  the  cattle.  We  asked 
our  way  now  of  a  polite  country  priest,  now 
of  modest  little  girls,  and  again  of  women  suf- 
fering the  awful  scourge  of  goiter ;  we  paused 
to  look  at  the  votive  wreaths  and  knickknacks 
deposited  before  the  ghastly  images  of  Mary 
holding  a  baby  Christ,  or  of  a  dead  Christ,  in 
the  little  shrines  by  the  road-side;  we  read 
without  devotion  the  lavish  promises  of  in- 
dulgence which  Monseigneur  the  Bishop  of 
Annecy  had  made,  by  means  of  little  tin  signs, 
to  all  such  as  should  say  a  given  number  of 
paternosters  and  Ave  Marias  before  the  ugly 
road-side  crosses.  To  live  with  the  beasts  of 
the  field  and  to  go  on  all  fours  before  a  des- 
potic but  easily  cajoled  Deity  is  the  hard  lot 
of  the  Savoyard.  A  Protestant  polemic  might 
maintain  that  when  St.  Francis  de  Sales 
arrested  the  progress  of  the  Reformation  in 


and  staid  until  the  next  morning.  After  our 
experience  with  "  Louison"  we  were  only  too 
happy  to  find  good  eating  and  good  sleeping. 
The  professor  and  the  young  ladies  went  fish- 
ing and  did  about  as  well  as  the  enthusiastic 
native  fishermen  in  the  Alps  do ;  that  is  to  say, 
they  caught  nothing  at  all.  You  see  many  fish- 
ermen in  these  mountains,  but  you  are  happy 
if  you  see  one  fish  to  a  hundred  fishing-rods. 
Yet  we  did  eat  trout  at  Abondance.  There 
came  up  a  shower  and  the  fishing  party  fled 

into  a  chalet,  where  A got  a  sketch  of 

the  picturesque  interior,  and  where  the  peasant 
confided  to  the  professor  his  purpose  to  emi- 
grate to  America,  about  which  he  held  very 
confused  notions,  as  that  the  language  spoken 
there  was  Italian.  But  he  was  not  much  more 
ignorant  of  America  than  many  of  the  English 
and  Scotch  tourists  that  one  meets. 

Abondance  was  once  the  seat  of  a  Domini- 
can abbey ;  the  town  was  a  mere  depen- 
dence of  the  abbey,  indeed.  The  monks  were 
driven  out  in  1793,  but  the  building  still  stands 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS  IN  HIGH  SAVOY. 


807 


and  is  in  use  for  communal  purposes.  The 
cure's  residence  and  the  mairie  are  in  parts 
of  it.  But  its  beauty  has  been  sadly  spoiled. 
The  lovely  marble  pillars  and  the  exquisite 
arches  of  the  cloisters  have  been  broken  and 
carried  off  one  by  one  to  prop  a  stable  or  to 
finish  a  wall.  This  destruction  was  arrested 
when  the  building  was  devoted  to  public  uses, 
and  enough  remains  to  show  how  excellent 
the  whole  must  have  been.  They  were  rich, 
these  monks,  and  had  more  than  one  monas- 
tery in  these  fertile  valleys ;  and  if  they  lived 
well  and  had  great  cellars  full  of  wine,  they 
served  a  purpose  in  keeping  alive  a  love  of 
the  arts  and  letters  in  a  besotted  age.  France 
gained  much  by  sending  them  off  in  1793; 
but  something  was  lost,  too,  as  must  always 
be  the  case  in  a  revolution.  It  is  a  hard  ne- 
cessity that  obliges  us  to  tear  down  the  old 
because  the  foundations  are  rotten.  No  better 
work  has  been  done  in  America  than  the  aboli- 
tion of  slavery ;  and  yet  when  I  remember  the 
exceeding  grace  of  the  old  Virginia  country 
gentleman's  life,  as  I  saw  it  a  generation 
a'go,  I  cannot  but  feel  the  hardness  of  the 
necessity  that  obliges  a  revo- 
lution to  go  to  the  root  and 
to  overthrow  all  the  grace  and 
dignity  that  has  grown  upon 
a  false  or  antiquated  founda- 
tion, leaving  nothing  but  a 
rubbish-heap  for  a  new  begin- 
ning. The  new  structure  will 
have  its  beauty,  more  excel- 
lent than  that  of  the  old,  no 
doubt,  but  never  just  the 
same.  Nothing  is  more  ad- 
mirable than  a  brave  and 
necessary  iconoclasm,  clear- 
ing the  field  for  human  pro- 
gress, but  nothing  is  more 
saddening. 

With  the  early  morning 
knapsacks,  alpenstocks,  hob- 
nailed shoes,  and  all  the  other 
appurtenances  of  an  alpine 
party  are  mustered,  and  we 
are  off  for  the  Col  d'Ecuelle. 
Mont  la  (or  le)  Grange  lifts 
its  great  barn-like  ridge  to  the  sky  ;  the  rising 
mists  unveil  many  fine  peaks,  among  others  the 
Cornettes  de  Bise,  or  Hornsof  the  North  Wind, 
in  plain  sight  as  we  take  our  march  up  the 
sides  of  the  valley  leading  towards  the  col. 
A  little  girl  leaves  her  goats  in  the  valley  to 
show  us  the  path  up  the  mountain. 

Two  hours  of  hot  climbing  bring  us  to  a 
high  chalet  in  the  upper  pasture  grounds. 
When  we  four  have  drunk  two  quarts  of  cream 
and  offer  to  pay,  the  woman  will  not  name  a 
price.     For  an  experiment,  to  see  how  little 


she  will  take,  I  offer  her  a  fifty  centimes  piece, 
equal  to  our  dime,  but  she  protests  that  it  is 
too  much,  and  is  with  difficulty  persuaded  to 
accept  it.  These  are  the  yet  unspoiled  peas- 
ants, who  have  never  seen  a  tourist  and  to 
whom  a  franc  is  a  fortune. 

We  observe  that  our  little  goatherd  climbs 
even  on  moderate  and  grassy  slopes  in  zig-zag- 
ing;  it  is  the  art  of  the  mountaineer,  and  it  is 
thus  that  the  paths  are  made.  This  little  girl 
seems  to  be  uneasy  about  her  goats;  she  wishes 
to  return.  We  take  directions  as  to  our  way, 
and  I  find  on  examination  that  all  the  small 
change  in  my  pocket  is  equal  to  about  nine 
cents  of  our  money.  Considering  that  she  has 
climbed  two  thousand  feet  with  us,  this  seems 
little  enough.  I  pour  the  coppers  into  her 
hand,  but  she  makes  great  eyes  and  protests 
that  I  must  not  pay  her,  at  least  not  so  much. 
Once  assured  that  it  is  all  right  she  hies  swiftly 
and  without  zig-zags  down  the  mountain,  eager, 
perhaps,  to  tell  of  her  good  fortune. 

We  journey  on  up  the  mountain  side,  heark- 
ening to  the  yodling  of  women  who  lead  their 
flocks  on  the  grassy  steeps  over  opposite  to  us. 


AN     INTERIOR     AT     1SIOGK. 


The  goats  first  and  then  the  cows  hasten  to  fol- 
low when  these  young  women  call  them  with  this 
inarticulate  song.  Oh,  it  is  not  love  of  music, 
nor  sentimental  attachment  to  the  shepherd- 
esses, that  sets  every  little  goat-bell  a-tinkling 
and  every  sweet-toned  cow-bell  a-ringing  when 
the  yodle  is  heard.  The  prudent  herdswoman 
appeals  to  mercenary,  and  as  one  may  say  culi- 
nary, motives.  When  once  the  herd  is  close 
about  her  she  takes  some  lumps  of  rock  salt 
from  her  pocket  and  gives  the  cows  and  goats 
a  little  treat  from  her  hand,  knowing  that  this 


8o8 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS  IN  HIGH  SAVOY. 


will  make  the  yodle  sweet  to  their  ears  the  next 
time.  Some  of  the  cows  wear  bells  of  elegant 
workmanship,  the  poor  peasants  spending  often 
as  much  as  sixteen  francs  for  a  fine-toned  bell 
wrought  with  fleur-de-lis  or  other  emblems. 
The  very  cows  grow  proud  of  their  bells,  and 
I  have  heard  that  when  the  bell  is  taken  off 
the  cow  will  sometimes  refuse  to  walk  at  all. 


i  sfilSMi 


We  are  too  hungry  to  stay  long  in  the  ruins ; 
at  the  tavern  in  the  pretty  village  beyond  we 
get  a  substantial  dinner,  and  have  yet  some 
hours  of  daylight.  When  I  have  written  a  let- 
ter I  stroll  down  to  the  abbey  in  the  evening 
light.  I  find  one  of  my  daughters  perched  high 
on  a  broken  wall,  making  a  sketch,  while  the 
other  rests  in  the  grass,  watched  curiously  by 


A     HIGH     VILLAGE. 


It  was  just  at  noon-time  that  we  reached 
the  very  summit  of  the  eol.  The  red  sashes 
which  relieved  the  dark-blue  flannel  of  the 
feminine  walking  costumes  had  been  removed 
and  the  broad  red  flannel  collars  turned  under, 
lest  some  monarch  of  the  herd  should  take 
umbrage  at  the  bright  colors.  But  we  had  no 
trouble :  the  friendly  women  whose  cattle 
grazed  on  the  summit  gave  us  milk,  the  one 
holding  the  cow  by  the  horns  while  the  other 
milked  it ;  and  the  cows  troubled  us  only  by 
overfriendliness,  snuffing  our  clothes  and  smell- 
ing of  the  little  portable  pot  in  which  the  pro- 
fessor was  boiling  some  chocolate.  There  is 
no  better  place  for  lunch  than  the  summit  of 
a  col,  or  pass,  where  the  cool  breeze  blows 
between  the  peaks,  and  where  familiar  valleys 
and  mountains  lie  behind,  ready  to  disappear 
at  your  next  advance,  while  a  new  system  as 
yet  unexplored  is  in  front. 

Lunch  ended  we  descended  the  steep  lat- 
eral valley,  over  rubble-stones  and  morasses, 
until  we  debouched  at  last,  tired  but  cheerful, 
into  the  central  valley  of  the  Dranse  just  where 
it  forms  a  pretty  amphitheater,  and  where  stand 
the  picturesque  ruins  of  the  once  rich  Abbey 
of  St.  Jean  d'Aulph. 


the  peasant  children.  The  never  weary  pro- 
fessor has  gone  on  a  full  run  many  miles  down 
the  central  Dranse  to  explore  its  rocky  gorges. 
Certainly  the  side  and  end  walls  of  the  abbey 
which  remain  are  worth  a  day's  walk  to  see : 
the  gothic  window  is  always  best  when  one 
sees  it  in  a  ruined  building,  framing  a  bit  of 
mountain  or  sky,  and  especially  when  one  sees 
it  in  approaching  twilight.  This  abbey  has  been 
quarried  away  to  furnish  materials  for  the  vil- 
lage church,  and  for  other  buildings.  The  dev- 
astation is  now  arrested,  and  the  walls  that 
remain  will  not  be  disturbed.  There  are  enor- 
mous wine  vaults  below,  and  you  may  easily 
trace  the  limits  of  the  garden  in  which  the 
monks  walked  and  ruminated  after  dinner. 

Our  next  forenoon  brought  us  to  one  of  our 
objective  points,  the  little  Lake  of  Montriond, 
which  lies  in  a  lateral  valley  at  the  base  of 
cliffs  fully  two  thousand  feet  high.  Here  we 
eat  our  eggs  and  drink  from  a  bottle  of  cold 
coffee,  while  we  watch  the  brooks  on  the  other 
side  tumbling  headlong  down  these  great  cliffs. 
Some  go  down  diagonally,  falling  now  hun- 
dreds of  feet  and  then  making  shorter  leaps, 
thus  forming  many  cascades  between  the  sum- 
mit and  the  bottom.    There  is  one  that  breaks 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS  IN  HIGH  SAVOY. 


809 


into  spray  in  its  great  fall  and  is  quite  blown 
away  by  the  wind.  The  lake  is  low  and  no- 
where presents  so  striking  an  appearance  as 
Lake  Taney,  which  we  reached  on  another  ex- 
pedition a  week  later  after  a  good  climb  from 
Vouvry.  We  went  directly  over  a  high  ridge 
so  as  to  see  Lake  Taney  first  a  thousand 
feet  below  us,  almost  entirely  shut  in  by  high 
peaks  and  walls  of  rock.  But  Lake  Montriond, 
though  it  has  cliffs  on  but  one  side,  is  quite 
worth  a  visit,  and  it  may  be  easily  reached  in 
a  day  and  by  carriage,  following  the  valley  of 
the  central  Dranse  all  the  way  from  Thonon. 

It  was  not  in  our  plan,  however,  to  adhere 
to  carriage  roads.  We  had  heard  that  there 
was  a  pass  at  the  head  of  this  valley  by 
which  one  might  reach  the  Val  dTlliez ;  and 
assured  that  it  was  not  much  traveled,  we  felt 
all  the  more  eager  to  cross  it.  But  we  could 
find  no  one  who  had  crossed  to  Champery  by 
this  route,  and  this  fact,  after  many  inquiries, 
became  ominous.  We  did  not  want  to  go 
away  around  by  Morzin,  and  over  the  well- 
worn  col,  so  we  pushed  on  rather  blindly  up 
the  precipitous  valley  of  Montriond. 

However  charming  cascades  maybe  to  the 
traveler  who  cools  his  heated  face  in  their  spray 
and  rejoices  his  eyes  with  the  rainbows  at  their 
feet,  they  are  tiresome  to  the  reader,  who 
neither  feels  the  spray,  nor  sees  the  rainbow,  nor 
hears  the  sound.  We  paused  long  to  enjoy 
some  of  them,  though,  tramp-like,  we  did  not 
know  where  we  could  find  a  place  to  rest  at 
night.  We  passed  a  village  of  twenty-five 
chalets  quite  deserted ;  the  houses  with  home- 
made wooden  locks.  In  another  village  there 
was  an  old  woman  with  a  distressful  neck  left 
as  guardian  of  houses  and  cabbage-patches. 
Now  and  then  we  met  a  boy  carrying  some- 
thing in  a  hotte  on  his  back.  He  had  come 
down  from  the  village  above  to  sell  some  butter 
perhaps,  or  maybe  to  bring  some  smuggled 


ABBEY     OF     ST.     JEAN     D  AULPH. 

tobacco,  for  there  are  the  roads  of  the  smug- 
glers. In  response  to  all  our  inquiries  we 
received  for  answer  but  one  reply  —  we  must 
rest  in  the  chalets  of  Lynderet ;  the  col  was 
very  high  and  could  not  be  passed  that  even- 
ing. So,  beating  steadily  up  the  mule-path, 
we  yielded  to  the  conviction  that  we  must 
camp  in  the  chalets,  to  the  great  delight  of 
the  novelty-loving  young  folks,  to  the  great 
disgust  of  an  old  stager  such  as  I  have  come 
to  be.  Have  I  not  slept  in  the  straw  for  a  week 
in  the  Green  Mountains,  in  the  spruce  boughs 
many  a  night  in  the  north  woods,  on  hard  floors 


pn 


,^>>«f«*^_ 


. 


Vol.  XL.—  106. 


TOWN     OI-"     AHONDANl'K. 


8io 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS  IN  HIGH  SAVOY. 


on  the  frontier,  under  the  "  blue  lift "  on  the  top 
of  Ascutney  and  elsewhere,  and  on  a  buffalo 
robe  on  the  Red  River  of  the  North  ?  And 
did  I  not  pass  one  awful  night  in  the  hotel 
in  Cannonsburg,  Pennsylvania,  when  I  was 
a  lyceum  lecturer  ?  But  there  comes  a  time 
in  a  man's  life  when  the  fun  has  gone  out  of 
discomfort,  and  when  a  man  prefers  a  clean 
bed  to  one  of  the  other  sort. 

We  passed  yet  one  other  hamlet  where  there 
was  no  living  thing.  All  the  people  and  cattle 
had  moved  a  week  before  to  the  high  village 
of  Lynderet,  the  low-browed  chalets  of  which 
we  could  now  see  far  above  and  ahead  of  us. 
When  at  last  we  entered  the  lofty  village,  in  the 
late  afternoon,  we  paused,  as  we  had  been  di- 
rected, at  the  first  chalet,  where  some  little 
necessary  things  were  kept  for  sale,  and  where 
half  a  dozen  of  the  village  gossips  sat  sewing 
on  stools  and  logs  in  front  of  the  door.    They 


scanned  very  curiously  our  walking  costumes,, 
especially  the  knickerbockers  and  long  hose 
of  the  professor,  and  the  blue  flannel  "  sailor 
suits,"  trimmed  with  red,  of  the  young  girls. 
They  did  not  try  to  restrain  their  laughter  as 
we  explained  that  we  wished  to  sleep  in  some 
hay-loft ;  they  offered  to  find  beds  for  us  that 
were  ires  propre  (very  clean),  but  beds  we 
did  not  dare  accept.  Finding  the  women  very 
frank  in  speech,  I  bluntly  told  them  that  we 
were  afraid  of  fleas  and  would  like  to  find  a 
place  free  from  them. 

"  Oh,  we  have  only  been  here  eight  days,"" 
answered  the  mischievous  spokeswoman  of  the 
party,  "  and  the  fleas  have  not  yet  had  time  to 
come  to  life.  But  if  they  trouble  you  the  only 
way  is  to  feed  them  !  " 

Some  of  the  women  looked  dull  and  over- 
worked, but  the  one  who  did  the  talking  was 
bright  in  looks  and  speech ;  and  there  was  one 


wmtmm 

ON     THE     WAY     HOME,     VILLENEUVE. 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS  IN  HIGH  SAVOY, 


8n 


VALLEY     OF     THE     DRANSE. 


other,  with  a  round,  sensuous,  Italian  face  and 
very  curly  hair,  who  seemed  of  a  race  different 
from  the  rest.  There  was  a  coquettish  toss  to 
her  head ;  she  was  pretty  and  had  been  pret- 
tier, and  she  kept  looking  out  of  the  corners 
of  her  eyes  to  see  whether  she  attracted  the 
attention  of  the  strangers. 

When  we  objected  to  the  first  chalet  shown 
to  us  the  spokeswoman  chaffed  us  with  being 
hard  to  suit,  and  reminded  us  that  we  were  in 
the  mountains.  It  is  the  universal  apology 
for  all  filth  and  discomfort.  I  do  not  remem- 
ber ever  to  have  entered  a  chalet,  black,  dirty, 
and  smoky  as  all  of  them  are,  without  hearing 
the  apologetic  remark, "  Voila  les  montagties" 
or  something  equivalent  to  it.  But  we  found 
a  hay-loft  at  last  that  seemed  passably  clean. 

The  professor  treated  the  master  of  the  first 
chalet  to  cigars  and  his  children  to  bits  of 
chocolate.  We  sat  down  in  the  fioorless  room 
and  ate  a  supper  of  black  bread,  very  black 
and  heavy,  with  coffee  and  a  sort  of  omelette. 
We  had  large  soup  plates  of  earthenware  for 
our  coffee.  We  were  obliged  to  finish  this  in 
order  to  make  room  on  the  same  plate  for  our 
greasy  omelette. 

from  this  room  opened  a  door  into  the  Sta- 
ble where  the  cow-hells  were  tinkling;  in  one 
corner  of  the  room  the  lire  burned  on  the 
ground  floor.  There  was  no  hearth  or  fire- 
place; the  smoke  ascended  lazily  to  the  ceiling, 
through  which  it  passed  into  a  chimney.   A 


large  wooden  crane  served  to  swing  the  great 
black  kettle  used  in  making  cheese.  This  ket- 
tle was  stirred  from  time  to  time  by  man  or 
wrife,and  the  short  wooden  ladle  floated  around 
on  the  milk  when  not  in  use.  A  second  room 
in  that  part  of  the  chalet  which  stood  on  posts 
or  legs  above  the  ravine,  as  many  of  these 
houses  do, —  a  survival  perhaps  from  the  old 
lake  dwellings, —  was  floored  and  contained 
two  beds,  besides  a  trundle-bed,  one  of  them 
covered  with  a  bit  of  rag  carpet.  We  soon  found 
that  the  fleas  were  not  quiescent,  and  so  betook 
ourselves  to  our  hay-loft  in  another  chalet. 

We  slept  but  little.  We  were  in  a  high, 
lonesome  village ;  no  friend  of  ours  knew  where 
we  were,  and  from  the  sinister  hints  of  a  young 
man  who  taught  the  little  public  school  in  the 
place  it  was  evident  that  Ave  wrere  in  a  village 
given  to  smuggling.  The  high  col  which  we  wrere 
seeking  was  the  frontier  between  France  and 
Switzerland,  and  particularly  favorable  to  this 
unlawful  trade.  Just  as  we  were  making  nests 
in  the  hay  to  keep  warm,  a  stone  was  thrown 
against  the  chalet,  which  had  no  other  oc- 
cupants than  ourselves.  The  darkness,  the 
prevailing  rain-storm,  the  mischievous  stone- 
throwing,  were  not  reassuring.  Then,  too,  we 
had  been  warned  not  to  descend  from  the  loft 
during  the  night  for  fear  of  a  dangerous  stallion 
in  the  lower  part  of  the  house.  When  a  father 
has  daughters  in  charge  he  has  at  least  a  sense 
of  responsibility.  But  a  philosophical  spirit  is 
always  good.  There  were  for  armament  four 
stout,  sharp-pointed  alpenstocks,  and  as  we 
were  in  for  it,  there  was  nothing  but  to  risk 
robbers  and  fight  fleas  as  cheerfully  as  possible. 

Tavernier,  our  host  at  the  chalet  where  we 


%m 


&>*** 


I   \Kl      MON  rRIOND. 


8l2 


O  UT-  OF-  THE-  WA  YS  IN  HIGH  SA  VO  Y 


mkh'''       -f,       '  '•  I'll 

111 l  ,  (1 

;  ',W>:1      .    ,  ....  ',.1.  ..,    J    ........!,..:. .ill.  .a    ..    J    ... 


"1 


ini 

"1,  i 


■  n  :■:■■■■' t^- 


'"    ,(       '    '         . 


WAYSIDE     SHRINE. 


got  our  black  bread  and  coffee,  was  a  rather 
handsome,  half  Italian-looking  fellow,  with 
large,  round,  inexpressive  eyes,  that  suggested 
either  entire  naivete  or  a  bandit-like  secre- 
tiveness.  From  the  droll  allusions  made  by  the 
schoolmaster  in  Tavernier's  presence  to  the 
business  of  smuggling  as  carried  on  over  these 
mountains,  and  especially  from  the  latter's 
round-eyed,  bovine  expression  of  ignorant  in- 
difference, I  became  sure  that  he  was  the  chief 
smuggler  of  the  place.  The  next  morning,  sat- 
isfied perhaps  that  we  were  no  spies  of  the 
Government,  he  became  more  communicative 
than  he  had  been,  though  evidently  a  little  at 
a  loss  in  using  French,  which  he  jerked  out  in 
irregular  spurts.  The  patois  in  these  valleys 
is  rather  more  like  Italian,  I  believe,  than  it  is 
like  French ;  and  even  the  French  which  the 
peasants  learn  is  modified  by  the  accent  of  the 
patois.  For  example,  the  French  word  sentier 
for  path  is  always  pronounced  with  an  sh 
sound  like  the  soft  c  in  some  Italian  dialects. 
I  asked  Tavernier  what  that  hole  in  the  wall 
behind  the  flue  was  for. 

"  Pour  les  chindres  \cendres\" 

I  cite  his  answer  to  illustrate  his  accent. 
Very  likely  the  hole  in  the  wall  is  a  conven- 
ient place  to  throw  the  ashes  which  accumu- 
late on  the  earth  floor,  but  if  I  were  a  detective 
I  should  examine  the  contents  of  it. 

The  peasants  in  Lynderet,  coming  from  the 
lower  villages  of  this  narrow  val-ley,  are  all 
complexly  related  one  to  another.    Shut  in  by 


high  mountains  on  each  side,  they  have  nat- 
urally married  in  and  in  for  generations.  I 
have  not  heard  that  medical  men  have  ever 
asked  whether  cretinism  and  goiter  —  which 
certainly  do  not  come  from  the  water,  as  once 
believed — maynot  spring  from  these  marriages 
of  consanguinity.  The  restraints  of  the  Catho- 
lic Church  work  very  beneficially  in  such  com- 
munities, for  the  Church  discourages  marriages 
with  first  cousins,  and  our  smuggler,  who  was 
a  pious  man,  assured  me  that  such  marriages 
rarely  took  place.  But  as  the  relationships  are 
intricate,  a  double  second  cousin,  with  several 
other  strains  of  kinship,  might  aggregate  more 
consanguinity  than  a  first  cousin. 

The  next  morning,  which  was  Sunday,  was 
rainy  in  that  saturating  way  which  one  finds 
only  in  places  of  great  altitude.  Lynderet  was 
a  village  in  the  clouds  this  morning.  It  was 
quite  out  of  the  question  for  us  to  spend  an- 
other night  here  ;  so  we  resolved,  at  all  hazards 
of  rain  and  slippery  precipices,  to  cross  the 
pass,  which,  if  a  fog  should  rise,  would  be- 
come dangerous.  We  had  intended  to  take  a 
lad  for  a  guide,  but  found  that  there  were  few 
persons  even  in  Lynderet  who  knew  the  way ; 
one  of  these  was  our  host.  It  dawned  on  us 
slowly  that  the  pass  was  quite  untraveled  ex- 
cept by  smugglers,  and  that  of  these  the  mild- 
eyed  Tavernier  must  be  chief.  All  the  town 
was  going  to  church  at  Montriond,  in  the  val- 
ley of  the  Dranse,  several  thousand  feet  be- 
low, but  Tavernier  offered  to  put  us  in  the 
path  before  he  started.  Innocent  man  !  He 
knew  as  well  as  we  did  that  such  a  pass  as 
the  Col  du  Cuboret  could  never  be  crossed  by 
strangers  without  a  guide  on  a  bad  morning, 
and  he  only  waited  the  mention  of  pay  to  re- 
linquish his  pious  intention  of  going  to  church. 

After  a  very  light  breakfast  of  very  black 
bread  and  coffee  we  set  out  and  climbed 
steadily  upward  for  two  or  three  hours.  One 
of  the  most  perpendicular  mountains  in  sight 
was  covered  with  grass  all  the  way  up  its 
steeps.  It  is  in  these  places,  where  the  grass 
grows  horizontally  out  of  the  mountain  side, 
and  where  neither  cow,  goat,  nor  man  can  find 
a  foothold,  that  the  chamois  flourishes.  On 
that  very  mountain  side,  at  the  north,  the  wily 
Tavernier  had  shot  two  chamois  last  year. 

The  immediate  walls  of  the  pass  of  Cuboret 
are  high,  perpendicular,  rocky  cliffs  from  which 
the  peasants  gather  jeuifii,  some  plant,  I  know 
not  what,  which  the  pharmacists  buy  for  two 
francs  an  ounce.  Tavernier,  with  characteristic 
love  of  daring  and  larger  gains  than  the  com- 
mon, has  gone  over  these  cliffs  at  the  end  of 
a  rope  many  times  in  search  of  jenipi.  Only 
a  year  ago  a  poor  fellow  fell  down  the  dizzy 
cliff  at  the  left  and  lost  his  life  in  the  search 
for  the  highly  prized  plant. 


OUT-OF-THE-WAYS  IN  HIGH  SAVOY. 


813 


When  in  the  chill  airs  of  the  higher  ground 
we  had  drunk  some  cold  coffee  from  the  pro- 
fessor's bottle,  and  eaten  some  bread  from  the 
knapsacks,  and  had  made  the  guide  partic- 
ipate in  the  refreshments,  Tavernier,  walking 
by  my  side,  let  out  the  fact  frankly  that  he  had 
once  climbed  from  the  Swiss  side  of  this  pass 
laden  with  two  bags  of  contraband  tobacco. 

'■Just  here,"  he  said,  "my  companion  and 
myself  met  two  gens  d'armes.  We  ran,  but  the 
gens  d'armes  were  light  and  we  were  burdened. 
I  threw  away  one  bag  of  tobacco  and  escaped 
across  the  frontier,  and  passing  round  the  moun- 
tains came  in  by  the  frontier  of  Morzin.  It  was 
a  great  loss  to  me  —  thirty-five  francs'  worth 


softened  as  it  was  by  rain.  The  guide  trod  the 
soft  snow  down  so  that  the  girls  might  follow 
in  his  tracks  without  sinking.  I  plucked  violets 
not  far  from  the  snow,  and  found  the  hardy  little 
Soldanella  alpina,  which  blooms  only  on  the 
high  mountains  where  the  snow  is  melting.  My 
specimen  I  plucked  within  two  feet  of  the  snow. 
That  which  we  feared  came  upon  us.  As 
we  reached  the  summit  the  clouds  creeping  up 
from  the  Rhone  Valley  covered  the  pass.  We 
were  obliged  to  descend  the  dangerous  steep 
in  the  fog.  Hardly  were  we  all  on  the  grassy 
and  slippery  precipice,  where  the  path  is  only 
a  foothold  in  the  herbage  and  where  the  moun- 
tain is  virtually  perpendicular  for  hundreds  of 


£&£&£SSk 


■  mmm 


¥ 


MAIN     STREET    OF    CHAMPERY. 


of  tobacco."  And  the  poor  fellow's  voice  fell 
into  a  plaintive  key,  but  I  could  not  detect  the 
least  sense  of  culpability.  Smuggling  is  to  him 
only  a  dangerous  pursuit,  like  chamois  shooting 
and  the  gathering  of  the  jenipi  harvest. 

I  do  not  know  how  high  the  Col  du  Cu- 
boret  is.  I  f  one  may  trust  the  marking  of  some 
maps  it  is  7550  feet,  say  1300  feet  higher  than 
our  Mount  Washington.  Certain  it  is  that  on 
the  day  of  the  summer  solstice  we  found  great 
beds  of  snow  tilling  the  depressions,  and  we 
many  times  sank  to  our  knees  in  its  surface, 


feet,  than  each  was  seized  with  a  fright  about 
the  others.  [,  clinging  by  hobnails  and  alpen- 
stock to  the  dizzy  side,  was  in  terror  lest  the  girls 
should  fall  ;  they  were  frightened  lest  a  vertigo 
should  seize  me;  and  the  professor  was  panic- 
stricken  for  us  all.  Such  shouting  to  and  fro, 
such  cautions, directions,  reproaches, and  coax- 
ings! Only  the  guide  was  impassive  as  ever. 
I  lis  round,  bland  face  looked  as  calm  as  it  w  ill 
look  on  the  scaffold  it  he  ever  should  be  guillo- 
tined for  shooting  one  of  the  gens  d'armes. 
After  a  while  our  descent   became  less  pre- 


814 


THE   A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


cipitous,  and  we  presently  emerged  from  the 
cloud  at  the  Chalet  de  Pas,  where  we  found 
many  cows,  and  much  cheese-making,  and  all 
the  women  wearing  trousers.  These  were  not 
compromises  like  the  "  bloomers  "  of  our  re- 
formers of  forty  years  ago,  but  the  real  Swiss 
peasant  trousers  bagging  at  the  sides  into  pock- 
ets large  enough  to  contain  each  a  bottle  of 
wine.  It  is  the  custom  in  some  parts  of  the 
canton  of  Valais  for  the  women  to  wear  trou- 
sers, not  from  any  reformatory  sentiments,  but 
simply  because  it  is  impossible  to  go  about  the 
morass  of  a  barnyard  in  which  their  chalets 
are  situated  in  any  other  clothes.    These  were 


more  than  usually  intelligent,  pleasant-faced 
peasant  women,  and  they  gave  us  white  bread, 
which,  after  our  morning  walk,  was  gladly  re- 
ceived. That  afternoon  we  reached  Champery 
wet,  weary,  muddy,  and  hungry,  and  a  beauti- 
ful walk  down  the  Val  d'llliez  the  next  fore- 
noon brought  us  to  the  railway,  and  thus  to  the 
end  of  our  delightful  journey,  namely,  to  this 
quaint  old  "  le  clos"  near  Villeneuve,  on  Lake 
Geneva  where  I  write,  looking  out  of  a  wide 
gallery  at  Castle  Chillon,  and  round  about  me 
at  a  vineyard  of  white  grapes  planted  centuries 
ago  by  the  Knights  Templars. 


Edward  Eggleston. 


THE    AUTOBIOGRAPHY    OF    JOSEPH    JEFFERSON.1 

FINAL    INSTALMENT,    INCLUDING   THE    AUTHOR'S    LATEST    REFLECTIONS    ON 

THE    ART    OF    ACTING. 


MR.  AND    MRS.    BARNEY    WILLIAMS. 

and  Mrs.  Barney 
Williams  attracted 
much  attention, 
shortly  after  their 
marriage,  as  Amer- 
ican stars.  The  as- 
sociation of  the 
Irish  boy  and  the  Yankee  girl  was  a  novelty, 
and  as  a  dramatic  feature  strong  in  contrast. 

Williams  had  been  quite  popular  even  be- 
fore his  marriage,  and  his  union  with  Mrs. 
Charles  Mestayer  (also  very  popular),  and  their 
joint  appearance  in  Irish  drama  and  musical 
farce,  was  at  once  a  success  and  placed  them 
among  the  theatrical  attractions  of  the  day. 
The  laugh  of  Mrs.  Williams  was  infectious,  and 
her  droll  singing  of  "  Independence  Day " 
made  it  the  favorite  local  song  of  the  time. 
Williams  was  an  effective  actor,  and  his  grace- 
ful figure  and  attractive  face  made  him  always 
welcome  to  his  audiences. 

Barney  and  I  were  once  walking  together 
in  a  heavy  shower  of  rain,  and  were  near  his 
own  house,  where  dinner  was  awaiting  us.  As 
we  reached  the  gate  the  Irish  girl  was  discov- 
ered watering  the  flower-beds  in  the  garden. 
She,  like  ourselves,  was  sheltered  from  the 
storm  by  an  ample  umbrella ;  but  a  high  wind 
had  turned  it  inside  out.  With  the  now  use- 
less shelter  in  one  hand  and  the  watering-pot  in 
the  other  she  was  whirled  about  like  a  weather- 
cock in  a  stiff  breeze,  and  in  this  helpless  con- 
dition was  pouring  an  auxiliary  shower  on  the 
already  drenched  and  dripping  plants.  Barney 
l  Copyright,  1889,  by  Joseph  J 


hailed  her  reprovingly  and  demanded  to  know 
why  she  was  doing  such  a  stupid  thing.  "  Sure, 
sir,  ye  told  me  to  be  after  watering  the  flowers 
every  day."  "  Yes,  but  not  on  a  rainy  day," 
said  the  master.  "  Sure,  sir,"  said  Biddy,  "  I 
thought  a  rainy  day  was  every  day  as  well  as 
any  other  day."  "  Why,  you  are  drenched  with 
the  rain,"  said  Barney;  "  go  into  the  house."  "  I 
will,  sir,  indeed,"  said  she ;  "  for  if  the  posies 
have  had  enough  of  it,  I  am  sure  I  have." 

JOHN    DREW. 

It  is  said  that  John  Brougham,  who  wrote 
the  domestic  drama  of  "  The  Irish  Emigrant  " 
and  had  acted  the  hero  with  some  success,  de- 
clared upon  seeing  John  Drew  play  the  part 
that  he  would  never  attempt  it  again.  I  have 
myself  a  vivid  remembrance  of  Drew  in  this 
character.  (This  gentleman  was  the  father  of 
the  present  John  Drew  and  the  husband  of  the 
distinguished  actress  who  now  bears  his  name.) 
He  acted  a  star  engagement  under  my  man- 
agement in  Richmond,  Virginia,  in  1856,  ap- 
pearing in  a  round  of  Irish  characters  with 
marked  success.  I  saw  him  as  Handy  Andy, 
O'F/anag/ian,  and  the  Emigrant,  and  his  en- 
trance in  the  last-named  character  was  one  of 
those  simple,  bold,  and  unconventional  effects 
that  invariably  command  recognition  from  an 
audience,  be  they  high  or  low,  rich  or  poor,  in- 
telligent or  ignorant.  A  simple  figure  passes 
an  open  window  and  pauses  for  an  instant  to 
look  into  the  room;  then  a  timid  knock. 
"  Come  in ! "  The  door  slowly  opens,  and  upon 
the  threshold  stands  a  half-starved  man, 
EFFERSON.     All  rights  reserved. 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


815 


hunger  in  his  gaunt  form  and  hollow  cheeks,  but 
kindness  and  honesty  in  his  gentle  eyes.  What  a 
pathetic  sight  is  this  !  As  the  character  is  devel- 
oped through  the  incidents  surrounding  it  you 
see  always  the  same  man,  changed  only  as  he 
would  be  by  the  circumstances  through  which 
he  passes.  There  is  a  sincerity  in  this  kind  of 
artistic  treatment  that  wins  for  it  a  lasting  re- 


his  versatility  perhaps  more 
character  I  had  seen  him  in. 


than  any  other 
It  was  that  of  a 
young  English  squire,  gay  and  desperate, 
warm-hearted  and  profligate,  whose  condition 
changed  from  wealth  and  station  to  poverty 
and  almost  to  degradation,  from  the  bowling- 
green  of  the  quiet  village  to  the  gambling- 
hell  of  a  great  city  —  these  vicissitudes  of  for- 


BARNEY     WILLIAMS. 
(FROM     A     PHOTOGRAPH     BY     BOGAROUS.) 


membrance  in  the  minds  of  those  who  have 
witnessed  it.  To  do  bright  and  sparkling  things 
that  for  a  moment  trick  an  audience  of  its 
applause,  though  they  be  entirely  out  of  keep- 
ing with  a  character,  is  a  grave  error.  With 
whatever  variety  a  character  may  be  treated, 
the  audience  should  feel  that  it  is  the  same 
man  whose  different  moods  are  developed  by 
the  change  of  his  position  in  the  story.  I  think 
it  has  been  generally  conceded  that  since  Ty- 
rone Power  there  has  been  no  Irish  comedian 
equal  to  John  Drew.  Power,  as  a  light  and 
brilliant  actor,  with  piercing  eyes,  elegant 
carriage,  and  polished  "school,"  dazzling  his 
audiences  like  a  comet,  was  undoubtedly  un- 
paralleled in  his  line,  but  I  doubt  if  he  could 
touch  the  heart  as  deeply  as  did  John  Drew. 
We  were  afterwards  together  in  Philadel- 
phia; he  played  Sir  Lucius  CT  Trigger  with 
me  in  "The  Rivals,"  Mrs.  Drew  appearing 
as  Lydia  Languish.  'There  was  one  part  that 
he  acted  during  this  brief  engagement  which 
made  a  strong  impression  upon  me,  and  revealed 


tune  being  brought  upon  him  by  his  own  care- 
less nature,  which  passed  from  gay  to  grave, 
deeply  touched  by  the  misfortune  of  others  and 
reckless  of  his  own.  Drew's  treatment  of  this 
character,  though  it  was  not  widely  known, 
won  for  him  great  admiration  from  his  artistic 
comrades. 

CHARLOTTE    CUSHMAN. 

Miss  Cushman  was  a  prominent  figure  in 
the  dramatic  history  other  day  —  tall  and  com- 
manding in  person,  with  an  expressive  face 
whose  features  might  have  been  called  plain 
but  for  the  Strength  and  character  in  them. 
She  was  self-educated,  and  had  consequently 
stored  her  mind  with  just  the  sort  of  material 
that  would  serve  to  develop  it.  The  most  oil 
tivated  society  of  England  and  America  de- 
lighted to  entertain  her,  and  her  hospitality 
and  kindness  to  Americans  who  visited  her 
during  her  sojourn  in  Italy  won  for  her  the 
esteem  and  gratitude  of  many  rising  young 
artists,  whom  she  took  great  pleasure  in  bring- 


8i6 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


ing  into  notice.  Her  dramatic  career  was  a 
long  and  brilliant  one,  and  in  the  legitimate 
drama  she  was  more  prominent  than  any  other 
actress  of  her  time. 

The  nearest  approach  to  Miss  Cushman  was 
Mrs.  Warner.  Her  face  was  classic  and  there 
was  a  grace  and  majesty  in  her  presence  that 
was  very  charming,  but  in  force  and  fire  Miss 
Cushman  far  outshone  her  English  rival.  She 
had  great  tact  in  society,  being  perfectly  at 
ease  and  making  every  one  else  so.  Her  fac- 
ulty for  either  entertaining  or  being  entertained 
was  remarkable.  She  could  do  all  the  listening 
or  all  the  talking,  whichever  was  the  most 
agreeable  to  her  guest.  As  Lady  Macbeth  and 
Queen  Catherine  she  was  regal  from  head  to 
foot,  but  her  most  popular  character  with  the 
public  was  Meg  Merrilies  in  "  Guy  Manner- 
ing."  As  Scott's  heroine  critics  objected  to  her 
extravagant  acting  and  the  liberty  she  took  in 
standing  aloof  from  the  character  in  the  novel, 
and  in  her  re-creation  of  the  Meg.  As  I  have 
been  guilty  of  the  same  thing,  it  will  not  do  for 


MRS.     BARNEY     WILLIAMS. 
(FROM     A     PHOTOGRAPH     BY     MORA.) 


me  to  complain.  But  be  this  as  it  may,  her  act- 
ing was  amazingly  effective,  and  that  quality 
covers  a  multitude  of  dramatic  sins.  She  was 
witty  and  agreeable,  with  an  immense  flow  of 
animal  spirits,  and  I  never  met  her  without  hav- 
ing a  good  laugh,  either  at  our  own  expense 
or  that  of  somebody  else.  She  had  a  warm 
heart,  and  her  charities  were  very  numerous. 


MRS.    DRAKE. 

Before    Charlotte   Cushman  reached  the 
height  of  her  popularity   the  leading   tragic 
actress  of  America  was  Mrs.  A.  Drake.    She 
was  an  accomplished  woman,  and  during  her 
whole  life  held  an  enviable  position  both  on 
and  off  the  stage.    When  a  boy  of  sixteen  I 
acted  with  her  the  page  Cyprian  Gossamer  in 
"Adrian   and  Orrilla."    She    taught  me   the 
business  of  the  part  with  great  care,  coming 
to  the  theater  an  hour  before  the  rehearsal  so 
as  to  go  over  the  scenes  with  me  before  the 
actors  assembled.    She  had  a  queenly  bearing, 
and  was,  during  her  dramatic  reign,  undoubt- 
edly the  tragic  muse  of  America.    Her  son, 
some  years  ago,  knowing  that  I  had  a  great 
regard  for  his  mother,  gave  me  three  letters 
which  relate  to  theatrical  matters  in  general, 
and  to  Mrs.  Drake  in  particular.    I  shall  there- 
fore take  the  liberty  of  inserting  them  here. 
They  have  never  been  published  before ;  and 
as  two  of  them  are  from  John  Howard  Payne, 
the  author  of  "  Home,  Sweet  Home,"  and 
the  other  is  from  Washington  Irving,  they 
cannot  fail  to  be  interesting.    One  of  Mr. 
Payne's  letters  is  to   Daniel  O'Connell, 
the    great    Irish    statesman,    introducing 
Mrs.  Drake  to  his  notice. 

Louisville,  Kentucky,  Sept.  4,  1832.. 
John  Miller,  Esq_., 

Agent  for  the  American  Legation,  London. 

My  dear  Sir  :  As  you  are  well  versed  in 
theatrical  affairs,  1  would  ask  your  advice  and 
services  for  Mrs.  Drake,  an  American  lady  who 
is  about  to  try  her  fortunes  on  the  London 
boards.  You  may  already  have  heard  of  her 
success  in  the  United  States.  I  have  merely  had 
the  pleasure  of  witnessing  her  powers  one 
evening,  in  the  Widow  Cheerly(1'  The  Soldier's 
^  Daughter "),  and  the  part  of  Mary  in  the  ' '  Maid 
of  the  Inn"  ;  but  from  those  specimens  am  led 
to  form  a  very  high  opinion  of  her  talents  both 
in  the  serious  and  comic  lines  of  the  drama.  I 
cannot  but  think  that,  if  she  has  a  fair  chance, 
she  will  make  a  very  favorable  impression  on 
the  London  public. 

A  personal  acquaintance  with  Mrs.  Drake 
has  still  more  interested  me  in  herself  and  her 
fortune;  and  1  shall  feel  it  as  a  kindness  to 
myself  if  you  would  do  anything  in  your  power 
to  facilitate  her  views  in  England. 

With  kindest  remembrances  to  Mrs.  Miller, 
Yours  very  truly, 

Washington  Irving. 


New  York,  May  20,  1833. 
Dan'l  O'Connell,  Esq.,  M.P.,   London. 
(Hand  by  Mrs.  Drake.) 
My  dear  Sir:    A   lady  of  the    highest  standing 
both  as  a  gentlewoman  and  an  actress  —  Mrs.  Drake 
of  the  Western  region  of  our  Western  World  —  visits 
Europe  and  intends  to  make  a  professional  experi- 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


817 


flifflBWffW '.",     ■    ■ 


ENGRAVED   BY   T. 
JOHN     DREW.        (FROM 


merit  in  London.  I  have  thought  I  could  greatly 
serve  her  and  gratify  you  by  making  you  known 
1o  each  other  ;  and  as  Mrs.  Drake  will  probably 
visit  Ireland,  1  shall  consider  any  attention  she  may 
receive  there  through  you  as  a  compliment  from 
you  to  our  republic,  as  will  my  countrymen. 
Mrs.  Drake  is  one  of  the  few  among  us  who  are 
allowed  by  Mrs.  Trollope  to  possess  first-rate  talent; 
and  the  Duke  of  Saxe-Weimar,  in  his  Travels, 
speaks  of  her  with  more  enthusiasm  than  even  Mrs. 
Trollope.  1  prefer,  for  reasons  which  I  need  not 
name,  giving  you  upon  this  subject  the  opinions 
Vol.  XL.— 107. 


A    PHOTOGRAPH.) 

of    foreigners,   especially  of  such  as   are   supposed 
to  be  rather  prejudiced  against  us. 

I  write  in  great  haste,  being  apprised  o(  the  de- 
parture of  Mrs.  Drake  for  England  only  as  1  am 
myself  departing  for  the  Southern  States  of  Amer- 
ica. I  can  only  add  how  infinitely  I  shall  feel 
obliged  by  any  attention  it  may  be  in  your  power 
to  oiler  Mrs.  Drake.  She  travels  in  company  with 
a  particular  friend  of  hers,  Mrs.  White,  who  (with 
her  husband,  a  member  of  the  United  States  Con- 
gress for  Florida,  Colonel  White)  is  desirous  of 
seeing  Europe.    Should   you  meet  them  you  may 


8i8 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


wonder  a  little  that  a  part  of  the  world  so  recently 
a  wilderness  should  produce  such  poor  specimens 
of  savageness  and  unrefinement. 

With  best  and  most  grateful  remembrances  to 
Mrs.  O'Connell  and  all  your  family  who  may  still 
bear  me  in  recollection,  believe  me,  my  dear  sir, 
with  great  respect, 

Your  obliged  and  faithful  friend  and  servant, 

J.  Howard  Payne. 

New  York,  67  Varick  St., 
Hudson  Square,  Oct.  20,  1833. 
My  dear  Mrs.  Drake  :    You  will  doubtless  think 
me  most   ungallant  in  having  so  long  omitted  to 


JOHN    DREW     AS     "THE     IRISH     EMIGRANT." 


answer  your  kind  letter  of  July  1 .  But  be  assured 
the  neglect  has  not  been  of  the  mind,  for  I  have 
often  thought  and  spoken  of  you  and  always  in- 
tended to  write  to  you — to-morrow.  The  to-mor- 
row is  now  here;  but  whether  it  will  guide  my 
remembrance  to  you  is  a  question  which  it  would 
delight  me  to  find  answered  speedily  in  the  affirma- 
tive by  your  own  fair  hand. 

My  attention  since  I  heard  from  you  has  been 
entirely  taken  up  by  the  project  of  a  new  periodical 
1  am  preparing:  Mr.  Hyde,  of  Schenectady,  obliges 
me  by  conveying  you  a  prospectus.  I  must  have 
five  thousand  subscribers  before  1  can  start,  and  as 
yet  the  names  come  in  slowly.  People  seem  aston- 
ished by  the  plan,  and  still  more  by  giving  two 
guineas  for  literature  !  I  have  only  about  230  of 
the  five  thousand  as  yet,  but  1  mean  to  persevere.  I 
have  great  hopes  from  the  Western  States,  and  should 
be  most  happy  to  confer  with  you  upon  some  plan 
for  taking  the  warm  hearts  you  tell  me  of  there  by 
storm.  The  scheme  is  one  I  am  much  devoted  to, 
and  surely  a  nation  like  this  ought  to  yield  from 
her  whole  population  five  thousand  supporters 
for  such  a  project.  I  mean  to  travel  through  the 
United  States  myself,  and  in  each  place  send  out  a 
person  to  solicit  names.  It  is  humiliating  enough 
to  have  to  solicit  even  by  a  second  person  ;  but  if 
no  other  names  offer,  I  will  do  it  by  myself  rather 
than  fail.  I  shall  take  Albany,  of  course,  on  the 
way  ;  but  when,  is  yet  uncertain.  I  am  very  desir- 
ous, however,  of  ascertaining  as  early  as  may  be 
what  chance  that  good  city  offers  me  ;  and  Mr.  Hyde, 
who  is  a  worthy  and  enthusiastic  young  man,  a  stu- 
dent of  Union  College  and  the  editor  of  a  magazine 
published  there,  has  most  handsomely  undertaken 
to  try  what  he  can  do  towards  the  increase  of  my 
list.  I  have  desired  him  to  see  you,  and  to  get 
your  advice.  The  ladies  are  the  best  friends,  after 
all,  and  not  only  know  how  these  things  ought  to 
be  managed,  but  can  point  out  the  readiest  way  of 
giving  their  knowledge  effect. 

May  1  hope  you  will  favor  me  with  a  line  very 
soon,  mentioning  what  you  are  about  and  whether 
I  can  be  of  any  use  to  you  in  return  for  the  com- 
mission with  which  I  am  troubling  you. 
Yours  in  haste, 

Most  faithfully, 
Mrs.  Drake.  J.  Howard  Payne. 


These  simple  letters  from  two  gifted  and 
delightful  men  attest  not  only  Mrs.  Drake's 
dramatic    qualities    but    her    private    worth. 
And  it  is  a  pleasure  and  a  privilege  to  publish 
them,  and  so  revive  the  memory  of  an  honor- 
able   and    talented   lady.     Had    they 
/      been  commonplace  letters  of  introduc- 
tion from  unknown  people  I  should  not 
have    intruded    them    on  the  reader; 
but  as  it  is  I  feel  sure  that  no  apology 
is  needed  for  their  insertion. 

A  little  incident  connected  with  the  meeting 
of  Mrs.  Drake  in  Louisville  has  been  brought 
to  my  recollection  while  I  have  been  writing 
of  her.  There  is  nothing  particularly  interesting 
about  it  except  that  it  has  a  humorous  side,and 
I  cannot  resist  the  temptation  of  noticing  it  here. 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


819 


JOHN     DREW     AS     "  HANDY    ANDY."       (FROM     A    PHOTOGRAPH.) 


We  had  at  that  time  a  lady  attached  to  our 
company  who  was  a  great  character.  Her  thirst 
for  autographs  was  unquenchable,  and  I  have 
never  seen  a  more  perfect  specimen  of  the  fe- 
male lion-hunter.  She  knew  most  of  the  celeb- 
rities in  the  country,  and  always  kept  on  hand 
a  large  assortment  of  introductory  letters  ready 
for  presentation  at  the  shortest  notice.  This 
is  an  innocent  kind  of  pastime,  and  if  it  does 
no  good  it  certainly  does  no  harm.  'This  lady 
had  a  weakness  for  not  remembering  names. 
This  was  singular,  too,  as  half  her  time  was 
employed  in  the  work  of  collecting  them  ;  but 
they  seemed  to  revenge  themselves  for  their 
imprisonment  in  her  album  by  escaping  from 
her  memory,  and  it  was  comical  to  observe 
the  woe-begone  expression  of  her  face  when 


she  related  some  of  her  unfortunate  mistakes. 
"  It  is  so  dreadful,  my  dear,"  she  would  say, 
"to  commit  these  blunders;  and  there  is  no 
excuse  for  them.  Just  imagine  my  being  intro- 
duced to  a  gentleman  by  the  name  of  Smith 
and  callimi  him  Mr.  Montgomery  five  minutes 
afterwards." 

Of  course  she  was  anxious  to  meet  an  inter- 
esting lady  like  Mrs.  Drake,  and,  armed  with 
an  introduction  which  I  gave  her,  called  on 
the  retired  actress,  hoping  that  she  would  be 
able  to  collect  some  theatrical  matter  for  a 
book  that  she  was  writing,  and  desiring  to  get 
the  much-prized,  but  rather  conventional, 
actor's  autograph  with  a  Shaksperean  quota- 
tion. 

In  due  time  Mrs.   Drake  returned  the  call 


820 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


CHARLOTTE  CUSHMAN. 
(FROM  A  PHOTOGRAPH  BY  SARONV.) 

and  was  ushered  into  the  large  parlor  of  the 
Gait  House,  where  a  number  of  ladies  and 
gentlemen  were  assembled  to  pay  their  re- 
spects to  the  lion-hunter.  Mrs.  Drake  was 
distinguished  for  a  majestic  bearing  at  all 
times,  and  any  ceremonious  occasion  would 
naturally  intensify  her  dignity.  The  tragedy 
queen  was  therefore  with  more  than  usual  loft- 
iness led  into  the  center  of  the  apartment  and 
introduced  by  her  hostess  as  Mrs.  Duck.  A 
slight  titter  of  quiet  mirth  rippled  over  the  as- 
sembled company  as  Mrs.  Drake  glared  with  a 
reproving  "  Lady  Macbeth  eye  "  at  the  nervous 
little  hostess,  who  was  so  overcome  with  mor- 
tification that  she  burst  forth  with,  "  Oh,  I  beg 
your  pardon;  I  mean  Mrs.  Goose."  This  of 
course  settled  it. 

In  dealing  freely,  and  I  hope  fairly,  with 
the  players  of  the  past,  I  have,  for  obvious 
reasons,  refrained  from  passing  judgment  on 
the  actors  of  the  present.  I  belong  to  the  lat- 
ter group,  and  have  therefore  no  right  to  crit- 
icize it. 

There  are  many  both  in  England  and 
America  that  I  would  be  pleased  to  praise 
and  praise  highly,  but  in  doing  this  I  should 
tacitly  censure  others,  and  this  is  not  my 
mission.  The  first  group  has  passed  by,  but 
we  are  before  the  public,  which  alone  has  the 
right  to  pass  its  judgment.  Besides,  actors 
are  not  by  any  means  the  best  judges  of  act- 


ing :  we  have  our  prejudices,  which  naturally 
bias  fair  criticism ;  and  in  referring  to  the  past 
history  of  the  stage  I  find  that  all  actors  of 
genius  and  originality  have  given  great  offense 
to  the  conventional  school  that  their  brilliancy 
disturbed.  Quin  said  of  Garrick,  "  If  he  is 
right  then  we  are  all  wrong  "  ;  the  Kembles 
were  shocked  at  the  fire  of  Edmund  Kean; 
and  so  it  has  gone  on,  and  will  continue  in 
the  future. 

Original  painters  seem  to  suffer  still  more 
than  actors,  and  I  honestly  believe  it  is  be- 
cause artists  are  at  the  heads  of  the  academies, 
where  they  sit  in  judgment  and  at  times  de- 
nounce the  work  of  an  original  painter,  refusing 
to  hang  his  picture  because  he  has  had  the 
courage  to  be  unconventional.  Corot  and  Mil- 
let were  for  years  refused  admittance  to  the 
Salon,  and  are  striking  proofs  of  the  unfairness 
or  prejudice  of  their  brother  artists ;  and  it  is 
quite  likely  if  actors  and  authors  sat  in  judg- 
ment on  their  kind  that  many  original  actors 
and  authors  would  be  tabooed ;  but  fortunately 
the  great  public  gets  at  them  first  and  praises  or 
condemns  unbiased  by  professional  jealousies. 

The  painter  has  no  such  advantage.  Before 
his  work  can  reach  the  public  it  must  be  filtered 
through  the  judgment  of  his  brother  artists  of 
the  Academy.  If  they  are  conventional,— an 
they  generally  are, —  he  is  doomed  to  obscuritys 
Corot  was  fifty  years  old  before  his  work  was. 
honored  by  a  place  in  the  Salon,  and  he  did 
not  sell  a  picture  until  he  was  past  that  age. 
After  the  first  sale  had  been  made  the  dear 
old  man  said  to  his  friends,  "  Well,  I  have 
sold  a  picture ;  but  I  am  sorry  for  it,  for  now 
my  collection  is  incomplete." 

REFLECTIONS  ON  THE  ART  OF  ACTING. 

Naturally  other  members  of  my  profession 
have  given  as  much  consideration  to  matters 
connected  with  their  art  as  I  have,  and  per- 
haps more.  It  is  therefore  likely  that  a  few 
may  think  as  I  do,  many  may  differ  with  me 
entirely,  and  possibly  some  may  not  have 
thought  about  the  matter  at  all. 

If  I  err  I  shall  be  glad  to  throw  off  my 
preconceived  ideas  and  adopt  other,  better, 
and  newer  methods.  In  fact,  I  have  already 
discarded  many  pet  theories,  and,  as  I  have 
grown  older  and  more  experienced,  have  been 
taught  by  my  own  observations  and  the  suc- 
cessful achievements  of  others  that  there  is 
always  room  for  reform. 

Acting  has  been  so  much  a  part  of  my  life 
that  my  autobiography  could  scarcely  be 
written  without  jotting  down  my  reflections 
upon  it,  and  I  merely  make  this  little  prepara- 
tory explanation  to  apologize  for  any  dogmatic 
tone  that  they  may  possess,  and  to  say  that  I 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


821 


present  them  merely  as  a  seeker  after  truth  in 
the  domain  of  art. 

In  admitting  the  analogy  that  undoubtedly 
exists  between  the  arts  of  painting,  poetry, 
music,  and  acting,  it  should  be  remembered 
that  the  first  three  are  opposed  to  the  last, 
in  at  least  the  one  quality  of  permanence. 
The  picture,  oratorio,  or  book  must  bear  the 
test  of  calculating  criticism,  whereas  the  work 
of  an  actor  is  fleeting :  it  not  only  dies  with 
him,  but,  through  his  different  moods,  may 
vary  from  night  to  night.  If  the  performance 
be  indifferent  it  is  no  consolation  for  the  au- 
dience to  hear  that  the  player  acted  well  last 


of  dullness  is  easily  made,  but  in  a  theater  the 
auditor  is  imprisoned.  If  the  acting  be  indif- 
ferent, he  must  endure  it,  at  least  for  a  time. 
He  cannot  withdraw  without  making  himself 
conspicuous ;  so  he  remains,  hoping  that  there 
maybe  some  improvement  as  the  play  proceeds, 
or  perhaps  from  consideration  for  the  com- 
pany he  is  in.  It  is  this  helpless  condition 
that  renders  careless  acting  so  offensive. 

PREPARATION    AND    INSPIRATION. 

I  have  seen  impulsive  actors  who  were  so 
confident  of  their  power  that  they  left  all  to 


JOH] 


HOWARD    PAYNE.      (I'KUM    A    DAGUERREOTYPE. J 


night,  or  to  be  told  that  he  will  act  better  to- 
morrow night ;  it  is  this  night  that  the  public 
lias  to  deal  with,  and  the  impression  the  actor 
has  made,  good  or  bad,  remains  as  such  upon 
the  mind  of  that  particular  audience. 

The  author,  painter,  or  musician,  if  lie  be 
dissatisfied  with  his  work,  may  alter  and  per- 
fect it  before  giving  it  publicity,  but  an  actor 
cannot  rub  out;  he  ought,  therefore,  injustice 
to  his  audience,  to  be  sure  of  what  he  is  go- 
ing to  place  before  it.  Should  a  picture  in  an 
art  gallery  be  carelessly  painted  we  can  pass 
on  to  another,  or  if  a  book  fails  to  please  us 
we  can  put  it  down.   An  escape  from  this  kind 


chance.  This  is  a  dangerous  course,  espe- 
cially when  acting  a  new  character.  1  will  ad- 
mit that  there  arc  many  instances  where  great 
effects  have  been  produced  that  were  entireh 
spontaneous,  and  were  as  much  a  surprise  to 
the  actors  who  made  them  as  they  were  to 
the  audience  that  witnessed  them;  but  just  as 
individuals  who  have  exuberant  spirits  arc  at 
times  dreadfully  depressed,  so  when  an  impul- 
sive actor  fails  to  receive  his  inspiration  he  is 
dull  indeed,  and  is  the  more  disappointing  be- 
cause of  his  former  brilliant  achievements. 

In  the  stage  management   of  a  play,  or  in 
the  acting  of  a  part,  nothing  should  be  left  to 


822 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


J.    B      BUCKSTONE. 

(from    a    photograph    by    WALKER    &    SONS.) 

chance,  and  for  the  reason  that  spontaneity, 
inspiration,  or  whatever  this  strange  and  de- 
lightful quality  may  be  called,  is  not  to  be 
commanded,  or  we  should  give  it  some  other 
name.  It  is,  therefore,  better  that  a  clear  and 
unmistakable    outline  of  a   character  should 


warmth  of  passion  in  tragedy  and  the 
sudden  glow  of  humor  in  comedy  cover 
the    artificial    framework  with  an  im- 
penetrable veil :  this  is  the  very  climax 
of  great  art,  for  which  there  seems  to  be 
no  other  name  but  genius.  It  is  then,  and 
then  only,  that  an  audience  feels  that  it 
is  in  the  presence  of  a  reality  rather  than 
a  fiction.    To  an  audience  an  ounce  of 
genius  has   more    weight  than    a   ton 
of  talent;   for  though  it  respects  the 
latter,    it  reverences    the  former.    But 
the  creative  power,  divine   as  it  may 
be,  should  in  common  gratitude   pay 
due  regard  to  the  reflective;    for  Art 
is  the  handmaid  of  Genius,  and  only 
asks    the    modest   wages   of    respect- 
ful  consideration  in  payment  for  her 
valuable  services.     A  splendid  torrent 
of  genius  ought  never  to  be  checked, 
but  it  should  be  wisely  guided  into  the 
jjjp      deep  channel  of  the  stream,  from  whose 
dfi|      surface  it  will  then  reflect  Nature  with- 
jjjjp      out  a  ripple.     Genius  dyes  the  hues 
jjjp      that  resemble  those  of  the  rainbow ; 
jjpl      Art    fixes    the    colors    that   they  may 
^p      stand.     In   the    race  for  fame  purely 
§^(      artificial    actors   cannot   hope    to  win 
m      against  those  whose  genius  is  guided 
HII      by  their  art;   and,  on  the  other  hand, 
Intuition   must  not   complain   if,    un- 
bridled   or    with  too   loose  a  rein,   it 
stumbles  on  the  course,  and  so  allows  a  well- 
ridden  hack  to  distance  it. 

REHEARSALS. 

Very  numerous  rehearsals  are  not  always 


be  drawn  before  an  actor  undertakes  a  new  necessary  to  attain  perfection;  on  the  con- 
part.  If  he  has  a  well-ordered  and  an  artistic  trary,  it  is  the  quality,  not  the  quantity,  that  is 
mind  it  is  likely  that  he  will  give  at  least  a  important.  Tedious  preparation  day  after  day 
symmetrical  and  effective  performance ;  but  will  sometimes  pall  upon  a  company  of  actors, 
should  he  make  no  definite  arrangement,  and  who,  wearied  by  constant  repetition,  lose  the 
depend  upon  our  ghostly  friends  Spontaneity  freshness  with  which  their  performance  should 
and  Inspiration  to  pay  him  a  visit,  and  should  be  given ;  and  that  quality  once  lost  is  seldom 
they  decline  to  call,  the  actor  will  be  in  a  regained.  It  is  in  vain  for  a  manager  to  argue 
maze  and  his  audience  in  a  muddle.  that  he  pays  the  actor  for  his  time  and  atten- 

Besides,  why  not  prepare  to  receive  our  mys-  tion.   He  has  a  perfect  right  to  these,  certainly; 

terious  friends  whether  they  come  or  not  ?  If  but  the  feeling  and  enthusiasm  with  which  the 

they  fail  on  such  an  invitation,  we  can  at  least  time  and  attention  should  be  given  he  can  no 

entertain  our  other  guests  without  them ;  and  more  command  than  he  can  alter  the  human 

if  they  do  appear,  our  preconceived  arrange-  nature  of  his  company. 

ments  will  give  them  a  better  welcome  and  put        Just  as  an  early  impression  is  the  most  in- 

them  more  at  ease.  delible,  so  the  first  rehearsal  is  the  most  im- 

Acting   under   these  purely  artificial    con-  portant,  and,  being  so,  should  never  be  called 

ditions  will  necessarily  be  cold,  but  the  care  until  the  author  and  the  stage  manager  shall 

with    which  the  part  is   given    will    at   least  have  fully  digested  their  plans  and  thoroughly 

render  it  inoffensive  ;  they  are,  therefore,  pri-  understand   what   they  intend   to   do.     This 

mary  considerations,  and  not  to  be  despised.  The  course  not  only  saves  labor  but  begets  the 

exhibition,  however,  of  artistic  care  does  not  respect  of  the  company,  who  feel  that  their 

alone  constitute  great  acting.     The  inspired  time  will  not   be  wasted  and  that  they  are 


THE   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


823 


in  the  hands  of  patient  and  conscientious 
directors. 

It  is  the  time-honored  excuse  of  some  actors 
that  they  cannot  study  a  part  until  they  have 
rehearsed  it,  forgetting  that  it  is  not  possible  to 
rehearse  properly  until  they  are  perfect  in  the 
words.  A  part  certainly  is  more  easily  studied 
after  a  rehearsal  of  it;  but  I  am  not  discuss- 
ing ease,  remember,  but  propriety.  How  can 
we  watch  the  action  and  progress  of  the  play  if 
our  eyes  are  bent  upon  the  book  ?  It  is  merely  a 
bad  habit,  and  one  that  has  grown  out  of  a  de- 
sire that  some  people  have  to  shirk  their  duty ; 
being  naturally  inclined  to  procrastination,  they 
shelter  themselves  under  this  weak  and  con- 
ventional excuse. 

Usually  the  scenery  and  properties  of  a  play 
are  brought  into  requisition  during  the  later 
rehearsals,  and  are  increased  in  detail  till  they 
culminate  at  the  last  rehearsal.  This  is  work- 
ing  from   the  wrong  direction.     It  is  at  the 


MRS.     A.     DRAKE. 
(FROM     MINIATURE    IN    THE    POSSESSION    OF    HER    GRAND- 
DAUGHTER,    MRS.    BLANCHE    FORD.) 

first  rehearsal  that  these  adjuncts  should  be 
used,  and  if  they  are  not  ready,  substitutes 
should  be  put  in  their  places;  for  if  the  set 
of  the  scene,  the  chairs,  tables,  and  other  me- 
chanical arrangements,  are  placed  upon  the 
stage  for  an  initial  rehearsal,  the  manager  and  the 
actors  know  then  and  ever  afterwards  where 
to  find  them  and  how  to  arrange  their  group- 
ings, exits,  entrances,  and  stage  business  in 
accordance  with  the  position  of  these  useful 
materials;  but  if,  after  all  the  stage  business 
has  been  arranged,  the  company  suddenly  find 


at  the  last  rehearsal  that  chairs,  tables,  seats, 
etc.  are  met  upon  the  stage  in  unexpected 
places,  they  become  obstacles  to  the  actors  in- 
stead of  adjuncts. 

I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  the  entire  busi- 
ness of  a  play  can  be  arranged  at  the  first  re- 
hearsal. New  ideas  continually  crop  up  during 
the  early  stages  of  preparation  which  upon 
consideration  may  be  more  valuable  than  the 
original  ones,  and  actors  may  have  suggestions 
to  make  the  effect  of  which  had  not  struck  the 
author.  But  while  a  good  general  shows  his 
genius  best  when  dealing  with  an  emergency, 
he  does  not  disdain  to  plan  the  battle  before  the 
action  takes  place. 

Better  have  no  rehearsal  at  all  than  one  that 
is  long,  rambling,  and  careless :  a  clearly  cut 
and  perfectly  defined  outline  gives  precision 
and  finish  to  the  work.  If  it  were  possible  the 
pantomime  and  action  of  a  play  should  reveal 
its  meaning  to  an  audience  without  the  aid  of 
dialogue  ;  this  would  give  force  to  the  language, 
and  enable  those  who  do  not  catch  all  the 
words  to  comprehend  their  full  meaning. 

An  audience  should  understand  what  the 
actors  are  doing  if  it  does  not  hear  all  that 
they  are  saying.  It  is  eager  to  do  this,  and  quite 
competent  if  we  only  give  it  a  fair  opportunity ; 
but  inarticulate  delivery  and  careless  panto- 
mime will  not  suffice. 

We  must  not  mistake  vagueness  for  sug- 
gestion, and  imagine  that  because  wTe  under- 
stand the  matter  we  are  necessarily  conveying 
it  to  others.  Sheridan,  in  his  extravaganza  of 
"The  Critic;  or,  a  Tragedy  Rehearsed,"  gives 
a  humorous  illustration  of  this  error.  During 
the  rehearsal  of  Mr.  Puff's  play  the  charac- 
ter of  Lord  Burleigh  enters,  walking  slowly 
and  majestically  down  to  the  footlights.  The 
noble  knight  folds  his  arms,  shakes  his  head 
solemnly,  and  then  makes  his  exit  without  say- 
ing a  word. 

"What  does  he  mean  by  shaking  his  head 
in  that  manner?  "  asks  Mr.  Dangle^  a  theatri- 
cal critic. 

To  which  Mr.  Puff  replies:  "Don't  you 
know?  Why,  by  that  shake  of  the  head  he 
gave  you  to  understand  that  even  though  they 
had  more  justice  in  their  cause  and  more  wis- 
dom  in  their  measures,  yet,  if  there  was  not  a 
greater  spirit  shown  on  the  part  of  the  people, 
the  country  would  at  last  fall  a  sacrifice  to  the 
hostile  ambition  of  the  Spanish  monarchy." 

"Did  he  mean  all  that  by  shaking  his 
head?"  asks  Mr.  Dangle. 

To  which  Mr.  ruff  replies,  "Yes,  sir:  if  he 
shook  it  as  1  told  him." 

As  this  satire  was  written  over  a  hundred 
years  ago,  it  is  quite  evident  that  the  vanity 
of  vagueness  is  not  a  new  histrionic  develop- 
ment. 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


825 


And  here  the  quality  of  permanence  as  al- 
lied to  the  other  arts  and  not  to  acting  presents 
itself.  If  we  do  not  at  first  understand  a  great 
picture,  a  fine  piece  of  music,  or  a  poem,  these, 
being  tangible,  still  remain  ;  so,  should  we  de- 
sire it,  we  can  familiarize  ourselves  with  them, 
and  as  we  grow  older  and  become  more  highly 
cultivated  we  will  understand  a  school  of  art 
that  was  at  first  obscure.  But  there  must  be 
no  vagueness  in  acting.  The  suggestion  should 
be  unmistakable;  it  must  be  leveled  at  the 
whole  audience,  and  reach  with  unerring  aim 
the  boy  in  the  gallery  and  the  statesman  in  the 
stalls. 

A    STORY    OF     BURTON. 

A  reminiscence  of  some  forty  years  ago 
will  serve  to  illustrate  the  value  of  careful 
preparation  at   rehearsal. 

The  production  at  Burton's  Theater  of 
"  Dombey  and  Son,"  dramatized  by  Mr. 
Brougham,  was  a  curious  combination  of  fail- 
ure and  success.  Much  was  expected  of  Bur- 
ton's Captaiti  Cattle,  and  to  the  surprise  of  the 
expectant  critics  and  of  Burton  himself  he  did 
nothing  with  it.  Brougham  was  equally  dull 
as  the  two  B's,  Bunsby  and  Bagstock.  The  hit 
of  the  piece,  at  least  on  its  first  production,  was 
made  by  Oliver  Raymond  as  Toots.  This  gen- 
tleman had  been  previously  an  obscure  actor, 
but  on  making  a  success  in  a  play  wherein 
Burton  had  failed,  he  came  to  the  front  at 
once  and  was  the  lion  of  the  hour. 

Burton's  failure  as  Cuttle  was  easily  ac- 
counted for.  He  had  studied  the  character 
carelessly,  and  not  only  was  imperfect  in  the 
text  but  had  been  absent  from  many  of  the 
rehearsals,  relying  too  much  upon  his  great 
powers  and  the  spontaneity  of  his  dramatic 
resources.  He  was  usually  able  to  command 
them,  but  during  the  first  run  of  this  piece 
they  played  him  truant.  Dismayed  at  his  own 
failure  and  mortified  at  young  Raymond's 
success,  the  manager  took  the  drama  from 
the  bills  and  substituted  another  programme. 
Not  satisfied  with  Brougham's  adaptation, — 
for  the  novel  had  been  badly  dramatized, — 
he  and  the  adapter  worked  together  to  recon- 
struct the  play. 

The  great  comedian  now  set  himself  seri- 
ously to  work  on  the  character,  perfecting 
himself  in  the  words,  and  amplifying  the  part  by 
the  introduction  of  stage-business  and  by-play. 
In  this  kind  of  ingenious  elaboration  he  was 
a  master,  and  clearly  proved  it  on  the  revival 
of  the  discarded  play.  His  performance  was 
in  magnificent  condition  when  I  witnessed  it, 
and  who  that  ever  saw  Burton  as  Captain 
Cuttle,  Mariner  can  ever  forget  it  ?  What  ex- 
pression !  what  breadth !  what  humor !  and 
what  tenderness ! 

Vol.  XL.— 108-109. 


In  the  scene  with  Floi'ence  Do?nbey  where 
he  is  trying  to  reveal  to  her  that  her  lover,  sup- 
posed to  be  drowned,  was  rescued,  he  sits  awk- 
wardly shifting  his  position  from  side  to  side, 
puffs  his  pipe  and  tells  his  tale,  letting  the  story 
go  from  him  little  by  little  and  hauling  it  back 
lest  the  joyful  tidings  should  be  too  great  a 
shock,  his  fat  face  drawn  down  with  serio- 
comic emotion,  his  eyes  protruding  in  a  sol- 
emn, stupid  stare,  and  his  utterance  choked 
with  tears  that  seem  to  force  themselves  out 
and  mingle  with  the  smoke.  As  the  door  bursts 
open  and  the  returned  lover  clasps  his  sweet- 
heart in  his  arms  the  captain  jumps  from  his 
seat,  cocks  his  tarpaulin  hat  over  his  eyes,  folds 
his  arms  tightly,  and,  trying  to  whistle  a  tune, 
bursts  into  tears  and  dances  a  sailor's  hornpipe 
around  the  loving  couple.  I  had  heard  of  his 
missing  the  part  at  first;  but  he  was  in  the 
height  of  his  triumph  when  I  saw  the  perform- 
ance, and  it  was  amazing  to  see  into  what  a 
superb  success  he  had  elaborated  a  failure. 

If  any  proofs  were  wanting  that  an  actor, 
no  matter  how  great,  should  arrange  the  me- 
chanical details  of  his  work  before  he  presents 
it  to  the  public,  the  failure  and  ultimate  suc- 
cess of  Burton's  Captain  Cuttle  offer  sufficient 
evidence.  Here  stood  an  actor  to  whom 
dramatic  genius  was  universally  accorded. 
Yet  even  he  had  been  taught  a  lesson,  and 
learned  not  to  place  too  much  confidence  in 
the  spur  of  the  moment. 

SHOULD  AN  ACTOR  " FEEL "  HIS  PART  ? 

Much  has  been  written  upon  the  question 
as  to  whether  an  actor  ought  to  feel  the  char- 
acter he  acts,  or  be  dead  to  any  sensations 
in  this  direction.  Excellent  artists  differ  in 
their  opinions  on  this  important  point.  In  dis- 
cussing it  I  must  refer  to  some  words  I  wrote 
in  one  of  the  early  chapters  of  this  book : 

The  methods  by  which  actors  arrive  at  great  ef- 
fects vary  according  to  their  own  natures  ;  this  ren- 
ders the  teaching  of  the  art  by  any  strictly  defined 
lines  a  difficult  matter. 

There  has  lately  been  a  discussion  on  the 
subject,  in  which  many  have  taken  part,  and 
one  quite  notable  debate  between  two  dis- 
tinguished actors,  one  of  the  English  and  the 
other  of  the  French  stage.  These  gentlemen, 
though  they  differ  entirely  in  their  ideas,  arc, 
nevertheless,  equally  right.  The  method  of 
one,  1  have  no  doubt,  is  the  best  he  could 
possibly  devise  for  himself;  and  the  same  may 
be  said  of  the  rules  of  the  other  as  applied  to 
himself.  But  they  must  work  with  their  own 
tools;  if  they  had  to  adopt  each  other's  they 
would  be  as  much  confused  as  if  compelled  to 


826 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


exchange  languages.  One  believes  that  he 
must  feel  the  character  he  plays,  even  to  the 
shedding  of  real  tears,  while  the  other  prefers 
never  to  lose  himself  for  an  instant,  and  there 
is  no  doubt  that  they  both  act  with  more  effect 
by  adhering  to  their  own  dogmas. 

For  myself,  I  know  that  I  act  best  when 
the  heart  is  warm  and  the  head  is  cool.  In 
observing  the  works  of  great  painters  I  find 
that  they  have  no  conventionalities  except 
their  own ;  hence  they  are  masters,  and  each 
is  at  the  head  of  his  own  school.  They  are 
original,  and  could  not  imitate  even  if  they 
would. 

So  with  acting,  no  master-hand  can  pre- 
scribe rules  for  the  head  of  another  school.  If, 
then,  I  appear  bold  in  putting  forth  my  sugges- 
tions, I  desire  it  to  be  clearly  understood  that 
I  do  not  present  them  to  original  or  experi- 
enced artists  who  have  formed  their  school, 
but  to  the  student  who  may  have  a  tempera- 
ment akin  to  my  own,  and  who  could,  there- 
fore, blend  my  methods  with  his  preconceived 
ideas. 

DRAMATIC   WRITING. 

On  the  discovery  of  a  mysterious  murder, 
when  all  are  at  a  loss  as  to  who  has  committed 
the  deed,  the  first  thing  the  detective  searches 
for  is  motive.  If  the  murderer  be  not  insane 
a  motive  must  exist;  and  as  the  actions  of  our 
lives,  when  we  are  in  a  state  of  reflection  and 
cool  deliberation,  spring  from  this  cause,  so 
must  the  playwright,  in  the  construction  of 
his  plot  and  the  action  of  his  characters,  give 
us  motive. 

Again,  an  audience  should  never  be  kept 
in  the  dark  as  to  the  true  state  of  all  mat- 
ters connected  with  the  play,  particularly  in 
comedy.  Let  the  characters  be  deceived  and 
entangled  in  a  perfect  labyrinth  of  difficulties 
if  you  will,  but  the  audience  must  know  just 
how  the  matter  stands,  or  they  cannot  enjoy  the 
confusion  of  the  actors.  For  example,  in  "  She 
Stoops  to  Conquer,"  when  young  Marlow 
makes  love  to  Miss  Hardcastle  he  thinks  that 
she  is  the  barmaid,  but  the  audience  know 
perfectly  well  that  she  is  not ;  hence  they  en- 
joy his  mistake.  If  they  had  not  been  let  into 
the  secret  the  effect  would  be  lost;  but  an 
"  equivoke  "  scene,  wherein  both  characters 
are  deceived  as  to  each  other's  identity,  is  the 
most  enjoyable,  and  requires  perhaps  more  in- 
genuity in  its  construction  than  any  other 
branch  of  writing  in  comedy.  Such  a  scene,  too, 
must  be  rendered  with  great  skill  and  the  most 
perfect  seriousness :  if  a  smile  should  steal  over 
the  actor's  face,  showing  that  he  inwardly  sees 
the  humor  of  the  situation,  the  whole  effect  will 
be  lost.  The  bewilderment  of  the  characters 
must  be  supreme,  and  as  the  scene  progresses 


and  they  become  more  and  more  entangled 
their  blank  looks  of  amazement  delight  the 
audience,  who  alone  are  in  the  secret. 


A    FAULT    OF    FRENCH    ACTING. 

The  supremacy  in  both  the  writing  and  act- 
ing of  comedy  has  been  for  many  years  accorded 
to  the  French  stage.  My  opinion  upon  this 
subject  will  be  of  little  value.  An  American 
comedian  acting  only  in  the  English  language 
could  scarcely  speak  with  confidence  on  this 
subject  unless  he  understood  and  spoke  the 
French  language  as  well  as  the  French  actors 
themselves.  In  tragedy  the  matter  would  be 
quite  different.  The  expressions  of  love,  jeal- 
ousy, hate,  revenge,  pride,  madness,  or  despair 
are  so  pronounced  in  tragedy  that  we  can  judge 
of  their  intensity  and  effect  in  any  language. 
Comedy  has  but  little  to  do  with  the  violent  ex- 
hibition of  these  passions.  Its  effects  are  more 
subtile,  and  depend  much  upon  minute  detail, 
accompanied  by  slight  but  most  important  in- 
flections of  the  voice,  and  by  delicate  panto- 
mime. No  one  not  thoroughly  and  practi- 
cally acquainted  with  the  French  language 
could  offer  a  fair  opinion  upon  French  acting. 
I  can  only  say  that  I  saw  much  of  French 
comedy  in  France  and  was  delighted  with  it. 
Its  grace  and  finish  were  quite  perfect,  and  in 
acting  their  comedy  I  should  say  that  the  come- 
dians were  exceptionally  fine;  but,  with  all  their 
excellence,  there  is  one  glaring  fault  which  I 
think  I  may  venture  to  express  condemnation 
of,  no  matter  in  what  language  it  occurs,  and 
which  I  think  they  could  hardly  themselves 
defend — I  mean  the  unnatural  trick  of  speaking 
soliloquy  and  side  speeches  directly  to  the 
audience.  We  should  &oX.for  the  audience,  not 
to  the  audience.  To  appeal  every  now  and  then 
to  the  front  of  the  theater  for  recognition  is  an 
exhibition  of  weakness.  An  actor  who  cannot 
speak  a  speech  with  his  back  to  the  audience 
when  the  situation  demands  it  has  much  to 
learn.  As  soon  as  we  acknowledge  the  presence 
of  the  public  we  dispel  its  attention  and  ruin  its 
enjoyment.  We  were  forced  to  do  this  in  the 
days  when  we  were  his  Majesty's  servants,  and 
when  it  was  considered  disrespectful  to  turn  our 
backs  on  royalty.  How  absurd  to  see  a  courtier 
present  a  document  at  the  foot  of  the  throne 
in  the  play  and  sidle  up  the  stage  with  his  back 
to  the  mimic  king  because  the  real  article  is 
in  the  royal  box  ! 

THE   ACTORS    OF    TO-DAY. 

We  have,  I  think,  a  natural  tendency  to 
dignify  the  events  of  the  past  beyond  their 
deserts,  and  so  we  often  throw  a  glamour  of  ex- 
cellence over  departed  actors  which  we  would 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


827 


not  accord  to  them  if  they  were  here.  This, 
of  course,  is  erring  upon  the  safe  side.  The 
only  danger  is  that  our  reverence  may  at  times 
cause  us  to  disparage  the  good  qualities  of 
those  who  are  among  us.  Dramatic  affairs, 
too,  have  undergone  a  change  that  renders 
a  fair  judgment  almost  impossible.  For  in- 
stance, the  actors  of,  say,  forty  years  ago 
rarely  visited  the  smaller  cities :  they  were 
concentrated  in  the  larger  ones ;  but  now  the 
demand  for  dramatic  excellence  is  so  great, 
and  the  facilities  for  travel  are  so  extended, 
that  the  same  amount  of  talent  is  diffused  all 
over  the  world ;  so  we  are  apt  to  fancy  that  it 
does  not  exist  because  it  is  not  with  us.  If  all 
the  great  actors  of  to-day  were  concentrated 
into  a  few  companies,  as  was  formerly  the  case, 
we  would  be  amazed  at  the  entertainment 
they  would  give  us. 

IMITATION    AND    ACTING. 

Dramatic  instinct  is  inherent  throughout 
the  human  family.  Savages,  even  of  the  low- 
est type,  are  never  so  enthusiastic  as  when  they 
indulge  in  ceremonies  representing  death  and 
destruction.  They  will  start  upon  an  ideal 
warpath,  suddenly  stopping  to  scalp  an  imag- 
inary enemy.  The  New  Zealanders,  who  both 
physically  and  intellectually  are  far  above  the 
ordinary  savage,  are  excellent  in  pantomimic 
action.  They  will  even  act  scenes  and  crudely 
represent  historical  traditions  of  their  tribe. 

Watch  the  little  boy  in  frocks  —  not  two 
years  old.  If  you  would  delight  him,  fold  a 
piece  of  paper  into  the  shape  of  a  cocked  hat, 
pop  it  on  his  head,  then  give  him  a  stick,  and 
in  a  moment  the  little  fellow  will  straighten 
up  and  begin  to  march  about,  pretending  that 
he  is  a  soldier.  If,  in  another  year,  you  supply 
him  with  a  shovel  and  a  wheelbarrow,  you  will 
see  him  trudge  off,  joining  others  of  his  own 
age  who  are  building  embankments  or  digging 
canals,  and  calling  one  another  by  names  that 
do  not  belong  to  them,  acting  and  pretending 
that  they  are  somebody  else.  A  group  of  little 
girls  will  not  have  been  in  the  room  together 
twenty  minutes  before  one  will  play  lady  as  if 
she  had  just  called,  and  another  pretend  she  is 
the  hostess,  and  the  smallest  of  all  act  mother 
and  nurse  her  doll  with  loving  care.  After  a 
time  the  grown-up  people  in  the  room  will  draw 
one  another's  attention  to  this  little  drama,  and, 
not  wishing  to  interrupt  the  play,  will  quietly 
nudge  their  neighbors  and  nod  approvingly. 

The  lawyer  often  clears  his  guilty  client  by 
depicting  the  sorrow  of  a  family  who  will  be 
stricken  down  with  grief  if  the  jury  should  con- 
vict. The  influence  of  the  stage  has  crept  into 
the  pulpit,  which  to-day  contains  some  of  the 
finest  actors  of  our  time. 


Here,  then,  we  have  evidence  not  only  that 
this  dramatic  instinct  pervades  all  classes 
of  humanity,  but  that  its  possessors  insist 
upon  displaying  their  artistic  qualities.  And 
the  encouragement  of  this  desire  is  as  uni- 
versal as  the  gift;  for  theaters,  opera  houses, 
lecture  rooms,  and  churches  all  over  the  world 
are  filled  with  eager  audiences  anxious  to  wit- 
ness any,  and  all,  brilliant  dramatic  achieve- 
ments. The  demand,  too,  is  increasing.  Half 
a  century  ago  there  were  but  few  good  theaters 
in  America,  and  even  these  were  badly  lighted, 
poorly  heated,  and  indifferently  appointed. 
In  many  of  the  small  towns  the  only  places 
used  for  dramatic  entertainments  were  the 
dining-rooms  of  the  hotels,  from  which,  after 
tea,  the  tables  were  removed  and  the  chairs  set 
back  that  the  play  might  be  acted.  Now,  in 
nearly  all  of  the  new  and  rising  cities,  the  thea- 
ter or  the  opera  house  is  centrally  located ;  and  it 
is  generally  the  finest  building,  both  in  point  of 
size  and  architecture,  to  be  seen  —  heated  with 
steam,  lighted  by  electricity,  and  provided 
with  every  comfort.  Within  these  temples 
actors,  opera  singers,  minstrels,  and  ministers 
hold  forth,  and  the  same  audience  goes  to  hear 
them  all. 

The  desire  for  dramatic  entertainment  has 
resolved  itself  into  a  tidal  wave  that  nothing 
can  stop,  particularly  as  there  is  no  desire  to 
impede  it.  It  has  not  the  fleeting  character  of 
a  political  movement  that  might  change  with 
the  new  influence  of  the  next  Administration  ; 
it  belongs  to  no  party ;  it  is  born  of  no  sect ; 
but  it  is  the  outcome  of  a  universal  passion. 

I  think  it  is  generally  conceded  that  imita- 
tors are  seldom  fine  actors,  though  they  are 
usually  great  favorites  with  the  public.  I  con- 
fess that  I  enjoy  the  exhibitions  of  this  kind 
of  talent  exceedingly.  There  is  something  very 
attractive  and  even  strange  to  see  one  man 
display  the  voice,  manner,  and  expression  of 
another  —  particularly  if  that  other  be  not 
yourself.  We  may  enjoy  the  imitation  of  our 
dearest  friends,  but  our  smiles  vanish  and 
our  faces  elongate  if  the  mimic  attempts 
to  give  a  "  counterfeit  presentment "  of  the 
party  of  the  first  part.  I  have  heroically  tried 
on  several  occasions  to  enjoy  imitations  of 
myself,  but  have  never  succeeded.  These  in- 
genious transcripts  contain  a  slight  touch  of 
ridicule  that  always  offends  the  original.  An 
anecdote  of  Mr.  Buckstone,  the  English  come- 
dian, will  serve  to  illustrate  what  I  have  said. 
He  was  an  actor  whose  mannerisms  were  so 
marked  that  they  infused  themselves  through 
all  the  characters  he  played.  He  was  undoubt- 
edly humorous,  or,  more  properly  speaking, 
funny;  but  whether  he  acted  Sir  Andrew 
Aguecheek  or  Cousin  Joe  he  seemed  to  have 
no  power  of  embodying  the  character  —  ren- 


828 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


dering  each  of  them  with  the  same  voice,  man- 
ner, and  attitude;  consequently,  he  was  an 
admirable  subject  for  imitation. 

At  the  close  of  a  dinner  party  he  had  been 
given  to  understand  that  there  was  a  person 
present  who  gave  an  excellent  imitation  of 
himself.  Buckstone  at  once  desired  the  gentle- 
man to  let  the  company  have  a  test  of  his 
quality.  The  gentleman  politely  declined, 
saying  that  he  might  give  offense;  but  the 
comedian  would  not  let  him  off,  insisted  on 
the  exhibition,  and,  rubbing  his  hands  to- 
gether with  great  glee,  settled  himself  down 
for  unlimited  enjoyment.  The  imitator,  see- 
ing that  there  was  no  escape,  arose,  and  amid 
breathless  silence  began.  His  hit  was  im- 
mense, and  as  he  sat  down  the  guests  broke 
forth  in  loud  laughter  and  applause :  the 
whole  table  was  in  a  roar  of  merriment ;  every 
one  was  in  ecstasy  except  Buckstone,  who 
looked  the  picture  of  misery. 

"  Well,  Mr.  Buckstone,"  exclaimed  a  wag, 
who  was  quietly  enjoying  the  comedian's  dis- 
comfiture, "  don't  you  think  the  imitation  very 
fine  ?  " 

"  It  may  be,"  he  replied,  "  but  I  think  I 
could  do  it  better  myself." 

Acting  is  more  a  gift  than  an  art.  I  have 
seen  a  child  impress  an  audience  by  its  nat- 
ural grace  and  magnetism.  The  little  creature 
was  too  young  to  know  what  art  meant,  but 
it  had  the  gift  of  acting.  The  great  value  of 
art  when  applied  to  the  stage  is  that  it  en- 
ables the  performer  to  reproduce  the  gift,  and 
so  move  his  audience  night  after  night,  even 
though  he  has  acted  the  same  character  a 
thousand  times.  In  fact,  we  cannot  act  a  char- 
acter too  often,  if  we  do  not  lose  interest  in 
it.  But  when  its  constant  repetition  palls  on 
the  actor  it  will  as  surely  weary  his  audience. 
When  you  lose  interest  —  stop  acting. 

FRESHNESS  IN  PLAYING  A  PART. — A  STORY  OF 
MRS.  WARNER  AND  MACREADY. 

This  loss  of  interest  on  the  part  of  the  actor 
may  not  be  visible  in  the  action  or  pantomime; 
but  unless  care  and  judgment  are  observed  it 
will  assuredly  betray  itself  in  the  delivery  of 
the  language,  and  more  particularly  in  the 
long  speeches  and  soliloquies.  In  dialogue 
the  spirit  of  the  other  actors  serves  to  stimulate 
and  keep  him  up ;  but  when  alone,  and  unaided 
by  the  eye  and  presence  of  a  companion,  the 
old  story  fails  to  kindle  the  fire.  An  anecdote 
of  Macready  that  I  heard  many  years  ago 
throws  a  flood  of  light  upon  this  subject ; 
and  as  I  think  it  too  important  a  one  to  re- 
main in  obscurity,  I  will  relate  it  as  I  got  it 
from  Mr.  Couldock,  and  then  refer  to  its  in- 
fluence upon  myself  and  the  means  I  used  to 


profit  by  it.  The  incident  occurred  in  Bir- 
mingham in  England  some  forty  years  ago. 
The  narrator  was  present,  and  naturally  listened 
with  interest  to  a  conversation  upon  art  be- 
tween two  such  able  exponents  of  it  as  Mr. 
Macready  and  Mrs.  Warner.  What  they  said 
referred  to  an  important  scene  in  the  tragedy 
of  "  Werner,"  that  had  been  acted  the  even- 
ing before. 

Mr.  Macready,  it  seems,  had  much  respect 
for  Mrs.  Warner's  judgment  in  matters  relating 
to  the  stage,  and  desired  to  consult  her  on  the 
merits  and  demerits  of  the  preceding  evening's 
performance.  As  nearly  as  they  can  be  remem- 
bered, his  question  and  her  reply  were  as 
follows : 

"  My  dear  madam,"  said  Macready,  "  you 
have  acted  with  me  in  the  tragedy  of  '  Werner ' 
for  many  years,  and  naturally  must  be  very  fa- 
miliar with  it,  and  with  my  manner  of  acting  that 
character.  I  have  noticed  lately,  and  more 
particularly  last  evening,  that  some  of  the  pas- 
sages in  the  play  do  not  produce  the  effect  that 
they  formerly  did.  There  is  a  certain  speech  es- 
pecially that  seems  to  have  lost  its  power.  I 
allude  to  the  one  wherein  Werner  excuses  him- 
self to  his  son  for  the  '  petty  plunder '  of  Stral- 
enheim's  gold.  In  our  earlier  performances, 
if  you  remember,  this  apology  was  received 
with  marked  favor,  and,  as  you  must  have  ob- 
served, last  evening  it  produced  no  apparent 
effect.  Can  you  form  any  idea  why  this  should 
be  ?  Is  it  that  the  audience  has  grown  too 
familiar  with  the  story  ?  I  must  beg  you  to 
be  candid  with  me.  I  shall  not  be  offended 
by  any  adverse  criticism  that  you  may 
make,  should  you  say  that  the  fault  is  with 
me." 

"  Well,  Mr.  Macready,  since  you  desire  that 
I  should  speak  plainly,"  said  Mrs.  Warner,  "  I 
do  not  think  that  it  is  because  your  audience 
is  too  familiar  with  the  story,  but  because  you 
are  too  familiar  with  it  yourself." 

"  I  thank  you,  madam,"  said  Macready ; 
"  but  how  does  this  mar  the  effect  of  the 
speech  ?  " 

"  Thus,"  said  Mrs.  Warner.  "  When  you 
spoke  that  speech  ten  years  ago  there  was  a 
surprise  in  your  face  as  though  you  then  only 
realized  what  you  had  done.  You  looked 
shocked  and  bewildered,  and  in  a  forlorn  way 
seemed  to  cast  about  for  words  that  would 
excuse  the  crime ;  and  all  this  with  a  depth  of 
feeling  and  sincerity  that  would  naturally  come 
from  an  honest  man  who  had  been  for  the  first 
time  in  his  life  accused  of  theft." 

"  That  is  as  it  should  be  given,"  said  Mac- 
ready  ;  "  and  now,  madam  ?  " 

"  You  speak  it,"  said  his  frank  critic,  "  like 
one  who  has  committed  a  great  many  thefts 
in  his  life,  and  whose  glib  excuses  are  so  pat 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


829 


and  frequent  that  he  is  neither  shocked,  sur- 
prised, nor  abashed  at  the  accusation." 

"  I  thank  you,  madam,"  said  the  old  actor. 
"  The  distinction  may  appear  at  first  as  a  nice 
one,  but  there  is  much  in  it." 

When  I  heard  the  story  from  Mr.  Couldock 
it  struck  me  with  much  force.  I  knew  then 
that  I  had  been  unconsciously  falling  into  the 
same  error,  and  I  felt  that  the  fault  would  in- 
crease rather  than  diminish  with  time  if  I  could 
not  hit  upon  some  method  to  check  it.  I  began 
by  listening  to  each  important  question  as 
though  it  had  been  given  for  the  first  time, 
turning  the  query  over  in  my  mind  and  then 
answering  it,  even  at  times  hesitating  as  if  for 
want  of  words  to  frame  the  reply.  I  will  ad- 
mit that  this  is  dangerous  ground  and  apt  to  ren- 
der one  slow  and  prosy;  in  fact,  I  was  accused, 
and  I  dare  say  quite  justly,  of  pausing  too 
long.  This,  of  course,  was  the  other  extreme 
and  had  to  be  looked  to,  so  that  it  became 
necessary  that  the  pauses  should,  by  the  man- 
ner and  pantomime,  be  made  sufficiently 
interesting  not  to  weary  an  audience;  so  I 
summed  it  up  somewhat  after  the  advice  of 
Mr.  Lewes — to  take  time  without  appearing 
to  take  time. 

It  is  the  freshness,  the  spontaneity,  of  acting 
that  charms.  How  can  a  weary  brain  pro- 
duce this  quality  ?  Show  me  a  tired  actor  and 
I  will  show  you  a  dull  audience.  They  may 
go  in  crowds  to  see  him,  and  sit  patiently 
through  his  performance.  They  have  heard 
that  he  is  great,  they  may  even  know  it  from 
past  experience ;  so  they  accept  the  indifferent 
art,  thinking  perhaps  that  they  are  to  blame 
for  a  lack  of  enthusiasm. 

Pantomimic  action,  unless  it  is  in  perfect 
harmony  with  the  scene,  is  fatal  to  the  effect 
of  a  delicate  point.  If  the  situation  be  a  vio- 
lent one,  such  as  the  preparation  for  battle  in 
"  Richard,"  or  where  Hamlet's  uncle  rises  from 
his  seat  in  the  play  scene,  dismissing  the  au- 
dience, the  situation  being  pronounced  and  the 
action  strong,  indifferent  pantomime  upon 
the  part  of  the  actors  might  not  be  noticed  in  the 
bustle  and  excitement.  But,  to  exemplify  my 
meaning,  let  us  take  a  point  where  the  audience 
is  called  upon,  not  for  enthusiastic  applause,  but 
for  rapt  attention ;  where  the  situation  is  so 
subtile  that  the  head  bowed  slowly  down,  or 
a  movement  of  the  eye,  will  reveal  the  mean- 
ing. Now,  at  this  critical  point,  if  one  of  the 
actors  should  even  remove  his  hat,  or  unmean- 
ingly shift  his  position,  he  will  destroy  the  ef- 
fect. The  finer  the  acting  the  more  easily  it  is 
destroyed,  just  as  a  scratch  will  disfigure  a  pol- 
ished surface  that  would  not  show  on  the  face 
of  a  cobblestone. 

The  audience  cannot  look  in  two  places  at 
once ;  the  eye  is  such  a  tyrant  that  it  distracts 


from  the  subject  "  then  necessary  to  be  con- 
sidered," directing  the  attention  to  a  useless 
and  intrusive  movement.  The  value  of  repose 
is  so  great  that  it  is  difficult  to  estimate  it. 

At  rehearsal  the  amateur,  having  finished 
his  speech,  invariably  asks  of  the  stage-mana- 
ger what  he  should  do  next.  As  soon  as  he 
ceases  to  be  the  interesting  figure  he  should 
observe  the  action  of  the  other  characters ; 
this  is  the  most  natural  by-play,  and  the  least 
likely  to  do  harm.  It  acts  like  the  distance  in 
a  picture,  that,  by  being  subdued,  gives  strength 
to  the  foreground.  But  the  tyro  is  generally 
fearful  that  he  will  fail  to  attract  attention, 
whereas  obscurity  instead  of  prominence  may 
at  that  time  be  the  more  desirable.  To  do 
nothing  upon  the  stage  seems  quite  simple, 
but  some  people  never  acquire  this  negative 
capacity. 

For  instance  in  "  The  Rivals  "  it  is  David's 
speech  that  terrifies  Acres.  How  could  an 
audience  get  the  full  value  of  what  David  says 
if  they  were  looking  at  the  face  of  Acres  ? 
The  two  characters  would  conflict  with  each 
other,  and  so  rob  the  picture  of  clearness. 
But  if  Acres  here  will  subdue  his  personality 
and  sink,  as  it  were,  into  the  background, 
the  audience  will  get  the  full  force  of  what 
David  says,  and  become  as  perfectly  satu- 
rated with  its  meaning  as  Acres  himself.  Now 
see  how  fully  they  are  prepared  to  receive 
the  expression  of  fear  from  the  latter.  After 
David's  scene  is  over,  Acres  has  the  audience 
at  his  full  command  —  the  slightest  sugges- 
tion from  him  is  taken  up  at  once.  They 
know  his  character  and  realize  his  position  as 
vividly  as  he  does  himself;  it  is  because  they 
have  had  the  full  and  uninterrupted  ben- 
efit of  the  previous  scene.  If,  during  David's 
speech,  I,  as  Acres,  show  my  face  to  the  au- 
dience or  pull  out  my  handkerchief  and  weep, 
I  might  gain  a  temporary  advantage,  but  I 
should  weaken  David,  and  in  the  end  mar  the 
effect  of  my  own  character;  and,  believe  me, 
an  audience  is  always  grateful  to  an  actor  who 
directs  its  attention  the  right  way.  The  trav- 
eler thanks  the  truthful  finger-post,  but  never 
forgives  the  rascal  who  has  misdirected  him. 

Nothing  in  art  is  more  distressing"  than  to  see 
an  actor  attract  the  attention  of  the  audience, 
from  an  interesting  point  in  the  performance, 
by  the  introduction  of  some  unimportant  by- 
play. At  times  this  is  done  from  ignorance, 
but,  I  regret  to  say,  often  through  jealousy. 
This  unfair  spirit  reflects  back  upon  the  guilty 
party,  for  the  public  resent  it  quietly  while  the 
offender  least  suspects  it:  their  enjoyment  has 
been  marred,  and  the  obnoxious  cause  of  it 
has  only  consoled  them  by  a  display  of  un- 
meaning activity  ;  they  refuse  this  rubbish  and 
inwardly  mark  the  individual  who  has  had  the 


83o 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


impertinence  to  offer  it.  But  as  two  pigs  un- 
der a  gate  make  more  noise  than  one,  it  is  still 
worse  to  see  a  pair  of  ranters  or  a  couple  of 
buffoons  trying  to  outdo  each  other.  There  is 
but  one  recompense ;  they  are  both  self-slaugh- 
tered in  the  conflict, 

As  two  spent  swimmers,  that  do  cling  together, 
And  choke  their  art. 


LEARNING   TO    ACT. 

Many  instructors  in  the  dramatic  art  fall 
into  the  error  of  teaching  too  much.  The  pupil 
should  first  be  allowed  to  exhibit  his  quality, 
and  so  teach  the  teacher  what  to  teach.  This 
course  would  answer  the  double  purpose  of 
first  revealing  how  much  the  pupil  is  capable 
of  learning,  and,  what  is  still  more  important, 
of  permitting  him  to  display  his  powers  un- 
trammeled.  Whereas,  if  the  master  begins  by 
pounding  his  dogmas  into  the  student,  the  lat- 
ter becomes  environed  by  a  foreign  influence 
which,  if  repugnant  to  his  nature,  may  smother 
his  ability. 

It  is  necessary  to  be  cautious  in  studying  elo- 
cution and  gesticulation,  lest  they  become  our 
masters  instead  of  our  servants.  These  neces- 
sary but  dangerous  ingredients  must  be  ad- 
ministered and  taken  in  homeopathic  doses,  or 
the  patient  may  die  by  being  overstimulated. 
But,  even  at  the  risk  of  being  artificial,  it  is 
better  to  have  studied  these  arbitrary  rules 
than  to  enter  a  profession  with  no  knowledge 
whatever  of  its  mechanism.  Dramatic  instinct 
is  so  implanted  in  humanity  that  it  sometimes 
misleads  us,  fostering  the  idea  that  because 
we  have  the  natural  talent  within  we  are 
equally  endowed  with  the  power  of  bringing 
it  out.  This  is  the  common  error,  the  rock 
on  which  the  histrionic  aspirant  is  oftenest 
wrecked.  Very  few  actors  succeed  who  crawl 
into  the  service  through  the  "  cabin  windows  " ; 
and  if  they  do  it  is  a  lifelong  regret  with  them 
that  they  did  not  exert  their  courage  and  sail 
at  first  "before  the  mast." 

Many  of  the  shining  lights  who  now  oc- 
cupy the  highest  positions  on  the  stage,  and 
whom  the  public  voice  delights  to  praise, 
have  often  appeared  in  the  dreaded  character 
of  omnes,  marched  in  processions,  sung  out 
of  tune  in  choruses,  and  shouted  themselves 
hoarse  for  Brutus  and  Mark  Antony. 

If  necessity  is  the  mother  of  invention,  she 
is  the  foster-mother  of  art,  for  the  greatest  ac- 
tors that  ever  lived  have  drawn  their  early 
nourishment  from  her  breast.  We  learn  our 
profession  by  the  mortifications  we  are  com- 
pelled to  go  through  in  order  to  get  a  living. 
The  sons  and  daughters  of  wealthy  parents 
who  have  money  at  their  command,  and  can 


settle  their  weekly  expenses  without  the  assist- 
ance of  the  box  office,  indignantly  refuse  to 
lower  themselves  by  assuming  some  subordi- 
nate character  for  which  they  are  cast,  and 
march  home  because  their  fathers  and  mothers 
will  take  care  of  them.  Well,  they  had  better 
stay  there ! 

If  Edmund  Kean  had  been  rich  the  chances 
are  that  he  would  never  have  submitted  to 
the  insults  of  the  manager  and  some  of  the 
actors  during  the  memorable  rehearsal  at 
Drury  Lane  Theater.  He  would  perhaps  have 
broken  his  engagement  and  retired  from  the 
stage  in  disgust;  but  half  starved  and  thread- 
bare, his  loved  wife  and  child  living  in  a  garret, 
he  had  a  noble  motive  to  stimulate  his  power, 
and  I  believe  that  Kean  on  the  night  of  his 
first  appearance  in  London  was  a  greater  ac- 
tor than  he  had  ever  been  before.  His  situa- 
tion was  desperate,  and  aroused  the  slumber- 
ing genius  within  him.  The  whole  history  of 
that  eventful  night  impresses  one  with  the  idea 
that  he  was  himself  surprised  at  what  he  did. 
Fitzgerald,  in  his  admirable  "  Romance  of  the 
English  Stage,"  says  that  "  Kean  had  a  gallant 
confidence  in  himself  all  through."  There  is 
nothing  in  the  story  that  implies  this.  He  had 
courage,  no  doubt,  or  he  could  not  have  made 
the  effort ;  but  it  was  fitful  and  uncertain. 
Genius  is  seldom  confident.  Fitzgerald  him- 
self quotes  the  last  words  Kean  said  as  he 
left  his  house  for  the  theater.  "  He  kissed  his 
wife  and  infant  son,  and  muttered,  '  I  wish  I 
were  going  to  be  shot.' "  There  is  no  confi- 
dence in  these  terrible  words.  They  show  the 
brave  nature  of  the  man  because  he  was  not 
confident.  Who  can  say  how  fervently  he  may 
have  prayed  as  he  trudged  through  the  dark, 
wet  streets,  with  a  beating  heart  and  a  nervous 
foreboding  of  disaster  in  the  approaching  trial  ? 
His  hit  was  tremendous,  and,  when  the  mana- 
ger congratulated  him  on  his  wonderful  suc- 
cess, in  Kean's  own  description  of  the  event 
he  said,  "  The  pit  rose  at  me."  This  sounds 
confident,  I  admit ;  but  the  remark  was  made 
after  the  battle  was  won. 

The  whole  picture  is  more  interesting  and 
truthful  when  we  view  the  man  as  being  fully 
alive  to  the  danger  of  the  situation  and  appre- 
hensive lest  the  invisible  genius  within  him 
should  fail  to  appear.  When  this  mysterious 
influence,  which  comes  unbidden,  burst  forth  at 
the  theater  that  night,  the  public  were  amazed, 
the  critics  stunned,  and  Kean  himself  was  sur- 
prised. No  intellectual  effort  could  have  cre- 
ated this  effect.  The  source  of  genius  is  in  the 
soul ;  it  seldom  aims  at  the  brains  of  the  au- 
dience, but  oftener  shoots  at  their  hearts  through 
its  own.  It  shrinks  from  assuming  the  arro- 
gance that  commands  attention,  and  modestly 
invites  it. 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


831 


But  whether  you  are  rich  or  poor,  if  you 
would  be  an  actor  begin  afrthe  beginning.  This 
is  the  old  conventional  advice,  and  is  as  good 
now  in  its  old  age  as  it  was  in  its  youth.  All 
actors  will  agree  in  this,  and  as  Puff  says,  in 
"  The  Critic,"  "  When  they  do  agree  on  the 
stage  the  unanimity  is  wonderful."  Enroll  your- 
self as  a  "  super "  in  some  first-class  theater, 
where  there  is  a  stock  company  and  likely  to 
be  a  periodical  change  of  programme,  so  that 
even  in  your  low  degree  the  practice  will  be 
varied.  After  having  posed  a  month  as  an  in- 
nocent English  rustic,  you  may,  in  the  next  play, 
have  an  opportunity  of  being  a  noble  Roman. 
Do  the  little  you  have  to  do  as  well  as  you  can ; 
if  you  are  in  earnest  the  stage-manager  will 
soon  notice  it  and  your  advancement  will  be- 
gin at  once.  You  have  now  made  the  plunge, 
the  ice  is  broken ;  there  is  no  more  degradation 
for  you ;  every  step  you  take  is  forward. 

A  great  American  statesman  said,  "  There  is 
always  plenty  of  room  at  the  top."  So  there 
is,  Mr.  Webster,  after  you  get  there.  But  we 
must  climb,  and  climb  slowly  too,  so  that  we 
'can  look  back  without  any  unpleasant  sensa- 
tions; for  if  we  are  cast  suddenly  upon  the 
giddy  height  our  heads  will  swim  and  down 
we  shall  go.  Look  also  at  the  difficulties  that 
will  beset  you  by  beginning  "  at  the  top."  In 
the  first  place,  no  manager  in  his  senses  will 
permit  it;  and  if  he  did,  your  failure — which 
is  almost  inevitable  —  not  only  will  mortify 
you,  but  your  future  course  for  some  time  to 
come  will  be  on  the  downward  path.  Then, 
in  disgust,  sore  and  disheartened,  you  will  retire 
from  the  profession  which  perhaps  your  talents 
might  have  ornamented  if  they  had  been 
properly  developed. 

CONVERSATIONS    CONCERNING    "  RIP    VAN 
WINKLE." 

While  acting  once  in  Boston  I  received  a 
note  from  the  publisher  of  "  The  Atlantic 
Monthly,"  to  know  if  I  would  call  at  the  pub- 
lishing house  to  meet  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher 
Stowe.  It  seems  the  lady  had  been  at  the 
theater  where  I  had  acted  the  night  before, 
and  in  a  note  to  the  publisher  had  expressed  a 
desire  to  see  me.  We  had  a  long  and,  to  me, 
very  pleasant  chat.  In  speaking  of  her  visit 
to  the  theater  she  said  she  was  struck  by  the 
scene  in  which  Rip  Van  Winkle  meets  with  his 
daughter,  and  that  it  reminded  her  of  the  situ- 
ation between  Lear  and  Cordelia.  I  told  her 
that  the  scene  was  undoubtedly  modeled  on 
the  one  from  Shakspere,  and  perhaps  the 
white  hair  and  beard  floating  about  the  head 
of  the  old  Knickerbocker  had  some  share  in 
this  likeness.  She  said  she  was  sure  that  1 
could  play  Lear.    I  was  sorry  to  differ  with  a 


lady,  but  I  told  her  I  was  quite  sure  that  I 
could  not. 

Shortly  after  this  I  met  another  lady  of  equal 
intelligence  who  seemed  much  interested  in 
Rip  Van  Winkle.  Among  the  many  questions 
she  asked  of  me  was  how  I  could  act  the  char- 
acter so  often  and  not  tire  of  it.  I  told  her  that 
I  had  always  been  strangely  interested  in  the 
part,  and  fearing  that  I  might  eventually  grow 
weary  of  it,  I  had  of  late  years  so  arranged 
my  seasons  that  I  played  only  a  few  months 
and  took  long  spells  of  rest  between  them ;  but 
that  my  great  stimulus,  of  course,  was  public 
approval,  and  the  knowledge  that  it  must  cease 
if  I  flagged  in  my  interest  or  neglected  to  give 
my  entire  attention  to  the  work  while  it  was 
progressing. 

"  Another  question,  please.  Why  don't  you 
have  a  dog  in  the  play  ?  " 

I  replied  that  I  disliked  realism  in  art,  and 
realism  alive,  with  a  tail  to  wag  at  the  wrong 
time,  would  be  abominable. 

"  But  don't  you  think  that  the  public  would 
like  to  see  Schneider  ?  " 

"  The  public  could  not  pay  him  a  higher 
compliment,  for  it  shows  how  great  an  interest 
they  take  in  an  animal  that  has  never  been 
exhibited.  No,  no ;  '  hold  the  mirror  up  to  na- 
ture,' if  you  like,  but  don't  hold  nature  up  —  a 
reflection  of  the  thing,  but  not  the  thing 
itself.  How  badly  would  a  drunken  man  give 
an  exhibition  of  intoxication  on  the  stage ! 
Who  shall  act  a  madman,  but  one  who  is  per- 
fectly sane  ?  We  must  not  be  natural,  but  ap- 
pear to  be  so." 

"  One  question  more,  and  I  have  done. 
Why  do  you  not  refuse  the  cup  that  Gretche)i 
offers  you  at  the  end  of  the  play  ?  " 

To  which  I  replied  :  "  Should  Rip  refuse 
the  cup  the  drama  would  become  at  once  a 
temperance  play.  This  subject  has  both  its 
adherents  and  its  opponents,  and  has,  more- 
over, of  late  become  a  political  question.  The 
action  would  have  a  local  and  even  a  modern 
flavor.  I  should  as  soon  expect  to  hear  of 
Cinderella  striking  for  high  wages  or  of  a  speech 
on  woman's  rights  from  old  Mother  Hubbard 
as  to  listen  to  a  temperance  lecture  from  Rip 
Va?i  Winkle ;  it  would  take  all  the  poetry  and 
fairy-tale  element  completely  out  of  it.  1 
would  prefer  that  the  impression  on  the  audi- 
ence as  the  curtain  falls  should  be  suggestive. 
so  that  they  might  terminate  it  in  a  manner  most 
agreeable  to  themselves.  Let  us  not  suppose 
in  the  end  that  Rip  and  his  wife  get  ill,  send 
for  the  doctor,  take  pills,  and  die,  but  that  they 
sit  like  Darby  and  Joan  by  the  fireside  and 
eventually  go  up  the  chimney  in  the  smoke.  If 
1  Rip  Van  Winkle  '  had  been  treated  in  a  realis- 
tic manner  it  never  would  have  Lived  so  long." 

What  is  called  the  moral  drama  is  artificial 


832 


THE   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


and  insincere,  and  I  doubt  if  it  ever  taught  a 
wholesome  lesson.  Mr.  Gough's  mission  was  a 
different  one  from  mine.  In  his  entertainment 
he  announced  himself  as  a  temperance  lec- 
turer. The  audience  were  prepared  to  hear  and 
approve  of  his  views.  In  my  case  it  would  be 
a  deception  to  announce  a  play  and  preach  a 
sermon,  and  the  very  people  who  ask  for  it 
would  consider  it  an  impertinence  if  it  had 
been  gratuitously  offered. 

The  beautiful  lessons  contained  in  many  of 
the  plays  of  Shakspere  are  not  thrust  upon 
the  audience.  They  are  so  delicately  suggested 
that  the  listener  takes  the  splendid  truths  and 
hugs  them  to  his  heart.  The  great  dramatist 
does  not  stand  forth  and  dogmatically  expound 
his  views  on  acting,  but  mark  with  what  mod- 
esty he  shows  us  the  way  to  tread.  One  of  his 
characters,  Hamlet,  has  a  play,  and  with  kind 
consideration  takes  aside  the  actors  who  are 
to  perform  it  and  tells  them  how  he  would 
have  his  play  delivered.  These  simple  in- 
structions, of  not  more  than  a  dozen  lines, 
contain  the  whole  art  of  acting;  the  player  need 
go  no  further  for  instruction;  those  who  en- 
tangle themselves  in  a  labyrinth  of  arguments 
over  the  proper  or  improper  way  of  rendering 
plays  or  characters  can  settle  all  their  disputes 
by  this  little  speech. 

Again,  Polonius  does  not  sermonize  his  au- 
dience. As  his  only  son  is  leaving  home,  the 
youth  kneels  at  his  father's  feet  and  asks  a 
blessing:  who  would  not  wish  that  his  son 
should  go  through  life  freighted  with  such  pre- 
cepts ?  These  are  the  lessons  that  Shakspere 
has  taught  us,  and  this  must  surely  be  the  way 
to  teach  them.  So  it  would  seem  that  Shak- 
spere, in  giving  his  lessons  to  the  world,  is  like 
a  kind  father  who  when  his  son  has  been 
guilty  of  a  grave  offense,  instead  of  storming 
at  him  in  a  temper,  waits  until  the  wrong  is 
half  forgotten,  and  then  when  they  are  the 
best  of  friends  takes  the  little  fellow  on  his 
knee  and  tells  him  for  his  own  sake  what  he 
would  have  him  do. 


REALISM    ON   THE    STAGE. 

Realism  and  idealism  are  important  factors 
in  the  dramatic  art.  No  one,  I  think,  will 
question  the  fact  that  imagination  has  given 
us  the  highest  dramatic  compositions,  and 
that  it  enters  largely  into  the  best  form  of 
acting ;  and  there  is  a  strong  belief  that  the  in- 
troduction of  realism  into  plays  of  a  highly  po- 
etical character  often  goes  far  to  weaken  their 
effect.  We  are  told,  by  an  authority  that  no  one 
seems  inclined  to  dispute,  that  the  judgments 
of  the  judicious  "  should  outweigh  a  whole 
theater  of  others  " ;  but  then  who  are  in  this 
case  the  "  judicious  "  ?  May  it  not  be  the  many 


instead  of  the  few  ?  That  manager  is  un- 
questionably the  most  useful  who  entertains 
the  greatest  number  when  he  does  not  de- 
grade them,  and  certainly  there  is  no  degra- 
dation in  the  realistic  productions  in  question. 
So  the  matter  stands  just  where  it  did :  the 
audience  must  decide  which  it  prefers,  and  the 
actor  must  consider  how  far  these  introduc- 
tions may  assist  or  mar  his  work. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  during  the  earlier 
part  of  my  dramatic  career  to  add  the  romantic 
story  of  "  Rip  Van  Winkle  "  to  my  repertoire. 
I  was  attracted  by  the  poetic  nature  of  the 
legend,  and  endeavored  to  treat  it  in  harmony 
with  that  feature.  After  acting  it  for  many 
years  I  had  various  suggestions  made  to  me 
for  elaborating  the  spectacular  and  scenic  ef- 
fects of  the  play,  among  which  was  the  in- 
troduction of  several  fat  old  Knickerbockers 
smoking  their  long  pipes  and  quarreling  in 
Dutch,  a  large  windmill  with  the  sails  to  work, 
dairymaids  with  real  cows,  mechanical  effects 
for  the  sudden  and  mysterious  appearance  and 
disappearance  of  Hendrik  Hudson's  crew, 
and  in  the  last  act  the  Continental  army  with 
drums  and  fifes,  a  militia  training,  and  the  in- 
troduction of  patriotic  speeches  about  Ameri- 
can independence. 

So  unreal  a  theme  could  not  have  been  in- 
terwoven with  all  this  realism  without  marring 
the  play.  If  I  were  a  stage-manager  and 
were  producing  a  plain,  matter-of-fact  nautical 
drama,  where  the  characters  are  mere  com- 
monplace, everyday  people,  I  would  exert  all 
my  ingenuity  in  the  invention  of  realistic  ef- 
fects. The  ship  should  be  perfectly  modeled, 
the  masts  round,  the  sails  canvas,  and  the  coils 
of  rope  of  undoubted  veracity.  On  the  village 
green  I  would  place  cottages  built  out  and 
thatched  with  veritable  straw,  and  the  gar- 
lands of  roses  that  hung  from  the  May-pole 
should  perfume  the  auditorium,  if  Lubin's  ex- 
tract of  new-mown  hay  could  do  the  business ; 
but  I  should  hesitate  before  I  placed  smoking 
hot  joints  on  the  banquet  tables  of  "  Mac- 
beth." It  does  seem  out  of  place  that  the 
audience  should  have  their  nostrils  saluted 
with  the  odor  of  baked  meat  while  they  are 
gazing  at  the  awful  ghost  of  "  the  blood-bolt- 
ered  Banqao"  According  to  this  view  of  the 
subject,  realism  should  halt  before  it  trenches 
upon  or  vulgarizes  the  effect  of  a  poetical  play. 

PLAYING    "  RIP  "    IN   THE    CATSKILLS. 

One  more  curious  incident  occurs  to  me 
connected  with  this  play. 

There  is  in  the  village  of  Catskill  a  Rip 
Van  Winkle  Club.  This  society  did  me  the 
honor  to  invite  me  to  act  the  character  in 
their  town.    I  accepted,  and  when  I  arrived 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


&33 


was  met  by  the  worthy  president  and  other 
members  of  the  club,  among  whom  was  young 
Nicholas  Vedder,  who  claimed  to  be  a  lineal 
descendant  of  the  original  "  old  Nick."  Emu- 
lating the  spirit  of  evolution,  the  citizens  had 
turned  the  skating-rink  into  a  theater,  and  a 
very  respectable-looking  establishment  it  made, 
though  in  its  transition  state  the  marks  of 
rollers  did  "  cling  to  it  still."  I  was  taking  a 
cup  of  tea  at  the  table  in  the  hotel  when  I 
was  attracted  to  the  colored  waiter,  who  was 
giving  a  graphic  and  detailed  account  of  this 
legend  of  the  Catskill  Mountains  to  one  of 
the  boarders  who  sat  nearly  opposite  to  me. 

"Yes,  sah,"  he  continued;  "Rip  went  up 
into  de  mountains,  slep'  for  twenty  years,  and 
when  he  come  back  hyar  in  dis  berry  town  his 
own  folks  did  n't  know  him." 

"  Why,"  said  his  listener,  "  you  don't  be- 
lieve the  story  's  true  ?  " 

"  True  ?  Ob  course  it  is.  Why,"  pointing  at 
me,  "  dat  's  de  man." 

The  town  was  filled  with  farmers  and  their 
wives  who  had  come  from  far  and  near  to  see 
the  opening  of  the  new  theater,  and  also,  I 
think  I  may  say,  to  see  for  the  first  time  the 
story  which  Washington  Irving  had  laid  al- 
most at  their  very  doors. 

As  I  drove  to  the  theater  the  rain  came 
down  in  torrents,  the  thunder  rolled  and  the 
lightning  played  around  the  peaks  of  the  dis- 
tant mountains  under  the  very  shadow  of 
which  I  was  to  act  the  play.  It  gave  me  a 
very  strange  sensation.  When  I  got  to  the 
theater  I  could  scarcely  get  in,  the  crowd  was 
so  great  about  the  door — countrymen  trying  to 
get  into  the  ticket  office  instead  of  the  proper 
entrance,  and  anxious  and  incredulous  old 
ladies  endeavoring  to  squeeze  past  the  door- 
keeper but  refusing  to  give  up  their  tickets.  The 
rush  over,  the  play  began.  The  audience  was 
intent  on  the  scene  as  it  progressed  and  seemed 
anxious  not  to  lose  a  word.  During  the 
scene  in  the  last  act  where  Rip  inquires  of  the 
innkeeper,  "  Is  this  the  village  of  Falling 
Water  ?  "  I  altered  the  text  and  substituted  the 
correct  name,  "  Is  this  the  village  of  Cats- 
kill  ? "  The  crowded  house  almost  held  its 
breath.  The  name  of  the  village  seemed  to 
bring  the  scene  home  to  every  man,  woman, 
and  child  that  was  looking  at  it.  From  this 
time  on  the  interest  was  at  its  full  tension. 
Surely  I  had  never  seen  an  audience  so  struck 
with  the  play  before. 

There  was  a  reception  held  at  the  club  after 
the  play,  and  the  worthy  president  in  intro- 
ducing me  to  the  company  was  so  nervous 
that  he  announced  me  as  "  Mr.  Washington 
Irving." 

If  I  dwell  at  length  upon  so  old  a  subject 
as  this  well-worn  drama  it  is  not  only  because 


the  play  and  its  hero  were  important  to  me, 
but  for  the  reason  that  there  are  incidents 
connected  with  its  career  from  which  a  lesson 
may  be  drawn ;  and  while  I  do  not  aspire  to 
be  a  teacher  of  art  or  set  myself  up  as  a  Sir 
Oracle,  or  a  finger-post  to  point  out  the  road 
to  dramatic  success,  I  cannot  resist  the  desire 
I  have  to  give  some  of  my  young  friends  on 
the  stage  a  few  hints  in  relation  to  the  conduct 
of  their  professional  lives  that  may  be  useful 
even  if  they  are  dry  and  uninteresting. 

The  rules  that  would  seem  to  promote  suc- 
cess upon  the  stage  are  so  shifting  and  at  times 
so  inscrutable  that  the  most  diligent  and  ex- 
perienced actors  often  stand  amazed  at  the 
disappointing  results  which  have  attended  hon- 
est and  intelligent  labor.  I  have  known  mem- 
bers of  the  theatrical  profession  who,  though 
possessed  of  great  ability  and  an  untiring  in- 
dustry, have  never  met  with  one  cheering  suc- 
cess, and  I  have  seen  novices  come  upon  the 
stage,  knowing  nothing  of  dramatic  art  and 
possessed  of  no  talent  whatever,  startle  the 
public,  and  command  its  attention  at  once, 
and  all  this  from  the  mere  exhibition  of  youth, 
beauty,  and  confidence.  This  latter  kind  of 
popularity,  however,  is  not  lasting,  nor  does  it 
ever  revive  after  it  has  once  lost  its  power, 
and  here  is  just  the  point  in  question :  an  ephem- 
eral success  is  worse  than  no  success  at  all, 
for  all  the  feverish  flattery  and  hollow  applause 
that  may  have  attended  it  in  the  beginning 
cannot  atone  for  the  disappointment  that  fol- 
lows upon  neglect.  The  once  petted  favorite 
sinks  under  the  desolation  which  comes  from 
public  indifference.  A  legitimate  and  well- 
earned  success  is  almost  perennial,  if  pursued 
by  the  artist  to  the  end  with  the  same  love  of 
his  work  that  characterized  its  beginning. 

"  Rip  Van  Winkle  "  was  not  a  sudden  suc- 
cess. It  did  not  burst  upon  the  public  like  a 
torrent.  Its  flow  was  gradual,  and  its  source 
sprang  from  the  Hartz  Mountains,  an  old 
German  legend,  called  "  Carl  the  Shepherd," 
being  the  name  of  the  original  story.  The  gen- 
ius of  Washington  Irving  transplanted  the  tale 
to  our  own  Catskills.  The  grace  with  which 
he  paints  the  scene,  and,  still  mere,  the  quaint- 
ness  of  the  story,  placed  it  far  above  the  origi- 
nal. Yates,  Flackett,  and  Burke  had  separate 
dramas  written  upon  this  scene  and  acted  the 
hero,  leaving  their  traditions  one  to  the  other. 
I  now  came  forth,  and  saying,  "Give  me 
leave,"  set  to  work,  using  some  of  the  before- 
mentioned  tradition,  mark  you.  Added  to  this, 
Dion  Boucicault  brought  his  dramatic-  skill  to 
bear,  and  by  important  additions  made  a  bet- 
ter play  and  a  more  interesting  character  of  the 
hero  than  had  as  yet  been  readied.  This  adap- 
tation, in  in}'  turn,  I  interpreted  and  enlarged 
upon.    It  is  thus  evident  that  while  1  may  have 


334 


THE   AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


done  much  to  render  the  character  and  the 
play  popular,  it  has  not  been  the  work  of 
one  mind,  but  both  as  to  its  narrative  and  its 
dramatic  form  has  been  often  molded,  and 
by  many  skillful  hands.  So  it  would  seem 
that  those  dramatic  successes  that  "come  like 
shadows,  so  depart,"  and  those  that  are  lasting, 
have  ability  for  their  foundation  and  industry 
for  their  superstructure.  I  speak  now  of  the 
former  and  the  present  condition  of  the  drama. 
What  the  future  may  bring  forth  it  is  difficult 
to  determine.  The  histrionic  kaleidoscope 
revolves  more  rapidly  than  of  yore  and  the 
fantastic  shapes  that  it  exhibits  are  brilliant 
and  confusing ;  but  under  all  circumstances  I 
should  be  loath  to  believe  that  any  condi- 
tions will  render  the  appearance  of  frivolous 
novices  more  potent  than  the  earnest  design 
of  legitimate  professors. 

IN   LOUISIANA. 

The  plantation  I  purchased  in  Louisiana 
was  at  one  time  the  property  of  a  prominent 
Spaniard  named  Carline,  to  whom  it  had 
been  granted  when  the  State  was  under  the 
dominion  of  Spain.  He  had  made  his  selec- 
tion with  considerable  judgment,  as  the  large 
tract  that  had  been  ceded  to  him  contained 
an  island  of  two  hundred  acres,  which  stood 
at  an  elevation  of  about  ninety  feet  above  the 
sea  and  was  covered  with  grand  live-oak  and 
magnolia  trees.  When  it  passed  from  Carline 
it  fell  into  the  hands  of  an  old  Scotchman 
named  Randolph,  who  was,  from  all  accounts, 
as  sagacious  as  the  Spaniard.  He  added  to  the 
beauty  of  the  island  by  planting  it  with  pecan 
and  orange  trees,  which  were  in  full  bearing 
when  I  purchased  the  place. 

It  is  currently  reported  by  the  peasantry  of 
this  section  that  Captain  Lafitte,  who  was  also 
quite  celebrated  under  the  high-sounding  title 
of  "  The  Pirate  of  the  Gulf,"  often  visited  the 
island.  This  hero's  virtues  have  been  extolled 
in  a  romantic  novel,  several  love  songs,  and 
a  bad  nautical  drama ;  and  history  has  in  some 
measure  tried  to  elevate  him  beyond  the  aver- 
age of  mankind  because  he  refused  the  over- 
tures of  General  Pakenham  and  joined  the 
forces  of  General  Jackson  at  the  battle  of  New 
Orleans.  But  the  truth  is,  that  the  captain  had 
plenty  of  money ;  the  British  bribe  possessed  no 
fascinations  for  him,  as  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment had  set  a  price  upon  his  head ;  and 
there  is  consequently  a  slight  suspicion  that 
self-preservation  and  not  patriotism  induced 
him  to  cast  in  his  lot  with  America.  He  was  un- 
doubtedly a  highly  cultivated  bucaneer,  and 
having  with  care  and  industry  amassed  a  large 
fortune  by  robbing  his  fellow-men,  he  retired 
from  business  in  the  prime  of  life  and  secluded 


his  virtues  under  the  shade  of  Mr.  Randolph's 
peaceful  orange  groves.  It  is  said  that  he  be- 
came so  stung  with  remorse  at  the  retrospect 
of  his  piratical  career  that  he  eventually  atoned 
for  his  crimes  by  going  into  the  slave  trade.  It 
is  further  hinted  that  the  gallant  captain  made 
this  place  his  headquarters  in  the  summer. 
The  cares  of  piracy  and  slave  stealing  would 
naturally  in  time  undermine  the  constitution 
of  a  sensitive  nature,  and  it  was  therefore 
necessary  that  during  the  heated  term  —  an 
unpleasant  season  for  the  latter  business  — 
he  should  require  time  for  recuperation  and 
an  opportunity  to  hide  his  treasures.  It  is 
said  that  he  generally  performed  this  cere- 
mony in  the  moonlight  assisted  by  his  gallant 
band,  who  were  sworn  to  secrecy,  and,  being 
men  of  honor,  could  of  course  be  depended 
upon.  It  being  a  foregone  conclusion  that 
this  story  is  true,  it  was  natural  that  I  should 
have  been  warmly  congratulated  when  I  be- 
came the  rightful  owner  of  all  this  ill-gotten 
gold  —  that  is,  if  we  ever  find  it.  I  have  never 
looked  for  it  myself.  In  the  first  place  I  have 
never  had  time,  and  in  the  next  I  really 
am  afraid  that  I  should  not  find  it.  I  wish 
the  rest  of  the  community  were  as  skeptical 
of  its  presence  as  I  am,  for  then  they  would 
stop  disfiguring  the  shore  around  the  lake  and 
digging  holes  under  every  tree  upon  which 
some  mischievous  fellow  has  cut  a  cross. 
Nothing  has  been  discovered  so  far  except  an 
old  long-bladed  knife,  of  a  size  and  shape  quite 
convenient  for  pirating,  and  a  silver  dollar; 
but  as  the  latter  was  coined  in  1829,  it  is  quite 
evident  that  Lafitte  was  buried  first,  so  it  could 
not  have  been  his  property.  These  treasure- 
seekers  have  periodical  attacks  of  this  insan- 
ity, like  the  same  class  of  idiots  who  ruin  the 
clam  business  on  Long  Island  by  digging  up 
the  shore  in  hopes  of  discovering  the  treasures 
of  the  late  lamented  Captain  Kidd. 

The  scenery  and  villages  along  the  Bayou 
Teche  have  for  years  been  famous  for  their 
romantic  beauty,  and  the  fine  islands  —  on  one 
of  which  we  live  —  are  still  a  mystery  to  the  geol- 
ogists who  have  examined  them.  Of  course 
they  all  have  their  theories,  but  I  fancy  that 
they  differ  in  their  opinions.  One  of  these 
beautiful  spots  is  called  Salt  Island,  and  is 
owned  and  occupied  by  the  Averys,  a  charm- 
ing and  hospitable  family,  who  have  lived  there 
for  many  years,  and  who  are  the  owners  of  the 
celebrated  salt  mine  which  the  place  contains. 
It  is  a  weird  and  beautiful  cavern.  Arch  after 
arch  stretches  far  away;  looking  down  the 
dark  and  gloomy  avenues  one  is  amazed  at  the 
inexhaustible  deposit,  and  when  it  is  artificially 
lighted  up  millions  of  crystals  flash  and  sparkle 
with  wondrous  splendor. 

Five  miles  from  this  charming  place  is  our 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


835 


island.  During  the  first  eight  years  of  our  South- 
ern journeys  the  beaten  track  of  commonplace 
travel  ended  at  Brashear,  which  was  then  the 
terminus  of  the  railroad.  Here  we  used  to  get 
on  board  of  a  little  stern-wheel  boat,  so  small 
that  contrasted  with  the  leviathan  Texas 
steamers  anchored  in  the  bay  it  looked  like 
a  toy.  Our  route  lay  westward  up  the  Bayou 
Atchafalaya  to  where  it  met  the  Bayou  Teche. 
This  is  the  point  where  Gabriel  and  Evange- 
line are  separated  in  Longfellow's  poem. 

Our  passage  up  the  Teche  was  extremely 
picturesque.  The  stream  is  narrow,  and  the  live- 
oak  and  cypress  trees  stretch  their  branches 
over  it  till  in  places  they  fairly  meet  and  inter- 
lock. When  the  darkness  came  on  pine  knots 
were  burned  in  the  bow  of  the  boat,  and 
as  she  steamed  up  the  narrow  river  a  strong 
light  fell  on  the  gaunt  trees  that  suddenly 
started  out  of  the  black  night  like  weird 
specters.  The  negro  deck-hands,  some  bare 
to  the  waist  and  others  in  red  and  blue  shirts, 
would  sit  in  lazy  groups  chanting  their  plan- 
tation songs,  keeping  perfect  time  with  the 
beat  of  the  engine.  It  was  delightful  to  light 
a  pipe  and  sit  on  the  deck,  to  look  upon  the 
novel  scene  and  listen  to  these  strange  sounds, 
to  feel  that  the  season  had  closed,  and  to  antici- 
pate three  months  of  perfect  rest  —  no  letters 
to  write,  no  engagement  to  keep,  no  dreadful 
appointments  hanging  over  one's  head ! 

As  I  have  been  living  here  for  the  past 
eighteen  winters  there  is  naturally  among  the 
peasantry,  both  white  and  black,  some  curi- 
osity as  to  the  precise  nature  of  my  vocation. 
The  town  near  us  has  had  no  theater  or  hall 
of  any  kind  until  lately,  so  that  the  only  pub- 
lic amusements  with  which  they  are  familiar 
have  been  confined  to  the  circus. 

The  country  people  know  me  very  well,  and 
it  is  a  mystery  to  them  what  I  can  possibly  do 
in  a  "  show,"  as  they  call  it.  One  day  I  had  been 
out  duck  shooting  and  was  being  paddled  slowly 
along  the  bayou  in  a  canoe  by  my  "  man  Fri- 
day," a  colored  boy  about  eighteen  years  of 
age.  As  a  rider  of  buck-jumping  ponies  he 
was  a  wonder  either  with  or  without  a  saddle, 
and  the  perfect  ease  with  which  he  handled 
a  canoe  made  him  invaluable  as  a  guide.  He 
would  dip  the  paddle  deep  into  the  stream 
and  with  a  firm  and  steady  hand  move  the 
boat  with  great  speed,  and  yet  with  such  skill 
and  so  silently  that  he  made  no  splash  or 
ripple  in  the  water.  I  have  often  sat  with 
my  back  to  him  in  the  quiet  of  a  sunset  even- 
ing and  listened  to  catch  the  slightest  sound ; 
but  no,  though  we  glided  along  the  water  like 
an  arrow,  John's  paddle  was  quiet  as  a  mouse. 
On  the  excursion  referred  to  the  silence  was 
broken  by  John's  voice.  "  Mr.  Joe,  will  you 
be  mad  if  I  ax  you  somfen  ?  "  "  No,  John ; 


what  is  it  ?  "  There  was  a  pause,  then  calling 
up  all  his  courage  he  broke  forth  with  a  ques- 
tion which  I  have  no  doubt  he  had  meditated 
upon  and  could  contain  no  longer.  "  What  does 
you  do  in  a  show  ?  "  I  told  him  that  it  would  be 
rather  difficult  for  me  to  explain  to  him  what  my 
peculiar  line  of  business  was.  "  Well,"  said  John, 
"  does  you  swallow  knives  ?  "  I  told  him  that  I 
had  no  talent  whatever  in  that  way.  "  Well,  your 
son  told  me  that  you  swallowed  knives,  and 
forks,  and  fire,  and  de  Lord  knows  what  all,  and 
I  believe  he  was  just  foolin'  me."  I  agreed  with 
him,  saying  that  he  was  quite  capable  of  it. 
"  Well,  dere  's  one  thing  certain,"  said  John ; 
"  you  don't  act  in  the  circus."  I  asked  him 
how  he  could  be  sure  of  that.  Here  he  burst 
into  an  immoderate  fit  of  laughter,  almost  tip- 
ping the  canoe  over  in  his  violent  mirth.  "  Oh, 
no  —  oh,  no,  sah ;  you  can't  fool  me  on  dat. 
I  've  seen  you  get  on  your  horse;  you  ain't 
no  circus  actor." 

Near  our  plantation  lived  a  famed  Acadian, 
named  Pierre  Landry.  When  he  was  a  boy 
he  had  seen  Lafitte,  and  many  tales  of  this  bold 
bucaneer  were  traditional  in  his  family.  I  had 
heard  much  of  this  old  man;  and,  being  curious 
to  see  him,  set  out  with  the  intention  of  taking 
a  photograph  of  himself  and  his  family,  and  of 
perhaps  getting  some  interesting  matter  relating 
to  Lafitte.  About  three  miles  from  the  entrance 
gate  of  our  plantation  runs  the  Bayou  Petite 
Anse.  Its  low  banks  are  fringed  with  tall,  gaunt 
cypress  trees,  hung  with  tangled  vines  and 
drooping  moss.  It  would  have  had  a  mysteri- 
ous and  even  dismal  look  but  for  the  few 
quaint  little  houses  scattered  throughout  the 
woods.  Some  of  these  are  painted  with  faded 
pink  wash,  others  are  colored  yellow,  with  blue 
and  green  window-shutters,  and  some  are  white, 
giving  the  place  a  more  cheerful  look.  The 
little  salmon-colored  store  and  post-office  is  sit- 
uated near  a  long  and  rambling  bridge,  made 
of  cypress  logs  and  earth  embankments. 

Strung  along  this  crossing  on  a  Sunday  are 
to  be  seen  from  ten  to  a  dozen  negro  women 
and  children  fishing  in  the  bayou.  This  is 
a  holiday  for  them  and  they  are  dressed  in 
their  best  attire — clean  blue  cotton  jean  in 
various  faded  shades,  according  to  the  age  of 
the  material ;  some  in  deep  sun-bonnets,  and 
others,  generally  the  older  branches  of  the 
family,  with  their  heads  done  up  in  gaudy 
colored  bandanas.  Upon  the  western  side  of 
this  bayou  stands  a  picturesque  cottage  with 
a  high  gabled  roof,  and  on  its  wide  porch,  cov- 
ered with  rose  vines  and  honeysuckle,  sat  Pierre 
Landry  and  his  wife  and  daughter. 

The  old  man  could  not  walk,  and  had  been 
wheeled  out  in  his  chair  to  enjoy  the  lovely 
spring  morning.  He  was  a  fine  specimen  of 
an  Acadian  patriarch  ;  his  complexion  was  of 


836 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


a  rich  brown,  and  his  snow-white  hair  floated 
about  his  reverend  brow.  He  had  been  for 
years  the  arbitrator  in  all  questions  of  impor- 
tance among  his  people  —  a  grand  old  peace- 
maker, whose  wisdom  and  justice  settled  the 
petty  and  important  quarrels  of  his  more  ir- 
ritable neighbors  with  unerring  justice;  and 
many  misunderstandings  that  would  have 
lapsed  into  ruinous  lawsuits  were  arranged 
by  him  without  a  murmur  from  either  plain- 
tiffs or  defendants,  so  that  the  attorney  of  the 
village  looked  upon  him  as  a  mortal  foe,  and 
on  one  occasion  threatened  to  sue  him  for 
damages. 

There  was  a  cheerful  aspect  about  the  place : 
the  birds  were  singing,  the  bees  were  buzzing 
amid  the  flowers,  and  the  whirl  of  a  spinning- 
wheel  upon  the  porch,  turned  by  old  Landry's 
daughter,  gave  the  spot  a  home-like  look  that 
told  of  love  and  peace.  As  we  entered  the 
little  garden  gate  Madame  rose  from  her  chair, 
and  with  rustic  French  politeness  invited  us  to 
enter.  "  Entrez,  monsieur,"  she  said,  in  kindly 
tones.  I  told  her  the  intention  of  our  visit :  she 
seemed  pleased,  and  said,  through  our  over- 
seer, that  she  had  been  informed  of  it  and 
was  quite  ready.  She  then  began  arranging 
her  husband,  her  daughter,  and  herself  into 
what  would  have  been,  I  am  afraid,  a  rather 
stiff  family  group.  I  told  her  there  was  no 
hurry,  and  that  I  preferred  she  should  take 
her  former  position,  and  I  would  wait  until 
some  fitting  picture  should  present  itself. 

I  asked  the  driver  to  tell  her  that  my  visit 
was  not  one  of  mere  idle  curiosity,  but  that  I 
had  heard  what  an  interesting  character  her 
husband  was,  and  as  the  house  was  so  quaint 
and  pretty  I  had  taken  a  fancy  to  photograph 
it  and  give  the  picture  to  some  magazine  for 
illustration,  and  that  then  they  would  become 
quite  famous. 

She  laughed  at  this  and  whispered  some- 
thing to  her  husband,  who  looked  at  us  in  a 
dazed  and  bewildered  kind  of  way  as  if  he 
did  not  quite  understand  what  was  going  on. 
She  patted  him  cheerfully  on  the  back  and 
seemed  quite  childlike  in  her  joy  at  the  pros- 
pect of  becoming  historical.  In  chatting  about 
various  matters  I  asked  if  her  husband  were 
ill.  "  Oh,  no,"  said  she ;  "  but  old,  very  old  — 
not  able  to  walk  now."  And  the  tears  came 
into  her  honest  eyes.  Her  daughter  knelt  upon 
the  steps  and  looked  up  into  her  father's  face. 
"  My  darling  husband,"  the  wife  continued ; 
"  we  have  been  married  many  years.  He  has 
been  all  his  life  so  good,  so  brave,  so  noble — my 
own  dear  Pierre."  She  laid  her  hand  upon  his 
shoulder,  and,  half  turning  her  head  from  me, 
looked  down  upon  him  with  as  much  affec- 
tion as  she  could  have  done  upon  her  wed- 
ding-day.  Now  was  the  time.   "  Stay  that  way 


for  a  moment,"  I  said  — and  the  picture  was 
taken. 

She  could  scarcely  believe  it  was  over,  never 
having  seen  the  operation  before,  and  wanted 
to  look  at  the  picture  at  once.  I  told  her 
that  she  must  wait  and  that  I  would  bring  the 
picture  at  some  future  time ;  and  so  we  parted. 
Just  one  year  after  this  my  wife  and  myself, 
driven  by  our  overseer,  stopped  at  the  garden 
gate  in  front  of  this  same  cottage.  How  glad 
I  was  that  I  had  taken  the  picture  and  could 
give  it  into  the  hands  of  Pierre  Landry's 
widow;  for  in  the  mean  time  he  had  been  called 
away  to  plead  his  own  cause  in  another  world, 
and  if  virtue  and  honesty  be  weighed  in  the 
balance  there,  the  chances  are  that  he  has 
been  acquitted.  The  place  looked  much  the 
same,  but  there  was  a  curious  stillness  about 
it  that  seemed  almost  sacred,  or  I  fancied  so. 
The  roses  and  honeysuckles  of  the  year  before 
had  gone,  like  him  whose  hand  had  reared  the 
vine;  but  new  ones  were  in  their  place,  and 
old  Madame  Landry  sat  in  her  husband's  chair 
upon  the  porch.  Coming  down  to  greet  us  with 
some  flowers  in  her  hand  to  give  my  wife — 
for  the  driver  had  told  her  we  were  coming — 
she  was  about  to  hand  them  when  I  gave  her 
the  picture.  The  dear  old  woman  for  a  moment 
seemed  bewildered,  the  freshly  gathered  flowers 
fell  unheeded  at  her  feet,  and,  gently  kissing 
the  likeness  of  her  husband,  she  burst  into 
tears  and  sank  upon  her  knees ;  then  clasping 
the  picture  closely  to  her  bosom,  she  cried  out, 
"  O  my  darling,  my  own,  my  noble  Pierre !  you 
have  come  back  to  me."  My  wife  and  I  looked 
into  each  other's  faces  with  moistened  eyes, 
and,  respecting  her  sacred  sorrow,  stepped 
quietly  into  the  carriage  and  drove  away.  As  I 
glanced  back  I  saw  the  dear  old  woman  had 
risen  from  the  ground  and  was  tottering  towards 
the  gate.  With  one  hand  she  clasped  the  pic- 
ture to  her  heart,  waving  the  other  almost 
wildly  overhead  in  an  ecstasy  of  grief  and  joy. 
As  we  passed  the  corner  of  the  field  the  driver 
pointed  to  a  mound  marked  by  a  simple  cross 
and  covered  with  blooming  roses. 

And  now  I  must  end  my  life,  not  "  with  a 
bare  bodkin,"  but  with  a  harmless  goose  quill ; 
and  however  painful  the  suicide  may  be  to  me 
it  is  a  satisfaction  to  know  that  with  the  same 
blow  I  have  put  an  end  to  the  sufferings  of  my 
readers.  Besides,  an  extended  sojourn  here, 
either  in  a  literary  or  a  personal  state,  may 
after  all  be  of  little  moment.  Seneca  says,  when 
writing  to  his  friend  Lucilius  on  this  matter, 
"  Life  is  like  a  play  upon  the  stage ;  it  signi- 
fies not  how  long  it  lasts,  but  how  well  it  is 
acted.  Die  when  or  where  you  will,  think  only 
on  making  a  good  exit." 

In  Louisiana  the  live-oak  is  the  king  of  the 


WHY  PATRONAGE  IN  OFFICES  IS    UN-AMERICAN 


837 


forest,  and  the  magnolia  is  its  queen ;  and  there 
is  nothing  more  delightful  to  one  who  is  fond  of 
the  country  than  to  sit  under  them  on  a  clear, 
calm  spring  morning  like  this.  The  old  limbs 
twine  themselves  in  fantastic  forms,  the  rich 
yellow  foliage  mantles  the  trees  with  a  sheen  of 
gold,  and  from  beneath  the  leaves  the  gray  moss 
isdraped,  hanging  in  graceful  festoons  and  sway- 
ing slowly  in  the  gentle  air.  I  am  listening  to 
the  merry  chirp  of  the  tuneful  cardinal  as  he 
sparkles  amid  the  green  boughs,  and  to  the  more 
glorious  melody  of  the  mocking-bird.  Now  in 
the  distance  comes  the  solemn  cawing  of  two 
crafty  crows.  They  are  far  apart;  one  sits  on  the 
high  branch  of  a  dead  cypress,  while  his  cau- 
tious mate  is  hidden  away  in  some  secluded  spot : 
they  jabber  to  each  other  as  though  they  held 
a  conference  of  deep  importance ;  he  on  the 
high  limb  gives  a  croak  as  though  he  made  a 
signal  to  his  distant  mate,  and  here  she  comes 
out  of  the  dense  wood  and  lights  quite  near 
him  on  the  cypress  branch :  they  sidle  up  to 
each  other  and  lay  their  wise  old  heads  to- 
gether, now  seeming  to  agree  upon  a  plan  of 
action :  with  one  accord  they  flutter  from  the 
limb  and  slowly  flap  themselves  away. 

I  am  sitting  here  upon  the  fragment  of  a 


broken  wheel ;  the  wood  is  fast  decaying,  and 
the  iron  cogs  are  rusting  in  their  age.  It  is  as 
old  as  I  am,  but  will  last  much  longer.  Most 
likely  it  belonged  to  some  old  mill,  and  has 
been  here  in  idleness  through  many  genera- 
tions of  the  crows;  it  must  have  done  good 
service  in  its  day,  and  if  it  were  a  sentient 
wheel  perhaps  would  feel  the  comfort  in  old 
age  of  having  done  its  duty. 

Over  my  head  the  gray  arms  of  two  live- 
oaks  stretch  their  limbs,  and  looking  down 
into  the  ravine  I  see  the  trees  are  arched  as 
though  they  canopied  the  aisle  of  a  cathedral ; 
and  doubtless  they  stood  here  before  the  builder 
of  the  mill  was  born.  Behind  a  fallen  tree  there 
stands  another,  and  from  where  I  sit  I  plainly 
see  the  initials  of  my  wife's  name,  cut  there 
on  the  trunk  by  me  on  some  romantic  birthday 
many  years  ago.  We  live  here  still,  and  it  is 
legally  recorded  in  the  archives  of  the  parish 
that  this  place  belongs  to  us ;  and  so  it  does, 
just  as  it  did  to  the  man  that  built  the  mill. 
And  yet  we  are  but  tenants.  Let  us  assure  our- 
selves of  this,  and  then  it  will  not  be  so  hard 
to  make  room  for  the  new  administration ;  for 
shortly  the  great  Landlord  will  give  us  notice 
that  our  lease  has  expired. 

loseph  Jefferson. 


WHY    PATRONAGE    IN    OFFICES    IS    UN-AMERICAN. 


IIVIL  Service  Reform  has 
had  a  stormy  existence  of 
twenty-three  years.  It  has 
moved  along  amid  the 
abuse  of  foes  who  have 
sneered  at  its  advocates, 
and  the  loud  praise  of 
friends  who  have  showered 
much  indiscriminate  invective  on  all  its  ene- 
mies, real  and  supposed.  Like  other  causes  at 
bottom  righteous  it  has  marched  forward, 
slowly  and  painfully,  yet  still  forward.  Never- 
theless in  all  the  noise  and  dust  and  shouting 
the  precise  thing  wanted  occasionally  becomes 
dim,  the  line  of  march  is  sometimes  lost,  and 


the  results  reached  are  often  hidden  from  sight. 
Any  one  who  watches  the  course  of  a  reform 
like  this  and  sees  it  struggling  among  confu- 
sions born  of  much  violent  argument  and  talk- 
ing hither  and  thither,  for  and  against,  is 
strongly  tempted  to  cry  out  with  Carlyle  :  "  O 
shrieking  beloved  brother  blockheads  of  man- 
kind !  let  us  close  those  wide  mouths  of  ours ; 
let  us  cease  shrieking  and  begin  considering." 
In  the  language  of  the  shop,  let  us  stop  and 
take  stock,  that  we  may  know  the  real  state  of 
the  case,  what  we  have  got,  what  we  want, 
and  how  we  are  to  get  that  which  is  lacking. 
As  Mr.  Webster  said  on  a  celebrated  occasion, 
after  tossing  on  the  waves  of  debate  it  is  well 


838 


WHY  PATRONAGE  IN  OFFICES  IS    UN-AMERICAN. 


to  take  our  latitude  and  see  how  far  we  have 
been  driven  from  the  true  course.  This  is  es- 
pecially desirable  in  this  instance,  for  no  move- 
ment has  ever  suffered  more  through  needless 
misstatement  at  the  hands  of  both  friends  and 
foes  than  this  effort  to  obtain  better  methods 
of  administration  in  the  public  service.  The 
very  name  itself  is  misleading,  for  the  real  in- 
tent of  the  movement  is  not  to  reform  the  civil 
service,  but  to  change  the  mode  by  which  its 
places  are  filled.  The  purpose  of  civil  service 
reform  is  to  take  the  routine  offices  of  the  Gov- 
ernment which  are  not  political  out  of  politics, 
where  they  ought  never  to  have  been,  and  to 
substitute  for  personal  patronage  in  appoint- 
ments some  system  which  shall  be  impersonal 
and  disinterested.  The  improvement  of  the 
service  itself  is  a  secondary  object,  for  the  civil 
service  of  the  United  States  has  been  as  a  rule 
very  good,  and  a  movement  therefore  which  by 
its  title  demanded  only  a  reform  of  the  service, 
and  which  at  the  outset  was  chiefly  urged  on 
that  ground,  started  on  false  premises.  This 
misfortune  in  naming  is  undoubtedly  the  chief 
reason  that  the  movement  for  so  long  a  time  ap- 
pealed so  little  to  the  American  people,  who  are 
extremely  practical,  and  who  are  inclined  to  re- 
sent anything  which  seems  to  them  merely  a 
fanciful  effort  to  redress  an  unreal  or  trivial 
grievance.  It  is  possible  that  no  better  name 
could  have  been  devised.  It  is  quite  certain 
that  it  will  not  now  be  changed,  and  it  is  also 
certain  that  its  real  meaning  is  coming  to  be 
understood  rightly. 

The  name,  however,  is  the  least  of  the  diffi- 
culties. Both  friend  and  foe  seem  to  have  con- 
spired to  pile  up  confusions  about  the  movement 
in  the  form  of  argument  and  description.  To 
begin  with,  there  seems  to  be  an  absolute  de- 
termination to  misstate  the  case  historically. 
The  especial  advocates  of  the  reform  have, 
as  a  rule,  seen  fit  to  take  an  arbitrary  point 
in  our  history  and  declare  that  there  and 
then  what  they  call  the  spoils  system  was 
born.  This  theory  coincides  pleasantly  with 
the  belief  not  uncommon  in  certain  circles 
that  things  political  are  much  worse  than  they 
used  to  be  once  upon  a  time,  and  that  we 
have  fallen  away  sadly  from  the  high  stand- 
ards of  the  fathers  and  founders  of  the  Re- 
public. These  admirers  of  the  past  apparently 
consider  that  the  only  statesmen  are  dead 
statesmen  and  that  living  public  men  are  mere 
"  politicians  "  —  a  word  which  has  come  to 
be,  like  the  "  spoils  system,"  a  term  of  art.  In 
the  good  old  days — exact  date  not  given — the 
evils  of  modern  public  life,  according  to  this 
doctrine,  did  not  exist.  Everybody  who  held 
office  then  was  good  and  able,  and  was  chosen 
or  appointed  solely  from  merit,  while  selfish 
politicians  and  mercenary  lobbyists  were  un- 


known. In  short,  human  nature  then  was 
something  very  different  from  what  it  is  to- 
day. 

This  is  not  the  place  to  deal  with  this  par- 
ticular humbug,  which  springs  either  from  ig- 
norance or  from  falsification  of  the  facts,  not 
only  of  our  own  history,  but  of  all  history.  All 
that  concerns  us  here  is  its  application  to  the 
civil  service  question.  It  appears  to  have 
passed  into  a  dogma  that  political  patronage 
began  with  Andrew  Jackson,  and  that  the  pro- 
posed reform  is  simply  an  effort  to  bring  the 
civil  service  back  to  the  pure  system  of  the 
early  days  of  the  Republic.  The  exact  truth  is 
very  different.  The  modern  method  of  selecting 
civil  servants  by  examinations  open  to  all  was  as 
unknown  in  the  early  days  of  the  United  States 
as  the  telegraph  or  the  telephone.  When  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  was  formed 
the  only  theory  in  regard  to  appointments  to 
office  was  the  one  then  in  vogue  everywhere,  to 
the  effect  that  they  were  matters  within  the  per- 
sonal gift  of  the  Chief  Executive  or  his  repre- 
sentatives. Acting  on  this  theory  Washington 
appointed  the  officers  of  the  Government 
according  to  his  good  pleasure.  That  he  was 
guided  by  the  highest  and  most  disinterested 
motives,  and  enlightened  by  the  best  informa- 
tion he  could  obtain  in  making  his  selections, 
cannot  be  doubted.  But  it  is  equally  certain 
that  he  distributed  the  offices  solely  as  a  mat- 
ter of  patronage;  that  at  the  start,  with  few 
exceptions,  he  appointed  only  friends  of  the 
Constitution ;  and  that  after  the  development 
of  parties  he  appointed  only  Federalists,  lay- 
ing down  plainly  in  more  than  one  letter  the 
doctrine  that  none  but  those  who  were  friendly 
to  the  Government  ought  to  receive  the  offices. 
John  Adams  pursued  the  same  general  policy, 
and  his  "  midnight  appointments  "  were  as 
marked  an  example  of  partisanship  in  filling 
offices  as  our  history  can  show.  Jefferson, 
after  some  delays  and  a  few  fine  phrases,  dis- 
tributed a  large  percentage  of  the  offices 
among  his  party  adherents.  No  plainer  state- 
ment of  the  spoils  system  was  ever  made  than 
that  laid  down  by  Jefferson  in  the  following 
letter  to  the  New  Haven  remonstrants :  "  If  a 
due  participation  of  office  is  a  matter  of  right, 
how  are  vacancies  to  be  obtained  ?  Those  by 
death  are  few ;  by  resignation,  none.  Can  any 
other  mode  than  that  of  removal  be  proposed  ? 
This  is  a  painful  office,  and  I  meet  it  as  such." 
The  rest  of  the  letter,  too  long  for  quotation, 
is  an  argument  on  this  theme  that  offices  are 
to  be  distributed  according  to  politics,  and 
removals  made  in  order  to  get  them.  As  Mr. 
Adams  says  with  quiet  sarcasm  in  his  "  History 
of  the  United  States,"  Jefferson  did  not  go  so 
"  far  as  to  assert  that  to  the  victors  belong  the 
spoils;  he  contented  himself  with  claiming  that 


WHY  PATRONAGE  IN  OFFICES  IS    UN-AMERICAN. 


839 


to  the  victors  belonged  half  the  spoils."  The 
restriction  was  characteristic  of  the  man,  and 
less  honest  than  Jackson's  bold  and  frank  de- 
termination to  have  everything,  but  the  prin- 
ciple in  both  cases  was  precisely  the  same. 
Moreover  at  this  very  time  in  some  of  the 
States,  notably  in  New  York  and  Pennsylvania, 
political  patronage  in  government  offices  was 
carried  out  with  a  ferocious  thoroughness  un- 
known at  the  present  day. 

In  the  interval  between  Jefferson  and  Jack- 
son political  patronage  subsided.  Madison, 
long  before  his  coming  to  the  Presidency, 
had  declared  himself  against  removals  with- 
out cause,  which  was  the  view  of  the  younger 
Adams  also,  and  probably  of  Monroe  as  well. 
The  real  cause,  however,  of  the  small  num- 
ber of  changes  during  this  period  lay  deeper 
than  the  personal  views  and  characters  of  the 
Presidents.  The  long  continuance  of  one  party 
in  power,  followed  by  the  disappearance  of 
the  Federalists  and  the  merging  of  all  parties  — 
nominally  at  least  —  in  one,  was  the  efficient 
and  obvious  reason  for  the  small  number  of 
changes  under  Madison,  Monroe,  and  Adams. 
The  system,  however,  remained  at  bottom 
entirely  unchanged,  and  when  Jackson  came 
into  power  with  a  new  set  of  followers  and 
a  new  set  of  ideas  he  merely  put  into  active 
operation  a  practice  which  had  slumbered 
for  twenty  years,  but  which  had  been  the 
same  from  the  beginning.  Under  Jackson  the 
distribution  of  the  offices  for  political  pur- 
poses was  extended  and  systematized,  and  the 
theory  upon  which  it  was  done  was  thrown 
by  Marcy  into  the  now  famous  formula,  "  to 
the  victors  belong  the  spoils."  Dating  the 
spoils  system  from  Jackson's  time,  therefore,  is 
dating  it  from  the  declaration  of  the  formula, 
which  has  no  real  connection  with  either  its 
origin  or  its  practice.  Since  Jackson's  day,  as 
the  Government  has  grown,  political  patronage 
has  grown  and  spread  until  it  has  assumed  the 
enormous  proportions  with  which  the  present 
generation  is  familiar„  The  effort  to  do  away 
with  it  by  an  impersonal  and  disinterested 
machinery  of  appointment  is  a  wholly  modern 
idea,  and  is  not  in  any  sense  a  reversion  to  the 
early  practice  of  the  Republic. 

The  historical  view  of  the  ardent  reformer 
that  patronage  in  offices  sprang  full  fledged 
from  the  brain  of  Andrew  Jackson  seems 
purposeless  in  its  inaccuracy  except  so  far  as 
it  fits  in  with  an  a  priori  theory  of  modern 
political  decadence.  This  cannot  be  said  of 
the  historical  view  of  the  enemy  of  the  reform. 
Superficially  more  exact  than  that  of  the  re- 
former, it  is  in  reality  even  falser,  and  at  the 
same  time  it  is  anything  but  purposeless,  for  its 
object  is  to  discredit  the  reform  in  the  eyes  of 
the  people.   The  first  historical  proposition  of 


the  opponent  of  the  reform  is  that  the  patron- 
age system  has  always  existed  in  this  country, 
and  that  the  reformers  seek  to  put  something 
wholly  new  in  its  place.  So  far  the  opponent 
is  perfectly  correct,  and  he  becomes  mislead- 
ing only  when  he  comes  to  his  second  propo- 
sition, which  is  that  patronage  has  not  only 
always  been  the  system  of  dealing  with  the 
offices,  but  that  it  is  the  American  system  of 
civil  service,  and  that  any  other  scheme  is 
open  to  the  fatal  objection  of  being  un-Amer- 
ican. This  second  proposition  is  wildly  false. 
Patronage  in  office  is  no  more  a  peculiarly 
American  institution  than  the  common  law. 
We  brought  the  patronage  system  with  us  from 
the  Old  World,  as  we  brought  many  things, 
good  and  bad.  Some  of  these  importations 
were  in  their  nature  suited  to  us  and  our 
new  conditions,  and  were  therefore  American. 
Others  were  wholly  alien  to  our  theory  and 
practice  in  government,  and  therefore  were 
un-American.  To  the  latter  class  the  patron- 
age system  peculiarly  belongs.  After  the  fall 
of  the  feudal  system  and  the  rise,  establish- 
ment, and  consolidation  of  the  monarchies 
of  Europe  the  doctrine  that  the  king  was 
the  fountain  of  honor  received  a  great  ex- 
tension. It  was  perceived  readily  that  as 
the  king  possessed  the  appointing  power  he 
had  a  vast  opportunity  in  the  public  service 
and  in  the  public  revenue  for  reward  and  pun- 
ishment, for  corruption  and  profit.  In  offices* 
and  sinecures,  in  pensions  and  contracts,  the 
king  could  provide  for  his  bastards  and  his 
favorites,  his  relations  and  his  supporters.  In 
the  monarchies  of  Europe  this  was  what  pat- 
ronage in  offices  meant,  and  it  was  dispensed 
with  a  profligacy  which  sowed  seeds  of  revo- 
lution destined  to  bear  a  terrible  harvest.  In 
England  patronage  took  another  turn,  as  was 
to  have  been  expected  from  her  limited  royal 
power  and  greater  popular  liberty.  English 
statesmen  soon  discovered  that  public  offices 
were  the  best  and  surest  means  to  strengthen 
and  maintain  their  power,  and  that  they 
had  in  them  an  almost  unlimited  fund  for 
bribery.  Sir  Robert  Walpole  developed  this 
system  with  his  wonted  ability  and  made 
it  one  of  the  bulwarks  of  the  unquestioned 
sway  which  he  held  so  long.  For  more  than 
a  century  after  his  time  patronage  prevailed 
everywhere  in  England.  With  a  limited  suf- 
frage, rotten  boroughs,  and  an  aristocratic 
government  it  was  a  most  powerful  engine, 
and  the  personal  and  political  corruption 
which  it  engendered  is  one  of  the  common- 
places of  history.  When  England  had  cast  off 
the  rotten  boroughs  and  had  enlarged  her  suf- 
frage, when  her  government  became  demo- 
cratic instead  of  aristocratic,  the  royal  and 
aristocratic  system  of  patronage  broke  down, 


840 


WHY  PATRONAGE  IN  OFFICES  IS    UN-AMERICAN. 


and  a  system  which  accorded  with  modern 
civilization  took  its  place. 

In  this  country  prior  to  the  Revolution  we 
had  the  patronage  system  of  Sir  Robert  Wal- 
pole,  own  cousin  to  the  foul  and  corrupt 
abuses  of  Louis  XIV.  and  of  the  other  mon- 
archies of  Europe.  When  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  was  formed  the  wise  men 
who  framed  the  Constitution  saw  and  rooted 
out  one  of  the  evils  of  patronage,  although  not 
perhaps  the  worst.  They  perceived  very  clearly 
that  Parliament  was  controlled  and  corrupted 
in  large  measure  by  the  bestowal  of  appointive 
offices  upon  its  members,  and  in  order  to  pre- 
serve the  legislature  of  the  United  States 
from  this  danger  they  put  a  clause  in  the  Con- 
stitution which  made  it  impossible  for  the 
Executive  to  corrupt  Congress  by  the  appoint- 
ment of  its  members  to  office.  This  makes  it 
clear  that  the  framers  of  the  Constitution 
saw  nothing  sacredly  American  in  official 
patronage.  On  the  contrary  they  detected  in 
it  in  one  direction  a  great  peril,  and  in  that 
direction  they  cut  it  up  by  the  roots.  They 
went  no  further,  not  from  any  particular  faith 
in  the  system,  but  because  they  then  knew  no 
other  way  of  rilling  offices  than  by  the  will  and 
pleasure  of  the  appointing  power,  and  because 
the  minor  offices  were  so  few  that  no  man  ex- 
cept an  inspired  prophet  could  have  seen  in 
them  any  danger.  At  all  events  the  system 
•thus  modified  has  endured  unchanged  and 
unassailed  until  within  the  last  twenty  years, 
when  its  rottenness  became  apparent  from  the 
vast  increase  of  offices  and  consequent  growth 
of  patronage. 

The  system  of  patronage  in  offices,  then,  we 
have  always  had,  but  it  is  none  the  less  a  system 
born  of  despotisms  and  aristocracies,  and  it  is 
the  merest  cant  to  call  it  American.  It  is  a 
system  of  favoritism  and  nepotism,  of  political 
influence  and  personal  intrigue.  In  a  word 
it  is  as  un-American  as  anything  could  well 
be,  for  a  system  by  which  Louis  XIV.  and  his 
successors  drained  the  life  blood  of  the  French 
people,  and  by  which  Sir  Robert  Walpole  and 
his  successors  corrupted  the  British  Parliament, 
has  no  proper  place  on  American  soil,  and  is 
utterly  abhorrent  to  the  ideas  upon  which  the 
democratic  government  of  the  United  States 
has  been  founded  and  built  up.  Whatever  may 
be  said  for  or  against  the  substitute  which  is 
now  in  part  established,  it  is  at  least  grounded 
on  the  American  idea  of  a  fair  field  and  no 
favor,  and  this  of  itself  is  sufficient  to  prove  it 
superior  to  a  system  which  is  all  favor  and  no 
field  at  all. 

So  much  for  the  historical  side  of  the  ques- 
tion. Let  us  look  now  for  a  moment  very  briefly 
at  the  arguments  for  and  against  the  reform. 

In  favor  of  the  reform  it  is  urged  that  by  a 


mechanical  system  of  examination  combined 
with  permanency  of  tenure  a  better  quality  of 
service  will  be  secured.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  there  is  force  in  this  argument. 
The  chances  are  that  you  will  get  a  better 
stenographer  if  you  examine  him  on  his  abil- 
ity to  write  short-hand  rather  than  on  his  own 
political  belief  or  that  of  his  friends,  and  the 
same  holds  true  of  all  branches  of  the  Govern- 
ment service.  But  the  improvement  to  be 
obtained  in  this  way  is  neither  great  enough 
nor  sufficiently  obvious  to  make  it  a  control- 
ling motive  in  the  adoption  of  the  reform.  It 
is  a  sound  but  an  altogether  subsidiary  argu- 
ment. 

A  far  stronger  proposition  in  support  of  the 
reform  is,  that  to  stake  on  each  presidential 
election  the  livelihood  of  all  the  thousands  of 
people  who  hold  Government  offices  and  sup- 
port themselves  and  their  families  by  Govern- 
ment work  is  to  subject  our  institutions  every 
four  years  to  a  grave  and  increasing  peril,  and 
to  create  a  class  of  office-holders  and  merce- 
naries constantly  increasing  in  numbers  and 
seeking  with  the  keen  instinct  of  self-preser- 
vation to  control  the  Government.  Such  an 
enormous  stake,  involving  the  fortunes  of  so 
many  people,  bids  fair  to  convert  an  election 
from  a  political  contest  into  a  struggle  for 
existence  on  the  part  of  large  numbers  of  peo- 
ple, and  such  a  struggle  renders  men  desperate 
and  ready  for  desperate  acts.  This  argument 
of  itself  is  enough  to  demonstrate  the  necessity 
of  taking  the  civil  service  out  of  politics,  and 
thus  preventing  the  growth  of  a  large  class  of 
people  who  regard  politics  not  as  a  question 
between  conflicting  political  principles,  but  as  a 
mere  battle  for  life  and  for  money  to  live  upon. 
The  reality  of  this  danger  is  great,  and  gives 
a  force  to  the  argument  which  no  thoughtful 
man  can  question. 

The  last  and  most  immediately  practical  ar- 
gument in  favor  of  the  reform  is  that  patronage 
places  upon  Senators  and  Representatives,  as 
well  as  upon  the  chief  executive  officers,  a  bur- 
den which  they  were  never  intended  to  sustain. 
The  immediate  result  of  this  is  that  public 
interests  are  subordinated  to  the  private  in- 
terests of  the  office-seekers.  Legislation  suffers 
because  those  who  ought  to  legislate  have  their 
time  occupied,  their  attention  distracted,  and 
their  minds  fatigued  by  the  incessant  demands 
of  persons  who  seek  places  under  the  Govern- 
ment. If  the  favorite  theory  of  those  who  op- 
pose the  reform,  that  the  executive  officers  in 
the  various  departments  and  bureaus  are  the 
proper  persons  to  select  their  own  subordinates, 
were  carried  into  operation  there  would  be 
little  need  of  the  reform.  Department  officers 
as  a  rule  desire  to  make  successful  adminis- 
trations and  could  be  trusted  to  select  their 


WHY  PATRONAGE  IN  OFFICES  IS    UN-AMERICAN 


841 


subordinates  wisely;  but  the  fact  is  that  the 
executive  officers  of  the  Government  do  not,  and 
under  the  patronage  system  cannot,  select  their 
own  subordinates  with  a  view  solely  to  good 
administration.  As  a  matter  of  fact  their  sub- 
ordinates are  selected  for  them  by  Senators  and 
Representatives  who  are  entirely  irresponsible 
in  regard  to  matters  of  administration,  and  who 
are  necessarily  governed  more  or  less  by  per- 
sonal and  political  interests  which  have  no 
bearing  on  the  execution  of  the  public  busi- 
ness. It  is  perfectly  true  that  a  business  man 
does  not  select  his  clerks  by  a  hard  and  fast 
competitive  examination  such  as  is  applied 
now  to  a  portion  of  the  Government  offices ; 
but,  on  the  other  hand,  a  business  man  who 
appointed  his  clerks  on  account  of  their  poli- 
tics, or  because  some  politician  recommended 
them,  would  soon  find  his  way  into  bankruptcy. 
The  selection  of  subordinates  in  a  private  busi- 
ness is  made  practically  by  a  competitive  ex- 
amination of  the  severest  kind,  managed  by 
a  watchful  self-interest.  The  men  who  carry 
on  the  Government  and  who  recommend 
appointments  have  not  the  enlightened  self- 
ishness which  business  success  demands  to 
guide  them.  On  the  contrary,  enlightened 
selfishness  in  their  case  makes  personal  ad- 
vancement of  the  first  importance  and  the 
success  of  the  business  a  very  secondary  mat- 
ter. It  is  necessary  therefore  that  we  should  sub- 
stitute for  the  severe  competitive  examinations 
which  are  enforced  by  the  conditions  of  busi- 
ness and  commercial  life  some  mechanical 
system  which  shall  approach  them  as  nearly  as 
possible.  The  selection  of  clerks  by  competi- 
tive examination  is  a  system  which  is  no  doubt 
imperfect,  but  it  is  infinitely  better  than  that 
which  it  replaces.  It  has  the  cardinal  merit 
of  taking  from  the  hands  of  Senators  and  Rep- 
resentatives a  task  for  which  they  are  not  fitted 
and  with  which  they  should  not  be  burdened, 
and  of  making  the  selection  of  subordinate 
officers  disinterested  and  impersonal.  Com- 
petitive examinations  are  not  infallible,  but 
they  are  better  tests  of  fitness  than  the  preju- 
dices, friendships,  and  personal  and  political 
interests  of  men  in  public  life.  The  exercise 
of  patronage,  moreover,  is  a  source  of  weakness 
to  every  party  and  to  every  man  who  touches 
it,  and  it  lowers  the  tone  of  public  life,  to  the 
great  injury  of  legislation  and  the  public  wel- 
fare. Yet  until  it  is  destroyed  by  law  every 
public  man  must  deal  with  it  whether  he  wishes 
to  or  not,  and  if  he  refuses,  his  refusal  is  a  mere 
shirking  of  duty. 

Such  are  the  principal,  and,  as  it  seems  to 
me,  conclusive,  arguments  in  favor  of  maintain- 
ing and  extending  the  reform  of  the  civil  ser- 
vice and  of  the  abolition  of  patronage.  The 
arguments  against  it  are  for  the  most  part 
Vol.  XL. —  iio-iii. 


mere  appeals  to  prejudice.  Such,  for  instance, 
is  the  reiterated  statement  that  civil  service 
reform  is  un-American,  to  which  I  have  al- 
ready referred.  This  is  simply  untrue.  Patron- 
age is  un-American,  and  an  impersonal  system 
which  offers  a  fair  field  and  no  favor  is  as  dis- 
tinctly democratic  and  American  as  anything 
well  can  be.  Another  cry  is  that  civil  service 
reform  is  a  foreign  importation — of  Chinese  ori- 
gin, according  to  some  authorities ;  of  English 
birth,  according  to  others.  Even  were  there 
meaning  or  truth  in  this,  the  answer  would  be 
easy.  There  is  only  one  thing  more  contempt- 
ible than  a  feeble  imitation  of  other  people, 
and  that  is  an  equally  feeble  refusal  to  adopt 
something  intrinsically  good  because  some- 
body else  has  tried  something  like  it  and  found 
it  beneficial.  We  are  hardly  likely  to  aban- 
don gunpowder  or  printing  because  the  Chi- 
nese are  said  to  have  been  the  first  inventors 
of  both.  Still  less  would  it  be  a  mark  of  high 
intelligence  to  revert  to  the  Indian  tongues 
because  the  language  of  the  United  States  is 
that  of  England  also.  Another  objection  of 
the  opponents  of  the  reform,  which  enjoys  the 
lonely  preeminence  of  deserving  to  be  called 
an  argument,  is  that  a  permanent  service  will 
lead  to  a  civil  pension  list.  If  the  one  were 
inseparable  from  the  other  this  would  be  a 
very  grave  objection,  but  a  moment's  reflec- 
tion shows  that  there  is  nothing  in  it.  Men 
and  women  who  enter  the  Government  ser- 
vice are  perfectly  aware  that  there  is  no  re- 
tiring pension  to  be  looked  forward  to,  and  that 
if  they  decide  to  remain  in  the  service 
they  must  trust  to  their  own  exertions  and 
their  own  frugality,  or  to  the  formation  with 
their  associates  of  an  insurance  fund,  to  make 
provision  for  their  old  age,  exactly  as  they 
would  do  if  they  engaged  in  any  private  busi- 
ness. If  they  are  not  willing  to  do  this  the 
remedy  is  very  simple  —  they  need  not  enter 
the  service. 

The  most  common  form  of  attack  on  civil 
service  reform,  however,  is  to  denounce  it  as  a 
sham,  and  by  applying  to  it  various  contempt- 
uous names  to  make  it  ridiculous  and  thus 
drive  it  out  of  existence.  There  is  nothing 
easier  in  the  world  than  to  sneer,  and  it  is  par- 
ticularly easy  to  sneer  at  any  one  who  is  trying 
to  make  things  better.  But  the  sham  in  the 
civil  service  business  does  not  lie  with  those 
who  are  trying  to  make  it  a  practical  working 
system,  but  with  those  who  put  it  in  their  plat- 
forms, who  vote  for  it  in  their  conventions  and 
in  Congress,  and  then  go  about  assailing  it  as 
a  hypocritical  humbug.  It  is  an  inspiring  sight 
to  observe  the  manly  indignation  expressed 
against  civil  service  reform  by  its  opponents 
on  the  ground  that  it  is  a  sham.  To  states- 
men, politicians,  and  men  in  public  life  gen- 


842 


WHY  PATRONAGE   IN  OFFICES  IS    UN-AMERICAN 


erally,  nothing  is  so  repulsive  as  humbug,  for 
it  is  well  known  that  they  never  indulge  in  it 
themselves,  always  voting  and  speech-making 
and  resolving  in  exact  accord  with  the  hard, 
cold  facts  and  never  for  effect.  They  would  not 
object  to  it  so  much,  they  say,  were  it  not  that 
it  is  a  humbug.  It  is  that  feature  which  de- 
presses and  angers  them.  "  The  idea  of  discuss- 
ing how  clerks  shall  be  appointed,"  says  one, 
"  when  there  are  matters  of  real  importance, 
great  questions,  before  us !  What  can  be  more 
contemptible  ?  "  It  does  not  seem  to  occur  to 
them  that  it  really  is  a  mean  thing  to  have  ap- 
pointments to  office  made  grave  political  issues 
in  every  district  and  every  State,  and  that  they 
are  so  because  they  are  kept  in  politics  by 
patronage,  which  civil  service  reform  aims  to 
destroy.  "  Merit  forsooth ! "  says  another. 
"  Clerks  to  be  selected  by  merit !  Bah  !  What 
a  piece  of  pretentious  humbug ! "  etc.  This 
argument  has  the  advantage  of  requiring  no 
intellectual  effort.  Any  one  can  make  it  by 
assuming  a  contemptuous  tone  and  a  sarcastic 
expression. 

At  the  same  time  it  will  be  noted  that  merit 
governs  these  same  people  in  selections  for 
their  own  service.  It  is  only  in  the  service  of 
the  Government  that  they  are  so  liberal  to  the 
unfortunate  and  the  unworthy  and  so  severe 
towards  merit.  Yet  another  inquiry  of  the  same 
type  is  that  which  asks  with  a  sneer  how  men 
are  ever  to  be  encouraged  to  take  part  in  poli- 
tics if  they  are  not  to  share  in  the  rewards. 
It  is  wonderful  that  men  should  be  found  in 
the  light  of  history  to  put  forward  such  a 
staring  absurdity  as  the  proposition  that  in 
this  day  and  generation  you  can  carry  on  par- 
ties and  win  party  victories  by  offices.  Im- 
portant elections  turn  on  issues  that  affect  the 
great  mass  of  the  people,  not  on  the  selfish  in- 
terests of  a  few.  In  some  large  cities  where  a 
great  mass  of  patronage,  municipal,  State,  and 
national,  is  concentrated,  the  caucus  or  the  con- 
vention, and  sometimes  the  election,  is  decided 
by  a  compact  body  of  office-holders,  but  with 
these  exceptions  offices  are  utterly  ineffective. 
On  the  other  hand,  if  patronage  is  of  doubtful 
political  advantage  under  the  most  propitious 
conditions,  its  disadvantages  are  glaring.  To 
a  party  at  large,  as  to  an  individual,  it  is,  as  an 
almost  invariable  rule,  a  source  of  weakness. 
The  distribution  of  patronage  is  simply  a  dis- 
tribution of  factious  quarrels  throughout  a  State 
or  a  district,  and  no  party  and  no  man  in  the 
long  run  ever  benefits  by  it. 

I  believe  that  I  have  now  enumerated  all  the 
objections  brought  forward  against  the  reform. 
It  is  rather  a  pitiful  array,  hardly  to  be  dignified 
by  the  name  of  arguments ;  but  after  a  some- 
what protracted  research  and  much  patient 
listening  I  can  find  nothing  else. 


So  far  as  the  existing  system  of  competitive 
examinations  under  the  civil  service  goes  its 
opponents  are  more  fertile  in  objections,  but 
when  these  criticisms  are  fairly  hunted  down 
they  generally  turn  out  to  be  either  without 
foundation  or  else  extremely  weak.  In  the  first 
place,  admitting  all  the  imperfections  that  are 
charged,  the  opponents  have  nothing  to  offer 
in  place  of  that  which  they  propose  to  destroy, 
and  they  do  not  dare  argue  openly  that  a 
return  to  the  system  of  patronage  would  be  ben- 
eficial. They  are  fond  of  declaring  that  the 
examinations  are  scholastic  and  impracticable, 
but  it  is  never  possible  to  pin  them  down  to 
a  specific  case.  The  commonest  habit  is  to 
mix  up  the  examinations,  those  for  instance  of 
assistant  astronomers  with  those  of  clerks  or  let- 
ter carriers,  and  this  confusion  is  the  closest  ap- 
proach in  my  experience  to  a  demonstration 
that  the  examinations  are  not  practical.  There 
was  at  the  outset  more  force  probably  in  this 
objection,  but  under  the  present  commission 
such  mistakes  as  there  were  in  the  character 
of  the  examinations  have  been  largely  if  not 
entirely  remedied.  Another  point  of  criticism 
relates  to  the  accumulation  of  names  upon  the 
eligible  list,  and  a  great  deal  of  sympathy  is 
poured  out  over  the  poor  people  whose  names 
get  on  the  lists  but  who  have  no  hope  of  be- 
ing certified  for  appointment.  The  crowding 
of  the  eligible  list  could  of  course  be  avoided 
by  simply  raising  the  standard  of  examination, 
but  let  us  try  it  by  the  real  test  of  a  comparison 
with  the  old  system.  Out  of  every  three  eli- 
gibles  on  an  average  only  one  is  appointed. 
Before  the  railway  mail  service  went  under  the 
civil  service  law  in  May,  1889, 1  had  over  sixty 
applicants  for  clerkships  in  that  service.  It 
was  only  possible  for  me  or  for  any  congress- 
man in  my  place  to  secure  appointments  for 
five.  With  few  exceptions,  so  far  as  I  could 
judge  from  my  own  inquiries,  the  applicants 
were  all  fairly  eligible,  and  therefore  it  appears 
that  under  the  patronage  system  in  this  instance 
only  one  name  in  twelve  reached  an  appoint- 
ment, instead  of  one  in  three  as  under  the  re- 
formed system.  A  wider  and  more  conclusive 
example  can  be  found  in  the  diplomatic  and 
consular  service.  There  are  in  that  service, 
assuming  that  all  are  changed,  between  two 
and  three  hundred  places.  As  a  matter  of  fact 
many  are  not  changed,  and  others  are  too 
trifling  to  excite  competition.  Since  the  4th 
of  March,  1889,  there  have  been,  as  I  am 
informed,  5300  applications  for  positions  in 
this  service,  and  these  applications  are  practi- 
cally confined  to  119  places.  In  other  words, 
assuming  that  all  the  119  are  changed,  one 
applicant  in  fifty  gets  a  place.  It  is  not  dif- 
ficult to  imagine  all  the  disappointment  and 
heart-burning,  all  the  weary  waiting  and  sick- 


WHY  PATRONAGE  IN  OFFICES  IS    UN-AMERICAN. 


843 


ness  from  hope  deferred,  caused  by  a  system  as 
monstrous  as  this  which  tempts  and  urges 
fifty  men  to  seek  an  office  with  loss  of  time, 
money,  and  self-respect  only  to  reject  beyond 
recall  forty-nine  of  them.  It  is  easy  also  to 
imagine  the  frightful  waste  of  time  caused  to 
the  department  officers  to  the  detriment  of 
the  public  business.  The  late  Mr.  Walker 
Blaine,  of  the  State  Department,  was  re- 
ported in  an  interview  as  declaring  that  a 
permanent  service  was  imperatively  needed, 
and  such  is,  I  believe,  the  opinion  of  all  good 
judges. 

I  have  no  doubt  that  what  happened  in  my 
own  experience,  as  well  as  in  the  case  of  the 
consular  service,  holds  true  as  a  general  rule, 
and  the  explanation  lies  in  the  fact  that  pat- 
ronage increases  applications  because  it  makes 
it  seem  as  if  it  must  be  easy  to  get  a  place 
when  it  goes  by  favor  and  costs  the  giver  noth- 
ing. The  office-seekers  forget  that  securing  a 
place  depends  not  on  the  method  of  selection, 
but  on  the  number  of  places  in  proportion  to 
the  number  of  applications. 

I  have  tried  to  state  fairly  the  principal  ob- 
jections brought  against  the  system  now  in 
actual  operation.  There  are  no  others  in  my 
opinion  worth  consideration,  and  the  recent 
attack  upon  the  civil  service  commissioners, 
which  was  made  because  they  enforced  the 
law  and  not  because  they  failed  to  do  so,  has 
not  only  signally  vindicated  Commissioners 
Roosevelt  and  Thompson  and  their  policy,  but 
has  shown  in  a  general  way  how  remarkably  well 
the  new  system  is  working.  There  remains  to 
be  considered,  however,  one  point  in  which 
both  friends  and  foes  of  civil  service  reform  are 
equally  guilty,  and  which  has  tended  more 
than  anything  else  to  obscure  the  real  object 
of  the  reform  and  to  retard  its  extension.  This 
is  the  confusion  of  the  patronage  offices  with 
those  under  the  civil  service  law.  With  each 
succeeding  Administration  there  is  a  loud  cry 
raised  that  the  spirit  of  the  reform  is  not  re- 
spected in  regard  to  those  offices  which  are 
confessedly  filled  by  patronage.  To  remove 
without  cause  officers  of  a  fixed  tenure  before 
the  expiration  of  their  term  may  be  described 
as  a  violation  of  the  true  civil  service  princi- 
ple, but  this  is  all  that  can  be  said  with  regard 
to  offices  of  the  patronage  class.  Offices  not 
in  the  classified  service  will  be  emptied  and 
filled  by  any  President,  of  any  party,  for  per- 
sonal or  political  motives,  and  whether  it  is  done 
in  one  year  or  in  four  is  wholly  unimportant. 
If  the  appointing  officer  selects  bad  men  he  is 
justly  censurable ;  but  for  the  mere  fact  of  thus 
emptying  and  filling  offices  he  is  not  censura- 
ble, nor  can  any  man  administer  a  patronage 
system  in  any  other  way.  Civil  service  reform 
is  concerned  with  only  two  things — the  admin- 


istration of  the  civil  service  law,  and  its  exten- 
sion. If  we  go  beyond  this  with  talk  about 
the  "  spirit "  of  reform  and  applying  the  reform 
principle  to  offices  not  within  the  law,  great 
confusion  is  caused  and  an  impression  of  in- 
sincerity is  created,  which  does  and  has  done 
more  to  hinder  the  advance  of  the  genuine  re- 
form than  anything  else.  In  this  connection  it 
may  be  said  that  it  is  much  to  be  wished  that  the 
charge  of  hypocrisy  and  pharisaism  made  by 
the  opponents  of  the  reform  had  no  foundation. 
The  reform  itself  in  intent  and  in  methods  is 
honest,  simple,  and  devoid  of  sham,  but  there 
has  been  a  great  deal  of  insincerity  as  well  as  of 
the  "  better  than  thou  "  tone  among  those  who 
have  assumed  a  particular  guardianship  over 
it.  For  example,  to  pass  over  in  dead  silence 
the  removal  on  political  grounds  of  a  collector 
or  a  postmaster  before  his  time  by  the  President 
of  one  party,  and  then  to  cry  out  and  get  into  a 
white  heat  with  the  President  of  the  opposite 
party  for  doing  the  same  thing,  is  dishonest  hum- 
bug of  the  worst  kind.  This  attitude  has  been 
common  and  has  done  infinite  harm  to  the  re- 
form, because  it  has  made  the  people  confuse 
some  of  the  reformers  with  the  reform  itself, 
and  believe  that  inasmuch  as  the  former  were 
partisan  and  insincere  the  latter  was  a  pretense 
and  a  sham. 

What,  then,  has  actually  been  obtained,  de- 
spite attack  and  confusion,  despite  the  mistakes 
of  friends  and  the  assaults  of  foes  ?  We  have 
to-day  thirty  thousand  of  the  most  important 
and  best  paid  offices  fairly  out  of  politics  and 
under  the  civil  service  law.  The  system  is  so 
firmly  established  that  I  believe  its  repeal  is  no 
longer  among  the  possibilities,  and  the  great 
body  of  the  American  people  are  coming  to 
understand  and  value  it.  In  the  recent  de- 
bate in  the  House  the  attempt  to  cut  off  the 
appropriations  not  only  failed  but  increased 
appropriations  were  carried,  which  was  the 
greatest  victory  for  the  reform  that  could  have 
been  won,  and  the  highest  assurance  of  the 
permanency  of  the  system  that  could  have 
been  obtained.  Public  opinion  too  has  pro- 
gressed enormously,  as  is  shown  by  the  fact 
that  even  the  worst  opponents  eagerly  assert 
that  they  believe  in  real  reform,  but  object  only 
to  this  particular  kind.  All  this  represents  a 
great  advance,  and  is  a  much  greater  achieve- 
ment than  most  people  realize. 

What  remains  to  be  done?  In  the  first 
place,  it  is  necessary  to  demonstrate  to  the  peo- 
ple the  practicability  and  the  fairness  of  the 
reform  methods,  for  therein  rest  its  mainte- 
nance and  extension.  In  the  second  place,  every 
effort  should  be  made  from  year  to  year  to  ob- 
tain appropriations  sufficient  to  enable  the 
commission  to  carry  on  their  work  successfully. 
In  the  third  place,  we  must  seek  the  extension 


844 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


of  the  system  by  executive  act,  which  can 
reach  almost  every  branch  that  it  is  desirable 
to  bring  within  the  law,  and  strive  also  by  some 
practical  scheme  to  take  the  fourth-class  post- 
masters out  of  politics.  It  is  utterly  impossible 
to  apply  to  fourth-class  postmasters,  even  if  it 
were  desirable,  the  system  of  competitive  ex- 
aminations; but  it  is  quite  possible  to  take 
them  out  of  politics,  and  to  that  end  every  ef- 
fort now  should  be  directed,  for  with  the  re- 
moval of  the  fifty-seven  thousand  fourth-class 
post-offices  from  politics  the  old  system  of  pat- 
ronage will  be  practically  at  an  end.   Lastly, 


and  by  way  of  general  suggestion  to  those 
most  ardent  in  the  cause,  in  judging  public 
men  in  this  matter  the  same  standards  should 
be  applied  to  all,  and  patronage  offices  should 
not  be  confused  with  those  of  the  classified 
service.  Do  not  make  haste  to  criticize,  in  the 
hope  of  partisan  gain,  the  manner  in  which 
patronage  is  distributed,  but  make  every  effort 
to  destroy  patronage  by  law ;  for  by  law  alone 
can  the  evil  and  degrading  system  of  political 
patronage  in  the  distribution  of  public  offices 
be  rooted  out  and  an  American  system  of  fair 
play  and  businesslike  methods  put  in  its  place. 

Henry  Cabot  Lodge. 


[BEGUN  IN  THE  NOVEMBER  NUMBER.] 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


BY   AMELIA    E.    BARR, 

Author  of  "Jan  Vedder's  Wife,"  "The  Border  Shepherdess,"  "A  Daughter  of  Fife," 

"  The  Bow  of  Orange  Ribbon,"  etc. 


XX. 

FOR   LOVE'S    SAKE. 
u  For  love's  strength  standeth  in  love's  sacrifice." 

11  From  olden  faith  how  many  a  glorious  deed 
Hath  lit  the  world  !  its  blood-stained  banner  led 
The  martyrs  heavenward  ;  yea,  it  was  the  seed 
Of  knowledge,  whenceourmodern  freedom  spread." 

11  So  will  the  shine 
Of  soul  that  strikes  on  soul  make  fair  and  fine 
This  earthy  tenement.    Thou  shalt  extol 
The  inner,  that  the  outer  lovelier  seem." 

HE  baron  and  Lady  Kelder 
were  sitting  together  in  that 
confidential  silence  which 
is  satisfied  with  the  near-, 
ness  of  the  loved  one. 
Their  thoughts  were  iden- 
tical in  kind,  for  both  were 
reflecting  that  the  follow- 
ing day  would  be  the  fortieth  anniversary  of 
their  marriage. 

In  our  age  life  is  so  exacting  that  old  people 
have  too  often  exhausted  all  poetic  feeling, 
have  become  indifferent,  and  weary  as  travel- 
ers at  nightfall.  But  this  happy  couple  in 
spite  of  years  had  kept  the  dew  of  their  youth. 
They  were  still  easily  moved  and  easily  pleased. 
Their  hearts  blossomed  like  spring  though  near 
the  winter  of  age;  and  their  simple  dignity, 
their  green  intellects,  their  kindness  and  ready 
cheerfulness,  gave  them,  in  spite  of  their  gray 


hairs,  something  of  the  air  and  the  charm  of 
youth. 

The  baron,  found  his  lady  as  beautiful  as 
ever.  Her  figure  was  yet  erect,  her  features 
were  noble,  her  eyes  as  young  as  they  were  at 
twenty ;  so  soft  and  limpid  as  she  sat  this  night 
opposite  him  that  he  fancied  he  could  look 
through  them  into  the  loving  soul  behind.  A 
smile  tender  and  gentle  completed  her  face. 
It  was  not  an  inadvertent  smile;  it  had  come 
naturally  from  the  wife's  last  glance  at  her 
husband.  For  she  had  suddenly  remembered 
the  coming  anniversary,  and  had  with  the 
thought  lifted  her  eyes  to  him. 

"A  man  after  God's  own  heart,"  she  whis- 
pered ;  "  and  't  is  the  greatest  honor  I  have  to 
be  loved  by  him." 

Then  her  face  saddened  slightly ;  she  was  in 
a  little  perplexity.  Always  hitherto  she  had 
been  able  to  give  him  some  trifle  that  he 
wished  for  or  required  as  a  wedding  token. 
In  their  earlier  years  it  had  been  a  handsome 
garment," a  set  of  laces,  a  horse,  or  a  purse; 
and  on  one  memorable  occasion,  just  before 
the  battle  of  Marston  Moor,  the  sword  which 
typified  her  consent  and  sympathy. 

In  later  years  her  tokens  had  usually  taken 
the  form  of  books.  In  the  baron's  corner  the 
oak  shelves  were  full  of  them  —  polyglots  of 
Antwerp  and  Paris,  with  such  colossal  theolo- 
gians as  Augustine,  Jerome,  Aquinas,  Calvin. 
On  a  lower  shelf  the  dumpy  vellums  of  Dutch 
divines,  at  peace  beside  Bishop  Hall,  and  Dr. 
John  Owen,  and  Mr.  Richard  Baxter;  and 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


845 


nearest  of  all  Francis  Bacon  and  Philip  Mas- 
singer,  Selden  and  Izaak  Walton,  with  Quarles, 
Crashaw,  Herbert,  etc. 

This  year  she  had  bought  nothing.  Their 
position  was  so  uncertain  that  money  had  a 
value  touching  things  which  were  invaluable. 
It  might  be  required  for  simple  existence,  for 
comforts  on  which  life  depended ;  she  did  not 
dare  to  spend  a  shilling  lest  it  should  afterwards 
be  sorely  needed.  Yet  she  was  troubled  at  the 
omission.  It  had  made  her  heart  ache  for 
many  days.  And  she  had  ransacked  her  coffers 
and  cabinets  in  the  hope  of  finding  something 
that,  either  for  its  associations  or  its  intrinsic 
value,  might  be  worthy  to  offer.  Nothing  had 
come  of  her  search,  and  to-morrow  morning 
she  could  only  give  him  again  the  love  that 
was  always  new  and  young ;  and  she  did  not 
doubt  but  that  her  empty  hands  would  be  just 
as  welcome  as  they  were  on  the  day  of  her 
bridal.  Still,  still  she  wished  she  had  a  token. 
In  forty  years  it  was  her  first  failure.  Then 
she  remembered  the  wonderfully  blessed  year 
in  which  Nathaniel  was  born.  The  boy,  the 
heir,  had  been  her  bride-day  gift.  So  to-mor- 
row was  also  Nathaniel's  birthday.  She  had 
not  forgotten  it,  but  in  this  connection  it  came 
with  a  fresh  significance.  "  A  good  son,"  she 
thought.  "  A  dear  good  son.  A  worthy  Kel- 
der;  and  I  love  him  with  all  my  heart." 

To  this  thought  Nathaniel  entered.  She 
had  grown  accustomed  to  his  gradual  emaci- 
ation, and  to  the  sadness  in  his  eyes,  for  he 
had  always  a  smile  for  his  parents,  though  one 
that  brightened  his  face  only  for  the  passing 
moment.  He  had  been  to  Kendal  on  impor- 
tant business,  and  he  talked  its  circumstances 
fully  over  before  he  spoke  of  his  meeting  with 
Anastasia  and  John  de  Burg. 

Lady  Kelder  was  intensely  curious  on  this 
subject;  and  when  Nathaniel  described  how 
the  fierce,  strong  man  had  been,  as  it  were, 
shriveled  up  by  fire  and  smitten  blind  by  its 
flash  she  trembled  and  cried  out,  "  Odinel ! 
Odinel!  You  must  —  "  Then  she  ceased,  for 
she  saw  "that  the  baron  had  covered  his  face, 
and  she  knew  that  he  was  praying. 

After  a  few  moments'  silence  Nathaniel 
said,  "  George  Fox  was  speaking  in  Kendal 
to-day." 

"Where?" 

"  He  stood  upon  one  of  the  stone  tables  in 
the  open  fish-market.  You  know  it  is  but  a 
little  space,  and  quite  surrounded  by  shops  and 
houses.  Every  window  was  thrown  open  and 
crowded  with  men  and  women,  and  below  him 
the  upturned  faces  were  solid  as  a  floor. 
Father !  Mother !  I  pray  you  listen  patiently 
to  me.  I  am  this  night  ashamed  of  my  faith, 
and  I  find  it  impossible  to  excuse  the  things  I 
have  heard." 


"  Surely  the  Quakers  are  not  complaining 
again.  Has  not  the  king  been  very  consider- 
ate of  their  claims  ?  " 

"  'T  is  of  the  Quakers  in  New  England  I 
speak.  Let  Puritans  no  more  accuse  the  Jes- 
uits ;  they  have  far  outdone  them  in  cruelty 
and  intolerance  to  men,  women,  and  children." 

"  Nathaniel,  I  wonder  not  as  it  concerns 
women.  Women  preachers  are  a  moral  shock 
to  all  good  Christians." 

"  Tell  us  briefly,  Nathaniel,  what  George 
Fox  said." 

"There  is  no  need  that  I  tell  you  of  the 
scourgings  and  imprisonments,  and  the  doing 
to  death  in  various  ways,  that  have  made  the 
footsteps  of  Quakers  in  New  England  red 
wet-shod  in  their  own  blood.  Governor  Ende- 
cott1  —  " 

"  I  knew  John  Endecott,  Nathaniel,  and  I 
always  thought  him  to  be  a  stout  Dorchester 
man  as  ever  I  had  dealings  with :  a  good 
fighter,  and  such  a  one  as  pleaded  for  free 
schools  twenty  years  ago.  No  drinker,  no 
dicer,  and  as  fond  of  a  garden  and  an  orchard 
as  a  boy  of  his  marbles." 

"  But  now,  father,  he  is  sharpened  and  hard- 
ened by  the  cruel  preachers  at  his  side ;  and 
by  their  counsel  the  gallows  has  been  set  up 
for  the  support  of  religion.  On  it  they  have 
already  hanged — " 

"  Well  then,  Nathaniel,  we  have  heard  of 
the  hanging  of  the  two  men  and  the  woman 
preacher  many  a  time  and  oft,  and  we  have  — 
if  it  please  you — heard  only  the  Quaker  side 
of  the  matter.  'T  is  like  enough  they  pushed 
themselves  presumptuously  where  the  Lord 
sent  them  not ;  vain  and  vulgar  men." 

"  Indeed,  mother,  they  were  neither  vain  nor 
vulgar,  Robinson  being  the  son  of  a  great 
London  merchant,  well  bred  and  well  learned, 
and  Stephenson  a  Yorkshire  farmer  who  heard 
while  at  his  plow  the  '  call '  which  made  him 
instantly  leave  his  wife  and  children  and  home 
and  go  as  the  Lord  sent  him  to  testify  on  the 
gallows  set  up  by  priests  on  Boston  Common. 
As  for  the  woman,  Mary  Dyar,  she  was  a 
comely  and  grave  matron,  with  the  soul  of  an 
evangelist  and  martyr.  But,  as  my  mother 
saith,  't  is  an  old  story,  and  there  is  newer 
matter  to  complain  of.  On  the  14th  of  last 
January  they  hanged  William  Leddra,  a  Corn- 
ishman — " 

"  But  what  for,  Nathaniel  ?  T  is  a  kind  of 
folly  to  say  a  man  is  hanged  and  then  com- 
plain of  it,  for  the  punishment  infers  the  crime." 

"  Not  so.  They  could  find  no  fault  in  him 
save  that  he  preached  Christ  without  their 
license,  and  assured  the  people  that  Christ 
spake  truth  when  he  said,  '  I  will  come  unto 
you,  and  abide  with  you ' ;  not  that  he  would 
1  Spelled  so  at  this  date. 


846 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


send  by  any  priest  or  preacher.  And  there  are 
other  men  left  under  sentence  of  death,  and 
women  whipped  barbarously  through  the 
streets,  and  cruelties  unmentionable  practiced. 
Father !  Mother !  I  must  away  yonder,  even  if 
I  perish  with  my  friends.  I  die  daily  here,  I 
do  indeed." 

"  Your  friends,  the  Prideaux  ?  Are  they  not 
in  the  Dutch  colony  ?  " 

"  Indeed,  I  know  not.  I  had  short  speech 
with  George  Fox,  and  he  said  he  had  cause 
to  think  that  Roger  Prideaux  was  in  Boston ; 
and  if  he  is  there,  and  in  prison,  Olivia  will — " 
He  ceased  speaking.  A  deathly  paleness  over- 
spread his  face,  and  large  tears  rolled  unchecked 
from  under  his  closed  eyelids. 

Lady  Kelder  looked  at  him  in  silence,  and 
then  rose  quietly  from  her  chair  and  left  the 
room.  The  baron  sat  musing,  with  his  eyes 
cast  upon  the  rug  at  his  feet.  Silence,  pregnant 
with  thought  and  feeling, brooded  between  the 
men.    At  last  the  baron  spoke. 

"Nathaniel,  I  wish  youtohavethewomanyou 
love  so  truly.  Go  to  her;  go  to  her  to-morrow  " 

"  My  mother  will  never  consent ;  and  un- 
less she  give  me  some  token  of  kindness  to 
Olivia  I  go  in  vain.  Olivia  will  not  marry 
me  without  your  blessing  and  my  mother's 
welcome.  That  I  know  most  surely.  But  give 
me  your  blessing,  father,  and  I  will  go  and 
see  her  once  more ;  for  my  heart  is  rent  with 
sorrow  and  anxiety,  and  I  say  truly  that  I  am 
dying  day  by  day." 

"  Go,  my  son,  and  my  blessing  with  you. 
And  do  not  fear  concerning  the  estate.  Had 
De  Burg  been  able  to  prejudice  me  therein,  we 
had  felt  his  hand  ere  this,  I  think." 

"  But  if  question  of  this  kind  should  arise 
while  I  am  away  ?  " 

"  I  will  call  upon  Strickland,  and  ask  him 
to  plead  my  cause." 

Nathaniel  looked  the  thanks  he  felt  little  able 
to  speak.  He  was  worn  out  with  physical  fa- 
tigue and  mental  emotion,  and  glad  to  escape 
to  such  oblivion  as  a  sleep  tormented  with 
fears  for  Olivia  brought  him. 

Lady  Kelder  had  gone  away  to  think,  but 
her  bitter  disquiet  did  not  suffer  her  for  some 
time  to  concentrate  her  mind  on  the  subject 
filling  it.  She  called  Jael,  and  found  that  Jael 
had  gone  to  visit  a  sick  child.  She  wandered  to 
the  window,  and  with  her  heart  full  of  the  two 
men  before  the  parlor  fire  she  looked  into  the 
night.  The  trees,  made  thin  by  autumn  winds, 
let  her  vision  sweep  through  them  far  off  to 
the  horizon,  and  a  feeling  of  loneliness  and 
immensity  widened  her  soul.  She  cast  her  eyes 
upward,  and  the  heavens  spoke  to  her  in  their 
speech ;  and  then,  she  knew  not  how,  but  her 
heart  was  softened,  and  she  began  to  weep. 
Few  and  far  between  are  such  moments  of  god- 


like condition,  but  they  do  come,  and  blessed 
are  they  who  have  the  grace  to  salute  them. 

So  as  she  stood  there  in  the  twilight,  silent, 
motionless,  humbly  receptive  to  all  good  in- 
fluences, she  thought  of  her  husband  and  son 
as  she  had  never  before  thought  of  them,  and 
some  heavenly  power  put  an  idea  into  her  soul 
that  threw  all  her  nature  into  tumult.  A  great 
thought,  if  she  were  only  great  enough  to  en- 
tertain it.  She  had  been  longing  for  a  wedding 
token  for  her  dear  lord,  and  it  was  shown  her 
how  to  offer  him  one  most  acceptable.  But 
it  was  a  gift  only  to  be  given  by  an  absolute 
surrender  of  her  closest  self.  Was  she  able  to 
make  so  great  a  sacrifice  ?  As  she  sat  still  in  the 
dim  light,  searching  the  very  depths  of  her  feel- 
ings and  intents,  Jael  entered.  She  lit  the  lights 
and  prepared  her  lady's  night  toilet,  moving 
very  softly  about,  until  Lady  Kelder  said: 

"  Jael,  what  of  the  sick  child  ?  " 

"  Dead,  my  Lady.  Only  the  soul's  leavings 
there  now.  A  bonny  lad,  and  so  like  himself 
to  the  last  moment  that  it  is  hard  indeed  to 
think  of  him  as  changed  at  all." 

"  Poor  mother !  " 

"  Well,  my  Lady,  Mary  Skelton  has  a  big 
family,  seven  lads  and  lasses,  and  the  last  one 
not  a  month  old.  He  '11  get  little  Geff 's  name 
belike,  and  step  into  his  place." 

"  Jael,  you  speak  foolishly.  One  child  can 
never  take  the  place  of  another  child.  Would 
I  give  to  any  other  daughter  the  place  of  my 
lost  Alice  ?  God  forbid !  Ah,  Jael,  the  dead 
loss  and  the  vacant  place  are  better  than  such 
compensation." 

This  loyal  thought  towards  the  dear  dead 
hallowed  and  softened  still  more  her  gentle 
thoughts  of  the  dear  living.  She  fell  asleep 
with  a  troubled  and  tossed  and  anxious  heart, 
but  the  spirit  of  love  brooded  over  the  soul's 
tempest.  When  Lady  Kelder  awoke  in  the 
morning  the  sunshine  was  streaming  through 
the  east  windows,  and  she  opened  her  eyes 
with  a  smile.  Jael,  busy  about  her  lady's  toilet, 
noticed  her  cheerful  alacrity ;  noticed  also  that 
her  usual  morning  fret  was  lost  in  a  silent  pre- 
occupation that  had  nothing  unhappy  about 
it.  But  she  thought  the  mood  well  accounted 
for  by  the  anniversary  it  held  in  memory. 

Now  there  are  some  gracious  souls  who  like 
to  make  the  doing  of  a  kindness  a  sort  of  per- 
sonal festival.  Lady  Kelder  bid  Jael  bring  her 
handsomest  silk  robe,  and  she  watched  its  ar- 
rangement before  her  mirror  with  a  critical 
pleasure.  Deep  ruffles  of  fine  English  point 
shaded  her  yet  beautiful  hands,  and  a  hood  of 
the  same  lace  fell  with  a  picturesque  and  veil- 
like grace  across  her  white  hair.  Jael  settled 
every  fold  of  lace  and  silk  with  a  proud  ap- 
proval ;  and  as  the  love  of  inferiors  is  generally 
grounded  upon  personal  or  social  advantages, 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


847 


she  left  her  mistress  that  morning  exceedingly 
conscious  of  her  superiority  to  all  other  women. 

For  a  few  minutes  Lady  Kelder  stood  mo- 
tionless in  the  center  of  her  room.  The  sun- 
shine fell  all  over  her  noble  face  and  figure, 
her  silk  robe  glistened  in  it,  and  her  hands 
with  the  white  ruffles  above  them  had  a  start- 
ling delicacy  against  its  somber  splendor.  To 
her  still  face  and  dropped  eyelids  it  gave  a 
specially  luminous  character,  for  as  she  stood 
thus  she  was  blind  to  outward  surroundings; 
she  was  searching  with  spiritual  vision  the  very 
depths  of  her  nature. 

She  was  asking  herself:  "  Can  I  do  this  thing 
with  all  my  heart  ?  Can  I  do  it  without  reser- 
vation ?  Can  I  do  it  not  only  at  this  hour, 
but  during  all  the  days  of  my  life  ?  "  Still  as  the 
woman  stood  and  looked  she  was  fighting  a 
great  battle.  "  Can  I  do  it  ?  Can  I  do  it 
cheerfully  ?  Can  I  do  it  all  my  life  ?  "  For 
a-  few  minutes  this  solemn  inquisition  im- 
pressed a  serious  religious  gravity  upon  her 
countenance. 

"  For  my  dear  love's  sake  !  For  my  dear 
son's  sake !  For  my  Lord  Christ's  sake,  I  can 
do  it !  I  can  do  it  with  all  my  heart,  and  for 
all  my  life !  "  She  whispered  the  words  to 
God  and  herself,  and  as  she  did  so  her  face 
grew  bright,  and  she  lifted  clear  open  eyes  to 
the  heaven  which  by  faith  she  apprehended. 

As  this  act  of  self-renunciation  was  accom- 
plished she  heard  the  baron's  voice.  He  was 
in  the  garden  beneath  her  window,  and  with 
a  strange  and  happy  exaltation  she  went  to 
greet  him.  And  as  she  was  a  very  woman,  she 
was  conscious,  even  in  its  higher  atmosphere, 
of  a  certain  pleasure  in  her  rich  apparel  and 
handsome  appearance. 

The  baron  stood  with  his  son  a  little  way 
down  the  main  avenue.  They  were  talking  of 
Nathaniel's  proposed  voyage,  and  the  young 
man  leaned  against  the  straight  bole  of  a  large 
larch  tree.  The  baron  stood  erect,  facing  him, 
and  he  had  a  few  late  flowers  in  his  hand. 
Lady  Kelder  called  their  names  in  a  joyful 
voice,  and,  daintily  lifting  her  silk  skirt  to  avoid 
the  dew  on  the  shrubs,  went  towards  them. 
Both  turned  their  faces,  alight  with  love  and 
admiration,  ceasing  from  speech,  to  watch  her 
approach.  With  a  pleasant  imperiousness  she 
took  the  first  word. 

"  Odinel !  Husband  !  Dearest  heart !  This 
day  I  give  myself  again  to  you.  Nathaniel, 
this  day  I  thank  God  again  for  your  birth  ; 
and  for  my  wedding  token  to  you,  Odinel,  and 
for  my  birth  token  to  you,  Nathaniel,  I  have 
one  true  gift  —  my  heart's  welcome  to  the  girl 
Nathaniel  loves.  She  shall  be  to  you  and  me, 
Odinel,  as  a  dear  daughter ;  and  I  surely  be- 
lieve she  will  be  to  you,  Nathaniel,  a  true  and 
loving  wife." 


It  was  a  supreme  sacrifice  and  a  supreme 
thanksgiving  under  the  drooping  larch 
branches.  A  few  words  sprang  hot  from  each 
heart,  and  Nathaniel  kissed  the  happy  tears 
off  his  mother's  eyelids,  and  Lady  Kelder 
kissed  them  off  her  husband's  and  her  son's. 
Somehow  the  white  late  flowers  were  in  her 
hand,  and  her  hand  was  on  her  husband's  arm, 
and  Nathaniel,  radiant  and  smiling,  was  walk- 
ing at  her  side. 

And  she  was  not  a  woman  to  retract  a  tittle 
of  her  gift.  On  the  contrary,  she  entered  into 
Nathaniel's  plans  with  a  generous  detail.  She 
wrote  a  letter  of  welcome  to  Olivia,  and  stinted 
no  word  of  her  loving  right  as  an  adopted 
daughter  of  her  house.  She  packed  Nathan- 
iel's clothing,  and  gave  him  wise  and  practi- 
cal advice  as  to  his  marriage ;  and  she  sent  a 
swift  messenger  to  Hannah  Mettelane  to  in- 
form her  of  Nathaniel's  intentions,  and  bring 
back  such  letters  as  she  desired  to  send.  And 
when,  on  the  second  morning  afterwards,  Na- 
thaniel left  Kelderby  for  his  long  journey,  she 
bravely  kept  her  cheerful  heart  to  the  last  mo- 
ment, and  sent  him  away  with  her  love  and 
blessing. 

Perhaps  she  had  some  doubtful  and  un- 
happy moments  in  the  solitude  of  her  room, 
but  not  even  Jael  knew  of  them.  For  to  Jael 
she  had  accepted  Olivia  as  her  future  daugh- 
ter with  such  a  complete  ignoring  of  her  for- 
mer dislike  as  forbade  any  allusion  to  it. 

"My  son  goes  to  America  to  bring  home 
Mistress  Prideaux  as  his  wife,"  she  said  with 
a  calm  complaisance.  "  'T  is  a  good  marriage, 
and  a  great  content  to  the  baron  and  myself. 
And  as  't  is  the  first  marriage  in  Kelderby  in 
forty  years,  we  will  bring  home  the  bride  with 
songs  and  garlands  and  a  great  feast.  That 
is  but  right,  1  think."  And  Jael  looked  at  her 
placid  face  and  accepted  the  situation  without 
remark  or  demur.  For  in  its  haughty  reti- 
cence it  said  as  plainly  as  possible :  "  I  have 
changed  my  opinions.  I  choose  to  forget.  I 
choose  to  accept  what  I  once  rejected,  and 
I  will  suffer  no  remarks  on  my  conduct." 

In  the  mean  time  Olivia  was  quite  uncon- 
scious of  the  joy  hastening  to  meet  her.  Her 
mind,  open  and  thoughtful  as  silence,  had  long 
ago  admitted  that  there  never  yet  was  gain 
without  some  loss  in  it.  She  had  not  found 
the  wilderness  free  from  bewildering  human 
mysteries  and  agonies,  and  her  needs  there 
had  often  been  as  close  and  urgent,  and 
heaven  and  help  apparently  as  far  off,  as  ever 
she  had  found  them  in  the  crowded  habita- 
tions of  men.  Life  came  to  her  uncalled  for, 
and  from  every  point;  and  she  was  touched 
and  moved  by  influences  flowing  in,  she  knew 
not  how  or  whence. 

Nothing  had  happened  just  as  Roger  had 


848 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


planned.  His  proposed  settlement  had  been 
broken  up  by  circumstances  no  human  fore- 
sight could  have  prevented,  and  instead  of 
"  settling,"  the  way  had  been  opened  for  travel 
and  preaching  in  a  remarkable  manner.  It  was 
more  than  a  year  after  touching  American  soil 
before  he  had  a  house  of  his  own ;  and  then 
every  room  in  it,  excepting  the  one  built  espe- 
cially for  Olivia,  was  a  "  prophet's  room,"  and 
"  Prideaux's  "  soon  became  known  as  a  resting 
place  and  a  gathering  place  for  all  Friends 
passing  to  and  fro  on  religious  journeys. 

So,  then,  the  solitude  and  quiet  which  Olivia 
had  anticipated  were  not  realized.  The  house 
was  never  empty  of  guests  :  there  were  many 
meetings  and  discussions,  and  people  coming 
and  going ;  and  even  if  she  went  far  into  the 
woods  for  meditation  she  was  not  sure  but 
others  of  like  mind  would  meet  her  there. 

One  morning  early  in  November  this  per- 
petuity of  companionship  fretted  her  calm  soul 
to  the  verge  of  tears.  She  could  not  help  won- 
dering if  there  would  not  be,  among  the  hills 
of  God,  "  coverts  "  where  "  rest  in  the  Lord  " 
could  not  be  broken  in  upon.  She  knew  there 
was  an  inward  peace  which  could  consume 
like  a  fire  all  murmur  of  discontent,  but  she 
could  not  reach  it  while  Anna  Copeland  was 
telling  Rachel  Sanderson  of  her  great  deliv- 
erances, and  Roger  and  three  men  Friends 
were  sitting  together  for  directions. 

Yet  she  blamed  herself  for  her  inability ;  she 
believed  her  weakness  grew  out  of  vain  long- 
ings, and  thoughts  which  were  so  sacredly  per- 
sonal that  she  could  share  them  with  no  earthly 
being.  For  never  had  the  memories  of  the  past 
haunted  her  so  vividly  and  so  persistently. 
She  had  not  been  able  to  listen  to  Anna  Cope- 
land  for  the  sound  of  the  bees  in  the  clover 
fields  round  Mettelane,  and  from  Mettelane 
to  Sandys  and  Kelderby  how  swift  was  the 
soul-flight ! 

It  was  an  exquisite  day,  full  of  that  still  se- 
renity which  precedes  the  advent  of  winter. 
The  sun  was  pale,  the  air  subtle.  The  trees 
had  suffered  their  yearly  enchantment,  and 
now  and  then  they  talked  soughfully  among 
themselves,  in  soft  murmurs,  with  long  silences 
between.  She  sat  down  under  a  large  maple, 
and  at  first  her  gaze  was  full  of  that  total  in- 
difference which  comes  from  sheer  weariness ; 
perhaps  also  from  some  disappointment,  as  if 
she  had  looked  at  her  ideals  too  closely  — 
a  fatal  mistake  in  life. 

She  appeared  a  little  older,  but  still  had  that 
virginal  beauty  of  promise  which  sets  "  the 
budding  rose  above  the  rose  full  blown  "  ;  and 
as  she  sat  musing  under  the  great  vault  of  bare 
branches  it  was  difficult  to  say  what  of  the 
unknown  and  unseen  was  in  her  lonely  sim- 
plicity. 


She  was  thinking  of  Nathaniel ;  recalling  his 
nobility  of  nature,  the  eager  tenderness  of  his 
wooing,  the  sorrowful  atmosphere  in  which 
their  love  had  grown.  Often  she  had  thus 
thought  of  him,  until  the  sense  of  his  presence 
had  been  so  sure  and  so  sweet  that  she  had 
lifted  her  eyes  to  see  if  he  were  not  coming, 
and  listening  intently  had  thought  she  heard 
his  voice  calling  her.  For  the  ear  has  its  own 
memory.  It  watches  for  an  accustomed  sound, 
and  sometimes  imagination  will  not  let  it  be 
disappointed. 

This  morning,  when  the  same  sense  of  near- 
ness made  her  heart  beat  and  her  face  flame 
with  hope,  she  did  not  raise  her  head.  Move- 
ment would  break  the  spell ;  she  would  hold 
it  breathless,  and  save  the  influence  to  the  last 
moment.  But  it  did  not  fade  away;  it  grew 
stronger.  There  was  a  strange  stir  among  the 
fallen  leaves ;  a  familiar  sound  of  quick,  even 
steps ;  a  low,  intense  voice  calling  her ;  some 
one  coming  nearer,  nearer — some  one  different 
from  all  others,  infinitely  dearer  and  closer. 

She  stood  up  and  cast  her  eyes  down  the 
narrow  path.  There  could  be  no  mistake. 
The  tall,  erect  figure,  the  clear,  happy  face, 
searching  the  woods  as  it  came  onward,  were 
the  figure  and  the  face  of  Nathaniel  Kelder. 
She  went  swiftly  to  meet  him.  She  answered 
his  call  with  a  whisper  on  his  lips. 

Nathaniel  could  have  come  at  no  more  fa- 
vorable moment.  Her  heart  had  been  plead- 
ing for  him  longer  than  she  knew ;  for  it  had 
learned  many  things  in  exile  that  she  had  not 
intended  it  to  learn.  Among  these  things  was 
the  conviction  that  God  was  not  more  easily 
found  in  solitude  than  in  the  stress  of  daily 
life;  that  the  soul  makes  her  own  peace  quite 
as  often  in  the  strife  of  cities  as  in  the  loneli- 
ness of  the  woods;  that  in  loving  and  doing 
and  suffering  it  is  possible  to  be  closer  to  the 
Divinity  than  in  simple  meditation. 

These  convictions,  so  easily  stated,  had  been 
arrived  at  only  through  disappointment  and 
sorrow ;  and  they  were  not  explained  to  Na- 
thaniel without  sweet  delays  and  mutual  con- 
fessions and  experiences.  When  they  returned 
to  the  house  Roger  was  sitting  alone  at  his 
door.  He  was  greatly  changed.  The  pious, 
kindly  master  of  Sandys  had  become  an  en- 
thusiast and  evangelist  —  rugged,  muscularr 
sunbrowned ;  and,  though  spotlessly  neat, 
dressed  in  the  plainest  materials.  His  eyes 
kindled  when  he  took  Nathaniel's  hand,  and 
then  he  looked  at  Olivia  with  inexpressible 
love  and  resignation. 

"  Thou  art  come  for  Olivia  ?  " 

"  Yea,  Roger.  Deny  me  no  longer,  I  en- 
treat you." 

"  I  cannot  deny  thee  what  God  hast  given 
thee.    For  the  last  month  I  have  felt  an  evi- 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


849 


dence  that  the  Lord  would  break  my  last  tie. 
Henceforward  I  am  only  his.  He  can  send 
me  through  the  wilderness,  or  to  the  lands  far 
off.  What  news  for  the  Lord's  people  hast 
thou  brought  ?  " 

"  I  have  brought  news  full  of  hope  and  com- 
fort. Edward  Burrough  has  made  all  the  suffer- 
ings of  the  American  Friends  known  to  King 
Charles." 

"  Will  he  care  for  them,  Nathaniel  ?  Nay, 
for  his  heart  is  wholly  set  on  the  pleasures  of 
this  world." 

"  He  cares  for  his  own  authority,  which  the 
Massachusetts  colony  have  held  in  contempt." 

"  In  what  special  ?  " 

"  Some  Friend,  denied  all  show  of  justice  in 
Boston,  appealed  to  the  laws  of  England,  and 
Denison  mockingly  bid  him  do  so,  saying, 
'  This  year  ye  will  go  to  complain  to  the  Par- 
liament, and  the  next  year  they  will  send  to 
see  how  it  is,  and  the  third  year  the  govern- 
ment is  changed.'  And  when  the  king  read 
these  words  he  called  his  courtiers  round  him 
and  with  great  significance  said, '  Lo,  these  are 
my  good  subjects  in  New  England ;  but  I  will 
put  a  stop  to  them.'  " 

"  Ah !  His  own  rights  being  in  question." 

"  Then  Edward  Burrough  spoke  boldly  be- 
fore Charles,  and  showed  him  what  a  vein  of 
innocent  blood  had  been  opened  in  his  domin- 
ions, and  the  king  angrily  cried,  '  I  will  stop 
that  vein.'  '  Then  do  it  speedily,  O  King  ! ' 
answered  Burrough.  '  As  speedily  as  you  will. 
Call  the  secretary,  and  I  will  do  it  now,'  said 
Charles.  And  so  there  and  then  he  wrote  to 
John  Endecott,  and  to  all  and  every  other 
governor  of  plantations  in  New  England,  that 
they  should  cease  to  punish  or  even  judge 
Quakers ;  but  that  if  they  did  alight  worthy 
of  trial,  they  should  be  sent  to  London  for 
judgment." 

"  When  it  pleases  God,  kings  shall  plead 
for  us." 

"  Also  the  king's  message  was  sent  to  Gover- 
nor Endecott  by  the  hand  of  Samuel  Shattuck." 

"  Friend  Samuel  Shattuck !  " 

"  Yea,  the  despised  Quaker,  driven  from  his 
home  by  Boston  priests,  goes  back  as  the  repre- 
sentative of  their  sovereign,  carrying  with  him 
a  crushing  token  of  the  royal  anger.  I  see  not 
how  Endecott  will  endure  it.  My  father  knew 
him  once,  and  thought  well  of  him." 

"  In  some  things  I  also  think  well  of  him. 
He  has  taught  the  little  settlements  the  wisdom 
of  unity,  and  brought  over  many  good  men  by 
his  good  government." 

"  But  he  is  a  bigot,  or  he  had  not  cut  from 
the  flag  the  sign  of  his  salvation." 

"  'T  was,  I  think,  a  deed  of  passion  against 
a  foreign  power  anxious  to  recall  the  charter 
of  New   England  and  establish  episcopacy. 


For  truly,  with  the  carefulness  of  a  crusader, 
he  wears  always  the  sacred  symbol  clearly 
marked  in  the  form  of  his  beard  —  a  perpet- 
ual witness,  Nathaniel.  And  he  is  such  a  man 
as  will  not  bear  opposition,  and  the  priests  set 
him  on  fire  through  his  prejudices." 

"  'T  is  the  great  mystery  of  our  religion,  this 
tyranny  and  brutality  of  the  priesthood." 

"  Nay,  't  is  no  mystery,  Nathaniel.  The  in- 
fluence of  priests  rests  upon  the  idea  that  they 
are  endowed  with  attributes  denied  to  com- 
mon men ;  that  they  only  can  interpret  God's 
word  and  declare  his  will.  But  our  God 
speaks  not  in  riddling  oracles,  and  why  should 
he  want  an  interpreter  between  himself  and  the 
soul  which  came  forth  from  him  ?  Nor  are 
these  priests  in  any  way  better  than  we  be.  No 
extra  sense  is  given  them  for  the  great  place 
they  usurp.  They  have  a  full  tale  of  mortal 
frailties.  They  are  sick  as  other  men  are,  and 
death  comes  to  them  with  no  special  reverence. 
Then  thou  must  see  that  if  men  listen  to  the 
voice  of  God  within  them  the  voice  of  the 
priest  must  fail,  and  the  power  of  the  ministers 
will  be  broken.  They  are  their  own  Diana, 
and  they  would  persecute  Paul,  or  Peter,  or 
Christ  himself,  if  they  preached  anything  by 
which  their  craft  was  in  danger  to  be  set  at 
naught.  Dost  thou  wonder,  then,  that  Friends 
are  hated  by  them  ?  That  John  Wilson, 
priest  in  Boston,  should  scream  out  in  his  pul- 
pit, '  I  would  carry  fire  in  one  hand  and 
fagots  in  the  other,  and  burn  all  the  Quakers 
in  the  world.'  That  John  Higginson,  another 
priest,  should  preach,  '  The  Inner  Light  is  a 
stinking  vapor  from  hell.'  That  John  Rayner, 
a  priest  of  Dover,  should  stand  laughing  for 
joy  to  see  Mary  Tomkins  and  Alice  Ambrose 
flogged  through  the  town  on  a  freezing  day 
for  saying  '  the  Inner  Light  was  none  other 
but  Christ,  who  lighteth  every  man  that  Com- 
eth into  the  world.'  " 

"  Oh  !  I  wonder  men  with  English  blood 
in  them  suffered  such  things  in  their  sight  and 
hearing." 

"  They  did  not.  The  priests  gloried  in  stripes 
and  torture,  but  the  people  cut  the  bleeding 
women  from  the  cart  which  dragged  them, 
and  saved  them  from  an  awful  death.  Priest 
Norton  sneered  and  mocked  at  the  agonies 
of  William  Brend,  but  the  people  of  Boston 
succored  the  victim  of  one  hundred  and  seven- 
teen lashes  as  he  lay  senseless  on  the  floor  of 
his  dark  cell.  Charles  Chauncy,  preaching, 
told  his  congregation  since  '  they  could  not 
have  the  blood  of  the  Southwicks  by  law,  to 
kill  them  like  wolves.'  Oh,  and  much  more  I 
could  add,  Nathaniel;  for  priests  have  ever 
exhausted  human  torments  in  slaying  those 
who  rebelled  against  the  enslavement  of  their 
own  souls." 


85o 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


"  We  are  free  men,  Roger." 

"Not  if  our  noblest  part  is  in  thrall  to  a 
man-made  priesthood.    But  I  can  see  the  day 
surely  coming  when  men,  having  full  liberty 
of  thought  and  speech  and  worship,  shall  rev 
erence  the  names  of  those  despised  Quakers." 

"Yea,  Roger;  and  great  as  are  the  givers 
of  political  freedom,  the  men  who  have  wrestled 
for  us  with  the  powers  of  darkness  for  spirit- 
ual freedom  will  be  the  heroes  who  shall  have 
the  world's  eternal  gratitude." 

"  And  then,  Nathaniel,  truly  these  men  who 
are  now  thought  to  be  nobodies,  who  are  dead 
and  buried,  shall  have  their  lives  searched,  and 
their  memory  shall  be  hallowed  forever." 

He  ceased  suddenly,  with  the  glow  of  this 
anticipated  triumph  lighting  up  his  rugged 
face  and  kindling  his  dreamy,  wistful  eyes  into 
a  flame  of  rapturous  prediction.  Then  there 
was  silence  for  a  few  minutes,  and  Nathaniel 
with  a  heart  full  of  happiness  watched  Olivia 
setting  out  the  service  for  the  midday  meal, 
and  going  in  and  out  about  her  household 
duties  with  the  same  serene  grace  and  dignity 
that  had  made  her  so  charming  as  mistress  of 
Sandys.  Indeed  this  beloved  interest  had  been 
so  present  that  Roger's  passionate  arraignment 
and  prophetic  justification  had  not  touched  Na- 
thaniel as  they  might  have  done.  In  his  own 
happiness  it  was  so  difficult  to  be  sorrowful  for 
the  misery  of  others ;  in  the  joy  of  the  present 
hour  he  did  not  feel  much  the  satisfaction  of 
some  far-off  victory  over  wrong. 

It  cost  him  a  slight  effort  to  say :  "  King 
Charles  has  also  been  kind  to  the  Friends  in 
England.  Many  are  out  of  prison,  and  they 
have  a  sort  of  right  to  speak  for  themselves. 
A  few  days  before  I  left  John  Duttred  met  a 
Friend  in  open  argument  in  Kendal  town 
hall." 

Roger  lifted  his  face  to  Nathaniel's,  and 
there  was  a  fine  pity  on  it  as  he  answered : 

"  With  such  clumsy  tools  as  arguments  and 
logic  men  only  fumble  at  the  lock  of  the  spirit- 
ual world.  I  tell  thee,  Nathaniel,  that  if  thou 
desirest  truth,  seek  it  by  listening  to  the  voice 
of  God  in  thy  soul.  Divine  faith  and  love  come 
not  through  the  reason  or  the  intellect ;  they 
are  a  divine  work  in  the  soul. 

"  '  Who  that  one  moment  hath  the  least  descried 

Him, 
Dimly  and  faintly,  hidden  and  afar, 
Doth  not  despise  all  excellence  beside  Him  ? 
Pleasures  and    powers   that   are  not,    and   that 

are?'" 

"Yea;  if  we  had  all  vision,  Roger." 
"  Vision  in  the  spiritual  world  is  like  vision 
in  the  natural  world  —  of  no  use  unless  there  is 
light.    Be  more  inward  with  thy  God,  Nathan- 
iel. If  thou  canst  commune  with  thy  own  spirit, 


canst  thou  not  also  commune  with  the  Spirit 
of  God  which  is  within  thee  ?  A  poor  man, 
a  poor  man  indeed,  is  he  who  has  not  been 
far  beyond  arguments  and  logic  in  spiritual 
matters." 

"  You  go  deep  and  high,  yet  I  presume  not 
to  limit." 

"  Who  can  limit  the  experiences  of  a  soul 
bared  to  all  the  influences  of  God's  special 
revelations  ?  It  is  impossible  to  say  what  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  will  do  for  those  willing  to 
live  through  him  as  he  lives  through  the 
Father." 

"  As  regards  this  world,  Roger,  nothing  has 
happened  as  you  expected  ?  " 

"  The  plans  I  made  failed,  for  God  had  bet- 
ter ones.  I  thought  to  do  so  and  so,  but  from 
which  things  I  have  been  hindered  and  with- 
holden  by  that  Hand  which  is  my  guide  and 
helper." 

Spiritual  things  had  become  so  much  Roger's 
life  that  it  was  not  until  the  close  of  the  day 
that  he  remembered  certain  worldly  affairs 
would  have  to  be  attended  to  in  regard  to  his 
daughter's  marriage.  "  Thou  wilt  have  to  take 
thy  wife  without  money,  Nathaniel ;  I  have 
spent  much,  and  I  shall  spend  all  in  the 
cause  of  truth.  For  this  reason  God  blessed 
me  in  my  business,  and  when  I  would  have  sat 
down  in  fair  Sandys  he  tore  my  nest  to  pieces 
and  said  unto  me,  *  Go  east  and  west,  and 
preach  a  free  and  everlasting  gospel.' " 

"  I  want  neither  gold  nor  silver.  I  want 
only  Olivia." 

"My  sister  Hannah  is  indeed  rich,  and  in 
the  way  of  probabilities  —  " 

"  We  will  not  speak  of  them." 

"  Thou  wilt  be  a  kind  husband  to  her  ?  " 

"  I  promise  it." 

Roger's  eyes  were  full  of  tears,  and  Olivia 
coming  into  the  room  quickly  noticed  his  emo- 
tion. She  went  to  him,  and,  laying  her  cheek 
against  his  cheek,  said  : 

"  Father,  if  thou  art  sorrowful,  where  then  is 
our  joy  ?  " 

"  Though  I  drop  tears,  think  not  that  I  am 
left  comfortless.  The  same  goodness  that  was 
my  morning  light  is  now  my  evening  song. 
I  have  an  apprehension  of  duty  to  visit  the 
West  Indies.  When  thou  art  gone  away  with 
Nathaniel  I  shall  go  there." 

"  'T  is  a  long  way,  father." 

"  Far  or  near,  every  way  is  the  way  home. 
I  have  often  gone  through  the  wilderness 
hungry  and  thirsty  and  weary  as  to  the  flesh, 
but  so  upheld  by  His  Spirit  that  I  felt  as  if  my 
feet  took  no  hold  on  the  ground." 

Then  he  rose  and  went  out  to  some  Friends 
sitting  in  the  shade  of  a  great  tree,  but  his 
smile  was  a  benediction  as  he  left  the  lovers 
together. 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


851 


XXI. 

KELDERBY    AND    SANDYS. 

"She  surpassed 
All  of  her  own  age  in  beauty  and  mind, 
Therefore   the   noblest  man  of  wide  Troy  married 
her." 

"  After  Sorrow's  night 
Dawned  the  morning  bright ; 
In  dewy  woods  I  heard 
A  golden-throated  bird, 

And  'Love,   love,  love,'  it  sang, 
And  '  Love,  love,  love.'" 

As  Nathaniel  wished  to  return  by  the  same 
ship  that  brought  him  to  America,  it  was 
necessary  to  hasten  the  arrangements  for  his 
marriage  with  Olivia.  But  these  were  of  the 
simplest  description,  for  both  Puritans  and 
Friends  alike  regarded  the  marriage  covenant 
as  one  of  too  solemn  and  significant  a  char- 
acter to  be  consummated  with  laughter  and 
merry-making. 

The  weather  was  singularly  beautiful.  The 
late  Indian  summer  lingered  for  the  lovers' 
joy.  They  spent  hours  together  in  the  still 
forest,  conscious  of  the  serene  sky  above  them 
and  of  the  woody  fragrance  which  their  soft, 
slow  feet  pressed  from  out  the  fallen  leaves, 
as  anew  and  anew  they  told  their  hearts  to 
each  other — in  words  old  as  Paradise,  yet 
young  and  fresh  as  to-day's  poet  sings  them. 

"  I  love  you,  sweet !  How  can  you  ever 
learn  how  much  I  love  you  ?  " 

"  Thee  I  love  even  so,  and  so  I  learn  it." 
"  Sweet,  you  cannot  know  how  fair  you  are." 
"  If  fair  enough  to  earn  thy  love,  so  much 
is  all  my  love's  concern." 

"  My  love  grows  hourly,  sweet." 
"  Mine  too  doth  grow,  yet  love  seemed  full 
so  many  hours  ago." 

u  Ah!  happy  they  to  whom  such  words  as  these 
In  youth  have  served  for  speech  the  whole  day 

long, 
Hour  after  hour  remote  from  the  world's  throng  ; 
Work,  contest,  fame,  all   life's  confederate  pleas, 
What  while  Love  breathed  in  sighs  and  silences, 
Through  two  blent  souls,  one  rapturous  under- 
song." 

But  at  length  the  sweet,  short  interval  was 
over.  The  ship  was  ready  to  sail  with  the 
evening  tide,  and  in  the  morning  about  twenty 
Friends  gathered  at  "  Prideaux's  "  to  witness 
the  troth-plighting.  The  Countess  Mordee  was 
among  them.  On  the  day  previous  she  had 
brought  to  Olivia  a  present  of  some  exquisite 
lace  of  Brussels,  and  remained  to  assist  her  in 
its  arrangement  upon  the  white  lawn  which  was 
to  be  the  wedding  garment. 

So  that  Nathaniel  did  not  take  his  bride 
without  some  of  the  insignia  of  the  wonderful 


event.  Fairies  might  have  woven  the  delicate, 
transpicuous  tissue  of  flowers  of  finest  thread 
which  gave  to  her  simple  robe  the  effect  of 
lace-like  gossamer.  A  veil  of  the  same  illu- 
sive beauty  fell  across  her  bright  brown  hair. 
A  Bible  bound  in  silver  —  also  the  gift  of  the 
motherly  countess  —  was  in  her  hand.  "  Look 
now,  Olivia,"  she  said ;  "  it  was  the  gift  of  a 
very  good  man.  It  was  my  own  wedding  book, 
and  upon  it  I  have  asked  for  thyself  and  thy 
husband  the  marriage  blessing  desired  by  the 
young  Hebrew  bridegroom — '  Mercifully  or- 
dain that  we  may  grow  old  together.' "  And 
tears  of  fond  remembrance  filled  her  eyes:  she 
looked  backward  nearly  fifty  years  to  see  her 
own  bridal,  and  then,  mid- way  life,  the  green 
grave  of  her  companion. 

At  sunset  the  hour  of  parting  came,  but  it 
was  not  a  parting  without  hope.  Roger  had 
such  a  confidence  in  the  love  of  God  that  he 
believed  he  would  sometime  send  him  by  way 
of  England,  and  thus  permit  him  to  see  his 
daughter's  happiness  in  her  own  home  and 
native  land.  A  few  natural  tears  were  shed, 
and  then  Nathaniel  and  Olivia  looked  together 
into  their  future  with  the  gladness  of  those  who 
have  no  self-reproaches. 

In  about  ten  weeks  they  were  in  London, 
and  a  few  hours  after  their  arrival  Nathaniel, 
walking  on  the  Strand,  met  Baron  Strickland 
and  his  bride. 

"  I  count  this  a  fortunate  meeting,"  said  the 
young  noble,  "  for  I  assure  you  it  is  full  time 
you  kissed  the  king's  hand.  If  your  friends 
had  not  been  as  ready  to  make  excuses  as 
your  enemies  were  to  make  complaints,  I 
surely  think  ere  this  the  Kelders  would  have 
lost  Kelderby." 

"  It  is  your  kindness  I  must  honor,  Strick- 
land, and  your  advice  goes  well  with  my  own 
intentions." 

"  I  shall  see  the  king  to-night.  Let  me  ask 
for  an  audience  for  you." 

"  You  will  do  me  a  great  service  if  you  do." 

"  I  will  bring  you  word  to-morrow.  If  his 
Majesty  receives  your  visit  and  accepts  your 
allegiance  it  puts  you  out  of  all  fear." 

The  friendship  intended  by  this  offer  was 
gratefully  accepted,  and  the  following  day 
Strickland  brought  a  favorable  answer.  The 
evening  named,  however,  would  occasion  a 
delay  in  London  of  nearly  two  weeks. 

"  A  fortunate  delay,"  said  Strickland.  "  It 
will  permit  you  to  provide  a  suitable  dress. 
And  let  me  assure  you  that  the  king  is  a  great 
observer  of  such  matters." 

This  was  good  news  to  accompany  the  let- 
ters to  Kelderby  and  Mettelane,  and  the  mes- 
senger was  urged  to  make  all  possible  speed. 
In  both  homes  he  was  expected  and  watched 
for.    Love  is  a  close  calculator,  and  the  pos- 


852 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


sibility  of  his  arrival  had  been  surmised  for 
some  days. 

The  winter  hitherto  had  been  an  open  one, 
but  there  was  every  sign  of  an  approaching 
storm.  With  anxious  hearts  the  baron  and  Lady 
Kelder  watched  it  coming.  The  distant  hills 
were  already  turbaned  with  great  bands  of 
snow ;  the  bleak,  leafless  garden  was  still  and 
sad  under  the  lowering,  threatening  clouds;  the 
dull  sky  was  fast  darkening  down  to  the  edges 
of  the  dull  sea.  The  baron  walked  thoughtfully 
about  the  room ;  Lady  Kelder  had  her  "  Book 
of  Religious  Meditations  "  upon  her  knee,  but 
her  own  meditations  were  far  closer  to  her  sym- 
pathies. Then  came  the  sharp  shower  of  sonor- 
ous hail,  and  after  it  the  soft,  thick  flakes  of  the 
mesmerizing  snow.  While  the  storm  lasted 
day  to  day  must  be  so  like,  so  very  like. 

The  baron  sat  hopelessly  down,  and  with 
Lady  Kelder  began  to  count  again  the  weeks 
of  Nathaniel's  absence,  and  to  persuade  them- 
selves it  was  really  foolish  to  expect  his  arri- 
val for  some  indefinite  time.  While  they  were 
thus  engaged  Jael  entered,  and  with  sup- 
pressed excitement  said : 

"  Here  be  a  gentlemanly  make  of  a  man 
from  London  —  from  the  young  master.  All 
is  well,  my  Lady — well  as  can  be;  nothing 
but  prosperation,  as  I  can  hear  of;  and  God 
bless  us  all." 

"  Bring  him  here  at  once,  Jael.  Why  not  ?  " 

"  My  Lady,  he  is  beat  out,  and  is  having  a 
few  oddments  of  meat  and  bread.  He  left  Ken- 
dal at  strike  of  day,  and  has  had  a  fight  to  get 
in  with  the  storm." 

The  storm  now  meant  little  to  Kelderby. 
Nathaniel  was  in  London  with  his  wife.  Na- 
thaniel was  going  to  court  with  her,  and  in 
that  event  it  was  likely  the  weary  suspense 
they  had  so  long  endured  would  be  over. 
Every  one  was  so  greatly  excited  that  Lady 
Kelder  could  not  avoid  a  little  scornful  criti- 
cism on  the  mood. 

"  I  vow,  they  are  as  set  up  with  the  coming 
of  the  bride  as  if  it  were  her  Majesty;  but, 
God  knows,  it  is  the  feasting  they  look  for 
that  moves  them  so.  Quaker  or  queen  will 
do  for  an  occasion." 

"  Is  feasting  a  necessity,  Joan  ?  " 

"  Let  me  tell  you,  Odinel,  if  we  make  not 
some  show  of  company  our  neighbors  will  say 
the  bride  is  not  to  our  liking.  And  matters 
being  as  they  are,  the  bride  is  very  much  to 
our  liking — as  far  as  the  general  public  are 
concerned." 

"  I  think,  dear,  that  privately  also  we  shall 
soon  enjoy  the  same  opinion." 

"  Odinel,  what  say  you  ?  Shall  we  ask  Mis- 
tress Mettelane  to  meet  her  niece  here  ?  " 

"  It  is  a  kind  thought,  Joan;  't  is  most  like 
you.    There  is  no  holdback  in  your  grace." 


The  praise  was  pleasant  to  her,  and  she 
smiled  with  a  happy  complaisance  as  she 
added,  "  I  have  a  mind  now  to  take,  with 
Olivia,  all  that  belongs  to  her." 

"  Mistress  Mettelane  is  a  good  woman,  and 
well  spoken  of.  She  is  rich  also,  and  it  may 
be—" 

"  If  she  be  rich,  that  is  a  cloak  big  enough 
to  cover  all  her  faults.  But  in  truth,  Odinel, 
I  thought  not  of  her  riches.  I  am  sure  that 
some  will  want  to  talk  to  me  about  Olivia  as 
if  they  disparaged  Nathaniel's  wife,  and  I  shall 
not  let  slip  such  occasions  to  say,  '  Here  is 
also  my  daughter's  aunt,  Mistress  Mettelane, 
and  a  very  dear  friend  of  mine.'  If  all  others 
are  silent,  be  sure  Mistress  Duttred  will  push 
in  Olivia's  Quakerism.  She  will  find  ways  and 
means  to  bring  in  that  discourse,  though  it  be 
by  head  and  shoulders ;  and  it  is  most  like  to 
be  in  a  manner  of  pleasing  me  by  praising 
me.  '  'T  is  a  great  trial  as  ever  any  poor  lady 
had — and  you  have  a  large  charity,'  and  the 
like  words;  and  I  shall  say, '  Mistress  Duttred, 
there  is  greater  charity  in  the  Word  than  you 
and  I  have  yet  found  out,  and  't  was  there  I 
got  the  warrant,  not  only  to  love  my  neighbor, 
but  to  judge  her  not.'  Oh,  I  assure  you, 
Odinel,  that  if  our  friends  will  flout  at  either 
they  shall  be  forced  to  their  ill-nature  without 
a  veil  of  my  finding." 

When  the  storm  was  over  the  proposed  in- 
vitation was  sent  to  Mistress  Mettelane,  and 
the  preparations  for  Nathaniel  and  his  bride 
commenced.  Concerning  them  Lady  Kelder 
was  almost  hypersensitive.  The  finest  wing  in 
the  house  was  chosen  for  their  occupancy,  and 
she  took  a  careful  pleasure  in  making  every- 
thing in  it  fit  her  own  exact  and  rigorous  ideas 
of  what  was  included  in  her  promise  to  accept 
Olivia  as  her  daughter. 

Yet  alone  she  had  moments  of  bitterest  sor- 
row, and  she  did  not  look  forward  to  the  con- 
summation of  her  personal  sacrifice  without 
many  mournful  reflections. 

"  I  shall  never  feel  the  same  again.  Kel- 
derby will  never  be  .  the  same  :  a  strange 
woman  going  about  the  house — always  there, 
morning,  noon,  and  night ;  how  can  I  bear 
it?  I  have  been  chief  and  only  here;  now  I 
shall  have  to  endure  the  homage  given  to  this 
superexcelling  creature.  I  shall  even  be  obliged 
to  add  my  pinch  of  incense  to  the  general  ob- 
lation burnt  in  her  honor.  'T  is  a  hard  case 
indeed  to  have  to  change  all  when  life  is  so 
near  its  close.  Well,  then,  it  is  perhaps  the 
loosing  of  the  link  which  is  to  scatter  the  whole 
chain.  God  help  me !  He  only  knows  how 
much  easier  it  is  to  make  a  fine  resolution  than 
to  work  it  out  hour  by  hour,  and  day  by  day." 

There  were  a  few  tears  in  her  eyes  —  the 
tears  of  age  are  cold  and  few.    Once  her  heart- 


FRIEND   OLIVIA. 


853 


ache  would  have  been  washed  away  in  a  warm 
and  plenteous  rain,  leaving  life  calm  and  clear- 
skyed  after  it.  Now  such  clarifying  storms  were 
almost  impossible  to  her. 

She  was  taking  from  her  dower  chests  scented 
linen  and  fine  tapestry  hangings,  and  the  act 
was  a  tangible  translation  of  the  sacredness 
of  her  promise.  Was  it  made  less  precious  by 
the  heavy  solitary  drops  that  sealed  its  hon- 
esty of  purpose  ?  Alas,  no  !  the  sorrows  of  the 
aged  must  count  for  double.  Their  sense  of 
loss  looks  for  no  redemption  from  the  morrow. 

The  baron  never  guessed  how  hard  a  dis- 
cipline his  wife  was  bearing,  or  he  would  have 
made  it  lighter  by  a  constant  loving  sympa- 
thy; and  the  household  mainly  believed  her 
to  be  thoroughly  enjoying  the  coming  change. 
Jael,  however,  knew  precisely  how  her  lady 
carried  the  cup  she  had  to  drink.  For  to  Jael 
Lady  Kelder  made  few  pretenses  of  any  kind ; 
and  having  once  signified  her  resolution  to 
receive  Nathaniel's  wife  publicly  with  honor- 
able welcome,  she  permitted  herself  privately 
that  sincerity  of  speech  which  she  knew  Jael 
would  respect. 

It  was  some  gratification  also  to  point  out 
her  self-denial;  even  Jael's  approval  was  pleas- 
ant. It  was  indeed  the  only  human  approval 
she  could  expect,  and  there  are  few  hearts 
whom  the  divinity  quite  satisfies. 

"If  my  son  were  bringing  me  a  daughter 
worthy  of  my  utmost  honor  could  I  do  more, 
Jael?  I  intend  Nathaniel's  wife  to  have  all 
her  due,  Jael." 

"  My  Lady,  you  have  been  generous  be- 
yond all;  the  best  room,  the  newest  furni- 
ture, a  maid  hired  for  my  young  lady's  own 
use.  If  you  could  only  give  her  a  little  love  —  " 

"  Love  is  not  bought  in  the  market  place, 
Jael.  I  try  to  be  considerate.  Is  not  Mis- 
tress Mettelane  asked  to  meet  her  niece  ?  At 
any  hour  now  I  may  have  to  entertain  her ; 
and  she  is  quite  my  inferior,  and  a  church- 
woman  as  well.  I  know  little  about  church- 
women." 

"  They  aim  to  be  about  right,  I  should  say, 
my  Lady.  And  as  we  begin  to  age  we  can 
give  our  hearts  a  bit  of  favor,  and  leave  the 
young  ones  to  see  that  things  are  kept  straight. 
Mrs.  Mettelane  wrote  you  a  very  proper  let- 
ter. I  never  heard  tell  of  a  properer  one.  I 
could  not  help  thinking  that  it  was  well  such 
a  good  one  had  had  the  bringing  up  of  Mas- 
ter Nathaniel's  wife.  She  's  well  come  of,  I  '11 
warrant." 

"  She  is  a  statesman's  l  daughter,  and  some 
of  these  statesmen  have  coats  of  arms  older 
than  a  crusader.  I  don't  know  about  the  Met- 
telanes." 

"We  may  as  well  hope  they  are  pretty  old. 
1  A  landowner. 


But  this  or  that,  she  has  plenty  of  the  c  where- 
with,' and  it  is  little  matter,  my  Lady,  whether 
gold  be  old  or  freshly  minted." 

"  If  the  girl  were  not  a  Quakeress." 

"  My  Lady,  a  rose  is  a  rose  wherever  it 
grows." 

"  But  differences  in  roses,  Jael — hedge  roses 
and  garden  roses.  You  cannot  pin  a  woman 
with  a  proverb.  And  if  you  don't  want  roses  of 
any  kind,  what  then,  Jael  ?  I  have  shed  more 
tears  lately  than  I  thought  ever  to  shed  again." 

"If  your  heart  is  full,  weep,  my  Lady ;  't  is 
the  unshed  tears  that  are  never  wiped  away." 

Such  conversations  had  their  use,  for  to  do 
kind  deeds  and  then  take  in  private  a  little 
grumble  about  their  necessity  is  the  condition 
making  much  public  virtue  possible.  And  many 
a  trouble  comes  with  a  blessing  in  its  hand. 
When  Hannah  Mettelane  arrived  the  hospita- 
ble instincts  of  Lady  Kelder  led  her  to  give 
a  welcome  whose  kindness  left  nothing  to  de- 
sire, and  every  moment  afterwards  the  two 
women  drew  closer  together. 

.  On  the  third  evening  of  her  visit  they  were 
going  together  through  the  rooms  which  had 
been  put  in  such  beautiful  order  for  the  com- 
ing bride.  Hannah  Mettelane  walked  between 
the  baron  and  Lady  Kelder,  and  having  ad- 
mired and  suggested  until  the  subject  was  ex- 
hausted, they  sat  down  before  the  blazing  fire 
which  was  already  brightening  Nathaniel's 
private  parlor. 

Hannah  had  become  very  quiet.  Her  heart 
was  busy,  and  her  large,  intelligent  eyes  moved 
with  a  slow  speculation  between  her  compan- 
ions. 

"  You  have  made  a  home  beyond  every- 
thing for  the  children,"  she  said,  "  and  I  know 
about  what  it  costs.  I  mean  in  love,  and  in 
other  feelings,  mayhap  still  more  unselfish.  I 
could  n't  have  done  it.  I  like  my  house  to 
myself,  and  I  had  my  little  plan  about  the 
children.    You  see,  I  thought  of  Sandys." 

"  Sandys  !  "  said  the  baron.  "  I  thought 
your  brother  sold  Sandys." 

"  He  sold  it  to  me.  I  thought  it  a  pity  to 
let  such  a  fine  bit  of  land  go  out  of  the  family. 
Indeed,  after  Cromwell's  death  it  would  have 
been  hard  for  Roger  to  get  any  one  to  look 
at  the  title  he  could  give,  and  many  thought 
in  the  general  turn-up  at  the  king's  home- 
coming the  heir-at-law  would  be  found." 

"  I  think  myself  it  was  a  great  risk  to  take." 

"  But,  counting  all  these  risks,  I  got  Sandys 
for  a  little  price;  though  't  was  money  enough 
for  the  unlikely  things  driving  my  brother  to 
strange  lands.  Then  by  using  such  friends  as 
I  had  claim  upon  I  made  haste  to  certify  my 
right,  and  looking  forward  always  to  the  mar- 
riage of  my  niece  with  your  son,  I  have  kept 
the  place  in  such  order  as  its  worth  asked  for." 


«54 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


"  Indeed,  such  order  as  constantly  raised 
the  wonder  of  all." 

"  So  you  see  "  —  and  she  spoke  slowly,  with 
her  eyes  dropped,  and  a  happy  smile  lighting 
her  large,  calm  face — "  it  is  ready  for  its  own- 
ers. For  if  Olivia  married  the  heir  of  Kelderby, 
Nathaniel  Kelder  married  the  mistress  of 
Sandys.  A  week  ago  I  made  it  over,  house 
and  land,  silver  and  furnishings  of  every  kind, 
to  Olivia  Kelder ;  and  may  God  bless  the  house 
forever ! " 

"  Mistress  Mettelane,  this  is  indeed  great 
news,"  said  the  baron,  "  and  we  cannot  but 
take  it  well  of  you.  'T  is  a  noble  home,  in- 
deed it  is." 

"  And,  as  I  thought,  near  to  Kelder,  and 
not  far  away  from  Mettelane.  In  my  home, 
also,  there  shall  be  rooms  made  ready  for  the 
children's  visit ;  but  I  know  right  surely  that 
age  dwells  not  happily  with  youth,  and  that 
youth  soon  grows  sad  with  age." 

"  Think  you  so  ?  " 

"  In  truth  I  do.  Age  is  the  chapel  of  life. 
When  we  sit  down  in  its  quiet  the  busy  cares 
and  pleasures  of  youth  come  into  it  like  an  of- 
fense. I  know  it  is  well  for  all  that  Nathaniel 
and  Olivia  should  have  their  own  home.  I 
hope  that  it  may  be  Sandys." 

"They  could  have  no  fairer  or  finer  one," 
said  Lady  Kelder,  softly.  Her  eyes  were  full 
of  tears,  and  she  drew  her  chair  nearer  to 
Hannah's  and  took  her  large,  capable  hand 
within  the  clasp  of  her  own  small  ones.  A 
kind  intelligence  that  needed  no  speech  passed 
from  face  to  face,  From  that  moment  they 
were  true  friends. 

"  The  silver  and  linen,  the  crystal  and  the 
fine  pewter  service,  with  the  curious  ornaments, 
I  have  had  at  Mettelane.  They  left  Ambleside 
in  Stephen  Airey's .  wagon,  and  must  now  be 
at  Sandys.  If  you,  my  Lady,  will  go  over  there 
with  me,  we  can  see  to  their  unpacking  and 
safe  bestowal.  I  should  n't  wonder  if  all  the 
old  servants  are  already  there.  The  women 
have  worked  on  D'Acre's  land,  one  way  or  an- 
other, since  Sandys  shut ;  and  I  called  on  Jane 
D'Acre  as  I  passed,  and  she  was  crying  happy 
at  my  news,  and  D'Acre  said  Olivia's  old 
women  should  all  be  loosed  from  his  claim 
and  go  back  to  Sandys.  The  D'Acres  will 
be  good  friends,  I  trow." 

"  If  they  get  not  cool,  or  hot,  on  their  re- 
ligion," said  Lady  Kelder,  scornfully.  "  As 
for  me,  I  think  D'Acre  a  fair-weather  friend." 

"  I  heard  that  he  stood  not  trial.  But,  dear 
me  !  we  must  n't  ask  friends  to  think  as  we  do. 
'T  is  too  much,  and  beyond  all.  If  souls  were  all 
made  on  one  pattern,  then  possible,  perhaps ; 
but,  God  knows,  souls  differ  as  much  as  faces 
—  not  two  alike.  What  then,  Baron  ?  " 

"  Charity,  Mrs.  Mettelane.      If  we  could 


only  love  each  other  half  as  well  as  God  loves 
us  all." 

"  Not  being  God,  we  could  n't  do  it,  Baron," 
said  Lady  Kelder;  "and  God  knows  that 
there  are  some  people  God  himself  could  n't 
love  —  no,  not  even  for  Christ's  sake.  Let  us 
not  talk  of  them.  'T  is  better  to  go  to  bed  and 
sleep  on  the  good  fortune  Mistress  Mettelane 
has  brought  us ;  for,  if  she  will,  we  shall  take 
the  road  for  Sandys  very  early  in  the  morning." 

Her  face  shone  with  pleasure  and  kindness 
as  she  rose,  and  in  the  noble,  smiling  inclina- 
tion of  her  head  to  Hannah  Mettelane  she 
expressed  a  grateful  happiness  that  delighted 
the  simple,  truthful  woman.  And  that  night 
Lady  Kelder  was  conscious  of  a  gratitude  that 
humbled  and  silenced  her.  Had  she  not  been 
grudging  Olivia  a  few  rooms  in  Kelderby,  and 
lo  !  the  stately  home  of  Sandys  was  waiting' for 
her  ?  Had  she  not  been  fretting  at  the  intro- 
duction of  a  new  element  into  her  life,  when 
too  old  to  desire  it,  and  there  had  never  been 
any  foundation  for  the  fear  except  in  her  own 
heart  ? 

"  It  was  not  necessary  to  God's  goodness," 
she  said  sadly.  "  Wanting  to  bless  Nathaniel 
and  Olivia,  he  has  done  it  without  my  help." 
Tears  filled  her  eyes,  and  she  murmured : 
"  I  tried  hard,  indeed  I  did  !  If  God  had  only 
understood  —  "  The  baron  entered  at  the  mo- 
ment, and  she  voiced  her  heartache  to  him. 

"  Indeed,  dear  heart,  I  think  God  did  un- 
derstand. He  saw  you  wished  to  be  unselfish, 
and  he  said :  '  It  is  enough.  That  will  do.' 
Think  you  he  did  not  understand  how  pre- 
cious the  quiet  of  Kelderby  was  to  both  of  us  ? 
Joan,  our  God  is  such  a  one  as  cares  for  our 
little  likings,  and  is  heedful  of  our  daily  hap- 
piness." 

"  How  provoking  kings  are !  Charles  might 
have  seen  Nathaniel  on  the  asking.  Then  he 
would  have  been  home  ere  this." 

"  Never  hurry  your  happiness,  Joan.  And  I 
think  it  was  not  the  king's  fault,  but  Strick- 
land's kindness.  Doubtless  he  thought  of  such 
an  important  matter  as  court  dresses,  and  in 
that  respect  sought  time  for  the  children." 

The  delay  in  London,  however,  had  not  been 
a  profitless  or  unpleasant  one  to  Nathaniel  and 
Olivia.  During  it  their  friendship  with  the 
Stricklands  had  been  placed  upon  a  lasting 
basis ;  for  each  had  discovered  many  personal 
sympathies  besides  such  as  sprung  from  the 
similarity  of  their  domestic  and  social  condi- 
tion and  their  identity  of  interests  as  future 
neighbors. 

At  length,  the  evening  appointed  for  their 
interview  with  the  king  arrived,  and  they  went 
together  to  Whitehall,  making  a  sufficiently 
remarkable  group  both  individually  and  by 
way  of  contrast.    Marmaduke  Strickland,  rep- 


FRIEND   OLIVIA. 


855 


resenting  one  of  the  oldest  families  in  Eng- 
land, and  a  passionate  royalist  in  sentiment, 
was  arrayed  in  all  the  splendor  of  the  Stuart 
fashions.  But  so  lofty  was  his  stature  and  so 
imposing  his  manner,  that  he  carried  with  a 
certain  fitness  of  courtly  manhood  the  long, 
flowing  curls  and  flaunting  finery  of  his  order. 
His  beautiful  young  wife  wore  her  bride-dress 
of  gold  brocade,  and  its  jeweled  bodice  and 
long  train  were  but  the  suitable  accompani- 
ments of  the  gems  which  glittered  in  her  hair, 
and  lay  on  her  bosom,  and  clasped  her  bare 
arms. 

Behind  so  noticeable  a  couple  Nathaniel 
and  Olivia  were  still  more  noticeable.  For  Na- 
thaniel's suit  of  Genoa  velvet  and  Genoa  point 
was  made  with  Puritan  simplicity,  and  Olivia's 
dress  of  soft  white  satin  was  without  a  single 
jewel.  Its  only  ornament  was  the  large  collar 
of  Brussels  lace  which  covered  her  throat  and 
her  bosom,  and  the  cuffs  of  the  same  material, 
which  were  turned  back  over  the  long  satin 
sleeves  almost  to  the  elbows.  But  the  glisten- 
ing of  her  garments,  the  radiant  serenity  of 
her  face,  and  her  starry  eyes,  gave  her  a  singu- 
lar charm.  She  appeared  to  shine  where  she 
stood.  And  the  easy  grace  and  confidence  of 
her  manner  were  a  wonder  even  to  her  com- 
panions. For  none  at  that  moment  reflected 
that  the  soul  accustomed  to  contemplate  the 
solemnities  of  eternity  is  not  to  be  affected  by 
the  gilded  show  of  what  is  constantly  passing 
away.  Yet  the  scene  through  which  she  walked 
was  to  her  a  very  strange  one,  and  as  far  apart 
from  her  sympathies  and  intelligence  as  the 
east  is  from  the  west. 

The  large  apartments  were  brilliantly  lighted, 
and  the  air  was  heavy  with  many  perfumes  and 
the  rich  odors  of  southern  wines.  Gaily  dressed 
dissolute  women  and  men  were  playing  basset 
round  a  large  table  with  a  terrible  eagerness. 
Their  sharp,  strained  voices,  and  the  chink, 
chink  of  gold  mingled  with  the  notes  of  a 
French  boy  singing  love  songs,  with  laughter 
half  subdued,  with  the  rustle  of  silken  gar- 
ments and  the  gurgle  of  flowing  liquors. 

The  king  sat  amid  a  bevy  of  handsome 
women,  toying  with  the  loosened  hair  of  one 
who  held  in  her  hand  a  goblet  of  wine ;  every- 
where around  the  god  of  this  world  and  the 
great  lord  of  lusts  ruling  with  prodigal  wan- 
tonness. 

But  Charles  knew  how  to  assume  in  a  mo- 
ment the  attitude  belonging  to  the  king  of 
a  great  people.  He  stepped  majestically  for- 
ward, and  won  Strickland's  heart  anew  by  a 
greeting  at  once  respectful  and  familiar,  and 
by  the  genuine  glance  of  admiration  which  he 
bestowed  upon  his  bride.  She  knelt  to  kiss  the 
hand  he  extended,  but  Charles  quickly  raised 
her,  and  touching  her  cheek  said,  "  Kings  are 


the  servants  of  beauty."  With  the  words,  he 
took  a  ring  from  his  finger  and  gave  it  to  her. 

Then  Strickland  introduced  Nathaniel  Kel- 
der,  saying,  "  He  brings  to  your  Majesty  a  loyal 
service." 

"  A  recovered  loyalty  is  greatly  prized  by 
us,"  answered  Charles.  "  Some  of  our  sub- 
jects do  not  credit  us  with  much  conscience, 
but  we  credit  conscience  to  our  subjects  —  and 
know  how  to  value  it."  Then,  while  offering 
his  hand  to  Nathaniel,  he  turned  to  Olivia. 

She  was  regarding  him  with  an  almost  child- 
ish interest,  and  he  smiled  frankly  into  her  in- 
nocent face.  It  seemed  to  have  a  great  and 
yet  not  an  offensive  attraction  to  him ;  he 
scarcely  heard  Nathaniel  speaking ;  he  was 
too  earnestly  trying  to  comprehend  the  pure, 
womanly  countenance  to  heed  words,  until  the 
name  of  "Prideaux  was  mentioned.  Then  he 
recollected  what  Strickland  had  told  him  of  De 
Burg,  and  Kelder,  and  the  Quaker  Prideaux, 
and  he  understood  the  holy  eyes,  and  the  face 
upon  which  the  dove  visibly  brooded,  and  the 
ravishing  simplicity  of  manner  and  dress.  His 
glance  went  from  Olivia  to  Nathaniel,  and  he 
regarded  both  with  great  favor. 

"  I  think,  Mistress  Kelder,  that  the  king  has 
in  you  a  loyal  subject." 

"  Yea ;  for  thou  hast  been  kind  to  many 
suffering  wrongfully.  In  the  day  when  all  need 
mercy,  may  God  give  thee  mercy." 

"  Be  it  so." 

"  I  offer  thee  neither  lip  service  nor  knee 
worship,  but  my  heart  hath  none  the  less  truth 
and  honor."  Then  perceiving  him  about  to 
unfasten  a  jeweled  clasp  of  great  value,  she 
said,  modestly : 

"  Give  me  the  rose  thou  wearest,  and  I  will 
keep  it  for  a  token  of  thy  kindness  to  me  and 
to  my  people." 

Instantly  Charles  understood  her.  He  had 
been  on  the  point  of  making  her  a  much  richer 
present  than  the  one  given  to  the  wife  of  his 
faithful  adherent  —  a  present,  also,  which  her 
principles  forbade  her  to  wear.  But  that  wisdom 
which  springs  from  an  unselfish  heart  had  pre- 
vented a  gift  likely  to  bring  unkindness  and 
embarrassment,  and  it  was  with  a  sentiment 
of  grateful  admiration  that  he  took  the  rose 
from  his  jeweled  vest  and  gave  it  to  her. 

An  act  of  such  evident  favor  at  once  at- 
tracted attention.  Indeed  it  was  impossible,  in 
that  company,  for  Olivia  to  escape  a  critical 
regard.  The  gift  of  the  rose  was  to  many  who 
understood  none  of  its  motives  a  gift  sugges- 
tive of  the  evil  in  their  hearts.  "  The  king  is 
freshly  smitten ;  't  is  a  love  gift,"  was  the  uni- 
versal comment. 

One  woman,  however,  was  not  so  deceived. 
She  saw  in  it  the  expression  of  a  respect  which 
Charles  believed  very  few  men  or  women  de- 


856 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


served.  It  was  Mistress  Chenage.  She  was 
with  the  players  at  the  basset  table,  and  though 
a  bank  of  at  least  two  thousand  pounds  in  gold 
lay  before  her  she  was  thinking  only  of  the 
king's  rose. 

At  first  when  she  saw  Nathaniel  and  Olivia, 
with  the  Stricklands,  enter  the  royal  presence, 
she  had  wisely  determined  to  be  indifferent  to 
them.  But  the  exclamations  about  Olivia's 
beauty,  her  angelic  face,  her  charming  sim- 
plicity, had  been  gradually  growing  more  fre- 
quent and  emphatic,  and  more  difficult  for  her 
to  endure.  The  gift  of  the  rose,  attended  by 
a  general  murmur  of  pleasure  and  admiration, 
roused  her  to  that  pitch  of  jealous  envy  which 
demands  the  relief  of  offensive  speech. 

As  the  Kelders  retired  from  the  audience 
she  was  conscious  of  their  every  footstep.  The 
closer  to  her  they  came  the  more  imperative 
and  insolent  her  temper  grew.  She  turned  with 
the  cards  fan  shaped  in  her  hand,  and  watched 
with  her  old  mockery  the  approach  of  the 
party.  Her  beautiful  face  was  flushed  with 
wine  and  anger ;  her  dark  hair,  combed  back 
from  her  forehead,  fell  in  heavy  curls  over  her 
shoulders,  and  mingled  with  the  pearls  that 
clasped  her  slender  throat  and  the  lace  which 
affected  to  cover  her  bosom.  A  dress  of  pink 
brocade  and  silver  threads  clung  to  her  form 
with  seductive  grace,  and  she  flung  its  heavy 
folds  aside  to  display  her  little  feet,  shod  in 
pink  and  silver  shoes,  as  she  rose  from  the  ta- 
ble and  stood  directly  in  the  way  of  the  retir- 
ing visitors.  Strickland  was  first.  She  made 
him  a  sweeping  courtesy  and  suffered  him  and 
his  bride  to  pass ;  then,  in  a  challenging  voice, 
she  said  : 

"  Cousin  Nathaniel,  be  not  in  such  a  hurry 
to  hide  your  Quaker  wife.  Come  here,  Saint 
Olivia.  If  you  kiss  me,  I  vow  to  show  you 
how  to  cheat  the  devil  at  a  game  of  basset." 

"  If  thou  playest  with  the  devil  in  any  wise 
thou  wilt  lose  thy  soul.  And  what  gain  will 
profit  thee  for  that  loss  ?  "  Nathaniel  could  feel 
his  wife's  inward  tremor  as  she  spoke,  but  out- 
wardly she  was  calm  as  a  lily  motionless  in  the 
moonlight ;  and  with  a  stern  courtesy  he  said : 
"  We  are  in  the  king's  presence,  Cousin  Che- 
nage. You  shall  show  your  anger  to  me  at  a 
more  fitting  time." 

"  How  wise  are  we  grown !  How  strangely 
loyal !  How  beyond  all  comparison  excellent ! 
Here,  boy,  I  will  give  you  a  song  for  this  great 
and  grand  monseigneur  — 

il  Que  son  merite  est  extreme! 
Que  de  graces  !  Que  de  grandeur ! 
Ah  !  combien  monseigneur 
Doit  etre  content  de  lui-meme." 

This  little  episode  had  not  occupied  more 
time  than  the  ordinary  salutation  of  friends 


would  have  done,  but  it  had  made  a  much 
more  pronounced  impression.  The  hurry  of  the 
beautiful  Mistress  Chenage,  her  rapid  speech, 
the  excitement  which  made  her  forget  the  cards 
in  her  hands  and  led  her  to  intercept  the 
king's  special  visitors,  gave  to  the  interruption 
a  marked  character.  A  swift  intelligence  of  its 
spirit  passed  through  the  great  hall;  the  players 
held  their  next  throw  in  suspense,the  singing  boy 
was  humming  at  Anastasia's  elbow,  "  Que  de 
graces  !  Que  de  gra?ideur  I  "  and  the  woman  who 
was  leaning  against  the  king's  shoulder  said : 

"  Sire,  Chenage  hath  a  temper  again.  A 
bride  or  a  beauty  is  a  red  flag  to  her." 

Charles  laughed  with  scornful  good  nature. 
"  On  my  honor  !  't  was  a  red  rose  that  bred 
the  present  temper  ";  and  the  king's  wit  raised 
the  laugh  which  Anastasia  felt  she  paid  for. 

Her  game  was  every  way  lost.  While  she 
was  turning  Nathaniel's  virtues  into  a  ridicu- 
lous rhyme  he  had  passed  quietly  out  of  her 
presence.  Her  anger  had  missed  its  mark,  and 
she  was  equally  unsuccessful  in  her  play.  She 
lost  heavily,  she  provoked  the  temper  of  her 
companions,  she  had  evidently  offended  her 
genius  by  taking  revenge  into  her  own  hands. 
Never  had  she  felt  so  utterly  foiled  and  hu- 
miliated. 

She  went  to  her  lodgings  in  a  fever.  "  The 
king  openly  forsoothed  me,"  she  cried  pas- 
sionately, as  she  tore  off  her  robe  of  pink  dam- 
ask and  the  pearls  from  her  neck  and  wrists. 
She  looked  at  her  long  white  arms,  they  were 
exquisitely  formed ;  she  looked  at  her  white 
throat  and  bosom,  no  woman  in  the  presence 
was  lovelier  than  herself.  But  the  king  had 
"  forsoothed  "  her ;  treated  even  her  passion 
as  matter  for  laughter.  She  held  her  fair  face 
between  her  hands  and  muttered  : 

"  Alack-a-day  !  I  am  but  a  wretched  wom- 
an. Everything  in  life  deceives  me.  Every 
plan  I  make  fails.  My  lovers  adore  and  then 
leave  me.  My  father  has  so  small  a  sense  of 
what  I  have  done  for  him  that  I  have  the 
heartache  for  it.  Failure  is  writ  all  over 
my  life.  I  wish  I  had  been  born  good,  for 
the  devil  is  a  cheat  of  all  cheats.  I  have  been 
mortified  beyond  all  endurance.  I  have  lost 
more  money  than  even  John  will  like,  and 
my  poor  head  is  in  a  sad  taking  with  the  wine. 
Nathaniel  Kelder  kissing  the  king's  hand  ! 
Saint  Olivia  with  the  king's  rose  at  her  breast ! 
Lord,  if  I  swear  a  little,  write  me  innocent, 
having  such  good  cause.  But  I  shall  tell  John 
to-morrow,  and  he  will  curse  them  all  for  me !  " 

For  she  had  not  come  to  London  without 
John.  He  had  a  lodging  at  Greenwich  by  the 
seaside,  and  there  he  sat  in  the  sunshine  and 
heard  the  cries  of  the  sailors  and  the  voice  of 
the  ocean  once  more.  "  I  shall  tell  John  to- 
morrow.   He  will  find  out  a  way.  Lord,  how 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


857 


my  head  aches !  "  Then  she  bent  herself  to- 
wards a  half-open  drawer,  and  took  from  it  a 
soiled  pack  of  cards.  She  shuffled  them  to 
and  fro  a  few  times,  and  then,  with  a  slow  and 
vicious  hatred,  tore  them,  one  by  one,  to 
pieces.  "  You,  too,  are  prophesying  liars.  A 
plain  undoing  you  have  been  to  me.  What 
devil  is  b.ehind  you  ?  "  So  she  sat  musing  until 
sleep  mastered  her,  and,  only  half  undressed, 
she  threw  herself  upon  the  bed. 

But  in  the  sinful  and  tragic  events  of  the 
last  four  years  she  had  lost  the  aptitude  for 
that  deep,  animal-like  sleep  which  had  once 
made  her  so  cruelly  riant  in  her  perfect  health 
and  perfect  spirits.  She  could  not  escape  the 
chagrin  of  her  position.  The  phantasmagoria 
of  the  Whitehall,  with  its  gamblers  and  drink- 
ers, its  clinking  of  gold,  and  its  murmur  of  song 
that  no  one  listened  to,  troubled  her  conscious- 
ness, and  made  her  frequently  start  with  that 
cry  of  mortification  and  that  catch  in  its  ex- 
pression which  denotes  the  extremity  of  pain- 
ful vexation.  Her  lovely  flushed  face  amid  the 
scattered  hair  of  sleep,  her  white  arms  flung 
upward,  her  white  bosom  troubled  with  her 
restless  breathing,  showed  that  her  soul,  left 
without  excuses,  was  wandering  in  those  halls 
of  remorseful  memory  in  which  the  wisest  of 
all  sacred  seers  saw  the  sleeping  wicked  vexed. 

The  unhappy  incident  did  not  much  disturb 
either  the  Stricklands  or  the  Kelders.  They 
went  from  the  palace  to  Strickland's  lodging 
and  talked  about  it  a  little,  and  so  rubbed  the 
slight  annoyance  away.  For  both  felt  that  they 
had  received  that  favor  which  kings  give  to 
men  whom  they  delight  to  honor,  and  from 
Nathaniel's  heart  there  had  dropped,  even  at 
the  king's  feet,  that  heavy  load  of  apprehen- 
sion concerning  his  estate  which  he  had  so 
long  carried. 

It  was  past  midnight  when  Nathaniel  and 
Olivia  reached  their  own  inn.  There  was  a 
large  letter  on  the  table,  and  Nathaniel  saw  at 
a  glance  that  the  direction  was  in  his  mother's 
writing.  He  lifted  it  with  a  slight  fear  of  annoy- 
ance, but  the  first  words  dispelled  his  anxiety. 

FOR    MY   BELOVED   CHILDREN,   NATHANIEL    AND    OLIVIA 
KELDER THESE. 

Dear  Ones  :  If  you  will  be  pleased  to  know  that 
I  wish  you  with  me,  't  is  a  satisfaction  you  may 
perpetually  have.  There  is  great  and  good  news, 
and  I  am  so  little  selfish  that  I  will  not  keep  it  for 
my  own  delivery,  but  at  once  add  it  to  the  joy  of 
your  bridal.  Mistress  Mettelane  came  here  two  days 
ago,  at  my  own  invitation,  and  never  was  I  more 
pleased  with  myself  for  a  kindness  ;  for  truly  she 
hath  astonished  us  all  with  her  excellence  and  her 


THE    END. 


generosity.  I  had  indeed  made  such  preparation  for 
your  comfort  in  Kelderby  as  our  means  and  the 
house  permitted,  but  she  has  far  outdone  all,  having 
brought  with  her  the  vellums  securing  to  you  and 
yours  the  house  and  estate  of  Sandys.  And,  to  be 
plain-hearted  with  you,  I  went  there  this  day,  and 
with  Mistress  Mettelane  put  into  place  all  the  silver 
and  linen  and  ornaments  which  had  been  taken 
away  for  safe  keeping,  but  brought  back  with  such 
good  intent  as  I  cannot  but  honor  and  join  in. 
Jane  D'Acre  was  also  there,  busying  herself  about 
filling  the  posy  bowls  with  holly  and  wood  berries 
and  house  roses,  and  hanging  the  pots  of  sweet 
musk,  which  she  saith  Olivia  dearly  loveth.  So 
then,  if  God  is  willing,  you  are  coming  to  as  fine 
a  home  as  any  in  England.  But  both  houses  are 
ready  to  entertain  you  ;  and  if  you  come  first  to 
Kelderby,  we  shall  take  the  daylight  with  us  some 
bright  morning,  and  father  and  mother  and  aunt 
and  neighbors  put  you  safe  inside  the  portals  of 
Seat  Sandys.  And,  as  Mistress  Mettelane  said,  may 
God  make  your  home  there  until  your  father  and 
I  have  seen  the  twentieth  Odinel  Kelder  of  full  age 
and  worthy  of  his  name.  As  you  know,  I  am  but 
a  poor  scribe,  and  I  write  now  in  such  haste  and 
excitement  as  cannot  satisfy  myself,  nor  express  my 
thoughts  as  I  mean  them  ;  and  if  I  did,  I  should 
have  more  to  say  to  you  than  this  paper  would 
hold.  Dears,  shall  we  not  be  very  happy?  Indeed 
I  think  the  promise  of  it  infinitely  above  what  I 
can  deserve,  and  more  than  God  Almighty  usually 
allots  to  the  very  best  of  people.  Pray  have  a  care 
of  your  healths.  I  would  fain  say  more,  and  yet  it 
would  only  be  saying  with  more  circumstance  that 
I  rest  to  each  of  you  a  loving  mother. 

Joan  Kelder. 

They  read  this  letter  together  twice  over;  and 
smiles,  and  little  laughs,  and  sweet  asides,  and 
sweeter  kisses  interpreted  it.  And  then  Na- 
thaniel drew  his  wife  close  to  his  side.  For  a 
few  moments  they  made  a  still  picture  of  won- 
drous beauty.  Nathaniel's  stately  figure  in  the 
somber  richness  of  his  velvet  habit,  Olivia's 
slender  form  in  the  pearly  splendor  of  her  white 
satin  robe ;  the  masculine  beauty  of  one  bend- 
ing face  luminous  with  love,  the  feminine 
beauty  of  the  other  lifted  face  transfigured, 
speechless,  yet  saying  things  unutterable  —  the 
spiritual  woman  making  sweet  the  mortal 
woman. 

Nathaniel  kissed  the  words  upon  her  lips, 
and  then,  with  a  sigh  of  deep  content,  said 
softly,  "  Many  blessings  are  ours,  dear  heart, 
and  many  others  are  sought  for  us;  but  tell 
me,  in  thy  judgment,  which  is  best  of  all  ?  " 
And  she  laid  her  cheek  against  his,  and  put 
her  arms  around  his  neck,  and  whispered  be- 
tween her  kisses,  "  Beloved !  that  we  may 
receive  the  great  grace  of  our  bridal  prayer : 
'  Mercifully  ordain  that  we  may  grow  old 
together.'" 

Amelia  E.  Barr. 


Vol.  XL.— 112. 


ON    METEORITES    AND    THE    HISTORY    OF 
STELLAR    SYSTEMS.1 


T  is  only  within  the  last  few 
years  that  photographic 
processes  have  been  so  far 
perfected  as  to  make  it 
possible  to  photograph  a 
faintly  luminous  celestial 
object.  The  success  at- 
tained has  already  been  so 
great  that  we  are  made 
aware  of  the  existence  of  a  multitude  of  stars 
which  would  never  have  been  otherwise  per- 
ceived, even  with  the  finest  telescope  and  un- 
der the  purest  air.  The  sensitized  plate  sums 
up  the  effects  of  light,  so  that  under  prolonged 
exposure  even  a  very  faint  light  at  length  pro- 
duces its  mark.  In  this  respect  the  advantage 
is  all  on  the  side  of  the  photograph  as  com- 
pared with  the  eye,  for  prolonged  gazing 
is  actually  detrimental  to  the  acuteness  of 
vision. 

The  exposure  necessary  for  an  ordinary  pho- 
tograph in  the  broad  daylight  may  be  only  a 
fraction  of  a  second,  but  with  the  feeble  light 
of  the  stars  three  or  four  hours  are  found  to  be 
necessary  or  advantageous.  Fortunately  for 
the  astronomer  the  heavens  move  uniformly, 
and  the  instrument  can  be  made  to  follow  the 
object  by  clockwork.  But  as  clocks  are  im- 
perfect, the  motion  of  the  photographic  tele- 
scope has  to  be  constantly  regulated  by  hand, 
so  as  to  keep  exact  pace  with  a  star,  which  is 
viewed  through  a  second  telescope  attached 
to  the  first  one.  It  may  easily  be  conceived 
that  it  has  required  an  enormous  amount  of 
skill  and  patience  to  attain  to  the  present  high 
degree  of  perfection.  But  the  details  of  ce- 
lestial photography  are  outside  the  scope  of 
this  paper,  and  I  am  only  concerned  with  some 
of  the  conclusions  which  have  been  drawn 
from  the  photographic  method. 

Mr.  Isaac  Roberts  of  Liverpool  has  re- 
cently photographed  a  portion  of  the  heavens, 
embracing  about  four  square  degrees,  in  the 
constellation  of  Cygnus,  and  he  estimates  that 
his  plate  shows  about  sixteen  thousand  stars, 
none  of  which  are,  I  believe,  visible  with  the 
naked  eye.  A  good  idea  may  be  formed  of 
this  picture  by  imagining  a  sheet  of  dark  paper 

1  This  essay  formed  the  subject  of  a  lecture  deliv- 
ered at  the  Royal  Institution  of  London  on  January 
25,  1889.  It  gives  a  popular  account  of  a  paper  read 
before  the  Royal  Society  in  the  previous  November. 

858 


thoroughly  splashed  with  whitewash.  The 
recent  advance  of  celestial  photography  is 
well  illustrated  by  the  fact  that  this  same 
portion  of  the  heavens,  when  photographed 
in  1885,  appeared  to  contain  only  about  five 
thousand  stars.  Thus  four  years  has  tripled 
the  number. 

Four  square  degrees  comprise  only  about 
a  ten-thousandth  of  the  whole  heavens,  and 
if  space  were  everywhere  as  thickly  peopled 
as  the  constellation  of  the  swan,  the  whole 
number  of  stars  photographically  visible  would 
reach  the  stupendous  total  of  one  hundred  and 
sixty-seven  millions.  But  the  Milky  Way  runs 
through  Cygnus,  and  this  is  a  crowded  portion 
of  the  heavens.  Yet  there  is  little  doubt  that 
a  hundred  millions  of  stars  would  already  be 
perceptible  if  the  whole  heavens  were  sur- 
veyed with  equal  thoroughness. 

These  celestial  photographs  bring  vividly 
before  us  the  utter-  insignificance  of  this  world 
and  of  ourselves ;  for  our  planet  is  of  almost 
contemptible  smallness,  and  our  sun  is  cer- 
tainly a  star  of  no  great  magnitude. 

And  yet  it  is  nearly  twice  as  far  from  the  sun's 
center  to  his  surface  as  from  here  to  the  moon, 
and  the  planet  Neptune  is  distant  nearly  three 
thousand  million  miles  from  the  sun.  The  mind 
fails  to  grasp  such  a  number  of  stars  as  a 
hundred  million,  and  a  limit  to  the  perfection 
of  celestial  photography  has  certainly  not  yet 
been  reached. 

Each  of  these  millions  of  stars  has  its  history, 
and  there  are  among  them  representatives  of 
every  stage  of  evolution.  If  they  were  not, 
even  with  the  telescope,  mere  specks  of  light, 
we  might  see  the  whole  process  before  us, 
and  might  study  them  like  the  objects  in  a 
museum. 

Among  the  stars  there  are,  however,  small 
luminous  clouds  called  nebulae,  which  are  not 
immeasurably  small.  They  have  of  course 
been  examined  with  all  the  finest  telescopes 
for  many  years,  and  many  strange  vagaries  in 
their  structure  have  been  noted. 

It  is  true  that  we  know  the  stars  and  nebulae 
to  be  made  of  materials  found  on  the  earth, 
and  we  can  estimate  approximately  how  hot 
they  are,  and  which  are  old  in  their  history 
and  which  are  young.  All  this  has  been  dis- 
covered by  means  of  that  wonderful  instrument 
the  spectroscope,  but  it  cannot  show  us  their 


ON  METEORITES  AND  THE  HISTORY  OF  STELLAR  SYSTEMS.  859 


shapes  and  structures.  Within  the  last  few 
months,  however,  there  is  reason  to  hope  that 
the  telescopic  photograph  may  really  bring  be- 
fore us  in  an  intelligible  shape  many  objects 
from  the  celestial  museum. 

Notwithstanding  the  paucity  of  definite 
knowledge,  many  theories  have  been  pro- 
pounded as  to  the  sequence  of  changes 
through  which  the  solar  system  has  passed. 
The  most  celebrated  of  these  is  that  associated 
with  the  names  of  the  great  mathematician 
Laplace  and  of  the  philosopher  Kant.  It  is 
remarkable  that  substantially  the  same  theory 
should  have  been  independently  formulated  by 
two  men  whose  intellects  were  so  different. 

They  both  suggested  that  the  matter  which 
now  forms  the  sun  and  the  planets  existed  in 
primitive  times  as  a  globular  nebula  of  highly 
rarefied  gas  in  slow  rotation,  and  their  theory 
is  accordingly  generally  known  as  the  nebu- 
lar hypothesis. 

Every  portion  of  this  nebula  of  course  at- 
tracted every  other  portion,  and  therefore  there 
must  have  been  a  condensation  at  the  center, 
at  which  point  a  dense  nucleus  must  ultimately 
have  formed. 

The  rotation  made  the  nebula  fly  out  like 
a  trundled  mop,  but  the  outward  tendency 
was  counteracted  by  attraction.  This  battle 
between  the  attraction  due  to  gravitation  and 
the  repulsion  due  to  rotation  caused  a  flatten- 
ing of  the  globe,  so  that  it  became  orange 
shaped. 

The  gas  of  which  the  nebula  was  composed 
possessed  heat,  the  central  part  being  prob- 
ably very  hot  and  the  external  part  very  cold, 
as  estimated  by  terrestrial  standards.  As  the 
energy  of  heat  was  gradually  lost  by  radiation 
into  space  the  globe  shrunk,  and  at  the  same 
time  the  central  portion  became  still  hotter. 

In  consequence  of  the  shrinkage,  the  rate 
of  rotation  was  increased.  This  mechanical 
effect  may  easily  be  illustrated  thus :  if  I  whirl 
a  stone  attached  to  a  string  and  let  the  string 
wind  itself  up  on  my  finger,  the  stone  will 
whirl  faster  and  faster  as  the  string  shortens. 

Lastly,  with  increased  rate  of  rotation  the 
increased  repulsion  due  to  centrifugal  force 
augmented  the  flattening  of  the  globe.  At 
length  a  time  arrived  when  the  globe  was  flat- 
tened until  it  became  more  like  a  disk  than  a 
globe,  and  gravitation  was  then  no  longer  ca- 
pable of  holding  it  together  in  a  single  shape. 

Everywhere  in  the  nebula  the  gas  was  be- 
ing pressed  by  the  surrounding  gas,  attracted 
towards  the  center  of  the  nebula,  and  repelled 
by  centrifugal  force  away  from  the  axis  of 
rotation.  The  attraction  diminishes  and  the 
repulsion  increases  the  farther  we  go  from  the 
center.  If  at  a  place  near  the  edge  of  the 
disk-like  globe  the  attraction  and  repulsion  are 


just  equal  to  one  another,  pressure  is  not 
called  into  play  in  keeping  the  gas  in  its  place. 
At  this  distance  from  the  center,  then,  the  gas 
which  is  outside  does  not  press  at  all  on  that 
which  is  inside,  and  the  inner  gas  may  part 
company  with  the  outer  gas  without  disturb- 
ance to  it. 

In  fact,  according  to  the  nebular  hypothesis, 
when  the  flattening  had  reached  a  certain  de- 
gree a  ring  separated  itself  from  the  equato- 
rial regions.  The  central  portion,  thus  relieved, 
regained  a  more  globular  shape,  continued  to 
contract  and  to  spin  quicker,  until  a  second 
crisis  supervened,  when  another  ring  was  shed. 
A  succession  of  rings  was  thus  formed,  and 
after  the  detachment  of  the  last  the  central 
portion,  continuing  to  contract,  at  length 
formed  the  sun. 

Each  ring,  as  soon  as  it  was  free,  began  to 
aggregate  round  some  denser  portion  in  its 
periphery.  Subordinate  nebulas  were  thus 
formed,  and  they  in  their  turn  contracted  and 
shed  rings.  The  nucleus  of  the  secondary 
nebulae  formed  the  planets,  and  their  rings 
condensed  into  satellites. 

This  is  an  outline  of  the  celebrated  nebular 
hypothesis.  I  shall  now  show  what  an  inter- 
esting confirmation  this  theory  receives  from  a 
recent  photograph. 

There  is  in  the  constellation  of  Andromeda 
a  nebula  so  remarkable  that  its  nebulous  char- 
acter was  recognized  even  long  before  the  in- 
vention of  the  telescope.1 

This  nebula  was  first  photographed  with 
conspicuous  success,2  in  October,  1888,  by 
Mr.  Roberts,  and  again  on  the  29th  of  the  fol- 
lowing December,  1888.  Our  illustration  is 
from  the  latter  of  these,  in  which  the  exposure 
was  for  four  hours. 

The  result  is  of  the  greatest  interest,  for  in 
it  we  actually  see  what  Laplace  pictured  with 
his  mind's  eye.  There  is  a  bright  central  con- 
densation surrounded  by  ring  after  ring,  grad- 
ually dying  away  into  faintness. 

In  one  of  the  rings  there  is  a  region  of 
greater  brightness,  which  may  fairly  be  inter- 
preted as  the  center  of  aggregation  for  a  planet. 
At  another  place  which  is  clearly  more  remote 
from  the  center,  although  brought  nearer  by 
foreshortening,  we  have  a  brilliant  round  lu- 
minous ball  —  surely  a  planetary  nebula  al- 
ready formed.  At  a  much  greater  distance  there 
is  an  elongated  nebulosity,  which  we  may  con- 
jecture to  be  a  planetary  nebula  seen  edgewise, 

1  It  has,  of  course,  been  examined  with  all  the  finest 
telescopes.  In  1848  Bond  of  Harvard  College  made 
a  fine  drawing  of  it —  fine  at  least  as  a  drawing,  but 
now  principally  serving  to  emphasize  the  immense 
superiority  of  the   camera  to  the  eye. 

2  The  very  remarkable  results  attained  by  Mr. 
Roberts  are  due,  I  believe,  to  the  fact  that  he  has  been 
the  first  to  try  very  long  exposures. 


860  ON  METEORITES  AND  THE  HISTORY  OE  STELLAR  SYSTEMS. 


but  in  a  further  state  of  advance  than  the  other. 
It  is  worthy  of  notice  that  the  remote  planets 
Neptune  and  Uranus  rotate  about  axes  nearly 
in  the  plane  of  their  orbits,  and  from  the  direc- 
tion of  elongation  of  this  subordinate  nebula  it 
seems  as  though  the  like  must  be  true  here. 

In  1848  Bond  measured  the  positions  of 
these  two  bright  small  nebulae  relatively  to  the 
large  one,  and  they  seem  to  have  changed 
their  positions  since  that  date.  This  confirms 
the  theory  that  they  are  planets,  but  it  must 
be  admitted  that  measurements  with  reference 
to  an  ill-defined  object  like  a  nebula  are  hard 
to  make  with  precision. 

I  should  suppose  this  to  be  the  greatest 
triumph  yet  achieved  by  celestial  photography, 
and  I  owe  my  sincere  thanks  to  Mr.  Roberts 
for  allowing  me  to  reproduce  it.1 

But  these  pictures,  while  confirming  the  sub- 
stantial truth  of  the  nebular  hypothesis,  fail  to 
clear  up  many  of  the  obscurities  which  surround 
the  evolution  of  a  planetary  system.  There  is 
one  difficulty  indeed  so  fundamental  that  it 
has  led  some  astronomers  virtually  to  throw 
over  the  whole  theory,  and  it  forms  the  spe- 
cial object  of  this  essay  to  discuss  it. 

It  is  the  very  essence  of  the  nebular  hy- 
pothesis that  the  nebula  should  be  formed  of 
continuous  gas,  one  part  of  which  exercises  a 
pressure  on  another  part ;  for  we  have  seen 
how  gaseous  pressure  is  instrumental  in  impart- 
ing the  globular  form  to  the  whole,  and  how 
when  the  globe  loses  heat  and  shrinks  it  is  just 
along  that  line  where  the  pressure  vanishes 
that  the  ring  splits  off. 

Now  there  is  no  perceptible  trace  in  the 
solar  system  of  that  all-pervading  gas  from 
which  the  whole  is  supposed  to  have  been 
evolved;  for  the  planets  do  not  suffer  any 
sensible  retardation  in  their  motion  round  the 
sun,  as  would  be  the  case  if  they  were  moving 
through  even  a  highly  rarefied  gas. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  is  evidence  of 
abundance  of  solid  bodies  flying  through  space. 
When  these  bodies  meet  our  atmosphere  they 
glow  up  white-hot  with  friction,  and  are  called 
falling  stars  or  meteorites.  Though  they  are 
generally  dissipated  into  dust  in  their  passage 
through  the  air,  yet  once  in  a  while  one  of 
them  owes  its  preservation  to  its  greater  size, 
and  falls  on  the  earth.  We  thus  know  them 
to  be  strange-looking  stones,  largely  composed 
of  iron. 

The  ring  which  surrounds  the  planet  Saturn 
was  obviously  suggestive  of  the  nebular  hy- 
pothesis to  the  minds  of  Laplace  and  Kant. 
But  it  has  been  conclusively  proved  by  the  re- 
searches of  Roche  and  Clerk  Maxwell  to  con- 

1  Since  this  paper  was  written  he  has  continued  his 
researches  and  has  produced  results  of  no  less  interest 
than  the  present  one. 


sist  of  a  swarm  of  loose  stones — a  shower  of 
brickbats,  as  Maxwell  was  fond  of  calling  it. 
And  now  within  the  last  three  years  spectro- 
scopic research  has  led  Mr.  Lockyer  to  sug- 
gest that  the  luminous  gas,  which  undoubt- 
edly forms  the  visible  portion  of  the  nebulae, 
is  simply  gas  volatilized  from  the  solid  state 
and  rendered  incandescent  by  the  violent  im- 
pact of  meteoric  stones. 

These  gases,  he  tells  us,  cool  quickly,  cease 
to  be  luminous,  and  condense  again  into  the 
solid  state,  but  the  collisions  being  incessant, 
the  whole  nebula  shines  with  a  steady  light. 
Mr.  Lockyer  supports  his  view  by  an  elaborate 
comparison  of  the  spectra  of  stars  and  nebulae 
with  those  of  actual  meteorites,  fused  by  the 
electric  spark  in  the  laboratory.  I  have  not 
the  knowledge  of  spectroscopy  which  would 
be  necessary  to  examine  his  theory,  but  his 
general  conclusions  seem  to  be  of  the  highest 
importance  in  the  study  of  stellar  systems. 

All  these  lines  of  observation  conspire  to  in- 
dicate that  the  immediate  antecedent  of  the 
sun  and  planets  was  not  a  continuous  gas,  but 
a  swarm  of  loose  stones.  And  yet  the  nebular 
hypothesis  seems  as  good  as  proved  by  this 
photograph  of  Mr.  Roberts.  Here  then  we 
find  ourselves  in  a  dilemma ;  on  the  one  hand 
we  have  the  meteoric  theory  denying  the  con- 
tinuity of  the  matter  which  forms  the  nebulae, 
whilst  on  the  other  hand  the  nebular  hypo- 
thesis demands  such  continuity.  I  wish  to 
emphasize  this  point — either  a  nebula  is  made 
of  a  cooling  gas,  such  as  hydrogen,  nitrogen, 
oxygen,  and  the  vapors  of  metals,  or  it  is  not 
so.  The  nebular  hypothesis  apparently  says  it 
must  consist  of  gas,  whilst  this  is  denied  by 
the  strong  evidence  that  it  consisted  of  an 
enormous  number  of  stones.  It  seems  at  first 
that  either  the  nebular  hypothesis  or  the  mete- 
oric theory  must  be  untrue. 

I  believe,  nevertheless,  that  there  is  a  way 
in  which  these  conflicting  ideas  may  be 
brought  into  harmony  and  made  to  reinforce 
one  another,  and  the  special  object  of  this 
paper  is  to  effect  such  a  reconciliation.  But 
before  coming  to  that  we  must  leave  for  a 
time  the  world  of  stars,  and  must  consider  the 
ultimate  structure  of  a  gas,  such  as  the  air  we 
breathe.  A  gas  is  now  known  to  consist  of 
ultra-microscopic  molecules,  all  exactly  alike 
in  weight,  shape,  and  structure.  Although 
they  are  invisible,  they  can  be  counted  and 
timed  :  there  are  found  to  be  millions  in  a 
cubic  inch  of  air,  moving  indiscriminately  in 
all  directions,  with  great  velocity.  For  ex- 
ample, in  the  air,  at  a  temperature  of  60 ° 
Fahrenheit,  their  average  speed  is  1570  feet 
a  second  —  half  as  fast  again  as  the  velocity 
of  sound.  The  temperature  of  a  gas  simply 
depends  on  the  rate  at  which  the  molecules 


ON  METEORITES  AND  THE  HISTORY  OF  STELLAR  SYSTEMS.  861 


are  moving.  Millions  of  times  in  each  second 
each  one  of  these  molecules  happens  by  chance 
to  strike  one  of  its  neighbors,  and  the  two 
which  have  struck  rebound  from  each  other 
as  though  they  were  of  India  rubber,  or  at  any 
rate  after  such  an  encounter  they  behave  as 
though  they  were  perfectly  elastic.  If  we  could 
watch  the  crowd  we  should  see  the  individuals 
darting  about  in  a  zigzag  course,  being  de- 
flected into  a  new  direction  at  each  collision. 
*I  have  often  been  reminded  of  this  so-called 
kinetic  theory  of  gases,  when  watching  the 
dance  of  a  little  swarm  of  house-flies  as  they 
zigzag  about  and  sharply  change  their  paths, 
when,  for  a  second,  two  of  them  get  entangled 
together.  Perhaps  this  familiar  example  may 
help  the  reader  to  realize  the  dance  of  the 
molecules  in  a  gas. 

The  incessant  agitation  of  molecules  is  quite 
independent  of  winds  and  drafts,  and  when 
as  many  molecules  are  going  in  any  one  di- 
rection as  in  any  other  we  consider  the  air  to 
be  calm.  What  we  call  a  wind  is  when  more 
molecules  are  going  in  the  direction  of  the 
wind  than  in  any  other. 

The  molecules  of  a  gas  are  not  aimed  at  one 
another,  and  as  a  collision  is  all  a  matter  of 
chance  it  is  clear  that  a  molecule  is  sometimes 
nearly  stopped,  sometimes  impelled  faster,  and 
sometimes  merely  deflected.  Thus  they  are 
moving  with  all  possible  speeds,  but  the  great 
majority  are  moving  with  about  the  average 
speed  of  the  whole  crowd. 

According  to  this  theory,  the  pressure  of  a 
gas  is  merely  the  cannonade  of  millions  of 
molecules  against  the  side  of  the  vessel  con- 
taining the  gas;  as  the  number  of  impacts 
per  square  inch  and  per  second  is  enormous, 
the  effect  is  indistinguishable  from  that  of  con- 
tinuous pressure. 

We  are  accustomed  to  make  statistical 
inquiries  into  any  question  affecting  groups 
of  men,  and  the  same  method  has  to  be  ap- 
plied to  the  collisions  of  the  molecules  of  a 
gas.  These  very  complex  statistics  have  been 
profoundly  studied  by  Maxwell,  Clausius,  and 
others,  and  they  have  shown  how  to  compute 
from  the  temperature  and  density  of  a  gas  the 
average  velocity  of  its  molecules,  the  average 
frequency  of  collision,  and  the  average  distance 
traveled  between  successive  collisions. 

It  will  not  be  possible  to  go  into  these 
difficult  questions  at  present,  and  it  must  be  ac- 
cepted that  a  gas  is  actually  composed  of  con- 
stantly colliding  particles  or  molecules.  But 
when  we  look  at  a  gas  from  this  point  of  view 
we  must  take  care  not  to  confuse  the  single 
molecule  with  the  gas  of  which  it  forms  part. 
Gas  is  merely  our  word  for  a  crowd  of  mole- 
cules, much  as  nation  is  a  word  for  a  crowd  of 
men.  National  history  is  no  more  to  be  learned 


from  the  doings  and  character  of  a  single  man 
than  the  properties  of  a  gas  are  to  be  learned 
from  the  doings  and  character  of  a  single  mole- 
cule. In  "  gas  "  and  in  "  nation  "  the  relation- 
ship of  all  to  all  is  involved. 

Now  that  the  internal  structure  of  common 
air  has  been  explained,  let  us  examine  a  little 
more  closely  its  relation  to  ourselves. 

If  we  were  to  shrink  to  a  ten-millionth  of  our 
actual  size,  how  different  would  air  seem !  It 
would  then  seem  to  consist  of  cannon-balls 
flying  about  in  all  directions,  at  rare  intervals, 
and  at  a  prodigious  rate.  And  yet  the  supposed 
change  in  us  would  not  have  affected  the  na- 
ture of  air,  and  it  would  still  be  a  continuous 
gas  to  our  former  senses.  Thus  the  description 
we  should  give  of  a  gas  is  all  a  matter  of  the 
relative  scales  of  largeness  of  ourselves  and  of 
the  gas. 

Now  this  theory  of  a  gas  affords  the  idea 
by  which  I  seek  to  reconcile  the  conflicting 
theories  of  the  evolution  of  stellar  systems.  My 
suggestion  is  that  celestial  nebulse  are  drawn 
on  so  large  a  scale  that  meteorites  may  be 
treated  as  molecules,  and  that  the  collisions 
of  meteorites  are  so  frequent  that  the  whole 
swarm  will  behave  as  though  it  were  a  gas. 
The  relationship  of  us  men  to  this  coarse- 
grained meteoric  medium  is  exactly  that  of  the 
ideal  pygmies  to  common  air. 

But  it  is  not  enough  to  make  such  a  sugges- 
tion as  this ;  the  details  of  the  idea  must  be 
examined.  We  must  consider  what  may  be 
supposed  to  happen  when  two  stones  clash  to- 
gether, and  must  see  whether  they  can  come 
into  collision  often  enough  to  make  the  swarm 
into  a  kind  of  gas.     • 

In  comparing  the  behavior  of  meteorites  to 
the  molecules  of  a  gas  it  will  naturally  occur 
to  inquire  whether  they  can  be  supposed  to 
possess  that  high  degree  of  elasticity  which  is 
necessary  for  a  kinetic  theory.  I  believe  that 
this  question  may  be  answered  in  the  affirma- 
tive. Meteoric  stones  move  with  speeds  which 
are  very  great  according  to  our  terrestrial  no- 
tions ;  and  even  without  Mr.  Lockyer's  direct 
spectroscopic  evidence  we  could  not  doubt 
that  enough  heat  is  generated  in  a  collision  to 
volatilize  part  of  the  solid  matter  of  each  stone, 
and  to  make  the  gas  incandescent.  Now  a 
sudden  generation  of  gas  at  the  point  of  con- 
tact of  the  two  stones  would  be  exactly  like 
the  explosion  of  a  charge  of  gunpowder  be- 
tween them,  and  they  would  be  blown  apart 
with  great  violence.  As  far  as  regards  their 
velocities  after  collision  the  result  would  be 
much  the  same  as  though  they  were  highly 
elastic,  although  this  virtual  elasticity  is  of 
quite  a  different  character  from  that  tendency 
of  a  strained  solid  to  recover  its  shape,  which 
constitutes  ordinary  elasticity.    I  may  call  to 


862   ON  METEORITES  AND  THE  HISTORY  OF  STELLAR  SYSTEMS. 


mind,  as  an  example  of  an  abnormal  elasticity 
of  somewhat  the  same  sort,  how  a  leaden  bul- 
let bounds  from  the  surface  of  the  sea,  although 
lead  is  a  very  inelastic  solid  and  water  is  not 
solid  at  all. 

It  is  not  claimed  that  these  considerations 
prove  absolutely  that  two  meteorites  would 
bound  from  each  other  as  if  they  were  very 
elastic,  but  it  seems  highly  probable  that  they 
would  do  so,  and  the  matter  is  not  susceptible 
of  strict  proof.  But  granting  the  elasticity, 
there  is  another  point  to  consider. 

If  two  stones  meet,  the  chance  of  their  frac- 
ture is  greater  if  they  are  great  than  if  they  are 
small,  and  the  breakage  may  go  on  only  until 
a  certain  size,  dependent  on  the  average  ve- 
locity of  the  meteorites,  is  reached,  after  which 
it  may  become  unimportant. 

When  the  gases  generated  on  collision  cool 
they  will  condense  into  a  metallic  rain,  and  this 
may  fuse  with  old  meteorites.  Some  actual 
meteorites  show  signs  of  the  fusion  of  many 
distinct  nuclei.  Thus  there  are  both  abstract 
reason  and  direct  evidence  in  support  of  occa- 
sional fusions.  The  mean  size  of  meteorites  in 
a  swarm  probably  depends  on  the  balance  be- 
tween the  opposing  forces  of  breakage  and 
fusion. 

No  doubt  when  two  stones  meet  directly 
each  is  shattered  to  fragments.  But  glancing 
collisions  must  be  indefinitely  more  frequent, 
and  in  these  we  may  suppose  that  fracture 
is  comparatively  rare,  and  virtual  elasticity 
great. 

The  possible  frequency  of  fracture  undoubt- 
edly does  present  a  difficulty  in  the  theory, 
for  it  would  seem  as  though  the  whole  swarm 
of  stones  must  gradually  degrade  into  dust. 
There  must  be  some  way  out  of  this  difficulty, 
for  meteorites  of  considerable  size  fall  upon 
the  earth,  and  unless  Mr.  Lockyer  has  misin- 
terpreted the  spectroscopic  evidence,  the  neb- 
ulae do  now  consist  of  meteorites. 

I  hold  that  these  considerations  justify  us  in 
maintaining  a  rough  similarity  between  me- 
teoric stones  and  the  molecules  of  a  gas,  as 
far  as  regards  the  actual  collisions.  If  this  is 
so,  what  is  called  the  temperature  of  a  gas 
must  be  translated  as  meaning  the  average 
energy  of  motion  of  the  meteorites. 

We  must  now  go  on  to  consider  how  often 
meteorites  collide,  and  try  to  discover  whether 
a  swarm  of  meteorites  possesses  a  fine  enough 
texture  to  permit  the  applicability  of  the  theory. 
For  this  part  of  the  discussion  numerical  cal- 
culations are  necessary.  Calculations  require 
numerical  data,  and  these  can  only  be  derived 
from  a  known  system,  and  of  course  the  only 
one  known  with  any  precision  is  the  solar 
system.  The  fineness  of  grain  is  obviously  in- 
dependent of  the  amount  of  flattening  of  the 


nebula  which  arises  from  rotation.  In  order 
therefore  to  simplify  the  matter,  and  to  con- 
sider one  thing  at  a  time,  the  nebula  is  sup- 
posed to  be  one  in  which  there  is  no  rotation. 

The  weight  of  the  sun  in  pounds  is  four  with 
thirty  zeros  after  it,  and  I  suppose  the  sun  to  be 
broken  up  into  that  number  of  meteorites,  each 
weighing  one  pound.  If  the  meteorites  are  sup- 
posed to  be  of  iron  their  exact  size  is  known, 
because  the  dimensions  of  a  pound  of  iron  are 
known.  This  supposition  as  to  the  weight  and 
size  of  the  meteorites  is  merely  adopted  as  a 
type,  but  it  suffices  for  our  present  purpose. 
These  one-pound  iron-stones  are  to  be  distrib- 
uted in  a  swarm  extending  beyond  the  pres- 
ent orbit  of  Neptune.  To  give  numerical  pre- 
cision, let  us  suppose  that  the  swarm  extends 
half  as  far  again  as  Neptune's  orbit ;  that  is 
to  say,  let  it  extend  to  forty-five  times  the  dis- 
tance of  the  earth  from  the  sun. 

In  this  condition  the  nebula  is  of  extreme 
tenuity,  and  if  the  stones  are  not  then  too 
sparse  to  make  the  swarm  behave  like  a  gas,  it 
will,  a  fortiori,  behave  like  a  gas  when  the  neb- 
ula has  shrunk  and  the  stones  are  more  closely 
packed.  The  supposition  made  as  to  the  ex- 
tension of  the  solar  swarm,  therefore,  puts  the 
theory  to  a  severe  test. 

In  the  case  of  a  town,  density  of  population 
means  the  number  of  people  to  the  square 
mile,  and  for  meteorites  what  we  may  still  call 
the  density  of  population  is  the  number  to  the 
cubic  mile.  The  swarm  is  not  supposed  to  be 
rotating,  and  is  therefore  a  perfect  globe,  and 
the  layers  of  equal  density  of  population  are 
also  spheres. 

The  stones  will  not  be  evenly  distributed  in 
space,  but  the  density  of  population  will  be 
much  greater  towards  the  middle  than  towards 
the  outside.  The  reason  of  this  is  that  every 
stone  is  attracted  towards  the  middle,  and  is 
only  prevented  from  yielding  to  the  tendency 
by  the  blows  it  receives  from  its  neighbors. 
Think  of  a  crowd  struggling  for  tickets  at  a 
railway  station,  and  you  have  a  picture  of 
what  happens.  The  men  squeeze  and  push 
and  sway  about,  but  the  crowd  remains  of 
about  the  same  density  at  each  distance  from 
its  middle.  So  in  the  swarm  the  dance  of  the 
meteorites  is  incessant,  but  it  arranges  itself 
automatically  into  a  steady  condition,  in  which 
the  density  of  population  has  no  tendency  to 
shift. 

It  is  natural  to  ask  why  the  stones  should  be 
moving  at  all,  and  how  they  acquired  their 
great  speed.  This  is  a  question  that  impera- 
tively demands  an  answer,  and  we  are  able  to 
answer  it  with  certainty.  They  derive  their 
speed  from  gravitation;  they  have  fallen  in 
from  a  great  distance  towards  a  center  of  ag- 
gregation.   A  description  of  the  way  in  which 


ON  METEORITES  AND  THE  HISTORY  OE  STELIAR  SYSTEMS.  863 


they  may  have  come  together  will  make  it 
clear  why  they  are  moving,  and  will  also  give 
the  reader  some  idea  of  how  the  actual  veloc- 
ity may  be  calculated  in  a  swarm  of  given 
mass  and  size. 

Imagine  that  somewhere  in  space  there  is 
an  aggregation  of  meteorites, — no  matter  how 
it  got  there, —  and  conceive  a  stone  released 
from  a  state  of  rest  at  a  very  great  distance. 
Under  the  attraction  of  gravitation  the  stone 
falls  towards  the  center  of  aggregation,  and 
on  reaching  the  confines  of  the  swarm  it  will 
have  acquired  a  certain  velocity.  It  then 
penetrates  the  swarm  for  some  uncertain  dis- 
tance, until  it  happens  to  strike  another  me- 
teorite. Henceforth  its  path  is  zigzag,  as  it 
happens  to  strike,  and  we  need  not  suppose 
ourselves  to  watch  it  any  longer,  since  it  has 
become  one  of  the  swarm.  It  is,  however, 
important  to  remark  that  the  supposed  visitant 
from  outside  space  has  imported  energy  of 
motion  into  the  system,  which  energy  it  grad- 
ually communicates  to  its  neighbors  by  colli- 
sions; it  has  also  increased  the  mass  of  the 
swarm.  When  another  stone  is  allowed  to  fall 
in,  since  it  is  attracted  by  a  slightly  greater 
mass,  it  arrives  at  the  swarm  with  slightly 
greater  speed  than  the  first.  So  if  we  imagine 
the  swarm  to  be  increased  by  the  addition  of 
stone  after  stone,  we  see  that  in  the  course  of 
accretion  the  energy  of  agitation  of  its  con- 
stituent meteorites  gradually  increases.  Also 
the  volume  of  the  globe  throughout  which  (if 
anywhere)  the  swarm  possesses  the  mechani- 
cal properties  of  a  gas  is  at  the  same  time 
gradually  increased.  We  must  suppose  that 
at  length  all  the  stones  in  that  part  of  space 
are  exhausted,  the  materials  of  the  nebula  are 
collected,  and  it  only  remains  for  them  to  work 
out  their  future  fate. 

By  this  sort  of  reasoning  we  find  out  how 
fast  the  stones  are  moving,  but  it  is  proper  to 
add  that  an  important  correction  has  to  be  ap- 
plied to  allow  for  the  fact  that  at  each  col- 
lision some  speed  is  lost.  In  the  process  of 
settling  into  the  steady  condition  each  stone 
retains  only  seven-tenths  of  the  velocity  it 
would  have  had  if  it  were  a  fresh  arrival  from 
space. 

It  will  make  no  material  difference  in  these 
results  by  whatever  process  the  stones  were 
brought  together,  and  this  account  which  I 
have  just  given  of  the  formation  of  a  swarm 
is  not  intended  as  a  contribution  to  its  history, 
but  is  only  meant  to  render  intelligible  the 
mechanical  principles  involved,  and  to  show 
in  a  general  way  how  the  matter  may  be  sub- 
jected to  calculation. 

By  such  a  line  of  argument  as  this  I  found 
that,  when  the  solar  swarm  extended  half  as 
far  again  as  -the  planet  Neptune,  in  the  central 


region  the  stones  were  moving  at  an  average 
rate  of  three  miles  a  second, —  two  hundred 
times  as  fast  as  a  fast  train, — but  that  in  the 
outer  portion  of  the  swarm  the  velocity  was 
less. 

We  have  now  to  find  out  how  often  the 
stones  came  into  collision,  how  far  they  traveled 
between  collisions,  and  whether  the  collisions 
were  frequent  enough  to  allow  us  to  consider 
the  whole  nebula  as  a  kind  of  gas,  as  is  de- 
manded by  the  nebular  hypothesis. 

To  how  small  a  pygmy  would  air  still  be  air  ? 
The  answer  is  that  the  pygmy  must  be  just 
large  enough  to  be  struck  so  often  that  he 
loses  the  sensation  of  the  individual  blows,  and 
is  only  aware  of  their  average  effect.  It  will 
insure  this  if  he  is  struck  hundreds  or  thou- 
sands of  times  in  the  average  interval  between 
two  collisions  of  a  molecule  of  air ;  or  we  may 
say  that  his  bulk  must  be  great  enough  to 
contain  thousands  of  molecules,  or  his  length 
thousands  of  times  as  great  as  the  average 
path  traversed  by  a  molecule  between  two 
successive  collisions.  These  conditions  are 
amply  satisfied  in  the  relationship  of  the  small- 
est microscopic  animalcule  to  our  air. 

It  must,  however,  be  a  giant  who  would  not 
feel  the  individual  blows  of  meteorites,  but  only 
realize  their  average  effects.  If  we  might  con- 
sider the  nebula,  as  a  whole,  to  be  a  living  be- 
ing, we  might  say  that  if  she  is  to  behave  like 
a  gas  she  must  realize  herself  as  a  gas,  and 
so  she  must  be  the  giant  to  whose  perceptions 
the  meteoric  nebula  is  to  be  a  gas ;  hence  the 
giant  must  not  be  larger  than  the  nebula  itself. 

It  would  not  be  easy  to  explain  the  exact 
reasoning  by  which  a  comparison  is  made  be- 
tween the  dimensions  of  the  giant  and  the  text- 
ure of  the  nebula  at  every  part  of  itself.  It 
must  suffice  to  say  that  the  comparison  is  best 
clothed  in  a  form  which  may  appear  some- 
thing quite  different,  but  which  is  really  sub- 
stantially the  same. 

Except  at  the  moment  of  a  collision,  a  me- 
teorite is  like  a  very  small  planet,  and  accord- 
ingly moves  in  a  curved  orbit,  but  at  each 
collision  it  starts  in  a  new  orbit. 

I  say,  then,  that  the  nebula  will  behave  suffi- 
ciently like  a  gas  to  allow  the  nebular  hy- 
pothesis to  be  true,  if  the  average  path  of  a 
meteorite  between  two  collisions  is  so  short 
that  the  bit  of  orbit  described  departs  very 
little  from  a  straight  line. 

We  now  at  length  come  to  the  numerical 
values  to  which  we  have  been  tending,  and 
shall  see  how  often  the  stones  of  the  solar 
nebula  came  into  collision  with  one  another 
when  the  nebula  extended  in  a  swarm  of  one- 
pound  iron  meteorites  half  as  far  again  from 
its  center  as  the  present  distance  of  Neptune 
from  the  sun. 


864   ON  METEORITES  AND  THE  HISTORY  OF  STEILAR  SYSTEMS. 


In  this  case  I  find  that  at  the  middle  of 
the  swarm  a  meteorite  would  on  the  average 
come  into  collision  every  thirteen  hours,  and 
would  travel  140,000  miles  between  collisions ; 
at  the  distance  of  the  small  planets,  called  the 
asteroids,  it  would  collide  every  seventeen 
hours  and  would  travel  190,000  miles  between; 
at  the  distance  of  Uranus  the  collisions  would 
be  at  intervals  of  twenty-five  days,  and  the  path 
six  million  miles ;  and  lastly,  at  the  distance 
of  Neptune,  the  interval  would  be  190  days 
and  the  path  28,000,000  miles. 

I  have  said  that  the  criterion  we  have  to 
apply  depends  on  the  amount  of  curvature  of 
the  average  path  of  a  stone  between  two  suc- 
cessive collisions.  Now  it  may  be  shown  that 
the  amount  of  departure  from  straightness  is 
greater  the  farther  we  go  from  the  middle  of 
the  swarm;  and  I  find  that  even  at  the  dis- 
tance of  Neptune  the  collisions  are,  speaking 
relatively,  so  frequent  that  gravity  only  suffices 
to  draw  the  meteorite  aside  from  the  straight 
path  by  one  sixty-sixth  of  the  path  it  has  trav- 
ersed. The  fraction  one  sixty-sixth  is  then  the 
value  of  the  criterion  which  was  to  be  applied. 
Now  one  sixty-sixth  is  so  small  a  fraction  that 
it  may  be  concluded  that  the  meteoric  swarm 
passes  the  proposed  test,  notwithstanding  that 
the  great  extension  which  has  been  attributed 
to  the  nebula  strains  the  hypothesis  severely. 

It  follows,  therefore,  that  if  meteorites  possess 
virtual  elasticity,  and  if  breakages  are  counter- 
balanced by  fusions,  then  a  swarm  of  meteorites 
provides  a  gas-like  medium  of  a  fine  enough 
structure  to  satisfy  the  demands  of  the  nebular 
hypothesis. 

Some  such  numerical  examination  as  the 
foregoing  is  necessary  in  order  to  assure  us 
that  the  quality  of  a  gas  can  have  been  im- 
parted to  a  nebula  in  the  suggested  way,  and 
so  to  lift  the  hypothesis  out  of  the  realms  of 
mere  conjecture. 

We  may  conclude  from  this  discussion  that 
it  is  possible  to  justify  the  contention  that  the 
meteoric  theory  is  reconcilable  with  the  neb- 
ular hypothesis,  and  that  we  may  accordingly 
hold  the  truth  of  both  of  them  at  the  same 
time. 

If  space  permitted  I  might  go  on  to  con- 
sider some  of  the  conclusions  fairly  deducible 
from  this  view  of  a  nebula,  but  it  must  suffice 
to  say  that  this  theory  seems  likely  to  prove 
fruitful  in  the  further  elucidation  of  this  com- 
plex and  necessarily  speculative  subject. 

Up  to  this  time  we  have  been  occupied  with 
proving,  or  rendering  probable,  a  modification 
in  Laplace's  theory.  But  it  would  hardly  be 
satisfactory  to  leave  the  matter  at  this  point. 
I  wish  it  were  possible  to  gain  an  insight  into 
the  origin  and  previous  history  of  these  stones, 
but  on  these  mysteries  I  have  no  suggestion 


to  make.  It  is,  however,  possible  to  see  pretty 
clearly  what  happened  after  the  nebular  stage, 
and  how  all  this  bears  on  the  state  of  things 
of  which  we  are  witnesses  to-day. 

At  the  various  centers  of  condensation  which 
we  now  call  sun,  planets,  and  satellites  the 
swarm  of  meteorites  became  denser  and  denser. 
The  collisions  were  too  frequent  to  let  the 
gases  cool  and  condense  again,  and  thus  by 
degrees  the  meteorites  were  entirely  volatilized. 
Thus  round  these  centers  we  should  have  at 
length  a  mass  of  glowing  gas,  and  towards  the 
middle  fluids  and  solids.  All  this  must  have 
occurred  comparatively  early  in  the  case  of 
the  sun,  later  at  the  planets,  and  last  at  the 
satellites. 

Outside  of  these  condensations  there  were 
numbers  of  free  meteorites,  but  the  majority 
of  the  stones  which  formed  the  swarm  in  primi- 
tive times  were  already  absorbed,  and  the  ab- 
sorption still  went  on  gradually. 

The  collisions  among  the  free  meteorites 
became  rarer,  because  they  were  scattered 
more  sparsely;  and  less  violent,  because  at  each 
successive  collision  some  relative  motion  was 
lost.  Finally  the  collisions  were  nearly  an- 
nulled. The  residue  of  the  meteoric  swarm 
then  consisted  of  sparse  flights  of  meteorites, 
moving  in  streams.  Such  streams  give  us  no 
evidence  of  their  existence,  except  under  spe- 
cial circumstances. 

The  zodiacal  light  is  a  lens-shaped  lumi- 
nosity, seen  in  the  east  or  west  shortly  before 
sunrise  or  after  sunset — not  commonly  in  the 
latitude  of  England,  but  frequently  in  the 
south.  It  is  probably  due  to  the  reflection  of 
sunlight  from  millions  of  meteorites  which  have 
not  yet  been  swallowed  by  the  sun. 

Again,  if  a  stream  of  meteorites  moves  in  a 
very  elliptic  orbit,  at  one  part  of  its  course  it 
passes  near  the  sun.  In  this  part  of  its  orbit 
the  flight  is  packed  into  a  smaller  space  than 
before,  so  that  collisions  are  largely  multiplied. 
Moreover  the  flight  dashes  through  a  region 
thickly  peopled  with  the  meteorites  which 
make  the  zodiacal  light.  It  has  been  proved 
that  there  is  an  intimate  relationship  between 
comets  and  flights  of  meteorites,  and  Mr. 
Lockyer  suggests  that  the  luminosity  of  com- 
ets is  caused  jointly  by  the  collisions  internal 
to  the  flight  of  stones,  and  by  those  which  oc- 
cur as  the  flight  plows  its  way  through  the 
zodiacal  light. 

But  meteorites  are  still  frequent  far  outside 
of  the  zodiacal  light,  although  there  may  not 
be  enough  to  reflect  sunlight  to  a  visible  de- 
gree. Of  this  we  have  familiar  evidence  in 
the  shooting  star. 

The  orbits  of  several  streams  of  meteorites 
are  known,  and  each  year,  as  on  certain  days 
the  earth  crosses  those  orbits,  their  existence  is 


ON  METEORITES  AND  THE  HISTORY  OF  STELLAR  SYSTEMS.  865 


■■■'■■.,■:.■.':■■     ■■         :■:::■■.:.■■■■■;■.■-■■■.■■.■  ■,,; 

iiillllllil 


,....■....■.■■  .■  ...       .  ■  ... 

m+m? :  '^*:?:  -m^  ->"P-r  ms-m 


NEBULA     IN     ANDROMEDA. 


proved  by  volleys  of  falling  stars,  which  emanate 
from  known  radiant  points  in  the  heavens. 

But  these  are  the  dregs  and  sawdust  of  the 
solar  system,  and  merely  serve  to  give  us  a 
memento  of  the  myriads  which  existed  in  early 
days,  before  the  sun  and  the  planets  and  their 
satellites  were  born. 

In  this  paper  I  have  attempted  to  touch 
on  only  a  few  points  in  a  large  subject.  The 
attempt  to  reconstruct  the  history  of  stars  and 
planets  involves  ideas  grand  in  themselves; 
but  the  events  to  be  recorded  in  that  history 
relate  to  a  past  so  remote  that  our  conclusions 
cannot  but  be  speculative.  Thus  the  value  of 


the  investigation  of  which  I  have  given  an 
account  will  appear  very  different  to  different 
minds.  To  some  men  of  science  it  will  stand 
condemned  as  altogether  too  speculative; 
others  will  think  that  it  is  better  to  risk  error 
in  the  chance  of  winning  truth.  To  me,  at 
least,  it  seems  that  the  line  of  thought  flows 
in  a  true  channel ;  that  it  may  help  to  give  a 
meaning  to  the  observations  of  the  astronomer 
and  of  the  spectroscopist ;  and  that  many  in- 
teresting problems  may  perhaps  be  solved  with 
sufficient  completeness  to  throw  further  light 
on  the  evolution  of  nebulas  and  of  planetary 
systems. 

G.  H.  Darwin. 


Vol.  XL.— 113. 


AN  ARTIST'S  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


BY   JOHN    LA    FARGE. 


WITH    PICTURES    BY   THE    AUTHOR. 


SAKA,  September  18. — We  have 
come  to  Osaka  to  spend  an  entire 
day  in  bric-a-brac :  to  arrive 
early  at  the  big  shop ;  to  have 
tea  offered  us  in  the  little  back 
room  of  the  merchant,  which 
looks  out  and  steps  out  upon  his  garden  of  a 
few  trees  and  little  pebbly  walks  and  some 
stone  lanterns  —  a  garden  that  is  for  us,  which 
his  own  may  or  may  not  be.  Then  cigars, 
and  pieces  of  porcelain  brought  from  the  store- 
houses ;  then  more  tea,  and  an  inspection  of 
the  many  rooms  full  of  odds  and  ends.  Then 
more  tea,  and  more  pieces  slowly  and  reluc- 
tantly drawn  from  the  storehouse,  as  if  we 
could  not  be  so  unreasonable ;  then  lunch  and 
tea,  always  in  the  house;  then  adjournment 
to  the  upper  rooms,  when  the  hundreds  of 
kakemonos  are  unrolled,  one  after  the  other, 
to  a  crescendo  of  exasperation.  Then  re-dis- 
cussion of  matters  below  stairs,  and  visits  to 
other  rooms  full  of  wares  not  spoken  of  be- 
fore; then  more  tea,  and  the  last  pieces  grudg- 


KIOTO     IN     FOG  —  MORNING. 


ingly  produced  from  the  same  occult  store- 
houses; purchases  amid  final  bewilderment; 
tea  again,  and  departure. 

We  had  come  to  Osaka  on  our  way  back 
from  Nara,  and  we  again  return  to  Kioto, 
which  we  left  three  days  ago.  The  trip  to 
Nara  was  fatiguing  and  delightful,  and  I  should 

866 


like  to  recall  it  for  you,  but  I  have  no  time  and 
have  made  no  notes ;  and,  besides,  my  memo- 
ries are  again  beginning  to  merge  one  into  an- 
other, and  they  themselves  to  blend  with  what 
I  see  in  Kioto.  But  certainly  something  floats 
over,  which  a  few  lines  can  give. 

We  were  out  in  our  kurumas  early  in  the 
morning,  each  with  three  runners.  We  found 
Oye  San  waiting  for  us  patiently,  outside  at 
Inari,  where  he  had  expected  us  from  the  earli- 
est morning.  It  is  from  him  that  I  get  the 
little  clay  fox,  given  me  for  good  luck,  in  a 
partnership  with  the  one  he  retained.  I  need 
not  speak  of  the  heat.  The  roads  were  dusty 
and  dry  where  they  were  not  muddy  and  wet, 
in  the  country  paths  we  took.  We  passed  the 
edge  of  the  city,  which  ends  suddenly  in  rice 
fields,  occupying  what  were  once  streets  and 
houses.  For  Kioto  is  only  a  part  of  what  it 
has  been ;  and  even  when  it  was  larger,  not  so 
many  years  back,  it  must  still  have  been  only 
the  remainder  of  a  greater  past. 

As  we  get  into  what  is  really  the  country, 

passing  from  broad 

gjjjjtt^  roads    to    narrow 

,  -r     ,,,  tracks,  our  runners 

sometimes      lifted 

;>  I --  w-  us  over   soft,  wet 

r  places,  or  bumped 

^^  ---"-' i.;-:      us      over    narrow 

ditches,  or  guided 

BI^B  us5  at  faU  tilt,  on 

the  edges  of  the 
stones  that  are 
bridges.  Some- 
m  times     more     pa- 

tiently we  halted 
to  allow  the  files 
of  black  bulls  to 
meander  past  us, 
dragging  loads  on 
wheels  or  carrying 
bales. 

Rarely  we  met 
peasants,  and  then 
usually  women,  sometimes  with  horses  of  a 
larger  breed  than  that  we  saw  last  month  in  the 
east.  Once,  among  rice  fields  in  the  basin  of  a 
circle  of  low  hills,  I  saw  the  grove  which  covers 
the  tomb  of  some  divine  emperor  of  early 
times.  As  we  circled  around  the  slope,  far  away 
from  this  solitary  oasis  of  trees,  we  could  see  the 


4MiW 


AN  ARTIST'S  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


867 


PEASANT  CARRYING  FODDER,  AND  BULL  CARRYING  LOAD. 


grove  on  every  side,  finished  and  complete 
and  rounded  by  time,  as  if  sculptured  in  na- 
ture from  some  of  those  sketches  that  Japan- 
ese artists  make  for  carving  when  they  give  all 
four  sides,  and  the  bottom  and  the  top,  on  a 
single  page.  Nothing  else,  but  perhaps  some 
uninscribed  stone,  marks  the  tombs  of  em- 
perors, dotted  about  the  plains  of  this  oldest 
province  of  Japan.  Strange  enough,  even  in 
this  strange  country,  is  this  evidence  of  the 
extreme  of  simplicity  in  death,  as  in  life,  of  the 
oldest  line  of  Oriental  despots,  absolute  lords 
and  masters,  ever-present  patterns  of  the  deity, 
who  make  this  one  solitary  exception  of  sim- 
plicity in  history.  It  is  as  if  Japan  itself  was 
their  tomb,  as  if  they  passed  back  into  the 
nature  of  which  their  divine  ancestors  were 
gods  —  the  gods  of  the  sun  and  of  the  earth. 

Blue  hills  and  pagodas,  and  temples  in  the 
distance,  and  we  came  into  Nara,  which  is 
but  a  breath,  a  ruin,  a  remnant  of  what  it  was. 
I  had  been  told  so  often  of  the  place,  as  a 
ruin  among  rice  fields,  that  I  was  unprepared 
for  the  beautiful  lay-out  of  what  remains  — 
for  the  well-planned  roads  and  avenues,  such 
as  may  well  have  belonged  to  some  great  capi- 
tal, such  as  would  have  been  heard  of  by 
travelers  who,  returning  in  days  of  Charlemagne 
from  other  Eastern  cities  to  Byzantium,  might 
have  talked  of  Zipango. 

Nothing  remains  but  a  few  buildings,  be- 
longing to  temples,  but  their  approaches  are 
splendid,  even  though  there  be  often  nothing 
more  than  the  general  grading  and  disposition. 
I  should  have  written  to  you  from  our  inn, 
where  I  looked,  in  the  evening  and  morning, 


towards  the  slopes  of  distant  hills,  and  heard, 
out  of  the  darkness,  the  sound  of  the  great 
bell  which  rang  first  some  eleven  centuries  ago, 
and  the  singing  of  the  frogs  in  the  fields  which 
were  once  a  city.  It  is  now  too  late  to  begin 
to  describe  anything  of  what  I  saw;  anything 
of  temple  buildings,  from  one  of  which  to 
another  we  wandered,  nor  of  the  old  statues 
and  relics,  nor  of  the  religious  dances  of  young 
girls  which  we  looked  at,  standing  or  sitting 
near  the  balustrade  of  the  dancing-shed,  while 
inside,  in  the  greater  shade,  they  moved  to  the 
music  and  hymns  of  the  priests  —  red  and 
white  figures,  with  long  tresses  of  black  hair 
and  chaplets  of  flowers  ;  with  faces  all  painted 
white,  and  brilliant,  indifferent  eyes  that  saw 
me  sketching  clearly,  however,  and  hands  that 
waved,  in  a  cadence  of  routine,  fans  and 
bunches  of  little  bells  with  long  streamers  of 
violet,  blue,  green,  red,  and  white.  Nor  of  the 
great  park-like  avenue,  that  made  me  think  of 
England,  through  which  still  wander  tame  deer, 
as  did  those  that,  long  ago,  served  as  models 
for  Okio  the  painter.  I  fear  that  what  I  have 
seen  will  remain  only  as  an  embroidery  upon 
the  stuff  that  my  memory  tries  to  unroll. 

It  was  late  on  a  sweltering  afternoon  when 
we  managed  to  leave  Nara,  and  we  reached 
Horiuji  for  too  short  a  visit ;  for  we  were  due 
in  Osaka  the  next  day.  We  wandered  in  the 
late  afternoon  and  evening  through  its  courts, 
kindly  received  by  the  priests,  for  whom  we  had 
the  recommendation  of  a  friendly  name. 

At  least  I  had  time  to  see  the  Golden  Hall, 
one  of  the  earliest  buildings,  now  more  than 
twelve  centuries  and  a  half  old,  and  the  noble 


868 


AN  ARTIST'S  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


PEASANT     WOMAN  —  THRESHER. 

paintings  on  its  walls  attributed  to  some  fa- 
mous sculptor  of  that  day.  Their  placid  ele- 
gance, the  refinement  of  their  lines,  their  breath 
of  religious  peace,  explained  those  claims  to  a 
solemn  and  glorious  past  for  Japan,  which  look 
like  a  conventional  exaggeration  in  a  to-day 
that  is  delicate  and  small  and  dry. 

The  recall  of  Greek  perfection  was  not 
forced,  and  while  still  vaguely  unwilling  to 
confuse  one  excellence  by  referring  to  another, 
I  could  not  help  again  thinking  of  the  Greek 
and  of  Tanagra  images,  when  I  saw,  by  the 
light  of  the  torches,  in  the  great  pagoda,  as 
old  as  the  great  hall,  groups  modeled  in  clay 
by  the  same  old  sculptor,  whose  name  is  given 
to  the  paintings  —  Amida  and  Kwan-on  and 
Monju,  and  the  scenes  of  the  death  of  Bud- 
dha. An  admirable  antiquity  was  to  be  the 
continuous  impression  of  the  evening,  carried 
out  into  our  last  looks  at  the  Treasure  House. 
Its  very  air  of  an  old  New  England  barn  or 
crib  raised  upon  posts,  its  rough  red  painting, 
the  high  wooden  steps  of  entrance,  the  gigan- 
tic wooden  latch-key  with  which  the  guardian 
priest  fumbled  at  its  door,  gave  the  note  of 
extreme  early  simplicity  —  the  feeling  of  a  per- 


sisting indifference    to    the    adornments    and 
changes  of  centuries  of  fashions. 

It  has  been  useless  all  along  to  detail  any- 
thing, but  the  impressions  of  the  last  things 
seen  remain  with  me  as  types  of  all.  For 
there  hung  on  the  old  walls  of  the  Treasure 
House  a  framed  banner,  once  carried  in  an- 
cient battles,  its  brocaded  pattern  exactly 
that  which  we  know  in  Babylonian  art :  the 
circles  with  the  lilies  between,  and  in  each  cir- 
cle the  Assyrian  monarch  struggling  with  lions 
—  imitation  or  original  of  coeval  Sassanian 
Persia,  I  suppose,  but  housed  here  all  these 
thousand  years,  and  in  its  persistence  of  pat- 
tern connecting  with  that  heavy  and  oppres- 
sive antiquity  of  Nineveh  which  knows  nothing 
older  than  itself  for  our  story,  except  oldest 
Egypt. 

But  I  was  yet  to  find  something  old  that 
would  be  directly  meant  for  me ;  a  painting  by 
the  legendary  painter  of  Japan,  the  Cimabue 
of  a  thousand  years  ago,  inheritor  or  student 
of  still  older  Chinese  art  —  Kose-no-Kanaoka. 

The  painting  is  still  in  fair  condition,  though 
injuries  of  time  reveal,  as  usual,  the  methods 
used  by  the  painter.  And  it  was  a  delight  to 
me,  in  this  mood  of  veneration  for  past  great- 
ness, to  recognize  in  the  veilings  and  sequences 
of  this  painting  of  the  lotus  methods  I  had 
used  myself,  working  at  all  this  distance  of 
time  and  place,  when  I  had  tried  to  render 
the  tones  and  the  transparency  of  our  fairy 
water-lily ;  and  I  know  you  will  forgive  the  su- 
perstitious sense  of  approval  of  my  re-inven- 
tions from  this  indefinite  past  of  art. 

We  wandered  among  the  buildings  until 
night  had  set  in ;  we  signed  on  the  register  of 
visitors,  and  contributed  a  small  sum  to  the 
repairs  of  these  decaying  relics  of  the  great- 
ness of  Japan;  we  received  some  little  gifts 
of  impressions  and  prints  in  acknowledgment, 
and  then  rested  in  the  neighboring  inn,  waited 
upon  by  fat,  good-natured  tea- girls,  most  cer- 
tainly belonging  to  to-day. 

We  had  now  to  take  a  long  night  ride,  and 
at  length  we  rushed  out  into  the  moonlight, 
our  fourteen  runners  appearing  and  disappear- 
ing as  we  came  in  and  out  of  the  shadows  in 
the  long  procession  of  our  train. 

We  whirled  past  the  houses  of  the  small  town, 
indiscreetly  close  to  the  paper  screens,  lighted 
from  within,  against  which  were  profiled  the 
shadows  of  faces,  sometimes  with  pipes  or  cups 
lifted  to  their  lips  or  the  outlines  of  coiffures 
piled  up  on  the  head  —  all  pictures  more  Jap- 
anese than  their  very  originals;  then  between 
rounded  hills  on  which  stood  masses  of  maple 
trees ;  then  near  to  empty  spaces  of  water ; 
then  sank  into  dark  hollows,  at  the  bottom 
of  which  a  river  ran  as  fast  the  other  way. 


AN  ARTIST'S  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


869 


I  watched  and  looked  as  long  as  fatigue  al- 
lowed, but  fell  asleep  in  the  uncomfortable 
kuruma,  waked  every  now  and  then  by  some 
sudden  jolt  to  my  extended  arm  and  head. 

Occasionally  I  had  dreamy  glances  at  what 
I  remember  as  a  vast  blue  plain,  with  lofty  col- 
orless mountains  at  one  side,  and  perhaps  I 
saw  glimpses  of  the  sea.  The  night  air  was 
cold  in  the  hollows  after  the  sweltering  day, 
and  I  found  my  arm  and  face  damp  with  the 
dew.    A  Japanese  poet  would  have  said  that 


hotel  in  the  morning  to  bid  us  a  still  more 
final  good-by.  Oye  San  alone  remained  faith- 
ful to  his  self-intrusted  care  of  us,  and  deter- 
mined to  see  us  as  far  as  the  land  would  allow ; 
that  is  to  say,  to  the  shores  of  Biwa  Lake. 

The  caravan  was  smaller  now,  diminished 
by  our  parting  with  Awoki  the  interpreter  and 
the  men  necessary  to  trundle  him  about. 
Still  we  were  a  goodly  company  —  nineteen 
men  in  all,  of  whom  three  were  masters,  one 
the  servant,  and  the  rest  the  runners  who  were 


A    RUNNER     IN     THE     RAIN. 


it  was  but  the  spray  from  off  the  oars  of  some 
heavenly  boat  which  sailed  that  night  across 
the  starry  stream  of  the  Milky  Way. 

In  the  dawn  we  saw  the  white  walls  of  the 
castle  of  the  city  of  Osaka,  and  ran  across  its 
many  bridges,  all  silent  in  the  morning. 

A    JAPANESE    DAY. FROM    KIOTO    TO    GIFU. 

Nagoya,  September. — Notwithstanding  the 
long  parting,  which  kept  us  up  very  late,  the 
same  courteous  Japanese  friends  were  at  the 


to  get  us  and  our  baggage  to  Otzu  on  Biwa 
Lake  long  before  noon.  There  was  to  be  no 
novelty  on  our  road,  it  being  merely  the  high- 
way from  the  capital  to  the  lake.  It  was  a 
lovely  morning,  the  sun  long  risen,  and  all  the 
places  and  buildings  now  a  part  of  our  memo- 
ries glistening  in  the  shadow  and  the  dew. 
We  turned  our  backs  for  the  last  time  on  Kiyo- 
midzu,  and  ran  through  the  great  gate  of  the 
temple  near  us,  then,  bumping  down  the  steep 
steps  under  it,  skirted  the  great  wall  of  Dai 
Butzu  and  the  interminable  side  of  the  Sanjiu 


870 


AN  ARTIST'S  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


FISHING     WITH     CORMORANTS. 


sangendo  (the  hall  of  the  thirty-three  spaces),1 
along  which  in  old  times  the  archers  used  to 
shoot.  Then  we  gradually  got  out  of  the  city, 
into  the  road  filled  with  traffic  going  both 
ways.  There  seemed  to  be  no  break  between 
town  and  country.  Here  and  there  the  moun- 
tain side,  covered  with  trees,  descended  to  the 
road.  But  the  effect  was  that  of  a  long  street, 
deep  among  hills,  and  continuously  spotted 
with  buildings.  Long  trains  of  beautiful  black 
bulls,  drawing  lumber  or  merchandise  or  car- 
rying straw-covered  bales,  streamed  peacefully 
along.  We  passed  peasant  women,  hardy,  tall, 
sometimes  handsome,  with  scarlet  undergowns 
held  up ;  occasionally  one  riding  on  a  pack- 
horse,  or  in  her  place  a  child  perched  on  the 
hump  of  the  wooden  saddle.  Or,  again,  peas- 
ants bearing  loads  on  their  backs,  or  carriers 
with  weighty  merchandise  swung  between 
them  on  poles ;  priests,  young  and  old,  step- 
ping gravely  in  their  white,  or  yellow,  or  black 
dresses  —  some  with  umbrellas  open,  others, 
whose  quicker  step  meant  that  they  had  not 
far  to  go  (perhaps  only  to  some  wayside 
temple),  protecting  their  shaven  heads  with 
outspread  fan.  Or  a  kuruma,  usually  with  one 
runner,  taking  into  town  economically  two 
1  Three  hundred  and  eighty-nine  feet  long. 


women  together,  one  old,  one  young,  and  fol- 
lowed by  another  kuruma  carrying  some  old 
gentleman,  very  thin  or  very  fat,  the  head  of 
the  family.  Kurumas  carrying  Japanese  tour- 
ists or  travelers,  with  hideous  billycock  hats, 
or  Anglo-Indian  helmets,  or  wide  straw  hats 
a  la  mode  de  Third  Avenue,  these  abominable 
head-pieces  contrasting  with  their  graceful 
gowns,  as  did  their  luggage,  wrapped  up  in 
silk  handkerchiefs,  with  their  European  travel- 
ing rugs.  Or,  again,  other  kurumas  carrying 
unprotected  females  in  pairs,  with  the  usual  in- 
different or  forlorn  look,  or  couples  of  young 
girls  more  gaily  dressed,  with  flowery  hairpins, 
the  one  evidently  a  chaperon  to  the  other; 
then  a  Government  official,  <?// European,  with 
hurrying  runners ;  sometimes,  but  rarely,  the 
Japanese  litter  or  kago,  or  several  if  for  a  party, 
their  occupants  lying  at  their  ease  as  to  their 
backs,  but  twisted  into  knots  as  to  their  feet, 
and  swaying  with  the  movement  of  the  trot- 
ting carriers.  Bent  to  one  side  by  the  heavy 
ridgepole,  which  passes  too  low  to  allow  the 
head  to  lie  in  the  axis  of  the  body,  sweet-eyed 
women's  faces,  tea-rose  or  peach-colored, 
looked  up  from  the  bamboo  basket  of  the 
litter.  With  proper  indifference  their  lords 
and  masters  looked  at  us  obliquely.    On  the 


AN  ARTISTS  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


871 


roofs  was  spread  a  miscellaneous  quantity  of 
luggage. 

From  time  to  time  troopers  or  officers,  of 
course  in  European  costume,  mounted  on 
Japanese  chargers,  cantered  past.  Two  hours 
of  this ;  then  the  sides  of  the  road,  which  had 
risen  and  fallen  with  hill  and  valley,  melted 
away,  and  the  harbor  of  Otzu  and  Lake  Biwa 
and  blue  mountains  over  the  water,  and  others 
sketched  in  the  air,  were  spread  before  us  in 
the  blaze  of  sunlight  seen  through  the  cool 
shadow  of  the  mountains. 

We  rode  down  the  hill  to  a  little  jetty,  mar- 
velously  like  a  North  River  dock,  with  big 
sheds  where  passengers  were  waiting,  and  a 
little  steamer  fastened  to  the  wharf.  We  bade 
good-by  for  the  last  time  to  Oye  San,  who  said 
many  things  that  Ave  appreciated  but  did  not 
understand  the  words  of,  and  who  pointed  to 
the  square  Japanese  sails  glittering  in  the  far- 
off  light,  saying,  "  Fune,  Fune !  "  ("  The  boats, 
the  boats !  ")  We  dismissed  kurumas  and  kuru- 
maya  and  sailed  off  with  Hakodate  (the  cour- 
ier) alone.  We  stretched  ourselves  on  the 
upper  deck,  half  in  sun  half  in  shadow,  and 
blinked  lazily  at  the  distant  blue  mountains 
and  the  great  sea-like  lake. 

Two  hours  later  we  had  landed  at  a  long 
jetty,  in  a  heavy  sea,  with  tossing  dark  blue 
water,  different  from  the  quiet  azure  of  our 
sail.  The  brisk  wind,  blowing  the  white  clouds 
over  the  blue  sky,  was  clear  and  cold.  We 
got  out  of  its  reach,  as  I  felt  neuralgic,  and 
tried  to  sleep  in  a  little  tea-house,  waking  to 
the  screams  of  the  tea-house  girl,  "  Mairi- 
masho ! "  and  I  had  but  time  to  get  into  the 
train.  Whether  it  started  from  there  or  had  ar- 
rived there,' I  never  knew.  I  had  been  glad  to 
forget  everything  in  dreamland. 

I  remember  little  of  my  railroad  ride,  what 
with  neuralgia  and  heat,  and  the  effects  of  the 
dance  of  the  little  steamer  on  Lake  Biwa. 
There  were  mountains  and  ravines,  and  vast 
engineering  protections  for  our  path,  and  every- 
where the  evidence  of  a  struggle  with  the  many 
running  waters  we  crossed  or  skirted.  The  blue 
and  silver  of  the  lake  that  we  had  crossed,  and 
the  sweetness  of  its  air,  were  shut  out  in  the 
dust  and  the  heat  of  mountain  sides.  We  had 
not  seen  the  Eight  Beauties  of  Biwa  Lake.1  The 
"Autumn  Moon  from  Ishiyama  "  had  set  long 
before  we  passed,  and  the  idea  of  other  temples 

to  be  seen  brought  out  A 's  antagonism 

to  more  climbing,  only  to  be  rewarded  by 
promenades  through  lanterns  and  shrines  and 
confused  struggling  with  dates  and  divinities. 
"  The  Evening  Snow  on  Hira-yama  "  was  not 
to  fall  until  we  should  be  across  the  Pacific ; 
nor  could  we  ask  of  that  blue  September 
morning  "  The  Blaze  of  Evening  at  Seta  "  nor 
1  Omi-no-hakkei. 


"The  Evening  Bell  of  Mii-dera" — though 
we  heard  the  bell  early,  and  wondered  whether 
it  were  still  uninjured,  from  the  time  when 
big  Benkei  carried  it  off  and  exchanged  it  for 
too  much  soup,  exactly  seven  hundred  years 
ago ;  nor  "  Rain  by  Night  at  Kara-saki,"  the 
place  of  the  famous  pine  tree,  which  was  grow- 
ing, they  say,  twenty-four  hundred  years  ago, 
when  Jim-mu  was  emperor.  There  I  might 
have  met,  perhaps,  the  "  Old  Man  and  the  Old 
Woman  "  you  have  seen  over  and  over  again 
in  the  pictures  and  on  the  fans.  (They  are  the 
spirits  of  the  other  old  pine  trees  of  Takasago 
and  Sumiyoshi,  and  they  are  fond  of  visiting 
each  other.)  Nor  did  we  see  "  The  Wild  Geese 
alighting  at  Katada,"  but  I  felt  as  if  I  had 


U  •  a:  -M   V;'   r'.'  #$& 


A    PILGRIM. 


872 


AN  ARTISTS  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


seen  "  The  Boats  sailing  back  from  Yabase  " 
and  "  The  Bright  Sky  with  a  Breeze  at  Awadzu." 
If  I  had  not,  I  still  had  seen  boats  sailing  over 
and  under  as  lovely  a  blue  as  can  be  spread 
by  early  September  days.  I  suppose  that  our 
friend  Oye  San  was  trying  to  recall  these  last 
classical  quotations  to  me  when  he  bade  me 
good-by  at  the  landing  in  Otzu.  An  ocean  rolls 


order,  neat  and  trim,  the  thatch  of  every  build- 
ing. What  the  prince  was  looking  for  is  what 
we  call  the  picturesque.  To  miss  all  the  charms 
that  ruin  brings  was  too  much  for  his  esthetic 
soul,  and  he  ordered  the  wheels  of  his  chariot 
to  be  turned  for  home.  So  did  not  we.  Neater 
and  neater  grew  the  inclosures,  farms,  and  vil- 
lages; the  fences  had  pretty  gates, — curious 


FUSIYAMA    FROM     KAMBARA    BEACH. 


between  his  Parnassus  and  ours,  but  he  lives 
much  nearer  to  the  mood  that  once  made 
beautiful  the  names  of  Tempe  and  Helicon 
and  the  winding  Meander. 

With  all  this  dreaming  I  fell  asleep,  and  woke 
free  from  pain,  but  stupid  and  unimpression- 
able, as  our  train  stopped  at  the  little  station 
from  which  we  were  to  ride  to  Gifu.  This  was 
a  little,  new  way-station  (of  course  I  don't 
remember  its  name),  so  like  and  so  unlike  one 
of  ours,  with  the  same  look  of  the  railroad  be- 
ing laid  down — "imposed" — on  an  earth 
which  did  not  understand  what  it  all  meant 
—  grass  struggling  to  get  back  to  the  sides  of 
filled-up  ditches ;  timbers  lying  about ;  new, 
astonished  buildings,  in  one  of  which  we 
washed,  and  waited,  and  dined.  Meanwhile 
Hakodate  went  after  the  runners  who  were 
to  drag  us  on  our  afternoon  ride,  and  then  if 
"  we  suited  "  to  run  with  us  the  whole  week, 
thirty-five  miles  a  day,  along  the  Tokaido, 
back  towards  Yokohama. 

When  all  was  ready  it  was  late  afternoon, 
and  our  procession  ran  along  what  seemed  to 
be  a  vast  plain  of  table-land,  with  high  moun- 
tains for  an  edge.  All  seemed  as  clear  and 
neat  as  the  air  we  rode  in.  Somewhere  there 
we  must  have  passed  the  hill  of  "  The  turning 
back  of  the  Chariot " :  this  means  that,  long 
ago,  that  is  to  say  about  1470,  the  regent 
Yoshimoto,  while  traveling  here,  found  that 
the  inhabitants,  to  do  him  honor,  had  put  in 


patterns  of  bamboo  pickets, —  a  far-away,  out- 
of-the-world  flavor  of  Holland  or  Flanders. 
Even  the  ordinary  setting  out  of  wayside 
trees,  in  this  province  of  forestry,  insisted  on 
the  analogy,  confused  perhaps  with  a  dream  of 
Lombard  plains  and  mountains  in  a  cool  blue 
distance,  for  the  mind  insists  on  clinging  to 
reminiscences,  as  if  afraid  to  trust  itself  to  the 
full  sea  of  new  impressions. 

As  I  rode  along,  so  neat  and  clean  was 
each  picture,  framed  in  sunlight  if  we  were 
in  shadow,  or  in  clear  shade  when  we  were 
in  sunlight,  that  I  thought  I  could  remember 
enough  small  facts  for  sketches  and  notes 
when  I  should  get  to  Gifu.  We  reached  Gifu 
in  the  early  twilight,  and  had  no  special  one 
impression ;  we  were  framed  in  by  the  streets, 
and  confused  by  turning  corners,  and  disturbed 
by  anxiety  to  get  in.  But  we  had  one  great 
triumph.  Our  guide  was  new  to  the  place  — 
as  we  were;  and  we  chose  our  inn  at  our  own 
sweet  will,  with  a  feeling  of  authority  and  per- 
sonal responsibility  delicious  to  experience 
after  such  ignominy  of  guidance.  Up  we  went 
to  our  rooms,  and  opening  the  shojis 1  looked 
out  upon  the  river,  which  seemed  broad  as  a 
great  lake.  Our  house  was  right  upon  it,  and 
the  open  casement  framed  nothing  but  water 
and  pointed  mountains,  stealing  away  in  the 
obscure  clearness  of  a  colorless  twilight.    The 

1  Sliding  screens,  which  take  the  place  of  our  win- 
dows. 


AN  ARTISTS  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


873 


running  of  the  river,  sloping  down  from  the 
hills  on  a  bed  of  pebbles,  cut  off  the  noises  of 
the  town,  if  there  were  any,  and  the  silence 
was  like  that  of  far-away  country  heights.  In 
this  semi-painful  tension  the  day's  pictures 
disappeared  from  my  mind.  I  was  all  pre- 
pared to  have  something  happen,  for  which 
I  should  have  been  listening,  when  suddenly 
our  host  appeared,  to  say  that  the  boats  were 
coming  down  the  river.  The  chilly  evening 
air  gave  us  new  freshness,  and  off  we  started, 
deaf  to  the  remonstrances  of  Hakodate,  who 
had  prepared  and  set  out  his  very  best  for 
supper.  We  rushed  past  the  artist  in  cookery, 
whose  feelings  I  could  yet  appreciate,  and 
plunged  after  our  host  into  the  dark  streets. 
In  a  few  minutes  we  were  by  the  riverside, 
and  could  see  far  off  what  we  took  for  our  boat, 
with  its  roof  and  lanterns.  The  proffered  backs 
of  our  lantern-bearing  attendants  gave  the 
solution  of  how  we  were  to  get  to  it.  Strad- 
dling our  human  horses,  we  were  carried  far 
out  into  the  shallow,  pebbly  river,  landed  into 
the  boat,  and  poled  out  into  deeper  water, 
nothing  to  be  seen  but  the  night  and  the  con- 
ical hills,  one  of  which  I  fancied  to  be  Inaba, 
where  was  once  Nobunaga's  castle.  Some  faint 
mists  were  white  in  the  distance,  as  if  lighted  by 
a  rising  moon.  At  no  great  distance  from  us, 
perhaps  at  a  quarter  of  a  mile,  a  light  flickered 
over  the  water.  On  our  approach  we  could 
distinguish  a  man  connected  with  it,  who  ap- 
parently walked  on  the  dark  surface.  He  was 
evidently  a  fisherman  or  a  shrimper,  and  his 
movements  had  all  the  strangeness  of  some 
long-legged  aquatic  bird.  He  knew  his  path, 
and,  far  out,  followed  some  track  of  ford,  add- 
ing to  the  loneliness  as  does  a  crane  in  a 
marshy  landscape.  Then  I  saw  him  no  more, 
for  he  headed  up  the  river  towards  an  opening 
between  the  hills.  Suddenly  a  haze  of  light 
rounded  the  corner  of  the  nearest  mountain, 
then  grew  into  a  line  of  fire  coming  towards 
us.  Above  the  rustle  of  the  river's  course,  and 
our  own  against  it,  came  the  beating  of  a  cry 
in  unison.  The  line  of  flame  broke  into  many 
fires,  and  we  could  see  the  boats  rushing  down 
upon  us.  As  quickly  as  I  can  write  it,  they 
came  in  an  even  line,  wide  apart — perhaps 
fifty  feet  or  so  — enough  for  us  to  pass  between, 
whereupon  we  reversed  our  movement  and 
drifted  along  with  them.  In  the  front  of  each 
boat,  hung  upon  a  bent  pole,  blazed  a  large 
cresset  filled  with  pine  knots,  making  above 
a  cloud  of  smoke,  starred  with  sparks  and  long 
needles  of  red  cinders.  Below  in  the  circle  of 
each  light,  and  on  its  outer  rim,  swam  many 
birds,  glossy  black  and  white  cormorants,  strain- 
ing so  at  the  cords  that  held  them  that  they 
appeared  to  be  dragging  the  boats.  As  they 
spread  like  a  fan  before  the  dark  shadow  of 
Vol.  XL. — 114. 


the  bows  the  cords  which  fastened  them  glis- 
tened or  were  black  in  the  light.  Each  string 
ran  through  the  fingers  of  the  master-fisher 
at  the  bows,  and  was  fastened  to  his  waist 
and  lost  in  the  glittering  straw  of  his  rain-skirt. 
Like  a  four-in-hand  driver,  he  seemed  to  feel 
his  birds'  movements.  His  fingers  loosened 
or  tightened,  or,  as  suddenly,  with  a  clutch 
pulled  back.  Then  came  a  rebellious  flutter- 
ing, and  the  white  glitter  of  fish  in  the  beaks 
disappeared — unavailingly ;  each  bird  was 
forcibly  drawn  up  to  the  gunwale,  and  seized 
by  the  neck  encircled  by  its  string-bearing 
collar.  Then  a  squeeze  —  a  white  fish  glittered 
out  again  and  was  thrown  back  into  the  boat. 
The  bird  scuttled  away,  dropped  back  into 
the  water,  and,  shaking  itself,  was  at  work 
again.  They  swam  with  necks  erect,  their 
eyes  apparently  looking  over  everything,  and 
so  indifferent  to  small  matters  as  to  allow  the 
big  cinders  to  lie  unnoticed  on  their  oily,  flat 
heads.  But,  every  few  seconds,  one  would 
stoop  down,  then  throw  back  its  head  wildly 
with  a  fish  crosswise  in  its  mouth.  When  that 
fish  was  a  small  one  it  was  allowed  by  the 
master  of  the  bird  to  remain  in  the  capacious 
gullet.  Each  pack  guided  by  a  master  varied 
in  numbers,  but  I  counted  thirteen  fastened 
to  the  waist  of  the  fisherman  nearest  to  us. 
Behind  him  stood  another  poling;  then  far- 
ther back  an  apprentice,  with  one  single  bird, 
was  learning  to  manage  his  feathered  tools. 
In  the  stern  stood  the  steersman,  using  a  long 
pole.  Every  man  shouted,  as  huntsmen  en- 
couraging a  pack,  "  Hoo  !  Hoo  !  Hoo  !  "  — 
making  the  cry  whose  rhythm  we  had  heard 
when  the  flotilla  bore  down  upon  us. 

Ten  minutes,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more, 
passed  as  we  kept  alongside  with  motionless 
celerity.  I  tried  to  sketch  in  the  insufficient 
light — making  sometimes  one  sketch  right 
upon  another,  so  little  could  I  see  my  lines  in 
the  treacherous  light.  Then  the  boats  swerved 
off  and  were  driven  to  the  shore  together,  or 
as  far  as  we  could  get  to  it,  in  the  shallow 
water.  Above  us  rose  the  steep  green  hillside, 
the  trees  and  rocks  lit  up  in  an  arabesque  of 
light  and  dark  by  the  now  diminished  flames. 

The  birds  rested,  standing  in  the  water, 
preening  their  oily  backs  and  white  bellies, 
and  flapping  their  ragged  wings,  which  seemed 
to  have  been  clipped.  The  apprentice  caressed 
his  bird,  the  fisherman  and  the  steerers  laughed 
and  exchanged  jokes  and  chatted  generally, 
with  all  the  good  nature  and  making  light  of 
hard  work  which  is  so  essentially  Japanese. 

Then  the  birds  began  to  fight,  and  to  show 
that  peace  was  not  their  pleasure.  Fresh  pine 
knots  were  thrown  into  the  cressets ;  each 
man  took  his  place ;  the  polers  pushed  oft"; 
the  birds  strained  at  the  strings;    and  all  da 


§74 


AN  ARTIST'S  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


capo.  A  little  longer  we  watched,  and  then  we 
let  the  boats  glide  past  us;  the  fires  faded 
again  into  a  haze  of  light  as  they  went  down 
the  river  towards  the  bridges  of  the  town,  now 
dotted  with  people. 

Then  we  were  carried  to  the  shore  as  we 
had  left  it,  and  were  piloted  home  through 
the  streets,  now  filled  with  lanterns  and  move- 
ment. We  found  our  outraged  artist  in  cook- 
ery still  indignant  over  our  neglect  of  food, 
but  he  was  gradually  appeased,  and  made  up 
for  his  hungry  masters  a  fairly  sufficient  meal. 
Cigars,  a  scrutiny  of  my  despairing  sketches, 
and  a  long  look  at  the  lovely  melancholy  of 
the  river  and  mountains  before  we  closed  the 
shojis  for  the  night. 

FROM    KAMBARA    TO    MIYANOSHITA. A    LET- 
TER   FROM    A    KAGO. 

September  28. —  I  am  writing  in  a  kago.1 
You  do  not  know  what  an  achievement  this  is, 
but  I  shall  explain  later  on  what  a  kago  is,  why 
I  am  in  it,  and  why  it  is  not  exactly  the  place 
to  expect  a  letter  from.  To  begin  at  the  begin- 
ning, we  were  yesterday  afternoon  at  Kambara, 
on  the  gulf  of  Suruga  Bay.  We  had  eaten 
there  in  an  inn  by  the  water,  while  I  watched 
through  the  screens  the  waving  of  a  palm 
tree  in  the  wind,  which  was  now  blowing 
autumnally  and  had  cleared  the  sky  and  en- 
livened us  with  a  hope  of  continuous  view  of 
Fuji.  Along  the  beach,  as  we  rode  away,  the 
breakers  ran  far  up  the  sand,  and  the  water 
was  green  as  emerald  from  the  brown,  wet 
shore  to  the  distant  blue  haze  of  the  ocean  in 
the  south.  At  the  end  of  the  great  curve  of 
the  gulf  stretched  the  lines  of  green  and  pur- 
ple mountains,  which  run  far  off  into  Idzu,and 
above  them  stood  Fuji  in  the  sky,  very  pale 
and  clear,  with  one  enormous  band  of  cloud 
half  way  up  its  long  slope,  and  melting  into 
infinite  distance  towards  the  ocean.  Its  near- 
est point  hung  half  across  the  mountain's  base, 
more  solid  than  the  mountain  itself,  and  cast 
a  long  shadow  upon  it  for  miles  of  distance. 
Above,  the  eye  could  but  just  detect  a  faint 
haze  in  the  delicate  blue  of  the  sky.  Best  of 
all  weather,  we  thought;  a  breeder  of  bad 
weather,  according  to  our  men,  who,  alas, 
knew  more  of  it  than  we  did.  For  a  mile  now, 
perhaps,  we  ran  along  between  the  sea  and  the 
abrupt  green  wall  of  hills,  so  steep  that  we 
could  not  see  them,  and  turning  sharply  around 
a  corner  beheld  Fuji,  now  filling  the  entire 
field  of  sight,  seeming  to  rise  even  from  below 
us  into  the  upper  sky,  and  framed  at  its  base 
by  near  green  mountains;  these  opened  as  a 
gate,  and  showed  the  glittering  streak  of  the 
swollen  Fujikawa,  the  swiftest  river  in  Japan. 
1  Pronounced  Kang'go. 


The  lower  eastern  slope  was  cut  off  by 
cloud,  but  its  western  line,  ineffably  delicate 
in  clearness,  stretched  to  the  left  out  of  our 
range  of  vision.  Below  its  violet  edge  the 
golden  slope  spread  in  the  sun,  of  the  color  of 
an  autumn  leaf.  Along  the  center  of  this  prov- 
ince of  space  the  shadow  of  the  great  cloud 
rested.  The  marks  of  the  spurs  of  the  moun- 
tain were  as  faint  as  the  streaks  of  the  wind  on 
a  grain  field.  Its  cone  was  of  a  deep  violet 
color,  and  as  free  of  snow  as  though  this  had 
been  the  day  of  poetic  tradition  upon  which 
the  snow  entirely  disappears  to  fall  again  the 
following  night.  No  words  can  recall  ade- 
quately the  simple   splendor   of    the    divine 

mountain.    As  A remarked,  it  was  worth 

coming  to  far  Japan  for  this  single  day. 

Right  into  this  marvelous  picture  we  rode, 
through  green  plantations  and  rice  fields,  which 
edged  the  bases  of  the  nearest  hills  and  lay 
between  us  and  the  river.  There  we  found  no 
means  of  crossing.  All  bridges  had  been  car- 
ried away  by  the  flood.  The  plain  was  inun- 
dated ;  travelers  had  been  detained  for  a  week 
by  a  sea  of  waters,  and  were  scattered  there 
and  in  neighboring  villages,  filling  every  rest- 
ing-place; and,  worst  of  all,  the  police  officials 
would  not  allow  us  to  tempt  the  fishermen  to 
make  the  dangerous  crossing. 

The  occasion  was  a  solemn  one.  The  police 
representative,  upon  seeing  us  come  in  person 
to  request  help,  slipped  off  the  easy  Japanese 
dress  which  he  was  wearing  in  these  days  of 
forced  idleness,  and  reappeared  from  behind 
the  screen  clad  in  his  official  European  cos- 
tume. I  have  no  doubt  that  our  interpreter 
explained  to  him  what  important  persons  we 
were,  and  what  important  letters  we  bore  to 
important  people  of  the  land,  for  he  kindly 
suggested  that  we  might  sail  past  the  mouth 
of  the  river,  from  near  Kambara,  whence  we 
had  just  come,  so  as  to  land  far  away  from  the 
spread  of  all  this  devastation ;  and  he  offered 
to  send  a  deputy  with  a  requisition  for  a  junk 
and  sufficient  sailors,  from  the  nearest  fishing 
village  on  the  bay  —  and  so  we  returned. 
While  Hakodate  and  the  messenger  went  on 

to  make  all  arrangements,  A and  myself 

stopped  at  the  place  where  we  had  had  our 
view  of  Fuji,  to  make  a  more  careful  sketch. 
You  can  have  no  idea  of  how  much  closer  the 
clearer  mind  worked  out  the  true  outline  of  the 
mountain,  which  my  excitement  had  height- 
ened at  least  a  couple  of  thousand  feet;  nor 
should  I  forget  how  my  two-legged  horse  of  a 
runner  held  my  paint-box  for  me,  and  seemed  to 
know  exactly  when  and  where  I  wished  to  dip 
my  brush.  It  seemed  to  me  that  only  a  few  mo- 
ments had  passed  when  the  messenger  returned 
to  say  that  the  boat  was  ready  to  launch,  and 
that  we  must  hurry  to  be  out  at  sea  before 


AN  ARTISTS  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


875 


sunset;  this  too  in  view  of  the  storm,  which 
we  might  escape  if  we  hurried.  The  implied 
threat  made  no  impression  on  me.  The  picture 
before  us  had  not  changed  any  more  than  if 
painted  by  man.  The  great  cloud  hung  fixed, 
apparently,  in  the  same  place.  All  was  still : 
perhaps  in  the  uppermost  sky  one  could  dis- 
tinguish some  outlines  of  white  in  the  blue. 
Still  we  hurried  off,  and  arrived  upon  a  scene 
of  confusion  and  wild  excitement.  A  captain 
and  a  crew  had  been  found ;  their  boat  stood 
high  up  on  the  crest  of  the  surf,  now  beating 
on  the  shore,  and  carried  the  line  with  which 
to  pull  out  the  small  junk,  still  far  up  on  the 
beach.  The  wheels  of  our  kurumas  had  been 
taken  off  and  their  bodies  had  been  placed  in 
the  hold. 

As  we  got  on  board  at  least  a  hundred 
naked  men  pushed  and  tugged  to  start  the 
junk  upon  the  slope  of  sand.  The  sun  was 
setting  suddenly  behind  the  headland  of  Shi- 
zuoka,  and  the  air  was  filled  with  the  moisture 
from  the  sea ;  a  rosy  bloom,  pink  as  the  clouds 
themselves,  filled  the  entire  air,  near  and  far, 
towards  the  light.  On  the  other  side  the  dis- 
tance was  fading  into  gray  and  violet  mist. 
The  great  mountain  was  still  a  great  clear 
mass,  but  colorless,  like  the  northern  sky  be- 
hind it,  while  bathed  in  the  color  of  fairy- 
land we  rose  and  fell  over  the  breakers  —  the 
spray,  the  waves,  the  boat,  the  bodies  of  the 
men,  glistening  and  suffused  with  pink. 

No  painter  ever  saw  a  more  ideal  light. 
And  suddenly  it  faded,  leaving  us  in  a  still 
brilliant  twilight,  through  which  we  looked  at 
the  tossing  of  the  hazy  sea.  The  mast  was 
lifted  and  set,  the  great  square  sail  was  hoisted, 
and  the  captain  took  hold  of  the  ponderous 
tiller.  We  stretched  ourselves  on  the  poop 
deck,  prepared  for  a  dance  of  seventeen  miles ; 
then  under  my  protecting  blanket  I  fell  asleep 
—  to  wake  and  see  before  me  a  sheet  of  rain. 
The  predicted  storm  had  flooded  us;  we  lay 
in  the  water  that  covered  the  deck,  our  water- 
proofs insufficient,  and  glad  to  be  able  to  find 
some  protection  under  the  Japanese  rain-coats 
of  straw,  whose  merits  I  had  not  yet  under- 
stood. 

From  under  my  shelter  I  could  see  that  our 
mast  was  lowered,  and  that  the  captain  and 
the  sailors  forward  were  working  at  the  heavy 
sweeps.  Below,  under  hatches,  I  could  hear 
the  groaning  of  our  seasick  runners.  Between 
the  gusts  of  rain  came  the  voice  of  the  cap- 
tain, now  in  the  straining  agony  of  seasickness, 
next  keeping  up  a  steady,  chanted  talk  with  a 
mate  forward.  A  lantern  was  lashed  to  the 
post  of  the  tiller,  and  the  captain's  bare  feet 
rose  and  fell  with  his  steps  at  the  great  oar, 
showing  sharply  the  action  of  tendons  and 
muscles.    I  tried  to  sketch  under  my  cover, 


then  dozed, —  sleepy  with  the  rocking  and  the 
cold  and  the  wet, —  and  with  every  waking 
hearing  the  whistling  of  the  wind  and  the  con- 
tinuous monotonous  voice  in  a  language  not 
understood.    So  passed  the  night. 

We  saw  the  morning  break  on  a  lonely, 
high,  gray  bank,  streaked  by  the  sea  lines  of 
different  tides,  and  crowned  with  a  line  of  pines 
of  all  sizes  and  shapes,  stretching  for  miles 
dark  green  against  the  white  clouds,  which 
were  as  solid  as  they,  and  which  covered  the 
base  of  the  mountains  behind.  Out  of  these 
white  banks  stood  dull  blue  peaks,  while  the 
highest  mountains  were  lost  in  cloud,  and  all 
was  gray  and  desolate  with  the  rain.  The  surf 
broke  on  the  sand,  not  more  than  a  hundred 
yards  from  us.  We  lay  there  some  time,  wait- 
ing for  more  light,  for  all  wind  had  ceased; 
then  four  men  swam  ashore  with  a  rope,  and 
towed  us  along  the  bank.  The  surf  had  abated, 
but  landing  was  too  difficult,  and  we  were  to 
be  dragged,  while  our  other  men  worked  at 
the  big  sculls  and  pushed  us  along.  We  wore 
along  four  miles  to  a  little  bar,  over  which  we 
were  pulled  by  the  men  now  in  the  water  into 
a  singular  little  harbor  with  an  entrance  not 
more  than  a  hundred  feet  wide.  On  this  the 
surf  broke  gently  —  white  on  the  gray  sea.  To 
our  left  the  backs  of  two  sand  spits  dotted  the 
water,  and  on  the  right,  looking  out  to  sea, 
rose  the  edge  of  a  grove  of  pines,  with  four  or 
five  houses,  heavy  roofed  and  thatched,  against 
its  green  darkness. 

On  the  curve  of  the  beach  before  it  stood 
a  high  pointed  rock  almost  touched  by  the 
water,  edged  around  and  covered  with  pines— 
all  but  the  perpendicular  side  facing  the  har- 
bor. On  its  summit  a  little  red  temple,  whose 
back  we  saw.  On  the  other  side,  landwards, 
as  we  left  our  boat,  and  followed  our  guides 
ashore  around  its  base,  a  hundred  steps  ran 
straight  up  to  the  front  of  the  little  shrine  — 
so  steep  and  sudden  that  we  could  just  look 
along  their  edge.  From  the  high  rock,  re- 
cessed, ran  back  the  shore,  on  which  stood  in 
a  row  three  large  junks  with  their  sterns  to 
the  sea  —  behind  them  trees  and  houses.  On 
the  opposite  side  of  the  little  harbor  four  of 
our  men,  up  to  their  middle  or  up  to  their 
armpits  in  water,  slowly  dragged  our  junk 
nearer  to  the  shore.  All  was  quiet  and  gray  — 
the  men  reflected  in  the  moving  water,  the 
boat  creaking  along  slowly.  As  I  went  up  the 
beach,  following  our  guide  and  the  boatmen,  I 
thought  how  like  this  was  to  the  Homeric 
haven  —  the  grove  looking  out  to  sea  and  fre- 
quented by  "  fowls  maritimal  " ;  the  sacred 
rock ;  the  meadows  and  the  little  stream ; 
the  long  galleys  drawn  up  on  the  beach.  The 
little  houses  of  the  fishing  village  were  sur- 
rounded by  gardens,  and  their  walls  largely 


876 


AN  ARTIST'S  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


made  of  plaited  bamboo.  There  was  no  inn, 
but  we  found  a  house  half  shop,  and  were 
welcomed  to  some  tea  and  to  a  room  which  the 
family  hastened  to  abandon  for  us.  There  were 
only  two  rooms  besides  the  entrance,  which 
was  a  large  passage  floored  with  earth,  and 
along  one  side  of  it  a  raised  surface,  from 
which  began  the  level  of  our  flooring. 

Sliding  partitions,  hurriedly  run  up,  made 
us  a  room,  but  the  outside  screens  were  full 
of  holes,  through  which,  in  a  few  minutes, 
peered  all  the  women  and  children  of  the  vil- 
lage, who  occasionally  even  pushed  aside  the 
screens  to  see  more  completely.  The  little  pas- 
sage in  front  of  our  open  room  was  filled  with 
girls  and  children  intent  upon  our  ways  of 
smoking,  of  taking  tea,  and  of  eating  — for  we 
had  biscuits  with  us,  and  fifteen  hours  at  least 
without  food  had  made  us  fairly  hungry. 
Meanwhile  the  men  landed  their  wagons  and 
the  trunks,  and  took  their  meal  of  rice,  hastily 
made  up,  on  the  ledge  of  the  platform  on  which 
we  sat.  This  they  did  in  a  row,  the  whole 
twenty  eating  quietly  but  rapidly, —  I  was 
going  to  say  firmly, —  shoving  into  their  mouths 
the  rice  from  the  bowls,  and  tearing  with  their 
fingers  the  fish  just  cooked.  Meanwhile,  among 
all  the  ugliness  around  us  in  women,  shone 
out,  with  beautiful  complexions, —  lost  in  the 
others  by  exposure  to  wind  and  sun,  by  hard 
work,  and  probably  by  child-bearing, —  three 
girls,  who  stood  before  us  a  long  time,  with 
sweet  faces  and  bright  eyes  and  teeth.  They 
stared  hard  at  us  until  stared  at  in  return,  when 
they  dispersed,  to  watch  us  again  like  children 
from  the  doors  and  from  the  kitchen. 

Our  hostess,  small,  fat,  good-natured,  and 
polite,  showing  black-lacquered  teeth  between 
rosy  lips,  like  ripe  seeds  in  a  watermelon, 
bustled  about  hurrying  everything,  and  at  the 
end  of  our  meal  our  host  appeared  —  from  the 
kitchen  apparently  —  and  knelt  before  us.  Poor 
and  ragged  as  the  house  was,  with  ceilings  black 
with  age  and  smoke,  and  screens  torn  and  worn 
by  rubbing,  the  little  tokonoma  held  a  fairly 
good  picture,  and  a  pretty  vase  with  flowers 
below  it.  But  it  was  evidently  one  of  the  poorest 
of  places,  and  had  never  seen  a  foreigner  in  it. 
This  may  have  been  the  cause  of  the  appear- 
ance of  the  ubiquitous  Japanese  policeman 
within  five  minutes  of  our  arrival.  He  alone 
betrayed  no  curiosity,  and  disappeared  with 
dignity  on  getting  our  credentials. 

The  rain  still  held  off.  We  entered  our  kuru- 
mas,  now  ready,  and  hastened  to  the  main 
road  which  we  were  to  find  at  Numadsu,  if 
that  be  the  name  of  the  place.  But,  alas  !  the 
rain  came  down,  and  my  views  were  confined 
within  the  outline  of  an  umbrella.  My  only 
adventure  was  stopping  at  some  hovel  on  the 
road  to  buy  some  more  of  that  heavy  yellow 


oiled  paper  which  replaces  the  leather  apron 
that  we  usually  find  attached  to  our  more  civil- 
ized carriages.  By  and  by  I  consented  to  have 
the  hood  of  my  wagon  put  up,  through  which 
I  could  see  little  more  than  the  thatched  backs 
of  my  runners,  their  bowls  of  hats,  off  which 
the  rain  spattered  upon  their  straw  cloaks  and 
aprons,  and  their  wet  brown  legs,  lifted  with 
the  regularity  of  automatons.  It  was  getting 
cold,  too,  and  women  under  their  umbrellas 
wore  the  graceful  short  overcoat  they  call 
haori,  and  tottered  over  the  wet  ground  on 
high   wooden   pattens. 

This  I  noticed  as  we  came  into  Mishima, 
from  which  place  we  were  to  begin  our  ascent 
up  the  Hakone  Pass.  On  our  way,  were  it  to 
clear,  we  might  see  Fuji  again  —  at  any  rate 
if  it  cleared  in  the  least  we  would  enjoy  the 
mountains.  Meanwhile  we  shivered  at  lunch, 
trying  to  get  into  corners  where  the  wind 
would  not  leak  through  the  cracks  of  the 
shojis,  and  beginning  to  experience  the  dis- 
comforts of  Japanese  inns.  And  now  my  bash- 
fulness  having  gradually  abandoned  me,  I 
could  take  my  hot  bath,  separated  from  the 
household  by  a  screen  not  over  high,  over 
which  the  fat  servant  girls  kindly  handed  me 
my  towels.  Excuse  these  trivial  details,  but  I 
cannot  otherwise  give  you  the  "  local  color," 
and  my  journal  is  one  of  small  things.  Had  I 
come  here  in  the  old  days  when  I  first  fell  in 
love  with  Japan,  I  might  have  met  with  some 
thrilling  experience  in  an  inn. 

I  might  have  had  such  an  experience  as  our 
poor  friend  Fauvel  met  with  not  far  from  here. 
I  might  have  met  some  young  sworded  men, 
anxious  to  maintain  their  dignity  and  ripe  for 
a  quarrel  with  the  foreigner.  Do  you  remem- 
ber that  he  jostled  the  sword  of  some  young- 
ster —  "  the  sword,  the  soul  of  the  Samurai  " — 
which  its  owner  had  left  upon  the  floor.  The 
insult  would  have  been  impossible  to  explain 
away  had  not  some  sensible  Japanese  official 
decided  that  a  man  who  was  so  careless  with 
his  sword  as  to  leave  it  on  the  mat,  instead  of 
on  the  reputable  sword-rack,  had  no  right  to 
complain  of  another's  inadvertence. 

I  sometimes  wonder  which  of  the  courteous 
persons  I  meet,  when  age  allows  the  supposi- 
tion, obeyed  these  rules  when  they  were 
younger ;  which  ones  now  dressed  in  black 
broadcloth  wore  the  great  helmet  with  branch- 
ing horns,  or  strapped  the  two  great  swords  at 
his  waist.  And  I  am  lost  in  respect  and  be- 
wilderment to  think  that  all  this  wondrous 
change  —  as  great  as  any  that  the  world  can 
have  seen — was  effected  with  such  success  and 
accepted  in  such  a  lofty  spirit. 

We  were  now  to  give  up  the  kuruma  and  to 
travel  by  the  kago,  which,  you  will  remember, 
I  promised  to  describe.    The  kago  is  a  curious 


AN  ARTISTS  LETTERS  FROM  JAPAN. 


877 


institution,  partly  superseded  by  the  kuruma,but 
lingering  in  many  places,  and  necessary  where 
the  pack-horse  would  be  unsafe,  and  where  one 
would  otherwise  have  to  walk.  It  consists  of  a 
small  litter  hung  by  stiff  bamboos  from  a  great 
pole,  over  which  is  steadied  a  little  matted 
roof,  from  which  various  protections  from  rain 
or  sun  can  be  dropped.  The  kago  has  its  dis- 
comforts :  one  lies  down  in  it  all  doubled  up, 
with  legs  crossed  as  far  as  they  can  be  made 
to,  because  the  basket,  which  is  the  body  of 
the  litter,  is  only  about  three  feet  long ;  and 
with  head  to  one  side,  because  if  one  lifted  it, 
it  might  strike  the  ridgepole.  The  proper  way 
is  to  lie  not  quite  in  the  axis.  This  is  all  the 
more  natural,  as  the  men  at  either  end  do  not 
carry  it  in  a  straight  line,  but  at  an  angle,  so 
that  from  one  side  you  can  see  a  little  in  front 
of  you. 

Into  the  kagos  we  were  folded,  and  in  a  tor- 
rent of  rain  we  departed.  I  resisted  my  being 
shut  up  in  my  litter  by  the  oiled-paper  sides 
that  are  used  in  the  rain,  and  I  depended 
upon  mackintosh  and  blanket  to  protect  me. 
The  rain  came  down  in  sheets.  We  trotted  up- 
hill, the  men  going  on  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
changing  shoulders,  and  then  again  another 
pair  taking  their  turn  —  four  to  each  litter. 
Meanwhile  they  sang,  as  they  trotted,  some- 
thing which  sounded  like  "  Hey,  hey,  hey,  het 
tue  hey."  The  road  was  almost  all  paved,  and 
in  the  steeper  ascents  was  very  bad. 

And  now  I  began  to  experience  some  novel 
sensations  not  easy  to  describe.  My  feet  were 
turned  in  upon  the  calves  of  the  legs  like  an 
Indian  Buddha's,  and  I  soon  began  to  ache 
along  sciatic  lines ;  then  elsewhere,  then  every- 
where. Then  I  determined  to  break  with  this 
arrangement,  as  anger  seized  me;  fortunately 
a  sort  of  paralysis  set  in  and  I  became  torpid 
and  gradually  resigned ;  and  gradually  also  I 
fell  asleep  with  the  curious  motion  and  the 
chant  of  the  men,  and  woke  accustomed,  and 
so  I  am  writing. 

I  can  just  remember  large  trees  and  roads 
protected  by  them;  some  places  where  we 
seemed  alone  in  the  world,  where  we  left  trees 
and  stood  in  some  narrow  path,  just  able  to  see 
above  its  sides  —  all  else  shut  out  of  existence 
by  the  rain ;  and  I  have  all  along  enjoyed  the 
novel  sensation  of  moving  on  the  level  of  the 
plants  and  shrubs. 

We  are  now  going  downhill  again,  and  can 
look  down  an  avenue  of  great  trees  and  many 
steps  which  we  descend.  We  are  coming  to 
Hakone ;  I  can  see  the  lake  beyond  a  Torii, 


and  at  the  first  corner  of  the  road  under  the 
trees  begins  the  village. 

Miyanoshita,  September  28. — Again  the 
kago,  and  the  rain  as  soon  as  we  departed.  I 
turned  as  well  as  I  could,  to  find  the  lovely 
lines,  now  lost  in  general  shapes  and  values, 
blurred  into  masses.  Once  the  light  opened  on 
the  top  of  some  high  hill  and  I  could  see,  with 
wild  roses  right  against  me,  some  flat  mile- 
stone marked  with  an  image  against  the  edges 
of  distant  mountains,  and  a  sky  of  faint  twi- 
light pink ;  or  again  we  pattered  along  in 
wet  grass,  past  a  great  rock  with  a  great  bas- 
relief  image  —  a  Jizo  (patron  of  travelers), 
sitting  in  the  loneliness  with  a  few  flowers  be- 
fore him.  Then  in  the  rain,  and  mingling  with 
the  mist,  thicker  cloudings  marked  the  steam 
from  hot  springs,  which  make  these  parts  of 
the  mountains  a  resort  for  invalids  and  bathers. 

Soon  the  darkness :  then  pine  knots  were 
lighted  and  we  descended  among  the  trees,  in 
a  path  like  a  torrent,  the  water  running  along 
between  the  stones  which  the  feet  of  the  bear- 
ers seemed  to  find  instinctively.  The  arms  of 
the  torch-bearers  were  modeled  in  wild  lights 
and  shadows ;  the  hats  of  the  men  made  a 
dusky  halo  around  their  heads  ;  the  rain-coats 
of  straw  glistened  with  wet ;  occasionally 
some  branch  came  out  distinct  in  every  leaf, 
between  the  smoke  and  the  big  sparks  and  em- 
bers. The  noise  of  torrents  near  by  rose  above 
the  rain  and  the  patter  and  the  song  of  the 
men.  The  steepness  of  the  path  seemed  only 
to  increase  the  rapidity  of  our  runners,  who 
bounded  along  from  stone  to  stone.  After  a 
time  anxiety  was  lost  in  the  excitement  of 
the  thing  and  in  our  success,  but  quite  late  in 
our  course  I  heard  behind  me  a  commotion  — - 

one  of  A 's  runners  had  slipped  and  the 

kago  had  come  down ;  no  one  hurt  - —  the  kago 
keeps  its  occupant  packed  too  tight.  Then 
the  path  left  the  wild  descent;  we  trotted 
through  regular  muddy  roads,  stopped  once 
on  disbanding  our  torch-bearers,  and  reached 
the  Europeanized  hotel  at  Miyanoshita,  where 
I  intend  to  sleep  to-night  on  a  European 
bed,  with  a  bureau  and  a  looking-glass  in  my 
room.  One  little  touch  not  quite  like  ours,  as 
a  gentle  lady  of  uncertain  age  offers  me  her 
services  for  the  relief  of  fatigue  by  massage, 
before  I  descend  to  drink  Bass's  ale  in  the  din- 
ing-room, alongside  of  Britons  from  the  neigh- 
boring Yokohama,  only  one  day's  journey 
farther. 

John  La  Farge. 


THE  WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 

SIXTH    PAPER. 


THE    SALONS    OF    THE    EIGHTEENTH    CENTURY. 


MONG  the  numerous 
salons  of  the  noblesse 
there  was  one  which, 
through  the  brilliant 
gifts  of  its  hostess, 
stands  out  among 
the  most  famous  of 
the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury. Though  far 
less  democratic  and 
cosmopolitan  than  that  of  Mme.  Geoffrin,  with 
which  it  was  contemporary,  it  had  a  distinct 
and  original  tone.  Linked  by  birth  with  the 
oldest  of  the  nobility,  allied  by  innate  qualities 
of  intellect  with  the  most  distinguished  in  the 
world  of  letters,  Mme.  du  Deffand  appropriated 
the  best  in  thought,  while  retaining  the  spirit 
of  an  elegant  and  refined  social  life.  Exclu- 
sive by  nature  and  instinct,  as  well  as  by  tra- 
dition, she  could  not  dispense  with  the  arts 
and  amenities  which  are  the  fruit  of  gene- 
rations of  ease ;  but  the  energy  and  force  of 
her  intellect  could  as  little  tolerate  shallowness 
and  pretension,  however  disguised  beneath 
the  graceful  tyranny  of  forms. 

Hence  her  salon  offers  a  sort  of  compro- 
mise between  the  freedom  of  the  philosophical 
coteries  and  the  frivolities  of  the  purely  fashion- 
able ones.  It  included  the  most  noted  of  the 
men  of  letters,  those  who  belonged  to  the  old 
aristocracy  and  a  few  to  whom  nature  had 
given  a  prescriptive  title  of  nobility,  as  well 
as  the  flower  of  the  great  world.  To  this  com- 
bination her  own  caustic  wit,  her  clear  intelli- 
gence, and  her  brilliant  conversational  gifts 
added  a  tone  of  individuality  that  placed  her 
salon  at  the  head  of  the  social  centers  of  the 
time  in  brilliancy  and  in  esprit. 

In  this  group  of  wits,  litterateurs,  philoso- 
phers, statesmen,  churchmen,  diplomats,  and 
men  of  rank  the  woman  herself  is  always  the 
most  striking  figure.  The  art  of  self-suppres- 
sion she  clearly  did  not  possess.  But  the  art 
of  so  blending  a  choice  society  that  her  own 
vivid  personality  was  a  pervading  note  of  har- 
mony, she  had  to  an  eminent  degree. 

She  could  easily  have  made  a  mark  upon  her 

time  through  her  intellectual  gifts,  without  the 

factitious  aid  of  the  men  with  whom  her  name 

is  associated.    But  society  was  her  passion  — 

878 


society  animated  by  intellect,  sparkling  with 
wit,  and  expressing  in  all  its  forms  the  art 
instincts  of  her  race.  She  never  aspired  to 
authorship,  but  she  has  left  a  voluminous  cor- 
respondence in  which  one  reads  the  varying 
phases  of  a  singularly  capricious  character. 

In  her  old  age  she  found  refuge  from  a  de- 
vouring ennui  in  writing  her  own  memoirs. 
Merciless  to  herself,  as  to  others,  she  veils  noth- 
ing, revealing  her  own  frailties  with  a  freedom 
that  reminds  one  of  Rousseau. 

It  is  not  the  portrait  of  an  estimable  woman 
that  we  can  paint  from  these  records ;  but 
in  her  intellectual  force,  her  social  gifts,  and 
her  moral  weakness  she  is  one  of  the  best 
exponents  of  an  age  that  trampled  upon  the 
finest  flowers  of  the  soul  in  the  blind  pursuit 
of  pleasure  and  the  cynical  worship  of  a  hard 
and  unpitying  realism.  Living  from  1697  to 
1780,  she  saw  the  train  laid  for  the  Revo- 
lution and  died  in  time  to  escape  its  hor- 
rors. She  traversed  the  whole  experience  of 
the  women  of  her  world,  with  the  indepen- 
dence and  abandon  of  a  nature  that  was  mod- 
erate in  nothing. 

It  is  true  she  felt  the  emptiness  of  this  arid 
existence  and  had  an  intellectual  perception 
of  its  errors,  but  she  saw  nothing  better.  "  All 
conditions  appear  to  me  equally  unhappy,  from 
the  angel  to  the  oyster,"  is  the  burden  of  her 
hopeless  refrain. 

She  reveals  herself  to  us  as  two  distinct  char- 
acters. The  one  best  known  is  hard,  bitter, 
coldly  analytic,  and  mocks  at  everything  bor- 
dering upon  sentiment  or  feeling.  The  other, 
which  underlies  this,  and  of  which  we  have 
rare  glimpses,  is  frank,  tender,  loving  even  to 
weakness,  and  forever  at  war  with  the  barren- 
ness of  a  period  whose  worst  faults  she  seems 
to  have  embodied,  and  whose  keenest  penal- 
ties she  certainly  suffered. 

Voltaire,  the  lifelong  friend  whom  she  loved 
and  critically  measured,  was  three  years  old 
when  she  was  born;  Mme.  de  Sevigne  had 
been  dead  nearly  a  year.  Of  a  noble  family  in 
Burgundy,  Mile.  Marie  de  Vichy-Chamroud 
was  brought  to  Paris  at  six  years  of  age  and 
placed  in  the  Convent  of  St.  Madeleine  de 
Troisnel,  where  she  was  educated  after  the 
superficial  fashion  which  she  so  much  regrets 


THE    WOMEN  OE  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


879 


in  later  years.  She  speaks  of  herself  as  a  ro- 
mantic, imaginative  child,  but  she  began  very 
early  to  shock  the  pious  sisters  by  her  dawning 
skepticism. 

One  of  the  nuns  had  a  wax  figure  of  the 
infant  Jesus,  which  she  discovered  to  have 
been  a  doll  formerly  dressed  to  represent  the 
Spanish  fashions  to  Anne  of  Austria.  This  was 
the  first  blow  to  her  illusions  and  had  a  very 
perceptible  influence  upon  her  life.  She  pro- 
nounced it  a  deception.  Eight  days  of  soli- 
tude with  a  diet  of  bread  and  water  failed  to 
restore  her  reverence.  "  It  does  not  depend 
upon  me  to  believe  or  disbelieve,"  she  said. 

The  eloquent  and  insinuating  Massillon  was 
called  in  to  talk  with  her.  "  She  is  charming," 
was  his  remark  as  he  left  her  after  two  hours 
of  conversation;  adding  thoughtfully,  "  Give 
her  a  five-cent  catechism." 

Skeptical  by  nature  and  saturated  with  the 
freethinking  spirit  of  the  time,  she  reasoned  to 
the  end  that  all  religion  was,  au  fond,  only  pa- 
ganism disguised.  In  later  years,  when  her 
isolated  soul  longed  for  some  tangible  support, 
she  spoke  regretfully  of  the  philosophic  age 
which  destroyed  beliefs  by  explaining  and  ana- 
lyzing everything. 

But  a  beautiful,  clever,  high-spirited  girl  of 
sixteen  is  apt  to  feel  her  youth  all-sufficing. 
It  is  certain  that  she  had  no  inclination  to- 
wards the  life  of  a  religiense,  and  the  country 
quickly  became  insupportable  after  her  return 
to  its  provincial  society.  Ennui  took  posses- 
sion of  her.  She  was  glad  even  to  go  to 
confessional  for  the  sake  of  telling  her  thoughts 
to  some  one.  She  complained  bitterly  that 
the  life  of  women  compelled  dependence  upon 
the  conduct  of  others,  submission  to  all  ills 
and  all  consequences.  Long  afterwards  she 
said  that  she  would  have  married  the  devil  if 
he  had  been  clothed  as  a  gentleman  and  as- 
sured her  a  moderate  life. 

But  a  husband  was  at  last  found  for  her, 
and  at  twenty-one  she  was  glad  to  become  the 
wife  of  the  Marquis  du  Deffand, —  a  good  but 
uninteresting  man,  much  older  than  herself, — 
merely  to  escape  the  monotony  of  her  secluded 
existence. 

Brilliant,  fascinating,  restless,  eager  to  see 
and  to  learn,  she  felt  herself  in  her  element  in 
the  gay  world  of  Paris.  She  confessed  that, 
for  the  moment,  she  almost  loved  her  husband 
for  bringing  her  there.  But  the  moment  was  a 
short  one.  They  did  not  even  settle  down  to 
what  a  witty  Frenchman  calls  the  "  politeness 
of  two  indifferences."  It  is  a  curious  commen- 
tary upon  the  times  that  the  beautiful  but  no- 
torious Mme.  Parabere,  who  introduced  her  at 
once  into  her  own  unscrupulous  world  and  the 
petits  soupers  of  the  regent,  condoled  with  the 
spiritnelle  young  bride  upon  her  marriage,  re- 


gretting that  she  had  not  taken  the  easy  vows 
of  a  chanoinesse,  as  Mme.  de  Tencin  had 
done. 

"  In  that  case,"  she  said,  "  you  would  have 
been  free;  well  placed  everywhere;  with  the 
stability  of  a  married  woman ;  a  revenue  which 
permits  one  to  live  and  accept  aid  from  others ; 
the  independence  of  a  widow,  without  the  ties 
which  a  family  imposes;  unquestioned  rank, 
which  you  would  owe  to  no  one ;  indulgence, 
and  impunity.  For  these  advantages  there  is 
only  the  trouble  of  wearing  a  cross,  which  is 
becoming ;  black  or  gray  habits,  which  can  be 
made  as  magnificent  as  one  likes ;  a  little  im- 
perceptible veil,  and  a  knitting  sheath." 

Under  such  teaching  she  was  not  long  in 
taking  her  own  free  and  independent  course, 
which  was  reckless  even  in  that  age  of  laxity. 
At  her  first  supper  at  the  Palais  Royal  she 
met  Voltaire  and  also  the  regent,  whom  she 
fascinated  for  a  few  days.  The  counsels  of  her 
aunt,  the  dignified  Duchessede  Luynes,  availed 
nothing.  Her  husband  was  speedily  sent  off 
on  some  mission  to  the  provinces,  and  she 
plunged  into  the  current.  Once  afterwards,  in 
a  fit  of  ennui,  she  recalled  him,  frankly  stating 
her  position.  But  she  quickly  wearied  of  him 
again,  grew  dull,  silent,  lost  her  vivacity,  and 
fell  into  a  profound  melancholy.  Her  friend 
Mme.  Parabere  took  it  upon  herself  to  explain 
to  him  the  facts,  and  he  kindly  relieved  her  for- 
ever of  his  presence,  leaving  a  touching  and 
pathetic  letter  which  gave  her  a  moment  of 
remorse  in  spite  of  her  lightened  heart.  This 
sin  against  good  taste  the  Parisian  world  could 
not  forgive,  and  even  her  friends  turned  against 
her  for  a  time.  But  the  Duchesse  du  Maine 
came  to  her  aid  with  an  all-powerful  in- 
fluence, and  restored  her  finally  to  its  good 
graces. 

For  some  years  she  passed  the  greater  part  of 
her  time  at  Sceaux  and  was  a  favorite  at  this 
lively  little  court.  It  is  needless  to  trace  here 
the  details  of  a  career  which  gives  us  little  to 
admire  and  much  to  condemn. 

It  was  about  1740  when  her  salon  became 
more  or  less  noted  as  a  center  for  the  fashion- 
able and  literary  world  of  Paris.  Montesquieu 
and  D'Alembert  were  then  among  her  intimate 
friends.  Of  the  latter  she  says  :  "  The  simplic- 
ity of  his  manners,  the  purity  of  his  morals,  the 
air  of  youth,  the  frankness  of  character,  joined 
to  all  his  talents,  astonished  at  first  those  who 
saw  him."  It  is  said  to  have  been  through  her 
zeal  that  he  was  admitted  to  the  Academy  so 
young.  Among  others  who  formed  her  fa- 
miliar circle  were  her  tender  and  devoted 
friend  Pont  de  Veyle ;  the  Chevalier  d'Aydie ; 
Formont,  the  "  spirituel  idler  and  amiable  ego- 
tist," who  was  one  of  the  three  whom  she  con- 
fesses  really  to  have  loved;    and    President 


88o 


THE   WOMEN  OF   THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


Henault,  who  brought  always  a  fund  of  lively- 
anecdote  and  agreeable  conversation.  This 
world  of  fashion  and  letters,  slightly  seasoned 
with  philosophy,  is  also  the  world  of  Mme.  de 
Luxembourg,  of  the  brilliant  Mme.  de  Mire- 
poix,  of  the  Prince  and  Princesse  de  Beauvau, 
and  of  the  lovely  Duchesse  de  Choiseul,  a 
femme  iV  esprit  and  "  mistress  of  all  the  ele- 
gances," whose  gentle  virtues  fall  like  a  ray 
of  sunlight  across  the  dark  pages  of  this  period. 
It  is  the  world  of  les  convenances,  the  world  in 
which  a  sin  against  taste  is  worse  than  a  sin 
against  morals,  the  world  which  hedges  itself 
in  by  a  thousand  unwritten  laws  that  save  it 
from  boredom. 

After  the  death  of  the  Duchesse  du  Maine 
Mme.  du  Deffand  retired  to  the  little  convent 
of  St.  Joseph,  where,  after  the  manner  of  many 
women  of  rank  with  small  fortunes,  she  had 
her  menage  and  received  her  friends.  "  I  have 
a  very  pretty  apartment,"  she  writes  to  Vol- 
taire ;  "  very  convenient ;  I  only  go  out  for 
supper.  I  do  not  sleep  elsewhere,  and  I  make 
no  visits.  My  society  is  not  numerous,  but  I 
am  sure  it  will  please  you;  and  if  you  were 
here  you  would  make  it  yours.  I  have  seen 
for  some  time  many  savants  and  men  of  let- 
ters ;  I  have  not  found  their  society  delightful." 
The  good  nuns  objected  a  little  to  Voltaire  at 
first,  but  seem  to  have  been  finally  reconciled 
to  the  visits  of  the  arch-heretic.  At  this  time 
Mme.  du  Deffand  had  supposably  reformed  her 
conduct,  if  not  her  belief. 

Here  she  continued  to  entertain  the  flower 
of  the  nobility  and  the  stars  of  the  literary  and 
scientific  world.  But  while  the  most  famous 
of  the  men  of  letters  were  welcome  in  her 
salon,  the  tone  was  far  from  pedantic  or  even 
earnest.  It  was  a  society  of  conventional  peo- 
ple, the  elite  of  fashion  and  intelligence,  who 
amused  themselves  in  an  intellectual  but  not 
too  serious  way.  Montesquieu,  who  liked  those 
houses  in  which  he  could  pass  with  his  every- 
day wit,  said,  "I  love  this  woman  with  all 
my  heart ;  she  pleases  and  amuses  me ;  it  is 
impossible  to  feel  a  moment's  ennui  in  her 
company."  She  disliked  the  enthusiasm  of  the 
philosophers  unless  it  was  hidden  behind  the 
arts  of  the  courtier,  as  in  Voltaire,  whose  deli- 
cate satire  charmed  her.  Diderot  came  once, 
"eyed  her  epicurean  friends,"  and  came  no 
more.  The  air  was  not  free  enough.  When 
at  home  she  had  three  or  four  at  supper  every 
day,  often  a  dozen,  and,  once  a  week,  a  grand 
supper.  All  the  intellectual  interests  and  fash- 
ions of  the  time  are  found  here.  La  Harpe 
reads  a  translation  from  Sophocles  and  his  own 
tragedy.  Clairon,  the  actress  in  vogue,  recites 
the  roles  of  Fhedrc  and  Agrippine,  Lekain 
reads  Voltaire,  and  Goldoni  a  comedy  of  his 
own,  which  the  hostess  finds  tiresome.    New 


books,  new  plays,  the  last  song,  the  latest  word 
of  the  philosophers  —  all  are  talked  about, 
eulogized,  or  dismissed  with  a  sarcasm.  The 
caustic  wit  of  Mme.  du  Deffand  is  feared,  but 
it  fascinates.  She  delights  in  clever  repartees 
and  sparkling  epigrams.  Everything  is  touched 
lightly,  but  the  touch  must  be  swift  and  sure. 
A  shaft  of  wit  silences  the  most  complacent 
of  monologues.  "  What  tiresome  book  are  you 
reading  ?  "  she  said  one  day  to  a  friend  who 
talked  too  earnestly  and  too  long,  taking  easy 
refuge  in  her  blindness. 

Her  criticisms  are  always  severe.  "There 
are  only  two  pleasures  for  me  in  the  world  — 
society  and  reading."  She  writes:  "What  so- 
ciety does  one  find  ?  Imbeciles,  who  utter  only 
commonplaces,  who  know  nothing,  feel  noth- 
ing, think  nothing ;  a  few  people  of  talent,  full 
of  themselves,  jealous,  envious,  wicked,  whom 
one  must  hate  or  scorn."  Still  it  is  life  alone 
that  interests  her.  Though  she  is  not  satisfied 
with  people,  she  has  always  the  hope  that  she  will 
be.  In  literature  she  likes  only  letters  and  me- 
moirs, because  they  are  purely  human ;  but  the 
age  has  nothing  that  pleases  her.  "  It  is  cynical 
or  pedantic,"  she  writes  to  Voltaire;  "there  is  no 
grace,  no  facility,  no  imagination.  Everything 
is  a  la  glace\  hardness  without  force,  license 
without  gaiety;  no  talent,  much  presumption." 

As  age  came  on  and  she  felt  the  approach 
of  blindness  she  found  a  companion  in  Mile, 
de  Lespinasse,  a  young  girl  of  remarkable 
gifts  who  had  an  obscure  and  unacknowledged 
connection  with  her  family.  This  relation  lasted 
ten  years,  from  1754  to  1764.  During  this 
period  the  young  woman  was  a  slave  to  the 
caprices  of  her  exacting  mistress,  reading  to 
her  through  long  nights  of  wakeful  restlessness, 
and  assisting  to  entertain  her  guests.  The  one 
thing  upon  which  Mme.  du  Deffand  most 
prided  herself  was  frankness.  She  hated  fi?iesse 
in  any  form,  and  had  stipulated  that  she  would 
not  tolerate  artifice.  Mile,  de  Lespinasse,  with 
her  amiable  character  and  conversational 
charm,  had  endeared  herself  at  once  to  the 
intimate  circle  of  her  patroness,  and  as  Mme. 
du  Deffand,  who  was  in  the  habit  of  lying 
awake  all  night  and  sleeping  all  day,  did  not 
come  down  until  six  o'clock,  she  arranged  to 
see  her  personal  friends,  among  whom  were 
D'Alembert,  Turgot,  Chastellux,  and  Mar- 
montel,  in  her  own  apartments  for  an  hour 
before  the  marquise  appeared.  When  this 
came  to  the  knowledge  of  the  latter  she  was 
in  a  violent  rage  at  what  she  chose  to  regard 
as  a  treachery  to  herself,  and  dismissed  her 
companion  at  once.  The  result  was  the  open- 
ing of  a  rival  salon  which  carried  off  many  of 
her  favorite  guests,  notably  D'Alembert,  to 
whom  she  was  much  attached.  "  If  she  had 
died  fifteen  years  earlier,  I  should  not  have 


THE   WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


88 1 


lost  D'Alembert,"  washer  sympathetic 
remark  when  she  heard  of  the  death 
of  Mile,  de  Lespinasse. 

But  the  most  striking  point  in  the 
career  of  this   worldly  and    cynical 
woman  was  her  friendship  for  Horace 
Walpole.  When  they  first  met  she  was 
nearly  seventy,  blind,  ill-tempered,  bit- 
ter, and  hopelessly  ennuyee.  He  was 
not  yet  fifty,  a  brilliant,  versatile  man  of 
the  world,  who  saw  her  only  at  long 
intervals.    But  their  curious  corre- 
spondence extends  over  a  period 
of  fifteen  years,  ending  only  with 
her  death. 

In  a    letter   to   Grayson, 
after  meeting  her,  he  writes  : 
Vol.  XL.— 115. 


Mme.  du  Deffand  is  now  very  old  and 
stone  blind,  but   retains  all    her  vivacity, 
wit,    memory,    judgment,     passion,    and 
agreeableness.     She  goes  to  operas,  plays, 
suppers,   Versailles  ;   gives    supper    twice 
a  week;  has  everything  new  read  to  her; 
makes  new  songs  and  epigrams, —  aye,  ad- 
mirably,—  and  remembers  every  one  that 
has  been  made  these  fourscore  years.    She 
corresponds  with  Voltaire,  dictates  charm- 
ing letters  to  him,  contradicts  him,  is  no 
bigot  to  him  or  anybody,  and  laughs  both 
at  the  clergy  and  the  philosophers.  In  a 
dispute,  into  which    she  easily  falls, 
she   is  very  warm,  and  yet  scarce 
(?      ever  in  the  wrong;     her  judg- 
ment on  every  subject    is    as 
just  as  possible  ;  on  every  point 
of  conduct  as  wrong  as   pos- 


882 


THE   WOMEN  OE  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


sible ;  for  she  is  all  love  and  hatred,  passionate  for 
her  friends  to  enthusiasm,  still  anxious  to  be  loved, 
—  I  don't  mean  by  lovers, —  and  a  vehement  enemy 
openly. 

The  acquaintance  thus  begun  quickly  drifted 
into  an  intimacy.  Friendship  she  calls  this  ab- 
sorbing sentiment,  but  it  has  all  the  caprices 
and  inconsistencies  of  love.  Fed  by  the  imagi- 
nation and  prevented  by  separation  from  wear- 
ing itself  out,  it  became  the  most  permanent 
interest  of  her  life.  There  is  something  curiously 
pathetic  in  the  submissive  attitude  of  this  blind, 
aged,  but  spirited  woman — who  scoffs  at  senti- 
ment and  confesses  that  she  could  never  love 
anything  —  towards  the  man  who  criticizes  her, 
scolds  her,  crushes  back  her  too  ardent  feeling, 
yet  calls  her  his  dear  old  friend,  writes  her  a 
weekly  letter,  and  modestly  declares  that  she 
"  loves  him  better  than  all  France  together." 

To  this  correspondence  we  owe  the  most 
profound  insight  into  her  life,  and  it  certainly 
modifies  the  impression  which  her  own  words, 
as  well  as  the  facts  of  her  career,  give  us.  We 
find  in  the  letters  of  this  period  little  of  the 
freshness,  the  naturalness,  the  spontaneity,  that 
gave  such  a  charm  to  the  letters  of  Mme.  de 
Sevigne  and  her  contemporaries.  Women 
still  write  of  the  incidents  of  their  lives,  the 
people  they  meet,  their  jealousies,  their  rival- 
ries, their  loves,  and  their  follies;  but  they 
think,  where  they  formerly  mirrored  the  world 
about  them.  They  analyze,  they  compare,  they 
criticize,  they  formulate  their  own  emotions, 
they  add  opinions  to  facts.  The  gaiety,  the 
sparkle,  the  wit,  the  play  of  feeling,  is  not 
there.  Occasionally  there  is  the  tone  of  pas- 
sion, as  in  the  letters  of  Mile.  Aisse  and 
Mile,  de  Lespinasse,  but  this  is  rare.  Even 
passion  has  grown  sophisticated  and  deals  with 
phrases.  There  is  more  or  less  artificiality  in 
the  interchange  of  written  thoughts.  Mme. 
du  DefTand  thinks  while  she  writes,  and  what 
she  sees  takes  always  the  color  of  her  own  in- 
telligence. She  complains  of  her  inability  to 
catch  the  elusive  quality,  the  clearness,  the  flexi- 
bility of  Mme.  de  Sevigne,  whom  she  longs  to 
rival  because  Walpole  so  admires  her.  But  if 
she  lacks  the  vivacity,  the  simplicity,  the  poetic 
grace  of  her  model,  she  has  qualities  not  less 
striking,  though  less  lovable.  Her  keen  insight 
is  unfailing.  With  masterly  penetration  she 
grasps  the  essence  of  things.  No  one  has  por- 
trayed so  concisely  and  so  vividly  the  men 
and  women  of  her  time.  No  one  has  discrimina- 
ted between  the  shades  of  character  with  such 
nicety.  No  one  has  so  clearly  fathomed  the 
underlying  motives  of  action.  No  one  has 
forecast  the  outcome  of  theories  and  events 
with  such  prophetic  vision.  The  note  of  bit- 
terness and  cynicism  is  always  there.  The  na- 
ture of  the  woman  reveals  itself  in  every  line; 


keen,  dry,  critical,  with  clear  ideals  which  she 
can  never  hope  to  attain.  But  we  feel  that 
she  has  stripped  ofT  the  rags  of  pretension  and 
brought  us  face  to  face  with  realities.  So  far 
does  she  carry  her  hatred  of  insincerity  that 
one  is  often  tempted  to  believe  she  affects  a 
freedom  from  affectation.  "  I  am  so  fatigued 
with  the  vanity  of  others  that  I  avoid  the  oc- 
casion of  having  any  myself,"  she  writes.  Is 
there  not  here  a  trace  of  the  quality  she  so 
despises  ? 

But  beneath  all  this  runs  the  swift  under- 
current of  an  absorbing  passion.  A  passion  of 
friendship  it  may  be,  but  it  forces  itself  through 
the  arid  shells  of  conventionalism ;  it  is  at  once 
the  agony  and  the  consolation  of  a  despairing 
soul.  Heartless,  Mme.  du  DefTand  is  called, 
and  her  life  seems  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  ver- 
dict ;  but  these  letters  throb  and  palpitate  with 
feeling  which  she  laughs  at  but  cannot  still. 
It  is  the  cry  of  the  soul  for  what  it  has  not; 
what  the  world  cannot  give ;  what  it  has  some- 
how missed  out  of  a  cold,  hard,  restless,  and 
superficial  existence.  With  a  need  of  loving 
she  is  satisfied  with  no  one.  There  is  some- 
thing wanting  even  in  the  affection  of  her 
friends.  "  Ma  grand1  maman"  she  says  to  the 
gentle  Duchesse  de  Choiseul,  "  you  know  that 
you  love  me,  but  you  do  noty£<?/it." 

Devouring  herself  in  solitude,  she  despises 
the  society  she  cannot  do  without.  "  Men  and 
women  appear  to  me  puppets  who  go,  come, 
talk,  laugh,  without  thinking,  without  reflecting, 
without  feeling,"  she  writes.  She  confesses  that 
she  has  a  thousand  troubles  in  assembling  a 
choice  company  of  people  who  bore  her  to 
death.  "  One  sees  only  masks,  one  hears  only 
lies,"  is  her  constant  refrain.  She  does  not 
want  to  live,  but  is  afraid  to  die ;  she  says  she 
is  not  made  for  this  world,  but  does  not  know 
that  there  is  any  other.  She  tries  devotion,  but 
has  no  taste  for  it.  Of  the  light  that  shines 
from  within  upon  so  many  darkened  and  weary 
souls  she  has  no  knowledge.  Her  vision  is 
bounded  by  the  tangible,  which  offers  only  a 
rigid  barrier  against  which  her  life  flutters 
itself  away.  She  dies  as  she  has  lived,  with  a 
deepened  conviction  of  the  nothingness  of  ex- 
istence. "  Spare  me  three  things,"  she  said  to 
her  confessor  in  her  last  moments ;  "  let  me 
have  no  questions,  no  reasons,  and  no  ser- 
mons." Seeing  Wiart,  her  faithful  servitor,  in 
tears,  she  remarks  pathetically,  as  if  surprised, 
"  You  love  me  then  ?  "  "  Divert  yourself  as 
much  as  you  can,"  was  her  final  message  to 
Walpole.  "  You  will  regret  me,  because  one 
is  very  glad  to  know  that  one  is  loved."  She 
commends  to  his  care  and  affection  Toutou, 
her  little  dog. 

Strong   but   not    gentle,    brilliant   but   not 
tender,  too  penetrating  for  any  illusions,  with 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


.11' 


<*  e5-y%'5 


eS>^ 


^^SjJii-i^" 


a  nature  forever  at  war  with  itself, 
its  surroundings,  and  its  limitations, 
no  one  better  points  the  moral  of 
an  age  without  faith,  without  ideals, 
without  the  inner  light  that  reveals 
to  hope  what  is  denied  to  sense. 

The  influence  of  such  a  woman, 
with  her  gifts,  her  energy,  her 
power,  and  her  social  prestige,  can 
hardly  be  estimated.  It  was  not  in 
the  direction  of  the  new  drift  of 
thought.  "  I  am  not  a  fanatic  as 
to  liberty,"  she  said ;  "  I  believe  it 
is  an  error  to  pretend  that  it  exists 
in  a  democracy.  One  has  a  thou- 
sand tyrants  in  place  of  one."  She 
had  no  breadth  of  sympathy,  and 
her  interests  were  largely  personal ; 
but  in   matters  of  style  and  form 


her  taste  was  unerring.  Pitiless  in 
her  criticisms,  she  held  firmly  to  her 
ideals  of  clear,  elegant,  and  concise: 
expression,  both  in  literature  and  in 
conversation.  She  tolerated  no  plati- 
tudes, no  pretension,  and  left  behind 
her  the  traditions  of  a  society  that 
blended,  more  perfectly,  perhaps,, 
than  any  other  of  her  time,  the  best 
intellectual  life  with  courtly  manners 
and  a  strict  observance  of  les  co?i- 
ve?ia?ices. 

Inseparably  connected  with  the 
name  of  Mme.  du  DerTand  is  that 
of  her  companion  and  rival  Mile. 
de  Lespinasse,  the  gifted  and  charm- 
ing but  tender  and  loving  woman 
who  presided  over  one  of  the  most 


884 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


noted  of  the  philosophical  salons ;  who  was  delirium,  of  romantic  dreams ;  the  era  whose 

the  chosen  friend   and  confidante  of  the  En-  heroine  was  the  loving  and  sentimental  Julie, 

cyclopedists ;  and  who  died  in  her  prime,  of  a  for  whose  portrait  she  might  have  sat,  with  a 

broken  heart,  leaving  the  world  a  legacy  of  shade  or   so  less  of  intellect  and  brilliancy, 

letters    that   rival    those    of   Helo'ise    or    the  But  it  was  more  than  a  romantic  dream  that 

poems  of  Sappho  as  "  immortal  pictures  of  shadowed  and  shortened  the  life  of  Mile,  de 

passion."    The  memory  of  her  social  triumphs,  Lespinasse.    She  had  a  veritable  heart  of  flame, 


FRANCOISE    D'lSSEMBOURG    d'hAPPONCOURT,     DAME    DE    GRAFFIGNY. 


remarkable  as  they  were,  pales  before  the 
singular  romance  of  her  life.  In  the  midst  of 
a  cold,  critical,  and  heartless  society,  that 
adored  talent  and  derided  sentiment,  she  be- 
came the  victim  of  a  passion  so  profound,  so 
ardent,  so  hopeless,  that  her  powerful  intellect 
bent  before  it  like  a  reed  before  a  storm.  She 
died  of  that  unsuspected  passion,  and  years 
afterwards  these  letters  found  the  light  and 
told  the  tale. 

The  contrast  between  the  two  women  so 
closely  linked  together  is  complete.  Mme.  du 
Deffand  belonged  to  the  age  of  Voltaire  by 
every  fiber  of  her  hard  and  cynical  nature. 
What  she  called  love  was  a  fire  of  the  intellect 
which  consumed  without  warming.  It  was  a 
violent  and  fierce  prejudice  in  favor  of  those 
who  reflected  something  of  herself.  The  tender- 
ness of  self-sacrifice  was  not  there.  Mile,  de 
Lespinasse  was  of  the  later  era  of  Rousseau ; 
the  era  of  exaggerated  feeling,  of  emotional 


that   consumed  not   only  itself,  but  its   frail 
tenement  as  well. 

Mile.  Julie  Jeanne  Eleonore  de  Lespinasse, 
who  was  born  at  Lyons  in  1732,  had  a  birth- 
right of  sorrow.  Her  mother,  the  Comtesse 
d'Albon,  could  not  acknowledge  this  fugitive 
and  nameless  daughter,  but  after  the  death  of 
her  husband  she  received  her  on  an  inferior 
footing,  had  her  carefully  educated,  and  se- 
cretly gave  her  love  and  care  so  long  as  she 
lived.  Left  alone  and  without  resources  at  fif- 
teen, Julie  was  taken,  as  governess  and  com- 
panion, into  the  family  of  a  sister  who  was  the 
wife  of  Mme.  du  Deffand's  brother.  Here  the 
marquise  met  her  on  one  of  her  visits  and 
heard  the  story  of  her  sorrows.  Tearful,  sad, 
and  worn  out  by  her  humiliations,  the  young 
girl  had  decided  to  enter  a  convent.  Mme.  du 
Deffand  was  struck  with  her  talent  and  a  cer- 
tain indefinable  fascination  of  manner  which 
afterwards  became   so   potent.     "  You   have 


THE   WOMEN  OF  THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


885 


gaiety,"  she  wrote  to  her;  "you  are  capable 
of  sentiment ;  with  these  qualities  you  will  be 
charming  so  long  as  you  are  natural  and  with- 
out pretension."  After  a  negotiation  of  some 
months,  Mile,  de  Lespinasse  went  to  Paris  to 
live  with  her  new  friend.  The  history  of  this 
affair  has  been  already  related. 

Parisian  society  was  divided  into  two  fac- 
tions on  the  merits  of  the  quarrel  —  those 
who  censured  the  ingratitude  of  the  younger 
woman,  and  those  who  accused  the  marquise 
of  cruelty  and  injustice.  But  many  of  the 
oldest  friends  of  the  latter  aided  her  rival. 
The  Marechale  de  Luxembourg  furnished 
her  apartments  in  the  Rue  Belle-Chasse.  The 
Due  de  Choiseul  procured  her  a  pension,  and 
Mme.  Geoffrin  gave  her  an  annuity.  She  carried 
with  her  a  strong  following  of  eminent  men 
from  the  salon  of  Mme.  du  Deffand,  among 
whom  was  D'Alembert,  who  remained  her 
faithful  and  devoted  lover  to  the  end.  It  is 
said  that  President  Henault  even  offered  to 
marry  her,  but  how  he  managed  to  continue 
in  the  good  graces  of  his  lifelong  friend  the 
unforgiving  marquise  does  not  appear.  A 
letter  which  he  wrote  to  Mile,  de  Lespinasse 
throws  a  direct  light  upon  her  character,  after 


erally,  though  it  happens  that  all  the  world  pleases 
you  ;  you  know  even  how  to  avoid  repelling  those 
who  are  least  agreeable  to  you. 

This  epitome  of  the  art  of  pleasing  may  be 
commended  for  its  wisdom,  aside  from  the 
very  delightful  picture  it  gives  of  an  amiable 
and  attractive  woman.    Again  he  writes  : 

The  excellence  of  your  tone  would  not  be  a  dis- 
tinction for  one  reared  in  a  court,  and  speaking  only 
the  language  she  has  learned.  In  you  it  is  a  merit 
very  real  and  very  rare.  You  have  brought  it  from 
the  seclusion  of  a  province,  where  you  met  no  one 
who  could  teach  you.  You  were,  in  this  regard,  as 
perfect  the  day  after  your  arrival  at  Paris  as  you 
are  to-day.  You  found  yourself,  from  the  first,  as 
free,  as  little  out  of  place  in  the  most  brilliant 
and  most  critical  society,  as  if  you  had  passed  your 
life  there;  you  have  felt  its  usages  before  know- 
ing them,  which  implies  a  justness  and  fineness  of 
tact  very  unusual,  an  exquisite  knowledge  of  Us  con- 
venances. 

It  was  her  innate  tact  and  social  instinct, 
combined  with  rare  gifts  of  intellect  and  great 
conversational  charm,  that  gave  this  woman 
without  name,  beauty,  or  fortune  so  excep- 
tional a  position,  and  her  salon  so  distinct  a 
vogue  among  the  brilliant  centers  of  Paris. 


making  due  allowance  for  the  exaggeration  of    As  she  was  not  rich  and  could  not  give  costly 


French  gallantry. 

You  are  cosmopolitan  ;  you  adapt  yourself  to  all 
situations.  The  world  pleases  you  ;  you  love  soli- 
tude. Society  amuses  you,  but  it  does  not  seduce 
you.  Your  heart  does  not  give  itself  easily.  Strong 
passions  are  necessary  to  you,  and  it  is  better  so, 
for  they  will  not  return  often.  Nature,  in  placing 
you  in  an  ordinary  position,  has  given  you  some- 
thing to  relieve  it.  Your  soul  is  noble  and  ele- 
vated, and  you  will  never  remain  in  a  crowd.  It 
is  the  same  with  your  person.  It  is  distinguished 
and  attracts  attention,  without  being  beautiful. 
There  is  something  piquaute  about  you.  You  have 
two  things  which  do  not  often  go  together :  you 
are  sweet  and  strong  ;  your  gaiety  adorns  you  and 
relaxes  your  nerves,  which  are  too  tense.  You  see 
everything  at  a  glance  ;  you  are  extremely  polished  ; 
you  have  divined  the  world. 

The  age  of  portraits  was  not  quite  passed, 
and  the  privilege  of  seeing  one's  self  in  the  eyes 
of  one's  friends  was  still  accorded,  a  fact  to 
which  we  owe  many  vivid  if  sometimes  rather 
highly  colored  pictures.  A  few  words  from 
D'Alembert  are  of  twofold  interest.  He  writes 
some  years  later : 

The  regard  one  has  for  you  does  not  depend  alone 
upon  your  external  charms  ;  it  depends,  above  all, 
upon  your  intellect  and  your  character.  That  which 
distinguis'hes  you  in  society  is  the  art  of  saying  to 
every  one  the  fitting  word,  and  that  art  is  very  sim- 
ple with  you ;  it  consists  in  never  speaking  of  your- 
self to  others,  and  much  of  themselves.  It  is  an 
infallible  means  of  pleasing ;  also,  you  please  g^n- 
Vol.  XL.—  116. 


dinners,  she  saw  her  friends  daily  from  five 
to  nine,  in  the  interval  between  other  engage- 
ments. A  hint  of  the  rivalry  between  her  and 
her  former  friend  is  given  in  a  letter  from 
Horace  Walpole. 

"  There  is  at  Paris,"  he  writes,  "  a  Mile, 
de  Lespinasse,  a  pretended  bel  esprit,  who  was 
formerly  a  humble  companion  of  Mme.  du 
Deffand,  and  betrayed  her  and  used  her  very 
ill.  I  beg  of  you  not  to  let  any  one  carry  you 
thither.  I  dwell  upon  this  because  she  has  some 
enemies  so  spiteful  as  to  try  to  carry  off  all 
the  English  to  Mile,  de  Lespinasse." 

But  this  "  pretended  bel  esprit "  had  socially 
the  touch  of  genius.  Her  ardent,  impulsive 
nature  lent  to  her  conversation  a  rare  eloquence 
that  inspired  her  listeners,  though  she  could 
be  silent  as  well,  and  never  drifted  into  mono- 
logue. Versatile  and  suggestive  herself,  she 
knew  how  to  draw  out  the  best  thoughts  of 
others.  Her  swift  insight  caught  the  weak 
points  of  her  friends,  and  her  gracious  adap- 
tation had  all  the  fascination  of  a  subtle  flat- 
tery. Sad  as  her  experience  had  been,  she 
had  nevertheless  been  drawn  into  the  world 
most  congenial  to  her  tastes.  "  Ah,  how  I  dis- 
like not  to  love  that  which  is  excellent,"  she 
wrote  to  Guibert  later.  "  How  difficult  I  have 
become  !  But  is  it  my  fault  ?  Consider  the  ed- 
ucation I  have  received  with  Mme.  du  Def- 
fand. President  Henault,  Abbe  Bon,  the 
Archbishop  of  Toulouse,  the  Archbishop  of 
Aix,  Turgot,  D'Alembert,  Abbe  de  Boismont 


886 


THE   WOMEN  OF   THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


—  these  are  the  men  who  have  taught  me  to 
speak,  to  think,  and  who  have  deigned  to  count 
me  for  something." 

It  was  such  men  as  these  who  thronged  her 
own  salon,  but  its  tone  was  more  philosophi- 
cal than  that  of  Mme.  du  DerTand.  Though 
far  from  democratic  by  taste  or  temperament, 
she  was  so  from  conviction.  The  griefs  and 
humiliations  of  her  life  had  left  her  peculiarly- 
open  to  the  new  social  and  political  theories 
which  were  agitating  France.  She  liked  free 
discussion,  and  her  own  large  intelligence, 
added  to  her  talent  for  calling  out  and  giving 
point  to  the  ideas  of  others,  went  far  towards 
making  the  cosmopolitan  circle  over  which 
she  presided  one  of  the  most  potent  forces  of 
the  time.  Her  influence  may  be  traced  in  the 
work  of  the  Encyclopedists,  which  she  did 
more  than  any  one  else  to  aid  and  encourage, 
and  in  which  she  was  associated.  As  a  power 
in  the  making  of  reputations  and  in  the  elec- 
tion of  members  to  the  Academie  Frangaise 
she  shared  with  Mme.  Geoffrin  the  honor 
of  being  a  legitimate  successor  of  Mme.  de 
Lambert. 

But  the  side  of  her  character  which  strikes 
us  most  forcibly  at  this  distance  of  time  is  the 
emotional.  The  personal  charm  which  is  al- 
ways so  large  a  factor  in  social  success  is  of 
too  subtle  a  quality  to  be  caught  in  words. 
The  most  vivid  portrait  leaves  a  divine  some- 
thing to  be  supplied  by  the  imagination,  and 
the  fascination  of  eloquence  is  gone  with  the 
flash  of  the  eye,  the  modulation  of  the  voice, 
or  some  fleeting  grace  of  manner.  But  passion 
writes  itself  out  in  indelible  characters,  espe- 
cially when  it  is  a  rare  and  spontaneous  over- 
flow from  the  heart  of  a  man  or  woman  of 
genius,  whose  emotions  readily  crystallize  into 
form. 

Her  friendship  for  D'Alembert,  loyal  and 
devoted  as  it  was,  seems  to  have  been  without 
illusions.  It  is  true  she  had  cast  aside  every 
other  consideration  to  nurse  him  through  a 
dangerous  illness,  and  as  soon  as  he  was  able 
he  had  been  removed  to  an  apartment  in  her 
own  house  where  he  lived  until  her  death,  a 
position  which  excited  neither  remark  nor 
criticism.  But  he  was  not  rich,  and,  though 
he  loved  her,  marriage  was  not  to  be  thought 
of,  at  least  by  her.  She  was  ambitious  for  a 
more  brilliant  career.  Not  long  after  leaving 
Mme.  du  DerTand  she  met  the  Marquis  de 
Mora,  a  son  of  the  Spanish  ambassador,  who 
became  a  constant  habitue  of  her  salon.  Of 
distinguished  family  and  large  fortune,  bril- 
liant, courtly,  popular,  and  only  twenty-four, 
he  captivated  at  once  the  fiery  heart  of  this 
attractive  woman  of  thirty-five.  It  seems  to 
have  been  a  mutual  passion,  as  during  one 
brief  absence  of  ten  days  he  wrote  her  twenty- 


two  letters.  But  his  family  became  alarmed 
at  this  continued  devotion,  and  made  his  deli- 
cate health  a  pretext  for  recalling  him  to 
Spain.  Her  grief  at  the  separation  enlisted 
the  sympathy  of  D'Alembert.  At  her  request 
he  procured  from  his  physician  a  statement 
that  the  climate  of  Madrid  would  prove  fatal 
to  M.  de  Mora,  whose  health  had  steadily 
failed  since  his  return  home,  and  that  if  his 
friends  wished  to  save  him  they  must  lose  no 
time  in  sending  him  back  to  Paris.  The  young 
man  was  permitted  to  leave  at  once,  but  he 
died  en  route  at  Bordeaux. 

In  the  mean  time  Mile,  de  Lespinasse,  sad 
and  inconsolable,  had  met  M.  Guibert,  a  man  of 
great  versatility  and  many  accomplishments, 
whose  genius  seems  to  have  borne  no  ade- 
quate fruit.  We  hear  of  him  later  through 
the  passing  enthusiasm  of  Mme.  de  Stael,  of 
whom  he  wrote  a  brilliant  and  flattering  pen- 
portrait  when  she  was  twenty.  Mile,  de  Les- 
pinasse was  forty.  He  was  twenty -nine,  had 
competed  for  the  Academie  Frangaise,  writ- 
ten a  work  on  military  science,  also  a  national 
tragedy  which  was  still  unpublished.  She  was 
dazzled  by  his  brilliancy,  and  when  she  fath- 
omed his  shallow  nature,  as  she  did,  it  was  too 
late  to  disentangle  her  heart.  He  was  a  man 
of  gallantry  and  was  flattered  by  the  preference 
of  a  woman  much  in  vogue,  who  had  powerful 
friends,  influence  at  the  Academy,  and  the 
ability  to  advance  his  interest  in  many  ways. 
He  clearly  condescended  to  be  loved,  but  his 
own  professions  have  little  of  the  true  ring. 

Distracted  by  this  new  passion  on  one  side, 
and  by  remorse  for  her  disloyalty  to  the  old 
one  on  the  other,  the  health  of  Mile,  de  Les- 
pinasse, already  undermined,  began  to  succumb 
to  the  hidden  struggle.  The  death  of  M.  de 
Mora  solved  one  problem ;  the  other  re- 
mained. M.  Guibert  wished  to  advance  his 
fortune  by  a  brilliant  marriage  without  losing 
the  friend  who  might  still  be  of  service  to  him. 
She  sat  in  judgment  upon  her  own  fate,  coun- 
seled him,  aided  him  in  his  choice,  even  praised 
the  woman  who  became  his  wife,  hoping  still, 
perhaps,  for  some  repose  in  that  exaltation  of 
friendship  which  is  often  the  last  consolation 
of  passionate  souls.  But  she  was  on  a  path 
that  led  to  no  haven  of  peace.  There  was  only 
a  blank  wall  before  her,  and  the  lightning  im- 
pulses of  her  own  heart  were  forced  back  to 
wear  her  frail  life  away.  The  world  was  ig- 
norant of  this  fresh  experience ;  and,  believing 
her  crushed  by  the  death  of  M.  de  Mora,  sym- 
pathized with  her  sorrow  and  praised  her 
fidelity.  She  tried  to  sustain  a  double  role  — 
smiles  and  gaiety  for  her  friends,  tears  and 
agony  for  the  long  hours  of  solitude.  The  ten- 
sion was  too  much  for  her.  She  died  shortly 
afterwards  at  the  age  of  forty-three. 


THE   WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


887 


It  was  not  until  many  years  later,  when 
those  most  interested  were  gone,  that  the  let- 
ters to  Guibert,  which  form  her  chief  title  to 
fame,  were  collected,  and,  curiously  enough,  by 
his  widow.  Then  for  the  first  time  the  true 
drama  of  her  life  was  unveiled.  It  is  impossi- 
ble-in  a  few  extracts  to  convey  an  adequate 
idea  of  the  passion  and  devotion  that  ran 
through  these  letters.  They  touched  the  en- 
tire gamut  of  emotion,  from  the  tender  mel- 
ancholy of  a  lonely  soul,  the  inexpressible 
sweetness  of  self- forgetful  love,  to  the  tragic 
notes  of  agony  and  despair. 

"  I  prefer  my  misery  to  all  that  the  world 
calls  happiness  or  pleasure,"  she  writes.  "  I 
shall  die  of  it,  perhaps,  but  that  is  better  than 
never  to  have  lived." 

"  I  have  no  more  the  strength  to  love,"  she 
says  again :  "  my  soul  fatigues  me,  torments  me; 
I  am  no  more  sustained  by  anything.  I  have 
every  day  a  fever;  and  my  physician,  who  is 
not  the  most  skillful  of  men,  repeats  to  me 
without  ceasing  that  I  am  consumed  by  cha- 
grin, that  my  pulse,  my  respiration,  announce 
an  active  grief,  and  he  always  goes  out  say- 
ing, '  We  have  no  cure  for  the  soul.' " 

"  Adieu,  my  friend,"  were  her  last  words  to 
him.  "  If  I  ever  return  to  life  I  shall  still  love 
to  employ  it  in  loving  you;  but  there  is  no 
more  time." 

One  could  almost  wish  that  these  letters  had 
never  come  to  light.  A  single  grand  passion 
has  always  a  strong  hold  upon  the  imagina- 
tion and  the  sympathies,  but  two  passions  con- 
tending for  the  mastery  verge  upon  something 
quite  the  reverse  of  heroic.  The  note  of  heart- 
breaking despair  is  tragic  enough,  but  there 
is  a  touch  of  comedy  behind  it.  Though  her 
words  have  the  fire,  the  devotion,  the  abando?i 
of  Heloise,  they  leave  a  certain  sense  of  dis- 
proportion. One  is  inclined  to  wonder  if  they 
do  not  overtop  the  feeling. 

D'Alembert  was  her  truest  mourner,  and  fell 
into  a  profound  melancholy  after  her  death. 

"  Yes,"  he  said  to  Marmontel,  "  she  was 
changed,  but  I  was  not ;  she  no  longer  lived 
for  me,  but  I  ever  lived  for  her.  Since  she  is 
no  more,  I  know  not  why  I  live.  Ah !  why 
have  I  not  still  to  suffer  those  moments  of  bit- 
terness that  she  knew  so  well  how  to  sweeten 
and  make  me  forget  ?  Do  you  remember  the 
happy  evenings  we  passed  together  ?  Now 
what  have  I  left  ?  I  return  home,  and  instead 
of  herself  I  find  but  her  shade.  This  lodging 
at  the  Louvre  is  itself  a  tomb,  which  I  never 
enter  but  with  horror." 

But  to  this  "  shade  "  he  wrote  two  expres- 
sive and  well-considered  eulogies. 

Whatever  we  may  think  of  the  strange  in- 
consistencies of  Mile,  de  Lespinasse,  she  is  in- 
teresting to  us  as  a  type  that  contrasts  strongly 


with  that  of  her  age.  Her  exquisite  tact,  her 
brilliant  intellect,  her  conversational  gifts, 
her  personal  charm,  made  her  the  idol  of 
the  world  in  which  she  lived.  Her  influence 
was  courted,  her  salon  was  the  resort  of  the 
most  distinguished  men  of  the  century,  and 
while  she  loved  to  discuss  the  great  social 
problems  which  her  friends  were  trying  to 
solve  she  forgot  none  of  the  graces.  With  the 
intellectual  strength  and  grasp  of  a  man,  she 
had  the  taste,  the  delicacy,  the  tenderness  of 
a  woman.  Her  faults  were  those  of  a  strong 
nature.  Her  thoughts  were  clear  and  pene- 
trating, though  faintly  tinged  with  romance ; 
her  expression  was  lively  and  impassioned. 
But  in  her  emotional  power  she  reached  the 
proportion  of  genius.  With  "  the  most  ardent 
soul,  the  liveliest  fancy,  the  most  inflammable 
imagination  that  has  existed  since  Sappho," 
she  represents  the  embodied  spirit  of  tragedy 
outlined  against  the  cold,  hard  background  of 
a  skeptical,  mocking,  realistic  age. 

There  was  one  woman  who  held  too  promi- 
nent a  place  in  the  society  of  this  period  to  be 
passed  without  a  word,  though  she  was  not 
French,  and  never  quite  caught  the  spirit  of 
the  eighteenth-century  life  whose  attractive 
forms  she  loved  so  well.  Mme.  Necker,  whose 
history  has  been  made  so  familiar  through 
the  interesting  memoirs  of  the  Comte  d'Haus- 
sonville,  owes  her  fame  to  her  marked  quali- 
ties of  intellect  and  character  rather  than 
to  the  brilliancy  of  her  social  talents.  These 
formed  an  admirable  setting  in  the  surroundings 
which  her  husband's  fortune  and  political  career 
gave  her.  The  Salon  Helvetique  had  a  distinc- 
tive color  of  its  own,  and  was  always  tinged 
with  the  strong  convictions  and  exalted  ideals 
of  the  Swiss  pastor's  daughter  who  passed 
through  this  world  of  intellectual  affluence 
and  moral  laxity  like  a  white  angel  of  purity 
— in  it,  but  not  of  it.  The  center  of  a  choice 
and  lettered  circle  which  included  the  most 
noted  men  and  women  of  her  time,  she  brought 
into  it  not  only  rare  gifts,  a  fine  taste,  and 
genuine  literary  enthusiasm,  but  the  fresh  charm 
of  a  noble  character  and  a  beautiful  family  life, 
with  the  instincts  of  duty  and  right  conduct 
which  she  inherited  from  her  simple  Protestant 
ancestry.  She  lacked  a  little,  however,  in  the 
tact,  the  ease,  the  grace,  the  spontaneity,  which 
were  the  essential  charm  of  the  French  women. 
Her  social  talents  were  a  trifle  theoretical. 
"  She  studied  society,"  says  one  of  her  critics, 
"  as  she  would  a  literary  question."  She  had 
a  theory  of  conducting  a  salon,  as  she  had  of 
life  in  general,  and  believed  that  study  would 
attain  everything.  But  the  ability  to  do  a  thing 
superlatively  well  is  by  no  means  always  im- 
plied in  the  knowledge  of  how  it  ought  to  be 
done.    Social  genius  is  as  purely  a  gift  of  na- 


888 


THE   WOMEN  OE  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


ture  as  poetry  or  music ;  and,  of  all  others,  it 
is  the  most  subtle  and  indefinable.  It  was  a 
long  step  from  the  primitive  simplicity  of  her 
childhood  to  the  complex  life  of  a  Parisian 
salon;  and  the  provincial  beauty,  whose  fair 
face,  soft  blue  eyes,  dignified  but  slightly 
coquettish  manner,  brilliant  intellect,  and 
sparkling  though  sometimes  rather  learned 
conversation  had  made  her  a  local  queen,  was 
quick  to  see  her  own  shortcomings.  She  con- 
fessed that  she  had  a  new  language  to  learn, 
and  she  never  mastered  it  like  a  native.  "  Mme. 
Necker  has  talent,  but  it  is  in  a  sphere  too 
elevated  for  one  to  communicate  with  her," 
said  Mme.  du  Deffand,  though  she  was  glad 
to  go  once  a  week  to  her  suppers  at  Saint-Ouen, 
and  admitted  that  in  spite  of  a  certain  stiffness 
and  coldness  she  was  better  fitted  for  society 
than  most  of  the  grandes  dames. 

The  salon  of  Mme.  Necker  marks  a  transi- 
tion point  between  two  periods,  and  had  two 
quite  distinct  phases.  One  likes  best  to  recall 
her  in  the  freshness  of  her  early  enthusiasm, 
when  she  gave  Friday  dinners,  modeled  after 
those  of  Mme.  GeofTrin,  to  men  of  letters,  and 
received  a  larger  world  in  the  evening ;  when 
her  guests  were  enlivened  by  the  satire  of  Di- 
derot, the  anecdotes  of  Marmontel,  the  bril- 
liancy or  learning  of  Grimm,  D'Alembert, 
Thomas,  Suard,  Buffon,  the  Abbe  Raynal,  and 
other  wits  of  the  day ;  when  they  discussed  the 
affairs  of  the  Academy  and  decided  the  fate 
of  candidates ;  when  they  listened  to  the  reci- 
tations of  Mile.  Clairon,  and  the  works  of  many 
authors  known  and  unknown.  It  is  interesting 
to  know  that  "  Paul  and  Virginia  "  was  first 
read  here.  But  there  was  apt  to  be  a  shade  of 
stiffness,  and  the  conversation  had  sometimes 
too  strong  a  flavor  of  pedantry.  "  No  one 
knows  better  or  feels  more  sensibly  than  you, 
my  dear  and  very  amiable  friend,"  wrote  Mme. 
GeofTrin,  "  the  charm  of  friendship  and  its 
sweetness;  no  one  makes  others  experience 
them  more  fully.  But  you  will  never  attain 
that  facility,  that  ease,  and  that  liberty  which 
give  to  society  its  perfect  enjoyment."  The 
Abbe  Morellet  complained  of  the  austerity  that 
always  held  the  conversation  within  certain 
limits,  and  the  gay  little  Abbe  Galiani  found 
fault  with  Mme.  Necker's  coldness  and  reserve, 
though  he  addresses  her  as  his  "  Divinity  "  after 
his  return  to  Naples,  and  his  racy  letters  give 
us  vivid  and  amusing  pictures  of  these  Fridays, 
which  in  his  memory  are  wholly  charming. 

In  spite  of  her  firm  religious  convictions, 
Mme.  Necker  cordially  welcomed  the  most 
extreme  of  the  philosophers.  "  I  have  atheis- 
tic friends,"  she  said.  "  Why  not  ?  They  are 
unfortunate  friends."  But  her  admiration  for 
their  talents  by  no  means  extended  to  their 
opinions,  and  she  did  not  permit  the  discus- 


sion of  religious  questions.  It  was  at  one  of 
her  own  dinners  that  she  started  the  subscrip- 
tion for  a  statue  of  Voltaire,  for  whom  she  en- 
tertained the  warmest  friendship.  One  may 
note  here,  as  elsewhere,  a  fine  mental  poise,  a 
justness  of  spirit,  and  a  discrimination  that  was 
superior  to  natural  prejudices.  Sometimes  her 
frank  simplicity  was  misunderstood.  "  There 
is  a  Mme.  Necker  here,  a  pretty  woman  and 
a  del  esprit,  who  is  infatuated  with  me.  She 
persecutes  me  to  have  me  at  her  house,"  wrote 
Diderot — who  was  clearly  incapable  of  com- 
prehending the  innocent  appreciation  of  a  pure- 
hearted  woman  —  to  Mile.  Volland.  When  he 
knew  her  better,  he  expressed  his  regret  that 
he  had  not  known  her  sooner.  "  You  would 
certainly  have  inspired  me  with  a  taste  for 
purity  and  for  delicacy,"  he  says,  "  which  would 
have  passed  from  my  soul  into  my  works." 
He  refers  to  her  again  as  "  a  woman  who  pos- 
sesses all  that  the  purity  of  an  angelic  soul 
adds  to  an  exquisite  taste." 

Among  the  many  distinguished  foreigners 
who  found  their  way  into  this  pleasant  circle 
was  her  early  lover,  Gibbon.  The  old  days 
were  far  away  when  she  presided  over  the  lit- 
erary coterie  at  Lausanne,  speculated  upon  the 
mystery  of  love,  talked  of  the  possibility  of 
tender  and  platonic  friendships  between  men 
and  women,  after  the  fashion  of  the  ftrecieuses, 
and  wept  bitter  tears  over  the  faithlessness  of 
the  embryo  historian.  The  memory  of  her 
grief  had  long  been  lost  in  the  fullness  of  her 
subsequent  happiness,  and  she  might  be  par- 
doned a  certain  natural  complacency  in  the 
brilliancy  of  her  position,  which  took  little 
added  luster  from  the  fame  of  the  man  who 
had  wooed  and  so  easily  forgotten  her. 

This  period  of  Mine.  Necker's  career  shows 
her  character  on  a  very  engaging  side.  Lov- 
ing her  husband  with  a  devotion  that  verged 
upon  idolatry,  she  was  rich  in  the  friendship 
of  men  like  Thomas,  Buffon,  Grimm,  Diderot, 
and  Voltaire,  whose  respectful  tone  was  the 
highest  tribute  to  her  dignity  and  her  delicacy. 
But  the  true  nature  of  a  woman  is  best  seen  in 
her  relations  with  her  own  sex.  There  are  a 
thousand  fine  reserves  in  her  relations  with 
men  that,  in  a  measure,  veil  her  personality. 
They  doubtless  call  out  the  most  brilliant  qual- 
ities of  her  intellect,  and  reveal  her  character, 
in  some  points,  on  its  best  and  most  lovable 
side ;  but  the  rarer  shades  of  generous  and  un- 
selfish feeling  are  more  clearly  seen  in  the  in- 
timate friendships,  free  from  petty  vanities  and 
jealous  rivalries,  rich  in  cordial  appreciation 
and  disinterested  affection,  which  we  often  find 
among  women  of  the  finest  type.  It  is  impos- 
sible that  one  so  serious  and  so  earnest  as  Mme. 
Necker  should  have  cherished  such  passionate 
friendships  for  her  own  sex  if  she  had  been 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


889 


as  cold  or  as  calculating  as  she  has  been  some- 
times represented.  Her  intimacy  with  Mme. 
de  Marchais,  of  which  her  descendant  and 
biographer  has  given  us  so  many  pleasant 
details,  furnishes  a  case  in  point. 

This  graceful  and  vivacious  woman,  who 
talked  so  eloquently  upon  philosophical,  po- 
litical, and  economic  questions,  was  the  cen- 
ter of  a  circle  noted  for  its  liberal  tendencies. 
A  friend  of  Mme.  de  Pompadour,  at  whose 
suppers  she  often  sang,  gifted,  witty,  and,  in 
spite  of  a  certain  seriousness  aufond,  retaining 
always  the  taste,  the  elegance,  the  charming 
manners  which  were  her  native  heritage,  she 
attracted  to  her  salon  not  only  a  distinguished 
literary  company,  but  many  men  and  women 
from  the  great  world  of  which  she  only  touched 
the  borders.  Mme.  Necker  had  sought  her 
aid  and  advice  in  the  formation  of  her  own 
salon,  and  taken  for  her  one  of  those  ardent 
attachments  so  characteristic  of  earnest  and 
susceptible  natures.  "  I  had  for  Mme.  de 
Marchais  a  passionate  affection,"  she  says. 
"  When  I  first  saw  her  my  whole  soul  was  cap- 
tivated. I  thought  her  one  of  those  enchant- 
ing fairies  who  combine  all  the  gifts  of  nature 
and  of  magic.  I  loved  her ;  or,  rather,  I  idol- 
ized her."  So  pure,  so  confiding,  so  far  above 
reproach  herself,  she  refuses  to  see  the  faults 
of  one  she  loves  so  tenderly.  Her  letters  glow 
with  exalted  sentiment.  "  Adieu,  my  charm- 
ing, my  beautiful,  my  sweet  friend,"  she  writes. 
"  I  embrace  you.  I  press  you  to  my  bosom ; 
or,  rather,  to  my  soul,  for  it  seems  to  me  that 
no  interval  can  separate  yours  from  mine." 

But  the  character  of  Mme.  de  Marchais  was 
evidently  not  equal  to  her  fascination.  Her 
vanity  was  wounded  by  the  success  of  her 
friend.  She  took  offense  at  a  trifling  incident 
that  touched  her  self-love.  "  The  great  ladies 
have  disgusted  me  with  friendship,"  she  wrote, 
in  reply  to  Mme.  Necker's  efforts  to  repair  the 
breach.  They  exchanged  the  letters  so  full  of 
vows  of  eternal  affection  and  were  friends  no 
more.  Apparently  without  any  fault  of  her 
own  Mme.  Necker  was  left  with  an  illusion 
the  less,  and  the  world  has  another  example  to 
cite  of  the  frail  texture  of  feminine  friendships. 

But  she  was  not  always  so  unfortunate  in 
her  choice.  She  found  a  more  amiable  and 
constant  object  for  her  affections  in  Mme. 
d'Houdetot,  a  charming  woman  who,  in  spite 
of  her  errors,  held  a  very  warm  place  in  the 
hearts  of  her  contemporaries.  We  have  met 
her  before  in  the  philosophical  circles  of  La 
Chevrette,  and  in  the  beautiful  promenades  of 
the  valley  of  Montmorency,  where  Rousseau 
offered  her  the  incense  of  a  passionate  and 
poetic  love.  She  was  facile  and  witty,  graceful 
and  gay,  said  wise  and  thoughtful  things,  wrote 
pleasant  verses  which  were  the  exhalations  of 


her  own  heart,  and  was  the  center  of  a  lim- 
ited though  distinguished  circle ;  but  her  chief 
attraction  was  the  magic  of  a  sunny  temper  and 
a  loving  spirit.  "He  only  is  unhappy  who  can 
neither  love,  nor  work,  nor  die,"  she  writes. 
Though  more  or  less  linked  with  the  literary 
coteries  of  her  time,  Mme.  d'Houdetot  seems 
to  have  been  singularly  free  from  the  small 
vanities  and  vulgar  ambitions  so  often  met 
there.  She  loved  simple  pleasures  and  the 
peaceful  scenes  of  the  country.  "  What  more 
have  we  to  desire  when  we  can  enjoy  the 
pleasures  of  friendship  and  of  nature  ?  "  she 
writes.  "  We  may  then  pass  lightly  over  the 
small  troubles  of  life."  She  counsels  repose  to 
her  more  restless  friend,  and  her  warm  expres- 
sions of  affection  have  always  the  ring  of  sin- 
cerity, which  contrasts  agreeably  with  the 
artificial  tone  of  the  time.  Mme.  d'Houdetot 
lived  to  a  great  age,  preserving  always  her 
youthfulness  of  spirit  and  sweet  serenity  of 
temper  in  spite  of  sharp  domestic  sorrows. 
She  took  refuge  from  these  in  the  lifelong 
friendship  of  Saint- Lambert,  for  whom  Mme. 
Necker  has  usually  a  gracious  message.  It  is 
a  curious  commentary  upon  the  manners  of 
the  age  that  one  so  rigid  and  severe  should 
have  chosen  for  her  intimate  companionship 
two  women  whose  lives  were  so  far  removed 
from  her  own  ideal  of  reserved  decorum.  But 
she  thought  it  best  to  ignore  errors  which  her 
world  did  not  regard  as  grave,  if  she  was  con- 
scious of  them  at  all. 

One  finds  greater  pleasure  in  recalling  her 
ardent  and  romantic  affection  for  the  grand- 
daughter of  the  Marechale  de  Luxembourg, 
the  lovely  Amelie  de  Boufflers,  Duchesse  de 
Lauzun,  whose  pen-portrait  she  sketched  so 
gracefully  and  so  tenderly ;  whose  gentle  sweet- 
ness and  shy  delicacy,  in  the  rather  oppressive 
glare  of  her  surroundings,  suggest  a  modest 
wild  flower  astray  among  the  pretentious  beau- 
ties of  the  hothouse ;  and  whose  untimely 
death  on  the  scaffold  has  left  her  fragrant 
memory  entwined  with  a  garland  of  cypress. 
But  we  cannot  dwell  upon  the  intimate  phases 
of  this  friendship  whose  fine  quality  is  shown 
in  the  few  scattered  leaves  of  a  correspon- 
dence overflowing  with  the  wealth  of  two  rare 
though  unequally  gifted  natures. 

At  a  later  period  her  husband's  position  in 
the  ministry,  and  the  pronounced  opinions  of 
her  brilliant  daughter,  gave  to  the  salon  of 
Mme.  Necker  a  marked  political  and  semi- 
revolutionary  coloring.  As  Mme.  de  Stael 
gradually  took  the  scepter  that  was  falling 
from  her  own  hand,  she  found  it  difficult  to 
guide  the  conversation  into  its  old  channels ;  but 
her  inclinations  always  led  her  to  literary  di- 
versions, rather  than  to  the  discussion  of  eco- 
nomic questions.  Her  pale,  thoughtful  face,  her 


89o 


THE    WOMEN  OE  THE   ERENCH  SALONS. 


gentle  manner,  her  soft  and  penetrating  voice, 
all  indicated  an  exquisitely  feminine  quality 
quite  in  unison  with  the  spirit  of  urbanity  and 
politeness  that  was  even  then  going  out  of  fash- 
ion. Her  quiet  and  earnest  though  interesting 
conversation  was  somewhat  overshadowed  by 
the  impetuous  eloquence  of  Mme.  de  Stael, 
who  gave  the  tone  to  every  circle  into  which 
she  came.  "  I  am  more  and  more  convinced 
that  I  am  not  made  for  the  great  world,"  she 
said  to  the  Duchesse  de  Lauzun,  with  an  ac- 
cent of  regret.  "  It  is  Germaine  who  should 
shine  there  and  who  should  love  it,  for  she 
possesses  all  the  qualities  which  put  her  in  a 
position  to  be  at  once  feared  and  sought." 

If  she  was  allied  to  the  past,  however,"by 
her  tastes  and  her  sympathies,  she  belonged 
to  the  future  by  her  convictions,  and  her  many- 
sided  intellect  touched  upon  every  question 
of  the  day.  Profoundly  religious  herself,  she 
was  broadly  tolerant ;  always  delicate  in  health, 
she  found  time  amid  her  numerous  social  duties 
to  aid  the  poor  and  suffering,  and  to  establish 
the  hospital  that  still  bears  her  name.  Her 
letters  and  literary  records  reveal  a  woman 
of  liberal  thought  and  fine  insight,  as  well  as 
scholarly  tastes.  If  she  lacked  a  little  in  the 
facile  graces  of  the  French  women,  she  had 
to  an  eminent  degree  the  qualities  of  character 
that  were  far  rarer  in  her  age  and  sphere. 
Though  she  was  cold  and  reserved  in  manner, 
beneath  the  light  snow  which  she  brought  from 
her  native  hills  beat  a  heart  of  warm  and  tender, 
even  passionate,  impulses.  Devoted  wife,  loyal 
friend,  careful  mother,  large-minded  and  large- 
souled  woman,  she  stands  conspicuous,  in  a  pe- 
riod of  lax  domestic  relations,  for  the  virtues 
that  grace  the  fireside  as  well  as  for  the  tal- 
ents that  shine  in  the  salon. 

But  she  was  not  exempt  from  the  sorrows 
of  a  nature  that  exacts  from  life  more  than  it 
can  give,  and  finds  its  illusions  vanish  before 
the  cold  touch  of  experience.  She  had  her 
hours  of  darkness  and  of  suffering.  Even  the 
love  that  was  the  source  of  her  keenest  hap- 
piness was  also  the  source  of  her  sharpest 
griefs.  In  the  days  of  her  husband's  power 
she  missed  the  exclusive  attention  she  craved. 
There  were  moments  when  she  doubted  the 
depth  of  his  affection,  and  felt  anew  that  her 
"  eyes  were  wedded  to  eternal  tears."  She 
could  not  see  without  pain  his  extreme  devo- 
tion to  her  own  daughter,  whose  rich  nature, 
so  spontaneous,  so  original,  so  foreign  to  her 
own,  gave  rise  to  many  anxieties  and  occa- 
sional antagonisms.  This  touches  the  weak 
point  in  her  character.  She  was  not  wholly 
free  from  a  certain  egotism,  and  the  vanity  of 
her  opinions,  without  the  imagination  that 
fully  comprehends  an  individuality  quite  re- 
mote from  one's  own.    She  was  ambitious  too, 


and  had  not  won  her  position  without  many 
secret  wounds.  When  misfortunes  came  the 
blows  that  fell  upon  her  husband  struck  with 
double  force  into  her  own  heart.  She  was 
destined  to  share  with  him  the  chill  of  censure 
and  neglect,  the  bitter  sting  of  ingratitude, 
the  lonely  isolation  of  one  fallen  from  a  high 
place,  whose  friendship  and  whose  favors  count 
no  more. 

In  the  solitude  of  Coppet,  where  she  died 
at  fifty-seven,  during  the  last  and  darkest  days 
of  the  Revolution,  perhaps  she  realized  in  the 
tireless  devotion  of  her  husband  and  the  loving 
care  of  her  daughter  the  repose  of  heart  which 
the  brilliant  world  of  Paris  never  gave  her. 

With  all  her  gifts,  which  have  left  many 
definite  records  that  may  be  read,  and  in  spite 
of  a  few  shadows  that  fall  more  or  less  upon 
all  earthly  relations,  not  the  least  of  her  lega- 
cies to  posterity  was  the  beautiful  example, 
rarer  then  than  now,  of  that  true  and  sympa- 
thetic family  life  in  which  lies  the  complete 
harmony  of  existence,  a  safeguard  against  the 
storms  of  passion,  a  perennial  fount  of  love 
that  keeps  the  spirit  young,  the  tranquillity  out 
of  which  spring  the  purest  flowers  of  human 
happiness  and  human  endeavor. 

There  were  many  salons  of  lesser  note  which 
have  left  distinct  and  agreeable  traces.  It 
would  be  pleasant  to  recall  other  clever  and 
beautiful  women  whose  names  one  meets  so 
often  in  the  chronicles  of  the  time,  and  whose 
faces,  conspicuous  for  their  clear,  strong  out- 
lines, still  look  out  upon  us  from  the  galleries 
that  perpetuate  its  life ;  but  the  list  is  too  long 
and  would  lead  us  too  far.  From  the  moving 
procession  of  social  leaders  who  made  the  age 
so  brilliant  I  have  chosen  only  the  few  who 
were  most  widely  known,  and  who  best  repre- 
sent its  dominant  types  and  its  special  phases. 

The  most  remarkable  period  of  the  literary 
salons  was  really  closed  with  the  death  of 
Mme.  du  Deffand,  in  1780.  Mme.  Geoffrin 
had  already  been  dead  three  years,  and  Mile, 
de  Lespinasse  four.  Some  of  the  most  noted 
of  the  philosophers  and  men  of  letters  were 
also  gone,  others  were  past  the  age  of  forming 
fresh  ties,  the  young  men  belonged  to  another 
generation,  and  no  new  drawing-rooms  exactly 
replaced  the  old  ones.  Mme.  Necker  still  re- 
ceived the  world  that  was  wont  to  assemble 
in  the  great  salons,  Mme.  de  Condorcet  pre- 
sided over  a  rival  coterie,  and  there  were 
numerous  small  and  intimate  circles ;  but  the 
element  of  politics  was  beginning  to  intrude, 
and  with  it  a  degree  of  heat  which  disturbed 
the  usual  harmony.  The  reign  of  esprit,  the 
perpetual  play  of  wit,  had  begun  to  pall  upon 
the  blase  tastes  of  people  who  found  themselves 
face  to  face  with  problems  so  grave  and  issues 


THE  ROSE    OE  DA  WN. 


891 


so  vital.  There  was  a  slight  reaction  towards 
nature  and  simplicity.  "  They  may  be  growing 
wiser,"  said  Walpole,  "but  the  intermediate 
change  is  dullness."  For  nearly  half  a  century 
learned  men  and  clever  women  had  been 
amusing  themselves  with  Utopian  theories,  a 
few  through  conviction,  the  majority  through 
fashion,  or  egotism,  or  the  vanity  of  saying 
new  things,  just  as  the  world  is  doing  to-day. 
The  doctrines  put  forth  by  Montesquieu,  vivi- 
fied by  Voltaire,  and  carried  to  the  popular 
heart  by  Rousseau,  had  been  freely  discussed 
in  the  salons,  not  only  by  philosophers  and 
statesmen,  but  by  men  of  the  world,  poets, 
artists,  and  pretty  women.  The  sparks  of 
thought  with  which  they  played  so  lightly  fil- 
tered slowly  through  the  social  strata.  The 
talk  of  the  drawing-room  at  last  reached  the 
street.  But  the  torch  of  truth  which,  held  aloft, 
serves  as  a  beacon  star  to  guide  the  world 
towards  some  longed-for  ideal,  becomes  a 
deadly  explosive  when  it  falls  among  the  poi- 
sonous vapoi^  of  inflammable  human  passions. 
Liberty,  equality,  fraternity  assumed  a  new 
and  fatal  significance  in  the  minds  of  the  hun- 
gry and  restless  masses,  who,  embittered  by 
centuries  of  wrong,  were  ready  to  carry  these 
phrases  to  their  immediate  and  living  results. 
They  had  found  their  watchwords  and  their 
hour.  The  train  was  already  laid  beneath  this 
complex  social  structure,  and  the  tragedy  that 
followed  carried  to  a  common  ruin  court 
and  salon,  philosophers  and  beaux  esprits,  in- 
nocent women  and  dreaming  men. 

That  the  salons  were  unconscious  instru- 
ments in  hastening  the  catastrophe,  which  was, 
sooner  or  later,  inevitable,  is  undoubtedly  true. 
Their  influence  in  the  dissemination  of  thought 
was  immense.  The  part  they  played  was,  to 
a  limited  extent,  precisely  that  of  the  modern 


press,  with  an  added  personal  element.  They 
directed  the  intelligence  of  the  age,  and  re- 
flected its  average  morality.  As  centers  of  light 
and  intelligence  they  were  distinctly  stimulat- 
ing. It  is  quite  possible  that  they  stimulated 
the  intellect  to  the  exclusion  of  the  more  solid 
qualities  of  character,  and  that  they  were  the 
source  of  a  vast  amount  of  intellectual  affecta- 
tion. It  was  the  fashion  to  have  esprit,  and 
those  who  were  deficient  in  an  article  so  es- 
sential to  success  were  naturally  disposed  to 
borrow  it,  or  to  put  on  the  semblance  of  it.  But 
no  phase  of  life  is  without  its  reverse  side,  and 
the  present  generation  cannot  claim  freedom 
from  much  pretension  of  the  same  sort.  If  they 
precipitated  the  downfall  of  the  court  which 
they  began  by  rivaling,  it  was  in  the  logical 
course  of  events,  which  few  were  wise  enough 
to  foresee,  much  less  to  determine.  It  is  true 
there  was  much  to  be  deplored  on  the  score  of 
morality,  but  the  salons  moved  in  the  drift  of 
their  time,  and  accepted  the  traditions  of  a  cor- 
rupt past  to  a  certain  degree,  while  they  re- 
fined them. 

It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  this  reign  of 
women  in  which  the  manners  and  forms  of 
modern  society  found  their  initiative  and  their 
models  was  not  a  reign  of  youth,  or  beauty, 
or  grace,  though  these  qualities  are  never  likely 
to  lose  their  own  peculiar  fascination.  It  was, 
before  all  things,  a  reign  of  intelligence,  the 
ascendancy  of  women  who  had  put  on  the  hues 
of  age  without  laying  aside  the  permanent 
charm  of  a  fully  developed  personality.  One 
of  the  most  salient  outcomes  of  the  two  cen- 
turies in  which  women  shone  so  conspicuously 
in  France  may  be  found  in  the  broadened  in- 
tellectual life,  the  high  aspirations,  the  unfet- 
tered activities,  and  the  wide  and  beneficent 
influence  of  the  women  of  to-day. 


Amelia  Gere  Mason. 


THE    ROSE    OF    DAWN. 


HOW  mockingly  the  morning  dawns  for  me, 
Since  thou  art  gone,  where  no  pursuing  speech, 
No  prayer,  no  farthest-sounding  cry  can  reach ! 
I  call,  and  wait  the  answer  to  my  plea  — 
But  only  hear  the  stern,  dividing  sea 

(That  pauses  not,  however  I  beseech) 
Breaking,  and  breaking  on  the  distant  beach 
Of  that  far  land  whereto  thy  soul  did  flee. 

Do  happy  suns  shine  on  thee  where  thou  art  ? 

And  kind  stars  light  with  friendly  ray  thy  night  ? 

And  strange  birds  wake  with  music  strange  thy  morn  ? 
This  beggared  world,  where  thou  no  more  hast  part, 

Misapprehends  the  morning's  young  delight, 

And  the  old  grief  makes  the  new  day  forlorn. 


Louise  Chandler  Moulton. 


HOW    JERRY    BOUGHT    MALVINY. 


AAS,  dey  mought  er  been  better 
an'  dey  mought  er  been  wusser, 
but  dey  was  good  ole  days,  dose 
times  afoah  de  wah !  So  you 
wants  ter  heah  'bout  how  I 
bought  Malviny  ?  Haw,  haw, 
haw !  I  taught  all  dese  heah  done  fergit  all  'bout 
it,  done  gone  dese  twenty-five  yeah  !  Does  you 
min'  dis  heah  ole  cob-pipe,  boss  ? 

Well,  it  were  ten  yeah  come  Chrismus,  'foah 
de  bre'kin'  out  er  de  wah,  an'  'leven  yeah  arter  de 
cotton  cotch  in  de  gin-'ouse ;  bein'  as  how  dat 
were  two  yeah  arter  Sue's' Ann  maired  Caleb, 
it  were  five  yeah  'foah  me  an'  Malviny's  Mac 
were  borned.  Git  out  f'om  'hin'  dat  hopper, 
Mac,  wi'  yer  six  foot  er  imperence  ! 

Well,  you  see  it  were  ten  yeah  'fore  de  bre'kin' 
out  er  de  wah,  an'  Marse  Linkum  he  nebber 
done  me  no  good,  'ca'se  I  were  already  done 
er  free  nigger,  an'  I  ain't  nebber  got  no  forty 
acre  an'  er  muel,  dough  I  'se  done  got  gray 
an'  blin'  er-lookin'  fur  'em — haw,  haw,  haw! 
Malviny  she  wa'  n't  no  slave  fur  ter  manskate 
nuther  !  How  come  so  ?   I  tell  you  'bout  dat. 

It  were  'long  'bout  'fifty  er  'fifty-one,  an' 
Marse  Jeems  he  mek  er  mighty  big  crap  on 
bofe  plantations  —  mighty  puttye  cotton,  sar, 
mighty  putty;  but  cotton  were  'way  down 
low,  an'  Marse  Jeems  he  'elude  ter  hoi'  his  'n 
twel  it  fotch  de  price  he  as'  fur  't.  Well,  dar  was 
lots  er  po'  whi'  trash  all  through  de  country, 
an'  dey  hatter  sell  dey  cotton,  leetle  by  leetle, 
fur  side  meat,  coffee,  an'  truck,  an'  dey  looks 
mighty  scrumptious  as  dey  pass  in  de  road. 

Marse  Jeems  he  feel  mighty  oneasy  in  he 
min'  'bout  he  big  gin  plum  full  er  cotton,  an' 
he  call  we  all,  an'  he  say, "  Boys,  w'en  dat  ar 
go  ter  market,  I  gwine  gi'  you  all  er  big  treat " 
—  an'  we  watch  dat  gin  night  an'  day. 

Well,  one  night  dar  was  a  big  bre'k-down 
ovah  ter  Caney  Creek,  an'  all  de  niggers  went, 
but  I  hatter  git  Torm,  wha'  do  de  "  couterin',  " 
ter  jeck  my  toof,  dat  been  er-givin'  me  er  mis'ry 
nigh  onter  er  week ;  an'  so  I  stays  behin'. 

Well,  Torm  he  done  bre'k  my  toof,  plum 
up  inter  de  jaw,  an'  arter  I  done  kick  'im  I 
feels  so  miser'ble  an'  po'ly,  I  'elude  ter  stay  up 
all  night  at  de  gin,  but  Torm,  he  hike  off  ter 
de  bre'k-down  wid  he  gal.  Wha'  dat  gotter 
do  wid  me  buyin'  Malviny  ?  See  heah,  boss, 
I  can't  talk  lack  I  uster,  but  I  tell  you  de  story. 

Well,  I  laid  down  by  de  gin-'ouse  do',  an' 
all  was  dat  still  you  mought  er-heared  er  pin 
drap.    Bimeby  er  big  owl  he  holler  "  A-hoo, 
892 


A-hoo,  A  !  "  an'  I  jumps  up  an'  I  sees  er  leetle 
spark  er-shinin'  lack  er  star  through  de  cracks  in 
de  do',  an'  'pears  ter  me  I  smells  sumpih'  er- 
scotchin',  an'  I  tries  ter  holler,  but,  'foah  Gord, 
my  mouf  done  dat  dry  I  could  n'  spit !  Den 
I  bu'st  de  do',  an'  de  whi'  fire  go  sneakin'  through 
de  dark,  lack  leetle  shiny  sarpints. 

I  gits  de  buckets,  an'  totes  de  waiter  f'om 
de  branch,  an'  flings  it  on,  but  my  ole  tongue 
done  daid;  an'  I  rassels  wid  dat  cotton,  an' 
hugs  it,  an'  squeezes  it,  er-squenchin'  dem 
flames,  twel  I  heah  Mirny's  ole  yaller  rooster 
er-crowin'  fur  day;  an'  I  dismember  wha' 
'curred  arter.  Well,  w'en  I  open  dis  ole  eye  — 
you  see  I  ain't  got  but  one,  fur  de  fire  done 
bu'st  de  gizzard  out'n  tur'r  one  — -  dar  were  ole 
Marse  er-laffin'  an'  er-cryin'  ober  me;  an'  he 
tuck  my  ole  black  han'  an'  shuck  it,  an'  shuck 
it,  an'  he  holler,  "Jerry,  you  done  free  ter-day 
as  I  is  —  you  sabed  my  cotton." 

Well,  I  could  n'  leabe  Marse  Jeems  no 
how,  an'  I  stays  dar  an'  wuk  fur  'im  lack  I 
alius  wuked,  an'  Marse  Jeems  he  mek  me  de 
oberseer,  an'  pays  me  jest  lack  I  were  white. 

Wha'  dat  gotter  do  wid  me  buyin'  Mal- 
viny ?  Well,  I  were  free  now,  but  I  ain't  got 
no  wife,  so  I  slicks  up  an'  goes  'roun'  mekin' 
fox  eyes  at  de  smartes'  gals.  Well,  bimeby  I 
sneaks  'roun'  an'  teck  er  shine  ter  Malviny, 
wha'  stay  in  de  house  an'  were  ole  Miss's 
maid.  Malviny  she  laugh  an'  bite  de  cornder  er 
her  apun ;  an'  so  I  ups  an'  as'es  Marse  Jeems 
mought  we  mairey,  an'  he  say  we  mought ;  an' 
he  guv  us  er  weddin'  dat  big  dat  dey  come  fur 
ober  ter  Caney  Creek,  an'  we  all  dance  twel 
day  done  come  in  good. 

But  bimeby  trouble  come  er-sneakin'  roun' 
de  plantation,  an'  I  see  ole  Marse,  solum  lack, 
lean  on  he  han's  an'  look  'way  ober  de  hill  at 
sumpin'  wha'  ain't  dar;  an'  ole  Miss  she  cry 
sof '  ter  herse'f  an'  walk  de  flo' ;  an'  dar  wa'  n't 
no  mo'  bre'k- downs  'mongst  de  niggers. 

Bimeby  er  man  he  come  f'om  town,  an' 
fotch  er  leetle  bar'l  an'  he  squinch  through  it,  at 
dis  cornder  er  de  fence,  an'  dat  cornder  er  de 
garden,  an'  squinch  up  at  de  house;  anur'r 
one  he  look  at  de  hosses  an'  de  cows  an'  de 
sheep,  an'  res'  he  foot  wid  he  shinin'  boot  on 
er  stump,  an'  spit  at  er  mark,  er-laughin'  lack, 
an'  er-makin'  uv  he  jokes,  but  ole  Marse  he 
were  mighty  solemn. 

Well,  w'en  dey  all  done  gone,  ole  Marse  he 
call  we  all,  er-lookin'  mighty  sad  an'  mo'nful, 
an'  we  all  come,  an'  he  stop,  an'  de  warter  rin 


HOW  JERRY  BOUGHT  MALVINY. 


893 


out'n  de  cornder  uv  he  eye,  an'  he  pull  down 
he  hat  —  'pear  lack  ter  shade  'em,  but  dar 
wa'n't  no  sun. 

Den  he  cle'r  he  thote,  an'  say,  "  You  has 
all,  er  leastways  mos'  all  uv  you,  has  been 
true,  hones'  sarvents ;  you  has  all,  er  mos'  all 
uv  you,  been  borned  an'  r'ared  on  dis  place, 
as  I  is  :  an'  we  lubed  it,  'ca'se 
it  were  our  home;  but  now 
we  has  all  got  ter  leabe  it,  an' 
I  hatter  sell  my  niggers,  'ca'se 
I  done  los'  all  my  farder  lef ' 
me." 

Ole  Marse's  voice  trimble 
lack,  an'  he  look  white  roun' 
de  mouf,  den  he  tu'n  an'  walk 
slow,  on  inter  de  house.  Well, 
Malviny  she  stay  an'  cry  wid 
ole  Miss  dat  night,  an'  I  lay 
in  de  bade,  in  de  cabin,  an' 
thunk  an'  thunk ;  den  I  sw'ar 
low  dat  I  stan'  by  ole  Marse 
fru  it  all,  "  come  Dick,  come 
debbil !  " 

Bimeby  day  bre'k,  an'  I 
gits  up  an'  looks  out  de  do', 
but  Malviny  ain't  come  yit ; 
den  I  walks  sof  an'  looks  all 
roun',  'ca'se  I  did  n'  want  no- 
body ter  see  me,  leastways 
er  'oman ;  but  dar  wa'n't  no- 
body dar ;  den  I  walks  slow, 
kinder  talkin'  ter  myse'f,  an' 
retch  up  by  de  chimbly 
cornder,  an'  teks  down  de 
ole  sock,  tied  wid  er  blue 
cotton  string,  wha'  hel'  all 
my  money. 

Well,  I  looks  up  by  stable, 
an'  dar  ole  Marse,  an'    ole 
Carlo   follerin',    wid   he    tail 
stuck    'twix'    he    laigs :    ole 
Carlo  he  know  sumpin'  done 
gone  wrong;  but  ole  Marse 
he  tek  no  notice,  an'  walk  an' 
walk  lack  he  could  n'  stop. 
Den  I  comes  up,  brisk  lack,  'pears  lack  ter  ten' 
Marse  Jeems's  hoss,  but  w'en  I  come  up  'long- 
side  I  stops  wid  my  derned  ole  heart  stuck  plum 
tight  in  my  thote,  an'  I  says  to  ole  Marse,  says  I, 
"  Marse  Jeems,  kin  you  count  dis  fur  me  ?  "  An' 
ole  Marse  he  look  up  kinder  'sprised  lack  an' 
retch  out  he  han'  fur  de  sock,  an'  ontie  de  blue 
cotton  string.  Den  he  say,  kinder  strained  lack  : 

"Jerry,  you  got  two  hundud  an' fifty  dollars." 

An'  I  say,  "  Marse  Jeems,  who  I  b'long  ter 
'fore  I  free  ?  " 

An'  he  say,  "  You  b'long  ter  me,  Jerry." 

Den   I   say,  "  Marse  Jeems,   who   sot  me 
free  ?  " 

An'  he  say  sof,  "  I  did,  Jerry." 
Vol.  XL.— 117. 


Den  I  say,  wid  er  great  big  trimble  in  my 
thote,  "  Marse  Jeems,  all  I  is,  an'  all  I  got,  is 
your'n — tek  de  money  an'  sabe  de  ole  home." 

An'  he  sorter  smile  sad  an'  tek  my  ole  nig- 
ger han'  in  his'n,  an'  hoi'  it  an'  say,  "  Jerry, 
I  's  'bleeged  to  you,  Jerry :  you  is  er  true  frenv 
an'  er  hones'  man ;  but  keep  yer  money,  Jerry ; 


MALVINY     SHE     LAUGH    AN      BITE     DE     CORNDER     ER     HER    APUN. 

it  can't  do  me  no  good  now.    I  's  too  fur  gone 

fur  dat;  I  's  done  furever,   Jerry."    An'  ole 

Marse  he  laid  he  haid  on  he  han's,  an'  I  stan' 

dar,  an'  we   cry  terger'r.    Well,  bimeby   ole 

Marse  he  raise  he  haid,  an'  say  suddent  lack, 

"  Jerry,  would  n'  you  lack  ter  buy  Malviny  ?  " 

'Pear   lack    shootin'-stars  dance    'fore   my 

eyes,  an'  I  say,  "  Gord  !    Marse  Jeems,  how  ?  " 

An'  he  say,  "Wid  yer  money,  Jerry." 

Den  I   cut  de  pigeon  wing  an'  pat ;   den 

stops  lack  I   done  bit  er  green  crab. 

An'  Marse  Jeems  he  say,  "  Wha'  de  matter?  " 
An'  I  says,  says  I,  "  Marse  Jeems,  you  cain't 
buy   er  good  nigger  fur  er  two  hundud  an' 
fifty  dollar." 


894 


HOW  JERRY  BOUGHT  MALVINY. 


Marse  Jeems  he  smile  an'  say,  "  Not  'lessen 
we  fix  it,  Jerry." 

An'  I  say,  kinder  cute,  "  Marse  Jeems,  you 
mought  tell  'em  dat  she  's  rale  oler  dan  she 
look,  dat  she  were  worfless  an'  triflin',  an'  were 
slow  'bout  work,  wid  stiffness  in  her  laigs,  an' 
de  mis'ry  in  her  chist ;  an'  ef  dey  crowd  her  close, 
you  mought  tell  'em,  sof ' ,  dat  she  hid  de  spoons, 
an'  you  was  shore  glad  ter  git  shet  uv  her  ! " 

Afore  Gord,  I  lacked  ter  cried  er-busin'  er 
my  ole  'oman,  but  I  wanter  buy  Malviny 
free.  But  ole  Marse  he  say,  "  Nebber  min', 
Jerry,  we  '11  try  ter  manage  it ";  an'  shuck  my 
han'  ag'in,  an'  tu'ned  he  back. 

Well,  arter  dat  things  went  on  mighty 
po'ly.     Ole  Marse  he  nebber  say  much,  an' 


OLE     PARSON       BIAS     AN'     LEETLE     AZARIAH. 

ole  Miss  she  mighty  low  in  her  sperrits;  an' 
Malviny  she  stay  wid  ole  Miss  pretty  nigh 
constanterly  twel  I  ain't  got  but  one  gallus  but- 
ton lef '.  Den,  all  uv  er  suddent,  dar  were  er  hur- 
ry'n'  an'  skerry'n'  uv  de  house  niggers,  an'  ole 
Marse  he  come  down  ter  de  stable,  whar  I  were 
er-curry'n'  Pluto,  an'  say,  kinder  low,  "Jerry,  de 
sale  comes  off  ter-morrer  " ;  an'  dat 's  all,  fur  it 
'peared  lack  he  swallowed  sumpin'  hard. 
Dat  night  de  niggers,  fie?  han's  an'  all,  come 


up  ter  de  big  house,  an'  ole  Marse  he  say  he 
gib  'em  all  er  "  stirrin'  cup,"  er  sumpin'  er  dat 
sort ;  but  I  nebber  in  all  my  borned  days  see 
niggers  cry  so  hard  ober  good  whisky. 

Well,  de  bre'kfus'  were  sarved  by  candle- 
light nex'  mornin',  an'  all  de  ole  fambly  silber 
were  set  out  'posin',  lack  't  were  w'en  we 
all  had  comp'ny,  an'  dar  were  two  or  three 
pa'r  strange  laigs  under  ole  Marse's  table,  but 
dey  wa'n't  comp'ny.  Ole  Miss  she  set  proud 
lack,  an'  pour  de  coffee,  but  her  lip  trimble ; 
an'  leetle  Azariah  he  fotch  in  de  waffles,  but  he 
sperrit  done  gone,  an'  he  come  in  lack  er  yaller 
cur  wha'  jist  los'  er  tin  can  f'om  he  tail. 

Dem  were  mighty  troublous  times,  sar, 
mighty  troublous.  Well,  dey  rung  de  big 
bell  w'en  de  sun  'bout  er  hour  high,  an'  de 
niggers  dey  come  f'om  de  quarters,  an' 
f'om  de  house,  fiel'  han's,  house  sarvents, 
an'  all;  an'  dey  all  mighty  skeered  an' 
still  lack,  'cep'in'  Parson  'Bias,  he  keep  up 
er  power  er  prayin' ;  fur  none  of  de  TarP- 
ton  niggers  ebberbinselledafoah — nebber 
sence  de  place  were  er  plantation ;  an'  it 
'peared  lack  de  Jedgment  done  come,  an' 
dar  wa'n't  no  libben  arterwards. 

Well,  Malviny  she  come  ter  me,  an'  flung 
her  apun  ober  her  haid,  er-shakin'  lack  her 
had  deagur,  an'  I  tuck  her  han'  an'  we  went 
nigh  de  block  whar  dey  gwine  auctioneer 
'em,  bes'  I  could,  fur  de  trimblin'  in  my  laigs ; 
it  were  rumatiz  er-comin'  on  me  hard. 

Ole  Marse  he  were  dar,  er  'rangin'  an' 
er-persuadin'  'emtersell  'em  in  lots,  er  fam- 
blies,  so  's  dar  would  n'  be  sich  supperatin' 
an'  good-byin'  'mongst  we  all.  Ole  Parson 
'Bias,  wid  he  white  haid  bar',  he  set  in  de 
cornder  uv  de  wum  fence  er-'dolin'  an'  er- 
'zortin'  'bout  de  Jedgment,  an'  de  two  er- 
pickin'  in  de  fiel'  an'  de  one  tucken  an' 
tur'r  lef. 
Ole  'Bias  he  were  safe  an'  he  knowed  it,  fur 
he  so  ole  an'  po'ly  dey  ain't  nobody  wanter 
buy  'im.  Well,  de  fus  ter  mount  de  block 
were  ole  Aunt  Sally ;  an'  Sherruff  Scrump  he 
step  up  'longside  her,  wid  de  papers  ter  her,  an' 
he  say  dat  dis  heah  'oman  Sally  are  nigh  onter 
fifty  yeah  ole,  an'  dese  are  Misser  Tarl'ton's 
papers  f'om  Misser  Smif,  wha'  say,  dat  "  she 
are  soun'  in  body  an'  min',  an'  er  slave  fur  life, 
an'  I,  Sherruff  Scrump,  sells  her  ter  de  highes' 
bidder."  She  were  er  mighty  handy  'oman, 
an'  dey  runs  her  high. 

Misser  Payson  he  start  her  at  two  hundud, 
an'  finally  dey  knock  her  off  ter  Misser  Stone, 
on  de  nex'  plantation,  fur  seben  hundud.  I 
feel  mighty  po'ly  jist  den,  an'  squz  Malviny's 
han'  twel  it  hu't  her  —  but  I  's  trus'  Marse 
Jeems  afoah  dis. 

Well,  dey  sole  off  de  niggers  in  lots  an'  fam- 
blies,  mos'ly,  by  twos  an'  threes  an'  fives  an' 


HOW  JERRY  BOUGHT  MALVINY. 


895 


tens;  an'  dar  would  be  er 
kinder  laugh  w'en  dey  wen' 
terger'r,  an'  er  groan,  lack, 
w'en  dey  were  parted. 

Bimeby   dar   wa'n't  no- 
body stan'in'  dar  but   me 
an'  Malviny.    Malviny  she 
git  cole,  an'  'pear  lack  she 
fall,  fur  she  know  her  tu'n 
done  come ;  but  I  hoi'  her 
up,  an'  lead  her  ter  de  block, 
an'  she  mount  it.    Sherruff 
Scrump  he  step  up  wid  her, 
but    Malviny  she  hoi'  her 
han's  terger'r  tight,  an'  look 
'way  ober  yander,  lack  she 
done  hear  one  er  ole  Miss's 
daid  babies  call  her.    She 
dunno  nuffin'  'bout  de  sock, 
tied    wid    de    blue   cotton 
string,  fur  I  ain't  er  power- 
ful  han'  ter  talk   business 
ter  er  nigger,  leastways  ter 
er    'oman ;    but     I     cotch 
Marse  Jeems's  eye,  an'  my 
ole  heart  beat  plum  up  in 
my  thote,  lack  er  trip-ham- 
mer. Den  dey  starts  de  bids 
at   fifty  dollar,  an'  Misser 
Stone  he  raise  it  ter  er  hun- 
dud.    I  Stan's  dar,  an'  waits 
fur  't  ter  retch  my  pile,  lack 
I  were  growed  in  de  groun', 
lack  er  'tater.    Misser  Ger- 
ard he  bid  er  hundud  an' 
fifty.    Misser    Payson     he 
want  Malviny,  an'  he  say, 
"  Two  hundud,"  an'  I  mean 
ter  holler  "  Two  hundud   an'  fifty,"  but  de 
sunshine  all  gits  black,  an'  I  on'y  whispers. 
Den  Marse  Jeems  he  call  it  strong  an'  cle'r, 
"  Two  hundud  an'  fifty  doller  !  "    'Pears  lack 
deleaves  on  de  trees  were  feared  ter  move, 
an'  I  prays  hard  'long  er  ole  'Bias.    Misser 
Payson  he  look  at  Marse  Jeems    'stonished 
lack,  den  he  gits  red  in  de  face,  an'  holler 
"  Eight  hundud  —  damme !  "  an'  I  hears  Sher- 
ruff Scrump  lack 't  were  way  off  yander,  er- 
singin', "  Goin',  goin',  at  eighthundud — goin ! " 

—  but  I  don'  wanter  hear  no  mo',  fur  de  groun' 
done  sink,  an'  de  sperrit  call  fur  de  rocks  an' 
de  mountings  ter  fall,  lack  de  Scriptur  say. 

Gord !  My  Malviny  gone  —  done  selled  ! 
An',  wusser  'n  dat,  buyed  by  ole  Payson,  dat 
Marse  Jeems  hates  wusser  'n  er  sarpint — an' 
he  would  n'  sell  her  back  ter  me  ef  ebry  ha'r 
were  strung  wid  er  dimunt !  My  Malviny,  wid 
her  putty  long  yaller  han's,  an'  big  wide  eyes 

—  done  gone!  O  Gord! — an'  ole  'Bias  he 
stop  prayin'  ter  cotch  me,  'ca'se  I  's  gwine 
er-whirlin'.   Den  I  sees  de  sunlight  ag'in,  an' 


I  HOL   HER  UP,  AN   LEAD  HER  TER  DE  BLOCK. 

I  sees  Marse  Jeems  er-talkin'  mighty  yearnes' 
an'  mek  er  sign  ter  Sherruff  Scrump,  an'  Sher- 
ruff Scrump  he  wiggle  —  an'  wait. 

Den  ole  Payson  he  step  forruds,  er  man 
fur  onct,  an'  say,  "  Gemmen,  dar  were  er 
mistake  made,  an'  I  wi'draw  my  bid."  An' 
Sherruff  Scrump  he  say,  "  Well,  we  '11  start  it 
ober";  an'  dey  bid.  An'  w'en  sum-un  call 
"  Two  hundud  "  I  groans  out,  "  Two  hundud 
an'  fifty  —  O  Gord  !  "  lack  er  pra'r ;  an'  it  were 
er  pra'r,  fur  Sherruff  Scrump  he  call,  "  Goin'  ! 
goin' !  gone  !  Ter  Jerry  Tarl'ton,  fur  two  hun- 
dud an' fifty  dollar !  "  Den  how  de  niggers  shout! 
I  dunno  how  it  were,  sar,  but  howsum- 
ebber  I  had  Malviny  off  'n  dat  block  afoah  1 
knowedit,  an'  we  hug  an'  holler,  an'  holler  an' 
hug,  twel  Malviny  done  faint  plum  daid  away. 

Yaas,  Marse  Jeems  an'  de  ole  Miss  sleeps  in  de 
ole  fambly  bury'n'-groun'  'longside  de  babies. 
We  laid  'em  bofe  dar  soon  arter  de  wah,  but 
dar 's  two  places  lef ,  by  de  cornder  uv  de  fence, 
fur  Jerry  an'  Malviny. 

Virginia  Frazer  Boyle. 


WSII^r&>*mMlkM@ 


^'ij  iiY_^  ^   ^^-is  ^:  .^z^itI 


of  a  range  of  pre- 
ahead     and    threw 


PREHISTORIC    CAVE-DWELLINGS. 


E  had  been  traveling  for  three  days  over  an  almost  waterless 
waste,  and  were  longing  for  a  change  of  scene  and  experience. 
The  desert  landscapes  had  been  pleasant  enough  at  first  in  their 
velty,  but  now  their  low  sand-hills,  capped  with  flat  black  rocks 
and  thinly  clad  with  sage,  cactus,  and  grayish-yellow  weeds,  had 
come  to  be  sorely  monotonous.  Towards  evening  we  came  in  sight 
cipitous  cliffs,  which  seemed  to  bar  the  way  half  a  dozen  miles 
back  the  rays  of  the  setting  sun  as  from  whitewashed  walls.  A 
single  break  appeared,  which  as  we  drew  nearer  developed  into  a  wide,  level-bottomed 
canon,  into  which  the  Indian  guide,  beckoning  me  to  follow,  plunged  at  a  gallop.  Shortly  he 
pulled  up,  and,  pointing  to  an  object  a  mile  farther  on,  uttered  the  single  word  "  Kintail " — 
the  Navajo  equivalent  for  ancient  ruin. 

Our  canon  soon  opened  at  right  angles  into  a  wider  one,  disclosing  beautiful  vistas  to 
the  right  and  left,  comparable  to  nothing  upon  which  our  eyes  had  been  accustomed  to  look. 
We  saw  a  valley  a  dozen  miles  long  by  half  a  mile  in  width,  hemmed  in  by  gray  sandstone 
walls,  precipitous  for  a  hundred  feet  from  the  bottom,  then  retreating  in  long,  even  terraces, 
whose  flat  crests  were  fringed  or  specked  in  black  by  the  pinons.  The  floor  was  carpeted 
in  yellow  —  a  waving  lake  of  sunflowers;  not  the  seedy  monsters  of  the  East  and  the 
South,  but  smaller,  more  brilliant,  and  far  more  beautiful  growths.  A  herd  of  Indian  ponies, 
startled  by  our  advent,  bounded  away  down  the  canon  —  the  only  living  things  in  sight  besides 
ourselves. 

We  halted  upon  the  brink  of  an  arroyo  which  wound  through  the  middle  of  the  main 
canon  at  a  point  just  opposite  the  ruin  to  which  the  guide  had  called  my  attention.  The  pile 
resembled  a  huge  brick-kiln,  its  fires  out  and  its  row  of  blackened  fire-holes  at  the  bottom 
left  open. 

I  slipped  from  my  saddle,  and,  abandoning  my  pony  to  the  care  of  the  Indian,  dropped  down 
the  bank  of  the  arroyo.  Pausing  a  moment  on  the  side  of  the  little  brooklet  at  the  bottom 
to  take  an  unrefreshing  drink  of  its  muddy,  tepid  water,  I  climbed  the  other  bank  and  con- 
fronted, close  at  hand,  a  most  remarkable  structure  of  immense  extent  and  undoubted  antiq- 
uity. Having  crossed  the  debris  of  a  fallen  wall,  I  passed  through  a  wide  plaza  and  entered 
a  weed-grown  court,  on  three  sides  of  which  stood  black  walls  of  masonry  of  great  thickness. 
Through  their  queer,  low  doorways,  hardly  more  than  a  yard  from  top  to  bottom,  and  little 
windows,  was  revealed  room  beyond  room,  and  stories  one,  two,  three  above  me.  An  hour 
later  the  gathering  darkness,  and  the  noises  of  the  approaching  pack-train,  recalled  me  from 
the  past,  and  having  stumbled  back  across  the  arroyo,  I  joined  in  the  work  of  establishing 
camp  at  the  point  where  the  Indian  had  remained. 

Few  more  interesting  archaeological  curiosities  exist  upon  the  hemisphere,  and  none  within 
the  borders  of  the  republic,  than  those  of  Chaco  Canon,  New  Mexico.  To  what  remote 
periods  "  in  the  morning  of  time  "  they  owe  their  origin  and  their  destruction    none  will 


PREHISTORIC   CAVE-DWELIINGS. 


897 


ever  know.  What  may  have  been  the  purposes 
of  many  of  their  marked  peculiarities;  what  the 
numbers  and  characteristics  of  their  builders ; 
what  the  relationship,  if  any,  between  their  in- 
habitants and  the  other  families  of  the  great 
race  of  early  community  dwellers,  are  queries 
which  may  be  answered  in  part  when  the  in- 
vestigator shall  go  with  pick  and  shovel  to 
uncover  the  buried  rooms,  and  lay  bare  that 
which  has  remained  concealed  since  the  death 
or  departure  of  the  ancients.  The  existence  of 
these  ruins  has  long  been  known,  but  they  have 
rarely  been  visited  by  white  men.  There  are 
thirteen  groups  —  castles  in  appearance,  but 
towns  and  villages  in  fact,  twelve  of  which  are 
situated  within  ten  miles  of  the  mouth  of  the 
canon. 

Many  visits  were  made  to  some  of  the  piles, 
and  on  each  occasion  some  feature  which  had 
at  first  refused  to  yield  up  its  secret  proved 
more  tractable  upon  being  brought  into  com- 
parison with  kindred  features  of  neighboring 
ruins.  The  masonry  of  the  Chacoans  is  admira- 


of  thick  with  several  layers  of  thin  stones  gave 
a  surprisingly  attractive  appearance  to  their 
best  work.  Looking  beyond  the  minutiae  of 
construction,  however,  the  work  of  the  ancients 
is  found  to  be  less  praiseworthy;  and  evidences 
appear  on  every  hand  that  they  had  not 
emerged  from  the  estate  of  barbarism  to  a  full 
comprehension  of  the  mysteries  of  true  curves, 
straight  lines,  and  right  angles.  They  began 
their  structures  with  definite  and  symmetrical 
plans  in  mind,  but  in  matters  of  alignment  and 
direction  they  often  fell  far  short  of  their  evi- 
dent purpose. 

The  largest  and  most  central  mass  in  the 
canon  is  Pueblo  Bonito.  Its  walls  inclose  an 
area  of  about  three  and  one-third  acres.  Its 
master  architect  planned  a  half-moon  structure 
in  outline,  evidently  intending  to  divide  up  a 
portion  of  the  interior  by  a  series  of  concentric 
semicircles  and  radiating  cross  walls  to  form 
the  living  apartments.  It  had  more  than  two 
hundred  rooms  upon  a  single  level,  and  being 
four,  perhaps  five,  stories  in  height,  contained 


PUEBLO     CHACO     CANON. 


ble,  considering  their  limited  resources.  They 
faced  their  walls  with  small,  roughly  squared 
stones  smoothly  laid  in  clay,  and  filled  the 
spaces  between  with  rubble,  embedding  large 
logs  both  vertically  and  horizontally  in  the 
masses  to  give  them  additional  strength.  Often 
the  building  material  was  carefully  assorted 
so  that  each  layer  of  stones  might  be  of  uni- 
form thickness  throughout,  and  the  alternation 


not  less  than  eight  hundred  rooms  in  all.  Its 
population  probably  averaged  two  individuals 
to  a  room.  Those  who  are  familiar  with  the 
habits  of  the  village  Indians  of  the  present  day, 
recalling  the  fact  that  three  or  four  generations, 
sometimes  to  the  number  of  a  dozen  individ- 
uals, are  found  living  in  a  single  apartment, 
will  think  my  estimate  too  low ;  but  the  rooms 
of  Bonito  are  smaller  than  those  of  the  in- 


898 


PREHISTORIC   CAVE-DWELLINGS, 


habited  pueblos,  and  I  deem  it  unsafe  to  esti- 
mate their  population  upon  the  same  basis. 

The  architect  of  Bonito  was  a  bungler.  One 
of  his  two  outer  angles  is  acute,  the  other  ob- 
tuse. At  one  point  his  intended  semicircle  is 
flattened  by  reason  of  the  proximity  of  the 
cliff,  and  at  another  it  is  afflicted  with  a  dropsi- 
cal bulge.  The  diameter  of  his  half-moon — 
the  front  of  the  structure — is  at  variance  by 
thirty  degrees  with  the  line  of  the  arroyo  in  its 
front  and  that  of  the  cliffs  behind.  The  dia- 
metral line  is  broken  in  its  middle  by  reason  of 
a  miscalculation  of  one  or  two  degrees,  and  the 
break  was  utilized  as  a  main  entrance.  The 
inner  concentric  curves,  springing  at  right 
angles  from  the  diametral  wall,  attempted  to 
follow  the  line  of  the  outer  semicircle,  but  got 
bewildered  in  the  maze  of  cross  walls  and  shot 
off  at  odd  angles  to  premature  absorption  in 
their  neighboring  walls. 

Bonito,  though  the  largest  and  doubtless  in 
its  day  the  most  important  of  the  Chaco  ruins, 
is  not  the  best  preserved,  nor  in  its  construc- 
tion the  best  fitted  to  illustrate  the  highest 
capabilities  of  this  people.  These  qualities, 
in  my  opinion,  attach  to  Pueblo  del  Arroyo, 
two  hundred  and  fifty  paces  west.  It  is  rectan- 
gular in  plan,  being  built  around  three  sides 
of  a  parallelogram,  and  doubtless  owes  its 
better  alignment  to  its  comparative  simplicity. 


PUEbLO     CHACO     CANON.      II. 


Little  lapses  from  rectitude  are  noticeable 
here  and  there,  but,  as  a  whole,  its  angles 
present  fewer  eccentricities,  and  its  interior 
walls  more  uniformly  reach  their  destinations, 
than  do  those  of  its  huge  neighbor.  Its  rooms 
are  generally  larger,  and  its  appearance  indi- 
cates a  somewhat  later  date  of  construction. 


It  contained  eighty-four  lower  rooms  or  cells, 
and  probably  had  twice  as  many  more  in  its 
upper  stories. 

The  most  remarkable  outline  is  that  of 
Penasca  Blanca,  the  second  pueblo  in  point 
of  size,  and  the  westernmost  ruin  of  the  group. 
It  stands  upon  the  tongue  of  a  mesa  seventy  feet 
above  the  bottom  of  the  canon,  and  in  a  military 
sense  commands  its  mouth.  The  plan  of  the 
main  portion  of  this  ruin  exhibits  six  concentric 
curves,  four  of  which  describe  one  hundred 
degrees  of  the  circle,  while  the  two  innermost 
are  extended  to  complete  circles, —  or  rather 
ellipses, —  thus  inclosing  the  plaza.  Its  walls 
inclose  an  area  of  about  one  hundred  and  ten 
thousand  square  feet.  It  probably  had  three 
hundred  apartments,  and  it  may  have  been 
the  home  of  a  thousand  individuals. 

The  principal  mesa  had  an  area  of  about  fif- 
teen square  miles.  From  its  highest  point  the 
land  slopes  gently  away  in  all  directions,  the 
incline  towards  the  south  ending  abruptly  at 
the  distance  of  one  mile  in  the  descent  into  the 
canon.  At  this  commanding  point  there  stand 
in  a  group  three  masses  of  masonry,  notable 
in  themselves  yet  with  few  distinctive  features. 
Their  site  is,  with  one  exception,  the  highest 
within  fifty  miles,  and  commands  a  northward 
view  of  desert  table-land,  canon,  cliff,  and  moun- 
tain which  must  have  gladdened  the  hearts  of 
the  ancients,  as  it  did  ours, 
to  look  upon.  The  largest 
ruin  of  this  group  is  now 
little  more  than  a  rubbish 
heap,  yet  a  few  yards  of 
standing  wall  here  and 
there  prove  it  to  have  been 
built  with  the  same  careful 
attention  to  detail  exhibited 
in  those  already  described. 
It  had  ninety  lower  apart- 
ments. One  of  the  remain- 
ing structures  is  in  a  still 
more  advanced  stage  of 
decay,  while  the  third  is, 
oddly  enough,  the  best  pre- 
served ruin  in  all  the  Chaco 
region.  It  had  only  forty 
rooms  in  its  lower  level. 
From  the  distance  of  a  few 
rods  its  appearance  was 
that  of  a  large  modern 
brick  mansion  lately  de- 
stroyed by  fire. 
Many  rooms  in  the  various  ruins  remain  in- 
tact, though  choked  with  rubbish,  and  by  ex- 
amination of  them  something  may  be  learned 
of  the  simple  internal  economy  of  the  ancient 
homes.  Their  entrances  and  intercommuni- 
cating apertures  were  commonly  not  more 
than  three   feet   from  top  to  bottom.    Some 


PREHISTORIC   CA  VE-D  WELLINGS. 


899 


PUEBLO     CHACO    CANON.      III. 


were  placed  low  down,  necessitating  the  use  of 
hands  and  knees  to  effect  an  entrance,  while 
others  required  a  leap  over  a  threshold  two  or 
three  feet  high.  In  the  latter  cross-bars  were 
placed  at  the  top,  which  the  passer  might  grasp 
to  assist  himself  over  the  obstruction.  Little 
windows  or  ventilators,  ten  and  twelve  inches 
square,  opened  near  the  tops  of  the  rooms.  In- 
teriors were  plastered  over  with  mud  laid  on 
as  smoothly  as  could  be  done  by  modern  work- 
men with  their  trowels.  Recesses  great  and 
small  extending  into  the  thick  walls  served  the 
purposes  of  cupboards  and  store  places.  Floors 
were  made  of  small,  straight  withes — more 
rarely  of  split  slabs — laid  contiguously  across 
heavy  log  sleepers  and  covered  with  a  thick 
carpeting  of  soft  bark.  In  one  place  we  found 
the  spaces  between  the  sleepers — fourteen 
inches  wide — filled  with  thin  stones,  so  firmly 
wedged  into  their  places  that  they  remained, 
being  plastered  over  with  mud,  as  the  ceiling 
of  the  room  below,  and  without  other  support 
than  their  own  weight  and  pressure.  So  near 
did  the  Chacoans  come  to  the  discovery  of 
the  arch,  using  herein  its  essential  principles ; 
yet  for  the  lintels  to  doorways,  passages,  and 
windows  —  places  where  the  arch  would  best 
have  served  their  purposes  —  they  used  short 
poles,  which  in  the  majority  of  cases  have  been 
broken  down  by  the  superincumbent  masses 
of  masonry. 

Neither  fireplaces  nor  flues  are  to  be  found, 
and  it  is  probable  that  fires  were  never  built 
in  the  living  apartments.    Their  smoke  Avould 


have  smothered  the  dwellers  above,  except 
where  the  ceilings  were  like  the  one  I  have 
described,  of  small  stones  plastered  with  clay  ; 
and  in  such  cases  life  below  would  have  been 
made  intolerable.  Cooking  was  probably  done 
in  the  open  plaza,  or  in  specially  constructed 
apartments,  as  is  to  some  extent  the  case  among 
the  Moquis  to-day.  For  warmth  the  ancients 
doubtless  wrapped  their  rabbit-skin  robes  about 
them  and  snuggled  together  within  their  little 
cells,  shutting  out  the  blasts  of  winter  by  wall- 
ing up  superfluous  doors  and  windows.  Aper- 
tures so  walled  are  found  in  all  the  ruins. 

The  mountainous  weight  of  these  great  piles 
had  no  more  solid  foundation  than  the  surface 
of  the  alluvium.  Although  the  thickness  of  the 
walls  at  their  bases — usually  more  than  three 
feet — was  sufficient  to  give  them  a  measure 
of  stability,  yet  the  architect  in  nearly  every 
instance  made  the  outer  row  of  rooms  much 
narrower  and  shorter  than  the  others,  so  that 
the  two  outermost  walls  might  with  their  strong 
connecting  walls  the  better  support  each  other. 
In  every  ruin  it  is  the  outermost  wall  which 
has  suffered  greatest  from  the  ravages  of  time, 
while  its  neighbor,  braced  upon  both  sides 
by  the  cross  walls,  is  usually  the  best  preserved. 
The  double  wall  was  evidently  regarded  by 
the  ancients  as  a  single  and  essential  feature 
of  their  architecture,  and  they  extended  it  even 
to  lines  which  were  designed  merely  to  com- 
plete the  inclosure  of  their  plazas.  In  these 
cases  the  two  walls  were  connected  and  braced 
by  masonry  at  short  intervals,  and  the  cells 


lOO 


PREHISTORIC   CAVE-DWELLINGS. 


thus  formed  were  utilized  as  living  and  store 
rooms. 

The  Chacoans,  like  all  the  community 
dwellers  of  the  region,  ancient  and  modern, 
were  great  potters,  and  immense  mounds 
of  broken  ware,  tastefully  ornamented  in 
colors  according  to  barbaric  standards,  are 
found  in  the  neighborhood  of  all  the  larger 


DETAILS    OF     WALL    STRUCTURE. 


ruins — the  ac- 
cumulation and 
breakage  of 
generations. 

The       most 
curious        and 
mysterious  fea- 
tures of  the 
ruins  are 
circular 
tanks  of 
masonry 
varying 
in  diam- 
eter from 
fifteen  to 

more  than  sixty  feet.  Bonito  had  a  dozen  of 
them,  and  the  very  smallest  ruin  had  one.  They 
were  built  with  an  especial  view  to  resisting 
pressure  from  within,  the  spaces  about  them 
being  filled  with  broken  stone  and  clay,  and  their 
walls  being  sometimes  supported  extensively  by 
radiating  braces  of  masonry.  They  had  no  en- 
trances or  apertures  of  any  kind  other  than  their 
open  tops.    What  purpose  did  they  serve  ? 

The  water  question  early  became  one  of 
anxious  consideration  with  our  party,  notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  the  little  Rio  Chaco  ran 
within  fifty  feet  of  our  tents.  The  stream  was 
an  evasive  brooklet  whose  comings  and  goings 
were  an  interesting  mystery.  We  had  no  rain 
until  the  day  before  our  departure,  yet  I  often 
noticed  that  the  volume  of  water  increased  four 
or  five  fold  between  sunrise  and  nine  or  ten 
o'clock,  while  it  would  disappear  entirely  before 
night.  The  stream,  though  free  from  alkali,  held 


its  freight  of  clay  with  the  grip  of  a  chemical  so- 
lution, and  was  unfit  for  drinking  or  for  culinary 
purposes,  even  if  left  standing  over  night  in 
the  mess  kettle.  Ellison,  the  muleteer,  solved 
the  question  temporarily  by  putting  into  prac- 
tice a  device  learned  from  the  Mexicans.  Hav- 
ing gathered  a  shovelful  of  prickly  pears,  he 
burned  off  their  spines,  crushed  them,  and  put 
them  into  a  kettle  of  water.  After  half  an  hour 
of  vigorous  stirring  the  clay  took  a  curdled 
appearance  and  sank  to  the  bottom.  A  day 
or  two  later  we  luckily  found  a  rock  pocket  in 
the  cliffs,  containing  several  barrelfuls  of  clear 
rain  water,  and  we  quenched  our  thirst  for  the 
first  time  in  many  days  without  a  suspicion 
of  mud,  prickly  pears,  or  wrigglers. 

I  dwell  upon  the  water  question  for  a  pur- 
pose. It  must  have  been  one  of  absorbing 
interest  to  the  ancients ;  for  although  the  cli- 
matic conditions  of  the 
region  were  then  more 
favorable  to  the  support 
of  human  life,  yet  there 
doubtless  were  seasons 
when  the  Chaco,  for 
months  perhaps  at  a  time, 
ceased  to  flow. 

I  have  said  that  in  all 
the  ruins  there  are  tanks. 
The  smallest  ruin  in  the 
canon  stands  not  more 
than  thirty  feet  from  the 


face  of  the  cliff,  and  consists  of  a  single  circular 
tank,  surrounded  by  a  parallelogram  of  double 
walls.  Here  the  tank  is  the  chief  feature  of  the 
structure,  and  the  outer  walls,  with  the  cells 
formed  by  their  connecting  braces  of  masonry, 
are  incidents  in  the  plan  for  securing  strength. 
The  cells  in  this  case  have  no  entrances  or  venti- 
lating apertures,  and  moreover  are  solidly  filled 
in  with  rubble  and  dirt.  The  tank  is  twenty- 
eight  and  a  half  feet  in  diameter.  The  cliff 
overhead  is  gullied  just  above  this  structure 


PREHISTORIC   CAVE-DWELLINGS. 


901 


by  rain  water,  which  here  makes  its  way  over 
the  crest  into  the  canon.  Nothing  could  have 
been  easier  than  to  place  troughs  beneath  and 
convey  a  portion  of  the  treasure  into  the  tank. 
Manifestly  this  structure  was  a  reservoir.  One 
mile  distant  is  found  another  ruin  bearing 
similar  relations  to  the  cliff,  and  consisting 
of  three  circular  tanks  inclosed  within  a  par- 
allelogram one  hundred  and  thirty  by  seventy- 
three  feet.  The  cells  in  this  structure  were 
utilized  as  living-rooms,  though  they  were 
evidently  mere  incidents  in  the  plan  for  secur- 
ing strength  to  the  tanks.  The  bottoms  of  the 
tanks  in  both  these  structures  are  consider- 
ably higher  than  the  floor  of  the  canon,  and 
their  contents  might  easily  be  drawn  off  by 
siphons  to  the  plain  below,  but  the  sug- 
gestion credits  the  ancients  with  a  greater 
knowledge  of  hydraulics  than  they  probably 
possessed. 

In  applying  the  water- 
tank  theory  to  the  larger 
ruins  one  meets  with  diffi- 
culties, but  they  do  not  seem 
insurmountable.  Bonito 
and  at  least  three  other  of 
the  larger  pueblos  are  near 
enough  to  the  cliff  to  war- 
rant the  supposition  that 
water  was  conveyed  from 
the  crest  to  their  tanks  in 
troughs.  With  regard  to 
Pueblo  del  Arroyo,  which  is 
several  hundred  feet  from 
the  cliff,  and  to  those  ruins 
which  stand  upon  the  mesa 
tops,  the  problem  is  still 
more  difficult.  Perhaps  the 
water  which  fell  upon  their 
broad  roofs  was  conveyed  to 
their  tanks.  Possibly  so  pa- 
tient a  people  as  this  carried 
water  from  the  lower  level, 
as  the  Moquis  do  to-day  up 
a  steep  seven  times  greater ; 
but  unlike  the  Moquis,  they 
carried  supplies  in  time  of 
plenty  to  fill  their  tanks 
against  the  time  of  drought. 
Possibly  again  they  filled 
their  tanks  when  only  the 
water  of  the  stream  was  to 
be  obtained,  and  that  was 
too  muddy  for  use;  long 
standing  in  the  tanks  would 
doubtless  clarify  it  suffi- 
ciently for  cooking  purposes 
and  for  drinking,  which,  if 
one  may  judge  by  the  habits 
of  living  pueblo  Indians, 
were  the  only  uses  made  of 
Vol.  XL.— 118. 


water.  Series  of  earthworks  are  found  in  the 
neighborhood  of  the  more  elevated  ruins  which 
at  first  glance  suggest  defensive  purposes,  but 
which  were  probably  made  to  catch  and  hold 
the  rain  water  falling  upon  the  summits  until 
it  could  be  carried  in  jars  to  the  tanks  within 
the  pueblos. 

"  You  would  find,"  said  one  for  whose  opin- 
ion I  entertain  the  highest  respect,  "  that  ma- 
sonry laid  in  mud  would  not  long  hold  water." 
This  suggestion  would  have  been  fatal  to  my 
theory,  and  I  should  have  abandoned  it,  had 
I  not  found  in  another  locality  a  tank  upon 
the  inner  surface  of  which  there  remained  por- 
tions of  a  lining  similar  in  substance  to  the 
pottery  of  the  ancients.  It  had  evidently  been 
laid  on  with  trowels  and  baked,  and  to  a  cer- 
tain degree  glazed,  by  building  fires  within 
the  tank. 


-:o^~ 


1,1 ■  r.-wmW'^ 


& 


. 


& 


££ 


to 


"■ 


AWAITING     AN     INVITATION     TO     DINNliK. 


902 


PREHISTORIC   CA  VE-D  WELLING S. 


PtyPPi 


THE  PLAZA,  PUEBLO  PENASCA  BLANCA. 


The  temptation  to  pursue  the  speculation 
further  is  irresistible.  The  people,  having  set- 
tled down  in  villages,  improvidently  began  that 
system  of  denuding  their  region  of  its  forests 
to  which  is  due  the  fact  that  for  many  thou- 
sands of  square  miles  this  once  populous  region 
has  been  rendered  a  sterile  desert.  When  the 
climatic  change  began  prayers  and  incanta- 
tions for  rain  such  as  are  performed  by  all  the 
Western  tribes,  and  especially  by  the  Pueblos 
of  the  present  time,  were  resorted  to,  and  what 
place  so  quick  to  suggest  itself  for  the  purpose 
as  the  empty  tank  where  it  was  desired  the 
blessing  should  fall  ?  As  the  change  progressed 
the  pagan  rites  became  more  frequent,  and  be- 
fore the  hegira  of  the  degenerate  remnant  the 
tank  had  become  a  recognized  place  of  wor- 
ship and  a  necessary  adjunct  of  the  religious 
system. 

The  Spanish  invaders  under  Coronado  found 
the  Zuhis,  the  Moquis,  and  their  kind  worship- 
ping and  holding  council  in  places  of  some- 
what similar  construction  to  these  tanks,  and 
which  could  be  entered  only  from  the  top.  With- 
in fires  were  kept  perpetually  burning,  from 
which  fact  they  were  named  "  estufas  "  (stoves), 
a  name  that  they  retain  to  the  present  time. 
It  was  erroneously  assumed  that  their  peculiar 
form  was  adopted  the  better  to  preserve  the 
fires  for  economic  and  religious  purposes. 

The  Zunis  know  nothing  of  Chaco.  When 
asked  where  they  came  from  they  point  to 
the  northeast,  which  includes  the  entire  San 


Juan  region,  of  which  Chaco  is  a  part;  but 
beyond  the  most  nebulous  of  myths  and  tradi- 
tions relating  to  their  migration  and  its  causes 
they  have  nothing  to  tell.  The  late  Mr.  James 
Stevenson  of  the  National  Bureau  of  Ethnology, 
and  his  accomplished  wife,  who  made  them- 
selves familiar  with  the  Zuni  language  and  the 
traditions  of  the  fathers  of  the  tribe,  thought  the 
period  covered  by  their  more  or  less  authentic 
traditions  to  be  not  less  than  a  thousand  years, 
during  which  time  the  Zuhis  had  always  lived 
in  their  present  neighborhood.  These  people 
translate  and  imitate  the  symbolical  ornamen- 
tation upon  the  Chaco  pottery,  though  their 
work  is  in  some  respects  inferior  to  the  old. 

Here,  then,  we  find  a  tribe,  perhaps  descended 
from  the  Chacoans,  whose  religion,  so  far  as 
can  be  judged  by  its  symbolism,  is  identical; 
whose  tenacious  memories  preserve  the  story 
of  their  race  for  probably  a  thousand  years; 
yet  who  have  not  even  a  name  for  the  great- 
est metropolis  ever  known  by  their  ancestors. 

We  found  no  human  remains  in  Chaco  ex- 
cept some  fragments  of  skulls  in  Penasca 
Blanca.  They  lay  among  the  rubbish  of  a  fall- 
en outer  wall  as  if  they  had  rolled  from  within. 
They  may  have  been  the  relics  of  some  who 
perished  in  the  last  tragedy,  the  sacking  and 
destruction  of  the  place,  and  probably  had  no 
other  burial  than  that  afforded  by  the  fallen 
walls  of  their  home. 

Our  life  of  eight  days  in  the  canon,  though 
devoted  to  the  study  of  the  ruins,  never  be- 


PREHISTORIC  CAVE-DWELLINGS. 


9°3 


came  monotonous.  To  speculate,  as  we  sat 
around  the  mess-cloth  or  the  camp-fire,  upon 
the  manner  of  men  who  built  so  well  yet  so 
stupidly;  who  advanced  so  far  in  masonry 
yet  so  lagged  in  architecture  and  engineering ; 
who  made  fine  pottery,  as  millions  of  frag- 
ments attested,  yet  in  carpentry  used  only 
implements  of  stone;  who  built  strong  for- 
tresses at  commanding  points,  yet  for  still 
more  elaborate  structures  chose  sites  over 
which  an  enemy  might  sit  and  stone  them  to 
death  at  leisure — to  speculate  was  our  diver- 
sion. When  engaged  with  tape-line  and  com- 
pass there  were  toppling  walls  to  be  avoided 
and  cavernous  openings  to  be  crossed.  The 
latter  offered  access  to  many  hidden  ruins,  at 
risk  of  living  burial  or  of  death  from  the  bite 
of  poisonous  creatures.  Of  these  there  were 
tarantulas,  centipedes,  and  rattlesnakes.  But 
poisonous  creatures  were  not  the  only  inhabi- 
tants of  the  ruins.  Thousands  of  pretty  swifts 
darted  like  sunbeams  over  the  old  stones; 
horned  toads,  ugly  but  harmless,  were  more 


had  discovered  the  day  before  "  up  two,  tree 
pair  stair."  We  galloped  a  dozen  miles  east- 
ward and  reached  the  head  of  the  canon, 
whence,  having  mounted  a  sand-bar  which 
stretched  across  the  way,  we  saw,  two  or  three 
miles  farther  on,  the  "  kintail "  of  our  search. 
I  suffered  the  Indian  to  go  on  alone,  while  I 
waited  to  enjoy  the  rare  beauty  of  the  scene 
and  to  conjure  back  the  beings  who  had  had  the 
good  taste  to  select  such  a  charming  site  and 
the  sense  and  skill  to  build  so  enduringly.  The 
pile  was  lordly  even  in  its  ruin,  bearing  a  strong 
resemblance  to  some  of  the  ancient  feudal 
castles  of  Europe.  Standing  upon  the  crest 
of  a  long,  gentle  swell,  it  overlooked  a  dozen 
square  miles  of  rolling  country,  which  seemed 
even  now  to  be  white  and  yellow  to  the  har- 
vest. Behind  the  structure  there  stretched  for 
miles  what  appeared  in  the  distance  to  be  an 
orchard  of  wide-spreading  trees ;  and  in  front 
there  wound  the  course  of  a  pretty  brook. 

From  Chaco  Canon,  New  Mexico,  the  site 
of  the  grandest  of  the  ruined  pueblo  struc- 


LANDSCAPE  IN  CANON  DE  CHELLY. 


rarely  seen ;  rabbits  scurried  from  shelter  to 
shelter ;  ravens,  blacker,  glossier,  and  far  larger 
than  I  ever  saw  elsewhere,  hopped  and  croaked 
and  flopped  away  before  the  intruder;  and 
coyotes,  aroused  from  their  midday  naps, 
skulked  to  other  hiding-places  in  the  cliffs. 
One  morning  I  started,  under  the  guidance 
of  Manuelito,  to  visit  a  ruin  which  he  said  he 


tures,  to  Canon  de  Chelly,  Arizona,  the  ancient 
home  of  the  most  flourishing  community  of 
cave-dwellers,  was  a  week's  journey,  not  in- 
cluding a  short  stay  at  the  Navajo  agency  for 
repairs  and  supplies.  The  southernmost  en- 
trance to  Canon  de  Chelly  lies  forty-five  miles 
north  of  Fort  Defiance,  the  agency  of  the 
Navajos.    The   way  for  the  most  part  runs 


9°4 


PREHISTORIC   CAVE-DWEILINGS. 


through  a  magnificent  pine  park — a  feature  of 
the  highest  and  most  exposed  of  Western  forest 
plateaus.  It  is  a  fine  country  to  look  upon,  its 
trees  being  the  tallest  and  most  shapely  of  their 
species,  while  the  sward  beneath  is  entirely 
free  from  the  undergrowths  which  are  common 
to  Eastern  woodlands ;  but  it  lacks  water. 

The  neighborhood  of  the  canon  is  first  made 
known  by  an  ominous  crack  in  the  general 
level  a  few  hundred  feet  to  the  right,  and  the 
trail  swerves  a  little  to  the  left  as  if  to  avoid 
its  dangerous  proximity.    A  mile  farther  on 


sula.  When  we  had  crossed  the  isthmus  we 
halted  to  await  the  train,  guiding  it  by  voice 
and  gesture  as  it  came  in  sight  above,  for  the 
bare  rock  of  the  shelf  retained  but  faint  traces 
of  the  trail,  and  a  mistake  might  have  had  a 
fatal  ending.  From  our  standpoint  the  stream 
which  winds  through  the  canon  was  for  the 
first  time  visible  —  a  silver  thread  more  than  a 
thousand  feet  below.  Despite  the  distance  and 
the  threatening  path  before  us,  the  discovery 
was  reassuring,  for  that  gradual  revelation  of  the 
depth  as  experienced  in  our  sidling  approach 


RUINED     CAVE    VILLAGE,     CANON     DE    CHELLY. 


the  trail  turns  sharply  to  the  right  along  the 
foot  of  a  low  rock  wall,  and,  gently  descend- 
ing, approaches  the  brink  of  the  chasm,  which 
has  here  attained  three  hundred  feet  in  width 
and  shows  the  ragged  jaws  of  the  Inferno. 
Narrower  grows  the  rock-shelf  and  nearer 
comes  the  edge  of  the  widening  abyss  as  we 
proceed,  crowded  by  the  wall  more  and  more 
to  the  right;  and  now  another  yawning  gash 
opens  directly  in  front. 

At  this  point  Navajo  Charley,  our  new  guide, 
turned,  and,  almost  doubling  upon  the  path  we 
had  traveled,  led  the  way  down  an  incline  of 
forty  feet  to  a  narrow  rock  isthmus  which  af- 
forded a  passage  to  the  top  of  a  bold  penin- 


had  raised  fears  that  the  gorge  was  bottom- 
less—  that  the  globe  had  cracked  asunder. 

The  further  descent  was  not  dangerous, 
judging  it  from  a  frontiersman's  standpoint,  but 
I  remember  entertaining  a  wish  that  my  pony 
had  a  few  prehensile  members,  and  that  human 
knees  and  shins  were  less  susceptible  to  im- 
pressions of  canon  scenery.  The  train  was 
again  far  behind,  and  I  was  wondering  how  the 
heavily  laden  mules  could  pass  around  and  be- 
tween obstructions  which  left  hardly  room  for 
ourselves,  when  noises  began  to  reach  us  which 
were  not  comforting.  The  caves  and  fissures  of 
the  opposite  wall  uttered  oaths ;  the  canon  to  the 
right  and  left  waxed  emphatic  and  blasphe- 


9°5 


A    CLIFF    VILLAGE,     MONUMENTAL    CANON. 


mous ;  even  the  streak  of  blue  overhead  grew 
profane.  The  tones  were  Ellisor/s,  who  was 
five  hundred  feet  behind  andjis/far  above  us. 
.Hogan  wasjiear^rrie^pmg  blessings  upon 
the  hea^roTOldBones,  our  leading  pack  ani- 
mal, for  wishing  to  roll  down  the  side  of  the 
mountain  regardless  of  all  before  her.  A  shrill 
outcry,  followed  by  the  crashing  and  bumping 
of  a  great  boulder  as  it  tumbled  to  the  bot- 
tom, brought  us  to  a  halt.  During  the  silence 
which  followed  I  tried  to  find  out  what  had 
happened,  but  without  success.  When  the 
caves  and  fissures  resumed  their  cursings 
Charley  and  I  passed  on.  The  guide  had 
friends  in  the  canon,  and  when  we  had  reached 
the  bottom  he  galloped  on  alone,  feeling  con- 
fident, I  presume,  that  his  charge  might  be 
trusted  not  to  wander  from  a  path  which  was 
hemmed  in  by  walls  a  thousand  feet  high. 

First  impressions  on  coming  into  the  near 
presence  of  vertical  or  overhanging  altitudes 
like  these  are  disappointing.  Emotions  corre- 
spondingly deeper  than  those  excited  by  rock 
forms  a  hundred  feet  in  height  have  been  ex- 
pected but  are  not  experienced.  The  true  esti- 
mate of  the  grand  surroundings  is  a  thing  of 


growth.  Ordinary  standards  of  comparison  are 
lost.  Distances,  sizes,  heights,  appear  to  alter 
with  every  change  in  point  of  view.  Yonder  wall 
seems  but  a  few  hundred  yards  away,  yet  that 
speck  creeping  along  its  base  is  a  man  on  horse- 
back, and  those  other  specks,  crawling  like  in- 
sects over  its  talus,  are  sheep  and  goats.  Look  up 
towards  the  zenith  and  the  crest  of  the  near  preci- 
pice fringed  with  tiny  bushes  intervenes.  Move 
to  a  safer  distance  and  look  again ;  the  moun- 
tain still  overhangs  you.  Move  again  and  again 
and  that  impending  top  of  creation  follows  and 
threatens  you.  Then  when  the  brain  becomes 
dizzy,  when  the  eyes  ache  from  their  unaccus- 
tomed directions,  when  the  muscles  of  the  neck 
refuse  longer  to  hold  the  head  in  a  position  to 
look  upward,  a  conviction  finds  lodgment  that 
the  surface  of  the  earth  is  far  away. 

The  sounds  of  the  canon  are  almost  as  be- 
wildering as  its  sights.  That  rushing,  awful 
"  swish  "  is  not  a  tornado,  nor  yet  an  ava- 
lanche, but  the  flight  of  a  flock  of  little  jays 
from  side  to  side  of  the  pocket  on  the  left. 
That  music  does  not  proceed  from  a  crevice 
half  way  up  the  face  of  the  opposite  wall,  but 
is  the  noise  of  a  Navajo  singing  as  he  rides 


906 


PREHISTORIC   CA  VE-D  WELLING S. 


mm '        .  ,•    Wm 

5£  ':■•■  -  ''^^S^fef*; 


THE  WHITE  HOUSE,  CANON  DE  CHELLY. 


down  the  canon,  perhaps  three  miles  away. 
That  ear-piercing,  blood-curdling  combination 
of  rumble  and  screech  is  not  the  blast  of  a  dozen 
river  steamboats  in  unison,  but  the  voice  of 
Calamity  Jane,  who  has  reached  the  bottom 
last  of  the  train  and  is  calling  to  her  fellow- 
mules  just  coming  into  sight  around  the  corner. 

We  selected  for  our  first  camping-place  a 
V-shaped  pocket  upon  the  west  side  of  the 
canon,  having  an  area  of  about  an  acre.  Op- 
posite its  mouth  stand  the  Captains  —  twin 
monumental  rocks  from  which  the  monu- 
mental canon  takes  its  name.  The  taller  is 
seven  hundred  and  forty-two  feet  from  base 
to  summit  and  only  seventy-five  feet  in  width 
at  any  point.  It  was  hard  to  believe  that 
Washington  Monument  if  placed  beside  this 
tapering  shaft  would  reach  but  two-thirds  of 
the  way  to  its  top ;  but  the  rock  was  dwarfed 
by  the  stupendous  walls  about  it. 

Canon  de  Chelly  (a  senseless  corruption  of 


the  Indian  name,  Segy)  and  its  two  prin- 
cipal branches,  Monumental  Canon  and  Canon 
del  Muerto,  have  an  aggregate  length  of 
more  than  forty  miles.  They  vary  in  width 
from  two  hundred  to  three  thousand  feet,  and 
their  walls,  which  are  precipitous  throughout, 
are  from  eight  hundred  to  fourteen  hundred 
feet  in  height.  Through  all  the  branches  there 
run  streams  of  clear  water  uniting  in  the  main 
canon  to  form  the  little  Rio  del  Chelly,  which 
loses  itself  in  the  sands  of  the  northern  desert 
soon  after  it  leaves  the  shelter  of  its  native 
rocks.  The  soil  of  the  canon,  though  light,  is 
fertile,  and  under  the  tillage  of  a  more  intelli- 
gent race  would  bear  rich  crops.  Peaches, 
watermelons,  and  cantaloups,  all  of  excellent 
quality,  were  abundant  during  our  visit,  but 
Navajo  prices  would  impoverish  a  Wall  street 
king.  Corn,  too,  was  abundant,  but  it  was 
overripe  for  our  use.  The  place  is  the  sum- 
mer home  of  a  considerable  community  of  In- 


PREHISTORIC   CA  VE-D  WELLINGS. 


907 


dians,  and  a  favorite  resort  in  the  corn  and 
fruit  season  for  the  western  half  of  the  entire 
tribe.  Though  not  comparable  in  grandeur  to 
the  Grand  Canon  or  the  Yosemite,  it  is  nev- 
ertheless one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  Western 
canons;  and  when  the  Navajo  nation  shall 
have  fulfilled  its  destiny,  be  it  extinction, 
civilization,  or  removal,  this  will  become  one 
of  the  show  places  of  a  marvelous  plateau  re- 
gion. The  September  climate  of  the  canon  is 
enchanting.  No  storms  are  to  be  looked  for,  be- 
cause the  rainy  season  is  over.  The  midday  sun 
is  likely  to  be  oppressive,  but  there  is  always 
the  cool  shade  of  the  overhanging  rocks  for 
shelter,  while  the  mornings  and  evenings  are 
balmy  and  springlike.  The  nights  upon  the 
plateau  above  are  frigid,  and  heavy  frost  forms 
upon  one's  blankets,  but  down  in  this  gorge 
the  mountains  which  have  absorbed  the  heat 
of  the  day  give  it  back  at  night. 

Our  first  day's  exploration  was  towards  the 
head  of  the  main  canon.  The  guide  said  that 
all  the  larger  ruins  were  in  the  other  direction ; 
but  recalling  our  experience  in  Chaco,  we 
determined  to  examine  the  outlying  groups 
first  as  a  sort  of  pre- 
paratory course  of 
study.  We  had  an 
impression  that  we 
could  begin  at  one 
end  of  the  canon 
and  examine  all  the 
groups  —  one  hun- 
dred and  thirteen 
in  number — seria- 
tim as  we  traveled 
northward,  an  im- 
pression which  did 
not  outlast  the  day 
of  its  birth. 

To  the  observer 
riding  along  the 
trail  the  ruins  look 
not  larger  than 
dovecotes,  and 
they  have  the  pro- 
perty of  seeming 
no  nearer  after  one 
has  climbed  up 
two  or  three  hun- 
dred feet  towards 
them.  One  readily 
undertakes  the  as- 
cent    persuading 

himself  that  it  is  an  easy  task  to  mount  the 
sloping  talus,  but,  the  jaunt  accomplished, 
there  is  a  sense  of  having  had  exercise  enough 
for  a  day. 

In  the  innumerable  windings  of  the  canon 
there  are  found  usually  upon  the  concave 
side  huge  weatherings  —  places  from  which 


masses  of  the  bedded  strata  have  fallen,  leav- 
ing shallow  caves  with  sloping  bottoms  and 
high  overarching  tops.  The  detritus  at  the 
feet  of  the  cliffs  often  affords  means  of  access 
at  some  point  to  these  retreats,  and  in  such 
the  ancients  usually  built  their  homes.  Many 
groups  are  wholly  inaccessible  to  moderns,  later 
detrition  having  left  wide  intervening  spaces 
of  the  smooth  vertical  rock.  In  some  cases 
after  climbing  mountains  of  detritus  the  ad- 
venturer finds  it  necessary  to  pass  long  dis- 
tances along  narrow  shelves  of  rock,  whence  a 
fall  would  result  in  quick  destruction ;  or  to 
climb  over  the  smooth  talus  by  means  of  foot- 
holes  of  the  size  and  shape  of  shallow  tea-cups. 
Other  ruins  are  accessible  only  by  rope  climb- 
ing, a  lasso  having  first  been  thrown  over  a 
projecting  pole  or  knob;  and  still  others  can 
be  gained  only  by  "  shinning  "  up  notched  log 
ladders,  some  of  which  remain  in  place  from 
the  ancient  days. 

The  cave-dwellers  built  rubble  walls  and 
plastered  them  over  smoothly,  outside  and  in, 
with  mud.  With  the  exception  of  two  or  three 
groups,  the  work  displays  nothing  worthy  of 


SOUTH  SIDE  OF  CANON  DEL  MUERTO. 


consideration  in  respect  to  architectural  de- 
sign, the  structures  usually  conforming  closely 
to  the  sinuosities  of  the  rock  which  always 
formed  their  rear  wall.  Their  masonry  is  in 
no  sense  comparable  to  that  of  the  builders 
of  the  great  Chaco  pueblos,  but  is  very  much 
like  that  of  the  living  Pueblo  Indians.     Two 


9o< 


PREHISTORIC   CAVE-DWELLINGS. 


MUMMY     CAVE     AND     VILLAGE,     CANON     DEL    MUERTO,     ARIZONA. 


groups  only  are  found  upon  the  canon  bot- 
tom, and  one  I  am  sure  (probably  both)  dates 
from  much  earlier  times  than  those  in  the 
caves.  In  one  of  them  a  small  section  of  the 
banded  wall,  the  exact  counterpart  of  those 
found  in  Chaco,  remains. 

The  cave  villages  are  found  sometimes  only 
thirty  feet  from  the  level,  sometimes  eight  hun- 
dred feet.  The  reason  why  such  sites  were 
selected  does  not  fully  appear ;  doubtless  pro- 
tection and  defense  were  controlling  motives, 
but  whether  from  floods  to  which  the  canon 
is  subject  in  winter  and  spring,  from  out- 
side foes,  or  from  one  another,  nothing  remains 
to  tell.  Certainly  the  motive  was  a  strong  one, 
for  the  undertaking  contemplated  not  only  the 
carriage  of  building  materials  upon  human 
shoulders  up  the  steeps  in  the  beginning,  but 
thereafter  and  perpetually  food,  fuel,  and  wa- 
ter. The  conclusion  so  often  and  so  easily 
reached,  that  these  were  places  of  refuge  from 


the  raiding  attacks  of  the  more  powerful  no- 
madic races  or  of  enemies  among  their  own  kin, 
while  perhaps  the  best  that  offers,  does  not 
wholly  meet  the  requirements  of  the  case;  for, 
unlike  the  Chaco  structures,  these  groups,  with 
half  a  dozen  exceptions,  had  no  water-tanks,  and 
their  occupants  would  have  been  at  the  mercy 
of  any  who  were  strong  enough  to  drive  them 
to  their  caves.  So  far  as  appearances  go  they 
seem  to  have  been,  not  the  places  of  occasional 
retreat,  but  the  regular,  permanent  abiding- 
places  of  their  builders.  They  may  have  been 
storehouses  and  the  winter  homes  of  a  race 
which  in  summer  dwelt  in  temporary  structures 
upon  the  canon  bottom.  The  water  question 
would  of  course  have  been  one  easy  of  solu- 
tion during  the  period  of  deep  snows  and 
floods.  If  this  be  the  answer  to  the  riddle  it 
may  be  said  that  the  ancients  were  wiser  than 
their  successors  the  Navajos ;  for  the  latter,  to 
the    last   man,  woman,  and  child,  leave  the 


PREHISTORIC   CA  VE'-D  WELIINGS. 


909 


canon  walls  at  the  season  when  shelter  would 
seem  to  be  most  desirable,  and  spend  the  winter 
upon  the  bleak  plateau  above. 

The  traces  of  fires  are  found  in  the  ruins,  and 
the  smearings  of  prehistoric  gravies  and  soups 
are  occasionally  discoverable.  Rock  paintings 
abound.  Hundreds  of  the  shapes  of  human 
hands  —  the  autographs  perhaps  of  the  dwell- 
ers—  are  found  adorning  the  now  inaccessible 
roofs  of  some  of  the  caves.  They  were  formed 
by  thrusting  the  hand  into  the  liquid  coloring 
matter  and  slapping  it  with  fingers  extended 
upon  the  rock.  Symbols  are  frequent :  the 
dragon-fly,  the  rainbow,  the  sun  —  objects  of 
reverence  to  the  living  Pueblos.  Few  ani- 
mals were  pictured ;  the  elk,  the  antelope,  the 
red  deer,  and  the  coyote  being  most  numer- 
ously represented.  Fowls  of  an  unrecognizable 
species,  and  occasionally  represented  with  one 
or  more  superfluous  legs,  are  found.  As  works 
of  art  these  paintings  rarely  rise  above  the 
rudest  of  school-boy  drawings ;  but  sometimes 
rather  elaborate  scenes  were  attempted.  The 
most  remarkable  I  studied  for  an  hour  with 
the  glass,  seated  three  hundred  feet  below,  but 
could  make  little  of  its  meaning.  It  was  prob- 
ably a  battle  scene,  but  it  might  have  been  a 
dance  or  a  sacrifice.  A  row  of  thirteen  black 
forms  were  pictured  as  marching  elbow  to  el- 
bow, and  below  them  was  a  second  row  of 
seven  similar  but  headless  forms.  Two  forms 
in  yellow,  the  larger  leading  the  smaller  by  the 
hand,  were  represented  as  running  away  from 
the  advancing  rows,  while  a  gigantic  figure  in 
black  standing  upon  the  head  of  a  yellow  bull- 
frog was  shown  in  the  act  of  hurling  javelins 
at  the  approaching  army.  The  cave  dwellings 
were  ruins  before  the  Spanish  invasion ;  other- 
wise this  might  be  supposed  to  represent  that 
event.  If  it  be  taken  to  be  a  battle  scene,  as 
it  appears,  the  query  suggests  itself,  What  earlier 
race  than  the  Spaniards  ever  fought  in  pla- 
toons ?  A  great  many  other  human  forms  are 
pictured  upon  this  rock,  but  their  relationship 
to  those  described  could  not  be  determined. 

Unless  I  have  greatly  mistaken  the  purpose 
of  certain  queer  little  contrivances  of  masonry, 
some  of  the  members  of  the  smaller  communi- 
ties—  boarders  probably — had  for  their  bed- 
rooms cells  like  elongated  ovens  stuck  upon 
outlying  ledges  too  narrow  for  other  use,  into 
which  they  went  feet  foremost.  To  reach  them 
they  scaled  escarpments  over  which  a  rabbit, 
unless  the  most  foolhardy  of  his  kind,  could 
not  be  driven  or  tempted.  There  were  little 
nests  of  this  kind  for  children  also.  A  civilized 
father  would  as  lief  hang  his  child  out  of  a 
fifth-story  window  to  sleep. 

The  most  remarkable  group  of  ruins  for  sit- 
uation is  found  in  a  narrow  pocket  or  branch 
of  Monumental  Canon  two  or  three  miles 
Vol.  XL. — 119. 


south  of  the  Captains.  It  is  about  seven  hun- 
dred feet  above  the  bottom  of  the  canon,  which 
is  here  very  narrow ;  and  I  shall  despair  of 
conveying  any  adequate  idea  of  its  situation 
and  surroundings  without  permission  to  make 
use  of  a  far-fetched  illustration.  Cleave  the 
auditorium  of  a  large  theater  midway  between 
the  entrance  and  the  footlights  and  insert  the 
part  which  does  not  contain  the  footlights  into 
the  upper  half  of  a  thousand-foot  precipice. 
Remove  the  galleries,  but  in  their  place  let 
there  be  a  series  of  narrow  ledges  at  the  back 
of  the  concavity  with  zigzag  connecting  ledges 
between  the  lower  and  the  upper  ones.  Raise  the 
roof  a  hundred  feet  and  knock  out  the  floor  en- 
tirely. You  will  then  have  spoiled  your  theater, 
but  you  will  have  made  a  fair  model  of  the  site 
of  this  village.  Place  two  cheese-boxes  and 
half  a  dozen  tea-chests  upon  the  uppermost 
ledge  and  you  will  have  a  model  of  the  village  it- 
self as  it  appeared  to  us  from  the  top  of  the  slope 
two  hundred  feet  below.  There  were  structures 
on  the  lower  ledge  also,  but  they  were  of  a 
humbler  character  than  those  above,  though 
doubtless  also  once  occupied  as  dwellings. 

The  finest  group  of  ruins  in  these  canons, — 
though  not  the  largest, —  and  probably  the  best 
specimen  of  the  handiwork  of  the  cave-dwellers 
in  existence,  is  known  as  the  White  House. 
Its  site  is  a  cave  whose  floor  lies  about  thirty 
feet  above  the  bottom  of  the  canon,  and  is 
accessible  only  by  rope  climbing  up  the  ver- 
tical face  of  a  perfectly  smooth  precipice.  The 
first  line  of  structures  have  their  fronts  flush 
with  the  precipice,  their  position,  together  with 
their  little  loophole  windows  and  irregularly 
castellated  tops,  suggesting  that  they  were  de- 
signed as  the  outer  line  of  a  strong  fortress. 
Rising  above  this  line  are  seen  the  walls  of 
an  inner  and  smaller  structure,  which,  being 
painted  white,  forms  a  conspicuous  and  attrac- 
tive feature  in  a  most  remarkable  landscape. 
Above,  nine  hundred  feet  of  smooth  bellying 
rock  so  overhangs  the  place  that  a  plumb- 
line  from  its  crest  would  pass  about  seventy  feet 
in  front  of  the  outermost  wall  of  the  old  vil- 
lage. The  cave  has  a  lateral  reach  of  ninety- 
four  feet  and  a  depth  of  forty  feet.  The  ruin 
is  called  by  the  Navajos  something  which  sig- 
nifies "  the  abode  of  many  captains."  Without 
doubt  it  was  the  home  of  authority  and  com- 
parative wealth.  It  is  the  only  painted  cave- 
dwelling  of  which  I  have  any  knowledge. 
Its  walls  are  well  preserved,  and  those  of  the 
inner  buildings  bear  evidence  in  their  rude 
ornamentation  of  the  superior  taste  of  its 
dwellers.  Dados  with  borders  of  saw-teeth 
and  rows  of  dots  all  in  yellow  paint  adorn  the 
rooms,  the  alignment  of  which  is  better  and 
the  plastering  smoother  than  usual.  There  are 
seventeen  rooms  in  this  cave. 


910 


PREHISTORIC   CAVE-DWEILINGS. 


Upon  the  canon  bottom  just  below  the 
White  House  there  stands  a  ruined  pueblo 
much  larger,  and  apparently  of  much  earlier 
date,  than  the  cave  ruin. 

The  largest  group  of  ruins  in  this  vicinity, 
and  probably  the  largest  of  its  class  —  cave- 
dwellings  of  masonry  —  in  the  world,  is  that  dis- 
covered by  Stevenson  a  year  before  my  visit.  It 
is  found  near  the  head  of  Canon  del  Muerto, 
and  is  known  as  Mummy  Cave,  from  the  fact 
that  its  discoverer  found  near  it  an  undisturbed 
cyst  from  which  he  removed  a  well-preserved 
mummy.  The  southern  wall  of  the  canon  here 
retreats,  forming  a  wide,  shallow  bay,  around 
which,  at  the  height  of  about  two  hundred  feet 
from  the  bottom,  there  extends  a  sloping  shelf 
which  was  terraced  by  the  ancients  to  make 
the  foundation  of  their  village.  The  crest  of 
the  precipice  extends  far  enough  to  cover  the 
entire  group,  which  was  probably  the  home 
of  more  than  a  thousand  individuals.  The 
terrace  and  all  that  stood  upon  it  has  fallen 
away,  and  now  forms  part  of  an  immense  mass 
of  debris  which  makes  the  cave  more  easily  ac- 
cessible than  formerly.  Only  those  walls  re- 
main which  were  founded  upon  the  solid  rock 
at  the  back  of  the  cave,  and  many  of  these  show 
little  more  than  the  foundation  lines. 

The  evidence  of  an  aristocracy  or  control- 
ling class  is  here  very  striking.  The  cave  is 
shaped  like  two  unequal  crescents  joined  end 
to  end,  and  the  apartments,  or  rather  cells,  of 
the  two  portions  are  small  and  of  irregular 
form,  following  the  conformation  of  the  rock. 
At  the  point  of  junction,  however,  covering 
almost  entirely  the  narrower  shelf,  there  stands 
a  rectangular  tower  three  stories  in  height,  the 
rooms  of  which,  as  well  as  those  in  its  imme- 
diate neighborhood,  are  larger  and  the  walls 
and  floors  much  better  in  construction  than 
those  upon  either  side.  The  tower  commands 
the  village,  as  feudal  towns  were  commanded 
by  the  castles  of  their  lords. 

This  village  contained  several  tanks,  or  "  es- 
tufas,"  circular  in  form,  and  with  walls  of  unu- 
sual strength,  which  were  probably  designed 
to  hold  a  supply  of  water.  It  is  impossible  to 
discover  how  the  ancients  managed  to  fill  them, 
but  the  water  marks  down  the  face  of  the  preci- 
pice, above  the  village,  suggested  a  way  in 
which  it  may  have  been  done.  Conduits,  or 
even  ropes,  stretched  from  the  crest  above 
to  the  tanks  would  have  served  the  purpose  in 
the  rainy  season.  One  of  these  structures,  and 
that  nearest  to  the  tower,  is  unique  both  in 
form  and  ornamentation.  It  has  a  large  rec- 
tangular recess  at  one  side,  while  narrow  ledges 
surround  its  interior,  broken  at  two  opposite 
points  into  steps,  as  if  for  descent  from  the 
river  to  the  bottom.  The  inner  coating  of  this 
apartment  is  of  common  clay,  and  was  appar- 


ently put  on  by  the  later  occupants  of  the 
village.  Where  this  has  peeled  off  a  highly 
ornamental  earlier  coating  of  the  interior  is 
disclosed.  It  was  frescoed  in  geometrical  fig- 
ures of  brownish-red,  white,  and  yellow,  and 
the  workmanship  is  such  as  would  not  be 
discreditable  to  modern  artisans.  The  pur- 
pose of  this  apartment  cannot  be  determined 
with  certainty.  Perhaps — nay,  probably  —  it 
marks  the  last  stage  of  development  which 
began  with  the  water  tank  and  ended  in  the 
place  of  worship.  The  modern  pueblos  have 
nothing  like  it. 

The  Navajos  have  occupied  this  region 
for  centuries,  and  in  fact  know  no  other  home, 
although  their  dimmest  tradition  hints  at  a 
migration  ages  ago  from  the  far  north.  They 
apply  the  term  "Eua-suz-y  "  —the  enemy  — 
both  to  the  ruins  and  to  their  builders ;  but 
its  pertinency  cannot  be  discovered,  since  their 
traditions  do  not  tell  of  wars  with  the  ancients. 
On  the  contrary,  they  account  for  the  depart- 
ure of  the  latter  by  superhuman  agencies. 
The  devil,  say  the  Navajos,  carried  them 
away,  and  in  his  flight  took  the  roofs  of  the 
houses  with  him  —  hence  their  roofless  con- 
dition. 

Late  in  the  afternoon,  before  breaking  camp 
No.  i,  Ellison  and  I  went  out  half  a  mile 
from  camp  to  look  again  at  a  group  we  had 
barely  glanced  at  as  we  entered  the  canon. 
We  found  it  inaccessible,  but  while  study- 
ing it  with  the  glass  from  the  opposite  side 
of  the  canon  we  accidentally  discovered  an- 
other and  smaller  group  which  we  thought 
could  be  reached.  It  required  nearly  half  an 
hour  of  hard  climbing  to  bring  us  to  the  spot. 
The  structure  proved  to  be  a  small  one,  hav- 
ing only  two  apartments ;  but  one  of  them 
was  sealed,  showing  not  so  much  as  the  small- 
est peep-hole.  Here  was  a  mystery  which  we 
determined  to  solve  at  once.  All  the  other 
ruins,  we  reasoned,  had  been  subjected  to  the 
prying  curiosity  of  the  Navajos  for  centuries ; 
but  this  had  escaped  because  the  savages 
possessed  no  glasses,  such  as  by  a  fortunate 
accident  had  revealed  its  existence  to  us. 
That  we  were  on  the  eve  of  interesting  discov- 
eries we  could  not  doubt.  I  seized  a  stone, 
and  attacking  the  mud  cement  of  the  wall 
soon  effected  a  small  hole,  and  then  John  re- 
lieved me  and  enlarged  the  hole  to  the  size 
of  his  head.  Dank  odors,  as  of  decaying  mum- 
mies and  long-entombed  mysteries,  seemed  to 
come  out.  We  thrust  in  lighted  straw,  but  it 
went  out  as  if  put  into  water.  John  enlarged 
the  hole  somewhat  and  cautiously  thrust  in 
his  head.  He  waited  until  his  eyes  had  ad- 
justed themselves  to  the  gloom,  and  then  said 
in  tones  which  sounded  sepulchral  to  me : 
"  I  see  pottery  with  water   in    it."    Mirabile 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


911 


dictu  /  Had  not  pottery  with  water  in  it  been 
found  in  the  tombs  of  ancient  Egypt  ?  I 
pulled  him  away  and  thrust  my  own  head  into 
the  place.  It  seemed  an  hour  before  I  could 
make  out  anything,  but  then  I  saw  just  below 
me  a  circle  with  a  shining  interior.  A  min- 
ute later  I  had  traced  a  shape,  as  of  a  portly 
human  body,  lying  upon  its  back,  and  the  cir- 
cle was  upon  its  chest.  There  too  was  a  round 
thing,  as  its  skull,  lying  near  its  neck.  Then  I 
slowly  reached  in  my  hand.  "  Look  out  for 
snakes,"  cried  Ellison,  and  I  drew  back  as  if 
I  already  felt  their  sting.  Again  I  reached  in 
—  touched  the  circle;  it  moved;  my  fingers 
closed  upon  it  and  slowly  brought  it  out. 
"  Great  Scott,  John  Ellison !  Have  I  come 
two  thousand  miles  and  turned  grave  robber 
for  this  ?."  I  held  in  my  hand  a  wooden  shell 
with  a  fine  wire  bottom  —  a  common  sieve 
such  as  every  New  England  kitchen  was  fur- 
nished with  in  my  youth.  Had  the  Eua- 
suz-y  come  to  this,  and  did  they  bury  their 
kitchen  ware  with  their  fat  men  ?  I  reached 
in  again  and  pinched  the  "  corpse."  It  proved 
to  be  a  bag  of  corn.  I  felt  for  the  "  skull," 
but  it  rolled  away,  and  in  so  doing  disclosed 
a  curious  bottle-neck.  I  had  now  become 
more  accustomed    to  the  gloom,  and    could 


make  out  a  variety  of  articles  —  hames,  chains, 
hoes,  and  small  ware.  Enlarging  the  hole,  I 
entered  and  made  further  discoveries.  There 
were  two  pieces  of  ancient  Indian  pottery,  and 
the  round  thing  with  the  bottle-neck  was  a 
Pah-ute  water-bottle  of  straw  and  varnish. 

John  came  in  and  we  soberly  discussed  the 
matter,  reaching  the  conclusion  that  these 
were  the  hidden  relics  of  some  dire  tragedy. 
Some  early  emigrant  traveling  with  his  family 
and  property  in  a  wagon  had  wandered  hither, 
been  murdered,  and  the  evidence  of  the  crime 
thus  concealed.  The  theory  did  not  quite 
meet  the  facts,  for  how  account  for  the  Indian 
pottery  and  the  water  jar  ?  But  we  had  done 
our  best  in  its  construction.  The  pottery  and 
the  bottle  were  at  least  curious,  as  ugly  as 
anything  in  the  National  Museum  at  Wash- 
ington, and  I  determined  to  carry  them  away 
as  such.  A  week  later  a  villainous-looking 
Navajo  and  his  wife  rode  into  camp  a  dozen 
miles  distant  and  demanded  pay  for  their 
property.  We  had  robbed  not  the  dead  Eua- 
suz-y,  but  the  living  Navajos,  the  place  having 
been  the  "safe  deposit"  of  an  Indian  family 
who  wished  to  be  absent  from  their  home  for 
a  time. 

F  T.  Bickford, 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


RflSKSiJs 

li§P 

mvC^vWy 

^■r  tbyv,  w  I  f jE  A 

W&&) *Y 

rlaBr 

ffiSc^J 

V  5  3E^\mi 

JkK])jja2H??3/ 

HE  last  of  the  neighbors 
was  going  home ;  officious 
Mrs.  Peter  Downs  had 
lingered  late  and  sought 
for  additional  housework 
with  which  to  prolong  her 
stay.  She  had  talked  in- 
cessantly, and  buzzed  like 
a  busy  bee  as  she  helped  to  put  away  the  best 
crockery  after  the  funeral  supper,  while  the 
sisters  Betsey  and  Hannah  Knowles  grew 
every  moment  more  forbidding  and  unwilling 
to  speak.  They  lighted  a  solitary  small  oil 
lamp  at  last  as  if  for  Sunday  evening  idleness, 
and  put  it  on  the  side  table  in  the  kitchen. 

"  We  ain't  intending  to  make  a  late  evening 
of  it,"  announced  Betsey,  the  elder,  standing 
before  Mrs.  Downs  in  an  expectant,  final  way, 
making  an  irresistible  opportunity  for  saying 
good-night.  "I  'm  sure  we  're  more  than 
obleeged  to  ye, —  ain't  we,  Hannah  ?  —  but  I 
don't  feel  's  if  we  ought  to  keep  ye  longer. 
We  ain't  going  to  do  no  more  to-night,  but 
set  down  a  spell  and  kind  of  collect  ourselves, 
and  then  make  for  bed." 

Susan  Downs  offered  one  more  plea.    "  I  'd 


stop  all  night  with  ye  an'  welcome ;  't  is  gettin' 
late  —  an'  dark,"  she  added  plaintively;  but 
the  sisters  shook  their  heads  quickly,  and  Han- 
nah said  that  they  might  as  well  get  used  to 
staying  alone,  since  they  would  have  to  do  it 
first  or  last.  In  spite  of  herself  Mrs.  Downs 
was  obliged  to  put  on  her  funeral  best  bonnet 
and  shawl  and  start  on  her  homeward  way. 

"  Close-mouthed  old  maids!  "  she  grumbled 
as  the  door  shut  behind  her  all  too  soon  and 
denied  her  the  light  of  the  lamp  along  the  foot- 
path. Suddenly  there  was  a  bright  ray  from 
the  window,  as  if  some  one  had  pushed  back 
the  curtain  and  stood  with  the  lamp  close  to 
the  sash.  "  That 's  Hannah,"  said  the  retreat- 
ing guest.  "  She  'd  told  me  somethin'  about 
things,  I  know,  if  it  had  n't  'a'  been  for  Betsey. 
Catch  me  workin'  myself  to  pieces  again  for 
'em."  But,  however  grudgingly  this  was  said, 
Mrs.  Downs's  conscience  told  her  that  the  in- 
dustry of  the  past  two  days  had  been  some- 
what selfish  on  her  part ;  she  had  hoped  that 
in  the  excitement  of  this  unexpected  funeral 
season  she  might  for  once  be  taken  into  the 
sisters'  confidence.  More  than  this,  she  knew 
that  they  were  certain  of  her  motive,  and  had 


912 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


deliberately  refused  the  expected  satisfaction. 
"  'T  ain't  as  if  I  was  one  o'  them  curious  busy- 
bodies  anyway,"  she  said  to  herself  pityingly  ; 
"  they  might  'a'  neighbored  with  somebody  for 
once,  I  do  believe."  Everybody  would  have  a 
question  ready  for  her  the  next  day,  for  it  was 
known  that  she  had  been  slaving  herself  de- 
votedly since  the  news  had  come  of  old  Cap- 
tain Knowles's  sudden  death  in  his  bed  from 
a  stroke,  the  last  of  three  which  had  in  the 
course  of  a  year  or  two  changed  him  from 
a  strong  old  man  to  a  feeble,  chair-bound 
cripple. 

Mrs.  Downs  stepped  bravely  along  the  dark 
country  road ;  she  could  see  a  light  in  her  own 
kitchen  window  half  a  mile  away,  and  did  not 
stop  to  notice  either  the  penetrating  dampness 
or  the  shadowy  woods  at  her  right.  It  was  a 
cloudy  night,  but  there  was  a  dim  light  over 
the  open  fields.  She  had  a  disposition  of  mind 
towards  the  exciting  circumstances  of  death 
and  burial,  and  was  in  request  at  such  times 
among  her  neighbors ;  in  this  she  was  like  a 
city  person  who  prefers  tragedy  to  comedy, 
but  not  having  the  semblance  within  her 
reach,  she  made  the  most  of  looking  on  at  real 
griefs  and  departures. 

Some  one  was  walking  towards  her  in  the 
road ;  suddenly  she  heard  footsteps.  The  fig- 
ure stopped,  then  came  forward  again. 

"  Oh,  't  is  you,  ain't  it  ?  "  with  a  tone  of 
disappointment.  "  I  cal'lated  you  'd  stop  all 
night,  't  had  got  to  be  so  late,  an'  I  was  just 
going  over  to  the  Knowles  gals' ;  well,  to  kind 
o'  ask  how  they  be,  an' —  "  Mr.  Peter  Downs 
was  evidently  counting  on  his  visit. 

"  They  never  passed  me  the  compliment," 
replied  the  wife.  "  I  declare  I  did  n't  covet 
the  walk  home ;  I  'm  'most  beat  out,  bein'  on 
foot  so  much.  I  was  'most  put  out  with  'em 
for  lettin'  of  me  see  quite  so  plain  that  my 
room  was  better  than  my  company.  But  I  don' 
know  's  I  blame  'em ;  they  want  to  look  an' 
see  what  they  've  got,  an'  kind  of  git  by  their 
selves,  I  expect.    'T  was  natural." 

Mrs.  Downs  knew  that  her  husband  would 
resent  her  first  statements,  being  a  sensitive 
and  grumbling  man.  She  had  formed  a  pa- 
cific habit  of  suiting  her  remarks  to  his  point 
of  view  to  save  an  outburst.  He  contented 
himself  with  calling  the  Knowles  girls  hoggish, 
and  put  a  direct  question  as  to  whether  they 
had  let  fall  any  words  about  their  situation, 
but  Martha  Downs  was  obliged  to  answer  in 
the  negative. 

"  Was  Enoch  Holt  there  after  the  folks  come 
back  from  the  grave  ?  " 

"He  wa'  n't;  they  never  give  him  no  encour- 
agement neither." 

"  He  appeared  well,  I  must  say,"  continued 
Peter  Downs.  "  He  took  his  place  next  but  one 


behind  us  in  the  procession,  'long  of  Melinda 
Dutch,  an'  walked  to  an'  from  with  her,  give 
her  his  arm,  and  then  I  never  see  him  after  we 
got  back;  but  I  thought  he  might  be  some- 
where in  the  house,  an'  I  was  out  about  the 
barn  an'  so  on." 

"  They  was  civil  to  him.  I  was  by  when  he 
come,  just  steppin'  out  of  the  bedroom  after 
we  'd  finished  layin'  the  old  Cap'n  into  his  cof- 
fin. Hannah  looked  real  pleased  when  she  see 
Enoch,  as  if  she  had  n't  reelly  expected  him, 
but  Betsey  stuck  out  her  hand  's  if  't  was  an 
eend  o'  board,  an'  drawed  her  face  solemner  'n 
ever.  There,  they  had  natural  feelin's.  He 
was  their  own  father  when  all  was  said,  the 
Cap'n  was,  an'  I  don't  know  but  he  was 
clever  to  'em  in  his  way,  'ceptin'  when  he  dis- 
appointed Hannah  about  her  marryin'  Jake 
Good'in.  She  l'arned  to  respect  the  old  Cap'n's 
foresight,  too." 

"  Sakes  alive,  Marthy,  how  you  do  knock 
folks  down  with  one  hand  an'  set  'em  up  with 
t'  other,"  chuckled  Mr.  Downs.  They  next 
discussed  the  Captain's  appearance  as  he  lay 
in  state  in  the  front  room,  a  subject  which, 
with  its  endless  ramifications,  would  keep  the 
whole  neighborhood  interested  for  weeks  to 
come. 

An  hour  later  the  twinkling  light  in  the 
Downs  house  suddenly  disappeared.  As  Mar- 
tha Downs  took  a  last  look  out  of  doors 
through  her  bedroom  window  she  could  see 
no  other  light ;  the  neighbors  had  all  gone  to 
bed.  It  was  a  little  past  nine,  and  the  night 
was  damp  and  still. 

ii. 

The  Captain  Knowles  place  was  eastward 
from  the  Downs',  and  a  short  turn  in  the  road 
and  the  piece  of  hard-wood  growth  hid  one 
house  from  the  other.  At  this  unwontedly  late 
hour  the  elderly  sisters  were  still  sitting  in  their 
warm  kitchen ;  there  were  bright  coals  under 
the  singing  tea-kettle  which  hung  from  the 
crane  by  three  or  four  long  pothooks.  Betsey 
Knowles  objected  when  her  sister  offered  to 
put  on  more  wood. 

"  Father  never  liked  to  leave  no  great  of  a 
fire,  even  though  he  slept  right  here  in  the 
bedroom.  He  said  this  floor  was  one  that  would 
light  an'  catch  easy,  you  r'member." 

"  Another  winter  we  can  move  down  and 
take  the  bedroom  ourselves  —  't  will  be  warmer 
for  us,"  suggested  Hannah ;  but  Betsey  shook 
her  head  doubtfully.  The  thought  of  their 
old  father's  grave,  unwatched  and  undefended 
in  the  outermost  dark  field,  filled  their  hearts 
with  a  strange  tenderness.  They  had  been  his 
dutiful,  patient  slaves,  and  it  seemed  like  dis- 
loyalty to  have  abandoned  the  poor  shape,  to 
be  sitting  there  disregarding  the  thousand  re- 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


9l3 


quirements  and  services  of  the  past.  More  than 
all,  they  were  facing  a  free  future ;  they  were 
their  own  mistresses  at  last,  though  past  sixty 
years  of  age.  Hannah  was  still  a  child  at 
heart.  She  chased  away  a  dread  suspicion, 
when  Betsey  forbade  the  wood,  lest  this  elder 
sister,  who  favored  their  father's  looks,  might 
take  his  place  as  stern  ruler  of  the  house- 
hold. 

"  Betsey,"  said  the  younger  sister  suddenly, 
"  we  '11  have  us  a  cook  stove,  won't  we,  next 
winter  ?  I  expect  we  're  going  to  have  some- 
thing to  do  with  ?  " 

Betsey  did  not  answer ;  it  was  impossible  to 
say  whether  she  truly  felt  grief  or  only  assumed 
it.  She  had  been  sober  and  silent  for  the  most 
part  since  she  routed  neighbor  Downs,  though 
she  answered  her  sister's  prattling  questions 
with  patience  and  sympathy.  Now  she  rose 
from  her  chair  and  went  to  one  of  the  windows, 
and,  pushing  back  the  sash  curtain,  pulled  the 
wooden  shutter  across  and  hasped  it. 

"  I  ain't  going  to  bed  just  yet,"  she  explained. 
"  I  've  been  a-waiting  to  make  sure  nobody  was 
coming  in.  I  don't  know  's  there  '11  be  any  bet- 
ter time  to  look  in  the  chest  and  see  what  we  've 
got  to  depend  on.  We  never  '11  get  no  chance 
to  do  it  by  day." 

Hannah  looked  frightened  for  a  moment, 
then  nodded,  and  turned  to  the  opposite  win- 
dow and  pulled  that  shutter  with  much  diffi- 
culty ;  it  had  always  caught  and  hitched  and 
been  provoking  —  a  warped  piece  of  red  oak, 
when  even- grained  white  pine  would  have 
saved  strength  and  patience  to  three  genera- 
tions of  the  Knowles  race.  Then  the  sisters 
crossed  the  kitchen  and  opened  the  bedroom 
door.  Hannah  shivered  a  little  as  the  colder 
air  struck  her,  and  her  heart  beat  loudly.  Per- 
haps it  was  the  same  with  Betsey. 

The  bedroom  was  clean  and  orderly  for  the 
funeral  guests.  Instead  of  the  blue  homespun 
there  was  a  beautifully  quilted  white  coverlet 
which  had  been  part  of  their  mother's  wedding 
furnishing,  and  this  made  the  bedstead  with 
its  four  low  posts  look  unfamiliar  and  awesome. 
The  lamplight  shone  through  the  kitchen  door 
behind  them,  not  very  bright  at  best,  but  Bet- 
sey reached  under  the  bed,  and  with  all  the 
strength  she  could  muster  pulled  out  the  end 
of  a  great  sea  chest.  The  sisters  tugged  to- 
gether and  pushed,  and  made  the  most  of 
their  strength  before  they  finally  brought  it 
through  the  narrow  door  into  the  kitchen. 
The  solemnity  of  the  deed  made  them  both 
whisper  as  they  talked,  and  Hannah  did  not 
dare  say  what  was  in  her  timid  heart  —  that 
she  would  rather  brave  discovery  by  daylight 
than  such  a  feeling  of  being  disapprovingly 
watched  now  in  the  dead  of  night.  There 
came  a  slight  sound  outside  the  house  which 


made  her  look  anxiously  at  Betsey,  but  Betsey 
remained  tranquil. 

"  It  's  nothing  but  a  stick  falling  down  the 
woodpile,"  she  answered  in  a  contemptuous 
whisper,  and  the  younger  woman  was  reas- 
sured. 

Betsey  reached  deep  into  her  pocket  and 
found  a  great  key  which  was  worn  smooth  and 
bright  like  silver,  and  never  had  been  trusted 
willingly  into  even  her  own  safe  hands.  Han- 
nah held  the  lamp,  and  the  two  thin  figures 
bent  eagerly  over  the  lid  as  it  opened.  Their 
shadows  were  waving  about  the  low  walls,  and 
looked  like  strange  shapes  bowing  and  dan- 
cing behind  them. 

The  chest  was  stoutly  timbered,  as  if  it  was 
built  in  some  ship-yard,  and  there  were  heavy 
wrought-iron  hinges  and  a  large  escutcheon  for 
the  keyhole  that  the  ship's  blacksmith  might 
have  hammered  out.  On  the  top  somebody 
had  scratched  deeply  the  crossed  lines  for  a 
game  of  fox  and  geese,  and  this  had  a  trivial, 
irreverent  look,  and  might  have  been  the 
unforgiven  fault  of  some  idle  ship's  boy.  The 
sisters  had  hardly  dared  look  at  the  chest 
or  to  signify  their  knowledge  of  its  exist- 
ence at  unwary  times.  They  had  swept  care- 
fully about  it  year  after  year,  and  wondered  if 
it  was  indeed  full  of  gold  as  the  neighbors 
used-  to  hint ;  but  no  matter  how  much  found 
a  way  in,  little  had  found  the  way  out.  They 
had  been  hampered  all  their  lives  for  money, 
and  in  consequence  had  developed  a  wonder- 
ful facility  for  spinning  and  weaving,  mending 
and  making.  Their  small  farm  was  an  early 
example  of  intensive  farming;  they  were  al- 
lowed to  use  its  products  in  a  niggardly  way,  but 
the  money  that  was  paid  for  wool,  for  hay,  for 
wood,  and  for  summer  crops  had  all  gone  into 
the  chest.  The  old  captain  was  a  hard  master ; 
he  rarely  commended  and  often  blamed.  Han- 
nah trembled  before  him,  but  Betsey  faced  him 
sturdily,  being  amazingly  like  him,  with  a  fem- 
inine difference;  as  like  as  a  ruled  person  can  be 
to  a  ruler,  for  the  discipline  of  life  had  taught 
the  man  to  aggress,  the  woman  only  to  defend. 
In  the  chest  was  a  fabled  sum  of  prize-money, 
besides  these  slender  earnings  of  many  years ; 
all  the  sisters'  hard  work  and  self-sacrifice  were 
there  in  money  and  a  mysterious  largess  be- 
sides. All  their  lives  they  had  been  looking 
forward  to  this  hour  of  ownership. 

There  was  a  solemn  hush  in  the  house ;  the 
two  sisters  were  safe  from  their  neighbors,  and 
there  was  no  fear  of  interruption  at  such  an 
hour  in  that  hard-working  community,  tired 
with  a  day's  work  that  had  been  early  begun. 
If  any  one  came  knocking  at  the  door,  both 
door  and  windows  were  securely  fastened. 

The  eager  sisters  bent  above  the  chest,  they 
held  their  breath  and  talked  in  softest  whis- 


914 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


pers.  With  stealthy  tread  a  man  came  out  of 
the  woods  near  by. 

He  stopped  to  listen,  came  nearer,  stopped 
again,  and  then  crept  close  to  the  old  house. 
He  stepped  up  on  the  banking,  next  the  win- 
dow with  the  warped  shutter;  there  was  a 
knothole  in  it  high  above  the  women's  heads, 
towards  the  top.  As  they  leaned  over  the  chest 
an  eager  eye  watched  them.  If  they  had 
turned  that  way  suspiciously  the  eye  might 
have  caught  the  flicker  of  the  lamp  and  be- 
trayed itself.  No,  they  were  too  busy :  the 
eye  at  the  shutter  watched  and  watched. 

There  was  a  certain  feeling  of  relief  in  the 
sisters'  minds  because  the  contents  of  the  chest 
were  so  commonplace  at  first  sight.  There 
were  some  old  belongings  dating  back  to  their 
father's  early  days  of  seafaring.  They  unfolded 
a  waistcoat  pattern  or  two  of  figured  stuff 
which  they  had  seen  him  fold  and  put  away 
again  and  again.  Once  he  had  given  Betsey 
a  gay  China  silk  handkerchief,  and  here  were 
two  more  like  it.  They  had  not  known  what 
a  store  of  treasures  might  be  waiting  for  them, 
but  the  reality  so  far  was  disappointing ;  there 
was  much  spare  room  to  begin  with,  and  the 
wares  within  looked  pinched  and  few.  There 
were  bundles  of  papers,  old  receipts,  some 
letters  in  two  not  very  thick  bundles,  some 
old  account  books  with  worn  edges,  and  a 
blackened  silver  can  which  looked  very  small 
in  comparison  with  their  anticipation,  being 
an  heirloom  and  jealously  hoarded  and  se- 
creted by  the  old  man.  The  women  began  to 
feel  as  if  his  lean,  angry  figure  were  bending 
with  them  over  the  sea  chest. 

They  opened  a  package  done  up  in  many 
layers  of  old  soft  paper  —  a  worked  piece  of 
Indian  muslin,  and  an  embroidered  scarf  which 
they  had  never  seen  before.  "  He  must  have 
brought  them  home  to  mother,"  said  Betsey 
with  a  great  outburst  of  feeling.  "  He  never 
was  the  same  man  again ;  he  never  would  let 
nobody  else  have  them  when  he  found  she 
was  dead,  poor  old  father !  " 

Hannah  looked  wistfully  at  the  treasures. 
She  rebuked  herself  for  selfishness,  but  she 
thought  of  her  pinched  girlhood  and  the  de- 
light these  things  would  have  been.  Ah  yes ! 
it  was  too  late  now  for  many  things  besides 
the  sprigged  muslin.  "  If  I  was  young  as  I  was 
once  there  's  lots  o'  things  I  'd  like  to  do  now 
I  'm  free,"  said  Hannah  with  a  gentle  sigh; 
but  her  sister  checked  her  anxiously  —  it  was 
fitting  that  they  should  preserve  a  semblance 
of  mourning  even  to  themselves. 

The  lamp  stood  in  a  kitchen  chair  at  the 
chest's  end  and  shone  full  across  their  faces. 
Betsey  looked  intent  and  sober  as  she  turned 
over  the  old  man's  treasures.  Under  the  India 
mull  was  an  antique  pair  of  buff  trousers,  a 


waistcoat  of  strange  old-fashioned  foreign  stuff, 
and  a  blue  coat  with  brass  buttons,  brought 
home  from  over  seas,  as  the  women  knew,  for 
their  father's  wedding  clothes.  They  had  seen 
him  carry  them  out  at  long  intervals  to  hang 
them  in  the  spring  sunshine;  he  had  been 
very  feeble  the  last  time,  and  Hannah  remem- 
bered that  she  had  longed  to  take  them  from 
his  shaking  hands. 

"  I  declare  for  't  I  wish  't  we  had  laid  him 
out  in  'em,  'stead  o'  the  robe,"  she  whispered ; 
but  Betsey  made  no  answer.  She  was  kneel- 
ing still,  but  held  herself  upright  and  looked 
away.  It  was  evident  that  she  was  lost  in  her 
own  thoughts. 

"  I  can't  find  nothing  else  by  eyesight,"  she 
muttered.  "  This  chest  never  'd  be  so  heavy 
with  them  old  clothes.  Stop  !  Hold  that  light 
down,  Hannah;  there  's  a  place  underneath 
here.  Them  papers  in  the  till  takes  a  shallow 
part.  Oh,  my  gracious !  See  here,  will  ye  ? 
Hold  the  light,  hold  the  light!" 

There  was  a  hidden  drawer  in  the  chest's 
side  —  a  long,  deep  place,  and  it  was  full  of 
gold  pieces.  Hannah  had  seated  herself  in  the 
chair  to  be  out  of  her  sister's  way.  She  held 
the  lamp  with  one  hand  and  gathered  her  apron 
on  her  lap  with  the  other,  while  Betsey,  exult- 
ant and  hawk-eyed,  took  out  handful  after 
handful  of  heavy  coins,  letting  them  jingle  and 
chink,  letting  them  shine  in  the  lamp's  rays, 
letting  them  roll  across  the  floor  —  guineas, 
dollars,  doubloons,  old  French  and  Spanish 
and  English  gold ! 

Now,  ?iow  /  Look  I  The  eye  at  the  window  / 

At  last  they  have  found  it  all ;  the  bag  of 
silver,  the  great  roll  of  bank  bills,  and  the 
heavy  weight  of  gold  —  the  prize-money  that 
had  been  like  Robinson  Crusoe's  in  the  cave. 
They  were  rich  women  that  night ;  their  faces 
grew  young  again  as  they  sat  side  by  side  and 
exulted  while  the  old  kitchen  grew  cold.  There 
was  nothing  they  might  not  do  within  the 
range  of  their  timid  ambitions ;  they  were 
women  of  fortune  now  and  their  own  mis- 
tresses.   They  were  beginning  at  last  to  live. 

The  watcher  outside  was  cramped  and 
chilled.  He  let  himself  down  softly  from  the 
high  step  of  the  winter  banking  and  crept 
towards  the  barn,  where  he  might  bury  himself 
in  the  hay  and  think.  His  fingers  were  quick 
to  find  the  peg  that  opened  the  little  barn 
door;  the  beasts  within  were  startled  and 
stumbled  to  their  feet,  then  went  back  to  their 
slumbers.  The  night  wore  on ;  the  light  spring 
rain  began  to  fall,  and  the  sound  of  it  on  the 
house  roof  close  down  upon  the  sisters'  bed 
lulled  them  quickly  to  sleep.  Twelve,  one, 
two  o'clock  passed  by. 

They  had  put  back  the  money  and  the 
clothes  and   the  minor  goods  and  treasures 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


9*5 


and  pulled  the  chest  back  into  the  bedroom 
so  that  it  was  out  of  sight  from  the  kitchen ; 
the  bedroom  door  was  always  shut  by  day. 
The  younger  sister  wished  to  carry  the  money 
to  their  own  room,  but  Betsey  disdained  such 
precaution.  The  money  had  always  been  safe 
in  the  old  chest,  and  there  it  should  stay. 
The  next  week  they  would  go  to  Riverport 
and  put  it  into  the  bank ;  it  was  no  use  to  lose 
the  interest  any  longer.  Because  their  father 
had  lost  some  invested  money  in  his  early 
youth  it  did  not  follow  that  every  bank  was 
faithless.  Betsey's  self-assertion  was  amazing, 
but  they  still  whispered  to  each  other  as  they 
got  ready  for  bed.  With  strange  forgetfulness 
Betsey  had  laid  the  chest  key  on  the  white 
coverlet  in  the  bedroom  and  left  it  there. 


in. 

In  August  of  that  year  the  whole  country 
side  turned  out  to  go  to  court. 

The  sisters  had  been  rich  for  one  night ;  in 
the  morning  they  waked  to  find  themselves 
poor  with  a  bitter  pang  of  poverty  of  which 
they  had  never  dreamed.  They  had  said  lit- 
tle, but  they  grew  suddenly  pinched  and  old. 
They  could  not  tell  how  much  money  they 
had  lost,  except  that  Hannah's  lap  was  full  of 
gold,  a  weight  she  could  not  lift  nor  carry. 
After  a  few  days  of  stolid  misery  they  had 
gone  to  the  chief  lawyer  of  their  neighbor- 
hood to  accuse  Enoch  Holt  of  the  robbery. 
They  dressed  in  their  best  and  walked  sol- 
emnly side  by  side  across  the  fields  and  along 
the  road,  the  shortest  way  to  the  man  of  law. 
Enoch  Holt's  daughter  saw  them  go  as  she 
stood  in  her  doorway  and  felt  a  cold  shiver 
run  through  her  frame  as  if  in  foreboding. 
Her  father  was  not  at  home ;  he  had  left  for 
Boston  late  on  the  afternoon  of  Captain 
Knowles's  funeral.  He  had  had  notice  the 
day  before  of  the  coming  in  of  a  ship  in  which 
he  owned  a  thirty-second ;  there  was  talk  of 
selling  the  ship,  and  the  owners'  agent  had 
summoned  him.  He  had  taken  pains  to  go  to 
the  funeral  because  he  and  the  old  captain  had 
been  on  bad  terms  ever  since  they  had  bought 
a  piece  of  woodland  together  and  the  captain 
declared  himself  wronged  at  the  settling  of 
accounts.  He  was  growing  feeble  even  then, 
and  had  left  the  business  to  the  younger  man. 
Enoch  Holt  was  not  a  trusted  man,  yet  he 
had  never  before  been  openly  accused  of  dis- 
honesty. He  was  not  a  professor  of  religion, 
but  foremost  on  the  secular  side  of  church 
matters.  Most  of  the  men  in  that  region  were 
hard  men;  it  was  difficult  to  get  money,  and 
there  was  little  real  comfort  in  a  community 
where  the  sterner,  stingier,  forbidding  side  of 
New  England  life  was  well  exemplified. 


The  proper  steps  had  been  taken  by  the 
officers  of  the  law,  and  in  answer  to  the  writ 
Enoch  Holt  appeared,  much  shocked  and  very 
indignant,  and  was  released  on  bail  which  cov- 
ered the  sum  his  shipping  interest  had  brought 
him.  The  weeks  had  dragged  by,  June  and 
July  were  long  in  passing,  and  here  was  court 
day  at  last,  and  all  the  townsfolk  hastening 
by  high-roads  and  by-roads  to  the  court-house. 
The  Knowles  girls  themselves  had  risen  at 
break  of  day  and  walked  the  distance  stead- 
fastly, like  two  of  the  three  Fates  :  who  would 
make  the  third,  to  cut  the  thread  for  their 
enemy's  disaster  ?  Public  opinion  was  divided. 
There  were  many  voices  ready  to  speak  on  the 
accused  man's  side  ;  a  sharp-looking  acquain- 
tance left  his  business  in  Boston  to  swear  that 
Holt  was  in  his  office  before  noon  on  the  day 
following  the  robbery,  and  that  he  had  spent 
most  of  the  night  in  Boston,  as  proved  by 
several  minor  details  of  their  interview.  As 
for  Holt's  young  married  daughter,  she  was  a 
favorite  with  the  townsfolk,  and  her  husband 
was  away  at  sea  overdue  these  last  few  weeks. 
She  sat  on  one  of  the  hard  court  benches  with 
a  young  child  in  her  arms,  born  since  its  father 
sailed;  they  had  been  more  or  less  unlucky, 
the  Holt  family,  though  Enoch  himself  was  a 
man  of  brag  and  bluster. 

All  the  hot  August  morning  until  the  noon 
recess,  and  all  the  hot  August  afternoon,  fly 
teased  and  wretched  with  the  heavy  air,  the 
crowd  of  neighbors  listened  to  the  trial.  There 
was  not  much  evidence  brought;  everybody 
knew  that  Enoch  Holt  left  the  funeral  proces- 
sion hurriedly  and  went  away  on  horseback 
towards  Boston.  His  daughter  knew  no  more 
than  this.  The  Boston  man  gave  his  testimony 
impatiently,  and  one  or  two  persons  insisted 
that  they  saw  the  accused  on  his  way  at  night- 
fall several  miles  from  home. 

As  the  testimony  came  out  it  all  tended  to 
prove  his  innocence,  though  public  opinion 
was  to  the  contrary.  The  Knowles  sisters 
looked  more  stern  and  gray  hour  by  hour; 
their  vengeance  was  not  to  be  satisfied ;  their 
accusation  had  been  listened  to  and  found 
wanting,  but  their  instinctive  knowledge  of  the 
matter  counted  for  nothing.  They  must  have 
been  watched  through  the  knothole  of  the 
shutter;  nobody  had  noticed  it  until  some  years 
before  Enoch  Holt  himself  had  spoken  of  the 
light's  shining  through  on  a  winter's  night  as 
he  came  towards  the  house.  The  chief  proof 
was  that  nobody  else  could  have  done  the 
deed.  But  why  linger  over  pros  and  cotis  ? 
The  jury  returned  directly  with  a  verdict  of 
"  not  proven,"'  and  the  tired  audience  left  the 
court-house. 

But  not  until  Hannah  Knowles  with  angry 
eyes  had  risen  to  her  feet. 


916 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


The  sterner  elder  sister  tried  to  pull  her  back; 
every  one  said  that  they  should  have  looked 
to  Betsey  to  say  the  awful  words  that  followed, 
not  to  her  gentler  companion.  It  was  Hannah, 
broken  and  disappointed,  who  cried  in  a  strange 
high  voice  as  Enoch  Holt  was  passing  by 
without  a  look : 

"  You  stole  it,  you  thief!  You  know  it  in  your 
heart ! " 

The  startled  man  faltered,  then  he  faced  the 
women.  The  people  who  stood  near  seemed 
made  of  eyes  as  they  stared  to  see  what  he 
would  say. 

"  I  swear  by  my  right  hand  I  never  touched 
it." 

"  Curse  your  right  hand  then  !  "  cried  Han- 
nah Knowles,  growing  tall  and  thin  like  a 
white  flame  drawing  upward.  "  Curse  your 
right  hand,  yours  and  all  your  folks'  that  fol- 
low you !    May  I  live  to  see  the  day  !  " 

The  people  drew  back  while  for  a  moment 
accused  and  accuser  stood  face  to  face.  Then 
Holt's  flushed  face  turned  white,  and  he  shrank 
from  the  fire  in  those  wild  eyes,  and  walked 
away  clumsily  down  the  court-room.  Nobody 
followed  him,  nobody  shook  hands  with  him 
or  told  the  acquitted  man  that  they  were  glad 
of  his  release.  Half  an  hour  later  Betsey  and 
Hannah  Knowles  took  their  homeward  way, 
to  begin  their  hard  round  of  work  again.  The 
horizon  that  had  widened  with  such  glory  for 
one  night  had  closed  round  them  again  like 
an  iron  wall. 

Betsey  was  alarmed  and  excited  by  her  sis- 
ter's uncharacteristic  behavior,  and  she  looked 
at  her  anxiously  from  time  to  time.  Hannah  had 
become  the  harder-faced  of  the  two.  Her  dis- 
appointment was  the  keener,  for  she  had  kept 
more  of  the  unsatisfied  desires  of  her  girlhood 
until  that  dreary  morning  when  they  found  the 
sea  chest  rifled  and  the  treasure  gone. 

Betsey  said  inconsequently  that  it  was  a 
pity  she  did  not  have  that  black  silk  gown 
that  would  stand  alone.  They  had  planned 
for  it  over  the  open  chest,  and  Hannah's  was 
to  be  a  handsome  green.  They  might  have 
worn  them  to  court.  But  even  the  pathetic 
facetiousness  of  her  elder  sister  did  not  bring 
a  smile  to  Hannah  Knowles'sface,  and  the  next 
day  one  was  at  the  loom  and  the  other  at  the 
wheel  again.  The  neighbors  talked  about  the 
curse  with  horror;  in  their  minds  a  fabric  of 
sad  fate  was  spun  from  the  bitter  words. 

The  Knowles  sisters  never  had  worn  silk 
gowns  and  they  never  would.  Sometimes  Han- 
nah or  Betsey  would  stealthily  look  over  the 
chest  in  one  or  the  other's  absence.  One  day 
when  Betsey  was  very  old  and  her  mind  had 
grown  feeble  she  tied  her  own  India  silk  hand- 
kerchief about  her  neck,  but  they  never  used  the 
other  two.  They  aired  the  wedding  suit  once 


every  spring  as  long  as  they  lived.  They  were 
both  too  old  and  forlorn  to  make  up  the  India 
mull.  Nobody  knows  how  many  times  they 
took  everything  out  of  the  heavy  old  clamped 
box  and  peered  into  every  nook  and  corner  to 
see  if  there  was  not  a  single  gold  piece  left. 
They  never  answered  any  one  who  made  bold 
to  speak  of  their  misfortune. 


IV. 

Enoch  Holt  had  been  a  seafaring  man  in 
his  early  days,  and  there  was  news  that  the 
owners  of  a  Salem  ship  in  which  he  held  a 
small  interest  wished  him  to  go  out  as  super- 
cargo. He  was  brisk  and  well  in  health,  and 
his  son-in-law,  an  honest  but  an  unlucky  fel- 
low, had  done  less  well  than  usual,  so  that  no- 
body was  surprised  when  Enoch  made  ready 
for  his  voyage.  It  was  nearly  a  year  after  the 
theft,  and  nothing  had  come  so  near  to  restor- 
ing him  to  public  favor  as  his  apparent  lack 
of  ready  money.  He  openly  said  that  he  put 
great  hope  in  his  adventure  to  the  Spice  Isl- 
ands, and  when  he  said  farewell  one  Sunday 
to  some  members  of  the  dispersing  congrega- 
tion more  than  one  person  wished  him  heartily 
a  pleasant  voyage  and  safe  return.  He  had  an 
insinuating  tone  of  voice  and  an  imploring 
look  that  day,  and  this  fact,  with  his  probable 
long  absence  and  the  dangers  of  the  deep,  won 
him  much  sympathy.  It  is  a  shameful  thing  to 
accuse  a  man  wrongfully,  and  Enoch  Holt  had 
behaved  well  since  the  trial ;  and,  what  is  more, 
had  shown  no  accession  to  his  means  of  living. 
So  away  he  went  with  a  fair  amount  of  good 
wishes,  though  one  or  two  persons  assured  re- 
monstrating listeners  that  they  thought  it  likely 
Enoch  would  make  a  good  voyage,  better 
than  common,  and  show  himself  forwarded 
when  he  came  to  port.  Soon  after  his  depart- 
ure Mrs.  Peter  Downs  and  an  intimate  ac- 
quaintance discussed  the  ever-exciting  subject 
of  the  Knowdes  robbery  over  a  friendly  cup 
of  tea. 

They  were  in  the  Downs  kitchen  and  quite 
by  themselves.  Peter  Downs  himself  had  been 
drawn  as  a  juror,  and  had  been  for  two  days  at 
the  county  town.  Mrs.  Downs  was  giving  her- 
self to  social  interests  in  his  absence,  and  Mrs. 
Forder,  an  asthmatic  but  very  companionable 
person,  had  arrived  by  two  o'clock  that  after- 
noon with  her  knitting  work,  sure  of  being 
welcome.  The  two  old  friends  had  first  talked 
over  varied  subjects  of  immediate  concern, 
but  when  supper  was  nearly  finished  they  fell 
back  upon  the  lost  Knowles  gold,  as  has  been 
already  said. 

"  They  got  a  dreadful  blow,  poor  gals," 
wheezed  Mrs.  Forder  with  compassion. 
"  'T  was  harder  for  them  than  for  most  folks ; 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


917 


they  'd  had  a  long  stent  with  the  oF  gentle- 
man ;  very  arbitrary,  very  arbitrary." 

"  Yes,"  answered  Mrs.  Downs,  pushing  back 
her  tea-cup,  then  lifting  it  again  to  see  if  it 
was  quite  empty.  "  Yes,  it  took  holt  o'  Han- 
nah the  most.  I  should  'a'  said  Betsey  was  a 
good  deal  the  most  set  in  her  ways  an'  would 
'a'  been  most  tore  up,  but 't  wa'  n't  so." 

"  Lucky  that  Holt's  folks  sets  on  the  other 
aisle  in  the  meetin'  house,  I  do  consider,  so  't 
they  need  n't  face  each  other  sure  as  Sabbath 
comes  round." 

"  I  see  Hannah  an'  him  come  face  to  face 
two  Sabbaths  afore  Enoch  left.  So  happened 
he  dallied  to  have  a  word  'long  o'  Deacon 
Good'in,  an'  him  an'  Hannah  stepped  front  of 
each  other  'fore  they  knowed  what  they 's  about. 
I  sh'd  thought  her  eyes  'd  looked  right  through 
him.  No  one  of  'em  took  the  word;  Enoch 
he  slinked  off  pretty  quick." 

"  I  see  'em  too,"  said  Mrs.  Forder;  "  made 
my  blood  run  cold." 

"  Nothin'  ain't  come  of  the  curse  yit," —  Mrs. 
Downs  lowered  the  tone  of  her  voice, —  "  least, 
folks  says  so.  It  kind  o'  worries  pore  Phoebe 
Holt — Miss  Dow,  I  would  say.  She  was 
narved  all  up  at  the  time  o'  the  trial,  an'  when 
her  next  baby  come  into  the  world  first  thin' 
she  made  out  t'  ask  me  was  whether  it  seemed 
likely,  an'  she  gived  me  a  pleadin'  look  as  if 
I  'd  got  to  tell  her  what  she  had  n't  heart  to 
ask.  '  Yes,  dear,'  says  I, '  put  up  his  little  hands 
to  me  kind  of  wonted ' ;  an'  she  turned  a  look 
on  me  like  another  creatur',  so  pleased  an' 
contented." 

"  I  s'pose  you  don't  see  no  great  of  the 
Knowles  gals  ?  "  inquired  Mrs.  Forder,  who 
lived  two  miles  away  in  the  other  direction. 

"  They  stepped  to  the  door  yisterday  when 
I  was  passin'  by,  an'  I  went  in  an'  set  a  spell 
long  of  'em,"  replied  the  hostess.  "  They  'd 
got  pestered  with  that  ol'  loom  o'  theirn.  'Fore 
I  thought,  says  I,  '  'T  is  all  worn  out,  Betsey,' 
says  I ;  '  why  on  airth  don't  ye  git  somebody 
to  git  some  o'  your  own  wood  an'  season  it 
well  so  't  won't  warp,  same  's  mine  done,  an' 
build  ye  a  new  one  ? '  But  Betsey  muttered 
an'  twitched  away ;  't  wa'  n't  like  her,  but  they  're 
dis'p'inted  at  every  turn,  I  s'pose,  an'  feel  poor 
where  they  've  got  the  same  's  ever  to  do 
with.  Hannah's  a-coughin'  this  spring  's  if 
somethin'  ailed  her.  I  asked  her  if  she  had 
bad  feelin's  in  her  pipes,  an'  she  said  yis,  she 
had,  but  not  to  speak  of  't  before  Betsey.  I  'm 
goin'  to  fix  her  up  some  hoarhound  an'  ele- 
campane quick  's  the  ground  's  nice  an'  warm 
an'  roots  livens  up  a  grain  more.  They  're 
limp  an'  wizened  'long  to  the  fust  of  the  spring. 
Them  would  be  service'ble,  simmered  away  to 
a  syrup  'long  o'  molasses ;  now  don't  you  think 
so,  Miss  Forder  ?  " 
Vol.  XL. — 120. 


OFFICIOUS    MRS.    DOWNS 


"  Excellent,"  replied  the  wheezing  dame. 
"  I  covet  a  portion  myself,  now  you  speak. 
Nothin'  cures  my  complaint,  but  a  new  rem- 
edy takes  holt  clever  sometimes,  an'  eases  me 
for  a  spell."  And  she  gave  a  plaintive  sigh,  and 
began  to  knit  again. 

Mrs.  Downs  rose  and  pushed  the  supper 
table  to  the  wall  and  drew  her  chair  nearer  to 
the  stove.    The  April  nights  were  chilly. 

"  The  folks  is  late  comin'  after  me,"  said 
Mrs.  Forder,  ostentatiously.  "  I  may  's  well 
confess  that  I  told  'em  if  they  was  late  with 
the  work  they  might  let  go  o'  fetchin'  o'  me 
an'  I  'd  walk  home  in  the  mornin' ;  take  it 
easy  when  I  was  fresh.  Course  I  mean  ef 
't  would  n't  put  you  out :  I  knowed  you  was 
all  alone,  an'  I  kind  o'  wanted  a  change." 

"  Them  words  was  in  my  mind  to  utter  while 
we  was  to  table,"  avowed  Mrs.  Downs,  hos- 
pitably. "  I  ain't  reelly  afeared,  but  't  is  sort 
o'  creepy  fastenin'  up  an'  goin'  to  bed  alone. 
Nobody  can't  help  hearkin',  an'  every  common 
noise  starts  you.  I  never  used  to  give  nothin' 
a  thought  till  the  Knowleses  was  robbed, 
though." 

"  'T  was  mysterious,  I  do  maintain,"  ac- 
knowledged Mrs.  Forder.    "  Comes  over  me 


9i8 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


sometimes  p'raps  't  was  n't  Enoch ;  he  'd  'a' 
branched  out  more  in  course  o'  time.  I  'm 
waitin'  to  see  if  he  does  extry  well  to  sea  'fore 
I  let  my  mind  come  to  bear  on  his  bein'  clean- 
handed." 

"  Plenty  thought  't  was  the  ole  Cap'n  come 
back  for  it  an'  sperited  it  away.  Enough  said 
that 't  was  n't  no  honest  gains ;  most  on  't  was 


YOU     THIEF  ! 


YOU     STOLE     IT, 

prize-money  o'  slave  ships,  an'  all  kinds  o' 
devil's  gold  was  mixed  in.  I  s'pose  you  've 
heard  that  said  ?  " 

"Time  an'  again,"  responded  Mrs.  Forder; 
"  an'  the  worst  on  't  was  simple  ole  Pappy 
Flanders  went  an'  told  the  Knowles  gals  them- 
selves that  folks  thought  the  ole  Cap'n  come 
back  an'  got  it,  and  Hannah  done  wrong  to 
cuss  Enoch  Holt  an'  his  ginerations  after  him 
the  way  she  done." 

"  I  think  it  took  holt  on  her  ter'ble  after  all 
she  'd  gone  through,"  said  Mrs.  Downs,  com- 
passionately. "He  ain't  near  so  simple  as  he 
is  ugly,  Pappy  Flanders  ain't.  I  've  seen  him 
set  here  an'  read  the  paper  sober  's  anybody 
when  I  've  been  goin'  about  my  mornin's  work 
in  the  shed-room,  an'  when  I  'd  come  in  to  look 
about  he  'd  twist  it  with  his  hands  an'  roll  his 
eyes  an'  begin  to  git  off  some  o'  his  gabble. 
I  think  them  wanderin'  cheap-wits  likes  the  fun 
on  't  an'  'scapes  stiddy  work,  an'  gits  the  rovin' 
habit  so  fixed  it  sp'iles  'em." 

"  My  gran'ther  was  to  the  South  Seas  in  his 
young  days,"  related  Mrs.  Forder,  impressively, 


"  an'  he  said  cussin'  was  common  there.  I 
mean  sober  spitin'  with  a  cuss.  He  seen  one 
o'  them  black  folks  git  a  gredge  against  an- 
other an'  go  an'  set  down  an'  look  stiddy  at 
him  in  his  hut  an'  cuss  him  in  his  mind  an'  set 
there  an'  watch,  watch,  until  the  other  kind  o' 
took  sick  an'  died,  all  in  a  fortnight,  I  believe 
he  said;  't  would  make  your  blood  run  cold 
to  hear  gran'ther  describe 
it,  't  would  so.  He  never 
done  nothin'  but  set  an' 
look,  an'  folks  would  give 
him  somethin'  to  eat  now 
an'  then,  as  if  they  thought 
't  was  all  right,  an'  the  other 
one  'd  try  to  go  an'  come, 
an'  at  last  he  hived  away 
altogether  an'  died.  I  don't 
know  what  you  'd  call  it 
that  ailed  him.  There  's 
suthin'  in  cussin'  that  's  bad 
for  folks,  now  I  tell  ye,  Miss 
Downs." 

"  Hannah's  eyes  always  makes  me 
creepy  now,"  Mrs.  Downs  confessed 
uneasily.  "  They  don't  look  pleadin' 
an'  childish  same    's    they   used  to. 
Seems  to  me  as  if  she  'd  had  the 
worst  on  't." 
"  We  ain't  seen  the  end  on  't  yit,"  said 
Mrs.  Forder,  impressively.  "  I  feel  it  with- 
in me,  Marthy  Downs,  an'  it  's  a  terrible 
thing  to  have  happened  right  amon'st  us 
in  Christian  times.    If  we  live  long  enough 
we  're  goin'  to  have  plenty  to  talk  over  in 
our  old  age  that 's  come  o'  that  cuss.    Some 
seed  's  shy  o'  sproutin'  till  a  spring  when 
the  s'ile  's  jist  right  to  breed  it." 

"  There 's  lobeely  now,"  agreed  Mrs.  Downs, 
pleased  to  descend  to  prosaic  and  familiar  lev- 
els. "  They  ain't  a  good  crop  one  year  in  six, 
and  then  you  find  it  in  a  place  where  you 
never  observed  none  to  grow  afore,  like  's  not ; 
ain't  it  so,  reelly  ?  "  And  she  rose  to  clear  the 
table,  pleased  with  the  certainty  of  a  guest  that 
night.  Their  conversation  was  not  reassuring 
to  the  heart  of  a  timid  woman  alone  in  an 
isolated  farm-house  on  a  dark  spring  evening, 
especially  so  near  the  anniversary  of  old  Cap- 
tain Knowles's  death. 


v. 

Later  in  these  rural  lives  by  many  years 
two  aged  women  were  crossing  a  wide  field 
together,  following  a  foot-path  such  as  one 
often  finds  between  widely  separated  homes 
of  the  New  England  country.  Along  these 
lightly  traced  thoroughfares  the  children  go 
to  play,  and  lovers  to  plead,  and  older  people 
to  companion  one  another  in  work  and  pleas- 


IN  DARK  NEW  ENGLAND  DAYS. 


919 


ure,  in  sickness  and  sorrow ;  generation  after 
generation  comes  and  goes  again  by  these  coun- 
try by-ways. 

The  foot-path  led  from  Mrs.  Forder's  to  an- 
other farm-house  half  a  mile  beyond,  where 
there  had  been  a  wedding.  Mrs.  Downs  was 
there,  and  in  the  June  weather  she  had  been 
easily  persuaded  to  go  home  to  tea  with  Mrs. 
Forder  with  the  promise  of  being  driven  home 
later  in  the  evening.  Mrs.  Downs's  husband 
had  been  dead  three  years,  and  her  friend's 
large  family  was  scattered  from  the  old  nest ; 
they  were  lonely  at  times  in  their  later  years, 
these  old  friends,  and  found  it  very  pleasant 
now  to  have  a  walk  together.  Thin  little  Mrs. 
Forder,  with  all  her  wheezing,  was  the  stronger 
and  more  active  of  the  two ;  Mrs.  Downs  had 
grown  heavier  and  weaker  with  advancing 
years. 

They  paced  along  the  foot-path  slowly,  Mrs. 
Downs  rolling  in  her  gait  like  a  sailor,  and 
availing  herself  of  every  pretext  to  stop  and 
look  at  herbs  in  the  pasture  ground  they 
crossed,  and  at  the  growing  grass  in  the  mow- 
ing fields.  They  discussed  the  wedding  mi- 
nutely, and  then  where  the  way  grew  wider 
they  walked  side  by  side  instead  of  following 
each  other,  and  their  voices  sank  to  the  low 
tone  that  betokens  confidence. 

"  You  don't  say  that  you  really  put  faith  in 
all  them  old  stories  ?  " 

"  It  ain't  accident  altogether,  noways  you 
can  fix  it  in  your  mind,"  maintained  Mrs. 
Downs.  "  Need  n't  tell  me  that  cussin'  don't 
do  neither  good  nor  harm.  I  should  n't  want 
to  marry  amon'st  the  Holts  if  I  was  young 
ag'in !  I  r'member  when  this  young  man  was 
born  that  's  married  to-day,  an'  the  fust  thing 
his  poor  mother  wanted  to  know  was  about 
his  hands  bein'  right.  I  said  yes  they  was,  but 
las'  year  he  was  twenty  year  old  and  come 
home  from  the  frontier  with  one  o'  them  hands 
—  his  right  one  —  shot  off  in  a  fight.  They  say 
't  happened  to  sights  o'  other  fellows,  an'  their 
laigs  gone  too,  but  I  count  'em  over  on  my 
fingers,  them  Holts,  an'  he  's  the  third.  May 
say  that  't  was  all  an  accident  his  mother's 
gittin'  throwed  out  o'  her  waggin  comin'  home 
from  meetin',  an'  her  wrist  not  bein'  set  good, 
an'  she,  bein'  run  down  at  the  time,  'most  lost 
it  altogether,  but  thar'  it  is  stiffened  up  an'  no 
good  to  her.  There  was  the  second.  An' 
Enoch  Holt  hisself  come  home  from  the 
Chiny  seas,  made  a  good  passage  an'  a  sight  o' 
money  in  the  pepper  trade,  jest 's  we  expected, 
an'  goin'  to  build  him  a  new  house,  an'  the 
frame  gives  a  kind  o'  lurch  when  they  was 
raisin'  of  it  an'  surges  over  on  to  him  an'  nips 
him  under.  '  Which  arm  ?  '  says  everybody 
along  the  road  when  they  was  comin'  an'  goin' 
with  the  doctor.    '  Right  one  —  got  to  lose  it,' 


says  the  doctor  to  'em,  an'  next  time  Enoch 
Holt  got  out  to  meetin'  he  stood  up  in  the 
house  o'  God  with  the  hymn-book  in  his  left 
hand,  an'  no  right  hand  to  turn  his  leaf  with. 
He  knowed  what  we  was  all  a-thinkin'." 

"Well,"  said  Mrs.  Forder,  very  short- 
breathed  with  climbing  the  long  slope  of  the 
pasture  hill,  "  I  don't  know  but  I  'd  as  soon  be 
them  as  the  Knowles  gals.  Hannah  never 
knowed  no  peace  again  after  she  spoke  them 
words  in  the  co't-house.  They  come  back  an' 
harnted  her,  an'  you  know,  Miss  Downs,  better 
'n  I  do,  being  door-neighbors  as  one  may  say, 
how  they  lived  their  lives  out  like  wild  beasts 
into  a  lair." 

"  They  used  to  go  out  some  by  night  to  git 
the  air,"  pursued  Mrs.  Downs  with  interest. 


^  r 


OLD     l'APPY     FLANDEKS. 


"  I  used  to  open  the  door  an'  step  right  in, 
an'  I  used  to  take  their  yarn  an'  stuff  'long  o' 
mine  an'  sell  'em,  an'  do  for  the  poor  stray 
creatur's  long  's  they  'd  let  me.  They  'd  be 
grateful  for  a  mess  o'  early  pease  or  potatoes 
as  ever  you  see,  an'  Peter  he  allays  favored 
'em  with  pork,  fresh  an'  salt,  when  we  slaugh- 


920 


THE  EMPTY  HOUR. 


tered.  The  old  Cap'n  kept  'em  child'n  long  as 
he  lived,  an'  then  they  was  too  old  to  l'arn 
different.  I  allays  liked  Hannah  the  best  till 
that  change  struck  her.  Betsey  she  held  out 
to  the  last  jest  about  the  same.  I  don't  know, 
now  I  come  to  think  of  it,  but  what  she  felt 
it  the  most  o'  the  two." 

"  They  'd  never  let  me  s'  much  as  git  a  look 
at  'em,"  complained  Mrs.  Forder.  "  Folks  got 
awful  stories  a-goin'  one  time.  I  've  heard  it 
said,  an'  it  allays  creeped  me  cold  all  over, 
that  there  was  somethin'  come  an'  lived  with 
'em  —  a  kind  o'  black  shadder,  a  cobweb  kind 


ON     THE     HILL. 


o'  a  man-shape  that  followed  'em  about  the 
house  an'  made  a  third  to  them ;  but  they  got 
hardened  to  it  theirselves,  only  they  was  afraid 
't  would  follow  if  they  went  anywheres  from 
home.    You  don't  believe  no  such  a  piece  o' 


nonsense  ?  —  But  there,  I  've  asked  ye  times 
enough  before." 

"  They  'd  got  shadders  enough,  poor  cre- 
tur's,"  said  Mrs.  Downs  with  reserve.  "  Was 
n't  no  kind  o'  need  to  make  'em  up  no  spooks, 
as  I  know  on.  Well,  here  's  these  young  folks 
a-startin' ;  I  wish  'em  well,  I  'm  sure.  She  likes 
him  with  his  one  hand  better  than  most  gals 
likes  them  as  has  a  good  sound  pair.  They 
looked  prime  happy;  I  hope  no  curse  won't 
foller  'em." 

The  friends  stopped  again  —  poor,  short- 
winded  bodies  —  on  the  crest  of  the  low  hill  and 
turned  to  look  at  the  wide 
landscape,  bewildered  by  the 
marvelous  beauty  and  the 
sudden  flood  of  golden  sun- 
set light  that  poured  out  of 
the  western  sky.  They  could 
not  remember  that  they  had 
ever  observed  the  wide  view 
before ;  it  was  like  a  revela- 
tion or  an  outlook  towards  the 
celestial  country,  the  sight  of 
their  own  green  farms  and  the 
country-side  that  bounded 
them.  It  was  a  pleasant 
country  indeed,  their  own 
New  England :  their  petty 
thoughts  and  vain  imagin- 
ings seemed  futile  and  un- 
related to  so  fair  a  scene  of 
things.  But  the  figure  of  a 
man  who  was  crossing  the 
meadow  below  looked  like 
a  malicious  black  insect.  It 
was  an  old  man,  it  was 
Enoch  Holt ;  time  had  worn 
and  bent  him  enough  to 
have  satisfied  his  bitterest  foe.  The  women 
could  see  his  empty  coat-sleeve  flutter  as 
he  walked  slowly  and  unexpectantly  in  that 
glorious  evening  light. 

Sarah  Orne  Jewett. 


THE  EMPTY  HOUR. 

IT  held  for  me  naught  of  power : 
"  Time  lost !  "  was  the  world's  decree ; 
And  yet,  't  is  that  empty  hour 
Has  filled  my  life  for  me. 


Julie  M.  Lippmann. 


WOMAN    IN    AMERICAN    LITERATURE. 


I  am  obnoxious  to  each  carping  tongue 
That  says  my  hand  a  needle  better  fits. 

Men  can  do  best,  and  women  know  it  well  ; 
Preeminence  in  each  and  all  is  yours, 
Yet  grant  some  small  acknowledgment  of  ours. 
— Anne  Bradstreet,  1640. 

Let  us  be  wise,  and  not  impede  the  soul.  Let 
her  work  as  she  will.  Let  us  have  one  creative 
energy,  one  incessant  revelation.  Let  it  take  what 
form  it  will,  and  let  us  not  bind  it  by  the  past  to 
man  or  woman. —  Margaret  Fuller,  1844. 

T  is  difficult  to  disengage 
a  single  thread  from  the 
living  web  of  a  nation's 
literature.  The  interplay 
of  influences  is  such  that 
the  product  spun  from  the 
heart  and  brain  of  woman 
alone  must,  when  thus 
disengaged,  lose  something  of  its  significance. 
In  criticism  a  classification  based  upon  sex  is 
necessarily  misleading  and  inexact.  As  far  as 
difference  between  the  literary  work  of  women 
and  that  of  men  is  created  by  difference  of 
environment  and  training  it  may  be  regarded 
as  accidental ;  while  the  really  essential  differ- 
ence, resulting  from  the  general  law  that  the 
work  of  woman  shall  somehow  subtly  ex- 
press womanhood,  not  only  varies  widely  in 
degree  with  the  individual  worker,  but  is,  in 
certain  lines  of  production,  almost  ungrasp- 
able  by  criticism.  We  cannot  rear  walls  which 
shall  separate  literature  into  departments,  upon 
a  principle  elusive  as  the  air.  "  It  is  no  more 
the  order  of  nature  that  the  especially  femi- 
nine element  should  be  incarnated  pure  in  any 
form,  than  that  the  masculine  energy  should 
exist  unmingled  with  it  in  any  form."  The 
experiment  which,  Lowell  tells  us,  Nature  tried 
in  shaping  the  genius  of  Hawthorne,  she  re- 
peats and  reverses  at  will. 

In  practice  the  evil  effects  which  have  fol- 
lowed the  separate  consideration  of  woman's 
work  in  literature  are  sufficiently  plain.  The 
debasement  of  the  coin  of  criticism  is  a*  fatal 
measure.  The  dearest  foe  of  the  woman  artist 
in  the  past  has  been  the  suave  and  chivalrous 
critic,  who,  judging  all  "  female  writers  "  by  a 
special  standard,  has  easily  bestowed  the  un- 
earned wreath. 

The  present  paper  is  grounded,  it  will  be 
seen,  upon  no  preference  for  the  Shaker-meet- 
ing arrangement  which  prevailed  so  long  in 
Vol.  XL.— 121. 


our  American  temple  of  the  Muses.  It  has 
seemed  desirable,  in  a  historical  review  of  the 
work  of  women  in  this  country,  to  follow  the 
course  of  their  effort  in  the  field  of  literature ; 
to  note  the  occasional  impediments  of  the 
stream,  its  sudden  accessions  of  force,  its  gen- 
eral tendency,  and  its  gradual  widening. 

The  colonial  period  has,  of  course,  little  to 
give  us.  The  professional  literary  woman 
was  then  unknown.  The  verses  of  Mrs.  Anne 
Bradstreet,  called  in  flattery  athe  tenth  Muse," 
were  "  the  fruit  but  of  some  few  hours  cur- 
tailed from  her  sleep  and  other  refreshments." 
The  negro  girl  Phillis  Wheatley,  whose  poet- 
ical efforts  had  been  published  under  aristo- 
cratic patronage  in  England,  when  robbed  of 
her  mistress  by  death  "  resorted  to  marriage  " 
—  not  to  literature  —  "  as  the  only  alternative 
of  destitution."  Mrs.  Mercy  Warren  was. never 
obliged  to  seek  support  from  that  sharp -pointed 
pen  which  copied  so  cleverly  the  satiric  style 
of  Pope,  and  which  has  left  voluminous  records 
of  the  Revolution.  She  too  wrote  her  trage- 
dies "  for  amusement,  in  the  solitary  hours 
when  her  friends  were  abroad." 

Miss  Hannah  Adams,  born  in  Massachu- 
setts in  1755,  may  be  accepted  as  the  first 
American  woman  who  made  literature  her  pro- 
fession. Her  appearance  as  a  pioneer  in  this 
country  corresponds  closely  in  time  with  that 
of  Mary  Wollstonecraft  in  England.  She  wrote, 
at  seventy-seven,  the  story  of  her  life.  Her 
account  sets  forth  clearly  the  difficulties  which 
in  her  youth  had  to  be  dealt  with  by  a  woman 
seriously  undertaking  authorship.  Ill  health, 
which  forbade  her  attending  school,  was  an 
individual  disadvantage ;  but  she  remarks  in- 
cidentally on  the  defectiveness  of  the  country 
school,  where  girls  learned  only  to  write  and 
cipher,  and  were  in  summer  "  instructed  by 
females  in  reading,  sewing,  and  other  kinds  of 
work.  ...  I  remember  that  my  first  idea 
of  the  happiness  of  heaven  was  of  a  place 
where  we  should  find  our  thirst  for  knowledge 
fully  gratified."  How  pathetically  the  old 
woman  recalls  the  longing  of  the  eager  girl! 
All  her  life  she  labored  against  odds ;  learning, 
however,  the  rudiments  of  Latin,  Greek, 
geography,  and  logic,  "  with  indescribable 
pleasure  and  avidity,"  from  some  gentlemen 
boarding  at  her  father's  house.  Becoming  in- 
terested in  religious  controversy,  she  formed 
the  plan  of  compiling  a  "  View  of  Religions  " ; 
not  at  first  hoping  to  derive  what  she  calls 
"  emolument  "  from  the  work.    To  win  bread 


922 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  LITERATURE. 


she  relied  at  this  time  upon  spinning,  sewing, 
or  knitting,  and,  during  the  Revolutionary  war, 
on  the  weaving  of  bobbin  lace ;  afterwards  fall- 
ing back  on  her  scant  classical  resources  to 
teach  young  gentlemen  Latin  and  Greek. 
Meanwhile  the  compilation  went  on.  "  Read- 
ing much  religious  controversy,"  observes  Miss 
Adams,  "  must  be  extremely  trying  to  a  female, 
whose  mind,  instead  of  being  strengthened  by 
those  studies  which  exercise  the  judgment  and 
give  stability  to  the  character,  is  debilitated 
by  reading  romances  and  novels."  This  sense 
of  disadvantage,  of  the  meekly  accepted  bur- 
den of  sex,  pervades  the  autobiography ;  it 
seems  "the  story  of  a  patient  cripple.  When  tlie 
long  task  was  done  her  inexperience  made  her 
the  dupe  of  a  dishonest  printer;  and,  although 
the  book  sold  well,  her  only  compensation  was 
fifty  copies,  for  which  she  was  obliged  herself 
to  find  purchasers,  having  previously  procured 
four  hundred  subscribers.  Fortunately  she  had 
the  copyright;  and  before  the  publication  of 
a  second  edition  she  chanced  to  make  the  ac- 
quaintance of  a  clerical  good  Samaritan,  who 
transacted  the  business  for  her.  The  "  emolu- 
ment "  derived  from  this  second  edition  at  last 
enabled  her  to  pay  her  debts,  and  to  put  out 
a  small  sum  upon  interest.  Her  "  History  of 
New  England,"  in  the  preparation  of  which 
her  eyesight  was  nearly  sacrificed,  met  with  a 
good  sale ;  but  an  abridgment  of  it  brought 
her  nothing,  on  account  of  the  failure  of  the 
printer.  She  sold  the  copyright  of  her  "  Evi- 
dences of  Christianity  "  for  one  hundred  dol- 
lars in  books. 

This,  then,  is  our  starting-point  —  evident 
character  and  ability,  at  a  disadvantage  both  in 
production  and  in  the  disposal  of  the  product ; 
imperfect  educational  equipment ;  and  a  hope- 
less consciousness  of  inferiority,  amounting  al- 
most to  an  inability  to  stand  upright  mentally. 

Susanna  Rowson,  who  wrote  the  popular 
"  Charlotte  Temple,"  may  be  classed  as  an 
American  novelist,  though  not  born  in  this 
country.  She  appears  also  as  a  writer  of  patri- 
otic songs,  an  actress,  a  teacher,  and  the  com- 
piler of  a  dictionary  and  other  school-books. 
"  The  Coquette ;  or,  the  History  of  Eliza  Whar- 
ton," by  Hannah  Webster  Foster,  was  an- 
other prime  favorite  among  the  formal  novels 
of  the  day. 

Kind  Miss  Hannah  Adams,  in  her  old  age, 
chanced  to  praise  a  certain  metrical  effort,  un- 
promisingly  labeled  "  Jephthah's  Rash  Vow," 
put  forth  by  a  girl  of  sixteen,  Miss  Caroline 
Howard.  Here  occurs  an  indicative  touch. 
"  When  I  learned,"  says  this  commended  Miss 
Caroline,  "  that  my  verses  had  been  surrepti- 
tiously printed  in  a  newspaper,  I  wept  bitterly, 
and  was  as  alarmed  as  if  I  had  been  detected 
in  man's  apparel."    Such  was  the  feeling  with 


which  the  singing-robes  were  donned  by  a 
maiden  in  1810  —  a  state  of  affairs  soon  to  be 
replaced  by  a  general  fashion  of  feminine  sing- 
ing-robes of  rather  cheap  material.  During 
the  second  quarter  of  the  present  century  con- 
ditions somewhat  improved,  and  production 
greatly  increased.  "  There  was  a  wide  manifes- 
tation of  that  which  bears  to  pure  ideality  an 
inferior  relationship,"  writes  Mr.  Stedman  of 
the  general  body  of  our  literature  at  this  pe- 
riod. In  1 848  Dr.  Griswold  reports  that "  women 
among  us  are  taking  a  leading  part";  that 
"  the  proportion  of  female  writers  at  this  mo- 
ment in  America  far  exceeds  that  which  the 
present  or  any  other  age  in  England  exhibits." 
Awful  moment  in  America !  one  is  led  to  exclaim 
by  a  survey  of  the  poetic  field.  Alas,  the  verse 
of  those  "  Tokens,"  and  "  Keepsakes,"  and 
"  Forget-Me-Nots,"  and  "  Magnolias,"  and 
all  the  rest  of  the  annuals,  all  glorious  without 
in  their  red  or  white  Turkey  morocco  and 
gilding !  Alas,  the  flocks  of  quasi  swan-singers  ! 
They  have  sailed  away  down  the  river  of  Time, 
chanting  with  a  monotonous  mournfulness. 
We  need  not  speak  of  them  at  length.  One 
of  them  early  wrote  about  the  Genius  of  Ob- 
livion; most  of  them  wrote  for  it.  It  was  not 
their  fault  that  their  toil  increased  the  sum  of 
the  "  Literature  suited  to  Desolate  Islands." 
The  time  was  out  of  joint.  Sentimentalism  in- 
fected both  continents.  It  was  natural  enough 
that  the  infection  should  seize  most  strongly 
upon  those  who  were  weakened  by  an  intel- 
lectual best-parlor  atmosphere,  with  small 
chance  of  free  out-of-door  currents.  They  had 
their  reward.  Their  crude  constituencies  were 
proud  of  them;  and  not  all  wrought  without 
"  emolument,"  though  it  need  hardly  be  said 
that  verse- making  was  not  and  is  not,  as  a  rule, 
a  remunerative  occupation.  Some  names  sur- 
vive, held  in  the  memory  of  the  public  by  a 
few  small,  sweet  songs  on  simple  themes,  prob- 
ably undervalued  by  their  authors,  but  float- 
ing now  like  flowers  above  the  tide  that  has 
swallowed  so  many  pretentious,  sand-based 
structures. 

Mrs.  Lydia  H.  Sigourney,  the  most  prolific 
poetess  of  the  period,  was  hailed  as  "  the  Amer- 
ican Mrs.  Hemans."  A  gentle  and  pious 
womanhood  shone  through  her  verse ;  but  her 
books  are  undisturbed  and  dusty  in  the  libra- 
ries now,  and  likely  to  remain  so.  Maria 
Gowen  Brooks  —  "Maria  del  Occidente  "  — 
was,  on  the  other  hand,  not  popular  at  home ; 
but  put  forth  a  far  stronger  claim  than  Mrs. 
Sigourney,  and  won  indeed  somewhat  dis- 
proportionate praises  abroad.  "  Southey  says 
'  Zophiel ;  or,  The  Bride  of  Seven,'  is  by  some 
Yankee  woman,"  writes  Charles  Lamb ;  "  as 
if  there  had  ever  been  a  woman  capable  of 
anything  so  great !  "   One  is  glad  that  we  need 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  LITERATURE. 


923 


not  now  consider  as  the  acme  of  woman's  poetic 
achievement  this  metrical  narrative  of  the  loves 
of  the  angels;  nevertheless,  it  is  on  the  whole 
a  remarkably  sustained  work,  with  a  gorgeous- 
ness  of  coloring  which  might  perhaps  be  traced 
to  its  author's  Celtic  strain. 

As  Mrs.  Samuel  Gilman,  Caroline  Howard, 
of  whom  we  have  already  spoken,  carried  the 
New  England  spirit  into  a  Southern  home,  and 
there  wrote  not  only  verses,  but  sketches  and 
tales,  much  in  the  manner  of  her  sisters  who 
never  left  the  Puritan  nest,  though  dealing  at 
times  with  material  strange  to  them,  as  in  her 
"  Recollections  of  a  Southern  Matron."  With 
the  women  of  New  England  lies  our  chief  con- 
cern, until  a  date  comparatively  recent.  A 
strong,  thinking,  working  race  —  all  know  the 
type ;  granite  rock,  out  of  its  crevices  the  unex- 
pected harebells  trembling  here  and  there.  As 
writers  they  have  a  general  resemblance ;  in  one 
case  a  little  more  mica  and  glitter,  in  another 
more  harebells  than  usual.  Mrs.  Sigourney, 
for  instance,  presents  an  azure  predominance 
of  the  flowery,  on  a  basis  of  the  practical. 
Think  of  her  fifty-seven  volumes  —  copious 
verse,  religious  and  sentimental ;  sketches  of 
travel ;  didactic  "  Letters  to  Mothers,"  "  Let- 
ters to  Young  Ladies  ";  the  charmingly  garru- 
lous "  Letters  of  Life,"  published  after  her 
death.  Quantity,  dilution,  diffusiveness,  the 
dispersion  of  energy  in  a  variety  of  aims  — 
these  were  the  order  of  the  day.  Lydia  Maria 
Child  wrote  more  than  thirty-five  books  and 
pamphlets,  beginning  with  the  apotheosis  of 
the  aboriginal  American  in  romance,  ending 
in  the  good  fight  with  slavery,  and  taking  in 
by  the  way  domestic  economy,  the  progress 
of  religious  ideas,  and  the  Athens  of  Pericles, 
somewhat  romanticized.  Firm  granite  here, 
not  without  ferns  of  tenderest  grace.  It  is  very 
curious  and  impressive,  the  self-reliant  dignity 
with  which  these  noble  matrons  circumambu- 
late the  whole  field  of  literature  with  errant  feet, 
but  with  a  character  central  and  composed. 
They  are  "  something  better  than  their  verse," 
and  also  than  their  prose.  Why  was  it  that  the 
dispersive  tendency  of  the  time  showed  itself 
especially  in  the  literary  effort  of  women  ?  Per- 
haps the  scattering,  haphazard  kind  of  educa- 
tion then  commonly  bestowed  upon  girls  helped 
to  bring  about  such  a  condition  of  things.  Effi- 
cient work,  in  literature  as  in  other  professions, 
is  dependent  in  a  degree  upon  preparation;  not 
indeed  upon  the  actual  amount  of  knowledge 
possessed,  but  upon  the  training  of  the  mind 
to  sure  action,  and  the  vitality  of  the  spark  of 
intellectual  life  communicated  in  early  days. 
To  the  desultory  and  aimless  education  of 
girls  at  this  period,  and  their  continual  servi- 
tude to  the  sampler,  all  will  testify.  "  My 
education,"  says  Mrs.  Gilman,  "  was  exceed- 


ingly irregular,  a  perpetual  passing  from  school 
to  school.  I  drew  a  very  little  and  worked 
'  The  Babes  in  the  Wood '  on  white  satin,  with 
floss  silk."  By  and  by,  however,  she  "was  ini- 
tiated into  Latin,"  studied  Watts's  "  Logic  " 
by  herself,  and  joined  a  private  class  in  French. 
Lydia  Huntley  (Mrs.  Sigourney)  fared  some- 
what better,  pursuing  mathematics,  though 
she  admits  that  too  little  time  was  accorded 
to  the  subject,  and  being  instructed  in  "  the 
belles-lettres  studies "  by  competent  teachers. 
Her  school  education  ceased  at  thirteen  ;  she 
afterwards  worked  alone  over  history  and  men- 
tal philosophy,  had  tutors  in  Latin  and  French, 
and  even  dipped  into  Hebrew,  under  clerical 
guidance.  This  has  a  deceptively  advanced 
sound ;  we  are  to  learn  presently  that  she  was 
sent  away  to  boarding-school,  where  she  ap- 
plied herself  to  "  embroidery  of  historical 
scenes,  filigree,  and  other  finger-works."  (May 
we  not  find  a  connection  between  this  kind  of 
training  and  the  production  of  dramatic  char- 
acters as  lifelike  as  those  figures  in  floss  silk  ? 
Was  it  not  a  natural  result,  that  corresponding 
"  embroidery  of  historical  scenes  "  performed 
by  the  feminine  pen  ? )  Lydia  Maria  Francis 
(Mrs.  Child),  "  apart  from  her  brother's  com- 
panionship, had,  as  usual,  a  very  unequal  share 
of  educational  opportunities ;  attending  only 
the  public  schools," — the  public  schools  of 
the  century  in  its  teens, —  "  with  one  year  at 
a  private  seminary."  Catherine  Sedgwick, 
"reared  in  an  atmosphere  of  high  intelligence," 
still  confesses,  "  I  have  all  my  life  felt  the  want 
of  more  systematic  training." 

Another  cause  of  the  scattering,  unmethodi- 
cal supply  may  have  been  the  vagueness  of  the 
demand.  America  was  not  quite  sure  what  it 
was  proper  to  expect  of  the  "  female  writer  "  ; 
and  perhaps  that  lady  herself  had  a  lingering 
feudal  idea  that  she  could  hold  literary  terri- 
tory only  on  condition  of  stout  pen  service  in 
the  cause  of  the  domestic  virtues  and  pudding. 
"  In  those  days,"  says  Thomas  Wentworth 
Higginson,  "  it  seemed  to  be  held  necessary 
for  American  women  to  work  their  passage 
into  literature  by  first  compiling  a  cookery 
book."  Thus  we  have  Mrs.  Child's  "  Frugal 
Housewife  " ;  and  we  find  clever  Eliza  Leslie, 
of  Philadelphia,  putting  forth  "  Seventy-five 
Receipts  "  before  she  ventures  upon  her  hu- 
morous and  satirical  "  Pencil  Sketches."  The 
culinary  tradition  was  carried  on,  somewhat 
later,  by  Catherine  Beecher,  with  her  "  Do- 
mestic Receipt  Book  " ;  and  we  have  indeed 
most  modern  instances  in  the  excellent  "  Com- 
mon-sense Series  "  of  the  novelist  "  Marion 
Harland,"  and  in  Mrs.  Whitney's  "  Just  How." 
Perhaps,  however,  it  is  not  fancy  that  these 
wear  the  kitchen  apron  with  a  difference. 

In  addition  to  lack  of  training,  and  to  the 


924 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  IITERATURE. 


vague  nature  of  the  public  demand,  a  third 
cause  operated  against  symmetrical  artistic  de- 
velopment among  the  women  of  those  electric 
days  preceding  the  civil  war.  That  struggle 
between  the  art  instinct  and  the  desire  for  re- 
form, which  is  not  likely  to  cease  entirely  un- 
til the  coming  of  the  golden  year,  was  then  at 
its  height.  Both  men  and  women  were  drawn 
into  the  maelstrom  of  the  antislavery  conflict ; 
yet  to  a  few  men  the  artist's  single  aim  seemed 
still  possible — to  Longfellow,  to  Hawthorne. 
Similar  examples  are  lacking  among  contem- 
porary women.  Essential  womanhood,  "  das 
Ewigweibliche"  seems  at  this  point  unusually 
clear  in  the  work  of  women ;  the  passion  for 
conduct,  the  enthusiasm  for  abstract  justice, 
not  less  than  the  potential  motherhood  that 
yearns  over  all  suffering.  The  strong  Hebraic 
element  in  the  spiritual  life  of  New  England 
women  in  particular  tended  to  withdraw  them 
from  the  service  of  pure  art  at  this  period. 
"  My  natural  inclinations,"  wrote  Lydia  Maria 
Child,  "  drew  me  much  more  strongly  towards 
literature  and  the  arts  than  towards  reform,  and 
the  weight  of  conscience  was  needed  to  turn 
the  scale." 

Mrs.  Child  and  Miss  Sedgwick,  chosen  fa- 
vorites of  the  public,  stand  forth  as  typical 
figures.  Both  have  the  art  instinct,  both  the 
desire  for  reform :  in  Mrs.  Child  the  latter  de- 
cidedly triumphs,  in  spite  of  her  romances ;  in 
Miss  Sedgwick  the  former,  though  less  decid- 
edly, in  spite  of  her  incidental  preachments. 
She  wrote  "  without  any  purpose  or  hope  to 
slay  giants,"  aiming  merely  "  to  supply  medi- 
ocre readers  with  small  moral  hints  on  various 
subjects  that  come  up  in  daily  life."  It  is  in- 
teresting to  note  just  what  public  favor  meant 
materially  to  the  most  popular  women  writers 
of  those  days.  Miss  Sedgwick,  at  a  time  when 
she  had  reached  high-water  mark,  wrote  in 
reply  to  one  who  expected  her  to  acquire  a 
fortune,  that  she  found  it  impossible  to  make 
much  out  of  novel-writing  while  cheap  editions 
of  English  novels  filled  the  market.  "  I  may 
go  on,"  she  says,  "  earning  a  few  hundred  dol- 
lars a  year,  and  precious  few  too."  One  could 
not  even  earn  the  "  precious  few  "  without  ob- 
serving certain  laws  of  silence.  The  "  Appeal 
in  Behalf  of  that  Class  of  Americans  called 
Africans  "  seriously  lessened  the  income  of  Mrs. 
Child.  That  dubious  America  of  1833  was 
decided  on  one  point — this  was  not  what  she 
expected  of  the  "  female  writer."  She  was  will- 
ing to  be  instructed  by  a  woman  —  about  the 
polishing  of  furniture  and  the  education  of 
daughters. 

And  now  there  arises  before  us  another  fig- 
ure, of  striking  singularity  and  power.  Mar- 
garet Fuller  never  appeared  as  a  candidate 
for  popular  favor.    On  the  polishing  of  fur- 


niture she  was  absolutely  silent;  nor,  though 
she  professed  "  high  respect  for  those  who 
'  cook  something  good,'  arfd  create  and  pre- 
serve fair  order  in  houses,"  did  she  ever  fulfil 
the  understood  duty  of  woman  by  publishing 
a  cookery  book.  On  the  education  of  daugh- 
ters she  had,  however,  a  vital  word  to  say ; 
demanding  for  them  "a  far  wider  and  more 
generous  culture."  Her  own  education  had 
been  of  an  exceptional  character;  she  was 
fortunate  in  its  depth  and  solidity,  though  un- 
fortunate in  the  forcing  process  that  had  made 
her  a  hard  student  at  six  years  old.  Her  equip- 
ment was  superior  to  that  of  any  American 
woman  who  had  previously  entered  the  field 
of  literature ;  and  hers  was  a  powerful  genius, 
but,  by  the  irony  of  fate,  a  genius  not  prompt 
to  clothe  itself  in  the  written  word.  As  to  the 
inspiration  of  her  speech  all  seem  to  agree ; 
but  one  who  knew  her  well  has  spoken  of  the 
"  singular  embarrassment  and  hesitation  in- 
duced by  the  attempt  to  commit  her  thoughts 
to  paper."  The  reader  of  the  sibylline  leaves 
she  scattered  about  her  in  her  strange  career 
receives  the  constant  impression  of  hampered 
power,  of  force  that  has  never  found  its  proper 
outlet.  In  "  Woman  in  the  Nineteenth  Cen- 
tury "  there  is  certainly  something  of  that 
"  shoreless  Asiatic  dreaminess  "  complained 
of  by  Carlyle ;  but  there  are  also  to  be  found 
rich  words,  fit,  like  those  of  Emerson,  for  "  gold 
nails  in  temples  to  hang  trophies  on."  The 
critical  Scotchman  himself  subsequently  owned 
that  "  some  of  her  Papers  are  the  undeniable 
utterances  of  a  true  heroic  mind ;  altogether 
unique,  so  far  as  I  know,  among  the  Writing 
Women  of  this  generation ;  rare  enough,  too, 
God  knows,  among  the  Writing  Men."  She 
accomplished  comparatively  little  that  can  be 
shown  or  reckoned.  Her  mission  was  "  to  free, 
arouse,  dilate."  Those  who  immediately  re- 
sponded were  few ;  and  as  the  circle  of  her  in- 
fluence has  widened  through  their  lives  the 
source  of  the  original  impulse  has  been  unnamed 
and  forgotten.  But  if  we  are  disposed  to  rank 
a  fragmentary  greatness  above  a  narrow  per- 
fection, to  value  loftiness  of  aim  more  than  the 
complete  attainment  of  an  inferior  object,  we 
must  set  Margaret  Fuller,  despite  all  errors  of 
judgment,  all  faults  of  style,  very  high  among 
the  "  Writing  Women  "  of  America.  It  is  time 
that,  ceasing  to  discuss  her  personal  traits,  we 
dwell  only  upon  the  permanent  and  essential 
in  her  whose  mind  was  fixed  upon  the  perma- 
nent, the  essential.  Her  place  in  our  literature 
is  her  own ;  it  has  not  been  filled,  nor  does  it 
seem  likely  to  be.  The  particular  kind  of  force 
which  she  exhibited — in  so  far  as  it  was  not 
individual  —  stands  a  chance  in  our  own  day 
of  being  drawn  into  the  educational  field,  now 
that  the  "  wider  and  more  generous  culture  " 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  IITERATURE. 


925 


which  she  claimed  has  been  accorded  to 
women. 

We  may  trace  from  the  early  publications  of 
Lydia  Maria  Francis  and  Catherine  Sedgwick 
the  special  line  along  which  women  have 
worked  most  successfully.  It  is  in  fiction  that 
they  have  wrought  with  the  greatest  vigor  and 
freedom,  and  in  that  important  class  of  fiction 
which  reflects  faithfully  the  national  life,  broadly 
or  in  sectional  phases.  In  182 1  Miss  Francis, 
a  girl  of  nineteen,  wrote  "Hobomok,"  a  rather 
crude  novel  of  colonial  Massachusetts,  with  an 
Indian  hero.  Those  were  the  times  of  the 
pseudo-American  school,  the  heyday  of  what 
Mr.  Stedman  has  called  "the  supposititious 
Indian."  To  the  sanguine  "Hobomok" 
seemed  to  foreshadow  a  feminine  Cooper,  and 
its  author  put  forth  in  the  following  year  "  The 
Rebels,"  a  novel  of  Boston  before  the  Revo- 
lution. A  more  effective  worker  on  this  line, 
however,  was  Miss  Sedgwick,  whose  "  New 
England  Tale"  —  a  simple  little  story,  origi- 
nally intended  as  a  tract  —  was  published  in 
1822,  and  at  once  drew  attention,  in  spite  of 
a  certain  thinness,  by  its  recognizable  home 
flavor.  The  plain  presentation  of  New  Eng- 
land life  in  "  Redwood,"  her  succeeding  book, 
interests  and  convinces  the  reader  of  to-day. 
Some  worthless  elements  of  plot,  now  out  of 
date,  are  introduced;  but  age  cannot  wither 
nor  custom  stale  the  fresh  reality  of  the  most 
memorable  figure  —  that  manly  soul  Miss  Deb- 
orah, a  character  as  distinct  as  Scott  himself 
could  have  made  her.  "  Hope  Leslie,"  "  Clar- 
ence," and  "  The  Linwoods  "  followed ;  then 
the  briefer  tales  supplying  "  small  moral  hints," 
such  as  the  "  Poor  Rich  Man  and  Rich  Poor 
Man."  All  are  genuine,  wholesome,  deserving 
of  the  hearty  welcome  they  received.  "  Wise, 
clear,  and  kindly,"  one  must  echo  the  verdict 
of  Margaret  Fuller  on  our  gentle  pioneer  in 
native  fiction ;  we  may  look  back  with  pride 
on  her  "  speech  moderate  and  sane,  but  never 
palsied  by  fear  or  skeptical  caution  "  ;  on  her- 
self, "  a  fine  example  of  the  independent  and 
beneficent  existence  that  intellect  and  char- 
acter can  give  to  women."  The  least  studied 
among  her  pathetic  scenes  are  admirable ;  and 
she  displays  some  healthy  humor,  though  not 
as  much  as  her  charming  letters  indicate  that 
she  possessed.  A  recent  writer  has  ranked  her 
work  in  one  respect  above  that  of  Cooper,  pro- 
nouncing it  more  truly  calculated  to  effect  "  the 
emancipation  of  the  American  mind  from  for- 
eign types." 

Miss  Sedgwick,  past  threescore,  was  still  in 
the  literary  harness  when  the  woman  who  was 
destined  to  bring  the  novel  of  New  England 
to  a  fuller  development  reached  fame  at  a 
bound  with  "  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin."  At  last 
the  artist's  instinct  and  the  purpose  of  the  re- 


former were  fused,  as  far  as  they  are  capable 
of  fusion,  in  a  story  that  still  holds  its  reader, 
whether  passive  or  protesting,  with  the  grip 
of  the  master-hand.  The  inborn  powers  of  Mrs. 
Stowe  were  fortunately  developed  in  a  home 
atmosphere  that  supplied  deficiencies  in  train- 
ing. Fate  was  kind  in  providing  occasional 
stimulants  for  the  feminine  mind,  though  an 
adequate  and  regular  supply  was  customarily 
withheld.  Miss  Sedgwick  attributes  an  espe- 
cial quickening  force  to  the  valuable  selections 
read  aloud  by  her  father  to  his  family ;  Miss 
Francis,  as  we  have  seen,  owed  much  to  the 
conversation  of  her  brother.  To  Harriet 
Beecher  was  granted,  outside  her  inspiring 
home  circle,  an  extra  stimulus  in  the  early  in- 
fluence of  the  enthusiastic  teacher  whose  por- 
trait she  has  given  us  in  the  Jonathan  Rossiter 
of  "  Oldtown  Folks."  A  close  knowledge  of 
Scott's  novels  from  her  girlhood  had  its  effect 
in  shaping  her  methods  of  narration.  She  knew 
her  Bible  —  perpetual  fountain  feeding  the  no- 
blest streams  of  English  literature  —  as  Rus- 
kin  knew  his.  Residence  for  years  near  the 
Ohio  border  had  familiarized  her  with  some 
of  the  darkest  aspects  of  slavery ;  so  that  when 
the  passage  of  the  Fugitive  Slave  Law  roused 
her  to  the  task  of  exhibiting  the  system  in  op- 
eration, she  was  as  fully  prepared  to  execute 
that  task  as  a  woman  of  New  England  birth 
and  traditions  well  could  be.  Since  the  war 
Southern  writers,  producing  with  the  ease  of 
intimacy  works  steeped  in  the  spirit  of  the 
South,  have  taught  us  much  concerning  negro 
character  and  manners,  and  have  accustomed 
us  to  an  accurate  reproduction  of  dialect.  The 
sublimity  of  Uncle  Tom  has  been  tried  by  the 
reality  of  the  not  less  lovable  Uncle  Remus. 
But  whatever  blemishes  or  extravagances  may 
appear  to  a  critical  eye  in  the  great  antislavery 
novel,  it  still  beats  with  that  intense  life  which 
nearly  forty  years  ago  awoke  a  deep  respon- 
sive thrill  in  the  repressed  heart  of  the  North. 
We  are  at  present  chiefly  concerned  with  its 
immense  practical  success.  It  was  a  "  shot 
heard  round  the  world."  Ten  thousand  cop- 
ies were  sold  in  a  few  days ;  over  three  hun- 
dred thousand  in  a  year ;  eight  power  presses 
were  kept  running  day  and  night  to  supply 
the  continual  demand.  The  British  Museum 
now  contains  thirty-five  complete  editions  in 
English,  and  translations  exist  in  at  least 
twenty  different  languages.  "  Never  did  any 
American  work  have  such  success,"  exclaims 
Mrs.  Child,  in  one  of  her  enthusiastic  letters. 
"  It  has  done  much  to  command  respect  for 
the  faculties  of  woman."  The  influences  are, 
indeed,  broad  and  general  which  have  since 
that  day  removed  all  restrictions  tending  to 
impress  inferiority  on  the  woman  writer,  so  that 
the  distinction  of  sex  is  lost  in  the  distinction 


926 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  LITERATURE. 


of  schools.  Yet  a  special  influence  may  be  at- 
tributed to  this  single  marked  manifestation  of 
force,  to  this  imposing  popular  triumph.  In 
the  face  of  the  fact  that  the  one  American 
book  which  had  stormed  Europe  was  the  work 
of  a  woman,  the  old  tone  of  patronage  became 
ridiculous,  the  old  sense  of  ordained  and  inev- 
itable weakness  on  the  part  of  the  "  female 
writer  "  became  obsolete.  Women  henceforth, 
whatever  their  personal  feelings  in  regard  to 
the  much-discussed  book,  were  enabled,  con- 
sciously or  unconsciously,  to  hold  the  pen  more 
firmly,  to  move  it  more  freely.  In  New  Eng- 
land fiction  what  a  leap  from  the  work  of  Miss 
Sedgwick,  worthy  as  it  is,  to  that  of  Mrs. 
Stowe  !  The  field  whence  a  few  hardy  growths 
were  peeping  seems  to  have  been  overflowed 
by  a  fertilizing  river,  so  rich  is  its  new  yield. 
It  is  "  the  soul  of  Down  East "  that  we  find  in 
"  The  Minister's  Wooing "  and  "  Oldtown 
Folks."  Things  spiritual  are  grasped  with  the 
insight  of  kinship,  externals  are  drawn  with 
the  certainty  of  lifelong  acquaintance.  If  we 
glance  at  the  humorous  side  of  the  picture, 
surely  no  hand  that  ever  wrought  could  have 
bettered  one  smile-provoking  line  in  the  fa- 
miliar figure  of  Sam  Lawson,  the  village  do- 
nothing.  There  is  a  free-handedness  in  the 
treatment  of  this  character  not  often  found  in 
more  recent  conscientious  studies  of  local  types ; 
it  is  as  a  painting  beside  photographs.  A  cer- 
tain inequality,  it  may  be  admitted,  appears  in 
the  range  of  Mrs.  Stowe's  productions.  They 
form  links,  more  or  less  shining,  between  a 
time  of  confused  and  groping  effort  on  the  part 
of  women  and  a  time  of  definitely  directed 
aims,  of  a  concentration  that  has,  inevitably, 
its  own  drawbacks. 

The  encouragement  of  the  great  maga- 
zines, from  the  first  friendly  to  women  writers, 
is  an  important  factor  in  their  development. 
"Harper's"  dates  from  1850;  "The  Atlantic 
Monthly,"  in  1857,  opened  a  new  outlet  for 
literary  work  of  a  high  grade.  Here  appeared 
many  of  the  short  stories  of  Rose  Terry,  de- 
picting the  life  of  New  England ;  unsurpass- 
able in  their  fidelity  to  nature,  their  spontaneous 
flow,  their  grim  humor,  pathos,  tragedy.  In  the 
pages  of  "  The  Atlantic,"  too,  suddenly  flashed 
into  sight  the  brilliant  exotics  of  Harriet  Pres- 
cott,  who  holds  among  American  women  a 
position  as  singular  as  that  of  Poe  among  men. 
Her  characters  have  their  being  in  some  re- 
mote, gorgeous  sunset-land ;  we  feel  that  the 
Boston  Common  of  "  Azarian  "  is  based  upon 
a  cloud  rather  than  solid  Yankee  earth,  and 
the  author  can  scarce  pluck  a  May  flower  but 
it  turns  at  her  touch  to  something  rich  and 
strange.  Native  flavor  there  is  in  some  of  her 
shorter  stories,  such  as  "  The  South  Breaker  " 
and  "Knitting    Sale-Socks";    but  a  sudden 


waft  of  foreign  spices  is  sure  to  mingle  with 
the  sea- wind  or  the  inland  lilac-scents.  "  The 
Amber  Gods  "  and  "The  Thief  in  the  Night  " 
skillfully  involve  the  reader  in  a  dazzling  web 
of  deceptive  strength. 

In  "  Temple  House,"  "  Two  Men,"  and 
"  The  Morgesons,"  the  peculiarly  powerful 
works  of  Mrs.  Stoddard,  the  central  figures  do 
not  seem  necessarily  of  any  particular  time  or 
country.  Their  local  habitation,  however,  is 
impressively  painted ;  with  a  few  swift,  vigor- 
ous strokes  the  old  coast  towns  spring  up  be- 
fore us  ;  the  very  savor  of  the  air  is  imparted. 
Minor  characters  strongly  smack  of  the  soil ; 
old  Cuth,  in  "  Two  Men,"  dying  "  silently  and 
firmly,  like  a  wolf"  ;  Elsa,  in  the  same  book. 
There  are  scenes  of  a  superb  fierce  power  — 
that  of  the  wreck  in  "  Temple  House,"  for 
instance.  The  curt  and  repressed  style,  the 
ironic  humor  of  Mrs.  Stoddard,  serve  to  grap- 
ple her  work  to  the  memory  as  with  hooks  of 
steel ;  it  is  as  remote  as  possible  from  the  con- 
ventional notion  of  woman's  writing. 
•  The  old  conflict  between  the  reformer's 
passion  and  the  art  instinct  is  renewed  in  the 
novels  and  stories  of  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps, 
who  possesses  the  artist's  responsiveness  in  a 
high  degree,  with  but  little  of  the  artist's  re- 
straint. Exquisitely  sensitive  to  the  significant 
beauty  of  the  world,  she  is  no  less  sensitive  to 
the  appeal  of  human  pain.  In  "  Hedged  In  " 
and  "  The  Silent  Partner,"  in  her  stories  of  the 
squalid  tenement  and  the  storm-beaten  coast, 
her  literary  work  reflects,  point  for  point,  her 
personal  work  for  the  fallen,  the  toiling,  and 
the  tempted.  Her  passionate  sympathy  gives 
her  a  power  of  thrilling,  of  commanding  the 
tribute  of  tears,  which  is  all  her  own.  An  en- 
thusiast for  womanhood,  she  has  given  us  in 
"  The  Story  of  Avis  "  and  "  Dr.  Zay  "  striking 
studies  of  complementary  themes ;  "  Avis," 
despite  certain  flaws  of  style  to  which  objection 
is  trite,  remaining  the  greater,^is  it  is  the  sadder, 
book.  All  Miss  Phelps's  stories  strike  root  into 
New  England,  though  it  is  not  precisely  Mrs. 
Cooke's  New  England  of  iron  farmers  and 
stony  farms ;  and  none  strikes  deeper  root  than 
"  Avis,"  a  natural  product  of  the  intellectual 
region  whence  "  Woman  in  the  Nineteenth 
Century "  sprang  thirty  years  before.  No 
other  woman,  among  writers  who  have  arisen 
since  the  war,  has  received  in  such  fullness  the 
spiritual  inheritance  of  New  England's  past. 

The  changes  brought  about  by  the  influx  of 
foreigners  into  the  factory  towns  of  the  East 
are  reflected  in  the  pages  of  Miss  Phelps,  par- 
ticularly in  "  The  Silent  Partner."  A  recent 
worker  of  the  same  vein  is  Lillie  Chace  Wy- 
man,  whose  short  stories,  collected  under  the 
symbolic  title  "  Poverty  Grass,"  are  marked 
by  sincerity  and  simple  power.    Sarah  Orne 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  IITERATURE. 


927 


Jewett  roams  the  old  pastures,  gathering  many 
pungent  handfuls  of  the  familiar  flowers  and 
herbs  that  retain  for  us  their  homely  precious- 
ness.  She  is  attracted  also  by  the  life  of  the  coast. 
Without  vigorous  movement,  her  sketches  and 
stories  have  always  an  individual,  delicate  pic- 
turesqueness,  the  quality  of  a  small,  clear  water- 
color.  "  A  Country  Doctor  "  is  to  be  noted  for 
its  very  quiet  and  true  presentation  of  a  sym- 
metrical womanhood,  naturally  drawn  towards 
the  large  helpfulness  of  professional  life. 

A  novel  which  has  lately  aroused  much  dis- 
cussion, the  "  John  Ward,  Preacher,"  of  Mar- 
garet Deland,  is,  although  its  scene  is  laid  in 
Pennsylvania,  a  legitimate  growth  of  New  Eng- 
land in  its  problem  and  its  central  character. 
The  orthodox  idea  of  eternal  future  punish- 
ment receives  a  treatment  somewhat  similar 
to  that  applied  by  Miss  Phelps  in  "  The  Gates 
Ajar  "  to  the  conventional  heaven.  The  hero 
seems  a  revisitant  Thomas  Shepard,  or  other 
stern  yet  tender  Puritan  of  the  past,  miracu- 
lously set  down  in  a  modern  environment. 
The  incisiveness  of  portions  of  "  John  Ward," 
as  well  as  the  grace  of  its  side  scenes,  gives 
promise  of  still  more  valuable  coming  con- 
tributions to  American  fiction  by  the  poet 
of  the  charming  "  Old  Garden."  A  yet  later 
New  England  production  is  the  book  of  stories 
by  Mary  E.  Wilkins,  "  A  Humble  Romance," 
a  work  brimful  of  vigor  and  human  nature. 

We  need  not  now  enter  into  the  circum- 
stances tending  to  the  misdirection  of  intel- 
lectual effort  which  so  affected  the  work  of 
Southern  women  in  literature  that  for  some 
time  they  produced  little  of  enduring  value. 
These  causes  have  been  of  late  fully  set  forth 
by  a  writer  of  the  new  South,  Thomas  Nelson 
Page,  who  in  naming  the  women  of  Southern 
birth  or  residence  most  prominent  as  novelists 
before  the  civil  war  places  Mrs.  Terhune  in 
a  class  by  herself.  "  Like  the  others,  she  has 
used  the  Southern  life  as  material,  but  has  ex- 
hibited a  literary  sense  of  far  higher  order,  and 
an  artistic  touch."  Mrs.  Rebecca  Harding 
Davis,  a  native  of  West  Virginia,  has  chosen  a 
Pennsylvanian  background  for  some  of  her  best 
work;  producing,  perhaps,  nothing  stronger 
than  "  Life  in  the  Iron  Mills,"  published  long 
since  in  "  The  Atlantic  "  —  a  story  distantly 
akin  to  those  of  Miss  Phelps  and  the  author  of 
"  Poverty  Grass."  The  hopeless  heart-hunger 
of  the  poor  has  seldom  been  so  passionately 
pictured.  A  distinguishing  characteristic  of  the 
work  of  Mrs.  Davis  is  her  Browning-like  in- 
sistence on  the  rare  test-moments  of  life.  If, 
as  in  the  complicated  war-time  novel  "  Wait- 
ing for  the  Verdict,"  —  a  work  of  high  inten- 
tion, —  the  characters  come  out  startlingly  well 
in  the  sudden  lights  flashed  upon  them,  the 
writer's  idealism  is  tonic  and  uplifting. 


It  was  a  woman  of  the  North  who  pic- 
tured, in  a  series  of  brief  tales  and  sketches 
full  of  insight,  the  desolate  South  at  the  close 
of  the  civil  war  —  Constance  Fenimore  Wool- 
son,  the  most  broadly  national  of  our  women 
novelists.  Her  feeling  for  local  color  is  quick 
and  true ;  and  though  she  has  especially  identi- 
fied herself  with  the  Lake  country  and  with 
Florida,  one  is  left  with  the  impression  that 
her  assimilative  powers  would  enable  her  to 
reproduce  as  successfully  the  traits  of  any 
other  quarter  of  the  Union.  Few  American 
writers  of  fiction  have  given  evidence  of  such 
breadth,  so  full  a  sense  of  the  possibilities  of 
the  varied  and  complex  life  of  our  wide  land. 
Robust,  capable,  mature — these  seem  fitting 
words  to  apply  to  the  author  of  "  Anne,"  of 
"  East  Angels,"  of  the  excellent  short  stories 
in  "  Rodman  the  Keeper."  Women  have  reason 
for  pride  in  a  representative  novelist  whose 
genius  is  trained  and  controlled,  without  being 
tamed  or  dispirited. 

Similar  surefootedness  and  mastery  of  means 
are  displayed  by  Mary  Hallock  Foote  in  her 
picturesque  Western  stories,  such  as  "  The 
Led-Horse  Claim :  a  Romance  of  a  Mining 
Camp,"  and  "  John  Bodewin's  Testimony  "  — 
in  which  a  certain  gracefulness  takes  the  place 
of  the  fuller  warmth  of  Miss  Woolson.  One 
is  apt  to  name  the  two  writers  together,  since 
they  represent  the  most  supple  and  practiced 
talent  just  now  exercised  by  women  in  the 
department  of  fiction. 

Mrs.  Frances  Hodgson  Burnett,  English  by 
birth  and  education,  and  influenced  by  the 
Dickens  tradition,  though  reflecting  the  tone 
of  her  environment  wherever  fate  may  lead 
her,  touches  American  literature  chiefly  on  the 
Southern  side,  through  "  Louisiana  "  and  "  Es- 
meralda." Despite  the  ambitious  character  of 
her  novel  of  Washington  society,  "  Through 
One  Administration,"  her  most  durable  work 
is  either  thoroughly  English  or  belongs  to  the 
international  school.  This  particular  branch 
of  fiction  we  cannot  now  pause  to  note,  though 
conscious  that  such  books  as  the  beautiful 
"  Guenn "  of  Blanche  Willis  Howard  have 
their  own  distinct  value. 

A  truly  native  flower,  though  gathered  in 
a  field  so  unfamiliar  as  to  wear  a  seemingly 
foreign  charm,  is  Mrs.  Jackson's  poetic  "  Ra- 
mona."  A  book  instinct  with  passionate  pur- 
pose, intensely  alive  and  involving  the  reader 
in  its  movement,  it  yet  contains  an  idyl  of 
singular  loveliness,  the  perfection  of  which  lends 
the  force  of  contrast  to  the  pathetic  close.  A 
novel  of  reform,  into  which  a  great  and  gen- 
erous soul  poured  its  gathered  strength,  it  none 
the.  less  possesses  artistic  distinction.  Some- 
thing is,  of  course,  due  to  the  charm  of  at- 
mosphere, the  beauty  of  the  background  against 


928 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  IITERATURE. 


which  the  plot  naturally  placed  itself;  more,  to 
the  trained  hand,  the  pen  pliant  with  long  and 
free  exercise ;  most,  to  the  poet-heart.  "  Ra- 
mona  "  stands  as  the  most  finished,  though  not 
the  most  striking,  example  that  what  American 
women  have  done  notably  in  literature  they 
have  done  nobly. 

The  magazine-reading  world  has  hardly 
recovered  yet  from  its  shock  of  surprise  on 
discovering  the  author  of  "  In  the  Tennessee 
Mountains,"  a  book  of  short  stories  projecting 
the  lines  on  which  the  writer  has  since  ad- 
vanced in  "The  Prophet  of  the  Great  Smoky 
Mountains"  and  "  The  Despot  of  Broomsedge 
Cove."  Why  did  Miss  Murfree  prefer  to  begin 
her  literary  career  under  the  masculine  name  of 
"  Charles  Egbert  Craddock  "  ?  Probably  for 
the  same  reason  as  George  Sand,  George  El- 
iot, Currer  Bell ;  a  reason  stated  by  a  stanch 
advocate  of  women,  in  words  that  form  a  con- 
venient answer  to  the  common  sneer,  "  Not 
because  they  wished  to  be  men,  but  because 
they  wished  for  an  unbiased  judgment  as  art- 
ists." The  world  has  grown  so  much  more 
enlightened  on  this  point  that  the  biased  critic 
is  now  the  exception,  and  the  biased  editor  is 
a  myth.  The  precaution  of  disguise  cannot 
much  longer  remain  a  necessity,  if,  indeed,  it 
was  necessary  in  the  case  of  Miss  Murfree. 

From  whatever  cause  adopted,  the  mask 
was  a  completely  deceptive  one.  Mr.  Crad- 
dock's  vivid  portrayal  of  life  among  the  Ten- 
nessee mountains  was  fairly  discussed  and 
welcomed  as  a  valuable  and  characteristic  con- 
tribution from  the  South ;  and  nobody  hinted 
then  that  the  subtle  poetic  element  and  the 
tendency  to  subordinate  human  interest  to 
scenery  were  indications  of  the  writer's  sex. 
The  few  cherishers  of  the  fading  superstition 
that  women  are  without  humor  laughed  heart- 
ily and  unsuspiciously  over  the  droll  situations, 
the  quaint  sayings  of  the  mountaineers.  Once 
more  the  rednciio  ad  absurdum  has  been  ap- 
plied to  the  notion  of  ordained,  invariable,  and 
discernible  difference  between  the  literary  work 
of  men  and  that  of  women.  The  method  cer- 
tainly defers  to  dullness;  but  it  also  affords  food 
for  amusement  to  the  ironically  inclined. 

This  review,  cursory  and  incomplete  as  it 
is,  of  the  chief  accomplishment  of  American 
women  in  native  fiction,  serves  to  bring  out 
the  fact  that  they  have  during  the  last  forty 
years  supplied  to  our  literature  an  element  of 
great  and  genuine  value  ;  and  that  while  their 
productions  have  of  course  varied  in  power 
and  richness,  they  have  steadily  gained  in  art. 
How  wide  the  gap  between  "  Hobomok"  and 
"  Ramona  "  !  During  the  latter  half  of  the 
period  the  product  gives  no  general  evidence 
of  limitation  :  and  the  writers  would  certainly 
be  placed,  except  for  the  purposes  of  this  arti- 


cle, among  their  brother  authors,  in  classes 
determined  by  method,  local  background,  or 
any  other  basis  of  arrangement  which  is  artis- 
tic rather  than  personal.  In  exceptional  cases 
a  reviewer  perhaps  exclaims  upon  certain  faults 
as  "womanish";  but  the  cry  is  too  hasty ;  the 
faults  are  those  of  individuals,  in  either  sex. 
It  is  possible  to  match  them  from  the  work  of 
men,  and  to  adduce  examples  of  women's 
work  entirely  free  from  them.  Colonel  Hig- 
ginson  has  pointed  out  that  the  ivory  miniature 
method  in  favor  with  some  of  our  masculine 
artists  is  that  of  Jane  Austen.  Wherein  do 
Miss  Sprague's  "  Earnest  Trifler  "  or  "  The 
Daughter  of  Henry  Sage  Rittenhouse  "  display 
more  salient  indications  of  sex  than  works  of 
similar  scope  by  Mr.  Hemy  James  ? 

"The  almost  entire  disappearance  of  the 
distinctively  woman's  novel  "  —  that  is,  the 
novel  designed  expressly  for  feminine  readers, 
such  as  "The  Wide,  Wide  World  "  and  "  The 
Lamplighter  "  —  has  lately  been  commented 
upon.  It  is  to  be  observed  that  this  species— 
chiefly  produced  in  the  past  by  women,  as  the 
Warner  sisters,  Maria  S.  Cummins,  Elizabeth 
Payson  Prentiss,  the  excellent  Miss  Mcintosh 
—  has  become  nearly  extinct  at  the  very  time 
when  women  are  supplying  a  larger  proportion 
of  fiction  than  ever  before  ;  and,  further,  that 
the  comparatively  few  "  domestic  semi-pious" 
novels,  very  popular  in  late  years,  have  been 
of  masculine  production.  The  original  and  sug- 
gestive, though  perhaps  at  times  over-subtle, 
work  of  Mrs.  Whitney,  thoroughly  impreg- 
nated with  the  New  England  spirit,  and 
portraying  with  insight  various  phases  of 
girlhood,  takes  another  rank.  Whatever  may 
be  concluded  from  the  decadence  of  fiction, 
written  of  women,  for  women,  by  women,  it  is 
certainly  probable  that  women  will  remain,  as 
a  rule,  the  best  writers  for  girls.  In  connection 
with  this  subject  must  be  mentioned  the  widely 
known  and  appreciated  stories  of  Louisa  M. 
Alcott,  "Little  Women"  and  its  successors, 
which  "have  not  only  been  reprinted  and  largely 
sold  in  England,  but  also  translated  into  sev- 
eral foreign  languages,  and  thus  published  with 
persistent  success."  We  are  told  that  when 
"Little  Men"  was  issued  "its  publication  was 
delayed  until  the  publishers  were  prepared  to 
fill  advance  orders  for  fifty  thousand  copies." 

A  like  popularity  is  to  be  noted  of  the  spir- 
ited and  artistic  "  Hans  Brinker;  or,  the  Silver 
Skates,"  of  Mrs.  Mary  Mapes  Dodge,  which 
"  has  had  a  very  large  circulation  in  America  ; 
has  passed  through  several  editions  in  Eng- 
land; and  has  been  published  in  French  at 
Paris,  in  German  at  Leipsic,  in  Russian  at  St. 
Petersburg,  and  in  Italian  at  Rome.  .  .  .  The 
crowning  tribute  to  its  excellence  is  its  peren- 
nial sale  in  Holland  in  a  Dutch  edition."    No 


WOMAN  IN  AMERICAN  LITERATURE. 


929 


name  in  our  juvenile  literature  so  "  brings  a 
perfume  in  the  mention  "  as  that  of  Mrs.  Dodge, 
who  for  years  has  been  as  "  the  very  pulse  of 
the  machine  "  in  the  making  of  that  magazine 
for  children,  which  is  not  only  an  ever  new  de- 
light, but  a  genuine  educational  power. 

In  poetry  the  abundant  work  of  women 
during  the  last  half-century  shows  a  develop- 
ment corresponding  to  that  traced  in  the  field 
of  fiction.  As  the  flood  of  sentimentalism 
slowly  receded  hopeful  signs  began  to  appear 
—  the  rather  vague  tints  of  a  bow  of  poetical 
promise.  The  varying  verse  of  Mrs.  Oakes 
Smith,  Mrs.  Kinney,  Elizabeth  Lloyd  Howell, 
and  Harriet  Winslow  Sewall  represents,  in 
different  degrees,  a  general  advance.  The  "  lit- 
tle vagrant  pen  "  of  Frances  Sargent  Osgood, 
as  she  confessed,  "  wandered  lightly  down  the 
paper,"  but  its  fanciful  turns  had  now  and 
then  a  swift,  capricious  grace.  The  poems  of 
Sarah  Helen  Whitman,  belonging  to  the  land- 
scape school  of  Bryant,  are  of  marked  value, 
as  are  also  the  deeply  earnest  productions  of 
Mrs.  Anna  Lynch  Botta,  which  display  a  new 
distinctness  of  motive,  possibly  attributable  to 
the  influence  of  Longfellow.  The  same  in- 
fluence is  felt  in  some  of  the  early  work  of 
Alice  Gary,  whose  individual  strain  of  mel- 
ancholy melody  clings  to  remembrance,  its 
charm  stubbornly  outliving  our  critical  recog- 
nition of  defects  due,  in  great  measure,  to  over- 
production. Emily  Judson  sometimes  touched 
finely  the  familiar  chords,  as  in  the  well-known 
poem  of  motherhood,  "  My  Bird."  The  ten- 
der "  Morning  Glory  "  of  Maria  White  Lowell, 
whose  poems  are  characterized  by  a  delicate 
and  childlike  simplicity,  will  be  remembered. 

In  1873  a  critic,  not  generally  deemed  too 
favorable  to  growths  of  the  present  day,  re- 
corded the  opinion  that  there  was  "  more  force 
and  originality  —  in  other  words,  more  gen- 
ius —  in  the  living  female  poets  of  America 
than  in  all  their  predecessors,  from  Mistress 
Anne  Bradstreet  down.  At  any  rate  there  is  a 
wider  range  of  thought  in  their  verse,  and  in- 
finitely more  art."  For  the  change  first  noted 
by  Mr.  Stoddard  there  is  no  accounting ;  the 
tides  of  genius  are  incalculable.  The  other 
gains,  like  those  in  fiction,  are  to  be  accounted 
for  partly  by  the  law  of  evolution  working 
through  our  whole  literature,  by  the  influence 
of  sounder  models  and  of  a  truer  criticism, 
and  by  the  winnowing  processes  of  the  maga- 
zines ;  partly,  also,  by  the  altered  position  and 
improved  education  of  women  in  general  — 
not  necessarily  of  the  individual,  since  change 
in  the  atmosphere  may  have  important  re- 
sults in  cases  where  other  conditions  remain 
unchanged. 

The  poems  of  Mrs.  Howe  express  true  wom- 
Vol.  XL.— 122. 


anly  aspiration,  and  a  high  scorn  of  unworthi- 
ness,  but  their  strongest  characteristic  is  the 
fervent  patriotism  which  breathes  through  the 
famous  "  Battle  Hymn  of  the  Republic."  The 
clear,  hopeful  "  orchard  notes  "  of  Lucy  Lar- 
com, — it  is  impossible  to  refrain  from  quoting 
Mr.  Stedman's  perfect  phrase, —  first  heard  long 
since,  have  grown  more  mellow  with  advan- 
cing years. 

The  dramatic  lyric  took  new  force  and  nat- 
uralness in  the  hands  of  Rose  Terry  Cooke, 
and  turned  fiery  in  those  of  Mrs.  Stoddard, 
whose  contemplative  poems  also  have  an  emi- 
nent sad  dignity  of  style.  The  fine-spun  sub- 
jective verse  of  Mrs.  Piatt  flashes  at  times  with 
felicities,  as  a  web  with  dewdrops.  Many 
names  appear  upon  the  honorable  roll :  Mrs. 
Fields,  Mrs.  SpofTord, — whose  rich  nature  re- 
veals itself  in  verse  as  in  the  novel, —  Mrs.  Mar- 
garet J.  Preston,  Mrs.  Mary  Ashley  Townsend; 
Elizabeth  Akers  Allen,  Julia  C.  R.  Dorr,  Mrs. 
Stowe,  Mrs.  Whitney,  Mrs.  Dodge,  Mrs.  Moul- 
ton ;  Mrs.  Thaxter, —  the  sea's  true  lover,  who 
has  devoted  herself  to  the  faithful  expression 
of  a  single  phase  of  natural  beauty, —  Mrs.  Mary 
E.  Bradley,  Kate  Putnam  Osgood,  Nora  Perry, 
Mary  N.  Prescott,  and  Harriet  McEwen 
Kimball ;  Mary  Clemmer  Hudson,  Margaret 
E.  Sangster,  Miss  Bushnell,  "  Susan  Coolidge," 
"  Howard  Glyndon,"  "  Stuart  Sterne,"  Char- 
lotte Fiske  Bates,  May  Riley  Smith,  Ella 
Dietz,  Mary  Ainge  de  Vere,  Edna  Dean 
Proctor,  the  Goodale  sisters,  Miss  Coolbrith, 
Miss  Shinn,  "  Owen  Innsly,"  Elizabeth  Stuart 
Phelps,  and  Alice  Wellington  Rollins.  There 
is  a  kind  of  white  fire  in  the  best  of  the  subtle 
verses  of  "  H.  H."  —  a  diamond  light,  en- 
hanced by  careful  cutting.  Generally  imper- 
sonal, the  author's  individuality  yet  lives  in 
them  to  an  unusual  degree.  We  may  recognize 
also  in  the  Jewish  poems  of  Emma  Lazarus, 
especially  in  "  By  the  Waters  of  Babylon,"  and 
the  powerful  fourteenth-century  tragedy,  "  The 
Dance  to  Death,"  "  the  precious  life-blood  of 
a  master  spirit,  embalmed  and  treasured  up 
on  purpose  to  a  life  beyond  life."  The  poems 
of  Edith  M.  Thomas,  with  their  exquisite  work- 
manship, mark  the  high  attainment  of  woman 
in  the  mastery  of  poetic  form,  and  exhale  some 
breath  of  that  fragrance  which  clings  to  the 
work  of  the  young  Keats,  Miss  Hutchinson's 
"  Songs  and  Lyrics "  have  also  rare  quality. 
The  graceful  verse  of  Mrs.  Deland  has  been 
quick  to  win  the  ear  of  the  public.  Louise 
Imogen  Guiney,  sometimes  straining  the  voice, 
has  nevertheless  contributed  to  the  general 
chorus  notes  of  unusual  fullness  and  strength. 

In  other  branches  of  literature,  to  which 
comparatively  few  women  have  chosen  to  de- 
vote themselves,  an  increasing  thoroughness 
is  apparent,  a  growing  tendency  to  specialism. 


93° 


ELF-SHOT. 


The  irresponsible  feminine  free  lance,  with  her 
gay  dash  at  all  subjects,  and  her  alliterative 
pen  name  dancing  in  every  melee  like  a  bril- 
liant pennon,  has  gone  over  into  the  more 
appropriate  field  of  journalism.  The  calmly 
adequate  literary  matron  of  all  work  is  an  ad- 
mirable type  of  the  past,  no  longer  developed 
by  the  new  conditions.  The  articles  of  the  late 
Lucy  M.  Mitchell  on  sculpture,  and  of  Mrs. 
Schuyler  van  Rensselaer  on  art  and  architect- 
ure; the  historical  work  of  Martha  J.  Lamb  and 
of  the  lamented  Mary  L.  Booth,  the  latter 
also  an  indefatigable  translator  ;  the  studies  of 
Helen  Campbell  in  social  science ;  the  transla- 
tions of  Harriet  Waters  Preston  —  these  few 
examples  are  typical  of  the  determination  and 
concentration  of  woman's  work  at  the  present 
day.  We  notice  in  each  new  issue  of  a  maga- 
zine the  well-known  specialists.  Miss  Thomas 
has  given  herself  to  the  interpretation  of  nature, 
in  prose  as  in  verse ;  "  Olive  Thome  "  Miller 
to  the  loving  study  of  bird  life.  Mrs.  Jackson, 
the  most  versatile  of  later  writers,  possessed 
the  rare  combination  of  versatility  and  thor- 
oughness in  such  measure  that  we  might  almost 
copy  Hartley  Coleridge's  saying  of  Harriet 
Martineau,  and  call  her  a  specialist  about 
everything;  but  her  name  will  be  associated 
with  the  earnest  presentation  of  the  wrongs  of 
the  Indian,  as  that  of  Emma  Lazarus  with  the 
impassioned  defense  of  the  rights  of  the  Jew. 
The  just  and  genial  Colonel  Higginson  ex- 
presses disappointment  that  woman's  advance 
in  literature  has  not  been  more  marked  since 
the  establishment  of  the  women's  colleges. 
"  It  is,"  he  says,  "  considerable  and  substan- 
tial ;  yet  in  view  of  the  completeness  with 
which  literary  work  is  now  thrown  open  to 
women,  and  their  equality  as  to  pay,  there  is 
room  for  some  surprise  that  it  is  not  greater." 


The  proper  fruit  of  the  women's  colleges  in 
literature  has,  in  fact,  not  yet  ripened.  It  may 
at  first  seem  strangely  delayed,  yet  reflection 
suggests  the  reasons.  An  unavoidable  self- 
consciousness  hampers  the  first  workers  under 
a  new  dispensation.  It  might  appear  at  a 
casual  glance  that  those  released  from  the 
burden  of  a  retarding  tradition  were  ready  at 
once  for  the  race,  but  the  weight  has  only 
been  exchanged  for  the  lighter  burden  of  the 
unfamiliar.  College-bred  women  of  the  highest 
type  have  accepted,  with  grave  conscientious- 
ness, new  social  responsibilities  as  the  con- 
comitant of  their  new  opportunities. 

Pealing,  the  clock  of  Time 
Has  struck  the  Woman's  hour  ; 
We  hear  it  on  our  knees, 

wrote  Miss  Phelps  for  the  graduates  of  Smith 
College  ten  years  ago.  That  the  summons  has 
indeed  been  reverently  heard  and  faithfully 
obeyed,  those  who  have  followed  the  work  of 
the  Association  of  Collegiate  Alumnae  can  tes- 
tify. The  deed,  and  not  the  word,  engages 
the  energy  of  the  college  woman  of  to-day; 
but  as  these  institutions  grow  into  the  life  of 
our  land  that  life  will  be  everywhere  enriched, 
and  the  word  must  follow  in  happy  time.  In- 
dividual genius  for  literature  is  sure,  sooner  or 
later,  to  appear  within  the  constantly  widening 
circle  of  those  fairly  equipped  for  its  exercise. 
It  would  be  idle  to  expect  that  the  cases  in 
which  native  power  and  an  adequate  prepara- 
tion go  hand  in  hand  will  be  frequent,  since 
they  are  infrequent  among  men.  The  desirable 
thing  was,  that  this  rare  development  should 
be  made  a  possibility  among  women.  It  is  pos- 
sible to-day ;  some  golden  morrow  will  make  it 
a  reality. 

Helen  Gray  Cone. 


ELF-SHOT. 


ON  a  wild  morning,  at  a  highway's  bend,  Since  then,  when  wit  of  his  doth  make  a  feast, 

Three  arrows  pierced  him  through.  His  strength  a  shelter,  know 

They  meant  no  hurt ;  they  only  left  my  friend  His  footsteps  sound  about ;  and  yet  he  ceased, 

No  more  to  dream  or  do.  How  softly,  years  ago ! 


By  what  fierce  wrong  this  came — what  law 
or  luck, 

Ask  not;  his  annals  all 
In  the  sharp  summary:  the  arrotvs  struck! 

Arise,  converge,  and  fall. 

Faith  broke,  adventure's  wing  was  overwrought, 

Desire's  bright  spring  decayed  ; 
Upon  the  curious  eye  that  long  had  sought 

Too  much  of  sight  was  laid. 


He  is  secure.     A  history  wraps  him  close 

To  no  skilled  guess  attuned : 
Still  smiling,  still  uncatalogued,  he  goes 

With  his  immortal  wound. 

Oft  as  you  meet  my  gracious  fugitive, 

Salute  him,  from  your  strife  : 
To  you  the  victory,  men  who  work  and  live, 

Peace  to  that  ended  life ! 

Louise  Imogen  Guiney. 


A  HARD  ROAD  TO  TRAVEL  OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


IT  was  past  noon  of  the  first  day  of 
jfv  the  bloody  contest  in  the  Wil- 
tjgi  derness.     The  guns  of  the 

gr  £^tf  Fifth  Corps,  led  by  Battery 
^Pfi£2|  D  of  the  i  st  New  York 
-JttBSIyI  Artillery,  were  halted  along 
3||p^S&\  the  Orange  turnpike,  by 
which  we  had  made  the 
fruitless  campaign  to  Mine 
Run.  The  continuous  roar 
of  musketry  in  front  and  to 
the  left  indicated  that  the  infantry  was  des- 
perately engaged,  while  the  great  guns  filling 
every  wooded  road  leading  up  to  the  battle- 
field were  silent.  Our  drivers  were  lounging 
about  the  horses,  while  the  cannoneers  lay 
on  the  green  grass  by  the  roadside  or  walked  by 
the  pieces.  Down  the  line  came  an  order  for  the 
center  section,  under  my  command,  to  advance 
and  pass  the  right  section,  which  lay  in  front 
of  us.  General  Warren,  surrounded  by  his  staff, 
sat  on  a  gray  horse  at  the  right  of  the  road 
where  the  woods  bordered  an  open  field  dip- 
ping between  two  wooded  ridges.  The  posi- 
tion we  were  leaving  was  admirable,  while  the 
one  to  which  we  were  ordered,  on  the  oppo- 
site side  of  the  narrow  field,  was  wholly  imprac- 
ticable. The  captain  had  received  his  orders  in 
person  from  General  Warren,  and  joined  my 
command  as  we  passed. 

We  dashed  down  the  road  at  a  trot,  the  can- 
noneers running  beside  their  pieces.  At  the 
center  of  the  field  we  crossed  by  a  wooden 
bridge  over  a  deep,  dry  ditch,  and  came  rap- 
idly into  position  at  the  side  of  the  turnpike 
and  facing  the  thicket.  As  the  cannoneers 
were  not  all  up,  the  captain  and  I  dismounted 
and  lent  a  hand  in  swinging  round  the  heavy 
trails.  The  air  was  full  of  minie-balls,  some 
whistling  by.  like  mad  hornets,  and  others, 
partly  spent,  humming  like  big  nails.  One  of 
the  latter  struck  my  knee  with  force  enough 
to  wound  to  the  bone  without  penetrating  the 
grained-leather  boot-leg.  In  front  of  us  the 
ground  rose  into  the  timber  where  our  infantry 
was  engaged.  It  was  madness  to  continue 
firing  here,  for  my  shot  must  first  plow  through 
our  own  lines  before  reaching  the  enemy.  So 
after  one  discharge  the  captain  ordered  the 
limbers  to  the  rear,  and  the  section  started 
back  at  a  gallop.    My  horse  was  cut  on  the 


flanks,  and  his  plunging,  with  my  disabled 
knee,  delayed  me  in  mounting,  and  prevented 
my  seeing  why  the  carriages  kept  to  the  grass 
instead  of  getting  upon  the  roadway.  When 
I  overtook  the  guns  they  had  come  to  a  forced 
halt  at  the  dry  ditch,  now  full  of  skulkers,  an 
angle  of  which  cut  the  way  to  the  bridge. 
Brief  as  the  interval  had  been,  not  a  man  of 
my  command  was  in  sight.  The  lead  horse 
of  the  gun  team  at  my  side  had  been  shot 
and  was  reeling  in  the  harness.  Slipping  to  the 
ground,  I  untoggled  one  trace  at  the  collar  to 
release  him,  and  had  placed  my  hand  on  the 
other  when  I  heard  the  demand  "  Surrender !  " 
and  turning  found  in  my  face  two  big  pistols 
in  the  hands  of  an  Alabama  colonel.  "  Give 
me  that  sword,"  said  he.  I  pressed  the  clasp 
and  let  it  fall  to  the  ground,  where  it  remained. 
The  colonel  had  taken  me  by  the  right  arm, 
and  as  we  turned  towards  the  road  I  took  in 
the  whole  situation  at  a  glance.  My  chestnut 
horse  and  the  captain's  bald-faced  brown  were 
dashing  frantically  against  the  long,  swaying 
gun  teams.  By  the  bridge  stood  a  company 
of  the  6 1  st  Alabama  Infantry  in  butternut 
suits  and  slouch  hats,  shooting  straggling  and 
wounded  Zouaves  from  a  Pennsylvania  brigade 
as  they  appeared  in  groups  of  two  or  three 
on  the  road  in  front.  The  colonel  as  he  handed 
me  over  to  his  men  ordered  his  troops  to 
take  what  prisoners  they  could  and  to  cease 
firing.  The  guns  which  we  were  forced  to 
abandon  were  a  bone  of  contention  until  they 
were  secured  by  the  enemy  on  the  third  day, 
at  which  time  but  one  of  the  twenty-four  team 
horses  was  living. 

With  a  few  other  prisoners  I  was  led  by  a 
short  detour  through  the  woods.  In  ten  min- 
utes we  had  turned  the  flank  of  both  armies  and 
reached  the  same  turnpike  in  the  rear  of  our 
enemy.  A  line  of  ambulances  was  moving 
back  on  the  road,  all  filled  with  wounded,  and 
when  we  saw  a  vacant  seat  beside  a  driver  I 
was  hoisted  up  to  the  place.  The  boy  driver 
was  in  a  high  state  of  excitement.  He  said 
that  two  shells  had  come  flying  down  this  same 
road  and  showed  where  the  trace  of  the  near 
mule  had  been  cut  by  a  piece  of  shell,  for  which 
I  was  directly  responsible. 

The  field  hospital  of  General  Jubal  Early's 
corps  was  near  Locust  Grove  Tavern,  where 

931 


932 


A   HARD  ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


the  wounded  Yankees  were  in  charge  of  Sur- 
geon Donnelly  of  the  Pennsylvania  Reserves. 
No  guard  was  established,  as  no  one  was 
supposed  to  be  in  condition  to  run  away. 
At  the  end  of  a  week,  however,  my  leg  had 
greatly  improved,  although  I  was  still  un- 
able to  use  it.  In  our  party  was  another  lieu- 
tenant, an  aide  on  the  start  of  General  James 
C.  Rice,  whose  horse  had  been  shot  under 
him  while  riding  at  full  speed  with  despatches. 
Lieutenant  Hadley  had  returned  to  conscious- 
ness to  find  himself  a  prisoner  in  hospital,  some- 
what bruised,  and  robbed  of  his  valuables,  but 
not  otherwise  disabled.  We  two  concluded  to 
start  for  Washington  by  way  of  Kelly's  Ford. 
I  traded  my  penknife  for  a  haversack  of  corn- 
bread  with  one  of  the  Confederate  nurses, 
and  a  wounded  officer,  Colonel  Miller  of  a 
New  York  regiment,  gave  us  a  pocket  com- 
pass. I  provided  myself  with  a  stout  pole, 
which  I  used  with  both  hands  in  lieu  of  my 
left  foot.  At  9  p.  m.  we  set  out,  passing  dur- 
ing the  night  the  narrow  field  and  the  dry  ditch 
where  I  had  left  my  guns.  Only  a  pile  of  dead 
horses  marked  the  spot. 

On  a  grassy  bank  we  captured  a  firefly  and 
shut  him  in  between  the  glass  and  the  face  of 
our  pocket  compass.  With  such  a  guide  we 
shaped  our  course  for  the  Rapidan.  After 
traveling  nearly  all  night  we  lay  down  exhausted 
upon  a  bluff  within  sound  of  the  river  and  slept 
until  sunrise.  Hastening  to  our  feet  again,  we 
hurried  down  to  the  ford.  Just  before  reach- 
ing the  river  we  heard  shouts  behind  us  and 
saw  a  man  beckoning  and  running  after  us. 
Believing  the  man  an  enemy,  we  dashed  into 
the  shallow  water,  and  after  crossing  safely 
hobbled  away  up  the  other  side  as  fast  as  a 
man  with  one  leg  and  a  pole  could  travel.  I 
afterwards  met  this  man,  himself  a  prisoner, 
at  Macon,  Georgia.  He  was  the  officer  of  our 
pickets,  and  would  have  conducted  us  into 
our  lines  if  we  had  permitted  him  to  come  up 
with  us.  As  it  was,  we  found  a  snug  hiding- 
place  in  a  thicket  of  swamp  growth,  where  we 
lay  in  concealment  all  day.  After  struggling 
on  a  few  miles  in  a  chilling  rain  my  leg  became 
so  painful  that  it  was  impossible  to  go  farther. 
A  house  was  near  by,  and  we  threw  ourselves 
on  the  mercy  of  the  family.  Good  Mrs.  Brandon 
had  harbored  the  pickets  of  both  armies  again 
and  again,  and  had  luxuriated  in  real  coffee 
and  tea  and  priceless  salt  at  the  hands  of  our 
officers.  She  bore  the  Yankees  only  good- will, 
and  after  dressing  my  wound  we  sat  down 
to  breakfast  with  herself  and  her  daughters. 

After  breakfast  we  were  conducted  to  the 
second  half-story,  which  was  one  unfinished 
room.  There  was  a  bed  in  one  corner  where 
we  were  to  sleep.  Beyond  the  stairs  was  a  pile 
of  yellow  ears  of  corn,  and  from  the  rafters 


and  sills  hung  a  variety  of  dried  herbs  and 
medicinal  roots.  Here  our  meals  were  served, 
and  the  girls  brought  us  books  and  read  aloud 
to  pass  away  the  long  days.  I  was  confined 
to  the  bed,  and  my  companion  never  ventured 
below  stairs  except  on  one  dark  night,  when 
at  my  earnest  entreaty  he  set  out  for  Kelly's 
Ford,  but  soon  returned,  unable  to  make  his 
way  in  the  darkness.  One  day  we  heard  the 
door  open  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs,  a  tread  of 
heavy  boots  on  the  steps,  and  the  clank,  clank 
of  something  that  sounded  very  much  like  a 
saber.  Out  of  the  floor  rose  a  gray  slouch  hat 
with  the  yellow  cord  and  tassel  of  a  cavalry- 
man, and  in  another  moment  there  stood  on 
the  landing  one  of  the  most  astonished  troop- 
ers that  ever  was  seen.  "  Coot "  Brandon  was 
one  of  "  Jeb  "  Stuart's  rangers,  and  came  every 
day  for  corn  for  his  horse.  Heretofore  the  corn 
had  been  brought  down  for  him,  and  he  was 
as  ignorant  of  our  presence  as  we  were  of  his 
existence.  On  this  day  no  pretext  could  keep 
him  from  coming  up  to  help  himself.  His 
mother  worked  on  his  sympathies,  and  he  de- 
parted promising  her  that  he  would  leave  us 
undisturbed.  But  the  very  next  morning  he 
turned  up  again,  this  time  accompanied  by 
another  ranger  of  sterner  mold.  A  parole  was 
exacted  from  my  able-bodied  companion  and 
we  were  left  for  another  twenty-four  hours, 
when  I  was  considered  in  condition  to  be 
moved.  Mrs.  Brandon  gave  us  each  a  new 
blue  overcoat  from  a  plentiful  store  of  Uncle 
Sam's  clothing  she  had  on  hand,  and  I  opened 
my  heart  and  gave  her  my  last  twenty-dollar 
greenback  —  and  wished  I  had  it  back  again 
every  day  for  the  next  ten  months. 

I  was  mounted  on  a  horse,  and  with  Lieu- 
tenant Hadley  on  foot  we  were  marched  under 
guard  all  day  until  we  arrived  at  a  field  hos- 
pital established  in  the  rear  of  Longstreet's 
corps,  my  companion  being  sent  on  to  some 
prison  for  officers.  Thence  I  was  forwarded 
with  a  train-load  of  wounded  to  Lynchburg,  on 
which  General  Hunter  was  then  marching,  and 
we  had  good  reason  to  hope  for  a  speedy  de- 
liverance. On  more  than  one  day  we  heard  his 
guns  to  the  north,  where  there  was  no  force 
but  a  few  citizens  with  bird  guns  to  oppose  the 
entrance  of  his  command.  The  slaves  were 
employed  on  a  line  of  breastworks  which  there 
was  no  adequate  force  to  hold.  It  was  our 
opinion  that  one  well-disciplined  regiment 
could  have  captured  and  held  the  town.  It 
was  several  days  before  a  portion  of  General 
Breckinridge's  command  arrived  for  the  de- 
fense of  Lynchburg. 

I  had  clung  to  my  clean  bed  in  the  hospital 
just  as  long  as  my  rapidly  healing  wound 
would  permit,  but  was  soon  transferred  to  a 
prison  where  at  night  the  sleepers  —  Yankees, 


A    HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


933 


Confederate  deserters,  and  negroes  —  were  so 
crowded  upon  the  floor  that  some  lay  under 
the  feet  of  the  guards  in  the  doorways.  The 
atmosphere  was  dreadful.  I  fell  ill,  and  for 
three  days  lay  with  my  head  in  the  fireplace, 
more  dead  than  alive. 

A  few  days  thereafter  about  three  hundred 
prisoners  were  crowded  into  cattle  cars  bound 
for  Andersonville.  We  must  have  been  a  week 
on  this  railroad  journey  when  an  Irish  lieu- 
tenant of  a  Rochester  regiment  and  I,  who 
had  been  allowed  to  ride  in  the  baggage 
car,  were  taken  from  the  train  at  Macon, 
Georgia,  where  about  sixteen  hundred  Union 
officers  were  confined  at  the  Fair- Grounds. 
General  Alexander  Shaler,  of  Sedgwick's  corps, 
also  captured  at  the  Wilderness,  was  the  rank- 
ing officer,  and  to  him  was  accorded  a  sort  of 
interior  command  of  the  camp.  Before  pass- 
ing through  the  gate  we  expected  to  see  a 
crowd  bearing  some  outward  semblance  of 
respectability.  Instead,  we  were  instantly  sur- 
rounded by  several  hundred  ragged,  bare- 
footed, frowzy-headed  men  shouting  "Fresh 
fish ! "  at  the  top  of  their  voices  and  eagerly  ask- 
ing for  news.  With  rare  exceptions  all  were 
shabbily  dressed.  There  was,  however,  a  little 
knot  of  naval  officers,  who  had  been  captured  in 
the  windings  of  the  narrow  Rappahannock  by  a 
force  of  cavalry,  and  who  were  the  aristocrats  of 
the  camp.  They  were  housed  in  a  substantial 
fair-building  in  the  center  of  the  grounds,  and 
by  some  special  terms  of  surrender  must  have 
brought  their  complete  wardrobes  along.  On 
hot  days  they  appeared  in  spotless  white  duck, 
which  they  were  permitted  to  send  outside  to 
be  laundered.  Their  mess  was  abundantly  sup- 
plied with  the  fruits  and  vegetables  of  the 
season.  The  ripe  red  tomatoes  they  were 
daily  seen  to  peel  were  the  envy  of  the  camp. 
I  well  remember  that  to  me,  at  this  time,  a 
favorite  occupation  was  to  lie  on  my  back  with 
closed  eyes  and  imagine  the  dinner  I  would 
order  if  I  were  in  a  first-class  hotel.  It  was  no 
unusual  thing  to  see  a  dignified  colonel  wash- 
ing his  lower  clothes  in  a  pail,  clad  only  in  his 
uniform  dress-coat.  Ladies  sometimes  ap- 
peared on  the  guard-walk  outside  the  top  of 
the  stockade,  on  which  occasions  the  cleanest 
and  best-dressed  men  turned  out  to  see  and  be 
seen.  I  was  quite  proud  to  appear  in  a  clean 
gray  shirt,  spotless  white  drawers,  and  mocca- 
sins made  of  blue  overcoat  cloth. 

On  the  Fourth  of  July,  after  the  regular 
morning  count,  we  repaired  to  the  big  central 
building  and  held  an  informal  celebration. 
One  officer  had  brought  into  captivity,  con- 
cealed on  his  person,  a  little  silk  national  flag, 
which  was  carried  up  into  the  cross-beams  of 
the  building,  and  the  sight  of  it  created  the 
wildest  enthusiasm.    We  cheered  the  flag  and 


applauded  the  patriotic  speeches  until  a  de- 
tachment of  the  guard  succeeded  in  putting 
a  stop  to  our  proceedings.  They  tried  to  cap- 
ture the  flag,  but  in  this  they  were  not  success- 
ful. We  were  informed  that  cannon  were 
planted  commanding  the  camp,  and  would  be 
opened  on  us  if  we  renewed  our  demonstra- 
tions. 

Soon  after  this  episode  the  fall  of  Atlanta 
and  the  subsequent  movements  of  General 
Sherman  led  to  the  breaking  up  of  the  camp 
at  Macon,  and  to  the  transfer  of  half  of  us  to 
a  camp  at  Charleston  and  half  to  Savannah. 
Late  in  September,  by  another  transfer,  we 
found  ourselves  together  again  at  Columbia. 
We  had  no  form  of  shelter,  and  there  was  no 
stockade  around  the  camp,  only  a  guard  and 
a  dead-line.  During  two  hours  of  each  morn- 
ing an  extra  line  of  guards  was  stationed 
around  an  adjoining  piece  of  pine  woods,  into 
which  we  were  allowed  to  go  and  cut  wood 
and  timber  to  construct  for  ourselves  huts  for 
the  approaching  winter.  Our  ration  at  this 
time  consisted  of  raw  corn-meal  and  sorghum 
molasses,  without  salt  or  any  provision  of  uten- 
sils for  cooking.  The  camp  took  its  name  from 
our  principal  article  of  diet,  and  was  by  com- 
mon consent  known  as  "  Camp  Sorghum."  A 
stream  of  clear  water  was  accessible  during 
the  day  by  an  extension  of  the  guards,  but  at 
night  the  lines  were  so  contracted  as  to  leave 
the  path  leading  to  the  water  outside  the  guard. 
Lieutenant  S.  H.  M.  Byers,  who  had  already 
written  the  well-known  lyric  "  Sherman's 
March  to  the  Sea,"  was  sharing  my  tent,  which 
consisted  of  a  ragged  blanket.  We  had  been 
in  the  new  camp  but  little  more  than  a  week 
when  we  determined  to  make  an  attempt  at 
escape.  Preparatory  to  starting  we  concealed 
two  tin  cups  and  two  blankets  in  the  pine 
woods  to  which  we  had  access  during  the  chop- 
ping hours,  and  here  was  to  be  our  rendezvous  in 
case  we  were  separated  in  getting  out.  Cover- 
ing my  shoulders  with  an  old  gray  blanket  and 
providing  myself  with  a  stick  from  the  wood- 
pile about  the  size  of  a  gun,  I  tried  to  smuggle 
myself  into  the  relief  guard  when  the  line  was 
contracted  at  six  o'clock.  Unfortunately  an 
unexpected  halt  was  called,  and  the  soldier  in 
front  turned  and  discovered  me.  I  was  now 
more  than  ever  determined  on  getting  away. 
After  a  hurried  conference  with  Lieutenant 
Byers,  at  which  I  promised  to  wait  at  our  ren- 
dezvous in  the  woods  until  I  heard  the  posting 
of  the  ten  o'clock  relief,  I  proceeded  alone  up 
the  side  of  the  camp  to  a  point  where  a  group 
of  low  cedars  grew  close  to  the  dead-line. 
Concealing  myself  in  their  dark  shadow,  I  could 
observe  at  my  leisure  the  movements  of  the 
sentinels.  A  full  moon  was  just  rising  above 
the  horizon  to  my  left,  and  in  the  soft,  misty 


934 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


light  the  guards  were  plainly  visible  for  a  long 
distance  either  way.  An  open  field  from  which 
the  small  growth  had  been  recently  cut  away 
lay  beyond,  and  between  the  camp  and  the 
guard-line  ran  a  broad  road  of  soft  sand  — 
noiseless  to  cross,  but  so  white  in  the  moon- 
light that  a  leaf  blown  across  it  by  the  wind 
could  scarcely  escape  a  vigilant  eye.  The 
guards  were  bundled  in  their  overcoats,  and  I 
soon  observed  that  the  two  who  met  opposite 
to  my  place  of  concealment  turned  and 
walked  their  short  beats  without  looking  back. 
Waiting  until  they  separated  again,  and  re- 
gardless of  the  fact  that  I  might  with  equal 
likelihood  be  seen  by  a  dozen  sentinels  in  either 
direction,  I  ran  quickly  across  the  soft  sand 
road  several  yards  into  the  open  field,  and 
threw  myself  down  upon  the  uneven  ground. 
First  I  dragged  my  body  on  my  elbows  for 
a  few  yards,  then  I  crept  on  my  knees,  and 
so  gradually  gained  in  distance  until  I  could 
rise  to  a  standing  position  and  get  safely  to 
the  shelter  of  the  trees.  With  some  difficulty 
I  found  the  cups  and  blankets  we  had  con- 
cealed, and  lay  down  to  await  the  arrival  of 
my  companion.  Soon  I  heard  several  shots 
which  I  understood  too  well ;  and,  as  I  after- 
wards learned,  two  officers  were  shot  dead 
for  attempting  the  feat  I  had  accomplished, 
and  perhaps  in  emulation  of  my  success.  A 
third  young  officer,  whom  I  knew,  was  also 
killed  in  camp  by  one  of  the  shots  fired  at  the 
others. 

At  ten  o'clock  I  set  out  alone  and  made  my 
way  across  the  fields  to  the  bank  of  the  Saluda, 
where  a  covered  bridge  crossed  to  Columbia. 
Hiding  when  it  was  light,  wandering  through 
fields  and  swamps  by  night,  and  venturing  at 
last  to  seek  food  of  negroes,  I  proceeded  for 
thirteen  days  towards  the  sea. 

In  general  I  had  followed  the  Columbia 
turnpike ;  at  a  quaint  little  chapel  on  the  shore 
of  Goose  Creek,  but  a  few  miles  out  of  Charles- 
ton, I  turned  to  the  north  and  bent  my  course 
for  the  coast  above  the  city.  About  this  time 
I  learned  that  I  should  find  no  boats  along 
the  shore  between  Charleston  and  the  mouth 
of  the  Santee,  everything  able  to  float  having 
been  destroyed  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the 
negroes  and  the  desertion  of  the  soldiers.  I 
was  ferried  over  the  Broad  River  by  a  crusty 
old  darky  who  came  paddling  across  in  re- 
sponse to  my  cries  of  "  O-v-e-r,"  and  who 
seemed  so  put  out  because  I  had  no  fare  for 
him  that  I  gave  him  my  case-knife.  The  next 
evening  I  had  the  only  taste  of  meat  of  this 
thirteen  days'  journey,  which  I  got  from  an 
old  negro  whom  I  found  alone  in  his  cabin 
eating  possum  and  rice. 

1  had  never  seen  the  open  sea-coast  beaten 
by  the  surf,  and  after  being  satisfied  that  I 


had  no  hope  of  escape  in  that  direction  it  was 
in  part  my  curiosity  that  led  me  on,  and  partly 
a  vague  idea  that  I  would  get  Confederate 
transportation  back  to  Columbia  and  take  a 
fresh  start  westward  bound.  The  tide  was 
out,  and  in  a  little  cove  I  found  an  abun- 
dance of  oysters  bedded  in  the  mud,  some  of 
which  I  cracked  with  stones  and  ate.  After  satis- 
fying my  hunger,  and  finding  the  sea  rather  un- 
expectedly tame  inside  the  line  of  islands  which 
marked  the  eastern  horizon,  I  bent  my  steps 
towards  a  fire,  where  I  found  a  detachment  of 
Confederate  coast-guards,  to  whom  I  offered 
myself  as  a  guest  as  coolly  as  if  my  whole 
toilsome  journey  had  been  prosecuted  to  that 
end. 

In  the  morning  I  was  inarched  a  few  miles 
to  Mount  Pleasant,  near  Fort  Moultrie,  and 
taken  thence  in  a  sail-boat  across  the  harbor 
to  Charleston.  At  night  I  found  myself  again 
in  the  city  jail,  where  with  a  large  party  of 
officers  I  had  spent  most  of  the  month  of 
August.  My  cell-mate  was  Lieutenant  H.  G. 
Dorr  of  the  4th  Massachusetts  Cavalry,  with 
whom  I  journeyed  by  rail  back  to  Columbia, 
arriving  at  "Camp  Sorghum"  about  the  1st 
of  November. 

I  rejoined  the  mess  of  Lieutenant  Byers  and 
introduced  to  the  others  Lieutenant  Dorr, 
whose  cool  assurance  was  a  prize  that  pro- 
cured us  all  the  blessings  possible.  He  could 
borrow  frying-pans  from  the  guards,  money 
from  his  brother  Masons  at  headquarters,  and 
I  believe  if  we  had  asked  him  to  secure  us  a 
gun  he  would  have  charmed  it  out  of  the 
hand  of  a  sentinel  on  duty. 

Lieutenant  Edward  E.  Sill,  of  General  Daniel 
Butterfi eld's  staff,  whom  I  had  met  at  Macon, 
during  my  absence  had  come  to  "  Sorghum  " 
from  a  fruitless  trip  to  Macon  for  exchange, 
and  I  had  promised  to  join  him  in  an  escape 
when  he  could  secure  a  pair  of  shoes.  On  the 
29th  of  November  our  mess  had  cut  down  a 
big  pine  tree  and  had  rolled  into  camp  a  short 
section  of  the  trunk,  which  a  Tennessee  offi- 
cer was  to  split  into  shingles  to  complete  our 
hut,  a  pretty  good  cabin  with  earthen  fireplace. 
While  we  were  resting  from  our  exertion,  Sill 
appeared  with  his  friend  Lieutenant  A.  T. 
Lamson  of  the  104th  New  York  Infantry,  and 
reminded  me  of  my  promise.  The  prisoners 
always  respected  their  parole  on  wood-chop- 
ping expeditions,  and  went  out  and  came  in 
at  the  main  entrance.  The  guards  were  a  par- 
ticularly verdant  body  of  back  country  militia, 
and  the  confusion  of  the  parole  system  enabled 
us  to  practice  ruses.  In  our  present  difficulty  we 
resorted  to  a  new  expedient  and  forged  a  parole. 
The  next  day  all  three  of  us  were  quietly  walk- 
ing down  the  guard-line  on  the  outside.  At  the 
creek,  where  all  the  camp  came  for  water,  we 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


935 


found  Dorr  and  Byers  and  West,  and  calling  to 
one  of  them  in  the  presence  of  the  guard  asked 
for  blankets  to  bring  in  spruce  boughs  for  beds. 
When  the  blankets  came  they  contained  cer- 
tain haversacks,  cups,  and  little  indispensable 
articles  for  the  road.  Falling  back  into  the 
woods,  we  secured  a  safe  hiding-place  until 
after  dark.  Just  beyond  the  village  of  Lexing- 
ton we  successfully  evaded  the  'first  picket, 
being  warned  of  its  presence  by  the^molder- 
ing  embers  in  the  road.  A  few  nights  after 
this,  having  exposed  ourselves  and  anticipat- 
ing pursuit,  we  pushed  on  until  we  came  to  a 
stream  crossing  the  road.  Up  this  we  waded 
for  some  distance  and  secured  a  hiding-place 
on  a  neighboring  hill.  In  the  morning  we  looked 
out  upon  mounted  men  and  dogs,  at  the  very 
point  where  we  had  entered  the  stream,  search- 
ing for  our  lost  trail.  We  spent  two  days  dur- 
ing a  severe  storm  of  rain  and  sleet  in  a  farm 
barn  where  the  slaves  were  so  drunk  on  apple- 
jack that  they  had  forgotten  us  and  left  us 
with  nothing  to  eat  but  raw  turnips.  One  night, 
in  our  search  for  provisions,  we  met  a  party  of 
negroes  burning  charcoal  who  took  us  to  their 
camp  and  sent  out  for  a  supply  of  food.  While 
waiting  a  venerable  "  uncle  "  proposed  to  hold 
a  prayer  meeting.  So  under  the  tall  trees 
and  by  the  light  of  the  smoldering  coal-pits 
the  old  man  prayed  long  and  fervently  to  the 
"  bressed  Lord  and  Massa  Lincoln,"  and 
hearty  amens  echoed  through  the  woods.  Be- 
sides a  few  small  potatoes,  one  dried  goat  ham 
was  all  our  zealous  friends  could  procure. 
The  next  day,  having  made  our  camp  in  the 
secure  depths  of  a  dry  swamp,  we  lighted  the 
only  fire  we  allowed  ourselves  between  Col- 
umbia and  the  mountains.  The  ham,  which 
was  almost  as  light  as  cork,  was  riddled  with 
worm  holes,  and  as  hard  as  a  petrified  sponge. 
We  avoided  the  towns,  and  after  an  end- 
less variety  of  adventures  approached  the 
mountains,  cold,  hungry,  ragged,  and  foot- 
sore. On  the  night  of  December  13  we  were 
grouped  about  a  guide-post,  at  a  fork  in  the 
road,  earnestly  contending  as  to  which  way  we 
should  proceed.  Lieutenant  Sill  was  for  the 
right,  I  was  for  the  left,  and  no  amount  of 
persuasion  could  induce  Lieutenant  Lamson 
to  decide  the  controversy.  I  yielded,  and  we 
turned  to  the  right.    After  walking  a  mile  in 


a  state  of  general  uncertainty  we  came  to  a 
low  white  farm-house  standing  very  near  to 
the  road.  It  was  now  close  upon  midnight 
and  the  windows  were  all  dark,  but  from  a 
house  of  logs,  partly  behind  the  other,  gleamed 
a  bright  light.  Judging  this  to  be  servants' 
quarters,  two  of  us  remained  back  while  Lieu- 
tenant Sill  made  a  cautious  approach.  In 
due  time  a  negro  appeared,  advancing  stealth- 
ily, and,  beckoning  to  my  companion  and  me, 
conducted  us  in  the  shadow  of  a  hedge  to  a 
side  window,  through  which  we  clambered  into 
the  cabin.  We  were  made  very  comfortable  in 
the  glow  of  a  bright  wood  fire.  Sweet  potatoes 
were  already  roasting  in  the  ashes,  and  a  tin 
pot  of  barley  coffee  was  steaming  on  the 
coals.  Rain  and  sleet  had  begun  to  fall, 
and  it  was  decided  that  after  having  been 
warmed  and  refreshed  we  should,  be  con- 
cealed in  the  barn  until  the  following  night. 
Accordingly  we  were  conducted  thither  and 
put  to  bed  upon  a  pile  of  corn-shucks  high 
up  under  the  roof.  Secure  as  this  retreat 
seemed,  it  was  deemed  advisable  in  the  morn- 
ing to  burrow  several  feet  down  in  the  mow, 
so  that  the  children,  if  by  any  chance  they 
should  climb  so  high,  might  romp  unsus- 
pecting over  Our  heads.  We  could  still  look 
out  through  the  cracks  in  the  siding  and  get 
sufficient  light  whereby  to  study  a  map  of 
the  Southern  States,  which  had  been  brought 
us  with  our  breakfast.  A  luxurious  repast  was 
in  preparation,  to  be  eaten  at  the  quarters  be- 
fore starting,  but  a  frolic  being  in  progress,  and 
a  certain  negro  present  of  questionable  fidelity, 
the  banquet  was  transferred  to  the  barn.  The 
great  barn  doors  were  set  open,  and  the  cloth 
was  spread  on  the  floor  by  the  light  of  the 
moon.  Certainly  we  had  partaken  of  no  such 
substantial  fare  within  the  Confederacy.  The 
central  dish  was  a  pork  pie,  flanked  by  savory 
little  patties  of  sausage.  There  were  sweet  pota- 
toes, fleecy  biscuits,  a  jug  of  sorghum,  and  a 
pitcher  of  sweet  milk.  Most  delicious  of  all  was 
a  variety  of  corn-bread,  having  tiny  bits  of  fresh 
pork  baked  in  it,  like  plums  in  a  pudding.1 

Filling  our  haversacks  with  the  fragments, 
we  took  grateful  leave  of  our  sable  benefactors 
and  resumed  our  journey,  retracing  our  steps 
to  the  point  of  disagreement  of  the  evening 
before.    Long  experience  in  night  marching 


1  Major  Sill  contributes  the  following  evidence  of 
the  impression  our  trio  made  upon  one,  at  least,  of  the 
pickaninnies  who  looked  on  in  the  moonlight.  The 
picture  of  Lieutenants  Sill  and  Lamson  which  ap- 
pears on  page  937  was  enlarged  from  a  small  photo- 
graph taken  on  their  arrival  at  Chattanooga,  before 
divesting  themselves  of  the  rags  worn  throughout  the 
long  journey.  Years  afterwards  Major  Sill  gave  one 
of  these  pictures  to  Wallace  Bruce  of  Florida,  now 
United  States  consul  at  Glasgow.  In  the  winter  of 
1888-89  Mr.  Bruce,  at  his  Florida  home,  was  showing 


the  photograph  to  his  family  when  it  caught  the  eye 
of  a  colored  servant,  who  exclaimed:  "O  Massa 
Bruce,  I  know  those  gen'men.  My  father  and  mother 
hid  'em  in  Massa's  barn  at  Pickensville  and  fed  'em ; 
there  was  three  of  'em;  I  saw  'em."  This  servant 
was  a  child  scarcely  ten  years  old  in  1864,  and  could 
only  have  seen  us  while  we  were  eating  our  supper  in 
the  barn  door,  and  that  in  the  uncertain  moonlight.  Yet 
more  than  twenty  years  thereafter  he  greeted  the  pho- 
tograph of  the  ragged  Yankee  officers  with  a  flash  of 
recognition. 


936 


A    HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


had  taught  us  extreme  caution.  We  had  ad- 
vanced along  the  new  road  but  a  short  way 
when  we  were  startled  by  the  barking  of  a 
house  dog.  Apprehending  that  something  was 
moving  in  front  of  us,  we  instantly  withdrew  into 
the  woods.  We  had  scarcely  concealed  our- 
selves when  two  cavalrymen  passed  along,  driv- 
ing before  them  a  prisoner.  Aware  that  it  was 
high  time  to  betake  ourselves  to  the  cross-roads 
and  describe  a  wide  circle  around  the  military 
station  at  Pickensville,  we  first  sought  informa- 
tion. A  ray  of  light  was  visible  from  a  hut  in  the 
woods,  and  believing  from  its  humble  appear- 
ance that  it  sheltered  friends,  my  companions 
lay  down  in  concealment  while  I  advanced  to 
reconnoiter.  I  gained  the  side  of  the  house,  and 
looking  through  a  crack  in  the  boards  saw,  to  my 
horror,  a  soldier  lying  on  his  back  before  the 
fire  and  playing  with  a  dog.  I  stole  back  with 
redoubled  care.  Thoroughly  alarmed  by  the 
dangers  we  had  already  encountered,  we 
decided  to  abandon  the  roads.  Near  mid- 
night of  December  16  we  passed  through  a 
wooden  gate  on  a  level  road  leading  into  the 
forest.  Believing  that  the  lateness  of  the  hour 
would  secure  us  from  further  dangers,  we  re- 
solved to  press  on  with  all  speed,  when  two 
figures  with  lighted  torches  came  suddenly  into 
view.  Knowing  that  we  were  yet  unseen,  we 
turned  into  the  woods  and  concealed  ourselves 
behind  separate  trees  at  no  great  distance  from 
the  path.  Soon  the  advancing  lights  revealed 
two  hunters,  mere  lads,  but  having  at  their 
heels  a  pack  of  mongrel  dogs,  with  which  they 
had  probably  been  pursuing  the  coon  or  the 
possum.  The  boys  would  have  passed  un- 
aware of  our  presence,  but  the  dogs,  scurrying 
along  with  their  noses  in  the  leaves,  soon  struck 
our  trail  and  were  instantly  yelping  about  us. 
We  had  possessed  ourselves  of  the  name  of 
the  commanding  officer  of  the  neighboring 
post  at  Pendleton,  and  advanced  boldly,  repre- 
senting ourselves  to  be  his  soldiers.  "  Then 
where  did  you  get  them  blue  pantaloons  ?  " 
they  demanded,  exchanging  glances,  which 
showed  they  were  not  ignorant  of  our  true 
character.  We  coolly  faced  them  down  and  re- 
sumed our  march  leisurely,  while  the  boys  still 
lingered  undecided.  When  out  of  sight  we 
abandoned  the  road  and  fled  at  the  top  of 
our  speed.  We  had  covered  a  long  distance 
through  forest  and  field  before  we  heard  in 
our  wake  the  faint  yelping  of  the  pack. 
Plunging  into  the  first  stream,  we  dashed  for 
some  distance  along  its  bed.  Emerging  on 
the  opposite  bank,  we  sped  on  through 
marshy  fields,  skirting  high  hills  and  bound- 
ing down  through  dry  watercourses,  over 
shelving  stones  and  accumulated  barriers  of 
driftwood  ;  now  panting  up  a  steep  ascent, 
and  now  resting  for  a  moment  to  rub  our  shoes 


with  the  resinous  needles  of  the  pine ;  always 
within  hearing  of  the  dogs,  whose  fitful  cries 
varied  in  volume  in  accordance  with  the  broken 
conformation  of  the  intervening  country. 
Knowing  that  in  speed  and  endurance  we 
were  no  match  for  our  four-footed  pursuers, 
we  trusted  to  our  precautions  for  throwing 
them  off  the  scent,  mindful  that  they  were  but 
an  ill-bred  kennel  and  the  more  easily  to  be 
disposed#of.  Physically  we  were  capable  of 
prolonged  exertion.  Fainter  and  less  frequent 
came  the  cry  of  the  dogs,  until,  ceasing  alto- 
gether, we  were  assured  of  our  escape. 

At  Oconee,  on  Sunday,  December  18,  we 
met  a  negro  well  acquainted  with  the  roads 
and  passes  into  North  Carolina,  who  furnished 
us  information  by  which  we  traveled  for  two 
nights,  recognizing  on  the  second  objects 
which  by  his  direction  we  avoided,  like  the 
house  of  Black  Bill  McKinney,  and  going 
directly  to  that  of  friendly  old  Tom  Hand- 
cock.  The  first  of  these  two  nights  we  strug- 
gled up  the  foothills  and  outlying  spurs  of 
the  mountains,  through  an  uninhabited  waste 
of  rolling  barrens,  along  an  old  stage  road, 
long  deserted,  and  in  places  impassable  to 
a  saddle  mule.  Lying  down  before  morn- 
ing, high  up  on  the  side  of  the  mountain,  we 
fell  asleep,  to  be  awakened  by  thunder  and 
lightning  and  to  find  torrents  of  hail  and  sleet 
beating  upon  our  blankets.  Chilled  to  the 
bone,  we  ventured  to  build  a  small  fire  in  a 
secluded  place.  After  dark,  and  before  aban- 
doning our  camp,  we  gathered  quantities  of 
wood,  stacking  it  upon  the  fire,  which  when 
we  left  it  was  a  wild  tower  of  flame  lighting 
up  the  whole  mountain  side  in  the  direction 
we  had  come,  and  seeming,  in  some  sort,  to 
atone  for  a  long  succession  of  shivering  days 
in  fireless  bivouac.  We  followed  the  same 
stage  road  through  the  scattering  settlement 
of  Casher's  Valley  in  Jackson  County,  North 
Carolina.  A  little  farther  on,  two  houses,  of 
hewn  logs,  with  verandas  and  green  blinds, 
just  fitted  the  description  we  had  received  of 
the  home  of  old  Tom  Handcock.  Knocking 
boldly  at  the  door  of  the  farther  one,  we  were 
soon  in  the  presence  of  the  loyal  mountaineer. 
He  and  his  wife  had  been  sleeping  on  a  bed 
spread  upon  the  floor  before  the  fire.  Draw- 
ing this  to  one  side,  they  heaped  the  chimney 
with  green  wood  and  were  soon  listening 
with  genuine  delight  to  the  story  of  our 
adventures. 

After  breakfast  next  day,  Tom,  with  his  rifle, 
led  us  by  a  back  road  to  the  house  of  "  'Squire 
Larkin  C.  Hooper,"  a  leading  loyalist,  whom 
we  met  on  the  way,  and  together  we  proceeded 
to  his  house.  Ragged  and  forlorn,  we  were 
eagerly  welcomed  at  his  home  by  Hooper's 
invalid  wife  and  daughters.    For  several  days 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


937 


we  enjoyed  a  hospitality 
given  as  freely  to  utter 
strangers  as  if  we  had  been 
relatives  of  the  family. 

Here  we  learned  of  a 
party  about  to  start  through 
the  mountains  for  East  Ten- 
nessee, guided  by  Emanuel 
Headen,  who  lived  on  the 
crest  of  the  Blue  Ridge. 
Our  friend  Tom  was  to 
be  one  of  the  party,  and 
other  refugees  were  com- 
ing over  the  Georgia  bor- 
der, where  Headen,  better 
known  in  the  settlement  as 
"Man  Heady,"  was  muster- 
ing his  party.  It  now  being 
near  Christmas,  and  the 
'squire's  family  in  daily 
expectation  of  a  relative, 
who  was  a  captain  in  the 
Confederate  army,  it  was 
deemed  prudent  for  us  to 
go  on  to  Headen's  under 
the  guidance  of  Tom.  Set- 
ting out  at  sunset  on  the 
23d  of  December,  it  was 
late  in  the  evening  when  we 
arrived  at  our  destination, 
having  walked  nine  miles 
up  the  mountain  trails  over 
a  light  carpeting  of  snow. 
Pausing  in  front  of  a  diminu- 
tive cabin,  through  the 
chinks  of  whose  stone  fire- 
place and  stick  chimney 
the  whole  interior  seemed 
to  be  red  hot  like  a  furnace, 
our  guide  demanded,  "  Is 
Man  Heady  to  hum?"  Re- 
ceiving a  sharp  negative  in 
reply,  he  continued,  "  Well, 
can  Tom  get  to  stay  all 
night?"  At  this  the  door 
flew  open  and  a  skinny 
womanappeared,her  home- 
spun frock  pendent  with  tow-headed  ur- 
chins. 

"  In  course  you  can,"  she  cried,  leading 
the  way  into  the  cabin.  Never  have  I  seen 
so  unique  a  character  as  this  voluble,  hat- 
chet-faced, tireless  woman.  Her  skin  was 
like  yellow  parchment,  and  I  doubt  if  she 
knew  by  experience  what  it  was  to  be  sick 
or  weary.  She  had  built  the  stake-and-cap 
fences  that  divided  the  fields,  and  she  boasted 
of  the  acres  she  had  plowed.  The  cabin 
was  very  small.  Two  bedsteads,  with  a  nar- 
row alleyway  between,  occupied  half  the  in- 
terior. One  was  heaped  with  rubbish  and  in 
Vol.  XL.— 123. 


LIEUTENANTS     E. 


SILL    AND     A.    T.    LAMSON.        (FROM     A     PHOTOGRAPH    TAKEN     ON 
THEIR    ARRIVAL    AT    CHATTANOOGA.) 

the  other  slept  the  whole  family,  consisting  of 
father,  mother,  a  daughter  of  sixteen,  and  two 
little  boys.  When  I  add  that  the  room  con- 
tained a  massive  timber  loom,  a  table,  a 
spinning  wheel,  and  a  variety  of  rude  seats, 
it  will  be  understood  that  we  were  crowded 
uncomfortably  close  to  the  fire.  Shrinking  back 
as  far  as  possible  from  the  blaze,  we  lis- 
tened in  amused  wonder  to  the  tongue  of  this 
seemingly  untamed  virago,  who,  nevertheless, 
proved  to  be  the  kindest-hearted  of  women. 
She  cursed,  in  her  high-pitched  tones,  for  a 
pack  of  fools,  the  men  who  had  brought  on 
the  war.    Roderic   Norton,  who  lived  down 


93« 


A   HARD  ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


the  mountain,  she  expressed  a  profane  desire 
to  "stomp  through  the  turnpike"  because  at 
some  time  he  had  stolen  one  of  her  hogs, 
marked,  as  to  the  ear,  with  "  two  smooth  craps 
an'  a  slit  in  the  left."  Once  only  she  had  jour- 
neyed into  the  low  country,  where  she  had 
seen  those  twin  marvels,  steam  cars  and  brick 
chimneys.    On  this  occasion  she  had  driven  a 


WE    ARRIVE    AT    HEADEN  S. 


heifer  to  market,  making  a  journey  of  forty 
miles,  walking  beside  her  horse  and  wagon, 
which  she  took  along  to  bring  back  the  corn- 
meal  received  in  payment  for  the  animal. 
Charged  by  her  husband  to  bring  back  the 
heifer  bell,  and  being  denied  that  musical  in- 
strument by  the  purchaser,  it  immediately 
assumed  more  importance  to  h<Sr  mind  than 
horse,  wagon,  and  corn-meal.  Baffled  at  first, 
she  proceeded  to  the  pasture  in  the  gray  of 
the  morning,  cornered  the  cow  and  cut  off 
the  bell,  and,  in  her  own  picturesque  language, 
"  walked  through  the  streets  of  Walhalla  cuss- 
in'."  Rising  at  midnight  she  would  fall  to 
spinning  with  all  her  energy.  To  us,  waked 
from  sleep  on  the  floor  by  the  humming  of  the 
wheel,  she  seemed  by  the  light  of  the  low  fire 
like  a  witch  in  a  sun-bonnet,  darting  forward 
and  back. 

We  remained  there  several  days,  sometimes 
at  the  cabin  and  sometimes  at  a  cavern  in  the 
rocks  such  as  abound  throughout  the  moun- 
tains, and  which  are  called  by  the  natives  "rock 
houses."  Many  of  the  men  at  that  time  were 
"  outliers  " — that  is,  they  camped  in  the  moun- 
tain fastnesses,  receiving  their  food  from  some 
member  of  the  family.    Some  of  these  men,  as 


now,  had  their  copper  stills  in  the  rock  houses, 
while  others,  more  wary  of  the  recruiting  ser- 
geant, wandered  from  point  to  point,  their  only 
furniture  a  rifle  and  a  bedquilt.  On  December 
29,  we  were  joined  at  the  cavern  by  Lieu- 
tenant Knapp  and  Captain  Smith,  Federal 
officers,  who  had  also  made  their  way  from 
Columbia,  and  by  three  refugees  from  Georgia, 

whom  I  remember 
as  Old  Man  Tigue 
and  the  two  Vin- 
cent boys.  During 
the  night  our  party 
was  to  start  across 
the  mountains  for 
Tennessee.  Tom 
Handcock  was  mo- 
mentarily expected 
to  join  us.  Our 
guide  was  busy 
with  preparations 
for  the  journey. 
The  night  coming 
on  icy  cold,  and  a 
cutting  wind  driv- 
ing the  smoke  of 
the  fire  into  our 
granite  house,  we 
abandoned  it  at 
nine  o'clock  and 
descended  to  the 
cabin.  Headenand 
his  wife  had  gone 
to  the  mill  for  a 
supply  of  corn-meal.  Although  it  was  time  for 
their  return,  we  were  in  no  wise  alarmed  by  their 
absence,  and  formed  a  jovial  circle  about  the 
roaring  chimney.  About  midnight  came  a  rap 
on  the  door.  Thinking  it  was  Tom  Handcock 
and  some  of  his  companions,  I  threw  it  open  with 
an  eager  "  Come  in,  boys  ! "  The  boys  began  to 
come  in,  stamping  the  snow  from  their  boots 
and  rattling  their  muskets  on  the  floor,  until  the 
house  was  full,  and  yet  others  were  on  guard 
without  and  crowding  the  porch.  "  Man 
Heady  "  and  his  wife  were  already  prisoners 
at  the  mill,  and  the  house  had  been  picketed 
for  some  hours  awaiting  the  arrival  of  the  other 
refugees,  who  had  discovered  the  plot  just 
in  time  to  keep  out  of  the  toils.  Marshaled 
in  some  semblance  of  military  array,  we  were 
marched  down  the  mountain,  over  the  frozen 
ground,  to  the  house  of  old  Roderic  Norton. 
The  Yankee  officers  were  sent  to  an  upper 
room,  while  the  refugees  were  guarded  below, 
under  the  immediate  eyes  of  the.  soldiery. 
Making  the  best  of  our  misfortune,  our  origi- 
nal trio  bounced  promptly  into  a  warm  bed, 
which  had  been  recently  deserted  by  some 
members  of  the  family,  and  secured  a  good 
night's  rest. 


A    HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


939 


Lie  utenant 
Knapp,  who  had 
imprudently  in- 
dulged in  frozen 
chestnuts  on  the 
mountain  side,  was 
attacked  with  vio- 
lent cramps,  and 
kept  the  house- 
hold below  stairs 
in  commotion  all 
night  humanely 
endeavoring  to  as- 
suage his  agony. 
In  the  morning, 
although  quite  re- 
covered, he  cun- 
ningly feigned  a 
continuance  of  his 
pains,  and  was  left 
behind  in  the  keep- 
ing of  two  guards, 
who  having  no  sus- 
picion of  his  deep 
designs  left  their 
guns  in  the  house 
and  went  out  to 
the  spring  to  wash. 
Knapp,  instantly 
on  the  alert,  pos- 
sessed himself  of 
the  muskets,  and 
breaking  the  lock 
of  one,  by  a  power- 
ful effort  he  bent 
the  barrel  of  the 
other,  and  dashed 
out  through  the 
garden.  His  keep- 
ers, returning  from 
the  spring,  shouted 

and  rushed  indoors  only  to  find  their  disabled 
pieces.  They  joined  our  party  later  in  the  day, 
rendering  a  chap  fallen  account  of  their  de- 
tached service. 

We  had  but  a  moderate  march  to  make  to 
the  headquarters  of  the  battalion,  where  we 
were  to  spend  the  night.  Our  guards  we  found 
kindly  disposed  towards  us,  but  bitterly  up- 
braiding the  refugees,  whom  they  saluted  by 
the  ancient  name  of  Tories.  Lieutenant  Cog- 
dill,  in  command  of  the  expedition,  privately 
informed  us  that  his  sympathies  were  entirely 
ours,  but  as  a  matter  of  duty  he  should  guard 
us  jealously  while  under  his  military  charge. 
If  we  could  effect  our  escape  thereafter  we 
had  only  to  come  to  his  mountain  home  and 
he  would  conceal  us  until  such  time  as  he 
could  despatch  us  with  safety  over  the  borders. 
These  mountain  soldiers  were  mostly  of  two 
classes,  both  opposed  to  the  war,  but  doing 


THE    ESCAPE    OF     HEADEN. 


home-guard  duty  in  lieu  of  sterner  service  in 
the  field.  Numbers  were  of  the  outlier  class, 
who,  wearied  of  continual  hiding  in  the  lau- 
rel brakes,  had  embraced  this  service  as  a  com- 
promise. Many  were  deserters,  some  of  whom 
had  coolly  set  at  defiance  the  terms  of  their 
furloughs,  while  others  had  abandoned  the 
camps  in  Virginia,  and,  versed  in  mountain 
craft,  had  made  their  way  along  the  Blue 
Ridge  and  put  in  a  heroic  appearance  in  their 
native  valleys. 

That  night  we  arrived  at  a  farm-house  near 
the  river,  where  we  found  Major  Parker,  com- 
manding the  battalion,  with  a  small  detach- 
ment, billeted  upon  the  family.  The  farmer 
was  a  gray-haired  old  loyalist,  whom  I  shall 
always  remember,  leaning  on  his  staff  in  the 
middle  of  the  kitchen,  barred  out  from  his 
place  in  the  chimney-corner  by  the  noisy  cir- 
cle of  his  unbidden  guests.    Major  Parker  was 


94-0 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


a  brisk  little  man,  clad  in  brindle  jeans  of  an-  to  be  in  the  sunniest  of  spirits.     No  sign  of 

cient    cut,    resplendent    with    brass    buttons,  commotion  was    visible.     "  Step    out  to    the 

Two  small  piercing  eyes,  deep-set  beside  a  branch,  gentlemen;  your  parole  of  honor  is 

hawk's-beak  nose,  twinkled  from  under  the  rim  sufficient;   you  '11  find  towels — been  a  pris- 

of  his  brown  straw  hat,  whose  crown  was  de-  oner  myself."    And  he  restrained  by  a  sign 

fiantly  surmounted  by  a  cock's  feather.    But  he  the  sentinel  who  would  have  accompanied  us. 

was  exceedingly  jolly  withal  and  welcomed  the  At  the  branch,  in  the  yard,  we  found  the  other 

Yankees  with  pompous  good  humor,  despatch-  refugees  trembling  for  their  fate,  and  learned 

ing  a  sergeant  for  a  jug  of  apple-jack,  which  that  Headen  had  gone  to  the  orchard  in  the 

was  doubtless  as  inexpensive  to  the  major  as  charge  of  a  file  of  soldiers  with  a  rope.  While  we 

his  other  hospitality.    Having  been  a  prisoner  were  discussing  the  situation  and  endeavoring 


at  Chicago,  he 
prided  himself 
on  his  know- 
ledge of  dun- 
geon etiquette 
and  the  military 
courtesies  due 
to  our  rank. 


r~i_ 


to  calm  the  apprehensions 
of  the  Georgians  the  execu- 
tioners returned  from  the 
orchard,  our  guide  march- 
ing in  advance  and  looking 
none  the  worse  for  the 
rough  handling  he  had  un- 
dergone. The  brave  fellow 
had  confided  his  last  mes- 
sage and  been  thrice  drawn 
up  towards  the  branch  of  an 
apple  tree,  and  as  many 
times  lowered  for  the  in- 
formation it  was  supposed 
he  would  give.  Nothing 
was  learned,  and  it  is  probable  he  had 
no  secrets  to  disclose  or  conceal. 

Lieutenant  Cogdill,  with  two  soldiers, 
was  detailed  to  conduct  us  to  Qualla- 
town,  a  Cherokee  station  at  the  foot 
of  the  Great  Smoky  Mountains.  Two 
horses  were  allotted  to  the  guard,  and 
we  set  out  in  military  order,  the  refu- 
gees two  and  two  in  advance,  Headen 
and  Old  Man  Tigue  lashed  together  by 
the  wrists,  and  the  rear  brought  up  by 
the  troopers  on  horseback.  It  was  the 
last  day  of  the  year,  and  although  a 
winter  morning,  the  rare  mountain  air 
was  as  soft  as  spring.  We  struck  the 
banks  of  the  Tuckasegee  directly  op- 
posite to  a  feathery  waterfall,  which,  leap- 
ing over  a  crag  of  the  opposite  cliff,  was 
dissipated  in  a  glittering  sheet  of  spray 
before  reaching  the  tops  of  the  trees 
below.  As  the  morning  advanced  we  fell 
We  were  awakened  in  the  morning  by  high-  into  a  more  negligent  order  of  marching.  The 
pitched  voices  in  the  room  below.  Lieutenant  beautiful  river,  a  wide,  swift  current,  flowing 
Sill  and  I  had  passed  the  night  in  neighboring    smoothly  between  thickly  wooded  banks,  swept 


i Jm/^ 

/^'l/i,  1 


\U-Hv>i 


GREENVILLE    JAIL. 


caverns  of  the  same  miraculous  feather-bed. 
We  recognized  the  voice  of  the  major,  inform- 
ing some  culprit  that  he  had  just  ten  minutes  to 
live,  and  that  if  he  wished  to  send  any  dying 
message  to  his  wife  or  children  then  and  there 


by  on  our  left,  and  on  the  right  wild,  unin- 
habited mountains  closed  in  the  road.  The 
two  Vincents  were  strolling  along  far  in  ad- 
vance. Some  distance  behind  them  were 
Headen  and  Tigue ;  the  remainder  of  us  fol- 


was  his  last  opportunity ;  and  then  followed  lowing  in  a  general  group,  Sill  mounted  beside 

the  tramping  of  the  guards  as  they  retired  from  one  of  the  guards.    Advancing  in  this  order, 

his  presence  with  their  victim.    Hastily  dress-  a  cry  from  the  front  broke  on  the  stillness  of 

ing,  we  hurried  down  to  find  what  was  the  the  woods,  and  we  beheld   Old  Man  Tigue 

matter.     We  were   welcomed  with  a   cheery  gesticulating  wildly  in  the  center  of  the  road 

good  morning  from  the  major,  who  seemed  and  screaming,  "  He  's  gone !    He  's  gone ! 


A   HARD  ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


941 


Catch  him ! "  Sure  enough  the  old  man  was 
alone,  the  fragment  of  the  parted  strap  dan- 
gling from  his  outstretched  wrist.  The  guard, 
who  was  mounted,  dashed  off  in  pursuit,  fol- 
lowed by  the  lieutenant  on  foot,  but  both 
soon  returned,  giving  over  the  hopeless  chase. 
Thoroughly  frightened  by  the  events  of  the 
morning,  Headen 1  had  watched  his  opportunity 
to  make  good  his  escape,  and  as  we  afterwards 
learned,  joined  by  Knapp  and  Tom  Handcock, 
he  conducted  a  party  safely  to  Tennessee. 

At  Webster,  the  court  town  of  Jackson 
County,  we  were  quartered  for  the  night  in 
the  jail,  but  accompanied  Lieutenant  Cogdill 
to  a  venison  breakfast  at  the  parsonage  with  Mrs. 
Harris  and  her  daughter,  who  had  called  on  us 
the  evening  before.  Snow  had  fallen  during  the 
night,  and  when  we  continued  our  march  it  was 
with  the  half-frozen  slush  crushing  in  and  out,  at 
every  step,  through  our  broken  shoes.  Before 
the  close  of  this  dreary  New  Year's  day  we 
came  upon  the  scene  of  one  of  those  wild  trag- 
edies which  are  still  of  too  frequent  occurrence 
in  those  remote  regions,  isolated  from  the  strong 
arm  of  the  law.  Our  road  led  down  and  around 
the  mountain  side,  which  on  our  right  was  a 
barren,  rocky  waste,  sloping  gradually  up  from 
the  inner  curve  of  the  arc  we  were  describing. 
From  this  direction  arose  a  low  wailing  sound, 
and  a  little  farther  on  we  came  in  view  of  a 
dismal  group  of  men,  women,  and  mules.  In 
the  center  of  the  gathering  lay  the  lifeless  re- 
mains of  a  father  and  his  two  sons;  seated 
upon  the  ground,  swaying  and  weeping  over 
their  dead,  were  the  mother  and  wives  of  the 
young  men.  A  burial  party,  armed  with  spades 
and  picks,  waited  by  their  mules,  while  at  a 
respectful  distance  from  the  mourners  stood 
a  circle  of  neighbors  and  passers-by,  some  gaz- 
ing in  silent  sympathy,  and  others  not  hesi- 
tating to  express  a  quiet  approval  of  the 
shocking  tragedy.  Between  two  families,  the 
Hoopers  and  the  Watsons,  a  bitter  feud  had 
long  existed,  and  from  time  to  time  men  of 
each  clan  had  fallen  by  the  rifles  of  the  other. 
The  Hoopers  were  loyal  Union  men,  and  if 
the  Watsons  yielded  any  loyalty  it  was  to  the 
State  of  North  Carolina.  On  one  occasion 
shortly  before  the  final  tragedy,  when  one  of 
the  young  Hoopers  was  sitting  quietly  in  his 
door,  a  light  puffof  smoke  rose  from  the  bushes 
and  a  rifle  ball  plowed  through  his  leg.  The 
Hoopers  resolved  to  begin  the  new  year  by 
wiping  out  their  enemies,  root  and  branch. 
Before  light  they  had  surrounded  the  log  cabin 
of  the  Watsons  and  secured  all  the  male  in- 


mates, except  one  who,  wounded,  escaped 
through  a  window.  The  latter  afterwards  exe- 
cuted a  singular  revenge,  by  killing  and  skin- 
ning the  dog  of  his  enemies  and  elevating  the 
carcass  on  a  pole  in  front  of  their  house. 

After  a  brief  stay  at  Quallatown  we  set  out  for 
Asheville,  leaving  behind  our  old  and  friendly 
guard.  Besides  the  soldiers  who  now  had  us 
in  charge,  a  Cherokee  Indian  was  allotted  to 
each  prisoner,  with  instructions  to  keep  his 
man  constantly  in  view.  To  travel  with  an 
armed  Indian,  sullen  and  silent,  trotting  at 
your  heels  like  a  dog,  with  very  explicit  in- 
structions to  blow  out  your  brains  at  the  first 
attempt  to  escape,  is  neither  cheerful  nor  or- 
namental, and  we  were  a  sorry  looking  party 
plodding  silently  along  the  road.  Detachments 
of  prisoners  were  frequently  passed  over  this 
route,  and  regular  stopping-places  were  estab- 
lished for  the  nights.  It  was  growing  dusk 
when  we  arrived  at  the  first  cantonment,  which 
was  the  wing  of  a  great  barren  farm-house 
owned  by  Colonel  Bryson.  The  place  was 
already  occupied  by  a  party  of  refugees,  and 
we  were  directed  to  a  barn  in  the  field  beyond. 
We  had  brought  with  us  uncooked  rations, 
and  while  two  of  the  soldiers  went  into  the 
house  for  cooking  utensils,  the  rest  of  the  party, 
including  the  Indians,  were  leaning  in  a  line 
upon  the  dooryard  fence;  Sill  and  Lamson 
were  at  the  end  of  the  line,  where  the  fence 
cornered  with  a  hedge.  Presently  the  two 
soldiers  reappeared,  one  of  them  with  an  iron 
pot  in  which  to  cook  our  meat,  and  the  other 
swinging  in  his  hand  a  burning  brand.  In  the 
wake  of  these  guides  we  followed  down  to  the 
barn,  and  had  already  started  a  fire  when  word 
came  from  the  house  that  for  fear  of  rain  we 
had  best  return  to  the  corn-barn.  It  was  not 
until  we  were  again  in  the  road  that  I  noticed 
the  absence  of  Sill  and  Lamson.  I  hastened 
to  Smith  and  confided  the  good  news.  The 
fugitives  were  missed  almost  simultaneously 
by  the  guards,  who  first  beat  up  the  vicinity 
of  the  barn,  and  then,  after  securing  the  re- 
mainder of  us  in  a  corn-crib,  sent  out  the  In- 
dians in  pursuit.  Faithful  dogs,  as  these  Chero- 
keeshad  shown  themselves  during  the  day,  they 
proved  but  poor  hunters  when  the  game  was 
in  the  bush,  and  soon  returned,  giving  over  the 
chase.  Half  an  hour  later  they  were  all  back 
in  camp,  baking  their  hoecake  in  genuine 
aboriginal  fashion,  flattened  on  the  surface  of 
a  board  and  inclined  to  the  heat  of  the  fire.2 

That  I  was  eager  to  follow  goes  without 
saying,  but  our  keepers  had  learned  our  slip- 


1  A  short  time  ago  the  writer  received  the  following  taken  as  prisoner,  has  been  dead  for  years.    Old  Tom 
letter:    "  Casher's  Valley,  May  28,  1890.    Old  Man-  Handcock  is  dead.— W.  R.  Hooper." 
uel  Headen  and  wife  are  living,  but  separated.    Julia  2  Sill  and  Lamson  reached  Loudon,  Tennessee,  in 
Ann  is  living  with  her  mother.    The  old  lady  is  blind.  February.    A  few  days  after  their  escape  from  the  In- 
Old  man  Norton  (Roderic),  to  whose  house  you  were  dian  guard  they  arrived  at  the  house  of  "  Shooting  John 

Vol.  XL.—  124. 


94: 


A   HARD  ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


pery  character.  All  the  way  to  Asheville,  day 
and  night,  we  were  watched  with  sleepless  vigi- 
lance. There  we  gave  our  parole,  Smith  and 
I,  and  secured  thereby  comfortable  quarters  in 
the  court-house,  with  freedom  to  stroll  about 
the  town.  Old  Man  Tigue  and  the  Vincents 
were  committed  to  the  county  jail.  We  were 
there  a  week,  part  of  my  spare  time  being  em- 
ployed in  helping  a  Confederate  company  of- 
ficer make  out  a  correct  pay-roll. 

When  our  diminished  ranks  had  been  re- 
cruited by  four  more  officers  from  Columbia, 
who  had  been  captured  near  the  frozen  sum- 
mit of  the  Great  Smoky  Mountains,  we  were 
started  on  a  journey  of  sixty  miles  to  Green- 
ville in  South  Carolina.  The  night  before  our 
arrival  we  were  quartered  at  a  large  farm-house. 
The  prisoners,  together  with  the  privates  of 
the  guard,  were  allotted  a  comfortable  room, 
which  contained,  however,  but  a  single  bed. 
The  officer  in  charge  had  retired  to  enjoy 
the  hospitality  of  the  family.  A  flock  of  enor- 
mous white  pullets  were  roosting  in  the  yard. 
Procuring  an  iron  kettle  from  the  servants,  who 
looked  with  grinning  approval  upon  all  forms 
of  chicken  stealing,  we  sallied  forth  to  the  cap- 
ture. Twisting  the  precious  necks  of  half  a 
dozen,  we  left  them  to  die  in  the  grass  while 
we  pierced  the  side  of  a  sweet-potato  mound. 
Loaded  with  our  booty  we  retreated  to  the  house 
undiscovered,  and  spent  the  night  in  cooking 
in  one  pot  instead  of  sleeping  in  one  bed.  The 
fowls  were  skinned  instead  of  plucked,  and,  van- 
dals that  we  were,  dressed  on  the  backs  of  the 
picture  frames,  taken  down  from  the  walls. 

At  Greenville  we  were  lodged  in  the  county 
jail  to  await  the  reconstruction  of  railway 
bridges,  when  we  were  to  be  transported  to 
Columbia.  The  jail  was  a  stone  structure, 
two  stories  in  height,  with  halls  through  the 
center  on  both  floors  and  square  rooms  on 
each  side.  The  lock  was  turned  on  our 
little  party  of  six  in  one  of  these  upper  rooms, 
having  two  grated  windows  looking  down  on 
the  walk.  Through  the  door  which  opened 
on  the  hall  a  square  hole  was  cut  as  high 
as  one's  face  and  large  enough  to  admit  the 
passage  of  a  plate.  Aside  from  the  rigor  of 
our  confinement  we  were  treated  with  marked 
kindness.  We  had  scarcely  walked  about  our 
dungeon  before  the  jailer's  daughters  were  at 
the  door  with  their  autograph  albums.  In  a 
few  days  we  were  playing  draughts  and  read- 
ing Bulwer,  while  the  girls,  without,  were 
preparing  our  food  and  knitting  for  us  warm 
new  stockings.    Notwithstanding  all  these  at- 

Brown,"  who  confided  them  to  the  care  of  the  young 
Hoopers  and  a  party  of  their  outlying  companions. 
From  a  rocky  cliff  overlooking  the  valley  of  the  Tuck- 
asegee  they  could  look  down  on  the  river  roads  dotted 
with  the  sheriff's  posse  in  pursuit  of  the  Hoopers.  So 
near    were    they  that   they  could   distinguish  a  rela- 


tentions,  we  were  ungratefully  discontented. 
At  the  end  of  the  first  week  we  were  joined 
by  seven  enlisted  men,  Ohio  boys,  who  like 
ourselves  had  been  found  at  large  in  the 
mountains.  From  one  of  these  new  arrivals 
we  procured  a  case-knife  and  a  gun  screw- 
driver. Down  on  the  hearth  before  the  fire 
the  screwdriver  was  placed  on  the  thick  edge 
of  the  knife  and  belabored  with  a  beef  bone 
until  a  few  inches  of  its  back  were  converted 
into  a  rude  saw.  The  grate  in  the  window 
was  formed  of  cast-iron  bars,  passing  perpen- 
dicularly through  wrought-iron  plates,  bedded 
in  the  stone  jambs.  If  one  of  these  perpen- 
dicular bars,  an  inch  and  a  half  square,  could 
be  cut  through,  the  plates  might  be  easily 
bent  so  as  to  permit  the  egress  of  a  man. 
With  this  end  in  view  we  cautiously  began 
operations.  Outside  of  the  bars  a  piece  of  car- 
pet had  been  stretched  to  keep  out  the  raw 
wind,  and  behind  this  we  worked  with  safety. 
An  hour's  toil  produced  but  a  few  feathery  fil- 
ings on  the  horizontal  plate,  but  many  hands 
make  light  work,  and  steadily  the  cut  grew 
deeper.  We  recalled  the  adventures  of  Claude 
Duval,  Dick  Turpin,  and  Sixteen-string  Jack, 
and  sawed  away.  During  the  available  hours 
of  three  days  and  throughout  one  entire  night 
the  blade  of  steel  was  worrying,  rasping,  eat- 
ing the  iron  bar.  At  last  the  grosser  yielded 
to  the  temper  and  persistence  of  the  finer 
metal.  It  was  Saturday  night  when  the  toil- 
some cut  was  completed,  and  preparations 
were  already  under  way  for  a  speedy  depart- 
ure. The  jail  had  always  been  regarded  as  too 
secure  to  require  a  military  guard,  although 
soldiers  were  quartered  in  the  town ;  besides, 
the  night  was  so  cold  that  a  crust  had  formed 
on  the  snow,  and  both  citizens  and  soldiers, 
unused  to  such  extreme  weather,  would  be 
likely  to  remain  indoors.  For  greater  secrecy 
of  movement,  we  divided  into  small  parties, 
aiming  to  traverse  different  roads.  I  was  to  go 
with  my  former  companion,  Captain  Smith. 
Lots  were  cast  to  determine  the  order  of  our 
going.  First  exit  was  allotted  to  four  of  the 
Ohio  soldiers.  Made  fast  to  the  grating  out- 
side were  a  bit  of  rope  and  strip  of  blankets, 
along  which  to  descend.  Our  room  was  imme- 
diately over  that  of  the  jailer  and  his  sleeping 
family,  and  beneath  our  opening  was  a  win- 
dow, which  each  man  must  pass  in  his  descent. 
At  eleven  o'clock  the  exodus  began.  The  first 
man  was  passed  through  the  bars  amid  a  sup- 
pressed buzz  of  whispered  cautions.  His  boots 
were  handed  after  him  in  a  haversack.    The 

tive  of  the  Watsons  leading  the  sheriff's  party.  One 
of  the  Hooper  boys,  with  characteristic  recklessness 
and  to  the  consternation  of  the  others,  stood  boldly 
out  on  a  great  rock  in  plain  sight  of  his  pursuers  (if 
they  had  chanced  to  look  up),  half  resolved  to  try  his 
rifle  at  the  last  of  the  Watsons. 


A   HARD  ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


943 


rest  of  us,  pressing  our  faces  to  the  frosty  grat- 
ing, listened  breathlessly  for  the  success  of  the 
movement  we  could  no  longer  see.  Suddenly 
there  was  a  crash,  and  in  the  midst  of  mut- 
terings  of  anger  we  snatched  in  the  rag  lad- 
der and  restored  the  piece  of  carpeting  to  its 
place  outside  the  bars.  Our  pioneer  had  hurt 
his  hand  against  the  rough  stones,  and,  flounder- 
ing in  mid-air,  had  dashed  his  leg  through  sash 
and  glass  of  the  window  below.  We  could 
see  nothing  of  his  further  movements,  but  soon 
discovered  the  jailer  standing  in  the  door,  look- 
ing up  and  down  the  street,  seemingly  in  the 
dark  as  to  where  the  crash  came  from.  At  last, 
wearied  and  worried  and  disappointed,  we  lay 
down  in  our  blankets  upon  the  hard  floor. 

At  daylight  we  were  awakened  by  the  voice 
of  Miss  Emma  at  the  hole  in  the  door.  "  Who 
got  out  last  night  ?  "  "  Welty."  "  Well,  you 
was  fools  you  did  n't  all  go ;  pap  would  n't  'a' 
stopped  you.  If  you  '11  keep  the  break  concealed 
until  night  we  '11  let  you  all  out."  The  secret 
of  the  extreme  kindness  of  our  keepers  was  ex- 
plained. The  jailer,  a  loyalist,  retained  his  posi- 
tion as  a  civil  detail,  thus  protecting  himself  and 
sons  from  conscription.  Welty  had  been  taken 
in  the  night  before,his  bruises  had  beenanointed, 
and  he  had  been  provisioned  for  the  journey. 
•  We  spent  the  day  repairing  our  clothing 
and  preparing  for  the  road.  My  long-heeled 
cowhides,  "  wife's  shoes,"  for  which  I  had 
exchanged  a  uniform  waistcoat  with  a  cotton- 
wooled  old  darky  on  the  banks  of  the  Sa- 
luda, were  about  parting  soles  from  uppers, 
and  I  kept  the  twain  together  by  winding  my 
feet  with  stout  cords.  At  supper  an  extra  ra- 
tion was  given  us.  As  soon  as  it  was  dark  the 
old  jailer  appeared  among  us  and  gave  us 
a  minute  description  of  the  different  roads 
leading  west  into  the  mountains,  warning  us  of 
certain  dangers.  At  eleven  o'clock  Miss  Emma 
came  with  the  great  keys,  and  we  followed 
her,  in  single  file,  down  the  stairs  and  out  into 
the  back  yard  of  the  jail.  From  the  broken 
gratings  in  front,  the  bit  of  rope  and  strips  of 
blanket  were  left  dangling  in  the  wind. 

We  made  short  work  of  leave-taking,  Cap- 
tain Smith  and  I  separating  immediately  from 
the  rest,  and  pushing  hurriedly  out  of  the  sleep- 
ing town,  by  back  streets,  into  the  bitter  cold 
of  the  country  roads.  We  stopped  once  to 
warm  at  the  pits  of  some  negro  charcoal 
burners,  and  before  day  dawned  had  traveled 
sixteen  miles.  We  found  a  sheltered  nook  on 
the  side  of  the  mountain  open  to  the  sun, 
where  we  made  a  bed  of  dry  leaves  and  re- 
mained for  the  day.  At  night  we  set  out  again, 
due  west  by  the  stars,  but  before  we  had  gone 
far  my  companion,  who  claimed  to  know  some- 
thing of  the  country,  insisted  upon  going  to 
the  left,  and  within  a  mile  turned  into  another 


left-hand  road.  I  protested,  claiming  that  this 
course  was  leading  us  back.  While  we  were 
yet  contending  we  came  to  a  bridgeless  creek 
whose  dark  waters  barred  our  progress,  and  at 
the  same  moment,  as  if  induced  by  the  thought 
of  the  fording,  the  captain-  was  seized  with 
rheumatic  pains  in  his  knees,  so  that  he  walked 
with  difficulty.  We  had  just  passed  a  house 
where  lights  were  still  showing,  and  to  this  we 
decided  to  return,  hoping  at  least  to  find  shel- 
ter for  Smith.  Leaving  him  at  the  gate,  I  went 
to  a  side  porch  and  knocked  at  the  door,  which 
was  opened  by  a  woman  who  proved  to  be 
friendly  to  our  cause,  her  husband  being  in 
the  rebel  army  much  against  his  will.  We 
were  soon  seated  to  the  right  and  left  of  her 
fireplace.  Blazing  pine  knots  brilliantly  lighted 
the  room,  and  a  number  of  beds  lined  the  walls. 
A  trundle-bed  before  the  fire  was  occupied  by 
a  very  old  woman,  who  was  feebly  moaning 
with  rheumatism.  Our  hostess  shouted  into 
the  old  lady's  ear,  "  Granny,  them  's  Yan- 
kees." "  Be  they !  "  said  she,  peering  at  us  with 
her  poor  old  eyes.  "  Be  ye  sellin'  tablecloths  ?  " 
When  it  was  explained  that  we  were  just  from 
the  war,  she  demanded,  in  an  absent  way,  to 
know  if  we  were  Britishers.  We  slept  in  one 
of  the  comfortable  beds,  and  as  a  measure  of 
prudence  passed  the  day  in  the  woods,  leaving 
at  nightfall  with  well-filled  haversacks.  Captain 
Smith  was  again  the  victim  of  his  rheumatism, 
and  directing  me  to  his  friends  at  Csesar's  Head, 
where  I  was  to  wait  for  him  until  Monday  (it 
then  being  Tuesday),  he  returned  to  the  house, 
little  thinking  that  we  were  separating  forever. 
I  traveled  very  rapidly  all  night,  hoping  to 
make  the  whole  distance,  but  day  was  break- 
ing when  I  reached  the  head  waters  of  the  Sa- 
luda. Following  up  the  stream  I  found  a  dam 
on  which  I  crossed,  and  although  the  sun  was 
rising  and  the  voices  of  children  mingled  with 
the  lowing  of  cattle  in  the  frosty  air,  I  ran 
across  the  fields  and  gained  a  secure  hiding- 
place  on  the  side  of  the  mountain.  It  was 
a  long,  solitary  day,  and  glad  was  I  when 
it  grew  sufficiently  dark  to  turn  the  little  set- 
tlement and  get  into  the  main  road  up  the 
mountain.  It  was  six  zigzag  miles  to  the  top, 
the  road  turning  on  log  abutments,  well  an- 
chored with  stones,  and  not  a  habitation  on  the 
way  until  I  should  reach  Bishop's  house,  on 
the  crest  of  the  divide.  Half  way  up  I  paused 
before  a  big  summer  hotel,  looming  up  in  the 
woods  like  the  ghost  of  a  deserted  factory, 
its  broken  windows  and  rotting  gateways  re- 
doubling the  solitude  of  the  bleak  mountain 
side.  Shortly  before  reaching  Bishop's,  "wife's 
shoes  "  became  quite  unmanageable.  One  had 
climbed  up  my  leg  half  way  to  the  knee,  and  I 
knocked  at  the  door  with  the  wreck  of  the  other 
in  my  hand.    My  visit  had  been  preceded  but  a 


944 


A   HARD  ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


day  by  a  squad  of  partisan  raiders,  who  had  car- 
ried away  the  bedding  and  driven  off  the  cattle 
of  my  new  friends,  and  for  this  reason  the  most 
generous  hospitality  could  offer  no  better  couch 
than  the  hard  floor.  Stretched  thereon  in  close 
proximity  to  the  dying  fire,  the  cold  air  coming 
up  through  the  wide  cracks  between  the  hewn 
planks  seemed  to  be  cutting  me  in  sections  as 
with  icy  saws,  so  that  I  was  forced  to  establish 
myself  lengthwise  of  a  broad  puncheon  at  the 
side  of  the  room  and  under  the  table. 

In  this  family  "  the  gray  mare  was  the  better 
horse,"  and  poor  Bishop,  an  inoffensive  man, 
and  a  cripple  withal,  was  wedded  to  a  regular 
Xantippe.  It  was  evident  that  unpleasant 
thoughts  were  dominant  in  the  woman's  mind 
as  she  proceeded  sullenly  and  vigorously  with 
preparations  for  breakfast.  The  bitter  bread  of 
charity  was  being  prepared  with  a  vengeance  for 
the  unwelcome  guest.  Premonitions  of  the  com- 
ing storm  flashed  now  and  then  in  lightning  cuffs 
on  the  ears  of  the  children,  or  crashed  venom- 
ously among  the  pottery  in  the  fireplace.  At 
last  the  repast  was  spread,  the  table  still  stand- 
ing against  the  wall,  as  is  the  custom  among 
mountain  housewives.  The  good-natured  hus- 
band now  advanced  cheerfully  to  lend  a  hand 
in  removing  it  into  the  middle  of  the  room. 
It  was  when  one  of  the  table  legs  overturned 
the  swill-pail  that  the  long  pent-up  storm 
burst  in  a  torrent  of  invective.  The  prospect 
of  spending  several  days  here  was  a  very  gloomy 
outlook,  and  the  relief  was  great  when  it  was 
proposed  to  pay  a  visit  to  Neighbor  Case, 
whose  house  was  in  the  nearest  valley,  and  with 
whose  sons  Captain  Smith  had  lain  in  conceal- 
ment for  some  weeks  on  a  former  visit  to  the 
mountains.  I  was  curious  to  see  his  sons,  who 
were  famous  outliers.  From  safe  cover  they 
delighted  to  pick  off  a  recruiting  officer  or  a  tax- 
in-kind  collector,  or  tumble  out  of  their  sad- 
dles the  last  drivers  of  a  wagon  train.  These 
lively  young  men  had  been  in  unusual  demand 
of  late  and  their  hiding-place  was  not  known 
even  to  the  faithful,  so  I  was  condemned  to 
the  society  of  an  outlier  of  a  less  picturesque 
variety.  Pink  Bishop  was  a  blacksmith,  and 
just  the  man  to  forge  me  a  set  of  shoes  from 
the  leather  Neighbor  Case  had  already  pro- 
vided. The  little  still-shed,  concealed  from 
the  road  only  by  a  low  hill,  was  considered  an 
unsafe  harbor,  on  account  of  a  fresh  fall  of 
snow  with  its  sensibility  to  tell-tale  impressions. 
So  we  set  up  our  shoe  factory  in  a  deserted 
cabin,  well  back  on  the  mountain  and  just 
astride  of  that  imaginary  line  which  divides  the 
Carolinas.  From  the  fireplace  we  dug  away 
the  cornstalks,  heaping  the  displaced  bundles 
against  broken  windows  and  windy  cracks, 
and  otherwise  secured  our  retreat  against  frost 
and   enemies.     Then   ensued  three   days  of 


primitive  shoemaking.  As  may  be  inferred,  the 
shoes  made  no  pretension  to  style.  I  sewed  the 
short  seams  at  the  sides  and  split  the  pegs  from 
a  section  of  seasoned  maple.  Rudely  con- 
structed as  these  shoes  were  they  bore  their 
wearer  triumphantly  into  the  promised  land. 

I  restrained  my  eagerness  to  be  going  until 
Monday  night,  the  time  agreed  upon,  when, 
my  disabled  companion  not  putting  in  an  ap- 
pearance, I  set  out  for  my  old  friend's  in 
Casher's  Valley.  I  got  safely  over  a  long 
wooden  bridge  within  half  a  mile  of  a  garri- 
soned town.  I  left  the  road,  and  turned,  as  I 
believed,  away  from  the  town,  but  I  was  abso- 
lutely lost  in  the  darkness  of  a  snow-storm,  and 
forced  to  seek  counsel  as  well  as  shelter.  In 
this  plight  I  pressed  on  towards  a  light,  glim- 
mering faintly  through  the  blinding  snow.  It 
led  me  into  the  shelter  of  the  porch  to  a  small 
brown  house,  cut  deeply  beneath  the  low  eaves 
and  protected  at  the  sides  by  flanking  bed- 
rooms. My  knock  was  answered  by  a  girlish 
voice,  and  from  the  ensuing  parley,  through 
the  closed  door,  I  learned  that  she  was  the 
daughter  of  a  Baptist  exhorter,  and  that  she 
was  alone  in  the  house,  her  brother  away  at 
the  village,  and  her  father,  having  preached 
the  day  before  at  some  distance,  was  not  ex- 
pected home  until  the  next  morning.  Reas.- 
sured  by  my  civil-toned  inquiries  about  the 
road,  she  unfastened  the  door  and  came  out 
to  the  porch,  where  she  proceeded  to  instruct 
me  how  to  go  on,  which  was  just  the  thing 
I  least  desired  to  do.  By  this  time  I  had  dis- 
covered the  political  complexion  of  the  family, 
and,  making  myself  known,  was  instantly 
invited  in,  with  the  assurance  that  her  father 
would  be  gravely  displeased  if  she  permitted 
me  to  go  on  before  he  returned.  I  had  inter- 
rupted my  little  benefactress  in  the  act  of 
writing  a  letter,  on  a  sheet  of  foolscap,  which 
lay  on  /  an  old-fashioned  stand  in  one  corner 
of  the  room  beside  the  ink-bottle  and  the 
candlestick.  In  the  diagonal  corner  stood  a 
tall  bookcase,  the  crowded  volumes  nestling 
lovingly  behind  the  glass  doors — the  only  col- 
lection of  the  sort  that  I  saw  at  anytime  in  the 
mountains.  A  feather-bed  was  spread  upon 
the  floor,  the  head  raised  by  means  of  a  turned- 
down  chair,  and  here  I  was  reposing  comfort- 
ably when  the  brother  arrived.  It  was  late 
in  the  forenoon  when  the  minister  reached 
home,  his  rickety  wagon  creaking  through  the 
snow,  and  drawn  at  a  snail's  pace  by  a  long- 
furred,  knock-kneed  horse.  The  tall  but  not 
very  clerical  figure  was  wrapped  in  a  shawl  and 
swathed  round  the  throat  with  many  turns  of 
a  woolen  tippet.  The  daughter  ran  out  with 
eagerness  to  greet  her  father  and  tell  of  the 
wonderful  arrival.  I  was  received  with  genuine 
delight.    It  was  the  enthusiasm  of  a  patriot, 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


945 


-eager  to  find  a  sympathetic  ear  for  his  long-  the  morning,  intending  to  put  me  in  the  corn- 
repressed  views.1  pany  of  a  man  who  was  going  towards  Cash- 
When  night  came  and  no  entreaties  could  er's  Valley  on  a  hunting  expedition.  When 
prevail  to  detain  me  over  another  day,  the  we  reached  his  house,  however,  the  hunter  had 
minister  conducted  me  some  distance  in  per-  gone \  so,  after  parting  with  my  guide,  I  set  for- 
son,  passing  me  on  with  ample  directions  to  ward  through  the  woods,  following  the  tracks 
another  exhorter,  who  was  located  for  that  of  the  hunter's  horse.    The  shoe-prints  were 


PINK    BISHOP    AT     THE     STILL. 


night  at  the  house  of  a  miller  who  kept  a  fero- 
cious dog.  I  came  first  to  the  pond  and  then 
to  the  mill,  and  got  into  the  house  without  en- 
countering the  dog.  Aware  of  the  necessity  of 
arriving  before  bedtime,  I  had  made  such  speed 
as  to  find  the  miller's  family  still  lingering  about 
the  fireplace  with  preacher  number  two  seated 
in  the  lay  circle.  That  night  I  slept  with  the 
parson,  who  sat  up  in  bed  in  the  morning, 
and  after  disencumbering  himself  of  a  striped 
extinguisher  nightcap  electrified  the  other 
sleepers  by  announcing  that  this  was  the  first 
time  he  had  ever  slept  with  a  Yankee.  After 
breakfast  the  parson,  armed  with  staff  and 
scrip,  signified  his  purpose  to  walk  with  me 
during  the  day,  as  it  was  no  longer  dangerous 
to  move  by  daylight.  We  must  have  been 
traveling  the  regular  Baptist  road,  for  we  lodged 
that  night  at  the  house  of  another  lay  brother. 
The  minister  continued  with  me  a  few  miles  in 

1  The  Rev.  James  H.  Duckworth,  now  postmaster 
of  Brevard,  Transylvania  County,  North  Carolina, and 
in  1868  member  of  the  State  Constitutional  Convention, 
in  his  letter  of  June  24,  1890,  says :  "  I  have  not  for- 
gotten those  things  of  which  you  speak.  I  can  almost 
see  you  (even  in  imagination)  standing  at  the  fire  when 
I  drove  up  to  the  gate  and  went  into  the  house  and 
Vol.  XL. — 125. 


sometimes  plainly  impressed  in  the  snow,  and 
again  for  long  distances  over  dry  leaves  and 
bare  ground,  but  an  occasional  trace  could  be 
found.  It  was  past  noon  when  I  arrived  at  the 
house  where  the  hunters  were  assembled. 
Quite  a  number  of  men  were  gathered  in  and 
about  the  porch,  just  returned  from  the  chase. 
Blinded  by  the  snow  over  which  I  had  been 
walking  in  the  glare  of  the  sun,  I  blundered 
up  the  steps,  inquiring  without  much  tact  for 
the  rider  who  had  preceded  me,  and  was  no 
little  alarmed  at  receiving  a  rude  and  gruff  re- 
ception. I  continued  in  suspense  for  some  time 
until  my  man  found  an  opportunity  to  inform 
me  that  there  were  suspicious  persons  present, 
thus  accounting  for  his  unexpected  manner. 
The  explanation  was  made  at  a  combination 
meal,  serving  for  both  dinner  and  supper,  and 
consisting  exclusively  of  beans.  I  set  out  at 
twilight  to  make  a  walk  of  thirteen  miles  to 

asked  you,  *  Have  I  ever  seen  you  before  ? '  Just 
then  I  observed  your  uniform.  'Oh,  yes,'  said  I;  'I 
know  who  it  is  now.'  .  .  .  This  daughter  of  whom 
you  speak  married  about  a  year  after,  and  is  living  in 
Morgantown,  North  Carolina,  about  one  hundred 
miles  from  here.  Hattie  (for  that  is  her  name)  is  a 
pious,  religious  woman." 


946 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


the  house  of  our  old  friend  Esquire  Hooper. 
Eager  for  the  cordial  welcome  which  I  knew 
awaited  me,  and  nerved  by  the  frosty  air,  I  sped 
over  the  level  wood-road,  much  of  the  way  run- 
ning instead  of  walking.  Three  times  I  came 
upon  bends  of  the  same  broad  rivulet.  Taking 
off  my  shoes  and  stockings  and  rolling  up  my 
trousers  above  my  knees,  I  tried  the  first  pas- 
sage. Flakes  of  broken  ice  were  eddying  against 
the  banks,  and  before  gaining  the  middle  of 
the  stream  my  feet  and  ankles  ached  with  the 
cold,  the  sharp  pain  increasing  at  every  step 
until  I  threw  my  blanket  on  the  opposite  bank 
and  springing  upon  it  wrapped  my  feet  in  its 
dry  folds.  Rising  a  little  knoll  soon  after  mak- 
ing the  third  ford,  I  came  suddenly  upon  the 
familiar  stopping-place  of  my  former  journey. 
It  was  scarcely  more  than  nine  o'clock,  and  the 
little  hardships  of  the  journey  from  Caesar's 
Head  seemed  but  a  cheap  outlay  for  the  joy 
of  the  meeting  with  friends  so  interested  in  the 
varied  fortunes  of  myself  and  my  late  com- 
panions. Together  we  rejoiced  at  the  escape 
of  Sill  and  Lamson,  and  made  merry  over  the 
vicissitudes  of  my  checkered  career.  Here  I 
first  learned  of  the  safe  arrival  in  Tennessee  of 
Knapp,  Man  Heady,  and  Old  Tom  Handcock. 
After  a  day's  rest  I  climbed  the  mountains 
to  the  Headen  cabin,  now  presided  over  by 
the  heroine  of  the  heifer  bell  in  the  absence 
of  her  fugitive  husband.  Saddling  her  horse, 
she  took  me  the  next  evening  to  join  a  lad 


who  was  about  starting  for  Shooting  Creek. 
Young  Green  was  awaiting  my  arrival,  and 
after  a  brief  delay  we  were  off  on  a  journey 
of  something  like  sixty  miles;  the  journey, 
however,  was  pushed  to  a  successful  termina- 
tion by  the  help  of  information  gleaned  by  the 
way.  It  was  at  the  close  of  the  last  night's 
march,  which  had  been  long  and  uneventful, 
except  that  we  had  surmounted  no  fewer  than 
three  snow-capped  ridges,  that  my  black- 
smith's shoes,  soaked  to  a  pulp  by  the  wet  snow, 
gave  out  altogether.  On  the  top  of  the  last 
ridge  I  found  myself  panting  in  the  yellow 
light  of  the  rising  sun,  the  sad  wrecks  of  my 
two  shoes  dangling  from  my  hands,  a  wilderness 
of  beauty  spread  out  before  me,  and  a  spark- 
ling field  of  frosty  forms  beneath  my  tingling 
feet.  Stretching  far  into  the  west  towards  the 
open  country  of  East  Tennessee  was  the  lim- 
itless wilderness  of  mountains  drawn  like 
mighty  furrows  across  the  toilsome  way,  the 
pale  blue  of  the  uttermost  ridges  fading  into 
an  imperceptible  union  with  the  sky.  A  log 
house  was  in  sight  down  in  the  valley,  a  per- 
pendicular column  of  smoke  rising  from  its 
single  chimney.  Towards  this  we  picked  our 
way,  I  in  my  stocking  feet,  and  my  boy  guide 
confidently  predicting  that  we  should  find  the 
required  cobbler.  Of  course  we  found  him  in 
a  country  where  every  family  makes  its  own 
shoes  as  much  as  its  own  bread,  and  he  was 
ready  to  serve  the  traveler  without  pay.    Not- 


ARRIVAL    HOME    OF    THE    BAPTIST    MINISTER. 


A   HARD  ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


947 


SURPRISED     AT     MRS.    KITCHEN  S. 


withstanding  our  night's  work,  we  tarried  no 
longer  than  for  the  necessary  repairs,  and  just 
before  sunset  we  looked  down  upon  the  scat- 
tering settlement  of  Shooting  Creek.  Standing 
on  the  bleak  brow  of  "  Chunky  Gall "  Moun- 
tain, my  guide  recognized  the  first  familiar 
object  on  the  trip,  which  was  the  roof  of  his 
uncle's  house.  At  Shooting  Creek  I  was  the 
guest  of  the  Widow  Kitchen,  whose  house  was 
the  principal  one  in  the  settlement  and  whose 
estate  boasted  two  slaves.  The  husband  had 
fallen  by  an  anonymous  bullet  while  salting  his 
cattle  on  the  mountain  in  an  early  year  of  the  war. 

On  the  day  following  my  arrival  I  was  con- 
ducted over  a  ridge  to  another  creek,  where  I 
met  two  professional  guides,  Quince  Edmon- 
ston  and  Mack  Hooper.  As  I  came  upon  the 
pair  parting  a  thicket  of  laurel,  with  their  long 
rifles  at  a  shoulder,  I  instantly  recognized  the 
coat  of  the  latter  as  the  snuff- colored  sack  in 
which  I  had  last  seen  Lieutenant  Lamson. 
It  had  been  given  to  the  man  at  Chattanooga, 
where  these  same  guides  had  conducted  my 
former  companions  in  safety  a  month  before. 
Quince  Edmonston,  the  elder,  had  led  nu- 
merous parties  of  Yankee  officers  over  the  Wa- 
cheesa  trail  for  a  consideration  of  a  hundred 
dollars,  pledged  to  be  paid  by  each  officer  at 
Chattanooga  or  Nashville. 

Two  other  officers  were  concealed  near  by, 
and  a  number  of  refugees,  awaiting  a  convoy, 
and  an  arrangement  was  rapidly  made  with 


the  guides.  The  swollen  condition  of  the  Val- 
ley River  made  it  necessary  to  remain  for  sev- 
eral days  at  Shooting  Creek  before  setting  out. 
Mack  and  I  were  staying  at  the  house  of  Mrs. 
Kitchen.  It  was  on  the  afternoon  of  a  mem- 
orable Friday,  the  rain  still  falling  in  torrents 
without,  that  I  sat  before  the  fire  poring  over 
a  small  Sunday-school  book ;  the  only  printed 
book  in  the  house,  if  not  in  the  settlement. 
Mack  Hooper  was  sitting  by  the  door.  At- 
tracted by  a  rustling  sound  in  his  direction,  I 
looked  up  just  in  time  to  see  his  heels  disap- 
pearing under  the  nearest  bed.  Leaping  to  my 
feet  with  an  instinctive  impulse  to  do  likewise, 
I  was  confronted  in  the  doorway  by  a  stalwart 
Confederate  officer  fully  uniformed  and  armed. 
Behind  him  was  his  quartermaster  sergeant. 
This  was  a  Government  party  collecting  the 
tax-in-kind,  which  at  that  time  throughout  the 
Confederacy  was  the  tenth  part  of  all  crops 
and  other  farm  productions.  It  was  an  ugly 
surprise.  Seeing  no  escape,  I  ventured  a  re- 
mark on  the  weather;  only  a  stare  in  reply. 
A  plan  of  escape  flashed  through  my  mind 
like  an  inspiration.  I  seated  myself  quietly, 
and  for  an  instant  bent  my  eyes  upon  the 
printed  pages.  The  two  soldiers  had  advanced 
to  the  corner  of  the  chimney  nearest  the  door, 
inquiring  for  the  head  of  the  family  and  keep- 
ing their  eyes  riveted  on  my  hostile  uniform. 
At  this  juncture  I  was  seized  with  a  severe  fit 
of  coughing.    With  one  hand  upon  my  chest, 


948 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


I  walked  slowly  past  the  men,  and  laid  my 
carefully  opened  book  face  down  upon  a  chest. 
With  another  step  or  two  I  was  in  the  porch, 
and  bounding  into  the  kitchen  I  sprang  out 
through  a  window  already  opened  by  the 
women  for  my  exit.  Away  I  sped  bareheaded 
through  the  pelting  rain,  now  crashing  through 
thick  underbrush,  and  now  to  my  waist  in 
swollen  streams,  plunging  on  and  on,  only 
mindful  to  select  a  course  that  would  baffle 
horsemen  in  pursuit.  After  some  miles  of  run- 
ning I  took  cover  behind  a  stack,  within  view 
of  the  road  which  Mack  must  take  in  retreat- 
ing to  the  other  settlement ;  and  sure  enough 
here  he  was,  coming  down  the  road  with  my 
cap  and  haversack,  which  was  already  loaded 
for  the  western  journey.  Mack  had  remained 
undiscovered  under  the  bed,  an  interested  lis- 
tener to  the  conversation  that  ensued.  The 
officer  had  been  assured  that  I  was  a  friendly 
scout;  but  convinced  of  the  contrary  by  my 
flight,  he  had  departed  swearing  he  would  cap- 
ture that  Yankee  before  morning  if  he  had  to 
search  the  whole  settlement.  So  alarmed  were 
we  for  our  safety  that  we  crossed  that  night 
into  a  third  valley  and  slept  in  the  loft  of  a 
horse-barn. 


On  Sunday  our  expedition  assembled  on  a 
hillside  overlooking  Snooting  Creek,  where  our 
friends  in  the  secret  of  the  movement  came 
up  to  bid  us  adieu.  With  guides  we  were  a 
party  of  thirteen  or  fourteen,  but  only  three  of  us 
officers  who  were  to  pay  for  our  safe  conduct. 
Each  man  carried  his  supply  of  bread  and 
meat  and  bedding.  Some  were  wrapped  in 
faded  bedquilts  and  some  in  tattered  army 
blankets ;  nearly  all  wore  ragged  clothes, 
broken  shoes,  and  had  unkempt  beards.  We 
arrived  upon  a  mountain  side  overlooking  the 
settlement  of  Peach  Tree,  and  were  awaiting 
the  friendly  shades  of  night  under  which  to 
descend  to  the  house  of  the  man  who  was  to 
put  us  across  Valley  River.  Premature  darkness 
was  accompanied  with  torrents  of  rain,  through 
which  we  followed  our  now  uncertain  guides. 
At  last  the  light  of  the  cabin  we  were  seeking 
gleamed  humidly  through  the  trees.  Most  of 
the  family  fled  into  the  outhouses  at  our  ap- 
proach, some  of  them  not  reappearing  until 
we  were  disposed  for  sleep  in  a  half-circle  be- 
fore the  fire.  The  last  arrival  were  two  tall 
women  in  homespun  dresses  and  calico  sun- 
bonnets.  They  slid  timidly  in  at  the  door, 
with  averted  faces,  and  then  with  a  rush  and 


THE    MEETING     WITH    THE     2D    OHIO     HEAVY    ARTILLERY. 


A   HARD   ROAD    TO    TRAVEL    OUT  OF  DIXIE. 


949 


a  bounce  covered  themselves  out  of  sight  in  a 
bed,  where  they  had  probably  been  sleeping 
in  the  same  clothing  when  we  approached  the 
house.  Here  we  learned  that  a  cavalcade  of 
four  hundred  Texan  Rangers  had  advanced 
into  Tennessee  by  the  roads  on  the  day  before. 
Our  guides,  familiar  with  the  movements  of 
these  dreaded  troopers,  calculated  that  with  the 
day's  delay  enforced  by  the  state  of  the  river  a 
blow  would  have  been  struck  and  the  maraud- 
ers would  be  in  full  retreat  before  we  should 
arrive  on  the  ground.  We  passed  that  day  con- 
cealed in  a  stable,  and  as  soon  as  it  was  suffi- 
ciently dark  we  proceeded  in  a  body  to  the 
bank  of  the  river  attended  by  a  man  and  a  horse. 
The  stream  was  narrow,  but  the  current  was 
full  and  swift.  The  horse  breasted  the  flood 
with  difficulty,  but  he  bore  us  all  across  one  at 
a  time,  seated  behind  the  farmer. 

We  had  now  left  behind  us  the  last  settle- 
ment, and  before  us  lay  only  wild  and  unin- 
habited mountains.  The  trail  we  traveled  was  an 
Indian  path  extending  for  nearly  seventy  miles 
through  an  uninhabited  wilderness.  Instead 
of  crossing  the  ridges  it  follows  the  trend  of  the 
range,  winding  for  the  most  part  along  the 
crests  of  the  divides.  The  occasional  traveler 
having  once  mounted  to  its  level  pursues  his 
solitary  way  with  little  climbing. 

Early  in  the  morning  of  the  fourth  day  our 
little  party  was  assembled  upon  the  last  moun- 
tain overlooking  the  open  country  of  East 
Tennessee.  Some  of  us  had  been  wandering 
in  the  mountains  for  the  whole  winter.  We 
were  returning  to  a  half-forgotten  world  of 
farms  and  fences,  roads  and  railways.  Below 
us  stretched  the  Tellico  River  away  towards 
the  line  of  towns  marking  the  course  of  the 
Nashville  and  Chattanooga  Railroad.  One  of 
the  guides  who  had  ventured  down  to  the 
nearest  house  returned  with  information  that 
the  four  hundred  Texan  Rangers  had  burned 
the  depot  at  Philadelphia  Station  the  day  be- 
fore, but  were  now  thought  to  be  out  of  the 
country.  We  could  see  the  distant  smoke  aris- 
ing from  the  ruins.  Where  the  river  flowed  out 
of  the  mountains  were  extensive  iron-works, 
the  property  of  a  loyal  citizen,  and  in  front  of 
his  house  we  halted  for  consultation.  He  re- 
gretted that  we  had  shown  ourselves  so  soon, 
as  the  rear  guard  of  the  marauders  had  passed 
the  night  within  sight  of  where  we  now  stood. 
Our  nearest  pickets  were  at  Loudon,  thirty 
miles  distant  on  the  railway,  and  for  this  sta- 
tion we  were  advised  to  make  all  speed. 

For  half  a  mile  the  road  ran  along  the  bank 


of  the  river  and  then  turned  around  a  wooded 
bluff  to  the  right.  Opposite  to  this  bluff  and 
accessible  by  a  shallow  ford  was  another  hill, 
where  it  was  feared  that  some  of  the  Rangers 
were  still  lingering  about  their  camp.  As  we 
came  to  the  turn  in  the  road  our  company  was 
walking  rapidly  in  Indian  file,  guide  Edmon- 
ston  and  I  at  the  front.  Coming  around  the 
bluff  from  the  opposite  direction  was  a  coun- 
tryman mounted  on  a  powerful  gray  mare. 
His  overcoat  was  army  blue,  but  he  wore  a 
bristling  fur  cap,  and  his  rifle  was  slung  on  his 
back.  At  sight  of  us  he  turned  in  his  saddle 
to  shout  to  some  one  behind,  and  bringing  his 
gun  to  bear  came  tearing  and  swearing  down 
the  road,  spattering  the  gravel  under  the  big 
hoofs  of  the  gray.  Close  at  his  heels  rode  two 
officers  in  Confederate  gray  uniforms,  and  a 
motley  crowd  of  riders  closed  up  the  road  be- 
hind. In  an  instant  the  guide  and  I  were  sur- 
rounded, the  whole  cavalcade  leveling  their 
guns  at  the  thicket  and  calling  on  our  com- 
panions to  halt,  who  could  be  plainly  heard 
crashing  through  the  bushes.  The  dress  of 
but  few  of  our  captors  could  be  seen,  nearly 
all  being  covered  with  rubber  talmas,  but  their 
mounts,  including  mules  as  well  as  horses, 
were  equipped  with  every  variety  of  bridle 
and  saddle  to  be  imagined.  I  knew  at  a 
glance  that  this  was  no  body  of  our  cavalry. 
If  we  were  in  the  hands  of  the  Rangers  the 
fate  of  the  guides  and  refugees  would  be  the 
hardest.  I  thought  they  might  spare  the  lives 
of  the  officers.  "  Who  are  you  ?  What  are 
you  doing  here  ?  "  demanded  the  commander, 
riding  up  to  us  and  scrutinizing  our  rags.  I 
hesitated  a  moment,  and  then,  throwing  off  the 
blanket  I  wore  over  my  shoulders,  simply  said, 
"  You  can  see  what  I  am."  My  rags  were  the 
rags  of  a  uniform,  and  spoke  for  themselves. 

Our  captors  proved  to  be  a  company  of  the 
2d  Ohio  Heavy  Artillery,  in  pursuit  of  the  ma- 
rauders into  whose  clutches  we  thought  we  had 
fallen.  The  farmer  on  the  gray  mare  was  the 
guide  of  the  expedition,  and  the  two  men  uni- 
formed as  rebel  officers  were  Union  scouts. 
The  irregular  equipment  of  the  animals,  which 
had  excited  my  suspicion  most,  as  well  as  the 
animals  themselves,  had  been  hastily  impressed 
from  the  country  about  the  village  of  Loudon, 
where  the  2d  Ohio  was  stationed.  On  the  fol- 
lowing evening,  which  was  the  4th  of  March, 
the  day  of  the  second  inauguration  of  President 
Lincoln,  we  walked  into  Loudon  and  gladly 
surrendered  ourselves  to  the  outposts  of  the 
Ohio  Heavy  Artillery. 

W.  H.  Shelton. 


Vol.  XL.— 126. 


TOPICS    OF    THE    TIME. 


Partisan  Recognition  of  the  Independent  Voter. 

OF  late  years  attention  has  been  directed  to  a  class 
of  voters  supposed  to  be  unique.  Party  and  parti- 
san considerations  have  been  so  engrossing  that  the 
Independent  Voter  has  seemed  to  the  popular  mind 
a  new  development  Investigation  will  prove,  how- 
ever, that  the  independent  voter  has  been  abroad  from 
the  earliest  days  of  the  Republic ;  that  he  is  the  natu- 
ral product  of  free  institutions  and  universal  suffrage ; 
and  that  his  power  has  been  felt  with  effect  long  be- 
fore he  was  given  a  distinctive  name. 

A  review  of  the  course  of  party  history  ought  to 
convince  even  the  most  bitter  partisan  that  every  party, 
whether  in  nation  or  state,  has  appealed  to  the  inde- 
pendent voter  for  his  support,  and  that  party  suprem- 
acy has  generally  been  decided  by  this  vote.  By  the 
independent  voter  we  mean  not  only  the  voter  who 
avows  no  party  allegiance  whatever,  but  also  the 
thoughtful  citizen  who,  while  believing  in  parties  as 
means  of  effective  political  action,  still  holds  principle 
above  the  shibboleths  of  political  nomenclature,  and 
will  bravely  follow  his  convictions  across  the  lines  of 
partisan  organization. 

Our  political  history  naturally  divides  itself  into  pe- 
riods when  important  or  vital  issues  have  come  up  for 
settlement.  Most  of  these  have  been  of  local  or  tem- 
porary interest.  No  single  question  has  divided  parties 
from  the  beginning,  in  1787,  down  to  the  present.  It 
is  often  asserted  that  some  of  the  issues  of  Washing- 
ton's or  Jefferson's  time  still  remain  unsettled.  But 
this  is  not  true.  Not  one  of  these  has  remained  with- 
out question  the  peculiar  property  of  the  various  parties 
that  have  succeeded  each  other,  and  whose  adherents 
at  different  periods  and  for  different  reasons  have 
ranged  themselves  on  one  side  or  the  other  of  the  tariff 
question,  the  States'  rights  question,  or  the  question 
of  strengthening  the  national  authority.  The  interests 
of  persons  or  of  sections  have  shifted  from  time  to  time, 
and  have  demanded  a  changed  interpretation. 

Besides,  such  issues  have  never  presented  the  same 
face  at  different  periods.  So,  while  it  is  common  to  re- 
fer all  our  divergences  of  party  opinion  to  these  ques- 
tions, the  truth  is,  this  has  been  a  forced  construction. 
Most  of  the  temporary  issues  which  have  been  settled 
in  one  way  or  another  had  only  the  remotest  relation 
to  rival  fiscal  theories,  or  to  States'  rights,  or  to  cen- 
tralization. In  truth,  these  principles,  supposed  to  lie 
at  the  basis  of  all  the  politics  we  have,  and  to  be  the 
cause  of  party  division,  have  been  lost  sight  of  so 
constantly  that  men  have  often  been  compelled  to  cross 
party  lines  in  order  to  find  congenial  associations  or 
sympathy  for  their  peculiar  opinions. 

The  Federal  party,  organized  as  the  bulwark  of  the 
Constitution,  afforded  the  independent  voter  an  oppor- 
tunity to  exercise  his  privilege.  When  the  necessity  of 
giving  up  the  Confederation  became  apparent,  public 
sentiment  was  far  from  being  unanimous  in  favor  of 
the  proposed  grant  of  power  by  the  States  to  the  Fed- 
eral Government.  As  a  majority  could  not  be  com- 
95o 


manded,  there  was  nothing  to  ao  but  win  it  by  appeal 
to  the  country.  If  the  Federalists  had  refused  to  ask 
for  aid,  or  to  accept  it  when  tendered,  they  could  never 
have  created  a  sentiment  in  favor  of  the  Constitution, 
which,  even  with  this  assistance,  was  neither  adopted 
nor  ratified  without  a  contest.  Its  friends  did  not  hesi- 
tate to  make  their  appeal  to  the  people,  and  it  is  no- 
where recorded  that  they  asked  any  questions  about 
the  former  opinions  or  affiliations  of  their  converts. 
They  not  only  used  arguments,  but  they  invoked  aid 
in  the  names  of  Washington  and  the  fathers  of  the 
Republic  then  living.  They  won,  because  they  were 
able  to  get  the  support,  not  of  their  own  followers  or 
sympathizers  alone,  but  of  the  independent  voters  of 
that  day  ;  and  in  doing  this  they  created  a  precedent 
since  followed. 

In  due  time  the  influences  that  had  surrounded 
Washington  and  the  founders  were  no  longer  potent. 
The  fortunes  of  the  party  were  intrusted  to  leaders 
who  lived  in  the  past,  or  used  their  power  unwisely,  or 
put  undue  confidence  in  the  affection  and  credulity  of 
their  followers.  So  a  new  appeal  was  made.  The  Re- 
publican or  Jeffersonian  party  did  not  trust  to  its  own 
resources,  or  give  the  least  hint  of  an  intention  to 
drive  voters  away  because  of  any  previous  differences 
of  opinion ;  on  the  contrary,  it  asked  patriotic,  think- 
ing, and  independent  men  to  come  over  and  help  it. 
Enough  of  them  did  so  not  only  to  give  it  the  power 
and  responsibility  of  the  government,  but  to  send  a  once 
victorious  party  to  death  and  oblivion. 

The  independent  voter  was  again  appealed  to  during 
our  second  war  with  Great  Britain,  after  Jefferson  and 
Madison,  by  vacillation  or  mistake,  had  to  some  extent 
forfeited  the  united  support  of  their  own  party  follow- 
ers. Especially  in  the  Middle  and  Southern  States 
the  remnants  of  their  old  opponents,  the  Federalists, 
then  came  to  the  support  of  Madison  during  his  second 
term,  and  thus  created  a  public  sentiment  which  not 
only  carried  the  war  to  a  successful  conclusion,  but 
completed  the  enfranchisement  of  the  country.  The 
remainder  of  the  Jeffersonian  regime  —  the  eight  years 
of  Monroe  —  is  the  history  of  commonplace,  or  of 
drifting  with  the  tide,  only  to  be  followed  by  the  four 
years  of  John  Quincy  Adams,  too  brief  and  unsub- 
stantial greatly  to  impress  the  country. 

The  popular  impression  seems  to  be  that  the  Jack- 
son period  was  a  purely  partisan  one.  Filled  as  his 
administration  was  with  things  to  be  criticized,  it 
must  be  admitted  that  voters  were  attracted  to  the 
man  who  could  formulate  a  decided  policy  and  carry 
it  out  with  courage  and  perseverance.  Owing  partly 
to  the  fact  that  he  was  fiercely  challenged,  he  could 
command  for  himself  the  most  loyal  support  ever  given 
a  President  of  the  United  States,  and  bequeathed  his 
power  to  his  chosen  successor  unimpaired. 

But  General  Jackson  was  not  without  rivals  in  his 
appeal  for  general  or  independent  support.  The  great 
Whig  leaders  of  that  day,  by  ability  and  character, 
drew  to  themselves  and  their  party  thousands  of  the 
former  supporters  of  Jackson  and  his  party.     These 


TOPICS   OF  THE    TIME. 


95i 


men  had  not  only  their  own  strong  personalities,  but 
they  conjured  in  the  name  of  the  American  system, 
internal  improvements,  and  the  enlargement  of  the 
powers  of  government,  all  of  which  were  potent  to 
fascinate.  So  in  that  time,  as  in  others  of  activity,  or 
passion,  or  strong  leadership,  the  independent  voter 
was  compelled  to  give  heed  to  the  demands  and  the 
promises  of  a  vigorous  partisan. 

The  next  period  of  interest  to  show  the  value  of  the 
independent  voter  may  be  termed  the  era  of  national 
expansion.  Great  personalities  had  disappeared  or 
lost  their  power  and  influence,  and  great  national 
policies  were  to  be  settled.  This  was  the  period  from 
1845  to  i860,  when  the  admission  of  Texas,  the  Mexi- 
can war,  the  discovery  of  gold  in  California,  Manifest 
Destiny,  fiscal  reform,  and  industrial  development 
became  engrossing.  It  was  during  this  time  that  the 
abolition  of  slavery,  a  great  moral  question,  competed 
with  questions  of  purely  material  import  for  the  sup- 
port of  the  independent  voter.  This  competition 
broke  down  or  reconstructed  party  lines,  and  carried 
even  leading  men  from  the  ranks  of  one  party  into 
those  of  the  other.  At  no  period  in  our  history  has 
party  discipline  been  more  severe,  and  yet  there  has 
been  none  when  men  of  intelligence  and  independence 
broke  away  from  these  trammels  in  greater  numbers, 
or  responded  with  more  zeal  and  alacrity  to  the  appeals 
made  to  them. 

The  Lincoln  period,  or  the  era  of  national  preserva- 
tion, gave  the  independent  voter  a  golden  opportu- 
nity. A  President  elected  by  the  votes  of  less  than 
two-fifths  of  the  people  was  dependent  for  the  success 
of  his  administration  upon  men  who  had  voted  against 
him  and  his  party.  He  was  able  to  command  support 
from  these  voters,  not  because  he  bought  it  with 
offices,  or  gave  pensions  to  them  or  the  class  they 
represented,  or  recommended  large  appropriations  for 
rivers  and  harbors  or  public  buildings.  He  gained 
them  because  he  represented  the  conscience  of  the 
country,  because  he  stood  for  its  preservation  and 
safety.  When  the  crisis  had  passed,  many  who  had 
come  to  his  assistance  returned  to  their  old  allegiance. 
They  had  done  their  work  as  independent  voters,  and 
having  supported  a  cause  deemed  it  their  duty  to  renew 
their  old  associations. 

It  was  not  until  the  last  two  periods  mentioned  that 
the  party  platform  came  to  have  its  modern  authority. 
Appeal  was  made  to  the  intelligence  or  independence 
of  voters  upon  the  action  of  parties  in  Congress  and 
the  utterances  of  leaders.  About  the  time  that  the 
slavery  question  began  to  project  itself  into  discus- 
sion the  distinctive  declaration  of  principles  became 
more  and  more  important.  It  is  interesting  to  note 
how  the  great  political  parties  which  between  them 
have  divided  the  allegiance  of  Americans  for  more 
than  a  generation  have  appealed  to  the  independent 
voter.  Putting  entirely  out  of  the  accouiat  those  third 
party  movements  which  have  caused  many  voters  to 
break  away  from  did  attachments,  it  will  be  found  that 
existing  political  organizations,  instead  of  contemning 
the  voter  with  real  independence,  have  at  all  times, 
in  both  national  and  State  conventions,  vied  with  each 
other  in  asking  his  help. 

The  National  Democratic  Convention  held  in  Balti- 
more in  1848  nominated  Lewis  Cass  as  its  candidate 
for  President,  and  declared  that  it  placed  its  trust  "  in 


the  intelligence,  the  patriotism,  and  the  discriminating 
justice  of  the  American  people."  In  1856,  when  the 
convention  was  held  at  Cincinnati,  James  Buchanan 
was  nominated  as  its  candidate,  and  it  made  its  appeal 
anew  in  the  same  language. 

The  Republicans  at  their  first  national  convention, 
in  1856,  nominated  the  late  General  Fremont  as  their 
candidate,  and  in  their  platform  invited  "  the  affiliation 
and  cooperation  of  the  men  of  all  politics,  however  dif- 
fering from  us  in  other  respects,  in  support  of  the 
principles  herein  declared."  The  convention  of  i860, 
by  which  Abraham  Lincoln  was  nominated,  made  its 
declaration  of  principles  and  invited  "  the  cooperation 
of  all  citizens,  however  differing  on  other  questions,  who 
substantially  agree  with  us  in  their  affirmance  and 
support." 

In  1868,  when  the  issues  of  the  war  period  were 
still  unsettled,  the  Democrats  in  national  convention 
appealed  to  patriots  and  conservative  men  for  their 
support,  and  declared  that  "  to  all  such,  to  whatever 
party  they  may  have  heretofore  belonged,  we  extend  the 
right  hand  of  fellowship,  and  hail  all  such,  cooperating 
with  us,  as  friends  and  brethren." 

The  Liberal  Republican  Convention  of  1872  invited 
and  cordially  welcomed  "  the  cooperation  of  all  pa- 
triotic citizens,  without  regard  to  previous  political 
affiliations." 

In  1876  the  Democrats  emphasized  the  urgent  need 
of  reform,  and  in  order  to  secure  it  appealed  to  their 
"  fellow-citizens  of  every  former  political  connection  "  to 
undertake  with  them  this  duty. 

In  1880  the  Greenbackers  asked  the  "  cooperation 
of  all  fair-minded  people,"  and  the  Prohibitionists  in 
national  convention  in  the  same  year  invited  "all 
voters,  without  regard  to  former  party  affiliations,  to 
unite  with  us  in  the  use  of  the  ballot  for  the  aboli- 
tion of  the  drinking  system." 

The  Democrats  in  1884  declared  that  "the  great 
issue  of  reform  and  change  is  submitted  to  the  people 
in  calm  confidence  that  the  popular  voice  will  pronounce 
in  favor  of  new  men  and  new  and  more  favorable  con- 
ditions for  the  growth  of  industry,  the  extension  of 
trade,  the  employment  and  due  reward  of  labor  and 
capital,  and  the  general  welfare  of  the  whole  country." 

In  1888  the  Democratic  party  submitted  "its  prin- 
ciples and  professions  to  the  intelligent  suffrages  of 
the  American  people."  In  the  same  presidential  can- 
vass the  Republicans  invited  "  the  cooperation  of  patri- 
otic men  of  all  parties." 

Not  only  has  appeal  been  made  to  the  independent 
voter  in  the  platforms,  but  he  has  been  invited  in  the 
formal  calls  for  these  conventions.  In  1876,  1880, 
and  1884  the  National  Democratic  Committee  asked 
all  "  Democratic,  conservative,  and  other  citizens  of 
the  United  States,  irrespective  of  past  political  associa- 
tions, ...  to  join  in  sending  delegates  to  the  na- 
tional convention." 

But  if  such  appeals  have  been  made  by  the  national 
representatives  of  the  parties,  those  in  the  States  have 
been  even  more  solicitous  to  gain  independent  sup- 
port. This  is  due  to  the  fact  not  only  that  political 
initiative  must  begin  in  State  conventions,  but  that, 
in  addition  to  questions  of  national  policy,  those  of 
State  interest  must  be  considered  and  settled  there. 
In  many  cases  a  party  finds  that  the  policy  of  its  lead- 
ers on  a  given  local  or  State  issue  has  had  a  tendency 


952 


TOPICS   OF  THE    TIME. 


to  imperil  its  success  in  what  are  generally  deemed  the 
more  important  questions  of  national  policy ;  and  in 
order  to  overcome  this  defection  it  must  draw  votes 
from  other  elements. 

The  appeal  to  the  independent  voter,  which  has 
been  answered  so  emphatically  during  late  years,  had 
its  first  open  development  just  after  the  close  of  the 
presidential  canvass  of  1872,  when  the  war  issues  be- 
gan to  pall  on  the  public  mind.  The  party  then  in 
power  had  been  forced  to  meet  an  open  revolt,  in 
which  many  of  its  ablest  and  best  men  had  taken 
part.  It  had  succeeded  in  overcoming  this  and  had 
barely  escaped  defeat.  Even  this  was  due  to  the  re- 
fusal of  a  large  number  of  men  in  the  Democratic 
party  to  cast  their  votes  for  a  lifelong  opponent.  But 
it  had  scarcely  won  the  victory  when  its  leaders  in 
many  States  recognized  that  it  could  not  long  maintain 
power  unless  it  corrected  the  abuses  which  had  de- 
veloped within  it.  In  order  to  do  this  it  became  both 
necessary  and  desirable  to  bring  back  to  its  ranks  the 
men  who  had  deserted  it.  No  effort  was  made  to  do 
this  by  subjecting  them  to  severe  criticism,  or  by  re- 
fusing them  recognition.  Just  the  opposite  policy  was 
adopted,  and  what  was  known  as  "  reform  within  the 
party  "  was  attempted.  Once  begun,  this  movement 
soon  extended  to  both  parties,  and  the  highest  pro- 
fessions of  morality  became  the  fashion  in  party  plat- 
forms at  State  conventions. 

The  credit  of  beginning  this  movement  must  be 
given  to  the  Republicans  of  Connecticut,  under  the 
leadership  of  Joseph  R.  Hawley,  now  a  United  States 
senator.  On  February  5,  1873,  they  incorporated  in 
their  platform  the  following  sweeping  condemnation 
of  their  own  party  : 

We  denounce  corruption  of  men  of  all  parties  in  high 
places.  We  have  no  apology  for  those  of  our  own,  but 
desire  the  fullest  investigation  and  demand  the  punish- 
ment of  the  guilty,  conscious  that  the  Republican  party 
is  strong  enough  to  purify  its  own  ranks,  that  it  cannot 
be  strong  if  it  neglects  its  duty  in  this  respect,  and  that 
it  can  only  continue  to  commend  itself  to  the  confidence 
of  the  country  by  purging  itself  of  unworthy  elements. 

The  Republicans  of  Ohio  followed  on  May  21,  with 
the  sweeping  declaration :  "  We  demand  pure  offi- 
cial conduct,  and  the  punishment  of  unfaithful  pub- 
lic men,  State  and  national,  who,  having  betrayed  the 
confidence  freely  extended  to  them,  shall  not  be 
shielded  from  the  disgrace  of  their  acts  by  any  parti- 
sanship of  ours."  And  the  Republicans  of  Minnesota, 
two  months  later,  adopted  as  their  own  the  same 
declaration. 

On  June  25  the  Republicans  of  Iowa  went  a  step 
beyond  their  brethren  in  other  States,  and  announced 
that,  "  to  make  an  end  to  bad  men  forcing  their  elec- 
tions by  securing  a  party  nomination,  we  declare  it  the 
duty  of  every  Republican  to  oppose  the  election  of  a 
bad  and  incompetent  candidate,  whether  he  be  a  can- 
didate upon  our  own  or  upon  any  other  ticket." 

The  Democrats,  not  to  be  outdone  by  their  op- 
ponents, adopted  the  same  policy.  It  first  found  ex- 
pression in  the  West.  On  July  30,  1873,  the  Democrats 
of  Ohio  came  together  in  convention,  in  response  to  a 
call  issued  by  the  Democrats  of  Allen  County.  Among 
the  declarations  of  party  doctrine  was  the  following : 
"  We  declare  against  the  infallibility  of  party,  and 
that  when  the  caucus  or  the  convention  fails  to  present 


fit  candidates  for  office  it  is  the  high  privilege,  as  well 
as  the  bounden  duty,  of  all  good  citizens  to  withhold 
their  votes  from  such  candidates,  and,  regardless  of 
party  affiliations,  to  support  the  best  men  presented 
for  official  position." 

This  had  a  decided  effect  upon  the  regular  organiza- 
tion, which,  in  its  convention  on  August  6th,  resolved, 
"  We  earnestly  appeal  to  the  patriotic  men  of  every 
class,  without  regard  to  party  names  or  past  differences, 
to  unite  with  us  on  terms  of  perfect  equality,  in  the 
struggle  to  rescue  the  Government  from  the  hands  of 
dishonest  men."  The  Democrats  of  Maine  and  Penn- 
sylvania adopted  this  sentiment  as  expressive  of  their 
opinions. 

The  Democrats  of  Maryland,  then,  as  now,  in  power 
in  their  State,  pledged  themselves  to  "  a  careful  scru- 
tiny of  official  conduct,  and  the  prompt  and  vigorous 
punishment  of  all  official  delinquencies."  The  Demo- 
crats of  Iowa  declared,  "  We  will  not  knowingly  nom- 
inate any  bad  man  to  office,  .  .  .  and  will  at  the  polls 
repudiate  any  candidate  known  to  be  unfit  or  incom- 
petent." In  Massachusetts  the  Democrats  resolved, 
"  We  invite  the  cooperation  and  welcome  to  full  fel- 
lowship in  political  action  all  patriotic  citizens  who 
agree  with  us  in  these  principles." 

The  habit  of  appealing  directly  to  the  conscientious 
and  independent  voter  was  not  dropped.  In  nearly 
every  State,  South  as  well  as  North,  he  was  made  to  know 
his  own  power.  The  Democrats  of  New  York  in  1875 
again  invited  "  the  cooperation  of  every  true  Demo- 
crat, every  Liberal  Republican,  and  all  our  fellow-citi- 
zens, of  whatever  party  name."  The  Republicans  of  the 
same  State  in  their  convention  to  choose  delegates  to 
the  national  convention  of  1876  asked  everybody  to 
unite  with  them  in  carrying  out  their  declared  pur- 
poses. In  the  same  year  the  Democrats  of  South 
Carolina  resolved,  "  We  call  upon  all  patriot  sons  of 
South  Carolina  to  join  us  " ;  and  in  the  following  year 
the  representatives  of  the  same  party  in  Mississippi 
declared,  "  We  invite  the  cooperation  of  citizens, 
without  regard  to  past  differences,  in  support  of  the 
candidates  nominated  by  this  convention."  The  Mas- 
sachusetts Democrats  appealed  to  "  all  good  citizens, 
regardless  of  their  politics  or  party  associations  ",•  wThile 
the  New  York  Republicans  issued  a  summons  to  "  all 
good  citizens  "  to  unite  with  them. 

In  1878  the  Democrats  of  Connecticut  asked  the 
support  of  "all  voters,"  and  those  of  Massachusetts 
called  upon  "all  citizens,  of  whatever  political  views" 
to  unite  with  them.  In  1879  the  Maryland  Democrats, 
after  commending  their  ticket  to  their  own  followers, 
asked  the  "approval  of  all  other  good  citizens."  In 
1882,  when,  after  many  years  of  exclusion  from  power, 
the  Democrats  of  Pennsylvania  elected  their  State 
ticket,  they  did  so  after  having  formally  invited  "the 
cooperation  of  all  honest  citizens." 

It  is  not  necessary  to  quote  further  from  party  ut- 
terances to  show  that  the  independent  voters  have  not 
come  unbidden  to  the  political  feast.  Their  course 
needs  no  defense.  At  many  a  crisis  in  the  politics  of 
the  separate  States  and  of  the  United  States  these  same 
voters,  the  men  who  have  refused  slavishly  to  follow 
corrupt  or  designing  party  leaders,  have  proved  them- 
selves the  saving  power. 

Whenever  the  dominance  of  a  party  depended  merely 
upon  the  momentum  given  it  by  some  great  leader,  or 


TOPICS   OF  THE    TIME. 


953 


attachment  to  some  great  principle,  formulated  under 
past  conditions,  then  a  large  and  influential  body  of 
voters  have  been  ready  for  independent  political  action. 
vSo  long  as  parties  have  remained  intelligent  as  well  as 
active  and  aggressive,  they  have  been  able  to  divide 
the  allegiance  of  thoughtful  and  unselfish  voters  ;  but 
when  an  earnest  and  living  patriotism  in  one  party  has 
been  met  by  supineness  or  trust  in  party  traditions 
in  the  other,  the  independent  voter  has  uniformly  dis- 
turbed the  balance  of  politics.  It  is  this,  universally 
recognized  above  all  the  clamor  of  partisans,  though 
not  always  confessed,  that  has  made  ours  the  most 
conservative  government  in  the  world. 

A  Test  of  Good  Citizenship. 

The  people  of  New  York  are  so  used  to  having  their 
city  elections  and  their  city  government  run  for  them  by 
groups  of  interested  persons  ;  they  are  so  accustomed 
to  the  expert  rule  of  the  Bosses  and  the  Boys,  that  it 
affords  a  good  deal  of  amusement,  even  outside  of  the 
Boys  themselves,  when  a  company  of  reputable  citi- 
zens go  to  work,  in  an  entirely  disinterested  spirit, 
to  try  to  get  fit  men  elected  and  appointed  to  the  public 
offices  —  in  other  words,  to  rescue  the  city  govern- 
ment from  private  to  public  uses. 

"  Reformers  "  are  always  sneered  at  by  the  profes- 
sional politicians  and  their  friends  (and  sometimes  by 
people  who  would  not  like  to  be  classed  among  the 
"friends  "of  the  Boys)  as  nothing  but  "  amateurs  "; 
somewhat  as  if  an  honest  citizen  called  upon  to  defend 
his  house  against  a  burglar  should  be  gibed  at  by  the 
burglar  as  nothing  but  an  "  amateur  "  who  ought  to 
be  sleeping  quietly  in  his  bed,  and  not  thus  clum- 
sily interfering  with  the  accomplished  industry  of 
"  professionals." 

It  may  be  suspected  that  neither  the  ridicule  nor  the 
mirth  of  the  professional  politician,  and  of  his  jour- 
nalistic, business,  or  social  partner,  is  quite  as  self- 
comforting  and  hilarious  as  it  seems ;  for  though  the 
cynic  is  always  underestimating  the  virtue  inherent 
in  the  individual  and  in  the  community,  he  yet  occa- 
sionally has  an  unexpected  lesson  as  to  the  weight  of 
the  kick  of  that  mysterious  beast  Public  Opinion,  and 
thus  a  thread  of  anxiety  is  often  woven  in  the  warp  of 
his  happy  humor. 

The  gibing  cynic  with  his  sense  of  humor  is,  more- 
over, quite  apt  to  underestimate  the  sense  of  humor 
of  others.  Indeed,  the  reformer  himself  may  be  pos- 
sessed of  quite  as  much  of  this  saving  sense  as  his 
critic ;  and  then  the  public,  too,  have  a  funny-bone  which 
if  struck  by  the  Boy,  or  the  Boss,  may  result  in  sudden 
and  terrible  disaster  to  the  striker.  There  is  no  more 
"  practical "  element  in  a  campaign  than  the  deadly 
humor  of  the  cartoonist  — and  there  is  a  humorous  as- 
pect to  such  "  rings  "  as  those  which  have  at  various 
times  possessed  our  city  government,  which  the  car- 
toonist and  the  newspaper  wit  have  brought  out  with 
tremendous  effect. 

At  the  time  of  writing  this  the  programme  of  the 
People's  Municipal  League  of  New  York  has  not  been 
fully  announced,  but  it  would  seem  probable  that 
every  voter  in  the  city  will  be  forced  at  the  next 
municipal  election  to  a  test  of  his  public  spirit,  and 
often  of  his  moral  courage.  The  rogues  alone  could 
never  debauch  our  city,  State,  or  national  politics  ; 
they  get  their  opportunity  and  power  through  the 
Vol.  XL. —  127. 


weak  acquiescence  of  "  respectable  "  citizens.  So  if 
the  government  of  New  York  remains,  as  now,  largely 
in  the  hands  of  a  sordid  group  who  run  it  for  what 
they  can  make  out  of  it,  it  will  be  by  the  action  of  men 
who  claim  to  be  "  good  citizens,"  but  who  are,  in 
point  of  fact,  the  efficient  allies  of  the  most  depraved 
elements  of  the  community.  We  confess  to  more 
respect  for  the  "  toughs  "  who  fight  in  politics  only  as 
they  have  been  taught  from  youth  up,  than  for  their 
"gentlemen"  allies  who  fear  lest  their  own  personal 
success  may  be  interfered  with  should  they  seem  to 
break  with  their  party  or  party  friends,  or  stand  opposed 
to  some  influential  ring,  by  voting  on  city  affairs  with- 
out regard  to  national  issues.  But  until  such  voting 
is  the  rule  in  New  York  our  municipal  government 
will  be  a  reproach  to  republican  institutions. 

The  Merit  System  in  the  Fifty-first  Congress. 

Not  since  the  passage  of  the  Pendleton  bill,  in  1883, 
have  there  been  such  important  legislative  contests 
over  the  merit  system  of  making  appointments  in  the 
civil  service  as  have  just  occurred  in  the  first  session 
of  the  present  Congress.  There  are  now  nearly  a  hun- 
dred and  fifty  thousand  offices  in  the  gift  of  the  Na- 
tional Government ;  and  under  the  old  vicious  spoils 
or  patronage  system  there  are,  in  whichever  party  is 
dominant  for  the  time  being,  for  every  one  such  office 
at  least  three  or  four  office-seekers,  clamorously  de- 
manding the  reward  of  their  political  activity.  In  other 
words,  there  are  half  a  million  office-brokers  and  office- 
seekers,  patronage-mongers  and  patronage-cravers, 
who  are  directly  interested  in  breaking  down  and  dis- 
crediting the  merit  system  as  the  chief  obstacle  in 
their  way.  Taken  as  a  whole,  they  believe  that  "  the 
Decalogue  and  the  Golden  Rule  have  no  place  in  poli- 
tics " —  in  other  words,  that  lying,  theft,  and  bribery 
are  legitimate  adjuncts  of  what  ought  to  be  the  great 
and  noble  work  of  national  self-government.  They 
trust  much  to  the  indifference  and  apathy  of  the  great 
mass  of  voters,  whose  interest  in  the  maintenance  of  the 
reform  legislation  is  merely  that  which  all  good  citi- 
zens feel  in  seeing  any  just  and  righteous  law  upheld. 

This  half-million  or  so  of  men  who  wish  to  treat 
the  Government  service  as  so  much  plunder  are  of 
course  especially  active  when  the  administration  at 
Washington  is  changed.  It  is  at  such  a  time  that  they 
are  sure  to  make  their  chief  efforts  to  overturn  the 
law.  Naturally,  therefore,  during  the  present  session 
of  Congress  these  adherents  of  the  old  spoils  system 
—  the  self-seeking  politicians,  both  on  and  off  the 
floor,  and  their  allies  among  the  newspapers,  together 
with  all  the  honest  men  who  were  puzzle-headed,  and 
all  the  men  whose  instincts  inclined  them  to  go  wrong 
even  when  they  had  no  interest  in  the  matter  —  united 
to  make  a  resolute  push  against  the  merit  system. 
They  had  neither  the  power  nor  the  courage  to  attempt 
an  open  repeal  of  the  law ;  and  so  they  made  their  at- 
tack in  two  ways  —  they  attempted  to  defeat  the  annual 
appropriation  of  money  to  carry  the  law  into  effect, 
and  they  attempted  by  charges  as  false  as  they  were 
foolish  to  discredit  the  commissioners  to  whose  hands 
its  execution  was  intrusted. 

The  battle  was  thus  joined  in  the  lower  House  of 
Congress.  In  both  attacks  the  enemies  of  the  merit 
system   suffered  complete  defeat.    They  were  beaten 


954 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


two  to  one  in  the  fight  over  the  appropriation  bill; 
and  they  failed,  utterly  and  ignominiously,  to  sustain 
their  charges  of  corruption  and  wrong-doing  when  an 
investigation  was  ordered.  Under  the  circumstances 
the  composition  of  the  House  Committee  on  the  Re- 
form of  the  Civil  Service  was  of  the  utmost  importance, 
and  Speaker  Reed  deserves  great  credit  for  having 
made  up  an  excellent  committee,  of  whose  members 
more  than  a  working  majority  were  stanch  upholders 
of  the  law.  Moreover,  the  cause  was  very  fortunate  in 
the  standing  and  ability  of  the  congressmen  who  were 
its  especial  champions  in  committee  and  on  the  floor. 

The  Massachusetts  and  South  Carolina  members  sup- 
ported the  law  and  its  administration  with  practical 
unanimity.  The  leading  part  in  its  defense  was  taken 
again  and  again  by  Mr.  Henry  Cabot  Lodge  of  Massa- 
chusetts, who  was  the  first  to  take  the  floor  on  its  be- 
half, and  to  stem  the  tide  which,  at  the  moment, 
seemed  to  be  flowing  strongly  against  it.  His  col- 
leagues from  the  same  State,  Messrs.  Greenhalge  and 
Andrew,  likewise  gave  it  hearty  support.  That  Mr. 
Dargan  of  South  Carolina  should  be  one  of  its  fore- 
most champions  was  to  be  expected. 

To  no  one,  however,  is  a  greater  debt  due  than  to 
Mr.  Butterworth  of  Ohio,  his  exceptional  brilliancy  as 
a  debater,  his  parliamentary  skill,  and  the  high  regard 
in  which  he  is  held  by  the  entire  House  rendering 
him  able  to  do  invaluable  service.  Space  does  not  per- 
mit the  mention  of  the  many  others  who  stood  up 
manfully  for  a  clean  and  non-partisan  system  of  gov- 
ernmental administration ;  but  particularly  effective 
work  must  be  credited  to  Mr.  Bayne  of  Pennsylvania, 


Mr.  Lehlbach  of  New  Jersey,  Mr.  McKinley  of  Ohio, 
Mr.  Henderson  of  Iowa,  Mr.  Hopkins  of  Illinois,  Mr. 
Moore  of  New  Hampshire,  Mr.  McComas  of  Maryland, 
Mr.  Tracey  of  New  York,  Mr.  Blount  of  Georgia,  Mr. 
Boatner  of  Louisiana,  and  Mr.  Dockery  of  Missouri. 

The  defenders  of  the  merit  system  on  the  floor  of 
Congress  represented  in  their  attitude  on  this  question 
both  the  virtue  and  the  common  sense  of  the  country. 
The  spoils  system  is  as  absurd  and  unreasonable  as  it 
is  demoralizing.  As  Mr.  Lodge  ably  shows  in  his 
Century  article,  it  really  has  no  right  to  exist  in  a 
free  country.  Personally,  we  cannot  agree  with  every 
comment  made  by  Mr.  Lodge  in  his  present  article, 
but  we  think  it  contains  one  of  the  strongest,  most 
spirited  and  convincing  statements  yet  made  in  favor 
of  the  merit  system  and  in  opposition  to  the  system 
of  spoils ;  which  he  clearly  proves  to  be  "  a  system 
born  of  despotisms  and  aristocracies,"  "a  system  of 
favoritism  and  nepotism,  of  political  influence  and  per- 
sonal intrigue,"  and  "as  un-American  as  anything 
could  well  be." 

The  remarks  of  this  Republican  leader  are  most  in- 
terestingly supplemented  by  the  Open  Letter  by  the 
Democratic  member  of  the  United  States  Civil  Service 
Commission,  the  Hon.  Hugh  S.  Thompson  of  South 
Carolina,  who  was  twice  governor  of  that  State,  and 
who  was  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  under 
President  Cleveland.  Every  disinterested  citizen  who 
reads  these  powerful  pleas  for  fair  play  and  business- 
like dealing  in  connection  with  our  public  service  will 
wish  to  put  his  shoulder  to  the  wheel  and  push  forward 
the  reform  to  its  utmost  limit. 


OPEN    LETTERS. 


The  Merit  System. 

AN   OPEN   LETTER   BY   COMMISSIONER   THOMPSON. 

THE  civil  service,  as  the  expression  is  now  generally 
used,  is  taken  to  mean  that  portion  of  the  public 
service  to  which  entrance  is  obtained  under  the  pro- 
visions of  "An  act  to  regulate  and  improve  the  civil 
service  of  the  United  States,"  which  was  approved 
January  16,  1883. 

This  use  of  the  term  civil  service  is  misleading.  All 
branches  of  the  Government  except  the  military  and  the 
naval  service  are  in  the  civil  service,  without  regard  to 
whether  appointments  in  them  are  filled  under  the  pa- 
tronage system  or  the  examination  system.  The  proper 
term  to  designate  the  latter  is  the  merit  system.  The 
service  covered  by  this  system  includes  all  places  in  the 
classified  civil  service  —  about  thirty  thousand  in  number 
—  to  which  admission  is  obtained  through  examinations 
intended  to  test  the  merits  of  applicants  regardless  of 
their  personal  or  political  influence.  This  service  now 
embraces  the  ordinary  clerkships  in  the  departments  at 
Washington,  in  eleven  of  the  largest  customs  districts, 
in  forty-five  post-offices,  and  in  the  railway  mail  service. 

It  is  not  proposed  in  this  article  to  discuss  the  rela- 
tive merits  of  the  patronage  system  and  of  the  merit 
system.  It  may  safely  be  assumed  that  whatever  mod- 
ifications may  be  made  in  the  merit  system  as  it  now 
exists  its  essential  features  will  remain  unchanged.    It 


may  suit  the  taste  and  temper  of  the  opponents  of  the 
merit  system  to  decry  it  and  denounce  it  as  un-Amer- 
ican ;  but  the  people  at  large,  who  are  more  interested 
in  the  purity  and  efficiency  of  the  public  service  than 
in  the  individuals  who  fill  the  offices,  will  rebuke  sternly 
every  attempt  to  return  to  the  spoils  system.  Here- 
after no  political  party  will  dare  enter  a  contest  for 
the  Presidency  avowing  as  its  purpose  in  the  event  of 
success^  to  restore  the  patronage  system,  the  inevitable 
tendency  of  which  is  to  corrupt  the  public  service.  A 
distinguished  opponent  of  the  merit  system  said  re- 
cently that  his  confidence  in  the  members  of  the  Cab- 
inet was  such  that  he  preferred  to  trust  appointments 
to  them  rather  than  to  have  them  made  through  the 
machinery  of  the  Civil  Service  Commission.  The  fact 
is,  however,  that  under  the  spoils  system  selections 
for  appointment  are  made  not  by  cabinet  ministers,  but 
by  influential  persons  in  sympathy  politically  with  the 
party  in  power,  and  usually  as  a  reward  for  zealous 
party  services.  It  would  be  impossible  for  any  mem- 
ber of  the  Cabinet  to  give  the  time  and  attention  needed 
for  the  selection  of  his  subordinates,  even  if  the  place- 
hunters  and  their  friends  permitted  him  to  do  so.  A 
correct  understanding  of  the  merit  system  will  contrib- 
ute to  its  growth,  to  the  great  benefit  of  the  public 
service  and  therefore  of  the  people  of  the  country.  A 
brief  statement  of  the  methods  and  of  some  of  the  re- 
sults of  this  system  will,  it  is  believed,  be  useful  at  this 
time. 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


955 


The  Civil  Service  Commission  is  composed  of  three 
persons,  appointed  by  the  President  by  and  with  the 
advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  not  more  than  two 
of  whom  shall  be  adherents  of  the  same  political  party. 
The  giving  representation  on  the  board  to  both  polit- 
ical parties  is  a  wise  provision,  intended  to  insure  non- 
partisan action  by  the  Commission.  It  is  essential  to 
the  proper  working  of  the  merit  system  that  the  ex- 
aminations be  fair  and  impartial  as  well  as  practical, 
so  as  to  test  the  fitness  of  applicants  for  the  work  which 
will  be  required  of  them.  There  are  three  steps  in  the 
examination.  First,  the  application,  which  must  be  in 
the  handwriting  of  the  applicant,  giving  in  answer  to 
carefully  prepared  questions  a  brief  history  of  himself, 
accompanied  by  satisfactory  evidence  that  he  is  a  citi- 
zen of  the  State  or  Territory  in  which  he  claims  resi- 
dence, and  by  certificates  of  persons  residing  in  the  same 
State  or  Territory  as  to  his  character  and  reputation. 
An  applicant  for  the  position  of  railway  mail  clerk 
must  also  file  the  certificate  of  a  physician  as  to  his  phys- 
ical condition.  The  second  step  is  the  scholastic  ex- 
amination, which  is  wholly  in  writing.  Each  applicant 
signs  his  examination  papers  with  a  number,  and  the 
name  of  any  applicant  who  makes  known  his  number 
before  his  papers  are  marked  by  the  examiners  is 
stricken  from  the  rolls.  The  papers  of  all  applicants 
are  marked  by  a  board  of  examiners  composed  of  mem- 
bers of  both  political  parties,  the  names  of  those  who 
obtain  eligible  averages  —  seventy  per  cent. —  being 
entered  upon  the  register  in  the  order  of  merit  as  shown 
by  the  marks.  When  vacancies  occur  in  the  classified 
service  they  are  filled  by  promotion,  or  by  selection 
from  the  eligible  lists  of  the  Commission.  In  the  latter 
case,  upon  requisition  of  the  appointing  officer  the 
names  of  the  three  persons  standing  highest  upon  the 
register  from  which  certification  is  made  are  submitted 
to  him  from  which  to  make  a  selection.  From  these 
names  he  must  choose  one,  though  he  may,  if  the  needs 
of  the  service  require  it,  appoint  all  three.  Each  eligi- 
ble is  entitled  to  three  certifications  during  the  period 
of  his  eligibility,  that  period  being  one  year,  except  in 
certain  special  cases.  The  third  step  in  the  examina- 
tion is  the  probationary  appointment,  which  forms  the 
practical  test  of  the  fitness  of  the  applicant.  The  officer 
under  whom  a  probationer  is  serving  is  required  to 
keep  a  record  and  to  make  a  report  of  his  punctuality, 
industry,  habits,  ability,  and  aptitude,  and  if  the  pro- 
bationer's conduct  and  capacity  are  satisfactory  he 
receives  absolute  appointment  at  the  close  of  his  proba- 
tionary term,  which  is  six  months.  No  probationer  can 
receive  absolute  appointment  until  all  these  require- 
ments have  been  complied  with,  but  he  may  be  dis- 
missed at  any  time  if  he  should  prove  incompetent  or 
his  service  is  unsatisfactory.  That  the  three  steps  thus 
described  have  been  found  in  practice  well  adapted 
to  testing  the  qualifications  of  applicants  is  shown  by 
the  fact  that  ninety-eight  per  cent,  of  the  probationers 
certified  by  the  Civil  Service  Commission  have  received 
absolute  appointments.  The  utmost  vigilance  is  exer- 
cised to  prevent  fraud  in  each  step  of  the  examination. 
The  chances  that  fraud  will  be  practiced  successfully 
are  very  small,  and  are  certainly  no  greater  than  in 
any  other  department  of  the  Government  in  which  im- 
portant transactions  are  made  daily,  based  upon  the 
confidence  which  superior  officers  must  repose  in  their 
subordinates.    Fraud  in  the  examinations  can  rarely,  if 


ever,  be  committed  except  by  collusion  between  an  ap- 
plicant and  all  the  members  of  a  board  of  examiners. 
These  boards  are  composed  of  men  carefully  selected  be- 
cause of  special  fitness  for  their  work,  whose  character 
and  qualifications  furnish  every  guarantee  that  their 
duties  will  be  discharged  honestly  and  efficiently.  Be- 
sides the  well-devised  checks  against  deception  which 
the  Commission  and  the  examiners  employ,  there  is  an- 
other and  a  very  strong  one  furnished  by  the  applicants 
themselves,  who  will  be  quick  to  discern  and  ready  to 
expose  any  wrong-doing  by  those  with  whom  they 
compete.  Between  the  vigilance  of  the  examiners  on 
the  one  hand  and  the  jealous  watchfulness  of  the  candi- 
dates on  the  other,  fraud  will  rarely  escape  detection. 

What  has  been  said  of  the  examinations  refers  spe- 
cially to  those  held  at  Washington.  It  does  not  apply 
equally  to  the  examinations  held  at  the  custom-houses 
and  post-offices.  This  arises  not  from  fraud,  but  from 
the  fact  that  it  is  not  possible  to  select  the  members  of 
the  local  examining  boards  with  the  same  care  as  is 
exercised  in  choosing  the  central  board  at  Washing- 
ton. The  local  boards  are  generally  composed  of 
clerks  who,  even  if  they  have  the  ability  and  training, 
seldom  have  the  time  for  the  satisfactory  performance 
of  the  duties  of  examiners.  The  remedy  for  this  evil  is 
to  increase  the  clerical  force  of  the  Commission  so  as 
to  permit  the  marking  of  all  examination  papers  at 
Washington.  In  this  way  alone  can  accuracy  and 
uniformity  in  marking  the  papers  of  applicants  for  po- 
sitions in  custom-houses  and  post-offices 'be  attained. 
This  additional  force  would  cost  about  $32,000  a  year, 
an  insignificant  sum  when  compared  with  the  impor- 
tance of  the  work. 

There  is  probably  nothing  in  the  merit  system 
which  gives  its  opponents  more  apparent  concern  than 
the  character  of  the  questions  asked  of  applicants.  On 
this  subject  no  joke  is  too  old  to  meet  with  hearty 
favor,  no  story  too  absurd  to  find  willing  believers. 
The  constant  aim  of  the  Commission  is  to  make  the 
questions  practical,  and  the  best  evidence  that  in  this 
respect  a  good  measure  of  success  has  been  attained 
is  found  in  the  fact  that  the  questions  of  which  com- 
plaint is  made  generally  have  no  existence  except  in 
the  imagination  of  the  complainants.  In  the  Sixth 
Annual  Report  of  the  Civil  Service  Commission  is  a 
frank  and  fair  statement  of  the  character  of  the  exami- 
nations, and  a  complete  answer  to  those  who  charge 
that  the  questions  used  are  not  "practical." 

Exceptionally  good  opportunities  for  observation 
justify  me  in  asserting  that  the  following  are  among 
the  benefits  to  the  public  service  resulting  from  the 
merit  system. 

(1)  It  has  taken  the  appointment  of  about  30,000 
of  the  minor  clerical  positions  out  of  politics.  The 
appointing  officer  does  not  know  who  will  be  certified 
to  him  to  fill  vacancies,  and  therefore  he  can  have  no 
motive  except  the  good  of  the  service  for  making 
removals. 

(2)  It  secures  a  fair  distribution  of  appointments  on 
the  basis  of  population.  Under  the  spoils  system  ap- 
pointments were  made  because  of  personal  or  political 
influence  without  regard  to  population.  The  unfair 
distribution  of  the  offices  now  existing  in  the  depart- 
ments at  Washington  is  one  of  the  evil  results  of  the 
spoils  system  which  the  merit  system  was  designed 
to  correct,  and  which  it  is  gradually  correcting. 


956 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


(3)  It  furnishes  a  better  class  of  clerks,  and  conse- 
quently abetter  public  service.  This  is  especially  true 
of  those  branches  of  the  service  requiring  technical 
skill  and  knowledge. 

The  average  age  of  those  who  pass  the  ordinary  de- 
partmental examination  is  twenty-eight  years.  This 
fact  is  the  best  answer  to  the  oft-repeated  assertion 
that  the  examinations  are  especially  suited  to  boys 
fresh  from  school  or  college.  Through  the  merit  sys- 
tem the  Government  secures  the  services  of  persons 
who  to  at  least  a  fair  common-school  education  have 
added  some  experience  in  business. 

(4)  It  insures  that  permanence  in  office  which  is  es- 
sential to  good  administration.  An  officer  of  high  char- 
acter who  has  been  for  many  years  in  the  civil  service 
of  the  Government  recently  gave  it  as  the  result  of  his 
observation  that  under  the  patronage  system  the  pe- 
riod intervening  between  the  election  and  the  inaugura- 
tion of  a  President  was  marked  by  demoralization  of 
the  service  which  diminished  the  efficiency  of  the  ordi- 
nary clerk  at  least  fifty  per  cent.  Employees  of  the 
Government,  uncertain  of  their  future,  neglected  their 
duties  to  seek  influence  to  secure  their  retention  or  pro- 
motion. What  percentage  of  removals  usually  fol- 
lowed a  change  of  administration  cannot  be  stated,  but 
it  may  safely  be  asserted  that  it  was  greater  under  the 
spoils  system  when  the  different  administrations  were 
of  the  same  party  than  under  the  merit  system,  which 
within  the  last  five  years  has  stood  the  crucial  test  of 
two  changes  as  between  the  two  great  political  parties. 
The  records  show  that  of  those  who  entered  the  classi- 
fied service  through  the  merit  system  the  removals  and 
resignations  under  the  administration  of  President 
Cleveland  averaged  from  three  to  eight  per  cent,  a  year, 
and  that  in  one  year  of  the  administration  of  President 
Harrison  similar  changes  averaged  a  little  less  than 
eight  per  cent.  These  figures  teach  the  valuable  lesson 
that  retention  and  promotion  in  the  classified  depart- 
mental service  depend  upon  merit,  and  not  upon  the 
personal  or  political  influence  which  employees  can 
bring  to  bear  upon  an  appointing  officer.  The  result- 
ing benefit  to  the  public  service  is  obvious.  Mr.  Sec- 
retary Windom  in  his  last  annual  report  to  Congress 
found  time  amid  the  exacting  duties  of  his  great  office 
to  bear  testimony  to  the  value  of  the  merit  system.  I 
quote  only  a  part  of  what  he  said  on  this  subject. 

"  It  is  my  belief  that  the  personnel  and  efficiency  of 
the  service  have  been  in  no  way  lowered  by  the  present 
method  of  appointments  to  clerical  positions  in  the  de- 
partment. The  beneficial  influences  of  the  civil  service 
law  in  its  practical  workings  are  clearly  apparent. 
Having  been  at  the  head  of  the  department  both  be- 
fore and  after  its  adoption,  I  am  able  to  judge  by  com- 
parison of  the  two  systems,  and  have  no  hesitation  in 
pronouncing  the  present  condition  of  affairs  as  prefera- 
ble in  all  respects.  Under  the  old  plan  appointments 
were  usually  made  to  please  some  one  under  political 
or  other  obligations  to  the  appointee,  and  the  question 
of  fitness  was  not  always  the  controlling  one.  The 
temptation  to  make  removals  only  to  provide  places 
for  others  was  always  present  and  constantly  being 
urged  by  strong  influences,  and  this  restless  and  fever- 
ish condition  of  departmental  life  did  much  to  distract 
and  disturb  the  even  current  of  routine  work.  Under 
instrumentalities  which  are  now  used  to  secure  selec- 
tions for  clerical  places  the  department  has  some  as- 


surance of  mental  capacity,  and  also  of  moral  worth, 
as  the  character  of  the  candidates  is  ascertained  before 
examination." 

I  trust  it  will  be  deemed  pardonable  State  pride  if  I 
call  attention  to  the  record  of  my  own  State  with  ref- 
erence to  the  merit  system.  On  the  22d  of  December, 
1884,  both  houses  of  the  legislature  of  South  Carolina 
adopted  the  following  resolution : 

Whereas  the  general  assembly  of  the  State  of  South 
Carolina  did,  at  the  regular  session  of  1880,  adopt  a  con- 
current resolution,  to  wit : 

' '  Resolved  by  the  House  of  'Representatives ;  the  Senate  con- 
curring, That  our  senators  and  representatives  in  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States  be  requested  to  urge  Con- 
gress to  take  such  measures  as  may  be  expedient  for  the 
reformation  of  the  civil  service,  so  that  the  tenure  of 
office  under  the  General  Government  may  no  longer  be 
dependent  upon  party  success  nor  subject  to  levy  by 
means  of  forced  pecuniary  contributions  to  any  political 
party,  and  so  that  capacity  and  character  shall  be  the 
test  of  fitness  for  office  and  the  sole  but  certain  guarantee 
of  its  tenure  "  ; 

And  whereas  this  general  assembly,  in  view  of  the 
change  in  the  administration  of  the  National  Govern- 
ment, desires  to  reiterate  and  reaffirm  the  principles  and 
policy  of  the  said  resolution  : 

Be  it  now  resolved  by  the  House  of  Representatives,  the 
Senate  concurring,  That  this  general  assembly  adheres 
to  the  same,  and  tenders  to  the  administration  of  the 
President-elect  the  approval  and  support  of  the  people 
of  this  State  in  carrying  out  the  provisions  of  the  law  in 
regard  to  civil  service  reform. 

Resolved,  That  his  Excellency  the  governor  is  hereby 
requested  to  forward  a  copy  of  this  resolution  to  Presi- 
dent Cleveland  when  he  shall  have  been  inaugurated. 

These  resolutions  were  passed  after  the  election  and 
before  the  inauguration  of  President  Cleveland  by  a  leg- 
islature a  majority  of  whose  members  in  both  branches 
were  politically  in  sympathy  with  him.  They  ex- 
press briefly  and  forcibly  the  cardinal  principles  of  the 
merit  system.  I  do  not  claim  that  the  opponents  of 
that  system  are  necessarily  corrupt  politicians,  nor 
that  its  advocates  have  a  monopoly  of  the  political  vir- 
tues, but  I  do  claim  that  it  is  thoroughly  American 
and  in  perfect  harmony  with  the  theory  of  our  gov- 
ernment, in  that  it  recognizes  the  equality  of  all  men 
before  the  law,  and  makes  merit  the  sole  test  for  pub- 
lic office. 

Hugh  S.  Thompson. 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Does  Vivisection  Help  ? 

It  may  not  be  out  of  place  to  reexamine  the  foun- 
dation for  some  of  the  great  claims  now  made  for  recent 
advances  in  medicine  and  surgery.  Some  light  may 
be  thrown  upon  this  subject  by  other  discoveries  — 
the  discovery,  for  instance,  in  Sanskrit  and  classical 
literature  of  full  descriptions  of  certain  medical  and 
surgical  methods  and  appliances  in  use  among  the 
ancients. 

In  some  cases,  as,  for  instance,  from  the  excavations 
at  Pompeii,  instruments  have  been  found,  both  surgical 
and  dental,  almost  identical  with  our  own.  In  others,  as 
in  the  works  of  Hippocrates  and  in  the  "  Susruta," 
a  commentary  on  the  "  Yajur  Veda  "  of  the  Hindus,  full 
descriptions  are  given  of  more  than  a  hundred  surgical 
instruments  of  steel ;  of  many  kinds  of  bandages ;  and 
the  specifications  for  a  splint,  like  the  patented  bamboo 
splint  now  in  use  by  British  army  surgeons.  Susruta 
also  describes  surgical  operations  which  are  claimed  as 
crowning  glories  of  nineteenth-century  surgery.    The 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


957 


surgical  operation  for  the  stone,  and  the  rhinoplastic,  or 
that  which  consists  in  making  an  artificial  nose  from 
flesh  and  skin  taken  from  the  patient's  own  forehead, 
were  fully  known  and"  practiced  by  the  ancient  Hindus. 

And  finally,  the  antiseptic  treatment  of  wounds,  one 
of  the  glories  of  modern  surgery,  is  proved  to  be  a  re- 
discovery. Hippocrates,  in  his  book  on  wounds,  which 
is  a  small  manual  on  this  method  of  treatment,  describes 
it,  and  calls  it  by  the  Greek  word  for  non-putrescible. 
The  plain  truth  seems  to  be  that  the  ancients  knew 
pretty  nearly  as  much  as  we  do  about  surgery  and 
medicine ;  for  it  unfortunately  happens  that  with  all  our 
increased  scientific  knowledge  of  disease,  its  etiology, 
its  diagnosis  and  prognosis,  we  have  arrived  at  the 
conclusion  that  the  "expectant  treatment,"  or  the  art 
of  letting  the  disease  severely  alone,  is  the  most  scien- 
tific way  of  curing  it  —  in  other  words,  nature  will  effect 
the  cure  herself  if  we  do  not  meddle  with  her.  Cer- 
tainly we  run  less  risk  of  being  killed  by  the  doctors 
nowadays  than  at  any  other  period  of  the  world's  his- 
tory, but  this  can  scarcely  be  claimed  to  the  physicians' 
credit.  The  success  of  homeopathy  is  simply  the  suc- 
cess of  the  expectant  treatment,  just  as  the  success  of 
the  so-called  antiseptic  treatment  is  due  to  the  high 
ritual  of  perfect  and  microscopic  cleanliness.  Even 
educated  surgeons  could  not  be  brought  to  see  the  ne- 
cessity for  absolute  cleanliness  in  their  operations  till 
Professor  Lister,  with  the  genius  of  a  great  discoverer, 
elevated  it  into  a  dogma  with  a  Greek  name,  and  elab- 
orated a  ritual  as  complicated  and  significant  as  that 
of  the  Roman  Church.  Looking  round  the  dirty  wards 
of  the  ill-managed  hospitals,  where  patients  lay  fester- 
ing and  rotting  in  their  own  discharges,  where  noxious 
emanations  from  ill-dressed  wounds  poisoned  the  at- 
mosphere and  penetrated  all  the  walls  and  ceilings, 
Professor  Lister  made  up  his  mind  that  doctors  and 
patients  should  be  compelled  to  wash  and  be  clean; 
to  ventilate,  scour,  purify,  and  scrub,  though  a  cere- 
monial as  troublesome  and  costly  as  the  Jewish  should 
have  to  be  invented  for  the  purpose. 

If,  however,  this  microscopic  cleanliness  can  be 
reached  more  simply  and  directly,  so  much  the  better  ; 
the  point  is  that  absolute  cleanliness  shall  be  secured, 
the  means  by  which  it  is  attained  being  comparatively 
unimportant. 

All  the  nonsense  talked  about  the  experiments  upon 
living  animals  which  enabled  Lister  to  discover  and 
perfect  his  new  system  did  not  blind  the  eyes  of  the 
great  surgeons  of  the  old  school  to  the  fact  that  plain 
water  efficiently  used  was  every  whit  as  good  as  the 
carbolic-acid  dressings,  which  killed  the  wonderful 
"  germs  "  said  to  be  the  cause  of  the  pyaemia  and  surgi- 
cal fever  which  kills  the  patients.  The  plain  truth  is  that 
experiments  on  animals  had  no  more  to  do  with  these 
improvements  in  modern  surgery  than  they  had  to  do 
with  the  successful  means  used  by  the  farmer's  wife  in 
securing  the  best  results  of  her  churn  and  milk  dishes. 
Experience  taught  her  that  the  scrubbing-brush  and 
soap  must  unremittingly  be  used  on  all  her  vessels  and 
implements,  or  her  butter  and  cheese  would  infallibly 
spoil.  The  microscope  taught  the  doctors  that  mi- 
crobes and  bacteria  must  be  ruthlessly  fought  with 
similar  weapons.  Vivisection  had  no  more  to  do  with 
turning  out  the  dirty  surgeon,  with  his  contaminated 
tools  and  ligatures,  than  it  had  to  do  with  washing  the 
pails  and  tiling  the  walls  of  the  dairies  of  the  Ayles- 


bury Dairy  Company.  Hear  Mr.  Lawson  Tait,the  great- 
est abdominal  surgeon  in  the  world,  on  this. 

Birmingham,  October  9,  1889. 
Dear  Dr.  Berdoe  :  You  may  take  it  from  me  that 
instead  of  vivisection  having  in  any  way  advanced  ab- 
dominal surgery,  it  has,  on  the  contrary,  had  a  uniform 
tendency  to  retard  it.  This  I  show  to  be  particularly  the 
case  in  operations  upon  the  gall  bladder,  and  refer  you  to 
the  current  number  of  the  "  Edinburgh  Medical  Jour- 
nal," where  in  an  article  I  point  to  the  fact.  As  to  the 
use  of  the  antiseptics  of  Lister,  it  increased  our  mortal- 
ity, prevented  recoveries,  and  did  a  vast  deal  of  harm  by 
retarding  true  progress. 

Yours  very  truly, 

Lawson  Tait. 

Hear  also  Sir  William  Savory,  late  President  of  the 
Royal  College  of  Surgeons,  than  whom  no  better  surgi- 
cal authority  exists.  Speaking  at  the  Medical  Congress 
held  in  London  in  1881  he  said  :  "  If  you  examine  the 
records  of  surgery  in  recent  years,  the  fact  that  most 
impresses  you  is  the  very  sudden  and  prodigious  im- 
provement which  has  taken  place  in  certain  quarters. 
At  a  single  spring,  as  it  were,  they  have  passed  from  a 
frightful  mortality  to  a  very  fair  amount  of  success,  and 
this  because  the  mischief  of  filth  and  foulness  from 
putrefaction  has  been  recognized.  Surgical  wards,  not 
long  ago  hotbeds  of  poison,  are  now  made  fairly  safe 
for  patients.  .  .  .  Still,  no  doubt,  some  startling  nov- 
elty of  practice  was  necessary,  or  at  least  greatly  advan- 
tageous, to  this  end,  yet  I  cannot  doubt  that  the  same 
end  might  have  been  reached  by  an  adequate  improve- 
ment in  simple  sanitary  arrangements."  ("Transac- 
tions of  the  International  Medical  Congress."  Vol. 
II.,  p.  347.     London,  1881.) 

The  great  improvements  during  the  last  twenty  years 
in  the  manufacture  of  the  microscope,  coupled  with 
precise  methods  of  cultivating  minute  organisms  — 
microbes  and  bacteria, —  have  enormously  increased  our 
knowledge  of  diseases  caused  by  "  germs  "  ;  and  though 
doubtless  many  experiments  have  been  performed  on 
animals  in  this  connection,  it  is  not  correct  to  attribute 
to  such  methods  successes  which  have  been  achieved 
through  quite  other  means.  It  seems,  however,  that 
with  what  is  known  as  the  scientific  school  of  doctors 
no  practice  or  mode  of  treatment  which  is  not  founded 
on  experimental  research  on  the  lower  animals  is  worth 
much  attention. 

To  the  general  public,  not  versed  in  the  peculiar 
methods  of  controversialists,  especially  of  those  who, 
to  use  an  American  phrase,  have  "an  ax  to  grind," 
nothing  is  more  surprising  or  annoying  than  the  way 
experts  have  of  manipulating  facts  and  figures  to  suit 
their  particular  contentions.  The  world  was  rather 
startled  the  other  day  to  read  some  statistics  which 
went  to  prove  that  drunkards  live  longer  than  total  ab- 
stainers ;  but  even  this  barefaced  attempt  to  "  make  the 
worse  appear  the  better  reason  "  has  been  eclipsed 
within  the  past  few  months  by  an  attempt  to  make  the 
wonderful  success  of  Mr.  Lawson  Tait's  operations  in 
abdominal  surgery  the  result  of  experiments  on  living 
animals.  In  a  late  article  on  "  Recent  Progress  in  Sur- 
gery "  the  author  says,  "  The  most  remarkable  statis- 
tics recently  published  are  those  of  Mr.  Tait,  and  a 
mere  statement  of  his  percentages  will  go  far  to  con- 
vince the  non-medical  public  of  the  correctness  of  the 
above  statements,  startling  as  they  appear  to  one  unfa- 
miliar with  modern  surgical  progress."  To  drag  in 
Mr.  Tait  as  a  witness  in  a  long  and  elaborate  argument 


958 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


on  behalf  of  vivisection,  as  the  letter  just  quoted  as  well 
as  his  published  articles  will  prove,  is  about  as  hon- 
est as  to  make  Luther  speak  in  defense  of  the  Papacy. 
Mr.  Tait  is  unwearying  in  protesting  that  none  of  his 
successes  can  in  any  way  be  attributed  to  experiments 
on  living  animals.  He  published  a  few  years  ago  an  ex- 
ceedingly clever  treatise  entitled  "  The  Uselessness  of 
Vivisection  upon  Animals  as  a  Method  of  Scientific 
Research."  He  says  that  he  never  witnessed  a  single 
experiment  on  a  living  animal  in  the  whole  course  of 
his  medical  education,  and  to  the  present  moment  has 
never  found  it  necessary  to  instruct  his  pupils  by  any 
such  method.  He  is  equally  skeptical  as  to  the  advan- 
tages of  Listerism,  and  thinks  cleanliness  plus  car- 
bolic acid  and  high  ritual  no  whit  better  than  cleanliness 
plus  common  sense.  Yet  his  statistics  are  so  impor- 
tant in  every  argument  relating  to  the  triumphs  of 
modern  surgery  that  they  must  be  made  to  do  duty 
on  the  other  side  whether  he  will  or  no.  Happily  ab- 
dominal tumors,  the  kidney,  spleen,  and  gall-stones  can 
now  be  removed  with  every  promise  of  success,  and 
because  Gross  and  others  experimented  on  dogs  in 
this  direction  it  is  the  fashion  to  say  that  suffering  hu- 
manity owes  its  relief  from  abdominal  maladies  to  the 
operations  on  the  animals ;  but  the  real  history  of  sur- 
gery —  not  the  romance  history  —  teaches  us  that  it 
was  by  Baker  Brown  and  Keith,  working  by  experi- 
ence on  the  indications  offered  by  human  patients, 
that  the  mortality  of  the  abdominal  operations  was 
so  reduced  that  surgeons  were  emboldened  to  attempt 
what  they  now  so  nobly  and  bravely  carry  out.  It  is 
not  because  spleens,  kidneys,  and  portions  of  intestines 
were  successfully  removed  from  dogs  that  surgeons 
learned  to  operate  on  these  organs  in  man,  but  be- 
cause the  bold  dexterity  of  Keith  and  others  in  deal- 
ing with  abdominal  tumors  suggested  the  practica- 
bility of  dealing  successfully  with  organs  lying  in  the 
region  of  the  abdomen.  We  should  have  been  precisely 
where  we  are  now  in  this  respect  if  a  surgeon  had 
never  opened  the  peritoneal  cavity  of  dog  or  rabbit. 
It  is  the  fashion  to  deny  this,  but  there  is  plenty  of 
proof  for  the  statement. 

Then,  as  to  the  surgery  of  the  brain,  it  is  con- 
stantly stated  "  that  without  vivisection  the  exact  lo- 
calization of  cerebral  tumors  and  other  such  lesions, 
which  is  one  of  the  chief  glories  of  the  present  day, 
would  be  impossible."  And  then  we  are  told  of 
the  wonderful  works  in  localization  of  brain  functions 
done  by  Ferrier,  Schafer,  and  Horsley  in  England, 
and  Fritsch,  Hitzig,  and  Goltz  in  Germany.  What  we 
are  not  told  is  that  these  vivisectors  are  not  at  all  in 
harmony  with  each  other,  and  that  it  is  highly  improb- 
able that  either  would  allow  another  to  localize  his 
brain  functions  for  him  with  a  view  to  operating  in 
case  of  necessity  for  surgical  interference  with  his 
skull  and  its  contents.  Dr.  Watts  said  that "  Birds  in 
their  little  nests  agree,"  but  nothing  of  the  sort  could 
be  said  of  the  physiologists  we  have  named,  for  they 
anathematize  one  another  like  rival  theologians,  though, 
like  them,  they  endeavor  to  conceal  their  disagreements 
before  the  heathen,  with  more  or  less  success.  Be- 
tween the  speaking  brain  of  man  and  the  dumb  brain 
of  the  animal  there  can  be  but  little  analogy,  as  Pro- 
fessor Charcot  has  pointed  out.  Even  if  there  were 
an  actual  similarity,  it  would  still  be  useless  to  use  the 
brains  of  animals  for  experiment,  as  accidents  and  inju- 


ries to  the  human  head  have  afforded  surgeons  abun- 
dant opportunity  of  localizing  brain  function,  with 
sufficient  approximation  to  precision,  so  far  as  opera- 
tions for  the  relief  of  abscess,  tumors,  and  injuries  are 
concerned.  It  required  no  experiments  on  monkeys  to 
teach  the  ancients  to  use  the  trephine  for  relieving 
pressure  of  depressed  fracture  of  the  skull;  the  symp- 
toms were  carefully  noted,  and  the  position  of  the 
depressed  bone  indicated  the  area  with  whose  inter- 
ference they  were  concerned.  MacEwen  of  Glasgow 
achieved  astonishing  success  in  this  department  of 
surgery  long  before  Ferrier's  cruel  experiments  on 
monkeys  set  surgeons  to  work  on  the  lines  of  his 
localizations.  Surgery  has  advanced  with  giant  strides  : 
how  much  credit  is  due  to  the  makers  of  surgical  in- 
struments, whose  activity  and  ingenuity  have  done  so 
much  to  aid  its  progress,  we  are  not  likely  to  learn 
from  the  transactions  of  any  medical  society  or  con- 
gress, but  the  fact  remains  that  we  are  indebted  to  a 
great  number  of  very  humble  artificers  for  much  of 
it ;  and  for  the  rest  let  the  patient  workers  in  methods 
which  do  not  dazzle  by  their  fashionable  appeal  to  vul- 
gar preconceptions  have  a  place  in  the  history  of  medi- 
cine, though  their  names  are  not  yet  recorded  in  its 
calendar. 

Edward  Berdoe. 

An  Anecdote  of  Sheridan. 

While  the  United  States  was  engaged  in  the  great 
civil  war,  France  and  Austria  took  advantage  of 
our  comparatively  helpless  condition  to  attempt  the 
conquest  of  Mexico,  with  a  view  to  construct  a  new 
empire  there  under  Maximilian.*  General  Grant  was 
strongly  opposed  to  this  policy,  and  after  Appomattox 
sent  Sheridan  with  an  army  to  the  lower  Rio  Grande 
to  observe  the  movements  of  the  foreigners  and  to  be 
in  readiness  to  intervene  whenever  Congress  gave  per- 
mission. A  colonel  who  was  present  with  that  portion 
of  our  army  which  was  posted  at  Brownsville,  opposite 
Matamoras,  related  the  following  incident,  which  can 
be  recorded  now ;  but  which,  if  it  had  found  its  way 
into  the  newspapers  of  that  day,  would  probably  have 
led  to  international  complications. 

An  orderly  woke  the  colonel  soon  after  daylight  one 
morning  and  urged  him  to  go  down  to  the  bank  of  the 
river,  as' something  remarkable  was  going  on  there. 
The  colonel  did  so,  and  had  the  gratification  of  seeing 
a  combat  —  it  could  hardly  be  called  a  battle  —  between 
the  national  troops,  the  adherents  of  Juarez,  and  the 
Mexicans  who  were  serving  under  the  banner  of  Maxi- 
milian and  who  were  in  possession  of  Matamoras.  The 
object  of  the  Juarez  troops  was,  of  course,  to  drive  the 
enemy  from  Matamoras  and  hold  the  place,  as,  owing 
to  its  proximity  to  the  United  States  forces,  it  was  a 
very  important  point.  Each  side  seemed  to  be  fortified, 
and  was  engaged  in  a  contest  at  long  range,  which 
was  neither  very  exciting  nor  destructive.  The  next 
morning  the  orderly  came  again  to  wake  the  colonel, 
and  assured  him  that  he  would  see  some  genuine  fight- 
ing. The  colonel  hurried  down  to  the  bank,  and  there 
he  saw  the  Juarez  men  leave  their  intrenchments,  ad- 
vance with  the  utmost  intrepidity,  storm  the  works  at 
Matamoras,  and  drive  the  adherents  of  Maximilian 
through  the  town  and  far  beyond  out  into  the  open 
country.  Of  course  Sheridan  could  not  send  a  force  to 
the  other  side  of  the  river  without  the  authority  of 


BRIC-A-BRAC. 


959 


Congress  and  the  War  Department.  That  would  have 
been  an  unheard-of  proceeding.  What  he  did  do  was  to 
give  one  of  his  brigades  a  leave  of  absence,  and  that  settled 
the  question  so  far  as  Matamoras  was  concerned. 

A  few  days  afterwards  an  Austrian  staff  officer  came 
over  and  paid  our  troops  a  visit.  After  a  critical  ex- 
amination he  went  back  and  reported  to  his  chief  that 
there  was  nothing  to  be  done  but  to  give  up  the  contest 
and  go  back  to  Austria. 

Abner  Dotcbleday, 
Bvi.  Major-  General,  United  States  A  rmy. 

Mendham,  Morris  Co.,  N.  J. 

McClellan's  Candidacy  with  the  Army. 

Reference  having  been  made  to  General  McClellan 
as  a  presidential  candidate  in  1864,  on  page  638  of  the 
February  Century,  I  ask  a  few  words  in  which  to 
express  the  feeling  in  the  ranks  of  the  Army  of  the 
Potomac. 

No  one  denies  that  while  the  army  was  commanded 
by  McClellan  the  rank  and  file  hurrahed  at  every  ap- 
pearance of  a  major-general,  and  particularly  so  when 
the  "little  general"  appeared,  but  no  more  so  than 
afterwards  at  the  sight  of  Meade,  Sheridan,  and  Grant. 
The  name  of  McClellan  gradually  dropped,  other  names 
grew  brighter,  and  Lincoln's  name  was  revered. 

When  the  two  parties  had  their  candidates  before 
the  people  in  1864  provisions  of  law  had  been  made 
giving  the  soldiers  the  privilege  of  voting,  and  many 
would  cast  their  first  vote.  They  remembered  that  in 
legislative  bodies  the  supporters  of  McClellan  had 
voted  against  the  "  soldier  suffrage."  They  had  read 
of  the  "  Knights  of  the  Golden  Circle,"  and  they  knew 
every  one  of  them  advocated  McClellan  and  was  an 
enemy  of  Lincoln.  They  had  read  of  the  draft  riots  in 
New  York,  and  had  seen  regiments  leaving  the  army 
to  enforce  the  laws  in  the  chief  commercial  city  of  the 
Union.  They  read  of  the  burning  of  negro  orphan 
asylums,  of  the  dragging  through  the  streets  and  hang- 
ing to  lamp-posts  of  citizens  of  that  city,  and  the  sol- 
diers knew  that  they  who  led  the  mob  were  supporters 
of  McClellan. 

They  knew  that  Governor  Seymour  protested  against 
the  enforcement  of  the  draft  to  fill  their  thinned  ranks. 
They  read  the  proceedings  of  Congress,  and  knew  that 
the  minority  who  voted  against  appropriations  and 
levies  of  men  were  hurrahing  for  "  Little  Mac." 
They  had  read  how  the  governor  of  Indiana  was 
obliged  to  prorogue  the  legislature  and  borrow  money 
from  friends  of  the  Administration  to  supply  Indiana 


soldiers  with  ration  and  uniforms,  and  that  every  fili- 
buster was  vociferous  for  the  Chicago  candidate. 

They  knew  that  the  Thirteenth  Amendment  to  the 
Constitution  failed  of  a  two-thirds  vote,  and  that  every 
"  nay  "  was  by  a  clamorous  friend  of  McClellan.  The 
Wisconsin  soldiers  knew  that  the  legislative  appropri- 
ation of  their  State  to  organize  and  equip  new  regiments, 
and  to  give  the  soldiers  in  the  field  the  right  to  vote,  was 
opposed  by  legislators  who  were  noisy  for  McClellan. 

They  read  the  daily  papers  in  camp  and  on  the 
picket  line  in  close  proximity  to  the  Confederate  vi- 
dette,  describing  McClellan  processions  with  banners 
bearing  the  motto,  "The  war  is  a  failure,"  and  exhibit- 
ing Lincoln  painted  as  a  baboon. 

The  soldiers  knew  of  General  Sheridan's  successes 
in  the  Valley,  that  General  Sherman  had  reached  At- 
lanta, that  Admiral  Farragut  had  passed  the  forts  guard- 
ing the  harbor  of  Mobile,  that  Grant  was  extending 
his  lines  to  the  left ;  they  knew  that  the  thinned  ranks 
made  by  the  battles  in  the  Wilderness,  Spotsylvania, 
Cold  Harbor,  and  all  along  the  line  in  front  of  Peters- 
burg were  not  in  vain,  and  that  all  the  sacrifice  of  human 
life  that  summer  was  necessary,  and  that  the  war  was 
not  a  failure. 

The  writer  spent  a  day  late  in  October,  1864,  in  hos- 
pitals in  Washington,  Georgetown,  and  Alexandria,  with 
comrades  from  Wisconsin,  Indiana,  Michigan,  and  other 
States ;  and  every  one  with  whom  he  spoke,  lying  on 
cots,  emaciated  and  weak  with  fever  and  with  wounded 
bodies,  was  anxious  to  vote  for  Lincoln.  They  could 
read  the  signal  from  the  army,  "  We  are  all  right"; 
that  with  a  "  little  more  grape  "the  war  would  end  ; 
that  the  flag  they  had  followed  so  long  and  fought  for  and 
suffered  for  and  bled  for  would  float  everywhere,  with 
the  Union  cause  triumphant  and  the  war  not  a  failure. 

The  night  after  the  election  news  of  the  result  was 
wired  to  army  headquarters.  It  soon  reached  the  negro 
quarters,  where  loyal  and  fervent  prayers  went  out  for 
the  great  emancipator.  Quickly  the  news  went  from 
tent  to  tent,  from  camp  to  camp  ;  the  glad  tidings  were 
carried  to  the  picket  line,  where  the  sentinels  in  their 
loneliness  commenced  firing,  and  in  language  unmis- 
takable informed  the  Confederates  that  Lincoln  was 
elected. 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  vote  of  Wisconsin 
soldiers  in  the  Army  of  the  Potomac :  Lincoln,  1408, 
McClellan,  266.  The  2d  Wisconsin,  which  had  fought 
from  the  first  Bull  Run,  cast  one  vote  for  McClellan. 


Viroqua,  Wisconsin. 


Earl  M.  Rogers. 


BRIC-A-BRAC. 


To  my  Lost  Luray. 


r 


N  a  box  with  his  brother, 
Each  solacing  the  other, 
The  puppy  left  Virginia  by  express, 
A  gift  to  me.     He  knew  my  first  caress, 
And  made  me  love  him  by  his  puppy  pranks, 
His  roguish  bites  and  barks  and  kissing  thanks. 

The  pretty  little  fellow 

Had  paws  of  tawny  yellow, 
And  nose  and  chops  the  same ;  and  two  tan  spots 
Above  his  hazel  eyes,  that  seemed  like  dots 
Of  thought  upon  his  forehead  ;  and  for  the  rest, 
In  sable,  shiny  black,  Luray  was  dressed. 


I  thought  him  so  much  better 

Than  any  puppy  setter, 
I  took  him  to  the  Dog  Show  ;  with  his  eyes  — 
I  know  it  was  his  eyes  —  he  won  the  prize. 
(He  was  the  only  entry  in  his  class, 
Some  friends    took   pains  to   say  —  but  let  that 
pass.) 

As  soon  as  he  grew  older 

His  fluffy  puppy  shoulder 
Stood  high  and  gaunt;  his  loins  began  receding; 
In  every  line  and  point  he  showed  his  breeding. 
The  time  has  come,  said  I,  to  test  his  grain, 
And  now,  if  ever,  to  begin  to  reign. 


960 


BRIC-A-BRAC. 


I  improvised  a  quarry 

And  made  him  fetch  and  carry, 
And  "  charge  "  and  "  heel "  and  "  find  "  ;  do  all,  in 

short, 
To  fit  a  setter  for  a  life  of  sport. 
He  did  not  learn  his  lesson  in  a  day, 
And  often  sought  to  shirk  his  work  for  play. 

I  tried  not  to  upbraid  him. 
Though  often,  when  I  made  him 
Do  this  or  that,  he  taxed  my  patience  much  ; 
For  if  I  held  a  bone  in  careless  clutch, 
Which  I  would  think  to  hide  and  make  him  find, 
He  'd  steal  up  soft  and  snap  it  from  behind. 

And  then  to  see  him  scamper 

Was  something  of  a  damper 
On  training.  How  he  'd  frisk  and  twist  and  bound, 
And  toss  the  bone  and  catch  it  off  the  ground, 
And  wait,  crouched  low  before,  with  hips  held  high 
Till  I  approached  him,  when  away  he  'd  fly ! 

And  then  I  'd  shout :   "  Charge  down,  sir ! 

You  '11  never  win  renown,  sir, 
Behaving  so."    But  by  and  by  he  came 
To  understand  me  and  to  find  my  game 
More  fun  than  his  :  he  'd  watch  my  wave  of  hand, 
Or  stop  and  listen  to  my  least  command. 

So  he  was  wise  and  sober 

Some  time  before  October, 
When  dogs  and  hunters  take  their  tramps  afield. 
The  first  day  he  was  puzzled,  nor  revealed 
His  sense  ;  the  next  he  nosed  about ;  the  third 
He  trailed,  he  pointed,  and  he  fetched  his  bird. 

He  never  made  a  blunder, 

But  hunted  to  the  wonder 
Of  all  who  knew  him.     When  another  gun 
Than  mine  had  killed,  and  other  dogs  were  done 
With  searching  for  the  bird,  my  side  he  'd  leave, 
Go  far  within  the  bush,  and  then  retrieve. 

There  never  was  a  cartridge 

More  sure  to  find  a  partridge 
Than  he.    What  pride  he  took  to  fetch  his  bird  — 
The  puppy  with  his  partridge !  Wilding  heard 
It  all  at  night,  I  fancied,  when  Luray 
Crept  in  his  stall  and  close  beside  him  lay. 

They  always  slept  together 

In  frosty  autumn  weather. 
They  loved  each  other.  Wilding  munched  his  hay 
And  breathed  warm  kisses  on  the  dog ;   Luray 
Coiled  in  the  straw  where  Wilding  put  his  nose 
And  gently  licked  it  after  every  doze. 

The  next  day,  when  the  pony 

Was  in  his  cart,  his  crony 
Before  we  started  always  rushed  to  kiss  him ; 
He  never  failed,  but  Wilding  seemed  to  miss  him 
Until  he  jumped  and  licked  his  face;  the  start 
Thus  authorized,  he  ran  beneath  the  cart. 

Alas  !   all  that  is  ended  : 

An  illness  came,  attended 
With  pain  and  poison  ;   I  have  lost  Luray. 
'T  is  said  that  every  dog  must  have  his  day ; 
Oh  !   why  did  not  Luray  have  his  ?    Two  years  — 
So  much  for  loving  ;   all  the  rest  for  tears. 

And  now  I  've  told  my  story, 

I  must  tell  you  how  I  glory 
In  having  loved  Luray.  What  better  than 
Such  love  for  such  a  dog  ?  I  loathe  the  man 
Who  snarls  at  dogs  :  his  very  soul  's  agog. 
God  made  the  world  ;   God  also  made  the  dog. 

John  Eliot  Bozven. 


Mammy's    Churning    Song. 

Set  still,  honey,  let  ole  Mammy  tell  yer  'bout  de  churn, 
Wid  de  cream  en  clabber  dashin', 
En  de  buttermilk  er-splashin'. 
Dis  de  chune  hit  am  er-singin'  'fore  hit  'gin  ter  turn  : 
Jiggery,  jiggery,  jiggery,  jum, 
Bum-bum-bum, 
But-ter-come, 
Massa  gib  ole  nigger  some. 


(Jump  down,  honey,  en  fotch  me  dat  rag  fum  de 
table,  fer  ter  wipe  off  dis  hyah  led.  Tole  yer  so,  dat 
milk  gwine  ter  splatter  up  hyah  'reckly  !  Dar  now, 
dat  's  er  good  chile,  git  back  in  mer  lap.) 

Now  de  cream,  en  milk,  en  clabber  's  churnin'  up  so 
fas', 

Hyah  hit  splatterin'  en  er-splutterin', 

En  er-mixin',  en  er-mutterin', 
In  de  churn  en  roun'  de  dasher,  singin'  ter  de  las' : 

Jiggery*  jiggery.  jiggery,  jum, 

Bum-bum-bum, 

But-ter-come, 
Massa  gib  ole  nigger  some. 

(Uh-er  !  Teck  kyah,  honey,  keep  dem  fingers  way 
fum  dar !  Butter  mos'  come  now :  set  still  jis  er 
leetle  w'ile  longer.) 

Soon  de  lumps  ob  butter  '11  be  er-floatin'  on  de  top  — 
Now  de  ole  churn  's  fa'rly  hummin', 
Tell  yer  wot,  de  butter  comin' — 
Done  come  !    Mammy's  arm  so  ti-yerd,  now  she  's 
gwine  ter  stop. 

Jiggery,  jiggery,  jiggery,  jum, 
Bum-bum-bum, 
But-ter-come, 
Mammy  '11  gib  de  baby  some. 

(Dar  now  !  [removing  the  top  and  giving  the  dasher 
a  circular  motion]  jis  peep  in  dar  en  see  de  lumps  ob 
yaller  butter  er-huddlin'  tergedder.  Now  run  fotch 
yer  leetle  blue  mug,  en  Mammy  '11  gib  yer  some  nice 
sweet  buttermilk  right  outen  dis  hyah  churn. ) 

Edzvard  A.  Oldham. 


THE  DE  VINNE   PRESS,  NEW  YORK. 


SCRAMBLING  FOR  IT. 
Here  is  a  good-natured  tussle  for  a  cake  of  Pears'  Soap,  which  only  illustrates 
how  necessary  it  becomes  to  all  people  who  have  once  tried  it  and  discovered  its 
merits.  Some  who  ask  for  it  have  to  contend  for  it  in  a  more  serious  way,  and  that 
too  in  drug  stores,  where  all  sorts  of  vile  and  inferior  soaps,  represented  as  "just 
as  good,"  are  urged  upon  them  as  substitutes.  But  there  is  nothing  "  just  as 
good,"  and  they  can  always  get  the  genuine  Pears'  Soap  if  they  will  be  as  persist- 
ent as  are  these  urchins.  SHUN    MISREPRESENTATIONS. 


Oct.  '90. 


STYLE    S. 

LATEST  PATTERN  containing  new  Patent  Soft  Stop,  Patent  Desk,  and  other  patents  used  exclusively  in  the  Ivers  & 
Pond  Piano.  Dimensions  :  4  ft.  9  in.  high,  5  ft.  2  in.  wide,  2  ft.  2.^  in.  deep.  Mad;  in  Mahogany,  figured  Walnut,  quarter-sawed 
Oak,  and  Rose  Wood  finish. 

Beautiful  100-page  catalogue,   showing  pictures  of  Grand,   Square,  and  Upright  Pianos,  sent  free. 

IVERS  &  POND  PIAN 

WE    ARE    LARGE    MANUFACTURERS    of    strictly    first-class    pianos.      We 
believe  our  instruments  to  be  more  perfect  in  thoroughness  of  construction,  elegance  of 
finish,  fullness  and  brilliancy  of  tone,  than  pianos  made  by  any  other  manufacturer. 
Valuable    information  to  intending  purchasers  sent  free. 

WE  OFFER  TO  SHIP  ON  APPROVAL,  to  be  returned,  railway  freights  both 
ways  at  our  expense,  if  unsatisfactory  on  trial  in  your  home. 

DISTANCE  MAKES  NO  DIFFERENCE— i  mile  or  2,000  miles  are  alike  to 
us.  We  take  old  instruments  in  exchange,  and  make  terms  of  payment  to  suit  each 
customer's  reasonable  convenience. 

100-PAGE  CATALOGUE  MAILED  FREE  to  any  one  naming  this  advertise- 
ment.    Address 

IVERS  &  POND  PIANO  COMPANY,     I 

MASONIC  TEMPLE,  183=186  TREMONT  ST.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

OUR  LATEST  STYLES  CAN  BE  SEEN  AT 

J.  G.  RAMSDELL'S,  mi  Chestnut  St.,  Philadelphia.  W.  J.  DYER  &  BRO.'S,  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis. 

F.  H.  CHANDLER'S,  300  Fulton  St.,  Brooklyn.  PHILIP  WERLEIN'S,  135  Canal  St.,  New  Orleans. 

G.  W.  HERBERT'S,  18  East  17th  St.,  New  York.  SANDERS  &  STAYMAN'S,  Baltimore,  Washington,  and  Richmond. 

For  Pacific  Coast,  KOHLER  &  CHASE,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


RARE  *  OL2  ,.  VIOLINS 


MERICAN  Connoisseurs,  Amateur  and  Professional   Players,  and   Lovers  of  the 

Violin  generally,  will  be  glad  to  learn  that  we  have  recently  imported  a  magnifi 

cent  collection  of  Genuine  Old  Violins  including  masterpieces  bearing  such 

fP^gS|     names  as  Francesco  Stradivarius   (1742);  Giov.  Paola  Maggini,  Brescia  (1630); 

Francesco  Ruggerius,  Cremona  (17 12);  Jean  Baptiste  Guadagnini,  Carlo  Tononi, 

Giov.  Baptiste  Grancino,  Michael  Angelo  Bergonzi,   Heinrich  Jacobs,  HieronymoUs 

Amati,  Carlo  Testore,  Allessandro  and  Januarius  Gagliano,  Antonio  Marianni,  Carlo 

Pecino,  Jacobus  Steiner,  Sebastian  and  Joseph  Kloz,  Daniel  Stadleman  and  others, 

and  will  hereafter  make  this  department  a  prominent  feature  of  our  business 

These  instruments  were  selected  by  one  of  our  experts  dispatched  to 
Europe  for  that  purpose.  In  addition  to  the  Violins,  we  have  specimens  of  the 
finest  Violas,  Cellos  and  Double  Basses  by  such  makers  as  Alex.  Gagliano,  Ceruti, 
Claude  Pierray,  Castagneri,  Panorma  and  Joseph   Kloz      ..... 

We  have  also  a  full  assortment  of  excellent  Bows  by  Tourte,  Bausch,  Dodd, 
Moucatel,  Tubbs,  Voirin,  Uric,  Riechers,  Noebe,  Schultz,  Suss,  Banks,  Gand  and 
Bernardel,  Siefert  and  Hammig,  and  our  House  will  be  the  American  Depot  for 
the  Violin  Specialties  of  Hill  &  Son,  London,  and  Albert,  Philadelphia 

The  growing  interest  manifested  by  women  in  the  Violin  and  its  music 
is  one  of  the  signs  of  the  times,  and  we  will  make  it  a  point  to  attend  to  the  wants 
of  this  class  of  our  patrons  particularly      ........ 

Besides  the  high  grade  Old  Violins,  we  carry  a  very  large  supply  of  New 
Instruments  (copies  of  the  Masters)  of  both  our  own  and  the  best    foreign  make. 

We  have  rooms  especially  fitted  up  for  trying  Violins,  etc.,  and  invite 
personal  inspection  of  our  entire  collection  when  possible ;  but  if  prospective 
purchasers  cannot  visit  us,  we  will  send  assortments 
with  privilege  of  examination.  For  full  particulars, 
description  and  prices,  see  our  Violin  Pamphlet. 
Mailed  Free  to  any  address  .... 

Factory,   RANDOLPH   St.  &.  OGDEN   Av. 

(When  writing  mention  the  Century.)  Warerooms,   STATE   &.    MONROE    Sts..     CHICAGO. 


The  Mason  &  Hamlin  Piano 


Illustrates  the  same  high  standard  of  excellence  which  has  always  characterized  the 
MASON  &  HAMLIN  ORGANS,  and  won  for  them  the  Highest  Awards  at 
ALL    GREAT    WORLD'S    EXHIBITIONS  since  and  including  that  of  Paris,  1867. 

Organ    and    Piano    Catalogues    sent  free    to    any    address. 

SOLD  ON  EASY  TERMS,  AND  RENTED. 

MASON  &  HAMLIN  ORGAN  AND  PIANO  CO. 

BOSTON,    Mason    Sl    Hamlin    Hall,   154  and   155    Tremont   Street. 
NEW-YORK,   158   Fifth   Avenue.  CHICAGO,    149   Wabash   Avenue. 


A 


trip  to  the  moon.     Did  you  ever  make  a  trip  to 

the    moon?      Probably    not;    but    when    the 

great  Terra  Luna  Railroad  is  finished 

from  Brattleboro'  to  the  moon,  you  will  be 

able  to  make  the  trip,  and  hear  good 

music  from  the  Estey  Organs  all  the  way. 

The  moon  is  a   long  way  from  Brattleboro', 

but  if  all  the   Organs  made  by  the  Estey  Organ  Co. 

were    placed    like     signal    stations    along    the    route, 

you  would  never  be   A~ ^i^^fflp^SlV^^     m°rC  than  haIf  that  distancc 
from  the  nearest  one.  (-'"y^^^^f^^^M^N      ™  A  laboring  man  earning 
$2  a  day  would  have  to  work     \   (J  j     jBbW "  IQy^JB    J       34,ooo     years,     and     have 

^ood    health    all    the    time,    to     \jSB'EHKKJBBPP/       earn  lhc  value    of  a11  these 
Organs.  — If    a      ^jn]^^^MplV       boy  ten  years  of  age  should 

and  play  for  ^^^%^?5^^yi^^'^^       one  nour  on  eacn  organ  for 

ten  hours  a  day,  ^^<^         six  days  in  the  week  and  52  weeks 

in  the  year,  that  child  would  be  a  white-haired  old  man  about 

75  years  of  age  when  he  finished  his  little  practising  on  the 

last  Organ.  —  The  Estey  Organs  sold  exceed  four  times  the 

number  of  men  in  Sherman's  army  when  he  marched  from 

Atlanta  to  the  sea.  —  If  a  man  were  to  work  every  day 

in  the  year  12  hours  a  day  at  $1.50  per  day,  it  would  take 

him  almost  750  years  to  earn  the  value  of  these  organs,  if 

sold  at  $1.00  each.     If  paid  an  Estey  Organ  for  each  day's 

labor,  it  would  take  him  560  years  to  get  them  all. 


Spaulding  &  Co 


(incorporated) 


Gold  and  Silver  Smiths 


<§  With  full  lines  of  WATCHES  from  such  well-known  makers  as  Jules  Jurgensen, 
Patek,  Philippe  &  Co.,  Waltham,  Elgin,  and  E.  Howard  &  Co.,  no  house  in  the  country 
carries  a  more  comprehensive  stock  than  ours  <§  <§  i  We  call  SPECIAL  attention  to 
our  SPAULDING  &  CO.  $100  GOLD  WATCH  in  either  OPEN  FACE  or  HUNTING 

CASE  as  a  thoroughly  reliable  time  piece     <§    <§    <§     A  large  and  complete  selection   of 
Repeating  Watches  and  Chronographs  in  stock  at  all  times  <§<§§><§<§@(§<§<§<§ 


36  Ave.  De  L'Opera 
Paris 


State  and  Monroe  Sts. 
Chicago 


SttoULDER  CAPES.MANTLES,/y\uFFJ 
IN  ALL  KNOWN  FURS  • 

Sealskin  Jackets. 
C°ats .Wraps  and  Cloaks 
Fur  Lined  Coat§>  ^  Wraps  • 

Choice^  Exclusive  Designj. 
Perfect  in  make  ^  FiNi&tt 

Vx-^VERY  MODERATE  PRICES  • 


il 


f  r  I  c^-  ^ 


Piano. 


UNEXCELLED   IN  ANY  QUALITY  REQUISITE   IN 
A  FIRST  CLASS  PIANO. 

If  not  for  sale  by  your  local  dealer,  address 

The   JOHN    CHURCH    CO.     -     CINCINNATI,    O. 

"From  Andante  to  Allegro,"  a  beautifully  illustrated  pamphlet, 
will  be  sent  free  to  any  one  who  will  mention  where  this  advertisement 
was  seen. 


ORGANS 


The  excellence  of  our  ORGANS 
has  brought  us  many  enquiries  for 
special  designs  to  correspond  with 
the  finish  of  Church,  School,  Lodge 
or  Home.     As  our  factories  are  the 

LARGEST  IN  THE  WORLD, 

we  have  every  facility  for  the  execution  of  such 
orders  at  but  a  slightly  increased  cost  over 
regular  styles,  and  shall  at  all  times  be  pleased 
to  furnish  estimates  for  this  special  make. 
OUR  ORGANS  are  superior  in  quality,  in 
construction,  in  purity  of  tone  and  in  excel- 
lence of  all  materials  used. 

Send  for  Catalogue. 

The  NEEDHAM  P.  0.  CO. 

292  BROADWAY,   N.  Y. 


GREAT  POWER, 

EVENNESS  OF  SCALE, 
RICH  SINGING  QUALITY 
AND    ABSOLUTE     DURABILITY. 

Used  by  hundreds  of  Academies,  Colleges,  Schools, 
etc.,  for  more  than  33  YEARS.  m  preference  to 
all  others,  because  the  Steck  Pianos  have  proved  to  be 
the  Most  Reliable  Instruments  after  the  severest  tests. 


be 


WHAT  SOME  OF  THE  LEADING  ARTISTS  SAY: 

Jnl  A  G  N  E  R . —  "  Everywhere    acknowledged    to 

excellent.'''' 

L I S Z T . — "  They  give  the  liveliest  satisfaction.'" 
ESSIPOFF.  —  "The  very  best  piano  made. ' ' 

W I  L  H  E  LM  J.  —  "Rank  far  above  all  possible  com- 
petition." 

LUCCA  >  —  "Are  unparalleled  for  the  majestic  sing- 
ing quality  of  tone." 

TAMAGNO.—  "Combine  all  the  essential  qual- 
ities of  a  really  perfect  piano,  immense  power  with 
exquisite  sweetness." 

A  R  D I T I . —  "  Without  fear  of  contradiction  the  Steck 
ranks  higher  than  all  other  instruments  now  maniA 
fact  u  red. ' '  

GEO.  STECK  &  CO.  Manufacturers, 

Warerooms:    Steck  Hall,  11   East    14th   Street,  New- York. 


PIANOS 

ESTABLISHED  IN   1851. 

25000    SOLD  AND   IN   USE. 


THEY  COMBINE 

SYMPATHETIC,  PURE  AND  RICH 
TONE.  GREATEST  POWER,  ELE- 
GANCE AND  DURABILITY. 

THEY  ARE  SOLD  ON  THE  MOST 
ACCOMMODATING  TERMS,  DELIV- 
ERED IN  YOUR  HOUSE  FREE  OF 
EXPENSE,  ANYWHERE  IN  THE 
UNITED  STATES,  AND  SATISFAC- 
TION    GUARANTEED. 


Catalogues   and  full  information   mailed 
free  on  application. 


Vose^Sons Piano  Go. 

170  TFtfMDNTST.  B0ST0N./AA5S. 


HAVILAND  CHINA  AT  FIRST  HANDS. 

OYSTER  SOUP  PLATE  AND  TUREEN. 

Some  of  oar 
Latest  ^Designs. 

SERVICE   PLATE. 


Shaded  colors,  with  rich  gold 
and  color  design,  made  in  old 
rose,  olive  gray,  turquoise  green, 
English    red,    and    a    beautiful 
.    ^"pp^e  C(Jp>    shade  of  brown  maroon. 

FRANK    HAVILAND, 

14   BARCLAY    STREET,    NEW-YORK    CITY. 


STANDARD 
THERMOMETERS 


FOR    ALL    PURPOSES. 


For  Sale  by  the  Trade  Everywhere. 


STANDARD  THERMOMETER  CO. 

PEABODY,  MASS- 


NEW -York  Office: 
Room  413  Telephone   Building, 

18  Cortlandt  Street. 


The  only  award  to  American  Pottery  at  the 
Paris  Exposition,  1889,  was 

A  GOLD  MEDAL  TO  R00KI00D  POTTERY. 

This  ware  may  be  found  with  a  leading 
dealer  in  each  large  city,  or  inquiries 
may  be  addressed  to 

ROOKWOOD   POTTERY,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


Established 
1842. 


Incorporated 
1886. 


BHIXIS  COMfH^OKiG^GO.  limited. 

921   BROADWAYS  151  FIFTH  AVENUE-CONNECTING. 

This  design  represents  a  few  of  the  leading  marks  found  on  china,  examples  of  which  can 
always  be  seen  at  our  establishment,  together  with  all  others  of  prominence  and  merit. 

Domestic  Pottery  and   Glass.  1 

For  years  we  have  made  a  special  feature  of  the  best  display  of  home  manufactures  that 
were    obtainable,    with    such    success    that   at    the  Paris    Exposition    of   1889  we    secured    for 

Hawkes's  American  Cut  Glass  —  Grand  Prize ;  Rookwood  Pottery,  Cincinnati— Gold  Medal, 

Exclusive  sale  for  above  for  New-York  and  Brooklyn. 

Photographs  of  Cut  Glass  sent  on  application.     Correspondence  in  regard  to  China  and 
table   decorations   solicited. 

DAVIS  COLLAMORE  &  CO.  Limited, 

Broadway  and  Twenty-first  St.  New-York.  1 


Moonstone  Cnt  Glass. 


This  is  the  name  given  to  an  entirely 
new  finish  in  rich  cut  glass,  adding  to  its 
usual  brilliancy  a  warmth  and  softness  of 
appearance  that  will  be  found  very  attract- 
ive. The  price  is  no  higher  than  for  ordi- 
nary cut  glass,  ranging  from  $2.25  to  $6.00 
for  bon  bon  or  olive  dishes,  $6.00  to 
$24.00  for  seven  to  ten-inch  bowls,  $6.75 
to  $i3.5ofor  celery  trays,  $36.00  to $53.00 
for  fourteen-inch  punch  bowls.  Other 
shapes  at  proportionate  prices. 

Samples  sent  prepaid  to  any  part  of  the 
country,  with  privilege  of  return  if  not 
entirely  satisfactory,  the  money  paid  to 
be  refunded  by  us.  It  makes  something 
entirely  new  for  a  wedding  or  Christmas 
present.  Send  for  descriptive  circular, 
and  also  for  our  pamphlet  of  helpful 
"Suggestions  for  Christmas." 

W.  H.  GLEMY,  SONS  &  CO.  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 


DUPLICATE 
WEDDING 
PRESENTS 


13 

SOLID    SILVER 

TEA    SPOONS 

for 

$14,00. 


We  have  tried  to  illustrate  four  of  our  special  bargains  this  month. 
m  The  repousse  chased  Salad  Fork  and  Spoon,  handsomely  cased, 
is  only  $16.00. 

The  dainty  Bon-Ron  Dish  and  Tongs,  $10.00. 

A  dozen  of  the  trident  Oyster  Forks,  $10.00. 

A  dozen  of  the  twist  Coffee  Spoons,  Gilt  Bowl,  $9.00. 

These  are  from  30  per  cent,  to  40  per  cent,  under  regular  prices, 
and  we  have  5000  cases  correspondingly  low  in  price.  We  will  send 
a  number  of  cases  to  any  address  for  examination. 

An  old  Continental  Tea  Set,  6  pieces,  $300,  well  worth  $500,  is  a 
special  attraction. 

OliD  GOLD  Jewelry,  and  worn-out  or  useless  silver,  taken 
in  exchange  or  bought.  Send  by  registered  mail  or  express.  Cer- 
tified check  sent  by  return  mail. 

JOHNSTON  &   SON,  150  BOWERY,  N.  Y. 

Established  1844.  Send/or  Price-list. 


Home,  Sweet  Home. 

If  you  want  your  home  to  be  sweet  and 
pure,  free  from  bad  odors  and  breeding"  places 
for  disease  germs,  you  should  see  that  you 
get  the  appliances  best  adapted  for  the  pre- 
vention of  these  evils.  We  have  told  you  of 
our  Porcelain-Lined  Bath  Tubs;  you  cannot 
improve  on  them  ;  our  Porcelain-Lined  Laundry  Tubs  are  just  as  good  for 
the  laundry  as  our  Baths  are  for  the  Bath-room,  and  our  Porcelain-Lined 
Soil  Pipe  and  Fittings  are  the  most  sanitary  you  can  find  —  the  lining  is  as 
smooth  as  glass,  offering  no  resting  place  for  germs  or  filth,  and  never  be- 
come foul  or  stopped  up. 

If  you  have  our  Baths,  Laundry  Tubs  and  Porcelain-Lined  Pipe  in  your 
house  we  guarantee  you  a  sweet  home. 

STANDARD  MANUFACTURING  COMPANY, 

Catalogue  free.  PITTSBURGH,  PA. 


LOWELL 


For  nearly  half  a  century,  Lowell  Carpets  have  been 
acknowledged  by  all  to  be 


The  word 
"  LOWELL  " 
APPEARS  IN 
CAPITAL  LET- 
TERS in  the  back  of 
Lowell,  Wilton 
and  Body  Brussels 
at  every  repeat  of  the 
pattern.  LOOK 
CAREFULLY 
to  the  trade-marks,  and 
be  sure  you  get  the 
genuine 

LOWELL 

CARPETS. 


THE 
BEST 


Tlie      LOWELL 
INGRAINS    are 

wound  upon  a  hollow 
stick,  which  the  United 
States  Court  decided 
to  be  a  valid  trade- 
mark. The  stick  is 
in  two  solid  pieces 
with  the  name  of  the 

LOWELL 
COMPANY 

stamped  within. 

BEWARE     OF 
IMITATIONS. 


These  goods  are  invariably  full  width,  and  may  be 
had  in  a  large  variety  of  designs,  which  for  technique 
and  coloring  are  unequaled,  rendering  them  especially 
appropriate  for  artistic  homes. 

For  Sale  by  all  First-class  Dealers. 


CARPETS 


The    Pittsburgh    Lamp  is 

one  of  those  inventions 

that  seem  to  be  finished. 

It  seems   to   reach    the 

end  as  to  goodness 

of  light  in  every 

way,  and  ease  of 

management. 

The  only  care 
it  requires  is  fill- 
ing and  wiping. 
Dirt  falls  out 
when  the  chim- 
ney is  taken  off,  not  into  a  pocket  as 
in  other  central-draft  lamps. 

Putting  in  a  new  wick  is  a  very 
easy  matter  indeed. 

All  this  seems  strange  to  one  who 
knows  how  troublesome  other  good 
lamps  are. 

It  is  in  all  the  good  lamp-stores. 
Send  for  a  primer. 
Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Pittsburgh  Brass  Co 


Oct.  '90. 


TABLE  CHINA. 


The  endeavor  is  to  make  this  Department,  including  more  than  300  distinct  sets,  and  which  occupies  the 
entire  Fourth  Floor  of  our  Brooklyn  House,  especially  advantageous  to  Housekeepers,  alike  as  regards  well 
chosen  forms  and  decorations  as  a  large  range  of  prices,  thus  offering  a  good  selection  to  those  having  in  view 
the  purchasing  of  a  set  from  $25  to  $100,  as  well  as  at  $200,  $300  and  upward. 

The  simple  though  artistic  pattern  here  illustrated,  Fleitr-de-lis  design,  is  from  the  well  known  works  of 

the  Messrs.  Copeland  of  England  —  a  guarantee  for  quality  in 
every  regard.  A  Dinner  Set  of  97  pieces  is  valued  at  $25,  and 
120  pieces  $35,  while  the  same  with  rich,  heavy,  gold  edge  handles 
and  feet  is  $65  and  $90. 

HEP" This  design,  as  well  as  more  than  twenty  others,  is  kept  in 
"open  stock,"  and  offered  in  any  number  of  pieces  where  detached 
sets  or  matchings  are  required. 

The  display  of  French  China  Sets  —  well  chosen  selections  from 
ten  or  more  of  the  leading  manufacturers  of  France — is,  we  believe, 
unparalleled.  Worthy  of  notice  is  one  prettily  decorated  and  gilded 
for  $28. 

Catalogues  supplied  containing  some  indications  of  Rich  Table 
Glass,  Solid  Silver,  Clocks,  Bronzes,  etc. 


OVINGTON    BROTHERS, 

330    FIFTH    AVENUE, 


NEW-YORK. 


BROOKLYN    HOUSE, 

FULTON   &   CLARK   STS. 


The  very  best  Lamp 
in  the  -world  for  burn- 
ing kerosene. 

THE 

HITCHCOCK 

LAMP. 

Explosion  impossi- 
ble, burns  open  like 
gas,  gives  a  powerful 
silvery  light,  superior 
to  gas  for  reading  or 
sewing,  just  the  lamp 
for  cottages  ;  no  break- 
ages of  glass  ;  quite 
suitable  for  wedding 
or  Christmas  presents. 
Send  $5.00  to  the 

Hitchcock  Lamp  Co. 

WATERTOWN,  N.  Y. 

And  we  will  deliver  with- 
out any  other  charge,  one 
nickeled  lamp  to  any  ad- 
dress in  the  United  States. 
Send  for  illustrated  Cata- 
logue giving  description. 

QUANTITY   PRICE 
TO    DEALERS. 

JHSk  Be  sure  "Hitchcock  Lamp  '  is 

:liiiBSliii!!S:£§!liB  stamped  on  the  burner 
■"■  to  be  genuine. 


A  Piece  of  Sterling  Silver 

inlaid  in  the  backs  of  spoons 

and  forks  at  points  most  ex-     E™yBfI 

1  1  SILVER  I 

posed  to  wear  and  then  plated 
entire. 

Guaranteed  to  contain 
more -silver  than  any  "  Quad- 
ruple Plate,"  and  to  wear 
25  years. 

More  durable  than  light 
Sterling  Silver  and  not  half 
the  cost. 

l$e  sure  to  see  that  each1 
piece  you  purchase  bears  the 
trade-mark  (oIed  wards^ 

These  will  last  a  lifetime. 

MANUFACTURED    ONLY    BY 

THE  HOLMES  &  EDWARDS  SILVER  COMPANY, 

BRIDGEPORT,  CONN. 

New-York  Salesroom,  23  JOHN  STREET. 


HEALTH    IN    BODY,  VOICE   AND    FEATURES. 


D.  L.  DOWD'S  HEALTH  EXERCISER,    for  braw-wokkers  and  sedentary  people 

Gentlemen,  Ladies,  Youths  ;  the  Athlete  or  Invalid.  A  complete  gymnasium.  Takes  up  but  6  inches 
S  square  floor-room  ;  new,  scientific,  durable,  comprehensive,  cheap.  Indorsed  by  20,000  physicians, 
%  lawyers,  clergymen,  editors  and  others  now  using  it.  Send  for  illustrated  circular,  40  engravings  ;  no 
I*    charge. 

D.  L  Dowd's  School  for  Scientific,  Physical  and  Vocal  Culture,  for  ladies,  gentlemen  and 

children.  If  you  desire  a  robust,  healthy  physique  and  a  voice  of  rare  charm  and  power,  you  can  surely  obtain  them  by 
application  of  scientific  principles.  By  this  method,  a  singing  voice  for  the  practically  voiceless  and  a  sound  body  for 
the  unhealthful  is  possible.  The  lost  voice  can  positively  be  restored.  Remember,  "knowledge  is  power."  Send  for 
prospectus,  or  call. 

RuleS  for  F aCial  Development.  Will  mail  you  rules  to  develop  muscles  of  cheeks  and  neck  to  make  them 
plump  and  rosy,  fully  illustrated,  for  50  cents.  Also  rules  for  Dumb-bells  to  develop  every  muscle  of  the  limbs  and  body 
for  50  cents  additional,  fully  illustrated.    Prof.  D.  L.  DO  WD,  Scientific,  Physical  and  Vocal  Culture,  9  East  14th  St.  N.  Y. 


"Seeing  is  Believing." 

w. 

And  the  best  lamp  ever  made,  like 
Aladdin's  of  old,  a  "wonderful 
lamp  "  !  A  lamp  absolutely  non- 
explosive     and     unbreakable, 

which  gives  a  clear,  soft,  brilliant 
white  light  of  85  candle  power/ 
Purer  and  brighter  than  gas  light, 
softer  than  electric  light,  more  cheer- 
ful than  either.     That  lamp  is 

"  The  Rochester." 

And  with  it  there  is  no  smoke,  no  smell,  no  broken  chimneys,  no 
flickering,  no  sweating,  no  climbing  up  of  the  flame,  no  "tantrums" 
nor  annoyance  of  any  kind,  and  it  never  needs  trimming.  Its 
founts  (oil  reservoirs)  being  tough-rolled  seamless  brass,  with  cen- 
tral draft,  it  is  absolutely  unbreakable,  and  as  safe  as  a 
tallow  candle. 

Only  five  years  old  and  over  two  millions  in  tise.  It  must  be  a 
GOOD  lamp  to  make  such  a  telling  success.  Indeed  it  is,  for 
lamps  may  come  and  lamps  may  go,  but  the  "  Rochester  "  shines 
on  forever.  We  make  over  2000  artistic  varieties, — Hanging  and 
Table  Lamps,  Banquet,  Study,  Vase  and  Piano  Lamps, —  every 
kind,  in  Bronze,  Porcelain,  Brass,  Nickel  and  Black  Wrought  Iron. 

Ask  the  lamp  dealer  for  it.  Look  for  the  trade-mark  stamp 
"The  Rochester."  If  he  hasn't  the  genuine  Rochester  and 
the  style  you  want,  or  if  no  lamp-store  is  near,  send  to  us  for  free 
illustrated  catalogue  (and  reduced  price-list),  and  we  will  box  and 
send  you  any  lamp  safely  by  express,  right  to  your  door. 

ROCHESTER  LAMP  CO.  43  Park  Place,  New-York. 

The  Largest  Lamp  Store  in  the  World. 


Th. 


Daylight 


A  steady,  white 

and  strong 

light. 

A  cleanly,  simple, 

easily  manipulated, 

burner. 


Lamp 


These  words  mean  much. 
To  learn  more,  write  to 
Daylight  Lamp  Co.,  38 
Park  Place,  New  York,  or 
to  Craighead  &  Kintz  Co. 
the  manufacturers, 33  Bar- 
clay St. 


"  A  Thing  of  Beauty  is  a  Joy  Forever." 

Not  true  of  table  china,  however,  unless : 

a.  Each  piece  is  carefully  glazed  in  every  part. 

b.  The  body  is  thoroughly  Vitrified  so  that  when  chipped  it  washes 

white;  chipped  places  on  tra?isluceut  ware  always  wash  white. 

c     The  glazing  will  not  split  into  fine  cracks  after  a  few  months'  use. 
Our  "Venetian"  China  is  right  in  all  these  points. 
Dealers  have  it  or  will  get  it  for  you.     If  not,  write  us. 

TRENTON  CHINA  CO., 

Trenton,  N.  J. 


R  I  A  LTO 


LONGER  SERVICE  WITH  INCREASED  BRILLIANCY 

is  guaranteed  for  Table,  Toilet  and  Ornamental  Silver,  by  the 
employment  of  electro-silicon  for  cleaning  and  polishing. 
This  article  has  the  merit,  peculiar  to  itself,  of  imparting  to 
all  Gold  and  Silver  surfaces  the  highest  degree  of  brilliancy 
without  scratching  or  wearing,  even  under  frequent  and  long 
continued  use. 

A  trial  quantity  can  be  had  for  the  asking. 
Your  address  is   all  that's   necessary. 

Full-sized  Box,  post-paid,  15  cts.  in  stamps.      Sold  Everywhere. 
THE    ELECTRO  SILICON   CO.,  Sole  Prop-rs,  72  JOHN  ST.,  NEW  YORK. 


BANNER 
LAMP 

EXCELS  ALL OTHERS  FOR 

Beauty,  Brilliancy, 
Safety  &  Economy. 

Gives     a    Steady    White 

Light. 
Superior  in  Workmanship 

and  Finish. 
Prices  Lower  than   any 

other  Lamp  of  equal  merit. 

Several  attractive  styles. 

|3P* Ask  your  dealer  for  it. 

Take  no  Other. 

THE  PLUME  &  ATWOOD  IWFG.  CO, 

New  York,  Chicago,  Boston. 


ELECTRIC 
LUSTRE  STARCH 

Best  Laundry  Starch  in  the  World. 

Housekeepers  find  the 

Electric  Lustre  Starch 

a  great  blessing.  It 
saves  Time,  Labor  and 
Trouble;  makesshirts, 
Collars  and  Cuffs  look 
like  new.  Will  not 
stick  to  the  iron.  Sold 
by  Grocers  all  over 
the  United  States. 
Don't  attempt  to  keep 
house  without  it. 

Mrs.  Frances  Corse,  wife  of  Gen.  John  M.  Corse,  the  hero  of 
Allatoona,  and  Postmaster  of  Boston,  says  : 

"I  have  used  the  ELECTRIC  LUSTRE  STARCH 
in  my  laundry  and  it  gives  great  satisfaction.  It  is 
excellent  and  labor  saving."  Thousands  testify  to 
its  Avonderful  merits. 

Order  a  Package  of  Your  Grocer  to-day. 

ELECTRIC  LUSTRE  STARCH  CO. 

Boston,  Mass.,  IT.  S.  A. 


&&i\f!&fi>81§W 

mzxxxvm® 

zzrA 

r§£i£& 

^VS 

Sssajm 

mk& 

^  §Ki 

Raf& 

y,  a^ 

Upk&ot>^ 

^XZXZ\^& 

l-f-Xrr 

Hx£  ?^^S^^^^^^| 

Beautiful  and  Lasting  for  ORNAMENTING 
WINDOWS,    DOORS,     TRANSOMS,      &c. 

Stained 

Glass 

SUBSTITUTE 

AT    SMALL,    COST.    Send  for  Illustrated   Cata- 
logue and  Prices.    Samples  by  mail  25  cents. 
WA   VnilUfl  Sole  Agent, 944 ARCH  ST. 
llfll  UUnW     PHILADELPHIA,   PA. 
AGENTS      WANTED     EVERYWHERE. 

SHEPARD'S  LIGHTNING  ICE  CREAM 
FREEZER  makes  more  and  better  Cream  from  the 
same  materials  than  any  other.  For  pamphlet  and  full  particulars, 
address 

Shepard  Hardware  Co.,  Mammoth  Foundry,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

MILWAUKEE      COLLEGE.       Milwaukee,   Wis.      For 
Young  Women.  C.  R.  KINGSLEY,  President 


Cooler 

^  FOR     V 

AILK, 
AEAD 

DRINKS 

THE-JOHIt<?JEWETT-AVF-G-Ca 

*  BUFFALO, N.Y. 


Girls. 


By  Helen  Ekin  Starrett,  in  The  Forum. 

"  Thousands  who  are  now  in  shops  and  other  organized 
industries  would  really  prefer  work  in  homes,  if  only  the 
heavy,  grimy,  malodorous,  clothes-destroying  work  of  cook- 
ing and  laundering  were  not  required  and  expected  of  them." 

Well — if  this  is  true  there's  a  good- 
time  coming  for  girls  and  the  mistress  too  ; 
for  women  (by  millions)  are  coming  to 
know,  that  Pear  line  saves  the  clothes  on 
your  back  as  well  as  the  clothes  in  the  wash  ; 
the  paint  on  your  walls — the  sheen  of  silver 
— the  lustre  of  glass  and  reduces  the  labor 
— drudgery— health  breaking— temper  and 
comfort  wearing  work  of  washing  and 
cleaning  to  almost  nothing.  Besides 
—the  girl — the  mistress — or  both — 
are  better  satisfied  with  the  results.  It 
cleanses — restores  original  colors — but  hurts  nothing,  not  even  delicate 
skin — luxurious  for  bathing — be  among  the  bright  ones  and  use  Pear  line. 

^m  Peddlers  and  some  unscrupulous  grocers  will  tell  you,  "  this  is  as  good  as  " 

■    lO'Vi/'d  Y*f~*  °r  "the  Same  aS  Pearline-"     IT'S  FALSE— Pearline  is  never  peddled, 
JL-#  v_^    ▼  ▼     6tl    V->  and  if  your  grocer  sends  you  something  in  place  of  Pearline,  do  the  honest 

thing— send  it  back,  192  JAMES  PYLE.  New  York. 


AGIC  LANTERNS 

SLIDES,  &c, 
FOR   EXHIBITIONS. 

Send  for  Catalogue. 

C.T.MILLI6AN, 

728  Chestnut  Street, 
PHILADELPHIA, 


•STATIONARY  WASH"  TVB  5- 
~.WASHB9ARD5rS°A?- 
•CyPS  M9U1PED  IN  TUBS- 


•CERARIC  C9- 
3E  PEARL  ST 

C°R-  PECK  SLIP 
•NE¥=YORK=<- 


•SOLID  WHITE  CROCKERY- 


^^    * gj 

1    ^YERT  STJRPNG*    ! 
CAHNDTJfflS°BDUABDM- 

'NoSEAttSTo°PEN- 

N°  LABoR  Jo  KEEP  CLEAN- 

•Tfl0USANDS  IK  USE- 

ovnU5YEMSoy«ET 


Bath  Cabinet.  Rolling  Chair. 

A  CURE  for  A  Priceless 
Rheumatism,  Boon  to  those 
Liver  and  Skin  who  are  unable 
Diseases,  Etc.     to  walk. 

RECLINING  CHAIRS, 

COUCHES,  COMODES, 

BACK  RESTS,  BIDETS,  and  other 

INVALIDS'    FURNITURE, 

Descriptive  Lists  Sent  Free. 

Our  Chairs  are  used  in  the  U.  S.  Hospitals. 

NATIONAL  CHAIR  CO., 

NEW  HAVEN.  CONN. 


PIANOS 


RENOWNED    FOR 

TONE  &  DURABILITY 

MODEBATE  PEICES 
EASY  TEBMS,  EXCSANQED. 

DELIVERED  FREE  WITHIN  20  MILES  OF  NEW  YORK  CITY" 

Catalogue  Hailed  on  Application. 

1 1 0  Fifth  Ave.,  cor.  1 6th  Street 

NEW  YORK  CITY, 


Ottoman  Piano  Stool 


A  Beautiful  Article  that  will  Match 
your  Finest  A  rt  Furniture. 

Seven  Points  of  Superiority. 

Full  description  and  price  given  by 

S.  C.  JOHNSON,  Racine,  Wis. 


THE  MASCHAL  &  SMITH 

PIANOS  and  ORGANS. 


Yes,  Ethel,  my  Marchal  &  Smith  Piano  is  a  beautiful 
Instrument.  The  tone  is  so  sweet  and  pure,  the  action 
so  fairy-like,  and  the  finish  so  elegant  that  not  another 
thing  can  I  wish  for.  I  wrote  to  the  factory,  and  told 
them  just  what  I  wanted,  and  they  selected  it  and  sent 
it  to  me  for  trial,  agreeing  to  take  it  back  and  pay  all  the 
freights  if  I  did  not  like  it.  But  I  could  not  be  better 
suited  if  I  had  a  thousand  to  choose  from.  My  dear, 
when  you  want  a  Piano  or  an  Organ  send  for  their 
Catalogue.     They  have 

PIANOS  from  $150  to  $1500  and 

ORGANS  from  $35  to  $500. 
Write  to  The  Marchal  &  Smith  Piano  Co, 
235  East  21st  Street,  New-York. 


ESTABLISHED  1859. 


INCORPORATED  1877. 


J 


The  Robt.  Mitchell  Furniture  Co.,  Cincinnati, 
O.,  make  and  sell  Wood  Mantels  in  all  the  Hard 
Woods  at  prices  ranging  from  $6.00,  and  ship 
them  by  freight  to  any  railroad  station,  ready  to 
be  put  in  place  by  an  ordinary  carpenter. 

An  illustrated  catalogue  showing  many  styles 
will  be  sent  free  to  any  address  upon  receipt  of  six 
cents  in  stamps,  for  postage. 

THE   ROBT.    MITCHELL    FURNITURE    CO. 

Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

THE  KINDERGARTEN,  A  monthly  for  home 
and  school,  science  lessons,  stories,  games,  occupations, 
etc.  Invaluable  for  primary  teachers  and  mothers. 
$1.50  a  year.     On  trial,  3  months,  30  cts. 

Alice  B.  Stockham  &  Co.,  161  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago. 

jhartshqrn;s  s^eIuIsj 

Beware  of  Imitations.  A     ^—sV^ 

NOTICE  ■.      l/^Z-tr1^  on 

AUTOGRAPH    //  JtA^  LABEL 

'fir      *S  AND  GET 

THEGENUINE 


The  CHAMPION  CASH  or  DEED  BOXES. 

Well  secur- 
ed by  our  fine 
Lock  (your 
choice,  a  Key- 
less or  a  Key- 
ed lock).  A 
Box  of  this  sort 
is  a  real  neces- 
sity for  every 
business  man 
and  woman. 
Many  thou- 
sands   have 

been  distributed  as  Christmas  presents,  etc.  We  have  prepared  an 
extra  stock  for  this  season's  demand.  Small  sizes  are  delivered  by 
mail:  larger  ones  by  express,  and  we  prepay  the  charges  as  far 
south  as  Chattanooga,  or  west  to  St.  Louis  or  Chicago,  on  receipt 
of  the  price  of  the  Box  only.  Cat.  showing  sizes,  prices,  etc.,  free. 
Applicants  who  enclose  3  cents  in  stamps  will  receive,  with  the  Cat., 
our  new  nickeled  steel  Pocket  Tool,  bearing  our  address,  and  al- 
ways acceptable. 

MILLER    LOCK    CO.  Lock    Mfrs., 

4533  Tacony  St.,  Frankford,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


HOLLOWAY  READING  STAND !  DICTIONARY  HOLDER 


Holds  books  open  for  sitting  or  lying  down 
reading.  Dictionary  turned  before  you  by 
slightest  touch  of  the  hand,  avoids  unhealth- 
ful  habit  of  bending  forward  when  reading. 
Shipped  to  all  parts  of  the  world.  Send  for 
Illustrated  Catalogue. 

The  Holi.oway  Co., 

Cuyahoga  Falls,  Ohio. 


PATENTS 


FRANKLIN  H.  HOUGH,  Washington, 
D.  C.  |^~  No  attorney's  fee  until  Patent 
is  obtained.    Write  for  INVENTOR'S  GUIDE. 


New-York. 


World's  ONLY  Manufactory  of 

EXCLUSIVELY.— ALL  Styles  and  Sizes  for  use  of 
INVALIDS    AND    CRIPPLES. 

Self-  and  secondary  hand-propulsion,  in-doors 
and  out.  Comfort,  durability,  and  ease  of  move- 
ment unequaled.  Sole  Makers  of  the  Patented 
"  Rolling  Chairs"  pushed  about  at  the  Centennial. 
For  Illustrated  Catalogue,  send  stamp,  and  men- 
tion The  Century. 
SMITH  WHEEL  CHAIR  CONCERN,  102  William  St. 

INVALID 
ROLLING   CHAIRS 

Fully  equal  to  any  in  the  market  for  com- 
fort, strength,  durability  and  finish. 
MANUFACTURED   BY 

H.  S.  COLIGHTLY, 

203  Quarry  Street,  Phila.,  Pa. 

Send  for  price-list. 


J *I ilfATflfty I ll Bl ^  6o  assortec'  beautiful  Silk  and  Satin  pieces, 
Ti  y  i  T  ^  BB  A  »1|  it  il  enough  to  cover  500  square  inches,  25c;  best 
pieces  and  larger  pack,  $t.    Lemarie's  Silk  Mill,  Little  Ferry,  N.  J. 

If  the  Door  has  the 

INDICATOR    BOLT, 

YOU  ARE  NOT  ANNOYED 
by  having  it  tried  from  the  outside, 
while  you  are  occupying  ToilGt 
or  Bath  Room.  Nor  do  you  in 
turn  ANNOY  OTHERS  by  fry- 
ing the  door,  supposing  the  apart- 
ment VACANT. 
The  sign  (under  glass)  moves  with  the  bolt. 

styles,  Brass,  Bronze,  Nickel  and  Japan 

Cts.   up,  prepaid. 

Send  for  illustrated  Price-List. 

TRENTON  INDICATOR  BOLT  &  LOCK  CO. 
TRENTON,  N.  J. 


Various 
from  60 


OURS  IS  THE  LARGEST  STOCK  IN  THE  WORLD 


of  Rolling,  Reclining  and  Carrying-  Chairs,  Commodes,  Earth  Closets,  Back  Rests, 
Bed  Trays,  Crutches,  Sanitary  Rubber  Goods,  Hospital  Supplies,  Invalids'  Beds, 
Invalids'  Tables,  Bidets,  Comfortable  Reading  Appliances,  Revolving  Book  Cases,  etc. 

Correspondence   invited.       Illustrated   catalogue   of  100   pages    free. 

Address  SARGENT  MANUFACTURING  CO.  814  Broadway,  N.  Y. 

jp*  f\  ■  I  Ski  W%     A  fit  companion  for  the 
rUUNU  folding  bed. 

The  only  combination  Dressing  Bureau  and  Wash- 
stand  in  the  world. 
Just  the  thing  for  a  room  which  is 
"Compelled  a  double  debt  to  pay: 

A  sleeping-room  at  night,  a  sitting-room  by  day." 
We  also  manufacture  Combination  Bureaus,  Wash- 
stands  and  Wardrobes:   three  pieces  in  one. 

The  best  and  cheapest  furniture  in  the  market  for 
Hotels,  Apartment  and  Boarding-houses,  Summer 
Cottages,  Rooms  in  Schools,  Colleges,  Sanitariums, 
etc.     This  engraving  shows  a  room  10  feet  square. 

Wiih  ordinary  furniture  it  would  be  too  crowded 
even  for  a  bed-room.  With  Princess  Case,  and  a 
folding  bed,  it  is  a  cosy  and  convenient  sitting-room 
when  both  pieces  are  closed,  and  a  satisfactory  bed- 
room when  both  pieces  are  open  as  here  shown. 

For  sale  l>y  best  retail  furniture  dealers  in  all 
prominent  cities  Where  not  carried  by  Dealers, 
will  be  shipped  direct.     Address 

PRINCESS    DRESSING    CASE    CO. 
Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 


YOUR  CEILING  IS  CRACKED  AND  BROKEN. 

Look  at  something  neat,  durable  and  practical.       i 


Paneled  Iron  Ceilings  for  Churches,  Halls  and  Stores.     Embossed  Steel  Ceilings  for  Offices 
and  Residences.     Either  can  he  put  on  over  old  hroken  Plaster  Ceilings. 

SEND  FOR  OUR   NEW   ILLUSTRATED  CIRCULAR. 


FAIR  NOTICE: — In  order  to  protect  my  customers  from  undue 
duplication  of  their  houses  (it  oftens  happens  that  a  handsome  and 
convenient  house  is  duplicated  all  over  a  neighborhood,  much  to 
the  annoyance  of  the  owner),  and  to  protect  myself  from  imitators 
who  do  not  scruple  to  adopt  my  designs  as  their  own,  I  have  pat- 
e/ited  7iiy  designs. 

This  empowers  me  to  require  that  every  builder  from  my  designs 
shall  procure  a  license.  Even  those  houses  modified  considerably 
but  showing  essential  features  of  my  designs  need  a  license. 

These  terms  are  not  hard  for  the  owner.     Indeed,  they  are  much 
to  his  advantage.     Nothing  is  charged  for  licenses  —  they  are  sent 
free  when  working  plans  and  specifications 
are    ordered.      The  only  people   seriously 
affected  are  some  builders,  who  never  want 
owners  to  see  perfect  plans  and  specifica- 
tions and  to   know  how  a  good 
'house  should  be  built. 


%'■■!" 

'?2£~    READ    BELOW. 

Mr.  Shoppell  has  a  full  list  of  Classified  Designs  (estimates 
guaranteed)  —  the  most  helpful  aids  ever  devised  for  the  intending 
builder.  Every  design  is  beautifully  printed  on  plate  paper  (size  of 
page,  io1^  x  14  inches),  with  full  descriptions  and  floor  plans.  Each 
set  or  "  class"  is  inclosed  in  a  handsome  cloth  portfolio,  as  follows: 
*  Portfolio  of  $1,000  Houses,  30  designs,  Price  |2 


1,500 

30 

2,000 

30 

2,500 

30 

3,000 

32 

3,500 

36 

4,000 

30 

5,000 

30 

6,000          " 

28 

7,500 

22 

10,000 

21 

Stables 

19 

*  The  first  Portfolio  contains  designs  that  cost  as  low  as  $500, 
$600,    $700   and    $800. 

Any  3  of  the  above  Portfolios  foi  $5;  any  7  for  $10;  the  complete 
set  (12)  for  $15.  Pamphlet  of  specimen  pages,  50c.  Large  bound 
volume  containing  over  200  designs  selected  from  the  portfolios  of 
various  costs,  $5,  returnable  if  not  satisfactory.  When  working 
plans  and  specifications  are  ordered  a  rebate  of  the  amount  paid  for 
Portfolios  or  books  (to  the  extent  of  $5)  is  allowed.  Address  R.  W. 
Shcu'pell,  Architect,  63  Broadway,  New- York.   Mention  Century. 


Send  for  Sample. 

SAMSON   CORDAGE  WORKS, 

164  High  St.  Boston,  Mass. 


PRACTICAL  HINTS 
TO  BUILDERS. 


FREE. 


100  pages.     40  illustrations.     20  short  chapters. 

Over  100,000  copies  of  this  little  book  have  been  sold  at  ten  cents 
each.  We  now  propose  to  put  it  in  the  hands  of  persons  contem- 
plating building.  Send  your  address,  and  we  will  mail  you  a  copy 
free,  together  with  our  lithographic  advertisement,  which,  in  colors, 
represents  the  various  styles  of  Metal  Shingles  and  Roofing  we 
manufacture. 

NATIONAL  SHEET-METAL  ROOFING  CO. 
510  East  20th  Street,  New -York  City. 


PUBLIC  and  private  buildings  are  now  plas- 
tered with  Adamant  Wall  Plaster.  No  more 
falling  ceilings.  No  more  crumbling  walls,  with 
broken  and  defaced  decorations.  Adamant  is  not 
a  guess-work  mixture  of  lime,  hair  and  sand  ;  it 
is  a  machine-made  mortar  put  up  in  bags,  ready- 
to  be  used  at  any  season  of  the  year  by  mixing  with 
water  only.  Bursting  water  pipes  do  not  affect  it, 
it  's  the  best  fire-resisting  plaster  known.  Any 
mason  can  apply  it,  and  300,000  buildings  in  this 
country  plastered  within  three  years  is  the  only 
testimonial  we  need  offer. 

Apply  to  the  following  Companies  for  further 
information. 


The  Adamant  Manufacturing  Co.   Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
The  Keystone  Plaster  Co.  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
The  Keystone  Plaster  Co.  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
The  N.  W.  Adamant  Co.  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
The  N.  W.  Adamant  Co.   West  Superior,  Wis. 
The  N.  W.  Adamant  Co.  Milwaukee,  Wis. 
The  Michigan  Adamant  Co.  Detroit,  Mich. 
The  Michigan  Adamant  Co.  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 
The  New  Jersey  Adamant  Co.  Harrison,  N.  J. 


THE   BEHR    RESIDENCE,    BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 
Plastered  -with  A  damani. 
The  United  Adamant  Co.   Baltimore,  Md. 
The  St.  Louis  Adamant  Co.  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
The  New  England  Adamant  Co.  Boston,  Mass. 
The  Ohio  Adamant  Plaster  Co.  Columbus,  Ohio. 
The  Ohio  Plaster  Co.  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
The  Adamant  Plaster  Co.  Omaha,  Neb. 

The  Indiana  Adamant  Co.  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

The  Connecticut  Adamant  Co.  New  Haven,  Conn. 
The  South  Eastern  Adamant  Co.  Savannah,  Ga. 


The  Chicago  Adamant  Co.  Chicago,  111. 


The  Adamant  Mfg.  Co.  Toronto,  Canada. 


WALL  PAPER 


Improve  your  home  with  our 

ATTRACTIVE 

Remarkably  low  prices. 
Enormous  assortment  of  styles  Honorable  treatment.  We  can  refer 
to  hundreds  of  well-pleased  customers  in  every  section  of  the 
U.  S.  Our  prices  range  from  excellent  IiUSTltE  papers  at  tie.  a  roll  to 
elegant  IllIDKSCENT  EMBOSSED  GOL.DS  at  35c.  For 
8  cts.  postage  will  send  to  any  address,  samples  with  borders  to  match 
A.E.DIAiYIENT  &  CO.  1 206  Market  St.  Philadelphia, pa 

flROUET  FLOORIDG 

I'NflTIONilb-WOOD-MFly:®^ 

— ^       139  FIFTH  AVENUE,  NEW- YORK. 


Designs  in  satinwood,  mahogany,  oak,  cherry,  etc.,  Louis  XVI., 
Moorish,  Japanese  and  other  styles  to  harmonize  with  wood-work. 
Wood  Carpeting  at  low  cost.  THESE  FLOORS  ARE 
EASILY  EAIH  BY  A  GOOD  CARPENTER.  Full 
directions  and  plan  with  each  floor.     Send  for  Book  of  Designs. 


ROYAL  BAVARIAN  ESTABLISHMENT 


MUNICH 
LONDON  ^^ 
&  12*  W.  23d  St 


MAYER   S^  CO. 

STAINED  GLASS  WINDOWS 

Mni„  vAni,-  »-x     OF  SUPERIOR.  MERIT* 
NEW-YORK  JcXg  DESIGNS    SUBMITTED 


=^y 


IDEAL  MUSICAL  BOX 

Is  the  Latest  Invention  in  Swiss  Musical  Boxes.  It 
is  the  Sweetest  and  Most  Perfect  Instrument  for  the 
Parlor.     Any  number  of  tunes  can  he  obtained  for  it. 

The  Largest  Stock  of  Musical  Boxes  in  America.  Send  4  cent 
stamp  for  Illustrated  Catalogue. 

298  BROADWAY, 
NEW-YORK. 


JACOT  &  SON 


1  <^M=        -^  ^' 


@Br/^pFoF?dT*Oii^£:R.T  aARCHg^---^"-^ 
Houses  from  Maine  to  California  are  successfully  stained  wuh 

CABOT'S  CREOSOTE 
SHINGLE  STAINS. 

Send  for  sheaf  of  sketches  of  creosoted  houses,  and  for  samples 
on  wood. 

SAMUEL  CABOT,  Sole  Manufacturer, 
70  Kilby  St.  Boston,  Mass. 

AGENTS  AT  AL.1L  CENTRAL  POINTS. 


i-'    I    ! 


Oct.  '90. 


J-JLS-    C3--   WILSOU, 


Patentee    siimI 

UIamitactm*ei* 


REMOVED 


74  West   33d   Street,  New -York.  ^ 


English  Venetian  Blinds. 


Rolling  Partitions. 


Rolling  Venetian  Blinds. 


~>~vm&^-£^$£$i£& 


This  House  for  $800. 

JUST    OUT- 

Second  edition  of  Houses  and  Cottages  enlarged 
from  33  to  50  designs,  many  entirely  new.  The  designs 
range  from  $300  up  to  $6000 ;  principally  of  low  cost ; 
nine  under  $1000;  twenty  under  $2000.  Full  description 
of  each  and  price  of  material  given  that  estimates  are 
made  upon.  Don't  Fail  to  see  it  if  you  intend  building. 
Price,  $1.25,  post-paid;  12  sample  designs  (Cottage 
Portfolio)  for  25  cents  (two-cent  stamps  taken  for 
uneven  change).    Size  of  Book  8x  10  inches,  102  pages. 

D.  S.  HOPKINS,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 


DEXTER  BROTHERS'  ENGLISH  SHINGLE  STAIN 

This  is  the  Shingle  Stain  which  has  produced  the 
i>eautiful  velvety  effect  on  the  houses  at  Newport,  Bar 
Harbor,  Lenox  and  other  places  in  the  United  States 
where  the  Stain  has  not  faded  or  washed  off. 

Send  for  sample  boards  to  Dexter  Brothers,  55  Broad 
Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

The  following  act  as  our  agents  and  carry  a  stock  of 

our  Stains : 

H.  M.  Hooker  &  Co.,  57  West  Randolph  Street,  Chicago. 
Aquila  Rich  Paint  Co.,  84  William  Street,  New- York. 
Felton,  Ra'   &  Sibley,  Philadelphia. 
Piatt  &  Thornburgh,  St.  Louis. 
Campbell  &  Cutler,  Kansas  City. 
W.  W.  Lawrence  &  Co.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Hewson-Herzog  Supply  Co.,  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis. 
A.  Baldwin  &  Co.,  New  Orleans,  La. 


ACINEr  HAr\DWAF\£  lyTFG.  CO. 


DE  5UITABLE  FOR  0BVERIHG    2LD  9R  MEW  FL9SR.J. 

Mfe.'.V /■§.  NATIVE 


CO  M  B I N  E  v  TO  MAK  E^O 


WQ9D5 


Beautiful a<»f  Durable  Floors 


EWD  F9R.  DEJ1GN  .5HEET  AND  6IVE51ZE  SF  RS5M  F2R  ESTIMATE  8F  <SJT§ 


I   addbess  S.GJ9r1NS9M-RAC|NEwi5. 


ALL     KINDS    OF 

PANELED  AND   EMBOSSED 

ETAL  CEILING 

If  you  are  about  to  build  or  repair  use  a  steel 
ceiling.  It  will  last  forever.  Can  be  applied 
right  over  old  plaster.  Send  for  catalogue, 
designs,  photograph,  estimates,  etc. 

i  LLUM  &  CO.  428  Washington  Street,  N.  Y.  City. 

Sole  agents  for  the  Kinnear  Pat.  Paneled  Ceiling. 

Sheet  Metal  Ornaments, 

STATUARY,  EAGLES, 

CENTER  PIECES, 

Made  of  Brass,  Copper  and  Zinc. 
Galvanized   Iron   Cornices,    Building 

Fronts,  etc.      Send  for  Catalogue  &  Prices  to 

W.  H.  MULLINS, 

206  Depot  Street,  Salem,  Ohio. 
J.  T.  WAGNER,  Sales  Agent,  108  Chambers  Street,  N.  Y.  City. 

MINERAL  WOOL 

For  Fire-proofing,  Deadening  Sound  and  Insulation  of  Heat  and  Cold 
in  Residences,  Cold  Storage  and  Refrigerating  Rooms. 

It    is     Fire-proof,     Frost-proof,    Sound-proof,    Vermin-proof, 
Indestructible,    Odorless. 

Illustrated  Pamphlet  and  Sample  Free. 

WESTERN  MINERAL  WOOL  CO. 

Chicago,  111.     Cleveland,  Ohio.     St.  Louis,  Mo. 


That    Beautiful,     Ornamental    and     Oecorative    Wood-work 
for   Doors,  Transoms,    Arches   and    Windows   known    as     MOORISH      FRET- WO I?tl£     is   manufactured    (only)    by 

C.    S.    RANSOM    Sc    CO.    Cleveland,    Ohio. 

There  is  no  limit  of  design  into  which  this  work  can  be  made.  It  is  made  of  any  domestic  or  imported  woods,  finished  natural,  stained 
or  in  white  and  gold  or  bronzes.  All  leading  decorating,  drapery  or  furniture  houses  will-supply  you.  Patented  as  an  article  of  manufac- 
ture September  15,  1885.  New-York    Office,    10    West    28th    Street. 


Hot  Air  Furnaces  have  been  in  disfavor  with 
some  by  reason  of  the  many  imperfect  construc- 
tions used.  The  Magee  Boston  Heaters  will  give 
better  satisfaction  at  a  less  cost  than  any  hot  water 
or  steam  apparatus  ever  used.  We  guarantee 
them  in  every  respect  when  properly  put  in;  and 
when  desirable  to  apply  hot  water  it  can  be  used 
in  combination.  Send  for  descriptive  circulars 
with  references. 

Magee  Ranges  and  Heating  Stoves  have  also 
a  world-wide  reputation. 

MAGEE   FURNACE  CO. 

32  to  38  Union  St.  Boston.      86  Lake  St.  Chicago. 


Pure  Air  Ventilating  Grate. 


> 

a 

D 
H 

w 
U 

w 
X 
H 
a 


Pure  fresh  air  from  out  of  doors  positively 
heated.  It  will  warm  more  cubic  feet  than  any 
grate  ever  before  offered  to  the  public;  the  extra 
heat  from  hot-air  chamber  is  greater  than  that 
from  a  iox  14  register  of  the  best  furnaces.  Fire 
maintained  without  trouble.  Largest  variety  of 
tiles  for  fire-places  and  floors  in  New  England. 
Manufacturers  of  brass  and  wrought -iron  fenders, 
andirons,  etc.  Send  10c.  stamp  for  200-page 
catalogue  or  stamp  for  circular  only. 

MURDOCK  PARLOR  GRATE  CO. 

18  Beacon  St.  Boston,  Mass. 


Hot  Water  Heaters  &  Warm  Air  Furnaces 


"  PERFECT " 


TRADE   MARK. 


Thousands  of  these  success- 
ful goods  in  use  all  over  the 
country.  Acknowledged  the 
best  made. 


PERFECT"   WARM   AIR   FURNACE. 


Perfect"  Hot  Water  Heater. 


Send  for  Testimonials  and  Circulars, 

RICHARDSON     &     BOY N TON     CO.    Manufacturers. 
232  &  234  Water  St.  New-York.  84  Lake  St.  Chicago. 


Nothing  is  more  essential  to  health  than  an  even,  comfortable  temper- 
ature in  our  homes,  offices  and  public  buildings,  and  how  this  may  be  secured 
is  a  question  of  great  importance  and  of  general  interest.  Various  devices 
for  heating  have  been  employed,  grates,  stoves  and  hot-air  furnaces  having 
been  extensively  used,  but  the  superiority  of  steam  or  water  for  the  distri- 
bution of  heat  is  clearly  demonstrated  by  the  extent  to  which  these  two 
agents  have  taken  precedence  over  all  other  methods.  Great  progress  has 
been  made  during  recent  years  in  the  appliances  for  their  use,  especially  in 
Radiators.  A  new  era  has  dawned.  Indifference  to  appearance  no  longer 
exists.  Artistic  beauty  as  well  as  efficiency  is  now  demanded  and  is 
available  in  our  unrivaled  assortment  of  steam  and  water  Radiators,  which 
comprises  both  the  plain  and  ornamental  of  the  latest  styles  and  most 
pleasing  designs,  and  in  an  almost  endless  variety  of  sizes. 

PIERCE  STEAM-HEATING  COMPANY, 

Works  and  General  Office,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Chicago,  III. 

55  Fifth  Avenue. 


Boston,  Mass. 

42  Oliver  Street 


New -York,  N.  Y. 
94  and  96  Centre  Street. 


The  Glenwood  Range  is 
the  King  of  the  Kitchen. 


The  Weir  Stove  Co.  of  Taun- 
ton,   Mass.,    are   the    makers. 


iSSSISSSSSSS 


Send  for  Catalogue  covering  all  the  scientific 
points  and  Price-L.ist. 

RUSSEL  WHEELER  &  SON, 
Utica,  N.  Y. 


The  Hopson  &  Chapin  MT g  Co.,  of  New  London, 
Conn.,  will  take  pleasure  in  showing  their  plans  and 
estimates    for   warming    any  building    by    Hot   Water. 

Radiators  may  be  placed  in  the 
room  to  be  warmed,  or  the  warmed 
air    may  enter  through    Registers. 

This  Company's  work  has  been 
in  use  for  several  years,  and  refer- 
ences to  gentlemen  of  standing  will 
be  given.     The  system  is  very  old,  and  with  our  modern  improvements  has 
come  to  be  known  as  the  perfection  of  modern  heating. 


Heating  of  Homes*  a,  Specialty, 

STEAM  Al 
HOT  WATE 


VICTOR 


THEATERS. 


THE   RICHMOND    STOVE    COMPANY, 

NORWICH,  CONN. 

Isaac  Coffin  &  Co 52  Sudbury  Street,  Boston. 

Steam  Engineering  Co. 704  Arch  Street,  Phila. 

Dewstoe  &  Schneider,     ....       i59  Seneca  Street,  Cleveland. 

Webster  &  Meathe, 73  Shelby  Street,  Detroit. 

L.  H.  Prentice  Co.  ------    205  Van  Buren  Street,  Chicago. 

Allan  Black, St.  Paul,  Minn. 


DUNNING   Patent  Wrought-lron   BOILER 


WITH  SELF-FEEDING  COAL  MAGAZINE 

IS    THE    BEST   FOR 

Low  Pressure  Steam  or  Hot-Water  Heating, 

And  insures  a  warm  House  night  and  day.    Over  15,000  in  use. 

Keeps  steam  up  constantly.     Also  Steam  Engines  and 

Boilers  of  all  kinds  and  Machinery  generally. 

MANUFACTURED   AT   THE 

NEW-YORK    CENTRAL    IRON    WORKS, 

e  mahk.  IB^  No.  67  Exchange  Street,  Geneva,  N.  Y 

NEW-YORK    OFFICE,    36    PARK    PLACE. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Catalogue  with  full  description. 


u 


ESTABLISHED   184-9. 


INCORPORATED    1884. 


Boynton"  Hot  Water  Heater 

(12)  Twelve  Sizes.     No  Brick-work  required. 

These  Heaters  are  operated  in  a  most  successful  manner  in  many  Residences, 

Schools,  Apartment  Houses  and  Greenhouses,  and  are  pronounced  by 

scientific  experts  the  most  effective,  economical,  and  of  the  best 

mechanical  construction,  of  any  on  the  market.     Also  sole 

manufacturer  of  the  celebrated  Boynton 

Furnaces,  Ranges,  etc. 


MANUFACTURED   ONLY   BY 


THE    BOYNTON    FURNACE    CO. 

47  &  49  Dearborn  St.  CHICAGO,  ILL.  207  &  209  Water  St.  NEW-YOKK. 

I^SEND   FOR   CIRCULAR. ^gl 


Residence  of    Hon.   JAS.   McMILLAN,   U.  S.  Senator,    Grosse    Pointe,    Mich. 
Heated    by    BOLTON     HEATER.  Lighted    ey   COMBINATION    GAS    MACHINE. 


BOLTON 

HOT   WATER 

HEATER. 

It  is  the  most  ECONOMICAL  and  COMFOBTABLE. 
It  cannot  cause  FIRES  or  EXPLOSIONS. 
Its  warmth  is  the  most  EQUABLE  and  HEALTHFUL. 
It  is  absolutely  CLEANLY  and  NOISELESS. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Boote, 
"WARMTH     FOR    WINTER     HOMES." 


COMBINATION 

GAS   MACHINE. 

One-half  cent  per  hour  per  burner  is  the  average  cost 
in  localities  convenient  to  gasoline  market. 
Has  been  in  use  twenty  years  without  a  single  accident. 


Send  for  Illustrated  JBooh, 
"LIGHT    FOR    EVENING    HOURS." 


Detroit  Heating  and  Lighting  Co. 

310  Wight  Street,  Detroit,  Mich. 

CHICAGO,  8S  Lake  St. 
BOSTON,  42  Pearl  St.  ST.  LOUIS,  508  N.  4-th  St. 


PI 


By  HOT  WATER  CIRCULATION. 

//Ar/OtfAL//OTltfArE/?//£AT£/?  Co. 


SOLE     MANUFACTURERS 


BOSTON. 195  &  137  Fort  Hiuw  Sq.. 


CHICAGO. 108   lake  5rfttST, 


THE   "<r PENCE. 


Warm  Air 
rz(\  Furnaces 

<ir  V/YEARS     EXPERIENCE  AS 
HEATING-^0  VENTILATING 
ENGINEERS 

Tor  Information  Apply  To  Your  Sham 
Hiter  or  Furnace  Dealer  or  send  For 
Illustrated   Pamphlet,  mailed  Tree. 

FimER&WARRf  N  @. 

TROY.  CHICAGO.  CLEVELAND. BOSTON,  NEW.YORKj 


Simplest  and  Best. 

Automatic,  Economical  and  Durable, 

Ho  Engineer 

OR 

Skilled  Labor 
is  required. 

Burns  either 

Hard  or  Soit 

Coal. 


Agents  in  the 
trade  wanted 
everywhere. 


Manufactured 

under 
Fiske's  Patents. 


Illustrated 
Catalogue, 
References 
and  Estimates 
furnished 
free. 

Duplex   Steam    Heater   Co., 

23  Bethune  St.,  New  York. 


FURMAN  BOILERS 


ECONOMICAL- SUBSTANTIAL- SAFE. 

56  Styles  and  Sizes  — Burn  Hard  or  Soft  Coal. 

MODERN  HOT-WATER  HEATING 

These  Boilers  have  a  high  reputation  for  Staunchness,  Durability 
and  Safety,  and  are  great  COal  savers.  Minimum  Friction  and 
Maximum  Velocity  only  obtained  by  Vertical  Water  Circulation. 
Send  for  new  150-page  book  giving  full  particulars  and  a  great  deal  of 
yaluable  information  on  modern  Heating  and  Ventilation,  with  plans  and 
tables  for  correct  hot-water  work.     Mailed  free.     Address 

HERENDEEN  MFG.  CO.  10  Elm  Street,  Genera,  N.  Y. 


IP 


"  Ay,  thou  art  welcome,  heaven's  delicious  breath, 
When  woods  begin  to  wear  the  crimson  leaf, 
And  suns  grow  meek,  and  the  meek  suns  grow  brief, 

And  the  year  smiles  as  it  draws  near  its  death." 

— "  October"  William  Cullen  Bryant. 


"  Golden  October  "  is  an  ever-welcome  month, 
and  the  evenings  at  home  are  rendered  perfect 
when  that  home  is  the  possessor  of  the 

GURNEY  HOT  WATER  HEATER 
AND  RADIATOR. 


It  brings  joy,  gladness,  contentment  and  health. 
f     Probably  you  are  not  aware  that  we  have  pub- 


rW 


lished  two  books  of  sterling  educational  merit, 


"HOW  BEST  TO  HEAT  OUR  HOMES," 

and  -TESTIMONIAL  COMPANION/' 


Do  not  fail  to  send  your  address,  and  we  will  mail  you  copies  free. 


Mention  The  Centukv. 


Gurney   Hot-Water  Heater  Company, 

Main  Office,  163  Franklin  Street,  corner  Congress,  Boston,  Mass. 

NEW-YORK,  88  JOHN   STREET.  CHICAGO,  47   SO.    CANAL  STREET. 


Cory's  Excelsior  Gas-Tight  Furnaces. 

Seventeen  Sizes,  Portable  and  Masonry. 

From  $35.00  to  $125.00. 

Pure  air  is  necessary  for  Health.  The  supply  is  always  outside 
the  house.  When  heated  over  the  surface  of  a  GAS-TIGHT 
FURNACE,  with  large  radiation,  the  best  results  are  obtained. 
The  modern  radiator  (steam  or  water)  simply  raises  the  temperature 
of  the  impure  air  in  the  room  in  which  it  is  placed.  Ask  local  dealer 
for  estimate,  or  address  for  circulars 

UZAL  CORY  &  CO.  210  and  212  Water  Street,  New- York. 
Oct.  »90. 


FLORIDA 

STEAM  AND  HOT  WATER  HEATERS 


Ld 


30 

m 

-o 


< 
oc 

< 

CO 
CD 

00 

r; 

CO 

m 
p 

19  Sizes  for  Steam.     14  Sizes  for  Hot 
Water.     15  Sizes  for  Soft  Coal. 

POSITIVELY    NON-EXPLOSIVE—  ECONOMICAL- 
WILL  NOT  RUST  OUT— WILL  LAST  A  LIFE-TIME— 
IS    SELF-FEEDING  -WILL   RUN    FROM    10   TO   24 
HOURS  WITHOUT  ATTENTION. 

THOUSANDS  AND  THOUSANDS  IN  USE 

RELIABLE  AGENTS   IN   ALL  THE   LEADING  CITIES 

AND  TOWNS   IN   THE   UNITED  STATES. 

SEND    FOR    NEW    CATALOGUE. 

PIERCE,  BUTLER  &  PIERCE  MANUFAC'G  CO. 

SOLE    MANUFACTURERS,  SYRACUSE,    N.Y. 


AUTOMATIC    REGULATORS 

For  Furnace,  Steam  or  Hot- Water  Heaters. 

The  heater  positively  controlled  by  the  temperature  of  the  living  rooms  of  the  house. 

An  Even  Temperature  maintained  at  all  times.  No  running  up  and  doiun  stairs  td 
change  drafts  of  the  furnace.  No  colds  resulting  from  uneven  temperature.  No  waste  of 
fuel  from  over-heated  furnaces. 

Solid  comfort  during  the  winter  months.  Write  for  illustrated  catalogue.  Agents  wanted 

CONSOLIDATED  TEMPERATURE  CONTROLLING  CO.  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

The    New   England  Fire  and  Heat   Regulator  Co.,  Hemenway  Building,  10  Tremont 
Street,  Boston,   sole  agents   for   New    England. 


What  is  more  aggravating  than  leaky 
valves,  whether  in  House,  Office  or  Fac- 
tory? If  you  wish  to  avoid  annoyance, 
INSIST  on  having 

JENKINS  BRON.'  VALVES 
Accept  no  valves  as  JENKINS   BROS. 
unless  stamped  with  our  "  Trade-Mark," 
like  cut. 

TIJotin  St.  New-York.        54  Dearborn  St.  Chicago. 
21  North  Fifth  St.  Phila.  105  Milk  St.  Boston. 


BEFORE  BUYING  GRATES  &JJANTELS 

Write  for  our  illustrated  thirty-two  page  circular 
of  the  celebrated 

ALDINE  FIRE  PLACE,  SENT  FREE. 

We  will  ship  the  ALDINE  to  any  responsible 
person  under  positive  guarantee  of  our 

claims.     See  our  advertisement  in  September 
Century,  and  address 

ALDINE  MFG.  CO.  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 


& 


POWERS'    DUPLEX 


£ 


^HBBa^^^  Temperature   Regulator 


,-jfijitfti 


11    '  i.'iiftv.1'" 


faimiiiiwwmiimiiHili 


JJ0TWATER& 

Ul  "lUUUlunuiui„||i|im)ll^)U|)'uj|;jj|jjj]]||1|||i1m 

REGULATOR 


Automatically  controls  the  dampers  of  a  Heating  Apparatus  without  any  atten- 
tion "whatever. 

NO    ELECTRICITY   USED! 

Vapor  Pressure  formed  by  ordinary  house  temperature  does  the  work.     Applicable  to 

Low  Pressure  Steam,  Hot  Water  and  Furnace. 
Adds  fifteen  per  cent,  to  the  capacity  of  any  Hot  Water  System,  and  absolutely 

PREVENTS    BOILING    OVER. 

Maintains  a  uniform  temperature  at  all  times  and  saves  fuel. 

Write  for  descriptive  circular  and  price-list. 

W.   P.   POWERS,  79  Erie  Street,  Chicago,  111. 


VENTILATING  HEATERS. 

Before  making  your  contract  for  heating  your  building,  send  for 

catalogue  of  the 


STEAM    AND  WARM  AIR  COMBINED 


ECONOMY  HEATERS. 

HOT-WATER  OR  STEAM 

Combined   with   Direct   Air  Heat. 

J.    F.    PEASE    COMPANY, 

Main  Office  and  Works,  SYRACUSE,  N.  Y. 

Branches : 

NEW-YORK,  BOSTON,         CHICAGO,         HARRISBURG. 

Canadian  Works,  TORONTO. 

in  all  large  cities  and  towns 


SALES  AGENCIES 


of  the  United  States. 


v  L>  *  I  *    ■- J    \ 


DON'T  STOOP 

To  use  a  valve  that  must  be  opened  or  closed  by  hand,  but  make  your 
foot  save  your  back,  wrists  and  temper. 

Use  W.  E.  WOOD'S  Patent 

TRADE 

PEDAL  VALVE 

MARK. 

For  Direct  Radiators.  Radical  Improvements  for  i8go.  Mech- 
anism simplified  one-half.  Strong  points  of  economy.  Prices 
Reduced.  Valve  seats  with  the  pressure,  and  the  greater  the 
pressure  the  tighter  it  will  close.  Seat  is  perpendicular,  and 
chips  and  dirt  fall  away  from  it.  A  touch  of  the  foot  wil)  turn  the 
heat  on  or  off.  No  packed  joints  to  leak  on  floor  or  carpet. 
Patented  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  Circulars  and  en- 
dorsements on  application. 

UTICA  STEAM  GAUGE  CO.  Utica,  N.  Y, 

Territorial  Agencies  :  Geo.  K.  Paul  &  Co.,  Boston.  Pan- 
coast  &  Maule,  Philadelphia.  McIntosh,  Huntington  &  Co., 
Cleveland.     James  B.  Clow  &  Son,  Chicago. 


THE  BAY  STATE  FRANKLIN. 

An  Elegant  Russia  Iron  Open  Stove 

or  Portable  Fireplace, 
LIGHT,  AND  EASILY  MOVED ! 
SUITABLE  FOR  ANY  ROOM ! 
INVALUABLE  FOR  SICK  CHAMBERS! 
Especially  desirable  for  the  cool  mornings 
and  evenings  of  this  season  of  the  year,  as 
^well  as  in  the  winter  months.     Can  be  fitted 
for  wood,  coal  and  gas.     Send  for  circular. 

BARSTOW  STOVE  CO. 
Bay  State  Furnaces,  Ranges  and  Stoves, 


BOSTON. 


PROVIDENCE. 


NEW-YORK. 


The  Berkshire  Hills 
Sanatorium 

For  the  cure  of  Cancer  in  all  its  forms,  without  the  use  of  the 
knife.     Book  with  complete  information  mailed  free.     Address 
Dr.  W.  E.  BROWN  &  SON,  North  Adams,  Mass. 

STEAM  AND  HOT  WATER  HEATING  APPARATUS 

—  FOR  — 

Public  Buildings, 

Residences,  etc. 

OUR  SPECIALTIES: 

Mercer's  Patent  Sectional  Boiler, 
Gold's  Patent  Sectional  Boiler, 

Mill's  Patent  Safety  Boiler, 
The  Union  Hot  Water  Radiator, 

Reed's  Cast-iron    Radiators, 
Indirect  Pin  Radiators. 

The  H.  B.  SMITH  CO. 

137  Centre  St.  New-York. 

Foundry,  Westfield,  Mass. 
SEND  FOR  CIRCULARS. 


HOUSE  HEATING 


The  "  Gorton." 

a    VERY  IMPORTAHT. 

Don't  decide 

Until  you  have 
seen 

THE  GORTON 
BOILER, 

AND    READ    THEIR 

HEW  CATALOGUE. 

SAVES  HEALTH,  TIME,  MONEY  AND  PATIENCE. 
BURNS  EITHER  HARD  OR  SOFT  COAL. 

Iflie    Latter  without    Smoke. 
Call  and  see  for  yourself. 

THE  GORTON  &  LIDGERWOOD  CO. 

34  and  3G  West  Monroe  St.  Chicago. 
197-203  Congress  St.  Boston. 
96  Liberty  St.  New- York. 


STEAM  OR  WATER. 


STEAM   OR  WATER. 


THE  BRONSON  WATER-TUBE  BOILER 


has  an  upright  fire  surface  ;  fire  crosses  the  tubes 
three  distinct  times,  thus  insuring  perfect  combus- 
tion and  consequent  fuel  economy  ;  tubes  are  easily 
reached  and  quickly  cleaned  in  water  or  steam; 
rigidly  guaranteed  as  represented  or  no  pay. 
Send  for  new  catalogue. 


Weston  Engine  Co.  ( *£),  Painted  post,  i.  y. 


New -York  Agent,  H.  J.  BARRON,  74  Cortlandt  St. 
Also  builders  of 

AUTOMATIC     ENGINES. 

Correct  in  design,  workmanship  and  price. 


THE    HOUSE    OWNER'S    DILEMMAS. 

Q.   How  shall  I  heat  my  house  ?     Ans.  By  Steam  or  Hot  Water. 
Q.  What  Boiler  shall  I  use  ?     Ans.  Morgan's. 

This  is  a  very  important  matter  and  one  that  requires  careful  consideration. 
If  you  wish  to  avoid  annoyance  investigate  our  late  improved  methods  and 
apparatus.     You  will  find  them 

RELIABLE,  DURABLE,  EFFICIENT,  ECONOMICAL. 

As  you  consult  your  Physician  when  in  need  of  his  services,  consult  us  in  this  mat- 
ter.    Give  us  particulars  and  our  advice,  based  on  long  experience,  will  be  given  you. 

Illustrated  Descriptive  Pamphlet  Free  to  All. 

WRITE    NEAREST  OFFICE.  ESTIMATES    FREE. 

The  D.  T.  MORGAN  BOILER    CO.  Manufacturers, 

AKRON,   OHIO. 

THE  COBB  HEATING-  00.   General  Agents, 

23  WEST  LAKE  ST.  CHICAGO.  48    CENTRE  ST.  NEW-YORK. 


'SIZES;* 


W&s 


AND 


SAHG& 


JJ£ 


World's 


SOLD  BY  FIRST-GLASS  MERCHANTS  EVERYWHERE. 

Whenever  and  wherever  you  see  this  trade-mark 
upon  a  stove  or  range, you  may  be  CERTAIN  that 
it  is  the  very  best  article  that  can  be  had  for  the 
price  asked.  Many  imitations  and  substitutes  will 
be  offered  you,  which  will  be  claimed  to  be  "just 
as  good"  or  better  than  the  "GARLAND."  Avoid 
them  and  look  carefully  for  this  trade-mark. 

THE  MICHIGAN  STOVE  COMPANY, 


JANES   & 
Special  New-York  City  Agents. 


KIRTLAND, 

110  to  116  Beekman  St. 


BRIGGS  &  COS  PATENT  TRANSFER  PAPERS. 

We  -will  send,  you  our  Catalogue,  show- 
ing hundreds  of  designs,  on  receipt  of  15  c, 
and  one   dollar's  worth   of  good  designs  for 

soc;  aii  for  45  c.  87  Leonard  Street,  N.  Y. 


OPEN  GRATES  and  FRANKLIN  STOVES 

Are  a  specialty  with  us,  and  our  line  includes 
Mantel  Grates,  Tile  Grates,  Ventilating  Grates, 
and  the  celebrated  Mayflower,  a  wood  Frank- 
lin Stove,  made  directly 
from  a  set  of  old  Colo- 
nial Patterns.  It  is  a 
perfect  substitute  for  a 
Brick  Fire-place  at  one- 
third  the  cost. 

We  are  also  makers 
of  the  Sanitas  Plumbing 
Specialties,  which  em- 
body the  important  re- 
quisites of  Science,  Sim- 
plicity and  Safety  to  a 
greater  extent  than  any  other  system.  We  make 
a  specialty  of  Sanitary  Appliances,  including 
Heating,  Cooking,  Ventilating  and  Plumbing 
Apparatus,  and  can  give  valuable  suggestions 
to  those  building  or  remodeling  their  houses. 

Our  goods  are  sold  everywhere,  by  Stove- 
dealers  and  Plumbers.  Wholesale  houses  at 
New- York,  Chicago,  San  Francisco  and  Lon- 
don. 

SMITH  &  ANTHONY  STOVE  CO. 

48  to  54  Union  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


A  complete  garment  worn  under 
the  corset  or  flannels,  protecting 
,  the  clothing  from  perspiration 
Cheaper  than  dress  shields,  one 
pair  doing  the  work  of  six. 
.  J^,nTrpTiT^^,*«X        Misses' bust  measure,  28-33,$  .80 

pRUItUQpf^    VJ        Ladies 34-39,    1.00 

M.  DEWEY,  Mnfi.  ,1397  W.  Monroe  St., Chicago.}  AGENTS 
Send  Money  by  P.  O.  order.     Catalogue  Free.  <       WA-NTED. 


"ACHES    AND    PAINS    lfLL    FEAR    NO    MORE!!" 

is  what  a  lady  said  after  using  an 

EMPIRE   WRINGER! 

"It  works  so  easy  I  do  my  work  in  half  the  time  it  took  with  my  old  wringer,  saves  my 
clothes,  and  doesn't  tire  me  out."    IT  WRINGS  DRYER,  WEARS  LONGER  and  is 

THE  ONLY  WRINGER  WHICH  DOES  NOT  HAVE  THE  CRANK  ATTACHED  TO  EITHER  ROLL.      It  is 

constructed  in  this  'way  to  save  labor.     It  is  warranted  against  defects,  requires  no  oil  and 
never  rusts,     jj^©^  Agents  Wanted  Everywhere. 

EMPIRE     WRINGER    CO.    Auburn,  N.  Y. 


s/W 


WE  ARE  ALL  SO  HAPPY 


\. 


Because  we  play  "HALMA,"  and  Papa  has  promised  if  we  are  real  good  children  we  shall  have  "BASILINDA, 
and  delightful  amusement  by  the  author  of  "  HALMA."      "HALMA,"  the  Popular  Game,  is  just  the  thing  for  a  Holiday 
"HALMA"  is  for  sale  everywhere,  or  sent  free  on  receipt  of  $1.00. 


BASILINDA,"  that  new 
Present. 


tmss 


HALMA 


^XSAME 

E.  I.  HORSMAN,  Publisher,  80  and  82  William  St.  N.  Y. 


a 


The   Knack" 

Is  our  latest  camera.  Its  name  is 
fortunate.  There  's  knack  in  making 
a  first  rate  camera  that  can  be  sold 
for  $15.  There's  knack  in  taking  a 
picture  with  any  kind  of  a  camera,  so 
that,  in  supplying  the  camera  and  the 
knack  at  the  same  time,  you  ought  to 
make  a  good  picture.  To  be  sure  you 
get  the  Knack,  send  to  the  Scovill 
&  Adams  Co.,  423  Broome  street, 
N.  Y.,  for  descriptive  circular. 
October. 


ro* 


Top  189° 

SAFETIES 

QffDlNAfflE5  ••••- 

TANDEMS 

TTHCYCLM"" 

HIGHEST  GffADL" 

DNLV 
CATALOGUE    FREE 

FOFE-ArG-C* 

17  FffftWLlN  5t- 

-••D«SToN  — 
.Dranch    Houses • 

eVy/^t*P&— ■ T    591    WABASH    *v^ 5S^ 


|1&lo£nje 

I  have  published  the  most 
exquisite  catalogue  of 
Sportsmen's  Supplies  in  the 
United  States,  and  offer  it, 
not  only  as  a  complete  cata- 
logue, but  also  as  a  superb 
work  of  art  and  book  of  ref- 
erence. 

700  illustrations  by  the 
most  noted  artists  in  Amer- 
ica render  it  of  unique  value 
to  the  sportsman,  and  yet 
no  person,  young  or  old,  who 
loves  recreation  can  fail  to 
be  benefited  by  a  perusal  of 
its  pages. 

I  make  a  nominal  charge  of  50  cents 
each  for  them,  which  is  less  than  one- 
half  actual  cost,  and  put  a  coupon  in 
each  copy,  that  is  received  as  50  cents 
on  the  first  dollar's  worth  of  goods 
purchased. 

Send  for  the  book  and  be 
convinced  of  its  merits.  Spec- 
imen pages  gratis. 

MKL5QUIR5 

I75  Bwdu&y  NewYork 


A  GOOD  WAY  NOT  TO  MAKE  A  CAGE, 


Our  Cameras  Photograph  the  World. 

1  8,000 

Sold  since  Oct.,  1886. 

Wonderful  Photographic 
Inventions. 

C.  P.  Stirn's  Patent 

CONCEALED    VEST 

CAMERAS, 

with  the  new  shutter  for  time  and 
instantaneous  exposures,  in  a  handsome  polished  black  walnut, 
plush-lined  Carrying  Case. 

Size  No.  i,  6  in.  Diameter,  i  lb.  in  Weight,  Fine  Nickel-plated 
Apparatus,  with  6  Plates  for  36  Pictures,  1%  in.  Diameter,  $10.00. 

Size  No.  2,  7  in.  Diameter,  1  yx  lb.  in  Weight,  with  6  Plates  for 
24  Pictures,  2^  in.  Diameter,  $15.00. 

This  Camera  is  carried  under  the  coat  or  vest,  invisible  to  the  eye, 
and  is  always  ready  and  in  focus. 

Our  new  PANORAMIC  CAMERA,  "THE  AVON- 
DEK,"  just  out.  Size  of  box,  4x4  x  6  in.,  makes  pictures  3^  in. 
wide,  18  in.  long,  $30.00. 

We  keep  all  the  leading  Detective  and  Amateur  Cameras  — 
Eclipse,  Hawk-eye,  Montauk,  Tom  Thumb,  Waterbury,  Model 
Improved,  etc.,  with  full  instructions  for  beginners. 

Complete  Outfits  from  $2.50  to  $25.00  each.  Everything  in 
Photo  Supplies  and  Chemicals. 

Illustrated  Catalogues  free.  Send  5-cent  stamp  for  2  Vest  Cam- 
era Pictures,  or  10-cent  stamp  for  1   Panoramic  Camera  Picture  to 

STIRN  &  LYON, 

No.  20    PARK    PLACE,   NEW-YORK. 

Sole  Agents  for  C.   P.  Stirn's  Patents. 


Soldered  up,  with  hollow  or  thin 
drilled  bands,  flimsy  and  vermin- 
harboring.  It  answers  "  to  sell," 
but  it  has  no  strength,  and  soon  falls 
apart.  The  Hendryx  cage  is  made 
of  hard,  brass  spring  wire,  riveted 
(no  solder  or  drilled  bands,  with  no 
hiding-place  for  vermin).  Buy  it  of 
your  dealer. 

The  Andrew  B.   Hendryx  Co. 

New  Haven,  Conn. 

BUY  THE   MASCOT 

FISHING  REELS. 

Tlie  Best  Multiplyers  made. 

If  your  dealers  cannot  supply  you  send 
direct  to  factory,  and  we  will  tell  you 
where  you  can  get  them. 

The  Star  Reel  Works, 

Birmingham,  Conn. 


TRICYCLES    BABY  WAGONS 


Boys'  & 

Girls' 

Delight. 


All 
Grades. 


Save    money   by   buying   from   the 
makers.     Send  for  prices. 

New  Haven   Rattan   Co. 
New  Haven,  Conn. 


Size 
^5  ^^  I      ^^    Dv  druggists.    By  Mail  25  cents.    Circulars  free. 
OULLrJ^  BIRCH  &  CO.,  79  Washington  St.,  Brookhu,  IV.  V. 

THE  EAGLE 

THE   EASIEST  RUNNING  BICYCLE 

IN  THE  WORLD. 
J8@="Speed,  Comfort  and  Safety. 
AGENTS  WANTED. 
Large  Illustrated  Catalogue  sent  Free  to  any  Address. 

THE  EAGLE  BICYCLE  MFG.  CO., 
sxa:ivxi^or.i>,  coiiviv. 


New  Kodak  Cameras. 


"  You  press  the  button,  we  do  the  rest" 

(or  you  can  do  it  yourself.) 

Seven   New   Styles  and   Sizes 

ALL   LOADED    WITH 

Transparent   Films. 

For  Sale  by  all  Photo.  Stock  Dealers.  Send  for  Catalogue. 

THE    EASTMAN    COMPANY,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 


DON'T   BE   FOOLISH! 

If  you  intend  to  buy  an  exerciser  or  chest  weight,  don't  buy  the  old  style?.  We  have  created 
a  Revolution  in  this  business.  Just  patented  this  year  the  o7ily  exerciser  in  the  -world  that 
works  without  guide-rods  or  ivires. 

The  simplest  and  cheapest  on  the  market. 

Noiseless. — Put  up  at  any  height. —  6  inches  floor  room. —  Suited  for  men,  women  or 
children  —  the    invalid    or   athlete. 

The  following  letter  is  from  the  President  of  the  Medical    Society  of  the 
County  of  New -York. 
The  Star  Exerciser  Co. ,  New  -  York  :  New  -York>  June  24>  1890. 

I  am  familiar  with  nil  the  different  kinds  of  Exercisers  in  use  in  the  city,  and  do 
not  hesitate  to  express  my  decided  preference  for  the  "  New  Star."  In  every 
respect  I  think  it  is  the  best.     Yours  truly,  Alexander  S.  Hunter,  M.  D., 

32  East  2Qth  Street. 

Send  stamps  for  Pamphlets  —  40  pages  —  no  charge. 

"How  to  Get  Strong."       "How  wc  Trained  our  Children."       "Exercise  in  Disease." 

Price  of  Exerciser,  with  book  complete,  $6.     Old  styles  half  price. 

STAR  EXERCISER  CO.  710  Broadway,  New -York. 

HAVE   YOU    SEEN    THE    NEW    1890   MODEL 


DETECTIVE      I      VIEW      I      AUTOMATIC      |     MAGAZINE 
CAMERA.  I     CAMERA.      |  CAMERA.  !  CAMERA. 

If  not,  send  at  once  for  the  Hawk-Eye  Booklet,  containing  full  description  and  sample  picture.  The  perfection  of  Instantaneous 
Photographic  Apparatus.  100  pictures  without  reloading.  Prices,  $15  to  $50.  When  so  desired  we  will  do  the  developing  and 
finishing.  THE  BLAIR  CAMERA  CO.  Manufacturers,  also  makers  of  the  Celebrated  Blair  Reversible  Back,  English 
Compact  and  other  Cameras,  Lenses  and  Accessories.  Factories  :  471,  473,  475,  477  and  485  TREMONT  ST.,  Boston,  Mass. 
Branches:  208  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. ;  918  Arch  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.     Also  sold  by  Dealers  in  Photo.  Goods  everywhere. 


SWIFT    DOUBLE-ACTION   AUTOMATIC    REVOLVER. 


NEW 
PATENT. 


THE 

ONLY 

PERFECTLY 

SAFE 

PISTOL 

MADE. 


UNEQDALED 

For  Symme- 
try, Eeauty, 

Material  and  WorkmansJiip 
AS   PERFECT   A   PISTOL  AS 
CAN  POSSIBLY  BE  MADE. 


If  your  dealer  does  not  have  it,  we  will  send  it 
post-paid  on  receipt  of  price. 


Barrel  Catch. 

mpossible  to  throw  the 
barrel  open  when 
discharged. 
38  Cal. 
Using  S.&W. 
C,  F. 
Cartridges 


Send  6c.  in  stamps  for  our  100-page  illus- 
trated Catalogue  of  Guns,  Rifles,  Revol- 
vers, Police  Goods,  Sporting  Goods  of  all 
kinds,  etc.      This  Catalogue  is  so  large  the  postage  on  it  alone  costs  fc. 


JOHN  P.  LOYELL  ARMS  CO.  Manufacturers,  Boston,  Mass 


For  Sale 
by  all 
dealers. 


DON'T   BUY 

UNTIL 

YOU 

HAVE 

SEEN 
THE  SWIFT. 

ASK 

ANY 

DEALER. 


STEAM  YACHTS,  BOWBOATS  AND  CANOES. 


!l:Hil:liliE'-,,:".i' 


Racine  Automatic  Oil-Burning  Outfits.  Fuel,  either 
Crude  Oil  or  Kerosene.  Automatic  Fire,  Automatic  Steam 
Regulator,  Automatic  Water  Regulator,  Automatic  Engineer  after 
starting.  Automatic  cleanliness  and  safety ;  in  short,  a  genuine 
Automatic    Success. 

Also  Racine  Automatic  Stationary  Engines,  same  fuel.  Also 
Racine  Automatic  Pumping  Outfits,  same  fuel. 

Also  manufacturers  of  the  celebrated  Racine  Canoes,  Rowboats 
and  Hunting  Boats  (not  automatic).  Send  stamp,  specifying  cata- 
logue desired,  Yacht,  Boat  or  Stationary  Engine. 

THOMAS   KANE  &  COMPANY,  Chicago,  111. 

BICYCLES 

ALL  MAKES 

Hew  or  Second-Hand. 

We  are  manufacturers'  or  importer'8  aeenta  for  every  cycle 
handled  in  this  country,  and  constantly  carry  400  to  500  wheels 
including  many  rare  bargains  in  not  only  second-hand  and  shop 
worn  machines,  but  also  standard  makes  new  wheels  bought  in 
job  lots.  Best  makes  bovs  wheels  cheap.  Agents  wanted. 
C  AQV  DA  VMEMTC  With  no  extra  charge.  Lowest  prices 
LnO  I    In  I  IflCIl  I  0  guaranteed.  Low  ratesSby  fast  freight 

;»sa  LARGEST  STOCK  IN  THE  U,  S. 

wheels  and  type-writers  taken  in  exchange.  Headquarters  for  all 
cycling  goods;  our  superior  inducements  bring  us  orders  regular- 
'y  from  every  state  and  territory.  Send  for  illustrated  catalogue 
with  latest  second-hand  and  bargain  list,  introductory  terms,  etc. 

ROUSE,  HAZARD  &  CO.,  6  G  St.,  Peoria,  III. 


PARABOL0N 


MAGIC  LANTERNS!? 
STEREOPTICONS. 

Kerosene  Oil  or  Lime  Light. 

For  Entertainment  or  Instruction  at  home 

or  in  large  halls. 

DO  YOU  PHOTOGRAPH? 

We  can  make  Lantern  Slides  from  your  Negatives. 

Special  faculties  on  the  premises  for  the  production 

of  the  very  finest  Colored   Slides,   Apparatus,  &c. 

Catalogues  Free.    Correspondence  Solicited. 
J.  B.  COLT  &  CO.,  16  Beekman  Street,  New  York. 

OUTFITS    FOR    YOUNG    PEOPLE. 


BOWDISH   MFG.  CO.  Skaneateles,  N.  Y. 

BUILDERS    OF 

FINE  BOATS,  CANOES  AND  LAUNCHES. 

Marine  and  Stationary  Engines,  Water-Tube  Boilers,  Etc. 

Send  8  cents  for  Catalogue.     First-class  work  only. 


E 


DUCATE  YOUR  CHILDREN 

WHILE  YOU  AMUSE  THEM  ! 

W[thKJlEeRd's " ANCHOR  BOXES" 

STONE  Building  Blocks 

"  in  miniature." 

THE    TOY    OF    TOYS  ! 

Genuine  only  with  Trade-! Mark"  Anchob." 
PRICES  REDUCED. 
One  letter  init  of  thousands  : 
Cooper  Union  Institutk,  New  York, 
write  to  us,  as  follows  : 

.  .  .  Your  Building  Blocks  have  proved 
of  the  greatest  advantage,  usefulness,  .  .  . 

Prices  from  2o  cts.  upward. 
At  all  prominent  Toy  Dealers. 
FREE  Illustrated    Descriptive 
Catalogue  sent  upon  application  to 

W,    AD.    RtCHTER     Sc     CO., 

310  Broadway,  N"e"W  York. 


Great  Sport  for  Children. 
A  Lever  Propelling  Sled. 

A  wonderful  success.  Will  distance 
a  skater  on  ice  and  make  lively 
speed  on  snow -path.  A  healthful 
exercise  highly  endorsed  by  physi- 
cians. Send  for  circular  and  prices 
to  GrlFFORD  MFGr.  CO. 
Sole  Mfrs.       Watertown,  N.  Y. 


•  THE  STAR  BANJO  • 

Is  made  on  entirely  new  prin- 
ciples and  produces  the  most  de- 
sirable quality  of  tone  combined 
with  the  greatest  volume  and 
carrying-  power,  making  it  the 
finest  instrument  extant  for  stage 
or  parlor  use.  Price  list  mailed,  free. 

LYON  &  HEALY,  CHICAGO. 


SAVEMOJfET.  Before  you  buy  Typ  T Sr- 

BICYCLE  or  IwRirER 

Send  to  A.  W.  GUMP  &  CO.,  Dayton,  Ohio,  for  prices.  New 
Bicycles  at  reduced  prices  and  400  second-hand  ones.  Difficult 
repairing.    Bicycles,  Guns  and  Type  Writers  taken  in  exchange. 


CRIPPLES 

and  invalids  find  FAIRY  Tricycles  the 
most  practical.  IJest  for  ladies  and  girls. 
Satisfaction  gitarantecd.  Athletic  Goods 
and  BICYCLES  at  retail,  at  lowest  prices. 
Address  FAY  MFG.  CO.  Elyria,  O. 


\  stf-MMR 


GQRMUIJtf  6 

JEFFERY  NWS  CQ 

MJ  KTHCKUj! 

CHICAGO®    ©BOSTON 
OrTALOGue 


.SENT  FREE 


and  The  "Shui  Sin  Fan"  or  "Water  Fairy 
Flower,"  as  it  is  sometimes  called  by  the 
Celestials,  is  a  bulb,  bearing  in  the  greatest 
abundance  silvery  white  flowers  with  a 
bright  golden  yellow  cup  in  the  centre  of 
each.  They  are  of  entrancing  beauty  and 
emit  a  delicious  perfume.  It  is  grown  by 
the  Chinese  to  herald  the  coming  of  their 
New  Year,  and  as  a  symbol  of  good  luck. 
While  the  bulb  can  bo  grown  in  a  pot, 
the  most  novel  and  beautiful  way  is  to  grow 
it  in  a  shallow  bowl  of  water  with  enough 
pebbles  to  prevent  it  from  toppling  over 
when  the  immense  spikes  of  flowers,  are  de- 
veloped. The  short  time  required  to  bring 
the  bu  lbs  into  full  bloom— 4  to  6  weeks  after 
planting— and  the  fact  that  ft  can  be  grown 
everywhere  and  by  anybody,  is  certain  to 
secure  a  permanent  popularity  for  the 
"Sacred  Lily." 

Large  bulbs  of  the  true  sort  direct 
to  us  irom  China,  -we  offer  for  26  cents 
each,  $2.56  per  dozen.   Free  by  Mail. 

A  dozen  bulba,  planted  en*  a  -week,  will  gist  a 
lupl'lf  of  flower*  all  Winter. 


HOUSEand  GARDEN  I, 

Collectionof  Bulbs  li 


A  carefully  chosen  Assortment  of  Bulba,  equally  ad. 
apteil  for  parlor  or  sitting  room  culture,  or  for  planting 
in  the  open  ground.  This  Is  not  only  the  cheapest 
collection  ever  offered,  but  the 'most  satisfactory,*  th« 
varieties  selected  are  certain  to  produce  a  lavish  pro* 
fusion  of  both  bloom  and  fragrance.     It  contains.- — 

8 Hyacinths ;  6  Tulips;  4  Narcissus;  6  Crocus;  3 
California  Butterfly  Tulips  ;  3  (Jlory  of  the  Snow  ;  S 
Snowdrops;  i  Heur  de  lis;  I  Bermuda  Easter  Lily. 
35  Bulba  in  all.  Free  by  Mall  for  $1.00;  or  with  9 
Chinese  Site  red  Lily,  $1.25. 

A  new  treatise,  Henderson's  Bulb  Culture,  (24 
pages)  is  sent  gralit  to  all  buyers  of  the  full  $1.25 
collection-.   To  others  on  receipt  bftho  price,  85  cent*. 


Our  Autumn  Catalogue  of  Bulbs,  Plants  and  Seeds,  the  handsomest  we 
have  ever  issued,  mailed  free  on  application*  - 


I  PETER  HENDERSON&COm^X^M ; 


W.iJIlJ.     JI.MJII    M-M-W     lil     .     .      »       I      t     *      I     M     M      II 

LOVELY  ^.f— 

Winter  Flowers.   —  ™ 

SCILiLiA  CLilTSI,  a  grand  winter  flower  producing  enormous 
clusters  of  bloom  two  to  three  feet  in  circumference.     They  are  of 

lovely  light  and  dark  blue  colors  and  borne  in  such  marvelous  clus-        fM(«§^td!|»^y     ' 
ters  that  it  makes  a  plant  of  wonderful  and  striking  beauty.     The  ' '<    i;  ' 

bulbs  are  very  large  and  strong,  and  should  be  planted  in  a  five  or 
six  inch  pot  and  are  absolutely  sure  to  bloom  freely  during  winter,  i 

and  the  great  heads  of  bloom  keep  perfect  for  weeks.  Freezing 
does  not  harm  it,  and  bulbs  can  also  be  planted  in  the  garden  this 
fall  for  blooming  in  early  spring  like  Tulips.     Try  it,  either  for  the  ^§HMM 

house  or  garden.     It  is  sure  to  bloom  and  create  a  sensation,  there  JPIh&% 

being  nothing  among  winter  flowers  which  will  so  astonish  and 
please  all  beholders.  Price  of  extra  large  Bulbs,  sent  at  once  by 
mail,  post-oaid,  20  cents  each;  3  for  50  cents;  7  for  SI. 00.  Also  m  B^^STv    u 

15  Double  and  Single  Tulips,  mixed 50c.  rak         %  "*2||i 

6  Double  and  Single  Hyacinths,  mixed 50c.  Hr         M  w     \1MPM 

5  Named  Lilies,  including  Bermuda  Easter  Lily 50c. 

25  Crocus,  fine  mixed  sorts    25c. 

Our  "Jewel"  Collection,  25  L.ovely  Winter  Bloom- 
ing Bulbs,  all  named,  for  only  50c.  post-paid. 
0  DT  P I  A  I       DEL*  CD        For  only  $2.  oo  we  will  mail  every-     li 
OrC  UIM  L     U  I  r  L  li  •      thing  offered— Scilla,  Tulips,  Hya- 
cinths, Lilies,  Crocus  and  Jewel  Collection,  in  all  77  Elegant  Bulbs. 

PATAIIIPIIC    CDCC       0ur  Large  Illustrated  Catalogue 

bMIMLUuUL  friLL,   of  Fal1  Bu.,bs  and  plants  is now 

ready  and  will  be  sent  free  to  all  who  ask  for  it.    We  offer  the  finest  w  W  Mm  '.     ^K 

stock  of  Hyacinths,  Tulips,  Crocus,  Narcissus,  Lilies,  Ixias,  Free-  ^V  m%  |    ■▼y^*v     1 

sias,  Alliums,  Oxalis  and  other  bulbs  for  winter  and  early  spring  ^^4f  1^^^  ^^ 

blooming.    Also  hardy  plants,  and  rare  new  plants  for  winter  bloom-  0|V[^0  .^-^Se 

ing.      IL^F3  Try  our    winter-blooming    Orange,    Morning    Glories,  \^J  ^^"^  C^GF,,,, 

Black  Calla,  Orchid,  etc.     We  also  offer  many  new  and  rare  fruits.  \jSwm& 

Write  at  once ;  these  offers  may  not  appear  again.     Address  W&WJi 

JOHN  LEWIS  CHILDS,  FLORAL  PARK,  Quee 

Oct.  '90. 


ns  Co.  N.  Y, 


If  You  Ride  a  Horse  or  Bicycle, 

Use  the  Ready  Riding  Straps  to  hold  yoUr  trousers  down.    Worn 


The  trousers  hang  naturally  and  cannot  be  injured  by  the  wheel  or  chain 
Ask  the  dealers,  or  send  50  cents  (stamps  taken)  to 

THE  CARTER-SMITH  CO.  520  Hamilton  Building,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


on    inner 
the    foot, 
be  seen, 
shoe. 


side    of 
Cannot 
Fits  any 


I  FRANK  MILLER'S 


■# 


HARNESS 

DRESSING 

has  been  the  standard  among  horsemen  and 
owners  of  fine  harness  for  over  three  genera- 
tions and  is  to  day  more  popular  than  ever. 
Owners  of  harness  cannot  afford  to  use  any- 
other  dressing,  for  it  not  only  gives  a  new  and 
stylish  finish  to  your  harness,  but,  being  a 
leather  preservative,  makes  it  wear  twice  as 
long.  Instruct  your  coachmen  or  stablemen 
to  use  only  FRANK  MILLER'S 
HARNESS  DRESSING,  and  see 
that  he  does  it.  The  effect  upon  your  har- 
ness will  show  at  once.    All  Dealers  Sell  It. 


We  are  offering  our  fine 
and  elegant 

Backboards  and  Surreys 

(hung  on  our  patent  Half- 
Elliptic  Spring), 
PARK  PHAETONS, 
Buggies,  Phaetons,  Road  Wagons,    Fine   Portland 
Cutters,   Two-Seated  Russian  Sleighs, 
At  very  low  prices.     Write  for  catalogue. 

,  „     ..      ~       r  Waterloo  Wagon  Co.  L't'd, 

Mention  The  Century.  Waterloo,  N.  Y. 


^SBureauofAdvertising 

Lists  of  first-class  Daily  and° 
Weekly  Papers  sent  to  any  part 
°f  the  world.  Estimates  free. 
150  Nassau  St.,  New   York. 


RFQT  Material,  Make  and  Trimmings.  Trade-mark,  "KING 
DCO  I  PERFECT  FITTING  TROUSERS,"  on  waist-band  every 
pair.  Price  $5  to  $10.     If  your  clothier  don't  keep,  write 

King  &  Webber,  Makers,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 


The  BEST  on  Wheels.  "Handy  "  Wagons. 
Buggies,  Surreys,  Spindles.  Buckboards,  Con- 
cords, Phaetons,  Cabriolets,  Two  Wheelers,  Road 
(Jarts.etc.  52-page  catalogue  and  circular," How 
to  purchase  direct  from  the  manufacturers,"  FREE. 

Dn AU  L t Y  Nm  fi  (1     14  Warren  St.,  f5ew*  York. 
UllflUkLI  Ul  UUl  96*08  8»dburj  St. Boston. 


The  only  concern  in  the  world  making  and  dealing  in  nothing  but 


EQUESTRIAN    OUTFITS. 

Makers  of  the 

Celebrated  Whitman  Saddles, 

Importers  of  ENGLISH,  GERMAN  AND  FRENCH 

Park,  Hunting,  Exercising  and  Racing  Saddles, 

Bridles;  Bits,  Leggings,  Spurs,  Stirrups,  Saddle  Cloths,  etc. 

Over  250  styles  constantly  on  hand.  Illustrated  catalogues  free. 

WHITMAN    SADDLE    COMPANY, 

IV©.  118  Chambers  Street,  New  York  City,  V.  S.  A. 


Holstein-Friesian  Cattle. 


DO  YOU  WANT  THE  BEST? 

Then  send  for  a  catalogue  of  the  only- 
herd  in  which  IOO  Cows  have  aver- 
aged 19  lbs.  and  18  have  averaged  24 
lbs.  of  butter  per  week.  In  which  96 
Cows  have  averaged  16,019  lbs.  of 
milk  per  year. 

HORSES. 

Clydesdale,  Percheron,  French  Coach, 
American-bred   Coach,  Standard-bred 
Trotters  of  the  best  and  most  Popular 
Breeding. 
Also  Berkshire  and  Cheshire  Swine. 

Separate  Catalogues  of  Horses  and  Cattle.  Prices 
low  for  high  quality  of  stock.  (In  writing  mention 
The  Century.) 

SMITHS,  POWELL  &  LAMB, 

Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

YOU  WANT  "THE  TOWER  YOU 
WONT  HATE  TO  CLIMB,  AND 
THE  WIND-BULL  THAT  RCNS 
WHEN  ALL  OTHERS  STAND 
STILL,"  send  for  our  printed  mat- 
ter showing  every  conceivable 
phase  of   wind-mill   work.     Our 

Everlasting  Steel  Wheel 

(work  considered)  costs  only  one* 

half  what  a  wooden  one  does, while  t 
the  Tilting  Tower  is  not  expensive. 

AERMOTOR  CO. 

110  and  112  S.  Jefferson  Street, 
Chicago,  III..  U.  S.  A. 


U.  GOOD  HEALTH 

AT  by  the  "NEW  METHOD," 

N  Chronic  diseases  of  women  or  men  cured 

Al        without   drugs.      Home    treatment.      Not   a 
#        "  mind  cure  "  but  a  scientific  system.    Better 
and  cheaper  than  the  "Hall  System."    You  must  investi- 
gate this.    Send  stamp  for  health  pamphlet. 

HEALTH  SUPPLIES  CO.,  7 1 0  Broadway,  N.Y, 


SUrtDnrUAIJn  Thoroughly  Taught 
fll/ll  I  n#%MI^  BY  MAIL,  or  personally. 
ITUATIONS  PEOOURED  all  pupils  when  competent. 
TENOGRAPHERS  furnished  business  men  without 
charge  for  my  services.  Correspondence  solicited. 
Send  for  circ's  to  W.  G.  CHAFFEE,  Oswego,  N.  Y. 

Barnes'  Foot-Power  Machinery. 

Workers  of  Wood  or  Metal, 

Withoutsteam  power,  using  outfits  of  these  Machines, 
can  bid  lower,  and  save  more  money  from  their  jobs,1 
than  by  any  other  means  fordoing  their  work.  Also  for 

Industrial  Schools  or  Home  Training. 

With  them  boys  can  acquire  journeymen's  trades 
before  they  "go  for  themselves."      Price-List  Free. 

W.  F.  &  JOHN  BARNES  CO. 

No.  596  Ruby  Street,  Rockford,  111. 


"SHADELAND'VxSI 

Pure  Bred  Live  Stock 

ESTABLISHMENT 

the    WORLD. 


French.  Coachers, 
Cleveland.  Bays, 
Hackneys, 
Clydesdales, 
Percherons, 
French  Drafts, 
English  Shires, 
Belgian.  Drafts, 
Snftbllr  Horses, 


in 


NEW  IMPOKTATIONS 

arriving  from  time  to  time.     Rare 
individual  excellence  and 
%  choicest  breeding. 

Breeders  and  Importers  of 

Standard  Bred  Trotters, 
Carriage  Horses, 
Saddle  Horses, 
"Welsh.  Ponies, 
Iceland  Ponies, 
Shetland  Ponies, 
Holstein-Priesian 
Cattle, 
Devon.  Cattle, 


Also,  Dealers  in  Peal  Estate. 

Our  customers  have  the  advantage  of  our  many  years'  ex- 
perience  in  breeding  and  importing;  superior  quality; 
large  variety  and  immense  collections ;  opportunity 
of  comparing  different  breeds ;  and  low  prices,  because 
of  our  unequaled  facilities,  extent  of  business  and  low 
rates  of  transportation. 

No  other  ESTABLISHMENT  in  the  WORLD  offers 
such  advantages  to  the  PURCHASER. 

PRICES  LOW  !  TEEMS  EASY  !  Visitors  welcome. 
Correspondence  solicited.    Circulars  free. 

POWELL   BROS. 
Sliadeland,  Crawford  Co.  Pa. 

When  you  write,  mention  The  Century. 


HEADQUARTERS  for  CHOICE  PONIES. 


For  SHETLAND  PONIES, 

WELSH   PONIES, 

ICELAND    PONIES. 

BOYS'  and  GIRLS'  SADDLES  and  BRIDLES.    PONY 

HARNESS,    SINGLE    and    DOUBLE.      CARTS, 

CUTTERS  and  MINIATURE  VEHICLES 

IN  GREAT   VARIETY. 

Address 


Maquoketa,  Iowa, 

IMPORTER    AND    BREEDER. 

The   Largest  and  Finest   Herd  of  Registered  Sliet- 
lands  in  America. 

Write  for  what  you  want,  inclosing  stamp  for  Price-List. 


What  is 


Castoria  is  Dr.  Samuel  Pitcher's  prescription  for  Infants 
and  Children.  It  contains  neither  Opium,  Morphine,  nor 
other  Narcotic  substance.  It  is  a  harmless  substitute  for 
Paregoric,  Drops,  Infant  Syrups,  and  Castor  Oil.  It  is 
Pleasant.  Its  guarantee  is  thirty  years'  use  by  Millions 
of  Mothers.  Castoria  kills  Worms.  Castoria  is  the  Chil- 
dren's Panacea  — the  Mother's  Friend. 


Castoria. 

Castoria  cures  Colic,  Constipation, 
Sour  Stomach,  Diarrhoea,  Eructation, 
Gives  healthy  sleep  and  promotes  di- 
gestion, 
Without  injurious  medication. 


Castoria 

"  Castoria  is  so  well  adapted  to 
children  that  I  recommend  it  as  su- 
perior to  any  prescription  known  to 
me."        H.  A.  ARCHER,  M.  D., 

Ill  So.  Oxford  Stij  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


The  Centaur  Company,  77  Murray  Street,  N.  Y. 

ALLCOCKS 

POROUS       PLASTERS. 

^ . », 

Senator  James  F.   Pierce,   of  New- York,  writes : 

For  the  past  two  years  I  have  suffered  very  much  from  an  aggravated  form  of  nervous 
dyspepsia.  I  have  resorted  to  various  remedial  agents,  deriving  but  little  benefit.  A  few- 
months  since  a  friend  of  mine  suggested  the  trial  of  AUcock?$  Porous  JPlasters,  Follow- 
ing the  suggestion,  I  have  been  using  the  same  with  the  happiest  effects.  To  those  similarly 
afflicted  let  me  suggest  the  manner  of  their  use.  I  place  one  over  my  stomach,  one  over  the 
hepatic  region  and  one  on  my  back.  The  effect  was  excellent,  and  from  the  day  I  commenced 
their  use  I  have  been  slowly  but  surely  improving,  and  I  am  quite  confident  that  by  their 
continuance,  with  careful  regimen,  I  shall  again  be  restored  to  my  accustomed  health." 


Beware  of  imitations,  and  do  not  be  deceived  by  misrepresentation. 
Ask  for  ALLCOCK'S,  and  let  no  solicitation  or  explanation  induce  you 
to  accept  a  substitute. 


"  We  DO  use  it,  and  have  used  quantities  of  it  in  our 
family  for  the  past  io,  20,  30,  40,  50  years.  We  know 
there  is  nothing  so  good  for  its  purpose." 

"But  we  wish  you  to  use  more  of  it,  which  we  think  you 
could  do  much  to  your  added  comfort  and  advantage,  and 
somewhat  to  ours.     Though  not  without  a  bottle  of  POND'S 
EXTRACT  in  the  house  since  you  can  remember,  have  you  ever  read 
the  book  which  surrounds  each  bottle,  and  the  list  of  disorders  on 
the  wrapper,  and  noted  how  many  ailments  from  which  you  may  have 
suffered,  or  have  attempted  to  cure  with  other  remedies  you  might  just  as 
well  have  cured  with  your  ever-handy  bottle  of  POND'S  EXTRACT?    You 
use  it  for  some  purposes,  your  neighbor  for  others,  and  both  are  equally  de- 
lighted with  the  results.    Why  not  use  it  as  much  as  you  can?" 


"  We  have  read  that  little  yellow  book  a 
dozen  times,  and  not  only  use  POND'S  EX- 
TRACT for  everything  you  mention  with 
which  this  family  is  ever  afflicted,  but  have 
a  dozen  uses  for  it  which  you  nowhere  refer 
to,  not  to  mention  countless  imagined  ills  of 
the  children,  when  it  is  always  called  for.  It 
is  also  frequently  used  on  dolls  with  invari- 
able success,  though  you  nowhere  so  recom- 
mend it." 


CD 


refuse  substitutes' 
be  sure  that  bottle 
withBUFFwrapperI 

LOOKS  LIKE THIS^fff 

MANUFACTURED  ONLY  BY  WH|^wnoi5«««« 

POND'S  DCTRACTCOMRW.Kg™^ 

76fifthaye..ne:wyork.     ! 


Hear !        Hear ! 

IF  YOU    CANT   HEAR 

YOU    SHOULD    USE   THE 

INVISIBLE    SOUND    DISOS, 

Which  are  guaranteed  to  help  a  larger  percentage  of  deafness  than  all  similar 
devices  combined.  The  ONLY  DEVICE  EVER  INVENTED  FOR  DEAF- 
NESS WHICH  HAS  RECEIVED  THE  PRAISE  OF  EVERY  PHYSI- 
CIAN WHO  HAS  EXAMINED  THEM,  and  which  has  been  recommended 
by  the  Standard  Medical  Journals  throughout  the  civilized  world.  They  are 
positively  invisible  while  being  worn,  and  may  be  worn  months  without  removal. 
Sold  only  by  H.  A.  WALES,  Bridgeport,  Conn. 


A  VALUABLE  AND  DOUBLY  USEFUL  LITTLE  INSTRUMENT  FOR  LADIES. 

"DUPLEX"  ELECTRO-MAGNETIC  CURLER  and  CRIMPER. 

This  is  the  most  perfect,  convenient,  useful  and  effective  little  toilet  article  ever  invented.  It  combines  a  Coinb-curler  of 
superior  finish  with  an  improved  Tong  Crimper,  and  both  parts  being  Electro-Magnetic  it  produces  wonderfully  pleasing 
and  fashionable  results.  With  its  aid  the  hair  cau  be  fixed  in  any  desired  style,  and  when  so  fixed  with  this  little  instru- 
ment it  retains  the  effect  much  longer  and  is  not  even  affected  by  damp  air.    Once  tried  always  used. 

Price,  50C.  guaranteed.       ^^  OF  ALL  DEALERS. 


This  cut  is  one-half  size. 
PATENTED. 

It  does  not  break  off  or  ruin  the  hair  like  most  Curlers  and  Crimpers,  never  fails  in  operation,  and  is  guaranteed  to  give 
satisfaction.  MONEY    REFUNDED    IF    NOT    AS    REPRESENTED. 

It  is  for  sale  by  the  leading  drug,  dry  and  faucy  goods  trade  generally,  but  if  not  obtainable  in  your  vicinity  we  will  mail 
it  to  any  address,  post-paid,  guaranteeing  safe  delivery,  on  receipt  of  50c,  or  five  for  $2.00.  Remit  by  draft,  express  or  post- 
office  money  order,  or  currency  in  registered  letter  payable  to  THE  A.  BRIDGMAN  CO.,  373  Broadway,  New-York. 
Mention  The  Century.    Agents  wanted  for  Dr.  Bridgman's  Corsets,  Brushes,  Belts  and  Specialties. 


TORREY  RAZORS  and 

American  Razors  for  American  People.  ]j  XV  v^/Jl   O 


LEAD    THEM    ALL. 


The  TORREY  RAZORS   are  forged  from  the  finest 

steel  and  each  blade  critically  tested. 

The  TORREY  RAZOR  will  conquer  the  hardest  beard 

and   MAKE  SHAVING   A   LUXURY. 


Every  Razor  sold  under  a    Guar- 
antee to  Give  Satisfaction. 


S8*» 


The 

Sheffield 

(ENGLAND) 

Telegram 

says : 


"There  is  a  large  demand  for  the  finer 
grades  of  Razors  for  the  American  mar- 
ket which  OUR  MANUFACTURERS 
HAVE  FAILED  TO  SUPPLY.  This 
has  had  the  effect  of  Introducing,  very 
largely,  Razors  manufactured  by  the 
J.  R.  TORREY  RAZOR  COMPANY, 
of  Worcester,  Massachusetts,  an  Ameri- 
-  can  concern  that  Is  finding  much  favor." 


We  are  the  most  extensive  manufacturers  of 

RAZOR  STROPS  rntheworM. 

And  being  Razor  makers  also,  we  know  what  is 
required  to  set  a  fine  edge  to  a  Razor. 

When  a  man  once  uses   the   TORREY 

STROP,  he  invariably  recommends 

it    to    his    friends. 

We  GUARANTEE  THEM 

To  set  a  finer  edge  to  a  dull  Razor  or  Surgical 
Instrument   than   any  other  strop   in  the  world. 

If  not  to  be  had  of  your  dealer  DON'T  take  anything 
else,  but  send  for  Catalogue  A.  Tells  how  to 
sharpen  a    Razor. 

J.  R.  Torrey  Razor  Co., 

WORCESTER,    MASS. 


You  may  make  the  best  goods  in  the  world,  but  if  the  style  of 
your  advertising  is  slovenly  you  will  find  it  hard  to  make 
people    believe    it. 

There  is  nothing  so  rich  and  dignified  as  brass.     Etched  brass 
show-cards  and  signs  are  unique.     Do  not  have  to  be  cleaned. 
Are  not  fragile  like  glass,  and  are  not  so  expensive  as  you  might 
imagine.     An  elegant  sample  sent  on  receipt  of  one  dollar. 
The  Rutledge  Etched  Brass, 

F.  B.  Patterson,  Selling  Agent,  177  Broadway,  New-York. 


THE  AMERICAN  MECHANIC  IS 


the  product  of  good  common  schools,  excellent 
newspapers  and  intense  ambition. 
His  foreign  brother  is  a  machine,  of  little  education,  and  snubbed  by  the  educated  classes  as  if  he  were  a  TV/TTTT  TT* 
The  free-trader  says  that  the  proper  way  to  improve  the  American  mechanic  is  to  put  him  on  the  level  of  the  ^^  XTX  \J  I.I  Fl, 
foreign,  and  that  the  eleventh  commandment  is  "  buy  cheap."  Are  you  not  tired  of  "  cheap  "  stuff,  whether  in  tariff  talk  or  in  trade  ?  Our 
ambition  is  to  furnish  you  good  goods  at  as  low  prices  as  they  can  be  made  and  still  be  Good.  We  don't  offer  the  dealer  a  big  profit  to  sell 
you  our  goods;  we  come  to  you  direct,  and  offer  you  goods  at  bottom  factory  prices.  The  MAHER  &  GKOSH  cutlery  is  hand- 
forged,  from  razor-steel,  every  blade  tested  severely,  and  warranted.     Look  at 

Knife  shown  here;  cut  is  exact  size;  price  is  65c; 
blades  equal  any  $2  razor.  Our  price  for  awhile 
is  48c. ;  5  for  $2,  post-paid.  Lady's  2-blade  pearl, 
35c.  ;  7-inch  Steel  Shears,  60c. ; 
knife  shown  here  and  shears,  $1, 
post-paid.  Barber's  hollow-ground 
razor,  $1.25.  Best  strop  ever  made, 
50c.     Send  for  free  list. 

MAHER  &GROSH, 

74  Summit  St.  Toledo,  Ohio. 


n  1 1 D   M  C  \A/  Dfin  Y  "  Notes  on  the  Cultivation  of  Dutch  and  Cape  Bulbs,  Tubers,  Hoots,  and  Plants," 
U  U  n   II L  W   DUU  l\  i)y  ant.  ROOZEN  &  SON.   A  valuable  work  of  112  pages.    Price  40  cents  by  mail. 

ROOZEN'S  SPECIAL  FALL  COLLECTION.    475  Bulbs  for  $3.75. 

Hyacinths,  Tulips,  Crocuses,  Lilies,  Narcissus,  Etc. 

We  will  deliver  at  Express  offices  in  New-  York  City  and  Toronto  the  following  selected  bulbs  for  outdoor 
planting  from  the  famous  farms  of  Ant.  Roozen  &  Son,  Overveen  (near  Haarlem),  Holland. 


18  Hyacinths,  various  colors  mixed. 
25  Single  Tulips,  various  colors  mixed. 
24  Double  Tulips,  various  colors  mixed. 
18  Scarlet  Due  van  Thol,  dazzling  scarlet. 
18  Polyanthus  Narcissus,  assorted  colors. 
15  Double  and  Single  Narcissus,  assorted  colors 
18  Pheasant's  Eye  Narcissus,  fine  bedder. 
75  Large  Golden  Yellow  Crocus. 


50  Blue  Crocus,  of  shades. 

50  White  Crocus,  of  shades. 

50  Variegated  Crocus,  of  shades. 

24  Snowdrops  (Oalanthus  nivalis). 

36  Spanish  Iris,  assorted  colors. 

12  Scilla  Siberica,  rich  blue. 

24  Grape  Hyacinths,  dark  sky-blue. 

18  Triteleia  Uniflora  (Spring  Star  flower). 


Pamphlet  on  Cultivation  free  with  each  order.    Address  the  Sole  Agent  for  U.  S.  and  Can., 

J.  TER  KUILE,  33  Broadway,  New-York. 

&T  All  the  Bulbs  are  of  the  largest  size  and  will  bloom  next  spring.  Mention  The  Century. 


°5  A 
U.9 
u.  < 
O  * 
o  to 


=>     a=i 


3. 

This  is  the  Clasp,  wherever  found. 
That  holds  the  Roll  on  which  is  wound 
The  Braid  that  is  known  the  world  around. 


03  O 

aj  O 
Po5 


«=>    «=J 


A  MONTHLY  DEVOTED  TO 

Lsadie^  Faoey  V/or4^ 

of  every  description.  It  is  the  only  illustrated  practical 
paper  published  on  Embroidery,  Knitting,  Crochet- 
ing, Paikting  and  Home  Decoration.  The  notes  and 
queries  and  correspondence  departments  are  alone 
worth  the  subscription  price.  Perforated  Patterns  of 
designs  published  are  furnished  at  mere  cost  ofproduction. 


4  Months^&IOc. 

Colored    Studies  of  the  designs  for  painting  are 
offered  at  reduced  prices. 

Dev/  eppijeilla  gtampmf  Oatfit 

Contains   only  useful  and  artistic  new  Patterns. 
The    Illustrated   Instruction   Book  gives    treat- 
ment for  each  pattern. 
The  Best  Outfit  ever  offered. 

TERMS  :    Subscription  price,  50c.  per  year.     Two 
yearly  Subscribers  secure  the  outfit,  or  one  name 
with  25c. ;  2  subscriptions  and  2  outfits  for  $1.25. 
Sample  copies  with  inducements  to  club  raisers,  free. 

PRISCILLA  PUBLISHING  CO., 

Ltnn,  Mass 


ESTERBROOK'S   PENS. 

Standard  and  superior  quality.    Leading  Nos.  048, 14, 130, 135,  239,  313, 333.    All  Stationers  have  them. 
THE  ESTERBROOK  STEEL  PEN  CO.,  26  John  Street,  New  York. 


The  Best  Dollar  Monthly  in  the  World,  Stanley  Wood,  Editor,  is 

THE   GREAT    DIVIDE. 

Rocky  Mountain  Gems  Given  Free  as  a  Premium  to  New  Subscribers. 
Is  a  superbly  illustrated  monthly  journal  containing  articles  every  month  on  Rocky  Mountain  scenery,  illustrating  and  describing  its 
canons,  lakes,  valleys,  natural  parks,  mountain  peaks,  waterfalls,  cascades,  trails,  minerals,  mines,  crystals,  relics,  cliff  dwellings  Indians 
and  customs,  sights  above  the  clouds,  summer  and  winter  resorts,  haunts  of  fish  and  game,  natural  wonders,  caves,  grotesque  and  marvel- 
ous works  of  nature,  burning  rock,  mineral  springs,  climate,  resources,  birds  and  animals,  wild  flowers  and  hosts  of  other  interesting 
things.  Brimful  of  fresh,  original  and  spicy  reading  every  month.  Different  from  any  other  publication  in  the  world.  Subscription  only 
$1.00  per  year,  3  months  trial  35  cents.  This  journal  recommends  itself.  Send  for  a  sample  copy,  which  is  free,  if  you  say  where  you 
saw  this  announcement.  Address  THE   GREAT  DIVIDE,  Denver,  Colorado. 

QUEEN'S  Vest  Pocket  Opera  and Fie/dG/aas 

Is  the  most  powerful  glass  for  its  size  ever  made.  Can  be  used  to  advantage  for  marine  views, 
to  make  out  game,  in  Cavalry  service,  and  at  the  same  time  is  a  perfect  little  opera  glass.  Ad- 
justable for  pupil  width,  and  of  absolutely  the  best  optical  and  mechanical  construction.  Meas- 
ures in  case  4  in.  long  by  2^  in.  wide  and  1  in.  thick.  Sent  on  receipt  of  $1  8.00  an(*  return- 
able if  not  satisfactory.     Catalogue  of  Opera,  Field,  Marine  and  Spy  Glasses  and  Binocular 

Telescopes,  FREE.  QUEEN  &  CO.,  924  Chestnut  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


YES!  OR  NO.  ! 


OES  or  does  it  not  pay  to  advertise  ?     Yes,  if  well  done  in  good 
papers.     No,  if  not  well  done,  and  not  inserted  in  good  papers. 

The  Boston  Herald  publishes  more  columns  of  advertise- 
ments  than   any   other   New   England   paper,    and    pays    the 
advertiser    well. 


DO    NOT  STAMMER. 

Miss  Alice  Cary,  Moorhead,  Minn.,  writes:  "I  was  a 
stammerer  thirty  years,  but  now  speak  with  ease  and 
fluency."     Send  for  54-page  pamphlet  to 

E.  S.  JOHNSTON'S  INSTITUTE, 

N.  E.  Corner  nth  and  Spring  Garden    Streets, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

SMITH  &  ANGELL'S 


The 


Best, 


BLACK  HOSIERY. 


Statuary 

C.  Hennecke  Co., 


Classical    and  Modern 

2,000  Designs,  rnrr 
Pamphlet,    rHtt 

Milwaukee,  Wis. 


and  207  Wabash  Avenue.  CHICAGO. 


PORTABLE    BATHS. 

Best  ever  Known.  Wholesale  and  Retail. 

Agents  Wanted  Everywhere. 
Send  for  Circulars. 

E.  J,  KNOWLTON, 

Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 


QHORT-HAND 


I  Send  for  Catalog 
m_.  p"  «o=  *  |S*|  -n-uf  Books  and  helps 
^P&LbP  TAUGH  B  forself-instruction 
by  BENN  PITMAN  and  JEROME  B.  HOWARD,  to 

THE   PHONOGRAPHIC   INSTITUTE,   CINCINNATI,    OHIO. 


POULTRY  FOR  PROFIT.  We  will  send  FARM-POILTRY,  the  best  poul- 
-*-  try  Magazine,  six  months  for  25  cts. ;  or  for  15  cts.  if  you  will 
mention  The  Century.     1.  g.  JOHNSON  &  CO.  Box  2118,  Boston,  Mass. 

IfPETP    RftmfQby    WEST'S  New  Original 
■WKBJT   OUy  IV O  Entry  Ledger.    A  Ledfer  in    • 
place  ot  a  full  set  of  books.   Convenient  forms  for  all  entries.    Easily  ap- 
plied, simple,  saves  time.     West's  Self-proving  Balance  locates  every 
error.  _  Send  three  two-cent  stamps  for  illustrated  16-page  pamphlet 

WOLCOTT  &  WEST,  SYRACUSE,  N.  Y. 


FREE 


Sample  Dr.  X.  STONE'S  BRONCHIAL  WAFERS. 
Best  Remedy  for  Throat  and  Lungs.  AGENTS 
Wanted.    STONE  MEDICINE  CO.  Ouincy,  111. 


Violin  Outfits! 


sent  to  any  part  of  the 
United  States  on  1  to  3 
jdays'  trial  before  buy- 
ing. 5  CENTS  brings 

lustrated  lOO-pagre  Catalogue  of  Musical  instruments  Mail 
Orders  a  specialty.  C.W.STORY,  38  Central St.  BoBton, Mass. 


1f\f%     wul  bring  you  a  packet  of  rare  coins  or  obsolete  stamps 
\^v«  and  mv  48  pp.  catalogue  of  curios,  etc. 

W.  F.  GREANY,  827  Brannan  St.  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


Nicholson  s  Patented  Artificial  Ear  Drums  help  Deafness  and 
Noises  in  the  Head  in  all  stages.  80-page  Illustrated  Book,  with 
full  description,  free.  Address  J.  H.  Nichols®n,  177  Macdougall 
Street,  New- York. 


*£slti  ^BARKER  B  RAN  D 

TRADE 

mJrp  RDAMn  v  ABSOLUTELY  BEST 

BARKER  BRAND.  |n  SHAPE  FINISH  &WEARtpv  them- 


^J.W>1     INOESTRUCTfiBtE.  *%>^i£^  [""IVATIOI^ 


S  T  A  M  M  E  R  I  N  G 


Cured.  Wonderful  success  in  every  case,  Send  for  cir- 
cular. PROF.  GEO.  S.  MILLIARD,  the  well- 
known  Instructor  in  Elocution,  235  W.  34th  St. ,  New  York. 


DEAF 


NESS    AND    HEAD    NOISES 

OVERCOME  by  Peck's  Pat.  INVIS- 
IBLE Tubular  Ear  Cushions  in  all  cases  where 
the  auditory  nerves  are  not  paralyzed.  Successful  in  many  cases  cro- 
nounced  incurable.  Comfortable,  self-adjusting.  Sold  onlv  by  F.  HISCOX 
853  Broadway,  New-York.    Call  or  write  for  book  of  proofs  FREE 


S NORTH  AftlR  Celebrated  Pernin  System;  no  Shading;  no 
BHB  8  ""™IU>»  Position.  Trial  Lesson  and  circulars  free. 
Writt 


'Position. 

PERNIN  SHORTHAND 


INSTITUTE.    Detroit. 


@EATTiP?e.Metropolis  of  WASHINGTON. 
AfcMI  ■  t-t  Send  stamp  for  "Travels   of   Brother 

W Jonathan"  to  Eshelman,  Llewellyn  &  Co.,  Seattle,  Wash. 


OLD  COINS.     I  BUY 

prices.     Write  for  list;  may  be  worth  hundreds  of  dollars  to  you- 
enclose  stamp.     W.  E.  SKINNER,  P.  0.  Box  3046,  Boston,  Mass'. 


all  dates  prior  to 
Highest 


STAMPS. 


SYMPHONION 

(Swiss  Music  Box,) 

Plays  1000  Tunes. 

Ilkst.  Price  List  FEEE. 
FRED.    H.   SANDER, 

IMPOUTEit, 

102  High  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 

Send  for  monthly  price-list. 

E.  T.  Parker,  Bethlehem,  Pa. 


Cheap 
Printing 


Do  it  yourself.  Card  press 
$3.  Circular  press  ^.News- 
paper size  $44.  Everything 
easy,  printed  rules.  Send  2 
_  stamps  for  List  of  presses, 
type,  <tc,  to  factory.    KELSEY  &  CO.,  Meriden,  Conn. 


s 


END  for  free  Catalogue  of  Books  of  Amusements,  Speak- 
ers, Dialogues,  Gymnastics,  Calisthenics,  Fortune  Tellers, 
Dream  Books,  Debates,  Letter  Writers,  Etiquette, 
etc.     Dick  &  Fitzgerald,  18  Ann  Street,  New-York. 


TELEGEAPHY. 

Learners'  manual  of  complete  instructions,  with  description  of  instru- 
ments. How  ro  put  up  Telegraph  Lines,  Electric  Bells,  Batteries,  etc.  By 
mail /ret.    J.  H.  BUNNELL  &  CO.,  76  Cortlandt  St.,  New-York. 


HEADQUARTERS 

FOR    LADIES' 
FANCY    WORK. 


WE  HAVE  been  in  the  Fancy  Work  Business 
for  years,  and  make  it  a  point  to  keep  up  with  the 
times!    Send  your  full  address  and  one  2-cent  stamp  for 

Ingalls'  Illustrated  Catalogue 

of  Fancy  Work  Materials— Stamped  Goods -Lid a 
Clakkson's  Akt  Books  and  Colored  Studies  — 
Fancy  Work  Books  —  Stamping  Outfits,  etc. 
Address      J.  F.  IJVGAIiliS,  Lynn,  Mass. 


Dress  Reform  Garments, 


IN   ALL    STYLES. 

BATES  WAIST. 

(Substitute  for  Corsets.) 

Jersey  Knit  Union  Under- 
garments 

In  silk,  wool,  merino  and  gauze.     Per- 
fection of  fit,  finish  and  durability. 

C.   BATES  &  CO. 

47   Winter   Street,  Boston, 
67  W.  33d  Street,  New-York. 

Catalogue  sent  free. 


TREES 


Shrubs.    Roses,   Bulbs,  Hardy 

Plants.      The  Best  for  Fall 

Planting.  List  of  Specialties  and 

/   priced  Catalogue  on  application. 

FRED.  W.  KELSEY,  No.  145  Broadway,  New -York. 

££%,  THE  LIBRARY  OP 
AMERICAN  LITERATURE 

has  been  carefully  selected  by  E.  C.  Stedman  and 
E.  M.  Hutchinson  from  the  400,000  volumes  copy- 
righted.   Only  $3.00  per  month,  less  than  one  cent 
per  volume  per  day.    Send  for  sample  portraits. 
C.  L.  WEBSTER  &  CO.,  3  East  Uth  St.,N.  Y. 

THE    GREAT 
FORM     BOOK. 

Standard  in   social   and   business  life.     New 

edition,     1890.      For    prices,    ask    any  book 

agent,  or  write  DANES  &  CO.   103  State   St.   Chicago. 

Wanted,    lady  and    gentleman    canvassers    for    Manual    Parallel 
Bibles. 


HILL'S 


MANUAL 


Just  think 


of  it,  steel  cooking  utensils,  each  one 
stamped  out  of  a  solid  piece  of  steel. 
You  want  them  ?  Of  course  you  do, 
every  housekeeper  does.  Ask  for 
"NEVEfrBREAK"  Will  not  absorb 
grease,  will  not  crack,  scale,  or  break. 
Always  clean  and  new.  Write  for 
illustrated  circular. 
THE  BRONSON  SUPPLY  CO.,  Cleveland.  O. 


Surveying  i^  Engineering 

INSTRUMENTS. 

Transits,     Levels,     Compasses,    Chains, 
Tapes,  Drawing  Instruments,  Draw- 
ing   Paper,    Profile    and    Cross 
Section   Paper   Field   Books, 
Squares,  Triangles,  Etc. 

V  Catalogue   sent   on   application.  V 

L,  M.  PRINCE, 

148  W.  FOURTH  ST.,  CINCINNATI,  O. 


U    THE  NEW 

1890  METEOR. 
H  SCIOPTIC0N. 


Autumn  Planting. 

For  imperative  reasons  in  favor  of  Autumn 
planting  of  Deciduous  Trees  and  Shrubs  and 
Rhododendrons  and  for  Catalogues,  apply  to 

PARSONS    &    SONS    CO. 

(limited), 
FLUSHING,  NEW-YORK. 


Osgoodby's 

Phonetic 

Shorthand. 


FOR  SELF 
INSTRUCTION, 

Synopsis  for 
2  cent  stamp. 

W.  W.  OSGOODBY,  Publisher,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

TYPEWRITERS. 

Largest  like  establishment  in  the  world.  First-class  Second-hand 
Instruments  at  half  new  prices.  Unprejudiced  advice  given  on  all 
makes.  Machines  sold  on  monthly  payments.  Condition  and  title 
guaranteed.  Any  instrument  manufactured  shipped  privilege  to 
examine.  EXCHANGING  A  SPECIALTY.  Instruction  book 
and  packing  box  free.  Wholesale  prices  to  dealers.  Two  (20  pp. 
and  40  pp.)  illustrated  catalogues  Free. 

TYPEWRITER        ?  70  Broadway,  New-York. 
HEADQUARTERS,  3  144  La  Salle  Street,  Chicago. 


use 


mi 


INDELIBLE  INK. 


•  No  preparation  and  only  a 
common  pen  needed.  Estab- 
lished 50  Years.  Supe- 
Rec'd 


THE 
OLDEST 

Tiic 

_j_  -_ ,      rior  and  popular  for  decorative  work  on  "linen.    Rec'd 
oho  I.    Centennial  Medal  &,  Diploma.    Sold  everywhere. 

INTENDTQBUILD? 

OUR  ATLAS  of  SENSIBLE 
IiOW-COST    HOUSES 
With  NEW  DESIGNS 
or  1890  contains  a  large 
perspective   view  of  this 
house  and  80  others. 
It  shows  details  and 
floor   plans,  and 
gives  our  prices  for 
complete  working 
plans,detail  draw- 
ings,   and     speci- 
fications.   Price 
of  Atlas,  by  mail, 
$2.00.    Address 
National  Architects'  Union,  120  N.  7th  St.,  Fhilad'a,  Pa. 


TTje  ARMSTRONG 


BANNERS 


AND 


P^and7^      CATALOGUE  FREE. 

BAND  GOODS  MENTION  THIS  MAGAZINE 

E .  A.  ARMSTRONG ,  DciroitMteh 


SKILL   AND    TASTE. 

ANY  ONE  can  rush  into  print. 
To  advertise  is  a  pastime ; 
to  make  it  pay,  a  study. 

But  one  in  a  thousand  knows 
how.  That  one  has  n't  the  time  to 
attend  to  it. 

We  prepare  advertisements  with- 
out charge  —  that  is,  for  our  cus- 
tomers. 

Wanamaker,  Rogers,  Peet  &  Co. 
and  others,  pay  out  thousands  of 
dollars  every  year.  What  for  ? 
Why,  for  just  what  we  offer  to 
do  free. 

Merchants  do  not  understand 
the  situation.  It  costs  no  more  to 
employ  us  as  experts,  than  to  use 
that  class  of  agents  who  act  merely 
as  messengers. 

Your  business  differs  from  your 
neighbor's  ?  True.  Because  we 
recognize  this,  we  succeed.  We 
have  no  hobbies  —  we  make  each 
case  a  study.  We  want  only  high- 
class  business.  Anything  that  lacks 
downright  honesty  has  no  attrac- 
tion for  us.  Tell  the  truth  and  it 
will  stick.  The  plainer  the  story 
the  greater  the  adhesion. 

It  costs  nothing  to  talk  the 
matter  over  with  us,  and  only  two 
cents  to  write  to  us.  Our  adver- 
tising leaflets  will  be  sent  free  to 
responsible  advertisers. 

Perhaps  you  may  be  only  curi- 
ous. Curiosity  is  not  always  a  sin. 
It  leads  to  knowledge. 

Herbert  Booth   King  &  Brother, 

Advertising  Agents, 

202  Broadway,  New-York. 


Send  this  (The  Century)  advertisement  and  $2.00  direct  to  the 
publisher  (this  is  essential)  by  October  1,  and  you  will  receive 


THE  ART 
AMATEUR, 


FOR 

K 

H 


20 


MONTHS  (June,  '90,  to  Dec,  '90), 
BEAUTIFUL  COLOR  STUDIES  for  Oil, 
Water-Color  and  China  Painting-  (also 
yery  Suitable  for  Framing). 

These  consist  of  17  color  studies  of  Landscape,  Flower,  Figures, 
etc.  Among  them  are:  Roses  (16x22);  Climbing  Kittens  (31x9) 
panel;  Seated  Figure  (16x22);  Azaleas  (14x11);  2  bird  and  flower 
panels  (each  21x8);  Marguerites  (11x16);  River  Landscape 
(14x20);  Pansies  (11x16);  Arum  and  Scarlet  Lilies  (19^x12^); 
Moonlight  Marine;  Return  from  Market  —  figure — (11x14); 
Convolvuli  (10^x14)  ;  Marine  Sunset;  Daffodils  in  Basket  (11x14); 
and  extra:  Bertha  Maguire's  exquisite  study  of  Orchids,  which 
won  the  gold  medal  of  the  Royal   Botanical  Society  of  London. 

To  the  18  superb  plates  we  add  3  of  our  own 
selection — Landscape,  Flower  or  Figure,  as  may  be 
preferred.    You  also  get  for  your  $3.00: 

60  PAGES  OF  PRACTICAL  DESIGNS  in  Black  and 
White  for  China  Painting,  Oil,  Water-Color  and  Tapestry  Painting, 
Wood-Carving,  Brass  Hammering  and  Needlework,  and  over 

150  PAGES  (16x11)  OF  TEXT  full  of  direction,  suggestion 
and  description,  relating  to  Flower  Painting,  Marine  Painting, 
Portrait  Painting,  Still-Life  Painting,  Sketching  from  Nature,  Pen 
Drawing  for  Book  and  Magazine  Illustrating,  Etching, 

HOME  ADORNMENT  AND  ART  WORK. 

For  $4  you  get  12  months'  subscription;  with  32  color  studies; 
and  the  sumptuous  Orchid  study  free. 

For  S3  you  get  all  named  in  above  "special  offer";  or,  if  you 
prefer,  6  months'  continued  subscription,  beginning  any  month. 

For  25c.   you  get  a  specimen  copy  of  The  Art  Amateur, 

with  2  color  studies,  and  8  pages  supplementary  working  designs, 

or  China  Painting,  Carving,  Needlework,  etc.,  etc.;  and,  free,  a 

beautifully  illustrated  Catalogue  of  70  Color  Studies. 

MONTAGUE  MARKS,  Publisher, 

23  UNION  SOT  ARE,  NEW- YORK. 

Patent  Foot-Power  Machinery 

COMPLETE   OUTFITS. 

Wood  or  metal  workers  without  steam  power 
can  successfully  compete  with  the  large  shops, 
by     using     our     New     LABOR-SAVING 

Machinery,  latest  and  most  improved  for  prac- 
tical shop  use;  also  for  Industrial  Schools,  Home 
Training,  etc.     Catalogue  Free. 

Seneca  Falls  Mfg.  Co. 

674  Water  St.  Seneca  Falls,  N.  Y. 


PLAYS 


Dialogues,  Tableaux,  Speakers,  for 
School.Club  &  Parlor.  Best  out.  Cata- 
logue free.  T.  S.  DBNisoN.Chicago.IH. 


Applies  liquid  color  by  a  jet  of  air. 
Gold,  silver  and  special  medals  of  Frank- 
lin and  American  Institutes.  Saves  75 
per  cent,  of  time  in  shading  technical 
drawings. 

The  crayon,  ink  or  water-color  portrait 

artist  finds  his  labor  lessened,  his  pictures  improved  and  his  profits 

increased  by  using  the  Air  Brush.     Write  for  illustrated  pamphlet. 

It  tells  how  to  earn  a  living. 

AIR  BRUSH  MANUFACTURING  CO.  58  Nassau  St.  Rockford,  III. 


Ask  for  The  VICTOR  Coal  Hod. 

The  Best  in  the  World.  No  more  dirty 
carpets  from  coal  dust  and  water,  as  these 
are  made  of  the  Jinest  quality  Steel,  per- 
fectly ivater  tight.  Made  -without  rivets. 
Name  stamped  on  bottom  of  each.  Take  no 
other;  a  trial  will  convince  you  they  are  the 
best  made.  Sold  by  all  leading  dealers  ;  or 
write  us  for  the  name  of  dealer  where  you 
can  get  them. 

VICTOR  KNECHT,  Manufacturer, 

Cincinnati,  O. 


.Self-Acting, 
CONTINUQUSjNEXPENSIVEtRELIABLE. 

ALL  IMPURE  AND  OFFENSIVE  ODORS 
ABSOLUTELY  REMOVED. 

This  apparatus  consists  of  an  iron  vessel 
with  a  tightly  fitting  lid,  held  down  with  a 
screw,  and  inclosing  a  porous  cup,  which  is 
saturated  with  a  volatile  disinfecting  fluid.  A 
small  screw-valve  is  arranged  on  the  side  of 
the  case.  Opening  both  lid  and  valve,  a 
current  of  antiseptic  vapor  issues,  carrying 
with  it  the  volatile  disinfectants. 

SELF-ACTING.  Each  Vaporizer  sold  charged  for  use. 
No  care  except  to  replenish  once  in  two  months  at  ex- 
pense of  4  to  8  cents,  according  to  size.  Three  sizes, 
$3.50,  $5.00,  $8.00. 

Illustrated  Pamphlet  free  to  all.    Address 

SHERMAN  "KING"  VAPORIZER  COMPANY, 

Chicopee  Falls,  Mass. ;  Boston,  New- York, 
Philadelphia,  or  Chicago. 


BOOK  HOLDERS. 
OOK  RESTS.  SEND  FOR 

DICTIONARY  HOLDERS.     CATALOGUE. 

ADJUSTABLE  TABLES.     R .  M .  L A  M  B I  E 
TLAS  STANDS.  39  E.  19th  St.,  H.  Y.  '  & 


OVER  TEN  MILLION  PAIRS  SOLD. 

THE  WARREN  FASTENER  has  a 
ROUNDED  RIB  around  the  part  which  holds 
the  stocking,  and  WILL  NOT  TEAR  the  finest 
hose. 


HV:  ;:::M:ADE):rFROM;::::;; 
1:TH  E  •  BEST:  OF;  iWE  B  S 
i-  M  ETA  L:T R I M  M  lilM G S 
JWARRANTEDiNOTTOiRUST;  , 
1ALLPARTS  DOUBLE  STITCHED 


WARREN  HOSE  SUPPORTERS  ARE  FOR 
SALE  EVER  YWHERE.  Ask  for  them  at  the 
stores  and  BE  SURE  YOU  GET  THE  WAR- 
REN, which  may  be  identified  by  the  FAST- 
ENER which  has  a  ROUNDED  RIB  on  the 
holding  edges,  and  is  stamped  with  the  word 
WARREN.  DO  NOT  BE  DECEIVED  by 
Fasteners  which  appear  to  have  rounded  hold- 
ing edges,  as  the  process  by  which  they  are 
made  leaves  almost  a  knife  edge  on  the  inner 
or  holding  surface,  and  they  will  cut  the 
stocking. 

The  Warren  is  made  in  a  great  variety  of 
styles  for  Ladies,  M  isses  and  Children,  in  SILK 
and  COTTON  WEBS. 

Illustrated  Catalogue  of  HOSE  SUPPORT- 
ERS and  CORSET  SUBSTITUTES  mailed  free 
to  any  address  by  the  manufacturers, 

GEO.  FE0ST  &  CO., 31  Bedford  St.,Boston,  Mass. 


London  Challenger. 

Several  styles  of  this  famous  English  Coach. 


Sedan  Brougham. 

Eleven  varieties  of  Broughams  for  1890. 


Ostend  Mail  Phaeton. 

Nine  styles ;  all  of  the  present  year. 


London  Rake. 

Eleven  varieties  of  Rakes  and  Dog-carts. 

Send  for  latest  catalogue,  just  issued. 

FEED.  F.  FRENCH  &  CO.  Boston,  Mass. 

American  Agents  of  Million,  Guiet  et  Cie.  of  Paris. 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^m 


s 


i 


IS  OBTAINED f ROM 
THESPRIJDELSFRJNG 
BY  EVAPORATION 


CURES  CONSTIPATION .» 
AIDS  DIGESTION ! 
CORRECTS  ACIDITY! 


EISNER^  MENDELSON  C050LE  AGENTS  forthfU  S 
■  OFfJeE-6BAteLAySI  w-.Y-- 


i 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M§ 


I|!H 

ISO 


FREE! 

To  any  one,  old  or 
young,  sending  us  the 
name  of  this  Prksident, 
and  enclosing  a  2-cent 
stamp  to  pay  postage, 
we  will  send  a  sample 
cake  of  WILLIAMS' 
SOAP  for  Toilet  Use, 
and  a  little  Primer  re- 
garding its  various  uses. 

Enclose    stamp,    and 
address 
The  J.  B.  Williams  Co., 

Glastonbury,  Conn. 


Twenty-Two  of 
the  Presidents  of 
the  United  States 
have  used  WILL- 
IAMS' famous 
Shaving  Soap,  not 
only  for  shaving,  but  for  the  bath  and  general  Toilet  Use. 

For  Toilet  Use  WILLIAMS'  famous  BARBERS' 
SOAP  is  admirably  adapted,  and  is  now  used  by  thousands  and 
thousands  of  families,  at  home  and  abroad.  No  "  head  of  a 
family  "  need  hesitate  to  follow  the  example  set  by  so  many  il- 
lustrious "heads  of  the  Nation." 

WILLIAMS'  BARBERS'  SOAP  is  delicate  as 
cream,  and  creates  a  most  delicious,  soothing  lather. 

It  leaves  the  skin  with  that  soft  and  cleanly  feeling 
that  is  so  refreshing.  It  is  not  expensive,  and  recommends  it- 
self to  every  one  who  tries  it.     We  want  you  to  try  it. 

Don't  think  that  because  Williams'  Soap  was  origi- 
nally intended  for  Shaving  it  can't  be  good  for  the  toilet. 

That's  just  the  point.  Since  Shaving  is  naturally  an 
irritating  process,  it  requires  a  soap  soothing,  delicate,  and  healing, 
to  counteract  this  irritation. 

This  Williams'  Soap  has  done  in  millions  and  millions 

and  millions  of  cases,  is  still  doing,  will  do  in  many  millions  more. 

As  a  Toilet  adjunct,  it  acts  in  precisely   the   same 

manner — softening,  soothing,  healing,  and  preserving  the  skin  in 

the  most  perfect  condition. 

For  free  sample  or  pound  package,  address 

THE  J.  B.  WILLIAMS  CO.,  Glastonbury,  Conn.,  U.  S.  A., 

Proprietors  of  the  famous  "  Genuine  Yankee  Shaving  Soap"  and 
Williams'  Shaving  Stick. 


This  cut  represents  a  Pound  package  of  WILL- 
IAMS' BARBERS'  BAR  SOAP,  as  you  will  find 
it  at  your  druggist's. 

It  contains  6  round  cakes. 

A  pound  package  would  last  you  (one  person)  a 
year  or  more.  We  mail  one  of  these  pound  pack- 
ages to  any  address  for  40  cents  in  stamps,  postpaid. 

THE  J.  B.  WILLIAMS    CO.,  Glastonbury,  Ct. 


The  secret  of  many  a  girl's  beauty  is 
HER  TEETH. 

Yet  this  is  a  secret  no  longer  when 
she  utters  the  word  " Prophylactic." 


For  natural  teeth  —  children  and  adults  —  the 

PROPHYLACTIC    TOOTH    BRUSH. 

Made  in  5  grades  of  bristles. 
For  artificial  teeth  the 

FLORENCE  DENTAL  PLATE 

is  a  necessity. 


Either  Brush  sent  by  mail  for  35  cents. 


From  copyright  photo,  by  Fallc. 


FLORENCE  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

Florence,  Mass. 


gE3EgBEH3iElE!HIE33a 

Gives  Pearly  White  Teeth,  Ruby  Gums,  Pure 
Breath,  Cooling  and  Refreshing.  25c.  Send  for 
book,  "Care  of  Teeth,"  free.  Wright  &Co.,  Chemists, 
Detroit,  Mich.     Also  in  liquid  or  powder  form. 


Before  deciding  where  to  spend  the  winter,  write  to  E.  S. 
Babcock,  Jr.,  Manager  the  Hotel  Del  Coronado,  CORONADO 
BEACH,  San  Diego  County,  California,  for  a  pamphlet  descriptive 
of  Coronado  Beach.     Agassiz  said  of  Coronado's  Climate  . 

"A  climate  that  has  ?w  equal." 


FOR  THE  TEETH. 
DELICIOUSLY    FLAVORED. 

The  most  delightful,  refreshing,  agreeable,  and  beneficial 

dentifrice  ever  placed  before  the  public. 

Absolutely  Free  from  All  Injurious  Substances. 

LARGE   BOTTLES,  PRICE  25   CENTS.        REFUSE   SUBSTITUTES. 

PREPAREDandGUARANTEEDby  E.  W.  HovT&  Co.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

MANUFACTURERS  OF  THE  CELEBRATED    HOYT'S     GERMAN      COLOGNE. 


ORCHID  FLOWER  PERFUMES 

(Registered). 

WOULD  you  fully   satisfy   the    requirements    of  a   refined   taste    for  exquisite 
perfumes,  use  Seely's  Orchid  Flower ;  they  are  delightful  reproductions  of 
the  odors  of  these  aristocratic  flowers. 

Stanhopea,    Galeandra,    Vanda, 
Miltonia,    Anguloa,    Calanthe. 


1 -ounce  Bottles, 


$2'  VL  I  See  Cut. 


10. 75  I 
1.50  5 


If  not  to  be  obtained  of  your  druggist,  we  will  send  by  mail,  post-paid,  on  receipt  of  price. 
Sold  also  by  the  pound  to  the  drug  trade. 


SEELY  MANUFG.  CO.  KBMS&?  Detroit,  Mich. 


Bad  Complexions 


with  Pimples 


Cuticura 


Blackheads,  red,  rough  and  oily  skin  and  hands  are  prevented  and  cured  by  that  greatest 
of  Skin  Purifiers  and  Beautifiers,  the  celebrated  Cuticura  Soap,  when  all  other  so-called 
skin  and  complexion  soaps  and  remedies  fail.  Why  ?  Because  it  prevents  clogging  of  the 
sebaceous  glands  with  sebum,  the  cause  of  pimples,  blackheads  and  most  complexional  disfigurations. 

derives  its  remarkable  medicinal  properties  from  Cuticura, 
the  great  Skin  Cure,  but  so  delicately  are  they  blended  with 
the  purest  of  toilet  and  nursery  soap  stocks  that  the  result  is 
a  medicated  toilet  soap  incomparably  superior  to  all  other 
C^\  skin  and  complexion  soaps,  while  rivaling  in  delicacy  and 

^^^\  f\  ||  surpassing  in  purity  the  most  expensive  of  toilet  and  nursery 

*<~J  \*J  %*\>  Y^  soaps.     Sale  greater  than  the  combined  sale  of  all  other  skin 

soaps.    Sold  throughout  the  civilized  world.     Price,  25  cents. 

"All  about  the  Skin,"  64  pages,  300  Diseases,  50  Illustrations  and  100  Testimonials,  mailed  to  any  address.     A  book  of  priceless 
value,  affording  information  not  obtainable  elsewhere.     Address  Potter  Drug  and  Chemical  Corporation,  Proprietors,  Boston,  U.  S.  A. 

CLj     „  T^irP  w't"1  Itc^nS  a°d  Burning  Eczemas,  and  other  itching,  scaly  and  blotchy  skin  and  scalp  diseases,  are  relieved  by  a 

single  application,  and  speedily,  permanently  and  economically  cured  by  GutlCUra.  Remedies,  tne 
greatest  Skin  Cures,  Blood  Purifiers  and  Humor  Remedies  of  modern  tim;s.  This  is  strong  language,  but  true,  as  proven  by  hundreds  of 
grateful  testimonials.     Use  them  now.     They  cure  when  physicians,  hospitals  and  all  other  remedies  fail. 


The    Finest    Perfumes 
and  Toilet  Soaps 

Are  Manufactured  by 

HOUBICANT, 

PERFUMER 

to  HER  MAJESTY,  the  QUEEN  OF  ENGLAND,  and 
the  COURT  OF  RUSSIA, 

19  Rue  du  Faubourg  St.  Honore, 

P&RIS. 

For  chapped 
hands  and  face. 

Tones,  Smooths,  Softens,  Whitens  and  Strengthens  the  Skin 
after  shaving.  WELL. ! ! !  try  it.  Price,  35c.  All  Druggists, 
or  THE   MAYEL.L.-ELOPP    CO.    CLEVELAND. 


WITCH  HAZEL  JELLY 


Barry's 


1801 


m 


M  Tricopherous 

Wj!!kkK  FOR    THE 


An  elegant  dressing  exqui- 
sitely perfumed,  removes  all 
impurities  from  the  scalp,  pre- 
vents baldness  and  gray  hair, 
and  causes  the  hair  to  grow 
Thick,  Soft  and  Beautiful. 
Infallible  for  curing  eruptions, 
diseases  of  the  skin,  glands  and  muscles,  and  quickly  healing 
cuts,  burns,  bruises,  sprains,  &c.  All  Druggists  or  by  Mall, 
60  Cents.    BARCLAY  &  CO.,  44  Stone  St..  New  York. 


Have  you  used 

Packer's  Tar  Soap 

for  Shampooing  ? 

Prof.  I>.  G-.  Brinton,  HE*  !>.,  the  distinguished 
scientist,  says:  "  Packer's  Tar  Soap  is  remarkably  pure, 
cleansing  and  healing ;  excellent  in  Seborrhoea  of  the 
Scalp,  Dandruff,  Chafing  and  Itching." 

Baby's  Bath? 

Christine  Terliune  Her  rick  (Cradle  and 
Nursery,  p.  43),  says:  "  For  baby's  bath  Packer's  Tar 
Soap  is  preferable  to  all  others.  In  removing  scurf  or 
dandruff  from  the  baby's  head,  in  relieving  the  itching  and 
irritation  caused  by  chafing,  it  is  beyond  compare." 

Complexion  ? 

Dr.  l<eo  (Preservation  of  Beauty),  says:  "  Packer's 
Tar  Soap  removes  blotches,  '  blackheads,'  and  the  shiny, 
oily  appearance  which  is  so  objectionable,  and  establishes 
that  healthful,  brilliant,  natural  cuticle  which  must  be  the 
ba*5is  of  all  beautiful  complexions." 

25   Cents. 

All  Druggists.     Sample,  10  cents  in  stamps. 
Mention  The  Century. 

THE  PACKER  MFG.  CO.  100  Fulton  St.  N.  Y. 


-«  PERFUMES  <&~ 


Made  from  flowers 


Sweet  South. 
Picciola. 
Roussel  Rose. 
Eden  Bouquet 
Luneas. 


IN  THE  LAND  OF  FLOWERS 

Doussan  Violet. 
Frangipanni. 
Lys  des  Incas. 
Imperial  Pink. 
Persian  Heliotrope. 
Mandarin  Orange  Bloom. 
Japan  Hyacinth. 

Demand  them  of  your  druggist,  or,  if  he  can't  supply 
you,  send  us  20  cents  in  stamps  and  your  address,  and 
we  will  mail  you  samples  of  all  above  with  instructions 
" How  to  test."  We  will  convince  you  that  they  are  the 
most  delicate  and  most  lasting  perfumes  made. 

DOUSSAN  FRENCH  PERFUMERY  CO. 

46  Chartres  St.  New  Orleans,  La. 


THE    IiATBST    AWD    BEST. 


DELICATE,  DELIGHTFUL,  LASTING  AND  ECONOMICAL. 

Its  fragrance  is  that  of  tha  opening  buds  of  Spring.    Once  used 

you  will  have  no  other. 

Sold    Everywhere.       Try    Xt. 

JAS.  S.  KIRK  &  CO.,  Chicago. 


NEW  PERFUMES 


ASK  FOR  WO&DWORTH'S 

PERFUMES. 

BLUE  HUES 


PEARL  OF  SAVOY 


UPLE  EXTRACT 

Hill 

iWoODWORTH 
ROCHESTER  NV 

TradeMark. 


PERFUMES  OF 
Jry'.    EXQUISITE  DELICACY 
|,  AND  REMARKABLE 

111        PERMANENCE.    YOUR 
I        FAVORITES  AT  ONCE 
,         BECAUSE  THEY  ARE 
LASTINC.    SOLD  BY 
ALL   DRUGGISTS. 
WRITE  TO  US  ENCLOS 
H         INC  25c.  IN  STAMPS 
"|        AND    RECEIVE    ONE 
HALF  OUNCE  SAMPLE 

C,  B.   WOOD  WORTH    &    SONS, 

ROCHESTER,  NY: 


It  takes  two  to  make  a  bargain. 


*&■>■ 


It  formerly  took  the  same  number  to 
make  a  dress;  but  now  with  HALL'S 
BAZAR  FORM  dressmaking  is  accom- 
plished by  one  person  with  comparative 
ease.  SEND  A  MONEY  ORDER  and 
the  FORM  will  arrive  in  due  season 
to  prove  this  assertion.  We  may  be 
strangers  to  you,  but  our  friends  run  high 
into  the  thousands,  and  we  expect  to  count 
you  with  them.  When  you  have  used  the  FORM  once  you 
will  be  loud  in  its  praise.  It  can  be  adjusted  to  fit  any  of  the  lady 
members  of  your  family,  and  when  not  in  use  can  be  folded 
into  small  space  like  an  umbrella,  and  stowed  away 
in  your  bureau  drawer  or  closet.  Many  ladies 
carry  the  skirt  form  in  a  trunk  when  travel- 
ing.    It  's  splendid  for  rearranging  drapery. 


COMPLETE    FORM,  $6.50;    SKIRT   FORM  (to  which 
bust  can  be  added),  $3.50;    SKIRT  FORM  ONLY  (in  case),    %..^ 
$3.00.     Forwarded  to  any  address  on  receipt  of  price.     If  you 
are  not  satisfied  after  reading  this   that   you   need  a    FORM 
an   illustrated   circular — mailed  free  if  you    mention   October"*^ 
Century  —  will  certainly  convince  you. 

HALL'S    BAZAR    FORM    CO.   833    Broadway,    New -York. 


TESTIMONIALS. 

"  The  best  ever  invented." —  The  Butterick  Publishing  Company.     "  Suits  our  system  to  perfec- 
tion."—  Annie  Jenness-Miller.    "  The  only  practical  folding  form." — James  McCall  6°  Co.  Bazar 
Patterns.     "  Indispensable  for  home  dressmaking. " — Madame  Demorest  Fashion  Co.    "There  is 
nothing  made  that  can  equal  it." —  .9.  T.  Taylor  French  System  of  Cutting  and  Fitting.    "  A  long- 
closed.    opened,    felt  want  admirably  supplied." — Publisher  Harper  Bazar  Patterns. 
Oct.  '90. 


Would  You  Like  to  Dress  Stylishly? 

If  so,  we  can  aid  you,  and,  what  is  of  equal  importance,  can  show  you  how  to  do  it  at  small  cost. 
You  will  probably  need  a  new  Cloak  or  Wrap  this  season  and  desire  something  pretty,  stylish  and  well 
made.  If  you  buy  it  at  a  store  you  will  have  difficulty  in  getting  a  perfect  fit,  and  besides  the  stores 
charge  such  high  prices. 

We  are  manufacturers  of  Ladies',  Misses'  and  Children's  Cloaks  and  Wraps  of  all  kinds,  and,  by 
selling  direct  to  you,  we  save  you  the  jobber's  and  retailer's  profits,  amounting  to  about  one-third  the  cost 
of  a  garment. 

We  cut  and  make  every  cloak  to  order,  thus  insuring  a  perfect  fitting  and  beautifully  finished  gar- 
ment.    We  pay  all  express  charges  at  our  own  expense. 

We  sell  Stylish  Jackets,  8*3. 50;  those  new  three-quarter  Jackets,  $4.50  ;  elegant 
Ulsters  or  Newmarkets,  !$>6.25 ;  Plush  Capes,  8>6.25  ;  Astrachan  Cloth  Capes, 
$3.65;  Plush  Jackets,  S13.95;  Plush  Sacques,  $16.50; 
Misses' Newmarkets,  $4.75;  Children's  Cloaks,  $3.95;  Fur 
Capes,  $4.75.  Also  many  other  styles  and  higher  qualities  up  to  the 
finest  and  most  expensive  goods. 

Our  new  Fall  and  Winter  Catalogue  should  be  in  the  hands  of  every  lady 
who  admires  beautiful  and  stylish  garments.  It  contains  illustrations,  de- 
scriptions and  prices  of  more  than  one  hundred  styles  of  Ladies',  Misses'  and 
Children's  Cloaks,  Wraps  and  Furs  of  all  kinds.  We  will  mail  it  to  you, 
together  with  a  48-inch  linen  tape  measure,  new  measurement  diagram 
(which  insures  perfect  fitting  garments)  and  more  than 

FORTY  SAMPLES 

of  the  cloths  and  plushes  from  which  we  make  the  garments  to  select  from, 
on  receipt  of  four  cents  in  stamps  to  prepay  postage. 

Our  samples  include  a  splendid  line  of  new  Beavers,  Kerseys,  Chevrons, 
Jersey  Cloths,  Diagonals,  Wide  Wales,  Rough  and  Smooth  Surface  Cloak- 
ings,  etc.,  in  Solid  Colors,  Stripes  and  new  Scotch  Plaids  ;  also  English  Seal 
Plushes  in  four  qualities  and  all  the  most  desirable  Imported  and  Domestic 
materials.  We  also  have  a  special  line  of  Black  Goods,  a  line  of  Light  Weight 
and  Medium  Weight  Goods  or  a  line  of  very  fine  Cloths  for  those  who  par- 
ticularly wish  them.  You  may  select  any  style  you  desire  from  our  Catalogue,  and  we  will  make  it  to 
order  for  you  from  any  of  our  cloths  or  plushes. 

We  also  sell  cloth  and  plush  by  the  yard  to  ladies  who  desire  to  make  their  own  garments. 

(fl^p^As  to  our  responsibility  we  refer  to  The  Mechanics  and  Traders  Bank,  New-York. 
Please  mention  The  Century. 

THE  NATIONAL  CLOAK  CO..  21  Wooster  Street,  New-York. 


A.  K.  BURKHARDT   &  CO.,  CINCINNATI,  O. 

import,  make  and  sell 

FURS  AND   FUR   GARMENTS 

unexcelled  for  style,  quality  and  moderate  cost. 

Illustrated  catalogue  sent  free  to  any  address. 

A.    E.    BURKHARDT   &    CO.,  CINCINNATI,  O. 


Ladies'   Silk 

Rubber 

Mackintosh 

Garments. 


The  most  beauti- 
ful ever  shown  in 
this  or  any  other 
market,  "weighing 
only  from  10  to  12 
oz.  each. 


Send  for   samples  and  m 
directions  for 
measuring. 

BARKER    &    CO. 

27  Maiden  Lane,  cor.  Nassau  Street, 

NEW- YORK  CITY. 


COLLARS  AND  CUFFS 

FOR   GENTLEMEN. 

CLUETT,  COON  &  CO. 

MANUFACTURERS. 


Cluet.t,:Coon&  Co. 


^AJJL&d 


T  O  R  E  D  A 


^&LA^y£& 


NATICK 


HEIGHT  IN   FRONT 
2    IN 


SPACE  I/2  IN 
WIDTH  AT  POINTS  $%SL 


CLUETT,    COON    &    CO'S 


MARK. 


SHIRT© 

SOLD    EVERYWHERE 
WITH    INCREASING    POPULARITY. 


Flynt  Waist,  or  True  Corset 

No.  1  represents  a  high-necked  garment. 
No.  2  a  low-necked  one,  which  admits  of  be- 
ing high  in  the  back  and  low  front.     No.  3  is 
to  illustrate  our  mode  of  adjusting  the  "Flynt 
Hose  Support"  each  side  of  the  hip;   also, 
the  most  correct  way  to  apply  the  waistbands 
for  the  drawers,  under  and  outside  petticoats 
and    dress   skirts.     No.    4   shows   the   Flynt 
Extension  and  Nursing  Waist, appreciated  by 
mothers.      No.    5,   the    Misses'    Waist,   with 
Hose    Supports   attached.     No.    6,    how  we 
dress  very  little  people.    No.  7  illustrates  how 
Pat  Jan   6    1874      the  warp  threads  of  the  fabrics  cross  at  right 
Pat  Feb    is'  1876      an£~/es  zn  the  back,  thereby  insuring  in  every 
'    5'      '        waist  the  most  successful   Shoulder 
Brace  ever  constructed. 

It  is  universally  indorsed  by  eminent  physicians  as  the  most 
Scientific  Waist  or  Corset  known. 

THE    FLYNT    WAIST 

is  the  only  garment  manufactured  where  the  material  of  which  it  is 
made  is  shrunk  before  cut,  the  only  one  which  in  its  natural  con- 
struction contains  a 

SHOULDER    BRACE 

which  supports  the  bust  from  the  shoulders,  and  (so  essential  to  large 
girls  or  women)  thereby  overcomes  the  objectionable  abdominal  de- 
velopment. The  Flynt  Waist,  fitting  superbly,  permits  that  most 
desirable  grace  of  motion  possible  only  with  perfect  respiration 
gained  by  freedom  from  compression. 

For  singers,  actresses,  teachers,  or  pupils  of  elocution  or  physical 
exercise,  for  equestrians  or  invalids,  for  every  girl  or  woman,  the 
Flynt  Waist  is  unequaled. 

Thousands  of  ladies,  whom  we  have  fitted  by  mail  satisfactorily, 
are  constantly  blessing  its  inventor. 

JT-^3  Our  "  Manual,"  containing  48  pages  of  reading-matter  re- 
lating to  the  subject  of  Hygienic  Modes  of  Under-dressing,  Sent 
Free  to  any  physician  or  lady,  on  application  to 

Mrs.  0.  P.  FLYNT,  319  Columbus  Ave.  Boston,  Mass. 

Columbus  Avenue  cars  pass  the  house  from  all  depots. 


EDWIN  C.  BURT  &  CO. 

Manufacturers  and  Exporters  of 

Fine  Boots,  Shoes,  and  Slippers 

For  LADIES  AND  CHILDREN. 


Popular, 
Stylish, 
Durable, 
Elegant. 


Opera  Toe,  French  Heel. 
^VilMCflfrjX      gee  tha(.  eyery  pajr  is  stampe(j 

^l^      EDWIN  C.  BURT 

Sole  Stamp.   on  Linillg.  and  Sole  of  each 

shoe  as  shown  in  tracle-marks.     Uning  Stamp. 

Our  goods   are    made  in    all    widths   01  .Lasts, 

every  style  of   shoe,  sole,  toe  or  heel  required. 

Ash  Your  Dealers  for  Them. 

If  they  will  not  furnish  you,  write  to  us  for  information  where 
they  can  be  had. 

EDWIN  C.  BURT  &  CO.  New-York,  U.  S.  A. 


Agencies  at  which  the  Equipoise  Waist  may  be  found  at  Retail 

The  Agents  named  in  the  following  list  are  supposed  to  carry  a  stock  of  the  different 
styles  and  sizes,  and  purchasers  who  patronize  them  will  be  as  well  served  as  if  they  ordered 
direct  from  the  factory.  Should  they  not  have  what  you  want  insist  upon  their  send- 
ing for  it.  _*_^_ 


I  Boston 


Brockton 

Fall  River 

Fitchburg 

Gloucester 

Haverhill 

Holyoke 

Lawrence 

Lynn     . 

Lowell . 

Monson 

New  Bedford 


Massachusetts. 

.     C.  F.  Hovey  &  Co. 

.  R.  H.  Stearns  &  Co. 

Jordan,  Marsh  &  Co. 

.     John  G.  Ford. 

Isaac  D.  Allen  &  Co. 

Houghton  &  Dutton. 

W.  P.  Bigelow  &  Co. 

.  Edgar  &  Reynolds. 

R.  A.  Mc Whirr  &  Co. 

Nichols  &  Frost. 

.  Fred  Allen. 

C.N.  Rhodes. 

Ferguson  &  Logan. 

Dora  F.  Hall. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Gould. 

Mrs.  N.  L.  Wheeler. 

Miss  Belle  Niles 

.  Geo.  W.  Chace. 

Mrs.  C.  T.  Johnson. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Todd. 

A.  McCallum  &  Co. 

Mrs.  L.  T.  Robinson . 

Smith  &  Murray. 

Mrs.  L.  J.  Merritt. 

.    Denham  Bros. 

L.  L.  Pierce. 


f  Middletown 
New  Britain 
New  Haven 
New  London 
Norwalk 
Norwich 
Stamford     . 

Waterbury 

Willimantic 

Winsted 

Augusta 

Bangor 

Biddeford  . 

Lewiston 

Portland 

Skowhegan 


J.  H.  Bunce. 
.  D.  Miller  &  Co. 
Howe  &  Stetson. 
S.  A.  Goldsmith. 
J.  L.  Ambler  &  Sons. 
F.  E.  Dowe. 
C.  O.  Miller. 
J.  H.  Short. 
S.  T.  Turner  &  Co. 
.      H.  E.  Battey. 
Wm.  Frank. 
Maine. 

C.  A.  Libby. 

.     H.  W.  Durgin. 

J.  R.  Libby. 

.    Mrs.  J.  T.  Lemont. 

.    Owen  Moore  &  Co. 

.  T.  B.  &  J.  A.  Colby. 


Newburyport 
Northampton 
Salem  . 
Springfield  . 
South  Gardner 
Westboro     . 
Worcester  . 

Michigan. 

Battle  Creek  .  B.  Salisbury  &  Co. 
Detroit  Newcomb,Endicott  &  Co. 
Jackson       .     W.  M.  Bennett  &  Son. 

New  Hampshire. 


Concord 
Dover  . 
Franklin.Falls 
Manchester 
Nashua 


Hazleton  &  Son. 

A.  E.  Parker 

F.  H.  Gerry. 

F.  W.  Fitts. 

Cusson  <fc  Co. 


Akron  . 

Cleveland 

Columbus 

Salem  . 

Sandusky 

Youngstown 


Cedar  Rapids 
Council  Bluffs 
Davenport  . 
Des  Moines 
Sioux  City  . 


II 

Ohio. 

.  John  Wolf, 

.   W.  H.  Quimby, 

Dunn,  Taft  &  Co. 

Chas.  C.  Snyder. 

:  Kugel  Bros. 

G.  M.  McElvey  &  Co. 

Iowa. 

.  W.  K.  Taylor. 
E.  J.  Davis. 
.  August  Steffen. 
.  Younker  Bros. 
Frank  A.  Moore 


EQUIPOISE  WAIST. 


New  York. 

Binghampton 

Sisson  Bros.  &  Weldon, 
Brooklyn    Liebman  Bros.  &  Owings. 
"        Mrs.  L.  Higham, 

456  Fulton  St, 
"  .  Frederick  Loeser  &  Co, 

"  .     Wecbsler  &  Abraham. 

Buffalo  .  .J.N.  Adam  <fc  Co. 
Elmira  ...  E.  D.  Drew. 
Hudson  .  .  .  E.  F.  Parmlee. 
Lockport  .  .  Simon  Bier  &  Son. 
N.  Y.  City  E.  J.  Denning  &  Co., 

784  Broadway. 
"       "      B.  Altman  &  Co., 

301  Sixth  Ave, 
"        "      Lord  &  Taylor, 

901  Broadway. 
"       "      S.  W.  Richards, 

66  W.  23d  St. 
**       "      Miss  H.  Freud, 

72  W.  23d  St. 
"  "  W.  I.  Allen,  2  B,  W.  14th  St. 
"       "      Jenness  Miller  Pub.  Co., 

363  Fifth  Ave. 
"  "  E.  J.  Bedell,  12  W.  14th  St. 
Rochester  .  .  D.  A.  Wightman. 
Syracuse  .  .  .  Mrs.  L.  Lacy, 
Troy  .  .  .  •  W.  H.  Frear. 
TJtica     .       .       .       .       J.  H.  Cutter, 

Connecticut. 
Ansonia       .        .       .      W.  H.  Plumb. 
Bridgeport         .      D.  M.  Read  &  Co. 
Hartford     .       .         Geo.  O.  Sawyer. 
"  Brown,  Thomson  &  Co. 

Meriden       .     Ives,  Upham  &  Rand. 


Boned  with  Genuine  Whale 
bone.  For  Ladies,  Misses  and 
Children.  A  Corset,  a  "Waist 
and  a  Corset  Cover  Combined. 
The  Best  Corset  Substitute  in 
the  world.  High  Neck  and  Low 
Neck;  L,ongf  Waist  and  Medium 
Waist;  with  Bones  and  with- 
out Bones;  White,  Tan  and 
Black. 

Prices  60c,  75c,  $1.75,  $2.00, 
$2.25,  $2.50  and  $3.00. 

Bones  removable  without 
ripping:. 

Illustrated  Catalogue  mailed 
free  to  any  address  by  the 
manufacturers. 

GEO.  FBOST  &  CO., 

31  Bedford  St.  -    -  Boston,  Mass. 


Bradford     . 
Butler  . 
Connellsville 
Corry    . 
Erie 

Franklin 
Greenville  . 
Harrisburg . 
Johnstown 
Lock  Haven 
McKeesport 
Meadville    . 


Pittsburg 

Scranton 

Sharon 

Titusville    . 

Warren 

Washington 

Wilkes  Barre 


Illinois. 

Bloomington      .       .       .    Cole  Bros. 
Cairo     .       .       .       .       C.  R.  Stuart. 
Chicago        .       Marshall  Field  &  Co. 
Mrs.  S.  W.  Pike, 

75  Madison  St. 
"  National  Dress  Improvem't. 
Ass'n,  157  Wabash  Ave. 
Decatur  .  .  Linn  &  Scruggs. 
Jacksonville  .  Phelps  <fe  Osborne. 
Peoria  ....  Clarke  &  Co. 
Quincy  .  .  Pollock  &  Murphy. 
Rockford  .  .  .  D.  J.  Stewart. 
Springfield  R.  F.  Herndon  &  Co. 

Pennsylvania. 

Allegheny  .  .  .  Boggs  &  Buhl. 
Allentown  .  .  H.  W.  Hunsicker. 
Altoona  .  Win.  F.  Gable  &  Co. 
Beaver  Fails  .  .  .  John  Paff. 
Braddock    .       .       .    J.  H.  McCune. 


Mrs.  R.  T.  Hotcbkiss. 
.  L.  Stein  &  Son. 
E.  Dunn. 
R.  F.  Livermore . 
I.  A.  Forman. 
.  J.  T.  Campbell. 
.  N.  E.  Tillotson. 
H.  Cohen. 
Mrs.  Jas.  Quinn. 
.  G.  B.  Perkins. 
.  Knox  C.  Hill. 
.  G.  D.  Trawin. 
Parkesburg  Caroline  E.  Smith,  M.D. 
Philadelphia 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Smith,  1029  Walnut  St. 

Jos.  Home  &  Co. 

C.  F.  Walter  &  Co. 

Test  &  Co. 

Mrs.  H.  Newson. 

J.  F.  Kertcher  &  Co. 

Wm.  Smith  &  Son. 

Jonas  Long. 

Missouri. 

Kansas  City        .     G.  Y.  Smith  &  Co. 
"         "     Mra.  J.  D.  Newby, 

1103  Main  St. 
Sedalia  .  .  Hve  &  Guenther. 
Springfield  .  Chas.  H.  Heer,  D.  G.  Co. 
St.  Joseph 

Townsend,  Wyatt  &  Young. 
St.  Louis      .        Wm.  Barr,  D.  G.  Co. 

Kansas. 

Atchison  .  .  .  Donald  Bros. 
Emporia  .  Strauss  &  Schlesinger. 
Leavenworth  .  .  Bruns  Bros. 
Topeka  .  Stevenson  &  Peckham. 
Wichita       .        Chapman  &  Walker. 

Miscellaneous. 

Atlanta,;Ga.  Mrs.  II.  A.  McLellan, 

10  W.  Ellis  St. 
Baltimore,  Md. .  .  E.  Pohl  <fc  Co. 
Black  River  Falls,  Wis. 

Jones  Lumber  &  Mercantile  Co. 
Burlington,  Vt.  .  Lyman  &  Allen. 
Chattanooga,  Tenn. 

D.  B.  Loveman  &  Co. 
Colorado  Springs,  Col. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Bel  ding. 
Denver,  Col.    Mrs.  SV.  Lazell, 

6i)7  16th  St. 
Eau  Claire,  Wis.  Theo.  Hoffman. 
Helena,  Mont.  .  .  F.  H.  Fowles. 
Indianapolis,  Ind.  L.  S.  Ayres  &  Co. 
Jackson,  Miss. 

Lusk,  Buckley  &  Boyd. 
Lincoln,  Neb.  Ashby  &  Millspaugh. 
Los  Angeles,  Cal.  .  B.  F.  Coulter. 
Louisville,  Ky.  .  .  John  C.  Lewis. 
Madison,  Wis.  .  .  S.  I.  Ogilvie. 
Memphis,  Tenn.  .  Bella  Levy. 
Milwaukee,  Wis. T  A.  Chapman  &  Co. 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Minneapolis  Dry  Goods  Co. 
Mont  Clair,  N.  J.  Mrs.  A.  Maynard. 
Montpelier,  Vt.  L.  P.  Gleason  &  Co. 
Nashville,  Tenn. 

L.  Rosenheim,  Bro.  &  Co. 
Newark,  N.  J.  .  Heath  <fc  Drake. 
Oakland,  Cal.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Ober  &  Co. 
Omaha,  Neb.  .  S.  P.  Morse  &  Co. 
Pasadena,  Cal.  .  Mrs.  A.  K.  Knox. 
Passaic,  N.  J.     .  Wm.  Abbott. 

Pawtucket,  R.  I.  David  Harley  &  Co. 
Portland,  Oregon  .  P.  E.  Brigham. 
Providence,  R.  I. 

B.  n.  Gladding  &  Co. 

Rutland,  Vt.    .         .  C.  E.  Ross. 

San  Francisco,  Cal.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Ober. 

<*32  Sutter  St. 

St.  Johnsbury,  Vt. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Sanborn. 
St.  Paul,  Minn.  Field.  Mahler  &  Co. 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Annie  K.  Humphrey,  10th  St. 
Wheeling,  W.  Va.  G.  M.  Snook  &  Co. 
Woonsocket,  R.  I. 

Vaslett  &  McCarthy. 
Yankton,  S.  D.  .       .        Martha  Cox. 


If  your  city  or  town  is  not  represented  in   the  above  list  get  your  dealer  to  send  for  a 
waist  for  you,  which  can  be  returned  if  not  satisfactory . 


HODGMAN'S 
MACKINTOSHES 

For 

Ladies  &  Gentlemen 


Areunecju^lled-for  softness 
of  fabric  &  Wearing 
qualities. 

Being  f&rSvpenor  To  any 
Simil&rjmported  goods« 

prices  o.nd  Samples  furnished 
r      on  ^pplicdfion  to 

HODGMAN  RUBBER  CPMPANY, 

MANUFACTURERS. 
Bro&clw&y,  cor.Gro.nd  Sfreel\  NewYork 

21  West  23d  Street,  New-York,  and 
32  School  Street.  Boston. 


Endorsed  and  commended  by  best  known 
Physicians  of  the  country.  ' '  Two-fold  through- 
out, thereby  creating  an  inter-air  space," 
which  affords  complete  protection  from 
draughts  or  sudden  chills,  warmer,  softer, 
with  no  ii'ritation  to  the  skin,  more  elastic, 
better  fitting  and  with  less  weight  than  sin- 
gle fabric  underwear.  Manufactured  from 
finest  selected  and  hand-sorted  Australian 
Lamb's  Wool.  Adapted  for  wear  to  Men, 
Ladies  and  Children,  and  surpassing  in  pro- 
tection to  the  person — comfort  and  pleasure 
to  the  wearer — any  goods  heretofore  offered 
to  the  public.  Sold  by  leading  merchants  in 
all  principal  cities.  Illustrated  catalogue 
mailed  free  on  application  to 

HARDERFOLD  FABRIC  CO.  TROY,  N.  Y. 


DON'T 
WEAR 

STIFF 

Corsets 


that  ruin 

your  health 

and  comfort. 

TRY 

"GOOD 
SENSE" 

Money  returned 
if  not  satis- 
factory. 


FERRIS'  Patent 

GOOD 
SENSE 

Corset  Waists 

[tins:  Buckle  at  Hip  for 

Hose  Supporters. 
Tape-fastened  Buttons— 

won't  pull  off. 

Cord-Edge  Button 
Holes — won't  wear  out 

3EST  MATERIALS 

throughout. 

FIT  ALL  AGES 

Infants  to  Adults. 

Child 
.50 
.70 
.75 

Miss 
.70 
.75 

.SO 

.85 

Young 

Ladies 

1.00 

1.10 

Ladies 

l.OO 

1.25 

1.SO 

1.75 

2.00 
Mailed  free 
on  receipt 
of  price,  by 

FERRIS  BROS.,  ■ 

341  Broadway,  New  York. 

MARSH  ILL  FIELD  &  CO.,  Chicago 

Wholesale  Western   A  cents. 

J.  RICHARD  FREUI>  «fc  CO., 

Wholesale  Western  Agents,  728  Market  St.,  San  Francisco,  Cal> 


ABOUT    G-LOVES 

When  buying  gloves  REMEMBER  that 
there  is  such  a  thing  as  a  price  that  is  too 
cheap.  It  is  better  to  pay  a  fair  price  and 
get  good  gloves  like 

HUTCHINSON'S. 

They  are  made  from  selected  skins  with 
care,  and  WARRANTED.  If  you  want 
SERVICEABLE  and  good  fitting  gloves, 
ask  your  dealer  for  'his  make.  If  he  does 
not  have  them,  send  stamp  to  the  manufacturer  for 
book  "About  Gloves."  It  will  interest  you. 
Established  1862.    JOHN  C.  HUTCHINSON,  Johnstown,  N 


his 
.  Y. 


DILLOW  SHAM  HOLDER,  nicely  nickel  plated 
r  full  set  with  screws  complete  to  any  address  for  10  cents. 
Agents  wanted.  T.   M .  GANDY,  Chester,  Conn. 


Yatisi. 


FITS 
EASY. 


Some  corsets  are  never  easy:  there 
is  always  a  stiffness  about  them,  and 
the  period  of  breaking  them  in  has 
no  end.  What  a  relief  it  is  then  to 
know  that  there  is  at  least  one  corset 
that  is  absolutely  faultless  —  that  fits 
like  a  Jersey  —  that  needs  only  a  trial 
to  convince  the  most  skeptical  of  its 
wonderful  merit.  Why  not  try  it? 
It  is  surely  worth  while,  for  the 
money  is  returned  if  you  are  not 
satisfied;  hence  you  run  no  risk. 
If  your  local  merchant  has  n't  got 
them  yet,  then  order  from  us  by  mail  direct,  but  make  careful  in- 
quiry first,  as  you  save  the  postage. 

C^n^rial  Ordinary  shapes,  $1.35,  $1.65,  $2.00.  Nursing, 
OjJCClcLl.  $I.So.  Abdominal,  $2.00.  Postage  prepaid.  Send 
waist  measure,  and  say  if  long  or  short  waisted. 

CROTTY    BROTHERS,    NEW-YORK. 


FALL  AND  WINTER  DRESSES. 


In  Woolen  Stuffs  Plaids  are  the  most  popular  style  Tor  this 
season.  Tartan  and  clan  Scotch  Plaids,  large  broken  plaids  in 
line  materials  of  rough  surface,  colorings  brilliant  and  color- 
ings   subdued  —  an   unusual  variety    in    all    the    reliable    grades. 

In  writing  for  samples,  state  definitely  as  possible  what  is 
desired,  and  the  samples  will  be  promptly  sent.  We  cannot 
send    general    lines.  


James  McCreery  &  Co.,  Broadway  &  llth  St.,  New  York. 


UMBRELLAS! 

Ordinary  ones,  made  of 
Poor  Frames  and  Poor  Silk, 
last    only    a    few    months. 
They   are    poor  and   dear. 

BUT 

CUTTER'S 

Best  Paragon  Frames, 

PURE  SILK,  * 

*  PURE  DYE, 

Last  5  Years 

Cheapest,  Best, 

Always  Give  Satisfaction. 

TRY  THEM. 

JOHN   D.  CUTTER  &  CO., 

NEW-YORK. 


CORTICELLI  Knitting  and  Crochet 
Silk.  An  established  reputation  of  fifty 
years  goes  with  this  brand.    When 
found  on  Knitting  Silk  it  is  a  guarantee  of 


great  merit.  The  particular  features  are  High 
Lustre  and  Washing  Colors.  Look  for  the 
words"CorticelIi— Fast  Color"  on  one  end  of 
each  spool.  Florence  Home  Needlework  for 
1890  teaches  you  how  to  make  from  this  Silk 
those  Washable  Crocheted  Four-in-Hand 
Scarfs— which  are  the  new  thing  for  gentle- 
men, and  are  also  worn  by  ladies.  This 
book  will  be  mailed  on  receipt  of  six  cents. 
NONOTUCK  SILK  CO.,  Florence.  Mass. 


CLEANFASI    BLACK   STOCKINGS 


THAT  WILL  DOT  CROCK.     ARE  THE  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 

Unsurpassed  wearing  quality,  with  a  finish  like  silk.     None  genuine 

without  our  Trade-Mark  on  each  pair.     Complete  assortment 

for  men,  women  and  children.     Darning  Cotton 

of  our  dye.      Send  for  price-list. 

THE    CLEANFAST    HOSIERY    CO. 

927  Broadway  and  2  West  14th  Street,  New- York. 
20  Temple  Place,  Boston.  107  State  Street,  Chicago. 

519  Olive  Street,  St.  Louis.  57  Euclid  Avenue,  Cleveland. 


THE  SICK  BOOM 

Should  be  perfectly 
quiet.  No  noisy, 
squeaky  shoes.  No 
loud  thumping  up 
the  stairs.  A  nurse 
may  become  spirit - 
like  in  her  move- 
ments. How  ?  By 
wearing  the  Alfred 
Dolge  Felt  Shoes  or 
Slippers.  They  are 
exactly  right  for  the 
sick  room.  Equally  good  for  the 
servants,  whose  steps  so  often  dis- 
tract. The  mistress,  also,  finds  them 
invaluable.  Easy,  comfortable,  dur- 
able. Ask  for  them,  and  be  sure 
you  get  the  genuine  Alfred  Dolge. 
Illustrated  circulars  of  the  sole 
agents, 

DANIEL  GREEN  &  CO.  122  East  13th  St.  N.  Y. 


PAIITIflN  W.  r*.  Douglas  Skoes  are  war. 
UHU  I  I  UN  ranted,  and  every  pair  has  hla 
name  and  price  stamped  on  bottom. 

UblEs 

§Nys 
lFPr 

W.  L.  DOUGLAS 

$3     SHOE    GENTLEMEN. 

JgC.OO  Genuine  Hand-sewed, an  elegant  and  styl- 

w  ish  dress  Shoe  which  commends  itself. 

5S/fl.OO  Hand-sewed  Welt.    A  fine  calf  Shoe  un- 

*+         equalled  for  style  and  durability. 
SO.SO  Goodyear  Welt  is  the  standard  dress  Shoe, 

v         at  a  popular  price. 
$0.50  Policeman's  Shoe  is  especially  adapted  for 

w         railroad  men,  farmers,  etc. 

All  made  in  Congress,  Button  and  Lace, 

$3  &  $2  SHOES  ../fiBls, 

have  been  most  favorably  received  since  introduced. 

Ask  your  Dealer,  and  if  he  cannot  supply  you  send  di- 
rect to  factory  enclosing  advertised  price,  or  a  postal  for 
order  blanks.     W.  1«.  Douglas,  Brockton,  Mass. 


Dorit 

spoil yo  it  r  Feet  with 

Cheap 

Shoes. 


Don't  permit  any 
substitute  for  the 
"Korrect  Shape,"  as 
we  have  arranged  to 
supply  any  one  in  the 
United  States  who 
cannot  get  these  goods 
of  eur  agents,  and 
prepay  all  delivery 
charges,  thus  bringing 
them  to  your  door 
without    extra   cost. 

******  If  you  want 
PERFECTION  in 
fit,  with  freedom 
from  CORNS  and 
all  DISCOMFORT, 
you  will  never 
wear  anything  ex- 
cept THE  BURT  & 
PACKARD  SHOE. 


Do  you  want  a 

Genuine 
Kangaroo 
Shoe 

Absolutely  Hand- 
Made? 
If  so,  or  if  you 
want  Fr en  civ  Calf, 
Patent  Leather, 
Mexican  Burro, 
Imported  Russet 
Leather,  or  Cor- 
dovan, you  can 
have  it  in  the  "  Kor- 
rect Shape  "(trade- 
mark) ,  which  com- 
bines elegance  and 
ease  with  the  best 
•wearing    qualities. 


uppers,  and  bottoms  are  all  oak  tanned.     Any  one  not  finding  a  full  line  with  our  trade- 
sole  can  be  supplied,  charges  prepaid.     Particulars  free. 


The  last  models 
for  the  '•  Korrect 
Shape  "  are  made  in 
our  own  factory,  and 
are  the  results  of  years' 
experience  in  supply- 
ing the  highest  class 
of  trade  of  the  country. 
Only  the  be^t  grades 
of  leather  are  used  for 
mark  stamped  on  the 


The  Burt  &  Packard  "Korrect  Shape"  Shoes  are  made  in  four  grades,  viz.  :  Hand-made,  Hand-welt,  Burt-welt  and  Machine 
Sewed.  The  trade-mark  above  —  showing  the  foot  in  a  natural  position  within  a  shoe,  and  also  the  words  "  Korrect  Shape" — is  fully 
covered  under  the  Patent  laws,  and  we  shall  be  glad  of  any  information  where  dealers  are  making  use  of  either  of  these  designs  in  the 
hope  of  deceiving  the  public. 

Our  agents  should  carry  all  styles  in  Congress,  Button  and  Bat  for  Gents,  Boys  and  Youths. 

All  information  concerning  our  different  styles,  kinds  of  stock,  how  to  obtain  these  goods,  etc.,  etc.,  forwarded  by  simply  naming  this 
publication,  with  your  address  in  full.     PACKARD  &  FIELD  (Successors  to  Burt  &  Packard),  Brockton,  Mass. 


Every  kind  of  footwear  for 
men,  ladies  and  children,  in 
stock  or  made  to  order. 
Careful  attention    given 
measure  work,  a 
perfect  fit  being 
obtained  by  my 
system   of  meas- 
uring.   Send2-ct 
stamp    for    illus- 
trated   catalogue 
of  shoes  and  rules 
for    self-measure- 
ment. 


This  is  my  ENGLISH  GRAIN  CREEDMOOR,andashoeinwhich 

I  take  just  pride.  I  have  mailed  thousands  of  pairs  of  these  to  every  State  and 
Territory  in  the  Union,  as  well  as  to  Mexico,  Sandwich  Islands,  South 
America,  Japan,  Canada,  and  elsewhere,  and  have  heard  from  them,  as  yet 
nothing  but  unqualified  praise.  I  have  sold  quantities  of  them  to  civil  engi- 
neers, sportsmen,  miners,  railroad  and  army  men,  who  give  the  severest  tests  to 
foot-wear,  and  professional  and  business  men  in  the  cities  and  towns,  with  per- 
fect satisfaction.  Readers  ofTnK  Century  should  not  confound  this  -with 
the  so-called  Creedmoors  advertised  at  cheap  prices.  I  warrant  them 
•waterproof  and  one  of  the  easiest  and  most  durable  shoes  made,  a?id  well 
worth  the  money  charged.  They  are  just  the  thing  for  Fall,  Winter  and 
Spring  use,  keeping  the  feet  not  only  dry,  but  warm. 

Kept  in  all  sizes  and  widths,  and  prices  as  follows :  Heavy  double  sole 
and  tap-sole,  hand-nailed  (the  strongest  fastening  known),  bellows  tongue 
(snow  excluder),  $5.00,  or  Hand-Sewed,  $7.00.  Express  or  mail,  delivered, 
50  cents  extra. 

F.  P.  WEBSTER,  277  Washington  Street,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


CORSETS, 
WAISTS 

and 


Send  for 
Catalogue 

and 
Price  List. 


DELSAETE    CORSET    CO., 
143  West  33d  Street,  New  York. 


LIerse/II 

S&/7T  1 

tlUirr         fl 

1  nSuH&i 

GarMentj; 

i  MarMenk 

: —       TRADE  MARK   -  .  ,,' "'  .'  ,' 

!09KindstdtiSlftosfoh 

H                                                   V                          -            ■         ALLCN  -PRINT  -BUSTDmIII 

We  are  the  original  inventors  and  manufacturers  of  JERSEY 
FITTING  Union  Undergarments,  and  hold  Letters  Patent 
for  the  same.  Each  garment  is  marked  Pat.  Feb.  7,  '85,  and  all 
garments  not  thus  marked  are  infringements,  for  which  all  manu- 
facturers and  dealers  will  be  held  responsible.  We  make  in  High 
Grade,  Silk,  Silk  and  Wool,  Silk  and  Jaeger,  Silk  and  Merino, 
Natural  Wool,  Meriao,  P>albriggan,  Wool  or  Cotton  fast  black, 
Winter  and  Summer  weight.  These  garments  are  Superior  in  fit, 
in  workmanship  Equal  to  any,  and  second  to  none.  They  have 
received  the  indorsement  of  the  Leading  Uress  Reformers  in  the 
country,  "  who  are  devoted  to  the  practical  and  beautiful  in  women's 
and  children's  clothing"  ;  and  thousands  of  ladies  have  expressed 
their  unasked-for  satisfaction  as  to  fit,  quality  and  workmanship. 
We  do  a  large  business  through  the  mail,  and  when  our  garments 
are  not  found  with  your  best  dealers,  send  stamp  to  us  for  circular, 
price-list,  rules  for  self-measuring  and  "swatches,"  as  we  send  them 
to  all  parts  of  the  "  United  States  "  and  warrant  satisfaction. 


High  Tailors'  bills   are  neither  a  luxury  nor  a   necessity.     Order 

WHO  IS  YOUR  TAILOR?  =  £4'-r 

m^mmmmmm^^^^^^^m^mmmmmmmmmm^m^^^^mmm  agree  that  there  shall 
be  a  saving;  and,  moreover,  it  is  easy,  safe  and  satisfactory. 
Leaving  money  in  your  pocket  is  equivalent  to  putting  it  there. 
You  will  feel  indebted  for  the  suggestion. 

Our  magnificent  new  line  of  Suitings,  Overcoatings  and  Trouser- 
ings for  Fall  and  Winter  now  ready  —  we  have  everything  from 
good  to  the  finest  (nothing  less). 

Write  us  for  samples  from  our  Merchant  Tailoring  "Department. 
State  the  kind  of  goods  desired,  and  we  will  send  all  things 
necessary  and  without  cost  to  you. 

We  understand  Clothes  —  we  understand  Tailoring — and  we 
endorse  and  recommend  this  method.     If  you  want  samples  of 

SWGW IANAMAKER  &  BROWN, 


mention  ages. 


Philadelphia,  Pa. 


The  Largest  Clothing  and  Tailoring  Hous9  in  America. 

T   ATW    ACENTS-Senfl  for  terms. 

JLIjQ-X/  A  VAN  ORDEN  CORSET  CO.,  22  Clinton  Place,  N.Y. 


IVX} *r0RF 


ATED)    v 


ik 


ORDERS 
B.*  MAIL. 

SAMPLES  FREE: 


Send  your  Dame  and  ad- 
,  dress,  and  mention  this  publi- 
P  *P  a^t^/*\  cation,  and  the  return  mail 
\s*  _  /  Her*/  \  will  bring  you  a  line  of  our 
samples  showing  all  the  new 
and  desirable  woolens  for  the 
present  season,  from  which 
we  make  custom  garments  to 
your  order,  also  linen  tape 
measure,  fashion  report  and 
I  easily  understood  directions 
for  self-measurement.  We 
would  have  our  tiade  under- 
stand that  we  are  strictly  cus- 
tom tailors,  and  all  garments 
are  made  exclusively  to  the 
measurements  and  directions 
supplied  us,  and  videss  they 
are  completely  satisfactory  may  be  rtturned  to  vs,  and 
either  new  garments  will  be  made  or  money  will  be  re- 
funded Our  extended  facilities  enable  us  to  complete 
any  order  within  48  hours,  and  our  arrangements  with. 
the  different  express  companies  permit  us  to  deliver  a 
pair  of  pants  to  any  address  atamaximumcost  of  35c, 
a  suit  or  overcoat  at  75c.  Our  prices  range  from  $4  up- 
wards on  pants,  $16  on  suits  and  overcoat?,  and  are  at 
all  times  the  lowest  possible  for  high  grade  tailoring. 
Remember  that  any  failure  on  our  part  to  completely 
satisfy  our  patrons  is  our  sole  loss.  As  to  onr  responsi- 
bility we  refer  by  permission  to  the  Capital  National 
Bank  of  Indianapolis,or  any  express  company.  Address 

The  KAHN  TAILORING  CO.,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

jg®-w"e  want  competent  agents  everywhere,  to  whom 
wo  will  allow  liberal  commissions. 


TRY  THIS  ON  YOUR  PIANO. 

A  Selection  from 

THE   ROSABEL  WALTZES. 


Copyright,  Willis  Woodward  &  Co  , 

M *t  derntn 


By  Edward  J.  Abraham. 


MUSIC 
GIVEN 
AWAY! 

We  wish  to  bring  to  your  notice  two 
very  popular  and  choice  pieces  of  music. 
One  is  a  song  entitled  "  More  than 
Tongue  Can  Tell,"  (introducing  the 
"Wedding  Chimes),  by  Chas. Graham,  author 
of  "If  the  Waters  could  Speak  as  they 
flow,"  "  Somebody's  Ship  will  be  Home 
By  and  Bye."  The  other  is  "  The  Rosa- 
bel Waltzes,"  by  Edward  J.  Abraham' 
author  of  the  celebrated  "Mephisto  Ga" 
votte,"  as  played  by  all  the  orchestras. 
The  regular  price  of  these  pieces  is  GO 
cents  each,  but  to  introduce  them  in 
every  home,  we  will,  on  receipt  of  40 
cents,  send  either  of  the  above,  and  with 
each  order  send  free  ten  complete 
pieces  of  our  very  latest  vocal  and 
instrumental  music,  full  size  (11  1-2 
x  13  in.),  printed  on  elegant  heavy 
music  paper,  and  would  cost  $4.0O 
if  bought  at  music-stores;  or,  if  you 
will  send  80  cents  for  both,  we  will 
send  you  twenty-five  pieces  free.  A 
magnificent  collection. 


A  COLLECTION  OF  SONGS 

By  JULIAN  JORDAN, 
Author     of    "The    Song    that     Reached     My     Heart,"     "That 
Melody    Divine."    etc.,    handsomely    bound     in   leatherette* 
a  very  pretty  gift,  postpaid,  $1.00. 


A  good  salary  paid  to 
agents  for  "  Woodward's  Musical 
Monthly "  (sample  copy  and  terms, 
ten  cents).  „■    " 


WILLIS  WOODWARDS  Co, 

842  &  844  BROADWAY, 

NEW    YORK. 


THE    ART    INTERCHANGE   ( 


Established 
1878. 


THE  ART  INTERCHANGE  (Established  1878)  is  a  practical  guide  to  all  the  arts,  and  is  valuable  alike  to  the  earnest  student,  the 
struggling  and  clever  amateur  and  to  all  women  interested  in  the  beautifying  and  decoration  of  the  home.  No  journal  in  the  world  ap- 
proaches it  in  the  beauty  of  its  exquisite  colored  supplements,  of  which  one  is  given  with  each  issue,  in  all,  26  a  year ;  in  the  practical  artistic 


value  of  its  full-size  working-design  supple- 
ments, or  in  the  wealth  of  suggestions  given  in 
every  one  of  its  beautifully  illustrated  issues, 
towards  the  artistic  furnishing  and  beautifying 
in  every  way  of  the  home. 

It  is  alike  the  most  thorough  and  cheapest  of 
art  periodicals.  Where  else  can  you  procure 
in  one  year  36  colored  plates,  36  deco- 
rative design  supplements  and  36  beau- 
tifully illustrated  30-page  papers,  full  of  in- 
teresting hints  and  instruction,  for  but  $4.00  a 
year.   Of  this  atrial  will  convince  you,  therefore 

THE  ART  INTERCHANGE 
makes  the  following  trial  offer,  which  will 
be   sent   at   once,  for  only  $1.35;    ten 
lovely  colored  plates,  as  follows  : 
Moonlight  Marine.     Narragansett. 
Sunflowers. 

Sunny  Day.     Street  Scene. 
Screen  Panel.     Cupids. 
Chrysanthemums.     Yellow  and  white. 
First  Snow.     Birds  in  snow. 

A  Clearing-  in  the  Woods. 
Purple  Iris. 


A  ("ONCARNEAU    PEASANT  (BRITTANY). 
Water  Color,     Size,  20  x  14  inches. 


Also   two  colored   designs   for    china 

painting,  also 

Seven  decorative  design  supple- 
ments, full  working  size,  and  the  last  seven 
illustrated  copies  of  this  unrivaled  periodical. 

Except  with  this  offer,  these  colored  studies 
above  sell  for  $3.00. 

Or,  a  sample  copy  with  beautiful  colored 
study  of  the  Catskill  Mountains,  deco- 
rative design  supplement  and  colored  china 
painting  supplement,  will  be  sent  for  only  10 
CENTS. 

Or,  for  30  CEMTS,  sample  copy,  colored 
china  and  decorative  design  supplements  and 
colored  supplements,  A  Brittany 
Peasant  Woman,  after  Walter  Satterlee, 
together  with  Catalogue  containing  100 
illustrations  of  our  colored  works  will  be 
sent  to  any  address. 

Catalogue  sent  free  for  postage,  if 
Centurv^Magazine  be  mentioned. 

Address 


THE  ART   INTERCHANGE,  37  &  39  W.  22d  Street,  N.  Y, 


Oct.  '90. 


1      balance  ofthisYearFREEl 


I 

pi 

SARAH  ORNEJEWETT'S  New  Story,   & 
"  Mrs.  Parkins's  Christmas  Eve."   fp 
Also,  New  Stories  by 

SUSAN  COOLIDGE, 

HARRIET  PRESCOTT  SPOFFORD, 

ANNE  SHELDON  COOMBS. 


To  all  who  subscribe  for  next  year  (see  Offer  below)  to 

The  fADIES'HOAE 

■-Journal 

^Sff    Edited  by  EDWARD  W.  BOK. 

Some  of  the  special  features  for  these  Autumn 
numbers  are: 

Another  New  Story  by 

MRS.A.D.T.WHITNEY, 

ENTITLED 

"A  Golden  Gossip." 


P 
& 

£ 

^ 


With  Illustrations  by  such  Eminent  Artists  as  |T 

W.  L.  Taylor,  C.  D.  Weldon,    Frank  T.  f/J 

Merrill,  C.  T.  Hill,  E.  W.  Kemble,  E.  H.  \j£ 

Garrett,  and  others.  \jT 

ILLUSTRATED  POEMS  BY  \T 

'Will  Carleton,  Margaret  Deland,  |/^ 

Rose  Hartwick  Thorpe, Laura  E.Richards.  [/ 

*^j   rpHE  special  articles  include,  "How  to  Train  the  Voice,"  by  the  [^ 

Celebrated  Operatic  Tenor,  Italo  Campanini.  "How  I  Have  \fa 

n  Old,"  by  P.T.Barnum.  "The  Story  of  a  Society  Girl,"as  \fo 

"Pfi  told  by  a  well-known  New  York  fashionable  belle.  "Liberties  of  Our  \T* 

-pj>  Daughters, "by  Mrs.  Admiral  Dahlgren."  Why  Flirting  is  Wrong,"  ^ 


vj 


£ 


'i  by  Felicia  Holt.  "How  to  Celebrate  Wedding  Anniversaries,"  by  f^- 
j[{  Florence  Howe  Hall.  "The  Courtship  of  General  Grant,"  as  told  ££ 
^j  by  Mrs.  Grant.      A  Series  of  Humorous  Sketches    by  Robert  J.  f^ 

I 


Burdette.     With  regular  departments,  complete  in  every  detail,  and  \J^ 

each  under  the  charge  of  editors  well  known  as  high-salaried  writers.  K 

We  will  mail  the  Journal  from  now  to  January  ist,  1892 —  f/>* 

that  is,  the  balance  of  this  year,  FREE,  and  a  FULL  YEAR  fi£ 

from  January  ist,  1891,  to  January  ist,  i8g2,     Also  our  handsome  40-page  Prem-  6^* 

ium  Catalogue,  illustrating  a  thousand  articles,  and   including   "Art  Needlework  L>* 

Instructions,"  by  Mrs.  A.  R.  Ramsey ;  also  Kensington  Art  Designs,   by  Jane  S.  F/^ 

Clark,  of  London.  iy- 


For  $1.00 


N.  B. — This  offer  must  POSITIVELY  be  mentioned  when  sending  your  Subscription, 

or  one  year  only  will  be  given. 


CURTIS  PUBLISHING  CO.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  k- 


THE  YOUNG  LADIES'  JOURNAL. 

THE    BEST    JOURNAL    FOR 

Ladies  and  Families. 

The  OCTOBER  part  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Journal  is  NOW  READY. 
It  contains  the  beginning  of  a  new  story,  "A  BREATH  OF 
SLANDER";  the  continuation  of  "A  TROUBLE  TO  HER 
FAMILY " ;  several  complete  stories ;  Splendid  Colored  Parisian 
Fashion  Plate  of  twenty-four  illustrations  of  Autumn  Toilets  for 
Ladies  and  Children;  A  Beautiful  Colored  Design  for  Painting- 
or  Embroidery  ;  The  Gigantic  Supplement  with  a  great  num- 
ber of  Fashion  Illustrations  ;  also,  full-size  Patterns  ;  Cookery 
recipes;   Pastimes;   Music;   Poetry;   Fancy  Work  of  all  sorts,  etc.,  etc. 

THIS  NUMBER  IS  OF   INTEREST  TO  ALL  LADIES. 

Price,  30  cents  a  copy ;  or,  yearly,  $4.00,  including  the  extra  Christmas 
number.  For  sale  by  all  newsdealers.  The  Young  Ladies'  Journal  is 
published  monthly,  on  the  ijth  of  the  month  previous  to  its  date.  Any 
Newsdealer  will  take  your  subscription  for  two  or  three  months,  or  for  any 
other  period,  beginning  with  any  issue. 

THE    INTERNATIONAL    NEWS    COMPANY, 

One  Door  Bast  of  Broadway.  83  &  85  Duane  St.  New- York. 


Ol  Is  the  title  of  a  serial  story  by  Mrs.  Ame- 

1^3 X  1C  ^a  E.  Barr,  one  of  the  most  brilliant  and 

popular  of  living  novelists,  author  of 
"  Friend  Olivia,"  now  running  in  The 
Century.  "  She  Loved  a  Sailor"  will  be 
published  in  The  Christian  Union,  be- 
ginning early  in  October,  and  running 
through  four  months  or  more.  It  is  a 
dramatic  and  fascinating  novel,  treating  events  in  New -York 
City  during  the  great  bank  struggle  of  Jackson's  administration 
with  powerful  realism.  The  love  story  is  wholesome  and  charm- 
ing. For  one  dollar  The  Christian  Union  will  be  sent  to 
any  new  subscriber  for  five  months,  for  introduction.  Three  con- 
secutive sample  copies  for  10  cents. 


Loved  a 
Sailor 


The  Christian  Union  is  a  Family  Paper  which  aims  to  help,  stimulate  and 
entertain  every  member  of  every  household  by  the  broadest  education  through 
current  history  and  direct  and  practical  treatment  of  all  timely  topics.  It  is  a  con- 
tinuous history  of  the  world  in  weekly  chapters.  Each  issue  is  made  up  on  the 
issues  of  the  week.  "Tho  best  and  brightest  of  religious  papers,"  says  the 
Boston  Advertiser.  "Emphatically  a  paper  by  thinkers  for  thinkers,"  says  the  M^OOA^VtARy 
New- York  Tribune.  J—  n  _ / 


TQg  Christian  Union 

llsa:A  :rAMliy:PAPCR:Sffl 


IHE 

INTERNATIONAL 

CYCLOPEDIA 


IS    THE 

LATEST  and  BEST 

FOR 

READY 
REFERENCE 

IN    THE 


LIBRARY, 

SCHOOL, 

STUDY, 

OFFICE, 

HOME. 


1  would  sooner  buy  it  for  actual  use  than  any  other  now  in  the  market. 

JAMES  P.  BRYCE,  Librarian  Public  Library,  Springfield,  111. 
It  is  used  continually  in  our  school,  where  we  have  all  other  English  Cyclopedias. 

Col.  PARKER,   Principal  Cook  County  Normal  School,  111. 
I  have  it.     It  is  by  far  the  best  Cyclopedia  for  the  money  I  have  ever  examined. 

Rev.  D.  A.  LONG,  D.  D.,  President  Antioch  College,  Ohio. 
It  is  full  enough,  and  does  not  contain  so  much  that  it  takes  all  night  to  find  what  you  are  looking  for. 

JOHNS  McCLEAVE,  Attorney  B.  &  O.   R.   R.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
It  is  to-day  the  one  best  suited  to  the  most  readers. 

Dr.  BANCROFT,  Principal  Phillips  Academy,  Andover,  Mass. 

SOLD  FOR.  CASH  OR  ON  EASY  PAYMENTS.     SALESMEN  WANTED. 
Write  for  Descriptive  Circulars  if  you  are  interested. 

DODD,  MEAD  &  COMPANY,  Subscription   Department,  753  and  755  Broadway,  N.  Y. 


WILLIAM  SCHAUS' 

Art  Galleries. 

Paintings  and  Water  Colors 

by  the  most  eminent  modern  masters. 

Finest  Etchings  and  Engravings, 

Art-Books, 

Artists'  Materials, 

Artistic  Framing. 

204  Fifth  Avenue  ( Madison  Square), 

New-York. 

ITBUBSER'S  POPULAR   ELECTRICIAN. 

An  Illustrated  Monthly  Journal  devoted  to  the  benefits  of  the 
Amateur  and  Public.  Post-paid  one  year,  50c. ;  six  months,  25c. 
Catalogue  Free.  BUBIER   PUB.  CO.  Lynn,  Mass. 

A  Public  Library  is  now  purchasing  large 

and  small  collections  of  books  at  liberal  prices,  paying  cash. 
Executors  and  others  having  libraries  to  dispone  of,  address  our 
Agent,  F.  P.  Harper,  17  East  16th  St.,  New-York. 

Babyhood. —  Devoted  to  the  Care  of  Infants. 
$1.50  a  year.      5   Beekman   St.   New-York. 

"The  Mosaic  Account  of  Creation,  The  Mir- 
acle of  To-day."  298  pages,  $1.00  post-paid. 

"  It  permits  Moses  to  tell  his  story  in  his  own  way." 
Hon.  Wm.  E.  Gladstone:  "I  should  have  been  sorry  to  omit 
any  of  the  chapters."  Dr.  Howard  Crosby  :  "  A  complete  mouth- 
shutter  to  those  that  would  pit  Genesis  against  Science.  One  of  the 
most  valuable  contributions  to  Biblical  exegesis  ever  published."  Dr. 
Taylor  Lewis:  "  It  is  entitled  to  the  highest  attention."  Address 
C.  B.  Warring,  Ph.  D.,  Military  Institute,  Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y. 


A  THEOLOGICAL    CURIOSITY. 


Familiar   to   our   Forefathers   1500  years   ago, 
known  to  one  man  in  fifty  thousand. 


but   not   now 


The  Apocryphal  Books,  being  the  Gospels  and  the  Epistles 
thrown  out  of  the  New  Testament  by  the  Council  of  Nice,  A.  D. 
325  •  translated  from  the  original  tongues  with  copious  notes,  and 
illustrations  from  Ancient  Missals  and  Miniatures. 


Of  this  work,  Dr.  Talmage  has  recently  said  : 

"  Christ  is  the  joyous  boy  of  the  fields.  We  are  not  permitted 
to  think  that  the  shadjws  of  Calvary  darkened  His  pathway  as 
a  youth,  and  the  Apocryphal  Books  of  the  New  Testament 
show  much  of  the  early  Life  of  Christ  not  to  be  foimd  in  the 
four  Evangelists." 

Price,  in  large  8vo,  cloth,  $2.00.  Sold  only  by  subscription. 
Agents  wanted  in  every  county.     Send  for  circulars. 

GEBBIE  &  CO.,  Publishers,  Phila. 

FOREIGN  PHOTOGRAPHS. 

Various  sizes,  mounted  and  unmounted.  Works  of  the  Old  Mas- 
ters in  the  Galleries  and  Churches  of  Europe.  Italian  Views. 
Modern  Paintings:  from  the  originals  by  Alinari,  Nay  a,  Brock- 
mann,  Hollyer,  Berlin  Co.,  Hanfstaengl,  Mansel,  etc.  Braun's 
Carbon  Photographs.     Imported  direct  by 

C.  H.  DUNTON  &  CO.  50  Boylston  St.  Boston. 

New  l88q  Catalogue  of  ioo  pp.  mailed  for  10  cts.  in  stamps. 

Authors  and  Publishers  should  get  the  prices 
ofTheAldine  Printing  Works,  Cincinnati,  before 
closing  contracts  for  Printing  or  Binding.  This 
establishment  is  among  the  largest  and  best- 
equipped  in  the  country,  with  every  requisite  nec- 
essary for  the  production  of  the  smallest  pamphlet 
or  the  largest  book.  Fire-proof  vaults  for  the  safe- 
keeping of  plates.  C.  J.  Krehbiel  &  Co. 

Mention  The  Century. 


A  Chance  to  Make  $50.00 


REVERIE  OF  THE  MAGAZINE  READER. 


The  above  is  a  small  and  a  very  poor  reproduction  of  a  double-page  cartoon,  composed  of  advertisements  cut. 
from  magazines  and  fitted  together,  which  appears  in  the  October  number  of 

ART   IN    ADVERTISING, 

An  Illustrated  Monthly  for  Business  Men. 

THE       of  $50.00  is  offered  for  the  most  complete  list  of  advertisements  used  in  the  above  picture,  but 
only  subscribers  are  eligible  —  therefore  subscribe.     All  the  particulars  are  given  in  the  October 
PRIZE    number,  now  ready. 

Hp U£        is  for  all  men  interested  in  pushing  their  business  and  getting  along,  from  the  greatest  merchant 
to    the    smallest    store-keeper.        Each    number   contains    Designs    for   Advertising,  Articles    on 
PAPER   Circularizing,  Newspaper,  Magazine   and    Catalogue  Advertising,  all   fully  illustrated.        Enter- 
taining, helpful  and  suggestive. 

DON'T   here,  but  tak_'  your  letter  paper  and  envelope  and  send  $1.00  for  a  year's  subscription;   it  will 
take  250  such  letters  to  pay  for  this  advertisement,  but  it  has    paid   before,  thus  demonstrating 
STOP     that  Art  in  Advertising  is  worth  the  money. 

Our  special  features,  such  as  "  Cost  and  Result"  column,  showing  actual  returns  of  an  Advertise- 
ment in  different  mediums,   are  invaluable  to  Advertisers. 

The  Men  to  See.         Attracting  Trade.         Random   Notes,  etc.,  etc., 

Have  added  much  to  the  paper's  prestige.       Address 

ART    IN    ADVERTISING    CO.  Publishers,  35  &  37   Frankfort   Street,  New-York. 


MORE    SOLD   THAN   ALL    OTHER    MAKES   COMBINED, 

The  Paul  E.  Wirt  Fountain  Pen, 

Bloomsburg,  Pa. 


350,000  in  use. 
Positively  The  Leading  Pen, 


"An  absolutely  perfect  reservoir  pen,  a  pen  compared  with  which  all  other  pens  are  frank  failures." 
Ask  your  dealer  or  send  for  catalogue.  Mention  The  Century.  Mark  Twain. 


Fountain  Ink  Stands  have  Come  to  Stay. 

GREATEST  ECONOMIZER  OF  INK 
EVER  CONCEIVED. 

BUY  THE   BEST.     BUY  THE 

DAIN  AUTO-PNEUMATIC  INK  STAND. 

Eill  it  at  the  Top  by  Removing  Pin. 

Easier  to  Fill. 
Easier  to  Clean. 
Easier  to  Operate. 
Easier  on  the  Desk. 

Easier   to   Keep 
in  Order. 

Easier  to  Sell. 


Ink  will  not  spill 
if  upset. 


Easier  to  Buy. 
$1.25  EACH. 

Save  75  per  cent,  in  ink.      Keep  your  ink  fresh. 
Keep  your  fingers  clean.     Keep  it  free  from  dirt. 
Keep  your  desk  clean.         Keep  your  temper  in  trim. 
Instructions  for  using  —  Do?i,i  need  any. 

MANUFACTURED    BY 

THE  ROYAL  NOVELTY  CO. 


P.  O.  Box  111, 


PITTSBURGH,  PA. 


JOHNSTON'S  IMPROVED   INK  ERASER 

Made  of  steel.     Erasing 
\ surface  is  rounded  off  and 
dressed  as  files  are,  the  cut 
being   very  sharp   and 
uniform.  Handy,  dura- 
ble, does  not  dig  into  the  paper  ;  makes 

a  smooth,  clean  erasure.     BEST  ERASER  in  the  market.    Ask  your 
stationer,  or  send  25  cts.  C.  W.JOHNSTON, 

735  W.  Main  St.,  Louisville,  Ky. 


ffl  <r%*f<r«^(®^oS3t<e>^s^^^S^s<i  m 


FWDEVOEM 

ESTA5L15MED  1852 

Of  f  [CES:C°R.'f  ULTON  &  WILLI  An-5H| 

NEW  YORK," 


ARTISTS' 
AATERIALS. 


mQj 


'2$MB 


SKETCHING   OUTFITS© 

OF  ALL  KINDS 

TU5LeoL°RVWATEr\eolPflS-CRAYbN5 

MWINQPAPEH-CANVAV5RU5rlE5-0IIi»nEDlUA5- 
AATMEnATICAh  INSTRUMENTS 

HOUSE  PAINTERS  COLORS 
FRESCo  CoL°R5 •  FINE  VARNISHES 

Correspondence  invited  -Catalogues  cf  our  different 
departments  To  responsible  J3iriTes. 
COFFIN-DEVOE&C9-i76RAND0LPH5TCrl!Cr\Cig 


77 
$ 

i 


I 

i 

Si 


DIXON 


AMERICAN 
GRAPHITE 


PENCILS 


Are  unequaled  for  smooth,  tough  leads. 

If  your  stationer  does  not  keep  them,  mention  THE  CENTURY  Magazine, 
and  send  16  cents  in  stamps  to  the  Joseph  Dixon  Crucible  Co.,  of  Jersey 
City,  N.  J.,  for  samples  worth  double  the  money.     It  is  worth  your  trouble. 


PAT      N1AR  I2V  '89 


Patent  Novelty  Folding  Coin  Purse. 

More  popular  than  ever.  Prices  reduced.  Most  roomy  and  least  bulky- 
purse  made.  Cannot  lose  small  change  and  has  no  frame  or  catch  to  break  or  wear 
the  pocket.  Ask  your  dealer  for  it,  or  I  will  mail  you  one  post-paid,  in  black,  red  or 
brown  morocco  on  receipt  of  40  cents,  or  full  calf,  70  cents,  or  of  genuine  seal,  85  cents. 

JAMES   S.  TOPHAM,  Sole  Manufacturer, 

1231  Pennsylvania  Avenue,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Please  mention  Century.  The  trade  supplied.      Write  for  prices. 


PAT.  MAR  l*I*W 


IF  SO,  WHEN   ABOUT  TO   REPLENISH 

Ask  your  Stationer  for 

BOSTON   LINEN, 

BOSTON   BOND 

OR 

BUNKER   HILL   LINEN. 

These  papers  have  gained  an  unprecedented  repu- 
tation among  society  people  on  account  of  their  superior  quality  and  reasonable  price.  They 
are  to  be  had  in  almost  every  size  and  thickness,  plain  and  ruled,  antique  or  smooth  finish.  The 
Boston  Bond  —  very  peculiar  in  appearance  —  (that  's  our  secret)  —  pleases  the  most  fastidious. 
The  elegant  Boston  Linens  are  always  satisfactory.  The  Bunker  Hill  Papers  are  honest  goods, 
within  the  reach  of  everybody's  purse.  ♦ 


SAMPLES 
FREE 

On  Two  Conditions. 


Samples  of  all  the  above  and  many  others,  representing 
in   the  various  sizes,  plain   and  ruled,  more  than  300 
Varieties,   will  be  sent   free  to  any  address,  provided: 
First.     That  the  "  October  Century  "  is  mentioned. 
Second.      That  there  is  no  dealer  in  the  town  or  city  keeping 
these  papers  to  whom  we  cafi  refer  you  for  them. 
Full  information  is  sent  with  these  samples  as  to  sizes,  envelopes  to  match,  cost  of  stamping 
with  monogram,  crest,  street  die,  etc.,  and  a  customer  in  any  part  of  the  world  is  thus  enabled 
to  order  as  intelligently  as  if  in  person  at  our  store. 


POSTAGE 
ONLY 

1 6  cents  per  pound. 


The  cost  of  sending  by  mail  is  only  16  cents  per  pound. 
Express  is  often  cheaper.  Freight,  especially  in  large  quan- 
tities, cheaper  still. 


We  make  it  for  the  interest  of  dealers  everywhere  to  sell  our  goods. 

Correspondence  solicited. 


SAMUEL  WARD  COMPANY 

(incorporated), 

PAPER  MERCHANTS, 

49  and  51  Franklin  Street, 

BOSTON. 


6   FLOORS. 


THE  ADDER 

It  will  add  two  columns  of  figures  at  a  time  with  absolute  accuracy. 

It  gives  Instantaneous  results,  and  makes  no  mistakes. 

Jt  saves  an  imme?ise  amount  of  time. 

Jt  prevr7its  brnin  exhaustion. 

The  following  is  one  of ma7iy  high  indorsements: 


Is  a  most  re- 
markable in- 
vention. 


United  States  Signal  Office,  Washington. 
"Several  'Webb-Adders'  have  been  in  constant  use  in  this  office,  and  have 
recommended  themselves  by  their  accuracy  and  rapidity." 

Gen.  A.  W.  Greely,  Chief  Signal  Officer. 
A  nynian  or  woman  who  has  much  to  do  with  figures  caimot  afford  to  be  without  one.       "  The 
Adder"  saves  both  time  and  7>wney. 

Price,  $7.00.     Sent  by  mail  (at  customer's  risk)  on  receipt  of  price  and  15  cents  postage;  or  by  express  (at  customer's  charge), 
bend  tor  a  circular,  with  full-size  cut,  description  and  testimonials  from  users  in  all  parts  of  the  country. 

WEBB'S  ADDER  CO.  58  Cedar  St.  New-York, 


THE  GEM 

PENGIL  SHARPENER. 

For  Schools  and  Offices. 
Sharpens  both  Lead  and  Slate  Pencils. 

GOULD  &  COOK,  Manufacture, 
Leominster,  Mass. 

Send,  for*  Circular. 


OFFICE  DESKS. 

Unequaled  for   design,  material,  con- 
struction, finish. 

CATALOGUE   FREE. 

Union  School  Furniture  Co. 

BATTLE   CREEK,   MICH. 

Mention  The  Century. 


Patented  by  THOS.  A.  EDISON. 

A  simple,  practical  and  economical  manifolding  device  for  every- 
day use. 

It  makes  3000  copies  of  one  original  Writing,  Drawing,  Music, 
etc.  1£>00  copies  of  one  original  Typewriter  Letter.  Recommended 
by  over  40,000  users.     Send  for  circular  and  sample  of  work. 

A.  B.  DICK  COMPANY, 

152-154  Lake  St.,  CHICAGO.  32  Liberty  St.,  NEW-YOEK. 


OVER    3000    IN  USE  0F 

zEINEEDHA 

Type-Writing  Cabinet  and 
Office  Desk  Combined. 

The  advantages  of  our  Desks  are  that  they  can  be  adjusted  to  every  known  type- 
writing machine.  We  supply  them  to  fit  the  REMINGTON,  CAL1GRAPH  and 
HAMMOND.  By  patented  mechanical  construction  they  can 
be  changed  from  Type-Writer  Desk  to  Office  Desk  instantly. 
ARE  ORNAMENTAL.  Are  dust-proof  when  closed. 
Are  solid  and  substantial,  and  without  exception  the  best 
type-writing  desks  made.  Over  3000  now  in  use.  Used 
in  the  offices  of  The  Century,  Harper  &  Brothers,  Youth's 
Companion  and  other  first-class  offices.     6  styles  of  desks. 


Address  for  Catalogue 


THE  NEEDHAM  CO.  292  Broadway,  New-York 


Clobkd  as  Debs. 


$15 


No.  42.      Packed  and  delivered  on  cars. 

Flat  Top  Desk. 

Made  in  Walnut,  Cherry  or  Oak.  Size, 
54x33^  inches.  Two  slides  ahove  drawers. 
Automatic  Lock.  Cloth  or  Polished  Veneer 
Top.     First  class  in  every  particular. 

OVER  20,000  OF  THESE  DESKS  IN  USE. 
Send  for  Desk  Catalogue. 

WM.   L.   ELDER, 

43  and.  45   South.  Meridian   Street, 
Indianapolis,    Ind. 


To  control  your  business  you  must  have  Facts. 

How  many  times  has  your  money  drawer  been  opened? 
How  much  money  is  in  tbat  drawer  at  this  moment  ? 
How  many  mistakes  have  your  clerks  made  to-day  ? 
How  many  times  have  they  made  wrong  change? 
How  many  goods  have  been  sold  on  credit  and  not  charged  ? 
How  much  has  been  paid  out  and  not  put  dowr  ? 
How  much  have  you  received  on  account  and  not  credited  ? 
How  many  times  have  your  clerks  made  change  ? 
You  do  not  know,  yet  these  are  vital  points  in  your  business,  and  the  facts  you  must  have  if  you  would  get  every  cent  due  you.    A  National 
Cash  Register  System  furnishes  you  a  record  of  every  cash  or  credit  transaction.     It  protects  you  against  all  the  unintentional  mistakes  that 
happen  to  the  most  careful  clerks. 

Send  to  THE  NATIONAL  CASH   REGISTER   CO.  DAYTON,  OHIO, 
For  "  Checks,"  a  valuable  book  for  retailers. 
Note. —  Over  22,500  National  Cash  Registers  in  use  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 


HOW    MANY  READERS 

of  The  Century  have  a  Scrap  Book  ? 
Have  you  ?     Do  you  keep  it  clean  and  tidy  ? 
Does  the  paste  stick  to  suit  you  ? 
Aha  !     /Interested,  eh  ? 

DAY'S    DIAMOND   PASTE, 

IMPERIAL  IVORY  BRAND, 

meets  all  requirements.      For  Mounting  Photographs 
it  is  unsurpassed. 


The  Objections  Mentioned  Above 
Prompted  its  Discovery. 


IMPERIAL  IVORY 

is  a  dry  powder,  ground  very  fine  and  condensed  five 
times,  that  is,  you  add  five  times  as  much  water  as 
powder,  and  the  paste  is  ready  for  use. 

Put  up  in  packages  with  the  cutest  little  brass-bound 
brush  you  ever  saw. 

You  will  order  a  package  ?     Thank  you. 
Druggists,  Photo.  Supply  Dealers  and  Stationers  keep  it,  or  you 
can  send  25  cents  in  stamps  to 

THE  DIAMOND  PASTE  CO. 

(incorporated), 

Albany,  N.  Y.,  U.  S.  A. 

New -York  Office,  93  Barclay  Street; 
Boston,  156  State  Street ;      Chicago,  66  Wabash  Avenue. 
Oct.  '90. 


BANK  &  OFFICE   FITTINGS 

Fine  Brass  Work. 

Special  designs  on 

application. 

ANDREWS  MFG.  COMPANY 

76  Fifth  Ave.,  N.  Y.  City. 

A.  H.  ANDREWS  &  CO. 

195  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago. 


NEW  MODEL  HALL  TYPEWRITER 


THE  BEST  STANDARD  TYPEWRITER  IN  THE  WURLD. 

Cheap,  Portable,  No   Ink    Ribbon,   Interchangeable   Type  in  all 

Languages,  Easiest  to  learn  and  rapid  as  any. 

Agents  wanted  everywhere. 

WARRANTED  AS  REPRESENTED.     Address 

National   Typewriter   Co. 

F.  0.  Box  5159.         10  Temple  Place,  Boston,  Mass. 

Send  for  Catalogue  and  Specimens  of  Work. 


HAMMOND 


** 


ftALIGRAPH. 

GREATEST    SPEED! 

Best  for  Manifolding.       100,000  Daily  Users. 


TYPEWRITER 

Ideal  and  Universal  Keyboards. 

HIGHEST  SPEED  RECORD. 


The  Hammond  won  all  the  prizes  in 
the  late  Typewriter  Contest,  by  unani- 
mous decision  of  five  printers,  represent- 
ing the  largest  establishments  in  America. 
2772  contestants,  representing  all  lead- 
ing machines. 

A  check  for  $7267.50  just  received 
from  the  U.  S.  Treasury  for  75  Ham- 
monds. 

WE   DO  NOT  GIVE  THEM  AWAY. 


THE    HAMMOND   TYPEWRITER   CO., 


447-449  East  52d  Street, 
77  Nassau  Street, 


New- York. 


THE    MOST   DURABLE. 

Single  Case,      No.  1,       -  -  -  -        $70.00 

Double  Case,       "2,  -  -  -  85.00 

New  Special,       "     3,       -  -  -  _         100.0O 

For  account  of  speed  contests  and  circulars,  address 

THE  AMERICAN  WRITING  MACHINE  CO. 

HARTFORD,  CONN. 

Branch  Offices:  237  Broadway,  New- York. 

14  West  4th  Street,  Cincinnati,  O. 
1003  Arch  Street,  Philadelphia. 
ENGLISH   FACTORY,   COVENTRY,  ENGLAND. 


"Improvement  the  Order  of  the  Age." 

FOR  15  YEARS 

All  Users  of 

TYPE^WrRITEII.S 

have  felt  the  necessity  of  their  being  improved. 
Yon  will  find  in 

THE  SMITH  PREMIER  TYPEWRITER 

THE   LATEST  AND   BEST. 

ALL  THE  Essential  Features  greatly  perfected  and  Important  Improvements. 

THE  BEST  inventive  Talent  and  Mechanical  Skill  have  been  employed  to 
produce  a  Machine  of  Greater  Durability,  Excellence  of  Design  and  Special 
Features. 

WE  CLAIM,  and  inspection  and  trial  prove  it,  The  Most  Durable  in 
Alignment,  Easiest  Running  and  Most  Silent. 

All  Type  Cleaned  in  10  Seconds  without  Soiling  Hands.        Send/or  Catalogue. 

THE  SMITH  PREMIER  TYPEWRITER  CO  Syracuse,N.Y.,U.S.A. 


OTCHEFSTROO 

Tilton  Mfg.  Co.,  50  Hartford  St.,  Boston.    Transvaal>  Sa  Africa  Republic,  Feb'y  8th,  1890. 
We  send  you  our  order  for  12  machines.     Forward  bv  the  most  expeditious  route.      *     *     *     Our 

Mr.  Taylor  will  himself  handle  your  machines,  having  handled  the  R .     It  was 

toe  heavy,  cumbersome  and  high-priced  for  general  use  here.     *     *     * 

Very  truly,  H.  F.  Taylor  &  Co. 


Ifyou  are  in  doubt  about  the  excellence,  capacity  and  speed  of  the  VICTOR  TYPEWRITER,  send  for  testimonials  and  sample  of  its  work. 

IT  HAS  80  CHARACTERS,  therefore  scope  unexceled  by  any  high-priced  machine. 
J^^ANT-A-NEOUS  RELEASE  of  printing  point  as  soon  as  impression  is  made  allows  great  speed. 
PERFECT  ALIGNMENT  AND  REGISTER.     All  the  advantages  of  the  best  in  this  respect. 
WORK  ALWAYS  IN  SIGHT,  and  postals  and  envelopes  addressed  without  bending. 
And  plenty  more  which  you  can  know  about  by  sending  your  address  to  Manufacturers, 

TILTON   MFC.  CO.  50  Hartford  St.  BOSTON,  MASS.,  or  32  I  Broadway,  NEW-YORK. 


11  you  are  in  doubt  about  the  e 

Advantages  j 


Fore  and  Four. 

To  be  fore-handed 
is  almost  as  good  as 
to  be  four-handed. 
To  own  a  Reming- 
ton Standard  Type- 
writer is  to  be  prac- 
tically   both.       This 

first  and  foremost 
indeed  chief  among  busi- 
ness facilities,  and  may  be  made  helpful,  not 
only  to  do  correspondence,  but  as  a  salesman, 
and,  in  fact,  as  a  general  utility  man. 


writing  machine  is 


Have  you  tried  a  fountain  pen  ? 

Did  it  fail  you  ? 
Then  try 

The  "Old  Reliable" 

Waterman 

Ideal  Fountain  Pen 

That  Never  Fails. 

"  I  still  find  it  the  most  reliable  instrument  of  its 
kind."—  Chauncey  M.  Depew. 

Money  refunded  if  it  does  not  suit  you.  If 
your  stationer  will  not  supply  you  don't  take 
any  other,  but  send  for  circular  with  price-list 
and  testimonials. 

Every  fountain  pen  user  will  want  either  the 
Travelers'  or  the  Desk  size  of  our  new  Filler  and 
Ink  Bottle.  The  Filler  corks  the  Bottle,  and  the 
Bottle  keeps  the  Filler  ready  for  use  next  time. 

See  advertisements  hi  previoiis  uto/iders. 
Agents  Wanted.  Mention  The  Century. 


(io-'go.) 


L..  E.  Waterman  Co. 

155  Broadway,  New- York. 


Low- Priced 

TYPEWRITERS. 


DOES    WORK     EQUAL     TO    THE     MOST 

EXPENSIVE    MACHINES. 

SPEEDYI     PRACTICAL!     DURABLE! 

No  instruction  is  needed  for  its  use,  and  speed  is 
easily  attained  by  little  practice. 


WORLD 
TYPEWRITER 


$15 


WRITES  77 
CHARACTERS. 


Catalogue     free.    Address    Typewriter    Department, 
Popk  Mitg,  Co.,  Boston,  New  York,  Chicago. 


TYPE- WRITERS! 


CALICRAPHS, 
HAMMONDS, 
REMINGTONS, 


New  or  Second-Hand,  any  make,  bought,  sold  and 
r  exchanged.  Good  machines  at  half  first  cost.  Get 
our  prices  before  buying.  Everything  guaranteed. 
Machines  rented  anywhere.  Largest  stock  in  America. 
Eibbons,  carbon,  linen  papers,  etc.  New  and  enlarged 
catalogue  describing  all  machines,  including  new 
makes,  now  ready.  Only  complete  catalogue  of  the 
kind  published. 


am  btherr'NflTIONaL  TYPE-WRITER  EXCHANGE  "^fiSkeet 


THE    CRANDALL 


S50.00. 

NO  AGENTS.        NO  COMMISSIONS. 

In  consideration  of  the  increasing  demand  for  a 
standard  two-handed  Typewriter  at  a  low  price,  we 
have  abandoned  the  expensive  method  of  selling  through 
agents,  and  now  offer  the  same  machine  (heretofore 
sold  at  $75.00)  direct  from  Factory  to  user  at  $50.00 
net  cash.  Write  us  for  catalogue,  sample  of  work,  and 
special  features  of  the  "Crandall."     Address 

Crandall  Machine  Co.  Groton,  N.  Y. 

Or,  353  Broadway,  N.  Y.  City. 
237  La  Salle  St.  Chicago,  III. 


SHIPMAN'S 

Fountain  Pen, 

With  patent  spiral  feed,  which  regulates 
the  flow  of  the  ink,  doing  away  with  the 
flooding  and  blotting  which  is  the  com- 
mon fault  with  all  other  makes. 

NEW    STYLES 
FOR   THE    HOLIDAYS, 

with  extra  gold  and  silver  mountings, 
made  especially  for  this  season,  which 
we  are  offering  at  very  low  prices  until 
Jan.  1,  1891. 

ASA  L  SHIPMAN'S  SONS, 

10  MURRAY  ST.  NEW-YORK,  U.S.A. 

Stylographic  Pens,  $1X0  each,  delivered. 


For  Canada,  order  of  Chas.  F.  Dawson,  Montreal. 

Mention  Century. 


The  largest 
Writing  Ma- 
chines    was 
for  the 


order  the  U.    S.    GOVERNMENT  ever  placed  for 


"National" 
Type  Writer 


Irrespective  of  price,  the  best  and  most  complete  Writing  Machine 
made.  Embodies  every  good  quality  found  in  other  Writing  Machines, 
and  has  many  points  of  superiority,  all  its  own.  Smallest  and  most 
comprehensive  double  case  finger  key  machine  made.  Writes  eighty-one 
to  eighty-five  characters,  including  capitals,  small  letters,  figures,  punc- 
tuation marks,  commercial  signs,  etc.  ,with  only  twenty-nine  keys  to  learn 
and  manipulate.  Entirely  portable.  Weighs  about  thirteen  pounds. 
Occupies  space  of  a  Dictionary.  Perfect  Manifolder. 
More  and  better  manifold  copies  than  upon  any  ma- 
chine made.     Price,  including  portable  office  case- 

Every  Machine   Warranted. 
NATIONAL  TYPEWRITER  CO.,  Manfrs.  and  Sole  Agents. 

715,  717  and  719  Arch  Street,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  U.  S.  A. 
Send  for  illustrated  pamphlet,  giving  fac-simile  of  key-board. 


it  thirteen  pounds. 

$60 


A  Simple, 

Compact 
Machine, 

Within  the 
Means  of  All. 
You  Need  Not 

G-o  to  School  to 
Learn  How  to 

Use  It,  or  Mort- 
gage Your 

House  to 
BUY  IT ! 


># 


Does    Work 

Equal  to 
the  One 

Hundred 
Dollar 

Machines. 
Has  no  Ribbon 
to  Wear  Out, 
Smut  the 

Fingers  or 
Paper. 


•     *-t_».» 


.1.1.1.1, 


Prints  from  Clear 
Metal  Type,  is  Self-ink- 
ing and  Beautiful  in 
Style  and  Finish. 


The  MERRITT  Typewriter  is  the  best. 

This  is  exact  copy  of  The  "MERRITT* S"  work. 
It  is  equal  to  that  of  any  High  Priced  Type- 
writer. Relieves  fatigue  from  steady  use  of 
pen.  Improves  spelling  and  punctuation.  Inter- 
ests and  instructs  children.  The  entire  corres- 
pondence of  a  business  house  can  be  done  with 
it.  Learned  in  a  half  hour  from  directions. 
Prints  capitals,  small  letters,  figures  and 
characters, — 78  in  all.  Price  $15,  complete. 


Can  both 
DUPLICATE 
and  MANIFOLD. 
Useful  and 

Beautiful 
Christmas, 

New  Year's 
or  Birthday 
Present. 

SENT  TO  ANY 
ADDRESS. 

vvvyik  a  ,r» ».  «*  *>  ^  a  a  m 


Write  for  Circulars,  Voluntary 
Testimonials  and  Sworn-to 

Speed  Test  of  60  Words  a  Minute. 

SENT   IMMEDIATELY  TO   ANY 

ADDRESS   ON   RECEIPT 

OF  PRICE,  $15.00. 

LYON  MANUFACTURING  CO., 

59  FIFTH  AVE.,  N.  Y.  CITY, 
SO  LE     AGE  NTS. 

Mention,  this  publication. 


In  OAK  case, 

Dove-tailed  corners, 

Gilt  Trimmings, 

Plush  Lined, 

on  receipt  of  $18.50 

LEATHERETTE 

Case,  Rich  and 
Elegant  Finish, 

Satin  Lined, 
Nickel  Plated 

and  Highly 
Polished 

Throughout, 
on  receipt  of  $17.50 


ONEITA 

Mineral  Waters  have  been  held  in  high  esteem  as  remedies  both  by  the  civilized  and  uncivilized 
of  every  age,  and  in  modern  times  their  use  has  rapidly  increased  until  now  their  beneficial  effects  are 
recognized  by  all.  Oneita  has  been  found  by  physicians  who  use  it,  one  of  the  best  known  mineral 
waters  for  Rheumatism,  Gout,  Kidney  and  Liver  troubles,  Dyspepsia,  etc.  Send  for  analysis  of 
C.   F.   Chandler,  Ph.   D. 

ONEITA     SPRING     CO. 


UTICA,  1ST.  Y 


ARMOURS 


(CHICAGO.) 


Extract  of  Beef. 


—FOR— 

SOUPS,  SAUCES, 

BOUILLON  or  BEEF  TEA. 

— THE — 

RICHEST,  STRONGEST, 

MOST  NUTRITIOUS, 

AKI>,   THEREFORE, 

THE  MOST    ECONOMICAL. 


Awarded  the  Gold  Medal,  Paris,  1889. 
Adopted    by    the    U.  S.  Army  Medical  Department. 


FOR    SALE    EVERYWHERE. 

fXF  the  contents  of  a  package  of  "  Cerea- 
^  line  Flakes"  costing  twenty  cents,  a  cook 
in  a  private  family  of  six  persons,  made  pud- 
dings five  times,  waffles  twice,  muffins  three 
times,  griddle-cakes  five  times;  used  "Cere- 
aline  Flakes"  in  soups  twice  in  place  of  sago 
and  barley,  and  added  some  to  six  bakings 
of  bread.  Buy  a  package  of  Cerealine  Flakes 
of  your  grocer,  and  try  how  far  you  can  make 
its  contents  go  yourself. 

The  "  Cerealine  Cook  Book."  and  "  Cereal  Foods," 
with  illustrations  of  "Hiawatha's  Fasting,"  will 
be  sent  free  to  any  address  on  receipt  of  a  two- 
cent  stamp  for  postage,  by 

THE  CEREALINE  MFG.  CO.,  COLUMBUS,  IND. 


"A  picture  of  my  little  girl,  Bess,  born  July  25th,  1887, 
now  three  years  old,  whose  life  was  saved,  Summer 
of  '88}  by  the  use  of 

Mellin's  Food. 

Yours  truly, 

J.  E.  PARRISH." 
Paris,  111.,  April  28, 1890. 


To 


DOLIBER-GOODALE   Co., 

Boston,  Mass. 


Tomato, 
Ox  Tail, 
Pea, 
Beef, 


Mock  Turtle,  Terrapin, 

Okra  or  Gumbo,  Macaroni, 

Green  Turtle,  Consomme, 

Julienne,  Soup  and  Bouilli, 


Vermicelli,   Chicken,  Mullagatawny. 

RICH  and  PERFECTLY  SEASONED. 

Re\Te^^°adb;tho^4.and  |  *nEgtf££g£i£Si^  I  Hr  eryed  th\hi*hest  r^uta- 

'        ou,y  ine  Dest  materials.        |       tion  for  more  than  32  years. 
TCOT    mrr    I        Send  us  30  cents,  to  help  pay  express,  and  receive,  prepaid,  two  sam- 
ItOl     Mitt   8    Ple   cans    ot*  t^ese    Soups,  yonr   choice. 

J.  H.  W.  HUCKINS   <fc   CO. 

SOLD  BY  all  leading  grocers.  Sole  Manufacturers,  Boston    Mais. 


DLTRKEE'S 


GAUNTLET    BRAND 

5Hjci  SPICES 

*  MUSTARD. 

SOLD  ONLY  IN  FULL-WEIGHT  SEALED  PACKAGES. 

Guaranteed  absolutely  pure,  and  warranted  to  excel 
all  others  in  strength,  richness,  flavor  and  cleanliness. 


.    ...  BOOKS  AND  MUSIC. 

At  discounts  ranging  from  ten  to  sixty  per  cent,  from  the  pub- 
lishers' regular  retail  prices.  Before  purchasing  elsewhere,  find  out 
what  we  can  do  for  you.  Sender  cents  for  our  latest  catalogue 
ofSTANDARD  BOOKS. 

HOUSEKEEPER   EIBRABY  ASSOCIATION, 

520  First  Nat.  Bank  Bld'g,  Chicago,  111. 

Fine  China. 

Beautifully  Illustrated  Catalogue  of  Fine 
China,  Art  Pottery,  Rich  Cut  Glass,  Wedding  Gifts, 
&c,  mailed   free,   upon   application  to 

HIGGINS  &  SEITEE,  50  &  52  West  22d  St.  N,  T. 


COWDREY'S 

PURE  FRUIT  JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 


THE 

GreatAmerican 


ither 


CHANCE    FOR    ALL 

To  Enjoy  a  Cup  of  Perfect  Tea. 
A  trial  order  of  3^  pounds  of  Fine  Tea, 
Oolong,  Japan,  Imperial,  Gunpowder,  Young 
yson,  Mixed,  English  Breakfast  or  Sun  Sun  Chop, 
sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  $2.00.  Be  particular 
and  state  what  kind  of  Tea  you  want.  Greatest 
—  inducement  ever  offered  to  get  orders  for  our 
celebrated  Teas,  Coffees  and  Baking  Powder.  For  full  particulars, 
address  THE  GREAT  AMERICAN  TEA  CO. 
P.  O.  Box  289,  New-York,  N.  Y.  31  and  33  Vesey  St. 


Company 


CRANULA 

The  most  nutritious  and  digestible  of  Foods.  Delicious  to  all 
tastes.  Send  for  pamphlet.  Trial  box  by  mail,  36c.  Address 
OUR  HOME  GRANULA  CO.,  Bansville,  N.  Y. 


except 
in 


No,  our 
Soups 
are   not    ex- 
tracts,    con- 
centrations nor any 
such  thing.    They 
need  no   diluting.      They  are 
absolutely  ready  for  the  table, 


Cooked,    seasoned 
and  put  up  ready, 


warm- 

for  the 

table. 


warming   alone  exc 
that  our  soups    are 
can  ordinarily  be/3 
is  to  claim  a  goodj<" 
than  we    feel   jus 
why  not,  indeed? 
with  us?     The  fact 


epted.       To      claim 

ner  in  quality  than 

prepared    at   home 

deal,  but  not  more 

fied  in  doing.   And 

it   not    a  business 

that   we   work    on    a 


gigantic    scale    is  rather  helpful  to  the  qual- 
ity of  the  product  than  otherwise. 

The  postage  on  a  sample  can  costs   14  cents  for  which   price  we 

will  send  one  of  your  choice. 

Green  Turtle,  Terrapin,  Chicken,  Consomme,  Puree  of  Game,  Mulli- 
gatawny, Mock  Turtle,  Ox-Tail,  Tomato,  Chicken  Gumbo,  French  Bouillon, 
Julienne,   Pea,   Printanier,  Mutton  Broth,  Vegetable,  Beef,   Pearl  Tapioca. 

These  goods  are  for  sale  by  Fancy  Grocers.    They  are  the  best  and 
you  want  no  others. 

The  Franco- American  Food  Co., 

4.2    West  Broadway,  New   York. 


Oct.  '90. 


The  English  People 


are  dropping  Japan  and  China  teas  and  drinking 
Ceylon. 

One-half  of  all  the  tea  consumed  in  England  and 
Scotland  is  Ceylon. 

The  reason  is  double  :   Ceylon  is  better  and  cheaper. 

Fifteen  years  ago  there  was  no  tea  from  Ceylon  ;  it 
began  to  be  grown  there  in  1875. 

That  little  mountainous  island,  less  than  the  State  of 
New  York,  has  got  half  the  trade  of  the  leading  tea- 
drinking  country  in  fifteen  years  !  It  is  going  to  get 
the  other  half. 

We  will  send  you,  free,  a  sample  of  the  tea  that  has 
done  it — -changed  the  tea-taste  of  the  happier  twenty 
millions  of  Britain  —  also  some  hints  on  steeping  and 
serving  it. 

THE    CEYLON    PLANTERS'  AMERICAN 
TEA    COMPANY,   Limited. 

Broadway  and  Twenty-second  Street,  New  York. 

Our  Coffee  is  the  finest  in  the  world  ;  but  there  is  very  little  of  it  —  the  price  is  60 
cents  a  pound — and  it  goes  no  further  than  first-rate  Java.  We  can't  afford  to  send 
free  samples  of  coffee. 


Important  to  Consumers. 

DEW   DROP   CANNED    GOODS 

Are  packed  expressly  for  those  who  can  appreciate  a  good  article.     Their  great  success  is  due  to  merit. 

WE    MAKE   THE    FOLLOWING    LIBERAL    OFFER, 
Good  only  for  October,  1890. 

To  any  one  sending  us  $12.00,  we  will    ship,  securely  boxed,  by  freight  or  express  (charges  not  prepaid): 

6  Cans  each  Maine  Sugar  Corn  and  Sugar  Corn  Granules 

for  fritters. 
6  Cans  each  Sifted  Pease  and  California  Yellow  Peaches. 
3  Cans  each  Jersey  Lima  Beans  and  Maine  Succotash. 
3  Square  Cans  Peeled  Asparagus. 
3  Cans  each  Sliced  and  Grated  Bahama  Pine  Apple. 

3  Cans  each  Preserved  Strawberries  and  Raspberries. 

4  Extra  Large  Cans  Hand-packed  Jersey  Tomatoes. 
3  Cans  Maine  Blueberries. 

These  goods  are  all  of  the  DEW  DROP  BRAND,  having  that  name  and  our  signature  on 

each  label.      We  guarantee  satisfaction. 
Remittance  can  be  made  by  bank-check,  draft  or  P.  0.  money-order,  drawn    to    the    order   of  the 

packers, 

J.  W.  BROWN   &   CO.  103   Arch   Street,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

REASONS  WHY  PETER  MOLLER'S  COD   LIVER  OIL 

QWnfTT  J\    PF    DPFTTFRRF  n        -=3sss^  ^^^^  BECAUSE — It  is  genuine-pure,  just  as  it  existed  in  the 

anUULLf    DC    mtTLnnCU  ^^^^^  ^Slllill^         hepatic  cells  of  the  living  fish,  not  depleted  of  its  natural  virtues 

TO   ALL    OTHERS.       -^r-~  ^HHfe*^   i==  ^^.   by   any  Pr°cess  of  refining,   nor  weakened  by  being 

made  into  an  emulsion 
with  an  equal  quantity 
of  water,  glycerine, 
etc.,  which  latter  <1  evice 
makes  water  bring  the 
price  of  oil. 

In  taste  and  smell  it  is  not 
offensive,  but  instead  sweet 
and  agreeable. 

Its  administration  is  always 
followed  by  satisfactory  results. 


REGISTERED 
TRADE-MARK. 


Of  its  perfect  digestibility,   per- 
fect limpidity. 

This  perfect  oil  costs  consumers 

no  more  than  the  poorer  qualities  . 

abounding  in  the  stores.  ■"  1S 

It  is  unquestionably 

W.  H.  SCHIEFFELIN  & 


It  is  more  easily  assimilated  than  other  oils 
It  is  more  nutritious  than  other  oils. 

readily  obtainable  ;   all  well-stocked  drug  stores  have  it. 

the  purest  and  best  COD  LIVEB  OIL  IN  THE  WORLD. 

CO.  New-York,  Sole  Agents  for  U.  S.  and  Canada. 


Not  only  to  the  sufferer  wasted  by  disease  does  Ridge's  Food  supplement  proper  medicines  and  bring  back  strength  needed,  but  the 
delicate  mother  will  find  in  its  daily  use  just  what  is  needed  to  check  and  supplement  the  drain  made  upon  nature's  forces.  Try  it,  mothers, 
and  be  convinced.  Ridge's  food  is  undoubtedly  the  most  reliable  food  in  the  market  for  the  rearing  of  children.  Special  directions  for  the 
most  delicate.     Send  to  WOOLRICH  &  CO.,  Palmer,  Mass.,  for  pamphlet  free. 


EXCELSIOR 
SPRINGS, 

MISSOURI, 


On  the  line  of  the  C,  M.  &  St.  P.  Rail- 
way, is  one  of  the  most  attractive  Health 
and  Pleasure  Resorts  in  the  Southwest. 
Open  all  the  year  round. 

The  Elms,  a  thoroughly  modern  hotel,  ac- 
commodating 500  guests,  directly  adjoins  the 
springs.  Within  the  Hotel  is  a  model  bathing 
establishment.  The  drives  around  the  hotel  are  superb  and  there  is  a  Music 
Hall  for  Dances,  Amateur  Theatricals,  etc.,  etc.  An  Orchestra  of  ten 
pieces  is  constantly  at  The  Elms  except  in  winter.  The  air  is  pure  — 
there  is  absolutely  no  malaria  and  no  mosquitos.  The  Ferro-Manganese 
spring  waters  are  healing  and  build  up  the  system  rapidly  and  perma- 
nently. For  indigestion,  loss  of  appetite,  etc.,  they  cannot  be  over-rated. 
The  Waters  are  sold  in  bottles  everywhere  by  leading  druggists  and 
grocers  throughout  the  country. 

Full   particulars  regarding   the   Springs  and   the    Hotel   will  be   mailed 
to  any  one  on  receipt  of  request     Address  Excelsior  Springs  Company, 

H.  C.  FISH,  General  Manager, 

Excelsior  Springs,  Missouri. 


FOR  A  ONE-DOIXAR  BILL,  sentus  by  mail  we  will 
deliver,  carefully  packed,  free  to  any  person  in  the  United  States, 
nil  of  the  following  articles  : 

One  two-ounce  bottle  of  Pure  Vaseline 10  cents. 

One  two-ounce  bottle  of  Vaseline  Pomade 15 

One  jar  of  Vaseline  Cold  Cream 15 

One  Cake  of  Vaseline  Camphor  Ice 10 

One  Cake  of  Vaseline  Soap,  unscented 10 

One  Cake  of  Vaseline  Soap,  exquisitely  scented. . .   25 
One  two-ounce  bottle  of  White  Vaseline 25 


Or  for  postage  stamps  any  single  article  at  the  price  named. 
Cheseborough  Manufacturing  Company, 
24  State  Street,  New-York. 

ROME,    PENSION    TELLENBACH. 

First-class  Family  Pension. 

Established  1863.    Bunny  Rooms. 

DUE   MACELLI  66,  PIAZZA  Dl  SPAGNA. 


H 


ARTMAN'S   PATENT   INSIDE 
SLIDING  WINDOW  BLIND 

Is  the  most  popular  blinu  in  America.  Architects  and 
builders  prefer  it  to  any  other  for  merit,  style,  con- 
venience and  economy.  Not  complicated.  The  only 
Blind  that  is  furnished  with  an  automatic  Burfijlar- 
Proof  Lock,  free  of  charge.  This  is  an  item  of  im- 
mense magnitude,  and  may  save  you  many  times 
the  cost  of  blinds  and  perhaps  life  also,  and  the  only 
blind  that  gives  entire  satisfaction.  Thousands  in 
use.  Agents  wanted  everywhere.  SSend  for  illustrated 
catalogue  and  prices.  Manufactured  bv  HARTMAN 
«fe  DUKSTINE,  22  Beaver  St.,  WOOSTEK,  O. 

CODCV^O         FRAGRANT 

tort  I  O     CREAM 

Cures  Chapped  Hands,  Face,  Lips  or  any  Roughness  ot  the  Skin, 

prevents  tendency  to  wrinkles  or  ageing  of  skin,  keeps 
the  face  and  hands  soft,  smooth  and  plump.  It  is  also 
highly  recommended  for  applying  and  holding  face 
powder.  Once  tried  always  used.  For  Sale  by  all  Drug- 
gists and  Dealers  in  Fancy  Goods. 


'MLj&.GrJSTOXjiJLJk.     SPRIMOS     HOTEL, 


Magnolia  Springs,  Florida. 


This  well  known  and  popular  winter  resort  01.  the  St.  John's  River  will  open  for  the;  coming  season  on  December  iolh,  under  the  manage- 
ment of  Mr.  A.  C.  Coleman,  for  many  years  connected  with  the  Everett  House,  Union  Square,  New- York,  where  he  will  be  pleased  to 
receive  and  answer  communications  for  rooms.     Also  send  for  illustrated  book  of  Magnolia  Springs.     Address  or  call, 

A.  C.  COLEMAN,  Everett  House,  Union  Square,  New- York. 


IF  YOU  WANT   TO   MAKE   MONEY   GO  WHERE   THE   MONEY  IS. 

HELENA,   MONTANA, 

With  a  present  population  approximating  20,000,  and  increasing  at  the  rate  of 
about  5,000  annually,  is,  size  considered, 

THE    RICHEST    CITY    IN    THE    WORLD. 

NOTICE  THE  BANKING  CAPITAL. 


Capital,  Surplus  and 
Undivided  Profits. 

Second  National  Bank $200,000.00 

American  National  Bank  .        .    .     200,000.00 
Cruse  Savings  Bank 125,000.00 


Capital,  Surplus  and. 
Undivided  Profits. 

First  National  Bank $1,148,000.00 

Montana  National  Bank  .  .  .  650,000.00 
Helena  National  Bank  ....  500,000.00 
Merchants  National  Bank     .    .        442,000.00 

Together  holding  average  deposits  of  eight  millions  of  dollars,  which  puts  Helena  financially 
on  a  level  with  cities  like  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  Indianapolis,  Ind.,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.,  and  Colum- 
bus, Ohio,  all  classed  as  among  the  wealthiest  and  most  prosperous  in  the  Eastern  States,  with 
populations  ranging  above  one  hundred  thousand  each. 

The  combined  wealth  of  the  citizens  of  Helena  in  mines,  real  estate,  cattle  and  other  property 
is  largely  above  one  hundred  millions  of  dollars,  and  is  the  result  of  but  a  few  years'  effort  in  the 
development  of  resources,  marking  Montana  as  a  State  more  bountifully  endowed  by  nature  than 
any  other  portion  of  the  habitable  globe. 

THE  STATE  OF  MONTANA,  with  less  than  two  hundred  thousand  people,  produces 
annually  in  gold,  silver,  copper  and  lead,  cattle,  horses,  wool,  hides,  sheep,  etc.,  exportable  com- 
modities amounting  to  $60,000,000.00,  nearly  equaling  in  value  those  of  the  State  of  Texas,  with 
a  population  of  two  and  a  quarter  millions.     For  full  information,  address, 

L.  G.  PHEL.PS,  Secretary  Citizens'  Committee,  Helena,  Montana. 


INVESTMENTS  IN  THE  PACIFIC  NORTHWEST, 

We  place  investments  for  Non-Residents  in  eight  principal  cities 
of  the  Pacific  Northwest.  These  rapidly  growing  cities  offer  un- 
equaled  advantages  to  persons,  either  of  large  or  small  means,  seek- 
ing investments  that  shall  secure  the  largest  profit  consistent  with 
absolute  safety  of  Principal.     Real  Estate  and  First  Mortgages  only. 

We  can  promise  a  reasonable  profit  on  every  investment  placed  by 
us.  Usual  profit  is  much  greater  than  our  guarantee.  We  refer  to 
Banks  and  Prominent  Individuals,  East  and  West.  Write  for  full 
particulars.     All  letters  answered.     WALTER  C.  SMITH, 

Ainsworth  Block,  Portland,  Oregon. 


Washington. 
Leading    Real 
Estate  and 
nancial     Bro 
kers.    Seattl 


The  "Queen 
City"  and  Me- 
tropolis of  the 
New  State  of 


For   Illustrated    Descriptive  matter  write  to  the 


tie.  ^y       __ 


T\YTT  TT'PTT  is  situated  upon  Lake  Superior  as 
13  U  JLi  U  X  XI.  Chicago  is  upon  Lake  Michigan. 
Chicago's  past  is  the  prediction  of  Duluth's  future. 
Duluth  already  controls  the  Railway  Situation  in  the 
Northwest.  Its  growth  in  population  and  business 
has  been  phenomenal  and  promises  in  the  future  to  be 
even  more  remarkable.  Investments  in  Real  Estate  will 
yield  profits  proportionate  to  Duluth's  growth.  Write 
for  further  information. 

RICHARDSON,  DAY  &  CO. 

Palladio  Building,  Duluth,  Minn. 


Made  from  16  K.    GOLD. 

Rings  style  as  shown.  Ladies 
$2.50  to  $5.00.  Gents $4.00  to $8.00. 
Misses  and  baby  rings  $1.50. 
Write  for  prices  on  pins,  ear- 
rings, etc.  SendlO  cts.  for  sam- 
ple Native  Tin.  19  choice 
specimens  of  gold,  silver,  and 
tin  ores  in  neat  cabinet  $2.00. 
Address,  CHAS.  BARCLAY, 
Mgr.  BlacU  Hills  Jewelry  Manf 'y,  Lead  City,  So.  Dab. 


PHENIX 


LOSSES   PAID 


Since  Organization  Exceed 


OF  BROOKLYN. 

Representatives  of  this  Company  are  requested  to  keep  this   an- 
nouncement  on   their   desks  to   show  their   patrons. 


Of  Dining  Cars,  Pullman  Sleepers,  and  Free  Reclining  Chair 
Cars  between  Chicago  and  Denver,  Colorado  Springs  and  Pue- 
blo, via  St.  Joseph  and  via  Kansas  City  and  Topeka,  and  between 
Chicago  and  Des  Moines,  Council  Bluffs  and  Omaha.  Fast  Ex- 
press Trains  to  Sioux  Falls,  Watertown,  Minneapolis  and  St.  Paul, 
and  (via  St.  Joseph  and  Kansas  City)  to  all  points  in  Southern 
Nebraska,  Kansas  and  Oklahoma.  The  Favorite  Line  to  all  Hunt- 
ing and  Fishing  Resorts  West.  Choice  of  Routes  to  and  from  the 
Pacific  Coast.  All  modern  improvements  that  assure  Safety,  Com- 
fort and  Luxury.  Excursions  at  Reduced  Rates.  Free  Transfers 
or  Terminal  Connections  in  Grand  Union  Stations. 


Unacquainted- with -the 
geography-  of-  the 
country,  wi  ll-obtairv 
mucfvV<a|uab!e-  infor- 
mation -from  •&•  study 

of-this-rrtep- 


E-  ST- JOHN 

Genl.  Manager: 


L.L.RouSM.pw.N.V 


chiga'go. 


SeAMflN 


„  JOHN  SEBASTIAN, 
uenl.  Ticket  &  ft>ss.  A^ent. 


Varnish  Again. 

The  natural  wood  of  the  room  you 
had  "done  over"  last  year  has  lost  its 
crystalline  beauty ;  rusty  in  spots  per- 
haps ;   a  little  dull  all  over. 

The  change  has  been  gradual,  like 
the  approach  of  some  slow  disease.  An 
every-day  friend  does  not  see  it ;  but  one 
who  has  been  on  a  journey  is  shocked — 
"  Why,  how  pale  you  look!" 

Do  you  know  that  good  varnish  lasts  ? 
It  is  the  bloom  of  health ;  and  the 
health  is  in  both  wood  and  varnish. 

Look  to  your  wood-man  for  wood ; 
to  us  for  the  varnish. 

All  we  seek  is  to  put  you  on  your 
guard.     We  will  send  you  a  primer. 

Murphy  &  Company. 

Newark,   Boston,   Cleveland, 
St.  Louis,    Chicago. 


THE   UNITED  STATES 
MUTUAL    ACCIDENT    ASSOCIATION 

JAMES  R.  PITCHER,  CHARLES  B.  PEET, 

Secy  and  Gen' I  Mgr.  President. 

320,  322  &  324  Broadway,  New-York. 


The  value  of  the  accident  insurance  furnished  by  any  Association 

depends  upon  the  amount  per  capita  paid  to  its 

members  in  claims  each  year. 

The  amount  paid  in  claims  by  several  of  the  leading  accident  insurance  com- 
panies during  1889,  in  proportion  to  the  membership  in  force  at  the  close  of 
that  year,  is  graphically  shown  below.  The  United  States  Mutual  Accident 
Association  has  returned  to  its  members  having  Preferred  occupations  in  claims 
paid  more  than  twice  as  much  per  capita  as  any  other  mutual  accident  com- 
pany doing  business,  and  its  policies  are  cheaper  at  $15  per  annum  than  those  of 
its  competitors  at  $7.50  on  basis  of  claims  paid. 

New  York  Accident  Insurance  Company. 
American  Accident  Company. 
Commercial  Mutual  Accident  Company. 

wmmmmmmmmmmm 

Travelers  Preferred  Accident  Association. 
Provident  Fund  Society. 


Manufacturers  Accident  Indemnity  Company. 

wmmmmmm^mmammmmmmmmmmmummm 

American  Mutual  Accident  Association. 


Traders  and  Travelers  Accident  Company. 
American  Accident  Indemnity  Association. 
Philadelphia  Mutual  Accident  Relief  Association. 


Massachusetts  Mutual  Accident  Association. 

BBBOnimraBHanHHnnHBHHBHBB 

Preferred  Mutual  Accident  Association. 
Union  Mutual  Accident  Association. 

(■■■■■■^■HHBKDBnBBnHHHaH 

THE  UNITED 'STATES  MUTUAL  ACCIDENT  ASSOCIATION. 


AH 


d  HEUO-V10LET  sachet  powder.- 
por  Sale  by  all  Dealers, 


THE   DE  V1NNE    PRESS. 


7f.£rv>' 


RAVELERS 


OF  HARTFORD,  CONN., 


IS    THE 


Largest  Accident  Company 

In  the  World, 

Only  Large  One  in  America. 


-A-XjSO 


Best  of  \ivye  Cowpmues. 

No  other  Life   Policies  as  liberal  cost  as  little  money, 
no  others  as  cheap  give  as  much  for  the  money. 

Assets,  $11,528,649.30 

Surplus,  $2,365,534.06 

Paid  Policy-holders  $  1 ,500,000  in  1889. 


GRATEFUL-COMFORTING. 

EPPS'S 

(BREAKFAST) 

COCOA. 

"  By  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  natural 
laws  which  govern  the  operations  of  digestion 
and  nutrition,  and  by  a  careful  application  of 
the  fine  properties  of  well-selected  cocoa,  Mr. 
Epps  has  provided  our  breakfast  tables  with  a 
delicately  flavored  beverage  which  may  save 
us  many  heavy  doctors'  bills.  It  is  by  the 
judicious  use  of  such  articles  of  diet  that  a 
constitution  may  be  gradually  built  up  until 
strong  enough  to  resist  every  tendency  to  dis- 
ease. Hundreds  of  subtle  maladies  are  float- 
ing around  us,  ready  to  attack  wherever  there 
is  a  weak  point.  We  may  escape  many  a  fatal 
shaft  by  keeping  ourselves  well  fortified  with 
pure  blood  and  a  properly  nourished  frame." — 
The  Civil  Service  Gazette. 


MADE   SIMPLY   WITH    BOILING  WATER   OR    MILK. 


Sold  only  in  half-pound  tins,  by  grocers,  labeled 

JAMES    EPPS    &    CO. 

HOMOEOPATHIC   CHEMISTS, 

LONDON. 


POWDER 

Absolutely  Pure. 

A  cream  of  tartar  baking  powder.     Highest  of  all  in 
leavening  strength. — V.  S.  Gov 7  Report,  Aug.  iy,iSS<p. 

EOYAI  BAKING  POWDER  CO.  106  Wall  St.  New-York. 


Ponds  Extract 


GenUipeinBotQes  only 

WH  BuFF,WRAPpERs 


iNrLAMMATlONS 
awp  HEMORRHAGES 


