VOL.  XL 


MAY,  1890. 


No.  1. 


& CENTURA 


ILLUSTRATED 
nONTH  LY« 


.right,  .890.  by  The  Century  Co.]      (Trade-Mark  Registered  Oct.  .8th,  .88..)      [Entered  at  N.  Y.  Poet  Off.ce  as  Second  Class  Mail  Matter. 


[The  entire  contents  of  this  Magazine  are  covered  by  the  general  copyright,  and  articles  must  not  be  reprinted  without  special  permission.] 

THE   CENTURY   MAGAZINE.     CONTENTS    FOR    MAY,   1890. 

Portrait  of  George  Washington,  by  James  Wright.     Engraved  by  T.  Johnson   .   Frontispiece. 
Archibald  Robertson,  and  his  Portraits  of  the  Wash-  )  ^'.^  „,     , 

ingtons ( Edith  Robertson  Cleveland ...        3 

Pictures  by  Archibald  Robertson  and  Andrew  Robertson. 

Some  New  Washington  Relics \  William  Armstrong 14 

Pictures  by  Harry  Fenn,  and  from  photographs.  A  Edmund  Law  Rogers 2  2 

Original  Portraits  of  Washington Charles  Henry  Hart   ....  26 

^  Frontispiece,  and  portrait  by  John  Ramage. 

Twilight  Song.    For  Unknown  Buried  Soldiers,  North  and  South  .Walt  Whitman 27 

Two  Views  of  Marie  Bashkirtseff .    .    .  \  *    *     * 28 

Pictures  by  Marie  Bashkirtseff,  and  from  a  photograph.  (  D 29 

The  Fallen John  Vance  Cheney 2* 

Friend  Olivia.    VII Amelia  E.  Barr  ...  34 

Chickens  for  Use  and  Beauty H  S.  Babcock  ........      47 

Pictures  by  James  C.  Beard  and  August  Will. 

Since  Amy  Died Andrew  B.  Saxton  ......      60 

The  Fighting  Parson Henry  Ames  Blood  .   ■ 61 

Pictures  by  G.  W.  Edwards. 

"Blacked  Out" George  Ke?inan 6c 

With  facsimile  of  pages  blacked  out  by  Russian  censors. 

A  Study  of  Consciousness H  C.  Wood 72 

The  Women  of  the  French  Salons Amelia  Gere  Mason     .....      77 

Pictures  by  Kenyon  Cox,  John  A.  Fraser,  M.  Leloir,  and  August  Will,  and  from  engravings, 
prints,  and  photographs. 

Andrea  del  Verrocchio W.  J.  Stillman     .......  94 

With  engraving  by T.  Cole 95 

Fickle  Hope.   ...:.....- .  Harrison  S.  Morris 101 

A  Decoration  Day  Revery Brander  Matthews 102 

With  tailpiece  by  R.  W.  Lockwood. 

A  Night  Scene    ..........." James  Herbert  Morse 105 

Theodore  O'Hara Robert  Bums  Wilson.    ....     106 

Pictures  by  Harry  Fenn,  and  from  a  daguerreotype,  with  O'Hara's  "  The  Bivouac  of  the  Dead." 

Institutions  for  the  Arid  Lands.    , Major  J.  W.Powell in 

The  Romance  of  Two  Cameras Elizabeth  W.  Champtiey .  .    .    .    117 

Travis  and  Major  Jonathan  Wilby Richard  Malcolm  Johnston .    .    .     125 

Pictures  by  A.  B.  Frost. 

"I  Vex  Me  Not  with  Brooding  on  the  Years" Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich  ....  134 

The  Autobiography  of  Joseph  Jefferson.    VII Joseph  Jefferson 135 

Valor  and  Skill  in  the  Civil  War: 

Was  either  the  Better  Soldier  ?    .    .    .    . General  Theodore  Ayrault  Dodge  144 

Which  was  the  Better  Army  ?  . Charles  A.  Patch 148 

TOPICS    OF    THE    TIME. 

George  Washington  and  Memorial  Day 151 

The  New  Movement  in  Education 151 

The  Lingering  Duello.  . ,.152 

The  Churches  and  the  Poor 153 

OPEN    LETTERS. 

The  G.  A.  R.  as  Seen  from  the  Inside George  L.  Kilmer 154 

Martial  Epitaphs Rossiter  Johnson  .    ......  1^6 

Public  Relief.     The  Buffalo  "  Guard  of  Honor " -.    .  Charlotte  Mulligan  .    .....  158 

The  First  Female  College     . Harry  Stillwell  Edwards   ...  159 

BRIC-A-BRAC. 

The  Evolution  of  a  Dialect  Poem Hetiry  Tyrrell .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  160 

On  Joe  Jefferson,  Telling  His  Story John  L.  Heaton 160 

My  Blotter  and  I Cora  Stuart  Wheeler  .....  160 

The  wood-engravings  in  this  number  are  by  T.  Cole,  T.  Johnson,  Charles  State,  C.  A.  Powell,  D.  Nichols,  H.  Velten,  O. 
Navlor,  E.  H.  Drlorme,  J.  P.  Davis,  R.  A.  Muller,  T.  A.  Butler,  H.  Wolf,  T.  Schussler,  T.  H.  Heard,  J.  W.  Evans,  F.  W. 
Sutherland,  S.  G.  Putnam,  G.  P.  Bartle,  C.  Schwartzberger,  S.  Davis,  P.  Aitken. 

Terms:  —  $4.00  a  year  in  advance ;  35  cents  a  number.  Bound  volumes  (containing  the  numbers  for  six  months)  in  old  gold  or  green  cloth,  gilt 
top,  each  $3.00,  or  without  gilt  top,  $2.75.  The  same  in  half-russia,  gilt  top,  $4.00.  Booksellers  and  Postmasters  receive  subscriptions.  Subscribers 
may  remit  to  us  in  P.  O.  or  express  money  orders,  or  in  bank  checks,  drafts,  or  registered  letters.     Money  in  letters  is  at  sender's  risk. 

Back  numbers  will  be  exchanged,  if  in  good  condition,  for  corresponding  bound  volumes  in  gold  cloth,  with  gilt  top,  for  $1.00  per  volume 
(six  numbers)  ;  half-russia  for  $2.25;  olive-green  cloth,  plain  top,  75  cents  each;  subscribers  paying  charges  both  ways.  Postage  on  The  Century  vol- 
umes, 35  cents.  All  numbers  sent  for  binding  should  be  marked  with  owner's  name.  We  cannot  bind  or  exchange  copies  the  edges  0/  which  have  been 
trimmed  by  machine.    Cloth  covers  for  binding  The  Century,  50  cents. 

ROSWELL  SMITH.  Prest. 

cHAs.^Hcmc?niTErRaAss'tTreas        THE  CENTURY  CO.  33  East  17th  Street  (Union  Square),  New  York,  N.  Y. 

WILLIAM  W.  ELLSWORTH,  Secy.  ' 


^  .        «A 


Some    Extracts   from    London    Press    Notices   of 


THE    CENTURY    DICTIONARY. 


HE  American  characteristics  of  enterprise  and  thoroughness  are  conspicuously 
illustrated  by  The  Century  Dictionary,  which  bids  fair  to  be  far  and  away  the 
largest  and  best  general  and  encyclopaedic  dictionary  of  the  English  language 
The  first  volume,  which  is  now  under  review,  has  been  evidently  edited 
with  all  the  care  and  skill  to  be  expected  from  the  supervision  of  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  philologists  in  the  world  (Prof.  William  D.  Whitney,  of  Yale). 
The  work,  notwithstanding  incalculable  variety  and  difficulty,  is  singularly  free 
from  error  of  any  kind.  The  typography  is  thoroughly  satisfactory,  and  the  general 
appearance  of  the  volume  is  handsome  and  attractive.  The  selection  of  the 
subjects  for  the  pictorial  illustrations  cannot  be  too  highly  praised.  Many  of  the  choicest  works  of 
art  to  be  found  in  Europe  have  been  reproduced  in  a  style  worthy  of  their  excellence,  and  their 
introduction  to  the  public  through  the  medium  of  a  popular  dictionary  ought  to  have  an  appreciable 
effect  in  elevating  national  taste  both  in  England  and  America.  .  .  .  To  judge  from  the  volume 
before  us,  this  great  work  will  be  characterized  throughout,  and  in  every  respect,  by  a  lavish 
expenditure  of  labor  and  capital,  of  rare  ability  and  technical  skill,  all  turned  to  the  best  advantage  by 
careful  and  capable  attention  to  the  uniform  realization  of  a  thoroughly  judicious  plan. 

—  Athenceum,  London. 

"  No  pains  seem  to  have  been  spared  to  render  the  work  scholarly,  accurate,  useful,  and,  for  that 
matter,  entertaining ;  the  derivations  are  as  trustworthy  as  we  naturally  expect  them  to  be  in  a  work 
edited  by  such  a  distinguished  philologist  as  Dr.  Whitney.  The  explanations  of  scientific  words  are 
singularly  clear  and  concise,  and  the  quotations  from  authors,  for  the  use  of  words,  very  appropriate 
and  well  selected.  .  .  .  We  have  nothing  but  praise  for  the  way  in  which  the  difficulties  of  such 
a  vast  and  burdensome  enterprise  have  been  surmounted.  Let  us  add  that  the  illustrations  are  skill- 
fully executed,  and  that  the  paper  and  printing  (the  latter  a  highly  important  matter  in  such  a  work) 
are  all  that  can  be  desired." — St.  James's  Gazette,  London. 

"It  is  impossible  to  resist  being  struck  by  the  manner  in  which,  since  the  establishment  of  the 
science  of  comparative  philology,  the  civilized  world  has  devoted  itself  to  the  task  of  lexicon-making. 
Among  the  efforts  that  have  been  made,  this  [The  Century  Dictionary],  so  far  as  English  litera- 
ture is  concerned,  may  rank  as  the  most  successful." — Notes  and  Queries,  London. 

11  This  new  dictionary  may  be  fairly  characterized  as  '  the  English  language  up  to  date  from  an 
American  point  of  view.'" — Telegraph,  London. 

"  This  new  lexicon  of  the  English  tongue  is,  on  its  own  lines,  perhaps  the  most  complete  and  com- 
prehensive that  has  ever  been  attempted." — Standard,  London. 


To  be   completed   in  1891. 
ONE-HALF  THE  WORK  NOW  READY 
THREE  VOLUMES:    A-L  INCLUSIVE 


A  large  pamphlet,  containing  full-size  sample  pages  of  The 
Century  Dictionary,  with  complete  list  of  editorial  contributors  and 
a  full  description  of  the  work  itself,  will  be  sent  to  any  address  upon 
receipt  of  ten  cents  in  stamps.  Descriptive  circulars  sent  free  upon 
request.  The  Dictionary  is  sold  only  by  subscription.  For  terms, 
other  information,  etc.,  address 

THE  CENTURY  CO.,  33  East  17th  Street,  N.  Y. 

May,  '90. 


THE  JUNE  CENTURY 


A  Novel  of  New  York  Society, 

"THE    ANGLOMANIACS," 

Will  begin  in  the  JUNE  CENTUBY. 

This  novel  will  run  through  three  or  four  numbers  of  The  Century.  As  its  name  indicates, 
it  touches  upon  a  striking  and  curious  phase  of  metropolitan  life.  The  name  of  the  author  is 
not  given.     The  novel  will  be  illustrated  by  Charles  Dana  Gibson. 

will  contain,  as  its  first  article,  a 
valuable  illustrated  paper  on  "  Lon- 
don Polytechnics  and  People's 
Palaces."  Like  Mr.  Albert  Shaw's  previous  Century  paper  ("  Glasgow  :  A  Municipal  Study,"  in 
the  March  number),  this  article  is  not  only  highly  entertaining,  but  extremely  suggestivein  its  descrip- 
tion of  philanthropic  work  abroad.  Most  of  the  illustrations  are  by  Joseph  Pennell.  The  frontis- 
piece of  the  number  is  a  portrait  of  Walter  Besant,  author  of  "  All  Sorts  and  Conditions  of  Men." 

Track  Athletics  in  America  —  an  article  to  appear  in  the  June  Century  —  is  particu- 
larly timely,  as  it  comes  out  at  the  beginning  of  activity  in  outdoor  sports.  It  is  fully  illustrated  from 
instantaneous  photographs,  and  is  written  by  Mr.  Walter  Camp. 

Comparative  Taxation,  by  Mr.  Edward  Atkinson,  will  appear  in  the  June  CENTURY. 
It  is  a  paper  directly  apposite  to  the  current  discussion  on  the  tariff,  being  an  attempt  to  present  an 
unpartisan,  businesslike  view  of  this  much  vexed  question. 

The  Women  Of  the  French  Salons.— This  highly  interesting  series  of  papers,  by 
Mrs.  Amelia  Gere  Mason,  which  begins  in  the  present  number,  will  be  continued  in  June;  the  subject 
in  that  number  being  "The  Literary  Influence  of  Women  in  the  XVIIth  Century."  The  illus- 
trations will  be  among  the  most  striking  features  of  The  Century's  summer  months. 

OTHER  SPECIAL  FEATURES  OF  THE  SUMMER  MONTHS. 

Adventures  of  War  Prisoners.— During  the  summer  the  century  magazine  win 

publish  papers  by  Union  and  Confederate  soldiers  descriptive  of  their  prison  experiences.  These 
papers  are  in  the  strictest  sense  stories  of  adventure,  and  relate  as  much  to  general  literature  as  to  the 
annals  of  the  war.     No  articles  of  wider  or  more  intense  interest  have  ever  appeared  in  The  Century. 

Short  Illustrated  StOrieS. —  The  Century  is  now  able  to  present  a  greater  variety  of 
works  of  American  fiction  than  ever  before.  Besides  the  serials  a  number  of  very  striking  short  illus- 
trated stories  will  appear  during  the  summer. 

The  YoSemite. —  During  the  summer,  as  preliminary  to  the  series  on  "The  Gold  Hunters  of  Cali- 
fornia," The  Century  will  have  an  illustrated  paper  of  striking  interest  on  the  Yosemite  Valley, 
including  new  views  of  particular  beauty.  The  widespread  interest  in  the  efforts  now  being  made  to 
secure  a  better  management  for  the  Valley,  and,  if  practicable,  to  add  to  its  limits  contiguous  territory 
of  great  attractiveness,  will  be  reflected  in  a  paper  by  John  Muir,  the  California  naturalist,  on  "The 
Proposed  Extension  of  the  Yosemite,"  which  will  also  be  illustrated. 

Jefferson's  Autobiography  — will  be  continued  in  the  new  volume,  also  Mrs.  Barr's 
"Friend  Olivia";  there  will  be  a  profusion  of  illustrated  short  stories;  more  of  La  Farge's  "Letters 
from  Japan";  some  of  the  finest  of  Cole's  engravings  after  the  Old  Masters;  Kennan's  concluding 
papers,  and  numerous  papers  "appropriate  to  the  season." 

THE  CENTURY  CO.,  33  East  17th  Street,  New  York. 


THE   BUTCHER. 

"The  Casting  Away  of  Mrs.  Leeks  and  Mrs.  Aleshine,"  cloth, 
75  cents;  "The  Dusantes,"  a  sequel  to  the  last-named  book, 
cloth,  75  cents.  The  last  two  books  may  be  had  also  in  "  The 
Century  Series,"  paper  covers,  price,  50  cents.  Any  of  the 
above  may  be  purchased  of  booksellers,  or  will  be  sent  post- 
paid, to  any  address,  upon  receipt  of  price  by  the  publishers, 

THE    CENTURY   CO. 

33  East  17th  Street,  New  York. 


THE"MERRY  CHANTER," 

BY   FRANK    R.  STOCKTON. 

This  most  recent  of  Mr.  Stockton's  charming  stories  —  lately 
published  as  a  serial  in  The  Century  Magazine  —  is  now 
to  be  issued  in  book  form,  making  a  handsome  volume  of  about 
200  pages,  illustrated  by  Charles  Dana  Gibson.  The  story, 
which  derives  its  title  from  a  ship  of  that  name  on  board  which 
the  greater  part  of  the  action  occurs,  is  written  with  all  of  Mr. 
Stockton's  characteristic  humor,  brimming  with  amusing  char- 
acters and  absurd  situations.  The  book  will  be  issued  in  May 
as  an  addition  to  "  The  Century  Series  "  of  paper-covered 
books.  Price,  in  this  form,  50  cents ;  or  in  substantial  cloth 
binding,  $1.00.  The  Century  Co.  publish  also  the  following 
novels  by  Mr.  Stockton:  "The 
Hundredth  Man,"cloth,$  1.50; 


THE       MERRY  CHANTER. 


BATTLES 

AND 

LEADERS 

OF  THE 

CIVILVAP. 


The  interest  awakened  by  the  "War  Papers  "in 
The  Century  Magazine  seems  to  have  been 
transferred  to  "The  Century  War  Book,"  for,  not- 
withstanding that  50,000  sets  have  been  already 
subscribed  for,  the  work  is  still  in  great  demand. 
The  articles  published  in  the  magazine,  however, 
constitute  only  a  little  more  than  a  third  of  the  work  ; 
that  is  to  say,  nearly  two- thirds  of  the  material 
contained  in  "The  War  Book"  is  entirely  new. 

The  completed  work  forms  a  reliable  and  wonder- 
fully fascinating  history  of  the  Civil  War,  written  by 
men  —  Union  and  Confederate — who  planned  and 
fought  its  battles.  The  editors,  Robert  Underwood 
Johnson  and  Clarence  Clough  Buel,  have  provided 
much  additional  and  valuable  material  in  the  shape  of  tables  of  events  leading  up  to 
the  war  ;  lists  of  officers  of  the  two  governments  ;  elaborate  rosters  of  opposing  forces  in 
each  battle,  giving  the  names  of  officers  engaged  on  each  side;  and  the  most  authen- 
tic official  information  as  to  the  strength  of  the  contending  armies  and  their  losses, 
besides  cross  references  and  valuable  explanatory  notes  to  text  and  pictures.  The 
index  contains  over  40,000  items. 

The  illustrations  number  seventee7i  hundred,  and  include  a  fine  collection  of  portraits, 
battle-scenes,  maps,  diagrams,  etc.,  made  under  the  supervision  of  The  Century 
Art  Department. 

More  than  $200,000  has  been  spent  in  the  preparation  of  this  work,  which  is 
published  complete  in  four  volumes,  and  is  sold  only  by  subscription.      Address 


THE    CENTURY    CO.,   33   East   17th  Street,  New  York. 


/ 


T.  NICHOLAS,"  says  a  recent  notice,  "is  a  serial  possessing  every 
element  to  attract  the  young:  choice  stories,  excellent  rhymes,  enlivening  sketches,  funny 
specialties,  interesting  histories,  absorbing  biographies,  and  these  all  set  off  with  the 
most  attractive  pictures,  original  in  designs  and  the  perfection  of  the  graver's  art." 
Would  you  like  to  see  a  copy  ?  The  May  number  is  ready,  and  may  be  purchased  at 
any  book-shop  or  news-stand  for  25  cents. 

"The  Romance  of  Dollard,"  a  novel  by  Mary  Hartwell  Catherwood,  richly 
illustrated  by  Henry  Sandham.  The  exploit  which  forms  the  basis  of  the  plot  is  said  by  Francis 
Parkman,  the  historian,  to  be  "one  of  the  most  notable  feats  of  arms  in  American  annals." 
Price,  in  cloth  binding,   $1.25. 

"  The  Two  Runaways,  and  Other  Stories,"  by  Harry  Stillwell  Edwards, 
a  collection  of  negro  tales  by  one  of  our  most  popular  magazine  writers.  Attractively  bound  in 
cloth,  with  many  full-page  illustrations  by  E.  W.  Kemble.     Price,  in  cloth,  $1.50. 

"The  Graysons :  A  Story  of  Illinois,"  by  Edward  Eggleston,  author  of  "The 
Hoosier  Schoolmaster."    Illustrated.    Price,  in  cloth  binding,  $1.50. 

"Ranch  Life  and  the  Hunting-Trail,"  by  Theodore  Roosevelt;  with  illus- 
trations by  Frederic  Remington.  Both  author  and  artist  are  practical  ranchmen,  and  their  united 
labors  form  an  intensely  interesting  book  devoted  to  ranching  and  hunting  in  the  far  West.  Quarto, 
gilt  edges,  in  box,  $5.00. 

"Sport  with  Rod  and  Gun  in  American  Woods  and  Waters,"  edited  by  Alfred 
M.  Mayer.  Large  quarto  volume,  richly  illustrated.  In  one  volume,  $4.00;  edition  de  luxe,  two 
volumes,  cloth,  $12.00;   embossed  leather,  $18.00. 

The  "Poems  of  Richard  Watson  Gilder,"  editor  of  THE  CENTURY  MAGAZINE,  are 
published  by  The  Century  Co.,  in  three  dainty  volumes,  costing  for  the  set,  $2.50  in  cloth,  and  $1.20 
in  paper.  The  New  York  Herald  says,  "  The  genius  of  Mr.  Gilder  may  be  said  to  rest  upon  an  exquisite 
appreciation  of  nature  in  her  most  delicate  moods,  with  a  complete  enjoyment  and  understanding  of 
nature  in  all  seasons." 

"  Poems  by  Irwin  Russell,"  with  an  introduction  by  Joel  Chandler  Harris.  A 
collection  of  the  negro  dialect  poems  and  other  verse  of  the  young  Southerner,  the  late  Irwin  Russell. 
Many  of  these  poems,  like  "Christmas  Night  in  the  Quarters,"  have  a  world-wide  fame.     In  cloth,  $1.00. 

A  splendid  book  for  boys  and  girls  is  "Daddy  Jake,  the  Runaway,  and  Short 
Stories  told  After  Dark,"  by  Joel  Chandler  Harris,  with  illustrations  by  E.  W.  Kemble.  The 
comical  adventures  of  "Brer  Rabbit"  and  his  friends,  as  told  by  "Uncle  Remus,"  and  Kemble's 
amusing  pictures,  have  strong  attractions  for  the  young  folks.  The  book  is  published  by  The 
Century  Co.,  and  is  now  in  its  second  edition.     Price,  in  substantial  binding,  $1.50. 

"  The  Boys'  Book  of  Sports,"  a  collection  of  interesting  and  instructive  papers  for 
boys,  by  various  experts  on  subjects  connected  with  out-of-door  life.  Edited  by  Maurice  Thompson. 
Price,  cloth  bound,  $2.00. 

"The  Brownies:  Their  Book,"  by  Palmer  Cox.  A  collection  of  amusing  poems 
and  pictures  for  children.  The  continuous  sale  of  the  "  Brownie  Book  "  throughout  the  past  year,  and 
the  present  great  demand  from  the  trade,  prove  that  the  volume  has  become  standard.  Price,  in 
illuminated  covers,  $1.50. 

"  St.  Nicholas  Songs,"  a  book  of  original  music  by  prominent  American  and 
English  composers.  Contains  200  pages  the  size  of  sheet  music,  with  112  songs  and  140  illustrations. 
Prices,  in  cloth  binding,  leather  back,  illuminated  linings,  $2.00;  in  full  leather,  semi-flexible,  $3.50. 
These  songs  are  not  sold  separately . 

"  Baby  World,"  stories,  rhymes  and  pictures  for  very  little  folks.  Compiled  from 
St.  Nicholas  by  Mary  Mapes  Dodge.     Price,  in  cloth  binding,  $1.25  ;  boards,  $1.00. 

Any  of  the  above-mentioned  books  will  be  sent  by  the  publishers,  post-paid,  to 
any  address,  upon  receipt  of  price.      Address 

THE  CENTURY  CO., -33  East  17th  Street,  New  York. 


THE  MASTER  OF  THE  MAGICIANS. 

A  Novel,  collaborated  by  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps  and  Herbert  D.  Ward.     i6mo,  $1.25. 

"  The  Master  of  the  Magicians11  is  a  novel  dealing  with  court  life  in  Babylon  six  hundred  years 
before  Christ.  The  hero  is  the  prophet  Daniel,  and  the  king  and  the  queen  figure  in  the  novel.  Astrology 
and  divination,  which  were  characteristic  features  of  the  times;  the  wonderful  city,  its  fortifications  and 
sumptuous  wealth  ;  its  high  learning  and  low  morals ;  its  Jewish  captives,  temples  and  palaces  j  the 
famous  Hanging  Garden,  the  royal  lion  hunt, — these  form  the  scenery  and  accompaniments  of  a  striking 
love  story.  The  high  spiritual  purpose  of  the  Bible  narrative  is  retained  throughout  the  great  variety 
of  incident  and  of  human  interest.  It  may  be  assumed  that  the  historical  element  of  the  novel,  with  the 
research  required  to  give  it  at  once  accuracy  and  life,  should  be  credited  to  Mr.  Ward.  Readers  of  Miss 
Phelps 's  remarkable  stories  do  not  need  to  be  told  what  elements  of  power,  insight  and  spiritual  vitality 
she  contributes. 


A  WAIF  OF  THE  PLAINS. 

A  Story  by  Bret  Harte.     i8mo,  $1.00. 

This  story  illustrates  the  remark  of  a  critic :  "  Of  all 
American  writers  of  fiction,  Mr.  Harte  is  by  all  odds 
the  master  of  the  short  story.  Crisp,  witty  and  dramatic, 
his  tales  have  a  knack  of  holding  the  attention."  "  No 
other  living  writer  can  so  perfectly  present  a  character 
to  the  eye  in  a  paragraph." 


THE  MISTRESS  OF  BEECH   KNOLL. 

A  Novel  by  Clara  Louise  Burnham,  author  of  "Next 
Door,"  "Young  Maids  and  Old,"  "A  Sane  Lunatic," 
etc.     i6mo,  $1.25. 

This  is  a  love  story  without  disguise.  It  does  not 
purport  to  be  a  philosophy  of  love,  but  represents  the 
noble  passion  itself;  and  readers  will  find  the  story 
very  engaging. 


ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL  HISTORY  OF  NEW  ENGLAND. 

By  William  B.  Weeden.     2  vols.,  crown  8vo,  $4.50. 

Mr.  Weeden  of  Providence,  the  well-known  manufacturer  and  writer  on  econo7nic  subjects,  has  pro- 
duced a  work  of  unusual  value.  It  covers  a  new  field  of  inquiry,  one  which  now  possesses  a  greater 
degree  of  interest  than  ever  before  for  students  of  social  and  industrial  questions.  It  is  not  a  general 
history  of  New  England,  and  touches  its  political  history  only  as  this  affects  or  is  affected  by  its  social 
and  economic  interests.  But  the  peculiar  elements  in  the  settlement,  colonization,  and  development  of 
New  England  give  a  somewhat  unique  character  to  these  interests.  Mr.  Weeden  has  studied  this  sub- 
ject very  thoroughly,  and  has  such  a  mastery  of  the  principles  involved  in  it  that  these  two  volumes  are 
of  great  value,  and  they  are  written  with  notable  vigor  of  narration  and  in  an  adtnirable  style. 


JACK  HORNER. 

A  Novel.     By  Mary  S.  Tiernan,  author  of  "  Homo- 

selle."     i6mo,  $1.25. 

A  story  of  the  time  of  the  War  for  the  Union.  Love 
and  strategy  combine  to  make  it  thoroughly  interest- 
ing. 


THE  STORY  OF  MARGARET  KENT. 

By  Ellen  Olney  Kirk.     New  Edition.    i6mo,  cloth, 
price  reduced  to  $1.25 ;  paper,  50  cents. 
An  attractive,  every  way  desirable  edition  of  a  novel 

which  has  enjoyed  a  remarkable  popularity. 


THE  PHYSICAL  PROPERTIES  OF  GASES. 

Vol.  II.  of  the  Riverside  Science  Series.      By  A.  L.  Kimball  of  Johns  Hopkins  University.      i6mo, 
$1.25. 

This  book  does  not  claim  to  be  an  exhaustive  treatise  on  gases,  but  an  accurate  and  readable  account  of  all 
that  has  been  discovered  concerning  them.  Like  "A  Century  of  Electricity,"  while  strictly  scientific  in  its  state- 
ments, it  is  intended  not  for  technical  students  but  for  all  intelligent  readers. 


*#*  For  sale  by  all  Booksellers.     Sent  by  mail,  post-paid,  on  receipt  of  price,  by  the  Publishers, 

HOUGHTON,   MIFFLIN   AND    COMPANY, 

4   Park   St.   Boston;    11    East  17th   St.    New-York. 


SCRIBNER  &  WELFORD'S  NEW  BOOKS. 


ROBERT    BROWNING- ESSAYS   AND  THOUGHTS. 

By  John  T.  Nettleship.     New  edition,  revised  and  enlarged,  crown  8vo,  cloth,  $2.25. 

This  volume,  under  the  title  "  Essays  on  Robert  Browning's  Poetry,"  first  published  in  1868,  was  admittedly 
the  means  of  bringing  Mr.  Browning's  works  into  popular  favor.  Since  its  publication  the  Browning  cult  has  become 
so  widespread  that  the  book  is  in  great  demand.  On  the  rare  occasions  that  it  occurs  for  sale  it  brings  prices  varying 
from  one  to  two  guineas.     The  new  edition  will  be  considerably  enlarged  ;  by  one-third  at  least. 

IBSEN'S    PROSE    DRAMAS. 

Authorized  translation.     Edited  by  William  Archer.     i2mo  volumes.     Each,  $1.25. 

Volume  I.  now  ready,  containing  Biographical  Introduction,  Portrait,  A  Doll's  House,  The  League  of  Youth,  and 
The  Pillars  of  Society.     Other  volumes  to  follow  shortly. 

This  series  is  published  by  arrangement  with  the  author,  and  is  the  first  uniform  and  authoritative  edition  in  English 
of  these  noted  and  much-discussed  dramas. 

THE    MARRIAGES    OF   THE    BOURBONS. 

By  Captain  the  Hon.  D.  Bingham.     With  Illustrations.     2  vols,  8vo,  $7.50. 

"Captain  Bingham  is  an  anecdotal  master  in  history  and  biography,  and  has  made  a  special  study  of  the  dynastic  annals  of  France,  and 
of  those  memoirs  which  fill  so  large  a  space  in  French  literature,  and  throw  so  vivid  but  so  dubious  a  light  on  the  world  of  ante-chambers 
and  boudoirs.     To  his  favorite  task  he  brings  the  curiosity  of  a  courtier  and  the  skill  of  a  journalist." — Lo7idon  Daily  News. 


The  Early  Diary  of  Frances  Burney, 
1768-1778. 

With  a  selection  from  her  Correspondence  and  from  the 
Journals  of  her  Sisters  Susan  and  Charlotte  Bur- 
ney. Edited  by  Annie  Raine  Ellis.  2  vols.,  demy 
8vo,  $12.00. 

Days  with  Industrials: 

Adventures  and  Experiences  among  Curious  Industries. 
By  Alexander  H.  Japp,  LL.  D.,  F.  R.  S.  E.,  Author 
of  "  Industrial  Curiosities,"  "  Golden  Lives,"  etc.,  etc. 
Crown  8vo,  cloth,  $2.25. 

Hazell's   Annual,  1890. 

A  Cyclopaedic  Record  of  Men  and  Topics  of  the  Day. 
Rewritten  to  date.  Contains  over  3500  original  articles 
by  eminent  specialists  on  every  question  now  before  the 
public.  Edited  by  E.  D.  Price,  F.  G.  S.  i2mo,  cloth, 
$1.50. 


Hayti;  or,  the  Black   Republic. 

By  Sir  Spenser  St.  John,  K.  C.  M.  G.,  formerly  Her 
Majesty's  Minister-Resident  and  Consul-General  in 
Hayti,  now  Her  Majesty's  Special  Envoy  to  Mexico. 
New  edition.  Revised,  with  a  Map,  large  crown  8vo, 
$2.50. 

Shakespeare    Sonnets. 

Edited,  with  Notes  and  Introduction  by  Thomas  Tyler 
of  the  University  of  London,  Editor  of  the  Facsimile 
Edition  of  Shakespeare  Sonnets.  8vo,  cloth,  with  Por- 
traits, $3.00. 

Fontainebleau. 

Fifteen  Photogravures  after  the  Pictures  by  J.  Haynes- 
Williams.  With  an  Introduction  by  "Frederick 
Wedmore.  Limited  edition  of  150  copies  for  America. 
4to,  cloth,  net,  $15.00. 


THE   UNCOLLECTED   WRITINGS    OF   THOMAS    DE    QUINCEY. 

With  a  Preface  and  Annotations  by  James  Hogg.     2  vols.,  i2mo,  $3.50. 

CONTENTS:  Greek  Literature  —  Moral  Effects  of  Revolutions — •  Malthusian  Doctrine  of  Population  —  Ricardo's 
Political  Economy  —  Abstract  of  Swedenborgianism  —  Storms  in  English  History  —  The  English  in  India — On  Novels 
—  The  Lake  Dialect  —  The  English  in  China — Shakespeare's  Text  —  Suetonius  Unravelled  —  How  to  Write  English  — 
Casuistry  of  Duelling — The  Love  Charm  —  Last  Will  and  Testament  —  Anglo-German  Dictionaries,  etc.,  etc. 

%*  These  Writings  are  not  included  in  any  other  Edition  of  this  author. 

Select   Essays    of  Thomas    de    Quincey,    Narrative    and    Imaginative. 

Edited  and  Annotated  by  Prof.  David  Masson.     2  vols.,  crown  8vo,  cloth,  $3.00. 

CONTENTS:  On  Murder  Considered  as  One  of  the  Fine  Arts  —  Early  Memorials  of  Grasmere — Revolt  of  the 
Tartars — The  Spanish  Military  Nun  —  The  English  Mail-Coach — Suspiria  de  Profundis,  being  a  sequel  to  the  "  Con- 
fessions of  an  Opium  Eater." 

AT  GREATLY  LOWERED  PRICES. 

BAEDEKER'S  EUROPEAN  GUIDE  BOOKS. 

Latest  Editions  always  on  hand.  Illustrated  with  numerous  Maps,  Plans,  Panoramas  and  Views.  Unquestionably 
the  very  best  Guides  published. 

%*  There  being  no  duty  to  pay  on  carrying  these  Guides  to  Europe,  travelers  will  find  it  very  advantageous  to  pro- 
cure them  before  starting.  

*1*  The  above  books  sent  upon  receipt  of  advertised  price.  Catalogues  0/  our  regular  stock  will  be  mailed,  if  desired,  to  those 
interested. 

SCRIBNER   &  WELFORD,  743-745    Broadway,  New- York. 


LITTLE  SAINT  ELIZABETH, 


AND  OTHER  STORIES.    By  Frances  Hodgson  Burnett.   With  12  illustrations  by  R.  B.  Birch.    Sq.  8vo,  $1.50. 

Susan  Coolidge  writes :  "The  pretty  tale  from  which  the  book  borrows  its  name  has  for  its  heroine  a  little  French 
girl  brought  up  in  an  old  chateau  in  Normandy,  by  an  aunt,  who  is  a  recluse  and  devote.  A  child  of  this  type,  trans- 
planted suddenly  while  still  in  childhood  to  the  realistic  atmosphere  of  prosperous  New- York,  must  inevitably  have  much 
to  suffer.  She  is  puzzled  ;  she  is  lonely  ;  she  has  no  one  to  direct  her  conscience.  The  quaint  little  figure,  blindly  try- 
ing to  guess  the  riddle  of  duty  under  these  unfamiliar  conditions,  is  pathetic,  and  Mrs.  Burnett  touches  it  in  with  delicate 
strokes.  The  second  story  is  full  of  good  old  fairy-land  flavor,  with  the  addition  of  a  delicious  spice  of  modern  fun  and 
humor.  The  third  story,  which  is  called  The  Proud  Little  Grain  of  Wheat,  is  even  more  delightful  in  its  way.  Behind 
the  White  Brick,  also  a  story  of  dreamland  or  fairy  character,  closes  the  book,  which  is  prettily  illustrated  by  Birch." 

"  Elizabeth  is  as  charming  a  girl  creation  as  Mrs.  Burnett's  boy 
hero  —  Little  Lord  Fauntleroy."  —  London  Graphic. 


"  Little  Saint  Elizabeth  is  one  of  the  most  winning  of  Mrs.  Bur- 
nett's child  heroines." — London  Athenceum. 

Uniform  with  the  above. — "  Little  Lord  Fauntleroy."    Illustrated  by  R.  B.  Birch.    Square  8vo,  $2.00.    "  Sara  Crewe." 
Illustrated  by  R.  B.  Birch.     Square  8vo,  $1.00. 


Expiation 


By  Octave    Thanet.      Illustrated  by  A.    B.   Frost. 
i2mo,  cloth,  $1.00;  paper,  50  cents. 

The  scene  of  this  story  is  Arkansas  in  the  last  year  of  the  Civil 
War,  when  the  country  was  infested  with  plundering  and  murder- 
ous "graybacks."  The  character  portraiture  and  the  pictures  of 
the  adventurous  life  of  the  time  are  given  with  strength  and  vivid- 
ness. The  movement  of  the  story  is  rapid,  and  the  reader's  interest 
is  maintained  throughout. 


The  Lawton  Girl. 

By  Harold  Frederic.     i2mo,  cloth,  $1.25;  paper,  50 
cents. 

A  powerful  piece  of  romantic  realism,  characterizing  vividly  not 
only  the  personages  of  the  novel,  but  the  entire  social  life  of  the 
town  in  which  the  scene  is  laid.  The  story  has  a  very  strong  human 
and  pathetic  side,  and  the  trials,  struggles  and  accomplishments  of 
"The  Lawton  Girl"  are  depicted  with  much  sympathy  and  deli- 
cacy of  touch. 


THREE  FAMOUS  FRENCH  WOMEN. 

THE  WIFE  OF  THE  FIRST  CONSUL. 

Translated  from  the  French  of  Imbert  de  Saint-Amand,  by  T.  S.  Perry.     With  portrait,  i2mo,  $1  25. 

From  the  French  of  the  same  Author. 

Marie  Antoinette  and   the  End  of  the  Ancient  Re-    I    The  Happy  Days  of  the  Empress  Marie  Louise.     With 
gime.     With  portrait.     i2mo.     hi  press.  \        portrait.     i2mo.     In  press. 

Each  volume  has  for  its  nucleus  some  portion  of  the  life  of  one  of  the  three  eminent  women  who  presided  over  the 
French  court,  either  at  Versailles  or  the  Tuileries,  immediately  before,  during  and  after  the  revolutionary  epoch.  But 
though  thus  largely  biographical,  the  volumes  are  equally  pictures  of  the  times  they  describe.  Probably  no  limes  in  any 
country  were  ever  so  picturesque,  so  crowded  with  events,  and  so  peopled  with  striking  characters,  and  M.  Imbert  de 
Saint-Amand  conveys  an  impression  of  them  unrivalled  for  reality  and  vivacity. 


The  Nature  and  Method  of 
Revelation. 

By  G.  P.  Fisher,  D.  D.     i2mo,  $1.25. 

An  important  contribution  to  Christian  evidences,  consisting  of 
nine  essays  exhibiting  the  present  state  of  critical  discussion  respect- 
ing the  origin  and  date  of  the  Gospels  and  setting  forth  the  main 
points  of  evidence  for  the  genuineness  and  credibility  of  the  Gospels. 


The  Philosophy  of  Preaching. 

By  Rev.  A.  J.  F.  Behrends.     i2mo,  $1.00. 

The  author  deals  with  the  fundamental  questions  as  to  the  end  of 
all  preaching,  and  emphasizes  the  universal  elements  of  all  effective 
discourse.  The  volume  is  characterized  by  great  breadth  of  view 
and  profound  personal  conviction. 


PERSONAL  CREEDS; 


or,  How  to  Form  a  Working-Theory  of  Life.     By  Newman  Smyth,  D.  D.     i2mo,  cloth,  $1.00  ;  paper,  50  cents. 


The   book  aims   to   point   out  the   value,  necessity   and 
doctrinal,  creed,  which  shall  bring  one  into  closer  touch  with 
that  makes  for  righteousness  in  daily  life  and  conduct.     The 
to  every  reader. 

The  Broughton  House- 

By  Bliss  Perry.    i2mo,  $1.25. 

An  artistic  and  extraordinarily  vivid  picture  of  a  New  England 
town  in  summer,  with  close,  shrewd,  sympathetic  and  wonderfully 
observant  studies  of  its  typical  personages  —  the  quartette  of  persons 
at  the  hotel,  "The  Broughton  House,"  with  whom  the  story  is 
chiefly  occupied,  viewed  against  the  background  of  the  villagers 
and  the  natural  environment. 

BrightSkiesandDarkShadows. 

By  Rev.  Henry  M.  Field,  D.  D.    8vo,  $1.50. 

A  charming  narrative  of  the  author's  recent  journeyings  in  the 
Southern  States,  not  only  descriptive  and  pleasantly  historical  in  its 
pictures,  but  containing  much  that  is  instructive  and  suggestive  in 
its  examination  of  social  and  political  problems. 


use  of  a  personal  and  individual,  as  distinguished  from  a 
the  spirit  of  Christ's  teaching,  and  supply  a  working  force 
author's  earnestness  and  eloquence  bring  his  words  home 

Day  and  Night  Stories. 

By  T.  R.  Sullivan.    121110,  cloth,  $1.00;  paper, 50  cents. 

A  remarkably  interesting  collection,  comprising  some  of  the  most 
artistic  stories  of  this  popular  author.  The  volume  includes  "The 
Lost  Rembrandt,"  "Out  of  New  England  Granite,"  "Cordon," 
"The  Tincture  of  Success,"  "  Maestro  Ambrogio,"  and  "Through 
the  Gate  of  Dreams."  Mr.  Sullivan's  style  is  clear  and  clean-cut: 
his  characters  are  genuine  and  observed. 

English  Lands,  Letters  &  Kings. 

By  Donald  G.   Mitchell.     Vol.  I.  — Celt  to  Tudor. 
i2mo,  $1.50.   Vol.  II. — Elizabeth  to  Anne.  121110,  $1.50. 

"  The  whole  book  is  characterized  by  a  graceful  daintiness  that 
removes  the  study  of  English  literature  from  drudgery  and  makes 
it  a  charming  recreation." — Boston  Journal. 


Charles  Scribner's  Sons,  743-745  Broadway,  New- York. 


SCIENCE  AND  TRAVEL. 


THREE    NOTABLE     VOLUMES. 


A  NATURALIST'S  VOYAGE  ROUND  THE 

WORLD. 

JOURNAL  OF  RESEARCHES  INTO  THE  NATURAL  HISTORY  AND  GEOLOGY  OF  THE 
COUNTRIES  VISITED  DURING  THE  VOYAGE  ROUND  THE  WORLD  OF  H.  M.  S. 
"  BEAGLE."  By  Charles  Darwin.  New  illustrated  edition.  With  Maps  and  ioo  Views  of 
the  places  visited  and  described,  chiefly  from  sketches  taken  on  the  spot,  by  Robert  Taylor 
Pritchett.     One  vol.,  8vo.     Cloth,  $5.00. 

The  object  of  this  edition  is  to  aid  the  author's  descriptions  by  actual  representations  of  the  most  interesting  places 
and  objects  of  natural  history  referred  to  in  them.  This  has  been  effected  by  securing  the  services  of  an  artist  who  has 
visited  the  countries  which  Darwin  describes.  Most  of  the  views  are  from  sketches  made  on  the  spot  by  Mr.  Pritchett 
(well  known  by  his  connection  with  the  voyages  of  the  Sunbeam  and  Wanderer),  with  Mr.  Darwin's  book  by  his  side. 

"  One  of  the  most  interesting  narratives  of  voyaging  that  has  fallen  to  our  lot  to  take  up,  and  one  which  must  always 
occupy  a  distinguished  place  in  the  history  of  scientific  navigation." — Quarterly  Review. 


THE  ICE  AGE  IN  NORTH  AMERICA, 

AND  ITS  BEARINGS  UPON  THE  ANTIQUITY  OF  MAN.  By  G.  Frederick  Wright, 
D.  D.,  LL.  D.,  F.  G.  S.  A.,  Professor  in  Oberlin  Theological  Seminary;  Assistant  on  the  United 
States  Geological  Survey.  With  an  Appendix  on  THE  PROBABLE  CAUSE  OF  GLACIA- 
TION,  by  Warren  Upham,  F.  G.  S.  A.,  Assistant  on  the  Geological  Surveys  of  New  Hamp- 
shire, Minnesota  and  the  United  States.  With  147  Maps  and  Illustrations.  One  vol.,  8vo. 
Second  edition.     Cloth,  $5.00. 

The  numerous  maps  accompanying  the  text  have  been  compiled  from  the  latest  data.  The  illustrations  are  more 
ample  than  have  ever  before  been  applied  to  the  subject,  being  mostly  reproductions  of  photographs  taken  by  various 
members  of  the  United  States  Geological  Survey  in  the  course  of  the  past  ten  years,  many  of  them  by  the  author  himself. 

"  The  special  study  which  Dr.  Wright  has  made  of  this  era,  the  peculiar  facilities  which  he  has  enjoyed  as  an  assistant 
in  the  United  States  Geological  Survey,  and  the  habit  of  clear  exposition  which  a  professor  in  a  seminary  like  that  of 
Oberlin  naturally  acquires,  have  enabled  him  to  produce  a  work  worthy  of  the  importance  and  interest  of  his  subject.  It 
is  not  always,  or  indeed  often,  that  a  work  of  pure  science  c.an  be  made  both  instructive  and  attractive  to  readers  not 
familiar  with  the  principles  of  the  science  involved.  In  this  instance,  however,  the  subject  naturally  lends  itself  to  what 
may  be  styled  a  popular  treatment ;  and  the  author  has  aided  his  explanations  by  a  profusion  of  maps  and  pictures." — 
The  Critic. 


AROUND  AND  ABOUT  SOUTH  AMERICA: 

TWENTY  MONTHS  OF  QUEST  AND  QUERY.  By  Frank  Vincent,  author  of  "  The  Land  of 
the  White  Elephant,"  "  Through  and  Through  the  Tropics,"  etc.  With  Maps,  Plans  and  54  full- 
page  Illustrations.     Cloth,  $5.00. 

OPINIONS  OF  DISTINGUISHED  GENTLEMEN  : 

"  I  have  read  it  with  great  pleasure.  It  is  really  the  only  clear  view  of  life  in  South  America,  as  it  is  to-day,  that  I 
know  of."— Hon.  Chauncey  M.  Depew. 

"  A  valuable  contribution  to  our  knowledge  of  those  countries,  growing  in  importance  and  interest  to  us." — Hon. 
William  M.  Evarts. 

"  A  brief  taste  of  its  flavor  assures  me  that  its  perusal  will  afford  a  rich  repast  of  edification  and  entertainment.  The 
name  of  the  caterer  guarantees  this." — Benson  J.  LossiNG. 

"A  beautiful  and  very  interesting  volume." — Senor  Don  J.  M.  P.  Caamano,  Minister  of  Ecuador  to  the  United 
States.  

D.  APPLETON  &  CO.  Publishers,  I,  3  &  5  Bond  St.  New-York. 


"  Infinite  Riches  in  a  Little  Room." 

CasselPs  Pocket  Guide  to 
Europe  for  1890. 

Planned  by  E.  C.  Stedman,  of  New  York;  compiled  by 
Edward  King,  of  Paris  ;  revised  by  M.  F.  Sweetser, 
of  Boston,     i  vol.,  leather  binding,  price,  $1.50. 
"  It  is  accurate,  its  maps  are  clear  and  legible,  and  its  information 
full  and  exact." — Boston  Transcript. 

"  Its  handy  form,  large  type,  frequent  maps  (notfolding)  and  flexi- 
ble binding  are  among  its  meritorious  points." — Nation,  N.  Y. 
"The  best  of  the  kind  published." — Bulletin,  Phila. 


" A    STORY  OF  REAL   LIFE." 

Pactolus  Prime. 


A  Novel.    By  Albion  W.  Tourgee, 

Author  of  "A  Fool's  Errand,''  "Figs  and  Thistles," 
"Bricks  Without  Straw,"  etc.,  etc.  1  vol.,  i2mo,  new 
and  unique  binding,  $1.00. 

This  is  perhaps  in  all  respects  the  most  unique,  fascinating,  irre- 
sistible, and  yet  scathing  and  profound,  of  all  Judge  Tourgee's 
works.  It  cuts  across  American  civilization  in  a  new  place,  with  a 
new  knife,  and  will  make  some  people  smart  who  never  thought  of 
being  called  to  answer  such  accusation.  Hardly  anything  this 
author  has  written  is  destined  to  have  so  wide  an  audience. 


"  They  bristle  with  thought  and  sparkle  with  wit." 

ORATIONS  AND  AFTER-DINNER  SPEECHES  OF 

CHAUNCEY  M.  DEPEW. 


One  octavo  volume,  extra  cloth,  with  portrait.     Price,  $2.50. 

EDITION  DE  LUXE. 

Price,  $6.00. 


Autograph  Edition, 
signed  by  the  author. 


Limited  to  one  hundred  (100)  numbered  copies 
With  two  portraits,  and  bound  in  half  leather. 


"  We  hail  this  as  the  first  volume  of  national  interest  and  impor- 
tance that  has  appeared  this  year." — St.  Louis  Republican. 

"  The  dainty  book  before  us  —  dainty  in  style  as  well  as  in  matter 
— is  full  of  good  things." — Detroit  Free  Press. 

"As  effervescent  as  champagne." — Boston  Transcript. 


Tin  Types, 


TAKEN  IN  THE  STREETS  OF  NEW  YORK. 

A  Series  of  Stories  and  Sketches  portraying  many  singular 
phases  of  Metropolitan  Life.  By  Lemuel  Ely  Quigg. 
With  fifty-three  illustrations  by  Harry  Beard.  1  vol., 
i2mo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  etc.,  $1.50. 

"They  are  of  the  soil,  racy;  and  they  possess  all  that  fascination 
that  goes  with  stories  of  life  in  a  great  city." 


"  This  handsome  volume  contains  fifty-two  of  Mr.  Depew's  public 
efforts,  and  what  a  broad  and  varied  field  they  cover.  .  .  .  We 
all  know  that  these  productions  are  not  spoiled  by  being  reproduced 
in  cold  type." — New-York  Tribune. 

"  Here  is  fun  and  physic  both,  and  a  book  which  should  be  in  flie 
library  of  every  intelligent  citizen." —  Utica  Herald. 

The  Pope  and  the  New  Era, 

Being  Letters  from  the  Vatican  in  1889.  By  William  T. 
Stead,  author  of  "The  Truth  About  Russia,"  late 
editor  of  the  Pall  Mall  Gazette  and  editor  and  founder  of 
The  Review  of  Reviews.     1  vol.,  i2mo,  $1.50. 

Mr.  Stead  says  in  his  introduction:  "There  is  much  in  these 
letters,  I  fear,  which  will  give  pain  and  offense  to  those  within  and 
those  without  the  Catholic  Church.  That,  however,  was  inevitable 
from  the  standpoint  which  I  occupy." 


New  Editions  at  Reduced  Price  of  the  Great  Success  of  1889, 

MARIE  BASHKIRTSEFF: 


The  Journal  of  a  Young  Artist.     Translated  by  Mary  J.  Serrano. 

We  issue  three  editions  of  this  charming  volume,  all  from  the  original  American  plates. 

I.  Author's  Edition.     One  volume,  8vo,  in  our  unique  style,  of  binding.     Gilt  top,  etc 
illustrations.     Price,  $1.50.     Reduced  from  $2.00.  ' 

II.  Paper  Edition.     One  volume,  i2mo,  with  portrait.     Price,  50  cents 
Sunshine  Series. 

III.  Cloth  Edition.     One  volume,  i2mo,  with  portrait  and  illustrations 


With  portrait  and 
This  edition  is  No.  42  of  CasselPs 
Cloth  extra.     Price,  $1.00. 


Jack  Gordon, 


Knight-Errant,  Gotham,  1883.  By  W.  C.  Hudson 
(Barclay  North),  author  of  "The  Diamond  Button," 
etc.     i2mo,  paper,  50  cents  ;  cloth,  75  cents. 


David  Todd: 


The  Romance  of  His  Life  and  Loving. 
By  David  Maclure.     i  vol.,  i2mo.    Paper,  50  cents  ; 
cloth,  75  cents. 


New  Edition  in  Paper,  50  Cents. 

The  People  I've  Smiled  With. 

RECOLLECTIONS  OF  A  MERRY  LITTLE  LIFE. 

By    Marshall    P.    Wilder.     With    portrait.     Paper 
covers,  50  cents  ;  fine  edition,    with  portraits,  cloth,  gilt 
top,  etc.,  $1.50. 
This  book  has  been  one  of  the  great  successes  of  the  past 

year.     At  the  reduced  price  of  50  cents  it  is  bound  to  have 

an  enormous  audience. 


CASSELL  PUBLISHING  COMPANY,  104  &  106  Fourth  Avenue,  New-York. 


May,  '90. 


HEROES    OF   THE    NATIONS. 

I.  NELSON  and  the  Naval  Supremacy  of 
England,  by  W.  Clark  Russell,  author  of 
"The  Wreck  of  the  Grosvenor,"  etc.  (Now  ready.) 
(Price,  $1.50,  $1-75  and  $3.50.) 

A  series  of  biographical  studies  of  the  lives  and 
work  of  certain  representative  historical  charac- 
ters, about  whom  have  gathered  the  great  tradi- 
tions of  the  Nations  to  which  they  belonged,  and 
who  have  been  accepted,  in  many  instances,  as 
types  of  the  several  National  ideals.  With  the 
life  of  each  typical  character  will  be  presented  a 
picture  of  the  National  conditions  surrounding 
him  during  his  career. 

The  narratives  are  the  work  of  writers  who  are 
recognized  authorities  on  their  several  subjects, 
and,  while  thoroughly  trustworthy  as  history,  will 
present  picturesque  and  dramatic  "stories"  of  the 
Men  and  of  the  events  connected  with  them. 

The  Series  will  be  under  the  editorial  super- 
vision of  Evelyn  Abbott,  M.  A.,  of  Balliol  College, 
and  the  volumes  will  be  issued  by  Messrs.  Put- 
nam simultaneously  in  New-York  and  London. 
The  volumes  are  beautifully  printed  in  large 
i2mo,  and  are  fully  illustrated,  selling,  in  dif- 
ferent styles,  for  $1.50,  $1.75  and  $3.50  per  vol- 
ume. The  "Nelson"  will  be  followed  by  "Peri- 
cles" by  Evelyn  Abbott,  and  "  Guslavus  Adol- 
phus"  by  C.  R.  L.  Fletcher.  A  full  prospectus 
sent  upon  application. 

English  Wayfaring  Life  in  the  Middle  Ages 

(Fourteenth  Century).  By  J.  J.  JUSSERAND. 
Translated  from  the  French  by  LUCY  Toulmin 
Smith.  New  and  cheaper  edition.  Octavo,  pp. 
451  ;   fully  illustrated,  $3.50. 

"We  can  heartily  recommend  this  book  as  one  of  the  pleasantest 
and  most  carefully  executed  pictures  of  a  side  of  English  medieval 
life  that  we  have  met  with  for  a  long  time." — Saturday  Review. 

The  Poetry  of  the  Anti-Jacobin.  Compris- 
ing the  celebrated  Political  and  Satirical  Poems, 
Parodies  and  Jeux  d'Esprit  of  Canning,  Frere, 
Wellesley,  Ellis,  Gifford,  Pitt  and  others.  With 
explanatory  notes,  biographical  and  historical 
notices,  complete  list  of  the  authors  and  an  index, 
together  with  a  number  of  the  prose  selections, 
including  the  papers  on  American  Affairs,  the 
personal  and  abusive  indexes,  etc.  Edited  by 
Charles  Edmunds.  Illustrated  from  the  original 
plates  by  GiLLRAY.  Limited  edition.  Crown 
octavo,  $2.50. 

The  Story  of  the  Barbary  Corsairs.      By 

Stanley  Lane  Poole,  author  of  "  The  Story  of 
Turkey,"  "The  Moors  in  Spain,"  etc.  With  the 
collaboration  of  Lieut.  J.  D.  Jerrold  Kelley,  U.  S. 
Navy.  (No.  XXVII  in  the  Story  of  the  Nations 
Series.)     i2mo,  illustrated,  $1.50. 

"  He  has  produced  a  volume  at  once  creditable  to  his  literary 
sense  and  his  historical  knowledge,  and  at  the  same  time  of  absorb- 
ing interest  and  value." — N.  Y.  Times. 

The  Story  of  Rnssia.  By  W.  R.  Morfill, 
of  Oriel  College,  Oxford.  (No.  XXVIII  in  the 
Story  of  the  Nations  Series.)  121110,  illustrated, 
$1.50. 

* \*List  of  Spring  amiouncements  sent  on  application. 

G.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS,   New-York. 


A.  C.  McCLDRG  &  CO'S  NEW  BOOKS. 


Russia :   Its  People  and  Its  Literature.     By 

Emilia   Pardo   Bazan.     Translated  from   the 
Spanish  by  Fanny  H.  Gardiner.     i2mo,  $1.25. 

This  remarkable  and  brilliant  work  was  originally  given  in  the 
form  of  essays  before  the  Spanish  Athenaeum  at  Madrid,  — a  body 
composed  of  the  foremost  authors  and  scholars  of  Spain.  The 
essays  received  such  hearty  recognition  that  they  were  soon  issued 
in  book  form ;  and  they  now  appear,  for  the  first  time,  in  an  Eng- 
lish translation.  _  The  work  is  one  that  must  challenge  attention  in 
any  country  for  its  deep  critical  insight,  wide  historical  knowledge, 
and  charming  style. 

A  Short  History  of  Mexico.  By  Arthur 
Howard  Noll.     i6mo,  $1.00. 

_  This  is  a  compact  work  covering  the  whole  ground  of  Mexican 
history  in  a  single  volume.  Beginning  with  the  earliest  Aztec  civ- 
ilization in  Mexico,  it  gives  an  epitome  of  all  that  is  clearly  known 
regarding  that  somewhat  cloudy  but  ever  fascinating  period  of  his- 
tory; sketches  rapidly  and  clearly  the  events  of  the  Spanish  con- 
quest; details  the  rise  and  fall  of  the  First  and  Second  Empires, 
culminating  in  the  death  of  Maximilian,  and  ends  with  Mexico  as 
a  Republic. 

Raphael ;  or,  Pages  of  the  Book  of  Life  at 
Twenty.  From  the  French  of  ALPHONSE  de 
Lamartine.  Laurel  Crowned  Tales.  i6mo, 
gilt  top,  $1.00. 

This  dreamy,  imaginative,  poetic  tale  has  long  been  known  as 
one  of  the  purest  gems  of  French  literature.  American  readers 
will  be  delighted  to  welcome  an  English  translation  of  "  Raphael  " 
in  this  most  fastidious  edition.  It  is  a  worthy  continuation  of  the 
series  which  contains  Johnson's  "  Rasselas "  and  Laboulaye's 
"  Abdallah." 

A  Foreign  Match.  By  Madame  Bigot 
(Mary  Healy).      i6mo,  $1.00. 

Mme.  Bigot  (Mary  Healy),  who  is  known  through  her  charming 
little  story,  "  A  Mere  Caprice,"  which,  when  written  in  French,  re- 
ceived the  high  honor  of  being  "crowned"  by  the  French 
Academy,  has  written  another  brilliant  short  story  with  the  title 
"A  Foreign  Match."  This  story,  like  the  former,  is  a  tale  of 
Parisian  life,  and  treats  of  the  perils  and  dangers  of  American  heir- 
esses abroad.  It  is  simple  in  construction,  is  easily  followed;  and 
abounds  in  brilliant  passages  and  dramatic  situations. 

A  Winter  Holiday  in  Summer  Lands.     By 

Julia  Newell  Jackson.     Ill'd.     i6mo,  $1.25. 

A  pleasantly  written  and  easily  read  short  book  of  travels.  The 
author,  with  a  small  party  of  friends,  made  a  winter  excursion  to 
Cuba,  thence  to  Mexico,  returning  overland.  Her  stay  in  Cuba 
and  Mexico  was  of  uncommon  interest,  and  the  descriptions  of  life 
and  society  in  these  romantic  places  are  given  in  a  delightful  vein, 
with  apt  feminine  touches  and  playful  wit. 

RECENT  BOOKS: 

THE  STORY  OF  TONTY :  An  Historical  Romance.  By 
Mary  Hartwell  Catherwood.  Illustrated  by  Enoch  Ward. 
i2mo,  227  pages,  $1.25. 

"  Tonty  is  a  vivid  series  of  fascinating  pictures,  and  the  charac- 
ters are  described  with  a  simplicity  and  force  that  indelibly  fix 
them.  It  is  a  stronger  book  than  'The  Romance  of  Dollard.'" 
— N.   Y.  Observer. 

FACT,  FANCY,  AND  FABLE:  A  Ready  Reference  Hand- 
book.     Compiled  by  Henry  F.  Reddall.      8vo,  half  leather, 
$3-5o. 
"It    could    hardly    be    too    highly    commended." — Traveller, 

Boston. 

OPENING  THE  OYSTER:  A  Story  of  Adventure.  By 
Charles  L.  Marsh.  Profusely  illustrated.  Large  i2mo, 
$1  75- 

ALEXIA.     By  Mary  Abbott.     i6mo,  75  cents. 

"Little  books  like  these  are  not  common  in  current  American 

literature." — Beacon,  Boston. 

For  sale  by  booksellers  generally,  or  will  be  sent, 
post-paid,  on  receipt  of  the  price  by  the  publishers, 

A.  C.  McCLURG  &  CO.,  Chicago. 


The  International  Cyclopedia. 


I  have  tested  it  in  many  ways,  such  as  have  been 
suggested  by  my  own  reading,  and  have  found  it  re- 
markably accurate. —  Edward  Everett  Hale,  D.  D. 


Officially 
adopted  for 
use  in  all 
the  schools  of 
this  city. 

—  Chicago 
Board  of 

Education. 


I  find  it  exactly  the  book  of  reference  best  suited  for 
family  use.  It  gives  both  sides  of  important  questions, 
and  decides  nothing. —  Howard  Crosby,  D.  D. 

Just  such 
a  work  as 
every  edu- 
cated man 
needs. 

B.  Hagar, 
Principal 


As  a  work 
of  reference 
in  our  public 
schools  it  has 
no  superior. 

D.  Howell, 
Supt.  of  Schools, \ 
Lansing,  Mich. 


Those  who  do  not  wish  to  buy  a  separate  biographical 
dictionary  will  find  the  fullest  list  of  names  in  con- 
temporary biography,  American  and  foreign,  in  the 
International. — Sunday-School  Times. 

SALESMEN  WANTED.       SOLD  FOR 


State  Normal 

School, 
Salem,  Mass. 

Is  used 
continually 
in  our  school. 
We  like  it 
very  much. 

Col.  Parker, 

—  Principal 
Cook  Co. 
\NormalSchool , 
Illinois. 

It    can    fittingly   be    called   a  working    cyclopedia, 
making  its  aid  felt  in  all  callings — in  the  minister's 
study,  lawyer's    office,   the    schoolroom,   library    and 
home. —  Chautauquan. 
CASH  OR  ON  EASY  PAYMENTS. 


DODD,  MEAD  &  COMPANY,  Sub'n  Dep't,  753  &  755  Broadway,  N.Y. 


WILLIAM  SCHAUS' 

Art  Galleries. 

Paintings  and  Water  Colors 

by  the  most  eminent  modern  masters. 

Finest  Etchings  and  Engravings, 

Art-Books, 

Artists'  Materials, 

Artistic  Framing. 

204  Fifth  Avenue  ( Madison  Square), 

New-York. 


High-Class  Etchings. — Just  published.  Free 
by  mail  for  10  cents  in  stamps,  our  new  descriptive 
catalogue  No.  7,  with  sixty-six  illustrations  of  the 
etchings.    FREDERICK  KEPPEL  &  CO. 

20  East  16th  St.  (Union  Square),  New-York. 

THE  AMERICAN  ARCHITECT, 

THE   OLDEST  AND   BEST 
Architectural    publication    in     the     country.      Richly    illustrated. 
Issued  weekly.     Send  stamp  for  specimen  copy  to  the  publishers. 
TICKNOK   &   COMPANY,  211  Tremout   St.  Boston. 


Authors  and  Publishers  should  get  the  prices 
of  The  Aldine  Printing  Works,  Cincinnati,  before 
closing  contracts  for  Printing  or  Binding.  This 
establishment  is  among  the  largest  and  best- 
equipped  in  the  country,  with  every  requisite  nec- 
essary for  the  production  of  the  smallest  pamphlet 
or  the  largest  book.  Fire-proof  vaults  for  the  safe- 
keeping of  plates.  C.  J.  KREHBIEL  &  Co. 

Mention  The  Century. 


FOREIGN   PHOTOGRAPHS. 

Various  sizes,  mounted  and  unmounted.  Works  of  the  Old  Mas- 
ters in  the  Galleries  and  Churches  of  Europe.  Italian  Views. 
Modern  Paintings:  from  the  originals  by  Alinari,  Naya,  Brock- 
mann,  Hollyer,  Berlin  Co.,  Hanfstaengl,  Mansel,  etc.  Braun's 
Carbon  Photographs.     Imported  direct  by 

C.  H.  DUNTON  &  CO.  50  Boylston  St.  Boston. 

New  i88q  Catalogue  of  ioo pp.  mailed  for  JO  cts.  in  stajnps. 


Keep  Books  by  West's  New  Original  Entry 

Ledger.  A  ledger  in  place  of  a  full  set  of  books.  Con- 
venient forms  for  all  entries.  Easily  applied,  simple, 
saves  time.  West's  Self-proving  Balance  locates  every 
error.  Send  three  2-cent  stamps  for  illustrated  16-page 
pamphlet.  Wolcott  &  West,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Babyhood. —  Devoted  to  the  Care  of  Infants. 
$1.50  a  year.     5   Beekman  St.   New-York. 

Unmounted     Photographs 

of  Ancient  and  Modern  Works 
of  Art,  embracing  reproduc- 
tions of  famous  original  paint- 
ings, sculpture,  architecture, 
etc.  Price,  cabinet  size,  $1.50 
per  dozen ;  larger  sizes  in  pro- 
portion. Lantern  Slides  to 
Send  15  cents  for  1887  catalogue  and  1890 
supplement  of  12,000  subjects. 

Soule  Photograph  Co.  Publishers, 

338  Washington  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Principal  Agencies: 
E.  P.  Dutton  &  Co.   31   West  23d  Street,  N.  Y. 
M.  O'Brien  &  Son,  208  Wabash  Avenue,  Chicago. 
W.  K.  Vickery,  108  Grant  Avenue,  San  Francisco. 
Loughead  &  Co.  1016  Walnut  Street,  Philadelphia. 
Please  mention  The  Century. 


order. 


"  Come  and  take  choice  of  all  my  Library  and  so  beguile  thy  sor- 
row."—  Titus  Andronicus,  Activ.,  Sc.  i. 


A    GREAT    NATIONAL    WORK. 


Washington,  Dec.  20,  1889. 
I  do  not  see  how  any  schoolin  America 
can  spare  this  work  from  its  reference 
library  for  teachers  and  pupils.  I  am 
sure  that  every  private  individual  will  pur- 
chase it  for  his  own  library,  if  he  has  to 
cut  off  for  a  time  his  purchase  of  other 
literature. 

Very  respectfully, 

W.  T.  Harris, 
U.  S.  Commissioner  of  Education. 


THE    LIBRARY 

OF 

AMERICAN 

LITERATURE, 

By  E.   C.   Stedman 

AND 

E.  M.    Hutchinson.  _,  ,  00 

Cambridge,  January  25,  1889. 

The  selections  have  been  made  with  excellent  judgment,  and  the 

editorial  work  has  been  admirably  done.  John  Fiske. 

Greencastle,  Ind.,  March  16,  1889. 
The  best  aggregate  expression  of  what  the  American  mind  has 
produced  in  the  two  hundred  and  eighty  years  of  its  activity. 

Respectfully,  John  Clark  Ridpath. 

Prices  and  Terms  fixed  within  the  reach  of  all. 
Specimen  pages  with  portraits  sent  to  any  address. 
To  Teachers  who  wish  to  earn  from  $100  to 
$400  a  month  during  vacation,  we  guarantee 
to  make  an  acceptable  proposition.  We  do  not 
desire  applications  from  parties  unwilling  to  devote 
time  and  study  to  the  work. 

Chas.  L.  Webster  &  Co.  Publishers, 

3  East  14th  Street,  N.  Y. 


IN    TEN    WEEKS 

You  can,  at  your  own  home,  by 

Dr.  Richard  S.  Rosenthal's  ffleisterschaft  System, 

learn  to  speak  fluently  either  Spanish,  French, 
Italian,  or  German. 

LATIN,  PART  I.,  Just  Published.    Price  50c. 

Invaluable  to  all  who  desire  to  read  Latin,  and  especially  valuable 
to  young  men  preparing  for  college. 

Specimen  Copy,  Spanish,  French,  German,  or  Italian,  25  Cents. 

All  subscribers  —  $5.00  for  each  language  —  become  actual  pupils 
of  Dr.  Rosenthal,  who  corrects  all  exercises  and  corresponds  with 
them  in  regard  to  any  difficulties  which  may  occur. 

MEISTERSCHAFT  PUBLISHING  CO. 

196  Summer  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Durch  Dight  und  Durch  Pflight. 

For  Country  Houses :     Etchings  from  $1.00  to 

$75.00. 

Large  and  small  Water  Colors,  high-class 
Lithographs,  every  variety  of  Prints  and  Photo- 
graphs. 

Mounted  or  artistically  framed,  these  make  the 
most  effective  decorations,  and  may  be  either 
inexpensive  or  costly. 

All  Prang's  latest  Art  Studies  and  Water-Color 
facsimiles. 

J.   E.   Ruutz  Rees, 

13  East  1 6th  Street,  New -York. 

Artists'  Materials.  Frames. 


BAT,   BALL,   AID   DIAMOND 

is  the  title  of  a  series  of  splendid  articles  on 

Base-Ball  by  Walter  Camp, 

the  well-known  "  coach  "  of 

Yale.     These  articles,   all  of 

which  are  illustrated,  will  be 

published  in   St.  NICHOLAS 

during  the  base-ball  season. 

The   first  of  them  is  printed 

in    the    May    number, 

which  is  now  for  sale 

by  all  ne  wsdealers,price 

25  cents. 

St.  Nicholas  is  a 
monthly  magazine  for 
boys  and  girls.  The 
May  number  is  es- 
pecially attractive,  contain- 
ing, in  addition  to  the  Base- 
Ball  articles,  "  Six  Years  in 
the  Wilds  of  Central 
Africa,"  by  one  of  Stanley's  pioneer 
officers;  "Lady  Jane,"  a  charming 
Mrs.  C.  V.  Jamison  ;  "  The  Bunny  Stories "  for  little  folks ;  anecdotes  of 
,  and  poems  and  pictures  in  great  variety. 

THE  CENTURY  CO.  33  East  17th  Street,  New  York. 


PITCHER  AT  PRACTICE  IN  THE  "  CAGE." 


serial 
dogs; 


by 
etc 


New- York,  New-York,  21  East  14th  Street. 

Metropolitan  Conservatory  of  Music. 

The  most  select  musical  school  in  the  United  States.  Exceptional 
advantages :  Voice,  Piano-forte,  Organ,  Violin,  Harmony  and  the 
Languages.  Successful  musicians  and  eminent  teachers  comprise 
the  faculty  —  all  actually  employed  at  the  Conservatory.  Prominent 
among  them  are:  Dudley  Buck,  Albert  R.  Parsons,  Director  Piano- 
forte Department,  Harry  Rowe  Shelley,  Paolo  Giorza,  Silas  G. 
Pratt  and  Etelka  Utassi.  Applicants  -without  musical  talent  not 
accepted.     Send  for  circular.      H.  W.  Greene,  General  Manager. 

C.  B.  Hawley,  Musical  Director. 

New- York,  New-York,  No.  4  East  58th  Street. 

Mrs.  Salisbury's  School  for  Girls. 

Facing  Central  Park. 

New-York,  New- York,  233  Lenox  Ave. 

The  New-York  Collegiate  Institute. 

A  Rugby  for  Girls.  Primary,  Academic  and  Collegiate  depart- 
ments.    Especial  attention  to  Physical  Training. 

Rev.  Alfred  C.  Roe,  Principal. 

New- York,  New-York,  Lyceum  Theater  Building. 

American   Academy  of  the   Dramatic 


Arts.     The   next    Academic    Year 
particulars  address  the  Secretary. 


begins    October    25th.     For 


New- York,  New-York,  260  W.  54th  St. 

Feeble- Minded  Children  trained. 

Circulars  sent.     Twelfth  year. 


Mrs.  E.  M.  Seguin,  Principal. 


New-York,  New- York,  343  Madison  Avenue. 

Barnard  College  for  Women. 

Degrees  given  by  Columbia.  Circulars  upon  application  to 
Secretary. ^_^^^^^^^^ 

New-York,  New- York,  18  E.  131st  St. 

Miss  Gardner's  School  for  Girls. 

Primary  department  for  Boys  and  Girls.     Catalogues  sent. 
New-York,  Brooklyn,  160  Joralemon  Street. 

Miss  Katherine  L.  Maltby,  recently  Principal 

of  the  Nassau  Institute,  will  open  her  spacious  and  inviting  residence, 
160  Joralemon  Street,  Brooklyn,  September  24,  1890,  for  the  recep- 
tion of  Young  Ladies  who  desire  to  spend  a  winter  in  the  city  in  the 
enjoyment  of  its  Art  or  Musical  advantages;  for  students  who  will 
attend  the  sessions  of  day  schools  in  Brooklyn;  or  for  pupils  who 
wish  special  instruction  under  her  charge.  Address  for  circular 
Second  Year.  Miss  Maltby,  Principal. 

Long  Island,  Brooklyn,  286  to  292  Washington  Avenue. 

St.  Catharine's  Hall,   fourteenth  year. 

Diocesan  School  for  Young  Ladies  and  Children.  In 
charge  of  the  Sisters  of  St.  John  the  Evangelist.  Advent  Term 
begins  September  24,  1890.  Terms  per  annum:  English,  French, 
German  and  Latin,  $350.00  to  $400.00.  For  Day  pupils,  $50.00 
to  $100.00.  Kindergarten  Department,  $50.00  per  annum.  Pre- 
pares for  College.     Apply  to  the  Superior. 

Fourth  Year.     St.    Catharine's   in    the    Mountains. 
Holderness,  N.  H.      Recreation  School.      Session  from  June  28th 

to  September  3d. Terms,  $130.00.     "No  extras." 

New-York,  Albany. 

St.  Agnes  School  for  Girls. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  Rt.  Rev.  W.   C.  Doane,  S.  T.  D., 
LL.  D.    Terms,  $400  per  annum.    Entrance  fee,  $25.00.    Twenty- 
first  year  begins  Sept.  24.    For  catalogues  address  St.  Agnes  School. 
New- York,  Binghamton. 

The  Lady  Jane  Grey  School. 

Mrs.  Hyde  and  Daughters'  Home  School  for  Young  Ladies  and 
Little  Girls.      Special  and  regular  courses.     Prepares  for  College 

and  European  travel. Address  Mrs.  Jane  Grev  Hyde. 

New- York,  Clinton. 

HOUghtOn  Seminary  gives  young  women  thorough 
preparation  for  best  Colleges.  Advantages  unsurpassed.  Attrac- 
tive  to    High   School   graduates.      Sanitation   perfect.       Send   for 

references.     30th  year. A.  G.  Benedict,  A.  M. 

New-York,  Peekskill. 

Vieuland  Preparatory  School. 

Summer  Session  for  boys,  young  men  fitting  for  college  and  for 
teachers.     Send  for  circulars. 

Carl  A.   Harstrom,  M.  A.,  Principal. 


New-York,  Manlius. 

St.  John's  Military  School.    Was  founded  in 

1869  by  the  Rt.  Rev.  Frederic  D.  Huntington,  Bishop  of  Central 
New-York,  and  has  ever  since  been  a  successful  School  of  the 
highest  grade.  It  is  located  at  Manlius,  N.  Y.,  ten  miles  from 
Syracuse,  on  the  line  of  the  Syracuse,  Ontario  &  New-York  R.  R. 
The  situation  of  the  school  buildings  is  on  high  ground,  with  excel- 
lent natural  drainage.  The  direct  locality,  as  well  as  the  region 
surrounding  it,  is  extremely  healthful.  Although  within  easy  access 
of  all  parts  of  the  country,  cadets,  by  its  location,  are  removed  from 
the  evil  influences  that  surround  larger  towns.  The  appointments 
of  the  school  edifice  are  unsurpassed.  It  was  recently  built  at 
w  great  expense  with  express  reference  to  educational  uses,  and  is 
provided  with  special  securities  against  accident  and  ill-health.  It 
has  all  the  modern  improvements,  is  heated  by  steam  and  lighted 
with  gas. 

Every  applicant  must  submit  to  the  Superintendent  satisfactory 
testimonials  of  good  moral  character.  We  owe  it  to  our  patrons  to 
accept  only  well-bred  high-minded  young  men. 

The  school  is  conducted  in  the  interest  of  the  highest  classical  and 
general  scholarship.  Its  great  object  has  always  been  to  prepare 
young  men  thoroughly  for  college.  As  a  finishing  school  it  is 
unexcelled. 

There  are  three  courses  of  study  —  a  course  in  Civil  Engineering, 
a  Classical  course,  a  Business  course. 

The  code  of  discipline  is  similar  to  that  of  West  Point,  modified 
after  a  careful  study  of  the  great  schools  of  England. 

The  strictest  attention  paid  to  morals  and  manners. 

Cavalry,  Artillery,  Infantry. 

PREPARATORY  SCHOOL. 

Boys  under  fourteen  years  of  age  form  the  Preparatory  Depart- 
ment, and  are  completely  separated  from  the  older  boys.  The 
general  discipline  of  the  family  school  will  be  of  a  military  nature, 
but  the  strict  discipline  of  the  Academic  Department  will  be  tem- 
pered by  the  milder  management  of  the  well-conducted  household. 
Boys  of  this  department  may  avail  themselves  of  the  benefits  of  the 
Riding  School. 

SUMMER  SESSION. 

A  Summer  School  of  general  instruction  and  recreation  will  be 
held  during  the  Summer  months,  beginning  June  16th,  and  con- 
tinuing till  September  16th.  The  object  of  the  School  will  be  the 
care,  education  and  amusement  of  such  boys  as  may  live  at  too  great 
a  distance  to  admit  of  their  return  home  during  the  vacation,  or 
whose  parents  may  be  traveling.  We  have  an  extensive  patronage 
from  the  South.  Summer  pupils  may  join  the  School  Camp  at 
Cazenovia  Lake,  if  it  is  desired. 

Summer  Session  begins  June  16th. 

Next  Term  begins  September  r6th. 

Terms,  $450.00  per  annum. 

Summer  session,  $100.00. 

The  School  will  supply  all  bedding  and  linen.     No  extras. 

Rt.  Rev.  Frederic  D.  Huntington,  S.  T.  D.,  L.L.  D.,  President. 
For  circulars,  address        William  Verbeck,  Superintendent. 

New- York,  Utica. 

Mrs.  Piatt's  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

The  next  school  year  begins  Tuesday,  September  23,  1890. 
Applications  should  be  made  early. 

New-YoRk,  Fort  Edward. 

Fort  Edward  Collegiate  Institute. 

A  Boarding  Seminary  of  highest  grade.  Exclusively  for  Ladies. 
Superb  modern  buildings,  steam  heated,  with  handsome  and  com- 
modious chapel,  class-rooms,  music  and  art  rooms,  parlors,  gymna- 
sium and  furnished  rooms  for  100  young  ladies  and  for  12  Professors 
and  Teachers.  Five  courses  of  study,  with  diplomas  at  graduation ; 
also  Preparatory  Classes.  $220  per  year,  board,  furnished-room 
and  all  studies  except  Music,  Art,  Stenography  and  Type-writing. 

33d  year  Sept.  15th.  Jos.  E.  Kinc;,  D.  D. 

New-York,  Poughkeepsie. 

Eastman  Business  College. 

Open  all  the  year.  A  live  school  for  the  training  of  live  business 
men.  Persons  of  both  sexes  taught  to  earn  a  living  and  carefully 
prepared  for  honorable  positions.  Thorough  instruction  in  Book- 
keeping, Banking,  Commercial  Law,  Penmanship,  Correspond- 
ence, A  rithmetic,  etc. ;  Telegraphing,  Stenography,  Typewriting, 
etc.  Business  men  supplied  with  competentassistants  on  short  notice. 
No  charge  for  situations  furnished.  Terms  Reasonable.  Time 
short.     For  information,  address 

Clement  Gaines. 


New- York,  Syracuse. 

Mrs.  Alfred  Wilkinson's 

Fall  term  will  begin  September  17,  1890. 
ful  situation  on  the  hills  above  Syracuse, 
made  early. 


Girls'  School. 

Beautiful  and  health- 
Applications  should  be 


New-York,  Cornwall-on-Hudson. 

New -York  Military  Academy. 

Col.  C.  J.  Wright,  A.  M.,  Principal. 

New-York,  New  Rochelle. 

The  Collegiate  Institute,  "The  castle." 

Prepares  boys  for  college.      Military  instruction.      College  and 
special  courses.      Rooms  elegantly  furnished.      Boarding  pupils 
limited  to  twenty.    Address  H.  F.  Fuller,  M.  A.,  Head-master. 
New  Jersey,  Freehold. 

Freehold  Institute,    established  i844.  » 

College  preparation  a  specialty.    Family  school  for  boys.   Primary, 
High  School  and  Classical  Courses.     Gymnasium. 

A.  A.  Chambers,  A.  M. 

New  Jersey,  Bergen  Point. 

School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Location  on  Salt  Water,  8  miles  from  New- York. 
A.  E.  Sloan,  M.  A.  Lepha  N.  Clarke,  B.  A. 

Principal. Lady  Principal. 

New  Jersey,  Bordentown.    Between  New- York  and  Phila. 

Bordentown    Military    Institute,     solid 

foundations  in  English  Academic  Studies.  Prepares  for  College, 
Scientific  Schools  and  Business.  Music.  Upton's  U.  S.  Tactics. 
Lieut.  T.  D.  Landon,  Com'd't:  Rev.  T.  H.  Landon,  A.  M.,  Prin. 

New  Jersey,  Seven  Gables,  Bridgeton,  N.  J. 

Mrs.  Westcott's  Boarding  School  for 

Young  Ladies.  In  South  Jersey.  Prepares  for  any  college. 
Climate  mild  and  dry.     Gymnasium.    Illustrated  circular. 

New  Jersey,  Princeton.  ~ 

The  Princeton  Preparatory  School 

Opens  Sept.  17th.     Inquiries  may  be  addressed  to  President  Patton 
of  Princeton  College,  or  to 
J.  B.  Fine,  Headmaster. 

New  Jersey,  Lake  wood. 

Courtlandt  School,  for  Boys. 

Thomas  D.  Suplee,  A.  M.,  Headmaster. 

New  Jersey,  Morristown. 

St.  Hilda's  School. 

A  boarding  school  for  girls.     In  charge  of  the  Sisters  of  St.  John 
Baptist.     Eleventh  year  begins  Sept.  29th.     Terms,  $250.     Sum- 
mer  Session,  $60.     For  circulars  address  The  Sister  Superior. 
New  Hampshire,  Portsmouth.  ~~ 

Miss  A.  C.  Morgan's  School  for  Young 

Ladies  re-opens  Sept.  24,  1890. 

J.  G.  Whittier  says:    "A  better,  healthier  and  pleasanter  place 
for  a  school  could  scarcely  be  found  in  New  England. 
Maryland,  Lutherville^ 

$225  per  year  at  Lutherville   Semi- 

nary  (near  Baltimore)  for  Young  Ladies.  38th  year.  Modern 
conveniences,  large  campus,  full  faculty,  thorough  training,  home 
comforts.     Send  for  catalogue.     Rev.  J.  H.  Turner,  A.  M.,  Prin. 

Canada,  Ontario,  London. 


Hellmuth  College. 

One  of  the  most  complete  institutions  in  America  for  the  edu- 
cation of  Young  Ladies.  Literature,  Music,  Art,  Elocution,  etc. 
Circulars  sent  on  application. 

Rev.  E.  N.  English,  M.  A.,  Principal. 


Massachusetts,  Amherst. 

The  Terrace. 

Home  School  for  Nervous  and  Delicate  Children  and  Youth. 
Mrs.  W.  D.  Herrick,  Principal. 


Massachusetts,  Montvale. 

Ashley  Hall. 

Home  and  fitting  school  for  young  ladies.  Ten  miles  from  Boston. 
Unusual  advantages  in  Music,  Arts  and  Modern  Languages. 

Address  Miss  M.  G.  Whittemore,  Principal. 

Massachusetts,  Amherst. 

Summer  School  of   Languages,   Art, 

Science,  English  Literature,  Mathematics  and  Physical  Training. 
Fourteenth  Session  at  Amherst  College,  July  7  to  August  8.     For 

programme  address Prof.  W.  L.  Montague. 

Massachusetts,  Billerica. 

Mitchell's  Boys'  School,  l8  miles  from  Boston 

and  6  miles  from  Lowell  on  the  Boston  and  Lowell  R.  R.  A  Select 
Family  School  for  Boys,  aged  from  7  to  15,  inclusive.     Send  for 

circular  to M.  C.   Mitchell,  A.  M.,  Principal. 

Massachusetts,  Duxbury,  Powder  Point. 

POWder  Point  SchOOl.  prepares  for  Scientific 
School,  College  or  Business.  Advanced  Mathematics,  Physical  and 
Chemical  Laboratories.  The  boys  are  members  of  the  family. 
Number  limited. Frederick  B.   Knapp,  S.  B.  (M.  I.  T.) 

Massachusetts,  Amherst. 

Oak  Grove  Home   School  for  Young 

Ladies  reopens  Sept.  18,  1890.  Building  remodeled  and  enlarged. 
Pupils  admitted  to  Smith  and  Wellesley  on  our  certificate. 

Miss  Vryling  W.   Buffum,  A.  B.,  Principal. 

Massachusetts,  Greenfield. 

Prospect  Hill  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Twenty-second  year.  Regular  and  special  courses.  Beautiful 
and  healthful  location.  Our  certificate  admits  to  Smith  College. 
Science,  Art,  Music. James  C.  Parsons.  Principal. 

Massachusetts,  Cambridge. 

Harvard  University  Summer  Schools. 

Harvard  University  offers  summer  instruction  in  the  following 
departments,  viz.  : 

Four  courses  in  Chemistry,  two  in  Experimental  Physics,  three 
in  Geology,  two  in  Topography;  also  courses  in  Botany,  French, 
German,  Physical  Training  and  Medicine.  Except  the  courses  in 
Medicine  and  the  advanced  courses  in  Geology,  they  are  open  to 
both  men  and  women.  For  information,  address  Secretary  of 
Harvard  University,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Massachusetts,  Springfield. 

Home  and  Day  School  for  Girls. 

"  The  Elms."  Miss  Porter,  Principal.  Pupils  admitted  to 
Vassar,  Wellesley  and  Smith  on  our  Certificate.  Quincy  method 
for  children. 

Massachusetts,  Springfield. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  McDuffie, 

Successors  to  Miss  Catharine  L.  Howard  in  her  SCHOOL 
FOR  GIRLS.     Address 

Mrs.  John  McDuffie,  care  of  Miss  Catharine  L.  Howard. 
Massachusetts,  South  Hadley. 

Mount  Holyoke  Seminary  and  College. 

Offers  the  Seminary  course  with  diploma,  and  full  Collegiate, 
Special  and  Elective  courses  with  degrees.  Laboratories,  Lecture- 
rooms  and  Cabinets  with  every  appliance  for  the  study  of  the 
sciences.  Observatory,  Library  of  12,000  vols.,  Fine  Art  Gallery. 
All  buildings  on  high  ground,  and  the  sanitary  arrangements  are 
perfect.  Board  and  Tuition,  $200  a  year.  Opens  Sept.  n,  1890. 
Mrs.  E.  S.  Mead,  President  (formerly  of  the  Oberlin  College 
faculty,  and  late  associate  principal  of  Abbott  Academy,  Andover, 
Mass.)     Catalogues  on  application. 

Massachusetts,  Easthampton. 

Williston  Seminary  prepares  boys  for  any  college 

or  scientific  school.     Opens  Sept.  4th.     New  laboratories  and  bath- 
rooms.    All  buildings  heated  by  steam.     Address 

Rev.  Wm.  Gallagher,  Principal. 

Illinois,  Lake  Forest. 

Lake  Forest  University. 

Undergraduate  Department  and  Philosophical  Facility,  located 
near  Chicago.  Lately  endowed  with  $750,000.  Lake  Forest  Col- 
lege and  Academy  and  Ferry  Hall  College  and  Seminary  for  ladies. 

Professional  Departments  located  in  Chicago:  Chicago  College 
of  Law,  Rush  Medical  College,  Chicago  College  of  Dental  Surgery, 
— all  self-supporting  and  strong.  For  catalogues  and  information 
address  Pres.  Wm,  C.  Roberts. 


Circulars  of 

Mr.  F.  G.    Paulson, 

441   Wood  St. 

PITTSBURGH,         -        PA. 


Mr.    P.  C.    Barclay 

CAIRO,       -      ILL. 


Mr.    Rukard  Hurd, 
6  &  7  Johnston  B'ld'g, 

CINCINNATI,      -       OHIO. 


Circulars  of 

Mr.    W.   J.    Wilcox, 

126  Washington  St. 

CHICAGO,  -  ILL. 


?.   G.   B.  Sterling, 
52  Dey  St. 

W-YORK,        -         N.    Y. 


Mr.  Neal  Farnham, 
First  Nat.  Bank  B'ld'g, 

MINNEAPOLIS,    -    MINN. 


PENNSYLVANIA   MILITARY  ACADEMY,   CHESTER,  PA. 

A  MILITARY  COLLEGE.    Degrees  in  Civil  Engineering,  Chemistry,  Architecture  and  Arts. 

Thorough  Work  in  Laboratories,  Drafting-room  and  Field.     Military  system  second  only  to  that  of  the  U.  S.  M.  A. 
A  Preparatory  Department.     Best  Moral,  Mental  and  Physical  Training.     Spacious  Buildings  ;  Extensive  Equipment. 
Twenty-ninth  Session  opens  September  17,  1890.  Circulars  of  Col.  Charles  E.  Hyatt,  President. 


Pennsylvania,  Bryn  Mawr. 

Bryn  Mawr  College,   a  college  for  women. 

Bryn  Mawr,  Pa.,  ten  miles  from  Philadelphia.  Offers  graduate  and 
undergraduate  courses  in  Sanskrit,  Greek,  Latin,  Mathematics, 
English,  Anglo-Saxon,  French,  Old  French,  Italian,  Spanish, 
Celtic,  German,  including  Gothic  and  Old  High  German,  History, 
Political  Science,  Physics,  Chemistry,  Biology  and  lectures  on 
Philosophy.  Gymnasium  with  Dr.  Sargent's  apparatus  complete. 
Fellowships  (value  $450)  in  Greek,  English,  Mathematics,  History 
and  Biology.     For  Program,  address  as  above. 

Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  Chestnut  Hill. 

Mrs.  Comegys  and  Miss  Bell's  Eng- 

lish,  French  and  German  Boarding  School  for  Young  Ladies 
re-opens  Sept.  29,  1890.     Students  prepared  for  College. 
Ample  grounds  for  outdoor  exercise. 

Pennsylvania,   Philadelphia,  Germantown. 
Walnut  Lane    ScllOOl,  Formerly  Madame  Clement's 
—  Boarding  and  Day    School  for  Young  Ladies.     33d  year  opens 
Sept.  25.     Academical   and  college  preparatory  courses. 

Miss  Ada  M.   Smith,  Mrs.  T.  B.  Richards,  Principals. 
Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  4313  and  4315  Walnut  St. 

A  Thorough  French  and  English  Home 

School  for  Twenty  Girls.    Under  the  charge  of  Mme.  Henrietta 
Clerc  and  Miss  Marion  L.  Pecke.     French  warranted  to  be  spoken 
in  two  years.     Terms,  $300  a  year.     Address  Mme.  H.  Clerc. 
Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia. 

Pennsylvania  College  of  Dental  Sur- 

gery.  Thirty-fifth  annual  session  opens  October  1,  1890.  Lectures 
and  clinics  nine  months  in  the  year.      Women  admitted. 

C.  N.  Peirce,  D.  D.  S.,  Dean. 

Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia. 

'Woman's  Medical  College  of  Penn- 

sylvania.  The  winter  session  opens  October  2,  1890.  Three 
years'  graded  course,  closing  May  1st.  For  further  information 
address  Clara  Marshall,   M.  D.,  Dean. 

Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  1700  Green  Street. 

Miss  Boyer's  English,  French  &  Music 

School.  For  Boarding  and  Day  Pupils.  Music  department  in 
charge  of  Miss  E.  P.  Sherwood,  and  under  the  supervision  of  Mr. 
William  H.  Sherwood. 

Pennsylvania,  Philadelphia,  1350  Pine  Street. 

Miss     Anable's     Boarding    and    Day 

School  for  Young  Ladies.  Thorough  instruction.  Prepares 
students  for  college.     Forty-second  year  begins  Sept.  25,  1890. 

Pennsylvania,  Germantown,  202  and  204  W.  Chelten  Ave. 

Miss  Mary  E.  Stevens'  Boarding  and 

Day  School  begins  its  22d  year  Sept.  24,  1890.      "Approved"  by 
Bryn  Mawr  College,  and  "authorized"  to  prepare  students  for  its 
en  trance  examinations.    Pupils  pass  these  examinations  in  this  school. 
Pennsylvania,  Montgomery  Co.,  Ogontz. 

Ogontz  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Established  in  1850,  removed  in  1883  from  Chestnut  St.  Phila- 
delphia, to  Ogontz,  the  spacious  country  seat  of  Jay  Cooke.  For 
circulars,  apply  to  Principals. 

Pennsylvania,  Haverford. 

Haverford  College. 

Opens  9th  mo.  24th-  Early  application  should  be  made  for 
rooms.     Address 

Secretary  of  Haverford  College,  Pa. 


Connecticut,  Fairheld  Co.,  lirooktield  Centre. 

The  Curtis  School  for  ( 1 4)  Boys.    $500. 

15th  year.  My  50-page  circular  tells  what  education  means  for 
a  boy  here.  Formation  of  character  stands  first  with  us.  No  new 
boy  over  fifteen.  Frederick  S.  Curtis,  Ph.  B.  (Yale,  '69.) 

Connecticut,  New  Haven. 

Mrs.  Cady's  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Prepares  for  Smith  and  Wellesley,  and  admits  to  Vassar  by  Cer- 
tificate.    Circulars.     Early  application  necessary. 

Connecticut,  Stamford. 

Miss  Aiken's  School  for  Young  Ladies. 

Thirty-fifth  Year.  Prepares  for  College  or  Harvard  Examinations 
for  Women.  Number  limited  to  24.  Miss  Aiken's  Methods  for 
Mind-Trainingand  Concentration  at  Brentano's,  Union  Square,  N.Y. 

Connecticut,  Stamford. 

Miss  Low's  School  for  Girls. 

Re-opens  September  24th.     Circulars  on  application. 
Connecticut,  Simsbury. 

McLean  Seminary. 

Home  School.  Young  Ladies.  Beautiful  and  healthful  location. 
Three  hours  from  New-York.     Half-hour  from  Hartford.     Address 

Rev.  J.  B.  McLean. 

Ohio,  Cincinnati,  Mt.  Auburn. 

Mt.  Auburn   Institute,     established  1856. 

Family  School  for  Young  Ladies.  History  and  Literature  a  Spe- 
cialty. Careful  Home  Training  and  Social  Culture.  Best  Music  and 
Art  Advantages.     European  vacation  parties.    H.  Thane  Miller. 

Ohio,  Cincinnati,  S.  E.  Cor.  4th  and  Lawrence  Sts. 

Cincinnati  Conservatory  of  Music, 

Miss  Clara  Baur,  Directress.  Estab.  1867.  Open  during  the 
school  year  and  summer  term.  Day  and  boarding  pupils  can  enter 
at  any  time.     For  catalogue,  address  Miss  Clara  Baur. 

Ohio,  Cincinnati,  Walnut  Hills. 

1V11SS  lvOUrSe  w;n  re-open  her  English  and  French 
Family  and  Day  School  Sept.  30,  1890.  Pupils  may  take  special 
work,  or  the  full  course  of  study  fitting  for  College  Examinations. 

Ohio,  Columbus,  151  East  Broad  St. 

Miss  Phelps's   English   and   Classical 

School  for  Young  Ladies.  Special  advantages  in  Language, 
Literature,  Music,  Art,  Home  and  Social  Culture.  Fall  term  begins 
September  25,  1890.      New  School  Building. 

Ohio,  Cleveland. 

Case  School  of  Applied  Science 

Offers  courses  in  Civil,  Mechanical,  Mining  and  Electrical  Engi- 
neering.    For  Catalogues,  address 

Cady  Stale y,  President. 

Michigan,  Orchard  Lake. 

Michigan  Military  Academy. 

A  College  Preparatory  School  of  the  highest  grade.  Location 
thirty  miles  from  Detroit,  and  unsurpassed  for  beauty  and  health- 
fulness.     For  catalogue,  address Col.  J.  S    Rogers,  Supt. 

Michigan,  Ann  Arbor. 

School    of   Chemistry,    University   of 

Michigan.  The  annual  Directory  of  the  Alumni,  showing  what 
each  graduate  is  now  doing,  sent  on  request. 


GOLD    NECKLACES. 

The  successful  use  of  simple  elements  in  design  has  seldom  been  better 
shown  than  by  the  beauty  of  some  of  the  gold  necklaces  which  the  present 
styles  of  dress  have  led  jewelers  to  produce.  What  so  simple,  for  example, 
as  a  string  of  round  gold  beads,  with  a  shorter  row  pen- 
dent from  the  first  along  the  middle  portion  of  its  length, 
and  yet  few  ornaments  are  prettier,  and  few  are 
more   highly  decorative   when   suitably  worn. 


Necklaces  of  this  design,  the  beads  of  which  are  not  quite  the  size  of  a  pea,  may  be  had  for  $23.00. 

In  another  design  the  string  of  beads  is  used,  but  has,  instead  of  the  bead  pendants,  a  row,  along 
its  whole  length,  of  pointed  swinging  drops.     The  price  of  this  necklace  is  $45.00. 

Others,  at  the  same  price,  are  of  the  design  shown  in  the  accompanying  cut,  in  which  a  delicate, 
flexible  chain  takes  the  place  of  the  string  of  beads,  and  has  suspended  from  it  an  unbroken  row  of 
slender,  beautifully  finished  pendants.  In  some  of  the  necklaces  the  middle  pendant  is  made  longer, 
and  the  others  are  graduated  down  to  it,  making  a  pointed  design  at  the  center,  which  is  of  most 
pleasing  effect. 

To  correspondents  we  would  ask  to  repeat  what  has  been  said  in  these  advertisements  before, 
that  any  goods  that  may  be  ordered  will  be  sent  subject  to  return,  and  to  the  refunding  of  the  payment 
if  they  prove  in  the  least  degree  unsatisfactory  or  disappointing. 

THEODORE    B.  STARR, 
206  FIFTH    AVENUE,  fronting  Madison  Square,   NEW-YORK. 


BURNETT'S 
WOOD 
VIOLET. 

This  exquisite  perfume  is 
made  from  the  true  violets  and 
the  low  price  of  this  article 
makes  it  a  necessity  to  those 
who  love  the  flower.     Also 

Perfume  of  Garden  Heliotrope. 
Perfume  of  Southern  Jasmine. 
Perfume  of  English  Sweet-Briar. 


FOR  SALE  AT  RETAIL  AT  FOLLOWING  PRICES: 

Small  Size,  Gold  Plated  Sprinkler  Top,      .35 
Four-Ounce  Bottle,  Glass  Stopper,  .75 

Eight     "  "  "  "  $1.25 

Sixteen"  "  "  "  2.25 

For  sale  generally  in  New  York  City,  Chicago,  St. 
Louis,  Boston,  and  all  large  cities  and  towhs, 
by  dealers  in  fine  perfumery.  If  your  druggist  does 
not  keep  it,  send  12  cents  and  we  will  send  a  good 
sized  sample  of  any  of  the  above  perfumes  by  mail, 
securely  packed,  postpaid,  to  any  address 


JOSEPH  BURNETT  &  CO 

27  CENTRAL  STREET,  BOSTON. 


■9 


IAI< 


A&dicinalFOOD 


This  Original  and  World-renowned  Dietetic 

Preparation  is  a  substance  of 

II N R I VA I  I  Pfl  Pui"tv  an(*   medicinal  worth— potent  for 

Ulllll IHLLLU  g00d  ani%  powerless  to  harm.      A  solid 

extract,    derived  by   a    new    process    from    very 

superior  growths  of  wheat— nothing  more,  and  as  a 

Fflflfl    ifc  woul<*  De  difficult   to  conceive  of  anything 

iUUU)  more  wholesome  and  delicious.    It  has   justly 

acquired  the  reputation  of  being  the  salvator 

FOR  INVALIDS  AND  TIE  AGED  i  Si^.T?."".": 

growth  and   protection  of 

INFANTS  AND  CHILDREN  i  LZ^e™r.~ 

nourishing  and  strengthening  food  for 

NURSING  MOTHERS  k  CONVALESCENTS;  SLJJtS5 

in  all  diseases  of  the  stomach  and  intestines. 

John   Carle  &  Sons,      New  York. 


THE    CENTURY  ADVERTISING   SUPPLEMENT. 


A    HAWK-EYE    VIEW    OF    AFRICA. 


-m& 


■HP 


mm 


■■■Hug 

■Mi    I 


llflfl  III    ,  '  11!  '     ISlff  I  ' 

Bw/'i,'""" HilMtt     w  , 
SiiSiiBM 


KIMAWENZI.  KIBO. 

THE   FIRST    PHOTOGRAPH    OF    KILIMA-NJARO    TAKEN    WITH    A   HAWK-EYE   CAMERA. 


^ 

HE  modern  traveler  has  a  great 
deal  to  be  thankful  for.  How 
envious  must  be  the  shades 
of  Baron  Munchausen,  Marco 
Polo,  and  "  Sinbad  the  Sailor  " 
of  their  prototypes  of  this  year  of  grace  1890. 
In  those  ancient  days  the  good  people  at  home 
gaped  and  wondered,  and  at  last  refused  to 
believe  in  the  stories  travelers  told  of  the 
wonderful  things  they  had  seen,  and  the  mar- 
velous adventures  they  had  passed  through  in 
distant  lands. 

Nor  is  it  necessary  to  return  to  the  ancients 
to  illustrate  the  theme  of  this  brief  paper. 
The  revolution  that  has  been  brought  about, 
to  the  immense  advantage  of  the  traveler,  is 
of  very  recent  date  indeed.  When  Stanley  re- 
turned from  finding  Livingstone,  in  187 1,  he 
was  denounced  as  an  impostor,  and  a  forger 
of  Livingstone's  writings.  A  Hawk-Eye  camera 
would  have  enabled  Stanley  to  bring  out  of 
Africa  proofs  that  would  have  immediately 
put  his  detractors  to  the  blush. 


When  I  went  to  Africa,  a  year  ago,  on 
behalf  of  the  "  New  York  World,"  to  find 
Stanley,  I  was  provided  with  a  Hawk-Eye  cam- 
era as  a  necessary  part  of  my  outfit.  The  ex- 
treme portability  of  this  camera,  and  the  ease 
and  simplicity  with  which  pictures  may  be 
taken  with  it,  were  great  recommendations  to 
one  who  is  the  veriest  amateur.  My  confidence 
in  it  was  fully  justified,  for,  amateur  as  I  am, 
it  enabled  me  to  bring  away  a  collection  of 
the  most  unique  photographs  that  have  ever 
been  secured  in  Africa. 

Two  hundred  miles  from  Mombasa  is  Mount 
Kilima-njaro,  the  most  remarkable  mountain 
in  Africa,  if  not  the  whole  world.  It  is  a  huge 
mountain  mass,  a  hundred  and  fifty  miles  in 
circumference,  with  two  distinct  peaks.  Its 
greatest  length  is  from  east  to  west.  From  the 
northern  side  it  presents  the  appearance,  as 
will  be  seen  from  the  photograph,  of  an  im- 
mense ridge,  on  the  shoulder  of  which  are 
perched  two  extinct  volcanic  cones. 

The  highest  of  these  peaks  is  called  Kibo, 


May,  '90. 


l7 


i8 


A   HAWK-EYE    VIEW  OE  AFRICA. 


and  the  other,  Kimawenzi.  Kibo  is  a  perfect 
and  symmetrical  cone,  and  is  always  crowned 
with  snow,  though  the  mountain  is  almost  un- 
der the  equator.  Dr.  Meyers,  a  German  ex- 
plorer, who,  with  a  companion,  ascended  Kibo 
last  October,  gives  its  height  as  19,680  feet 
above  sea-level.  Kimawenzi  is  a  less  perfect 
cone,  and  is  not  always  crowned  with  snow. 

There  is  a  population  on  the  mountain, 
roughly  estimated  at  fifty  thousand  souls. 
They  are  divided  into  fourteen  independent 
States,  known  as  the  States  of  Chaga.  The 
cultivated  and  inhabited  zone  begins  about 
2000  feet  above  the  plain,  or  4000  feet  above 
sea-level,  and  is  from  one  to  a  half  dozen 
miles  wide.  From  the  plains  below  the  bright 
green  ring  of  the  cultivated  area  can  be  seen, 
encircling  the  great  waist  of  the  mountain  like 
a  broad  belt. 

The  great  staple  food  of  the  Wa-Chaga  is 
bananas,  which  grow  in  great  abundance  and 
perfection.  Besides  bananas,  however,  they 
grow  immense  quantities  of  beans,  millet,  cas- 
sava, and  sweet-potatoes. 

The  first  glimpse  we  caught  of  Kilima- 
njaro was  a  gleaming  white  patch  in  the  sky, 
seen  from  the  Lanjora  Plain,  beyond  the  Teita 
Mountains.  It  was  the  snow-capped  peak  of 
Kibo  revealed  in  this  strange  manner  through 
a  break  in  the  clouds  that  veiled  the  rest  of 
the  mountain. 

The  accompanying  picture,  taken  with  my 
Hawk-Eye  camera,  is  from  the  plains  to  the 
northeast  of  the  mountain.  On  the  northern 
aspect  the  mountain  is  often  free  from  clouds, 
and  visible  in  its  entirety.  Not  so,  however, 
on  the  southern  side.  Even  when  the  sky 
above  the  open  plains  is  clear,  the  great  mass 
of  Kilima-njaro,  from  the  southern  and  south- 
eastern prospect,  is  well-nigh  always  concealed 
behind  dense  masses  of  clouds.  Its  snowy 
peak,  however,  is  often  revealed  in  the  manner 
described  above. 

Though  this  mountain,  higher  and  grander 
in  its  proportions  than  Ararat,  is  but  a  two- 
weeks'  march  from  the  coast,  until  so  recently 
as  thirty  years  ago  it  was  almost  unknown  to 
the  civilized  world.  So  incredible  did  it  seem 
to  the  stay-at-home  geographers  of  the  day 
that  a  vast  snowy  mountain  should  exist  in 
East  Equatorial  Africa,  that  its  existence  Was 
regarded  as  a  myth  and  a  "  traveler's  tale  " 
long  after  white  men  had  seen  it.  There  is 
no  doubt  about  it  these  days,  however,  for, 


like  George  Washington,  the  camera  never 
lies. 

The  elevated  plains  about  Kilima-njaro,  for 
a  radius  of  two  hundred  miles,  is  probably  the 
finest  big-game  country  in  the  world.  Whilst 
scouting  for  Stanley  or  for  news  of  him  in  this 
region,  making  my  headquarters  at  Taveta,  a 
forest  Arcadia  at  the  foot  of  Kilima-njaro,  it 
was  an  easy  matter  to  combine  business  with  the 
pleasures  of  the  chase  in  this  sportsman's  para- 
dise. Rhinoceros  and  giraffes  by  the  hundreds ; 
buffaloes,  hartebeest,wildebeest,  eland,  mpallah 
by  the  thousands;  roam  and  graze  over  pas- 
tures that  are  luxuriant  and  well  watered  by 
clear  streams,  fed  by  the  snows  on  the  mountain. 

In  your  hunting  excursions  you  take  with 
you  from  the  camp  about  a  dozen  followers : 
a  couple  of  gun-bearers,  and  the  others  to 
carry  home  the  trophies  and  meat.  In  a  similar 
article  in  "  Harper  "  and  "  Scribner  "  for  this 
month  may  be  found  pictures  and  description 
of  killing  a  python  and  crocodile,  together  with 
incidents  of  my  trip  which  could  not  be  given 
here.  I  have  a  number  of  heads  and  other 
trophies  of  the  chase  now  on  the  way  from 
Zanzibar  to  New  York,  by  American  sailing 
vessel.  They  will  probably  be  set  up  by  a 
taxidermist,  and  grace  the  rooms  of  the  new 
"  World  "  building. 

The  animal  that  intrudes  upon  your  notice 
often er  than  any  others  is  the  rhinoceros. 
All  other  animals  run  away  at  the  sight  of 
a  caravan  of  men ;  the  rhinoceros  usually 
charges  on  sight.  He  is  a  big  brute,  and  as 
stupid  as  he  is  big.  Reveal  yourself  to  a  lion, 
or  the  far  more  dangerous  buffalo,  and  either 
of  these  animals  will  flee.  Wound  them,  how- 
ever, and  they  become  dangerous. 

Not  so  the  rhinoceros.  His  actions  in  an 
encounter  with  man  are  exactly  the  reverse. 
The  louder  you  shout  to  try  and  drive  a  rhino 
off,  the  likelier  is  he  to  cock  forward  his  stumpy 
little  ears,  and,  elevating  his  pugnacious  horns, 
come  thundering  after  you.  Don't  run  away, 
however ;  stand  perfectly  still,  or  squat  in  the 
grass,  and  so  defective  in  his  vision  that  he 
will  likely  mistake  you  for  a  rock  or  stump,  and 
pass  you  by. 

Or  smash  into  him  with  a  bullet  as  he  comes 
on ;  his  pig-headed  courage  escapes  from  the 
wound  as  air  from  a  bladder,  and  swerving  off, 
he  hurries  away  at  a  heavy,  ponderous  trot, 
that  suggests  to  you  the  weight  and  solidity  of 
a  locomotive. 


A   HAWK-EYE    VIEW  OF  AFRICA. 


*9 


Shooting  at  rhinoceroses,  to  prevent  them 
charging  and  demoralizing  your  caravan,  is,  in 
some  localities  about  the  Kilima-njaro  Plains, 
an  affair  of  daily  occurrence.  Unwilling  to  in- 
flict wounds  on  them  from  which  they  would 
die,  I  once  essayed  the  experiment  of  trying 
to  drive  a  trio  of  rhinos  off  our  line  of  march 
by  pricking  their  skins  with  a  Winchester  car- 
bine, instead  of  using  my  12 -bore.  The  at- 
tempt nearly  ended  in  disaster.  As  the  three 
huge  brutes  came  on  to  charge  the  caravan, 
I  sent  the  wicked  little  44's  pattering  against 
their  horny  hides ;  but  the  rhinos  seemed  to 
mind  them  no  more  than  if  I  had  been  pep- 
pering them  with  a  bean-shooter.  I  dodged 
behind  a  bush,  and,  as  they  went  thundering 
on  towards  the  mass  of  porters,  my  com- 
panion, Dr.  Abbott,  turned  the  tide  of  battle 
by  banging  into  them  with  his  big  elephant- 
rifle. 


Attention  is  called,  with,  I  believe,  pardon- 
able pride,  to  the  photograph  of  a  band 
of  Masai  warriors.  The  securing  of  such  a 
picture  is  a  triumph  alike  for  the  Hawk- Eye 
camera  and  the  amateur  photographer.  It 
must  not  be  supposed  that  this  war-party  of 
wild  El-moran  are  tractable  "  subjects  "  group- 
ing themselves  for  the  purpose  of  being  pho- 
tographed. The  Masai  warriors  are  the  most 
intractable  type  of  the  African  savage  now  in 
existence.  The  party  in  the  photograph,  armed 
with  their  huge,  beautifully  shaped  spears  and 
elliptical  shields,  are  coming  to  our  camp  to  de- 
mand "  hongo,"  or  tribute,  for  the  privilege  of 
passing  through  their  country.  At  no  slight 
risk,  the  writer  concealed  himself  behind  a 
bush,  and  as  they  came  prancing  and  war- 
chanting  up,  the  Hawk- Eye  was  leveled  at 
them  through  an  opening  in  the  bush;  a  touch 
of  the  spring,  and  one  of  the  most  remarkable 


AFRICAN    GAME. — A   HAWK-EYE    SNAP-SHOT. 


The  photograph  of  porters,  carrying  on  their 
heads  loads  of  meat,  was  taken  on  the  Useri 
Plain,  to  the  east  of  Kilima-njaro,  last  July.  It 
depicts  a  successful  morning's  hunt.  The  heads 
borne  by  the  two  central  figures  are  those  of  a 
bull  and  cow  eland,  and  the  other  loads  are 
the  hams  and  portions  of  their  carcasses. 


photographs  ever  brought   out  of  the  Dark 
Continent  is  secured. 

It  is  quite  evident  that  with  an  ordinary 
photographic  apparatus,  with  tripod,  compli- 
cated adjustment,  darkening-cloth,  and  what- 
not, such  a  picture  as  this  could  never  have 
been  obtained. 


20 


A   HAWK-EYE    VIEW  OF  AFRICA. 


"hongo"!    "hongo"! 


These  bands  of  Masai  warriors  are  the  ter- 
ror of  East  Africa.  One  of  the  peculiar  and 
traditional  beliefs  of  the  El-moran  is,  that  all 
cattle  are  for  his  particular  use  and  benefit ; 
and  that  for  other  Africans  to  own  them  is 
unpardonable  presumption.  Beside  raising 
vast  numbers  for  their  own  consumption,  the 
Masai  therefore  make  raiding  and  cattle-lift- 
ing among  the  neighboring  tribes  the  serious 
business  of  their  lives. 

The  Masai  warriors  are  the  Apaches  of  East 
Africa ;  brave,  warlike,  and  terrible  in  the  es- 
timation of  other  Africans.  They  live  exclu- 
sively on  a  diet  of  beef  and  milk,  permitting 
no  other  food  to  pass  their  lips.    Their  country 


is  swarming  with  herds  of  game  that  are  al- 
most as  tame  as  their  own  half- wild  cattle. 
Yet  they  never  molest  it,  and  would  on  no 
account  taste  its  flesh.  We  used  to  joke  with 
them,  and  tell  them  we  were  as  much  El-moran 
[warrior]  as  themselves.  This,  however,  they 
would  not  admit ;  arguing  that  nobody  could 
be  an  El-moran  unless,  like  them,  he  dis- 
dained all  food  save  beef  and  milk.  A  little 
tact  and  plenty  of  patience  is  all  that  is  neces- 
sary in  dealing  with  most  savages.  A  savage 
is  naturally  an  amiable  creature.  It  is  because 
he  does  n't  understand  you  nor  you  him,  that 
you  sometimes  have  to  fight  him. 


Note  by  the  Bi.air  Camera  Co.  : — Readers  of  the  above  will  recognize  in  this  and  other  similar  articles  mentioned  appearing 
in  May,  the  same  tact  that  enabled  Mr.  Stevens  to  accomplish  his  trip  around  the  world  on  a  bicycle.  Without  the  Hawk-Eye,  how- 
ever, the  pleasure  of  the  thousands  of  Century  readers  would  have  been  greatly  lessened,  and  in  this  connection  attention  is  called  to 
our  announcement  on  advertising  page  51  of  this  magazine,  by  which  doubtless  many  will  be  convinced  that  a  Hawk-Eye  is  a  neces- 
sary part  of  every  vacation  outfit. 


PAINTED   BY  JAMES  WRIGHT. 


ENGRAVED   BY   T.  JOHNSON. 


OWNED    BY   G.    L.    MCKEAN 


The  Century  Magazine. 


Vol.  XL. 


MAY,   1890. 


No. 


ARCHIBALD     ROBERTSON, 

AND    HIS    PORTRAITS    OF    THE    WASHINGTONS. 

BORN,   1765;     DIED,   1835. 


y  fePn 


ROBABLY  the  career  of  no  one 
among  the  pioneers  of  Ameri- 
can art  is  so  little  known  to  the 
present  generation  as  that  of 
Archibald  Robertson.  Yet  in 
the  beginning  of  this  century 
no  name  was  more  familiar  to  New  Yorkers 
than  his.  This  is  the  first  comprehensive 
sketch  of  his  life  that  has  been  made  since 
Dunlap,  years  ago,  wrote  of  his  friend  in  eulo- 
gistic terms.  The  present  article  is  founded 
upon  original  manuscripts  in  the  possession  of 
Robertson's  youngest  and  only  surviving  son. 

Among  the  remarkable  phenomena  in  the 
physical  geography  of  Scotland  are  the  numer- 
ous conical-shaped  hills  and  mountains,  gen- 
erally insulated  and  often  of  dizzy  height,  that 
are  found  in  the  low  countries  and  almost  level 
plains  as  well  as  in  the  mountainous  regions. 
One  of  the  best  known  is  North  Berwick  Law, 
situated  on  the  mainland  on  the  south  entrance 
to  the  Firth  of  Forth,  and  terminating  the  vista 
seen  down  the  length  of  the  King  street  of 
Edinburgh.  On  the  west  side  of  Scotland,  and 
on  the  same  parallel  of  latitude,  the  island  of 
Ailsa,  washed  at  its  base  by  the  tides  of  the  Firth 
of  Clyde,  lifts  its  craggy  apex  to  the .  clouds. 
Many  others  might  be  mentioned,  such  as 
the  Rock  of  Dumbarton,  Arthur's  Seat,  etc. 

About  thirty  miles  west  of  Aberdeen,  and 
two  miles  south  of  the  river  Dee,  is  a  conical 
mountain  called  Clokh-na-Bain,  from  a  large 
rock  on  its  northern  brow.  Some  distance  be- 
yond this  stony-crested  mount  stands  Ben-ak- 
hise,  a  more  gigantic  cone.  These  two  moun- 
tains not  only  are  celebrated  landmarks  on 
shore,  but  are  useful  to  those  mariners  who 
frequent  the  German  Ocean. 


One  of  the  most  beautiful  and  regular  of 
these  conical  eminences,  which,  although  not 
as  high,  is  far  more  interesting,  lies  nearly  in 
the  center  of  a  line  drawn  due  north  and 
south  between  Clokh-na-Bain  and  Ben-ak- 
hise.  This  is  the  Mount  of  Danes- Dykes,  so 
termed  from  the  remains  of  the  Danish  camp 
on  its  summit. 

On  the  west  of  Drumnahoy  a  semicircle 
formed  of  Grampians  makes  a  complete  am- 
phitheater, sweeping  from  the  mountain  at 
the  base  of  which  lies  Paradise  on  the  Don  to 
Blackball  on  the  Dee.  Northward,  on  the 
bank  of  the  river  Don,  once  stood  the  castel- 
lated mansion  of  Monymusk  in  the  midst  of 
its  parks  and  plantations,  its  neighboring  vil- 
lage, its  wildernesses,  and  its  highly  cultivated 
gardens.  Scattered  within  a  radius  of  a  few 
miles  were  castles  Fraser  and  Cluny  (there  pro- 
nounced Cleeny)  and  the  house  of  the  Earl 
of  Fife.  Thus  we  have  the  topography  of 
Kinarney,  the  homestead  of  the  maternal 
grandfather  of  Archibald  Robertson;  of  Drum- 
nahoy, that  of  his  paternal  ancestors ;  and  of 
Monymusk,  the  estate  of  Sir  Archibald  Grant, 
to  whom  he  was  indebted  for  his  name. 

Amid  these  historic  surroundings  was  born 
in  the  village  of  Monymusk,  Aberdeenshire, 
on  the  8th  of  May,  1765,  the  subject  of  this 
sketch. 

Archibald  Robertson  was  a  lineal  descen- 
dant of  Baron  Alexander  Robertson,  Viscount 
Struan  or  Strowan.  This  nobleman  through  a 
long  life  actively  supported  the  Jacobite  cause. 
History  records  that  four  days  after  the  re- 
markable battle  of  Killiecrankie  the  clan  of 
Robertsons  were  fallen  upon  by  the  enemy, 
who  killed  120  and  took  30  prisoners,  with  the 
loss  of  but  one  soldier.    Alexander  escaped  to 


Copyright,  1890,  by  The  Century  Co.     All  rights  reserved. 


ARCHIBALD  ROBERTSON,  AND   HIS 


France;  his  Scottish  estates  were  confiscated; 
but  on  the  accession  of  Queen  Anne  a  pardon 
was  granted  to  him  on  condition  that  he  swear 
fealty  and  disperse  his  clan.  As  the  opposition 
had  already  practically  disposed  of  the  latter, 
the  Highland  chief  readily  accepted  the  terms. 
He  returned  to  his  birthplace,  and  passed  his 
leisure  hours  in  writing  a  volume  of  political 
pasquils.  Macaulay  condemns  these  poems  as 
"  very  stupid,  and  often  very  profligate."  How- 
ever, they  acquired  a  high  degree  of  notice  at 
the  time,  and  are  now  numbered  among  the 
literary  curiosities  of  that  period.  A  contem- 
porary writer  speaks  of  the  author  as  "  a  consid- 
erable man  among  the  Highlanders,  a  man  of 
excellent  sense,  and  every  way  a  complete 
gentleman."1 

The  descendants  of  the  baron  inherited  his 
literary  tastes  and  many  of  his  prominent  per- 
sonal characteristics.  From  father  to  son  they 
received  a  fair  smattering  of  letters,  princi- 
pally at  the  University  of  St.  Andrews. 

Robertson's  parents  removed  when  he  was 
a  child  to  Aberdeen,  where  he  obtained  an  ex- 
cellent education  at  King's  College.  In  early 
youth  he  manifested  a  decided  preference  for 
the  fine  arts.  His  first  preceptor  was  a  deaf 
mute,  a  pupil  of  the  celebrated  Braidwood, 
who  was  one  of  the  first  to  teach  the  dumb 
to  speak.  This  afflicted  gentleman  had  con- 
siderable talent,  and  had  acquired  perhaps  as 
much  knowledge  as  though  in  full  possession  of 
his  lost  senses.  His  manner  of  tuition  was  to  give 
a  model  to  his  pupil  to  do  what  he  could  with  it, 
and  where  faults  were  made  he  corrected  them 
without  explanation.  The  boy,  having  no  de- 
fined rules,  after  some  time  passed  in  this  man- 
ner found  himself  just  where  he  began.  The 
absurdity  of  this  mechanical  method  left  an 
indelible  impression  on  Archibald's  mind. 
When  in  after  life  he  himself  became  a  pro- 
fessor, he  invariably  explained  the  principles 
on  which  every  point  was  formed,  and  to  this 
incident  he  attributed  his  success  as  an  in- 
structor. 

In  1782  he  went  to  Edinburgh,  where  he 
remained  several  years  studying  the  art  of 
painting.  His  associates  were  Henry  Raeburn, 
Walter  Weir,  and  George  Watson.  There  was 
then  no  Academy  of  Fine  Arts  in  Edinburgh, 
and  these  young  painters  formed  themselves 
into  a  class  for  mutual  improvement.  In  1784 
or  1785  Robertson  returned  to  Aberdeen  on 
account  of  his  health,  and  there  completed 
his  academic  studies.  It  was  at  this  time  that 
he  painted  a  small  miniature  of  his  father — 
the  earliest  production  of  his  brush  that  has 
been  preserved.  The  Scotch  characteristics 
are  strongly  depicted  on  the  countenance. 

1  Vide  Chambers,  "  Biographical  Dictionary  of 
Eminent  Scotsmen." 


In  1786  he  went  to  London  to  study  at  the 
Royal  Academy,  and  there  formed  his  taste 
upon  the  best  models  of  ancient  and  modern 
art.  It  was  during  his  residence  in  this  city 
that  he  was  introduced  to  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds 
by  Sir  William  Chambers,  the  architect.  Rob- 
ertson was  at  once  admitted  into  the  artist's 
studio  as  a  pupil.  An  exquisite  miniature  of  the 
master  is  the  result  of  this  experience.  It 
imitates  the  more  youthful  portrait  of  Sir 
Joshua,  by  himself,  in  the  possession  of  the 
Northcote  family,  in  London.  Reynolds  is 
arrayed  in  his  scarlet  cloak  of  Doctor  of 
Laws.  A  century  has  passed  since  the  colors 
were  laid,  yet  to-day  they  are  as  bright  as  any 
modern  production.  This  is  believed  to  be  the 
only  miniature  of  Sir  Joshua  in  existence.  It 
is  owned  by  Robertson's  granddaughter,  Mrs. 
J.  Warren  Goddard,  of  New  York. 

Robertson  has  left  the  following  description 
of  the  great  founder  of  the  English  school  of 
painting : 

He  [Sir  Joshua]  was  in  stature  rather  under  the 
middle  size,  of  a  florid  complexion,  and  a  lively  and 
pleasing  aspect,  well  made  and  extremely  active. 
His  appearance  at  first  sight  impressed  the  spectator 
with  the  idea  of  a  well-born  and  well-bred  English 
gentleman,  with  an  uncommon  equability  of  tem- 
per, which,  however,  never  degenerated  into  insi- 
pidity or  apathy.  He  possessed  a  constant  flow  of 
spirits,  which  rendered  him  at  all  times  the  most 
pleasing  companion  ;  always  cheerful,  and  ready  to 
be  amused  with  whatever  was  going  forward,  and, 
from  an  ardent  thirst  of  knowledge,  anxious  to  ob- 
tain information  on  every  subject  that  was  presented 
to  his  mind.  In  conversation  his  manner  was  per- 
fectly natural,  simple,  and  unassuming.  If  it  should 
be  asked,  amidst  so  many  excellent  and  amiable 
qualities,  were  there  no  failings,  I  wish  to  answer 
the  inquiry  in  the  words  of  Mr.  Burke  :  "  I  do  not 
know  a  fault  or  a  weakness  of  his  that  he  did 
not  convert  into  something  that  bordered  on  a  vir- 
tue, instead  of  pushing  it  to  the  confines  of  vice." 

Robertson  also  profited  by  lessons  from  Ben- 
jamin West.  To  such  an  extent  did  he  apply 
himself  to  the  cultivation  of  his  natural  talent 
that  before  he  was  thirty  years  of  age  he 
was  known  in  the  Court  of  St.  James  under 
the  appellation  of  "  The  Reynolds  of  Scot- 
land." A  series  of  original  paintings  from 
Ossian,  produced  at  this  period  of  his  career, 
received  royal  commendation. 

No  biography  of  Robertson  would  be  com- 
plete without  mention  of  the  intimacy  exist- 
ing between  his  own  family  and  that  of  the 
Grants.  For  generations  the  two  households 
had  lived  in  close  proximity,  and  a  similarity 
of  tastes  and  congenial  ages  had  fostered  a 
spirit  of  genuine  affection.  Sir  Archibald 
Grant  represented  the  lords,  lairds,  and  other 
freeholders   of  Aberdeenshire  in  Parliament 


PORTRAITS   OF  THE    WASHINGTONS. 


NEIL    GOW,     A     SCOTCH     FIDDLER.       (PAINTED     ON     IVORY     BY    ANDREW     ROBERTSON,     ABOUT    1780.  ] 


for  a  period  of  thirty  years,  in  the  reigns  of 
the  first  three  Georges  and  during  the  minis- 
tries of  Walpole,  Chatham,  and  Bute.  He 
married  the  rich  widow  of  Andrew  Miller,  the 
famous  bookseller,  and  his  only  son,  after- 
wards Sir  Archibald  II.,  as  he  was  called, 
married  the  still  richer  daughter.  It  was  the 
father  whom  Foote,  the  actor,  turned  into 
ridicule  as  Sir  Arc hy  Mc Sarcasm  in  Macklin's 
play  "  The  Man  of  the  World." 

When  the  Robertsons  removed  to  Aberdeen 
the  friends  took  turns  in  periodical  visits  to 
each  other's  homes.  At  the  mansion  of  Mony- 
musk  Archibald  spent  every  summer  from 
the  age  of  fifteen  years  until  he  sailed  for  the 
New  World,  in  179 1.  He  has  left  a  water- color 
of  this  country-seat,  together  with  the  following 
account  of  the  supervision  of  the  neighborhood, 
which  suggests  a  veritable  Utopia : 

"  Sir  Archibald  allowed  no  suffering  poor  in 
the  parish  or  on  the  estate  of  Monymusk  ;  the 
landlord,  his  family,  and  steward  took  care  to 
prevent  that.  There  was  no  lawyer  but  Mr. 
Young,  the  factor,  whose  sole  business  was  to 
draw  leases  and  collect  the  rents.  Sir  Archi- 
bald took  care  to  have  always  a  respectable 


minister  in  the  kirk  of  the  parish,  a  learned 
dominie  in  the  schoolhouse,  and  a  skilled 
physician  to  aid  the  sick.  In  short,  the  whole 
parish  —  that  is,  the  estate  of  Monymusk  — 
was  one  large  family,  under  the  paternal  in- 
spection and  guidance  of  a  wise,  good,  and 
benevolent  friend.  They  might  have  heard 
of  knavery,  thievery,  and  worse  crimes  in 
other  parts  of  the  world,  but  they  knew  nothing 
about  them  amongst  themselves."  The  writer 
naively  adds,  "  They  were  totally  ignorant  of 
the  nature  and  uses  of  police  officers." 

After  his  London  success  Robertson  re- 
turned to  practice  his  profession  at  his  native 
home.  There,  while  in  the  extensive  exercise 
of  his  art,  he  was  "  invited  by  the  venerable 
Dr.  Gordon,  of  King's  College,  Old  Aberdeen, 
at  the  request  of  Dr.  Kemp,  of  Columbia  Col- 
lege, New  York,  at  the  particular  solicitation 
of  Chancellor  Livingston  and  the  venerable 
Dr.  Samuel  Bard,  to  cross  the  Atlantic  to  New 
York."  *  He  was  reluctant  at  first  even  to  con- 
sider the  proposition.  The  United  States  rose 
to  his  imagination  as  the  home  of  a  semi-civil- 
ized race.  This  feeling  was  accentuated  by  a 
1  Robertson's  personal  account. 


ARCHIBALD   ROBERTSON,  AND   HIS 


conversation  held  with  a  lady  whose  husband 
had  been  taken  prisoner  by  Burgoyne.  She  had 
justreturned  from  America,  and  told  Archibald, 
among  other  things,  that  New  Englanders 
were  accustomed  to  join  their  garments  with 
thorns,  and  that  fabulous  sums  had  been 
offered  her  by  the  natives  for  the  small  stock 
of  pins  and  needles  she  had  happened  to  pos- 
sess. Robertson  failed  to  reflect  that  America 
then  depended  upon  Great  Britain  for  the 
products  of  her  manufactories,  and  was  at  the 


eral  Washington  to  add  to  the  Earl's  private 
collection  in  Dryburgh  Abbey,  and  to  present 
to  the  new  President  of  the  United  States 
the  celebrated  Wallace  box  as  a  token  of 
the  donor's  high  personal  esteem.  Robert- 
son fully  appreciated  the  compliment.  He 
readily  undertook  the  trust,  and  four  months 
later  was  presented  to  General  Washington  at 
Philadelphia,  the  then  seat  of  government, 
by  Tench  Coxe,  Esq.,  who  had  previously 
prepared  the  way  for  his  reception.    The  Wal- 


COMMODORE     THOMAS     TRUXTON. 
(PAINTED     BY    ARCHIBALD     ROBERTSON,     1802.     OWNED    BY    A.    J.    ROBERTSON.) 


time  cut  off  from  all  foreign  commerce  by  the 


war. 


It  was  therefore  in  the  spirit  of  adventure, 
and  not  with  any  serious  intention  to  remain, 
that  he  crossed  the  ocean,  and  arrived  at  New 
York  the  2d  of  October,  1791.  He  found  the 
country,  contrary  to  his  expectations,  anything 
but  a  scene  of  savagery.  So  agreeably  was 
he  surprised,  in  fact,  that  he  soon  came  to 
the  resolution  to  make  it  his  home. 

Peculiarly  fortunate  circumstances  heralded 
Robertson's  advent  to  the  Western  continent. 
The  Earl  of  Buchan,  hearing  of  his  intended 
departure,  requested  an  interview  at  Edin- 
burgh.1 The  object  of  this  meeting  was 
to  confide  to  the  artist  two  important  com- 
missions, viz. :  to  obtain  the  portrait  of  Gen- 

1  Robertson's  personal  account. 


lace  box,  within  which  was  inclosed  the  letter 
of  introduction,  was  about  four  inches  long, 
three  broad,  two  deep,  and  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  thick.  It  was  made  of  six  pieces  of  the 
heart  of  the  oak  tree  that  sheltered  Sir  Wil- 
liam Wallace  after  the  battle  of  Falkirk.  The 
outside  was  finely  varnished.  An  elegant  silver 
binding  united  the  whole ;  and  the  lid,  open- 
ing upon  hinges  one-third  the  way  down  the 
side,  had  a  silver  plate  inside,  inscribed  :  "  Pre- 
sented by  the  Goldsmiths  of  Edinburgh  to 
David  Stuart  Erskine,  Earl  of  Buchan,  with 
the  freedom  of  their  Corporation,  by  their 
Deacon,  1791." 

The  written  inclosure  ran  as  follows : 

Dryburgh  Abbey,  June  28th,  1 79 1 . 
Sir  :   I  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  Excellency's 
letter  relating  to  the  advertisement  of  Dr.  Ander- 


PORTRAITS  OF  THE    WASHINGTON'S. 


son's  periodical  publication  in  the  "  Gazette  of  the 
United  States"  ;  which  attention  to  my  recommen- 
dation I  feel  very  sensibly,  and  return  you  my  grateful 
acknowledgments.  In  the  twenty-first  number  of 
that  literary  miscellany  I  inserted  a  monitory  paper 
respecting  America,  which  I  flatter  myself  may,  if 
attended  to  on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic,  be 
productive  of  good  consequences.  To  use  your  own 
emphatic  words,  may  that  Almighty  Being,  who 
rules  over  the  universe,  who  presides  in  the  councils 
of  nations,  and  whose  providential  aid  can  supply 
every  human  defect,  consecrate  to  the  liberties  and 
happiness  of  the  American  people  a  government  in- 
stituted by  themselves  for  public  and  private  secur- 
ity, upon  the  basis  of  law  and  equal  administration 
of  justice,  preserving  to  every  individual  as  much 
civil  and  political  freedom  as  is  consistent  with  the 
safety  of  the  nation  ;  and  may  he  be  pleased  to  con- 
tinue your  life  and  strength  as  long  as  you  can  be  in 
any  way  useful  to  your  country. 

I  have  intrusted  this  sheet,  inclosed  in  a  box  made 
of  the  oak  that  sheltered  our  great  Sir  William 
Wallace  after  the  battle  of  Falkirk,  to  Mr.  Robert- 
son of  Aberdeen,  a  painter,  with  the  hope  of  his 
having  the  honor  of  delivering  it  into  your  hands, 
recommending  him  as  an  able  artist,  seeking  for 
fortune  and  fame  in  the  New  World.  This  box  was 
presented  to  me  by  the  Goldsmiths'  Company  at 
Edinburgh,  to  whom,  feeling  my  own  unworthiness 
to  receive  this  magnificently  significant  present, 
I  requested  and  obtained  leave  to  make  it  over  to 
the  man  in  the  world  to  whom  I  thought  it  most 
justly  due.  Into  your  hands  I  commit  it,  request- 
ing of  you  to  pass  it,  in  the  event  of  your  decease, 
to  the  man  in  your  own  country  who  shall  appear 
to  your  judgment  to  merit  it  best  upon  the  same 
considerations  that  have  induced  me  to  send  it  to 
your  Excellency. 

I  am  with  the  highest  esteem,  Sir, 
Your  Excellency's  most  obedient 
And  obliged  humble  servant, 

Buchan. 
General  Washington, 

President  of  the  United  States  of  America. 

P.S.  —  I  begyour  Excellency  will  havethegoodness 
to  send  me  your  portrait,  that  I  may  place  it  among 
those  I  most  honor,  and  I  would  wish  it  from  the 
pencil  of  Mr.  Robertson.  I  begleaveto  recommend 
him  to  your  countenance,  as  he  has  been  mentioned 
to  me  favorably  by  my  worthy  friend  Professor 
Ogilvie,  of  King's  College,  Aberdeen. 

Robertson  has  left  an  account  of  this  first 
interview  and  subsequent  work,  in  the  follow- 
ing words : 

The  bearer  of  Lord  Buchan's  compliments,  al- 
though familiarly  accustomed  to  intimate  intercourse 
with  those  of  the  highest  rank  and  station  in  his 
native  country,  never  felt  as  he  did  on  his  first  in- 
troduction to  the  American  hero.  The  excitation  in 
the  mind  of  the  stranger  was  evidently  obvious  to 
Washington,  for  from  his  ordinary  cold  and  distant 
address  he  declined  into  the  most  easy  and  familiar 
intercourse  in  conversation,  with  a  view  to  disem- 
barrass his  visitor  from  the  agitation  excited  by  the 
presence  of  a  man  whose  exalted  character  had 
impressed  him  with  highest  sentiments  of  respect 
and  veneration  for  such  lofty  virtue.    Washington 


easily  penetrated  into  the  heart  and  feelings  of  Lord 
Buchan's  friend,  and  he  left  no  means  untried  to  make 
him  feel  perfectly  at  ease  in  his  company  during  the 
period  he  intended  to  spend  with  him  in  Philadelphia. 
The  General,  not  finding  his  efforts  altogether  suc- 
cessful, introduced  him  to  Mrs. Washington,  whose 
easy,  polished,  and  familiar  gaiety,  and  ceaseless 
cheerfulness,  almost  accomplished  acure,  by  theaid 


MARTHA    WASHINGTON. 

(FROM   THE   MINIATURE   FROM    LIFE    BV   ARCHIBALD    ROBERTSON, 

1791-92.       OWNED     BY   THE    ARTIST'S    GRANDDAUGHTER.) 

of  her  grandchildren,  G.  W.  P.  Custis  and  Miss 
Eleanor  Custis,  afterwards  Mrs.  Lewis  and  wife 
to  the  nephew  of  General  Washington. 

Another  effort  of  the  first  President  to  compose 
his  guest  was  at  a  family  dinnerparty,  in  which  the 
General,  contrary  to  his  usual  habits,  engrossed  most 
of  the  conversation  at  the  table,  and  so  delighted 
the  company  with  humorous  anecdotes  that  he  re- 
peatedly set  the  table  in  a  roar ;  the  result  of  these 
attentions  the  General  now  perceived  had  nearly 
produced  a  radical  change,  and  to  have  the  desired 
effect  of  fitting  the  artist  for  the  task  he  had  under- 
taken for  Lord  Buchan,  in  making  as  good  a  likeness 
of  Washington  as  he  possibly  could.  The  artist  be- 
ing now  prepared,  and  left  to  his  own  direction  in 
the  manner  and  way  he  should  proceed  in  his  pro- 
cess, preferred  making  his  original  first  attempt  in 
miniature,  on  ivory,  in  water-colors.  Pari  passu, 
he  at  the  same  time  painted  a  likeness  of  Mrs. 
Washington  as  a  mate  to  the  General's. 

The  original  one  painted  for  Lord  Buchan  was  in 
oils,  and  of  a  size  corresponding  to  those  of  the 
collection  of  portraits  of  the  most  celebrated  wor- 
thies in  liberal  principles  and  in  useful  literature  in 
the  possession  of  his  lordship  at  Dryburgh  Abbey, 
near  Melrose,  on  the  borders  of  Scotland.1 

The  only  other  outsiders  at  the  family  din- 
ner party  just  described  were  the  two  secreta- 
ries of  the  General,  Major  Jackson  and  Colonel 
Lear,  and  Colonel  John  Trumbull,  who  after- 

1  Extract  from  original  manuscript  of  Archibald 
Robertson,  in  possession  of  his  granddaughter,  Mrs. 
C.  W.  Darling,  of  Utica,  N.  Y. 


8 


ARCHIBALD   ROBERTSON,   AND   HIS 


GEORGE    WASHINGTON.      (WATER-COLOR     PAINTING     ON     MARBLE,     FROM    LIFE,     BY    ARCHIBALD    ROBERTSON,     1791. 

OWNED    BY    THE    ARTIST'S     DAUGHTER.) 


wards  became  a  stanch  friend  and  admirer 
of  the  Scotchman.  Robertson  writes  further 
of  the  event : 

The  dinner  at  three  o'clock  was  plain,  but  suitable 
for  a  family  in  genteel  circumstances.  There  was 
nothing  especially  remarkable  at  the  table  but  that 
the  General  and  Mrs.  Washington  sat  side  by  side 
—  he  on  the  right  of  his  lady,  the  gentlemen  on 
his  right  hand,  and  the  ladies  on  his  left.  It  being 
on  Saturday,  the  first  course  was  mostly  of  Eastern 
cod  and  fresh  fish.  A  few  glasses  of  wine  were 
drank  during  dinner,  with  other  beverage.  The 
whole  closed  with  a  few  glasses  of  sparkling  cham- 
pagne, in  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  when 
the  General  and  Colonel  Lear  retired,  leaving  the 
ladies  in  high  glee  about  Lord  Buchan  and  the 
Wallace  box. 

It  was  nearly  a  year  before  the  following  re- 
ply to  the  Earl's  epistle  was  dictated  : 

Philadelphia,  May  I,  1792. 

My  Lord  :  1  should  have  had  the  honor  of  acknow- 
ledging the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  28th  of  June 
last,  had  1  not  concluded  todefer doing  it  till  I  could 


announce  to  you  the  transmission  of  my  portrait, 
which  has  just  been  finished  by  Mr.  Robertson  (of 
New  York),  who  has  also  undertaken  to  forward  it. 
The  manner  of  the  execution  of  it  does  no  discredit, 
I  am  told,  to  the  artist,  of  whose  skill  favorable 
mention  has  been  made  to  me.  I  was  further  in- 
duced to  intrust  the  execution  to  Mr.  Robertson, 
from  his  having  informed  me  that  he  had  drawn 
others  for  your  Lordship  and  knew  the  size  which 
best  suited  your  collection.  I  accept  with  sensibil- 
ity and  satisfaction  the  significant  present  of  the 
box  which  accompanied  your  Lordship's  letter. 

In  yielding  the  tribute  due  from  every  lover  of 
mankind  to  the  patriotic  and  heroic  virtues  of  which 
it  is  commemorative,  I  estimate  as  I  ought  the  ad- 
ditional value  which  it  derives  from  the  hand  that 
sent  it,  and  my  obligation  for  the  sentiments  that 
induced  the  transfer.  I  will,  however,  ask  that  you 
will  exempt  me  from  compliance  with  the  request 
relating  to  its  eventual  destination.  In  an  attempt 
to  execute  your  wish  in  this  particular  I  should  feel 
embarrassment  from  a  just  comparison  of  relative 
pretensions,  and  fear  to  risk  injustice  by  so  marked 
a  preference. 


PORTRAITS   OF  THE    WASHING  TONS. 


With  sentiments  of  the  truest  esteem  and  consid- 
eration, I  remain  your  Lordship's 

Most  obedient  servant, 

G.  Washington. 
Earl  of  Buchan. 

In  passing  it  may  be  said  that  the  Wallace 
box  was  ultimately  returned  to  its  donor  by  the 
terms  of  Washington's  will.  The  Earl  after- 
wards sent  it  again  to  America.  On  its  way 
from  New  York  to  Philadelphia  the  trunk  in 
which  it  was  placed  was  stolen  from  the  back 
of  the  stage.  Advertisements  and  the  offer  of 
liberal  reward  failed  to  restore  the  missing  treas- 
ure, and  no  clue  was  ever  found  to  the  thieves. 

For  some  reason  the  delivery  of  the  portrait 
and  the  letter  was  delayed.  In  April  of  the 
next  year  Robertson  was  the  recipient  of  the 
following  note  from  Washington's  secretary : 

Philadelphia,  April  26,  1793. 
Sir:  The  President  of  the  United  States  received 
a  letter  a  few  days  ago  from  the  Earl  of  Buchan, 
though  of  an  old  date, —  October,  1 792, —  in  which 
he  acknowledges  the  receipt  of  a  letter  from  the 
President,  dated  in  June,  but  observes  that  he  has 
not  received  that  which  had  been  written  on  the 
1st  of  May  preceding,  and  committed  to  your  care  to 
be  forwarded  with  the  Earl's  picture  ;  neither  had  the 
picture  reached  his  hands  at  the  time  of  writing  his 
letter  in  October. 

The  President  directs  me  to  give  you  this  informa- 
tion in  order  that,  if  it  should  be  in  your  power, 
you  may  endeavor  to  find  out  what  has  been  the  fate 
of  the  picture,  if  sent,  and  the  President's  letter. 
I  am,  Sir, 

Your  most  obed.  serv't, 

Tobias  Lear. 
Mr.  Archibald  Robertson. * 

The  portrait  of  Washington  for  Lord  Buchan 
was  eventually  committed  to  the  charge  of 
Colonel  Lear,  then  occupied  on  a  mission  to 
Europe.  The  following  letter  accompanied 
the  gift  : 

My  Lord:  With  pleasure  I  take  the  opportunity 
which  now  offers  to  transmit  to  your  Lordship  the 
portrait  of  the  President,  the  Illustrious  Hero  of 
America,  the  brave  Washington.  Tobias  Lear,  Esqr., 
his  Secretary,  a  gentleman  of  the  most  amiable  and 
respectable  character,  is  the  person  who  now  favors 
me  in  transmitting  this,  with  the  picture,  to  your 
Lordship,  who  I  hope  will  arrive  safe  in  Europe. 
The  short  notice  I  have  had  of  his  intended  voyage 
has  prevented  me  having  it  in  my  power  to  prepare 
some  other  matters  for  your  Lordship,  but  1  shall 
embrace  the  first  opportunity.  As  Mr.  Lear  will 
have  the  pleasure  to  see  your  Lordship,  it  prevents 
me  mentioning  matters  of  importance  with  which 
he  is  better  acquainted.  As  I  esteem  the  picture  as 
the    best  likeness  of   General    Washington  I  have 

1  Copy  of  original  letter  in  joint  possession  of  the 
granddaughters  of  Archibald  Robertson  —  Mrs.  S.  M. 
Mygatt,  of  Paris,  France,  and  Mrs.  C.  W.  Darling, 
of  Utica,  N.  Y.  In  accordance  with  the  custom  of  the 
times,  the  letter-sheet  is  simply  folded,  and  on  the  outer 
side  is  inscribed,  "  Mr.  Archibald  Robertson,  New 
Vol.  XL.— 2. 


attempted,  I  should  be  proud  to  be  informed  of 
your  Lordship's  opinion  of  it,  and  whether  you  can 
trace  anything  of  the  sublime  character  of  the  origi- 
nal in  this  humble  copy.  I  have  endeavored  not 
only  to  convey  the  form  of  the  features,  but  the 
characteristic  look  of  the  countenance  ;  and  the  ex- 
pression of  the  eyes,  with  the  particular  character 
of  each,  as  well  as  the  tout  ensemble  of  the  expres- 
sion. His  countenance  possesses  an  open,  benignant 
look,  which  is  a  very  attractive  characteristic;  at  the 
same  time  that  the  dignity  of  his  manners  commands 
the  highest  respect.  But  words  are  wanted  to  convey 
to  you  the  idea  of  a  person  whose  person  and  charac- 
ter are  the  objects  of  so  high  veneration  and  esteem. 
I  remain,  My  Lord,  your  Lordship's 
Most  Respectfully, 

Archibald  Robertson. 
89  William  St.,  New  York,  Nov.  8,  1793. 

Colonel  Lear  delivered  the  picture  safely  at 
its  destination.  In  a  subsequent  letter  of  thanks 
to  the  artist  the  Earl  expressed  his  entire  sat- 
isfaction with  the  result. 

During  the  time  that  Robertson  remained  at 
the  Executive  Mansion  he  painted,  besides  the 
miniatures  of  General  and  Mrs.  Washington 
and  the  large  oil-portrait,  a  smaller  one  of  the 
General.2  This  is  in  water-colors  on  a  marble 
slab,  measuring  9x12  inches.  It  is  owned  by 
the  only  surviving  daughter  of  the  artist,  Mrs. 
M.  M.  Craft,  of  New  York.  This  likeness  is 
one  of  the  finest  originals  extant.  Its  softness 
and  delicacy  of  tone  are  unrivaled.  The  sub- 
ject is  a  three-quarter  view,  clad  in  a  peach- 
blow  coat,  with  broad  white  ruffle  down  the 
front.  Mention  of  it  thus  appears  in  Trumbull's 
list  of  authenticated  originals  : 

Robertson,  1792,  painted  one — in  his  own  posses- 
sion, 79  Liberty  Street,  New  York. 

Trumbull  was  president  of  the  Academy  of 
Fine  Arts  in  1824.  In  that  year,  under  date  of 
September  20,  appeared  in  a  journal  a  criticism 
by  him  upon  original  portraits  of  Washington, 
from  which  the  following  lines  are  extracted  : 

If  we  would  behold  the  countenance  of  Wash- 
ington in  his  best  days,  we  must  seek  it  in  Hou- 
don's  bust;  ...  if  we  desire  to  know  his  aspect 
when  he  began  to  wane  and  had  lost  his  teeth, 
Robertson's  portrait  is  the  best ;  he  and  Stuart  only 
make  him  looking  at  the  spectator. 

This  opinion  is  of  peculiar  value,  as  being 
the  decision  of  one  who  was  brought  into 
constant  and  intimate  relations  with  Wash- 
ington. 

In  removing  the  picture  of  Washington  from 
its  frame  in  order  to  prepare  it  for  illustration, 
there  was  discovered  in  the  back  the  original 

York."     In    the    lower    left-hand   corner    is  written, 
"  President,  U.  S." 

2  That  these  three  of  Washington  were  all  painted 
from  life  is  the  statement  of  Robertson  himself,  as  re- 
lated by  both  his  son  and  daughter  now  living  (March, 
1890). 


IO 


ARCHIBALD   ROBERTSON,   AND  HIS 


draught  of  Robertson's  letter  to  the  Earl  of 
Buchan,  containing  his  personal  estimate  of 
his  own  work.  Also  an  odd  affidavit  of  the 
present  of  two  locks  of  hair  from  the  heads  of 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Washington,  with  the  hair  itself 
curiously  preserved.  Two  circles  were  cut  in 
the  paper  in  which  the  hair  was  inserted,  the 
latter  being  protected  by  a  piece  of  transparent 
oily  material  on  the  surface  with  black  silk 
underneath.  This  discovery  was  a  surprise  to 
the  writer.  The  document  had  probably  been 
placed  there  by  Judge  Robertson,  who,  thirty 
years  ago,  was  the  owner  of  the  portrait.  It 
reads  as  follows  : 

WASHINGTON    AND    WIFE'S    HAIR,    JUNE,     I  783. 

The  locks  of  hair  below  is  part  of  that  which  was 
sent  to  Major  Billings  of  Poughkeepsie,  inclosed  in 
a  letter,  of  which  the  following  is  an  exact  copy. 
The  original  is  in  possession  of  the  Major's  grand- 
son, W.  J.  Street,  counselor  at  law,  of  this  city, 
who  gave  me  the  hair. 

T.  W.  C.  Moore. 

New  York,  March  24,  1857. 

Newburg,  June  17,  1783. 
Sir,  By  some  mistake  or  other  the  Horse  was  not 
sent  for  yesterday.  The  Dragoon  comes  up  for  him 
now  and  those  small  tools  which  you  conceived  might 
be  useful  to  me  —  among  which  I  pray  you  to  send 
me  a  small  file  or  two, —  one  of  which  to  be  very 
thin,  so  much  so  as  to  pass  between  the  teeth  if  oc- 
casion should  require  it,  another  one  round. 

Have  you  been  able  to  satisfy  yourself  of  the 
practicability  and  means  of  coloring  sealing-wax  ? 
If  so,  can  you  bring  the  stick  I  now  send  to  the 
complexion  which  is  wanted? 

Mrs.  Washington  sends  you  a  lock  of  both  our 
hair.     (Inclosed.) 

I  am  with  much  regard 

Sir,  your  very  Hble.  Serv. 

G°-  Washington. 
"Private."     Major  Billings  at  Poughkeepsy. 


hair     of 


GEORGE   WASHINGTON. 


MARTHA   WASHINGTON. 


O 


O 


Popular  opinion  has  been  somewhat  at  va- 
riance in  regard  to  the  exact  number  of  Wash- 
ington miniatures  produced  by  Robertson. 

The  first  sittings  for  the  first  miniatures  of 
the  General  and  his  wife  which  Archibald  Rob- 
ertson painted  were  held  in  the  latter  part  of 
December,  1791,  and  were  completed  the 
next  month.  These  miniatures  were  carefully 
preserved  by  the  artist,  as  he  himself  records, 
"  to  remain  in  his  family  as  an  heirloom,  and 
memorial  of  his  veneration  for  the  great  and 
successful  champion  of  American  liberty." 
His  wishes  were  respected,  and  these  exquisite 
gems,  set  as  brooches,  are  among  the  most 


cherished  possessions  of  his  granddaughters, 
Mrs.  S.  M.  Mygatt  and  Mrs,  C.  W.  Darling. 

In  Dunlap's  biography  of  Robertson  he  men- 
tions that  the  larger  portrait  of  Washington, 
painted  for  the  Earl  of  Buchan,  was  enlarged 
from  the  miniature  just  mentioned.  The  art- 
ist's son  says  that  the  only  explanation  he  can 
make  of  this  statement  is  that,  as  Washing- 
ton was  a  notoriously  bad  sitter,  Robertson 
used  his  "first  attempt"  as  the  basis  for  his 
work,  and  gave  the  finishing  touches  from  life. 
This  explanation  would  reconcile  the  apparent 
contradiction  of  two  authorities. 

An  original  of  Martha  Washington  is  in  the 
possession  of  the  Custis  family. 

The  authenticity  of  other  supposed  "  Rob- 
ertsons "  is  questionable. 

Soon  after  his  arrival  Archibald  wrote  to 
his  brother  Alexander,  whom  he  had  left  be- 
hind studying  the  same  art  under  Shelley,  to 
follow  him.  This  invitation  was  accepted 
the  next  year  (1792),  and  the  brothers  im- 
mediately opened  the  Columbian  Academy 
of  Painting,  at  79  Liberty  street,  New  York. 
Here  were  taught  the  fine  arts,  including 
architecture,  in  which  Archibald  had  been 
grounded  by  his  father,  who  was  an  architect 
by  profession.  The  school  flourished  with  un- 
varying success  for  upwards  of  thirty  years. 
Among  its  pupils  was  John  Vanderlyn.  Alex- 
ander Robertson  was  one  of  the  original 
incorporators  of  what  afterwards  became  the 
gigantic  public-school  system  of  New  York 
City. 

At  the  time  these  two  brothers  came  to 
America,  a  third  and  elder  brother,  named 
Andrew,  was  already  establishing  a  reputation 
for  himself  in  London.  He  had  previously  taken 
his  degree  at  Marischal  College  in  Aberdeen, 
where  Dr.  Beattie  held  the  position  of  Profes- 
sor of  Natural  Philosophy.  A  fine  miniature 
of  the  poet  by  Andrew  is  in  the  possession  of  a 
niece  of  the  artist,  Mrs.  M.  M.  Craft.  In  it  the 
allegorical  conception  is  evidently  borrowed 
from  Reynolds's  treatment  of  the  same  sub- 
ject, in  which  Beattie  is  seen  seated  beside  an 
angel  representing  Truth,  who  is  pushing  down 
Ignorance,  Error,  and  Superstition.  The  por- 
trait, however,  has  the  advantage  of  a  per- 
sonal intimacy  between  sitter  and  delineator. 
At  the  outset  of  his  career  Andrew  won  the 
particular  approbation  of  Benjamin  West. 
West  sat  to  him  for  his  portrait,  and  advised 
and  encouraged  him  in  his  studies.  Andrew 
justified  his  patron's  partiality.  For  over 
twenty  years  he  was  regarded  as  one  of  t«he 
first  rank  in  his  art,  his  practice  at  court 
being  extensive.  He  was  formally  appointed 
painter  to  the  Duke  of  Sussex,  and  in  181 2 
painted  the  princesses  at  Windsor  and  the 
Prince  Regent.   A  collection  of  miniatures  by 


PORTRAITS   OF  THE    WASHING  TONS. 


ii 


his  hand  is  now  in  the  Kensington  Museum. 
Andrew  was  a  creditable  performer  on  the 
violin,  and  this  bond  of  sympathy  cemented  a 
friendship  between  himself  and  Niel  Gow,  the 
somewhat  eccentric  character  who  for  years 
was  regarded  as  a  necessary  adjunct  to  all  fash- 
ionable routs  in  the  great  metropolis.  Gow's 
execution  of  Scotch  tunes  was  considered 
inimitable,  and  the  artist  has  left  on  ivory  an 
appropriate  production  of  the  minstrel  plying 
his  vocation.  This  was  painted  about  1780, 
and  is  owned  by  Mrs.  M.  M.  Craft.  Upon 
retiring  from  practice,  the  foremost  miniature 
painters  in  London  united  in  presenting  An- 
drew with  a  piece  of  plate,  and  unanimously 
termed  him  "  the  father  of  their  profession." 
A  valuable  treatise  on  miniature  painting, 
detailing  every  part  of  the  process,  with  illus- 
trations for  each  successive  sitting,  was  com- 
posed by  Andrew  for  his  brothers.  This  work 
was  published  in  America,  and  became  an  au- 
thority on  the  art. 

It  was  in  the  New  World  that  Archibald 
Robertson  met  Miss  Eliza  Abramse,  whom  he 
married  in  December,  1794.  A  pastel  of  the 
young  lady,  made  by  him  at  the  time,  shows 
that  she  possessed  much  charm  of  feature.  This 
conclusion  is  corroborated  by  several  other 
portraits  of  his  wife  painted  by  Robertson  in 
the  early  years  of  their  marriage,  one  of  which 
—  a  water-color  on  marble  —  is  considered 
among  his  best  efforts.  This  portrait  is  on  a  slab 
measuring  eight  by  nine  inches.  Unfortunately, 
it  was  broken  some  years  ago,  but  the  parts 
were  skillfully  reunited.  It  is  owned  by  Mrs. 
Craft,  who  has  also  in  her  possession  two  deli- 
cate miniatures  of  her  parents,  painted  by 
Archibald  in  1 7  9  7 .  Robertson  has  reproduced 
himself  in  the  domestic  costume  of  the  day, 
with  powdered  queue.  But  the  best  like- 
ness of  the  artist  which  he  has  transmitted  to 
his  descendants  is  an  oil  portrait  on  wood, 
painted  about  1830  by  his  friend  Waldo.  A 
three-quarters  life-size  canvas  of  Mrs.  Robert- 
son was  completed  about  the  same  date  by 
Waldo  and  Jewett  together. 

In  1 833  a  memorandum  relating  to  Mrs.  Rob- 
ertson's ancestry  was  made  by  her  husband. 
It  is  interesting  as  an  authentic  account  of  the 
condition  of  New  York  City  in  the  early  part 
of  the  present  century,  by  one  on  the  spot. 
It  also  corroborates  the  origin  of  the  nomen- 
clature of  several  of  its  best-known  streets. 

Jacob  Abramse,  Jr.,  father  of  Mrs.  Robertson, 
.  .  .  was  son  of  Jacob  Abramse,  Sr.,  and  Magda- 
lena  Lispenard.  Jacob,  Jr.,  was  the  last  male  that 
held  the  surname  of  Abramse,  of  an  ancient  Dutch 

1  Anthony  Lispenard  Robertson  was  Assistant  Vice 
Chancellor  in  1846-48;  Surrogate  of  New  York  City 
in  1848;  and  in  1859  was  elected  a  judge  of  the  Supe- 
rior Court.    In  1864  he  was  elected  for  a  second  term, 


family,  who  were  among  the  original  settlers  of  New 
York.  Their  homestead  was  located  in  Wall  Street, 
a  portion  of  which  is  now  known  as  numbers  52, 
54,  56,  58,  etc.,  at  that  period  reaching  through  to 
Pine  Street,  nearly  opposite  the  Merchants'  Ex- 
change, and  now  owned  by  the  Mutual  and  Howard 
Insurance  companies  and  others.   .   .   . 

Magdalena  Lispenard,  mother  of  Jacob  Abramse, 
Jr.,  was  a  daughter  of  one  of  the  French  Protestant 
exiles  who  came  to  New  Rochelle  after  the  revocation 
of  the  Edict  of  Nantes.  Her  brother,  Anthony  Leonard 
Lispenard,  who  married  Alicia  Rutgers,  owned  the 
tract  of  land  so  long  called  Lispenard's  Meadows, 
which  was  bounded  south  by  the  New  York  Hospital 
and  St.  John's  Park,  east  by  Broadway,  north  by 
Spring  Street,  and  west  by  the  North  River.  In  the 
year  1 8 1 5  it  was  an  open  out-of-town  meadow,  with  a 
large  pond  in  the  midst ;  but  now,  1833,  it  is  fitted 
up  with  streets,  the  principal  of  which  is  Canal 
Street,  that  now  stands  on  the  site  of  the  brook 
which  flowed  from  the  Collect,  where  the  arsenal 
now  is,  into  Lispenard's  Pond,  which  ran  into  a  creek 
from  the  North  River;  all  being  at  this  time  nearly 
in  the  center  of  the  city. 

The  Common  Council  of  the  city  have,  although 
having  overlooked  the  name  of  Abramse,  done  am- 
ple justice  to  the  memory  of  Lispenard,  in  Anthony, 
and  Leonard,  and  Lispenard  streets,  which  are  located 
on  the  site  of  the  family  homestead,  a  portion  of 
which  is  still  in  the  possession  of  the  descendants  in 
female  line  of  old  Uncle  Lispenard,  chiefly  in  that  of 
Alexander  L.  Stewart,  who  married  a  granddaugh- 
ter of  his. 

Abigail  Lispenard,  sister  of  Magdalena  and  An- 
thony, was  the  wife  of  Jacobus  Bleecker  of  New  Ro- 
chelle, and  grandmother  of  James  Bleecker,  the 
auctioneer,  and  of  the  numerous  family  of  Bleeckers 
of  New  York,  the  memorial  of  whose  surname  is 
recorded  in  that  of  Bleecker  Street. 

Five  sons  and  three  daughters  were  born  to 
the  couple.  Of  these,  two  sons  attained  public 
prominence  —  Anthony  Lispenard,1  who  was 
chosen  Chief-Justice  of  the  Superior  Court  in 
1866,  having  for  twenty  years  held  various 
public  offices ;  and  Alexander  Hamilton, 
who  became  Deputy  Register  and  afterwards 
Deputy  County  Clerk.  At  the  time  of  the  lat- 
ter's  death,  in  1846,  he  was  Grand  Master  of 
the  Grand  Lodge  of  the  Order  of  Free  and 
Accepted  Masons  in  the  State  of  New  York. 
His  funeral  was  the  occasion  of  unusual  and 
impressive  Masonic  solemnities. 

This  son  was  named  after  the  eminent  states- 
man, whom  Archibald  highly  esteemed.  Rob- 
ertson considered  a  portrait  of  Hamilton  to  be 
a  fitting  companion  piece  to  his  production  on 
marble  of  Washington.  Shortly  before  the  fatal 
duel  of  1804  he  painted  Hamilton's  features 
on  a  similar  slab.  For  many  years  the  por- 
traits of  these  two  representative  men  of  a  great 
nation  hung  either  side  of  the  wide  fireplace  in 

and  in  1866  he  was  chosen  Chief-Justice  of  the  court. 
In  1867  he  was  a  member  of  the  State  Constitutional 
Convention,  and  took  an  active  part  in  its  proceed- 
ings.   He  died  December  18,  1868. 


12 


ARCHIBALD   ROBERTSON,   AND   HIS 


the  reception-room  of  the  artist.  That  of  Wash- 
ington still  remains,  carefully  preserved  by  his 
descendants.  The  fate  of  the  other  is  unknown.1 

At  the  beginning  of  this  century  there  was 
little  to  forward  the  progress  of  painting  in  the 
United  States.  With  the  exception  of  Peak's 
Columbianum  and  the  Columbian  Academy 
of  Fine  Arts,  no  attempt  had  been  made  to 
encourage  emulation  among  artists.  The  sub- 
ject had  not,  however,  been  overlooked.  Ear- 
nest deliberations  by  the  foremost  men  of  the  day 
were  held.  In  1802  Robertson  was  called  upon 
to  advise  with  regard  to  the  contemplated  art 
union.  But  it  was  not  until  six  years  later  that 
the  American  Academy  of  Arts  —  the  forerun- 
ner of  our  present  Academy  of  Design  —  was 
incorporated. 

The  history  of  the  vicissitudes  of  this  parent 
institution  spreads  over  a  quarter  of  a  century. 
It  began  as  an  experiment,  and,  like  all  such, 
had  advocates  for  several  methods  of  proced- 
ure. In  1818  its  affairs  were  in  a  turbulent 
state.  John  Trumbull  was  then  president; 
John  R.  Murray  held  the  vice-presidency.  Its 
directors  consisted  of  the  following  well-known 
names :  Cadwallader  D.  Colden,  William  Cut- 
ting, John  C.  Bogert,  David  Hosack,  Archi- 
bald Bruce,  Archibald  Robertson,  William 
Dunlap,  John  McComb,  Samuel  L.  Waldo, 
and  James  Renwick.  Alexander  Robertson 
was  secretary,  and  John  Pintard,  treasurer. 

A  contest  arose  as  to  the  advisability  of 
combining  instruction  with  the  exhibition  of 
pictures.  Archibald  Robertson  strenuously 
maintained  the  necessity  for  such  a  course. 
The  opposition,  led  by  Trumbull,  as  obsti- 
nately combated  it.  The  latter  party  tri- 
umphed, but  the  victory  proved  to  be  dearly 
won.  When  dissension  had  so  divided  the 
body  that  its  fall  was  merely  a  question  of 
time,  the  necessity  for  a  new  organization 
governed  by  new  laws  was  recognized.  That 
"the  president  opposed  the  opening  of  schools  " 
was  quoted  as  the  principal  cause  of  the  fail- 
ure of  this  institution,  which  was  finally  to  end 
a  melancholy  existence  under  the  hammer  of 
the  auctioneer.  Our  National  Academy  of 
Design,  incorporated  in  1826,  was  the  direct 
result  of  the  discontent  created  by  the  mis- 
takes of  its  predecessor. 

The  last  public  enterprise  in  which  Robert- 
son participated  was  in  1825  on  the  occasion 
of  the  formal  opening  of  the  Erie  Canal. 

Probably  no  event  in  the  history  of  the 
State  ever  excited  greater  enthusiasm  than  this 
triumph  of  human  labor.  The  long-contem- 
plated union  of  the  waters  of  the  lakes  with 

1  The  writer  has  been  unable  to  trace  the  present 
owner  of  this  portrait.  It  disappeared  at  the  time  of 
the  death  of  A.  H.  Robertson.  Information  on  the 
subject  would  be  gratefully  received. 


the  Atlantic  Ocean  had,  after  years  of  toil, 
been  brought  to  a  successful  consummation. 
Extensive  preparations  were  made  for  the 
grand  fete  to  celebrate  the  arrival  of  the  first 
canal-boat,  which  was  to  start  from  Buffalo,  com- 
ing straight  through  to  Sandy  Hook.  The  city  of 
New  York  was  aroused  to  special  effort,  and  the 
superintendence  of  the  whole  was  in  the  hands 
of  the  most  prominent  men  of  the  time.  Charles 
Rhind,2  cousin  of  Robertson,  occupied  the  re- 
sponsible position  of  "Admiral  of  the  Day." 

The  entire  charge  of  such  works  of  art  as 
the  event  required  was  left  to  the  discretion 
of  Robertson.  It  was  he  who  designed  the 
badge  worn  by  the  guests  on  the  day  of  the 
ceremonials.  This  device  was  afterwards  adopt- 
ed for  the  commemorative  medals  which  were 
presented  by  the  city  to  those  gentlemen  dis- 
tinguished for  public  services.  Gold  facsimiles 
were  forwarded  to  the  three  surviving  signers 
of  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  Charles 
Carroll,  Thomas  Jefferson,  and  John  Adams. 
Also  to  John  Quincy  Adams,  Monroe,  Madi- 
son, and  Lafayette.  The  medals  were  inclosed 
in  boxes  made  of  curious  woods  brought  from 
the  lakes.  Accompanying  this  gift  was  a  copy 
of  the  "  Memoir  of  the  Grand  Canal  Celebra- 
tion," compiled  by  Cadwallader  D.  Colden. 

Mr.  Colden  had  prepared  this  work,  by  re- 
quest of  the  corporation,  as  a  fitting  memento 
of  the  occasion  to  be  deposited  in  the  city 
archives.  The  illustrations  were  under  Rob- 
ertson's care.  They  are  curious  as  being  the 
first  impressions  made  from  the  first  litho- 
graphic press  ever  put  into  effectual  operation 
on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic.  Robertson  consid- 
ered the  discovery  of  the  new  art  of  lithographic 
printing,  with  which  the  Bavarian  inventor, 
Alois  Senefelder,  had  already  awakened  the 
interest  of  Europe,  as  "  a  most  invaluable  gift 
to  mankind  in  multiplying  with  facility  the 
works  of  the  first-rate  artists."  He  was  espe- 
cially desirous  to  have  the  process  obtain  a 
permanent  foothold  in  America.  Some  abor- 
tive attempts  had  been  previously  made,  but 
until  Anthony  Imbert  crossed  the  ocean  no 
practical  success  had  been  attained.  M. 
Imbert  was  a  French  naval  officer  who 
had  undergone  a  long  imprisonment  in  Eng- 
land. During  his  captivity  he  employed 
his  enforced  leisure  in  the  cultivation  of  his 
talent  for  the  fine  arts.  The  result  was  seen 
in  the  lithographic  office  he  was  later  en- 
abled to  open  in  New  York.  Through  the  in- 
fluence of  Robertson,  Imbert  was  permitted 
to  essay  the  illustrations  for  the  memoir. 

Robertson's  personal  contributions  to  this 

2  The  plenipotentiary  who,  in  1829,  made  the  treaty 
with  the  Grand  Turk  by  which  the  Black  Sea  was 
opened  to  the  commerce  of  the  United  States. 


PORTRAITS   OF  THE    WASHING  TONS. 


13 


work  were:  "  A  View  of  the  Fleet  Preparing  to 
Form  in  Line,"  made  on  the  spot  on  its  return 
from  the  Brooklyn  Navy  Yard  ;  and  two  maps 
—  one  exhibiting  the  course  of  the  canal,  the 
other  showing  its  connection  with  the  water- 
courses of  the  Northern  continent.  For  these, 
and  for  his  able  supervision  of  the  Department 
of  the  Fine  Arts,  the  thanks  of  the  city  corpora- 
tion, through  the  common  council,  were  for- 
mally tendered  to  him.  As  a  further  testimony 
of  their  approbation,  they  awarded  him  a 
silver  medal,  a  maple  box,  and  a  copy  of  Mr. 
Colden's  memoir. 

Robertson  spent  the  last  decade  of  his  life 
in  quiet  retirement  with  his  family.  The  tax- 
ing requirements  of  his  profession  had  left  him 
nearly  blind.  Some  miniatures  of  his  children, 
essayed  at  this  period,  pathetically  record  his 
affliction  in  their  crude  shadings  and  uncertain 
lines.  He  was  seized  with  apoplexy  in  his  sev- 
enty-first year,  and  died  suddenly  on  the  6th 
of  December,  1835.  His  widow  survived  him 
for  thirty  years. 

Archibald  Robertson  was  afflicted  with  that 
peculiar  bent  of  mind  that  is  so  often  an  attri- 
bute of  genius  —  the  depreciation  of  his  actual 
talent,  and  the  erroneous  belief  in  his  superior- 
ity in  another  direction.  His  skill  as  a  minia- 
ture painter,  which  ranked  him  among  the 
foremost  in  that  most  delicate  of  fine  arts,  he 
accepted  as  a  matter  of  course.  But  his  hobby 
was  scribbling.  Literary  pursuits  during  the 
whole  progress  of  his  life  had  employed  his 
time  as  much  as  the  exercise  of  his  profession. 
He  was  conversant  with  the  English,  French, 
German,  Latin,  Greek,  and  Hebrew  languages, 
besides,  as  he  modestly  affirms,  "  being  not  al- 
together unacquainted  with  the  construction 
of  shipbuilding."  In  1802  he  edited  a  treatise 
for  the  use  of  his  scholars  at  the  Columbian 
Academy,  entitled  "  Elements  of  the  Graphic 
Arts."1  Otherwise  few  of  his  productions  were 
ever  published,  but  stray  sheets  of  mazy  rhet- 
oric, dyed  with  a  century's  dust,  are  still  pre- 
served by  his  descendants. 

Only  a  preface  remains  of  the  one  work  he 
meditated  which  would  have  been  of  general 
interest.  This  was  a  personal  memoir.  His 
renown  as  an  artist  brought  him  into  intimate 
contact  with  many  contemporary  celebrities. 
In  this  respect  he  was  peculiarly  fitted  to  shine 
by  reason  of  his  early  associations  and  his 
polished  manners.  He  was,  to  use  the  quaint 
epithet,  a  gentleman  and  a   scholar,  having 


1  Published  by  David  Longworth,  "at  the  Shake- 
speare Gallery,  near  the  Theatre." 

2  The  writer's  authority  for  the  statements  regard- 
ing the  portraits  on  canvas  and  marble  is  based  upon 


studied  the  art  of  bowing,  as  he  himself  informs 
us,  under  Mr.  Francis  Peacock.  It  was  to  this 
same  Mr.  Peacock  that  he  owed  his  first,  and,  as 
he  always  maintained,  his  best,  lessons  in  minia- 
ture painting  •  the  principles  of  water-coloring 
being  taught  him  by  Mr.  Nesbitt,  while  to 
"  Mr.  William  Wales,  an  excellent  portrait 
painter,  his  first  acquaintance  with  oil  was  due." 

Robertson  was  a  prolific  painter.  His  scope 
was  varied,  and  included  widely  differing  sub- 
jects. In  the  minute  details  of  his  drawings  he 
was  exceedingly  exact.  This  characteristic  adds 
peculiar  value  to  his  early  maps  of  the  city  of 
New  York,  one  of  the  finest  of  which  is  now 
owned  by  Dr.  Thomas  Addis  Emmet.  He  was 
also  among  those  who  presented  designs  for  the 
City  Hall  and  other  public  buildings. 

A  characteristic  remark  has  been  preserved 
touching  the  artist's  experience  with  human 
nature.    Of  himself  he  writes : 

Prior  to  his  adopting  the  art  of  painting  as  his 
profession  he  was  extolled  as  a  great  genius.  How 
much  he  was  puffed  up  by  applause  he  will  not  dis- 
close, but  from  the  moment  he  adopted  the  pro- 
fession not  a  single  word  of  praise  has  he  received, 
and  the  only  way  he  could  discover  that  he  per- 
formed well  was  by  the  prices  he  received,  and  the 
practice  he  had  for  upwards  of  forty  years  on  this 
and  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic. 

It  is  impossible  at  this  date  to  give  a  list  of 
the  portraits  of  the  various  well-known  per- 
sons whom  Robertson  was  called  upon  to  paint. 
A  fine  example  of  his  skill,  in  the  possession  of 
his  son,  is  a  miniature,  painted  in  1802,  of  Com- 
modore Truxton,  commander  of  the  Constel- 
lation, whose  victories  over  French  frigates 
gained  for  him  the  award  of  a  gold  medal  by 
Congress.  In  this,  as  in  all  the  productions  of 
Robertson,  the  Scotch  origin  of  the  painter  is 
betrayed  in  what,  for  want  of  a  better  word, 
we  may  term  a  Scotch  rendering  of  his  subject. 
The  colors  are  laid  with  minute  delicacy.  The 
purity  and  freshness  of  the  tints  are  remarkably 
preserved,  considering  the  lapse  of  time.  This 
characteristic  leads  to  the  conjecture  that  the 
original  brilliancy  of  tone  was  purposely  ex- 
aggerated, in  order  that  the  miniatures  might 
fade  to  the  correct  appearance  when  viewed 
by  posterity. 

The  name  of  Archibald  Robertson  has  been 
occasionally  confounded  with  that  of  Walter 
Robertson,  an  Irish  artist  of  the  same  date. 
The  two  were  not  related.2 

Edith  Robertson  Cleveland. 

information  furnished  by  Robertson's  only  surviving 
daughter  and  son,  and  upon  the  artist's  own  memo- 
randa. 


SOME.  NEW    WASHINGTON    RELICS. 


I.— FROM    THE    COLLECTION    OF    MRS.  B.  W.  KENNON. 


T  the  beautiful  old  mansion 
of  Tudor  Place,  George- 
town, D.  C,  is  preserved 
a  most  interesting  collec- 
tion of  relics  of  Martha 
Washington ;  a  collection 
considerably  enhanced  in 
value  by  the  fact  that  the 
owner,  Mrs.  Brittania  W.  Kennon,  is  the  oldest 
living  descendant  of  Mrs.  Washington,  and 
therefore  nearly  allied,  not  only  by  right  of 
kinship,  but  of  years,  to  that  especial  period 
which  gave  to  these  articles  an  historic  value 
—  this  relationship  affording  indeed  a  direct 
source  of  information,  obtained  from  Mrs.  Ken- 
non's  mother,  Mrs.  Martha  Peter  [nee  Custis), 
of  much  that  otherwise  had  been  lost,  or  ren- 
dered less  certain  through  successive  tradition. 
In  the  will  of  Mrs.  Washington  occurs  the 
following,  "Item  :  I  give  and  bequeath  to  my 
granddaughter.  Martha  Peter,  my  writing- 
table  and  the  seat  to  it,  standing  in  my  cham- 
ber." This  little  writing-table  is  of  mahogany, 
quite  plain  in  design,  according  to  the  fashion 
of  the  period,  and  fitted  above  with  sliding 
doors  disclosing  oddly  shaped  compartments. 
The  accompanying  stool  is  about  two  feet 
square,  and  raised  only  eleven  inches  from  the 
floor;  the  seat  is  worked  in  wools  upon  coarse 
canvas,  the  monogram  "  M.  W.,"  done  in 
browns  and  yellows,  appearing  upon  a  black 
background.  In  this  desk,  at  the  time  of  Mrs. 
Washington's  death,  were  found  the  only  two 
existing  autograph  letters  written  to  her  by 
General  Washington  after  their  marriage. 
Sparks,  the  historian,  was  permitted  to  copy 
one  of  these  letters  for  publication,  while  the 
other  and  pendant,  written  on  the  eve  of 
General  Washington's  departure  from  Philadel- 
phia to  Boston,  to  take  command  of  the  Con- 
tinental army,  is  now  first  made  public : 

Philadelphia,  June  23d,  1775. 

My  Dearest:  As  I  am  within  a  few  minutes  of 
leaving  this  city,  I  could  not  think  of  departing  from 
it  without  dropping  you  a  line  ;  especially  as  I  do 
not  know  whether  it  may  be  in  my  power  to  write 
again  til  I  get  to  the  camp  at  Boston.  1  go  fully 
trusting  in  that  Providence,  which  has  been  more 
bountiful  to  me  than  I  deserve,  and  in  full  confi- 
dence of  a  happy  meeting  with  you  some  time  in  the 
fall. 

I  have  not  time  to  add  more  as  I  am  surrounded 
with  company  to  take  leave  of  me.  I  retain  an  un- 
alterable affection  for  you,  which  neither  time  or 
distance   can   change.      My  best  love  to  Jack  and 


Nelly,  and  regards  to  the  rest  of  the  Family,  con- 
cludes me  with  the  utmost  truth  and  sincerity 

Yr  entire 

G.  Washington. 

Mrs.  Kennon's  collection  contains  also  some 
notable  portraits  from  life  of  General  and  Mrs. 
Washington  and  John  Parke  Custis.  These 
portraits,  which  are  done  in  miniature,  and 
the  interesting  articles  here  shown,  are  now 
engraved  for  the  first  time. 

G.  W.  P.  Custis,  in  his  "  Recollections  of 
Washington,"  says  :  "  Washington  was  a  bad 
sitter.  It  annoyed  him  exceedingly  to  sit  at 
all,  and  after  every  sitting  he  was  wont  to 
declare  this  must  be  the  last."  It  is,  therefore, 
no  slight  tribute  to  Mrs.  Washington,  or  shal- 
low compliment  to  her  gentle  finesse,  that  the 
credit  for  so  large  a  number  of  his  portraitures 
is  due  her.  While  to  Mme.  de  Brienne,  Mrs. 
Powell,  and  the  indefatigable  Mrs.  Bingham  is 
given  rightful  meed  of  thanks  for  overcoming 
this  natural  inclination,  to  these  names  is  added 
still  another  in  presenting  this  hitherto  un- 
known miniature  by  Robertson,  the  execution 
of  which  was  inspired  by  a  request  made  on 
the  part  of  Miss  Martha  Custis  upon  the  eve 
of  her  marriage  to  Colonel  Peter  in  1794,  when 
she  wrote  to  General  Washington  at  Philadel- 
phia that  the  wish  nearest  her  heart  was  to 
possess  his  likeness  —  a  declaration  calling 
forth  an  exquisite  sense  of  humor  in  the  reply 
that  he  would,  with  pleasure,  comply  with  her 
request  and  sit  for  his  miniature,  but  he  never 
could  think  the  wish  nearest  a  young  girl's 
heart  on  the  eve  of  marriage  was  to  possess 
an  old  man's  picture.  This  sense  of  humor  is 
again  made  evident  in  his  answer  to  a  letter 
containing  a  similar  request  from  her  sister, 
Miss  Eliza  Parke  Custis,  bearing  date  of  Phila- 
delphia, September  14,  1794,  and  beginning, 
"  When  you  are  as  near  the  pinnacle  of  happi- 
ness as  your  sister  Patsy  conceives  herself  to 
be";  and  again:  "It  not  being  within  the 
bounds  of  probability  that  the  contemplation 
of  an  inanimate  thing,  whatever  might  be  the 
reflections  arising  from  the  possession  of  it, 
can  be  the  only  wish  of  your  heart." 

The  Peter  miniature,  painted  upon  ivory,  is 
given  with  an  exquisite  delicacy  and  coloring, 
especially  in  the  treatment  of  the  eyes,  which 
are  of  light  grayish-blue,  accurately  according 
with  Stuart's  remark,  as  quoted  by  G.  W.  P. 
Custis,  regarding  his  own  portraiture  of  Wash- 
ington in  oil,  that  he  would  paint  them  of  a 


m 


SOME   NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


*5 


deeper  blue,  and  "  in  a  hundred  years  they  will 
have  faded  to  the  right  color."  The  coloring 
of  the  complexion,  generally  of  a  delicate 
tinting  in  miniatures,  is  slightly  deepened,  cor- 
roborating the  authority  of  Mr.  Custis,  who 
asserted  his  complexion  to  have  been  "  both 
fair  and  florid."  The  Washington  portraits  have 
one  noticeable  characteristic :  the  nationality  — 
the  atmosphere,  so  to  speak — of  the  artist  has 
ever  left  unmistakable  trace  in  varying  sub- 
tlety. The  Ceracchi  bust  is  like  that  of  a  Ro- 
man conqueror ;  the  De  Brienne  portrait  bears 
the  air  of  the  Louis ;  the  medallion  of  sil- 
ver, set  in  crystal,  presented  to  Mrs.  Peter 
by  Mme.  Greuhm,  widow  of  the  Prussian 
minister,  although  a  copy,  acquires  an  un- 
mistakably Teutonic  cast ;  while  this  new  min- 
iature by  Robertson,  which  Mrs.  Peter  pro- 
nounced good  except  for  a  certain  sternness  of 
expression,  bears  the  impress  of  its  Scotch  de- 
lineator. The  loss  of  General  Washington's 
teeth  gave  a  different  appearance  to  the  mouth, 
and  the  under  lip  is  far  less  prominent  than  in 
the  Stuart  portrait.  The  President  had  dis- 
carded the  set  of  sea-horse  ivory  teeth,  which 
produced  this  disfigurement  in  Stuart's  picture. 
Indeed,  Prince  de  Broglie,  recording  the  per- 
sonal appearance  of  Washington,  says,  "  The 
face  is  much  more  agreeable  than  represented 
in  his  portrait."  Again,  a  contemporary  writer 
in  the  London  "New  Monthly  Magazine" 
says,  "  It  was  observed  to  me  that  there  was 
an  expression  in  Washington's  face  that  no 
painter  had  succeeded  in  taking";  remarking 
later,  "His  mouth  was  like  no  other  that  I  ever 
saw;  the  lips  firm,  the  under  jaw  seeming  to 
grasp  the  upper  with  force,  as  if  the  muscles 
were  in  full  action  when  he  sat  still." 

Taken,  therefore,  together  with  the  facts  that 
he  was  both  a  loath  and  a  bad  sitter,  one  can 
more  readily  account  for  the  sternness  of  ex- 
pression in  Robertson's  miniature,  as  well  as  in 
other  portraits.  Yet  withal  the  work  bears  an 
expression  of  calm  benignity  and  command, 
and  reflects  great  moral  character,  perfect  re- 
pose and  self-containment — qualities  notably 
attributable  to  Washington.  The  miniature 
shows  him  in  the  Continental  uniform  of  blue 
and  buff,  with  powdered  hair,  and  with  the  fine 
white  ruffles  which  Washington  always  wore  in 
preference  to  lace.  The  reverse  is  of  enamel 
of  a  deep  blue,  holding  a  pearl-encircled  reli- 
quary containing  locks  of  the  hair  of  Nelly 
Custis  and  of  G.  W.  P.  Custis,  the  whole  being 
finished  with  a  band  of  gold,  which  originally 
was  clasped  with  a  conforming  circlet  of  pearls, 
since  reset  in  other  form. 

The  two  miniatures  of  Mrs.  Washington 
in  Mrs.  Kennon's  collection  were  painted  at 
widely  varying  periods  in  her  eventful  life,  and 
together  with  the  Stuart  portrait — which  in 


point  of  time  forms,  as  it  were,  a  connecting  link 
—  afford  a  most  interesting  study  in  transition 
in  a  notably  interesting  physiognomy.  One,  by 
an  unknown  artist, —  and  many  artists  of  excel- 
lence in  both  miniature  and  oil  portraiture 
found  their  way  to  the  colonies, —  depicts  her 
at  about  the  time  of  her  marriage  to  Colonel 
Washington.  The  coloring  indicates  the  light- 
ened mourning  of  her  first  widowhood :  the 
gown  is  of  lavender,  of  that  peculiar  tinge 
accentuating  to  a  pure  complexion,  with  a 
draping  of  rich  lace,  large  in  pattern,  after  the 
fashion  of  flamboyant  brocades  then  in  vogue ; 
clasping  this  lace  at  the  breast  is  a  butterfly 
with  outstretched  wings ;  while  a  veil  of  lav- 
ender net,  caught  with  a  single  strand  of  pearls, 
falls  from  the  slightly  powdered  hair.  The 
fleckings  of  a  darker  color  on  the  veil  are  of  a 
peculiar  shade  of  green,  repeated  upon  the 
creamy  wings  of  the  butterfly. 

On  the  reverse  of  this  miniature  is  depicted 
the  face  of  Mrs.  Washington's  son,  John  Parke 
Custis,  whose  untimely  death  at  the  age  of 
twenty-seven,  of  camp  fever  contracted  while 
he  was  serving  as  aide-de-camp  to  General 
Washington  at  the  siege  of  Yorktown,  proved 
as  deep  an  affliction  to  the  noble  commander 
as  to  the  devoted  mother.  In  strong  contrast 
to  the  obverse  is  the  treatment  in  this  minia- 
ture, delicacy  yielding  to  depth  —  a  handling 
well  admissible,  because  of  the  olive,  health- 
tinged  complexion,  deep  blue  eyes,  and  dark, 
unpowdered  hair  of  the  subject.  The  coat  is 
of  myrtle  green  velvet,  with  red  collar  and  gold 
buttons,  the  same  glittering  material  outlining 
the  arabesqued  embroidery  upon  the  high 
white  satin  vest,  while  full  creped  frills  of  sheer 
white  muslin  add  lightness  and  accentuation 
of  effect.  The  excellent  business  qualities  de- 
veloped by  John  Parke  Custis,  and  doubtless 
inherited  from  his  mother,  who  ably  directed 
the  management  of  the  large  estates  on  the 
Pamunkey,  were  held  in  high  esteem  by  Gen- 
eral Washington.  He  confided  much  to  his 
stepson's  discretion,  but  took  pains  to  send 
him  advice  from  time  to  time  with  characteris- 
tic clearness.  Among  numerous  letters  between 
them  appears  the  following,  dated  Philadel- 
phia, June  19,  1775,  which  has  direct  relation 
to  the  foregoing  letter,  written  to  Mrs.  Washing- 
ton just  four  days  later,  announcing  his  imme- 
diate departure  to  Boston. 

My  great  concern  upon  this  occasion  is  the  thought 
of  leaving  your  mother  under  the  uneasiness  which 
I  fear  this  affair  will  throw  her  into  ;  I  therefore 
hope,  expect,  and  indeed  have  no  doubt  of  your 
using  every  means  in  your  power  to  keep  up  her 
spirits,  by  doing  everything  in  your  power  to  pro- 
mote her  quiet. 

I  have,  I  must  confess,  very  uneasy  feelings  on 
her  account,  but  as  it  has  been  a  kind  of  unavoid- 


i6 


SOME   NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


able  necessity  which  has  led  me  into  this  appoint- 
ment, I  shall  more  readily  hope  that  success  will 
attend  it  and  crown  our  meetings  with  happiness. 
At  any  time,  I  hope  it  unnecessary  for  me  to  say 
that  I  am  always  pleased  with  your's  and  Nelly's 
abidance  at  Mt.  Vernon,  much  less  upon  this  occa- 
sion, when  I  think  it  absolutely  necessary  for  the 
peace  and  satisfaction  of  your  mother — a  consider- 
ation which  I  have  no  doubt  will  have  due  weight 
with  you  both  and  require  no  arguments  to  enforce. 

We  now  turn  to  the  miniature  of  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington here  engraved,  painted  at  the  request  of 
Mrs.  Peter  of  Tudor  Place,  and  for  which  she 
sat  to  R.  Field  at  Mount  Vernon  in  i8oi,  just 
one  year  after  the  death  of  General  Washington 
and  one  year  before  her  own.  We  find  her  at 
the  time  of  the  painting  of  this  miniature,  in 
the  sixty-ninth  year  of  her  age,  still  directing 
all  domestic  affairs,  presiding  at  her  table  as 
formerly,  and  receiving  the  many  distinguished 
people  who  came  to  do  homage  at  the  tomb  of 
Washington  and  pay  honor  to  his  widow.1 

Notwithstanding  her  numerous  duties  and 
her  advanced  age,  Mrs.  Washington  found  op- 
portunity to  undertake  a  great  deal  of  handi- 
work, of  which,  among  other  specimens  extant, 
are  twelve  embroidered  chair-cushions,  four 
of  which  she  gave  to  each  of  her  three  grand- 
daughters, Mrs.  Law,  Mrs.  Peter,  and  Mrs. 
Lewis.  Mrs.  Lewis  gave  one  of  these  to  La- 
fayette during  his  last  visit  to  this  country,  and 
it  was  placed  in  the  American  Room  at  La 
Grange.  These  cushions  are  executed  upon 
coarse  canvas  in  a  design  of  shells,  done  in 
brown  and  yellow  wools,  the  high  lights  being 
flecked  in  gold-colored  silk.  The  netting  of 
fringe  also  continued  to  be  a  favorite  handi- 
work and  was  applied  to  the  trimming  of  coun- 
terpanes, one  of  which  is  at  Tudor  Place. 
Ample  and  charming  illustration  of  the  beau- 
tiful home  life  at  Mount  Vernon,  and  of  its 
domestic  requirements,  is  given  by  the  append- 
ed letter,  of  which  only  extracts  have  pre- 
viously been  made  public.  It  was  written  by 
the  wife  of  Colonel  Edward  Carrington  to 
her  sister,  Mrs.  Fisher,  at  Richmond,  to  whose 
son,  George  D.  Fisher,  Esq.,  the  writer  is  in- 
debted for  the  privilege  of  printing  it. 

Mount  Vernon,  November  22,  1799. 
When  near  you,  my  dear  Nancy,  I  have  often  a 

1  By  the  kindness  of  Colonel  J.  Stoddard  Johnston 
we  are  permitted  to  quote  the  following  paragraph  re- 
ferring to  this  portrait,  from  the  diary  of  John  Pintard, 
who  visited  Mount  Vernon  on  the  31st  of  July,  1801  : 
"  The  left-hand  room  as  you  enter  contains  a  portrait 
of  Colonel  Washington,  drawn  by  Peale  in  1775,  m 
his  provincial  uniform — blue,  red  facings,  and  silver 
lace ;  a  small  cocked  hat  disfigures  the  countenance, 
which  bears  striking  traits  of  the  Washington  features ; 
Mrs.  Washington  is  an  accompaniment,  fy  length ; 
a  family  piece  of  the  Lafayette  family  —  the  lady 
mutilated  on  the  left  side  of  the  face,  the  marquis  a 
striking  resemblance — a  present  from  him;   Savage's 


great  passion  to  express  my  feelings  in  an  episto- 
lary way  :  how  can  it  be  wondered  at,  then,  that 
now,  when  more  than  a  hundred  miles  from  you,  this 
propensity  should  still  exist,  particularly  when 
seated  at  a  spot  of  all  others  best  calculated  to  pro- 
duce a  letter  most  acceptable  to  you  ?  We  arrived 
here  on  the  20th,  just  in  time  for  dinner,  after  a 
pleasant  journey,  made  more  than  ordinarily  agree- 
able by  a  continuation  of  fair  weather,  which  enabled 
us  to  make  several  pleasant  calls  on  my  friends  who 
are  agreeably  scattered  on  the  way  from  Fredericks- 
burg to  Alexandria  (that  is  to  say,  if  you  take  the 
road  up  the  Potomac).  Yes,  we  arrived  at  this  ven- 
erable mansion  in  perfect  safety,  where  we  are  ex- 
periencing every  mark  of  hospitality  and  kindness 
that  the  good  old  General's  continued  friendship  to 
Colonel  Carrington  could  lead  us  to  expect.  His  re- 
ception of  my  husband  was  that  of  a  brother.  He 
took  us  each  by  the  hand,  and,  with  a  warmth  of 
expression  not  to  be  described,  pressed  mine,  and 
told  me  that  1  had  conferred  a  favor  never  to  be  for- 
gotten in  bringing  his  old  friend  to  see  him  ;  then, 
bidding  a  servant  to  call  the  ladies,  entertained  us 
most  facetiously  till  they  appeared. 

Mrs.  W ,  venerable  and  kind  and  resembling 

very  much  our  Aunt  A ;  Mrs.  Stewart,  her  daugh- 


ter-in-law, once  Mrs 
daughters,  Misses  S 
Mrs 


Custis,  with  her  two  young 
-,  all  pleasant  and  agreeable  ; 

H.  Lewis,  formerly  Miss  P d,  of  Richmond  ; 

and  last,  though  not  least,  Mrs.  L.  Lewis.  But  how 
describe  her?  Once  I  had  heard  my  neighbor,  Mrs. 
Tucker,  give  a  romantic  account  of  her  when  Miss 
Custis, — how  her  lovely  figure,  made  doubly  interest- 
ing by  a  light  fanciful  summer  dress,  with  a  garland 
of  flowers  she  had  entwined  and  an  apron  full  she 
had  selected,  came  in  to  throw  at  her  grandmother's 
feet, —  all  which  I  considered  as  a  fanciful  effusion  of 
my  friend's  romantic  turn  of  mind ;  but  now  when  I 
see  her  the  matron, — for  such  her  situation  makes 
her  appear, — lovely  as  nature  could  form  her,  im- 
proved in  every  female  accomplishment,  and,  what 
is  still  more  interesting,  amiable  and  obliging  in 
every  department  that  makes  woman  lovely  and 
charming,  particularly  in  her  conduct  to  her  aged 
grandmother  and  the  General,  whom  she  always 
calls  Grandpa,  1  seem  actually  transported  on  be- 
holding her  !  Having  once  seen  her  as  she  passed 
through  our  town  seemed  to  give  me  a  claim  to  her 
kindness,  and  her  attentions  are  unremitting. 

November  27. —  After  visiting  most  charmingly 
for  a  week  my  numerous  friends  in  and  about  the 
city,  we  returned  to  this  revered  mansion.  I  am 
well  pleased  that  my  letter  was  not  ready  for  the 
post,  as  I  have  much  to  say  and  am  really  delighted 
that  our  first  visit  was  shortened,  so  that  our  pres- 

profileof  the  President  and  Mrs.  Washington;  young 
Custis  and  Lafayette.  There  are  several  prints,  medal- 
lions, and  miniatures  of  the  President  in  the  house, 
none  of  which  please  Mrs.  W.  She  does  not  think 
Stuart's  celebrated  painting  a  true  resemblance. 
A  miniature  drawn  last  winter  or  spring  by  a  Mr. 
Robert  Field,  now  in  Washington,  of  Mrs.  W.  is  a 
striking  likeness.  She  is  drawn  to  please  her  grand- 
children in  her  usual  long-eared  cap  and  neckerchief, 
that  they  may  see  her,  as  she  expressed  it,  in  her  every- 
day face.  Mr.  Field  executes  capital  large  miniatures 
of  the  President  at  $50  each  without  the  framing." 


SOME   NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


i7 


MINIATURE    OF     WASHINGTON     IN     CONTINENTAL     UNIFORM 
ON     IVORY. 

ence  is  of  more  consequence  to  this  amiable  family 
than  it  would  have  been  before. 

It  is  really  an  enjoyment  to  be  here  to  witness 
the  tranquil  happiness  that  reigns  throughout  the 
house,  except  when  now  and  then  a  little  bustle  is 
occasioned  by  the  young  Squire  Custis  when  he  re- 
turns from  hunting,  bringing  in  a  "valiant  deer," 
as  he  terms  it,  that  Grandpa  and  the  Colonel  will  de- 
vour :  nice  venison  I  assure  you  it  is,  and  my  taste 
in  seasoning  the  stew  is  not  passed  unnoticed,  while 
the  whole  party,  I  won't  say  devour  it,  but  do  it 
ample  justice.  My  mornings  are  spent  charmingly, 
alternately  in  the  different  chambers  ;  first,  an  hour 
after  breakfast  in  the  room  of  the  invalid,  dressing 
the  pretty  little  stranger,  who  is  the  delight  of  the 
grandmama.  Then  we  repair  to  the  old  lady's  room , 
which  is  precisely  on  the  same  style  of  our  good  old 
aunt's,  that  is  to  say,  nicely  fixed  for  all  sorts  of 
work.  On  one  side  sits  the  chambermaid  with  her 
knitting;  on  the  other  side  a  little  colored  pet  learn- 
ing to  sew  ;  an  old,  decent  woman  with  her  table 
and  shears  cutting  out  the  negroes'  winter  clothes  ; 
while  the  old  lady  directs  them  all,  incessantly  knit- 
ting herself,  and  pointing  out  to  me  several  pair  of 
nice  colored  stockings  and  gloves  she  had  just  fin- 
ished, and  presenting  me  with  a  pair  half  done,  begs 
me  to  finish  and  wear  them  for  her  sake.  Her  net- 
ting, too,  is  a  great  source  of  amusement,  and  is  so 
neatly  done  that  all  the  younger  part  of  the  family 
are  fond  of  trimming  their  dresses  with  it,  and  I 
have  furnished  me  with  a  whole  suit  so  that  I  shall 
appear  a  la  domestique  at  the  first  party  we  have 
when  we  get  home.  It  is  wonderful,  after  a  life 
spent  as  these  good  people  have  necessarily  spent 
theirs,  to  see  them  in  retirement  assume  domestic 
manners  that  prevail  in  our  country,  when  but  a 
year  since  they  were  forced  to  foregoall  these  inno- 
cent delights  which  are  so  congenial  to  their  years 
Vol.  XL.— 3. 


and  tastes,  to  sacrifice  to  the  parade  of  the  drawing- 
room  and  the  levee.      The  recollection  of  ''these 

lost  days,"  as  Mrs.  W calls  them,  seems  to  fill 

her  with  regret,  but  the  extensive  knowledge  she 
has  gained  in  this  general  intercourse  with  persons 
from  all  parts  of  the  world  has  made  her  a  most 
interesting  companion,  and  having  a  vastly  reten- 
tive memory,  she  presents  an  entire  history  of  half 
a  century.  The  weather  is  too  wintry  to  enjoy  out- 
door scenes,  but  as  far  as  I  can  judge  in  a  view  from 
the  windows,  the  little  painting  we  have  seen  that 
hangs  up  in  my  friend  Mrs.  Wood's  drawing-room 
furnishes  a  good  specimen.  Everything  within 
doors  is  neat  and  elegant,  but  nothing  remarkable, 
except  the  paintings  of  different  artists  which  have 
been  sent  as  specimens  of  their  talents.  I  think  there 
are  five  portraits  of  the  General,  some  done  in  Europe 
and  some  done  in  America,  that  do  honor  to  the 
painters.  There  are  other  specimens  of  the  fine  arts 
from  various  parts  of  the  world,  that  are  admirably 
executed  and  furnish  pleasant  conversation.  Be- 
sides these,  there  is  a  complete  greenhouse,  which 
at  this  season  is  a  vast,  a  great  source  of  pleasure. 
Plants  from  every  part  of  the  world  seem  to  flourish 
in  this  neatly  finished  apartment,  and  from  the  ar- 
rangement of  the  whole  I  conclude  that  it  is  man- 
aged by  a  skillful  hand,  but  whose  I  cannot  tell : 
neither  the  General  nor  Mrs.  W — —  seem  more  inter- 
ested in  itthan  their  visitors.  We  have  met  with  no 
company  here,  but  am  told  that  scarcely  a  week 
passes  without  some,  and  often  more  than  is  agree- 
able or  convenient.  Transient  persons,  who  call 
from  curiosity,  are  treated  with  civility,  but  never 
interfere  with  the  order  of  the  house,  or  with  the 
General's  disposition  of  time,  which  is  as  regular  as 
when  at  the  head  of  the  army  or  in  the  President's 
chair.  Even  friends  who  make  a  point  of  visiting 
him  are  left  much  to  themselves  ;  indeed,  scarcely  see 


MINIATURE    OF     MARTHA     WASHINGTON,     PAINTED   IN    1801, 
SIGNED     "  R.     F." 


i8 


SOME  NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


MIRROR    FROM    MT.   VERNON,    FRAMED    IN    MAHOGANY    AND    GILT. 

him  from  breakfast  to  dinner,  unless  he  engages 
them  in  a  ride,  which  is  very  agreeable  to  him. 
But  from  dinner  to  tea  our  time  is  most  charmingly 
spent ;  indeed,  one  evening  the  General  was  so  fas- 
cinating, and  drew  my  husband  out  into  so  many 
old  stories  relating  to  several  campaigns  where  they 
had  been  much  together,  and  had  so  many  inquiries 
to  make  respecting  their  mutual  friends,  particularly 
Kosciusko  and  Pulaski,  who  have  always  corre- 
sponded with  Colonel  C ,  whose  characters  afford 

great  interest,  that  it  was  long  past  twelve  when 
we  separated.  At  breakfast  I  feel  quite  at  home, 
everything  is  so  plain. 

The  remainder  of  this  interesting  letter  is 
unfortunately  missing.  But  the  pen  picture 
given  is  elaborately  minute  in  order  to  supply 
the  most  exacting  detail  of  those  peaceful  days. 

Relics  of  the  handsome  gowns  worn  by  Mrs. 
Washington  upon  state  occasions,  and  nowcare- 
fully  preserved  at  Tudor  Place,  show  her  taste  to 
have  been  striking  and  effective,  but  governed 
by  a  sense  of  artistic  propriety  which  yielded 
to  harmoniousness  of  general  effect,  though 


partaking,  as  was  the  vogue,  of  the  vividness 
of  coloring  emanating  from  the  court  of  Ver- 
sailles. Especially  observable  is  this  in  her 
wedding  gown,  a  costume  of  yellow  brocade, 
flamboyant  in  pattern,  rich  in  texture,  the  loop- 
ings  of  the  skirt  outlined  by  falls  of  fine  white 
lace  of  a  now  obsolete  pattern,  while  the  pet- 
ticoat was  of  white  silk  interwoven  with  silver. 
The  shoes  worn  with  this  splendid  drapery 
were  of  purple  satin  trimmed  with  silver. 
Among  the  relics  of  gowns  worn  by  Mrs. 
Washington  during  the  first  presidency,  and 
which  still  retain  a  notable  freshness  of  color- 
ing notwithstanding  the  lapse  of  years,  is  one 
with  a  ground  of  golden  brown,  just  escaping 
tan,  traced  in  a  rich  brocading  of  deep  scarlet 
roses,  pale  blue  forget-me-nots,  and  tulips 
shading  through  rose-madders  to  a  reddish 
purple.  A  portion  of  this  superb  gown  was 
used  to  cover  a  low  arm-chair  of  walnut, 
studded  with  brass  nails,  which  Mrs.  Washing- 
ton sent  to  Mrs.  Peter  upon  the  birth  of  her 
first  child,  and  her  own  first  great-grandchild, 
M.  E.  Eleanor  Peter.  General  Washington 
noted  his  personal  appreciation  of  the  event 
by  presenting  to  the  little  great-grandchild 
herself  a  coral  with  golden  bells. 

The  remnant  of  another  gown  is  brocade 
of  a  rich  and  scintillant,  though  not  vivid, 
green.  A  portion  of  this  same  gown  was  used 
to  cover  a  quaintly  shaped  mahogany  fire- 
screen formerly  in  service  at  Mount  Vernon, 
and  still  doing  duty  in  a  like  capacity  at  Tudor 
Place,  although  the  silk  thus  used  is  so  faded 
that  it  bears  no  resemblance  to  the  original 
stuff  except  in  the  figures  of  the  brocading. 
That  simplicity  also  held  place  in  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington's taste  is  shown  by  a  bit  of  India  mus- 
lin delicately  sprayed  with  embroidery  and 
now  yellow  with  age.  This  material  is  so  fine 
in  texture  that  the  whole  robe  might  easily 
have  been  compressed  within  the  grasp  of  two 
small  hands. 

Three  dainty  fans,  once  used  by  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington, grace  the  cabinet  at  Tudor  Place. 
The  mounts  of  these  are  all  of  French  de- 


CAMP-STOOL    AND     PEWTER     DISH     USED     BY    WASHINGTON 
DURING     THE     WAR. 


SOME   NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


J9 


sign,  while  the  carved  ivory  sticks  are  of  Chi- 
nese workmanship.  One  portrays  in  delicate 
water-colors  a  "  Watteau- Olympian"  scene  of 
goddesses  and  mortals;  the  reverse  is  a  maiden 
beneath  a  fruit  tree.  Another  holds  a  design 
in  tulips  and  old-fashioned  garden  glories, 
which  lend  themselves  so  well  to  decoration 
in  natural  colors.  The  third  and  last,  done 
in  the  style  of  a  frieze,  bears  a  portrayal  of  the 


of  affectionate  remembrance  to  General  and 
Mrs.  Washington  by  the  French  officers  of  the 
Revolution.  The  "  Cincinnati "  and  the  "  M. 
W."  china  both  came  from  this  source  ;  and  a 
beautiful  set  was  presented  to  General  Wash- 
ington by  the  unfortunate  Count  de  Custine, 
which  was  made  upon  his  estates  in  France. 
The  graceful  ornamentation  upon  this  last- 
mentioned  service  is  done  in  gold  arabesques 


CUP    AND    SAUCER    OF    THE     "  M.    W."  CHINA. —  CONCH-SHELL    BUTTONS     FROM     WASHINGTON'S    COAT. —  CORAL    AND 
BELLS     GIVEN     BY    WASHINGTON     TO     HIS     GREAT-GRANDCHILD. 


arts  and  handicrafts ;  the  reverse  is  an  arabesque 
in  gold.  The  ground  in  each  is  of  parchment. 
The  table  service  in  Mrs.  Kennon's  pos- 
session is  not  less  interesting.  In  a  letter  to  Dr. 
Cochran,  inviting  Mrs.  Cochran  and  Mrs.  Liv- 
ingston to  dine  with  him  at  headquarters  at 
West  Point,  and  dated  August  16,  1779,  Gen- 
eral Washington  says  in  frank  amusement: 

When  the  cook  has  a  mind  to  cut  a  figure,  which 
I  presume  will  be  the  case  to-morrow,  we  have  two 
beefsteak  pies,  or  dishes  of  crabs,  in  addition,  one 
on  each  side  of  the  center  dish,  dividing  the  space 
and  reducing  the  distance  between  dish  and  dish  to 
about  six  feet,  which  without  them  would  be  nearly 
twelve  feet  apart. 

A  pewter  platter  held  at  Tudor  Place  as  a 
part  of  the  General's  camp  equipage  measures 
thirty  inches  across. 

Indeed  the  bonhomie  inspired  by  Mount 
Vernon  hospitality  may  have  led,  in  part,  to 
the  frequent  selection  of  sets  of  china  as  a  form 


and  garlands  of  delicate  pink  roses  and  fine 
blue  flowers ;  the  monogram  "  G.  W.,"  also  in 
gold,  is  upon  a  background  of  yellow  clouds, 
and  is  surmounted  by  a  wreath  —  an  allegory, 
after  the  florid  fashion  of  the  day,  to  represent 
Washington,  crowned  with  roses,  rising  through 
the  clouds. 

Very  similar  to  the  set  sent  to  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington by  the  French  officers  is  the  "  M.  W." 
china  presented  to  her  by  the  General's  early 
friend  Mr.  Van  Braam,  but  the  latter  service 
is,  if  possible,  the  more  tasteful  and  elaborate 
of  the  two.  Within  each  of  the  fifteen  ellip- 
tical double  links  enchaining  these  pieces  is 
painted  the  name  of  one  of  the  first  fifteen 
States,  each  link  being  outlined  in  delicate 
color,  while  upon  a  ground  of  gold,  defined  by 
a  green  laurel  wreath  and  thence  diverging  to 
a  sunburst,  is  the  entwined  monogram  "  M. 
W." ;  beneath  is  traced,  in  colored  letters, 
"  Decus  et  Tutam  enabillo."    The  cups  in  this 


20 


SOME  NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


set,  in  contradistinction  to  the  other  "  M.W." 
china,  have  double  handles  and  lids;  these 
lids  are  surmounted  by  gilded  ornaments,  from 
which  radiate  diverging  rays. 

The  state  dinner  and  tea  services  in  white 
and  gold,  used  by  General  Washington  during 
the  presidency  in  New  York  and  Philadelphia, 
and  later  at  Mount  Vernon,  show  plainly  his 
simplicity  of  taste  —  a  quality  recorded  at 
length  in  numerous'  letters  directing  the  se- 
lection of  furniture  and   table   appointments, 


may  be  plated  ware,  or  anything  else  more  fash- 
ionable, but  not  more  expensive.  If  I  am  defective, 
recur  to  what  you  have  seen  on  Mr.  Morris's  table 
for  my  ideas  generally. 

And  later,  under  date  of  March  i,  1790 : 

Since  my  last  to  you,  dated  the  13th  of  October, 
I  have  removed  to  a  larger  house  (the  one  lately  oc- 
cupied by  the  Count  de  Moustier),  enlarged  my  table 
and,  of  course,  my  guests  ;  let  me,  therefore,  request 
the  favor  of  you  to  add  two  pieces  to  the  number  of 
plateaux  required  in  the  above  letter,  and  ornaments 


TWO    OF     MRS.     WASHINGTON  S     FANS. 


and  especially  made  evident  during  the  first 
presidency,  when  increased  social  obligations, 
as  part  of  the  official  duties  assumed,  rendered 
necessary  an  establishment  in  accord. 

It  was  early  in  the  autumn  of  1789  that 
General  Washington  relegated  to  Gouverneur 
Morris,  then  in  Paris,  the  final  choice  of  a 
suitable  plateau  to  be  used  upon  the  occasion 
of  state  dinners,  within  these  accurate  bounds : 

Will  you  then,  my  good  sir,  permit  me  to  ask  the 
favor  of  you  to  provide  and  send  to  me,  by  the  first 
ship  bound  to  this  place  or  Philadelphia,  mirrors  for 
a  table,  with  neat  and  fashionable,  but  not  expen- 
sive, ornaments  for  them,  such  as  will  do  credit  to 
your  taste  ?  The  mirrors  will,  of  course,  be  in  pieces, 
that  they  may  be  adapted  to  the  company  (the 
size  of  it,  I  mean).  The  aggregate  length  of  them 
may  be  ten  feet ;  the  breadth  two  feet ;  the  panels 


equivalent,  for  it  will  take  these  in  addition  to  what 
I  before  asked  to  decorate  the  present  table. 

The  writer  further  requests  that  "  fourteen 
of  what  I  believe  are  called  'patent  lamps,' 
together  with  accompanying  glasses,  also  be 
sent,  the  same  not  to  cost  more  than  three 
guineas  apiece";  recording,  with  evident  sense 
of  gratification,  "  These  lamps,  it  is  said,  con- 
sume their  own  smoke,  do  no  injury  to  the 
furniture,  give  more  light,  and  are  cheaper 
than  candles." 

The  required  lamps,  which,  together  with 
the  other  articles,  duly  arrived,  were  of  brass, 
neat  in  design,  and  decorated  with  an  Ionic 
border.  A  number  of  these  lamps  are  treasured 
at  Tudor  Place,  where  in  years  past  they  were 
intermingled  with  groups  of  potted  plants  and 


SOME   NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


21 


ANDIRONS     FROM     MOUNT     VERNON. 


used  as  a  decoration  upon  the  occasion  of 
balls.  Here  also  are  preserved  the  ornaments 
selected  by  Mr.  Morris  and  accompanying  the 
plateau,  and  which  consist  of  three  large  groups 
done  in  a  white  composition  capable  of  very 
high  polish,together  with  numerous  lesser 
single  figures  of  Parian  marble.  The 
plateau  itself  is  described  as  consisting 
of  "  six  large  silver-plated  waiters,  those 
at  the  ends  being  a  half-oval  to  conform 
in  arrangement  with  the  end  of  the  table; 
the  waiters  between  the  end  were  in  the 
form  of  parallelograms,  the  ends  about 
one-third  part  of  the  length  of  the  sides. 
On  the  outside  of  the  oval  formed  by 
these  waiters  were  placed  the  various 
dishes,  always  without  covers,  and  out- 
side the  dishes  were  the  plates."  General 
Washington  deeming  this  plateau  as  not 
in  consonance  with  the  simpler  style  of 
his  retirement,  he  disposed  of  it,  retaining, 
however,  the  ornaments,  which  were 
used  at  Mount  Vernon  upon  a  plateau 
consisting  of  an  oblong  mirror  set  in  a 
frame  of  carved  rosewood,  which  ex- 
tended some  two  inches  above  the  sur- 
face of  the  glass.  The  plateau  and  its 
accompanying  figures,  together  with 
the  numerous  articles  of  Washington 
plate,  crystal,  and  china  at  Tudor  Place, 
allow  of  an  almost  exact  reproduction 
of  the  table  at  Mount  Vernon. 

The  Washington  silver  owned  by  Mrs. 
Kennon  is,  in  most  instances,  engraved 
with  the  family  crest,  is  of  English 
workmanship,  and  numbers  among  the 


articles  worthy  of  especial  mention 
a  pair  of  candlesticks  of  chaste  design, 
which  are  accompanied  by  tall,  oddly 
shaped  glass  shades,  formerly  used  to 
keep  the  light  from  flaring,  or  from  be- 
ing blown  out  by  draughts.  With  these 
may  also  be  included  the  caddy-spoon 
and  cream-jug  used  by  Mrs.  Washing- 
ton, a  pair  of  salt-cellars,  and  various 
waiters,  oval  in  shape  and  resting 
upon  claw  feet,  for  holding  dishes  of 
preserves.  The  articles  of  crystal  con- 
sist of  wine-glasses  of  a  now  obsolete 
pattern,  tumblers,  decanters,  goblets, 
and  water-glasses.  In  the  fireplace  of 
the  east  drawing-room  at  Tudor  Place 
rest  the  brass  andirons  which  were  in 
General  Washington's  room  at  Mount 
Vernon  at  the  time  of  his  death,  while 
in  another  apartment  hangs  a  mirror, 
one  of  two  dissimilar  in  design,  also 
formerly  in  use  at  Mount  Vernon,  and 
framed  in  mahogany  and  gilt. 

In  connection  with  the  conch-shell 
buttons  shown  in  an  accompanying 
illustration,  the  story  is  told  of  General  Wash- 
ington that  one  day,  while  walking  alone  in  the 
streets  of  Philadelphia,  he  was  accosted  by  a 
poor  Italian,  who,  ignorant  of  the  personality 
addressed,  continued  to  follow  and  importune 


CREAM-JUG, 


SALT-CELLAR, 
USED    AT 


CANDLESTICK,    AND 
MOUNT    VERNON. 


CADDY-SPOON 


22 


SOME  NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


GLASS     USED     BY     WASHINGTON. 


him  to  buy  some  of  the  conch  shells  which  he 
carried  in  a  basket  on  his  arm,  and  which  he 
persisted  were  the  only  things  that  he  had  in 
the  world  to  dispose  of.  "  But,  my  good  man," 
remonstrated  General  Washington,  "  what 
would  I  do  with  your  conch  shells?  I  have 
no  use  for  them."  "  Oh,  yes,  you  have,"  came 
the  ready  rejoinder.   "  You  might  have  them 


made  into  buttons  for  your  coat."  Smiling  at 
his  prompt  reply,  Washington  not  only  pur- 
chased the  shells,  but,  the  better  to  further  the 
advice,  took  them  at  once  to  his  tailor,  and,  di- 
recting them  to  be  riveted,  ordered  a  brown 
velvet  coat,  that  their  especial  usefulness  might 
be  straightway  demonstrated. 


William  Armstrong. 


II.— FROM  THE  COLLECTION  OF 
EDMUND  LAW  ROGERS,  ESQ. 


AT  the  request  of  the  editor  of 
The  Century  I  have  selected 
from  a  large  collection  of  sou- 
venirs of  Mount  Vernon  left 
me  by  my  mother,  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington's granddaughter,  a 
few  portraits  to  be  here  re- 
produced. I  regret  that  time 
does  not  admit  of  the  engrav- 
ing of  the  portrait  of  Wash- 
ington painted  by  Trumbull 
as  a  present,  and,  as  the  artist 
says  in  his  letter,  "  painted  con 
amore  in  my  best  days  as  an 
offering  of  grateful  respect  to 
Mrs.  Washington."  It  is  spe- 
cially mentioned  by  Wash- 
ington in  his  diary  as  intend- 
ed for  Mrs.  Washington,  and  is  the  only  por- 
trait of  the  General  which  she  mentions  in 
her  will.     She  bequeathed   it   to   her   eldest 


Washington's 

drawing 
instruments. 


granddaughter,  Mrs.  Law.  It  was  her  favor- 
ite portrait,  and  was  considered  by  her  grand- 
son, the  late  G.  W.  P.  Custis,  of  Arlington, 
the  best.  It  was  much  admired  by  the  ven- 
erable president  of  the  National  Academy 
when  exhibited  in  the  Loan  Exhibition  in  New 
York  last  April,  who  said  that  Trumbull  was 
most  successful  in  portraits  of  that  size —  20  by 
30  inches,  full  length.  It  is  the  original  from 
which  the  artist  made  his  life-size  portrait  for 
the  city  of  New  York.  Want  of  space  prevents 
an  engraving  of  it  on  this  occasion. 

An  interesting  miniature  of  Washington — 
shown  on  page  17 —  was  inherited  by  Mrs.  B. 
W.  Kennon,  of  Georgetown,  D.  C,  from  her 
mother,  Mrs.  Martha  Parke  Peter,  nee  Custis, 
the  second  of  the  three  granddaughters  of  Mrs. 
Washington.  Mrs.  Peter  was  married  at  the 
age  of  seventeen,  at  Hope  Park,  in  Fairfax 
County,  Virginia,  6th  January,  1795.  Several 
months  before  her  marriage  Mrs.   Peter  had 


SOME  NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


23 


asked  the  General  for  his  portrait.  He  sent 
her  his  miniature  accompanied  by  a  letter, 
which  has,  unfortunately,  been  lost.  It  is  not 
known  positively  by  whom  the  miniature 
owned  by  Mrs.  Kennon  was  painted. 

Finding  that  the  request  of  her  younger 
sister  had  been  so  graciously  granted,  Eliza 
Parke  Custis,  the  eldest  granddaughter,  four 
months  before  her  sister's  marriage  and  nine- 
teen before  her  own  marriage  to  Mr.  Thomas 
Law,  wrote  the  following  letter  to  her  grand- 
mother's noble  husband  : 

Hope  Park  September  7th,  1794. 
Dear  &  Honrd  Sir.  My    Sister's    success   in    her 
application  to  you  for  your  Picture,  gives  me  cour- 
age to  make  the  same  request,  and  as  /  have  no 
other  wish  nearer  my  heart  than  that  of  possessing 


Germantown  Sept.  14  1794. 

My  dear  Betsey.  Shall  I,  in  answer  to  your  letter 
of  the  7th  instant  say  —  when  you  are  as  near  the 
pinnacle  of  happiness  as  your  sister  Patsy  conceives 
herself  to  be;  or  when  your  candour  shines  more 
conspicuously  than  it  does  in  that  letter,  that  I  will 
then  comply  with  the  request  you  have  made  for 
my  Picture  ? 

No  —  1  will  grant  it  without  either :  —  for  if  the 
latter  were  to  be  a  preliminary,  it  would  be  some 
time,  I  apprehend,  before  that  Picture  would  be 
found  pendant  at  your  breast;  it  not  being  within 
the  bounds  of  probability  that  the  contemplation  of 
an  inanimate  thing,  whatever  might  be  the  reflec- 
tions arising  from  the  possession  of  it,  can  be  the 
only  wish  of  your  heart. 

Respect  may  place  it  among  the  desirable  objects 
of  it,  but  there  are  emotions  of  a  softer  kind  to 
which  the  heart  of  a  girl  turned  of  eighteen  is  sus- 


MINIATURE    OF    MARTHA    WASHINGTON     ON     IVORY.       (FROM     ORIGINAL    IN     THE     POSSESSION    OF     EDMUND     LAW    ROGERS.) 


your  likeness  ;  I  hope  you  will  believe  me  sincere 
when  I  assure  you,  it  is  my  first  wish  to  have  it  in 
my  power  to  contemplate,  at  all  times,  the  features 
of  one,  who,  I  so  highly  respect  as  the  Father  of  his 
Country  and  look  up  to  with  grateful  affection  as  a 
parent  to  myself  and  family. 

We  are,  Dear    Sir,  at  present,  in  distress,  which 
must  be  my  apology  for  this  short  letter.    Mamma 
and  Patty  join  me  in  affection  to  you  with  ardent 
wishes  for  your  health  and  happiness,  I  am 
Honrd   Sir  your  grateful 

Grand  Daughter  Eliza  P.  Custis. 

To  this  letter  General  Washington  replied 
in  the  following  remarkable  and  most  admi- 
rable letter,  in  which  he  treats  of  the  subjects 
of  love  and  matrimony  : 


ceptible,  that  must  have  generated  much  warmer 
ideas,  although  the  fruition  of  them  may  apparently 
be  more  distant  than  those  of  your  sister. 

Having  (by  way  of  a  hint)  delivered  a  sentiment 
to  Patty  which  may  be  useful  (if  it  be  remembered 
after  the  change  that  it  is  contemplated  is  consum- 
mated) I  will  suggest  another  more  applicable  to 
yourself. 

Do  not  then  in  your  contemplation  of  the  mar- 
riage state  look  for  perfect  felicity,  before  you  con- 
sent to  wed;  nor  conceive,  from  the  fine  tales  of 
the  Poets,  and  lovers  of  old  of  the  transports  of 
mutual  love,  that  heaven  has  taken  its  abode  on 
earth  ;  — nor  do  not  deceive  yourself  in  supposing 
that  the  only  means  by  which  these  are  to  be  ob- 
tained, is  to  drink  deep  of  the  cup,  and  revel  in  an 
ocean  of  love. 


24 


SOME   NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


ELIZA     PARKE     CUSTIS.        (FROM     MISS     PEALE's     I 

Love  is  a  mighty  pretty  thing,  but  like  all  other 
delicious  things,  it  is  cloying  ;  and  when  the  first 
transport  of  the  passion  begins  to  subside,  which  it 
assuredly  will  do,  and  yield  —  oftentimes  too  late 
— to  more  sober  reflections,  it  serves  to  evince,  that 
love  is  too  dainty  a  food  to  live  upon  alone,  and 
ought  not  to  be  considered  further  than  as  a  neces- 
sary ingredient  for  that  matrimonial  happiness  which 
results  from  a  combination  of  causes  ;  none  of  which 
are  of  greater  importance  than  that  the  object  on 
whom  it  is  placed  should  possess  good  sense, — 
good  dispositions, —  and  the  means  of  supporting 
you  in  the  way  you  have  been  brought  up,  and  who, 
at  the  same  time,  has  a  claim  to  the  respect  of  the 
circle  in  which  he  moves. 

Such  qualifications  cannot  fail  to  attract  (after 
marriage)  your  esteem  and  regard  —  into  which  or 
into  disgust,  sooner  or  later,  love  naturally  resolves 
itself. — Without  these,  whatever  may  be  your  first 
impressions  of  the  man  they  will  end  in  disappoint- 


OPY     OF     THE     PAINTING     BY     GILBERT     STUART.) 

ment,  for,  be  assured,  and  experience  will  convince 
you  of  it,  that  there  is  no  truth  more  certain  that 
all  our  enjoyments  fall  short  of  our  expectations  and 
to  none  does  the  observation  apply  with  more  force 
than  the  gratification  of  the  passions. 

You  may  believe  me  to  be  always 
and  sincerely  — 

Your  affectionate 
Miss  Betsy  Custis.  Geo.  Washington. 

As  a  pendant  to  the  above  letter  it  may  not 
be  inappropriate  to  add  the  following  joint 
note  of  General  and  Mrs.  Washington  to  the 
husband  of  the  lady  to  whom  that  letter  was 
addressed,  Mr.  Thomas  Law,  whom  she 
married  not  many  months  after  the  letter  was 
written.    The  note  is  as  follows  : 

Philadelphia  28th  March  1796. 
Dear  Sir  —  By  letters  recd  from  Hope  Park  dated 


SOME  NEW   WASHINGTON  RELICS. 


25 


the   22^  inst,  we  are  informed  that  your  marriage 
with  Miss  Custis  was  celebrated  the  day  before. 

On  this  pleasing  occasion  we  offer  you  and  Eliza 
our  sincere  and  affectionate  congratulations  ;  and 
vows  for  the  perfect  happiness  of  you  both,  in  the 
union  you  have  formed. 

Whether  here,  or  at  Mount  Vernon  we  shall  always 
be  happy  to  see  you,  and  at  either  place,  when  you 
are  there  we  pray  you  to  consider  yourselves  at  home. 
With  great  and  sincere  regard  we  remain 
Your  affectionate 

Geo.  Washington  — 
Martha  Washington. 

The  miniature  of  General  Washington  re- 
ferred to  in  his  letter  to  Eliza  Parke  Custis,  and 
given  to  her  by  him,  is  now  the  property  of 
the  writer,  her  only  grandson.1  It  is  painted  on 
ivory  in  an  oval,  the  longest  diameter  being 
two  and  seven-eighths  inches,  and  the  short- 
est two  and  three-quarters  inches.  The  face' 
is  nearly  three-quarters,  and  turned  to  the 
right ;  the  eyes  are  blue  ;  the  hair  is  powdered 
and  very  carefully  brushed ;  and  a  portion  of 
the  black  silk  queue  is  visible  over  the  right 
shoulder.  The  figure  is  not  quite  half-length. 
The  uniform  is  the  Continental  buff  and  blue ; 
the  cravat  is  of  fine  white  cambric  ;  the  shirt  is 
ruffled;  the  coat  is  fastened  with  only  one 
button ;  there  is  a  vest  of  yellow  cloth;  and  the 
buff  collar  of  the  coat  is  very  broad.  The 
miniature  is  set  in  gold ;  the  back  consists  of 
a  gold  rim,  within  which  is  a  broad  band  of 
blue  enamel,  encircling  an  oval  of  brilliants 
which  incloses  the  hair  of  General  Washington. 
There  is  a  ring  attached  to  the  upper  end  of 
the  gold  setting  for  passing  through  it  a  chain 
or  a  ribbon  to  hang  the  miniature  around  the 
neck.  The  red  morocco  case,  lined  with  white 
satin,  in  which  the  portrait  is  kept,  was  given 
at  the  same  time  with  the  miniature. 

In  my  possession  also  are  miniatures  of 
Mrs.  Washington  and  of  her  only  son,  John 
Parke  Custis,  the  father  of  the  Miss  Custis  to 
whom  General  Washington  wrote  the  letter 
and  gave  his  miniature.  These  two  miniatures 
of  mother  and  son  are  in  one  locket,  obverse 


COLLAR  AND  CUFF  BUTTONS. 


and  reverse.  They  are  exquisitely  painted,  but 
it  is  not  known  by  whom.  They  are  set  in 
oval  filigree-work  frames  of  gold,  and  measure 

1  This  miniature  is  evidently  by  the  same  hand  as 
that  shown  on  page  17,  and  is  so  similar  that  it  has 
not  been  engraved  for  this  article. —  Editor. 

Vol.  XL.— 4. 


one  and  seven-eighths  inch  for  the  longest  and 
one  and  one-half  inch  for  shortest  diameter. 
Mrs.  Washington's  portrait  is  not  quite  quarter- 
length.  She  wears  a  dark-colored  dress,  and 
over  it  a  very  fine  transparent  white  lace  neck- 
erchief; her  hair  is  rolled  back,  apparently 
on  a  cushion,  and  powdered ;  her  eyes  are 
brown ;  she  wears  no  jewels  ;  her  cap  is  of 
lace,  white,  and  in  three    rows  of  very  close 


£2_ 


MINIATURE   OF  JOHN    PARKE   CUSTIS   ON   IVORY.    (FROM    ORIGINAL 
IN    THE    POSSESSION    OF   EDMUND   LAW    ROGERS. 

plaits.  The  miniature  of  her  son  represents  a 
young  man  of  about  twenty  with  a  beautiful 
head  of  hair  falling  in  heavy  dark  curls  on 
each  side  and  parted  on  the  left.  His  coat 
has  a  collar  with  a  broad  roll,  and  is  of  green 
cloth  —  only  the  top  button  is  visible ;  his  vest 
is  of  white  cloth  or  silk,  has  white  pearl  or 
covered  buttons,  and  is  embroidered  with  a 
small  red  vine  running  down  the  front  edge ; 
he  wears  a  white  cravat;  and  the  ruffles  of  his 
shirt  are  of  the  finest  transparent  lace. 

The  little  pocket- case  of  instruments  en- 
graved for  this  magazine  is  of  red  morocco, 
and  fastens  with  a  tuck,  the  tongue  of  which  is 
shown  thrown  open  in  the  engraving.  The  pic- 
ture shows  the  little  ivory  scale  in  the  center; 
on  one  side  the  small  pair  of  dividers,  half 
brass  and  half  steel ;  and  on  the  other  side  the 
little  pencil  ■ —  all  just  as  Washington  left  them, 
and  as  he  used  them  before  the  Revolution 
when  surveying  in  what  is  now  West  Virginia. 
The  two  pairs  of  cuff-buttons  are  beautifully 
enameled  upon  gold,  and  are  of  oval  shape, 
the  outer  band  being  of  white  enamel  with 
twelve  minute  gold  stars ;  this  band  incloses 
another  of  dark  blue  enamel,  which  surrounds 
a  center  of  white  enamel  on  which  is  a  lozenge- 
shaped  decoration  of  gold.  These  were  worn 
on  the  cuffs  of  the  General's  shirt,  while  the 
third  pair,  of  plain  gold,  were  used  at  the  collar. 

Edmund  Law  Rogers. 


ORIGINAL    PORTRAITS    OF    WASHINGTON. 


IN  The  Century  for 
April,    1889,    a   first 


THE     PORTRAIT    OF 
WASHINGTON     BY    RAMAGE. 


paper  on  this   sub- 
ject appeared.    At 
that    time  I    had 
no    intention    of 
following  it  with 
a  second ;    but 
the  widespread 
interest  that  was 
aroused    by     the 
article,  and  the  dis- 
coveries it  elicited, 
are   the  occasion  of 
the    present    contribu- 
tion. 

The  loan  exhibition 
of  historical  portraits  and  relics  in  connection 
with  the  centennial  celebration  of  the  in- 
auguration of  George  Washington  as  first 
President  of  the  United  States  was  opened 
at  the  Metropolitan  Opera  House  in  New 
York  City  on  April  17,  and  to  it  nearly  fifty 
portraits  of  Washington  were  contributed. 
Perhaps  the  most  interesting  one  there  —  for 
the  reason  that  before  that  time  its  existence 
was  unknown — was  the  original  miniature 
painted  by  John  Ramage,  which  the  publica- 
tion of  the  article  discovered  in  the  pos- 
session of  Mrs.  M.  S.  Beach,  of  Peekskill, 
N.  Y.  It  was  found  in  1884,  in  Montreal, 
Canada,  by  its  present  owner,  belonging  to  the 
daughter  of  the  man  in  whose  house  Ramage 
died,  and  to  whom  the  artist  had  presented  it 
shortly  before  his  death  in  recognition  of  the 
kindly  care  he  had  received  during  his  last 
illness.  The  exact  date  of  Ramage's  death 
cannot  be  ascertained,  but  the  person  from 
whom  Mrs.  Beach  purchased  it  had  had  it  in  her 
personal  ownership  for  more  than  sixty  years. 
As  the  accompanying  engraving  shows,  Wash- 
ington is  represented  full  face,  with  powdered 
hair,  and  in  uniform.  The  miniature  is  beauti- 
fully painted,  and  is  set  as  a  breastpin.  The 
face  bears  many  of  the  well-known  character- 
istics of  Washington's  features,  while  at  the 
same  time  it  is  quite  unlike  any  other  known 
portrait.  All  we  know  of  the  artist  personally 
we  get  from  the  garrulous,  gossiping,  unrelia- 
ble Dunlap,1  and  it  is  as  follows : 

This  was  an  Irish  gentleman,  who  painted  min- 
iatures in  Boston,  and  married  there.  He  left  it 
with  the  British  troops,  and  was  as  early  as   1777 

1  "  History  of  the  Rise  and  Progress  of  the  Arts  of 
Design  in  the  United  States,"  New  York,  1834. 


established  in  William  street,  New  York,  and  con- 
tinued to  paint  all  the  military  heroes  or  beaux  of 
the  garrison,  and  all  the  belles  of  the  place.  He  did. 
not  accompany  the  army  when  it  left  our  shores, 
but  continued  the  best  artist  in  his  branch  for  many 
years  after.  Mr.  Ramage  occasionally  painted  in 
crayons  or  pastel,  the  size  of  life.  His  miniatures 
were  in  the  line  style,  as  opposed  to  the  dotted.  I 
admired  them  much  in  the  days  of  youth,  and  my 
opinion  of  their  merit  is  confirmed  by  seeing  some 
of  them  recently.  Mr.  Ramage  was  a  handsome  man 
of  the  middle  size,  with  an  intelligent  countenance 
and  lively  eye.  He  dressed  fashionably,  and,  accord- 
ing to  the  time,  beauishly.  A  scarlet  coat  with 
mother-of-pearl  buttons,  a  white  silk  waistcoat 
embroidered  with  colored  flowers,  black  satin 
breeches  and  paste  knee-buckles,  white  silk  stock- 
ings, large  silver  buckles  in  his  shoes,  a  small 
cocked-hat,  covering  the  upper  portion  of  his  well- 
powdered  locks,  leaving  the  curls  at  the  ears  dis- 
played, a  gold-headed  cane,  and  gold  snuff-box 
completed  his  costume.  When  the  writer  returned 
from  Europe,  in  1787,  Mr.  Ramage  introduced  to 
him  a  second  wife,  but  he  was  changed,  and  evi- 
dently declining  through  fast  living. 

Another  very  interesting  portrait  of  Wash- 
ington, contributed  by  Mr.  George  L.  McKean, 
of  Chicago,  to  the  same  exhibition,  was  the  pro- 
file by  Joseph  Wright,  from  which  is  engraved 
the  frontispiece  of  this  number.     Where  and 
when  this  portrait  was  painted  is  not  known., 
but  it  is  unmistakably  the  work  of  this  artist. 
Wright  drew  and  etched  a  profile  portrait  of 
Washington  in  1790,  and,  it  is  stated,  painted 
him  the  same  year.    This  may  be  that  portrait 
The  head  is  the  same  in  the  etching  and  the 
painting,  but  in  the  former  the  body  as  well 
as  the  head  is  in  profile,  while  in  the  latter  the 
body  is  three-quarters  to  the  right,  with  the  head 
only    turned   in    profile.    The    simple,   placid 
dignity   of  this  portrait   is   its  highest   com- 
mendation, while  at  the  same  time  it  has  a 
charm  of  reality  about  it  which  is  deeply  im- 
pressive.   This    picture    was    purchased    by 
Thomas  Shields,  the  maternal  grandfather  of 
its  present  owner,  at  an  auction  sale  of  the 
effects    of  a  picture   restorer   in  Alexandria, 
Virginia,  about   the   year  181 5.    Mr.  Shields 
kept  a  public  house  in  Alexandria,  and  was  a 
member  of  the  same  Masons'  lodge  as  Wash- 
ington, and  was  perfectly  familiar  with  the  face 
of  the  original.   He  always  esteemed  it  a  most 
excellent  likeness,  and  his  opinion  in  later  years 
was  emphatically  indorsed  by  G.  W.  Parke 
Custis.    When   this    painting   was    shown   to 
him,  shortly  before  his  death,  he  is  reported  to 
have  said:  "Yes,  this  is  the  General.    It  is  a 


A    TWILIGHT  SONG. 


27 


most  true  and  faithful  likeness.  It  gives  a 
more  correct  and  perfect  expression  of  his 
countenance  than  any  other  I  have  ever  seen, 
and  I  believe  I  have  seen  all  of  the  portraits 
for  which  the  General  sat, —  Stuart's,  Peale's, 
and  others, —  but  none  of  them  are  as  correct. 
They  make  his  forehead  too  straight  and  mass- 
ive, while  the  General's  receded  in  a  line  with 
his  nose,  as  may  be  seen  in  Houdon's  statue 
at  the  Capitol  in  Richmond.  You  see  the  same 
in  this  portrait.  Houdon  took  a  cast  from  off 
the  General's  face,  from  which  was  modeled 
the  statue."  Clark  Mills,  the  sculptor,  claimed 
that  its  measurements  agreed  with  those  of  the 
Houdon  cast. 

The  several  portraits  of  Washington  by 
Wright  are  among  the  most  important  and  in- 
teresting that  have  been  transmitted  to  the 
present  generation. 

To  the  same  loan  collection  Mrs.  Joseph 
Harrison,  of  Philadelphia,  sent  the  original 
bust  portrait,  three-quarters  to  the  right, 
painted  by  Charles  Wilson  Peale  in  1787, 
which  Washington  mentions  in  his  diary  as 
being  wanted  by  the  artist  "  to  make  a  print 
or  mezzotinto  by."  A  year  ago  we  could  not 
locate  it. 

This  exhibition  proved  also  our  error  in 
classing  the  full-length  by  Trumbull,  in  the 
City  Hall,  New  York,  as  an  original  portrait ; 
the  original  from  which  the  City  Hall  portrait 
was  painted  being  a  cabinet  picture,  twenty 
inches  by  thirty  inches,  painted  by  Trumbull 


in  July,  1790,  and  presented  by  him  to  Mrs. 
Washington.  It  now  belongs  to  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington's great-great-grandson,  Edmund  Law 
Rogers,  of  Baltimore.  The  head  is  exquisitely 
painted.  Mr.  Rogers  owns  the  miniature  by 
Walter  Robertson,  which  was  also  at  the  loan 
exhibition. 

An  extract  from  The  Century's  article 
quoted  in  the  "  Stockholm  Dagblad  "  brought 
a  communication  to  the  Swedish  newspaper, 
claiming  that  the  original  portrait  of  Washing- 
ton by  Wertmiiller,  signed  by  the  artist,  is  in 
the  possession  of  Mr.  W.  J.  Dannstrom,  36 
Sturegatan,  Stockholm;  and  a  recent  exami- 
nation of  the  Peter  Force  collection,  in  the 
Library  of  Congress,  has  revealed  the  manu- 
script note-books  of  Pierre  Eugene  du  Simitiere, 
from  which  we  transcribe  this  entry : 

Paintings  and  Drawings  done  1779. —  Feby.  1st,  a 
drawing  in  black  lead  of  a  likeness  in  profile  of  his 
Excellency  General  Washington,  form  of  a  medal 
for  my  collection. 

N.  B. — The  General,  at  the  request  of  the  Hon. 
Mr.  Jay,  President  of  Congress,  came  with  him  to 
my  house  this  morning  and  condescended  with 
great  good  nature  to  sit  about  three-fourths  of  an 
hour  for  the  above  likeness,  having  but  little  time 
to  spare,  being  the  last  day  of  his  stay  in  town. 

Thus  the  date  is  fixed  which  heretofore  was 
only  approximated. 

It  is  hoped  that  these  additional  notes  may 
be  the  means  of  bringing  additional  informa- 
tion. 

Charles  Henry  Hart. 


A    TWILIGHT    SONG 

For  unknown  buried  soldiers ;  North  and  South. 

AS  I  sit  in  twilight,  late,  alone,  by  the  flickering  oak-flame, 
■   Musing  on  long-past  war  scenes  —  of  the  countless  buried  unknown  soldiers, 
Of  the  vacant  names,  as  unindented  air's  and  sea's  —  the  unreturn'd, 
The  brief  truce  after  battle,  with  grim  burial-squads,  and  the  deep-filled  trenches 
Of  gather'd  dead  from  all  America,  North,  South,  East,  West,  whence  they  came  up, 
From  wooded  Maine,  New  England's  farms,  from  fertile  Pennsylvania,  Illinois,  Ohio, 
From  the  measureless  West,  Virginia,  the  South,  the  Carolinas,  Texas  ; 
(Even  here  in  my  room-shadows  and  half-lights,  in  the  noiseless,  flickering  flames, 
Again  I  see  the  stalwart  ranks  on-filing,  rising  —  I  hear  the  rhythmic  tramp  of  the  armies) ; 
You  million  unwrit  names,  all,  all — you  dark  bequest  from  all  the  war, 
A  special  verse  for  you  —  a  flash  of  duty  long  neglected  —  your  mystic  roll  strangely  gath- 
er'd here, 
Each  name  recall'd  by  me  from  out  the  darkness  and  death's  ashes, 
Henceforth  to  be,  deep,  deep,  within  my  heart,  recording,  for  many  a  future  year, 
Your  mystic  roll  entire  of  unknown  names,  or  North  or  South, 
Embalm'd  with  love  in  this  twilight  song. 

Walt  Whitman. 


MARIE    BASHKIRTSEFF.        (AFTER    A    PHOTOGRAPH.) 


TWO    VIEWS    OF    MARIE    BASHKIRTSEFF. 


ARIE  BASHKIRT- 
SEFF has  shot  like 
a  flame  across  the 
sky.  Six  months 
ago  her  name 
had  scarcely  been 
spoken;  to-day  it 
is  well-nigh  a  household  word,  and  around  it 
hot  discussion  has  waged,  and  the  most  violent 
extremes  of  opinion  have  been  called  forth, 
ranging  from  a  sort  of  cult  to  the  most  indignant 
protest  and  denunciation.  Difficult  indeed  is  it 
to  fix  the  gaze  calmly  and  steadily  upon  so  me- 
teor-like an  apparition — to  scan  its  orbit  and 
take  into  account  the  eccentricities  and  aberra- 
tions of  its  course.  Each  of  us  must  be  content 
to  see  in  Marie  Bashkirtseff  what  we  are  capa- 
ble of  seeing.  She  has  a  personality  that  fairly 
exasperates  some  susceptibilities,  and  it  is 
probably  her  own  sex  who  will  be  most  lenient 
to  her ;  for  the  generality  of  men  do  not  easily 
pardon  an  egotism  which  encroaches  upon 
their  own,  an  ambition  which  measures  itself 
with  theirs,  and  an  absence  of  reserve  which 
seems  the  very  abdication  of  womanhood.  To 
state  the  case  against  her  :  we  must  look  upon 
her  almost  as  a  monstrosity  —  an  abnormal  and 
irrational  being,  entirely  unworthy  of  our  at- 
tention, sympathy,  or  respect ;  devoid  of  the 


natural  affections  and  of  every  instinct  of  mod- 
eration and  restraint;  actually  feeding  upon 
self,  and  in  turn  devoured  by  self.  On  the 
other  hand  we  may  range  ourselves  with  Mr. 
Gladstone,  who  bids  us  be  careful  how  we  deal 
with  these  same  "  abnormal  beings,  who  seem 
to  warn  us  common  mortals,"  he  says, "  how 
we  handle  them  roughly  or  lightly,  because 
they  are  above  and  beyond  us;  our  arms  do 
not  encompass  them."  From  this  point  of  view 
we  may  perhaps  find  in  Marie,  not  alone  that 
which  repels  and  is  to  be  dreaded  and  shunned, 
but  that  which  supremely  attracts,  which  ani- 
mates and  inspires  us — so  glowing  and  redun- 
dant a  vitality  that  our  own  faculties  are 
intensified,  our  perceptions  quickened,  and  our 
energies  reenforced.  Centered  in  self  as  she  was, 
there  revolves  around  Marie  a  whole  world  of 
possibility  and  suggestion  —  a  world  that  is  so 
often  blank  and  inert  to  our  dull  sense,  but  that  to 
her  was  luminous,  plastic,  and  full  of  revelation; 
visions  of  beauty  beckon  and  invite  her,  lovely 
sounds  woo  her,  and  on  all  sides  she  is  called 
out  to  the  infinite.  Like  an  T^Eolian  harp  her 
resonant  nature  vibrated  at  every  touch.  Art, 
music,  books,  nature,  the  whole  gamut  of  the 
emotions  swept  over  the  strings  that  rang  and 
finally  snapped  with  the  effort  to  express  the 
ardent,  concentrated,  insatiable  individuality 
that  burned  within  her. 

Call  this  selfishness  if  you  will.    Fortunately 


28 


TWO    VIEWS   OF  MARIE  BASHKIRTSEFF. 


29 


for  mankind,  there  are  many  unselfish  women 
in  the  world  —  so  many,  that  we  understand 
how  Marie  comes  to  be  looked  upon  as  an 
anomaly,  a  lusus  natures  even.  There  are  good 
daughters,  good  wives,  and  good  mothers,  to 
whom  all  honor  and  reverence,  for  the  world 
could  not  exist  without  them.  But  in  justifica- 
tion of  Marie  let  us  apply  a  broader  test  to 
these  as  well,  and  ask  to  how  many  of  the 
most  exemplary  women  does  a  larger  unself- 
ishness appeal  ?  How  many  of  them  are 
capable  of  abstract  and  disinterested  ideas  — 
of  motives  and  aims  in  no  wise  connected  with 
their  personal  affections  and  the  narrow  circle 
of  their  routine  and  domestic  experience  ? 
Marie  is  not  a  model  in  the  household  (Heaven 
forbid  that  we  should  suggest  it !  ),but  even  here 
she  may  supply  an  element  that  is  lacking, 
and  that,  under  more  favorable  circumstances 
and  conditions,  could  be  put  to  noble  service 
and  win  worthy  report.  For,  if  not  in  justifi- 
cation, in  charity,  at  least,  let  us  remember 
what  was  her  training,  what  the  influences 
that  surrounded  her,  and  the  moral  and  relig- 
ious ideals  into  which  she  was  born.  Had  she 
lived  longer,  who  has  the  right  to  say  that  she 
might  not  have  redeemed  her  faults,  and  have 
risen  out  of  self  into  higher  spiritual  growth  ? 
Such  as  she  was,  the  tragic  figure  of  Marie  Bash- 
kirtseff  has  flitted  across  the  scene  and  passed 
into  silence  and  rest.  Twenty-four  years  had  not 
gone  over  her  head,  and  her  face  looks  out 
upon  us,  in  its  immortal  freshness  and  youth, 
with  surprised  and  unanswered  eyes.  Whom 
the  gods  love,  die  young.  Did  the  gods  then 
love  Marie  ?  Many  gifts  were  showered  upon 
her,  but  much  was  denied  her.  Of  sorrow  she 
had  her  full  measure,  and  of  happiness  only 
the  dream  unfulfilled,  the  divine  expectation. 
May  peace  be  with  her  now.  Ave  atque  Vale, 
Maria  / 


if. 


LA    RUE. 


W  TV* 


I  The  end 
I   of      the 
%  last  cen- 
1   tury  and 
!   the    be- 
1   ginning 
of     this 
produc- 
ed a  vast 
number 
ofletter- 


wntmg 


tobiog- 

raphical  ladies.  It  was  the  fashion  for  the 
young  lady  to  look  upon  herself  as  an  "  object 
of  interest,"  and  carefully  to  describe  her 
emotions  and  actions  when  brought  in  contact 


with  Genius  or  Royalty  or  Superior  Intelli- 
gence. That  literature  was  often  charming, 
and  though  not  especially  accurate  or  natural, 
it  sometimes  gave  us  side  lights  upon  Great 
People  which  help  us  to  understand  their 
almost  miraculous  power. 

The  so-called  naturalistic  method  changes 
all  this.  A  young  and  gifted  girl,  full  of  ar- 
dor and  enthusiasm,  takes  up  her  journal  to 
relate  at  length  her  own  sensations ;  analyzing 
her  impulses,  dissecting  her  emotions,  and 
leaving  us  in  the  end  ignorant  of  the  most  im- 
portant factor  in  a  woman's  life  —  the  impres- 
sion which  she  made  on  others.  What  use  to  us 
are  the  details  of  her  dress,  or  the  color  of  her 
hair  or  eyes,  if  by  dint  of  iteration  of  trivialities 
we  are  made  to  forget  the  impression  of  the 
whole  ?  The  fatal  element  of  disintegration  in 
the  photographic  method  is  the  habit  of  ac- 
centing everything  equally :  the  effect  is  mo- 
notonous, and  the  result  is  that  the  mind, 
having  no  point  of  especial  interest  to  dwell 
upon,  loses  tone,  and  gradually  grows  to  dislike 
the  subject  under  consideration.  We  may  be 
scientific,  and,  according  to  the  theory  of  some 
writers,  we  are  bound  to  feel  as  little  for  a  girl 
who  breaks  her  heart  as  for  one  whose  new 
gloves  have  torn  in  pulling  them  on.  But  we 
all  know  that  we  do  not  and  cannot  feel  so ; 
and  though  we  may  read  for  the  sake  of  the 
writer,  we  also  protest  for  the  sake  of  the 
writer  —  who  does  not  dare  give  his  theory  full 
sway.  Marie  has  attempted  a  photograph  of 
her  daily  life,  going  into  the  least  agreeable 
details;  yet,  for  that  very  reason,  she  wearies  the 
reader  and  gives  us  little  of  her  best  self.  The 
things  which  to  her  seem  of  no  moment  are 
to  us  soul-searching,  as  when  she  tells,  without 
a  word  of  compunction,  of  her  unsealing  a  letter 
from  one  doctor  to  another  —  a  piece  of  dis- 
honesty which  even  the  law  punishes  severely, 
but  which  she  does  not  appear  to  think  wrong. 
Her  attitude  towards  marriage  would  interest 
an  American  from  its  business-like  tone  in  con- 
trast to  her  visionary  hopes  and  plans  for  her 
accomplishments  and  fame.  Fame  is  her  con- 
stant desire  and  cry  from  childhood.  She  thinks 
of  it  as  a  thing  to  be  done,  not  as  the  result  of 
something  better  done  for  itself  or  for  humanity. 

In  reading  this  journal  one  cannot  help  ask- 
ing one's  self  if  the  self-analysis  which  it  attempts 
is  a  possible  thing,  or  a  useful  experiment. 
Goethe  called  his  confessions  "  Poesy  and 
Truth  " ;  and  Marie  Bashkirtseff,  though  she 
has  no  sense  of  poetry  and  strives  after  truth, 
gives  us  really  a  less  vivid  and  less  sympa- 
thetic view  of  herself  than  if  she  had  fused  her 
journal  into  an  artistic  form  —  as  perhaps 
George  Eliot  did  in  her  painting  of  Maggie 
Tulliver. 

"  It  is  curious,"  she  says  in  the  preface  ;  "  it 


;n   possession   of  her  mother. 


MARIE     BASHKIRTSEFF.       (FROM    A    PORTRAIT     BY     HERSELF.) 


ENGRAVED    BY    C.    STATE. 


30 


TWO    VIEWS   OF  MARIE  BASHKIR TSEFF. 


31 


is  the  life  of  a  woman,  day  by  day,  without 
veil  and  without  affectation;  it  is  very  inter- 
esting, merely  as  human  statistics :  ask  M. 
Zola,  and  even  M.  de  Goncourt  or  Maupas- 
sant." It  is  unusual  and  it  is  interesting ;  but  it 
can  hardly  be  instructive  as  "  human  statistics," 
in  the  sense  in  which  Marie  uses  the  word. 
It  interests  women  more  than  men :  men  do 
not  like  to  see  the  machinery  by  which  they 
are  to  be  captivated ;  and  with  all  her  analy- 
sis and  her  powers  of  charming,  she  seems  not 
to  have  possessed  that  mysterious  power,  "  the 
eternal  femininity  "  of  Goethe,  which  "  draws 
us  onward."  Her  admirers  do  not  seem  to 
have  been  lovers.  In  Paris  and  London  groups 
of  "  scientific  "  people,  especially  those  affili- 
ated with  the  French  naturalists  of  to-day, 
have  thought  it  useful  to  write  out  their  expe- 
riences, telling  everything,  as  they  understand 
everything, —  that  is,  everything  that  should 
not  be  told, —  to  be  read  after  death ;  or,  if  it 
makes  a  salable  book,  to  be  brought  out  with- 
out that  artistic  finale.  Does  not  this  method 
place  the  public  in  the  attitude  of  the  valet 
de  chambre,  before  whom  the  greatest  is  un- 
heroic  ?  What  gain  to  have  this  adage  veri- 
fied ?  We  are  still  ignorant  of  the  Hero,  the 
exceptional  being  who  can  what  others  would. 
His  own  essence  escapes  himself.  He  can 
never  understand  himself  dramatically  as  the 
actor  of  a  comedy  ending  alway  in  a  tragedy 
—  death. 

With  this  poor  girl  our  interest  rises  as  the 
gloom  of  the  approaching  fate  begins  to  spread 
over  the  pages.  Now  comes  the  drama;  and 
now  the  character,  before  vague  and  piece- 
meal, begins  to  develop.  We  are  never  de- 
ceived ;  we  always  know  the  fair,  young,  fool- 
ish thing  must  die,  and  her  cries  for  fame,  for 
love,  for  life,  fill  us  with  painful  sympathies; 
her  indifference  and  heartlessness  to  her  family 
make  us  groan :  we  long  to  say,  "  Child,  love 
your  mother,  do  not  criticize  her ;  caress  your 
poor  aunt,  who  thinks  only  of  you ;  do  not 
turn  from  her  to  analyze  her  and  your  own 
feelings  for  her."  Love  is  and  ought  to  be 
blind,  that  it  may  have  the  heavenly  sight  un- 
marred  by  the  accidents  of  human  imperfec- 
tion. Too  caustic  even  towards  herself,  she 
never  felt  love  in  this  sense;  she  was  always 
watching  and  longing  for  it,  but  she  never 
even  guessed  its  "  pure  realm  over  sun  and 
star." 

The  girl  who  leaves  these  two  thick  volumes 
behind  her,  together  with  a  great  quantity  of 
studies  and  a  number  of  clever  finished  pic- 
tures, as  the  result  of  a  brief,  precocious  life, 
was  Russian  to  the  core.  Immensely  gifted, — 
with  a  lovely  voice,  wealth,  beauty,  and  posi- 
tion,—  she  had  all  that  could  be  given  or 
gained  by  the  usage  of  society,  the  freedom  of 


unlimited  money,  a  devoted  and  indulgent  fam- 
ily, a  very  remarkable  power  of  application^ 
That  she  should  die  early  was  a  constant 
thought,  and  it  is  curious  to  trace  back  her 
fears  and  "  visions  of  the  night,"  dreams  and 
anxieties,  lest  she  should  die  and  leave  no  sign. 
Yet  here  comes  the  impossibility  to  a  human, 
living,  breathing  creature  to  think  itself  dead. 
"  I  shall  die  young,"  is  a  favorite  phrase  of 
young  people, —  it  makes  them  interesting, — 
and  she  says,  "It  is  a  'pose,'  an  emotion;  I 
inclose  a  mystery ;  Death  has  touched  me  with 
his  finger;  there  is  a  charm  about  it;  besides, 
it  is  something  new."  But  she  does  not  believe 
it.  She  hesitates  to  spoil  her  skin  to  cure  her 
lung! 

The  thread  of  savage  blood,  ever  to  be  noted 
in  the  Russian,  shows  often  in  the  early 
pages — rage,  and  fierce  denunciations  of  peo- 
ple and  things,  an  astonishing  familiarity  (at 
twelve  years  old)  with  the  immoralities  about 
her  in  Nice ;  and  at  sixteen,  in  Russia,  where 
nothing  is  left  unsaid,  a  lack  of  maidenliness 
(for  want  of  a  better  word)  in  her  treatment 
of  her  own  soul  and  body  —  those  liftings  of 
the  veil  which  the  sensitive  soul  does  not  make 
even  to  itself.  These  seem  to  me  to  indicate  a 
rank  soil  of  savagery  which  the  hot-house 
atmosphere  of  Nice  and  Paris  covers  with, 
brilliant  flowers. 

We  often  see  in  persons  of  high  birth,  es- 
pecially among  women,  a  total  lack  of  educa- 
tion,— in  the  sense  of  a  drawing  out  of  the 
faculties  and  a  philosophical  method  in  ac- 
quiring knowledge, — in  spite  of  an  appearance 
of  having  great  advantages.  The  only  sequence 
is,  that  all  subserves  to  vanity.  The  men  escape 
because  their  schools  and  colleges  bring  them 
perforce  in  contact  with  other  kinds  of  people, 
and  the  world  outside  forces  itself  upon  them. 
Deference  was  never  taught  this  poor  little 
princess,  or  the  knowledge  that  there  can  be 
a  higher  joy  than  to  get  a  Salon  medal,  be  an 
admired  singer,  marry  a  duke  with  a  mistress,  or 
the  nephew  of  a  cardinal  who  may  be  pope,  or 
set  a  fashion  in  a  circle  of  the  beaic  monde. 
Humanity,  contemporary  history,  does  not  exist 
for  her  or  her  circle,  and  it  is  when  she  goes 
into  the  atelier  with  other  girls  that  she  first 
discovers  with  rage  and  jealous  misery  that 
others  have  a  right  to  life,  place,  fame,  and 
joys. 

To  any  art  student,  especially  to  any  girl 
studying  art,  the  atelier  part  of  the  book  is 
interesting ;  and  in  spite  of  the  writer's  crude- 
ness,  and  her  lack  of  nobility  in  her  relations 
with  her  fellow-pupils  and  her  masters,  it  is 
much  the  most  sympathetic. 

We  feel  as  we  do  before  the  life-drawing  of 
some  of  the  French  students,  as  if  the  ugly  had , 
too  large  a  space  —  was  insisted  on  with  viru- 


TWO    VIEWS   OF  MARIE   BASHKIR TSEFF. 


lence;  that  the  lesson  of  nature  could  be  taught 
better  by  choosing  beauty  and  nobility  to  re- 
cord, than  by  a  minute  attention  to  the  hideous, 
the  disgusting,  and  the  ignoble.  We  feel  sure 
that  Marie  did  not  show  so  selfish,  so  jealous, 
and  so  unwomanly  a  side  to  her  young  com- 
panions as  she  would  have  us  believe,  but 
that,  when  alone  with  her  journal,  she  made  an 
unconscious  confession  of  the  bad  and  forgot 
the  good  of  her  nature. 

It  could  hardly  be  expected  that  her  pic- 
tures should  be  great, — the  mechanical  diffi- 
culties of  painting  and  sculpture  are  enormous, 
— but  they  are  very  fair  student  work.  She  is 
greatly  under  the  influence  of  Lepage,  and 
has  little  relish  or  understanding  of  the  subtle- 


ties of  form  and  color  in  the  great  art  of  the 
past. 

The  most  interesting  part  to  the  world  is 
her  affection  for  and  kindness  to  Bastien-Le- 
page,  who  died  a  few  weeks  after  her  death. 
When  he  was  too  ill  to  walk  he  was  often  car- 
ried to  her  house,  where  he  and  she  sat, 
stretched  out  on  two  lounges,  silent,  dull  with 
pain,  letting  their  young  lives  drift  away,  seem- 
ing to  have  no  outlook,  no  hope,  and  at  the 
last  no  apparent  desire  for  another  and  a  purer, 
more  ideal,  life. 

The  book  is  a  lesson  in  literary  art  read 
backwards,  for  it  leaves  us,  by  dint  of  explain- 
ing and  detail,  uncertain  as  to  the  real  being 
beneath  the  appearance. 

D. 


THE    FALLEN. 


(IN    MEMORIAM  :    MAY    30.) 


II. 


TOLL  the  slow  bell, 
Toll  the  low  bell, 
Toll,  toll, 
Make  dole 
For  them  that  wrought  so  well ; 
To  them  that  fought  and  fell, 
Once  more,  farewell,  farewell, 
Once  more,  farewell. 

Come,  come, 

Bid  the  dull  drum 

Hush  all  gladness  dumb, 

While  dolorous  horn  and  death-remembering 

bell 
The  steady  voice  of  sorrow  swell. 
Solemn  measures  slow 
Toll  and  beat  and  blow ; 
Rebuke  it,  darken,  blight 
This  bright,  unpitying  light ; 
Put  out  all  glories  that  adorn 
This  sweet,  unheeding  morn. 

Toll  —  toll  — 

Toll  — toll  — 
For  them,  our  beauty  and  our  might, 
Gone  on  the  unreturning  way, 
For  them  that  took  the  night 
That  we  might  have  the  day. 
Blow  the  sad  horn 
This  glad  May  morn  ; 
Knell,  knell, 
Let  the  slow  bell 
Be  struck,  and  the  troubled  drum. 

Come,  come, 

Sound  on  —  since  we  must  weep  on  —  for  their 

sleep 
Who  had  not  time  to  weep, 
And  our  high  honor  keep. 
Blow  the  sad  horns, 
Bring  flowers  for  them  that  took  the  thorns. 

The  sacred  scroll  —  let  it  once  more  be  read, 

Victors  and  vanquished,  all  the  fallen  together ; 

Here  in  the  warm  May  weather, 

Number  once  more  the  well-beloved  dead. 

Love,  love  forgets  no  brother 

Born  of  our  common  mother ; 

Here  in  the  warm  May  weather, 

Bow  we  in  grief  together, 

Kneel  we  in  grief  together  : 

To  them  that  wrought  so  well, 

To  all  that  fought  and  fell, 

Once  more,  farewell,  farewell, 

Once  more,  farewell. 

Vol.  XL. — 5-6.  33 


Death  —  Death!  Whence  cometh  he 

Who  said  that  he  should  be  ? 

Oh,  if  Death  were,  these  were  his  foremost  foes, 

Who,  though  henceforth  they  tent 

Beyond  the  firmament, 

Deliver  still  their  undiminished  blows ; 

Who,  marching  bright  and  far 

As  flames  the  farthest  star, 

Along  the  fadeless  field  of  light, 

The  ringing  field  of  life  and  right, 

Forever  gather  to  the  fight. 

No  more  let  Grief  with  his  pale  face 

Offend  the  splendor  and  the  grace, 

The  promise,  of  this  place. 

Bid  hither  cringing  Doubt, 

And  drive  his  devil  out : 

The  Lord  our  God,  once  more  He  saith, 

"  This  hand  made  all ;  it  made  not  Death." 

Sepulchered  not,  but  sown 

In  virtuous  mold,  the  hardy  seed 

For  harvest  of  th'  enduring  deed, 

Here  live  and  thrive  God's  own. 

The  brute  goes  down  into  his  darkened  gate, 

Content  with  that  unlovely  ultimate ; 

But  them  we  laid  here  side  by  side, 

Scorned  the  mean  clod,  and,  risen,  abide. 

Here  did  our  soldiers,  one  by  one, — 

The  last  grand  duty  grandly  done, — 

These  acres  of  green  martyr  sward 

Add  to  the  garden  of  our  Lord. 

Live  words,  swift  words,  and  joyous,  break 

From  these  still  mounds : 

"  Wake,  Freedom,  wake  ! 

Blow  the  glad  horn 

This  bright  May  morn, 

This  white  May  morn ; 

Strike  up  the  martial  stave ; 

Say,  where  those  colors  wave 

Believed  and  battled  they 

Whose  face  was  towards  the  day; 

Say,  there  nor  cowl  nor  crown 

Shall  strike  you,  Freedom,  down ; 

Say  on  till  Hell  itself  shall  hear, 

Men  are  that  falter  not  nor  fear ; 

Say,  for  th'  unwavering  brave 

There  is  no  grave." 

Ay,  stanch  undaunted  measures  blow, 
Still  gath'ring  courage  as  they  go ; 
High,  defiant  measures  sound, 
Send  the  echoes  round  and  round 
Honor's  utmost  bound : 


34 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


Again  and  yet  again  say  for  this  land, 
Still  her  soldier's  sword  is  in  his  hand. 
Say,  these  can  yet  the  stiff  sword  thrust 
Up  through  the  dust. 

The  sinew  and  the  rib  of  Liberty, 

Who  being  gave  to  what  was  but  a  name  — 

Lift  for  them  mightily 


The  voice  of  long  acclaim ; 

Sound  their  true  worth, 

Sound  their  new  birth, 

Over  the  earth : 

Blow  through  all  the  habitation  of  the  brave 

Their  clear,  eternal  challenge  to  the  grave. 

lohn  Va?ice  Cheney. 


[BEGUN  IN  THE  NOVEMBER  NUMBER.) 

FRIEND    OLIVIA. 

BY   AMELIA    E.    BARR, 

Author  of  "Jan  Vedder's  Wife,"  "The  Border  Shepherdess,"  "A  Daughter  of  Fife," 

"  The  Bow  of  Orange  Ribbon,"  etc. 


XII. 
anastasia's    MARRIAGE. 

"  Good  smiters  when  help  is  needed,  though  the  fee- 
ble bend  to  the  blow  ; 
Men  who  when  evil  bares  before  them  his  hind- 
most  teeth,   fly  gaily  to  meet  him,   in  com- 
panies or  alone." 

"  No  wailer  before  ill-luck,  one  mindful  in  all  he 
did 
To   think  how  his  work  to-day  would   live    in 
to-morrow's  tale." 

4'  Marriage  a  slavery  beyond  enduring 
But  that  't  was  of  her  own  procuring." 

"  Women  are  governed  by  a  stubborn  fate : 
No  merit  their  aversion  can  remove, 
No  ill  requital  can  efface  their  love." 

FTER  the  receipt  of  Olivia's  letter 
Nathaniel  was  at  Sandys  every 
day.  Lady  Kelder  showed  her 
disapproval  in  many  familiar 
ways;  but,  as  she  complained 
to  Jael,  "  he  bows  to  me  and 
then  takes  the  road.  If  it  had  been  Mary  Bell- 
ingham,  or  Alice  Singleton,  or  Ruby  Halliday, 
I  could  have  made  shift  to  endure  it." 

"  Nay,  my  Lady.  You  would  have  thought 
Mistress  Bellingham  gave  my  young  master 
but  half  a  heart,  the  other  half  being  with 
Charles  Stuart ;  and  Mistress  Singleton  is  full 
cousin,  and  not  to  be  thought  of;  and  Mis- 
tress Halliday  hath  the  dream  of  the  Fifth  Mon- 
archy Men,  and  would  be  like  enough  to  keep 
us  all  in  hot  water  with  the  Commonwealth." 
"Then,  a  God's  mercy  !  why  should  he  marry 
any  one  ?  And  here  also  is  the  baron  dallying 
his  time  away  at  Oliver's  court  —  a  fine  court 
truly  —  and  I  a  poor  lonely  lady  as  ever  bore 
the  name." 

"  The  Lord  General  delays  the  baron  from 

kind  memories.  Few  that  push  themselves  into 

high  places  are  so  humble-minded,  my  Lady." 

"  High  places !  Yes,  he  hath  a  high  place. 


And  I  wish  him  as  much  joy  in  it  as  he  has 
right  to  it.  Those  Cromwells  patron  to  Kel- 
der !  It  passes  my  understanding." 

"  To  be  sure  't  is  so,  but  in  worst  extremes 
we  may  remember  ourselves  that  blow  wind 
ever  so  fast  it  will  have  to  lower  itself  ere  long. 
To-morrow  is  untouched,  my  Lady." 

"  It  is  not  untouched,  Jael.  To-day  proph- 
esies for  to-morrow.  To-day  we  love  and  we 
plan,  and  to-morrow  we  have  the  outcome. 
Yes,  indeed ;  and  the  thing  intended  brings 
with  it  many  a  thing  not  intended.  I  have  had 
sorrows,  Jael,  in  the  past ;  and  I  know  how  past 
sorrows  breed  present  ones." 

"  My  Lady,  I  would  n't  carry  next  year,  and 
the  year  after,  on  your  heart.  Wherever  to- 
day's comforts  come  from,  to-morrow's  will 
come  also.  There  is  always  the  '  wherewith T 
for  the  want.  And  many  a  God's-penny  you 
have  for  the  days  to  come ;  so  I  would  n't  take 
on  over  miscomforts  clear  and  sheer  gone  for- 
ever. All  of  us  stand  in  hand  to  look  forward, 
and  not  backward.  'T  was  yesterday  only, 
when  young  master  sat  making  the  flies  for  his 
trout-fishing,  I  heard  him  singing  some  words 
that  set  me  thinking  so." 

"  Your  young  master  hath  the  song  ever  on 
his  tongue  now ;  that  is  because  he  is  thinking 
of — somebody." 

"  I  should  n't  wonder,  my  Lady.  I  never 
knew  any  one  sing  that  thought  about  them- 
selves. Dismal  work  that,  and  nothing  to  sing 
about.  My  young  master  hath  a  fine  voice, 
and  I  warrant  he  made  a  sweet  music  to  the 
words  as  ever  I  heard." 

"  Love  words,  doubtless,  Jael  ?  " 

"Not  they;  but  wise  words,  as  you  shall 
hear,  my  Lady : 

"  '  Weep  no  more,  nor  sigh,  nor  groan, 
Sorrow  calls  no  time  that  's  gone : 
Violets  plucked,  the  sweetest  rain 
Makes  not  fresh  nor  grow  again.' 

"  And  anon  he  tuned  up  gaily,  and  sang  of 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


35 


"'  Spring,  the  sweet  spring, 
The  year's  pleasant  king, 
And  the  lark's  silver 
Leer-a-leer  !   Leer-a-leer  !  ' 

"  T  was  a  good  sight  to  me,  and  I  stood  idling 
a  ten  minutes  watching  and  listening  to  him." 

"  Ah,  Jael,  my  son  hath  a  sweet  temper 
and  a  noble  heart." 

"  And  a  noble  presence,  my  Lady.  As  he 
sat  there,  singing  in  the  sunshine,  he  looked 
wondrous  like  you." 

"  He  hath  truly  a  look  of  me,  and  it  does 
not  hurt  him.  He  is  away  to  Sandys  again, 
Jael." 

"  I  fear,  then,  he  will  get  a  wetting  ere  he 
get  back.  Listen  to  the  quails  in  the  juicy 
corn,  crying,  '  Wet  my  feet !  '  If  they  'd  satin 
slippers  on,  they  could  n't  make  more  fuss 
about  a  drop  of  rain.  Come,  my  Lady,  be  well 
at  ease.  The  baron  will  be  here  anon ;  and  for 
the  other  matter,  as  you  cannot  manage  it, 
you  may  just  as  well  leave  it." 

She  had  been  dressing  her  lady's  hair  as 
she  talked,  and  with  these  final  words  she 
handed  her  a  little  silver-framed  mirror  to  in- 
spect her  arrangement. 

"  I  think  it  will  do,  Jael.  Bring  me  my 
second-best  house-gown ;  surely  the  baron  will 
arrive  to-night."  And  in  this  hope  she  dressed 
herself,  letting  her  jealous,  angry  thoughts  of 
Nathaniel  drift  away  on  its  happier  tide. 

It  was  on  this  afternoon  —  the  fifth  after  the 
receipt  of  Olivia's  letter — that  Nathaniel  saw 
her  waiting  for  him.  The  sky  had  become 
cloudy,  and  the  quail's  fretful  fear  was  on  the 
point  of  being  realized.  But  Nathaniel  thought 
the  slight,  white-robed  figure,  standing  with 
uncovered  head  in  the  gray  light,  fairer  for 
the  somber  atmosphere  surrounding  it. 

They  met  without  words,  for  their  eyes  had 
a  quicker  speech.  But  oh,  how  full  were  the 
hours  that  followed  !  What  confidences  !  What 
silences !  Nathaniel  learned  over  again  every 
changing  light  and  shadow  on  her  sweet  face. 
And  his  love-fraught  gaze  upon  her  was  like 
sunshine  on  flowers.  It  brought  the  rose  into 
her  cheeks,  the  light  into  her  eyes.  It  suffused 
her  smiles,  her  low  words,  her  shy  looks  with 
such  responsive  love  that  the  afternoon  went 
like  a  moment,  and  it  was  sunset,  dark  and 
rainy,  before  they  had  well  begun  their  story. 

On  that  same  afternoon  the  baron  said  his 
farewell  to  Cromwell.  He  was  then  at  White- 
hall, and  thither  Kelder  went,  with  a  melan- 
choly sense  that  it  was  the  last  earthly  inter- 
view with  his  old  comrade.  In  London  the 
day  was  fine  and  clear,  but  Cromwell  was  in 
one  of  the  darkest  of  those  dark  moods  which 
clouded  the  latter  part  of  his  life.    The  baron 


found  him  wandering  through  the  empty  rooms 
of  Whitehall,  musing  upon  the  discord  and  dis- 
union in  the  ranks  of  his  party,  and  he  said  bit- 
terly to  Kelder,"  All  is  but  vanity  —  vanity  and 
vexation  of  spirit." 

"  His  loving-kindness  faileth  not." 

"I  am  in  the  shadows,  Odinel;  soul-shadows, 
if  I  may  say  so :  they  fall  where  they  please, 
without  regard  to  the  sun.  Many  things  press 
sore  on  me.  I  live  as  it  were  in  the  fire."  And 
he  began  to  complain  sadly  of  the  religious 
chaos  of  the  time  —  the  Solemn  League  and 
Covenant  Men,  the  Fifth  Monarchy  Men,  the 
Presbyterians,  the  prelates  and  the  Indepen- 
dents, all  asking  but  one  question,  Who  shall 
get  the  living  ?  "  Truly,  Odinel,  the  burden 
is  heavy  on  me." 

"  Perhaps,  then,  Quakers  are  not  so  foolish 
as  we  deem  them.  Sure  't  is  the  part  of  peace 
and  wisdom  to  retreat  from  all  these  confusions 
to  the  Light  Within.  Perhaps,  also,  these  men 
may  weary  of  their  contentions,  and  at  even- 
tide you  may  have  the  peace  you  have  truly 
wrought  for." 

"  'T  is  not  to  be  hoped  for ;  't  is  not,  indeed. 
Many  dogs  have  never  killed  their  own  mut- 
ton, but  those  who  have  begun  to  do  so  will 
not  cease  the  bad  charge  of  themselves.  So 
't  is  with  men ;  many  have  meddled  not  with 
plots  and  politics,  but  those  who  have  but 
once  done  so,  't  will  be  extraordinary  indeed 
if  they  cease  their  troubling." 

Thus  conversing  they  left  the  palace  and 
walked  into  that  royal  avenue  of  elms  which 
then  adorned  St.  James's  Park;  and  after  a 
while  they  came  to  "  that  pretty  garden  house  " 
which  was  then  the  abode  of  Milton,  and  in 
later  days  of  Hazlitt  and  Jeremy  Bentham. 
There  were  five  persons  present,  and  among 
them  Sir  Roger  L'Estrange,  a  bitter  royalist 
but  a  great  lover  of  music.  He  was  playing  the 
viol  with  Mr.  Milton,  and  all  singing  Shirley's 
grand  lyric : 

The  garlands  wither  on  your  brow, 

Then  boast  no  more  your  mighty  deeds; 
Upon  death's  purple  altar  now, 

See  where  the  victor-victim  bleeds  : 
All  heads  must  come 
To  the  cold  tomb ; 
Only  the  actions  of  the  just 
Smell  sweet  and  blossom  in  the  dust. 

Cromwell  sat  down,  and  at  the  last  two  lines 
his  face  kindled,  and  he  sang  them  with  a 
solemn  enthusiasm.  Then  Mr.  Milton  went 
to  the  organ  and  there  was  sung  a  madrigal, 
and  a  canon  of  Lock's,  and  at  the  last  the 
"Orpheus  Hymn."  And  strange  it  was  to  see 
how  even  Sir  Roger  forgot  his  enmity  in  the 
fine  harmonious  sounds,  and  how  men  were 
at  one  in  a  musical  part  who  were  at  sixes  and 


36 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


sevens  when  it  came  to  theology  and 
politics. 

The  Protector  and  Kelder  left  before  the  im- 
promptu concert  was  ended,  and  at  the  little  gate 
on  the  Westminster  side  they  bid  each  other 
farewell.  Cromwell  had  become  gloomy  and 
silent  as  soon  as  they  lost  the  last  echo 
of  the  music.  He  said  his  farewell  like  one 
who  was  tired,  and  who  felt  the  sudden  return 
of  some  swift- gathering  sorrow  which  he  might 
forget  for  a  moment,  but  never  escape.  Yet 
in  spite  of  his  gloom  the  man's  parting  smile 
was  an  actual  phenomenon.  It  came  from  some 
sunny  depth  in  his  nature,  and  remained  for- 
ever in  the  heart  of  the  man  who  caught  it; 
a  wonderful  smile,  though  he  said  with  it : 

"  If  it  be  a  last  farewell,  Kelder,  I  say  it 
truly  without  grieving.  Whenever  He  shall  be 
pleased  to  call  me  I  am  prepared  to  dislodge. 
I  am  everywhere  free." 

And  as  the  clashing  gate  parted  them  Kel- 
der whispered :  "  I  have  seen  the  last  of  him. 
O  my  old  captain !  Shall  we  meet  again 
among  the  hosts  of  heaven  ?  Truly,  Michael  the 
chief  will  welcome  you  for  a  brave  comrade." 

He  hardly  understood  the  passion  of  grief 
and  admiration  which  melted  his  heart  within 
him.  But  he  felt  how  dear  those  are  who  have 
been  our  associates  in  any  good  or  great  work, 
and  how  specially  dear  if  that  memory  is  set 
in  those  noon-days  of  life  when  we  were  happy 
of  heart  and  strong  and  willing  in  the  day  of 
our  power. 

He  went  thoughtfully  through  the  city, 
noticing  very  little,  and  so  by  easy  stages  to 
Kelderby.  Between  Lancashire  and  West- 
moreland there  is  a  bleak  country,  so  wild  and 
desolate  that  even  at  this  day  the  manufactur- 
ing villages  perched  on  the  hilltops  affront  its 
natural  loneliness.  Few  people  in  Cromwell's 
time  crossed  it,  but  Kelder's  nearest  way  home 
lay  through  the  western  portion.  As  his  horse 
painfully  picked  his  steps  among  bogs  and  boul- 
ders, he  saw  four  men  toiling  along  before  him. 
They  were  grave  in  gait,  and,  but  for  the  want 
of  swords,  looked  like  disbanded  Ironsides. 
They  walked,  too,  like  men  having  some  ear- 
nest purpose,  and  when  Kelder  overtook  them 
he  asked  if  they  had  business  that  way. 

"We  have  a  great  business  on  God's  earth, 
yet  not  in  men's  market-places";  and  then, 
walking  by  Kelder's  side,  they  reasoned  with 
him  of  righteousness  and  of  judgment  to  come, 
and  specially  of  that  attractive  doctrine  of  the 
Inward  Light,  alluring  men  by  the  infallibility 
of  its  guidance  and  the  independence  of  its 
individuality. 

One  of  the  men  was  John  Audland,  a  young 
Independent  minister  of  great  learning,  who 
had  joined  Fox  at  his  first  appearing,  and 
Kelder  had  some  knowledge  both  of  him  and 


of  his  wife,  the  beautiful,  wealthy,  and  pious 
Anne  Newby.  He  gladly  talked  with  him 
until  they  came  to  a  lonely  farm-house  at 
which  the  evangelists  were  to  stay,  and  he 
never  forgot  John's  parting  words : 

"  Odinel  Kelder,  if  a  prophet  told  thee  to 
do  some  great  thing,  thou  wouldst  gladly  obey 
him.  Thou  wouldst  draw  up  truth  from  the 
deep,  or  bring  it  down  from  the  heavens;  but 
thou  canst  not  believe  it  is  within  thee.  Stretch- 
ing out  thy  hands  to  an  unknown  God,  thou 
heedest  not  the  God  in  whom  thou  livest,  and 
movest,  and  hast  thy  being." 

It  was  sunset  when  they  parted,  and  Kel- 
der rode  on,  full  of  thought,  until  the  gray  hills 
and  the  gray  clouds  met,  and  the  horizon  was 
like  a  still  sea.  A  lonely  hostelry  received 
him,  and  he  was  weary  enough  to  have  slept 
soundly.  But  neither  weariness  nor  the  thought 
of  home,  now  only  a  day's  journey  distant, 
could  put  aside  the  seriously  transcendent 
words  of  John  Audland.  True,  he  had  not 
Fox's  imperial  logic,  but  he  had  Paul's  faith 
in  his  heart  and  Paul's  words  on  his  tongue; 
and  Kelder,  do  as  he  would,  could  not  rid  him- 
self of  the  great' apostle's  manifesto,  "I  live; 
yet  not  I,  but  Christ  liveth  in  me." 

And  then  the  wailing  of  a  babe  in  the  next 
room  recalled  the  mystery  of  the  Incarnation, 
and  it  was  gray  dawn  when  he  went  to  sleep, 
with  that  same  wonder  in  his  heart  that  Rich- 
ard Crashaw  had  just  so  eloquently  expressed 
for  him : 

That  He  whom  the  sun  serves  should  faintly  peep 
Through  clouds  of  infant  flesh  :  that  He  the  old 
Eternal  Word  would  be  a  child,  and  weep; 
That  He  who  made  the  fire  should  feel  the  cold ; 
That  Heaven's  high  Majesty  his  court  should  keep 
In  a  clay  cottage,  by  each  blast  controlled : 

That   Glory's  self  should   serve  our  griefs  and 
fears  : 

And  free  Eternity  submit  to  years. 

In  the  evening  of  the  following  day  the  baron 
reached  Kelderby.  There  all  things  were  as 
usual,  but  he  heard  that  a  small  body  of  cav- 
alry had  taken  up  their  quarters  in  Kendal. 
They  had  offered  no  information  concerning 
their  visit,  and  Kelder,  though  suspecting  it, 
was  equally  reticent.  The  generality  knew  that 
Kendal  and  its  vicinity  was  the  home  of  many 
active  royalists.  Lord  Derwent  had  recently 
fled  to  the  king  in  France,  and  so  men  with 
bad  consciences  concerning  their  affection  to 
the  Commonwealth  walked  very  softly,  and 
kept  their  tongues  even  from  good,  while  those 
stern-looking  Artegals  walked  silent  and  watch- 
ful up  and  down  the  quiet  streets  of  their  town. 

De  Burg  heeded  them  very  little.  He  knew 
more  of  forbidden  knowledge  than  most  of  the 
citizens,  and  he  was  confident  they  were  watch- 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


37 


ing  Strickland.  For  this  young  man  had  a  cer- 
tain bravery  of  his  opinions,  and  a  contempt 
for  any  equivocal  hiding  of  them,  which  De 
Burg  had  often  foretold  would  bring  him  into 
trouble.  He  expected  every  morning  to  hear  of 
his  arrest,  and  he  was  happy  in  the  expectation. 
For  he  had  not  forgotten  Strickland's  con- 
temptuous treatment,  neither  was  he  so  much 
the  friend  of  the  king  as  to  put  the  safety  of  his 
friends  before  the  punishment  of  De  Burg's 
enemies. 

He  had  no  knowledge  of  the  baron's  visit 
to  London.  Events  happening  in  Silverdale 
took  a  long  time  to  reach  Kendal,  especially 
in  the  haying  season,  and  he  saw  Nathaniel 
frequently  about  the  town,  or  on  the  highways. 
Even  if  a  visit  to  Cromwell  had  suggested  it- 
self to  his  mind,  he  would  have  been  certain 
that  only  Nathaniel  could  take  it ;  but  such 
an  event  never  occurred  to  him  as  probable. 
He  could  break  faith  as  suited  his  desire  or 
his  convenience,  but  he  did  not  reflect  that 
his  own  breach  of  honor  canceled  the  obliga- 
tions of  others. 

Also,  he  had  plenty  of  private  business  to 
attend  to :  Anastasia  required  more  conciliation 
than  he  had  ever  before  considered  it  neces- 
sary to  give  to  any  woman,  and  Chenage,  having 
in  a  manner  arranged  his  own  happiness,  was 
not  concerned  to  redeem  his  promises  to  De 
Burg  as  promptly  as  De  Burg  expected  and 
desired.  He  had  been  compelled  to  let  the 
vessel  belonging  to  Le  Tail's  friend  sail  with- 
out him,  and  in  consequence  had  had  to  make 
two  secret  journeys  to  Whitehaven,  in  order 
to  arrange  with  another  captain. 

But  at  length  the  ^"200  was  paid,  the  ship 
waiting,  and  Anastasia  gave  that  reluctant  con- 
sent which  necessity  wrings  from  the  unwilling 
heart.  Chenage  and  De  Burg  wished  the  cere- 
mony to  be  as  private  as  possible,  but  Anasta- 
sia's  nature  demanded  the  support  which  a 
crowd  of  fellow-creatures  was  sure  to  give  her. 
She  felt  that  if  she  must  transact  this  business 
of  marriage  it  could  be  done  with  the  least 
suffering  to  herself  if  the  whole  town  was  pres- 
ent to  give  her  its  admiration  and  approval. 

And  when  she  appeared  on  her  bridal 
morning  King  Solomon  in  all  his  glory  might 
well  have  been  astonished  at  this  young  woman. 
Her  dress  of  silver  brocade  had  a  stomacher 
of  pearls.  Three  rows  of  pearls  encircled  her 
throat.  Bracelets  of  pearls  were  around  her 
arms.  A  golden  comb  set  with  pearls  held 
back  the  veil  of  her  flowing  hair.  Her  neck 
and  bosom  were  partly  covered  with  a  scarf 
of  French  lace,  and  a  little  apron  of  the  same 
material  was  full  of  white  roses.  The  moonlight 
radiance,  the  soft  shimmer  of  her  whole  toilet, 
but  intensified  the  brilliance  of  her  beauty  — 
of  eyes  that  flashed  or  languished  as  it  pleased 


her;  of  cheeks  that  glowed  like  carnations; 
of  an  air  at  once  resolved,  daring,  cajoling,  and 
fascinating. 

The  sun  shone  with  a  brilliance  that  went 
to  the  heart ;  the  bells  were  ringing  as  if  each 
separate  bell  had  a  conscious  jubilant  voice; 
the  town  had  the  air  of  a  holiday,  and  as  she 
went  through  it  hearty  hurrahs  answered  the 
bells,  and  women  and  children  threw  flowers 
into  her  coach,  with  loud-spoken  admiration 
and  good  wishes. 

All  this  tumult  of  bride-blessing  was  seri- 
ously disliked  by  Chenage.  What  had  these 
crowds  of  men  and  women  to  do  with  his  An- 
astasia? He  was  jealously  angry  that  they 
should  appropriate  any  portion  of  his  joy,  or 
assume  the  right  to  look  at  his  bride  and  ex- 
press their  interest  in  her  beauty  and  happiness. 
A  sullen  gloom  was  in  his  eyes,  even  as  he 
walked  to  the  altar ;  but  when  Anastasia  scat- 
tered her  roses  before  it,  and  then  turned  to 
him  with  a  smile,  he  forgot  everything  but  the 
loveliness  of  the  girl  whose  hand  he  took. 

De  Burg  watched  him  with  hearty  suspicion 
and  dislike.  He  had  learned  both  to  doubt  and 
to  detest  him,  and  there  had  been  hours  lately 
in  which  Anastasia,  had  she  known  it,  could 
have  changed  her  fate  by  a  tear  or  a  ca- 
ress. So  near  in  life  do  two  destinies  often 
meet.  The  quiver  of  an  eyelid  might  enable 
a  soul  to  pass  from  misery  to  happiness;  but 
ignorance  of  the  fact  makes  the  barrier  insur- 
mountable, beyond  effort,  and  beyond  hope. 
Anastasia  would  gladly  have  broken  the  chain 
of  circumstances  in  which  she  was  bound,  but 
her  evil  genius  stood  watching  her  with  sar- 
castic approval,  always  choosing  the  wrong 
moment,  always  taking  the  wrong  method,  in 
any  effort  she  made  for  this  end.  And  at  last 
it  was  too  late.  She  was  the  wife  of  Roger 
Chenage,  and  he  soon  let  her  understand  her 
new  position.  In  the  church,  with  the  wed- 
ding guests  standing  around,  his  first  words 
to  her  had  the  tone  of  a  command. 

"Come,  Asia!" 

Only  two  words,  but  they  were  uttered  with 
the  peremptory  air  of  a  master,  and  De  Burg 
looked  at  his  daughter  with  a  quick  and  angry 
inquiry.  Did  she  wish  him,  even  then  and 
there,  to  answer  for  her  ?  Anastasia  met  the 
unspoken  sympathy  with  eyes  full  of  meaning  ; 
there  was  defiance  and  strength  and  satisfac- 
tion in  them,  and  for  many  a  doubtful  day 
De  Burg  rested  himself  in  the  confidence  of 
that  quick,  assuring  glance. 

Wedding  breakfasts  are  often  but  sorry 
affairs ;  how  often  is  their  mirth  fictitious,  how 
often  at  the  bottom  of  the  laugh  and  the  wine 
cup  is  there  some  pretense,  disappointment, 
or  uncertainty.  But  there  was  at  least  the 
semblance  of  joy  in  De  Burg  Hall  while  An- 


3» 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


astasia  queened  it  a  few  hours  longer  in  her 
father's  house.  She  sat  at  the  head  of  the  feast, 
and  all  drank  to  her  loveliness,  and  all  praised 
her  past  and  gave  her  good  wishes  for  her 
future. 

Chenage  was  little  pleased  at  the  secondary 
part  he  had  to  play.  For  he  also  was  splen- 
didly attired  in  ruby  velvet  and  white  satin, 
with  ruby  brooches  fastening  the  white  feathers 
in  his  hat  and  the  satin  points  of  his  doublet. 
However  there  are  times  when  the  surliest  of 
mortals  are  compelled  to  pretend  to  the  virtue 
they  do  not  possess,  and  a  man  has  an  obli- 
gation at  least  to  affect  happiness  on  his  wed- 
ding day.  So  Chenage  drank  deeply,  and 
laughed  loudly,  and  complimented  himself, 
until  he  attained  a  comfortable  state  of  self- 
complaisance. 

Early  in  the  afternoon  his  carriage,  drawn 
by  six  horses,  drove  up  to  De  Burg  for  his 
bride.  Anastasia  saw  it  coming,  and  her  heart 
sank  within  her.  To  hide  her  tears  she  fled  to 
her  room.  There  was  some  excuse  made  of 
necessary  changes  in  her  toilet,  but  with  or 
without  excuse  she  felt  she  could  no  longer 
play  her  part  unless  she  were  permitted  a  little 
space  for  entire  abandonment  of  it.  When 
she  was  surely  alone  and  the  bolt  drawn  be- 
tween her  and  the  world  what  a  transforma- 
tion there  was !  She  wrung  her  hands,  she 
whispered  passionate  words  of  wrong  and  mis- 
ery and  hate.  She  forgot  the  waiting  coach 
and  the  impatient  bridegroom;  she  felt  noth- 
ing and  cared  for  nothing  but  the  outrageous 
and  cruel  mockery  which  had  deprived  her  of 
freedom  and  driven  her  from  the  home  where 
at  least  she  had  been  loved  and  indulged  far 
beyond  the  women  of  her  generation. 

In  such  a  tempest  of  sorrow  she  forgot  time, 
she  forgot  the  ostensible  purpose  for  which 
she  had  sought  her  room.  She  was  recalled 
to  the  facts  of  her  present  state  by  a  sudden 
sense  of  tumult  in  the  hall  where  the  feast  was 
spread.  She  stood  up  and  listened  intently, 
never  doubting  but  that  her  father  and  her 
husband  had  at  length  found  a  good  oppor- 
tunity for  the  quarrel  latent  between  them.  A 
feeling  of  satisfaction  sent  smiles  to  her  lips  and 
a  wicked  dancing  light  to  her  eyes.  She  began 
to  unfasten  the  white  knot  on  her  brocaded 
shoe,  and  to  count  the  pearls  with  which  the 
instep  was  ornamented,  asking  herself  the 
while,  "What  need  to  hurry?"  If  Chenage 
was  getting  his  first  lesson,  she  would  give  her 
father  time  to  make  it  a  very  thorough  one. 

"One,  two,  three,  four  large  pearls,  and 
eleven  small  ones.  I  must  have  lost  one.  What 
is  the  matter  ?  I  swear  they  are  fighting ! 
That  is  my  father's  voice,  and,  by  my  soul !  I 
like  not  its  tone." 

She  instantly  clasped  the  shoe  on  her  foot 


again  and  went  swiftly  back  to  the  wedding 
guests.  All  was  in  an  uproar,  and  De  Burg 
stood  foaming  with  passion  under  the  iron 
grip  of  two  soldiers.  Six  others  stood  at  the 
door,  and  their  captain,  a  stern  old  man,  in- 
sensible to  all  earthly  voices  but  such  as  gave 
an  order,  was  reading  to  De  Burg  the  par- 
ticular one  under  which  he  was  acting.  It 
was  Cromwell's  own,  and  De  Burg  in  his  fury 
spit  at  it. 

Anastasia  needed  no  explanation.  She  clung 
to  her  father  with  tears  and  passionate  out- 
cries, and  when  Chenage  would  have  taken 
her  in  his  own  arms  she  turned  on  him  with 
inconceivable  rage,  and  vowed  that  "he,  and 
only  he,  had  been  the  deceiver  and  the  be- 
trayer of  her  father."  Her  beauty,  her  rich 
apparel,  her  despairing  love  and  grief  for  her 
father,  her  withering  contempt  for  her  hus- 
band, her  reckless  scorn  for  Cromwell  and  all 
of  Cromwell's  doings,  her  vehement  expres- 
sions of  loyalty  to  the  king,  invested  the  girl 
with  an  insolence  and  a  splendor  of  defiance 
which  touched  nearly  every  man  in  the  room. 

Le  Tall  fidgeted  from  window  to  window. 
The  soldiers  glanced  from  under  dropped,  eye- 
lids, and  were  as  sorry  for  her  as  they  dared 
be  for  such  an  incarnation  of  the  world  and 
the  flesh.  Only  the  grim  Ironside  reading 
Cromwell's  order  was  indifferent  to  the  vision 
of  carnal  loveliness.  He  indeed  looked  at  An- 
astasia for  a  moment,  but  it  was  with  repul- 
sion ;  and  though  she  turned  to  him  with  eyes 
swimming  with  tears,  he  gave  the  order  for  De 
Burg's  removal  as  resolutely  as  if  he  had  been 
made  invulnerable  to  the  sweet  influences  of 
womankind. 

There  were  reasons  for  such  insensibility. 
During  his  stay  in  Kendal  he  had  made  him- 
self familiar  with  the  nature,  the  history,  and  the 
life  of  the  De  Burgs.  He  read  Anastasia  as  if 
her  face  was  a  printed  book.  He  had  watched 
all  of  De  Burg's  movements.  He  had  fathomed 
the  depth  of  his  turpitude.  He  had  heard  and 
comprehended  the  whole  affair  relating  to 
Roger  Prideaux.  He  thought  no  better  of 
Anastasia  than  of  her  father.  Her  beauty  was 
the  devil's  beauty,  and  he  saw  behind  it  the 
cruel  heart  and  the  false  tongue.  Silly  men 
might  fall  into  her  snares,  but  Captain  Giles 
Quarritch  —  never ! 

Having  read  aloud  the  order  under  which 
he  acted,  he  gave  the  word  of  command.  Then 
Le  Tall  stepped  forward  and  said : 

"  Captain,  consider  if  herein  bail  may  not  be 
taken.  I  would  myself  do  much." 

"  It  may  not  even  be  put  to  the  question, 
sir.    I  act  upon  first  orders." 

"  At  leastwise  suffer  your  prisoner  to  see  his 
daughter  away,  and  to  make  some  arrange- 
ments concerning  his  household." 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


39 


"  There  needs  no  more  ordering  of  it.  He 
was  ready  to  leave  England  for  France  this 
sunset  had  he  not  been  interrupted  in  his 
intentions." 

"  Take  you  him  to  Lancaster  Castle  or  to 
London  ?  " 

"He  goeth  to  Appleby  jail,  until  the  assize 
settle  the  quality  of  his  guilt." 

There  was  a  moment  of  high-strung  silence, 
a  sharp  cry,  and  Anastasia  fell  senseless  at  her 
father's  feet.  Some  women-servants  were  called, 
and  they  carried  the  insensible  bride  into  an 
adjoining  room. 

She  came  back  to  consciousness  in  a  fit  of 
hysterical  weeping  which  she  was  unable  to 
control.  It  ended  in  a  deep  sleep,  and  the  af- 
ternoon was  far  advanced  when  she  awakened. 
An  ominous  stillness  was  in  the  house.  Refusing 
all  assistance,  she  rose  and  went  to  the  dividing 
door  and  opened  it.  The  table  was  still  cov- 
ered with  the  remains  of  the  feast,  but  the 
guests  had  all  gone.  The  hateful  Parliamen- 
tary soldiers  had  also  left — and  they  had  taken 
her  father  away  with  them.  To  Appleby !  The 
word  rung  in  her  ears  as  if  it  was  beat  upon 
a  thousand  anvils.  Pale  and  distraught,  she 
stood  in  the  doorway  gazing  upon  the  deserted 
banquet.    Chenage  soon  disturbed  her  reverie. 

"  Come,  mistress,"  he  said.  "  If  you  are 
yourself  again,  we  will  go  home.  This  house 
is  worse  than  a  nightmare." 

"  I  will  stay  here  until  my  father  comes  back." 

"  I 'promise  you  will  be  at  Chenage  before 
you  eat  or  sleep  again.  Three  of  my  men  are 
on  the  coach ;  be  pleased  to  say  if  you  will  use 
their  feet  or  your  own." 

Then  she  resolutely  called  her  soul  to  duty. 
She  saw  that  he  would  willingly  humiliate  her 
if  she  permitted  him  the  opportunity,  and  she 
answered:  "I  am  ready.    Go  when  you  will." 

"  Take  off  that  finery;  pearls  are  not  bought 
for  a  penny  or  two.    You  may  lose  them." 

"  You  bought  them  not.  They  are  the  De 
Burg  pearls." 

"  They  were.    They  are  now  mine." 

"  If  they  are  now  yours,  then  I  will  never 
wear  them  more.  Here  !  "  And  she  snatched 
them  from  her  neck  and  arms  and  bosom, 
and  flung  them  on  the  floor  at  his  feet.  Then 
turning  from  him,  she  sent  one  of  her  women 
for  her  cloak  and  another  for  her  hood,  and 
before  Chenage  had  gathered  and  put  safely 
into  his  pockets  the  precious  beads  she  was 
ready  for  the  journey. 

The  afternoon  was  well  on,  and  the  road 
rough  and  lonely.  The  hills  soon  shut  them 
in,  and  as  the  sun  set  the  mist  came  swooping 
down  and  wrapped  them  in  its  damp,  depress- 
ing atmosphere.  Anastasia  sat  gazing  inward, 
backward,  forward,  anywhere  but  on  the  man 
at  her  side;  and  the  servants,  who  had  ex- 


pected wine  and  mirth  and  wedding  gifts,  sat 
silent  also,  wondering  and  disappointed.  Chen- 
age made  several  attempts  to  conciliate  his 
bride,  for  he  felt  both  wounded  and  mortified, 
but  Anastasia  was  as  one  who  heard  not.  Her 
fine  wedding-dress  gleamed  in  the  gathering 
darkness,  but  she  took  no  heed  of  it,  though 
it  caught  the  dust  of  the  highway  and  the  damp 
and  tarnish  of  the  mist  and  the  mud  and  water 
of  the  rocky  becks. 

It  was  nine  o'clock  when  they  reached 
Chenage  Grange,  but  the  summer  twilight 
cast  a  pallid,  mournful  light,  making  all  things 
unreal  and  shadowy.  She  glanced  up  at  the 
house  as  they  approached  it  and  sighed  heav- 
ily. It  stood  gauntly  among  melancholy  moors 
in  the  midst  of  a  grove  of  decaying  trees.  There 
was  a  garden  in  front  of  it,  but  it  was  fallen 
into  neglect,  and  made  sorrowful  by  the  shud- 
dering gloom  of  its  numerous  yew  trees.  A 
doleful  house,  haunted  by  memories  of  evil- 
doing  and  wraiths  of  unredeemed  wrong. 

A  number  of  servants,  old  men  and  women, 
stood  in  the  hall  to  receive  their  new  mis- 
tress. There  were  some  candles  in  the  wall 
sconces,  but  they  made  only  a  dull  light  in  the 
large  empty  place.  Still  it  was  enough  for 
Anastasia  to  see  the  gray  stooping  figures  of 
her  new  domestics  as  they  parted  to  let  her 
pass  between  them. 

Trailing  her  lustrous  dress,  with  a  head 
proudly  lifted,  and  sad  eyes  seeing  nothing  but 
the  steep  stairway  up  which  Chenage  preceded 
her,  Anastasia  entered  her  new  home.  Two 
old  men  soon  afterwards  put  out  the  lights,  and 
as  they  did  so  they  shook  their  heads  at  each 
other  with  a  prophetic  intelligence  of  sorrow. 
When  this  duty  was  done  they  hobbled  back  to 
the  kitchen  fire,  where  the  women,  not  yet  too 
old  to  be  envious  of  the  bride's  beauty,  and  angry 
at  her  for  neglecting  their  special  claim  upon 
her  notice,  sat  muttering  of  evil  portents. 

But  Anastasia  had  at  this  hour  no  thought 
of  conciliation,  no  wish  for  sympathy.  The 
presumption  of  youth  had  told  her  that  she 
should  "  always  dwell  in  painless  towers,"  and 
it  was  hard  for  her  all  at  once  to  be  forced  to 
endure  both  the  present  and  the  oncoming- 
pang,  and  to  acknowledge  to  herself  that  she 
must  bear  her  destiny  as  best  she  could,  know- 
ing well  the  resistless  might  of  necessity. 

XIII. 
OLIVIA     AND     ANASTASIA     WANTED. 

il  When  a  wrong  idea  possesses  any  woman  much 
bitterness  flows  from  her." 

"See  how  faithless  is  the  female  race  —  and  ye 
are  partners  in  what  has  been  done." 

To  be  content  with  little  is  hard ;  to  be  con- 
tent with  a  great  deal  is  almost  impossible. 


4° 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


While  Kelderby  was  nearly  lost,  Lady  Kelder 
had  made  but  very  modest  demands  upon  the 
future;  now  that  there  was  no  strange  finger 
upon  its  title-deeds,  she  was  conscious  of  more 
comprehensive  expectations.  After  the  baron's 
return  she  went  about  her  fair  old  home  with 
something  of  the  same  elation  which  had  made 
her  as  a  bride  so  proudly  happy,  so  gratefully 
aware  of  her  fine  position.  Then  the  care  that 
had  been  second  became  prime,  and  she  felt 
that  it  was  impossible  to  be  content  unless  Na- 
thaniel could  be  induced  to  give  up  Olivia. 

"  And  I  look  to  fight  this  battle  alone,  Jael," 
she  said;  "for  as  the  baron  grows  old,  he 
grows  more  careless  in  particulars.  I  trow  he 
would  make  the  narrow  road  to  heaven  wide 
enough  for  all  sorts  of  men,  even  such  as  the 
Quakers." 

"  I  think,  my  Lady,  you  are  such  an  one  as 
would  like  a  great  company  with  you  on 
heaven's  highway.  Maybe  them  as  wants  to  go 
there  alone  won't  get  there  at  all." 

"  Jael,  I  am  not  a  bigot,  and  you  know  it. 
But  I  do  like  people  to  be  either  saints  or 
sinners." 

"  Not  in  nature,  my  Lady.  There  be  plenty 
of  shades  between  white  and  black,  and  twi- 
light comes  between  day  and  night.  Middling- 
kinds  everywhere." 

"Then  I  will  none  of  them.  The  Rev.  Mr. 
Duttred  says  that  Quakers  have  neither 
churches  nor  priests  nor  creeds,  being  all  in 
themselves.  If  a  man  is  a  Christian  he  has  a 
creed.    You  know  that,  Jael." 

"  Indeed,  my  Lady,  if  men  must  learn  theol- 
ogy ere  they  learn  Christ  our  blessed  heaven 
will  be  empty,  I  know  that,  and  't  is  most  sure 
that  the  Quakers  pattern  their  lives  after  Christ. 
On  Prideaux's  estate  there  be  none  poor,  and 
the  old  and  the  sick  want  neither  help  nor  com- 
fort. Mistress  Prideaux  taught  old  John  of 
Scraffel  Fell  to  read  his  Bible,  and 't  is  a  com- 
mon report  that  she  pays  Dame  Boyd  to  teach 
the  lads  and  lassies  day  by  day." 

"  Small  thanks  to  her.  I  like  not  people  edu- 
cated above  their  wits.  Fill  a  cup  beyond  what 
it  will  hold,  and  it  slops  over  to  no  decent 
purpose;  and  I  can  tell  you  this,  Jael,  the  lit- 
tle cups  are  very  plenty." 

"  True,  my  Lady." 

On  the  very  night  of  his  return  home  the 
baron  had  told  Lady  Kelder  of  Olivia's  in- 
terview with  the  Protector.  "  A  lovely  girl," 
he  said,  "  who  affected  his  spiritual  nature  in 
the  same  way  as  a  beautiful  view  affected  his 
eye." 

"  Who  was  with  her  ?  How  was  she  dressed  ? 
What  was  her  behavior  ?  " 

"  She  came  into  the  presence  with  George 
Fox.  Her  dress  was  of  a  rich,  dark  satin;  her 
head  was  uncovered;  her  hands  were  dropped 


and  lightly  clasped.  She  hath  a  very  comely 
face,  and  great  wisdom  and  composure." 

"  I  will  warrant  the  '  composure,'  for  I  must 
tell  you  I  went  to  call  upon  her,  being  anxious, 
for  Nathaniel's  sake,  to  see  if  there  was  any 
good  thing  in  her.  Composure !  Faith !  she 
was  like  a  marble  woman,  and  I  vow,  as  I  am 
Lady  Kelder,  that  she  almost  dismissed  me 
her  presence." 

"  Nay,  then — " 

"  Oh,  I  mean  not  in  so  many  words,  but  she 
rose  up  and  asked  if  I  would  eat  or  drink,  and 
the  motion  so  fit  into  my  own  mood  that  I  fol- 
lowed it  and  rose  also  without  consideration. 
I  have  had  a  spite  at  myself  ever  since." 

"  I  think,  indeed,  that  Nathaniel  might  seek 
farther  for  a  wife  and  find  worse." 

"  I  would  rather  he  never  married  at  all." 

"  Joan !  Who,  then,  comes  after  him  ?  Would 
you  have  Kelderby  go  to  my  second  cousin 
Nicholas  and  his  sons  ?  " 

"  I  hate  Nicholas  Kelder,  but  he  is  .better 
than  Olivia." 

"  Joan,  you  talk  only  from  your  lips  out- 
wards. The  girl  is  lovely  and  good,  and  hath 
the  likelihood  of  a  fine  estate.  For  my  part,  I 
wish  no  greater  ill  may  ever  come  to  Nathan- 
iel than  his  full  wish  in  the  matter  of  Olivia 
Prideaux." 

"  I  think  she  casts  a  spell  over  every  man. 
If  good  King  James  were  yet  alive  she  would 
be  counted  a  witch.  And  if  she  hath  you  on 
one  side  and  Nathaniel  on  the  othef,  pray 
shall  I  walk  behind  her  ?  " 

"  You  and  I  are  one,  Joan." 

"Not  if  the  Quakeress  comes  between  us. 
And  I  tell  you  plainly,  Odinel,  I  will  not  have 
her  under  this  roof,  nor  yet  will  I  give  Swaff- 
ham  for  her  use,  nor  will  I  ever  give  her  wel- 
come as  Nathaniel's  wife.  Faith !  for  one  so 
wondrous  fair  and  wise  the  place  is  too  small 
for  her  deserts." 

This  was  the  keynote  of  Lady  Kelder's  do- 
mestic mood,  as  that  mood  affected  Nathan- 
iel and  Olivia.  But  Nathaniel  was  a  wise  young 
man,  and  knew  how  to  guide  his  affairs  with- 
out making  any  offensive  parade  of  his  inde- 
pendence. Affection  and  reflection  had  alike 
taught  him  that  there  was  neither  honor  nor 
self-respect  in  a  victory  of  any  kind  over  his 
mother.  He  could,  despite  of  her,  take  his 
own  way ;  but  how  unblessed  and  sad  a  way 
it  would  be  if,  in  order  to  take  it,  he  must 
tread  under  his  feet  even  the  prejudices  of  a 
heart  so  dear  to  him ! 

So  though  he  went  to  see  Olivia  constantly, 
there  was  as  little  remark  as  might  be  concern- 
ing the  visits.  For  life  at  Sandys  had  fallen 
into  orderly  grooves.  Hannah  Mettelane  would 
suffer  no  usual  duty  to  be  neglected.  The  farm- 
men  went  about  the  haymaking  and  shearing 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


4i 


and  harvesting,  as  if  Roger  was  only  on  a  jour- 
ney and  might  be  home  at  any  hour.  The 
confections  and  sweet  waters  were  made  in 
their  order  and  season.  The  still-room  was 
crowded  with  bowls  and  platters  holding  sweet 
herbs  and  brews.  The  atmosphere  of  the  house 
was  like  a  spice-garden,  and  the  garden  itself 
as  gay  as  if  it  was  an  outgarth  of  Paradise. 

Roger  wrote  once  a  week  to  his  daughter  and 
his  sister.  He  made  no  complaint  of  suffering 
or  ill-usage,  and  it  was  so  natural  to  hope  for 
the  best  that  perhaps  more  was  hoped  than 
there  was  warrant  for.  But  Roger's  trial  was 
to  take  place  in  September,  and  the  time  was 
always  spoken  of  as  that  of  "  Roger's  return." 

One  day,  towards  the  end  of  August,  Na- 
thaniel went  to  Sandys  early  in  the  afternoon. 
It  was  a  hot  day,  full  of  brilliant  sunshine.  The 
shadows  were  diaphanously  purplish,  the  winds 
were  all  at  peace,  and  a  mysterious  calm 
brooded  over  the  lonely  land.  Never  had  the 
long,  rambling  house  had  an  air  so  homelike 
and  so  ancient.  It  seemed  as  much  a  part  of  the 
landscape  as  the  distant  hills  or  the  brawling 
trout-stream  which  was  one  of  its  boundaries. 

Between  the  garden  and  the  park  there  was 
a  row  of  sycamore  trees,  and  in  their  amber 
shadows  he  tied  his  horse;  for  he  expected 
Olivia  to  be  in  the  garden,  and  he  went  up 
and  down  it  looking  for  her.  There  was  not 
a  sound  except  the  busy  murmur  of  the  bees 
round  their  hives  —  straw  skeps,  full  of  the  scent 
of  mountain  flowers  and  the  aroma  of  pine 
woods.  Near  them  was  a  trickling  spring,  and 
like  sentinels  around  it  the  August  lilies  stood, 
virgin  flowers  exhaling  the  airs  of  heaven,  and 
clad  in  the  lawn  of  almost  naked  light. 

As  he  gazed  at  them,  spellbound  by  their 
sweet  purity,  he  saw  Olivia  coming  towards 
him.  She  also  was  clothed  in  white,  and  her 
tall,  slight  form,  and  pale,  radiant  face  gave  her 
a  strange  similitude  to  the  flowers.  He  hastened 
to  meet  her ;  he  took  her  hands  in  his,  and  led 
her  to  the  shaded  seat  beside  the  fountain  and 
the  lilies.  How  full  of  meaning  were  their  com- 
mon words  of  courtesy !  How  eloquent  her 
speaking  face,  her  clear,  candid  eyes,  the  light 
touch  of  her  hand  upon  his  arm ! 

He  spoke  to  her  first  of  those  ordinary  mu- 
tual interests  which  he  always  found  it  well  to 
use  as  introductory.  For  Olivia  was  no  bab- 
bler and  no  complainer.  The  tendency  of 
women  with  their  lovers  is  to  meet  them  with 
some  tale  of  sorrow  or  of  petty  tyranny,  and  so 
to  enlist  either  a  true  or  an  affected  sympathy. 
Olivia  would  not  so  wrong  herself;  she  was 
just,  and  would  not  wrong  others;  she  trusted 
Nathaniel's  love,  and  knew  that  it  could  not 
be  increased  by  sentimental  complaining,  nor 
made  more  tender  by  fictitious  opposition. 
She  would  have  scorned  the  love  which  re- 


quired nurturing  by  means  so  false  and  con- 
temptible. 

So  hitherto  their  courtship  had  been  un- 
dimmed  by  unnecessary  complaining  and  tears. 
As  for  their  real  sorrows,  they  were  discussed 
simply,  without  exaggeration,  and  in  con- 
fidence with  all  who  shared  them.  This 
afternoon,  however,  Nathaniel  felt,  rather  than 
saw,  some  new  cause  of  distress ;  but  he  waited 
patiently  for  Olivia  to  open  her  heart  to  him, 
and  she  was  not  in  a  hurry  to  cloud  the  calm 
rapture  of  their  meeting.  She  listened  to  all 
his  doings  and  plans  —  his  hopes  of  a  return 
to  Parliament,  his  militia  honors  and  annoy- 
ances, his  anxieties  about  his  father's  health, 
his  pleasant  sympathies  in  his  mother's  suc- 
cesses with  her  cosmetics  and  confections. 

Then  there  was  a  little  pause.  Her  head 
lay  backwards  against  the  green  wall  of  privet. 
Nathaniel  clasped  her  hand.  The  warm,  sweet 
garden  was  full  of  peace  and  fragrance  ;  it  was 
all  their  own ;  in  their  simple  nearness  to  each 
other  they  were  blissfully  happy.  But  they  did 
not  tell  each  other  so ;  for  the  sense  of  happi- 
ness which  makes  us  silent  is  far  superior  to 
that  which  makes  us  eloquent,  and  Joy  is  shyer 
than  Grief — the  heavenly  visitant  but  flutters 
a  moment  between  two  hearts,  and  is  gone. 
Olivia  broke  the  spell  with  a  sigh,  and  then  he 
heard  the  words  he  had  been  half  fearing  to 
hear: 

"  Nathaniel,  there  hath  been  a  sad  letter 
from  my  father." 

"  My  dear  heart !  I  felt  it.  Surely  he  is  not 
ill  ?  " 

"  My  father  is  well,  but  Asa  Bevin  is  very 
sick  indeed.  I  fear  that  he  will  not  recover. 
Also,  De  Burg  hath  an  inflammation,  and  is 
out  of  reason  and  beyond  management." 

"  De  Burg  '  sick  and  in  prison.'  That  con- 
cerns me,  Olivia." 

"  I  think  so.  My  father  is  caring  for  him, 
but  Asa  is  also  in  his  charge,  and  I  fear  that 
the  labor  will  be  too  great  for  him.    Nathaniel, 

I  think  that  I  ought  to  go  to  Appleby." 

"  I  will  go  for  you.  'T  is  beyond  reason  that 
you  should  go.  Also,  I  do  not  think  that  you 
would  be  let  behind  bars.  And,  my  dear  one, 
how  could  you  bear  it,  if  you  were  ?  " 

"  There  are  more  than  fifty  women  Friends 
now  in  common  jails  for  conscience'  sake.  Many 
of  them  are  even  more  delicately  nurtured  than 
I.  And  Asa  is  not  only  Asa.  There  is  One 
who  deigns  to  hold  Asa's  sufferings  as  his 
own.     I  cannot  have  him  say  to  my  heart, 

I I  was  sick,  and  ye  visited  me  not.'  How  could 
I  bear  such  a  reproach  ?  " 

"  What  says  Mistress  Mettelane  ?  " 
"  She  thinks  that  going  before  our  set  time 
is  but  a  forcing  of  Providence.    But,  Nathaniel, 
my  dear  one,  she  hath  the  making  of  the  elder- 


42 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


flower  wine  on  her  hands,  and  she  cannot  see 
how  a  greater  duty  must  put  by  a  lesser  one. 
Her  conscience  is  very  tender,  but  it  is  near- 
sighted. What  is  far  off,  or  what  is  far  away, 
troubles  it  not." 

"  In  general  it  is  a  good  spirit.  Sufficient 
unto  the  day  is  the  care  of  the  day.  And  in 
this  matter  I  think  you  may  be  guided  by  your 
aunt.   I  will  go  to  Appleby.    I  will  go  at  once." 

"  I  cannot  take  '  think.'  I  must  be  sure. 
And  not  any  one,  not  even  thee,  dear  Nathan- 
iel, can  do  my  duty  for  me." 

"Well,  then?" 

"  I  will  seek  clearness  and  counsel  this 
night,  and  the  way  He  shows  me  I  will  take, 
however  strait  it  be." 

"  O  Olivia !  You  do  not  know  what  a 
jail  is ;  even  to  see  its  horrors  will  terrify  you." 

"  Many  of  my  sisters  are  living  in  its  hor- 
rors. I  wish  not  to  pass  my  days  more  at 
ease  in  this  world  than  Christ  passed  his — than 
those  bearing  his  testimony  have  the  measure 
of." 

"  But,  dearest,  this  jail  is  a  very  Valley  of 
Death." 

"  The  snares  of  life  are  greater  than  the 
fears  of  death.  And  thou  knowest  that  there  is 
a  life  unknown,  hid  from  men,  but  most  inti- 
mate with  God.  This  life  is  indifferent  to  its 
surroundings.  It  is  as  possible  in  Appleby 
jail  as  in  this  fair  garden  of  Sandys.  A  dear 
friend  who  visited  my  father  told  him  that 
while  lying  in  the  common  jail  at  Dover  Cas- 
tle he  knew  the  glory  of  this  hidden  life. 
'  Roger,'  he  said,  '  as  I  lay  upon  my  bed  of 
straw  in  a  comfortable  sleep  and  rest,  the  hand 
of  my  God  fell  upon  me,  and  his  sweet  and 
comforting  presence  awakened  me,  and  so 
continued  with  me  unto  the  morning  watch ; 
and  my  soul  was  filled  with  his  living  presence, 
as  with  a  mighty  river,  so  that  nothing  ap- 
peared but  joy  and  gladness.'  This  also  is 
my  God,  and  I  have  waited  for  him.  So  thou 
seest  this  life  hid  with  God  is  not  dependent 
on  outward  circumstances.  And  if  I  would 
keep  peace  at  home  —  that  is,  in  my  own 
soul  —  I  must  not  wrong  my  conscience.  In 
the  morning,  come,  and  I  will  go  with  thee, 
or  send  by  thee ;  I  am  ready,  as  the  way  is 
opened." 

"  I  will  come.  What  are  the  particulars  con- 
cerning my  cousin  De  Burg  ?  " 

"He  hath  been  unmanageable  from  the  first, 
and  hath  drunk  much  wine.  Now  he  knows 
not  anything,  and  my  father  thinks  him  to  be 
in  a  very  bad  condition." 

"  A  sharp  sauce  has  De  Burg  got  himself 
with  the  cursedness  of  his  own  way." 

"Thou  shouldst  not  reproach  the  unhappy. 
The  hand  of  God  is  upon  them." 

He  could  oppose  her  will  no  longer.   Her 


holy  eyes  pleaded  with  him — nay,  they  com- 
manded him,  and  he  felt  obliged  to  heed 
them. 

But  it  was  with  an  anxious  and  sorrowful 
heart  that  he  returned  to  Kelderby.  The  baron 
and  Lady  Kelder  had  been  talking  of  their 
son  and  Olivia  Prideaux,  and  Lady  Kelder 
was  angry  at  what  she  considered  the  sinful 
indifference  of  her  husband.  But  Kelder  had 
come  to  that  time  of  life  when  he  did  not  care 
to  be  continually  meddling  with  what  he  could 
not  mend.  And  he  knew  his  son  well  enough 
to  be  sure  that  passionate  disapproval  and 
sharp  words  would  not  change  him. 

"  Dear  heart !  "  he  said,  "  you  are  wide  and 
foolish  in  your  conjectures  when  you  guess 
at  Nathaniel's  temper.  You  would  succeed 
better  with  fewer  and  kinder  words,  constantly 
yet  not  perversely  urged.  Where  one  cannot 
drive  a  nail,  Joan,  it  is  often  possible  to  put  in 
a  screw." 

But  women,  as  a  rule,  prefer  to  fasten  their 
opinions  with  the  nail,  and  on  this  night  the 
method  appeared  a  peculiarly  good  one  to 
Lady  Kelder.  She  was  in  that  impatient  mood 
which  cannot  endure  suspense.  She  wanted  to 
know  the  best  and  the  worst  of  the  matter, — 
if  there  was  any  best  in  it, —  and  when  she 
turned  to  the  opening  door  which  admitted 
Nathaniel,  the  inquiry  in  all  its  aggressive 
indignation  was  on  her  face. 

Nathaniel  was  dusty  and  weary,  for  he  had 
ridden  hard,  and  there  was  in  his  countenance 
and  air  a  sense  of  trouble  which  displeased  and 
piqued  his  mother.  She  felt  at  once  that  it  re- 
ferred to  Sandys.  Nathaniel  always  brought 
trouble  home  by  that  way.  She  looked 
pointedly  at  his  disordered  toilet,  and  Na- 
thaniel nervously  announced  his  intention  of 
renewing  it  before  he  ate.  She  permitted  him  to 
do  so  without  dissent.  He  would  have  given 
the  Quakeress  so  much  respect,  she  was  sure, 
and  she  would  not  have  one  tittle  less  for  her 
own  part.  But  she  atoned  for  this  strict  de- 
mand of  the  anise  and  cummin  due  to  affec- 
tion by  ordering  him  just  the  refreshment  she 
knew  he  would  enjoy.  And  she  welcomed 
him  to  it  with  smiles,  and  served  the  food  with 
her  own  hands. 

Nathaniel  showed  his  pleasure  and  gratitude 
by  lifting  her  face  to  his  own  and  kissing  it. 
She  almost  forgave  him  everything  in  that 
gentle  act,  until  she  reflected  that  he  had 
probably  just  kissed  also  "  that  Quaker  girl." 
The  thought  chilled  her  at  once.  She  sat  down, 
and  waited  for  her  opportunity. 

The  baron  had  laid  aside  his  book,  and  was 
walking  up  and  down  the  fast-darkening  room. 
Something  in  his  son's  face  and  manner  had 
impressed  him,  as  well  as  Lady  Kelder,  with 
a  sense  of  unpleasant  news ;  and  he  had  been 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


43 


listening  to  her  anticipations  of  more  trouble 
with  a  presentiment  that  they  were  true. 

"  Where  have  you  been,  Nathaniel  ?  " 

"  I  have  been  to  Sandys,  father." 

"  Of  course.  His  horse  goes  as  naturally 
to  Sandys,  Baron,  as  it  goes  to  its  manger." 

Nathaniel  glanced  at  his  mother's  darkening 
face,  but  made  no  answer.  The  baron  said 
"  Chut !  "  impatiently,  and  stood  in  the  middle 
of  the  room,  looking  at  his  son. 

"  We  are  expecting  ill  news  from  you,  Na- 
thaniel, and,  as  all  seasons  are  seasonable  for 
men  to  be  anxious  and  unhappy,  deliver  it  with- 
out preliminaries." 

"  De  Burg  is  very  ill.  He  has  lost  his  reason, 
and  is,  I  think,  like  to  die." 

"  Well,  then,  only  death  restrains  wicked 
men  from  doing  more  mischief." 

"  Dear  mother,  he  is  of  our  kin.  He  is  alone, 
and  sick,  and  in  prison.  You  know  what  I 
ought  to  do." 

"  You  ought  to  leave  him  alone,  and  sick, 
and  in  prison.  Never  does  God  Almighty  give 
the  wicked  their  desert  in  this  world  but  some 
one,  out  of  a  spurious  and  unrighteous  pity,  must 
interfere  with  the  Almighty's  justice.  Leave 
De  Burg  alone.  There  are  poisonous  families 
as  there  are  poisonous  reptiles ;  the  De  Burgs 
hurt  all  who  come  nigh  them." 

"  What  is  your  thought,  Nathaniel  ?  " 

"  I  think,  father,  that  I  ought  to  go  to  Ap- 
pleby, and  see  that  our  cousin  hath  proper 
care.  If  a  good  man  is  sick,  God  makes  his 
bed  for  him,  and  then  how  can  it  choose  but 
be  well  made,  and  be  made  to  please  him  ? 
But  the  sick-bed  of  a  bad  man,  without  earthly 
friends  or  heavenly  friends  !  Sure,  it  is  a  pite- 
ous case,  father.    What  say  you  ?  " 

"  If  your  conscience  bids  you  go,  Nathaniel, 
you  get  your  orders  from  headquarters.  I  dare 
not  give  you  counter- orders.  Only  be  sure 
that  you  feel  what  you  think,  or  else  you  lie  to 
yourself." 

"  It  seems  to  me,  Baron,  that  your  religion 
is  for  use  in  some  other  life  than  this  one. 
When  God  punishes  our  enemies  we  have 
plenty  of  warrant  for  rejoicing  in  their  pun- 
ishment." 

"  An  eye  for  an  eye,  truly,  in  the  Old  Testa- 
ment. But,  Joan,  we  have  come  not  unto 
Sinai,  but  unto  Mount  Zion  and  the  gospel 
of  peace  and  good-will." 

"  Was  it  indeed  good-will  that  made  Paul 
strike  Elymas  blind  ?  and  St.  Peter  slay  An- 
anias and  Sapphira  for  a  sin  which  Peter 
himself  had  been  guilty  of  in  a  worse  kind  ? 
Was  it  a  gospel  of  good-will  that  made  the  dis- 
ciples forbid  the  Syro-Phenician  woman  ?  Yet 
they  also  had  come  under  the  dispensation  of 
Mount  Zion." 

"They  were  but  men,  dear  Joan.   Let  us 


look  higher.  What  of  the  works  of  Jesus 
Christ  ?  Were  they  not  all  saving  works  ?  It  is 
not  Paul,  not  Peter,  but  Christ,  that  we  must 
copy." 

"  It  seemeth  to  me  that  it  goes  harder  with 
saints  than  sinners  on  all  hands." 

Neither  Nathaniel  nor  the  baron  answered 
her.  They  were  both  capable  of  that  restraint 
which  is  characteristic  of  real  strength.  Na- 
thaniel was  sure  of  his  duty,  and  the  baron 
was  not  inclined  to  tamper  with  either  his  own 
or  his  son's  conscience.  He  had  come  to  those 
reasonable  years  when  the  forces  of  the  senses 
and  the  body  retire  into  the  mind.  For  the 
evening  of  a  good  life  brings  its  lamp  with  it. 
and  by  this  light  Baron  Kelder  saw  many 
things  clearly  that  he  had  not  seen  at  all  when 
his  natural  sight  was  keen  and  undimmed.  So, 
understanding  there  was  no  wisdom  like  si- 
lence, he  held  his  peace,  and  continued  his 
soft,  slow  walk  up  and  down  the  room.  But 
his  manner  was  that  of  one  who  has  exam- 
ined a  subject  and  decided  upon  it. 

"  Our  good  is  what  does  us  good,  and  we 
are  not  innocent  if  we  harm  ourselves.  I  don't 
think  the  Almighty  objects  if  we  care  a  little 
for  our  own  welfare.  There  is  always  fever  in 
a  jail,  and  I  think,  Baron,  you  and  Nathaniel 
ought  to  remember  that." 

"  Asa  Bevin  is  very  ill  with  jail  fever." 

The  words  cost  Nathaniel  an  effort.  He  felt 
that  he  ought  to  have  spoken  of  Asa,  and  of 
Olivia's  desire  to  go  to  Appleby,  before  he  dis- 
cussed the  case  of  De  Burg.  Now  he  must 
suffer  —  almost  righteously  —  the  suspicion 
sure  to  follow  his  belated  honesty.  Lady  Kel- 
der looked  quickly  at  him,  and  he  was  still  in- 
nocent and  ingenuous  enough  to  blush  for  his 
want  of  candor. 

"  Is  the  Quaker  Prideaux  sick  also  ?  " 

"  He  is  well,  but  he  is  worn  out  with  nurs- 
ing both  Asa  and  De  Burg." 

"  Is  the  Quakeress  going  to  Appleby  ?  " 

"'Tis  yet  uncertain.  Her  aunt  is  opposed 
to  the  journey  until  the  set  time  arrives. 
Olivia  Prideaux  has  not  yet  heard  '  the  Voice  ' 
she  waits  for." 

"  Notify  the  girl  by  day-dawning  that  you 
are  going.  You  will  see  then  that  she  will 
hear  what  she  desires  to  hear.  Nathaniel,  I 
would  have  taken  the  shame  and  wrong  more 
easily  had  you  given  it  to  me  with  honesty. 
'T  is  a  most  evil  journey  that  De  Burg  has  to 
be  cloak  for." 

She  felt  that  there  was  enough  of  truth  in 
this  accusation  to  warrant  it.  It  gave  her  a 
justifiable  cause  of  reproach,  and  honorable 
exit  from  a  position  hard  to  maintain.  Yet 
she  left  the  room  dissatisfied  with  herself,  and 
convinced  —  though  she  had  prevented  Na- 
thaniel  from  convincing  her  —  that  her  son 


44 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


was  innocent  of  the  deception  she  affected  to 
believe  in. 

Silence  followed  her  departure.  The  baron 
sat  down  in  his  chair  and  closed  his  eyes.  He 
had  the  attitude  of  a  man  who,  having  come 
near  to  his  journey's  end,  has  ceased  to  interest 
himself  about  the  peculiarities  of  the  road.  Na- 
thaniel moved  away  from  the  table.  A  servant 
came  in  with  lights,  another  carried  out  the 
used  platters  and  broken  meat.  There  was 
not  a  word  spoken,  but  the  silence  was  a  rest- 
ful one :  it  made  no  impression  of  ill-feeling 
upon  those  who  were  unconcerned  in  it ;  it 
fell  upon  Nathaniel's  fretted  heart  like  a  cool 
shadow. 

He  was  the  first  to  break  its  spell.  "  Father,  I 
shall  leave  early  in  the  morning.  To  my  mother 
say  all  for  me  that  you  think  kind  and  right." 

"  Yes,  yes.  But  she  loves  you,  Nathaniel  — 
and  she  suffers." 

"  I  wish  she  would  not  take  or  make  trouble 
on  this  subject." 

"  If  she  could  forget  that  you  are  her  son, 
it  would  be  possible.    Would  you  wish  it  ?  " 

"  God  forbid !  Do  you  object  to  my  caring 
for  De  Burg  ?  " 

"  I  thank  you  for  it.  If  you  go  not,  then  I 
shall  go  myself.  I  was  wondering  if  Mistress 
Chenage  knew  of  her  father's  sickness." 

"  I  deem  it  unlikely.  Roger  Prideaux  would 
not  write  to  her.  There  is  no  one  else  to  do  so." 

"  I  will  write  her  a  letter  to-morrow.  Luke 
Tyson  can  carry  it." 

"  'T  is  a  kind  thought.  Since  her  marriage 
I  have  not  seen  her.  Before,  't  was  a  strange 
day  if  she  was  not  on  Kendal  streets." 

"  I  know  not  Roger  Chenage,  but  his  father 
had  an  ill  name.  Hard  men  are  the  Che- 
nages — and  have  been." 

He  said  the  words  musingly,  and  Nathaniel 
did  not  reply  to  them.  A  reluctance  to  con- 
verse, a  disposition  to  reflection,  would  not  be 
put  aside  by  any  matter  of  conversation.  And 
both  men  were  so  frank  with  themselves  and 
with  each  other  as  to  admit  and  welcome 
this  strange  central  longing  for  rest.  For  as  the 
whirlwind  has  its  heart  of  peace,  so  the  truest 
life,  though  in  a  vortex  of  wheeling,  restless 
cares,  has  also  its  innermost  cell  into  which  it 
retires  when  it  is  weary,  in  order  that  it  may 
be  alone  with  that  —  call  it  by  whatever  name 
we  will  —  which  is  not  self. 

Nathaniel  left  Kelderby  so  early  next  morn- 
ing that  he  was  at  Sandys  in  time  for  break- 
fast. He  had  no  need  to  ask  for  Olivia's 
decision;  the  preparations  for  the  journey  were 
evident.  Aunt  Hannah,  a  little  flustered  and 
worried,  with  her  best  dress  turned  back  and 
pinned  at  the  waist,  was  giving  directions  to 
the  servants.  The  coach  was  at  the  door,  and 
two  men  were  packing  into  it  a  number  of 


those  trivialities  without  which  women  do  not 
travel.  Olivia  soon  appeared  in  a  gray  duffle 
dress  and  cloak,  and  a  hood  of  black  silk 
upon  her  head. 

"  My  dear  Nathaniel !  " 

"  You  are  going,  then,  Olivia  ?  " 

"  I  am  sure  it  is  my  duty  to  go." 

"  Maybe  you  are  a  bit  opinion-tied  in  such 
matters,  Olivia.  Surely  to  goodness,  if  God 
Almighty  wanted  some  help  for  Roger  and 
Asa  Bevin,  he  would  be  as  likely  to  think  of  a 
middle-aged  woman  like  Hannah  Mettelane 
as  of  a  slip  of  a  girl  who  has  n't  got  her  full 
strength  yet.  And  I  must  say  that  the  Lord 
has  not  given  me  any  orders  about  going  to 
Appleby." 

"  Didst  thou  ask  him  for  any,  Aunt  Han- 
nah ?  " 

"Nay,  my  dear  lass,  I  did  not.  I  do  my 
day-by-day  duty,  content  with  the  charge  of 
it.  Many  shoulders  ask  for  burdens  they  are  n't 
fit  to  bear." 

"  But  the  cross  is  not  to  be  passed,  Aunt 
Hannah." 

"  To  be  sure  it  is  n't.  I  never  pass  a  cross 
that  is  in  my  way,  Olivia ;  and  I  never  go  out 
of  my  way  to  find  a  cross.  But  you  take  after 
your  father;  you  cannot  be  satisfied  unless  you 
are  helping  other  people  to  bear  their  crosses. 
There  now !  say  no  more.  I  am  ready  to  go 
with  you,  though  it  is  a  bit  hard  to  leave  a 
house  like  this  with  servants.  You  know  how 
they  go  hugger-muggering  about,  doing  naught 
at  all  they  can  help  doing,  and  doing  every- 
thing wrong  they  have  to  put  their  hands  to. 
However,  we  must  do  right,  whatever  happens, 
and  may  we  prosper !  " 

"  I  think,  Mistress  Mettelane,  that  we  can- 
not be  wrong  in  a  work  of  charity  and  human 
kindness." 

."  True,  Captain.  Charity  is  a  great  things 
but  there  is  a  deal  to  be  said  for  the  little 
household  graces  that  never  go  to  church  and 
market,  but  just  stay  at  home  and  make  a 
quiet,  joyful  life  possible.  Dear  me!  we  should 
be  on  the  move  now.  Come,  Olivia !  We  must 
take  time  while  time  is,  for  time  will  away." 

"  I  think  we  shall  have  a  good  journey." 

"  Well,  Captain,  I  think  so,  too.  I  always 
hope  for  the  best,  and  we  never  know  where 
a  blessing  may  light.  Jeffrey  threw  his  staff 
this  morning  when  he  brought  the  coach  to 
the  door,  and  it  fell  the  way  we  are  to  take, — 
Appleby  way, —  and  that  is  a  good  sign  for 
any  journey." 

They  were  making  their  last  preparations 
as  Hannah  Mettelane  talked.  With  her  pleas- 
ant garrulousness  she  was  trying  to  put  aside 
that  sense  of  leave-taking  which,  under  the 
circumstances,  could  not  be  void  of  many 
fears  and  anxieties ;  and  Olivia  perceived  and 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


45 


seconded  her  kind  intention  as  well  as  she  was 
able.  As  she  stood  tying  her  hood  and  cloak, 
she  said : 

"John  Duttred called  last  night,  Nathaniel, 
and  said  many  kind  things." 

"  And  some  that  were  n't  as  kind  as  might 
have  been.  But  I  let  him  feel  that  ministers 
have  n't  a  monopoly  of  sharp  talk,  for  when  he 
began  about  the  Good  Samaritan,  I  said :  '  If 
I  was  a  minister,  John  Duttred,  I  would  let 
that  parable  lie  quiet.  It  sets  ministers  in  a  bad 
light  —  it  does  that! '  "  And  Hannah  laughed 
good-naturedly,  and  with  the  laugh  put  her 
first  foot  into  the  coach. 

While  the  two  ladies,  accompanied  by  Na- 
thaniel, traveled  the  hot,  dusty  highway  which 
led  to  Appleby,  Luke  Tyson  was  going  at  a 
comfortable  speed  towards  Chenage  Grange. 
The  baron  had  given  him  no  special  orders  to 
hurry,  and  Luke  was  naturally  of  a  grave  and 
deliberate  temper.  He  staid  at  various  farm- 
houses for  a  drink  of  milk,  and  he  had  two  long 
religious  discussions  —  one  with  a  Quaker  lay- 
ing a  stone  wall,  and  the  other  with  a  dreamy 
Fifth  Monarchy  fanatic,  who  was  singing  "Jeru- 
salem the  Golden"  as  he  rode  slowly  through 
the  ferns  and  heather  of  Chenage  Moor. 

It  was  about  seven  in  the  evening  when  he 
reached  the  Grange.  The  doors  were  open, 
and  the  sun  still  above  the  horizon.  But  nev- 
ertheless the  house  had  a  lonely,  inhospitable 
look,  and  he  had  to  wait  several  minutes  be- 
fore any  servant  appeared  to  inquire  his  er- 
rand. They  were  all  at  meat,  and  pleasantly 
employed  in  masticating  their  mutton  and  dis- 
cussing the  attitude  of  their  master  and  mis- 
tress to  each  other,  as  reported  by  the  old 
steward  Gilbert. 

"  She  be  a  Tartar,  she  be  that !  I  wonder 
Master  bides  her  airs  and  her  tempers  as  well 
as  he  do." 

"  Master  allays  speaks  middling  sharp  like 
to  her.  He  speaks  so  all  day  long  and  every 
day.  As  for  her  temper,  it  's  past  all ;  and  I 
don't  wonder  it  breeds  temper.  Master  never 
was  a  peaceable  sort  of  a  fellow.  There  is 
somebody  halloing,  and  has  been  for  five 
minutes.  One  never  can  get  time  to  eat  a  bit 
of  meat  and  have  a  comfortable  talk  without 
being  put  about  one  way  or  another.  Thomas 
Hodges,  go  and  see  whatever  that  fool  is  hal- 
loing for." 

Thomas  was  detained  at  least  ten  minutes, 
and  curiosity  was  greatly  excited.  When  he 
returned  to  the  kitchen  there  were  plenty  of 
questions  for  him  to  answer. 

"  Why,  Thomas,  whatever  has  been  the 
matter  ?  " 

"  A  letter  for  Mistress's  own  hand." 

"  Who  brought  it  ?  " 

"  One  of  the  men  from  Kelderby." 


"  'T  would  be  from  the  young  captain,  I  '11 
warrant.  He  was  her  servant  for  long  years, 
and  sick  with  love  for  her.  Stephen  of  Tip- 
toe, De  Burg's  old  shepherd,  told  me  that 
much." 

"What  did  Master  say?  Out  with  it, 
Thomas." 

"  He  said  nothing.  But  lass-a-day  !  I  would 
n't  be  Mistress  Chenage  when  he  comes  to  his 
tongue." 

"  Had  n't  you  better  ask  Kelder's  man  in  to 
a  bite  ?  He  '11  maybe  know  what  message  he 
brought." 

"  He  is  gone.  Master  bid  me  send  him  off, 
or  loose  the  dogs  on  him.  He  went  pretty 
quickly.  I  say  it  is  hard  on  us.  If  ever  a  caller 
comes  to  our  gates,  it  is  'Be  off !  or  the  dogs 
will  know  the  reason  why.'  " 

"  I  'd  like  to  hear  what  's  going  on." 

"  How  was  Master  ?  " 

"  A  good  bit  foxed.  He  had  drunk  a  bottle." 

In  fact  Chenage  was  so  far  "  foxed  "  that  for 
a  moment  or  two  he  did  not  realize  the  full 
importance  of  Thomas's  message.  But  Anas- 
tasia  did.  Before  her  husband  could  collect 
his  sottish  senses,  she  had  taken  the  letter  and 
left  the  room.  Then  Chenage  could  but  make 
inquiries,  and  give  the  brutal  and  inhospitable 
order  which  hurried  Luke  Tyson  beyond  his 
boundaries.  The  door  shut,  he  stood  hesi- 
tating whether  to  finish  his  wine  or  to  follow  his 
wife  and  take  the  letter  from  her. 

Really  he  was  beyond  hesitation:  he  had 
got  to  a  point  where  he  was  the  slave  of  the 
bottle,  and  he  sat  down  and  drew  it  closer  to 
him.  "  She  has  read  every  cursed  word  in  it 
by  this  time,"  he  muttered ;  "  and  I  will  make 
her  give  it  to  me  when  I  am  ready  for  it.  I  '11 
wager  a  crown  it  was  from  Nat  Kelder.  I  '11 
say  it  was,  and  swear  it  too  !  Oh,  oh,  Mistress ! 
wait  till  I  am  ready  to  read  the  letter  to  you. 
'T  will  be  a  pretty  pastime  !  "  And  he  refilled 
his  glass  and  drank  to  the  anticipation. 

In  the  mean  time  Anastasia,  having  possessed 
herself  of  the  letter,  ran  rapidly  with  it  to  her 
room.  She  bolted  the  door,  and  then  stood 
listening  with  the  white  paper  pressed  tightly 
against  her  breast.  She  had  the  air  of  a  woman 
prepared  to  defend  it  to  the  last  extremity  and 
then  destroy  it.  But  as  the  moments  flew  by, 
and  there  were  no  blundering,  heavy  footsteps 
upon  the  stairs  or  corridor,  the  hunted  look 
died  out  of  her  eyes.  She  sank  into  a  chair, 
pale  and  trembling.  Her  heart  beat  wildly  with 
hope,  and  then  sickened  with  the  fear  of  dis- 
appointment. She  sat  gazing  at  the  seal,  desir- 
ing yet  fearing  the  revelation  which  would 
follow  the  breaking  of  it. 

"  If  it  should  be  from  John  !  "  The  writing 
was  not  John's  writing,  and  the  messenger  was 
not  John's  messenger,  but  "  if  it  should  be !  " 


46 


FRIEND    OLIVIA. 


She  flushed  scarlet  with  the  hopes  such  a 
thought  bred  in  her. 

The  few  weeks  of  married  life  had  made  a 
great  change.  Fear  lurked  in  the  bright  dark- 
ness of  her  eyes,  and  her  once  gay,  thoughtless 
face  had  become  hard  and  watchful.  Her 
sunny  stream  of  song  was  frozen.  Her  lips 
had  grown  unfamiliar  with  smiles,  and  she 
habitually,  often  very  provokingly,  took  refuge 
in  a  stubborn  silence.  Even  her  dress  had  the 
pathos  of  apathetic  beauty.  She  delighted  in 
jewels,  yet  in  her  present  case  disdained  to  wear 
them.  Her  brocades  and  ribbons  and  laces 
were  out  of  tone  with  her  mood  and  surround- 
ings ;  she  could  no  more  adorn  herself  in  them 
than  she  could  touch  the  lute  or  sing  her  old 
merry  ballads. 

This  night  her  dress  was  of  white  flax-cloth, 
falling  away  from  her  throat  and  elbows  in 
cascades  of  lace  ;  and  some  remnant  of  inex- 
tinguishable vanity  had  made  her  put  clove 
carnations  in  her  bosom.  But  the  gown  was 
crumpled,  and  it  was  not  as  becoming  to  her 
as  the  vivid  colors  she  had  been  accustomed 
to  wear.  She  was  a  tropical  bird  in  the  plumage 
of  a  sparrow. 

With  the  letter  in  her  hand,  and  her  dark 
curling  hair  falling  over  her  white  throat  and 
her  white  garment,  she  sat  still  for  a  few  mo- 
ments, and  then  suddenly,  with  a  swift  move- 
ment, broke  the  seal  and  spread  the  open 
paper  before  her.  It  contained  so  few  lines 
that  its  address  "  To  Mistress  Chenage  "  and 
its  signature  of  "  Odinel  Kelder "  met  her 
eyes  at  the  same  moment. 

To  Mistress  Chenage:  Your  father,  my  cousin, 
Stephen  de  Burg,  is  very  ill.  I  thought  you  might 
like  to  go  to  him  at  once.  My  son  Nathaniel  left  for 
Appleby  this  morning.  He  will  care  for  him  in  the 
mean  time.  With  respect  and  well-wishing,  your 
servant,  Odinel  Kelder. 

That  was  the  burden  of  it,  and  oh,  how 
heavy  a  burden !  Anastasia  loved  her  father 
with  her  whole  heart.    She  felt  as  if  the  wings 


doubtful  of  all  realization  of  her  plans.  Her 
head  ached  and  throbbed;  she  was  soon  con- 
quered by  sheer  physical  suffering.  It  would 
be  impossible  to  discuss  the  circumstance  with 
Chenage  until  the  morning,  and  she  resolved 
to  seek  in  sleep  oblivion  from  her  pain  and 
sorrow. 

Mechanically,  from  mere  force  of  habit,  she 
went  to  her  mirror  and  began  to  remove  her 
dress  before  it.  She  looked  with  a  sad  pity  at 
her  wan  face,  and  then  in  a  moment  her  whole 
expression  changed.  She  had  bared  her  arm 
and  neck,  and  on  the  white  flesh  there  were 
bruises  from  a  brutal  hand.  She  looked  stead- 
ily at  them;  she  counted  every  mark;  she 
toucned  the  wounded  flesh  with  a  tender 
hand;  and,  before  she  was  aware, tears — -a slow, 
heavy  rain  of  tears  —  fell  in  pity  for  her  hard 
fate.  When  we  weep  for  ourselves  we  find 
either  self-evolved  consolation,  or  else  the  idea 
of  retribution  grows  with  magical  swiftness  un- 
der that  bitter  rain.  Retribution!  Itwastheone 
idea  which  Anastasia  nourished.  Everything 
was  made  to  feed  it.  She  kept  a  strict  account 
against  Roger  Chenage.  Scorn,  insult,  cruelty, 
wrong — every  manifestation  of  them  was  clear 
in  her  memory.  One  event  was  to  balance  all 
—  one  event  for  which  she  eagerly  longed  and 
watched.  "  When  John  comes  !  "  These  three 
words  were  her  solace  for  every  indignity. 

And  John  was  coming  quickly ;  of  that  she 
was  unquestionably,  indisputably  convinced. 
The  whistle  of  the  winds  in  his  sails,  the  rat- 
tle of  the  cordage,  the  hoarse  cries  of  the 
sailors  —  she  heard  them  as  she  lay  dreaming 
by  day  and  night ;  and  though  generally  the 
prophesying  cards  lay  with  "delay  "  and  "dis- 
appointment," she  trusted  to  the  divination  of 
her  heart. 

So,  whether  it  was  the  hand  or  the  tongue 
that  struck  her,  she  possessed  her  soul  in  such 
a  strange  silence  as  would  have  rendered  any 
man  less  stupid  than  Chenage  watchful  and 
suspicious.  He  made  her  delicate  flesh  wince 
with  shameful  pain  and  her  hot  blood   boil 


of  a  dove  would  be  too  slow  to  carry  her  to  with  passion,  but  she  pacified  the  raging  soul 

his  sick-bed.     "  My  father  !    my  father !  "  she  within  her  by  a  whisper  pregnant  with  venge- 

murmured  as  she  walked  restlessly,  miserably,  ful  retribution  —  "  When  John  comes  /  " 
about  the  room,  uncertainly  planning,  because 

(To  be  continued.)  Amelia  E.  Barr. 


CHICKENS    FOR    USE    AND 


BEAUTY.1 


HERE  has  been,  dur- 
ing the  last  quarter  of 
a  century,  a  remarkable 
improvement  in  domes- 
tic poultry.  The  mot- 
ley array  of  fowls  vary- 
ing in  size  and  color, 
as  uncertain  in  marking 
as  the  pattern  of  a  crazy- 
quilt,  and  creating  an 
impression  as  distinc- 
tively unfavorable  as 
that  which  the  ragged 
followers  o  f  Falstaff  pro- 
duced, has  given  place 
to  well-defined  breeds, 
carefully  differentiated 
into  varieties,  with  col- 
ors as  rich  in  hue  and 
as  regularly  disposed  as 
if  laid  on  by  the  hand 
of  the  artist.  The  fan- 
cier, to  whom  we  are  in- 
debted for  this  wonder- 


ful transformation,  is  indeed  an  artist,  working 

not  in  lifeless  clay  and  dead  pigments,  but  in    back  a  rich,  deep  vinous  rust  color;  the  tail 


hen,  differing  in  size,  color,  and  particular 
characteristics,  should  be  descendants  of  a 
common  ancestor,  the  Gallus  bankivus,  at  first 
seems  incredible.  To  this  conclusion,  however, 
the  best  informed  naturalists  have  come.  It  is 
true  that  the  almost  infinite  plasticity  of  the 
chicken,  even  at  the  present  day,  after  it 
has  been  sought  to  fix  its  characteristics  by 
careful  selection  through  many  generations, 
prepares  the  mind  to  accept  more  readily 
the  scientific  conclusion  of  a  common  origin. 
The  Gallus  bankivus  is  a  bird  of  compact 
form,  broad  across  the  back  and  shoulders, 
with  an  erect  carriage,  protruding  breast,  and 
tail  borne  nearly  horizontal,  the  tips  of  the 
sickle-feathers  barely  clearing  the  ground. 
The  plumage  is  abundant,  and  the  hackles,  or 
feathers  of  the  neck,  and  upper  tail- coverts  are 
linear,  pointed,  and  drooping.  The  head  and 
face  are  bare,  the  comb  is  high  and  serrated, 
two  wattles  depend  from  the  base  of  the 
bill,  and  similar  but  smaller  excrescences  exist 
under  each  ear.  The  colors  of  the  males  are  : 
upon  the  head  and  neck  bright  orange,  fading 
to  pale  and  golden  towards  the  back ;  upon  the 


animate  bodies  and  living  colors.  Under  his 
hand  the  unattractive  has  become  attractive, 
ugliness  has  yielded  to  beauty.  But  his  work 
has  not  ended  with  this  external  transforma- 
tion: the  inner  and  practical  qualities  have 
undergone  a  similar  change;  productiveness 
has  been  increased,  weight  augmented,  fatten- 
ing power  improved.  Such  fowls  as  are  bred 
to-day  are  not  only  more  beautiful  but  more 
profitable  than  those  of  twenty-five  years  ago. 


coverts  fiery  orange,  golden  tipped ;  the  tail, 
upper  coverts,  and  sickle-feathers  black  with  a 
green  gloss;  wing-coverts  like  the  back, but  the 
last  two  rows  black  with  a  green  gloss;  the 
secondaries  of  the  wing  chestnut  on  the  outer 
or  exposed  web  and  dusky  within ;  the  primaries 
dusky;  and  all  the  lower  parts  black.  The 
plumage  of  the  female  is  more  somber  —  the 
neck  golden  or  tawny,  every  feather  centered 
with  brownish-black,  all  the  upper  parts  of 


This  increased  profitableness  has  produced  a    a  burnt  umber,  and  all  the  under  parts  reddish- 
new  industry  —  the  raising  of  chickens  and  eggs    brown.   The  general  aspect  and  characteristics 


for  market  as  a  sole  employment.  With  the 
old-time  fowls  such  an  industry  would  have 
been  folly,  but  with  the  modern  fowl  it  has 
proved  a  success.  This  improvement  in  ex- 
ternal characteristics  and  useful  qualities  has 
been  made  possible  through  that  mysterious 
power  of  indefinite  variation  which  the  hen 
possesses.  Fanciers  by  employing  this  power, 
by  carefully  studying  to  preserve  every  bene- 
ficial and  to  avoid  every  injurious  variation, 
by  studying  to  mate  so  as  to  increase  desira- 
ble variations,  have  with  patient  and  perse- 
vering effort  molded  to  their  will  the  modern 
domestic  fowl. 

That  all  the  distinct  varieties  of  the  domestic 


of  the  Gallus  bankivus  are  closely  preserved 
among  its  domesticated  descendants  in  the 
black-breasted  red  game  fowl,  of  the  pit  or 
fighting  type.  In  size  the  wild  fowl  is  about 
midway  between  the  ordinary  pit  fowl  and 
the  game  Bantam. 

So  great  a  difference  in  appearance  and  so 
great  a  similarity  in  qualities  exist  among  the 
domesticated  descendants  of  the  Gallus  ban- 
kivus, that  any  classification  of  breeds  must  be 
considered  a  matter  rather  of  convenience  than 
of  scientific  exactness.  If  it  is  sought  to  divide 
the  varieties  into  two  classes,  the  useful  and  the 
ornamental,  such  classification  will  necessarily 
be  imperfect,  for  all  the  useful  varieties  are 


1  The  illustrations  in  this  article  are  from  photographs  of  birds  belonging  to  Thomas  W.  Ludlow,  Esq. 


47 


48 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE  AND  BEAUTY. 


more  or  less  ornamental,  and  all  the  ornamental 
varieties  are,  at  least  to  some  degree,  useful. 
Yet  such  a  classification  is  serviceable,  as  lead- 
ing to  a  more  comprehensive  grasp  of  the  sub- 
ject. The  first  class,  the  useful  chickens,  may 
be  subdivided  into  three  minor  classes,  the 
first  embracing  those  varieties  which  are  the 
most  prolific  layers ;  the  second,  those  which 
are  deemed  the  best  for  the  table;  and  the 
third,  those  which  combine  the  qualities  of 
the  two  former  divisions,  are  at  once  good  lay- 
ers and  good  as  table  poultry,  and  are  often 
designated  "  general  purpose  fowls."  The  first 
of  these  divisions  is  the  choice  of  those  whose 
primary  object  in  poultry -keeping  is  the  pro- 
duction of  eggs  for  market;  the  second,  of 
those  who  desire  to  raise  the  finest  dressed 
poultry ;  and  the  third,  of  those  who  keep  fowls 
for  the  supply  of  their  own  tables.  In  the  orna- 
mental class  are  included  those  breeds  which 
are  admired  for  the  symmetry  of  their  forms,  the 
beauty  of  their  plumage,  or  the  oddity  of  their 
appearance.  The  most  prolific  layers  are  found 
among  the  Spanish  or  Mediterranean  breeds,  a 
group  of  fowls  possessing  in  common  (with  a 
single  exception  noted  below)  the  following 
characteristics  :  a  high  single  comb,  deeply 
serrated,  which  in  the  male  is  erect  and  in 
the  female  droops  to  one  side ;  long,  pendu- 
lous wattles  ;  white  ear-lobes  ;  a  full,  round 
breast,  carried  prominently  forward  ;  a  rather 
long  and  slender  body ;  a  full,  upright  tail,  which 
in  the  male  is  furnished  with  long,  flowing 
sickle-feathers;  and  a  nervous,  restless  dis- 
position, which  makes  them,  when  at  liberty,  ex- 
cellent foragers,  and  thus  economical  to  keep. 
Whether  these  characteristics  have  been  devel- 
oped by  careful  selection,  or  whether  they  are 
the  result  of  climate  and  surroundings,  is  not 
known.  There  are  traditions,  more  or  less 
misty,  that  the  monks  who  inhabited  the  an- 
cient monasteries  in  the  countries  bordering 
upon  the  Mediterranean  were  ardent  poultry- 
fanciers,  and  that  to  their  skillful  breeding  is 
due  the  uniformity  of  type  of  the  chickens  of 
this  region ;  but  the  foundations  for  such  tra- 
ditions are  at  best  uncertain.  It  is  more  proba- 
ble that  the  characteristics  in  question  result 
from  natural  causes  acting  through  long 
stretches  of  time ;  for  we  know  that  in  warm 
climates  there  is  always  a  tendency  to  increase 
in  the  size  of  combs  and  wattles,  and  to  a  pro- 
fuse plumage,  and  it  is  reasonable  to  suppose 
that  this  tendency,  operating  for  many  centu- 
ries, would  produce  spontaneously  most  of  the 
characteristics  of  the  Mediterranean  group. 
Nature  is  quite  as  skillful  and  original  a  breeder 
as  man ;  and  though  she  usually  works  more 
slowly,  she  produces  more  permanent  results. 
The  Mediterranean  group  includes  the 
White-faced  Black  Spanish,  the  Minorcas,  the 


Andalusian,  and  the  Leghorns.  The  White- 
faced  Black  Spanish  is  a  tall  fowl,  with  long, 
clean,  dark  legs,  a  plumage  of  intense  black, 
and  a  white  face,  covering  the  space  about  the 
eyes,  and  extending  down  the  sides  of  the  head 
for  a  considerable  distance,  giving  it  a  strange 
and  weird  look.  For  many  years  it  enjoyed 
the  distinction  not  only  of  being  a  very  prolific 
layer,  but  of  producing  the  largest  eggs  of  any 
recognized  variety  of  chicken.  Of  late,  owing 
to  the  efforts  of  fanciers  to  increase  the  size  and 
improve  the  quality  of  the  white  face, —  in 
which  they  have  been  remarkably  success- 
ful,—  the  useful  qualities  of  the  breed  have 
been  lost  sight  of,  and  its  economic  value  has 
steadily  declined.  Poultry-fanciers  have  a 
strong  leaning  towards  the  extreme  of  develop- 
ment; and  in  securing  that  they  sometimes 
forget  more  practical  qualities.  From  the 
Black  Spanish  have  from  time  to  time  come 
snow-white  specimens  ("  sports  "),  and  by  some 
breeders  these  have  been  preserved  as  the 
foundation  of  a  new  variety.  The  tendency 
of  black  plumage  to  become  transmuted  into 
white  is  a  familiar  but  little  understood  fact  in 
breeding.  White  sports  have  appeared  occa- 
sionally from  other  colors ;  but  such  sports  are 
generally  traceable  to  a  reversion,  and  point  to 
a  white  ancestor  not  many  generations  back. 
But  among  black  fowls,  whose  pedigree  has 
been  carefully  preserved  for  a  long  period  of 
time,  and  which  have  had  no  opportunity  for 
mixing  with  other  colors,  white  sports  are  more 
common  than  among  fowls  of  any  other  color. 
The  White  Spanish  have  never  attained  any 
great  popularity,  and  probably  never  will,  for 
the  startling  contrast  between  the  color  of  the 
face  and  that  of  the  plumage,  which  is  the  dis- 
tinguishing mark  of  the  black  variety,  is,  of 
course,  wanting  in  the  Whites. 

The  Minorcas,  of  which  there  are  two  vari- 
eties, the  Black  and  the  White,  in  general 
characteristics  closely  resemble  the  Spanish, 
and  indeed  were  known,  many  years  ago,  as 
Red-faced  Spanish.  They  differ  chiefly  in  hav- 
ing the  white  on  the  face  confined  to  the  ear-lobe, 
or  deaf  ear,  and  in  being  rather  shorter  in  leg 
and  heavier  in  body  than  the  Spanish.  This 
breed  has  but  recently  been  imported  into  the 
United  States,  though  it  has  long  been  highly 
prized  in  England  as  furnishing  great  layers. 

The  Andalusian  might  without  impropriety 
be  called  a  blue  Minorca.  Its  plumage  is  of  a 
slaty  blue, —  a  somewhat  rare  color  in  fowls, — 
each  feather  having  around  the  outer  edge  a 
delicate  lacing  of  a  darker  shade  of  blue,  some- 
times nearly  or  quite  black.  The  hackle  and 
saddle  feathers  are  usually  darker  than  the 
under  parts, —  in  the  cock  being  sometimes 
glossy  black, —  and  often  show  purple  reflec- 
tions in  the  sunlight. 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE   AND   BEAUTY. 


49 


SILVEK-SPANGLED    HAMBURG3. 


The  most  widespread  and  popular  breed  of 
chickens  in  the  Mediterranean  class  is  the  Leg- 
horn, so  named  from  the  Italian  port  from 
which  the  fowls  were  first  exported.  The  ear- 
liest importation  into  this  country  was  of  the 
Brown,  then  called  Red,  Leghorns,  by  Mr.  N. 
P.  Ward  of  New  York  City,  about  the  year 
1835.  The  chicks  bred  from  this  importation 
were  scattered  among  Mr.  Ward's  friends,  and 
soon  became  hopelessly  mixed  with  the  com- 
mon fowls  of  the  country.  In  1852  a  second 
importation  of  Brown  Leghorns  was  made,  the 
fowls  being  brought  to  Mystic,  Connecticut; 
and  during  the  next  year  a  third  importation 
came  to  the  same  place.  With  the  importations 
of  1852  and  1853  the  history  of  the  Leghorn 
in  the  United  States  really  begins.  It  was  not 
until  1858,  when  the  so-called  "  Lord  impor- 
tation," and  1863,  when  the  "  Stetson  birds  " 
arrived,  that  the  White  Leghorn  made  its  ap- 
pearance. The  chickens  of  the  Lord  impor- 
tation had,  it  is  said,  white  legs  like  White 
Minorcas,  and  it  is  possible  that  they  were 
Minorcas  and  not  Leghorns ;  but  the  Stetson 
birds  had  the  yellow  legs  and  the  trim  bodies 
which  are  now  recognized  as  characteristic  of 
the  Leghorn.  England,  though  she  has  con- 
tributed not  a  few  varieties  of  fowls  to  this 
country,  is  indebted  to  the  United  States  for 
Vol.  XL.— 7. 


the  Leghorn,  having  imported  the  White  vari- 
ety from  here  in  1870  and  the  Brown  two  years 
later.  The  Leghorn  breed  includes  six  vari- 
eties :  four  with  single  combs,  Brown,  White, 
Black,  and  Dominique  or  Cuckoo;  and  two 
with  rose-combs,  Brown  and  White.  The  rose- 
comb  is  an  anomaly  among  the  Mediterranean 
breeds,  and  many  have  held  it  to  be  evidence 
of  a  recent  cross.  There  is  little  doubt  that 
many  so-called  rose-combed  Leghorns  were 
produced  by  crossing  the  single-combed  Leg- 
horn with  the  Hamburg,  which  has  the  rose- 
comb,  but  there  is  unimpeachable  testimony 
that  rose-combed  chicks  appeared  among  the 
earliest  broods  from  imported  Leghorns. 
Whether  this  indicates  a  reversion  to  along-for- 
gotten cross  with  a  rose-combed  ancestor,  or 
whether  it  is  merely  a  noteworthy  instance  of 
variation,  we  cannot  determine ;  but  the  fact 
justifies  the  breeders  of  rose-combed  Leghorns 
in  asserting  the  purity  of  their  fowls.  The  Brown 
variety  is  of  the  typical  Game  or  Gallus  ban- 
kivus  coloring,  the  male  having  hackle  and  sad- 
dle of  a  brilliant  red  or  orange,  with  a  black 
stripe  through  the  middle  of  every  feather;  dark 
red  back;  black  breast,  body,  and  tail;  and  a 
glossy  black  bar  across  the  wings.  The  female  is 
of  abrown  hue  over  the  greater  part  of  the  body, 
thefeathersbeingfinely  penciled,  and  has  a  deep- 


5° 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE   AND   BEAUTY. 


JXN 


%AV'G^^Lii"ftti-.   ,s    ^  /^Ti^Tr^-^..-*".— tv-. 


SINGLE-COMBED     BROWN    AND     WHITE     LEGHORNS. 


salmon  breast.  The  White  and  Black  Leg- 
horns are  solid- colored  birds,  though  the  males 
of  the  Whites  have  a  tendency  to  show  a  yel- 
low tinge  upon  the  upper  parts  —  a  tendency 
which  is  found  in  all  white-plumaged  fowls 
having  yellow  legs  and  skin.  The  plumage  of 
the  Dominique  or  Cuckoo  Leghorn  looks,  at  a 
distance,  as  if  made  up  of  alternate  bars  of  two 
shades  of  blue ;  but  upon  examining  the  sepa- 
rate feathers  the  body  color  is  found  to  be  a  gray- 
ish white,  crossed  by  transverse  bars  of  black. 
The  rose- combed  varieties  differ  from  the  single- 
combed  only  in  the  character  of  the  combs. 

Ranking  next  or  even  superior  to  the 
Mediterranean  class  as  egg-producers  stands 
the  graceful  Hamburg  family.  The  Hamburg 
proves  the  impossibility  of  an  exact  classifica- 
tion of  chickens  upon  economic  grounds,  for  it 
is  not  only  one  of  the  most  useful  but  also  one 
of  the  most  ornamental  of  domestic  fowls. 
This  family  includes  two 
breeds :  the  Hamburg  with 
its  six  varieties,  Golden  and 
Silver-Spangled,  Golden 
and  Silver- Penciled,  Black 
and  White ;  and  the  Red- 
cap. The  Hamburg  family 
is  characterized  by  rose- 
combs,  slender,  clean-cut 
bodies,  and  well-developed 
tails.  It  has  masqueraded 
under  a  great  variety  of 
names,  such  as  Penciled 
Dutch,  Everlasting  Layers, 
Dutch  Everyday  Layers, 
Chitteprats,  Bolton  Grays, 
Creoles,  Corals,  Creels, 
Bolton  Bays,  Silver  Pheas- 
ants, Silver  Mooneys,  Silver 
Moss,  Golden  Pheasants, 
Golden  Mooneys,  Copper 
Moss,  and  the  like ;  but, 
under  whatever  name,  it 
has  always  won  a  host  of 


admirers.  The  Hamburgs 
have  an  authentic  history 
reaching  back  three  cen- 
turies, and  a  mythical  one 
that  connects  them  with  the 
"  Morning  Star  "  of  Eng- 
lish song.  Chaucer,  in 
"The  Nun's  Tale,"  de- 
scribes with  considerable 
detail  a  fowl  which  may 
have  been  a  Hamburg  : 

His    coomb  was    redder    than 

the  fyn  coral, 
And  batailled  as  it  were  a  castel 

wal  ; 
His  byle  was  blak,  and  as  the 
jeet  it  shoon  ; 
Lyk  asure  were  hise  legges  and  his  toon  ; 
Hise  nayles  whiter  than  the  lylye  flour, 
And  lyk  the  burned  gold  was  his  colour. 

Whether  this  description  should  be  applied 
to  the  Hamburg  or  to  a  game  fowl,  it  is  cer- 
tain that  the  celebrated  naturalist  Aldrovandi, 
who  wrote  in  Latin  some  three  hundred  years 
ago,  was  familiar  with  the  breed,  which  he 
describes  under  the  name  of  Gallina  turcica. 
"  The  cock  whose  likeness  we  give,"  he  says, 
"  is  called  the  Turkish  cock.  His  whole  body 
is  in  a  manner  inclined  to  white.  Still,  the 
wing  feathers  are  partly  black.  The  tail  con- 
sists of  feathers  that  are  partly  green,  partly 
black;  some,  also,  are  half  green,  some  half 
black.  His  whole  body  is  exquisitely  adorned 
with  lines  that  are  sometimes  golden,  some- 
times silver,  and  it  is  wonderful  how  beautiful 
an  effect  this  produces.  His  legs  and  feet  are 
tinged   with   blue.    The    hen,  which    also    is 


SINGLE-COMBED    BARRED     PLYMOUTH     ROCKS. 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE   AND   BEAUTY. 


51 


called  Turkish,  is  all  white,  sprinkled  over 
with  black  spots;  she  has  the  feet  tinged 
with  blue,  and  the  wattles  short  when  com- 
pared with  those  of  the  male.  Another  hen 
presents  the  same  appearance,  except  that  her 
neck  is  yellowish;  she  carries  a  sharp  point  on 
the  top  of  her  head,  her  feet  are  altogether 
blue,  and  her  tail  is  immaculate." 

Tested  by  the  standards  of  to-day,  this  de- 
scription is  somewhat  confused ;  yet  it  presents 
a  union  of  Hamburg  characteristics —  the  lines 
of  penciling,  the  spots  or  spangles,  the  silver 
or  golden  colors, 
the  blue  legs,  the  f 
projecting  spike  I 
or  point  of  the 
rose-comb. 

At  the  date  of 
our  author,  it  is 
hardly  to  be  ex- 
pected either  that 
descriptions  of 
fowls  should  be 
strictly  accurate, 
or  that  the  mod- 
ern varieties  of  a 
breed  of  chickens 
could  be  definitely 
differentiated;  but 
a  century  later 
both  results  had 
been  accom- 

plished. The  old 
breeders  in  Lan- 
cashire and  York- 
shire established  ex- 
hibitions of  their 
Hamburgs,  at  which 
they  competed  for  prizes 
consisting  of  copper  ket- 
tles and  other  useful  house 
hold  articles,  and  they  reduced 
the  points  of  excellence  to 
prized  in  their  fowls  to  a  carefully 
written  description,  thus  anticipating  the  poul- 
try-show and  the  "  Standard  of  Excellence  for 
Exhibition  Poultry  "  of  our  day. 

The  Penciled  Hamburgs  were  probably  per- 
fected in  Holland,  while  the  Spangled  varie- 
ties are  clearly  of  English  origin.  In  size  the 
Blacks  take  the  lead,  and  the  Penciled  are 
the  smallest.  Originally  the  Penciled  varieties 
were  of  a  somewhat  finer  build  than  the  others, 
but  since  all  have  been  brought  under  a  com- 
mon name,  and  thus  more  closely  associated 
with  one  another,  they  have  been  brought  to  a 
nearly  uniform  shape.  The  Penciled  varieties 
show  either  a  silvery- white  or  a  golden-bay 
ground-color,  both  varieties  being  similarly 
marked.  The  male  bird  is  nearly  uniform  in 
color   throughout,  except   the   tail,  which    is 


HOUDANS. 


black,  the  sickles  and  coverts  having  a  narrow 
edging  of  the  ground-color.  The  females  have 
the  neck  free  from  markings,  the  remainder  of 
the  plumage  being  penciled,  or  marked  trans- 
versely, with  narrow  black  lines  at  right  an- 
gles to  the  shaft  of  the  feather,  and  forming 
together  nearly  parallel  bars  about  the  body 
of  the  fowl.  In  the  Spangled  variety  the  male 
has  a  beautifully  spangled  breast,  a  slightly 
striped  hackle  and  saddle,  a  double  bar  across 
the  wings,  and  in  the  Golden  Hamburg  a 
black  tail,  while  the  Silver  cock  has  a  white 
tail  with  a  black  moon  or  spangle  at  the  end 
of  every  feather.  The  females  have  a  striped 
hackle  and  the  remainder  of  the  plumage 
handsomely  spangled.    The  White  and  Black 

Hamburgs  are  of 
a  pure,  solid  color, 
though  spangles 
are  marked  on  the 
Blacks  by  greater 
glossiness  of  the 
tips  of  the  feathers. 
The  Red-cap,  so 
called  from  the 
excessive  develop- 
ment of  its  comb, 
which  resembles  a 
red  cap,  and  is 
often  so  large  as 
to  hang  to  one  side 
in  a  manner  which 
for  a  fowl  is  not 
at  all  jaunty,  has 
long  been  a  favorite 
in  Derbyshire  and 
other  districts  of  Eng- 
land, although  it  is  one 
of  the  most  recent  ad- 
ditions to  American  poul- 
try-yards. Some  twenty  or 
twenty-five  years  ago  there  were 
importations  of  this  breed,  but,  like 
the  earliest  importations  of  the  Leg- 
horn, these  became  intermingled  with  other 
fowls,  and  soon  disappeared.  In  general  ap- 
pearance the  Red-cap  resembles  a  Golden 
Spangled  Hamburg  of  poor  color,  its  body- 
color  being  less  rich  and  its  markings  less 
regular.  It  is  probable  that  it  stands  to  the 
Golden  Spangled  Hamburg  in  the  relation- 
ship of  a  descendant  or  an  ancestor  —  more 
probably  the  latter.  It  is  considerably  larger 
than  the  Hamburg,  which  it  equals  in  the 
number  and  surpasses  in  the  size  of  its  eggs. 
Such  popularity  as  it  enjoys  has  been  won 
not  by  its  appearance,  but  by  its  excellent  rep- 
utation as  a  layer. 

Among  the  fowls  most  prized  for  their  table 
qualities  there  are  none  that  surpass  the  Dork- 
ing and  the  Indian —  or,  as  it  is  sometimes  called, 


52 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE  AND  BEAUTY. 


DARK     AND     LIGHT     BRAHMAS. 


the  Cornish  Indian — Game.  The  Dorking, 
whose  name  comes  from  the  old  market  town 
in  Surrey  where  great  numbers  of  this  fowl  are 
annually  reared,  has  been  for  generations  the 
model  of  all  that  is  desirable  in  a  table  fowl. 
A  volume  might  be  made  up  of  quotations  in 
praise  of  this  breed.  Mr.  Baily,  an  experienced 
London  poultry  judge,  says : 

There  is  no  breed  to  be  compared  with  the  Dork- 
ing, which  unites  in  itself,  more  than  any  other,  all 
the  properties  requisite  for  supplying  the  table.  .  .  . 
There  is  a  natural  tendency  in  the  breed  to  fatten, 
so  that  the  young  ones  are  made  to  attain  to  eight 
or  nine  pounds  weight,  and  at  table  they  surpass 
all  others  in  symmetry  of  shape  and  whiteness  and 
delicacy  of  flesh. 

The  editor  of  the  "  Agricultural  Gazette  " 
commended  Mr.  Baily  "  in  his  endeavor  to 
bring  us  back  to  Dorkings  and  common  sense." 
The  Rev.  E.  S.  Dixon,  in  speaking  of  the  ex- 
cellence of  this  breed,  said  : 

The  breeder  and  the  farmer's  wife  behold  with  de- 
light their  broad  breast,  the  small  proportion  of 
offal,  and  the  large  quantity  of  profitable  flesh.  The 
cockerels  may  be  brought  to  considerable  weights, 
and  the  flavor  and  appearance  of  the  meat  are  in- 
ferior to  none. 

The  Dorking  boasts  of  great  antiquity.  The 
Latin  writer    Columella    describes  a  fowl  to 


says,  "  be  of  reddish  or 
dark  plumage,  with 
black  wings.  .  .  .  Let 
the  breeding  hens  be 
of  robust  body,  square- 
built,  full-breasted,  with 
large  heads,  and  up- 
right and  bright-red 
combs.  .  .  .  Those 
bred  with  five  toes  are 
held  to  be  the  best." 
There  are,  however, 
skeptics,  of  the  ruth- 
less mold  of  those  who 
have  already  destroyed 
many  of  the  cherished 
illusions  of  our  younger 
days,  who  would  have 
us  believe  that  this  sup- 
posedly ancient  breed 
of  Dorkings  is  little 
more  than  a  century 
old,  and  that  it  origi- 
nated, not  in  Rome,  but 

in  England,  not  far  from  the  quiet  little  town 

which  gives  it  its  name. 

No  better  brief  description  of  this  fowl  has 

been  written  than  that  of  Mr.  Lewis  Wright, 

the  author  of  one  of  the  most  comprehensive 

books  on  poultry. 

The  body  should  be  deep  and  full,  the  breast  be- 
ing protuberant  and  plump,  especially  in  the  cock, 
whose  breast,  as  viewed  sideways,  ought  to  form  a 
right  angle  with  the  lower  part  of  his  body.  Both 
back  and  breast  must  be  broad,  the  latter  showing 
no  approach  to  hollowness,  and  the  entire  general 
make  full  and  plump,  but  neat  and  compact. 

There  are  four  varieties  of  the  Dorking: 
the  Colored,  which  is  the  largest,  the  Silver 
Gray,  the  Cuckoo,  and  the  White,  which  is  the 
smallest.  The  Colored  and  the  Silver  Gray 
bear  a  close  resemblance  to  each  other,  the 
chief  difference  being  that  the  latter  throughout 
is  lighter  in  plumage.  The  Colored  male  has 
a  white  hackle  and  saddle  striped  with  black, 
a  black-and-white  back,  a  black  breast,  body, 
and  tail,  and  a  wing  with  a  broad  black  bar. 
The  female  is  of  a  dark  reddish -brown  marked 
with  black,  and  has  a  deep  salmon  breast.  The 
Colored  variety  is  bred  with  either  single  or  rose 
combs,  the  Silver  Gray  with  single-combs  only, 
and  the  White  with  rose-combs  only.  The 
Cuckoos  are  barred  with  white-and-black  like 


which  the  admirers  of  this  breed  point  as  proof   the  Cuckoo  Leghorn.     All  varieties  have    a 


that  the  Dorking  antedates  English  civilization 
—  that  before  William  the  Conqueror  the 
Dorking  had  won  popularity,  and  that  along 
with  the  conquering  cohorts  of  Caesar  the 
equally  victorious  fowl  invaded  Britain.  Col- 
umella's description  will  certainly  pass  if  ap- 
plied to  this  famous  breed.    "  Let  them,"  he 


white  or  flesh-colored  leg,  and  five  toes  upon 
each  foot.  The  Indian  Game  is  with  us  a 
much  more  modern  breed,  having  come  into 
notice  in  America  only  within  the  last  two  or 
three  years,  though  it  has  been  extensively 
bred  in  England  for  a  longer  period.  The 
first  fowls  of  this  breed  were  imported  into  the 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE  AND   BEAUTY. 


53 


United  States  in  1887.    At  the  great  English  intense  black.    The  feathers  are  short,  hard, 

poultry  exhibitions,  the  Indian  Game,  whether  and  glossy,  and  in  the  sunlight  gleam  like  pre- 

bred  pure  or  crossed  upon  some  other  fowl,  cious  stones.    The  female  is  of  a  rich,  warm 

has  for  the  last  two  or  three  years  won  all,  or  brown    body-color,  beautifully  penciled  with 

nearly  all,  of  the  prizes  in  the  department  of  V-shaped  black   markings  that  appear  as  if 

dressed  poultry,  a  practical  department  which  embossed,  and  are  scarcely  less  iridescent  than 


BUFF    COCHINS. 


always  forms  one  of  the  chief  exhibits  in  for- 
eign poultry-shows.  It  has  the  requisites  of 
the  best  table-fowl  —  size,  reaching  the  weight 
of  nine  or  ten  pounds;  a  thin,  delicate  skin;  a 
plump,  meaty  carcass;  great  breast  develop- 
ment ;  and,  what  is  of  prime  importance  to  the 
American  poultryman,  shanks  of  a  rich  yellow 
color.  It  may  seem  ridiculous  that  the  color 
of  the  legs  should  affect  the  sale  of  dressed 
poultry ;  but  the  mind  of  the  American  house- 
wife is  wedded  to  the  yellow  shank,  and  for 
some  inscrutable  reason  she  regards  it  as  evi- 
dence of  superior  quality  of  flesh.  The  Indian 
Game  is  not  only  a  thoroughly  practical  but 
also  a  very  beautiful  fowl.  It  is  graceful  in 
shape,  having  a  symmetrical  body  supported 
by  stout  legs,  a  finely  carried  neck,  and  a  some- 
what drooping  tail.  The  male  has  a  black 
hackle,  every  feather  having  a  crimson  shaft;  a 
crimson-and-black  back  and  saddle;  a  hand- 
some wing,  with  black  bar  and  chestnut  wing- 
bay;  and  the  remainder  of  the  plumage  of  an 


the  plumage  of  the  male.  A  flock  of  hens  of 
this  breed  might  be  mistaken  at  a  distance  for 
a  covey  of  English  pheasants,  the  plumage 
being  very  similar. 

Among  the  table-fowls  are  also  to  be  classed 
the  French  breeds:  the  crested  and  bearded 
Houdan,  with  its  mottled  plumage  of  black 
and  white ;  the  large,  somber  Crevecceur,  with 
its  solid  black  garments;  and  the  La  Fleche, 
with  its  antlered  comb — "a  long,  weird,  hob- 
goblin-looking bird,"  a  veritable  nightmare 
among  fowls.  In  their  native  land  these  three 
breeds  enjoy  an  immense  popularity  ;  in  this 
country  such  claim  can  be  made  for  the  Hou- 
dan alone,  this  fowl  being  hardy,  well  formed, 
an  excellent  layer  of  remarkably  large  white 
eggs,  and  very  quaint  in  appearance  from  the 
large  size  of  its  crest  and  muff  of  feathers.  At 
one  time  the  Crevecceurs  had  a  little  popular- 
ity; but  owing  to  their  slow  growth,  at  least  in 
America,  this  has  gradually  approached  the 
vanishing  point,  and  until  recent  importations 


54 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE  AND   BEAUTY. 


we  have  had  no  La  Fleche  fowls  worthy  of 
the  name.  There  are  now  a  few  in  the  coun- 
try which,  if  the  climate  proves  suitable  for 
their  best  development,  may  form  a  valuable 
addition  to  the  table  poultry  of  the  United 
States.  Among  the  "  general  purpose  "  fowls, 
the  varieties  belonging  to  the  American  and 
Asiatic  classes  take  first  rank.  Their  combi- 
nation of  practical  qualities  assures  them  the 
favor  of  poultrymen  and  farmers.  The  Ameri- 
can does  not  despise  beauty,  but  he  worships 
utility.  A  chicken  that  is  good  for  laying  and 
also  good  to  eat  is  his  ideal ;  and  in  these  two 
classes  he  finds  such  chickens.  An  examina- 
tion of  the  records  of  the  various  poultry  ex- 
hibitions, of  the  advertisements  of  poultry- 
breeders  in  their  special  publications,  and  of 
the  poultry-yards  in  almost  any  locality,  will 
convince  any  one  that  it  is  within  the  bounds 
of  truth  to  say  that  there  are  more  chickens 
belonging  to  these  two  classes  bred  in  the  United 
States  than  of  all  the  other  classes  together. 

The  American  class  includes  five  acknow- 
ledged breeds  and  twelve  varieties:  the  Ply- 
mouth Rock,  with  its  single-combed  Barred, 
pea-combed  Barred,  and  White  varieties ;  the 
Wyandottes,  Silver,  Golden,  White,  and  Black ; 
the  Javas,  Black,  Mottled,  and  White;  the 
American  Dominique;  and  the  Jersey  Blue.  Of 
these  breeds  the  Plymouth  Rock  is  perhaps 
the  most  popular,  though  this  rank  is  closely 
contested  by  the  Wyandotte.  The  origi- 
nal Plymouth  Rock  was  the  variety  now  called 
the  Barred,  and  was  bred  with  a  single  comb. 
It  originated  in  a  cross  of  a  Dominique  male 
and  Black  Java  females,  though  to  increase 
size  and  improve  color  other  crosses  were  sub- 
sequently used.  It  was  at  first  hailed  with  de- 
rision, designated  as  "  the  great  American 
Mongrel,"  and  furiously  opposed  by  those 
whose  pecuniary  interests  lay  in  other  breeds ; 
but  it  steadily  advanced  in  favor,  and  soon  com- 
pelled even  its  opponents  to  accept  it.  No  other 
new  breed  of  chickens  has  ever  won  and  main- 
tained through  a  long  course  of  years  so  great 
and  so  constantly  increasing  popularity.  From 
this  fowl  the  pea-combed  variety  appeared  as 
a  sport,  and  a  few  breeders,  recognizing  the 
advantage  of  the  small,  low  triple  comb,  es- 
pecially for  those  sections  of  the  country  where 
the  winter  weather  hugs  the  zero  point  for  a 
considerable  period,  made  use  of  this  variation 
to  establish  a  new  variety.  Similarly  the  White 
variety  was  an  offshoot  from  the  original  stock. 

The  original  Wyandotte  is  the  variety  now 
distinguished  as  the  Silver,  a  compact,  well- 
made  fowl,  having  a  rose-comb  and  plumage 
of  a  white  ground  heavily  laced  with  black. 
It  is  a  cross-bred  fowl,  as  is  abundantly  shown 
by  the  uncertainty  of  breeding  of  the  earlier 
specimens,  and  by  the  wide  variation  even  now 


in  the  color  of  young  chicks ;  but  who  made 
the  original  crosses,  or  what  they  were,  no  man 
can  say  with  certainty.  Yet  the  breeds  that  en- 
ter into  the  make-up  of  the  Wyandotte  can  be 
guessed  at,  and  a  skillful  breeder  could  repro- 
duce a  type  of  fowl  like  the  Wyandotte  if  it 
should  suddenly  be  destroyed.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  the  Dark  Brahma  and  the  Silver 
Spangled  Hamburg,  and  very  possibly  the  Sil- 
ver Sebright  Bantam,  have  contributed  to  the 
composition  of  this  useful  breed.  From  the  Sil- 
ver Wyandotte  came  as  sports,  and  at  least  in 
some  strains  as  the  result  of  crossing,  the  White 
and  the  Black  varieties.  The  Golden  Wyan- 
dotte, which  is  the  counterpart  of  the  Silver, with 
a  rich  yellow  or  golden  bay  body-color  in  place 
of  the  white,  is  confessedly  a  cross-breed,  having 
been  produced  from  a  union  of  the  Silver  Wy- 
andotte and  the  "  Winnebago,"  a  fowl  of  the 
black-red  Game  type  of  plumage.  Crosses  also 
of  the  Golden  Spangled  and  Golden  Penciled 
Hamburg,  and  of  the  Partridge  Cochin,  with 
the  Silver  Wyandotte,  have  been  used  to  pro- 
duce Golden  Wyandottes. 

In  the  Java  breed  the  Black  was  the  origi- 
nal variety.  This  color,  in  the  modern  Java, 
has  been  obtained  in  certainly  two,  and  per- 
haps in  more,  ways.  In  some  instances  it  marks 
the  direct  descendant  of  the  old-fashioned 
Black  Java,  the  fowl  that  entered  into  the 
making  of  the  Plymouth  Rock ;  while  in  other 
cases  it  has  undoubtedly  come  from  the  black 
chicks  which  were  at  first  common  among 
broods  of  Plymouth  Rocks.  The  Mottled  Java 
was  bred  from  a  Black  Java  cock  and  a  white 
hen  of  no  known  breed,  but  which  possessed  the 
general  characteristics  of  the  Java.  From  both 
the  Black  and  the  Mottled  Javas  the  white  vari- 
ety has  been  obtained.  The  Java  differs  from  its 
near  relative,  the  Plymouth  Rock,  chiefly  in 
being  longer  in  body  and  having  in  the  males 
a  more  fully  developed  tail.  At  present  it  is 
required  by  the  Standard  to  have  a  willow  leg 
instead  of  the  yellow  leg  which  is  characteris- 
tic of  the  Plymouth  Rock.  The  Dominique  is 
one  of  the  oldest  of  American  varieties,  and 
is,  in  an  improved  form,  the  old  "  hawk-col- 
ored "  fowl  that  used  to  be  largely  kept  by 
New  England  farmers.  As  now  bred,  its 
plumage  resembles  that  of  the  Plymouth  Rock; 
it  has  a  well-developed  rose-comb,  yellow  legs, 
and  is  about  a  pound  lighter  in  weight  than 
the  Plymouth  Rock.  The  Jersey  Blue,  al- 
though but  recently  recognized  as  a  worthy 
breed  by  the  American  Poultry  Association, 
which  establishes  the  Standard,  is  one  of  the 
oldest  in  the  American  class.  In  shape  it  is 
like  the  Plymouth  Rock,  though  its  neck  is 
somewhat  longer  and  less  arched  ;  in  color  it 
is  blue,  having  plumage  almost  identical  with 
that  of  the  Andalusian. 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE   AND   BEAUTY. 


55 


SILVER     (LACED)     WYANDOTTES. 


The  Asiatic  class  includes  the  Brahmas, 
Light  and  Dark ;  the  Cochins,  Buff,  Part- 
ridge, Black,  and  White;  and  the  Langshans, 
Black  and  White.  In  this  class  are  found 
the  heaviest  known  varieties  of  chickens, 
the  Light  Brahma  being  the  largest  of  all. 
Fowls  weighing  twelve  or  thirteen  pounds 
are  common,  while,  in  exceptional  cases, 
fourteen  or  fifteen  pounds,  and  even  greater 
weights,  have  been  obtained.  The  origin 
of  the  Light  Brahma  has  provoked  a  wordy 
war  of  an  international  character,  Mr.  George 
P.  Burnham  of  Melrose,  Massachusetts, — 
who,  by  the  way,  at  one  time  presented  to 
Queen  Victoria  a  coop  of  these  fowls,  which 
her  Majesty  graciously  acknowledged  by  the 
gift  of  her  portrait, —  and  Mr.  Lewis  Wright 
of  London,  taking  the  most  prominent  part  in 


the  controversy.  A  ridiculous  mouse  was  born 
from  the  labor  of  these  mountains  ;  for  the  facts 
concerning  the  origin  of  the  Light  Brahma  were 
carefully  collected  and  sifted,  not  by  the  contro- 
versialists, but  by  Mr.  H.  H.  Stoddard  of  Hart- 
ford, Connecticut.  The  Light  Brahma  was 
found  to  be  descended  from  some  fowls  brought 
to  New  York,  and  from  thence,  in  1847,  to  Hart- 
ford, by  Mr.  Charles  Knox;  in  1848  they  were 
bred  in  Hartford  by  Mr.  Nelson  Chamber- 
lain; they  were  first  exhibited  in  1851  at  the 
hall  of  the  Fitchburg  Railroad  Station,  Boston, 
by  Mr.  Samuel  ().  Hatch  of  Franklin,  Massa- 
chusetts; and  the  first  ever  seen  in  England 
were  sent  from  America  in  the  fall  of  1852, 
having  been  selected  by  Mr.  C.  C.  Plaisted 
from  a  stock  owned  by  Dr.  John  C.  Bennett. 
The  original  specimens  were  believed  to  have 


56 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE  AND  BEAUTY. 


RED     PYLE     AN1J     SILVER     DUCK-WING     EXHIBITION     GAMES. 


come  from  some  Asiatic  port,  but  what  port 
is  not  known.  From  what  seem  to  the  writer 
reliable  data,  he  does  not  hesitate  to  state,  as  his 
opinion,  that  the  whole  Asiatic  family  is  of 
Chinese  origin.  That  some  of  the  present 
family  have  come  directly  from  China  is  known, 
and  the  whole  family  possesses  in  common 
many  distinct  characteristics,  as  large  size, 
profuse  feathering  upon  the  bodies,  abun- 
dance of  fluff,  feathering  upon  the  shanks  and 
toes,  and  a  quiet  and  contented,  or  somewhat 
sluggish,  disposition.  All  lay  large  eggs  of  vari- 
ous shades  of  brown. 

The  Brahmas  are  distinguished  from  the 
other  Asiatic  breeds  by  having  a  pea-comb  and 
a  somewhat  less  compact  build,  and  they  are 
in  general  better  layers  and  foragers  than  the 
Cochins.  The  Light  Brahma  is  mainly  white 
in  color,  the  neck  and  saddle  of  the  male  hav- 
ing a  heavy  black  stripe  in  each  feather,  and 
the  tail  and  the  wing  feathers  being  in  part 
black.  The  female  has  the  same  markings,  with 
the  exception  of  the  black  stripe  on  the  saddle- 
feathers  ;  but  in  her  the  black  is  less  promi- 
nent. The  Dark  Brahma  in  shape  and  size  is 
intermediate  between  the  Light  Brahma  and 
the  Cochins,  partaking  of  the  characteristics 
of  both.  This  is  not  strange,  for  the  Partridge 
Cochin  was  employed  as  a  cross  to  perfect  the 
beautiful  pencilings  in  the  plumage  of  the  Dark 
Brahma  female.  The  Dark  Brahma,  in  spite 
of  its  beauty,  is  a  less  popular  variety  in  the 
United  States  than  the  Light  Brahma  —  per- 
haps from  the  great  skill  in  breeding  required 
to  produce  it  in  perfection.  The  male,  with  his 


silver  hackle  striped  with  black,  his  solid  black 
breast,  and  his  handsomely  barred  "  duck- 
wings,"  is  certainly  a  handsome  fowl ;  but 
the  steel-gray  robe  of  the  female  is  even  more  to 
be  admired  for  the  chaste  but  exquisite  mark- 
ing of  every  feather.  The  Cochins  are  the 
shortest  in  neck,  shortest  in  body,  shortest  in 
tail,  and  shortest  in  limb  of  any  chickens  in  pro- 
portion to  their  size.  The  plumage  is  long  and 
soft;  the  fluff  abundant,  giving  a  very  broad 
appearance  to  the  rear;  and  the  feathers  of  the 
back,  especially  of  the  hen,  rise  in  a  concave 
mass  and  nearly  bury  the  tail  from  sight.  The 
Buff  variety  is  the  most  "  Cochin  of  the  Co- 
chins," and  has  a  rich  golden  color  throughout, 
usually  deeper  in  the  male  than  in  the  female. 
The  Partridge  Cochin  is  of  the  typical  black- 
red  or  Gallns  baiikivus  coloring,  the  male 
having  red  as  the  prevalent  color  on  his  upper 
parts  and  black  on  the  under  parts.  The  Par- 
tridge female  is  of  a  rich  brown  heavily  pen- 
ciled with  a  darker  brown  or  black,  the  pen- 
cilings following  concentrically  the  outline  of 
the  feather.  The  White  and  Black  Cochins 
are  fluffy  masses  of  their  respective  colors.  The 
Langshan,  the  smallest  member  of  the  Asiatic 
family,  long  held  to  be  merely  a  Black  Cochin, 
but  now  recognized  as  a  distinct  breed,  has 
been  bred  to  three  distinct  types,  besides  nu- 
merous intermediate  gradations.  At  first  the 
Cochin  type  appeared,  and  lent  force  to  the 
arguments  of  those  who  contended  for  the 
identity  of  Langshan  and  Cochin ;  then  came 
a  high-tailed,  long-legged,  slack-breasted  type ; 
and  finally,  what  is  recognized  abroad,   and 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE   AND   BEAUTY. 


57 


probably  will  be  here,  as  the  true  type,  a  fowl 
having  a  symmetry  approaching  that  of  the 
Hamburg,  and  thus  longer  and  more  slender 
of  body  than  the  other  Asiatics.  The  Lang- 
shan  has  longer  wings,  better  powers  of  flight, 
greater  pugnacity,  a  more  restless  disposition, 
and  is  a  better  forager  than  any  other  of  the 
Asiatics.  Like  other  black  breeds,  it  occasion- 
ally produces  a  white  chicken,  and  White 
Langshans  have  recently  been  seen  at  some 
Eastern  poultry  exhibitions,  and  announced  as 
well  on  the  Pacific  coast  as  imported  direct 
from  the  Langshan  ("  Wolf  Mountain")  re- 
gion of  China.  The  Asiatic  family,  being  very 
warmly  feathered,  are  generally  the  best  lay- 
ers we  have  in  the  colder  months  of  the  year, 
and,  if  killed  at  the  proper  age,  make  fairly 
good  table-poultry.  The  Langshan,  while  ob- 
jectionable to  Americans  as  a  market  fowl  on 
account  of  the  dark  color  of  its  plumage  and 
legs,  is  exceptionally  good  eating,  the  flesh  be- 
ing of  about  the  same  quality  as  that  of  the 
Houdan. 

Among  the  more  distinctly  ornamental  fowls 


though  no  variety  reproduces  itself  with  greater 
fidelity  than  the  Games,  the  finest  of  them  have 
been  produced  by  but  very  few  men,  and  even 
by  them  only  at  infrequent  intervals.  The  ear- 
lier history  of  the  Game  fowl  is  a  history  of  the 
cock-pit,  once  a  favorite  resort  of  royalty  and 
nobility,  and  even  supported  at  public  expense 
by  the  states  of  ancient  Greece  for  the  lessons 
of  courage  and  endurance  it  was  believed  to 
offer,  but  now  justly  under  the  ban  of  the  law  ; 
and  this  history  is  interesting  to  the  fancier  of 
Exhibition  Games  only  as  the  record  of  the 
ancestral  stock  from  which  his  favorites  spring. 
The  times  have  passed  when  monarchs  and 
bishops  associated  with  "broken-nosed  Bobs," 
and  when  assemblages  from  the  most  diverse 
ranks  and  orders  of  society  were  entertained 
by  such  songs  as — 

The  main  is  fought  and  passed, 
And  the  pit  is  empty  now  — 

Some  cocks  have  crowed  their  last, 
While  some  more  loudly  crow, 

From  the  shock ! 

In  the  world  the  same  we  see, 


BLACK-BREASTED    red    exhibition    games. 


there  is  no  breed  that  possesses  more  ad- 
mirers, and  upon  which  more  thought,  time, 
and  money  have  been  lavished,  than  the 
Games.  Hundreds  of  dollars  have,  time 
and  again,  been  paid  for  a  single  remarkably 
perfect  specimen,  and  it  is  not  certain  but  that 
it  is  cheaper  to  buy  such  a  specimen,  even  at  the 
extravagant  price,  than  to  undertake  to  obtain 
one  like  it  by  the  slow  process  of  breeding ;  for, 
Vol.  XL.— 8. 


Where'er  our  wanderings  be, 
So  here  's  a  health  to  thee,  jolly  cock! 

And  with  these  times  has  waned  the  re- 
nown of  the  fowl  to  which  the  poet  attrib- 
uted the 

Spirit  that  can  dare 
The  deadliest  form  that  death  can  take, 
And  dare  it  for  the  daring's  sake. 


5§ 


CHICKENS   FOR    USE   AND   BEAUTY. 


The  Pit  Game,  it  is  true,  survives,  and  in 
some  parts  of  this  country,  especially  in  the 
South,  is  extensively  bred,  but  in  the  pens 
of  English  and  American  fanciers  it  has  been 
displaced  by  a  fowl  more  elegant  in  shape, 
more  brilliant  in  coloring,  and  more  accurate 
in  marking.  The  Exhibition  Game  differs 
greatly  from  the  Pit  fowl.  The  latter  is  com- 
paratively short  in  leg,  with  a  full,  flowing  tail 
and  an  abundant  hackle.  The  Exhibition  bird 
is  tall,  slender,  very  erect  in  carriage,  with  very 
short,  hard,  and  glistening  plumage,  and  a  small, 
close  tail,  carried  low.    Length  of  leg  and  neck 


back  is  naming  orange ;  the  breast  is  blacky 
with  a  brownish-red  shaft  and  a  narrow  golden 
margin  or  lacing  to  the  feathers.  The  female 
has  a  lemon-colored  hackle,  darkly  striped, 
and  is  almost  black  in  the  remainder  of  the 
plumage,  the  best  specimens  having  the  breast 
lightly  but  distinctly  laced  with  gold. 

The  Red  Pyle  Game  cock  has  an  orange-red 
head  and  hackle,  crimson  back,  white  breast, 
somewhat  marked  with  chestnut,  crimson 
wings,  with  a  white  transverse  bar,  and  a  white 
tail ;  the  hen  has  an  orange-red  head,  a  white 
hackle  laced  with  gold,  a  dark  salmon  breast,, 


WHITE-CRESTED    BLACK     POLISH. 


are  characteristics  much  sought.  Hackle  and 
saddle  feathers  must  be  very  short  and  close. 
The  Black-breasted  Red  Game  is  at  once 
the  most  popular  and  the  most  typical  variety. 
It  has  reached  the  highest  development  of 
form,  and  possesses  the  richest  combination  of 
colors.  The  hackle  of  the  male  looks  almost 
like  spun  silk  of  an  orange  or  light-red  hue,#  the 
back  is  of  a  rich  red,  the  breast  is  jet  black, 
and  the  wings  are  dark  red,  traversed  by  an 
iridescent  bar  of  black.  The  female  is  mainly  of 
a  somewhat  grayish-brown  hue,  with  a  salmon 
breast.  The  Brown  Red  Game  presents  in 
coloring  a  glittering  combination  of  black  and 
gold.  The  hackle  of  the  male  is  red,  shading 
to  lemon,  and  striped  lightly  with  black;  the 


white  wings  slightly  marked  with  chestnut,  and 
a  white  tail. 

The  Duck-wing  Games,  so  named  because 
the  metallic  blue-black  bar  across  the  wing 
rivals  in  beauty  that  upon  the  wing  of  the 
Mallard  drake,  are  of  two  varieties,  the  Silver 
and  the  Golden.  The  females  are  much  alike, 
except  that  the  Silver  is  somewhat  the  lighter  in 
shade.  The  Silver  male  has  a  silvery  hackle, 
saddle,  and  back,  a  glossy  black  breast,  a  sil- 
very wing,  with  its  distinctive  blue-black  bar, 
and  a  black  tail.  The  Golden  male  is  like  the 
Silver  in  the  arrangement  of  color,  but  the 
silvery  white  gives  place  to  a  light  yellow  or 
straw  color  upon  the  neck  and  saddle,  and  to  a 
rich  copper  hue  upon  the  back  and  wing-bows. 


CHICKENS  FOR    USE   AND   BEAUTY. 


59 


'r 

,-v    ■;■■■>>  ',.'.■■ 

v...-  v      "   ;  •  -  •.■.■  -  ... 

BLACK-TAILED    WHITE    JAPANESE    BANTAMS. 


The  Duck-wing  Games  are  among  the  most 
beautiful  of  domestic  fowls,  but  in  America 
they  have  never  been  brought  to  the  perfection 
of  form  attained  by  the  Black-breasted  Red 
variety.  In  this,  English  fanciers  are  consider- 
ably in  advance  of  us. 

The  Black  and  the  White  Games  complete 
the  list  of  American  varieties  of  this  breed; 
though  in  England  other  varieties  also  are 
cultivated,  as  the  Wheatens  and  Ginger-Reds. 

The  Black  Sumatra  is  a  fowl  of  lower  station 
than  the  Game,  having  a  low  "strawberry" 
comb,  and  full,  soft  plumage.  The  tail  is  very 
long  and  sweeping,  and  the  plumage  through- 
out is  brilliantly  iridescent.  The  cock  often 
displays,  like  some  pheasants,  two  or  three  spurs 
upon  each  leg. 

The  Black-breasted  Red  Malay,  also  asso- 
ciated with  the  Game  family,  and  in  its  color- 
scheme  approaching  a  very  dark  Black- 
breasted  Red  Game,  is  a  tall,  heavy,  stilted- 

1  The  Malay  differs  from  the  Indian  Game,  as  now 
exhibited,  in  little  but  the  beautiful  penciling  of  the 
feathers  of  the  Indian  hen  in  concentric  lines  of  glossy 
black  on  a  cinnamon  ground,  which  penciling  often 
appears  on  the  breast  of  the  cock  also,  and  in  the  triple 
or  pea  comb  of  the  Indian  Game,  often  large  in  the 
male,  as  opposed  to  the  flat  or  strawberry  comb  of  the 
Malay.     The   Malay  cock   always   shows  solid  black 


looking  fowl,  with  overhanging  eyebrows, 
which  give  it  a  ferocious  expression,  and  do 
not  belie  its  disposition.1 

Among  the  most  peculiar  fowls  related  to 
the  Games  are  the  Japanese  Long-tailed  breeds 
known  as  the  Shinotawaro  or  Phoenix,  and 
the  Yokohama  fowls,  the  former  being  colored, 
the  latter  white.  The  peculiarity  of  these  fowls 
is  the  remarkable  length  attained  by  the  tail- 
feathers.  In  the  museum  at  Tokio  there  is  a 
specimen,  the  longest  tail-feathers  of  which, 
twenty  in  number,  have  the  astonishing  length 
of  thirteen  and  a  half  feet.  The  length  and 
luxuriance  of  the  tail  increases  at  every  suc- 
ceeding annual  moult,  and  does  not  reach  its 
fullest  development  until  the  bird  is  four  years 
old.  At  four  months  old  the  tail  often  meas- 
ures ten  to  twelve  inches,  and  at  a  year  old 
about  two  feet  or  two  feet  and  a  half. 

Among  the  most  universally  admired  of 
ornamental  fowls  are  the  Polish,  with  their  rose- 
breast,  and  the  hen,  though  the  latest  Standard  favors  an 
almost  uniform  cinnamon  or  chocolate  color,  often  has 
the  plumage  heavily  laced  with  glossy  green-black  with 
brown  centers,  but  never  penciled  like  that  of  her 
Indian  relative.  A  superficial  observer  would  be  apt 
to  confound  the  two  breeds,  though  the  votaries  of  the 
Indian  Game,  at  least,  contend  for  their  absolute  dis- 
tinctness. —  Editor. 


6o 


SINCE  AMY  DIED. 


like  crests  and  dependent  beards,  their  grace- 
ful figures  and  harmonious  colors.  Whether 
we  prefer  the  Golden  variety  with  its  rich 
body-color  and  its  spangles  of  black,  the  Silver 
with  its  effective  lacing  of  black  and  silver,  the 
Buff-laced  with  its  soft  lines  of  buff  and  white, 
the  White-crested  Black  (beardless)  with  its 
glossy  black  body  and  the  striking  contrast  of 
its  white  crest,  or  the  White  with  its  snowy 
plumage,  there  is  about  the  fowl  enough  of 
beauty  to  awaken  a  lively  interest.  At  an  ex- 
hibition no  display  attracts  more  attention  or 
admiration  than  that  of  the  Polish.  And  it  is, 
withal,  one  of  the  best  laying  fowls  in  our  list, 
while  the  supposed  difficulty  in  rearing  the 
young  chicks  has  been  much  exaggerated. 

An  account  of  ornamental  poultry  can- 
not omit  those  Lilliputians  of  the  poultry- 
yard,  the  pets  of  the  children  and  the  delight 
of  the  true  fancier,  the  beautiful  and  conse- 
quential Bantams.  Diminutive  size,  proud  car- 
riage, absolute  fearlessness,  are 
the  common  characteristics, 
while  in  figure  and  color  they 
vary  as  the  larger  fowls.  In  the 
limits  of  a  paragraph  it  is  im- 
possible to  do  more  than  to 
enumerate  some  of  the  varieties. 
The  Game  Bantams  are,  except 
in  size,  an  almost  exact  repro- 
duction of  the  Game  fowls ;  the 
Pekin  Bantams  are  diminu- 
tive Cochins,  with  the  same 
blocky  figure  and  profuse 
feathering  as  the  prototype, 
and  in  color  are  a  rich  golden 
buff,  pure  white,  shining  black, 
or  partridge-marked,  as  the 
case  may  be  •     the    Sebrights, 


Golden  and  Silver,  differing  only  in  the  ground- 
color, have  feathers  exquisitely  laced  with 
black,  rose-combs,  blue  legs,  and  enjoy  the 
distinction,  accorded  to  no  other  Bantam,  of 
having  had  exhibitions  devoted  solely  to  them- 
selves; the  Rose-combed  Blacks  and  Whites 
are  diminutive  Hamburgs;  the  Polish  are 
similar  to  their  larger  originals ;  the  Booted 
have  very  long  feathers  upon  shanks  and  toes, 
sometimes  measuring  nine  inches  in  length, 
and  are  either  solid  black  or  white  in  color; 
the  Japanese, —  Black-tailed  White,  pure 
White,  and  Colored, —  with  short  legs,  high 
single  combs,  trailing  wings,  and  large, 
erectly  carried  tail,  are  strikingly  peculiar 
in  appearance  —  a  characteristic  production 
of  their  most  original  and  picturesque 
country.  Such  are  some  of  the  better 
known  Bantams,  but  this  list  is  very  in- 
complete. Not  to  mention  the  old  varieties, 
Nankin,  Spangled,  Partridge,  Silk,  and 
Jumper,  now  forgotten,  though 
some  of  them  may  yet  win 
their  way  again  into  favor, 
there  are  many  new  breeds 
already  perfected  or  far  on  the 
way  to  perfection,  among  them 
the  Malay,  with  its  stilted 
legs,  the  massive  Brahmas,  and 
the  Spangled  Hamburgs.  The 
time  is  not  far  distant,  if 
the  present  activity  in  pro- 
ducing new  varieties  of  Ban- 
tams continues,  when  for 
nearly  every  well-established 
variety  of  chickens  there 
will  be  a  Bantam  counter- 
part. 

H,  S.  Babcock. 


SINGE  AMY  DIED. 


THE  grass  is  just  as  green  to-day, 
And  just  as  clear  the  rivers  flow, 
As  when  my  darling  fled  away, 
A  year  ago. 

And  happy  birds  are  caroling 

As  sweetly  'neath  the  placid  skies ; 

And  just  as  fair  the  flowers  of  spring 
Salute  mine  eyes. 


And  peaceful  folk  in  all  the  earth, 
With  smiles  upon  their  faces  set, 

Show  that  this  life  of  loss  is  worth 
The  living  yet. 

And  it  is  well.      I  would  not  choose 
To  close  the  flowers,  or  shroud  the  sun, 

Because  my  lot  has  been  to  lose 
My  little  one. 


But  yet  —  alas  for  mine  and  me  !  — 

Though  naught  is  changed  on  any  side, 

Another  world  it  seems  to  be 
Since  Amy  died. 


Andrew  B.  Saxton. 


was  brave  young  Parson  Webster, 
His  father  a  parson  before  him, 
And  here  in  this  town  of  Temple 
The  people  used  to  adore  him ; 
And  the  minute-men  from  all  quarters 
That  morning  had  grounded  their  arms 
Round  the  meeting-house  on  the  hilltop, 
Looking  down  on  Temple  farms. 

Dear  to  the  Puritan  soldier 

The  food  which  his  meeting-house  offered, 

And  especially  dear  the  fine  manna 

Which  the  young  Temple  minister  proffered ; 

And  believe  as  he  might  in  his  firelock, 

His  bayonet,  or  his  sword, 

The  minute-man's  heart  was  hopeless 

If  not  filled  with  the  strength  of  the  Lord. 

The  minute-man  ever  and  always 

Waited  the  signal  of  warning, 

And  he  never  dreamed  in  the  evening 

Where  his  prayers  would  ascend  the  next  morning ; 

And  they  even  said  that  the  parson 

Undoubtedly  preached  his  best 

When  his  musket  stood  in  the  pulpit 

Ready  for  use  with  the  rest. 


61 


Sad  was  the  minister's  message, 
And  many  a  heart  beat  faster, 
And  many  a  soft  eye  glistened, 
Whenever  the  voice  of  the  pastor 
Dwelt  on  the  absent  dear  ones 
Who  had  followed  their  country's  call 
To  the  distant  camp,  or  the  battle, 
Or  the  frowning  fortress-wall. 

And  now  when  near  to  "  fifteenthly," 
And  the  urchins  thought  of  their  nuncheon, 
And  into  the  half-curtained  windows 
Hotter  and  hotter  the  sun  shone, 
And  the  redbreast  dozed  in  the  branches, 
And  the  crow  on  the  pine  tree's  top, 
And  the  squirrel  was  lost  in  his  musings, 
The  sermon  came  to  a  stop. 

For  sharp  on  the  turnpike  the  clatter 
Of  galloping  hoofs  resounded, 
And  the  granite  ring  of  the  roadway 
Louder  and  louder  sounded ; 
And  now  no  longer  the  redbreast 
Was  inclined  to  be  dull  that  day, 
And  now  no  longer  the  sexton 
Slept  in  his  usual  way. 

But  all  sprang  up  on  the  instant, 

And  the  widest  of  eyes  grew  wider 

While  on  towards  the  porch,  like  a  tempest, 

Came  sweeping  the  horse  and  its  rider; 

And  now  from  the  din  of  the  hoof-beats 

A  trumpet  voice  leapt  out, 

And,  tingling  to  its  rafters, 

The  church  was  alive  with  the  shout, — 


li 


"  Burgoyne  's  at  Ticonderoga  ; 

Would  you  have  the  old  fort  surrender  ?  " 

"  No,  no !  "  cried  the  parson ;  "  New  Hampshire 

Will  send  the  last  man  to  defend  her !  " 

But  before  he  could  shoulder  his  musket 

A  Tory  sang  up  from  below, 

"  I  hear  a  great  voice  out  of  heaven,  sir, 

Warning  us  not  to  go." 

Quick  from  the  pulpit  descending, 
With  the  agile  step  of  a  lion, — 
"  The  voice  you  hear  is  from  hell,  sir  !  " 
Replied  the  young  servant  of  Zion. 
And  out  through  the  open  doorway, 
And  on  past  the  porch  he  strode, 
And  the  congregation  came  after, 
And  gathered  beside  the  road. 

Sadly  enough  the  colonel, 
The  minute-men  all  arraying, 
From  the  dusty  cocked  hat  of  the  rider 
Drew  the  lots  for  going  or  staying. 
62 


'no,  no  !' cried  the  parson;  'new  Hampshire 
will  send  the  last  man  to  defend  her  )'  " 


63 


Then  waving  his  hat  as  he  took  it, 
And  putting  the  spurs  to  his  mare, 
The  stranger  rode  off  to  New  Ipswich 
In  a  cheering  that  rent  the  air. 

Worse  than  the  shock  of  battle, 

Now  came  the  sad  leave-taking, 

And  to  mothers  and  maids  and  matrons 

The  deepest  of  grief  and  heart-aching ; 

And  far  on  the  road  through  the  mountains 

Whence  the  rider  had  just  come, 

They  followed  the  minute-men  marching 

To  the  sound  of  the  fife  and  the  drum. 

Long  dead  have  they  been  who  sat  there 
At  that  feast  of  things  eternal  — 
Long  dead  the  laymen,  the  deacons, 
The  lawyer,  the  doctor,  the  colonel ; 
Long  dead  the  youths  and  the  maidens, 
And  long  on  the  graves  of  all 
Have  the  summers  and  the  winters 
Their  leaves  and  their  snows  let  fall. 

But  whenever  I  come  to  the  churchyard, 
Where,  by  the  side  of  the  pastor, 
They  afterwards  laid  the  colonel, 
His  friend  in  success  and  disaster, 
I  see  again  on  the  common 
The  minute-men  all  in  array, 
And  again  I  behold  the  departure, 
The  pastor  leading  the  way. 

And  I  think  of  the  scene  when  his  comrades 

Brought  back  the  young  pastor,  dying, 

To  his  home  in  the  house  of  the  colonel ; 

And  how,  on  his  death-bed  lying, 

He  took  the  hand  that  was  offered, 

And,  gazing  far  into  the  night, 

Whispered,  "  I  die  for  my  country — 

I  have  fought  —  I  have  fought  the  good  fight." 


Henry  Ames  Blood. 


BLACKED    OUT." 


EW  readers,  outside  of  Russia,    that,  inasmuch  as  delegates  from  all  the  Volga 
are  aware  of  the  extent  to  which*  River  zemstvos  have  assembled  here  to  discuss 


the  expression  of  opinion  and 
the  dissemination  of  intelligence 
in  that  great  Empire  are  ham- 
pered by  the  governmental  cen- 
sorship of  the  press.  Most  Americans,  probably, 
know  that  such  a  censorship  exists,  and  that  it 
acts  as  a  check  to  progressive  intellectual  ac- 
tivity in  general,  and  to  political  and  revolu- 
tionary activity  in  particular;  but  very  few 
have  had  an  opportunity  to  see  or  to  know  the 
full  extent  of  its  power  for  evil.  The  Russian 
censorship  acts  not  only  as  a  gag  to  prevent 
discussion  of  public  affairs,  but  as  a  bandage 
to  close  the  eyes  of  the  Russian  people  to  the 
real  nature  of  their  own  situation.  It  is  hardly 
an  exaggeration,  I  think,  to  say  that  an  Eng- 
lishman who  lives  in  London,  and  who  reads 
attentively  the  Russian  telegrams  and  corre- 
spondence in  the  "  News,"  "  Times,"  and 
"  Standard,"  has  a  clearer  and  more  accurate 
knowledge  of  a  whole  class  of  important  facts 
and  phenomena  in  Russian  political  life  than 
can  be  gained  by  a  citizen  of  St.  Petersburg 
from  a  careful  perusal  of  all  the  periodicals  in 
the  Empire.  The  reasons  for  this  extraordinary 
and  anomalous  state  of  things  may  be  found 
in  the  thick  volume  published  under  the  di- 
rection of  the  Russian  Minister  of  the  Interior, 
and  known  as  the  "  Press  Laws."  How  these 
laws  operate  to  prevent  not  only  the  discus- 
sion, but  even  the  mention,  of  certain  impor- 
tant public  questions  may  be  shown  by  an 
illustration  drawn  from  my  own  personal  ex- 
perience. 

In  the  month  of  June,  1886,  there  assembled 
in  the  old  Tartar  city  of  Kazan  a  quasi-repre- 
sentative body  of  Russian  citizens,  which  was 
half-humorously  designated  by  the  liberals  of 
the  town  as  the  "  Plague  Parliament."  It  con- 
sisted of  delegates  from  the  zemstvos,  or  local 
assemblies,  of  all  the  provinces  lying  adjacent 
to  the  river  Volga,  and  it  met  for  the  purpose 
of  discussing  the  then  prevalent  cattle  plague, 
and  taking  such  measures  as  might  be  found 
necessary  to  stamp  out  the  epidemic.  I  hap- 
pened at  the  time  io  be  in  Kazan,  and  on  the 
morning  appointed  for  the  opening  of  the 
u  Parliament "  I  was  in  my  room  discussing 
Russian  affairs  with  the  city  editor  of  one  of 
the  local  newspapers  and  a  professor  in  the 
Kazan  University. 

"  I  think,"  said  the  editor, "  that  I  will  go  back 
to  the  office  and  write  an  editorial  suggesting 
Vol.  XL. — 9-10. 


the  cattle  plague,  a  favorable  opportunity  is 
afforded  for  the  discussion  of  certain  other  im- 
portant questions  in  which  the  Volga  River 
provinces  are  interested." 

"  Do  you  know  what  will  happen  if  you 
attempt  anything  of  that  sort  ?  "  inquired  the 
professor. 

"  What  ?  "  said  the  editor,  laughing. 

"  Your  newspaper  and  the  '  Plague  Par- 
liament '  will  be  suppressed  before  noon  to- 
morrow." 

"  Do  you  mean  to  say,"  I  interposed,  "  that 
a  newspaper  would  not  be  allowed  to  make  a 
mere  suggestion  of  that  kind  in  good  faith  ?  " 

"  Certainly  it  would  not,"  replied  the  pro- 
fessor. "  I  happen  to  know  that  the  governor 
here  has  received  the  strictest  orders  from  the 
Minister  of  the  Interior  not  to  allow  discussion 
in  the  '  Parliament '  to  go  outside  the  limits  of 
the  single  question  submitted  to  it,  and  to  tele- 
graph him  every  day  a  full  resume  of  the  pro- 
ceedings.    Mr.  A [the  editor]  may  word 

his  suggestion  as  carefully  and  cunningly  as 
he  likes,  but  I  assure  you  that  the  censor  will 
prohibit  it." 

"  I  'm  going  to  make  it,  nevertheless,"  said 
the  editor;  "and  if  you  [turning  to  me]  will 
come  around  to  the  office  between  eleven  and 
twelve  o'clock  to-night,  you  shall  know  the 
result." 

At  the  appointed  hour  I  went  to  the  edito- 
rial rooms  of  the  "  Daily  Gazette,"  and  took  a 

seat   near   the  desk  of  Mr.  A to  await 

the  return  of  the  proof-sheets  of  the  next  morn- 
ing's paper.  About  midnight  a  small  bell  rang 
in  an  adjoining  apartment,  and  a  moment  later 
a  boy  rushed  in  with  a  drawling  cry  of  "  C-e-n- 
s-o-r ! "  and   threw  down   upon   one   of  the 

office  tables  a  bundle  of  proofs.    Mr.  A 

took  them  up,  glanced  hastily  through  them, 
and  presently  handed  to  me,  without  comment, 
a  slip  containing  an  editorial  article  headed, 
"  The  Meeting  of  Delegates  from  the  Volga 
River  Zemstvos."  The  tone  of  the  editorial, 
as  a  whole,  seemed  to  me  perfectly  unobjec- 
tionable, even  from  the  point  of  view  of  the 
most  narrow-minded  and  conservative  bureau- 
crat;   but  in  the  concluding  paragraph  Mr. 

A had   made,  mildly,    meekly,    and   in 

timidly  cautious  words,  the  suggestion  that  it 
would  perhaps  be  well  for  the  delegates  from 
the  zemstvos  to  avail  themselves  of  the  oppor- 
tunity afforded  by  the   meeting  to   consider 


6s 


-*.••.  •    z<* 


\}oTM-}\  am 


— ~-  -_,_____ ___         ^.,_ 


.  jcirispcrriaps 

■    cause  it  is  unconscious    The  Bible  : 
im\ al  danger  o§bemg  desiccated-by  an 
ve—-and  exhausting— -scientific  treat-  <; 
Vheu  incomes  to  be  regarded  chiefly 
fpendinm  of  exact  stateo^at&Qf  meta-  fj 

floctrine,' the  day, of  &  life  will 'he  1 
d  it  will  be  ready  for  ajf/iaee  ir^Jhe  ? 
of  antiquities.  It  must  bin!  px>%er  in  :] 
;*  if  it  is  to  be  a  force  in  society.-"  For  j 
vas  a  wise  critic  has  defined. It, ts  just'  } 
■x  that  has  been  thought  m-A  said  in 
.&>"•  And.  if,  this  is  true/literature  is 
0Qt  only  to-  direct  culture.. but  .also  to 


COlKlllCt, 


modern  t< 


lUlIS      Ul 


Aii'liituSot  wise  and  earnest  men 
indifference  upon  the"  course  of 
11  called,  with  a  slighting  accent. 


pestilence, 


01  LJinsdan  until  and  morass  is  u-jih,  oiher  than 
the  roalariu  of  modem  letters  —  an  atmos 

Aifiii^nvHAnnikm     Into! 

blows 
from  a  loftier  and  serencf  liekjtl 


GEORGE     KENNAN'S     ARTICLE     ON     "STATE     CRIMINALS    AT    THE     KARA     MINES,"   IN     "THE    CENTURY' 

66 


FOR    AUGUST,     1889,    AFTRK     PASSING     THE     RUSSIAN     CENSOR.      (INTERMEDIATE     PAGES     CUT    OUT.) 


67 


68 


BLACKED    OUT." 


some  other  public  questions  that  were  quite 
as  important  to  the  people  of  the  Volga  River 
basin  as  the  cattle  plague.  Through  this  par- 
agraph the  censor  had  drawn  three  or  four 
heavy  slanting  lines  with  red  ink,  and  on  the 
margin  he  had  written  in  crabbed  chirography 
the  single  word,  "  Forbidden."  The  predic- 
tion of  the  professor  was  fulfilled.  The  "  Daily 
Gazette  "  was  not  permitted  to  make  even  so 
much  as  a  suggestion  that  the  delegates  from 
the  zemstvos  might,  with  benefit  to  the  public, 
consider  certain  other  important  questions  not 
directly  connected  with  the  prevailing  epidemic. 
The  Government  had  no  objection  to  the  dis- 
cussion of  measures  that  related  exclusively 
to  beasts ;  but  a  proposal  that  the  delegates 
turn  their  attention  to  the  needs,  trials,  and  suf- 
ferings of  oppressed  human  beings  was  a  se- 
ditious attack  upon  the  sacred  privileges  of  the 
Crown.  The  cattle  plague  might  properly  be 
abated;  but  the  bureaucratic  plague  was  a 
special  dispensation  of  "the  Lord's  Anointed" 
and  must  not  be  referred  to,  even  as  a  "  certain 
other  important  question." 

My  experience  and  training  as  a  newspaper 
man  naturally  made  me  feel  more  than  an 
ordinary  interest  in  the  practical  working  of 
the  Russian  system  of  press  censorship,  and 
after  my  return  from  Siberia  to  European  Rus- 
sia I  devoted  all  the  time  thafr  I  could  spare 
to  a  study  of  the  subject.  I  talked  with  all  the 
editors  and  authors  whose  acquaintance  I  could 
make ;  visited  newspaper  offices  and  listened 
to  the  comments  of  the  editorial  staff  upon  the 
censor's  erasures,  interlineations,  and  prohibi- 
tions, and  made  a  large  collection  of  original 
proof-sheets  to  illustrate  the  working  of  this 
system  of  repression,  and  to  show  how  narrow 
are  the  limits  within  which  Russian  editors 
and  reporters  are  allowed  to  express  their 
opinions  or  display  their  activity  and  enterprise. 

In  the  office  of  a  Russian  daily  newspaper 
the  last  proof-sheets  are  received  from  the 
censor  between  twelve  and  one  o'clock  at 
night.  The  whole  night  staff  usually  assemble 
in  response  to  the  cry,  "  C-e-n-s-o-r !  "  and  one 
of  the  editors  looks  over  the  slips  and  announces 
to  his  co-workers  the  nature  of  the  changes 
that  have  been  made  by  the  official  guardian 
of  the  public  mind  and  morals,  and  reads  aloud 
the  titles  or  headings  of  the  articles  that  have 
been  forbidden  altogether.  A  hasty  consulta- 
tion is  then  held  with  regard  to  the  course  to 
be  pursued.  If  the  very  vitals  of  an  editorial 
article  have  been  cut  out  by  the  censor,  the 
night  editor  must  decide  whether  the  remains 
can  be  patched  up  by  means  of  a  skillful  surgi- 
cal operation  so  that  they  will  have  the  sem- 
blance of  organic  life  and  unity,  or  whether,  on 
the  other  hand,  they  are  so  mutilated  that 
nothing  can  be  done  with  them  except  to  bury 


them  in  the  waste-paper  basket.  If  the  censor 
has  merely  suggested  unimportant  changes  or 
modifications,  the  night  editor  must  pass  judg- 
ment upon  them  and  return  every  article  to  its 
author  for  such  corrections  as  may  be  neces- 
sary. A  large  quantity  of  matter  that  has  al- 
ready been  submitted  and  approved  is  kept 
standing  in  type,  and  with  it  are  filled  up  the 
gaps  left  by  the  striking  out,  at  the  last  mo- 
ment, of  items  or  editorial  articles  that  are  de- 
clared by  the  censor  to  be  "  out  of  place  "  or 
"  pernicious  in  their  tendency."  When  the  re- 
vised proofs  have  been  again  examined  and 
the  censor  has  gone  home,  the  work  of  the 
editors  and  reporters  is  ended  for  the  day. 
Moscow  may  burn  to  the  ground  or  the  Tsar 
may  be  assassinated,  but  after  the  censor  has 
retired  to  his  couch  not  a  line  of  new  matter 
can  be  put  into  the  columns  of  the  paper. 

It  may  perhaps  be  thought  by  persons  not 
familiar  with  the  Russian  censorship  that  cases 
of  wholesale  prohibition  are  rare  —  that  the 
censor,  as  a  rule,  exercises  his  power  with  rea- 
sonable discretion  and  forbearance ;  but  such 
is  by  no  means  the  fact.  I  have  copies  of  Rus- 
sian newspapers  in  which  from  eight  to  four- 
teen articles  or  editorials  have  been  stricken 
out  and  prohibited  altogether,  to  say  nothing 
of  changes  and  modifications  in  the  language 
of  the  items  that  have  been  allowed  to  stand. 

On  the  9th  of  May,  1881,  Mr.  Adrianof,  the 
editor  and  publisher  of  the  newspaper  known 
as  the  "  Siberian  Gazette,"  received  from  the 
censor  in  Tomsk  a  set  of  proof-sheets  in  which 
more  than  half  of  the  reading  matter  intended 
for  the  next  number  of  his  journal  had  been 
wholly  or  partly  stricken  out.  Irritated  and 
disgusted,  he  resolved  to  go  to  press  without 
substituting  any  "  approved  "  matter  for  that 
which  had  been  prohibited.  In  other  words, 
he  determined  simply  to  leave  blank  spaces 
where  the  censor  had  crossed  out  objection- 
able matter,  and  let  the  public  draw  its  own 
conclusions.  He  did  so,  and  the  "  Siberian 
Gazette"  that  appeared  on  the  morning  of 
May  10,  1 88 1,  was  perhaps  the  most  extraordi- 
nary looking  newspaper  that  ever  went  into  the 
hands  of  a  subscriber.  In  one  place  might  be 
seen  a  blank  space  of  half  a  column,  followed 
by  the  .remains  of  a  beheaded  and  mutilated 
editorial ;  in  another  appeared  a  stray,  mean- 
ingless paragraph,  without  beginning  or  end ; 
just  below  that  were  two  or  three  headlines 
calling  attention  to  a  rectangular  vacancy  ; 
and  on  one  page  only  a  few  small  islands  of 
print  had  been  left  in  a  miniature  sea  of  white 
paper. 

The  appearance  of  the  "  Gazette  "  on  the 
street  that  morning  naturally  created  a  sen- 
sation. The  demand  for  it  was  unprecedented. 
Everybody  understood  the  significance  of  the 


"BLACKED   OUT." 


69 


blank  spaces,  and  everybody  wanted  a  copy. 
The  attention  of  the  police,  however,  was 
soon  attracted  to  the  paper,  and  an  order  was 
promptly  issued  to  seize  and  destroy  the  whole 
edition.  So  thorough  was  the  search  made  for 
copies  of  that  number  of  the  "  Gazette  "  that 
hardly  one  escaped.  Mr.  Adrianof  himself 
could  not  show  me  one  four  years  afterwards, 
nor  tell  me  where  one  might  be  obtained.  He 
could,  however,  give  me  a  copy  of  the  follow- 
ing number,  in  which  the  press  censor,  with 
characteristic  stupidity  and  inconsistency,  had 
allowed  him  to  publish  the  following  "  Notice 
to  Subscribers": 

The  editor  of  the  "Siberian  Gazette"  regards  it 
as  his  duty  to  inform  his  subscribers  that  No.  1 1 
of  that  paper  cannot  be  sent  to  them  for  the  fol- 
lowing reason  :  Not  finding  anything  in  the  press 
laws  to  prohibit  the  leaving  of  blank  spaces  in 
columns  where  printed  matter  had  been  crossed  out 
by  the  Government  press  censor,  the  editor,  in  the 
last  number  of  the  "Siberian  Gazette,"  adopted 
that  course.  Upon  sending  a  telegram,  however,  to 
the  Minister  of  the  Interior  with  regard  to  the  sub- 
ject, the  editor  received  the  following  reply  from 
Hofmeister  P.  P.  Viazemski,  Acting  Chief  Director 
of  Press  Affairs:  u  Blank  spaces  in  the  pages  of 
newspapers  are  an  implied  protest  against  prelim- 
inary censorship,  and  cannot  be  permitted." 

A  copy  of  the  number  of  the  "  Siberian  Ga- 
zette" that  contains  this  remarkable  "Notice" 
—  No.  12,  May  17,  1881 — is  in  my  posses- 
sion. The  "  Gazette  "  has  since  that  time  been 
twice  suspended  for  "  manifesting  a  pernicious 
tendency,"  and  has  finally  been  suppressed  alto- 
gether upon  the  nominal  charge  of  giving 
employment  to  "  untrustworthy  "  (neblagona- 
dezhni)  persons  and  publishing  an  obituary 
notice  of  the  dead  political  exile  Zabaluief. 
The  "  pernicious  tendency  "  of  the  "  Gazette," 
as  appears  from  the  mutilated  proof-sheets  of 
it  now  in  my  possession,  was  "  manifested " 
in  the  patriotic  attempts  that  it  made  to  call 
the  attention  of  the  Russian  public  to  cases 
of  fraud,  bribe-taking,  extortion,  and  acts  of 
cruelty  among  Siberian  officials.  Mr.  Adrianof, 
its  former  editor,  is  a  man  of  the  highest  and 
purest  personal  character,  and  since  the  sup- 
pression of  his  newspaper  he  has  been  en- 
gaged in  making  archaeological  researches  for 
the  West  Siberian  section  of  the  Imperial  Geo- 
graphical Society.  Archaeology,  since  it  relates 
to  a  prehistoric  period,  is  one  of  the  branches 
of  human  knowledge  over  which  the  Russian 
press  censor  does  not  claim  original  juris- 
diction and  exercise  supreme  control.  Un- 
less Mr.  Adrianof  should  be  so  unfortunate 
as  to  exhume  an  inscribed  brick  or  find  a  cliff 
hieroglyph  bearing  evidence  of  the  existence 
somewhere  and  at  some  time  of  a  people  not 
dominated  by  a  Tsar  and  regulated  by  a  press 


censor,  he  may,  perhaps,  be  able  to  pursue  his 
labors  unmolested. 

To  an  American  newspaper  man  it  would 
seem  absurdly  inconsistent  to  seize  and  burn 
the  whole  edition  of  one  number  of  a  periodi- 
cal for  leaving  blank  spaces  where  the  censor 
had  crossed  out  matter,  and  then  to  allow  the 
editor  in  the  very  next  number  to  explain  all 
the  circumstances  of  the  case,  in  the  form  of  a 
notice  to  subscribers ;  but  the  ways  of  Russian 
officials  are  past  finding  out.  In  the  history 
of  the  Russian  press  censorship  I  know  of 
only  one  more  remarkable  attempt  than  this 
to  evade  governmental  prohibition  and  call 
the  attention  of  the  public  to  the  injustice  of 
Russian  gag-law. 

In  the  early  part  of  the  year  1886  prepa- 
rations were  being  made  throughout  Russia  to 
celebrate  in  an  appropriate  manner  the  twenty- 
fifth  anniversary  of  the  emancipation  of  the 
serfs.  Quarter-centennial  celebrations  are  com- 
mon in  Russia,  and  nobody  outside  of  official 
circles  supposed  for  a  moment  that  the  Gov- 
ernment would  interfere  to  prevent  the  com- 
memoration of  the  most  momentous  event  in 
modern  Russian  history.  In  pursuance,  how- 
ever, of  the  reactionary  policy  that  has  char- 
acterized the  reign  of  Alexander  III.,  Count 
Dmitri  Tolstoi,  who  was  then  Minister  of  the 
Interior,  caused  to  be  sent  to  all  provincial 
officers  of  the  Crown  an  order  prohibiting 
the  public  celebration  of  the  19th  of  February 
throughout  the  Empire,  and  directing  press 
censors  to  notify  all  newspapers  that  on  that 
day  editorial  reference  to  the  emancipation 
act  or  to  any  of  its  consequences  was  strictly 
forbidden.  As  a  result  of  this  order,  every  daily 
newspaper  in  the  Empire,  except  one,  appeared 
on  the  morning  of  February  19,  1886,  in  the 
attitude  of  a  gagged  and  beaten  slave.  Not 
one  of  the  journals  that  actually  went  to  press 
dared  make  an  allusion  to  the  significance  of 
the  day  or  to  the  great  charter  of  liberty  that 
had  rendered  it  famous. 

All  the  newspapers  of  the  Empire,  however, 
did  not  appear.  The  "  Russian  Gazette  "  of 
Moscow,  finding  itself  unable  to  voice  the 
thoughts  suggested  by  the  great  quarter-cen- 
tennial anniversary,  resolved  to  celebrate  the 
day  in  the  only  manner  possible — by  suspend- 
ing publication  altogether.  It  would  hold  its 
tongue  voluntarily,  but  the  Government  should 
not  force  it  to  appear  with  a  gag  in  its  mouth. 
If  the  Minister  of  the  Interior  had  been  aware 
of  the  resolution  formed  by  theeditors  of  the 
"  Gazette,"  he  would  perhaps  have  found  some 
means  of  compelling  them  to  bring  out  their 
paper  that  morning  as  usual;  but  no  intimation 
of  their  intention  reached  him,  and  on  the  night 
of  February  18-19,  1886,  the  presses  of  the 
great  Moscow  newspaper  were  still.    When 


7° 


"BLACKED    OUTr 


on  the  following  morning  people  began  to  in- 
quire of  one  another  what  had  happened  to 
the  "Russian  Gazette,"  the  reply  was  whis- 
pered about,  "  It  is  celebrating  by  its  silence 
the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  emancipa- 
tion of  the  serfs." 

From  the  illustrations  of  Russian  press  cen- 
sorship that  I  have  given,  the  reader  can  form 
a  fairly  accurate  idea  of  the  summary  way  in 
which  the  Government  of  the  Tsar  dealt  with 
its  own  journals  when  they  "  manifested  a 
pernicious  tendency."  But  Russian  journals 
were  not  the  only  periodicals  that  circulated 
in  the  Empire.  Newspapers  and  magazines 
published  in  London,  Paris,  Berlin,  and  New 
York  City  came  constantly  to  Russia,  bearing 
in  their  closely  packed  columns  the  seeds  of 
discontent  and  "  sedition."  How  were  the 
subjects  of  the  Tsar  to  be  protected  from  the 
"  pernicious  "  influence  of  this  foreign  litera- 
ture ?  The  Russian  press  censor,  omnipotent 
although  he  might  be  in  his  own  field,  could 
not  cross  out  with  red  ink  an  obnoxious  edito- 
rial in  the  proof-sheets  of  the  London  "  Times," 
nor  suppress  The  Century  Magazine  for  pub- 
lishing a  series  of  articles  on  the  exile  system  j 
and  yet  the  Russian  people  must  be  prevented 
in  some  way  from  reading  the  objectionable 
parts  of  such  periodicals.  When  confront- 
ed by  this  difficulty,  the  Russian  Govern- 
ment acted  with  characteristic  directness  and 
vigor.  It  made  the  mere  possession  of  forbid- 
den literature  a  penal  offense,  and  then,  as  if 
that  was  not  enough,  it  violated  the  sanctity 
of  its  own  mails,  seized,  opened,  and  exam- 
ined every  foreign  periodical  that  came  into 
the  Empire,  and  appointed  a  staff  of  cen- 
sors to  tear  out  or  "black  out"  every  editorial 
that  criticized  unfavorably  Russian  govern- 
mental methods,  and  every  magazine  article 
that,  in  the  judgment  of  such  censors,  was 
"  pernicious  "  in  its  tendency. 

Under  the  term  "  pernicious  "  were  classified, 
of  course,  all  the  papers  upon  Siberia  and  the 
exile  system  that  appeared  in  The  Century. 
Some  time  before  the  announcement  of  this 
series  of  articles  I  began  sending  the  magazine 
to  a  friend  in  Western  Siberia,  with  the  hope  of 
establishing  for  it  in  the  censorial  mind,  while  it 
was  yet  innocent,  a  reputation  for  safety  and 
"  trustworthiness."  I  thought  that  the  censor 
would  probably  look  over  three  or  four  suc- 
cessive numbers,  and,  finding  in  them  nothing 
of  a  "pernicious  "  character,  would  relax  his 
vigilance  to  such  an  extent  that  I  could  get 
two  or  three  articles  of  the  exile  series  through 
unnoticed.     I  soon  discovered,  however,  that 


the  Russian  frontier  censor  was  not  to  be  lulled 
into  a  feeling  of  security  by  an  examination  of 
three  or  four  harmless  numbers  of  a  foreign 
periodical.  The  very  first  article  upon  a  Rus- 
sian topic  that  made  its  appearance— the  ar- 
ticle entitled  "  A  Visit  to  Count  Tolstoi,"  in 
The  Century  for  June,  1887 — was  partly 
torn  and  partly  blacked  out,  and  not  a  single 
paper  of  the  exile  series  escaped.1 

In  the  summer  of  1888  Mr.  Holl,  an  Amer- 
ican gentleman  traveling  in  Russia,  received 
from  the  postal  authorities  a  copy  of  The 
Century  from  which  had  been  torn  not  only 
the  Siberian  paper  for  that  month,  but  nearly 
all  of  the  leaves  that  contained  advertisements. 
Curious  to  know  why  The  Century  adver- 
tisements were  regarded  as  objectionable,  Mr. 
Holl  called  upon  one  of  the  police  officials  in 
the  town  where  he  happened  to  be,  exhibited 
the  mutilated  magazine,  and  asked  for  an  ex- 
planation. He  said  that  he  was  not  particu- 
larly surprised  at  the  tearing  out  of  the  article 
upon  Russia,  but  he  could  not  understand  why 
the  advertisements  had  been  removed.  He 
then  added  —  as  a  mild  American  joke  —  that 
it  might  perhaps  be  attributable  to  the  fact 
that  many  of  the  advertisements  set  forth  the 
virtues  of  American  soap,  and  that,  from  such 
observations  as  he  had  been  able  to  make  in 
his  journey  through  the  Empire,  he  had  already 
reached  the  conclusion  that  soap  must  be  a  pro- 
hibited article,  and  in  that  case,  of  course,  it  was 
only  natural  and  proper  that  the  censor  should 
tear  out  and  destroy  all  soap  advertisements  in 
foreign  magazines.  The  police  official,  whose 
intelligence  had  not  been  cultivated  up  to  an 
appreciation  of  American  jokes,  took  offense  at 
this  innocent  bit  of  raillery,  and  Mr.  Holl  had 
some  difficulty  in  placating  him.  When,  how- 
ever, his  ruffled  dignity  had  been  smoothed 
down,  he  informed  the  American  traveler,  with 
an  air  of  severe  condemnation,  that  The  Cen- 
tury advertisements  had  been  torn  out  "be- 
cause they  contained  notices  of  irreligious 
books !  "  From  what  aerial  standpoint  of  pure 
orthodoxy  he  passed  this  judgment  upon 
the  books  advertised  in  The  Century,  I  do 
not  know;  but,  as  a  member  of  a  church 
that  encourages  ignorant  and  superstitious 
peasants  to  hang  articles  of  clothing  upon 
"  miracle-working  "  pictures  and  images  and 
calls  that  sort  of  fetish  worship  religion,  he 
was  doubtless  quite  right  in  regarding  the 
books  advertised  in  The  Century  as  ir- 
religious. 

Since  the  visit  of  Mr.  Holl  to  Russia  every 
copy  of  The  Century  Magazine  that  I  have 


1  This  statement  refers  only  to  the  copies  of  The  authorities  with  regard  to  the  mutilation  of  her  copies  of 

Century  that  I  myself  sent  to  Russia.     I  learn  from  the  magazine,  she  was  finally  permitted  to  receive  them 

Miss  Isabel  F.  Hapgood,  who  was  in  St.  Petersburg  in  their  normal  condition, 
last  year,  that  after  making  a  formal  complaint  to  the 


"BLACKED    OUT." 


7i 


sent  to  friends  in  that  country  has  been  more 
or  less  mutilated  by  the  censor.  My  own  arti- 
cles have  always  been  cut  or  blacked  out,  and 
many  chapters  of  the  "  Life  of  Lincoln  "  have 
met  with  the  same  fate. 

The  removal  of  objectionable  articles  or  items 
from  foreign  periodicals  in  Russia  is  accom- 
plished in  two  ways.  If  they  are  long  and 
bulky,  they  are  torn  or  cut  out  bodily.  If  they 
are  brief,  they  are  blacked  out  by  means  of  a 
rectangular  stamp  which  has  about  the  width 
of  an  ordinary  newspaper  column,  and  which 
is  "  cross-hatched  "  in  such  a  way  that  when 
inked  and  pressed  upon  the  paper  it  makes  a 
close  network  of  white  lines  and  black  dia- 
monds. The  peculiar  mottled  or  grained  ap- 
pearance of  a  page  of  print  that  has  been 
blacked  out  with  this  stamp  has  suggested  to 
Russian  readers  a  descriptive  slang  term  for  it, 
namely,  "  caviare."  Any  one  who  has  ever  seen 
the  black  salted  caviare  of  Russia  spread  upon 
a  slice  of  bread  and  butter  will  appreciate  the 
felicity  of  the  metaphorical  comparison.  From 
the  noun  a  verb  has  been  formed,  and  every 
Russian  now  understands  that  "  to  caviare  " 
means. to  "black  out"  an  objectionable  page 
or  paragraph  by  pressing  upon  it  the  censor's 
stamp. 

The  illustrations  that  accompany  this  arti- 
cle are  reproductions  in  facsimile  of  the  first 
page  and  the  last  page  of  an  article  entitled, 
"  State  Criminals  at  the  Kara  Mines,"  which 
was  printed  in  The  Century  last  August, 
and  which  was  partly  cut  and  partly  blacked 
out  after  the  magazine  reached  Russia. 

It  is  a  curious  and  noteworthy  circumstance 
that  while  this  record  of  The  Century  Com- 
pany's Siberian  investigation  has  been  "  cavi- 
ared  "  by  the  stamp  of  the  press  censor,  the 
names  of  the  two  investigators  have  been  al- 
lowed to  stand.  At  the  bottom  of  the  last  page 
of  the  article  may  still  be  seen  the  name  of 
the  author  and  the  brief  but  significant  state- 
ment that  "  Frost  drew."  The  record  of  our 
work  has  been  "  blacked  out,"  but  our  names 
have  been  spared.  For  this  mercy  many 
thanks !  The  Russian  reader  who  is  curious 
to  know  what  "  Frost  drew  "  and  what  Ken- 
nan  wrote  has  only  to  ask  a  London  news- 
dealer to  cut  out  the  article  and  send  it  to 
him  in  a  registered  letter. 

The  futility  of  this  peculiarly  Russian  method 
of  enforcing  ignorance  is  almost  as  striking  to 
an  American  as  are  its  cool  impudence  and 
audacity.  For  reasons  that  are  perfectly  obvi- 
ous, it  does  not  accomplish,  and  cannot  ac- 
complish, the  objects  that  its  authors  have  in 
view.  As  long  as  the  Russian  Government 
permits  letters  to  come  into  the  Empire  with- 
out censorial  examination,  any  citizen  of  St. 
Petersburg  or  Moscow  can  write  to  a  dealer 


in  periodicals  in  Berlin,  Paris,  or  London  and 
ask  him  to  cut  out  and  forward  in  a  sealed 
envelope  either  a  particular  article  that  has 
already  been  "  caviared,"  or  all  articles  re- 
lating to  Russia  that  may  appear  in  any  speci- 
fied newspaper  or  magazine.  Thus  far  the 
efforts  that  have  been  made  by  the  Russian 
press  censors  to  exclude  from  the  country  the 
Siberian  papers  of  The  Century  have  utterly 
failed.  The  "  blacked  out "  articles  not  only 
have  made  their  way  into  Russia,  but  have 
there  been  translated  and  hectographed,  and 
are  now  circulating  from  hand  to  hand  through- 
out the  Empire.  Many  of  them  have  even 
reached  political  exiles  in  the  remotest  parts 
of  Siberia.  I  regret  to  say,  however,  that  some 
of  them  have  brought  disaster  upon  the  re- 
cipients, and  that  at  least  one  young  Russian 
is  now  lying  in  prison  for  having  them  in  his 
possession.  Some  time  ago,  in  response  to  an 
urgent  request,  I  sent  a  number  of  them  to  a 
young  journalist  of  my  acquaintance  in  Central 
Russia  named  Ivan  Petrovitch  Belokonski.  I 
was  afraid  that  they  would  get  him  into  trouble ; 
but  he  insisted  upon  having  them,  and  I  could 
not  do  otherwise  than  send  them.  I  have  just 
received  from  one  of  his  acquaintances  the 
following  letter : 

X ,  Russia,  Dec.   16-28,  1889. 

My  dear  Mr.  Kennan  :  I  avail  myself  of  a  favor- 
able opportunity  to  write  you  a  few  words  and  give 
you  some  melancholy  news.  I  do  not  know  whether 
you  have  heard  or  not  that  your  friend  Ivan  Petro- 
vitch Belokonski  has  gotten  into  trouble  as  a  result 
of  two  large  pictures  (one  of  an  exile  party  on  the 
road,  and  the  other  of  an  attempted  escape)  that 
you  sent  him.1  An  acquaintance  to  whom  he 
had  given  them  was  arrested,  and  so  much  im- 
portance was  attributed  to  these  pictures  that  Mr. 
Belokonski  was  subjected  to  an  examination  with 
regard  to  them,  and  orders  were  received  by  the 
police  from  St.  Petersburg  to  watch  him  "  with 
especial  attention."  This  was  in  December,  1888. 
On  the  29th  of  the  following  April  the  police  en- 
tered Mr.  Belokonski's  house  at  three  o'clock  in  the 
morning  for  the  purpose  of  making  a  search.  Noth- 
ing of  a  forbidden  nature  was  found  except  Leroy- 
Beaulieu's  "  L'Empire  des  Tsars"  and  three  of 
your  magazine  articles.    Searches  were  made  that 

same  night  in  eighteen  other  houses  in ,  but 

for  what  reason  no  one  knows  to  this  day.  On 
the  8th  of  May,  Mr.  Belokonski  was  again  sum- 
moned to  the  police  station  for  examination,  and  was 
sent  from  there  to  prison,  where  he  has  been  ever 
since.  It  may  seem  to  you  very  strange  that  a  man 
with  a  family  dependent  upon  him  should  have 
been  arrested  in  this  way  and  should  have 
been  held  already  eight  months  in  prison  —  and 
for  what  ?    Merely  for  having  your  articles  in  his 

1  These  were  two  large  advertising  sheets  or  post- 
ers printed  and  distributed  by  the  publishers  of  Thk 
Century  Magazine  for  the  purpose  of  calling  atten- 
tion to  its  Siberian  articles. 


72 


A    STUDY  OF  CONSCIOUSNESS. 


possession.  We  Russians  however  are  so  accustomed 
to  such  things  that  they  do  not  in  the  least  surprise 
us,  but  they  make  us  sad  at  heart.  Even  under  the 
evil  conditions  of  our  life  we  still  retain  an  ardent 
love  of  freedom  —  and  how  much  freedom  have 
we  ?   Even  the  Turks  are  freer  ! 

The  family  of  Ivan  Petrovitch  consists  of  five  per- 
sons. They  are  in  great  need,  and  yet  Mrs.  Belo- 
konski  has  been  forbidden  by  the  governor  to  teach 
or  give  private  lessons,  and  she  finds  it  very  diffi- 
cult in  a  small  provincial  town  to  get  any  other 
work.  You  may  ask,  "How,  then, do  they  live?" 
Mrs.  Belokonski  has  thus  far  been  able  to  support 
herself  and  her  children  by  selling  or  pawning  her 
furniture  and  moving  into  smaller  and  cheaper 
quarters.  She  has  to  support,  moreover,  not  only 
herself  and  her  children,  but  her  imprisoned  hus- 
band. The  Government  allows  him  only  two  rubles 
and  thirty  kopeks  [  $  i .  1 5]  #  month  for  food ;  and  in 
order  to  keep  him  from  losing  strength  and  break- 
ing down  from  semi-starvation,  she  has  to  buy  food 
and  carry  it  to  him  in  prison.  Fortunately,  she  is  a 
woman  of  strong  character.  If  she  were  not,  there 
would  be  nothing  for  her  to  do  but  lie  down  and 
die. 

I  should  like  very  much  to  read  your  last  articles, 
but  I  dare  not  ask  you  to  send  them  to  me,  and 
must  postpone  a  perusal  of  them  to  a  more  favor- 
able time.  With  a  warm  grasp  of  the  hand,  and  with 
most  cordial  regard,  I  am, 

Yours  sincerely, 


Comment  upon  this  letter  is  unnecessary. 
My  friend  Mr.  Belokonski  will  probably  go  to 
Siberia  by  administrative  process  for  having 
my  articles  in  his  possession,  and  I  am  almost 
powerless  to  help  him. 

What  does  the  Russian  Government  hope 
or  expect  to  accomplish  by  "blacking  out" 
articles  that  aim  simply  to  tell  the  truth  with 


regard  to  Russian  affairs,  and  by  throwing  into 
prison  every  man  in  whose  possession  such 
articles  may  be  found  ? 

The  Russian  author  Prugavin,  in  a  book  that 
was  inadvertently  sanctioned  by  the  press  cen- 
sor, but  that  was  afterward  seized  and  burned, 
asks  this  same  question,  and  says :  "  Can  an 
idea  be  choked  to  death  ?  Can  thought  be 
killed,  buried,  or  annihilated  ?  Are  not  truth, 
and  love,  and  justice,  and  freedom  immor- 
tal ?  It  is  the  most  terrible  of  mistakes  to  sup- 
pose that  ideas  can  ever  be  crushed.  Peo- 
ple have  perished  —  men  have  died  in  chains 
and  casemates,  their  bodies  have  decayed, 
their  graves  have  been  lost,  and  their  very 
names  have  been  forgotten;  but  their  ideas 
and  aspirations  live  on.  Washed  in  the  blood 
of  suffering,  such  ideas  and  aspirations  have 
become  the  dream  of  every  man  in  whose 
brain  a  thought  stirs  and  in  whose  breast  a 
heart  beats." 

The  press  censor,  when  he  burned  Prugavin's 
book,  thought  that  he  had  destroyed  forever 
its  "pernicious"  influence;  but  the  "ideas  and 
aspirations"  of  the  gifted  author  "live  on"; 
and  his  words,  although  burned  by  order  of 
Government  in  Russia,  will  appeal  to  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  sympathetic  hearts  in  England 
and  the  United  States. 

Some  time  in  the  far-distant  future  the  free 
Russian  patriot,  no  longer  blinded  by  the  cen- 
sorship of  the  press,  will  look  over  the  pages 
of  his  national  history  that  record  these  at- 
tempts to  gag  public  opinion  and  strangle  hu- 
man thought,  and  will  wish  from  the  bottom 
of  his  heart  that  so  humiliating  and  shameful 
a  record  might  be  "  blacked  out." 


George  Kennan. 


A    STUDY    OF    CONSCIOUSNESS.1 


gHE  extraordinary  success  of 
the  novelettes  "Archibald 
Malmaison  "  and  "  The  Strange 
Case  of  Dr.  Jekyll  and  Mr. 
Hyde"  has  been  largely  due 
to  the  dramatic  excitement  of 
their  plots,  but  part  of  it  has 
been  the  result  of  the  amazed 
interest  with  which  even  the  im- 
perfectly educated  are  in  these  later  days 
beginning  to  contemplate  themselves.  For 
centuries  the  questions,  Whither  am  I  going  ? 
and  What  shall  I  be  ?  have  thrilled  and  dom- 
inated human  thought  and  human  feeling; 
but  as  the  strange  nooks  and  crannies  of  the 
human  organism  have  been  more  and  more 

1  See  also  "  Memory,"  by  the  same  author,  in  The 
Century  for  March. 


revealed  by  the  light  of  research,  side  by  side 
with  speculations  concerning  the  future  press 
forward  inquiries  as  to  the  present.  Not  only 
do  we  ask,  What  shall  I  be  ?  but  also,  What 
am  I  ?  In  consonance  with  this  questioning, 
in  pulpit  and  on  platform  the  Ego  is  per- 
petually the  theme  of  eloquent  discourse.  To 
define,  in  terms  clear  and  sharp,  the  exact  mean- 
ing of  the  Ego  of  the  popular  philosopher 
would  be  a  task  of  difficulty;  but  certainly 
underneath  all  human  individuality  is  the  fac- 
ulty or  attribute  of  consciousness. 

If,  in  a  general  company,  the  question 
should  be  asked,  Is  there  such  a  thing  as 
unconsciousness?  almost  every  one  would  at 
once  reply,  "  Of  course  there  is.  The  stone  is 
unconscious;  the  corpse  is  unconscious;  we 
are    unconscious    in    sleep."     Such    answers 


A    STUDY  OF  CONSCIOUSNESS. 


73 


would,  however,  be  too  flippant.  I  am  not 
going  to  assert  that  all  matter  has  conscious- 
ness, but  it  is  certainly  very  difficult  to  prove 
that  either  the  stick  or  the  stone  is  uncon- 
scious; at  least  I  know  of  no  way  of  posi- 
tively demonstrating  it.  If  we  analyze  our 
ordinary  tests  of  consciousness,  I  think  that 
we  shall  find  that  each  of  them  belongs  to 
one  of  three  groups.  In  the  first  place,  the 
conscious  person  or  animal  does  acts  which 
seem  purposive,  i.  <?.,  he  does  acts  which  look 
as  though  they  were  performed  for  a  definite 
purpose,  consonant  with  his  surroundings.  In 
the  second  place,  when  the  conscious  person 
or  animal  is  irritated,  a  response  is  given. 
Thus,  we  speak  to  a  man,  and  he  answers; 
we  throw  a  light  in  his  face,  and  he  shows 
signs  of  recognition ;  we  pinch  him,  and  he 
cries  out;  we  hit  him,  and  he  strikes  back; 
we  kick  him,  and  he  departs.  In  the  third 
place,  there  is  memory  of  events.  If  the 
quiet,  apparently  inanimate  corpse  awakes  to 
complete  consciousness  and  describes  how 
the  wake  has  been  furious  around  his  bier,  we 
know  that  during  his  passive  condition  he  was 
conscious.  When  a  mass  of  living  or  dead 
matter  performs  no  purposive  action,  yields 
no  signs  when  irritated,  and  has  no  after  mem- 
ory of  events,  we  say  that  such  a  mass  is  or 
has  been  unconscious.  Each  of  these  tests  of 
consciousness  is  by  itself  fallacious.  The  most 
vivid  consciousness  may  exist,  and  one  or  more 
of  the  tests  fail  entirely.  Do  three  naughts 
joined  together  make  a  whole  number  ?  Does 
the  heaping  up  of  fallacies  give  us  an  impreg- 
nable fortress  of  truth  ?  If  I  am  able  to  show 
the  correctness  of  my  assertion  that  each  of 
these  tests  of  unconsciousness  is  fallacious, 
I  insist  that  there  is  no  absolute  proof  of 
unconsciousness. 

Practical  examples  of  the  failure  of  each  one 
of  these  tests  singly  by  itself,  to  prove  the  pres- 
ence of  unconsciousness,  might  be  multiplied 
indefinitely,  but  for  brevity's  sake  I  will  content 
myself  with  the  narration  of  a  few  instances. 

The  first  test  is  that  of  purposive  action. 
Not  long  ago  I  was  consulted  by  a  woman 
who  had  epilepsy,  and  who  belonged  to  the 
lower  walks  of  life,  and  was  accustomed  to 
do  her  own  housework.  Suddenly  and  without 
warning  she  would  at  irregular  intervals  utter 
the  terrible  cry  which  so  often  ushers  in  the 
epileptic  storm,  and  fall  in  a  convulsion.  After 
the  fury  of  motion  had  passed,  she  would  re- 
main quiet  for  a  short  time  and  then  rise  and 
continue  whatever  work  she  had  been  doing 
when  the  attack  came  on,  although  she  was 
entirely  unconscious, —  at  least  she  yielded  no 
sign  of  recognition  when  spoken  to  or  shaken, 
— and  afterwards  had  no  recollection  of  events. 
Thus,  if  she  had  been  setting  the  dinner-table 


when  the  epileptic  paroxysm  developed,  she 
would  go  into  the  kitchen,  get  the  dished-up 
food  and  arrange  it  on  the  table  in  the  usual 
manner.  By  and  by  she  would  wake  up, 
saying:  "Where  am  I?  What  am  I  doing?" 
She  did  not  know  what  she  had  been  doing. 
There  was  no  memory  of  the  labor  she  had 
been  performing.  If  in  this  condition  she  were 
spoken  to,  she  gave  no  heed.  If  a  hot  iron 
were  thrust  into  her  flesh,  she  would  not 
mark  it. 

One  day,  while  1  was  in  my  ward  in  the 
Philadelphia  Hospital,  suddenly  there  was  a 
shriek,  and  a  colored  man  at  the  farther  end 
of  the  room,  with  a  bound,  rushed  towards  the 
door.  There  was  a  convulsive  struggle,  and 
the  man  was  thrown  and  held  by  the  assist- 
ants. It  was  a  case  of  running  epilepsy.  If  let 
alone  the  man  would  run  for  half  a  mile,  then 
suddenly  come  to  himself  and  wonder  how  he 
had  reached  where  he  was.  Trousseau's  famous 
case  of  the  master  builder  of  Paris  is  parallel 
to  this.  While  overlooking  the  erection  of  one 
of  the  many  palaces  for  which  that  city  is 
noted,  suddenly,  with  a  cry,  the  man  would 
rush  from  scaffold  to  scaffold,  up  and  down 
steep  inclines,  never  falling,  passing  with  a 
steady  head  over  places  where  he  dare  not  go 
when  conscious.  There  was  an  apparently  pur- 
posive action,  and  yet  when  the  man  came  to 
himself  he  had  no  memory  of  what  he  had 
done,  and  during  the  time  of  the  attack  he  did 
not  respond  to  irritation. 

The  facts  of  somnambulism  and  artificial 
hypnotism  also  show  that  it  is  possible  for  a 
man  to  act  for  a  purpose  and  yet  not  be  able 
to  control  himself  or  to  have  a  true  recognition 
of  his  surroundings.  Moreover,  in  some,  but 
not  all,  of  these  cases,  the  person  on  awaking 
remembers  what  he  has  done,  although  during 
the  attack  he  would  not  respond  to  irritations, 
unless  they  were  in  immediate  accord  with  his 
mental  state.  Related  to  this  condition  are  the 
so-called  night-terrors,  in  which  the  screaming 
child,  terrified  by  some  dream,  seems  to  be 
awake,  but  is,  in  many  cases  at  least,  not  really 
awake,  and  cannot  be  soothed  or  brought  to 
recognize  his  mother  for  a  long  time.  As  in- 
stances of  somnambulism,  I  cite  the  following 
cases. 

One  night  the  prior  of  a  German  abbey,  go- 
ing to  his  cell  much  later  than  usual,  was  as- 
tonished to  see  one  of  the  monks  passing  along 
the  hall  with  a  wild,  fierce  expression  of  face, 
a  drawn  dagger  in  one  hand  and  a  light  in  the 
other.  The  superior  watched  the  monk  as  he 
walked,  with  staring  eye  and  determined  mien, 
to  the  prior's  door  and  opened  it.  The  prior 
followed  him  without  noise.  The  man  placed 
the  lamp  upon  the  table,  went  over  to  the 
prior's  bed,  felt  cautiously  with  the  hand  that 


74 


A    STUDY  OF  CONSCIOUSNESS. 


was  unarmed,  and  then  with  the  dagger  struck 
three  times  so  forcibly  that  the  knife  went 
through  the  bed-clothes  and  the  mattress.  Now 
the  light  of  triumph  came  into  his  face,  and 
picking  up  his  candle,  he  marched  out  of  the 
room  and  back  to  his  cell.  The  next  morning 
the  prior  sent  for  the  monk.  The  man  was  evi- 
dently embarrassed.  He  was  asked  if  he  had 
had  a  quiet  night.  "  No,"  he  said;  "I  had  a 
restless  night."  "  What  was  the  matter?  "  "  I 
shall  have  to  confess,"  the  monk  replied.  "  I 
dreamed  that  you  had  murdered  my  mother, 
and  that  I  was  impelled  by  wild  fury  and  re- 
venge to  go  to  your  room  and  stab  you  to 
death,  and  that  I  succeeded.  When  I  awoke, 
the  sweat  stood  on  me  with  horror  at  the  deed, 
and  on  my  bended  knees  I  thanked  God  that 
it  was  but  a  dream."  It  is  needless  to  say  that 
after  that  night  the  good  brother  was  locked 
in  his  cell  every  evening. 

A  case  which  ended  less  favorably  occurred 
some  years  ago  near  Edinburgh.  At  the  trial 
of  a  man  named  Yellowlees,  for  the  murder  of 
his  child,  it  was  proved  that  even  in  his  boy- 
hood, when  living  by  the  border  of  a  stream  in 
the  Black  Forest,  at  night  he  would  rush  out 
of  the  house,  screaming  the  name  of  a  sister 
of  whom  he  was  fond,  would  go  down  the 
bank  into  the  raging  torrent  feeling  for  his  sis- 
ter, and  then  with  a  yell  of  triumph  go  back 
to  the  shore.  Sometimes  he  would  stand  at  the 
edge  of  the  stream  crying,  "  Help,  help !  " 
Yet  he  was  perfectly  unconscious;  even  im- 
mersion in  the  cold  water  failed  to  awaken 
him.  He  would  go  back  to  his  bed,  and  re- 
member nothing  about  it,  and  wonder  in  the 
morning  how  he  had  gotten  so  wet.  As  he 
grew  up  to  manhood,  married,  and  had  a 
family,  the  attacks,  continuing,  took  a  different 
form.  At  night  there  would  come  to  him  a 
great  light  streaming  through  an  opening  in 
the  floor,  or  mayhap  through  a  window.  With 
this  there  was  a  vision  of  great  beasts  rushing 
towards  the  sleepers.  He  would  jump  out  of 
bed  in  terror,  and  attempt  to  drive  these  beasts 
from  his  family.  It  was  in  such  somnambu- 
listic and  unconscious  condition  that  he  had 


ledge  or  consciousness  of  things  going  on  about 
the  person,  and  with  memory  of  events. 

Gueneau  de  Mussy  reported  to  the  French 
Academy  the  case  of  a  woman  who  had  gone 
to  sleep  in  1808  and  in  1838  was  still  sleep- 
ing. With  the  legs  drawn  up  to  the  abdomen, 
the  arms  on  the  breast,  the  eyes  tightly  closed, 
her  frame  emaciated  to  the  last  degree,  and 
with  the  ebb  and  flow  of  the  aerial  tide  of 
respiration  scarcely  perceptible,  that  woman 
lived  on  through  the  decades,  fed  now  and 
then  with  a  crumb.  There  are  a  number  of 
well-authenticated  cases  like  this,  but  in  none 
that  I  know  of  has  the  condition  continued  so 
long.  The  sleeping  girl  of  Turville  slept 
through  eighteen  years.  Cases  in  which  the 
sleep  has  continued  for  days,  weeks,  months, 
or  years  are  not  rare.  This  morbid  sleep  is 
nothing  more  than  what  is  normal  in  many 
animals.  The  bear  sleeps  through  the  long 
winter  months  without  food  or  motion. 

Closely  allied  to  this  morbid  sleep  is  hys- 
terical trance,  in  which  the  power  of  recog- 
nition passes  away;  all  muscles  settle  into 
absolute  quiet;  the  pulse  becomes  more  and 
more  feeble,  until  it  can  no  longer  be  felt  at  the 
wrist;  respiration  appears  to  cease,  so  that  even 
a  feather  held  over  the  mouth  gives  no  sign ;  and 
the  man  or  woman  seems  to  be  dead.  When 
under  these  circumstances  consciousness  is  pre- 
served, the  so-called  lucid  lethargy  results,  a 
condition  which  may  follow  an  attack  of  acute 
disease  with  effects  to  the  sufferer  most  dire. 
In  the  Wiertz  Gallery  at  Brussels  two  com- 
panion pictures,  which  attract  almost  univer- 
sal attention,  illustrate  the  closing  scene  of 
a  cholera  tragedy.  One  portrays  the  father 
carried  in  a  rough  pine  box  by  ruffians  to  his 
burial,  in  spite  of  the  frantic  outcries  and  im- 
potent resistance  of  wife  and  children;  the 
other  represents  the  scene  a  little  later :  in 
a  dark  and  noisome  vault  the  coffin  lies  with 
others  piled  upon  it;  its  occupant,  recovered 
from  his  lucid  lethargy,  has  burst  open  the  lid, 
and,  with  agonized  face  peering  through  the 
rent,  is  violently  struggling  to  get  out.  The 
counterpart  of  this  picture  has  without  doubt 


seized  one  of  his  children  to  drag  her  away  from  not  infrequently  been  enacted  during  madden- 
the  beast,  and  had  hurled  her  with  such  force  ing  epidemics.  In  my  boyhood  a  familiar  fig- 
ure in  Philadelphia  was  that  of  a  gentleman 
of  the  highest  repute,  who  sat  at  the  head  of  a 
Quaker  meeting  in  which  I  spent  many  weary 
hours,  and  whom  I  watched  but  too  often  with 
the  most  earnest  wish  that  he  would  shake 
hands  with  his  fellows  and  let  us  out.  It  so 
happened  that  in  one  of  the  yellow  fever  epi- 
demics that  ravaged  this  city  in  the  later  years 
of  the  last  century,  Mr.  B took  the  disease 


against  the  opposing  wall  that  she  dropped  a 
limp  and  lifeless  mass.  In  these  dream  attacks 
the  man  did  apparently  purposive  actions,  and 
he  had  sometimes  some  after-memory  of  the 
events;  but  at  the  time  he  had  no  knowledge 
of  his  surroundings  and  no  knowledge  of  him- 
self, and,  as  oftentimes  he  could  not  be  awak- 
ened, he  did  not  respond  to  external  stimuli. 

I  shall  give  one  or  two  other  cases,  as  they 
are  very  curious  in  themselves.  They  show 
especially  that  there  may  be  loss  of  power  of 
responding  to  irritations  with  complete  know- 


and  passed  into  a  condition  of  lucid  lethargy. 
There  was  no  pulse  that  could  be  felt,  no  res- 
piration that  could  be  seen,  no  moving  of  an 


A    STUDY  OF  CONSCIOUSNESS. 


75 


eyelid,  yet  every  word  spoken  in  the  death- 
room  was  registered  in  his  consciousness.  They 
washed  the  death- sweat  from  off  him,  and 
robed  him  in  a  shroud  ;  the  touch  of  the  cold 
water  and  the  soft  embrace  of  the  folded  fab- 
ric thrilled  him  alike  with  horror,  but  he  gave  no 
sign  because  he  could  not.  Just  as  the  coffin 
lid  was  about  to  be  screwed  down,  a  supreme 
despairing  effort  caused  a  slight  movement, 
and  his  condition  was  recognized. 

If  all  our  tests  of  the  presence  of  conscious- 
ness fail,  how  do  we  know  that  anything  is 
unconscious  ?  We  do  not,  in  fact,  know  that 
anything  is  unconscious;  we  simply  believe 
that  things  are  unconscious.  Unconsciousness 
is  a  negative  condition,  and  we  only  arrive 
at  our  belief  by  a  process  of  negative  reason- 
ing based  upon  the  absence  of  certain  attri- 
butes.   A  negation  is  never  an  absolute  proof. 

Stranger  than  all  these  vagaries  of  conscious- 
ness are  those  which  cluster  around  the  mental 
condition  known  as  double  consciousness.  In 
double  consciousness  a  person  leads  two  lives. 
Let  me  cite  an  instance,  one  of  the  first  on  rec- 
ord. A  young  girl,  quick,  active,  full  of  life 
and  animation,  suddenly  complained  one  day 
of  a  very  severe  headache,  and  lay  down  on  the 
bed.  She  became  unconscious,  but  awoke  in 
a  few  moments  conscious,  although  no  longer 
the  being  that  she  had  been.  She  was  a  stranger 
in  a  strange  land.  The  father,  mother,  sisters, 
and  brothers  were  unknown.  The  results  of 
years  of  education  had  been  annihilated.  She 
knew  no  more  of  her  native  tongue  than  does 
the  child  just  born.  Where  vivacious  before, 
she  was  now  dull ;  where  apt  to  learn,  she  was 
slow ;  where  before  slow  to  learn,  she  was  now 
apt.  She  had  to  be  educated  over  again.  She 
lived  her  life,  learned  her  lessons,  until  she  could 
read  and  write,  and  knew  her  friends  once 
more.  Suddenly  the  headache  again  came  upon 
her,  and  a  deep  sleep  fell  over  her.  She  again 
woke  up  to  the  old  being ;  the  language  ac- 
quired in  infancy  had  returned  to  her ;  the  facts 
learned  through  long  years  were  with  her;  the 
acquaintances  of  the  old  time  were  her  friends. 
The  acquaintances,  the  lessons  learned,  the 
facts  and  events  of  the  second  period,  how- 
ever, she  knew  no  more.  So  she  went  on  until 
again  the  headache  returned,  the  sleep  was 
again  on  her,  and  she  awoke  again  her  second 
self.  At  the  very  page  where  her  education 
had  been  interrupted  in  the  second  state  it  was 
now  taken  up.  She  recognized  the  friends  of 
the  second  state,  but  she  knew  none  of  the  first 
state.  So  through  years  she  lived  on  her  double 
life,  now  one  person,  now  another;  each  state 
being  connected  with,  or  rather  a  continuation 
of,  the  previous  corresponding  state.  In  such 
a  case  the  lawyer  and  the  theologian  alike 
might  argue  a  long  time  concerning  personal 


responsibility,  and  the  metaphysician  labor  in 
vain  to  define  the  Ego. 

The  number  of  cases  of  double  conscious- 
ness on  record  is  not  great,  but  sufficient  to 
establish  their  existence  beyond  cavil.  In  one 
life  a  woman  has  been  quiet,  contented,  do- 
mestic, virtuous,  while  during  the  other  period 
she  has  been  full  of  wickedness  and  unchastity. 
When  in  this  case  the  consciousness  of  the 
good  state  was  forced  to  recognize  the  fruits 
of  the  evil-doing  of  the  bad  state,  the  woman 
was  dumfounded  with  horror.  These  cases 
of  double  consciousness  are  inexplicable. 
There  is,  of  course,  a  sharp  break  in  memory, 
but  there  is  more  than  this:  there  is  a  total 
change  in  character,  in  modes  of  thought,  in 
habits  of  action ;  a  new  being  seems  to  have 
sprung  into  existence. 

If  memory  alone  be  abruptly  cut  off,  the 
results  are  different.  The  sense  of  personal 
identity  which  we  all  have  depends  upon  the 
recollection  of  a  practically  unbroken  series  of 
events  connected  with  ourselves.  If  such  rec- 
ollection be  lost,  the  person  does  not  know  his 
own  identity.  Simple  abrupt  loss  of  memory 
involves  only  loss  of  the  sense  of  personal 
identity. 

During  the  Centennial  Exhibition  a  big,  burly 
Scotchman  was  brought  to  the  hospital  uncon- 
scious from  sunstroke.  I  plunged  him  into  a 
mass  of  slush  and  water  and  piled  great  masses 
of  ice  about  his  head.  As  he  gradually  strug- 
gled back  to  consciousness,  his  first  sensation 
was  that  he  was  packed  away  in  an  ice-box 
and  doomed.  When  he  came  more  fully  to 
himself,  his  first  inquiry  was,  "  Who  am  I  ?  " 
I  said,  "  Who  are  you  ?  "  This  he  could  not 
answer.  For  four  days  that  man  lay  in  the 
hospital,  apparently  perfectly  rational,  wonder- 
ing who  he  was.  During  all  this  time  his  friends 
were  searching,  and  had  detectives  looking  for 
him  all  through  Philadelphia.  At  last  his  rec- 
ollection came  back,  and  he  was  able  to  give 
his  name. 

Some  years  ago  in  one  of  our  Southern  cities 
a  man  was  seized  by  the  police  and  taken  to  a 
hospital,  where  he  told  the  following  story :  "  I 
know  nothing  who  I  am  or  where  I  came  from. 
All  I  know  is  that  I  found  myself  on  the  rail- 
road platform  a  short  time  ago.  I  then  drifted 
into  a  hall  and  heard  a  temperance  lecture ; 
goaded  into  fury  by  the  eloquence  of  the 
speaker,  I  rushed  out  and  began  to  smash  the 
windows  of  a  neighboring  drinking-saloon ;  a 
consequent  attack  on  me  by  the  roughs  led  to 
my  arrest  by  the  police  and  my  being  brought 
to  the  hospital.  That  is  all  I  know  ;  who  I  am 
I  cannot  tell."  At  the  time  of  the  publication 
of  the  report  of  this  case  the  hospital  authori- 
ties had  not  found  out  who  the  man  was. 

Clearly  related  to  the  so-called  double  con- 


76 


A    STUDY  OF  CONSCIOUSNESS. 


sciousness  is  a  mental  state  not  rarely  seen  in 
insanity.  A  case  reported  in  a  Scotch  medical 
journal  shows  very  clearly  this  relation.  Every 
other  day  the  man  was  a  typical  melancholic 
maniac,  and  every  other  day  he  was  a  perfectly 
sane,  active  business  man.  On  Monday  he 
would  sit  with  his  face  in  his  hands,  utterly  in- 
different to  his  surroundings,  overwhelmed  with 
his  weight  of  woe,  and  groaning  in  the  agony 
of  his  spirit ;  on  Tuesday  he  would  be  active 
and  alert,  attending  to  his  business  with  shrewd- 
ness and  success ;  on  Wednesday  the  apathetic 
melancholic  state  would  come  on.  On  a  well 
day  he  could  never  be  made  to  understand 
that  he  had  insane  days  •  on  an  insane  day  he 
could  not  be  made  to  believe  in  the  existence 
of  his  bright  days.  On  a  bright  Tuesday  he 
would  make  engagements  for  Wednesday,  and 
he  would  insist  that  he  was  the  same  every  day 
of  his  life.  His  inability  to  receive  evidence 
that  he  had  insane  days  was,  during  his  sane 
days,  the  only  evidence  of  mental  aberration. 

We  see  glimpses  of  a  similar  violent,  abrupt 
change  of  character  and  of  thought  in  other 
cases  of  insanity.  I  watched  through  long 
years  a  woman  suffering  with  an  apparently 
hopeless  melancholia,  whose  final  recovery  I 
have  seen  resembled  but  never  completely  par- 
alleled. She  had  been  the  most  refined  and 
elegant  of  women.  Taken  in  middle  life  with 
insanity,  for  fifteen  long  years  her  character 
was  altered,  her  demeanor  was  changed,  her 
personal  being  was  something  else  than  it  had 
been.  She  was  bowed  down  always  with  the 
terrible  woe  of  a  lost  soul.  Suddenly  one  even- 
ing that  woman  went  down  on  her  knees  and 
prayed  the  livelong  night.  She  had  an  attend- 
ant, wise  beyond  women,  who  let  her  alone. 
When  morning  came  the  lady  arose  and  said 
she  had  found  Christ.  Her  old  character 
had  returned ;  the  original  elegance  of  manner 
was  registered  in  every  act ;  the  original  deli- 
cacy of  thought  came  out  from  the  recent  al- 
most brutal  crudeness,  like  blossoms  from  a 
forest  of  wood  in  the  early  spring.  This  lasted 
for  a  few  days;  then  she  said  the  cloud  was 
coming,  and  as  the  dark  thunder-cloud  drifts 
across  the  sunny  landscape,  so  there  came  over 
her  the  shadow  of  a  great  woe.  After  days  or 
hours  she  would  suddenly  raise  her  head  and 
say, "  The  light  is  coming  " ;  and  out  of  the  dark- 
ness the  old  gentle,  persuasive  being  would  come 
forth,  with  no  traces  of  insanity  about  her. 

Before  phenomena  like  these  science  is  dumb. 
Merely  in  the  presence  of  ordinary  everyday 
consciousness,  without  voice  is  that  science 
which  can  drag  from  the  bowels  of  the  earth 


the  records  of  creation,  and  can  reach  to  the 
sun  to  weigh  and  analyze  the  power  of  the 
present.  Consciousness  is  the  one  supreme 
fact  of  the  universe,  mysterious,  inexplicable 
for  all  time,  beyond  human  understanding. 

We  take  a  little  mass  of  living  matter.  We 
call  it  protoplasm.  We  notice  that  it  is  tremu- 
lous with  self-endowed  motion.  We  find  that 
it  is  almost  structureless,  containing  only  some 
little  shapeless  granules.  We  analyze  it  in  the 
chemist's  retort,  and  it  is  carbon,  hydrogen, 
oxygen,  and  nitrogen.  And  now  we  say  we 
know  it ;  but  how  are  these  elements  grouped 
together  that  out  of  their  dead  atoms  should 
spring  molecules  endowed  with  the  greatest 
power  of  all  powers  —  the  power  of  knowing? 

The  beginning  of  a  man  is  a  speck  of 
protoplasm,  a  formless  particle.  One  such  lit- 
tle mass  is  to  us  indistinguishable  from  its  fel- 
lows; each  is  structureless,  yet  within  each  are 
the  records  of  innumerable  generations  passed, 
and  the  potentialities  of  generations  manifold 
to  come.  One  shall  develop  into  a  fool;  an- 
other into  a  man  who  shall  fill  the  world  with 
the  fame  of  his  intellectual  greatness,  or,  may- 
hap, with  noise  and  blood  and  the  misery  of 
war ;  out  of  one  shall  come  forth  a  monster  of 
wickedness,  out  of  another  a  saviour  of  man- 
kind. Yet  to  us  all  of  these  beginnings  are 
precisely  alike.  If  we  cannot,  with  the  crude, 
blundering  tools  we  call  the  microscope  and  the 
retort,  make  out  any  differences  in  these  simple 
little  masses  of  protoplasm  which  are  yet  so  dif- 
ferent, how  can  we  ever  tell  the  story  of  the 
waves  of  ruin,  distress,  and  change  which  sweep 
to  and  fro  over  the  human  brain  ?  If  we  cannot 
fathom  the  mere  speck  of  germinal  protoplasm,, 
how  can  we  ever  hope  to  know  the  changes 
of  the  most  complicated  nervous  protoplasm 
gone  mad  ? 

If  the  limitations  of  science  in  the  study  of 
our  own  organism  be  so  narrow,  how  impossi- 
ble for  it  ever  to  fathom  the  Infinite  Spirit. 
Science  does  not,  and  cannot  with  propriety, 
deny  the  existence  of  a  Supreme  Being.  The 
long,  convergent  lines  of  its  study  stretch  out 
to  a  far-off  focus  in  which  dwells  the  First  Great 
Cause ;  but  to  science  the  nature  of  this  origi- 
nating central  force  or  being  must  forever  re- 
main unknown  and  unknowable.  Science 
knows  consciousness  only  as  an  attribute  of 
matter.  To  religious  faith  alone  is  it  given  to 
apprehend  consciousness  as  an  abstraction — 
consciousness  self-existent  and  eternal,  un- 
clothed from  material  form,  but  clothed  with 
infinite  attributes  of  power  and  goodness; 
consciousness  that  is  God. 

H.  C.  Wood. 


THE    WOMEN    OF    THE    FRENCH    SALONS. 


SALONS    OF    THE    SEVENTEENTH    CENTURY. 


I. 


NSPIRE,but  do  not 
write,  said  Le  Brun 
to  women.  Whatever 
we  may  think  to-day 
of  this  rather  super- 
fluous advice,  we  can 
readily  pardon  a  man 
living  in  the  atmos- 
phere of  the  salons 
for  falling  somewhat 
under  the  special 
charm  of  their  lead- 
ers. It  is  true  that 
many  of  them  wrote,  as  they  talked,  out  of  the 
fullness  of  their  own  hearts  and  with  no  thought 
of  a  public,  but  it  was  only  an  incident  in  their 
lives,  and  could  hardly  have  brought  them 
under  the  ban  of  the  femme  auteur.  Their 
special  gift  was  to  inspire  others,  and  their  fas^ 
cination  seems  never  to  lose  its  power.  Even 
at  this  distance  they  have  a  perpetual  interest 
for  us.  It  may  be  that  the  long  perspective 
lends  them  a  certain  illusion  which  a  closer 
view  might  partly  dispel.  Something  also 
may  be  due  to  the  dark  background  against 
which  they  are  outlined.  But,  in  spite  of  time 
and  change,  they  stand  out  upon  the  pages  of 
history  glowing  with  an  ever-fresh  vitality,  and 
personifying  the  genius  of  a  civilization  of 
which  they  were  the  fairest  flower. 

The  Gallic  genius  is  eminently  a  social  one, 
but  it  is,  of  all  others,  the  most  difficult  to  re- 
produce. The  subtle  grace  of  manner  and  the 
magic  of  spoken  words  die  out  like  the  sparkle 
of  champagne.  The  flavor  is  gone  with  the 
moment.  Hence,  after  the  lapse  of  more  than 
two  centuries,  it  is  not  easy  to  catch  the  spirit 
of  the  early  salons  nor  the  nameless  attraction 
of  the  women  who  gave  tone  to  them.  They 
were  not  faultless;  indeed,  some  of  them  were 
very  faulty.  Nor  were  they  remarkable  for 
learning,  though  quite  above  the  average  of 
their  time.  But  they  had  rare  intellectual  ap- 
preciation, and  the  peculiar  social  gifts  which 
genius,  nursed  in  the  library  or  apart  from  the 
world,  is  apt  to  lack.  It  finds  its  best  expres- 
sion in  other  channels.  The  close  study  of 
books  leads  to  the  knowledge  of  man  rather 
than  of  men.  It  tends  also  towards  habits  of 
introspection,  which  are  fatal  to  clear  and  swift 
vision.    A  distinctively  social  talent  implies  the 


happy  poise  of  character  and  intellect,  the 
blending  of  many  gifts,  not  the  supremacy  of 
one.  It  implies  taste  and  versatility,  with  fine 
discrimination,  and  the  tact  to  sink  one's  own 
personality  as  well  as  to  call  out  the  best  in 
others.  It  was  this  flexibility  of  mind,  this  ac- 
tive intelligence,  tempered  with  sensibility  and 
the  native  instinct  of  pleasing,  that  distinguished 
these  Frenchwomen.  "It  is  not  sufficient  to 
be  wise,  it  is  necessary  also  to  please,"  said  the 
witty  and  penetrating  Ninon,  who  very  aptly 
condensed  the  feminine  philosophy  of  her  race. 
She  revealed,  too,  the  secret  of  their  personal 
influence  and  social  power,  the  indefinable 
something  which  is  as  difficult  to  analyze  as 
the  perfume  of  a  rose. 

It  was  to  the  refinement,  critical  taste,  and 
moral  force  of  a  rare  woman,  half  French  and 
half  Italian,  that  the  first  salons  owed  their 
origin  and  their  distinctive  character.  Hers 
was  the  "  still  small  voice "  that  spoke  so  ef- 
fectively after  the  storm  had  passed  by.  The 
religious  and  political  feuds  that  marked  the 
age  of  Luther  and  Loyola,  the  Reformation 
and  the  Leagues,  were  beginning  to  subside  in 
the  early  days  of  the  seventeenth  century.  A 
new  light  was  dawning  upon  the  world,  but 
it  was  not  yet  diffused.  Knowledge  was  still 
locked  in  the  brains  of  savants  or  in  the  dusty 
tomes  of  languages  that  were  virtually  obso- 
lete. Manners  were  coarse  and  morals  disso- 
lute beyond  credibility.  In  spite  of  the  refined 
tastes  which  had  been  brought  from  Italy  by 
Marie  de  Medicis,  the  prevailing  tone  of  the 
court  was  low  and  vicious.  The  position  of 
women  was  distinctly  inferior.  The  intellect- 
ual atmosphere  which  surrounded  the  bril- 
liant but  unscrupulous  Marguerite  de  Navarre 
had  not  been  without  its  influence,  and  there 
were  a  few,  in  the  solitude  of  the  remote  cha- 
teaux, who  had  more  or  less  love  of  literature 
as  it  came  to  them.  "  The  very  women  and 
maidens  aspired  to  this  praise  and  celestial 
manna  of  good  learning,"  said  Rabelais.  But 
they  were  mainly  limited  to  his  own  unsavory 
satires,  to  Spanish  pastorals,  licentious  poems, 
and  their  books  of  devotion.  At  this  time  the 
woman  of  pure  character  and  fine  intelligence 
appeared,  whose  position  enabled  her  to  create 
a  social  center  of  sufficient  attraction  to  focus 
the  best  intellectual  and  moral  life  of  the  age, 
and  sufficient  power  to  radiate  its  light.  But 
it  was  the  tact  and  discrimination  to  select 


77 


78 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


from  the  wealth  of  material  about  her,  and 
quietly  to  reconcile  old  traditions  with  the 
freshness  of  new  ideas,  that  especially  charac- 
terized Mme.  de  Rambouillet. 

It  was  this  richness  of  material,  the  remark- 
able variety  and  originality  of  the  women  who 
clustered  round  and  succeeded  their  graceful 
leader,  that  gave  so  commanding  an  influence 
to  the  salons  of  the  seventeenth  century.  The 
annals  of  the  time  are  full  of  them.  No  social 
life  has  been  so  carefully  studied,  no  women 
have  been  so  minutely  portrayed.  They  painted 
one  another,  and  they  painted  themselves,  with 
realistic  fidelity.  The  lights  and  shadows  are 
alike  defined.  We  know  their  joys  and  their 
sorrows,  their  passions  and  their  follies,  their 
tastes  and  their  antipathies.  Their  inmost  life 
has  been  revealed.  They  animate,  as  living 
figures,  a  whole  class  of  literature  which  they 
were  largely  instrumental  in  creating,  and  upon 
which  they  have  left  the  stamp  of  their  own 
vivid  personality.  They  appear  later  in  the 
pages  of  Cousin  and  of  Sainte-Beuve,  with  their 
radiant  features  softened  and  spiritualized  by 
the  touch  of  time.  We  rise  from  a  perusal  of 
these  chronicles  of  a  society  long  passed  away 
with  the  feeling  that  we  have  left  a  company 
of  old  friends.  We  like  to  recall  their  pleasant 
talk  of  themselves,  of  their  companions,  of  the 
lighter  happenings,  as  well  as  the  more  serious 
side,  of  an  age  which  they  have  illuminated. 
We  seem  to  see  their  faces,  note  their  manner, 
watch  the  play  of  intellect  and  feeling  while 
they  speak.  The  variety  is  infinite  and  full  of 
charm. 

Mme.  de  Sevigne  talks  upon  paper  of  the 
trifling  affairs  of  everyday  life,  adding  here 
and  there  a  sparkling  anecdote,  a  bit  of  gos- 
sip, a  delicate  characterization,  a  trenchant 
criticism,  a  dash  of  wit,  a  touch  of  feeling,  or  a 
shadow  of  profound  sadness.  All  this  is  lighted 
up  by  her  passionate  love  of  her  daughter,  and 
in  this  light  we  read  the  many-sided  life  of  her 
time  for  twenty-five  years.  Mme.  de  La  Fay- 
ette takes  the  world  more  seriously  and  replaces 
the  playful  fancy  of  her  friend  by  a  richer  vein 
of  imagination  and  sentiment.  She  sketches 
her  portrait  gracefully,  with  a  shade  of  flattery, 
perhaps ;  she  gives  us  a  clear  insight  into  the 
court  of  which  Madame  is  the  central  figure  — 
the  unfortunate  Princess  Henrietta,  whom  she 
loved  so  tenderly,  and  who  died  so  tragically 
in  her  arms.  She  writes  novels,  too  ;  not  pro- 
found studies  of  life,  but  fine  and  exquisite 
pictures  of  that  side  of  the  century  which  ap- 
pealed most  to  her  poetic  sensibility.  We  fol- 
low the  leading  characters  of  the  age  through 
the  ten-volume  romances  of  Mile,  de  Scudery, 
which  mostly  have  long  since  fallen  into  obliv- 
ion. Doubtless  the  portraits  are  a  trifle  rose-col- 
ored, but  they  accord,  in  the  main,  with  more 


veracious  history.  The  Grande  Mademoiselle 
describes  herself  and  her  friends  with  the  curious 
naivete  of  a  spoiled  child  who  thinks  its  small- 
est experiences  of  interest  to  all  the  world. 
Mme.  de  Maintenon  gives  us  another  picture, 
more  serious,  more  thoughtful,  but  illuminated 
with  flashes  of  profound  thought. 

Most  of  these  women  wrote  simply  to  amuse 
themselves  and  their  friends.  It  was  only  an- 
other mode  of  their  versatile  expression.  With 
rare  exceptions,  they  were  not  authors  con- 
sciously or  by  intention.  They  wrote  sponta- 
neously, and  often  with  reckless  disregard  of 
grammar  and  orthography.  But  the  people 
who  move  across  their  gossiping  pages  are 
alive.  The  century  passes  in  review  before  us 
as  we  read.  The  men  and  women  who  made 
its  literature  so  brilliant  and  its  salons  so  famous 
become  vivid  realities.  Prominent  among  the 
fair  faces  that  look  out  upon  us  at  every  turn, 
from  court  and  salon,  is  that  of  the  Duchesse 
de  Longueville,  sister  of  the  Great  Conde, 
and  heroine  of  the  Fronde.  Her  lovely  blue 
eyes,  with  their  dreamy  languor  and  "luminous 
awakenings,"  turn  the  heads  alike  of  men  and 
women,  of.  poet  and  critic,  of  statesman  and 
priest.  We  trace  her  brief  career  through  her 
pure  and  ardent  youth,  her  loveless  marriage, 
her  fatal  passion  for  La  Rochefoucauld,  the 
final  shattering  of  all  her  illusions ;  and  when 
at  last,  tired  of  the  world,  she  bows  her  beau- 
tiful head  in  penitent  prayer,  we  too  love  and 
forgive  her,  as  others  have  done.  Were  not 
twenty-five  years  of  suffering  and  penance  an 
ample  expiation  ?  She  was  one  of  the  three 
women  of  whom  Cardinal  Mazarin  said  that 
they  were  "  capable  of  governing  and  overturn- 
ing three  kingdoms."  The  others  were  the  in- 
triguing Duchesse  de  Chevreuse,  who  dazzled 
the  age  by  her  beauty  and  her  daring  esca- 
pades, and  the  spirituelle  Princess  Palatine.  A 
striking  figure,  too,  is  a  sister  of  the  latter,  the 
beautiful  and  gifted  Princess  Gonzague-Cleves, 
one  of  the  Jansenist  converts,  and  afterwards 
Queen  of  Poland.  We  catch  pleasant  glimpses 
of  Mme.  Deshoulieres,  beautiful  and  a  poet; 
of  Mme.  Cornuel,  of  whom  it  was  said  that 
"  every  sin  she  confessed  was  an  epigram " ; 
of  Mme.  de  Choisy,  witty  and  piquante;  of 
Mme.  de  Coulanges,  also  a  wit  and  femme 
d'esprit. 

Linked  with  these  by  a  thousand  ties  of 
sympathy  and  affection  were  the  worthy  coun- 
terparts of  Pascal  and  Arnauld,  of  Bossuet  and 
Fenelon,  the  devoted  women  who  poured  out 
their  passionate  souls  at  the  foot  of  the  cross 
and  laid  their  earthly  hopes  upon  the  altar  of 
divine  love.  We  follow  the  devout  Jacqueline 
Pascal  to  the  cloister  in  which  she  buries  her 
brilliant  youth,  to  die  at  thirty-five  of  a  wounded 
conscience  and  a  broken  heart.    Many  a  bruised 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


79 


spirit,  as  it  turns  from  the  gay  world  which  has 
palled  upon  it,  to  the  mystic  devotion  which 
touches  a  new  chord  in  its  jaded  sensibilities, 
finds  support  and  inspiration  in  the  strong  and 
fervid  sympathy  of  Jacqueline  Arnauld,  better 
known  as  Mere  Angelique  of  Port  Royal. 
This  profound  spiritual  passion  was  a  part  of 
the  intense  life  of  the  century,  which  gravitated 
from  love  and  ambition  to  the  extremes  of 
penitence  and  asceticism. 

A  multitude  of  minor  figures,  graceful  and 
poetic,  brilliant  and  spirituelle,  flit  across  the 
canvas,  leaving  the  fragrance  of  an  exquisite 
individuality,  and  tempting  one  to  linger  among 
the  versatile  women  who  toned  and  colored 
the  society  of  the  period.  But  we  have  to  do, 
at  present,  especially  with  those  who  gathered 
and  blended  this  fresh  intelligence,  delicate 
fancy,  emotional  wealth,  and  religious  fervor, 
in  a  society  which  included  such  men  as  Cor- 
neille,  Balzac,  Bossuet,  Richelieu,  Conde,  Pas- 
cal, Arnauld,  and  La  Rochefoucauld — those 
who  are  known  as  leaders  of  more  or  less  cele- 
brated salons.  Of  these,  Mme.  de  Rambouillet 
and  Mme.  de  Sable  were  among  the  best  rep- 
resentative types  of  their  time,  and  the  first 
of  the  long  line  of  social  queens  who  held  so 
potent  a  sway  for  two  centuries  through  this 
special  gift.  The  salons  of  Mile,  de  Scudery 
and  the  Grande  Mademoiselle  had  a  rery  dis- 
tinctive character  and  influence  which  give 
them  a  place  here,  but  these  women  are  known 
to  the  world  also  through  other  channels. 


ii. 

The  Hotel  de  Rambouillet  has  been  called 
the  "  cradle  of  polished  society,"  but  the  per- 
sonality of  its  hostess  is  less  familiar  than  that 
of  many  who  followed  in  her  train.  This  may 
be  partly  due  to  the  fact  that  she  left  no  rec- 
ord of  herself  on  paper.  She  aptly  embodied 
the  kind  advice  of  Le  Brun.  It  was  her  special 
talent  to  inspire  others  and  to  combine  the 
various  elements  of  a  brilliant  and  complex 
social  life.  The  rare  tact  which  enabled  her 
to  do  this  lay  largely  in  a  certain  self-efface- 
ment and  the  peculiar  harmony  of  a  nature 
which  presented  few  salient  points.  She  is  best 
represented  by  the  salon  of  which  she  was  the 
architect  and  the  animating  spirit.  But  even 
this  is  better  known  to-day  through  its  faults 
than  its  virtues.  It  is  but  just  to  clear  off  a  little 
dust  from  its  memorials  and  to  paint  in  fresh 
colors  one  who  played  so  important  a  role  in 
the  history  of  literature  and  manners. 

Catherine  de  Vivonne  was  born  at  Rome  in 
1588.  Her  father,  the  Marquis  dePisani,  was 
French  ambassador,  and  her  mother  belonged 
to  the  old  Roman  family  of  Savelli.  Married 
at    sixteen  to  the   Count  d'Angennes,  after- 


wards Marquis  de  Rambouillet,  she  was  intro- 
duced to  the  world  at  the  gay  court  of  Henry 
IV.  But  the  coarse  and  depraved  manners 
which  ruled  there  were  altogether  distasteful 
to  her  delicate  and  fastidious  nature.  At  twenty 
she  retired  from  these  brilliant  scenes  of  gilded 
vice  and  began  to  gather  round  her  the  co- 
terie of  choice  spirits  which,  later,  became  so 
famous. 

Filled  with  the  poetic  ideals  and  artistic  tastes 
which  had  been  nourished  in  a  thoughtful  and 
elegant  seclusion,  it  seems  to  have  been  the 
aim  of  her  life  to  give  them  outward  expres- 
sion. Her  mind,  which  inherited  the  subtle 
refinement  of  the  land  of  her  birth,  had  taken 
its  color  from  the  best  Italian  and  Spanish  lit- 
erature, but  she  was  in  no  sense  a  learned 
woman.  She  was  going  to  study  Latin  once, 
in  order  to  read  Virgil,  but  was  prevented  by 
ill-health.  It  is  clear,  however,  that  she  had  a 
great  diversity  of  gifts,  with  a  basis  of  rare 
good  sense  and  moral  elevation.  "  She  was 
revered,  adored,"  writes  Mme.  de  Motteville; 
"  a  model  of  courtesy,  wisdom,  knowledge, 
and  sweetness."  She  is  always  spoken  of  in 
the  chronicles  of  her  time  as  a  loyal  wife, 
a  devoted  mother;  the  benefactor  of  the 
suffering,  and  the  sympathetic  adviser  of  au- 
thors and  artists.  Segrais  says  that  she  was 
"  agreeable  and  entertaining,  a  good  friend, 
and  gracious  to  every  one."  We  are  told  that 
she  was  beautiful,  but  we  only  know  that  her 
face  was  fair  and  delicate,  her  figure  tall  and 
graceful,  and  her  manner  stately  and  digni- 
fied. Her  Greek  love  of  beauty  expressed  itself 
in  all  her  appointments.  The  unique  and  orig- 
inal architecture  of  her  hotel, —  which  was  mod- 
eled after  her  own  designs, —  the  arrangement 
of  her  salon,  the  pursuits  she  chose,  and  the 
amusements  she  planned,  were  all  a  part  of  her 
own  artistic  nature.  It  was  shown  also,  in  her 
code  of  etiquette,  which  imposed  a  fine  cour- 
tesy upon  the  members  of  her  coterie  and  in- 
fused into  life  the  spirit  of  politeness,  which  one 
of  her  countrymen  has  called  the  "  flower  of 
humanity."  But  this  esthetic  quality  was  tem- 
pered with  a  clear  judgment,  and  a  keen  ap- 
preciation of  merit  and  talent,  which  led 
her  to  gather  there  many  not  "  to  the  manner 
born,"  who  sometimes  jarred  upon  the  tastes 
and  prejudices  of  her  noble  guests.  In  some 
cases  she  delicately  aided  a  needy  man  of  let- 
ters to  present  a  respectable  appearance  in  her 
salon. 

Adding  to  this  spirit  of  noble  independence 
the  prestige  of  rank,  beauty,  and  fortune;  a 
temper  of  mingled  sweetness  and  strength  ; 
versatile  gifts  controlled  by  an  admirable  rea- 
son ;  a  serene  and  tranquil  character ;  a  play- 
ful humor,  free  from  the  caprices  of  a  too 
exacting  sensibility;  a  perfect  savoir-faire,  and 


8o 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


we  have  the  unusual  combination  which  en- 
abled her  to  hold  her  sway  for  so  many  years 
without  a  word  of  censure  from  even  the  most 
scandal-loving  of  chroniclers. 

"We  have  sought  in  vain,"  writes  Cousin, 
"for  that  which  is  rarely  lacking  in  any  life 
of  equal  or  even  less  brilliancy,  some  calumny 
or  scandal,  an  equivocal  word,  or  the  lightest 
epigram.  We  have  found  only  a  concert  of 
warm  eulogies  which  have  run  through  many 
generations.  She  has  disarmed  Tallemant  him- 
self. This  caricaturist  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury has  been  pitiless  towards  the  habitues  of 
her  illustrious  house,  but  he  praises  her  with  a 
warmth  which  is  very  impressive  from  such  a 
source." 

The  salon  bleu  has  become  historic.  This 
"  sanctuary  of  the  Temple  of  Athene,"  as  it 
was  called  in  the  stilted  language  of  the  day, 
has  been  illuminated  for  us  by  the  rank,  beauty, 
and  talent  of  the  Augustan  age  of  France. 
We  are  more  or  less  familiar  with  even  the 
minute  details  of  the  spacious  room,  whose 
long  windows  opened  into  the  little  garden 
and  let  in  a  flood  of  golden  sunlight.  We 
picture  to  ourselves  its  draperies  of  blue  and 
gold,  its  curious  cabinets,  its  choice  works  of 
art,  its  Venetian  lamps,  and  its  crystal  vases 
always  filled  with  flowers  that  scattered  the 
perfume  of  spring. 

It  was  here  that  Mme.  de  Rambouillet  held 
her  court  for  nearly  thirty  years,  beginning 
about  1620.  She  sought  to  gather  all  that  was 
most  distinguished,  whether  for  wit,  beauty, 
talent,  or  birth,  into  an  atmosphere  of  refine- 
ment and  simple  elegance  which  should  tone 
down  all  discordant  elements  and  raise  life  to 
the  level  of  a  fine  art.  There  was  a  strongly 
intellectual  flavor  in  the  amusements,  as  well 
as  in  the  discussions  of  this  salon,  and  the 
place  of  honor  was  given  to  genius,  learning, 
and  good  manners,  rather  than  to  rank.  But 
it  was  by  no  means  purely  literary.  The  ex- 
clusive spirit  of  the  old  aristocracy,  with  its 
hauteur  and  its  lofty  patronage,  found  itself 
face  to  face  with  fresh  ideals.  The  position 
of  the  hostess  enabled  her  to  break  the  tradi- 
tional barriers  and  form  a  society  upon  a  new 
basis,  but,  in  spite  of  the  mingling  of  classes 
hitherto  separated,  the  dominant  life  was  that 
of  the  noblesse.  Women  of  rank  gave  the  tone 
and  made  the  laws.  Their  code  of  etiquette 
was  severe.  They  aimed  to  combine  the  graces 
of  Italy  with  the  chivalry  of  Spain.  The  model 
man  must  have  a  keen  sense  of  honor  and  wit 
without  pedantry ;  he  must  be  brave,  heroic, 
generous,  gallant,  but  he  must  also  possess 
good  breeding  and  gentle  courtesy.  The  coarse 
passions  which  had  disgraced  the  court  were 
refined  into  subtle  sentiments,  and  women 
were  raised  upon  a  pedestal  to  be  respectfully 


and  platonically  adored.  In  this  reaction  from 
extreme  license  familiarity  was  forbidden,  and 
language  was  subjected  to  a  critical  censor- 
ship. 

"  Do  you  remember,"  said  Flechier,  many 
years  later,  in  his  funeral  oration  on  the  death 
of  the  Duchesse  de  Montausier,  "  the  salons 
which  are  still  regarded  with  so  much  venera- 
tion, where  the  spirit  was  purified,  where  virtue 
was  revered  under  the  name  of  the  incompara- 
ble Arthenice;  where  people  of  merit  and 
quality  assembled  who  composed  a  select  court, 
numerous  without  confusion,  modest  without 
constraint,  learned  without  pride,  polished 
without  affectation  ?  " 

Whatever  allowance  we  may  be  disposed  to 
make  for  the  friendship  of  the  eminent  Abbe, 
he  spoke  with  the  authority  of  personal  know- 
ledge, and  at  a  time  when  the  memories  of  the 
Hotel  de  Rambouillet  were  still  fresh.  It  is 
true  that  some  of  those  who  belonged  to  the 
professed  school  of  morals  were  not  free  from 
grave  errors.  But  we  cannot  judge  by  the 
Anglo-Saxon  standards  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury the  faults  of  an  age  in  which  a  Ninon 
de  L'Enclos  lives  on  terms  of  veiled  intimacy 
with  a  strait-laced  Mme.  de  Maintenon,  and 
receives  in  her  salon  women  of  as  spotless  repu- 
tation as  Mme.  de  La  Fayette  and  the  much- 
forgiving  Mme.  de  Sevigne.  Measured  from 
the  level  of  their  time,  the  lives  of  the  Ram- 
bouillet coterie  stand  out  white  and  shining. 
The  pure  character  of  the  Marquise  and  her 
daughters  was  above  reproach,  and  they  were 
quoted  as  "  models  whom  all  the  world  cited, 
all  the  world  admired,  and  every  one  tried  to 
imitate."  To  be  a  precieuse  was  in  itself  an 
evidence  of  good  conduct. 

"  This  salon  was  a  resort  not  only  for  all  the 
fine  wits,  but  for  every  one  who  frequented  the 
court,"  writes  Mme.  de  Motteville.  One  is 
tempted  to  wonder  if  some  of  these  noble  cava- 
liers and  high-born  women  did  not  yawn  over 
the  learned  discourse  of  Corneille  and  Balzac 
about  the  Romans,  the  endless  disputes  about 
rival  sonnets,  and  the  long  discussions  about 
the  value  of  a  word.  "  Doubtless  it  is  a  very 
beautiful  poem,  but  also  very  tiresome,"  says 
Mme.  de  Longueville,  after  listening  to  the 
scholarly  Chapelain's  dreary  "  Pucelle."  It  is 
before  the  Fronde,  and  she  is  yet  content  with 
the  role  of  a  reigning  beauty,  though  not  at 
all  averse  to  the  clever  and  refined  entertain- 
ments of  this  favorite  salon,  where  she  is  a  fre- 
quent and  honored  guest. 

But  its  diversions  are  by  no  means  always 
grave  or  literary.  Life  is  represented  on  many 
sides,  and  perhaps  this  is  one  secret  of  its  wide 
influence.  If  at  one  time  Corneille  reads  his 
last  drama,  or  Bossuet,  then  a  boy  of  seven- 
teen, gives  them  an  impromptu  sermon,  at  an- 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


81 


other  time  they  improvise  sonnets  and  madri- 
gals, or  enjoy  a  song  from  the  beautiful  Ange- 
lique  Paulet,  who  has  a  marvelous  voice  and 
plays  the  lute  skillfully.  She  has  also  a  special 
talent  for  the  little  comedies  with  which  they 
often  amuse  themselves.  They  read  the  "Astree" 
of  D'Urfe,  the  romances  of  Calprenede,  and  the 
sentimental  "  Bergeries  "  of  Racan,  who  sighs 
at  a  distance  over  the  fascinations  of  the  digni- 
fied Marquise.  Charmed  with  these  Arcadian 
pictures,  they  try  to  reproduce  the  Strephons 
and  Florimels  making  love  in  pastoral  fash- 
ion with  pipe  and  lute.  The  versatile  hostess 
has  a  taste,  too,  for  mythologic  fetes,  in  which 
they  drape  themselves  as  antique  gods  and 


which  was  witty  enough  to  have  had  the  de- 
sired effect. 

This  famous  bel  esprit  played  a  very  promi- 
nent part  here.  His  role  was  to  amuse,  but 
his  small  vanities  strike  one  much  more  viv- 
idly, at  this  distance,  than  the  wit  which  flashed 
out  with  the  moment,  or  the  vers  de  societe 
upon  which  his  fame  rests.  He  owed  his  social 
success  to  a  rather  high-flown  love-letter  which 
he  evidently  thought  too  good  to  be  lost  to 
the  world.  He  sent  it  to  a  friend,  who  had  it 
printed  and  circulated.  What  the  lady  thought 
of  it  does  not  appear,  but  it  made  the  fortune 
of  the  poet.  "  If  he  were  one  of  us,  he  would 
be  unbearable,"  said  the  Great  Conde.    But 


COURTYARD    OF    THE     HOTEL    RAMBOUILLET. 


goddesses.  Her  amiable  and  spirituelle  daugh- 
ter Julie  is  an  able  assistant,  and  wins  the  love 
alike  of  men  and  women.  Malherbe  has  given 
to  Mme.  de  Rambouillet  the  romantic  name 
of  Arthenice,  and  forthwith  the  other  members 
of  her  coterie  assume  some  nom  de  Farnasse 
by  which  they  are  familiarly  known.  Some- 
times they  amuse  their  idle  hours  with  practi- 
cal jokes  and  surprises  which  are  more  laugh- 
able than  dignified.  The  manners  of  the  time 
are  illustrated  by  a  curious  anecdote  of  Voi- 
ture.  They  were  playing  a  game  one  day,  in 
which  he  was  condemned  to  pay  a  forfeit  by 
saying  something  to  make  them  all  laugh.  If 
he  failed  to  do  so  at  once,  he  was  to  be  tossed 
in  a  counterpane  as  many  minutes  as  he  made 
them  wait.  He  evidently  failed,  and  wrote  to 
Mile,  de  Bourbon  an  account  of  the  affair 
Vol.  XL.— ii. 


his  caprices  were  tolerated,  and  he  was  petted 
and  spoiled  to  the  end. 

There  is  a  warm  human  side  to  this  daily 
intercourse,  with  its  sweet  and  gracious  cour- 
tesies. The  women  who  discuss  grave  ques- 
tions and  make  or  unmake  literary  reputations 
in  the  salon  are  capable  of  rare  sacrifices  and 
friendships  that  seem  quixotic  in  their  devo- 
tion. Cousin,  who  has  studied  them  so  care- 
fully and  so  sympathetically,  has  saved  from 
oblivion  many  private  letters  which  give  us 
pleasant  glimpses  of  their  everyday  life.  As 
we  listen  to  their  quiet  exchange  of  confidences 
we  catch  the  smile  that  plays  over  the  light 
badinage,  or  the  tear  that  lurks  in  the  tender 
words. 

A  little  son  of  Mme.  de  Rambouillet  has 
the  small-pox,  and  his  sister  Julie  shares  the 


82 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


care  of  him  with  her  mother  when  every  one 
else  has  fled.  At  his  death  she  devotes  her- 
self to  her  friend  Mme.  de  Longueville,  who, 
soon  after  her  marriage,  is  attacked  with  the 
same  dreaded  malady.  Mme.  de  Sable  is  afraid 
of  contagion  and  refuses  to  see  Mile,  de  Ram- 
bouillet,  who  writes  her  a  characteristic  letter. 


ANGELIQUE  PAULET.   (FROM  AN  ENGRAVING  ON  STEEL.) 

Mile,  de  Chalais  [dame  de  compagnie  to  the  Mar- 
quise] will  please  read  this  letter  to  Mme.  la  Mar- 
quise out  of  a  draught. 

Madame,  I  cannot  begin  my  treaty  with  you  too 
early,  for  I  am  sure  that,  between  the  first  proposi- 
tion made  to  me  to  see  you  and  the  conclusion,  you 
will  have  so  many  reflections  to  make,  so  many 
physicians  to  consult,  and  so  many  fears  to  surmount, 
that  I  shall  have  full  leisure  to  air  myself.  The  con- 
ditions which  1  offer  are,  not  to  visit  you  until  I 
have  been  three  days  absent  from  the  Hotel  de  Conde 
[where  Mme.  de  Longueville  was  ill],  to  change  all 
of  my  garments,  to  choose  a  cold  day,  not  to  ap- 
proach you  within  four  paces,  not  to  sit  down  upon 
more  than  one  seat.  You  may  also  have  a  great  fire 
in  your  room,  burn  juniper  in  the  four  corners,  sur- 
round yourself  with  imperial  vinegar,  with  rue  and 
wormwood.  If  you  can  feel  safe  under  these  condi- 
tions without  my  cutting  off  my  hair,  I  swear  to 
you  to  execute  them  religiously  ;  and  if  you  want 
examples  to  fortify  you,  I  can  tell  you  that  the 
Queen  saw  M.  Chaudebonne  when  he  came  from 
Mme.  de  Longueville's  room,  and  that  Mme.  d'Ai- 
guillon,  who  has  good  taste  and  is  free  from  reproach 
on  such  points,  has  just  sent  me  word  that  if  I 
did  not  go  to  see  her,  she  would  come  to  see  me. 

Mme.  de  Sable  retorts,  in  a  satirical  vein, 
that  she  is  too  well  instructed  in  the  needed 
precautions  to  be  quite  free  from  the  charge 
of  timidity,  adding  the  hope  that,  since  she  un- 
derstands the  danger,  she  will  take  better  care 
of  herself  in  the  future. 

This  calls  forth  another  letter,  in  which  Mile. 


de  Rambouillet  says  that  "  one  never  fears  to 
see  those  whom  one  loves,"  adding,  "  I  would 
have  given  much,  for  your  sake,  if  this  had  not 
occurred."  She  closes  this  spicy  correspon- 
dence, however,  with  a  very  affectionate  letter 
which  calms  the  ruffled  temper  of  her  sensitive 
companion. 

Mme.  de  Sable  has  another  friend,  Mile. 
d'Attichy,  who  figures  quite  prominently  in  the 
social  life  of  a  later  period  as  the  Comtesse 
de  Maure.  This  lady  was  just  leaving  Paris  to 
visit  her  in  the  country,  when  she  learned  that 
Mme.  de  Sable  had  written  to  Mme.  de  Ram- 
bouillet that  she  could  conceive  of  no  greater 
happiness  than  to  pass  her  life  alone  with  her 
daughter,  Julie  d'Angennes.  This  touches  her 
sensibilities  so  keenly  that  she  changes  her  plans 
and  refuses  to  visit  one  who  could  find  her 
pleasure  away  from  her.  Mme.  de  Sable  tries 
to  appease  her ;  with  what  result  may  be  seen 
in  the  reply,  which  I  am  tempted  to  give  in  full. 

I  have  seen  this  letter  in  which  you  tell  me  there  is 
so  much  galimatias,  and  I  assure  you  I  have  not  found 
any  at  all.  On  the  contrary,  I  find  everything  very 
clearly  expressed,  and  among  others  one  which  is 
too  plain  for  my  satisfaction.  You  have  said  to  Mme. 
de  Rambouillet  that,  if  you  tried  to  imagine  a  per- 
fectly happy  life  for  yourself,  it  would  be  to  pass  it 
all  alone  with  Mile,  de  Rambouillet.  You  know  that 
no  one  can  be  better  convinced  than  I  am  of  her 
merit,  but  I  confess  that  it  has  not  prevented  me 
from  being  surprised  that  you  could  have  a  thought 
which  did  so  great  an  injury  to  our  friendship.  As 
to  believing  that  you  said  this  to  one,  and  wrote  it  to 
the  other,  simply  to  pay  them  an  agreeable  compli- 
ment, I  have  too  high  an  esteem  for  your  courage 
to  imagine  that  complaisance  would  lead  you  thus 
to  betray  the  sentiments  of  your  heart,  especially  on 
a  subject  in  which,  as  they  were  unfavorable  to  me,  I 
think  you  would  have  the  more  reason  concealing 
them  ;  the  affection  which  I  have  for  you  being  so 
well  known  to  every  one,  and  above  all  to  Mile,  de 
Rambouillet,  so  that  I  doubt  whether  she  will  not 
be  more  sensible  of  the  wrong  you  have  done  me 
than  of  the  advantage  you  have  given  her.  The 
accident  of  this  letter  falling  into  my  hands  has 
forcibly  reminded  me  of  those  lines  of  Bertaut: 

Malheureuse  est  l'ignorance, 
Et  plus  malheureux  le  savoir. 

Having  thus  lost  a  confidence  which  alone  rendered 
life  supportable  to  me,  I  cannot  think  of  taking  the 
journey  so  much  anticipated  ;  for  there  would  be 
no  propriety  in  traveling  sixty  leagues  at  this  season, 
in  order  to  burden  you  with  a  person  so  little  suited 
to  you,  that  after  years  of  a  passion  without  parallel, 
you  cannot  help  thinking  that  the  greatest  pleasure 
would  consist  in  passing  life  without  her.  I  return 
then  into  my  solitude  to  examine  the  defects  which 
cause  me  so  much  unhappiness,  and  unless  1  can 
correct  them,  I  should  have  less  joy  than  confusion 
in  seeing  you. 

How  this  affair  was  adjusted  does  not  ap- 
pear, but  as  they  remained  devoted  friends 
through  life,  unable  to  live  apart,  or  pass  a  day 


CORNEILLE     READING     "  1'OLYEUCTE  "     AT    THE     HOTEL     KAMUOUII.LET. 


84 


THE    WOMEN  OF   THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


DRAWN  BY   KEN  YON   COX- 

JACQUELINE    ARNAULD  —  MERE    ANGELIQUE.       (FROM     AN 

happily  without  seeing  each  other,  it  evidently 
did  not  end  in  a  serious  alienation.  It  suggests, 
however,  a  delicacy  and  exaltation  of  feeling 
which  we  are  apt  to  accord  only  to  love,  and 
which  go  far  towards  disproving  the  verdict 
of  Montaigne,  that  "  the  soul  of  a  woman  is 
not  firm  enough  for  so  durable  a  tie  as  friend- 
ship." 

We  like  to  dwell  upon  these  inner  phases  of 
a  famous  and  powerful  coterie,  not  only  be- 
cause they  bring  before  us  so  vividly  the  living, 
moving,  thinking,  loving  women  who  composed 
it,  letting  us  into  their  intimate  life  with  its 
quiet  shadings,  its  fantastic  humors,  and  its 
wayward  caprices,  but  because  they  lead  us  to 
the  fountain-head  of  a  new  form  of  literary 
expression.  The  formal  letters  of  Balzac  had 
been  among  the  early  entertainments  of  the 
Hotel  de  Rambouillet,  and  Voiture  had  a 
witty  or  sentimental  note  for  every  occasion. 
Mile,  de  Scudery  held  a  ready  pen,  and  was 
in  the  habit  of  noting  down,  in  her   letters 


to  absent  friends,  the  con- 
versation, which  ran  over 
a  great  variety  of  topics, 
from  the  gossip  of  the 
moment  to  the  gravest 
questions.  There  was  no 
morning  journal  with  its 
columns  of  daily  news,  no 
magazine  with  its  sketches 
of  contemporary  life,  and 
these  private  letters  were 
passed  from  one  to  another 
to  be  read  and  discussed. 
The  craze  for  clever  letters 
spread.  Conversations 
literally  overflowed  upon 
paper.  A  romantic  ad- 
venture, a  bit  of  scandal, 
a  drawing-room  incident, 
or  a  personal  pique  was 
a  fruitful  theme.  Every- 
body aimed  to  excel  in  an 
art  which  brought  a  certain 
prestige.  These  letters, 
which  had  their  brief  day, 
were  often  gathered  into 
little  volumes,  most  of 
which  have  long  since 
disappeared,  or  found 
burial  in  the  dust  of  old 
libraries,  from  which  they 
are  occasionally  exhumed 
to  throw  fresh  light  upon 
some  forgotten  nook  and 
byway  of  an  age  whose 
habits  and  manners,  virtues 
and  follies,  are  so  faithfully 
recorded.  A  few  still  sur- 
vive, and  sometimes  an 
old  portfolio  reveals  a  piquant  private  corre- 
spondence. The  finest  outcome  of  this  pre- 
vailing taste  was  Mme.  de  Sevigne,  who  still 
reigns  as  the  queen  of  graceful  letter-writers. 
Although  her  maturity  belongs  to  a  later 
period,  she  was  familiar  with  the  Rambou- 
illet circle  in  her  youth,  and  inherited  its  best 
spirit. 

The  charm  of  this  literature  is  its  spontane- 
ity. It  has  no  ulterior  aim,  but  delights  in 
simple  expression.  These  people  write  because 
they  like  to  write.  They  are  original  because 
they  sketch  from  life.  There  is  something  naive 
and  fresh  in  their  vivid  pictures.  They  give 
us  all  the  accessories.  They  tell  us  how  they 
lived,  how  they  dressed,  how  they  thought, 
how  they  acted.  They  talk  of  their  plans,  their 
loves,  and  their  private  piques,  with  the  same 
easy  grace.  They  condense  for  us  their  worldly 
philosophy,  their  sentiments,  and  their  experi- 
ence. All  this  is  done  with  a  lightness  of  touch 
that  is  as  fascinating  as  it  is  inimitable. 


JANUARY   -      "890« 
OIL    PORTRAIT.) 


THE    WOMEN  OF   THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


85 


The  Hotel  de  Rambouillet  was  the  social 
power  of  the  first  half  of  the  century,  "  It  was 
a  rendezvous,"  writes  Saint-Simon,  "  of  all  that 
was  most  distinguished  in  condition  and  in 
merit ;  a  tribunal  with  which  it  was  necessary  to 
count,  and  whose  decisions  upon  theconduct  and 
reputation  of  people  of  the  court  and  the  world 
have  great  weight."  It  sustained  Corneille 
against  the  persecutions  of  Richelieu,  and  num- 
bered among  its  habitues  the  founders  of  the 
Academie  Frangaise,  who  continued  the  criti- 
cal reforms  in  language  which  were  begun 
there.  In  an  age  of  political  espionage  it 
maintained  its  position  and  its  dignity.  Car- 
dinal Richelieu  feared  its  influence,  and  sent 
to  the  Marquise  a  request  to  report  what  was 
said  of  him  in  her  salon.  She  replied,  with  con- 
summate tact,  that  they  were  so  strongly  per- 
suaded of  the  consideration  and  friendship  she 
had  for  his  Eminence,  that  no  one  would  have 
the  temerity  to  speak  ill  of  him  in  her  presence. 

In  1648  the  troubles  of  the  Fronde,  which 
grew  out  of  petty  social  rivalries,  scattered  its 
most  noted  guests.  Voiture  was  dead.  The 
only  remaining  son  of  Mme.  de  Rambouillet 
had  fallen  in  battle.  Of  her  five  daughters,  three 
were  abbesses  of  convents. 
One  of  these  was  the  source  of 
great  trouble  to  her  family 
through  her  eccentricities  and 
violent  temper.  Julie,  whose 
talent  and  amiability  made  her 
a  conspicuous  figure  in  her 
day,  was  at  last  the  wife  of 
the  Due  de  Montausier,  who 
had  been  her  devoted  lover  for 
thirteen  years.  Ill-health,  as 
well  as  sorrow,  had  laid  its 
hand  upon  the  Marquise.  She 
still  received  her  friends  in  her 
ruelle,  but  the  brilliant  com- 
pany was  dispersed,  and  the 
glory  of  the  salon  bleu  was 
gone.  Its  freshness  had  faded 
with  its  draperies  of  blue  and 
gold.  She  lived  until  1665, 
but  successive  griefs  darkened 
her  closing  years.  Her  hus- 
band, of  whom  we  know  lit- 
tle save  that  he  was  sent  on 
various  foreign  missions  and 
"  loved  his  wife  always  as  a 
lover,"  died  in  1652.  She  also 
lost  her  youngest  daughter, 
Angelique,  wife  of  the  Comte 
de  Grignan,  who  was  after- 
wards the  son-in-law  of  Mme. 
de  Sevigne. 

There  is  something  infinitely 
pathetic  in  the  epitaph  this 
much-loved     and     successful 


woman  wrote    for  herself  when  she  felt  that 
the  end  was  near: 

Ici-git  Arthe'nice,  exempte  des  rigueurs 
Dont  la  rigueur  du  sort  l'a  toujours  poursuivie. 
Et,  si  tu  veux,  passant,  compter  tous  ses  malheurs, 
Tu  n'auras  qu'a  compter  les  moments  de  sa  vie. 

The  spirit  of  unrest  is  there  beneath  the 
calm  exterior.  It  may  be  some  hidden  wound, 
it  may  be  only  the  old,  old  weariness,  the  in- 
evitable burden  of  the  race.  "  My  God,"  wrote 
Mme.  de  Maintenon  in  the  height  of  her 
worldly  success,  "how  sad  life  is;  I  pass  my 
days  without  other  consolation  than  the  thought 
that  death  will  end  it  all." 

But  Mme.de  Rambouillet  haddone  her  work, 
and  it  was  left  for  others  to  continue.  She  found 
a  language  crude  and  inelegant,  manners  coarse 
and  licentious,  morals  dissolute  and  vicious. 
Her  influence  was  at  its  height  in  the  age  of 
Corneille  and  Descartes,  and  she  lived  almost 
to  the  culmination  of  the  era  of  Racine  and 
Moliere,  of  Boileau  and  La  Bruyere,  of  Bos- 
suet  and  Fenelon,  the  era  of  simple  and  puri- 
fied language,  of  refined  and  stately  manners, 
and  of  at  least  outward  respect  for  morality. 


JULIE    d'aNGENNKS,     DUCHESSE     DE     MONTAUSIER.       (FROM    AN     ETCHING     IN      I'llli 
"GUIRLANDE    DE    JULIE  "     OK    OCTAVE    UZANNE.) 


86 


THE    WOMEN   OF   THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


ANTOINETTE     DE    LIGIER    DE     LA     GARDE  —  MME.     DESHOULIERES.       (FROM     THE    OIL    PORTRAIT    BY     PIERRE    MIGNARD.) 


To  these  results  she  very  largely  contributed. 
She  was  a  woman  of  fine  ideals  and  exalted 
standards,  possessing  in  an  eminent  degree 
the  purity  of  character,  delicacy  of  thought, 
and  urbanity  of  manner  which  she  exacted  of 
others.  But  all  her  gifts  were  merged  into  that 
of  holding  a  salon.  Here  she  was  without  a 
rival. 

It  is  true  there  was  a  reverse  side  to  the 
picture.  Traditions  are  strong,  and  people  do 
not  readily  adapt  themselves  to  new  models. 
Character  and  manners  are  a  growth.  That 
which  is  put  on  and  not  ingrained  is  apt  to 


lack  the  true  balance  and  proportion.  Hence 
it  is  not  strange  that  this  new  order  of  things 
resulted  in  many  crudities  and  exaggerations. 
Spanish  chivalry  doubtless  degenerated  into  a 
thousand  absurdities  —  from  which  the  Hotel 
de  Rambouillet  was  not  quite  free.  It  was  the 
fashion  to  talk  in  the  language  of  hyperbole. 
Sighing  lovers  were  consumed  with  artificial 
fires,  and  ready  to  die  with  affected  languors. 
Like  the  old  poets  of  Provence,  whose  spirit 
they  caught  and  whose  phrases  they  repeated, 
they  were  dying  of  love  they  did  not  feel.  The 
eyes  of  Phyllis  extinguished  the  sun.    The  very 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


87 


nightingales  expired  of  jealousy  on  hearing  the  expression,   simplicity  to    language.     Women 

voice  of  Angelique.  of  rank  and  recognized   ability  imposed  the 

It  is  not  worth  while  to  criticize  too  severely  laws  of  good  taste,  and  their  vivid  imagina- 

the  plumed  knights  who  took  the  heroes  of  tions  changed  lifeless  abstractions  into  some- 

Corneille  as  models,  played  the  harmless  lover,  thing  concrete  and  artistic.     Men  of  letters, 

and  paid  the  tribute  of  chivalric  deference  to  who  had  held  an  inferior  and  dependent  posi- 

women.      The  strained  politeness  may  have  tion,    were    penetrated    with    the    spirit  of  a 

been  artificial,  and  the  forms  of  chivalry  very  refined  society,  while  men  of  the  world,  in  a 

likely  outran  the  feeling,  but  they  served  at  circle  where  wit  and  literary  skill  were  distinc- 


least  to  keep  it  alive,  while  the  false  plato 
nism  and  ultra-refined  sentiment  were  simply 
moral  protests  against  the  coarse  vices  of  the 
time.  The  prudery  which  reached  a  satirical 
climax  in  the  Madelon  and  Cathos  of  Mo- 
liere  was  a  natural  reaction  from  the  sensuality 
of  a  Marguerite  and  a  Gabrielle. 
Mme.  de  Rambouillet  saw  and 
enjoyed  the  first  performance  of 
"  Les  Precieuses  Ridicules,"  nor 
does  it  appear  that  she  was  at  all 
disturbed  by  the  keen  satire  which 
has  fallen  so  unjustly  upon  her 
salon.  Moliere  himself  disclaims 
all  intention  of  attacking  the  true 
precieuse,  but  the  world  is  not 
given  to  fine  discrimination,  and 
the  true  suffers  from  the  blow  that 
is  aimed  at  the  false.  As  he  be- 
longed to  the  lax  and  Epicurean 
circles  of  Ninon  and  Saint- Evre- 
mond,  Mme.  de  la  Sabliere  and 
La  Fontaine,  it  is  not  unlikely 
that  he  shared  their  well-known 
prejudices  against  the  power- 
ful and  fastidious  coterie  whose 
very  virtues  furnished  many 
salient  points  for  his  scathing 
wit. 

But  whatever  affectations  may 
have  grown  out  of  the  new  code 
of  manners,  it  had  a  more  lasting 
result  in  the  fine  and  stately 
courtesy  which  pervaded  the  later 
social  life  of  the  century.  We  owe, 
too,  a  profound  gratitude  to  those 
women  who  exacted  and  were 
able  to  command  a  consideration 
which,  with  many  shades  and 
variations,  has  been  left  as  a  per- 
manent heritage  to  their  sex.  We 
may  smile  at  some  of  their  follies. 
Have  we  not  our  own,  which  some 
nineteenth-century  Moliere  may  serve  up  for 
the  delight  and  possible  misleading  of  future 
generations  ? 

It  is  difficult  to  estimate  the  impulse  given 
to  intelligence  and  literary  taste  by  this 
breaking  up  of  old  social  crystallizations. 
What  the  savant  had  learned  in  his  closet 
passed  more  or  less  into  current  coin.  Con- 
versation gave  point  to  thought,  clearness  to 


tions,  began  to  aspire  to  the  role  of  a  bel esprit, 
to  pride  themselves  upon  some  intellectual  gift, 
and  the  power  to  write  without  labor  and 
without  pedantry,  as  became  their  rank.  Many 
of  them  lacked  seriousness,  dealing  mainly 
with  delicate  fancies  and  trivial  incidents,  but 


ANNE-GENEVIEVE    DE     BOURBON,  DUCHESSE    DE     LONGUEVILLE. 
AN     ENGRAVING    AFTER    THE     PORTRAIT     BY    IUIGNARD.) 


(FROM 


pleasures  of  the  intellect  and  taste  became  the 
fashion.  Burlesques  and  chansons  disputed 
the  palm  with  madrigals  and  sonnets.  A  neatly 
turned  epigram  or  a  clever  letter  made  a 
social  success. 

Perhaps  it  was  not  a  school  for  genius  of 
the  first  order.  Society  favors  graces  of  form 
and  expression  rather  than  profound  and  se- 
rious thought.    No  Homer,  nor  yEschylus,  nor 


S8 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


Milton,  nor  Dante,  is  the  outgrowth  of  such  a 
soil.  The  prophet,  or  seer,  shines  by  the  light 
of  his  own  soul.  He  deals  with  problems  and 
emotions  that  lie  deep  in  the  pulsing  heart  of 
humanity,  but  he  does  not  best  interpret  his 
generation.  It  is  the  man  living  upon  the 
level  of  his  time,  and  finding  his  inspiration 
in  the  world  of  events,  who  reflects  its  life, 
marks  its  currents,  and  registers  its  changes. 
Matthew  Arnold  has  aptly  said  that  "the 
qualities  of  genius  are  less  transferable  than 
the  qualities  of  intelligence,  less  can  be  imme- 
diately learned  and  appropriated  from  their 
product ;  they  are  less  direct  and  stringent  in- 
tellectual agencies,  though  they  may  be  more 
beautiful  and  divine."  It  was  this  quality  of 
intelligence  that  eminently  characterized  the 
literature  of  the  seventeenth  century.  It  was 
a  mirror  of  social  conditions,  or  their  natural 
outcome.  The  spirit  of  its  social  life  pene- 
trated its  thought,  colored  its  language,  and 
molded  its  forms.  We  trace  it  in  the  letters 
and  vers  de  societe  which  were  the  pastime  of 


MARIE     DE     RABUTIN-CHANTAL —  MARQUISE    DE     SEVIGNE.       (FROM     THE     OIL 
PORTRAIT     BY    HENRI     BEAUBRUN.) 


the  Hotel  de  Rambouillet  and  the  Samedis  of 
Mile,  de  Scudery,  as  well  as  in  the  romances 
which  reflected  their  sentiments  and  pictured 
their  manners.  We  trace  it  in  the  literary  por- 
traits which  were  the  diversion  of  the  coterie 
of  Mademoiselle  at  the  Luxembourg,  and  in 
the  voluminous  memoirs  and  chronicles  which 
grew  out  of  it.  We  trace  it  also  in  the  "  Max- 
ims "  and  thoughts  which  were  polished  and 
perfected  in  the  convent  salon  of  Mme.  de 
Sable,  and  were  the  direct  fruits  of  a  wide  ex- 
perience and  observation  of  the  great  world. 
It  would  be  unfair  to  say  that  anything  so 
complex  as  the  growth  of  a  new  literature  was 
wholly  due  to  any  single  influence,  but  the  in- 
tellectual drift  of  the  time  seems  to  have  found 
its  impulse  in  the  salons.  They  were  the  alem- 
bics in  which  thought  was  fused  and  crys- 
tallized. They  were  the  schools  in  which  the 
French  mind  cultivated  its  extraordinary  clear- 
ness and  flexibility. 

As  the  century  advanced,  the  higher  literature 
was  tinged  and  modified  by  the  same  spirit.  So- 
ciety, with  its  follies  and  af- 
fectations,inspiredthemock- 
ing  laughter  of  Moliere,  but 
its  unwritten  laws  tempered 
his  language  and  refined 
his  wit.  Its  fine  urbanity  was 
reflected  in  the  harmony 
and  delicacy  of  Racine,  as 
well  as  in  the  critical  de- 
corum of  Boileau.  The  ar- 
tistic sentiment  ruled  in  let- 
ters, as  in  social  life.  It  was 
not  only  the  thought  that 
counted,  but  the  setting  of 
the  thought.  The  majestic 
periods  of  Bossuet,  the 
tender  persuasiveness  of 
Fenelon,  gave  even  truth 
a  double  force.  Doubtless 
the  inevitable  reaction  came. 
The  great  literary  wave  of 
the  seventeenth  century 
reached  its  brilliant  climax 
and  broke  upon  the  shores 
of  a  new  era.  But  the  seeds 
of  thought  had  been  scat- 
tered, to  spring  up  in  the 
great  literature  of  humanity 
that  marked  the  eighteenth 
century. 


in. 

There  were  other  salons 
among  the  noblesse,  mod- 
eled more  or  less  after  the 
parent  one,  but  without  the 
inspiration    of     its     gifted 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


89 


leader.  Many  of  them  had  a  slightly 
literary  flavor,  of  a  superficial  sort,  be- 
cause it  was  the  fashion,  and  the  name 
of  a  well-known  litteratew  gave  them 
a  certain  eclat.  Richelieu  had  recog- 
nized the  power  of  the  Hotel  de 
Rambouillet  and  wished  to  transfer 
it  to  the  salon  of  his  niece  Mme. 
d'Aiguillon,  but  the  little  court  was 
always  hampered  by  the  suspicion 
of  political  intrigues  and  tainted  with 
the  questionable  character  of  its  host- 
ess. Louis  XIV.  was  jealous  of  the 
influence  of  the  Rambouillet  circle, 
and,  with  his  usual  shrewdness  in  ap- 
propriating everything  that  would 
add  to  his  glory,  gradually  drew  into 
the  court  the  various  talents  which 
had  made  its  success.  Mme.  de 
Maintenon  has  been  called,  by  an 
eminent  French  critic,  the  true  suc- 
cessor of  Mme.  de  Rambouillet. 
As  a  patron  of  literature,  a  censor  of 
morals,  and  an  arbiter  of  manners, 
she  followed  closely  in  her  footsteps. 
But  she  lacked  her  delicacy  and  in- 
definable charm.  "  A  woman  without  senti- 
ment, without  imagination,  without  illusions," 
as  Mme.  du  Deffand  wrote  of  her  a  century 
later,  she  has  always  an  air  of  posing,  and  one 
forgets  to  include  her  among  those  who  have 
claims  to  consideration  through  conspicuous 
social  gifts. 

There  were  smaller  coteries,  however,  which 
inherited  the  spirit  and  continued  the  traditions 
of  the  Hotel  de  Rambouillet.  Prominent 
among  these  was  that  of  Madeleine  de  Scu- 
dery,  who  held  her  Samedis  in  modest  fashion 
after  its  close.  We  miss  a  little  of  the  fine  tone 
and  high  breeding  of  the  model,  but  it  had  a 
definite  position.  As  the  forerunner  of  Mme. 
de  La  Fayette  and  Mme.  de  Sevigne,  and, 
after  them,  the  most  eminent  literary  woman  of 
the  century  with  which  her  life  ran  parallel,  she 
has  a  distinct  interest  for  us.  She  has  left  no  un- 
certain traces  of  herself,  and  we  are  indebted 
to  her  keen  observation  and  her  facile  pen  for 
a  very  complete  and  vivid  picture  of  the  social 
life  of  the  period. 

The  "  illustrious  Sappho,"  as  she  was  pleased 
to  be  called,  certainly  did  not  possess  the 
beauty  popularly  accorded  to  her  namesake 
and  prototype.  She  was  tall  and  thin,  with  a 
long,  dark,  and  not  at  all  regular  face ;  but,  if 
we  may  credit  her  admirers,  who  were  numer- 
ous, she  had  fine  eyes,  a  pleasing  expression, 
and  an  agreeable  address.  She  evidently  did 
not  overestimate  her  personal  attractions,  as 
will  be  seen  from  the  following  quatrain,  which 
she  wrote  upon  a  portrait  made  by  one  of  her 
friends. 

Vol.  XL.— 12. 


MLLE.     DE     SCUDliRY.      (FROM     AN     ENGRAVING.) 

Manteuil,  en  faisant  mon  image, 
A  de  son  art  divin  signale  le  pouvoir; 
Je  hais  mes  yeux  dans  mon  mivoir, 
Je  les  aime  dans  son  ouvrage. 

She  had  her  share,  however,  of  small  but 
harmless  vanities,  and  spoke  of  her  impover- 
ished family,  says  Tallemant,  "  as  one  might 
speak  of  the  overthrow  of  the  Greek  empire." 
Her  father  belonged  to  an  old  and  noble  house 
of  Provence,  but  removed  to  Normandy,  where 
he  married  and  died,  leaving  two  children  with 
a  heritage  of  talent  and  poverty.  A  trace  of 
the  Provencal  spirit  always  clung  to  Madeleine, 
who  was  born  in  1607,  and  lived  until  the  first 
year  of  the  following  century.  After  losing  her 
mother,  who  is  said  to  have  been  a  woman  of 
some  distinction,  she  was  carefully  educated 
by  an  uncle  in  all  the  accomplishments  of  the 
age,  as  well  as  in  the  serious  studies,  which 
were  then  unusual.  She  went  to  Paris  with 
her  brother,  who  had  some  pretension  as  a  poet 
and  dramatic  writer.  He  even  posed  as  a  rival 
of  Corneille  and  was  sustained  by  Richelieu, 
but  time  has  long  since  relegated  him  to  the 
oblivion  he  deserved.  His  gifted  sister,  who 
was  a  victim  of  his  selfish  tyranny,  is  credited 
with  doing  much  of  the  prose  work  which 
appeared  under  his  name ;  indeed,  her  first 
romances  were  thus  disguised. 

Of  winning  temper  and  pleasing  address, 
with  a  full  equipment  of  knowledge  and  im- 
agination, versatility  and  ambition,  she  was  at 
an  early  period  domesticated  in  the  family  of 
Mme.  de  Rambouillet  as  the  friend  and  com- 


9° 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


panion  of  her   daughter  Julie.    Her 
graces  of  mind    and    her  amiability 
made  her  a  favorite  with  those  who 
frequented  the  house,  and  she  was  thus 
brought  into  close  contact  with  the 
best   society   of  her   time.    She  has 
painted  it  carefully  and  minutely  in 
the  "  Grand  Cyrus,"  a  romantic  alle- 
gory in  which  she  transfers  the  French 
aristocracy  and   French  manners  of 
the  seventeenth  century  to  an  oriental 
court.      The  Hotel  de  Rambouillet 
plays  an  important  part  as  the  Hotel 
Cleomire.    When  we    consider   that 
the  central    figures  were  the  Prince 
de  Conde  and  his  lovely  sister  the 
Duchesse  de  Longueville,  also  that 
the    most     distinguished    men    and 
women  of  the  age  saw  their  own  por- 
traits, somewhat  idealized  but  quite 
recognizable,  through  the  thin  disguise 
of  Persians,  Greeks,  Armenians,  or 
Egyptians,  it  is  easy  to  imagine  that 
the   ten  volumes   of  rather   exalted 
sentiment  were   eagerly  sought  and 
read.    She  lacked  incident  and  con- 
structive power,  but  excelled  in  vivid 
portraits,  subtle  analysis,  and  fine  con- 
versations.   Her  machinery  was  cum- 
bersome and  anachronisms  were  not 
regarded.     But  her  penetrating  intellect  was 
thoroughly  tinged  with  the  romantic  spirit,  and 
she  had  the  art  of  throwing  a  certain  glamour 
over  everything  she  touched.   Cousin,  who  has 
rescued  the  memory  of  Mile,  de  Scudery  from 
many  unjust  aspersions,  says  that  she  was  the 
"creator  of  the  psychological  romances."  Un- 
questionably her    skill    in    character-painting 
set  the  fashion  for  pen-portraits  which  became 
a  mania  a  few  years  later. 

She  depicts  herself  as  Sappho,  whose  opin- 
ions may  be  supposed  to  reflect  her  own.  In 
these  days,  when  the  position  of  women  is 
discussed  from  every  possible  point  of  view,  it 
may  be  rather  interesting  to  know  how  it  was 
regarded  by  one  who  represented  the  thought- 
ful side  of  the  age  in  which  their  social  power 
was  first  distinctly  asserted.  It  is  clear  that 
the  old  types  have  not  all  died  out.  She 
classes  her  critics  and  enemies  under  several 
heads.  Among  them  are  "  the  light  and  co- 
quettish women  whose  only  occupation  is  to 
adorn  their  persons  and  pass  their  lives  in 
fetes  and  amusements  —  women  who  think 
that  scrupulous  virtue  requires  them  to  know 
nothing  but  to  be  the  wife  of  a  husband,  the 
mother  of  children,  and  the  mistress  of  a  fam- 
ily; and  men  who  regard  women  as  upper 
servants,  and  forbid  their  daughters  to  read 
anything  but  their  prayer-books." 

"  One  does  not  wish  women  to  be  coquettes," 


FRANCOISE    D'AUBIGNE,    MARQUISE    DE     MAINTENON,    WIFE     OF     LOUIS     XIV. 
(FROM    A     PAINTING     BY    MIGNARD.) 

she  writes  again,  "  but  permits  them  to  learn 
carefully  all  that  fits  them  for  gallantry,  with- 
out teaching  them  anything  which  can  fortify 
their  virtue  or  occupy  their  minds.  They  de- 
vote ten  or  a  dozen  years  to  learning  to  appear 
well,  to  dress  in  good  style,  to  dance  and  sing, 
for  five  or  six ;  but  this  same  person,  who  re- 
quires judgment  all  her  life  and  must  talk 
until  her  last  sigh,  learns  nothing  which  can 
make  her  converse  more  agreeably,  or  act 
with  more  wisdom." 

But  she  does  not  like  &femme  savante,  and 
ridicules,  under  the  name  of  Damophile,  a 
character  which  might  have  been  the  model 
for  Moliere's  Philaminte.  This  woman  has 
five  or  six  masters,  of  whom  the  least  learned 
teaches  astrology.  She  poses  as  a  Muse,  and 
is  always  surrounded  with  books,  pencils,  and 
mathematical  instruments,  while  she  uses  large 
words  in  a  grave  and  imperious  tone,  although 
she  speaks  only  of  little  things.  After  many 
long  conversations  about  her,  Sappho  con- 
cludes thus :  "  I  wish  it  to  be  said  of  a  woman 
that  she  knows  a  hundred  things  of  which  she 
does  not  boast,  that  she  has  a  well-informed 
mind,  is  familiar  with  fine  works,  speaks  well, 
writes  correctly,  and  knows  the  world ;  but  I 
do  not  wish  it  to  be  said  of  her  that  she  is  a 
femme  savante.  The  two  characters  have  no 
resemblance." 

After  some  further  discussion  to  the  effect  that 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE  FRENCH  SALONS. 


91 


HENRIETTE    ANNE    D'ANGLETERRE,    DUCHESSE    d'oRLEANS. 

(from  a  painting  attributed   to   rigaud.) 

the  wise  woman  will  conceal  superfluous  learn- 
ing and  especially  avoid  pedantry,  she  defines 
the  limit  to  which  a  woman  may  safely  go  in 
knowledge  without  losing  her  right  to  be  re- 
garded as  the  "  ornament  of  the  world,  made 
to  be  served  and  adored,"  according  to  the 
Rambouillet  code. 


Whoever  should  write  all  that  was  said  by  fif- 
teen or  twenty  women  together  would  make  the 
worst  book  in  the  world,  even  if  some  of  them  were 
women  of  intelligence.  But  if  a  man  should 
enter,  a  single  one,  and  not  even  a  man  of  distinc- 
tion, the  same  conversation  would  suddenly  become 
more  spirituelle  and  more  agreeable.  The  conver- 
sation of  men  is,  doubtless,  less  sprightly  when 
there  are  no  women  present;  but  ordinarily,  al- 
though it  may  be  more  serious,  it  is  still  rational, 
and  they  can  do  without  us  more  easily  than  we 
can  do  without  them. 

She  attaches  great  importance  to  conver- 
sation, as  "the  bond  of  society,  the  greatest 
pleasure  of  well-bred  people,  and  the  best 
means  of  introducing,  not  only  politeness  into 
the  world,  but  a  purer  morality."  She  dwells 
always  upon  the  necessity  of  "a  spirit  of  ur- 
banity, which  banishes  all  bitter  railleries,  as 
well  as  everything  that  can  offend  the  taste," 
also  of  a  certain  "  esprit  de  joie." 

We  find  here  the  code  which  ruled  the  Hotel 
de  Rambouillet,  and  the  very  well-defined 
character  of  the  precieuse,  who  was  originally 
an  accomplished  woman  in  the  highest  sense, 
with  a  perfect  accord  of  intelligence  and  good 
taste.  As  pretension  crept  in,  the  word  was 
used,  later,  to  indicate  a  sort  of  intellectual 
parvenue,  half  prude  and  half  pedant,  who 
affected  learning  and  paraded  it,  as  she  would 
fine  clothes,  for  effect.  But  it  may  be  noted 
that  Mile,  de  Scudery,  who  was  among  the 
avant-coureitrs  of  the  modern  movement  for  the 


One  can  know  some  foreign  languages 
and  confess  to  reading  Homer,  Hesiod, 
and  the  works  of  the  illustrious  Aristee 
(Chapelain),  without  being  too  learned. 
One  can  express  an  opinion  so  modestly 
that,  without  offending  the  propriety  of 
her  sex,  she  may  permit  it  to  be  seen 
that  she  has  wit,  knowledge,  and  judg- 
ment. That  which  I  wish  principally  to 
teach  women  is  not  to  speak  too  much  of 
that  which  they  know  well ;  never  to 
speak  of  that  which  they  do  not  know 
at  all,  and  to  speak  reasonably. 

We  note  always  a  half-apologetic 
tone,  a  spirit  of  compromise  between 
her  conscious  intelligence  and  the 
traditional  prejudice  which  had  in 
no  wise  diminished  since  Martial  in- 
cluded, in  his  picture  of  a  domestic 
menage ',  a  wife  "  not  too  learned." 
She  is  not  willing  to  lose  a  woman's 
birthright  of  love  and  devotion,  but 
is  not  quite  sure  how  far  it  might  be 
affected  by  her  ability  to  detect  a 
solecism.  Hence,  she  offers  a  great 
deal  of  subtle  flattery  to  masculine 
self-love.  With  curious  naivete  she 
says : 


ELISABETH    SOPHIE    CHERON — MME.     LE    HAY.       (FROM    AN    ENGRAVING.) 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


MARIE    LOUISE    GONZAGUE-CLEVES.      (FROM    AN     ENGRAVING.) 

advancement  of  women,  always  preserved  the  four  verses 
forms  of  the  old  traditions,  while  violating  their 
spirit.  True  to  her  Gallic  instincts,  she  pre- 
sented her  innovations  sugar-coated.  Perhaps 
she  recognized  that  when  knowledge  has  pene- 
trated the  soul  it  does  not  need  to  be  worn 
on  the  outside.  It  shines  through  the  entire 
personality.  At  all  events,  she  had  the  fine 
sense  of  fitness  which  is  the  conscience  of  her 
race,  and  which  gave  so  much  power  to  the 
women  who  really  revolutionized  society  with- 
out antagonizing  it. 

Mme.  de  Sevigne  writes  to  her  daughter: 
"  Mile,  de  Scudery  has  just  sent  me  two  little 
volumes  of  conversations ;  it  is  impossible  that 
they  should  not  be  good,  when  they  are  not 
drowned  in  a  great  romance." 

When  the  Hotel  de  Rambouillet  was  closed, 
Mile,  de  Scudery  tried  to  replace  those  pleas- 
ant reunions  by  receiving  her  friends  on  Sat- 
urdays. These  informal  receptions  were  fre- 
quented by  a  few  men  and  women  of  rank, 
but  the  prevailing  tone  was  literary  and  slightly 
bourgeois.  We  meet  there  Mme.  de  Longue- 
ville,  Mme.  de  Sable,  the  Due  and  Duchesse 
de  Montausier,  and  others  of  the  old  circle, 
who  were  her  lifelong  friends.  La  Rochefou- 
cauld is  there  occasionally,  also  Mme.  de  La 


Fayette,  Mme.  de  Sevigne,  and 
the  young  Mme.  Scarron, whose 
brilliant  future  is  hardly  yet  in 
her  dreams.    The  Comtesse  de 
la   Suze,   a   favorite   writer   of 
elegies,  and  the  versatile  Mile. 
Cheron,  who  had  some  celebrity 
as  poet,  musician,  and  painter, 
are    also    among  the     guests. 
The  poet  Sarasin  is  the  Voiture 
of  this  salon.    Pellisson,  the  his- 
torian and  one  of  the  founders 
of  the  Academie  Frangaise,is  its 
chronicler,  and  Conrart  its  sec- 
retary.   Chapelain    is   quite  at 
home  there,  and  we  find  also 
a  crowd  of  minor  authors  and 
artists  whose  names  have  long 
gone  into  oblivion.    They  con- 
verse upon  all  the  topics  of  the 
day,  from  fashion  to  politics, 
from  literature  and  the  arts  to 
the  last  item  of  gossip.  They 
read  their  works  and  vie  with 
one    another    in     improvising 
verses.  Pellisson  takes  notes  and 
leaves  us  a  multitude  of  mad- 
rigals, sonnets,  chansons,  and 
letters,    of  varied   merit.     He 
says  there   reigned   a    sort  of 
epidemic  of  little  poems.  "  The 
secret  influence  began  to  fall 
with  the  dew.  Here,  one  recites 
there,  one  writes  a  dozen.    All 
this  is  done  gaily  and  without  effort.    No  one 
bites  his  nails,  or  stops  laughing  and  talking. 
There   are   challenges,  responses,  repetitions, 
attacks,  repartees.    The  pen  passes  from  hand 
to  hand,  and  the  hand  does  not  keep  pace 
with  the  mind.    One  makes  verses  for  every 
lady  present."    Many  of  those  verses  were  cer- 
tainly not  of  the  best  quality,  but  it  would  be 
difficult,  even  in  this  advanced  age,  to  find  a 
company  of  people  clever  enough  to   divert 
themselves  by  throwing  off  such  poetic  trifles 
on  the  spur  of  the  moment. 

In  the  end,  the  Samedis  very  clearly  illus- 
trated the  fact  that  no  society  can  sustain 
itself  above  the  average  of  its  members.  These 
reunions  increased  in  size,  but  decreased  in 
quality,  with  the  inevitable  result  of  affectation 
and  pretension.  Intelligence,  taste,  and  polite- 
ness were  in  fashion.  Those  who  did  not  pos- 
sess them  put  on  their  semblance,  and,  affect- 
ing an  intellectual  tone,  fell  into  the  pedantry 
which  is  sure  to  grow  out  of  the  effort  to  speak 
above  one's  altitude.  The  fine-spun  theories 
of  Mile,  de  Scudery  also  reached  a  sentimental 
climax  in  "  Clelie,"  which  did  not  fail  of  its 
effect.  Platonic  love  and  the  ton  galant  were 
the  texts  for  a  thousand  absurdities  which  fi- 


THE    WOMEN  OF  THE   FRENCH  SALONS. 


93 


nally  reacted  upon  the  Samedis.  After  a  few 
years  they  lost  their  prestige  and  were  discon- 
tinued. But  Mile,  de  Scudery  retained  her 
brilliant  gifts  in  conversation,  and  received  her 
friends  until  a  short  time  before  her  death  in 
1 701.  Even  Tallemant,  writing  of  the  decline 
of  these  reunions,  says  that  "  Mile,  de  Scudery 
is  more  considered  than  ever."  At  the  age  of 
sixty-four  she  received  the  first  Prix  d' Elo- 
quence from  the  Academie  Franchise  for  an 
essay  on  Glory.  This  prize  was  founded  by 
Balzac  and  the  subject  was  specified.    Thus 


ended  only  with  his  life,  upon  which  she  wrote 
a  touching  eulogy  at  its  close.  But  she  never 
married.  She  feared  to  lose  her  liberty.  "  I 
know,"  she  writes,  "  that  there  are  many  esti- 
mable men  who  merit  all  my  esteem  and  who 
can  retain  a  part  of  my  friendship ;  but  as  soon 
as  I  regard  them  as  husbands  I  regard  them  as 
masters,  and  so  apt  to  become  tyrants  that  I 
must  hate  them  from  that  moment;  and  I 
thank  the  gods  for  giving  me  an  inclination 
very  much  averse  to  marriage."  No  shadow, 
however,  rested  upon  her  character. 


MARGUERITE    DE     VALOIS,     QUEEN     OF     NAVARRE,     AND    O 


(FROM     AN    OIL    PORTRAIT.) 


the  long  procession  of  laureates  was  led  by  a 
woman. 

In  spite  of  her  subtle  analysis  of  love,  and 
her  exact  map  of  the  Empire  of  Tenderness, 
her  sentiment  seems  to  have  been  rather  ideal. 
She  had  numerous  lovers,  of  whom  Conrart 
and  Pellisson  were  among  the  most  devoted. 
During  the  long  imprisonment  of  the  latter  for 
supposed  complicity  with  Fouquet  she  was  of 
great  service  to  him,  and  the  tender  friendship 


The  Abbe  de  Pure,  who  was  not  friendly  to 
the  precieuses  and  made  the  first  severe  attack 
upon  them,  thus  writes  of  her :  "  One  may 
call  Mile,  de  Scudery  the  muse  of  our  age 
and  the  prodigy  of  her  sex.  It  is  not  only  her 
goodness  and  her  sweetness,  but  her  intellect 
shines  with  so  much  modesty,  her  sentiments 
are  expressed  with  so  much  reserve,  she  speaks 
with  so  much  discretion,  and  all  that  she  says 
is  so  fit  and  reasonable,  that  one  cannot  help 


94 


ANDREA   DEL    VERROCCHIO. 


both  admiring  and  loving  her.  Comparing 
what  one  sees  of  her,  and  what  one  owes  to 
her  personally,  with  what  she  writes,  one  pre- 
fers, without  hesitation,  her  conversation  to 
her  works.  Although  her  mind  is  wonderfully 
great,  her  heart  outweighs  it.  It  is  in  the 
heart  of  this  illustrious  woman  that  one  finds 
true  and  pure  generosity,  an  immovable  con- 
stancy, a  sincere  and  solid  friendship."  She  is 
especially  interesting  to  us  as  marking  a  tran- 
sition point  in  the  history  of  women;  as  the 
author  of  the  first  romances  of  any  note  writ- 
ten by  her  sex ;  as  a  moral  teacher  in  an  age 
of  laxity;  and  as  a  woman  who  combined 
high  aspirations,  fine  ideals,  and  versatile  tal- 
ents with  a  pure  and  unselfish  character.  She 
aimed  at  universal  accomplishments  —  from 
the  distillation  of  a  perfume  to  the  writing  of  a 
novel,  from  the  preparation  of  a  rare  dish  to 
fine  conversation,  from  playing  the  lute  to  the 


dissection  of  the  human  heart.  In  this  versa- 
tility she  has  been  likened  to  Mme.  Genlis, 
whom  she  resembled  also  in  her  moral  teach- 
ing and  her  factitious  sensibility.  But  she  was 
more  genuine,  more  amiable,  and  far  superior 
in  true  elevation  of  character.  She  was  full  of 
theories  and  loved  to  air  them,  hence  the  peo- 
ple who  move  across  the  pages  of  her  novels 
are  often  lost  in  a  cloud  of  moral  speculation. 
But  she  gave  a  fresh  impulse  to  literature,  add- 
ing a  fine  quality  of  grace,  tenderness,  and  pure, 
though  often  exaggerated,  sentiment.  Mme. 
de  La  Fayette,  who  had  more  clearness  of 
mind,  as  well  as  a  finer  artistic  sense,  gave  a 
better  form  to  the  novel  and  pruned  it  of  super- 
fluous matter.  The  sentiment,  which  casts  so 
soft  and  delicate  a  coloring  over  her  romances,, 
was  more  subtle  and  refined.  It  may  be  ques- 
tioned, however,  if  she  wrote  so  much  that  could 
be  incorporated  in  the  thought  of  her  time. 

Amelia  Gere  Mason. 


7  --  'si-:^l&i 


ANDREA    DEL   VERROCCHIO,    1435-1488. 

(ITALIAN  OLD  MASTERS.) 


NDREA,  son  of  Michele, 
the  son  of  Francesco 
dei  Cioni,  was  born  in 
Florence  in  1435,  and,  like 
his  brother  Thomas,  re- 
ceived the  surname  "  Ver- 
rocchio "  from  their  first 
master,  the  goldsmith  Giuliano 
Verrocchi.  The  father,  Michele, 
lived,  as  it  is  recorded,  in  the  Via  S.  Ag- 
nolo,  in  the  parish  of  S.  Ambrogio,  and, 
according  to  Dohme,  he  was  a  stove 
builder  and  afterward  a  sculptor.  There 
is  a  notice  of  him  in  1456  as  a  seller  in 
the  Custom  House.  Cavalcaselle  makes  the 
father's  name  Domenico  and  Michele  to  be 
the  grandfather,  and  says  that  Domenico's 
trade  was  that  of  a  goldsmith.  Both  agree  that 
Andrea's  first  steps  in  art  were  in  the  goldsmith's 
shop ;  and  Vasari  tells  of  some  heads  of  bish- 


ops' staffs  which  he  made  for  the  Duomo 
of  Florence  (of  which  one  is  believed  by 
Dohme  to  be  in  the  National  Museum),  and 
of  several  pieces  of  repousse  gold  and  silver 
work,  especially  two  cups,  one  decorated 
with  animals  and  foliage  considered  so  beau- 
tiful that  other  artists  had  casts  of  it  as 
models,  and  another  with  a  relief  of  dancing 
children.  Baldinucci  refers  his  readers  to  a 
rare  manuscript  which  shows  that  Andrea 
was  a  pupil  of  Donatello,  who  we  know 
passed  the  latter  part  of  his  life  in  Florence, 
where  he  had  a  number  of  pupils,  among 
them  Pollaiuolo  and  Andrea  del  Verrocchio. 
Verrocchio's  first  work  of  any  importance 
of  which  we  know  was  done  while  work- 
ing with  Donatello  —  the  marble  basin  still 
existing  in  the  sacristy  of  S.  Lorenzo.  Cellini 
tells  us  that  Verrocchio  continued  the  gold- 
smith's   trade    till   he  was   thirty  years  old; 


ANDREA    DEL    VERROCCHIO. 


97 


and  as  Donatello  died  in  1466, —  i.  e.,  when 
Verrocchio  was  thirty-one, —  it  is  possible,  as 
Dohme  conjectures,  that  the  latter  finished  the 
basin,  in  which  two  distinct  styles  of  work- 
manship are  evident.  The  archives  show  that 
in  1467  a  certain  sum  was  paid  to  Verrocchio 
for  the  casting  of  the  bronze  doors  modeled  by 
Luca  della  Robbia  for  S.  Lorenzo ;  and  it  was 
he  who  cast  the  huge  bronze  ball  which  Brunel- 
leschi  designed  for  the  crowning  of  the  lantern 
of  the  dome  of  the  cathedral  of  Florence.  It 
was  a  colossal  work  for  its  time,  weighing 
4368  Florentine  pounds  of  twelve  ounces,  in- 
cluding the  cross  which  surmounted  it,  both 
being  gilt.  The  order  was  given  in  1467,  and 
the  casting  was  in  place  by  1472.  This  ball  was 
struck  by  lightning  in  1600  and  demolished, 
and  was  replaced  by  one  still  larger. 

Like  some  other  works  which  are  more 
noticeable  for  their  magnitude  than  for  any 
artistic  quality  in  them,  the  casting  of  this  ball 
brought  Verrocchio  more  reputation  than  his 
sculptures.  He  received  many  orders  from  the 
Medici,  the  first  being  the  commission  for  the 
tomb,  of  Piero  and  Giovanni  de'  Medici,  father 
and  uncle  of  Lorenzo,  in  the  sacristy  of  S. 
Lorenzo.  This  was  completed  in  1472.  Cav- 
alcaselle  points  with  just  discrimination  to  the 
ingenious  way  in  which  Andrea  utilized  a 
window-opening  as  a  niche,  and  to  the  feeling 
for  color  shown  in  the  arrangement  of  the 
colored  materials,  as  well  as  to  the  delicacy  of 
the  execution  of  the  ornamental  work.  The 
Medici  then  employed  him  in  the  decoration  of 
their  favorite  residence,  the  Villa  Careggi, which 
Cosimo  had  built  in  1461.  He  made  for  them 
four  marble  lions'  heads  and  three  heads  in 
bronze  (of  which  two  were  those  of  Alexander 
and  Darius,  which  Lorenzo  sent  to  Matthias 
Corvinus  of  Hungary),  according  to  Vasari,  and 
the  baby  in  bronze  which  Cosimo  afterwards 
placed  on  the  fountain  in  the  cortile  of  the 
Palazzo  Vecchio.  It  was  also  at  the  order  of 
the  Medici  that  he  did  the  bronze  David  now 
in  the  Florentine  Museum.  He  further  under- 
took for  Lorenzo  the  restoration  of  an  antique 
Marsyas,  which  is  lost. 

In  1477  Francesca  Pitti,1  wife  of  Giovanni 
Tornabuoni  (according  to  Vasari,  though  Bode 
questions  the  individuality  of  the  husband), 
died  in  Rome  in  childbed,  and  Verrocchio  was 

1  Milanesi  says  :  "  Ifhere  Vasari  does  not  indicate 
Giovanfrancesco  di  Filippo  Tornabuoni,  married  in 
1470  to  Elisabeth,  daughter  of  Andrea  Allemanni,  he 
certainly  v/as  mistaken,  as  our  friend  Dr.  L.  Passerini 
points  out  to  us,  because  neither  the  epoch  nor  the  cir- 
cumstances agree  with  the  existence  of  the  two  mem- 
bers of  the  family  Tornabuoni  by  the  name  of  Francesco, 
of  whom  one  died  in  1436,  when  Verrocchio  was  still  a 
child,  and  the  other  in  Rome  in  1484,  leaving  a  widow 
whose  name  was  Marietta  Valori.  Baron  Reumont  is 
of  the  opinion  that  this  monument  was  raised  by  Gio- 
vanni Tornabuoni  to  his  wife  Francesca  Pitti,  and  this 
Vol.  XL.— 13. 


sent  for  to  make  her  monument,  which  appears 
to  have  been  his  first  important  work  in  mar- 
ble. The  monument  has  perished,  but  the  re- 
liefs now  in  the  museum  of  Florence,  represent- 
ing the  death  of  the  young  mother  and  the  grief 
of  the  assistants,  show  the  artist's  dramatic 
power  to  have  been  very  great.  From  this  on 
till  1484,  the  date  of  the  death  of  Sixtus  IV., 
Verrocchio  divided  his  time  between  Rome 
and  Florence.  He  executed  some  large  silver 
statues  of  the  Apostles  for  the  Sistine  Chapel. 
These  have  since  been  stolen  and  probably 
melted  up,  as  no  trace  of  them  has  ever  been 
found.  Hans  Semper  considers  a  number  of 
reliefs  and  figures  in  the  cellars  of  the  Vati- 
can to  be  the  work  of  Verrocchio  and  his  pu- 
pils, possibly  done  at  this  time,  as  it  is  known 
that  he  did  some  then  for  the  Sistine.  About 
1480  he  executed  the  silver  bas-relief  of  the 
decollation  of  St.  John  for  the  altar  of  the 
Baptistery  of  Florence.  This  is  the  only  ex- 
ample of  his  goldsmith's  work  remaining,  and 
it  is  of  its  kind  unrivaled  in  movement  and  in 
delicacy  of  finish.  In  1483  he  completed  the 
group  in  bronze  of  the  "  Incredulity  of  St. 
Thomas"  for  the  church  of  Or  San  Michele, 
which  is  considered  to  be  his  finest  work  in  this 
kind.  It  is  full  of  imaginative  feeling:  the  criti- 
cism which  Cavalcaselle  makes,  viz.,  that  the 
Christ  is  old  and  pinched,  is  hypercritical ;  and 
my  opinion  is  that  it  is  rather  the  expression  of 
the  religious  conception  of  the  Saviour  as  "  a 
man  of  sorrows,  and  acquainted  with  grief," 
wasted  and  prematurely  old.  The  years  from 
1484  to  1488,  the  last  of  his  life,  he  spent  mostly 
at  work  on  his  great  equestrian  statue  of  Col- 
leoni  at  Venice.  Vasari  tells  us  that  he  was 
twice  in  Venice  for  this  work,  having  thrown 
up  the  commission  at  one  time,  and  broken 
the  head  and  the  legs  of  the  horse,  because 
some  of  the  senators  insisted  that  a  Venetian 
sculptor  of  slight  ability,  Vellano,  should  do 
the  Colleoni,  while  Verrocchio  was  to  do  only 
the  horse.  The  Senate  was  furious  with  him, 
and  sentenced  him  to  death  by  decapitation 
if  he  ever  reappeared.  He  sent  them  word 
that  under  the  circumstances  he  should  never 
return,  for  they  could  not  put  his  head  on 
again  as  he  could  that  of  the  horse.  The  reply 
is  said  to  have  so  pleased  the  Senate  that  word 
was  sent  to  him  to  come  back  and  he  should 

is  supported  by  the  evidence  of  a  letter  from  the  said 
Giovanni  to  Lorenzo  the  Magnificent,  written  from 
Rome,  September  24,  1477,  in  which  he  advises  him 
of  the  death  of  his  wife  in  childbed,  with  which  both 
date  and  name  agree.  There  does  not,  however,  seem 
to  be  any  reason  for  adopting  the  supposition  of  Reu- 
mont that  there  was  a  confusion  with  the  tomb  of 
Gianfrancesco,  dead  in  1480,  as  the  data  in  both  cases 
are  sufficient  to  avoid  any  confusion.  The  removal  of 
the  monument  to  Florence  in  the  changes  which  were 
always  going  on  in  Rome  is  most  probable." 


98 


ANDREA   DEL    VERROCCHIO. 


do  as  he  desired  about  it,  and  at  the  same 
time  they  offered  to  double  his  pay.  During 
the  casting  of  the  statue  he  caught  a  cold,  from 
which  he  died,  at  the  age  of  53.  By  his  will 
he  left  the  completion  of  the  group  to  his  fa- 
vorite pupil,  Lorenzo  di  Credi,  and  asked  to  be 
buried  in  Sta.  Maria  del  Orto;  but  the  Senate 
paid  no  attention  to  either  wish,  as  the  statue 
was  finished  by  Leopardi,  a  Venetian  sculptor, 
whom  the  ungrateful  Senate  afterwards  tried 
to  pass  off  as  the  artist,  and  Verrocchio's  bones 
were  afterwards  carried  to  Florence,  where 
they  were  laid  in  the  family  vault  in  S.  Am- 
brogio.  On  the  tomb  is  the  following  inscrip- 
tion :  6".  Michaelis  de  Cionis  et  suorum.  An- 
drea Verocchii  Dominici  filii  Michaelis,  qici 
obiit  Venetiis,  1488. 

Verrocchio's  record  is  mainly  that  of  a  sculp- 
tor, yet  he  had  more  to  do  with  the  shaping 
of  the  art  of  painting  for  his  immediate  suc- 
cessors than  any  painter  of  his  generation. 
Besides  his  school  as  a  sculptor,  which  was  very 
influential,  he  was  the  master  in  painting  of 
Leonardo,  Perugino,  and  Lorenzo  di  Credi. 
A  poem  by  Verini  compares  him  to  a  fountain 
from  which  all  the  great  painters  of  Florence 
drank.  In  feeling  he  was  a  sculptor,  and  he 
caught  from  his  master,  Donatello,  the  sym- 
pathy with  the  historical  ideal  which  was  the 
splendid  gift  of  that  great  artist.  This  runs 
through  all  his  personifications,  and  gives  them 
individuality.  Like  his  master,  he  was  a  great 
portraitist.  Vasari  says  that  he  was  the  first 
who  used  masks  from  the  dead  to  obtain 
the  likeness  he  required;  but  this  is  doubtful, 
for  masks  of  the  dead  were  certainly  taken 
before  his  time,  and  they  could  hardly  have 
served  for  any  other  purpose.  When  he  drew 
it  was  with  the  aim  of  understanding  the 
forms  he  was  studying,  and  in  the  day  when 
the  technic  of  all  the  graphic  arts  was  the 
common  education  of  artists  of  all  branches, 
the  pencil,  the  modeling-tool,  or  the  graver 
were  used  alike  to  express  form,  not  to  rep- 
resent surfaces,  and  drawing  meant  every- 
thing in  design.  When  the  pupils  of  Donatello 
asked  him  how  they  should  become  good 
sculptors,  he  replied,  "  Draw."  The  thorough 
understanding  of  the  forms  to  be  represented 
was  the  end  of  study,  and  when  this  was  at- 
tained the  representation  was  equally  easy  in 
clay,  wax,  in  simple  black  and  white,  or  in 
color;  for  the  color  itself  was  not  imitated 
from  nature,  but  the  result  of  long  elaborated 
canons,  holding  to  certain  relations  of  the  pig- 
ments, with  a  progressive  development  of  inten- 
sity rather  than  a  modification  of  system,  from 
Giotto  down  until  the  effect  of  the  revelations 
of  the  Venetian  school  began  to  be  felt  in  the 
Florentine.  Whether  in  the  former  or  the  latter, 
imitation   of   the    absolute    color    of   nature 


formed  no  part  of  the  study  of  the  artist.  He 
drew  to  obtain  the  facility  necessary  to  repro- 
duce what  forms  he  sought,  and  if  a  Venetian 
of  the  school  of  Bellini,  he  rendered  these  in 
color  with  attention  solely  to  its  orchestral  re- 
lations; if  a  Florentine,  with  the  purpose  of 
giving  their  essential  qualities  of  shape  and 
character.  The  training  of  the  sculptor  was 
therefore  the  training  of  the  painter.  There  is 
nothing  to  show  that  Verrocchio  dissected  the 
human  body.  This  was  an  innovation  which 
was  far  more  likely  to  be  made  by  a  decid- 
edly scientific  student  like  Leonardo,  and  I 
believe  we  may  safely  refer  it  to  him. 

Of  Verrocchio's  pictures  we  can  find  au- 
thentic evidence  only  as  to  one,  the  "  Baptism  of 
Christ,"  in  the  Accademia  of  Florence,  of  which 
Vasari  says  that  it  was  in  part  painted  by  Leo- 
nardo, and  of  which  Mr.  Cole  has  engraved  a 
part;  but  there  are  several  which  are,  by  various 
critics,  doubtfully  attributed  to  him.  It  is  known 
that  many  madonnas  were  sent  out  from  his  bot- 
tega  —  workshop,  as  it  was  called ;  for  in  the 
good  days  of  art  the  artist  was  known  purely 
and  simply  according  to  his  workmanship,  and 
from  the  O  of  Giotto  to  the  bronze  ball  of  Ver- 
rocchio the  man  took  rank  by  the  excellence 
of  his  handicraft.  Where  these  madonnas 
have  gone,  or  the  other  pictures  he  is  known  to 
have  painted,  we  have  no  clue.  Many  of  his 
drawings  exist,  and  they  are  greatly  confounded 
with  those  of  Leonardo  and  Lorenzo  di  Credi. 
A  madonna  at  Dresden  ascribed  to  Leonardo 
is  with  great  positiveness  assigned  to  Verroc- 
chio by  Bode,  as  is  an  altarpiece  at  Pistoja, 
the  "Virgin  Enthroned  with  Sts.  John  and 
Zeno " ;  one  in  the  Louvre  from  Sta.  Maria 
Maddalena  de'  Pazzi,  and  a  Nativity  in  the 
Accademia;  an  "  Adoration  of  the  Infant  by  the 
Madonna"  in  the  National  Gallery  at  London, 
otherwise  attributed  to  Pollaiuolo ;  a  "  Madonna 
with  the  Child  "  in  Berlin,  and  one  in  Frankfort. 
But  these  attributions,  which  are  mostly  due  to 
Bode,  are  strongly  impeached,  in  my  opinion, 
by  his  very  positive  reference  to  Verrocchio  of 
the  "Tobias  with  the  Three  Archangels"  in 
the  Accademia  (there  attributed  to  Botticelli). 
There  is  absolutely  no  datum  to  sustain  this 
attribution,  and  to  lead  to  its  rejection  it  is 
quite  sufficient  to  compare  the  manner  of  finish- 
ing the  extremities  in  this  and  in  other  pictures 
known  to  be  by  Botticelli,  with  the  treatment 
of  these  features  in  the  indubitable  work  of 
Verrocchio,  as  the  "  Baptism  of  Christ  "  in  the 
same  gallery.  In  the  Baptism  the  finger-tips, 
and  especially  the  insertions  of  the  toe  and 
finger  nails,  are  done  with  a  delicacy  and  fidel- 
ity never  approached  by  Botticelli,  while  those 
in  the  Tobias  are  painted  in  precisely  the  man- 
ner observed  in  all  the  pictures  of  the  lat- 
ter painter.    Nor  is  the  color  such  as  to  sup- 


ANDREA   DEL    VERROCCHIO. 


99 


port  such  an  attribution.  It  is  not  altogether 
in  the  usual  vein  of  Botticelli,  and  is  heavy  and 
feeble  in  execution ;  but  the  nude  portions  of 
the  picture  are  quite  in  his  manner,  and  it  is  to 
my  mind  clear  that  the  Tobias  is  of  Botticelli's 
design  and  painting,  or,  if  not,  of  one  of  his 
followers,1  so  far  as  the  flesh  goes,  and  that 
the  draperies  were  painted  from  Botticelli's 
cartoon  by  one  of  his  pupils  or  by  some 
follower  later.  Again,  the  landscape  details 
are  utterly  unlike  their  treatment  in  the  Bap- 
tism :  the  pebbles  of  the  foreground  of  the 
Baptism  are  drawn  on  the  gesso  prepa- 
ration with  all  the  care  and  natural  variety  of 
form  of  a  study  of  a  modern  pre-Raphaelite, 
while  the  foregrounds  of  Botticelli  are  purely 
conventional  in  details.  The  manner  of  paint- 
ing was  that  of  all  painters  of  the  school  at  this 
time;  i.  e.,  the  subject  was  carefully  outlined  on 
the  gesso  ground  and  laid  in  in  tempera  in  all  its 
masses,  folds  of  drapery,  drawing  of  the  heads, 
etc.,  and  on  this  the  finishing  was  done  in  oil  — 
not  in  the  manner  of  Bellini's  later  work  and 
all  late  Venetian  work,  with  broad  glazing,  but 
with  a  small  brush,  carefully  modeling  it  up  as 
if  with  a  point.  The  positiveness  with  which 
Bode  assigns  this  Tobias  to  Verrocchio  induces 
me,  as  I  have  said,  to  question  his  judgment 
in  other  cases. 

The  Baptism  becomes,  therefore,  both  from 
the  strong  individuality  of  its  types  and  from 
the  excellence  of  its  workmanship,  as  well  as 
from  the  high  importance  of  the  painter  in  rela- 
tion to  all  subsequent  and  contemporary  art, 
a  picture  of  almost  unique  importance.  The 
story  which  Vasari  tells  of  Leonardo's  having 
done  a  part  of  it  with  such  success  as  to  induce 
Verrocchio  to  abandon  painting,  is  probably 
one  of  Vasari's  fables.  There  is  nothing  in  the 
picture  to  support  it.  The  part  supposed  to 
have  been  put  in  by  Leonardo,  the  nearer  angel 
of  the  two,  may  well  be  from  Leonardo's  hand, 
but  there  is  no  such  superiority  as  Vasari  attrib- 
utes to  it.  Let  us  consider  the  entire  process 
of  producing  the  picture,  and  then  see  if  there 
is  any  room  for  the  credulity  of  the  writer,  who 
is  as  often  fabulist  as  historian.  We  know  that 
in  every  case  a  picture  was  carefully  designed, 
and  the  composition  completely  finished  in 
the  cartoon.  This  was  then  traced  on  a  gesso 
ground,  the  lines  of  the  cartoon  being  pricked 
through,  and  charcoal  powder  being  dusted 
through  the  lines  of  punctures  thus  made,  and 
by  this  the  lines  of  the  subject  were  carefully 
drawn.    We  have  many  cartoons  which  show 


this  to  have  been  the  practice,  and  the  tem- 
pera preparation  of  the  drapery  of  the  Baptist 
in  this  picture  shows  these  lines  throughout. 
The  composition  was  therefore  entirely  that  of 
Verrocchio ;  and  if  the  story  of  Vasari  is  good, 
the  painting  of  the  Christ,  St.  John,  and  the 
second  angel  is  that  of  the  master,  as  well  as 
the  general  effect.  The  drapery  of  St.  John  is 
in  the  tempera  state,  the  oil-color  not  having 
been  added,  and  the  forms  are  faintly  modeled 
in  comparison  with  the  others.  The  drawing, 
certainly,  and  probably  the  tempera  prepa- 
ration, of  the  angel  of  Leonardo  were  then  by 
Verrocchio,  the  painting  of  the  head  and  the 
drapery  alone  of  this  angel  by  Leonardo.  The 
head  of  the  second  angel  is  by  Verrocchio,  and 
the  drapery  of  the  other  figures.  But  there  is 
nothing,  I  repeat,  in  the  painting  of  the  head 
of  the  first  angel  which  indicates  any  such 
superiority  as  is  implied  :  from  its  pose,  a  profit 
•perdu,  it  is  more  simple  and  therefore  broader  in 
its  mass  than  the  second,  which  is  seen  in  nearly 
full-face;  but  the  design,  and  therefore  the 
general  effect  in  relation  to  the  rest  of  the  pic- 
ture, must  have  been  those  of  Verrocchio.  The 
draperies  do  not  any  more  bear  out  the  claim 
of  superiority  for  the  pupil,  for  the  bit  of  dra- 
pery around  the  loins  of  the  Christ  is  by  far 
the  most  masterly  piece  of  painting,  considered 
as  execution  and  color,  in  the  picture;  and 
even  if  the  color  of  the  angel's  head  had 
been  beyond  the  abilities  of  the  master,  it 
was  so  subordinate  a  quality  at  his  time  and 
in  his  school  that  such  a  difference  as  could, 
under  the  best  hypothesis,  have  been  shown 
under  the  circumstances  would  not  have  con- 
victed Verrocchio  of  the  discouraging  in- 
feriority which  Vasari  supposes.  Moreover, 
as  the  picture  is  still  unfinished,  why  did  not 
Verrocchio,  in  this  supposed  generous  rec- 
ognition of  his  pupil's  superiority,  charge 
him  with  the  finishing  of  it  ?  I  believe  the 
whole  story  to  be  one  of  the  popular  fables 
growing  possibly  out  of  some  incident  con- 
nected with  the  abandonment  of  this  single 
picture  in  its  unfinished  state,  but  exaggerated 
and  transformed  by  Vasari  so  as  to  become 
substantially  a  fiction.  Vasari,  as  I  have  often 
had  occasion  to  note,  is  very  fond  of  the  mar- 
velous and  of  stories  of  precocity ;  it  was  the 
fashion  in  his  time  to  glorify  Leonardo,  and  he 
followed  it.  The  story  is  of  great  value  as  the 
means  of  identifying  the  picture ;  but  as  testi- 
mony to  the  early  superiority  of  Leonardo  to  his 
master,  I  utterly  discredit  it.    The  manner  of 


1  Mr.  Charles  Fairfax  Murray,  who  in  technical 
knowledge  of  the  work  of  the  early  Italian  schools  is 
facile  princeps  in  our  generation,  agrees  with  me  as  to 
the  Verrocchio  attribution,  but  he  discredits  the  pic- 
ture being  in  any  part  by  Botticelli,  and  I  am  not  dis- 
posed to  contest  his  decision  ;  but  I  think  that  any  one 


who  will  compare  closely,  as  I  have  compared,  the  paint- 
ing of  the  extremities  of  the  Tobias  with  work  known  to 
be  of  Botticelli,  will  be  puzzled  to  determine  by  whom  it 
can  be  if  not  by  Botticelli.  But  as  to  its  being  by  Ver- 
rocchio, there  is  no  room  for  discussion. 


IOO 


ANDREA   DEL    VERROCCHIO. 


treating  the  detail,  even  in  the  minor  and  less 
important  parts  of  the  picture,  is  very  nota- 
ble. The  bit  of  stony  foreground  at  the  left 
is  of  a  naturalistic  verity  of  which  I  do  not 
know  another  instance  in  the  art  of  the  Re- 
naissance. It  is  clearly  taken  directly  from  na- 
ture, for  the  invention  of  such  a  collection  of 
pebbles  is  not  only  very  much  more  difficult 
than  the  invention  of  some  orderly  decoration, 
as  every  artist  knows,  but  it  would  be  labor  en- 
tirely unappreciated  in  the  day  when  this  was 
done,  when  the  greatest  and  most  earnest  of 
painters  contemporary  with  Verrocchio  were 
entirely  indifferent  to  truthfulness  in  the  details 
of  their  landscapes ;  and  this  seems  to  be  more 
probably  a  freak  on  the  part  of  the  painter 
than  an  example  of  his  manner  of  treating 
landscape  generally,  for  the  other  parts  of  the 
background  of  the  same  picture  are  in  the  gen- 
eral conventional  style  of  the  day,  indicating 
recollection  of  nature  rather  than  direct  work- 
ing from  her  in  the  landscape  studies  they 
employed.  This  is  an  interesting  item  in 
the  formation  of  an  estimate  of  the  artistic 
character  of  the  master  of  so  many  great  art- 
ists ;  for  it  is  the  first  evidence  we  have  in  the 
history  of  Italian  art  of  direct  drawing  of  land- 
scape matter  from  nature,  and  it  is  so  in  con- 
sonance with  the  general  character  of  this 
particular  picture  that  I  need  not  apologize 
for  insisting  on  so  trivial  a  point. 

Cavalcaselle,  who  seems  to  me  the  most  sym- 
pathetic, and  therefore  the  most  highly  gifted, 
of  all  the  many  commentators,  with  insight  of 
a  true  critic  in  considering  the  early  schools 
of  his  native  land,  very  justly  attaches  great 
importance  to  this  Baptism.    He  says  : 

Verrocchio'sis  a  higher  nature,  enriched  by  a  more 
educated  and  general  taste  than  that  of  the  Pollaiu- 
oli.  His  "  Baptism  of  Christ, "unfinished  and  injured 
though  it  be,  offers  to  us  a  picture  of  calm  and  com- 
posure, of  reverent  and  tender  worship,  which  car- 
ries with  it  a  special  charm.  The  resigned  conscious- 
ness of  the  Saviour  receiving  the  water  which  St. 
John  pours  on  his  head  ;  the  questioning,  tender 
air  of  the  two  beautiful  angels  who  wait  on  the 
bank  of  the  brook  to  minister  to  the  Redeemer's 
wants  ;  the  brook  itself  running  in  its  bed  of  pebbles 
round  a  projection  of  rock  crowned  with  trees  from 
a  distance  of  lake  and  hills;  the  palm  tree  with  the 
bird  flying  into  it ;  the  mixture  of  the  mysteries 
of  solitude  and  worship  —  are  all  calculated  to  affect 
the  senses  of  the  beholder. 

Descending  to  a  more  critical  analysis,  we  find  the 
type  of  the  Saviour  not  absolutely  select,  somewhat 
imperfect  in  proportion  and  form ,  but  bony  and  drawn 
and  modeled  with  the  searching  study  of  anatomical 
reality.  The  Baptist  is  unfinished.  He  presents  to 
us  the  stiff  action  and  some  of  the  vulgarity  of  a 
model.  The  curly-headed  angel  presenting  his 
front  face  to  the  spectator  is  beautiful.  His  chiseled 
features,  shadowed  in  light  greenish-gray  over  the 
bright  local  tone,  are  fair  to   look  upon  ;  but  he  is 


surpassed  in  beauty  and  feeling  by  his  fellow-angel, 
whose  back  is  towards  the  beholder,  whilst  his  head, 
gently  bent  and  looking  up  to  the  Saviour,  pre- 
sents the  rotary  lines  of  brow,  cheek,  and  mouth 
which  illustrate  the  application  of  a  law  in  render- 
ing movement  familiar  to  the  great  painters  of  the 
sixteenth  century.  So  fresh  and  innocent,  so  tender 
and  loving,  is  this  angel,  that  it  strikes  one  as  the  fin- 
est ever  produced  in  the  manner  of  Verrocchio.  The 
soft  gaiety  and  grace  in  the  play  of  the  exquisite 
features,  the  pure,  silvery  outlines  and  modeling  of 
the  parts,  of  the  hair  and  lashes,  the  chaste  orna- 
ments which  deck  the  collar  of  the  bright  green  tunic 
damasked  in  brown  at  the  sleeves,  the  edges  of  the 
lucid  blue  mantle,  and  the  dress  which  is  held  ready 
for  the  Saviour  —  this  all  combines  to  form  a  total 
revealing  the  finish,  the  study,  conspicuous  in  Leo- 
nardo. In  type  and  in  the  expression  of  tender  feel- 
ing the  face  and  form  of  this  figure  are  equal  to 
those  of  the  Virgin  of  the  Rocks,  whilst  the  draperies 
by  their  broken  nature,  the  color  by  its  impasto,  re- 
call the  same  examples  to  mind.  The  force  of  chiaros- 
curo alone  is  not  so  great,  but  everything  confirms 
the  statement  of  Vasari  that  Leonardo  helped  Verroc- 
chio to  paint  the  picture. 

But  in  this  general  judgment  of  the  eminent 
Italian  critic  there  is  much  that  seems  to  me 
the  result  of  a  predetermined  admiration  due 
to  the  tradition  given  us  by  Vasari.  The  ob- 
jection to  the  type  of  the  Saviour  I  have  an- 
ticipated in  treating  the  relief  of  Or  San 
Michele,  and  in  regard  to  it  differ  in  toto  from 
Cavalcaselle.  It  seems  to  me  emphatically  select 
— notthe  selection  of  the  later  painters  who  had 
a  return  to  the  Greek  conception  of  the  ideal, 
that  it  must  be  one  of  physical  beauty,  but  the 
conception  of  the  Saviour  as  bearing  the  im- 
press of  a  painful  existence  and  a  more  pain- 
ful destiny,  a  thoughtful  rendering  of  what  was 
probably  to  the  painter  the  noblest  conception 
of  art,  the  historical  ideal,  the  shadowing  forth 
of  Him  who  was  in  this  scene  taking  up  his 
burden  of  the  woes  of  all  humanity.  Criticism 
of  this  kind,  both  Cavalcaselle's  and  my  own, 
is  always  in  danger  of  attributing  to  the  pic- 
ture the  feeling  which  is  awakened  in  the  critic 
by  chains  of  association  that  the  painter  did 
not  recognize;  but  nevertheless  a  work  of  art  is 
always  entitled  to  the  credit  of  the  ideas  it 
awakens,  and  in  this  respect  Verrocchio  is  in  the 
vein  of  the  early  religious  art  of  Italy  and  By- 
zantium —  the  ascetic  was  the  noblest  ideal  they 
knew.  Nor  is  Cavalcaselle's  objection  to  the 
Baptist  a  better  founded  one,  if  we  consider  the 
work  of  contemporary  painters.  Ascetic  as 
well  as  Christ,  the  Baptist  must  be  in  some 
measure  inferior  to  the  Saviour.  Both  show 
the  pose  plastique  in  the  attitudes,  as  did  all 
the  work  of  the  time  ;  both  show  the  almost 
painful  conscientiousness  of  study  which  was 
more  characteristic  of  Verrocchio  than  of  any 
painter  of  his  time  —  the  thorough  preparation 
of  the  cartoon,  and  extreme  painstaking  in  all 


FICKLE   HOPE. 


IOI 


the  processes  of  the  production  of  the  picture  : 
and  these  qualities  make  the  "  stiff  action," 
and  what  the  critic  calls  the  "  vulgarity,"  but 
which  is  in  reality  the  fidelity  to  his  models,  in 
which  Verrocchio  makes  the  distinction  be- 
tween the  Christ  and  the  Baptist.  And  this  very 
stiffness  is  visible  in  all  the  early  and  earnest 
schools  of  art  down  to  the  English  pre- 
Raphaelite. 

The  comparison  which  the  Italian  critic 
draws  between  the  two  angels  seems  to  me 
overdrawn  in  favor  of  Leonardo.  I  do  not  be- 
lieve that  any  one  would  have  suspected  that 
two  painters  had  worked  on  the  picture^  if  Va- 
sari  had  not  told  it.  The  decorative  qualities 
which  are  pointed  out  in  the  angel  assigned  to 
Leonardo  are  just  those  which  we  have  seen  in 
all  Verrocchio's  work,  embodying  extreme  deli- 
cacy in  finish  and  design  of  ornament.  The 
cast  of  the  draperies  and  the  general  scheme  of 
light  and  shade  must  have  been  qualities  of  the 
cartoon,  as  well  as  the  pose  of  the  angel,  so 
much  praised.  Admitting  that  the  talent  and 
attainments  of  the  pupil  were  such  that  he 


could  carry  out  a  part  of  his  master's  work  so 
ably  as  to  show  no  noteworthy  deficiency  in  the 
comparison,  I  have  allowed  to  Leonardo  very 
high  abilities ;  but  it  is  not  admissible  to  dis- 
tinguish him  for  qualities  which  we  have  found 
to  be  the  most  distinctive  traits  of  the  work  of 
the  master.  Take  Verrocchio  as  we  may,  and 
considering  that  his  sculpture  is  what  we  can 
best  judge  him  by,  he  takes  rank  among  the 
greatest  of  the  artists  of  the  Renaissance,  and 
is  probably  the  most  highly  gifted  of  the  en- 
tire range  from  Giotto  to  Michael  Angelo. 
Vasari  was  never  more  at  fault  than  when  he 
said  of  him  that  he  showed  "  a  certain  hard- 
ness of  manner,  revealing  patient  study  rather 
than  natural  gifts,"  for  his  genius  showed  itself 
eminently  in  this  very  power  of  taking  pains. 
He  was  an  admirable  goldsmith;  a  sculptor  in 
marble,  wood,  and  bronze,  as  well  as  worker 
in  terra  cotta ;  a  painter,  musician,  and  mathe- 
matician ;  and  no  artist  of  the  Renaissance 
showed  a  larger  possession  of  the  "  natural 
gifts  "  of  which  Vasari  would  deny  him  the 
possession. 

W.  J.   Stillman. 


STATUE     OF     COLLEONI,     BY     VERROCCHIO. 


FICKLE    HOPE. 


HOPE,  is  this  thy  hand 
Lies  warm  as  life  in  mine  ? 
Is  this  thy  sign 
Of  peace  none  understand  ? 


I  know  not  if  I  may 

Believe  thee,  Hope,  or  doubt : 

With  pretty  pout, 
Wilt  flee,  or  wilt  thou  stay  ? 


Harrison  S.  Morris. 


A    DECORATION     DAY    REVERY. 


^pHERE  hadbeen  an  early  spring, 
set  off  by  frequent  rain;  and 
when  Decoration  Day  dawned 
there  was  a  fresh  fairness  of  fo- 
liage, as  though  Nature  were 
making  ready  her  garlands  for 
our  honored  dead.  When  at 
length  the  march  began,  the 
sunshine  sifted  through  the 
timid  verdure  of  the  trees  in 
the  square  and  fell  softly  on 
the  swaying  ranks  that  passed 
beneath.  The  golden  beams 
glinted  from  the  slanting  bayo- 
nets and  seemed  to  keep  time 
with  the  valiant  old  war-tunes 
as  they  swelled  up  from 
the  frequent  bands. 
There  was  a  con- 
tagion of  military 
-  ardor  in  the  air, 
and  even  the 
small  boy  who 
had  climbed 
up  into  the 
safe  aery  of  a 
dismantled 
lamp  -  post 
had  within  him  inarticulate  stirrings  of  war- 
like ambition.  In  the  pauses  of  the  music  fifes 
shrilled  out,  and  the  roll  and  rattle  of  drums 
covered  the  rhythmic  tramping  of  the  soldiers. 
I  lingered  for  a  while  near  the  noble  statue  of 
the  great  admiral,  who  stood  there  firm  on  his 
feet,  with  the  sea-breeze  blowing  back  the 
skirt  of  his  coat,  and  so  presented  by  the  art 
of  the  sculptor  that  the  motionless  bronze 
seemed  more  alive  than  most  of  the  ordinary 
men  and  women  who  clustered  about  its 
base.  Here,  I  thought,  was  the  fit  memorial 
of  the  man  who  had  done  his  duty  in  the  long 
struggle  to  the  heroes  of  which  the  day  was 
sacred;  and  I  was  glad  that  the  marching 
thousands  should  pass  in  review  before  that 
mute  image  of  the  best  and  bravest  our 
country  can  bring  forth.  At  that  moment  a 
detachment  of  sailors  swung  into  view,  and 
cheers  of  hearty  greeting  broke  forth  on  all 
sides. 

As  I  loitered  musing,  a  battalion  of  our  lit- 
tle army  strode  by  us  in  turn,  with  soldierly 
bearing,  clad  in  no  gaudy  garb,  but  ready  for 
their  bloody  work;  ready  with  cold  steel  to 
give  a  cold  welcome  to  the  invading  foreigner, 
ready  with  a  prompt  volley  to  put  an  end  to 


lawless  strife  at  home.  After  an  interval  came 
the  first  ranks  of  the  citizen  soldiery,  trim  in 
their  workmanlike  uniforms,  with  stretchers, 
with  ambulances,  with  Gatling  guns.  One 
after  another  advanced  the  regiments  of  the 
city  militia,  and  no  man  need  doubt  that  they 
would  be  as  swift  now  to  go  forward  to  battle 
as  were  their  former  fellow-members  whose 
deeds  gave  them  the  right  to  bear  flags  em- 
blazoned with  more  than  one  battle  as  hard 
fought  as  Marathon  or  Philippi,  Fontenoy  or 
Waterloo.  As  they  swept  on  down  the  avenue 
in  the  morning  sunlight,  with  the  strident  mu- 
sic veiled  now  and  again  by  ringing  cheers, 
my  thoughts  went  back  to  the  many  other  thou- 
sands I  had  seen  go  down  that  avenue,  now 
more  than  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago,  coming 
from  the  pine  forests  and  the  granite  hills  of 
New  England,  and  going  to  the  silent  swamps 
and  the  dark  bayous  of  the  South.  In  those 
drear  days  of  doubt  I  had  watched  the  cease- 
less tramp  of  the  troops  down  that  avenue,  a 
thousand  at  a  time,  young,  earnest,  ardent; 
and  I  remembered  that  I  had  seen  them  re- 
turn but  a  scant  hundred  or  two,  it  may  be, 
worn  and  ragged,  foot-sore  and  heart-sick,  but 
resolute  yet  and  full  of  grit.  Death,  like  the 
maddened  peasants  in  the  strife  of  the  Jacque- 
rie, fights  with  a  scythe;  and  for  four  long 
years  Time  held  a  slow  glass  and  Death 
mowed  a  broad  swath.  There  is  many  a 
house  now  where  an  old  woman  cannot  hear 
the  trivial  notes  of  "  Tramp,  tramp,  tramp,  the 
boys  are  marching,"  without  a  sharp  pain  in 
the  throat  and  a  sudden  vision  of  the  prison- 
pen  at  Anderson ville.  No  doubt  there  is 
many  another  woman  south  of  that  Mason 
and  Dixon's  line  which  wras  washed  out  in 
the  blood  of  the  war  where  the  sentimental 
strains  of  "  My  Maryland  "  have  an  equal 
poignancy  and  an  equal  tenderness.  Shiloh 
and  Malvern  Hill  and  Gettysburg  are  names 
made  sacred  forever  by  the  deeds  done  there, 
and  by  the  dead  who  lie  there  side  by  side  in 
a  common  grave,  where  the  gray  cloth  and 
the  blue  have  faded  into  dust  alike,  and  there 
is  now  naught  to  tell  them  apart.  It  is  well 
that  a  spring  day,  fresh  after  rain,  and  fair 
with  blossoms,  should  help  to  keep  their  mem- 
ory sweet. 

Down  the  avenue  regiment  after  regiment 
went  on  briskly,  with  the  easy  pace  of  health 
and  enjoyment.  After  the  young  men  of  the 
militia  came  the  veterans,  with  flowers  for  their 
fallen  comrades.   Some  of  the  older  men  were 


A   DECORATION  DAY  RE  VERY. 


103 


in  carriages,  with  here  and  there  a  crutch 
across  the  seat ;  but  for  the  most  part  they 
walked,  keeping  time,  no  doubt,  though  with 
a  shorter  stride.  As  a  handful  of  brave  men 
filed  before  us,  bearing  aloft  the  tattered 
remnant  of  a  battle-flag,  I  raised  my  hat  with 
instinctive  reverence.  For  a  moment  the  ges- 
ture shielded  my  eyes  from  the  rays  of  the  sun, 
and  I  caught  sight  of  a  group  in  the  window 
of  a  house  opposite.  A  lady,  tall  and  stately, 
wearing  a  widow's  cap  above  her  gray  hair  as 
though  it  were  a  crown,  stood  in  the  center 
with  her  hands  on  the  shoulders  of  two  young 
men, —  her  sons,  beyond  all  question, —  stal- 
wart young  fellows,  with  features  at  once  fine 
and  strong,  bearing  themselves  with  manly 
grace.  I  looked,  and  I  recognized.  When  I 
lowered  my  eyes  again  to  the  procession  I  saw 
another  set  of  faces  that  I  knew  by  sight.  In  a 
carriage  sat  a  man  of  some  fifty  years,  stout, 
vulgar,  with  a  cigar  alight  in  the  coarse  hand 
which  rested  on  the  door  of  the  vehicle.  He 
had  a  shock  of  hair,  once  reddish  and  now 
grizzling  to  an  unclean  white.  He  wore  in  his 
buttonhole  the  button  of  the  Grand  Army  of 
the  Republic.  In  the  open  barouche  with  him 
were  three  youngish  men,  noisy  in  laughter  — 
apparently  professional  politicians  of  the  baser 
sort.  The  man  bowed  effusively,  with  a  broad 
and  unctuous  smile,  when  he  saw  a  friend  on 
the  sidewalk;  and  the  crowd  about  me  recog- 
nized him,  and  called  him  by  name  one  to 
another ;  and  a  little  knot  of  young  fellows  on 
the  corner  raised  a  cheer. 

I  knew  both  groups,  the  unclean  creature 
in  the  carriage  and  the  noble  lady  in  the 
window  above  him.  I  knew  that  both  were 
survivals  of  the  war. 

As  the  procession  passed  on,  I  could  hear 
an  occasional  cheer  run  along  the  line  of  spec- 
tators when  one  or  another  recognized  the 
politician.  I  was  not  surprised,  for  the  man's 
popularity  with  a  portion  of  the  people  is 
patent  to  all  of  us.  He  was  a  soldier  who  had 
never  fired  a  shot,  a  colonel  who  had  never 
seen  the  enemy.  His  tactical  skill  had  been 
shown  in  the  securing  of  a  detail  for  himself 
where  there  was  chance  of  profit  with  no  risk 
of  danger.  His  strategy  had  been  to  secure  the 
good  word  of  those  who  dispensed  the  good 
things  of  life. 

While  others  were  battling  for  the  country 
he  was  looking  out  for  himself.  When  the  war 
was  over  he  presented  his  claims  for  recog- 
nition, and  he  was  sent  as  consul  to  the  Ori- 
ent. In  due  time  there  came  across  the  ocean 
rumors  of  scandals,  and  an  investigation  was 
ordered ;  whereupon  he  resigned,  and  the  mat- 
ter was  never  probed.  Then  he  went  into 
politics :  he  was  ready  of  speech  and  loud- 
mouthed ;  he  flattered  the  mob,  believing  that 


in  politics-  the  Blarney-stone  is  the  stepping- 
stone  to  success.  He  never  paused  to  weigh 
his  words  when  he  assailed  an  opponent,  be- 
lieving that  in  politics  billingsgate  is  the  gate 
of  success.  He  was  prompt  to  set  people  by 
the  ears  that  he  might  lead  them  by  the 
nose  the  more  readily.  As  though  to  make 
up  for  his  delinquencies  during  the  struggle, 
he  was  now  untiring  in  his  abuse  of  the 
Southern  people,  and  his  denunciation  of 
them  was  always  violent  and  virulent.  In 
every  election  he  besought  his  fellow-citizens 
to  vote  as  they  had  shot.  He  was  unfailingly 
bitter  in  his  abuse  of  those  who  had  fought 
for  the  cause  of  the  South.  He  was,  in  short, 
a  specimen  of  the  scum  which  may  float  on 
the  surface  whenever  there  is  an  upheaval  of 
the  deep. 

Brutal  in  political  debate  and  brazen  in  polit- 
ical chicanery,  he  was  a  fit  leader  for  the  band 
of  hirelings  he  had  organized  with  no  small 
skill.  His  position  was  not  unlike  that  of  the 
condottieri  of  the  foreign  mercenaries  in  the  me- 
dieval quarrels  of  the  Italian  republics.  Like 
them,  he  led  a  compact  body,  prompt  to  obey 
orders  so  long  as  it  received  the  pay  and  had 
hopes  of  the  plunder  for  which  it  was  organ- 
ized. Although  he  belonged  nominally  to  one 
of  the  two  great  parties  who  contended  for  the 
control  of  the  nation,  he  was  always  ready  to 
turn  his  forces  against  it  if  his  pay  and  his  pro- 
portion of  the  spoils  of  office  failed  to  satisfy 
himself  and  his  men-at-arms;  or  even  in  re- 
venge for  a  slight,  and  in  hope  of  higher  re- 
muneration from  the  other  side. 

For  me,  as  I  stood  on  the  corner  under 
Farragut's  statue  and  watched  the  veterans  file 
past,  the  knowledge  of  this  man's  career,  and  the 
sight  of  his  presence  among  those  who  had 
fought  a  good  fight  for  a  high  motive,  seemed 
to  tarnish  the  sacred  occasion  and  to  stain  the 
glory  of  the  morning.  Again  I  looked  up  at  the 
window  where  I  had  seen  the  lady  with  her  two 
sons.  She  was  still  there,  leaning  forward  a 
little,  as  though  in  involuntary  excitement,  and 
one  hand  clenched  the  arm  of  the  soldierly 
young  fellow  at  her  right.  The  sight  of  those 
three  refreshed  me,  for  I  knew  who  they  were, 
and  what  they  stood  for  in  the  history  of  our 
country  —  a  shining  example  in  the  past  and 
a  beacon  of  hope  for  the  future.  The  widow's 
cap  which  crowns  the  brow  of  that  mother 
brought  up  before  me  the  memory  of  a  deed 
as  noble  as  it  was  simple. 

A  fife-and-drum  corps  of  boys  dressed  as 
sailors  preceded  a  model  of  a  monitor  mounted 
on  wheels  and  artfully  adorned  with  flowers 
and  wreaths.  Behind  this  came  the  scanty 
score  of  old  sailors  who  had  formed  themselves 
into  Post  Rodman  R.  Hardy.  When  they  came 
abreast  of  the  window  where  the  lady  stood 


io4 


A    DECORATION  DAY  RE  VERY. 


with  her  two  sons,  they  looked  up  and  cheered. 
The  eyes  of  Captain  Hardy's  widow  had  filled 
with  tears  when  she  caught  sight  of  his  old 
comrades ;  and  when  they  cheered  her  and  her 
boys  her  face  flushed  and  the  arm  which  rested 
on  her  son's  trembled.  She  bowed,  the  two 
young  men  raised  their  hats,  and  the  post 
passed  on  down  the  avenue  to  perform  their  sad 
office;  though  they  might  not  deck  with  flow- 
ers the  grave  of  their  old  commander,  for 
he  lies  buried  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  and 
great  guns  were  firing  many  a  salute  with  shot 
and  shell  when  his  body  was  lowered  into  its 
everlasting  resting-place. 

I  have  heard  it  said  that  a  soldier's  trade  is 
learning  how  to  kill  and  how  to  die,  and  that 
how  he  lives  is  little  matter.  Captain  Hardy 
lived  like  a  man,  like  a  gentleman,  like  a 
Christian  ;  and  he  died  like  a  hero.  He  came 
of  a  generation  of  sailors.  His  great-grand- 
father had  sailed  with  the  fleet  under  Amherst 
when  Louisburg  was  taken  in  1758.  His 
grandfather  had  been  a  midshipman  with  Paul 
Jones  in  the  Bonhomme  Richard.  His  father 
served  on  "  Old  Ironsides  "  when  the  Constitu- 
tion captured  the  Guerriere.  He  himself  had 
gone  to  sea  in  time  to  take  part  in  the  siege  of 
Vera  Cruz.  When  the  war  broke  out  he  had 
been  married  but  three  years.  He  was  on  the 
Cumberland  when  the  Merrimac  sank  her. 
While  the  new  monitors  were  building  he  had 
a  few  brief  weeks  with  his  wife  and  his  two 
baby  boys.  When  the  Onteora  was  finished 
he  was  a  captain,  and  he  was  appointed  to 
take  command. 

And  there  was  no  monitor  which  did  better 
service  or  had  more  hard  work  than  the  On- 
teora. Just  before  the  grand  attack  on  Fort 
Davis  he  ran  under  the  guns  of  a  Confederate 
battery  to  shell  a  cruiser  which  had  retreated 
up  the  river  behind  the  strip  of  land  on  which 
the  earthworks  stood.  Regardless  of  the  fire 
from  the  battery,  which  bade  fair  to  hammer  his 
ship  till  it  might  become  unmanageable,  he 
trained  his  guns  on  the  cruiser.  He  had  no 
more  than  got  the  range  when  a  fog  settled 
down  and  hid  the  combatants  from  each  other. 
The  battery  ceased  firing  or  aimed  wildly  a 
few  chance  shots.  The  monitor,  relying  on 
the  accuracy  of  its  gunners,  continued  to  send 
shell  after  shell  through  the  thick  wall  of 
fog  to  the  invisible  place  where  the  enemy's 
ship  lay.  When  the  fog  lifted,  the  cruiser 
was  on  fire  ;  and  then  the  monitor  fell  back 
out  of  the  range  of  the  guns  of  the  battery, 
having  done  the  work  Captain  Hardy  had 
set  it  to  do. 

The  next  day  came  the  grand  assault  on 
Fort  Davis.  The  admiral  ordered  the  Onteora 
to  follow  the  flagship  in  the  attack.  The  chan- 
nel was  defended  not  only  by  the  cannon  of 


the  fort  itself  and  of  its  supporting  earthworks 
and  by  a  flotilla  of  gunboats,  but  also  by  hid- 
den torpedoes,  the  position  of  which  was 
wholly  unknown  even  to  the  pilots,  Union 
men  of  the  port  who  had  volunteered  to  guide 
our  vessels  through  the  tortuous  windings  of 
the  entrance.  The  iron  ship  was  made  ready 
for  battle;  its  deck  was  sunk  level  with  the 
surface  of  the  sea;  and  nothing  projected 
but  the  revolving  turret,  with  its  two  huge 
guns.  In  the  little  box  of  a  pilot-house 
Captain  Hardy  took  his  place  with  the  pilot. 
The  admiral  gave  the  signal  to  advance,  and 
the  Onteora  followed  in  the  wake  of  the  flag- 
ship. 

The  first  turning  of  the  channel  was  made 
safely,  and  the  monitor  was  at  last  full  under 
the  fire  of  the  fort.  The  turret  revolved  slowly, 
and  both  guns  were  discharged  against  a  pert 
gunboat  which  had  ventured  out  beyond  the 
protection  of  the  fort.  The  second  shot  struck 
the  steam-chest  of  the  gunboat,  and  it  blew 
up  and  drifted  at  the  mercy  of  the  current. 
Still  the  admiral  advanced,  and  the  Onteora 
followed.  Then  a  sudden  shock  was  felt, 
there  was  a  dull  roar,  the  monitor  shivered 
from  stem  to  stern,  and  began  to  settle.  A 
torpedo  had  blown  a  hole  in  the  bottom  of  the 
boat,  and  the  Onteora  was  sinking.  Almost  at 
the  same  time  a  shot  from  Fort  Davis  struck 
the  turret  and  a  fragment  smote  Captain  Hardy 
and  tore  off  his  right  arm.  In  the  scant  sec- 
onds after  the  explosion  of  the  torpedo,  before 
the  shuddering  ship  lurched  down,  half  a  score 
of  men  escaped  from  the  turret  and  flung  them- 
selves into  the  river.  The  captain  had  barely 
time  to  climb  into  the  open  air  when  his  ship 
went  down  beneath  him.  When  he  arose  from 
the  vortex  of  whirling  waters  his  unwounded 
hand  grasped  a  chance  fragment  of  wood, 
which  served  to  sustain  him  despite  the  weak- 
ness from  his  open  wound.  He  found  himself 
by  the  side  of  the  pilot,  who  was  struggling 
vainly  with  the  waves,  his  strength  almost 
spent. 

"  Can't  you  swim  ?  "  asked  Captain  Hardy. 

"Only  a  little,"  answered  the  pilot;  "and  I 
am  almost  gone  now,  I  fear." 

"Take  this  bit  of  wood,"  said  the  sailor. 

The  pilot  reached  out  his  arm  and  with  de- 
spairing fingers  gripped  the  broken  plank.  It 
was  too  small  to  support  two  men,  and  Captain 
Hardy  released  his  hold.  He  sought  to  sustain 
himself  with  one  hand,  and  for  a  little  he  suc- 
ceeded. Then  his  strength  failed  him,  and  at 
last  he  went  under  almost  where  the  Onteora 
had  sunk  beneath  him.  The  battle  raged  above; 
shell  from  ship  after  ship  answered  shell  from 
the  fort  and  the  batteries;  another  ironclad 
took  up  the  work  of  the  Onteora  ;  brave  hearts 
and  quick  heads  were  at  work  on  sea  and  on 


A   NIGHT  SCENE. 


io5 


shore;  but  Rodman  Hardy  was  dead  at  the 
bottom  of  the  river,  leaving  to  his  widow  and 
his  sons  the  heritage  of  a  manly  death. 

The  widow's  cap  which  the  young  wife  took 
that  night  she  has  never  discarded  to  this  day. 
His  sons  she  has  brought  up  to  follow  in  their 
father's  footsteps.  One  has  already  begun  to 
made  his  mark  in  the  navy,  having  been  gradu- 
ated from  Annapolis,  high  up  in  his  class.  The 
other  is  a  lawyer,  who  is  solving  for  himself 
the  problem  of  the  scholar  in  politics.  Al- 
though not  yet  thirty,  he  has  spent  two  terms 
in  the  legislature  of  the  State,  where  he  has 
done  yeoman  service  for  the  city. 

The  parade  was  over  at  last, —  for  the  Rod- 


man R.  Hardy  Post  had  been  one  of  the  latest 
in  line, —  and  I  turned  away  across  the  square. 
The  sight  of  the  widow  with  her  two  sons  had 
cleansed  the  atmosphere  from  the  miasma  that 
trailed  behind  the  politician  as  he  rode  by  me 
in  his  vulgar  barouche.  The  memory  of  a  great 
deed  is  an  oasis  in  the  vista  of  life,  and  the 
recollection  of  Captain  Hardy's  death  made 
the  day  seem  fairer.  The  sunshine  flooded 
the  streets  with  molten  gold.  A  pair  of  young 
sparrows  flirted  across  the  park  before  me  and 
alighted  on  a  bough  above  my  head.  From 
over  the  housetops  came  floating  echoes  of 
"John  Brown's  Body  "  and  "  Marching  through 
Georgia." 

Brander  Matthews, 


A   NIGHT   SCENE. 


HOW  I  do  love  a  wilding  bank 
Where  no  wind  stirs, 
So  bravely  hedged  by  rank  on  rank 
Of  junipers ! 

The  glint  of  waters  seen  afar 

Is  eve's  delight ; 
With  dark  a  solitary  star 

Begins  the  night. 

It  cannot  gaze  on  such  a  nook 

For  long  alone, 
But  beckons  up  a  host  to  look 

And  make  it  known. 


These  call  the  moon  her  toppling  horn 

Of  light  to  bring. 
She  wakes  the  birds  that  think  it  morn 


And  time  to  sing. 


Though  morn  it  is  not,  such  a  night 

Yet  bids  arise 
All  wakeful  souls  to  the  delight 

In  those  pure  eyes. 

All  souls  desire — rightly  to  see 

A  sight  like  this — 
Some  sweet  accordant  company 

To  share  their  bliss. 


Who  —  who  but  thee  shall  on  my  breast 

Lean  lightly,  love, 
And  let  her  wistful  eyes  still  rest 

On  those  above  ? 


Jafties  Herbert  Morse. 


Vol.  XL.— 14. 


THEODORE    O'HARA. 


I 


WDi^'^si^^' 


O  HARA  S    GRAVESTONE. 


T  is  purposed  here 
to  sketch  briefly  the 
life  of  a  Southern  sol- 
dier who  builded  for 
himself  an  enduring 
fame  as  a  poet,  upon 
four  lines. 

These  lines,  to- 
gether with  other 
stanzas  of  the  poem 
in  which  they  occur, 
may  be  seen  in  the 
national  cemeteries 
of  the  United  States, 
cast  in  iron  andplaced 
along  the  silent  ways  which  wander  among 
the  dead,  to  commemorate  the  sleeping  brave 
of  North  and  South  alike ;  and  these  four 
immortal  lines,  which  have  sufficed  to  secure 
their  author's  name  a  place  in  the  sacred 
annals,  are  inscribed  also  over  the  gateway 
of  the  National  Cemetery  at  Washington. 
Though  the  man  who  wrote  them  fought 
upon  the  opposing  side,  even  to  the  end,  these 
lines  seem  no  whit  less  fitting  here  than  when 
we  find  them  placed  above  the  wearers  of  the 
gray  who  rest  in  the  cemetery  at  New  Orleans. 
Thus  does  the  spirit  of  poesy  triumph  over 
material  issues,  appealing  to  something  within 
us  before  which  mere  differences  of  political 
opinion,  strong  and  abiding  as  they  seem  to 
be,  sink  out  of  sight  and  are  lost  forever.  To 
forget  the  questions  upon  which  they  have  been 
divided  to  their  hurt,  let  men  cherish  those 
truths  upon  which  they  are  one. 

Theodore  O'Hara,  soldier,  poet,  and  jour- 
nalist, was  born  in  Danville,  Kentucky,  Febru- 
ary ii,  1820.  He  was  the  son  of  Kane  O'Hara, 
an  Irish  gentleman  who,  after  having  left  his 
own  land  on  account  of  political  oppression, 
became  distinguished  in  Kentucky  as  an  edu- 
cator of  great  learning  and  ability.  The  fam- 
ily finally  settled  in  the  vicinity  of  Frankfort, 
Kentucky.  After  being  prepared  under  the 
teaching  of  his  father,  Theodore  was  sent  to 
St.  Joseph's  College  at  Bardstown,  Kentucky, 
where  he  graduated  with  high  honors.  After 
this  he  practiced  law  for  a  time,  but  in  1845 
he  held  a  position  in  the  Treasury  Depart- 
ment at  Washington,  and  the  next  year  was 
appointed  captain  in  the  old  United  States 
Army. 

He  served  through  the  Mexican  War  and  was 


breveted  major  on  the  field  for  gallantry  and 
meritorious  conduct.  He  then  practiced  law 
in  Washington  for  a  time,  but  when  Lopez 
attempted  the  liberation  of  Cuba,  O'Hara 
joined  the  expedition  and  led  a  regiment  at 
Cardenas,  in  which  battle  he  was  severely 
wounded.  Subsequently  he  was  concerned  in 
Walker's  adventurous  expedition  to  Central 
America.  He  afterwards  conducted  several 
newspapers  in  the  South  with  great  ability 
and  brilliancy — among  them  the  "  Mobile 
Register." 

At  the  beginning  of  the  War  of  the  Rebel- 
lion he  joined  the  service  at  once,  and  was 
put  in  command  of  the  fort  at  the  entrance 
of  Mobile  Bay,  which  he  bravely  defended 
until  ordered  to  retire.  After  this  he  served 
on  Albert  Sidney  Johnston's  staff,  and  was  be- 
side that  officer  when  he  fell  at  Shiloh.  Later 
on  he  was  chief-of-staff  to  General  John  C. 
Breckinridge,  and  was  in  the  famous  charge 
at  Stone  River.  He  served  as  chief-of-staff 
until  the  end  of  the  war.  After  the  war  he  en- 
gaged in  some  commercial  transactions  in 
Columbus,  Georgia,  but  finally  retired  to  a 
plantation  on  the  Alabama  side  of  the  Chatta- 
hoochee River,  where  he  died  of  fever  on 
the  7th  of  June,  1867.  In  1873  the  legis- 
lature of  Kentucky  provided  for  the  bringing 
back  of  his  body  to  his  native  State,  and  in 
1874  he  was  buried  with  military  honors  in  the 
State  Cemetery  at  Frankfort.  This  is  a  brief 
record  of  O'Hara's  life. 

Fond  of  adventure,  full  of  restless  energy, 
and  of  a  daring  disposition,  he  was  essentially 
the  soldier  of  fortune,  possessed  of  the  im- 
pulsive spirit  which  induces  one  to  stake  all  on 
the  hazard  of  a  die  rather  than  to  attain  by 
painful  and  persistent  effort.  But  rich  as  he 
seems  to  have  been  in  the  great  and  many- 
gifts  of  mind  and  heart  which  distinguished 
him,  I  cannot  see  that  O'Hara  was  ambitious — 
unless  for  military  distinction.  It  may  be  that 
the  Muses  did  haunt  his  every  step,  weaving 
about  each  scene  the  witchery  of  idealism  and 
romance  so  enchanting  to  the  poetic  mind,  but 
they  certainly  did  not  compel  him  to  put  into 
living  verse  the  varied  and  picturesque  expe- 
riences through  which  he  must  have  passed. 
He  wrote  but  little.  What  dreams  and  fancies 
he  may  have  failed  to  transcribe  one  can  only 
conjecture,  and  these  conjectures  must  be  en- 
tertained in  silence.    The  age  is  impatient  of 


106 


THEODORE    O'HARA. 


107 


mysteries,  and  listens  with  an  incredulous  ear 
to  speculations  about  unknown  possibilities,  or 
to  intuitive  guesses  which  it  does  not  under- 
stand. The  world  is  a  stickler  for  the  tangi- 
bility of  actual  performance.  It  is,  therefore, 
with  actual  performance  that  one  must  deal 
here. 

O'Hara  wrote  only  two  poems  which  have 
been  preserved  to  history  —  one  entitled  "  The 
Bivouac  of  the  Dead,"  and  one,  "  A  Dirge 
for  the  Brave  Old  Pioneer."  These  are  identi- 
cal in  the  manner  of  their  construction,  and 
they  are  both  elegiac  and  commemorative 
poems.  He  seems  to  have  written  only  when 
special  demand  was  made  upon  him,  and  then 
only  in  this  one  vein.  It  is  upon  this  first- 
mentioned  poem,  "  The  Bivouac  of  the  Dead," 
that  O'Hara's  claim  for  immortality  must 
rest.  It  was  written  to  commemorate  the 
death  of  his  comrades  who  fell  in  Mexico,  and 
was  read  by  him  upon  the  occasion  of  their 
burial  in  the  plot  of  ground  set  apart  by  the 
State  for  their  reception  in  the  cemetery  at 
Frankfort.  O'Hara  now  sleeps  within  the  same 
ground,  and  may  be  said  to  have  sung  his  own 
memorial,  standing  upon  his  unmade  grave. 
The  opening  stanza  of  this  poem,  especially  the 
second  quatrain  of  it,  remains  unsurpassed  in 
its  own  field. 


The  muffled  drum's  sad 
roll  has  beat 
The  soldier's  last  tat- 
too ; 
No  more  on  life's  parade 
shall  meet 
That  brave  and  fallen 
few. 
On      Fame's      eternal 
camping-ground 
Their  silent  tents  are 
spread, 
But  Glory  guards,  with 
solemn  round, 
The  bivouac  of    the 
dead. 

In  my  opinion  no 
amount  of  tinkering 
could  improve  these 
last  four  verses.  They 
have  been  found  fault 
with  by  some,  who 
contend  that  there 
is  no  truth  in  the 
similes  presented, 
that  soldiers  do  not 
pitch  their  tents  when 
they  bivouac  for  the 
night;  but  as  the 
first  couplet   plainly 


soldiers'   monument  and  tomb  ok  o'haka. 


ENGRAVED      BY     H.      VELTEN. 


FROM     A     PRINT     FROM     A     DAGUERREOTYPE. 


THEODORE    O  HARA. 


THEODORE    O'HARA. 


109 


points  the  mind  to  an  ideal  and  eternal 
camping-ground,  the  image  of  the  "  silent 
tents "  follows  naturally,  while  the  second 
couplet  refers  to  the  sleeping  bodies  when  they 
bivouac  for  the  night  of  death,  only  until  the 
reveille  shall  sound.  The  technical  correctness 
of  these  similes  is  beyond  question ;  and  as  to 
their  higher  poetic  sense,  their  ideal  beauty 
must  be  apparent  to  every  appreciative  mind. 
To  one  who  cannot  perceive  this,  arguments 
on  the  subject  can  mean  nothing. 

Some  incidents  of  interest  naturally  attach 
themselves  to  the  history  of  this  poem.  There 
is  a  peculiar  completeness  to  the  circle  of  events 
pertaining  to  it.  O'Hara  —  himself  a  soldier 
—  commemorates  in  it  the  death  of  his  com- 
panions in  battle,  and  reads  it  at  their  burial. 
After  long  years,  when  he  had  served  through 
another  war,  he  is  himself  gathered  to  rest  be- 
side them,  and  his  poem,  which  consecrated 
the  spot,  has  become  a  fitting  and  enduring 
monument  for  himself.  It  is  not  of  equal 
merit  throughout,  but  there  are  many  lines 
only  less  stirring  and  impressive  than  those 
already  given. 

The  neighing  troop,  the  flashing  blade 

The  bugle's  stirring  blast, 
The  charge,  the  dreadful  cannonade. 

These  lines  suggest  the  onward,  resistless  rush 
of  a  mountain  torrent;  the  images  which  appear 
before  the  mind  are  quickly  replaced.  The 
picture  is  fleeting  but  vivid,  and  the  touch  is 
broad  and  masterful.  Note  how  the  emphasis 
is  thrown  upon  the  word  "  charge  " :  one  can 
hear  the  command  ringing  along  the  expec- 
tant lines,  and  can  well  imagine  how  the  thrill 
of  battle  must  have  shot  through  each  heart 
within 

Those  breasts  that  never  more  may  feel 
The  rapture  of  the  fight. 

The  other  poem  contains  nothing  approaching 
the  verses  I  have  quoted. 

The  place  of  O'Hara's  burial  is  worth  tran- 
scribing. I  will,  however,  attempt  but  a  glimpse 
of  it  here.  At  the  moment  in  which  I  write, 
the  slanting  sunlight  of  a  waning  November 
day  comes  across  the  marble-dotted  slopes  and 
mounds,  which  are  as  green  as  an  April  hill,  and 
the  soft  south  wind  makes  a  low  moaning  in 
the  needled  branches  of  the  pines,  whose  dark 
clusters  are  here  and  there  relieved  by  the  pale 
dead  gold  of  the  changing  cypress  and  the 
deeper  color  of  the  shimmering  beech,  and 
at  rarer  intervals  by  leafless  dogwood  trees  all 
aglow  with  scarlet  berries.  Out  under  the 
darkening  masses,  through  the  half-open  bar- 
rier of  tree  trunks,  one  may  catch  glimpses  of 
the  far-off  hills,  above  which  burns  the  golden 
Vol.  XL.—  15. 


glory  of  the  sinking  sun.  At  times  there  comes 
the  faint  tinkling  of  distant  bells  from  where 
the  cattle  return  to  the  valley,  in  which  sleeps 
the  unseen  city.  Far  up  above  the  fine  tracing 
of  the  naked  elms,  gold-tipped  clouds  of  delicate 
purple  drift  through  the  gray  green  of  the  sky. 
Close  by — beside  the  tomb  of  O'Hara,  with 
its  sculptured  sword  and  scabbard  and  encir- 
cling wreath  of  oak  and  laurel  —  bends  a  rose- 
bush whose  late  blooms  touch  listlessly  with 
their  pale  lips  the  cold  and  unresponsive  mar- 
ble. A  little  way  off  rises  the  great  memorial 
shaft  surmounted  by  marble  cannons  and  flags, 
and  above  these  by  the  winged  figure  of  Vic- 
tory; and  here,  among  the  graves  of  those  who 
once  listened  to  their  angry  roar,  stand  the 
blackened  and  silent  guns  which  belched  forth 
death  and  flame  at  Buena  Vista  and  Chapul- 
tepec  —  grim  guardians  now  of  the  quiet  war- 
riors who  have  met  the  last  enemy.  A  soft 
radiance  suffuses  the  scene,  and  the  last  rays 
of  the  sun  just  touch  the  wings  of  Victory 
where  she  seems  to  sway  against  the  clouds. 
It  is  here  that  the  full  import  and  beauty  of 
O'Hara's  lines  may  be  felt ;  for,  as  the  hush 
of  evening  deepens,  one  can  fancy  he  hears 
the  slow  and  measured  tread  as  the  majestic 
figure  of  Glory  keeps  on  her  ceaseless  round 
by  this  bivouac  of  the  dead,  and  afar  on  the 
eternal  camping-ground  of  Fame  the  imagina- 
tion pictures  the  "silent  tents"  in  which  the 
departed  souls  rest  forever  upon  the  peaceful 
fields  of  the  hereafter. 

O'Hara  is  lovingly  remembered  by  thou- 
sands who  knew  him  personally.  He  was  ge- 
nial and  generous  in  disposition,  and  possess- 
ing a  mind  well  stored  both  from  books  and 
with  the  experiences  of  an  adventurous  life,  he 
is  said  to  have  been  exceedingly  happy  and 
brilliant  in  conversation,  having  a  clear  sense 
of  humor,  a  nimble  wit,  and  a  quick  tongue  at 
repartee.  He  was  the  life  and  soul  of  many  a 
camp-fire  circle  in  the  wars,  and  the  many  va- 
ried incidents  of  his  life  which  cannot  be  given 
here,  for  lack  of  space,  all  show  him  to  have 
been  utterly  fearless.  His  impulsive  and  daring 
nature  made  him  thirst  continually  for  the  ex- 
citements of  danger,  and  gave  him  relish  for 
the  chances  of  the  fight.  Sensitive  and  refined 
himself,  his  manner  towards  others,  while 
characterized  by  an  inherent,  self-respecting 
pride,  was  sufficiently  unreserved  and  hearty, 
and  without  the  tinge  of  any  belittling  vanity 
or  shadow  of  ostentation.  He  was  something 
above  the  medium  in  stature,  slender,  graceful, 
and  well  proportioned  in  figure,  very  erecj;  and 
military  in  his  bearing,  and  quick,  wiry,  and 
decisive  in  his  movements.  His  hair  was  black, 
jet  black,  and  his  eyes  so  nearly  so  that  there  was 
but  a  shade  of  difference.  They  were  full  of 
alert  intelligence,  indicating  in  every  glance 


no 


THEODORE    O'HARA. 


the  vital  force  and  restlessness  of  his  nature. 
His  nose  was  straight  and  his  mouth  was 
somewhat  small;  the  lips,  seeming  always 
close  pressed  together  or  slightly  "  pursed," 
were  almost  feminine  in  their  clearness  and 
delicacy  of  outline,  but  showed  great  firmness 
and  determination  as  well  as  refinement.  His 
head  was  nicely  poised  and  well  set  on  his 
shoulders,  and  his  hands  and  feet  were  very 
small  and  well  cared  for.  He  died  seemingly 
unconscious  of  his  highest  gifts,  his  greatest 
fault  being  his  neglecting  to  follow  steadily 
some  definite  aim  —  if  that  be  a  fault.  Since 
then  the  hand  of  Time,  grappling  for  hidden 
treasure  amidst  the  ruins  of  lost  and  buried 
incident  and  circumstance,  has  saved  from  the 
wreck  of  this  life  a  few  lines  only, —  written 
when  he  was  thinking  more  of  others  than  of 
himself, — but  lines  of  such  transcendent  merit 
that  they  have  fixed  the  name  of  Theodore 
O'Hara  in  history. 

Robert  Bums  Wilson. 


THE  BIVOUAC  OF  THE  DEAD. 

BY    THEODORE    o'HARA. 

The  muffled  drum's  sad  roll  has  beat 

The  soldier's  last  tattoo  ; 
No  more  on  life's  parade  shall  meet 

That  brave  and  fallen  few. 
On  Fame's  eternal  camping-ground 

Their  silent  tents  are  spread, 
But  Glory  guards,  with  solemn  round, 

The  bivouac  of  the  dead. 

No  rumor  of  the  foe's  advance 

Now  swells  upon  the  wind  ; 
No  troubled  thought  at  midnight  haunts 

Of  loved  ones  left  behind  ; 
No  vision  of  the  morrow's  strife 

The  warrior's  dream  alarms  ; 
No  braying  horn  nor  screaming  fife 

At  dawn  shall  call  to  arms. 

Their  shivered  swords  are  red  with  rust, 

Their  plumed  heads  are  bowed  ; 
Their  haughty  banner,  trailed  in  dust, 

Is  now  their  martial  shroud. 
And  plenteous  funeral  tears  have  washed 

The  red  stains  from  each  brow, 
And  the  proud  forms,  by  battle  gashed, 

Are  free  from  anguish  now. 

The  neighing  troop,  the  flashing  blade, 

The  bugle's  stirring  blast, 
The  charge,  the  dreadful  cannonade, 

The  din  and  shout  are  past ; 
Nor  war's  wild  note,  nor  glory's  peal, 

Shall  thrill  with  fierce  delight 
Those  breasts  that  never  more  may  feel 

The  rapture  of  the  fight. 

Like  the  fierce  northern  hurricane 
That  sweeps  his  great  plateau, 


Flushed  with  the  triumph  yet  to  gain, 

Came  down  the  serried  foe. 
Who  heard  the  thunder  of  the  fray 

Break  o'er  the  field  beneath, 
Knew  well  the  watchword  of  that  day 

Was  "Victory  or  death." 

Long  has  the  doubtful  conflict  raged 

O'er  all  that  stricken  plain, 
For  never  fiercer  fight  had  waged 

The  vengeful  blood  of  Spain  ; 
And  still  the  storm  of  battle  blew, 

Still  swelled  the  gory  tide  ; 
Not  long  our  stout  old  chieftain  knew, 

Such  odds  his  strength  could  bide. 

'T  was  in  that  hour  his  stern  command 

Called  to  a  martyr's  grave 
The  flower  of  his  beloved  land, 

The  nation's  flag  to  save. 
By  rivers  of  their  fathers'  gore 

His  first-born  laurels  grew, 
And  well  he  deemed  the  sons  would  pour 

Their  lives  for  glory  too. 

Full  many  a  norther's  breath  has  swept 

O'er  Angostura's  plain  — 
And  long  the  pitying  sky  has  wept 

Above  the  moldering  slain. 
The  raven's  scream,  or  eagle's  flight, 

Or  shepherd's  pensive  lay, 
Alone  awakes  each  sullen  height 

That  frowned  o'er  that  dread  fray. 

Sons  of  the  Dark  and  Bloody  Ground, 

Ye  must  not  slumber  there, 
Where  stranger  steps  and  tongues  resound 

Along  the  heedless  air. 
Your  own  proud  land's  heroic  soil 

Shall  be  your  fitter  grave  ; 
She  claims  from  War  his  richest  spoil  — 

The  ashes  of  her  brave. 

Thus  'neath  their  parent  turf  they  rest, 

Far  from  the  gory  field, 
Borne  to  a  Spartan  mother's  breast 

On  many  a  bloody  shield  ; 
The  sunshine  of  their  native  sky 

Smiles  sadly  on  them  here, 
And  kindred  eyes  and  hearts  watch  by 

The  heroes'  sepulcher. 

Rest  on,  embalmed  and  sainted  dead, 

Dear  as  the  blood  ye  gave, 
No  impious  footstep  here  shall  tread 

The  herbage  of  your  grave  ; 
Nor  shall  your  glory  be  forgot 

While  Fame  her  record  keeps, 
Or  Honor  points  the  hallowed  spot 

Where  Valor  proudly  sleeps. 

Yon  marble  minstrel's  voiceless  stone 

In  deathless  song  shall  tell 
When  many  a  vanquished  age  hath  flown, 

The  story  how  ye  fell ; 
Nor  wreck,  nor  change,  nor  winter's  blight, 

Nor  Time's  remorseless  doom, 
Shall  dim  one  ray  of  glory's  light 

That  gilds  your  deathless  tomb. 


INSTITUTIONS    FOR    THE    ARID    LANDS. 


NDUSTRIAL  civiliza- 
tion in  America  began 
with  the  building  of  log 
cabins.  Where  Pied- 
mont plain  merges  into 
coastal  plain,  there 
rivers  are  transformed 
—  dashing  waters  are 
changed  to  tidal  waters 
and  navigation  heads, 
and  there  "  powers  "  are  found.  Beside  these 
transformed  waters,  in  a  narrow  zone  from 
north  to  south  across  the  United  States,  the 
first  real  settlement  of  the  country  began  by 
the  building  of  log-cabin  homes.  This  first 
cabin  zone  ultimately  became  the  site  of  the 
great  cities  of  the  East  —  Boston,  New  York, 
Philadelphia,  Baltimore,  Washington,  Rich- 
mond, Charleston,  and  Augusta;  and  steadily, 
while  the  cities  were  growing,  the  log-cabin 
zone  moved  westward  until  it  reached  the  bor- 
der of  the  Great  Plains,  which  it  never  crossed. 
The  arid  region  of  the  West  was  settled  by 
gold  and  silver  hunters  aggregated  in  com- 
paratively large  bodies.  Their  shanties  of  logs, 
slabs,  boards,  and  adobes  were  speedily  re- 
placed by  the  more  costly  structures  of  towns 
and  cities,  which  suddenly  sprang  into  exist- 
ence where  gold  or  silver  was  found.  These 
towns  and  cities  were  thus  scattered  promis- 
cuously through  the  mountain  land.  In  them 
avenues  of  trees  were  planted  and  parks  were 
laid  out,  and  about  them  gardens,  vineyards, 
and  orchards  were  cultivated.  From  this  hor- 
ticulture sprang  the  agriculture  of  the  region. 
In  the  East  the  log  cabin  was  the  beginning 
of  civilization ;  in  the  West,  the  miner's  camp. 
In  the  East  agriculture  began  with  the  settler's 
clearing;  in  the  West,  with  the  exploitation 
of  wealthy  men.  In  the  log-cabin  years  a  poor 
man  in  Ohio  might  clear  an  acre  at  a  time 
and  extend  his  potato-patch,  his  cornfield, 
and  his  meadow  from  year  to  year,  and  do  all 
with  his  own  hands  and  energy,  and  thus  hew 
his  way  from  poverty  to  plenty.  At  the  same 
time  his  wife  could  plant  hollyhocks,  sweet- 
williams,  marigolds,  and  roses  in  boxed  beds 
of  earth  around  the  cabin  door.  So  field  and 
garden  were  all  within  the  compass  of  a  poor 
man's  means,  his  own  love  of  industry,  and 
his  wife's  love  of  beauty.  In  western  Europe, 
where  our  civilization  was  born,  a  farmer  might 
carry  on  his  work  in  his  own  way,  on  his  own 
soil  or  on  the  land  of  his  feudal  lord,  and  in 
the  higher  phases  of  this  industry  he  could  him- 


self enjoy  the  products  of  his  labor,  subject  only 
to  taxes  and  rents.  Out  of  this  grew  the  mod- 
ern agriculture  with  which  we  are  so  familiar 
in  America,  where  the  farmer  owns  his  land, 
cultivates  the  soil  with  his  own  hands,  and 
reaps  the  reward  of  his  own  toil,  subject  only 
to  the  conditions  necessary  to  the  welfare  of 
the  body  politic. 

The  farming  of  the  arid  region  cannot  be 
carried  on  in  this  manner.  Individual  farmers 
with  small  holdings  cannot  sustain  themselves 
as  individual  men ;  for  the  little  farm  is,  per- 
chance, dependent  upon  the  waters  of  some 
great  river  that  can  be  turned  out  and  con- 
trolled from  year  to  year  only  by  the  combined 
labor  of  many  men.  And  in  modern  times 
great  machinery  is  used,  and  dams,  reservoirs, 
canals,  and  many  minor  hydraulic  appliances 
are  necessary.  These  cost  large  sums  of  money, 
and  in  their  construction  and  maintenance 
many  men  are  employed.  In  the  practice  of 
agriculture  by  irrigation  in  high  antiquity, 
men  were  organized  as  communal  bodies  or 
as  slaves  to  carry  on  such  operations  by  united 
labor.  Thus  the  means  of  obtaining  subsistence 
were  of  such  a  character  as  to  give  excuse  and 
cogent  argument  for  the  establishment  of  des- 
potism. The  soil  could  be  cultivated,  great 
nations  could  be  sustained,  only  by  the  organ- 
ization of  large  bodies  of  men  working  together 
on  the  great  enterprises  of  irrigation  under  des- 
potic rulers.  But  such  a  system  cannot  obtain 
in  the  United  States,  where  the  love  of  liberty 
is  universal. 

What,  then,  shall  be  the  organization  of 
this  new  industry  of  agriculture  by  irrigation  ? 
Shall  the  farmers  labor  for  themselves  and  own 
the  agricultural  properties  severally  ?  or  shall 
the  farmers  be  a  few  capitalists,  employing 
labor  on  a  large  scale,  as  is  done  in  the  great 
mines  and  manufactories  of  the  United  States  ? 
The  history  of  two  decades  of  this  industry 
exhibits  this  fact :  that  in  part  the  irrigated 
lands  are  owned  and  cultivated  by  men  hav- 
ing small  holdings,  but  in  larger  part  they  are 
held  in  great  tracts  by  capitalists,  and  the  ten- 
dency to  this  is  on  the  increase.  When  the 
springs  and  creeks  are  utilized  small  holdings 
are  developed,  but  when  the  rivers  are  taken 
out  upon  the  lands  great  holdings  are  acquired ; 
and  thus  the  farming  industries  of  the  West 
are  falling  into  the  hands  of  a  wealthy  few. 

Various  conditions  have  led  to  this.  In 
some  portions  of  the  arid  region,  especially  in 
California,  the  Spanish  land  grants  were  util- 


112 


INSTITUTIONS  FOR    THE   ARID   IANDS. 


ized  for  the  purpose  of  aggregating  large 
tracts  for  wholesale  farming.  Sometimes  the 
lands  granted  to  railroads  were  utilized  for  the 
same  purpose.  Then,  to  promote  the  irrigation 
of  this  desert  land,  an  act  was  passed  by  Con- 
gress giving  a  section  of  land  for  a  small  price 
to  any  man  who  would  irrigate  it.  Still  other 
lands  were  acquired  under  the  Homestead  Act, 
the  Preemption  Act,  and  the  Timber-Culture 
Act.  Through  these  privileges  title  could  be 
secured  to  two  square  miles  of  land  by  one 
individual.  Companies  wishing  to  engage  in 
irrigation  followed,  in  the  main,  one  of  two 
plans :  they  either  bought  the  lands  and  irri- 
gated their  own  tracts,  or  they  constructed 
irrigating  works  and  supplied  water  to  the 
farmers.  Through  the  one  system  land  mo- 
nopoly is  developed ;  through  the  other,  water 
monopoly. 

Such  has  been  the  general  course  of  the  de- 
velopment of  irrigation.  But  there  are  three 
notable  exceptions.  The  people  of  the  South- 
west came  originally,  by  the  way  of  Mexico, 
from  Spain,  where  irrigation  and  the  institu- 
tions necessary  for  its  control  had  been  devel- 
oping from  high  antiquity,  and  these  people 
well  understood  that  their  institutions  must  be 
adapted  to  their  industries,  and  so  they  or- 
ganized their  settlements  as  pueblos,  or  "  irri- 
gating municipalities,"  by  which  the  lands 
were  held  in  severalty  while  the  tenure  of 
waters  and  works  was  communal  or  munici- 
pal. The  Mormons,  settling  in  Utah,  borrowed 
the  Mexican  system.  The  lands  in  small  tracts 
were  held  in  severalty  by  the  people,  but  the 
waters  were  controlled  by  bishops  of  the 
Church,  who  among  the  "  Latter-Day  Saints  " 
are  priests  of  the  "  Order  of  Aaron  "  and  have 
secular  functions.  In  southern  California,  also, 
many  colonies  were  planted  in  which  the  lands 
were  held  in  severalty  and  in  small  parcels. 
Gradually  in  these  communities  the  waters  are 
passing  from  the  control  of  irrigating  corpora- 
tions into  the  control  of  the  municipalities 
which  the  colonies  have  formed.  Besides  these 
three  great  exceptions  there  are  some  minor 
ones,  which  need  not  here  be  recounted.  In 
general,  farming  by  irrigation  has  been  devel- 
oped as  wholesale  farming  in  large  tracts  or 
as  wholesale  irrigating  by  large  companies. 
Some  of  these  water  companies  are  foreign, 
others  are  capitalists  of  the  Eastern  cities, 
while  a  few  are  composed  of  capitalists  of  the 
West. 

Where  agriculture  is  dependent  upon  an  ar- 
tificial supply  of  water,  and  where  there  is 
more  land  than  can  be  served  by  the  water, 
values  inhere  in  water,  not  in  land ;  the  land 
without  the  water  is  without  value.  A  stream 
may  be  competent  to  irrigate  100,000  acres  of 
land,  and  there  may  be  500,000  acres  of  land  to 


which  it  is  possible  to  carry  the  water.  If  one 
man  holds  that  water  he  practically  owns  that 
land ;  whatever  value  is  given  to  any  portion  of 
it  is  derived  from  the  water  owned  by  the  one 
person.  In  the  far  West  a  man  may  turn  a  spring 
or  a  brook  upon  a  little  valley  stretch  and 
make  him  a  home  with  his  own  resources,  or 
a  few  neighbors  may  unite  to  turn  a  small 
creek  from  its  natural  channel  and  gradually 
make  a  cluster  of  farms.  This  has  been  done, 
and  the  available  springs  and  brooks  are  al- 
most exhausted.  But  the  chief  resource  of  ir- 
rigation is  from  the  use  of  the  rivers  and  from 
the  storage  of  waters  which  run  to  waste  dur- 
ing a  greater  part  of  the  year;  for  the  season 
of  irrigation  is  short,  and  during  most  of  the 
months  the  waters  are  lost  unless  held  in 
reservoirs.  In  the  development  of  these  water 
companies  there  has  been  much  conflict.  In 
the  main  improvident  franchises  have  been 
granted,  and  when  found  onerous  the  people 
have  impaired  or  more  or  less  destroyed  them 
by  unfriendly  legislation  and  administration. 
The  whole  subject,  however,  is  in  its  infancy, 
and  the  laws  of  the  Western  territory  are  in- 
adequate to  give  security  to  capital  invested 
in  irrigating  works  on  the  one  hand  and  pro- 
tection to  the  farmer  from  extortion  on  the 
other.  For  this  reason  the  tendency  is  to  or- 
ganize land  companies.  At  present  there  is  a 
large  class  of  promoters  who  obtain  options 
on  lands  and  make  contracts  to  supply  water, 
and  then  enlist  capital  in  the  East  and  in 
Europe  and  organize  and  control  construction 
companies,  which,  sometimes  at  least,  make 
large  profits.  There  seems  to  be  little  diffi- 
culty in  interesting  capitalists  in  these  enter- 
prises. The  great  increase  in  value  given  to 
land  through  its  redemption  by  irrigation 
makes  such  investments  exceedingly  attrac- 
tive. But  at  present  investors  and  farmers  are 
alike  badly  protected,  and  the  lands  and  waters 
are  falling  into  the  hands  of  "  middlemen."  If 
the  last  few  years'  experience  throws  any  light 
upon  the  future  the  people  of  the  West  are 
entering  upon  an  era  of  unparalleled  specula- 
tion, which  will  result  in  the  aggregation  of 
the  lands  and  waters  in  the  hands  of  a  com- 
paratively few  persons.  Let  us  hope  that  there 
is  wisdom  enough  in  the  statesmen  of  America 
to  avert  the  impending  evil. 

Whence,  then,  shall  the  capital  come  ?  and 
how  shall  the  labor  be  organized  by  which 
these  100,000,000  acres  of  land  are  to  be  re- 
deemed ?  This  is  the  problem  that  to-day 
confronts  our  statesmen  and  financiers.  Capi- 
tal must  come,  for  the  work  is  demanded  and 
will  pay.  Let  us  look  at  the  statistics  of  this 
subject  in  round  numbers,  and  always  quite 
within  probable  limits.  Let  us  speak  of  100,- 
000,000  acres  of  land  to  be  redeemed  by  the 


INSTITUTIONS  FOR    THE  ARID   LANDS. 


JI3 


use  of  rivers  and  reservoirs.  This  will  cost 
about  ten  dollars  per  acre,  or  $1,000,000,000. 
In  the  near  future  a  demand  for  this  amount 
will  be  made,  and  it  will  be  forthcoming  be- 
yond a  peradventure.  The  experience  ob- 
tained by  the  redemption  of  6,000,000  acres 
of  land,  already  under  cultivation,  abundantly 
warrants  the  statement  that  an  average  of  fifty 
dollars  per  acre  is  a  small  estimate  to  be  placed 
upon  the  value  of  the  lands  yet  to  be  redeemed 
as  they  come  to  be  used.  Thus  there  is  a  prize 
to  be  secured  of  $5,000,000,000  by  the  invest- 
ment of  $1,000,000,000.  Such  vast  undertak- 
ings will  not  be  overlooked  by  the  enterprising 
men  of  America. 

In  a  former  article  on  "  The  Irrigable  Lands 
of  the  Arid  Region,"  in  The  Century  Mag- 
azine for  March,  1890,  it  was  explained  that 
the  waters  of  the  arid  lands  flowing  in  the 
great  rivers  must  somehow  be  divided  among 
the  States,  and  that  in  two  cases  important 
international  problems  are  involved.  It  was 
also  shown  that  contests  are  arising  between 
different  districts  of  the  same  State.  But  the 
waters  must  be  still  further  subdivided  in  order 
that  they  may  be  distributed  to  individual 
owners.  How  can  this  be  done  ?  Lands  can 
be  staked  out,  corner-posts  can  be  established, 
dividing  lines  can  be  run,  and  titles  to  tracts 
in  terms  of  metes  and  bounds  can  be  recorded. 
But  who  can  establish  the  corner-posts  of  flow- 
ing waters  ?  When  the  waters  are  gathered 
into  streams  they  rush  on  to  the  desert  sands 
or  to  the  sea ;  and  how  shall  we  describe  the 
metes  and  bounds  of  a  wave  ?  The  farmer  may 
brand  his  horses,  but  who  can  brand  the  clouds 
or  put  a  mark  of  ownership  on  the  current  of 
a  river  ?  The  waters  of  to-day  have  values  and 
must  be  divided;  the  waters  of  the  mor- 
row have  values,  and  the  waters  of  all  coming 
time,  and  these  values  must  be  distributed 
among  the  people.    How  shall  it  be  done  ? 

It  is  proposed  to  present  a  plan  for  the  so- 
lution of  these  problems,  and  others  connected 
therewith,  in  an  outline  of  institutions  neces- 
sary for  the  arid  lands.  Some  of  these  prob- 
lems have  been  discussed  in  former  articles, 
and  it  may  be  well  to  summarize  them  all  once 
more,  as  follows  : 

First.  The  capital  to  redeem  by  irrigation 
100,000,000  acres  of  land  is  to  be  obtained, 
and  $1,000,000,000  is  necessary. 

Second.  The  lands  are  to  be  distributed  to 
the  people,  and  as  yet  we  have  no  proper  sys- 
tem of  land  laws  by  which  it  can  be  done. 

Third.  The  waters  must  be  divided  among 
the  States,  and  as  yet  there  is  no  law  for  it, 
and  the  States  are  now  in  conflict. 

Fourth.  The  waters  are  to  be  divided  among 
the  people,  so  that  each  man  may  have  the 
amount  necessary  to    fertilize  his  farm,  each 


hamlet,  town,  and  city  the  amount  necessary 
for  domestic  purposes,  and  that  every  thirsty 
garden  may  quaff  from  the  crystal  waters  that 
come  from  the  mountains. 

Fifth.  The  great  forests  that  clothe  the 
hills,  plateaus,  and  mountains  with  verdure 
must  be  saved  from  devastation  by  fire  and 
preserved  for  the  use  of  man,  that  the  sources 
of  water  may  be  protected,  that  farms  may  be 
fenced  and  homes  built,  and  that  all  this  wealth 
of  forest  may  be  distributed  among  the  people. 

Sixth.  The  grasses  that  are  to  feed  the 
flocks  and  herds  must  be  protected  and 
utilized. 

Seventh.  The  great  mineral  deposits  —  the 
fuel  of  the  future,  the  iron  for  the  railroads, 
and  the  gold  and  silver  for  our  money  —  must 
be  kept  ready  to  the  hand  of  industry  and  the 
brain  of  enterprise. 

Eighth.  The  powers  of  the  factories  of  that 
great  land  are  to  be  created  and  utilized,  that 
the  hum  of  busy  machinery  may  echo  among  the 
mountains  —  the  symphonic  music  of  industry. 

A  thousand  millions  of  money  must  be  used; 
who  shall  furnish  it  ?  Great  and  many  indus- 
tries are  to  be  established ;  who  shall  control 
them  ?  Millions  of  men  are  to  labor ;  who 
shall  employ  them  ?  This  is  a  great  nation, 
the  Government  is  powerful;  shall  it  engage 
in  this  work  ?  So  dreamers  may  dream,  and  so 
ambition  may  dictate,  but  in  the  name  of  the 
men  who  labor  I  demand  that  the  laborers 
shall  employ  themselves;  that  the  enterprise 
shall  be  controlled  by  the  men  who  have  the 
genius  to  organize,  and  whose  homes  are  in 
the  lands  developed,  and  that  the  money 
shall  be  furnished  by  the  people ;  and  I  say 
to  the  Government:  Hands  oft'!  Furnish  the 
people  with  institutions  of  justice,  and  let  them 
do  the  work  for  themselves.  The  solution  to 
be  propounded,  then,  is  one  of  institutions  to 
be  organized  for  the  establishment  of  justice, 
not  of  appropriations  to  be  made  and  offices 
created  by  the  Government. 

In  a  group  of  mountains  a  small  river  has 
its  source.  A  dozen  or  a  score  of  creeks  unite 
to  form  the  trunk.  The  creeks  higher  up  divide 
into  brooks.  All  these  streams  combined  form 
the  drainage  system  of  a  hydrographic  basin, 
a  unit  of  country  well  defined  in  nature,  for  it  is 
bounded  above  and  on  each  side  by  heights  of 
land  that  rise  as  crests  to  part  the  waters.  Thus 
hydraulic  basin  is  segregated  from  hydraulic 
basin  by  nature  herself,  and  the  landmarks  are 
practically  perpetual.  In  such  a  basin  of  the  arid 
region  the  irrigable  lands  lie  below ;  not  chiefly 
by  the  river's  side,  but  on  the  mesas  and  low 
plains  that  stretch  back  on  each  side.  Above 
these  lands  the  pasturage  hills  and  mountains 
stand,  and  there  the  forests  and  sources  of 
water   supply  are  found.    Such  a  district  of 


ii4 


INSTITUTIONS  FOR    THE  ARID  IANDS. 


country  is  a  commonwealth  by  itself.  The 
people  who  live  therein  are  interdependent  in 
all  their  industries.  Every  man  is  interested  in 
the  conservation  and  management  of  the  water 
supply,  for  all  the  waters  are  needed  within  the 
district.  The  men  who  control  the  farming 
below  must  also  control  the  upper  regions 
where  the  waters  are  gathered  from  the  heavens 
and  stored  in  the  reservoirs.  Every  farm  and 
garden  in  the  valley  below  is  dependent  upon 
each  fountain  above. 

All  of  the  lands  that  lie  within  the  basin 
above  the  farming  districts  are  the  catchment 
areas  for  all  the  waters  poured  upon  the  fields 
below.  The  waters  that  control  these  works 
all  constitute  one  system,  are  dependent  one 
upon  another,  and  are  independent  of  all  other 
systems.  Not  a  spring  or  a  creek  can  be  touched 
without  affecting  the  interests  of  every  man 
who  cultivates  the  soil  in  the  region.  All  the 
waters  are  common  property  until  they  reach 
the  main  canal,  where  they  are  to  be  distrib- 
uted among  the  people.  How  these  waters 
are  to  be  caught  and  the  common  source  of 
wealth  utilized  by  the  individual  settlers  inter- 
ested therein  is  a  problem  for  the  men  of  the 
district  to  solve,  and  for  them  alone. 

But  these  same  people  are  interested  in  the 
forests  that  crown  the  heights  of  the  hydro- 
graphic  basin.  If  they  permit  the  forests  to  be 
destroyed,  the  source  of  their  water  supply  is 
injured  and  the  timber  values  are  wiped  out. 
If  the  forests  are  to  be  guarded,  the  people  di- 
rectly interested  should  perform  the  task.  An 
army  of  aliens  set  to  watch  the  forests  would 
need  another  army  of  aliens  to  watch  them, 
and  a  forestry  organization  under  the  hands  of 
the  General  Government  would  become  a  hot- 
bed of  corruption  ;  for  it  would  be  impossible 
to  fix  responsibility  and  difficult  to  secure  in- 
tegrity of  administration,  because  ill-defined 
values  in  great  quantities  are  involved. 

Then  the  pasturage  is  to  be  protected.  The 
men  who  protect  these  lands  for  the  water 
they  supply  to  agriculture  can  best  protect 
the  grasses  for  the  summer  pasturage  of  the 
cattle  and  horses  and  sheep  that  are  to  be  fed 
on  their  farms  during  the  months  of  winter. 
Again,  the  men  who  create  water  powers  by 
constructing  dams  and  digging  canals  should 
be  permitted  to  utilize  these  powers  for  them- 
selves, or  to  use  the  income  from  these  powers 
which  they  themselves  create,  for  the  purpose 
of  constructing  and  maintaining  the  works  nec- 
essary to  their  agriculture. 

Thus  it  is  that  there  is  a  body  of  interde- 
pendent and  unified  interests  and  values,  all 
collected  in  one  hydrographic  basin,  and  all 
segregated  by  well-defined  boundary  lines 
from  the  rest  of  the  world.  The  people  in 
such  a  district  have  common  interests,  com- 


mon rights,  and  common  duties,  and  must  nec- 
essarily work  together  for  common  purposes. 
Let  such  a  people  organize,  under  national 
and  State  laws,  a  great  irrigation  district,  in- 
cluding an  entire  hydrographic  basin,  and  let 
them  make  their  own  laws  for  the  division  of 
the  waters,  for  the  protection  and  use  of  the 
forests,  for  the  protection  of  the  pasturage  on 
the  hills,  and  for  the  use  of  the  powers.  This, 
then,  is  the  proposition  I  make :  that  the  en- 
tire arid  region  be  organized  into  natural 
hydrographic  districts,  each  one  to  be  a  com- 
monwealth within  itself  for  the  purpose  of  con- 
trolling and  using  the  great  values  which  have 
been  pointed  out.  There  are  some  great 
rivers  where  the  larger  trunks  would  have  to 
be  divided  into  two  or  more  districts,  but  the 
majority  would  be  of  the  character  described. 
Each  such  community  should  possess  its  own 
irrigation  works ;  it  would  have  to  erect  divert- 
ing dams,  dig  canals,  and  construct  reservoirs ; 
and  such  works  would  have  to  be  maintained 
from  year  to  year.  The  plan  is  to  establish 
local  self-government  by  hydrographic  basins. 
Let  us  consider  next  the  part  which  should 
be  taken  by  the  local  governments,  the  State 
governments,  and  the  General  Government  in 
the  establishment  and  maintenance  of  these 
institutions.  Let  there  be  established  in  each 
district  a  court  to  adjudicate  questions  of  water 
rights,  timber  rights,  pasturage  rights,  and 
power  rights,  in  compliance  with  the  special 
laws  of  the  community  and  the  more  general 
laws  of  the  State  and  the  nation.  Let  there  be 
appeal  from  these  lower  courts  to  the  higher 
courts.  Let  the  people  of  the  district  provide 
their  own  officers  for  the  management  and 
control  of  the  waters,  for  the  protection  and 
utilization  of  the  forests,  for  the  protection  and 
management  of  the  pasturage,  and  for  the 
use  of  the  powers ;  and  with  district  courts, 
water  masters,  foresters,  and  herders  they 
would  be  equipped  with  the  local  officers  nec- 
essary for  the  protection  of  their  own  property 
and  the  maintenance  of  individual  rights.  The 
interests  are  theirs,  the  rights  are  theirs,  the 
duties  are  theirs ;  let  them  control  their  own 
actions.  To  some  extent  this  can  be  accom- 
plished by  cooperative  labor;  but  ultimately 
and  gradually  great  capital  must  be  employed 
in  each  district.  Let  them  obtain  this  capital 
by  their  own  enterprise  as  a  community.  Con- 
stituting a  body  corporate,  they  can  tax  them- 
selves and  they  can  borrow  moneys.  They 
have  a  basis  of  land  titles,  water  rights,  pas- 
turage rights,  forest  rights,  and  power  rights ; 
all  of  these  will  furnish  ample  security  for  the 
necessary  investments ;  and  these  district  com- 
munities, having  it  in  their  power  to  obtain  a 
vast  increment  by  the  development  of  the 
lands,  and  to  distribute  it  among  the  people 


INSTITUTIONS  FOR    THE   ARID  IANDS. 


"5 


in  severalty,  will  speedily  understand  how  to 
attract  capital  by  learning  that  honesty  is  the 
best  policy. 

Each  State  should  provide  courts  for  the 
adjudication  of  litigation  between  people  of 
different  districts,  and  courts  of  appeal  from 
the  irrigation  district  courts.  It  should  also 
establish  a  general  inspection  system,  and  pro- 
vide that  the  irrigation  reservoirs  shall  not  be 
constructed  in  such  a  manner  as  to  menace 
the  people  below  and  place  them  in  peril  from 
floods.  And  finally,  it  should  provide  general 
statutes  regulating  water  rights. 

But  the  General  Government  must  bear  its 
part  in  the  establishment  of  the  institutions 
for  the  arid  region.  It  is  now  the  owner  of 
most  of  the  lands,  and  it  must  provide  for  the 
distribution  of  these  lands  to  the  people  in 
part,  and  in  part  it  must  retain  possession  of 
them  and  hold  them  in  trust  for  the  districts. 
It  must  also  divide  the  waters  of  the  great 
rivers  among  the  States.  All  this  can  be  ac- 
complished in  the  following  manner.  Let  the 
General  Government  make  a  survey  of  the 
lands,  segregating  and  designating  the  irriga- 
ble lands,  the  timber  lands,  the  pasturage 
lands,  and  the  mining  lands ;  let  the  General 
Government  retain  possession  of  all  except  the 
irrigable  lands,  but  give  these  to  the  people  in 
severalty  as  homesteads.  Then  let  the  General 
Government  declare  and  provide  by  statute 
that  the  people  of  each  district  may  control 
and  use  the  timber,  the  pasturage,  and  the 
water  powers,  under  specific  laws  enacted  by 
themselves  and  by  the  States  to  which  they  be- 
long. Then  let  the  General  Government  further 
declare  and  establish  by  statute  how  the  waters 
are  to  be  divided  among  the  districts  and  used 
on  the  lands  segregated  as  irrigable  lands,  and 
then  provide  that  the  waters  of  each  district 
may  be  distributed  among  the  people  by  the 
authorities  of  each  district  under  State  and 
national  laws.  By  these  means  the  water  would 
be  relegated  to  the  several  districts  in  proper 
manner,  interstate  problems  would  be  solved, 
and  the  national  courts  could  settle  all  inter- 
state litigation. 

But  the  mining  industries  of  the  country 
must  be  considered.  Undeveloped  mining 
lands  should  remain  in  the  possession  of  the 
General  Government,  and  titles  thereto  should 
pass  to  individuals,  under  provisions  of  stat- 
utes already  existing,  only  where  such  lands 
are  obtained  by  actual  occupation  and  de- 
velopment, and  then  in  quantities  sufficient  for 
mining  purposes  only.  Then  mining  regions 
must  have  mining  towns.  For  these  the  town- 
site  laws  already  enacted  provide  ample  re- 
source. 

It  is  thus  proposed  to  divide  responsibility 
for  these  institutions  between  the  General  Gov- 


ernment, the  State  governments,  and  the  local 
governments.  Having  done  this,  it  is  pro- 
posed to  allow  the  people  to  regulate  their 
own  affairs  in  their  own  way  —  borrow  money, 
levy  taxes,  issue  bonds,  as  they  themselves 
shall  determine ;  construct  reservoirs,  dig  canals, 
when  and  how  they  please ;  make  their  own 
laws  and  choose  their  own  officers ;  protect  their 
own  forests,  utilize  their  own  pasturage,  and  do 
as  they  please  with  their  own  powers ;  and  to 
say  to  them  that  "  with  wisdom  you  may  pros- 
per, but  with  folly  you  must  fail." 

It  should  be  remembered  that  the  far  West 
is  no  longer  an  uninhabited  region.  Towns 
and  cities  are  planted  on  the  mountain  sides, 
and  stupendous  mining  enterprises  are  in  oper- 
ation. On  the  streams  saw-mills  have  been 
erected,  and  the  woodsman's  ax  echoes  through 
every  forest.  In  many  a  valley  and  by  many 
a  stream  may  be  found  a  field,  a  vineyard, 
an  orchard,  and  a  garden;  and  the  hills  are 
covered  with  flocks  and  herds.  In  almost 
every  hydrographic  basin  there  is  already 
found  a  population  sufficient  for  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  necessary  irrigation  districts.  The 
people  are  intelligent,  industrious,  enterprising, 
and  wide  awake  to  their  interests.  Their  hearts 
beat  high  with  hope,  and  their  aspirations  are 
for  industrial  empire.  On  this  round  globe  and 
in  all  the  centuries  of  human  history  there  has 
never  before  been  such  a  people.  Their  love 
of  liberty  is  unbounded,  their  obedience  to  law 
unparalleled,  and  their  reverence  for  justice 
profound ;  every  man  is  a  freeman  king  with 
power  to  rule  himself,  and  they  may  be  trusted 
with  their  own  interests. 

Many  of  the  great  industrial  undertakings 
of  mankind  require  organized  labor,  and  this 
demand  grows  with  the  development  of  in- 
ventions and  the  use  of  machinery.  The  trans- 
fer of  toil  from  the  muscles  of  men  to  the  sinews 
of  nature  has  a  double  result  —  social  solidarity 
is  increased,  and  mind  is  developed.  In  the 
past,  civilization  has  combined  the  labor  of  men 
through  the  agency  of  despotism;  and  this 
was  possible  when  the  chief  powers  were  mus- 
cular. But  when  the  physical  powers  of  nature 
are  employed  and  human  powers  engaged  in 
their  control  men  cannot  be  enslaved ;  they 
assert  their  liberty  and  despotism  falls.  Under 
free  governments  the  tendency  is  to  transfer 
power  from  hereditary  and  chosen  rulers  to 
money  kings,  as  the  integration  of  society  in 
industrial  operations  is  accomplished  through 
the  agency  of  capital.  This  organization  of 
physical  power  with  human  industry  for  great 
ends  by  the  employment  of  capital  is  accom- 
plished by  instituting  corporations.  Corpora- 
tions furnish  money  and  machinery,  and 
employ  men  organized  under  superintendents, 
to  accomplish  the  works  necessary  to  our  mod- 


i6 


INSTITUTIONS  FOR    THE  ARID   IANDS. 


era  civilization.  Gradually  society  is  being 
organized  into  a  congeries  of  such  corpora- 
tions to  control  the  leading  industries  of  the 
land. 

Hitherto  agriculture  in  this  country  has  not 
come  under  the  domination  of  these  modern 
rulers.  Throughout  all  the  humid  regions  the 
farmer  is  an  independent  man,  but  in  the  arid 
regions  corporations  have  sought  to  take  con- 
trol of  agriculture.  This  is  rendered  possible 
by  the  physical  conditions  under  which  the 
industry  is  carried  on.  Sometimes  the  corpora- 
tions have  attempted  to  own  the  lands  and 
the  water,  and  to  construct  the  great  works 
and  operate  them  as  part  and  parcel  of  whole- 
sale farming.  In  other  cases  the  corporations 
have  sought  to  construct  the  works  and  sell 
the  water  to  individual  farmers  with  small 
holdings.  By  neither  of  these  methods  has 
more  than  partial  success  been  achieved.  There 
is  a  sentiment  in  the  land  that  the  farmer  must 
be  free,  that  the  laborer  in  the  field  should  be 
the  owner  of  the  field.  Hence  by  unfriendly 
legislation  and  by  judicial  decision  —  which 
ultimately  reflect  the  sentiment  of  the  people 

—  these  farming  corporations  and  water  cor- 
porations of  the  West  have  often  failed  to 
secure  brilliant  financial  results,  and  many 
have  been  almost  destroyed.  Thus  there  is 
a  war  in  the  West  between  capital  and  labor 

—  a  bitter,  relentless  war,  disastrous  to  both 
parties.  The  effort  has  been  made  to  present 
a  plan  by  which  the  agriculture  of  the  arid 
lands  may  be  held  as  a  vast  field  of  exploita- 
tion for  individual  farmers  who  cultivate  the 
soil  with  their  own  hands ;  and  at  the  same 
time  and  by  the  same  institutions  to  open  to 
capital  a  field  for  safe  investment  and  remu- 
nerative return,  and  yet  to  secure  to  the  toil- 
ing farmers  the  natural  increment  of  profit 
which  comes  from  the  land  with  the  progress 
of  industrial  civilization. 


The  great  enterprises  of  mining,  manufac- 
turing, transporting,  exchanging,  and  financier- 
ing in  which  the  business  kings  of  America 
are  engaged  challenge  admiration,  and  I  re- 
joice at  their  prosperity  and  am  glad  that 
blessings  thus  shower  upon  the  people;  but 
the  brilliancy  of  great  industrial  operations 
does  not  daze  my  vision.  I  love  the  cradle 
more  than  the  bank  counter.  The  cottage 
home  is  more  beautiful  to  me  than  the  palace. 
I  believe  that  the  school-house  is  primal,  the 
university  secondary ;  and  I  believe  that  the 
justice's  court  in  the  hamlet  is  the  only  per- 
manent foundation  for  the  Supreme  Court  at 
the  capital.  Such  are  the  interests  which  I  ad- 
vocate. Without  occult  powers  of  prophecy, 
the  man  of  common  sense  sees  a  wonderful 
future  for  this  land.  Hard  is  the  heart,  dull 
is  the  mind,  and  weak  is  the  will  of  the  man 
who  does  not  strive  to  secure  wise  institutions 
for  the  developing  world  of  America. 

The  lofty  peaks  of  the  arid  land  are  silvered 
with  eternal  rime ;  the  slopes  of  the  mountains 
and  the  great  plateaus  are  covered  with  forest 
groves ;  the  hills  billow  in  beauty,  the  valleys 
are  parks  of  delight,  and  the  deep  canons  thrill 
with  the  music  of  laughing  waters.  Over  them 
all  a  clear  sky  is  spread,  through  which  the 
light  of  heaven  freely  shines.  Clouds  rarely 
mask  the  skies,  but  come  at  times  like  hosts 
of  winged  beauty  floating  past,  as  they  change 
from  gray  to  gold,  to  crimson,  and  to  gorgeous 
purple.  The  soul  must  worship  these  glories, 
yet  with  the  old  Scotch  poet  I  can  exclaim : 

It  's  rare  to  see  the  morning  bleeze, 
Like  a  bonfire  frae  the  sea; 
It  's  fair  to  see  the  burnie  kiss 
The  lip  o'  the  flow'ry  lea; 
An'  fine  it  is  on  green  hillside, 
Where  hums  the  bonnie  bee, 
But  rarer,  fairer,  finer  far 
Is  the  ingleside  for  me. 

J.    IV.  Powell. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  TWO  CAMERAS. 


>T  was  in  the  old  Spanish 
town  of  Toledo  that  Elea- 
nor's matter-of-fact  detec- 
tive camera  first  played 
her  false  and  led  her  into 
the  byways  of  romance. 

All  through  their  tour 
the  camera  had  been  a 
source  of  delight  to  her  and  of  annoyance  to 
her  father.  He  was  proud  of  his  daughter's 
skill,  and  glad  to  have  the  incidents  of  the 
trip  recorded,  but  the  mysterious  little  box 
was  continually  getting  them  into  trouble  with 
the  custom-house  officials  and  with  people 
who  objected  to  being  photographed. 

Eleanor  had  provided  herself  for  the  tour 
with  two  rolls  of  sensitized  paper  instead  of 
the  ordinary  glass  plates.  Each  roll  was  capa- 
ble of  containing  one  hundred  negatives.  The 
makers  boasted  the  advantages  of  light  weight 
and  compactness  for  transportation,  and  Elea- 
nor recognized  the  further  convenience  of  not 
being  obliged  to  develop  her  own  negatives, 
the  contrivance  allowing  her  to  take  view  after 
view,  and  when  the  roll  was  filled  to  lay  it 
aside  for  development  and  printing  at  some 
future  day  by  a  professional  photographer. 

It  was  through  no  fault  of  the  makers,  or 
of  Eleanor's,  that  her  anticipations  of  an 
abundant  harvest  of  photographs  were  not  re- 
alized. A  suspicious  officer  on  the  frontier  had 
insisted  on  examining  the  roll-holders,  assert- 
ing that  he  suspected  that  they  contained  ni- 
tro-glycerine,  and  that  the  camera  was  a  neat 
little  infernal  machine.  As  exposing  the  rolls 
to  the  light  would  have  utterly  ruined  them, 
Mr.  Thurston  labored  long  in  his  daughter's 
behalf  with  the  obstinate  official,  and  finally, 
with  the  assistance  of  a  generous  fee,  suc- 
ceeded in  allaying  his  suspicions. 

Later,  a  Moorish  peddler  of  curiosities  in 
southern  Spain,  on  comprehending  that  he 
had  been  photographed,  insisted  that  the  por- 
trait should  be  destroyed.  He  was  a  most 
picturesque  figure,  in  his  white  turban  and 
flowing  robe,  and  Eleanor  was  loath  to  part 
with  her  trophy.  Her  father  made  use  of  the 
same  arguments  which  had  proved  so  con- 
vincing in  the  case  of  the  guardian  of  cus- 
toms, but  this  time  money  was  powerless.  The 
fanatic  believed  that  the  portrait  might  craftily 
present  itself  before  Allah  and  demand  the  soul 
laid  up  for  him,  and  that  when  he  died  he 
would  find  himself  defrauded  of  his  immor- 


tality. His  trouble  was  genuine,  and  Eleanor 
attempted  to  explain  to  him  that  as  yet  the 
portrait  did  not  exist,  and  that  it  should  never 
be  developed.  But  his  apprehensions  and  sus- 
picions increased  with  every  word,  and  he  an- 
grily snatched  the  plate-holder  from  her  hands 
and  deliberately  unrolled  the  contents,  destroy- 
ing, in  his  search  for  his  portrait,  all  of  the 
photographs  hitherto  taken,  the  treasures  of 
their  experiences  impossible  to  be  replaced. 
Even  then  the  Moor  was  only  half  satisfied ; 
he  seemed  to  think  that  the  portrait,  which 
he  had  not  found,  must  be  concealed  in  the 
camera,  and  Eleanor  trembled  for  the  instru- 
ment as  he  insisted  on  examining  it  thor- 
oughly. She  felt  that  it  had  escaped  a  great 
peril,  and  as  the  second  roll  remained,  having 
been  packed  in  her  trunk,  she  was  inclined  to 
congratulate  herself  on  coming  out  of  the  ad- 
venture so  easily. 

"  I  fear  I  shall  have  to  confine  myself  to 
architecture,"  she  remarked  a  few  days  later 
to  her  father.  They  were  seated  with  their 
courier  Antonio  on  the  balcony  of  the  inn  at 
Toledo,  and  it  happened  by  a  strange  coinci- 
dence that  Thomas  Winter,  a  young  American 
journalist  and  magazinist,  who  was  also  an 
amateur  photographer,  was  stopping  at  the 
same  hotel.  As  he  intended  remaining  some 
time  in  Toledo,  he  had  rented  a  story  in  a 
neighboring  tower  to  serve  as  his  workshop, 
but  as  Eleanor  spoke  he  was  finishing  off 
a  newspaper  letter  in  a  room  whose  blinds 
opened  on  the  balcony  where  the  party  were 
gathered. 

"  Can  you  tell  me,  Antonio,  of  any  pictur- 
esque building  in  Toledo,  or  near  it,  which  I 
could  photograph  ?  " 

The  question  interested  Winter,  and  he 
looked  up  from  his  article.  Antonio  promptly 
recommended  the  old  cloister  of  San  Juan  de 
los  Reyes  as  having  been  photographed  by  a 
Madrid  professional. 

"  Yes,  I  bought  a  photograph  of  it  in  Mad- 
rid," Eleanor  replied.  "  We  will  go  there,  cer- 
tainly ;  but  is  there  not  some  other  less-known 
edifice  which  has  not  been  taken  by  any  one 
else?" 

Antonio  thought  a  moment.  "  Would  the 
Senorita  like  a  view  of  the  Tower  of  the  Ma- 
gians,  a  relic  of  the  School  of  Magic  for  which 
Toledo  was  noted  in  the  tenth  century?  " 

"  Stuff  and  nonsense !  "  said  Mr.  Thurston. 

"  The  Senor  is  incredulous,"  said  the  courier 


Vol.  XL.— 16. 


117 


II. 


THE   ROMANCE    OF  TWO    CAMERAS, 


coolly ;  "nevertheless  it  is  quite  true.  When  the 
Moors  owned  this  part  of  Spain,  long  before 
Queen  Isabella  of  blessed  memory  drove  them 
into  Africa,  there  was  in  this  city  a  university 
for  the  study  of  the  black  art,  and  I  have  no 
doubt  that  Satan  was  one  of  the  doctors.  They 
played  famous  tricks  in  those  days.  Has  the 
Senor  never  heard  of  them  ?  " 

"Young  man,"  replied  Mr.  Thurston  im- 
pressively, "reserve  such  flights  of  your  imagi- 
nation for  English  tourists ;  we  are  Americans." 

"  Antonio  is  right,  Father,"  Eleanor  re- 
marked gently.  "There  was  a  school  of  al- 
chemy here,  though  it  was  probably  only 
chemistry ;  the  prefix  a/,  you  know,  means 
'the.'  I  have  been  struck  with  the  number  of 
terms  we  have  in  chemistry  which  are  derived 
from  the  Arabic.  There  are  alcohol,  alembic, 
aludel,  alkali,  and  others;  and  almanac  came  to 
us,  I  presume,  from  the  astronomer-magicians 
of  the  Giralda.  I  have  a  very  deep  respect 
for  the  learning  of  those  old  Saracens.  I  wish 
I  knew  just  what  experiments  they  tried  in  the 
old  Tower  of  the  Magians." 

"I  '11  warrant  it  was  only  a  good  deal  of 
hocus-pocus  to  mystify  the  unlearned,"  re- 
plied her  father ;  "  Greek  fire  for  the  Saracen 
army,  love  philters,  elixirs  of  life,  and  the  gold- 
transmuting  philosopher's  stone,  and  that  sort 
of  humbug." 

"  It  was  not  all  imposture,"  Eleanor  assert- 
ed confidently.  "  Greek  fire  was  gunpowder, 
and  they  could  dissolve  gold  with  mercury 
and  pierce  red-hot  iron  with  sulphur.  I  do 
not  wonder  that  they  believed  in  their  own 
magical  powers." 

Thomas  Winter,  who  had  involuntarily  over- 
heard the  conversation  thus  far,  began  to 
query  what  the  personal  appearance  of  the 
speaker  might  be.  He  was  certain  that  she 
was  far  too  learned  to  be  young,  and,  as  he 
thought  her  rather  entertaining,  he  argued  that 
Providence  must  have  compensated  for  this 
good  gift  by  denying  her  other  attractions. 
Still,  as  the  voice  was  a  pleasant  one,  he  ad- 
mitted that  she  might  be  amiable.  He  felt 
grateful  to  her  for  having  suggested  to  him 
a  subject  which  he  felt  sure  he  could  turn  to 
account  in  a  magazine  article,  "  A  University 
for  the  study  of  Magic;  or,  the  Alchemists  of 
Toledo."  What  a  taking  title  that  would  be  ! 
He  would  study  up  the  records,  and  his  im- 
agination could  supply  the  rest. 

Her  next  remark  interested  him  still  more, 
for  she  touched  upon  his  own  hobby  with  an 
enthusiasm  which  he  shared,  but  could  not  so 
well  have  expressed. 

"  What  could  the  old  magians  have  thought 
of  photographic  chemistry  ?  "  she  asked,  evi- 
dently talking  half  to  herself.  "  There  is  some- 
thing positively  uncanny  and  suggestive  of  the 


black  art  in  the  way  that  the  image  comes 
out  upon  a  negative  in  the  developing  tray. 
Nothing  which  the  alchemists  did  could  have 
been  more  like  the  work  of  genii.  By  the  way, 
what  an  excellent  '  dark  room '  the  tower  we 
passed  to-day  would  make.  There  is  not  a 
single  window  in  its  massive  walls. 

"  Do  you  know  I  believe  it  was  a  developing 
room  !  The  enchanter  Geber  may  have  worked 
there.  We  get  our  word  algebra  from  a  trea- 
tise on  mathematics  which  he  translated  from 
the  Greek,  but  he  was  more  noted  as  a  chem- 
ist, and  wrote  the  oldest  existing  work  on 
chemistry,  entitled,  '  The  Summit  of  Perfec- 
tion.' " 

"  Was  there  anything  in  it  on  photogra- 
phy ?  "  asked  Mr.  Thurston. 

"I  am  not  sure,"  Eleanor  replied;  "but 
even  if  it  has  not  come  down  to  us,  there  is 
no  proof  that  such  a  chapter  did  not  exist.  It 
may  have  been  destroyed  by  the  Inquisition." 

"  Thank  you,"  thought  Winter,  as  he  made 
several  rapid  notes  in  his  memorandum  book. 
"  There  are  some  Arabian  books  of  that  pe- 
riod in  the  library  of  the  Escurial  which 
escaped  the  fires  of  the  Inquisition  on  account 
of  the  beauty  of  their  illumination.  I  '11  look 
up  '  The  Summit  of  Perfection.'  " 

"  Perhaps  they  called  Geber's  science  the 
'  black  art'  from  this  very  dark  room,"  Eleanor 
suggested,  unconscious  of  her  auditor.  "  I  can 
fancy  it  hung  with  black  velvet,  a  faint  spark 
glimmering  in  a  ruby  glass  suspended  in  one 
of  those  beautiful  Oriental  lamps." 

Thomas  Winter  choked  a  laugh.  "  If  she 
could  see  the  interior  of  that  tower  now,"  he 
thought,  "the  velvet  hangings  replaced  by 
dirt  and  grime,  and  the  red  lantern  I  rigged 
from  a  penny  candle  and  a  broken  Bohemian 
glass  cologne-bottle." 

Eleanor,  ignorant  of  the  mirth  which  she 
was  exciting,  continued,  "Then,  of  course, 
there  must  have  been  apparatus  of  strange 
shape,  and  phials  filled  with  potent  elixirs, 
graduating- glasses  of  purest  crystal,  a  trick- 
ling fountain,  and  tanks  filled  with  the  won- 
der-working fluids." 

"  The  Senorita  has  then  visited  the  Tower 
of  the  Magians  ?  "  It  was  the  courier  An- 
tonio who  asked  the  question. 

"  No,  Antonio.   Why  do  you  ask  ?  " 

"  Because  the  Senorita  has  described  so 
precisely  the  interior.  A  stranger  lives  there 
now  who  holds  no  intercourse  with  the  people 
of  Toledo.  No,  I  have  not  seen  the  room; 
but  the  little  Candida,  daughter  of  the  mule- 
teer who  keeps  his  beasts  below,  climbed  into 
the  tower  one  day  when  the  stranger  was  ab- 
sent, and  tells  me  it  is  fitted  up  as  the  Senorita 
has  said,  even  to  the  ruby  lamp  and  the  strange 
bottles,  which  were  not  of  the  apothecary.   If 


THE  ROMANCE    OF  TWO    CAMERAS. 


119 


the  Sefiorita  would  like  to  see  the  room,  Can- 
dida will  show  it  to  her  some  time  when  the 
stranger  is  absent." 

"  The  little  Candida  is  very  obliging,"  thought 
Winter.  "  I  wonder  whether  the  Sefiorita  will 
accept  the  offer." 

Eleanor,  however,  disclaimed  all  curiosity. 
"  The  man  is  very  probably  an  innocent  pho- 
tographer," she  said;  "and  at  all  events,  I  have 
no  desire  to  pry  into  his  affairs." 

"  Ah,  no  !  "  Antonio  replied  quickly.  "  I 
have  been  in  a  photographer's  shop  in  Mad- 
rid. It  was  a  great,  sunny  room,  with  a  glass 
roof;  not  a  dark  tower  like  this.  A  room 
without  windows !  Surely  those  must  be  evil 
deeds  which  hide  themselves  from  the  light  of 
heaven." 

"  What  is  the  man's  nationality  ?  "  asked 
Mr.  Thurston. 

"  Some  say  that  he  is  a  Moor  from  Africa, 
who  has  come  back  after  hidden  treasures. 
When  they  fled  away  they  took  with  them 
maps  of  their  estates  and  the  keys  to  their 
dwellings,  intending  to  come  again.  So  I  say 
that  this  man  is  a  descendant  of  one  of  the 
old  magicians  who  has  returned  in  search  of 
some  charm  left  walled  up  in  the  tower." 

"  Perhaps,"  suggested  Mr.  Thurston  ironi- 
cally, "  this  is  the  old  magician  Geber  himself, 
who  has  been  walled  up  all  these  years,  and 
has  at  last  hopped  out  as  fresh  as  ever,  like  a 
toad  from  a  block  of  sandstone." 

"  Perhaps,"  Antonio  assented.  "  He  is  dark 
enough  for  a  Moor,  and  the  little  Candida  says 
he  is  no  Christian;  while  he  may  have  the  power 
of  the  evil  eye,  for  his  glance  is  fierce  and 
wicked." 

"  Indeed  it  is  !  "  Winter  almost  uttered  the 
ejaculation  aloud,  and  it  struck  him  that  the 
possible  cause  for  this  adverse  opinion  lay  in 
the  fact  that  he  had  declined  Antonio's  offer 
to  show  him  the  cathedral  for  a  piaster,  and 
had  neglected  to  chuck  the  little  Candida  un- 
der the  chin,  an  omission  which  was  all  the 
more  marked  as  he  was  the  only  traveler  that 
season  who  had  not  bestowed  some  such  token 
of  appreciation  upon  the  little  beauty.  The 
party  on  the  balcony  now  set  out  for  the  clois- 
ter of  San  Juan  de  los  Reyes,  and  Winter  re- 
paired to  his  magian's  tower.  "  I  wish  I  could 
have  had  a  glimpse  at  the  lady,"  he  said  to 
himself.  "  She  is  a  remarkably  suggestive  young 
person.  It  was  n't  exactly  that  what  she  said 
was  so  brilliant,  but  she  has  started  me  on 
a  train  of  thought  that  I  am  sure  I  can 
make  something  of.  Now,  if  I  ever  marry,  that 
is  just  what  I  should  like  in  a  wife,  a  woman 
who  would  be  an  inspiration.  I  think  I  can 
make  something,  too,  of  that  idea  of  an  ex- 
humed Geber  come  to  life  again  in  his  labora- 
tory and  finding  all  his  enchantments  surpassed 


by  modern  science.  I  wonder  what  the  girl 
looks  like.  I  believe  I  will  take  my  camera  and 
casually  stroll  down  to  the  convent  of  San  Juan. 
Something  may  come  of  it." 

And  something  did,  but  not  what  Winter 
had  expected.  Entering  the  chapel  of  this  lit- 
tle jewel-box,  built  in  the  exuberant  style  of 
the  later  Gothic  by  the  great  Cardinal  Ximenes, 
Winter  heard  voices  in  the  adjoining  cloisters. 
Shielded  by  the  ivy  which  screened  the  win- 
dow, he  could  see  Eleanor  flitting  about  the 
cloister  garden,  absorbed  in  admiration  of  the 
series  of  fine  effects  rendered  by  the  luxuriant 
semi-tropical  foliage  in  its  setting  of  arches 
carven  in  all  the  exquisite  caprice  and  richness 
of  the  Spanish  flamboyant  architecture. 

It  was  a  rare  spot,  and  Eleanor  was  presently 
busy  with  her  camera,  rapt  in  a  fine  ecstasy  of 
enthusiasm,  and  unconscious  of  the  beautiful 
poses  into  which  she  threw  herself  as  she 
moved  from  shady  corridor  to  sunny  garden, 
now  pausing  to  scent  a  rose,  to  catch  a  few 
drops  from  the  fountain,  to  place  a  camellia  on 
the  breast  of  the  image  of  the  Virgin  under 
one  of  the  canopied  niches,  or  to  bestow  a  lit- 
tle caress  on  her  father  as  he  rested  on  one  of 
the  stone  benches  once  used  by  the  Franciscan 
friars.  Winter  thought  that  he  had  never  seen 
so  graceful  or  so  beautiful  a  girl,  and  mentally 
compared  her  rapid  and  agile  movements  with 
those  of  a  humming-bird. 

The  photographer's  instinct  was  too  strong 
for  him  to  resist,  and  instead  of  presenting 
himself  openly  in  the  cloister,  he  had  his  camera 
in  order  in  a  moment,  and  from  his  point  of 
vantage  behind  the  ivy  had  soon  filled  all  his 
plate-holders  with  different  views  of  the  same 
lovely  subject. 

With  all  his  triumph  he  had  an  uneasy  feel- 
ing that  the  proceeding  was  not  quite  an 
honorable  one ;  but  he  quieted  his  conscience 
with  the  mental  vow  that  he  would  lock  these 
plates  from  mortal  eye  until  he  could  make 
this  young  lady's  acquaintance,  and  then,  if 
she  objected  to  his  possessing  them,  would 
place  them  at  her  disposal.  Fate  hastened  this 
transfer  in  a  way  which  was  not  at  all  to  his 
liking.  The  fair  enthusiast,  having  taken  as 
many  views  as  she  desired,  gathered  a  few 
flowers  and  strolled  towards  the  chapel  door. 
Though  he  had  determined  that  some  day 
he  would  surely  know  her,  Winter  was  shy 
of  meeting  Eleanor  face  to  face  under  the 
present  circumstances,  and  he  incontinently 
mounted  a  little  flight  of  stairs  leading  to  the 
belfry,  leaving  his  camera,  which  happened  to 
be  at  a  little  distance  from  him. 

Eleanor  glanced  at  the  pictures  with  which 
the  chapel  was  hung,  and,  finding  them  all 
deplorable,  passed  out  of  the  building.  She 
paused  at  the  door,  exclaiming,   "  1  have  left 


120 


THE  ROMANCE    OF  TWO    CAMERAS. 


my  detective !  "  and  Antonio  returned  in  search 
of  it. 

It  chanced  that  Winter's  camera,  so  far  as 
regarded  its  exterior,  greatly  resembled  Elea- 
nor's, and  the  courier,  chancing  upon  it  first, 
bore  it  away  in  triumph.  Winter  finding  Elea- 
nor's, and  in  his  confusion  not  remembering  ex- 
actly where  he  had  left  his  own,  presto !  there 
was  an  unwitting  exchange  of  instruments. 

The  mistake  was  not  discovered  by  Eleanor 
for  several  days.  The  Thurstons  left  Toledo 
for  Seville  that  afternoon  on  their  first  visit 
to  the  alcazar.  Eleanor,  in  preparing  to  photo- 
graph some  of  the  Moorish  arches,  first  discov- 
ered that  the  internal  construction  of  the  cam- 
era in  her  possession  was  quite  different  from 
her  own.  There  was  no  roll  of  sensitized  paper, 
and  instead  the  available  space  was  packed 
with  plate-holders  filled  with  glass  negatives. 
It  was  apparent  that  in  some  mysterious  way 
an  exchange  had  been  effected.  It  seemed 
probable  to  the  Thurstons  that  it  had  occurred 
somewhere  en  route  from  Toledo  to  Seville. 
Antonio  was  certain  that  he  had  carried  Elea- 
nor's camera  directly  from  the  convent  of  San 
Juan  to  the  diligence  which  had  conveyed  them 
to  the  railroad  station,  and  there  had  been  no 
other  travelers  in  the  diligence  and  no  other 
baggage.  The  train,however,  had  been  crowded 
with  tourists  from  Madrid,  among  others  an 
English  party  with  numerous  portmanteaus, 
gun-cases,  hat-boxes,  and  other  baggage.  These 
persons  had  gone  on  to  Granada,  and  Eleanor 
had  hopes  that  the  mystery  would  be  explained 
there. 

Winter  discovered  the  exchange  sooner  than 
Eleanor,  and  was  much  chagrined.  "  She  will 
never  believe,"  he  thought,  "  that  I  intended 
to  submit  them  to  her.  Her  very  reticence  and 
her  delicacy  of  feeling  will  suggest  a  thousand 
unworthy  uses  which  I  might  have  made  of 
them.  It  was  a  piece  of  impertinence  —  what 
mischief-making  demon  tempted  me  to  it  ?  " 

He  presented  himself  at  the  hotel  soon  after 
the  departure  of  the  Thurstons.  The  landlord 
understood  from  his  description  who  was 
meant,  but  it  chanced  that  his  pronunciation 
was  faulty,  and  Mr.  Thurston's  chirography  not 
of  the  plainest,  so  that  Winter  understood  the 
name  to  be  Thompson,  and  as  he  could  gain 
no  information  as  to  their  destination,  the 
comedy  of  errors  seemed  no  nearer  its  end. 

Eleanor  was  deeply  disappointed  at  the  loss 
of  her  second  roll  of  photographs.  She  had 
nothing  to  show  for  all  her  pains  but  a  set  of 
plate-holders  containing  she  knew  not  what. 

Feeling  that  these  negatives  might  afford  a 
clue  to  their  owner,  she  decided  after  her  re- 
turn to  New  York  to  have  them  developed, 
and  ordered  one  photograph  to  be  printed  from 
each.     She  was  transfixed  with  astonishment, 


on  the  return  of  the  set  from  the  photographer's, 
to  recognize  in  every  view  her  own  figure. 

As  a  closer  scrutiny  revealed  the  ornate 
architecture  of  the  cloister  of  San  Juan  in  the 
background,  the  truth  became  evident:  some 
unknown  person,  in  all  probability  the  mys- 
terious occupant  of  the  Magian's  Tower,  must 
have  photographed  her  that  afternoon.  The  dis- 
covery, though  disturbing,  was  not  altogether 
unpleasant.  She  told  herself  that  the  stranger's 
interest  was  only  that  of  an  expert  in  his  pro- 
fession ;  and  yet,  as  she  studied  the  negatives, 
she  could  not  but  recognize  that  the  subject 
was  very  pretty,  and  that  here  was  a  series  of 
bewitching  pictures.  "  They  are  the  best 
photographs  I  ever  had  taken,"  she  said  to 
herself.  "  How  fortunate  that  they  fell  into  my 
hands.  I  wonder  if  he  cared  very  much  " ;  and  a 
momentary  pang  of  pity  touched  her  for  the  un- 
fortunate artist.  "  I  will  keep  the  negatives  for 
him,"  she  decided;  "  but  I  think  that  under  the 
circumstances  I  am  justified  in  reserving  these 
prints  for  myself." 

And  here  the  romance  of  two  cameras 
might  have  ended  but  for  the  intervention  of 
the  hero's  sister,  Miss  Josie  Winter,  who 
chanced  to  have  been  Eleanor's  room-mate  at 
boarding-school,  and  who  had  long  cherished 
the  romantic  project  of  a  match  between  her 
brother  and  her  dearest  friend.  Owing  to  the 
young  man's  frequent  absences  from  home,  on 
long  tours  connected  with  his  profession,  she 
had  not  been  able  to  bring  about  a  meeting. 

"  It  is  really  odd  that  you  did  not  run  across 
Tom  in  Europe,"  Josie  remarked,  after  greeting 
her  friend.  "  He  must  have  been  in  Spain 
while  you  were  there.  Are  you  quite  sure  you 
did  not  meet  him  ?  " 

"  Spain  is  a  large  country,"  Eleanor  replied, 
"  and  we  met  a  great  many  tourists  first  and 
last,  but  no  Mr.  Winter.  I  would  have  remem- 
bered the  name  for  your  sake." 

"  Indeed,  if  you  ever  met  Tom  you  would 
remember  him  for  his  own  sake,"  Josie  replied, 
with  a  little  sisterly  pique.  "  He  's  the  hand- 
somest fellow  you  ever  saw,  and  no  end  clever. 
Have  you  seen  his  last  story,  'The  Magian's 
Tower ;  or,  Geber  the  Enchanter  '  ?  " 

"  No,  dear ;  but  the  title  interests  me.  We  saw 
Geber's  Tower  when  we  were  in  Toledo." 

"I  will  send  you  the  magazine.  It  's  a  de- 
lightful story.  The  critics  all  say  it 's  the  most 
original  thing.  You  '11  be  sure  to  like  it.  How 
did  you  succeed  with  your  photography  ?  I 
want  you  to  show  some  of  your  work  to  Tom. 
I  've  told  him  what  an  artist  you  are." 

"Unfortunately,"  Eleanor  replied,  "I  lost 
all  my  Spanish  photographs.  It  is  no  small  dis- 
appointment, for  I  had  taken  a  great  many." 

"  What  a  shame !  And  I  counted  so  much  on 
those  photographs.    You  see,  Tom  is  raving 


THE   ROMANCE    OF  TWO    CAMERAS. 


121 


about  the  wonderful  work  of  some  lady  amateur 
that  he  met  abroad.  They  must  have  become 
uncommonly  well  acquainted,  for  she  gave  him 
stacks  and  stacks  of  photographs  which  she 
had  made.  Ordinary  things  enough,  too,  but 
he  says  that  they  are  works  of  genius.  I  told 
him  to  wait  till  he  had  seen  yours ;  and  now 
you  have  n't  a  thing  to  show  him.  It  's  just 
too  provoking."  Josie's  glance  roamed  about 
the  room  and  fell  on  the  cloister  photographs. 

"What  lovely  portraits!"  she  exclaimed. 
"Why,  Eleanor,  you  've  been  photographing 
yourself.  I  did  n't  know  you  were  so  vain. 
You  must  let  me  have  one  to  show  to  Tom. 
They  are  too  sweet  for  anything." 

"  They  are  not  mine  ;  that  is,  I  have  no  right 
to  give  them  away,"  Eleanor  replied,  in  some 
confusion.  "Indeed,  I  did  not  take  them. 
How  could  you  think  me  so  foolish  ?  " 

"  Oh  !  I  see,"  Josie  replied  coldly  and  with 
a  slightly  ironical  intonation,  "poor  Tom  has 
n't  the  shadow  of  a  chance.  Well,  you  will 
come  to  us  all  the  same  on  Tuesday  and  see 
the  military  parade  from  our  front  windows ; 
we  have  invited  only  a  few  friends.  Be  sure 
to  bring  your  camera." 

Josie  hurried  home  with  indignation  against 
her  brother's  supposed  rival  raging  in  her  in- 
tense little  heart.  "  She  's  lovelier  than  ever, 
Tom,"  she  said  to  her  brother;  "  lovelier  than 
ever,  but  somebody  else  has  found  it  out.  You 
are  just  too  late.  You  always  were  like  the 
impotent  man  in  the  Scripture ;  while  you  are 
coming,  another  steps  in  before  you.  He  's  a 
photographer,  too,  Tom,  and  Eleanor  has 
posed  for  him  in  the  most  bewitching  attitudes. 
I  never  thought  she  was  self-conscious  enough 
to  do  that  for  any  one.  He  has  presented 
her  with  the  pictures,  and  she  will  not  give 
me  one,  or  even  lend  them  to  me,  and  acted 
so  embarrassed  about  them  that  I  knew  in  a 
moment  that  all  my  planning  for  you  was  in 
vain." 

"Thank  you,  little  sister;  but  I  am  rather 
glad  at  the  turn  affairs  have  taken,"  Thomas 
Winter  replied  seriously.  "  I  don't  know  how 
far  you  may  have  compromised  me  with  your 
friend,  but  you  know  it  's  ten  to  one  that  I 
would  n't  have  liked  her.  I  have  very  high 
ideals  in  reference  to  marriage.  A  man  ought 
to  choose  a  wife  who  will  be  a  helpmate  to 
him;  not  alone  a  woman  of  congenial  tastes, 
but  one  who  appreciates  his  aims  and  is  an 
inspiration  to  him."  With  this  remark  Thomas 
Winter  shut  himself  in  his  own  room  and  for 
the  hundredth  time  turned  over  the  photo- 
graphs which  he  had  printed  from  Eleanor's 
roll. 

"  How  such  a  record  as  this  lets  you  see 
into  the  life  of  the  girl,"  he  said  to  himself. 
"  It  is  not  alone  a  journal  of  her  tour,  telling 


you  what  cities  she  has  visited,  but  her  favor- 
ite haunts  in  each.  I  can  guess  what  her  taste 
is  as  much  by  what  she  did  not  choose  to  take 
as  by  the  scenes  which  she  thought  worthy  of 
reproduction.  Now  there  is  n't  a  single  pho- 
tograph of  a  bull-fight,  whereas  I  have  a  dozen. 
What  opinion  would  any  one  form  of  me,  I 
wonder,  from  the  photographs  which  I  have 
brought  back  ?  First,  that  it  has  been  my  am- 
bition to  secure  feats  in  instantaneous  work. 
There  is  the  winner  of  the  Derby  on  the  home 
stretch,  and  Lord  Strathmore's  pack  of  hounds 
in  full  cry.  I  caught  the  banderilla  in  the  act 
of  fixing  the  barbs  in  the  neck  of  the  infuriated 
bull,  and  I  have  been  duck-shooting  and  hit 
my  bird  on  the  wing  with  my  detective  when 
a  crack  sportsman  at  my  side  failed  with  his 
gun.  I  have  been  rather  proud  of  my  success 
in  getting  a  sharp,  clear  negative  under  diffi- 
culties. The  overcoming  of  difficulties  I  flatter 
myself  has  always  been  a  rather  distinguishing 
trait  of  mine.  But  this  girl  does  more.  In  the 
first  place  she  is  an  artist  by  nature.  She  has 
fine  taste  and  feeling  as  well  as  critical  judg- 
ment. She  has  the  perceptive  faculty  to  choose 
the  auspicious  moment  when  the  shadows  lie 
effectively,  when  the  reflections  in  still  water, 
the  curve  of  surf,  or  the  lines  of  mountain,  road, 
or  roof,  tree  masses  and  cloud  masses,  all  com- 
pose harmoniously.  There  is  not  one  of  these 
views  which  is  not  a  picture.  She  also  knows 
how  best  to  introduce  a  human  interest.  That 
group  of  gipsy  children  has  all  the  charm  of 
a  genre  painting.  Here,  too,  is  a  moonlight 
effect,  and  a  misty  morning  in  the  Pyrenees, 
which  shows  that  she  feels  the  fascination  of 
mystery  and  has  caught  the  poetic  charm 
which  a  photographer  who  works  only  for 
clearly  defined,  positive  black  and  white  re- 
sults never  finds.  It  is  the  witchery  which 
Whistler  describes — "When  the  evening  mist 
clothes  the  river-side  with  poetry  as  with  a 
veil,  and  the  poor  buildings  lose  themselves 
in  the  dim  sky,  and  the  tall  chimneys  become 
campaniles,  and  the  warehouses  are  palaces  in 
the  night,  or  the  whole  city  hangs  in  the  heavens 
and  fairy-land  is  before  us." 

It  will  be  understood  that  Winter's  appreci- 
ation of  the  poetic  in  Eleanor's  nature  argued 
the  same  vein  in  his  own ;  but,  as  often  hap- 
pens, this  self-revelation  had  come  late.  He 
had  fancied  himself  a  materialist,  and  the  know- 
ledge that  he  possessed  the  poetic  instinct  was 
like  a  new  birth.  Nor  did  he  greatly  overes- 
timate Eleanor's  gifts.  She  was  almost  an  ar- 
tist, possessing  in  full  the  artist's  keen  love  for 
nature  but  lacking  in  creative  power,  her  head 
going  far  beyond  her  hand  and  always  dissat- 
isfied with  her  attempts  in  painting.  She  had 
therefore  thrown  away  her  palette  and  had 
seized  the  camera  with  delight,  finding  here 


122 


THE  ROMANCE    OF  TWO    CAMERAS. 


a  magical  artist  who  did  her  bidding  with  per- 
fect skill  and  ease. 

It  will  be  at  once  foreseen  by  the  judicious 
reader  that  fate  intended  these  two  young  per- 
sons, already  united  by  a  common  interest  and 
similar  tastes,  as  lovers.  Opportunity  alone 
was  lacking  for  them  to  become  acquainted 
with  their  own  and  each  other's  hearts,  and 
opportunity  came  during  the  late  centennial 
celebration,  when  New  York  sent  forth  the 
command  to  — 

Let  statue,  picture,  park,  and  hall, 

Ballad,  flag,  and  festival 

The  past  restore,  the  day  adorn. 

Amid  the  splendor  of  bunting  and  the 
pandemonium  of  military  music,  in  the  most 
modern  and  realistic  manner,  all  their  sur- 
roundings a  complete  contrast  to  the  atmos- 
phere of  mystery  and  romance  which  lent 
its  glamour  to  their  first  meeting  in  the  old 
Arab  Spanish  town,  their  paths  in  life  crossed 
again. 

Eleanor  had  received  an  invitation  to  view 
the  naval  display,  on  the  first  of  the  three  gala 
days,  from  the  steamer  Philadelphia,  chartered 
by  the  New  York  Society  of  Amateur  Pho- 
tographers. This  society  had  obtained  permis- 
sion from  the  admiral  to  cruise  at  will  up  and 
down  the  bay,  in  order  to  give  the  fleet  broad- 
sides from  its  two  hundred  cameras  from  all 
possible  points  of  vantage.  Eleanor  had  gladly 
availed  herself  of  this  opportunity  to  pursue 
her  favorite  occupation  in  the  company  of  so 
many  like-minded  spirits,  and  from  her  place  on 
the  after-deck  she  watched  the  embarkation 
with  amused  interest.  Each  enthusiastic  ama- 
teur was  laden  with  his  working  gear  —  great 
cameras  and  small,  cameras  on  tripods  and  dis- 
guised in  traveling  cases,  Kodaks  and  Scovills, 
Lilliputs,  Blairs,  and  Clarks,  cameras  with  re- 
volving backs  and  reversible  backs,  cameras 
that  extended  like  an  accordion  and  that  shut 
up  like  a  gibbous  hat,  vest  cameras  and  pocket 
cameras,  clamped  with  silver  and  inlaid  with 
precious  woods,  hard  hacked  by  hard  expe- 
rience of  roughing  it,  or  crazy  with  long  usage. 

There  was  a  still  greater  variety  to  be  ob- 
served in  the  owners.  Some  were  nervous  lit- 
tle men  who  realized  the  definition  of  the 
word  "  amateur  "  as  given  by  a  bright  child : 
" '  Amateur, '  what  does  that  mean,  I  wonder  ?  " 
and  receiving  no  reply,  "  Well,  I  guess  it  's 
some  one  who  is  n't  very  mature."  These 
worthies  were  perpetually  rushing  about  and 
snapping  their  shutters  before  the  desired  ship 
was  on  the  field,  making  two  exposures  on 
one  plate,  or  fidgeting  or  talking  those  about 
them  into  a  state  of  similar  frenzy.  There 
were  experts  too,  who  manned  their  cameras 
with  the  coolness  of  a  veteran  artilleryman, 


firing  telling  but  harmless  broadsides  at  the 
men-of-war  Chicago,  Brooklyn,  Essex,  Yantie, 
and  others,  and  preserving  their  nonchalance 
even  when  the  Despatch  approached  with  the 
Presidential  party,  and  the  war-ships  and  steam- 
ers filled  the  air  with  the  clamor  of  booming 
guns  and  shrieking  whistles. 

Thomas  Winter  was  one  of  these.  He  was 
just  focusing  his  instrument  on  the  manning 
of  the  yards  as  the  Despatch  approached,  when 
he  noticed  with  some  annoyance  that  a  lady 
had  stepped  between  him  and  his  subject. 
Her  face  was  turned  towards  the  Despatch  and 
he  could  not  see  her  features  ;  but  there  was 
something  strangely  familiar  in  her  alert  poise 
and  the  willowy  grace  of  her  figure  as  she 
bent  to  her  work  or  leaned  eagerly  forward, 
intent  on  catching  the  most  propitious  moment. 
"  Another  humming-bird  girl,"  was  his  first 
thought,  instantly  corrected  by  the  conviction, 
"  No,  it  's  the  same  —  the  little  photographer 
of  the  cloister  in  Toledo." 

As  the  thought  passed  through  his  mind 
Eleanor  turned  and  met  his  stare,  for  it  could 
hardly  be  called  anything  else. 

His  hat  was  off  in  an  instant.  "  I  beg  your 
pardon,"  he  exclaimed  impulsively;  "but  I 
feel  certain  that  you  are  the  young  lady  with 
whom  I  exchanged  cameras  in  Spain.  Is  not 
this  your  instrument  ?  " 

Eleanor  acknowledged  that  it  was.  "  I  have 
used  it  ever  since,"  he  admitted,  "  but  I  don't 
think  I  have  injured  it";  and  he  proceeded  to 
explain  several  little  attachments  and  improve- 
ments which  he  had  added.  "  You  are  quite 
welcome  to  them.  I  never  would  have  taken 
the  liberty  to  tinker  with  your  camera,"  he 
continued  frankly,  "if  I  had  had  the  most 
remote  idea  of  ever  meeting  you  again ;  but  I 
had  n't  the  least  clue,  and  while  I  was  in  Spain 
I  could  not  supply  myself  with  another  camera. 
I  argued,  too,  that  as  you  had  my  detective, 
and  as  my  lens  was  really  a  better  one  than 
yours,  it  did  n't  so  much  matter.  After  I 
reached  home  I  found  that  I  was  much  at- 
tached to  the  little  machine,  and  so  it  happens 
that  I  have  it  with  me  to-day." 

"  If  you  are  so  fond  of  it,  pray  keep  it," 
Eleanor  replied  lightly.  Winter,  however,  in- 
sisted on  restoring  her  property,  and  Eleanor 
accepted  it  gracefully,  asking  him  to  name  an 
address  to  which  his  own  camera  might  be 
sent,  as  she  had  kept  it  boxed  and  ready  for 
expressage  since  the  day  on  which  she  had 
discovered   the  mistake.     , 

"You  see,"  she  said  pleasantly,  "that  I  did 
not  share  your  feeling  that  we  should  never 
meet  again." 

Winter's  heart  bounded.  "Pray,  do  not 
trouble  yourself  to  return  my  detective,  but  al- 
low me  to  call  for  it.    I  have  your  photographs 


THE  ROMANCE    OF  TWO    CAMERAS. 


123 


to  return.  I  must  confess  that  I  could  not  re- 
sist the  temptation  to  print  your  roll.  I  believe 
that  I  have  now  made  a  clean  breast  of  all 
my  transgressions.  The  photographs  came  out 
remarkably  well.    May  I  be  forgiven  ?  " 

"Certainly,"  replied  Eleanor,  with  slight 
embarrassment,  "  since  I  must  cry  peccavi  as 
well,  for  I  had  your  negatives  printed." 

Winter  suddenly  remembered  what  those 
negatives  were.  "Then  you  have  discovered 
another  crime,  and  one,  I  fear,  which  you  will 
not  so  easily  pardon." 

But  Eleanor  did  not  look  in  the  least  of- 
fended, only  quizzical  and  tantalizing,  as  she 
said,  "Really,  there  is  nothing  to  pardon. 
There  is  no  harm  done,  since  I  have  the  pho- 
tographs, and  you  can't  expect  me  to  give 
them  up  under  the  circumstances." 

"Surely,  if  you  knew  how  highly  I  value 
them  you  could  not  refuse  —  "  But  at  that 
instant  Mr.  Thurston  approached,  and  Eleanor 
interrupted  the  plea  with  the  exclamation, 
"Papa,  this  is  the  gentleman  with  whom  I 
exchanged  cameras  in  Toledo.  He  has  just 
given  me  mine  and  kindly  offers  to  call  for  his 
own." 

"  Delighted,  my  dear  sir,"  said  Mr.  Thurston, 
cordially.  "  We  are  at  the  Fifth  Avenue  Hotel, 
and  shall  be  glad  to  see  you  any  evening." 

The  steamer  struck  the  wharf  with  a  gentle 
shock,  and  with  a  smile  and  a  nod  Eleanor 
took  her  father's  arm  and  was  gone.  It  was 
not  until  the  elation  occasioned  by  this  meet- 
ing had  subsided  that  Winter  realized  that 
the  lady,  with  all  her  apparent  cordiality,  had 
not  given  him  her  name.  He  fancied  that  he 
had  discovered  it  in  Toledo  and  that  it  was 
Thompson,  but  the  suspicion  that  her  neglect 
might  be  intentional  threw  a  wet  blanket  on 
his  triumph.  "There  may  be  half  a  dozen 
Thompsons  at  the  Fifth  Avenue,"  he  argued, 
"  and  I  may  not  find  her  again  until  I  am  a 
gray-haired  man." 

Fate  was  better  to  him  than  he  feared. 
When  he  reached  home,  wearied  and  out  of 
sorts,  he  was  met  by  his  sister  Josie,  who  led 
him  gaily  to  his  supper  and  talked  of  her 
plans  for  the  next  day.  "You  surely  have  n't 
forgotten,  Tom,  that  Eleanor  Thurston  is  to 
spend  the  day  with  us.  She  is  going  to  bring 
her  camera ;  for,  though  they  are  at  the  Fifth 
Avenue,  they  have  inside  rooms,  and  their 
windows  give  no  view  of  the  procession." 

Winter  was  about  to  reply  that  if  Miss 
Thurston  was  coming  he  should  make  it  a 
point  to  spend  the  day  at  the  office,  but  the 
mention  of  the  hotel  caused  him  to  alter  his 
intention.  Perhaps  through  his  sister's  friend 
he  might  gain  a  clue  to  her  fellow-lodger,  the 
maiden  he  had  just  found  and  lost. 

Morning  came,  and  crowds  surged  to  Fifth 


Avenue  to  obtain  places  from  which  to  view 
the  military  parade.  Every  doorstep  swarmed 
with  the  lucky  early-comers,  and  the  side- 
walks were  soon  solid  banks  of  human  beings. 
Enterprising  men  and  boys  brought  barrels 
and  boxes,  which  they  stationed  close  to  the 
walls,  renting  them  to  people  in  the  rear  of 
the  crowd  that  they  might  be  able  to  see  over 
the  heads  of  those  in  front.  Others,  intent  on 
making  a  penny,  peddled  cushions  to  those  in 
the  first  rank,  enabling  them  to  sit  upon  the 
curbstones.  As  the  crowd  became  more  and 
more  solid,  and  the  mounted  policemen  found 
it  impossible  to  keep  the  multitude  to  the  side- 
walks even  by  backing  their  horses  against  the 
front  ranks,  Josie  grew  more  and  more  im- 
patient. 

"  Eleanor  will  never  be  able  to  get  across 
the  street,"  she  exclaimed.  "  She  ought  to  have 
started  earlier.  The  side  streets  are  blocked 
with  carts,  and  there  are  fifteen  rows  of  peo- 
ple between  the  procession  and  those  houses 
across  the  way.  See  how  those  behind  push 
forward  and  the  policemen  beat  them  back. 
The  people  in  the  middle  are  simply  wedged 
fast.    Oh,  where  is  Eleanor  ?  " 

"  She  has  probably  discovered  the  impossi- 
bility of  reaching  us,  and  has  returned  to  the 
hotel,"  said  Winter,  as  he  arranged  a  tripod 
camera  in  the  bay-window.  He  missed  the  lit- 
tle detective  which  he  had  carried  so  long,  and 
this  instrument,  an  old  one,  needed  what  he 
denominated  "  considerable  tinkering  to  bring 
it  up  to  the  modern  requirements." 

"  Why  don't  you  use  your  other  camera  ?  " 
Josie  asked;  but  she  did  not  notice  that  her 
brother  failed  to  reply,  for  at  that  instant  a  mar- 
shal galloped  up  the  avenue,  and  the  gallant 
7  th  Regiment  made  way  with  alacrity,  not 
caring  that  its  punctilious  exactitude  of  line 
was  broken  or  that  a  parade  was  thrown  into 
disorder  which  had  hitherto  proceeded  like 
clockwork,  and  whose  marvelous  precision 
was  watched  by  the  admiring  eyes  of  thousands 
of  fair  women  bending  over  the  cornices  and 
crowding  the  windows  and  balconies.  Personal 
vanity  and  esprit  de  co?ps  were  alike  forgotten, 
for  behind  the  marshal,  rushing  like  a  knight 
of  old  to  the  succor  of  the  helpless  and  the 
distressed,  came  the  ambulance  of  one  of  our 
large  hospitals.  There  was  no  one  in  that 
vast  crowd  but  felt  a  thrill  of  sympathy  and 
pressed  a  little  back  to  make  way  as  the  hat- 
less  driver  clanged  his  gong  and  lashed  the 
horse  that  was  already  exerting  his  utmost 
speed.  The  surgeon  on  the  step  was  coolly  ex- 
amining a  little  case  of  instruments  and  bottles, 
and  exactly  opposite  the  Winters'  house  stran- 
gers were  carrying  to  the  front  a  young  girl 
who  had  fainted  in  the  press.  The  scene  was 
an  inspiring  one  as  well  as  characteristic  of  the 


124 


THE   ROMANCE    OF  TWO    CAMERAS, 


day,  and  Thomas  Winter  seized  upon  it  with 
avidity.  He  focused  on  the  ambulance  just 
as  the  litter  was  lifted  to  its  place,  and  the 
white  face  of  the  unconscious  girl  was  clearly 
silhouetted  against  the  black  mass  of  the  crowd. 
He  did  not  recognize  the  face,  however,  until 
the  next  morning  when  developing  his  nega- 
tives. Even  then  it  was  so  tiny  that  he  was  in 
doubt.  To  be  quite  certain,  he  made  a  magic- 
lantern  slide  from  the  negative  and  threw  it,  en- 
larged to  life-size,  upon  the  wall  of  his  room. 
There  was  no  possibility  of  mistaking  the  pro- 
file ;  it  was  that  of  the  lady  of  the  camera. 

All  scruples  as  to  the  propriety  of  inquiring 
for  her  vanished  at  once.  He  hurried  to  the 
Fifth  Avenue  Hotel  and  asked  for  Miss 
Thompson. 

"  Which  one  ?  "  was  the  inevitable  question. 

"  The  one  who  fainted  yesterday  while  wit- 
nessing the  parade." 

"  You  are  a  little  mixed,  I  fear,"  was  the 
icy  reply.  "  However,  I  '11  send  up  your  card." 

Winter's  card  was  returned  by  three  Misses 
Thompson  with  the  reiterated  statement  that 
they  had  not  the  pleasure  of  the  gentleman's 
acquaintance. 

One  clue  remained.  He  knew  the  hospital 
served  by  the  ambulance  which  he  had  photo- 
graphed, and  he  presented  himself  at  its  door 
without  delay.  A  surgeon  here  was  more  com- 
municative. "  Yesterday  was  a  busy  day  for 
us,"  he  replied  to  Winter's  inquiries, "  but  let  me 
see.  A  young  lady  living  at  the  Fifth  Avenue 
Hotel  was  brought  here  by  us  at  about  noon. 
You  have  the  wrong  name.  It  must  have  been 
Miss  Arkwright,  who  died  of  heart  disease. 
You  start  —  yes,  we  could  do  nothing  for  her. 
Life  was  extinct  before  she  reached  the  hos- 
pital." 

This,  then,  was  the  end.  Stunned  and  inex- 
pressibly shocked,  Winter  returned  to  his 
home.  There  were  merry  voices  in  the  parlor, 
but  he  went  directly  to  his  own  room,  and,  sit- 
ting down  with  his  head  between  his  hands, 
tried  to  think.  It  was  absurd  to  suppose  that 
he  loved  this  girl,  whom  he  had  seen  but  three 
times,  and  had  spoken  to  but  once.  And  yet 
he  knew  that  here  was  a  woman  who  had  in- 
fluenced him  more  strongly  than  any  he  had 
ever  known;  one  whom,  under  other  circum- 


stances, he  might  have  loved.  As  he  thought 
gravely  and  sadly  of  the  irony  of  fate  which 
had  suffered  him  to  know  her  so  well  in  so 
short  a  time  and  then  to  lose  her,  Josie  flut- 
tered into  the  room. 

"  Why  are  you  moping  here  all  the  morn- 
ing, Tom  ?  "  she  exclaimed.  "  The  civic  parade 
is  nearly  over.  The  last  floats  are  tottering 
past.  Do  come  and  photograph  them.  Eleanor 
is  here.  She  had  the  greatest  adventure  yes- 
terday. Started  too  late,  and  could  n't  get  to 
us  on  account  of  the  crowd.  Could  n't  get 
home  either,  and  fainted  from  exhaustion,  the 
poor  dear.  She  has  read  your  story  about  the 
Magian's  Tower  and  is  dying  to  see  you.  Says 
that  by  the  most  mysterious  coincidence 
you  have  had  the  same  ideas  on  the  subject 
that  occurred  to  her  when  she  was  in  Spain. 
But  you  don't  seem  to  hear  a  word  I  say.  You 
act  as  if  you  had  lost  your  last  friend." 

"  I  have,  Josie,"  Winter  replied  impressively. 
"  Darken  the  room,  and  I  will  show  you  a  lan- 
tern slide  that  I  have  made.  You  will  under- 
stand then  why  it  is  that  I  cannot  go  down 
to  meet  Miss  Thurston  to-day.  That  is  the  face 
of  the  only  woman  that  I  could  have  loved, 
and  I  have  just  received  the  news  that  she  is 
dead,  Josie.  She  died  yesterday  in  front  of 
this  house  before  my  very  eyes  and  I  did  not 
know  it." 

Josie,  awed  and  sympathetic,  threw  her 
arm  around  her  brother  and  watched  the  im- 
age come  out  upon  the  screen.  Suddenly  she 
gave  a  little  cry.  "Why,  Tom  dear,  that  is 
Eleanor,  and  she  is  n't  the  least  bit  dead.  She 
only  fainted,  and  recovered  as  soon  as  she  felt 
the  motion  of  the  ambulance.  They  did  not 
even  take  her  to  the  hospital." 

"Are  you  certain  of  this  ?  "  Winter  asked, 
a  great  light  shining  in  his  face. 

"Certain.  Of  course  I  am.  There  is  no 
possibility  of  mistake.  Come  down-stairs  and 
judge  for  yourself.  But,  Tom,  dear,"  she  cried, 
checking  his  impetuous  start,  "  don't  be  too 
hopeful.  I  'm  afraid  you  have  n't  the  ghost 
of  a  chance.  I  taxed  her  with  it,  and  I  'm 
just  about  certain  that  she  loves  that  other 
fellow  —  the  one  who  photographed  her  in 
Toledo." 

Elizabeth  W.  Champney. 


i 


TRAVIS    AND    MAJOR    JONATHAN    WILBY. 

.    .   .   Manhood  is  called  foolery,  when  it  stands 
Against  a  falling  fabric. —  Coriolanus. 

i.  hands  of  Travis,  under  the  direction  of  one  of 

his  neighbors,   he  went  forward,  if  not  very 

EFORE  the  war  between  cheerfully,  at  least  with  a  genuine  purpose  to 

the  States,  although  I  was  perform  the  duties  which  were  to  come  in  his 

not  personally  acquainted  career.    Only  once  he  came  home  on  furlough, 

with  Mr.  Jonathan  Wilby,  and  returned  to  his  command  before  the  time 

I     had     heard    of    him  of  his  leave  expired.    Before  the  end  of  the 

through  our  common  acquaint-  war  he  had  risen  to  the  rank  of  major, 
ances.    A  bachelor,  educated  at  the        This  is  about  all  that  I  had  known  of  him 

State  (Georgia)   University,  owning  previously  to  a  meeting  which,  by  accident, 

a  good  plantation  and  several  slaves  I   had  with  him  at  his  own  residence  some 

■^     on  the  farther  side  of  the  Oconee,  years  ago.  I  knew  well  enough  that  the  people 

hospitable,  a  free  liver,  he  had  con-  in  his  county,  like  those  in  mine,  had  been 

tracted  debts  that  amounted  to  two  or  making  hard  struggles  to  repair  some  of  the 

three  thousand  dollars.    Taking  into  account  losses  incurred  by  four  years'  resistance  to  the 

the  natural  increase  in  the  value  of  his  property,  Government   of  the    United   States,    during 

there  was  no  cause  for  much  anxiety ;  and  so  he  which  many  had  failed,  some  had  become 

persisted  in  keeping  his  hounds  and  his  pointer,  desperate,  and  not  a  few  had  died  poor  and 

in  entertaining  his  friends,  and  in  traveling  broken-hearted. 

about,  not  unfrequently  out  of  his  county,  in  I  once  had  occasion  to  visit  a  gentleman 
visits  to  Macon,  Augusta,  sometimes  as  far  as  named  Bass  who  dwelt  in  that  county.  His 
Savannah  or  Atlanta,  the  while  leaving,  with  residence  was  situate  five  or  six  miles  from  the 
general  directions,  his  plantation  affairs  to  public  road  leading  from  our  county-seat  to 
Travis,  his  foreman.  Travis,  some  ten  years  his.  I  had  crossed  the  ferry  and  gone  some  dis- 
older  than  he,  had  been  his  nurse  for  two  or  tance  on  the  byway  that  I  had  been  directed  to 
three  years  after  he  had  become  old  enough  take,  hoping  to  get  to  my  destination  by  night- 
to  be  not  in  need  of  constant  female  care,  and  fall.  But  the  road,  long  unworked,  was  _  so 
ever  since  then  a  strong  affection  had  subsisted  rough  beneath  the  buggy  wheels,  that,  finding 
between  them.  But  for  Travis,  his  master's  I  must  be  disappointed  in  this  hope,  I  deter- 
debts  would  have  been  larger  than  they  were,  mined  at  near  sunset  to  seek  shelter  for  the 
His  expensive  habits  would  have  been  much  night  at  the  first  house  to  which  I  should  come, 
more  injurious  but  for  the  industry,  economy,  The  dusk  had  begun  to  set  in,  when,  after  as- 
and  constant  watchfulness  of  Travis.  Planters  cending  a  steep,  rocky  hill,  I  came  within  view 
in  that  part  of  middle  Georgia,  besides  gar-  of  a  nice,  white,  square,  two-story  mansion  in 
dens,  usually  allowed  to  their  slaves  small  the  midst  of  a  grove  of  red  oaks.  A  gentleman 
patches  for  cultivation  at  odd  times  for  their  was  sitting  on  the  piazza  with  a  book  in  his 
own  use.  Availing  himself  of  this  privilege,  lap.  Over  his  other  garments  he  wore  a  short 
Travis  by  the  beginning  of  the  war  had  saved  as  summer  coat  of  light  material,  and  he  seemed  to 
much  as  four  hundred  dollars.  Dressing  him-  be  reflecting,  as,  with  the  forefinger  of  his  right 
self  and  his  family  plainly,  like  the  rest  of  hand  in  the  volume  he  had  been  reading,  his 
the  servants  on  the  place,  yet  his  cabin  had  a  left  lay  upon  it.  At  my  call  he  looked  up,  rose 
good  supply  in  nice  appointments,  which,  al-  immediately,  went  into  the  house,  from  which 
though  cheap,  were  not  very  common  in  their  he  almost  momentarily  emerged,  having  ex- 
class,  changed  the  coat  he  had  worn  for  a  black 
Mr.  Wilby  had  voted  against  secession,  yet  broadcloth,  and,  readjusting  his  cravat,  came 
when  his  State  had  solemnly  declared  itself  out  to  the  gate.  When  I  told  him  the  object 
out  of  the  Union,  and  the  war  came  on,  he  of  my  call,  he  answered  politely : 
became  a  stanch  Confederate,  and,  being  only  "  Certainly,  sir.  Alight,  if  you  please." 
thirty  years  old,  felt  himself  bound  to  take  his  Calling  to  a  negro  boy,  who  just  then  was 
part  in  all  the  dangers  which  were  to  ensue,  coming  from  the  horse-lot  across  the  road,  he 
Joining    one    of  the  first  military  companies  said : 

raised  in  his  county,  he  was  made  one  of  its        "  Here,  William,  take  this  gentleman's  horse, 

lieutenants,  and  leaving  his  business  in  the  and,  after  putting  the  buggy  under  the  shelter, 
Vol.  XL. — 17.                                                       125 


"'YOU    THINK    TRAVIS    DID    N*T    CRY    WHEN     I     TOLD     HIM     GOOD-BY  ?  '  " 


TRAVIS  AND  MAJOR  JONATHAN   WILBY. 


127 


water  him,  and  tell  your  daddy  to  see  that 
he  's  well  taken  care  of  Then  you  run  to  the 
kitchen  and  tell  your  mammy  that  I  want  to 
see  her  in  the  dining-room,  right  away.  Hear, 
William  ?  " 

"  Yes,  sir,  Marse  Jon'th'n,"  answered  the 
boy,  and  went  briskly  to  the  execution  of  his 
orders. 

Having  escorted  me  in,  and  disposed  of  my 
hat,  umbrella,  and  satchel,  he  said  : 

"  Perhaps  it  may  not  suit  your  habit  to  sit 
on  the  piazza  after  sunset.  If  not,  we  will  go 
inside  the  house." 

I  answered  that  usually  I  sat  all  evenings 
outside  unless  driven  in  by  stress  of  cold  or 
other  inclement  weather.  When  we  were  seated, 
he  said : 

"  My  name  is  Jonathan  Wilby." 

I  gave  my  own  name,  and  added  that  I  had 
long  known  of  Major  Wilby,  although  I  had 
not  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  him  before. 

"  Oh,  yes,  yes,"  he  replied  cordially ;  "  we 
have  many  common  acquaintances.  I  am 
really  very  glad  to  know  you  personally,  and 
that  right  here,  in  this  house." 

Just  then  a  portly,  neat-looking  black  woman 
appeared  in  the  doorway  of  the  hall,  and,  courte- 
sying,  said : 

"  Marse  Jonathan,  William  told  me  you 
wanted  to  see  me." 

"  Yes,  that  's  right,  Ritter.  I  '11  see  you." 
Saying  to  me,  "  Please  excuse  me  for  a  mo- 
ment," he  went  in.  After  a  few  minutes  he  re- 
turned, resumed  his  seat,  and,  smiling,  said : 

"  Being  nothing  but  an  old  bachelor,  my 
table,  especially  at  supper,  is  lightly  loaded 
usually,  and  I  sent  for  my  cook  to  let  her  know 
that  I  expected  two  plates  on  it  to-night,  and 
enough  to  fill  both." 

Bachelor  or  not,  it  was  an  excellent  supper, 
and  well  served  by  the  same  woman  and  her 
daughter,  a  girl  some  thirteen  years  old.  The 
table  furniture  was  finer  than  one  often  sees  in 
country  houses,  except  those  belonging  to  the 
richest.  My  host  was  pleased  to  see  me  eat 
with  a  good  appetite.  After  supper  we  re- 
paired to  the  parlor,  as  the  air  had  grown  cool 
since  the  coming  on  of  night.  A  walnut  round 
table,  several  old-fashioned  mahogany  chairs 
which  had  been  repaired  lately,  a  sofa,  and 
a  very  high  family  clock  were  what  the  room 
contained. 

"You  smoke  ?  " 

"Yes." 

"  I  'm  sorry  I  've  nothing  but  a  pipe  to  offer 
you.  We  planters  since  the  war  find  it  neces- 
sary to  be  economical  in  our  luxuries ;  but  this 
pipe  is  a  clean  one  and  the  tobacco  is  good. 
I  wish  I  did  have  a  cigar  for  you." 

I  assured  him  that  I  was  more  than  content 
with  the  pipe. 


When  we  had  fired  up,  he  grew  more  and 
more  in  cordial  mood. 

"  I  declare  I  am  as  glad  as  I  can  be  that 
you  were  benighted  and  had  to  stop  over  with 
me  —  of  course,  I  should  add,  unless  your 
business  is  to  be  hurt  by  the  delay.  I  do  not 
often  see  anybody  outside  of  my  servants,  be- 
ing not  at  all  given  to  visiting  and  not  much 
to  being  visited.  I  walk  about  the  plantation, 
and  I  sit  and  read  much  of  my  time,  mainly 
about  the  war,  which  is  far  more  interesting  to 
me  to  look  back  to  than  during  its  continu- 
ance I  thought  it  ever  would  be.  I  used  to 
hunt  a  good  deal,  and  to  travel  about  the  coun- 
try, and  was  fond  of  being  in  society.  But 
everything  is  so  changed  and  people  have  got- 
ten to  be  so  poor  that  I  stay  here,  trying  to 
economize  as  well  as  I  can,  so  as  to  help  a  little 
the  poorest  about  me,  including  a  few  of  my 
old  negroes  who  can't  get  along  without  work- 
ing harder  than  I  think  they  ought." 

"  You  don't  get  lonesome  sometimes,  living 
in  this  big  house  by  yourself?" 

"  Not  much,"  he  answered,  indifferently.  "  I 
have  first-rate  health,  sleep  well,  and  generally 
I  can  get  out  of  books  as  much  entertainment 
as  I  need.  I  am  fortunate  in  having  about  me 
the  same  servants  I  had  before  the  war,  who 
are  entirely  reliable.  My  main  man-servant, 
especially,  is  one  of  unusually  good  judgment, 
and,  under  my  directions,  makes  a  living  for  us 
all,  and  a  little  over.  They  were  his  wife  and 
his  daughter  whom  you  saw  waiting  upon  the 
supper-table.  The  field-hands  also  were  all 
raised  on  the  place,  some  before  my  time, 
the  most  after.  So  you  see  that  I  have  a  fam- 
ily, such  as  it  is,  and  there  is  much  the  same 
feeling  between  us  as  always  heretofore.  I  have 
to  be  careful  about  their  disposition  to  make 
me  spend  on  myself  more  money  than  I  should; 
especially  Travis  and  his  wife.  They,  like  most 
old  negroes,  have  a  good  deal  of  family  pride. 
Travis  thinks  I  might  keep  hounds,  as  I  once 
did,  and  have  a  finer  buggy ;  and  Ritter,  his 
wife,  almost  scolds  sometimes  at  my  persistence 
in  wearing  old  clothes  longer  than  she  thinks 
becoming.  Indeed,  from  what  I  hear, —  I  don't 
go  about  myself,  as  I  said, —  negroes  generally 
do  not  seem  to  realize  all  the  seriousness  of 
changed  conditions.  However,  however,"  he 
added,  moving  his  hand,  as  if  in  rather  hu- 
morous admission  of  the  fact,  "perhaps  the 
same  can  be  said,  and  with  justice,  of  us  white 
people." 

"  I  think,  Major  Wilby,"  I  said,  "  that  I  re- 
member to  have  heard  that  in  one  of  the  bat- 
tles around  Richmond  you  were  seriously 
wounded." 

"  Yes,  my  head  was  scraped  by  a  minie- 
ball  one  day,  rather  too  deep  to  make  a  joke 
of.    They  thought  for  a  while  that  I  was  go- 


128 


TRAVIS  AND   MAJOR  JONATHAN   WILBY. 


WHOM    DO     YOU     SUPPOSE     I     SAW?      TRAVIS. 


ing  to  make  a  die  of  it,  or  lose  my  reason. 
That  would  have  been  hard,  considering  every- 
thing. I  often  think  what  a  mercy  it  was  to 
my  old  negroes  that  I  did  n't  do  either." 

Stooping  to  relight  his  pipe  from  the  embers 
on  the  hearth,  he  said : 

"  Oh,  no ;  I  'm  seldom  lonesome.  Still,  I 
am  always  glad  when  any  one  falls  in  on  me 
like  you  have  to-night.    Have  you  any  news  ?  " 

"  None  except  such  as  you  have  seen  in  the 
newspapers." 

"  I  take  only  the  Milledgeville  '  Recorder ' ; 
sometimes,"  he  added  smiling,  "  getting  two 
at  once,  when  we  happen  not  to  send  into 
town  but  once  in  a  fortnight.  Travis  says  I 
ought  to  take  a  daily  paper,  so  that,  even  if 
I  can't  get  it  every  day,  I  can  keep  up  more 


with  current  news.  But  I  tell  him  no ;  I  don't 
take  interest  in  politics  now,  and  not  much  in 
news,  beyond  what  happens  in  the  neighbor- 
hood and  among  people  I  know.  But  I  delight 
in  reading  about  the  war,  especially  General 
Lee.  Was  n't  he  a  splendid  fellow !  Good 
man,  too.  When  I  saw  him  after  the  surren- 
der looking  so  calm,  when  I  knew  his  heart 
was  broken,  I  could  have  cried.  I  have  read 
everything  I  could  pick  up  on  both  sides. 
Big  thing,  was  n't  it  ?  I  did  n't  feel  like  going 
into  it;  but  I  thought  if  anybody  ought,  it 
was  just  such  as  myself.  We  gave  them  a 
good  tussle,  but  they  were  too  many  for  us. 
I  've  come  to  believe  that  it  was  all  God's 
will ;  and,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  I  'm  not  sure 
but  that  everything  about  it  will  turn  out  for 


TRAVIS  AND  MAJOR   JONATHAN   WILBY. 


129 


the  best,  in  time.  Yet,  my !  have  n't  we  had 
a  time  of  it !  " 

"  Most  of  us  have  had  it,  indeed,"  I  said ; 
"  but  you  seem  to  be  in  about  as  comfortable 
conditions  as  any  planter  I  know,  in  your  na- 
tive home,  and  surrounded  by  your  old  family 
servants,  who  are  faithful,  and,  from  what  you 
say  of  them,  still  affectionate. " 

"  Yes,  indeed.  Now,  thank  God,  I  am  com- 
fortably situated;  but  I  went  through  a  siege 
like  the  rest,  and  worse  than  most  of  the  rest, 
for  a  year  or  two  after  I  got  back." 

He  looked  at  me  as  if  interrogating  if  I 
cared  to  hear  of  his  experience.  After  brief 
mention  of  a  few  of  my  own  trials,  I  intimated 
that  I  would  be  entertained  by  a  recital  of  some 
of  his. 

"  Well,  sir,"  he  answered,  "  when  I  got  back 
the  question  was,  what  to  do  next.  Negroes 
free,  a  man  owing  more  money  than  his  plan- 
tation and  stock  would  pay  for  if  put  upon  the 
market,  I  just  told  people  I  owed  to  take  what 
I  had  and  I  'd  go  off  to  some  town  or  other 
and  clerk  or  get  some  sort  of  work,  and  send 
back  what  I  could  make  over  a  decent  sup- 
port. Travis  was  against  such  a  movement,  for 
freedom  did  n't  seem  to  make  any  difference  in 
the  feeling  he  had  for  me.  Travis  argued :  stay 
right  here  and  we  'd  work  out ;  that  nearly  all 
of  my  negroes  would  remain  with  me  on  mod- 
erate wages;  and  that,  by  close  economy,  with 
the  price  of  cotton  keeping  up  or  near  to  what 
it  was  then,  I  could  get  through  the  difficulties 
in  two  or  three  years.  Mr.  Bass  (the  gentle- 
man you  are  on  your  way  to  see)  rather  thought 
with  Travis ;  but  feeling  confident  that  cotton 
would  fall  as  soon  as  one  good  crop  would  be 
made,  I  persisted.  I  gave  Mr.  Bass  a  power  of 
attorney  to  sell,  or  to  do  whatever  might  seem 
best  with  the  whole  property,  and  then  I  cut 
out  afoot.  You  think  Travis  did  n't  cry  when 
I  told  him  good-by  ?  Bitter,  too.  But  there  's 
much  more  afTectionateness  among  negroes 
than  some  persons  suspect.  However,  that's 
parenthetical.  I  left  with  a  few  dollars  in  my 
pocket,  and  walked  to  Augusta,  where  I  got 
a  place  in  a  hardware  store,  and  I  never  wrote 
to  a  soul  to  tell  them  where  I  was.  Meanwhile, 
Mr.  Bass  (I  can  never  be  thankful  enough  to 
him,  and,  as  to  that,  to  Travis  also)  let  the  plan- 
tation to  Travis,  hoping  cotton  would  not  fall. 
Travis  hired  hands  and  made  what  he  called 
a  'bully  crop,'  and  Mr.  Bass  paid  off  a  consid- 
erable portion  of  my  debts.  If  he  had  known 
where  I  was,  he  would  have  written  urging  me 
to  come  back,  believing  then  that  I  might  feel 
secure  in  keeping  possession  of  the  property. 
But  he  did  n't  know,  and  so  he  and  Travis  set 
in  for  another  crop.  That  was  a  first-rate  one, 
and  he  squared  me  off  except  a  few  hundred 
dollars.  As  for  my  experience  as  a  merchant's 
Vol.  XL.— 18. 


clerk,  that  was  without  results  of  consequence 
from  beginning  to  end.  At  the  hardware  store 
they  soon  found  out  that  I  knew  too  little  of 
trade  to  be  of  service  to  them,  and  after  a  lit- 
tle while  they  got  rid  of  me;  very  politely, 
however.  I  tried  several  other  places,  where  I 
was  taken  in  on  my  agreeing  to  work  for  noth- 
ing except  board  until  I  had  learned  the  busi- 
ness well  enough  to  warrant  a  salary.  In  this 
way  I  lived  first  at  one  and  then  at  another  place 
in  Augusta,  until  at  last  I  became  rather  dis- 
gusted with  myself,  making  nothing  above  ex- 
penses, and  feeling  that  my  services  were  hardly 
worth  even  them.  I  got  rather  homesick,  too  ; 
but  the  thought  of  coming  back  into  this  neigh- 
borhood, seeing  another  man  in  possession  of 
my  native  homestead,  and  being  a  pauper, 
and  perhaps  a  sponge  upon  Travis  and  my 
other  old  negroes,  I  said  to  myself,  '  I  '11  die 
first.'  And,  indeed,  I  came  near  doing  that 
very  thing.  One  morning  I  walked  out  to  a 
planter  a  few  miles  below  Augusta  and  hired 
myself  to  work  for  him.  There  I  was  doing  finely 
until  I  got  sick.  They  told  me,  after  I  got  up 
again,  that  I  had  been  down  for  over  a  month, 
and  that  while  the  fever  was  on  me  nobody, 
they  verily  believed,  had  ever  done  so  much 
talking.  Well,  one  morning  when  I  waked  up, 
and  I  found  myself  better,  whom  do  you  sup- 
pose I  saw  ?  Travis.  Yes,  sir ;  my  being  sick  got 
somehow  into  the  Augusta  papers,  and  Travis, 
hearing  of  it,  came  to  me  just  as  I  was  getting 
over  it.  To  my  astonishment,  he  informed  me 
of  what  I  have  told  you  of  the  operations  here 
and  their  results,  and,  in  spite  of  the  gratifica- 
tion afforded  me  by  the  news,  I  could  not 
but  reproach  myself  for  not  having  done 
a  single  thing  towards  the  extrication  which 
had  come  so  happily.  However,  I  reflected 
that  I  had  done  honestly  what  I  believed  to 
be  for  the  best,  and  I  decided  to  cast  every 
thought  except  gratitude  behind  me.  In  this 
while  Travis  also  made  something  for  himself; 
enough  to  purchase  a  small  piece  of  land,  which 
he  rents  to  some  of  his  people.  He  thinks, 
however,  that  it  is  more  to  his  advantage  to 
stay  here  with  his  wife  and  his  younger  children 
and  to  work  on  wages.  Then  you  know  many 
negroes  are,  like  white  people,  fond  of  the  places 
where  they  were  born  and  where  they  have 
always  lived.  I  am  glad  on  both  of  our  ac- 
counts that  he  prefers  that  course.  He  does  for 
himself,  I  doubt  not,  better  than  if  he  were  on 
his  own  place,  and,  under  my  directions,  man- 
ages very  well  for  me." 

At  this  period  the  man  Travis,  tall,  black, 
firmly  built,  came  to  the  door,  and,  dropping 
his  hat  upon  the  floor,  saluted  me  with  humble 
respect,  and  said : 

"Well,  Marse  Jon'than." 

"  Yes,"  the  master  answered  in  kindly  tone ; 


130 


TRAVIS  AND  MAJOR  JONATHAN   WILBY. 


"Travis,  you  no  doubt  saw  that  this  gentle- 
man's horse  was  attended  to  properly." 

"Yes,  sir,  marster." 

"  Did  the  plow  hands  get  through  with  that 
field  this  evening  ?  " 

"  Not  quite,  sir ;  be  thoo  by  a'  hour-by-sun 
in  de  mawnin'." 

"  I  hardly  thought  they  would  quite  finish 
it  to-day,  as  the  ground  is  hard  from  the 
drought,  and  I  don't  want  the  mules  pushed." 

"No,  sir,  I  know  dat;  en  I  told  de  plow- 
ers  dee  must  be  keerful  wid  'em." 

"  That  was  right.  How  was  the  cotton-pick- 
ing to-night,  Travis  ?  " 

"Right  good,  Marse  Jon'than.  I  has  to  be 
right  strenious  wid  dem  drap-shot  gang  o' 
pickers  'bout  de  bottom  bolls.  Some  on  'em 
makes  out  like  it  hurt  dey  back  to  git  down 
to  dem  bottom  boils  more  'n  grown  folks.  I 
speck  I  '11  haf  to  git  holt  o'  some  on  'em,  ef 
dee  ain'  mo'  partic'lar." 

"  Now,  now,  Travis ;  don't  be  too  hard  on 
them.  You  've  been  a  boy  yourself,  you  know." 

"  Oh,  yes,  Marse  Jon'than,"  he  retorted,  in 
good  humor,  "I  know  dat,  en  I  found  out 
dem  ve'y  time  what  de  hick'ry  was  made  fer ; 
but  I  ain'  gwine  be  too  servigous  wid  'em." 

"That  's  right;  talking  goes  a  great  way 
with  children,  if  people  will  be  prudent  and 
not  too  impatient." 

After  other  questionings  and  giving  of  di- 
rections for  the  morrow,  he  said  : 

"One  thing  more,  Travis.  This  gentleman 
wishes  to  go  to  Mr.  Henry  Bass's  early  to- 
morrow morning.  As  the  road  is  rough,  and 
not  easy  for  a  stranger  to  follow,  I  want  you 
to  go  with  him." 

"Yes,  sir." 

I  protested  against  the  trouble  I  was  giving, 
but  Mr.  Wilby  cut  me  short. 

"  No  trouble  at  all.  There  are  several  by- 
forks  by  which  you  would  be  in  danger  of  be- 
ing misled.  Travis,  you  can  ride  your  plow 
mule,  unless  you  prefer  to  walk." 

"  I  ruther  take  it  afoot,  Marse  Jon'than." 

"  If  the  man  must  go,"  I  said,  "  let  him  take 
a  seat  with  me  in  the  buggy." 

"  That  is  best  perhaps,  as  he  would  know 
better  how  to  avoid  the  stumps  and  straddle 
the  ruts.  Be  ready,  Travis,  soon  as  breakfast 
is  over.    You  can  go  now." 

When  Travis  had  gone,  Mr.  Wilby  said : 
"  I  have  to  watch  that  man  in  his  aptness  to 
be  rather  toe  hard  upon  those  under  him,  as 
I  've  no  doubt  you  've  observed  was  often  the 
case  with  negro  foremen.  He  is  so  thoroughly 
industrious  and  upright  himself  that  he  cannot 
well  understand  how  any,  even  boys,  can  be 
otherwise,  and  he  is  a  firm  believer  in  the  whip 
as  the  most  efficient  punisher  and  reformer  of 
all  shortcomings." 


We  talked  to  a  late  hour.  Several  times  he 
apologized  for  taking  more  than  a  fair  portion 
of  the  conversation. 

"  Living  here  by  myself,  as  it  were,  when  I 
do  have  an  opportunity  to  talk,  it  sometimes 
seems  difficult  for  me  to  stop.  I  suppose  a 
man's  tongue,  like  his  legs,  is  in  need  of  oc- 
casional exercise ;  if  so,  mine  cannot  complain 
to-night,  eh  ?  " 

I  answered  that  I  had  been  very  much  en- 
tertained. Indeed,  I  had  been.  Much  of  his 
conversation,  especially  about  battle  and  hos- 
pital scenes,  was  at  times  extremely  graphic. 
Then  I  was  touched  by  the  sadness,  mixed 
with  what  seemed  to  be  meant  for  a  bit  of 
humor,  with  which  he  spoke  of  the  temporary 
dereliction  of  his  manhood  at  the  close  of  the 
war.  It  was  near  midnight  when,  lighting  a 
candle,  and  conducting  me  to  bed,  he  said: 

"  You  may  sleep  without  anxiety  about  wak- 
ing in  good  time  for  breakfast.  I  will  call  you. 
Sleep  well.    Good-night." 

I  could  not  but  lie  awake  for  some  time, 
thinking  of  this  man,  so  gentle,  almost  child- 
like, yet  cultured,  firm,  and  apparently  with 
much  business  capacity ;  and  I  made  up  my 
mind  that,  as  far  as  I  could  do  so  with  propriety, 
I  would  get  Travis  to  tell  me  more  about  him 
the  while  he  was  conducting  me  to  the  person 
whom  I  sought. 


II. 

When  I  rose  next  morning  a  few  minutes 
before  it  was  time  to  call  me,  and  unexpectedly 
appeared  before  Major  Wilby  sitting  on  his 
piazza,  holding  in  one  hand  his  watch,  and 
reading  in  a  large  octavo  volume  that  lay  in 
his  lap,  he  looked  up  quickly,  and,  shutting 
the  book,  said : 

"  Ah,  ha !  Up  already  ?  Good-morning.  I 
should  have  called  you  in  ten  minutes  more. 
I  hope  you  slept  enough,  at  least  as  near  so  as 
possible  after  being  kept  up  by  me  so  late  last 
night.  I  felt  rather  remorseful  about  it  when  I 
got  back  to  myself.  However,"  without  waiting 
for  me  to  remonstrate,  "  it  's  only  once.  If 
your  time  would  allow  you  to  give  me  another 
night,  I  'd  agree  to  have  supper  by  sunset  and 
let  you  go  to  bed  with  the  chickens.  I  've  just 
been  reading  Stephens's  account  of  Lee's  last 
fight.  I  think  I  've  read  the  book  at  least  a 
dozen  times." 

Shortly  afterwards  we  sat  down  to  breakfast. 
With  polite  insistence  he  often  asked  me  to  par- 
take again  of  the  several  nicely  cooked  dishes. 
I  noticed,  as  at  supper,  that  he  ate  quite  tem- 
perately, though  dallying  long  with  apparently 
choicest  appetite  on  what  was  upon  his  plate. 
My  equipage  and  Travis  in  his  best  clothes 
were  waiting  at  the  gate  when  breakfast  was 


TRAVIS  AND  MAJOR  JONATHAN   WILBY. 


!3J 


over.  After  I  was  seated  in  the  buggy,  my  host, 
giving  me  his  hand,  said : 

"I  'm  sorry  you  cannot  give  me  another 
night.  I  don't  remember  when  I  have  enjoyed 
anything  more  than  your  visit.  Please  never 
pass  this  way  without  giving  me  a  call. 
Good-by.   God  bless  you  !  Be  careful,  Travis." 

Rugged  as  the  way  was,  I  enjoyed  much  the 
travel  on  that  sweet  autumnal  morning.  Almost 
throughout  the  drive  of  three  miles  the  pri- 
meval forest  was  yet  standing,  and  the  great 
oaks  and  lesser  trees  that  rose  as  if  in  waiting 
around  them  showed  the  generous  fecundity  of 
the  dark  soil  in  contrast  with  the  rich,  deep  red 
on  our  side  of  the  Oconee.  Upon  the  cotton 
fields  the  light  frost  that  had  fallen  was  ripen- 
ing fast  the  upper  bolls,  and  the  varying  red 
and  purple  on  the  sassafras,  sweet-gum,  black- 
gum,  and  maple  along  the  small  streams,  in 
relief  with  the  brown  and  yellow  of  the  uncut 
woods,  made  the  landscape  pleasant  to  look 
upon.  Travis  spoke  not  except  in  answer  to 
my  questionings,  which  at  first  were  touching 
the  conditions  of  things  in  general  within  that 
region. 

"  I  doubt,  Travis,"  said  I,  "  if  these  black 
lands  over  here  are  not  as  good  as  the  red 
lands  of  our  county.  I  had  n't  been  thinking  so; 
but  the  cotton  and  corn  I  have  seen  yesterday 
evening  and  this  morning  are  equal  to  any  that 
our  people  have  to  show." 

"  Hit  's  tough  land,  marster ;  hit  's  mon- 
s'ous  pow'ful  tough.  But  yit,  if  people  take 
pains  wid  her,  en  doan'  over-crop  deyse'f,  en 
keep  up  wid  her,  she  gwine  pay.  back  de  wuk 
put  on  her ;  dat  is,  ef  de  seasons  doan'  come 
too  onreg'lar." 

"  You  find  the  colored  people  and  the  whites 
in  this  neighborhood  likely  to  get  along  well 
together  ?  " 

"  Oh,  yes,  sir,  mos'ly.  At  de  fuss  offstart, 
some  o'  de  white  folks  en  some  o'  de  colored 
people,  dee  got  kinder  'spicious  o'  one  'nother, 
which  you  know  yourse'f,  marster,  de  colored 
people  is  natchul'  skeary  o'  white  folks,  dee  not 
havin'  de  eddication  ner  not  de  sense  o'  white 
folks;  en  when  dee  found  out  dee  all  could 
vote,  en  some  de  white  folks  could  n't,  it  tuck 
pains,  I  tell  you,  now,  to  keep  things  on  livin' 
ways.  En  den  all  de  white  folks,  like  Marse 
Jon'than,  en  Mr.  Bass,  whar  we  gwine  now, 
dee  was  n't  all  like  dem  two,  in  'lowin'  col- 
ored people  a  fa'r  livin'  chance ;  but  things  is 
rig'lated  now  toPble  well  over  here.  Colored 
people,  des  like  po'  white  folks,  dee  found  out 
dee  have  to  wuk  fur  deyse'f  en  dey  famblies, 
en  votin'  war  n't  gwine  feed  none  o'  'em ;  en 
den  white  folks  en  colored  begin,  seem-like, 
to  have  some  peace  in  dey  mind,  like  befo' 
de  waw." 

"  You  all  at  Mr.  Wilby's  seem  to  get  along 


very  easily.  I  have  n't  seen  a  household  that 
so  reminded  me  of  old  times." 

"  Oh,  yes,  sir.  We  all  gits  'long  fuss-rate  wid 
Marse  Jon'than.  He  never  bodders  to  hurt ; 
not  nobody,  Marse  Jon'than  don't.  He  set  in 
de  house,  en  read  his  book,  en  he  nuver  in- 
terrup'  nobody,  en  nobody  doan'  interrup' 
him." 

"  But  I  notice  that  he  takes  a  strong  inter- 
est in  the  business  of  his  plantation.  He  told 
me  that  he  has  a  talk  with  you  every  night, 
giving  directions  for  next  day's  work." 

He  was  silent  for  a  brief  while,  then  an- 
swered : 

"  Den  you  ain'  know  what  ail  po'  Marse 
Jon'than." 

"  Why,  no ;  is  n't  he  all  right  ?  " 

"  Oh,  yes,  sir;  oh,  yes,  marster,"  he  said 
quickly.  "  Marse  Jon'than  's  all  right,  excep- 
tion in  his  head,  which  it  ain'  de  same  like 
befo'  de  waw.  People  'bout  here  dee  all 
knows  'bout  it,  else  I  would  n'  let  on." 

"  I  am  greatly  surprised  to  hear  that,  Tra- 
vis. I  had  been  thinking  that  Mr.  Wilby  was 
one  of  the  most  intelligent  men  that  I  've  met 
in  a  long  time." 

"  De  Laud  bless  your  soul,  marster !  Marse 
Jon'than  ain'  lackin'  in  sensible;  he  know 
more  'n  ary  'nother  white  man  in  dis  whole 
settlement.  All  de  white  folks  '11  tell  you  de 
same.  Why,  sir,  Marse  Jon'than  ken  tell  people 
all  'bout  things  long  befo'  dee  or  dey  parrens 
er  gran'parrens  was  born.  He  even  ken  go 
back  en  tell  'bout  de  Injins,  en  how  dee  col- 
lupsed  people  wid  dey  tomberhawks  en  dey 
wigwoms,  atter  dee  shoot  'em  wid  dey  bo'  'n' 
arrers;  en  he  ken  p'int  out  de  very  tree  whar 
his  pappy's  grandpappy  en  some  un  'em  hung 
up  a  Tory  t'  other  side  de  'Conee  River.  Yes, 
sir,  dat  he  ken.  But  de  trouble  wid  Marse 
Jon'than,  his  head  ain'  right,  en  hain'  be'n  not 
sence  he  got  waounded  in  de  waw,  en  he  come 
home,  en  he  see  ev'ybody  so  to'  up,  he  jes 
drap  ev'ythin',  en  went  off,  en  he  staid  whell 
we  found  out  whar  he  war  thar  not  fur  from 
A'gusty,  en  I  went  atter  him,  en  I  fotch  him 
back  atter  he  got  so  he  could  trabble.  Did  n' 
he  tell  you  nothin'  'bout  all  dat  las'  night  ? 
He  love  to  tell  'bout  hisse'f  en  whut  he  be'n 
thoo,  when  he  ketch  up  wid  a  man  he  see  dey 
doan'  know  'bout  it.  But  dat  's  mons'ous  sil- 
dom ;  beca'se  he  doan*  go  nowhar,  en  people 
'bout  here  dee  all  knows  'bout  it." 

"  Yes,  indeed,  he  did  tell  me  a  good  many 
things  about  himself  that  were  very  interesting; 
but  I  did  not  suspect  that  his  mind  had  been 
affected  at  all  by  his  wound.  Does  he  know, 
or  has  he  any  suspicion,  that  such  is  the  case  ?  " 

"  Oh,  no,  so,  dat  he  don't.  Ef  he  knowed 
dat,  nobody  could  keep  him  dar  nary  single 
day,  not  dee  could  n'." 


132 


TRAVIS  AND  MAJOR  JONATHAN   WILBY. 


«  Why  ?    Is  n't  that  his  home  ?  " 

"  Oh,  yes,  sir ;  yes,  sir.  Right  dar  whar  you 
see  him  las'  night,  dar  he  was  born  en  raised." 

"  Well,  I  can't  understand  why  he  could 
wish  to  leave  it,  unless  it  were  to  go  for  treat- 
ment to  the  lunatic  asylum  at  Milledgeville." 

"  De  good  Laud  he'p  my  soul  en  body  agin 
Marse  Jon'than  nuver  gwine  to  Mil'geville,  en 
him  locked  up  wid  dem  po'  'stracted  people 
in  dat  gweat  big  house  !  No,  sir,  Marse  Jon'- 
than could  n'  stan'  sech  as  dat,  not  for  one 
blessed  munt;  dat  he  could  n',  raised  like  he 
be'n  raised.  En  dat  whut  ev'ybody  dat  know 
him  want  to  hender  by  not  a-'sputin'  wid  him 
en  let  him  have  his  own  way  'bout  ev'ythin', 
en  him  not  findin'  out  dey  anythin'  de  marter 
wid  his  head.  Make  my  fresh  crawl,  idee 
Marse  Jon'than  gwine  'way  f'om  here,  en  spe- 
cial' to  take  up  wid  dem  po'  creeturs  in  Mil'ge- 
ville ! " 

aWas  there  thought  to  be  any  difficulty  in 
his  mind  before  receiving  his  wound  ?  " 

"  Well,  now,  marster,  I  be'n  a  'spicion  'n  my 
mind,  en  so  have  Ritter.  She  's  my  wife,  en  it 
was  her  you  see  in  de  dinin'-room  'long  her  lit- 
tle gal  —  me  en  Ritter,  we  'spicions  de  trouble 
beginned  wid  Marse  Jon'than  befo'  he  got 
waounded,  en  dat  dat  made  him  wusser.  You 
see,  Marse  Henry  Bass,  whar  we  gwine  dis 
very  mawnin',  he  have  a  little  gal  name  Miss 
Lizy.  I  ain'  talkin'  'bout  now,  but  befo'  de 
waw.  She  war  always  a  mons'ous  putty  child, 
en  Marse  Jon'than  be'n  sayin,  ev'y  sence  she 
war  a  leetle  bit  o'  thing,  runnin'  'bout  in  pant'- 
lets,  en  wadin'  in  de  spring  branch,  dat  when 
she  got  to  be  a  'oman,  he  war  gwine  have  her 
for  his  wife.  En  so  when  she  war  'bout  fif- 
teen year  old,  en  Marse  Jon'than  'gin  to  make 
up  to  her,  sho  'nough,  lo  en  behole,  here  come 
'long  de  waw.  En  Marse  Jon'than,  he  war 
agin  de  waw  hisse'f;  but  he  say,  he  bein'  a 
bach'lor,  he  think  he  ought  to  go  right  'long, 
'mong  de  fust ;  but  he  tell  Ritter,  befo'  he  lef ', 
dat  he  have  ax  Miss  Lizy  to  wait  for  him,  en 
Miss  Lizy  say  she  war  gwine  do  it.  But  when 
Marse  Jon'than  be'n  gone  'bout  a  year  er  sicha 
marter,  dey  come  'long  a  colonel  wid  gold  things 
on  his  clo's,  en  he  overpersuade  Miss  Lizy,  en 
her  pa  he  war  strong  agin  it ;  but  dee  runned 
away,  dee  did,  en  de  man,  en  which  dee  all  say 
he  war  n'  no  colonel,  but  he  have  runned  away 
f'om  de  waw,  en  people  was  atter  him  to  fetch 
him  back  en  shoot  him.  En  he  war  n'  good  to 
Miss  Lizy,  en  atter  a  while  she  come  back 
home,  she  did,  en  she  have  a  little  baby  dat  it 
come  dead,  en  den  Miss  Lizy,  she  died.  En 
when  Marse  Jon'than  come  home  wid  a  furler 
not  long  atterwards,  look  like  all  dat  was  too 
much  for  him,  en  he  did  n'  eat  nothin'  'tall 
hardly,  en  he  git  up  en  walk  'bout  of  a  night 
when  he  ought  to  stay  in  bed  en  git  well  o'  de 


sickness  he  come  home  wid  ;  en  befo'  his  time 
war  up,  he  went  back  to  de  waw,  en  he  say  to 
me  he  doan'  keer  ef  de  Yankees  kill  him,  only 
ef  he  ken  come  up  one  time  wid  de  man  dat  do 
Miss  Lizy  so.  En  sho  'nough  de  news  come 
dat  Marse  Jon'than  done  got  shot  in  de  head, 
en  was  in  de  'orspit'l  •  en  I  want  to  go  to 
him,  but  Marse  Henry  Bass  say  no,  better 
not  yit  awhile;  mought  be  I  could  n'  git  to 
him,  en  do  no  good  ef  I  did.  En  den  de  waw, 
it  stop  at  las'  atter  it  be'n  seemin'  like  it  nuver 
was  gwine  stop  whell  ev'ybody  was  kill  er 
gone  to  payishin'.  En  den  Marse  Jon'than,  he 
come  home  ag'in,  en  look  like  he  nuver  took 
no  intruss  in  nothin'.  En  he  owe  some  o'  de 
neighbors,  en  he  owe  a  man  in  Macon,  en  de 
neighbors  dee  all  say,  pay  when  you  ken,  as 
much  as  you  ken ;  but  de  Macon  man  he  say 
he  want  all  his'n  now,  dollar  for  dollar.  En  ef 
Marse  Jon'than  be'n  right  in  his  head,  he  'd  a 
knowed  he  could  squar'  off  wid  all  'em  in  time  ; 
but  he  say  no,  let  people  take  what  he  got ; 
en  bless  your  soul,  befo'  I  knowed  it,  he  have 
done  lef  en  gone,  nobody  know  whar.  En 
sho  'nough,  dat  Macon  man,  when  he  sue 
Marse  Jon'than,  en  level  on  de  plantation  en 
de  res'  o'  de  prop'ty,  en  Marse  Henry  bought 
it  in,  den  de  trouble  was  to  find  Marse  Jon'than. 
En  at  las'  de  A'gusty  paper  let  out  whar  he 
was,  en  I  went  on  down  dar  soon  I  heerd  de 
news,  en  I  nussed  him  night  en  day  one  whole 
solid  munt ;  en  Ritter  she  got  oneasy,  she  did, 
en  she  declar',  't  warn'  for  her  younges'  child,  en 
she  war  n'  feared  a-gittin'  los',  she  'd  'a'  come 
atter  me,  like  I  went  atter  Marse  Jon'than.  I 
speck  you  know  how  women  is.  En  it  look 
like  ev'ythin'  people  could  do  wid  him  he 
gwine  die.  Tell  de  truth,  marster,  I  got  down 
on  my  knees  ev'y  day  en  ev'y  night,  en  I  pray 
de  Laud  to  spar'  him  dis  one  time,  en  not  let 
him  die  'ceptin'  whell  I  could  git  him  back 
whar  he  was  born  en  whar  his  pa  and  his  ma 
died.  En,  sho  'nough,  one  mawnin', —  en  he 
ain'  be'n  knowin'  me  all  dat  time, —  but  one 
mawnin',  atter  he  have  one  good  long  sleep, 
he  wake  up,  en  he  look  at  me,  en  he  say, 
1  Hello,  Travis ! '  En  den  I  des  cried  en  I 
laughed.  Be'n  I  gwine  be  hung,  I  could  n'  he'p 
nary  one.  En  den,  even  atter  all  dat,  he  would  n' 
say  he  were  comin'  back  wid  me  whell  I  tell 
him  de  debts  mos'  done  all  paid  en  de  planta- 
tion a-runnin'  same  like  befo' ;  en  dar  he  be'n 
ev'y  sence  des  like  you  see  him." 

I  felt  deeply  interested  in  this  story,  and  I 
said  to  the  negro  : 

"Travis,  from  this  account  I  take  you  to 
be  as  good  a  pattern  of  faithfulness  as  I  have 
ever  seen.  You  and  your  former  master's  friend 
managed  very  well.  You  and  he,  besides  mak- 
ing good  crops,  I  suppose  made  compromises 
with  the  creditors  ?  " 


TRAVIS  AND   MAJOR   JONATHAN   WILBY. 


*33 


" No,  sir,"  he  answered  quickly;  "we  nuver 
made  no  comp'mise.  Marse  Jon'than  say  he 
doan'  wan'  nothin'  he  owe  to  be  dock  down, 
like  a  heap  o'  people  had  to  do ;  en  so  I  make 
whut  I  could,  en  I  gin  it  to  Marse  Henry,  en 
he  scattered  it  round  'mong  dem  Marse  Jon'- 
than owe,  en  when  de  Ian'  was  put  up,  dat  en 
de  crop  dat  year  'bout  squar'  him  out." 

"  Then  he  owes  yet  the  purchase  money  for 
which  the  plantation  was  bid  off?" 

He  was  silent  for  a  moment  or  so,  then 
answered : 

"  No,  sir.  Marse  Jon'than  doan'  owe  for  de 
Ian'  ner  nothin'  on  it.  It  was  all  bid  in  for 
him." 

"Who  bid  it  in?  " 

"  Marse  Henry  Bass  ;  he  de  one  bid  on  it." 

"Then  he  must  owe  Mr.  Bass?" 

"  No,  sir;  no,  sir,"  he  answered  promptly.  "  I 
tell  you  how  't  was,  marster.  De  money  Marse 
Henry  paid,  I  .gin  him  myse'f,  which  I  be'n 
makin'  en  savin'  for  dis  long  time.  You  see, 
marster,  Ian'  so  plenty,  en  money  so  hard  to 
git,  Marse  Henry  wid  de  fifteen  hundred  dol- 
lars I  gin  him  he  got  de  Ian',  en  I  was  dat 
glad  I  mos'  holler  out  dar  at  de  cote-'ouse." 

"  But  Travis,  it  seems  to  me  that  in  the  cir- 
cumstances the  land  belongs  to  you  instead 
of  Mr.  Wilby." 

"  Dat  whut  Marse  Henry  say,  but  it  doan' 
'pear  like  dat  to  me,  for  beca'se  I  tell  you  why, 
marster.  Ev'y  dollar  I  make,  it  war  made  out 
dat  same  plantation  which  hit  belong  to  Marse 
Jon'than,  he  got  it  by  his  own  pa,  en  him  buried 
right  dar  behine  de  gyarden  'longside  o'  his 
own  ma ;  en  seem  like  to  me  dat  Ian'  belong 
to  Marse  Jon'than,  'ceptin'  whut  he  may  'low 
to  me  when  he  come  right  in  his  head,  en  he 
see  he  ken  spar'." 

"  And  Mr.  Wilby  understands  none  of  these 
transactions  ?  " 

"  No,  sir;  dat  he  doan'." 

"  And  he  believes  now  that  he  is  entirely 
square  with  the  world  ?  " 

"  Yes,  marster.  You  see  nobody  doan'  tell 
him  'bout  de  way  de  Ian'  was  bought  in,  be- 
ca'se dee  know  he  'd  come  dissat'fied.  En  den, 
he  is  squar'  wid  de  world,  de  way  I  look 
at  it." 

"  And  what  becomes  of  the  money  made 
yearly  by  the  crops  ?  " 

"  Well,  now,  marster,  sence  cotton  done 
come  down  dey  ain'  be'n  so  mighty  much 
tuck  in  bersides  o'  payin'  o'  han's,  en  keepin' 
up  de  plantation  en  de  stock,  en  he'pin'  some 
our  own  colored  folks  en  po'  white  folks  round 
here.  Yit  dey  is  some,  en  Christmas  come, 
Marse  Jon'than  he  take  out  'bout  fifty  dollars, 
en  he  say  he  wan'  Marse  Henry  Bass  save  de 
balance,  atter  payin'  de  expenses,  en  givin' 
away  whut  he  think  he  ken  spar',  he  wan' 


Marse  Henry  to  save  for  hard  times  for  all  of 
us.  He  mighty  feared,  'casion'ly,  hard  times 
gwine  come  on  him  ag'in,  po'  Marse  Jon'- 
than !  " 

"  Does  he  go  often  among  the  hands  when 
at  work  ?  " 

"  No,  sir ;  he  mos'  hardly  nuver  do  dat,  en 
when  he  do,  doan'  bodder  wid  de  workin'.  I 
goes  in  de  big  'ouse  ev'y  night  en  he  talk  wid 
me  a  while,  en  dat  sat'fy  him." 

"  One  more  question  I  '11  ask  you,  Travis,  as 
I  suppose  the  house  we  are  approaching  is  Mr. 
Bass's  residence." 

"  Yes,  sir;  dar  whar  Marse  Henry  live;  en 
bless  your  soul,  marster,  Marse  Jon'than  ain' 
never  be'n  dar  sence  Miss  Lizy  she  died." 

"  Ay !  The  question  I  wish  to  ask  is,  do 
the  colored  people  on  the  place  understand 
how  things  are  ?  " 

"  No,  no,  sir ;  'ceptin'  o'  Ritter,  en  I  nuver 
told  her  more  'n  I  could  he'p.  She  love  Marse 
Jon'than  same  like  me,  beca'se  she  nussed  him 
too.  But  den  you  know,  marster,  f'om  your 
own  expeunce,  ef  you  married,  a  man  need  n't 
be  tellin'  his  wife  ev'ythin'  he  know." 

When  we  had  reached  our  destination,  and 
the  man,  having  dismounted,  was  about  to 
turn  back,  I  took  off  my  hat,  involuntarily,  as 
it  were,  and,  giving  him  my  hand,  said : 

"  Travis,  I  am  glad  I  met  your  Marse  Jon- 
athan, as  you  call  Major  Wilby,  and  more  so 
that  I  have  seen  and  held  this  conversation 
with  you.  Well  as  I  thought  I  knew  your 
people,  this  has  surprised  me.  Give  my  thanks 
to  the  major  for  all  his  kindness.  I  thank  you 
also  for  yours.  Good-by.  I  have  not  a  doubt 
that  God  will  bless  you,  in  this  world,  and  in 
the  next. 

"  Thanky,  marster;  you  're  mighty  welcome. 
Far'well." 

He  turned  and  went  his  way.  After  my 
business  with  Mr.  Bass  was  finished,  on  my 
mention  of  the  conversation  I  had  had  with 
the  man,  he  confirmed  every  statement  made 
except  that  relating  to  his  own  daughter,  to 
whom  neither  he  nor  I  made  allusion. 

"  The  case,"  he  said,  "  is  well  understood 
throughout  the  neighborhood,  and,  indeed, 
in  the  county  generally.  The  plantation  and 
everything  appertaining  to  it  belong  to  Travis, 
and  the  records  are  in  his  name.  Such  is  the 
well-known  delicacy  of  Major  Wilby,  amount- 
ing to  extreme  sensitiveness  of  every  appear- 
ance of  wrongdoing  on  his  own  part,  that 
people  never  think  of  disabusing  his  mind  of 
the  illusion  under  which  he  lives,  and  so  strong 
is  the  affection  for  him  had  by  this  old  slave, 
that  I  believe  he  sometimes  tries  to  persuade 
himself  that  the  property  rightfully  belongs  to 
his  former  master.  I  am  glad  you  made  the 
major's  acquaintance  and  spent  a  night  there 


J34 


"/   VEX  ME   NOT   WITH  BROODING    ON  THE    YEARS." 


with  him.  Such  companionship  does  him  good. 
He  '11  be  referring  to  your  visit  for  a  long  time. 
He  is  very  fond  of  the  society  of  thoughtful, 
cultured  people,  although  he  never  makes  vis- 
its himself.  I  don't  wonder  you  did  not  dis- 
cover, in  so  limited  a  visit,  his  infirmity.  He 
is,  and  always  has  been,  a  thorough  gentleman 
in  his  instincts  and  deportment.  No  misfortune 
could  befall  him  so  unhappy  as  for  him  to  find 
out  his  true  relation  to  Travis,  whom  he  never 
takes  to  be  other  than  a  servant  working  for 


wages.    Indeed,  the  negro  himself  prefers  to 
feel  as  if  such  were  really  the  case." 

Shortly  afterwards,  having  taken  leave  of 
Mr.  Bass,  I  drove  on.  I  had  been  witness, 
even  a  recipient,  of  the  old  affectionateness  of 
slaves  continuing  unhurt  by  the  war  and  eman- 
cipation ;  but  now,  reflecting  on  what  I  had 
seen  lately,  somehow  I  felt  that  I  had  been  in 
the  presence  of  a  majesty,  in  its  kind,  higher 
than  I  had  believed  possible  to  humanity  in 
any  condition. 

Richard  Malcolm  Johnston. 


Mmmmg 


mm 


ii     mtftrr 


"I  VEX  ME  NOT  WITH   BROODING  ON  THE  YEARS." 


I  VEX  me  not  with  brooding  on  the  years 
That  were  ere  I  drew  breath :  why  should  I  then 

Distrust  the  darkness  that  may  fall  again 

When  life  is  done  ?    Perchance  in  other  spheres — 
Dead  planets  —  I  once  tasted  mortal  tears, 

And  walked  as  now  among  a  throng  of  men, 

Pondering  things  that  lay  beyond  my  ken, 

Questioning  death,  and  solacing  my  fears. 
Who  knows  ?    Ofttimes  strange  sense  have  I  of  this, 

Vague  memories  that  hold  me  with  a  spell, 

Touches  of  unseen  lips  upon  my  brow, 
Breathing  some  incommunicable  bliss  ! 

In  years  foregone,  O  Soul,  was  all  not  well  ? 

Still  lovelier  life  awaits  thee.     Fear  not  thou ! 

Thomas  Bailey  A  Id  rich. 


THE    AUTOBIOGRAPHY    OF    JOSEPH    JEFFERSON.1 


AUSTRALIA. 

Nthe  i  oth  of  September,  1861, 
I  sailed  from  San  Francisco 
in  the  fine  ship  Ninirod, 
bound  for  Port  Phillip  and 
the  harbor  of  Sydney.  I  had 
only  my  son,  my  agent,  and 
my  agent's  mother  with  me. 
There  were  two  or  three  other  passengers  besides 
ourselves,  one  of  whom  I  must  make  special 
mention  of:  he  was  a  Catholic  priest,  a  cheer- 
ful, pleasant  man,  named  Father  O' Grady. 

From  California  to  Australia  is  what  the 
sailors  call  a  fair-weather  passage,  most  of  it 
being  made  through  the  trade-winds.  Our 
present  voyage  was  what  might  be  called  a 
pleasant,  uneventful  trip  of  sixty-four  days. 
I  passed  most  of  the  time  in  reading,  sketch- 
ing, and  trying  to  divert  Father  O' Grady  from 
celibacy;  I  told  him  he  was  altogether  too 
good  a  fellow  for  a  single  man,  and  assured  him 
that  he  would  never  know  what  true  happi- 
ness was  till  he  got  a  wife  by  his  side  and  had 
half  a  dozen  children  on  his  knee.  Our  theo- 
logical arguments  on  the  quarter-deck  were  a 
source  of  great  amusement  to  ourselves  and 
the  passengers.  O'Grady  when  he  got  excited 
would  walk  up  and  down  the  deck,  tossing  his 
long  arms  wildly  about  as  if  he  were  making 
signals  of  distress. 

We  passed  to  the  south,  and  just  in  sight 
of  Norfolk  Island,  which  is  said  to  be  the  love- 
liest spot  in  the  Pacific  Ocean.  It  was  for- 
merly a  convict  station,  but  the  prisoners  had 
been  removed  for  many  years,  and  the  place 
was  then,  and  I  believe  is  now,  occupied  by 
a  colony  called  the  Pitcairn  Islanders.  The 
"  mutiny  of  the  Bounty,"  it  will  be  remembered, 
occurred  during  the  latter  part  of  the  last  cen- 
tury, and  the  people  now  living  on  Norfolk 
Island  are  the  descendants  of  the  mutineers. 

On  the  4th  of  Novemb.er  the  coast  of  Aus- 
tralia loomed  up  before  us.  A  great  wall  of  rocks 
rises  almost  perpendicularly  from  the  ocean,  and 
the  narrow  opening  directly  in  front  of  us  is 
called  Sydney  Heads.  When  a  ship  arrives 
in  sight  of  this  formidable  place  it  is  custom- 
ary for  the  sailors  to  inform  the  passengers 
that  this  is  the  most  dangerous  spot  in  the 
world.  A  thrilling  story  at  this  point  of  the 
voyage  seems  to  be  in  order,  and  one  of  the 
crew  is  generally  called  upon  to  relate  an  aw- 

1  Copyright,  1889,  by  JOSEPH  J 


ful  catastrophe  that  once  occurred  in  the  very 
sight  of  the  spot  where  the  ship  is  sailing.  We 
stood  out  well  to  sea  that  night,  as  the  weather 
had  a  threatening  aspect,  and  at  daylight,  the 
wind  being  fair,  made  again  for  the  land.  The 
pilot  sighted  us,  and  brought  the  ship  safely  over 
the  treacherous  shoals  into  the  beautiful  harbor 
of  Sydney.  Once  inside,  if  the  day  be  fine,  what 
perfect  .fairyland  is  here :  the  rocks  are  of  a 
beautiful  siena  tint,  surmounted  with  rich  foli- 
age in  every  shade  of  green ;  numerous  little 
crescent  bays  edged  with  white  sand  curve  in 
and  out,  meeting  the  deep  blue  water;  islands 
crowned  with  tall  and  graceful  trees ;  parrots 
in  the  gaudiest  coats  of  plumage  fly  in  flocks 
chattering  and  screaming  through  the  air;  and 
the  whole  harbor  is  dotted  with  white  sails  and 
gaily  painted  streamers.  In  the  middle  distance 
is  the  beautiful  city  of  Sydney :  a  long,  low  line 
of  shipping  stretches  in  front,  and  as  the  high 
bluff  rises  behind  the  tapering  masts,  the  town, 
with  its  tall,  white  stone  buildings  and  church 
spires,  finishes  the  picture.  As  our  ship  sailed 
into  this  dreamland  of  beauty  there  was  a  rich 
purple  haze  veiling  the  scene;  the  sun  shone 
like  gold  in  the  far-off  horizon,  and  as  it  sank 
behind  the  city  the  purple  deepened  into  blue. 
We  reached  the  town  and  dropped  our  anchor, 
the  night  came  slowly  on,  the  new  constel- 
lations of  stars  (not  seen  in  our  firmament) 
sparkled  over  our  heads,  myriads  of  lights  in 
the  city  and  the  surrounding  shipping  were  re- 
flected in  the  water,  and  all  these  glittering  gems 
twinkled  and  flickered  like  fireflies  about  us. 

The  next  morning  I  rose  early,  and  rejoiced 
after  sixty-four  days'  rolling  about  to  get  my 
feet  once  more  upon  land.  As  I  stepped 
ashore  I  had  that  curious  sensation  which  all 
must  feel  when  for  the  first  time  they  find  them- 
selves in  a  new  country  where,  though  they 
speak  the  same  language,  not  a  soul  knows  or 
has  ever  heard  of  them.  I  walked  through  the 
busy  streets  holding  my  son  by  the  hand,  and 
tightly  too,  for  it  was  comfort  to  feel  that  there 
was  some  one  near  who  knew  and  felt  an  in- 
terest in  me.  I  seemed  to  regret  that  I  had 
come  so  far  from  home,  and  wondered  whether 
I  should  ever  be  able  to  raise  any  interest 
among  the  vast  crowd  of  strangers  that  sur- 
rounded me. 

I  met  my  agent  by  appointment  at  the  lit- 
tle hotel  where  we  stopped,  and  he  handed 
me  the  money  he  had  gone  in  quest  of.  The 
EFFERSON.     All  rights  reserved. 


135 


136 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON.* 


first  thing  to  do  now  was  to  purchase  new 
clothes,  something  that  would  at  least  faintly 
resemble  the  costumes  of  the  people,  which 
mine  certainly  did  not  in  any  degree.  The  hat 
is  always  the  first  thing  to  change ;  everybody 
looks  at  your  hat  as  soon  as  you  arrive  in  a 
strange  country.  These  little  matters  were  soon 
amended,  and  in  a  short  hour  I  looked  quite 
like  the  people,  but  not  a  bit  like  myself.  My 
agent  had  been  a  manager  in  Australia  some 
years  before,  so  he  knew  everybody.  We  went 
to  the  theater,  where  he  introduced  me  to  the 
manager;  and  as  I  shall  have  some  little 
business  relations  with  this  gentleman  of  an 
interesting  sort,  perhaps  it  will  be  as  well  to 
describe  him,  he  being  almost  an  historical 
character.  He  was  an  under-sized,  round- 
shouldered  little  cockney,  named  Rolamo. 
Where  he  got  this  remarkably  Italian  appel- 
lation I  cannot  say,  but  if  his  ancestors  be- 
longed to  the  "  land  of  song"  they  must  have 
strayed  into  the  very  heart  of  Whitechapel 
just  previous  to  the  birth  of  their  son  and  heir, 
as  his  dialect  was  strongly  impregnated  with 
the  drawling  twang  of  that  locality.  It  is 
recorded  of  him  that  he  never  was  known 
to  put  an  h  in  the  right  place,  and  his  talent 
for  reversing  the  w  and  v  almost  amounted  to 
genius.  He  had  originally  been  lamplighter 
in  the  theater,  but  by  his  industry  and  intelli- 
gence he  rose  to  be  its  manager,  and  he  was  in 
the  zenith  of  his  fame  when  I  arrived  in  Aus- 
tralia. After  my  introduction  by  my  agent  to 
Mr.  Rolamo  as  the  coming  man  who  was  to 
make  his  (the  manager's)  fortune,  that  worthy 
cast  a  patronizing  eye  over  me,  but  did  not 
seem  at  all  overwhelmed,  taking  my  arrival 
with  provoking  coolness.  This  chilling  atmos- 
phere pervaded  the  office  until  my  agent  un- 
rolled some  highly  inflammable  printed  matter, 
the  novel  character  of  which  seemed  to  attract 
the  great  man's  attention,  and  condescending 
to  address  me,  he  said,  "You  see,  Mr.  Jef- 
fries,— oh,  beg  pardon;  Jimmison,  I  mean, — 
with  all  due  respect  to  you,  there  'as  been  so 
many  blawsted  Yankee  comics  over  'ere  that 
we  are  kind  o'  sick  on  'em.  You  may  be  a  hex- 
tra  good  lot  for  all  I  know,  but  lately  the 
queerest  mummers  we  've  'ad  'ave  come  from 
Amerikee.  This  printed  stuff  you  've  got  looks 
spicy, —  in  fact  I  don't  know  as  I  ever  see  spi- 
cier,—  but  it  don't  prove  nothink,  does  it  ?  " 

My  agent  here  broke  in  with  the  assurance 
that  I  was  a  legitimate  actor  and  not  a  mummer. 

"  Legitimate ! "  said  the  manager.  "  Well,  that 
's  the  worst  rot  of  all.  The  legitimate  would 
wentilate  my  theeater  on  the  first  night ;  and 
as  for  that  dismal  old  guy  'Amlet,  I  would  n't 
'ave  'im  at  no  price." 

I  told  him  that  Hamlet  was  not  upon  my 
bill  of  characters,  and  that  so  far  as  I  was 


concerned  the  reputation  of  his  theater  would 
be  in  no  way  desecrated  by  any  Shaksperean 
productions.  Besides,  I  admitted  his  perfect 
right  to  protect  himself  against  fraud,  and 
that,  as  I  was  a  stranger,  I  proposed  first  to 
show  him  what  my  material  consisted  of,  and 
wound  up  by  offering  to  rent  his  theater  and 
company,  paying  him  a  good  bonus  to  relin- 
quish the  management  into  our  hands  for  a 
month,  and  that  if  we  could  agree  upon  terms 
his  money  should  be  paid  in  advance.  At  this 
proposal  the  hard  features  of  Mr.  Rolamo 
softened  into  an  oily  sweetness  that  was  lovely 
to  behold ;  he  gently  put  out  both  hands  to 
grasp  mine,  his  eyes  fairly  beamed'on  me  with 
affection,  and  his  heart  seemed  so  touched  that 
it  quite  choked  his  utterance. 

"  My  dear  lad,"  said  he,  "  that  's  the  way  I 
likes  to  hear  a  cove  talk ;  for  I  always  believes 
in  a  cove  wot  believes  in  hisself." 

Terms  were  soon  agreed  upon,  and  it  was 
settled  that  the  contract  should  be  signed  that 
evening  and  the  first  advance  paid.  In  due 
time  our  printing  was  posted  on  the  walls,  and 
the  lithographs  —  a  novel  feature  in  those  days 
—  were  placed  in  the  shop  windows.  I  passed 
my  time  in  wandering  about  the  streets,  ob- 
serving the  startled  inhabitants  as  they  scanned 
the  pictures,  stopping  from  time  to  time  to  lis- 
ten to  their  remarks. 

Of  course  my  first  night  in  Sydney  was  spent 
at  the  theater,  always  an  attractive  point  to  the 
actor.  It  is  said  that  few  men  are  in  love  with 
their  vocation,  but  this  remark  cannot  be 
applied  with  justice  to  members  of  the  theatri- 
cal profession ;  some  actors  will  play  without 
salary  rather  than  not  act  at  all.  On  this  oc- 
casion, however,  it  was  more  a  matter  of  busi- 
ness than  pleasure  that  took  me  to  the  play. 
I  was  anxious  to  see  the  kind  of  acting  that 
was  most  effective  here,  and  also  to  examine 
the  qualities  of  the  company  in  reference  to 
their  fitness  for  the  characters  in  my  list  of 
plays.  I  found  the  acting  much  better  than  I 
expected;  in  fact,  throughout  the  colonies  I 
was  invariably  impressed  by  this  dramatic 
excellence.  The  actors  had  originally  come 
from  England  to  Australia  to  star.  Afterwards 
in  many  instances  they  had  settled  here,  making 
it  their  home,  and  as  their  novelty  wore  off 
had  dropped  into  the  different  stock  companies, 
and  so  had  become  admirable  supporters  to  the 
stars  that  followed.  I  sat  in  front  of  the  theater 
on  the  night  referred  to,  and,  as  the  actors  came 
upon  the  stage  one  by  one,  I  plainly  saw  that 
I  had  my  work  cut  out  if  I  expected  to  stand 
prominently  forward  amidst  such  surroundings. 
It  was  also  quite  evident  that  the  delicate  sen- 
sibilities of  Mr.  Rolamo  had  failed  to  appreci- 
ate the  fine  legitimate  qualities  of  his  company, 
and  had  moreover  underrated  the  taste  of  his 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


J37 


patrons.  In  a  few  days  it  was  settled  that 
the  company  should  assemble  in  the  green- 
room, where  I  was  to  be  formally  introduced 
previous  to  reading  my  opening  play  to  them. 
The  introduction  was  given  under  the  "  aus- 
pices "  of  the  manager,  who  performed  the 
ceremony  after  the  following  manner.  Usher- 
ing me  into  the  presence  of  the  company,  he 
made  an  awkward  bow,  forgetting  to  take  off 
his  hat, — a  tall,  black,  semi-spiral-shaped  article 
with  a  large  dent  in  it, —  and  announced  me 
as  "  Mr.  Jimminson  from  Amerikee." 

I  found  the  company  obliging,  and,  as  I  ex- 
pected, thoroughly  competent.  Matters  pro- 
gressed favorably,  the  pieces  for  the  first  week 
were  rehearsed,  and  all  things  were  duly  pre- 
pared for  the  opening.  The  house  was  quite 
good  on  that  night,  and  the  audience  gener- 
ous and  sympathetic ;  they  seemed  to  appre- 
ciate what  a  thorough  stranger  I  was,  "and 
as  a  stranger  gave  me  welcome." 

When  the  curtain  fell,  I  was  congratulated 
by  the  company  and  Mr.  Rolamo,  who  I  fan- 
cied was  a  little  annoyed  to  think  that  he  had 
not  made  other  terms  with  me,  as  his  compli- 
ments were  couched  in  the  following  remark: 
"  I  say,  mister,  I  took  you  for  a  green  un  when 
I  first  see  you ;  you  got  a  kind  o'  innocent  look 
about  you,  but  you're  sharp,  do  you  know 
that  ?  "  I  told  him  that  I  did  not  think  I  was 
particularly  sagacious,  but  thanked  him  for  the 
delicacy  of  his  compliment,  and  hoped  that  I 
might  live  to  deserve  it. 

I  was  fortunate  in  bringing  with  me  to  Aus- 
tralia a  large  amount  of  new  material  in  the 
matter  of  plays.  "  Rip  Van  Winkle,"  "  Our 
American  Cousin,"  and  "  The  Octoroon  "were 
all  novel,  and  their  reception  was  most  satis- 
factory. 

MELBOURNE. 

At  the  expiration  of  my  Sydney  engagement 
we  took  the  steamer  to  Melbourne.  Fawcett 
Rowe  was  the  manager  here  of  the  Princess 
Theater,  and  the  same  arrangements  were  en- 
tered into  with  him  that  had  been  made  at 
Sydney.  Our  success  in  Melbourne  was  even 
more  flattering  than  it  had  been  in  Sydney, 
and  it  was  quite  evident  from  the  impression 
made  that  we  were  likely  to  continue  our  season 
for  some  time.  The  audiences  were  numerous 
and  fashionable,  and  the  articles  in  the  daily 
papers  referring  to  our  plays  and  acting  were 
of  the  highest  literary  character;  those  in 
"The  Argus,"  written  by  the  accomplished 
critic  James  Smith,  were  models  in  style  and 
strength. 

My  engagement  at  the  Princess  extended 
to  one  hundred  and  sixty-four  consecutive 
nights.  At  its  conclusion  my  agent  and  I  dis- 
solved our  temporary  partnership,  he  assuming 
Vol,  XL.— 19. 


the  management  of  the  new  Haymarket  Thea- 
ter, and  I  going  into  the  small  mining  and 
provincial  towns  to  reap  the  benefit  of  the  repu- 
tation I  had  acquired  in  the  two  larger  cities. 
Ballarat,  Bendigo,  and  Adelaide  had  all  good 
stock  companies,  and  were  visited  in  their  turn, 
generally  with  pleasant  and  profitable  results. 

During  this  provincial  tour  I  was  acting  in 
one  of  the  mining  towns  called  Castlemaine, 
and  after  tea  as  I  was  strolling  leisurely  to- 
wards the  theater  my  ears  were  suddenly  sa- 
luted by  the  violent  ringing  of  a  bell,  and  a 
sonorous  bass  voice  roaring  out  my  name  in 
full.  I  looked  in  the  direction  of  this  unac- 
countable noise  and  saw  a  little  fat  man,  in  a 
high  white  hat  and  a  seedy  suit  of  black,  stand- 
ing on  a  barrel  in  front  of  the  theater  and  sur- 
rounded by  a  crowd  of  boys.  Gesticulating 
violently  with  his  left  hand,  he  swung  in  the 
right  an  enormous  bell.  Now  suddenly  stop- 
ping, he  seemed  to  swell  and  got  red  in  the  face 
as  he  delivered  himself  of  the  following  :  "  Oh, 
yes !  Oh,  yes !  Oh,  yes !  Step  up,  ladies  and 
gentlemen  ;  now  or  never  is  your  only  chance 
to  see  the  greatest  living  wonder  of  the  age, 
Joseph  Jefferson,  the  great  hactor  from  Ameri- 
kee. His  power  of  producing  tears  and  smiles 
at  vun  and  the  same  time  is  so  great  that  he 
caused  the  Emperor  of  Roushia  to  weep  on 
his  weddin'  night  and  made  her  gracious  Maj- 
esty the  Queen  bu'st  out  laughin'  at  the  fu- 
neral of  Prince  Albert.  He  is  the  bosom  friend 
of  the  President  of  Amerikee  and  the  hidol  of 
'is  Royal  Tghness  the  Prince  of  Wales." 

I  always  had  a  horror  of  orators.  They  are 
seldom  sincere,  and  never  hesitate  to  say  the 
wrong  thing  instead  of  the  right  one  if  they 
can  say  it  best.  To  most  of  them,  epigram  is 
more  sacred  than  truth,  and  we  are  often 
so  fascinated  with  the  manner  that  we  for- 
get somewhat  the  matter.  It  must  have  been 
the  comical  earnestness  and  bombastic  attitude 
of  this  extraordinary  creature  that  had  inter- 
ested the  crowd ;  certainly  they  did  not  be- 
lieve what  he  was  saying,  for  they  were  roaring 
with  laughter  at  every  word,  while  his  face  was 
as  serious  as  the  fifth  act  of  a  tragedy.  At  this 
juncture  I  rushed  into  the  theater  and  demanded 
that  the  manager  should  make  the  bellman 
stop.  "  Why,  we  always  have  it  done  here,  and 
thought  you  'd  like  it,"  replied  the  manager. 

"  Like  it !  "  said  I.  "  If  he  is  not  stopped  at 
once,  I  shall  not  act."  So  the  little  fat  man  was 
ordered  to  cease  his  harangue  and  come  down 
from  his  barrel :  but  no,  he  said  he  would  n't 
budge  ;  he  was  n't  half  through,  and  it  would 
injure  his  business  and  ruin  his  reputation  to 
be  cut>off  "in  the  heye  of  the  public,"  and  he 
would  "  be  blowed  "  if  he  stirred  till  he  finished. 
The  manager  now  appealed  to  me  to  let  him 
go  on.   "  Now,  mark  me,"  said  I.    "  If  he  rings 


138 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


that  bell  again,  or  opens  his  mouth,  I  don't 
act."  This  settled  it.  The  little  fat  man  now 
stood  with  his  arms  folded,  glaring  defiance  at 
the  manager  and  his  myrmidons,  but  they 
seized  him  and  a  tremendous  struggle  ensued. 
The  tall  white  hat  was  completely  mashed 
over  his  eyes,  and  in  stamping  violently  with 
his  rage  the  head  of  the  barrel  burst  in,  letting 
him  through  till  only  a  fat  head  just  appeared 
above  the  top.  They  tipped  the  barrel  over 
and  rolled  him  off  inside,  to  the  great  amuse- 
ment of  the  bystanders,  who  had  been  roaring 
with  laughter 'all  the  time. 

After  having  been  in  the  colonies  about  a 
year,  during  which  time  I  had  acted  quite 
steadily,  I  determined  to  take  a  long  rest  and 
see  a  little  of  the  interior  life  of  the  country. 
At  the  invitation  of  the  Winter  brothers,  I  vis- 
ited their  station,  the  land  they  owned,  and  the 
Government  lease  controlled  by  them,  extend- 
ing over  an  area  of  seventy  miles  in  length  and 
fifty  in  breadth.  There  are  many  such  stations 
in  Australia,  but  the  pasturage  was  thin,  and 
the  interior  of  the  country  badly  watered,  so 
that  these  vast  tracts  of  land  would  not  support 
with  much  profit  the  large  flocks  of  sheep  that 
grazed  upon  them.  My  son  and  I  lived  with  the 
Winter  brothers  several  weeks.  They  placed 
their  house,  servants,  and  horses  at  our  com- 
mand, to  which  they  added  their  own  pleasant 
company  and  warm  hospitality.  I  staid  three 
weeks  with  these  gentlemen,  shooting,  fishing, 
and  riding.  At  the  end  of  this  time  I  sent  my 
son  back  to  Melbourne  to  finish  his  term  at 
the  Scotch  college,  and  having  a  desire  to 
penetrate  farther  into  the  country,  started  for 
the  Murray  River,  where  I  was  told  I  could  see 
a  wild  and  interesting  region. 

There  are  little  settlements  along  the  river 
to  which  the  aborigines  pay  periodical  visits 
to  beg  for  ammunition  and  hold  their  "  cor- 
robories,"  as  one  of  their  mystic  ceremonies  is 
called.  In  a  few  days  I  reached  the  river,  and, 
having  a  letter  of  introduction  to  the  owner  of 
a  large  station,  took  up  my  abode  there  for  a 
fortnight,  meeting  with  the  same  kind  welcome 
that  I  was  assured  would  attend  my  visit. 

THE    "  SKELETON    DANCE." 

A  party  of  "  blacks,"  as  the  natives  are  called, 
was  encamped  near  here,  so  I  had  full  time 
to  witness  their  sports,  if  sports  they  can  be 
called,  for  more  dismal  games  can  scarcely 
be  imagined.  One  of  the  features  of  the  "  cor- 
robory"  is  the  "skeleton  dance."  I  saw  this 
weird  performance,  which  is  conducted  in  a 
curious  way.  A  long  row  of  fagots  or  broken 
sticks  was  stretched  upon  the  ground  for  a 
distance  of  forty  feet;  these  were  ignited, 
making  the  footlights  to  illuminate  the  per- 


formance. The  audience  was  made  up  of  my- 
self and  a  few  visitors,  paying  what  we  chose 
to  give  the  natives  for  their  artistic  display. 
We  were  seated  on  logs,  stumps,  and  rudely 
made  benches  in  front  of  this  elongated  fire, 
huge  logs  being  arranged  between  us  and  the 
blaze,  so  as  to  shield  the  light  from  our  eyes. 
The  actors  always  select  a  dark  and  moonless 
night  for  this  exhibition,  so  that  before  the  per- 
formance began  all  we  saw  was  a  dismal  forest 
of  tall,  gaunt  trees,  faintly  illuminated  by  the 
footlights.  Now  far  off  a  strange  sound  was 
heard,  moaning  and  faint  cries  of  distress ;  then 
came  the  dismal  beating  of  a  drum,  and  in  the 
distance,  out  of  the  darkness,  appeared  forty  or 
fifty  skeletons.  They  came  forward  slowly, 
hand  in  hand,  with  a  strange  halting  gait,  till 
they  were  close  to  the  fire.  There  they  paused, 
and  for  full  ten  minutes  were  as  still  as  death. 
The  effect  is  produced  by  painting  their  black 
bodies  with  white  earth  or  chalk.  The  bones  of 
the  human  anatomy  are  as  perfectly  marked  out 
as  if  done  by  a  surgeon  and  an  artist — attenu- 
ated white  stripes  down  their  legs,  with  bulging 
knee-caps  and  broad,  white  hips,  the  breast-bone 
and  ribs,  shoulder-blades  and  arms,  all  clearly 
defined,  and  the  long  neck  surmounted  by  a  hid- 
eous skull.  Their  black  bodies  mingle  with  the 
darkness  that  surrounds  them,  and  the  fire  shin- 
ing upon  the  white  pigment  makes  the  illusion 
quite  complete.  Not  a  sound  is  heard  for  full 
ten  minutes ;  even  the  audience  speak  in  whis- 
pers. At  some  mysterious  signal,  so  arranged 
that  no  one  can  detect  it,  every  alternate 
skeleton  begins  to  move  slowly,  the  others  re- 
maining rigid,  then  they  jerk  violently  and 
spasmodically,  and  suddenly  stopping,  they 
become  rigid ;  then  the  alternate  skeletons  be- 
gin to  move,  and  so  go  through  the  same 
fantastic  actions.  Now  they  all  screech  and 
dance  together,  and  suddenly,  turning  their 
backs,  plunge  into  the  deep  woods  and  disap- 
pear. The  spectators  seem  to  breathe  more 
freely  after  they  are  gone,  and,  looking  around 
on  one  another,  exclaim  that  it  is  the  strangest 
sight  that  they  have  ever  witnessed. 

The  next  morning  I  visited  the  camp,  such 
as  it  was,  for  they  seemed  to  have  little  or 
no  shelter.  The  tribe  numbered  about  sixty 
blacks,  and  a  more  miserable  lot  of  human 
beings  I  never  saw  —  long,  thin  legs  and  arms, 
big  stomachs,  huge,  fat  heads  covered  with 
large  shocks  of  unkempt  hair.  I  noticed  there 
were  only  two  or  three  children  among  them, 
which  seemed  rather  curious  in  so  large  a 
tribe.  I  asked  one  of  the  women  if  that  was 
her  only  child  which  she  was  holding  by  the 
hand,  to  which  she  replied,  "  Yes,  me  only 
keep  dat  one."  On  inquiry  of  the  landlord  of 
the  little  hotel  what  she  meant  by  that,  he  ex- 
plained that  he  supposed   she  had  drowned 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


T39 


all  the  other  small  members  of  the  family.  It 
seems  that  after  a  child  is  born,  if  it  is  of  much 
trouble  to  the  mother,  she  tosses  it  into  the 
river.  With  these  exhibitions  of  maternal  af- 
fection it  is  no  wonder  that  the  aborigines  of 
the  country  are  fast  disappearing.  I  don't 
suppose  that  they  make  away  with  their  chil- 
dren from  cruelty, —  for  they  do  not  seem  to 
possess  either  that  quality  or  affection, —  but 
simply  because  they  do  not  want  to  be  troubled 
with  the  care  of  them.  They  do  not  appear 
to  buy  anything  or  to  offer  anything  of  conse- 
quence for  sale,  and  as  they  wander  listlessly 
from  town  to  town  they  are  followed  by  the 
most  dreadful  lot  of  cur  dogs  of  all  sizes,  sorts, 
and  shapes,  attenuated  and  half-starved  ani- 
mals, that  look  even  more  miserable  than  their 
wretched  masters. 

One  of  their  sports  is  the  throwing  of  the 
boomerang.  This  instrument  is  made  of  hard 
wood  and  shaped  somewhat  like  a  carpenter's 
square.  If  they  wish  to  strike  an  object,  they 
hurl  the  boomerang  in  an  opposite  direction 
from  the  mark.  It  shoots  forward  at  tremen- 
dous speed,  and  then  suddenly  stops  for  a  mo- 
ment, and,  making  a  sharp  turn,  comes  back- 
ward almost  to  the  place  it  started  from,  and 
so  strikes  the  object  aimed  at.  Some  people 
think  that  this  eccentric  movement  is  caused 
by  the  shape  of  the  instrument ;  but  be  that  as 
it  may,  no  one  can  throw  it  with  any  precision 
but  the  native  blacks. 

The  scenery  in  the  interior  of  Australia  is 
in  many  respects  uninteresting,  having  but  lit- 
tle variety.  The  blue-gum  tree,  or  eucalyptus, 
grows  everywhere.  This  tree  is  said  to  have 
the  virtue  of  absorbing  malarious  poisons  from 
the  air,  and  has  been  introduced  in  California 
and  the  Southern  States  with  marked  success. 


THE    SHEPHERD. 

On  one  of  my  excursions,  riding  through 
the  blue-gum  forests,  I  had  galloped  about 
twenty  miles  from  the  home  station;  dismount- 
ing from  the  horse,  I  sat  down  to  rest  and 
take  a  lunch.  A  large  flock  of  cockatoos,  those 
beautiful  white  parrots  with  yellow  crests,  came 
circling  around  and  lit  in  the  trees  overhead. 
I  was  watching  the  curious  manceuvers  of 
these  birds  as  they  were  chattering  and  hop- 
ping about  among  the  limbs,  when  they  stopped 
suddenly  as  if  alarmed.  Something  was  evi- 
dently approaching  of  which  they  were  in 
dread.  They  set  up  an  awful  scream,  and 
with  a  tremendous  flutter  spread  their  white 
wings  and  sailed  away.  Just  at  this  moment 
a  large  black  collie  dog  came  bounding  out 
of  the  bushes  and  suddenly  stopped  in  front 
of  me.  For  a  moment  I  was  startled.  The 
dog  paused  and  eyed  me  keenly,  then  coming 


slowly  up  walked  round  me,  and  at  last  ap- 
proached and  licked  my  hand,  which  I  had 
held  out  to  him.  In  a  moment  more  he  bounded 
away,  leaving  me  astonished  at  his  strange 
conduct.  I  had  never  seen  a  dog  act  in  so 
singular  a  manner,  and  was  wondering  what  it 
could  mean,  when  a  sharp,  joyful  bark  warned 
me  that  he  was  returning ;  and,  sure  enough, 
he  had  come  back  wagging  his  tail  and  fol- 
lowed by  a  tall,  gaunt  figure  of  a  man  thinly 
clad,  barefooted,  and  with  a  wide-brimmed, 
frayed  straw  hat  on  his  head.  He  was  about 
fifty  years  of  age,  and  as  he  removed  his  hat 
and  made  me  a  well-mannered,  dignified  bow, 
I  could  see  that,  though  he  was  undoubtedly 
a  shepherd,  he  had  once  been  a  gentleman 
who  had  seen  better  days.  As  he  stood  bare- 
headed before  me  the  wind  blew  his  long, 
thin,  sandy  hair  about  his  brow,  and  he  re- 
garded me  with  a  strange,  far-off  look  in  his 
eyes,  as  if  I  had  been  miles  away.  I  met  sev- 
eral shepherds  after  this,  and  noticed  that  same 
strained  expression.  They  live  so  much  alone, 
sometimes  being  three  and  four  months  with- 
out seeing  a  human  being,  that  they  form  this 
habit  by  looking  over  the  plains,  hoping  that 
they  may  catch  sight  of  some  one  to  relieve 
the  awful  monotony  of  their  lonely  lives. 
"  Thank  God  !  God  bless  you,  sir !  I  hope  you 
are  quite  well,"  he  said.  There  was  not  much 
expression  in  the  man's  face.  I  almost  fancied 
that  he  looked  like  a  sheep,  but  there  was 
enough  to  prove  that  he  was  glad  to  see  me ; 
and  would  have  been  to  see  any  one  else,  for 
the  matter  of  that.  "  Sit  down,  my  friend,  and 
have  some  lunch  with  me,"  said  I.  "  Thank 
you,  I  will,"  said  he.  "  Well,  Jack,  you  are 
right,  quite  right;  you  always  are,  old  boy." 
This  was  said  to  the  dog,  who  never  once  took 
his  eye  off  his  master,  but  stood  in  front  of  him 
wagging  his  affectionate  tail,  that  expressed 
as  much  love  for  the  poor,  tattered,  wasted 
shepherd  as  it  could  have  done  had  he  been 
an  emperor  in  purple  robes.  "  Yes,  always 
right  and  true,  eh,  old  boy  ? "  The  dog 
answered  by  licking  the  shepherd's  hand  and 
rubbing  his  head  against  his  master's  legs. 

"  I  knew  you  were  here,"  said  he.  "  You 
knew  I  was  here  ?  How  could  you  tell  that  ? 
What  do  you  mean?  "  " Oh,  when  I  say  that  I 
mean  that  I  knew  it  was  a  friend,  or  at  least  not 
an  enemy ;  and  Jack  knew,  if  I  did  n't.  About 
an  hour  ago,  the  dog  began  to  get  uneasy.  He 
ran  about  sniffing  the  air  and  giving  little 
short  barks ;  then  all  of  a  sudden  he  broke  away 
and  left  me.  I  thought  he  was  on  the  lookout 
for  something  strange,  so  I  just  sat  down  among 
the  sheep  and  waited  for  him.  Presently  he 
came  back  quite  pleased  at  what  he  had  dis- 
covered ;  then  he  gave  some  more  of  those 
little  short  barks  and  ran  oft"  towards  you  and 


140 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


back  again ;  then  wagged  his  tail  impatiently. 
He  could  not  have  spoken  plainer  if  he  had 
been  a  Christian.  The  loving  beast  knows  the 
lonely  life  I  lead,  and  how  I  yearn  sometimes 
for  a  human  face  to  look  at.  That  's  why  he 
went  on  so  —  God  bless  him !  It  '11  be  a  shame 
for  us  to  live  in  the  other  world  if  Jack  don't 
go  there.  Look  at  him  now ;  can't  you  see  in 
his  face  that  he  knows  that  I  have  been  talk- 
ing about  him  ?  —  and  every  word  I  've  said, 
for  the  matter  of  that,  I  believe."  And,  sure 
enough,  the  look  in  the  dog's  face  was  almost 
human. 

The  man  now  sat  down  quietly  beside  me, 
and  ate  sparingly  and  rather  mechanically  of 
the  lunch,  always  sharing  his  morsel  with  Jack. 
I  took  out  a  flask  of  whisky,  and,  pouring  out 
some  of  it  into  a  cup,  offered  my  guest  a  drink. 
His  eyes  beamed  with  a  longing  look  as  he 
saw  the  liquor,  and,  turning  on  me  a  strange, 
frightened  look,  said :  "  No,  none  of  that  for 
me.  Put  it  away,  please ;  I  don't  like  the  sight 
of  it."  It  now  dawned  upon  me  that  my  friend 
was  a  retired  drunkard,  who  had  come  out  to 
this  lonely  part  of  the  world  to  avoid  tempta- 
tion. I  had  heard  that  there  were  many  such 
in  Australia,  and  that  the  shepherd's  life  was 
chosen  as  being  the  most  isolated  one  that 
could  be  found.  I  rose  to  take  my  departure, 
when  he  put  his  hand  gently  on  my  arm,  and 
with  an  appealing  look  said  :  "  You  won't  go 
back  to-night,  will  you  ?  It  's  too  late.  I  wish 
you  'd  stay  in  my  hut  to-night,  it  's  so  long 
since  I  've  seen  a  human  face  —  over  three 
months  now.  A  man  only  comes  once  in  a 
great  while  to  bring  provisions,  and  that  's  all 
we  see  of  humanity  from  one  year's  end  to 
another.  Do  stay  to-night,  won't  you  ?  "  "I  'd 
like  to  oblige  you,"  I  replied,  "  but  they  '11  be 
uneasy  about  me  at  the  home  station.  I  must 
be  twenty  miles  from  there  now,  and  it  will  be 
long  after  dark  before  I  get  back,  even  at  a 
smart  gallop."  "  But  are  you  sure  you  know 
the  way  ? — you  might  get  lost,"  said  he.  "  Oh, 
no;  I  've  only  to  keep  on  the  banks  of  the  Mur- 
ray and  I  'm  all  right." 

The  poor  fellow  hung  his  head,  looking  the 
picture  of  despair.  "  Well,"  said  I,  "  I  '11  stay." 
He  brightened  up  at  this.  "  How  far  is  your 
hut  from  here  ?  "  I  asked.  "  Not  a  mile,  I 
assure  you."  So  he  started  off  at  a  good  pace, 
fearing  I  might  change  my  mind,  I  suppose. 
The  dog  bounded  ahead,  barking  away,  and 
I  followed  on  horseback.  We  soon  came  upon 
his  charge  —  a  large  flock  of  sheep.  As  they 
heard  the  dog's  bark  the  stupid  creatures 
pricked  up  their  ears  and  looked  surprised, 
just  as  if  they  had  never  heard  it  before ;  then 
they  took  to  their  heels  and  galloped  off,  with 
the  dog  in  full  pursuit,  running  first  in  front, 
and  then  at  the  side,  as  some  stray  wether 


showed  a  disposition  to  rebel,  then  circling 
round  and  round  till  he  got  the  fold  just  where 
he  wanted  them.  He  now  went  in  and  out 
among  the  sheep  as  though  giving  orders  that 
they  were  to  put  up  for  the  night.  They 
seemed  quite  to  understand  him,  so  they  quietly 
lay  down  in  little  family  groups.  By  this  time 
we  had  reached  the  hut,  and  the  dog  came  up 
wagging  his  tail,  as  much  as  to  say,  "  It  's  all 
right;  there  's  none  of  them  missing."  The 
hut  was  built  of  mud,  sticks,  and  straw,  with 
the  hard  earth  for  a  floor.  I  hobbled  my  horse 
so  that  he  might  browse  about  in  safety,  the 
shepherd  prepared  a  cup  of  tea, —  the  usual 
beverage  of  the  bush, —  and  the  dog,  not  a  whit 
tired,  stood  bolt  upright  overlooking  his  dis- 
tant charge  with  the  air  of  a  general  reviewing 
his  army. 

The  sun  had  gone  down  behind  the  low 
horizon  with  the  same  effect  that  it  does  at 
sea,  and  as  we  sat  outside  upon  a  couple  of 
rude  blocks  of  wood,  drinking  our  refreshing 
tea,  the  moon  rose  up  shedding  its  soft  light 
over  this  mysterious  scene ;  there  was  no  sound 
but  the  distant  tinkle  of  a  sheep-bell  and  the 
crackling  of  the  little  fire  that  was  boiling  the  tea. 
The  smoke  went  straight  and  silently  up  into 
the  still  air;  the  loneliness  was  bad  enough  with 
two  men  —  what  must  it  have  been  with  one  ! 

I  felt  there  was  something  more  in  my  pro- 
found acquaintance  than  I  had  yet  learned,  so 
I  lighted  my  pipe  and  began  to  draw  him  out.  It 
is  curious  that  a  man  being  alone  among  dumb 
creatures  loses  after  a  time  something  of  his 
human  expression  and  acquires  that  of  his  dumb 
companions,  and  that  a  dog  under  the  same 
circumstances  retains  his  individuality.  Here 
was  a  man  who,  to  judge  from  his  manner  and 
speech,  must  have  been  tenderly  reared  and 
highly  educated,  and  one  too  who  had  prac- 
ticed the  busy  calling  of  the  law ;  yet  in  a 
few  years  of  isolation  the  bright  mind  had 
become  faded,  and  the  human  look  of  the  face 
changed  almost  to  the  blank  expression  of  a 
sheep,  while  a  dog  under  the  same  circum- 
stances had  retained  his  perfect  individuality. 
Jack's  eyes  sparkled  like  diamonds.  His  charac- 
ter was  marked  by  intelligence,  faithfulness,  and 
affection.  He  would  lie  with  his  head  between 
his  paws,  and  his  sharp  nose  flat  on  the  ground, 
turning  up  the  whites  of  his  eyes  to  watch  us 
as  we  talked.  Now  and  again  he  would  heave 
a  deep  sigh  of  satisfaction,  as  much  as  to  say, 
"The  old  man  is  all  right  to-night;  he's  got 
some  one  that  can  talk  to  him." 

I  questioned  the  shepherd  about  his  past  life. 
It  seems  he  had  been  educated  at  Eton ;  then 
became  a  fast  youth  in  London,  where  he 
studied  for  the  law,  and  in  a  short  time  rose  to 
be  a  successful  barrister.  He  had  married  early, 
and  had  one  child,  a  daughter,  born  to  him.  Af- 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


141 


ter  two  years  of  wedded  life  he  lost  his  wife 
and  child.  Despairingly  he  took  to  drink,  and, 
being  weak  and  desperate,  went  down  hill  and 
lost  his  position;  that  once  lost  in  London  is  sel- 
dom regained.  Not  so  in  America.  Here,  when 
a  man  falls,  if  he  has  the  strength  to  brace  up 
again  he  goes  to  the  West,  and  rubbing  up 
against  a  new  society  absorbs  fresh  magnet- 
ism and  recuperates  at  once :  but  London  is 
compact;  the  Englishman  hates  to  leave  his 
home;  his  failings  are  known,  and  if  he  re- 
mains they  are  flung  in  his  face.  There  is  no 
escape  for  him;  and,  as  his  friends  shun  him,  he 
falls  deeper  into  disgrace.  This  was  the  trouble 
that  had  beset  the  shepherd,  who,  having  a 
sensitive  and  perhaps  weak  mind,  succumbed 
to  the  pressure  that  surrounded  him.  And  so 
after  a  time,  with  a  broken  spirit,  he  left  Eng- 
land and  came  to  the  colonies.  He  practiced 
law  in  Melbourne  for  some  time  successfully, 
but  the  old  habit  came  back  upon  him,  and,  as 
he  could  not  resist  temptation,  he  buried  him- 
self on  this  station.  This  was  the  tale  he  told 
me,  and  there  could  be  no  doubt  of  its  truth. 
After  he  had  finished  he  turned  his  strange, 
far-off  look  on  me  again,  and  said,  "  Are  you 
superstitious  ?  " 

"Well,  I  think  I  am  a  little.  Most  people 
are,  if  they  would  own  it,"  said  I.  "  I  did  n't 
use  to  be,"  he  said  with  a  sigh  ;  "  but  since  I  Ve 
lived  here  I  seem  to  have  become  so,  and  it 's 
all  Jack's  fault."  The  dog,  not  looking  up,  beat 
his  tail  on  the  ground  gently,  as  if  to  say,  "  Yes, 
blame  it  all  on  me;  it 's  all  my  fault." 

"  I  have  never  seen  anything  ghostly  or  mys- 
terious myself,  but  I  think  Jack  does  some- 
times. When  we  're  alone  —  and  God  knows 
that 's  often  enough  —  he  '11  start  up  and  look 
around  slowly  as  if  his  eyes  were  following 
something  in  the  hut;  at  these  times  he  will 
give  a  low,  strange  kind  of  moan,  and,  putting 
his  tail  between  his  legs,  seem  to  be  frightened, 
peering  up  into  my  face  with  an  inquiring 
stare,  as  if  he  said,  '  Don't  you  see  it,  too  ?  ' " 
The  dog  during  this  recital  kept  slowly  beat- 
ing time  with  his  tail,  as  if  he  were  indorsing 
every  word  his  master  said.  "  After  noticing 
this  with  the  dog,"  said  the  shepherd,  "  I  called 
to  mind  the  strange  look  I  used  to  see  in  the 
beautiful  face  of  my  baby  when  she  was  only 
six  months  old.  The  little  thing  would  some- 
times stare  at  vacancy,  and  then  smile  sweetly 
and  turn  its  head  around  as  if  it  were  follow- 
ing something — just  as  that  dog  does.  What 's 
your  opinion  of  this  sort  of  thing  ?  Do  you 
think  the  spirits  of  those  we  loved  in  life  can 
return  and  stand  beside  us  ?  " 

I  told  him  that  his  question  was  a  difficult 
one  to  answer;  that  different  people  held  dif- 
ferent opinions  on  these  mysterious  matters, 
and  the  chances  were  that  nobody  had  hit  it 


quite  right  yet.  "  Well,"  said  he,  "  if  they  can 
come,  I  know  who  it  is  that  the  dog  sees  when 
we  're  alone." 

It  was  now  getting  late,  and  the  shepherd 
insisted  on  my  taking  his  couch,  an  old  can- 
vas cot  with  a  plain  gray  blanket  spread  upon 
it ;  so,  as  I  was  quite  tired,  I  accepted  the  offer, 
and  lay  down  for  a  night's  rest.  My  com- 
panion stretched  his  tall  figure  on  the  grass 
outside.  The  dry  climate  of  Australia  admits 
of  this ;  there  is  no  danger  in  sleeping  on  the 
ground  ;  the  chances  are  there  would  not  be 
a  drop  of  dew  during  the  night,  and  that  the 
grass  in  the  morning  would  be  as  dry  as  hay. 
Jack  lay  down  between  us,  and  seemed,  by  one 
or  two  satisfactory  sighs  that  escaped  him,  to  be 
quite  happy. 

I  was  awake  for  some  time,  and  happening 
to  look  towards  my  new  acquaintance,  found 
that  he  was  lying  upon  his  back  with  the  moon 
shining  full  upon  his  pale  face.  I  had  heard 
that  it  was  dangerous  in  this  climate  to  sleep 
in  the  moonlight.  People  had  been  known  to 
go  mad,  or  to  have  been  struck  with  paralysis, 
for  committing  this  indiscretion.  I  called  to 
him  to  move  into  the  shadow,  but  he  did  not 
heed  me ;  so,  thinking  he  had  dozed  off,  I  let 
him  alone. 

The  strangeness  of  the  scene,  together  with 
the  strong  tea,  seemed  to  banish  sleep  from 
me,  and  I  must  have  been  there  an  hour  with 
my  eyes  closed,  but  quite  awake,  when  pres- 
ently I  heard  something  stirring,  and,  opening 
my  eyes,  saw  the  shepherd  sitting  up  in  the 
doorway  with  his  head  resting  in  his  hands. 
After  a  time  he  arose  and  went  out  into  the 
night  air.  He  seemed  uneasy,  and  began 
restlessly  to  pace  up  and  down  in  front  of  the 
hut.  The  dog  remained  still,  but  I  felt  that 
he  was  awake  and  watching  his  master,  as  he 
walked  nervously  backward  and  forward  in  the 
moonlight.  Presently  the  shepherd  stopped  in 
front  of  the  hut,  and  came,  with  a  hesitating 
and  irresolute  step,  towards  the  door.  He  en- 
tered slowly,  and,  stooping  down  upon  his 
hands  and  knees,  crawled  stealthily  to  the 
chair  on  which  my  coat  was  hanging ;  he  put 
his  hand  in  the  breast  pocket  and  drew  forth 
the  flask  of  liquor.  And  now  he  seemed  bewil- 
dered, as  if  some  strange  emotion  had  seized 
upon  him,  and  then  fell  upon  his  knees  as  if  in 
prayer.  Suddenly  he  seemed  to  rouse  himself, 
and,  instead  of  drinking  the  liquor,  placed  the 
flask  untouched  back  in  the  pocket  of  the 
coat ;  then  stretching  himself  on  the  floor,  with 
an  apparent  air  of  comfort  and  satisfaction, 
went  off  to  sleep.  The  whole  proceeding  so 
haunted  me  that  it  was  broad  daylight  be- 
fore I  closed  my  eyes.  When  I  awoke,  the 
sun  was  high  in  the  heavens.  It  must  have 
been  midday.    My  host  had  prepared  break- 


142 


THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


fast  —  some  bread  freshly  baked,  tea,  and  salt 
beef.  He  seemed  quite  calm,  and  had  lost  the 
nervous,  wearied  look  that  was  noticeable  the 
evening  before.  After  our  meal,  he  spoke 
freely  of  the  night's  proceedings  to  me.  I  told 
him  I  had  seen  all  that  had  taken  place.  "  I 
thought  perhaps  it  might  be  so,"  said  he.  "  The 
old  craving  came  upon  me  again,  so  strong 
too,  but  if  ever  I  prayed  for  strength  it  was 
then.  Well,  at  that  moment  there  was  a 
hand  laid  on  my  head ;  a  calmness  came  over 
me  that  I  had  not  felt  for  years ;  and  when  I 
returned  the  flask  to  your  pocket  I  knew  then, 
as  I  know  now,  that  another  drop  of  liquor 
will  never  pass  my  lips ;  and,  as  God  is  my  judge, 
I  believe  it  was  the  angel  hand  of  my  dead 
wife  that  rested  on  my  feverish  head.  It 's  all 
over  now,  thank  Heaven,  and  I  can  leave  this 
lonely  place  and  return  to  the  world  again  with 
safety." 

I  started  to  ride  for  the  home  station;  the 
shepherd  walked  some  distance  by  the  side 
of  my  horse,  and  at  last  we  shook  hands  and 
parted.  I  looked  back  after  a  time,  and  in 
the  distance  saw  his  tall  figure  against  the 
sky,  waving  his  old  straw  hat  to  me,  while 
the  faithful  dog  by  his  side  was  looking  up 
into  his  face  and  wagging  that  expressive  tail. 

AN    AUSTRALIAN    TRAGEDY. 

I  traveled  still  farther  into  the  interior — in 
fact,  quite  far  enough  for  safety ;  for  not  over 
one  hundred  miles  from  where  I  now  stopped 
there  had  been  living  in  a  stronghold  in  the 
mountains  a  band  of  desperate  men,  and 
though  lately  their  career  had  been  checked, 
I  deemed  it  prudent  to  suppress  any  desire 
that  I  had  for  further  explorations. 

The  bushranger  of  Australia  is  an  offshoot 
of  the  highwayman  of  England.  Convicts  had 
been  sent  from  the  old  country  for  this  unlaw- 
ful practice,  and  after  finishing  out  their  time, 
or  being  pardoned  for  good  conduct,  remained 
in  the  colonies,  instead  of  returning  to  their 
native  land.  Gold  had  been  discovered ;  the 
country  was  growing  rich,  and  offered  a  fine 
field  for  the  "terror  of  the  road."  In  all  new 
and  thriving  countries  there  is  a  class  of  lazy, 
cunning,  and  desperate  men  who  prey  upon 
society,  looking  upon  honesty  as  weakness, 
and  society,  by  way  of  punishing  these  crimi- 
nals, wastes  a  good  deal  of  sympathy  and  sen- 
timentality upon  them.  The  villains  know  this, 
and  enjoy  the  joke.  Ladies,  I  regret  to  say, 
are  especially  attached  to  this  kind  of  ani- 
mal. The  Claude  Duvals,  Jack  Sheppards, 
Lafittes,  and  Massaronies  of  the  past  were 
just  such  cunning  sneaks.  Their  praises  have 
been  versed,  and  we  are  made  to  believe  that 
they  are  a  race  of  persecuted  heroes.    Byron 


well  describes  one  of  these  miserable  wretches 
as  sitting  in  a  graceful  attitude  on  the  quarter- 
deck, with  a  thoughtful  brow  and  a  noble  air, 
as  if  he  were  turning  over  in  his  mind  how  he 
could  best  benefit  mankind.  Our  own  Cooper 
describes  the  "  noble  red  man  "  as  only  delay- 
ing his  departure  to  the  "happy  hunting- 
grounds  "  in  order  that  he  may  unburden  him- 
self of  a  large  stock  of  ready-made  gratitude 
which  he  constantly  keeps  on  hand;  whereas 
it  is  well  known  that  no  Indian  could  possibly 
be  happy  in  any  hunting-ground  unless  it  was 
on  the  reservation  of  some  other  tribe.  I  think 
we  rather  suspect  the  sincerity  of  the  poets  who 
dignify  these  rascals. 

Just  such  a  worthy  as  one  of  the  pirates  al- 
luded to  had  been  occupying  the  attention  of 
Australia  the  year  before  I  arrived.  The  ladies 
vowed  that  Morgan,  the  gentleman's  name, 
had  the  most  manly  form  that  ever  was  seen, 
surmounted  by  a  perfectly  classic  head :  the 
latter  certainly  ought  to  have  been  very  fine, 
for  the  Government  had  offered  a  thousand 
pounds  for  it,  but  up  to  the  present  time  Mr. 
Morgan  had  not  presented  it  for  sale.  He  evi- 
dently looked  upon  it  as  a  cash  article  at  any 
time,  and  determined  that,  as  it  was  the  only 
one  he  possessed,  he  would  not  force  it  on  the 
market.  "  If  they  want  it,"  said  Morgan  play- 
fully, "  they  must  call  for  it."  It  seems  that 
they  had  called  for  it  on  several  occasions, 
but  always  failed  to  carry  it  away  with  them, 
for  the  bushranger  was  a  wary  fellow  and  had 
a  head  able  to  look  after  itself. 

The  station  where  I  was  now  staying  had 
been,  some  time  back,  the  scene  of  this  fel- 
low's exploits.  He  and  his  gang  had  "  stuck 
up"  the  place.  One  brave  lad  resisted,  and 
was  killed  by  Morgan.  The  sister  of  this  un- 
fortunate boy  was  concealed  in  the  house,  and 
witnessed  from  her  hiding-place  the  cruel  mur- 
der of  her  brother.  The  scene  preyed  upon  the 
poor  girl's  mind,  and  the  spirit  of  revenge  took 
possession  of  her.  Morgan,  being  quite  a  star 
in  the  bushranging  firmament,  paid  annual 
visits  to  the  profitable  stations,  and,  hearing 
that  there  was  a  fine  race-horse  on  the  place, 
thought  he  would  call  again  and  make  an  ex- 
change for  the  worn-out  beast  he  was  then 
riding.  After  paralyzing  the  small  community 
he  took  the  horse,  and  just  before  his  intended 
departure  the  girl  purposely  threw  herself  in 
his  way,  offering  to  prepare  a  meal  for  him. 
Being  good-looking,  she  attracted  his  atten- 
tion, and  with  a  full  and  aching  heart  the  half- 
crazed  creature  made  an  assignation  with  him 
for  that  night,  to  be  held  at  a  secluded  spot 
some  distance  from  the  house.  The  matter 
settled,  the  bushranger  rode  away  to  await  the 
appointed  hour.  The  desperate  girl  mounted 
a  fleet  horse  and  rode  twelve  miles  to  police 


THE  A  UTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  JOSEPH  JEFFERSON. 


i43 


quarters,  giving  the  alarm,  and  telling  what  she 
had  planned.  An  ambush  was  prepared  that 
night,  and  as  the  girl  approached  the  point 
of  meeting  she  waved  her  handkerchief  for 
Morgan  to  appear.  The  stealthy  murderer  ap- 
proached, and  at  the  next  wave  of  the  hand- 
kerchief fell  dead,  riddled  with  bullets. 

A  large  sum  of  money  was  subscribed  by 
the  wealthy  people  of  the  colony  and  given 
to  the  girl,  besides  half  of  the  reward,  which 
was  divided  between  her  and  the  captain  of 
police ;  but  the  mental  strain  told  upon  her, 
and  she  never  recovered  from  the  shock. 


A    TERRIBLE    AUDIENCE. 

Having  had  a  long  rest  from  acting,  I  re- 
turned to  Melbourne  to  play  a  short  engage- 
ment with  my  former  partner  at  the  Haymar- 
ket,  and  then  sailed  for  Van  Diemen's  Land, 
now  called  Tasmania.  This  lovely  island  had 
formerly  been  a  convict  station,  where  life- 
sentenced  prisoners  from  England  had  been 
sent.  There  was  at  the  time  I  speak  of,  and 
is  now,  a  most  refined  society  in  Tasmania, 
though  among  the  lower  classes  there  was  a 
strong  flavor  of  the  convict  element.  I  acted 
"  The  Ticket-of- Leave  Man  "  for  the  first  time 
in  Hobart  Town,  and  there  was  much  excite- 
ment in  the  city  when  the  play  was  announced. 
At  least  one  hundred  ticket-of-leave  men  were 
in  the  pit  on  the  first  night  of  its  production. 
Before  the  curtain  rose,  I  looked  through  it 
at  this  terrible  audience ;  the  faces  in  the  pit 
were  a  study.  Men  with  low  foreheads  and 
small,  peering,  ferret-looking  eyes,  some  with 
flat  noses,  and  square,  cruel  jaws,  and  sinister 
expressions, —  leering,  low,  and  cunning, —  all 
wearing  a  sullen,  dogged  look,  as  though  they 
would  tear  the  benches  from  the  pit  and  gut 
the  theater  of  its  scenery  if  one  of  their  kind 
was  held  up  to  public  scorn  upon  the  stage. 
This  shows  the  power  of  the  drama.  An  author 
might  write  an  article  abusing  them,  or  an 
artist  paint  a  picture  showing  up  the  hide- 
ous deformity  of  their  features  —  all  this  they 
could  bear  and  even  laugh  at;    but  put  one 


of  their  ilk  upon  the  stage  in  a  human  form, 
surrounded  by  the  sympathetic  story  of  a  play, 
and  they  would  no  more  submit  to  an  ill 
usage  of  him  than  they  would  to  a  personal 
attack  upon  themselves. 

The  first  act  of  the  play  progressed  with 
but  little  excitement.  These  men  seemed  to 
enjoy  the  humorous  and  pathetic  side  of  the 
story  with  great  relish ;  but  when  I  came  upon 
the  stage  in  the  second  act,  revealing  the  ema- 
ciated features  of  a  returned  convict,  with 
sunken  eyes  and  a  closely  shaved  head,  there 
was  a  painful  stillness  in  the  house.  The  whole 
pit  seemed  to  lean  forward  and  strain  their 
eager  eyes  upon  the  scene ;  and  as  Bob  Brierly 
revealed  to  his  sweetheart  the  "  secrets  of  the 
prison  house,"  there  were  little  murmurs  of  rec- 
ognition and  shakings  of  the  head,  as  though 
they  fully  recognized  the  local  allusions  that 
they  so  well  remembered ;  deep-drawn  sighs 
for  the  sufferings  that  Bob  had  gone  through, 
and  little  smothered  laughs  at  some  of  the  old, 
well-remembered  inconveniences  of  prison  life ; 
but  then,  Bob  was  a  hero,  and  their  sympathies 
were  caught  by  the  nobleness  of  his  char- 
acter and  his  innocence  of  crime,  as  though 
each  one  of  these  villains  recognized  how 
persecuted  he  and  Bob  had  been. 

As  the  play  progressed,  their  enthusiasm 
increased.  Whenever  Bob  was  hounded  by  a 
detective  or  ill  treated  by  the  old  Jew,  they 
would  howl  their  indignation  at  the  actors;  and 
when  he  came  out  unscathed  at  the  end  of 
the  play,  a  monument  of  persecuted  inno- 
cence, they  cheered  to  the  very  echo.  This 
performance  rendered  me  extremely  popular 
with  some  of  the  old  "lags  "  of  Hobart  Town ; 
and  I  was  often  accosted  on  the  street  by 
these  worthies  and  told  some  touching  tale 
of  their  early  persecutions.  In  fact  they  quite 
looked  on  me  as  an  old  "  pal."  These  cour- 
tesies were  very  flattering,  but  the  inconven- 
ience that  I  was  caused  by  being  poked  in 
the  ribs  and  winked  at  now  and  then,  as 
much  as  to  say,  "  All  right,  old  boy,  we  know, 
—  you  Ve  been  there,"  rendered  my  favorit- 
ism among  these  fellows  rather  irksome. 


(To  be  continued.) 


Joseph  Jefferson. 


9*£MMtMS^ 


ot 


VALOR    AND    SKILL    IN    THE    CIVIL  WAR. 


I. WAS    EITHER    THE    BETTER    SOLDIER? 

HERE  appears  to  have  been 
gathered,  by  many  of  the 
readers  of  the  war  litera- 
ture of  the  day,  a  distinctly 
erroneous  impression  to 
the  effect  that  the  South 
fought  better  than  the 
North  ;  or,  to  put  it  in  an- 
other way,  that  the  Southerner  was  the  better 
soldier.  Those  who  have  well  studied  the  sub- 
ject, or  who  intelligently  served  through  the 
war,  do  not  share  this  opinion;  but  there  is, 
in  the  events  of  the  war,  superficially  consid- 
ered, a  certain  basis  for  the  assumption.  This 
has,  however,  its  very  clear  limitations. 

The  South  had  a  certain  task  to  accomplish, 
and  certain  means  to  accomplish  it  with.  The 
North  had  its  larger  task,  and  larger  means. 
If  we  will  carefully  consider  what  these  respect- 
ive tasks  were,  and  the  manner  of  their  work- 
ing out,  it  will  appear  as  a  result  that  the 
North  performed  its  gigantic  undertaking  not 
only  in  a  creditable  and  businesslike  manner, 
but  in  a  manner  which  will  stand  the  test  of 
historical  comparison. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  state  the  task  of  the 
South.  It  was  simply  to  conquer  its  indepen- 
dence. No  student  of  the  war,  no  old  soldier, 
no  American,  but  harbors  the  warmest  admira- 
tion for  what  the  Southerner  did.  He  began 
the  war  with  a  vow  to  win  or  to  die  in  the  last 
ditch.  He  did  not  win,  but  he  did  actually  do 
the  other  thing.  He  gave  up  the  struggle  be- 
cause he  had  practically  used  up  his  last  man 
and  fired  his  last  cartridge.  Nor  he  nor  any 
other  could  do  more. 

What  was  the  task  of  the  North  ?  In  1 86 1 
the  population  of  the  South  was  five  and  a 
half  millions,  including  slaves.  As  some  part 
of  the  population  had,  of  necessity,  to  raise 
breadstuff's,  cotton,  and  beef,  and  the  slaves 
did  this  work,  so  that  nearly  all  the  whites 
could  bear  arms,  the  blacks  can  fairly  be 
counted  as  a  part  of  the  population,  so  far  as 
this  question  is  concerned.  The  suggestion  of 
a  constant  danger  of  servile  insurrection  is  best 
answered  by  the  fact  that  there  was  no  such 
insurrection,  and  that  the  South  was  never 
called  on  to  deplete  the  ranks  at  the  front  to 
forestall  one.  The  total  population  of  five 
and  a  half  millions  may  thus,  with  perfect 
fairness,  be  taken  as  a  factor  in  the  proposi- 
tion.   The  population  of  the  North  was  un- 


der twenty  millions,  that  is,  but  three  and  a 
half  times  as  great.  From  this  had  to  be  drawn 
all  the  men  and  material  with  which  to  sup- 
press this  greatest  of  the  rebellions  of  history. 

If  we  will  turn  back  to  our  own  Revolution, 
we  shall  find  that  the  population  of  the  United 
Kingdom  alone  was  five  times  as  great  as  that 
of  the  colonies.  And  yet,  Great  Britain  was  un- 
able, after  seven  years  of  stanch  effort,  to  re- 
duce these  revolted  colonies  to  obedience.  If 
we  will  go  back  a  half  generation  further,  to 
old  Frederick,  we  shall  find  that  in  the  Seven 
Years'  War  the  population  of  the  allies  was 
twenty  times  as  great  as  that  of  Prussia.  And 
yet  the  allies  failed,  in  those  seven  years,  to 
wrest  Silesia  from  the  iron  grip  of  this  "  Last 
of  the  Kings."  Parallel  cases  might  be  multi- 
plied, but  the  above  suffices  to  illustrate  the 
query  advanced  and  its  answer. 

If  a  hundred  years  ago  Great  Britain,  with 
more  than  five  times  their  population,  failed 
in  seven  campaigns  to  subject  the  colonies ;  if 
Austria,  Russia,  France,  Sweden,  and  the  Im- 
perial forces  combined  were  unable,  in  seven 
campaigns,  to  overwhelm  that  grim  old  Bran- 
denburg monarch,  surely  we  may  feel  that  our 
work  was  not  ill  done,  if  in  five  campaigns, 
with  a  population  of  but  three  and  a  half  to 
one,  we  succeeded  in  crushing  out  the  rebel- 
lion of  1 86 1. 

And  though  Frederick,  while  equally  bril- 
liant in  victory,  was  assuredly  greater  than  any 
modern  captain  in  reverse,  it  might,  perhaps, 
be  claimed  that,  in  Virginia,  Lee  was  all  but 
as  much  superior  to  most  of  the  generals  op- 
posed to  him  as  the  Prussian  king  to  Prince 
Karl,  Field- Marshals  Browne  and  Daun,  and 
the  others  with  whom  he  had  to  do.  Such  su- 
periority was  not  as  marked  in  the  West  as  in 
the  East;  but  the  average  general  officer  of 
the  South  won  his  stars  by  service  and  not  by 
political  scheming,  and  he  certainly  largely 
outranked  the  average  general  of  the  North. 
At  all  events  the  Southern  management  of 
military  affairs  was  sufficiently  better  than  ours 
to  warrant  the  above  parallelism  as  a  reason- 
ably fair  one. 

Another  point  is  noticeable.  Frederick 
rarely  had  in  the  field  more  than  one-quarter 
of  the  force  of  his  enemies;  but  on  the  battle- 
field, by  superior  strategy,  central  position,  in- 
terior lines,  and  nimble  legs,  he  usually  man- 
aged to  oppose  to  them  one-half  as  many  at  the 
point  of  actual  contact.  Owing  to  its  extraor- 
dinary exertions,  the  South  had  under  arms, 


Ml 


VALOR   AND   SKILL   IN   THE    CIVIL   WAR. 


i45 


until  the  last  third  of  the  war,  an  average  of 
about  three-quarters  of  the  force  of  the  North. 
And  we  shall  see  that  at  the  point  of  actual 
contact  the  forces  of  the  North  and  the  South 
were  not  far  from  equal  up  to  1864. 

TABLE   OF   NORTHERN   AND    SOUTHERN    FORCES 
UNDER   ARMS. 


Date. 

Federals. 

Confeds. 

Per  cent. 

Jan.  1,  1861 

l6,000 

Arming 

July  1,  1 861.  .    . 

.     186,000 

150,000 

.      80 

Jan.  1,  1862.  .  .  . 

•    576,000 

■     350>o°o     • 

.      60 

March  1,  1862.  . 

•    637,000 

500,000 

.      80 

Jan.  1,  1863 

9l8,000 

690,000 

•       78 

Jan.  1,  1864   .  .  . 

860.OOO 

400,000 

■     47 

Jan.  1,  1865    .  .  . 

•  959.00° 

250,000 

.     26 

March  31,  1865. 

.  980,000 

175,000     . 

.     18 

May  I,  1865.  .  . 

1,000,000 

none 

Moreover,  out  of  this  none  too  great  mar- 
gin the  North  was  compelled,  partly  by  the 
nature  of  its  task,  and  partly  in  consequence 
of  its  frequently  absurd  political  strategy,  to 
keep  a  much  larger  number  than  the  South  on 
detached  service.  Compared,  then,  with  what 
other  nations  have  accomplished,  it  may  be 
claimed  that  the  statistics  of  our  war  abun- 
dantly demonstrate  that  the  North  did  the 
business  of  suppressing  the  Rebellion  in  a 
workmanlike  and  respectable,  not  to  say  hand- 
some manner,  leaving,  under  the  circum- 
stances, no  great  room  for  adverse  criticism. 
In  yielding  our  sincerest  admiration  to  the 
splendid  efforts  of  the  South  we  must  not  lose 
sight  of  the  noble  work  of  the  North,  nor  of  the 
conditions  under  which  it  was  accomplished. 

Again,  to  take  up  the  impression  prevailing 
that  the  Southerners  were  better  fighters  than 
the  Northerners.  This  is  also  disproved  by 
the  figures.  As  has  been  frequently  pointed 
out,  the  Southern  troops  throughout  the  war 
were  a  homogeneous  body.  The  Northern 
troops  were  never  so  much  so,  and  after  the 
first  two  years  were  largely  made  up  of  "  rag, 
tag,  and  bobtail."  The  Southerner  felt  that  he 
was  fighting  for  his  home  and  fireside.  This 
greatest  of  all  inspirations  we  lacked.  He  fought 
with  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  terrain, 
with  the  aid  of  every  farmer —  indeed,  of  every 
woman  —  as  a  spy.  He  was  more  in  earnest, 
as  a  rule,  as  will  be  every  soldier  whose  fields 
and  homestead  are  being  wasted  and  burned. 
Until  the  end,  there  was  in  the  South  never 
a  day  when  there  was  actual  danger  of  the 
war  being  stopped  by  political  opposition. 
How  was  it  in  the  North  ?  The  South  had 
only  the  North  to  fight.  The  North  had  the 
South,  and  the  most  unreasonable  part  of  its 
own  population  besides,  to  contend  with. 

I  think  it  will  be  generally  admitted,  even 
by  Southern  soldiers,  that  some  of  the  troops 
of  the  Army  of  the  Potomac  were  always  as 
good  as  any  equal  number  in  the  Army  of 

'  Vol.  XL.— 20. 


Northern  Virginia.  I  am  rather  inclined  to 
think  that,  estimating  arms,  rationing,  and  ma- 
terial, fifty  thousand  men  of  the  three  arms 
could  have  been  picked  out  of  the  Potomac 
army  superior  to  any  fifty  thousand  in  Lee's. 
It  is  certain  that  out  of  the  two  an  army  of 
one  hundred  thousand  men  could  have  been 
selected,  of  as  high  a  grade  in  every  charac- 
teristic as,  and  of  a  higher  grade  of  intelligence 
and  adaptability  than,  any  troops  that  ever  bore 
arms.  The  Army  of  the  Potomac  was  always 
weakened  by  the  admixture  of  poor  material, 
far  more  than  its  gallant  adversary.  If  the  old 
cadres  could  have  been  kept  full,  instead  of 
reinforcements  coming  in  the  shape  of  new 
regiments,  that  army,  at  two-thirds  its  average 
strength,  would  have  been  a  far  better  fighting 
machine.  Grant's  Virginia  campaign  illustrates 
this  fact.  I  have  no  disposition  to  discuss  the 
political  conditions  which  necessitated  our  sys- 
tem of  recruiting  or  the  management  of  the 
armies.  My  question  is  purely  a  military  one. 
But  how  many  of  us  there  were  who  for  months 
carried  about  empty  commissions  to  the  grades 
we  had  honestly  earned,  but  on  which  we 
could  not  be  mustered,  because  by  hard  fight- 
ing our  regiments  had  been  reduced  below  the 
prescribed  standard,  and  who  gazed,  heart- 
sick, at  the  brand-new  shoulder-straps  of  the 
men  who,  at  the  eleventh  hour,  had  helped 
to  raise  a  new  regiment.  Such  was  rarely  the 
case  in  the  Southern  armies. 

The  Army  of  the  Potomac  always  had  some 
of  the  best  corps  commanders.  Not  so  with 
its  chiefs.  Certainly  that  army  never  enjoyed 
the  advantage  of  having  the  same  commander 
and  practically  the  same  generals  of  corps,  di- 
visions, and  brigades,  duly  promoted,  year  in 
and  year  out,  as  did  the  Army  of  Northern 
Virginia.  All  these  facts  militated  as  much 
against  the  efficiency  of  the  Northern  as  they 
contributed  to  that  of  the  Southern  troops. 
And  yet,  barring  errors  in  command,  what 
stanch  work  the  much-tried  Potomac  army 
did  through  its  four  years'  life.  Whatever  is 
said  about  the  forces  in  Virginia  applies,  though 
modified  by  the  difference  in  conditions,  and 
often  by  the  difference  in  commanders,  equally 
to  the  Western  armies. 

It  is  no  doubt  true  that  the  Southern  ad- 
vantage of  defensive  war,  interior  lines,  know- 
ledge of  the  topography  of  the  theater  of 
operations,  and  superior  strategy,  enabled  them, 
from  smaller  means,  to  oppose  us  at  the  point 
of  actual  contact  with  equal  numbers.  But  it 
is  not  true  that,  at  the  point  of  contact,  man 
for  man,  the  Southerner  fought  better.  Look 
at  the  following  items  of  numbers  actually 
engaged.  The  figures  cover  the  years  1861, 
1 862,  and  1 863,  the  period  before  the  South  was 
quite  overmatched.   They  have  been  diligently 


146 


VALOR   AND    SKILL   IN  THE    CIVIL    WAR. 


compared  with  the  best  authorities,  and  are 
as  accurate  as  such  comparison  can  make 
them.  The  numbers  have  been  taken  without 
bias,  and  were  computed  in  each  case  without 
an  idea  of  what  their  tabulation  would  show. 
While  there  is  occasionally  exhibited  by  some 
critics  a  disposition  to  trim  statistics,  or  to  deny 
the  accuracy  of  even  the  Official  War  Records, 
it  is  thought  that  the  fairness  of  the  following 
items  will  be  generally  admitted.  Certainly  no 
reasonable  or  admissible  variation  will  alter 
the  conclusion  which  must  be  drawn  from 
them. 

July  2  1,  1861. —  At  Bull  Run,  Virginia,  McDowell  had 
28,000  men;  Beauregard,  25,000.  The  result  of  the 
day's  fighting  was  an  apparent  Union  success,  un- 
til, late  in  the  afternoon,  Johnston  came  in  on  the 
Union  flank  with  5000  fresh  troops,  when  victory 
changed  to  defeat. 

August  10,  1861. — At  Wilson's  Creek,  Missouri, 
Lyon  had  5000  men;  Price  and  McCulloch,  over 
10,000.  In  spite  of  these  great  odds  it  was  a 
hardly  won  Confederate  victory. 

October  21,  1861. —  At  Ball's  Bluff,  Virginia,  Baker 
had  1900  men;  Evans,  3200.  Though  the 
Federals  fought  bravely,  their  defeat  was  of  the 
worst. 

November  7,  1861. —  At  Belmont,  Missouri,  Grant 
had  3100  men.  The  enemy  at  first  had  but 
1000,  but  Polk  gradually  reenforced  this  body 
up  to  5000  or  6000.    Confederate  victory. 

January  19,  1862. —  At  Mill  Springs,  Kentucky, 
Thomas,  with  about  6000  men,  utterly  defeated 
Zollicoffer,  with  an  equal  number. 

February  14-16,  1862.  —  Grant  attacked  Fort  Don- 
elson,  Tennessee,  garrisoned  by  20,000  men,  with 
a  force  not  exceeding  15,000.  He  was  subse- 
quently reenforced  up  to  25,000  men.  Brilliant 
Union  success. 

March  6-8,  1862. —  At  Pea  Ridge,  Arkansas,  Curtis 
with  12,000  men  won  a  handsome  victory  over 
Price  and  Van  Dorn,  with  a  force  of  over  26,000, 
of  which  16,000  were  of  good  quality,  and  the 
rest  raw  levies  and  Indians. 

March  23,  1862. —  At  Winchester,  Virginia,  with 
7000  men,  Shields  won  a  victory  over  Jackson, 
who  had  about  4200  on  the  field. 

April 6-7,  1862.— AtShiloh,  Tennessee,  Grant,  with 
40,000  men,  was  driven  into  a  desperate  corner 
on  April  6,  by  A.  S.  Johnston  and  Beauregard, 
with  an  equal  number.  Next  day,  Buell,  with  his 
fresh  troops,  and  with  Grant  in  reserve,  probably 
50,000  men  in  all,  defeated  Beauregard,  whose 
30,000  men  still  left  fought,  nevertheless,  most 
handsomely  to  retain  their  advantage. 

May  5,  1862. —  At  Williamsburg,  Virginia,  Hooker, 
with  some  10,000  men,  bore  the  brunt  of  the 
fight,  against  Longstreet's  equal  force,  from  early 
dawn  till  late  in  the  afternoon,  when  Kearny  re- 
lieved him.  Later,  Hancock's  and  Peck's  brigades 
came  into  action.  In  all,  some  20,000  Union 
troops  engaged,  probably,  12,000  to  14,000 
Confederates.  Longstreet  held  his  ground  till 
night,  and  then  retreated. 

May  8,  1862. —  At  McDowell,  Jackson,  with  some 
8000  men,  badly  defeated  Milroy  and  Schenck, 
with  3500. 


May  25,  1862. —  At  Winchester,  Jackson,  with  some 
18,000  men,  defeated  Banks,  with  5000. 

May  27,  1862. — At  Hanover  Court  House,  Fitz 
John  Porter,  with  10,000  men,  won  a  handsome 
victory  over  Branch,  with  9000.  Branch's  forces 
at  the  beginning  of  the  fight  were  quite  scattered. 

May  31,  1862. —  At  Seven  Pines  (or  Fair  Oaks), 
Virginia,  Keyes  fought  alone,  but  unsuccessfully, 
against  great  odds  till  after  3  p.  m.,  when  Kearny 
came  up.  Then  Keyes  and  Kearny,  1 9,000  against 
39,000,  held  their  ground  till  Sumner  came  in  on 
their  right  flank.  The  Union  force  was  then  some 
32,ooomen  ;  the  Confederates,  under  G.  W.  Smith, 
Longstreet,  and  D.  H.  Hill,  were  some  40,000. 
Huger's  forces  were  not  actually  in  the  fight  until 
the  following  day.  The  next  day,  June  1,  the 
Union  forces  recovered  a  part  of  the  lost  ground, 
and  during  the  night  the  Confederates  fell  back 
towards  Richmond. 

June  8,  1862. —  At  Cross  Keys,  Virginia,  Ewell, 
with  5000  men,  defeated  Fremont,  with  12,000. 

June  9,  1862. —  At  Port  Republic,  Tyler  and  Car- 
roll, with  3500  men,  held  their  ground  against 
Jackson's  12,000  for  several  hours. 

June  26,  1862. —  At  Meadow  Bridge  (or  Mechanics- 
ville),  McCall,  with  9000  men,  inflicted  grievous 
loss  on  A.  P.  Hill,  with  14,000.  McCall  held  his 
ground  till  night,  and  then  retired.  "^ 

June  27,  1862. — At  Gaines'  Mill,  Porter,  with  35,- 
000  men,  held  the  bulk  of  the  Confederate  Army 
—  at  least  60,000  strong  —  at  bay  all  day,  retir- 
ing after  night  fell.  The  victory  remained  with 
Lee,  but  Porter's  fighting  was  magnificent. 

June  29,  1862. —  At  Allen's  Farm,  Richardson  and 
Sedgwick,  16,000  men,  easily  held  head  against 
a  brilliant  attack  by  McLaws  and  Griffith,  with 
7000,  retiring  at  night. 

June  29,  1862. — At  Savage's  Station,  Sumner  and 
Franklin,  with  26,000  men,  held  back  four  bri- 
gades of  Magruder  and  McLaws,  with  about  10,- 
000,  retiring  at  night.  These  two  actions  were 
affairs  of  the  rear  guard  of  the  Army  of  the  Poto- 
mac. The  Confederate  attacks  were  handsomely 
made. 

June  30,  1862. —  Franklin,  with  a  part  of  Sedgwick, 
some  18,000,  held  the  approaches  of  White  Oak 
Swamp  against  Jackson,  whose  corps  was  about 
36,000  strong.  There  was  no  chance  in  this  de- 
file for  Jackson  to  attack. 

June  30,  1862. — At  Glendale,  Hooker,  McCall,  and 
part  of  Sedgwick — 18,000  —  held  their  ground 
against  the  stanchest  efforts  of  Longstreet,  A.  P. 
Hill,  Huger,  and  Magruder,  some  20,000,  retiring 
at  night. 

July  i  ,  1 862. —  At  Malvern  Hill,  McClellan  had  about 
60,000  men  at  hand  ;  Lee,  probably  50,000  men. 
The  Confederate  attacks  were  confined  to  fifteen 
brigades  of  Magruder,  D.  H.  Hill,  and  Huger,  say 
34,000  men,  against  Porter,  Couch,  Morell, 
Kearny,  Caldwell,  Sickles,  Meagher,  say  40,000 
men.    This  was  a  clear  Union  victory. 

August  8,  1862. —  At  Cedar  Mountain,  Virginia, 
Banks's  7500  men  made  so  smart  an  attack  on 
Jackson's  force  of  21,500,  that  the  Confederates 
retired  from  the  field  at  night.  Banks  also  with- 
drew. Much  the  larger  part  of  Jackson's  force  was 
engaged. 

August  28,  1862.— Near  Gainesville,  Virginia,  the 
brigades  of  Gibbon  and  Doubleday,   with  5^00 


VALOR  AND   SKILL   IN  THE    CIVIL   WAR. 


i47 


men,  made  a  gallant  fight  against  Ewell  and  Tal- 
iafero,  with  six  brigades,  some  7000  ;  but  accom- 
plished no  result.  The  Federals  held  the  field  till 

1    A.   M. 

August  29,  1862. —  At  Groveton,  Reynolds,  Sigel, 
Reno,  Heintzelman,  and  Stevens,  26,000  men, 
attacked  Jackson's  25,000,  but  without  result. 
On  the  same  day,  Hatch,  with  5000  men,  had 
a  sharp  fight  with  two  brigades  of  Hood's,  some 
3800  men,  without  definite  result. 

August  30,  1862. —  At  the  Second  Bull  Run  (a  con- 
tinuation of  the  two  preceding  battles),  Pope  had 
about  58,000  men  to  Lee's  51,000.  Practically, 
the  whole  force  was  engaged  on  both  sides.  Bril- 
liant Confederate  victory. 

September  i,  1862. — At  Chantilly,  Reno,  Stevens, 
and  Kearny,  11,000  strong,  held  A.  P.Hill,  with 
8000,  in  check. 

September  14,  1862. — Twodivisionsof  Reno,  Meade, 
Hatch,  and  Ricketts,  22,000  strong,  forced  Turn- 
er's Gap,  on  South  Mountain,  Maryland,  defended 
by  D.  H.  Hill  and  two  divisions  of  Longstreet,  all 
but  14,000  strong. 

September  14,  1862. —  Slocum  and  Brooks,  with 
6500  men,  drove  McLaws,  with  4000  to  5000, 
from  Crampton's  Gap. 

September  16-17,  1862. —  At  Antietam,  Maryland, 
Lee's  40,000  men  fought  a  most  stubborn  battle 
against  McClellan's  75,000  men,  of  whom  some 
25,000  were  not  engaged.  Lee  put  in  his  last 
man,  and  though  forced  to  retire,  he  did  so  at  his 
leisure. 

September  19,  1862. —  At  Iuka,  Mississippi,  Price's 
1 3,000  men  defeated  Rosecrans'shead  of  column, 
Hamilton's  division,  of  5000  men.  But,  as  Ord 
was  approaching  from  the  north,  Price  deemed  it 
prudent  to  retire. 

October  3-4,  1862. —  At  Corinth,  Mississippi,  the 
forces  were  about  22,000  on  a  side,  and  Rosecrans 
defeated  Van  Dorn. 

October  8,  1862. —  Buell,  with  20,000  men,  de- 
feated Bragg,  with  an  equal  number,  at  Perryville. 

December  7,  1862. —  At  Prairie  Grove,  Arkansas,  the 
Federal  general  Blunt  defeated  Hindman.  Forces 
about  10,000  each. 

December  13,  1862. — The  numbers  in  contact  at 
Fredericksburg,  Virginia,  are  impossible  to  esti- 
mate; nor  was  this  a  ranged  battle.  It  was  a  gallant, 
but  wrong-headed,  attempt  to  do  the  impossible. 

December  31,  1862. —  At  Stone's  River,  Kentucky, 
Rosecrans,  with  43,000  men,  though  at  first  driven 
back  by  Bragg's  47,000,  managed  to  hold  his  own, 
and  retain  the  field  of  battle.  No  praise  is  too 
high  for  the  fighting  on  both  sides. 

May  2-5,  1863. —  Chancellorsville  was  the  most  bril- 
liant of  Lee's  victories.  Here,  by  his  splendid 
tactical  dispositions,  with  60,000  men,  he  de- 
feated Hooker  with  twice  the  number.  But  look- 
ing only  at  the  actual  fighting,  on  May  2,  at 
Dowdall's  Tavern,  Jackson,  with  22,000  men,  de- 
feated Howard,  with  10,000;  on  May  3,  at  Fair- 
view,  Stuart,  with  37,000  men,  drove  in  Sickles 
and  Couch,  with  32,000  ;  on  the  same  day,  at 
Salem  Church,  four  Confederate  brigades  of 
10,000  men  defeated  Brooks,  with  9000;  on  May 
4,  at  Banks's  Ford,  Lee,  with  25,000  men,  defeated 
Sedgwick,  with  20,000.  The  fighting  of  the  Con- 
federates was  as  superb  as  Lee's  tactics.  Where- 
ever  engaged,  the  Unionists  fought  with    equal 


credit,  but  pluck  was  unavailing  against  Hooker's 
hebetude. 

May  16,  1863. —  At  Champion's  Hill,  Mississippi, 
Grant  had  15,000  men  actually  engaged,  against 
Pemberton's  16,000.  The  latter  suffered  a  disas- 
trous defeat. 

July  1-4,  1863. —  Gettysburg,  Pennsylvania.  There 
is  much  dispute  as  to  the  numbers  engaged,  but 
68,000  Confederates  against  82,000  Federals  is  not 
far  from  the  mark.  On  the  first  day  Hill  and  Ewell 
much  outnumbered  as  well  as  defeated  the  First 
and  Eleventh  Corps  ;  on  the  second  day  the  fight 
of  the  Third  Corps,  with  some  reinforcements, 
against  Hood  and  McLaws  was  about  an  even 
thing  as  to  numbers  and  result,  and  the  same  ap- 
plies to  the  fighting  on  Cemetery  Hill ;  on  the 
third  day  that  part  of  the  column  under  Pickett, 
Pettigrew,  and  Trimble  which  reached  our  line 
was  speedily  outnumbered  by  the  forces  which 
rushed  in  towards  the  threatened  point. 

September  i 9-20,  1 863. —  At  Chickamauga,  Georgia, 
Rosecrans,  with  55,000  men,  was  badly  defeated 
by  Bragg,  with  65,000.  But  the  stand  here  made 
by  Thomas  on  Horse-shoe  Ridge,  against  the  re- 
peated assaults  of  vast  odds,  will  be  forever  mem- 
orable. 

November  23-2  5 ,  1 863 . —  At  Chattanooga,  Grant  had 
about  60,000  men  ;  Bragg,  over  40,000.  The  de- 
feat of  the  latter  was  overwhelming. 

This  list  of  fifty  battles  gives  twenty  victo- 
ries to  the  Confederates,  an  equal  number  to 
the  Federals,  and  leaves  ten  which  may  fairly 
be  called  drawn.  In  these  fifty  battles,  at  the 
point  of  fighting  contact,  the  Confederates  out- 
numbered the  Federals  by  an  average  of  about 
two  per  cent. 

As  regards  brilliant  assaults  upon  regular 
works,  the  Confederates  were  never  called  on 
to  show  such  devotion  as  was  manifested  by 
the  Federals  at  Fredericksburg,  the  several 
assaults  at  Vicksburg  and  Port  Hudson,  Spott- 
sylvania,  Cold  Harbor,  and  Petersburg.  Few 
trials  of  fighting  qualities,  in  any  war,  go  be- 
yond some  of  these. 

As  will  be  seen  from  the  table  of  forces,  after 
the  winter  of  1863-64  the  Union  forces  so 
vastly  outnumbered  the  Confederate,  that  com- 
parison of  the  merits  of  actual  fighting  becomes 
more  difficult.  We  can  deduce  little  from  the 
battles  except  stanch  purpose  on  the  Federal, 
and  brilliant  courage,  coupled  with  marvel- 
ously  able  military  management,  on  the  Con- 
federate side.  But  if  one  will  take  the  pains  to 
tabulate  the  numbers  actually  engaged  during 
all  but  the  last  months  of  the  crumbling  away 
of  the  Confederate  armies,  there  appear  plainly 
two  facts :  first,  that  the  Confederates,  by  su- 
perior management  and  better  position,  op- 
posed to  the  Federals  fully  equal  numbers  at 
the  point  of  fighting  contact ;  and  secondly,  that 
of  the  combats  during  the  entire  struggle  the 
Federals  had  their  full  share  of  the  victories. 

It  is  certain  that  the  statistics  of  the  war  rob 
the  wearers  of  the  blue  and  the  gray  of  the 


148 


VALOR   AND   SKILL   LN  THE    CLVLL    WAR. 


right  to  boast  one  at  the  expense  of  the  other. 
Neither  can  claim  superiority  in  actual  battle. 
The  case  bears  enough  semblance  to  Greek 
meeting  Greek  to  satisfy  the  reasonable  aspira- 
tions of  either  "Yank"  or  "Johnny." 

And  in  this  connection  it  may  not  be  amiss, 
once  more,  to  give  our  national  self-esteem  a 
bonne  douche  in  the  following  table  : 

TABLE    OF    LOSSES    IN    SUNDRY   BATTLES    OF    THE 
EIGHTEENTH   AND    NINETEENTH   CENTURIES. 

Percentage 

of  killed 

and  -wounded 

of  number 

engaged. 

Prussians. —  Up  to  Waterloo,  in  eight  battles   18.42 

"  At  Koniggratz 3.86 

Austrians. —  Up  to  Waterloo,  in  seven  battles  11. 17 

"  Since  in  two 8. 56 

French. —  Up  to  Waterloo, in  nine  battles.  .  .  .      22.38 

"  Since  in  nine 8.86 

Germans. —  Since  1745,  in  eight  battles II-53 

English. —  In  four  battles 10.36 

Federals. —  In  eleven  battles 12.89 

Confederates. —  In  eleven  battles 14.16 

From  this  table  it  is  manifest  that,  excepting 
only  the  troops  of  Frederick  and  of  Napoleon, 
the  American  volunteer  has  shown  himself 
equal  to  taking  the  severest  punishment  of 
any  troops  upon  the  field  of  battle.  The  won- 
derfully pertinacious  tactics  of  those  two  great 
captains,  rather  than  the  discipline  of  their 
troops,  explains  the  excess  of  loss  of  their  bat- 
tles. And  while  the  capacity  to  face  heavy 
loss  is  but  one  of  the  elements  which  go  to 
make  up  the  soldier,  it  is  perhaps  of  them  all 
the  most  telling. 

Theodore  Ayrault  Dodge, 
Brevet  Lieut. -Col.  United  States  Army. 


II. WHICH    WAS    THE    BETTER    ARMY? 

It  is  a  Northern  tradition  that  no  army  ever 
entered  the  field  better  organized  than  the 
Army  of  the  Potomac ;  that  McClellan  alone 
had  the  science  of  army  construction  fixed  in 
his  mind.  Of  the  leading  officers  of  both  sides 
many  were  his  classmates ;  all  of  them  studied 
from  the  same  books,  and  received  instruction 
from  the  same  wise  lips ;  many  were  high  in 
rank,  mature  in  age,  had  remained  in  continu- 
ous service,  and  were  familiar  with  the  hand- 
ling of  troops.  Any  one  of  them  with  the  same 
opportunity  possibly  might  have  equaled,  if 
not  have  bettered,  the  by  no  means  perfect 

1  Yet  General  Lee  was  dissatisfied  with  the  organ- 
ization of  his  army,  for  on  May  21,  1863,  he  wrote  to 
General  Hood :  "  You  must  so  inspire  and  lead  your 
brave  division  as  that  it  may  accomplish  the  work  of  a 
corps.  I  agree  with  you  as  to  the  size  of  the  corps  of 
this  army.  They  are  too  large,  for  the  country  we  have 
to  operate  in,  for  one  man  to  handle.  I  saw  it  all  last 
campaign.  I  have  endeavored  to  remedy  it, —  this  in 
a  measure  at  least, —  but  do  not  know  whether  I  shall 


organization  of  the  Federal  army.  It  was  laid 
down  in  military  primers  that  so  many  men 
made  a  regiment,  so  many  regiments  a  brigade, 
a  number  of  brigades  a  division,  a  few  divi- 
sions a  corps,  and  the  combination  of  corps 
made  the  army.  The  old  army  that  fought  in 
Mexico  and  served  for  years  on  the  frontier  was 
built  on  these  rules.  European  armies  were 
formed  on  the  same  general  plan. 

That  the  formation  of  an  army  from  zealous 
but  untrained  volunteers  required  a  vast  deal 
of  labor,  none  will  deny ;  that  the  arming  and 
supplying  of  such  an  army  and  the  gathering 
together  of  all  its  immense  trains  required  a 
deal  of  forethought  and  wisdom,  all  will  ad- 
mit ;  but  the  fallacy  that  grew  up  in  the  minds 
of  a  people  unused  to  war,  that  in  only  one 
man,  among  all  our  skilled  officers,  was  this 
power  of  organization  ripe  and  complete,  would, 
if  true,  be  a  blot  upon  the  boasted  intelligence 
and  ability  of  Northern  men. 

The  chief  trouble  with  the  "marvelous"  for- 
mation of  the  Army  of  the  Potomac  was  the 
fact  that  it  always  seemed  necessary  to  reor- 
ganize it.  McClellan  divided  it  into  seven 
corps,  thereby  giving  the  army  seven  almost 
independent  commanders  —  seven  men  with 
different  ideas  and  ambitions,  who  could  never 
be  fully  relied  upon  for  effective  cooperation 
in  the  emergency  of  battle.  Upon  the  acces- 
sion of  Burnside  to  power,  reorganization  be- 
gan :  the  independence  of  corps  commands 
was  done  away  with,  and  the  army  formed  into 
three  grand  divisions  of  two  or  more  corps 
each,  and  designated  the  Right,  Center,  and 
Left  Grand  Divisions.  Under  Hooker  this  idea 
went  to  pieces,  and  we  find  the  seven  corps  in 
use  again.  When  Grant  came  east,  though  the 
Army  of  the  Potomac  had  more  men  than 
ever  before,  he  reduced  the  formation  to  three 
corps,  thus  showing  his  disapproval  of  the  mul- 
tiplicity of  small  commands,  and  his  commen- 
dation of  Lee's  plan,  from  the  start,  of  building 
his  army  in  large  parts.1  In  view  of  the  four 
years  of  terrible  bloodshed ;  in  view  of  the  fact, 
that,  although  backed  by  vast  power  and  wealth, 
it  was  impossible  to  conquer  the  smaller  Army 
of  Northern  Virginia,  half  equipped  and  half 
supplied,  except  by  wearing  them  out — -the 
assertion  is  ventured  that  it  was  superior  to 
the  Army  of  the  Potomac  in  its  formation. 
While  the  brigades  of  the  Confederate  army 
were  no   larger   than  those    of  the   Federal 

succeed.  ...  I  agree  with  you  also  in  believing  that 
our  army  would  be  invincible  if  it  could  be  properly 
organized  and  officered.  There  never  were  such  men 
in  an  army  before.  They  will  go  anywhere  and  do 
anything  if  properly  led.  But  there  is  the  difficulty : 
proper  commanders,  where  can  they  be  obtained? 
But  they  are  improving,  constantly  improving." — 
Editor. 


VALOR   AND    SKILL   IN  THE    CIVIL    WAR. 


14.9 


army,  its  divisions  were  nearly  twice  as  large  ; 
rarely  less  than  four  brigades,  they  were  oftener 
six  and  seven.  The  commanders  of  such  divi- 
sions became  men  of  wide  experience  in  that 
most  vital  necessity  of  a  successful  soldier,  the 
ability  to  handle  large  bodies  of  troops,  and  they 
were  enabled  to  maintain  their  grasp  on  affairs 
when  suddenly  called  by  the  exigencies  of  bat- 
tle to  assume  still  wider  command.  The  corps 
formation  was  in  the  same  proportion  larger 
and  more  substantial  than  that  of  the  Union 
army,  four  and  sometimes  five  of  their  large 
divisions  being  incorporated  into  one  corps  as 
against  the  usual  Federal  corps  of  three  small 
divisions.  The  commander  of  a  Confederate 
corps  became  a  general  officer  in  every  sense 
of  the  word.  His  command  was  a  corps  d'armee, 
and  his  duties  fell  little  short  of  those  of  a 
chief.  Had  this  system  of  larger  divisions  and 
corps  been  carried  out  in  our  army,  the  Federal 
commanders  would  have  been  accustomed  to 
handle  large  forces  when  they  were  called, 
one  after  another,  to  assume  vast  responsi- 
bilities, and  a  different  story  might  possibly 
have  been  told  of  the  war.  History  need  not 
be  studied  very  deeply  to  ascertain  the  value 
and  power  of  these  large  corps  when  thrown 
suddenly  upon  some  weak  point  in  the  oppos- 
ing lines.  To  mention  one  of  many  instances  : 
On  the  afternoon  of  the  last  day's  fight  at  the 
Second  Bull  Run,  disaster  was  made  a  cer- 
tainty when  Longstreet,  with  his  five  divisions, 
suddenly  struck  the  Federal  flank.  When  we 
understand  fully  the  stubborn,  though  unavail- 
ing, resistance  made  against  him,  it  does  not 
require  a  very  large  imagination  to  realize  how 
futile  would  have  been  his  movement  had  he 
thrown  the  force  of  a  Federal  corps  against 
us ;  for  one  does  not  require  a  military  educa- 
tion to  comprehend  that  a  Federal  corps  of 
eight  or  nine  brigades  could  not  be  thrown 
into  action  with  the  sledge-hammer  force  of  a 
corps  consisting,  as  Longstreet's  did  that  day, 
of  fifteen  brigades.  This  corps  was  the  equal 
of  three  opposing  Federal  corps  in  the  number 
of  brigades  and  men,  and  was  operated  under 
the  guidance  of  one  brain,  whereas  the  same 
movement  on  our  side  would  have  been  con- 
trolled by  three  different  corps  commanders, 
thus  imperiling  success  through  the  splitting 
up  of  authority  and  action.  Such  a  coup  de 
main  as  Longstreet's,  or  as  Jackson's  at  Chan- 
cellorsville,  has  rarely  been  successful  when 
trusted  to  the  cooperation  of  several  comman- 
ders. Union  rosters  show  corps  with  five,  six, 
and  rarely  overnine  brigades  distributed  among 
three  divisions.  The  Confederate  roster  shows 
twenty  or  more  brigades  to  a  corps.  The  Ninth 
Corps,  from  the  beginning,  had,  with  tempo- 
rary exception,  only  two  brigades  to  a  division, 
so  that  many  Confederate  divisions  were  as 


large  as  this  corps,  and  had  one  head,  a  major- 
general,  as  compared  with  three  major-gener- 
als and  a  corps  commander  for  the  Union 
corps.  The  rosters  show  that  in  six  corps  of 
the  Army  of  the  Potomac  twenty-four  major- 
generals,  or  officers  holding  that  authority,  were 
in  command  of  corps  and  divisions  containing 
forty-five  brigades,  while  in  two  corps  of  the 
Army  of  Northern  Virginia  only  eleven  gen- 
erals of  that  rank  were  in  command  of  forty-one 
brigades,  showing  in  the  Union  army  a  scat- 
tering of  command  and  consequent  weakness 
in  power.  By  such  subdivision  the  plums  of 
power  were  made  numerous,  and  the  applicants 
for  them  proved  plentiful.  The  extra  stars  and 
powerful  positions  were  sought  not  wholly 
through  the  medium  of  valor  and  experience, 
but  through  political  means. 

Another  serious  objection  to  so  many  small 
commands  was  the  large  detail  for  staff  work. 
Under  McClellan's  organization  these  details 
were  lavish  in  the  extreme.  The  daily  reports 
of  the  Federal  army  always  had  to  be  reduced 
nearly  one-quarter  to  get  at  the  actual  fighting- 
strength.  Each  brigade,  each  division,  and  each 
corps,  no  matter  how  small,  must  have  its  staff, 
its  guards,  its  wagon  train.  A  division  of  twice 
the  size  would  scarcely  have  required  more. 
The  experienced  soldier  will  readily  under- 
stand what  thirteen  fewer  major-generals  means 
in  the  way  of  effective  service, —  thirteen 
fewer  little  kings  with  princely  retinues  to  be 
drawn  from  the  active  body, —  and  also,  still 
better,  the  difference  in  detail  if  two  corps 
commanders  were  to  take  the  place  of  six  or 
seven,  each  with  its  staff,  commissariat,  quar- 
termaster, ordnance,  medical,  inspection,  and 
signal  departments,  pioneers,  guards,  and  wag- 
oners, to  each  division  and  corps. 

With  respect  to  the  discipline  of  the  two 
armies,  McClellan  says  of  the  Confederate 
army  that  it  was  "  the  equal  in  heroism  of 
any  that  ever  met  the  shock  of  battle " ; 
Hooker  says,  "  Its  discipline  was  unsurpassed 
by  any  army  of  ancient  or  modern  times  " ; 
and  many  others  pay  the  same  glowing  trib- 
utes. What  but  discipline  made  it  so  perfect 
in  form  that  Lee,  caring  for  it  with  the  gentle- 
ness of  a  woman,  yet  ruled  it  with  a  rod  of 
iron  ?  The  rank  and  file  of  the  two  armies  dif- 
fered widely  :  one  was  built  upon  intelligence, 
education,  and  equality;  the  other  governed 
by  intelligence,  but  formed  largely  of  a  less  in- 
telligent force.  Discipline  in  one  army  could 
never  attain  its  perfect  height  owing  to  this 
equality,  but  in  the  other  a  hundred  years 
of  rule  by  the  higher  over  the  lower  made 
such  rule  and  discipline  possible.  Such  a  force 
thrown  into  battle  was  almost  resistless,  and 
the  question  of  organization  or  discipline  in 
the  Army  of  Northern  Virginia  needs  no  other 


i5° 


VALOR  AND   SKILL   IN  THE    CIVIL    WAR. 


answer  than  a  reading  of  the  roll  of  battles 
fought  on  Virginia  soil  from  Bull  Run  to  Ap- 
pomattox. 

Yet  the  valor  of  rank  and  file  avails  but  lit- 
tle if  the  man  at  the  head  is  not  stanch  and 
strong.  The  Confederates  trusted  Lee,  almost 
with  adoration;  but  the  Army  of  the  Potomac 
had  trusted  so  many  times,  only  to  be  cast  into 
the  depths  of  despair,  that  trust  had  become 
almost  a  forgotten  memory.  Wherein  did  the 
South,  with  small  area  and  limited  population, 
have  any  better  facilities  for  calling  skilled 
men  to  lead  them  than  did  the  vast  and  pop- 
ulous North  ?  Why  was  the  old  army  capable 
of  furnishing  better  soldiers  in  its  recreant  offi- 
cers than  in  its  loyal  ones  ?  Why  were  South- 
ern leaders  in  command  for  the  war,  while 
every  roar  of  battle  gave  us  a  new  one  ?  One 
answer  may  be  that  the  unfortunate  comman- 
ders of  the  Potomac  army  were  by  their  very 
organization  unused  to  wide  command.  The 
small  corps  gave  no  opportunity  to  acquire  the 
experience  necessary  suddenly  to  assume  con- 
trol of  seven  times  their  usual  command,  and 
in  contact  with  men  whose  daily  duties  had 
given  them  that  indispensable  experience  they 
went  down  like  a  row  of  bricks.  Lee,  with 
only  the  instruction  of  an  insignificant  war, 
led  his  ill-supplied  army  from  victory  to  vic- 
tory, year  after  year,  beating  back  with  terri- 
ble losses  the  wonderfully  organized,  perfectly 
equipped,  lavishly  supplied,  abundantly  offi- 
cered Army  of  the  Potomac.  The  Army  of 
Northern  Virginia  was  apparently  organized  to 
stay ;  its  commanders  were  allowed  time  to 
gain  experience  in  their  duties  and  to   learn 


thoroughly  the  management  of  troops,  and 
when  this  was  accomplished  they  were  trained 
soldiers,  quick  in  action,  valorous  in  battle,  and 
able  to  grasp  and  execute  the  emergencies  of 
the  conflict.  Our  officers  were  shifted  with  every 
turn  of  the  wind,  and  before  an  officer  could 
learn  his  duties  or  gain  control  of  his  troops, 
jealousy,  defeat,  or  political  machinations 
secured  dismissal  or  transfer ;  McClellan,  Mc- 
Dowell, Franklin,  Sumner,  Porter,  Hooker, 
Heintzelman,  Keyes,  Couch,  Burnside,  Sigel, 
Pleasonton,  and  so  on  —  oh,  how  long  the  list ! 
In  the  words  of  another :  "  The  Army  of  the 
Potomac  was  better  than  its  commanders;  it 
marched  and  fought  and  hungered  and  thirsted 
for  four  years,  hardly  ever  animated  by  vic- 
tory. It  showed,  in  all  that  it  achieved  and 
endured,  that  it  was  an  admirable  instrument 
for  the  hand  that  knew  how  to  wield  it,  but  it 
never  had  the  good  fortune  to  be  commanded 
by  a  soldier  worthy  of  it.  It  fought  to  the  end, 
it  did  its  work,  and  gained  its  crown,  but  its 
path  was  long  and  rough  and  seldom  cheered." 
The  ten  thousand  Union  soldiers  who  fell 
in  death  or  wounds  before  the  heights  of  Fred- 
ericksburg, and  the  seventeen  thousand  lost  at 
Chancellorsville,  were  the  equals  in  bravery 
of  any  soldiers  in  the  annals  of  warfare ;  so 
were  the  twenty-odd  thousand  who  bathed 
Gettysburg's  ridge  with  blood,  or  the  fourscore 
thousands  carried  from  the  fields  of  Virginia 
when  Grant  was  in  command.  The  leaders 
who  guided  the  operations  of  our  army  upon  so 
many  disastrous  fields  will,  alone,  bear  criticism 
or  comparison,  and  in  the  calmness  of  the 
future  will  be  called  to  judgment. 


Charles  A.  Patch, 

U.  S.   Volunteers. 


■<2L 


GOING     INTO     ACTION     UNDER     FIRE.       (FROM     A     WAR-TIME     SKETCH.) 


TOPICS    OF    THE    TIME, 


George  "Washington  and  Memorial  Day. 

THE  intrusion  of  a  mass  of  new  Washington  mate- 
rial into  a  number  of  The  Century  intended  to  be 
in  especial  keeping  with  the  sentiment  of  Decoration,  or 
Memorial,  Day,  is  surely  not  an  inappropriate  or  unwel- 
come intrusion.  In  bringing  out,  just  a  year  after  the 
Centennial  of  Washington's  inauguration,  these  relics 
of  the  first  President,  it  is  well  to  recall  once  more  the 
salutary  fact  that  the  first  soldier  of  the  New  World 
remains  also  its  first  citizen. 

As  a  soldier,  it  is  easy  now  to  see  that  his  great- 
ness consisted  largely  in  the  way  he  received  dis- 
aster. He  proved  his  nobility  in  rising  above  defeat, 
in  wrenching  success  from  failure ;  in  keeping  an  im- 
movable front  against  reverse,  detraction,  and  infamous 
abuse.  His  life  was  one  long  struggle ;  not,  as  to  a 
superficial  view  it  might  seem,  a  series  of  mere  fortu- 
nate successes.  High  character,  rather  than  "  good 
luck,"  was  his  immortal  equipment. 

But  it  is  as  a  citizen  that  Washington  gives  what 
may  be  thought  to  be  the  most  valuable  lesson  of  his 
career  —  the  lesson  of  absolute  honesty,  absolute  dis- 
interestedness. Let  those  who  preach,  who  teach,  who 
vote,  make  the  contrast  on  all  occasions  between  the 
tone  of  Washington  and  that  of  every  public  man  of 
to-day  who  falls  below  his  standard.  The  standard 
is  not  too  high  for  any  man.  Washington  was  no  angel, 
saint,  or  demigod.  We  have  a  right  to  exact  from 
every  man  who  takes  public  service  equal  public  virtue. 
The  people  do  this  theoretically,  if  not  practically,  al- 
ready ;  but  we  will  not  have  city,  State,  or  national 
government  what  it  should  be  till  we  make  the  demand 
in  practice  as  well  as  in  theory. 

To  the  veteran  of  our  day  the  lesson  of  Washing- 
ton's citizenship  applies  with  special  force.  Does  not 
every  true  and  manly  ex-soldier  know  that  not  every 
one  who  fought  for  the  Union  a  quarter  of  a  century 
ago  has  frankly  re-assumed  his  citizenship  —  without 
boast  or  insistence  or  unmanly  demand  ?  And  yet  what 
noble  examples  of  self-respecting,  unselfish  return  to 
private  life  and  civic  duties  have  been  afforded  by  our 
disbanded  armies.  All  honor  to  the  dead  who  died  in 
the  time  and  act  of  war ;  all  honor  to  the  true  soldiers 
who  have  died  in  the  succeeding  years  of  peace;  all 
honor  to  their  worthy  living  comrades  !  And  how 
fortunate  that  the  sentiment  of  reunion  across  the 
lines  is  already  an  old  and  trite  story — that  the  blue 
and  the  gray  so  often  unite  to  decorate  the  graves  of 
those  who,  living,  bravely  and  honestly  contended. 


The  New  Movement  in  Education. 

THIS  generation  is  witnessing  a  widespread  and  in- 
telligent intercstin  the  subject  of  popular  education  such 
as  even  Horace  Mann  never  dreamed  of.  Aprofounder 
appreciation  of  what  citizenship  implies  and  involves 
is  leading  to  more  strenuous  efforts  to  remove  the  blight 


of  illiteracy,  and  to  give  to  every  child  at  least  an  ele- 
mentary education,  in  order  that  he  may  not  be  wholly 
unprepared  for  the  opportunities  and  responsibilities 
of  manhood.  It  may  be  that  many  of  these  efforts  are 
ill-timed  and  misdirected,  but  they  are  all  earnest  and 
actuated  by  lofty  motives.  In  countries  where  the 
educational  administration  is  national,  and  therefore 
centralized,  these  new  movements  produce  an  effect 
quickly.  Where  the  local  communities  must  first  be 
reached  effects  follow  more  slowly,  but  perhaps  with 
the  more  complete  indorsement  of  the  common  peo- 
ple, and  consequently  with  a  greater  chance  of  per- 
manence. 

In  the  United  States  the  organization  and  super- 
vision of  public  education  is,  without  exception,  a 
function  of  the  State  governments.  The  United  States 
has  a  Bureau  of  Education,  but  it  is  only  advisory; 
the  municipalities  and  townships  have  Boards  of  Edu- 
cation and  school  trustees  respectively,  but  they  act  by 
virtue  of  State  legislation  and  under  limitations  and 
restrictions  similarly  imposed.  We  have,  therefore,  in 
this  country  no  national  system  of  education  in  the 
sense  that  such  a  thing  exists  in  Prussia  or  in  France, 
but  rather  forty-two  systems  of  education.  The  points 
of  difference  between  these  various  systems  are  almost 
as  many  as  the  points  of  agreement.  Yet,  while  each 
State  has  its  own  educational  laws,  and  raises,  appro- 
priates, and  distributes  its  school  funds  as  it  sees  fit, 
there  is  a  well-defined  movement  in  each  State  to  learn 
by  the  experience  of  the  others;  and  slowly  but  surely 
that  uniformity  which  the  Constitution  neither  imposed 
nor  provided  for  is  brought  about  by  the  action  of  the 
States  themselves. 

Perhaps  no  single  agency  contributes  as  much  to  this 
end  as  the  frequent  gathering  of  teachers  and  educa- 
tional administrators  in  associations  and  conferences. 
The  number  of  these  bodies  now  meeting  regularly  to 
study  and  discuss  the  various  phases  that  the  problem 
of  public  education  presents  is  quite  beyond  calcula- 
tion. Undoubtedly  the  most  effective  of  these  associa- 
tions, and  the  one  that  carries  most  weight  with  the 
general  public,  is  that  known  as  the  Department  of  Su- 
perintendence, National  Educational  Association, 
which  held  its  annual  meeting  a  few  weeks  ago  in  the 
city  of  New  York.  This  body  is  composed  of  the 
State,  county,  and  city  superintendents  of  schools 
throughout  the  country,  and  for  many  years  past  has 
considered  and  debated  those  educational  questions 
that  seemed  to  possess  the  most  immediate  and  prac- 
tical interest.  Having  no  official  existence,  and  conse- 
quently no  legislative  responsibility,  the  Department 
of  Superintendence  enjoys  a  certain  freedom  of  speech 
and  action  which  is  as  unique  as  it  is  beneficial  in  a 
body  constituted  of  such  representative  men.  Almost 
every  educator  of  note  in  the  country  has  at  some  time 
or  other  spoken  before  the  Department.  At  the  recent 
meeting,  for  example,  the  presidents  of  Harvard,  Co- 
lumbia, Cornell,  and  Rutgers  colleges,  as  well  as  the 


151 


i52 


TOPICS   OF  THE    TIME. 


United  States  Commissioners  of  Education  and  of 
Indian  Affairs,  appeared  upon  the  programme.  The 
presence  of  such  men  is  a  warrant  that  the  discussions 
will  be  lofty  in  tone  and  practical  in  character. 

It  is  not  easy  to  select  from  the  many  topics  touched 
upon  at  the  New  York  meeting  those  which  are  of  the 
greatest  general  interest.  A  very  able  discussion  was 
called  out  by  the  subject  of  "  The  Education  of  the 
Negro  in  the  South,"  and  no  mere  comment  could  do 
justice  to  it.  At  another  session  the  place  that  educa- 
tion should  occupy  in  any  international  exposition  that 
may  be  held  in  1892  was  clearly  indicated,  and  a  host 
of  valuable  suggestions  placed  at  the  disposal  of  those 
who  may  be  charged  with  the  organization  of  an  edu- 
cational exhibit.  In  one  of  the  most  forcible  papers  of 
the  session,  Superintendent  Maxwell  of  Brooklyn 
discussed  city  school  systems, —  which,  as  every  one 
knows,  offer  very  serious  problems  peculiar  to  them- 
selves,—  and  pointed  out  that  the  only  power  which  can 
be  relied  upon  to  check  and  uproot  the  evil  forces  that 
have  crept  into  the  municipal  administration  of  educa- 
tion is  the  State  Department  of  Public  Instruction. 
The  sentiment  of  the  majority  of  the  meeting  was  in 
favor  of  Mr.  Maxwell's  very  cautious  and  conservative 
suggestions,  though  the  representatives  from  New 
England,  where  the  town  is  still  the  political  unit,  were 
unable  to  indorse  them  fully.  President  Eliot  pre- 
sented with  marked  ability  and  success  the  subject  of 
secondary  education  in  this  country.  His  opinion  of 
its  present  condition  will  be  gathered  from  the  follow- 
ing adjectives  which,  among  others,  were  applied  at 
various  points  in  the  paper,  either  to  the  secondary 
schools  themselves,  or  to  the  instruction  which  they 
offer:  "defective,  disjointed,  and  heterogeneous," 
"  deficient  in  number  and  defective  in  quality,"  "  feeble 
and  distracted."  Not  least  in  importance  of  the  occur- 
rences at  this  meeting  were  the  unanimous  indorse- 
ment by  the  Department  of  the  International  Copyright 
Bill  and  the  resolution  calling  for  the  reorganization  of 
the  National  Bureau  of  Education  as  an  independent 
Department,  such  as  that  of  Agriculture  used  to  be,  and 
that  of  Labor  now  is. 

The  Lingering  Duello. 

That  remnant  of  savagery,  the  single  combat,  in- 
cluding the  duel,  the  street-fight,  "posting,"  and 
every  form  of  provocation  to  single  combat,  has  had  its 
day  in  most  parts  of  our  country,  and  that  from  influ- 
ences of  all  kinds.  There  were  times  in  New  York  City 
when  the  duel  was  an  admitted  possibility  of  politics  ; 
when  De  Witt  Clinton  could  publicly  style  his  oppo- 
nent, Swartwout,  "  a  liar,  a  scoundrel,  and  a  villain  "  ; 
when  in  the  duel  which  followed,  after  five  shots  had 
been  exchanged  and  Swartwout  had  been  wounded  in 
two  of  them,  he  sat  up  and  pleaded  vainly  for  another 
round ;  when  it  was  charged  publicly  that  the  young 
men  of  the  Burr  faction  were  endeavoring  to  "  pick  off" 
their  political  opponents  by  relays  of  challenges.  All 
this  led  up  to  the  killing  of  Hamilton  and  the  sermon 
of  Dr.  Nott  thereon,  one  of  those  sermons  which  have 
stirred  our  people's  hearts  to  the  core.  From  that 
time,  in  this  part  of  the  country,  every  provocation 
to  a  duel  has  been  largely  neutralized  by  the  knowledge 
that  the  jury's  oath  and  the  judge's  charge  would  be 
conditioned  largely  by  Dr.  Nott's  sermon.  There  have 
been  duels  among  army  and  navy  officers,  until    the 


growth  of  public  sentiment  has  suppressed  them. 
There  have  been  historical  duels,  such  as  those  of  Lin- 
coln and  Shields,  or  of  Terry  and  Broderick ;  but 
Western  legislation  has  found  summary  means  for  sup- 
pressing them. 

In  one  part  of  the  country  public  opinion  is  still 
too  strong  for  either  law  or  gospel,  and  maintains,  in 
opposition  to  both  of  them,  the  right  and  duty  of  the 
individual  to  defend  his  own  position,  if  need  be,  by 
some  form  of  single  combat.  No  doubt  it  is  a  remnant 
of  militarism  :  just  as  the  military- classes  of  modern 
Europe  insist  upon  the  duel  as  a  class  privilege,  the 
upper  classes  of  Southern  whites,  who  used  to  main- 
tain slavery  by  a  semi-military  organization,  retain  this 
mode  of  militarism,  though  slavery  is  gone.  Those  of 
us  who  live  in  other  sections  of  the  country  are  begin- 
ning to  learn  something  of  the  severity  of  the  problems 
which  slavery  has  left  behind  it,  and  the  curious  com- 
plication of  forces  which  makes  the  solution  of  one  of 
these  problems  seem  for  the  time  to  be  worse  than 
useless.  We  have  felt  for  a  quarter  of  a  century  that 
the  negro  was  not  a  political  man  until  his  place  in  the 
jury-box  was  assured  to  him.  The  influential  classes  of 
the  South,  to  do  them  justice,  have  gradually  come  to 
the  same  conclusion,  and  we  have  had  a  spectacle  well 
calculated  to  bring  Governor  Hammond  out  of  his 
grave  in  protest  —  a  "  chivalrous"  white  man  tried  for 
his  life  in  Charleston  before  a  jury  of  which  a  majority 
were  negroes. 

And  yet  the  immediate  results  were  very  far  from 
good.  The  case  only  showed  that  the  negro  juror  was 
quite  as  demoralized  as  his  white  colleague ;  that 
"boss  "  and"massa"  were  still  as  supreme  with  one 
as  "  chivalry  "  was  with  the  other ;  and  that  the  duello 
in  the  South  rested  not  on  the  support  of  unthinking 
whites  alone,  but  of  unthinking  blacks  also.  The 
brutal  case  of  murder  resulted  in  an  acquittal. 

Is  this  untoward  event  to  close  the  efforts  of  those 
who  have  carried  the  negro  thus  far  on  the  road  to- 
wards equal  manhood  ?  Are  they  to  decide  that  their 
own  race  needs  conversion  first,  and  that  the  negro 
must,  until  then,  be  left  to  himself?  To  do  so  would 
be  to  forget  that  every  taint  of  slavery  in  the  status  of 
the  negro  means  the  survival  of  militarism  and  the 
duello  among  the  whites.  How  much  this  means  is 
well  worth  the  serious  thought  of  those  who  are  re- 
making the  South.  Are  they  to  rely  upon  the  natural 
wealth  of  their  region,  upon  its  iron  and  other  metals, 
upon  its  cotton  and  cotton-seeds,  and  upon  the  coming 
in  of  men  from  other  sections  to  claim  a  share  of  all 
this  wealth  ?  They  will  be  relying  upon  a  broken  reed. 
Bankers,  mill-owners,  superintendents  of  factories  and 
railways,  do  not  work,  if  they  can  help  it,  in  an  environ- 
ment which  compels  the  use  of  the  pistol-pocket. 
Northern  manufacturers  and  business  men,  who  realize 
the  intensity  of  the  competition  which  is  some  day  to 
come  upon  them  from  the  South,  will  do  their  work 
with  less  present  apprehension  so  long  as  any  lingering 
remnant  of  the  duello  shall  wind  its  tentacles  around 
Southern  business. 

Of  course  there  is  no  real  belief  or  desire  in  the  North 
and  West  that  the  welfare  of  their  sections  should  be 
founded  permanently  upon  the  crippling  of  competition 
in  the  South;  one  section  cannot  be  crippled  but  that  the 
others  shall  feel  it  profoundly.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
suggestions  offered   are  to  the    thinking   men  of  the 


TOPICS    OF  THE    TIME. 


153 


South,  who  have  emancipated  themselves  from  the  en- 
slaving notions  of  "  chivalry  " ;  who  have  learned  at  least 
that  clerks  and  farmers'  boys  are  none  the  less  men  for 
their  contempt  of  a  country  which  retains  any  vestiges 
of  the  "code."  It  is  such  Southern  men  who  have 
given  their  section  its  progress  since  1865,  and  they 
should  not  despair  of  the  Republic  now.  The  shouting 
mobs  of  unthinking  men,  white  and  black,  are  in  the 
supremacy  now.  The  thinking  white  men  of  the  South 
and  the  black  men  whom  they  have  taught  to  think  and 
act  with  them,  and  to  know  how  absolutely  incompat- 
ible are  "  chivalry  "  and  common  sense,  the  duello  and 
modern  business  —  these  are  the  men  whose  persistent, 
never  discouraged  influence  will  finally  rid  the  South 
of  every  form  of  single  combat. 

The  Churches  and  the  Poor. 

One  of  the  noteworthy  features  of  recent  years  has 
been  the  earnestness  with  which  the  relations  of  the 
Christian  Church,  and  particularly  of  the  various  Protes- 
tant sects,  to  the  poor  have  been  discussed  in  all  their 
aspects,  religious,  sociological,  and  even  political.  The 
general  subject  involves  problems  under  all  these  heads 
the  elements  of  which  are  so  incompletely  under- 
stood that  the  answers  can  as  yet  only  be  guessed  at; 
and  on  the  other  hand  it,  with  its  possible  or  probable 
answers,  forms  an  essential  element  in  other  social 
problems,  the  solutions  of  which  will  be  very  seriously 
modified  by  the  shape  which  is  finally  given  to  this 
one.  There  is  room,  then,  for  temperate  discussion 
representing  every  shade  of  opinion  and  belief :  lay- 
man or  cleric,  Christian,  doubter,  or  indifferent  —  all 
have  some  reasons  for  interest  in  the  general  question. 

The  discussion  has  been  more  temperate  than  has 
always  been  the  case  with  kindred  questions.  The 
general  feeling,  even  of  those  who  have  not  felt  or  pro- 
fessed any  sympathy  with  the  supernatural  claims  of 
Christianity,  has  been  that  it  has  relations  to  the  prob- 
lems of  poverty  which  deserve  as  calm  and  careful 
consideration  as  any  purely  scientific  subject  could 
receive ;  and  this,  in  most  cases,  has  given  the  tone  to 
their  share  of  the  discussion.  The  clerical  element  has 
apparently  been  willing  to  consider  the  question  of 
human  instrumentality,  of  plans  and  methods,  as  well 
as  that  of  purpose,  as  fundamental  to  the  question. 
And  the  lay  element  of  the  Church,  apparently  encour- 
aged by  the  attitude  of  its  habitual  opponents  and  of 
its  pastoral  superiors,  has  entered  the  discussion  and 
contributed  largely  to  its  interest  and  to  the  value  of  its 
results.  Few  discussions  of  the  kind  have  been  so  free 
from  the  odium  theologicum,  and  the  tone  and  temper  of 
the  parties  have  served  to  make  many  points  of  Church 
policy  clearer  than  they  had  ever  been  before. 

It  is  possible,  then,  that  a  secular  magazine  may 
point  out  one  element  of  the  problem  that  deserves 
consideration,  at  least.  The  religious  side,  the  merely 
ethical  side,  the  economical  side,  the  political  side,  of 
the  subject  have  received  each  its  share  of  considera- 
tion ;  and  it  seems  to  have  been  assumed  that  a  solution 
which  could  fairly  cover  all  these  points  would  be  com- 
plete. There  is,  however,  one  purely  material  side  of 
the  question,  which  touches  or  qualifies  each  of  the 
others  —  in  this  country,  at  any  rate  —  and  constitutes 
a  secondary  influence ;  that  is,  what  might  be  called  the 
social  geography  which  is  involved. 
Vol.  XL.— 21. 


The  drift  of  Americans  into  city  life,  resulting  thus 
far  in  an  urban  population  of  at  least  twenty-five  per 
cent.,  is  a  familiar  fact.  It  has  carried  most  of  the 
"  poorer  classes  "  into  the  cities  and  kept  them  and  their 
children  there,  so  that  the  relations  of  the  Church  to  the 
poor  have  become  in  our  time  a  question  of  Church 
policy  in  our  cities.  Any  influence,  then,  natural  or 
artificial,  which  affects  the  distribution  of  classes  in  our 
cities,  must  have  its  effect  on  the  problem  under  con- 
sideration. One  influence  of  this  kind  might  be  found  in 
the  influence  which  facilities  of  water  transportation 
have  had  on  the  location  of  American  cities.  The  bril- 
liant person  who  first  noticed  that  Providence  had 
caused  so  many  important  rivers  to  flow  past  large  cities 
could  hardly  have  found  so  many  cases  in  point  any- 
where else  as  in  the  United  States.  Of  course,  there  are 
cases  of  the  kind  everywhere.  But  many  of  the  English 
cities,  for  example,  date  from  a  time  when  there  was  com- 
paratively little  intercommunication,  and  the  presence 
or  absence  of  a  water-way  was  of  far  less  importance 
than  in  later  times.  American  cities  all  date  from  a  time 
when  intercommunication  had  fairly  begun,  and  their 
founders  looked  of  necessity  to  water-ways  as  an  ele- 
ment in  their  location.  Even  in  the  case  of  cities  which 
have  been  founded  or  developed  under  the  influence 
of  the  railroad,  the  superior  cheapness  of  water  trans- 
portation has  compelled  attention. 

The  American  city  may  have  been  built  along  the 
line  of  a  single  river  or  lake-front,  as  in  the  case  of 
Cincinnati  or  Chicago ;  or  in  the  embrace  of  two 
rivers,  as  in  the  case  of  New  York  or  Philadelphia ; 
or  bays  may  take  the  place  of  rivers,  as  in  the  case 
of  Boston  or  San  Francisco.  In  any  of  these  cases 
the  water  limitation  will  modify  the  social  geography 
and  social  development  of  the  city  so  as  to  make  it 
reflect  the  type  characteristics  of  its  prototype,  Lon- 
don. The  "West  End"  of  the  American  city  will 
not  be  of  necessity  in  the  same  direction.  It  may  be 
developed  on  a  bluff,  away  from  the  water,  or  "  up- 
town," or  on  its  "  Nob's  Hill " ;  but  in  any  case  it 
makes  the  social  distance  very  great  and  marked  be- 
tween this  quarter  of  the  city  and  that  given  over  to  the 
lower  and  even  to  the  middle  classes.  There  must  be 
some  such  interval  in  any  city,  but  it  is  much  greater 
by  reason  of  the  immovable  boundary  than  in  a  city 
which  is  free  to  expand  in  any  direction.  This  is  es- 
pecially the  case  with  those  city  locations  which  have 
rivers  on  two  sides,  New  York  City  being  the  best 
example.  The  confluent  streams  compress  the  city  to 
a  point ;  and  the  wealthier  class,  as  it  enlarges  and 
seeks  more  room  for  the  establishment  of  its  own 
neighborhood,  is  pushed  "  up-town  "  very  much  faster 
and  farther  than  in  cities  in  which  a  lateral  expansion 
is  possible.  However  much  this  tendency  may  be  re- 
lieved by  ferry  and  railway  systems  and  by  suburban 
development,  it  cannot  but  have  its  peculiar  effect  in 
widening  the  modern  distance  between  rich  and  poor. 

And  the  consequent  social  geography  of  the  Ameri- 
can city  must  have  its  influence  on  the  problems  in- 
volved in  the  relations  of  the  Church  to  the  poor.  How, 
for  example,  are  the  rich  and  the  poor  to  meet  together 
in  the  same  house  of  worship  when  circumstances  have 
driven  their  habitual  residences  much  more  than  a 
Sabbath-day's  journey  apart  ?  Is  it  quite  fair  to  say 
that  it  is  the  architecture,  the  upholstery,  the  millinery, 
of  a  "  fashionable  up-town  church  "  which  keeps  the 


154 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


poor  out  of  it  ?  or  to  assume  that  a  "  free-pew  system  " 
is  all  that  is  needed  to  bring  the  poor  into  it  ?  The 
building  might  be  as  barren  of  architectural  effects  as 
the  early  colonial  churches  ;  the  pews  might  be  bare 
boards,  and  open  to  all  the  world ;  the  members  might 
limit  their  wardrobes  to  the  dress  of  Sisters  of  Charity; 
but  the  poor  would  not  come  in.  Even  the  region  in 
which  the  building  is  placed  is  almost  a  terra  incognita 
to  the  poor  ;  they  live  many  squares  to  the  southward, 
or  off  on  the  East  or  the  West  side;  the  public  opinion  of 
the  up-town  church,  on  such  a  subject  as  that  of  spend- 
ing Sunday  at  Coney  Island  or  up  the  Hudson,  has  no 
interest  or  importance  to  them ;  and  many  of  them 
have  personal  objections  even  to  the  substituted  re- 
lationship of  the  mission  church.  If  the  rich  will  not 
go  to  the  mission  church,  and  the  poor  will  not  go  to 
the  up-town  church,  how  is  the  widening  chasm  be- 


tween the  two  classes  to  be  closed  or  bridged  ?  That 
is  the  problem  which  is  one  of  the  results  of  the  mod- 
ern development  of  cities,  particularly  in  our  Own 
country. 

Our  purpose  is  not  to  suggest  any  solution  of  the 
problem,  only  to  ask  attention  to  the  cumulative  natural 
forces  which  tend  to  make  it  continually  more  difficult 
of  solution  for  the  future.  Hardly  any  question  of  our 
times  better  deserves  attention.  One  need  not  even  be 
a  believer  in  Christianity  to  appreciate  its  gravity  ;  it  is 
only  necessary  that  he  should  appreciate  the  part  which 
Christianity  has  hitherto  played,  merely  as  a  social 
force,  in  Germanic  development.  The  segregation  of 
the  people  into  classes  is  always  a  peril  in  a  democracy  ; 
will  it  be  made  less  noxious  by  the  failure  of  a  social 
force  which  for  so  many  centuries  has  been  preaching 
the  equality  of  man  ? 


OPEN     LETTERS. 


The  G.  A.  R.  as  seen  from  the  Inside. 

IN  1874  a  Massachusetts  soldier,  General  Charles 
Devens,  addressing  the  National  Encampment  of  the 
Grand  Army  of  the  Republic  as  its  fourth  Commander- 
in-Chief,  spoke  warmly  of  the  plans  and  aims  of  the 
new  order,  and  his  words,  though  intended  only  for 
the  hour  when  they  were  spoken,  served  as  an  outline 
for  the  future  of  the  fraternity  of  veterans.  He  said 
that  if  old  schoolmates  and  classmates  delight  to 
keep  up  the  happy  ties  of  former  days,  surely  that 
affection  which  unites  men  who  have  suffered  together 
must  be  no  ordinary  one.  Soldiers  cannot  be  insen- 
sible to  the  merits  of  comrades  who  stood  with  them 
in  the  ranks  of  war,  and  upon  whose  fidelity  and 
courage  their  own  lives  often  depended,  and  it  would 
prove  a  grateful  duty  to  do  justice  to  the  memory  of 
those  who  have  fallen,  and  to  guard  the  welfare  of  the 
living,  also.  Whatever  the  public  may  do,  he  contin- 
ued, either  through  general  or  State  laws,  for  the  sur- 
vivors who  become  dependent,  there  must  still  remain 
many  cases  calling  for  individual  assistance  from  pri- 
vate hands,  and  the  associated  veterans,  while  strength- 
ening and  brightening  the  friendship  that  began  in  the 
ranks,  would  support  those  private  charities  of  which 
the  distressed  and  broken  might  be  in  need. 

The  views  of  General  Devens  were  the  popular  ones 
at  that  time  among  those  who  adhered  to  the  associa- 
tion, but  the  movement  was  just  emerging  from  the 
experimental  stage,  and  the  veterans  generally  consid- 
ered its  future  as  uncertain.  At  the  present  date  the 
Grand  Army  has  probably  reached  its  highest  limit  in 
point  of  numbers  and  influence,  and  its  record  has 
been  made  chiefly  within  the  last  fifteen  or  sixteen 
years.  The  six  thousand  posts  that  now  constitute  it 
are  so  many  local  clubs  devoted  to  those  deeds  of 
friendliness  outlined  by  General  Devens,  and  which  are 
symbolized  in  the  well-known  motto,  Fraternity,  Char- 
ity, Loyalty.  The  posts  of  the  Grand  Army  owe  their 
existence  entirely  to  the  impulse  of  the  veterans  who 
maintain  them,  and  are  located  almost  wholly  in  the 
northern  belt  of  States  extending  to,  and  across,  the 
Missouri  River,  and  on  the  Pacific  coast.  In  the  older 
communities,  and  more  especially,  perhaps,  in  the  great 


cities,  liberal  provisions  for  relief  have  been  called  out 
by  the  numerous  cases  of  destitution,  while  the  multi- 
tude of  social  attractions  in  these  localities  have  in- 
clined the  veterans  to  sociability  in  their  gatherings, 
and  works  of  charity  and  fraternal  enjoyments  now 
distinguish  the  order  in  the  East.  In  the  newer  com- 
munities the  question  of  relief  is  regulated  by  the 
urgency  of  the  need  and  the  means  that  are  at  com- 
mand to  meet  it ;  but  there  fraternity  has  the  deeper 
meaning,  and  it  becomes  on  occasions  another  mystic 
tie,  showing  its  power  alike  in  public  and  commercial 
circles,  and  in  social  life.  Loyalty  is  a  factor  that  ad- 
mits of  no  variableness,  since  every  one  who  claims  the 
privilege  of  the  order,  or  receives  any  of  its  benefits, 
must  have  been  a  Union  soldier,  or  must  be  known  to 
have  a  dependent  relation  to  one  who  wore  the  blue. 
The  G.  A.  R.  organization  is  shaped  after  the  plan 
of  an  enthusiast,  Dr.  B.  F.  Stephenson,  who  organized 
the  first  local  society,  or  post,  at  Decatur,  Illinois,  in 
1866.  Dr.  Stephenson  had  been  a  surgeon  in  the 
Western  army,  and  having  while  yet  in  the  service  con- 
ceived the  idea  of  forming  an  association  of  old  com- 
rades when  the  war  should  end,  he  began  the  agitation 
in  1865  by  correspondence  with  his  former  camp  asso- 
ciates. As  a  result  of  this  agitation  a  ritual  was  pre- 
pared from  models  taken  from  the  Masons  and  the 
Odd  Fellows,  and  Post  No.  1,  Department  of  Illinois, 
was  instituted.  Although  it  was  intended  by  the 
founders  to  make  the  movement  a  national  one,  the 
causes  which  led  to  the  rapid  growth  of  the  order 
throughout  the  North  were  quite  outside  of  those  that 
were  operating  from  the  little  center  at  Decatur, 
Illinois.  By  1866,  in  several  States  the  Union  veterans 
had  already  formed  associations  for  mutual  benefit. 
Kansas  had  a  "Veteran  Brotherhood";  Wisconsin, 
several  independent  Soldiers'  and  Sailors'  leagues ; 
Massachusetts,  a  "  Grand  Union  Army  and  Navy 
Veterans'  "  association,  and  a  "  Soldiers'  and  Sailors' 
Union";  New  York,  a  "Soldiers'  and  Sailors' 
Union  ";  Pennsylvania,  an  association  called  the  "  Boys 
in  Blue,"  and  Connecticut,  a  "United  Service  Club." 
The  avowed  object  of  all  these  societies  was  the 
advancement  of  the  true  interests  of  the  soldier;  in 
other  words,  the  accomplishment  of  a  work  of  brother- 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


155 


hood.  The  problem  was  a  difficult  one,  especially  as 
the  meetings  were  held  in  open  convention;  and  expe- 
rience gained  in  other  fraternities  suggested  to  the 
veterans  that  they  abandon  the  convention  method, 
unite  under  a  strong  vow,  and  adopt  a  system  of  in- 
struction. In  the  winter  of  1866-67,  the  Grand  Army 
of  the  Republic,  which  had  started  out  with  those  feat- 
ures, a  solemn  oath,  and  an  impressive  ritual,  was 
brought  to  the  attention  of  the  soldiers  throughout  the 
North,  and  the  veteran  societies  then  existing  were 
rapidly  changed  into  posts  and  departments  of  "that 
order.  The  idea  was  very  popular,  and  at  the  second 
annual  encampment  of  the  order,  held  at  Philadelphia 
in  January,  1868,  there  were  representatives  from 
twenty-one  States.  The  strength  of  the  movement  lay 
in  the  West,  and  the  delegates  from  Illinois,  Indiana, 
and  Ohio  constituted  one-half  of  the  assembly.  An 
Illinois  veteran,  General  John  A.  Logan,  was  elected 
commander-in-chief.  This  encampment  was  success- 
ful, and  decided  two  very  important  questions  for  the 
new  association  of  veterans.  It  would  be  national  and 
absorb  all  others  ;  it  would  be  secret  and  non-partisan. 
The  exact  lines  on  which  so  vast  an  organization  would 
develop  could  not  be  fixed  by  resolutions  or  by-laws. 
Dr.  Stephenson's  ideas  of  secrecy  and  fraternity  were 
sustained  by  a  large  following  in  the  West,  and  the 
rules  and  the  ritual  that  had  originated  with  him  were 
retained  with  some  amendment.  Some  common  impulse 
was  needed,  and  it  was  found  at  length  in  the  noble  in- 
stinct of  charity.  The  general  regulations  which  were 
formed  at  that  time  made  it  binding  upon  each  post  to 
have  a  relief  fund  for  the  assistance  of  needy  veterans 
and  their  widows  and  orphans.  1 

In  some  favored  localities  the  relief  fund  was  looked 
upon  at  first  as  a  sentimental  hobby  that  would  never 
be  called  into  real  service;  but  it  appears  from  the  re- 
ports of  the  Department  of  New  York  for  1872,  that 
the  posts  of  the  State  had  generally  founded  such  funds, 
and  put  them  to  practical  use.  Some  of  the  posts  in 
large  cities  had  paid  out  in  relief  during  the  year 
amounts  averaging  ten  dollars  for  each  post  member, 
and  the  surplus  on  hand  for  relief  in  these  posts  aver- 
aged twenty  dollars  for  each  member.  The  amount 
reported  officially  for  the  whole  country  during  three 
years  past  has  averaged  nearly  $250,000  each  year, 
and  an  equal  sum,  by  a  narrow  estimate,  is  distributed 
in  a  form  of  private  charity  that  is  not  entered  upon 
the  post  records.  The  three  annual  reports  referred 
to  also  show  that  about  one-third  of  the  beneficiaries 
during  those  years  did  not  belong  to  the  order.  It  is 
but  just  to  state  here,  too,  that  so  far  as  the  members 
of  the  order  are  themselves  concerned  in  receiving 
relief  from  the  post  funds,  it  is  in  a  large  measure  the 
return  of  "bread  cast  upon  the  waters."  The  recipi- 
ent has  at  some  time,  and  perhaps  regularly,  and  for 
a  long  period,  contributed  to  the  fund  which  succors  him 
in  his  need. 

The  committees  having  in  charge  the  work  of  relief 

1  The  application  of  the  fund  is  not  restricted  to  members  of 
the  order,  and  a  call  is  made  at  each  post  meeting  on  behalf  of 
any  soldier  or  his  dependents  who  may  need  relief.  The  methods 
for  sustaining  the  fund  are  left  to  the  selection  of  the  posts. 
Usually  it  is  done  by  direct  donations  and  the  use  of  balances 
in  the  post  treasury.  The  amount  of  fees  payable  upon  initiation 
to  a  post  or  upon  transfer  from  one  post  to  another,  and  also  of 
the  annual  dues  for  membership,  is  determined  by  each  society, 
and  in  addition  to  these  revenues,  which  are  regular,  the  relief 
fund  may  be  increased  by  a  general  assessment. 

2  It  is  a  fact  also  not  generally  known,  that  any  member,  or  post, 


act  also  as  employment  committees.  In  large  cities, 
particularly  in  New  York,  Brooklyn,  Boston,  and  Buf- 
falo, there  is  a  central  employment  bureau,  and  all 
posts  within  the  limits  cooperate  with  it.  Relief  com- 
mittees generally  have  full  power  to  aid  all  worthy  ap- 
plicants who  are  in  immediate  distress,  and  if  any 
applicants  are  entitled  to  admission  to  institutions  of 
relief  the  committees  can  at  discretion  place  them 
there.  The  "  Woman's  Relief  Corps  "  and  the  "  Ladies 
of  the  G.  A.  R. "have  for  a  number  of  years  supple- 
mented the  labors  of  the  Grand  Army  in  the  work  of 
immediate  relief.  The  Relief  Corps  has  expended  an 
average  of  $70,000  a  year  for  three  years  past.  The 
"  Ladies  of  the  G.  A.  R."  is  an  independent  society,  de- 
voted to  special  work  in  attending  suffering  comrades 
of  the  Grand  Army. 

In  some  States  where  soldiers  homes  were  needed, 
the  Grand  Army  founded  them  before  asking  help  from 
the  State  governments. 

Aside  from  the  distinct  features  of  benevolent  work, 
there  are  attractions  in  the  G.  A.  R.  for  men  who  are 
eligible.  The  vow,  with  the  exception  of  what  it  de- 
mands for  fraternity  and  charity,  is  an  exceedingly 
simple  one  for  a  United  States  citizen  to  make,  and  it 
leaves  entire  freedom  in  politics  and  religion  and  in 
all  civic  and  social  duties.2 

There  has  been  scarcely  a  period  in  the  career  of 
the  Grand  Army  not  marked  by  progress,  and  from 
time  to  time  it  has  overcome  the  evils  that  have  threat- 
ened its  usefulness  and  stability,  the  chief  of  which  has 
been  the  desire  of  partisans  and  others  to  use  it  for 
political  or  private  ends.  The  personnel  of  the  order 
has  been  changed  throughout  many  times,  and  the 
earliest  adherents  would  hardly  recognize  the  methods 
at  work  to-day. 

Of  the  features  that  have  been  instituted  in  advance  of 
the  original  purposes  of  the  society  the  most  prominent, 
and  probably  the  most  important,  is  memorial  work. 
The  Memorial  Day  is  now  honored  in  nearly  every 
Northern  State;  but  the  chief  feature  of  the  observance, 
the  marching  columns  of  veterans,  will  soon  decline, 
and  then  the  festival  will  lose  its  impressiveness.  Some 
more  enduring  memorial  will  be  required  to  perpetuate 
the  story  of  the  war.  In  many  places  the  Grand  Army 
has  undertaken  to  build  monuments  and  memorial 
halls,  and  the  preservation  of  war  relics  and  historical 
documents.  The  vast  work  of  the  Gettysburg  Battle- 
field Memorial  Association  has  been  inspired  and  sup- 
ported by  veterans  and  posts  of  the  order.  Ohio  has 
several  memorial  buildings;  Indiana,  a  $25,000  monu- 
ment; Vermont,  a  monument  under  way.  Rhode 
Island  is  moving  for  a  memorial  hall,  while  New  York 
is  trying  to  secure  a  monument  in  Central  Park,  and  also 
to  erect  a  Grant  Memorial.  The  Department  of  New 
York  has  secured  a  room  in  the  Capitol  at  Albany  for 
the  preservation  of  documents  having  historical  value 
and  of  relics  of  the  battlefield  and  of  the  service.3 

The  labors  of  the  Grand  Army  veterans  have  been 

or  department,  is  free  to  criticize  and  to  oppose  the  action  of  any 
committee,  local,  State,  or  national. 

:!  The  efforts  in  this  direction  of  the  Military  Order  of  the 
Loyal  Legion,  a  veteran  society  composed  of  ex-officers  of  the 
Union  army,  may  be  appropriately  mentioned  here.  The  District 
Commanderics  of  Washington,  Boston,  and  Philadelphia,  and  the 
Grand  Commandery  of  Ohio,  are  doing  much  to  perpetuate  the 
glory  of  American  soldiers,  and  eventually  to  elucidate  historical 
points.  The  Ohio  Commandery  published  recently  a  valuable 
collection  of  papers  read  before  the  society  under  the  title  of 
"  Sketches  of  War  History." 


156 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


so  important  in  results  that  the  question  often  arises 
whether  the  work  shall  rest  where  they  leave  it,  or 
whether  it  shall  be  handed  down  to  a  younger  gener- 
ation with  like  impulses  of  charity  and  patriotism.  The 
"  Sons  of  Veterans,"  an  independent  military  order  now 
numbering  about  eighty  thousand  cadets,  are  prepar- 
ing to  receive  the  mantle  whenever  their  elders  shall 
summon  them  as  worthy  to  bear  it. 

George  L.  Kilmer. 

Martial  Epitaphs. 

A  stroll  through  any  of  our  national  cemeteries 
will  suggest  the  idea  that  the  War  Department  has 
official  knowledge  of  but  one  elegiac  poem.  Quota- 
tions from  this  one  poem  are  repeated  over  and  over, 
at  the  gateways  and  on  painted  boards  at  the  turns  of 
the  avenues  among  the  graves.  In  Antietam  cemetery 
one  might  pick  up  and  put  together  almost  the  entire 
production  from  these  inscriptions.  Some  stanzas  are 
striking  in  imagery,  as  well  as  perfect  in  technique,  es- 
pecially the  quatrain  oftenest  quoted : 

On  Fame's  eternal  camping-ground 

Their  silent  tents  are  spread, 
But  Glory  guards,  with  solemn  round, 

The  bivouac  of  the  dead. 

But  the  poem  —  at  least  for  the  purpose  to  which  it 
has  been  so  ostentatiously  put  — has  a  radical  and  fatal 
fault.  It  lacks  all  moral  character.  Its  sole  argument 
is,  These  men  were  killed  in  battle,  therefore  they  are 
to  be  glorified,  no  matter  whether  they  were  making 
righteous  or  unrighteous  war.  The  elegy  would  be 
quite  as  appropriate  for  Tecumseh's  mercenary  braves 
at  the  Thames,  or  the  Sepoys  that  were  blown  to  shreds 
at  Lucknow,  or  the  Zulus  that  fell  at  Rorke's  Drift,  or 
the  Tae-pings  at  Canton,  or  the  Mahdi's  dead  in  the 
Soudan.  You  may  chant  the  same  dirge  for  the  Dyaks 
and  the  Maoris  that  fell  in  their  murderous  forays. 

If  this  were  the  best  we  could  say  for  the  men  that 
saved  the  Union,  however  musical  the  lines  in  which 
we  express  it,  I,  as  an  American  citizen,  should  be 
heartily  ashamed  of  American  letters ;  though  we 
hardly  had  a  right  to  expect  more  from  this  poem, 
since  it  was  written  to  commemorate  volunteer  soldiers 
who  had  lost  their  lives  in  an  unholy  war,  that  with 
Mexico  —  known  to  be  so  at  the  time,  and  since  pro- 
nounced so  by  the  most  illustrious  man  that  took  part 
in  it  (see  Grant's  "  Memoirs,"  Vol.  I.,  p.  53).  Let 
me  broaden  the  proposition.  If  the  cause  of  the  Con- 
federacy was  just,  or  if  its  advocates -thought  it  was  just, 
this  poem,  it  seems  to  me,  is  not  worthy  of  being 
quoted  over  the  graves  of  those  who  fell  in  the  vain 
attempt  to  establish  it. 

Had  the  Quartermaster-General  taken  the  trouble  to 
inquire  of  some  one  conversant  with  American  poetry, 
he  might  have  learned  that  there  is  no  lack  of  appro- 
priate verses  having  both  poetic  merit  and  moral  char- 
acter, with  which  he  could  at  least  have  given  some 
variety  to  the  literature  of  our  national  cemeteries. 
Here  is  an  instance  : 

They  marched  and  never  halted, 

They  scaled  the  parapet, 
The  triple  lines  assaulted, 

And  paid  without  regret 
The  final  debt. 


The  debt  of  slow  accruing 

A  guilty  nation  made, 
The  debt  of  evil  doing, 

Of  justice  long  delayed, 
'T  was  this  they  paid. 

On  fields  where  Strife  held  riot, 

And  Slaughter  fed  his  hounds, 
Where  came  no  sense  of  quiet, 

Nor  any  gentle  sounds, 

They  made  their  rounds. 

They  wrought  without  repining, 

Till,  weary  watches  o'er, 
They  passed  the  bounds  confining 

Our  green  familiar  shore, 
Forevermore. 

The  poem  from  which  these  stanzas  are  taken  was 
written  by  Theodore  P.  Cook,  a  journalist  of  Utica, 
who  served  in  the  14th  New  York  Artillery  during  the 
civil  war.  Here  are  eight  lines  from  a  poem  written 
on  the  eve  of  the  battle  of  Fredericksburg  by  Michael 
O'Connor,  a  sergeant  in  the  140th  New  York  Infantry, 
who  died  in  the  service  : 

May  all  our  boys  who  fall  be  found 
Where  men  lie  thickest  at  the  front, 
Where  brave  hearts  bore  the  battle's  brunt, 

Contesting  every  inch  of  ground  ; 

Though  well  we  know  dead  men  to  be 
But  broken  tools  that  Freedom  flings 
Aside,  alas !  as  useless  things, 

In  carving  out  her  destiny. 

From  Henry  Howard  Brownell,  one  of  the  few 
famous  poets  that  have  actually  participated  in  the 
battles  they  have  described,  might  be  chosen  several 
appropriate  passages  —  unless,  indeed,  his  poetry  is 
too  vigorously  loyal  for  the  temper  of  the  time.  He 
was  an  ensign  on  the  flagship  Hartford  when  she  led 
the  fight  in  Mobile  Bay.  Dr.  Holmes  called  him  "our 
battle  laureate,"  and  wrote  an  article  for  "The  Atlantic 
Monthly"  to. prove  that  he  deserved  the  title.  These 
stanzas  are  from  the  close  of  Brownell's  "  Bay  Fight  " : 

O  Mother  Land,  this  weary  life 

We  led,  we  lead,  is  'long  of  thee; 
Thine  the  strong  agony  of  strife, 

And  thine  the  lonely  sea. 

Ah,  ever,  when  with  storm  sublime 

Dread  Nature  clears  our  murky  air, 
Thus  in  the  crash  of  falling  crime 

Some  lesser  guilt  must  share. 

To-day  the  Dahlgren  and  the  drum 

Are  dread  apostles  of  his  name  ; 
His  kingdom  here  can  only  come 

By  chrism  of  blood  and  flame. 

But  never  fear  a  victor  foe  — 

Thy  children's  hearts  are  strong  and  high ; 

Nor  mourn  too  fondly  —  well  they  know 
On  deck  or  field  to  die. 

Nor  shalt  thou  want  one  willing  breath, 
Though,  ever  smiling  'round  the  brave, 

The  blue  sea  bear  us  on  to  death, 
The  green  were  one  wide  grave. 

For  a  briefer  inscription,  four  lines  from  a  poem  by 
Rossiter  W.  Raymond,  who  served  as  a  staff-officer, 
would  be  appropriate : 

Whether  we  fight  or  whether  we  fall 

By  saber-stroke  or  rifle-ball, 
The  hearts  of  the  free  will  remember  us  yet, 

And  our  country,  our  country  will  never  forget ! 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


157 


Benjamin  F.  Taylor,  the  poet  and  essayist,  had  a 
son  in  one  of  the  Western  armies,  and  himself  followed 
that  army  as  a  press  correspondent.  These  lines,  from 
his  "  Cavalry  Charge,"  are  picturesque,  sympathetic, 
and  significant : 

There  are  ragged  gaps  in  the  walls  of  blue, 

Where  the  iron  surge  rolled  heavily  through, 

That  the  Colonel  builds  with  a  word  again 

As  he  cleaves  the  din  with  his  "  Close  up,  men !  " 

And  the  groan  torn  out  from  the  blackened  lips, 

And  the  prayer  doled  slow  with  the  crimson  drips, 

And  the  beaming  look  in  the  dying  eye 

As  under  the  cloud  the  stars  go  by. 

But  his  soul  marched  on,  the  Captain  said, 

For  the  Boy  in  Blue  can  never  be  dead. 

Richard  Realf  served  for  three  years  in  the  88th 
Illinois  Infantry,  and.  some  of  his  lyrics  were  written 
in  the  field,  where  he  won  promotion  by  his  skill  and 
gallantry.  He  was  a  friend  of  Lytle,  the  soldier  and 
poet,  when  the  general  fell  at  Chickamauga.  Here 
are  two  striking  stanzas  from  Realf: 

I  think  the  soul  of  Cromwell  kissed 

The  soul  of  Baker,  when, 
With  red  sword  in  his  bloody  fist, 

He  died  among  his  men. 
I  think,  too,  that  when  Winthrop  fell, 

His  face  toward  the  foe, 
John  Hampden  shouted  "  All  is  well !  " 

Above  that  overthrow. 

And  Lyon,  making  green  and  fair 

The  places  where  he  trod, 
And  Ellsworth,  sinking  on  the  stair 

Whereby  he  passed  to  God, 
And  those  whose  names  are  only  writ 

In  hearts,  instead  of  scrolls, 
Still  show  the  dark  of  earth  uplit 

With  shining  human  souls. 

Edmund  Clarence  Stedman,  who  was  with  the  Army 
of  the  Potomac,  wrote  perhaps  a  dozen  martial  poems. 
From  his  "  Gettysburg  "  might  be  quoted : 

The  bells  that  peal  our  triumph  forth  anon  shall  toll  the  brave, 
Above  whose  heads  the  cross  must  stand,  the  hillside  grasses  wave. 
Alas  !  alas  !  the  trampled  grass  shall  thrive  another  year, 
The  blossoms  on  the  apple-boughs  with  each  new  spring  appear; 
But,  when  our  patriot  soldiers  fall,  Earth  gives  them  up  to  God ; 
Though  their  souls  rise  in  clearer  skies,  their  forms  are  as  the  sod  ; 
Only  their  names  and  deeds  are  ours  —  but,  for  a  century  yet, 
The  dead  who  fell  at  Gettysburg  the  land  shall  not  forget. 

These  lines  are  from  George  H.  Boker's  "  Black 
Regiment,"  and  would  be  eminently  appropriate  in  a 
cemetery  where  the  dusky  heroes  of  Olustee  and  Fort 
Wagner  are  represented : 

"  Freedom  !  "  their  battle-cry  — 
"  Freedom  !  or  leave  to  die  !  " 
Ah !  and  they  meant  the  word, 
Not  as  with  us  't  is  heard, 
Not  a  mere  party  shout. 
They  gave  their  spirits  out, 
Trusted  the  end  to  God, 
And  on  the  gory  sod 
Rolled  in  triumphant  blood. 

During  the  last  year  of  the  war  Edna  Dean  Proctor 
contributed  to  the  publication  of  a  sanitary  fair  a  noble 
poem  from  which  I  take  these  stanzas  : 

Mother  Earth,  are  the  heroes  dead  ? 

Do  they  thrill  the  soul  of  the  years  no  more  ? 
Are  the  gleaming  snows  and  the  poppies  red 

All  that  is  left  of  the  brave  of  yore  ? 


Are  there  none  to  fight  as  Theseus  fought 
Far  in  the  young  world's  misty  dawn  ? 

Or  to  teach  as  the  grey-haired  Nestor  taught? 
Mother  Earth,  are  the  heroes  gone? 

Gone?    In  a  grander  form  they  rise ! 

Dead  ?  We  may  clasp  their  hands  in  ours, 
And  catch  the  light  of  their  clearer  eyes, 

And  wreathe  their  brows  with  immortal  flowers- 
Wherever  a  noble  deed  is  done, 

'T  is  the  pulse  of  a  hero's  heart  is  stirred ; 
Wherever  the  Right  has  a  triumph  won, 

There  are  the  heroes'  voices  heard. 

A  little  "  Dirge  for  a  Soldier,"  by  the  Rev.  Samuel 
P.  Merrill,  which  has  been  much  admired,  contains 
these  lines  : 

The  heart  so  leal  and  the  hand  of  steel 

Are  palsied  aye  for  strife, 
But  the  noble  deed  and  the  patriot's  meed 

Are  left  of  the  hero's  life. 
The  bugle  call  and  the  battle  ball 

Again  shall  rouse  him  never; 
He  fought  and  fell,  he  served  us  well; 

His  furlough  lasts  forever. 

John  G.  Whittier  was  in  his  fifty-fourth  year  when 
the  civil  war  began,  and  could  not  have  taken  part  in 
it  even  had  he  not  been  a  Quaker.  But  as  he  had  been 
mobbed  for  promulgating  antislavery  doctrines,  on 
one  occasion  barely  escaping  with  his  life,  he  may 
fairly  be  said  to  have  been  under  fire  in  the  prelimi- 
nary skirmishes.  He  wrote  some  of  the  finest  poems 
that  were  inspired  by  the  war,  and  this  passage  from 
one  of  them  might  properly  find  a  place  among  our 
public  epitaphs : 

The  future's  gain 
Is  certain  as  God's  truth ;  but  meanwhile  pain 
Is  bitter,  and  tears  are  salt :  our  voices  take 
A  sober  tone  ;  our  very  household  songs 
Are  heavy  with  a  nation's  griefs  and  wrongs  ; 
And  innocent  mirth  is  chastened  for  the  sake 
Of  the  brave  hearts  that  nevermore  shall  beat, 
'  The  eyes  that  smile  no  more,  the  unreturning  feet. 

James  Russell  Lowell's  "  Commemoration  Ode " 
necessarily  comes  to  mind  in  this  connection.  It  has 
several  passages  that  would  grandly  decorate  our  na- 
tional cemeteries,  perhaps  none  better  than  this  : 

Many  loved  Truth,  and  lavished  life's  best  oil 

Amid  the  dust  of  books  to  find  her, 
Content  at  last,  for  guerdon  of  their  toil, 
With  the  cast  mantle  she  hath  left  behind  her. 

Many  in  sad  faith  sought  for  her, 

Many  with  crossed  hands  sighed  for  her; 

But  these  our  brothers  fought  for  her, 

At  life's  dear  peril  wrought  for  her, 

So  loved  her  that  they  died  for  her, 

Tasting  the  raptured  fleetness 

Of  her  divine  completeness: 

Their  higher  instinct  knew 
Those  love  her  best  who  to  themselves  are  true, 
And  what  they  dare  to  dream  of  dare  to  do. 

As  I  rehearse  one  after  another  of  these  living  lyrics, 
the  land  seems  as  full  of  poetry  to-day  as  it  was  full  of 
carnage  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago.  If  the  War  De- 
partment wants  poetry,  it  need  not  make  a  requisition 
beyond  its  own  rolls.  The  very  men  that  won  the  great 
battle  have  themselves  furnished  the  best  elegies  for 
the  sacred  dust  of  their  fallen  comrades. 

Rossi  tcr  Johnson. 


i5* 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


Public  Relief. 


EMPLOYMENT    BUREAU. 


THE  BUFFALO  "GUARD  OF  HONOR. 


The  proper  administration  of  public  and  private 
charity  concerns  not  only  the  Church,  but  the  philan- 
thropic men  and  women  of  our  larger  cities.  In  the 
history  of  Christianity  there  never  has  been  so  much 
done  for  the  amelioration  of  suffering  as  now,  and  the 
weak,  the  sick,  and  the  indigent  are  cared  for  in  the 
best  ways  that  experience  and  good  judgment  can  sug- 
gest. With  every  possible  care,  however,  there  is  a 
class  which  by  misrepresentation  draws  a  subsistence 
from  charitable  people  and  receives  its  entire  support 
through  the  agency  of  clever  untruth.  There  is  rarely 
a  day  passes  that  the  impositions  of  women  who  belong 
to  this  class  are  not  made  plain  to  some  clergyman  or 
lay-worker  among  the  poor,  and  many  an  avenue  of 
charity  is  closed  after  some  such  experience.  With 
the  most  earnest  effort  it  is  impossible  to  control  this 
condition  of  things,  and' relief  societies  gratefully  re- 
ceive any  suggestions  which  may  assist  in  overcoming 
the  evil.  The  institution  of  charity  organizations 
has  controlled  public  begging  in  a  large  degree,  but 
the  impostor  still  finds  means  to  feed  upon  the  com- 
munity. The  statistics  furnished  by  almshouses,  pris- 
ons, and  penitentiaries  show  also  that  a  large  number 
of  men  throughout  the  country  have  no  visible  means 
of  support,  and  from  either  drink  or  dissipation  become 
dangerous  paupers.  These  various  classes  are  grouped 
under  one  head  and  called  "  tramps,"  which  is  a 
synonym  for  lazy,  degraded,  though  often  clever,  men. 
The  peculiarities  of  these  men  are  that  they  have  lost 
all  moral  sense,  and  evince  a  keenness  of  mind  in  carry- 
ing out  their  plans  which  would,  if  directed  in  another 
channel,  provide  them  with  a  competent  livelihood.  It 
is  to  the  condition  and  circumstances  of  these  "  tramps  " 
that  the  Church  and  charitable  institutions  need  to  di- 
rect their  best  attention.  They  become  the  accessories 
of  men  who  would  destroy  the  law  and  order  of  every 
country,  and  especially  of  our  own.  How  to  reach 
these  men,  how  to  inspire  in  them  a  shame  of  their 
calling  and  direct  them  into  a  better  life,  is  a  serious 
problem.  If,  therefore,  any  experience  justifies  the 
belief  that  a  reform  can  be  instituted,  let  it  be  incor- 
porated in  the  practical  workings  of  every  charitable 
effort. 

There  exists  in  the  city  of  Buffalo  an  institution 
known  as  the  "  Guard  of  Honor  Christian  Institute," 
composed  entirely  of  workingmen.  This  organization 
owns  a  building  the  use  of  which  is  to  provide  accom- 
modation for  those  who  need  lodging  at  night  other 
than  that  offered  by  the  station-house.  Applicants  for 
this  charity  are  received  between  the  hours  of  seven 
and  ten  o'clock  in  the  evening,  but  they  are  not  required 
to  show  any  card  of  recommendation  or  io  pay  any 
money.  They  are  taken  into  the  building  at  the  dis- 
cretion of  the  superintendent,  who  is  himself  a  work- 
ingman  and  occupied  during  the  day.  Each  applicant 
is  obliged  to  take  a  bath,  and  before  retiring  to  take 
off  his  clothes  and  put  on  a  night-shirt.  When  these 
men  are  in  bed  the  superintendent  visits  every  room 
and  sees  that  this  rule  is  strictly  enforced.  At  six 
o'clock  in  the  morning  these  "  lodgers  "  are  called  and 
assembled  in  the  sitting-room  of  the  institution.  They 
are  then  each  furnished  with  a  card  which  reads  as 
follows : 


GUARD    OF   HONOR    CHRISTIAN     INSTITUTE. 

The  bearer,  M —  ,  has  applied   to  the  Guard  of 

Honor  for  work.    He  says  he  understands and  has 

had  experience.  Should  you  employ  him,  please  use  the 
inclosed  postal  to  inform  us  of  the  fact,  so  that  the  soci- 
ety can  keep  a  record  of  his  faithfulness  or  unfaithfulness. 
Should  you  not  be  able  to  employ  him,  please  sign  the 
name  of  the  firm  on  the  blue  card  as  a  guarantee  that  he 
is  making  serious  effort  to  procure  work.  The  society 
knows  nothing  of  the  character  or  capabilities  of  the 
bearer,  except  that  he  appears  quiet  and  sober,  and 
seems  anxious  to  secure  employment. 

(Signed,)  , 

Committee. 

In  addition,  the  men  are  given  a  second  card,  bear- 
ing this  printed  certificate  at  the  top  : 

This  is  to  certify  that  the  bearer  has  applied  to  us  for 
employment. 

Equipped  with  these  the  men  are  turned  out  of  the 
building,  and  the  institution  isclosed  until  seven  o'clock 
in  the  evening.  Many  of  the  men  who  go  out  in  the 
morning  return  at  night  and  deliver  up  to  the  superin- 
tendent the  cards  given  them.  He  examines  what  is 
known  as  the  "blue  card,"  to  see  how  many  names 
are  signed  upon  it  as  a  guarantee  of  the  faithful  efforts 
of  the  man  to  find  work.  If  these  cards  do  not  contain 
a  sufficient  number  of  signatures,  the  man  is  told  that 
unless  he  makes  better  effort  on  the  coming  day  he 
will  not  be  received  into  the  institution  at  night.  At 
nine  o'clock  in  the  evening  a  service  of  prayer  is  held, 
conducted  by  a  workingman,  a  member  of  the  organ- 
ization, and  each  member  shares  in  this  duty.  It  is 
during  this  hour  that  probably  the  strongest  influence 
for  good  is  exercised  upon  these  wayfarers.  They  are 
appealed  to  by  men  who  understand  precisely  their 
present  conditions,  and  who  from  experience  compre- 
hend the  various  causes  which  have  led  to  their  pres- 
ent condition.  The  cynic  believes  that  all  spark  of 
honor  dies  within  the  breast  of  a  man  when  he  accepts 
charity  and  allows  himself,  through  weakness  of  one 
kind  or  another,  to  become  a  pauper.  This  is  a  mis- 
take. An  appeal  from  a  wealthy,  prosperous  man  to  a 
vagabond  has  very  little  effect,  but  the  direct  questions 
of  one  laborer  to  another  are  usually  answered  truth- 
fully. Herein  lies  an  enormous  power,  and  the  writer, 
after  many  years  of  experience,  has  seen  its  wonderful 
effects.  A  gratifying  percentage  of  those  who  come 
under  the  influence  of  this  body  of  workingmen  are 
inspired  to  change  their  entire  course  of  life  and  be- 
come self-supporting  citizens.  The  plan  has  been  in 
operation  long  enough  to  have  it  thoroughly  tested,  and 
it  can  be  recommended  upon  a  basis  that  has  brought 
forth  the  best  result. 

Before  closing,  the  writer  wishes  strongly  to  depre- 
cate the  custom  of  providing  a  comfortable  "  lounging- 
place  "  for  men  who  will  not  work  unless  they  are  com- 
pelled to  by  hunger  or  cold.  If  a  laboring  man  can 
work  eight  hours  a  day,  the  man  who  is  in  need  of  em- 
ployment and  really  desires  it  should  spend  the  same 
number  of  hours  in  looking  for  work.  This  he  will  not 
do  when  charitable  institutions  and  Christian  associa- 
tions keep  open  house.  The  fear  so  often  expressed, 
that  if  these  places  are  not  open  the  man  will  seek  the 
congenial  society  of  the  saloon,  is  not  well  founded. 
The  saloon-keepers  will  not  have  men  hanging  about 
their  places  of  business  who  have  no  money  to  spend, 


OPEN  LETTERS. 


*59 


and  these  vagrants  perfectly  understand  this.  They 
are,  therefore,  absolutely  compelled  to  seek  work,  and 
every  effort  made  in  this  direction  assists  them  to  throw 
off  the  lethargy  of  laziness.  There  should  not  be  one 
so-called  "  loafing-place  "  in  our  cities,  and  especially 
should  the  Church  and  Christian  institutions  under- 
stand that  the  severe  rule  which  compels  a  man  to  dis- 
cipline himself  is  the  wisest  in  the  end.  The  Guard 
of  Honor  has  often  been  censured  for  turning  the  men 
out  in  the  morning  at  seven  o'clock,  whatever  the 
weather.  Being  an  association  of  workingmen,  it  is 
the  intention  to  make  these  "  lodgers  "  live  by  the  same 
rules  which  control  the  members,  and  the  plan  works 
satisfactorily.  The  society  provides  no  food  except 
broken  crackers,  which  prevent  the  lodger  from  going 
to  bed  hungry.  The  contemplation  of  a  meal  which 
consists  of  cold  water  and  crackers  is  not  sufficient 
inducement  to  a  man  to  neglect  to  work,  but  it  does 
prevent  the  hopelessness  that  accompanies  hunger.  A 
man  coming  drunk  to  the  building  is  usually  taken  in 
for  one  night,  but  he  is  told  in  the  morning  that  if  he 
presents  himself  again  in  the  same  condition  he  will 
be  refused  entrance.  The  knowledge  that  he  will  have 
a  clean  bed,  free  of  charge,  if  he  refrains  from  drink, 
acts  as  a  great  restraint,  and  in  many  instances  it  has 
proved  a  means  of  overcoming  the  habit.  Upon  Sun- 
day the  building  is  open  all  day,  for  a  man- cannot  seek 
employment  then,  and  at  evening  a  meal,  consisting  of 
coffee,  bread  and  butter,  and  cold  beans,  is  served  free 
of  charge  —  proving  to  the  inmate  that  in  enforcing 
strict  rules  the  principles  of  Christianity  are  not 
forgotten. 

Charlotte  Mulligan. 

The  First  Female  College. 

In  the  October  Century,  under  the  caption,  "  A 
New  College  for  Women,"  occur  these  lines  :  "There 
have  been  three  distinctly  marked  stages  in  the 
higher  education  of  women  in  America :  co-education 
pure  and  simple,  first  tested  at  Oberlin,  in  1833  ;  then 
separate  colleges  for  women,  in  which  line  Vassar,  in 
1865,  made  the  first  departure,"!  etc. 

The  charter  for  Oberlin  was,  according  to  a  letter 
from  the  clerk  of  the  Oberlin  Faculty,  dated  March 
13,  1889,  issued  in  1834:  according  to  the  same  au- 
thority, the  first  diploma  to  a  woman  graduated  there 
was  dated  1838;  but  I  have  been  unable  to  obtain 
anywhere  the  name  of  any  woman  who  graduated  at 
Oberlin  in  1838,  or  even  in  1839.  If  no  error  has  been 
made  in  this  matter, —  and  I  do  not  intimate  that  there 
has, —  the  holder  of  the  Oberlin  diploma  is  entitled  to 
the  honor  of  the  first  diploma  ever  issued  to  a  woman, 
and  her  name  should  be  recovered  and  preserved  to 
complete  the  record  of  one  of  the  most  interesting  facts 
in  the  progress  of  civilization. 

But  the  history  of  the  first  female  college  is  less  ob- 
scured, and  is  easy  of  access.  After  an  agitation  of  the 
higher-education-for-women  idea,  extending  through 
fifteen  years,  the  Georgia  legislature  in  1836  chartered 
the  Georgia  Female  College,  and  it  was  built  at  Macon 
at  a  first  cost  of  $80,000. 

1  The  Wesleyan  Female  College  of  Ohio,  incorporated  in  1846, 
the  Mary  Sharp  College,  of  Winchester,  Tenn.,  founded  in  1848, 
and  Elmira  College,  Elmira,  New  York,  which  graduated  its  first 
class  in  1859,  all  long  antedate  Vassar. 


The  State  charter  conferred  full  collegiate  powers 
upon  the  institution.  The  first  faculty  was  made  up 
of  eleven  professors  and  teachers,  and  while  the  course 
does  not  compare  with  that  of  the  same  institution  of 
this  day,  it  was  equal  to  that  afforded  by  most  contempo- 
rary colleges  for  men.  Nor  is  the  standard  of  the  educa- 
tional course  then  of  moment  now.  The  point  of  deepest 
interest  is  the  enlightened  thought  that,  finding  public 
expression  through  legislative  action  and  individual  sub- 
scription, placed  Avoman  upon  equal  footing  with  man. 
This  privilege  was  at  once  taken  advantage  of.  Upon 
the  opening  of  the  college,  January  9,  1839,  ninety 
young  ladies  came  forward  and  were  enrolled.  Eleven 
of  these  had  been  advanced  in  seminaries  to  a  point 
that  permitted  of  their  entry  with  the  senior  class,  and 
in  the  latter  part  of  the  same  year  they  graduated. 
Their  names  were  Misses  C.  E.  Brewer,  Sarah  V. 
Clopton,  Elizabeth  Flournoy,  Ann  E.  Hardeman,  Mar- 
tha F.  Heard,  Julia  M.  Heard,  Sarah  M.  Holt,  Matilda 
J.  Moore,  Harriet  M.  Ross,  Mary  L.  Ross,  and  Mar- 
garet A.  Speer.  These  are  family  names  honorably 
connected  with  social  and  public  life  in  Georgia  for 
upward  of  a  century. 

When  this  class  of  eleven  girls  was  drawn  up  in  line 
to  receive  their  diplomas,  the  advantage  of  alphabeti- 
cal position  brought  Miss  Brewer  the  first.  Into  her 
hands,  therefore,  went,  it  is  confidently  believed,  the 
first  diploma  issued  by  a  college  exclusively  for 
women  —  the  first  fruits  of  that  growth  which  to-day 
is  productive  of  so  much  for  the  womanhood  of  the 
world.  This  lady,  with  several  of  her  class,  is  still 
living.  In  the  summer  of  1887  a  semi-centennial  cele- 
bration was  held  in  the  chapel  of  the  college,  and  there 
were  gathered  much  of  the  wealth,  beauty,  intellect, 
and  culture  of  the  South.  Upon  this  occasion  the  "  Miss 
Brewer  "  of  nearly  fifty  years  previous,  now  a  gray- 
haired  matron,  Mrs.  C.  E.  Benson  of  Macon,  advanced 
in  front  of  the  trustees,  bearing  in  her  hand  the  very 
document  she  had  received  from  their  predecessors. 
With  a  graceful  little  speech,  she  returned  to  them 
the  diploma  for  preservation  among  the  sacred  relics 
of  the  college,  and  to-day  it  hangs  upon  the  walls,  an 
object  of  deep  interest  to  all  visitors. 

Not  as  pertaining  necessarily  to  the  topic,  but  yet 
of  value  and  interest,  I  beg  to  add  a  few  lines  to  this 
sketch.  The  Georgia  Female  College,  coming  into  con- 
trol of  the  Methodists,  became,  without  interruption  to 
its  course  or  existence,  the  Wesleyan  Female  College. 
Indeed,  the  doors  of  the  institution  have  never  been 
closed  but  thrice  in  its  history  —  two  weeks  during  the 
passing  of  Sherman,  two  days  during  the  occupation 
of  Macon  by  General  Wilson,  and  six  weeks  because 
of  small-pox  in  1873. 

Through  the  generosity  of  George  I.  Seney,  the 
noted  Brooklyn  philanthropist,  the  Wesleyan  College 
was  remodeled  a  few  years  since  at  a  cost  of  $105,000. 

During  the  existence  of  the  college  it  has  sent  forth 
1990  graduates — girls  who  have  gone  into  the  life  of 
the  South.  The  majority  of  these  girls,  naturally,  be- 
longed to  Georgia,  and  to  their  gentle  and  intelligent 
ministry  is  due  perhaps,  more  than  to  any  other  cause, 
the  proud  title  so  justly  won  by  Georgia  —  "The  Em- 
pire State  of  the  South." 

Harry  Stilkoell  Edwards. 


BRIC-A-BRAC. 


The  Evolution  of  a  Dialect  Poem. 
(Original  Form.) 

SERENADE. 

The  stars  and  I  are  awake 

In  the  hush  of  the  noon  of  night ; 
Its  enchantment  I  would  not  break, 

Be  thy  slumber  never  so  light. 
Let  yon  Southern  moon  delay 
Till  one  rosy  setting  ray 
Kiss  thine  eyelids  and  tell  thee  I  bid  thee 
Adieu,  adieu. 

When  a  winged  perfume  was  blown 
From  yon  bloom-white  acacia  tree 
I  followed  its  guidance  alone, 

For  I  knew  it  would  lead  me  to  thee. 
Let  the  breath  of  those  blossoms  steal 
O'er  thy  senses,  and  subtly  reveal 
What  I  whisper,  yet  not  for  thy  hearing  — 
Adieu,  adieu. 

The  song  of  the  mocking-bird 

Comes  back  from  the  echoing  height ; 
Its  music  is  felt,  not  heard  — 

'T  is  a  part  of  this  passionate  night. 
In  thy  dreams  let  it  murmur  and  thrill, 
And  thy  heart  with  its  tenderness  fill, 
For  it  tells  thee  I  love  thee,  yet  bid  thee 
Adieu,  adieu. 

(Revised    and  Fashionable   Form.) 

WHEN    DE   HONEYSHUCK  'S  1    IN    BLOOM. 

(VIRGINIA   PLANTATION    SONG.) 

When  de  honeyshuck  's  in  bloom, 
An'  de  'possum  an'  de  coon 
Go  a-sportin'  by  de  moonlight  in  de  gum  tree  an'  de 
co'n, 
Den  I  take  my  banjo  down 
An'  go  wanderin'  aroun' 
To  my  Sally  in  de  valley,  oh !   de  sweetes'  gal  dat  's 
bo'n. 
Gwuffum  hyah,2  strangah, 

Pass  dat  cabin  doh  ! 
Or  yo'  heart  '11  come  to  harm 
By  de  yellah  moon's  charm, 

An'  yo'  nebber  will  return  no  mo'. 

Oh,  de  sunflowah's  head 
Am  a-droopin'  like  he  's  dead 
When  de  shadows  oberstruct  him  an'  he  cyarnt  see 
de  sun. 
An'  so  all  de  day  long 
I  'se  without  a  smile  or  song, 
Till  I   rally  for    my   Sally  when  de  wukin'   time  's 
done. 
Gwuffum  hyah,  strangah, 

Pass  dat  cabin  doh  ! 
Dar  's  a  power  o'  danger  lies 
In  a  pair  o'  rollin'  eyes, 

An'  yo'  nebber  will  return  no  mo'. 

De  catbird  an'  me, 

An'  de  honeyshuck  tree, 
Wait  a-watchin'  an'  a-singin'  till  de  moon  done  hide. 

De  catbird  may  fly, 

An'  de  honeyshuck  may  die, 
But  with  Sally  in  de  valley   I   '11  be  libin'  side  by 
side. 


1  Sweet  locust. 


2  "Go  away  from  here." 


Gwuffum  hyah,  strangah, 

Pass  dat  cabin  doh  ! 
For  love  holds  fas' 
F'om  de  fust  to  de  las', 

An'  yo'  nebber  will  return  no  mo'. 

Henry   Tyrrell. 

On  Joe  Jefferson,  telling  his  Story. 

Old  friend,  we  wondered  at  your  matchless  art 

When  on  the  stage  you  pleased  and  thrilled  and 

taught  us, 
But  wonder  now  no  more.     Your  tale  has  brought 
us 
To  better  knowledge  of  your  greatest  "part." 

Acres  we  knew,  and  Rip, —  or  thought  we  knew, — 
And  loved  them  better  as  acquaintance  lengthened. 
The  Man  himself  the  Actor's  charm  has  strength- 
ened; 

The  best  of  all,  Joe  Jefferson,  is — yon. 

John  L.  Heaton. 

My  Blotter  and   I. 

This  poor  old  blotter,  ink-dried  and  torn, 
A  world  of  worry  with  me  has  borne. 

What  laughter  has  soaked  it  through  and  through, 

When  my  pen  has  joked,  as  pens  will  do; 
What  heights  have  I  climbed  in  fancy  pure  ; 
What  had  my  heroines  to  endure 

Of  woe,  when  trials  we  piled  so  high, 

Pitilessly,  my  blotter  and  I. 

Catching  the  ink  from  the  driest  screeds 

That  ever  supplied  a  mortal's  needs  — 
Money  for  this  and  money  for  that, 
The  children's  shoes  or  my  Easter  hat; 

While  I  prosed  in  a  practical  way, 

Or  caroled  of  life  in  verses  gay, 

It  drank  my  joy  as  it  did  my  sigh  — 
Both  undismayed,  my  blotter  and  I. 

O  friend  of  this  sweet  and  passing  year, 
Something  beside  the  dark  stains  are  here ! 

I  can  on  this  grimy,  mottled  face 

The  record  of  many  battles  trace. 
Penned  from  the  pang  of  a  scorching  pain, 
The  sheet  here  blotted  brought  speedy  gain ; 

There  pressed  the  story  that  none  would  buy  — 

We  loved  it  best,  my  blotter  and  I ! 

This  I  wrote  on  some  general,  dead, 
That  was  the  answer  I  sent  to  Ned ; 

Upside  down,  and  the  other  side  too, 

Are  words  forgotten,  though  doubtless  true : 
And  worse,  a  "  Darling  "  ;   and  yes, "  Kate  dear  !  " 
To  names  lost  sight  of  in  one  short  year. 

There  fell  the  tears  from  "  a  woman's  cry  " — 

We  were  alone,  my  blotter  and  I. 

Into  the  basket, —  it  must  be  so  !  — 
My  gentle  and  patient  friend,  you  go; 

How  can  another,  both  strange  and  new, 

Speak  with  my  words,  as  you  seem  to  do  ? 
How  can  I  turn  to  its  dull,  white  face 
With  thoughts  of  my  soul's  most  secret  place  ? 

Dirty,  but  dear  you  are.    Well,  good-by  ! 

Once  we  were  strange  —  my  blotter  and  I. 

Cora  Stuart  Wheeler. 


THE  DE  VINNE  PRESS,  NEW  YORK. 

160 


THE    CENTURY   ADVERTISING    SUPPLEMENT. 


THE  CHOCOLATE-PLANT  AND  SOME  OF  ITS  PRODUCTS. 


OF  the  beverages  which  we  infuse,  two  are 
derived  from  plants  native  to  America. 
One  of  these,  namely,  Mate,  or  Paraguayan  Tea, 
is  very  local  in  its  distribution  and  employment, 
and  probably  will  always  remain  so.  The  other, 
the  Chocolate-plant,  has  become  more  and  more 
widely  distributed  in  cultivation  and  use,  and 
commands  year  by  year  a  more  extensive  appli- 
cation. 

After  its  introduction  into  Europe  from  Amer- 
ica, it  was  used  at  first  only  as  a  luxury,  but  it 
has  steadily  advanced  in  popular  esteem,  until  it 
is  now  recognized  as  one  of  the  necessaries  of 


they  have  all  been  used  from  time  immemorial, 
and  that  all  three  are  welcome  gifts  from  a  rude 
state  of  civilization  to  the  highest  which  exists 
to-day.  By  the  savages  and  the  Aztecs  of  Amer- 
ica, by  the  roving  tribes  of  Arabia,  and  by  the 
dwellers  in  the  farther  East,  the  virtues  of  these 
three  plants  were  recognized  long  before  any  one 
of  them  was  introduced  into  Europe.  Chocolate 
was  the  first  of  these  to  attract  the  attention  of 
Europeans.  This  beverage  rapidly  made  its 
way  throughout  Europe,  beginning  from  Spain 
and  Portugal,  whither  its  discoverers  had  brought 
it.     The  other  beverages,  Tea  and  Coffee,  soon 

TRACTATVS 

HJ>  VI 
DE  POTV  CAPHE. 

D  E 

CHINENS1VM  THE; 
DE  CHOCOLATE, 


life.      Moreover,  it  is  now  widely  cultivated  in 
countries  far  from  its  original  home. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  speculate  as  to  the 
accidents  which  led  to  the  original  use  of  such 
beverages  as  Coffee,  Tea,  and  Chocolate.  The 
earliest  employment  of  the  two  former  is  veiled 
in  as  deep  a  mystery  as  that  which  surrounds 
the  Chocolate-plant.  All  were  used  at  the  out- 
set by  what  we  have  been  accustomed  to  call  the 
uncultivated  races  of  mankind,  but  we  cannot 
surmise  what  first  attracted  their  attention  to 
these  plants.  One  can  only  say  that  by  the  na- 
tives of  lands  where  the  plants  grow  naturally, 
May,  *90. 


P  ARt  S  It  $9 

Apud  Petrum  Muguet. 
M.DC.LXXXF. 


followed,  and  after  a  short   time  became  associ- 
ated together  in  popular  regard. 

In  a  duodecimo  work,  published  in  1685,  and 
now  very  rare,  the  beverages  derived  from  these 
three  plants  are  described  in  a  clear  and  forcible 
manner.  The  reproduction  of  the  title-page  and 
frontispiece  of  this  book,  given  above,  shows  how 
intimate  the  association  of  these  beverages  was 
regarded  even  two  centuries  ago.  It  is  interest- 
ing to  observe  the  distinction  made  by  the  artist 
in  the  receptacles  and  cups  for  holding  these 
three  different  drinks.  Perhaps  the  only  article 
shown    in    the    eneravincr   which   does    not   ex- 


22 


THE    CHOCOLATE-PLANT  AND    SOME    OF  ITS  PRODUCTS. 


plain  itself,  is  the  mallet-like  stirrer  on  the  floor, 
near  the  chocolate-vase.  This  stirrer,  of  which 
several  forms  are  shown  in  the  copy  from  an  old 
engraving,  was  employed  to  beat  the  chocolate, 
mixed  with  water  and  certain  spices,  into  a  froth 
or  foam.  It  has  been  thought  by  some  authori- 
ties that  the  name  Chocolate  has  reference  in 
part  to  the  noise  made  by  these  stirrers  as  they 
are  rapidly  whirled  in  beating  up  the  foam. 

Starting  from  this  point,  it  may  be  instruct- 
ive to  trace  some  of  the  changes  which  have 
taken  place  in  the  preparation  of  Chocolate 
since  the  publication  of  the  earliest  records  of 
its  use. 

The  seeds  of  the  Chocolate-plant  are  borne 
in  pods,  well  represented  in  the  accompanying 
illustration  taken  from  one  of  the  early  works 
on  the  subject.  No.  I  exhibits  the  ripened  pod, 
5  and  6  the  fruits  in  different  stages  of  growth. 
No.  2  shows  the  pod  cut  open,  and  displays  some 
of  the  seeds,  while  3  and  4  are  the  seeds  them- 
selves, the  former  in  its  natural  state,  the  latter 
with  the  seed-coats  removed.  One  of  the  strik- 
ing peculiarities  of  the  mode  of  growth  is  well 
shown  in  the  old  engraving,  namely :  the  develop- 
ment of  the  flowers  and  fruit  on  the  old  branches 
and  even  on  the  trunk  itself. 


In  the  preparation  of  the  seeds 
for  market,  there  has  been  ap- 
parently very  little  change  since 
the  earliest  times.  The  seeds 
are  first  of  all  allowed  to  fer- 
ment, and  by  this  process  they 
lose  the  slight  bitterness  which 
they  possess  when  fresh.  After 
fermentation,  they  are  carefully 
dried,  in  which  condition  they 
bear  transportation  very  well. 

The  first  stage  of  manufacture 
to-day  does  not  differ  in  its  essen- 
tial principles  from  that  which 
was  earliest  employed:  the  seeds, 
or  as  they  are  technically  known 
the  "beans,"  are  roasted,  by 
which  process  the  shell  of  the 
seed  becomes  easily  detachable 
from  the  kernel,  the  part  used. 
The  roasted  kernels  are  next 
ground. 

In  the  early  process  employed 
by  the  Mexicans  and  other  in- 
habitants of  warmer  America, 
the  same  flat  stones  on  which 
their  maize  was  ground  were 
used  for  the  grinding  of  the 
roasted  seeds  of  Chocolate.  The 
curious  engraving  of  one  of  these 
simple  mills,  taken  from  the  same 
work  which  contained  the  pic- 
tures of  the  stirrers,  will  show 
the  method  of  use.    It  represents 


THE   CHOCOLATE-PLANT  AND   SOME    OE  LTS  PRODUCTS. 


23 


doubtless  one  of  the  early  forms  of  the  aboriginal 
mills  as  slightly  modified  for  use  in  Spain  and 
Portugal. 

The  machines  which  have  replaced  these  sim- 
plest possible  mills  are  now  exceedingly  complex. 


One  of  the  most  complicated  and  successful  of 
these  is  shown  in  the  large  engraving  on  the  next 
page. 

Chocolate  consists  of  the  roasted,  shelled,  and 
ground  seeds.  Sweet  Chocolate  and  Vanilla 
Chocolate  are  the  same  as  this,  with  the  addition 
of  sugar  and  flavoring  substances. 

What  is  called  Cocoa  consists  of  the  roasted 
and  ground  seeds,  from  which  a  certain  portion 
of  the  oil  has  been  removed. 

It  may  be  of  some  interest  to  know  that  there 
is  not  to-day  a  dissentient  voiceTelative  to  the  use 
of  a  properly  prepared  chocolate.  Experiments 
have  shown  beyond  controversy  that  if  the  seeds 
are  rightly  treated  from  the  first  period  of  their 
ripening  up  to  the  last  stage  of  their  manufac- 
ture, no  objection  can  be  urged  against  the  bev- 
erages produced  therefrom.  But  it  is  of  the 
highest  importance  that  these  seeds  should  be 
grown  and  selected  with  the  greatest  care,  and 
should,  after  their  safe  landing  in  the  factory, 
receive  the  most  delicate  and  skillful  treatment. 
Differences  in  these  respects  make  all  the  dif- 
ference in  the  world  between  trustworthy  and 
untrustworthy  products. 

To  show  how  much  care  can  be  well  laid  out 
in  a  single  important  industry  like  this,  it  may 
be  worth  while  to  trace  the  course  of  the  product 


from  the  tropics  to  the  breakfast-table,  in  the  case 
of  the  oldest  firm  in  America  engaged  in  the 
manufacture. 

It  is  of  no  slight  importance  to  Americans,  and 
it  is  certainly  a  source  of  great  pride  to  them, 
that  a  firm,  established  in  1780,  in  the  native 
land  of  the  Chocolate-plant,  should  still  main- 
tain its  supremacy  as  regards  the  excellence  of 
its  numerous  products. 

In  the  instance  of  their  Chocolate,  the  prepared 
seeds,  selected  with  scrupulous  care  as  to  quality, 
are  roasted,  cracked,  freed  from  their  shells,  and 
ground  by  apparatus  of  the  most  elaborate  con- 
struction. The  oldest  product  of  the  firm  is 
known  as  Baker's  No.  1,  the  purest  plain  Choco- 
late which  art  can  possibly  make.  It  is  generally 
known  that  certain  substitutes  for  the  flavor  of 
vanilla  are  widely  employed,  on  account  of  cheap- 
ness, in  the  manufacture  of  Chocolate  ;  but  the 
firm  of  Walter  Baker  &  Co.  has  held  aloof  from 
all  of  these,  and  confines  itself  to-day,  as  it  did 
in  1780,  to  the  pure  flavor  of  the  choicest  vanilla 
beans.  It  is  rightly  held  that  for  a  product  which 
has  so  long  been  recognized  as  being  without  a 
rival,  the  best  of  everything  should  be  used. 
Owing  to  the  care  exercised  in  keeping  to  the  old 
land-marks,  Baker's  No.  1  Chocolate  has  to-day 
the  same  incomparable  keeping  qualities  and 
exquisite  flavor  which  it  had  a  century  ago. 

Chocolate-seeds  contain  a  certain  percentage 
of  a  pure  oil,  free  from  rancidity,  and  grateful 
as  an  article  of  food.  But  there  are  many  per- 
sons who  find  that  the  normal  Chocolates  possess 
too  large  a  quantity  of  this  oil,  and  to  meet  their 
preference  there  have  been  prepared  the  articles 
variously  known  as  Cacao,  or  Cocoa.  These, 
when  well  made,  consist  of  the  finest  seeds  prop- 
erly roasted,  ground,  and  freed  from  a'  definite 
proportion  of  the  oil.  The  pressed  cake  is  ground 
again,  sifted,  and  is  then  ready  for  use.  In  what 
is  known  as  the  Dutch  Process  for  preparing 
Cocoa,  the  seeds  are  acted  upon  by  some  alkali 
or  alkaline  salt. 

Walter  Baker  &  Co.  have  taken  a  decided 
stand  against  the  employment  of  the  alkalies, 
potash,  soda,  or  ammonia,  believing  that  the  inge- 
nious mechanical  process  peculiar  to  their  Cocoa 
is  far  superior  to  any  violent  chemical  process. 
By  their  method  of  manufacture,  the  tissues  of 
the  Cocoa  are  as  perfectly  unlocked,  and  as  ready 
for  infusion,  as  any  of  the  dark  and  perfumed 
Cocoas  thrust  upon  the  market.  In  Walter 
Baker  &  Co.'s  Cocoa  the  purchaser  is  sure  of 
finding  the  good  qualities  of  the  purest  cocoa  un- 
injured by  any  chemical  torturing.  By  their 
process  is  made  a  fine,  pure  Cocoa,  which,  on  the 
addition  of  boiling  water,  is  fragrant  of  Cocoa 
and  not  of  foreign  flavors  of  any  kind.  It  is  not 
excelled  in  solubility,  and  it  is  not  approached  in 
purity  by  any  product  in  the  market.  It  repre- 
sents the  highest  point  of  perfection  which  mod- 
ern science  has  yet  reached  in  the  preparation  of 
a  soluble  Cocoa,  and  has  the  great  advantage 
over  all  others  of  being  made  of  the  best  blends 
of  choicest  seeds.  The  marvelous  growth  of  this 
industry  indicates  that  our  people  appreciate  a 
pure  and  perfect  product. 


24 


May,  »90. 


This  picture  will  suggest  the  many  advantages  of  our  Patent  Desk  and  Fall.  When  the  key-board  is 
uncovered  the  whole  front  frame  swings  forward  automatically  and  forms  the  ideal  music-desk. 

Our  Patent  Soft  Stop  reduces  the  noise  of  practicing,  so  it  is  not  heard  in  the  next  room,  and  without  changing 
the  feeling  of  the  action.     Also  saves  wear  and  preserves  the  tone  for  playing. 


WE  OFFER  TO  SHIP  ON  APPROVAL,  piano  to  be  returned, 
railway  freights  both  ways  at  our  expense,  if  unsatisfactory  on  examination 
and  trial  in  your  home. 

DISTANCE  MAKES  NO  DIFFERENCE— i  mile  or  2000  miles 
are  alike  to  us.  We  know  our  goods.  The  risk  is  ours.  We  take  old 
instruments  in  exchange,  and  make  terms  of  payment  suit  each  customer's 
reasonable  convenience. 

100-PAGE  CATALOGUE  MAILED  FREE  to  any  one  naming  this 
advertisement.     Address 

Iters  W  Pond  Piano  Co. 

Masonic  Temple,  183-186  Tremont  St.  Boston,  Mass.  I 


OUR  LATEST  STYLES  CAN  BE  SEEN  AT 

PHILIP  WERLEIN'S,  135  Canal  Street,  New  Orleans. 
SANDERS  &  STAYMAN'S,  Baltimore,  Washington,  Richmond. 
W.  J.  DYER  &  BRO'S,  St.  Paul  and  Minneapolis. 
For  Pacific   Coast,   KOHLER   &   CHASE,   San  Francisco,   California. 


J.  G.  RAMSDELL'S,  1111  Chestnut  Street,  Philadelphia. 

F.  H.  CHANDLER'S,  300  Fulton  Street,  Brooklyn. 

G.  W.  HERBERT'S,  18  East  17th  Street,  New- York. 


E 
S 
T 


stablished  over  50  Years, 


ales,  over  221,000, 


he  best  Organ  made. 


specially  suited  for  voice. 


Y 


ou  should  own  one. 


o 

R 

G 
A 

lis 


f  finest  workmanship. 


ichf  deep,  pure  tone. 


enerously  equipped, 


nd  lasts  a  lifetime. 


o  organ  so  popular, 


ESTEY  ORGAN  CO.  Brattleboro',  Vt 


BRANCH  OFFICES 

159  Tremont  Street,  Boston.  831  Broadway,  New-York. 

18  North  7th  Street,  Philadelphia,  916  Olive  Street,  St.  Louis. 


State  and  Jackson  Streets,  Chicago. 
Marietta  and  Broad  Sts.  Atlanta,  Gu 


An  interesting  Book  (containing  40  illustrations)  entitled,  "How  Large  is  200,000,"  will  be 
mailed  free  after  April  10th,  one  copy  to  one  address. 


Piano. 

Unexcelled  in  Precision  and  Delicacy 
of  Touch  and  Durability. 

If  not  for  sale  by  your  local  dealer,  address 

The   JOHN    CHURCH    CO.     -     CINCINNATI,    O. 

"From  Andante  to  Allegro,"  a  beautifully  illustrated  pamphlet, 
will  be  mailed  to  any  one  who  will  mention  where  this  advertisement 
was  seen  and  inclose  two  cents  in  stamps. 


THEY  COMBINE  SYMPATHETIC,  PURE 
AND  RICH  TONE,  GREATEST  POWER, 
ELEGANCE  AND  DURABILITY.  THEY 
ARE  SOLD  ON  THE  MOST  ACCOMMO- 
DATING TERMS,  DELIVERED  IN  YOUR 
HOUSE  FREE  OF  EXPENSE  ANYWHERE 
IN  THE  UNITED  STATES,  AND  SATIS- 
FACTION GUARANTEED. 

CATALOGUES  AND  FULL  INFORMA- 
TION MAILED  FREE   ON  APPLICATION. 


Vo6E  6  6on5  Piano  (q. 

170  TREMONT 5T- BOSTON  -MASS- 


GAS  FIXTURES,  LAMPS, 
ELECTROLIERS. 

For  this  season's  furnishings,  our  artists  have 
produced  many  original  designs,  which,  being 
made  in  the  most  careful  manner,  carry  out  the 
standard  of  excellence  heretofore  maintained. 

These  goods  are  now  supplied  in  old  silver 
finish,  and  make  artistic  and  harmonious  fix- 
tures for  special  rooms. 

Wrought-iron  chandeliers  and  hall  lights  in 
unique  designs. 

PRICES    REASONABLE. 

Coi'respondence  solicited.        Estimates  given. 

manufactory:  salesrooms: 

24th  &  25th  Sts.  &  10th  Ave.  836  &  838  Broadway  &  13th  St. 

NEW-YORK. 

Successor  to  Mitchell,  Vance  &  Co. 
ESTABLISHED  1854. 

THE  MITCHELL  YANCE  CO. 


T1VE]VE£3X>Xj^.^F£3. 


Size, 
4  feet  long, 
2  feet  high, 
2  feet  wide. 

Price,  $13. 


4  Reasons  why  you  should  buy  a  Cedar  Chest. 

1.  Necessity.  Winter  is  over.  Moths  are  in  the  air.  Your 
clothing  is  not  safe  a  moment.  One  moth  will  cost  you  more  than 
one  chest. 

2.  Certainty.  Don't  waste  time  with  camphor  and  news- 
paper. Tar-bags  may  last  one  season,  but  don't  take  the  risk. 
You  can't  afford  the  loss.  Experience  proves  that  cheap  contri- 
vances are  worthless. 

3.  Price.  Our  price  was  formerly  $16.00.  Our  price  now  is 
$13.00.     Smaller  chests  elsewhere  cost  $17.00  to  $21.00. 

4.  Value.  The  finest,  largest  and  most  aromatic  Cedar  Chest 
made.  Strong  as  iron.  16  cubic  feet  storage.  Paneled  sides  and 
top.     Extra  stout  casters.     Iron  handles.     Dust  proof. 

PAINE'S  FURNITURE  CO.  Boston,  Mass. 

Largest  furniiure  establishment  in  the  world. 


HALL    CLOCKS. 

In  buying  a  hall  clock,  as  much  care  should  be  taken  in  selecting  a  case 
that  is  well  made,  and  making  sure  that  the  cabinet-work  is  first-class,  as 
you  would  take  in  securing  a  movement  of  the  best  quality. 

Never  buy  an  imported  case.    It  will  not  stand  the  variations  of  our  climate. 

If  you  want  a  clock  that  you  can  take  pleasure  in  for  a  lifetime,  and 
then  bequeath  to  your  children,  buy  one  of  our  Tubular  Ohime  Clocks ;  they 
are  good  for  a  hundred  years  or  more. 

These  Tubular  Chiming  Clocks  are  fully  protected  by  Letters  Patent,  and 
persons  purchasing  should  see  that  every  bell  is  stamped  with  our  name. 

They  are  sold  only  by  our  authorized  Agents,  and  any  infringement  of  our 
rights  is  subject  to  heavy  royalty  on  either  buyer  or  seller. 

Clocks  imported  with  Tubular  Bells  come  under  this  infringement,  as  we 
control  all  U.  S.  Eights. 

The  List  of  Agents  given  below  speaks  for  the  superior  quality  of  these 
clocks.    Each  Agent  has  an  Album  containing  Photographs  of  all  our  designs. 

AGENTS: 

Theodore  B.  Starr,  New-York.  Bailey,  Banks  &  Biddle, Philadelphia. 

Spaulding  &  Co.  Chicago.  Jas.  E.  Caldwell  &  Co. 

Mermod  &  Jaccard  Jewelry  Co.  St.  Louis.  J.  0.  Grogan,  Pittsburgh. 

Jaccard  Watch  &  Jewelry  Co.  Kansas  City.  Wright,  Kay  &  Co.  Detroit. 

Bradstreet,  Thurber  &  Co.  Minneapolis.  Henry  A.  Turner  &  Co.  Boston. 

Woods  &  Hosley,  Springfield.  Tilden,  Thurber  &  Co.  Providence. 

Oowell  &  Hubbard  Co.  Cleveland. 

WALTER    H.   DURFEE   &   CO.  Providence,  R.  I. 


TRADE 


DORFLINGER'S 

AMERICAN 

CUT    GLASS. 


MARK. 


Every  piece  of  our  glass  has  our 
trade-mark  label  on  it.  Be  sure 
and  see  it  if  you  want  the  genuine. 


SALAD  OR  BERRY  BOWL. 


BRIDGET: — "SURE    MA*M,    YOUR   SON'S   FAST  !  " 

This  picture  tells  the  name  of  a  well-known  window- 
shade  Holland.  If  you  will  send  us  a  two-cent  stamp 
we  will  mail  you  free  a  52-inch  tape  measure  made  from 
a  piece  of  the  goods.  All  retail  dealers  in  window 
shades  keep  them. 

If  you  desire  a  sample  book,  showing  the  thirteen 
colors  in  which  these  shades  are  made,  send  an  extra 
two-cent  stamp. 

H.  B.  WIGGINS'  SONS, 

MANUFACTURERS   OF 

Sun  Fast  Rocksonia  Hollands, 

124  Clinton  Place,  New-York  City. 


A  little  accident 
which  has  occurred 
millions  of  times,  and 
which  happens  now 
and  then  in  every 
house. 


THE 


ANTI-KUM-OFF 

Window  Shads  Fasteners  prevent  all  such  accidents. 


Order  them  on  all  new  shades.    They  only  cost  a  trifle. 

tt^~Agents  and  House  Canvassers  Wanted  in 

every  city  and  town  where  the  shade  makers  are  not 
eupplied.  Thousands  of  families  buy  them  for  shades 
already  up.    For  outfit  and  terms  address 

The  Paterson  Novelty  Manufacturing  Company, 
Sole  Manufacturers,  Paterson,  N.  J. 


HAVILAND   CHINA  AT   FIRST  HANDS 

This  style  can  he  had  in  complete 

^Dinner  Sets,  or  Soup  Sets,  %oast  Sets, 

Ice  Cream  Sets, 

Salad  Sets,  A.  D.  Coffees,  etc. 

CORRLSPOUftlNC^  \U\IV\^ 

if1  :r,  j^.  isr  k:    h  a.^il,^.3stid, 


14  BARCLAY  STREET. 

Near  the  Astor  House. 


ORANGE  BOWL,  No.  1823. 


BOLTS  AND  BARS 

may  save  your  silverware  from  thieves,  but  equal  care 
should  be  exercised  in  the  selection  of  materials  for  clean- 
ing and  polishing,  otherwise  great  injury  will  result  For 
more  than  20  years 

"  ELECTRO-SILICON 
has  been  recognized  by  owners  and  makers  of  valuable 
silverware  as  the  only  article  that  produces  the  desired 
brilliancy,  at  a  minimum  expense  of  labor,  and  without 
injury  to  the  ware. 

SOLD  BY  LEADING  DEALERS  EVERYWHERE. 

We  invite  a  trial  without  charge.     Send  address  and  sufficient 
will  be  sent,  post-paid,  or  for  15  cents  in  stamps  a  full-sized  box. 

THE  ELECTRO   SILICON   CO.,    72   JOHN   STREET,    NEW  YORK. 


BILLINGS,  TAYLOR  &  COS 

Pure  Prepared  House  Paint. 

OF  THE  HIGHEST  GRADE. 

MIXED    READY    FOR.    "USE. 

Guaranteed  to  give  entire  and  perfect  satisfaction  when 
properly  applied.  Unsurpassed  for  beauty  and  dur- 
ability. This  line  of  goods  comprises  44  shades, 
including  the  latest  tints  in  artistic  house  decorating. 

Put  up  in  packages  containing  from  I  to  50  gals.  each. 

One  gal.  will  cover  275  square  ft.  of  surface,  two  coats. 

If  you  are  going  to  paint  send  to  us,  and  we  will  tell 
you  how  to  save  money. 

Messrs.  Billings,  Taylor  &  Co. 

Gentlemen:  Three  years  ago  this  fall  I  painted  my  house  with 
your  paint,  and  selected  from  your  card  colors  which  my  neigh- 
bors thought  would  not  stand.  It  affords  me  pleasure  to  be  able  to 
speak  in  most  flattering  terms  of  your  paint.  The  colors  have  stood 
well,  and  the  paint  looks  almost  as  good  to-day  as  when  applied. 
The  building  was  in  rather  rough  condition,  and  certainly  was  a 
severe  test  for  your  paint.  I  pronounce  the  paint  Ai,  and  you  are 
at  liberty  to  use  me  as  a  reference  at  any  time. 

Very  respectfully  yours, 

A.  J.  Ritter,  Rahway,  N.  J. 

BILLINGS,    TAYLOR    &    CO. 

Makers  of  Oil  Stains,  Gloss  Colors,  Floor  Paints,  Colors  and 
Varnishes  for  interior  and  exterior  use. 

438    Pearl  Street,   New-York   City. 
37  to  45  Case  Avenue,  Cleveland,  O. 


STANDARD 
THERMOMETERS 


FOR   ALL   PURPOSES. 


For  Sale  by  the  Trade  Everywhere, 


STANDARD  THERMOMETER  CO. 

PEABODY,  MASS. 


New-York  Office: 
Room  413  Telephone  Building, 

18  Cortlandt  Street. 


NEW    METHOD    OF    MAKING   ICE    CREAM. 

Important  Invention, 

Shepard's  "Lightning"  Ice  Cream  Freezer  (with  Famous  Wheel 
Dasher)  is  creating  a  revolution  in  Ice  Cream  making. 

It  not  only  freezes  the  quickest,  and  runs  much  the  easiest,  but  makes 
most  Ice  Cream  from  given  quantity  of  cream. 

Cedar  Tubs,  Covered  Gearing,  Hinge  Top,  Extra  Strong. 

Leading  merchants  everywhere  sell  the  "Lightning"  as  their  best 
freezer.  If  you  cannot  obtain  same  of  your  local  dealer,  write  to  the 
manufacturers. 

11  Lightning  Freezer  Receipt  $  A  noted  collection  of  best  receipts  for  making  Ice  Cream, 
Book,"  mailed  free.        (      Sherbets,  Ices,  etc.,  also  packed  with  each  freezer. 

A  sk  for  Shepard's '  L  ightning ' '  Freezer  and  take  no  other. 

Sole  Manufacturers, 

SHEPARD  HARDWARE  CO.  Mammoth  Foundry,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 


DO    YOU    BATHE? 


Porcelain-lined    Bath    Tub. 

A   I-jixxxary  You   Can  Afford.. 

If  you  have  never  bathed  in  a  Porcelain-lined  Bath  Tub,  you  have  missed  part  of  the  luxury  of  a  perfect  bath. 
If  you  want  a  Tub  that  is  always  sweet,  clean  and  inviting,  one  that  will  last  for  generations  and  make  your  Bath- 
room an  enchanted  spot  where  in  the  morning  you  will  find  strength  and  inspiration,  and  in  the  evening,  relief 
and  contentment,  supply  yourself  with  a  Porcelain-lined  Bath  Tub  made  by 

"£"     STANDARD  MFG.  CO.,  Pittsburgh,  U.  S.  A. 

"In  the  Wash" 

That's  where  your  delicate  handkerchiefs  come 
to  be  "more  hole-y  than  righteous' -certainly 
not  in  the  show-like  service  required  of  them 
—more  or  less  true  of  all  things  washed. 

(~2-\xrf*     t"WO    e(luaUy  delicate    handkerchiefs  equal  service    for 

xt  7-         1  with  soap — usual  way — the  other  with  Pearline  with- 

W  clSIl    OIIC    out  rubbing>  as  directed  on  each  package— wash    the 
one  you  value  most  with  Pearline — it  will  be  far  the 
best  at  the  end  of  the  year. 

The  old-fashioned  way  of  rub,  rub,  rub,  is  slow 
work,  poor  work,  slow  death  to  women — quick 
death  to  fine  things,  and  renders  coarse  things 
useless  long  before  their  time.     Pearline  does 
away  with  all  this.    Costs  but  fore  cents  to  try  it » 
directions  for  easy  washing  on  every  package; 
easy  for  you,  easy  on  things  washed.     We  cant 
make  you  try  Pearline— -you  would  thankusxl  we 
could.    Millions  are  grateful  for  its  help.    Envi- 
ous soap  makers  try  to  imitate   it — borrowed 
brains  are  cheap — and  so  are  their  productions. 

£\  *  1  1       Peddlers  and  some  unscrupulous  grocers  v 

fSPfirl      If      h/l  r  K    g°odas"  or  "  the  same  as  Pearline."     IT' 
UV/11U     XL-     ^C*\^rv  never  peddled,  and  if  your  groer  sends  yoi 


Pearline,  do  the  honest  tiling — send  it  back, 


J74 


will  tell  you,  "  this  is  a* 
S  FALSE — Pearline  u 
you  something  in  place  of 
JAMES  PYLE,  New  York. 


Ice  Cream  Made  at  Home  cheaply  and  quickly 

by  using  a  Triple-Motion  White 
Mountain    Freezer. 

Covered  Gearing,  Waterproof  Tubs, 
Durable  Cans,  Malleable  Iron  Beaters 
coated  with  tin,  and  the  Triple  Mo- 
tion are  only  a  few  of  the  many  desir- 
able features  of  this  famous  Freezer. 

Will  freeze  in  one-half  the  time  of 
any  other  freezer  and  produce  cream 
i|  of  the  finest  quality. 

For  sale  by  wide-awake,  enterprising 
tradesmen  the  world  over.  Inquire 
for  the  "White  Mountain"  of  your 
local  dealer  in  house-furnishing  goods. 


'FROZEN  DAINTIES."       A  book  of  choice  receipts  for  Ice 
Mailed  free   on  Cream,   Sherbet,  Water   Ices,  etc., 

application.  packed  with  each  freezer  this  season. 


The  White  Mountain  Freezer  Co.,  120  HolHs  St.,  Nashua,  N.  H. 


"NEVER-BREAr 

steel  cooking  utensils  won't  warp, 
scale,  crack,  absorb  grease,  or  taste 
of  previous  cooking.  Every  house- 
keeper appreciates  these  qualities — 
then  just  think  you  can't  break  them. 
"What  a  comfort  to  have  such  things. 
If  your  dealer  hasn't  them  send  for 
our  illustrated  circular. 
THE  BRONSON  SUPPLY  CO.,  Cleveland,  O. 


SOLD 


AND    NOT 
WEAR    OUT. 

by  Jewelers.     By  mail,  25  cents.     Circulars  free. 
J.  S.  BIRCH  &  (JO.  79  Washington  St.  Brooklyn,  I.  Y. 


DOUBLE  ACTION.  $  £HE  £AN  t^RNS  one  way, 
'  I  The  Stirrer  turns  oppos 


OPPOSITE  WAY. 


W  MINUTES 
TO  MAKE 


E  GREAM 


pZ^5  Gem  Icf  Cream  Freezer  is  the  most  Simple, 
Jittective  and  Convenient  Freezer  for  HOME  TTSE. 

I    USES  LESS  ICE  THAN%NY  OTHER  FREEZER,    f 

White  Cedar  Pail— Don't  shrink  and  fall  apart 
„  yearinff  completely  Covered— Ice  and  Salt  can't 
get  between  and  clog,  nor  can  fingers  get  caught 

Self.AdjiiKliiiK  N<  rancr.    N>ver  out  of  order. 

Oan  be  depended  on  to  Freeze  Cream  in  not  to  exceed 
iu  minntes.  It  is  mone  v  in  yourpocket  to  insist 
on  having  THE  OEM  FREEZER. 

For  sale  by  all  leading  dealers  in  Hardware  and  House 
Furnishing  Goods.  Illustrated  Catalogues  and  Recipes 
for  IOO  Ice  Creams,  etc.,  sent  free  on  application  to 

AMERICAN    MACHINE  CO., 

LEHIOH  AVE.  &  AMEBICAH  ST.,  PHILADELPHIA,  PA. 


Don't  buy  until  you  have  ex- 
amined the 

LEONARD  CLEANABLE. 

Others  may  claim  to  be  as 
good,  but  they  are  not.  They 
all  lack  the  great  improve- 
ments found  only  in  the 
LEONARD.  Movable 
FlueB,  Air-tight  Locks,  Five 
Walls,  Cold  Dry  Air,  Hard- 
wood, Antique  Finish,  Elegant 
and  Durable.  Send  your  ad- 
dress and  receive  our  Art  Cata- 
logue free,  and  your  nearest 
agent's  name. 


Grand  Rapids 
Refrigerator  Co., 

138  FULTON  STREET,  GRAND  RAPIDS,  MICH. 


A 
R 

E 

T 
H 
E 
N 


You  weary  of  using  a  Refrigerator  with  an  odor  that  is  unbearable  ? 
You  weary  of  paying  bills  for  Ice  that  you  do  not  get  the  benefit  of? 
You  weary  of  promises  in  regard  to  the  merits  of  Refrigerators,  dry  air, 
circulation,  finish,  etc.,  that  are  never  fulfilled  ? 

Investigate,  and  buy  one  of  the  patented  "  Wisconsin  Peerless  "  Hardwood  Household 
Refrigerators,  the  most  perfect  ever  made,  and 

You  will  have  no  foul  odors,  as  with  our  patented  cleanable  flues  it  will  be  as  sweet  after 
five  years'  use  as  on  the  day  it  left  the  factory. 

You  will  have  lower  Ice  bills;  we  use  Mineral  Fiber  for  filling  our  walls,  the  most  perfect 
non-conductor  known,  and  which  will  not  shake  down  or  sieve  through  like  Charcoal, 
will  not  rot  or  mold  like  Sawdust,  and  will  not  allow  warm  air  and  dampness  to 
penetrate  to  the  interior  like  dead  air  space. 

You  are  guaranteed  that  it  will  be  as  represented  or  your  money  refunded. 

If  your  dealer  does  not  handle  them,  have  him  send  for  catalogue  to  any  of  the  follow- 
ing representative  houses,  who  are  jobbing  agents  : 


The  Ross  and  Fuller  Association,  New- York. 
The  Seltzer  Klahr  Hardware  Co.,  Philadelphia. 
The  Lockwood  Taylor  Hardware  Co.,  Cleveland. 
The  tee  Clarke  Andreesen  Hardware  Co.,  Omaha. 
John  Bowers,  Richmond,  Va. 
W.  W.  Walker,  Dallas,  Texas. 


Horton,  Gilmore,  McWilliams  &  Co.,  Chicago. 

A.  Baldwin  &  Co.,  limited,  New  Orleans. 

Phillips,  Hood  &  Co.,  Nashville,  Tenn. 

Macon  Hardware  Co.,  Macon,  Ga. 

A.  J.  Miller  Co.,  Savannah,  Ga. 

The  Cincinnati  Stamping  Co.,  Cincinnati. 


M.  Seller  &  Co.,  Portland,  Oregon;    Seattle,  Washington;  Spokane  Falls,  Washington.     Or  direct  to 

THE  WISCONSIN  REFRIGERATOR  CO.,  Eau  Claire,  Wis.,  U.  S.  A. 


PUT  MONEY  IN  THY  PURSE. 

After  the  wedding  you  found  your 
friends  had  given  you  14  bon-bon 
dishes,  10  dozen  after-dinner  coffee 
spoons,  8  sets  of  oyster  forks,  4 
salad  sets,  etc.  Your  grandparents 
would  have  stored  these  duplicates 
in  a  Safe  Deposit  Co. — this  age  is 
too  practical  for  that,  and  your 
friends  would  be  better  pleased  if 
you  send  them  to  us  to  exchange  or 
purchase —  that's  our  business  !  Buy- 
ing, selling  or  exchanging  these 
duplicates,  marked  or  not,  it  makes 
no  difference — we  have  a  process  of 
erasing  inscriptions.  We  can  sell 
you  an  appropriate  gift  in  sterling 
silver  below  manufacturers'  cost. 

SEND   FOR   PRICE-LIST. 

Why  not  stop  paying  storage  on  your  old  useless 
silver  and  send  it  to  us  with  your  old  worn-out 
jewelry  ?  We  will  take  it  in  exchange  or  buy  it 
of  you. 

J.  H.JOHNSTON  &  CO.  150  Bowery,  N.Y. 

May,  '00. 


WIRE 

SCREENS 


Our  new  brick  Screen  Factories,  erected  1885  and  1888, 

ARE  THE  LARGEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 

Our  Improved  Window  and  Door  Screens  are  twenty-five  years 
in  advance  of  ordinary  kinds.  They  are  made  of  twenty- four  kinds 
and  colors  of  wood  (beautifully  finished),  specially  fine  black 
enameled  wire  netting  and  handsome  hardware.  Our  Window 
Screens  slide  like  a  sash,  and  may  be  used  at  top  of  window  as  well 
as  lower  part.  We  have  screened  more  than  twelve  thousand  of 
the  best  houses  of  thirty-six  States.  Do  not  disfigure  your  house 
with  cheaply-made  screens.  We  sell  direct  to  owners  of  houses  at 
lowest  wholesale  prices.  If  you  want  to  buy  Screens  and  will  write 
us  number  needed,  and  mention  The  Century,  we  will  send  you 
our  catalogue,  samples,  prices  and  directions.  We  have  salesmen 
to  show  samples  in  all  large  cities. 

E.  T.  BURROWES  &  CO.  PORTLAND,  ME. 


m 


Ruddy,  rosy,  happy  lad!  Only 
by  breathing  PURE  AIR  are 
such  flesh-tints  secured.  Every 
home  and  every  school  may  have 
Pure  Air  in  abundance,  without 
danger  from  the  deadly  draught. 
Science  has  conquered  circum- 
stance. The  Sherman  "  King" 
Vaporizer  will  keep  fresh  and 
vitalized  any  room,  house,  school 
or  hall.  It  has  no  rival  as  a  pro- 
moter of  health,  happiness  and  good  cheer. 

A  Vaporizer  for  the  bedroom  costs  but  $3.50.  A  larger  one,  for  the  home,  $5. 
The  largest,  for  office  or  school-room,  $8.  Each  Vaporizer  sold  will  run  two 
months  without  attention,  and  it  costs  but  from  2  to  4  cents  a  month  for  recharg- 
ing.    Illustrated  circular,  with  testimonials,  free. 

Sherman  "King"  Vaporizer  Co.  Chicopee  Falls,  Mass. 
Boston;  New -York;  Philadelphia  or  Chicago. 


LOWELL 


For  nearly  half  a  century,  Lowell  Carpets  have  -been 
acknowledged  by  all  to  be 


The  word 
"LOWELL" 
APPEARS  IN 
CAPITAL  LET- 
TERS in  the  back  of 
Lowell,  Wilton 
and  Body  Brussels 
at  every  repeat  of  the 
pattern.  LOOK 
CAREFULLY 
to  the  trade-marks,  and 
be  sure  you  get  the 
genuine 

LOWELL 
CARPETS. 


THE 
BEST 


The      LOWELL 
INGRAINS    are 

wound  upon  a  hollow 
stick,  which  the  United 
States  Court  decided 
to  be  a  valid  trade- 
mark. The  stick  is 
in  two  solid  pieces 
with  the  name  of  the 

LOWELL 
COMPANY 

stamped  within. 

BEWARE    OF 
IMITATIONS. 


SPALDING'S 

PREPARED 

GLUE. 

The  Famous  Adhesive  of  the  World.     War- 
ranted seven  times  the  strength  of  any- 
other  liquid  glue. 
//  holds  like  a  vise.     It  mends  everything. 
THE  STANDARD  FOR  THIRTY  YEARS. 

3-ounce  bottle,  20  cents,  with  brush. 
Sold  everywhere. 


These  goods  are  invariably  full  width,  and  may  be 
had  in  a  large  variety  of  designs,  which  for  technique 
and  coloring  are  unequaled,  rendering  them  especially 
appropriate  for  artistic  homes. 

For  Sale  by  all  First-class  Dealers. 


CARPETS 


BANNER 
LAMP 

EXCELS  ALL OTHERS  FOB 

Beauty,  Brilliancy, 
Safety  &  Economy. 

Gives     a    Steady    White 

Light. 
Superior  in  Workmanship 

and  Finish. 
Prices  [Lower  than   any 

other  Lamp  of  equal  merit. 

Several  attractive  styles. 

yggT'Ask  your  denier  for  it. 

Take  no  Other. 

THE  PLUME  &ATW00D  MFG.  CO. 

New  York,  Chicago,  Boston. 


Solid  Silverware. 

Table  Forks,  which  are  of  Italian  invention, 
are  about  three  centuries  old,  the  ancients  know- 
ing nothing  of  them.  Queen  Elizabeth  was  the 
first  royal  personage  in  England  to  have  used 
them;  all  classes,  high  and  low,  using  their  fingers. 

We  here  illustrate  some  approved  designs  of 
Forks  and  Spoons,  fairly  representing  the  very 
attractive  collection  in  this  department,  and  offer 
them  in  Storage  Chests,  Cabinets,  Cases  of  six 
or  twelve,  or  singly  as  souvenirs,  which  may  also 
be  sent  by  mail,  at  price  per  dozen : 

Dozen.  Dozen. 

No.  7,  Table  Spoon,  $46.00  No.  1,  Fork,  .  .  $40.00 
"  6,  Dessert  "  24.00  "2,  "  ...  26.00 
"   5,  Tea  "        12.00         "   4,  Coffee  Spoon,      8.00 

"   3,  Bon-Bon  or  Caddy  Spoon,  $1.75  ;  gilt  bowl,      2.25 

I3F*  Weights  guaranteed  and  prices  per  oz.  attractively  low. 

An  interesting  collection  of  more  than  fifty 
patterns  of  Solid  Silver  Spoons,  reproductions  of 
Mediaeval  French,  English  and  Dutch  Models. 

Descriptive  Catalogue  supplied  of  other  Silver, 
with  some  indications  of  Rich  Table  Porcelain, 
Clocks,  Bronzes,  etc. 

330  Fifth  Avenue, 
New -York. 


Ovington  Brothers, 


Brooklyn  House, 
Fulton  &  Clark  Streets. 


HARTSHORN'S  JBlP 


Beware  of  Imitations. 
NOTICE 
AUTOGRAPH 


ON 

LABEL 

ANT>  GET 

EGENUINE 


JEHETTS  BEFRIGEflfiTOBS 


thie:    FAarcixw 


LABRADOR. 

Send  for  Book  of  Information. 

THE  JOHN  C.  JEWETT  MFG.  CO.,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 


D.  L.  Dowd's  Health  Exerciser. 

For  Brain-workers  and  Sedentary 
People.  Gentlemen,  Ladies,  Youths  ; 
the  Athlete  or  Invalid.  A  complete  gym- 
nasium. Takes  up  but  6  inches  square 
I  floor-room  ;  new,  scientific,  durable,  com- 
prehensive, cheap.  Indorsed  by  20,000 
'physicians,  lawyers,  clergymen,  editors 
and  others  now  using  it.  Send  for  illustrated  circular,  40 
engravings;  no  charge. 

D.  L.  Dowd's  School  for  Scientific, 

Physical  and  Vocal  Culture,  for  ladies,  gentlemen 
and  children.  If  you  desire  a  robust,  healthy  physique 
and  a  voice  of  rare  charm  and  power,  you  can  surely  obtain 
them  by  application  of  scientific  principles.  By  this 
method,  a  singing  voice  for  the  practically  voiceless  and  a 
sound  body  for  the  unhealthful  is  possible.  The  lost  voice 
can  positively  be  restored.  Remember,  "knowledge  is 
power."     Send  for  prospectus,  or  call. 

Facial  Development. 

Will  mail  you  rules  to  develop  muscles  of  cheeks  and 
neck  to  make  them  plump  and  rosy,  fully  illustrated,  for 
50  cents.  Also  rules  for  Dumbbells  to  develop  every 
muscle  of  the  limbs  and  body  for  50  cents  additional, 
fully  illustrated. 

Prof.  D.   L.  DOWD, 
Scientific,  Physical  and  Vocal  Culture, 

9  East  14th  St.  New- York. 


DON'T  STOOP 

to  use  a  valve  that  must  be  opened  or  closed 
by  hand,  but  make  your  foot  save  your  back, 
wrists  and  temper. 


for  1SQO    I"  6nt     -PJS?£*i  VALVE"  for  Direct  Radiators.    Radical  Improvements 

for  1890.  Mechanism  simplified  one-half.  Prices  reduced.  Valve  seats  with  the  pres- 
sure, and  the  greater  the  pressure  the  tighter  it  will  close.  Seat  is  perpendicular  and  chips  and  dirt 
fall  away  from  it.    A  touch  of  the  foot  will  turn  the  heat  on  or  off.    No  packed  joints  to  leak 

on  floor  or  carpet.    Patented  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.    Circulars  on  apptotion 

Mention thE chktukv  UTICA   STEAM   GAUGE   CO.  Utica,  W.  Y- 


Who  has  not  had  POOR  HOSE? 

Do  not  waste  your  money  on  inferior  hose,  but  get  the 


The  Spiral  Hose  is  the  only  reliable  Cotton  Hose, 
which  is  proven  by  there  being  so  many  imitations. 
The  genuine  has  FOUR  distinguishing  marks  : 

I.  A  single  colored  line  running  through  it. 
II.  The    patent     mark     "  SPIRAL,"    patented 
March  30,  1880. 

III.  The    Corrugated    hand     fastening    hose    to 

coupling. 

IV.  Corrugated  coupling  as  shown  in  cut. 

The  "Spiral"  Cotton  Hose,  having  no  outside 
covering  to  hold  moisture  as  rubber  hose  does, 
dries  like  a  towel.     Insist  on  getting  this  Hose, 
as  some  dealers  will  try  to  sell  an  inferior  one. 
Sample  free  if  you  mention  The  Century. 

BOSTON  WOVEN  HOSE  CO. 

Manufacturers  of  Rubber  Belling  and  Packing, 

226  Devonshire  St.  Boston. 

222  Lake  St  Chicago.  8  Bush  St  San  Francisco. 


^^^EO^SS 


f-W-DEV0Et<8 

ESTAbLISMED  ,1852.. 

Of  f  ICE5:C?.R.'f  ULTON  &  WILLlAn-513 
NEW  YOr\fo 


MATERIALS. 


SKETCHING   OUTFITS® 

OF  ALL  KINDS 

TUDE  C°L°RV  WATERC°L?RS-CRAYoN5 

DRAWING  PAPER:  CANVAV5RU5HE5"  0IhS9  AEDIUA5- 

AATliEnATICAb,  INSTRUMENTS 

HOUSE  PAINTERS  COLORS 
FRE5C90>IPRS-FINE  VARNISHES 

Correspondence  invited •Ca.tSlo§ues_cf  our  different 
departments  To  responsible  jiffies. 
COFFIN-PEVOE  &  C9-176  RANDOLPHS7  CHICAGO 


mm^y^msm 


S  CARRIAGE  g 

S 


35 


Delivered  Free  East  of  Mississippi. 

Upholstered  in  Red,  Blue  or 

Brown  Damask  or  Satin- 

Parasols  to  match.  Adjustable  Top. 
Nickel-plated  Rod,  Springs,  Axles  and 
Braces,  which  we  guarantee.  Wire  or 
wooden  wheels  same  price. 

Satisfaction  guaranteed  or  money  refunded. 

JOHNSTON,  TALLMAN  &  CO. 

41  Barclay  St.,  46  Park  PI. 
NEW-YORK. 


WE    MANUFACTURE 

The  LARGEST  and  MOST 

COMPLETE  VARIETY  of 

CHILDREN'S    CARRIAGES 
in  the   UNITED   STATES. 

Send  for  Catalogue,  showing  50 
different  styles,  from  $6  to  $30.  As  we 
(are  manufacturers,  we  can  upholster  and 
furnish  our  carriages  to  suit  patrons  at  prices 
beyond  competition. 

FACTORY: 

387,  389  and  391  "West  12th  Street. 


.-  Similar  to    above,   from 

75  cents  per  foot  to  $1.25  per  foot. 

Send  for  Designs.       BRIGCS  &  LEIBIUS,  307  Summit  Street,  Toledo,  Ohio. 
DRAPERIES!  Art  Glass!  Rugs! 


Mantels! 


Bric-a-Brac. 


Window  Shades! 


EDDY'S  REFRIGERATORS 

Cold  Dry-Air  Circulation. 

ABSOLUTE    DEYNESS. 
Galvanized  Iron  Ice-Backs. 
Slate  Stone  Shelves. 
Perfect  Non-Conductor  Packing. 


Established  1847. 

300,000  in   Use. 

Highest  Quality  of  Workmanship. 
Simple,  Durable. 

Economical  in  Ice. 

Tree  from  Odor. 
Not  Liable  to  Get  Out  of  Order. 
Send  for  lllus.  Catalogue,  showing  over  20  different  styles,  32  pages,  size  6x9  in. 

Manuf 'd  by  D.  EDDY  &  SON,  Boston  (Dorchester  District),  Mass.,  0.  S.  A. 

The  Oldest  Refrigerator  Manufacturers  in  the  United  States. 

Selling  Agents : 

Lewis  &  Conger,  No.  6oi  Sixth  Ave.  N.  Y. 
W.  B.  Dayton  &  Son,  No.  603  Fulton  St. 

Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 
John  Wanamaker,  Philadelphia. 
J.  S.  Hopkins  &  Co.  No.  18  Baltimore  St. 

Baltimore,  Md. 
J.  P.  Dalton,  No.  51  State  St.  Chicago,  111. 


M.  W.  Beveridge,  No.  1009  Pennsylvania 

Ave.  Washington,  D.  C. 
New  England    Furniture  and  Carpet 

Co.  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
Milton  Rogers  &  Sons,  No.  1321  Farnum 

St.  Omaha,  Neb.;  and  by  Housefurnishing 

Stores  throughout  the  New  England  Statas. 


1MS> 


312    PEARL    STREET    (CORNER    OF    PECK    SLIP),    NEW-YORK. 

Only  Manufacturers  under  Morahan's  Patents  of  the  Celebrated 
SOLID    WHITE    CROCKERY    STATIONARY    WASH    TUBS. 

VERY  STRONG, 

WELL   GLAZED. 

CANNOT    LEAK, 

CANNOT   SMELL. 

Absolute   Cleanliness   secured    for   all    time 
without  labor. 

Cut  shows  3  Tubs  set  up  with  Gal- 
vanized Iron  Stand*  tt  Ash  Top. 

Ijp3  Send   for    Illustrations    and 
Price-List. 


THE  MARCHAL  &   SMITH    PIANO  COMPANY. 


;;i! *  i"li    ORGANS 

IB 

S>3f> 


ISTe  Sell  tliis  Piano  for  ||j  SO! 


IT  IS  OUR  No.  0.     74  OCTAVES 


,nvLU-     48  in-  high,  59  in.  long.     CATALOGUE    PRICE    $450 

THOROUGHLY  FIRST   CLASS.     /.     GUARANTEED    FOR    SIX    YEARS.    ' 

In  Fancy  Walnut  or  Mahogany  Finish,        -       -        $205. 


0br  Offer !  w 


E  will  send  this  Piano  on  approval,  and  if  after  trying 
it  in  your  home  you  do  not  want  it,  send  it  back  and 
we  will  pay  freight  both  ways.      We  send  with  the 

I...W**  1377.    IT,  21™ £te?  rttT  C0Ter- a  silk  p,ush  st001- 

More  than    50,000   OF    OUR    PIANOS   are    now    in    use. 

he    Mhrchrl   5^    Smith    Pihno    Compkny, 


Catalogue   Free. 


235  East  21st  Street,  New  York. 


Protect  your  furs,  woolens,  household  goods  and 
wearing  apparel  from  moths,  by  using  a  Mitchell 
Cedar  Chest. 

These  Chests  are  made  of  selected  red  cedar, 
mounted  on  casters,  and  have  iron  handles, 
strong  hinges  and  special  locks.  They  are 
neatly  finished,  and  are  the  best  ever  offered 
for  the  money. 


No.  i, 
No.  2, 
No.  3, 


Height. 

25'A  in- 
28      in. 

3°      in- 


Depth. 
22^  in. 
26      in. 
27lA  in. 


Length. 
38  in. 
42  in. 
50  in. 


Weight  on  car. 
100  lbs. 
120  lbs. 
135  lbs. 


Price. 
$11.00 
$12.00 
$13.00 


<*2^-Aa- 


These  prices  include  crating  and  delivery  on  board  cars  at  Cin- 
cinnati, and  are  for  cash  with  order  from  out-of-town  buyers. 

THE  ROBT.  MITCHELL  FURNITURE  CO. 
CINCINNATI,  O. 

For  thirty  cents  in  stamps  the  illustrated  catalogue  ol 
the  above  company,  containing  nearly  two  hundred 
large  pages  of  engravings,  descriptions  and  prices  of  all 
kinds  of  furniture,  will  be  sent  to  any  address,  post-paid. 


THE  SARGENT  MANUFACTURING  COMPANY, 

Factory  and  General  Office,  Muskegon,  Mich.       New-York  Office  and  Warerooms,  814  Broadway. 


SARGENT'S  RECLINING  CHAIRS 

There  is  no  condition  of  sickness  or  health 
for  which  we  cannot  furnish  a  suitable  chair. 

SARGENT'S  ROLLING  CHAIRS. 

Our  stock  includes  all  kinds,  for  house 
or  street ;  rigid  or  reclining ;  cane,  wicker 
or  upholstered ;  self  or  secondary  propulsion  ; 
maximum  quality  at  minimum  price. 

SARGENT'S  CARRYING 
CHAIRS. 

By  their  use  invalids  may  enjoy    a    change    of   scene, 
traveling  as  well  as  for  house  use. 


We    make    them    to    fold    for 


Sargent's  Solid  Comfort  Back  Rest  and  Patent  Folding  Bed  Tray. 

These  are  standard  the  world  over,  and  are  of  inestimable  value  in  sickness.  Prices  of  Back  Rests :  No.  I,  plain, 
$4.00 ;  No.  2,  with  arms,  $5.00 ;  No.  3,  with  head  rests,  $5.00 ;  No.  4,  with  arms  and  head  rest,  $6.00.  Prices  of 
Trays:     No.  1,  14x23  in.,  $3.00;  No.  2,  16x26 in.,  $4.00. 

Sargent's  Sanitary  Commodes  and  Commode  Chairs. 

Our  department  in  this  line  is  very  complete,  and  embraces  all  grades  from  the  cheapest  to  the  best.  It  also  includes 
the  celebrated  Heap's  patent  I>ry  Earth  Closets,  for  which  we  are  the  agents ;  adopted  by  the  U.  S.  and 
many  foreign  governments,  and  universally  accepted  as  the  best.     (Special  catalogue.) 

In  addition  to  the  above  we  have  full  lines  of  Crutches,  Sanitary  Rubber  Goods,  Hospital 
Supplies,  Invalid's  Berts  Invalid's  Tables,  Bidets,  Comfortable  Reading-  Ap- 
pliances, Revolving1  Rook  Cases,  etc.  Correspondence  invited.  Send  10  cents  in  stamps  for  fully 
illustrated  catalogue  of  100  pages.    Special  circulars  free.    Address 

SARGENT  MANUFACTURING  CO,  814  Broadway,  N.  Y. 

Tlie  Princess  Dressing-  Case.  The  only  per- 
fect combination  of  dressing  case  and  lavatory  on  the 
market.  It  combines  in  one  piece  a  bureau  with  four 
drawers  and  large  reversible  beveled  plate  mirror,  a 
commode  containing  zinc  tank  and  waste  jar,  marble 
slab,  porcelain  bowl  and  nickeled  faucet.  The  only  proper 
companion  piece  for  a  folding  bed. 

Finished  in  plain,  antique  and  sixteenth  century  oak, 
black  walnut,  birch  and  mahogany. 

If  there  is  no  agent  in  your  city,  send  for  catalogue  and 
price-list  to 

PRINCESS  DRESSING  CASE  CO. 


Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 


RENOWNED   FOR 

TONE  &  DURABILITY 

MODEEATE  PRICES 
EASY  TEEMS,  ESCHANGED. 

DELIVERED  FREE  WITHIN  20  MILES  OF  NEW  YORK  CITY 

Catalogue  Hailed  on  Application. 

1 1 0  Fifth  Ave.,  cor.  1 6th  Street. 

NEW  TORE  CITY. 


AwningBlind  Fixtures 

EASILY  ATTA6HED   TO 

OLD  OR  NEW  BLINDS. 

SIMPLE,  DURABLE,  CHEAP. 

Refreshing  Shade  and  Free  Circulation 
of  Air  insured  by  their  uset 

Mention  Width  of  Window. 
Samples,  post  paid,  $1. 
CARY  M'F'GCO.  Mechanicville.N.Y. 


BARGAINS  IN  WALL  PAPERS. 

The  largest  and  best  selected  stock  of  Wall  Paper  in  Phila. 
which  we  sell  to  the  consumer  at  wholesale  prices.  Samples  sent 
to  all  parts  of  the  United  States  FREE.  Send  for  samples  and 
compare  our  prices  and  quality  of  goods  with  others. 

HETHERINGTON  &  CO:207^?!!^ 
Bath  Cabinet.  Roiling  Chair. 

A  CURE  for  A  Priceless 
Rheumatism,  Boon  to  those 
Liver  and  Skin  who  are  unable 
Diseases,  Etc.     to  walk. 

RECLIK-HnTQ  chaibs, 

COUCHES,  COMODES,' 

BACK  BESTS,  BIDETS,  and  other 

INVALIDS'    FURNITURE 

Descriptive  Lists  Sent  Free. 

Our  Chairs  are  used  in  the  U.  S.  Hospitals. 

NATIONAL  CHAIR  CO., 
:ktew  haven,  conw. 


"CHAMPION"  DEED  OR  TREASURE  BOXES 

For  Indivtdmals  and  Bankers. 

A  very  com- 
plete assort- 
ment, both 
Keyed  and 
Keyless,  suit- 
able for  use  by 
every  Busi- 
ness Man  and 
Corporation. 

Special  out- 
fits made  to 
order.  Illus. 
Priced  Cata- 
logue free,  those  who  inclose  3  cts.  in  stamps  will  get,  with  the 
Catalogue,  our  new  Nick.  Steel  Pocket  Tool,  bearing  our  address 
and  always  acceptable. 
MH.UEB  LOCK    CO.  Frankford,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


WINDOW  CORD 

For  hanging  Sash  Weights. 
Send  for  Sample. 
SAMSON   CORDAGE  WORKS, 
164  High  St.  Boston,  Mass. 

INVALID 
ROLLING   CHAIRS 

Fully  equal  to  any  in  the  market  for  com 
fort,  strength,  durability  and  finish. 

MANUFACTURED   BY 

H.  S.  COLIGHTLY, 

203  Quarry  Street,  Phila.,  Pa. 

Send  for  price-list. 

World's  ONLY   Manufactory  of 

EXCLUSIVELY. -ALL  Styles  and  Sizes  for  use  of 
INVALIDS    AND    CRIPPLES. 

Self-  and    secondary     hand-propulsion,    in-doors 
and  out.     Comfort,   durability,  and  ease  of  move- 
ment unequaled.      Sole   Makers  of  the  Patented/ 
"  Rolling  Chairs  "  pushed  about  at  the  Centennial. ' 
For  Illustrated    Catalogue,  send  stamp,  and  men- 
tion The  Century. 

SMITH  WHEEL  CHAIR  CONCERN,  81  John  Street,  New-York. 


M 


EMORIAL  WINDOWS. 

Royal  Bavarian   Establishment. 
MAYER   <&   CO. 

Munich,  London,  and  124  West  23d  St.  New -York. 

Stained  GLASS    WINDOWS  of  superior  merit. 
Designs  submitted. 


ANCHOR  FOLDING  HAMMOCK  SUPPORT. 

Frame,  cherry  color;  canopy,  fancy  stripe  awning  cloth, 

The  Hammock  Support  and  Can- 
opy received,  and  entirely  satisfac- 
tory.   It  was  easily  put  up,  and  is 
everything  you  represented  it  to  be. 
ROBT.  A.  LOVELL, 

1st  Lieut.  U.  S.  Infantry, 

Davenport,  la. 
Send  for  illustrated  circular. 
GIFFORD  MFG.  CO. 
Watertown,  New- York. 


THE  "ECONOMY'WALL  DESK. 

Just  the  thing  for  your  Store,  your  Office,  and  your  Home,  and 
an  ornament  to  either. 

It  occupies  no  floor  space ;  it  will  accommodate  a  full  writing  outfit. 
Day-book,  Ledger,  etc. ;  is  easily  adjusted  to  the  wall  at  any  height. 

Read  what  the  Rev.  Lyman  Abbott,  D.  D. , pastor 
of  Plymouth  Church,  Brooklyn,  and  editor  of 
the  "Christian  Union,"  says: 

It  seems  to  me  the  biggest  multum  in  the  small- 
est parvo  I  have  ever  seen.  For  convenience  of 
packing  away  much  store  in  small  space  it  com- 
petes with  the  famous  bee  cells;  and  for  conven- 
ience of  getting  at  the  store,  the  bee  cells  are 
nowhere  in  comparison.  It  makes  easy  observance 
of  the  motto,  "A  place  for  everything  and  every- 
thing in  its  place."  If  any  words  of  mine  can  put 
this  desk  into  a  deskless  home,  I  shall  have  put 
that  home  under  obligations  to  me. 

(Signed)  LYMAN  ABBOTT. 

We  also  manufacture  the  "Favorite"  combination  desk.     The 
best  standing  desk  on  the  market. 
Send  for  catalogue  to 

CORTLAND   DESK   CO.   Limited, 
Cortland,  N.  Y. 


Rev.  Dr.  C.  C.  McCabe,  more  familiarly  known  as  "Chaplain" 
McCabe,  who  travels  from  one  end  of  the  land  to  the  other  m  the 
interest  of  missions,  writes  to  Mr.  Shoppell,  the  architect,  as  follows: 
"You  are  filling  the  land  with  beautiful  homes.  I  see  them  every- 
where. Your  plans  are  all  you  claim  for  them.  The  cheapest  houses 
may  be  beautifully  and  tastefully  built."  Hundreds  of  similar  letters 
at  Mr.  ShoppelPs  office. 

READ  ABOVE. 


READ  BELOW. 

Mr.  Shoppell  has  a  full  list  of  Classified  Designs  (estimates 
guaranteed)  —  the  most  helpful  aids  ever  devised  for  the  intending 
builder.  Every  design  is  beautifully  printed  on  plate  paper  (size  of 
page,  io1^  X14  inches),  with  full  descriptions  and  floor  plans.  Each 
set  or  "class"  is  inclosed  in  a  handsome  cloth  portfolio,  as  follows: 

*  Portfolio  of  $1,000  Houses,  30  designs,  Price  $2 


1,500 

2,000 

2,500 

3,000 

3,500 

4,000 

5,000 

6,000 

7,500 
10,000 
Stables 


30 
30 
30 
32 
36 
30 
30 
28 
22 
21 
19 


$2 


*  The  first  Portfolio  contains  designs  that  cost  as  low  as  $500, 
$600,  $700  and  $800. 

Any  3  of  the  above  Portfolios  for  $5;  any  7  for  $10;  the  complete 
set  (12)  for  $15.  Pamphlet  of  specimen  pages,  50c.  Large  bound 
volume  containing  over  200  designs  selected  from  the  portfolios  of 
various  costs,  $5,  returnable  if  not  satisfactory.  Address  R.  W. 
Shoppell,  Architect,  63  Broadway,  New-York.  Mention  Century. 


A 

The  soft  velvety  coloring  effect  so  desirable  for 
house  exteriors  can  only  be  obtained  and  perma- 
nently held  by  the  use  of 

CABOT'S      QHINGLE 
RE0S0TE  UTAINS. 

They  have  been  in  use  ten  years. 

Containing'  a  large  percentage  of  Creosote,  they 

preserve  the  Wood.    They  are  the  only 

exterior  stains  not  adulterated 

with  Kerosene. 

Thousands  of  houses  from  East  to  West  attest 
the  beautiful  soft  coloring  effect  they  give. 
Sketches  of  some  of  them,  and  also  samples  on 
Wood,  will  be  sent  on  application. 

SAMUEL  CABOT,  Sole  Manufacturer, 
70  Kilby  St.  Boston,  Mass. 

Mention  The  Century. 


. -~'~- "  -^ 

* .-  y            9 

_>- 

!9^r-~> 

■  #Jy*£ 

iHfef 

wiifSk 

§9fesi'' 

,1  -t    j~jMBJ8fi6 

tfiu 

Basg> 

ML**-* 

"Art  in  House  Building." 

g  Issued  in  April,  '90. 

vo  Before  building  your  house, 
o  do  not  fail  to  see  our  book  of  20 
£  finest  engravings  and  descrip- 
■"  tion  of  houses  selected  for 
o  Style-Comfort-Economy 
J?  ranging  in  price  from  $700.00 
S)  upwards.  Finest  -work  pub- 
o  lished.  Not  a  collection  of  old 
•£  designs,  but  all  entirely  new. 
•~  Price,  75c. .post-paid. 

H  Smith  &  Robinson,  Architects, 

Masonic  Temple,  Altoona,Pa. 


YOUR  CEILING  IS  CRACKED  AND  BROKEN. 


Look  at  something  NEW,  NEAT  and  DURABLE. 


Church. 
School. 
Hall. 
Theater. 


MwML    o   in  o 


v/ill  rjot  sK|rir|K  vvanp  or*  btirq 

||JiKe  woodo  0° 

,C*>r|  b?  put  or]  o\/er*  olcj 
\brol^en  plaster  without 
|mg55  or  dirt.        % 


^oo<j  P|cth*>iit* 


METAL 


V^ilL  rJoT  ^N    > 
OwK  of\  rVL  °*r% 


A. 


fCeitin^' 


Store. 
Parlor. 
Library. 
Kitchen. 


^5END  FDR  DESCRIPTIVE  CIRCULARS  DESIGNS  AND 
PHDTnGRAPH5,TD  A.NDRTHROP&.CO.    , 

SQLC  MANUFACTURERS.    PI  TTSB  OR&H.  P  A- 


NORTHROP  &  CO-   Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

HINMAN  &  SON,  Sole  Agents  for  Chicago  and  vicinity,  Office  4232  Cottage  Grove  Avenue,  Chicago,  111. 
May,  '90. 


REMOVED   to  74  West   23d   Street,  New -York. 


English  Venetian  Blinds. 


Rolling  Partitions. 


Rolling  Venetian  Blinds. 


Outside  Venetian. 


If  you  are  building  a  new  house,  or  have  an  old 
one  to  recover,  don't  fail  to  get  par- 
ticulars and  prices  of 

WALTER'S   PATENT,  ) 

COOPER'S  PATENT,  [  SH     NGLES 
SHEET  METAL,  )   v^l,,,1^'-l-v 

Made  from  Tin  and  Steel  plate,  Galvanized  tin 
plate  and  Copper. 

To  be  used  where  a  durable  fire-proof  or  ornamental  roof  is 
desired,  and  the  pitch  of  roof  is  equal  to  that  necessary  in  using  the 
ordinary  shingle.     Catalogues  free. 

NATIONAL  SHEET  METAL  ROOFING  CO. 

510  East  20th  Street,  New- York  City. 


flRQUET  FLOORHIG 

-^       139  FIFTH  AVENUE,  NEW- YORK. 

Designs  in  satinwood,  mahogany,  oak,  cherry,  etc.,  Louis  XVI., 
Moorish,  Japanese  and  other  styles  to  harmonize  with  wood-work. 
Wood  Carpeting  at  low  cost.  THESE  FLOORS  ARE 
EASILY  LAID  BY  A  GOOD  CARPENTER.  Full 
directions  and  plan  with  each  floor.     Send  for  Book  of  Designs. 

WALLACE    A.   BARTLETT, 

Principal  Examiner  U.  S.  Patent  Office,  1875  to  1883, 

SOLICITOR  OF  PATENTS, 

AMERICAN   AND   FOREIGN, 

Corner  7th  and  F  Streets,    -    -    WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 

Beautiful  and  Lasting  for  ORNAMENTING 
WINDOWS,    DOORS,     TRANSOMS,      &c. 

Stained 

Glass 

SUBSTITUTE 


ffimmmmmm 


AT    SMALL    COST.    Send  for  Illustrated   Cata- 
logue and  Prices.    Samples  by  mail  25  cents. 
Sole  Agent,  944  ARCH  ST. 
PHILADELPHIA,   PA. 
AGENTS      WANTED     EVERYWHERE. 


W.C.YOUNG 


THE    GRANVILLE    MOSAIC    WOOD    FLOORS. 

Mosaic.  They  are  NOT  glued  together  or  nailed  through  the  surface. 

They  are  NOT  ruined  by  shrinking  or  swelling,  but  are  of  the  most  durable  construction  and  lasting  beauty. 

No  Ornamental  Floor  possesses  all  the  essentials  to  an  equal  extent.  Not  injured  by  climatic  changes.  Never  becomes  loose  or  curls  up. 
Has  all  the  beauty  that  can  be  produced  by  the  use  of  natural  woods.  Is  laid  at  half  the  ordinary  cost.  Shipping  expenses  light.  Prices 
moderate.     Is  in  use  from  Canada  to  Texas  and  from  Boston  to  the  Pacific  Coast.         0.  S.  DICKINSON,  Proprietor,  Granviile,  Mass. 


Sheet  Metal  Ceiling  Center-Pieces.  Light,  dura- 
ble, cheap.  Beautifully  finished,  lusterless  white.  Easy 
to  put  up  on  new  or  old  ceilings  without  damage  to  plaster 
or  paper.  Order  now,  so  as  to  put  up  during  Spring 
house-cleaning.  Manufactured  by  W.  H.  Mullins, 
206  Depot  St.,  Salem,  Ohio.  J.  T.  Wagner,  Sales  Agent, 
108  Chambers  St.,  New- York.     Send  for  Catalogue. 


Dexter  Brothers'  English  Shingle  Stains. 


Many  people  are  disgusted  with  the  appearance  of  some 
shingled  houses.  Everybody  is  delighted  with  any  shingled 
house  which  has  been  done  with  our  stains. 

Yes,  sir,  you  can  use  the  water  from  the  roof  if  the  shingles 
are  stained  with  our  stains,  for  nothing  will  wash  off. 

No,  sir,  our  stains  have  no  offensive  smell  that  will  drive 
your  family  and  you  frantic. 

Yes,  our  stains  preserve  the  shingles  and  will  not  charcoal 
and  eat  the  fiber  of  the  wood.  The  fiber,  which  is  the  sinew 
of  the  shingle,  is  kept  alive  by  the  use  of  our  stains. 

It  is  cheaper  than  paint,  because  at  the  end  of  five  years 
you  can  give  it  another  single  coat  and  it  will  look  like  a 
new  stained  house. 

A.  package  of  stained  boards,  with  full  information,  mailed 
to  any  address  on  application. 

Mention 
The  Century. 


DEXTER  BROTHERS,  Sole  Manufacturers,  BOSTON,  MASS, 


This  House  for  $800. 

JUST    OUT- 

Second  edition  of  Houses  and  Cottages  enlarged 
from  33  to  50  designs,  many  entirely  new.  The  designs 
range  from  $300  up  to  $6000 ;  principally  of  low  cost ; 
nine  under  $1000;  twenty  under  $2000.  Full  description 
of  each  and  price  of  material  given  that  estimates  are 
made  upon.  Don't  Fail  to  see  it  if  you  intend  building. 
, Price,  $1.25,  post-paid  (two-cent  stamps  taken  for  un- 
even change).     Size  of  Book  8x  10  inches,  102  pages. 

D.  S.  HOPKINS, 

Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 


8 

A 

rjfljjjnr 

ibid 

No.  4001  That    Beautiful,     Ornamental    and    Decorative    Wood-work 

for   Doors,  Transoms,   Arches   and    Windows   known   as    MOORISH     FRET- WORK    is   manufactured    (only)    by 

C.    S.    RANSOM    &    CO.    Cleveland,   Ohio. 

I  here  is  no  limit  of  design  into  which  this  work  can  be  made.  It  is  made  of  any  domestic  or  imported  woods,  finished  natural,  stained 
or  in  white  and  gold  or  bronzes.  All  leading  decorating,  drapery  or  furniture  houses  will  supply  you.  Patented  as  an  article  of  manufac- 
ture September  i5,  1885.  New-York    office,    10    West    28th    street. 


GATES  ROCK  AND  ORE  BREAKER. 


CAPACITY  IN  TONS  OF  2000  POUNDS. 


Size  o —   2  to    4  tons  per  hour. 
"     i—   4  to    8 

"      2 —    6  tO  12  "  " 

"     3  —  io  to  20  "  " 


Size  4 —    15  to    30  tons  per  hour. 
'    5—   25  to    40 
"    6 —  30  to    60        "       " 
"    7—  40  to    75        "       " 
"    8  — 100  to  150        "       " 

Passing  2.%.  inch  ring,  according  to  character  and  hardness  of  material. 

Creat  SAVING    in    POWER.     Adjustable  to  any  Degree 

of  Fineness. 

The  principle  involved  in   this   Breaker  acknowledged  to  be   the   greatest 
success  ever  introduced  into  Stone-Breaking  Machinery. 

The  Gates  Breaker  has  made  more  railroad  ballast  and  road  metal  than  all 
other  kinds  of  breakers  combined. 

Universally   Adopted    by   Mining  Companies.    Many 
Hundreds  Used   by  Railway  Companies. 

Will  furnish  a  thousand   references  from  Contractors,  Street  Sup'ts, 
Mines,  Cement  Manufacturers,  etc.,  etc. 

ALSO   MANUFACTURE 


THE    CORNISH   ROLLS   PULVERIZER. 
Fine  Crushing   Plants,  Concentrators  and   other   Mining   Machinery 

Address,    for    CATALOGUE, 

GATES    IRON    WORKS, 

56  South  Clinton  St.  CHICAGO. 


73a  Queen  Victoria  St.  London. 


12  Cortlandt  Street,  New-York. 


215  Franklin  St.  Boston,  Mass. 


Barnes'  Foot-Power  Machinery. 

Workers  of  Wood  or  Metal, 

Withoutsteam  power,  using  outfits  of  these  Machines, 
can  bid  lower,  and  save  more  money  from  their  jobs,' 
than  by  any  other  means  fordoing  their  work.   Also  for 

Industrial  Schools  or  Home  Training. 

With  them  boys  can  acquire  journeymen's  trades 
before  they  "go  for  themselves."      Price-List  Free. 

W.  F.  &  JOHN  BARNES  CO. 

No.  596  Ruby  Street,  Rockford,  111. 


Patent  Foot-Power  Machinery 

COMPLETE    OUTFITS. 

Wood  or  metal  workers  without  steam  power 
can  successfully  compete  with  the  large  shops, 
by  using  our  New  LABOR-SAVING 
Machinery,  latest  and  most  improved  for  prac- 
tical shop  use;  also  for  Industrial  Schools,  Home 
Training,  etc.     Catalogue  Free. 

Seneca  Falls  Mfg.  co. 

674  Water  St.  Seneca  Falls,  N.  Y. 


BEERLESS  BRICK  CO 
adelphia,  Pa.  Main  offiws,  201  &  202  Master  Builder's  Ex.  27  S.  7th  St. 


Plain,  Pressed  Front,  Ornamental  &  Molded  Bricks. 

Works-70  ACRES-Old  York  Road  and  Nicetown  Lane.' 
16,000,000  Bricks  Annually.  5,000,000  Pressed  Front  Bricks 

Illustrated  Catalogue  of  Hundreds  o!  Oesigns  and  of  MANTEL  PIECES,  with  price  lists  and  estimates,  sent  FREE  on  application 
Bricks  of  the  Best  Finish  and  Quality— in  Red,  Buff,  Brown  and  other  colors— shipped  to  all  parts  of  the  country 
Pressed  Brick  supplied  in  large  quantities  of  the  same  shade  of  color;  and  Bricks  tor  Arches  ground 

and  fitted  to  any  required  radius. 


BRICK  MACHINERYiTILE 

Capacity  10,000  to  100,000  per  day 


MACHINERY 

Full  FACTORY 
OUTFITS. 


8  DIFFERENTKlNDS 
BRICK  MACHINES. 

PUG  MILLS,  CLAY 

CRUSHERS, 

RE-PRESSES, 

DUMP   CARS, 

ELEVATORS,  ETC. 


Address  THE  FREY,  SHECKLER  COMPANY,  BUCYRUS,  OHIO,  U.  S.  A 


"Pure  Air  Ventilating  Grate. 


D 
H 

w 
U 

w 
X 

H 


Pure  fresh  air  from  out  of  doors  positively 
heated.  It  will  warm  more  cubic  feet  than  any 
grate  ever  before  offered  to  the  public;  the  extra 
heat  from  hot-air  chamber  is  greater  than  that 
from  a  iox  14  register  of  the  best  furnaces.  Fire 
maintained  without  trouble.  Largest  variety  of 
tiles  for  fire-places  and  floors  in  New  England. 
Manufacturers  of  brass  and  wrought -iron  fenders, 
andirons,  etc.  Send  10c.  stamp  for  200-page 
catalogue  or  stamp  for  circular  only. 

MURDOCK  PARLOR  GRATE  CO. 

18  Beacon  St.  Boston,  Mass. 


Hot  Air  Furnaces  have  been  in  disfavor  with 
some  by  reason  of  the  many  imperfect  construc- 
tions used.  The  Magee  Boston  Heaters  will  give 
better  satisfaction  at  a  less  cost  than  any  hot  water 
or  steam  apparatus  ever  used.  We  guarantee 
them  in  every  respect  when  properly  put  in ;  and 
when  desirable  to  apply  hot  water  it  can  be  used 
in  combination.  Send  for  descriptive  circulars 
with  references. 

Mag-ee  Ranges  and  Heating  Stoves  have  also 
a  world-wide  reputation. 

MAGEE  FURNACE  CO. 

32  to  38  Union  St.  Boston.      86  Me  St.  Chicago. 


Richardson  V  Boynton  Go's 


a 


Perfect"  Hot-Water  Heater. 


The  most  Powerful  and  Economical 
Heater  ever  made. 

Nyack,  N.  Y.,  March  10,  1890. 

Richardson  &  Boynton  Co. : 

Gentlemen  :  Last  year  I  placed  one  of  your  "  Perfect  " 
Hot-Water  Heaters  in  my  house,  and  it  has  proved  a  grand 
success.  The  atmosphere  is  delicious,  and  the  absence  of  all 
noise,  dust,  ashes  and  gas,  makes  it,  in  my  opinion,  the 
"  Ne  Plus  Ultra"  of  a  heating  system. 

Your  "  Perfect"  Water  Heater  is  simple,  safe  and  easily 
managed,  and  I  can  say,  without  exaggeration,  that  it  does 
all  you  claim  for  it.     I  can  cheerfully  recommend  it  to  all 
who  desire  a  perfect  system  of  hot-water  heating. 
Yours  respectfully, 

CHAS.   H.  MEEKER. 

Send  for  Circulars  and  Testimonials. 

RICHARDSON  &  BOYNTON  CO. 

Manufacturers, 

232  &  234  Water  Street,  New -York. 
84  Lake  Street,  Chicago. 


WHAT  $300  K  HOUSE  HEATING, 

Few  are  awn  re  that  a  Modern  Steam  or 
Hot- Water  Heating  job,  which  will  work 
automatically,  run  noiselessly,  and  reduce 
your  coal  bill  35  per  cent,  over  the  hot-air 
furnace,  can  be  put  in  an  ordinary  house  for 
this  sum.    Our 

FURMAN  BOILER 

HAS  ADVANTAGES  OVER  ALL OTHERS. 

It  will  put  the  Heat  where  you  want  it.    No  Dust,  No  Gas. 

We  carry  in  stock  30  sizes.  Work  erected  anywhere  in  the  United  States. 
Estimates  free  for  the  smallest  house  or  largest  block  or  church.  Satisfaction 
guaranteed.    Send  for  100  page  Illustrated  Book  on  Heating  and  Ventilation. 

Address  HERENDEEN  MFG.  C0.16  ELM  STREET, GENEVA,  N.  Y. 

The 'ECONOMY  SYSTEM 

OF 

Direct   and   Indirect 

STEAM  AND  WARM  AIR  HEATING 

Is  THE  BEST  for  Sanitary  Heating 

Especially  adapted  for  warming 

RESIDENCES,    CHURCHES  AND   SCHOOLS. 
Send  for  new  Catalogue  of  the 


99 


ECONOMY    HEATERS 


MANUFACTURED    BY   THE 


STEAM   AND  WARM  AIR  COMBINED 


J.   F.   PEASE    FURNACE    CO. 

Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

NEW-YORK.  BOSTON.  CHICAGO. 

Sales  Agencies  in  all  large  towns. 


THE  H.  B.  SMITH  CO. 


MANUFACTURERS    OF 


Steam   and  Water   Heating   Apparatus 

For  Public  Buildings  and  Private  Residences. 
SPECIALTIES: 

MERCER'S  PATENT  IMPROVED  SECTIONAL  BOILER, 

For  Hot  Water  and  Steam  Heating.     Adapted  for  Wood,  Hard  or  Soft  Coal. 
GOLD'S  Improved  Sectional  Boilers.  "THE  UNION"  Hot- Water  Radiators. 

MILLS'  Safety  Sectional  Boilers.  GOLD'S  Indirect  Pin  Radiators. 

REED'S  Improved  Cast  Iron  Radiators.       BRECKENRIDGE'S  Pat.  Automatic  Air  Valves. 

Office  and  Warerooms:  137  Centre  Street,  New -York. 

FOUNDRY:  WESTFIELD,  MASS. 
May,  '90. 


MERCER    BOILER. 


HEATERS  and 
RADIATORS 

FOR 

HOT-WATER 

CIRCULATION. 


J* 


m 


& 


<$> 


x 


$f 


<t* 


The  mosthealthful  and 
economical  system  for 
heating  our  homes 
and  public  and 
private  build- 
ings. 


X 


# 


« 


& 


m 


-^*t*&s? 


^^  r!&^  ^^     ^^     ^/         /ore    weatf   winter 


Parties 
intending 
heating    be- 


& 


^ 


^ 


;<Sr 


& 


will   study  their  best 
interest  by  making  their 
contracts  early,  thus    avoid- 
ing the  Fall  rush. 


^^ 


SEND   FOR 

"HOW  BEST  TO  HEAT  OUR  HOMES," 

and  Testimonial  Companion.  Mention  Century. 


The  Glenwood  Range  is 
the  King  of  the  Kitchen. 


The  Weir  Stove  Co.  of  Taun- 
ton,   Mass.,   are    the    makers. 


FLORIDA 

STEAM  AND  HOT  WATER  HEATERS 

a 

n 
■o 

c 

H 

> 

5 

z 

m 
(/) 

H 

CO 

P 

0) 

X 
Fl 
D 

POSITIVELY    NON-EXPLOSIVE  —  ECONOMICAL- 
WILL  NOT  RUST  OUT— WILL   LAST  A  LIFE  TIME- 
IS  SELF-FEEDING— WILL    RUN    FROM    10  TO  24 
HOURS   WITHOUT   ATTENTION. 

THOUSANDS  *» THOUSANDS  IN  USE 

RELIABLE  AGENTS  IN  ALLTHE  LEADING  CITIES 

AND   TOWNS    IN   THE    UNITED    STATES. 

SEND    FOR    NEW   CATALOGUE. 

PIERCE,  BUTLER  &  PIERCE  MANUF'G  CO., 

SOLE    MANUFACTURERS,  SYRACUSE,     NY 


Q 
U 
Id 

\- 
Z 
< 
DC 

< 
D 
O 

> 
-J 
-I 
D 
la. 


"I  am  willing  to 
say  that  I  am  better 
satisfied  with  the 
cost  of  the  Heating 
Work  you  did  in  my 
house  than  with  any 
other  expense  of  re- 
finishing,  hardwood 
floors,  decorations, 
coverings,  etc." 


The  Warming  and  Ventilation  [Indirect]  of  modern  houses  by  Hot 
Water — the  intelligent  and  advanced  method  of  to-day — yields  delight- 
fully soft  and  fresh  warm  air ;  competent  to  maintain  70  degrees,  or  above, 
in  Zero  weather  or  below. 

In  this  method  " Direct"  Radiators  in  rooms  are  avoided.  The  HOPSON 
&  CHAPIN  M'F'G  Co.,  of  New  LONDON,  CONN.,  Engineers  and  Manufac- 
turers, at  their  own  Foundry  and  Machine  Works,  of  large  variety  of  Hot 
Water  Heating  Apparatus,  17  sizes  Hot  Water  Boilers,  "  H.  &  C."  pattern 
of  Indirect  Radiators,  seven  styles  of  Direct  Radiators,  will,  on  applica- 
tion, prepare  and  show  plans  specially  designed  for  any  residence  or 
other  building,  and  make  estimates  on  a  basis  of  moderate  charges  for 
commendable  work. 

The  DUNNING  Patent  Wrought-lron  BOILER 

WITH  SELF-FEEDING  COAL  MAGAZINE 

IS   THE    BEST   FOR 

Low  Pressure  Steam  or  Hot-Water  Heating, 

And  insures  a  warm  House  night  and  day.    Over  15,000  in  use. 

Keeps  steam  up  constantly.     Also  Steam  Engines  and 

Boilers  of  all  kinds  and  Machinery  generally. 

MANUFACTURED   AT   THE 

NEW-YORK    CENTRAL    IRON    WORKS, 

iark.  ^^  No.  67  Exchange  Street,  Geneva,  N.  Y. 

NEW-YORK    OFFICE,    36    PARK    PLACE. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Catalogue  with  full  description. 

IamousOilRanbb  a  household  blessing 

4  P0\Vtftf^j^flER5  ^0  JLAUNDRi  Housekeepers  who  appreciate  a  cool  kitchen  and  wish  to  simplify 

v,      a  rv  wu  ATTACHMENT  the  summer  cooking,  will  find  here  just  the  article  needed.     The 

Famous  Oil  Range  has  been  on  the  market  six  years,  and  thousands  of  them  are  in  use. 
It  is  unlike  other  oil  stoves  in  being  a  range,  with  four  large  cover  holes,  all  of  which  are 
available  for  cooking.  It  has  more  power  than  any  other  oil  cooking  apparatus,  and  is 
ready  for  use  as  SOOn  as  lighted.  It  is  simple,  economical,  cleanly  and  odorless.  It 
will  last  as  long  as  a  kitchen  range,  and  is  superior  to  it  for  baking  and  roasting.  It 
works  on  the  same  principle  as  the  Wire  Gauze  Oven  Door  as  used  on  the  well-known 
Hub  Ranges.  If  you  will  write  us,  we  will  put  you  in  the  way  of  getting  one  of  these 
stoves,  no  matter  what  part  of  the  country  you  live  in. 

SMITH  &  ANTHONY  STOVE  CO.  Boston,  Mass.    BRAND  STOVE  CO.  Milwaukee,  Wis. 
Manufacturers   of  the   "FAMOUS"    OIL    RANGE. 

(See  advertisement  in  March  and  April  Century.) 


ESTABLISHED   1849. 


INCORPORATED    1884. 


u 


Boynton"  Hot  Water  Heater 

(12)  Twelve  Sizes.     No  Brick-work  required. 

These  Heaters  are  operated  in  a  most  successful  manner  in  many  Residences, 

Schools,  Apartment  Houses  and  Greenhouses,  and  are  pronounced  by 

scientific  experts  the  most  effective,  economical,  and  of  the  best 

mechanical  construction,  of  any  on  the  market. 

.   MANUFACTURED    ONLY   BY 

THE    BOYNTON    FURNACE   CO. 

47  &  49  Dearborn  St.,  CHICAGO,  ILL.  207  &  209  Water  St.,  NEW-YORK. 

I^SEND  FOR  CIRCULAR.  =JSl 


He^tirxg?  of*  Homes  «t  Specialty. 

STEAM  Al 
OT  WATI 


VICTORh™drHEATERS. 


THE   RICHMOND    STOVE    COMPANY, 

NORWICH,  CONN. 

Isaac  Coffin  &  Co.        52  Sudbury  Street,  Boston. 

Steam  Engineering  Co.      ------      704  Arch  Street,  Phila. 

Dewstoe  &  Schneider,      -     -     -     -       159  Seneca  Street,  Cleveland. 

Webster  &  Meathe,    -------      73  Shelby  Street,  Detroit. 

L.  H.  Prentice  Co.  ------    205  Van  Buren  Street,  Chicago. 

Allan  Black, -----    St.  Paul,  Minn. 


THE  "SPENCE"  HOT  WATER  HEATER. 

Fitchburg,  Mass.,  March  7,  1890. 
Gentlemen:  In  reply  to  your  inquiry  of  the  6th  inst.,it  affords  me  great  pleasure  to 
express  to  you  the  entire  satisfaction  that  the  use  of  your  "  Spence  "  Heater  has  given  to  me 
and  to  my  customers. 

During  the  past  two  years  I  have  placed  more  than  40  of  these  Heaters,  and  it  is  but 
justice  to  you  to  state  that  for  simplicity,  durability,  economy  and  efficiency,  they  are  in  my 
opinion  superior  to  any  in  the  market. 

G.   M.  PARKS. 


National  Hot  Water  Heater  Co, 


THE    "SPENCE." 


BOSTON. 


OLIVER  SCHLEMMER,  Cin. 
CAHILL,  COLLINS  &  CO.  St.  Louis. 


CHICAGO. 


HEAT  YOUR  HOMES  »&■  BRONSON  BOILER. 


•  You  can  HEAT  your  HOUSE  by  STEAM  or  WATER 
for  as  little  MONEY  as  you  can  THOR- 
OUGHLY heat  by  furnace. 

SAVE  FUEL  AND  GET  A  COMFORTABLE  HOME. 

A  Water  Tube  Holler,  made  Brick-Set  or  Portable, 

with  Magazine  or  Surface  Burning. 

Write 

WESTON  ENGINE  G6.(«  Painted  Post,  N.  Y. 

For  Prices,  guaranteed  satisfactory. 

N.  Y.  City  Ag-ent:  H.  J.  BARRON,  74  Cortlandt  Street. 


STEAM   OR   WATER. 


FOR  WARMING 
DWELLINGS, 

HOSPITALS, 
GREENHOUSES, 

SCHOOLS,  Etc. 

Wrought  Iron.  Cannot  Crack. 

Vertical  Circulation.—  No  Bolted, 

Packed  or  Flanged  Joints  to  Leak. 

Brick  casing  prevents  waste 

of  heat  in  cellar. 


BOLTON 

HOT-WATER 

HEATER 

Hot-Water  and  Steam  Radiators, 
Weber  Straightway  Valves. 


Detroit  Heating  and  Lighting  Co. 


93  Lake  Street,  Chicago. 


Detroit,  310  Wight  Street. 


MANUFACTURERS,    ALSO,    OF    THE 


May,  '90. 


COMBINATION  GAS  MACHINE. 

Furnishes  Cheap,  Safe  and  Brilliant  Light  in  Country  Residences,  Churches, 
Stores,  Hotels,  Theaters,  etc.     Send  for  Circulars. 


WRIGHT  &  DITSON 

THE    LARGEST    MAKERS    OF 

Lawn  Tennis  Supplies 

In  the  World. 


OUR    SPECIALTIES: 


"  Sears's  Special,"  - 

"  Chase"  (new),  - 

"Pettitt,"         - 

"  The  Club  "  (new),    - 

"  Longwood,"  - 

"The  Park,"        - 

"Hub  "(new),  - 

"  Surprise,"  - 

Columbia  Marker, 

Portable  Marking-  Tapes,    - 

Taylor's  Patent  Poles, 

W.  &  D.'s  Improved  Poles,  - 

"Pettitt"  Shoes, 

$5.50,  $6.50, 


$7.00 
6.00 
5.50 
4.75 
4.00 
3.00 
2.50 
2.00 
6.00 
5.00 
O.OO 
5.00 

$8.00 


Wright  &  Ditson's 

"CHAMPIONSHIP"  BALL 

ADOPTED    BY    THE 

United  States  National  and  Intercollegiate 
JLawn  Tennis  Associations  for  1890. 

PRICE,  S48.00   PER   GROSS. 

FINE  LINE  OF  LAWN  TENNIS  CLOTHING 

And  Every  Requisite  for  the  Game. 


ONLY    OFFICIAL    Tennis    Guide    of 
the   United    States    National    Lawn 
Tennis  Association, 

WRIGHT  &  DITSON, 
Publishers, 

Containing"  Rules,   Photo- 
graphs      of     Leading 
Players,   Articles    on 
the   Game,  etc. 


OUR   AGENTS 


Schoverling,  Daly  &  Gales,    N.  Y.  City. 

E.  K.  Tryon,  Jr.,  &  Co.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

G.  P.  Thomas,  Jr.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Barber  &  Ross,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Owen,  Moore  &  Co.,  Portland,  Maine. 

Rhode  Island  News   Co.,  Providence,  R.  I. 

E.  B.  Clapp,  Worcester,  Mass. 

L.  H.  Mayott,  Springfield,  Mass. 

L.  C.  Dole,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

M.  E.  Viele,  Albany,  N.  Y. 

Nims  &  Knight,  Troy,  N.  Y. 

R.  Wood's  Sons,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Brown  &  Tyler,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

S.  O.  Barnum  &  Son,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

The  Burrows  Bros.  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 


C.  A.  Gump  &  Co.,  Dayton,  O. 
Griffith  &  Semple,  Louisville,  Ky. 
A.  H.  Smythe,  Columbus,  Ohio. 
Stanton  &  Davenport,  Wheeling,  W.  Va. 
H.  Watts  &  Co.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
E.  C.  Meacham  Arms    Co.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
J.  B.  Field  &  Co.,  Detroit,  Mich. 
Hibbard,  Spencer,  Bartlett  &  Co.,  Chicago,  III. 
Browning  Bros.,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Bainbridge  &  Corner,  San  Antonio,  Texas. 
P.  C.  Allan,  Toronto,  Canada. 
J.  F.  Schmelzer  &  Sons,  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  and  Leav 

enworth,  Kansas. 
The  Pounsford  Stationery  Co.,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


No.   580  Washington    Street,   Boston,   Mass. 

SEND   FOR    COMPLETE  ILLUSTRATED    CATALOGUE. 


SIBYLLE:  You  looked  just  as  selfish  as  handsome,  riding  up  the  driveway  just  now. 

SYDNEY:  But  I  came  expressly  to  invite  you  to  a  spin  with  that  new  Ladies'  Columbia  Bicycle  of  yours. 

SIBYLLE:  Oh!     Well,  my  sister  likes  it  so  much  that  she  rides  it  every  afternoon.     She's  off  with  it  now. 

SYDNEY:  Nevermind!     I'll  go  back  and  get  my  Columbia  Tandem. 

SIBYLLE :  Oh.     You're  just  as  generous  as  you  are . 

Illustrated  Catalogue  Free. 

POPE  MFG.  CO.,  77  Franklin  Street,  Boston. 

Branch  Horses :     12  Warren  Street,  New-York.     291  Wabash  Avenue,  Chicago. 

HAWK-EYE 


DETECTIVE 

CAMERA. 


VIEW 

CAMERA 


MAGAZINE 

CAMERA. 


AUTOMATIC 

CAMERA. 

ALL  IN  ONE. 

Draw  a  Bead,  Touch  the  Trigger,  and  the  Picture  is  Taken. 
The   Perfection   of  Instantaneous   Photographic   Apparatus. 

100    PICTURES    WITHOUT    RELOADING 


Prices,  $1  5  to  $50. 


AFTER  reading  Thos.  Stevens's  experi- 
ence with  the  Hawk-Eye  in  Interior 
Africa,  on  pages  1 7  to  20,  send  for  a  copy 
of  the  Hawk-Eye  booklet,  containing  full 
description  and  sample  picture. 

When  so  desired,  we  will  do  the  developing  mid  finishing. 

THE   BLAIR  CAMERA  CO.  Manufacturers,  AIS0JEAKcSB0RFAT1D 

BLAIR  REVERSIBLE   BACK,  ENGLISH  COMPACT,  and  other  CAMERAS,  LENSES  and  ACCESSORIES. 
FACTORIES".  471,  473,  475,  477,  AND  485  TREMONT  ST.  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Branches :  208  State  St.  Chicago,  111. ;  918  Arch  St.  Philadelphia,  Pa.     A  Iso  Sold  by  Dealers  in  Photo  Goods  everywhere. 


Why  do  people  advertise  ?   Did  you  ever  stop  to  think  of 

it?     Somebody  with  a  great  head  has  said  that  a  great  proportion  of  adver- 
tisers advertised  just  for  the  gratification  of  seeing  their  names  in  print. 

Now  we  can't  afford  to  pay  Century  prices  even  for  this  delightful  sen- 
sation. We  pay  for  this  space,  and  try  to  induce  you  to  read  this  through, 
in  the  hope  of  impressing  on  your  mind  one  fact :  — 

Victor  Bicycles  are  better  than  any  others  i 

Believing  this,  when  you  buy  a  bicycle,  you  will  buy  a  Victor.      Of  course 

you  want  the  best. 

OVERMAN   WHEEL  CO. 

MAKERS   OF 


BOSTON. 


Victor  Bicycles. 


WASHINGTON. 


OFFICE   AND    FACTORY: 

CHICOPEE    FALLS,    MASS. 
Illustrated  catalogue  free. 

THE    SMITH    &  WESSON 
SAFETY  HAMMERLESS   REVOLVER, 


IN  CALIBEBS  82  AND  38  / 100. 


Messrs.      Smith 
&    Wesson     re- 
ceived   the 

GOLD  MJEDAL. 

at  Paris  Expo- 
sition in  recog- 
nition of  the 
superior  quali- 
ties of  their  re- 
volvers. 


A  Perfect 

and 
Safe  Arm 

for  the 
House  and 

Pocket. 


The  latest  production  from  the  works  of  Smith  &  Wesson,  embodying,  in  addition  to  other  qualities  which  have  made  the  arms  of  this 
firm  so  popular,  new  and  valuable  inventions  insuring  absolute  protection  against  accidental  discharge  from  careless  handling.  Provided 
with  Automatic  Cartridge-Shell  Extractor,  Rebounding  Lock,  and  Patented  Safety-Device,  Hammer  and  Trigger  constantly  locked,  and 
discharge  by  any  but  the  proper  means  impossible. 

A  full  line  also  of  single-action,  double-action  and  Target  Revolvers  manufactured. 

Our  arms  are  made  entirely  of  best  -wrought  steel,  carefully  inspected  for  workmanship  and  stock,  and  guaranteed. 

Do  not  be  deceived  by  cheap  imitations  of  our  goods,  nearly  all  of  which  are  made  largely  of  malleable  cast  iron,  are  of  inferior  work- 
manship, unreliable  and  dangerous,  and  often  sold  as  the  genuine  Smith  &  Wesson  revolvers. 

All  of  our  revolvers  are  stamped  on  the  barrels  with  our  firm  name,  address  and  dates  of  patents. 

Send  for  descriptive  catalogue,  and  if  your  dealer  cannot  supply  you,  an  order  sent  to  address  below  will  receive  prompt  and  careful 
attention. 

SMITH    &   WESSON,  Springfield,  Mass. 


Peck  &  Snyder's  Celebrated  Tennis  Rackets. 

THE  BEECKMAN  LEADS  THEM  ALL. 


All  the  Championship  winners  are  using  them  in  preference  to  all  others. 
REDUCED  PRICES  FOR  1890. 

No.  ^ach*  No-  Each. 

4.  The  Beeckman  Club,      $4.00  I  6.  The  Beeckman  Tournament,  $6.00 

5.  The  Beeckman  Expert,    5.00  |  7.  The  Beeckman  Special,  7.00 


No.  7. 


Our  1890  Match  Tennis  Ball,  35  cts.  each;  $4.00  per  doz.  The  Revised 
Playing  Rules  for  1890,  with  Price  List,  by  mail,  10  cts.  Our  complete 
294-Page  Illustrated  Catalogue  of  all  out  and  in  door  sports  sent  on  receipt 
of  five  two-cent  stamps  for  postage. 

PECK  &  SNYDER,  Manufacturers, 

124,  126  and  128  Nassau  St.  N.  Y. 


Q 


ite  Welcome 

to  a  copy  of  our  little  book 
"How  to  Make   Photographs." 
Your  name 
is  all    suffi- 


ceive  a  copy 
containing 
catalogue    of 

graphic 
Our   stock  is 
co  mplete . 
from   $2.50 


and  address 
cient  t  o  re- 
of  this  book 
an  illustrated 
our    photo- 

goods. 
varied      and 
Outfits      cost 
upward. 


The  Scovill  &  Adams   Co., 
423  Broome  St.,  New  York. 


$35  to  $100 

SendstampforlllustratedCatalogue. 

GEO.  R.  BIDWELL, 

313  West  58th  Street, 

NEW-YORK. 


TRICYCLES 

Boys'  & 

Girls' 

Delight. 


BABY  WAGONS 

All 
Grades. 


Save    money  by  buying   from   the 
makers.     Send  for  prices. 

New  Haven  Rattan  Co. 
New  Haven,  Conn. 


"  ECLIPSE  ■  —  MONTAUK — SEABRIGHT  SPECIAL— 
and  CASINO  BACKETS  for  1890  are  unsurpassed.  Send 
for  Tennis  Catalogue.    Special  Rates  to  Clubs. 


68 


to  • 

£-2  8 

a 


5   <r.   H 

—      ',;!> 

fl  rt-£ 

©    N    _ 

u  o  a 

©si 

as  i 

°  J? 

0)  U-i 

a  a 

HlH 


MANUFACTURE 


Xil 

CO  H 

£L-y*o^ 
-  "  xs 
■€/^  K 

M      O     rt 

V  P.  Cd 


W: 


P  q  o 

JftS'rt 


W     CD 


o  f» 

81 


BROTHERS  of  theANGLE. 

Our  New  Eight-strip  Split  Bamboo  is  the  "  King "  of  all 

Fishing-rods.  Chubb's  New  Catalogue  for  1890  is  now  ready.  In  addi- 
tion to  a  complete  list  of  anglers'  supplies,  it  contains  articles  from  the 
pens  of  Dr.  James  A.  Henshall,  Petronella,  W.  H.  H.  Murray,  Geo. 
P.  Goff,  Norman,  Brother  Gardner,  and  others. 

These  papers  are  by  the  best  writers  on  angling  subjects,  and  are  very 
interesting. 

Send  25  cents,  and  receive  Catalogue,  post-paid.  This  amount  will 
be  deducted  from  first  order  (if  accompanied  with  Coupon  in  book)  foi 
one  dollar's  worth  or  more  of  our  goods.         Address 

THOS.  H.  CHUBB, 

The  Fishing-rod  Manufacturer, 

Post  Mills,  Vt. 

Please  mention  The  Century. 


New  Kodak  Cameras 


"  You  press  the  button,  we  do  the  rest!' 

(or  you  can  do  it  yourself.) 

Seven   New  Styles  and   Sizes 

ALL  LOADED   WITH 

Transparent  Films. 


I^'For  Sale  by  all  Photo.  Stock  Dealers. 


THE    EASTMAN    COMPANY,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 


Send  for  Catalogue. 


Makes  Two  Hundred  and  Thirty-seven  different  styles  of 
FISHING  KEELS  in  sizes  from  twenty-five  to  three  hundred 
yards. 

All  styles  and  sizes  of  Flush  Handle,  Rubber  Plate  and 
Multiply ers  are  SCREWED  REELS  constructed  with  Inter- 
changeable Parts  the  same  as  gun  or  sewing-machine  parts.  Our 
REELS  are  made  with  improved  automatic  machinery,  operated 
by  the  best  skilled  labor,  and  are  Superior  in  Construction  and 
Finish,  and  are  indisputably  the  best  line  of  REELS  made. 

Prices,  from  25  Cents  to  $10.00.  All  first-class  dealers  sell 
them.  Send  for  our  Catalogue,  and  we  will  send  any  kind  of  Reel 
by  mail  on  receipt  of  price. 

THE  ANDREW  B.  HENDRYX  CO.  New  Haven    Conn. 


^sL0CvtfA>' 


LAWN    TENNIS    IN.    OUR    OWN    COUNTRY! 

A  new  book  on  Lawn  lenms,  containing  upwards  of  200  pages,  by  H.  W.  Slocum,  Jr., 
(Champion  of  America),  beautifully  illustrated  with  photographic  scenes  of  famous  games 
and  strokes;  also  portraits  in  Half  Tone  of  the  leading  players  of  the  country;  in  elegant 
cloth  binding.     Per  copy,  $1.00.     In  handsome  paper  binding,  50  cents. 

SPALDING'S    TOURNAMENT    TENNIS    BALL  for  1890. 

AT  LAST  A  PERFECT.  BALL.  Strict  -weight,  uniform  elasticity,  smooth  seayns, 
even  surface.  Every  ball  carefully  tested,  wrapped  in  tin-foil,  packed  and  sealed  3  in  a 
box,  thus  securing  protection  from  dampness  and  consequent  loss  of  elasticity.  Price,  per 
dozen,  $4.50,  or  $48.00  per  gross. 

Note. — As  an  advertisement  of  the  New  Tournament  Ball,  also  the  New  Tennis  Book, 
we  inclose  in  each  box  containing  three  balls  the  following  certificate  : 

"This  is  to  certify,  that  on  the  return  to  us  of  TWELVE  OF  THESE  CERTIFI- 
CATES, the  sender  will  be  entitled  to  one  copy,  in  elegant  cloth  binding,  of  the  new  work 
by  H.  W.  Slocum,  Jr.,  'Lawn  Tennis  in  our  own  Country.'  On  the  return  of  SIX 
CERTIFICATES,  a  copy  in  handsome  paper  binding.  Thus,  by  using  the  Spalding 
Tournament  Ball,  the  best  ever  made,  a  free  copy  of  this  elegant  book  is  secured  for  every 
lot  oi certificates  returned  (as  specified)  to  us."  Spalding's  Summer  Sports  Catalogue  for 
1890,  free  on  application.  Spalding's  Base-Hall  Guide  for  1890.  Price,  10c.  Mailed  to  any 
address  on  receipt  of  price. 

A.   G.   SPALDING    &    BROS. 

CHICAGO,  108  Madison  St.    NEW-YORK,  241 -243  Broadway.    PHILA.  1022  Market  St. 


FIREWORKS. 


FOR    JULY   4th. 

DELIVERED  FREIGHT  FREE! 

Send   for  our   Catalogue   and   Price  List,   in  which  we  offer 
Private  Displays  &  Collections  of  the  Highest  Grade  fireworks 

IN  ASSORTED  BOXES  FROM 

ONE  DOLLAR  TO  ONE  HUNDRED  DOLLARS 

in  value,  with  full  directions  for  use,  and  save  the  consumer  fifty 
per  cent,  who  orders  direct  of  us.  These  assortments  have 
received  the  unqualified  indorsement  of  thousands  of  customers 
since  their  first  introduction  in  1870.     CATALOGUES  SENT  FREE. 

MASTEN  &  WELLS,  Manfrs. 

18  HAWLEY  ST.  BOSTON,  MASS. 


HORACE  PARTRIDGE  &  ©O. 

MAKERS  OF  THE 

Best  Lawn  Tennis  Rackets  Known 


AMERICAN  TATE 

EXPERT  ENGLISH   STRINGING. 


Unequaled  BALANCE,  STRINGING, 
FINISH  and  STRENGTH. 

No  Racket  so  Popular  with  Expert  Players. 

The  price  of  this  Racket  in  the  "Expert  English   Stringing- "  is   $7.00;  in  Tournament 

Stringing  (reliable  English  gut),  $6.00 ;  and  in  Prize  Stringing  (best  French  gut),  $5.50. 

OTHER  POPULAR  RACKETS: 

The  Champion  (new),  $5.00        Eclipse,  $4.00         Peerless,  $4.00       Standard,  $3.00 
Practice,  $2.50  No.  lO,  $2.00  No.  5,  $1.00 

Sent,  Postage  Free,  to  any  part  of  the  country  on  receipt  of  price. 

HORACE  PARTRIDGE  &  CO.  497  and  499  Washington  Street,  Boston. 


PLEASURE 

BOATS  and  CANOES. 


Oars,  Rowlocks, 
Masts,  Sails,  etc. 

Everything  necessary  for 
a  first-class  outfit. 


The  largest  and  finest  assortment  in  the  world. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Catalogue. 

J.  H.  RUSHTON,  Canton,  M".  Y. 

STEAM  YACHTS,  ROWBOATS  AND  CANOES. 


Racine  Automatic  Oil-Burning  Outfits.  Fuel,  either 
Crude  Oil  or  Kerosene.  Automatic  Fire,  Automatic  Steam 
Regulator,  Automatic  Water  Regulator,  Automatic  Engineer  after 
starting.  Automatic  cleanliness  and  safety;  in  short,  a  genuine 
Automatic    Success. 

Also  Racine  Automatic  Stationary  Engines,  same  fuel.  Also 
Racine  Automatic  Pumping  Outfits,  same  fuel. 

Also  manufacturers  of  the  celebrated  Racine  Canoes,  Rowboats 
and  Hunting  Boats  (not  automatic).  Send  stamp,  specifying  cata- 
logue desired,  Yacht,  Boat  or  Stationary  Engine. 

THOMAS  KANE  &  COMPANY,  Chicago,  111. 


Photographic 

Materials, 

And  every  description  of  first-class 

Photographic  Apparatus. 

Cameras,  Lenses,  Stands,  Print- 
ing Frames,  Dry  Plates,  Sensi- 
tized and  Albuminized  Papers, 
Chemicals,  etc. 

Amateur  Outfits  in  great  variety  from 
$8.00  upwards. 

L.  M.  PRINCE  &  BRO. 

148  W.  Fourth  St.  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Catalogue  of  200  pages,  with  complete 
instructions  of  How  to  make  Pictures, 

sent  on  receipt  of  20  cents  to  pay  for  postage. 

SURVEYORS'  AND  ENGINEERS' 

Transits,  Levels,  Compasses,  Chains, 
Tapes,     Drawing     Instruments, 
Drawing  Paper  in  sheet  or 
roll,  Profileand  Cross-Sec- 
tion Paper  Field  Books, 
Squares,  Triangles, 
India       Ink, 
Brushes, 
etc. 

Catalogue  sent  on  application. 

L.  M.  PRINCE, 

Optical  and  Mathematical 

Instrument  Maker, 

148   WEST    FOURTH  ST. 

CINCINNATI,  O. 


LOVELL  DIAMOND  SAFETY. 


Diamond  Frame,  steel  drop  forgings,  steel  tubing, 
adjustable  ball  bearings  to  all  running  parts, 
including     pedals,    suspension    saddle, 
finest  material  money  can  buy,  fin- 
ished in  enamel  and   nickel. 
STRICTLY   HIGH  GRADE   IN    EVERY  PARTICULAR. 
No  better  machine  made  at  any  price, 

BICYCLE    CATALOGUE    FREE. 

JOHN  P.  LOVELL  ARMS  CO.  Mfrs.  Boston,  Mass. 


Read  this  offer  of  a  Complete 

FISHING  OUTFIT  ofh°lry  $1. 

All  the  articles  in  this  outfit  are  of  first-class  workmanship  and 
material,  and  nowhere  can  you  get  such  an  outfit  for  several 
times  the  money.     It  cannot  fail  to  satisfy  the  most  critical. 

THE  OUTFIT  CONSISTS  AS  FOLLOWS: 

A  fine  jointed  Rod,  complete  with  all  fittings.  A  fine  polished 
Brass  Reel.  Two  extra  fine  heavy  lines,  suitable  for  trout  or  salmon, 
extra  length.  Two  good  every-day  lines.  One  dozen  bestimported 
hooks,  assorted  sizes.  Two  trout,  one  bass  and  one  salmon  flies  of 
the  best  and  most  approved  styles  are  included;  also,  two  Snell 
Hooks  and  Gut,  guaranteed  not  to  cut,  together  with  a  Bait  Box. 

We  will  deliver  this  outfit  to  you  promptly,  and  guarantee  satisfac- 
tion, on  receipt  of  One  Dollar. 

Address  the  W.    F.    BISHOP     CO. 

L.a  Grange,  Illinois. 

THE  EAGLE 

THE  EASIEST  RUNNING  BICYCLE 

IN  THE  WORLD. 
J@®=Speed,  Comfort  and  Safety. 
AGENTS  WANTED. 
Large  Illustrated  Catalogue  sent  Free  to  any  Address. 
THE  EAGLE  BICYCLE  MFG.  CO., 


CRIPPLES 

and  invalids  find  FAIRY  Tricycles  the 
most  practical.  Best  for  ladies  and  girls. 
Satisfaction  guaranteed.  Athletic  Goods 
andBICYLESat  retail,  at  lowest  prices. 
Address  FAY  MFG.  CO.  Elyria,  O. 


THE  VIRGIL 

iRACTICE 


|  A  Silent  PImm.    Superior  tor 

perfecting    Tachnlo  *rad 

learnlftr  f>9ecoa.     Indorsed 

•nd  In  dally  nse  by  the  greatest  artist*  nod 

(••chore.   Establishes  m  new  ftftd  superior 

system  lo  the  study  of  the  Plana* 


LAVIER 

,Tou  ar*  Invited  to  call 
•art  are  It)  or  j.nd  rof 
descriptive  Catalogue. 

VIRGIL  P.  C.  CO. 
12E.17thSt.N.Y. 


Stops  the  Annoy anck  of  Piano  Drumming. 


New  VINEYARD.  RICYCLF^ 

All  Steel,  rubber  tire  BlvlUlaliV 


High  grade,—  cowhorn  bars,  spade  handles, 
.Kirkpatrick  saddle ;  Warranted  one  year. 
50-in.  worth  $55,  for  $32 1  44-in.  worth  $40,  for  $22 
48-in.  worth$50,  for$27    42-in.  worth$35,  for$20 
CATA.  FREE.       46-in.  worth  $45,  for  $25 1  38-in.  worth  $30,  for  $17 
Tangent  spokes  $1  extra.  Easy  payments.  Agts.wanted. 
BOUSE,  HAZABD  &  CO.,    6    Q  Street,  Peoria,  111. 


10aInut5tocK,Adju5tahIeSi6hts; 
AnEFFecUuclUeapon.^f|jQD 


tSeHENRYDHARTMFGCO. 

DETRCIT.MICH.U.S.A 


heroes  N9tPaid.<?n 
ebeiptOf  #2  BO 


SAVE  MOBTEY.  Before  y*u  buy  TYP  ES^~ 

UmK 


BICYCLE  or 


Send  to  A.  IT.  GUMP  &  CO.,  Dayton,  Ohio,  for  prices.  New 
Bicycles  at  reduced  prices  and  400  second-hand  ones.  Difficult 
repairing.    Bicycles,  Guns  and  Type  V^riters  taken  in  exchange. 


BOWDISH  MFG.  CO.  Skaneateles,  N.  Y. 

BUILDERS    OF 

FINE  BOATS,  CANOES  AND  LAUNCHES. 

Marine  and  Stationary  Engines,  Water- Tube  Boilers,  Etc. 

Send  8  cents  for  Catalogue.       First-class  work  only. 


Many  People  Wonder  What  P.  D.  Q.  Means ! 

It  Means  Photography  Done  Quickly. 

The  P.  D.  Q.  Camera, 

The  Latest  Improvement  in  Detective  Cameras, 

Takes  Pictures  4x5  inches  in  size,  either 
vertically  or  horizontally. 

CAN  BE  USED  WITH  EITHER  FILMS  OR  PLATES. 


The  Plates  or  Films  used  in  this  Camera  are  regular  articles  same 
as  used  by  Professionals.  They  can  be  purchased  at  any  Photo 
Stock  House  in  this  country,  and  can  be  developed  by  any  photog- 
rapher or  by  the  party  who  uses  them,  the  process  being  so  simple. 
There  is  nothing  of  the  Toy  order  about  it.  It  is  intended  for  and 
capable  of  producing  first-class  work  in  every  particular. 

SEND  POSTAGE  FOR  SAMPLE  4x5  OR  5x8  CLIMAX  FILM  AND  CARRIER. 

Handsomely  covered  with  black  grained  leather,  and  fitted  with  fine  combination  instantaneous  achro- 
matic landscape  lens,  with  pate7it  double  dry  plate  or  film  holder. 

PRICE,  COMPLETE,  ONLY   $20.00. 

E.  &   H.  T.  ANTHONY  &   CO.  Manufacturers, 

59 1    Broadway,  New-York. 

47   TEABS  ESTABLISHED  IN  THIS  LINE  OF  BUSINESS. 


We  manufacture  ROW  AND  SAIL  BOATS  of  every  description.    Price  from  $20.00  upwards. 
Send  for  descriptive  Catalogue.  RACINE    HARDWARE    MFC.   CO.,    Racine,  Wis. 


MADE   IN 

RUBBER  AND 

NICKEL. 


NO    FISHERMAN    SHOULD 
BE   WITHOUT 

THE  MASCOT 

Double  Multiplying  Reel. 

IT    POSSESSES    ADVANTAGES    OVER 
ALL   OTHER    MULTIPLIERS. 

There  are  no  cumbersome  caps,  and  "The  Mascot," 
besides  being  much  neater,  is  also  both  lighter  and 
stronger  than  the  cumbersome  capped  reels. 

Each  reel  has  a  sliding  click  and  a  sliding  drag. 

Every  reel  has  two  oil-ctips  which  the  sportsman  can 
get  at  quickly. 

Sold  by  live  sporting  dealers  everywhere ;  but  if 
j07/rdealerhasn't"The  Mascot  "  write  us,  and  we  will 
tell  you  how  you  can  be  supplied. 

STAR  REEL  WORKS, 

Birmingham,  Conn. 


May,  '90. 


The"BABCOCK"  BUCKBOARD 


The  "Babcock"  Backboard,  susceptible  of  three  different 
changes  in  seating.  Finished  in  Antique  Oak.  The  quickest  sell- 
ing vehicle  we  have  ever  put  before  the  public.  We  manufacture 
all  kinds  of  Carriages  for  City,  Sea-shore  and  Country  use. 

H.  H.  BABCOCK  COMPANY,  Watertown,  I.  Y. 

Salesrooms  in  New- York  City,  406-412  Broome  Street. 

PONY  SHAYi  only  jisl 

Every  Child  can  have 
one.  Send  for  Circular 
to  "THE  ONE  HORSE 
SHAY  CO."  Sterling,  111. 


FULL  LEATHER   TOP.      DIRECT  TO  CONSUMER. 

cy  Saving  25  to  40% 

ROAD  CARTS  A  SPECIALTY. 

For  full  Illustrated  Cata- 
logue and   COMPLETE 
HORSE  BOOK,   send 

six  cts.  in  stamps. 

fPDONEER  BUGGY  GO. 

COLUMBUS, O. 


OAKLAWN   FARM. 


^ 


346  PERGHEROJt 

French  Coach  Horses, 

IMPORTED  and  BRED  in  1889 

Among  Oaklawn's  importations 
this  year  are  the 

WINNERS  OF  88  PRIZES 

at  the  Great  Shows  of  France,  and  of  these  were 
42  FIRST  PRIZES; 

At  the  Universal  Exposition,  Paris,  1889 
13  FIRST  PRIZES. 

STOOK  ON  HAND:  670  HEAD 

Address,  for  300- page  catalogue,  free, 

M.  W.  DUNHAM,  WAYNE,  ILLINOIS. 

Thirty-five  miles  west  of  Chicago,  on  the  C.  &  N.-W. 
B'y.  between  Turner  Junction  and  Elgin. 


ADLEYWAJl 


The  BEST  on  Wheels.  "Handy  "  Wagons, 
Buggies,  Surreys,  Spindles,  Buckboards,  Con- 
cords, Phfetons,  Cabriolets,  Two  Wheelers,  Boad 
Carts, etc.  52-page  catalogue  and  circular," How 
to  purchase  direct  from  the  manufacturers ,"  FREE. 

KnAlElPYXf.il  ««  Murray  SUPJew  York. 

UllftULL.1    WUUl  98  Sudbury  St.,  Boston. 


OUR 

LATEST andBEST 

MOWER 


'j 


For 

Simpli- 
city and 
durability, 
and  quality 
of  work,  it  is 
unequalled.while 
for  Lightness  of 
draft  it  excels  by  a 
large  percentage  any 
other  Lawn  Mower 
made.  Send  for  circu- 
lar and  price-list. 

CHADB0RN& 

COLDWELL 
IMANUF'G  CO. 

Newburgh,  N.  Y. 


We  are  offering  our  fine 
and  elegant 

^Buckboards  and  Surreys 

(hung  on  our  patent  Half- 
Elliptic  Spring), 
PARK  PHAETONS, 
Buggies,  Phaetons,  Road  Wagons,   Pine   Portland 
Cutters,   Two- Seated  Russian  Sleighs, 
At  very  low  prices.     Write  for  catalogue. 

Waterloo  Wagon  Co.  L't'd, 
f^*  Mention  The  Century.  Waterloo,  N.  Y. 


THE  ELKHART  CARRIAGE  &  HARNESS  MFG.  CO. 

Deals  Direct  with  Consumers  at  Wholesale  Prices 


And  Has  Done  this  for  16  YEARS. 

Every  buggy  sold  by  dealers   has  several 
dollars  added  to  the    manufacturers 
price.  We  save  you  this.  We  ship  any- 
where in  the  United  States,  with  priv- 
ilege to  examine  before   buying.    We 
pay  freight  charges  both  ways  If 
not  satisfactory.      We  make  a  full 
line  of  fine  work  in 
BUGGIES,  &  (JURIES,  PHAE- 
TONS,* ARTS  and  HARNESS. 

Our  48-page  Illustrated  Catalogue  Free. 

Address,  G-.  J3.  PRATT,  Secy.,  ElKliort,  Incl. 


HEADQUARTERS  for  CHOICE  PONIES. 


For  SHETLAND  PONIES, 

WELSH    PONIES, 

ICELAND    PONIES. 

BOYS'  and  GIELS'  SADDLES  and  BRIDLES.    PONY 

HARNESS,    SINGLE    and    DOUBLE.      CARTS, 

CUTTERS  and  MINIATURE  VEHICLES 

IN  GREAT   VARIETY. 
Address 

j-  mtt:fl:fl.ay  hoao, 

Maquoketa,  Iowa, 

IMPORTER    AND    BREEDER. 

The   Largest  and  Finest   Herd  of  Registered  Shet- 
lands  in  America. 

Write  for  what  you  want,  inclosing  stamp  for  Price-List. 

PRACTICAL  POULTRY  KEEPING. 


Fifth  Edition. 

A  n  Illustrated  Book  oh  Poultry. 

How  to  Breed  and  Manage  Hens, 
Turkeys,  Ducks  and  Geese,  for  Eggs, 
Market  and  Exhibition. 

Parti.— Poultry  Houses— Ten  Styles 
with  Diagrams — How  to  Build  and 
Manage — Movable  Nests  and  Roosts. 
Part  II. —  General  Care  for  Hens — 
Setting  Hens.  Laying  Hens,  Young 
Chickens,  Turkeys,  Ducks  and  Geese — Mating  Fowls  for  Breed- 
ing—  Mating  Fowls  for  Eggs — Mating  Fowls  for  Flesh. 
Part  III. — Diseases.     This  chapter  is  very  full  on  Gapes,  Roup, 
Cholera  and  all  Fowl  ailments. 
l^p^The  saving  of  one  fowl  will  buy  the  book. 
Part  IV. —  Different  Breeds.     Ten  full-page  illustrations  —  The 

Origin  and  History  of  all  Varieties. 
PartV. —  Poultry  Enemies — How  to  Trap  Them — The  Skunk, 

Rat,  Fox,  Weasel,  Hawk  and  Owl. 
Part  VI. —  Miscellaneous — Receipts  for  Medicines — How  to  fat- 
ten Poultry — How  to  kill,  dress  and  pack  Poultry  for  Market — 
How  to  fit  Fowls  for  Exhibition  —  Capons,  and  how  to  produce 
them  —  Incubators,  how  to  make  and  manage  them — etc.,  etc. 

Almost  every  subject  in  the  line  of  Poultry-keeping  fully  treated. 

The  book  has  many  good  testimonials  of  purchasers.  The  New- 
York  Weekly  Tribune  says  of  it,  "  It  is  just  what  every  one  needs 
who  keeps  a  dozen  fowls."  The  Poultry  Messenger  says:  "It 
contains  all  that  is  valuable  to  the  farmer  or  fancier  for  both  pleasure 
and  profit.  One  of  its  chapters,  'A  Word  to  Beginners,'  is  worth 
to  old  and  new  the  full  price  asked." 

Sent  by  mail,  p^per  cover,  50  cts.  Nicely  bound  in  cloth,  75  cts. 
Postal  note  preferred ;  stamps  taken.     Address 

Lock  Box  91.    G.  M.  T.  JOHNSON,  Binghamton,  N.  Y. 

N.  B. — With  every  copy  I  send  my  Poultry  Annual  for  1890,  and 
prices  of  fowls  and  eggs  of  the  most  popular  varieties.  Also  of 
Bone  Meal,  Crushed  Oyster  Shells,  Caponizing  Instruments  and 
Poultry  supplies. 


Holstein-Friesian  Cattle, 


DO  YOU  WANT  THE  BEST? 

Then  send  for  a  catalogue  of  the  only- 
herd  in  which  100  Cows  have  aver- 
aged 19  lbs.  and  18  have  averaged  24 
lbs.  of  butter  per  week.  In  which  96 
Cows  have  averaged  16,019  lbs.  of 
milk  per  year. 

HORSES. 

Clydesdale,  Percheron,  French  Coach, 
American-bred  Coach,  Standard-bred 
Trotters  of  the  best  and  most  Popular 
Breeding. 

Also  Berkshire  and  Cheshire  Swine. 

Separate  Catalogues  of  Horses  and  Cattle.  Prices 
low  for  high  quality  of  stock.  (In  writing  mention 
The  Century.) 

SMITHS,  POWELL  &  LAMB, 

Syracuse,  N.  Y. 


"SHADELAND 


55  THE  MOST 
EXTENSIVE 

Pure  Bred  Live  Stock 

ESTABLISHMENT 

in    the    WORLD. 

NEW  IMPORTATIONS 

arriving  from  time  to  time.     Rare 

individual  excellence  and 

choicest  breeding. 

CLYDESDALE   HORSES, 
PERCHERON,  NORMAN  OR 

FRENCH  DRAFT-HORSES, 

ENGLISH  DRAFT-HORSES, 
STANDARD-BRED  TROTTERS, 

CLEVELAND    BAYS   AND    FRENCH  COACHERS, 
SADDLERS  AND  CARRIAGE  HORSES, 

ICELAND  AND  SHETLAND  PONIES, 
HOLSTEIN-FRIESIAN  AND  DEVON  CATTLE. 

Our  customers  have  the  advantage  of  our  many  years'  ex- 
perience in  breeding  and  importing;  superior  quality; 
large  variety  and  immense  collections ;  opportunity 
of  comparing-  different  breeds ;  and  low  prices,  because 
of  our  unequaled  facilities,  extent  of  business  and  low 
rates  of  transportation. 

No  other  establishment  in  the  world  offers  such  advantages 
to  the  purchaser. 

PRICES  LOW  !  TERMS  EASY !  Visitors  welcome. 
CoxTCSpondence  solicited.    Circulars  free. 

POWELL   BROS. 
Springboro,  Crawford.  Co.  Pa. 

When  you  write,  mention  The  Centi'ry. 


FOR  ONLY  10  GENTS 


We  will  hend  the  MAYFLOWER,  4  months  on 
TRIAL,  and  a  Packet  of  Mixed  Flower  Seeds  con- 
taining: 50  of  the  newest  and  rarest  kinds.  Sown  this 
■  -  ■  w  Spring  they  willgive  you  all  Summer  a  bed  of  rare  flow- 
ers such  as  you  never  dreamed  of.  THE  MAYFLOWER  is  a  12-page  illustrated  monthly  journal  de- 
?Sed  entirely  to  flowers  and  hardening  in  all  its  branches  I^thefln^tpubhcatioii ^Oindin 
thppnimtrv  "Edited  bv  JOHN  LEWIS  CHILDS  assisted  by  MR.  A.  BLANO  and  O.  L>.  A-L.L-fc.iN,  and  a 
^mSwJ^^^S^mRvS^m.  Regular  Subscription  Price  SO  cents  per  year. 
This  offer  to  send  it  four  months  and  the  packet  of  rare  new  seeds  EQD  Q N I  Y  (0  GENTS 
is  niadp  exDresslv  to  eet  every  lover  of  flowers  in  the  land  to  become  r  VII  WHIM  ■  v  Wkii  I  <*» 
acq^int^with  Lem&ff oFou/paper.   It  isso  good  tnej 'will always  want  it    ^Get  4  of  your 

£enitowEacs  sendTou  the  wondrous  weather  plant  free. 

Get  19  to  send  with  you  and  we  will  send  you  postpaid  5  of  the  most  beautiful  and  rare  plants  you 
ever  saw,  such  as  will  astonish  you  with  their  beauty.    Send  at  once.    This  offer  will  not  appear  again. 

Address  THE   MAYFLOWER,  floral  park,  n.  y. 


**    LAWN  AND  GARDEN   ^* 

DRESSING 


Mr.  WM,  DOOGUE,  Sup't  Boston 
Public  Gardens,  writes  ;• — "  I  find  your 
Dressing  very  beneficial."  It  is  odorless, 
clean,  easily  applied,  and  produces  lux- 
uriant grass,  early  vegetables  and 
healthy  flowering  plants.  Sample  bags 
for  1,'JOO  to  2,500  sq.  ft.  %\  ;  100  lbs.  for 
one-fourth  acre,  $3;  200  lbs.  for  one-half 
acre,  $5.50— DELIVERED  FREE  to 
any  part  of  the  country  on  receipt  of 
price.  Send  for  "How  to  make  a  Good 
Lawn  ok  Gakdkn,"  mailed  free. 

Address : 

,B0WKER  FERTILIZER  C0.J 

\        BOSTON  OR  NEW  YORK 


QUflRTUAMn   *n  10  lessons-     Celebrated  Pernin  Method. 
OnUn  I  MnlMU   No  shading,  no  position.     Trial  lesson  free. 
Write  PERNIN  SHORTHAND  INSTITUTE,  Detroit,  Mich. 


F*  WILD  * 
LOWERS 

Hardy  ORNAMENTALS 

in  PLANTS,  SHRUBS, 
VINES, FERNS, 

ORCHIDS, BULBS. 

Catalogue,  with  beautiful 

colored  plate,  lOc,  which 

\ttw\-  ^niay  be  deducted  from  1st  order. 

jjOILLETT  &  HORSPOBD,  South  wick,  Mass. 

1  rees  &  1  lants 

Fruit  and  Ornamental.     Every  variety 
worthy  of  culture.     Illustrated,  descrip- 
tive, priced  catalogue  free. 
J.T.  LovettCo.  Little  Silver,  N.J. 


PATENTS 


FRANKLIN  H.  HOUGH,  Washington, 
D.  C.  I3§E^  No  attorney's  fee  until  Patent 
obtained.    Write  for  INVENTOR'S  GUIDE. 


The  Dingee  &  Conard  Go's  ROSES,  HARDY  PLANTS, 

BULBS  and  SEEDS. 


Largest  Rose  Growers  in  America. 


OUR  NEW  GUIDE,  116  pp.,  elegantly  illustrated,  is 
sent  FREE  to  ALL  who  write  for  it.  It  describes  and 
tells  HOW  TO  GROW  over  TWO  THOUSAND 
FINEST  varieties  of  ROSES,  HARDY  PLANTS, 
BULBS  and  SEEDS.  4®»  NEW  ROSES,  NEW 
SHRUBBERY,  NEW  CLEMATIS  and  Climbing 
Vines,  NEW  SUMMER  FLOWERING  BULBS, 
JAPAN  LILIES,  GLADIOLUS,  TUBEROSES, 
CARNATIONS,  New  JAPAN  CHRYSANTHE- 
MUMS, New  MOON  FLOWERS,  and  the  choicest 


65 

Large  *%$&  IP      ^ 
Rose  Houses. 

THE  DINGEE 


New  and 
RARE 


FLOWER  AND  VEGETABLE  SEEDS 

Goods  sent  everywhere  by  mail  or  express.     Safe  arrival  guar- 
anteed.    If  you  wish  Roses,  Plants,  or  Seeds  of  any  kind,  it  will 
<ay  you  to  see  our  New  Guide  before  buying.  Send  for  it — free.  Address 

ONARD  CO.,  MBM£23EM,d  West  Grove,  Pa 


Why  pay  $100  Per  Year  for  your 
Life  Insurance, 

WHEN  THE  SAME  AMOUNT  OK  INSURANCE  CAN  BE 
HAD  IN  ONE  OF  THE  STRONGEST  LIFE  INSUR- 
ANCE   COMPANIES   IN   THE  WORLD    FOR 


$50 


Why  leave  your  family  — your  Wife  and  Children — a  8810,000 
Estate,  in  the  shape  of  Life  Insurance,  when  the  same  yearly 
payment  you  are  now  paying  for  the  $>10,000  Insurance  to  the 
Old-System  Companies  will  secure  for  your  Estate  to  your  Wife 
and  Children  double  the  amount,  or  $20,000,  in  the  Strongest 
and  Most  Successful  Life  Association  in  the  World.  Therefore 
secure  your  Life  Insurance  in 

The  Mutual  Reserve  Fund 
Life  Association, 

Home  Office,  Potter  Building,  38  Park  Row, 

NEW -YORK. 

It  has  already  paid  to  the  "Widows  and  Orphans  of  its 
Deceased  Members  Death  Claims  to  the  amount  of  more  than 
$7,500,000.00. 

It  has  more  than  $2,400,000.00  Cash  Surplus. 

It  has  saved  its  Members  by  reduction  of  Premiums  more  than 
$25,000,000.00. 

E.  B.  HARPER,  President. 

LIBERTY  AND  A  LIVING. 

The  record  of  an  attempt  to  secure  Bread  and  Butter, 
Sunshine  and  Content,  by  Gardening,  Fishing  and 
Hunting. 

By  a  city  man  who  escaped  from  the  Bondage  of  the 
Landlord,  of  the  Desk  and  of  the  Daily  Grind. 

"  Full  of  interest  and  suggestion."     Price  $i.ooby  mail. 

G.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS,  Publishers,  New-York. 

RELIGIOUS  FRUITS" 

U    For  ORCHARD  and  GARDEN. 

Beautiful  Ornamental  Trees,  Evergreens, 
Shrubs,  Roses,  Hardy  Plants,  etc. ,  for  parks, 
public  grounds  and  gardens.  The  largest  and  most 
complete  stock  in  the  U.  S.  New  illus.  f"  M  ■■■■ 
and  descriptive  priced  Catalogue,  con-  iiKl>l- 
taining  important  information  for  planters,  |    I  I  k»  mm 

ELLWANGER  &  BARRY,  ^j^ggf: 

8  per  cent.  Guaranteed 
on  investments  in 
DULUTH    REAL.    ESTATE 

in  consideration  of  equal  division  of  Additional  Prof- 
its.    References  and  particulars  on  application. 

RICHARDSON,   DAY  &    CO. 

Palladio  Building,  Duluth,  Minn. 

OFFICE  DESKS. 

Uncqualed   for   design,  material,  con- 
struction, finish. 

CATALOGUE   FREE. 

Union  School  Furniture  Co. 

BATTLE   CREEK,   MICH. 
Mention  The  Century. 


A  SUPERB  ROSE 


"THE  DINSMORE" 

Should  be  in  every  garden  that  it  is  not 
already  adorning.  It  is  entirely  hardy, 
enduring  our  severest  winters,  of  large 
size,  perfect  form,  deep  crimson 
in  color,  deliciously  fragrant,  and 
blooms  continuously  during  the 
whole  season,  so  that  roses  can  be  gath- 
ered from  it  almost  every  day  from  June 
to  October.  Remember,  it  is  ever- 
blooming,  hardy  as  an  oak,  with 
the  rich  crimson  color  and  deli- 
cious fragrance  of  Gen.  Jacqueminot. 
Price,  25  cts.  each;  five  for  $1.00;  twelve 
for  $2.00;  free  by  mail. 

With  every  order  for  a  single  plant 
or  more  will  be  sent,  gratis,  our 
superb  catalogue  of  "EVERYTHING 
FOR  THE  GARDEN"  (the  price  of 
which  is  25  cents),  together  with  our 
new  "ESSAY  ON  GARDEN  CULTURE 
OF  THE  ROSE,"  on  condition  that  you 
will  say  in  what  paper  you  saw  this  adver- 
tisement. Club  orders  for  Five  or 
Twelve  plants  can  have  the  catalogue 
sent,  when  desired,  to  the  separate  ad- 
dress of  each  member  comprising 
the  Club,  provided  always  that  &gl 
The   Century  is    named.  £/©/©/©,  ^S^J 

Peter  Henderson  &  Co. 

35  &  37  Cortlandt  St.  New- York. 


THE  EMPIRE  WRINGER 

Is  absolutely  free  from  the  faults  of  all  other  wring-  ^ 
ere.  The  coga  shown  in  the  cut  apply  the  power, 
l  hence  any  garment  wrung  through  this  wringer  comes 
loot  perfectly  on  the  o'her  side.  Buttons  hanging  by 
|  a  thread  run  through  this  wringer  without  beiug  torn 
from  the  garment  j  and  the  cost  in  labor,  time, 
trouble  and  making  repairs  to  garments  wrench- 
fed  by  other  wi'hi<rcr«  H  absolutely  avoided  in  the 
I  use  of  the  EMPIRE  WRINGER. 


WIRE 
r&UBt,RNJgj 


T!E  EMPIRE 

never  gets  out  of  order.    It  is  made  of' 

/wood,  rubber   and  iron,  and  will  last  for 

years.     Saves  labor,    does   rot  grease  \he, 

clothes,  never  rusts,  and  wrings  drier  than 

any  wringer  manufactured.    Je^-Asreius 

wanted   everywhere.    Sold  by  Dealers 

Address,  EMPIRE  WRINGER  CO., 

Auburn,  N.  Y.     I 


m BROWNS  GINGER 

GET   THE  GENUINE.     IMITATIONS  ARE  OFFERED-THEY  ARE  WORTHLESS 


F  CRAM  PS 

O  AND 

R    COLIC. 


B 


ryant  &  Stratton  Chicago  Business  College ! 

THE    GREAT    BUSINESS    UNIVERSITY    OF   AMERICA.     Magnificent 

Hundred  Page  Catalogue.  Largest  and  finest  ever  published.  SO  Elegant  Full  Page  ENGRAVINGS. 
Sent  FREE  UDon  receipt  of  10  cents  to  pay  postage.   Address  H.B.  BR YAJNT  <fe  SON,  Chicago,  111. 


ESTERBROOK'S    PENS 

Standard  and  superior  quality.    Leading1  Nos.  048, 14, 130, 135,  239,  313, 333.    All  Stationers  have  them. 
THE  ESTERBROOK  STEEL  PEN  CO.,  26  John  Street,  New  York. 


SELECT 
FLAVORS 


7\  "  "J  * 


DCDCCPTI  V  DUDE       Extract*  of      TUC  DCOT    TTneqnaled  Strength 
rtltrEU  I  LI  rUnC  Choicest  Fruits.    I  nC  DUO  I  •  for  All.     Thousands 


of  Gross   Sold.    Winning  "Friends   Every- 
where.   Dealers  Treble  Sales  with  Them. 


EVERY  FAMILY 


Should  Enow  Their 
l>elicious  JPInvors. 


O  5 


Hill    I       nit  nrn  Makes  Attractive  Homes. 

mflul  f*  1  w  lUl^i"  K  Our  low  prices,  enormous  assort- 

Ml  juR  H  I    Hi    Lll  ment  of  styles,  and   honorable 

«f  G  ■  »  ■»  ■■    treatment  inauce  customers  in  all  parts  U.  S. 

■  ■  to  recommend  us.     JLustivs  6c.  a  roll.     Handsome 

Golds  12c.  Feits£Oi>.  Iridescent  Embossed  Golds  tfdc. 

For  8c.  postage  will  send  to  any  address  samples  with  borders  to 

match.    A.  L.  DIAMENT&  CO.,  1206  Market  St.,  PHILADELPHIA,  PA. 


XHE  KRIEBEL      - 

BOAT  ENGINES. 

With  upright7  or  horizontal 
MP**     "  BOILERS. 


■■-.2  to  20 
> HORSE  POWER 

P\IQEAVHIJACRE 

Wk*go; -■■.>-  ILL 


Wl  1         Xf£%l  1  Learn  Shorthand? 
WWltLi  T  \J  Wand  act  as  AGENT 

for  Text-books,  by  Benn  Pitman  and  Jebome 
B.  Howard.    Readily  self-taught.    Address 
The  Phonographic  Institute,  Cincinnati,  O. 


THE 

OLDEST 

THE 


Mmm 


INDELIBLE  INK. 


_rc,_      rior  and  popular  for  decorative  work  on  linen 
uLbi.    Centennial  Medal  &  Diploma.    " 


No  preparation  and  only  a 
common  pen  needed.  Estab- 
lished SO  Years.  Supe- 
Rec'd 

Sold  everywhere. 


TRUNKSIBAGS, 

FRaW  THE  MANUFACTURER, 
LFlNE,G00DS,  tOW  PRICES, 

I   wV6u  CAN  SAVE   M  ONEY 
f    BY   DEALING    WITH  US, 

rSEND  FOR    ILLUSTRATED     fJVfALOGUE 

HENRY  LIKLY  &  C0.ROCHESTER  nx 


CftllTU  flAI/flTA  Free  Homes, Government  Land. 
OUU  I  II  UHI\U  I  Mb  anil  Cheap  Deeded  Lands  in  this 
Stale,  with  HI  gieat  natural  resources,  agricultural  and  mineral. 

^oSaSS*^S^S?,£t,ffi  GREAT  SIOUX  RESERVATION, 

subject  to  Homestead  entry.  Information  about  the  resources, 
development,   industries,    etc.,    furnished    free    by 

F.  H.  EAGERTY,  Commissioner  of  Immigration,  Aberdeen,  S.  D. 


6  for  $1.00 


25 


PRINTING  OUTFIT 

and   MACBC    HAT   RACK. 

To  pet  Agents  and  buyers  we  will,  for  60  days  only, 
send  these  two  valuable  articles  post-paid  on  receipt 
of  25c,  silver  or  stamps.  3  sets  60c,  6  sets  $3.00.  THIS 
IS  A  WONDERFUL  OFFEK.  Outfit  used  for  setting 
up  names,  printing  cards,  marking  linen,  books,  en- 
velopes, papers,  etc. ;  contains  3  alphabets  rear  type, 
-«•  ~""**"  type  holder,  indelible  ink,  pad,tweezers,  all 
.  in  neat  case  with  Directions,  full  Catalogue  and  terms.  YOU  can  make  MONEY  at  printing  or  selling  outfits 
Agents  wanted.  Catalogue  Free.  This  PKINTINU  OUTFIT  is  practically  the  SATHE  and  as  valuable  for  most 
purposes  as  the  more  expensive  outfits,costing  from  60c,  to  $2.00.  We  have  gotten  it  up  as  an  attractive  leader. 
wishing  to  Place  a  sample  of  our  goods  and  our  catalogue  in  the  hands  of  100,000  new  buyers  this  season  The 
HAT  HACK  is  a  STARTLING  new  invention.  THIS  OFFER  is  worth  at  least  60,,.  68  page  cat.5c  C irculara  PRKE 
llNGERSOI,!,  STAMP  &  NOVELTY  CO..   65  CORTLAN11T  ST.,  S.  Y. CIT Y, 


FINANCIAL.  I 


HE  Boston  Herald  has  the  reputation  of  having 
the  best  financial  columns  of  any  New  England 
paper,  consequently  carries  more  financial  adver- 
tising than  any  other  large  daily  in  that  section. 


A  MAHOGANY  FINISH. 

Can  be  applied  by  any  one. 
Two  coats  on  common  wood  produce  a  beautiful 
finish;  more  attractive  than  natural  wood.  Dur- 
able, economical.  Send  for  circular  and  sample 
of  wood  finished  with  .Ferinite. 

The  only  durable  coating 
for  Hard-wood  Finish, 
Floors,  Grained  Work,  etc.,  or  for  any  work  where 
varnish  is  used.  Superior  to  varnish.  Has 
a  beautiful  luster,  and  is  guaranteed.  Send  for 
circular  and  sample  board. 

SEELEY  BEOS.  32  Burling  Slip,  N.  Y. 


FERINITE 


PELLUCIDITE 


SDAIf  AIIC  CJtl  I  O  Is  the  most  rapidly  growing  young 
rUlvHIlC  InLLv  city  in  America,  railway  center  and 
metropolis  of  a  territory  containing  200,000  square  miles  lin 
paralleled  mineral,  agricultural  and  timber  resources.  Finest 
water  power  in  the  world.  Send  for  full  particulars  including 
nandsome  book  "Spokane  Falls  Illustrated,"  to  CLOUGH  &  GRAVE.*, 
Financial  Agents,  Spokane  Falls,  Washington.     Bank  references  given. 

Ask  Him !  Who  P 

JONES  OF  BINGHAMTOH, 

BINGHAMTON,   N.  Y. 

What?    Why  on  Scales 

"  He  Pays  the  Freight." 

1   WHITE  -IS3.00 1  MOUNTAIN 


AMMOCK  CHAI 


Defective     VISION    BY    CORRESPONDENCE. 

El/ [  ft  A.  Jay  Cross  &  Co. 

W*  3k      Opticians    and.    Specialists, 
I   LU  18  West  23d  St.  New -York. 

System  Copyrighted.  Send  for  Circular. 

ftr.     Everybody's  Handbook  of  Electricity. 

m  50  illustrations.      120    pages.      Valuable   Book  for 

Jb  w  \J  1  amateurs  All  about  Electric  Batteries,  Bells,  Lamps, 
Dynamos,  Motors,  Railways,  Welding,  etc     Sent  post-paid. 

BUBIER  PUB.  CO.  Lynn,  Mass. 

The  Berkshire  Hills 
Sanatorium 

For  the  cure  of  Cancer  in  all  its  forms,  without  the  use  of  the 
knife.     Book  with  complete  information  mailed  free.     Address 
Dr.  W.  E.  BROWN  &  SON,  North  Adams,  Mass. 

ASITUHDQ  who  desire  unbiased  criticism,  thorough  revision 
MU  I  nUriO  and  correction  of  MSS..  address  Dr.  T.  M.  Coan, 
N.  Y.  Bureau  of  Literary  Revision,  20  West  14th  Street. 


"HEALTH  JOLTING  andimpamheakh 
E  *-M.MmmmMm  ■  M.  M.  and  vigor;  the  best  means  known  for 
the  relief  of  dyspepsia,  constipation,  sluggish  liver,  etc.;  convenient; 
safe;  scientific;   unique.     Sales  world-wide.     Circulars  explain. 

OTIS  CORP.ETT,  150  W.  33d  St.  New- York. 


What  is  more  aggravating  than  leaky 
valves,  whether  in  House,  Office  or  Fac- 
tory? If  you  wish  to  avoid  annoyance, 
INSIST  on  having 

.IENMINS  UROS.'  VALVES 
Accept  no  valves  as  JENKINS  BROS, 
unless  stamped  with  our  "Trade-Mark," 
like  cut. 
71  John  St.  New-York.       54  Dearborn  St.  Chicago. 

21  North  Fifth  St.  Phila.         105  Milk  St.  Boston. 


SEASIDE  COTTAGES,  FURNISHED,  SIASCONSET,  Nantucket 
Island,  Mass.  $120  to  $275,  the  season.     No  hotdays,  malaria 
or  mosquitoes.  UNDERH1LL,  39  Ann  St.,  N.  Y. 


BOOK   HOLDERS 
OO K  RESTS.  SEND  FOR 

DICTIONARY  HOLDERS.     CATALOGUE. 

ADJUSTABLE  TABLES.     R .  M .  L A  M  B I  E , 
TLAS  STANDS.  39  E.  19th  St.,  N.  Y. 


'LETE  COMPENDIUM  FOHM5*  5 


fMMM^MMMmWA 


JCARGILL,  S  ELCrr..  NEW  HAVEN, 


BEFORE  BUYING  GRATES 

get  Circular  and  Testimonials.     Seut  Free. 

Economical,  Sanitary,  Cleanly  and  Artistic. 
ALPINE  FIRE  PLACE,  GRAND  RAPIDS,  MICH. 


'S  Bureau  ^Advertising 

Lists  of  first-class  Daily  amlu 
Weekly  Papers  sent  to  any  part 
of  the  world.  Estimates  free. 
150   Nassau  St.,  New    York. 


"FLORIDA  HOME  SEEKER." 

Monthly  ;  50  cents  a  year.  Invaluable  guide  to  settlers.  Tells 
of  homes  on  installments.  Best  locations.  Full  information.  Send 
stamp  for  sample.     O.  M.  Crosby,  99  Franklin  Street,  New- York. 


First  Mortgages  carefully  placed  on  improved  Real 
Estate  -worth  twice  to  three  times  the  amount  of 
the  loan.    Correspondence  solicited. 

NETTLETON   &  PAINE, 

Rooms  17  and  18,  Eagle  Block.         Spokane  Falls,  Washington. 


THE  LARGEST  FACTORY 


IN  TH£  WORLD. 


THE 
SALE  OF 
CHOCOLATE 
MENIER 
EXCEEDS  100.000 
POUNDS  PER  PAY 

SOLD  EVERYWHERE 
AVOID  IMITATIONS 


Sole  Depot  for  the  United  States,  36  East  14th  St.  New- York. 


D 
CO 

z 
■n 
m 
O 

H 
> 


TRADE 

Perfectly  Non-Poisonous,  Odorless,  Sanitary. 

It  slowly  dissolves  in  water,  making  a  constant  Disinfectant  for 
water-closets,  urinals,  sinks,  drains,  sewers,  cesspools,  privies, 
vaults,  stables,  kennels,  bilge-water,  spittoons  and  every  place 
that  needs  Disinfecting.  The  readiness  with  which  Bailey's  Anti- 
septic Disinfectant  yields  its  oxygen  to  bodies  having  a  strong 
affinity  to  that  element,  accounts  for  its  wonderful  power  in  stopping 
putrefaction  and  correcting  putrid  odors. 

Bryant  and  Stratton  School, 

608  Washington  St.  Boston,  Jan.  9,  1890. 
GENTLEMEN,  — I  am  both  surprised  and  pleased  with  the  manner  in 
which  your  Disinfectant  has  purified  the  closets  in  my  school  premises.  I 
experienced  no  trouble  with  foul  or  disagreeable  odors,  and  the  closets 
which  are  used  daily  by  600  persons  seem  as  fresh  and  clean  at  night  as  in 
the  morning.    Please  refer  any  person  at  all  sceptical  to  me. 

Yours  respectfully, 
H.  E.  HIBBARD,  Principal,  B.  &-  S.  School. 

Sample  Tablet,  10c.  each. 

4  ounce       "  25  c.      '* 

Box  of  50  Small  Tablets,  25  c.      " 

1-2  pound  Can,  50c.      " 

Powder,  per  Can,  50c.      " 

Sent  prepaid  on  receipt  01  price. 

Descriptive  Circular  and  Sample  Piece  to  try  mailed 

free.    Agents  wanted. 

THE    BAILEY   DISINFECTANT   CO. 

Sole  Manufacturers  and  Patentees. 
Boylston  Building,  Boylston  St.  Boston,  Mass. 


BUY  THE 

"RELIABLE" 

Trade- Mark 


Flannel  Shirts 


PAJAMAS,  HOUSE  ROBES 
AND 

LOUNGING  COATS. 


THE  "RELIABLE" 

FLANNEL  tf^fr  SHIRT. 
OTHER  STYLES  LACED. 


BROKAW    MFG.   CO. 

NEWBTJRGH,  N.  Y. 
Ask  Retailers  for  them. 


ULUII I  I  lUI\  PRICES  REDUCED 


Best  Fences  and  Gates  for  all 
purposes.  Free  Catalogue  giving 
full  particulars  and  net  prices. 
Ask  Hardware  Dealers,  or  write 
SEDGWICK  BROS.,  RICHMOND,  IND. 

™«^PW.A?£.SlJTTON'  Eastern  Agent, 
300  Market  Street.  PHIL,  All  KLPMIA.  PA. 


Star  Hack  Saws, 
Star  Butcher  Saws, 
Star  Bracket  Saws. 

The  Star  Hack  Saw  has  a  file  temper,  and  one 
5-cent  blade  will  do  more  work  than  $1.00  worth  of  files. 
It  will  cut  off  an  inch  square  bar  of  steel  30  times. 

The  Star  Butcher  Saw  will  cut  four  times  as 
long  without  filing  as  any  other  kind  in  use.  It  will 
cut  off  a  half-inch  rod  of  iron  30  times. 

The  Star  Bracket  Saw  is  taking  the  place  of 
all  other  kinds. 

None  of  these  Star  Saws  are  to  be  filed,  as  the  price 
is  less  than  the  cost  of  filing.  They  are  taking  the  place 
of  all  other  saws  as  fast  as  they  become  known. 

PRICES : 

Hack  Saw  Blades. 

Length 6  in.      7  in.      8  in.      9  in.       10  in. 

Perdoz $0.55    $0.60    $0.65    $0.70      $0.85 

Butcher  Saw  Blades. 

Length 14  in.     16  in.     18  in.     20  in.     22  in 

Perdoz $1.08    $1.08     $1.20    $1.20     $1.32 

Bracket  Saw  Blades. 

No 000  to  6  7  8  9  10  11 

Per  gross .$1.00        $1.10    $1.20    $1.30    $1.40     $1.50    $1.60 

For  sale  by  most  hardware  dealers,  or  sent  by  mail 
on  receipt  of  the  price. 

MILLERS  FALLS  CO. 

93  Beade  Street,  New- York. 

DEATH  FROM  GAS  PREVENTED. 

SEUF-CLOSING  GAS-BURNER 

FOR 

NURSERIES,  BEDROOMS,  BATH- 
ROOMS, HAIXS. 

Gas  blown  out  does  not  escape.  Fits  any  fixture. 
Indorsed  by  all  Gas  Engineers.  Sent  by  mail.  Price 
50  and  75  cents. 

AUTOMATIC  SAFETY  BURNER  CO. 
Agents  wanted.  10  E.  14th  St.  N.  Y. 


11  in. 

$0.95 


24  in. 

$1.32 


12  in. 

$1.05 

26  in. 
$1.44 


BRIGGS  &  GO'S  PATENT  TRANSFER  PAPERS. 

We  will  send,  you  our  Catalogue,  show- 
ing hundreds  of  designs,  on  receipt  of  IS  c, 
and  one   dollar's  worth   of  good   designs  for 

30  c .;  aii  for  45  c.  87  Leonard  Street,  N.  Y. 
DO  YOU  'NTENP  TO  BUILD? 

The  $1100  house,  which   we  have 

shown  in  several  issues  of  Century, 

has  been  built  a  number  of  times. 

We  now  present  another  beautiful 

ad  popular  design,   which 

costs,  complete,  $8S00.     Our 

Atlas  of  SENSIBLE  LOW- 

COST  HOUSES  with 

NEW  DESIGNS  for 

1890  contains  a  large 

perspective  view  of  this 

house  and  80  others.    It 

shows   details    and 

floor    plans,  and 

gives  our  prices  for 

complete  working 


plans,  detail  drawings  and  specifications.  Price  of  Atlas  by  mail  $2.00.  Included 
among  the  illustrations  are  COLONIAL  DESIGNS,  Double  Houses, 
^ity  *  route,  One-Story  Houses,  Seashore  and  Southern  Styles, 

ranging  in  cost  from  $600  to  $7000.  We  do  a  large  amount  of  new  designing. 
Our  system  in  regardto  this  worn  is  simple  and  satisfactory,  and  we  give  free 
estimates  as  to  cost  of  building,  and  information  as  *a  our  prices  for  special 
new  plans.  We  furnish  those  who  order  our  plans  everything  which  is  neces- 
sary to  enable  them  to  make  intelligent  and  satisfactory  contracts. 
National  Architects'  Union,  ISO  N.  Seventh  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


ONLY  WHEN  THE  LIPS  DISPLAY  PRETTY  TEETH. 

The  shells  of  the  ocean  yield  no  pearl  that  can  exceed 
in  beauty  teeth  whitened  and  cleansed  with  that  incom- 
parable Dentifrice,  Fragrant 

SOZODONT 

which  hardens  and  invigorates  the  gums,  purifies  and 
perfumes  the  breath,  beautifies  and  preserves  the  teeth 
from  youth  to  old  age. 

One  bottle  of  Sozodont  will  last  six  months. 

"lUNIOR  PRINTING  OUTFIT,  50c. 

There  being  a  demand  for  a  low-priced  outfit  with  movable 
types  by  which  any  name  may  be  printed  has  compelled  us  to 
introduce  the  "Junior."  Contains  a  4A  font  of  metal-bodied 
rubber-faced  type,  nickeled  type  holder,  bottle  indelible  ink 
(warranted  not  to  wash  out) ,  ink  pads  and  tweezers.  Nothing 
cheap  about  this  except  the  price.    U.  S.  postage  stamps  taken. 

W  JE»ejI  e  Stitmp\Vorks,NewIIaven,Ct. 


Send  this  (The  Century;  advertisement  and  $2.00  direct  to  the 
publisher    (this   is   essential)    by   June   1,    and  you    will    receive 

THE  ART 
AMATEUR. 

FOR  7  MONTHS  (DEC,  '89, TO  JUNE,  '90  ). 
W I  ft  BEAUTIFUL  COLOR  STUDIES  for  Oil, 
~  I X  Water-Color  and  China  Painting  (also 
^IU  Yerv  Suitable  for  Framing). 

These  consist  of  14  color  studies  published  or  to  be  published 
with  the  numbers,  including  the  splendid  study  of  Pears,  by 
Mathilda  Brown  (15x31) — the  largest  and  finest  oil  study  ever 
given  with  a  magazine,  and  in  itself  well  worth  $2;  Azaleas 
(14x12);  2  bird  and  flower  panels  (each  21x8);  Notre  Dame 
Cathedral  by  Moonlight  (11x16);  Cat  (nxi6);  Spring  Land- 
scape; Cottage  Garden;  "Little  Mischief"  (baby  girl);  Easter 
Lilies;  Daffodils  in  Basket,  etc.,  etc.,  and  extra:  Bertha  Maguire's 
exquisite  study  of  Orchids,  which  won  the  gold  medal  of  the  Royal 
Botanical  Society.  To  the  15  superb  plates  we  add  3 
of  our  selection  —  Landscape,  Flower  or  Flgxire. 
You  also  get  for  your  $2 

60  PAGES  OF  PRACTICAL,  DESIGNS  in  Black  and 
White  for  China  Painting,  Oil,  Water-Color  and  Tapestry  Painting, 
Wood-Carving,  Brass-Hammering  and  Needlework,  and  over 

150  PAGES  (16x11)  OF  TEXT  full  of  direction,  sug- 
gestion and  description,  relating  to  Flower  Painting,  Marine  Paint- 
ing, Portrait  Painting,  Still- Life  Painting,  Sketching  from  Nature, 
Pen  Drawing  for  Book  and  Magazine  Illustrating,  Etching, 

HOME  ADORNMENT 

AND  ART  WORK. 

For  $»4  you  get  12  months'  subscription  ;  with  27  color  studies; 
and  the  sumptuous  Orchid  study  free. 

For  J8>3  you  get  all  named  in  above  "  special  offer";  or,  if  you 
prefer,  6  months'  continued  subscription,  beginning  any  month. 

For  25c.  you  get  a  specimen  copy  of  The  Art  Amateur, 
with  2  color  studies,  and  8  pages  supplementary  working  designs, 
for  China  Painting,  Carving,  Needlework,  etc.,  etc.  ;  zxi&,free,  a 
beautifully  illustrated  Catalogue  of  70  Color  Studies. 

MONTAGUE  MARKS,  Publisher, 

23  UNION  SQUARE,  NEW-YORK. 


Do  it  yourself.    Uara  pr 
$3.  Circular  press  $8.News- 
_^  paper  size  $44.  Everything 

M^^tl  TTtt  T  *  \\  QPeasy,  printed  rules.  Send  2 
Ji«  JL  111  GjJLJL M.G*  stamps  for  List  of  presses, 
type,  <fec,  to  factory.    KELSEY  &  CO..  Meriden,  Conn. 


Cheap 


EXPANDED    METAL 

Is  the  "Trade"  name  for  Plates  of  Soft  Steel  cut  and  opened  out  into  webs  of  diamond  or  other  shaped  mesh. 


FENCING. 


LATHING. 


For  fencing  it  is  unsurpassed,  being  strong  and  durable,  giving 
great  protection  with  least  obstruction  to  view  of  inclosure. 

It  is  not  of  the  "  stretched"  order  of  fence,  but  a  solid  and  sub- 
stantial structure,  which,  when  mounted  in  various  ways,  makes  a 
neat  and  attractive  guard  for  Lawn,  Park,  Church,  Cemetery  or  Farm 
that  will  prove  a  good  investment. 

For  Summer  Doors,  Window  Guards,  Poultry  Yards  and  Ornamental 
Garden  Work,  more  durable  than  wire. 

Our  Steel  Lath  commends  itself  to  Architects  and  Builders  as  the 
best  metallic  lath  in  use. 

It  requires  no  stretching  or  furring ;  its  form  makes  it  rigid,  and 
yet  it  can  be  readily  molded  to  any  required  curve  or  angle.  Gives 
a  perfect  "key"  throughout. 

Specify  our  Lath  to  reduce  the  fire  risk  on  your  buildings. 

Write  for  catalogue  and  name  The  Century. 

67"&VaLcft.%FwlCY™i.  I  CENTRAL  EXPANDED  METAL  CO. 

1026  Ridge  Ave.  Phila.   )  110  Water  St.  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 


FL.OWEKS.— George    R.  Knapp 

and  "  Answers  to  Correspondents." 


The  May  Housewife  is  a  beautifully  illustrated  number,  containing  : 
FICTION.— Harriet  Prescott  Spofford  relates  in  her  charming  manner 
"  Hester's  Love  Story  "  ;  Zenas  Dane  contributes  a  capital  humorous  story,  "Sis- 
ter Dilly's  Bonnet " ;  Mary  Kyle  Dallas  furnishes  two  more  entertaining  chapters 
of  "The  Begum's  Heiress." 

FASHION.— Jenny  June  considers  "  Reformed  Dress,"  "  Features  of  the 
Spring,"  "  Bonnets,"  "Hosiery  and  Gloves"  and  "  New  Materials." 
discusses    "Balsams,   Large  and  Small,"    "Culture  of  Ferns,"   "Timely  Pointers" 


HOME  DECORATION.— Emma  Moffett  Tyng  describes  "  Some  Pretty  Table  Mats,"  and  contributes  an  interesting  article 
on  the  selection,  care  and  arrangement  of"  Glassware."  I.E.  Chittenden  suggests  in  a  very  happy  manner  some  "Spring  Changes." 

THE  NEEDLE  WORKER.—  Emma  Chalmers  Monroe  furnishes  the  customary  supply  of  novel  designs. 

THE  CHAT-BOX,  MOTHERS'  and  CHILDREN'S  DEPARTMENTS  are  replete  with  information  and  suggestions 
of  practical  value  to  many  a  reader  of  The  Housewife. 

THE  KITCHEN. — Juliet  Corson  discusses  "Soups  "  ;  Eliza  R.  Parker,  "  Picnics  ";  and  Maria  Parloa,  a  subject 
of  great  interest  to  housekeepers. 

POEMS  by  Kate  Putnam  Osgood,  Katherine  H.  Terry,  Emma  C.  Dowd,  and  Eben  E.  Rexford  complete 
the  May  number. 

J5P3  Every  article  contributed  expressly  for  The  Housewife  by  the  best  talent  obtainable. 

50  CENTS  A  YEAR;  5  CENTS  A  COPY. 

Special  Offer:  To  introduce  it  into  thousands  of  new  homes  we  offer  it  4  months  for  only  10  cents,  if  you  mention 
The  Century. 

The  Housewife  on  all  news-stands,  5  cents  a  copy. 

THE    HOUSEWIFE    PUBLISHING    CO.    NEW-YORK. 

J  Eti7t3  Lr]  pJ  Lq  pj  LrTp3  GTr^  GT  ?lHji  pJtn  pJ  GTp3  Lri  p-i  >ji  ru  CT  rJ  Ln  r»J  Iji  pJ  Ln  p^  CTrJ  iji  pJ  GTr^  LnrULnpJiJiriJLrnxi  CTrJ  CT  r 

IF  YOU  RIDE  HORSEBACK,  Rtf^SS  READY  RIDING  STRAP 

to  hold  your  trousers  down.     Worn  inside  the  foot,  cannot  be  seen  and  the 
trousers  appear  to  han°-  naturally.     Will  fit  any  shoe.    50  cents  per  pair. 

THE   CARTER-SMITH   CO.  91  5th  A^e.  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
THE  "ALPINE"  COSTUME  FOR  LADY  TOURISTS. 

Mme.  Mevey  &  Co.,  Costume  Artists,  69  West  36th  Street, 
Patentees  and  Sole  Manufacturers.  New-York. 


PANSY  PLANTS 

packed,  post-paid,  Catl — 


12  very  choice  Pansy  Plants,  all  col- 
ors, 20  cts. ,  or  24  for  30  cts.,  nicely 
:.  free.    F.  B.  MILLS,  Tliorn  Hill,  H.  Y. 


A  PERSONAL  EXPLANATION. 


Many  readers  of  our  advertisements  do  not  understand  that  we  desire 
to  deal  direct  with  them,  not  through  a  middle-man.  They  go  into 
a  local  store  and  ask  for  our  goods.  The  dealer  has  none,  but,  of 
course,  has  something  "  as  good,"  and  the  customer  is  persuaded  to  again  try  the  poor  stuff  that  has  so  often  disgusted  him.  The  MA- 
HEK  &  GKOSH  goods  are  hand-forged  from  razor  steel,  tested  and  warranted.  They  are  made  on  honor,  and  sold  on  their 
For  13  years  they  have  been  before  the  public,  and  the  verdict  is  shown  by  constantly  increasing  sales.     We  want  your  trade;  you 

want  value  for  your  money.     Send  for 


our  free8o-page  illustrated  list ;  it  is  full 
of  points  about  the  use  of  Knives, 
Razors,  Shears,  etc.,  that  we  have 
been  a  lifetime  learning.  But,  as 
sample,  look  at  this  cut,  exact  size  of 
our  great  leader,  price,  65c,  but  for  a 
while  samples  sent,  post-paid,  for  48c; 
5  for  S3.  Our  7-inch  best  Steel 
Shears,  60c,  post-paid.  f'J^  This 
knife  and  shears,  by  mail,  $1.  Prun- 
ing knife,  75c;  grafting,  25c;  budding, 
55c;  pruning  shears,  90c;  3-blade 
stock-knife,  $r;  fine  penknife,  $1;  boy's  strong  2-blade, 
35c;  ladies,  2-blade  pearl,  50c. 

No.  477.  Elegant  pearl  handle,  nickel  ends,  two  blades  and 
nail  file  ;  highest  quality  blades.  Price,  $1.00.  The  blades  are 
severely  tested,  and  will  carry  a  razor  edge.  Price  of  the  two 
knives  shown  here  is  $1.65.  We  will  mail  you  the  two  for  $1.40 
for  a  while.  MAHEB  &  GBOSH, 

74   Summit  Street,  Toledo,  Ohio. 


Advertising 
Sketches. 

I   wish    I   had   time  and 
space —  particularly    space 
—  to   tell    you    how    much 
benefit    a    man's    business 
can    derive    from    a    good 
Advertising    Sketch.       I    could 
cite   numerous  instances.     The 
cheapness  of  Photo-Engraving 
has  largely  increased  the   field 
of  advertising  sketches,  and  I   now  find 
myself  busy  in  many  directions  that  be- 
fore I  never  dreamed  of.      Some  of  the 
queer  things  I  have  been  asked  to  de- 
sign lately  have  been  : 

A  seaside  cottage  with  all  the  windows  facing  the  ocean. 

Columns  for  newspapers  so  that  every  advertiser  may- 
appear  simultaneously  at  "  top  of  column  next  to  reading 
matter." 

Plans  for  the  World's  Fair  in  New  -York. 
"A  BACKWARD  SPRING."  Cover  for  a  magazine  that  wouldn't  print  continued  stories. 

Advance  postal  cards  for  drummers  on  their  maiden  trip,  saying  they  "  would  arrive  about  the  20th,"  but  who 
never  arrived  at  all. 

And  so  on  and  so  forth.  In  short,  there  is  no  department  in  business 
where  a  bright,  brainy  sketch  —  a  sketch  that  tells  its  own  story — cannot 
be  utilized  to  advantage. 

I  have  lately  issued  a  catalogue  containing  some  500  designs  of  different 
subjects,  and  covering  almost  every  business.  They  are  specially  designed 
for  current  advertising,  and  a  copy  will  be  mailed  anywhere  on 
receipt  of  25c. 

Any  information  regarding  costs  will  be  furnished  whenever 
desired.  My  prices  invariably  include  the  sketch  and  engraving; 
a  separate  charge  is  made  for  manuscript. 

H.  C.  BROWN, 
Advertising  Sketches  and  Photo-Engraving, 35  &  37  Frankfort  St.  N.Y. 

References:  Jas.  Pyle's  Pearline;  Climax  Plug; 
Water  bury  Watch  Co.;  Colgate's  Cashmere  Bouquet  Soap;   Scribner's   Magazine,  etc.,  etc.,  etc. 


ALLCOCK'S 

POROUS  PLASTERS 


Always  Reliable 


Purely  Vegetable 

Absolutely  Harmless 

Have  No  Equal 


Always  Ready 


Beware  of  imitations  and  do  not 
be  deceived  by  misrepresentations. 

Ask  for  ALLCOCK'S  and  let  no 
solicitation  or  explanation  induce 
you  to  accept  a  substitute. 


Always  Safe 


Always  Effective 


What  is 


Castoria  is  Dr.  Samuel  Pitcher's  prescription  for  Infants 
and  Children.  It  contains  neither  Opium,  Morphine,  nor 
other  Narcotic  substance.  It  is  a  harmless  substitute  for 
Paregoric,  Drops,  Infant  Syrups,  and  Castor  Oil.  It  is 
Pleasant.  Its  guarantee  is  thirty  years'  use  by  Millions 
of  Mothers.  Castoria  kills  Worms.  Castoria  is  the  Chil- 
dren's Panacea— the  Mother's  Friend. 

Castoria.  Castoria 


Castoria  cures  Colic,  Constipation, 
Sour  Stomach,  Diarrhoea,  Eructation, 
Gives  healthy  sleep  and  promotes  di- 
gestion, 
Without  injurious  medication. 


"  Castoria  is  so  well  adapted  to 
children  that  I  recommend  it  as  su- 
perior to  any  prescription  known  to 
me."        H.  A.  ARCHER,  M.  D., 

Ill  So.  Oxford  St.,  Brooklyn,  N.  T. 


The  Centaur  Company,  11  Murray  Street,  N.  Y. 


Ru  si  jo  Am 

FOR   THE  TEETH.        Deliciously  Flavored,, 

Its  use  is  sanctioned  by  the  Dental  and  Medical  profession. 

The  following  certificate  is  from  the  Massachusetts  State  Assayer,  and  Pro- 
fessor of  Chemistry,  Physics,  and  Metallurgy  in  the  Boston  Dental  College  : 

To  E.  W.  Hovt  &  Co.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

Gentlemen, —  1  have  made  a  careful  examination  of  a  sample  of  "Itubi- 
foam,"  purchased  by  me  in  the  open  market,  and  find  it  free  from  acids,  grit, 
or  substances  likely  to  be  injurious  to  the  teeth  or  mouth. 

Yours  respectfully,  S.  P.  Sharples. 

LARGE  BOTTLES,  PBICE  25  CENTS.    REFUSE  SUBSTITUTES. 

PREPARED  AND   GUARANTEED    BY  E.  W.    HOYT  &  CO.,    LOWELL,    MASS. 

Manufacturers  of  the  celebrated  Hoyt's  Cerman  Coloene.      Write  for  Sample  Vial— FREE. 

WALKING  MADE  EASY. 

An  effectual  remedy  for  Galled,  Calloused,  Swollen,  Fetid,  Tender 
and  Tired  Feet.  Wood's  Walking  Made  Easy  Foot  Powders,  for 
the  complete  removal  of  Callous,  will  prevent  excessive  sweating 
of  the  feet  and  remove  all  soreness  from  Bunions.  New  Shoes  made 
easy  as  old  ones.  A  Cure  guaranteed  for  all  affections  of  the  feet. 
Sent,  post-paid,  on  receipt  of  price,  25  cents. 

WOOD  FOOT  POWDER  COMPANY,  Troy,  N.Y. 

Ideal  Felt  Tooth  Polisher. 


The  Complexion: 

PROCTER  &  GAMBLE'S  VEGETABLE  GLYCERINE 
FORMS  THE  BASIS  OF  WELL-KNOWN  PREPA- 
RATIONS FOR  PRESERVING  AND  IMPROV- 
ING   THE    COMPLEXION. 

FOR  PARTICULARS  SEE  ELEGANT  BOOK  OF 
TOILET  RECIPES  THAT  CAN  BE  PREPARED 
EASILY  AND  CHEAPLY  AT  HOME.  SENT  TO 
ANY  ADDRESS  FOR  TWO  TWO-CENT  STAMPS. 
ADDRESS, 

Procter  &  Gamble, 
Glycerine  Dep't,  Cincinnati,  0. 


ENDORSED  BY  LEADINQ  DENTISTS. 


PLAYS 


Dialogues,  Tableaux,  Speakers,  for 
School.Club  &  Parlor.  Best  out.  Cata- 
logue free.  T.  S.  DicNisoN.Chicago.IIl. 


EIGHT  REASONS   WHY  EVERY   LADY   SHOULD    USE 

FREEMAN'S  FACE  POWDER 

It  is  absolutely  harmless  :  the  purest  sci- 
ence can  produce.  Does  not  show;  will 
mot  rub  oft.  Is  used  by  society  and  dra- 
'matic  ladies.  Purifies  and  beautifies  the 
complexion  ;  gives  freshness  to  the  skin. 
Is  made  in  3  shades;  white,  pink  and 
cream.  Is  an  old  and  tried  preparation, 
thousands  of  ladies  having  used  it  for 
years.  Ask  your  druggist  for  it,  or  send 
50c.  or  25c.  for  a  box  by  mail.  Send 
2-ct.  stamp  for  lovely  perfumed  blotters. 
A  full  box  will  be  sent  feeb  to  any  one  'who, 
mentioning  this  paper,  sends  us  the  names  and  addresses  of  ten 
ladies  who  use  other  powdeks.  Send  also  three  two-cent  stamps  to 
pay  for  postage  and  packing.  FREEMAN    PERFUME  CO. 

(Estab.  1876),  523  E.  I52d  St.,  NewYork,  or  Cincinnati,  O. 


Barry's  |Sf^ 

||  Tricopherous 


FOR    THE 


M3K 


kn  elegant  dressing  exqui- 
sitely perfumed,  removes  all 
impurities  from  the  scalp,  pre- 
vents baldness  and  gray  hair, 
and  causes  the  hair  to  prow 
Thick,  Soft  and  Beautiful. 
Infallible  for  curing  eruptions, 
diseases  of  the  skin,  glands  and  niufcles,  and  quickly  healing 
cuts,  burns,  bruises,  sprains,  &c.  Price,  50  Cts.  All  Drag- 
gists.      BARCLAY  Sl  CO.,  New  York. 


NON-IRRITATING  TO  GUMS  OR  ENAMEL 

FOR  SALE  BY  ALL  DRUGGISTS 

CI       D  A   I  I      r~  \/  Patentee  and  Proprietor  of 

.  J  .  DAI  L.Q  I  ,   BAILEY'S  FAMOUS 

RUBBER  BRUSHES. 

Indorsed 
and  sold  in 
every  part 
of  the  world 
for  beauti- 
fying: and 
purifying 
tlie  skin. 

A  lady  writes 
us:  "Youought 
to  let  the  ladies 
know   that    the 
use      of      your 
'RubberBrush- 
es' several  limes 
a  day  will  viv- 
ify    the     com- 
plexion, smooth 
out    the    wrin- 
;:;;;;:     kles,   and    pre- 
p      vent   the    flesh 
;^|V;.,-       from   shrinking 
::         '       by      producing 
-i|M|  |  plumpness.       I 

*^  know  of  a  num- 

mfcVir";  ber      who     arc 

'^ip*^    '  using  them  with 

the  most  grati- 
fying results." 
PRICE-LIST  : 

Bailey's  Rubber  Bath  and  Flesh  Brush $1.50 

Bailey's        "       Toilet  Brush 25 

Bailey's        "       Hand  Brush  (size  3  x  i,1^  in. )  50 

Bailey's        "        Blacking- Dauber 25 

Bailey's        "        Ink  and  Pencil  Kr.iser 25 

Bailey's        "       Tooth  Brush,  No.  1  25 

Bailey's        "       Tooth  Brush,  No.  2 35 

Bailey's        "        Shampoo  Brush    75 

Bailey's        "        Teething  Ring. 10 

Send  us  a  postal  note,  and  we  will  forward  any  of  the  al>ove,prepaid,  upon 
receiptof  price.    For  sale  by  all  dealers  in  Toilet  Goods. 

(Agents  Wanted.)  C.  J.  BAILKY  &  CO. 

Boylston  Building,  Boylston  St.  Boston,  Mas*. 


^Hoa^Jx  jAaaAH*  0^  <A- 


Has  leased  and  remodeled  the  entire  building 
305    FIFTH    AVENUE, 

Where  a  retail  department  has  been  established  for  the  sale  of 

RECAMIER  TOILET  PREPARATIONS 

and  a  complete  line  of  the  highest  grade 

Concentrated   Odors  for  the   Handkerchief,  Scented  Waters,  Sachet  Powders, 

Dentifrices,    Manicure   Goods,    Etc. 

MANUFACTURED    EXPRESSLY   FOR    HER    IN    FRANCE. 

This  department  -will  contain  every  requisite  and  luxurious  appointment  of  a  gentlewoman's  toilet. 

A  complete  list  of  these  articles  will  be  mailed  on  receipt  of  request. 

HARRIET    HUBBARD   AYER, 

PARIS.  305  Fifth  Avenue,  New-York. 


Tiie    Finest    Perfumes 
and  Toilet  Soaps 

Are  Manufactured  by 

HOUBIGANT, 

PERFUMER 

to  HER  MAJESTY,  the  QUEEN  OF  ENGLAND,  and 
the  COURT  OF  RUSSIA, 

19  Rue  da  Faubourg  St.  Honore, 

PARIS. 


STAMMERING 

And  all  nervous  affections  of  speech  thoroughly  corrected.     For  full 
particulars  and  testimonials  from  eminent  men  and  pupils,  address 
F.  A.  BRYANT,  9  West  14th  St.  N.  Y. 

"Best  cure  for  colds,  coughs  and  consumption  is  the  old 
Vegetable  Pulmonary  Balsam."  Cutler  Bros.  &  Co.,  Boston. 
For  $1.00  by  mail,  a  large  bottle  sent  express  paid. 

IjJKJto  PORTABLE   BATHS. 


Beet  ever  Known. 


Wholesale  and  Retail. 

Agents  Wanted  Everywhere. 

Send  for  Circulars. 

E.  J.  KNOWLTON, 

Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 


ORCHID  FLOWER  PERFUMES 

(Registered). 

WOULD  you  fully  satisfy   the   requirements   of  a  refined  taste  for  exquisite 
perfumes,  use  Seely's  Orchid  Flower ;  they  are  delightful  reproductions  of 
the  odors  of  these  aristocratic  flowers. 

Stanhopea,    Galeandra,    Vanda, 
Miltonia,    Anguloa,    Calanthe. 


l-ounce  Bottles, 
2        "  " 


^'H  I  See  Cut. 


t0.7S\ 
1.50S 


If  not  to  be  obtained  of  your  druggist,  we  will  send  by  mail,  post-paid,  on  receipt  of  price. 
Sold  also  by  the  pound  to  the  drug  trade. 


SEELY  MANUFG.  CO.  S&SfKSSS?  Detroit,  Mich. 


VELVET  SKIN   SOAP 


Is  especially  prepared  for  the  delicate  skin  of  the  infant,  consequently  the  best 

for  all  toilet  purposes.    There  is  no  soap  ever  produced  that  equals  it.     It  h  made  from 

the  finest  vegetable  oils.      Most  toilet  soaps  are  made  from  animal  fats.     Any  physician 

will  tell  you  that  there  is  great  danger  of  propagating  skin  diseases  when  soaps  are  made 

from   animal  fats,  as  they  are  usually  obtained  from  refuse  sources  after  putrefaction  changes 

have  begun.     Velvet  Skin  Soap  is  composed  cf  the  following  ingredients  : 

Best  Lagos  Palm  Oil,  Bay  Berry  Tallow,  Oat  Meal  Flour  (finely  bolted), 

Best  Cochin  Cocoanut  Oil,         Pure  Olive  Oil,  Witch  Hazel  Extract. 

Slippery  Elm  Bark  (mucilaginous  portion),  Borax,  Price,  25  Cents  a  Cake. 


VELVET  SKIN   POWDER 


Is  prepared  expressly  for  Nursery  and  Toilet  purposes.     It  is  composed  of  Venetian  Talc,  Orris  Root,  Lyco- 
l     podium  and  Boracic  Acid.     Boracic  Acid  is  far  superior  to  Carbolic  Acid  as  a  Germicide  and  Antiseptic. 
■     is  delicately  scented  with  violets,  and  does  not  cake  or  harden  with  moisture ;  is  very  soothing  and  heal- 
ing to  all  irritated  surfaces.    Price,  25  cents  a  box.     Samples  of  Velvet  Skin  Soap  and  Powder 
will  be  sent  by  mail  for  15  cents  each.     Prepared  by  Reed  &  Carnrick,  Manufacturing  Chemists 
and  Pharmacists,  New- York.     Manufacturers  of  Carnrick's  Soluble  Food  and  Lacto-Prep. 
arata,  the  only  foods  for  infants  that  approach  human  milk  in  character  and  composition. 
Ask  your  physician  relative  to  the  reliability  of  all  products  of  our  house.     Send  for 
"  Our  Baby's  First  and  Second  Year,"  by  Marion  Harland,  a  book  of  64  pages,  of 
inestimable  value  to  all  mothers.     J3P  By  mail,  free.  ^3 

REED    &  CARNRICK, 

Nos.  441-449  Greenwich  Street,  New-York. 


*gs* 


3 


ASK  FOR  WOODWORTHS 

PERFUMES. 

1  BLUE  LILIES 


sraiii*™ 


v  PERFUMES  OF 

:  EXQUISITE  DELICACY 

AND  REMARKABLE 

PERMANENCE.    YOUR 

FAVORITES  AT  ONCE 

BECAUSE  THEY  ARE 

LASTING.   SOLD  BY 

ALL   DRUGGISTS. 

WRITE  TO  US  ENCLOS 

INC  25c.  IN  STAMPS 

AND    RECEIVE    ONE- 

f^  HALF  OUNCE  SAMPLE 

G.  B,  W00DW0RTH  &  SONS, 

ROCHESTER,  N.Y. 


T*IPLE  EXTRACT 

Blue  Lilies 

TRAOF    MAHIC. 

C'B*00DW0RrH&^ 

Rochester  ■*** 


FACIAL  BLEMISHES. 


The  largest  establishment  in  the  world  for  the  treatment 
of  the  hair  and  the  scalp,  eczema,  moles,  warts,  superfluous 
hair,  birthmarksr  moth,  freckles,  tan,  pimples,  wrinkles, 
red  nose,  red  Veins,  oily  skin,  acne,  blackheads,  barbers* 
itch,  scars,  pittings,  powder  marks,  bleaching,  facial  devel- 
opment, Ac.    Consultation  Free,  at  office  or  by  letter.    128. 

age  Buok  on  all  Skin  and  Scalp  Affections  and  their 

■eatment  sent,  sealed  to  any  address  on  receipt  of  lOe. 

JOHN    H.    WOODBURY.   Dermatologist, 
135  West  43d  Street,  New  York  City. 


Tr 


FACIAL  SOAP, 

FOR  THE  SKIN  AND  SCALP. 

THE  ONLY  SOAP  PREPARED  BY  A 
DERMATOLOGIST,  with  a  successful  practice  of 
over  20  years.  This  soap  has  no  equal  for  the  toilet  or 
bath,  is  unexcelled  for  shaving,  and  milder  forms  of  skin  and 
scalp  affections.  Bold  by  druggists  or  Bent  by  mail  on  re- 
ceipt of  price.  SO  cents.  Send  lOc.  for  l*8-pa*e  book. 


ISTRESSIN.G  SKIN  DISEASES 


m 


m 


DISEASE  (PSORIASIS)  first  broke  out  on  my  left  cheek,  spreading  across  my  nose  and  almost  covering  my 
face.  It  ran  into  my  eyes,  and  the  physician  was  afraid  I  would  lose  my  eyesight  altogether.  It  spread  all  over 
my  head,  and  my  hair  all  fell  out,  until  I  was  entirely  baldheaded;  it  then  broke  out  on  my  arms  and  shoulders, 

until  my  arms  were  just  one  sore.     It  covered  my  entire 
body,  my  face,  head  and  shoulders  being  the  worst.     The 
white  scabs  fell  constantly  from  my  head,  shoulders  and 
arms ;  the  skin  would  thicken  and  be  red  and  very  itchy, 
and  would  crack  and  bleed  if  scratched.     After  spending 
many  hundreds  of  dollars,  I  was 
pronounced  incurable.     I  heard  of 
the    Cuticura    Remedies,   and 
afterusing  two  bottles  of  Cuticura 
Resolvent,  I  could  see  a  change; 
and  after  I  had  taken  four  bottles, 
I  was  almost  cured ;    and  when  I 
had  used  six  bottles  of  Cuticura 
Resolvent,  and  one  box  of  Cuticura, 
and  one  cake  of  Cuticura  Soap,  I  was 
cured  of  the  dreadful  disease  from  which 
I  had  suffered  for  five  years.     I  thought 
the  disease  would  leave  a  very  deep  scar, 
but  the  Cuticura  Remedies  cured  it  without  any 
scars.     I  cannot  express  with  a  pen  what  I  suffered 
before  using  the  Cuticura  Remedies.     They  saved 
my  life,  and  I  feel  it  my  duty  to  recommend  them.    My 
hair  is  restored  as  good  as  ever,  and  so  is  my  eye- 
sight.    I  know  of  a  number  of  different  persons  who  have  used  the 
Cuticura  Remedies,  and  all  have  received  great  benefit  from 

their  use. 

Mrs.  ROSA  KELLY,  Rockwell  City,  Calhoun  Co.  Iowa. 

I  cannot  say  enough  in  praise  of  the  CUTICURA  REMEDIES.     My  boy,  when  one  year  of  age,  was  so  bad  with  eczema 

that  he  lost  e11  of  his  hair.     His  scalp  was  covered  with  eruptions,  which  the  doctor  said  was  scald  head,  and  that  his 

hair  would  never  grow  again.     Despairing  of  a  cure  from  physicians,  I  began  the  use  of  the  Cuticura  Remedies, 

and,  I  am  happy  to  say,  with  the  most  perfect  success.     His  hair  is  now  splendid,  and  there  is  not  a  pimple  on  him.     I 

recommend  the  Cuticura  Remedies  to  mothers  as  the  most  speedy,  economical  and  sure  cure  for  all  skin  diseases  of 

infants  and  children,  and  feel  that  every  mother  will  thank  me  for  so  doing. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  WOODSUM,  Norway,  Me. 

CUTICURA  REMEDIES 

For  cleansing,  purifying  and  "beautifying  the  skin  and  scalp  and  curing  every  species  of  agonizing,  humiliating,  itching, 
burning,  scaly  and  pimply  diseases  of  the  skin,  SCALP  AND  BLOOD,  and  humors,  blotches,  eruptions,  sores,  scales, 
crusts,  ulcerations,  swellings,  abscesses,  tumors  and  loss  of  hair,  whether  simple,  scrofulous  or  contagious,  the 
Cuticura  Remedies  are  simply  infallible. 

Cuticura,  the  great  skin  cure,  instantly  allays  the  most  agonizing  itching  and  inflammation,  clears  the  skin  and 
scalp  of  every  trace  of  disease,  heals  ulcers  and  sores,  removes  crusts  and  scales  and  restores  the  hair.  Cuticura 
Soap,  the  greatest  of  skin  beautifiers,  is  indispensable  in  treating  skin  diseases  and  baby  humors.  It  produces  the 
whitest,  clearest  skin  and  softest  hands,  free  from  pimple,  spot  or  blemish.  CUTICURA  RESOLVENT,  the  new  blood 
purifier,  cleanses  the  blood  of  all  impurities  and  poisonous  elements,  and  thus  removes  the  CAUSE.  Hence  the  CUTI- 
CURA Remedies  are  the  only  infallible  curatives  for  every  form  of  skin  and  blood  disease,  from  pimples  to  scrofula. 

Price:  Cuticura,  50  cents  per  box;  Cuticura  Soap,  25  cents;  Cuticura  Resolvent,  $1.00  per  bottle.  Pre- 
pared by  the  Potter  Drug  and  Chemical  Corporation,  Boston,  Mass. 

t^3  Send  for  "  How  to  Cure  Skin  Diseases,"  64  pages,  50  illustrations,  100  testimonials. 


P|  MAPLES,  black-heads,  red,  rough,  chapped  and  oily  skin  pre- 
I   I IVI     vented  by  Cuticura  Soap. 


HANDS 


Soft,    white  and  free   from   chaps   and   redness,  by 
using  Cuticura  Soap. 


We  are  children  who  cheerfully  10m  in  the  chorus 
When  PACKER'S  TAR  SOAP  is  the  subject  before  ui 

Mama  tried  all  the  rest, 

5o  she  knows  it's  the  best, 
And  we  lai#  with  delight  when  she  lathers  it  oer  us. 

Christine  Terhune  Herrick  (Cradle  and  Nursery, p.  43) 
says :  "  For  baby's  bath  Packer's  Tar  Soap  is  preferable  to  all 
others.  .  .  In  removing  scurf  or  dandruff  from  the  baby's  head, 
in  relieving  the  itching  and  irritation  caused  by  chafing,  it  is  beyond 
compare." 

PACKER'S  TAR  SOAP 

Is  composed  of  sweet  vegetable  oils,  pine-tar  and  glycerine.  It  is 
remarkably  pure,  bland  and  emollient;  lathers  freely,  and  is  the 
ideal  soap  for  toilet,  bath  and  shampoo.  Its  great  value  as  an  anti- 
septic, deodorant,  and  remedy  in  skin  diseases  is  well  known. 

Sold  by  druggists,  25  cents.  Mention  The  Century,  and  send 
10  cents  for  sample  (half-cake)  to 

THE  PACKER  MFG.  CO.  100  Fulton  St.  N.Y. 


APPRECIATED 

BY 

bOVEf^S 


OF  LUXURY. 


The  prophylactic 
Tooth  Brush. 

THE  IDEAL  BRUSH. 


PERSONAL  COMFORT  DEMANDS  THE  USE 
OF  THE  FLORENCE  DENTAL  PLATE 
BRUSH   IF  YOU  HAVE  ARTIFICIAL  TEETH. 

KEPT  BY  ALL  DEALERS. 

CIRCULARS  FREE,  FROM 

FLORENCE  MFG.  CO. 

FLORENCE,    MASS. 


**%  PERFUMES  &r 

Made  from  flowers 

IN  THE  LAND  OF  FLOWERS 


Sweet  South, 
Picciola. 
Roussel  Rose. 
Eden  Bouquet. 
Luneas. 


Doussan  Violet. 
Frangipanni. 
Lys  des  Incas. 
Imperial  Pink. 
Persian  Heliotrope. 
Mandarin  Orange  Bloom. 
Japan  Hyacinth. 

Demand  them  of  your  druggist,  or,  if  he 
can't  supply  you,  send  us  20  cents  in  stamps 
and  your  address,  and  we  will  mail  you  sam- 
ples of  all  above-vvith  instructions  "How  to  testy 
We  will  convince  you  that  they  are  the  most 
delicate  and  most  lasting  perfumes  made. 

DOUSSAN  FRENCH  PERFUMERY  CO. 

46  Chartres  St.  New  Orleans,  La. 


May,  *90. 


EDWIN    C.    BURT    &    CO. 

Manufacturers  and  Exporters  of 

Fine  Boots,  Shoes  and  Slippers 

For  LADIES  AND  CHILDREN. 


Popular, 
Stylish, 

Durable, 
Elegant. 


See  that  every  pair  is  stamped 

Edwin  C.  Burt 


MAKER    r 
NEW  YORK 


Lining  Stamp. 


on  "Lining:  and  Sole  of  each 
shoe  as  shown  in  trade- 
marks.    Our  goods  are  made  in  all  widths  of 
Lasts,  every  style  of  shoe,  sole,  toe  or  heel  required. 

Ask  Your  Dealers  for  Them, 

If  they  will  not  furnish  you,  write  to  us  for  information  where 
they  can  be  had. 

EDWIN  C.  BURT  &  CO.  New-York,  U.  S.  A. 


DON'T 
WEAR 

STIFF 

Corsets 

that  ruin 

your  health 

and  comfort. 

TRY 

GOOD 
SENSE" 

Money  returned 
if  not  satis- 
factory. 


FERRIS'  Patent 

COOD 

SENSE 

Corset  Waists. 

Ring  Buckle  at  Hip  for 

Hose  Supporters. 
Tape-fastened  Buttons— 

won't  pull  off. 

Cord-Edge  Button 

Holes — won't  wear  out 

3EST  MATERIALS 

throughout. 

FIT  ALL  AGES 

Infants  to  Adult. 

Child 
.50 
.70 
.75 

Miss 
.70 
.75 

.80 
.85 

Young 

Ladies 

1.00 

1.10 

Ladies 

l.OO 

1.25 

1.50 

1.75 

2.00 

Mailed  free 

on  receipt 

of  price,  by 

FERRIS  BROS.,  Mfrs., 
341  Broadway,  New  York; 
HARSH  ILL  FIELD  &  CO.,  Chicago' 

Wholesale  Western  Agenta. 
1.  KICHAItn  FREUD  «fc  CO., 

Wholesale  Western  Agents,  728  Market  St.,  8an  Francisco,  CaL 


Yatisi. 


oo.      Nursing, 
prepaid.    Send 


FITS 
EASY. 

Let  every  uncomfortable  wo- 
man know  it — There  is  an  easy 
corset  for  her;  and  faultless. 

Here  is  the  proof:  If  it  is  n't 
all  you  expect,  and  more,  return 
it.  You  will  get  your  money 
without  a  word.  But  you  wont 
return  it. 

We  send  by  mail  if  your  mer- 
chant hasn't  got  it  yet.  If  he 
has  it,  his  prices  are  the  same  as 
ours,  less  postage.  All  we  want 
is  to  get  the  news  to  you.     The  corset  will  do  the  rest. 

^r~n=TMa1  Ordinary  shapes,  $1.35,  $165,  $2. 
opCUdi.  $1.50.  Abdominal,  $2.00.  Postage 
waist  measure,  and  say  if  long  or  short  waisted. 

CROTTY    BROTHERS,  NEW-YORK. 

The  highest  authorities  unanimously  indorse 

BRAINERD  &  ARMSTRONG'S 
WASH    SILKS. 

UNFADING  ASIATIC  DYES. 

Sensational  advertising  is  always  strictly  avoided 
in  offering  Brainerd  &  Armstrong's  Fast-Dyed 
Embroidering  Silks,  but  the  fact  that  there  are  in 
the  market  many  worthless  imitations  that 
will  not  wash,  of  brainerd  &  armstrong's 
Rope,  Filo,  Outlining,  Twisted,  Knitting, 
Crocheting,  Underwear,  Naturelle  and 
Couching  Silks,  necessitates  a  word  of  Caution  to 
A  rt  Embroiderers.  See  that  every  Skein,  Hank, 
Ball,  or  Spool  bears  our  name.    No  other  is  genuine. 

THE   BRAINERD  &.  ARMSTRONG  CO. 

FACTORIES,  NEW  LONDON,  CONN. 
Leading   Manufacturers  in  the  world  of  mate- 
rials for  high-class  Needlework  and 
Decorative  Embroidering. 


Ladies'   Silk 

Rubber 

Mackintosh 

Garments. 


The  most  beauti- 
ful ever  shown  in 
this  or  any  other 
market,  weighing 
only  from  10  to  12 
oz.  each. 


Send  for   samples  and 

directions  for' 

measuring. 


BARKER    &    CO. 

27  Maiden  Lane,  cor.  Nassau  Street. 

NEW-YORK  CITY. 


COLLARS  AND  CUFFS 

FOR  GENTLEMEN. 

CLUETT,  COON  &  CO. 

MANUFACTURERS. 


Cluett,Coon&  Co. 


^Ci^UL&d 


TO  R  E  D  A 


~<XAJ2X£<1 


NATILLO 


HEIGHT  IN   FRONT 

2    iN 


SPACE    V/z  IN 
[WIDTH    FRONT  2/4  IN 


CLUETT,    COON    &    CO'S 

©  H  I  R,  T  8. 

SOLD    EVERYWHERE 
WITH     INCREASING    POPULARITY. 


RADE 


MARK. 


Look  at  these  pictures.  What  do  you  want  shoes  for? 
to  look  well  on  the  foot,  or  to  look  well  when  held  in  the 
hand  ? 


The  James  Means  $3  Shoe  will  not  please  spendthrifts. 
We  do  not  claim  that  it  is  the  most  stylish  shoe  ever  sold; 
what  we  do  claim  is,  that  no  shoe  of  any  price,  li;t  v  in^ 
its  durability,  can  compare  with  it  in  style,  finish 
and  perfection  of  fit. 

Every  genuine  pair  is  stamped  plainly  on  the  sole 

JAMES  MEANS 
$3  SHOE. 

If  the  name  is  not  spelled  exactly  as  you  see  it  here,  the 
shoes  are  only  imitations  of  our  James  Means  $3  Shoe, 
which  is  the  original  $3  Shoe. 

Any  retailer  in  the  United  States  can  supply  you  if  you 
do  not  let  him  sell  you  some  less  durable  shoe  which  pays 
him  a  larger  profit.  If  your  dealer  will  not  supply  you, 
please  write  us  a  postal  card,  giving  us  his  name  and  tell- 
ing us  what  he  says  to  you.  Then  you  will  hear  from  us. 
These  shoes  are  made  in  Lace,  Button  and  Congress,  with 
extra  quality  elastics.  If  you  have  been  disappointed  by 
the  imitations  of  our  goods,  that  must  make  you  all  the 
more  anxious  to  get  the  genuine. 

JAMES  MEANS  &  CO.  41  Lincoln  St.,  Boston. 


0) 

013 


l-H 

u 
© 

© 

3 


Unsurpassed 
wearing  quality,  with 

a  finish,  like  silk. 

None  genuine  without 

our  Trade-Mark 

on  each  pair. 


,© 
© 

Oh' 


Complete 

assortment  for 

men,   women  and 

children. 

SEND  FOR 

PRICE-LIST. 


o 
o 


H 

Hi 

O 

w 
H 

H 


0 
A    « 

O    rH 
60  O 

«   © 
©    - 

U     > 


© 


H     63 


m 


s 

a  .2 

o   5 

r.    .3 

o  o 
H   , 

V    © 

*s 

*J  en 
© 
*    1 


4) 


M 


o  »0 


SEA  MONSTER 


IF  YOU  CANNOT 


REACH  ONE   OF  OUR  BRANCH  STORES,  WRITE   US  AT 
ONCE    AND    WE    WILL    MAIL    YOU,   FREE,  52  SAMPLES   TO 

SELECT    FROM    WITH     SELF-MEASUREMENT    BLANKS. 

Address,  PLYMOUTH  EOCE  PANTS  CO.,  11  to  17  Eliot  Street,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Pat.  Jan.  6,  1874. 
Pat.  Feb.  15,  1876. 


Flynt  Waist,  or  True  Corset. 

No.  1  represents  a  high-necked  garment. 
No.  2  a  low-necked  one,  which  admits  of  be- 
ing high  in  the  back  and  low  front.  No.  3  is 
to  illustrate  our  mode  of  adjusting  the  "  Flynt 
Hose  Support"  each  side  of  the  hip;  also, 
the  most  correct  way  to  apply  the  waistbands 
for  the  drawers,  under  and  outside  petticoats 
and  dress  skirts.  No.  4  shows  the  Flynt 
Extension  and  Nursing  Waist, appreciated  by 
mothers.  No.  5,  the  Misses'  Waist,  with 
Hose  Supports  attached.  No.  6,  how  we 
dress  very  little  people.  No.  7  illustrates  how 
the  -warp  threads  of  the  fabrics  cross  at  right 
angles  in  the  back,  thereby  insuring  in  every 
waist  the  most  successful  Shoulder 

Brace  ever  constructed. 

It  is  universally  indorsed   by  eminent   physicians   as  the  most 

Scientific  Waist  or  Corset  known. 

THE    FLYNT    WAIST 

is  the  only  garment  manufactured  where  the  material  of  which  it  is 
made  is  shrunk  before  cut,  the  only  one  which  in  its  natural  con- 
struction contains  a 

SHOULDER    BRACE 

which  supports  the  bust  from  the  shoulders,  and  (so  essential  to  large 
girls  or  women)  thereby  overcomes  the  objectionable  abdominal  de- 
velopment. The  Flynt  Waist,  fitting  superbly,  permits  that  most 
desirable  grace  of  motion  possible  only  with  perfect  respiration 
gained  by  freedom  from  compression. 

For  singers,  actresses,  teachers,  or  pupils  of  elocution  or  physical 
exercise,  for  equestrians  or  invalids,  for  every  girl  or  woman,  the 
Flynt  W;iist  is  unequaled. 

Thousands  of  ladies,  whom  we  have  fitted  by  mail  satisfactorily, 
are  constantly  blessing  its  inventor. 

I^3  Our  "  Manual,''  containing  48  pages  of  reading-matter  re- 
lating to  the  subject  of  Hygienic  Modes  of  Under-dressing,  Sent 
Free  to  any  physician  or  lady,  on  application  to 

Mrs.  0.  P.  FLYNT,  319  Columbus  Ave.  Boston,  Mass. 

Columbus  Avenue  cars  pass  the  house  from  all  depots. 


Ask  for 

"  Hodgman's  " 

Double  Texture  Tailor-made 

Water-proof  Cassimere   Coats,  or 

"  Mackintoshes." 


Better  than  English.      No  Breaking  at  the  Seams. 

Soft  and  Pliable  at  any  Temperature. 

No  Disagreeable  odor  like  Foreign  Garments. 

Full  Line  of  Patterns  and  Sizes. 

Perfect  Fitting  and  Durable. 

Double  Texture  Coats.    Ladies'  Mackintosh  Cloaks. 

Very  Popular  Prices. 

Satisfaction  Guaranteed. 

Before  Buying  Elsewhere  Send  for  Circu- 
lar and  Samples  to 


Rubber  Company, 

Sole  Manufacturers, 

459  &  461  Broadway,  cor.  Grand  St.  N.  Y. 


Le  Boutillier  Bros. 

Broadway  &  14th  St. 

NEW-YORK  CITY. 


Special  Bargains 


WASH    FABRICS. 

French  Satines,  selected  styles,  33c.  quality SO.  14 

Best  Domestic  Wool  Challies,  choice  designs 18 

Finest  Scotch  Ginghams,  our  own  import' n,  worth  35c.       .35 
French  Challies,  all  wool,  latest  styles  and  colorings 49 

DreSS   CoOdS.— 4o-inch  French  Stripes,  plain 

to  match,  for  combination  suits,  worth  $1.25 75 

40-inch  colored  Silk  Warp  Henrietta,  Spring  shades, 

worth  $1.25 .89 

40-inch  French  Checks,  and  Pantaloon  Stripes, 

silk  mixed,  latest  London  and  Paris  styles,  worth  $1.50.     1.00 
50-inch  Silk  and  Wool  Pongee,  plain  colors  and  stripes, 

worth  $1.75 1.39 

Si  I  ks.—  Black  Faille  Francaise,  worth  $1.35 1.00 

Black  Surah  Dress  Silk,  fine  quality 69 

New  Novelties  in  Stripes,  Brocades,  Plaids,  choice 

colorings,  worth  $1.50 1.00 

UphOJStery. —  Rich  Damask   Silk   Curtains,   choice 

colorings,  worth  $23.00  per  pair 13.50 

Real  Irish  Point  Curtains,  fine  quality,  choice   designs, 

worth  $20.00  per  window 12.00 

Oriental    Chenille   Portieres,    rich    quality,    solid    colors, 

fringed  top  and  bottom,  worth  $15.00 9. 75 

Daghestan  Rugs,  fine  quality,  choice  designs,  large  sizes, 

worth  $15.00 '. 8.90 

New  Illustrated  Catalogue  mailed  Free  on  Application. 
A II  mail  matter  should  bear  our  street  address, 

BROADWAY   AND   14-TH   ST.  N.  Y. 


LADIES 


WAULKINGPHAST    BOOTS. 

See  page  66,  April  "Century." 


NOTtorGENTLEMEN 

BUT   FOR  THEIR 

WIVES,  DAUGHTERS, 
SWEETHEARTS. 

The  Spring  number  oj 

MODES  IN  COIFFURES, 

the  most  valuable  gift  to  present,  for  its  styles,  its 
lessons  in  the  ART  of  Hair  Dressing,  and  how  a 
woman  can  be  made  lovable  without  the  aid  of  Cos- 
metics, and  also  what  she  looks  like,  with  the  advice 

of  MME.  THOMPSON, 

SendlOc.  for  copy.  224  Fifth  Avenue,  New-York. 

CORSETS, 
WAISTS 

and 


Send  for 
Catalogue 

and 
Price  last. 


DELSARTE    CORSET    CO., 
142  West  23d  Street,  New  York. 


Established  1861. 


2. 

This  is  the  Roll  on  which  is  wound 

The  Braid  that  is  known  the  world  around. 


ENDORSED  BY  ANNIE  JENNESS  MILLER. 


Illustrated  Catalogue  mailed  free  to  any  address,  by  the  manufacturers, 

GEO.  FROST  &  CO.  21  BEDFORD  ST.  BOSTON. 


CAUTION ! 


Take  no  shoes  unless  W.  L.  Douglas' 
name  and  price  are  stamped  on  bot- 
tom.    If  your  dealer  cannot  supply 
you,  send  direct  to  factory,  inclosing  advertised  price. 


W.  L.  DOUGLAS 

$3     SHOE      GENTLEMEN. 

Fine  Calf  Laced  Grain  and  Creedmoor  Waterproof.  Our  claims 
for  this  Shoe  over  all  other  $3.00  shoes : 

It  contains  better  material.  It  is  more  stylish,  better  fitting  and 
durable.  It  gives  better  general  satisfaction.  Its  great  success  is 
due  to  merit.  It  cannot  be  duplicated  by  any  other  manufacturer. 
It  is  the  best  in  the  world,  and  has  a  larger  demand  than  any  other 
$3.00  shoe  advertised.  S8«5000  will  be  paid  to  any  person  who 
will  prove  the  above  statements  to  be  untrue. 

Also  $5.00,  $4.00,  $3.50,  $2.50,  $2.25,  $2.00  Shoes  for  Men  ; 
$2.00  and  $1.75  Shoes  for  Boys;  $3.00  and  $2.00  Shoes  for 
Ladies  and  $1.75  Shoe  for  Misses. 

W.  L.  DOUGLAS,  Brockton,  Mass. 

Webster's  Celebrated 
ENGLISH  GRAIN  CREEDMOOR, 

double  sole  and  tap,  hand-nailed,  best 
English  Grain  stock,  bellows-tongue, 
perfectly  water-proof,  made  on  an  ex- 
tremely easy  last,  very  durable.  6th 
year  advertised.  Sent  by  mail  or  ex- 
press, prepaid,  $5.50. 

F.   P.  WEBSTER, 

277  Washington  St.  Boston,  Mass. 
Measure  work  of  all  kinds.     Send  stamp 
for  catalogue. 


HUB  GORE  SHOES 


are  all  insured  for  1^  years  free. 

They  cost  from  $3.00  to  $15.00. 

They  look  better,   fit   better,   feel 
better,  and  last  longer  than  all  others. 

Every  shoe-store  sells  them. 


SHOE  cut  open  to  show 

HEART         TRADE    -   MARK 
ON     INSIDE     OF     ELASTIC. 


DRESS  REFORM  GOODS, 

Agents  wanted  for  Reform  Skirt,  Ladies  Waist,  etc  N»w 
goods,  reduced  Prices.  Don't  you  want  to  represent  us  in 
your  locality  and  make  a  little  money!  Don't  vmsteyour 
time  on  old  goods,  but  try  the  new.  Catalogue  free. 
LADIES  SUPPLY  CO.,  287  W.    Washington  St.,    CHICAGO. 

r  1 1  Q  A  n  r      Select  parties  to  Europe,  the  Holy  Land  and  Round 
L  U  II U  I   L  1    the  World.      Programmes  free.      Gaze's  Tourist 
Gazette  5c.     Best  ticketing  facilities.     (Established  1844. ) 
HENEY  GAZE  &  SON,  940  Broadway,  New- York. 


SPECIAL  TELEGRAPH  OUTFIT 

For  Students  or  Professionals,  Old  or  Young. 
COMPLETE  OUTFIT,  $4.00. 

Sounder  and  Key  Frame  made  of  telegraph  metal,  hand-finished,  rubber-covered 
Magnets,  nickel-plated  Key  Lever,  all  mounted  on  handsome  mahogany  base. 
Battery,  Chemicals  and  Book  of  Instructions.  The  most  complete  student's  outfit 
on  the  market,  and  not  to  be  classed  with  so-called  cheap  "  Learner's  sets."  Com- 
plete catalogue  of  Telegraph  Instruments  and  Supplies,  with  instructions,  the  "Art 
of  Telegraphy,"  by  mail,  20  cents. 

GAYNOR  ELECTRIC  CO.  Louisville,  Ky. 


Dont 

spoil  your 
Feet  with 

Cheap 
Shoes : 


fVWEARTHE  f-> 


See  that  every  pair  is  stamped 
The  Burt  &  Packard. 

"Korrect   Shape.9' 


DON'T  PERMIT  ANY   SUBSTITUTE  for  the 

"  Korrect  Shape,"  as  we  have  arranged  to  supply  any 
one  in  the  United  States  who  cannot  get  these  goods  of 
our  agents,  and  prepay  all  delivery  charges,  thus  bringing 
them  to  your  door  without  extra  cost. 

The  Burt  &  Packard  "Korrect  Shape"  Shoes  are 
made  in  four  grades,  and  each  grade,  viz.,  Hand-made, 
Hand-welt,  Burtwelt  and  Machine  Sewed,  is  stamped  on 
the  sole  in  addition  to  our  trade-mark  above.  This  trade- 
mark—  showing  the  foot  in  a  natural  position  within  a 
shoe,  and  also  the  words  "Korrect  Shape" — is  fully  cov- 
ered under  the  Patent  laws,  and  we  shall  be  glad  of  any 
information  where  dealers  are  making  use  of  either  of 
these  designs  in  the  hope  of  deceiving  the  public. 

Our  agents  should  carryall  styles  in  Congress,  Button, 
and  Ba'l.  for  Gents,  Boys  and  Youths. 

All  information  concerning  our  different  styles,  kinds 
of  stock,  how  to  obtain  these  goods,  etc.,  forwarded  by 
simply  naming  this  publication,  with  your  address  in  full. 

PACKARD   &   FIELD, 

Brockton,  Mass. 

(Successors  to  BURT  &  PACKARD.) 


If  you  want  PERFECTION  in  fit,  with  freedom  from  CORNS   and  all  DISCOMFORT,  yon  will  never 
wear  anything  except  THE  BURT  &  PACKARD  "  KORRECT  SHAPE  "  SHOES. 


SPOOL  AND  KNITTING  SILK. 

DRESS   SILK,  COAT    LINING,   UMBRELLAS. 


SIZES 

EXACT AND 

UN  I  FORM. 

SMOOTH,  STRONG. 

SEAMS  WILL  NOT  RIP. 

The  Best  IS  the  Cheapest. 


Hutchinson's  Gloves  are  the  Best. 

Made  with  care,  and  warranted.  Send  stamp  to  the  manufac- 
turer for  the  book  about  gloves  and  how  to  get  them.  It  will 
interest  you.     Established  1862. 

JOHN   C.    HUTCHINSON,  Johnstown,  N.  Y. 

PATENT     NOVELTY    FOLDING     COIN    PURSE. 

The  Most  Roomy  and  Least  Bulky  Purse  Made. 

Very  popular,  as  it  cannot 
lose  small  change,  and  has  no 
catch  or  frame  to  break,  get  out 
of  order,  or  wear  out  the  pocket. 

Sample  in  black,  red  or 
brown  morocco  mailed,  post- 
age prepaid,  on  receipt  of  50c, 
or  of  genuine  seal  for  $1.00. 

JAMES  S.  TOPHAM, 

1231  Pennsylvania  Avenue  N.  W.,  Washington,  D.  C. 

The  trade  supplied.     Write  fcr  prices. 
Mention  The  Century. 


it  PAT.    MAR  ll»'l»r 


Stern  Bros. 

direct  attention  to  their 

Weekly  Importations 


OF 


Paris  Costumes, 
WF^APS, 


%       sfc      #       % 


•  BONNETS,      • 

*  *    HATS  ^   *    * 
LINGERIE 


%       ^ 


From  the  Leading  Paris  Modistes, 

which,  with  the  productions  of 

THEIR  OWN  WORKROOMS, 

enable  them  to  offer  at  all  seasons  the  largest  and 
choicest  collections  to  be  found  in  the  city. 

Dressmaking  Departments. 

• 

With  a  large  staff  of  the  most  competent  fitters  and 

designers,  they  are  in  position  to  give 

the  utmost  satisfaction. 

ORDERS   AND   INQUIRIES   RECEIVE  IMME- 
DIATE  ATTENTION. 

32-34-36  West  23d  St. 

NEW  YORK. 


WASH  SILKS. 

. n  i »  . 

These  silks,  which  were  introduced  last  year,  have  become  exceedingly  popular ;     they  are  just 
adapted  for  wear  during  the  next  three  or  four  months. 

The  new  colorings  and  designs  —  plain  stripes  and  plaids  —  are  very  attractive,  the  full  line  em- 
bracing over  one  hundred  different  patterns  and  colors.     They  are  24  inches  wide,  and  $1.00  per  yard. 

Samples  of  these  trustworthy  goods  will  be  sent  on  receipt  of  six  cents  in  postage  stamps. 

<#.*.«» 

James  McCreery  &  Co.,  Broadway  and  llth  St,,  N.Y. 


The  Youth's  Companion  is  publishing,  as  a  special  feature  of  the 
present  volume,  the  Prize  Short  Stories,  obtained  through  the  recent 
competition.  The  Titles  and  Authors,  and  the  amounts  paid  for  each 
successful  story,  are  as  follows. 


Short  Stories  for  Boys. 


$1,000,    First  Prize.    "A  LOST  HERO,"  by  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps  and  H.  D.  Ward. 
500.    Second  Prize.    "LITTLE  JARVIS,"  by  Miss  Mollie  Eliot  Seawell. 
250.    Third  Prize.    "THE  SPRING  HILL  TELEGRAPH  CO.,"  by  Elbert  C.  Little. 


Prize  Stories  for  Girls. 

$1,000.    First  Prize.    "WAY  OUT  'N  THE  PRARY  KENTRY,"  by  Fred  L.  Eaton. 
500.    Second  Prize.    "THE  SLOSSONS  OF  BANGVILLE,"  by  James  T.  McKay. 
250.    Third  Prize.    "CLA'SY  ANN,"  by  Miss  Maria  L.  Pool. 


Stories  of  Adventure. 

$1,000.    First  Prize.    "ON  THE  BRINK,"  by  Warren  L.  Wattis. 

500.    Second  Prize.    "A  BRAVE  MIDDY,"  by  Mrs.  Maria  Mcintosh  Cox. 
250.    Third  Prize.    "PURSER  WATKINS,"  by  Harry  C.  Stickney. 


"On  the  Brink,"  the  First  Prize  Story  of  Adventure,  is  published  in  the  issue  of  February 
27th,  "A  Brave  Middy,"  the  Second  Prize  Story  of  Adventure,  on  March  6th. 


For  Immediate  Publication. 


His  Female  Relation, 

by  the  author  of  "Redmond,  of  the  Seventh,"  a 
Serial  Story  in  Eight  Chapters  depicting  life  in  a 
Boys'  Military  School,  is  now  being  published. 

The  Care  of  the  Eyes  in  Yonth. 

An    article    by  the  eminent  oculist  Dr.  D.  B.  St. 
John  Roosa,  which  every  young  person  should  read. 


Way  Ont  'n  the  Prary  Kentry, 

the  first  Prize  Story  for  girls,   a  story  appropriate  to 
Memorial  Day,  will  be  published  in  May. 

A  Lost  Hero, 

the  first  Prize  Story  for  boys  by  Elizabeth  Stuart 
Phelps  and  Herbert  D.  Ward,  will  be  published  in 
one  of  the  June  Numbers. 


Subscriptions  can  begin  at  any  time,  price  $1.75  a  year,  post-paid.    Double  Souvenir 
Numbers  at  Thanksgiving,  Christmas,  New  Year's  and  Easter.     Supplements  nearly  every  week. 

The  Youth's  Companion,  Boston,  Mass. 

(Send  Check,  Money  Order  or  Registered  Letter  at  our  risk.) 


Young  Ladies'  Journal. 


THE  BEST  JOURNAL  FOR 

LADIES  AND  FAMILIES. 

The  May  Part  of  the  YOUNG  LADIES'  JOURNAL,  is  NOW  READY. 

It  contains  the  beginning  of  a  new  story,  **  A  RED  DAWN  "  ;  the  continuation 
of  "FLOWER  O'  THE  MAY,"  which  was  begun  in  the  March  fart  ; 
several  complete  stories  ; 

SPLENDID  COLORED  PARISIAN  FASHION  PLATE 

of  24  illustrations  of  Summer  Toilets  for  Ladies  and  Children  ;  a  Beau- 
tiful Colored  Design ;  Drape  for  Bracket  in  Embroidery ;  the 
Gigantic  Supplement  ■with  a  great  number  of  Fashion  Illustra- 
tions ;  also,  full-size  Patterns;  Cookery  Recipes;  Pastimes;  Music; 
Poetry ;   Fancy  Work  of  all  sorts,  etc.,  etc. 

NO  LADY  SHOULD  FAIL  TO  READ  THIS  NUMBER. 

PRICE,  30  CENTS  A  COPY ;   OR,  YEARLY,  $4.00, 

INCLUDING  THE  EXTRA  CHRISTMAS  NUMBER. 

For  Sale  by  all  Newsdealers. 

The  YOUNG  LADIES'  JOURNAL  is  published  monthly,  ON  THE 
15th  OF  THE  MONTH  PREVIOUS  TO  ITS  DATE. 

Any  newsdealer  will  take  your  subscription  for  two  or  three  months,  or  for  any 
other  period,  beginning  with  any  issue. 


<£$&&*>*. 


THE    INTERNATIONAL 

One  Door  East  of  Broadway, 


NEWS    COMPANY, 

83  &  85  Duane  Street,  New- York. 


H 


AVE    YOU    SEEN|^ 

COLORED  STUDIES  ! 


We  will  send  you  j^J 

Four  Beautiful  Studies  by  |g 

Lida  Clarkson,  in  Colors,  and  a     p< 
Sample  Copy  of  Ingalls'  |g 

Home  Magazine,  all  for  12  Kg 

2-cent  stamps  (24  cents).  Address  p> 
J.  F.  Ingalls,  Pub.,  Lynn,  Mass.  fe 


*w 


PATENTS 

MUNN  &  CO.,  of  the  Scientific  American,  continue  to  act  as 
Solicitors  for  Patents,  Caveats,  Trade-Marks,  Copyrights  for  the 
United  States,  Canada,  England,  France,  Germany,  etc.  Hand- 
book about  Patents  sent  free.     Over  forty  years'  experience. 

To  one  who  has  made  an  invention  or  discovery,  the  first  inquiry 
that  suggests  itself  is,  "Can  I  obtain  a  Patent?"  If  so,  "How 
shall  I  proceed?     Whom  shall  I  consult?    How  much  will  it  cost?  " 

The  quickest  way  to  settle  these  queries  without  expense  is  to 
write  to  us  (Munn  &  Co.),  describing  the  invention.  We  will  im- 
mediately answer  whether  or  not  we  think  the  invention  is  patent- 
able; and,  if  so,  give  the  necessary  instructions  for  further  pro- 
cedure.    For  this  advice  we  make  no  charge. 

Patents  obtained  through  MUNN  &  CO.  are  noticed  in  the 
Scientific  American,  the  largest,  best  and  most  widely  circulated 
scientific  paper.  $3.00  a  year,  weekly.  Splendid  engravings  and 
interesting  information.  Specimen  copy  of  the  Scientific  Ameri- 
can sen  t  free. 

Address  MUNN    &   CO.,   Scientific   American   Office,   361 
Broadway,  New- York. 
May,  '90. 


THE  ART  INTERCHANGE 


Moonlight. —  Oil  colors. 


To  be  given  to  1890  Subscribers. 

April,  May,  Jnne,  1890. 

THREE  MONTHS 
ON  TRIAL,  for 

SEVEN  ISSUES.  SEVEN  DESIGN  SUPPLE- 

MENTS.       SEVEN  COLORED  PLATES. 

The  Colored  Plates  are  as  follows : 
Hollybocks,  Study  of  Mountains 

Trumpet  Elower,  (Catskills), 

Cupids  (Large  screen  panel  1),     Daffodils, 
Birds,  Cupids  ( Large  screen  panel  2), 

or 
Send  us  $2.50  and  we  will  send  you  a  six  months'  subscription, 
giving  you  in  addition  to  copies  of  the  paper  the  follovying  colored 
plates:  A  Breaking  Wave,  Plums,  A  Sugar  Camp,  Lilacs,  Breton 
Peasant  Woman,  Sunrise,  Italian  Girl,  Hollyhocks,  Trumpet 
Flower,  Cupids  (Panel  No.  1),  Mountains,  Daffodils,  Cupids 
(Panel  No.  2). 

Catalogue  with  nearly  100  illustrations  free.  Sample  Copy 
and  your  choice  of  large  Colored  Landscape,  "  The 
Old  Barn,"  by  Cookman,  or  figure  sketch,  "  Brittany  Peasant," 
by  Satterlee,  sent  for  20  cents  in  Stamps.  $4.00  a  Year. 
Twenty-six  beautiful  colored  plates,  twenty-six  decorative  design 
supplements,  twenty-six  20-page  issues,  520  pages.  Address, 
mentioning  May  Century, 

THE    ART    INTERCHANGE    CO. 

37  and  39  West  23d  Street,  New- York. 


Beginners  in  advertising  must  learn  to 
creep  before  they  walk; 

Art  in  Advertising, 

an  illustrated  monthly  paper,  containing,  as  it  'does, 
articles    by  men  who  have  learned   to  walk  is   of 
practical  assistance. 

Of  course  it  wont  interest  everybody,  but  it 
will  interest  those  who  are  pushing  their  business 
and  "getting  on." 

Artemas  Ward  of  Sapolio  fame,  Cyrus  H.   K. 

Curtis  of  The  Ladies  Home  Journal,  J.  E.  Powers 

0{^%r  \W      and   H.  C.  Brown  contribute  to  the  May  number. 

We  have  no  exchange  list,  free  list,  or  sample  copy   department;  25 
cents  will  bring  it  for  three  months,  or  better  still,  remit  $1.00  for  a  year. 

ART   IN    ADVERTISING    CO.  35  &  37  Frankfort  Street,  New- York. 


ADVERTISER, 

Let  us  -whisper 

in  your  ear  I 


how  to  advertise. 
When  to  Advertise. 
Where  to  Advertise. 
and  do  it  cheaply. 

These  are  the  problems  we  solve. 

Responsible  Advertisers  can  have  free  any  of  the  following: 
"Advertising  Tracts,"  Nos.  i  to  6. — "One  Minute  Talks  to  Ad- 
vertisers," Nos.  i  to  4. — "Effective  Advertising." — "Advertising 
Agents,  the  True  and  False." — "Do  you  Catch  the  Idea?" — 
"Whisperings."— "Just  Think  it  Over."— "Hello!  Hello!"— 
"The  Century  Plant." — "Magazine  Advertising." 

HERBERT  BOOTH  KING  &  BROTHER, 

Of  the  "  Big  Six  "  Advertising  Agents, 

20^    Broadway,    New-York. 


F. 


N    OUTFITS, 

For  Hotels,  Restaurants  and 
Boarding  Houses. 

We  are  designers  and  manufac- 
turers of  a  complete  line  of  Hotel 
Ranges,  Baking  Ovens,  Steam 
Tables,  etc. ,  and  can  makeestimates 
for  any  part  of  the  country.  Our 
outfits  have  been  placed  in  the 
Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augus- 
tine, Florida;  the  Algonquin  Club, 
Boston,  Mass.,  and  in  the  leading 
Hotels,  Clubs  and  Institutions  of 
the  country. 

Correspondence  solicited. 
Catalogues  sent  on  application. 
^ISTTHOlSrY    STOVE    CO. 
successors  to 
Sort    and   E.  "Wlaitely   <fc 


SMITH    &c 


Morandi    <fe 

48  to  54  Union  Street,  Boston. 


Co. 


A  complete  garment  worn  under 
the  corset  or  flannels,  protecting 
,  the  clothing  from  perspiration. 
Cheaper  than  dress  shields,  one 
pair  doing  the  work  of  six. 
Misses' bust  measure,  28-33,$  .80 

Ladies 34-39,    1.00 

M.  DEWEY,  Mnfr.,1397  W.  Monroe  St.,  Chicago.?  AGENTS 
Send  Money  by  P.  O.  order.     Catalogue  Free.  S       WANTED. 

SELECT    EUROPEAN    TOURS. 

ENGLAND  ANDTHE  CONTINENT. 

For  programmes,  address  MORSTON  REAM, 

142  West  36th  Street. 


SOUND  DISCS 


are  guaranteed  to  help  a 
larger  per  cent,  of  cases 
than  all  similar  devices 
combined.  The  same  to  the  Ears  as  glasses  are  to  the 
eyes.  Positively  invisible.  Worn  months  without 
removal.     H.  A.  WALES,  Bridgeport,  Conn. 


J    A  WEDDING  OUTFIT  for  $200    | 


3 


I 


A  Valuable  Article  in  the  MAY  Number  of 


THE 


INDIES 

ToUipis 

W    Other  Features  to  be  Found 


Home 


••• 


in  this  Issue  are 


Me. 

1 


y\  THE  VALUE  OF  ETIQUETTE — What  her  laws  mean  when  properly  observed.  iy~ 
^i  THE  STORY  OF  A  SOCIETY  GIRL.     BEHAVIOR  AT  CHURCH.  ^ 

THE  USE  OF  SLANG.  ]&L 

WHAT  TO  TEACH  DAUGHTERS.  Lj* 


A' 
I 

^j        Noted  writers  on  Educational  Matters,  Manners,  Moral   Teachings  L£fL 
~sj  and  Physical  Training  for  growing  daughters.  V^ 

^*        Advice  by  the  most  eminent   Physicians    and   Specialists   of  New  &£•> 


I 

I 

Me 

Me. 

Me. 
Me. 

% 


DAINTY  LULLABY  POEMS— Illustrated  by  Famous  Artists. 


^ 
£ 

4 


^ 


York,  Boston  and  Philadelphia. 


Mr.  Edward  W.  Bok,  Editor. 


Me 

Me 


*    Thk  Ladies'  Home  Journal  has  a  paid  for  circulation  of  nearly  HALF  A  MILLION  It 


copies  each  issue,  a  larger  circulation  than  any  other  periodical  in  the  world. 


!£ 


*§i  On  the  News  Stands,  io  Cents  per  Copy,       Subscription  $i.oo  per  Year.  ]£*. 

^V  CURTIS  PUBLISHING  COMPANY,   PHILADELPHIA,  PA.  ]jT 


THE    MERCANTILE    SPELLER. 

CONTAINING    THE     CORRECT    WAYS    OF 
SPELLING    WORDS    USED    IN    CORRESPONDENCE, 

And.  their  Prefixes  and.  Suffixes,  for  Bankers,  Merchants,  Lawyers,  Authors,  Type  -Writers,  etc. 

PREFACE. — The  great  Dictionaries  leave  little  to  be  desired,  when  it  is  convenient  to  employ  them.  The  busy  man,  though,  does 
not  care  to  spend  the  time  turning  over  their  pages  when  he  simply  desires  to  know  the  spelling  of  a  word.  He  simply  wants  to  know  how 
a  word  is  spelled,  and  to  ascertain  it  in  as  short  a  time  as  possible. 

This  little  work  answers  this  purpose  more  thoroughly  than  any  of  the  Dictionaries. 
AN  APPENDIX  contains  words  in  groups,  that  are  pronounced  somewhat  alike,  but  have  different  meanings  and  spellings.     To 
these  words  a  short  definition  has  been  given. 

A  sample  page  will  be  forwarded  upon  application. 

Bound  in  Cloth  and  Handsomely  Indexed,  $2.50    |    Bound  in  Leather  and  Indexed  as  above,  $3.00 

Delivered  anywhere  in  the  United  States  upon  receipt  of  price.  ,^03 

E.  BLUNT,  Publisher,  Times  Building,  New-York  City. 


Mr.  W.  W.  Bradley,  expert  in  handwriting,  forged  signatures, 
anonymous  letters,  etc.,  will  send  full  delineation  of  character  on 
receipt  of  letter  of  twenty  lines  or  more,  in  ink,  on  unruled  paper, 
in  ordinary,  natural  hand  of  writer.  Do  not  copy  nor  quote.  Fee, 
one  dollar  (two  dollars,  if  description  is  given  of  signs  upon  which 
judgment  is  based).  Lessons  in  graphology,  by  mail,  ten  dollars 
for  twelve  lessons.     Address 

W.  W.  BRADLEY,  Graphologist, 

Care  MICHIGAN  TRUST  CO.  GRAND  RAPIDS,  MICH. 


BANK  &  OFFICE    FITTINGS 

Fine  Brass  Work. 

Special  designs  on 

application. 

ANDREWS  MFG.  COMPANY 

76  Fifth  Ave.,  N.  Y.  City. 

A.  H.  ANDREWS  &  CO. 

195  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago. 


Typewriter  Headquarters. 


—  Unprejudiced  authority  on  Writing  Machines 
*-*  m.  Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers,  and  largest  M  ^C  * ' 
O  %  handlers  of  all  makes,  at  lowest  prices,  in  M  £j 
the  world.    Two  entire  floors  devoted  * 
to  selling,  renting  and  exchanging 

TYPEWRITERS 

Q  ^  of  all  descriptions.  Instruments 
^L  shipped  with  privilege  of  ex- 
^^^  amination.        Exchanging 
O^    O  .^.  a  specialty.    Three  large 


4/ 
V 

Of    o 
T 


*^\  >^^iflustrated_ catalogues  J  ^  /    tv 


M 


free.         Typewriter 
Supplies,   Attach- 
ments and  Nov- 
elties   for  all 
machines. 
Do  not 
fail  to 
,  write 
us 


S 


HORTHAND  Thoroughly  Taught 
\*PW\  1  nftllW  BY  MAIL  or  personally. 
ITUATIONS  PROCURED  all  pupils  when  competent. 
TENOGRAPHERS     furnished     business    men    without 

charge  for  my  services.     Correspondence  solicited. 
Send  for  circ's  to  W.  G.  CHAFFEE,  Oswego,  N.  Y. 


„       EUROPE    AND    THE    ORIENT.      , 

For  particulars  of  a  small  private  party  leaving  Oct.  i8th  for  a 
seven  months'  tour,  including  Spain,  the  Riviera,  Italy,  the  Nile, 
by  private  "Dahabeah,"  Palestin'e,  Greece,  Constantinople,  etc., 
Address  TRAVEL,  940  Broadway,  New-York. 


PORTABLE    LETTER    COPYING    PRESS. 


IT  CAN  BE  USED 


«•• 


#- 


HOME 


-<§>- 


-#- 


■#- 


-^> 


AT  YOUR  WHEN  YOU  FOR 

OFFICE  TRAVEL  Letters 

<$> ■# 


•<$>■ 


■♦ 


FOR 

DIAGRAMS 
AND  PLANS 


# 


FACT    FOR    COPYING    ANY   WRITING. 

No  special  inks  required.  Adapted  as  well  for  occasional  use  at 
home  as  for  constant  use  at  office.  Only  portable  press  on  the  market 
that  is  a  complete  success.  Satisfactory  results  guaranteed  or  money 
promptly  refunded.  Money,  time  and  temper  saved  by  using  the 
"  Portable."  Weight,  2  lbs.;  size,  n  in.  long,  3  in.  diameter.  Nickeled 
operation.  steel.     Price  for  press  and  metal  pan  for  holding  damp  paper,  $5.00, 

delivered  free  anywhere  in  United    States,   Mexico  or  Canada.       For 
specimens  of  work  and  catalogue  of  fine  line  of  cabinets  AGENTS   "WANTED.         Address 

PORTABLE  COPYING   PRESS  CO.  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 

BROUN,  GREEN  &  ADAMS,  C.  E.  DENNISON,        or         LEO.  E.  ALEXANDER  &  CO. 

40  Beaver  St.  New- York.  Rochester,  N.  Y.  218  Sansome  St.  San  Francisco. 


THE  ADDER 

It  will  add  two  columns  of  figures  with  absolute  accuracy. 

It  gives  instantaneous  results,  and  makes  no  mistakes. 

It  saves  a?i  immense  amount  of  time. 

It  prevents  brain  exhaustion. 

The  following  is  one  of  many  high  indorsements  : 


Is  a  most  re- 
markable   in 
vention. 


United  States  Signal  Office,  Washington. 
"  Several  '  Webb  Adders '  have  been  in  constant  use  in  this  office,  and  have 
recommended  themselves  by  their  accuracy  and  rapidity.' 

Gen.  A.  W.  Greely,  Chief  Signal  Officer. 

Any  man  <?r  •woman  who  has  much  to  do  with  fgures  cannot  afford  to  be  without  one. 
Adder"  saves  both  time  and  money. 

Price,  $7.00.     Sent  by  mail  (at  customer's  risk)  on  receipt  of  price  and  15  cents  postage;   or  by  express  (at  customer's  charge). 
Send  for  a  circular,  with  full-size  cut,  description  and  testimonials  from  users  in  all  parts  of  the  country. 

WEBB'S  ADDER  CO.  58  Cedar  St.  New-York. 


$15.50 

Packed  and  Delivered  on  Cars. 

No.  42. 

_   FLATTOP  DESK. 

Made  in  Walnut,  Cherry  or  Oak.     Size,  54x33^  inches.     Two  slides  above  drawers. 
Automatic   Lock.       Cloth  or  Polished  Veneer  Top.       First-class  in  every  particular. 

SEND    FOR    DESK    CATALOGUE. 

WM.  L.  ELDER,  43  &  45  South  Meridian  Street,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 


AIR    ]BItXJ2S3E3C. 

Applies  liquid  color  by  a  'jet  of  air. 
Gold,  silver  and  special  medals  of  Frank- 
lin and  American  Institutes.  Saves  75 
per  cent,  of  time  in  shading  technical 
drawings. 

The  crayon,  ink  or  water-color  portrait 

artist  finds  his  labor  lessened,  his  pictures  improved  and  his  profits 

increased  by  using  the  Air  Brush.     Write  for  illustrated  pamphlet. 

It  tells  how  to  earn  a  living. 

AIR  BRUSH  MANUFACTURING  CO.  58  Nassau  St.  Rockford,  111. 


THE  GEM 
PENGIL  SHARPENER. 

For  Schools  and  Offices. 
Sharpens  both  Lead  and  Slate  Pencils. 

GO  ULD&  COOK,  Manufacturers 
Leominster,  Mass. 

Send,  for  Circular. 


KANE'S 

Roll-Top 
DESKS. 

No.  84. 

NOTHING  BETTEE 

THE  PEIOE  AN 
ENCOUEAG-EMENT 

Send  Postal  for 
'♦Desk"  Catalogue. 


Thos.  Kane  &  Go. 

CHICAGO,  JXL. 


CALIGRAPH    NEW  SPECIAL  No.  3 


GREATEST    SPEED! 
BEST    FOR    MANIFOLDING. 

100,000   Daily   Users. 


We  are  now  prepared  to  furnish  the  New 
Special  No.  3,  having  78  characters,  fitted 
with  an  extra  platen  for  manifolding  (platen 
can  be  changed  in  two  minutes). 

A  new  ribbon  movement  carrying  the  rib- 
bon back  and  forth  as  well  as  across  the  disk. 

This  special  machine,  in  quality  of  material 
and  fineness  of  workmanship,  excels  anything 
ever  before  placed  on  the  market,  and  has 
been  brought  out  to  meet  the  demands  of 
those  requiring  the  best  that  can  be  pro- 
duced. 

Single   Case,  No.   I,       -     -       $70.00 

Double   Case,  "     2,     -     -     -      85.00 

New  Special,  "3.  -     -  100.00 


The    AMERICAN    WRITING     MACHINE    CO. 

HARTFORD,  CONN. 

BRANCH   OFFICES:  237   Broadway,   New-York.  14  West  4th  Street,  Cincinnati,  0. 

1003  Arch  Street,   Philadelphia. 

JOHNSTON'S    IMPROVED    INK    ERASER. 

Made  of  steel.     Erasing 
isurface  is  rounded  off  and 
dressed  as  files  are,  the  cut, 
being    very    sharp 
id  uniform.     Handy, 
durable,  does  not  dig 
into  the  paper;  makes  a  smooth.clean 
erasure.   Best  Eraser  in  the  market., 
Ask  your  stationer,  or  send  25  cts.  stamps  to 

C.  W,  JOHNSTON,  735  W.  Main  St.,  Louisville,  Ky. 


DIXON'S 


PENCILS 


AMERICAN 

GRAPHITE 

Are  unequaled  for  smooth,  tough  leads- 

If  your  stationer  does  not  keep  them,  mention  THE  CENTURY  Magazine, 
and  send  16  cents  in  stamps  to  the  Joseph  Dixon  Crucible  Co.,  of  Jersey 
City,  N.  J.,  for  samples  worth  double  the  money.     It  is  worth  your  trouble. 


3VCI3VC3E30C3m.jaL3P3Ea: 

Patented  by  Thos.  A.  Edison. 
Makes  3,000  copies  of  one  original  writing,  Draw- 
ing,   Music,    etc.       1,500    copies    of   one    original 
Typewriter  Letter.    Recommended  by  over  &0,000 
users.     Send  for  circular  and  sample  of  work. 

A.   B.   DICK    COMPANY, 

152  - 154  Lake  Street,  CHICAGO.         32  Liberty  Street,  NEW  YORK. 


TYPE-WRITERS! 


CALIGRAPHS, 
HAMMONDS, 


New  or  Second-Hand,  any  make,  bought,  sold  and 
exchanged.  Good  machines  at  half  first  cost.  Get 
our  prices  before  buying.  Everything  guaranteed. 
Machines  rented  anywhere.  Largest  stock  in  America. 
Ribbons,  carbon,  linen  papers,  etc.  New  and  enlarged 
catalogue  describing  all  machines,  including  new 
makes,  now  ready.  Only  complete  catalogue  of  the 
kind  published. 


Rln  otChTe?s1S,MATI0HAL  TYPE-WRITER  EXCHANGE,  ••iAagaKgSKr1' 


THE  LARGEST  ORDER  THE 
U.  S.  GOVERNMENT 

Ever  placed  for  Writing  Machines  was  for  the 

TYPE 
WRITER 


"National 


j? 


$60.00 


Irrespective  of  price,  the  BEST  and  MOST  COMPLETE 
Writing  Machine  made. 

Price,  including    <^^^\    /N/"\ 
I  Portable  Office  Case,  <J>  O  \J  .  \J  \J 
EVERY  MACHINE  GUARANTEED. 

^tSKSSSr1  NATIONAL  TYPE  WRITER  CO. 

715,  717  &,  719  Arch  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  U.  S.  A. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Pamphlet,  giving  fac-simile  of  keyboard. 


NEW  MODEL  HALL  TYPEWRITER. 


THE  BEST  STANDARD  TYPEWRITER  IN  THE  WORLD. 

Cheap,  Portable,  No   Ink   Ribbon,   Interchangeable   Type  in  all 

Languages,  Easiest  to  learn  and  rapid  as  any. 

Agents  wanted  everywhere. 

WARRANTED  AS  REPRESENTED.    Address 

National   Typewriter   Co. 

10  Temple  Place,  Boston,  Mass.        P.  0.  Box  5159. 

Send  for  Catalogue  and  Specimens  of  Work. 


(S^rt@TOR9 


HARA^^I; 


Speed.  o\mmm  3^Price  $'! 

THE  TlLTON  M'Ffi  CO.  II5PurchaseStB0ST0N. 


•  • 


HAMMOND 


99 


TYPEWRITER. 

Awarded  the  First  Prize, 

COLD   MEDAL, 

Paris  Exposition,  1889. 
At  a  grand  concours  of  typewriters  in  Paris,  called   by  several 
prominent  scientists  of  France  at  Mayoralty  Hall,  Second  Arron- 
dissement,  the  HAMMOND  made  a  record  of  170  words  per 
minute,  but  the  others,  although  present,  declined  to  compete. 

THE  SPEED  OF  THE  "HAMMOND," 

measured  not  in  words  but  in  correct  finger  movements,  is  15  per 
cent,  greater  than  that  of  any  other  typewriter. 

THE    HAMMOND    TYPEWRITER    CO. 
447-449  East  52d  St.  N.Y. 


77  Nassau  St.,  New  York. 
198  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago. 
209  N.  8th  St.,  St.  Louis. 


116  S.  6th  St.,  Philadelphia. 
300  "Washington  St.,  Boston. 
42  W.  4th  St.,  Cincinnati. 


"Improvement  the  Order  of  the  Age." 

FOR  15  YEARS 

All  Users  of 

have  felt  the  necessity  of  their  being  improved. 
You  will  find  in 

THE  SMITH  PREMIER  TYPEWRITER 

THE   LATEST  AND  BEST. 

ALL  THE  Essential  Features  greatly  perfected  and  Important  Improvements. 

THE  BEST  inventive  Talent  and  Mechanical  Skill  have  been  employed  to 
produce  a  Machine  of  Greater  Durability,  Excellence  of  Design  and  Special 
Features. 

WE  CLAIM,  and  inspection  and  trial  prove  it,  The  Most  Durable  in 
Alignment,  Easiest  Running  and  Most  Silent. 

All  Type  Cleaned  in  10  Seconds  without  Soiling  Hands.        Send  for  Catalogue. 

THE  SMITH  PREMIER  TYPEWRITER  CO.  Syracuse,  N.Y.,  U.  S.  A. 


Remington 
Standard  Typewriter. 

For  Fifteen  Years  the  Standard, 
and  the  Leader  in  Improvements. 


The  latest 

and  highest 

achievement  of 

inventive  and 
mechanical  skill. 


Wyckoff, 

Seamans 
and  Benedict, 

New-York. 


THE   CRANDALL 


Model  Type-Writer. 

Price,  $75.00. 

INSTANTLY  CHANGEABLE  TYPE. 

WRITING  ALWAYS  IN  SIGHT. 

PERFECT  &,  PERMANENT  ALIGNMENT. 

Send  for  catalogue  and  samples  of  work.    Address 

Crandall  Type-Writer  Co, 

Manufacturers,  GROTON,  N.  Y. 
New-York  Office,  353  Broadway. 
Chicago  «         54  t,a  Salle  St. 


'No  Instruction   Needed," 

THE    ONLY    PRACTICAL 

LOW-PRICED 


TYPEWRITER. 

FIRST-CLASS,  RAPID,  DURABLE. 

World         d»4  fz  Writes 


Typewriter 


77  Characters. 


Catalogue  free.     Address  Typewriter  Depart.,  Pope  Mfg.  Co. 

Boston,  New-York,  Chicago. 


<fc      4^     Hundred  Dollar  Machines. 


OES  worh  equal  to  the  One 


*\*       <$*     A        What  YOU  want  to  know  is  how,  when, 
<        ^      and  where  to  get  the  best  returns  from  your 
^j^      vO      investment  in  a  Typewriter? 

*■  <^ 

j£y      We  solve  the  problem  for  you  in  the  MERRITT.      A 
Simple,  Compact  Machine  within  the  means  of  all. 


This  is  exact  copy  of  the  MERRITT »S  work.  It  is 
equal  to  that  of  any  High  Priced  Typewriter.  Re- 
lieves fatigue  from  steady  use  of  pen.  Improves 
spelling  and  punctuation.  Interests  and  instructs 
children.  The  entire  correspondence  of  a  business 
house  can  be  done  with  it.  Learned  in  a  half  hour 
from  directions.  Prints  Capitals,  small  letters, 
figures  and  characters,  78  in  all.  Price  $15  com- 
plete. 

Write  for  Circulars,  Voluntary  Testimonials  and  sworn-to  Speed  Test  of  GO  words  a  minute. 


AGENTS  &  CANVASSERS  IN  ALL  CITIES  &  COUNTRIES  WANTED. 

LYON  MANUFACTURING  CO., 

59  FIFTH  AVE.,  NEW  YORK  CITY. 

soxjIe:   -a.o-estt's   for   the    -world. 


May,  '90. 


MORE    SOLD   THAN  ALL    OTHER   MAKES   COMBINED. 

The  Paul  E.  Wirt  Fountain  Pen, 

Bloomsburg,  Pa. 


350,000  in  use. 
Positively  The  Leading  Pen. 


"An  absolutely  perfect  reservoir  pen,  a  pen  compared  with  which  all  other  pens  are  frank  failures." 
Ask  your  dealer  or  send  for  catalogue.  Mention  The  Century.  Mark  Twain. 


The  "Old  Reliable." 


I  have  been  using 

Waterman's 

Ideal  Fountain  Pen 

For  some  years  in  stenographic  court  reporting, 
and  am  greatly  attached  to  it.  It  is  most  excel- 
lent, both  as  to  the  flow  of  ink  and  the  quality  of 
the  pen. — D.  C.  McEwen,  Court  Reporter, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


A  pen  with  which  a  stenographer  writes  as  fast 
as  a  man  talks  is  "  reliable  "  for  any  writer. 

You  will  not  lose  anything1  in  giving  it  a  trial, 

for  if  it  is  not  entirely  satisfactory  it  can  be 

returned,  and  your  money  will  be  refunded. 

See  advertisements  in  previous  numbers. 
Send  for  illustrated    price-list  with  testimonials. 
Agents  Wanted.     Mention  The  Century. 

L.  E.  "Waterman  Co. 
(4 '9o.)  155  Broadway,  New-York. 

Ideal  Pocket,  for  pens  and  pencils.      Price  of  pocket, 
nickel,  15  cents;  with  leather  cover,  30  cents. 


The 


OUT  OF 
PAPER? 


Askyour^  BOSTON   LINEN, 
StationerV        BOSTON    BOND 
for     )      and  BUNKER  HILL. 

These  papers  have  gained  an  unprecedented  reputa- 
tion in  every  State  and  Territory  in  the  Union  on  account 
of  their  superior  quality  and  reasonable  price.  If  your 
stationer  does  not  keep  them,  do  not  accept  any  others, 
but  send  us  your  name  and  address  with  6  cents  in 
stamps  (to  pay  postage,  etc.),  and  we  will  forward  you 
our  complete  samples  of  writing  papers  representing 
in  the  various  styles  and  sizes  over  300  varieties  which 
we  sell  by  the  pound. 

Samuel  Ward  Company 

(INCORPORATED), 

Paper  Merchants,  Stationers  and  Engravers, 

49  &  51  FRANKLIN  ST.  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Proprietors  C  The  "  Boston  "  Type-writer   Papers,   and 
of         \  "Ward's  Diamond  Steel"  Pens. 


OUR  FOUNTAIN  PEN  is  made  with  a  spiral  feed,  which  prevents  it  from  blotting 
when  nearly  empty,  and  it  is  the  only  one  made  that  does  not  blot* 

MONEY  REFUNDED  IF  NOT  SATISFACTORY.  OUR  GUARANTEE  TO  THIS  EFFECT  SENT  WITH  EACH  PEN, 
Established  1837.      AoA     L.    Oill!  MAIN  O     oUlNb,      NEW-YORK, U.S. A. 


Mention  THE  CENTURY. 


Chas.  F.Dawson,  Montreal. 


Agents  Wanted. 


I 


SEND   you  by  mail  a  photograph  of  my  little  girl,  who  will  be 
six  years  old  in  December,  and  is 

A  Mellin's  Food  Child 


>>'! 


v> . 


;•  V  ■   ■    ,,,, #,»>  :  »«'♦'  ,<V'  if     :^-: '  ■ 


X 


'.  ._..  ::i 


every  inch  of  her.  I  tried  several  other  Foods,  none  of  which 
agreed  with  her  ;  but  with  Mellin's  there  was  improvement  from 
the  start. 


JNO.   G.   HOGEBOOM,  Saginaw,  Mich. 


To 


The  Doliber-Goodale  Co. 

Boston,  Mass. 


An  ocea?i  delicacy  with  a  sea-breeze  freshness. 

McMENAMIN  &  CO'S 

DEVILED  CRABS. 

In  their  natural  shells,  served  at  least  once  a 

week,  they  make  a  grateful  change  in 

the  family  diet. 

A  royal  supper  dish. 
A  delicious  entree. 

Can  be  served,  hot  or  cold. 

Ask  your  Grocer  all  about  them. 

McMENAMIN  &  CO.  Hampton,  Va. 


fUtU  WEIGHT 
PURE 


45?T  PERFECT  MADE 


Its  superior  excellence  proven  in  millions  of  homes 
for  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  century.  It  is  used  by  the 
United  States  Government.  Indorsed  by  the  heads  of 
the  Great  Universities  as  the  Strongest,  Purest  and 
most  Healthful.  Dr.  Price's  Cream  Baking  Powder 
does  not  contain  Ammonia,  lime  or  Alum.  Sold  only 
in  Cans.     PRICE   BAKING   POWDER   CO. 

NEW-YORK.       CHICAGO.        SAN  FRANCISCO.        ST.  LOUIS. 


TheT.  A.  Snider  Preserve  Co.,  Cincinnati. 
O.,  whose  Tomato  Catsup  has  gained  an  inter- 
national reputation,  put  up  also  Tomato  Soup, 
This  is  made  of  the  pulp  of  speciall  v  selected 
tomatoes,  skillfully  combined  with  other  in- 
gredients of  the  best  quality,  the  whole  form- 
ng  a  perfectly  seasoned,  rich  and  wholesome 
dish,  suited  to  either  a  simple  luncheon  or  a 
most  elaborate  dinner. 

It  needs  to  he  heated  only  before  serving. 

Confident  that  a  trial  of  this  Tomato  Soup  will 
convince  ladies  and  g-entlemen  of  its  excellence 
and  superiority,  a  sample  can  will  be  sent  free  to 
any  address  on  receipt  of  six  cents  in  stamps,  by 

THE  T.  A.  SNIDER  PRESERVE  CO. 
Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


REASONS  WHY 

SHOULD  BE  PREFERRED 
TO  ALL  OTHERS. 


Of  its  perfect  digestibility,  per- 
fect limpidity. 

This  perfect  oil  costs  consumers 
no  more  than  the  poorer  qualities 
abounding  in  the  stores. 

It  is  unquestionably 


It  is 


PETER  MOLLER'S  COD  LIVER  OIL 

BECAUSE — It  is  genuine-pure,  just  as  it  existed  in  the 
hepatic  cells  of  the  living  fish,  not  depleted  of  its  natural  virtues 
by  any  process  of  refining,  nor  weakened  by  being 

made  into  an  emulsion 
with  an  equal  quantity 
of  water,  glycerine, 
etc. ,  which  latter  d  evice 
makes  water  bring  the 
price  of  oil. 

In  taste  and  smell  it  is  not 
offensive,  but  instead  sweet 
and  agreeable. 

Its  administration  is  always 
ME=aJu*lirssi  followed  by  satisfactory  results. 

It  is  more  easily  assimilated  than  other  oils. 
It  is  more  nutritious  than  other  oils, 
readily  obtainable  ;    all  well-stocked  drug  stores  have  it. 
the  purest  and  best  COD  LIVER  OIL.  IN  THE  WORLD. 


W.  H.  SCHIEFFELIN  &  CO.  New-York,  Sole  Agents  for  U.  S.  and  Canada. 


The  Truth 

about  tea : 

Let  us  send  you  (free  of  course)  enough  for  a  week  of  such  tea 
as  tells  its  own  tale. 

You  shall  be  glad  to  make  the  acquaintance  of  it ;  the  American 
people  shall  be. 

You  shall  know  that  a  teaspoonful  of  real  tea  has  more  of  tea- 
taste  and  tea-cheer,  tea-goodness  and  strength,  than  a  tablespoonful 
of  such  as  you  get  at  your  grocer's. 

You  shall  know  the  luxury  and  economy  of  it. 

Our  coffee  is  for  the  rich  ;  our  tea  is  for  all. 


Will  you  let  us  tell  you  the  truth  about  your  making  of  tea  ? 

Your  own  tea  will  be  better  and  go  as  far,  if  you  make  it  right. 
We  shall  send  you  a  primer  how  to  steep  it. 

"  Strange !  '  you  say.  What  is  strange  is  the  fact  that  the 
brightest  of  nations  buys  the  worst  tea  in  the  world  and  makes  it 
still  worse  in  steeping  it 


Your  address  is  all  we  need. 

The  Ceylon  Planters'  American 
Tea  Company,  Limited. 

Broadway  and  Twenty-Second  street,  New -York. 


Green  Turtle,  Terrapin,  Chicken,  Consomme',  Mulligatawny,  Mock  Turtle, 

Ox-Tail,   Tomato,  Chicken   Onmbo'  (Okra),   French   Bouillon,  Julienne,  Pea, 

Printanier,  Mutton  Broth,  Vegetable,  Beef,  Puree  of  Game,  Pearl  Tapioca. 

Send  us  14  cents  to  Jielp  pay  postage,  and  receive,  free  of  charge,  a  sample  can,  your  choice. 

Mention  The  Century. 

Require  only  to  be  heated,  and  are  then  ready  to  serve. 
Owing  to  their  really  superior  quality,  these  soups,  in  three  years'  time, 

have  superseded  all  other  brands. 

We  recommend  also  our  Game  Chicken  Pates  which  will  be  found  invaluable  for  Lunch,  Picnic  and  Traveling  Parties. 

Sample  can,  sent  on  receipt  of  25c.  in  stamps. 

FRANCO-AMERICAN    FOOD    CO. 

Sold  by  all  leading  grocers,  42  "West  Broadway,  New-York. 


u 


DO  NOT  STAMMER 


JJ 


OFFICE  OF  POSTMASTER-GENERAL, 

Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Sir:  I  know  Mr.  Edwin  S.  Johnston,  of  whom  you  write, 
and  have  knowledge  of  the  fact  that  he  has  produced  wonderful 
cures  of  stammering.         Yours  most  truly, 

To  John  Wanamaker. 

Thos.  H.  Urquhart,  M.  D. 

Hastings,  Neb. 

"CEREAL  FOODS," 

with  illustrations  of  "Hiawatha's  Fasting," 
and  the  "  Cerealine  Cook- Book,"  containing 
many  recipes  for  preparing  "The  Food  of 
Foods,"  will  be  sentfree  to  any  one  who  will 
mention  where  this  advertisement  was  seen, 
and  inclose  a  two-cent  stamp  for  postage. 

THE  CEREALINE  MFG.  CO. 
Columbus,  Ind. 

Cowdrey's    Deviled 


Ham 

is  made  from 
Sugar  Cured 
Whole  Hams 
and  the  Pur- 
est of  Spices. 

The  Quality 
is  Unexcelled 


DURKEE'S 


GAUNTLET    BRAND 

SErtCTgpjQgg 
*  MUSTARD. 

SOLD  ONLY  IN  FULL-WEIGHT  SEALED  PACKAGES. 

Guaranteed  absolutely  pure,  and  warranted  to  excel 
all  others  in  strength,  richness,  flavor  and  cleanliness. 


"THE    PERFECTION    OF    OLIVE    OIL.1 


RAE'S  LUCCA  OIL 


FINEST 


SUBLIME. 


Established 
1836. 


Guaranteed  Genuine  and  Pure  Olive  by 

S.  RAE  &  CO. 


LEGHORN, 
TUSCANY,  ITALY. 


Largest  Exporters  of  Finest  Lucca  Oil  to  England  for  forty  years  past. — 
See  British  Consular  Reports,  No.  6,  1885,  p.  318. 

GOLD  MEDAL,  PARIS  EXPOSITION,  1889. 

The  Italian  State  Department  of  Agriculture  says  :  "  The  Olive  Oils  of  Lucca,  Calci,  and  Buti, 
in  Tuscany,  are  deemed  the  FINEST  in  the  WORLD." — Relazione  intorno  alle  Condizioni  dell' 
Agricoltura,  Vol.  I.,p.  587.  

Wholesale  Agents  and  Importers  : 

FRANCIS  H.  LEGGETT  &  CO.  West  B'dway,  Franklin  and  Varick  Sts.,  New- York,  N.  Y. 
JAMES  A.  HAYES  &  CO.  9  and  11  Commercial  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 
SPRAGUE,  WARNER  &  CO.  Randolph  Street  and  Michigan  Avenue,  Chicago,  111. 

RAE'S  LUCCA  OIL  is  kept  by  most  first-class  Grocers.  If  you  find  any  difficulty  in  getting  it,  please  write 
to  the  nearest  Agent,  who  will  have  it  delivered  at  your  residence  "by  a  retail  Grocer. 

Write  to  Agents  for  copy  of  "LUCCA  OIL.  IN  SALADS  AND  COOKERY,"  by  Alice  T.  Denham, 
a  32-page  pamphlet,  giving  full  instructions  for  making  salads,  and  also  how  to  use  Olive  Oil  in  Cooking.  Please 
mention  The  Century. 


Tomato, 
Ox  Tail, 
Pea, 
Beef, 


Mock  Turtle,  Terrapin, 

Okra  or  Gumbo,  Macaroni, 

Green  Turtle,  Consomme, 

Julienne,  Soup  and  Bouilli, 


Vermicelli,   Chicken,  Mullagatawny. 

RICH  and  PERFECTLY  SEASONED. 

JRequire   only  to  be  heated,  and  I  Prepared  with  great  care  from  I  Have  enjoyed  the  highest  repute 
are  then  ready  to  serve.         |        only  the  best  materials.        |      tion  for  more  than  32  years. 


I  Send  us  20  cents,  to  help  pay  express,  and  receive,  prepaid,  two  s;mi- 

I  EST    FREE        pl°   cans    of  these    Soups,  your   choice. 
— 1  J.  II.  W.  HUCKINS   &   CO. 

SOLD  BY  ALL  LEADING  GROCERS  Sole  Manufacturers,  Boston,  Mass. 


ONEITA 

The  water  of  this  Spring  is  highly  recommended  by  the  physicians  of  Utica,  where  it  is  located, 
who  use  it  largely  in  their  practice  with  the  most  beneficial  results  in  all  Kidney  and  Liver  troubles, 
Dyspepsia,  Rheumatism,  Gout,  etc.  It  is  the  perfection  of  table  waters,  being  pure,  sparkling  and 
delicious. 

Send  for  pamphlet  with  analysis  of  C.  F.  Chandler,  Ph.  D. 

ONEITA    SPRING    CO. 

UTICA,  N.  Y. 

NO  DINNER 

Is  Complete  without  Soup, 

Cold 

Medal, 


Paris, 


1889. 


The  best  and  most  economical  "stock"  for  Soup  is 

Armour's  Beef  Extract, 

which,  unlike  all  other  meat  extracts,  retains  so  much  nutrition 
that  no  soup-bone  or  other  stock  is  necessary  when  Armour's 
Extr;ictis  used. 

With  one  small  turnip,  one  carrot,  a  stick  of  celery,  a  sprig 
of  parsley,  1^  to  2  quarts  of  water  and  one  teaspoonful  Ar- 
mour's Extract,  you  can  make  delicious  soup  for  six  persons 
at  a  total  costof  ten  cents.  Use  Armour's  Extract  for  Bouillon 
or  Beef  Tea.  Superior  to  all  brands  in  richness  and  delicacy  of 
flavor. 

Ask  your  Druggist  or  Grocer  for 

Armour's  Beef  Extract, 

or  send  SO  Cents  for  2  oz.  jar  to 

ARMOUR  &  CO.,  Chicago. 


CHANCE    FOR    ALL 

To  Enjoy   a  Cup   of  Perfect  Tea. 

A  trial  order  of  2%  pounds  of  Fine  Tea, 
either  Oolong,  Japan,  Imperial,  Gunpowder,  Young 
Hyson,  Mixed,  English  Breakfast  or  Sun  Sun  Chop, 
sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  $2.00.  Be  particular 
and  state  what  kind  of  Tea  you  want.  Greatest 
inducement  ever  offered  to  get  orders  for  our 
celebrated  Teas,  Coffees  and  Baking  Powder.  For  full  particulars, 
address  THE  GREAT  AMERICAN  TEA  CO. 
P.  O.  Box  289,  New-York,  N.  Y.  31  and  33  Vesey  St. 


'$0®FFEEQr, 


% 


MBRAi 

JAVA&  MOCHA 

PFFEI 


STon 


■■■%■■«■  A  PERFECT  ART  ALBUM  CON- 
LDl  .  TAINING  24  BEAUTIFUL  PHO- 
rlirrTOGRAPHS  REPRESENTING  TEA 
I  lllakAND  COFFEE  CULTURE,  WILL 
BE  SENT  ON  RECEIPT  OF  YOUR  ADDRESS. 
CHASE  &   SANBORN, 

106BR0AD  ST.,  BOSTON. 


IS     USEO     BY    CHIIiBHEKT'S     OJEIIXjX^I^EJXr. 

Thousands  of  young  men  and  women  in  the  U.  S.  A.  owe  their  lives  and  their  health  and  their  happiness  to  Ridge's  Food,  their  daily  diet 
in  Infancy  and  Childhood  having  been  Ridge's  Food.     By  Druggists,  35  cts.  up.     WOOLRICH   &  CO.  Palmer,  Mass. 

Send  your  address  on  postal  for  valuable  pamphlet  free. 


Prevention  of 
Disease. 

Tissue 


Rules  of  Health. 


Carlsbad  Sprudel 
Salt  an  aid 
to  Digestion. 


May,  »90. 


HOW   TO   PRESERVE   AND 
ENJOY   HEALTH. 

IT  IS  EASIER  TO  PREVENT  DISEASE  THAN  TO  CURE  IT. 

To  this  end  we  must,  of  course,  know  the  conditions 
necessary  for  the  possession  and  preservation  of  health. 

Secure  a  normal  and  regular  tissue-change  throughout 
the  body.  This  tissue-metamorphosis  consists  in  con- 
stantly proceeding  waste  of  tissue  and  its  regeneration ; 
for  this  progress  the  following  rules  must  be  complied 
with  : 

Furnish  a  sufficient  supply  of  healthy  blood. 

Food  taken  must  be  wholesome  and  abundant. 

The  3.ir  inhaled  must  contain  the  required  amount  of 
oxygen. 

TiSSUe-Wa.Ste  must  be  readily  and  constantly  elimi- 
nated. 

Circulation  of  the  blood  must  be  free  and  rapid,  so 
that  tissue-waste  may  be  eliminated,  and  that  new  matter 
may  be  distributed  to  tissues  in  need  of  it. 

Activity  must  alternate  with  rest  in  order  to  maintain 
tissue-change  and  regeneration  at  the  proper  standard. 

Carlsbad  Sprudel  Salt  (a  teaspoonful  once  or  twice  a 
day  dissolved  in  a  glassful  of  water)  will  aid  tissue-change 
in  a  high  degree.  It  is  an  alterative  and  eliminative 
remedy,  which  dissolves  out  tenacious  bile,  allays  irri- 
tation; and  removes  obstruction  by  aiding  nature,  and 
not  by  sudden  and  excessive  irritation,  as  most  cathar- 
tics do.  It  is  of  great  benefit  in  temporary  and  habitual 
constipation,  liver  and  kidney  diseases,  chronic  catarrh  of 
the  stomach  and  bowels,  rheumatism  and  gout,  etc.,  and 
should  be  used  early  in  the  morning  before  breakfast.  If 
necessary  a  second  dose  can  be  taken  in  the  evening  be- 
fore retiring.  Care  must  be  exercised  to  obtain  the  Gen- 
uine Article,  which  is  imported  in  round  bottles.  Each 
bottle  comes  in  a  paper  cartoon. 

EISNER  &  MENDELSON  CO.,  Sole  Agents, 

6  Barclay  Street,  New-York. 


J 


BUFFALO  LITHIA  WATER 

Nature's  Specific  for  Acid  Dyspepsia. 

A  Person  who  Lived  for  Years  on  TEA  and  CEACKEES,  Eats  BACON,  CABBAGE  and  TTJKtflPS. 

Case  of  Capt.  James  Covington,  of  Virginia.     Statement  from  him,  indorsed  by  Dr.  J.  C.  Coleman,  a  Retired 

Surgeon  of  the  U.  S.  Navy,  of  Scottsburg,  Virginia. 


CAPT.  JAMES  COVINGTON,  OF  MT.  LAUREL,  HALIFAX  CO.,  VA. 

HIS  STATEMENT. 

"For  a  number  of  years  I  was  the  victim  of  a  most  distressing  form  of  Dyspepsia,  unable  to  eat  meat  or  vegetables,  and  lived  entirely 
upon  Tea  and  Crackers,  Bread  and  Milk,  and  other  similar  articles.  I  was  subject  to  nausea  and  vomiting  after  eating,  and 
occasionally  discharged  from  an  empty  stomach  a  yellow  acid  fluid.  I  had  become  emaciated  and  my  general  health  prostrated  to  a  degree 
which  required  me  to  abandon  all  attention  to  business  affairs.  I  had  the  assistance  of  the  best  medical  skill,  but  it  proved  unavailing,  and, 
almost  without  hope  of  relief  from  any  source,  commenced  the  use  of  BUFFALO  LITHIA  WATER,  Spring  No.  2,  the  use  of  which  for 
a  few  months  relieved  my  painful  and  long-standing  stomach  disorder,  restoring  perfect  digestion.  I  now  eat  with  impunity  Bacon, 
Cabbage  and  Turnips  and  whatever  else  I  fancy.  I  am  in  vigorous  general  health  and  actively  engaged  in  business  pursuits.  BUF- 
FALO WATER  /  believe  to  be  all  that  is  claimed  for  it." 

Dr.  John  C.  Coleman,  Surgeon  (Retired)  U.  S.  Navy,  Scottsburg,  Va. : 

"1  am  not  a  practising  Physician,  and  was  not  the  attending  Physician  of  Mr.  Covington,  but,  as  a  neighbdr,  knew  of  his  condition, 
and  suggested  the  use  of  BUFFALO  LITHIA  WATER  in  his  case,  "with  the  remarkable  results  above  stated  by  him" 

Water  in  cases  of  one  dozen  half-gallon  bottles,  Five  Dollars  per  case,  f.  o.  1>.  here. 
THOS-  F.  GGODE,  Proprietor,  Buffalo  Lithia  Springs,  Va. 


'>LONG  THE  SOUTH  SHOF^E 

OF  LjArKE  SUPERIOR." 

By  JULIAN   RALPH. 

From  the  Press  of  the  AMERICAN   BANK  NOTE  CO.,  ready  April  15. 

This  work  is  profusely  illustrated  in  wood  and  process  en- 
gravings of  scenery  along  the  south  shore  of  the  most  pictur- 
esque of  our  great  inland  seas.  Mackinac  Island,  Sault  Ste.  Marie, 
Pictured  Rocks,  Marquette,  Houghton,  Lake  Gogebic,  Apos- 
tle Islands,  Duluth  and  the  Iron  and  Copper  Mining  Regions  of 
Michigan  and  Wisconsin,  Historically  and  Descriptively  Treated 
in  Julian  Ralph's  most  graphic  style. 

Magazine  style,  100  pages,  invaluable  to  tourists  and  worthy 
a  place  in  the  best  libraries.     Send  six  cents  postage  for  copy  to 

C.  B.  HIBBARD,  G.  P.  &  T.  A.  D.  S.  S.  &  A.  Railway, 

Marquette,  Michigan. 

THE  FIDELITY  &  CASUALTY  COMPANY, 

140  to  146  Broadway,  New-York  City. 

The  Assets  of  this  Company  on  December  31 ,  1889,  were 


FIDELITY- 
CASUALTY. 


INSURANCE. 

Bonds  of  Suretyship  for  persons  in  posi- 
tions of  trust. 

—  Personal  Accident,  Plate  Glass,  Boiler, 
Employer's  and  Landlord's  Liability. 


OFFICERS: 

WM.  M.  RICHARDS,  President.  ROBERT   J.   HILLAS,  Secretary. 

GEO.  F.  SEWARD,  Vice-President.  EDWARD    L.  SHAW,  Assistant  Secretary. 

DIRECTORS: 

Geo.  S.  Coe Pres't  American  Exch.  National  Bank.  John  L.   Riker Of  J.  L.  &  D.  S.  Riker. 


J.  S.  T.  Stranahan Pres't  Atlantic  Dock  Co 

Alex.  E.  Okr David  Dows  &  Co.  N.  Y. 

G.  G.  Williams Pres't  Chemical  Nat'l  Rank. 

A.  B.  Hull Retired  Merchant. 

H.  A.  Hurlbut of  Comrs.  of  Emigration,  N.  Y. 

J.  D.  Vermilye Pres't  Merchants'  Nat'l  Bank. 


Wm.   H.   Male . .  .Pres't  Atlantic  Trust  Co. 

J.  G.   McCullough N.  Y.,  L.  E.  &  W.  Ry.  Co. 

T.  S.   Moore Of  Moore  &  Wallace. 

J.   Rogers  Maxwell Pres't  C.  R.  R.  of  N.  J. 

Wm.  M.   Richards President. 

Geo.  F.  Seward Vice-President 


Yellowstone  National  Park,  and  Return — $110.00 

(Including  all  expenses). 

Season  Opens  June  ist,  Closes  October  ist. 

The  round  trip  from  St.  Paul,  Minneapolis,  Duluth,  Tacoma  or  Portland  can  be  made  in  9  days,  spending  5^ 
days  in  the  Park,  at  an  expense,  including  rail  and  carriage  transportation  for  entire  distance  to  the  Geyser  Basins, 
returning  via  Great  Falls  and  Grand  Canon,  double  berth  in  Pullman  sleepers,  and  all  meals  on  Northern  Pacific 
Dining  Cars,  as  well  as  meals  and  lodgings  in  the  hotels  of  the  Yellowstone  Park  Association,  of  $110.00. 

Pacific  Coast,  and  Return — $80.00 

The  round  trip  rail  rate  from  St.  Paul,  Minneapolis,  Duluth  or  Ashland  to  Tacoma,  Seattle  and  Victoria,  via 
the  Northern  Pacific  Cascade  Division,  returning  via  Portland  and  the  Columbia  River  to  any  one  of  the  cities 
first  named  above,  is  but  $80.00.      Tickets  on  sale  daily. 

Sitka  and  Glacier  Bay,  Alaska,  and  Return — $175.00 

The  round  trip  from  St.  Paul  to  Sitka  and  Glacier  Bay,  Alaska,  and  return  (one  way  via  Cascade  Division,  opposite 
direction  by  the  Columbia  River),  can  be  made  in  JJO  days  at  an  expense  for  rail  and  steamer  ticket,  the  latter  including 
berth  and  meals  north  of  Tacoma,  from  which  point  all  Alaska  steamers  sail,  of  $175.00.  In  addition  to  the  iron  pro- 
pellers, Geo.  W.  Elder  and  City  of  Topeka,  which  will  sail  from  Tacoma,  May  23d,  June  22d,  July  22d,  August 
21st,  September  20th  and  May  8th,  June  7th,  July  8th,  August  6th  and  September  5th,  respectively — consuming  north 
of  Tacoma  about  23  days— the  "C^iieeiij"  3000  tons,  340  feet  long,  accommodating  250  first-class  passengers,  with 
electric  lights 
in  every  state- 
room and  all 
modern  im- 
provem  ents, 
will  sail  from 
Tacoma  on  the 
following  dates, 
making  the 
round  trip  in 
about  12  days: 
June  2d,  17th, 
July  2d,  17th, 
August  ist, 
16th  and  31st. 
Diagrams  of 
steamers  may 
be  consulted, 
reservat  ions 
made,  and 
ti  c  k  e  t  s  pur- 
chased by  call- 
ing on  any 
General  or  Dis- 
trict Passenger 
Agent  of  the 

NJORTHERN 

PACIFIC    RAILROAD;    or 

J.  M.  Hannafokd,  Traffic  Manager,  Chas.  S.  Fee,  Gen']  Passenger  Agent, 

St.  Paul,  Minnesota. 
iW  Illustrated  Boohs,  Maps  and  Time  Cards  Mailed,  Free,  to  any  address. 


Deer  Park  and  Oakland 

ON  THE  CREST  OF  THE  ALLEGHANIES, 

3000   Feet  Above  Tide-Water. 


Season  Opens  June  21,  1890. 

These  famous  mountain  resorts,  situated  at  the  summit  of 
the  Alleghanies  and  directly  upon  the  main  line  of  the  Balti- 
more and  Ohio  Railroad,  have  the  advantage  of  its  splendid 
vestibuled  express-train  service  both  east  and  west,  and  arfe 
therefore  readily  accessible  from  all  parts  of  the  country.  All 
Baltimore  and  Ohio  trains  stop  at  Deer  Park  and  Oakland 
during  the  season. 

Electric  lights  have  been  introduced  throughout  the  houses 
and  grounds ;  Turkish  and  Russian  baths  and  large  swim- 
ming pools  provided  for  ladies  and  gentlemen ;  suitable 
grounds  for  lawn  tennis ;  bowling  alleys  and  billiard-rooms 
are  here ;  fine  riding  and  driving  horses,  carriages,  mountain 
wagons,  tally-ho  coaches,  etc.,  are  kept  for  hire;  in  short, 
all  the  necessary  adjuncts  for  the  comfort,  health  or  pleasure 
of  patrons. 

Rates,  $60,  $75  and  $90  a  month,  according  to  location. 

All  communications  should  be  ad- 
dressed to  GEORGE  D.  DeSHIELDS, 
Manager  Baltimore  and  Ohio  Hotels, 
Cumberland,  Md.,  up  to  June  10;  after 
that  date,  either  Deer  Park  or  Oak- 
land, Garrett  County,  Md. 


(KAkT^PLEBLPSSOAY 


THE  NEW  AND  LEADING  ENGLISH   PERFUME. 
Over  200,000  Bottles  Sold  in  England  the  past  year 

By  THE  CROWN  PERFUMERY  CO.  of  London. 

Chief  among  the  fashionable  scents  of  the  season  is  Crab-Apple  Blossoms,  a  delicate  perfume  of  the 
highest  quality  and  fragrance. —  Court  Journal  (London). 

It  would  not  be  possible  to  conceive  a  more  delightful  perfume  than  the  Crab-Apple  BlOSSOmS,  which 
is  put  up  by  the  Crown  Perfumery  Company  of  London.      It  has  the  aroma  of  Spring  in  it,  and  one 

could  use  it  for  a  lifetime  and  never  tire  of  it. —  New -York  Observer. 

The  unusual  lasting  quality  of  this  delicious  scent  renders  it  more  economical  in  use  than  the  cheaper  perfumes. 
A  few  drops  suffice. 

Sold  by  all  Druggists  and  Dealers  in  Perfumery. 

PRICES:  1  oz.,  75c;  2  oz.,  $1.25;  3  oz.,  $1.75;  4  oz.,  $2.25. 

Send  stamps  or  post-office  order,  with  full  address  plainly  written,  for  either  of  the  above  sizes, 
to  Caswell,  Massey  &    Co.,  New-York,  or  T.  Metcalf  &    Co.,  Boston,  and  the  perfume  ordered  will 
j^  be  sent  to  any  address,  free  of  charge.      The  larger  sizes  are  the  most  advantageous. 

f®f%       Send  50  cents,  and  a  full-size  tablet  of  the  delicious 
O^T>  NEW  CRAB-APPLE  BLOSSOM  TOILET  SOAP 

will  be  sent  as  above.     At  wholesale  by  McKesson  &  Robbins,  N.  Y.,  and  all  lead- 
ing Wholesale  Druggists. 

THE  CROWN   PERFUMERY  CO.   London, 

Makers  of  the  celebrated  CROWN  LAVENDER  SALTS. 


Sterling  Silverwares. 


Our  stock  contains  the  largest  and  most 
varied  assortment  of  Solid  Silver  Wares 
ever  presented. 

At  no  time  has  it  been  so  complete  and  well 
filled  with  novelties,  from  the  inexpensive  to  the 
most  elaborate  and  artistic. 

Our  line  of  Silver  Hollow  Ware  has  been 
increased  by  entire  new  designs  in  Tea  Sets, 
Tete-a-Tete  Sets,  Sugars  and  Creams,  After- 
Dinner  Coffee  Sets,  Turkish  Coffee  Pots,  Berry 
Bowls,  Salad  Bowls  and  complete  Dinner  and 
Dessert  Services. 

In  Sterling  Silver  Spoons  and  Forks  will  be 
found  the  latest  and  most  artistic  designs.  The 
Versailles,  beyond  question,  is  the  most  elaborate 
and  skillfully  wrought  pattern  ever  produced  in 
this  country.  The  St.  Cloud,  Kings  III.,  Cluny, 
Colonial,  Medici,  are,  in  character  and  design, 
chaste,  beautifully  wrought,  graceful  in  outline, 
and  are  displayed  in  combination  chests  of  great 
variety. 

GORHAM    MFG.   CO. 

Broadway  and  19th  Street,   New- York. 


[Established  1780.] 


"LA  BELLE  CHOCOLATIERE":     W.  BAKER  &  CO.'S  Registered  Trade-Marie 

No  Chemicals  are  used  in  any  of  Walter  Baker 
&  Co!s  Chocolate  and  Cocoa  Preparations. 

These  preparations  have  stood  the  test  of  public 
approval  for  more  than  one  hundred  years,  and  are  the 
acknowledged  standard  of  purity  and  excellence. 


THE   DE  V1NNE   PRESS. 


AT  Paris,  1889,  Colgate  &  Co.  received 
an  honor  given  to  no  other  Amer- 
ican House,  namely,  a  gold  medal  for 
both  soaps  and  perfumes,  with  special 
commendation  of 

CASHMERE  BOUQUET 

The  attainment  of  the  greatest  possi- 
ble perfection  in  these  two  branches  of 
manufacture  should  make  Americans 
justly  proud  of 

COLGATE'S 

SOAPS  and  PERFUMES  , 
_ J 


A  little  higher  in  price,  but  of  unrivalled  quality. 


"OUR  constant  aim    is  to   make 

FINEST   IN    THE    WORLD." 


THEM    THE 


POWDER 

Absolutely  Pure. 

This  powder  never  varies.  A  marvel  of  purity,  strength  and 
wholesomeness.  More  economical  than  the  ordinary  kinds,  and 
cannot  be  sold  in  competition  with  the  multitude  of  low  test,  short 
weight,  alum  or  phosphate  powders.     Sold  only  in  cans. 

EOYAL  BAKING  POWDER  CO.  106  Wall  St.  New-York. 

grateful-comfortingT" 

EPPS'S 

(BREAKFAST) 

COCOA. 

"  By  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  natural 
laws  which  govern  the  operations  of  digestion 
and  nutrition,  and  by  a  careful  application  of 
the  fine  properties  of  well-selected  cocoa,  Mr. 
-  Epps  has  provided  our  breakfast  tables  with  a 
delicately  flavored  beverage  which  may  save 
us  many  heavy  doctors'  bills.  It  is  by  the 
judicious  use  of  such  articles  of  diet  that  a 
constitution  may  be  gradually  built  up  until 
strong  enough  to  resist  every  tendency  to  dis- 
ease. Hundreds  of  subtle  maladies  are  float- 
ing around  us,  ready  to  attack  wherever  there 
is  a  weak  point.  We  may  escape  many  a  fatal 
shaft  by  keeping  ourselves  well  fortified  with 
pure  blood  and  a  properly  nourished  frame." — 
The  Civil  Service  Gazette. 

MADE  SIMPLY  WITH   BOILING  WATER   OR    MILK. 


Sold  only  in  half-pound  tins,  by  grocers,  labeled 

JAMES    EPPS    &    CO. 

HOMOEOPATHIC   CHEMISTS, 
LONDON. 


MSDffRACTl 


X^PPHTWJl  iiiPileSiSorbThroat,  NEURALr 
ffl       n:V   I  \  LiJgia,Catarrh  Rheumatism  Wounds, 

s,Scalds,  Sprains,  &9  &s 


Jnfiammationsaa^Hemorrhages  u 


