^h^ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/childrensrhymescOOford 


CHILDREN'S  RHYMES,  GAMES. 
SONGS,  &  STORIES 


JiNGO-KlNG. 


DRAWN    BY    KATE    T.     HILL. 


Children's  Rhymes 
Children's  Games 

Children's  Songs 
Children's  Stories 


j\  BOOK  for  Bairtis  and  Bid  7olk 


By    ROBERT    FORD 

Author  of  ''Thistledown/'  and  Editor  of 
**  Ballads  of  Bairnhood/'  **  Vagabond  Songs 
and  Ballads  of  Scotland''  ^  ^   Etc.,  etc. 


r  "  Au/<i  rhymes  and  auld  chimes 

Y"  Gar  us  think  07i  atild  times" 

— Proverb 


PAISLEY:    ALEXANDER   GARDNER 

Publisher  to  the  late  Queen  Victoria  :  1904 


THE  IflEW  VORK 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

28418815 

ASTOR,   LENOX  AND 
TILDEN  FOUNDATIONS 
p  1944  ^ 


SECOND     EDITION 


PREFACE. 


In  offerino-  to  tlie  public  this  collection  of  Children's 
Rlivmes,     Children's     Games,     Children's     Songs,    and 
Children's  Stories — the  multitudinous  items  of  which^ 
or  such,  at  leasts  as  were  not  living  in  my  own  memory, 
have  been  gathered  with   patient  industry,  albeit  with 
much  genuine  delight,  from  wide  and  varied  sources — 
I  anticipate  for  the  work  a  hearty  and  general  welcome, 
^     alike  from  old  and  young.     It  is  the  first  really  sincere 
^     effort  to  collect  in  anything  like  ample  and  exclusive 
'^      fashion  the  iiatwal  literature  of  the  children  of  Scotland, 
>\^and  meets  what  has  long  appealed  to  me  as  decidedly 
X     a  felt  want.     The   earlier  pages  are  occupied  with  a 
|J^     commentary,    textually    illustrated,    on    the    generally 
\d      puerile,  but  regularly  fascinating  Rhymes  of  the  Xur- 
ser}',  the  vitality  and  universal  use  of  which  ha\e  been 
\     at  once  the  wonder  and  the  puzzle  of  the  ages.     This  is 
s^followed  in  turn  by  a  chapter  on  Counting-out  Rhymes, 
>j'     with  numerous  examples,  home  and  foreign  ;  which  is 
^     succeeded,    appropriately,    by    a    section    of  the   work 
^     embracing  description  of  all  the  well-known  out-door 
and  in-door  Rhyme-Games — in  each  case  the   Rhvme 
being  given,  the  action  being  portrayed.     The  remain- 
ing contents  the  title  may  be  left  to  suggest.     I  may 


6  PREFACE. 

only  add  that  the  Stories — inchiding  ^"^  Bkie  Beard/' 
and  "Jack  the  Giant  Killer/'  and  their  fellow-narratives 
— ten  in  all — are  printed  verbatim  from  the  old  chap- 
books  once  so  common  in  the  country^  but  now  so  rare 
as  to  be  almost  unobtainable. 

Essentially  a  book  about  children  and  their  jiictur- 
esque  and  innocent^  though  often  apparently  meaning- 
less, frolics,  by  the  young  in  the  land,  I  am  assured,  it 
will  be  received  with  open  arms.  From  the  "  children 
of  larger  growth  " — those  who  were  once  young  and 
have  delight  in  remembering  the  fact — the  welcome,  if 
less  boisterous,  should  be  not  less  sincere.  Commend 
to  me  on  all  occasions  the  man  or  woman  who,  "  with 
lyart  haffets  thin  and  bare,"  can  sing  with  the  poet — 

"  Och  hey  !  gin  I  were  young  again, 
Ochone  !  gin  I  were  young  again  ; 
For  chasin'  bumbees  owre  the  plain 
Is  just  an  auld  sang  sung  again." 

ROBERT   FORD. 

287  Onslow  Drive, 
Dennistoun, 

Glasgow. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Rhymes  of  the  Nursery, 9 

Counting-out  Rhymes,  .S8 

Children's  Rhyme-Games,    55 

' '  Merry-ma-Tanzie, " 56 

"The  Mulberry  Hush."     57 

"  A  Dis,  a  Dis,  a  Green  Grass,"    ..  .  58 

"  Looby  Looby,"     59 

"I  Dree  I  Droppit  it," (iO 

"  Bab  at  the  Bowster," 61 

"The  Wadds,"  68 

"The  Wadds  and  the  Wears," 65 

"The  Widow  of  Babylon,"    68 

' '  London  Bridge, " 69 

"The  Jolly   Miller," 70 

"Willie  Wastle,"  70 

"  Oats  and  Beans  and  Barley,"  71 

"  Hornie  Holes,"     72 

"The  Craw," 73 

"  Neevie-neevie-nick-nack," 73 

"Blind  Man's  Buff,"    74 

'  ■  Wa t  e r  W al  1  fl o w  e  r , " 75 

"The  Emperor  Napoleon," 75 

"  A' the  Birdies  i' the  Air,"  76 

"Through  the  Needle-e'e,  Boys," 76 

"  King  Henry," 77 

"The  Bhie  Bird," 78 

"When  I  was  a  Young  Thing,"  78 

"Carry  my  Lady  to  London," 79 

"A,  B,  C^' 80 

"My  Theerie  and  my  Thorie," 80 

' '  Glasgow  Ships, " 81 

"  Airlie's  Green," 83 

"  Het  Rowes  and  Butter  Cakes," 83 

' '  Queen  Mary, " 84 

"  Whuppity  Scoorie,"  85 

"  Hinkumbooby,"  85 

' *  Three  Brethren  come  from  Spain, " 87 

"Here  Comes  a  Poor  Sailor  from  Botany  Bay 90 

"Janet  Jo," 91 

"The  Goloshans," 94 


8  CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Children's  Songs  and  Ballads, 101 

Cock  Robin, 101 

The  Marriage  of  Cock  Eobin  and  Jenny  Wren,  104 

The  North  Wind 109 

Little  Bo-Peep,  110 

The  House  that  Jack  Builr, Ill 

Simple  Simon, 114 

Old  Mother  Hubbard, 114 

Old  Mother  Goose,    115 

The  Old  Woman  and  her  Pig, 117 

A  Frog  he  would  a- wooing  go, ,  122 

The  Carrion  Crow 126 

My  Pretty  Maid,  127 

Can  ye  Sew  Cushions  ? 127 

Hush-a-ba  Birdie,  Croon, 129 

Dance  to  your  Daddie, 1 29 

Katie  Beardie 132 

The  Miller's  Dochter 133 

Hap  and  Row,    133 

How  Dan,  Dilly  Dow, 134 

Crowdie,   135 

Whistle,  whistle,   Auld  Wife,    136 

The  Three  Little  Pi^s,     137 

Cowe  the  Nettle  early,      138 

The  Wren's  Nest, 140 

Robin  Redbreast's  Testament,    141 

Children's  Humour  and  Quaint  Sayings, ...  143 

Schoolroom  Facts  and  Fancies,    163 

Children's  Stories,    182 

Blue  Beard, 184 

Jack  and  the  Bean-Stalk,    191 

The  Babes  in  the  Wood, 205 

Jack  the  Giant  Killer, 210 

Little  Red  Riding  Hood,     229 

Cinderella;  or,   the  Little  Glass  Slipper,    233 

Puss  in  Boots,    243 

Whittington  and  his  Cat,    249 

Beauty  and  the  Beast,     259 

The  Sleeping  Beauty,    274 


RHYMES  OF  THE  NURSERY. 


Writing  on  the  subject  of  nursery  rhymes  more  than 
half  a  century  ago,  the  late  Dr.  Robert  Chambers 
expressed  regret  because,  as  he  said,  "  Nothing  had  of 
late  been  revolutionised  so  much  as  the  nursery."  But 
harking  back  on  the  period  of  his  own  childhood,  he 
was  able  to  say,  with  a  feeling  of  satisfaction,  that  the 
young  mind  was  then  "  cradled  amidst  the  simplicities 
of  the  uninstructed  intellect ;  and  she  was  held  to  be 
the  best  nurse  who  had  the  most  coj)ious  supply  of  song, 
and  tale,  and  drollery^  at  all  times  ready  to  soothe  and 
amuse  her  young  charges.  There  M^ere,  it  is  true, 
some  disadvantages  in  the  system  ;  for  sometimes  sui)er- 
stitious  terrors  were  implanted,  and  little  })ains  were 
taken  to  distinguish  between  what  tended  to  foster  the 
evil  and  what  tended  to  elicit  the  better  feelings  of 
infantile  nature.  Yet  the  ideas  which  presided  over 
the  scene,"  he  continues,  "and  rung  through  it  all  the 
day  in  light  gabble  and  jocund  song,  were  simple,  often 
beautiful  ideas,  generally  well  expressed,  and  unques- 
tionably suitable  to  the  capacities  of  children. 
There  was  no  philosophy  about  these  gentle  dames ;  but 
there  was  generally  endless  kindness,  and  a  wonderful 
power  of  keeping  their  little  flock  in  good  humour.  It 
never  occurred  to  them  that  children  were  anything  but 
children — '  Bairns  are  just  bairns,'  my  old  nurse  would 

2 


10  RHYMES   OF   THE   NURSERY. 

say — and  they  never  once  thought  of  beginning  to 
make  them  men  and  women  while  still  little  more  than 
able  to  speak."  They  did  not ;  and^  in  the  common 
homes  of  Scotland,  they  do  not  to  this  hour.  The  self- 
same rhymes  and  drollery  which  amused  Dr.  Chambers 
as  a  child  are  amusing  and  engaging  the  minds  and 
exercising  the  faculties  of  children  over  all  the  land 
even  now.  I  question  if  there  is  a  child  anywhere 
north  of  the  Tweed  who  has  not  been  entertained  by 

Brow,  brow,  brinkie, 

Ee,  ee,  winkie, 

Nose,  nose,  nebbie. 

Cheek,  cheek,  cherrie, 

Mou,  mou,  merry. 

Chin,  chin,  chuckle, 

Curry-wurry  !  Curry-wurry  !  etc. 

Or  the  briefer  formula,  referring  only  to  the  brow,  the 
eye,  the  nose,  and  the  mouth,  which  runs  : — 

Chap  at  the  door. 

Keek  in. 
Lift  the  sneck. 

Walk  in. 

And  it  was  only  the  other  evening  that  I  saw  a  father 
with  his  infant  son  on  his  knee,  having  a  little  hand 
spread  out,  and  entertaining  its  owner  by  travelling 
from  thumb  to  little  finger,  and  repeating  the  old 
catch  : — 

This  is  the  man  that  broke  the  barn. 

This  is  the  man  that  stole  the  corn. 

This  is  the  man  that  ran  awa'. 

This  is  the  man  that  tell't  a'. 

And  puir  Pirly  Winkie  paid  for  a',  paid  for  a'. 


RHYMES    OF    THK    XLHSKRY.  n 

As  well  as  its  tVllow-rhvine  : — 

Tliis  little  \n<r  went  to  the  market, 
This  little  pig  stayed  at  home  ; 

This  Httle  pig  got  roast  beef. 
This  little  ])ig  got  none  ; 

This  little  })ig  cried,  Squeak  I  squeak  ! 
I  can't  find  my  way  home. 

Than  the  nonsense  rhymes  and  capers  that  have 
delighted  the  nursery  Hfe  of  Scotland  for  many  genera- 
tions, none,  of  course,  could  be  more  delectable — none 
more  suitable.  While  charming  the  sense,  they  have 
awakened  imagination  and  develo])ed  ]wetic  fancy  in 
thousands  who  otherwise  might  have  blundered  into 
old  age  proving  stolid  and  uninteresting  men  and 
women.  They  are,  for  this  reason,  part  and  j)arcel  of 
every  properly-balanced  life,  and  the  healthy  and  happy 
mind  can  never  let  them  go. 

Johnny  Smith,  my  fallow  fine. 

Can  you  shoe  this  horse  o'  mine  } 

Yes,  indeed,  and  that  I  can, 

Just  as  weel  as  ony  man. 

Ca'  a  nail  into  the  tae. 

To  gar  the  pownie  climb  the  brae  ; 

Ca'  a  nail  into  the  heel. 

To  gar  the  poAvnie  trot  weel ; 

There's  a  nail,  and  there's  a  brod. 

There's  a  pownie  weel  shod, 

Weel  shod,  w^eel  shod,  weel  shod  })ownie. 

What  pleasing  recollections  of  his  own  early  child- 
hood many  a  father  has  had  when,  sitting  with  his 
child  on  his  knee,  he  has  demonstrated  and  chanted 
that  rude  rhyme  by  the  fireside  o'  nights  far,  as  often 


12  RHYMES   OF   THE    NURSERY. 

has  been  the  case^  from  the  scene  where  he  learned  it ! 
To  know  such  is  to  reaHse  one,  at  least,  of  the  various 
reasons  why  the  old  delight  in  the  frolics  of  the  young. 

Hush-a-by  baby  on  the  the  tree  top. 
When  the  wind  blows  the  cradle  will  rock ; 
When  the  bough  breaks  the  cradle  will  fall, 
And  down  will  come  cradle  and  baby  and  all. 

This  is  a  rhyme  which  "  every  child  has  joyed  to 
hear."  Its  origin,  as  told  in  the  records  of  the  Boston 
(U.S.)  Historical  Society,  is  not  more  curious  than 
beautiful  and  significant.  "  Shortly  after  our  forefathers 
landed  at  Plymouth,  Massachusetts  (I  am  quoting),  a 
party  were  out  in  the  fields  where  the  Indian  women 
were  picking  strawberries.  Several  of  the  women,  or 
squaws  as  they  were  called,  had  papooses — that  is 
babies — and,  having  no  cradle,  they  had  them  tied  up 
in  Indian  fashion  and  hung  from  the  limbs  of  the  sur- 
rounding trees.  Sure  enough,  when  the  wind  blew 
these  cradles  would  rock  !  A  young  man  of  the  party 
observing  this,  pulled  off  a  piece  of  bark  and  wrote  off 
the  above  words,  which  is  believed  to  be  the  first  poetry 
written  in  America."     Several  have  curious  histories. 

Little  Jack  Horner 

Sat  in  a  corner 
Eating  his  Christmas  pie  ; 

He  put  in  his  thumb 

And  pulled  out  a  })lum. 
And  said.  What  a  good  boy  am  I  ! 

Master  Horner,  it  appears,  was  not  a  myth,  but  a 
real  personage.  Tradition  tells  that  when  Henry  VIII. 
suppressed  the  monasteries,  and  drove  the  poor  old 
monks  from  their  nests,  the  title-deeds  of  the  Abbey  of 


RHYMES   OF   THK    NL'KSKRV.  \y, 

Mells,  iiu'luding  tlie  .simi))tii()us  oranoc  l)iiilt  hy  Abbot 
Bellwood,  were  deniaiuled  by  the  Conunissioiurs.  The 
Abbot  of  Glastonbury  determined  instead  that  he  would 
send  them  to  London  ;  and,  as  the  documents  were  very 
valuable,  and  the  road  was  infested  by  thieves,  to  <ret 
them  to  the  metropolis  safely  he  ordered  a  ])ie  to  be 
made,  as  fine  as  ever  smoked  on  a  refeetory  table,  inside 
of  whieh  the  })reeious  documents  were  ])laeed,  and  this 
dainty  he  entrusted  to  a  lad  named  Horner  to  carry  uj) 
to  London  and  deliver  into  the  hands  of  the  ])arty  for 
whom  it  was  intended.  But  the  journey  was  lon^,  the 
day  was  cold,  the  boy  was  hungry,  the  pie  was  temj)ting, 
and  the  chances  of  detection,  the  youth  presumed,  were 
small.  So  he  broke  the  crust  of  the  pie,  and  behold  the 
parchment  !  He  pulled  it  forth  innocently  enough, 
wondering  by  what  chance  it  could  have  reached  there, 
and  arrived  in  town.  The  parcel  was  delivered,  but 
the  title-deeds  of  Mells  Abbey  estate  were  missing. 
Jack  had  them  in  his  pocket,  and — now  learning  their 
value — he  kept  them  there.  These  were  the  juiciest 
plums  in  the  pie.  Great  was  the  rage  of  the  Commis- 
sioners, heavy  the  vengeance  they  dealt  out  to  the  monks. 
But  Jack  kept  his  secret  and  the  documents,  and  when 
peaceful  times  wxre  restored  he  claimed  the  estates  and 
received  them.  So  goes  the  story  ;  and  it  may  be  true. 
But,  then,  in  the  light  of  its  truth,  whether  Master 
Horner  deserved  the  title  of  ''^  good  boy  "  bestowed  on 
him  by  the  rhyme" will  be  more  than  doubtful. 
We  all  know  the  lines, 

Mary  had  a  little  lamb. 

Its  fleece  was  white  as  snow  ; 

And  everywhere  that  Mary  went. 
The  lamb  was  sure  to  go. 


14  RHYMES   OF   THE   NURSERY. 

It  followed  her  to  school  one  day^ 

It  was  against  the  rule. 
And  made  the  children  laugh  and  play. 

To  see  a  lamb  at  school. 

These  verses  were  founded,  it  appears,  on  an  actual 
circumstance,  and  the  heroine  Mary  may  be  still  living. 
Less  than  eighty  years  ago  she  was  a  little  girl,  the 
daughter  of  a  farmer  in  Worcester  County,  Massachu- 
setts, U.S.  One  spring  her  father  brought  a  feeble 
lamb  into  the  house,  and  Mary  adopted  it  as  her  especial 
pet.  It  became  so  fond  of  her  that  it  would  follow  her 
everywhere.  One  day  it  followed  her  to  the  village 
school,  and,  not  knowing  well  what  to  do  with  it  there, 
the  girl  put  it  under  her  desk  and  covered  it  over  with 
her  shawl.  There  it  stayed  until  Mary  was  called  up 
with  her  class  to  the  teacher's  desk  to  say  her  lesson  ; 
but  then  the  lamb  went  quietly  after  her,  and  the  whole 
school  burst  out  laughing.  Soon  after,  John  Rollstone, 
a  fellow-student  with  Mary,  wrote  a  little  rhyme  com- 
memorating the  incident,  and  the  verses  went  rapidly 
from  lip  to  lip,  giving  the  greatest  delight  to  all.  The 
lamb  grew  up  to  be  a  sheep,  and  lived  many  years  ;  and 
when  it  died  Mary  grieved  so  much  that  her  mother 
took  some  of  its  wool,  which  was  "■  white  as  snow,"  and 
knitted  for  her  a  pair  of  stockings  to  w^ear  in  remem- 
brance of  her  pet.  Some  years  after,  Mrs.  Sarah  Hall 
composed  additional  verses  to  those  of  John  Rollstone, 
making  the  complete  rhyme  as  we  know  it.^      Mary 

*  The  following  are  the  added  lines  referred  to  : — 
i^nd  so  the  teacher  turned  him  out, 

But  still  he  lingered  near, 
And  waited  patiently  about 

Tdl  Mary  did  appear. 


RHYMES    OF   THE    NURSERY.  ir, 

took  such  good  care  of  tlu-  stockings  made  iVoiii  her 
lamb's  fleece  that  when  she  was  a  oto\vii-uj)  vvoinaii  she 
was  able  to  give  one  of  them  to  a  cluirch  bazaar  in 
Boston.  As  soon  as  it  became  known  tliat  the  stocking 
was  from  the  fleece  of  "  Mary's  httle  lamb/'  every  one 
wanted  a  ])iece  of  it.  So  the  stocking  was  unravelled, 
and  the  yarn  cut  into  short  pieces.  Each  piece  was 
fastened  to  a  card  on  wiiich  Mary  wrote  her  full  name, 
and  those  cards  sold  so  well  that  the}-  brought  the  hand- 
some sum  of  £28  to  the  Old  South  Church  in  Boston. 

Humpty-Dumpty  sat  on  a  wall, 
Humpty-Dum})ty  had  a  great  fall  ; 
Not  all  the  King's  horses,  nor  all  the  Kin^j's  men, 
Could  set  Hum])ty-Dum})ty  uj)  again 


'& 


Attempts  have  been  made  to  show^  how  that  was 
suggested  by  the  fall  of  a  bold  bad  baron  who  lived  in 
the  days  of  King  John  ;  but  every  child  more  than  ten 
years  old  knows  that  the  lines  present  a  conundrum, 
the  answer  to  which  is — an  t^p;.  And  yet,  were  it  no 
conundrum,  but  onl}'  a  nonsense  rhyme,  its  fascination 
for  the  budding  intellect  would  be  no  less.  It  is  enough 
when,  with  the  jingle  of  rhyme,  the  imagination,  is 
tickled,  as  in — 


And  then^he  ran  to  her,  and  laid 

His  head  upon  her  arm. 
As  if  he  said,  "  I'm  not  afraid, 

You'll  shield  me  from  all  harm." 

"  What  makes  the  lamb  love  Mary  so  ?  " 

The  eager  children  cry. 
*'  Why,  Mary  loves  the  lamb,  you  know,' 

The  teacher  did  reply. 


16  RHYMES    OF   THE   NURSERY. 

Hey  diddle  diir  -on  John, 

Went  to  his  b<  .xovwsers  on  ; 

One  shoe  off  a       i,ne  other  shoe  on, 
Hey  diddle  dinxiT]»Tin',  my  son  John  ; 

or — 

Cripple  Dick  upon  a  stick. 
And  Sandy  on  a  soo. 
Ride  away  to  Galloway 
To  buy  a  pund  o'  w^oo'  ; 

or  yet  again  in^ 

Sing  a  sang  o'  saxpence, 

A  baggie  fu'  o'  rye, 
Four-and-twe^^ty  blackbirds, 

Bakit  in  a  pie. 
When  the  pie  was  opened 

The  birds  began  to  stng  ; 
And  wasna  that  a  dainty  dish 

To  set  before  the  King  ? 

The  King  was  in  his  counting-house 

Counting  out  his  money. 
The  Queen  was  in  the  parlour 

Eating  bread  and  honey, 
The  maid  was  in  the  garden 

Hanging  out  the  clothes, 
When  by  came  a  blackbird 

And  snapped  afF  her  nose. 

For  such  supreme  nonsense  no  historical  origin  need  be 
sought,  surely.  Yet  part  of  the  latter  has  been  at 
least  applied  to  a  historical  personage  in  a  way  that  is 
worth  recalling.  Dr.  H.  J.  Pye,  who  w^as  created  Poet 
Laureate  in  succession  to  Thomas  Warton,  in  1790,  was. 


I 


RHYMKS    OF    THK    NURSERY.  17 


as  a  poet,  regularly  made   fw.  ,  of.      In    his    Xrir    ) 


car 


Odes  there  were  perpetual  rc^  .rences  to  the  coiuin^r 
spring:  and,  in  the  dearth  oi}  ,iore  important  toj)i(s, 
each  tree  and  field-flower  were  described  :  and  the  lark, 
and  every  other  bird  that  coul  be  brought  into  rhyme, 
were  sure  to  appear ;  and  his  poetical  and  patriotic 
olla  podrida  ultimately  provoked  the  adaptation  : 

When  the  Pye  was  opened, 

The  birds  began  to  sing, 
And  was  not  that  a  dainty  dish. 

To  set  before  a  king  .^ 

But  to  take  the  rhymes  only  by  themselves.  Action 
rhymes^  by  reason  of  their  pra-^tical  drollery,  never  fail 
to  amuse.  And  among  the  very  earliest  practised  is 
the  following.  The  nurse,  with  the  child  on  her  knee, 
take^  ^'nle  foot  in  cither  hand,  and,  making  them  go 
merrily  .  ^      id  down,  she  sings  : — 

This  is  Willie  W^alker,  and  that's  Tarn  Sim, 

He  ca'd  him  to  a  feast,  and  he  ca'd  him  ; 

He  sticket  him  on  the  spit,  and  he  sticket  him  ; 

And  he  owre  him,  and  he  owre  him, 

And  he  owre  him,  and  he  owre  him,  etc. 

Then,  to  keep  up  the  diversion,  may  follow  in  the  same 
manner  : — 

Twa  little  doggies  gaed  to  the  mill. 
This  way  and  that  way,  and  this  way  and  that  way  ; 
They  took  a  lick  out  o'  this  wife's  poke. 
And  a  lick  they  took  out  o'  that  wife's  poke, 
And  a  loup  in  the  lade,  and  a  dip  in  the  dam, 
And  hame  they  cam'  wallopin',  wallopin',  wallopin', 
etc. 


18  RHYMES   OF   THE    NURSERY. 

Or:— 

Feetikin^  feetikin^ 

When  will  ye  gang  ? 
When  the  nights  turn  short. 

And  the  days  turn  lang, 
ril  toddle  and  gang,  toddle  and  gang. 

Should  more  active  entertainment  be  demanded,  the 
child  will  be  set  bold  upright  on  one  knee,  and,  suiting 
the  action  to  the  line,  the  rhyme  will  be  : — 

This  is  the  way  the  ladies  ride. 

Jimp  and  sma',  jimp  and  sma'  ; 
This  is  the  way  the  gentlemen  ride. 

Trotting  a',  trotting  a'  ; 
This  is  the  way  the  cadgers  ride. 

Creels  and  a'  !  creels  and  a'  ! ! 

Creels  and  a'  ! ! ! 

For  variety's  sake,  on  an  easier  swing,  may  follow  : — 

A'  the  nicht  owre  and  owre. 

And  a'  the  nicht  owre  again  ; 
A'  the  nicht  owre  and  owre 

The  peacock  followed  the  hen. 

The  hen's  a  hungry  beast. 

The  cock  is  hollow  within  ; 
But  there's  nae  deceit  in  a  puddin', 

A  pie's  a  dainty  thing. 

A'  the  nicht  owre  and  owre. — Da  Capo. 
Or,  yet  more  to  engage  the  intellect  may  come  : — 

Poussie,  poussie,  baudrons, 

Whaur  ha'e  ye  been  ? 
Eve  been  to  London 

Seeing  the  Queen. 


Or 


And: 


RHYMES    OF   THE   NURSERY.  19 

Poussie^  poussie^  baudrons. 

What  gat  ye  there  ? 
I  gat  a  good  fat  mousikie, 

Rinning  up  a  stair. 

Poussie^  poussie,  baudrons. 

What  did  ye  wi't  ? 
I  put  it  in  my  meal-poke 

To  eat  it  wi'  my  bread. 


Hushie-ba^  birdie  beeton^ 
Your  mammie's  gane  to  Seaton, 
For  to  buy  a  lammie's  skin 
To  row  your  bonnie  boukie  in. 


Bye  baby^  buntin'^ 
Daddie's  gane  a-huntin'  : — 
Mammie's  gane  to  buy  a  skin. 
To  row  the  baby  buntin'  in. 


East  Coast  mothers  sing  : — 


Ding  dang^  bell  rang, 
Cattie's  in  the  well,  man. 
Fa'  dang  her  in,  man  ? 
Jean  and  Sandy  Din,  man. 
Fa'  took  her  out,  man  ? 
Me  and  Willie  Cout,  man. 
A'  them  that  kent  her 

When  she  w^as  alive, 
Come  to  the  burialie 

Between  four  and  five. 


20  RHYMES    OF   THE    NURSERY. 

Again : — 

Eezy  ozy  moolin's  o'  bread, 
Kens  na  whaur  to  lay  her  head, 
Atween  the  Kirkgate  and  the  Cross 
There  stands  a  bonnie  white  horse, 
It  can  gallop,  it  can  trot. 
It  can  carry  the  mustard-pot. 

And  yet  again  : — 

Willie  Warstle,  auld  Carle, 

Dottered,  dune,  and  doited  bodie. 

Feeds  his  weans  on  calfs'  lugs, 

Sowps  o'  brose,  and  draps  o'  crowdie. 

In  Arbroath  and  district,  mothers,  indicating  the  various 
parts  of  the  child's  anatomy  as  they  proceed,  sing  :— 

Brow  o'  knowledge. 
Eye  o'  life. 
Scent  bottle. 
Penknife. 
Cheek  cherry. 
Neck  o'  grace. 
Chin  o'  pluck — 

That's  your  face. 
Shoulder  o'  mutton. 
Breast  o'  fat. 
Vinegar-bottle, 
Mustard-pot — 

That's  my  laddie. 

Touching  severally  the  various  buttons  on  the  child's 
dress  during  its  repetition,  this  sort  of  fortune-telling 
rhyme  is  common  : — 


RHYMES    OF    rili:    NURSERY.  i>i 

A  laird,  a  lord, 
A  rich  man,  a  thief, 
A  tailor,  a  driiinmer^ 
A  stealer  o'  beef. 

Or  supposing  for  the  nonce  that  the  child  is  a  ])iece  of 
cooper-work^  requiring-  to  be  mended,  the  following, 
accompanied  by  the  supposed  process,  may  be  sung :    - 

Donald  Cooper,  Carle,  quo'  she. 

Can  ye  gird  my  coggie  ? 
Couthie  Carline,  that  I  can. 

As  weel  as  ony  bodie. 
There's  ane  about  the  mou'  o't. 
And  ane  about  the  body  o't. 
And  ane  about  the  leggen  o't. 

And  that's  a  girded  coggie  ! 

The  next  is  lilted  as  an  accompaniment  to  a  pretended 
game  of  thumj)s  : — 

Bontin's  man 
To  the  town  ran  ; 
He  coffed  and  sold. 
And  a  penny  down  told  ; 
The  kirk  was  ane,  and  the  choir  was  twa. 
And  a  great  muckle  thump  doon  aboon  a', 
Doon  aboon  a',  doon  aboon  a'. 

The  following  (as  Dr.  Chambers  remarks)  explains  its 
own  theatrical  character  : — 

I  got  a  little  manikin,  I  set  him  on  my  thoomiken ; 

I  saddled  him,  I  bridled  him,  I  sent  him  to  the  tooniken : 

I  coffed  a  pair  o'  garters  to  tie  his  little  hosiken  ; 

I  coffed  a  pocket-na})kin  to  dight  his  little  nosiken  ; 

I  sent  hun  to  the  garden  to  fetch  a  pimd  o'  sage 

And  found  Iiim  in  the  kitchen-neuk  kissing  little  Madge. 


22  RHYMES    OF   THE    NURSERY. 

While  dandling  the  child  on  her  knee  the  mother  or 
nurse  may  sing  : — 

I  had  a  little  pony, 

Its  name  was  Dapple  Grey  : 

I  lent  it  to  a  lady, 
To  ride  a  mile  away. 

She  whipped  it,  she  lashed  it, 
She  ca'd  it  owre  the  brae  ; 

I  winna  lend  my  pony  mair, 
Though  a'  the  ladies  pray. 

In  the  same  manner  the  above  may  be  followed  by — 

Chick  !  my  naigie, 

Chick  !  my  naigie. 

How  many  miles  to  Aberdaigy  ? 

Eight  and  eight,  and  other  eight  ; 

Try  to  win  there  by  candlelight. 


Or:- 


Or 


Cam'  ye  by  the  kirk  ? 

Cam'  ye  by  the  steeple  ? 
Saw  ye  our  gudeman. 

Riding  on  a  ladle  ? 

Foul  fa'  the  bodie, 
Winna  buy  a  saddle. 

Wearing  a'  his  breeks. 
Riding  on  a  ladle  ! 


The  cattie  rade  to  Passelet, 
To  Passelet,  to  Passelet, 
The  cattie  rade  to  Passelet, 
Upon  a  harrow-tine,  O. 


I 


so  as 


RHVMKS    OF    THK    MRSKin'. 

'Twas  on  a  weetic  Wt'(lius{la\ , 
Wednesday.  Wednesday  : 
'Twas  on  a  weetie  Wednesday, 
I  missed  it  aye  sin  syne^  (). 

Lighting'  a   stiek,  and  making  it  wave  to  and'fro/ 

to  form  a  semi-eirele  of  red  fire  before  the  child's  eves, 

the  nurse  will  sing  or  croon  : — 

Dingle,  dingle  doiisy, 

The  cat's  at  the  well. 
The  dog's  awa'  to  Miisselbro' 

To  buy  the  bairn  a  bell. 

Greet,  greet  bairnie. 

And  ye'se  get  a  bell ; 
If  ye  dinna  greet  faster^ 

I'll  keep  it  to  mysel'. 

Or  again,  dandling  the  child,  the  entertainment  may  be 
what  some  Perthshire  children  know  well  : — 

Riding  on  a  horsie,  never  standing  still, 
Doun  by  St.  Martins,  and  owre  by  Xewmill, 
In  bv  Guildtown  and  round  by  Cargill, 
Richt  up  Burstbane,  and  owre  by  Gallowhill, 
Yont  by  the  Harelaw,  and  doun  to  Wolfhill, 
And  that's  the  way  to  ride  a  horse  and  never 
stand  still. 

Or  the  universal  favourite  may  ensue  : — 

Ride  a  Cock-Horse  to  Banbury  Cross, 
To  see  an  old  woman  ride  on  a  white  horse  ; 
Rings  on  her  fingers  and  bells  on  her  toes, 
She  shall  have  music  wherever  she  goes. 


^24  RHYMES    OF   THP:    NURSERY. 

Or  :— 

Hey  diddle  diddle, 

The  cat  and  the  fiddle. 
The  cow  jumped  over  the  moon  ; 

The  little  dog  laughed. 

To  see  such  sport, 
And  the  dish  ran  away  with  the  spoon. 

In  a  reposeful  attitude,  such  rhymes  as  follow  may  be 
employed  : — 

Jack  and  Jill 

Went  up  the  hill 
To  fetch  a  pail  of  Avater  ; 

Jack  fell  down 

And  broke  his  crown. 
And  Jill  came  tumbling  after. 

Shoo  shuggie,  owre  the  glen, 
Mammie's  pet,  and  daddie's  hen. 

Baa,  baa,  black  sheep,  have  you  any  wool  ? 
Yes,  sir,  yes,  sir,  three  bags  full ; 
One  for  the  master,  one  for  the  dame. 
One  for  the  little  boy  that  lives  in  the  lane. 

Goosey,  Goosey  Gander, 

Where  shall  I  wander  ? 
Upstairs,  downstairs, 

And  in  my  lady's  chamber. 
There  I  met  an  old  man 

Who  wouldn't  say  his  prayers, 
I  took  him  by  the  left  leg. 

And  threw  him  downstairs. 


RHYMES    OF   THE    XURSKRV. 

Old  Mother  Hubbard,  she  went  to  tiie  cupboard. 

To  fetch  her  poor  do<>oie  a  bone  ; 
But  when  she  got  there,  the  cuj)])oard  was  bare. 

And  so  the  })oor  do<]foie  got  none. 

Little  Polly  Flinders 
Sat  among  the  cinders. 

Warming  her  })retty  little  toes. 
Her  mother  came  and  caught  her, 
And  whi})ped  her  little  daughter 

For  spoiling  her  nice  new  clothes. 

Tom,  Tom,  the  piper's  son, 

Stole  a  pig  and  away  he  run  ; 

Pig  was  eat,  and  Tom  Avas  beat. 

And  Tom  went  roaring  down  the  street. 

Little  Betty  Blue 

Has  lost  her  holiday  shoe. 

Give  her  another 

To  match  the  other, 
And  then  she  will  walk  in  two. 

Three  blind  mice  ;  three  blind  mice  ; 
See  how  they  run  :  see  how  they  run  ; 
They  all  ran  after  the  farmer's  wife. 
Who  cut  off  their  tails  with  a  carving  knife, 
Did  ever  you  see  such  fools  in  vour  life  ? 
Three  blind  mice  ! 

Mary,  Mary, 

Quite  contrairy. 
How  does  your  garden  grow  ? 

Silver  bells. 

And  cockle  shells. 
And  pretty-maids  all  in  a  row. 

3 


26  RHYMES   OF   THE   NURSERY. 

Pat-a-cake^  pat-a-cake,  baker's  man  ! 
Bake  a  cake  as  fast  as  you  can  ; 
Prick  it,  and  pat  it,  and  mark  it  with  T, 
And  put  it  in  the  oven  for  Tommy  and  me. 

Little  Miss  Muffet 

Sat  on  a  tuffet, 
Eating  her  curds  and  whey  ; 

There  came  a  great  spider 

And  sat  down  beside  her. 
And  frightened  Miss  Muffet  away. 

Jack  Sprat  could  eat  no  fat. 
His  wife  could  eat  no  lean ; 

And  so,  betwixt  them  both,  you  see, 
They  licked  the  platter  clean. 

Little  Tom  Tucker 
Sang  for  his  supper. 
What  shall  we  give  him  ? 
Brown  bread  and  butter. 
How  shall  he  cut  it 
Without  any  a  knife  ? 
How  shall  he  marry 
Without  any  wife  ? 

See-saw,  Margery  Daw, 

Jenny  shall  have  a  new  master ; 

She  shall  have  but  a  penny  a  day, 
Because  she  can't  work  any  faster. 

Roun',  roun'  rosie,  cuppie,  cuppie  shell. 

The  dog's  awa'  to  Hamilton,  to  buy  a  new  bell 

If  you  don't  tak'  it,  I'll  tak'  it  to  mysel', 
Roun',  roun'  rosie,  cuppie,  cuppie  shell. 


RHYMES   OF   THE   NURSERY.  27 

There  was  :i  little  man.  and  he  had  a  little  <riiM, 
And  his  bullets  were  made  of  lead,  lead,  lead  ; 

He  shot  Johnnie  T\vi<>-  through  the  middle  of  his  wig. 
And  knocked  it  right  off  his  head,  head,  head. 

Hickety,  pickety,  my  black  hen. 
Lays  eggs  for  gentlemen. 
Whiles  ana,  w^hiles  twa. 
Whiles  a  bonnie  black  craw. 


For  slightly  more  matured  wits  will  be  provided  : — 

There  was  an  old  woman  who  lived  in  a  shoe. 

She  had  so  many  children,  she  didn't  know  what  to  do  ; 

She  gave  them  some  broth,  without  any  bread, 

And  whipped  them  all  soundly  and  put  them  to  bed. 

Doctor  Foster,  went  to  Glo'ster 

In  a  shower  of  rain  ; 
He  stepped  in  a  puddle. 
Up  to  the  middle. 

And  never  went  there  again. 

This  is  another  version  of  one  that  has  been  given 
earlier : — 

Ding,  dong,  bell.  Pussy's  in  the  well. 

Who  put  her  in  ?     Little  Tommy  Thin. 

Who  pulled  her  out }     Little  Tommy  Stout. 
What  a  naughty  boy  was  that, 
Thus  to  drown  poor  Pussy  Cat. 

Little  Boy  Blue,  come,  blow  your  horn. 
The  sheep's  in  the  meadow,  the  cow's  in  the  corn ; 
Where  is  the  boy  that  looks  after  the  sheep  ? 
He's  under  the  haycock,  fast  asleep  ! 


28  RHYiMES    OF    THE    NURSERY. 

TafFy  was  a  Welshman^  TafFy  was  a  thief, 

TafFy  came  to  my  house,  and  stole  a  piece  of  beef; 

I  went  to  Taffy's  house,  Taffy  was  not  at  home  ; 

Taffy  came  to  my  house,  and  stole  a  marrow-bone. 

I  went  to  Taffy's  house,  Taffy  was  in  bed, 

I  took  up  a  broomstick  and  flung  it  at  his  head. 

The  lion  and  the  unicorn 

Fighting  for  the  crown  ; 
Up  jumps  a  wee  dog 

And  knocks  them  both  down. 
Some  got  white  bread. 

And  some  got  brown  : 
But  the  lion  beat  the  unicorn 

All  round  the  town. 

There  was  a  wee  wifie  row'd  up  in  a  blanket. 
Nineteen  times  as  high  as  the  moon  ; 

And  what  she  did  there  I  canna  declare, 
For  in  her  oxter  she  bure  the  sun. 

Wee  wifie,  wee  wifie,  wee  wifie,  quo'  I, 
O  what  are  ye  doin'  up  there  so  high  ? 

Em  blawin'  the  cauld  clouds  out  o'  the  sky. 
Weel  dune,  weel  dune,  wee  wifie,  quo'  I. 

What  ca'  they  you  } 

They  ca'  me  Tam  Taits  ! 

What  do  ye  do  ? 

I  feed  sheep  and  gaits  ! 

Where  feed  they  ? 

Doun  in  yon  bog  ! 
What  eat  they  ? 

Gerse  and  fog  ! 


RHYMES    OF   THE    NUKSl^KV.  ':Hj 

What  oic  they  ? 

Milk  and  wliey  ! 
Wha  Slips  that  ? 

Tarn  Taits  and  I  ! 

The  laverock  and  the  lintie, 

The  robin  and  the  wren  ; 
Gin  ye  harry  their  nests^ 

Ye'll  never  thrive  again. 

During  a  hail-storm  country  children  sing  : — 

Rainy^  rainy  rattle-stanes, 

Dinna  rain  on  me  ; 
But  rain  on  Johnnie  Groat's  House, 

Far  owre  the  sea. 

Again,  when  snow  is  falling  : — 

Snaw,  snaw,  flee  awa' 
Ow^re  the  hills  and  far  awa'. 

Towards  the  yellow-hammer,  or  yellow-yite — bird  of 
beautiful  plumage  though  it  be — because  it  is  the  sub- 
ject of  an  unaccountable  superstitious  notion,  which 
credits  it  with  drinking  a  drop  of  the  devil's  blood 
every  May  morning,  the  children  of  Scotland  cherish 
no  inconsiderable  contempt,  which  finds  expression  in 
the  rhyme  : — 

Half  a  puddock,  half  a  taed. 

Half  a  yellow  yorling  ; 
Drinks  a  drap  o'  the  deil's  blood 

Every  May  morning. 

On  the   East   Coast,  when   the  seagulls    fly  inland  in 
search  of  food,  the  children,  not  desiring  their  appear- 


30  RHYMES   OF   THE   NURSERY. 

ance — because  probably  of  the  old  superstition  that 
they  are  prone  to  pick  out  the  eyes  of  people — cry  to 
them  : — 

Seamaw,  seamaw,  my  mither's  awa' 
For  pouther  an'  lead^  to  shoot  ye  dead — 
Pit-oo  !  pit-oo  !  pit-oo  ! 

To  the  lark's  song  the  young  mind  gives  language,  in  a 
kindly  way,  thus  : — 

Larikie,  larikie,  lee  ! 
Wha'll  gang  up  to  heaven  wi'  me  ? 
No  the  lout  that  lies  in  his  bed. 
No  the  doolfu'  that  dreeps  his  head. 

Interpreting  similarly  the  lapwing's  cry,  they  retaliate 
with  : — 

Peese-weep  !  Peese-weep  ! 

Harry  my  nest,  and  gar  me  greet  ! 

Of  the  cuckoo  they  have  this  common  rhyme  : — 

The  cuckoo  is  a  bonnie  bird, 

He  sings  as  he  flies  ; 
He  brings  us  good  tidings  ; 

He  tells  us  no  lies. 

He  drinks  the  cold  water 

To  keep  his  voice  clear  ; 
And  he'll  come  again 

In  the  Spring  of  the  year. 

The  lady-bird,  or  "  Leddy  Lanners,"  is  a  favourite 
insect  with  children,  and  is  employed  by  them  to  dis- 
cover their  future  partners  in  life.     When  a  boy  or  girl 


RHYMES    OF   THE   NLRSKKV.  'M 

finds  onC;,  he,  or  she,  as  the  case  may  be,  })laces  it  on 
the  pahii  of  his,  or  her,  hand,  and  rej)eats,  until  it  Hies 
off",  the  Hnes  : — 

Leddy,  Leddy  Lanners, 

Leddy,  Leddy  Lanners, 
Tak'  up  yer  cloak  about  yer  head 

An'  flee  awa'  to  Flann'ers  ; 
Flee  ower  firth,  an'  flee  ower  fell. 
Flee  ower  pool,  an'  rinnin'  well. 
Flee  ower  hill,  an'  flee  ower  mead. 
Flee  ower  livin',  flee  ower  dead. 
Flee  ower  corn,  an'  flee  ower  lea. 
Flee  ower  river,  flee  ower  sea. 
Flee  ye  p].ast,  or  flee  ye  West, 
Flee  to  the  ane  that  loves  me  best. 

The  following  rhyme,  old  and  curious,  and  still  not 
unknown  to  the  young  in  Scotland  and  England  alike, 
has  many  varieties  : — 

Matthew,  Mark,  Luke,  and  John, 
Bless  the  bed  that  I  lie  on  ; 
Four  posties  to  my  bed. 
Six  angels  are  outspread  : 
Two  to  bottom,  two  to  head. 
One  to  watch  me  while  I  pray. 
One  to  bear  my  soul  away. 

After  the  first  two  lines  it  goes  sometimes  : — 

Four  corners  to  my  bed. 
Four  angels  round  my  head  ; 
One  to  read  and  one  to  write, 
Two  to  guard  my  bed  at  night. 


32  RHYMES    OF   THE   NURSERY. 

And  often  the  closing  lines  run  :— 

One  to  watch  and  two  to  pray^ 
One  to  keep  all  fears  away. 

In  an  old  MS.  by  Aubrey^  in  the  British  Miiseinii^  he 
states  that  this  was  a  prayer  regularly  used  by  people 
when  they  went  to  bed.  Then  Ody,  in  his  Ccmdle  in 
the  Dark,  l656,  tells  that  it  was  frequently  used  by  old 
people  as  a  charm^  and  was  repeated  three  times  before 
going  to  bed.  Launcelot  Sharpe^  in  his  Towneleij 
Mysteries,  1838^  relates  that  he  had  often^  when  a  boy, 
heard  similar  words  used  in  Kent  as  a  prayer. 

Since  about  the  time  of  the  Crimean  War — and  more 
immediately  after  then  than  now — the  children  of 
Glasgow  have  shouted  in  the  streets  : — 

Saw  ye  the  Forty-Second  } 

Saw  ye  them  gaun  awa'  } 
Saw  ye  the  Forty-Second 

Marching  to  the  Broomielaw  } 
Some  o'  them  had  boots  an'  stockin's, 

Some  o'  them  had  nane  ava  ; 
Some  of  them  had  tartan  plaidieS;, 

Marching  to  the  Broomlielaw. 

At  an  earlier  period  they  had  : — 

Wha  saw  the  Cotton-spinners  } 

Wha  saw^  them  gaun  awa'  } 
Wha  saw  the  Cotton-spinners 

Sailing  frae  the  Broomielaw  } 
Some  o'  them  had  boots  an'  stockin's. 

Some  o'  them  had  nane  ava  ; 
Some  o'  them  had  umbrellas 

For  to  keep  the  rain  awa'. 


RHYMES    OF    'rHK    NURSI^RY.  .'i.'{ 

There  are  many  similar  entertainments  wliich  these 
suggest.  But  to  follow  in  extent  the  out-door  rhymes 
of  the  bairns  would  carry  us  beyond  the  prescribed 
limits  of  this  cha})ter.  No^ie  have  been  cited,  so  far, 
that  do  not  belong  absolutely  to  the  nursery  ;  and  the 
collection  of  these  even,  though  fairly  ample,  is  not  so 
full  as  it  might  be.  We  will  conclude  with  a  few,  each 
of  which  forms  a  puzzle  or  conundrum — some  of  them, 
in  all  conscience^  gruesome  enough,  and  full  of  terrible 
mystery — but^  individually,  well  calculated  to  awaken 
thought  and  stir  imagination  in  any  youthful  circle. 

As  I  gaed  owre  the  Brig  o'  Perth 

I  met  wi'  George  Bawhannan  ; 
I  took  aff  his  head,  and  drank  his  bluid. 

And  left  his  body  stannin'. 

[A  bottle  of  wine.] 

As  I  looked  owre  my  window  at  ten  o'clock  at  nicht, 
I  saw^  the  dead  carrying  the  living. 

[A  ship  sailing.] 

Hair  without  and  hair  within, 

A'  hair,  and  nae  skin.  [A  hair  ro})e.] 

Three  feet  up,  cauld  and  dead, 

Twa  feet  doun,  flesh  and  bluid  ; 

The  head  o'  the  livin'  in  the  mouth  o'  the  dead  : 

An  auld  man  wi'  a  pot  on  his  head. 

[Last  line  is  the  answer.] 

There  was  a  man  o'  Adam's  race, 
Wha  had  a  certain  dwellin'  place  ; 
It  was  neither  in  heaven,  earth,  nor  hell. 
Tell  me  where  this  man  did  dwell. 

[Jonah  in  the  whale's  belly.] 


34  RHYMES    OF   THE    NURSERY. 

A  ha'penny  here,  an'  a  ha'penny  there, 
Fourpence-ha'penny  and  a  ha'penny  man* ; 
A  ha'penny  weet,  an'  a  ha'penny  dry, 
Fourpence-ha'penny  an'  a  ha'penny  forby — 
How  much  is  that  ? 

[A  shiUing.] 

There  was  a  prophet  on  this  earth, 

His  age  no  man  could  tell ; 
He  was  at  his  greatest  height 

Before  e'en  Adam  fell. 

His  wives  are  very  numerous. 

Yet  he  maintaineth  none  ; 
And  at  the  day  of  reckoning 

He  bids  them  all  begone. 

He  wears  his  boots  when  he  should  sleep. 

His  spurs  are  ever  new  ; 
There's  no  a  shoemaker  on  a'  the  earth 

Can  fit  him  wi'  a  shoe, 

[A  cock.] 

Riddle  me,  riddle  me,  rot-tot-tot, 

A  wee,  wee  man  in  a  red,  red  coat ; 

A  staff  in  his  hand  and  a  stane  in  his  throat. 

Riddle  me,  riddle  me,  rot-tot-tot. 

[A  cherry.] 

There  was  a  man  made  a  thing. 
And  he  that  made  it  did  it  bring ; 
But  he  'twas  made  for  did  not  know 
Whether  'twas  a  thing  or  no. 

[A  coffin.] 


RHYMES    OF   THE    NURSERY.  .sr> 

Pease-porridge  het,  ])ease-})orridge  caiild, 
Pease-porridge  in  a  pot  ten  days  auld  ; 
Spell  me  that  in  four  letters. 

[t-h-a-t.] 

I  sat  wi'  my  love,  and  I  drank  \vi'  my  love, 

And  my  love  she  gave  me  light ; 
I'll  give  an}^  man  a  pint  o'  wine 
To  read  my  riddle  right. 
[He  sat  in  a  chair  made  of  his  mistress's  bones,  drank 
out  of  her  skull,  and  was  lighted  by  a  candle  made  of 
the  substance  of  her  body.] 

Mouth  o'  horn,  and  beard  o'  leather ; 

Ye'll  no  guess  that  were  ye  hanged  in  a  tether. 

[A  cock.] 

Bonnie  Katie  Brannie  stands  at  the  wa', 

Gi'e  her  little,  gi'e  her  muckle,  she  licks  uj)  a'  : 

Gi'e  her  stanes,  she  eats  them — but  water,  she'll  dee. 

Come,  tell  this  bonnie  riddleum  to  me. 

[The  fire.] 

Down  in  yon  meadow 

There  sails  a  boat ; 
And  in  that  boat 

The  King's  son  sat. 
I'm  aye  telling  ye. 

But  ye're  no  calling, 
Hoo  they  ca'  the  King's  son 

In  the  boat  sailing. 

[Hoo,  or  Hugh.] 
As  I  gaed  owre  Bottle-brig, 

Bottle-brig  brak'  ; 
Though  ye  guess  a'  day. 

Ye  winna  guess  that.  [The  ice.] 


36  RHYMES    OF   THE   NURSERY. 

If  Dick's  father  is  John's  son. 
What  relation  is  Dick  to  John  ? 

[His  grandson.] 
The  brown  bull  o'  Baverton, 

Gaed  owre  the  hill  o'  Haverton  ; 
He  dashed  his  head  atween  twa  stanes 
And  was  brought  milk-white  hanie. 

[Corn  sent  to  the  mill  and  ground.] 

A  beautiful  lady  in  a  garden  was  laid, 

Her  beauty  was  fair  as  the  sun  ; 
In  the  first  hour  of  her  life  she  was  made  a  man's  wife, 

And  she  died  before  she  was  born. 

[Eve.] 

The  minister,  the  dominie,  and  Mr.  Andrew  La,  ^, 
Went  to  the  garden  where  t^ree  pears  h-nig : 
Each  one  took  a  pear — how  many  pears  then  ? 

[Two  :  the  three  jiersons  were  one.] 

Mou'd  like  the  mill-door,  luggit  like  the  cat ; 
Though  ye  guess  a'  day,  ye'll  no  guess  that. 

[An  old-fashioned  kail-pot.] 

There  stands  a  tree  at  our  house-end. 
It's  a'  clad  owtc  wi'  leather  bend  : 
It'll  fecht  a  bull,  it'll  fecht  a  bear. 
It'll  fecht  a  thousand  men  o'  wear. 


[Death. 


Lang  man  legless, 

Gaed  to  the  door  staffless  : 

Goodwife,  put  up  your  deuks  and  hens  ; 


For  dogs  and  cats  I  carena. 


[A  worm.] 


RHYMES    OF   THE    XURSKRV. 

As  I  gaed  to  Falkland  to  a  feast, 
I  met  me  ^\l   an  ugly  beast : 
Ten  tails,  a  hunder  nails^ 
And  no  a  fit  but  ane. 


[A  shi), 


As  I  cam'  owre  the  tap  o'  Trine, 

I  met  a  drove  o'  Highland  swine  : 

Some  were  black,  and  some  were  brawnet. 

Some  o'  them  was  yellow  tappit. 

Sic  a  drove  o'  Highland  swine 

Ne'er  cam'  owre  the  tap  o'  Trine. 

[A  swarm  of  bees.] 

Infir  taris,  inoknonis  ; 
Inmudeelis,  inclaynonis. 
Canamaretots  ? 

['n  fir  tar  is,  lii  oak  none  is  ; 
In  mad  eel  is,  in  clay  none  is. 
Can  a  mare  eat  oats  ?] 

Wee  man  o'  leather 

Gaed  through  the  heather. 

Through  a  rock,  through  a  reel. 

Through  an  auld  spinning-wheel. 

Through  a  sheep-shank  bane. 

Sic  a  man  was  never  seen, 

Wha  had  he  been  ? 

[A  beetle.] 

The  robbers  cam'  to  our  house 

When  we  were  a'  in  ; 
The  house  lap  out  at  the  windows. 

And  we  were  a'  ta'en. 

[Fish  caught  in  a  net.] 


COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 


The  use  of  doggerel  rhymes  by  children  in  playing 
their  out-of-door  games^  to  decide  by  the  last  word 
which  of  their  number  shall  be  ''Mt  "  or  ''  takkie/'  in 
games  like  "  Hide  and  Seek  "  and  '^  I  Spy/'  must  be 
familiar  to  every  reader  who  has  had  any  youth  worthy 
of  being  so  called.  What  is  not  Avell  known^  however^ 
is  the  fact  that  some  of  them — the  rhymes^  I  mean — 
that  very  common  one  in  particular^  beginning — "  One- 
ery^  two-ery^  tickery_,  seven/'  and  its  fellow  in  like 
respect;,  with  the  opening  line — "  Eeny^  meeny,  manny^ 
mo  " — have^  in  almost  identical  form^  been  in  active  use 
by  the  wee  folks  for  hundreds  of  yearS;,  as  they  are 
stilly  in  nearly  every  country  of  Europe^  Asia^  Africa, 
and  America.  That  the  pastime  has  been  common 
among  the  children  of  civilized  and  semi-civilized  races 
alike  is  certainly  of  curious  interest,  and  yet  investiga- 
tion has  proved  this  to  be  the  case.  Not  only  so,  but 
the  form  of  use  is  nearly  always  identical.  A  leader,  as 
a  rule  self-appointed,  having  engaged  the  attention  of 
the  boys  and  girls  about  to  join  in  a  proposed  game, 
arranges  them  either  in  a  row  or  in  a  circle  around  him. 
He  then  repeats  the  rhyme,  fast  or  slow,  as  he  is 
capable  or  disposed,  pointing  with  the  hand  or  fore- 
finger to  each  child  in  succession,  not  forgetting  himself. 


COUNTING-OUT    HH^MlvS.  :i() 

and  allottino-  to  eacli  one  word  of  tlie  niysterioiis  tonmila. 
It  may  be,  for  exani})le  : — 

Eeny,  meeny,  manny,  mo, 
Catch  a  nigger  by  the  toe  ; 
When  he  hollers,  let  him  go, 
Eeny,  meeny,  manny,  mo. 

Having  completed  the  verse,  the  child  on  whom  the 
last  word  falls  is  said  to  be  "  out,"  and  steps  aside.  At 
each  repetition  one  in  like  manner  ste})s  aside,  and  the 
one  w^ho  survives  the  ordeal  until  all  the  rest  have 
been  "  chapped  "  or  ^'^titted  "  out  is  declared  *^Mt  "  or 
"  takkie,"  and  the  game  proceeds  forthwith.  Some- 
times the  formula  employed  in  certain  parts  of  Scotland, 
as  I  recollect,  was  for  each  boy  to  insert  his  finger  into 
the  leader's  cap,  around  which  all  the  company  stood. 
The  master  of  the  ceremonies  then  with  his  finger 
allotted  a  word  to  each  '^finger  in  the  pie."  It  might 
be:— 

Eenity,  feenity,  fickety,  feg. 

El,  del,  domen,  egg, 

Irky,  birky,  story,  rock, 

Ann,  Dan,  Toosh,  Jock. 

With  the  pronouncement  of  the  word  "  Jock,"  the 
M.C.'s  finger  came  down  with  a  whack  which  made  the 
one  "chapped  out"  be  withdrawn  in  a  "hunder  hurries." 
In  some  parts  of  America  a  peculiar  method  obtains. 
The  alphabet  is  repeated  by  the  leader,  who  assigns  one 
letter  to  each  child  in  the  group,  and  when  a  letter  falls 
to  a  child  which  is  the  same  as  the  initial  of  his  last 
name,  that  child  falls  out,  and  this  is  continued,  ob- 
serving the  same  plan,  until  only  one  child  remains, 
who  is  '^Mt."      There  are  other  forms,  too,  but  none 


40  COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

strikingly  dissimilar.  Where  the  little  ones  have  been 
in  haste  to  proceed  with  the  game^,  and  in  no  mood  to 
waste  time  in  counting  out  each  one  to  the  last,  they 
have  taken  the  sharper  process  of  saying — 

Red,  white,  yellow,  blue. 
All  out  but  you, 

and  by  the  first  reading  fixed  the  relationship  of  parties. 
Now,  a  very  important  and  interesting  feature  of 
these  rhymes  and  their  application,  as  I  have  said,  is 
found  in  the  fact  that  they  prevail  in  a  more  or  less 
identical  form  all  over  the  world.  When  this  is  so, 
their  common  origin  is  placed  almost  beyond  dis})ute. 
The  question  only,  which  perhaps  no  one  can  answer, 
is — Whence  come  they  }  It  would  not  be  hazarding 
too  much  to  say,  I  think,  that  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
Jacob  in  their  turn  as  boys,  with  other  boys  of  their  time, 
each  used  a  form  of  counting-out  rh}  me  in  the  manner 
and  for  the  purpose  for  which  they  are  still  in  vogue  by 
the  boys  and  girls  of  the  present  day.  Undoubtedly 
they  found  a  precedent,  if  they  did  not  actually 
themselves  exercise  a  part,  in  the  very  ancient  custom 
of  casting  lots,  which  prevailed  among  the  heathen  as 
well  as  among  the  chosen  people  of  God  in  very  early 
times.  From  sacred  history  we  learn  that  lots  were 
used  to  decide  measures  to  be  taken  in  battle;  to  select 
champions  in  individual  contests  ;  to  determine  the 
partition  of  conquered  or  colonised  lands  ;  in  the  divi- 
sion of  spoil ;  in  the  appointment  of  Magistrates  and 
other  functionaries ;  in  the  assignment  of  priestly  offices ; 
and  in  criminal  investigations,  when  doubt  existed  as  to 
the  real  culprit.  Among  the  Israelites,  indeed,  the  cast- 
ing of  lots  was  divinely  ordained  as  a  method  of  ascer- 
taining the  Holy  will,  and  its  use  on  many  interesting 


COUNTING-OUT    RHVMKS.  41 

occasions  is  described  in  the  Holy  Scriptures.  Tlur 
sini})licity  of  the  process,  and  its  unanswerable  result, 
were  appreciated  by  Solomon,  who  says  :  "  The  lot 
causeth  contentions  to  cease,  and  })arteth  between  the 
mighty"  (Prov.  xviii.  18).  In  New  Testament  tinus, 
again,  Matthias  was  chosen  by  lot  to  "  take  the  place 
in  this  ministry  and  a})Ostleship  from  which  Judas  fell 
away  "  (Acts  i.  24-26).  The  Babylonians,  when  about 
to  wage  war  against  another  nation,  were  wont  to 
determine  w^hich  city  should  be  attacked  first  by  casting 
lots  in  a  ])eculiar  manner.  The  names  of  the  cities 
were  written  on  arrows.  These  were  shaken  in  a  bag, 
and  the  one  drawn  decided  the  matter  (see  Ezekiel  xxi. 
21-22).  A  like  method  of  divination,  called  belommiy, 
was  current  among  the  Arabians  before  Mahomet's  rise, 
though  it  was  afterwards  prohibited  by  the  Koran. 
By  imitation  of  their  elders,  to  which  children  are  con- 
stantly prone — in  the  making  of  ''  housies,"  in  nursing 
of  dolls,  etc.  etc. — doubtless  there  came  the  counting- 
out  rhyme.  What  is  not  so  easily  understood  is  their 
existence  in  so  many  identical  forms  in  so  many  widely 
distant  lands.  As  an  example  of  how  cosmopolitan 
some  of  them  are,  let  us  track  a  familiar  enough  one  for 
a  fair  distance  and  see  how  it  a})pears  in  the  national 
garb  of  the  various  countries  in  which  it  has  found  bed, 
board,  and  bidino-.       All  over   Britain  and    America  it 


goes  : — 


One,  two,  buckle  my  shoe. 
Three,  four,  open  the  door, 
Five,  six,  pick  up  the  sticks, 
Seven,  eight,  lay  them  straight, 
Nine,  ten,  a  good  fat  hen. 
Eleven,  twel',  bake  it  well. 


42  COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

Thirteen^  fourteen,  maids  a-coiirting, 
Fifteen,  sixteen,  maids  a-kissing, 
Seventeen,  eighteen,  maids  a-waiting. 
Nineteen,  twenty,  my  stomach's  empty. 

In  Germany  it  is  found  in  various  forms,  but  one  will 
suffice  : — 

1,     2,  Polizei, 

3,     4,  Offizier, 

5,    6,  Alte  Hex, 

7,    8,  Gute  Nacht, 

9,  1 0,  Auf  Wiedersehen, 
11,  12,  Junge  Wolf, 
13,  14,  Blaue  Schiirzen, 
15,  l6,  Alte  Hexen, 
17,  18,  Madle  Wachsen, 
19,  20,  Gott  Verdanzig. 

In  France  it  also  appears  in  various  forms,  and  the 
children  of  Paris,  not  disposed  to  waste  time  and 
energy,  cut  it  briefly,  as  follows  : — 


"i 

L  n,  deux,  trois,  - 

Tu  ne  I'es  pas, 
Quatre,  cinq,  six, 
Va  t'en  d'ici. 


In  Italy  a  form  goes : — 


Pan  uno,  pan  duo. 
Pan  tre,  pan  quattro. 
Pan  cinque,  pan  sei. 
Pan  sette,  pan  otto, 
Pancotto  ! 


C()UNTIX(U)UT    UHYMKS.  i.s 

And  versions,  all  revealing  a  common  origin,  might  he 
quoted  in  the  languages  of  many  more  countries,  hut 
we  can  employ  our  space  to  hetter  jiurpose.  With 
regard  to  the  rhyme  already  quoted,  heginning, 
"  Eenity,  feenity,  fickety,  feg,"  it  has  heen  asked 
whether  the  second  line,  "  El,  del,  domen,  egg,"  would 
not  warrant  the  conclusion  that  it  sprang  into  exist- 
ence on  the  streets,  and  among  the  children,  of 
Ancient  Rome.  Perhaps  it  did  ;  for  who  may  say  it 
did  not  ?  There  is  that  very  common  one  all  over 
Scotland,  which,  it  will  be  remembered,  that  wonder- 
ful child,  Marjorie  Fleming,  played  off  on  Sir  Walter 
Scott  :— 

One-ery,  two-ery,  tickery,  sjeven. 
Alibi,  crackaby,  ten  and  eleven  ; 
Pin,. pan,  nmsky  dan  ; 
Twxedle-um,  twoddle-um,  twenty-one  ; 
Eerie,  orie,  ourie.      You  are  out ! 

A  similar  formula,  only  in  slightly  varying  words,  is 
found  in  the  folk-lore  of  almost  every  country  in  the 
world.  Commenting  on  the  opening  line,  the  late  Mr. 
Charles  G.  Leland,  author  of  the  Hans  Breitimmn 
ballads,  and  an  acknowledged  authority  on  the  language 
and  customs  of  the  Eastern  Gypsies,  sets  against  it  a 
Romany  stanza,  used  as  a  spell,  beginning  :— 

Ekkeri,  akai-ri,  you  kiar-an, 

and  remarks  that  "  Ekkeri,  akai-ri,"  literally  translated, 
just  gives  the  familiar  "  One-ery,  two-ery,"  which Jis 
etymologically  analogous  to  "  Hickory,  dickory,"  in  the 
all-pervading  nursery  rhyme  : — 


44  COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

Hickory^  dickory,  dock^ 
The  mouse  ran  iij)  the  clock  ; 
The  clock  struck  one,  and  down  the  mouse  ran, 
Hickory,  dickory,  dock. 

An  American  yersion  of  which,  by  the  bye,  goes  : — 

Hiddlety,  diddlety,  dumpty. 
The  cat  ran  up  the  plum  tree  ; 
Half-a-crown  to  fetch  her  down, 
Hiddlety,  diddlety,  dum})ty. 

But  still,  before  leaying  the  familiar  chapping-out 
rhyme  of  Marjorie  Fleming,  let  us  see  how  it  occurs 
again  in  Scotland  and  among  the  children  of  some  of 
the  other  English-speaking  nations,  to  go  no  further. 
Charles  Taylor,  in  the  Magpie;  or  Chattcrings  of  the  Pica, 
published  at  Glasgow  in  1 820,  gives  it  thus  : — 

Anery,  twaery,  duckery,  seven, 

Alama,  crack,  ten  am  eleven  ; 

Peem,  pom,  it  must  be  done. 

Come  teetle,  come  total,  come  twenty-one  ; 

and  remarks  : — "  This  is  reported  to  have  originated 
with  the  Druids  ;  the  total  number  of  words  is  twenty- 
one,  and  it  seems  to  be  a  mixture  of  words  put  into 
rhyme."  In  the  streets  and  lanes  and  open  spaces  of 
Aberdeen  it  runs  : — 

Enery,  twa-ery,  tuckery,  taven, 
Halaba,  crackery,  ten  or  eleven  ; 
Peen,  pan,  musky  dan, 
Feedelam,  Fadelam,  twenty-one. 


COUNTIN(;-()UT    UHVMKS.  45 

Jn  the  county  of  Wexford,  in  Ireland,  it  ^roes  : 

One-ery,  two-ery,  dickery,  Davy, 
Hallabone,  erackabone,  tenery,  Navy  ; 
Disconie,  dandy,  merry-conie-tine, 
Humbledy,  bimibledy,  twenty-nine, 
O-U-T,  out.     You  nuist  i>o  out ! 

In  the  Midlands  of  England  :— 

One-ery,  two-ery,  dickery,  dee, 

Halibo,  crackibo,  dandilee  ; 

Pin,  ])an,  muskee  dan, 

Twiddledum,  twaddledum,  twenty-one  ; 

Black  fish,  wiiite  trout, 

Eeny,  meeny,  yoii  go  out. 

In  Massachusetts,  U.S.,  America  : — 

Ena,  deena,  dina,  dust, 
Catler,  wheeler,  whiler,  whust ; 
Spin,  spon,  must  be  done, 
Twiddleum,  twaddleum,  twenty-one. 

In  the  island  of  Guernsey  : — 

Eena,  deena,  dina,  duss, 
Catalaweena,  wina,  w^uss ; 
Tittle,  tattle,  what  a  rattle, 
O-U-T  spells  out ! 

Another  Scotch  version  : — 

One-ery,  two-ery,  tickery,  ten, 
Bobs  of  vinegar,  gentlemen  ; 
A  bird  in  the  air,  a  fish  in  the  sea ; 
A  bonnie  wee  lassie  come  singing  to  thee. 
One,  two,  three  I 


46  COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

Of  the  "Eeny^  feenity^  fickety^  feg  "  rhyme,  we  find 
these  evident  varieties.  This,  said  to  be  used  in  the 
West  of  Scotland  : — 

Zeeny,  meeny,  fickety,  fick, 
Deal,  doll,  dominick  ; 
Zanty-panty,  on  a  rock,  toosh  ! 

This  in  Cumberland  : — 

Eeny,  pheeny,  figger}^,  fegg, 
Deely,  dyly,  ham  and  egg. 
Calico  back,  and  stony  rock, 
Arlum,  barium,  bash  ! 

In  the  United  States  : — 

Inty,  minty,  tippity,  fig, 
Dinah,  donah,  norma,  nig, 
Oats,  floats,  country  notes  ; 
Dinah,  donah,  tiz, 
Hulla-ballop-bulloo, 
Out  goes  you  ! 

This  curious  one  in  Edinburgh  : — 

Inty,  tinty,  tethery,  methery. 

Bank  for  over,  Dover,  ding, 

Aut,  taut,  toosh  ; 

Up  the  Causey,  down  the  Cross, 

There  stands  a  bonnie  white  horse  : 

It  can  gallop,  it  can  trot. 

It  can  carry  the  mustard  pot. 

One,  two,  three,  out  goes  she  ! 


COUx\TING-OUT    RHYMES.  i; 

Again^  in  Scotland  : — 

Inky,  pinky,  })eerie-winkie, 
Hi  domin  I. 

Arky,  parky,  tarry  rope, 
Ann,  tan,  toozy  Jock. 

This  is  truly  American — the  first  line  of  which,  by  the 
bye,  is  derived  from,  or  is  borrowed  by,  the  College 
song,  "  King  of  the  Cannibal  Islands  "  : — 

Hoky  pok}^,  win^y  wum. 

How  do  you  like  your  'taters  done  } 

Snip,  snap,  snorum. 

High  popolorum, 

Kate  go  scratch  it. 

You  are  out  I 

That  this  also  is  from  beyond  the  "  i)ond  "  is  evident : — 

As  I  was  walking  down  the  lake, 
I  met  a  little  rattlesnake. 
I  gave  him  so  mucK  jelly-cake. 
It  made  his  little  belly  ache. 
One,  two,  three,  out  goes  she  ! 

In  the  West  of  Scotland  they  sometimes  say  : — 

Ease,  ose,  man's  nose  ; 
Cauld  parritch,  pease  brose. 

Forfarshire  bairns  say  : — 

Eemer-awmer,  Kirsty  Gawmer, 
Doon  i'  Carnoustie,  merchant-dale. 
Leddy  Celestie,  Sandy  Testie, 
Bonnie  poppy-show. 
You — are — out ! 


48  COUXTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

And  elsewhere,  but  still  in  Scotland  : — 

Eatum^  peatum,  potinn,  pie, 
Babylonie,  stickum,  stie, 
Dog's  tail,  hog's  snout, 
I'm  in,  you're  out. 


Or 


Eerie,  orie,  owre  the  dam. 
Fill  your  poke  and  let  us  gang ; 
Black  fish  and  white  trout. 
Eerie,  orie,  you  are  out. 

Another  goes  : — 

A  ha'penny  puddin',  a  ha'penny  pie, 
Stand  you  there,  you're  out  by. 

The  last  apjiears  in  Chambers'  Popular  Ehipnes  of 
Scotland,  which  interesting  collection  embraces  also  the 
next  two.     First  :— 

My  grandfather's  man  and  me  fell  out, 
How  will  we  bring  the  matter  about } 
We'll  bring  it  about  as  weel  as  we  can. 
And  a'  for  the  sake  o'  my  grandfather's  man. 


Second 


Master  Foster,  very  good  man. 
Sweeps  his  college  now  and  than. 
After  that  he  takes  a  dance 
Up  from  London  dow^n  to  France, 
With  a  black  bonnet  and  a  white  snout, 
Stand  you  there,  you  are  out. 


i 


COUNTIXG-OUT    RHYMES.  4C> 

111    (xlasgow^    I   am    told,   the   next    one    used    to    l)e 
coinmon  : — 

As  I  gaed  iij)  tlie  aj)})]e  tree 

A'  the  ap})les  fell  on  me  ; 

Bake  a  puddin',  bake  a  pie, 

Send  it  up  to  John  Mackay  ; 

John  Mackay  is  no  in, 

Send  it  up  to  the  man  i'  the  mune  ; 

The  man  i'  the  mune's  mendin'  his  shoon, 

Three  bawbees  and  a  farden  in. 


Also  this  :- 


As  I  went  up  the  apple  tree. 

All  the  apples  fell  on  me  ; 

Bake  a  puddin',  bake  a  pie, 

Did  you  ever  tell  a  lie  } 

Yes  I  did,  and  many  times. 

O-U-T,  out  goes  she 

Right  in  the  middle  of  the  deep  blue  sea. 


And  this 


Eerie,  orie,  ickery,  am. 
Pick  ma  nick,  and  slick  ma  slam. 
Oram,  scoram,  pick  ma  noram, 
Shee,  show,  sham,  shutter. 
You — are — out  I 

In  f^ngland  and  Scotland  alike  this  has  been  used, 
with  slight  variations,  for  at  least  a  hundred  years  : — 

As  I  went  up  the  brandy  hill, 
I  met  my  father,  wi'  gude  will ; 
He  had  jewels,  he  had  rings. 
He  had  monv  braw  things  ; 


50  COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

He'd  a  cat  and  nine  tails^ 
He'd  a  hammer  wantin'  nails. 
Up  Jock^  doim  Tam^ 
Blaw  the  bellows,  auld  man. 
The  auld  man  took  a  dance, 
First  to  London,  then  to  France. 

Another : — 

Queen,  Queen  Caroline, 
Dipped  her  hair  in  turpentine  ; 
Turpentine  made  it  shine. 
Queen,  Queen  Caroline. 

And  yet  another  : — 

Tit,  tat,  toe. 
Here  I  go. 
And  if  I  miss, 
I  pitch  on  this. 

The  following  have  long  been  in  active  use  all  over 
Scotland,  if  not  also  elsewhere  : — 

Zeenty,  teenty,  halligo  lum, 
Pitchin'  tawties  doun  the  lum. 
Wha's  there  ?     Johnnie  Blair. 
What  d'ye  want  ?     A  bottle  o'  beer. 
Where's  your  money  ?     In  my  purse. 
Where's  your  purse  ?     In  my  pocket. 
Where's  your  pocket  ?     I  forgot  it. 
Go  down  the  stair,  you  silly  blockhead. 
You — are — out. 

Zeenty,  teenty,  alligo,  dan, 
Bobs  o'  vinegar,  gentleman, 
Kiss,  toss,  mouse,  fat, 
Bore  a  needle,  bum  a  fiddle, 


COUXTlX(;-()LT    KUVMKS. 

Jink  ma  jeerie,  jink  ma  jvc, 
Stand  you  there,  you're  out  bye. 

One,  two,  tln*ee,  four, 
Jenny  at  tlie  eottage  door, 
Eating  eherries  aff'  a  plate, 
Five,  six,  seven,  eight. 

Zeenty,  teenty,  feggerie  fell, 

Pompaleerie  jig. 
Every  man  who  has  no  hair 

Generally  wears  a  wig. 

Mistress  Mason  broke  a  basin, 

How^  much  will  it  be  ? 
Half-a-crown.      Lay  it  down. 

Out  goes  she  ! 

One,  two,  three,  four,  five,  six,  seven, 
All  good  children  go  to  heaven  ; 
When  they  die  their  sin's  forgiven. 
One,  two,  three,  four,  five,  six,  seven. 

One,  two,  three,  four,  five,  six,  seven. 
All  good  children  go  to  heaven  : 
A  penny  by  the  water. 

Tuppence  by  the  sea. 
Threepence  by  the  railway. 
Out  goes  she  ! 

Me  and  the  minister's  wife  coost  out. 
Guess  ye  what  it  was  about  ? 
Black  puddin',  dish-clout, 
Eerie,  orrie,  vou  are  out  ! 


52  COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

Master  Monday,  how's  your  wife  ? 

Very  sick,  and  like  to  die. 
Can  she  eat  ?     O  yes. 

As  much  as  I  can  buy. 
She  makes  the  porridge  very  thin, 
A  pound  of  butter  she  puts  in, 
Black  puddin',  white  clout. 
Eerie,  orrie,  you  are  out ! 

Inky  pinky,  my  black  hen 
Lays  eggs  for  gentlemen  ; 
Whiles  ane,  whiles  tw^a. 
Whiles  a  bonnie  black  craw. 
One — tw^o — three, 
You — are — out  ! 


Eeny,  meeny,  clean  peeny. 
If  you  want  a  piece  and  jeely. 


Just  walk  out ! 


John  says  to  John, 

How  much  are  your  geese  ? 
John  says  to  John, 

Twenty  cents  a-piece. 
John  says  to  John, 

That's  too  dear ; 
John  says  to  John, 

Get  out  of  here  ! 

Ching,  Ching,  Chinaman, 
How  do  you  sell  your  fish  ? 

Ching,  Ching,  Chinaman, 
Six  bits  a  dish. 


COUNTING-OUT    RUVMKS.  53 

Chiiio-,  Chin«r.  Chiiiainan, 

Oil  !  that's  too  dear  ; 
Chin<?,  Ching,  Chinaman, 

Clear  out  of  here  ! 

Lemons  and  oranges^  two  for  a  ])enny, 
I'm  a  good  scholar  that  counts  so  many. 
The  rose  is  red^  the  leaves  are  green, 
The  days  are  ])ast  that  I  have  seen. 

I  doot,  I  doot, 

My  fire  is  out. 
And  my  little  dog's  not  at  home  : 
I'll  saddle  my  cat,  and  I'll  bridle  my  dog, 
And  send  my  little  boy  home. 
Home,  home  again,  home  ! 

Jenny,  good  spinner. 

Come  down  to  your  dinner. 
And  taste  the  leg  of  a  roasted  frog  ! 

I  pray  ye,  good  people. 

Look  owre  the  kirk  steeple. 
And  see  the  cat  play  wi'  the  dog  ! 

Matthew,  Mark,  Luke,  John, 
Haud  the  horse  till  I  win  on  ; 
Haud  him  siccar,  haud  him  fair, 
Haud  him  by  a  pickle  hair. 

One,  two,  three. 

You  are  out  ! 

Around  the  house,  arickity-rary, 
I  hope  ye'll  meet  the  green  canary  : 

You  say  ay,  I  say  no. 

Hold  fast— let  go  ! 


54  COUNTING-OUT    RHYMES. 

Scottie  Malottie,  the  king  o'  the  Jews^ 
Sell't  his  wife  for  a  pair  o'  shoes  ; 
When  the  shoes  began  to  wear 
Scottie  Malottie  began  to  swear. 

In  Dundee  these  hnes  are  added  to  the  "  Eenity 
feenity  "  rhyme  : — 

Jock  out,  Jock  in^ 
Jock  through  a  hickle-pin. 
Eetle-ottle^  black  bottle  ; 
Eetle-ottle,  out  ! 

ThiS;,  more  commonly  used  as  a  test  of  truth-telling 
(little  fingers  being  linked  while  it  is  uttered)^  is  also 
used  on  the  East  Coast  as  a  counting-out  rhyme  : — 

I  ring^  I  ring,  a  pinky  ! 

If  I  tell  a  lie 
I'll  go  to  the  bad  place 

Whenever  I  die. 
White  pan,  black  pan. 

Burn  me  to  death, 
Tak'  a  muckle  gully 

And  cut  my  breath. 

Ten  miles  below  the  earth. 

Amen  ! 

But  these  all,  of  course,  as  already  stated,  have  been 
delivered  and  acted,  as  they  are  still,  rather  as  a  pre- 
lude to  the  more  elaborate  games  designed  to  follow 
than  as  a  part  of  them,  and  to  afford  designedly  the 
opportunity  of  deciding  emphatically  who  shall  be  "it" 
or  "  takkie." 


CHILDREN'S  RHYME-GAMES. 


When  by  the  aid  of  the  "  chappino-oiit  "  rhyme  it  has 
been  decided  who  should  be  ''  it,"  the  game  to  follow 
may  be  "  Single  Tig/'  "  Cross  Tig/'  "  Burly  Bracks 
Round  the  Stacks/'  "  Pussie  in  the  Corner/'  "  Bonnety," 
''  The  Tod  and  the  Hounds/'  "  I  Spy/'  "  Smuggle  the 
Keg/'  "Booly  Horn/'  ^^Dock/'  "Loup  the  Frog/'  "Foot 
and  a  Half/'  "  Bools/'  "  Pitch  and  Toss/'  or  any  one  of 
another  dozen^  all  of  which  are  essentially  boys'  games, 
and  have  no  rhymes  to  enliven  their  action.  But  if  it 
is  to  be  a  game  in  which  both  sexes  may  equally  engage, 
or  a  game  for  girls  alone,  then  almost  certainly  there  is 
a  rhpne  with  it.  Somehow  girls  have  always  been 
more  musical  than  boys,  even  as  in  their  maturer  years 
they  are  more  frequently  the  subject  of  song  than  their 
confreres  of  the  sterner  sex.  "  Peever/'  "  Tig,"  and 
"  Skipping  Rope,"  are  indeed^  so  far  as  I  can  recall  at 
the  moment,  about  all  of  the  girls'  commoner  games 
which  are  played  without  the  musical  accompaniment 
of  line  and  verse.  Their  rhyme-games,  on  the  other 
hand,  are  legion,  and  embrace  "  A  Dis,  a  Dis,  a  Green 
Grass,"  "The  Merry-Ma-Tanzie,"  "The  Mulberry  Bush," 
"  Carry  My  Lady  to  London/'  "  I  Dree  I  Dropj)it  It," 
"  Looby- Looby,"  and  ever  so  many  more. 

Like  the  counting-out  rhpnes,  the  game-rhymes  are 
found  in  only  slightly  differing  forms  in  widely  divided 


56  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

countries  and  places.  But  ever  alike^  they  are  never 
quite  the  same.  The  "  Merry-Ma-Tanzie/'  for  instance, 
though  always  the  same  in  name,  will  be  found  with 
varying  lines  in  almost  every  town  and  village  in  Scot- 
land even.  There  are  variants  equally,  I  suppose,  of 
all. 

"  Merry-ma-Tanzie  "  is  solely  a  girls'  game,  of 
which  boys,  however,  may  be  interested  spectators. 
The  counting-out  rhyme  having  put  one  in  the  centre, 
the  rest  join  hands  in  a  ring  about  her,  and  moving 
slowly  round,  they  sing  : — 

Here  we  go  round  the  jingo-ring. 

The  jingo-ring,  the  jingo-ring. 

Here  we  go  round  the  jingo-ring. 

About  the  merrv-ma-tanzie. 
•f 

Twice  about  and  then  -       fa'. 
Then  we  fa',  then     -    fa'. 
Twice  about  and  men  we  fa,',. 
About  the  merr3^-ma-tanzie. 

Choose  your  maidens  all  around. 
All  around,  all  around. 
Choose  your  maidens  all  around. 
About  the  merry-ma-tanzie. 

Replying  to  this  invitation,  the  one  in  the  centre 
chooses  two  from  the  circle,  and  retires  with  them  a 
short  distance  away.  During  their  absence  the  ring- 
band    jH'oceeds    as    before,    and    sing    with    imitating 

Sweep  the  house  ere  the  bride  comes  in. 
The  bride  comes  in,  the  bride  comes  in. 
Sweep  the  house  ere  the  bride  comes  in. 
About  the  merry-ma-tanzie. 


CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES.  -,? 

When  those  who  left  return,  the  one  who  was  in  tlie 
eentre  takes  up  her  original  position,  as  also  do  tin* 
others^  and  the  ring-  moves  on  again  with  : — 

Here's  a  bride  new  eome  hanie^ 
New  come  liame^  new  eome  hame  ; 
Here's  a  bride  new  come  hame, 
About  the  merry-ma-tanzie. 

Then  follows  "  Mary  Anderson  is  her  name,"  with  the 
usual  repeats,  and  "  Guess  ye  wha  is  her  true  love," 
"  A  bottle  o'  wine  to  tell  his  name,"  "  Andrew  Wilson 
is  his  name,"  "Honey  is  sweet  and  so  is  he,"  (or 
'^Apples  are  sour  and  so  is  he,")  "  He's  married  her  wi' 
a  gay  gold  ring,"  "  A  gay  gold  ring's  a  cank'rous  thing," 
"  But  now  they'x-e  married  we  wish  them  joy,"  "  Father 
and  mother  they  nii  /  obey,"  "  Loving  each  other  like 
sister  and  >rother,"  *  "' '  ^  pray  this  couple  may  kiss 
together,"  all,  uf  course,  sung  with  their  re})eats  as 
a^-'^vc  ;  and  the  game  may  be  played  until  every  little 
girl  ..  revealed  her  little  sweetheart's  name,  which,  to 
be  sure,  is  the  luotif  of  the  i:>lay. 

'^^The  Mulberry  Bush,"  which  goes  to  the  same  air 
as  ''  Merry-Ma-Tanzie,"  and  is  in  some  places  called 
"The  Mulberry  Tree,"  and  in  others  "The  Gooseberry 
Bush,"  is  yet  more  of  an  action  game.  The  arrange- 
ment is  again  in  a  ring,  and,  moving  round  hand-in-hand, 
all  sing : — 

Here  we  go  round  the  mulberry  bush. 
The  mulberry  bush,  the  mulberry  bush  ; 
Here  we  go  round  the  mulberry  bush. 
On  a  cold  and  frosty  morning. 


58  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

Stopping  short  with  a  curtsey  at  the  conchision  and 
disjoining  hands,  they  stand,  and  imitating  the  process 
of  hand-washing,  they  sing  : — 

This  is  the  way  we  wash  our  hands, 
Wash  our  hands,  wash  our  hands. 
This  is  the  w^ay  we  wash  our  hands. 
On  a  cold  and  frosty  morning. 

All  joining  hands  again,  they  go  round  as  before, 
singing — "  Here  we  go  round  the  mulberr}^  bush,"  and 
so  on,  which  is  repeated  regularly  after  each  action- 
verse  on  to  the  end.  The  opening  lines  of  the  action- 
verses  alone  may  be  oiven  here  to  suffffest  the  whole. 
They  are  : — 

"  This  is  the  way  we  lace  our  stays." 

''  This  is  the  way  we  comb  our  hair." 

"  This  is  the  ^vay  we  walk  to  school." 

''  This  is  the  way  we  return  from  school." 

"  This  is  the  way  the  ladies  walk." 

"  This  is  the  way  the  gentlemen  walk." 

"A  Dis,  A  Dis,  A  Green  Grass,"  is  so  simple  it  is  a 
favourite  generally  with  very  little  ladies.  And  there 
are  different  forms  of  the  game,  both  in  Scotland  and 
England,  if  not  also  in  other  countries.  The  more 
common  way,  however,  is  for  the  children  to  stand  all 
in  a  row,  and,  when  the  counting-out  rhyme  has  been 
applied  once  and  again,  the  two  who  have  been  "  hit 
out "  face  u})  together  hand-in-hand  in  front,  and, 
advancing  and  retiring,  sing  : — 

A  dis,  a  dis,  a  green  grass, 

A  dis,  a  dis,  a  dis  ; 
Come  all  ye  pretty  fair  maids. 

And  dance  along  with  us. 


CHILDREN'S    RHYMJvCJAMlvS.  .-,(> 

For  we  are  goin<»-  a-roving,, 

A-roving-  o'er  tlie  land  ; 
We'll  take  this  })retty  fair  maid^ 

We'll  take  her  by  the  hand. 

This  sung-^  they  select  a  girl  from  the  grouj),  who  joins 
on  either  side^  as  she  is  directed,  and  the  song  con- 
tinues, bearing  now  the  comforting  assurance  to  the 
one  chosen  : — 

Ye  shall  have  a  duck,  my  dear. 

And  ye  shall  have  a  beau  ; 
And  ye  shall  have  a  young  prince 

By  chance  to  marry  you. 

And  if  this  young  prince  he  should  die, 

Then  ye  w^ll  get  another ; 
And  the  birds  will  sing  and  the  bells  will  ring, 

And  w^e'll  all  clap  hands  together. 

Having  all  joined  in  the  last  two  verses,  all  claj)  hands 
together.  And  the  same  process  is  repeated  again  and 
again  until  the  last  of  the  '^^  pretty  fair  maids  "  is  taken 
over  from  the  row,  when  the  game  is  ended — though 
it  may  be  but  to  begin  again  as  the  desire  is  expressed 
and  supported. 

Some  one,  to  be  sure,  may  suggest  "  Looby-Looby," 
which  has  but  to  be  named  when  all  are  ready  and 
eager.  A  ring  is  formed,  when  all  join  hands  and 
dance  round  singing  : — 


Here  we  go  looby-looby. 
Here  we  go  looby  light 

Here  we  go  looby-looby 
Every  Saturday  night. 


60  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

Why  on  Saturday  nights  only  I  don't  know,  and  it 
would  be  futile,  I  suppose,  to  inquire.  Anyway,  with 
the  expression  of  the  last  word  they  all  instantly  disjoin 
hands,  and,  standing  each  in  her  place,  they  sing  the 
next  verse,  suiting  the  action  to  the  word  : — 

Put  your  right  hand  in. 

Take  your  right  hand  out ; 
Shake  it,  and  shake  it,  and  shake  it. 

And  turn  yourself  about. 

As  the  last  line  is  being  sung  each  one  wheels  rapidly 
round  by  herself,  then  hands  are  joined  again,  and  they 
scurry  round  in  a  ring  as  before,  singing  : — 

Here  we  go  looby-looby. 

Here  we  go  looby  light ; 
Here  we  go  looby-looby 

Every  Saturday  night, 

and  so  on,  the  "looby-looby"  coming  in  regularly 
between  each  of  the  action-verses,  which  are  varied  by 
"left  hand  in"  and  "out,"  and  "right  foot  in"  and 
"out,"  and  "left  foot  in"  and  "out,"  "noses,"  "ears," 
etc.,  etc.,  the  game  finishing  only  when  the  anatomy  of 
the  players  has  been  exhausted. 

"  I  Dree  I  Droppit  It  "  calls  for  a  mixture  of  the 
sexes,  and  when  the  numbers  are  even — ^or  as  nearly 
as  chance  affords — the  players  are  ranged  in  a  ring, 
a  boy  and  girl  alternately  facing  inwards  with  a  space 
between  each.  The  one  who  is  "chapped  out" — say 
it  is  a  girl — goes  tripping  round  the  others'  backs, 
with  a  handkerchief  dangling  in  her  hand,  singing  the 
while  : — 


CHILD RflN'S    RHYME-GAM KS.  (ii 

I  sent  a  letter  to  iiiy  love, 

And  by  the  way  I  {lropj)it  it, 

I  dree,  I  dree,  I  dro})j)it  it, 

I  dree,  I  dree,  I  drojipit  it ; 
I  sent  a  letter  to  my  love. 

And  by  the  way  I  dro})})it  it. 

There's  a  wee,  w^ee  doggie  in  our  eot-neuk, 

He'll  no  bite  you,  he'll  no  bite  you  ; 
There's  a  wee,  wee  doggie  in  our  cot-neuk. 

He'll  no  bite  you — nor  you — nor  you — nor  you, 

and  so  forth,  until  at  length  she  drops  the  handker- 
chief stealthily  at  the  heel  of  one  of  the  little  boys, 
saying  "but  you,"  and  bolts  round  this  player,  round 
that  one,  in  here,  out  there,  and  away  !  And  the  boy, 
who  has  first  to  pick  up  the  handkerchief,  gives  chase, 
pursuing  her  exactly  in  the  course  which  she  may 
choose  to  take.  If  he  makes  a  wrong  turn,  by  that 
fact  he  is  "out,"  and  must  take  her  place;  but  if  he 
pursues  her  correctly  and  overtakes  her,  he  may  claim 
a  kiss  for  his  pains,  for  which  heroism  he  will  receive 
the  applause  of  the  crowd  ;  and  the  girl — suffused  with 
blushes,  as  it  may  be — must  try  and  try  again — indeed, 
try  until  she  proves  herself  more  agile  than  her 
pursuer,  whom,  of  course,  she  is  always  free  to  choose. 
When  at  length — as  come  it  will  some  time — her  effort 
is  successful,  she  takes  her  victim's  })lace  in  the  ring, 
and  he  takes  hers  on  the  outside  of  it.  And  thus  the 
play  may  go  on — boy  and  girl  about — as  long  as  time 
and  energy  will  permit. 

As  for  "Bab  at  the  Bowster  "  (more  generally 
pronouMced  "  Babbity  Bowster"),  I  am  not  sure  but 
that  grown  people  have  engaged  in  it  more  than  wee 


62  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

folks  have.  Indeed^  it  is  not  improbable  that  the 
young  borrowed  this  originally  from  the  old,  by  observ- 
ation. Now-a-days,  undoubtedly,  we  know  it  exclus- 
ively as  a  child's  play.  But  yet,  within  the  memory 
of  living  men,  it  was  the  regular  custom  in  country 
places  nearly  over  all  Scotland  to  wind  up  every 
dancing-ball  with  "  Bab  at  the  Bowster."  No  wedding 
dance,  no  Handsel  Monday  ball,  would  have  been 
esteemed  complete  without  it  ;  and  I  have  seen  it 
performed  at  both,  less  than  forty  jxars  ago.  Per- 
formed by  old  or  young,  however,  the  mode  is  the 
same.  The  girls  sit  down  on  one  side  of  the  barn  or 
square,  the  boys  on  the  other.  A  boy  takes  a  handker- 
chief— it  is  regularly  a  male  who  starts  this  play — 
and  while  dancing  up  and  down  before  the  girls,  all 
sing  : — 

Wha  learned  you  to  dance, 

Bab  at  the  bowster,  bab  at  the  bowster  ; 
Wha  learned  you  to  dance, 

Bab  at  the  bowster  brawly  ? 

My  minnie  learned  me  to  dance, 

Bab  at  the  bowster,  bab  at  the  bowster  ; 

My  minnie  learned  me  to  dance, 
Bab  at  the  bowster  brawly. 

Wha  ga'e  you  the  keys  to  keep, 

Bab  at  the  bowster,  bab  at  the  bowster  ; 

Wha  ga'e  you  the  keys  to  keep, 
Bab  at  the  bowster  brawly  ? 

My  minnie  ga'e  me  the  keys  to  keep, 
Bab  at  the  bowster,  bab  at  the  bowster  ; 

My  minnie  ga'e  me  the  keys  to  keej), 
Bab  at  the  bowster  brawly. 


CHILDREN'S    UHVMK-(;A.M1:S.  fj;} 

Kneel  down  and  kiss  tlie  ground, 
Kiss  the  ground,  kiss  tlie  orouiid  ; 

Kneel  down  and  kiss  the  ground. 
Kiss  the  bonnie  wee  lassie. 

By  the  time  the  last  verse  has  been  reached  the  boy 
has  fixed  on  his  partner,  and  at  the  eonnnand  to 
"  kneel  down  and  kiss  the  ground  "  he  spreads  tile 
handkerchief  on  the  floor  at  the  girl's  feet,  on  which 
both  immediately  kneel.  A  kiss  ensues,  even  though 
it  should  be  obtained  after  a  struggle  ;  then  the  l)oy 
marches  away  round  and  round  followed  by  the  girl, 
while  all  again  sing  the  song.  By  the  time  the  last 
verse  is  again  reached,  the  girl  in  turn  has  selected 
the  next  boy,  but  does  not  kneel  down  before  him. 
She  simply  throws  the  handkerchief  in  his  lap,  and 
inmiediately  joins  her  ow^n  partner  by  taking  his  arm. 
If,  however,  she  can  be  overtaken  before  she  joins  her 
partner,  a  penalty  kiss  may  be  enforced.  Second  boy 
selects  second  girl  as  the  first  did  the  first  girl,  and 
pair  after  jiair  is  formed  in  the  same  fashion  until  all 
are  up  and  marching  arm-in-arm  round  the  room,  or 
square,  when  the  game  is  finished.  At  adult  assem- 
blies, I  should  state,  even  as  the  company  paired  in  this 
dance,  they  departed  for  home, 

"  The  Wadds  "  is  another  game  in  which  grown 
folks  no  less  than  children  may  engage,  and  wliich,  like 
"  Bab  at  the  Bowster,"  is  essentially  a  house  game. 
Its  mode  is  for  the  players  to  be  seated  round  the 
hearth,  the  lasses  on  one  side  and  the  lads  on  tlie 
other.      One  of  the  lads  first  chants  :    - 

O,  it's  hame,  and  its  hame,  it's  hame,  hame,  hame, 
I  think  this  nicht  I  maun  gang  hame. 


64  childrp:n's  RHYME-GAMES. 

To  wliich  one  of  the  opposite  party  responds  : — 

Ye  had  better  hcht^  and  bide  a'  nicht^ 

And  I'll  choose  ye  a  partner  bonnie  and  bricht. 

The  first  speaker  again  says  : — 

Then  wha  wad  ye  choose  an'  I  wad  bide  ? 

Answer  : — 

The  fairest  and  best  in  a'  the  countryside. 

At  the  same  time  })resenting  a  female  and  mentioning 
her  name.  If  the  choice  is  satisfactory,  the  male 
player  will  say  : — 

I'll  set  her  up  on  the  bonnie  pear  tree. 
It's  straucht  and  tall  and  sae  is  she  ; 
I  wad  wauk  a'  nicht  her  love  to  be. 

If,  however,  the  choice  is  not  satisfactory,  he  may 
reply  : — 

I'll  set  her  up  on  the  auld  fael  dyke. 

Where  she  may  rot  ere  I  be  ripe  ; 

The  corbies  her  auld  banes  wadna  j^yke. 

Or  (if  the  maiden  be  of  surly  temper)  : — 

I'll  set  her  up  on  the  high  crab-tree, 

It's  sour  and  dour,  and  sae  is  she  ; 

She  may  gang  to  the  mools  unkissed  for  me. 

But  he  may  decline  civilly,  by  saying  : — ■ 

She's  for  another,  she's  no  for  me, 
I  thank  ye  for  your  courtesie. 

A  similar  ritual  is  gone  through  with  respect  to  one  of 
the  gentler  sex,  where  such  rhymes  as  the  following 


CHILDREN'S    RHYMK-CiAM  KS.  (J:, 

are    used.       In    the    ease    of  a('ee|)tancc    the    l;i(l\     will 

say  : — 

I'll  set  him  u])  at  my  table-head. 

And  feed  liim  there  wi'  milk  and  hrrad. 

Whereas^,  if  the  projiosal  is  not  agreeable,  her  r())ly 
may  be  : — 

I'll  put  him  on  a  riddle,  and  blaw   him   owrc   the 

sea, 
Wha  will  buy  [Jamie  Paterson]  for  me  ? 

Or:— 

I'll  set  him  up  on  a  high  lum-heid, 

And  blaw  'im  in  the  air  wi'  })oother  and  lead. 

A  refusal  on  either  side  must,  of  course,  be  atoned  for 
by  a  "wadd/'  or  forfeit — which  may  consist  of  a  ])iecc 
of  money,  a  knife,  a  thimble,  or  any  little  article  which 
the  owner  finds  convenient  for  the  })ur})Ose.  Then, 
when  a  sufficient  number  of  persons  have  made  forfeits, 
tlie  business  of  redeeming  them  commences,  which  may 
afford  any  amount  of  amusement.  He,  or  she,  as  the 
case  happens,  may  be  ordered  to  "  kiss  the  four  corners 
of  the  room  ;  "  "  bite  an  inch  off  tlie  poker ;  "  "  kneel 
to  the  prettiest,  bow  to  the  wittiest,  and  kiss  the  one 
lie  (or  she)  loves  best,"  or  any  one  of  a  dozen  similarly 
silly  ordeals,  as  the  doomster  jiroposes,  may  have  to 
be  gone  through.  When  the  forfeits  have  all  been 
redeemed  the  game  is  ended. 

Similar  to  the  foregoing,  in  some  res])ects,  is  "  The 
Wadds  and  the  Wears,"  which  John  Mactaggart,  the 
writer  of  The  Gallovidian  Km-i/clopa'dia,  describes  as 
(in  his  day)  "  the  most  celebrated  anuisement  of  the 
ingle-ring  "  in  the  south-west  of  Scotland.     As  in  the 


66  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

"  Wadds/'    the   players   are   seated   round  the   hearth. 
One  in  the  ring  (says  Mactaggart),  speaks  as  follows  : — 

I  hae  been  awa'  at  the  wadds  and  the  wears^ 
These  seven  lang  years  ; 

And's  come  hame  a  piiir  broken  ploughman  ; 
What  will  ye  gie  me  to  help  me  to  my  trade  ? 

He  may  either  say  he's  a  '^  puir  broken  ploughman/' 
or  any  other  trade  ;  but  since  he  has  chosen  that  trade, 
some  of  the  articles  belonging  to  it  must  always  be 
given  or  offered,  in  order  to  recruit  him.  But  the 
article  he  most  w^ants  he  jn'ivately  tells  one  of  the 
party,  who  is  not  allowed,  of  course,  to  offer  him  any- 
thing, as  he  knows  the  thing,  w^iich  will  throw  the 
offerer  in  a  wadd,  and  must  be  avoided  as  much  as 
possible — for  to  be  in  a  wadd  is  a  very  serious  matter, 
as  shall  afterwards  be  explained.  Now  the  one  on  the 
left  hand  of  the  poor  ploughman  makes  the  first  offer, 
by  way  of  answ^er  to  what  above  was  said  :  "^  I'll  gie  ye 
a  coidter  to  help  ye  to  your  trade." 

The  ploughman  answers,  "  I  don't  thank  ye  for  your 
coulter,  I  hae  ane  already."  Then  another  offers  him 
another  article  belonging  to  the  ploughman's  business, 
such  as  the  viool-hrod,  but  this  also  is  refused  ;  another, 
perhaps,  gives  the  sock,  another  the  stilts,  another  the 
spattle,  another  the  naigs,  another  the  naig-graiik,  and  so 
on  ;  until  one  gives  the  soam,  w^hich  was  the  article  he 
most  wanted,  and  was  the  thing  secretly  told  to  one, 
and  is  the  thing  that  throws  the  giver  in  a  wadd,  out  of 
w  hich  he  is  relieved  in  the  following  manner  : — 

The  j)loughman  says  to  the  one  in  the  wadd, 
"  Whether  will  ye  hae  three  questions  and  twa  com- 
mands, or  three  commands  and  twa  questions,  to  answer 
or  gang  on  wi',  sae  that  ye  may  win  oot  o'  the  wadd  ?  " 


n 


CHILDRKN'S    KHVM  IvCA.M  I :s.  f,7 

For  the  one  so  fixed  has  always  the  choice  whidi  (.f 
these  alternatives  to  take.  Su})})osc  he  takes  the  first, 
two  commands  and  three  questions,  then  a  s))eeiiiieii  of 
these  may  run  so  : — 

"1  command  ye  to  kiss  the  crook,"  savs  the  i)l()iii;h- 
man,  which  nuist  be  completely  obeyed  bv  tlie  one  in 
the  wadd — his  naked  lips  must  salute  the  .voo///  ini|)K- 
ment. 

"Secondly,"  saith  the  ploughman,  "I  command  ye 
to  stand  u])  in  that  neuk,  and  say — 

'  Here  stan'  I,  as  stiffs  a  stake^ 
Wha'll  kiss  me  for  pity's  sake  ?  '  " 

Which  must  also  be  done  ;  in  a  corner  of  the  house 
must  he  stand  and  repeat  that  couplet,  till  some  tender- 
hearted lass  relieves  him.  Now  for  the  questions  which 
are  most  deeply  laid,  or  so  touching  to  him,  that  he  finds 
much  difficulty  to  answer  them. 

"  Firstly,  then,  Suppose  ye  w  ere  sittin'  aside  Maggie 
Lowden  and  Jennie  Logan,  your  twa  great  sweethearts, 
what  ane  o'm  wad  ye  ding  ower^  and  what  ane  wad  ye 
turn  to  and  clap  and  cuddle  }  "  He  makes  answer  by 
choosing  Maggie  Lowden,  perha})S,  to  the  great  mirth 
of  the  })arty. 

"  Secondly,  then,  Su})pose  \o\i  were  standin'  oot  i' 
the  cauld,  on  the  tap  o'  Cairnhattie,  whether  wad  ye 
cry  on  Peggie  Kirtle  or  Nell  o'  Killimingie  to  come  wi' 
your  plaid  ?  " 

He  answers  again  in  a  similar  maimer. 

"  Lastly,  then.  Suppose  you  were  in  a  boat  wi'  Tibbie 
Tait,  Mary  Kairnie,  Sallie  Snadrap,  and  Kate  o'  Min- 
nieive,  and  it  was  to  cowp  wi'  ye,  what  ane  o'm  wad 
ye  sink  ?  what  ane  wad  ye  soom  ?  wha  wad  ye  bring  to 
Ian'  ?   and  wha  wad  ye   marry  }  "       Then    he  answers 


68  CHILDRI:N'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

again^  to  the  fiiii  of  the  company^  jjerhaps^  in  this  way, 
"  I  wad  sink  Mary  Kairnie,  soom  Tibbie  Tait,  bring; 
Sallie  Snadrap  aneath  my  oxter  to  Ian',  and  marry 
sweet  Kate  o'  Minnieive." 

And  so  ends  that  bout  at  the  wadds  and  the  wears. 

But  the  games  engaged  in  exchisively  by  the  "  wee 
folks  "  are  the  really  delightsome  ones.  Such  is  "  The 
Widow  of  Babylon,"  the  ritual  of  which,  less  elaborate, 
resembles  that  of  "  Merry-Ma-Tanzie,"  though  the 
rhymes  are  different.  Girls  only  play  here.  One  is 
chosen  for  the  centre.  The  others,  with  hands  joined, 
form  a  ring  about  her,  and  move  round  briskly,  sing- 
ing :— 

Here's  a  poor  widow  from  Babylon, 

With  six  poor  children  all  alone  ; 

One  can  bake,  and  one  can  brew. 

One  can  shape,  and  one  can  sew. 

One  can  sit  at  the  fire  and  spin. 

One  can  bake  a  cake  for  the  king  ; 

Come  choose  you  east,  come  choose  you  west, 

Come  choose  the  one  that  you  love  best. 

The  girl  in  the  middle  chooses  one  from  the  ring, 
naming  her,  and  sings  : — 

I  choose  the  fairest  that  I  do  see, 
[Jeanie  Anderson]  come  to  me. 

The  girl  chosen  enters  the  ring,  communicating  the 
name  of  her  sweetheart,  when  those  in  the  ring  resume 
their  lightsome  motion,  and  sing  : — 

Now  they  are  married,  I  wish  them  joy, 
P^very  year  a  girl  or  boy  ; 
Loving  each  other  like  sister  and  brother, 
I  pray  this  couple  may  kiss  together. 


CHILDREN'S    UHYMK-CAMIvS.  (i|) 

Tlie  girls  within  tlu-  rino-  kiss.  Tlic  one  who  (irst 
occupied  the  circle  then  joins  the  rino-,  while  the  last 
to  come  in  enacts  the  ])art  of  mistress;  and  so  on  the 
oame  aoes  until  all  liave  had  their  turn. 

"  London  Bridgp:  "  is  a  well-known  and  widely 
played  game,  though  here  and  there  with  slightly 
differing  rhymes.  Two  children — the  tallest  and 
strongest;,  as  a  rule — standing  face  to  face,  hold  up  their 
hands,  making  the  form  of  an  arch.  The  others  form 
a  long  line  by  holding  on  to  eacli  other's  dresses,  and 
run  under.  Those  running  sing  the  first  verse,  while 
the  ones  forming  the  arch  sing  the  second,  and  alternate 
verses,  of  the  following  rhyme  : — 

London  bridge  is  fallen  down, 

Fallen  down,  fallen  down  ; 
London  bridge  is  fallen  down. 

My  fair  lady. 

Question. — What  will  it  take  to  build  it  up? 

(With  repeats.) 
Answer. — Needles  and  })reens  will  build  it  u)). 
Question. — Needles  and  preens  will  rust  and  bend. 
Answer. — Silver  and  gold  will  build  it  up. 
Question. — Silver  and  gold  will  be  stolen  away. 
Answer. — Build  it  u})  with  penny  loaves. 
Question. — Penny  loaves  will  tumble  down. 
Answer. — Bricks  and  mortar  will  build  it  uj). 
Question. — Bricks  and  mortar  will  w^ash  away. 
Answer. — We  will  set  a  dog  to  bark. 
Question. — Here's  a  prisoner  we  have  got. 

At  the  words  "  a  prisoner,"  the  two  forming  the  areh 
apprehend  the  passing  one  in  the  line.  and.  holding  her 
fast,  the  dialogue  resumes  : — 


70  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

Answer. — Here's  a  prisoner  we  have  got. 
Question. — What's  the  prisoner  done  to  you  ? 
Answer. — Stole  my  watcli  and  broke  my  chain. 
Question. — What  will  you  take  to  set  him  free  } 
Answer. — A  hundred  pounds  will  set  him  free. 
Question. — A  hundred  pounds  I  have  not  got. 
Answer. — Then  off  to  prison  you  must  go. 

Following  this  declaration,  the  prisoner  is  led  a  dis- 
tance away  from  the  rest  by  her  jailers^  where  the 
questions  are  put  to  her^  whether  she  will  choose  "  a 
gold  watch/'  or  "a  diamond  necklace."  As  she 
decides  she  goes  to  the  one  side  or  the  other.  When, 
in  like  manner,  all  in  the  line  have  chosen,  a  tug-of-war 
ensues,  and  the  game  is  ended. 

"  The  Jolly  Miller." — In  this  the  players  take 
partners — all  except  the  miller,  who  takes  his  stand  in 
the  middle,  while  his  companions  walk  round  him  in 
couples,  singing  : — 

There  was  a  jolly  miller,  who  lived  by  himself. 
As  the  wheel  w^ent  round  he  made  his  wealth  ; 
One  hand  in  the  hopper,  and  the  other  in  the  bag. 
As  the  wheel  went  round  he  made  his  grab. 

At  the  word  "grab,"  every  one  must  change  partners. 
The  miller  then  has  the  opj^ortunity  of  seizing  one  : 
and  if  he  succeeds  in  so  doing,  the  one  necessarily  left 
alone  must  take  his  place,  and  so  on. 

"Willie  Wastle  "  is  essentially  a  boy's  game.  One 
standing  on  a  hillock  or  large  boulder,  from  wliich 
he  defies  the  efforts  of  his  companions  to  dislodge  him, 
exclaims,  by  w^ay  of  challenge  : — 


cHiLDRKX's  rhvmk-c;amks.  n 

I,  Willie  Wastle, 

Stand  on  my  castle, 

And  a'  the  dogs  o'  your  toim, 

Will  no  ding  Willie  Wastle  doiiii. 

The  boy  who  succeeds  in  dislodoini)  him  takes  his 
place,  and  so  on. 

"Oats  and  Beans  and  Barley,"  a  simple  but  ])retty 
game,  is  played  all  over  England,  as  well  as  in  most 
parts  of  Scotland,  with  varying  rhymes.  In  Perthshire 
the  lines  run  : — 

Oats  and  beans  and  barlev  ffrows, 
Oats  and  beans  and  barlev  grows  ; 
But  you  nor  I  nor  nobody  knows 
How  oats  and  beans  and  barley  grows. 
First  the  farmer  sows  his  seeds. 
Then  he  stands  and  takes  his  ease ; 
Stamps  his  feet,  and  claps  his  hands^ 
Then  turns  around  to  view  his  lands. 

Waiting  for  a  })artner. 

Waiting  for  a  partner  ; 
Open  the  ring  and  take  one  in. 

And  kiss  her  in  the  centre. 

The  players  form  a  ring  by  joining  hands.  One  child 
— usually  a  boy — stands  in  the  middle.  The  ring 
moving  round,  sing  the  first  four  lines.  These  ct)m- 
pleted,  the  ring  stands,  and  still  singing,  each  })layer 
gives  suitable  action  to  the  succeeding  words  ;  showing 
how  the  "farmer  sows  his  seeds,"  and  how  he  "stands 
and  takes  his  ease/'  etc.  At  the  tenth  line  all  wheel 
round.     They  then  re-join  hands,  still  singing,  and  at 


72  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

the  words^  ''  Open  the  ring  and  take  one  in/'  the  child 
in  the  middle  chooses  from  the  ring  a  partner  (a  girl, 
of  course),  whom  he  leads  to  the  centre  and  kisses  as 
requested.  The  two  stand  there  together,  while  the 
ring,  moving  again,  sing  the  marriage  formula  : — 

Xow  you're  married,  you  must  obey. 
Must  be  true  to  all  you  say  ; 
You  must  be  kind,  you  must  be  good. 
And  help  your  wife  to  chop  the  wood. 

"  HoRNiE  Holes"  is  a  boys'  game  in  which  four 
play,  a  })rincipal  and  assistant  on  either  side.  A  stands 
with  his  assistant  at  one  hole,  and  throws  what  is  called 
a  "cat"  (a  piece  of  stick,  or  a  sheep's  horn),  with  the 
design  of  making  it  alight  into  another  hole  at  some 
distance,  at  which  B  stands,  with  his  assistant,  to  drive 
it  aside  with  his  rod  resembling  a  walking-stick.  The 
following  unintelligible  rhyme  is  repeated  by  a  player 
on  the  one  side,  while  they  on  the  other  are  gathering 
in  the  "cats."  This  is  attested  by  old  people  as  of 
great  antiquity  : — 

Jock,  S})eak,  and  Sandy, 

Wi'  a'  their  lousie  train. 
Round  about  by  Edinbro', 
Will  never  meet  again. 
Gae  head  'im,  gae  hang  'im, 

Gae  lay  him  in  the  sea  ; 
A'  the  birds  o'  the  air 
Will  bear  'im  companie. 
With  a  nig-nag,  widdy — (or  worry)  bag. 
And  an  e'endown  trail,  trail. 
Quo'  he. 


CHILDRFA'S    HHVM  K-CAMKS.  T.S 

The  Craw  admits  of  a  good  deal  ol"  li\(l\  exercise, 
involving,  as  Dr.  Chambers  remarks,  no  more  tliaii  a 
reasonable  portion  of  violence.  One  boy  is  selected  to 
be  craw.  He  sits  down  n])on  the  ground,  and  he  and 
another  boy  then  lay  hold  of  the  two  ends  of  a  long 
stra})  or  twisted  handkerchief.  The  latter  also  takes 
into  his  right  hand  another  hard-twisted  handkerchief, 
called  the  Coui,  and  runs  round  the  craw,  and  with  the 
cout  defends  him  against  the  attack  of  tiie  other  bovs, 
who,  with  similar  couts^  use  all  their  agility  to  get  a 
slap  at  the  craw.  But,  before  beginning,  the  guard  of 
the  craw  must  er}'  out  : — 

Ane,  twa,  three — my  eraw's  free. 

And  the  first  whom  he  strikes  becomes  craw,  the 
former  craw  then  becoming  guard.  When  the  guard 
w  ants  respite,  he  must  cry  : — 

Ane,  twa,  three — my  craw's  no  free. 

"  Neevie-neevie-nick-nack," — A  lottery  game,  and 
confined  to  boys,  is  of  simple  movement,  but  convenient 
in  this — that  only  two  jilayers  are  required.  They 
stand  facing  each  other,  the  leader  whirling  his  two 
closed  fists,  one  containing  a  prize,  the  other  empty, 
Avhile  he  cajoles  his  opponent  with  the  rhyme^ 

Neevie-neevie-nick-nack, 
Whilk  hand  will  ye  tak' — 
The  richt  ane  or  the  wTang, 
I'll  beguile  ye  gin  I  can  } 

If  he  guesses  correctly,  he  gains  the  })rize.  If  he 
misses,  he  has  to  equal  the  stake.  Until  success  falls 
to  the  second,  the  original  j)layer  continues  the  lead. 

/  6    ' 


74  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMP:S. 

•^•^  Blind  Man's  Buff/'  though  not  a  rhyme-game,  is 
yet  so  well  known  it  is  worth  mentioning  for  the  mere 
purpose  of  telling  its  story.  Like  many  more  such — if 
we  only  knew  how — it  is  based  on  fact.  It  is  of  French 
origin,  and  of  very  great  antiquity,  having  been  intro- 
duced into  Britain  in  the  train  of  the  Norman  con- 
querors. Its  French  name,  "  Colin  Maillard,"  was  that 
of  a  brave  warrior,  the  memory  of  whose  exploits  still 
lives  in  the  chronicles  of  the  Middle  Ages. 

In  the  year  999  Liege  reckoned  among  its  valiant 
chiefs  one  Jean  Colin.  He  acquired  the  name  Maillard 
from  his  chosen  weapon  being  a  mallet,  wherewith  in 
battle  he  used  literally  to  crush  his  oj)ponents. 

In  one  of  the  feuds  which  were  of  jjerpetual  recurrence 
in  those  times,  he  encountered  the  Count  de  Lourain  in 
a  pitched  battle,  and — so  runs  the  story — in  the  first 
onset  Colin  Maillard  lost  both  his  eyes. 

He  ordered  his  esquire  to  take  him  into  the  thickest 
of  the  fight,  and,  furiously  brandishing  his  mallet,  did 
such  fearful  execution  that  victory  soon  declared  itself 
for  him. 

When  Robert  of  France  heard  of  these  feats  of  arms, 
he  lavished  favour  and  honours  upon  Colin,  and  so 
great  was  the  fame  of  the  exploit  that  it  was  com- 
memorated in  the  pantomimic  representations  that 
formed  part  of  the  rude  dramatic  performances  of  the 
age.  By  degrees  the  children  learned  to  act  it  for 
themselves,  and  it  took  the  form  of  a  familiar  sport. 

The  blindfold  })ursuer,  as  with  bandaged  eyes  and 
extended  hands  he  gropes  for  a  victim  to  jjounce  upon, 
seems  in  some  degree  to  repeat  the  action  of  Colin 
Maillard,  the  tradition  of  which  is  also  traceable  in  the 
name,  "blind  man's  buff." 


CHILDKKXS    HHV.Mi:-(;AMi:s.  7:, 

"Water  Wallflower."  —  All  slioiild  know  tins 
game^  which  is  more  commonly  played  by  very  small 
misses. 

Formiii*;-  a  rin<j-^  all  join  hands  and  dance,  or  move 
slowly  round,  sinoino; : — 

Water,  water  wallflower,  growing-  uj)  so  high, 
We  are  all  maidens,  and  we  must  all  die, 
Excepting  [Nellie  Newton],  the  youngest  of  us  all, 
She  can  dance  and  she  can  sing,  and  she  can  knock 
us  all  down. 

Here  all  claj)  hands,  with  the  exception  of  the  one 
named,  who  stands  looking  abashed,  while  the  others 
sing  : — 

Fie,  fie,  fie,  for  shame. 

Turn  your  back  to  the  wall  again. 

At  the  command,  she  who  has  been  named  turns,  so 
that  she  faces  outwards  now,  with  her  back  to  the 
centre  of  the  ring  ;  though  she  still  clas])S  hands  with 
those  on  either  side,  and  continues  in  the  moyement, 
singing  with  the  others.  When  all  in  like  manner 
have  been  chapped  out,  and  are  facing  the  oi)en,  the 
srame  is  finished. 


"  The  E,mperor  Napoleon  "  is  a  little  game  which 
affords,  inyariably,  a  good  deal  of  fun.  Again,  as  so 
commonly,  the  form  is  in  a  ring,  and  all  go  round, 
singing; : — 

The  Emperor  Napoleon  has  a  hundred  thousand  men. 
The  Emperor  Napoleon  has  a  hundred  thousand  men, 
The  Emperor  Napoleon  has  a  hundred  thousand  men. 
As  he  goes  marching  along. 


76  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

In  each  successive  singing  of  the  verse,  one  syllable 
after  another  in  the  main  line,  beginning  at  the  far 
end,  is  left  out — or  at  least  is  not  spoken — the  blank, 
or  blanks,  as  it  happens  latterly,  having  to  be  indicated 
merely  by  nods  of  the  head.  As  each  player  makes  a 
mistake,  by  speaking,  instead  of  nodding,  or  vice  versa, 
she  pays  a  forfeit  and  drops  out.  The  play  goes  on 
till  all  have  fallen. 

"A'  THE  Birdies  i'  the  Air,"  purely  Scotch,  is  a 
simpler  form  merely  of  ''  London  Bridge."  Two 
players,  facing  each  other,  hold  up  their  hands  to  form 
an  arch,  and  call  the  formula  : — 

A'  the  birdies  i'  the  air 
Tick-to  to  my  tail. 

The  others,  who  may  be  running  about  indiiferently, 
decide  in  time  which  side  they  will  favour,  and  when 
each  and  all  have  chosen  which  cham])ion  they  will 
support,  and  have  taken  their  places  at  her  back,  a 
tug-of-war  ensues.  Afterwards  the  victors  chase  the 
vanquished,  calling,  "  Rotten  eggs  !  rotten  eggs  !  "  and 
the  game  is  ended  ;  to  be  followed  perhaps  by 

"Through  the  Needle-e'e,  Boys,"  played  also  to 
some  extent  in  the  form  of  "  London  Bridge,"  and 
much  resembling  "Barley  Break,"  a  i)astime  of  high- 
born lords  and  ladies  in  the  time  of  Sir  Philip  Sydney, 
who  describes  it  in  his  Arcadia.  The  boys  first  choose 
sides.  The  two  chosen  leaders  join  both  hands,  and 
raising  them  high  enough  to  let  the  others  pass  through 
below,  they  sing  : — 


CHILDHFA'S    HIIVMIvCA.MI'.S.  77 

Brotlier  [.loliii],  it'  vf'll  he  uiiiic, 
I'll  gie  you  a  olass  o'  wiiR-  : 
A  olass  o'  wine  is  good  and  fint-, 
Throiigii  the  nt'edlc-e'e,  hoys. 

Letting  their  arms  fall,  they  enelose  a  boy,  and  ask 
him  to  which  side  he  will  belong,  and  he  is  disposed 
according  to  his  own  decision.  The  ])arties  being  at 
length  formed,  are  separated  by  a  real  or  iniaginary 
line,  and  place  at  some  distance  behind  them,  in  a 
heap,  their  jackets,  caps,  etc.  They  stand  opj)osite  to 
each  other^  the  object  being  to  make  a  successful 
incursion  over  the  line  into  the  enemy's  country,  and 
bring  off  ])art  or  w^hole  of  the  heap  of  clothes.  It 
requires  address  and  swiftness  of  foot  to  do  so  without 
being  taken  prisoner  by  the  foe.  The  winning  of  the 
game  is  decided  by  which  })arty  first  loses  all  its  men 
or  all  its  proj)erty.  At  Hawick,  where  this  legendary 
mimicry  of  old  Border  warfare  peculiarly  flourishes, 
the  boys  are  accustomed  to  use  the  following  lines  of 
defiance  : — 

King  Covenanter,  come  out  if  ye  daur  venture  ! 
Set  your  feet  on  Scots  ground,  P'.nglish,  if  ye  daur  I 

"  King  Henry  "  somewhat  resembles  "  I  dree  I 
droppit  it  ;  "  only,  instead  of  standing,  the  girls 
forming  the  ring  sit,  or  rather  crouch  in  a  sort  of 
working-tailor  attitude.  One  girl,  occuj)ying  the  centre, 
is  "  it."  A  second  girl  is  on  the  outside.  Immediately 
the  ring  begins  singing  the  rhyme  : — 

King  Henry^  King  Henry, 

Run,  boys,  run  ; 
You,  with  the  red  coat. 

Follow  with  the  drum^ 


78  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

the  one  on  the  outside  is  pursued  by  the  girl  from  the 
centre.  The  rhyme  may  be  repeated  as  often  as  the 
ring  decides  ;  but  the  object  of  the  one  who  is  "  it  "  is 
to  overtake  and  "tig"  the  other  before  the  singing 
ceases.  Otherwise  she  remains  unreheved,  and  must 
try^  and  try,  until  she  succeeds  in  getting  out,  and 
putting  another  in  her  place  ;  and  so  on. 

"The  Blue  Bird/'  played  by  very  small  children,  is 
rather  pretty.     The  rhyme  is  : — 

Here  comes  a  [blue]  bird  through  the  window, 
Here  comes  a  [blue]  bird  through  the  door  ; 
Here  comes  a  [blue]  bird  through  the  window, 

Hey,  diddle,  hi  dum,  day. 
Take  a  little  dance  and  a  hop  in  the  corner. 
Take  a  little  dance  and  a  hop  in  the  floor ; 
Take  a  little  dance  and  a  hop  in  the  corner. 

Hey,  diddle,  hi  dum,  day. 

The  players  dance  round  in  a  ring.  One  previously, 
by  the  process  of  a  chapping-out  rhyme,  being  made 
*^^it,"  goes  first  outside,  then  into  the  centre.  Her 
business  now  is  to  decide  who  shall  succeed  her  ;  and 
according  as  the  colour-word  in  the  rhyme — red,  blue, 
green,  or  yellow,  etc. — corresponds  with  the  dress  of 
all  the  individual  players  in  the  successive  singing,  the 
ones  spotted  successively  take  their  place  in  the  centre, 
and  the  process  goes  on,  of  course,  until  all  have  shared 
alike  in  the  game. 

"When   I   was  a  Young  Thing,"   of  simple  though 
pretty  action,  has  had  a  w  ide  vogue.      Its  rhyme  goes  : — 

When  I  was  a  young  thing, 
A  young  thing,  a  young  thing  ; 


CHILDRF.X'S    RHYMK-(;AM1:s.  Tf, 

When  I  was  a  youiio-  thiiio. 

How  liap])y  was  1. 
'Twas  this  way,  and  tliat  way, 
And  this  way,  and  tliat  way  ; 
When  I  was  a  young  thing. 

Oh,  this  way  went  I. 

When  I  w^as  a  school-girl,  etc. 
When  I  was  a  teacher,  etc. 
•     When  I  had  a  sweetheart,  etc. 
When  I  had  a  husband,  etc. 
When  I  had  a  baby,  etc. 
When  I  had  a  donkey,  etc. 
When  I  took  in  washing,  etc. 
When  my  baby  died,  oh  died,  etc. 
When  my  husband  died,  etc. 

The  players,  joining  hands,  form  a  ring,  and  dance  or 
walk  round  singing  the  words,  and  kee})ing  tlie  ring 
form  until  the  end  of  the  fourth  line  in  each  successive 
verse,  when  they  unclasp,  and  stand  still.  Each  child 
then  takes  hold  of  her  skirt  and  dances  individually  to 
the  right  and  left^  making  two  or  three  steps.  Then 
all  walk  round  singly,  singing  the  second  four  lines,  and 
making  suitable  action  to  the  words  as  thev  sing  and 
go  :  the  same  form  being  continued  throughout. 


Still  simpler  is  "Carry  mv  Lady  to  London."  In 
this  game  two  children  cross  hands  gras))ing  each 
other's  wrists  and  their  own  as  well — thus  forming  a 
seat,  on  which  a  third  child  can  be  carried.  When 
hoisted  and  in  order,  the  bearers  stc])  out  singing  : — 


80  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

Gie  me  a  needle  to  stick  i'  my  thoom 

To  carry  my  lady  to  London  ; 
London  Bridge  is  broken  down. 

And  I  must  let  my  lady  down. 

Each  child  is  thus  carried  in  turn. 

"ABC"  is  a  spirited  game,  admirably  adapted  for 
indoor  practice  on  a  wet  day,  w^hich  is  played  by  child- 
ren seated  round  a  table,  or  at  the  fireside.  One  sings 
a  solo — a  verse  of  some  nursery  rhyme.     For  instance  : 

Hey,  diddle,  diddle. 

The  cat  and  the  fiddle. 
The  cow  jumped  over  the  moon  ; 

The  little  dog  laughed 

To  see  such  sport. 
And  the  dish  ran  away  with  the  spoon. 

The  chorus  of  voices  takes  up  the  tune,  and  the  solo  is 
repeated  ;  after  which  the  alphabet  is  sung  through, 
and  the  last  letter,  Z,  is  sustained  and  repeated  again 
and  again,  to  bother  the  next  child,  whose  turn  it  now 
is  to  sing  the  next  solo.  The  new  solo  must  be  a 
nursery  rhyme  not  hitherto  sung  by  any  of  the  com- 
pany. If  unable  to  supply  a  fresh  rhyme  wdthin  a 
fixed  limit,  the  player  stands  out  of  the  game  and 
pays  a  forfeit.  Less  brain-taxing  entertainments  often 
engage  adult  wits. 

"My  Theerie  and  my  Thorie,"  with  a  political 
significance,  is  a  game  widely  played.  In  one  place  it 
is  known  as  "  Cam  a  teerie  arrie  ma  torry ;  "  in  another, 
"Come  a  theory,  oary  mathorie ; "  in  yet  another, 
"Come  a  theerie.  Come  a  thorie  ; "  or  it  may  be,  as  in 
Perthshire,  "  My  theerie  and  my  thorie."     And  even  as 


CHILDRFA'S    RHV.MK-CAMI'.S.  si 

the  refrain  varies^  so  do  tlu-  rliynu's.  lint  the  action  is 
generally  the  same.  The  ])layers  divide  into  two  sides 
of  about  equal  number,  in  lines  faeino-  each  other. 
Moving  forwards  and  baekwards  the  sides  sin<.  xcrse 
about  of  the  following  rhvme  : — 

Qi(es/i()fL — Have  you  any  bread  and  wine, 

Bread  and  wine,  bread  and  wine  ; 
Have  you  any  bread  and  wine. 

My  theerie  and  my  thorie  ? 

Answer. — Yes,  we  have  some  bread  and  wine^ 
Bread  and  wine,  bread  and  wine, 
Yes,  we  have  some  bread  and  wine. 
My  theerie  and  my  thorie. 

Question. — We  shall  have  one  glass  of  it,  ete. 
A7isfrer. — One  glass  of  it  you  shall  not  get,  ete. 
Question. — We  are  all  King  George's  men,  ete. 
Answer. — What  care  we  for  King  George's  men,  etc. 
Question. — How  many  miles  to  Glasgow  Lee  }  etc. 
Answer. — Sixty,  seventy,  eighty-three,  etc. 
Question. — Will  I  be  there  gin  candle-lieht  ?  etc-. 
Answer. — Just  if  your  feet  be  clean  and  slicht,  etc. 
Question. — Open  your  gates  and  let  me  through,  etc. 
Answer. — Not  without  a  beck  and  a  boo. 
Rep/i/.- — There's  a  beck  and  there's  a  boo. 

Open  your  gates  and  let  me  through. 


A  struggle  ensues  to  break  throuoh  each  other's  lines, 
and   reach   a   fixed    goa 
arrive  being  the  victors. 


and   reach   a   fixed    goal    on    either    side — the    first    to 


*& 


"  Glasgow  Ships  "  is  a  simjile  but  })retty  game.      .Ml 
join  hands,  forming  a  ring,  and,  moving  round,  sing  : 


82  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

Glasgow  ships  come  sailing  in, 
Come  sailing  in,  come  sailing  in  ; 
Glasgow  ships  come  sailing  in 
On  a  fine  summer  morning. 

You  daurna  set  your  fit  upon. 
Your  fit  uj)on.  your  fit  upon  ; 
You  daurna  set  your  fit  upon. 

Or  Gentle  John  will  kiss  you. 

Three  times  will  kiss  you  ; 
Four  times  will  bless  you  ; 
Five  times  butter  and  bread 
Upon  a  silver  salver. 

Who  shall  we  send  it  to  ? 
Send  it  to,  send  it  to  ; 
Who  shall  we  send  it  to  ? 

To  Mrs.  [Thomson's]  daughter 

Take  her  by  the  lily-white  hand. 
Lead  her  o'er  the  water ; 

Give  her  kisses,  one,  two,  three, 
She's  the  favourite  daughter. 

Braw  news  is  come  to  town, 
Braw  news  is  carried  ; 

Braw  news  is  come  to  town, 
[Maggie  Thomson's]  married. 

First  she  got  the  kail-}3ot. 
Syne  she  got  the  ladle  ; 

Syne  she  got  a  dainty  wean. 
And  syne  she  got  a  cradle. 


CHILDRKN'S    UHVMIvCAMllS.  s:{ 

The  girl  named  turns  her  hack  to  the  ceiilrc  of  tin* 
rino-,  and  the  game  is  resumed.  When  all  in  like 
manner  have  been  named  and  have  turned,  the  "soo's 
race  "  ensues  :  a  liurry-seurry  round  which  continues 
until  some  one  falls,  and  the  game  ends  by  all  tumbling 
in  a  eonfused  heap. 

''  Airlie's  Green/'  played  by  boys  and  girls  alike, 
has  })erhaps  had  its  greatest  vogue  in  Strathmore.  A 
space  is  set  apart  for  the  "  green,"  u])on  whieii  he,  or 
she,  who  is  "  Airlie "  takes  his,  or  her,  stand.  Tlie 
plav  begins  by  the  crowd  encroaching  on  the  "  green/' 
wlien  all  but  ''  Airlie  "  sing  : — 

I  set  my  fit  on  Airlie's  green, 

And  Airlie  canna  tak'  me  : 
I  canna  get  time  to  steer  my  brose 

For  Airlie  trying  to  catch  me. 

'^'^  Airlie's  "  object  is  to  '^tig  '  one  within  the  boundary. 
The  player  touched  takes  his,  or  her,  place,  and  the 
game  may  proceed  thus  as  long  as  desired. 

••  Het  Rowes  and  Butter  Cakes/'  in  some  places 
called  ''  Hickety,  Bickety/'  is  a  purely  boy  s  game. 
One  stands  with  his  eyes  bandaged,  and  his  hands 
against  a  wall  or  post,  with  his  head  resting  uj)on  tliem. 
One  after  another  his  fellows  come  up  unnamed  behind 
him,  laying  hands  on  his  back  ;  and  the  rhyme  is 
repeated  by  all  in  chorus  : — 

Launchman,  launchman,  lo. 
Where  shall  this  poor  Scotchman  go  ? 
Will  he  gang  east,  or  will  he  gang  west. 
Or  will  he  gang  to  the  hoodiecraw's  nest  ? 


84  CHILDRENVS    RHYME-GAMES. 

The  ''  hoodiecraw's  nest "  is  the  space  between  the 
bhndfolded  one's  feet  and  the  wall.  When  all  have 
been  sent  to  different  places  around^  he  w  ho  is  "  it " 
removes  the  bandage  from  his  eyes  ;  and  when  all  are 
ready  he  gives  the  call — "  Het  rowes  and  butter 
cakes ! "  when  all  rush  back  to  the  spot  whence 
despatched.  The  last  to  arrive  is  "  it  ;  "'  and  the  game 
goes  on  as  before.  Where  played  as  "  Hickety, 
Bickety/'  the  rhyme  is  : — 

Hickety^  bickety,  pease  scone^ 
Where  shall  this  poor  Scotchman  gang  } 
Will  he  gang  east;,  or  will  he  gang  w^est ; 
Or  will  he  jjanij;  to  the  craw's  nest } 


"  Queen  Mary."     In  this  game  the  rhyme  goes  : — 

Queen  Mary^  Queen  Mary^  my  age  is  sixteen, 
My  father's  a  farmer  on  yonder  green, 
With  plenty  of  money  to  dress  me  fu'  braw;, 
But  nae  bonnie  laddie  will  tak'  me  awa'. 
One  morning  I  rose,  and  I  looked  in  the  glass, 
Says  I  to  myself  I'm  a  handsome  young  lass  ; 
My  hands  by  my  side  and  I  gave  a  ha  !  ha  ! 
Yeb  there's  nae  bonnie  laddie  will  tak'  me  awa'. 

It  is  played  by  girls  only,  who  stand  in  a  row,  with 
one  in  front  alone  to  begin  with,  who  sings  the  verses, 
and  chooses  another  from  the  line.  The  two  then  join 
hands  and  advance  and  retire,  rei)eating  together  the 
verses,  with  suitable  action,  as  the  one  had  done  before 
alone.  At  the  close  they  select  a  third  from  the  line  ; 
and  the  game  proceeds  thus  until  all  are  taken  over. 


CHILDRKN'S    RIIVMK-C.AMKS.  s:, 

"^WiiriM'm'  Scoorie/'  thoug'h  a  ij,ainc  peculiar  lu 
Lanark,  and  to  the  boys  of  Lanark,  and  j)lav('d  oidv 
once  a  year,  is  yet  worth  nientionin<>-.  Its  ori«rin,  likr 
so  many  of  the  Lanark  celebrations,  is  lost  in  tlic  mists 
of  antiquity,  nevertheless,  it  is  still  re<i;u]arly  ))laycd, 
and  creates  a  sensation  on  its  annual  recurrence,  affect - 
ino-  the  old  scarcely  less  than  the  youni*-  in  tlie  c(»m- 
niunitv.  P'rom  the  month  of  October  till  the  month  of 
February,  inclusive,  the  bells  in  the  Parish  Church 
steejile  there  cease  to  ring  at  six  o'clock  in  the  evening, 
but  resume  on  the  first  day  of  March.  At  the  first 
peal  of  the  bell  then  the  children  start  and  march  three 
times  round  the  church,  after  which  a  rush  is  made  for 
the  Wellgate  Head,  where  they  engage  in  a  stand-up 
fight  with  the  youth  of  Xew  Lanark  (who  come  that 
length  to  meet  them),  the  weajwns  used  being  their 
bonnets  attached  to  a  long  string.  The  fight  over,  the 
victors  (generally  the  boys  of  the  Old  Town)  return, 
marching  in  order,  headed  by  one  carrying  a  huge 
stick  in  exalted  attitude,  with  a  flag  or  handkerchief 
attached  to  it  ;  and  thus  arranged,  they  parade  the 
principal  streets,  singing,  as  their  fathers  and  grand- 
fathers sang  before  them  : — 

Hooray,  boys,  hooray, 
For  we  have  won  the  day  ; 
We've  met  the  bold  New  Lanark  boys. 
And  chased  them  doun  the  brae  ! 

In  Chambers's  Popular  Hhipnes  of  Scot  la  fid  there  is  a 
description  of  "  Hinkumboobv,"  which  I  have  never 
seen  played.  It  is,  however,  only  an  extended  version 
of  "  Looby-Looby."     The  party  form  a  circle  (says  the 


86  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

writer)^  taking  hold  of  each  other's  hands.  One  sings, 
and  the  rest  join,  to  the  tune  of  LuUibero  : 

Fal  de  ral  la,  fal  de  ral  la ; 

while  doing  so  they  move  a  little  sideways  and  back 
again,  beating  the  time  (which  is  slow)  with  their  feet. 
As  soon  as  the  line  is  concluded,  each  claps  his  hands 
and  wheels  grotesquely  round,  singing  at  the  same 
time  the  second  line  of  the  verse  : — 

Hinkumbooby,  round  about. 

Then  they  sing,  with  the  appropriate  gesture — that  is, 
throwing  their  right  hand  into  the  circle  and  the  left 
out : — 

Right  hands  in,  and  left  hands  out, 

still  beating  the  time  ;  then  add  as  before,  wiiile 
wheeling  round,  with  a  clap  of  the  hands  : — 

Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  la,  fal  de  ral  la ; 

[gloving  sidenrti/s  as  before,  hand  in  hand.^ 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 

[  Wheeling  round  as  before,  with  a  chip  of 
the  hands.] 

Left  hands  in  and  right  hands  out, 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  la,  fal  de  ral  la, 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about. 

Right  foot  in,  and  left  foot  out, 

[Bight  feet  set  into  the  eentre.] 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  la,  fal  de  ral  la, 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about. 


CHILDRKN'S    RIIYM  i:-(i  AMKS.  s7 

Left  foot  in,  ;ind  riglit  foot  out, 
Hinkmnboobyj,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  ia,  fal  dc  ral  la,  vie. 


Heads  in,  and  backs  out, 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  la,  etc. 

Backs  in,  and  heads  out, 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral   la,  etc. 

A'  feet  in,  and  nae  feet  out, 

[On  this  occasion  all  sit  don'u.  n-ith  their  feel 
stretched  into  the  centre  of  the  ring  ;  and 
it   is   a  great  point   to  rise   tij)  proinpth/ 
enough  to  he  ready  for  the  wheel  round. ^ 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  la,  etc. 

Shake  hands  a',  shake  hands  a', 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  la,  etc. 

Good-night  a',  good-night  a', 

[The  hoys  honing  and  the  misses  curtseifmg 
in  an  affected  formal  manner.^ 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about, 
Fal  de  ral  la,  fal  de  ral  la, 
Hinkumbooby,  round  about. 

More  generally  played — and  not  in  Scotland  only 
is  "  Three  Brethren  come  from  Spain."     The  j)layers 
stand  in  two  lines,  slightly  apart,  facing  each  other — 


88  CHILDREN'S    RHYMP:-GAMES. 

the  boys  on  one  side^  the  girls  on  the  other.  The 
boys  advance  dancing,  and  singing  the  first  verse. 
The  girls  remain  motionless,  and  only  she  who  repre- 
sents the  mother  speaks. 

We  are  three  brethren  come  from  Spain, 

All  in  French  garlands  ; 
We  are  come  to  court  your   daughter,  Jane, 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 

As  they  recede,  the  mother  replies  : — 

My  daughter  Jane  she  is  too  young. 

All  in  French  garlands  ; 
She  cannot  bide  your  flattering  tongue, 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 


The  boys  advance  again,  singing  : — 
Be  she  young,  or  be  she  old. 


All  in  French  garlands. 
It's  for  a  bride  she  must  be  sold, 
And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 


Answer 


A  bride,  a  bride,  she  shall  not  be. 

All  in  French  garlands, 
Till  she  go  through  the  world  with  me. 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 


Address  :- 


Then  fare  ye  well,  my  lady  gay. 
All  in  French  garlands  ; 

We'll  come  again  some  other  day. 
And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 


I 


CHILDUKX'S    RHVMK-(;AMKS.  sf) 

Answer  : — 

Come  back,  come  back,  you  scornful  kni<::lit. 

All  in  French  <Jarlands  ; 
Clear  up  your  spurs,  and  make  them  bright, 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlinos. 

Address  :— 

Of  my  s})urs  take  you  no  thouglit. 

All  in  French  garlands  ; 
For  in  this  town  they  were  not  bought, 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 

Answer : — 

Smell  my  lilies,  smell  my  roses, 

All  in  French  garlands  : 
Which  of  my  daughters  do  you  choose  ? 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 

Address  : — 

Are  all  A^our  daughters  safe  and  sound  ? 

All  in  French  garlands  : 
Are  all  your  daughters  safe  and  sound  ? 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 

Answer  : — 

In  every  pocket  a  thousand  pounds, 

All  in  French  garlands  ; 
On  every  finger  a  gay,  gold  ring. 

And  adieu  to  you,  my  darlings. 

The  formula  is  repeated  as  above  until  every  boy  has 
chosen  a  lady-mate,  when  all  march  round  arm-in-arm 
in  pairs,  and  the  game  is  ended. 

7 


90  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

"  Here  Comes  a  Poor  Sailor  from  Botany  Bay." 
This  is  played  as  a  preliminary  game  to  decide  who 
shall  join^  and  which  side  they  will  take^  in  a  coming 
tiig-of-war.  The  chief  delight  derived  is  in  putting 
and  answering  questions.  Two  principals,  standing  as 
rival  chiefs,  and  acting  together  as  catechists,  begin  the 
play  ;  and  all  are  warned  before  replying  : — 

You  must  say  neither  "  Yes/'  "No,"  nor  "Nay," 
"Black,"  "White,"  nor  Grey." 

Then,  as  each  child  approaches,  the  formula  pro- 
ceeds : — 

Here  comes  a  poor  sailor  from  Botany  Bay ; 

Pray,  what  are  you  going  to  give  him  to-day  ? 

A  pair  of  boots  [may  be  the  answer]. 

What  colour  are  they  ? 

Brown. 

Have  you  anything  else  to  give  him  } 

I  think  so. 

What  colour  is  it  } 

Red. 

What  is  it  made  of  t 

Cloth. 

And  what  colour  ? 

Blue. 

Have  you  anything  else  to  give  him  ? 

I  don't  think  so. 

Would  you  like  a  sweet  ? 

Yes. 

Now  he  is  trapped.  He  has  given  one  of  the  fatal 
replies  ;  and  the  child  who  answered  "  Yes  "  goes  to  a 
den.  After  all  have  gone  through  a  similar  form,  the 
youngsters  are   divided    into    two    classes — those    who 


CHILDREN'S    RHYMK-CiAMI-.S.  ()i 

avoided  an8werin<v  in  tlu-  prohibited  tenns,  and  tlic 
little  culprits  in  the  den,  or  })rison,  who  had  tailed  in 
the  examination.  The  tug-of-war  now  l)e<i;ins,  the  one 
class  being  pitted  against  the  other.  No  rope  is  used  ; 
but  arms  are  entwined  round  waists,  or  skirts,  or  coat- 
tails  are  taken  hold  of ;  and  the  victors  crow  over  the 
vanquished. 

^•^  Janet  Jo,"  Avidely  })layed,  has  for  dramatis  persona', 
a  Father,  a  Mother,  Janet,  and  a  Lover.  Janet  lies 
stretched  at  full  length  behind  the  scenes.  The  father 
and  mother  stand  revealed  to  receive  the  visits  of  the 
lover,  who  approaches  singing,  to  an  air  somewhat  like 
"  The  Merry  Masons  "  : — 

I'm  come  to  court  Janet  jo, 
Janet  jo,  Janet  jo  ; 
I'm  come  to  court  Janet  jo — 
How  is  she  the  day  ? 

Parents  reply  together  : — 

She's  up  the  stair  washin', 
Washin',  washin' ; 
She's  up  the  stair  washin' — 
Ye  canna  see  her  the  day. 

The  lover  retires,  and  again,  and  yet  again,  advances 
with  the  same  announcement  of  his  object  and  purpose, 
to  which  he  receives  similar  evasive  answers  from  Janet's 
parents,  who  successively  represent  her  as  up  the  stair 
"bleaching,"  '^'^  drying,"  and  "ironing  clothes."  At 
last  they  reply  : — 

Janet  jo's  dead  and  gane. 
Dead  and  gane,  dead  and  gane  ; 
Janet  jo's  dead  and  gane — 

Ye'U  see  her  face  nae  mae  I 


92  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

She  is  then  carried  off  to  be  buried^  the  lover  and  the 
rest  weeping.  Sometimes  she  revives  (to  their  ojreat 
joy)^  and  sometimes  not,  ad  libitum — that  is,  as  Janet 
herself  chooses. 

A  south-country  version  (Dr.  Chambers  tells)  differs 
a  little,  and  represents  Janet  as  "  at  the  Well,"  instead 
of  upstairs,  and  afterwards  '^at  the  Mill,"  and  so  on. 
A  Glasgow  edition  gives  the  whole  in  good  west- 
country  prose,  and  the  lover  begins :  ''  I'm  come  to 
court  your  dochter,  Kate  Mackleister  !  " 

In  the  Stewartry  of  Kirkcudbright,  "  Janet  Jo  "  used 
to  be  a  dramatic  entertainment  amongst  young  rustics. 
Suppose  a  party  have  met  on  a  winter  evening  round  a 
good  peat  fire,  writes  Chambers,  and  is  resolved  to 
have  ^'^  Janet  Jo"  performed.  Two  undertake  to  per- 
sonate a  goodman  and  a  goodwife  ;  the  rest  a  family  of 
marriageable  daughters.  One  of  the  lads — the  best 
singer  of  the  party — retires,  and  equips  himself  in  a 
dress  proper  for  representing  an  old  bachelor  in  search 
of  a  wife.  He  comes  in,  bonnet  in  hand,  bowing,  and 
sings  : — 

Gude  e'en  to  ye,  maidens  a', 

Maidens  a',  maidens  a'  ; 

Gude  e'en  to  ye,  maidens  a'. 
Be  ye  or  no. 

I've  come  to  court  Janet  jo, 

Janet  jo,  Janet  jo  ; 

I've  come  to  court  Janet  jo, 

Janet,  my  jo. 
Gudewife  sings  : — 

What'll  ye  gie  for  Janet  jo, 
Janet  jo,  Janet  jo  ; 
What'll  ye  gie  for  Janet  jo, 

Janet,  my  jo  ? 


CHILDREN'S    RHYM1:-(;ANI1:S.  ():; 

The  wooer  replies  : — 

I'll  gie  ye  a  peck  o'  siller, 
A  peek  o'  siller,  j)eek  o'  siller  ; 
I'll  gie  ye  a  peek  o'  siller 
For  Janet,  my  jo. 

(nidewife  exclaims,  "  Gae  awa',  ye  auld  carle  I  "  tluii 
sings  : — 

Ye'se  never  get  Janet  jo, 

Janet  jo^  Janet  jo  ; 

Ye'se  never  get  Janet  jo, 
Janet,  my  jo. 

The  wooer  hereupon  retires,  singing  a  verse  expressive 
of  mortification,  but  soon  re-enters  with  a  re-assured 
air^  singing : — 

I'll  gie  ye  a  peck  o'  gowd, 
A  peck  o'  gowd,  peck  o'  gowd  ; 
I'll  gie  ye  a  peck  o'  gowd. 
For  Janet,  my  jo. 

The  matron  gives  him  a  rebuff  as  before,  and  he  again 
enters,  singing  an  offer  of  "  twa  pecks  o'  gowd,"  which, 
however,  is  also  refused.  At  his  next  entry  he  offers 
"three  pecks  o'  gowd,"  at  which  the  gudewife  brightens 
up,  and  sings  : — 

Come  ben  beside  Janet  Jo, 
Janet  jo,  Janet  jo  ; 
Y'e're  welcome  to  Janet  jo, 
Janet,  my  jo. 

The  suitor  then  advances  gaily  to  his  sweetheart,  and 
the  affair  ends  in  a  scramble  for  kisses. 


94  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

"The  Goloshans."  This  is  a  Hogmanay  play^,  and 
not  confined  to  children  alone,  which  for  that,  as  well  as 
other  reasons,  will  not  inaptly  close  this  chapter.  In 
some  parts  it  was  called  '^'^  The  Galatians,"  to  be  sure, 
I  say  was,  because  one  never  sees  it  now-a-days,  though 
fifty  years  ago,  under  the  one  designation  or  the  other, 
it  was  played  annually  by  the  Hogmanay  guizards, 
who,  dressed  for  the  occasion,  set  it  forth  with  delici- 
ously  unsophisticated  swagger  and  bluster  in  every 
house  they  visited  that  had  a  kitchen  floor  broad  and 
wide  enough  for  the  operation.  It  formed  the  material 
of  a  chap-book  which  was  regularly  on  sale  at  the 
'^'^  Johnnie-a'-thing  "  shops  in  the  middle  of  last  century, 
though  now,  I  suppose,  a  copy  could  scarcely  be  had 
for  love  or  money.  Sir  Walter  Scott,  who  delighted  to 
keep  up  old  customs,  and  could  condescend  to  simple 
things  without  losing  genuine  dignity,  invariably  had  a 
set  of  guizards  to  perform  the  play  before  his  family 
both  at  Ashestiel  and  at  Abbotsford.  The  dramatis 
personce  of  "The  Goloshans,"  after  the  character  in  the 
title-role — who  was  inevitable  on  all  occasions — differed 
somewhat  in  the  various  districts.  Chambers  gives  a 
fairly  adequate  version  in  his  Popular  Bkymes  of  Scot- 
land ;  but  the  fullest  and  best  I  have  seen  is  contained 
in  Proverbs  and  Proverbial  Expressions,  edited  by  "Andrew 
Cheviot,"  and  recently  published  by  Mr.  Alexander 
Gardner,  of  Paisley,  and  which  I  take  the  liberty  of 
quoting  mainly,  though  j)art  also  is  taken  from  Cham- 
bers's version.  The  characters  are  Sir  Alexander  ; 
Farmer's  Son  ;  Goloshan  ;  Wallace  ;  Dr.  Brown  ;  and 
Beelzebub. 

Enter  Sir  Alexander,  and  speaks  : — 
Haud  away  rocks,  and  baud  away  reels, 
Haud  aw  ay  stocks  and  spinning-wheels  ; 


CHILDRKX'S    RHV.MK-CAMKS.  ().; 

Redd  room  for  (jorlaiid,  and  ^ie  us  room  to  sin^-, 
And  I  will  show  you  the  j)rettiest  thiiitr 
That  ever  was  seen  in  Christmas  time. 
Muokle-head  and  Little-wit  stand  ahint  the  door  : 
But  sic  a  set  as  we  are  ne'er  were  seen  before. 

Enter  next  Farmer's  Son  : — 
Here  come  I,  the  farmer's  son, 
Althouofh  I  be  but  vounor,  sir, 
I've  got  a  spirit  brave, 
And  I'll  freely  risk  my  life. 
My  country  for  to  save. 

Goloshan  ajijiears  : — 
Here  come  I,  Goloshan — Goloshan  is  my  name. 
With  sword  and  pistol  by  my  side,  I   hope   to  win   the 
game. 

Farmer's  Son  : — 
The  game,  sir,  the  game,  sir  I  it  is  not  in  your  power, 
I'll  cut  you  into  inches  in  less  than  half-an-hour. 
My  head  is  made  of  iron,  my  heart  is  made  of  steel. 
My  sword  is  a  Ferrara  that  can  do  its  duty  weel. 

Goloshan  : — 
My  body  is  like  rock,  sir,  my  head  is  like  a  stone, 
And  I  will  be  Goloshan  when  you  are  dead  and  gone. 

Enter  Wallace  : — 
Here  come  I,  Sir  William  Wallace,  wight, 
Who  shed  his  blood  for  Scotland's  right  ; 
Without  a  right,  without  a  reason. 
Here  I  draw  my  bloody  wea})on. 

( Fight  .s  with  Cn)loshan — the  latter  falls.) 


96  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

Farmer's  Son  : — 
Now  that  young  man  is  dead^  sir^  and  on  the  ground  is 

laid^ 
And  you  shall  suffer  for  it^  I'm  very  much  afraid. 

Wallace  : — 
It  was  not  me  that  did  the  deed^  nor  me  that  did  the 

crime^ 
'Twas  this  young  man  behind  me  who  drew  his  sw^ord 
so  fine. 

Sir  Alexander  : — 
Oh^  you  artful  villain^  to  lay  the  blame  on  me  ! 
For  my  two  eyes  were  shut,  sir,  when  this  young  man 
did  dee. 

Wallace  : — 
How    could    your   eyes   be    shut,   sir,   when   you    were 

looking  on  } 
How   could  your   eyes    be    shut,    sir,    when    both    the 

swords  were  drawn  ? 

Farmer's  Son  (to  Wallace)  : — 
How  can  you  thus  deny  the  deed  ?     As  I  stood  looking 

on. 
You  drew  your  sword  from  out  its  sheath,  and  slashed 

his  body  down. 

Wallace  :— 
li  I  have  slain  Goloshan,  Goloshan  I  will  cure. 
And  I  will  make  him  rise  and  sing  in  less  than  half-an- 

hour  ; 
Round  the  kitchen,  round  the  town. 
Haste  and  bring  me  Dr.  Brown. 


CHILDREN'S    RHYMK-(;AMKS.  ()7 

Dr.  l?n>wn  enters  : — 

Here  come   I,  old    Dr.  Brown,  the    foremost  doctor  in 
the  town. 

Wallace  :— 
What  makes  you  so  good^  sir  ? 

Doctor  : — 
Why^  my  travels. 

Wallace  : — 
And  where  have  you  travelled  ? 

Doctor  : — 

From  Hickerty-pickerty-hedgehog,  three  times  round 
the  W^est  Indies,  and  back  to  old  Scotland. 

Wallace  : — 

Is  that  all  ? 

Doctor  : — 
No  sir.  I  have  travelled  from  fireside  to  chairside, 
from  chairside  to  stoolside,  from  stoolside  to  table- 
side,  from  tableside  to  bedside,  from  bedside  to 
press-side,  and  got  many  a  lump  of  bread  and 
butter  from  my  mother  ;  and  that's  the  way  my 
belly's  so  big. 

Wallace  : — 
Well,  what  can  you  cure  ? 

Doctor  : — 
I  can  cure  the  rurvy-scurvy,  and  the  rumble-gum})tion 
of  a  man  who  has  been  seven  years  dead  or  more, 
and  can  make  an  old  woman   of  sixty  look  like  a 
girl  of  sixteen. 


98  CHILDREN'S    RHYMP:-GAMES. 

Wallace  : — 

How  much   would  you   take  to  cure  this  dead  man  ? 
Would  five  pounds  do  ? 

Doctor  (turning  away)  : — 
Five  pounds  !     No^  five  pounds  would  not  get  a  good 
kit  of  brose. 

Wallace  : — 
Would  ten  pounds  do  ? 

Doctor  : — 
Yes,  perhaps  ten  pounds  would  do — that^  and  a  pint  of 
wine.  I  have  a  bottle  of  inky-pinkie  in  my 
pocket.  (Approaches  Goloshan.)  By  the  hocus- 
pocus  and  the  magical  touch  of  my  little  finger  ; 
heigh  ho  !  start  up.  Jack,  and  sing ! 

Goloshan  (rises  and  sings)  : — 
Oh,  once  I  was  dead,  sir,  but  now  I  am  alive. 
And  blessed  be  the  doctor  that  made  me  revive  ; 
We'll  all  join  hands,  and  never  fight  no  more. 
We'll  all  be  good  fellows,  as  we  have  been  before. 

All  four  :— 
We'll  all  shake  hands  and  agree,  and  never  fight  no 

more. 
We'll  all  be  like  brothers,  as  we  were  once  before  ; 
God  bless  the  master  of  this  house,  the  mistress  fair 

likewise, 
And  all  the  pretty  children  that  round  the  table  rise. 
Go  down  into  your  cellar  and  see  what  you  can  find. 
Your  barrels  being  not  empty,  we  hope  you  will  prove 

kind : 


CHILDRKX'S    UHVMK-(;AMKS.  })}) 

We  hope   vou  will    j)rove    kind,  with    whisky   aiui    with 

beer, 
We  wish  you  a  Merry  Christinas,  likewise  a   o(^oci    New 

Year. 

Enter  Beelzebub  (for  the  collection)  : — 
Here  come  I^  Old  Beelzebub^  over  my  shoulder  I  carry 

a  club, 
And  in  my  hand  a  frying-pan.      Am  not  I   a  jolly  old 

man  ? 
It's  money  I  want,  and  money  I  crave. 
If  ye  don't  give  me  money  I'll  sweep  ye  to  your  grave. 

Old  Beelzebub's  appeal  not  being  resisted  (for  who 
might  dare  to  resist  such  ?),  the  picturesque  players 
retire,  and  proceed  from  thence  merrily  to  occupy 
another  stage. 

Mr.  Sandys,  it  may  be  noted,  in  his  elegant  volume 
of  Christmas  Carols  (1833),  transcribes  a  play  called  "  St. 
George,"  which  still  is,  or  used  to  be,  acted  at  the  New 
Year  in  Cornw^all,  exactly  after  the  manner  of  our 
Scottish  play  of  "  Goloshan,"  which  it  resembles  as 
much  as  various  versions  of  "  Goloshan "  in  Scotland 
resemble  each  other.  The  leading  characters,  besides 
St.  George  himself  and  the  Dragon,  which  is  twice 
killed,  are  a  Turkish  knight  and  the  King  of  Kgy])t. 
It  is  curious  thus,  as  Dr.  Chambers  remarks,  to  find 
one  play,  with  unimportant  variations,  preserved  tradi- 
tionally by  the  common  })eo})le  in  parts  of  the  island  so 
distant  from  each  other,  and  in  many  respects  so 
different. 

It  is  curious  further,  and  of  much  interest  to  note, 
that    in    these    singing-games,    if    nowhere    else,    the 


100  CHILDREN'S    RHYME-GAMES. 

country  and  the  city  child,  the  children  of  the  mansion 
and  the  children  of  the  alley,  meet  all,  beautifully,  on 
common  ground.  And,  how  the  out-door  ones  lie  dor- 
mant for  spaces,  and  spring  simultaneously  into  action 
in  widel}^  separated  parts — town  and  country  alike — is 
a  problem  which  may  not  be  easily  solved.  It  seems 
to  us  that,  like  the  songs  of  birds,  they  belong  to 
certain  seasons,  and  are  suggested,  each  in  its  turn,  or 
class  by  class,  by  the  feeling  in  the  air.  But  mark, 
I  say  only  seems,  for  who  may  dogmatize  on  such 
matters  ! 


CHILDREN'S 
SONGS   AND    BALLADS, 


'^ff/yy/y/y^ff^t 


Not  the  more  exalted  songs  of  child  life  here — not 
"Willie  Winkie/'  and  ''' Cuddle  Doon/'  and  "^Castles 
in  the  Air/'  and  all  that  widely  esteemed  band,  which, 
collectively,  would  themselves  tax  the  limits  of  a  large 
volume — but  some  of  the  ruder  ditties  only  which  the 
children  for  many  generations  have  delighted  to  sing, 
and  been  no  less  charmed  by  hearing  sung,  and  which 
of  late  have  not  been  so  frequently  seen  in  print. 
These  rude  old  favourites,  too,  with  slight  comment — 
little  being  required.  And  of  such,  surely  '^  Cock 
Robin  "  may  well  be  awarded  the  place  of  honour — a 
song  which,  together  with  the  more  elaborate  tale  of 
"  The  Babes  in  the  Wood,"  has  done  more  to  make  its 
})ert  and  dapper  red-waistcoated  subject  the  general 
favourite  he  is  w^ith  old  and  young,  than  any  virtue 
that  may  be  claimed  for  the  little  tyrant  himself 

COCK    ROBIN. 

Who  killed  Cock  Robin  } 

I,  said  the  Sparrow, 

With  my  bow  and  arrow, 
I  killed  Cock  Robin. 


02      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

Who  saw  him  die  ? 

I,  said  the  Fly, 

With  my  httle  eye^ 
I  saw  him  die. 


Who  caught  his  blood  ? 


I,  said  the  Fish^ 
With  my  httle  dish, 
I  caught  his  blood. 


Who'll  make  his  shroud  ? 

I^  said  the  Beetle^ 

With  my  thread  and  needle^ 
ril  make  his  shroud. 

Who'll  carry  him  to  his  grave  ? 
I,  said  the  Kite, 
If  it's  not  in  the  night, 

I'll  carry  him  to  his  grave. 

Who'll  dig  his  grave  ? 

I,  said  the  Owl, 

With  my  spade  and  shovel, 
I'll  dig  his  grave. 

Who'll  carry  the  link  ? 
1,  said  the  Linnet, 
I'll  fetch  it  in  a  minute, 

I'll  carry  the  link. 

Who'll  be  chief  mourner  } 
I,  said  the  Dove, 
I'll  mourn  for  my  love, 

I'll  be  chief  mourner. 


CHILDREN'S   SONGS   AND   IJALLADS.       lo.H 

Who'll  sing  the  psalm  ? 

I,  said  the  Thrush, 

As  he  sat  on  a  bush, 
I'll  sing  the  psalm. 

Who'll  be  the  ])ars()n  ? 

I,  said  the  Rook, 

With  my  little  book, 
I'll  be  the  parson. 

Who'll  be  the  clerk  } 

I,  said  the  Lark, 

If  it's  not  in  the  dark, 
I'll  be  the  clerk. 

Who'll  toll  the  bell  ? 

I,  said  the  Bull, 

Because  I  can  pull, 
I'll  toll  the  bell. 

And  all  the  little  birds 

Fell  a-sighing  and  a-sobbing. 

When  they  heard  the  bell  toll 
For  poor  Cock  Robin. 

And  of  Cock  Robin  again,  no  less  captivating  has 
been  the  ballad  celebrating  his  wedding  with  little 
Jenny  Wren.  Though  why  with  a  lady  of  the  Wren 
family,  must  always  strike  naturalists  as  an  absurdity  ; 
and,  I  suj)})ose,  we  may  not  ask  how  it  was  the  banns 
were  not  forbidden,  since  the  Messrs.  Wren,  with 
the  children,  and  the  whole  creation  of  birds — with 
the  single  exception  of  a  blackguard  cuckoo— have 
jubilantly  acquiesced  in  the  nuptials. 


104      CHILDREN'S    SONGS    AND    BALLADS. 


THE   MARRIAGE   OF   COCK    ROBIN   AND 
JENNY    WREN. 

It  was  a  merry  time. 

When  Jenny  Wren  was  young. 
So  neatly  as  she  dressed, 

And  so  sweetly  as  she  sung. 

Robm  Redbreast  lost  his  heart. 

He  was  a  gallant  bird  ; 
He  doffed  his  hat  to  Jenny, 

And  thus  to  her  he  said  : 

"  My  dearest  Jenny  Wren, 

If  you  will  but  be  mine, 
You  shall  dine  on  cherry  pie 

And  drink  nice  currant  wine. 

"  I'll  dress  you  like  a  goldfinch. 

Or  like  a  peacock  gay  ; 
So,  if  you'll  have  me,  Jenny, 

Let  us  appoint  the  day." 

Jenny  blushed  behind  her  fan. 
And  thus  declared  her  mind  : 

"  Then  let  it  be  to-morrow.  Bob — 
I  take  your  offer  kind. 

"  Cherry  pie  is  very  good. 

So  is  currant  wine  ; 
But  I'll  wear  my  russet  gown 

And  never  dress  too  fine." 


CHILDREN'S   SONGS   AM)    BALLADS.       lo; 

Robin  rose  up  early, 

At  the  break  of  day  ; 
He  flew  to  Jenny  Wren's  liouse 

To  sing'  a  roundelay. 

He  met  the  Cock  and  Hen, 

And  bade  the  Cock  declare 
This  was  his  wedding-  day 

With  Jenny  Wren  the  fair. 

The  Cock  then  blew  his  horn, 
To  let  the  neighbours  know 

This  was  Robin's  wedding  day, 
And  they  might  see  the  show. 

Then  followed  him  the  Lark, 

For  he  could  sweetly  sing. 
And  he  Avas  to  be  the  clerk 

At  Cock  Robin's  wedding. 

He  sang  of  Robin's  love 

For  little  Jenny  Wren  ; 
And  when  he  came  unto  the  end, 

Then  he  began  again. 

At  first  came  Parson  Rook, 

With  his  spectacles  and  band  ; 

And  one  of  Mother  Hubbard's  books 
He  held  within  his  hand. 

The  Goldfinch  came  on  next, 

To  give  away  the  bride  ; 
The  Linnet,  being  bridesmaid, 

Walked  by  Jenny's  side  ; 


106      CHILDRf:X'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

And  as  she  was  a-walking, 

Said,  "  Upon  my  word, 
I  think  that  your  Cock  Robin 

Is  a  very  pretty  bird." 

The  Blackbird  and  the  Thrush, 
And  charming  Nightingale, 

Whose  sweet  songs  sweetly  echo 
Through  every  grove  and  dale ; 

The  Sparrow  and  the  Tomtit, 
And  many  more  were  there  ; 

All  came  to  see  the  wedding 
Of  Jenny  Wren  the  fair. 

The  Bullfinch  walked  by  Robin, 
And  thus  to  him  did  say  : 

"  Pray  mark,  friend  Robin  Redbreast, 
That  Goldfinch  dressed  so  gay  ; 

"  That  though  her  gay  apparel 

Becomes  her  very  well. 
Yet  Jenny's  modest  dress  and  look 

Must  bear  away  the  bell." 

Then  came  the  bride  and  bridegroom  ; 

Quite  plainly  was  she  dressed, 
And  blushed  so  much,  her  cheeks  were 

As  red  as  Robin's  breast. 

But  Robin  cheered  her  up  ; 

'^'^My  pretty  Jen,"  says  he, 
"  We're  going  to  be  married. 

And  happy  we  shall  be." 


CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AM)  liALI.ADS.      lo' 

"Oh,"  then  says  Parson  Rook, 
"Who  gives  this  maid  away  ?  " 

"I  do/'  says  the  Goldfincli, 
"And  her  fortune  I  will  pa}-  : 

"  Here's  a  bag  of  grain  of  many  sorts. 

And  other  things  beside  ; 
Now  happy  be  the  bridegroom, 

And  hap})y  be  the  bride  !  " 

"  And  you  will  have  her,  Robin, 

To  be  your  wedded  w4fe  ?  " 
"Yes,  I  will,"  ssLjs  Robin, 

"  And  love  her  all  my  life  !  " 

"  And  you  will  have  him  Jenny, 

Your  husband  now  to  be  ?  " 
"Yes,  I  will,"  says  Jenny, 

"And  love  him  heartily." 

Then  on  her  finger  fair 

Cock  Robin  put  the  ring  ; 
"  You're  married  now,"  says  Parson  Rook, 

While  the  lark  aloud  did  sing  : 

"  Happy  be  the  bridegroom. 

And  happy  be  the  bride  ! 
And  may  not  man,  nor  bird,  nor  beast. 

This  happy  pair  divide  !  " 

The  birds  were  asked  to  dine  ; 

Not  Jenny's  friends  alone. 
But  every  pretty  songster 

That  had  Cock  Robin  known. 


108      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS 

They  had  a  cherry  pie, 

Besides  some  currant  wine. 

And  every  guest  brought  something. 
That  sumptuous  they  might  dine. 

Now  they  all  sat  or  stood, 

To  eat  and  to  drink  ; 
And  every  one  said  what 

He  happened  to  think. 

They  each  took  a  bumper. 

And  drank  to  the  pair  ; 
Cock  Robin  the  bridegroom. 

And  Jenny  the  fair. 

The  dinner-things  removed. 

They  all  began  to  sing  ; 
And  soon  they  made  the  place 

For  a  mile  around  to  ring. 

The  concert  it  was  fine, 

And  every  birdie  tried 
Who  best  should  sing  for  Robin 

And  Jenny  Wren  the  bride. 

When  in  came  the  Cuckoo, 

And  made  a  great  rout ; 
He  caught  hold  of  Jenny, 

And  pulled  her  about. 

Cock  Robin  was  angry. 
And  so  was  the  Sparrow, 

Who  fetched  in  a  hurry 
His  bow  and  his  arrow. 


I 


CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS.       loj) 

His  aim  tlien  lie  took, 

Hut  he  took  it  not  right. 
His  skill  was  not  good. 

Or  he  shot  in  a  fright ; 

For  the  Cuekot)  he  missed. 

But  Coek  Robin  he  killed  ! — 
And  all  the  birds  mourned 

That  his  blood  was  so  sj^illed. 

Yet  another  song  of  the  Robin  which  has  moistened 
the  eyes  of  many  a  youthful  vocalist.  I  don't  know 
that  it  ever  had  a  title,  but  we  will  call  it 

THE   NORTH   WIND. 

The  North  wind  doth  blow. 
And  we  shall  have  snow. 
And  what  will  the  Robin  do  then,  poor  thing  ? 

He  will  sit  in  the  barn. 
And  keej)  himself  warm. 
With  his  little  head  under  his  wing,  poor  thing  ! 

It  is  not  claimed  for  these  pieces  that  they  belong  to 
any  high  order  of  verse — though  really,  in  more  senses 
than  one,  they  belong  to  the  very  first.  In  point  of 
popularity  alone,  they  are  not  surpassed  by  "  Paradise 
Lost,"  nor  by  the  plays  of  Shakespeare,  or  the  songs  of 
Burns.  Then,  they  have  so  thoroughly  commanded 
the  interest  and  engaged  the  affections  of  the  wee  folks, 
that,  with  old  and  young  alike — for  the  young  so  soon 
grow  into  the  old,  alas  ! — there  are  no  compositions  in 


no      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

the  world  better  secured  for  the  honour  and  glory  of 
immortal  fame.  They  have  not  been  very  often  printed, 
I  have  said — not  often  in  recent  years,  at  least — and 
the  reason,  I  suppose,  is  because  it  was  not  deemed 
necessary  to  set  out  in  print  what  everybody  knows  so 
well  by  heart.  It  must  be  refreshing  for  the  eye, 
however,  to  scan  what  is  so  familiar  to  the  ear,  and  I 
make  no  apology — yea,  I  hope  to  be  thanked  for  their 
a})j)earance  in  this  little  book  for  bairns  and  big  folk. 
Let  the  next  be 


LITTLE    BO-PEEP. 

Little  Bo-peep  has  lost  her  sheep. 

And  doesn't  know  where  to  find  them  ; 

Let  them  alone,  and  they'll  come  home. 
Bringing  their  tails  behind  them. 

Little  Bo-peep  fell  fast  asleep. 

And  dreamt  she  heard  them  bleating  ; 
But  when  she  awoke,  slie  found  it  a  joke. 

For  still  they  all  were  fleeting. 

Then  up  she  took  her  little  crook. 

Determined  for  to  find  them  ; 
She  found  them  indeed,  but  it  made  her  heart  bleed. 

For  they'd  left  their  tails  behind  them. 

It  happen' d  one  day,  as  Bo-peep  did  stray 

Under  a  meadow  hard  by, 
That  she  espied  their  tails,  side  by  side. 

All  hung  on  a  tree  to  dry. 


I 


CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS.       Ill 

She  heaved  a  sigh,  and  wiped  lier  eye, 
And  over  the  liillocks  went  .stinn))-()  ; 

And  tried  as  she  eould,  as  a  she])herdess  should. 
To  taek  again  each  to  its  runip-o. 

The  ballad  lacks  sadly  in  |)articulars,  to  be  sure.  How 
the  tails  of  the  entire  flock  disajjpeared  in  one  fell 
swoop — whether  by  malice  aforethought,  at  the  instance 
of  a  lurking  enemy,  or  in  a  miraculous  accident,  whilst 
the  young  shepherdess  slept  at  her  charge — has  never 
been  told,  though  thousands  of  wondering  pows,  multi- 
})lied  by  ten,  have  wanted  to  know.  Perhaps  it  is 
better  not  explained.  Mystery  is  so  often  just  another 
word  for  charm. 

We  will  now  have  the  curious  tale  of  "  The  House 
that  Jack  Built."  In  no  sense  a  curious  house,  perhaps, 
but  famous  because  of  the  fortuitous  events  w^hich 
issued  in  regular  sequence  from  the  simple  fact  of  the 
builder  having  stored  a  quantity  of  malt  within  its 
walls.  It  is  told  best  with  the  accompaniment  of 
pictorial  illustrations,  but  here  these  are  not  available. 

THE    HOUSE    THAT    JACK    BUILT. 

This  is  the  house  that  Jack  built. 

This  is  the  malt 
That  lay  in  the  house 
That  Jack  built. 

This  is  the  rat 
That  ate  the  malt 
That  lay  in  the  house 
That  Jack  built. 


112      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

,    This  is  the  cat 
That  killed  the  rat 
That  ate  the  malt 
That  lay  in  the  house 
That  Jack  built. 

This  is  the  dog 
That  worried  the  cat 
That  killed  the  rat 
That  ate  the  malt 
That  lay  in  the  house 
That  Jack  built. 

This  is  the  cow  with  the  crumpled  horn 
That  tossed  the  dog- 
That  worried  the  cat 
That  killed  the  rat 
That  ate  the  malt 
That  lay  in  the  house 
That  Jack  built. 

This  is  the  maiden  all  forlorn 

That  milked  the  cow  with  the  crumpled  horn 

That  tossed  the  dog 

That  worried  the  cat 

That  killed  the  rat 

That  ate  the  malt 

That  lay  in  the  house 

That  Jack  built 

This  is  the  man  all  tattered  and  torn 

That  kissed  the  maiden  all  forlorn 

That  milked  the  cow  with  the  crumpled  horn 

That  tossed  the  dog 


CHILDREN'S  SOXCIS  AM)   BALLADS.       ll;j 

That  worried  the  cat 
That  killed  the  rat 
That  ate  the  malt 
That  lay  in  the  house 
That  Jack  built. 

This  is  the  })riest  all  shaven  and  shorn 

That  married  the  man  all  tattered  and  torn 

That  kissed  the  maiden  all  forlorn 

That  milked  the  cow  with  the  crumpled  horn 

That  tossed  the  dog 

That  worried  the  cat 

That  killed  the  rat 

That  ate  the  malt 

That  lay  in  the  house 

That  Jack  built. 

This  is  the  cock  that  crowed  in  the  morn 

And  waked  the  priest  all  shaven  and  shorn 

That  married  the  man  all  tattered  and  torn 

That  kissed  the  maiden  all  forlorn 

That  milked  the  cow  with  the  crumpled  horn 

That  tossed  the  dog 

That  worried  the  cat 

That  killed  the  rat 

That  ate  the  malt 

That  lay  in  the  house 

That  Jack  built. 

It  has  been  a  satisfaction  to  many  a  little  boy.  I 
am  sure,  to  feel  tliat  he  was  not,  by  many  miles,  so 
simple  as  that  most  abject  of  all  simpletons,  familiar  to 
him  as — 


lU      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

SIMPLE   SIMON. 

Simple  Simon  met  a  jiie-maii;, 

Going  to  the  fair  ; 
Said  Simple  Simon  to  the  pie-man, 

"  Let  me  taste  your  ware." 

Says  the  pie-man,  "  Simple  Simon, 
Show  me  first  your  penny  ;  " 

Said  Simple  Simon  to  the  pie-man, 
'•  Indeed,  I  have  not  any." 

Simple  Simon  went  a-fishing. 

For  to  catch  a  whale  ; 
All  the  water  he  had  got 

Was  in  his  mother's  pail  ! 

Some  may  follow  without  comment. 

OLD    MOTHER   HUBBARD. 

Old  Mother  Hubbard,  she  went  to  the  cupboard. 

To  get  her  poor  doggie  a  bone  ; 
When  she  got  there,  the  cupboard  was  bare. 

And  so  the  poor  doggie  had  none. 

She  went  to  the  baker's  to  buy  him  some  bread. 
But  when  she  came  back  the  poor  doggie  was  dead. 

She  went  to  the  undertaker's  to  buy  him  a  coffin. 
And  when  she  came  back  the  doggie  was  laughing. 

She  went  to  the  butcher's  to  get  him  some  tripe. 
And  when  she  came  back  he  was  smoking  a  pipe. 


CHILDRFA'S  SOXCiS  AM)  iiALLADS.       lir, 


She  went  to  the  fish-sliop  to  buy  liiin  some  fish, 
And  when  she  eanie  back  he  was  washing  the  dish. 


She  went  to  the  tavern  for  white  wine  and  red, 
And  when  she  came  back  doggie  stood  on  his  head. 

She  went  to  the  hatter's  to  buy  him  a  hat^ 

And  when  she  came  back  he  was  feeding  the  cat. 

She  went  to  the  tailor's  to  buy  him  a  coat^ 

And  wlien  she  came  back  he  was  riding  the  goat. 

vShe  went  to  the  barber's  to  buy  him  a  wig, 
And  when  she  came  back  he  was  dancing  a  jig. 

She  went  to  the  draper's  to  buy  him  some  hnen. 
And  when  she  came  back  the  good  dog  was  spinning. 

She  went  to  the  hosier's  to  buy  him  some  hose. 

And  when  she  came  back  he  was  dressed  in  liis  clothes. 


The  dame  made  a  curtsey,  the  dog  made  a  bow. 
The  dame  said,  "  Your  servant,"  the  dog  said,  "  Bow- 
wow." 


OLD  mothp:r  goosp:. 


Old  Mother  Goose,  when 
She  wanted  to  wander, 

Would  ride  through  the  air 
On  a  very  fine  gander. 


116 


CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

Mother  Goose  had  a  house, 

'Twas  built  in  a  wood. 
Where  an  owl  at  the  door 

For  a  sentinel  stood. 

She  had  a  son  Jack, 

A  plain -looking  lad, 
Not  very  good, 

Nor  yet  very  bad. 

She  sent  him  to  market, 

A  live  goose  he  bought, 
"  Here,  mother,"  says  he, 

"  It  won't  go  for  nought." 

Jack's  goose  and  the  gander 

Grew  very  fond, 
They'd  both  eat  together, 

Or  swim  in  one  pond. 

Jack  found,  one  fine  morning. 

As  I  have  been  told, 
His  goose  had  laid  him 

An  egg  of  pure  gold. 

Jack  rode  to  his  mother 

The  news  for  to  tell ; 
She  called  him  a  good  boy, 

And  said  it  was  well. 

Jack  sold  his  gold  ^gg 

To  a  rascally  Jew% 
Who  cheated  him  out  of 

The  half  of  his  due. 


CHILDREN'S  SOXCiS  AM)  BALLADS.       II 

Tlien  Jack  went  a-coiirtin''- 

A  lady  so  gay, 
As  fair  as  the  lily. 

And  sweet  as  the  May. 

The  Jew  and  the  Squire 

Came  behind  his  back 
And  began  to  belabour 

The  sides  of  jx)or  Jack. 

And  then  the  gold  agg 

Was  thrown  in  the  sea, 
When  Jack  he  jumped  in 

And  got  it  })resently. 

The  Jew  got  the  goose, 

Which  he  vowed  he  would  kill, 

Resolving  at  once 
His  pockets  to  fill. 


Jack's  mother  came  in 

And  caught  the  goose  soon. 
And  mounting  its  back. 

Flew  up  to  the  moon. 

THE  OLD  WOMAN  AND  HER  PIG. 

An  old  woman  was  sweeping  her  house,  and  she 
found  a  little  crooked  sixpence.  '^'^Wliat,"  she  said, 
"  shall  I  do  with  this  little  sixpence  ?  I  will  go  to 
market  and  buy  a  little  pig."  As  she  was  coming  home 
she  came  to  a  stile.  The  piggy  would  not  go  over  the 
stile.  She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  a  dog,  so 
she  said  to  the  dog  : — 


118      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

"  Dog,  dog,  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile, 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 

But  the  dog  would  not. 

She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  a  stick.      So 
she  said  : — 

"  Stick,  stick,  beat  dog  ; 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile. 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 

But  the  stick  would  not. 

She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  a  fire.      So  she 
said  : — 

"  Fire,  fire,  burn  stick  ; 

Stick  won't  beat  dog ; 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile  ; 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 

But  the  fire  would  not. 

She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  some  water. 
So  she  said  : — 

"  Water,  water,  quench  fire  ; 

Fire  won't  burn  stick  ; 

Stick  won't  beat  dog  ; 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile. 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 

But  the  water  would  not. 


CHILDUFA'S  SONCiS  AND   BALLADS.       l|(> 

She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  an  ox.      So  slie 
said  : — 

"  Ox,  ox,  drink  water ; 

Water  won't  qiieneh  fire  ; 

Fire  won't  burn  stiek  ; 

Stiek  won't  beat  do<>-  ; 

Dog  won't  bite  ])ig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile, 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night  I  " 

But  the  ox  would  not. 

She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  a  butcher.      So 
she  said  : — 

"  Butcher^  butcher,  kill  ox  ; 

Ox  won't  drink  water  ; 

Water  won't  quench  fire  ; 

Fire  won't  burn  stick  ; 

Stick  won't  beat  dog  ; 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile, 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 

But  the  butcher  would  not. 

She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  a  rope.     So 
she  said  : — 

"  Rope,  rope,  hang  butcher  ; 
Butcher  won't  kill  ox  ; 
Ox  won't  drink  water  ; 
Water  won't  quench  fire  ; 
Fire  won't  burn  stick  ; 
Stick  won't  beat  dog  ; 


120      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile. 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night  !  " 

But  the  rope  would  not. 

She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  a  rat.      So  she 
said  : — 

"  Rat,  rat,  gnaw  rope  ; 

Rope  won't  hang  butcher  ; 

Butcher  won't  kill  ox  ; 

Ox  won't  drink  water  ; 

Water  Mon't  quench  fire  ; 

Fire  won't  burn  stick  ; 

Stick  won't  beat  dog  ; 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile. 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 

But  the  rat  would  not. 


She  went  a  little  farther,  and  she  met  a  cat.      So  she 
.said  : — 

"  Cat,  cat,  kill  rat  ; 

Rat  won't  gnaw  ro})e  ; 

Rope  won't  hang  butcher  ; 

Butcher  won't  kill  ox  ; 

Ox  won't  drink  water  ; 

Water  won't  quench  fire  ; 

Fire  won't  burn  stick  ; 

Stick  won't  beat  bog  ; 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile, 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 


CHILDRKX'S  SOXCiS  AM)  JJALLADS.       I'JI 

But  the  cat  said  to  her,  "  If  you  will  ^o  to  yonder 
cow,  and  fetcli  me  a  saucer  of  milk,  I  will  kill  the  rat." 
So  away  went  the  old  woman   to  the  cow,  and  said  : — 

''  Cow,  cow,  give  me  a  saucer  of  milk  ; 

Cat  M'on't  kill  rat ; 

Rat  won't  ij^naw  ro})e  : 

Rope  won't  hantj-  butcher  ; 

Butcher  won't  kill  ox  ; 

Ox  won't  drink  water  ; 

Water  won't  quench  fire  ; 

Fire  won't  burn  stick  ; 

Stick  won't  beat  dog  ; 

Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 

Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile. 

And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 

But  the  cow  said  to  her,  "  If  you  will  go  to  yonder 
haymakers,  and  fetch  me  a  wisp  of  hay,  I'll  give  you 
the  milk."  So  away  went  the  old  woman  to  the  hay- 
makers, and  said  : — 

"^  Haymakers,  give  me  a  wisp  of  hay ; 
Cow  won't  give  milk  ; 
Cat  won't  kill  rat ; 
Rat  won't  gnaw  rope  ; 
Rope  won't  hang  butcher  ; 
Butcher  won't  kill  ox  ; 
Ox  won't  drink  water ; 
Water  won't  quench  fire  ; 
Fire  won't  burn  stick  ; 
Stick  won't  beat  dog  ; 
Dog  won't  bite  pig  ; 
Piggy  won't  get  over  the  stile, 
And  I  shan't  get  home  to-night !  " 
9 


122     CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

But  the  haymakers  said  to  her,  "  If  you  will  go  to 
yonder  stream,  and  fetch  us  a  bucket  of  water,  we'll 
give  you  the  hay."  So  away  the  old  woman  went. 
But  when  she  got  to  the  stream,  she  found  the  bucket 
was  full  of  holes.  So  she  covered  the  bottom  with 
pebbles,  and  then  filled  the  bucket  with  water,  and  she 
went  back  with  it  to  the  haymakers,  and  they  gave  her 
a  wisp  of  hay. 

As  soon  as  the  cow  had  eaten  the  hay,  she  gave  the 
old  woman  the  milk  ;  and  away  she  went  with  it  in  a 
saucer  to  the  cat.  As  soon  as  the  cat  had  lapped  up 
the  milk — 

The  cat  began  to  kill  the  rat ; 

The  rat  began  to  gnaw  the  rope  ; 

The  rope  began  to  hang  the  butcher ; 

The  butcher  began  to  kill  the  ox  ; 

The  ox  began  to  drink  the  water ; 

The  water  began  to  quench  the  fire  ; 

The  fire  began  to  burn  the  stick  ; 

The  stick  began  to  beat  the  dog  ; 

The  dog  began  to  bite  the  pig  ; 
The  little  pig  in  a  fright  jumped  over  the  stile  ; 
So  the  old  woman  got  home  that  night  ! 


A   FROG   HE   WOULD   A-WOOING   GO. 

A  Frog  he  would  a-wooing  go, 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
Whether  his  mother  would  let  him  or  no. 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 
Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 


CHILDRKX'S  S()X(;S  AND  BALLADS.       12.3 

So  oft"  lie  set  in  his  coat  and  hat, 

Heigho^  says  Roly  ! 
And  on  the  way  he  met  a  Rat, 

With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  s])inach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

"  Please,  Mr.  Rat,  will  you  go  with  me  ?  " 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
"  Good  Mrs.  Moiisie  for  to  see  ?  " 

With  a  roly-j)oly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

When  they  came  to  the  door  of  Mousie's  hole, 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
They  gave  a  loud  knock,  and  they  gave  a  loud  call. 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

"  Please,  Mrs.  Mouse,  are  you  within  t  " 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
"  Oh  yes,  dear  sirs,  I  am  sitting  to  spin," 
With  a  roly-})oly,  gammon  and  spinach, 
Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

"Please,  Mrs.  Mouse,  will  you  give  us  some  beer?" 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
"  For  Froggy  and  I  are  fond  of  good  cheer," 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

"Please,  Mr.  Frog,  will  you  give  us  a  song  .^ " 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
"But  let  it  be  something  that's  not  very  long," 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 


[04      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

But  while  they  were  making  a  terrible  din, 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
The  cat  and  her  kittens  came  tumbling  in, 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

The  cat  she  seized  Mr.  Rat  by  the  crown, 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
The  kittens  they  pulled  Mrs.  Mousie  down. 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

This  })ut  Mr.  Frog  in  a  terrible  fright, 

Heigho,  says  Roly  I 
He  took  up  his  hat  and  he  wished  them  good-night. 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

But  as  Froggy  was  crossing  over  a  brook, 

Heigho,  says  Roly  ! 
A  lily-white  duck  came  and  swallowed  him  up. 
With  a  roly-poly,  gammon  and  spinach, 

Heigho,  says  Anthony  Roly  ! 

There  are  various  versions  of  the  above  narrative  of  a 
sadly  disastrous  expedition,  in  English  and  in  Scotch 
alike.  The  Ballad  Book,  a  curious  collection,  of  which 
thirty  copies  only  were  printed,  in  1824,  embraces  one 
beginning : — 

There  lived  a  Puddy  in  a  well. 

Cuddy  alone.  Cuddy  alone  ; 
There  lived  a  Puddy  in  a  well. 

Cuddy  alone  and  L 


I 


CHILDRKX'S  SONGS  AM)  BALLADS.       IJ.", 

TIk'Iv  lived  a  Piiddy  in  a  well, 
And  a  Mousie  in  a  mill  ; 
Kickmaleerie,  cowden  down, 
Cuddy  alone  and  L 

Piiddy  he'd  a-wooin'  ride, 

Cuddy  alone.  Cuddy  alone  ; 
Sword  and  pistol  by  his  side. 

Cuddy  alone  and  L 
Puddy  came  to  the  Mousie's  home  ; 
"Mistress  Mouse,  are  you  within  ?  " 
Kickmaleerie,  cowden  down, 

Cuddy  alone  and  L 

And  which  goes  forward  narrating  the  almost  iden- 
tically same  story  :  which  story,  homely  and  simple 
as  it  appears,  is  of  surprising  antiquity.  In  1580,  the 
Stationers'  Comjjany  licensed  "  a  ballad  of  a  most 
strange  wedding  of  the  frogge  and  the  mouse  ;  "  and 
that  same  ballad  Dr.  Robert  Chambers  printed  from  a 
small  quarto  manuscript  of  poems  formerly  in  the 
possession  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  dated  1 630.  This  very 
old  version  begins  : — 

Itt  was  ye  frog  in  ye  wall, 

Humble  doune,  humble  doune  ; 

And  ye  mirrie  mouse  in  ye  mill, 
Tweidle,  tweidle,  twino. 

And  the  closing  lines  tell  that 

Quhen  ye  supper  they  war  at. 
The  frog,  mouse,  and  evin  ye  ratt. 

There  com  in  Gib  our  cat. 

And  chaught  ye  mouse  evin  by  ye  back. 


126      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

Then  did  they  all  seperat^ 

And  ye  frog  lap  on  ye  floor  so  flat. 

Then  in  com  Dick  our  drack^ 
And  drew  ye  frog  evin  to  ye  lack. 

Ye  rat  ran  up  ye  wall^ 

A  goodlie  companie^  ye  devall  goe  with  all. 

Of  meaner  antiquity,  perhaps,  but  no  less  a  favourite 
with  the  young,  is  the  amusing  ditty  of 

THE   CARRION   CROW. 

A  Carrion  Crow  sat  on  an  oak, 

Fol  de  riddle,  lol  de  riddle,  eye  ding  do. 

Watching  a  tailor  shape  his  coat ; 

Sing  he,  sing  ho,  the  old  carrion  crow, 
Fol  de  riddle,  lol  de  riddle,  eye  ding  do  ! 

Wife,  bring  me  my  old  bent  bow, 

Fol  de  riddle,  lol  de  riddle,  eye  ding  do. 

That  I  may  shoot  yon  carrion  crow  ; 
Sing  he,  sing  ho,  the  old  carrion  crow, 
Fol  de  riddle,  lol  de  riddle,  eye  ding  do  ! 

The  tailor  shot,  and  missed  his  mark, 
Fol  de  riddle,  lol  de  riddle,  eye  ding  do. 

But  shot  the  pig  right  through  the  heart ; 
Sing  he,  sing  ho,  the  old  carrion  crow, 
Fol  de  riddle,  lol  de  riddle,  eye  ding  do. 

The  next,  though  it  has  engaged  the  attention  of 
tlie  adult  population,  is  a  prime  old-time  favourite  with 
the  children  as  well. 


I 


CHILDRKN'S  SOXGS  AND  JJALLADS.       127 

MY  prp:tty  maid. 

"  Where  are  you  going*  to^  my  pretty  maid  ?  " 
"  I  am  going  a-milking,  sir,"  she  said. 

"  May  I  go  with  you,  my  pretty  maid  ?  " 
"  You're  kindly  welcome,  sir,"  she  said. 

"  What  is  your  father,  my  pretty  maid  ?  " 
"  My  father's  a  farmer,  sir,"  she  said. 

"  What  is  your  fortune,  my  pretty  maid  }  " 
"  My  face  is  my  fortune,  sir,"  she  said. 

"  Then  I  won't  marry  you,  my  pretty  maid." 
"  Nobody  asked  you,  sir,"  she  said. 

The  original  of  the  following,  which  has  delighted 
particularly  the  children  of  Scotland  for  many  genera- 
tions, appears  with  its  pleasing  air  in  Johnson's 
Musical  Museum  : — 

CAN   YOU   SEW   CUSHIONS.? 

O  can  ye  sew  cushions  ? 

Or  can  ye  sew  sheets  ? 
An'  can  ye  sing  ba-la-loo 

When  the  bairnie  greets  } 

An'  hee  an'  ba,  birdie. 

An'  hee  an'  ba,  lamb. 
Ah'  hee  an'  ba,  birdie. 

My  bonnie  wee  man. 

Hee  O,  wee  O,  what'll  I  do  wi'  ye  ? 

Black  is  the  life  that  I  lead  wi'  ye  ; 

Owre  mony  o'  ye,  little  to  gie  ye, 

Hee  O,  wee  O,  what'll  I  do  wi'  ye  } 

I 
I 
/ 


128      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

Now  hush-a-ba,  lammie. 

An'  hiish-a-ba^  dear  ; 
Now  hush-a-ba,  lammie^ 

Thy  minnie  is  here^ 
The  wild  wind  is  ravin', 

Thy  minnie's  heart's  sair  ; 
The  wild  wind  is  ravin'^ 

An'  ye  dinna  care. 

Hee  O,  wee  O,  etc. 

Sing  ba-la-loo^  lamniie, 

Sing  bo-la-loo,  dear  ; 
Does  wee  lammie  ken 

That  his  daddie's  no  here  } 
Ye're  rockin'  fii'  sweetly 

On  mammie's  warm  knee. 
But  daddie's  a-rockin' 

Upon  the  saiit  sea. 

Hee  O,  wee  O,  etc. 

O  I  hung  thy  cradle 

On  yon  holly  top, 
An'  aye  as  the  wind  blew 

Thy  cradle  did  rock. 
An'  hush-a-ba,  baby, 

O  ba-lilly-loo  ; 
An'  hee  an'  ba,  birdie. 

My  bonnie  wee  doo  ! 

Hee  O,  wee  O,  etc. 

We  see  continually  how  dear  to  the  songs  of  child- 
Kfe  are  the  mention  of  birds  and  all  things  sweet  in  the 
round  of  everyday  life.     Here  now 


CHILDRKN'S  SOXCiS  AND  liALI.ADS.       It'f) 

HUSH-A-15A   IMRDIK,  CROON. 

Hush-a-ba  birdie,  croon,  croon, 
Hush-a-ba  birdie,  croon ; 

The  sheep  are  gane  to  the  silver  wood, 

And  the  coos  are  gane  to  the  broom,  broom, 
And  the  coos  are  gane  to  the  broom. 

And  its  braw  milking-  the  kye,  kye. 

It's  braw  milking  the  kye  ; 
The  birds  are  singing,  the  bells  are  ringing. 

The  wild  deer  come  galloping  by,  by. 

The  wild  deer  come  galloping  by. 

And  hush-a-ba  birdie,  croon,  croon, 

Hush-a-ba  birdie,  croon  ; 
The  gaits  are  gane  to  the  mountain  hie. 

And  they  11  no  be  hame  till  noon. 

And  they'll  no  be  hame  till  noon. 

A  prime  favourite — none  excelling  it — has  been 

dancp:  to  your  daddie. 

Dance  to  your  daddie. 

My  bonnie  laddie. 
Dance  to  your  daddie,  my  bonnie  lamb  ; 

And  ye'll  get  a  fishie. 

In  a  little  dishie, 
Ye'll  get  a  fishie  when  the  boat  comes  hame  I 

Dance  to  your  daddie. 
My  bonnie  laddie. 
Dance  to  your  daddie,  my  bonnie  lamb  ! 


130      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

And  ye'll  ^et  a  coatie^ 
And  a  pair  o'  breekies — 
Ye'll  get  a  whippie  and  a  supple  Tarn  ! 

By  the  bye^  as  touching  the  lullaby  order  of  these 
songs^  it  is  interesting  to  note  that,  no  matter  of  what 
age  or  nation  they  may  be,  they  are  all  but  regularly 
made  uj)  on  }:)recisely  the  same  plan.  There  is  first  the 
appeal  to  the  child  to  slumber,  or  to  rest  and  be  happy  ; 
then  comes  the  statement  that  the  father  is  away  fol- 
lowing some  toilsome  occupation ;  and  the  promise 
succeeds  that  he  will  soon  return  laden  with  the  fruits 
of  his  labour,  and  all  will  be  well.  We  have  been 
seeing,  and  will  see  again,  how  the  Scottish  go.  The 
Norwegian  mother  sings  : — 

Row,  row  to  Baltnarock, 
How^  many  fish  caught  in  the  net  ? 
One  for  father  and  one  for  mother. 
One  for  sister  and  one  for  brother. 

Even  the  Hottentot  mother  promises  her  child  that 
its  '^'^  dusky  sire"  shall  bring  it  "^shells  from  yonder 
shore,"  where  he  has  probably  been  occupied  in  turning 
turtles  over  on  their  broad  backs.  The  Breton  song 
goes  : — 

Fais  dado,  pauvre,  p'tit  Pierrot, 
Papa  est  sur  I'eau 
Qui  fait  des  bateaux 
Pour  le  p'tit  Pierrot. 

The  Swedish  cradle  song  follows  the  almost  universal 
custom.      It  runs  (in  ILnglish)  : — 


CHILDRKN'S  SONCJS  AM)  15ALLADS.       I'll 

Hush,  hush,  baby  mine  ! 
Pussy  cHmbs  the  big-  green  })ine;, 
Ma  turns  the  mill  stone. 
Pa  to  kill  the  jHg  has  gone. 

The  Danish  does  not  prove  an  exception  : — 

Lullaby,  sweet  baby  mine  ! 
Mother  s{)ins  the  thread  so  fine  ; 
Father  o'er  the  bridge  has  gone, 
Shoes  he'll  buy  for  little  John. 

The  North  German  cradle  song  is  : — 

Schlaf  Kindchen,  schlaf ! 
Dein  Vater  hut't  die  schaf ; 
Dein  Mutter  schuttelts  Baumelien, 
Da  fallt  herab  ein  Tramelein, 
Schlaf,  Kindchen,  schlaf ! 

Which,  being  done  into  English,  runs  : — 

Sleep,  baby,  sleep ! 
Thy  father  guards  the  sheep  ; 
The  mother  shakes  the  dreamland  tree. 
And  from  it  falls  sweet  dreams  for  thee. 
Sleep,  baby,  sleep. 

The  simplest  and  crudest  of  these,  we  may  be  sure, 
has  lulled  millions  to  sleej),  and  by  virtue  of  that 
association  is  worth  more  than  many  quartos  of  recent 
verse  deliberately  composed  with  the  view  of  engaging 
the  attention  of  the  nursery  circle.  How  many 
volumes  of  the  newer  wares,  for  instance,  might  be 
accepted  in  exchange  for 


132      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 


KATIE  BEARDIE. 

Katie  Beardie  had  a  coo^ 

Black  and  white  about  the  mou'  ; 

Wasna  that  a  dentie  coo  ? 

Dance,  Katie  Beardie  ! 

Katie  Beardie  had  a  hen, 
Cackled  but  an'  cackled  ben  ; 
Wasna  that  a  dentie  hen  ? 

Dance,  Katie  Beardie  ! 

Katie  Beardie  had  a  cock 

That  could  s})in  a  gude  tow  rock  ; 

Wasna  that  a  dentie  cock  ? 

Dance,  Katie  Beardie  ! 

Katie  Beardie  had  a  grice, 
It  could  skate  upon  the  ice  ; 
Wasna  that  a  dentie  grice  ? 

Dance,  Katie  Beardie  ! 

Katie  Beardie  had  a  wean. 
That  was  a'  her  lovin'  ain  ; 
Wasna  that  a  dentie  wean  ? 

Dance,  Katie  Beardie  ! 

Yet,  there  is  tolerable  proof  extant  that  the  above  dates 
from  at  least  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
"  Katherine  Beardie,"  anyway,  is  the  name  affixed  to 
an  air  in  a  manuscript  musical  collection  w^hich  be- 
longed to  the  Scottish  poet.  Sir  William  Mure,  of 
Rowallan,  written,  presumably,  between  the  years 
1612  and   1628.     The  same   tune,  under  the  name  of 


CHILDKKX'S  SONCiS  AM)  BALLADS.       I'.VA 

"  Kette  Bairdie,"  also  appears  in  a  similar  collection 
\vhich  belonged  to  Sir  John  Skene  of  Hallyards,  siip- 
])osed  to  have  been  written  about  1  (vif).  Further, 
so  well  did  Sir  Walter  Seott  know  that  this  was  a 
))0})ular  dance  during  the  reign  of  King  James  V'L, 
as  Mr.  Dawney  points  out,  that  he  introduces  it  in 
the  Fortunes  of  yigel,  with  this  difference,  that  it  is 
there  called  "  Chrichty  Bairdie,"  a  name  not  precisely 
identical  with  that  here  given  ;  but  as  Kit  is  a  diminu- 
tive of  Christopher,  it  is  not  difficult  to  perceive  how 
the  two  came  to  be  confounded.  Old  as  it  certainly 
is — and  older  by  a  deal  it  may  be  than  these  presents 
indicate — it  maintains  yet  the  charm  of  youth — delight- 
ing all  with  its  lightly  tripping  numbers.  No  less 
does — 

THE  MILLER'S  DOCHTER. 

There  was  a  miller's  dochter, 

She  wadna  want  a  baby,  O  ; 
She  took  her  father's  grey  hound 

An'  row'd  it  in  a  plaidie,  O. 

Singing,  Hush-a-ba  !   hush-a-ba  ! 

Hush-a-ba,  my  baby,  O  ! 
An  'twere  na  for  you  lang  beard, 

I  wad  kiss  your  gabbie,  O  I 

While  bedding  operations  have  been  in  progress  no 
song,  surely,  has  been  more  welcome  and  effective  than 

HAP  AND   ROW. 

Haj)  and  row,  hap  and  row, 
Haj)  and  row  the  feetie  o't ; 

I  never  kent  I  had  a  bairn 
Until  I  heard  the  greetie  o't. 


134      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

The  wife  put  on  the  wee  pan 
To  boil  the  bairn's  meatie,  O^ 

When  down  fell  a  cinder 
And  biu-n't  a'  its  feetie^  O. 

Hap  and  row,  hap  and  row. 
Hap  and  row  the  feetie  o't ; 

I  never  kent  I  had  a  bairn 
Until  I  heard  the  greetie  o't. 

Sandy's  mither  she  came  in 

As  sune's  she  heard  the  greetie  o't, 

She  took  the  mutcli  frae  aff  her  head 
And  rowed  it  round  the  feetie  o't. 

Hap  and  row,  hap  and  row,  etc. 

In  about  equal  favour  stands 

HOW  DAN,  DILLY  DOW. 

How  dan,  dilly  dow. 

Hey  dow,  dan, 
Weel  were  ye're  minnie. 

An'  ye  were  a  man. 

Ye  wad  liunt  an'  hawk, 
An'  baud  her  o'  game. 

An'  water  your  daddie's  horse 
When  he  cam'  hame. 

How  dan,  dilly  dow, 

Hey  dan,  floors, 
Ye'se  lie  i'  your  bed 

Till  eleven  hours. 


CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  HAI.LADS.       1.S5 

If  at  eleven  hours 

You  list  to  rise, 
Ye'se  hae  your  dinner  dU^ht 

In  a  new  guise. 

Laverocks'  le^i^s, 

And  titlins'  taes. 
And  a'  sic  dainties 

My  niannie  shall  hae. 

A  cheery  and  comfortinii^  lilt,  indeed,  with  its  promise 
of  plenty.  Much  superior  to  the  next,  which  bears  in 
its  bosom  the  hollow^  and  unwelcome  ring  of  a  ''  toom 
o'irnal " — a  sound  no  child  should  ever  know.  It  is 
yet  a  lilt  familiar  to  the  nursery  : — 

CROWDIE. 

Oh,  that  I  had  ne'er  been  married, 

I  wad  never  had  nae  care  ; 
Now  I've  gotten  wife  and  bairns. 

They  cry  Crowdie  !  ever  mair. 

Crowdie  ance,  crowdie  twice. 

Three  times  crowdie  in  a  day  ; 
Gin  ye  crowdie  ony  mair, 

Ye'll  crowdie  a'  my  meal  away. 

Quoting  the  stanzas  as  an  old  ballad  in  a  letter  to 
his  friend,  Mrs.  Dunlop,  in  December,  I79<>j,  the  poet 
Burns  wrote  : — "  There  had  much  need  to  be  many 
pleasures  annexed  to  the  states  of  husband  and  father, 
for,  God  knows,  they  have  many  peculiar  cares.  I 
cannot  describe  to  you  the  anxious,  slee})less  hours 
these  ties  frequently  give  me.      I  see  a  train  of  helpless 


1'A6      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

little  folks  ;  me  and  my  exertions  all  their  stay  ;  and 
on  what  a  brittle  thread  does  the  life  of  man  hang  ! 
If  I  am  nipt  off  at  the  command  of  Fate,  even  in  all 
the  vigour  of  manhood,  as  I  am — such  things  happen 
e\ery  dav — Gracious  God  !  what  would  become  of  my 
little  flock?  'Tis  here  that  I  envy  your  jieople  of 
fortune.  A  father  on  his  death-bed,  taking  an  ever- 
lasting leave  of  his  children,  has  indeed  woe  enough  ; 
but  the  man  of  competent  fortune  leaves  his  sons  and 
daughters  independency  and  friends  ;  while  I — but  I 
shall  run  distracted  if  I  think  any  longer  on  the 
subject !  "  So  might  we  all.  Then,  away  with  it,  and 
let  us  have  a  more  lightsome  spring. 

WHISTLE.  WHISTLE,  AULD  WIFE. 

"Whistle,  whistle,  auld  wife. 

An'  ye'se  get  a  hen." 
"  I  wadna  whistle,"  quo'  the  wife, 

''  Though  ye  wad  gi'e  me  ten." 

"  Whistle,  whistle,  auld  wife, 

An'  ye'se  get  a  cock." 
"  I  wadna  whistle,"  quo'  the  wife, 

"  Though  ye'd  gi'e  me  a  flock." 

"  Wliistle,  whistle,  auld  wife. 

And  ye'se  get  a  goun." 
"  I  wadna  whistle,"  quo'  the  wife, 

"^  For  the  best  ane  i'  the  toun." 

"  Whistle,  whistle,  auld  wife. 

An'  ye'se  get  a  coo." 
"  I  wadna  whistle,"  quo'  the  wife, 

"  Though  ye  wad  gi'e  me  two." 


CHILDREN'S  SONdS  AM)  IJALLADS.       i;;7 

''  Whistle,  whistle,  aiild  wife, 

An'  ye'se  get  a  man." 
"  JVhceplc-u'hauph' ,''  quo'  the  wife, 

''  I'll  whistle  as  I  can." 

Sung  with  vocal  miniieiy,  the  above  makes  a  strikingly 
effective  entertainment. 

The  sonji'  of  ''  The  Three  Little  Pi<>s  "  embraces  a 
palpable  moral,  which  not  children  alone  w^ould  be  the 
better  for  taking  to  heart.  I  wish  I  could  sing  it  for 
you,  my  reader,  as  I  have  heard  Mr.  Tom  Hunt,  the 
Avell-known  animal  painter,  sing  it  in  social  circles  in 
<jHasgow  : — 

THE   THREE    LITTLE    PIGS. 

A  jolly  old  sow  once  lived  in  a  sty. 

And  three  little  piggies  had  she  ; 
And  she  waddled  about  saying,    "  grumph  !  grumph  ! 
grumph  !  " 

While  the  little  ones  said  "  wee  !  wee  !  " 

And  she  waddled  about  saying,    ''  grumph  I   grumph  ! 
grumph  I  " 
While  the  little  ones  said  "  wee  !  wee  !  " 

"  My  dear  little  piggies,"  said  one  of  the  brats, 

"  My  dear  little  brothers,"  said  he, 
^^  Let  us  all  for  the  future   say,     '  grumph  !    grumph  ! 
grumph  !  * 

'Tis  so  childish  to  say,  '^wee  !  w'ee  ! '  " 

Let  us  all,  etc. 

lo 


138      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

These  three  Httle  piggies  grew  skinny  and  lean^ 

And  lean  they  might  very  well  be^ 
For  somehow  they  couldn't   say  '^grumph  I    grumph  ! 
grumph  !  " 

And  they  wouldn't  say  ''  wee  !  wee  !  " 

For  somehow^  etc. 

So  after  a  time  these  little  pigs  died^ 

They  all  died  of  fe-lo-de-see^ 
From   trying   too    hard    to    say    ^'  grumph  !     grumph ! 
grumph  !  " 

When  they  only  could  say  "wee  !  wee  !  " 

From  trying,  etc. 

A  moral  there  is  to  this  little  song, 

A  moral  that's  easy  to  see  : 
Don't    try    when    you're    young    to    say    '^  grumph  ! 
grumph  !    grumph  !  " 
When  you  only  can  say  '^  wee  !   wee  !  " 
Don't    try    when    you're    young    to    say    '^  grumph  ! 
grumph  !    grumph  !  " 
When  you  onh^  can  say  "^  wee  !  wee  !  " 

Another  delectable  song  for  children — also  of  a  subtly 
didactic  character — is 


COWE   THE   NETTLE   EARLY. 

Gin  ye  be  for  lang  kail^ 
Cowe  the  nettle,  stoo  the  nettle  : 
Gin  ye  be  for  lang  kail, 
Cowe  the  nettle  earh'. 


CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS.       L'J(> 

Cowe  it  laich,  cowe  it  sune, 
Cowe  it  in  the  month  o'  June  ; 
Stoo  it  ere  it's  in  the  bloom, 
Cowe  tlie  nettle  early. 

Cowe  it  by  the  old  wa's, 
Cowe  it  where  the  sun  ne'er  fa's, 
Stoo  it  when  the  day  daws, 
Cowe  the  nettle  early. 

Auld  heuk  wi'  no  ae  tooth, 
Cowe  the  nettle,  stoo  the  nettle  ; 
Auld  gluive  wi'  leather  loof, 
Cow  e  the  nettle  early. 

The  following-  curious  song,  which  Mrs.  Burns,  the 
wife  of  the  poet,  Avas  fond  of  crooning  to  her  children, 
is  not  yet  without  some  vogue  outwith  the  printed 
page — though  mainly  in  this  verse,  the  place  of  which, 
by  the  bye,  would  be  difficult  to  fix  in  the  song  as 
printed  by  Herd  : — 

The  robin  cam'  to  the  wren's  door. 

And  keekit  in,  and  keekit  in  : 
O,  blessings  on  your  bonnie  pow. 

Wad  ye  be  in,  wad  ye  be  in  ? 
I  wadna  let  you  lie  thereout. 

And  I  within,  and  I  within. 
As  lang's  I  hae  a  Avarm  clout. 

To  row  ye  in,  to  row  ye  in. 

To  students  of  Burns  it  will  ever  be  of  prime  interest 
from  the  fact  that  its  air,  as  played  by  Miss  Jessie 
Lewars  to  the  poet  only  a  few  days  before  his  death, 
supplied  the   hint   for   his   most  tender  and  touching 


140      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

lyricj  "  O  Wert  thou  in  the  Cauld  Blast."      Herd  prints 
it  thus  : — 

THE   WREN'S    NEST. 

The  wren  scho  lyes  in  care's  bed. 

In  care's  bed,  in  care's  bed  : 
The  wren  scho  lyes  in  care's  bed, 

Wi'  nieikle  dule  and  pyne,  O. 

Wlien  in  cam'  Robin  Redbreist, 

Redbreist,  Redbreist  : 
When  in  cam'  Robin  Redbreist^ 

Wi'  succar-saps  and  wine,  O. 

Now,  maiden,  will  ye  taste  o'  this. 

Taste  o'  this,  taste  o'  this  ; 
Now,  maiden,  will  ye  taste  o'  this, 

It's  succar  saps  and  wine,  O  ? 

Na,  ne'er  a  drap,  Robin, 

Robin,  Robin  : 
Na,  ne'er  a  drap,  Robin, 

Though  it  were  ne'er  sae  fine,  O. 

And  where's  the  ring  that  I  gied  ye. 
That  I  gied  ye,  that  I  gied  ye  : 

And  where's  the  ring  that  I  gied  ye. 
Ye  little  cutty-quean,  O  ? 

I  gied  it  till  an  ox-ee. 

An  ox-ee,  an  ox-ee  ; 
I  gied  it  till  an  ox-ee, 

A  true  sweetheart  o'  mine,  O. 


I 


CHILDRKN'S  SONGS  AM)  JiALLADS.       ill 

We  began  with  the  robin  in  tliis,  I  liope,  not  wearisome 
but  entertaining  Melange  of  eliild-songs.  VVe  have 
never,  indeed^  got  at  any  time  far  away  from  the  lively 
and  interesting  little  fellow  ;  and^  that  being  so,  perhaps 
no  item  et)uld  more  fittingly  close  the  series  than  the 
very  old  song  of 


ROBIN  REDBREAST'S  TESTAMENT. 

Chide-day  now^  bonnie  Robin^ 
How  long  have  you  been  here  ? 

I've  been  bird  about  this  bush 
This  mair  than  twenty  year  ! 

But  now  I  am  the  sickest  bird 

That  ever  sat  on  brier ; 
And  I  wad  mak'  my  testament^ 

Gudeman,  if  ye  wad  hear. 

Gae  tak'  this  bonnie  neb  o'  mine^ 

That  picks  upon  the  corn  ; 
And  gie't  to  the  Duke  o'  Hamilton 

To  be  a  hunting-horn. 

Gae  tak'  these  bonnie  feathers  o'  mine. 

The  feathers  o'  my  neb  ; 
And  gi'e  to  the  Lady  o'  Hamilton 

To  fill  a  feather-bed. 


Gae  tak'  this  gude  richt  leg  o'  mine^ 
And  mend  the  brig  o'  Tay ; 


It  will  be  a  post  and  pillar  gude- 
Will  neither  bow  nor  gae. 


142      CHILDREN'S  SONGS  AND  BALLADS. 

And  tak'  this  other  leg  o'  mine, 
And  mend  the  brig  o'  Weir ; 

It  will  be  a  post  and  pillar  gude — 
Will  neither  bow  nor  steer. 

Gae  tak'  thae  bonnie  feathers  o'  mine. 

The  feathers  o'  my  tail : 
And  gie  to  the  lads  o'  Hamilton 

To  be  a  barn-flail. 

And  tak'  thae  bonnie  feathers  o'  mine^ 

The  feathers  o'  my  breast : 
And  gie  to  ony  bonnie  lad 

Will  bring  to  me  a  priest. 

Now  in  there  came  my  Lady  Wren 
Wi'  mony  a  sigh  and  groan  :  ^ 

O  what  care  I  for  a'  the  lads 
If  my  ain  lad  be  gone  ! 

Then  Robin  turned  him  roimdaboiit_, 

E'en  like  a  little  king  ; 
Go,  pack  ye  out  o'  my  chamber-door. 

Ye  little  cutty  quean  ! 

Robin  made  his  testament 

Upon  a  coll  of  hay  ; 
And  by  cam'  a  greedy  gled 

And  snapt  him  a'  away. 


CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR  AND 
QUAINT  SAYINGS. 


-*• 


The  humours  of  little  folks^  fresh  and  original^  and 
invariably  of  the  unconscious  variety^  and  their  quaint 
sayings^  unrehearsed  and  uttered  regularh'  without 
regard  to  effect — though  with  merciless  honesty  often 
-form  a  never-palling  treat ;  and  every  man  and 
woman  who  has  reared  a  family,  or  has  had  joy  in  the 
society  of  other  people's  children,  has  his  and  her  own 
budget,  comprising  tit-bits  at  once  interesting,  startling, 
and  amusing.  When  occasion  has  saved  us  from  the 
foolishly  doting  parent  who  is  everlastingly  prosing 
about  the  very  clever  things  his  own  little  Johnnie  has 
said  or  done,  I  have  seldom  found  greater  enjoyment 
of  a  mixed  company  than  when  the  queer  sayings  of 
children  went  round  the  board,  and  we  had  "  recollec- 
tions," by  suggestion,  of  things  which  perhaps  had 
been  better  left  unsaid,  as  also  of  things  which  had 
been  more  agreeably  expressed  if  differently  worded  ; 
3^et  all  so  honestly  set  forth  that  even  the  ''  victims  " 
could  not  help  but  enjoy  them  in  some  measure. 
Children  accept  all  statements  so  implicitly,  and,  with 
their  quick-working  wits,  they  reason  so  straight- 
forwardly, that  the  apj^lication  when  voiced  comes  at 
times  with  a  bang  sufficient  to  take  one's  breath  away. 


144.  CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR. 

Given  this  and  that,  however,  an  appUcation  is  un- 
avoidable. As  hef  set  fire  behind  powder  in  a  gun  and 
expect  there  will  be  no  report.  A  mite  of  five,  thus, 
will  on  occasion  utter  a  syllogism  that  would  not  dis- 
credit a  professor  of  logic,  or  will  put  a  question  to 
which  a  whole  college  of  theologians  might  not  venture 
an  answer.  A  little  lady  of  my  acquaintance  who  had 
not  yet  seen  her  fourth  birthday,  was  one  morning  told 
by  her  mother  that  she  could  not  get  out  to  play — the 
frost  was  too  severe.  "  Who  makes  the  frost,  ma  ?  " 
w^as  asked.  "^  God,  dear."  "  What  does  He  make 
frost  for.-^"  '^^  To  kill  the  worms."  ^^  And  why  does 
He  make  worms,  and  has  to  make  frost  to  kill  them  ? " 
This  was  a  sufficient  poser,  but  the  mother  continued, 
"  The  M  orms  have  to  be  killed,  else  they  would  eat  the 
roots  of  all  the  plants  and  flowers."  The  little  lady 
reflected,  then  gravely  asked,  "  But  does  God  kill  the 
wee  chicky  worms  that  never  eated  any  roots  }  "  The 
mother  did  not  answer,  but  looked  now  even  more 
grave  than  the  child.  The  same  little  miss  was 
listening  one  evening  to  a  newspaper  report  being  read, 
which  told  how  a  man  in  a  storm  of  wind  had  been 
blown  with  a  ladder  from  a  house-top  in  Glasgow,  and 
was  killed.  '^  Who  makes  the  wind  .^  "  she  asked 
sharply.  She  was  told.  '^And  does  God  make  the 
bad  winds  that  kills  the  mans  ? "  was  demanded. 
There  was  no  reply ;  but  she  read  the  silence  as 
meaning  ''yes,"  and  turning  to  leave  the  room  she 
muttered  more  to  herself  than  otherwise,  ''  When  I  die 
and  go  to  Heaven  I'll  not  sit  beside  God."  When 
repeating  the  Pater-noster  one  evening  she  stuck  at  the 
first  sentence,  and  wanted  to  know  ''  If  God  is  our 
Father  in  Heaven  who  is  our  Mother  in  Heaven }  " 
But    the    mother    was    saved    this  time  by  the  inter- 


I 


CHILDUKNS    HLMOLU.  11.-; 

j)o.sition  of  the  little  one  s  elder  brother,  who,  with 
stern  emphasis,  exelaimed,  '"  Stupid  !  Ciod's  wife,  of 
eourse.  "  A  little  bov-relative  of  that  girl  retiiriu-d 
from  school  one  day,  while  he  was  but  a  })upil  in  the 
infant  department,  and  ste})pino-  proudly  up  to  where 
his  father  was  seated,  "■  Pa,"  he  exclaimed,  "  I  am  the 
cleverest  boy  in  the  class."  "  Indeed,"  returned  the 
parent,  "^  I  am  proud  to  hear  that ;  but  who  said  it  ?  " 
"•  The  teacher."  "  If  the  teacher  said  so,  it  surely 
must  be  true.  What  did  she  say,  though } ''  "  She 
said,  '  Stand  up  the  cleverest  boy  in  the  class,'  and  I 
stood  up."  The  same  little  fellow  was  on  the  way  to 
school  with  a  friend  one  morning,  towards  the  end  of 
December,  when  the  two  were  attracted  by  the  ap- 
pearance of  a  sweep  on  the  chimney  of  a  neighbouring 
building.  '^  I  ken  what  that  man's  doin'  up  there, '  he 
asserted ;  "'  he's  sweepin'  the  lums  for  Santa  Claus  to 
get  doon."  And  that  recalls  the  story  I  once  heard  of 
a  little  man  in  the  Carse  of  Gowrie.  It  happened  on 
an  evening  towards  the  close  of  the  year,  as  he  was 
prej^aring  for  bed,  and  was  sitting  by  the  fire  with  his 
first  liberated  stocking  in  his  hand,  that  he  looked  over 
to  his  mother,  and  '^  Mither,'  he  asked,  "  will  I  get  a 
pair  o'  new  stockin's  before  Christmas  .^ "  "  Maybe, 
laddie  ;  but  what  gars  ye  speir  ?  "  "^  Because  " — and 
he  spoke  mournfully,  as  he  stuck  his  fingers  through  a 
large  hole  in  the  toe — "  if  Santa  Claus  puts  onything 
intil  thir  anes,  it'll  fa'  oot."  How  cleverly  they  reason, 
you  see  !  '^'  Bring  me  a  drink  o'  water,  Johnnie/'  was 
the  order  delivered  by  a  Perthshire  farmer  to  his  little 
son  one  day  a  good  many  years  ago.  The  boy  went  to 
do  as  he  was  asked,  but  the  water-stoup  had  been 
nearly  empty,  and,  as  he  was  aj^proaching  his  })arent 
with  the  liquid,  he  paused  and  peered  doubtfully  into 


146  CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR. 

the  hand-vessel^  then,  as  if  suddenly  insph-ed  by  a 
happy  tlionght,  "  Will  I  put  meal  in't,  father  ? "  he 
asked.  "  No."  ''  Oh,  weel,  then  " — and  he  turned  to 
go  back — "  ye'll  need  to  wait  till  somebody  gangs  to 
the  well."  But  to  return  to  children  I  have  known  for 
yet  one  or  two  more  illustrations.  I  was  at  a  tea-table 
one  afternoon  where  the  company  was  mostly  composed 
of  the  smaller  fry,  and  an  incident,  important  to  all, 
was  mentioned,  which  had  happened  some  seven  or 
eight  years  before.  Several  of  the  older  children 
declared,  truthfully,  that  they  remembered  it  quite 
well.  "So  do  I  mind  o'  it,"  asserted  a  little  fellow 
about  five.  "  How  could  you  mind  o'  it  ?  "  questioned 
scornfully  an  older  brother;  "you  wasna  born  at  the 
time."  "  I  ken,''  as  scornfully  returned  the  younger 
theologian ;  "  I  was  dust  at  the  time  ;  but  I  mind  o'  it 
weel  enough."  Here  is  the  verbatim  copy  of  a  letter 
written  since  by  the  hand  of  that  same  boy — in  a 
country  village  in  Perthshire — where  he  has  been 
staying  continuously  for  several  years,  and  addressed 
to  his  father  in  Glasgow  : — "  Dear  Pa,  The  Rabbits  is 
all  dead.  Worried  with  dogs.  The  gold  fishes  is  dead. 
Died  with  the  cold.  The  cat  has  had  kittens,  four  of 
them,  and  the  rest  of  us  is  all  well."  The  remark  of  a 
prominent  Scottish  novelist  who  recently  passed  the 
epistle  through  his  hands  was — "  That  s  style,  the  most 
cris})  and  picturesque.  And  then — '  the  rest  of  us  ' — 
how  beautifully  innocent !  '' 

The  little  girl  of  a  friend  of  mind — while  still  of  very 
tender  years — was  first  taken  to  church  by  her  aunt. 
On  the  way  home,  and  soon  after  leaving  the  portals  of 
the  sacred  edifice,  she  looked  up  solemnly  in  her 
guardian's  face,  and,  "Auntie,"  she  asked,  "was  yon 
God  on  the  mantel-piece  ?  "     She  referred  doubtless  to 


t 
I 


CHILDHFA'S    HUMOUR.  I  l-T 

the  minister  in  the  })iil|)it.  Don't  think  of  irreverence, 
my  reader  !  Tlie  child,  in  its  atnios})liere  of  perfect 
innocence,  knows  not  tlie  word.  And  Ixar  tliat  in 
mind  further  when  1  tell  you  of  a  little  boy  and  <^irl 
both  of  whom  I  know  well — who  Avere  having  a  walk 
with  me  one  Sunday  in  early  Autumn,  when  suddenly 
a  railway  train  appeared  in  view.  A  train  on  Sunday  ! 
They  were  staggered  by  the  sight  ;  and  the  boy 
demanded  to  know  why  it  should  be  there.  "  Oh,  I 
know,"  exclaimed  the  girl,  after  some  reflection  ;  "  it'll 
be  God  coming  back  from  his  holidays."  The  question, 
"■'  Can  prayer  be  answered  }  "  may  be  often  discussed  by 
grown-up  minds.  It  is  never  raised  by  the  children. 
No  doubts  trouble  them  in  that  relation.  They  are 
quite  certain  they  will  get  what  they  ask  for.  I^erfect 
confidence  in  that  alone  could  have  made  it  possible  for 
a  certain  little  miss,  who,  when  being  put  to  bed  in  a 
tired  condition,  and  asked  to  say  her  prayer,  began  :  — 

"  This  night  I  lay  me  down  to  sleep, 
I  pray  the  Lord '' 

then  gave  a  long,  loud  yawn,  and  added,  "  Oh 
God,  I  am  awfully  sleepy — you  know  the  rest  ''— 
making  thus,  in  her  rude  simplicity,  a  finely  trustful 
and  beautiful  prayer.  "  Give  us  each  day  our  daily 
bread,"  was  the  honest  petition  of  a  little  fellow — who, 
however,  recalling  probably  some  recent  violent  ex- 
periences, immediately  added — "^  but  dinna  let  our 
Lizzie  bake  it."  An  elaborately-trained  little  fellow 
who  had  nightly  to  pray  for  blessings  on  '^  mamma,  and 
})apa,  grandpapa,  and  grandmamma,"  and  all  his  uncles, 
his  aunts,  and  his  cousins,  committing  each  by  name, 
after  exhausting  the  catalogue  one  evening,  heaved  a 
heavy  sigh  and  exclaimed  wearily,   '"  Oh,  dear,   I   wish 


148  CHILDREN'S    HUxMOLR. 

these  people  would  pray  for  themselves,  for  I  am  so 
tired  of  praying  for  them  all  I  " 

A  little  oirl,  whose  baby  brother  had  died,  was  told 
tliat  he  had  gone  to  Heaven,  and  that  night  she  refused 
to  pray — "  Take  me  to  Heaven  for  Jesus'  sake  "— 
because,  as  she  said,  "  I  don't  want  to  go  to  Heaven,  I 
want  to  stay  here,  with  ma,  and  pa,  and  dolly."  Were 
all  prayers  as  honest,  many  of  them,  I  suspect,  would 
be  much  shorter  than  they  are. 

I  have  heard  of  a  little  boy  who  was  continually 
being  told  that  he  should  be  good. 

"  And  if  I  am  gooder,  and  gooder,"  he  asked,  '^  what 
will  I  be  }  " 

''  Oh,  you  will  be  a  little  angel.  " 

'^  But  I  don't  want  to  be  an  angel,"  he  retorted  ; 
"  I  want  to  be  an  engine-driver."  They  are  never  else 
than  frank  in  their  statements.  A  mother  who  suffers 
from  severe  headaches,  said  to  her  little  girl  about 
eight,  one  day  not  long  ago,  ''  What  would  you  do, 
Lottie  dear,  if  your  darling  mother  was  taken  away 
from  you — if  she  died  ? "  '^'  Well,  mother,"  was  the 
little  one's  startling  answer,  "  I  suppose  we  would  cry 
at  first — then  we  would  bury  you,  and  then  we  would 
come  home  and  take  all  the  money  out  of  your  pocket." 
Now,  while  it  is  possible  that  something  else  might 
also  be  done,  it  is  almost  certain — yea,  it  is  certain, 
without  doubt — that  all  these  ceremonials,  however 
reluctantly,  would,  in  turn,  be  duly  performed. 

From  a  story  bearing  on  death  to  one  relating  to 
birth  is  a  transition  not  so  unnatural  as  may  at  the 
first  blush  appear.  And  births  are  affairs  ever  of 
prime  interest  to  children.  Not  many  years  ago  it 
happened  in  a  village  in  Perthshire  that  twins  arrived 
in  a  familv,  and  next  day  one  of  the  little  misses  of  the 


CHILDRFA'S    HUMOL'K.  I  !<) 

]i()use  was  out  on  the  street  j)layini2,\  when  a  neiiihl)oin-- 
ino-  lady  eanie  up  to  where  she  was,  and^  "  So  you've 
got  two  Httle  babies  at  home,  Bizzie,"  she  remarked. 
'^'^Yes,"  resj)onded  the  httle  one,  very  solemnly  ;  "^and 
do  you  know,  my  father  Avas  away  at  Edinburgh  when 
the  doetor  brought  them.  But  it  was  a  good  thing  my 
mother  was  in ;  for  if  she  hadna,  there  would  have 
been  naebody  in  the  house  but  me,  and  I  wadna  have 
kent  w^hat  to  do  wi'  them."  They  tell  this  delightful 
story  of  the  little  daughter  of  Professor  Van  Dyke,  of 
the  Philadelphia  University  : — 

"  Papa,  where  w  ere  you  born  ?  " 

"In  Boston,  my  dear." 

"  Where  was  mamma  born  }  " 

"In  San  Francisco." 

"  And  where  was  I  born  .^  " 

"  In  Philadelphia." 

"  Well,  pap,  isn't  it  funny  how  we  three  people  got 
together.^ " 

And  that  now  recalls  another  which  Mrs.  Keeley, 
the  actress,  tells  of  a  tradesman's  little  boy  who  was 
often  taken  to  stay  with  his  grandmother  and  grand- 
father— the  latter  a  very  feeble  old  man,  bald  and 
toothless.  This  little  fellow  was  told  that  his  fatiier 
and  mother  had  "bought  "  a  nice  new  baby  brother  for 
him.  The  little  man  was  much  interested  by  the  news, 
and  was  taken  to  see  the  new^  arrival.  He  looked  at  it 
with  astonishment  for  a  few  seconds,  then  remarked — 
"  Why,  he's  got  no  hair,  father  !  "  This  was  at  once 
admitted.  "And  he's  got  no  teeth,"  observed  the  boy 
again^  touching  another  fact  which  could  not  be  denied. 
Then  a  long  and  thoughtful  pause  ensued,  after  which 
the  little  critic  (who  had  probably  been  comparing  the 
baby  with  his  grandfather),  observed  confidentially — 


l.-)() 


CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR. 


"  I'll  tell  you  what,  father ;  if  they  called  hmi  a  new 
bab}^,  they've  taken  you  in — he's  an  old  'un  !  "  You 
cannot  easily  get  round  children.  And  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  suppress  them.  As  touching  this  fact  an 
excellent  story  is  told  of  our  present  King  and  his 
sister,  the  late  Empress  of  Germany,  when  they  were 

boy  and  girl.      Lord ,  who  had  a  deformed  foot, 

was  invited  to  Osborne ;  and  before  his  arrival  the 
Queen  and  Prince  Albert  debated  whether  it  would  be 
better  to  warn  the  Prince  of  Wales  and  the  Princess 
Royal  of  his  physical  calamity,  so  as  to  avoid  em- 
barrassing remarks,  or  to  leave  the  matter  to  their  own 
good  feeling.     The  latter  course  was  adopted.      Lord 

duly  arrived.     The  foot  elicited  no  remark  from 

the  Royal  children,  and  the  visit  passed  off  with  perfect 
success.     But  next  day  the  Princess  Royal  asked  the 

Queen,  "  Where  is  Lord .^  "     "  He  has  gone  back 

to  London,  dear."  '' Oh,  what  a  pity!  He  had  pro- 
mised to  show  Berty  and  me  his  foot !  "  The  enfants 
terrible  had  wilily  caught  his  lordship  in  the  corridor, 
and  made  their  own  terms. 

There  is  pleasure  in  telling  that  story  were  it  but 
for  the  revelation  it  affords  of  how  the  children  of 
Kings  and  Queens  are  animated  by  the  same  curiosities, 
and  may  act  at  times  so  like  the  children  of  the  com- 
monality. That  Royalt}^  again  may  be  moved  by  the 
action  or  word  of  a  child  of  common  birth  we  have 
many  pleasing  proofs.  One  is  pat.  A  late  King  of 
Prussia,  while  visiting  in  one  of  the  villages  of  his 
dominion,  was  welcomed  by  the  school  children. 
Their  sponsor  made  a  speech  for  them.  The  King 
thanked  them.  Then,  taking  an  orange  from  a  plate, 
he  asked — ^^To  what  kingdom  does  this  belong.?" 
''The  vegetable  kingdom,   sire,"   replied  a  little  girl. 


CHILDRKXS    HUMOUR.  i:>l 

Tlie  Kin<;'  next  took  a  gold  coin  from  liis  pocket,  and, 
lioklino-  it  up,  asked — "  And  to  what  king(k)ni  does 
this  belong  ?"  ^' To  the  mineral  kingdom,"  was  the 
reply.  "And  to  what  kingdom  do  I  belong,  then  .^  " 
asked  the  King.  The  little  girl  coloured  deeply  ;  for 
she  did  not  like  to  say  the  '^'^  animal  kingdom,"  as  he 
thought  she  would,  lest  His  Majesty  should  be  offended. 
But  just  then  it  flashed  upon  her  mind  that  "^^  (iod 
made  man  in  His  own  image,"  and  looking  up  with 
brightening  eye,  she  said — ^^  To  God's  Kingdom,  sire." 
The  King  was  moved.  A  tear  stood  in  his  eye.  He 
placed  his  hand  on  the  child's  head,  and  said,  most 
devoutly — "  God  grant  that  I  may  be  accounted  w^orthy 
of  that  Kingdom."  Thus  did  the  words  of  a  common 
child,  you  see,  move  the  heart  of  a  King.  But,  oh,  we 
are  all  the  same.  It  is  only  the  environment  that  is- 
different.  And  the  distinction  there  even  is  not  so 
great  as  one,  not  knowing,  may  be  disposed  to  imagine. 
In  high  and  low  life  alike,  anyway,  the  children,  we 
know,  are  free  ;  and  all  alike  are  susceptible  of  eccen- 
tricity. What  a  fine  confession  of  this  the  Princess  of 
Wales  made  not  long  ago  when,  as  Duchess  of  York, 
she  was  addressing  a  Girls'  Society  in  London.  As  a 
school-girl,  she  said,  she  disliked  geography  ;  of  which, 
she  added,  she  was  very  ignorant.  Once  she  was  set 
to  draw  an  outline  map  of  the  world  from  memory. 
"^  On  showing  it  to  my  governess,"  said  the  Princess, 
"  she  said  in  quite  an  alarmed  manner — '  Why,  you 
have  left  out  China  !  Don't  you  know  where  it  is  }  ' 
'  Yes,'  I  replied,  very  stubbornly,  but  very  loyally,  '  I 
know  where  it  should  be,  but  I  am  not  going  to  put  it 
in  my  maj).  The  Queen  is  angry  with  China  now,  so 
it  has  no  right  to  have  a  place  in  the  world  at  all.'  " 
The    spirit   of  exclusiveness  manifested   by  the    little 


152  CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR. 

lady  might  readily  be  quarrelled  with  in  some  quarters  ; 
but  surely  the  act  gives  promise  of  a  Queen  who,  like 
her  to  whom  she  was  loyal,  will,  when  her  glory  cometh 
— though,  may  it  be  far  distant — prove  the  j^ride  of 
every  loyal  Briton  ! 

The  somersaultic  cleverness  by  which  a  child  will 
get  out  of  an  awkward  situation  has  been  often 
revealed,  but  seldom  with  more  humour  than  in  the 
two  succeeding  illustrations.  A  minister  returning 
from  church  towards  the  manse  on  a  Sunday,  came 
suddenly  on  a  boy  leaning  earnestly  over  the  parapet 
of  a  bridge  with  a  short  rod  and  a  long  string  having  a 
baited  hook  on  the  far  end,  by  which  he  was  trying 
his  luck  in  the  burn  beneath.  '^'^  Boy,"  he  exclaimed 
severely,  "  is  this  a  day  on  which  you  should  be 
catching  fish  .^  "  ^^  Wha's  catchin'  fish  .^  "  drawled  the 
budding  Isaac  Walton  ;  '^  I'm  juist  tryin'  to  droon  this 
worm."  The  next  boy  was  yet  cleverer — alike  in 
fishing  and  in  speech.  He  had  several  trout  dangling 
from  his  hand  by  a  string  when  he  met  the  minister 
abruptly  in  a  quick  bend  of  the  road.  There  was  no 
chance  of  escape  ;  but  his  ready  wit  saved  him.  He 
walkfed  boldly  forward,  and  taking  the  first  word  as 
the  two  were  about  to  meet,  he  dangled  the  trout-hand 
high,  looked  the  minister  square  in  the  face,  and  ex- 
claimed, "  That  sorts  them  for  snappin'  at  flees  on  the 
Sabbath  !  "  and  passed  hence,  leaving  his  anticipated 
accuser  flabbergasted. 

Ruskin  says  of  children :  "  They  are  forced  by 
nature  to  develop  their  powers  of  invention,  as  a  bird 
its  feathers  of  flight ; "  and  we  might  add,  remarks 
another  writer,  "  that  the  inventive  faculty,  like  a  bird, 
is  apt,  when  fully  grown,  to  fly  away.  Then,  w^hen 
their  own  imaginative  resources  begin  to  fail  them,  one 


CHILDRKN'S    HLMOLR.  I :.,; 

observes  children  be^iii  to  read  books  of  adventure 
witli  avidity — at  tlie  age,  say,  of  ten  or  twelve  years. 
Before  that,  no  Rover  of  the  Andes  or  P],rling  the  Bold 
can  equal  tlie  heroic  achievements  they  evolve  frf)ni 
their  inner  consciousness."  Who,  tor  instance,  could 
ho})e  to  "  put  a  })atch  ''  on  the  experience  of  those  two 
little  boys  who  spent  a  snowy  day  during  the  Christmas 
holidays  tiger-shooting  in  their  father's  dining-room  ; 
and  as  one,  making  his  cautious  way  among  the  legs  of 
the  dinner-table,  for  the  nonce  a  pathless  jungle,  was 
hailed  by  the  other  with,  "Any  tigers  there.  Bill  .^  " 
he  answered  gloriously  :  '"  Tigers  f  I'm  knee-deep  in 
them  !  " 

That  excellent  story  recalls  to  me  another,  not  unlike 
it.  Also  of  a  Christmas  time.  The  children  had  asked 
permission  to  get  up  a  play,  and  it  had  been  granted 
on  the  condition  that  they  did  it  all  themselves  without 
help  or  hint.  As  the  eldest  was  only  ten  they  accepted 
the  condition  with  alacrity,  for  young  children  hate  to 
be  interfered  with  and  hampered  by  their  elders. 
When  the  evening  came  and  the  family  and  audience 
had  collected,  the  curtain  was  drawn  back  and  revealed 
the  heroine  (aged  nine),  who  stated  with  impassioned 
sobs  that  her  husband  had  been  in  South  Africa  for  the 
past  three  years,  but  that  she  was  expecting  his  return. 
Truly  enough  the  hero  (aged  ten)  entered,  and  pro- 
ceeded, after  affectionate  but  hasty  greetings,  to  give 
his  wife  an  eloquent  account  of  his  doings,  the  battles 
he  had  fought,  the  Boers  he  had  killed,  and  the  honours 
he  had  won. 

When  he  at  last  paused  for  breath,  his  wife  rose,  and 
taking  his  hand  led  him  to  the  back,  where  a  short 
curtain  covered  a  recess. 


154  CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR. 

"  I,  too,  dear/'  she  said  proudly,  "  have  not  been 
idle." 

And  pulling  back  the  curtain  she  displayed  six 
cradles  occupied  by  six  large  baby  dolls  ! 

And  that  again  recalls  another,  quite  in  the  same 
line.  One  day  a  gentleman  walking  down  a  street 
observed  a  little  boy  seated  on  a  doorstep.  Going  up 
to  him,  he  said,  "  Well,  my  little  chap,  how  is  it  you 
are  sitting  outside  on  the  doorstep,  when  I  see  through 
the  window  all  the  other  young  folks  inside  playing 
games  and  having  a  good  time  ?  Why  aren't  you 
inside  joining  in  the  fun  ?  "  ''  1  guess,  stranger,  that 
I'm  in  this  game,''  replied  the  boy.  "  But  hoAv  can  you 
be,  when  you  are  out  on  the  doorstep,  and  the  others  are 
all  inside?"  "Oh,  I'm  in  the  show^  right  enough.  You 
see,  we're  playing  at  being  married.  I'm  the  baby,  and 
I'm  not  born  yet  !  " 

The  late  Dr.  Norman  M^Leod — the  great  Norman — 
rejoiced  in  telling  a  story  about  two  ragged  children 
whom  he  found  busy  on  the  side  of  a  country  road  one 
day,  working  with  some  stiffened  mud,  which  they  had 
carefully  scraped  together.  "  What's  this  you  are 
making  ?  "  he  asked.  One  of  the  children  replied  that 
it  M-as  a  kirk.  "  A  kirk  !  Ay,  and  where's  the  door  }  " 
"There  it's."  "And  the  pulpit.?"  "That's  it." 
"  And  the  minister  }  "  The  little  one  hesitated,  then 
replied,  very  innocently — "  We  hadna  dirt  enough  left 
to  mak'  a  minister." 

The  minister,  of  course — and  the  w^eaker  his  char- 
acter he  should  be  the  more  careful — must  always 
approach  children  with  caution  if  he  hopes  to  come 
out  of  the  interview  with  his  rejjutation  unscathed.  I 
have  heard  or  read  of  a  member  of  the  cloth — a 
supreme    egoist — who    was    visiting  at   a   house    when 


CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR.  1.5.3 

but  the  mother  and  her  little  t!;irl--a  mere  child  -  were 
at  home.  As  the  self-esteemed  great  man  was  holding 
the  mother  in  conversation^  he  noticed  with  j)ride  that 
the  child,  who  reposed  on  the  hearthrug  with  a  school- 
slate  tilted  on  her  knee,  was  making  furtive  glances  uj) 
at  his  face,  and  returning  her  attention  regularly  to  the 
slate,  on  which  she  kej)t  scrawling  with  a  pencil.  When 
at  length  she  sto})j)ed  and  looked  serious,  ''  Well,  my 
dear,"  he  exclaimed,  "  have  you  been  trying  to  draw 
my  })ortrait  ?  "  She  did  not  re})ly,  "  Come,"  he  con- 
tinued, coaxingly,  "  you  must  let  me  see  it."  ^'^  Oh," 
interposed  the  proud  mother,  "  she's  awfu'  clever  at  the 
drawin'."  This  made  the  minister  still  more  eager  to 
see  the  work,  and  he  repeated  his  request  for  an  ex- 
})osure  ;  but  the  child  clutched  the  slate  only  more 
tightly  to  her  breast  and  did  not  look  up.  ''  She's  aye 
sae  shy,  ye  ken,"  interceded  the  mother,  as  she  reached 
her  hand  to  procure  the  work  of  art  by  main  force.  It 
was  then  the  little  one  found  her  tongue,  and  she 
exclaimed — ''  Oh,  it  wasna  very  like  him,  and  I  just 
})ut  a  tail  till't,  and  ca'd  it  a  doggie."  The  denouement 
leaves  nothing  to  be  desired. 

Dean  Ramsay,  to  whom  his  country  owes  so  much 
for  the  elucidation  of  its  characteristics,  tells  humorously 
of  the  elder  of  a  kirk  having  found  a  little  boy  and  his 
sister  playing  marbles  on  Sunday,  and  put  his  reproof 
not  at  all  in  judicious  form  by  exclaiming — ''  Boy,  do 
you  know  where  children  go  who  play  marbles  on  the 
Sabbath-day  }  "  Not  in  judicious  form,  truly,  for  the 
boy  replied,  "  Ay,  they  gang  doun  to  the  field  by  the 
water  below^  the  brig."  "  No,"  roared  out  the  elder, 
^'^  they  go  to  hell,  and  are  burned."  Worse  than  ever 
— for  the   elder — for  the  little    fellow,  reallv  shocked. 


156  CHILDREN'S   HUMOUR. 

now  called  to  his  sister,  "  Come  awa',  Jeanie,  here's  a 
man  swearin'  awfu'." 

"  Among  the  lower  orders  in  Scotland  humour  is 
found,  occasionally,  very  rich  in  mere  children,'  ob- 
serves the  Dean,  "  and  I  recollect  a  remarkable 
illustration  of  this  early  native  humour  occurring  in  a 
family  in  Forfarshire,  where  I  used  in  former  days  to 
be  very  intimate.  A  wretched  woman,  who  used  to 
traverse  the  country  as  a  beggar  or  tramp,  left  a  poor 
half-starved  little  girl  by  the  road-side  near  the  house 
of  my  friends.  Always  ready  to  assist  the  unfor- 
tunate, they  took  charge  of  the  child,  and  as  she  grew 
a  little  older  they  began  to  give  her  some  education, 
and  taught  her  to  read.  She  soon  made  some  progress 
in  reading  the  Bible,  and  the  native  odd  humour  of 
which  we  speak  began  soon  to  show  itself.  On  reading 
the  passage  M'hich  began  '  Then  David  rose,'  etc.,  the 
child  stopped  and  looked  up  knowingly  to  say,  '  I  ken 
wha  that  was,'  and  being  asked  what  she  could  mean, 
she  confidently  said,  '  That's  David  Rowse  the  pleuch- 
man.'  And  again,  reading  the  passage  where  the 
words  occur,  '  He  took  Paul's  girdle,'  the  child  said, 
with  much  confidence,  '  I  ken  what  he  took  that  for ; ' 
and  on  being  asked  to  explain,  replied  at  once,  '  To 
bake  his  bannocks  on.'  " 

Among  less  than  a  dozen  examples  in  all  of  child 
humour,  the  good  Dean  has  yet  another  worth  telling, 
which  he  says,  used  to  be  narrated  by  an  old  Mr. 
Campbell  of  Jura,  w^ho  told  the  story  of  his  own  son. 
The  boy,  it  seems,  was  much  spoilt  by  indulgence.  In 
fact,  the  parents  were  scarce  able  to  refuse  him  any- 
thing he  demanded.  He  was  in  the  drawing-room  on 
one  occasion  when  dinner  was  announced,  and  on  being 
ordered  up  to  the  nursery  he  insisted  on  going  down  to 


CHILDREN'S   HUMOUR.  157 

dinner  with  the  company.  His  mother  was  for  refusal, 
but  the  child  persevered  and  kept  sa3ing,  '^'^  If  I  dinna 
gang,  I'll  tell  yon."  His  father  then,  for  peace  sake, 
let  him  go.  So  he  went,  and  sat  at  the  table  by  his 
mother.  When  he  found  every  one  getting  soup  and 
himself  omitted,  he  demanded  soup,  and  repeated,  "  If 
I  dinna  get  it,  I'll  tell  yon."  Well,  soup  was  given, 
and  various  other  things  yielded  to  his  importunities, 
to  which  he  always  added  the  usual  threat  of  "^  telling 
yon."  At  last,  when  it  came  to  wine,  his  mother  stood 
firm,  and  positively  refused,  as  ''  a  bad  thing  for  little 
boys,"  and  so  on.  He  then  became  more  vociferous 
than  ever  about  '^'  telling  yon  ;  "  and,  as  still  he  was 
refused,  he  declared,  "  Now  I'll  tell  yon,"  and  at  last 
roared  out — "  Mij  new  brecks  are  made  oot  o'  the  aukl 
curtains  !  "' 

That,  however,  is  not  the  most  delectable  of  child 
stories.  We  prefer  the  ideas  of  the  little  folks  within 
the  region  of  philoso})hy.  When,  for  example,  they 
want  to  know  "  Whaur  div'  a'  the  figures  gang  when 
they  re  rubbit  oot  t  "  and  ask  such  questions  as  "  Where 
does  the  dark  go  when  the  light  comes  t  "  "  Was  it  not 
very  wrong;  of  God  not  to  make  Cain  good  as  well  as 
Abel  }  "  or,  "  If  it  be  true  that  some  of  the  stars  are 
bigger  than  this  earth,  how  do  they  not  keep  the  rain 
off.?  ' 

"  I  say,  father,'  asked  a  little  fellow  as  he  raised  his 
eyes  off  his  home  lesson,  "  Who  invented  the  multiph- 
cation  table  }  "  ''  Oh,  I  don  t  know,"  he  was  answered  ; 
"  it  was  invented  long  ago  ;  why  }  " 

"Well,  I  was  thinking  if  the  gentleman  that  invented 
it  didn't  know  it  already,  he  must  have  had  a  tough 
job  ;  and  if  he  did  know  it,  what  was  the  good  of  him 
inventing  it  at  all  }  " 


158  CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR. 

It  was  a  cloudy  and  moonless  night  when  a  little 
fellow  was  taken  out  by  his  mother^  who  went  to  call 
for  a  friend.  "  Mamma/'  he  exclaimed,  looking  up, 
"  I  expect  God's  been  very  busy  this  evening,  for  I  see 
He  has  forgotten  to  hang  the  stars  out." 

She  was  a  very  small  Miss  who  went  to  church  alone 
one  day,  where  an  organ  had  recently  been  introduced. 
As  she  stood  gazing  about  just  within  the  door,  an 
elder  approached,  and  asked  where  she  would  prefer  to 
sit.  '^  Well,"  she  said  pertly,  "  if  there's  a  monkey,  I 
would  like  to  be  near  the  organ  ;  but  if  there's  no'  a 
monkey,  I'll  just  sit  ony  place." 

A  pretty  good  story  is  related  of  one  of  Governor 
Tilton  s  staff.  It  is  said  that  when  the  individual 
referred  to  first  presented  himself  en  militaire  to  his 
wife  and  little  daughter,  the  latter,  after  gazing  at  him 
for  a  few  minutes,  turned  to  her  mother,  and  exclaimed: 
^^  Why,  Ma,  that's  not  a  real  soldier  —  it's  Pa!" 
Equally  observant  was  another  youngster,  who  was 
sent  by  his  parent  to  take  a  letter  to  the  post-office  and 
pay  the  postage  on  it.  The  boy  returned  highly  elated, 
and  said  :  "  Father,  I  seed  a  lot  of  men  putting  letters 
in  a  little  place ;  and  when  no  one  was  looking,  I  slipped 
yours  in  for  nothing.  '  We  hardly  know  whether  the 
father  would  laugh  or  storm  over  this  unconscious 
attempt  to  defraud  the  revenue.     But  no  matter. 

Two  little  London  girls  who  had  been  sent  by  the 
kindness  of  the  vicar  s  wife  to  have  "  a  happy  day  in 
the  country,"  narrating  their  experiences  on  their  re- 
turn, said,  "  Oh,  yes,  mum,  we  did  ave  a  happy  day. 
We  saw  two  pigs  killed  and  a  gentleman  buried." 

It  is  the  rare  that  fascinates.  Many  years  ago,  I  was 
living  in  a  house  where,  on  an  evening,  a  little  Miss 
was    toiling    over    her    school-lesson,    and    declaiming 


CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR.  159 

loudly,  "The — sow — has — pigs."  Being  a  city  child,  1 
wondered  whether  she  knew  of  what  she  was  reading, 
and  asked,  "  Did  you  ever  see  a  sow  and  pigs,  Mary }  " 
"  No,"  she  replied  smartly,  "  but  when  I  was  going  to 
the  school  the  day,  I  saw  a  policeman  getting  his  photo- 
graph taken." 

But  speaking  here  of  London  children,  reminds  me 
of  two  London  stories  which  should  not  be  omitted. 
So  here  :— 

Two  small  boys  walking  down  Tottenham  Court 
Road,  passed  a  tobacconist's  shop.  The  bigger  re- 
marked— "  1  say,  Bill,  Lve  got  a  ha-penny,  and  if 
you've  got  one  too,  we'll  have  a  penny  smoke  be- 
tween us." 

Bill  produced  his  copper,  and  Tommy,  diving  into 
the  shop,  promptly  re-appeared  with  a  penny  cigar  in 
his  mouth. 

The  boys  walked  side  by  side  for  a  few  minutes, 
when  the  smaller  mildly  said,  ''  I  say,  Tom,  when  am  I 
to  have  a  puff.-     The  weed's  half  mine." 

"  Oh,  3'ou  shut  up,"  was  the  business-like  reply. 
"  I'm  the  chairman  of  this  company,  and  you  are  only 
a  shareholder.      You  can  spit." 

That  is  the  first.  The  second,  though  less  pre- 
cocious, is  yet  more  enjoyable.  Besides,  we  know  it  is 
true,  while  the  other — well,  it  is  not  above  suspicion. 

One  day,  when  seeking  a  model.  Miss  Dorothy 
Tennant  (now  Mrs.  H.  M.  Stanley)  discovered  a  likely 
subject  in  the  sha})e  of  a  crossing-sweeper  ;  and,  while 
conducting  him  to  Richmond  Terrace,  she  met  her 
family's  old  friend,  Mr.  Gladstone.  Greatly  moved  by 
her  companion,  he  exclaimed  : 

"  Who's  your  friend  }  " 


U)0  CHILDREN'S  HUMOUR. 

Then  and  there  the  crossing-sweeper,  much  to  his 
dismay,  was  presented  to  the  ''  People's  WiUiam.'' 

On  entering  the  Tennant  mansion,  the  urchin  was 
tremendously  impressed  by  the  liveried  servant  who 
had  opened  the  door,  and,  after  looking  back  at  him 
several  times,  whispered  mysteriously  to  his  kind 
hostess  : 

"  I  say,  miss,  why  does  your  big  brother  wear  brass 
buttons  ?  " 

Always  thoughtful,  Miss  Tennant  first  led  her  charge 
to  the  servants'  hall,  where  she  sat  beside  him  as  he 
played  havoc  with  the  well-filled  dishes  placed  before 
him.  At  the  conclusion  of  his  repast.  Miss  Tennant 
asked  the  boy  how  he  liked  it. 

"  Proper,"  replied  the  crossing-sweeper  ;  "  yer  mother 
do  cook  prime  !  " 

London  having  yielded  its  quota,  the  "  Second  City  " 
may  be  again  drawn  u})on. 

A  little  boy  of  tender  years  was  sitting  on  the  door- 
step of  a  house  in  Bridgeton,  there,  the  other  morning, 
crying  bitterly,  when  a  girl  of  about  the  same  age 
accosted  him,  and  the  following  conversation  w^as  over- 
heard : — "  What  are  ye  greetin'  for,  laddie  } "  she 
inquired,  in  sympathetic  tones.  "  Did  onybody  hit 
ye  }  "  "  N-n-na,"  sobbed  the  boy.  "  Then,  what  is't 
ye're  greetin'  for  }  "  the  little  damsel  went  on.  "  'Cause 
my  wee  brither's  gane  to  heaven,"  exclaimed  the  little 
fellow,  bitterly,  between  his  sobs.  "  Oh  !  "  ejaculated 
the  girl ;  and  then,  after  a  pause,  "  but  ye  shouldna 
greet  like  that — ma3'be  he  hasna." 

Another.  Recently  a  little  fellow  came  home  from 
s'jhool  crying  bitterly,  and  altogether  manifesting  great 
sorrow.  "What's  the  matter,  Geordie,"  sympatheti- 
cally inquired  his  mother,  "  has  onybody  been  hittin' 


CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR.  161 

ye  ?  "  "  N-n-11-0,"  answered  the  boy  between  his  .s()l)s. 
"Then,  what  are  you  crying-  about?"  she  went  on. 
"  Boo  !  hoo  !  wee  Sammy  Sloan's  faither  an'  niithcr 
hae  fitted  to  Coatbrig  !  "  "  Tuts,  laddie,  dinna  greet 
about  that,"  she  exclaimed,  re-assuringly,  "  there's 
plenty  mair  laddies  bidin'  in  the  street  besides  Sammy 
Sloan  that  ye  can  play  wi'.  '  "  I  ken  that, '  said 
Geordie,  with  another  sob,  "  but  he  w^as  the  only  yin  I 
could  lick." 

Children,  really,  as  we  have  been  revealing  so  fre- 
quently here,  have  the  fresh  and  original  notions  of 
things,  and  are  always  frank  enough  to  give  them 
voice. 

A  little  boy  was  reading  the  stor}'  of  a  missionary 
having  been  eaten  by  cannibals.  "  Papa,"  he  asked, 
"  will  the  missionary  go  to  heaven  }  "  "  Yes,  my  son," 
replied  the  father.  "  And  will  the  cannibals  go  there, 
too  }  "  queried  the  youthful  student.  ''  No,"  was  the 
reply.  After  thinking  the  matter  over  for  some  time, 
the  little  fellow  exclaimed — ^' Well,  I  don't  see  how 
the  missionary  can  go  to  heaven  if  the  cannibals  don  t, 
when  he's  inside  the  cannibals." 

One  Sunday  evening,  while  sitting  on  his  mother's 
knee  listening  to  the  story  of  Jonah  being  swallowed 
by  the  whale,  a  little  fellow  looked  up  seriously  into 
her  face  and  asked,  "  Ma,  did  Jonah  wear  his  slippers 
in  the  whale's  belly  }  Because,  if  he  didna,  the  tackets 
in  his  boots  wad  tear  a'  its  puddin's." 

Dr.  John  Ker  of  Edinburgh,  in  his  recently  published 
volume  of  reminiscences — Memories  Grave  and  Gaij — 
tells  of  how  '^  in  a  Banffshire  manse  one  Sunday  even- 
ing, all  the  family  were  sitting  quietly  reading  in  the 
drawing-room,  when  the  youngest  boy,  with  a  laudable 
thirst  for  knowledge,  went  up  to  his  mother  and  asked 


162  CHILDREN'S    HUMOUR. 

a  question,  for  the  answer  to  Avhich  she  referred  him  to 
me.     Coming  up  to  me^,  he  said — 

"  '  Mr.  Ker^  is  it  true  that  the  devil  goes  about  like  a 
roaring  lion  }  ' 

" '  It  must/  I  replied^  '  be  true^  for  it  is  in  the 
Bible.' 

"  This  was  followed  by  another  question  which  I  did 
not  attempt  to  answer— 

" '  Then,  wha  keeps  his  fire  in  when  he's  gaun 
aboot  ?  '  " 

"  Do  you  know,  mamma,  I  don  t  believe  Solomon 
was  so  rich  after  all  ?  "  observed  a  sharp  boy  to  his 
mother,  who  prided  herself  on  her  orthodoxy.  "  My 
child  !  "  she  exclaimed  in  pious  horror,  "^  what  does  the 
Bible  say.'"'  "  That  s  just  it,'  he  answered.  "^^  It  says 
that  '^Solomon  slept  with  his  fathers.'  Now,  surely,  if 
he  had  been  rich  he'd  have  had  a  bed  to  himself." 

A  father  once  said  to  a  little  boy,  not  so  obedient  as 
might  be  desired,  "  Everything  I  say  to  you  goes  in  at 
one  ear  and  out  at  the  other."  "Is  that  what  little 
boys  has  two  ears  for,  daddy?  "  asked  the  child,  quite 
innocently. 

Engaging  his  tender  "hopeful"  in  the  wonders  of 
astronomy — "  Men  have  learned  the  distances  of  the 
stars,"  observed  the  father;  "and,  with  their  spectro- 
scopes, found  out  what  they  are  made  of"  "Yes," 
responded  the  boy  admiringly  ;  "  and  isn't  it  strange, 
pa,  how  they  found  out  their  names  too  !  " 


SCHOOLROOM   FACTS  AND 
FANCIES. 


These  are  so  numerous  as  to  demand  a  separate 
chapter. 

Talkin^i^  of  the  serpent  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  a 
lady  teacher  asked  her  class  what  a  serpent  was  like, 
when  a  boy  aptly  replied,  "  It's  like  a  lang  rope  furlin." 

On  another  occasion,  in  the  some  class,  the  question 
was,  "  What  does  the  devil  tempt  little  boys  and  oirls 
to  do  ?  "  when  the  comical  answer  came,  "  To  chap  at 
fouk's  doors,  mem.'' 

It  has  been  often  told,  but  is  worth  repeating,  how  a 
pupil  teacher  was  doing  his  level  best  to  make  the 
children  remember  Samson's  mighty  deeds  with  the 
jawbone  of  an  ass,  and,  recapitulating,  he  asked, 
"  What  did  Samson  slay  ten  thousand  Philistines  with  } 
Eh  ? "  Xo  reply  came.  Then,  pointing  to  his  jaw- 
bone, he  asked,  "  What  is  this  }  "  And  at  once  the 
answer  belched  })roudly  from  half-a-dozen  throats  in 
unison,  "  The  jawbone  of  an  ass." 

In  a  country  school  the  lesson  was  on  "  The  Prodigal 
Son,"  and  the  question,  "  What  were  the  husks  that  the 
swine  did  eat  .^  "  met  with  the  prompt  answer,  "  Tawtie 
peelin's." 


164     SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

In  a  city  seminary  a  teacher  asked  her  class,  "  Who 
knows  everything  we  say  and  do  ?  "  when  she  received 
the  unexpected  reply,  ''  The  foiik  that  bides  next  door 
to  us." 

Expecting  to  get  the  answer  "  Carnivorous "  (as  it 
bore  on  the  lesson),  a  teacher  asked  his  class  for  an 
example  of  a  bird  of  prey,  and  among  other  answers  he 
got  was  "A  yellow  yite."  The  boy  who  responded  so, 
on  being  asked  to  explain,  continued,  "  Because  it  eats 
worms." 

"What  do  you  call  the  bird  or  beast  that  feeds  on 
both  animal  and  vegetable  foods  ? "  was  the  next 
question.  The  teacher  anticipated  "  Omnivorous  "  this 
time,  but  it  did  not  come.  There  was  silence  for  a 
little.  Then  a  boy,  who  evidently  had  been  ruminat- 
ing, responded  nonchalantly,  "  A  gutsy  brute,  sir."' 

In  examining  the  boys  in  the  composition  of 
sentences,  a  master  began  :  "  If  I  ask  you,"  said  he, 
"^  what  have  I  in  my  hand  }  you  must  not  say  simply 
'  Chalk,'  but  make  a  full  sentence  of  it,  and  say,  '  You 
have  chalk  in  your  hand.'  Now  I  will  proceed.  What 
have  I  on  my  feet }  "  The  answer  came  immediately, 
"Boots."  "Wrong;  you  haven't  been  observing  my 
directions,"  he  rebukingly  replied.  "  Stockings," 
another  heedlessly  ventured  to  answ  er.  "  Wrong 
again — worse  than  ever,"  wrathfully  exclaimed  the 
magister.  "  Well .?  ''  he  continued  interrogatively  to  a 
lad  near  him.  "  Please,  sir,"  then  he  paused — perhaps 
he  thought  it  might  sound  funny,  but  he  felt  it  must  be 
right,  and  so  he  recklessly  gasped  out — "  Corns  !  " 

But  the  answers  are  not  always  so  stupid. 

"  Why  is  it,"  asked  a  teacher,  "  the  sun  never  sets  on 
the  British  possessions  ?  "  "  Because,"  slowly  responded 
an  ingenuous  youngster,  "  the  British  possessions  are  in 


SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FAXCIKS.      I(ir> 

the  north,  south,  and  east,  and   the   sun   always  sets   in 
the  west." 

Durine:  a  reeent  Seliool  Hoard  examination  in  the 
west  of  Seotland,  the  examiner  asked  a  httle  <i;irl  to 
explain  what  was  meant  by  the  expression.  He  iras 
ampli/  rorardi'd.  '"•  Paid  for't,"  was  her  instant  reply. 
"  No,  no  ;  you  are  wrong.  Su])pose  you  have  to  go 
into  a  baker  s  shoj)  and  buy  a  half-quarter  loaf,  and  lay 
down  fourpence,  would  you  say  you  had  amply 
rewarded  the  baker }  "  Unhesitatingly  she  replied 
"  Yes."  '"  Why  }  '  "  Because  the  loafs  only  twopence- 
three-farthings,'  was  the  unlooked-for  answer. 

Quite  like  that  is  the  story  of  a  small  boy  into  whose 
head  a  teacher  was  one  day  labouring  almost  in  vain  to 
get,  as  he  thought,  even  the  faintest  correct  notion  of 
the  first  rule  in  arithmetic.  "^  Look  here  now, 
Johnnie,"  he  said  at  length,  "  if  I  were  to  give  you  two 
rabbits  and  your  father  were  to  give  you  three  rabbits, 
how^  many  rabbits  would  you  then  have  }  "  "  Six." 
"  No,  no  ; "  and  the  teacher  set  out  bits  of  chalk 
to  show  how^  he  could  only  have  five.  ''  Ah,  but,' 
drawled  out  Johnnie,  "  I  have  a  rabbit  at  hame 
already." 

It  was  a  notion  of  multiplication  that  another  teacher 
was  endeavouring  to  get  properly  lodged  within  the 
skull  of  another  boy,  and  by  way  of  putting  the  effort 
to  a  practical  test,  he  said  :  "  Now,  Peter,  suppose  1  was 
a  tailor  who  supplied  your  father  with  a  suit  of 
clothes  for  three  pounds,  which  he  promised  to  })ay  me 
in  weekly  instalments  of  one  shilling,  how  much  would 
your  father  be  due  me  at  the  end  of  a  year .'  " 
"  Three  pounds,"  replied  Peter  slowly.  *■'  Nonsense, 
Peter  ;  think  again."  Peter  thought  again,  but  again 
answered  as  before.     "  You   don't    know    that  sim})le 


166     SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

sum  !  "  exclaimed  the  teacher  in  amazement.  ''  Ay,  I 
ken  it  weel  enough/'  responded  Peter,  "  but  ye  dinna 
ken  my  faither." 

'•  Did  any  of  you  ever  see  an  elephant's  skin  ?  "  asked 
the  master  of  an  infant  school.  "  I  have/'  shouted  a 
six-year-old  at  the  foot  of  the  class.  '^'  Where  ?  "  "  On 
the  elephant." 

A  little  boy  of  my  acquaintance,  while  yet  a  pupil  in 
the  infant  department,  was  one  day  given  a  slate  more 
to  engage  his  attention  than  aught  else.  But  he  had 
some  notion  of  drawing,  and  wiien  the  teacher  came 
round  she  was  astonished  to  find  he  had  set  down  a 
fair  picture  of  a  bird  on  a  bough.  "•  Ha  I  who  drew 
this  }  "  she  asked.  "  Mysel',"  was  •  the  canny  Scotch 
reply.  '^'' And  who's  mysel' .^  "  she  queried.  "^^  Oh,  Fm 
fine,"  was  the  second  response,  not  less  Scotch  than  the 
first.  The  English  reader,  of  course,  won  t  fairly 
understand  the  w^ord  ''  fine  "  as  spoken  there  ;  but  every 
Scotsman  will,  as  also  how  "  who's  "  may  be  mistaken 
for  ''■'  hows.  ' 

There  is  another  "  fine  "  story.  It  was  asked  of  a 
class,  ''  How  did  the  Israelites  get  across  the  Red 
Sea  ?  "  "  Fine,"  exclaimed  a  youth  with  brightening 
eyes  ;  '^  'twas  the  'Gyptians  was  droond." 

"  What  do  you  mean  by  a  temperate  region  ?  "  asked 
an  inspector  of  a  class,  putting  due  emphasis  on  the 
word  temperate.  "  The  region,  sir, '  responded  a  boy 
'^  where  they  drinks  only  temperants  drinks." 

Not  long  ago  a  class  of  boys  were  being  examined  on 
the  different  kinds  of  wood  ;  and  one  little  chap  was 
asked  to  name  the  specimen  (a  j)iece  of  mahogany) 
which  was  held  in  the  examiner's  hand.  He  hesitated, 
and  the  inspector,  by  way  of  suggestion,  remarked, 
"  Why,    don't    you     know     the     materials     that    your 


SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES.      iGl 

mother's  drawers  are  made  of?''  Tliis  seemed  to 
sim})lify  the  matter,  and,  amidst  a  roar  of  lau<2,liter, 
came  the  quick  reply — "  Flannelette  !  " 

"  Name  anything  friable,"  said  a  teacher.  '•  Ham,'' 
was  the  ready  answer. 

"  What  is  a  papal  bull  ?  " 

'^^  A  golden  calf" 

"  What  is  ice  f  " 

'^'^  Water  fast  asleep." 

"  What  is  a  skeleton  ?  " 

"  A  man  without  any  meat  on  it." 

A  teacher  was  examining  a  class  on  the  battle  of 
Bannockburn,  and  asked,  ''  Who  killed  de  Bohun  ?  " 
No  one  knew.  He  raised  his  arm  in  an  attitude  of 
striking,  and  yelled,  with  flashing  eyes,  "  Who  killed 
de  Bohun,  I  say  ? "  A  little  fellow  near  him,  who 
expected  the  blow,  raised  his  arm  in  a  defensive 
attitude,  and  whined,  "•  Oh,  please,  sir,  it  wasna  me." 

"■  What  is  meant  by  faith  .^ "  was  one  day  asked  of  a 
class.  ''  Faith,"  responded  a  thoughtful  youth,  '''  is  the 
faculty  which  enables  us  to  believe  things  that  we 
know  to  be  not  true." 

In  the  lesson  of  a  class  of  country  boys  not  long  ago, 
the  words  "  above  the  average  "  occurred,  and  the  lady 
teacher  asked  if  any  one  could  tell  what  the  w^ord 
''  average  "  meant.  There  was  no  response  for  a  time, 
and  she  passed  the  question  from  one  to  another  until 
a  more  than  average  specimen  eagerly  responded,  ''  It's 
a  thing  that  hens  lay  on."  The  teacher  was  dumb- 
founded, and  asked  for  an  explanation.  "  Well," 
drawled  the  budding  Solomon,  "  my  mother  says  that 
our  hens  lay  each  four  eggs  a  week — on  an  average." 

It  is  a  teacher's  business  to  observe  that  his  scholars 
are  clean  as  well  as  clever,  and  the  Rev.  David  Macrae, 


168     SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

in  his  entertaining  little  book  of  Quaint  Saijings  of 
Children,  tells  how  a  teacher,  after  glancing  round  the 
class  one  day,  said  to  a  boy,  "I'll  let  you  off  if  you  can 
find  a  hand  in  all  the  school  as  dirty  as  that  one," 
indicating  the  boy's  own  grimy  exposed  paw.  The 
youth  promptly  brought  forth  and  showed  his  other 
fist,  which  was  certainly  dirtier  still,  and  the  master,  in 
view  of  his  pledge,  had  no  resource  but  to  let  the 
offender  go  for  that  time  any  way. 

An  old  story,  which  has  had  a  lively  currency, 
tells  of  how  a  boy  when  he  returned  from  school 
was  always  asked  where  he  stood  in  his  class,  and 
whose  invariable  answer  was,  "I'm  second  dux."  For 
the  regular  holding  of  this  excellent  position  he  re- 
ceived many  fine  things  in  the  shape  of  sweets  and 
biscuits,  and  pennies,  etc.,  until  at  length  it  occurred  to 
one  of  the  family  to  ask  him  how  many  were  in  his 
class.  It  was  then  the  gilt  fell  off"  the  ginger-bread. 
"  Oh,"  said  he,  "there's  just  me  and  anither  lassie." 

Dean  Ramsay  tells  of  a  very  practical  answer  given 
by  a  little  girl  who  had  been  asked  the  meaning  of 
"  darkness,"  as  it  occurred  in  Scripture  reading — "Just 
steek  your  een."  In  the  same  place,  he  says,  on  the 
question,  "  What  is  the  pestilence  that  walketh  in  dark- 
ness ? "  being  put  to  a  class,  a  little  boy  answered,  after 
consideration,  "  Oh,  its  just  bugs." 

Our  friend.  Dr.  John  Ker,  has  often  told  of  an 
occasion  when  he  was  examining  a  class  in  mathe- 
matics, and  put  the  question  to  a  boy — "  If  a  salmon 
weighed  1 6  lbs.,  and  was  to  be  sold  at  2d.  per  lb.,  what 
would  it  be  worth  ?  " — and  how  the  lad,  who  was  the 
son  of  a  fishmonger,  hastily  replied — "  It  wadna  be 
worth  a  curse  !  "  Salmon  at  that  price,  I  should  say, 
would  nowhere  in  these  days  be  esteemed  above  sus- 


SCHOOLROOM   FACTS  AND  FANCIKS.      1()9 

})ic'ion,  anyway.  And  boys  nill  he  frank,  even  altli()ij<^h 
their  raphes  at  times  a})j)ear  more  smart  than  res])eetfiih 
Onee  a  Coekney  manufaeturer  was  takin<;-  ])art  in  a 
school  examination,  and  asked  a  boy  pom})ously  — 
"  Wat's  the  capital  of  'Olland  ?  "  "  H,"  was  tlie  mi- 
consciously  smart  re})ly  <]jiven.  And  that  recalls  a  good 
dialect  story,  under  the  early  Board  system,  which  tells 
how  an  English  clergyman  and  a  Lowland  Scotsman 
entered  one  of  the  best  schools  in  Aberdeen.  The 
master  received  them  kindly,  and  enquired — 

"  Would  you  prefer  that  I  should  spier  (question) 
the  boys,  or  that  you  should  spier  them  ?  " 

The  PLnglish  clergyman  desired  the  master  to  proceed. 
He  did  so  with  great  success,  and  the  boys  answered 
satisfactorily  numerous  interrogatories  as  to  the  exodus 
of  the  Israelites  from  JLgypt.  The  clergyman  then  said 
he  would  be  glad  to  ''  spier  the  boys,"  and  at  once 
began — 

"  How  did  Pharaoh  die  t  " 

There  was  a  dead  silence. 

In  his  dilemma  the  Lowland  gentleman  interposed. 

"  I  think,  sir,  the  boys  are  not  accustomed  to  your 
English  accent ;  let  me  try  what  I  can  make  of  them." 
And  he  inquired  in  broad  Scotch — 

"  Hoo  did  Phawroah  dee  f  " 

Again  there  was  a  dead  silence,  upon  which  the 
master  said — - 

"  Noo,  boys,  fat  cam'  to  Phawroah  at  his  hinner 
end  ?  " 

The  boys  with  one  voice  answered — 

'^  He  was  drooned." 

And  a  smart  little  fellow  added — 

"  Ony  lassie  could  hae  tell't  ye  that." 

Not  unlike   the   above   is   a  story  told   by  Dr.   Ker. 


170     SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

The  venerable  inspector  was  one  day  putting  a  class 
^^through  its  facings/'  and  asked  a  boy  where  the  River 
Dee  was.  The  answer  came  correctly^  "  In  Aberdeen- 
shire." 

"  Assuming  quite  a  serious  look  (says  Dr.  Ker)^  I 
asked  him  if  he  was  not  mistaken^  adding  that  I 
thought  the  Dee  was  in  Kirkcudbright,  and  flowed  into 
the  Solway  Firth.  He  was  a  bashful  boy,  and  made  no 
reply.  To  give  the  class  a  needed  fillip,  I  appealed  to 
them  to  settle  w^hether  I  or  the  boy  w^as  right.  To 
give  a  verdict  against  the  inspector  was,  of  course,  not 
to  be  thought  of,  and  there  was  silence  for  a  time  ;  but 
at  last  a  boy  put  his  hand  to  his  mouth,  and  said  to  his 
neighbour  in  a  stage  whisper  not  meant  for^  but  which 
reached  my  ear — '  He  disna  ken  there's  twa  Dees.'  " 

Once  by  way  of  stimulant,  the  doctor  asked  a  some- 
what sleepy  history  class  which  of  the  four  Georges 
wore  the  largest  hat  t  and  a  boy  who  had  not  till  then 
o})ened  his  mouth,  replied — "  Him  that  had  the  biggest 
heid." 

In  an  Ayrshire  town,  immediately  after  the  Whit- 
sunda}'  term  a  year  or  two  ago,  a  female  teacher  asked 
her  class  of  little  ones  to  be  sure  all  of  them  and  bring 
their  new  addresses  to  her  on  the  morrow,  as  these 
were  required  for  the  re-adjustment  of  the  register. 
"  Please,  mem,"  blurted  out  a  wee  fellow  in  })etticoats, 
"  my  mither  says  I'm  no'  to  get  ony  mair  dresses. 
She's  gaun  to  mak'  a  suit  for  me  oot  o'  my  faith er's  auld 
breeks." 

Sunday  school  stories  are  not  inferior  to  those  of  the 
week-day  seminary  in  their  irresistible  fun  and  drollery. 

A  Sunday  school  teacher  asked  her  scholars  to  learn 
an  appropriate  text  to  say  as  they  gave  in  their  pennies 
to  the  next  collection.     The  first  was — '^^  He  that  giveth 


SCHOOLROOM   FACTS  AND  FANCIIvS.      I  71 

to  the  poor  lendeth  to  the  Lord  '  ;  and  all  went  ri<;ht 
until  it  came  to  tlie  last  boy,  who,  reluctantly  dropping- 
his  ))enny  into  the  box,  said — to  the  oreat  amazement 
of  teachers  and  scholars — ''  The  fool  and  his  money  are 
soon  parted  !  " 

As  an  exam})le  of  the  error  of  talkin<;-  figuratively  to 
those  who  do  not  a})preciate,  and  who  are  a])t  to  take 
everythino;  literally,  a  story  is  worth  telling.  The  re- 
s})ected  superintendent  of  a  Sunday  school  had  told  his 
boys  that  they  should  endeavour  to  bring  their  neigh- 
bours to  the  school,  saying  that  they  should  be  like  a 
train — the  scholar  being  the  engine,  and  his  converts 
the  carriages.  Judge  of  his  surprise  when,  next  Sun- 
day, the  door  opened  during  lessons,  and  a  little  boy, 
making  a  noise  like  an  engine^  ran  in,  followed  by  half- 
a-dozen  others  in  single  file  at  his  back  !  He  came  to  a 
halt  before  the  superintendent,  who  asked  the  meaning 
of  it  all.  The  naive  answer  was — "  Please,  sir,  Tm  the 
engine,  and  them's  the  carriages." 

A  Sabbath  school  teacher,  at  the  finish  of  a  lesson  on 
"  The  Fall/'  asked — "  Now,  children,  what  lesson  can 
we  learn  from  the  story  of  Adam  and  F^ve  }  Well, 
Johnnie  }  "  Johnnie — "  Never  believe  what  your  wife 
sa^^s.*' 

A  lady  asked  one  of  the  children  in  her  class,  "  What 
was  the  sin  of  the  Pharisees  .^  "  "  Eating  camels, 
ma'am,'  was  the  re})ly.  The  little  girl  who  answered 
had  read  that  the  Pharisees  "  strained  at  gnats  and 
swallowed  camels.''  "  In  what  condition  was  the  patri- 
arch Job  at  the  end  of  his  life  }  "  questioned  a  teacher 
of  a  stolid-looking  boy.    "  Dead,"  was  the  quiet  response. 

"  What  is  the  outward  and  visible  sign  in  baptism  r  " 
asked  a  lady.     There  was  silence  for  some  seconds,  and 


172      SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

then  a  girl  broke  in  triumphantly  with,  "  The  baby, 
please,  mem." 

The  Rev.  David  Macrae  tells  that  in  a  Brooklyn  Sun- 
day school  a  small  boy  was  asked  the  question,  "  Who 
was  the  first  man  }  "  and,  with  characteristic  American 
cocksureness,  he  immediately  replied,  "  General  Wash- 
ington." The  teacher  smiled,  then  asked — '^^  Did  you 
never  hear  of  Adam?"  '^^  Why,  yes,"  responded  the 
child,  "  I've  heard  of  Adam  ;  but  I  didn't  know  you 
were  counting  foreigners." 

Recently,  in  a  Sunday  school  in  Scotland,  a  little 
boy,  who  had  been  transferred  to  a  new  class,  was 
asked  on  arrival  if  he  had  had  the  Shorter  Catechism. 
YoY  a  moment  he  looked  })uzzled,  and  then  replied — 
"^  I'm  no  sure,  mem,  until  I  ask  my  mither  ;  but  I  ken 
I've  had  the  measles." 

Elsewhere,  a  teacher  had  been  carefully  explaining 
the  parable  of  the  Prodigal  Son,  and  that  done,  she 
])roceeded  to  put  questions.  All  went  w^ell  until  near 
the  close,  when  she  asked,  •'  Now,  tell  me  who  was  not 
pleased  to  see  the  prodigal  son  when  he  came  home," 
and  to  her  consternation  got  the  reply,  '^'^  Please,  ma'am, 
the  fatted  calf." 

In  a  Sunday  school  in  Ayrshire,  attended  chiefly  by 
miners'  children,  the  lesson  for  the  day  had  been  the 
parable  of  the  ten  wise  and  ten  foolish  virgins,  and  the 
teacher  asked — "  Can  any  one  of  you  tell  me  why 
the  virgins'  lamps  went  out  .^  "  "\  ken,"  immediately 
responded  the  dullest  boy  in  the  class  ;  '^'  it  was  the 
wicks  that  was  needin'  pykin'." 

And  the  story  is  hoary  with  age  of  how  a  teacher, 
when  the  lesson  had  been  read  which  bore  on  Jacob's 
dream,  invited  questions  from  the  class,  and  how  one 
little  fellow  asked — ''Why  did  the  angels  need  a  ladder 


f 


SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FAXCIKS.      My, 

for  ascending  and  descending  when  they  had  wings  and 
could  flee  ?  "  The  teacher  was  nonphissed,  but  got  out 
of  tlie  difficulty  by  saying — "  Perhaps  some  of  the 
other  boys  can  answer."  "■  I  think  I  ken/'  ventured  a 
little  fellow,  whose  father  was  a  bird  fancier,  "^  maybe 
they  wad  be  moultin'  at  the  time." 

His  solutions  may  be  extraordinary,  but  nothing,  you 
see,  can  baffle  the  young  wit.  It  was  again  in  a  Sunday 
school  that  a  teacher  had  been  instructing  a  class  in  the 
relative  positions  of  man  and  the  lower  animals  in  the 
scale  of  intelligence,  and  wishing  to  test  how  the  lesson 
had  been  imbibed,  she  asked — "  Now,  what  is  next  to 
man  }  "  and  got  the  answer  promptly — "^  His  shirt." 

"  What  is  meant  by  a  '  hireling '  .^  "  was  asked  of  a 
class  in  a  day-school.  "^  You  are  a  hireling,"  responded 
a  little  fellow ;   "you  are  hired  to  teach  us." 

Giving  a  reading  lesson  to  his  class  in  the  presence 
of  an  inspector,  a  teacher  asked  his  boys  what  was 
meant  by  conscience — a  word  that  had  occurred  in  the 
course  of  the  reading — and  the  class  having  been  duly 
crammed  for  the  occasion  answered  as  one  boy — "^  An 
inw^ard  monitor."  "  But  w^hat  do  you  understand  by 
an  inward  monitor.^"  put  in  the  inspector.  To  this 
further  question,  only  one  boy  announced  himself  ready 
to  respond,  and  his  triumphantly  given  answer  was — 
"A  hironclad,  sir." 

Their  definitions  are  at  all  times  interesting,  if  not 
constantly  reliable.  After  a  reading  of  Gray's  "  Elegy" 
by  a  fourth  standard  class,  the  boys  were  asked  what 
was  meant  by  "fretted  vaults,"  and  one  youth  replied 
— "The  vaults  in  which  these  poor  people  were  buried  ; 
their  friends  came  and  fretted  over  them."  Asked 
what  he  understood  by  "  FLlegy,''  another  bov  in  the 


174     SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

same  class  answered — "  Flegy  is  some  poetry  wrote  out 
for  schools  to  learn,  like  Gray's  '  Elegy.' " 

Asked  to  describe  a  kitten^  a  boy,  after  a  moment's 
thought,  replied — "^A  kitten  is  remarkable  for  rushing 
like  mad  at  nothing  whatever,  and  stopping  before  it 
gets  there." 

Another  boy's  definition  of  a  lie  was  probably  the 
fruit  of  good  experience.  "A  lie,"  said  he,  '^^is  an 
abomination  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord,  but  a  very  present 
help  in  time  of  trouble." 

Asked  to  define  the  expression,  '^  Sufficient  unto  the 
day  is  the  evil  thereof."  "  It  just  means,"  responded  a 
little  fellow,  "  that  the  evil  committed  at  the  present 
day  is  quite  sufficient  without  any  more." 

In  a  sixth  standard  examination,  a  vacuum  was 
recently  described  as  "  an  empty  space  without  any- 
thing in  it  ; "  and  a  compass,  at  the  same  time,  was 
explained  as  "  a  tripod  w  ith  a  round  or  circular  box 
surmounting  it,  which  always  points  due  north." 

A  Government  inspector  not  long  ago  gave  the  fol- 
lowing in  a  list  of  historical  and  other  "  facts,"  elicited 
from  boys  under  examination  : — 

"  Of  whom  was  it  said  '  He  never  smiled  again  '  }  " 
''  William  Rufus,  and  this  after  he  was  shot  by  the 
arrow." 

"  My  favourite  character  in  English  history  is 
Henry  VIII.,  because  he  had  eight  wives  and  killed 
them  all." 

'^^The  cause  of  the  Peasants'  Revolt  was  that  a 
shilling  poultice  should  be  put  on  everybody  over 
sixteen." 

"  Henry  VIII.  was  a  very  good  king.  He  liked 
plenty  of  money,  he  had  plenty  of  wives,  and  died  of 
ulcers  in  the  lees." 


SCHOOLROOM   FACTS  AXl)  FANCllvS.      IT.", 

"  Kdward  111.  would  liave  been  kino-  of  France  if"  his 
mother  liad  been  a  man.'' 

"  Doomsday  Book. — A  book  si^nityino-  that  eaeJi 
man  should  have  seven  feet  of  land  for  a  grave." 

'^Alexander  the  Great  was  born  in  the  absence  of  his 
parents.  ' 

"  What  followed  the  murder  of  IJecket  t  "  "  Henry  II. 
received  wacks  with  a  birch.' 

"  What  is  a  waterslied  t "  "  A  shed  for  keej)ing 
water  in.  ' 

"  A  watershed  is  a  house  between  two  rivers  so  that 
a  drop  of  water  falling  on  one  side  of  the  roof  runs  into 
one  river,  and  a  drop  on  the  other  side  goes  into  the 
other  river.'' 

"  The  battle  of  Waterloo  was  fought  off  Caj)e  Trafal- 
gar. Nelson  led  up  one  squadron  and  Collingwood  the 
other.  Wlien  it  was  over,  Wellington  rode  over  the 
field  by  moonlight,  and  met  Blucher,  the  French  general, 
and  they  shook  hands  and  were  friends  ever  after." 

"  The  Feudal  System  lies  between  the  Humber  and 
the  Thames." 

''Caractacus  was  a  Roman  Emperor  who  had  con- 
quered Britain.  He  had  to  abandon  it  shortly  after- 
wards because  it  was  overrun  by  the  Picts  and  the 
Scots."' 

"  The  princi})al  i)roducts  of  Kent  are  Archbishops  at 
Canterbury." 

"  The  chief  clause  in  Magna  Charta  was  that  no  free 
man  should  be  })ut  to  death  or  imprisoned  without  his 
own  consent.'' 

"  What  and  where  are  the  Pyramids  ? "  ''  The 
Pyramids  is  a  kind  of  night-lights  as  is  generally  used 
in  the  bed-rooms,  but  you  can  get  Clark's  as  w^ell." 


176     SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

"  Where  were  the  Kings  of  England  crowned  ? " 
"On  their  heads." 

"^  What  were  the  most  important  Feudal  dues } " 
"  Friendship,  courtship,  marriage." 

"  What  do  you  know  of  Dermot : "  "  Dermot's 
daughter  married  Magna  Charta.  Dermot  himself 
married  Strongbow." 

"■  What  do  you  know  of  Dryden  and  Buckingham  }  " 
"  Dryden  and  Buckingham  were  at  first  friends,  but 
soon  became  contemporaries." 

"What  is  Milton's  chief  work.?"  "  Milton  wrote  a 
sensible  poem  called  the  '^Canterbury  Tails.'" 

"  The  ffamut  is  a  musical  scale.  The  name  is  derived 
from  gamut  or  catgut,  the  material  from  which  the 
strings  of  musical  instruments  used  to  be  made." 

"  An  optimist  is  a  man  who  looks  after  your  eyes, 
and  a  pessimist  is  a  man  who  looks  after  your  feet.' 

"  A  man  who  looks  on  the  bright  side  of  things  is 
called  an  optimist,  and  one  who  looks  on  the  dull  side 
is  called  a  pianist." 

Dr.  Charles  Wilson,  in  his  general  report  on  the 
Scottish  Training  Colleges,  gives  several  curious  answers 
which  he  had  received  from  candidates  and  pupil- 
teachers.  A  young  lady  in  commenting  on  the  proverb, 
"  Penny  wise  and  pound  foolish,"  wrote — "  This  pro- 
verb clearly  shows  that  for  every  wise  and  good  action 
a  man  does,  he  will  commit  two  hundred  and  forty 
foolish  bad  ones." 

Under  examination  by  Dr.  John  Ker,  a  boy  wrote 
regarding  Oliver  Cromwell — "  Oliver  Cromwell's  eyes 
were  of  a  dark  grey,  his  nose  was  very  large  and  of  a 
deep,  red  colour,  but  underneath  it  was  a  truly  religious 
soul." 


SCHOOLROOM    FACTS  ANT)   I  A\CIi:S.      177 

Another  wrote  '•  iU  the  Declaration  ot  Iii(liil<>eiiee 
peoj)le  were  allowed  to  worship  (Jod  in  their  own  way. 
Seven  l^ishops  refused  to  do  so.  They  were  aeeordin<i,l\' 
j)iit  on  their  trial  and  found  not  guilty." 

Another  declared  that  the  Salic  Law  says — "  No 
one  can  be  made  Kin*;'  who  was  descended  from  a 
woman." 

S})eakino;  there  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  recalls  the  story 
of  a  boy's  school  essay  which  the  late  Mr.  W.  K.  Olad- 
stone  was  fond  of  telling — albeit,  the  great  Connnoner 
had  no  very  lively  sense  of  humour.  The  "  G.O.M.'s  " 
comically-mixed  youthful  historian  wrote — '•  Oliver 
Cromwell  began  his  career  by  cutting  off  the  head  of 
his  king,  and  when  he  was  dying  he  said,  "  Had  I 
served  my  God  with  half  the  zeal  I  have  served  my 
king,  he  would  not  in  mine  age  have  left  me  naked  to 
mine  enemies." 

I  have  exam})les  of  other  boys'  essays  not  less  sur- 
prising and  entertaining. 

''  The  horse,"  wrote  a  youthful  Cuvier,  in  an  essay  on 
the  "friend  of  man,"  "is  a  useful  creacher.  It  eats 
corn,  it  is  a  sort  of  square  animal  with  a  leg  at  each 
corner,  and  has  a  head  at  one  end  and  a  tail  at  the 
other." 

Here  is  a  boy's  essay  on  "  Breath,"  well  calculated  to 
almost  take  any  one's  breath  away — "  Breath  is  made  of 
air.  We  breathe  with  our  lungs,  our  livers,  and  our 
kidneys.  If  it  w^asn't  for  our  lights  and  our  breath  we 
should  die  when  we  slept.  Our  breath  keeps  life  agoing 
through  the  nose  when  we  are  asleej).  Boys  that  stay 
in  a  room  all  day  should  not  breathe.  They  should 
wait  till  they  get  outdoors.  Boys  in  a  room  make 
carbonicide.  Carbonicide  is  more  poisonous  than  mad 
dogs.      A   heap  of  soldiers  was  in  a  black  hole  in  India 


178      SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

and  carboiiicide  got  into  that  black  hole  and  killed  nearly 
every  one  afore  morning.  Girls  kill  the  breath  with 
corsets  that  squeeze  the  diagram.  Girls  can't  run  or 
holler  like  boys  because  their  diagram  is  squeezed  too 
much.  If  I  was  a  girl,  I'd  rather  be  a  bo}'  so  I  can  run 
and  holler  and  have  a  good  big  diagram." 

The  next  looks  rather  knowing  for  a  lad  of  eleven- 
and-a-half;  but  Dr.  T.  J.  Macnamara,  M.P.,  in  an 
article  on  "  Children's  Witticisms,"  contributed  to  the 
Xcfv  Liberal  Review,  vouches  for  its  authenticity.  The 
subject  reveals  itself  in  the  w^ork  : — "  What  I  expect  to 
do  in  my  holidays  is  the  greater  part  of  the  time  to 
mind  the  baby.  Two  years  and  a  half  old.  Just  old 
enough  to  run  into  a  puddle  or  to  fall  downstairs.  Oh  ! 
what  a  glorious  occupation,  my  aunt  or  Sunday-school 
teacher  would  say.  But  it  is  all  very  well  for  them  ; 
they  ought  to  have  a  turn  \^•ith  him.  I  am  going  to 
have  a  game  at  tying  doors,  tying  bundles  of  mud  in 
paper,  and  then  drop  it  on  the  })avement.  I  shall  buy 
a  bundle  of  wood  and  tie  a  piece  of  cord  to  it,  and  when 
some  one  goes  to  jnck  it  up,  lo  !  it  has  vanished — not 
lost,  but  gone  before.  I  shall  go  butterfly-catching^ 
and  catch  some  fish  at  Snob's  Brighton  (Lea  Bridge). 
I  shall  finish  up  by  having  a  whacking,  tearing  my 
breeches,  giving  a  boy  two  black  eyes,  and  then  wake 
u})  on  Monday  morning  refreshed  and  quite  happy  to 
make  the  acquaintance  of  Mr. s  cane." 

Dr.  M.  quotes  the  following  as  well — the  genuineness 
of  which  he  also  guarantees  : — "■  Man  goes  fishing,  takes 
his  rod  and  enough  tackle  to  make  a  telegraph  wire, 
and  starts  on  his  piscatorial  expedition.  He  arrives^ 
and  happy  man  is  he  if  he  has  not  forgot  something,  a 
hook,  his  bait,  or  his  float.  He  sits  there,  apparently 
contented  ;     he    catches     a    froff    or    some    other    fine 


SCHOOLROOM    FACTS  AM)   I  ANCII.S.      IT}) 

specimen  of  natural  liistorv,  and  a  cold,  and  a  jolly 
g'ood  roastini!;  from  his  ])itter  (.sic)  half,  when  he  arri\(s 
witli  some  mackerel  wiiich  lie  had  l)oii<;ht  at  the  fisii- 
monger's.  He,  })()or  man.  did  not  know  tliat  they  were 
sea-fish,  hut  his  wife  did.  When  juveniles  go  fishin<r, 
thev  take  a  willow,  their  mas  reel  of  best  six  cord,  a 
pickle  jar,  and  a  few  worms,  and  })roceed  to  the  Xew 
River  cpiite  ha])])y.  When  they  arrive  they  catch 
about  fifty  (a  small  thousand,  they  call  it),  and  are 
thinking  of  returning  home,  when  a  gent,  with  N.R. 
0:1  his  hat,  and  a  good  ash  stick  in  his  hand,  comes  ii}), 
'  'Ullo,  there,'  says  he^  '  what  are  you  doing  there  ? ' 
'  Fishing,  sir/  answ  er  they  meekly.  The  man  then 
takes  away  their  fish  and  rod,  and  gives  them  some 
whales  instead  (on  their  back).  And  they  return  home 
sadder  but  wiser  boys." 

I  can  vouch  myself  for  the  genuineness  of  the  next 
example,  recently  copied  verbatim  from  the  original 
manuscript  in  the  possession  of  a  friend  in  the  teaching 
j)rofession  in  Glasgow\  The  general  subject  had  been 
''Athletic  Sports,"  and  a  boy  wrote  : — "Athletic  sports 
is  very  useful  football  especially  it  strengthens  the 
mussles  all  sports  is  good  for  the  helth  for  some  people 
I  think  the  best  game  is  rugby  there  is  more  fun  in  it 
than  anything  else  I  will  give  a  description  of  football 
the  Rangers  have  the  best  men  that  ever  stood  in  the 
football  ])ark  there  is  one  man  I  know  and  that  is  Chas. 
Raisback  and  he  is  center  and  a  nother  good  })layer  is 
Bobby  M'Coll  his  wright  wing  and  J.  Drummond  is  a 
nother  good  })layer  I  think  this  is  all  about  athletic 
sports  I  have  got  to  say  and  I  will  never  forget  the 
good  wee  rangers  the  result  was  on  Saturday  Rangers  'i 
Morton  1.      Good  old  Rangers."     Isn  t  it  beautiful.^ 


ISO     SCHOOLROOM  FACTS  AND  FANCIES. 

To  the  question,  "  With  what  weapon  did  Samson 
slay  the  PhiHstines  ?  "  the  correct  answer  has  abeady 
been  given,  or  extracted,  here  ;  but  I  recall  another, 
more  ingenious,  from  a  boy,  who  rephed,  "With  the 
a.re  of  the  Apostles." 

"Wliatare  you  talking  about  there  .^  "  demanded  a 
teacher,  addressing  himself  to  the  loquacious  son  of  a 
railway  porter.  But  the  teacher  received  no  response, 
and  was  obliged  to  ask  another  lad  w^io  sat  next 
the  delinquent,  "What  was  George  talking  about?" 
"Please,  sir,  he  was  saying  as  his  father's  trousers  is 
sent  down  to  Brighton  when  they  gets  old,  and  they's 
made  into  sugar  there,  and  that's  how  'tis  sugar  's  gone 
down." 

Home  influences  appeared  in  the  answer  of  a  child, 
whose  father  was  a  strong  teetotaller,  to  the  query, 
"Do  you  know  the  meaning  of  syntax  ?  "  "Yes,  syntax 
is  the  dooty  upon  spirits." 

In  reply  to  the  question,  "  Why  do  we  cook  our 
food  ? "  one  child  replied  :  "  There  are  five  ways  of 
cooking  potatoes.  We  should  die  if  we  eat  our  food 
raw."  A  second  pupil  wrote  :  "Food  digested  is  when 
we  put  it  into  our  mouths,  our  teeth  chew^s  it,  and  our 
mouth  drops  it  down  into  our  body.  W^e  should  not 
eat  so  much  bone-making  food  as  flesh-making  and 
warmth-giving  foods,  for,  if  we  did,  we  should  have  too 
many  bones,  and  that  would  make  us  look  funny." 

In  answer  to  the  question,  "  Mention  any  occupations 
that  are  injurious  to  health.^"  one  child's  reply  was: 
"  Occupations  which  are  injurious  to  health  are  carbonic 
acid  gas,  which  is  impure  blood."  Another  responded: 
"A  stone-mason's  work  is  injurious,  because  when  he  is 
chipping,  he  breathes  in  all  the  little  chips,  and  they 
are    taken    into    the    lungs."      A    third    advanced    the 


SCHOOLROOM   FACTS  AM)   FANCIKS.      I  si 

tlu'on-  that  "A  hoot-niakcr's  trade  is  \  rry  injurious, 
because  they  press  tlie  l)()()ts  against  tlie  thorax,  and 
therefore  it  })res.ses  the  thorax  in,  and  it  touches  the 
lieart,  and  if  they  do  not  die^  they  are  cripples  for 
Hfe." 

Finally,  here  is  an  extract  from  an  essay  on  "The 
Moon,"  which — in  defiance  of  its  title — affords  some 
very  interesting-  olim})ses  of  sublunary  home  life  : — "To 
look  at  the  white  moon  shinin  threw  your  winder  at 
nii»ht,  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  and  lissin  to  your 
father  and  mothers  knives  and  forks  rattlin  on  their 
])lates  while  they  are  getting  their  nice  supj^ers,  is  the 
))rittist  site  you  ever  seed.  When  its  liver  and  hunyens 
there  a  having,  you  can  smell  it  all  the  way  upstairs. 
It  looks  very  brite  and  nearly  all  white.  Once  when 
they  was  a  having  fried  fish  and  potaters  I  crept  out  of 
my  bed-room  to  the  top  of  the  stairs  all  in  the  dark, 
just  so  as  to  have  a  better  hssen  and  a  nearer  smell.  I 
forget  whether  there  was  a  moon  that  night.  I  dont 
think  as  there  was,  cose  I  got  to  the  top  of  the  stares 
afore  I  knew  I  was  there,  and  I  tumbled  right  down  to 
the  bottom  of  the  stares,  a  bursting  open  the  door  at 
the  bottom,  and  rolling  into  the  room  nearly  as  far  as 
the  supper  table.  My  father  thote  of  giving  me  the 
stick  for  it,  but  he  let  my  mother  give  me  a  bit  of  fish 
on  some  bread,  and  told  me  to  skittle  off  to  bed  again. 
I  am  sure  there  was  not  no  moon,  else  I  should  have 
seed  there  wasn't  a  top  stare  when  I  put  my  foot  out 
so  slow.  I  only  skratted  my  left  eye  and  ear  a  bit  with 
that  last  bump  at  the  bottom,  witch  was  a  hard  one. 
Stares  are  steeper  than  girls  think,  speshilly  where  the 
corner  is." 


CHILDREN'S  STORIES, 


'fff^y//^/^fff' 


The  editor  of  a  London  literary  journal  was  recently 
inviting  men  and  women  in.  prominent  j^ositions  in 
public  life  to  name  for  publication  the  books  of  their 
childhood.  So  far  as  I  observed,  none  of  the  half- 
hundred  or  more  who  responded  gave  Blue  Beard, 
Cinderella,  Little  Red  Riding  Hood,  or  any  of  the  others 
in  the  same  category  that  follow  here.  But  I  am  none 
the  less  convinced  that  these  old-time  favourites,  not 
yet  unknown,  though  familiar  to  city  children  in  the 
present  generation  mainly  in  tlieir  variegated  and  fan- 
tastic Christmas  })antomime  form,  were  in  Scotland  and 
England  alike  in  the  last  century  more  essentially  the 
books  of  childhood  than  any  others  known  and  read 
beyond  the  w^alls  of  the  school-room.  The  travelling- 
stationers  and  packmen  carried  them  in  their  thousands, 
in  chapbook  form,  into  even  the  most  remote  parts  of 
the  country,  where  they  were  bartered  for  and  explored 
with  a\ddity.  In  many  quarters,  indeed,  they  were  so 
familiar  fifty  years  ago  that  the  books  on  occasions 
could  be  dispensed  with,  and  the  elder  members  of 
families  would  recite  the  stories  from  memory  for  the 
delectation  of  the  younger  fry,  when  all  foregathered  in 
a  crescent  before  the  kitchen  fire  to  wear  out  the  long 
winter  evenings.  In  this  manner,  under  the  dim- 
flickering  light   of  an    "  oilie   cruizie,"  in  a  straggling 


CHILDHKN'S    STORIKS.  is;; 

villaov  ill  PtTtlishiiH',  (lid  I  Icani  first  of  liliic  Heard  and 
Jack  tlie  Giant  Kilk-r,  and  nianv  anotlicr  hero  of  cliap- 
hook  literature.  And  my  experience,  1  am  sure,  was  by 
no  means  sinc^ular.  Ratlier,  I  feel  certain  that  while 
telling-  thus  my  own,  1  am  expressing-  no  less  trui\-  the 
experience  of  many  thousands  of  men  and  women  now 
beyond  middle  life  who  similarly  were  born  and  bred  in 
any  rural  j^arish  in  Scotland.  And,  oh,  the  weird 
fascination  of  it  all  !  There  was  no  doubtino-  of  IJlue 
Beard's  reality  ;  no  hesitation  in  acce})tino-  as  actual 
every  extraordinary  feat  of  Jack  the  Giant  Killer. 
Both  were  as  real  in  our  innocent  ima<yination  as  is  now 
the  personality  of  King  Edward  the  Seventh.  It  never 
occurred  to  us  then^  as  it  does  now^,  that  the  story  of 
Blue  Beard  is  only  a  gory  and  fantastic  parodv  of  the 
history  of  Eden — a  temj)tation,  a  fall,  and  a  rescue. 
And  we  had  no  concern  about  authorship.  We  did  not 
know  then,  as  we  do  now^ — and  as  few  are  yet  aware, 
perha})s — that  Blue  Beard,  CindereUa,  and  Little  Bed 
Biding  Hood  were  all  written  by  Charles  Perrault,  a 
celebrated  French  literateur  and  poet,  who  was  born  in 
Paris  in  l6'28,  and  died  there  in  1703.  And  to  have 
been  told,  as  we  have  recently  been,  on  authority  that 
Perrault's  Blue  Beard — the  Comte  Gilles  de  Rais — was 
no  mere  wife-killer  (though  he  was  such)  but  from  his 
youth  upwards,  in  the  fifteenth  centurv,  a  man  of 
exquisite  culture,  and  a  soldier  under  Joan  of  Arc, 
would  have  made  for  disillusionment  so  emj^hatic  as  to 
have  shred  the  tale  of  a  serious  amount  of  its  blood- 
curdling charm.  As  I  can  still  enjoy  reading  them, 
it  is  a  real  pleasure  to  embrace  here  these  old-time 
examples  of  child  literature.  Such  as  follow — and  all 
the  more  popular  will  be  found  in  the  list — are  printed 
verbatim  from  the  chapbooks  now  unobtainable,  except 


184  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

at  a  ransom  price — and  without  individual  comment — 
none  being  required. 

BLUE  BEARD. 

There  was,  some  time  ago^  a  gentleman  who  was  ex- 
tremely rich  :  he  had  elegant  town  and  country  houses  ; 
his  dishes  and  plates  were  of  gold  or  silver  ;  his  rooms 
were  hung  with  damask  ;  his  chairs  and  sofas  were 
covered  with  the  richest  silks  ;  and  his  carriages  were 
all  magnificently  gilt  with  gold. 

But,  unfortunately^  this  gentleman  had  a  blue  beard^ 
which  made  him  so  very  frightful  and  ugly,  that  none 
of  the  ladies  in  the  neighbourhood  would  venture  to  go 
into  his  company. 

It  happened  that  a  lady  of  quality,  who  lived  very 
near  him,  had  two  daughters,  who  were  both  extremely 
beautiful.  Blue  Beard  asked  her  to  bestow  one  of  them 
upon  him  in  marriage,  leaving  to  herself  the  choice 
which  of  the  two  it  should  be. 

They  both,  however,  again  and  again  refused  to 
marry  Blue  Beard  ;  but  to  be  as  civil  as  possible,  they 
each  pretended  that  they  refused  because  she  would  not 
deprive  her  sister  of  the  opportunity  of  marrying  so 
much  to  her  advantage.  But  the  truth  was,  they  could 
not  bear  the  thought  of  having  a  husband  with  a  blue 
beard  :  and,  besides,  they  had  heard  of  his  having 
already  been  married  to  several  wives,  and  nobody 
could  tell  what  had  afterwards  become  of  them. 

As  Blue  Beard  wished  very  much  to  gain  their 
favour,  he  invited  the  lady  and  her  daughters,  and 
some  ladies  who  were  on  a  visit  at  their  housC;,  to 
accompany  him  to  one  of  his  country  seats,  where  they 
spent  a  whole  week,  during  which  nothing  was  thought 


CHILDREN'S   STORIKS.  IS", 

of  but  parties  for  hiintiii«>-  and  fishing,  music,  danc*in«>-, 
collations^  and  the  most  delightful  entertainments.  Xo 
one  thought  of  going  to  bed,  and  the  nights  were 
passed  in  merriment  of  every  kind. 

In  short,  the  time  had  passed  so  agreeably,  that  the 
youngest  of  the  two  sisters  began  to  think  that  the 
beard  which  had  so  much  terrified  her  was  not  so  very 
blue,  and  that  the  gentleman  to  whom  it  belonged  was 
vastly  civil  and  pleasing. 

Soon  after  they  returned  home,  she  told  her  mother 
that  she  had  no  longer  any  objection  to  accept  Blue 
Beard  as  her  husband  ;  and,  accordingly,  in  a  short  time 
they  were  married. 

About  a  month  after  the  marriage  had  taken  place, 
Blue  Beard  told  his  wife  that  he  should  be  obliged  to 
leave  her  for  a  few  weeks,  as  he  had  some  business  to 
do  in  the  country.  He  desired  her  to  be  sure  to  procure 
herself  every  kind  of  amusement,  to  invite  as  many  of 
her  friends  as  she  liked,  and  to  treat  them  with  all  sorts 
of  delicacies,  that  the  time  might  pass  agreeably  during 
his  absence.  '^Here,"  said  he,  "are  the  keys  of  the  two 
large  wardrobes.  This  is  the  key  of  the  great  box  that 
contains  the  best  plate,  which  we  use  for  company  ; 
this  belongs  to  my  strong  box,  where  I  keep  my  money  ; 
and  this  to  the  casket  in  which  are  all  my  jewels.  Here 
also  is  a  master  key  to  all  the  apartments  in  my  house 
— but  this  small  key  belongs  to  the  closet  at  the  end  of 
the  long  gallery  on  the  ground  floor.  I  give  you  leave," 
continued  he,  "  to  open  or  do  what  you  like  with  all 
the  rest  excepting  this  closet  :  this,  my  dear,  you  must 
not  enter,  nor  even  put  the  kep  into  the  lock,  for  all  the 
world.  Should  you  disobey  me,  expect  the  most  dread- 
ful of  punishments." 

She  promised  to  obey  his  orders  in  the  most  faithful 


186  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

manner  ;  and  Blue  Beard,  after  tenderly  embracing  her, 
stepped  into  his  carriage  and  drove  away. 

The  friends  of  the  bride  did  not,  on  this  occasion, 
wait  to  be  invited,  so  impatient  were  they  to  see  all  the 
riches  and  magnificence  she  had  gained  by  marriage, 
for  they  had  been  prevented  from  paying  their  wedding 
visit  by  their  aversion  to  the  blue  beard  of  the  bride- 
groom. 

No  sooner  were  they  arrived  than  they  impatiently 
ran  from  room  to  room,  from  cabinet  to  cabinet,  and 
then  from  wardrobe  to  wardrobe,  examining  each  with 
the  utmost  curiosity,  and  declaring  that  the  last  was 
still  richer  and  more  beautiful  than  what  they  had  seen 
the  moment  before.  At  length  they  came  to  the 
drawing-rooms,  where  their  admiration  and  astonish- 
ment were  still  increased  by  the  costly  splendour  of 
the  hangings,  of  the  sofas,  the  chairs,  carpets,  tables, 
girandoles,  and  looking-glasses,  the  frames  of  which 
were  silver  gilt,  most  richly  ornamented,  and  in  which 
they  saw  themselves  from  head  to  foot. 

In  short,  nothing  could  exceed  the  magnificence  of 
what  they  saw  ;  and  the  visitors  did  not  cease  to  extol 
and  envy  the  good  fortune  of  their  friend,  who  all  this 
time  was  far  from  being  amused  by  the  fine  compli- 
ments they  paid  her,  so  eagerly  did  she  desire  to  see 
what  was  in  the  closet  her  husband  had  forbidden  her 
to  open.  So  great  indeed  was  her  curiosity,  that, 
without  recollecting  how  uncivil  it  would  be  to  leave 
her  guests,  she  descended  a  })rivate  staircase  that  led  to 
it,  and  in  such  a  hurry,  that  she  was  two  or  three  times 
in  danger  of  breaking  her  neck. 

When  she  reached  the  door  of  the  closet,  she  stopped 
for  a  few  moments  to  think  of  the  charge  her  husband 
had  given  her,  and  that  he  would  not  fail  to  keep  his 


CHILDRHX'S    STORIKS.  187 

word  ill  punishing"  lu-r  \  cry  stnercly,  sliould  slu-  disohtv 
him.  But  she  was  so  wvy  curious  to  know  what  was 
in  the  inside,  that  she  determined  to  venture  in  spit*- 
of  everything. 

She,  according-ly,  with  a  tremhlini;-  liand,  put  the  key 
into  the  lock,  and  the  door  immediately  opened.  The 
window  shutters  being-  closed,  she  at  first  saw  nothing  ; 
but  in  a  short  time  she  perceived  that  the  floor  was 
covered  with  clotted  blood,  on  which  the  bodies  of 
several  dead  women  were  lying.  These  were  all  the 
wives  whom  Blue  Beard  had  married  and  murdered, 
one  after  another.  She  was  ready  to  sink  with  fear, 
and  the  key  of  the  closet  door,  which  she  held  in  her 
hand,  fell  on  the  floor.  When  she  had  somewhat  re- 
covered from  her  fright,  she  took  it  up,  locked  the 
door,  and  hastened  to  her  own  room,  that  she  might 
have  a  little  time  to  get  into  humour  for  amusing  her 
visitors  ;  but  this  she  found  impossible,  so  greatly  was 
she  terrified  by  what  she  had  seen. 

As  she  observed  that  the  key  of  the  closet  had  got 
stained  with  blood  in  falling  on  the  floor,  she  wiped  it 
two  or  three  times  over  to  clean  it ;  still,  however,  the 
blood  remained  the  same  as  before  ;  she  next  washed 
it,  but  the  blood  did  not  stir  at  all ;  she  then  scoured  it 
with  brickdust,  and  afterwards  with  sand,  but  notwith- 
standing all  she  could  do  the  blood  was  still  there,  for 
the  key  w^as  a  fairy,  who  was  Blue  Beard's  friend^  so 
that  as  fast  as  she  got  it  off  on  one  side,  it  appeared 
again  on  the  other. 

Early  in  the  evening  Blue  Beard  returned  home,  say- 
ing he  had  not  })roceeded  far  on  his  journey  before  he 
was  met  by  a  messenger  who  was  coming  to  tell  him 
that  his  business  was  ha})pily  concluded  without  his 
being  present,  u})on  which  his  wife  said  everything  she 


188  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

could  think  of,  to  make  him  beheve  she  was  transported 
with  joy  at  his  unexpected  return. 

The  next  morning  he  asked  for  the  keys  :  she  gave 
them  to  him  ;  but  as  she  could  not  help  showing  her 
fright,  Blue  Beard  easily  guessed  what  had  happened. 
'■•  How  is  it/'  said  he,  ''  that  the  key  of  the  closet  upon 
the  ground  floor  is  not  here  }  " 

•'  Is  it  not  }  Then  I  must  have  left  it  on  my  dressing- 
table,"  said  she,  and  left  the  room  in  tears. 

"  Be  sure  you  give  it  to  me  by  and  by,"  cried  Blue 
Beard. 

After  going  several  times  backwards  and  forwards^ 
])retending  to  look  for  the  key,  she  was  at  last  obliged 
to  give  it  to  Blue  Beard.  He  looked  at  it  attentively, 
and  then  said,  "  How  came  the  blood  upon  the  key  ?  " 

''  I  am  sure  I  do  not  know,"  replied  the  lady,  turning 
at  the  same  time  as  pale  as  death. 

"  You  do  not  know,"  said  Blue  Beard  sternly  ;  "  but 
I  know  well  enough.  You  have  been  in  the  closet  on 
the  ground  floor.  \>ry  well,  madam  ;  since  you  are 
so  mightily  fond  of  this  closet,  you  shall  certainly  take 
your  place  among  the  ladies  you  saw  there." 

His  wife,  almost  dead  with  fear,  fell  upon  her  knees^ 
asked  his  ]:)ardon  a  thousand  times  for  her  disobedience, 
and  entreated  him  to  forgive  her,  looking;  all  the  time 
so  very  sorrowful  and  loveh',  that  she  would  have 
melted  any  heart  that  was  not  harder  than  a  rock. 

But  Blue  Beard  answered,  ^'  Xo^  no,  madam  ;  you 
shall  die  this  very  minute  !  " 

"  Alas  !  "  said  the  poor  trembling  creature,  '■'  if  I 
must  die,  allow  me,  at  least,  a  little  time  to  say  my 
prayers." 

''  I  give  you,"  replied  the  cruel  Blue  Beard,  '•  half  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  ;  not  one  moment  longer." 


CHILDRKX'S    STOKIKS.  189 

When  Blue  Beard  had  left  her  to  herself,  she  called 
her  sister  ;  and  after  tellin**-  her,  as  well  as  she  eoiild 
for  sobbing-,  that  she  had  but  half  a  cjuarter  of  an  hour 
to  live  :  "  Pr'ythee,"  said  she,  "  sister  Ann  "  (this  was 
her  sister's  name),  "run  up  to  the  top  of  the  tower,  and 
see  if  my  brothers  are  yet  in  sight,  for  they  j)romised 
to  come  and  visit  me  to-day  ;  and  if  you  see  them 
make  a  sign  for  them  to  gallo])  as  fast  as  })ossible." 

Her  sister  instantly  did  as  she  was  desired,  and  the 
terrified  lady  every  minute  called  out  to  lier,  "  Ann  I 
sister  Ann  I   do  you  see  any  one  coming  ?  " 

And  her  sister  answered,  "  I  see  nothing  but  the  sun, 
which  makes  a  dust,  and  the  grass  which   looks  green." 

In  the  meantime.  Blue  Beard,  with  a  great  scimitar 
in  his  hand,  bawled  as  loud  as  he  could  to  his  wife, 
''Come  down  instantly,  or  I  will  fetch  you." 

''  One  moment  longer,  I  beseech  you,"  re})lied  she  ; 
and  again  called  softly  to  her  sister,  "  Sister  Ann,  do 
you  see  any  one  coming  ?  " 

To  which  she  answered,  "  I  see  nothing  but  the  sun, 
which  makes  a  dust,  and  the  grass  which  looks  green." 

Blue  Beard  now  again  bawled  out,  "  Come  down,  I 
say,  this  very  moment,  or  I  shall  come  and  fetch  you." 

"  I  am  coming  ;  indeed,  I  will  come  in  one  minute," 
sobbed  his  unhappy  wife.  Then  she  once  more  cried 
out,  "  Ann  !  sister  Ann  !  do  you  see  any  one  coming  }  " 

"  I  see,"  said  her  sister,  "  a  cloud  of  dust  a  little  to 
the  left." 

"  Do  you  think  it  is  my  brothers  }  "  continued  the 
wife. 

"■  Alas  I  no,  dear  sister,"  replied  she  ;  ''it  is  only  a 
flock  of  sheep." 

"Will  you  come  down  or  not,  madam  .^  "  cried  Blue 
Beard,  in  the  greatest  rage  imaginable. 


190  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

"  Only  one  single  moment  more/'  answered  she. 
And  then  she  called  out  for  the  last  time,  "  Sister 
Ann  !  do  you  see  any  one  coming  ?  " 

"  I  see,"  replied  her  sister,  "  two  men  on  horseback 
coming  to  the  house  ;  but  they  are  still  at  a  great 
distance." 

'•  God  be  })raised  !  "  cried  she,  "  it  is  my  brothers  ; 
give  them  a  sign  to  make  what  haste  they  can." 

x\t  the  same  moment  Blue  Beard  cried  out  so  loud 
for  her  to  come  down,  that  his  voice  shook  the  whole 
house. 

The  poor  lady  with  her  hair  loose,  and  her  eyes 
swimming  in  tears,  instantly  came  down,  and  fell  on 
her  knees  to  Blue  Beard,  and  was  going  to  beg  him  to 
spare  her  life,  but  he  interrupted  her,  saying,  '^'^  All  this 
is  of  no  use  at  all,  for  you  shall  die  ;  "  then  seizing  her 
with  one  hand  by  the  hair,  and  raising  the  scimitar  he 
held  in  the  other,  was  going  with  one  blow  to  strike  off 
her  head. 

The  unfortunate  creature  turning  towards  him,  de- 
sired to  have  a  single  moment  allowed  her  to  recollect 
herself. 

"  No,  no,"  said  Blue  Beard,  "  I  will  give  you  no  more 
time,    I    am    determined — you     have     had    too    much 

already  ;  "    and   again    raised   his   arm Just   at   this 

instant  a  loud  knocking  was  heard  at  the  gates,  which 
made  Blue  Beard  wait  for  a  moment  to  see  who  it  was. 
The  gates  were  opened,  and  two  officers  dressed  in 
their  regimentals  entered,  and,  with  their  swords  in 
their  hands,  ran  instantly  to  Blue  Beard,  who,  seeing 
they  were  his  wife's  brothers,  endeavoured  to  escape 
from  their  presence  ;  but  they  pursued  and  seized  him 
before  he  had  gone  twenty  steps,  and  plunging  their 


CHILDHKX'S  Sr()l{IKS.  I()l 

swortls  into  his  hodw  he  iinnu'(liat(l\  fell  down  dead  at 
their  feet. 

Tlie  ])oor  wife,  who  was  almost  as  dead  as  her 
husband,  was  unable  at  first  to  rise  and  embrace  her 
brothers.  She  soon,  however,  recovered  ;  and  as  Jilue 
Beard  had  no  heirs,  she  found  herself  tlie  lawful  pos- 
sessor of  his  great  riches. 

She  em})loyed  a  portion  of  her  vast  fortune  in  <)ivin<r 
a  marriage  dowry  to  her  sister  Ann,  who  soon  after 
became  the  Mife  of  a  young  gentleman  by  whom  she 
had  long  been  beloved.  Another  part  she  em})loyed  in 
buying  captains'  commissions  for  her  two  brothers  ; 
and  the  rest  she  presented  to  a  most  worthy  gentleman, 
whom  she  married  soon  after,  and  whose  kind  treat- 
ment soon  made  her  forget  Blue  Beard's  cruelty. 


JACK    AND    THK    BEAN-STALK. 

In  days  of  yore,  there  lived  a  widow  who  had  a  son 
named  Jack.  Being  an  only  child,  he  was  too  much 
indulged,  and  became  so  extravagant  and  careless  that 
he  wasted  the  jiroperty  which  his  mother  possessed, 
until  at  last  there  remained  only  a  cow,  the  chief 
support  of  her  and  her  son. 

One  day  the  })oor  woman,  with  tears  in  her  eyes,  said 
to  Jack — "  O,  }'ou  wicked  child,  by  your  ungrateful 
course  of  life  you  have  brought  me  to  beggary  in  my 
old  age  ;  cruel  boy  !  I  have  not  money  to  buy  even  a 
bit  of  bread,  and  we  must  now  sell  the  cow.  I  am 
grieved  to  part  with  her,  but  I  cannot  see  you  starve." 

Jack  felt  some  remorse,  but  having  less  affection  for 
the  cow  than  his  mother  had,  he  drove  her  to  the 
nearest    market  town,  wiiere   he  met  a  butcher,  who 


192  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

made  a  very  curious  offer  for  her.  "  Your  com,"  said 
he,  "  you  youn"'  j^rodigal  dog  !  is  worth  nothing  ;  you 
liave  starved  her  until  she  would  disgrace  the  shambles  ; 
and,  as  to  milk,  no  wonder  that  you  and  your  mother 
have  been  starving  while  you  were  depending  upon 
that  supply.  One  ill  turn  deserves  another,  and 
receives  it  just  as  surely  as  one  good  turn  deserves 
another.  But  you  shall  not  take  back  the  cow  to 
perish  with  hunger.  I  have  got  some  beans  in  my 
pocket  ;  they  are  the  oddest  I  ever  saw,  not  one  of 
them  being,  either  in  colour  or  shape,  like  another ;  if 
you  will  take  them  in  exchange  for  the  cow,  you  may 
have  them." 

The  silly  boy  could  not  conceal  the  pleasure  he  felt 
at  the  offer.  The  bargain  was  struck,  and  the  cow 
exchanged  for  a  few  })altry  beans.  Jack  made  the  best 
of  his  way  home,  calling  to  his  mother  before  he 
reached  the  house,  thinking  to  surprise  her.  When  she 
saw  the  beans  and  heard  Jack's  story,  her  patience 
quite  forsook  her  ;  she  kicked  the  beans  away  in  a 
passion  ;  they  flew  in  all  directions — some  were 
scattered  in  the  garden.  Not  having  anything  to  eat, 
they  both  went  supperless  to  bed. 

Jack  awoke  early  in  the  morning,  and,  seeing  some- 
thing uncommon  in  the  garden^  soon  discovered  that 
some  of  the  beans  had  taken  root  and  sprung  uj)  sur- 
j^risingly  ;  the  stalks  were  of  great  thickness,  and  had 
so  entwined  that  they  formed  a  ladder,  nearly  like  a 
chain  in  appearance. 

Looking  upwards,  he  could  not  discern  the  top  ;  it 
appeared  to  be  lost  in  the  clouds.  He  tried  the  bean- 
stalks, found  them  firm  and  not  to  be  shaken.  He 
(juickly  formed  the  resolution  of  climbing  to  the  top  to 
seek  his  fortune,  and  ran  to  communicate  his  intention 


CHILDRKN'S    STOHIKS.  if);; 

to  his  inothcr.  not  donhtiin^-  but  she  would  he  ((niallx- 
pleased  with  himself.  She  deelared  he  should  not  <;<»  ; 
said  it  would  break  her  lieart  if  he  did — entreated  and 
threatened,  but  all  in  vain. 

Jaek  set  out,  and.  after  (•linibin*^  for  some  hours, 
reaehed  the  toj)  of  the  bean-stalk  quite  fatigued. 
Looking  around,  he  found  himself  in  a  strange  eountry. 
It  appeared  to  be  a  desert,  quite  barren — not  a  tree, 
shrub,  house,  or  living  creature  to  be  seen. 

Jack  seated  himself  uj)on  a  stone,  and  thought  of  his 
mother;  he  reflected  with  sorrow  on  his  disobedience  in 
climbing  the  bean-stalk  against  her  will,  and  concluded 
that  he  must  die  of  hunger. 

However,  he  walked  on,  hoping  to  see  a  house  where 
he  might  beg  something  to  eat  and  drink.  Presently  a 
Jiandsome  young  woman  a])peared  at  a  distance.  As 
she  ap])roached.  Jack  could  not  help  admiring  how 
beautiful  she  looked  ;  she  was  dressed  in  the  most 
elegant  manner,  and  liad  a  white  wand  in  her  hand,  on 
the  top  of  which  was  a  ])eacock  of  })ure  gold.  While 
Jack  was  looking  with  the  greatest  surjirise  at  this 
charming  female,  with  a  smile  of  the  most  bewitching- 
sweetness,  she  inquired  how  he  came  there  ?  Jack  told 
how  he  had  climbed  up  the  bean-stalk.  She  asked  him 
if  he  recollected  his  father  }  He  answered  that  he  did 
not  ;  and  added  that  he  had  inquired  of  his  mother 
who  or  where  his  father  was,  but  that  she  avoided 
answering  him,  and  even  seemed  afraid  of  speaking,  as 
if  there  was  some  secret  connected  with  his  father's 
history. 

The  lady  replied,  "  I  will  reveal  the  whole  story  ; 
your  mother  must  not.  But,  before  I  begin,  I  require 
a  solemn  promise,  on  your  i)art,  to  do  what  I  com- 
mand.     I  am  a  fairy,  and  if  you  do  not  ))erform  exactly 


nn  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

what  I  desire,  you  will  be  destroyed."  Jack  promised 
to  obey  her  injunctions^  and  the  fairy  thus  addressed 
him  : — 

"  Your  father  was  a  rich  and  benevolent  man  ;  he 
was  good  to  the  poor^  and  constantly  relieving  them  ; 
he  never  let  a  day  pass  without  doing  good  to  some 
person.  On  one  particular  day  in  the  wxek  he  kept 
open  house,  and  invited  those  who  were  reduced  and 
had  lived  well.  He  always  sat  at  the  table  with  them 
himself,  and  did  all  he  could  to  render  his  guests  com- 
fortable. The  servants  were  all  happy,  and  greatly 
attached  to  their  master  and  mistress.  Such  a  man  was 
soon  known  and  talked  of.  A  giant  lived  a  great  many 
miles  off,  who  was  altogether  as  wicked  as  your  father 
was  good  ;  he  was  envious,  covetous,  and  cruel,  but  had 
the  art  of  concealing  these  vices. 

"  Hearing  your  father  spoken  of,  he  formed  the 
design  of  becoming  acquainted  with  him,  hoping  to 
ingratiate  himself  into  your  father's  favour.  He 
removed  quickly  into  your  neighbourhood,  caused  it  to 
be  reported  that  he  had  lost  all  he  possessed  by  an 
earthquake,  and  found  it  difficult  to  escape  with  his 
life  ;  his  wife  was  with  him.  Your  father  believed  his 
story,  and  pitied  him  ;  he  gave  him  apartments  in  his 
owm  house,  and  caused  him  and  his  wife  to  be  treated 
hospitably,  little  imagining  that  the  giant  was  meditat- 
ing a  horrid  return  for  all  his  favours. 

"Things  went  on  in  this  way  for  some  time,  the 
giant  becoming  daily  more  impatient  to  put  his  plan 
into  execution.  At  last,  an  opportunity  presented 
itself  Your  father's  house  was  at  some  distance  from 
the  sea-shore,  but  the  giant,  standing  on  a  hill  one 
stormy  day,  observed  some  ships  in  distress  off  the 
rocks ;  he  hastened  to  your  father,  and  requested  that 


CHILDREN'S    STOHIKS.  l^r, 

he  would  st'iul  ;ill  the  people  he  could  s])are  to  relieve 
the  niariiiers. 

''  While  the  servants  were  all  ein])l(>yed  upon  this 
service,  tlie  <>iaiit  despatched  your  father  bv  stahbiii"- 
him  with  a  daooer.  ^'ou  were  then  only  three  months 
old,  and  your  mother,  upon  discovering  what  had 
happened,  fainted,  but  still  clasping  you  in  her  arms. 
The  giant,  who  intended  to  murder  both  of  you,  having 
found  her  in  that  state,  for  a  short  time  repented  of 
the  dreadful  crime  he  had  committed^  and  granted  your 
mother  and  ypu  your  lives,  but  only  upon  condition 
that  she  should  never  inform  3'ou  who  your  father  w^as, 
nor  answer  any  questions  concerning  him,  assuring  her 
that,  if  she  did,  he  would  certainly  put  both  of  you  to 
death  in  the  most  cruel  manner.  Your  mother  took 
you  in  her  arms,  and  fled  as  quickly  as  j)OSsible. 
Having  gained  your  father's  confidence,  he  knew  where 
to  find  all  his  treasure.  He  and  his  wife  soon  carried 
o:T  two  large  chests  filled  with  gold,  w  hich  they  could 
not  have  done  unless  they  had  been  giants,  and,  having 
set  the  house  on  fire  in  several  places,  when  the  servants 
returned  it  was  burned  quite  down  to  the  ground. 

"  Your  })oor  mother  wandered  with  you  a  great  many 
miles  from  this  scene  of  desolation  ;  fear  added  to  her 
haste ;  she  settled  in  the  cottage  where  you  were 
brought  u]),  and  it  was  entirely  owing  to  her  fear  of  the 
giant  that  she  never  mentioned  your  father  to  you. 

"  I  became  your  father's  guardian  at  his  birth  ;  but 
fairies  have  laws  to  which  they  are  subject  as  well  as 
mortals.  A  short  time  before  the  giant  went  to  your 
father's,  I  transgressed  ;  my  punishment  was  a  sus})en- 
sion  of  power  for  a  limited  time — an  unfortunate  cir- 
cumstance, as  it  totally  prevented  my  succouring  your 
father. 


!()()  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

''The  day  on  which  you  met  the  butcher,  as  you 
went  to  sell  your  mother's  cow,  my  power  was  restored; 
and,  as  I  had  l)een  told  by  Oberon,  the  King  of  the 
Fairies,  how  dreadful  were  the  consequences  to  your 
father  of  my  single  error,  I  resolved  to  take  you  under 
my  protection,  and  to  be  more  circumspect  in  future. 
It  was  I  who  secretly  jirompted  you  to  take  the  beans 
in  exchange  for  the  cow. 

"By  my  power  the  bean-stalk  grew  to  so  great  a 
height,  and  formed  a  ladder.  I  need  not  add  that  I 
inspired  you  with  a  strong  desire  to  ascend  the  ladder. 

"  The  giant  now  lives  in  this  country  ;  you  are  the 
person  ai)j)ointed  to  punish  him  for  all  his  wickedness. 
You  will  have  dangers  and  difficulties  to  encounter,  but 
3^ou  must  persevere  in  avenging  the  death  of  your 
father  or  you  will  not  prosper  in  any  of  your  undertak- 
ings, but  be  always  miserable. 

"As  to  the  giant's  possessions,  you  may  seize  on  all 
you  can,  for  everything  he  has  belongs  either  to  you  or 
to  me  ;  for  you  must  know  that,  not  satisfied  with  the 
gold  he  carried  off  from  your  father,  he  broke  into  my 
house  and  stole  the  two  greatest  curiosities  ever 
possessed  even  by  a  fairy,  and  would  have  killed  me  as 
he  did  your  father,  if  it  could  have  been  possible  to  kill 
a  fairy.  One  thing  I  desire — do  not  let  your  mother 
know^  you  are  acquainted  with  your  father's  history  till 
you  see  me  again. 

"  Go  along  the  direct  road  ;  you  will  soon  see  the 
house  where  your  cruel  enemy  lives.  While  you  do  as 
I  order  you,  I  will  protect  and  guard  you  ;  but,  remem- 
ber, if  you  disobey  my  commands  a  most  dreadful 
punishment  awaits  you." 

When  the  fairy  had  concluded,  she  disajipeared, 
leaving  Jack  to  pursue  his  journey.      He  walked  on  till 


CHILDRKX'S    STOHIKS.  if)? 

at'tt-r  sunset,  wlu-ii,  to  his  i>rcat  joy,  lu-  i-spicd  a  l;ir;j,«' 
mansion.  A  |)lain-lo()kin*>;  woman  was  at  the  door  ;  Ix- 
accosted  lier,  bcggin*),-  slic  would  <>ivc  him  a  morsel  ol" 
bread  and  a  niiiht's  lodi>in<;'.  She  exj)ressed  the 
greatest  surprise  at  seein<>-  him.  and  said  it  was  (juite 
uncommon  to  see  a  human  heini;-  near  the  house,  tor  it 
was  well  known  that  her  husband  was  a  lar<>e  and 
])owerful  <i;iant,  and  that  he  would  never  eat  anythini;- 
but  human  Hesh,  if  he  })ossibly  could  <>et  it ;  that  he 
did  not  think  anythino-  of  walkino-  Hfty  miles  to  pro- 
cure it. 

This  account  greatly  terrified  Jack,  but  he  still 
ho})ed  to  elude  the  giant,  and  therefore  he  again 
entreated  the  woman  to  take  him  in  for  one  night  only, 
and  hide  him  where  she  thought  })roj)er.  The  woman 
at  last  suffered  herself  to  be  })ersuaded,  for  although 
she  had  assisted  in  the  murder  of  Jack's  father  and  in 
stealing  the  gold,  she  was  of  a  compassionate  and 
generous  disposition,  and  took  him  into  the  house. 

First  they  entered  a  fine  large  hall^  magnificently 
furnished  ;  they  then  passed  through  several  spacious 
rooms^  all  in  the  same  style  of  grandeur. 

A  long  gallery  was  next ;  it  was  very  dark,  just  light 
enouffh  to  show  that,  instead  of  a  wall  on  one  side, 

o 

there  was  a  grating  of  iron  which  parted  off  a  dismal 
dungeon,  whence  issued  the  groans  of  those  ])oor 
victims  whom  the  cruel  giant  reserved  in  confinement 
for  his  own  voracious  appetite. 

Poor  Jack  was  half  dead  with  fear,  and  would  have 
given  the  world  to  have  been  w  ith  his  mother  again,  for 
he  now^  began  to  fear  that  he  should  never  see  her 
more,  and  gave  himself  u])  for  lost ;  he  even  mistrusted 
the  giant's  wife^  and  thought  she  had  let   him   into  the 


198  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

house  for  no  other  purpose  than  to  lock  him  u})  among 
the  unfortunate  people  in  the  dungeon. 

At  the  farther  end  of  the  gallery  there  was  a  spacious 
kitchen,  and  a  fire  was  burning  in  the  grate.  The  good 
woman  bade  Jack  sit  down^  and  gave  him  plenty  to  eat 
and  drink.  Jack,  not  seeing  anything  here  to  make 
him  uncomfortable^  soon  forgot  his  fear,  and  was 
beginning  to  enjoy  himself,  when  he  was  aroused  by  a 
loud  knocking  at  the  door,  which  made  the  whole  house 
shake  ;  the  giant's  wife  ran  to  secure  him  in  the  oven, 
and  then  went  to  let  her  husband  in. 

Jack  heard  him  accost  her  in  a  voice  like  thunder, 
saying — 

"Wife,  I  smell  fresh  meat." 

"  Oh  !  my  dear,"  replied  she,  ''  it  is  only  the  people 
in  the  dungeon." 

The  giant  appeared  to  believe  her  and  walked  into 
the  kitchen,  where  poor  Jack  lay  concealed,  shaking 
with  fear  and  trembling  in  every  limb. 

At  last,  the  monster  seated  himself  by  the  fireside, 
whilst  his  wife  prepared  sup})er.  By  degrees  Jack  took 
courage  to  look  at  the  giant  through  a  small  crevice  ;  he 
was  quite  astonished  to  see  what  an  amazing  quantity 
he  devoured,  and  thought  he  never  would  have  done 
eating  and  drinking.  When  supper  was  ended,  the 
giant  desired  his  wife  to  bring  him  his  hen,  wOiich  was 
one  of  the  curiosities  he  had  stolen  from  the  fairy.  A 
very  beautiful  hen  was  brought,  and  placed  on  the 
table  before  him.  Jack's  curiosity  was  very  great  to 
see  what  would  happen  ;  he  observed  that  every  time 
the  giant  said,  ''  Lay  !  "  the  hen  laid  an  e^^  of  solid 
gold. 

The  giant  amused  himself  a  long  time  with  his  hen ; 
meanwhile  his  wife  went  to  bed.     At  length  the  giant 


CHILDREN'S    STORIKS.  i()() 

fell  aslee})  by  the  fireside,  and  snored  like  tlie  roariii;^- 
of  a  cannon.  At  daybreak.  Jack,  findino-  the  oiant  still 
asleep,  crept  softly  out  of  his  hidin»-plaee,  seized  the 
hen^  and  ran  oti'  with  lur. 

He  easily  found  the  way  to  the  bean-stalk,  and 
descended  it  more  quickly  than  he  ex])ected.  His 
mother  was  overjoyed  to  see  him,  for  she  concluded  he 
had  come  to  a  shocking  end. 

Jack  was  impatient  to  show  his  hen,  and  inform  his 
mother  how  valuable  it  was. 

'*  And  now,  mother/'  said  Jack,  ''  I  have  brought 
home  that  which  w  ill  quickly  make  us  rich  ;  and  I  ho})e 
to  make  you  some  amends  for  the  affliction  I  have 
c:iused  you  through  my  idleness  and  extravagance." 

The  hen  produced  as  many  golden  eggs  as  they 
desired,  and  so  they  became  possessed  of  immense 
riches. 

For  some  months.  Jack  and  his  mother  lived  very 
happily  together  :  but  he,  recollecting  the  fairy's  com- 
mands, and  fearing  that  if  he  delayed  to  avenge  his 
father's  death,  she  would  put  her  threats  into  execu- 
tion, longed  to  climb  the  bean-stalk  again  and  pay  the 
giant  another  visit.  Jack  w^as,  however,  afraid  to  men- 
tion it  to  his  mother,  being  wxll  assured  that  she  would 
endeavour  to  prevent  his  going.  How^ever,  one  day  he 
told  her  boldly  that  he  must  take  a  journey  up  the 
bean-stalk.  She  begged  and  prayed  him  not  to  think 
of  it ;  she  told  him  that  the  giant's  wife  would  certainly 
know  him  again,  and  that  the  giant  would  desire 
nothing  better  than  to  get  him  into  his  power,  that  he 
might  put  him  to  a  cruel  death  in  order  to  be  revenged 
for  the  loss  of  his  hen. 

Jack  resolved  to  go  at  all  events  ;  for,  being  a  very 
clever  fellow,  although  a  very  idle  one,  he  had  no  great 


200  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

dread  of  the  giant,  concluding  that,  although  he  was  a 
cannibal,  he  must  be  a  very  stupid  fellow  not  to  have 
regained  his  hen,  it  being  just  as  easy  to  come  down 
the  stupendous  bean-stalk  as  to  ascend  it.  Jack,  there- 
fore, had  a  dress  made,  not  exactly  invisible,  like  that 
of  his  illustrious  namesake,  the  Giant-killer,  but  one 
which  so  disguised  him  that  even 

"  The  mother  tliat  him  hore 

WoiiM  not  have  known  her  ehihl." 

In  a  few  mornings  after  this,  he  rose  very  early, 
changed  his  complexion,  and,  unperceived  by  any  one, 
climbed  the  bean-stalk  a  second  time.  He  was  greatly 
fatigued  when  he  reached  the  top,  and  very  hungry, 
for,  with  his  usual  thoughtlessness,  he  forgot  to  take  a 
piece  of  bread  in  his  pocket. 

Here  we  are  inclined  to  remark  that,  as  he  had 
neither  bread  nor  bacon,  lie  must  in  his  jjrogress  have 
met  with  a  good  su})ply  of  beans ;  but  ])erhaps  he  never 
thought  of  this  resource. 

Having  rested  some  time,  he  jiursued  his  journey  to 
the  giant's  mansion.  He  reached  it  late  in  the  evening; 
the  woman  was  at  the  door  as  before.  Jack  addressed 
her,  telling  a  pitiful  tale,  and  requesting  that  she 
w^ould  give  him  some  victuals  and  drink,  and  also  a 
night's  lodging. 

She  told  him  (what  he  knew  before  verv  well)  about 
her  husband's  being  a  powerful  and  cruel  giant  ;  and 
also  that  she  one  night  admitted  a  poor,  hungry,  friend- 
less boy,  who  was  half-dead  with  travelling ;  that  the 
little  ungrateful  fellow^  had  stolen  one  of  the  giant's 
treasures,  and  ever  since  that  her  husband  had  used  her 
very  cruelly,  and  continually  upbraided  her  with  being 
the  cause  of  his  loss.  But  at  last  she  consented  and 
took  him  into  the  kitchen,  w^here,  after  he  had  done 


CHILDRKN'S    SrORIKS.  joi 

eatiii<>'  and  (lnnkin<i\  slu-  laid  him  in  an  old  Imnlx  r 
closet.  TIh"  <>iant  returned  at  the  usual  time,  and 
walked  in  so  heavily  that  the  house  was  shaken  to  the 
foundation.  He  seated  himself  bv  the  fire,  and  soon 
after  exclaimed,  "  Wife,  I  smell  fresh  meat." 

The  wife  replied,  '^  It  was  the  crows  which  had 
brou<Jjht  a  piece  of  raw  meat,  and  left  it  on  the  to])  of 
the  house." 

The  giant  was  very  ill-tempered  and  impatient,  con- 
tinually crying  for  his  supper,  like  little  Tom  Tucker, 
and  complaining  of  the  loss  of  his  wonderful  hen,  which 
we  veril}^  believe  he  would  have  eaten,  disregarding  the 
treasures  which  she  produced.  Jack  therefore  rejoiced 
that  he  had  not  only  got  possession  of  the  hen,  but  had 
in  all  })robability  saved  her  precious  life. 

The  giant's  Avife  at  last  set  suj)per  on  the  table,  and 
when  he  had  eaten  till  he  was  satisfied,  he  said  to  her — 
"  I  must  have  something  to  amuse  me,  either  my  bags 
of  money  or  my  harp."  Jack,  as  before,  peeped  out  of 
his  hiding-place,  and  presently  his  wife  brought  two 
bags  into  the  room,  one  filled  with  gold  and  the  other 
with  silver. 

They  were  both  })laced  before  the  giant,  who  began 
reprimanding  his  wife  for  staying  so  long.  She 
replied,  trembling  with  fear,  that  the  bags  were  so 
heavy  that  she  could  scarcely  lift  them,  and  adding 
that  she  had  nearly  fainted  owing  to  their  weight. 

The  giant  took  his  bags,  and  began  to  count  their 
contents.  First  the  bag  which  contained  the  silver 
was  emptied,  and  the  contents  placed  on  the  tabk . 
Jack  view^ed  the  ghttering  heaps  with  delight,  and 
most  heartil}^  wished  the  contents  in  his  own  possession. 
The  giant  (little  thinking  he  was  so  narrowly  watched) 
reckoned   the   silver   over   several   times  ;    and,  having 

14 


202  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

satisfied  himself  that  all  was  safe,  put  it  into  the  bag 
again,  which  he  made  very  secure. 

The  other  bag  was  opened  next,  and  the  gold  pieces 
placed  on  the  table.  If  Jack  was  pleased  at  the  sight 
of  the  silver,  how  much  more  delighted  must  he  have 
felt  when  he  saw  such  a  heap  of  glittering  gold  ? 

When  the  giant  had  counted  over  the  gold  till  he  was 
tired,  he  put  it  up,  if  possible,  more  secure  than  he  had 
put  up  the  silver  before  ;  he  then  fell  back  on  the  chair 
by  the  fireside,  and  fell  asleep.  He  snored  so  loud  that 
Jack  compared  the  noise  to  the  roaring  of  the  sea  in  a 
high  wind,  when  the  tide  is  coming  in.  At  last.  Jack, 
being  certain  that  he  was  asleep,  stole  out  of  his  hiding- 
place  and  approached  the  giant,  in  order  to  carr}'  off 
the  two  bags  of  money  ;  but,  just  as  he  laid  his  hand 
upon  one  of  the  bags,  a  little  dog,  which  he  had  not 
j)erceived  before,  started  from  under  the  giant's  chair 
and  barked  at  Jack  most  furiously,  who  now  gave  him- 
self up  for  lost.  But  Jack,  recollecting  that  the  giant 
had  left  the  bones  which  he  had  picked  at  supper,  threw" 
one  to  the  dog,  who  instantly  seized  it,  and  took  it  into 
the  lumber  closet  which  Jack  had  just  left. 

Finding  himself  delivered  from  a  noisy  and  trouble- 
some enemy,  and  seeing  the  giant  did  not  awake.  Jack 
seized  the  bags,  and,  throwing  them  over  his  shoulders, 
ran  out  of  the  kitchen.  He  reached  the  door  in  safety, 
and  found  it  quite  daylight. 

Jack  was  overjoyed  when  he  found  himself  near  the 
bean-stalk  ;  although  much  incommoded  with  the 
weight  of  the  money  bags,  he  soon  reached  the  bottom, 
and  immediately  ran  to  seek  his  mother.  He  was 
greatly  shocked  on  finding  her  apparently  dying,  and 
could  scarcely  bear  his  own  reflections,  knowing  himself 
to  be  the   cause.     On  being  informed  of  Jack's   safe 


CHILDREN'S    STORIES.  jo.S 

return,  his  inotlicr  iiradiially  rccovrrt-d.  Jack  prcscnlcd 
her  his  two  valuable  ba^s,  and  they  li\cd  as  Iiaj)j)il\'  and 
comfortably  as  ever. 

For  three  years,  notwithstandino-  the  comforts  Jack 
enjoyed,  his  mind  dwelt  continually  upon  the  bean- 
stalk ;  for  the  fairy's  menaces  were  ever  ])resent  to  his 
mind,  and  ])revented  him  from  bein*;-  haj)])y.  It  was  in 
vain  he  endeavoured  to  amuse  himself;  he  became 
thoughtful,  and  would  rise  at  the  dawn  of  day  and  view 
the  bean-stalk  for  hours  together. 

His  inclination  at  length  growing  too  ])owerful  for 
him,  he  began  to  make  secret  preparations  for  his 
journey,  and,  on  the  longest  day,  arose  as  soon  as  it  was 
light,  ascended  the  bean-stalk,  and  reached  the  top. 
He  arrived  at  the  giant's  mansion  in  the  evening,  and 
found  his  wife  standing,  as  usual,  at  the  door.  Jack 
had  disguised  himself  so  completely  that  she  did  not 
appear  to  have  the  least  recollection  of  him  ;  however, 
when  he  pleaded  hunger  and  poverty  in  order  to  gain 
admittance,  he  found  it  very  difficult  indeed  to  persuade 
her.  At  last  he  prevailed,  and  was  concealed  in  the 
oven. 

When  the  giant  returned,  he  said,  as  upon  the 
former  occasions,  "I  smell  fresh  meat!"  But  Jack  felt 
quite  composed,  as  he  had  said  so  before,  and  had  been 
soon  satisfied  ;  however,  the  giant  started  uj)  suddenly, 
and,  notwithstanding  all  his  wife  could  say,  he  searched 
all  around  the  room.  Jack  was  ready  to  die  with  fear, 
washing  himself  at  home  ;  the  giant  approached  the 
oven  and  put  his  hand  into  it  ;  Jack  thought  his  death 
Avas  certain. 

The  giant  at  last  gave  up  the  search  and  ate  a 
hearty  supper.  When  he  had  finished,  he  commanded 
his  wife  to  fetch  doAvn  his  harp.     Jack  peeped  as  he 


204  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

had  done  before^  and  saw  the  most  beautiful  harp  that 
could  be  miagined  ;  it  was  placed  by  the  giant  on  the 
table,  who  said,  "  Play  !  "  and  it  instantly  played  of  its 
own  accord  without  being  touched.  The  music  was 
ver}^  fine  ;  Jack  was  delighted,  and  felt  more  anxious  to 
get  the  harp  into  his  possession  than  either  of  the 
former  treasures. 

The  music  soon  lulled  the  giant  into  a  sound  sleep. 
This,  therefore,  was  the  time  to  carry  off  the  harp.  As 
the  giant  ap])eared  to  be  in  a  more  jn'ofound  sleep  than 
usual,  Jack  soon  determined,  got  out  of  the  oven,  and 
seized  the  harp.  The  harp  had  also  been  stolen  by  the 
giant  from  the  fairy. 

The  giant  suddenly  awoke  and  tried  to  pursue  him  ; 
but  he  had  drank  so  much  that  he  could  hardly  stand. 
Jack  ran  as  fast  as  he  could  ;  in  a  little  time  the  giant 
recovered  sufficiently  to  walk  slowly,  or  rather  to  reel 
after  him.  Had  he  been  sober,  he  must  have  overtaken 
Jack  instantly  ;  but,  as  he  then  was.  Jack  contrived  to 
be  first  at  the  top  of  the  bean-stalk.  The  giant  called 
after  him  in  a  voice  like  thunder,  and  sometimes  Avas 
very  near  him. 

The  moment  Jack  got  down  the  bean-stalk,  he  ran 
for  a  hatchet.  Just  at  that  instant  the  giant  was  be- 
ginning to  descend,  but  Jack  with  his  hatchet  cut  the 
bean-stalk  close  off  at  the  root,  wJiich  made  the  giant 
fall  headlong  into  the  garden,  and  the  fall  killed  him. 

At  this  instant  the  fairy  appeared ;  she  charged  Jack 
to  be  dutiful  to  his  mother,  and  to  follow  his  father's 
good  example,  which  was  the  only  way  to  be  happy. 
She  then  disappeared,  after  recovering  her  hen  and  her 
harp,  which  Jack  gave  to  her  most  thankfully,  having 
acquired  great  riches  and  revenged  the  tragical  death  of 
his  father. 


CHILDUKN'S    ST()RIi:S.  ^jo. 


THK  BABKS  IX  TUK  WOOD. 

A  great  many  years  ago,  tlu-rc  lived  in  tin-  county  of 
Norfolk  a  gentleman  and  his  lady.  Tlie  gentleman  was 
brave,  generous^  and  honourable  ;  and  the  lady  gentle, 
beautiful,  and  virtuous  ;  they  were  beloved  by  all  who 
knew  them,  and  were  blessed  with  tw^o  children,  a  boy 
and  a  girl.  The  boy  was  only  about  three  years  old, 
and  the  girl  not  quite  two^  when  the  gentleman  was 
seized  with  a  dangerous  malady,  and  the  lady,  in 
attending  her  beloved  husband,  caught  the  contagion. 
Notwithstanding  every  medical  assistance,  their  dis- 
order daily  increased  ;  and,  as  they  expected  to  be 
soon  snatched  away  from  their  little  babes,  they  sent 
for  the  gentleman's  brother,  and  gave  the  darlings  into 
his  care. 

'^'^  Ah  I  brother,"  said  the  dying  man,  "you  see  I 
have  but  a  short  time  to  live  ;  yet  neither  death  nor 
pain  can  pierce  my  heart  with  half  so  much  anguish  as 
what  I  feel  at  the  thought  of  what  these  dear  babes  will 
do  without  a  parent's  care.  Brother,  they  will  have 
none  but  you  to  be  kind  to  them,  to  see  them  clothed 
and  fed,  and  to  teach  them  to  be  good." 

''  Dear,  dear  brother,"  said  the  dying  lady,  ''  you 
must  be  father,  mother,  and  uncle  too,  to  these  dear 
innocent  lambs.  First,  let  William  be  taught  to  read  ; 
and  then  he  should  be  told  how  good  his  father  was. 
And  little  Jane-  -Oh  !  brother,  it  wrings  my  heart  to 
talk  of  her  ;  think  of  the  gentle  usage  she  will  need, 
and  take  her  fondly  on  your  knee,  brother,  and  she  and 
William  too  will  pay  your  care  with  love." 

"  How  it  does  grieve  my  heart  to  see  you,  my  dear 
relatives,    in    this    mournful     condition,"    replied    the 


206  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

uncle.  "  But  be  comforted,  there  may  yet  be  hopes  of 
your  well-doing  ;  but  should  we  have  the  misfortune  to 
lose  you,  I  will  do  all  you  can  desire  for  your  darling 
children.  In  me  they  shall  find  father,  mother,  and 
uncle ;  but,  dear  brother,  you  have  said  nothing  of 
your  wealth." 

"  H-e-r-e,  h-e-r-e,  brother/'  replied  he,  "^"^  is  my  will, 
in  which  I  have  provided  for  my  dearl)abes." 

The  gentleman  and  his  lady  then  kissed  their 
children,  and  a  short  time  after  they  both  died. 

The  uncle,  after  shedding  a  few  tears,  opened  the 
will,  in  which  he  found  that  to  William  was  bequeathed 
three  hundred  pounds  a  year  when  he  became  of  age, 
and  to  little  Jane  five  hundred  pounds  in  gold  on  her 
marriage  day.  But  if  the  children  should  chance  to  die 
before  coming  of  age^  then  all  their  wealth  was  to  be 
enjoyed  by  their  uncle.  The  will  of  the  unfortunate 
gentleman  next  desired  that  he  and  his  beloved  wife 
should  be  buried  side  by  side  in  the  same  grave. 

The  two  little  innocents  were  now  taken  to  the  house 
of  their  uncle^  who,  for  some  time,  recollecting  what 
their  j)arents  said  so  sorrowfully  upon  their  death-bed, 
behaved  to  them  with  great  kindness.  But  when  he 
had  kept  them  about  a  twelvemonth,  he  by  degrees 
forgot  to  think  both  how  their  parents  looked  when 
they  gave  their  children  to  his  care,  and  the  promises 
he  made  to  be  their  father^  mother,  and  uncle,  all  in  one. 

After  a  little  more  time  had  passed,  the  uncle  could 
not  help  thinking  that  he  wished  the  little  boy  and  girl 
would  die,  for  he  should  then  have  all  their  wealth  for 
himself;  and  when  he  had  begun  to  think  this,  he  went 
on  till  he  could  not  think  scarcely  of  anything  else  ;  and 
at  last,  says  he  to  himself,  "  It  will  not  be  very  difficult 


CHILDRKNS    ST()Hli;S.  207 

for  me  to  kill  tium^  as  nobody  knows  an\  lliiiin-  (»f  the 
matter^,  and  then  tlieir  gold  is  mine." 

When  the  barbarous  unele  had  once  broii<;lil  his 
mind  to  kill  the  helpless  little  creatures,  he  was  not 
long  in  finding  a  way  to  execute  his  cruel  i)uri)ose.  He 
hired  two  sturdy  ruffians,  who  had  already  killed  many 
travellers  in  a  dark,  thick  wood,  at  some  distance,  and 
then  robbed  them  of  their  money.  These  two  wicked 
creatures  agreed,  for  a  large  reward,  to  do  the  blackest 
deed  that  ever  yet  was  heard  of;  and  the  uncle  began 
to  })repare  everything  accordingly. 

He  told  an  artful  story  to  his  wife,  of  what  good  it 
would  be  to  put  the  children  forward  in  their  learning  ; 
how  he  had  a  relation  in  London  who  would  take  the 
greatest  care  of  them.  He  then  said  to  the  innocent 
children,  "  Should  you  not  like,  my  pretty  ones,  to  see 
the  famous  town  of  London,  where  you,  William,  can 
buy  a  fine  wooden  horse  to  ride  upon  all  day  long,  and 
a  whip  to  make  him  gallop,  and  a  fine  sword  to  wear  by 
your  side  .^  And  you,  Jane,  shall  have  pretty  dolls  and 
pretty  pincushions,  and  a  nice  gilded  coach  shall  be  got 
to  take  you  there." 

"  Oh  yes,  I  will  go,  uncle,"  said  William. 

'^Oh  yes,  I  will  go,  uncle,"  said  Jane. 

And  the  uncle,  with  a  heart  of  stone,  soon  got  them 
ready  for  their  journey. 

The  unsus})ecting  little  creatures  were  a  few  days 
after  put  into  a  fine  coach,  and  with  them  the  two  in- 
human butchers,  who  were  soon  to  end  their  joyful 
prattle,  and  turn  their  smiles  to  tears.  One  of  them 
served  as  coachman,  and  the  other  sat  between  little 
William  and  little  Jane. 

When  they  had  reached  the  entrance  to  the  dark, 
thick   wood,  the   two  ruffians    took    them    out    of  the 


208  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

coach^  telling-  them  they  might  now  walk  a  little  way 
and  gather  flowers  ;  and^  while  the  children  were 
skipping  about  like  lambs^  the  ruffians  turned  their 
backs  on  them,  and  began  to  consult  about  what  they 
had  to  do. 

"  In  good  truth,"  says  the  one  who  had  been  sitting 
all  the  way  between  the  children^  "■  now  I  have  seen 
their  cherub  faces,  and  heard  their  pretty  speech,  I  have 
no  heart  to  do  the  bloody  deed  ;  let  us  fling  away  the 
ugly  knife,  and  send  the  children  back  to  their  uncle." 

"  That  I  will  not,"  says  the  other  ;  "  what  boots  their 
})retty  speech  to  us  }  And  who  will  pay  us  for  being 
so  chicken-hearted  }  " 

At  last  the  ruffians  fell  into  so  great  a  passion  about 
butchering  the  innocent  little  creatures,  that  he  who 
wished  to  spare  their  lives  suddenly  opened  the  great 
knife  he  had  brought  to  kill  them,  and  stabbed  the 
other  to  the  heart,  so  that  he  fell  down  dead. 

The  one  who  had  killed  him  was  now  greatly  at  a 
loss  what  to  do  with  the  children,  for  he  wanted  to  get 
away  as  fast  as  he  could,  for  fear  of  being  found  in  the 
wood.  He  was  not,  however,  long  in  determining  that 
he  must  leave  them  in  the  wood,  to  the  chance  of  some 
traveller  passing  by.  "  Look  ye,  my  pretty  ones,"  said 
he,  '^'^you  must  each  take  hold  and  come  along  with 
me."  The  poor  children  each  took  a  hand  and  went 
on,  the  tears  bursting  from  their  eyes,  and  their  little 
limbs  trembling  with  fear. 

Thus  did  he  lead  them  about  two  miles  further  on  in 
the  wood,  and  told  them  to  wait  there  till  he  came  back 
with  some  cakes. 

William  took  his  sister  Jane  by  the  hand,  and  they 
wandered  fearfully  up  and  down  the  wood. 


CHILDRFA'S    S'rOKIl'.S.  'j()(> 

''^  Will  the  straiiof  man  come  with  some  cakes, 
Billy  ?"  says  Jane. 

"Presently,  dear  Jane,"  says  William. 

And  soon  aoain,  '■'■  I  wish  I  had  some  cakes.  Hilly," 
said  she. 

And  it  would  have  melted  a  heart  of  stone  to  see 
how  sorrowfully  they  looked. 

After  waitino-  very  long-,  they  tried  to  satisfy  their 
hunger  with  blackberries,  but  they  soon  devoured  all 
that  were  within  their  reach  ;  and  night  c-oming  on, 
William,  who  had  tried  all  he  could  to  comfort  his 
little  sister,  now  wanted  eomfort  himself;  so  when  Jane 
said  once  more,  "How  hungry  I  am,  Billy,  I  b-e-1-i-e-v-e 
I  cannot  help  crying,"  William  burst  out  crying  too  ; 
and  down  they  lay  upon  the  cold  earth,  and  ])utting 
their  arms  round  each  other's  neck,  there  they  starved, 
and  there  they  died. 

Thus  were  these  pretty  little  innocents  murdered  ; 
and  as  no  one  knew^  of  their  death,  so  no  one  sought  to 
give  them  burial. 

The  wicked  uncle,  su})posing  they  had  been  killed  as 
he  desired,  told  all  who  asked  after  them  an  artful  tale 
of  their  having  died  in  London  of  the  smallpox,  and 
accordingly  took  possession  o})enly  of  their  fortune. 

But  all  this  did  him  very  little  service,  for  soon  after 
his  wife  died  ;  and  being  very  unha})py,  and  always 
thinking  too  that  he  saw"  the  bleeding  innocents  before 
his  eyes,  he  neglected  all  his  business  ;  so  that,  instead 
of  growing  richer,  he  every  day  grew  ])oorer.  His  two 
sons,  also,  who  had  embarked  for  a  foreign  land,  were 
both  drowned  at  sea,  and  he  became  completely  miser- 
able. 

W^hen  thing's  had  gone  on  in  this  manner  for  vears, 
the  ruffian  who  took  pity  on  the  children  committed 


'JIO  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

another  robbery  in  the  wood,  and,  being  pursued  by 
some  men^  he  was  laid  hold  of  and  brought  to  prison^ 
and  soon  after  was  tried  at  the  assizes,  and  found 
guilty — so  that  he  was  condemned  to  be  hanged  for 
the  crime. 

As  soon  as  he  found  what  his  unhappy  end  must  be, 
he  sent  for  the  keeper  of  the  prison,  and  confessed  to 
him  all  the  crimes  he  had  been  guilty  of  in  his  whole 
life,  and  thus  declared  the  story  of  the  pretty  innocents, 
telling  him  at  the  same  time  in  what  })art  of  the  wood 
he  had  left  them  to  starve. 

The  news  of  the  discovery  he  had  made  soon  reached 
the  uncle's  ears,  who,  being  already  broken-hearted  by 
misfortunes  that  had  befallen  him,  and  unable  to  bear 
the  load  of  public  shame  that  could  not  but  await  him, 
lay  down  upon  his  bed  and  died  that  very  day. 

No  sooner  were  the  tidings  of  the  fate  of  the  two 
children  made  public  than  proper  persons  were  sent  to 
search  the  wood  ;  when,  after  many  fruitless  endeavours, 
the  pretty  babes  were  at  length  found  outstretched  in 
each  other's  arms,  with  William's  arm  round  the  neck 
of  Jane,  his  face  turned  close  to  her's,  and  his  frock 
pulled  over  her  body.  They  were  covered  all  over  with 
leaves,  which  in  all  that  time  never  withered  ;  and  on 
a  bush  near  this  cold  grave  a  Robin-Redbreast  watched 
and  chirped — so  that  many  gentle  hearts  still  think 
that  pretty  bird  did  bring  the  leaves  which  made  their 
grave. 

JACK    THE    GIANT    KILLER. 

In  the  reign  of  King  Arthur,  near  the  Land's  End  of 
England,  in  the  County  of  Cornwall,  there  lived  a 
wealthy    farmer,    who    had    one    only    son,    commonly 


CHILDREN'S    STORIKS.  till 

known  by  the  name  of  Jack.  He  was  brisk,  and  of  a 
Hvelv  ready  wit  ;  so  tliat  whatever  he  could  not  ))cr- 
fonn  by  strength,  he  completed  by  wit  and  policy. 
Never  was  any  person  lieard  of  that  could  worst  him  ; 
nay^  the  learned  he  baffled  by  his  cunning  and  ready 
inventions. 

For  instance,  when  he  was  no  more  than  seven  years 
of  age,  his  father  sent  him  into  the  field  to  look  after 
his  oxen  ;  a  country  vicar,  by  chance  one  day  coming 
across  the  field,  called  Jack,  and  asked  him  several 
questions — in  particular.  How  many  commandments 
were  there  ?     Jack  told  him  there  were  nine. 

The  Parson  replied,  "  There  are  ten." 

"Nay/'  quoth  Jack,  "Master  Parson,  you  are  out  of 
that ;  it  is  true  there  were  ten,  but  you  broke  one  of 
them  with  your  own  maid  Margery." 

The  Parson  replied,  "  Thou  art  an  arch  wag.  Jack." 

"Well,  Master  Parson,"  quoth  Jack,  "you  have  asked 
me  one  question,  and  I  have  answered  it ;  let  me  ask 
you  another.     Who  made  these  oxen  ?  " 

The  Parson  replied,  "  God." 

"You  are  out  again,"  quoth  Jack,  "for  God  made 
them  bulls,  but  my  father  and  his  man  Hobson  made 
oxen  of  them." 

The  Parson,  finding  himself  fooled,  trudged  away, 
leaving  Jack  in  a  fit  of  laughter. 

In  those  days  the  mount  of  Cornwall  was  kejit  by  a 
huge  and  monstrous  Giant,  of  twenty-seven  feet  high, 
and  three  yards  in  compass,  of  a  grim  countenance,  to 
the  terror  of  all  the  neighbouring  towns.  His  habita- 
tion was  a  cave  in  the  midst  of  the  mount ;  neither 
would  he  suffer  any  living  creature  near  him  ;  his  feed- 
ing was  u})on  other  men's  cattle  ;  for  whensoever  he 
had  occasion  for  food,  he  would  wade  over  to  the  main- 


212  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

land,  where  he  would  furnish  liimself  with  whatever  he 
could  find.  For  the  people  at  his  approach  would  for- 
sake their  habitations  ;  then  he  would  take  their  cows 
and  oxen,  of  which  he  would  make  nothing  to  carry 
over  his  back  half-a-dozen  at  a  time  ;  and  as  for 
sheep  and  hogs,  he  would  tie  them  round  his  waist. 
This  he  had  for  many  years  practised  in  Cornwall. 

But  one  day  Jack,  coming  to  the  Town  Hall,  when 
the  Magistrates  were  sitting  in  consternation  about  the 
Giant,  he  asked  what  reward  they  would  give  to  any 
person  that  would  destroy  him  ? 

They  answered,  "  He  shall  have  all  the  Giant's 
treasure  in  recompense." 

Quoth  Jack,  "  Then  I  myself  will  undertake  the 
work." 

Jack  furnished  himself  witli  a  horn,  a  shovel,  and  a 
pick-axe,  and  over  to  the  mount  he  goes  in  the 
beginning:  of  a  dark  winter  eveniniij,  where  he  fell  to 
work,  and  before  morning  had  digged  a  pit  twenty-two 
feet  deep  and  as  broad,  and  covered  the  same  over  with 
long  sticks  and  straw  ;  then  strewxd  a  li  tie  mould 
upon  it,  so  that  it  appeared  like  the  plain  ground. 

This  done.  Jack  places  himself  on  the  contrary  side 
of  the  pit,  just  about  the  dawning  of  the  day,  when, 
putting  his  horn  to  his  mouth,  he  then  blew,  Tan  Ttrivie, 
tan  twivie.  Which  unexpected  noise  roused  the  Giant, 
who  came  roaring  towards  Jack,  crying  out— -'^'^  You  in- 
corrigible villain,  are  you  come  hither  to  break  my 
rest ;  you  shall  dearl}^  pay  for  it  ;  satisfaction  1  will 
have,  and  it  shall  be  this  :  I  will  take  you  wholly  and 
broil  you  for  my  breakfast." 

Which  words  were  no  sooner  out  of  his  mouth  but 
he  tumbled  headlong  into  the  deep  pit,  which  heavy 
fall  made  the  very  foundation  of  the  mount  to  shake. 


CHILDRI'A'S    STOUIKS.  Jl;; 

"  Oh,  (iiant  !  wiicrc  aiv  you  now  ?  Faith,  you  arc 
^•()t  into  Lobh's  Pond,  \v  hert'  I  shall  plao-uc  you  for  yom- 
thrt'at(.'nini>;  words.  What  do  you  think  now  (»t"  hroilino- 
nie  for  your  breakfast  ?  Will  no  otlui"  diet  ser\c  \()u 
but  })oor  Jack  ?  " 

Thus  havinji'  tantalized  the  (iiant  for  a  while,  he  iiave 
him  a  most  weighty  knock  on  the  crown  of  his  head 
with  his  pick-axe,  so  that  he  immediately  tumbled 
down,  gave  a  most  dreadful  groan,  and  died.  This 
done^  Jack  threw  the  eartli  in  upon  him,  and  so  buried 
hmi  ;  then  going  and  searching  the  cave,  he  found  a 
great  quantity  of  treasure. 

Now,  w  hen  the  Magistrates  who  employed  him  heard 
the  work  was  over,  they  sent  for  him,  declaring  that  he 
should  be  called  Jack  the  Ciiant  Killer.  And  in  hcmour 
thereof,  they  presented  him  with  a  sword,  together  with 
a  fine  rich  embroidered  belt,  on  which  these  words  were 
Mrought  in  letters  of  gold — 

'•  Here's  the  right  valiant  Cornish  man, 
Who  slew  the  Giant  Corrnilhin." 

The  news  of  Jack's  victory  was  soon  spread  ;  when 
another  huge  Giant  named  Blunderboar,  hearing  of  it, 
vowed  to  be  revenged  on  Jack,  if  ever  it  was  his 
fortune  to  light  upon  him.  This  Oiant  ke})t  an 
enchanted  castle,  situated  in  the  midst  of  a  lonesome 
wood.  Now  Jack,  about  four  months  after,  walking- 
near  the  borders  of  the  said  wood  on  his  journey 
towards  Wales,  grew  weary,  and  therefore  sat  himself 
down  by  the  side  of  a  pleasant  fountain,  where  a  deep 
sleep  suddenly  seized  on  him,  at  which  time  the  Oiant, 
coming  for  water,  found  him  ;  and,  by  the  line  on  his 
belt,  knew  him  to  be  Jack  that  killed  his  brother,  and, 


214  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

without  any  words,  threw  him  upon  his  slioulder  to 
cany  him  to  his  enchanted  castle. 

Now,  as  they  passed  through  a  thicket,  the  ruffling 
of  the  boughs  awaked  poor  Jack,  who,  finding  himself 
in  the  clutches  of  the  Giant,  was  strangely  surprised ; 
for,  at  the  entering  within  the  first  walls  of  the  castle, 
he  beheld  the  ground  all  covered  with  bones  and  skulls 
of  dead  men,  the  Giant  telling  Jack  that  his  bones 
would  enlarge  the  number  that  he  saw.  This  said,  he 
brought  him  into  a  large  parlour,  where  he  beheld  the 
bloody  quarters  of  some  who  were  lately  slain,  and  in 
the  next  room  were  man}"  hearts  and  livers,  which 
the  Giant,  in  order  to  terrify  Jack,  told  him — "  That 
men's  hearts  and  livers  were  the  choicest  of  his  diet,  for 
he  commonly  ate  them  with  pepper  and  vinegar,  and  he 
did  not  question  but  his  heart  would  make  him  a 
dainty  bit."  This  said,  he  locks  up  poor  Jack  in  an 
upper  room,  while  he  went  to  fetch  another  Giant 
living  in  the  same  wood,  that  he  might  partake  in  the 
destruction  of  poor  Jack. 

Now,  while  he  was  gone,  dreadful  shrieks  and  cries 
affrighted  poor  Jack,  especially  a  voice  which  con- 
tinually cried—- 

"  Do  what  you  can  to  get  away, 
Or  you'll  become  the  Giant's  prey  ; 
He's  gone  to  fetch  his  brother,  who 
Will  kill  and  likewise  torture  you." 

This  dreadful  noise  so  amazed  poor  Jack,  he  was 
ready  to  run  distracted  ;  seeing  from  the  window  afar 
off  the  two  Giants  coming,  "  Now,"  quoth  Jack  to  him- 
self, '^my  death  or  deliverance  is  at  hand." 

There  were  strong  cords  in  tlie  room  by  him,  of 
which  he  takes  two,  at  the  end  of  which  he  makes  a 
noose,  and,  while  the  Giant  was  unlocking  the  ^ate,  he 


CHILDRf:N'S    STORIES.  ^2]r> 

threw  the  roj)es  over  eaeli  of  the  ht-ads.  and  (hviwiiii;- 
tlie  other  end  aeross  the  beam,  he  ])uHed  with  all  his 
strength  until  he  had  tlirottled  them  ;  and  tlien  fasten- 
ing the  ro})e  to  the  beam^  turning  towards  the  window 
he  beheld  the  two  Giants  to  be  black  in  their  faces. 
Sliding  down  by  the  ro})e^  he  came  close  to  their  heads, 
where  the  helpless  Giants  could  not  defend  themsehes; 
and,  drawing  out  his  sword,  slew  them  both,  and 
delivered  himself  from  their  intended  cruelty ;  then 
taking  out  a  bunch  of  keys,  he  unlocked  the  rooms, 
wdiere  he  found  three  fair  ladies  tied  by  the  hair  of 
their  heads,  almost  starved  to  death,  who  told  Jack 
that  their  husbands  were  slain  by  the  Giant,  and  that 
they  were  kept  many  days  without  food,  in  order  to 
force  them  to  feed  u])on  the  flesh  of  their  husbands. 

"  Sweet  ladies,"  mioth  Jack,  "^  I  have  destroyed  this 
-,* « ♦ 

monster  and  his  bru1,j^l}  brother,  by  which  I  ha\e 
obtained  your  liberties."  This  said,  he  presented  them 
with  the  keys  of  the  castle,  and  so  proceeded  on  his 
journey  to  Wales. 

Jack,  having  but  very  little  monc};,  thought  it 
prudent  to  make,  the  best  of  his  way  by  travelling 
as  fast  as  he  could  ;  but,  losing  his  road,  was 
benighted,  and  could  not  get  a  place  of  entertainment 
until  he  came  to  a  valley  placed  between  two  hills, 
where  stood  a  large  house  in  a  lonesome  place.  He 
took  courage  to  knock  at  the  gate,  and  to  his  great 
surprise  rhere  came  forth  a  monstrous  Giant,  having 
two  heads  ;  yet  he  did  not  seem  so  fiery  as  the  others 
had  been,  for  he  was  a  Welsh  Giant,  and  what  he  did 
was  by  secret  malice  ;  for.  Jack  telling  his  condition,  he 
bid  him  welcome,  showing  him  a  room  with  a  bed  in  it, 
whereon  he  might  take  his  night's  repose  ;  therefore. 
Jack  undressed  himself,  and,  as  the  Giant  was  walking- 


216  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

to  another  apartment^  Jack  heard  him  muttering  forth 
these  words  to  himself — 

"  Though  here  you  lodge  with  me  this  night, 
"    You  shall  not  see  the  morning  light  ; 

My  club  shall  dash  your  brains  out  quite." 

"Sayest  thou  so,"  quoth  Jack;  "this  is  like  your 
Welsh  tricks,  yet  I  hope  to  be  cunning  enough  for  you." 
Then,  getting  out  of  bed,  he  put  a  billet  in  his  stead, 
and  hid  himself  in  a  corner  of  the  room  ;  and,  m  the 
dead  time  of  the  night,  the  Welsh  Giant  came  with  his 
great  knotty  club,  and  struck  several  blows  upon  the 
bed  where  Jack  had  laid  the  billet,  and  then  returned 
to  his  own  chamber,  sup})Osing  he  had  broken  all  the 
bones  in  his  body. 

In  the  morning,  Jack  gave  him  hearty  thanks  for  his 
lodging. 

The  Giant  said  to  him,  "  How  have  you  rested  } 
Did  you  not  feel  something  in  the  night  f  ' 

"  Nothing,"  quoth  Jack,  "  but  a  rat  which  gave  me 
three  or  four  slaps  with  her  tail." 

Soon  after  the  Giant  arose  and  went  to  breakfast 
with  a  bowl  of  hasty  pudding,  containing  nearly  four 
gallons,  giving  Jack  the  hke  quantity,  who,  being  loath 
to  let  the  Giant  know  he  could  not  eat  with  him,  got  a 
large  leathern  bag,  jiutting  it  very  artfully  under  his 
loose  coat,  into  which  he  secretly  conveyed  his  pudding, 
telling  the  Giant  he  could  show  him  a  trick  ;  then, 
taking  a  large  knife,  he  ripped  open  the  bag,  which  the 
Giant  supposed  to  be  his  belly,  when  out  came  the 
hasty  pudding,  at  which  the  Welsh  Giant  cried, 
"  Cotplut,  hur  can  do  dat  trick  hurself " 

Then,  taking  his  sharj)  knife,  he  ripped  up  his  own 
belly  from  the  bottom  to  the  to}),  and  out  dro})ped  his 


CHILDRKN'S    STORIKS.  till 

tripes  and  trolly  bags,  so  that  he  fell  down  tor  dead. 
Thus  Jack  outwitted  the  (Jiant,  and  |)rocccdcd  on  his 
journey. 

About  this  tinu-  King  Arthur's  son  only  desired  ot" 
his  father  to  t'urnisii  him  with  a  certain  sum  of  money, 
that  he  niioht  m)  and  seek   his  fortune  in  Wales,  where 


■f^"""  ?-> 


a  beautiful  lady  lived,  whom  he  heard  was  ])ossessed 
with  seven  evil  spirits;  but  tiie  King,  his  father,  advised 
him  utterly  against  it,  yet  he  would  not  be  j)ersuaded 
of  it ;  so  he  granted  what  he  requested,  which  was  one 
horse  loaded  with  money,  and  another  for  himself  to 
ride  on.      Thus  he  went  forth  without  any  attendants. 

Now,  after  several  days'  travel,  he  came  to  a  market 
town  in  Wales,  where  he  beheld  a  large  concourse  of 
people  gathered  together;  the  Kings  son  demanded  the 
reason  of  it,  and  was  told  that  they  had  arrested  a 
corpse  for  many  large  sums  of  money  which  the 
deceased  owed  when  he  died.  The  King's  son  replied, 
"  It  is  a  pity  that  creditors  should  be  so  cruel ;  go  bury 
the  dead,  and  let  his  creditors  come  to  my  lodging, 
and  their  debts  shall  be  discharged."  Accordingly, 
they  came  in  great  numbers,  so  that  he  left  himself 
moneyless. 

Now,  Jack  the  Giant  Killer  being  there  and  seeing 
the  generosity  of  the  King's  son,  he  was  taken  with 
him,  and  desired  to  be  his  servant ;  it  was  agreed  upon 
the  next  morning,  when  riding  out  at  the  town-end, 
the  King's  son  turning  to  Jack,  said,  "  I  cannot  tell 
how  I  will  subsist  in  my  intended  journev." 

"  For  that,"  quoth  Jack,  "  take  you  no  care  ;  let  me 
alone,  I  warrant  you  we  will  not  starve," 

Now  Jack,  having  a  spell  in  his  pocket,  which  served 
at  noon  for  a  refreshment,  when  done  they  had  not  one 
penny  left  betwixt  them.      The  afternoon  thev  spent  in 

15 


218  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

travel  and  discourse  till  the  sun  began  to  grow  low^  at 
which  time  the  King's  son  said^  '^'  Jack^  since  we  have 
no  money,  where  can  we  think  to  lodge  this  night  ?  " 

Jack  replied,  "  We'll  do  well  enough,  for  I  have  an 
uncle  living  within  two  miles  of  this  ;  he  is  a  monstrous 
Giant  with  three  heads  ;  he  will  fight  five  hundred 
men  in  armour,  and  make  them  to  fly  before  him." 

"^  Alas  I  "  saith  the  King's  son,  ''  what  shall  we  do 
there  :  he  will  certainly  chop  us  both  up  at  one 
mouthful  !  " 

'•  It  is  no  mattter  for  that,"  quoth  Jack  ;  "  I  will  go 
before  and  prepare  the  way  for  you  ;  tarry  here." 

He  waits,  and  Jack  rides  full  speed.  When  he  came 
to  the  castle,  he  knocked  with  such  a  force  that  he 
made  all  the  neighbouring  hills  to  resound.  The  Giant, 
with  a  voice  like  thunder,  roared  out,  "  Who's  there  }  " 

Jack  answered,  "  None  but  your  own  cousin  Jack, 
Dear  uncle,  heavy  news,  God  wot." 

"  Prithee,  what  heavy  news  can  come  to  me  }  I  am 
a  Giant  with  three  heads,  and  besides  thou  knowest  I 
can  fight  five  hundred  men." 

"  O  I  but,"  quoth  Jack,  "  here's  tlie  King's  son 
coming  with  one  thousand  men  to  kill  you." 

"  Oh  !  Jack,  this  is  heavy  news  indeed  ;  I  have  a 
large  vault  underground,  where  I  will  hide  myself,  and 
thou  shalt  lock,  bolt,  and  bar  me  in,  and  keep  the  keys 
till  the  King's  son  is  gone." 

Jack,  having  secured  the  Giant,  he  returned  and 
fetched  his  master.  They  were  both  heartily  merry 
with  the  wine  and  other  dainties  which  were  in  the 
house  ;  so  that  night  they  rested  in  very  pleasant 
lodgings,  whilst  the  poor  uncle,  the  Giant,  lay  trembling 
in  the  vault  underground. 

Early  in  the  morning.  Jack  furnished  his  master  with 


CHILDRKX'S   STORIKS.  2iy 

a  supply  of  gold  and  silver,  and  set  him  three  miles 
forward  on  his  journey,  eoneludino;  he  was  then  pretty 
well  out  of  the  smell  of  the  Ciiant,  and  then  returned  to 
let  his  unele  out  of  the  hole,  who  asked  Jack  what  he 
would  give  him  in  reward,  since  his  castle  was  not 
demolished. 

'^'  Why,"  quoth  Jack,  "'  I  desire  nothing  but  the  old 
Coat  and  Cap,  together  with  the  old  rusty  Sword  and 
Slip})ers,  which  are  at  your  bed-head." 

"  Jack,  thou  shalt  have  them,  and  pray  keep  them 
for  inv  sake,  for  they  are  things  of  excellent  use.  The 
Coat  will  kee})  you  invisible,  the  Cap  will  furnish  you 
with  knowledge,  the  Sword  cuts  asunder  whatever  you 
strike,  and  the  Shoes  are  of  extraordinary  swiftness  ; 
these  may  be  serviceable  to  you,  and  therefore  jiray 
take  them  with  all  my  heart." 

Jack  takes  them,  thanking  his  uncle,  and  follows  his 
master. 

Jack,  having  overtaken  his  master,  soon  after  arrived 
at  the  lady's  house,  who,  finding  the  King's  son  to  be  a 
suitor,  prepared  a  banquet  for  him,  and,  being  ended, 
she  wiped  his  mouth  with  her  napkin,  saying,  '■'  You 
must  show  this  to-morrow  or  lose  your  head  ;  "  and  she 
put  it  safely  into  her  bosom. 

The  King's  son  went  to  bed  sorrowful,  but  Jack's 
Cap  of  knowledge  instructed  him  how  to  obtain  it.  In 
the  middle  of  the  nighty,  she  called  upon  her  familiar 
spirit  to  carry  her  to  Lucifer.  Jack  put  on  his  Coat 
of  darkness,  with  his  Shoes  of  swiftness,  and  was  there 
as  soon  as  she  ;  by  reason  of  his  Coat  they  could  not 
see  him.  When  she  entered  the  place,  she  gave  the 
handkerchief  to  old  Lucifer,  who  laid  it  carefully  upon 
a  shelf,  from  whence  Jack  brought  it  to  his  master,  who 
showed  it  to  the  lady  the  next  day. 


220  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

The  next  night  she  sahited  the  King's  son,  telhng 
him  he  must  show  her  to-morrow  morning  the  Hps  that 
she  kissed  last  this  night,  or  lose  his  head. 

"  Ah  !  "  replied  he,  "  if  you  kiss  none  but  mine 
I  will." 

"  It  is  neither  here  nor  there,"  said  she  ;  "  if  you  do 
not,  death's  your  portion." 

At  midnight,  she  went  as  before,  and  was  angry 
with  Lucifer  for  letting  the  handkerchief  go.  "  But 
now,"  said  she,  "  I  will  be  too  hard  for  the  King's  son, 
for  I  will  kiss  thee,  and  he's  to  show  thy  lips."  Jack, 
standing  near  him  with  his  Sword  of  sharpness,  cut  off 
the  devil's  head,  and  brought  it  under  his  invisible  Coat 
to  his  master,  who  was  in  bed,  and  laid  it  at  the  end  of 
his  bolster.  In  the  morning  when  the  lady  came  up, 
he  pulled  it  out  by  the  horns  and  showed  her  the 
devil's  lips,  which  she  kissed  last. 

Thus,  having  answered  her  twice,  the  enchantment 
broke,  and  the  evil  spirits  left  her,  at  which  time  she 
appeared  a  beautiful  and  virtuous  creature.  They  were 
married  next  morning  in  great  pomp  and  solemnity, 
and  returned  with  a  numerous  company  to  the  Court  of 
King  Arthui-^where  they  were  received  with  the 
greatest  joy  and  loud  acclamations.  Jack,  for  the 
many  and  great  exploits  he  had  done  for  the  good  of 
his  country,  was  made  one  of  the  Knights  of  the 
Round  Table. 

Jack,  having  resolved  not  to  be  idle,  humbly 
requested  of  the  King  to  fit  him  with  a  horse  and 
money  to  travel  ;  "  for,"  said  he,  ''  there  are  many 
Giants  alive  in  the  remotest  parts  of  the  kingdom,  to 
the  unspeakable  damage  of  your  Majesty's  liege 
subjects  ;   wherefore,   may    it    please    your    Majesty  to 


CHILDREN'S    STORIKS.  ^j^2I 

<]^ive  me  encoiiraoemcnt  to  rid  tlie  realm  of  tliost-  cnicl 
and  devtmrino-  monsters  of  nature,  root  and  hraneh." 

Xow.  when  the  King  had  heard  tliese  noble  proposi- 
tions, and  had  duly  eonsidered  the  misehievous  praetiees 
of  those  bloodthirsty  Giants,  he  immediately  granted 
what  Jaek  requested  ;  and,  being  furnished  with  all 
neeessaries  for  his  progress,  he  took  his  leave  of  King- 
Arthur,  taking  with  him  the  Cap  of  knowledge.  Sword 
of  shar])ness.  Shoes  of  swiftness,  and  likewise  the 
invisible  Coat,  the  better  to  perfeet  and  eomplete  the 
dangerous  enterprises  that  lay  before  him. 

Jaek  travelled  over  vast  hills  and  mountains,  when 
at  the  end  of  three  d-dys  he  came  to  a  large  and 
spacious  wood,  wliere  on  a  sudden  he  heard  dreadful 
shrieks  and  cries  ;  whereuj)on,  casting  his  eyes  around, 
he  beheld  a  Giant  rushing  along  with  a  worthy  knight 
and  his  fair  lady,  whom  he  held  by  the  hair  of  their 
heads  in  his  hands  ;  wherefore  he  alighted  from  his 
horse,  and  then  putting  on  his  invisible  Coat,  under 
which  he  carried  his  Sword  of  sharpness,  he  came  up  to 
the  Giant,  and,  though  he  made  several  passes  at  him, 
yet  he  could  not  reach  the  trunk  of  his  body,  by  reason 
of  his  height,  though  he  wounded  his  thighs  in  several 
places  ;  but  at  length,  giving  a  swinging  stroke,  he  cut 
off  both  his  legs  just  below  the  knee,  so  that  the  trunk 
of  his  body  made  the  ground  to  shake  with  the  force  of 
his  fall,  at  which  the  knight  and  the  lady  escaped. 
Then  had  Jack  time  to  talk  with  him,  and,  setting  his 
foot  upon  his  neck,  said,  "  You  savage  and  barbarous 
wretch,  I  am  come  to  execute  upon  you  the  just  reward 
of  your  villainy."  And  with  that  running  him  through 
and  through,  the  monster  sent  forth  a  hideous  groan, 
and  yielded   up  his  life,  while   the   noble   knight  and 


222  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

virtuous  lady  were  joyful  spectators  of  his  sudden 
downfall  and  their  own  dehverance. 

This  being  done,  the  courteous  knight  and  his  fair 
lady  returned  him  hearty  thanks  for  their  deliverance, 
but  also  invited  him  home,  there  to  refresh  himself 
after  the  dreadful  encounter,  as  likewise  to  receive 
ample  reward,  by  way  of  gratitude  for  his  good 
service. 

"  No,"  quoth  Jack,  "  1  cannot  be  at  ease  till  I  find 
out  the  den  which  was  this  monster's  habitation." 

The  knight  hearing  this,  waxed  sorrowful,  and 
replied,  "  Noble  stranger,  it  is  too  much  to  run  a 
second  risk,  for  this  monster  lived  in  a  den  under  yon 
mountain,  with  a  brother  of  his,  more  fierce  than  him- 
self ;  therefore,  if  you  go  thither  and  perish  in  the 
attempt,  it  will  be  the  heartbreaking  of  both  me  and 
my  lady.      Eet  me  persuade  you  to  go  with  us." 

"  Nay,"  quoth  Jack,  "  if  there  were  twenty  I  would 
shed  the  last  drop  of  my  blood  before  one  of  them 
should  escape  my  fury,  but  when  I  have  finished  this 
task,  I  will  come  and  pay  my  respects  to  you."  So, 
taking  directions  to  their  habitation,  he  mounted  his 
horse,  and  went  in  pursuit  of  the  deceased  Giant's 
brother. 

Jack  had  not  rode  j)ast  a  mile  before  he  came  in 
sight  of  the  cave's  mouth,  at  the  entrance  of  which  he 
beheld  the  other  Giant  sitting  upon  a  huge  block  of 
timber,  with  a  knotty  iron  club  by  his  side,  waiting 
for  his  brother's  return  with  his  cruel  prey ;  his  goggle 
eyes  appeared  like  terrible  flames  of  fire,  his  counten- 
ance grim  and  ugly,  and  his  cheeks  appeared  like  a 
couple  of  large  flitches  of  bacon  ;  the  bristles  of  his 
head  seemed  to  resemble  rods  of  iron  wire  ;  his  locks 
hung  down  on  his  broad  shoulders  like  curled  snakes. 


CHILDHKN'S    STORIKS.  jj.j 

Jack  ali<>hted  from  his  horse,  and  put  him  into  a 
thicket;  then  with  his  Coat  of  darkness  he  came  near 
to  behold  liis  fi<;ure,  and  said,  "Oil  !  are  you  there  ?  It 
will  not  be  lon<>-  before  I  take  you  by  the  beard." 

The  Giant  could  not  see  him  by  reason  of  his 
invisible  Coat  :  so  Jack  fetchin<jf  a  blow  at  his  head 
with  his  Sword  of  sharpness,  and  missinnf  somewhat  of 
his  aim,  cut  off  the  (nant's  nose,  whose  nostrils  were 
wider  than  a  })air  of  jack-boots  ;  the  pain  was  terrible  ; 
he  put  uj)  his  hand  to  feel  for  his  nose,  and  when  he 
could  not  find  it  he  raved  and  roared  louder  than 
thunder  ;  and  though  he  turned  up  his  large  eyes,  he 
could  not  see  from  whence  the  blow  came,  nevertheless, 
he  took  up  his  iron-headed  club  and  began  to  thrash 
about  him  like  one  stark  mad. 

"  Xay,"  quoth  Jack,  "if  you  be  for  that  s])ort,  then 
I  will  dispatch  you  quickly,  for  fear  of  an  accidental 
blow." 

Then  Jack  makes  no  more  to  do,  but  runs  his  sword 
up  to  the  hilt  in  the  Giant's  fundament,  wdiere  he  left 
it  sticking  for  a  while,  and  stood  himself  laughing,  to 
see  the  Giant  caper  and  dance  with  the  sword  in  his 
body,  crying  out,  '"'  I  shall  die  with  the  gripping  of  my 
guts." 

Thus  did  the  Giant  continue  raving  for  an  hour  or 
more,  and  at  length  fell  down  dead. 

This  being  done.  Jack  cut  off  both  the  Giants'  heads, 
and  sent  them  to  King  Arthur  by  a  Maggoner,  whom 
he  hired  for  the  pur})ose. 

Jack  having  dispatched  these  two  monsters,  resolved 
to  enter  the  cave  in  search  of  the  Giants'  treasure.  He 
passed  through  many  turnings  and  windings,  which  led 
him  at  length  to  a  room  paved  with  freestone,  at  the 
upper  end  of  which  was  a  boiling  caldron  ;  on  the  right 


224  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

hand  stood  a  large  table,  where  the  Giants  used  to 
dine.  Then  he  came  to  an  iron  gate,  where  was  a 
window  secured  with  bars  of  iron,  through  which  he 
looked,  and  beheld  a  vast  many  captives,  who,  seeing 
Jack,  said,  "Young  man,  art  thou  come  to  be  one 
among  us  in  this  miserable  den  f  " 

"  Najs"  quoth  Jack,  "  I  hope  I  shall  not  tarry  long 
here  ;  but  what  is  the  meaning  of  .your  captivity  ?  " 

"Why,"  said  one  of  them,  "  w^e  have  been  taken  by 
the  Giants,  and  here  we  are  kept  till  they  have  a  feast, 
then  the  fattest  among  us  is  slaughtered  for  their 
devouring  jaws.  It  is  not  long  since  they  took  three 
of  us  for  the  purpose." 

"Say  you  so,"  quoth  Jack  ;  "  well,  I  have  given  them 
both  such  a  dinner  that  it  will  be  long  enough  ere  they 
need  any  more.  You  may  believe  me,  for  I  have  slain 
them  both,  and  as  for  their  monstrous  heads,  I  sent 
them  to  the  court  of  King  Arthur,  as  trophies  of  my 
victory." 

Then  leading  them  to  the  aforesaid  room,  he  placed 
them  round  the  table,  and  set  before  them  two  quarters 
of  beef,  also  bread  and  wine,  so  that  they  feasted  there 
very  plentifully.  Supper  being  ended,  they  searched 
the  Giants'  coffers,  where,  finding  a  vast  store  of  gold. 
Jack  divided  it  equally  among  them.  They  all  returned 
him  hearty  thanks  for  their  treasure  and  miraculous 
deliverance.  That  night  they  went  to  their  rest,  and 
in  the  morning  they  arose  and  departed,  to  their 
respective  })laces  of  abode,  and  Jack  to  the  knight's 
house. 

Jack  mounted  his  horse,  and  by  his  direction  he 
came  to  the  knight's  house,  where  he  was  received 
with  all  demonstrations  of  joy,  by  the  knight  and  his 
lady,  who,  in  respect  to  Jack,  prepared  a  feast  which 


CHILDKFA'S    SrOHII'.S.  ii^2r> 

lasted  for  many  days,  iinitiiii;-  all  tlic  <j,ciilr\  in  tlic 
adjacent  })arts.  He  ])rescnte(l  him  with  a  rin<;-  of  i^old 
in  which  was  engraven  by  curious  art,  the  ))icture  of 
the  Giant  draogino-  a  distressed  knioht  and  liis  fair 
lady  by  the  liair  of  tlie  head. 

Now^  there  were  five  aged  gentlemen  who  were 
fathers  to  some  of  those  miserable  captives  whom  Jack 
had  set  at  liberty  ;  who  innnediately  paid  him  tlieir 
venerable  respects.  And  the  smiling  bowl  was  passed 
round  in  honour  of  the  victorious  conqueror,  but  during 
their  mirth,  a  dark  cloud  appeared,  which  daunted  the 
assembly. 

A  messenger  brought  the  dismal  tidings  of  the  aj)- 
proach  of  one  Thunderfold,  a  huge  Oiant  with  two 
heads  ;  who,  having  heard  of  the  death  of  his  kinsmen, 
the  above-named  Giants,  was  come  in  search  of  Jack, 
to  be  revenged  on  him  for  their  terrible  downfall,  and 
was  within  a  mile  of  the  knight's  seat,  the  peojjle 
flying  before  him  from  their  habitations. 

When  they  had  related  this.  Jack  said,  "  Let  him 
come,  I  am  prepared  with  a  tool  to  ]:)ick  his  teeth,  and 
you,  gentlemen  and  ladies,  walk  forth  into  the  garden, 
and  you  shall  be  the  joyful  s})ectators  of  this  monstrous 
Giant's  death." 

To  which  they  consented,  wishing  him  good  fortune 
in  that  great  enterprise. 

The  situation  of  the  knight's  house  was  in  a  small 
island  encompassed  with  a  vast  moat  thirty  feet  deep, 
and  twenty  feet  wide,  over  which  lay  a  drawbridge. 
Wherefore  Jack  employed  two  men  to  cut  it  on  both 
sides,  and  then  dressing  himself  in  his  Coat  of  darkness, 
jnitting  on  his  Shoes  of  swiftness,  he  marched  against 
the  Giant,  with  his  Sword  of  sharpness  ready  drawn. 
When  he  came  close  up,  the  Giant  could  not  see  Jack, 


226  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

by  reason  of  his  invisible  Coat.      Nevertheless^,  he  was 
sensible  of  approaching  danger^  which  made  him  cry 

out  : — 

"  Fe,  Fi,  Fo,  Finn, 
I  smell  the  blood  of  an  Englishman. 
Be  he  living,  or  be  he  dead, 
r II  grind  his  bones  to  mix  my  bread." 

"■  Sayest  thou  so/'  quoth  Jack.  "^  Then  thou  art  a 
monstrous  miller.  But  how  if  I  serve  thee  as  I  did  the 
two  Giants  of  late^,  I  should  spoil  your  practice  for  the 
future  .^  " 

At  which  time  the  Giant  spoke  with  a  voice  as  loud 
as  thunder.  '^'  Art  thou  that  villain  which  destroyed 
my  kinsmen  ?  Then  I  will  tear  thee  with  my  teeth, 
and  suck  thy  bloody  I  will  grind  thy  bones  to  powder." 

"  Catch  me  first,"  quoth  Jack.  And  he  threw  off  his 
Coat  of  darkness  that  the  Giant  might  see  him,  and 
then  ran  from  him  as  through  fear. 

The  Giant,  with  glaring  eyes,  followed  after  like  a 
walking  castle,  making  the  earth  to  shake  at  every 
step.  Jack  led  him  a  dance  three  or  four  times  round 
the  moat,  that  the  ladies  and  gentlemen  might  take  a 
full  view  of  this  huge  monster  who  followed  him,  but 
could  not  overtake  him  by  reason  of  his  Shoes  of 
swiftness. 

At  length  Jack  took  over  the  bridge,  the  Giant  with 
full  speed  pursuing  after  him,  with  his  iron  club.  But 
coming  to  the  middle  of  the  drawbridge,  the  weight  of 
his  bod}^  and  the  most  dreadful  steps  which  he  took,  it 
broke  down,  and  he  tumbled  into  the  water,  where  he 
rolled  and  wallowed  like  a  whale. 

Jack  standing  at  the  side  of  the  moat  laughed  at  the 
Giant,  and  said,  "  You  would  grind  my  bones  to 
powder  ;  you  have  water,  pray,  where  is  your  mill  }  " 


CHILDRKN'S  STOUlllS.  '^27 

The  Giant  foaiiu-d  to  hear  hiin  scoffing-  at  that  rate, 
tlioii<;li  he  ]>hiii!Lj;e(l  from  place  to  j)laee  in  tlie  moat. 

Jack  at  length  i>()t  a  cart  rope,  and  cast  it  o\er  the 
Giant's  two  heads,  witl\  a  slip  knot,  and  hy  the  help  of 
horses  he  dra<j:<j,ed  liim  out  ajrain,  nearly  stran<i,led, 
before  he  would  let  him  loose.  He  cut  off"  both  liis 
heads  with  his  Sword  of  shar})ness,  in  the  view  of  all 
the  assembly  of  knights  and  ladies,  who  gave  a  shout 
when  they  saw  the  (jiant  dis])atched.  Then  before  he 
would  either  eat  or  drink,  he  sent  these  heads  also  to 
the  court  of  King  Arthur. 

After  some  mirth  and  ])astime,  Jack,  taking  leave  of 
the  noble  knights  and  ladies,  set  off  in  searcli  of  new 
adventures.  Through  many  woods  and  groves  he 
passed,  till  coming  to  the  foot  of  a  high  mountain  late 
at  night,  he  knocked  at  the  door  of  a  lonesome  house, 
at  which  a  man,  with  a  head  as  white  as  snow,  arose 
and  let  him  in. 

"  Father,"  said  Jack,  '•  have  you  any  entertainment 
for  a  benighted  traveller  that  has  lost  his  way  ?  " 

''  Yes,"  said  the  old  man,  "  if  thou  wilt  accejit  of  such 
as  my  poor  cottage  affords,  thou  shalt  be  welcome." 

Jack  returned  him  thanks  ;  they  sat  together,  and  the 
old  man  began  to  discourse  as  follows.  "  Son,  I  am 
sensible  thou  art  the  great  conqueror  of  Giants,  and  it 
is  in  thy  power  to  free  this  place  ;  for,  there  is  an 
enchanted  castle,  kept  by  a  monstrous  Giant,  named 
Galligantus,  who,  by  the  help  of  a  conjuror,  betrays 
knights  and  ladies  into  this  strong  castle,  where,  by 
magic  art,  they  are  transformed  into  sundry  sha})es  ; 
but  above  all,  I  lament  the  misfortune  of  a  Duke's 
daughter,  whom  they  fetched  from  her  father's  garden, 
carrying  her  through  the  air  in  a  cliariot  drawn  by 
fiery  dragons.      She  was  immediately  transformed  into 


228  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

the  shape  of  a  White  Hind.  Many  knights  have  en- 
deavoured to  break  the  enchantment  for  her  dehver- 
anee,  vet  none  could  accomplish  it,  by  reason  of  two 
(jriffins,  who  are  at  the  entrance  of  the  castle  gate, 
who  destroys  them  as  they  see  them  ;  but  you,  being 
furnished  with  an  invisible  Coat,  may  pass  them  un- 
discovered ;  where,  on  the  gates  of  the  castle,  you  will 
find  engraven  in  characters,  the  means  by  which  the 
enchantment  may  be  broken." 

Jack  gave  him  his  hand,  with  a  promise  that  in  the 
morning  he  would  break  the  enchantment,  and  free  the 
lady. 

Having  refreshed  themselves  with  a  morsel  of  meat, 
they  lay  down  to  rest.  In  the  morning  Jack  arose, 
and  put  on  his  invisible  Coat,  his  Cap  of  knowledge, 
and  Shoes  of  swiftness,  and  so  prepared  himself  for  the 
dangerous  enterprise. 

Now,  when  he  had  ascended  the  mountain,  he  dis- 
covered the  two  fiery  Griffins.  He  passed  between 
them,  for  they  could  not  see  him  by  reason  of  his 
invisible  Coat.  When  he  had  got  beyond  them,  he 
found  upon  the  gate  a  golden  trumpet,  hung  in  a  chain 
of  fine  silver,  under  which  were  engraven  : — 

Whoever  shall  this  trumpet  blow, 
Shall  soon  the  Giant  overthrow. 
And  break  the  blaek  enchantment  straight, 
So  all  shall  be  in  happy  state. 

Jack  had  no  sooner  read  this  inscription  than  he  blew 
the  trumpet,  at  which  the  foundation  of  the  castle 
trembled,  and  the  Giant,  with  the  Conjuror,  were 
tearing  their  hair,  knowing  their  wicked  reign  was  at 
an  end.  At  which  time  the  Giant  was  stooping  to 
take  up  his  club.  Jack,  by  one  blow  with  his  Sword  of 


CHILDRKN'S  SrORII'-S.  t>t>() 

sharpness,  cut  off  liis  licul.  'I'lu-  Conjuror  mounted 
into  the  air,  and  was  carried  away  by  a  wliirlwind. 

Thus  was  the  encliantnient  broken,  and  vvvry  kiii«ilil 
and  lady,  who  had  been  transformed  into  birds  and 
beasts,  returned  to  tlieir  ])roj)er  shapes,  and  the  castle, 
thou(]fh  it  seemed  to  be  of  vast  strength  and  bigness, 
vanished  away  like  a  cloud  ;  whereu])on  universal  joy 
appeared  among  the  released  knights  and  ladies. 
This  being  done,  the  head  of  Cialligantus  was  conveyed 
to  the  court  of  King  Arthur. 

The  next  day,  having  refreshed  the  knights  and 
ladies  at  the  old  man's  habitation.  Jack  set  forward  to 
the  court  of  King  Arthur,  with  those  kniglits  and 
ladies  whom  he  delivered. 

Coming  to  His  Majesty,  his  fame  rang  through  tlie 
court  ;  and,  as  a  reward  for  his  service,  the  Duke 
bestowed  his  daughter  in  marriage  to  Jack.  The  w^hole 
kingdom  was  filled  with  joy  at  the  wedding.  After 
which  the  King  bestowed  upon  him  a  noble  house, 
with  a  large  estate,  where  he  and  his  lady  passed  their 
davs  in  great  joy  and  happiness. 


LITTLE  RED  RIDING  HOOD. 

Once  upon  a  time  there  was  a  little  girl  who  lived  in 
a  village.  She  was  such  a  nice  little  girl  that  her 
grandmother  was  very  fond  of  her,  and  made  her  a 
little  red  cloak  with  a  hood.  So  everybody  called  her 
Little  Red  Riding  Hood. 

One  day  when  her  mother  was  baking,  she  said  :  "  I 
hear  your  poor  grandmother  is  ill  in  bed.  You  shall 
go  across  the  forest  and  see  how  she  is,  and  take  her 
this  cake  and  a  pot  of  butter." 


280  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

Little  Red  Riding  Hood  was  delighted  to  go,  though 
it  was  rather  a  long  walk.  So  she  took  the  basket 
with  the  cakes  and  butter  on  her  arm,  and  set  off. 

No  sooner  had  she  got  well  into  the  forest,  than  a 
wolf  came  by  that  road.  "  Good  morning,  Red  Riding 
Hood,"  said  the  wolf;  ''where  are  you  going  ?  " 

Now,  Red  Riding  Hood  did  not  know  that  it  is 
dangerous  to  stop  and  speak  to  wolves,  and  she  only 
thought  him  a  nice  respectable  wolf  who  knew 
manners.     So  she  made  a  curtsey,  and  said  : 

"  I'm  going  to  see  grandmother,  because  she's  ill  ; 
and  I  am  taking  her  a  cake  and  a  pot  of  butter." 

''Where  does  your  grandmother  live?"  asked  the 
wolf. 

"In  a  cottage  quite  by  itself,  across  the  forest,"  said 
Red  Riding  Hood. 

"  Well,  good  morning,"  said  the  wolf.  "  If  I  were 
you,  I  would  stop  for  a  while,  and  pick  some  wild 
flowers  to  make  a  posy  for  your  grandmother." 

Red  Riding  Hood  thought  this  would  please  her 
granny  very  much,  and  the  wolf  trotted  away. 

As  soon  as  he  was  out  of  her  sight,  he  galloped  away 
to  the  old  woman's  cottage,  and  knocked. 

"Who's  there  .^^ "  asked  the  old  woman,  in  a  feeble 
voice. 

"  Little  Red  Riding  Hood,"  said  the  wolf,  imitating 
a  little  girl's  voice.  "  Mother  has  sent  you  a  cake  and 
a  pot  of  butter." 

"  Lift  up  the  latch  and  walk  in,"  said  the  grand- 
mother ;  "  I'm  ill  in  bed,  and  can't  come  to  the  door." 

So  the  wolf  lifted  the  latch  and  sprang  in,  and 
gobbled  up  the  poor  old  grandmother  in  a  moment. 
Then  he  put  on  her  nightgown  and  nightcap,  got  into 
bed,  and  pulled  up  the  bedclothes. 


CHILDRKX'S  STORIKS.  ii.SI 

Presently  Red  Ridiiio-  H,„,(l  cainc  and  kncckcd  at 
tlie  door. 

"Who's  there?''  asked  llu  wolf,  iniitatiiiii,-  llie 
grandmother's  voiee. 

"  Little  Red  Riding-  Hood.  Mother  has  sent  yon  a 
cake  and  a  pot  of  butter." 

'^'^  Lift  u})  the  lateh  and  walk  in,"  said  the  wolf,  and 
Red  Riding  Hood  entered. 

The  wolf  had  got  down  so  far  under  the  bedelothes 
that  nothing  of  him  could  be  seen  but  the  to})  of  his 
nightcap. 

"  How  hoarse  you  are,  Ciranny  !  "  said  Red  Riding 
Hood. 

"^That's  because  Lve  got  such  a  bad  cold,  u\\  dear," 
said  the  wolf.  "^  It's  getting  late,  so  you  must  undress 
and  come  to  bed." 

When  Red  Riding  Hood  got  into  bed,  she  saw  the 
wolf's  ears  sticking  out  from  under  the  nightcap. 
"  What  great  ears  you've  got,  Granny  !  "  she  said. 

"  All  the  better  to  hear  with,  my  dear  !  "  said  the 
wolf. 

"'  And  what  great  arms  you've  got,  Granny  !  " 

'^  All  the  better  to  hug  with,  my  dear  !  " 

"  But,  Granny,  what  great  eyes  you've  got !  " 

"  All  the  better  to  see  with,  my  dear  !  " 

"  But,  Granny,  what  great  teeth  you've  got !  "  said 
Red  Riding  Hood,"  who  began  to  feel  frightened. 

"^AU  the  better  to  eat  you,  my  dear  !  "  shouted  the 
Avolf.  And  the  wicked  beast  jumped  up,  and  ate  her 
all  up  at  a  mouthful. 

As  it  got  dusk,  Red  Riding  Hood's  mother  began  to 
get  very  anxious  because  she  had  not  come  back,  for  as 
she  had  never  thought  Red  Riding  Hood  would  sto]) 
and  pick   flowers  in  the  forest,  she   had  expected  her 


-i.S!2  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

liome  bv  sunset,  and  had  said  nothing  about  her 
stopi^ing  at  her  grandmother's  for  the  night.  So  when 
lier  husband  came  home,  she  said  : 

''  I'm  afraid  something  has  happened  to  Red  Riding 
Hood.  I  sent  her  to  her  grandmother  s  this  morning, 
and  she  has  never  come  back.  You  must  go  and  look 
for  her  ;  and  take  your  lantern  and  your  axe,  for  fear 
of  wolves."  So  Red  Riding  Hood's  father  took  his 
lantern  and  axe,  and  asked  a  friend  to  go  with  him 
across  the  forest. 

When  thev  got  to  the  grandmother's  cottage,  it  was 
quite  dark.      They  knocked,  and  the  wolf  called  out : 

"  Lift  up  the  latch  and  walk  in,"  for  he  thought  he 
would  make  another  meal  off  whoever  it  was.  But 
w^hen  he  saw  the  two  men  enter,  one  with  the  axe  and 
the  other  with  the  lantern,  he  began  to  feel  horribly 
uncomfortable,  especially  as  he  could  not  run  away 
quickly,  because  he  was  so  fat  from  eating  the  grand- 
mother and  Red  Riding  Hood.  Red  Riding  Hood's 
father  saw  in  a  minute  what  had  happened,  and  he 
flung  his  axe  at  the  wolf  and  cut  him  open.  Immedi- 
ately the  grandmother  and  Red  Riding  Hood  jumped 
out  of  the  wolf's  inside,  and  the  wolf  made  straight  up 
the  chimney. 

"  I  think  we've  got  him  now,"  said  Red  Riding 
Hood's  father ;  "  make  up  the  fire.  Granny,  and  we'll 
])ut  on  the  big  porridge-pot  full  of  hot  water,  and  some 
savoury  soup  in  it  to  smell  nice." 

So  they  made  up  the  fire,  and  put  on  the  great  pot, 
full  of  hot  water,  and  then  they  poured  some  soup  into 
it ;  and  when  it  boiled,  the  savoury  smell  went  up 
the  chimney. 

"Aughrr!"  said  the  wolf;  ''how  nice  that  smells; 
I  feel  quite  hungry  again." 


CHIIJ)RK\'S  STOUIKS.  ^2:',:i 

So  he  })ut  his  head  and  forele^fs  into  the  cliinnuy  as 
he  stood  on  the  roof,  and,  as  he  bent  further  in  to  catch 
the  smell,  all  of  a  sudden  he  lost  his  balance,  and  tell 
headlono-  down  tlie  chimney,  and  into  the  ^reat  pot, 
and  was  killed. 

So  they  all  went  home  safely,  and  wjien  Red  Ridin<;- 
Hood's  mother  })ut  her  to  bed,  she  said,  "  Never  you 
stop  when  you're  out  to  talk  to  stranjre  ereatures  ever 
any  more."  And  Red  Riding  Hood,  who  was  only  too 
glad  to  have  got  safely  out  of  the  wolf's  inside, 
promised  faithfully  that  she  never  would. 


CINDERELLA ; 

OR, 

THE  LITTLE  GLASS  SLIPPER. 

There  was  once  a  very  rich  gentleman  who  lost  his 
wife  ;  and  having  loved  her  exceedingly,  he  was  very 
sorry  wdien  she  died.  Finding  himself  quite  unhappy 
for  her  loss,  he  resolved  to  marry  a  second  time,  think- 
ing by  this  means  he  should  be  as  happy  as  before. 
Unfortunately,  however,  the  lady  he  chanced  to  fix 
upon  was  the  proudest  and  most  haughty  woman  ever 
known  ;  she  was  always  out  of  humour  with  every  one  ; 
nobody  could  please  her,  and  she  returned  the  civilities 
of  those  about  her  with  the  most  affronting  disdain. 
She  had  two  daughters  by  a  former  husband,  whom 
she  brought  up  to  be  proud  and  idle  :  indeed,  in  temj^er 
and  behaviour  they  perfectly  resembled  their  mother ; 
they  did  not  love  their  books,  and  would  not  learn  to 
work  ;  in  short,  they  were  disliked  by  everybody. 

i6 


234  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

The  gentleman  on  his  side^  too^  had  a  daughter^  who, 
in  sweetness  of  temper  and  carriage^,  was  the  exact 
Hkeness  of  her  own  mother,  whose  death  he  had  so 
much  lamented,  and  whose  tender  care  of  the  little  girl 
he  was  in  hopes  to  see  replaced  by  that  of  his  new  bride. 

But  scarcely  was  the  marriage  ceremony  over,  before 
his  wife  began  to  show  her  real  temper  ;  she  could  not 
bear  the  pretty  little  girl,  because  her  sweet  obliging 
manners  made  those  of  her  ow^i  daughters  appear  a 
thousand  times  the  more  odious  and  disagreeable. 

She  therefore  ordered  her  to  live  in  the  kitchen  ; 
and,  if  ever  she  brought  anything  into  the  parlour, 
always  scolded  her  till  she  was  out  of  sight.  She 
made  her  work  with  the  servants,  in  washing  the 
dishes,  and  rubbing  the  tables  and  chairs  :  it  was  her 
place  to  clean  madam's  chamber,  and  that  of  the  misses, 
her  daughters,  which  was  all  inlaid,  had  beds  of  the 
newest  fashion,  and  looking-glasses  so  long  and  broad, 
that  they  saw  themselves  from  head  to  foot  in  them  ; 
while  the  little  creature  herself  was  forced  to  sleep  up 
in  a  sorry  garret,  upon  a  wretched  straw  bed,  without 
curtains,  or  anything  to  make  her  comfortable. 

The  poor  child  bore  all  this  with  the  greatest 
patience,  not  daring  to  complain  to  her  father,  who, 
she  feared,  would  only  reprove  her,  for  she  saw  that 
his  wife  governed  him  entirely.  When  she  had  done 
all  her  work  she  used  to  sit  in  the  chimney  corner 
among  the  cinders  ;  so  that  in  the  house  she  went  by 
the  name  of  Cinderbreech  :  the  youngest  of  the  two 
sisters,  however,  being  rather  more  civil  than  the 
eldest,  called  her  Cinderella.  And  Cinderella,  dirty 
and  ragged  as  she  was,  as  often  happens  in  such  cases, 
was  a  thousand  times  prettier  than  her  sisters,  drest 
out  in  all  their  splendour. 


CHILDREN'S    STORIES.  285 

It  happened  that  tlie  kind's  son  ^ave  a  hall,  to  which 
he  invited  all  the  persons  of  fashion  in  tlie  country  : 
our  two  misses  were  of  the  niunher  ;  for  the  king's  son 
did  not  know  how  disagreeable  they  were  ;  hut  suj)- 
posed,  as  they  were  so  much  indulged,  that  they  were 
extremely  amiable.  He  did  not  invite  Cinderella,  for 
he  had  never  seen  or  heard  of  her. 

The  two  sisters  began  immediately  to  be  very  busy 
in  preparing  for  the  happy  day  :  nothing  could  exceed 
their  joy  ;  every  moment  of  their  time  was  spent  in 
fancying  such  gowns,  shoes,  and  head-dresses  as  would 
set  them  off  to  the  greatest  advantage.  All  this  was 
new  vexation  to  poor  Cinderella,  for  it  was  she  who 
ironed  and  plaited  her  sisters'  muslins.  They  talked  of 
nothing  but  how  they  should  be  dressed, 

"  I,"  said  the  eldest,  "  will  m  ear  my  scarlet  velvet 
with  French  trimming." 

"And  I,"  said  the  youngest,  "^  shall  wear  the  same 
petticoat  I  had  made  for  the  last  ball  ;  but  then,  to 
make  amends  for  that,  I  shall  put  on  my  gold  muslin 
train,  and  wear  my  diamonds  in  my  hair  ;  with  these  I 
must  certainly  look  well." 

They  sent  several  miles  for  the  best  hairdresser  that 
was  to  he  had,  and  all  their  ornaments  were  bought  at 
the  most  fashionable  shops. 

On  the  morning  of  the  ball  they  called  up  Cinderella 
to  consult  with  her  about  their  dress,  for  they  knew 
she  had  a  great  deal  of  taste.  Cinderella  gave  them 
the  best  advice  she  could,  and  even  offered  to  assist 
them  in  adjusting  their  head-dresses  ;  which  was 
exactly  w^hat  they  wanted,  and  they  accordingly 
accepted  her  proposals. 

While  Cinderella  was  busily  engaged  in  dressing  her 
sisters,  they  said  to  her,  "  Should  you  not  like,  Cinder- 
ella, to  go  to  the  ball  }  " 


os6  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

"Ah/'  replied  Cinderella,  "you  are  only  laughing  at 
me ;  it  is  not  for  such  as  I  am  to  think  of  going  to  balls." 

"You  are  in  the  right/'  said  they;  "folks  might 
laugh  indeed  to  see  a  Cinderbreech  dancing  in  a  ball- 
room." 

Any  other  than  Cinderella  would  have  tried  to  make 
the  haughty  creatures  look  as  ugly  as  she  could  ;  but 
the  sweet-tempered  girl,  on  the  contrary,  did  every 
thing  she  could  think  of  to  make  them  look  well. 

The  sisters  had  scarcely  eaten  anything  for  two  days, 
so  great  was  their  joy  as  the  happy  day  drew  near. 
More  than  a  dozen  laces  were  broken  in  endeavouring 
to  give  them  a  fine  slender  shape,  and  they  were  always 
before  the  looking-glass. 

At  length  the  much-wished-for  moment  arrived ;  the 
proud  misses  stepped  into  a  beautiful  carriage,  and, 
followed  by  servants  in  rich  liveries,  drove  towards  the 
palace.  Cinderella  followed  them  with  her  eyes  as  far 
as  she  could ;  and  when  they  were  out  of  sight,  she  sat 
down  in  a  corner  and  began  to  cry. 

Her  godmother,  who  saw  her  in  tears,  asked  what 
ailed  her. 

"  I  wish — I  w-i-s-h,"  sobbed  poor  Cinderella,  without 
being  able  to  say  another  word. 

The  godmother,  who  was  a  fairy,  said  to  her,  "  You 
wish  to  go  to  the  ball,  Cinderella ;  is  not  this  the 
truth  ? " 

"  Alas !  yes/'  replied  the  poor  child,  sobbing  still 
more  than  before. 

"  Well,  well,  be  a  good  girl/'  said  the  godmother, 
■"^  and  you  shall  go." 

She  then  led  Cinderella  to  her  bed-chamber,  and 
said  to  her,  "  Run  into  the  garden  and  bring  me  a 
pumpion." 


CHILDREN'S    STORIKS.  ti'A7 

Cinderella  flew  like  liohtnino-,  and  l)n)ii<2,lit  the  finest 
she  could  lay  hold  of.  Her  godmother  scooped  out  the 
inside,  leavin<>-  nothing  but  the  rind  ;  she  then  struck 
it  with  her  wand,  and  the  pumpion  instantly  became  a 
fine  coach  gilded  all  over  with  gold.  She  next  lo(»ked 
into  her  mouse-trap,  where  she  found  six  mice  all  ali\e 
and  brisk.  She  told  Cinderella  to  lift  uj)  the  door  of 
the  trap  very  gently  ;  and  as  the  mice  j)assed  out,  she 
touched  them  one  by  one  with  her  wand,  and  each 
immediately  became  a  beautiful  horse  of  a  fine  da])])le 
grey  mouse-colour. 

"  Here,  my  child,"  said  the  godmother,  "  is  a  coach 
and  horse,  too,  as  handsome  as  your  sisters  ;  but  what 
shall  we  do  for  a  })ostilion  ?  " 

'^  I  will  run,"  re])lied  Cinderella,  "and  see  if  there 
be  not  a  rat  in  the  rat-traj).  If  I  find  one,  he  will  do 
very  w^ell  for  a  j)ostilion." 

*^'^  Well  thought  of,  my  child  !  "  said  her  godmother; 
"make  what  haste  you  can." 

Cinderella  brought  the  rat-trap,  which  to  her  great 
joy,  contained  three  of  the  largest  rats  ever  seen. 
The  fairy  chose  the  one  which  had  the  longest  beard, 
and  touching  him  with  her  wand,  he  w^as  instantly 
turned  into  a  smart,  handsome  })ostilion,  with  the  finest 
pair  of  whiskers  imaginable. 

She  next  said  to  Cinderella,  "  Go  again  into  the 
garden,  and  you  will  find  six  lizards  behind  the 
watering-pot  ;    bring  them  hither." 

This  was  no  sooner  done,  than,  with  a  stroke  from 
the  fairy's  wand,  they  were  changed  into  six  footmen, 
who  all  immediately  jumped  up  behind  the  coach  in 
gold-laced  liveries,  and  stood  side  by  side  as  cleverly  as 
if  they  had  been  used  to  nothing  else  the  whole  of 
their  lives. 


238  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

The  fairy  then  said  to  Cinderella,  "  Well,  my  dear, 
is  not  this  such  an  equipage  as  you  could  wish  for  to 
take  you  to  the  ball  ?     Are  you  not  delighted  with  it  ?  " 

"  Y-e-s/'  replied  Cinderella,  with  hesitation  ;  "  but 
must  I  go  thither  in  these  filthy  rags  ?  " 

Her  godmother  touched  her  with  the  wand,  and  her 
rags  instantly  became  the  most  magnificent  apparel, 
ornamented  with  the  most  costly  jewels  in  the  whole 
world.  To  these  she  added  a  beautiful  pair  of  glass 
slippers,  and  bade  her  set  out  for  the  palace. 

The  fairy,  how^ever,  before  she  took  leave  of  Cinder- 
ella, strictly  charged  her  on  no  account  whatever  to 
stay  at  the  ball  after  the  clock  had  struck  twelve  ; 
telling  her  that,  should  she  stay  but  a  single  moment 
after  that  time,  her  coach  would  again  become  a  pum- 
pion,  her  horses  mice,  her  footmen  lizards,  and  her  fine 
clothes  be  changed  to  filthy  rags. 

Cinderella  did  not  fail  to  promise  all  her  godmother 
desired  of  her  ;  and,  almost  wild  with  joy,  drove  away 
to  the  palace. 

As  soon  as  she  arrived,  the  king's  son,  who  had  been 
informed  that  a  great  princess  whom  nobody  knew^ 
was  come  to  the  ball,  presented  himself  at  the  door  of 
the  carriage,  helped  her  out,  and  conducted  her  to  the 
ball-room. 

Cinderella  no  sooner  apjjeared  than  every  one  was 
silent ;  both  the  dancing  and  the  music  stopped,  and 
everybody  was  employed  in  gazing  at  the  uncommon 
beauty  of  this  unknown  stranger  :  nothing  was  heard 
but  whispers  of  "  How  handsome  she  is  !  "  The  king 
himself,  old  as  he  was,  could  not  keep  his  eyes  from 
her,  and  continually  repeated  to  the  queen,  that  it  was 
a  long  time  since  he  had  seen  so  lovely  a  creature. 
The  ladies  endeavoured  to   find   out   how   her  clothes 


CHILDREN'S    STORIES.  2.S9 

were  made,  tliat  tlu-y  iniolit  <;et  some  of  the  same 
pattern  for  themselves  by  tlie  next  day,  slioiild  they  l)e 
lueky  enough  to  meet  with  sueh  handsome  materials, 
and  such  good  workjieople  to  make  them. 

The  king's  son  conducted  her  to  the  most  honourabk- 
seat,  and  soon  after  took  her  out  to  dance  with  him. 
She  both  moved  and  danced  so  gracefully,  that  every 
one  admired  her  still  more  than  before,  and  she  was 
thought  the  most  beautiful  and  accomplished  lady  ever 
beheld. 

After  some  time  a  delicious  collation  was  served  uj)  ; 
but  the  young  prince  was  so  busily  employed  in  looking 
at  her,  that  he  did  not  eat  a  morsel. 

Cinderella  seated  herself  near  her  sisters,  paid  them 
a  thousand  attentions,  and  offered  them  a  part  of  the 
oranges  and  sweetmeats  with  which  the  prince  had 
presented  her  ;  while  they  on  their  part  were  quite 
astonished  at  these  civilities  from  a  lady  whom  they 
did  not  know. 

As  they  were  conversing  together,  Cinderella  heard 
the  clock  strike  eleven  and  three  quarters  :  she  rose 
from  her  seat,  curtsied  to  the  company,  and  hastened 
away  as  fast  as  she  could. 

As  soon  as  she  got  home  she  flew  to  her  godmother, 
and,  after  thanking  her  a  thousand  times,  told  her  she 
would  give  the  world  to  be  able  to  go  again  to  the  ball 
the  next  day,  for  the  king's  son  had  entreated  her  to 
be  there. 

While  she  was  telling  her  godmother  everything 
that  had  happened  to  her  at  the  ball,  the  two  sisters 
knocked  a  loud  rat-tat-tat  at  the  door,  which  Cinderella 
opened. 

"  How  late  you  have  stayed  I  "  said  she,  yawning, 
rubbing    her    eyes,    and    stretching    herself  as    if  just 


240  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

awaked  out  of  her  sleep,  though  she  had  in  truth  felt 
no  desire  to  sleep  since  they  left  her. 

"  If  you  had  been  at  the  ball/'  said  one  of  the  sisters, 
"  let  me  tell  you,  you  would  not  have  been  sleepy : 
there  came  thither  the  handsomest,  yes,  the  very 
handsomest  princess  ever  beheld  !  She  paid  us  a 
thousand  attentions,  and  made  us  take  a  part  of  the 
oranges  and  sweetmeats  the  prince  had  given  her." 

Cinderella  could  scarcely  contain  herself  for  joy  : 
she  asked  her  sisters  the  name  of  the  princess :  to 
which  they  replied,  that  nobody  had  been  able  to  dis- 
cover who  she  w^as  ;  that  the  king's  son  was  extremely 
grieved  on  that  account,  and  had  offered  a  large  reward 
to  any  person  who  could  find  out  where  she  came  from. 

Cinderella  smiled,  and  said,  "^  How  very  beautiful 
she  must  be  !  How  fortunate  you  are  !  Ah,  could  I 
but  see  her  for  a  single  moment !  Dear  Miss  Charlotte, 
lend  me  only  the  yellow  gown  you  wear  every  day, 
and  let  me  go  and  see  her." 

"  Oh,  yes,  I  w^arrant  you ;  lend  my  clothes  to  a 
Cinderbreech  !  Do  you  really  suppose  me  such  a  fool  } 
No,  no  ;  pray,  Miss  Forward,  mind  your  proj^er  busi- 
ness, and  leave  dress  and  balls  to  your  betters." 

Cinderella  expected  some  such  answer,  and  was  by 
no  means  sorry,  for  she  would  have  been  sadly  at  a 
loss  what  to  do  if  her  sister  had  lent  her  the  clothes 
that  she  asked  of  her. 

The  next  day  the  two  sisters  again  appeared  at  the 
ball,  and  so  did  Cinderella,  but  dressed  much  more 
magnificently  than  the  night  before.  The  king  s  son 
was  continually  by  her  side,  and  said  the  most  obliging 
things  to  her  imaginable. 

The  charming  young  creature  was  far  from  being 
tired  of  all  the  agreeable  things  she  met  with  :  on  the 


CHILDREN'S   STOIUKS.  i>il 

contrary,  slie  was  so  (k-li^htcd  with  tlitui,  that  slic 
entirely  foro-ot  tlie  cliaroe  lu-r  <'()(hn()tht"r  liad  <;iven 
her. 

Cinderella  at  last  heard  the  striking),-  of  a  clock,  and 
counted  one,  two,  three,  on  till  she  came  to  twelve, 
though  she  had  thought  that  it  could  be  but  eleven  at 
most.  She  i>;ot  uj)  and  Hew  as  nimbly  as  a  deer  out  of 
the  ball-room. 

The  prince  tried  to  overtake  her  ;  but  Cinderella's 
fright  made  her  run  the  faster.  However,  in  her  great 
liurry,  she  dro})})ed  one  of  the  little  glass  slip})ers  from 
her  foot,  which  the  })rince  stooped  down  and  ])icked  uj), 
and  took  the  greatest  care  of  it  possible. 

Cinderella  got  home  tired  and  out  of  breath,  in  her 
dirty  old  clothes,  without  either  coach  or  footman,  and 
having  nothing  left  of  her  magnificence  but  the  fellow^ 
of  the  glass  slipper  w^hich  she  had  dropped. 

In  the  meanwhile,  the  prince  had  enquired  of  all  his 
guards  at  the  palace  gates,  if  they  had  not  seen  a 
magnificent  princess  pass  out,  and  which  way  she 
went } 

The  guards  replied  that  no  })rincess  had  ])assed  the 
gates  ;  and  that  they  had  not  seen  a  creature  but  a 
little  ragged  girl,  who  looked  more  like  a  beggar  than 
a  princess. 

When  the  two  sisters  returned  from  the  ball,  Cinder- 
ella asked  them  if  they  had  been  as  much  amused  as 
the  night  before,  and  if  the  beautiful  princess  had  been 
there  r  They  told  her  that  she  had  ;  but  that  as  soon 
as  the  clock  struck  twelve  she  hurried  away  from  the 
ball-room,  and  in  the  great  haste  she  made,  had  dropped 
one  of  her  glass  sli})})ers,  which  was  the  prettiest  shape 
that  could  be  ;  that  the  king's  son  had  picked  it  up, 
and  had  done  nothing  but  looked  at  it  all  the  rest  of 


242  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

the  evening;  and  that  everybody  believed  he  was 
violently  in  love  with  the  handsome  lady  to  whom  it 
belonged. 

This  was  very  true  ;  for  a  few  days  after,  the  prince 
had  it  proclaimed  by  sound  of  trumpet,  that  he  would 
marry  the  lady  whose  foot  should  exactly  fit  the 
slipper  he  had  found. 

Accordingly  the  prince's  messengers  took  the  slipper, 
and  carried  it  first  to  all  the  princesses  ;  then  to  the 
duchesses  :  in  short,  to  all  the  ladies  of  the  court — but 
without  success. 

They  then  brought  it  to  the  two  sisters,  who  each 
tried  all  she  could  to  squeeze  her  foot  into  the  slipper, 
but  saw  at  last  that  this  was  quite  impossible. 

Cinderella,  who  was  looking  at  them  all  the  while, 
and  knew  her  slipper,  could  not  help  smiling,  and 
ventured  to  say,  "  Pray,  sir,  let  me  try  to  get  on  the 
slipper." 

Her  sisters  burst  out  a-laughing  in  the  rudest  manner 
possible: — "Very  likely,  truly,"  said  one  of  them, 
'^'^that  such  a  clumsy  foot  as  your's  should  fit  the  slipper 
of  a  beautiful  princess." 

The  gentleman,  however,  who  brought  the  slipper, 
turned  round,  looked  at  Cinderella,  and  observing  that 
she  was  very  handsome,  said,  that  as  he  was  ordered 
by  the  prince  to  try  it  on  every  one  till  it  fitted,  it  Avas 
just  that  Cinderella  should  have  her  turn. 

Saying  this,  he  made  her  sit  down  :  and  putting  the 
slipper  to  her  foot,  it  instanth'  slipped  in,  and  he  saw 
that  it  fitted  her  like  wax. 

The  two  sisters  were  amazed  to  see  that  the  slipper 
fitted  Cinderella :  but  how  much  greater  was  their 
astonishment,  when  she  drew  out  of  her  pocket  the 
other  slipper  and  put  it  on  ! 


CHILDREN'S    STORIKS.  ti43 

Just  at  this  moim-nt  the  fairy  entcrrd  the  room,  and 
touching-  Cinderella's  clothes  with  her  wand,  made  iier 
all  at  once  a])})ear  more  nia<i;nificently  dressed  than  they 
had  seen  her  before. 

The  two  sisters  immediately  perceived  that  she  was 
the  beautiful  princess  they  had  seen  at  the  ball. 
They  threw  themselves  at  her  feet^  and  asked  her  for- 
giveness for  the  ill  treatment  she  had  received  from 
them.  Cinderella  helped  them  to  rise,  and,  tenderly 
embracino-  them,  said  that  she  forgave  them  with  all 
her  heart,  and  begged  them  to  bestow  upon  her  their 
affection. 

Cinderella  was  then  conducted,  drest  as  she  was,  to 
the  young  prince,  w^ho  finding  her  more  beautiful  than 
ever,  instantly  desired  her  to  accept  of  his  hand. 

The  marriage  ceremony  took  {)lace  in  a  few  days  ; 
and  Cinderella,  wiio  was  as  amiable  as  she  w^as  hand- 
some, gave  her  sisters  magnificent  apartments  in  the 
palace,  and  a  short  time  after  married  them  to  tw^o 
great  lords  of  the  court. 


PUSS    IN   BOOTS. 

There  was  a  miller  who  had  three  sons,  and  when  he 
died  he  divided  what  he  possessed  among  them  in  the 
following  manner  : — He  gave  his  mill  to  the  eldest,  his 
ass  to  the  second,  and  his  cat  to  the  youngest. 

Each  of  the  brothers  accordingly  took  w^hat  belonged 
to  him  without  the  help  of  an  attorney,  who  would 
soon  have  brought  their  little  fortune  to  nothing  in 
law  expenses. 

The  poor  young  fellow  who  had  nothing  but  the  cat 
complained  that  he  was  hardly  used  : — 


244  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

"  My  brothers,"  said  he,  "  by  joining  their  stocks  to- 
gether, may  do  very  well  in  the  world  ;  as  for  me, 
when  I  have  eaten  my  cat,  and  made  a  fur-cap  of  his 
skin,  I  may  soon  die  of  hunger  !  " 

The  cat,  w^hich  all  this  time  sat  listening  just  inside 
the  door  of  a  cupboard,  now  ventured  to  oome  out,  and 
addressed  him  as  follows  : — 

''  Do  not  thus  afflict  yourself,  my  good  master ;  you 
have  only  to  give  me  a  bag,  and  get  a  pair  of  boots 
made  for  me,  so  that  I  may  scamper  through  the  dirt 
and  the  brambles,  and  you  shall  see  that  you  are  not 
so  ill  provided  for  as  you  imagine." 

Though  the  cat's  master  did  not  much  depend  upon 
these  promises,  yet  as  he  had  often  observed  the 
cunning  tricks  Puss  used  to  catch  rats  and  mice,  such 
as  hanging  by  the  hindlegs,  and  hiding  in  the  meal  to 
make  them  believe  that  he  was  dead,  he  did  not 
entirely  despair  of  his  being  of  some  use  to  him  in  his 
unhappy  condition. 

When  the  cat  had  obtained  what  he  asked  for,  he 
gaily  began  to  equip  himself ;  he  drew  on  the  boots — 
and  putting  the  bag  about  his  neck,  he  took  hold  of 
the  strings  with  his  forepaws,  and,  bidding  his  master 
take  courage,  immediately  sallied  forth. 

The  fir«t  attempt  Puss  made  was  to  go  into  a  w^arren, 
in  which  there  was  a  great  number  of  rabbits.  He  put 
some  bran  and  some  parsley  into  his  bag  ;  and  then, 
stretching  himself  out  at  full  length  as  if  he  was  dead, 
he  waited  for  some  young  rabbits  (which  as  yet  knew 
nothing  of  the  cunning  tricks  of  the  w^orld)  to  come 
and  get  into  the  bag,  the  better  to  feast  upon  the 
dainties  he  had  put  into  it. 

Scarcely  had  he  laid  down  before  he  succeeded  as 
well  as  could  be  wished.     A  giddy  young  rabbit  crept 


CHILDREN'S    STOUIKS.  245 

into  tlie  ba*;-,  and  the  cat  innncdiatclv  drew  the  striii<rs, 
and  killed  him  witiioiit  mercy. 

Puss,  proud  of  his  ])rey,  hastened  directly  to  the 
])alace,  where  he  asked  to  sj)eak  to  the  kin^-.  On  l)ein<r 
shown  into  the  apartment  of  his  majesty,  he  made  a 
low  how,  and  said — "^  I  have  brought  you,  sire,  this 
rabbit  from  the  warren  of  my  lord  the  Marquis  of 
Carabas,  who  connnanded  me  to  present  it  to  your 
majesty  with  the  assurance  of  his  respect."  This  was 
the  title  the  cat  thou<i:;ht  })ro])er  to  bestow  ujion  his 
master. 

"  Tell  my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas,"  replied  the  king, 
"  that  I  accept  of  his  present  with  pleasure,  and  that  I 
am  greatly  obliged  to  him." 

Soon  after  the  cat  laid  himself  down  in  the  same 
manner  in  a  field  of  corn,  and  had  as  much  good 
fortune  as  before  ;  for  two  fine  partridges  got  into  his 
bag,  which  he  immediately  killed  and  carried  to  the 
palace.  The  king  received  them  as  he  had  done  the 
rabbit,  and  ordered  his  servants  to  give  the  messenger 
something  to  drink.  In  this  manner  he  continued  to 
carry  presents  of  game  to  the  king  from  my  lord 
Marquis  of  Carabas,  once  at  least  every  week. 

One  day,  the  cat  having  heard  that  the  king  intended 
to  take  a  ride  that  morning  by  the  river  side  with  his 
daughter,  wdio  was  the  most  beautiful  j)rincess  in  the 
w  orld,  he  said  to  his  master,  "  If  you  will  but  follow 
my  advice  your  fortune  is  made.  Take  off  your 
clothes,  and  bathe  yourself  in  the  river,  just  in  the 
place  I  shall  show  you,  and  leave  the  rest  to  me." 

The  Marquis  of  Carabas  did  exactly  as  he  was 
desired,  without  being  able  to  guess  what  the  cat 
intended.  While  he  was  bathing,  the  king  passed  by, 
and  Puss  directly  called  out  as  loud  as  he  could  bawl 


246  CHILDREN'S    STORIES. 

"  Help  !  help  !  my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas  is  in  danger 
of  being  drowned  !  " 

The  king  hearing  the  cries,  put  his  head  out  at  the 
window  of  his  carriage  to  see  what  was  the  matter  ; 
when,  perceiving  the  very  cat  which  had  brought  him  so 
many  presents,  he  ordered  his  attendants  to  go  directly 
to  the  assistance  of  my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas. 

While  they  were  employed  in  taking  the  Marquis 
out  of  the  river,  the  cat  ran  to  the  king's  carriage  and 
told  his  majesty,  that  while  his  master  was  bathing, 
some  thieves  had  run  off  with  his  clothes  as  they  lay 
bv  the  river  side,  the  cunning  cat  all  the  time  having 
hid  them  under  a  large  stone. 

The  king  hearing  this,  commanded  the  officers  of  his 
wardrobe  to  fetch  one  of  the  handsomest  suits  it  con- 
tained, and  present  it  to  my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas, 
at  the  same  time  loading  him  with  a  thousand  atten- 
tions. As  the  fine  clothes  they  brought  him  made  him 
look  like  a  gentleman,  and  set  off  his  person,  which  was 
very  comely,  to  the  greatest  advantage,  the  king's 
daughter  w^as  mightily  taken  with  his  appearance,  and 
the  Marquis  of  Carabas  had  no  sooner  cast  upon  her 
two  or  three  respectful  glances,  than  she  became 
violently  in  love  with  him. 

The  king  insisted  on  his  getting  into  the  carriage, 
and  taking  a  ride  with  them.  The  cat,  enchanted  to 
see  how  well  his  scheme  was  likely  to  succeed,  ran 
before  to  a  meadow  that  was  reaping,  and  said  to  the 
reapers,  "  Good  people,  if  you  do  not  tell  the  king, 
who  will  soon  pass  this  way,  that  the  meadow  you  are 
reaping  belongs  to  my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas,  you 
.shall  be  chopped  as  small  as  minced  meat." 

The  king  did  not  fail  to  ask  the  reapers  to  whom  the 
meadow  belonged,  "  To  my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas," 


CHlLDRIvX'S    STORIKS.  ii47 

said  they  all  at  once;  tor  the  tlircats  of  the  cit  had 
terribly  fri<;htened  them. 

"  Voii  have  liere  a  vc-ry  fine  j)ieee  of  land,  my  lord 
Marquis/'  said  the  king-. 

"Truly,  sire,"  replied  he,  "it  does  not  fail  to  l)rin<>- 
me  every  year  a  ])leiitiful  harvest." 

The  eat,  whieh  still  went  on  before,  now  eame  to  a 
field  where  some  other  labourers  were  makin<^  sheaves 
of  the  eorn  they  had  reaped,  to  whom  he  said  as  before, 
"  Good  people,  if  you  do  not  tell  the  king,  who  will 
})resently  pass  this  way,  that  the  corn  you  have  reaped 
in  this  field  belongs  to  my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas, 
you  shall  be  chopped  as  small  as  minced  meat." 

The  king  accordingly  passed  a  moment  after,  and 
incjuired  to  whom  the  corn  he  saw  belonged,  "  To  my 
lord  Marquis  of  Carabas,"  answered  they  very  glibly  ; 
upon  whieh  the  king  again  complimented  the  Marquis 
on  his  noble  possessions. 

The  cat  still  continued  to  go  before,  and  gave  the 
same  charge  to  all  the  people  he  met  with  ;  so  that  the 
king  was  greatly  astonished  at  the  splendid  fortune  of 
my  lord  Marquis  of  Carabas. 

Puss  at  length  arrived  at  a  stately  castle,  whieh  be- 
longed to  an  Ogre,  the  richest  ever  known  ;  for  all  the 
lands  the  king  had  passed  through  and  admired  were 
his.  The  cat  took  care  to  learn  every  particular  about 
the  Ogre,  and  what  he  could  do,  and  then  asked  to 
sj)eak  with  him,  saying,  as  he  entered  the  room  in 
which  he  was,  that  he  could  not  pass  so  near  his  castle 
without  doing  himself  the  honour  to  enquire  for  his 
health. 

The  Ogre  received  him  as  civilly  as  an  Ogre  could  do, 
and  desired  him  to  be  seated. 

"  I   have   been   informed,"  said   the   cat,  "  that  you 


248  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

have  the  gift  of  changing  yourself  into  all  sorts  of 
animals,  into  a  lion,  or  an  elephant,  for  example." 

"  It  is  very  true,"  replied  the  Ogre  somewhat  sternly; 
'^and  to  convince  you,  I  will  directly  take  the  form  of 
a  lion." 

The  cat  was  so  much  terrified  at  finding  himself  so 
near  a  lion,  that  he  sprang  from  him,  and  climbed  to 
the  roof  of  the  house  ;  but  not  without  much  difficulty, 
as  his  boots  were  not  very  fit  to  walk  upon  the  tiles. 

Some  minutes  after,  the  cat  perceiving  that  the  Ogre 
had  quitted  the  form  of  a  lion,  ventured  to  come  down 
from  the  tiles,  and  owned  that  he  had  been  a  good  deal 
frightened. 

"  I  have  been  further  informed,"  continued  the  cat, 
^'  but  I  know  not  how  to  believe  it,  that  you  have  the 
power  of  taking  the  form  of  the  smallest  animals  also  ; 
for  example,  of  changing  yourself  to  a  rat  or  a  mouse  ; 
I  confess  I  should  think  this  must  be  impossible." 

"  Impossible  !  you  shall  see  ; "  and  at  the  same 
instant  he  changed  himself  into  a  mouse,  and  began  to 
frisk  about  the  room. 

The  cat  no  sooner  set  his  eyes  upon  the  Ogre  in 
this  form,  than  he  sprang  upon  him,  and  devoured  him 
in  an  instant. 

In  the  meantime  the  king,  admiring,  as  he  came  near 
it,  the  magnificent  castle  of  the  Ogre,  ordered  his 
attendant  to  drive  up  to  the  gates,  as  he  wished  to 
take  a  nearer  view  of  it.  The  cat,  hearing  the  noise  of 
the  carriage  on  the  drawbridge,  immediately  came  out, 
saying,  "  Your  majesty  is  welcome  to  the  castle  of  my 
lord  Marquis  of  Carabas." 

"And  is  this  splendid  castle  your's  also,  my  lord 
Marquis  of  Carabas }  I  never  saw  anything  more 
stately  than  the   building,  or  more  beautiful  than  the 


CHILDHI'A'S   STOHIKS.  ^M) 

park  and  pleasuro-grouiuls  around  it  ;  no  douht,  tlic 
castle  is  no  less  ma<»;nificent  within  than  without;  pray, 
my  lord  Marquis,  indulge  me  with  a  sight  of  it.  " 

The  Marquis  gave  his  hand  to  the  young  princess  as 
she  alighted,  and  followed  the  king,  who  went  before  ; 
they  entered  a  s])acious  hall,  where  they  found  a  s))lcn- 
did  collation  which  the  Ogre  had  ))re])ared  for  some 
friends  he  had  expected  that  day  to  visit  liim  ;  l)ut 
who,  hearing  that  the  king  with  the  ])rincess  and  a 
great  gentleman  of  the  court  were  within  had  not 
dared  to  enter. 

The  king  was  so  much  charmed  with  the  amiable 
qualities  and  noble  fortune  of  the  Marquis  of  Carabas, 
and  the  young  princess  too  had  fallen  so  violently  in 
love  with  him,  that  when  the  king  had  partaken  of  the 
collation,  and  drank  a  few  glasses  of  wine,  he  said  to 
the  Marquis,  "  It  will  be  your  own  fault,  my  lord 
Marquis  of  Carabas,  if  you  do  not  soon  become  my 
son-in-law." 

The  Marquis  received  the  intelligence  with  a  thousand 
respectful  acknowledgments,  accepted  the  honour  con- 
ferred upon  him,  and  married  the  princess  that  very 
day. 

The  cat  became  a  great  lord,  and  never  again  ran 
after  rats  and  mice  but  for  his  amusement. 


WHITTINGTON   AND    HIS   CAT. 

In  the  reign  of  the  famous  King  Edward  the  Third, 
there  was  a  little  boy  called  Dick  Whittington,  whose 
father  and  mother  died  when  he  was  very  young,  so 
that  he  remembered  nothing  at  all  about  them,  and 
was   left   a   dirty  little   fellow  running  about  a  country 

17 


250  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

village.  As  poor  Dick  was  not  old  enough  to  work,  he 
was  in  a  sorry  plight ;  he  got  but  little  for  his  dinner, 
and  sometimes  nothing  at  all  for  his  breakfast ;  for  the 
people  who  lived  in  the  village  were  very  poor  them- 
selves, and  could  spare  him  little  more  than  the  parings 
of  potatoes,  and  now  and  then  a  hard  crust. 

For  all  this,  Dick  Whittington  was  a  very  sharp  boy, 
and  was  always  listening  to  what  every  one  talked 
about. 

On  Sundays  he  never  failed  to  get  near  the  farmers, 
as  they  sat  talking  on  the  tombstones  in  the  church- 
yard, before  the  parson  was  come  :  and  once  a  week 
you  might  be  sure  to  see  little  Dick  leaning  against  the 
sign-post  of  the  village  ale-house,  where  people  stopped 
to  drink  as  they  came  from  the  next  market-town  ;  and 
whenever  the  barber's  shop-door  was  open,  Dick  listened 
to  all  the  news  he  told  his  customers. 

In  this  manner,  Dick  heard  of  the  great  city  called 
London  ;  how  the  people  who  lived  there  were  all  fine 
gentlemen  and  ladies  ;  that  there  were  singing  and 
music  in  it  all  day  long ;  and  that  the  streets  were 
paved  all  over  with  gold. 

One  day  a  waggoner,  with  a  large  waggon  and  eight 
horses,  all  with  bells  at  their  heads,  drove  through  the 
village  while  Dick  was  lounging  near  his  favourite  sign- 
post. The  thought  immediately  struck  him  that  it 
must  be  going  to  the  fine  town  of  London  ;  and  taking 
courage,  he  asked  the  waggoner  to  let  him  walk  by  the 
side  of  the  waggon.  The  man,  hearing  fi'om  poor  Dick 
that  he  had  no  parents,  and  seeing  by  his  ragged  condi- 
tion that  he  could  not  be  worse  off,  told  him  he  might 
go  if  he  would  ;  so  they  set  off  together. 

Dick  got  safe  to  London ;  and  so  eager  was  he  to  see 
the  fine  streets  paved  all  over  with  gold,  that  he  ran  as 


CHILDRKX'S   SrOini'.S.  251 

fast  as  his  legs  would  carry  him  througli  s(\  (  ral  streets, 
expecting  every  moment  to  come  to  those  that  were  all 
paved  witli  gold  ;  for  Dick  had  three  times  seen  a 
guinea  in  his  own  village,  and  observed  what  a  great 
deal  of  money  it  brought  in  change  ;  so  he  imagined  he 
had  only  to  take  up  some  little  bits  of  the  pavement  to 
have  as  much  money  as  he  desired. 

Poor  Dick  ran  till  he  was  tired,  and  at  last,  finding  it 
grow  dark,  and  that  whichever  way  he  turned  he  saw 
nothing  but  dirt  instead  of  gold,  he  sat  down  in  a  dark 
corner,  and  cried  himself  asleep. 

Little  Dick  remained  all  night  in  the  streets  ;  and 
next  morning,  finding  himself  very  hungry,  he  got  up 
and  walked  about,  asking  those  he  met  to  give  him  a 
halfpenny  to  keep  him  from  starving ;  but  nobody 
stayed  to  answer  him,  and  only  two  or  three  gave  him 
anything ;  so  that  the  poor  boy  was  soon  in  the  most 
miserable  condition.  Being  almost  starved  to  death, 
he  laid  himself  down  at  the  door  of  one  Mr.  Fitzwarren, 
a  great  rich  merchant.  Here  he  was  soon  perceived  by 
the  cook-maid,  who  was  an  ill-tempered  creature,  and 
happened  just  then  to  be  very  busy  dressing  dinner  for 
her  master  and  mistress  :  so,  seeing  poor  Dick,  she 
called  out,  "  What  business  have  you  here,  you  lazy 
rogue  ?  There  is  nothing  else  but  beggars  ;  if  you  do 
not  take  yourself  away,  we  will  see  how  you  will  like  a 
sousing  of  some  dish-water,  I  have  here  that  is  hot 
enough  to  make  you  caper  !  " 

Just  at  this  time  Mr.  Fitzwarren  himself  came  home 
from  the  city  to  dinner,  and  seeing  a  dirty  ragged  boy 
lying  at  the  door,  said  to  him,  "  Why  do  you  lie  there, 
my  lad  ?  You  seem  old  enough  to  work.  I  fear  you 
must  be  somewhat  idle." 


i>oi2  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

"  No,  indeed,  sir,"  says  Whittington,  "  that  is  not 
true,  for  I  would  work  with  all  my  hearty  but  I  know 
nobody,  and  I  believe  I  am  very  sick  for  want  of  food." 

"  Poor  fellow  I  "  answered  Mr.  Fitzwarren. 

Dick  now  tried  to  rise,  but  was  obliged  to  lie  down 
again,  being  too  weak  to  stand  ;  for  he  had  not  eaten 
anything  for  three  days^  and  was  no  longer  able  to  run 
about  and  beg  a  halfpenny  of  people  in  the  streets  : 
so  the  kind  merchant  ordered  that  he  should  be  taken 
into  his  house,  and  have  a  good  dinner  immediately, 
and  that  he  should  be  kept  to  do  M'hat  dirty  work  he 
was  able  for  the  cook. 

Little  Dick  w^ould  have  lived  very  happily  in  this 
worthy  family,  had  it  not  been  for  the  crabbed  cook, 
who  was  finding  fault  and  scolding  at  him  from  morn- 
ing till  night ;  and  was  withal  so  fond  of  roasting  and 
basting,  that,  when  the  spit  was  out  of  her  hands,  she 
would  be  at  basting  poor  Dick's  head  and  shoulders 
with  a  broom,  or  anything  else  that  happened  to  fall 
in  her  way  ;  till  at  last  her  ill  usage  of  him  was  told  to 
Miss  Alice,  Mr.  Fi  zwarren's  daughter,  w^ho  asked  the 
ill-tempered  creature  if  she  was  not  ashamed  to  use  a 
little  friendless  boy  so  cruelly  ;  and  added,  she  would 
certainly  be  turned  away  if  she  did  not  treat  him  with 
more  kindness. 

But  though  the  cook  was  so  ill-tempered,  Mr.  Fitz- 
warren's  footman  was  quite  the  contrary ;  he  had  lived 
in  the  family  many  years,  was  rather  elderly,  and  had 
once  a  little  boy  of  his  own,  who  died  when  about  the 
age  of  Whittington  ;  so  he  could  not  but  feel  compassion 
for  the  poor  boy. 

As  the  footman  was  very  fond  of  reading,  he  used 
generally  in  the  evening  to  entertain  his  fellow-servants, 
when  they  had  done  their  w^ork,  Avith  some  amusing 


chim)Ri-:n's  sroRii'.s.  ii5s 

book.  The  pleasure  our  little  hero  took  in  hcariii^i; 
him  made  him  very  much  desire  to  learn  to  read  too; 
so  the  next  time  the  good-natured  footman  gave  hiiu  a 
lialfpenny,  he  bought  a  horn-book  witli  it ;  and,  \\  itii  a 
little  of  his  help,  Dick  soon  learned  his  letters,  and 
afterwards  to  read. 

About  this  time  Miss  Alice  was  going  out  one 
morning  for  a  walk  ;  and  the  footman  ha{)})ening  to  be 
out  of  the  way,  little  Dick,  who  had  received  from 
Mr.  Fitzwarren  a  neat  suit  of  clothes,  to  go  to  church 
on  Sundays,  was  ordered  to  })ut  them  on,  and  walk 
behind  her.  As  they  walked  along.  Miss  Alice,  seeing 
a  j)oor  woman  with  a  child  in  her  arms,  and  another 
at  her  back,  pulled  out  her  purse,  and  gave  her  some 
money  ;  and  as  she  was  putting  it  again  into  her 
pocket,  she  dropped  it  on  the  ground,  and  walked  on. 
Luckily  Dick,  who  was  behind,  saw  what  she  had  done, 
picked  it  up,  and  immediately  presented  it  to  her. 

Besides  the  ill-humour  of  the  cook,  which  now,  how- 
ever, was  somewhat  mended,  Whittington  had  another 
hardship  to  get  over.  This  was,  that  his  bed,  which 
was  of  flock,  "was  placed  in  a  garret,  where  there  were 
so  many  holes  in  the  floor  and  walls,  that  he  never 
went  to  bed  without  being  awakened  in  his  sleep  by 
great  numbers  of  rats  and  mice,  which  generalh'  ran 
over  his  face,  and  made  such  a  noise,  that  he  sometimes 
thought  the  walls  were  tumbling  down  about  him. 

One  day  a  gentleman  who  paid  a  visit  to  Mr.  Fitz- 
warren, happened  to  have  dirtied  his  shoes,  and  begged 
they  might  be  cleaned.  Dick  took  great  })ains  to  make 
them  shine,  and  the  gentleman  gave  him  a  penny. 
This  he  resolved  to  lay  out  in  buying  a  cat,  if  })ossible  ; 
and  the  next  day,  seeing  a  little  girl  with  a  cat  under 
her  arm,  he  went  up  to  her,  and  asked  if  she  would  let 


254  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

him  have  it  for  a  penny ;  to  which  the  girl  repUed,  she 
would  with  all  her  heart,  for  her  mother  had  more  cats 
than  she  could  maintain  ;  adding,  that  the  one  she  had 
was  an  excellent  mouser. 

This  cat  Whittington  hid  in  the  garret,  always  taking 
care  to  carry  her  a  })art  of  his  dinner  :  and  in  a  short 
time  he  had  no  further  disturbance  from  the  rats  and 
mice,  but  slept  as  sound  as  a  top. 

Soon  after  this,  the  merchant,  who  had  a  ship  ready 
to  sail,  richly  laden,  and  thinking  it  but  just  that  all 
his  servants  should  have  some  chance  for  good  luck  as 
well  as  himself,  called  them  into  the  parlour,  and  asked 
them  what  commodity  they  chose  to  send. 

All  mentioned  something  they  were  willing  to 
venture  but  poor  Whittington,  who,  having  no  money 
nor  goods,  could  send  nothing  at  all,  for  which  reason 
he  did  not  come  in  with  the  rest ;  but  Miss  Alice, 
guessing  what  was  the  matter,  ordered  him  to  be  called, 
and  offered  to  lay  down  some  money  for  him  from  her 
own  purse  ;  but  this,  the  merchant  observed,  would  not 
do,  for  it  must  be  something  of  his  own. 

Upon  this,  poor  Dick  said  he  had  nothing  but  a  cat, 
which  he  bought  for  a  penny  that  was  given  him. 

"Fetch  thy  cat,  boy,"  says  Mr.  Fitzwarren,  '^and  let 
her  go." 

Whittington  brought  poor  puss,  and  delivered  her  to 
the  captain  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  for  he  said  "He 
should  now  again  be  kept  awake  all  night  by  the  rats 
and  mice." 

All  the  company  laughed  at  the  oddity  of  Whitting- 
ton's  adventure,  and  Miss  Alice,  who  felt  the  greatest 
pity  for  the  poor  boy,  gave  him  some  halfpence  to  buy 
another  cat. 


CHILDRFA'S    STOHilvS.  ^25r, 

This,  and  several  other  marks  of  kindness  shown  hini 
by  Miss  AHce^  made  the  ill-tempered  cook  so  jealous  oi' 
the  favours  the  poor  boy  reeeived,  that  she  be<;an  to  use 
liim  more  eruelly  than  ever,  and  eonstantly  madr  oamc 
of  him  for  sendin<^  his  eat  to  sea,  askin<;-  him  if  lie 
thought  it  would  sell  for  as  nuieh  money  as  would  hiiv 
a  halter. 

At  last,  the  unhappy  Httle  feUow,  l)ein<;-  unable  to 
bear  this  treatment  any  longer,  determined  to  run  away 
from  his  plaee.  He  aeeordingly  })aeked  uj)  the  few 
things  that  belonged  to  him.  and  set  out  very  early  in 
the  morning  on  Allhallow  Day,  which  is  the  first  of 
November.  He  travelled  as  far  as  HoUoway,  and  there 
sat  down  on  a  stone,  which  to  this  day  is  called  Whit- 
tington's  Stone,  and  began  to  consider  what  course  he 
should  take. 

While  he  was  thus  thinking  what  he  could  do,  Bow- 
Bells,  of  which  there  were  then  only  six,  began  to  ring: 
and  it  seemed  to  him  that  their  sounds  addressed  him 
in  this  manner : 

"  Turn  again  Whittingtoii, 
Lord  Mayor  of  London." 

"  Lord  Mayor  of  London !  "  says  he  to  himself. 
"  Why,  to  be  sure,  I  would  bear  anything  to  be  Lord 
Mayor  of  London,  and  ride  in  a  fine  coach  I  Well,  I 
will  go  back,  and  think  nothing  of  all  the  cuffing  and 
scolding  of  old  Cicely,  if  I  am  at  last  to  be  Lord  Mayor 
of  London." 

So  back  went  Dick,  and  got  into  the  house,  and  set 
about  his  business  before  Cicely  came  down  stairs. 

The  ship,  with  the  cat  on  board,  was  long  beaten 
about  at  sea,  and  was  at  last  driven  by  contrary  winds 
on  a  part  of  the  coast  of  Barbary,  inhabited  by  Moors 
that  were  unknown  to  the  English. 


or,6  childri:n's  stories^. 

The  natives  in  this  country  came  in  great  numbers, 
out  of  curiosity,  to  see  the  people  on  board,  who  were 
all  of  so  different  a  colour  from  themselves,  and  treated 
them  with  great  civility  ;  and,  as  they  became  better 
acquainted,  showed  marks  of  eagerness  to  purchase  the 
fine  things  with  which  the  ship  was  laden. 

The  captain,  seeing  this,  sent  patterns  of  the  choicest 
articles  he  had  to  the  king  of  the  country,  who  was  so 
nuich  pleased  with  them,  that  he  sent  for  the  captain 
and  his  chief  mate  to  the  palace.  Here  they  were 
])laced,  as  is  the  custom  of  the  country,  on  rich  carpets 
flowered  with  gold  and  silver  :  and  the  king  and  queen 
being  seated  at  the  upper  end  of  the  room,  dinner  was 
brought  in,  which  consisted  of  the  greatest  rarities. 
No  sooner,  however,  were  the  dishes  set  before  the 
company,  than  an  amazing  number  of  rats  and  mice 
rushed  in,  and  helped  themselves  plentifully  from  every 
dish,  scattering  pieces  of  flesh  and  gravy  all  about  the 
room. 

The  captain,  extremely  astonished,  asked  if  these 
vermin  were  not  very  offensive. 

"  Oh,  yes,"  said  they,  "  very  offensive  ;  and  the  king 
would  give  half  his  treasure  to  be  free  of  them  :  for 
they  not  only  destroy  his  dinner,  but  they  disturb  him 
even  in  his  chamber,  so  that  he  is  obliged  to  be  watched 
while  he  sleeps." 

The  captain,  who  was  ready  to  jump  for  joy,  re- 
membering poor  Whittington's  hard  case,  and  the  cat 
he  had  intrusted  to  his  care,  told  him  he  had  a  creature 
on  board  his  ship  that  would  kill  them  all. 

The  king  was  still  more  overjoyed  than  the  captain. 
''  Bring  this  creature  to  me,"  says  he,  ''  and  if  she  can 
really  perform  what  you  say,  I  will  load  your  ship  with 
wedges  of  gold  in  exchange  for  her." 


CHILDRKN'S    STORIlvS.  2.57 

Away  i\c\v  the  ca})taiii,  wliilc  aiiotlu-r  (liiiiui-  was 
providing,  to  the  ship,  and  taking  j)ii.s.s  under  liis  arm, 
returned  to  the  j)alaee  in  time  to  see  the  table  (•()\c'red 
witli  rats  and  mice,  and  the  seeond  dinner  in  a  fair  way 
to  meet  with  the  same  fate  as  the  first. 

The  cat,  at  sight  of  them,  did  not  Mait  for  hichhng, 
but  sprang  from  the  ea])tain's  arms,  and  in  a  few 
moments  laid  the  greater  ])art  of  the  rats  and  mice 
dead  at  her  feet,  while  the  rest,  in  the  greatest  fright 
imaginable,  scampered  awav  to  their  holes. 

The  king  having  seen  and  considered  of  the  wonder- 
ful ex})loits  of  Mrs,  Puss,  and  being  informed  she  would 
soon  have  young  ones,  which  might  in  time  destroy  all 
the  rats  and  mice  in  the  country,  bargained  with  the 
captain  for  his  whole  ship's  cargo,  and  afterwards  agreed 
to  give  a  ])rodigious  quantity  of  wedges  of  gold,  of  still 
greater  value,  for  the  cat  ;  with  which,  after  taking 
leave  of  their  majesties,  and  other  great  personages 
belonging  to  the  court,  he,  with  all  his  ship's  company, 
set  sail,  w^ith  a  fair  wind  for  England,  and,  after  a 
happy  voyage,  arrived  safely  in  the  port  of  London. 

One  morning,  Mr.  Fitzwarren  had  just  entered  his 
counting-house,  and  w'as  going  to  seat  himself  at  the 
desk,  wdien  w^ho  should  arrive  but  the  captain  and  the 
mate  of  the  merchant-ship,  the  Unicorn,  just  arrived 
from  the  coast  of  Barbary,  and  followed  by  several  men, 
bringing  with  them  a  prodigious  quantity  of  wedges 
of  gold  that  had  been  paid  by  the  King  of  Barbary 
in  exchange  for  the  merchandise,  and  also  in  exchange 
for  Mrs.  Puss.  Mr.  Fitzwarren,  the  instant  he  heard 
the  news,  ordered  W  hittington  to  be  called,  and  having 
desired  him  to  be  seated,  said,  "  Mr.  Whittington.  most 
heartily  do  I  rejoice  in  the  news  these  gentlemen  have 
brought  you  ;  for  the  captain  has  sold  your  cat  to  the 


t>58  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

King-  t)f  Barbary,  and  brought  you  in  return  more 
riches  than  I  possess  in  the  whole  world  ;  and  may  you 
long  enjoy  them." 

Mr.  Fitzwarren  then  desired  the  men  to  open  the 
innnense  treasures  they  had  brought,  and  added  that 
Mr.  Whittington  had  now  nothing  to  do  but  to  put  it 
in  some  place  of  safety. 

Poor  Dick  could  scarce  contain  himself  for  joy. 
He  begged  his  master  to  take  what  part  of  it  he 
pleased,  since  to  his  kindness  he  was  indebted  for  the 
whole. 

"  No,  no  ;  this  wealth  is  all  your  own,  and  justly  so," 
answered  Mr.  Fitzwarren  ;  ''  and  I  have  no  doubt  you 
will  use  it  generously." 

Whittington,  however,  was  too  kind-hearted  to  keej)  all 
for  himself;  and,  accordingly,  made  a  handsome  present 
to  the  captain,  the  mate,  and  every  one  of  the  ship's 
company,  and  afterwards  to  his  excellent  friend  the 
footman,  and  the  rest  of  Mr.  Fitzwarren's  servants,  not 
even  excepting  crabbed  old  Cicely. 

After  this,  Mr.  Fitzwarren  advised  him  to  send  for 
tradespeople,  and  get  himself  dressed  as  became  a 
gentleman  ;  and  made  him  the  offer  of  his  house  to  live 
in,  till  he  could  provide  himself  with  a  better. 

When  Mr.  Whittington 's  face  was  washed,  his  hair 
curled,  his  hat  cocked,  and  he  was  dressed  in  a  fashion- 
able suit  of  clothes,  he  appeared  as  handsome  and 
genteel  as  any  young  man  who  visited  at  Mr.  Fitz- 
warren's ;  so  that  Miss  Alice,  who  had  formerly  thought 
of  him  with  compassion,  now  considered  him  as  fit  to 
be  her  lover  ;  and  the  more  so,  no  doubt,  because  Mr. 
Whittington  was  constantly  thinking  what  he  could  do 
to  oblige  her,  and  making  her  the  prettiest  presents 
imaginable. 


CHILDHKN'S  ST()Hli:S.  ii.",y 

Mr.  FitzwaiTon,  privtivino-  tlieir  aff'oction  for  eacli 
other,  ])roposed  to  imitc  tliein  in  marriaoe,  to  which, 
without  difficulty,  they  each  consented  ;  and  accordin^ily 
a  day  for  tlie  weddini>-  was  soon  fixed,  and  they  were 
attended  to  churcli  by  the  lord  mayor,  the  com-t  of 
aldermen,  the  sheriffs,  and  a  _<;reat  number  of  the 
w  ealthiest  merchants  in  London  ;  and  the  ceremony 
was  succeeded  by  a  most  ele<ijant  entertainment  and 
s])lendid  ball. 

History  tells  us  that  the  said  Mr.  Whittin<rton  and 
his  lady  lived  in  great  splendour,  and  were  very  happy  ; 
that  they  had  several  children  ;  that  he  was  sheriff  of 
London  in  the  year  1 340,  and  several  times  afterwards 
Lord  Mayor  ;  that  in  the  last  year  of  his  mayoralty  he 
entertained  King-  Henry  the  Fifth,  on  his  return  from 
the  battle  of  Agincourt.  And  some  time  afterwards, 
going  with  an  address  from  tlie  city  on  one  of  His 
Majesty's  victories,  he  received  the  honour  of  knight- 
hood. 

Sir  Richard  Whittington  constantly  fed  great  num- 
bers of  the  poor ;  he  built  a  church  and  college  to  it, 
with  a  yearly  allowance  to  poor  scholars_,  and  near  it 
erected  an  hospital. 

The  effigy  of  Sir  Richard  Whittington  was  to  be 
seen,  with  his  cat  in  his  arms,  carved  in  stone,  over  the 
archway  of  the  late  prison  of  Newgate,  that  went 
across  Newgate  Street. 


BEAUTY    AND    THE    BEAST. 

A  few  centuries  ago  lived  a  very  wealthy  merchant, 
who  had  three  sons  and  three  daughters.  The  educa- 
tion he  gave  them  was  of  the  most  superior  kind.     The 


260  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

"•iris  were  all  handsome  ;  but  the  youngest  was  styled 
the  Little  Beauty,  and  hence  she  was,  when  grown  up, 
called  by  the  name  of  Beauti/,  which  made  her  sisters 
jealous,— who  were  proud  of  their  riches,  kept  only  the 
grandest  company,  and  laughed  at  their  youngest 
sister,  whose  study  was  to  improve  her  mind.  They 
would  only  marry  to  a  duke  or  an  earl,  while  Beauty 
declined  every  offer,  thinking  herself  too  young  to  be 
removed  from  her  father's  house. 

All  at  once  the  merchant  lost  his  whole  fortune^ 
excepting  a  small  country  house  at  a  great  distance 
from  town,  and  told  his  children,  with  tears  in  his 
eyes,  they  must  go  there  and  work  for  their  living. 
The  two  eldest  answered  that  they  had  lovers,  who, 
they  were  sure,  would  be  glad  to  have  them,  though 
they  had  no  fortune  ;  but  in  this  they  were  mistaken, 
for  their  lovers  slighted  and  forsook  them  in  their- 
poverty.  As  they  were  not  beloved,  on  account  of 
their  pride,  everybody  said,  "  They  do  not  deserve  to  be 
]Htied  ;  we  are  glad  to  see  their  pride  humbled  ;  let 
them  go  and  give  themselves  quality  airs  in  milking  the 
cows  and  minding  the  dairy.  But,"  added  they,  "  we 
are  extremely  concerned  for  Beauty  ;  she  was  such  a 
charming,  sweet-tempered  creature,  spoke  so  kindly  to 
poor  people,  and  was  of  such  an  affable,  obliging  dis- 
position." Nay,  several  gentlemen  would  have  married 
her,  though  they  knew  she  had  not  a  penny,  but  she 
told  them  she  could  not  think  of  leaving  her  poor  father 
in  his  misfortunes,  but  was  determined  to  go  along  with 
him  into  the  country  to  comfort  and  attend  him.  Poor 
Beauty  at  first  was  sadly  grieved  at  the  loss  of  her 
fortune  ;  "  But,"  said  she  to  herself,  "  were  I  to  cry 
ever  so  much,  as  that  would  not  make  things  better,  I 
must  try  to  make  myself  happy  without  a    fortune." 


CHIM)HI-;\'S   S'I'ORII.S.  '■261 

When  they  came  to  their  eountry  house,  tlic  iiuicli.int 
and  his  three  sons  aj)phe(l  themselves  to  luishandn  and 
tillage,  and  Beauty  rose  at  four  in  the  moi-ninii',  and 
made  haste  to  have  the  house  clean,  and  l)reakl"ast 
ready  for  the  family.  In  the  l)e<j;innin<>;  she  found  it 
very  diffieult,  for  she  had  not  heen  used  to  work  as  a 
serv^ant,  but  in  less  than  two  montlis  she  <>rew  stron<>(r 
and  healthier  than  ever.  After  she  had  done  her  work, 
she  read,  ])]ayed  on  the  harpsie[iord,  or  else  san<;-  whilst 
she  spun.  On  the  contrary,  her  two  sisters  did  not 
know  how  to  s])end  their  time  ;  they  got  u])  at  ten,  and 
did  nothing  but  saunter  about  the  whole  time,  lament- 
ing the  loss  of  their  tine  clothes  and  acquaintance. 

'■'  Do  but  see  our  younger  sister,"  said  one  to  the 
other,  ''  what  a  })oor,  stu}nd,  mean-spirited  creature  she 
is,  to  be  contented  with  such  an  unhappy  situation." 

The  good  merchant  w^as  of  quite  a  different  opinion  ; 
he  knew  very  well  that  Beauty  outshone  her  sisters  in 
her  })erson  as  well  as  her  mind,  and  admired  her 
humility,  industry,  and  patience,  for  her  sisters  not 
only  left  her  all  the  work  of  the  house  to  do,  but 
insulted  her  every  moment. 

The  family  had  lived  about  a  year  in  this  retirement, 
when  the  merchant  received  a  letter  with  an  account 
that  a  vessel,  on  board  of  which  he  had  effects,  had 
safely  arrived.  This  news  had  liked  to  have  turned  the 
heads  of  the  tw^o  eldest  daughters,  who  immediately 
flattered  themselves  with  the  hope  of  returning  to 
town,  for  they  were  quite  weary  of  a  coinitrv  life, 
and  when  they  saw  their  father  ready  to  set  out,  they 
begged  of  him  to  buy  them  new  gowns,  caps,  rings,  and 
all  manner  of  trifles  ;  but  Beauty  asked  for  nothing,  for 
she  thought  to  herself  that  all  the  money  her  father  was 


262  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

going  to  receive  would  scarce  be  sufficient  to  purchase 
everything  her  sisters  wanted. 

"  What  will  you  have,  Beauty  ?  "  said  her  father. 

"  Since  you  are  so  good  as  to  think  of  me/'  answered 
Beauty,  "  be  so  kind  as  to  bring  me  a  rose  ;  for  as  none 
grow  hereabouts,  they  are  a  kind  of  rarity." 

Not  that  Beauty  cared  for  a  rose,  but  she  asked  for 
something  lest  she  should  seem  by  her  example  to  con- 
demn her  sisters'  conduct,  who  would  have  said  she  did 
it  only  to  look  particular.  The  good  man  went  on  his 
journey  ;  but  when  he  arrived  there  they  went  to  law 
with  him  about  the  merchandise,  and  after  a  great  deal 
of  trouble  and  pains  to  no  purpose,  he  came  back  as 
poor  as  before. 

He  was  within  thirty  miles  of  his  own  house,  think- 
ing of  the  pleasure  he  should  have  in  seeing  his 
children  again,  when,  going  through  a  large  forest,  he 
lost  himself  It  rained  and  snowed  terribly  ;  besides, 
the  wind  was  so  high  that  it  threw  him  twice  off  his 
horse  ;  and  night  coming  on,  he  began  to  apprehend 
being  either  starved  to  death  with  cold  and  hunger,  or 
else  devoured  by  the  wolves,  whom  he  heard  howling 
all  around  him,  when,  on  a  sudden,  looking  through  a 
long  walk  of  trees,  he  saw  a  light  at  some  distance, 
and  going  on  a  little  farther,  perceived  it  came  from  a 
palace  illuminated  from  top  to  bottom.  The  merchant 
returned  God  thanks  for  this  happy  discovery,  and 
hastened  to  the  palace,  but  was  greatly  surprised  at  not 
meeting  with  any  one  in  the  out-courts.  His  horse 
followed  him,  and  seeing  a  large  stable  open  went  in, 
and  finding  both  hay  and  oats,  the  poor  beast,  who  was 
almost  famished,  fell  to  eating  very  heartily.  The 
merchant  tied  him  up  to  the  manger  and  walked 
towards  the  house,  where  he  saw  no  one  ;  but  entering 


CHILDRKXS   STOIUKS.  2f).S 

into  a  larof  hall  he  toimd  a  ^ood  fire,  and  a  table 
plentifully  set  out,  but  with  one  cover  laid.  As  he  was 
(juite  wet  through  with  the  rain  and  the  snow,  he  drew 
near  the  fire  to  dry  himself.  "  I  hoj)e,"  said  he,  "  the 
master  of  the  house,  or  his  servants,  will  excuse  the 
liberty  I  take.  I  suppose  it  will  not  be  long  before 
some  of  them  api)ear." 

He  waited  a  considerable  time,  till  it  struck  eleven 
o'clock^  and  still  nobody  came;  at  last  he  was  so 
hungry  that  he  could  stay  no  longer,  but  took  a 
chicken  and  ate  it  in  two  mouthfuls,  trembling  all  the 
while.  After  this  he  drank  a  few  glasses  of  wine,  and 
growing  more  courageous,  he  went  out  of  the  hall,  and 
crossed  through  several  grand  apartments,  with  magni- 
ficent furniture,  till  he  came  into  a  chamber,  which  had 
an  exceeding  good  bed  in  it,  and,  as  he  was  very  nuich 
fatigued,  and  it  w^as  past  midnight,  he  concluded  it  was 
best  to  shut  the  door  and  go  to  bed.  It  was  ten  the 
next  morning  before  the  merchant  w^aked,  and  as  he 
was  going  to  rise,  he  was  astonished  to  see  a  good  suit 
of  clothes  in  the  room  of  his  own,  which  were  quite 
spoiled.  "  Certainly,"  said  he,  "  this  i)alace  belongs  to 
some  kind  fairy,  who  has  seen  and  pitied  my  distresses." 
He  looked  through  a  window,  but  instead  of  snow,  saw 
the  most  delightful  arbours,  interwoven  with  the  most 
beautiful  flowers  that  ever  w^ere  beheld.  He  then  re- 
turned to  the  great  hall,  where  he  had  supped  the  night 
before,  and  found  some  chocolate  ready  made  on  a  little 
table.  "  Thank  you,  good  Madam  Fairy,"  said  he  aloud, 
"  for  being  so  careful  as  to  provide  me  a  breakfast.  I 
am  extremely  obliged  to  you  for  all  your  favours." 

The  good  man  drank  his  chocolate,  and  then  went  to 
look  for  his  horse  ;  but  passing  through  an  arbour  of 
roses,  he    remembered    Beauty's   request  to  him,   and 


t>64  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

gathered  a  branch  on  wliicli  were  several  ;  mimediately 
lie  heard  a  great  noise,  and  saw  such  a  frightful  beast 
coming  towards  him  that  he  was  ready  to  faint  away. 

"  You  are  very  ungrateful,"  said  the  Beast  to  him  in 
a  terrible  voice.  "  I  have  saved  your  life  by  receiving 
vou  into  my  castle,  and  in  return  you  steal  my  roses, 
which  I  value  beyond  anything  in  the  universe  ;  but 
3'ou  shall  die  for  it.  I  give  you  but  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  prepare  yourself,  and  to  say  your  prayers." 

The  merchant  fell  on  his  knees,  and  lifted  up  both 
his  hands.  "  My  Lord,"  said  he,  "  I  beseech  you  to 
forgive  me;  indeed,  I  had  no  intention  to  offend  in 
gathering  a  rose  for  one  of  my  daughters,  who  desired 
me  to  bring  her  one." 

"My  name  is  not  My  Lord,"  replied  the  monster, 
''  but  Beast.  I  don't  like  compliments,  not  I  ;  I  like 
people  to  speak  as  they  think  ;  and  so  do  not  imagine  I 
am  to  be  moved  by  any  of  your  flattering  speeches. 
But  you  say  you  have  got  daughters.  I  will  forgive 
you,  on  condition  that  one  of  them  come  willingly  and 
suffer  for  you.  Let  me  have  no  words,  but  go  about 
vour  business,  and  swear  that,  if  your  daughters  refuse 
to  die  in  your  stead,  you  will  return  within  three 
months." 

The  merchant  had  no  mind  to  sacrifice  his  daughters 
to  the  ugly  monster,  but  he  thought,  in  obtaining  this 
respite,  he  should  have  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  them 
once  more  ;  so  he  promised  upon  oath  he  would  return, 
and  the  Beast  told  him  he  might  set  out  when  he 
pleased.  "  But,"  added  he,  "  you  shall  not  depart 
empty  handed.  Go  back  to  the  room  where  you  lay, 
and  you  will  see  a  great  empty  chest  ;  fill  it  with  what- 
ever you  like  best,  and  I  will  send  it  to  your  home," 
iind  at  the  same  time  the  Beast  withdrew. 


CHILDHFA'S    STORIKS.  26.5 

"Well/' said  the  i^ood  man  to  hiinsclt',  *•  it'  I  must  die 
I  shall  have  the  comfort,  at  least,  of  leaviii"-  sometiiiiii;- 
to  my  poor  children.  " 

He  returned  to  the  bed-chamber,  and  finding  a 
quantity  of  broad  ])ieces  of  gold,  he  filled  the  <;reat 
chest  the  Beast  had  mentioned,  locked  it,  and  after- 
wards took  his  horse  out  of  the  stable,  leavino-  the 
palace  with  as  much  grief  as  he  had  entered  it  with 
jov.  The  horse,  of  his  own  accord,  took  one  of  the 
roads  of  the  forest,  and  in  a  few  hours  the  good  man 
was  at  home.  His  children  came  around  him,  but 
instead  of  receiving  their  embraces  with  ])leasure,  he 
looked  on  them,  and  holding  uj)  the  branch  he  had  in 
his  hands,  he  burst  into  tears. 

"Here,  Beauty/'  said  he,  "take  those  roses;  but  little 
do  you  think  how  dear  they  are  likely  to  cost  your 
unhappy  father." 

He  then  related  his  fatal  adventure.  Immediately 
the  two  eldest  set  up  lamentable  outcries,  and  in  a 
reproachful  and  malignant  tone  said  all  manner  of  ill- 
natured  tilings  to  Beauty,  who  did  not  cry  at  all. 

"  Do  but  see  the  })ride  of  the  little  wretch,"  said 
they.  "  She  would  not  ask  for  fine  clothes,  as  we  did  ; 
but  no,  truly.  Miss  wanted  to  distinguish  herself;  so 
now  she  will  be  the  death  of  our  })oor  father,  and  yet 
she  does  not  so  much  as  shed  a  tear." 

"Why  should  I  f  "  answered  Beauty  ;  "it  would  be 
very  needless,  for  my  father  shall  not  suffer  upon  my 
account.  Since  the  monster  will  accept  of  one  of  his 
daughters,  I  will  deliver  myself  up  to  all  his  fury,  and 
I  am  very  hajipy  in  thinking  that  my  death  will  sa\  e 
my  father's  life,  and  be  a  proof  of  my  tender  love  for 
him." 

t8 


266  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

'^''No^  sister,"  said  her  three  brothers,  "that  shall  not 
be  ;  we  will  go  and  find  the  monster,  and  either  kill 
him  or  perish  in  the  attempt." 

'^'^Do  not  imagine  any  such  thing,  my  sons,"  said  the 
merchant ;  "  Beast's  ])ower  is  so  great  that  I  have  no 
hopes  of  your  overcoming  him.  I  am  charmed  with 
Beauty's  kind  and  generous  offer,  but  I  cannot  yield  to 
it.  I  am  old,  and  have  not  long  to  live,  so  can  only 
lose  a  few  years,  which  I  regret  for  your  sakes,  my  poor 
children." 

"Indeed,  father,"  said  Beauty,  "you  shall  not  go  to 
the  palace  without  me  ;  you  camiot  hinder  me  from 
following  you." 

It  was  to  no  purpose  all  they  could  say,  Beauty  still 
insisted  on  setting  out  for  the  fine  palace  ;  and  her 
sisters  were  delighted  at  it,  for  her  virtue  and  amiable 
qualities  made  them  envious  and  jealous. 

The  merchant  was  so  afflicted  at  the  thought  of  losing 
his  daughter,  that  he  had  quite  forgot  the  chest  full  of 
gold  ;  but  at  night,  when  he  retired  to  rest,  no  sooner 
had  he  shut  his  chamber  door,  than  to  his  great 
astonishment,  he  found  it  by  his  bedside.  He  was 
determined,  however,  not  to  tell  his  children  that  he 
was  grown  rich,  because  they  would  have  wanted  to 
return  to  town,  and  he  w^as  resolved  not  to  leave  the 
country  ;  but  he  trusted  Beauty  with  the  secret,  who 
informed  him  that  two  gentleman  came  in  his  absence 
and  courted  her  sisters.  She  begged  her  father  to 
consent  to  their  marriage,  and  give  them  fortunes  :  for 
she  was  so  good  that  she  loved  them,  and  forgave  them 
heartily  for  all  their  ill-usage.  These  wicked  creatures 
rubbed  their  eyes  with  an  onion  to  force  some  tears 
when  they  parted  with  their  sister,  but  her  brothers 
were  really  concerned.     Beauty  was  the  only  one  who 


CHILDREN'S    STOKIKS.  t>()7 

did  not  shed  tears  at  partino-,  l)eeaiise  she  would  not 
increase  tlieir  uneasiness. 

The  horse  took  the  direct  road  to  the  palace,  and 
towards  evening  they  perceived  it,  illuminated  as  at 
first.  The  horse  went  of  himself  into  the  stable,  and 
the  good  man  and  his  daughter  came  into  the  great 
hall,  where  they  found  a  table  splendidly  served  up, 
and  two  covers.  The  merchant  had  no  heart  to  eat, 
but  Beauty  endeavoured  to  a})})ear  cheerful,  sat  down 
to  table,  and  helped  him.  Afterwards,  thought  she  to 
herself,  "  Beast  surely  has  a  mind  to  fatten  me  before 
he  eats  me,  since  he  provides  such  a  plentiful  entertain- 
ment." When  they  had  supped,  they  heard  a  great 
noise,  and  the  merchant,  in  tears,  bid  his  poor  child 
farewell,  for  he  thought  Beast  was  coming.  Beauty  was 
sadly  terrified  at  his  horrid  form,  but  she  took  courage 
as  well  as  she  could,  and  the  monster  having  asked  her 
if  she  came  willingly,  "  Y-e-s,"  said  she,  tremblingly. 

"  You  are  very  good,  and  I  am  greatly  obliged  to 
you.  Honest  man,  go  your  ways  to-morrow  morning, 
but  never  think  of  returning  here  again.  Farewell, 
Beauty." 

"  Fare w  ell.  Beast,"  answ^ered  she  sighing,  and  im- 
mediately the  monster  withdrew. 

"  O,  daughter,"  said  the  merchant,  embracing  Beauty, 
'^  I  am  almost  frightened  to  death  ;  believe  me,  you  had 
better  go  back,  and  let  me  stay  here." 

"No,  father,"  said  Beauty,  in  a  resolute  tone  ;  '^you 
shall  set  out  to-morrow  morning,  and  leave  me  to  the 
care  and  protection  of  Providence." 

They  went  to  bed,  and  thought  they  should  not  close 
their  eyes  all  night ;  but  scarce  had  they  laid  down 
than  they  fell  fast  asleep  ;  and  Beauty  dreamed  a  fine 
lady  came  and   said  to   her,    "  I  am  content,   Beautv, 


268  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

with  your  good  will ;  this  good  action  of  yours  in 
giving  up  your  own  life  to  save  your  father's  shall  not 
o-o  unrewarded."  Beauty  waked  and  told  her  father 
her  dream,  and  though  it  helped  to  comfort  him  a 
little,  yet  he  could  not  help  crying  bitterly  when  he 
took  leave  of  his  dear  child  from  the  uncertainty  of 
again  beholding  her. 

As  soon  as  he  was  gone,  Beauty  sat  down  in  the 
great  hall,  and  fell  a-crying  likewise  ;  but  as  she  was 
mistress  of  a  great  deal  of  resolution,  she  recommended 
herself  to  God,  and  resolved  not  to  be  uneasy  the  little 
time  she  had  to  live,  for  she  firmly  believed  Beast 
would  eat  her  uj)  that  night. 

However,  she  thought  she  might  as  well  walk  about 
till  then,  and  view  this  fine  castle,  which  she  could  not 
help  admiring.  It  was  a  delightful,  pleasant  place,  and 
she  was  extremely  surprised  at  seeing  a  door,  over 
which  was  WTitten  "Beauty's  Apartment."  She 
opened  it  hastily,  and  was  quite  dazzled  with  the 
magnificence  that  reigned  throughout ;  but  what  chiefly 
took  up  her  attention  w-as  a  large  library,  a  harpsichord, 
and  several  music  books.  "  Well,"  said  she  to  herself, 
"  I  see  they  will  not  let  my  time  hang  heavily  on  my 
hands  for  want  of  amusement."  Then  she  reflected, 
"  Were  I  but  to  stay  here  a  day,  there  would  not  have 
been  all  these  preparations."  This  consideration  in- 
spired her  with  fresh  courage,  and  opening  the  library, 
she  took  a  book  and  read  these  words  in  letters  of 
gold  :— 

"  Welcome,  Beauty  ;  banish  fear, 
You  are  queen  and  mistress  here  ; 
Speak  your  wishes,  speak  your  will, 
Swift  obedience  meets  them  still." 

"Alas,"  said  she,  Avith  a  sigh,  "there  is  nothing  I 
desire  so  much  as  to  see  my  poor  father,  and  to  know 


CHILDREN'S    STORIKS.  269 

wliat  hv  is  doin^."  Slie  had  110  sooner  said  this  than, 
to  her  great  amazement,  she  saw  lier  own  home,  where 
her  father  liad  arrived  with  a  very  dejected  counten- 
ance ;  her  sisters  went  to  meet  him,  and,  notwithstand- 
ing their  endeavours  to  ajjpear  sorrowful,  their  joy,  felt 
for  having  got  rid  of  their  sister,  was  visible  in  every 
feature.  A  moment  after,  everything  disappeared,  with 
Beauty's  a})prehensions  at  this  j)roof  of  Beast's  com- 
plaisance. 

At  noon  she  found  dinner  ready,  and  while  at  table 
was  entertained  with  an  excellent  concert  of  music, 
though  without  seeing  anybody  ;  but  at  night,  as  she 
Avas  going  to  sit  down  to  supper,  she  heard  the  noise 
Beast  made,  and  could  not  help  being  sadly  terrified. 

'•^  Beauty,"  said  the  monster,  "will  you  give  me  leave 
to  see  you  sup  ?  " 

"  That  is  as  you  please,"  answered  Beauty,  trembling. 

'•'No,"  replied  the  Beast;  "you  alone  are  mistress 
here  ;  you  need  only  bid  me  begone,  if  my  presence  is 
troublesome,  and  I  will  immediately  withdraw.  Every- 
thing here  is  yours,  and  I  should  be  very  uneasy  if  you 
were  not  happy  My  heart  is  good,  though  I  am  a 
monster." 

"^•^ Among  mankind,"  said  Beauty,  "there  are  many 
that  deserve  that  name  more  than  you,  and  I  prefer 
you,  just  as  you  are,  to  those  who,  under  a  human 
form,  hide  a  treacherous,  corrupt,  and  ungrateful 
heart." 

Beauty  ate  a  hearty  supper,  and  had  almost  con- 
quered her  dread  of  the  monster ;  but  she  had  like  to 
have  fainted  away  when  he  said  to  her,  "  Beauty,  will 
you  be  my  wife  ?  '' 

It  was  some  time  before  she  durst  answer,  for 
she    was    afraid    of    making    him    angry    if    she    re- 


O70  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

fused.  At  last,  however,  she  said,  trembling,  "  No, 
Beast." 

Immediately  the  poor  monster  began  to  sigh,  and 
howl  so  frightfully,  that  the  whole  palace  echoed.  But 
Beauty  soon  recovered  her  fright,  for  Beast,  having  said 
in  a  mournful  voice,  "  Then  farewell.  Beauty,"  left  the 
room,  and  only  turned  back  now  and  then  to  look  at 
her  as  he  went  out. 

When  Beauty  was  alone,  she  felt  a  great  deal  of 
compassion  for  poor  Beast.  "  Alas  !  "  said  she,  "  'tis  a 
thousand  pities  anything  so  good-natured  should  be  so 
ugly  !  " 

Beauty  spent  three  months  very  contentedly  in  the 
place.  Every  evening  Beast  paid  her  a  visit,  and 
talked  to  her  during  supper  very  rationally,  with  plain, 
good  common-sense,  but  never  with  what  the  world 
calls  wit ;  and  Beauty  daily  discovered  some  valuable 
qualifications  in  the  monster,  till  seeing  him  often  had 
so  accustomed  her  to  his  deformity,  that,  far  from 
dreading  the  time  of  his  visit,  she  would  often  look  on 
her  watch  to  see  when  it  would  be  nine,  for  the  Beast 
never  missed  coming  at  that  hour,  There  was  but  one 
thing  that  gave  Beauty  any  concern,  which  was  that 
every  night,  before  she  went  to  bed,  the  monster  always 
asked  her  if  she  would  be  his  wife.  One  day,  she  said 
to  him,  "  Beast,  you  make  me  very  unhappy.  I  wish  I 
could  consent  to  marry  you  ;  but  I  am  too  sincere  to 
make  you  believe  that  will  ever  happen.  I  shall 
always  esteem  you  as  a  friend  ;  endeavour  to  be 
satisfied  with  this." 

"  I  must,"  said  the  Beast,  "  for  alas  !  I  know  too  well 
my  own  misfortune ;  but  then  I  love  you  with  the 
tenderest  affection.     However,  I  ought  to  think  myself 


CHILDREN'S   STORIES.  271 

lia})])y  that  you  will  stay  iu'iv.  Promise  nu-  iicvi  r  to 
leave  nie  ?  " 

Beauty  blushed  at  these  words.  Slu'  had  seen  in  her 
glass  that  her  father  had  pined  himself  sick  for  the  loss 
of  her^  and  she  longed  to  see  him  again. 

"  I  could/'  answered  she,  "  indeed  })romise  never  to 
leave  you  entirely,  but  I  have  so  great  a  desire  to  see 
my  fether,  that  I  shall  fret  to  death  if  you  refuse  me 
that  satisfaction . ' ' 

"I  had  rather  die  myself,"  said  the  monster,  "than 
give  you  the  least  uneasiness.  I  will  send  you  to  your 
father  ;  you  will  remain  with  him,  and  poor  Beast  shall 
die  of  grief." 

"  Xo,"  said  Beauty,  wee})ing, ''  I  love  you  too  well  to 
be  the  cause  of  your  death.  I  give  you  my  promise  to 
return  in  a  week,  for  I  indeed  feel  a  kind  of  liking  for 
you.  You  have  shown  me  that  my  sisters  are  married, 
and  my  brothers  gone  to  the  army  ;  only  let  me  stay  a 
week  with  my  father,  as  he  is  alone." 

"  You  shall  be  there  to-morrow  morning,"  said  the 
Beast ;  "  but  remember  your  promise.  You  need  only 
lay  3'our  ring  on  the  table  before  you  go  to  bed,  when 
you  have  a  mind  to  come  back.      Farewell,  Beauty.'' 

Beast  sighed  as  usual,  bidding  her  good-night ;  and 
Beauty  went  to  bed  very  sad  at  seeing  him  so  afflicted. 
When  she  waked  the  next  morning,  she  found  herself 
at  her  father's,  and  having  rung  a  little  bell  that  was  by 
her  bed-side,  she  saw  the  maid  come,  who,  the  moment 
she  saw  her,  gave  a  loud  shriek,  at  which  the  good  man 
ran  upstairs,  and  thought  he  should  have  died  with  joy 
to  see  his  dear  daughter  again.  He  held  her  fast  locked 
in  his  arms  above  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  As  soon  as  the 
first  transports  were  over,  Beauty  began  to  think  of 
rising,  and   was   afraid   she   had  no  clothes  to  j)ut  on  ; 


272  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

but  the  maid  told  her  that  she  had  just  found,  in  the 
next  room,  a  large  trunk  full  of  gowns,  covered  with 
gold  and  diamonds.  Beauty  thanked  good  Beast  for 
his  kind  care,  and  taking  one  of  the  plainest  of  them, 
she  intended  to  make  a  present  of  the  others  to  her 
sisters.  She  scarcely  had  said  so,  when  the  trunk  dis- 
appeared. Her  father  told  her  that  Beast  insisted  on 
her  keeping  them  herself,  and  immediately  both  gowns 
and  trunk  came  back  again. 

Beauty  dressed  herself ;  and  in  the  meantime  they 
sent  to  her  sisters,  who  hastened  thither  wdth  their 
husbands.  They  were  both  of  them  very  unhappy. 
The  eldest  had  married  a  gentleman,  extremely  hand- 
some, indeed,  but  so  fond  of  his  own  person  that  he 
neglected  his  wife.  The  second  had  married  a  man  of 
wit,  but  he  only  made  use  of  it  to  plague  and  torment 
every  one.  Beauty's  sisters  sickened  with  envy  when 
they  saw  her  dressed  like  a  Princess,  and  look  more 
beautiful  than  ever.  They  went  down  into  the  garden 
to  vent  their  spleen,  and  agreed  to  persuade  her  to  stay 
a  week  longer  with  them,  which  probably  might  so 
enrage  the  Beast  as  to  make  him  devour  her.  After 
they  had  taken  this  resolution,  they  went  up  and 
behaved  so  affectionately  to  their  sister  that  poor 
Beauty  wept  for  joy,  and,  at  their  request,  promised  to 
stay  seven  nights  longer. 

In  the  meantime,  Beauty  was  unhappy.  The  tenth 
night  she  dreamed  she  was  in  the  palace  garden,  and 
that  she  saw-  Beast  extended  on  the  grass  plot,  who 
seemed  just  expiring,  and,  in  a  dying  voice,  reproached 
her  with  her  ingratitude.  Beauty  started  out  of  her 
sleep,  and  bursting  into  tears,  reproached  herself  for  her 
ingratitude,  and  her  insensibility  of  his  many  kind  and 
agreeable  qualifications.      Having  said  much  on  this,  she 


CHILDRKN'S    STOIUKS.  273 

rose,  })ut  her  riii"-  on  the  tabh-,  and  lav  down  a<;ain. 
Seareely  was  she  in  bed  before  slie  fell  asleep  ;  and 
when  she  wakened  next  niornin<»-,  she  was  overjoyed  to 
find  iierself  in  the  Beast's  |)alaee.  She  put  on  one  of 
her  riehest  suits  to  ])lease  him,  and  waited  for  evening 
with  the  utmost  impatienee  ;  at  last  the  wished  for 
hour  came^  the  eloek  struek  nine,  yet  no  Beast 
appeared.  After  having-  sought  for  him  everywhere, 
she  recollected  her  dream,  and  flew  to  the  canal  in  the 
garden.  There  she  found  jwor  Beast  stretched  out 
quite  senseless,  and,  as  she  imagined,  dead.  She  threw 
herself  u})on  him  without  any  dread,  and  finding  his 
heart  beat  still,  she  fetched  some  water  from  the  canal, 
and  poured  it  on  his  head. 

Beast  opened  his  eyes,  and  said  to  Beauty,  "  You 
forgot  your  promise,  and  I  was  so  afflicted  at  having 
lost  you  that  I  resolved  to  starve  myself.  But  since  I 
have  the  haj)})iness  of  seeing  you  once  more,  I  die 
satisfied." 

"^  No,  dear  Beast,"  said  Beauty,  '^you  must  not  die  ; 
live  to  be  my  husband.  From  this  moment  I  give  you 
my  hand,  and  swear  to  be  none  but  yours." 

Beauty  scarcely  had  j)ronounced  these  words,  when 
the  palace  sparkled  with  lights  and  fireworks,  instru- 
ments of  music — everything  seemed  to  portend  some 
great  event ;  but  nothing  could  fix  her  attention.  She 
turned  to  her  dear  Beast,  for  whom  she  trembled  with 
fear ;  but  how  great  was  her  surprise  !  Beast  had 
disappeared,  and  she  saw  at  her  feet  one  of  the  loveliest 
Princes  that  ever  eye  beheld,  who  returned  her  thanks 
for  having  put  an  end  to  the  charm  under  which  he 
had  so  long  resembled  a  beast.  Though  this  Prince 
was  worthy  of  all  her  attention,  she  could  not  forbear 
asking  where  Beast  was. 


274  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

"  You  see  him  at  your  feet,"  said  the  Prince  ;  "  a 
wicked  fairv  had  condemned  me  to  remain  under  that 
shape  till  a  beautiful  virgin  should  consent  to  marry 
me.  In  offering  you  my  crown,  I  can't  discharge  the 
obligations  I  have  to  you." 

Beauty,  agreeably  surprised,  gave  the  charming 
Prince  her  hand  to  rise  ;  they  went  together  into  the 
castle,  and  Beauty  was  overjoyed  to  find,  in  the  great 
hall,  her  father  and  his  whole  family,  whom  the  beauti- 
ful lady,  that  appeared  to  her  in  her  dream,  had  con- 
veyed thither. 

"  Beauty,"  said  this  lady,  "  come  and  receive  the 
reward  of  your  judicious  choice  ;  you  are  going  to  be  a 
great  Queen.  I  hope  the  throne  will  not  lessen  your 
virtue,  nor  make  you  forget  yourself  As  for  you, 
ladies,"  said  the  fairy  to  Beauty's  two  sisters,  "  I  know 
your  hearts  and  all  the  malice  they  contain.  Become 
two  statues  :  but  under  this  transformation,  still  retain 
your  reason.  You  shall  stand  before  your  sister's 
palace  gate,  and  be  it  your  punishment  to  behold  her 
happiness." 

Immediately  the  fairy  gave  a  stroke  with  her  wand, 
and,  in  a  moment,  all  that  were  in  the  hall  were 
transported  into  the  Prince's  palace.  His  subjects  re- 
ceived him  with  joy.  He  married  Beauty,  and  lived 
with  her  many  years  ;  and  their  happiness,  as  it  was 
founded  on  virtue,  was  complete. 

THE    SLEEPING    BEAUTY. 

There  was  formerly,  in  a  distant  country,  a  king  and 
(jueen,  the  most .  beautiful  and  happy  in  the  w^orld  : 
having  nothing  but  the  want  of  children  to  participate 
in  the  pleasures  they  enjoyed.     This  was  their  w^hole 


CHILDRKN'S   STOUIKS.  27.5 

concern  ;  ])hy.siciHns,  waters,  xows,  and  offerings  were 
tried,  but  all  to  no  purpose.  At  last,  however,  the 
([ueen  proved  with  child,  and  in  due  time  she  was 
brought  to  bed  of  a  dau*>hter.  At  the  christenin<^,  the 
princess  had  seven  fairies  for  her  o:()d-ni()thers,  who 
were  all  they  could  find  in  the  whole  kin<2;(loiu,  that 
every  one  might  give  her  a  gift. 

The  christening  being  over,  a  grand  feast  was  })re- 
pared  to  entertain  and  thank  the  fairies.  Before  each 
of  them  was  placed  a  magnificent  cover,  with  a  spoon,  a 
knife,  and  a  fork,  of  pure  gold  and  excellent  workman- 
ship, set  with  divers  precious  stones  ;  ])ut,  as  they  were 
all  sitting  down  at  the  table,  they  saw  come  into  the 
hall  a  very  old  fairy,  whom  they  had  not  invited, 
because  it  was  near  fifty  ^ears  since  she  had  been  out 
of  a  certain  tower,  and  was  thought  to  have  been  either 
dead  or  enchanted. 

The  king  ordered  her  a  cover,  but  could  not  furnish 
her  with  a  case  of  gold  as  the  others  had,  because  he 
had  only  seven  made  for  the  seven  fairies.  The  old 
fairy,  thinking  she  was  slighted  b}'  not  being  treated  in 
the  same  manner  as  the  rest,  murmured  out  some 
threats  between  her  teeth. 

One  of  the  young  fairies  who  sat  by  her,  overheard 
how  she  grumbled,  and  judging  that  she  might  give  the 
little  princess  some  unlucky  gift,  she  went,  as  soon  as 
she  rose  from  the  table,  and  hid  herself  behind  the 
hangings,  that  she  might  speak  last,  and  rejiair,  as 
much  as  possibly  she  could,  the  evil  which  the  old  fairy 
might  intend. 

In  the  meantime,  all  the  fairies  began  to  give  their 
gifts  to  the  princess  in  the  following  manner  : — 

The  youngest  gave  her  a  gift  that  she  should  be  the 
most  beautiful  person  in  the  world. 


076  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

Tlu'  third,  that  she  would  have  a  wonderful  grace  in 
everything  that  she  did. 

The  fourth,  that  she  would  sing  perfectly  well. 

And  the  sixth,  that  she  would  play  on  all  kinds 
of  musical  instruments  to  the  utmost  degree  of  per- 
fection. 

The  old  fairy's  turn  coming  next,  she  advanced 
forward,  and,  with  a  shaking  head  which  seemed  to 
show  more  spite  than  age,  she  said,  "  That  the  princess 
would  have  her  hands  pierced  with  a  spindle,  and  die 
of  the  wound." 

Tliis  terrible  gift  made  the  whole  company  tremble, 
and  every  one  of  them  fell  a-crying. 

At  this  very  instant,  the  young  fairy  came  out  from 
behind  the  curtains,  and  spoke  these  words  aloud  : — 
"  Assure  yourselves,  O  king  and  queen,  that  your 
daughter  shall  not  die  of  this  disaster.  It  is  true  I 
have  not  power  to  undo  what  my  elder  has  done.  The 
princess  shall  indeed  pierce  her  hand  with  a  spindle  ; 
but  instead  of  dying,  she  shall  only  fall  into  a  profound 
sleep,  which  shall  last  a  hundred  years,  at  the  expira- 
tion of  which  a  king's  son  shall  come,  and  awake  her 
from  it." 

The  king,  to  avoid  this  misfortune  told  by  the  old 
splenetic  and  malicious  fairy,  caused  immediately  his 
royal  ])roclamation  to  be  issued  forth,  whereby  every 
person  was  forbidden,  upon  pain  of  death,  to  spin  with 
a  distaff  or  spindle  ;  nay,  even  so  much  as  to  have  a 
spindle  in  any  of  their  houses. 

About  fifteen  or  sixteen  years  after,  the  king  and 
queen  being  gone  to  one  of  their  houses  of  pleasure, 
the  young  princess  hap})ened  to  divert  herselt  by  going 
u])  and  down  the  palace,  when,  going  up  from  one 
aj)artment  to  another,  she  at  length  came  into  a  little 


CHILDRFA'S   STORIKS.  277 

room  at  the  top  of  tlu-  tower,  wlu-rc  an  old  woinaii  was 
sittino-  all  alone,  and  spiiniing  with  her  spindle. 

This  good  woman  had  not  heard  of  the  king's  pro- 
clamation against  s])indles. 

"  What  are  you  doing  there,  (ioody  ?  "  said  the 
princess. 

"  I  am  spinning,  my  ])retty  child/'  said  the  old 
woman,  who  did  not  know  who  she  was. 

"  Ha  I  "  said  the  princess,  "  that  is  very  j)retty  ;  how- 
do  yon  do  it  ?  (iive  it  to  me,  that  I  may  see  if  I  can 
do  so." 

The  old  woman,  to  satisfy  the  child's  curiosity, 
granted  her  request.  She  had  no  sooner  taken  it  into 
her  hand,  than,  Avhether  being  very  hasty  at  it  and 
somewhat  unhandy,  or  that  the  decree  of  the  s})iteful 
fan*y  had  ordained  it,  is  not  to  be  certainly  ascertained, 
but,  however,  it  immediately  ran  into  her  hand,  and 
she  directly  fell  down  upon  the  ground  in  a  swoon. 

The  good  old  woman,  not  knowing  what  to  do  in  this 
affair,  cried  out  for  help.  Peo})le  came  in  from  every 
quarter  in  great  numbers.  Some  threw^  water  upon  the 
princess's  face,  unlaced  her,  struck  her  on  the  palms  of 
her  hands,  and  rubbed  her  temples  with  Hungary 
water ;  but  all  they  could  do  did  not  bring  her  to 
herself. 

The  good  fairy  wdio  had  saved  her  life,  by  con- 
demning her  to  sleej)  one  hundred  years,  was  in  the. 
kingdom  of  Matakin,  twelve  thousand  leagues  off,  w^ien 
this  accident  befel  the  princess  ;  but  she  was  instantly 
informed  of  it  by  a  little  dwarf,  who  had  boots  of  seven 
leagues  :  that  is,  boots  with  which  he  could  tread  over 
seven  leagues  of  ground  at  one  stride.  The  fairy  left 
the  kingdom  immediately,  and  arrived  at  the  palace  in 
about  an  hour  after,  in  a  fiery  chariot  drawn  by  dragons. 


c,7S  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

The  king-  handed  her  out  of  the  chariot,  and  she 
ajiproved  of  everything  he  had  done  :  but,  as  she  had  a 
very  great  foresight,  she  thought  that  when  the 
])rincess  should  awake,  she  might  not  know  what  to  do 
witli  herself,  being  all  alone  in  this  old  palace  ;  there- 
fore, she  touched  with  her  wand  everything  in  the 
])alace,  except  the  king  and  queen,  governesses,  maids 
of  honour,  ladies  of  the  bed-chamber,  gentlemen,  officers, 
stewards,  cooks,  under-cooks,  scullions,  guards,  with 
their  beef-eaters,  pages,  and  footmen.  She  likewise 
touched  all  the  horses  that  were  in  the  stables,  as  well 
])ads  as  others,  the  great  dog  in  the  outer  court,  and 
the  little  spaniel  bitch  which  lay  by  her  on  the  bed. 

Immediately  on  her  touching  them  they  all  fell 
asleep,  that  they  might  not  wake  before  their  mistress, 
and  that  they  might  be  ready  to  wait  ujion  her  when 
she  wanted  them.  The  very  spits  at  the  fire,  as  full  as 
they  could  be  of  partridges  and  pheasants,  and  every- 
thing in  the  place,  whether  animate  or  inanimate,  fell 
asleep  also. 

All  this  was  done  in  a  moment,  for  fairies  are  not 
long  in  doing  their  business. 

And  now  the  king  and  queen,  having  kissed  their 
child  without  waking  her,  went  out  of  the  palace,  and 
})ut  forth  a  proclamation  that  nobody  should  come  near 
it.  This,  however,  was  unnecessary,  for  in  less  than  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  there  got  up  all  around  the  park 
such  a  vast  number  of  trees,  great  and  small  bushes, 
and  brambles,  twined  one  within  the  other,  that  neither 
man  nor  beast  could  pass  through,  so  that  nothing 
could  be  seen  but  the  very  tops  of  the  towers  of  the 
})alace,  and  not  that  even,  unless  it  w^as  a  good  way  off. 
Nobody  doubted  but  the  fairy  gave  therein  a  very 
extraordinary    sample    of  her   art,    that    the    princess. 


CHILDREN'S    ST()ini:S.  279 

while  she  remained  slet'j)iii<;-,  ini<;hl  lia\c  ii()lhin«^-  to 
fear  from  any  eurious   |)e()j)U'. 

Wlien  a  liundred  years  had  oont-  and  |)ast,  the  son 
of  a  king  then  reigning,  and  who  was  of  another  faniilv 
from  tliat  of  the  slee])ing  j)rineess,  being  out  a-hunting 
on  that  side  of  the  eountry,  asked  wliat  these  towers 
were  whieh  lie  saw  in  tlie  midst  of  a  great  thick  wood. 
Every  one  answered  according  as  they  had  lieard ; 
some  said  it  was  an  okl  ruinous  castle,  haunted  by 
spirits  ;  others,  that  all  the  sorcerers  and  witches  kept 
their  Sabbath,  or  weekly  meeting,  in  that  place. 

The  most  common  opinion  was  that  an  ogre  lived 
there^  and  that  he  carried  thither  all  the  little  children 
he  could  catch,  that  he  might  eat  them  up  at  his 
leisure,  without  anybody  being  able  to  follow  him, 
as  having  himself  only  power  to  pass  through  the 
wood. 

The  prince  was  at  a  stand,  not  knowing  what  to 
believe,  when  an  aged  man  spoke  to  him  thus  : — 

"  May  it  please  your  highness,  it  is  about  fifty  years 
since  I  heard  from  my  father,  who  heard  my  grand- 
father say  that  there  was  then  in  this  castle  a  princess, 
the  most  beautiful  that  was  ever  seen,  that  she  must 
sleep  there  for  a  hundred  years^  and  would  be  wakened 
by  a  king's  son,  for  whom  she  was  reserved." 

The  young  prince  was  all  on  fire  at  these  words, 
believing,  without  considering  the  matter,  that  he 
could  put  an  end  to  this  rare  adventure,  and,  })ushed 
on  by  love  and  honour,  resolved  that  moment  to  look 
into  it. 

Scarce  had  he  advanced  towards  the  wood,  when  all 
the  great  trees,  the  bushes,  and  brambles,  gave  way  of 
their  own  accord^  and  let  him  pass  through.  He  Avent 
up  to  the  castle,  which  he  saw  at  the  end  of  a  large 


oso  CHILDREN'S  STORIES. 

avenue,  wliich  he  went  into  ;  and  what  not  a  Uttle 
surprised  him  was  he  saw  none  of  his  people  could 
follow  him,  because  the  trees  closed  again  as  soon  as  he 
passed  through  them. 

However,  he  did  not  cease  from  valiantly  continuing 
his  wav.  He  came  into  a  spacious  outward  court, 
where  everything  he  saw  might  have  frozen  up  the 
most  hardy  person  with  horror.  There  reigned  all 
over  a  most  frightful  silence  ;  the  image  of  death 
everywhere  showed  itself,  and  there  was  nothing  to  be 
seen  but  stretch ed-out  bodies  of  men  and  animals,  all 
seeming  to  be  dead. 

He,  however,  very  well  knew,  by  the  rosy  faces  and 
the  pimpled  noses  of  the  beef-eaters,  that  they  were 
only  asleep  ;  and  their  goblets,  wherein  still  remained 
some  few  drops  of  wine,  plainly  showing  that  they  all 
liad  fallen  asleep  in  their  cups. 

He  then,  crossing  a  court  paved  with  marble,  went 
u])stairs,  and  came  into  the  guard-chamber,  where  the 
guards  were  standing  in  their  ranks,  with  their  muskets 
upon  their  shoulders,  and  snoring  as  loud  as  they 
could.  After  that,  he  went  through  several  rooms  full 
of  gentlemen  and  ladies  all  asleep,  some  standing,  and 
others  sitting. 

At  last  he  came  into  a  chamber  all  gilt  with  gold  ; 
liere  he  saw  upon  a  bed,  the  curtains  of  which  were  all 
open,  the  finest  sight  that  ever  he  beheld — a  princess, 
who  a})peared  to  be  about  fifteen  or  sixteen  years  of 
age,  and  whose  resplendent  beauty  had  in  it  something 
divine.  He  approached  w^ith  trembling  and  admiration, 
and  fell  down  before  her  on  his  knees.  And  now  the 
enchantment  was  at  an  end  ;  the  princess  awaked,  and 
looked  on  him  with  eyes  more  tender  than  the  first 
view  might  seem  to  admit  of. 


CHILDRKN'S    STOIUKS.  'JSI 

"Is  it  vt)U,  inv  ))riiK-c' ?  "  she  said  to  liini  ;  '*  \<)ii 
lia\  :^"  waited  a  Ion""  time." 

The  ])riiu-e,  cliarnu'd  with  these  words,  and  iiiiieh 
more  with  the  manner  in  which  the\  NNcre  spoken, 
assured  her  that  he  loved  her  better  tlian  himself". 

Their  discourse  was  so  well  conducted  that  they  did 
wee])  more  than  talk  :  there  was  very  little  ehxjuence, 
but  a  great  deal  of  love.  He  was  more  at  a  loss  than 
she  was,  and  no  wonder,  as  she  had  time  to  think  on 
w^hat  to  say  to  him  ;  for  it  is  very  probable,  though  the 
history  mentions  nothing  of  it,  that  the  good  fairy, 
during  so  long  a  slee}),  had  given  her  agreeable  dreams. 
In  short,  they  talked  four  hours  together,  and  yet  said 
not  half  of  w  hat  they  had  got  to  say. 

In  the  meantime,  all  in  the  palace  awaked,  every  one 
thinking  on  his  particular  business  ;  and  as  all  of  them 
were  not  in  love,  they  were  ready  to  die  with  hunger. 
The  chief  lady  of  honour,  being  as  sharp  set  as  the 
others,  grew  very  impatient,  and  told  the  ])rincess 
aloud  that  the  su])per  was  served  up.  The  prince 
helped  the  ])rincess  to  rise,  she  being  entirely  dressed, 
and  very  magnificent,  though  his  royal  highness  did 
not  forget  to  tell  her  that  she  was  dressed  like  his 
grandmother,  and  had  a  ]K)int-band  })eeping  over  a 
high  collar  ;  but,  however,  she  looked  no  less  beautiful 
and  charming  for  all  that. 

They  went  into  the  great  hall  of  looking  glasses, 
where  they  supped,  and  were  served  by  the  officers  of 
the  princess  ;  the  violins  and  hautboys  played  all  old 
tunes,  but  very  excellent,  though  it  was  now  about  a 
hundred  years  since  they  had  lived.  And  after  su})per 
without  any  loss  of  time,  the  lord  almoner  married 
them  in  the  chapel  of  the  castle,  and  the  chief  lady  of 
honour  drew  the  curtains. 

19 


282  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

They  liad  but  very  little  sleep  that  night,  the 
princess  had  no  occasion  ;  and  the  prince  left  her  the 
next  morning  to  return  into  the  city^  where  his  father 
had  been  in  great  pain  anxious  for  his  return. 

The  prince  told  him  he  had  lost  his  way  in  the  forest 
as  he  was  hunting,  and  had  lain  at  the  cottage  of  a 
collier,  who  had  given  him  some  brown  bread  and 
cheese.  % 

The  king,  his  father,  who  was  a  very  good  man, 
readily  believed  him  ;  but  his  mother,  the  queen,  could 
not  be  persuaded  that  this  was  altogether  true  ;  and 
seeing  that  he  went  almost  every  day  a-hunting,  and 
that  he  had  always  found  some  excuse  for  so  doing, 
though  he  had  lain  out  three  or  four  nights  together, 
she  began  to  suspect  (and  very  justly  too)  his  having 
some  little  private  amour,  which  he  then  endeavoured 
that  she  should  remain  ignorant  of. 

Now  these  frequent  excursions,  which  he  then  made 
from  the  palace,  were  the  times  that  he  retired  to  the 
princess,  with  whom  he  lived  in  this  manner  for  about 
two  years,  and  by  whom  he  had  two  fine  children,  the 
eldest  of  whom  was  a  girl,  whom  they  named  Morning, 
and  the  youngest  a  boy,  whom  they  named  Day, 
because  he  was  a  great  deal  handsomer  and  much  more 
beautiful  and  comely  than  the  sister. 

The  queen's  jealousy  increasing,  she  several  times 
spoke  to  her  son,  desiring  him  to  inform  her  after 
what  manner  he  spent  his  time,  alleging  that,  as  he 
saw  her  so  very  uneasy,  he  ought  in  duty  to  satisfy 
her.  But  he  never  dared  to  trust  her  with  his  secret, 
for  she  was  of  the  race  of  ogres,  and  the  kins^  would 
certainly  not  have  married  her  had  it  not  been  for  her 
vast  riches. 


CHILDRKX'S  STORIKS.  2H'A 

It  was  whispered  anumo-  tin-  court  that  shi-  liad  an 
ogrish  inclination,  and  that  whenever  she  saw  any 
little  children  goino-  by,  she  had  all  the  difficulty  in  the 
world  to  retrain  from  falling  uj)()n  them  ;  so  the  j)rinee 
would  never  tell  her  one  word. 

But  when  the  king  was  dead,  whieli  haj)|)eiR'd  about 
two  years  afterwards,  and  he  saw  himself  lord  and 
ni^ttar,  he  then  openly  declared  his  marriage,  and  went 
in  great  ceremony  to  conduct  his  queen  to  the  palace. 
They  made  a  very  magnificent  entry  into  the  city,  with 
their  two  children  beside  them. 

Some  time  after,  the  king  went  to  make  war  witli 
the  Kmperor  Cantalabute,  his  neighbour. 

He  left  the  government  of  the  kingdom  to  the  queen, 
his  mother,  and  earnestly  recommended  to  her  the  care 
of  his  wife  and  children . 

As  soon  as  he  was  departed,  the  queen  sent  for  her 
daughter-in-law  to  come  to  her,  and  then  sent  her  to  a 
country  house  among  the  woods,  that  she  might  with 
more  ease  and  secrecy  gratify  her  inclinations. 

Some  days  after  she  went  to  this  country  house 
herself,  and  calling  for  the  clerk  of  the  kitchen,  she 
said  to  him,  "  I  have  a  mind  to  eat  little  Morning  for 
my  dinner  to-morrow." 

"  Ah,  madam,"  cried  the  clerk  of  the  kitchen  in  a 
very  great  surprise. 

"  No  excuse,"  replied  she,  interrupting  him  ;  "•  I  Mill 
have  it  so," — and  this  she  spoke  in  the  tone  of  an 
ogress,  seeming  to  have  a  strong  desire  to  taste  fresh 
meat.  '''  And  to  make  the  dish  more  delicious,"  added 
she,  "  I  will  eat  her  with  sauce  made  of  Robert." 

This  poor  man,  knowing  very  well  how  dangerous  it 
was  to  play  tricks  with  ogresses,  took  his  great  knife 
and  went  up  into  little  Morning's  chamber.     She  was 


iicSi 


CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 


then  four  vears  old,  and  came  up  to  him  leaping  and 
lauohinir,  to  take  him  about  the  neck,  and  asked  him 
fbr'^some  sugar-candy,  on  which  he  began  to  weep,  and 
tlu>  knife  fell  out  of  his  hand  ;  and  he  went  into  the 
back  yard  and  killed  a  lamb,  which  he  dressed  with 
such  good  sauce  that  his  mistress  assured  him  she  had 
never  eaten  anything  so  good  in  all  her  life. 

He  had  at  the  same  time  taken  up  little  Morning, 
and  carried  her  to  his  wife,  in  order  that  she  might  be 
concealed  in  a  lodging  which  he  had  at  the  bottom  of 
the  courtyard. 

The  queen's  lascivious  appetite  (according  to  her  own 
ajiprehensions)  being  once  humoured,  she  again  began 
to  long  for  another  dainty  bit.  Accordingly,  a  few 
days  after,  she  called  for  the  clerk  of  the  kitchen,  and 
told  him  that  she  intended  that  night  to  sup  out  of 
little  Day.  He  answered  never  a  word,  being  resolved 
to  cheat  her  as  he  had  done  before.  He  went  to  find 
little  Day,  and  saw  him  with  a  foil  in  his  hand,  with 
which  he  was  fencing  with  a  monkey,  the  child  being 
but  three  years  old.  He  took  him  up  in  his  arms  and 
carried  him  to  his  wife,  that  she  might  conceal  him  in 
her  chamber,  along  with  his  sister  ;  and,  in  the  room  of 
little  Day,  cooked  up  a  young  kid  very  tender,  which 
the  ogress  praised  as  much  as  the  former,  saying  it  was 
Avonderfully  good. 

All  hitherto  was  mighty  well  ;  but  a  few  evenings 
after  this  craving,  the  ogress  said  to  the  clerk  of  the 
kitchen,  "  I  will  also  eat  the  young  queen  with  the 
same  sauce  that  I  had  with  the  children." 

Now  was  the  critical  time,  for  the  poor  clerk  de- 
spaired of  being  able  to  deceive  her. 

The  young  queen  was  turned  of  twenty  years  of  age^ 
not  counting  the  hundred  years  she  had  been  asleep. 


CHiLDin'A's  s'i"()i{ii:s.  ^2s:. 

Thou<>ii  luT  skin  was  souR-what  t<)U«;li,  vet  she  was  fair 
and  beautiful  :  and  how  to  find  a  beast  in  tlic  vard  so 
firm  that  he  might  kill  and  eook  to  appease  her  eanine 
appetite,  was  what  puzzled  him  greatly,  and  made  him 
totally  at  a  loss  what  to  do. 

He  then  took  a  resolution  that  he  must  save  his  own 
life,  and  eut  the  queen's  throat ;  and  going  into  lur 
ehamber  with  an  intent  to  do  it  at  onee,  he  ])ut  himself 
into  as  great  a  fury  as  he  eould,  went  into  the  queen's 
room  with  his  dagger  in  his  hand.  However,  his 
humanity  would  not  allow  him  to  surj^rise  her  ;  but  he 
told  her,  with  a  great  deal  of  respect,  the  orders  he  had 
received  from  the  queen  her  mother. 

"  Do  it,"  said  she,  stretching  out  her  neck  ;  "■  execute 
your  orders,  and  I  shall  go  and  see  my  children,  whom 
I  so  dearly  love."  For  she  thought  them  dead  ever 
since  they  had  been  taken  from  her. 

''  No,  fair  princess  !  "  cried  the  humane  clerk  of  the 
kitchen,  all  in  tears  ;  "  you  shall  see  your  children 
again.  But  then  you  shall  go  with  me  to  my  lodgings, 
where  I  have  concealed  them  :  and  I  shall  deceive  the 
queen  once  more  by  giving  her  another  young  kid  in 
your  stead." 

Upon  this  he  forthwith  conducted  her  to  her  chamber, 
where  he  left  her  to  embrace  her  children,  and  cry 
aloud  with  them  ;  and  he  then  went  and  dressed  a 
young  kid,  which  the  queen  had  for  suj)})er,  and  de- 
voured it  with  the  same  appetite  as  though  it  had  been 
the  young  queen. 

Now  was  she  exceedingly  delighted  with  this  un- 
heard of  cruelty  ;  and  she  had  invented  a  story  to  tell 
the  king  at  his  return  how  the  mad  wolves  had  eaten 
up  the  queen,  his  wife,  with  her  two  children. 


OH6  CHILDREN'S   STORIES. 

One  evening  some  time  after,  as  she  was,  according 
to  her  usual  custom,  rambUng  about  the  court  and 
yards  of  the  palace  to  see  if  she  could  smell  any  fresh 
meat,  she  heard,  in  a  ground  room,  little  Day  crying, 
for  his  mother  was  going  to  whip  him  because  he  had 
been  guilty  of  some  fault*^  and  she  heard  at  the  same 
time  little  Morning  soliciting  pardon  for  her  brother. 

The  ogress  presently  knew  the  voice  of  the  queen 
and  her  children,  and  being  quite  in  a  rage  to  think  she 
had  been  thus  deceived,  she  commanded  the  next  morn- 
ino-,  by  break  of  day,  in  a  most  terrible  voice,  whicli 
made  every  one  tremble,  that  they  should  bring  into 
the  middle  of  the  court  a  very  large  tub,  which  she 
caused  to  be  filled  with  toads,  vipers,  snakes,  and  all 
sorts  of  serpents,  in  order  to  throw  into  it  the  queen 
and  her  children,  the  clerk  of  the  kitchen,  his  wife 
and  maid  :  all  of  whom  she  had  given  orders  to  have 
brought  thither,  with  their  hands  tied  behind  them,  to 
suffer  the  vengeance  of  the  incensed  ogress. 

They  were  brought  out  accordingly,  and  the  execu- 
tioners were  going  to  throw  them  into  the  tub,  when 
the  king  fortunately  entered  the  court  in  his  carriage, 
and  asked  with  the  utmost  astonishment,  what  was 
meant  by  this  horrid  spectacle,  no  one  daring  to  tell 
him. 

When  the  ogress  saw  what  had  happened,  she  fell 
into  a  violent  passion,  and  threw  herself  head  fore- 
most into  the  tub,  and  was  instantly  devoured  by  the 
ugly  creatures  she  had  ordered  to  be  thrown  into  it  by 
others. 

The  king  could  not  but  grieve,  being  very  sorry, 
for  she  was  his  mother  ;  but  he  soon  comforted  him- 
self with  his  beautiful  wife,  and  his  two  pretty  children. 


CHILDRKNS    STOKII-.S.  tis? 

And  after  all  tliiii<>,s  wvvv  scttU-d,  he  well  rewarded 
the  clerk  of  the  kiteiieii  for  his  wisdom.  Iiimiaiiit\  .  and 
compassion. 


THE    END. 


PRINTED     BY    ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY 


ALEXANDER    GARDNER, 


PublisDer 
and  Bookseller 

Special  ilppoitititieiit 


CO 

l>er  late  majesip 
Queen  Victoria. 


Children's  Rhymes,  Games,  Songs,  and 

Stories.      By  Robkrt  Ford.     Crown  8vo.     Price  3s.  6d.  neit. 

"  If  there  is  any  more  entertaining  book  for  juveniles  who  '  want  to  know  '  than 
Mr.  Robert  Ford's  Childteiis  Rhyvus.  Children's  Games.  ChiUrens  Songs, 
Childr€7i's  Stories,  we  have  not  yet  made  its  acquaintance.  The  title  is  descriptive, 
as  few  titles  are,  of  the  unusual  range  of  the  book,  which,  be  it  said,  will  probably 
be  read  with  as  much  zest  by  '  big  folk  '  as  by  bairns.'"— C/a^i'^"'  Herald. 

"The  volume  partakes  of  the  character  both  of  a  book  of  folk-lore,  a  children's 
story  book,  and  a  book  of  humour  :  and  it  will  be  highly  appreciated  on  all  these 
grounds,  and  not  least  on  the  close  sympathy  with  the  children's  ideas,  tastes,  and 
point  of  view  which  Mr.  Ford  blends  with  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  traditional 
sports  and  rhymes,  fascinating  even  where  they  are  meaningless,  of  childhood. 
— Scots}nan. 

"This  man  Ford  has  his  heart  in  the  right  place.  He  loves  the  children,  and 
a  man  who  loves  children  is  on  the  way  to  heaven.  The  volume  is  described  on 
the  title-page  as  '  A  Book  for  Bairns  and  Big  Folk,'  and  no  better  description  of  it 
could  be  invented,  for,  while  it  must  be  interesting  to  the  young  people,  it  cannot 
fail  to  touch  chords,  perhaps  long  forgotten,  in  men  and  women  who  have  left 
their  youth  behind  them." — Daily  Record  and  Mail. 

"The  volume  is  a  perfect  mine  for  those  in  search  of  stories  about  children. 
Parents  will  find  within  its  pages  much  that  will  fascinate  and  amuse  them.' — 
Dundee  Cozirier. 

"Taken  as  a  finished  work,  it  is  well  done.     The  most  harassed  man  of  middle- 
age  will  turn  over  the  pages  with  delight  and  have  dreams  ot  half-forgi)tten  yore. 
—  GlasgoTV  Evening  Citizen. 

"  A  very  interesting  little  book,  carefully  made— a  good  one  for  students  of  folk- 
lore as  well  as  children."— ^M^«rt'«w. 

"Altogether  we  have  here  a  delightf'd  book." — Evening  Times. 


ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY. 


Scottish  Vagabond  Songs  and  Ballads. 

"     Wth  Notes  and  Music.     Edued  by  Robert  Ford.     A  New 
Erion,  in  one  Volume.     Crown  8vo.  [/«  the  Press. 

Thistledown.      A    Book    of    Scotch 

Humour,  Character,  Folk-Lore,  Story,  and  Anecdote.  New  En- 
larged, and  Illustrated  Edition.  Price  3s.  6d.  Cheap  Edition, 
iUjstraled  paper  covers,  puce  is.  nett. 

Tayside  Songs,  and  Other  Verses.     By 

Robert  Ford.    With  Portrait.    Crown  8vo.     250  pages.    3s  6d. 


nett. 


American    Humourists.      Selected  and 

Edited  by  Robert  Ford.     Crown  8vo,  3s.  6d.,  post  free. 
Edited  by   ROBERT   FORD.     Is.      Post   Free,   Is.  2d     each. 

Popular  English    Readings.      From  Sir 

F.  H.  Doyle,  G.  A.  Sala,  Samuel  K.  Cowan,  Robert  Overton, 
Tom  Hood,  Charles  Dickens,  W.  S.  Gilbert,  E.  B.  Browning, 
James  Fayn,  Wilkie  Collins,  George  R.  Sims,  Douglas  Jerrold, 
Lord  Lytton,  &c.,  &c. 

Popular     Scotch     Readings.       From 

Buchanan,  Barrie,  W.Graham,  LL.D.,  "John  Strathesk,"  Outram, 
Lochore,  "  J.  B.  Selkirk,"  Willock,  Latto,  Ford,  Professor  Aytoun, 
Rev.  David  Macrae,  &c.,  &c. 

Popular  Irish  Readings.      From  J.  Gil- 

kison,  Archibald  M'Connochie,  Father  Ryan,  Samuel  Lover, 
Charles  Lever,  J.  S.  Lefanu,  G.  Griffin,  T.  C.  Croker,  &c.,  &c. 

Popular  American  Readings.    From  T. 

C.  Harbaugh,  Bret  Harte,  Wdl  Carleton.  Sam  Davis,  "Max 
Adeler,"  "Mark  Twain."  "  Mozis  Addums,"  Col.  John  Hay, 
J.  M.  Bailey,  "Wyoming  Kit,"  Oliver  W.  Holmes,  &c.,  &c. 

The  above  also  in  one  vol.,  4s.      Post  free,  4s.  6d. 
ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY. 


Edited  by  ROBERT  FORD.  Grown  8vo.  550  Pages.  With 
Etched  Frontispiece  and  Fac-simile.  Price  7s.  6d.  ;  Large 
Paper,  15s. 

The  Harp  of  Perthshire.      A  Collection 

of  Songs  and  other  Poetical  Pieces,  many  of  which  are  Original. 
With  Notes  Explanatory,  Critical,  and  Biographical. 

"  Perthshire  men,  and  others  than  they,  will  be  grateful  to  have  all  the  varied 
stre.ims  of  song  brought  within  the  compass  of  a  single  volume.  Mr.  Ford  has 
compiled  the  book  with  evident  love  for  his  task,  and  has  been  at  pains  in  preparing 
critical  notes  on  Perthshire  poems  and  biographical  notices  of  Perthshire  poets." — 
Scotsman. 

Ballads    of    Bairnhood.      Selected    and 

Edited,  with  Notes,  by  Robert  Ford.    Uniform  with  above.    5s. 


The   Paisley  Shawl  and  the   Men  who 

Produced  It.  A  Record  of  an  Interesting  Epoch  in  the  History 
of  the  Town.  With  10  facsimile  Reproductions  in  Colours  of 
Paisley  Shawls,  and  numerous  other  Illustrations,  including  por- 
traits of  the  leading  Manufacturers  and  Public  Men  of  the  time, 
By  Matthkw  Blair,  Chairman  of  the  Incorporated  Weaving, 
Dyeing,  and  Printing  College  of  Glasgow.  Crown  4to,  .Art  Linen 
Binding,  Gilt  Top.     Price  7s.  6d.  neit. 

Schleiermacher :  Personal  and  Specula- 
tive. By  RoBK.kT  Munro,  B. D.,  Old  Kilpatrick.  Ctown  8vo. 
312  pages.      Price  4s.  6d.  nett. 

The   Weavers'  Craft ;    being  a    History 

of  the  Weavers'  Incorporation  of  Dunfermline.  By  Daniel 
Thomson.     38  Illustrations,     l-^cap.  410.     380  pp.     5s.  nett. 

Scottish     Chapbook     Literature.       By 

William  Harvey.  With  Illustrations.  Fcaj).  410.  150  i)ages. 
Price  3s.  6d.  nett. 

The  Waggon  and  the  Star.    By  Walter 

A.  Murskll.     Crown  8vo.      180  p^ges.      Price  2s.  6d.  nett.    . 
ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY. 


Lectures  on  Scottish  Literature :   Ballad 

Minstrelsy— Allan  Ramsay— Robert  Burns.  By  D.  T.  Holmes, 
B.A.,  Author  of  "  PVench  Essiys  on  British  Poets,"  "The 
Teaching  of  Modern  Languages  in  Schools  and  Colleges,"  "An 
Outline  of  French  Litefature. '     Crown  8vo.     2s.  nett. 

The   Teaching  of   Modern    Languages 

in  Sci-.ools  and  Colleges.  Adapted  from  the  French  of  Professor 
Horner  of  Fribourg.  By  D.  T.  Holmes,  B.  A.,  Assisiant-Examiner 
to  the  University  of  Londf)n  ;  author  of  "French  Essays  on 
British  Poets,"  etc.  Crown  8vo.  96  pages.  Price  2s.  nett. 
"  Deserving  of  careful  perusal  :  fresh,  suggestive,  and  evidently  founded  on  ex- 
perience. "--Sir  Joshua  Fitch,  LL.D. 

"  Teaching  by  the  living  voice,  as  here  advocated,  is  by  far  the  best  way,  and  I 
hope  it  will  i)e  niore  and  more  in  use."— Rev.  Prof.  Skeat,  LL.D.,  Cambridge. 

The    Autobiography    of    Peter    Taylor. 

With  45  illustrations  bv  Wat.  Miller.  Crown  8vo.  256  pages. 
Price  y.  6d. 

"Better  reading  than  nine  nove's  out  often." — Daily  Ae7vs. 

'•An  interesting  record  of  a  useful  and  honourable  life." — Glasgo'v  Herald. 

"  A  volume  that  affords  a  vast  amount  of  entertainment.      .      .      .      The  work  is 
a  genuine  aulcjbiography." — Glasgow  Evening  Citizen. 

"  A  book  that  for  interest  and  genuine  worth  is  equal  to  any  of  the  lines  penned 
by  Mr.  Samuel  Smiles,  is  Tlie  Autobiography  of  Peter  '1  ay  lor,  just  issued  by 
Mr.  Gardner  of  Paisle\.  It  is  the  story  of  a  self-made  man,  related  in  iio  boastful 
spirit,  but  ahoundintj  with  homely  toucties-  and  delightful  reminiscences. 
It  is  a  most  notable  littie  book,  abounding  with  capital  stories,  the  pawky  humour 
of  which  will  be  hugely  relished." — Ditndie  Conrier. 

Plain    Papers    on    Subjects    Light    and 

Gr;ive.  By  Belinda's  Husband.  Fcap.  8vo.  230  pages. 
Price  2s.  6d.  neti. 

Selections    from    the     British    Apollo ; 

containing  Answers  to  Curious  Questions  in  Literature,  Science, 
Folk-Lore,  and  Love.  Performed  by  a  Society  of  Gentlemen  in 
the  Rtrign  of  Queen  Anne.  A  Study  in  the  Evolution  of  Periodi- 
cal Literature.  Edited  by  the  late  G.  W.  Niven,  Honorary 
Secretary,  Greenock  Natural  History  Society  ;  with  Preface  by 
the  Rev.  Hugh  Macmillan,  D.D.,  LL.d!,  F.R.S.E.,  F.S.A. 
(Scot.).    Crown  8vo.    Cloth  extra.    300  pages.    Price  3s.  6d.  nett. 

Romantic     Narratives    from     Scottish 

Hi^tory  and  Tradition.  By  Robert  Scott  Fittis.  Crown  8vo. 
364  pages.     Price  6s. 


ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY. 


The  Art  of  Being  Happy.     By  the  Rev. 

Charles  A.  Hall.     Kcop.  8vo.     Prut*  is.  iieit  ;  post  free,  is.  2d. 

The   Art   of   Being    Healthy.       By  the 

Rev.  Charles  A.  Hat.l,  autiior  of  "The  An  of  Being  Happy," 
etc.      IS.  nett.      Post  free,  is.  2d. 

Jephtha:   a   Drama.       Translated    from 

the  Latin  of  George  Buch;inin.  By  A.  G(3RD0N  Mitchell, 
Minister  of  Killearn.  Illustrated  by  Jessie  M.  KinL'.  Crown  6vo. 
130  pages.      Price  3s.  6d.  neit. 

John  the  Baptist:  A  Dr-^.ma.  Trans- 
lated Ironi  I  he  Latin  of  Gf.orge  Buchanan.  By  A.  CiORDON 
Mitchell,  Minister  of  Killearn,  Translator  of  Buchanan's 
"Jei)hihes."     Crown  8vo.      3s.  6d.  nett.  \^In  the  Press. 

History  of  the   Outer    Hebrides.       By 

\Vm  C.  Mackenzie.  With  a  Chapter  on  the  Physical  Features 
and  Natural  His'ory  of  the  Group,  by  Rev.  \Vm.  Morrison,  of 
Carr-Bridge.  Price  12s.  6d.  nett;  al;>o  100  copies  on  superior 
paper,  leather  back,  gvlt  top,  price  21s.  nett. 

M'Kerhe,  P.  H.— History  of  the  Lands 
and   their   Owners  in   Galloway,   with  Historical 

Sketches  of  the  District.  By  the  late  P.  H.  M'Kerlie,  F.S.A. 
Scot.,  F.R.G.S.,  etc.  WIGTOWNSHIRE.  Illusiraiions.  Demy 
8v().  500  pages  each  volume.  A  New  Edition,  entirely 
re-written.  \^ln  the  Press. 

Two  Parish  Histories.    Uniform  with  "  Historical  and  Archaeological 

Ccjllections  relating  to  Renlrewshire." 

Kilbarchan    Parish,     History    of       By 

Robert  D.  Mackenzie,  Minister  of  the  Parish.  Numerous 
Illustrations.  Demy  4t(),  21s.  nett.  Large  Paper,  Royal  4to, 
35s.  nett. 

Notes  on  the   Ecclesiastical  Antiquities 

of  Eastwood  Parish.  By  the  Rev.  George  Campbell,  Minister 
of  the  Parish.  Demy  410,  12s.  6d.  nett.  Large  Paper,  Royal 
4to,  25s.  nett. 

ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY. 


Charters  and  Documents  relating  to  the 

Burgh  of  Paisley,  with  Extracts  from  the  Town  Council  Records. 
By  \V.  M.  Metcalfe,  D.D.    Crown  410.     21s.  nett. 

History    of    the    Church    in    Scotland. 

By  Rtrv.  John  Macpherson,  M.A.  Demy  8vo.  Cloth  Extra. 
450  Pages.      Price  7s.  6d. 

"  It  is  a  carefully  executed  work,  comprehensive  in  the  best  sense,  and  bringing 
the  story  down  to  the  great  act  of  union  which  was  celebraied  in  October  last, 
when  the  United  Presbyterian  and  the  Free  Churches  became  one  United  Free 
Church  of  ScoMan<i.  Mr.  Macpherson  has  put  much  conscientious  labour  into  the 
making  of  this  volume,  in  which  a  large  historical  literature  is  admirably  digested. 
The  generous  spirit  of  the  wriier  should  secure  a  wide  acceptance  of  the  book  in 
all  circles  in  Scotland  and  out."— 77/^  Christian. 

"  This  large  and  handsome  volume  aims  at  giving  a  comprehensive  account  of 
ecclesiastical  and  religious  movements  in  Scotland  from  the  original  plnnting  of 
Christianity  down  to  the  close  of  the  nineteenth  century.  To  this  great  task  the 
author  has  brought  adequate  knowledge,  sound  judgment  and  conspicuf)Us  lairness. 
His  style,  while  always  lucid,  is  yet  sufficiently  graphic  and  forceful.  This  great 
work  supplies  a  long-felt  want,  and  should  have  a  large  sale.  The  pul)li>her  has 
done  his  part  admirably." — Primiiive  Methodist. 

Memoir   of  James    Hogg,    the    Ettrick 

Shepherd.  By  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Garden.  A  New  Edition. 
Enlarged.  Edited  by  Sir  George  Douglas,  Bart.  With  Portrait. 
Large  Crown  8vo.      Price  5  s. 

Paisley  Characters  :  Military  and  Other- 
wise. By  Rev.  James  Cunningham,.  M.A.  (John  Gilroy). 
Crown  8vo.  265  pages.  With  Frontispiece.  Price  3s.  6d.  nett. 
"The  characters  sketched  by  Mr.  Gilroy  are  indeed  remarkable,  and  his  book  is 

more  valuable  than  scores  of  novels.      'A  Captive  of  His  Bow  and    Spenr'   is   a 

charming  luve-story." — Glasgo7v  Herald. 

Only  150  Copies   Printed  for  Private  Sale. 

Scodand  Sixty  Years  Ago  ;  a   Series  of 

Thirty-two  Fine  Co[)perplate  Etchiniis  of  the    Chief  Towns  of 

Scotland  and  their  Surroundings.     In  One  Magnificent  Double 

Super-Royal    Folio    Volume,    Half-bound.       Printed    on    Finest 

Plate  Paper.      Price  £t^  5s.  to  Subscribers. 

List  of  Plates.— Glasgow,  Aberdeen,  Aberdeen  (from  the  South), 

Cromarty,    Falkirk,    Uumbarion,    Forfar,     Gretna    Green,    Dunkeld, 

Greenock,  Hamilton,    Dingwall,   Inverness,  Jedburgh,  Renfrew,  Tain, 

Edinburgh.  Elgin,  Dundee,  Lanark,  Inveraray,  Montrose,  Linlithgow, 

Melrose,    Peebles,    Perth,     Port-Glasgow,    Peterhead,     St.    Andrews, 

Stirling,  Rothesay,  Paisley. 


ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY. 


Practical     First     Aid.         By     William 

RoBER'isoN,  M.D.,  D.P.H.,  Lecturer  to  the  St.  Andrew  and 
St.  John  Ambulance  Associations.  40  lUu^^trations.  'I'hird 
Edition,      is.  6d.  nett. 

The   Flywheel  :    and  What    Keeps    Us 

Steady.  By  the  Rev.  Peter  Anton,  author  of  "  Masters  in 
History,"  ftc.  Crown  8vo.  Cloth.  With  Portrait.  260  pages. 
Price  3s.  6d.  net. 

Thoughts  for  Book  Lovers.    By  Harry 

S.  LuMSDEN.  Fcap.  8vo.  Ilhi^trated.  Frontispiece  176  pp. 
2s.  nett. 

Pinkerton's  Lives  of  the  Scottish  Saints. 

Revised  and  Enlarged  by  W.  M.  Metcalfe,  D.D.  Two  Vols. 
Demy  8vo.      Price  15s.  per  Volume.     Very  limited  impression. 

Ancient    Lives   of  the   Scottish   Saints. 

Translated  bv  W.  M.  Metcalfe,  D.D.  Detny  8vo.  Price  15s; 
on  AVhatman's  Paper,  25s.     Very  limited  impression. 

SS.  Ninian  and   Machor — the  Legends 

of,  in  the  Scottish  Dialect  of  the  Fourteenth  Century.  Revised 
Text,  with  Introduction,  Notes,  Glossarial  Index,  and  Appendices 
containing  Translations  of  S.  Ailred's  Life  of  S.  Niman  and 
O'Donell's  Account  of  S.  Machor,  by  W.  M.  Metcalfe,  D.D. 
Fery  Limited  Issue.  [_In  the  Press. 

A    Popular    History   of  the    Highlands 

and  Gaelic  Scotland  from  the  Earliest  Times  till  the  Close  of  the 
Forty-Five.  By  Dugald  Mitchell,  M.D.,  J. P.  Demy  8vo. 
Cloth  extra,  gilt  top.  708  pages.  With  3  Maps  and  Frontispiece. 
I2S.  6d.  nett. 

"Dr.  Mitchell  has  undoubtedly  fulfilled  his  own  ambition,  and  pro- 
duced the  best  and  handiest  history  of  the  Highlands  that  has  ever 
seen  the  light.  .  .  .  He  is  not  given  to  wild  theories.  He  repre- 
sents the  Highlands  and  the  Highlanders  as  they  actually  seem  to 
him,  not  as  he  would  like  them  to  ^e.^'—Spectator. 

Life  in  Scotland  a  Hundred  Years  Ago. 

By  Rev.  James  Murray,  M.A.,  author  of  "  Kihiiacolm  :  a 
Parish  History."     Crown  8vo.     Cloth.      290  pages.     5s.  nett. 

ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY. 


Complete,  in  Four  Volumes. 

Extra  Crown  8vo,  Cloth  extra,  full  oilt  Celtic  design  on  side,  gilt  top, 

Price  IS.  6d.  each,  post  free.      With  numerous  Illustrations. 

Popular  Tales  of  the  West  Higrhlands. 

Orally  Collected,  with  a  Translation  By  the  late  J.  F.  Campbell, 
Tslay. 

The  Land  o'  Cakes  and  Brither  Scots; 

or,  Scotland  and  Things  Scottish.  By  Rev.  T.  B.  Johnstone, 
D.D.      Demy  Svo.     Cloth.      286  pages.     6s. 

IN  4  VOLUMES.      500  PAGES  EACH. 

The  Editions  are — 

1.  The  Ordinary  Edition,  in  Demy  Octavo.     £6,  4s. 

2.  The  Same  Edition,  in  Half-crimson  Calf  Extra.     £^  5s. 

3.  The  Large  Paper  Edition,  in   Royal  8vo,   Roxburgh  Rinding.     £(>  6s. 

The  History  of  Civilisation  in  Scotland. 

By  John  Mackintosh,  LL.D. 

'•  The  book  has  already  taken  a  definite  place  as  a  monument  of 
learning  and  patient  patriotic  industry."--G/asgfOM;  Herald. 

Curious   Episodes  in   Scottish    History, 

By  R.  Scott  Fittis.     Crown  8vo.     330  pages.     6s.     Post  Fiee. 

Heroines    of    Scotland.        By    Robert 

Scott  Fittis,  Author  of  "  Ecclesiastical  Annals  of  Perth,"  etc. 
Crown  Svo,  cloth,  350  pages.     Price  6s. 

The   New  Testament   in    Braid   Scots. 

Rendered   by   Rev.   William  Wye  Smith.      Demy  Svo.     New 

Edition.     Price  6s.  nett. 
"  One  has  only  praise,  and  that  of  the  heariiestj  for  the  sense  of  patriotism  and 
the  religious  devotion  that  prompted  the  book,  and   for  the  spiritual  insight  ot 
many  oi  the  little  notes  and  comments  that  are  appended  at  the  foot  of  its  pages." 
— Scotsman. 

The    History    of   Old    Cumnock.      By 

the  Rev.  John  Warrick,  M.A.,  Free  Church,  Old  Cumnock. 
With  a  Map  and  16  Illustrations.  Small  4to,  Cloth  Extra. 
382  pages.     Price  7s.  6d.  nett. 

ALEXANDER    GARDNER,    PAISLEY.     ^  t$\ 


MAY   1  0    1945 


