This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


atjhttp  :  //books  .  qooqle  .  com/ 


#v  V 


\    4 


/\ 


T-v 


£#>/  •S'lf 


iu2£ 

~ 

1 — 

p 

u^J-^J 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


THE  CHINESE  CLASSICS. 

VOL.  I. 

CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS,  THE  GREAT  LEARNING,   AND 
THE  DOCTRINE  OP  THE  MEAN. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


*!*>>  VX  W  >T* 

^   §>  i  m  m  n 

Z,0  m    m.  w  %  % 

Mbkcius,  V.  Pt.  II.  iy.  2. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


THE 


CHINESE  CLASSICS: 


WITH 


A  TRANSLATION,  CRITICAL  AND  EXEGETICAL  NOTES, 
PROLEGOMENA,  AND  COPIOUS  INDEXES. 


BX 

JAMES   LEGGE,   D.D., 

Or  THB  LOHDOM  KIMIOXABT  iOCIBTT. 


IN  SEVEN  VOLUMES. 


VOL.  I., 

ooRimxe 


,      •  SI  '        '  '' 

CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS,  THE  GREAT  LEARNING,  AND 
THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


HONGKONG:  AT  THE  AUTHOR'S. 
LONDON;  TEUBNEE  &  CO.,  60,  PATERNOSTEE  EOW. 

1861. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


£  5  3  £J 


HONGKONG : 

PaWTW>  AT  Til  LOXDOV  MlMIOlUBY  Socixn's 

PBDfTING  OmCB. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


9lw  7f_ 


L5 

v./ 
MA/A/ 


Lf/3 

7V/ 


TO  THE  MEMORY 


OF 


THE  HON.  JOSEPH  JARDINE,  ESQ., 

BY  WHOSE  MUNIFICENT  ASSISTANCE  IT  IS  NOW  PUBLISHED, 
AND  BUT  FOB  WHICH    IT   MIGHT  NEVER  HAVE  BEEN   PUBLISHED, 

Cttt*  H&Offc  t*  inomoeti. 


807 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


PREFACE. 


The  author  arrived  in  the  East  as  a  Missionary  towards  the  end 
of  1839,  and  was  stationed  at  Malacca  for  between  three  and  four 
years.  Before  leaving  England,  he  had  enjoyed  the  benefit  of  a  few 
months'  instruction  in  Chinese  from  the  late  Professor  Kidd  at  tho 
University  of  London,  and  was  able  in  the  beginning  of  1840  to 
commence  the  study  of  the  first  of  the  Works  in  the  present  publi- 
cation. It  seemed  to  him  then — and  the  experience  of  one  and 
twenty  years  gives  its  sanction  to  the  correctness  of  the  judgment — 
that  he  should  not  be  able  to  consider  himself  qualified  for  tho 
duties  of  his  position,  until  he  had  thoroughly  mastered  the  Classical 
Books  of  the  Chinese,  and  had  investigated  for  himself  the  whole 
field  of  thought  through  which  the  sages  of  China  had  ranged,  and 
in  which  were  to  be  found  the  foundations  of  the  moral,  social,  and 
political  life  of  the  people.  Under  this  conviction  he  addressed 
himself  eagerly  to  the  reading  of  the  Confucian  Analects,  and  pro- 
ceeded  from  them  to  the  other  Works.  Circumstances  occurred  in 
the  Mission  at  Malacca  to  throw  various  engagements  upon  him, 
which  left  him  little  time  to  spend  at  his  books,  and  he  consequently 
sought  about  for  all  the  assistance  which  he  could  find  from  the 
labours  of  men  who  had  gone  before. 

In  this  respect  he  was  favourably  situated,  the  charge  of  the 
Anglo-Chinese  College  having  devolved  upon  him,  so  that  he  had 
free  access  to  all  the  treasures  in  its  Library.  He  had  translations  and 
dictionaries  in  abundance,  and  they  facilitated  his  progress.  Yet  ho 
desiderated  some  Work  upon  the  Classics,  more  critical,  more  full 
and  exact,  tharf  any  which  he  had  the  opportunity  of  consulting, 


Vlll  PREFACE. 

and  he  sketched  to  himself  the  plan  of  its  execution.  This  was  dis- 
tinctly before  him  in  1841,  and  for  several  years  he  hoped  to  hear 
that  some  experienced  Chinese  scholar  was  preparing  to  give  to  the 
public  something  of  the  kind.  4s  time  went  on,  and  he  began  to  feel 
assured  as  to  his  own  progress  in  the  language,  it  occurred  to  him 
that  he  might  venture  on  such  an  undertaking  himself.  He  studied, 
wrote  out  translations,  and  made  notes,  with  the  project  in  his  mind. 
He  hopes  he  can  say  that  it  did  not  divert  him  from  the  usual  active 
labours  of  a  Missionary  in  preaching  and  teaching,  but  it  did  not 
allow  him  to  rest  satisfied  in  any  operations  of  the  time  then  being. 

In  1856,  he  first  talked  with  some  of  his  friends  about  his  purpose, 
and  among  them  was  the  Rev.  Josiah  Cox,  of  the  Weslevan  Mission- 
ary  Society.  The  question  of  the  expense  of  publication  came 
up.  The  authors  idea  was  that  by-and-by  he  wpuld  be  able  to 
digest  his  materials  in  readiness  for  the  press,  and  that  then  he 
would  be  likely,  on  application,  to  meet  with  such  encouragement 
from  the  British  and  other  foreign  merchants  in  China,  as  would 
enable  him  to  go  forward  with  his  plan.  Mr.  Cox,  soon  after,  with- 
out the  slightest  intimation  of  his  intention,  mentioned  the  whole 
matter  to  his  friend,  Mr.  Joseph  Jardine.  In  consequence  of  what 
he  reported  of  Mr.  Jardine  s  sentiments,  the  author  had  an  interview 
with  that  gentleman,  when  he  very  generously  undertook  to  bear 
the  expense  of  carrying  the  Work  through  the  press.  His  lamented 
death  leaves  the  author  at  liberty  to  speak  more  freely  on  this  point 
than  he  would  otherwise  have  done.  Mr.  Jardine  expressed  himself 
favourably  of  the  plan,  and  said,  UI  know  the  liberality  of  the 
merchants  in  China,  and  that  many  of  them  would  readily  give  their 
help  to  such  an  undertaking,  but  you  need  not  have  the  trouble  of 
canvassing  the  community.  If  you  are  prepared  for  the  toil  of  the 
publication,  I  will  bear  the  expense  of  it.  We  make  our  money  in 
China,  and  we  should  be  glad  to  assist  in  whatever  promises  to  be  of 
benefit  to  it." 

The  author  could  not  but  be  grateful  to  Mr.  Jardine  for  his 
proffer,  nor  did  he  hesitate  to  accept  it.  The  interruption  of  mission- 
ary labours,  consequent  on  the  breaking  out  of  hostilities  in  the 
end  of  1856,  was  favourable  to  retired  and  literary  work,  and 
he  immediately  set  about  preparing  some  of  his  materials  for  the 
press.     A  necessary  visit  to  England  in  1857,  which  kept  him  absent 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


PREFACE.  IX 

from  tlie  Colony  for  eighteen  months,  proved  a  serious  interrup- 
tion, but  the  first-fruits  of  his  labours  are  now  in  a  state  to  be 
presented  to  the  public. 

The  first  conception  of  the  present  work  and  the  circumstances 
under  which  it  is  published  have  thus  been  detailed.  Of  the  style 
and  manner  of  its  execution  it  is  for  others  to  judge.  It  origi- 
nated in  the  authors  feeling  of  his  own  wants.  He  has  translated, 
annotated,  and  reasoned,  always  in  the  first  place  to  satisfy  himself. 
He  hopes  that  the  volumes  will  be  of  real  service  to  Missionaries 
and  other  students  of  the  Chinese  language  and  literature.  They 
have  been  foremost  in  his  mind  as  those  whom  he  wished  to  benefit. 
But  he  has  thought  also  of  the  general  reader.  The  Chinese  is  the 
largest  family  of  mankind.  Thoughtful  minds  in  other  parts  of  the 
world  cannot  but  be  anxious  to  know  what  the  minds  of  this  many- 
millioned  people  have  had  to  live  upon  for  thousands  of  years. 
The  Work  will  enable  them  to  draw  their  own  conclusions  on  the 
subject  The  author  will  give  his  views  on  the  scope  and  value  of 
their  contents  in  his  prolegomena  to  the  several  volumes.  Some 
will  agree  with  his  opinions,  and  others  will  probably  differ  from 
them.  He  only  hopes  that  he  will  be  found  to  advance  no  judg- 
ment for  which  he  does  not  render  a  reason.  To  think  freely  and  for 
himself  is  a  source  to  him  of  much  happiness;  his  object  is  to  supply 
to  others  the  means  of  realizing  the  same  for  themselves,  so  far  as 
the  subjects  here  investigated  are  coucerned.  He  hopes  also  that  the 
time  is  not  very  remote,  when  among  the  Chinese  themselves  there 
will  be  found  many  men  of  intelligence,  able  and  willing  to  read  with- 
out prejudice  what  he  may  say  about  the  teachings  of  their  sages. 

The  title-page  says  that  the  Work  will  be  in  seven  volumes, — 
two,  that  is,  for  the  Four  Books,  and  one  for  each  of  the  Five  King. 
It  will  be  necessary,  however,  from  their  size,  to  publish  more  than 
one  of  the  latter  in  two  or  more  parts,  so  that  to  the  eye  the 
Work  will  present  the  appearance  perhaps  of  ten  volumes.  Should 
life  and  health  be  spared,  the  author  would  like  to  give  a  supple- 
mentary volume  or  two,  so  as  to  embrace  all  the  Books  in  "  The 
Thirteen  King."  The  second  volume  is  two-thirds  printed,  and  will 
appear,  God  willing,  before  the  end  of  the  present  year  He  must  then 
be  permitted  to  rest  for  a  time,  before  proceeding  with  the  Shoo- 
kinjr  or  The  Book  of  Historv.     His  directlv   missionarv    labours 

°  "  "  Digitized  by  GOOgle 


X  PREFACE. 

are  the  chief  business  of  his  life,  and  require  of  course  his  chhf 
attention.  The  fact  that  the  Work  is  inscribed  to  the  memory  of  Mr. 
Jardine  impresses  him  deeply  with  the  frailty  of  life  and  the  uncer- 
tainty of  all  human  plans.  While  he  has  been  putting  the  finish- 
ing hand  to  this  first  volume,  the  same  solemn  truth  has  been  still 
more  realizingly  forced  upon  him  by  the  news  of  the  death  of  his 
own  eldest  brother,  the  thought  of  giving  pleasure  to  whom  by  the 
publication  was  one  of  the  greatest  stimuli  under  the  toil  of  its  pre- 
paration. Whether  he  shall  be  permitted  to  accomplish  what  he 
contemplates,  the  future  alone  can  determine. 

It  would  have  been  an  easy  matter  to  swell  the  volume  now 
presented  to  double  the  size.  In  the  Chinese  Commentators  he  had 
abundant  materials  to  do  so;  but  the  authors  object  has  been  to 
condense  rather  than  expand.  He  has  not  sought  to  follow  Choo  He 
or  any  other  authority.  The  text,  and  not  the  commentary,  has 
been  his  study.  He  has  read  the  varying  views  of  scholars  exten- 
sively, but  only  that  he  might  the  better  understand  what  was 
written  in  the  Book.  He  has  also  consulted  the  renderings  of  other 
translators,  but  never  till  he  had  made  his  own.  He  may  have 
sometimes  altered  his  own  to  adopt  a  happier  expression  from  them, 
but  the  translation  is  independent.  He  has  not  made  frequent 
Inention  in  his  notes  of  the  labours  of  other  scholars, — not  because  he 
undervalues  them)  but  because  there  wras  no  necessity  to  call  atten- 
tion to  the  circumstance,  where  he  agreed  with  them,  and  where  he 
differed,  he  thought  it  more  seemly  to  avoid  "doubtful  disputations/1 

In  expressing  the  sounds  of  proper  names,  the  author  has  follow- 
ed the  orthography  of  Morrison  and  Medhurst;  and  in  the  index 
of  Chinese  characters  he  has  given,  in  addition,  that  of  Mr.  Wade, 
taken  from  his  "  Peking  Syllabary."  Yet  he  is  afraid  that  Mr. 
Wade  may  find  some  characters  incorrectly  represented,  as  the 
author  could  only  fix  their  pronunciation  by  the  analogy  of  others. 
It  may  seem  strange  also  to  some  scholars,  that  where  he  has  spoken 
in  the  notes  of  the  tones  of  characters,  he  has  assumed  that  in  the 
Court  dialect  there  are  eight  tones  in  the  same  way  as  in  the  dia- 
lect of  Canton  Province.  The  author  has  not  paid  sufficient  atten- 
tion to  the  Court  dialect  to  justify  his  speaking  on  this  point  with 
positiveness.  If  K'ang-he's  dictionary  were  to  determine  the  ques- 
tion, it  could  be  shown  that  a  distinction  of  "upper"  and  "lower" 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


PREFACE.  XI 

is  made  in  all  the  tones,  and  not  in  the  first  or  "  even  "  one  only. 
The  author,  moreover,  has  fancied  that  he  could  detect  that  distinc- 
tion in  the  pronunciation  of  teachers  of  the  Court  dialect.  On  this 
subject,  however,  he  speaks  with  submission. 

There  are  many  deficiencies  in  the  present  volume  in  point  of 
typographical  execution,  for  which  the  author  ventures  to  ask  the 
indulgence  of  the  reader.  The  only  workmen  employed  upon  it 
have  been  Chinese.  He  is  under  great  obligation  to  his  excellent 
friend,  Mr.  Hwang  Shing,  the  superintendent  of  the  Mission  Printing 
Office;  but  well-skilled  as  he  is  in  the  English  language,  he  could 
not  perform  the  duties  of  proof-reader.  The  work  of  correction  has 
mainly  devolved  on  the  author  himself  or  members  of  his  family,  and 
has  been  done  when  the  mind  was  otherwise  occupied,  or  amid  con- 
stant interruptions.  The  errors  would  have  been  much  more  nume- 
rous than  they  are  but  for  the  great  kindness  of  Mr.  Jeffrey,  formerly 
of  the  "  China  Mail "  Office,  who  has  read  nearly  all  the  sheets  before 
their  finally  going  to  press.  To  Mr.  Low,  of  the  same  Office,  and 
latterly  to  Mr.  Dixson,  the  proprietor  of  the  "  China  Mail,"  the  author 
is  glad  to  take  this  opportunity  of  expressing  his  thanks  for  their 
advice  and  help  in  many  typographical  matters.  The  more  serious 
mistakes  will  be  found  corrected,  it  is  hoped,  in  the  subjoined  lists. 
For  others  of  smaller  importance  the  circumstances  just  mentioned 
may  form  some  apology ;  and  where  the  sound  of  a  Chinese  character 
may  in  a  few  instances  have  been  represented  somewhat  incorrectly, 
the  character  itself  in  a  foot-note,  or  its  sound  in  the  7th  Index, 
will  supply  the  necessary  correction.  The  author  has  likewise  to 
thank  his  friend,  and  former  colleague  in  the  Mission  at  Hongkong, 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Chalmers,  for  the  compilation  of  the  indexes  of  Subjects 
and  Proper  Names. 


Hongkong,  26th  March  1861. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONTENTS. 


I.    THE  PROLEGOMENA. 

CHAPTER  L 

OF  THE  CHINESE  CLASSICS  GENERALLY. 
SECTION  PAGE 

I.  Books  included  under  the  name  of  the  Chinese  Classics, 1 

II.  TJie  Authority  of  the  Chinese  Classics, 3 


CHAPTER  H. 

OF  TIIE  CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 

I.  Formation  of  the  Text  of  the  Analects  by  the  Scholars  of  the  Han  dynasty ]2 

IT.  At  what  time,  and  by  whom,  the  Analects  were  written;  their  Plan;  and  Authen- 
ticity,    u 

III.  Of  Commentaries  upon  the  Analects, IS 

IV.  Of  Various  Readings, 21 


CHAPTER  HI. 

OF  THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 

I.  History  of  the  Text,  and  the  different  Arrangements  of  it  which  have  been  proposed,  22 

II.  Of  the" Authorship,  and  distinction  of  the  text  into  Classical  Text  and  Commentary,  s»is 

III.  Its  Scope  and  Value, 27 


CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 

I.  Its  place  in  the  Le  Ke,  and  its  Publication  separately, 3."> 

II*  Its  Author,  End  some  account  of  him, 3(» 

HI.  Hs  Integrity 43 

IV.  Its  Scope  and  Value,        44 


CHAPTER  V. 

CONFUCIUS  AND  HI8  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLES. 

I.  Life  of  Confucius,       56 

II.  His  Influence  and  Opinions,        «.<> 

EL  His  Immediate  Disciples,     • lis 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


ERRATA. 


Xlil 


CHAPTER  VI. 


tIST  OF  THE  FRDCCIPAL  WORKS  WHICH  HAVE  BEEN  CONSULTED  IN  THE  PREPARATION 

OF  THIS  VOLUME. 


I.  Chinese  Works,  with  brief  notices, .., 
II.  Translations  and  other  Works,  ... 


II.    THE  BODY  OF  THE  VOLUME. 


I.  Confucian  Analects,    ... 
II.  The  Great  Learning, 
HI.  The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean, 


PACE 

129 
135 


1 
214 
246 


III.    INDEXES. 


I.  Subjects  in  the  Confucian  Analects, 
II.  Proper  Names  in  the  Confucian  Analects,... 

III.  Subjects  in  the  Great  Learning 

IV.  Proper  Name*  in  the  Great  Learning 

V.  Subjects  in  the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,     ... 
VI.  Proper  Names  in  the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean, 
VII.  Chinese  Characters  and  Phrases, 


299 
306 
310 
311 
311 
313 
314 


ERRATA. 


I.     IN  THE  CHINE8B  TEXT. 


Page. 
3, 
21, 
70, 
92, 
101, 
114, 
116, 

n 

130, 
142, 
143, 
IS], 


Column, 
2, 
1, 
». 
4, 
2, 
5, 
2, 
6, 
10, 
10, 
3, 
7, 


for  K    read  ■f~*. 
H  is  inverted. 

transpose  yH  ~kp. 


for  H§  read 


E 


A 


for  j 


pf  is  inverted, 
read  j^. 

n  »  u- 


Page. 
185, 

199, 

228, 

230, 

237, 

266, 

273, 

283, 

285, 

290, 

295, 


Column, 
9, 
5, 
8, 
4, 
», 
1, 
6, 
2, 
2, 
4, 
4, 


Z 


ft 


*  -  ± 

transpose  pfa  ^jfk. 

for^j,   read   gj|. 

after  4S  insert  gj|£. 

for  PJ   read    (J. 


Paob  11,  between  the  6th  and  7th  Columns,  for  j^j    read 

»       25» w      >»    » >  »  <&&    Zl 

»       26, 1st  and  2d ,  „       """.  ' 

w        » 4th  and  5th ,for  —  read  ""V 

n       75, 3d  and  4th ,by  fifr  insert  ^^  'fffi 

„      116, 6th  and  7th ,  after  ^      „      —  ffi 

»      258, 3d  and  4th ,for  ^  read  ^ 

293» »  »  » i » i  »      py 


Digitizedby  G00gle 


XIV. 


EltKATA. 


II.      CHINESE  CHARACTERS  IN  THE  NOTES. 


Page. 

3, 

7, 

49, 

52, 

88, 

102, 

117, 

138, 

Ml, 

152, 

160, 

178, 


Line. 
29, 

10, 
1, 
3, 
6, 
9, 
6, 
2, 
3, 
*, 
2, 

16, 


Column. 

u., 


II, 


I., 
IL, 


for  tJt  read  S». 
ft 


»  7C 


-a 


# 


SI- 

& 
it 


Page. 
182, 

193, 

197, 

207, 

227, 

250, 

257, 

264, 

269, 

293, 

294, 


Line. 
22, 

2, 

4, 

1, 

10, 

12, 

3, 

12, 

18, 

15, 

C 

4, 


Column. 

i., 


for  ^  read  (J  ^J 


H. 


"«*•  »  j?j    » 


I., 


II., 


ft    - 


v®  «     #§ 


J© 


^. 


UI.     IN  THE  PROLEGOMENA. 


Page.    Line. 

2,        24,  for  Kuh  Leang-ch'ih 

read    Kuh- lean g  ChHh. 

4,  6,  for  4 „    6. 

10,        24,    „    Lcang    „       Lew. 

15,        15,    „    490...    „ 430. 


Page.  Line. 

20,        11,  for  P*ing      read      Ping. 

40,  34,    „    transpose  „   K'ung  and  Sung. 

67,        14,    „    who  „     which. 

85,        15,    „    ages  „        sages. 


1,  3,  for  pleasant      read  ...  delightful. 

130,  5,    „  government    „     governments, 

155,  6,  refer  to  char.  JSL  Index  vii. 

183,  1,  for  hing  read    shing. 

201,         9,    „    nobody         „    nobody. 


IV.      IN  THE  TRANSLATION  AND  NOTES, 

26, 


166, 
269, 
271, 


17,coUL, 
18,  „  „ 
26,  „     L, 

6,   „     I., 
23,   „   IL, 


for  540  read 

„    heap  „    . 
„    ships  „... 


.     642. 

.       pa. 

HAND. 

.  slips. 


„    Not,  Lin,  Sin, 

read  Net.  Lw*  &«. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


PROLEGOMENA. 


CHAPTER L 

OF  THE  CHINESE  CLASSICS  GENERALLY. 
SECTION  I. 

BOOKS   INCLUDED   UNDER  THE   NAME   OP  THE   CHINESE   CLASSICS. 

1.  The  Books  now  recognized  as  of  highest  authority  in  China 
tre  comprehended  under  the  denominations  of  "The  five  King"i 
and  "The  four  Shoo."2  The  term  King  is  of  textile  origin,  and 
signifies  the  warp  threads  of  a  web,  and  their  adjustment.  An  easy 
application  of  it  is  to  denote  what  is  regular  and  insures  regularity. 
As  used  with  reference  to  books,  it  indicates  their  authority  on  the 
subjects  of  which  they  treat.  "  The  five  King  "  are  the  five  canonical 
Works,  containing  the  truth  upon  the  highest  subjects  from  the 
sages  of  China,  and  which  should  be  received  as  law  by  all  genera- 
tions.    The  term  Shoo  simply  means  Writings  or  Books. 

2.  The  five  King  are: — the  Yih*  or,  as  it  has  been  styled,  "The 
Book  of  Changes ;"  the  Slwo*  or  "  The  Book  of  History ;"  the  She* 
or  "The  Book  of  Poetry ;"  the  Le  Ke,6  or  "  Record  of  Rites ;"  and 
the  Ch'un  Ts'ew,7  or  "Spring  and  Autumn,"  a  chronicle  of  events, 
extending  from  721  to  480,  B.C.  The  authorship,  or  compilation 
rather,  of  all  these  works  is  loosely  attributed  to  Confucius.  But 
much  of  the  Le  Ke  is  from  later  hands.  Of  the  Yih,  the  Shoo,  and  the 
She,  it  is  only  in  the  first  that  we  find  additions  from  the  philoso- 
pher himself,  in  the  shape  of  appendixes.  The  Ch'un  Ts'ew  is  the 
only  one  of  the  five  King  which  can  rightly  be  described  as  of  his 
own  "  making." 


o* 


£«•  20#-  *%®.  «#«•  6i#&  6Hie-  *#*• 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


fkoleoomewa.]  THE    CHINESE   CLASSICS   GENERALLY.  [en.  l 

"  The  four  Books  "  is  an  abbreviation  for  "  The  Books  of  the  four 
Philosophers."  8  The  first  is  the  Lun  Yu,9  or  u  Digested  Conversa- 
tions," being  occupied  chiefly  with  tlie  sayings  of  Confucius.  He 
is  the  philosopher  to  whom  it  belongs.  It  appears  in  this  Work 
under  the  title  of  "  Confucian  Analects."  The  second  is  the  Ta 
He5,10  or  "Great  Learning,"  now  commonly  attributed  to  Tsang 
Sin,11  a  disciple  of  the  sage.  He  is  the  philosopher  of  it.  The  third 
is  the  Chung  Yung,12  or  u  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,"  ascribed  to  K'ung 
Keih,13  the  grandson  of  Confucius.  He  is  the  philosopher  of  it 
The  fourth  contains  the  works  of  Mencius. 

3.  This  arrangement  of  the  Classical  Books,  which  is  commonly 
supposed  to  have  originated  with  tlu  scholars  of  the  Sung  dynasty,  is 
defective.  The  Great  Learning  and  the  Doctrine  of  tlie  Mean  are 
both  found  in  the  Record  of  Rites,  being  the  forty-second  and  thirty- 
first  Books  respectively  of  that  compilation,  according  to  the  usual 
arrangement  of  it. 

4.  The  oldest  enumerations  of  the  Classical  Books  specify  only  the 
five  King.  The  Yd  Ke,  or  "  Record  of  Music,"14  the  remains  of  which 
bow  form  one  of  the  Books  in  the  Le  Ke,  was  sometimes  added  to 
those,  making  wTith  them  the  six  King.  A  division  was  also  made  into 
nine  King,  consisting  of  the  Yih,  the  She,  the  Shoo,  the  Chow  Le,15 
or  "  Ritual  of  Chow,"  the  E  Le,16  or  "Ceremonial  Usages,"  the  Le 
Ke,  and  the  three  annotated  editions  of  the  Ch'un  IVew,17  by  Tso- 
k'ew  Ming,18  Kung-yang  Kaou,19  and  Kuh  Leang-ch'ih.20  In  the 
famous  compilation  of  the  classical  Books,  undertaken  by  order  of 
T'ae-tsung,  the  second  emperor  of  the  T'ang  dynasty  (b.c.  G27- 
649),  and  which  appeared  in  the  reign  of  his  successor,  there  are 
thirteen  King ;  viz.,  the  Yih,  the  She,  the  Shoo,  the  three  editions  of 
the  Ch'un  Ts'ew,  the  Le  Ke,  the  Chow  Le,  the  E  Le,  the  Confucian 
Analects,  the  Urh  Ya,21  a  sort  of  ancient  dictionary,  the  Ileaou 
King,22  or  "  Classic  of  Filial  Piety,"  and  the  works  of  Mencius. 

5.  A  distinction,  however,  was  made  among  the  Works  thus 
comprehended  under  the  same  common  name,  and  Mencius,  the 
Lun  Yu,  the  Ta  Heo,  the  Chung  Yung,  and  the  Ileaou  King  were 
spoken  of  as  the  seaou  King,  or  u  smaller  Classics."    It  thus  appears, 

80f^#  *mm-  ***■  »t#. i2  *m-  i3?i#- 

*1*§B-  "Jtfifr  Mil/If  17#f*EEf#  "£J£W-  ™&4 


* 


mct  n.]  AUTHORITY   OF   THE    CHINESE   CLASSICS.  [prolmom*xa 

contrary  to  the  ordinary  opinion  on  the  subject,  that  the  T«  He5 
and  Chung  Yung  had  been  published  as  separate  treatises  before 
the  Sung  dynasty,  and  that  the  Four  Books,  as  distinguished  from 
the  greater  King,  had  also  previously  found  a  place  in  the  literature 
of  China.23 


SECTION  II. 

THE   AUTHORITY   OF   THE    CHINESE    CLASSICS. 

1.  This  subject  will  be  discussed  in  connection  with  each  separate 
Work,  and  it  is  only  designed  here  to  exhibit  generally  the  evidence 
on  which  the  Chinese  Classics  claim  to  be  received  as  genuine  pro- 
ductions of  the  time  to  which  they  are  referred. 

2.  In  the  memoirs  of  the  Former  Han  dvnastv  (b.c.  201 — a.d. 
24),  we  have  one  chapter  which  we  may  call  the  History  of  Litera- 
ture.1 It  commences  thus : — "After  the  death  of  Confucius,2  there 
was  an  end  of  his  exquisite  words;  and  when  his  seventy  disciples 
had  passed  away,  violence  began  to  be  done  to  their  meaning.  Jt 
came  about  that  there  were  five  different  editions  of  the  Ch'un 
Ts'ew,  four  of  the  She,  and  several  of  the  Yih.  Amid  the  disorder 
and  collision  of  the  warring  States  (b.c.  480-221),  truth  and 
falsehood  were  still  more  in  a  state  of  warfare,  and  a  sad  confusion 
marked  the  words  of  the  various  scholars.  Then  came  the  calamity 
inflicted  under  the  IVin  dynasty  (b.c.  220-200),  when  the  literary 
monuments  were  destroyed  by  fire,  in  order  to  keep  the  people  in 
ignorance.  But,  by-and-by,  there  arose  the  Han  dynasty,  which 
set  itself  to  remedy  the  evil  wrought  by  the  Ts'in.  Great  efforts  were 
made  to  collect  slips  and  tablets,8  and  the  way  was  thrown  wide 
open  for  the  bringing  in  of  Books.  In  the  time  of  the  emperor 
Heaou-woo4  (b.c.  139-86),  portions  of  Books  being  wanting  and 
tablets  lost,  so  that  ceremonies  and  music  were  suffering  great 

23  For  the  statement*  in  the  two  last  paragraphs,  see  gg  ffi  ^  ^,  ^  ^t  jfg  ^£f 
tablets  on  bamboo,  which  supplied  in  those  days  the  place  of  paper.     4   HJj  jfc  iji  jg£ 

JUS* 


3] 


noLNOHuu.]  THE  €HINE8E  CLASSICS  GENERALLY.  [ch.  i. 

damage,  he  was  moved  to  sorrow,  and  said,  i  I  am  very  sad  for 
this.'  He  therefore  formed  the  plan  of  Repositories,  in  which 
the  Books  might  he  stored,  and  appointed  officers  to  transcribe  Books 
on  an  extensive  scale,  embracing  the  works  of  the  various  scholars, 
that  they  might  all  be  placed  in  the  Repositories.  The  emperor 
Shing5  (b.c.  31-4),  finding  that  a  portion  of  the  Books  still  con- 
tinued dispersed  or  missing,  commissioned  Ch'in  Nung,  the  super- 
intendent of  guests,6  to  search  for  undiscovered  Books  throughout 
the  empire,  and  by  special  edict  ordered  the  chief  of  the  Banqueting 
House,  LewHeang,7  to  examine  the  classical  Works,  along  with  the 
commentaries  on  them,  the  writings  of  the  scholars,  and  all  poetical 
productions;  the  master-controller  of  infantry,  Jin  Hwang,s  to  ex- 
amine the  Books  on  the  art  of  war;  the  grand  historiographer, 
YinHeen,9  to  examine  the  Books  treating  of  the  art  of  numbers  (i.e., 
divination);  and  the  imperial  physician,  Le  Ch'oo-ko,10  to  examine 
the  books  on  medicine.  Whenever  any  Book  was  done  with,  Heang 
forthwith  arranged  it,  indexed  it,  and  made  a  digest  of  it,  which  was 
presented  to  the  emperor.  While  the  undertaking  was  in  pro- 
gress, Heang  died,  and  the  emperor  Gae  (b.c.  5 — a.d.)  appointed 
his  son,  Hin,11  a  master  of  the  imperial  carriages,  to  complete  his 
father's  work.  On  this,  Hin  collected  all  the  books,  and  presented 
a  report  of  them,  under  seven  divisions." 

The  first  of  these  divisions  seems  to  have  been  a  general  cata- 
logue,12 containing  perhaps  only  the  titles  of  the  works  included  in 
the  other  six.  The  second  embraced  the  classical  AVorks.13  From 
the  abstract  of  it,  which  is  preserved  in  the  chapter  referred  to,  we 
find  that  there  were  294  collections  of  the  Yih-king,  from  13  dif- 
ferent individuals  or  editors  ;u  412  collections  of  the  Shoo-king,  from 
9  different  individuals;  416  volumes  of  the  She-king,  from  6  differ- 
ent individuals;16  of  the  Books  of  Rites,  555  collections,  from  13 

Wsftte-  9*j&^j&  io#W^&gl-  «#**** 

How  muck  of  the  whole  Work  was  contained  in  each  JSa,  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  ascertain.    P. 

Regis  says: — "Pien,  quemadmodum  Gallice  die  units  ldes  pieces  d' eloquence,  de  poesie.*  "     15  §4,  "^J 

^5C>  E3  75  — '  "|  ~/\  'S^'  The  collections  of  the  Sneaking  are  mentioned  under  the  name 
of  Keuen,  *  sections/  '  portions.'  Had  p'een  been  used,  it  might  have  been  understood  of  individual 
odes.  This  change  of  terms  shows  that  by  p^een  in  the  other  summaries,  we  are  not  to  understand 
single  blocks  or  chapters. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


mct.  n.]  AUTHOUITY  OP  THE  CHIKESE  CLASSICS.  [pbolegojouu. 

different  individuals ;  of  the  Books  on  Music,  165  collections, 
from  6  different  editors ;  948  collections  of  History,  under  the  head- 
ing of  the  Ch'un  Ts'ew,  from  23  different  individuals;  229  collec- 
tions of  the  Lun  Yu,  including  the  Analects  and  kindred  fragments, 
from  12  different  individuals;  of  the  Heaou-king,  embracing  also 
the  Urh  Ya,  and  some  other  portions  of  the  ancient  literature,  59 
collections,  from  11  different  individuals;  and  finally  of  the  Lesser 
Learning,  being  works  on  the  form  of  the  characters,  45  collections, 
from  11  different  individuals.  The  Works  of  Mencius  were  includ- 
ed in  the  second  division,16  among  the  Writings  of  what  were 
deemed  orthodox  scholars,17  of  which  there  were  836  collections, 
from  53  different  individuals. 

3.  The  above  important  document  is  sufficient  to  show  how  the 
emperors  of  the  Han  dynasty,  as  soon  as  they  had  made  good  their 
possession  of  the  fcempire,  turned  their  attention  to  recover  the 
ancient  literature  of  the  nation,  the  Classical  Books  engaging  their 
first  care,  and  how  earnestly  and  effectively  the  scholars  of  the  time 
responded  to  the  wishes  of  their  rulers.  In  addition  to  the  facts 
specified  in  the  preface  to  it,  I  may  relate  that  the  ordinance  of  the 
IVin  dynasty  against  possessing  the  Classical  Books  (with  the 
exception,  as  will  appear  in  its  proper  place,  of  the  Yih-king)  was 
repealed  by  the  second  sovereign  of  the  Han,  the  emperor  Heaou 
Hwuy,18  in  the  4th  year  of  his  reign,  B.C.  190,  and  that  a  large 
portion  of  the  Shoo-king  was  recovered  in  the  time  of  the  third 
emperor,  B.C.  178-156,  while  in  the  year  B.C.  135,  a  special  Board 
was  constituted,  consisting  of  literati  who  were  put  in  charge  of  the 
five  King.19 

4.  The  collections  reported  on  by  Lew  Hin  suffered  damage  in 
the  troubles  which  began  a.d.  8,  and  continued  till  the  rise  of  the 
second  or  eastern  Han  dynasty  in  the  year  25.  The  founder  of  it 
(a.d.  25-57)  zealously  promoted  the  undertaking  of  his  predeces- 
sors, and  additional  repositories  were  required  for  the  books  which 
were  collected.  His  successors,  the  emperors,  Heaou-ming20  (58-75), 
Heaou-chang21  (76-88),  and  Heaou-hwo22  (89-105),  took  a  part 
themselves  in  the  studies  and  discussions  of  the  literary  tribunal, 


,8IW&-    "****     "#IIt'    »«**37C* 

fe«iM3L*flF±.  »«£#Mifr-  21J§£#^Mlfr- 
5] 


PKOEEoonnWA.]  THE   CITINESE    CLASSICS   GENERALLY.  Ten.  i 

and  the  emperor  Heaou-ling,23  between  the  years  172-178,  had  the 
text  of  the  five  King,  as  it  had  been  fixed,  cut  in  slabs  of  stone,  in 
characters  of  three  different  forms. 

5.  Since  the  Han,  the  successive  dynasties  have  considered  the 
literary  monuments  of  the  country  to  be  an  object  of  their  special  care. 
Many  of  them  have  issued  editions  of  the  classics,  embodying  the 
commentaries  of  preceding  generations.  No  dynasty  has  distin- 
guished itself  more  in  this  line  than  the  present  Manchew  possessors 
of  the  Empire.  In  fine,  the  evidence  is  complete  that  the  Classical 
Books  of  China  have  come  down  from  at  least  a  century  before 
our  Christian  era,  substantially  the  same  as  we  have  them  at  pres- 
ent. 

6.  But  it  still  remains  to  inquire  in  what  condition  we  may  suppose 
the  Books  were,  when  the  scholars  of  the  Han  dynasty  commenced 
their  labours  upon  them.  They  acknowledge  that  the  tablets — we 
cannot  here  speak  of  manuscripts — were  mutilated  and  in  disorder. 
Was  the  injury  which  they  had  received  of  such  an  extent  that  all  the 
care  and  study  put  forth  on  the  small  remains  would  be  of  little  use  ? 
This  question  can  be  answered  satisfactorily,  only  by  an  examination 
of  the  evidence  which  is  adduced  for  the  text  of  each  particular 
Classic;  but  it  can  be  made  apparent  that  there  is  nothing,  in  the 
nature  of  the  case,  to  interfere  with  our  believing  that  the  materials 
were  sufficient  to  enable  the  scholars  to  execute  the  work  intrusted 
to  them. 

7.  The  burning  of  the  ancient  Books  by  order  of  the  founder  of 
the  Ts'in  dynasty  is  always  referred  to  as  the  greatest  disaster  which 
they  sustained,  and  with  this  is  coupled  the  slaughter  of  many  of 
the  Literati  by  the  same  monarch. 

The  account  which  we  have  of  these  transactions  in  the  Historical 
Records  is  the  following : — 24 

"  In  his  34th  year,"  (the  34th  year,  that  is,  after  he  had  ascended 
the  throne  of  Ts'in.     It  was  only  the  8th  after  he  had  been  acknow 
ledged  Sovereign  of  the  empire,   coinciding  with  B.C.  212),   the 
emperor,  returning  from  a  visit  to  the  south,  which  had  extended  as 
far  as  Yue,  gave  a  feast  in  the  palace  of  Heen-yang,  when  the  Great 

23  jS£  H|  j||  ^.  21  I  have  thought  it  well  to  endeavour  to  translate  the  whole  of  the 
passages.  Father  de  Mail  la  merely  constructs  from  them  a  narrative  of  his  own;  see  L'Histoirt 
Generate  de  La  Chine,  tome  II..  pp.  899-402.  The  jg|  $j£  ffi  g  avoids  the  difficulties  of  the 
original  by  giving  an  abridgment  of  it. 


•ECT.  ii.]  AUTHORITY   OF  THE   CHINESE   CLASSICS,  [ptolboombha. 

Scholars,  amounting  to  seventy  men,  appeared  and  wished  him  long 
life.25  One  of  the  principal  ministers,  Chow  Ts4ing-shin,26  came  for- 
ward and  said,  'Formerly,  the  State  of  Ts'in  was  only  1,000  le  in 
extent,  but  Your  Majesty,  by  your  spirit-like  efficacy  and  intelli- 
gent wisdom,  has  tranquillized  and  settled  the  whole  empire,  and 
driven  away  all  barbarous  tribes,  so  that,  wherever  the  sun  and 
moon  shine,  all  appear  before  you  as  guests  acknowledging  subjec- 
tion. You  have  formed  the  States  of  the  various  princes  into  pro- 
vinces and  districts,  where  the  people  enjoy  a  happy  tranquillity, 
suffering  no  more  from  the  calamities  of  war  and  contention. 
This  condition  of  things  will  be  transmitted  for  10,000  generations. 
From  the  highest  antiquity  there  has  been  no  one  in  awful  virtue 
like  Your  Majesty.' 

"The  Emperor  was  pleased  with  this  flattery,  when  Shun  Yu- 
yne,27  one  of  the  great  scholars,  a  native  of  Ts'e,  advanced  and 
said,  *  The  sovereigns  of  Yin  and  Chow,  for  more  than  a  thousand 
years,  invested  their  sons  and  younger  brothers,  and  meritorious 
ministers,  with  domains  and  rule,  and  could  thus  depend  upon  them 
for  support  and  aid ; — that  1  have  heard.  But  now  Your  Majesty 
is  in  possession  of  all  within  the  seas,  and  your  sons  and  younger 
brothers  are  nothing  but  private  individuals.  The  issue  will  be  that 
some  one  will  arise  to  play  the  part  of  T'een  Chang,28  or  of  the  six 
nobles  of  Tsin.  Without  the  support  of  yowr  own  family,  where  will 
you  find  the  aid  which  you  may  require  ?  That  a  state  of  things  not 
modelled  from  the  lessons  of  antiquity  can  long  continue ; — that  is 
what  1  have  not  heard.  Ts'ing  is  now  showing  himself  to  be  a  flatterer, 
who  increases  the  errors  of  Your  Majesty,  and  not  a  loyal  minister.' 

"The  Emperor  requested  the  opinions  of  others  on  this  representa- 
tion, when  the  premier,  Le  Sze,29  said,  'The  five  emperors  were 
not  one  the  double  of  the  other,  nor  did  the  three  dynasties  accept 
one  another's  ways.  Each  had  a  peculiar  system  of  government, 
not  for  the  sake  of  the  contrariety,  but  as  being  required  by  the 
changed  times.  Now,  Your  Majesty  has  laid  the  foundations  of 
imperial  sway,  so  that  it  will  last  for  10,000  generations.     This  is 

^f§:t-fc-f"A18(f^§  |f.  The  ffj  J^  were  not  only  'great  scholars,'  but  had 
in  official  rank.  There  was  what  we  may  call  a  college  of  them,  consisting  of  seventy  members. 
»i^J|f  E-  "W-T-ffi-  2«  ffl^.-'^^uld  probably  be  ^,M 
it  is  given  in  the  T'ung  Keen.    29  ^  jjfi![  ^  Jjjp 

7J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


i-rolegomeh*.]  THE   CHINESE   CLASSICS   GENERALLY.  [ch.  i. 

indeed  beyond  what  a  stupid  scholar  can  understand.  And,  more- 
over, Yue  only  talks  of  things  belonging  to  the  Three  Dynasties, 
which  are  not  fit  to  be  models  to  you.  At  other  times,  when  the 
princes  were  all  striving  together,  they  endeavoured  to  gather  the 
wandering  scholars  about  them ;  but  now,  the  empire  is  in  a  stable 
condition,  and  laws  and  ordinances  issue  from  one  supreme  autiwrity* 
Let  those  of  the  people  who  abide  in  their  homes  give  their  strength 
to  the  toils  of  husbandry,  and  those  who  become  scholars  should  study 
the  various  laws  and  prohibitions.  Instead  of  doing  this,  however, 
the  scholars  do  not  learn  what  belongs  to  the  present  day,  but  study 
antiquity.  They  go  on  to  condemn  the  present  time,  leading  the 
masses  of  the  people  astray,  and  to  disorder. 

"At  the  risk  of  my  life,  I,  the  prime  minister,  say, — Formerly, 
when  the  empire  was  disunited  and  disturbed,  there  was  no  one 
who  could  give  unity  to  it.  The  princes  therefore  stood  up  toge- 
ther; constant  references  were  made  to  antiquity  to  the  injury  of 
the  present  state ;  baseless  statements  were  dressed  up  to  confound 
what  was  real,  and  men  made  a  boast  of  their  own  peculiar  learn- 
ing to  condemn  what  their  rulers  appointed.  And  now,  when  Your 
Majesty  has  consolidated  the  empire,  and,  distinguishing  black  from 
white,  has  constituted  it  a  stable  unity,  they  still  honour  their 
peculiar  learning,  and  combine  together;  they  teach  men  what 
is  contrary  to  your  laws.  When  they  hear  that  an  ordinance  has 
been  issued,  every  one  sets  to  discussing  it  with  his  learning.  In 
the  court,  they  are  dissatisfied  in  heart ;  out  of  it,  they  keep  talking 
in  the  streets.  While  they  make  a  pretence  of  vaunting  their  Mas- 
ter, they  consider  it  fine  to  have  extraordinary  views  of  their  own. 
And  so  they  lead  on  the  people  to  be  guilty  of  murmuring  and  evil 
speaking.  If  these  things  are  not  prohibited,  Your  Majesty's  au- 
thority will  decline,  and  parties  will  be  formed.  The  best  way  is 
to  prohibit  them.  I  pray  that  all  the  Records  in  charge  of  the 
Historiographers  be  burned,excepting  those  of  Ts'in  ;  that,  with  the 
exception  of  those  officers  belonging  to  the  Board  of  Great  Scholars, 
all  throughout  the  empire  who  presume  to  keep  copies  of  the  She- 
king,  or  of  the  Shoo-king,  or  of  the  books  of  the  Hundred  Schools, 
be  required  to  go  with  them  to  the  officers  in  charge  of  the  several 
districts,  and  burn  them ; 30  that  all  who  may  dare  to  speak  together 

J  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


sbct.  il]  AUTHORITY  OF  THE   CHINESE   CLASSICS.  [prolboombha. 

about  the  She  and  the  Shoo  be  put  to  death,  and  their  bodies  exposed 
in  the  market  place ;  that  those  who  make  mention  of  the  past,  so 
as  to  blame  the  present,  be  put  to  death  along  with  their  relatives ; 
that  officers  who  shall  know  of  the  violation  of  those  rules  and  not 
inform  against  the  offenders,  be  held  equally  guilty  with  them;  and 
that  whoever  shall  not  have  burned  their  Books  within  thirty  days 
after  the  issuing  of  the  ordinance,  be  branded  and  sent  to  labour 
on  the  wall  for  four  years.  The  only  Books  which  should  be  spared 
are  those  on  medicine,  divination,  and  husbandry.  Whoever  wants 
to  learn  the  laws  may  go  to  the  magistrates  and  learn  of  them.' 

"  The  imperial  decision  was — '  Approved.' " 

The  destruction  of  the  scholars  is  related  more  briefly.  In  the 
year  after  the  burning  of  the  Books,  the  resentment  of  the  emperor 
was  excited  by  the  remarks  and  flight  of  two  scholars  who  had  been 
favourites  with  him,  and  he  determined  to  institute  a  strict  inquiry 
about  all  of  their  class  in  Heen-yang,  to  find  out  whether  they  had 
been  making  ominous  speeches  about  him,  and  disturbing  the  minds 
of  the  people.  T]|ie  investigation  was  committed  to  the  Censors,81 
and  it  being  discovered  that  upwards  of  460  scholars  had  violated 
the  prohibitions,  they  were  all  buried  alive  in  pits,32  for  a  warning 
to  the  empire,  while  degradation  and  banishment  were  employed 
more  strictly  than  before  against  all  who  fell  under  Suspicion.  The 
emperor's  eldest  son,  Foo-soo,  remonstrated  with  him,  saying  that 
such  measures  against  those  who  repeated  the  words  of  Confucius 
and  sought  to  imitate  him,  would  alienate  all  the  people  from  their 
infant  dynasty,  but  his  interference  offended  his  father  so  much  that 
he  was  sent  off  from  court,  to  be  with  the  general  who  was  super- 
intending the  building  of  the  great  wall. 

8.  No  attempts  have  been  made  by  Chinese  critics  and  historians 
to  discredit  the  record  of  these  events,  though  some  have  questioned 
the  extent  of  the  injury  inflicted  by  them  on  the  monuments  of 
their  ancient  literature.33  It  is  important  to  observe  that  the  edict 
against  the  Books  did  not  extend  to   the  Yih-king,  which  was 

J0J  £|  Ia*  ""h  |&  A'  II?  lift  >£  Jpfe  l$7  *  The  meanin8  of  thU  P*88*^  as  a  whole  it 
sufficiently  plain,  but  I  am  unable  to  make  out  the  force  of  the  phrase  B  B4*.  33  See  the  re- 
marks of  Ch*ing  Kea-tse  (*fc  |i£?  ||K  j^),  of  the  Sung  dynast/,  on  the  subject,  in  the  fr 

Jfife  iE  ^t*»  Bk-  clxxiv'  p*  5' 

J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


MtOLBOomwA.]  THE   CIIINESE   CLASSICS  GENERALLY.  [ch.1. 

exempted  as  being  a  work  on  divination,  nor  did  it  extend  to  the 
other  classics  which  were  in  charge  of  the  Board  of  Great  Scholars. 
It  is  still  more  important  to  note  that  the  burning  took  place  only 
three  years  before  the  death  of  the  tyrant  who  commanded  it.  He 
died  B.C.  209,  and  the  feeble  reign  of  his  second  son,  who  succeed- 
ed him,  lasted  only  three  years.  A  brief  season  of  disorder  and 
struggling  between  different  chiefs  for  the  supreme  authority  ensued, 
but  the  reign  of  the  founder  of  the  Han  dynasty  dates  from  B.C. 
201.  Thus,  eleven  years  were  all  which  intervened  between  the  order 
for  the  burning  of  the  Books  and  the  rise  of  that  family,  which 
signalized  itself  by  the  care  which  it  bestowed  for  their  recovery ; 
and  from  the  edict  of  the  tyrant  of  Ts'in  against  private  individuals 
having  copies  in  their  keeping,  to  its  express  abrogation  by  the  em- 
peror Heaou  Hwuy,  there  were  only  22  years.  We  may  believe,  indeed, 
that  vigorous  efforts  to  carry  the  edict  into  effect  would  not  be  con- 
tinued longer  than  the  life  of  its  author, — that  is,  not  for  more  than 
about  three  years.  The  calamity  inflicted  on  the  ancient  Books  of 
China  by  the  House  of  Ts'in  could  not  have  approached  to  anything 
like  a  complete  destruction  of  them.  There  would  be  no  occasion 
for  the  scholars  of  the  Han  dynasty,  in  regard  to  the  bulk  of  their 
ancient  literature,  to  undertake  more  than  the  work  of  recension 
and  editing. 

9.  The  idea  of  forgery  by  them  on  a  large  scale  is  out  of  the 
question.  The  catalogues  of  Leang  Hin  enumerated  more  than 
13,000  volumes  of  a  larger  or  smaller  size,  the  productions  of  nearly 
600  different  writers,  and  arranged  in  ;>8  subdivisions  of  subjects.34 
In  the  third  catalogue,  the  first  subdivision  contained  the  orthodox 
writers,35  to  the  number  of  53,  with  836  Works  or  portions  of  their 
"Works.  Between  Meucius  and  K'ung  Keih,  the  grandson  of  Con- 
fucius, eight  different  authors  have  place.  The  second  subdivision 
contained  the  Works  of  the  Taouist  school,36  amounting  to  993  collec- 
tions, from  37  different  authors.  The  sixth  subdivision  contained 
the  Mihist  writers,37  to  the  number  of  6,  with  their  productions 
in  86  collections.  I  specify  these  two  subdivisions,  because  they 
embraced  the  Works  of  schools  or  sects  antagonist  to  that  of  Con- 
fucius, and  some  of  them  still  hold  a  place  in  Chinese  literature, 

"Jl#*li&.  H  +  AfciWA  +  ^fcHH^-W 
*  +  A«-  «*£**■  *£$**  "&«**• 

10] 


n.]  AUTnOBITY  OF  THB  CHINESE  CLASSICS.  [prolboomeka. 

and  contain  many  references  to  the  five  Classics,  and  to  Confucius 
and  his  disciples. 

10.  The  inquiry  pursued  in  the  above  paragraphs  cdtiducts  us  to 
the  conclusion  that  the  materials  from  which  the  Classics,  as  they 
have  come  down  to  us,  were  compiled  and  edited  in  the  two  cen- 
turies preceding  our  Christian  era,  were  genuine  remains,  going  back 
to  a  still  more  remote  period.  The  injury  which  they  sustained 
from  the  dynasty  of  TsHn  was,  I  believe,  the  same  in  character  as 
that  to  which  they  were  exposed,  during  all  the  time  of  "the 
Warring  States."  It  may  have  been  more  intense  in  degree,  but  the 
constant  warfare  which  prevailed  for  some  centuries  among  the 
different  States  which  composed  the  empire  was  eminently  unfavour- 
able to  the  cultivation  of  literature.  Mencius  tells  us  how  the 
princes  had  made  away  with  many  of  the  records  of  antiquity,  from 
which  their  own  usurpations  and  innovations  might  have  been  con- 
demned.88 Still  the  times  were  not  unfruitful,  either  in  scholars  or 
statesmen,  to  whom  the  ways  and  monuments  of  antiquity  were  dear, 
and  the  space  from  the  rise  of  the  Ts'in  dynasty  to  Confucius  was 
not  very  great.  It  only  amounted  to  258  years.  Between  these 
two  periods  Mencius  stands  as  a  connecting  link.  Born  probably 
in  the  year  B.C.  371,  he  reached,  by  the  intervention  of  K'ung  Keih, 
back  to  the  sage  himself,  and  as  his  death  happened  B.C.  288, 
we  are  brought  down  to  within  nearly  half  a  century  of  the  Ts'in 
dynasty.  From  all  these  considerations  we  may  proceed  with  confi- 
dence to  consider  each  separate  Work,  believing  that  we  have  in 
these  Classics  and  Books  what  the  great  sage  of  China  and  his  dis- 
ciples gave  to  their  country  more  than  2,000  years  ago. 

38.  Sec  Mencius,  V.  Pt.  II.  ii.  2. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


noLaaoxmA.]  THE  CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS.  [ch.il 


CILVPTER  II. 

OF  THE  CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 
SECTION  I. 

FORMATION  OF  THE  TEXT  OF  THE  ANALECTS  BY  THE  SCHOLARS 
OF  THE  HAN  DYNASTY. 

1.  When  the  work  of  collecting  and  editing  the  remains  of  the 
Classical  Books  was  undertaken  by  the  scholars  of  Han,  there  appear- 
ed two  different  copies  of  the  Analects,  one  from  Loo,  the  native  State 
of  Confucius,  and  the  other  from  Ts4e,  the  State  adjoining.  Between 
these  there  were  considerable  differences.  The  former  consisted  of 
twenty  Books  or  Chapters,  the  same  as  those  into  which  the  Classic 
is  now  divided.  The  latter  contained  two  Books  in  addition,  and  in 
the  twenty  Books,  which  they  had  in  common,  the  chapters  and 
sentences  were  somewhat  more  numerous  than  in  the  Loo  exemplar. 

2.  The  names  of  several  individuals  are  given,  who  devoted  them- 
selves to  the  study  of  those  two  copies  of  the  Classic.  Among  the 
patrons  of  the  Loo  copy  are  mentioned  the  names  of  Shing,  the  prince 
of  Hea,  grand-tutor  of  the  heir-apparent,  who  died  at  the  age  of  90, 
and  in  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Seuen  (b.c.  72 — 48)  ;l  Seaou  Wang- 
che,2  a  general  officer,  who  died  in  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Yuen, 
(b.c.  47-32) ;  Wei  Heen,  who  was  premier  of  the  empire  from  B.C. 
70-66  ;  and  his  son  Heuen-shing.3  As  patrons  of  the  Ts'e,  copy,  we 
have  Wang  K'ing,  who  was  a  censor  in  the  year  B.C.  99  ;4  Yung 
Shang,5  and  Wang  Keih,6  a  statesman  who  died  in  the  beginning  of 
the  reign  of  the  emperor  Yuen. 

3.  But  a  third  copy  of  the  Analects  was  discovered  about  B.C. 
1/jO.  One  of  the  sons  of  the  emperor  King  was  appointed  king  of 
Loo,7  in  the  year  B.C.  153,  and  some  time  after,  wishing  to  enlarge 
his  palace,  he  proceeded  to  pull  down  the  house  of  the  K'ung  family, 
known  as  that  where  Confucius  himself  had  lived.     While  doing  so, 

-*  Digitized  by  G00gk 


otct.  l]  FORMATION   OF   THE   TEXT.  [proleoomxka. 

there  were  found  in  the  wall  copies  of  the  Shoo-king,  the  Ch'un 
Ts'ew,  the  Heaou-king,  and  the  Lun  Yu  or  Analects,  which  had 
been  deposited  there,  when  the  edict  for  the  burning  of  the  Books 
was  issued.  They  were  all  written,  however,  in  the  most  ancient 
form  of  the  Chinese  character,8  which  had  fallen  into  disuse,  and 
the  king  returned  them  to  the  K'ung  family,  the  head  of  which, 
Kfcung  Gan-kwo,9  gave  himself  to  the  study  of  them,  and  finally,  in 
obedience  to  an  imperial  order,  published  a  Work  called  "The  Lun 
Yu,  with  Explanations  of  the  Characters,  and  Exhibition  of  the 
Meaning."10 

4.  The  recovery  of  this  copy  will  be  seen  to  be  a  most  import- 
ant circumstance  in  the  history  of  the  text  of  the  Analects.  It  is 
referred  to  by  Chinese  writers,  as  "The  old  Lun  Yu."  In  the 
historical  narrative  which  we  have  of  the  affair,  a  circumstance  is 
added  which  may  appear  to  some  minds  to  throw  suspicion  on  the 
whole  account.  The  king  was  finally  arrested,  we  are  told,  in  his 
purpose  to  destroy  the  house,  by  hearing  the  sounds  of  bells,  musical 
stones,  lutes,  and  harpsichords,  as  he  was  ascending  the  steps  that  led 
to  the  ancestral  hall  or  temple.  This  incident  was  contrived,  we 
may  suppose,  by  the  K'ung  family,  to  preserve  the  house,  or  it  may 
have  been  devised  by  the  historian  to  glorify  the  sage,  but  we  may 
not,  on  account  of  it,  discredit  the  finding  of  the  ancient  copies  of 
the  Books.  We  have  K'ung  Gan-kwo's  own  account  of  their  being 
committed  to  him,  and  of  the  ways  which  he  took  to  decipher  them. 
The  work  upon  the  Analects,  mentioned  above,  has  not  indeed  come 
down  to  us,  but  his  labours  on  the  Shoo-king  still  remain. 

5.  It  has  been  already  stated,  that  the  Lun  Yu  of  Ts'e  contained 
two  Books  more  than  that  of  Loo.  In  this  respect,  the  old  Lun 
Yu  agreed  with  the  Loo  exemplar.  Those  two  books  were  wanting 
it  in  as  well.  The  last  book  of  the  Loo  Lun  was  divided  in  it, 
however,  into  two,  the  chapter  beginning,  "  Yaou  said,"  forming  a 
whole  Book  by  itself,  and  the  remaining  two  chapters  formed  ano- 
ther Book  beginning  uTsze-chang."  With  this  trifling  difference, 
the  old  and  the  Loo  copies  appear  to  have  agreed  together. 

8  ia.  if*  ~aT  «4r, — Ht..  '  tadpole  characters.'  They  were,  it  is  said,  the  original  forms 
dVriaed  by  Ts*ang-K'e»S  with  large  heads  and  fine  tails,  like  the  creature  from  which  they  were 
named.    See  the  notes  to  the  preface  to  the  Shoo-king  in  *  The  thirteen  Classics/     9  lf\j  ^zjr 

B*    10  f&  pq*  §M  $?•    Se€  tlic  Prefacc  t0  tuc  Lun  Yu  in  * Tne  thirteen  Kiug.'    It  has  been 
my  principal  authority  in  this  Section. 


J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


MtOLEQOMBNA.]  THE  CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS.  [emit 

6.  Chang  Yu,  prince  of  Gan-ch'ang,  who  died  B.C.  4,  after  having 
sustained  several  of  the  highest  offices  of  the  empire,  instituted  a 
comparison  between  the  exemplars  of  Loo  and  Ts'e,  with  a  view  to 
determine  the  true  text  The  result  of  his  labours  appeared  in 
twenty-one  Books,  which  are  mentioned  in  Lew  Hin's  catalogue. 
They  were  known  as  the  Lun  of  the  prince  Chang,12  and  commanded 
general  approbation.  To  Chang  Yu  is  commonly  ascribed  the  eject- 
ing from  the  Classic  the  two  additional  books  which  the  Ts'e  exem- 
plar contained,  but  Ma  Twan-lin  prefers  to  rest  that  circumstance 
on  the  authority  of  the  old  Lun,  which  we  have  seen  was  without 
them.13  If  we  had  the  two  Books,  we  might  find  sufficient  reason  from 
their  contents  to  discredit  them.  That  may  have  been  sufficient 
for  Chang  Yu  to  condemn  them  as  he  did,  but  we  can  hardly 
suppose  that  he  did  not  have  before  him  the  old  Lun,  which  had 
come  to  light  about  a  century  before  he  published  his  Work. 

7.  In  the  course  of  the  second  century,  a  new  edition  of  the 
Analects,  with  a  commentary,  was  published  by  one  of  the  greatest 
scholars  which  China  has  ever  produced,  Ch'ing  Heuen,  known  also 
as  Ch'ing  K'ang-shing.14  He  died  in  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Heen 
(a.d.  190-220)  at  the  age  of  74,  and  the  amount  of  his  labours  on 
the  ancient  classical  literature  is  almost  incredible.  While  he 
adopted  the  Loo  Lun  as  the  received  text  of  his  time,  he  compared 
it  minutely  with  those  of  Ts'e  and  the  old  exemplar.  In  the  last 
section  of  this  chapter  will  be  found  a  list  of  the  readings  in  his 
commentary  different  from  those  which  are  now  acknowledged,  in 
deference  to  the  authority  of  Choo  He,  of  the  Sung  dynasty.  They 
are  not  many,  and  their  importance  is  but  trifling. 

8.  On  the  whole,  the  above  statements  will  satisfy  the  reader  of 
the  care  with  which  the  text  of  the  Lun  Yu  was  fixed  during  the 
dynasty  of  Han. 

SECTION  II. 
at  what  time,  and  by  whom,  the  analects  were  WRITTEN  ; 

THEIR  PLAN  ;  AND  AUTHENTICITY. 

1  At  the  commencement  of  the  notes  upon  the  first  Book,  under 
the  heading — "  The  Title  of  the  Work,"  I  have  given  the  received 


14]  Digitized  by  G00gk 


•ecT.  u]  BY  WHOM  WBITTEN.  [prolkgomkiul 

account  of  its  authorship,  taken  from  the  "  History  of  Literature" 
of  the  western  Han  dynasty.  According  to  that,  the  Analects  were 
compiled  by  the  disciples  of  Confucius,  coming  together  after  his 
death,  and  digesting  the  memorials  of  his  discourses  and  conversa- 
tions  which  they  had  severally  preserved.  But  this  cannot  be  true. 
We  may  believe,  indeed,  that  many  of  the  disciples  put  on  record 
conversations  which  they  had  had  with  their  master,  and  notes  about 
his  manners  and  incidents  of  his  life,  aud  that  these  have  been 
incorporated  with  the  Work  which  we  have,  but  that  Work  must 
have  taken  its  present  form  at  a  period  somewhat  later. 

In  Book  VIII.,  chapters  iii.  and  iv.,  we  have  some  notices  of  the 
last  days  of  TsSng  Sin,  and  are  told  that  he  was  visited  on  his  death- 
bed by  the  officer  M&ng  King.  Now  King  was  the  posthumous 
title  of  Chung-sun  Tsee,1  and  we  find  him  alive,  (Le  Ke,  II.  Pt.  II.  ii. 
2)  after  the  death  of  duke  To  of  Loo,2  which  took  place  B.C.  490,  about 
fifty  years  after  the  death  of  Confucius. 

Again,  Book  XIX.  is  all  occupied  with  the  sayings  of  the  disciples. 
Confucius  personally  does  not  appear  in  it.  Parts  of  it,  as  chapters 
iii.,  xiL,  and  xviii.,  carry  us  down  to  a  time  when  the  disciples  had 
schools  and  followers  of  their  own,  and  were  accustomed  to  sustain 
their  teachings  by  referring  to  the  lessons  which  they  had  heard 
from  the  sage. 

Thirdly,  there  is  the  second  chapter  of  Book  XL,  the  second 
paragraph  of  which  is  evidently  a  note  by  the  compilers  of  the 
Work,  enumerating  ten  of  the  principal  disciples,  and  classifying 
them  according  to  their  distinguishing  characteristics.  We  can 
hardly  suppose  it  to  have  been  written  while  any  of  the  ten  were 
alive.  But  there  is  among  them  the  name  of  Tsze-hea,  who  lived 
to  the  age  of  about  a  hundred.  We  find  him,  B.C.  406,  three  quar- 
ters of  a  century  after  the  death  of  Confucius,  at  the  court  of  Wei, 
to  the  prince  of  which  he  is  reported  to  have  presented  some  of  the 
Classical  Books.3 

2.  We  cannot  therefore  accept  the  above  account  of  the  origin  of 
the  Analects, — that  they  were  compiled  by  the  disciples  of  Confucius. 
Much  more  likely  is  the  view  that  we  owe  the  work  to  their  disci- 
ples.    In  the  note  on  I.  ii.  1,  a  peculiarity  is  pointed  out  in  the 

1  See  Choo  He'i  commentary,  in  foc-J^  $fc  ^  ||  ^  ^,  ^  $fc  ^,  >g  ^.    2 

15] 


Moleoomkha.]  THE   CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS.  [ch.  n. 

use  of  the  surnames  of  Yew  Jo  and  Ts&ng  Sin,  which  has  made 
some  Chinese  critics  attribute  the  compilation  to  their  followers. 
But  this  conclusion  does  not  stand  investigation.  Others  have 
assigned  different  portions  to  different  schools.  Thus,  Book  V.  is 
given  to  the  disciples  of  Tsze-kung;  Book  XI,  to  those  of  Min  Tsze- 
k'een ;  Book  XIV,  to  Yuen  Heen ;  and  Book  XVI  has  been  suppos- 
ed to  be  interpolated  from  the  Analects  of  Ts'e.  Even  if  we  were 
to  acquiesce  in  these  decisions,  we  should  have  accounted  only  for 
a  small  part  of  the  Work.  It  is  better  to  rest  in  the  general  con- 
clusion, that  it  was  compiled  by  the  disciples  of  the  disciples  of  the 
sage,  making  free  use  of  the  written  memorials  concerning  him 
which  they  had  received,  and  the  oral  statements  which  they  had 
heard,  from  their  several  masters.  And  we  shall  not  be  far  wrong, 
if  we  determine  its  date  as  about  the  end  of  the  fourth,  or  the  begin- 
ning of  the  fifth  century  before  Christ. 

3.  In  the  critical  work  on  the  Four  Books,  called  "  Record  of  Re- 
marks in  the  village  of  Yung,"*  it  is  observed,  "  The  Analects,  in  my 
opinion,  were  made  by  the  disciples,  just  like  this  record  of  remarks. 
There  they  were  recorded,  and  afterwards  came  a  first-rate  hand, 
who  gave  them  the  beautiful  literary  finish  which  we  now  witness,  so 
that  there  is  not  a  character  which  does  not  have  its  own  indispens- 
able placed  We  have  seen  that  the  first  of  these  statements  contains 
only  a  small  amount  of  truth  with  regard  to  the  materials  of  the 
Analects,  nor  can  we  receive  the  second.  If  one  hand  or  one  mind 
had  digested  the  materials  provided  by  many,  the  arrangement  and 
style  of  the  work  would  have  been  different.  We  should  not  have 
had  the  same  remark  appearing  in  several  Books,  with  little  variation, 
and  sometimes  with  none  at  all.  Nor  can  we  account  on  this  sup- 
position for  such  fragments  as  the  last  chapters  of  the  9th,  10thr 
and  16th  Books,  and  many  others.  No  definite  plan  has  been  kept 
in  view  throughout.  A  degree  of  unity  appears  to  belong  to  some 
Books  more  than  others,  and  in  general  to  the  first  ten  more  than 
to  those  which  follow,  but  there  is  no  progress  of  thought  or 
illustration  of  subject  from  Book  to  Book.  And  even  in  those  where 


*  1§  1^  ait  ^t_~^  1^'  <the  viUa^e  of  Yun&*  is» I  conceive,  the  writer's  nom  de  plume. 

lfi] 


act.  u.]  THEIR  AUTHENTICITY.  [pbolbgomb*^ 

the  chapters  have  a  common  subject,  they  are  thrown  together  at 
random  more  than  on  any  plan. 

4.  When  the  Work  was  first  called  the  Lun  Yu,  we  cannot  tell.* 
The  evidence  in  the  preceding  section  is  sufficient  to  prove  that 
when  the  Han  scholars  were  engaged  in  collecting  the  ancient 
Books,  it  came  before  them,  not  in  broken  tablets,  but  complete, 
and  arranged  in  Books  or  Sections,  as  we  now  have  it  The  old 
Lun  was  found  deposited  in  the  wall  of  the  house  which  Confucius 
had  occupied,  and  must  have  been  placed  there  not  later  than  B.C. 
211,  distant  from  the  date  which  I  have  assigned  to  the  compilation, 
not  much  more  than  a  century  and  a  half.  That  copy,  written  in 
the  most  ancient  characters,  was,  possibly,  the  autograph  of  the 
compilers. 

We  have  the  Writings,  or  portions  of  the  Writings,  of  several 
authors  of  the  third  and  fourth  centuries  before  Christ.  Of  these,  in 
addition  to  "The  Great  Learning,"  "The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,"  and 
"  The  Works  of  Mencius,"  I  have  looked  over  the  Works  of  Seun 
King7  of  the  orthodox  school,  of  the  philosophers  Chwang  and  Le§ 
of  the  Taouist  school,8  and  of  the  heresiarch  Mih.9 

In  The  Great  Learning,  Commentary,  chapter  iv.,  we  have  the 
words  of  Ana.  XII.  xiiL  In  The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,  ch.  iii., 
we  have  Ana.  VI.  xxvii.;  and  in  ch.  xxviii.  5,  we  have  Ana.  III. 
xxiv.  In  Mencius,  II.  Pt.  I.  ii.  19,  we  have  Ana.  VII.  xxxiii.,  and 
in  vii  2,  Ana.  IV.  i;  in  III.  Pt.  I.  iv.  1 1,  Ana.  VIII.  xviii.,  xix.;  in 
IV.  Pt  I.  xiv.  1,  Ana.  XI.  xvi.  2 ;  V.  Pt.  II.  vii.  9,  Ana.  X.  xiii.  4. ; 
and  in  VII.  Pt.  II.  xxxvii.  1,  2,  8,  Ana.  V.  xxi.,  XIII.  xxi.,  and  XVII. 
xiii.  These  quotations,  however,  are  introduced  by  "The  Master  said," 
or  "  Confucius  said,"  no  mention  being  made  of  any  book  called 
"  The  Lun  Yu,"  or  Analects.  In  The  Great  Learning,  Commentary, 
x.  15,  we  have  the  words  of  Ana.  IV.  iii.,  and  in  Mencius,  III.  Pt.  II. 
viL  3,  those  of  Ana.  XVII.  i,  but  without  any  notice  of  quotation. 


6  In  the  continuation  of  the  "General  Examination  of  Record*  and  Scholars,  (jj 
j&\  Bk.  cxcviii.  p.  17,  it  is  said,  indeed,  on  the  authority  of  Wang  Ch<UDg  (J  j^),  a  scholar 
of  the  1st  century,  that  when  the  Work  came  out  of  the  wall  it  was  named  a  Chuen  or  Record 
(flff  )>  and  that  it  was  when  Kiing  Gan-kwd  instructed  a  native  of  Tsin,  named  Foo-king,  in  it, 

that  it  first  got  the  name  of  Lun  Yu:-^  ^  ^|^  ^^^^  P^,  ^^0  ^, 

ft%m)XtUiWLWAftm>i&Bffii&    If  it  were  so,  it  is  orange 
the  circumstance  is  not  mentioned  in  Ho  An's  preface.    7  ^jjj  fflj.    8  jgf»  -J-%  ^|  -J^\ 

•  If-. 

■1  Digitized  by  G00gle 


«olboom»a.]  THE  CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS.  [ch.il 

In  the  Writings  of  Seun  K'ing,  Book  I.  page  2,  we  find  the  words 
of  Ana.  XV.  xxx;  p.  6,  those  of  XIV.  xxv.  In  Book  VIII.  p.  13. 
we  have  the  words  of  Ana.  II.  xvii.  But  in  these  three  instances 
there  is  no  mark  of  quotation. 

In  the  Writings  of  Chwang,  I  have  noted  only  one  passage  where 
the  words  of  the  Analects  are  reproduced.  Ana.  XVIII.  v.  is  found, 
but  with  large  additions,  and  no  reference  of  quotation,  in  his  treatise 
on  "The  state  of  Men  in  the  world,  Intermediate,"10  placed,  that  is, 
between  Heaven  and  Earth.  In  all  those  Works,  as  well  as  in  those  of 
Lee  and  Mih,  the  references  to  Confucius  and  his  disciples,  and  to 
many  circumstances  of  his  life,  are  numerous.11  The  quotations  of 
sayings  of  his  not  found  in  the  Analects  are  likewise  many,  especially  in 
the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,  in  Mencius,  and  in  the  works  of  Chwang. 
Those  in  the  latter  are  mostly  burlesques,  but  those  by  the  orthodox 
writers  have  more  or  less  of  classical  authority.  Some  of  them  may  be 
found  in  the  Kea  Yu,12  or  "  Family  Sayings,"  and  in  parts  of  theLe  Ke, 
while  others  are  only  known  to  us  by  their  occurrence  in  these  Writ- 
ings. Altogether,  they  do  not  supply  the  evidence,  for  which  I  am 
in  quest,  of  the  existence  of  the  Analects  as  a  distinct  Work,  bearing 
the  name  of  the  Lun  Yu,  prior  to  the  Ts'in  dynasty.  They  leave 
the  presumption,  however,  in  favour  of  those  conclusions,  which 
arises  from  the  facts  stated  in  the  first  section,  undisturbed.  They 
confirm  it  rather.  They  show  that  there  was  abundance  of  materi- 
als at  hand  to  the  scholars  of  Han,  to  compile  a  much  larger  Work 
with  the  same  title,  if  they  had  felt  it  their  duty  to  do  the  business 
of  compilation,  and  not  that  of  editing. 

SECTION  III. 

OF  COMMENTARIES   UPON   THE   ANALECTS. 

1.  It  would  be  a  vast  and  unprofitable  labour  to  attempt  to  give 
a  list  of  the  Commentaries  which  have  been  published  on  this  Work. 
My  object  is  merely  to  point  out  how  zealously  the  business  of  inter- 
pretation was  undertaken,  as  soon  as  the  text  had  been  recovered 
by  the  scholars  of  the  Han  dynasty,  and  with  what  industry  it  has 
been  persevered  in  down  to  the  present  time. 

10    K   fit]  itf*.    11  In  Mih's  chapter  against  the  Literati,  he  mentions  some  of  the  charac- 
teristics of  Confucius,  in  the  very  words  of  the  10th  Book  of  the  Analects.    12  Jfi£  =|ff\ 

18] 


ttcr.  m.]  COMMENTARIES.  [peolboombna 

2.  Mention  has  been  made,  in  Section  I.  6,  of  the  Lun  of  prince 
Chang,  published  in  the  half  century  before  our  era.  Paou  Heen,1  a 
distinguished  scholar  and  officer,  of  the  reign  of  Kwang-woo,2  the  first 
emperor  of  the  Eastern  Han  dynasty,  a.d.  25-57,  and  another  scholar 
of  the  surname  Chow,3  less  known  but  of  the  same  time,  published 
Works,  containing  arrangements  of  this  into  chapters  and  sentences, 
with  explanatory  notes.  The  critical  work  of  K'ung  Gan-kw5  on  the 
old  Lun  Yu  has  been  referred  to.  That  was  lost  in  consequence  of 
suspicions  under  which  Gan-kwo  fell  towards  the  close  of  the  reign 
of  the  emperor  Woo,  but  in  the  time  of  the  emperor  Shun,  a.d.  126- 
144,  another  scholar,  Ma  Yung,4  undertook  the  exposition  of  the 
characters  in  the  old  Lun,  giving  at  the  same  time  his  views  of  the 
general  meaning.  The  labours  of  Ch'ing  Heuen  in  the  second 
century  have  been  mentioned.  Not  long  after  his  death,  there  ensued 
a  period  of  anarchy,  when  the  empire  was  divided  into  three  govern- 
ments, well  known  from  the  celebrated  historical  romance,  called 
"The  Three  States."  The  strongest  of  them,  the  House  of  Wei,  pa- 
tronized literature,  and  three  of  its  high  officers  and  scholars,  Ch'in 
K'eun,  Wang  Suh,  and  Chow  Shang-lee,5  in  the  first  half,  and  pro- 
bably the  second  quarter,  of  the  third  century,  all  gave  to  the 
world  their  notes  on  the  Analects. 

Very  shortly  after,  five  of  the  chief  ministers  of  the  Government  of 
Wei,  Sun  Yung,  Ch'ing  Ch'ung,  Tsaou  He,  Seun  K'ae,  and  Ho  An,« 
united  in  the  production  of  one  great  Work,  entitled,  "A  Collection  of 
Explanations  of  the  Lun  Yu."7  It  embodied  the  labours  of  all  the 
writers  which  have  been  mentioned,  and  having  been  frequently 
reprinted  by  succeeding  dynasties,  it  still  remains.  The  preface  of 
the  five  compilers,  in  the  form  of  a  memorial  to  the  emperor,  so 
called,  of  the  House  of  Wei,  is  published  with  it,  and  has  been  of 
much  assistance  to  me  in  writing  these  sections.  Ho  An  was  the 
leader  among  them,  and  the  work  is  commonly  quoted  as  if  it  were 
the  production  of  him  alone. 

i^j&  *%&  *$#•  *sJi*i*.m»*^«i»* 

ft*  ^mmMm- 


not»<x>MiHA.]  THE  CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS.  [en  n. 

3.  From  Ho  An  downwards,  there  has  hardly  been  a  dynasty 
which  has  not  contributed  its  labourers  to  the  illustration  of  the 
Analects.  In  the  Leang,  which  occupied  the  throne  a  good  part  of 
the  sixth  century,  there  appeared  the  "  Comments  of  Wang  K'an,"& 
who  to  the  seven  authorities  cited  by  Ho  An  added  other  thirteen, 
being  scholars  who  had  deserved  well  of  the  Classic  during  the 
intermediate  time.  Passing  over  other  dynasties,  we  come  to  the 
Sung,  a.d.  960-1279.  An  edition  of  the  Classics  was  published  by 
imperial  authority,  about  the  beginning  of  the  11th  century,  with 
the  title  of  "  The  correct  Meaning."  The  principal  scholar  engaged 
in  the  undertaking  was  Hing  Ping.9  The  portion  of  it  on  the 
Analects10  is  commonly  reprinted  in  "The  Thirteen  Classics,"  after 
Ho  An's  explanations.  But  the  names  of  the  Sung  dynasty  are  all 
thrown  into  the  shade  by  that  of  Choo  He,  than  whom  China  has  not 
produced  a  greater  scholar.  He  composed,  in  the  12th  century, 
three  Works  on  the  Analects: — the  first  called  "Collected  Mean- 
ings,"11 the  second,  "Collected  Comments;"12  and  the  third,  "Que- 
ries."18 Nothing  could  exceed  the  grace  and  clearness  of  his  stj'le, 
and  the  influence  which  he  has  exerted  on  the  literature  of  China 
has  been  almost  despotic. 

The  scholars  of  the  present  dynasty,  however,  seem  inclined  to 
question  the  correctness  of  his  views  and  interpretations  of  the 
Classics,  and  the  chief  place  among  them  is  due  to  Maou  K'e- 
ling,u  known  by  the  nom  de  plume  of  Se-ho.16  His  writings,  under 
the  name  of  "  The  collected  Works  of  Se-ho,"16  have  been  published 
in  80  volumes,  containing  between  three  and  four  hundred  books  or 
sections.  He  has  nine  treatises  on  The  Four  Books,  or  parts  of 
them,  and  deserves  to  take  rank  with  Ch'ing  Heuen  and  Choo  He 
at  the  head  of  Chinese  scholars,  though  he  is  a  vehement  opponent 
of  the  latter.  Most  of  his  writings  are  to  be  found  also  in  the  great 
Work  called  "A  collection  of  Works  on  the  Classics,  under  the 
Imperial  dynasty  of  Ts'ing,"17  which  contains  1,400  sections,  and  is 
a  noble  contribution  by  the  present  rulers  of  China  to  the  illustra- 
tion of  its  ancient  literature. 

•g{ji&R*t-  »nm-  »ifirsiiE#  «mm$km- »* 


20] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


wcr.  it.]  VARIOUS  READINGS.  [pbolboommu. 

SECTION  IV. 

OF  VARIOUS  READINGS. 

In  "  The  Collection  of  Supplementary  Observations  on  The  Four 
Books/'1  the  second  chapter  contains  a  general  view  of  commentaries 
on  the  Analects,  and  from  it  I  extract  the  following  list  of  various 
readings  of  the  text  found  in  the  comments  of  Ch'ing  Heuen,  and 
referred  to  in  the  first  section  of  this  chapter. 

Book  II,  i,  ^for^;TiU.^f0r^;xix.,^£or^;xxm.l,-[-{g:"^^ft 

without  fy,  for  -|-  f]£l5f  ^ftl  *tfer  Book  UI>  ***•»  **  the  dause  l)k  tyJffi^1  he  makefl  a 
fall  stop  at  jfe  ;  xxi.  1,  ^  for  j|£.  Book  IV.  x,  ^  for  jg,  and  |j|  for  J|.  Book  V. 
zxi,  he  pats  a  full  stop  at  -¥*.  Book  VX  rii,  he  has  not  the  characters  B|l  3j%  Book  VII. 
ivn  ^  for  ^ ;  xxxiv.,  -JT  $£  simply,  for  "^"^^5«  Book  IX.  ix^  ^  for  JJ.  Book  XL 
xxr.  7,  g|  for  £|,  and  g|  for  g|.  Book  Xm.  iii.  8,  ^p^  for  j^;  xyuX  1,  ^  for  J^. 
Book  XIV.  xxxi^for^jxxxiv.l^^^^^H  for  fa  $  £  $  jfa 
3£|£L  Book  XV.  i.  2, 5|^|  for  |§.  Book  XVI.  i. 18,  ^  for  ^J.  Book  XVII.  i,  |f|  for 
gg ;  xxir.  2,  |£?  for  ^gjjr.    Book  XVIDL  iY„  |f|  for  g| ;  viu.  1,  jfo  for  ^. 

These  various  readings  are  exceedingly  few,  and  in  themselves 
insignificant.  The  student  who  wishes  to  pursue  this  subject  at 
length,  is  provided  with  the  means  in  the  Work  of  Teih  (?  Chih) 
Keaou-show,1  expressly  devoted  to  it.  It  forms  sections  449-473 
of  the  Works  on  the  Classics,  mentioned  at  the  close  of  the  last 
section. 

'H*gftlt'*tt«|!9*#Jl 


21] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


1MUKOXBXA]  THE   GREAT   LEARNING.  [ca  m. 


CHAPTER  III. 

OF  THE  GREAT  LEAENING. 
SECTION  I. 

HISTORY    OF    THE    TEXT,    AND    THE    DrFFERENT    ARRANGEMENTS    OF  IT 
WHICH   HAVE   BEEN   PROPOSED. 

1.  It  has  already  been  mentioned  that "  The  Great  Learning"  forms 
one  of  the  Chapters  of  the  Le  Ke,  or  "  Record  of  Rites,"  the  forma- 
tion of  the  text  of  which  will  be  treated  of  in  its  proper  place.  I 
will  only  say  here,  that  the  Book,  or  Books,  of  Rites  had  suffered 
much  more,  after  the  death  of  Confucius,  than  the  other  ancient 
Classics  which  had  been  collected  and  digested  by  him.  They  were 
in  a  more  dilapidated  condition  at  the  time  of  the  revival  of  the 
ancient  literature  under  the  Han  dynasty,  and  were  then  published 
in  three  collections,  only  one  of  which — the  Record  of  Rites — retains 
its  place*  among  the  King. 

The  Record  of  Rites  consists,  according  to  the  current  arrange- 
ment, of  49  Chapters  or  Books.  Lew  Heang  (see  ch.  I.  sect.  II.  2.) 
took  the  lead  in  its  formation,  and  was  followed  by  the  two  famous 
scholars,  Tae  Tih,i  and  his  relative,  Tae  Shing.2  The  first  of  these 
reduced  upwards  of  200  chapters,  collected  by  Heang,  to  89,  and 
Shing  reduced  these  again  to  46.  The  three  other  Books  were 
added  in  the  second  century  of  our  era,  The  Great  Learning  being 
one  of  them,  by  Ma  Yung,  mentioned  in  the  last  chapter,  section  III. 
2.    Since  his  time,  the  Work  has  not  received  any  further  additions. 

2.  In  his  note  appended  to  what  he  calls  the  chapter  of  "  Classical 
Text,"  Choo  He  says  that  the  tablets  of  the  "old  copies"  of  the  rest 
of  The  Great  Learning  were  considerably  out  of  order.  By  those  old 
copies,  he  intends  the  Work  of  Ch'ing  Heuen,  who  published  his  com- 
mentary on  the  Classic,  soon  after  it  was  completed  by  the  additions 
of  Ma  Yung ;  and  it  is  possible  that  the  tablets  were  in  confusion, 
and  had  not  been  arranged  with  sufficient  care ;  but  such  a  thing 

1  j&  flH*    2  J&  iii'  Stung  was  the  8on  °*  a  cousin  of  Tih't. 

J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


•id  ij  mSTORY  OT  THE  TEXT.  [piouwoiiwu. 

does  not  appear  to  have  been  suspected  until  the  12th  century,  nop 
can  any  authority  from  ancient  monuments  be  adduced  in  its  sup- 
port. 

I  have  related  how  the  ancient  Classics  were  cut  on  slabs  of  stone 
by  imperial  order,  a.d.  175,  the  text  being  that  which  the  various 
literati  had  determined,  and  which  had  been  adopted  by  Ch'ing 
Heuen.  The  same  work  was  performed  about  seventy  years  later, 
under  the  so-called  dynasty  of  Wei,  between  the  years  240  and  248, 
and  the  two  sets  of  slabs  were  set  up  together.  The  only  difference 
between  them  was,  that  whereas  the  Classics  had  been  cut  in  the 
first  instance  in  three  different  forms,  called,  the  Seal  character,  the 
Pattern  style,  and  the  Imperfect  form,  there  was  substituted  for  the 
latter  in  the  slabs  of  Wei  the  oldest  form  of  the  characters,  similar 
to  that  which  has  been  described  in  connection  with  the  discovery 
of  the  old  Lun  Yu  in  the  wall  of  Confucius'  house.  Amid  the 
changes  of  dynasties,  the  slabs  both  of  Han  and  Wei  had  perished, 
before  the  rise  of  the  T'ang  dynasty,  a.d.  624 ;  but  under  one  of  its 
emperors,  in  the  year  836,  a  copy  of  the  Classics  was  again  cut  on 
stone,  though  only  in  one  form  of  the  character.  These  slabs  we 
can  trace  down  through  the  Sung  dynasty,  when  they  were  known 
as  the  tablets  of  Shen.8  They  were  in  exact  conformity  with  the  text 
of  the  Classics  adopted  by  Ch'ing  Heuen  in  his  commentaries. 

The  Sung  dynasty  did  not  accomplish  a  similar  work  itself,  nor  has 
any  one  of  the  three  which  have  followed  it  thought  it  necessary 
to  engrave  in  stone  in  this  way  the  ancient  Classics.  About  the 
middle  of  the  16th  century,  however,  the  literary  world  in  China 
was  startled  by  a  report  that  the  slabs  of  Wei  which  contained 
The  Great  Learning  had  been  discovered.  But  this  was  nothing 
more  than  the  result  of  an  impudent  attempt  at  an  imposition, 
for  which  it  is  difficult  to  a  foreigner  to  assign  any  adequate  cause. 
The  treatise,  as  printed  from  these  slabs,  has  some  trifling  additions, 
and  many  alterations  in  the  order  of  the  text,  but  differing  from  the 
arrangements  proposed  by  Choo  He,  and  by  other  scholars.  There 
seems  to  be  now  no  difference  of  opinion  among  Chinese  critics  that 
the  whole  affair  was  a  forgery.  The  text  of  The  Great  Learning,  as 
it  appears  in  the  Book  of  Rites  with  the  commentary  of  Ch'ing 

23J  Digitized  by  GoOgk 


»»olioomsiu.]  THE  GREAT  LEABNING.  [ch.dl 

Heuen,  and  was  thrice  engraved  on  stone,  in  three  different  dynasties, 
is,  no  doubt,  that  which  was  edited  in  the  Han  dynasty  by  Ma  Yung. 

3.  I  have  said,  that  it  is  possible  that  the  tablets  containing  the 
text  were  not  arranged  with  sufficient  care  by  him,  and  indeed,  any 
one  who  studies  the  treatise  attentively,  will  probably  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  part  of  it  forming  the  first  six  chapters  of  com- 
mentary in  the  present  Work  is  but  a  fragment.  It  would  not  be  a 
difficult  task  to  propose  an  arrangement  of  the  text  different  from 
any  which  J  have  yet  seen ;  but  such  an  undertaking  would  not 
be  interesting  out  of  China.  My  object  here  is  simply  to  mention 
the  Chinese  scholars  who  have  rendered  themselves  famous  or  no- 
torious in  their  own  country,  by  what  they  have  done  in  this  way. 
The  first  was  Ching  Haou,  a  native  of  Loh-yang  in  Ho-nan  province, 
in  the  11th  century.4  His  designation  was  Pih-shun,  but  since  his 
death  he  has  been  known  chiefly  by  the  style  of  Ming.taou,5  which 
we  may  render  the  Wise-in-doctrine.  The  eulogies  heaped  on  him 
by  Choo  He  and  others  are  extravagant,  and  he  is  placed  immedi- 
ately after  Mencius  in  the  list  of  great  scholars.  Doubtless  he  was 
a  man  of  vast  literary  acquirements.  The  greatest  change  which  he 
introduced  into  The  Great  Learning,  was  to  read  sin*  for  fe4m,7  at 
the  commencement,  making  the  second  object  proposed  in  the  trea- 
tise to  be  the  renovation  of  the  people,  instead  of  loving  them.  This 
alteration  and  his  various  transpositions  of  the  text  are  found  in 
Maou  Se-ho's  treatise  on  "  The  attested  text  of  The  Great  Learning/* 

Hardly  less  illustrious  than  Ching  Haou  was  his  younger  brother 
Ch'ing  E,  known  by  the  style  of  Ching-shuh,9  and  since  his  death 
by  that  of  E-ch'uen.10  He  followed  Haou  in  the  adoption  of  the  read- 
ing " to  renovate"  instead  of  " to  love."  But  he  transposed  the  text 
differently,  more  akin  to  the  arrangement  afterwards  made  by  Choo 
He,  suggesting  also  that  there  were  some  superfluous  sentences  in  the 
old  text  which  might  conveniently  be  erased.  The  Work,  as  pro- 
posed to  be  read  by  him,  will  be  found  in  the  volume  of  Maou  just 
referred  to. 

We  come  to  the  name  of  Choo  He  who  entered  into  the  labours  of 
the  brothers  Ch'ing,  the  younger  of  whom  he  styles  his  Master,  in 
his  introductory  note  to  The  Great  Learning.     His  arrangement  of 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


•bct.i]  HISTORY  OF  THE  TEXT.  IrROhxaoumxA. 

the  text  is  that  now  current  in  all  the  editions  of  the  Four  Books, 
and  it  had  nearly  displaced  the  ancient  text  altogether.  The  sanc- 
tion of  Imperial  approval  was  given  to  it  during  the  Yuen  and  Ming 
dynasties.  In  the  editions  of  the  five  king  published  by  them,  only 
the  names  of  The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean  and  The  Great  Learning 
were  preserved.  No  text  of  these  Books  was  given,  and  Se-ho  tells 
us  that  in  the  reign  of  Kea-tsing,11  the  most  flourishing  period  of  the 
Ming  dynasty  (a.d.  1522-1566),  when  Wang  Wan-shing,12  published 
a  copy  of  The  Great  Learning,  taken  from  the  T'ang  edition  of  the 
Thirteen  King,  all  the  officers  and  scholars  looked  at  one  another  in 
astonishment,  and  were  inclined  to  suppose  that  the  Work  was  a 
forgery.  Besides  adopting  the  reading  of  sin  for  tsHn  from  the 
Chlng,  and  modifying  their  arrangements  of  the  text,  Choo  He 
made  other  innovations.  He  first  divided  the  whole  into  one  chap- 
ter of  Classical  text,  which  he  assigned  to  Confucius,  and  ten  chapters 
of  Commentary,  which  he  assigned  to  the  disciple  TsSng.  Previous 
to  him,  the  whole  had  been  published,  indeed,  without  any  specifi- 
cation of  chapters  and  paragraphs.  He  undertook,  moreover,  to 
supply  one  whole  chapter,  which  he  supposed,  after  his  master 
Ch'ing,  to  be  missing. 

Since  the  time  of  Choo  He,  many  scholars  have  exercised  their 
wit  on  The  Great  Learning.  The  Work  of  Maou  Se-ho  contains  four 
arrangements  of  the  text,  proposed  respectively  by  the  scholars  Wang 
Loo-chae,13  Ke  P'ang-san,u  Kaou  King-yih,15  and  Kd  Hoo-chen.16 
The  curious  student  may  examine  them  there. 

Under  the  present  dynasty,  the  tendency  has  been  to  depreciate 
the  labours  of  Choo  He.  The  integrity  of  the  text  of  Ch'ing 
Heuen  is  zealously  maintained,  and  the  simpler  method  of  interpreta- 
tion employed  by  him  is  advocated  in  preference  to  the  more  refined 
and  ingenious  schemes  of  the  Sung  scholars.  I  have  referred  several 
times  in  the  notes  to  a  Work  published  a  few  years  ago,  under  the 
title  of  "The  Old  Text  of  the  sacred  King,  with  Commentary  and 
Discussions,  by  Lo  Chung-fan  of  Nan-hae."17  I  knew  the  man  seven- 
teen years  ago.  He  was  a  fine  scholar,  and  had  taken  the  second 
degree,  or  that  of  Keu-jin.  He  applied  to  me  in  1843  for  Christian 
baptism,  and  offended  by  my  hesitancy  went  and  enrolled  himself 

"**»•  123E  £  J$ ■  »  3E  4  #  "  2p  %  Or  i*  K  M  & 

25J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


PROLEGOMRfjL]  THE   GREAT  LEARNING.  [ch.  in. 

among  the  disciples  of  another  Missionary.  He  soon,  however, 
withdrew  into  seclusion,  and  spent  the  last  years  of  his  life  in  literary 
studies.  His  family  have  published  the  work  on  The  Great  Learning, 
and  one  or  two  others.  He  most  vehemently  impugns  nearly  every 
judgment  of  Choo  He,  but  in  his  own  exhibitions  of  the  meaning  he 
blends  many  ideas  of  the  Supreme  Being  and  of  the  condition  of 
human  nature,  which  he  had  learned  from  the  Christian  Scriptures. 


SECTION  II. 

OF  THE  AUTHORSHIP,  AND  DISTINCTION  OF  THE  TEXT  INTO  CLASSICAL 

TEXT  AND  COMMENTARY. 

1.  The  authorship  of  The  Great  Learning  is  a  very  doubtful  point, 
and  one  on  which  it  does  not  appear  possible  to  come  to  a  decided 
conclusion.  Choo  He,  as  I  have  stated  in  the  last  section,  deter- 
mined that  so  much  of  it  was  king,  or  Classic,  being  the  very  words 
of  Confucius,  and  that  all  the  rest  was  chaen,  or  Commentar}',  being 
the  views  of  Tsang  Sin  upon  the  sage's  words,  recorded  by  his  dis- 
ciples. Thus,  he  does  not  expressly  attribute  the  composition  of 
the  Treatise  to  TsSng,  as  he  is  generally  supposed  to  do.  What  he 
says,  however,  as  it  is  destitute  of  external  support,  is  contrary  also 
to  the  internal  evidence.  The  4th  chapter  of  commentary  com- 
mences with  "  The  Master  said."  Surely,  if  there  were  anything 
more,  directly  from  Confucius,  there  would  be  an  intimation  of  it 
in  the  same  way.  Or,  if  we  may  allow  that  short  sayings  of  Con- 
fucius might  be  interwoven  with  the  Work,  as  in  the  15th  paragraph 
of  the  10th  chapter,  without  referring  them  expressly  to  him,  it  is 
too  much  to  ask  us  to  receive  the  long  chapter  at  the  beginning  as 
being  from  him.  With  regard  to  the  Work  having  come  from  the 
disciples  of  TsSng  Sin,  recording  their  master's  views,  the  paragraph 
in  chapter  6th,  commencing  with  u  The  disciple  Tsang  said,"  seems  to 
be  conclusive  against  that  hypothesis.  So  much  we  may  be  sure  is 
Tseng's,  and  no  more.  Both  of  Choo  He's  judgments  must  be  set 
aside.  We  cannot  admit  either  the  distinction  of  the  contents  into 
Classical  text  and  Commentary,  or  that  the  Work  was  the  produc- 
tion of  Tfcang's  disciples. 

26] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


sect,  m.]  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE.  [pbolegomema. 

2.  Who  then  was  the  author?  An  ancient  tradition  attributes  it 
to  K'ung  Keih,  the  grandson  of  Confucius.  In  a  notice  published, 
at  the  time  of  their  preparation,  about  the  stone  slabs  of  Wei,  the 
following  statement  by  Kea  Kwei,  a  noted  scholar  of  the  1st  century 
is  found : — "  When  K'ung  Keih  was  living,  and  in  straits,  in  Sung, 
being  afraid  lest  the  lessons  of  the  former  sages  should  become 
obscure,  and  the  principles  of  the  ancient  emperors  and  kings  fall 
to  the  ground,  he  therefore  made  The  Great  Learning  as  the  warp 
of  thera,  and  The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,  as  the  woof."1  This  would 
seem,  therefore,  to  have  been  the  opinion  of  that  early  time,  and  I 
may  say  the  only  difficulty  in  admitting  it  is  that  no  mention  is 
made  of  it  by  Ch'ing  Heuen.  There  certainly  is  that  agreement  be- 
tween the  two  treatises,  which  makes  their  common  authorship  not 
at  all  unlikely. 

3.  Though  we  cannot  positively  assign  the  authorship  of  The 
Great  Learning,  there  can  be  no  hesitation  in  receiving  it  as  a 
genuine  monument  of  the  Confucian  school.  There  are  not  many 
words  in  it  from  the  sage  himself,  but  it  is  a  faithful  reflection  of 
his  teachings,  written  by  some  of  his  followers,  not  far  removed 
from  him  by  lapse  of  time.  It  must  synchronize  pretty  nearly  with 
the  Analects,  and  may  be  safely  referred  to  the  fifth  century  before 
our  era. 

SECTION  III. 

ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE. 

1.  The  worth  of  The  Great  Learning  has  been  celebrated  in  most 
extravagant  terms  by  many  Chinese  writers,  and  there  have  been 
foreigners  who  have  not  yielded  to  them  in  their  estimation  of  it. 
Pauthier,  in  the  "  Argument  Philosophique,"  prefixed  to  his  trans- 
lation of  the  Work,  says : — "  It  is  evident  that  the  aim  of  the  Chinese 
philosopher  is  to  exhibit  the  duties  of  political  government  as  those 
of  the  perfecting  of  self,  and  of  the  practice  of  virtue  by  all  men. 
He  felt  that  he  had  a  higher  mission  than  that  with  which  the 
greater  part  of  ancient  and  modern  philosophers  have  contented 

B'%&m%T%®ftmz^^w>mifr5.z&mtic 

27]  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


rooumQHVXA.]  THE  GREAT  LEARNING.  [en.  m. 

themselves;  and  his  immense  love  for  the  happiness  of  humanity, 
which  dominated  over  all  his  other  sentiments,  has  made  of  his 
philosophy  a  system  of  social  perfectionating,  which,  we  venture  to 
say,  has  never  been  equalled." 

Very  different  is  the  judgment  passed  upon  the  treatise  by  a 
writer  in  the  Chinese  Repository : — "  The  Ta  Heo  is  a  short  politico- 
moral  discourse.  Ta  Heo,  or  '  Superior  Learning,'  is  at  the  same 
time  both  the  name  and  the  subject  of  the  discourse ;  it  is  the  ^m- 
mum  bonum  of  the  Chinese.  In  opening  this  Book,  compiled  by  a 
disciple  of  Confucius,  and  containing  his  doctrines,  we  might  expect 
to  find  a  Work  like  Cicero's  Be  Officiis ;  bnt  we  find  a  very  different 
production,  consisting  of  a  few  commonplace  rules  for  the  main- 
tenance of  a  good  government."1 

My  readers  will  perhaps  think,  after  reading  the  present  section, 
that  the  truth  lies  between  these  two  representations. 

2.  I  believe  that  the  Book  should  be  styled  Tae  Heo,  and  not 
Ta  Heo,  and  that  it  was  so  named  as  setting  forth  the  higher  and 
more  extensive  principles  of  moral  science,  which  come  into  use  and 
manifestation  in  the  conduct  of  government.  When  Choo  He  endea- 
vours to  make  the  title  mean — "  The  principles  of  Learning,  which 
were  taught  in  the  higher  schools  of  antiquity,"  and  tells  us  how  at 
the  age  of  15,  all  the  sons  of  the  emperor,  with  the  legitimate  sons  of 
the  nobles,  and  high  officers,  down  to  the  more  promising  scions  of 
the  common  people,  all  entered  these  seminaries,  and  were  taught  the 
difficult  lessons  here  inculcated,  we  pity  the  ancient  youth  of  China. 
Such  "  strong  meat "  is  not  adapted  for  the  nourishment  of  youthful 
minds.  But  the  evidence  adduced  for  the  existence  of  such  educa- 
tional institutions  in  ancient  times  is  unsatisfactory,  and  from  the 
older  interpretation  of  the  title  we  advance  more  easily  to  contem- 
plate the  object  and  method  of  the  Work. 

3.  The  object  is  stated  definitely  enough  in  the  opening  paragraph : 
« — "  What  The  Great  Learning  teaches,  is — to  illustrate  illustrious 
virtue ;  to  love  the  people ;  and  to  rest  in  the  highest  excellence." 
The  political  aim  of  the  writer  is  here  at  once  evident.  He  has  be- 
fore him  on  one  side,  the  people,  the  masses  of  the  empire,  and  over 
against  them  are  those  whose  work  and  duty,  delegated  by  Heaven, 

l  Chinese  Repository,  vol.  iii.  p.  98.  2  ^  ^,  not  ^  i§^.  See  the  note  on  the  title  of 
the  Work,  p.  219. 


28] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


■CT.m.]  ITS  SCOPB  AND  VALUE.  [psowwoinarA. 

is  to  govern  them,  culminating,  as  a  class,  in  "  the  son  of  Heaven,"* 
44  the  one  man,"4  the  emperor.  From  the  4th  and  5th  paragraphs, 
we  see  that  if  the  lessons  of  the  treatise  be  learned  and  carried  into 
practice,  the  result  will  be  that  "  illustrious  virtue  will  be  illustrated 
throughout  the  empire,"  which  will  be  brought,  through  all  its 
length  and  breadth,  to  a  condition  of  happy  tranquillity.  This 
object  is  certainly  both  grand  and  good ;  and  if  a  reasonable  and 
likely  method  to  secure  it  were  proposed  in  the  Work,  language 
would  hardly  supply  terms  adequate  to  express  its  value. 

4.  But  the  above  account  of  the  object  of  The  Great  Learning 
leads  us  to  the  conclusion  that  the  student  of  it  should  be  an 
emperor.  What  interest  can  an  ordinary  man  have  in  it?  It  is 
high  up  in  the  clouds,  far  beyond  his  reach.  This  is  a  serious 
objection  to  it,  and  quite  unfits  it  for  a  place  in  schools,  such  as 
Choo  He  contends  it  once  had.  Intelligent  Chinese,  whose  minds 
were  somewhat  quickened  by  Christianity,  have  spoken  to  me  of 
this  defect,  and  complained  of  the  difficulty  they  felt  in  making  the 
book  a  practical  directory  for  their  conduct.  "  It  is  so  vague  and 
vast,"  was  the  observation  of  one  man.  The  writer,  however,  has 
made  some  provision  for  the  general  application  of  his  instructions. 
He  tells  us  that,  from  the  emperor  down  to  the  mass  of  the  people,  all 
must  consider  the  cultivation  of  the  person  to  be  the  root,  that  is, 
the  first  thing  to  be  attended  to.*  As  in  his  method,  moreover,  he 
reaches  from  the  cultivation  of  the  person  to  the  tranquillization  of 
the  Empire,  through  the  intermediate  steps  of  the  regulation  of 
the  family,  and  the  government  of  the  State,«  there  is  room  for  set- 
ting  forth  principles  that  parents  and  rulers  generally  may  find 
adapted  for  their  guidance. 

5.  The  method  which  is  laid  down  for  the  attainment  of  the 
great  object  proposed,  consists  of  seven  steps : — the  investigation  of 
things;  the  completion  of  knowledge;  the  sincerity  of  the  thoughts; 
the  rectifying  of  the  heart ;  the  cultivation  of  the  person ;  the  regu- 
lation of  the  family ;  and  the  government  of  the  State.  These  form 
the  steps  of  a  climax,  the  end  of  which  is  the  empire  tranquillized. 
Pauthier  calls  the  paragraphs  where  they  occur  instances  of  the 
sorites,  or  abridged  syllogism.  But  they  belong  to  rhetoric,  and  not 
to  logic. 

8  Ji'f'i  CL  Text,  par.  6,  2.    4  — ^  Comm.  ix.  3.    6  CL  Text,  par.  6.   6  CL  Text,  parr.  4, 5. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


prolrgomeka.]  THE  GREAT  LEARNING.  [cn.m. 

6.  In  offering  some  observations  on  these  steps,  and  the  writer's 
treatment  of  them,  it  will  be  well  to  separate  them  into  those 
preceding  the  cultivation  of  the  person,  and  those  following  it ;  and 
to  deal  with  the  latter  first. — Let  us  suppose  that  the  cultivation  of 
the  person  is  all  attained,  every  discordant  mental  element  having 
been  subdued  and  removed.  It  is  assumed  that  the  regulation  of 
the  family  will  necessarily  flow  from  this.  Two  short  paragraphs 
are  all  that  are  given  to  the  illustration  of  the  point,  and  they  are 
vague  generalities  on  the  subject  of  men's  being  led  astray  by  their 
feelings  and  affections. 

The  family  being  regulated,  there  will  result  from  it  the  govern- 
ment of  the  State.  First,  the  virtues  taught  in  the  family  have  their 
correspondencies  in  the  wider  sphere.  Filial  piety  will  appear  as 
loyalty.  Fraternal  submission  will  be  seen  in  respect  and  obedience 
to  elders  and  superiors.  Kindness  is  capable  of  universal  application. 
Second,  "  From  the  loving  example  of  one  family,  a  whole  State 
becomes  loving,  and  from  its  courtesies  the  whole  State  becomes 
courteous. "7  Seven  paragraphs  suffice  to  illustrate  these  statements, 
and  short  as  they  are,  the  writer  goes  back  to  the  topic  of  self- 
cultivation,  returning  from  the  family  to  the  individual. 

The  State  being  governed,  the  whole  empire  will  become  peaceful 
and  happy.  There  is  even  less  of  connection,  however,  in  the  treat- 
ment of  this  theme,  between  the  premiss  and  the  conclusion,  than  in 
the  two  previous  chapters.  Nothing  is  said  about  the  relation  between 
the  whole  empire,  and  its  component  States,  or  any  one  of  them. 
It  is  said  at  once,  "  What  is  meant  by  '  The  making  the  whole  em- 
pire peaceful  and  happy  depends  on  the  government  of  the  State,' 
is  this. — When  the  sovereign  behaves  to  his  aged,  as  the  aged  should 
be  behaved  to,  the  people  become  filial ;  when  the  sovereign  behaves 
to  his  elders,  as  elders  should  be  behaved  to,  the  people  learn  bro- 
therly submission ;  when  the  sovereign  treats  compassionately  the 
young  and  helpless,  the  people  do  the  same."8  This  is  nothing  but 
a  repetition  of  the  preceding  chapter,  instead  of  that  chapter's  being 
made  a  step  from  which  to  go  on  to  the  splendid  consummation  of 
the  good  government  of  the  whole  empire. 

The  words  which  I  have  quoted  are  followed  by  a  very  striking 
enunciation  of  the  golden  rule  in  its  negative  form,  and  under  the 

7  See  Comm.  ix.  3.    8  See  Conim.  x.  L 

30] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


ascr.  in.]  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE.  [pbolbgomeha. 

name  of  iJie  measuring  square,  and  all  the  lessons  of  the  chapter  are 
connected  more  or  less  closely  with  that.  The  application  of  this 
principle  by  a  ruler,  whose  heart  is  in  the  first  place  in  loving 
sympathy  with  the  people,  will  guide  him  in  all  the  exactions  which 
he  lays  upon  them,  and  in  the  selection  of  ministers,  in  such  a  way  that 
he  will  secure  the  affections  of  his  subjects,  and  his  throne  will  be 
established,  for  "  by  gaining  the  people,  the  kingdom  is  gained,  and,  by 
losing  the  people,  the  kingdom  is  lost."9  There  are  in  this  part  of  the 
treatise  many  valuable  sentiments,  and  counsels  for  all  in  authority 
over  others.  The  objection  to  it  is,  that,  as  the  last  step  of  the 
climax,  it  does  not  rise  upon  all  the  others  with  the  accumulated 
force  of  their  conclusions,  but  introduces  us  to  new  principles  of 
action,  and  a  new  line  of  argument.  Cut  off  the  commencement  of 
the  first  paragraph  which  connects  it  with  the  preceding  chapters, 
and  it  would  form  a  brief  but  admirable  treatise  by  itself  on  the 
art  of  government. 

This  brief  review  of  the  writer  s  treatment  of  the  concluding  steps 
of  his  method  will  satisfy  the  reader  that  the  execution  is  not  equal 
to  the  design  {  and,  moreover,  underneath  all  the  reasoning,  and 
more  especially  apparent  in  the  8th  and  9th  chapters  of  commentary 
(according  to  the  ordinary  arrangement  of  the  work),  there  lies  the 
assumption  that  example  is  all  but  omnipotent.  We  find  this  prin- 
ciple pervading  all  the  Confucian  philosophy.  And  doubtless  it  is  a 
truth,  most  important  in  education  and  government,  that  the  influence 
of  example  is  very  great.  I  believe,  and  will  insist  upon  it  here- 
after in  these  prolegomena,  that  we  have  come  to  overlook  this 
element  in  our  conduct  of  administration.  .  It  will  be  well  if  the 
study  of  the  Chinese  Classics  should  call  attention  to  it.  Yet  in 
them  the  subject  is  pushed  to  an  extreme,  and  represented  in  an 
extravagant  manner.  Proceeding  from  the  view  of  human  nature 
that  it  is  entirely  good,  and  led  astray  only  by  influences  from  with- 
out, the  sage  of  China  and  his  followers  attribute  to  personal  exam- 
ple and  to  instruction  a  power  which  we  do  not  find  that  they 
actually  possess. 

7.  The  steps  which  precede  the  cultivation  of  the  person  are 
more  briefly  dealt  with  than  those  which  we  have  just  considered. 
"The  cultivation  of  the  person  results  from  the  rectifying  the  heart 

9  Couinu  z.  5. 


J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


rftoLBGOXBiu.]  THE  CHEAT  LEARNING.  [ch.  m. 

or  mind."10    True,  but  in  The  Great  Learning  very  inadequately 
set  forth. 

"The  rectifying  of  the  mind  is  realized  when  the  thoughts  are 
made  sincere."11  And  the  thoughts  are  sincere,  when  no  self-decep- 
tion is  allowed,  and  we  move  without  effort  to  what  is  right  and  wrong, 
"  as  we  love  what  is  beautiful,  and  as  we  hate  a  bad  smell."12  How 
are  we  to  attain  to  this  state?  Here  the  Chinese  moralist  fails  us. 
According  to  Choo  He's  arrangement  of  the  Treatise,  there  is  only 
one  sentence  from  which  we  can  frame  a  reply  to  the  above  question. 
"  Therefore,"  it  is  said,  "  the  superior  man  must  be  watchful  over 
himself  when  he  is  alone."13  Following  Choo's  6th  chapter  of  com- 
mentary, and  forming,  we  may  say,  part  of  it,  we  have  in  the  old  ar- 
rangement of  The  Great  Learning  all  the  passages  which  he  has 
distributed  so  as  to  form  the  previous  five  chapters.  But  even  from 
the  examination  of  them,  we  do  not  obtain  the  information  which 
we  desire  on  this  momentous  inquiry. 

8.  Indeed,  the  more  I  study  the  Work,  the  more  satisfied  I  become, 
that  from  the  conclusion  of  what  is  now  called  the  chapter  of 
Classical  text  to  the  sixth  chapter  of  Commentary,  wje  have  only  a 
few  fragments,  which  it  is  of  no  use  trying  to  arrange,  so  as  fairly 
to  exhibit  the  plan  of  the  author.  According  to  his  method,  the 
chapter  on  the  connection  between  making  the  thoughts  sincere  and 
so  rectifying  the  mental  nature,  should  be  preceded  by  one  on  the 
completion  of  knowledge  as  the  means  of  making  the  thoughts 
sincere,  and  that  again  by  one  on  the  completion  of  knowledge  by 
the  investigation  of  things,  or  whatever  else  the  phrase  hh  with 
may  mean.  I  am  less  concerned  for  the  loss  and  injury  which  this 
part  of  the  Work  has  suffered,  because  the  subject  of  the  connection 
between  intelligence  and  virtue  is  very  fully  exhibited  in  The  Doctrine 
of  the  Mean,  and  will  come  under  my  notice  in  the  review  of  that 
Treatise.  The  manner  in  which  Choo  He  has  endeavoured  to  supply 
the  blank  about  the  perfecting  of  knowledge  by  the  investigation  of 
things  is  too  extravagant.  "  The  Learning  for  Adults,"  he  says,  "  at 
the  outset  of  its  lessons,  instructs  the  learner,  in  regard  to  all  things 
in  the  world,  to  proceed  from  what  knowledge  he  has  of  their  prin- 
ciples, and  pursue  his  investigation  of  them,  till  he  reaches  the 
extreme  point.     After  exerting  himself  for  a  long  time,  he  will 

10  Comm.  vii.  1.    11  Comm.  Ch.  vi.    12  Comm.  yL  1.    13  Comm,  vi.  2. 

J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


»ct.  in.J  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE.  [prolbgommu. 

suddenly  find  himself  possessed  of  a  wide  and  far-reaching  penetra- 
tion. Then,  the  qualities  of  all  things,  whether  external  or  internal, 
the  subtle  or  the  coarse,  will  be  apprehended,  and  the  mind,  in  its 
entire  substance  and  its  relations  to  things,  will  be  perfectly  intelli- 
gent This  is  called  the  investigation  of  things.  This  is  called  the 
perfection  of  knowledge."14  And  knowledge  must  be  thus  perfected 
before  we  can  achieve  the  sincerity  of  our  thoughts,  and  the  rectifying 
of  our  hearts !  Verily  this  would  be  learning  not  for  adults  only,  but 
even  Methuselahs  would  not  be  able  to  compass  it.  Yet  for  centuries 
this  has  been  accepted  as  the  orthodox  exposition  of  the  Classic. 
Lo  Chung-fan  does  not  express  himself  too  strongly  when  he  says 
that  such  language  is  altogether  incoherent.  The  author  would 
only  be  "  imposing  on  himself  and  others." 

9.  The  orthodox  doctrine  of  China  concerning  the  connection 
between  intelligence  and  virtue  is  most  seriously  erroneous,  but  I 
will  not  lay  to  the  charge  of  the  author  of  The  Great  Learning  the 
wild  representations  of  the  commentator  of  the  twelfth  century,  nor 
need  I  make  here  any  remarks  on  what  the  doctrine  really  is.  After 
the  exhibition  which  I  have  given,  my  readers  will  probably  conclude 
that  the  Work  before  us  is  far  from  developing,  as  Pauthier  asserts, 
"a  system  of  social  perfectionating  which  has  never  been  equalled." 

10.  The  Treatise  has  undoubtedly  great  merits,  but  they  are  not 
to  be  sought  in  the  severity  of  its  logical  processes,  or  the  large- 
minded  prosecution  of  any  course  of  thought.  We  shall  find  them 
in  the  announcement  of  certain  seminal  principles,  which,  if  recog- 
nized in  government  and  the  regulation  of  conduct,  would  conduce 
greatly  to  the  happiness  and  virtue  of  mankind.  I  will  conclude 
these  observations  by  specifying  four  such  principles. 

First,  The  writer  conceives  nobly  of  the  object  of  government, 
that  it  is  to  make  its  subjects  happy  and  good.  This  may  not  be  a 
sufficient  account  of  that  object,  but  it  is  much  to  have  it  so  clearly 
laid  down  to  "  all  kings  and  governors,"  that  they  are  to  love  the 
people,  ruling  not  for  their  own  gratification,  but  for  the  good  of 
those  over  whom  they  are  exalted  by  Heaven.  Very  important  also  is 
the  statement  that  rulers  have  no  divine  right  but  what  springs  from 
the  discharge  of  their  duty.     "The  decree  does  not  always  rest 

U  Suppl.  to  Comm.  Ch.  r. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


raoLEGOMMiA.]  THE  GREAT  LEARNING.  [ch.  m. 

on  them.      Goodness  obtains  it,   and  the  want  of  goodness  loses 

it."** 

Second,  The  insisting  on  personal  excellence  in  all  who  have  authori- 
ty in  the  family,  the  State,  and  the  empire,  is  a  great  moral  and 
social  principle.  The  influence  of  such  personal  excellence  may  be 
overstated,  but  by  the  requirement  of  its  cultivation  the  writer  de- 
served well  of  his  country. 

'Third,  Still  more  important  than  the  requirement  of  such  excel- 
lence, is  the  principle  that  it  must  be  rooted  in  the  state  of  the  heart, 
and  be  the  natural  outgrowth  of  internal  sincerity.  "As  a  man 
thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  This  is  the  teaching  alike  of  Solo- 
mon and  the  author  of  The  Great  Learning. 

Fourth,  I  mention  last  the  striking  exhibition  which  we  have  of 
the  golden  rule,  though  only  in  its  negative  form.  "  What  a  man 
dislikes  in  his  superiors,  let  him  not  display  in  the  treatment  of  his 
inferiors ;  what  he  dislikes  in  inferiors,  let  him  not  display  in  his 
service  of  his  superiors ;  what  he  dislikes  in  those  who  are  before 
him,  let  him  not  therewith  precede  those  who  are  behind  him; 
what  he  dislikes  in  those  who  are  behind  him,  let  him  not  therewith 
follow  those  who  are  before  him ;  what  he  dislikes  to  receive  on  the 
right,  let  him  not  bestow  on  the  left;  what  he  dislikes  to  receive  on 
the  left,  let  him  not  bestow  on  the  right : — this  is  what  is  called  the 
principle  with  which,  as  with  a  measuring  square,  to  regulate  one's 
conduct."16 

The  Work  which  contains  those  principles  cannot  be  thought 
meanly  of.  The)'  are  "commonplace,"  as  the  writer  in  the  Chinese 
Repository  calls  them,  but  they  are  at  the  same  time  eternal  verities. 

15  Comm.  x.  11.    16  Comm.  x.  2. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


•*▼-]  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN.  Orolbgomexa. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 
SECTION  L 

ITS  PLACE  IN  THE  LE  KE,  AND  ITS  PUBLICATION  SEPARATELY. 

1.  The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean  was  one  of  the  treatises  which  came 
to  light  in  connection  with  the  labours  of  Lew  Heang,  and  its  place 
as  the  31st  Book  in  the  Le  Ke  was  finally  determined  by  Ma  Yung 
and  Ch'ing  Heueni 

2.  But  while  it  was  thus  made  to  form  a  part  of  the  great  collec- 
tion of  Works  on  Ceremonies,  it  maintained  a  separate  footing  of  its 
own.  In  Lew  Hin's  catalogue  of  the  Classical  Works,  we  find  "  Two 
l^een  of  Observations  on  the  Chung  Yung."1  In  the  Records  of  the 
dynasty  of  Suy  (a.d.  589-617),  in  the  chapter  on  the  History  of 
Literature,2  there  are  mentioned  three  Works  on  the  Chung  Yung; 
— the  first  called  "The  Record  of  the  Chung  Yung/'  in  two  keuen, 
attributed  to  Tae  Yung,  a  scholar  who  flourished  about  the  middle 
of  the  5th  century;  the  second,  "  A  Paraphrase  and  Commentary  on 
the  Chung  Yung,"  attributed  to  the  emperor  Woo  (a.d.  502-549) 
of  the  Leang  dynasty,  in  one  keuen,  and  the  third,  "  A  Private  Re- 
cord, Determining  the  Meaning  of  the  Chung  Yung,"  in  five  kenen, 
the  author,  or  supposed  author,  of  which  is  not  mentioned.8 

It  thus  appears,  that  the  Chung  Yung  had  been  published  and  com- 
mented on  separately,  long  before  the  time  of  the  Sung  dynasty. 
The  scholars  of  that,  however,  devoted  special  attention  to  it,  the 
way  being  led  by  the  famous  Chow  Leen-k'e.4  He  was  followed  by 
the  two  brothers  Ch'ing,  but  neither  of  them  published  upon  it.  At 
last  came  Choo  He,  who  produced  his  Work  called  u  The  Chung 

>♦*«-«.  ■»##  =  +  -.*#-  +  -&.£!&■ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


PBOLBGOXEici.]  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN.  [ch.it. 

Yung,  in  Chapters  and  Sentences,"5  which  was  made  the  text  book 
of  the  Classic  at  the  literary  examinations,  by  the  fourth  Emperor 
of  the  Yuen  dynasty  (a.d.  1312-1320),  and  from  that  time  the 
name  merely  of  the  Treatise  was  retained  in  editions  of  the  Le  Ke. 
Neither  text  nor  ancient  commentary  was  given. 

Under  the  present  dynasty  it  is  not  so.  In  the  superb  edition 
of  "The  Five  King"  edited  by  a  numerous  committee  of  scholars 
towards  the  end  of  K'ang  He's  reign,  the  Chung  Yung  is  published 
in  two  parts,  the  ancient  commentaries  from  "The  Thirteen  King" 
being  given  side  by  side  with  those  of  Choo  He. 

SECTION  II. 

ITS  AUTHOR ;  AND  SOME  ACCOUNT  OF  HIM. 

1.  The  composition  of  the  Chung  Yung  is  attributed  to  K'ung 
Keih,  the  grandson  of  Confucius.  Chinese  inquirers  and  critics  are 
agreed  on  this  point,  and  apparently  on  sufficient  grounds.  There 
is  indeed  no  internal  evidence  in  the  Work  to  lead  us  to  such  a  con- 
clusion. Among  the  many  quotations  of  Confucius'  words  and  refe- 
rences to  him,  we  might  have  expected  to  find  some  indication  that 
the  sage  was  the  grandfather  of  the  author,  but  nothing  of  the  kind 
is  given.  The  external  evidence,  however,  or  that  from  the  testi- 
mony of  authorities,  is  very  strong.  In  Sze-ma  Ts'een's  Historical 
Records,  published  B.C.  103,  it  is  expressly  said  that  "  Tsze-sze  made 
the  Chung  Yung."  And  we  have  a  still  stronger  proof,  a  century 
earlier,  from  Tsze-sze's  own  descendant,  K'ung  Foo,  whose  words 
are,  " Tsze-sze  compiled  the  Chung  Yung  in  49 pLeeri"*  We  may, 
therefore,  accept  the  received  account  without  hesitation. 

2.  As  Keih,  spoken  of  chiefly  by  his  designation  of  Tsze-sze,  thus 
occupies  a  distinguished  place  in  the  classical  literature  of  China,  it 

Foo  ( jfl,  mjsf)  was  that  descendant  of  Confucius,  who  hid  several  books  in  the  wall  of  bis  house, 
on  the  issuing  of  the  imperial  edict  for  their  burning.  He  was  a  writer  himself,  and  his  Works  are 
referred  to  under  the  title  of  3^  jg  -jp\     I  have  not  seen  them,  but  the  statement  given 

.bove  i,  found  in  the  ^  f  £  fa  ft  art.  $  ^.-ft  £  ^  ^  f-  gg 

36] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


■ect.ii.]  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  AUTHOR.  [raoLBaoireiCA. 

may  not  be  out  of  place  to  bring  together  here  a  few  notices  of  him 
gathered  from  reliable  sources. 

He  was  the  son  of  Le,  whose  death  took  place  B.C.  482,  four  years 
before  that  of  the  sage,  his  father.  I  have  not  found  it  recorded  in 
what  year  he  was  born.  Sze-ma  Ts'een  says  he  died  at  the  age  of 
62.  But  this  is  evidently  wrong,  for  we  learn  from  Mencius  that 
he  was  high  in  favour  with  the  duke  Muh  of  Loo,3  whose  accession 
to  that  principality  dates  in  B.C.  408,  seventy  years  after  the  death 
of  Confucius.  In  the  "  Plates  and  Notices  of  the  Worthies,  sacrificed 
to  in  the  Sage's  Temples,"4  it  is  supposed  that  the  62  in  the  Historical 
Records  should  be  82.5  It  is  maintained  by  others  that  Tsze-sze's 
life  was  protracted  beyond  100  years.6  This  variety  of  opinions 
simply  shows  that  the  point  cannot  be  positively  determined.  To 
me  it  seems  that  the  conjecture  in  the  Sacrificial  Canon  must  be 
pretty  near  the  truth.7 

During  the  years  of  his  boyhood,  then,  Tsze-sze  must  have  been 
with  his  grandfather,  and  received  his  instructions.  It  is  related, 
that  one  day,  wrhen  he  was  alone  with  the  sage,  and  heard  him 
sighing,  he  went  up  to  him,  and,  bowing  twice,  inquired  the  reason 
of  his  grief.  "  Is  it,"  said  he,  "  because  you  think  that  your  descen- 
dants, through  not  cultivating  themselves,  will  be  unworthy  of  you? 
Or  is  it  that,  in  your  admiration  of  the  ways  of  Yaou  and  Shun,  you 
are  vexed  that  you  fall  short  of  them  ?  "  "  Child,"  replied  Confucius, 
"how  is  it  that  you  know  my  thoughts?"  "I  have  often,"  said 
Tsze-sze,  "  heard  from  you  the  lesson,  that  when  the  father  has  gather- 
ed and  prepared  the  firewood,  if  the  son  cannot  carry  the  bundle,  he 
is  to  be  pronounced  degenerate  and  unworthy.  The  remark  comes 
frequently  into  my  thoughts,  and  fills  me  with  great  apprehensions." 
The  sage  was  delighted.     He  smiled  and  said,  "  Now,  indeed,  shall 

*C  I5fc"  82  and  62  may  more  easi^y  **  confounded,  as  written  in  Chinese  than  with  the  Roman 
figures.  6  See  the  [rt{  ^  j||  |g,  on  the  preface  to  the  Chung  Yung,— 4p  "g*  ^  Jfe  T^T . 
7  Le  himself  was  born  in  Confucius'  2lst  year,  and  if  Tsze-sze  had  been  born  in  Le's  21st  year,  he 
must  hare  been  103  at  the  time  of  duke  Muh*s  accession.  But  the  tradition  is,  that  Tsze-sze  was 
a  pupil  of  Tslng  Sin  who  was  born  bx.  504.  We  must  place  his  birth  therefore  considerably 
later,  and  suppose  him  to  hare  been  quite  young  when  his  father  died.  I  was  talking  once  about 
the  question  with  a  Chinese  friend,  who  observed : — "  Le  was  50  when  he  died,  and  his  wife  married 
again  into  a  family  of  Wei.  We  can  hardly  think,  therefore,  that  she  was  any  thing  like  that 
age.  Le  could  not  have  married  so  soon  as  his  father  did.  Perhaps  he  was  about  40  when  Keih 
vat  bora." 

3    J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


MOUMJomwA.]  THE  DOCTRINE  OF   THE  MEAN.  [ch.it. 

I  be  without  anxiety !      My  undertakings  will  not  come  to  nought. 
They  will  be  carried  on  and  flourish,"8 

After  the  death  of  Confucius,  Keih  became  a  pupil,  it  is  said,  of  the 
philosopher  Ts&ng.  But  he  received  his  instructions  with  discrimi- 
nation, and  in  one  instance  which  is  recorded  in  the  Le  Ke,  the 
pupil  suddenly  took  the  place  of  the  master.  We  there  read : — 
"  Ts&ng  said  to  Tsze-sze,  4  Keih,  when  I  was  engaged  in  mourning  for 
my  parents,  neither  congee  nor  water  entered  my  mouth  for  seven 
days.'  Tsze-sze  answered,  *  In  ordering  their  rules  of  propriety,  it 
was  the  design  of  the  ancient  kings  that  those  who  would  go  beyond 
them  should  stoop  and  keep  by  them,  and  that  those  who  could 
hardly  reach  them  should  stand  on  tiptoe  to  do  so.  Thus  it  is  that 
the  superior  man,  in  mourning  for  his  parents,  when  he  has  been 
three  days  without  water  or  congee,  takes  a  staff  to  enable  himself 
to  rise."9 

While  he  thus  condemned  the  severe  discipline  of  Ts&ng,  Tsze- 
sze  appears  in  various  incidents  which  are  related  of  him,  to  have 
been  himself  more  than  sufficiently  ascetic.  As  he  was  living  in 
great  poverty,  a  friend  supplied  him  with  grain,  which  he  readily 
received.  Another  friend  was  emboldened  by  this  to  send  him  a  bot- 
tle of  wine,  but  he  declined  to  receive  it.  "  You  receive  your  corn 
from  other  people,"  urged  the  donor,  "and  why  should  you  decline 
my  gift,  which  is  of  less  value  ?  You  can  assign  no  ground  in  rea- 
son for  it,  and  if  you  wish  to  show  your  independence,  you  should 
do  so  completely."  "  I  am  so  poor,"  was  the  reply,  "  as  to  be  in  want, 
and  being  afraid  lest  I  should  die  and  the  sacrifices  not  be  offered 
to  my  ancestors,  I  accept  the  grain  as  an  alms.  But  the  wine  and 
the  dried  flesh  which  you  offer  to  me  are  the  appliances  of  a  feast. 
For  a  poor  man  to  be  feasting  is  certainly  unreasonable.  This  is 
the  ground  of  my  refusing  your  gift.  I  have  no  thought  of  assert- 
ing my  independence."10 

To  the  same  effect  is  the  account  of  Tsze-sze,  which  we  have  from 
Lew  Heang.  That  scholar  relates : — "  When  Keih  was  living  in  Wei, 
he  wore  a  tattered  coat,  without  any  lining,  and  in  30  days  had  only 
9  meals.  T'een  Tsze-fang  having  heard  of  his  distress,  sent  a  mes- 
senger to  him  with  a  coat  of  fox-fur,  and  being  afraid  that  he  might 

8  See  the  PH  f£  4j|  §8f ,  in  the  place  just  quoted  from.  For  the  incident  we  are  indebted 
to  K*ung  Foo;  see  note  2,    9.  Le  Ke,  II.  Pt.  I.  ii.  7.    10,  11  Sec  the  PH  ^  ^  |g,  as  above. 

38] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


i«CT.  uj  ACCOUNT  OF  ITS  AUTHOR.  [fboltoommu. 

not  receive  it,  he  added  the  message, — i  When  I  borrow  from  a  man, 
1  forget  it ;  when  I  give  a  thing,  I  part  with  it  freely  as  if  I  threw  it 
away.'  Tsze-sze  declined  the  gift  thus  offered,  and  when  Tsze-fang 
said,  'I  have,  and  you  have  not;  why  will  you  not  take  it?'  he 
replied,  '  You  give  away  so  rashly,  as  if  you  were  casting  your  things 
into  a  ditch.  Poor  as  I  am,  I  cannot  think  of  my  body  as  a  ditch, 
and  do  not  presume  to  accept  your  gift.1'11 

Tsze-sze's  mother  married  again,  after  Le's  death,  into  a  family  of 
Wei.  But  this  circumstance,  which  is  not  at  all  creditable  in  Chinese 
estimation,  did  not  alienate  his  affections  from  her.  He  was  in  Loo 
when  he  heard  of  her  death,  and  proceeded  to  weep  in  the  temple  of 
his  family.  A  disciple  came  to  him  and  said,  "  Your  mother  married 
again  into  the  family  of  the  Shoo,  and  do  you  weep  for  her  in  the 
temple  of  the  K'ung?  "  "  I  am  wrong,"  said  Tsze-sze,  "  I  am  wrong;*1 
and  with  these  words  he  went  to  weep  elsewhere.12 

In  his  own  married  relation  he  does  not  seem  to  have  been  happy, 
and  for  some  cause,  which  has  not  been  transmitted  to  us,  he  divorced 
his  wife,  following  in  this,  it  would  appear,  the  example  of  Confucius. 
On  her  death,  her  son,  Tsze-shang,13  did  not  undertake  any  mourn- 
ing for  her.  Tsze-sze's  disciples  were  surprised  and  questioned  him. 
"  Did  not  your  father,"  they  asked,  "  mourn  for  his  mother  who 
had  been  divorced?"  "Yes,"  was  the  reply.  "Then  why  do  you 
not  cause  Pih14  to  mourn  for  his  mother?"  Tsze-sze  answered,  "My 
father  failed  in  nothing  to  pursue  the  proper  path.  His  observances 
increased  or  decreased  as  the  case  required.  But  I  cannot  attain  to 
this.  While  she  was  my  wife,  she  was  Pih's  mother ;  when  she 
ceased  to  be  my  wife,  she  ceased  to  be  Pih's  mother."  The  custom 
of  the  K'ung  family  not  to  mourn  for  a  mother  who  had  left  it 
herself,  or  been  divorced,  took  its  rise  from  Tsze-sze.16 

These  few  notices  of  K'ung  Keih  in  his  more  private  relations 
bring  him  before  us  as  a  man  of  strong  feeling  and  strong  will,  in- 
dependent, and  with  a  tendency  to  asceticism  in  his  habits. 

As  a  public  character,  we  find  him  at  the  ducal  courts  of  Wei, 
Sung,  Loo,  and  Pe,  and  at  each  of  them  held  in  high  esteem  by  the 

12  See  the  Le  Ke,  II.  Pt.  II.  iii.  15.    jflj  ^  £  -fljr  5g  must  be  understood  as  I  have  done 

above,  and  not  with  Ch'ing  Hcuen,— -w  Your  mother  was  born  a  Miss  Shoo."    13  ■?-    h,— this 

was  the  designation  of  Tszc-sze's  son.  14  f^J , — tliis  was  Tsze-shang**  name.  15  See  the  Le  Ke, 
U.PULL4- 

-*  Digitized  by  G00gle 


raouBOOMMM.]  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN.  [en.  iy. 

rulers.  To  Wei  he  was  carried  probably  by  the  fact  of  his  mother 
having  married  into  that  State.  We  are  told  that  the  prince  of  Wei 
received  him  with  great  distinction  and  lodged  him  honourably. 
On  one  occasion  he  said  to  him,  "  An  officer  of  the  State  of  Loo, 
you  have  not  despised  this  small  and  narrow  Wei,  but  have  bent 
your  steps  hither  to  comfort  and  preserve  it ; — vouchsafe  to  confer 
your  benefits  upon  me."  Tsze-sze  replied,  "If  I  should  wish  to 
requite  your  princely  favour  with  money  and  silks,  your  treasuries 
are  already  full  of  them,  and  I  am  poor.  If  I  should  wish  to  requite 
it  with  good  words,  I  am  afraid  that  what  I  should  say  would  not 
suit  your  ideas,  so  that  I  should  speak  in  vain,  and  not  be  listened 
to.  The  only  way  in  which  I  can  requite  it,  is  by  recommending 
to  your  notice  men  of  worth."  The  duke  said,  "  Men  of  worth  is 
exactly  what  I  desire."  "  Nay,"  said  Keih,  "  you  are  not  able  to 
appreciate  them."  "  Nevertheless,"  was  the  reply,  "  I  should  like  to 
hear  whom  you  consider  deserving  that  name."  Tsze-sze  replied, 
"  Do  you  wish  to  select  your  officers  for  the  name  they  may  have, 
or  for  their  reality  ?"  "  For  their  reality,  certainly,"  said  the  duke. 
His  guest  then  said,  "  In  the  eastern  borders  of  your  State,  there  is 
one  Le  Yyi,  who  is  a  man  of  real  worth."  "  What  were  his  grand- 
father and  father?"  asked  the  duke.  " They  were  husbandmen," 
was  the  reply,  on  which  the  duke  broke  into  a  loud  laugh,  saying, 
"  I  do  not  like  husbandry.  The  son  of  a  husbandman  cannot  be  fit 
for  me  to  employ.  I  do  not  put  into  office  all  the  cadets  of  those 
families  even  in  which  office  is  hereditary."  Tsze-sze  observed,  "  I 
mention  Le  Yin  because  of  his  abilities ;  what  has  the  fact  of  his 
forefathers  being  husbandmen  to  do  with  the  case  ?  And  moreover, 
the  duke  of  Chow  was  a  great  sage,  and  K'ang-shuh  was  a  great 
worthy.  Yet  if  you  examine  their  beginnings,  you  will  find  that 
from  the  business  of  husbandry  they  came  forth  to  found  their 
States.  I  did  certainly  have  my  doubts  that  in  the  selection  of  your 
officers  you  did  not  have  regard  to  their  real  character  and  capacity." 
With  this  the  conversation  ended.     The  duke  was  silent.16 

Tsze-sze  was  naturally  led  to  K'ung,  as  the  Sung  family  originally 
sprang  from  that  principality.     One  account,  quoted  in  "  The  Four 


leSeetheJ^&fg,^  —  W  — •  H  J*' H  #' 

40] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


racT  ii.]  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  AUTIIOR.  [rooLBGOMnrA, 

Books,  Text  and  Commentary,  with  Proofs  and  Illustrations,"17 
says  that  he  went  thither  in  his  16th  year,  and  having  foiled  an 
officer  of  the  State,  named  Yo  So,  in  a  conversation  on  the  Shoo- 
king,  his  opponent  was  so  irritated  at  the  disgrace  put  on  him  by  a 
youth,  that  he  listened  to  the  advice  of  evil  counsellors,  and  made  an 
attack  on  him  to  put  him  to  death.  The  duke  of  Sung,  hearing  the 
tumult,  hurried  to  the  rescue,  and  when  Keih  found  himself  in  safety, 
he  said,  "  When  king  AY&ii  was  imprisoned  in  Yew-le,  he  made  the 
Yih  of  Chow.  My  grandfather  made  the  Ch'un  Ts'ew  after  he  had 
been  in  danger  in  Ch'in  and  Ts'ae.  Shall  I  not  make  something 
when  rescued  from  such  a  risk  in  Sung  ?  "  Upon  this  he  made  the 
Chung  Yung  in  49  p'een. 

According  to  this  account,  the  Chung  Yung  was  the  work  of  Tsze- 
szes  early  manhood,  and  the  tradition  has  obtained  a  wonderful 
prevalence.  The  notice  in  "The  Sacrificial  Canon"  says,  on  the 
contrary,  that  it  was  the  work  of  his  old  age,  when  he  had  finally 
settled  in  Loo,  which  is  much  more  likely.18 

Of  Tsze-sze  in  Pe,  which  could  hardly  be  said  to  be  out  of  Loo, 
we  have  only  one  short  notice, — in  Mencius,  V.  Pt.  II.  iii.  3,  where 
the  duke  Hwuy  of  Pe  is  introduced  as  saying,  "  I  treat  Tsze-sze  as 
my  master." 

We  have  fuller  accounts  of  him  in  Loo  where  he  spent  all  the 
latter  years  of  his  life,  instructing  his  disciples  to  the  number  of 
several  hundred,19  and  held  in  great  reverence  by  the  duke  Muh. 
The  duke  indeed  wanted  to  raise  him  to  the  highest  office,  but  he 
declined  this,  and  would  only  occupy  the  position  of  a  "  guide,  philoso- 
pher, and  friend."  Of  the  attention  which  he  demanded,  however, 
instances  will  be  found  in  Mencius,  II.  Pt.  1 1,  xi.  3 ;  V.  Pt.  II.  vi.  5,  and 
vii.  3.  In  his  intercourse  with  the  duke  he  spoke  the  truth  to  him 
fearlessly.  In  the  "  Cyclopaedia  of  Surnames,"20  I  find  the  following 
conversations,  but  I  cannot  tell  from  what  source  they  are  extracted 
into  that  Work. — "  One  day,  the  duke  said  to  Tsze-sze,  *  The  officer 

17  This  is  the  Work  so  often  referred  to  as  the  |Jl|  j£  $!§§,  the  full  title  being  [7£j  fff  $£ 
It  3H  15-  ^he  P"**^6  here  translated  from  it  will  be  found  in  the  place  several  times  re- 
ferred to  in  this  section.  18  The  author  of  the  JJtj  jft  tjBfjE  $k  |j£  adopts  the  view  that  the 
Work  was  composed  in  Sung.  Some  have  advocated  this  from  ch.  xxviii.  ">,  compared  with  Ana. 
HI.  «.,  "it  being  proper,"  they  say,  "  that  Tsze-sze,  writing  in  Sung,  should  not  depreciate  it  as 
Coafucius  had  done,  out  of  it ! "  10  See  iu  the  *  Sacrificial  Canon,'  on  Tsze-sze.  20  This 

is  the  Work  referred  to  in  note  14 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


fbolboomkha.]  THE   DOCTRINE   OF   THE   MEAN.  [en.  it. 

Heen  told  me  that  you  do  good  without  wishing  for  any  praise  from 
men; — is  it  so?'  Tsze-sze  replied,  'No,  that  is  not  my  feeling. 
When  I  cultivate  what  is  good,  I  wish  men  to  know  it,  for  when 
they  know  it  and  praise  me,  1  feel  encouraged  to  be  more  zealous  in 
the  cultivation.  This  is  what  I  desire,  and  am  not  able  to  obtain. 
If  I  cultivate  what  is  good,  and  men  do  not  know  it,  it  is  likely  that 
in  their  ignorance  they  will  speak  evil  of  me.  So  by  my  good-doing 
1  only  come  to  be  evil  spoken  of.  This  is  what  I  do  not  desire,  but 
am  not  able  to  avoid.  In  the  case  of  a  man,  who  gets  up  at  cock- 
crowing  to  practise  what  is  good,  and  continues  sedulous  in  the 
endeavour  till  midnight,  and  says  at  the  same  time  that  he  does 
not  wish  men  to  know  it,  lest  they  should  praise  him,  I  must  say  of 
such  a  man,  that  if  he  be  not  deceitful  he  is  stupid.' " 

Another  day,  the  duke  asked  Tsze-sze  saying,  "  Can  my  State  be 
made  to  flourish."  "  It  may,"  was  the  reply.  "  And  how  ?"  Tsze- 
sze  said,  "  0  prince,  if  you  and  your  ministers  Mill  only  strive  to 
realize  the  government  of  the  duke  of  Chow  and  of  Pih-k'in  ;  practis- 
ing their  transforming  principles,  sending  forth  wide  the  favours  of 
your  ducal  house,  and  not  letting  advantages  flow  in  private  chan- 
nels ; — if  you  will  thus  conciliate  the  affections  of  the  people,  and 
at  the  same  time  cultivate  friendly  relations  with  neighbouring 
States,  your  kingdom  will  soon  begin  to  flourish." 

On  one  occasion,  the  duke  asked  whether  it  had  been  the  custom 
of  old  for  ministers  to  go  into  mourning  for  a  prince  whose  service 
and  State  they  had  left.  Tsze-sze  replied  to  him,  "  Of  old,  princes 
advanced  their  ministers  to  office  according  to  propriety,  and  dis- 
missed them  in  the  same  way,  and  hence  there  was  that  rule.  But 
now-a-days,  princes  bring  their  ministers  forward  as  if  they  were  going 
to  take  them  on  their  knees,  and  send  them  away  as  if  they  would 
cast  them  into  an  abyss.  If  they  do  not  treat  them  as  their  greatest 
enemies,  it  is  well. — How  can  you  expect  the  ancient  practice  to  be 
observed  in  such  circumstances?"21 

These  instances  may  suffice  to  illustrate  the  character  of  Tsze-sze, 
as  it  was  displayed  in  his  intercourse  with  the  princes  of  his  time. 
We  see  the  same  independence  which  he  affected  in  private  life,  and 
a  dignity  not  unbecoming  the  grandson  of  Confucius.  But  we  miss 
the  reach  of  thought  and  capacity  for  administration  which  belonged 

21  This  conversation  is  given  in  the  Lc  Ke,  II.  Ft.  II.  ii.  1. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


*CT.i«.]  ITS   INTEGRITY,  [pholeooitcra. 

to  the  Sage.  It  is  with  him,  however,  as  a  thinker  and  writer  that 
we  have  to  do,  and  his  rank  in  that  capacity  will  appear  from  the 
examination  of  the  Chung  Yung  in  the  section  that  follows.  His 
place  in  the  temples  of  the  Sage  has  been  that  of  one  of  his  four 
assessors,  since  the  year  1267.  He  ranks  with  Yen  Hwuv,  IVang 
Sin,  and  Mencius,  and  bears  the  title  of  "The  Philosopher  Tsze-sze, 
Transmitter  of  the  Sage.'22 

SECTION  III. 

ITS  INTROMIT. 

1.  In  the  testimony  of  K'ung  Foo,  which  has  been  adduced  to 
prove  the  authorship  of  the  Chung  Yung,  it  is  said  that  the  Work 
consisted  originally  of  49  pKeen.  From  this  statement  it  is  argued  by 
some,  that  the  arrangement  of  it  in  33  chapters,  which  originated 
with  Choo  He,  is  wrong;1  but  this  does  not  affect  the  question  of 
integrity,  and  the  character  p'ejn  is  so  vague  and  indefinite,  that  we 
cannot  affirm  that  IvHmg  Foo  meant  to  tell  us  by  it  that  Tsze-sze 
himself  divided  his  Treatise  into  so  many  paragraphs  or  chapters. 

It  is  on  the  entry  in  Lew  Hill's  catalogue,  quoted  Section  1, — 
"Twojfeen  of  observations  on  the  Chung  Yung,"  that  the  integrity 
of  the  present  Work  is  called  in  question.  Yen  Sze-koo,  of  the 
T4ang  dynasty,  has  a  note  on  that  entry  to  the  effect: — "There  is 
now  the  Chung  Yung  in  the  Le  Ke  in  one  jt'een.  But  that  is  not 
the  original  Treatise  here  mentioned,  but  only  a  branch  from  it."* 
Wang  Wei,  a  writer  of  the  Ming  dynasty,  says : — "  Anciently,  the 
Chung  Yung  consisted  of  two  plSen,  as  appears  from  the  History  of 
Literature  of  the  Han  dynasty,  but  in  the  Le  Ke  we  have  only  one 
;>vV»,  which  Choo  He,  when  he  made  his  i  Chapters  and  Sentences,' 
divided  into  33  chapters.  The  old  Work  in  two  p'een  is  not  to  be 
met  with  now."3 

ii8-*-ra»*ttifc«t+«f.  >  gift  #&  4  a  IB  ft* 

f  -»££*#;&  iffifcil IB* *.-Hfl&B.# * 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


tao&MOMKXA.]  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  TIIE   MEAK.  [ch.it. 

These  views  are  based  on  a  misinterpretation  of  the  entry  in  the 
Catalogue.  It  does  not  speak  of  two  p^een  of  the  Chung  Yung,  but 
oftwop'een  of  Observations  thereon.  The  Great  Learning  carries  on  its 
front  the  evidence  of  being  incomplete,  but  the  student  will  not  easily 
believe  that  the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean  is  so.  I  see  no  reason  for  calling 
its  integrity  in  question,  and  no  necessity  therefore  to  recur  to  the 
ingenious  device  employed  in  the  edition  of  the  live  king  published 
by  the  imperial  authority  of  K'ang  He,  to  get  over  the  difficulty 
which  Wang  Wei  supposes.  It  there  appears  in  two  p'een,  of  which 
we  have  the  following  account  from  the  author  of  "Supplemental 
Remarks  upon  the  Four  Books :  " — "  The  proper  course  now  is  to 
consider  the  first  20  chapters  in  Choo  He's  arrangement  as  making 
up  the  first  p'een,  and  the  remaining  13  as  forming  the  second.  In 
this  way  Ave  retain  the  old  form  of  the  Treatise,  and  do  not  come 
into  collision  with  the  views  of  Choo.  For  this  suggestion  we  are 
indebted  to  Loo  Wang-chae"  (an  author  of  the  Sung  dynasty).4 

4  See  the  ^  #  }§  g&  |fc,  art.  pjl  )f . 

SECTION  IV. 

ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE. 

1.  The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean  is  a  work  not  easy  to  understand. 
"It  first,"  says  the  philosopher  Ch'ing,  "speaks  of  one  priuciple;  it 
next  spreads  this  out  and  embraces  all  things ;  finally,  it  returns  and 
gathers  them  up  under  the  one  principle.  Unroll  it,  and  it  fills  the 
universe ;  roll  it  up,  and  it  retires  and  lies  hid  in  secrecy."1  There 
is  this  advantage,  however,  to  the  student  of  it,  that,  more  than 
most  other  Chinese  Treatises,  it  has  a  beginning,  a  middle,  and  an 
end.  The  first  chapter  stands  to  all  that  follows  in  the  character  of 
a  text,  containing  several  propositions  of  which  we  have  the  expan- 
sion or  development.  If  that  development  were  satisfactory,  we 
should  be  able  to  bring  our  own  minds  en  rapport  with  that  of  the 
author.  Unfortunately  it  is  not  so.  As  a  writer  he  belongs  to  the 
intuitional  school  more  than  to  the  logical.  This  is  well  put  in  the 
"  Continuation  of  the  General  Examination  of  Literary  Monuments 
and  Learned  Men," — "The  philosopher  TsSng  reached  his  conclu- 
sions by  following  in  the  train  of  things,  watching  and  examining; 

1  See  the  Introductory  note,  pp.  24G, 247. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


iV.]  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE.  [prolboosibna; 

whereas  Tsze-szc  proceeds  directly  and  reaches  to  Heavenly  virtue. 
His  was  a  mysterious  power  of  discernment,  approaching  to  that  of 
Yen  Hwuy."2  We  must  take  the  Book  and  the  author,  however,  as 
we  have  them,  and  get  to  their  meaning,  if  we  can,  by  assiduous 
examination  and  reflection. 

2.  "  Man  has  received  his  nature  from  Heaven.  Conduct  in  accord- 
ance with  that  nature  constitutes  what  is  right  and  true, — is  a  pur- 
suing of  the  proper  path.  The  cultivation  or  regulation  of  that 
path  is  what  is  called  instruction"  It  is  with  these  axioms  that  the 
Treatise  commences,  and  from  such  an  introduction  we  might  expect 
that  the  writer  would  go  on  to  unfold  the  various  principles  of  duty, 
derived  from  an  analysis  of  man's  moral  constitution. 

Confining  himself,  however,  to  the  second  axiom,  he  proceeds  to 
say  that u  the  path  may  not  for  an  instant  be  left,  and  that  the  supe- 
rior man  is  cautious  and  careful  in  reference  to  what  he  does  not  see, 
and  fearful  and  apprehensive  in  reference  to  what  he  does  not  hear. 
There  is  nothing  more  visible  than  what  is  secret,  and  nothing  more 
manifest  than  what  is  minute,  and  therefore  the  superior  man  is 
watchful  over  his  aloneness"  This  is  not  all  very  plain.  Compar- 
ing it  with  the  6th  chapter  of  Commentary  in  the  Great  Learning, 
it  seems  to  inculcate  what  is  there  called  "making  the  thoughts 
sincere."  The  passage  contains  an  admonition  about  equivalent  to 
that  of  Solomon, — "  Keep  thy  heart  with  all  diligence,  for  out  of  it 
are  the  issues  of  life." 

The  next  paragraph  seems  to  speak  of  the  nature  and  the  path  un- 
der other  names.  "  While  there  are  no  movements  of  pleasure,  anger, 
sorrow,  or  joy,  we.  have  what  may  be  called  the  state  of  equilibrium. 
When  those  feelings  have  been  moved,  and  they  all  act  in  the  due 
degree,  we  have  what  may  be  called  the  state  of  harmony.  This 
equilibrium  is  the  great  root  of  the  world  and  this  harmony  is  its 
universal  path."  What  is  here  called  "the  state  of  equilibrium," 
is  the  same  as  the  nature  given  by  Heaven,  considered  absolutely  in 
itself,  without  deflection  or  inclination.  This  nature  acted  on  from 
without,  and  responding  with  the  various  emotions,  so  as  always  "  to 
hit"3  the  mark  with  entire  correctness,  produces  the  state  of  harmony, 

*  **  the  $  £  j$  &  #,  Bk.  «*.  art.  ^  jg^  ^  ft  £  ^  gg 

45] 


mjotwoiowA.]  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE   MEAN.  [atn 

and  such  harmonious  response  is  the  path  along  which  all  humai 
activities  should  proceed. 

Finally,  "  Let  the  states  of  equilibrium  and  harmony  exist  b 
perfection,  and  a  happy  order  will  prevail  throughout  heaven  aw 
earth,  and  all  things  will  be  nourished  and  flourish."  Here  we  pa* 
into  the  sphere  of  mystery  and  mysticism.  The  language,  acconliu; 
to  Choo  He,  "  describes  the  meritorious  achievements  and  transform 
ing  influence  of  sage  and  spiritual  men  in  their  highest  extent."  Fron 
the  path  of  duty,  where  we  tread  on  solid  ground,  the  writer  mA 
denly  raises  us  aloft  on  wings  of  air,  and  will  carry  us  we  know  na 
where,  and  to  we  know  not  what. 

3.  The  paragraphs  thus  presented,  and  which  constitute  Choo  Hei 
first  chapter,  contain  the  sum  of  the  whole  Work.  This  is  acknow 
ledged  by  all ; — by  the  critics  who  disown  Choo  He's  interpretation 
of  it,  as  freely  as  by  him.4  Revolving  them  iu  my  own  mind  oftej 
and  long,  I  collect  from  them  the  following  as  the  ideas  of  tin 
author: — 1st,  Man  has  received  from  Heaven  a  moral  nature  b 
which  he  is  constituted  a  law  to  himself;  2d,  Over  this  nature  mai 
requires  to  exercise  a  jealous  watchfulness ;  and  3d,  As  he  possesses  i 
absolutely  and  relatively,  in  perfection,  or  attains  to  such  possessioi 
of  it,  he  becomes  invested  with  the  highest  dignity  and  power,  au< 
may  say  to  himself — u  I  am  a  god ;  yea,  I  sit  in  the  seat  of  God/ 
will  not  say  here  that  there  is  blasphemy  in  the  last  of  these  ideas 
but  do  we  not  have  in  them  the  same  combination  which  we  foun 
in  The  Great  Learning, — a  combination  of  the  ordinary  and  thi 
extraordinary,  the  plain  and  the  vague,  which  is  very  perplexing  t 
the  mind,  and  renders  the  Book  unfit  for  the  purposes  of  menbi 
and  moral  discipline  ? 

And  here  I  may  inquire  whether  we  do  right  in  calling  the  TreatL 
by  any  of  the  names  which  foreigners  have  hitherto  used  for  it?  I 
the  note  on  the  title,  pp.  246,  247,  I  have  entered  a  little  into  th 
question.  The  Work  is  not  at  all  what  a  reader  must  expect  to  fiu| 
in  what  he  supposes  to  be  a  treatise  on  u  The  Golden  Medium,"  u  Tljj 
Invariable  Mean,"  or  "  The  Doctrine  of  the  Mean."  Those  names  are 
descriptive  only  of  a  portion  of  it.     Where  the  phrase  Chung  Yung 

4  Compare  Choo  He's  language  in  his  concluding  note  to  the  1st  chapter  :— >K|  ff  fXr  #B 
—  ^^§m."<lMaouSc-ho-.,iahU^0|ft^— ,  M 1  :-]£  l£  Jjtf — 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


sect,  iv.]  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE.  [pbolboommia. 

occurs  in  the  quotations  from  Confucius,  in  nearly  every  chapter 
from  the  2d  to  the  I  lth,  we  do  well  to  translate  it  by  "  the  course  of 
the  Mean,"  or  some  similar  terms ;  but  the  conception  of  it  in  Tsze- 
sze's  mind  was  of  a  different  kind,  as  the  preceding  analysis  of  the 
first  chapter  sufficiently  shows. 

4.  I  may  return  to  this  point  of  the  proper  title  for  the  Work 
again,  but  in  the  mean  time  we  must  proceed  with  the  analysis  of  it. 
—The  ten  chapters  from  the  2d  to  the  11th  constitute  the  second  part, 
and  in  them  Tsze-sze  quotes  the  words  of  Confucius,  "for  the  pur- 
I>ose,"  according  to  Choo  He,  "  of  illustrating  the  meaning  of  the  first 
chapter."  Yet,  as  I  have  just  intimated,  they  do  not  to  my  mind  do 
tliia.  Confucius  bewails  the  rarity  of  the  practice  of  the  Mean,  and 
graphically  sets  forth  the  difficulty  of  it.  "  The  empire,  with  its 
component  States  and  families,  may  be  ruled ;  dignities  and  emolu- 
ments may  be  declined;  naked  weapons  may  be  trampled  under 
foot;  but  the  course  of  the  Mean  can  not  be  attained  to/"*  "The 
knowing  go  beyond  it,  and  the  stupid  do  not  come  up  to  it/'6  Yet 
some  have  attained  to  it.  Shun  did  so,  humble  and  ever  learning 
from  people  far  inferior  to  himself;7  and  Yen  Hwuy  did  so,  holding 
fast  whatever  good  he  got  hold  of,  and  never  letting  it  go  ?8  Tsze- 
loo  thought  the  Mean  could  be  taken  by  storm,  but  Confucius  taught 
him  better.9  And  in  fine,  it  is  only  the  sage  who  can  fully  exemplify 
the  Mean.10 

All  these  citations  do  not  throw  any  light  on  the  ideas  presented 
in  the  first  chapter.  On  the  contrary  they  interrupt  the  train  of 
thought.  Instead  of  showing  us  how  virtue,  or  the  path  of  duty  is  in 
accordance  with  our  Heaveu-given  nature,  they  lead  us  to  think  of 
it  as  a  mean  between  two  extremes.  Each  extreme  may  be  a  viola- 
tion of  the  law  of  our  nature,  but  that  is  not  made  to  appear.  Con- 
fucius' sayings  would  be  in  place  in  illustrating  the  doctrine  of  the 
Peripatetics,  "which  placed  all  virtue  in  a  medium  between  oppo- 
site vices."11  Here  in  the  Chung  Yung  of  Tsze-sze  I  have  always  felt 
them  to  be  out  of  place. 

5.  In  the  12th  chapter  Tsze-sze  speaks  again  himself,  and  we 
seem  at  once  to  know  the  voice.  He  begins  by  saying  that  "  the 
way  of  the  superior  man  reaches  far  and  wide,  and  yet  is  secret," 

5  Ch.  lx.  6  Ch.  iv.  7  Ch.  iv.  8  Ch.  viii.  9  Ch.  x.  10  Cb.  xi.  11  Ency- 
clopedia Britannica,  Preliminary  Diascrtati  /us,  p.  318,  latest  edition 

J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


proleoombna.]  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE   MEAN.  [ca.rt 

by  which  he  means  to  tell  us  that  the  path  of  duty  is  to  be  pursue* 
everywhere  and  at  all  times,  while  yet  the  secret  spring  and  rule  o 
it  is  near  at  hand,  in  the  Heaven-conferred  nature,  the  individua 
consciousness,  with  which  no  stranger  can  intermeddle.     Choo  Hu 
as  will  be  seen  in   the  notes,  gives  a  different  interpretation  o 
the  utterance.     But  the  view  which  I  have  adopted  is  maintainec 
convincingly  by  Maou  Se-ho  in  the  second  part  of  his  "  Observation* 
on  the  Chung  Yung."     With  this  chapter  commences  the  third  par 
of  the  Work,  which  embraces  also  the  eight  chapters  which  follow.  "  I 
is  designed,"  says  Choo  He,  "to  illustrate  what  is  said  in  the  firs 
chapter  that  "  the  path  may  not  be  left."     But  more  than  that  on| 
sentence  finds  its  illustration  here.    Tsze-sze  had  reference  in  it  alsd 
to  what  he  had  said — "The  superior  man  does  not  wait  till  he  sect 
things  to  be  cautious,  nor  till  he  hears  things  to  be  apprehensive 
There  is  nothing  more  visible  than  what  is  secret,  and  nothing  mor^ 
manifest  than  what  is  minute.  Therefore,  the  superior  man  is  watch  J 
ful  over  himself  when  he  is  alone." 

It  is  in  this  portion  of  the  Chung  Yung  that  we  find  a  good  deal 
of  moral  instruction  which  is  really  valuable.  Most  of  it  consists  of 
sayings  of  Confucius,  but  the  sentiments  of  Tsze-sze  himself  in  his 
own  language  are  interspersed  with  them.  The  sage  of  China  has 
no  higher  utterances  than  those  which  are  given  in  the  13th  chapter. 
— "  The  path  is  not  far  from  man.  When  men  try  to  pursue  a 
course  which  is  far  from  the  common  indications  of  consciousness, 
this  course  cannot  be  considered  the  path.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry 
it  is  said — 

4  In  hewing  an  axe-handle,  in  hewing  an  axe-handle, 
The  pattern  is  not  far  off.' 

We  grasp  one  axe-handle  to  hew  the  other,  and  yet  if  we  look 
askance  from  the  one  to  the  other,  we  may  consider  them  as  apart 
Therefore,  the  superior  man  governs  men  according  to  their  nature, 
with  what  is  proper  to  them ;  and  as  soon  as  they  change  what  is 
wrong,  he  stops.  When  one  cultivates  to  the  utmost  the  moral 
principles  of  his  nature,  and  exercises  them  on  the  principle  of  reci- 
procity, he  is  not  far  from  the  path.  What  you  do  not  like  when 
done  to  yourself,  do  not  do  to  others. 

"  In  the  way  of  the  superior  man  there  are  four  things,  to  none 
of  which  have  I  as  yet  attained. — To  serve  my  father  as  I  would 

J  Digitized  by  GoOgk 


act  nr.]  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE,  [prolmomwuu 

require  my  son  to  serve  me :  to  this  I  have  not  attained ;  to  serve  my 
elder  brother  as  I  would  require  my  younger  brother  to  serve  me : 
to  this  I  have  not  attained ;  to  serve  my  prince  as  I  would  require  my 
minister  to  serve  me :  to  this  I  have  not  attained ;  to  set  the  example . 
in  behaving  to  a  friend  as  I  would  require  him  to  behave  to  me :  to 
this  I  have  not  attained.  Earnest  in  practising  the  ordinary  virtues* 
and  careful  in  speaking  about  them ;  if  in  his  practice  he  has  anything 
defective,  the  superior  man  dares  not  but  exert  himself,  and  if  in 
his  words  he  has  any  excess,  he  dares  not  allow  himself  such  license. 
Thus  his  words  have  respect  to  his  actions,  and  his  actions  have  re- 
spect to  his  words ; — is  it  not  just  an  entire  sincerity  which  marks  the 
superior  man?" 

We  have  here  the  golden  rule  in  its  negative  form  expressly  pro- 
pounded : — "  What  you  do  not  like  when  done  to  yourself,  do  not 
do  to  others."  But  in  the  paragraph  which  follows  we  have  the 
rule  virtually  in  its  positive  form.  Confucius  recognizes  the  duty  of 
taking  the  initiative, — of  behaving  himself  to  others  in  the  first  in- 
stance as  he  would  that  they  should  behave  to  him.  There  is  a  cer- 
tain narrowness,  indeed,  in  that  the  sphere  of  its  operations  seems  to 
be  confined  to  the  relations  of  society,  which  are  spoken  of  more  at 
large  in  the  20th  chapter,  but  let  us  not  grudge  the  tribute  of  our 
warm  approbation  to  the  sentiments. 

This  chapter  is  followed  by  two  from  Tsze-sze,  to  the  effect  that 
the  superior  man  does  what  is  proper  in  every  change  of  his 
situation,  always  finding  his  rule  in  himself*;  and  that  in  his  prac. 
tice  there  is  an  orderly  advance  from  step  to  step, — from  what  is 
near  to  what  is  remote.  Then  follow  five  chapters  from  Confucius : 
— the  first,  on  the  operation  and  influence  of  spiritual  beings,  to  show 
"the  manifestness  of  what  is  minute,  and  the  irrepressibleness  of 
sincerity;"  the  second,  on  the  filial  piety  of  Shun,  and  how  it  was 
rewarded  by  Heaven  with  the  empire,  with  enduring  fame,  and  with 
long  life ;  the  third  and  fourth,  on  the  kings  Wan  and  Woo,  and  the 
duke  of  Chow,  celebrating  them  for  their  filial  piety  and  other  asso- 
ciate virtues;  and  the  fifth,  on  the  subject  of  government.  These  chap- 
ters are  interesting  enough  in  themselves,  but  when  I  go  back  from 
them,  and  examine  whether  I  have  from  them  any  better  understanding 
of  the  paragraphs  in  the  first  chapter  which  they  are  said  to  illustrate, 
I  do  not  find  that  I  have.     Three  of  them,  the  17th,  18th,  and  19th, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


THE  DOCTRINE   OF   THE   MEAN.  flatir. 

would  be  more  in  place  in  the  Classic  of  Filial  Piety  than  here 
in  the  Chung  Yung.  The  meaning  of  the  16th  is  shadowy  and  un- 
defined. After  all  the  study  which  I  have  directed  to  it,  there  are 
some  points  in  reference  to  which  I  have  still  doubts  and  difficulties. 
The  20th  chapter  which  concludes  the  third  portion  of  the  Work 
contains  a  full  exposition  of  Confucius '  views  on  government,  though 
professedly  descriptive  only  of  that  of  the  kings  Wan  and  Woo. 
Along  with  lessons  proper  for  a  ruler  there  are  many  also  of  universal 
application,  but  the  mingling  of  them  perplexes  the  mind.  It  tells 
us  of  "the  five  duties  of  universal  application," — those  between 
sovereign  and  minister,  husband  and  wife,  father  and  son,  elder  and 
younger  brother,  and  friends ;  of  "  the  three  virtues  by  which  those 
duties  are  carried  into  effect,"  namely,  knowledge,  benevolence,  and 
energy ;  and  of  "  the  one  thing,  by  which  those  virtues  are  practised," 
which  is  singleness  or  sincerity.10  It  sets  forth  in  detail  the  "nine 
standard  rules  for  the  administration  of  government,"  which  are  "the 
cultivation  by  the  ruler  of  his  own  character;  the  honouring  men 
of  virtue  and  talents ;  affection  to  his  relatives;  respect  towards  the 
great  ministers ;  kind  and  considerate  treatment  of  the  whole  body  of 
officers ;  cherishing  the  mass  of  the  people  as  children ;  encouraging 
till  classes  of  artizans ;  indulgent  treatment  of  men  from  a  distance ; 
and  the  kindly  cherishing  of  the  princes  of  the  States."11  There  are 
these  and  other  equally  interesting  topics  in  this  chapter ;  but,  as 
they  are  in  the- Work,  they  distract  the  mind,  instead  of  making  the 
author's  great  object  more  clear  to  it,  and  I  will  not  say  more  upon 
them  here. 

6.  Doubtless  it  was  the  mention  of  "singleness,"  or  "sincerity," 
in  the  20th  chapter,  which  made  Tsze-sze  introduce  it  into  this 
Treatise,  for  from  those  terms  he  is  able  to  go  on  to  develope  what 
he  intended  in  saying  that  "  if  the  states  of  Equilibrium  and  Har- 
mony exist  in  perfection,  a  happy  order  will  prevail  throughout 
heaven  and  earth,  and  all  things  will  be  nourished  and  flourish."  It 
is  here,  that  now  we  are  astonished  at  the  audacity  of  the  writers 
assertions,  and  now  lost  in  vain  endeavours  to  ascertain  his  meaning 
I  have  quoted  the  words  of  Confucius  that  it  is  "  singleness,"  by 
which  the  three  virtues  of  knowledge,  benevolence,  and  energy  are 
•able  to  carry  into  practice  the  duties  of  universal  obligation.     He 


10  Par.  8.        11  Par.  12. 
50] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


»CT.irJ  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE.  [p*ol»gow»a. 

says  also  that  it  is  this  same  "singleness"  by  which  "  the  nine  standard 
rules  of  government"  can  be  effectively  carried  out.12  This  "sin- 
gleness "  is  just  a  name  for  "  the  states  of  Equilibrium  and  Harmony 
existing  in  perfection."  It  denotes  a  [character  absolutely  and  rela* 
tively  good,  wanting  nothing  in  itself,  and  correct  in  all  its  oufr> 
goings.  "Sincerity"  is  another  term  for  the  same  thing,  and  ia 
speaking  about  it,  Confucius  makes  a  distinction  between  sincerity 
absolute  and  sincerity  acquired.  The  former  is  born  with  some^ 
and  practised  by  them  without  any  effort ;  the  latter  is  attained  by 
study  and  practised  by  strong  endeavour.13  The  former  is  "  the  way 
of  Heaven ;"  the  latter  is  "  the  way  of  men."14  "  He  who  possesses 
sincerity," — absolutely,  that  is, — "  is  he  who  without  effort  hits  what 
is  right,  and  apprehends  without  the  exercise  of  thought; — he 
is  the  sage  who  naturally, and  easily  embodies  the  right  way.  He 
who  attains  to  sincerity,  is  he  who  chooses  what  is  good  and  firmly 
holds  it  fast.  And  to  this  attainment  there  are  requisite  the  ex- 
tensive study  of  what  is  good,  accurate  inquiry  about  it,  careful 
reflection  on  it,  the  clear  discrimination  of  it,  and  the  earnest 
practice  of  it."15  In  these  passages  Confucius  unhesitatingly  enun- 
ciates his  belief  that  there  are  some  men  who  are  absolutely  perfect, 
who  come  into  the  world  as  Ave  may  conceive  the  first  man  was, 
when  he  was  created  by  God  "in  His  own  image,"  full  of  knowledge 
and  righteousness,  and  who  grow  up  as  we  know  that  Christ  did, 
"  increasing  in  wisdom  and  in  stature."  He  disclaimed  being  con- 
sidered to  be  such  an  one  himself,16  but  the  sages  of  China  were 
such.  And  moreover,  others  who  are  not  so  naturally  may  make 
themselves  to  become  so.  Some  will  have  to  put  forth  more  effort 
and  to  contend  with  greater  struggles,  but  the  end  will  be  the  pos- 
session of  the  knowledge  and  the  achievement  of  the  practice. 

I  need  not  say  that  these  sentiments  are  contrary  to  the  views  of 
human  nature  which  are  presented  in  the  Bible.  The  testimony 
of  Revelation  is  that  "  there  is  not  a  just  man  upon  earth  that  doeth 
good  and  sinneth  not."  "  If  we  say  that  we  have  no  sin,"  and  in 
writing  this  term,  I  am  thinking  here  not  of  sin  against  God,  but, 
if  we  can  conceive  of  it  apart  from  that,  of  failures  in  regard  to  what 
ought  to  be  in  our  regulation  of  ourselves,  and  in  our  behaviour  to 
others ; — "  if  we  say  that  we  have  no  sin,  we  deceive  ourselves,  and 

12  Par.  15.       18  Par.  9.       14  Par.  18.       15  Parr.  18, 19.       16  Ana.  VII.  xix. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


pmoLTOOMHMAO  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN.  [ch.it. 

the  truth  is  not  in  us."  This  language  is  appropriate  in  the  lips  of  the 
learned  as  well  as  in  those  of  the  ignorant,  to  the  highest  sage  as  to 
the  lowest  child  of  the  soil.  Neither  the  scriptures  of  God  nor  the 
experience  of  man  know  of  individuals  absolutely  perfect.  The 
other  sentiment  that  men  can  make  themselves  perfect  is  equally 
wide  of  the  truth.  Intelligence  and  goodness  by  no  means  stand  to 
each  other  in  the  relation  of  cause  and  effect.  The  sayings  of  Ovid, 
"  Video  meliora  proboque,  deteriora  sequor"  "  Nitimur  in  vetitum  sem- 
per, cupimusque  negata"  are  a  more  correct  expression  of  the  facts 
of  human  consciousness  and  conduct  than  the  high-flown  phrases  of 
Confucius. 

7.  But  Tsze-sze  adopts  the  dicta  of  his  grandfather  without  ques- 
tioning them,  and  gives  them  forth  in  his  own  style  at  the  commence- 
ment of  the  fourth  part  of  his  Treatise.  "When  we  have  intelligence 
resulting  from  sincerity,  this  condition  is  to  be  ascribed  to  nature; 
when  we  have  sincerity  resulting  from  intelligence,  this  condition 
is  to  be  ascribed  to  instruction.  But  given  the  sincerity,  and  there 
shall  be  the  intelligence ;  given  the  intelligence,  and  there  shall  be 
the  sincerity." 

Tsze-sze  does  more  than  adopt  the  dicta  of  Confucius.  He  applies 
them  in  a  way  which  the  sage  never  did,  and  which  he  would  pro- 
bably have  shrunk  from  doing.  The  sincere,  or  perfect  man  of 
Confucius  is  he  who  satisfies  completely  all  the  requirements  of  duty 
in  the  various  relations  of  Society,  and  in  the  exercise  of  govern- 
ment ;  but  the  sincere  man  of  Tsze-sze  is  a  potency  in  the  universe. 
"  Able  to  give  its  full  development  to  his  own  nature,  he  can  do  the 
same  to  the  nature  of  other  men.  Able  to  give  its  full  development 
to  the  nature  of  other  men,  he  can  give  their  full  development  to 
the  natures  of  animals  and  things.  Able  to  give  their  full  develop- 
ment to  the  natures  of  creatures  and  things,  he  can  assist  the  trans- 
forming and  nourishing  powers  of  Heaven  and  Earth.  Able  to 
assist  the  transforming  and  nourishing  powers  of  Heaven  and  Earth, 
he  may  with  Heaven  and  Earth  form  a  ternion."18  Such  are  the 
results  of  sincerity  natural.  The  case  below  this— of  sincerity 
acquired,  is  as  follows,— "  The  individual  cultivates  its  shoots.  From 
these  he  can  attain  to  the  possession  of  sincerity.  This  sincerity 
becomes  apparent.     From  being  apparent,  it  becomes  manifest 


17  Ch.  rxi,        18  Ch,  xxii. 

52] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


tier,  iv.]  ITS  SCOPE  AND  VALUE.  friOLTOowwu. 

From  being  manifest,  it  becomes  brilliant.  Brilliant,  it  affects  others. 
Affecting  others,  they  are  changed  by  it.  Changed  by  it,  they  are 
transformed.  It  is  only  he  who  is  possessed  of  the  most  complete 
sincerity  that  can  exist  tinder  heaven,  who  can  transform."19  It 
may  safely  be  affirmed,  that  when  he  thus  expressed  himself,  Tsze-sze 
understood  neither  what  he  said  nor  whereof  he  affirmed.  Maou 
Se-ho  and  some  other  nlodern  writers  explain  away  many  of  his 
predicates  of  sincerity,  so  that  in  their  hands  they  become  nothing 
but  extravagant  hyperboles,  but  the  author  himself  would,  I  believe, 
have  protested  against  such  a  mode  of  dealing  with  his  words.  True, 
his  structures  are  castles  in  the  air,  but  he  had  no  idea  himself  that 
they  were  so. 

In  the  24th  chapter  there  is  a  ridiculous  descent  from  the  sublimity 
of  the  two  preceding.  We  are  told  that  the  possessor  of  entire  sin- 
cerity is  like  a  spirit  and  can  foreknow,  but  the  foreknowledge  is 
only  a  judging  by  the  milfoil  and  tortoise  and  other  auguries !  But 
the  author  recovers  himself,  and  resumes  his  theme  about  sincerity 
as  conducting  to  self-completion,  and  the  completion  of  other  men 
and  things,  describing  it  also  as  possessing  all  the  qualities  which 
can  be  predicated  of  Heaven  and  earth.  Gradually  the  subject  is 
made  to  converge  to  the  person  of  Confucius,  who  is  the  ideal  of  the 
sage,  as  the  sage  is  the  ideal  of  humanity  at  large.  An  old  account 
of  the  object  of  Tsze-sze  in  the  Chung  Yung  is  that  he  wrote  it  to 
celebrate  the  virtue  of  his  grandfather."20  He  certainly  contrives  to 
do  this  in  the  course  of  it.  The  30th,  31st,  and  32d  chapters  con- 
tain his  eulogium,  and  never  has  any  other  mortal  been  exalted  in 
such  terms.  "  He  may  be  compared  to  heaven  and  earth  in  their 
supporting  and  containing,  their  overshadowing  and  curtaining  all 
things ;  he  may  be  compared  to  the  four  seasons  in  their  alternating 
progress,  and  to  the  sun  and  moon  in  their  successive  shining." 
"  Quick  in  apprehension,  clear  in  discernment,  of  far-reaching  intelli- 
gence, and  all-embracing  knowledge,  he  was  fitted  to  exercise  rule ; 
magnanimous,  generous,  benign,  and  mild,  he  was  fitted  to  exercise 
forbearance ;  impulsive,  energetic,  firm,  and  enduring,  he  was  fitted 
to  maintain  a  firm  hold ;  self-adjusted,  grave,  never  swerving  from 

53] 


pgOT.miyntiufl  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN.  [cn.iv. 

the  Mean,  and  correct,  he  was  fitted  to  command  reverence ;  accom- 
plished, distinctive,  concentrative,  and  searching,  he  was  fitted  to 
exercise  discrimination."  "All-embracing  and  vast,  he  was  like 
heaven ;  deep  and  active  as  a  fountain,  he  was  like  the  abyss." 
"  Therefore  his  fame  overspreads  the  Middle  kingdom,  and  extend* 
to  all  barbarous  tribes.  Wherever  ships  and  carriages  reach ;  wher- 
ever the  strength  of  man  penetrates ;  wherever  the  heavens  over- 
shadow and  the  earth  sustains ;  wherever  the  sun  and  moon  shine ; 
wherever  frosts  and  dews  fall; — all  who  have  blood  and  breath 
unfeignedly  honour  and  love  him.  Hence  it  is  said, — He  is  the 
equal  of  Heaven!"  "Who  can  know  him  but  he  who  is  indeed 
quick  in  apprehension,  clear  in  discernment,  of  far-reaching  intelli- 
gence/ aiid  all-embracing  knowledge,  possessing  all  heavenly  virtue  ?" 

8.  We,  have  arrived  at  the  concluding  chapter  of  the  Work,  in 
which  the  author,  according  to  Choo  He,  "  having  carried  his  descrip- 
tions to  the  highest  point  in  the  preceding  chapters,  turns  back  and 
examines  the  source  of  his  subject ;  and  then  again  from  the  work 
of  the  learner,  free  from  all  selfishness  and  watchful  over  himself 
when  he  is  alone,  he  carries  out  his  description,  till  by  easy  steps  he 
brings  it  to  the  consummation  of  the  whole  empire  tranquillized  by 
simple  and  sincere  reverentialness.  He  moreover  eulogizes  its  mys- 
teriousness,  till  he  speaks  of  it  at  last  as  without  sound  or  smell."21 
Between  the  first  and  last  chapters  there  is  a  correspondency,  and  each 
of  them  may  be  considered  as  a  summary  of  the  whole  treatise.  The 
difference  between  them  is,  that  in  the  first  a  commencement  is  made 
with  the  mention  of  Heaven  as  the  conferrer  of  man's  nature,  while 
in  this  the  progress  of  man  in  virtue  is  traced,  step  by  step,  till  at 
last  it  is  equal  to  that  of  High  Heaven. 

9.  I  have  thus  in  the  preceding  paragraphs  given  a  general  and 
somewhat  copious  review  of  this  Work.  My  object  has  been  to 
seize,  if  I  could,  the  train  of  thought,  and  to  hold  it  up  to  the  reader. 
Minor  objections  to  it,  arising  from  the  confused  use  of  terms  and 
singular  applications  of  passages  from  the  older  Classics,  are  noticed  in 
the  notes  subjoined  to  the  translation.  I  wished  here  that  its  scope 
should  be  seen,  and  the  means  be  afforded  of  judging  how  far  it  k 
worthy  of  the  high  character  attributed  to  it.  "  The  relish  of  it," 
says  the  younger  Ch'ing,  "  is  inexhaustible.    The  whole  of  it  is  solid 

21  See  the  concluding  note  by  Choo  He. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


sbct.  tr.]  ITS  SGOfrfc  AND  VALUE.  [miolboombha. 

learning.  When  the  skilful  reader  has  explored  it  with  delight 
till  he  has  apprehended  it,  he  may  carry  it  into  practice  all  his  life, 
and  will  find  that  it  cannpVbe  exhausted."22 

My  own  opinion  of  it  is  much  less  favourable.  The  names  by 
which  it  has  been  called  in  translations  of  it  have  led  to  misconcep- 
tions of  its  character.  Were  it  styled  "  The  states  of  Equilibrium  and 
Harmony,"  we  should  be  prepared  to  expect  something  strange  and 
probably  extravagant.  Assuredly  we  should  expect  nothing  more 
strange  or  extravagant  than  what  we  have.  It  begins  sufficiently 
well,  but  the  author  has  hardly  enunciated  his  preliminary  apothegms, 
when  he  conducts  into  an  obscurity  where  we  can  hardly  grope  our 
way,  and  when  we  emerge  from  that,  it  is  to  be  bewildered  by  his 
gorgeous  but  unsubstantial  pictures  of  sagely  perfection.  He  has 
eminently  contributed  to  nourish  the  pride  of  his  countrymen.  He 
has  exalted  their  sages  above  all  that  is  called  God  or  is  worshipped, 
and  taught  the  masses  of  the  people  that  with  them  they  have  need 
of  nothing  from  without.  In  the  mean  time  it  is  antagonistic  to 
Christianity.  By-and-by,  when  Christianity  has  prevailed  in  China, 
men  will  refer  to  it  as  a  striking  proof  how  their  fathers  by  their 
wisdom  knew  neither  God  nor  themselves 

22  The  Introductory  note,  p.  247. 


55J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


nouMOMUA.]  C0NFUCIU8  AND  H18  DISCIPLES.  [out., 

CHAPTER  V. 

CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLES. 
SECTION  I. 

LIFE    OF  CONFUCIUS. 

1.  "And  have  you  foreigners  surnames  as  well?"    This  question 
has  often  been  put  to  me  by  Chinese.    It  marks  the  ignorance  whicil 

^  belongs  to  the  people  of  all  that  is  external  to  them 

selves,  and  the  pride  of  antiquity  which  enters  largely! 
as  an  element  into  their  character.  If  such  a  pride  could  in  any  caa 
be  justified,  we  might  allow  it  to  the  family  of  the  K'ung,  tin 
descendants  of  Confucius.  In  the  reign  of  K'ang-he,  twenty-oirt 
centuries  and  a  half  after  the  death  of  the  sage,  they  amounted  td 
eleven  thousand  males.  But  their  ancestry  is  carried  back  througl 
a  period  of  equal  extent,  and  genealogical  tables  are  common,  ii 
which  the  descent  of  Confucius  is  traced  down  from  Hwang-te,  tU 
inventor  of  the  cycle,  B.C.  2637.1 

The  more  moderate  writers,  however,  content  themselves  with 
exhibiting  his  ancestry  back  to  the  commencement  of  the  Chow 
dynasty,  B.C.  1121.  Among  the  relatives  of  the  tyrant  Chow,  the 
last  emperor  of  the  Yin  dynasty,  was  an  elder  brother,  by  a  con- 
cubine, named  K'e,2  who  is  celebrated  by  Confucius,  Ana.  xviii.  i., 
under  the  title  of  the  viscount  of  Wei.  Foreseeing  the  impending 
ruin  of  their  family,  K'e  withdrew  from  the  court ;  and  subsequent- 
ly, he  was  invested  by  the  emperor  Shing,  the  second  of  the  house 
of  Chow,  with  the  principality  of  Sung,  which  embraced  the  eastern 
portion  of  the  present  province  of  Ho-nan,  that  he  might  there  con 
tinue  the  sacrifices  to  the  emperors  of  Yin.  K'e  was  followed  as 
duke  of  Sung  by  a  younger  brother,  in  whose  line  the  succession 

1  See  Memoires  concernant  let  Chinois,  Tome  XII,  p.  447,  et  §eq.   Father  Amiot  states,  p.  501, 
that  he  had  seen  the  representatire  of  the  family,  who  succeeded  to  the  dignity  of  jtfjr  |J5  ^V 

in  the  9th  year  of  K'3en-lung,  a.d.  1744.    It  is  hardly  necessary  that  I  should  say  here,  that  the 

name  Confucius  is  merely  the  Chinese  characters  2^  Jt  -7*  (hVung  Foo-tsxe,  'The  master, 

K*uug platinized.       2  jgfc. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


wct.  i/J  LIFE   OF  COOTUCIUS.  [prolegomena. 

continued.  His  great-grandson,  the  duke  Min,«  was  followed,  B.C.  908, 
by  a  younger  brother,  leaving,  however,  two  sons  Fuh-foo  Ho,4  and 
Fang-sze.5  Fuh  Ho6  resigned  his  right  to  the  dukedom  in  favour  of 
Fang-sze,  who  put  his  uncle  to  death  in  B.C.  893,  and  became  master 
of  the  State.  He  is  known  as  the  duke  Le,7  and  to  his  elder  brother 
belongs  the  honour  of  having  the  sage  among  his  descendants. 

Three  descents  from  Fuh  Ho,  we  find  Ching  K'au-foo,8  who  waa 
a  distinguished  officer  under  the  dukes  Tae,  Woo,  and  Seuen9  (b.c. 
799 — 728).  He  is  still  celebrated  for  his  humility,  and  for  his 
literary  tastes.  We  have  accounts  of  him  as  being  in  communi- 
cation with  the  Grand-historiographer  of  the  empire,  and  engaged 
in  researches  about  its  ancient  poetry,  thus  setting  an  example  of  one 
of  the  works  to  which  Confucius  gave  himself.10  K'aou  gave  birth 
to  K'ung-foo  Kea,11  from  whom  the  surname  of  K'ung  took  its  rise. 
Five  generations  had  now  elapsed  since  the  dukedom  was  held  in 
the  direct  line  of  his  ancestry,  and  it  was  according  to  the  rule  in 
such  cases  that  the  branch  should  cease  its  connection  with  the 
ducal  stem,  and  merge  among  the  people  under  a  new  surname. 
K'ung  Kea  was  Master  of  the  Horse  in  Sung,  and  an  officer  of  well 
known  loyalty  and  probity.  Unfortunately  for  himself,  he  had  a  wife 
of  surpassing  beauty,  of  whom  the  chief  minister  of  the  State,  by 
name  Hwa  Tub,12  happened  on  one  occasion  to  get  a  glimpse.  De- 
termined to  possess  her,  he  commenced  a  series  of  intrigues,  which, 
ended,  B.C.  709,  in  the  murder  of  Kea  and  the  reigning  duke  Shang.13 
At  the  same  time,  Tuh  secured  the  person  of  the  lady,  and  hastened 
to  his  palace  with  the  prize,  but  on  the  way  she  had  strangled  her- 
self with  her  girdle. 

An  enmity  was  thus  commenced  between  the  two  families  of  K'ung 
and  Hwa  which  the  lapse  of  time  did  not  obliterate,  and  the  latter 
being  the  more  powerful  of  the  two,  Keas  great-grandson  withdrew 
into  the  State  of  Loo  to  avoid  their  persecution.  There  he  was  ap- 
pointed commandant  of  the  city  of  Fang,14  and  is  known  in  history 

*§£^-    4 % 3c fa-    5§5f  <*  :£)JnE-    6  T  dr°p here  the  3c  ^ 2d 

tone),  which  teems  to  have  been  used  in  those  times  in  a  manner  equivalent  to  our  Mr.  7  EE 
4V-  8  jE^z  Iff  ;  Tfj  U  ****  *n  the  same  way  as  ^£ ;  see  note  6.  9^,  jj£,  ^g£, 
—  ^.  10.  See  the  ^  gg.,  and  j^J  £g  jf^p  j^  ;  quoted  in  Keang  Yung's  (X  ffl )  ™* 
<rf  CW .icims  which  forms  a  part  of  thu  ^  $£  |g)  %£.        11  ^  %£  ||.        12  fj|  ^. 

™M£-    "Mr- 

°7J  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


pboleoombma.]  CONFUCIUS   AND   HIS  DISCHLES.  [ch.t. 

by  the  name  of  Fang-shuh.15  Fang-shuh  gave  birth  to  Pih-hea,16  and 
from  him  came  Shuh-leang  Heih,17  the  father  of  Confucius.  Heih 
appears  in  the  history  of  the  times  as  a  soldier  of  great  prowess  and 
daring  bravery.  In  the  year  B.C.  562,  when  serving  at  the  siege  of 
a  place  called  Peih-yang,18  a  party  of  the  assailants  made  their  way  in 
at  a  gate  which  had  purposely  been  left  open,  and  no  sooner  were  they 
inside  than  the  portcullis  was  dropped.  Heih  was  just  entering,  and 
catching  the  massive  structure  with  both  his  hands,  he  gradually 
by  dint  of  main  strength  raised  it  and  held  it  up,  till  his  friends  had 
made  their  escape. 

Thus  much  on  the  ancestry  of  the  sage.  Doubtless  he  could 
trace  his  descent  in  the  way  which  has  been  indicated  up  to  the 
imperial  house  of  Yin,  nor  was  there  one  among  his  ancestors  dur- 
ing the  rule  of  Chow  to  whom  he  could  not  refer  with  satisfaction. 
They  had  been  ministers  and  soldiers  of  Sung  and  Loo,  all  men  of 
worth,  and  in  Ching  K'aou,  both  for  his  humility  and  literary 
researches,  Confucius  might  have  special  complacency. 

2.  Confucius  was  the  child  of  Shuh-leang  Heih's  old  age.     The 

soldier  had  married  in  early  life,  but  his  wife  brought  him  only 

daughters, — to  the  number  of  nine,  and  no  son. 

From  his  birth  to  his        _  i  •        i       i      n  i  lJW  , 

first  public  employments.     J3y  a  concubine  he  had  a  son,  named  Mang-p  e 
*'  *°  ~"°   *  and  also  Pih-ne,1  who  proved  a  cripple,  so  that, 

when  he  was  over  seventy  years,  Heih  sought  a  second  wife  in  the 
Yen  family,2  from  which  came  subsequently  Yen  Hwuy,  the  favour- 
ite disciple  of  his  son.  There  were  three  daughters  in  the  family, 
the  youngest  being  named  Ching-tsae.3  Their  father  said  to  them, 
"  Here  is  the  commandant  of  Tsow.  His  father  and  grandfather 
were  only  scholars,  but  his  ancestors  before  them  were  descendants 
of  the  sage  emperors.  He  is  a  man  ten  (vet  high,4  and  of  extraor- 
dinary prowess,  and  I  am  very  desirous  of  his  alliance.  Though  he  is 
old  and  austere,  you  need  have  no  misgivings  about  him.  Which  of 
you  three  will  be  his  wife?"  The  two  elder  danghters  were  silent, 
but  Ching-tsae  said,  "  Why  do  you  ask  us,  father?  It  is  for  you  to 
determine."     "Very  well,"  said  her  father  in  reply,  "you  will  do." 

See,  on  the  length  of  the  ancient  foot,  Ana.  Will,  vi.,  but  the  point  needs  a  more  sifting  investiga- 
tion than  it  has  yet  received. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


mct.  i.]  LIFE   OP  CONFUCIUS.  [pbolegombma. 

Ching-tsae,  accordingly,  became  Heih's  wife,  and  in  due  time  gave 
birth  to  Confucius,  who  received  the  name  of  K'ew,  and  was  subse- 
quently styled  Chung-ne.5  The  event  happened  on  the  21st  day 
of  the  10th  month  of  the  21st  year  of  the  duke  Seang,  of  Loo,  being 
the  20th  year  of  the  emperor  Ling,  B.C.  551.  The  birth-place  was 
in  the  district  of  Tsow,  of  which  Heih  was  the  governor.  It  was 
somewhere  within  the  limits  of  the  present  department  of  Yen-chow 
in  Shan-tung,  but  the  honour  of  being  the  exact  spot  is  claimed  for 
two  places  in  two  different  districts  of  the  department. 

The  notices  which  we  have  of  Confucius  early  years  are  very 
scant}'.  When  he  was  in  his  third  year  his  father  died.  It  is  related  of 

5  -*£f  J^B»  -¥*  $*  ft*  The  leSends  **?  tnat  Ching-tsae,  fearing  lest  she  should  not  have  a 
ion,  in  consequence  of  her  husband's  age,  privately  ascended  the  Ne-k'ew  hill  to  pray  for  the  Ikmhi, 
and  that  when  she  had  obtained  it,  she  commemorated  the  fact  in  the  names — K4ew  and  Chung-ne. 
Bat  the  cripple,  Mang-p'e,  had  previously  been  styled  Pih-ne.  There  was  some  reason,  previous 
to  Confucius*  birth,  for  using  the  term  ne  in  the  family.  As  might  be  expected,  the  birth  of  tlie 
sage  is  surrounded  with  many  prodigious  occurrences.  One  account  is,  that  the  husband  and  wife 
prayed  together  for  a  son  in  a  dell  of  mount  Ne.  As  Ching-tsae  went  up  the  hill,  the  leaves  of 
the  trees  and  plants  all  erected  themselves,  and  bent  downwards  on  her  return.  That  night  she 
dreamt  the  Black  Te  appeared,  and  said  to  her,  *  You  shall  have  a  son,  a  sage,  and  you  must  bring 
him  forth  in  a  hollow  mulberry  tree.'  One  day  during  her  pregnancy,  she  fell  into  a  dreamy 
state,  and  saw  five  old  men  in  the  hall,  who  called  themselves  the  essences  of  the  five  planets,  and 
led  an  aninal  which  looked  like  a  small  cow  with  one  horn,  and  was  covered  with  scales  like  a 
dragon.  This  creature  knelt  before  Ching-tsae,  and  cast  forth  from  its  mouth  a  slip  of  gem,  on 
which  was  the  inscription, — 'The  son  of  the  essence  of  water  shall  succeed  to  the  withering 
Chow,  and  be  a  tlironeless  king.'  Ching-tsae  tied  a  piece  of  embroidered  ribbon  about  its  horn, 
and  the  vision  disappeared.  When  Heih  was  told  of  it,  he  said,  *  The  creature  must  be  the  K'e- 
lin/  As  her  time  drew  near,  Ching-tsae  asked  her  husband  if  there  was  any  place  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood called  'The  hollow  mulberry  tree.*  He  told  her  there  was  a  dry  cave  in  the  south 
hill,  which  went  by  that  name.  Then  she  said,  'I  will  go  and  be  confined  there.1  Her  husband 
was  surprised,  but  when  made  acquainted  with  her  former  dream,  he  made  the  necessary  arrange- 
ments. On  the  night  when  the  child  was  born,  two  dragons  came  and  kept  watch  on  the  left 
and  right  of  the  hill,  and  two  spirit-ladies  appeared  in  the  air,  pouring  out  fragrant  odours,  as  if 
to  bathe  Ching-tsae ;  and  as  soon  as  the  birth  took  place,  a  spring  of  clear  warm  water  bubbled  up 
from  the  floor  of  the  cave,  which  dried  up  again  when  the  child  had  been  washed  in  it.  The  child 
was  of  an  extraordinary  appearance ;  with  a  mouth  like  the  sea,  ox  lips,  a  dragon's  back,  &c.,  &c. 
On  the  top  of  his  head  was  a  remarkable  formation,  in  consequence  of  which  he  was  named  K'ew,  &c. 
See  the  £\\  IS  ^Ri  Bk.  lxxviii. — Sze-ma  Ts'een  seems  to  make  Confucius  to  have  been  ille- 
gitimate, saying  that  Heih  and  Miss  Yen  cohabited  in  the  wilderness  (8ft  >rj  )•  Keang  Yung 
says  that  the  phrase  has  reference  simply  to  the  disparity  of  their  ages. 

6  Sze-ma  Ts'een  says  that  Confucius  was  born  in  the  22d  year  of  duke  Seang,  b.c.  550.  He  is 
followed  by  Choo  He  in  the  short  sketch  of  Confucius'  life  prefixed  to  the  Lun  Yu,  and  by  4The 
Annals  of  the  Empire*  (/§  4\~  4rt£  $jj  ^<)»  published  with  imperial  sanction  iu  the  reign  of 
Kea-k*ing.  (To  this  latter  work  I  have  generally  referred  for  my  dates.)  The  year  assigned  in 
the  text  above  rests  on  the  authority  of  Kuh-leang  and  Kung-yang,  the  two  commentators  on 
the  Ts*nn  Ts*ew.  With  regard  to  the  month,  however,  the  10th  is  that  assigned  by  Kuh-leang, 
while  Kung-yang  names  the  11th.         7  Tsow  is  written  JfiR,  ®?j],  IfflV,  and  3jK 


molboomeha.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ch.t. 

him,  that  as  a  boy  he  used  to  play  at  the  arrangement  of  sacrificial 
vessels,  and  at  postures  of  ceremony.  Of  his  schooling  we  have  no 
reliable  account.  There  is  a  legend,  indeed,  that  at  seven  he  went  to 
school  to  Gran  P'ing-chung,8  but  it  must  be  rejected  as  PHng-chung 
belonged  to  the  State  of  Ts'e.  He  tells  us  himself  that  at  fifteen  he 
bent  his  mind  to  learning  ;9  but  the  condition  of  the  family  was  one 
of  poverty.  At  a  subsequent  period,  when  people  were  astonished 
at  the  variety  of  his  knowledge,  he  explained  it  by  saying  "  When 
I  was  young,  my  condition  was  low,  and  therefore  I  acquired  my 
ability  in  many  things ;  but  they  were  mean  matters."10 

When  he  was  nineteen,  he  married  a  lady  from  the  State  of  Sung, 
of  the  Keen-kwan  family,11  and  in  the  following  year  his  son  Le  was 
born.  On  the  occasion  of  this  event,  the  duke  Ch'aou  sent  him  a 
present  of  a  couple  of  carp.  It  was  to  signify  his  sense  of  his  prince  s 
favour,  that  he  called  his  son  Le  (Tlie  Carp),  and  afterwards  gave 
him  the  designation  of  Pih-yu12  (Fish  Primus).  No  mention  is  made 
of  the  birth  of  any  other  children,  though  we  know,  from  Ana.  V.  L, 
that  he  had  at  least  one  daughter.  The  fact  of  the  duke  of  Loos 
sending  him  a  gift  on  the  occasion  of  Le  s  birth,  shows  that  he  was 
not  unknown,  but  was  already  commanding  public  attention  and 
the  respect  of  the  great. 

It  was  about  this  time,  probably  in  the  year  after  his  marriage, 
that  Confucius  took  his  first  public  employment,  as  keeper  of  the 
stores  of  grain,18  and  in  the  following  year  he  was  put  in  charge  of 
the  public  fields  and  lands.14  Mencius  adduces  these  employments 
in  illustration  of  his  doctrine  that  the  superior  man  may  at  times  take 
office  on  account  of  his  poverty,  but  must  confine  himself  in  such  a 
case  to  places  of  small  emolument,  and  aim  at  nothing  but  the  dis- 
charge of  their  humble  duties.  According  to  him,  Confucius  as 
keeper  of  stores,  said,  "  My  calculations  must  all  be  right : — that  is 
all  I  have  to  care  about;"  and  when  in  charge  of  the  public  fields, 
he  said,  "The  oxen  and  sheep  must  be  fat  and  strong  and  superior: 
— that  is  all  I  have  to  care  about."15     It  does  not  appear  whether 

8  ^  2p  ty.       9  Ana.  II.  iv.        10  Ana.  IX.  vi.         nIc7fc>£^ft*J^- 

12  ^5  0  M>  flS  ^  i 6  Ok '  13  M  H  l£  Thi8  i8  Menciu8'  account.  Sze-ma 
Ts'een  says  &  j&  ^5  J3^  |j* ,  but  his  subsequent  words  ffi  -M"  211  show  that  the  office 
was  the  same.        14  Mencius  calls  this  office  jB?  [JJ ,  while  Sze-ma  Ts'een  says  jS  HJ  Jfi$  jfe. 

16  Mencius,  V.  Pt.  II.  v.  4. 

GO] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


seer,  i.]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [pROLRoomniA. 

these  offices  were  held  by  Confucius  in  the  direct  employment  of  the 
State,  or  as  a  dependent  of  the  Ke  family  in  whose  jurisdiction  he 
lived.  The  present  of  the  carp  from  the  duke  may  incline  us  to 
suppose  the  former. 

3.  In  his  twenty-second  year,  Confucius  commenced  his  labours  as 
a  public  teacher,  and  his  house  became  a  resort  for  young  and 
enquiring  spirits,  who  wished  to  learn  the  doctrines  of  antiquity. 

However  small  the  fee  his  pupils  were  able  to 
wSTS^ffier^^  afford,  he  never  refused  his  instructions.1  All 
2?.ts^?2610ther'  that  ^e  required,  was  an   ardent   desire  for 

improvement,  and  some  degree  of  capacity. 
"  I  do  not  open  up  the  truth,"  he  said,  "  to  one  who  is  not  eager  to 
get  knowledge,  nor  help  out  any  one  who  is  not  anxious  to  explain 
himself.  When  I  have  presented  one  corner  of  a  subject  to  any  one, 
and  he  cannot  from  it  learn  the  other  three,  I  do  not  repeat  my 
lesson."2 

His  mother  died  in  the  year  B.C.  528,  and  he  resolved  that  her 
body  should  lie  in  the  same  grave  with  that  of  his  father,  and  that 
their  common  resting  place  should  be  in  Fang,  the  first  home  of  the 
K'ung  in  Loo.  But  here  a  difficulty  presented  itself.  His  father's 
coffin  had  been  for  twenty  years,  where  it  had  first  been  deposited, 
off  the  road  of  The  Five  Fathers,  in  the  vicinity  of  Tsow : — would  it 
be  right  in  him  to  move  it?  He  was  relieved  from  this  perplexity 
by  an  old  woman  of  the  neighbourhood,  who  told  him  that  the 
coffin  had  only  just  been  put  into  the  ground,  as  a  temporary  ar- 
rangement, and  not  regularly  buried.  On  learning  this,  he  carried 
his  purpose  into  execution.  Both  coffins  were  conveyed  to  Fang, 
and  put  in  the  ground  together,  with  no  intervening  space  between 
them,  as  was  the  custom  in  some  States.  And  now  came  a  new 
perplexity.  He  said  to  himself,  "  In  old  times,  they  had  graves, 
but  raised  no  tumulus  over  them.  But  I  am  a  man,  who  belongs 
equally  to  the  north  and  the  south,  the  east  and  the  west.  I  must 
have  something  by  which  I  can  remember  the  place."  Accordingly 
he  raised  a  mound,  four  feet  high,  over  the  grave,  and  returned 
home,  leaving  a  party  of  his  disciples  to  see  everything  properly 
completed.  In  the  mean  time  there  came  on  a  heavy  storm  of  rain, 
and  it  was  a  considerable  time  before  the  disciples  joined  him. 

1  Ana.  VII.  vii.  2  Ana.  VII.  Yiii. 

61]  Digitized  by  G00gle 


moLtooMEHA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND   HIS   DISCIPLES.  [ch.t. 

"  What  makes  you  so  late?"  he  asked.  "The  grave  in  Fang  fell 
down,"  they  said.  He  made  no  reply,  and  they  repeated  their 
answer  three  times,  when  he  burst  into  tears,  and  said,  u  Ah !  they 
did  not  make  their  graves  so  in  antiquity."8 

Confucius  mourned  for  his  mother  the  regular  period  of  three 
years, — three  years  nominally,  but  in  fact  only  twenty-seven  months. 
Five  days  after  the  mourning  was  expired,  he  played  on  his  lute 
but  could  not  sing.  It  required  other  five  days  before  he  could 
accompany  an  instrument  with  his  voice.4 

Some  writers  have  represented  Confucius  as  teaching  his  disciples 
important  lessons  from  the  manner  in  which  he  buried  his  mother, 
and  having  a  design  to  correct  irregularities  in  the  ordinary  funeral 
ceremonies  of  the  time.  These  things  are  altogether  "without 
book."  We  simply  have  a  dutiful  son  paying  the  last  tribute  of 
affection  to  a  good  parent.  In  one  point  he  departs  from  the  ancient 
practice,  raising  a  mound  over  the  grave,  and  when  the  fresh  earth 
gives  way  from  a  sudden  rain,  he  is  moved  to  tears,  and  seems  to 
regret  his  innovation.  This  sets  Confucius  vividly  before  us,— a 
man  of  the  past  as  much  as  of  the  present,  whose  own  natural  feelings 
were  liable  to  be  hampered  in  their  development  by  the  traditions 
of  antiquity  which  he  considered  sacred.  It  is  important,  however, 
to  observe  the  reason  which  he  gave  for  rearing  the  mound.  He 
had  in  it  a  presentiment  of  much  of  his  future  course.  He  was  "a 
man  of  the  north,  the  south,  the  east,  and  the  west."  He  might 
not  confine  himself  to  any  one  State.  He  would  travel,  and  his  way 
might  be  directed  to  some  "  wise  ruler,"  whom  his  counsels  would 
conduct  to  a  benevolent  sway  that  would  break  forth  on  every  side 
till  it  transformed  the  empire. 

4.  When  the  mourning  for  his  mother  was  over,  Confucius  re- 
mained in  Loo,  but  in  what  special  capacity  we  do  not  know.  Pro- 
bably he  continued  to  encourage  the  resort  of 
coult  rf1^^1^  inquirers  to  whom  he  communicated  instruc- 
b^526— 617  ti°n>  an(^  Pursue(i  his  own  researches  into 

the  history,  literature,  and  institutions  of  the 
empire.     In  the  year  B.C.  524,  the  chief  of  the  small  State  of  T'an,i 

3  Le  Ke,  II.  Pt.  I.  i.  10 ;  Pt  II.  iii.  30 ;  Pt.  I.  i.  6.    See  also  the  discussion  of  those  passages  in 
Keang  Yung's  'Life  of  Confucius.'        4  Le  Ke,  II.  Pt.  I.  i.  22. 

1  See  the  Ts'un  Ts'ew,  under  the  7th  year  of  duke  Ch'aou.— ^  |j|5  "J1  ^5  l|JJ- 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


'.i. J  LIFB   OF   CONFUCIUS.  [prolegomena. 

made  his  appearance  at  the  court  of  Loo,  and  discoursed  in  a  won- 
derful manner,  at  a  feast  given  to  him  by  the  duke,  about  the  names 
which  the  most  ancient  sovereigns,  from  Hwang-te  downwards,  gave 
to  their  ministers.  The  sacrifices  to  the  emperor  Shaou-haou,  the 
next  in  desceut  from  Hwang-te,  were  maintained  in  T'an,  so  that 
the  chief  fancied  that  he  knew  all  about  the  abstruse  subject  on 
which  he  discoursed.  Confucius,  hearing  about  the  matter,  waited 
on  the  visitor,  and  learned  from  him  all  that  he  had  to  communi- 
cate.2 

To  the  year  B.C.  523,  when  Confucius  was  twenty-nine  years  old, 
k  referred  his  studying  music  under  a  famous  master  of  the  name  of 
Seang.3  He  was  approaching  his  30th  year  when,  as  he  tells  us,  "he 
stood  "4  firm,  that  is,  in  his  convictions  on  the  subjects  of  learning 
to  which  he  had  bent  his  mind  fifteen  years  before.  Five  years 
more,  however,  were  still  to  pass  by,  before  the  anticipation  mention- 
ed in  the  conclusion  of  the  last  paragraph  began  to  receive  its 
fulfilment,5  though  we  may  conclude  from  the  way  in  which  it  was 
brought  about  that  he  was  growing  all  the  time  in.  the  estimation 
of  the  thinking  minds  in  his  native  State. 

In  the  24th  year  of  duke  Ch'aou,  B.C.  517,  one  of  the  principal 
ministers  of  Loo,  known  by  the  name  of  M&ng  He,  died.  Seventeen 
years  before,  he  had  painfully  felt  his  ignorance  of  ceremonial  obser- 
vances, and  had  made  it  his  subsequent  business  to  make  himself 
acquainted  with  them.  On  his  deathbed,  he  addressed  his  chief 
officer,  saying,  "  A  knowledge  of  propriety  is  the  stem  of  a  man. 
Without  it  he  has  no  means  of  standing  firm.  I  have  heard  that 
there  is  one  K'ung  Kew,  who  is  thoroughly  versed  in  it.  He  is  a 
descendant  of  Sages,  and  though  the  line  of  his  family  was  extin- 
guished in  Sung,  among  his  ancestors  there  were  Fuh-foo  Ho,  who 
resigned  the  dukedom  to  his  brother,  and  Ching  K'aou-foo,  who  was 

2  Thi»  rests  on  the  respectable  authority  of  Tso-k'ew  Ming's  annotations  on  the  Ts'un  Ts'ew, 
bat  I  mast  consider  it  apocryphal.  The  legend- writers  have  fashioned  a  journey  to  T'an.  The 
slightest  historical  intimation  becomes  a  text  with  them,  on  which  they  enlarge  to  the  glory  of 
the  sage.  Amiot  has  reproduced  and  expanded  their  romancings,  and  others,  such  as  Pauthier 
(Chine,  pp.  121-183)  and  Thornton  f  History  of  China,  vol.  I.  pp.  151-215)  have  followed  in  his 
wake.  3  gfjj  Ig  See  the  « Family  Sayings,'  j&  =£,  art.  ||j:  |j|  j|£  ;  but  the  account 
there  given  is  not  more  credible  than  the  chiet   of  T'an's  expositions.  4  Ana.  II.  iv. 

5  The  jonrney  to  Chow  is  placed  by  Sze-ma  Ts'een  before  Confucius'  holding  of  his  first 
official  employments,  and  Choo  He  and  most  other  writers  follow  him.  It  is  a  great  error,  and 
arisen  from  a  misunderstanding  of  the  passage  from  the  jfc  j^F  >jS  upon  the  subject. 

63J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


PROLEGOMBKiL]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ch.  t. 

distinguished  for  his  humility.  Tsang  Heih  has  observed  that  if 
sage  men  of  intelligent  virtue  do  not  attain  to  eminence,  distinguish- 
ed men  are  sure  to  appear  among  their  posterity.  His  words  are 
now  to  be  verified,  I  think,  in  K'ung  K'ew.  After  my  death,  you 
must  tell  Ho-ke  to  go  and  study  proprieties  under  him."6  In  con- 
sequence of  this  charge,  Ho-ke,7  Mang  He's  son,  who  appears  in  the 
Analects  under  the  name  of  Mang  E,8  and  a  brother,  or  perhaps 
only  a  near  relative,  named  Nan-kung  King-shuh,9  became  disciples 
of  Confucius.  Their  wealth  and  standing  in  the  State  gave  him  a 
position  which  he  had  not  had  before,  and  he  told  King-shuh  of  a 
wish  which  he  had  to  visit  the  court  of  Chow,  and  especially  to 
confer  on  the  subject  of  ceremonies  and  music  with  Laou  Tan.  King- 
shuh  represented  the  matter  to  the  duke  Ch'aou,  who  put  a  carriage 
and  a  pair  of  horses  at  Confucius'  disposal  for  the  expedition.10 

At  this  time  the  court  of  Chow  was  in  the  city  of  Lo,11  in  the 
present  department  of  Ho-nan  of  the  province  of  the  same  name. 
The  reigning  emperor  is  known  by  the  title  of  King,12  but  the  sove- 
reignty was  little  more  than  nominal.  The  state  of  China  was  then 
analogous  to  that  of  one  of  the  European  kingdoms  during  the  pre- 
valence of  the  feudal  system.  At  the  commencement  of  the  dynasty, 
the  various  States  of  the  empire  had  been  assigned  to  the  relatives 
and  adherents  of  the  reigning  family.  There  were  thirteen  princi- 
palities of  greater  note,  and  a  large  number  of  smaller  dependencies. 
During  the  vigorous  youth  of  the  dynasty,  the  emperor  or  lord 
paramount  exercised  an  effective  control  over  the  various  chiefs,  but 
with  the  lapse  of  time  there  came  weakness  and  decay.  The  chiefs — 
corresponding  somewhat  to  the  European  dukes,  earls,  marquises,  bar- 
ons, &c, — quarreled  and  warred  among  themselves,  and  the  stronger 
among  them  barely  acknowledged  their  subjection  to  the  emperor. 
A  similar  condition  of  things  prevailed  in  each  particular  State. 
There  there  were  hereditary  ministerial  families,  who  were  contin- 
ually encroaching  on  the  authority  of  their  rulers,  and  the  heads  of 
those  families  again  were  frequently  hard  pressed  by  their  inferior 
officers.     Such  was  the  state  of  China  in  Confucius  time.      The 

V&,  J$L*  10  Tne  35c  vu  makes  King-shuh  accompany  Confucius  to  Chow.  It  is  difficult  to 
understand  this,  if  King-shuh  were  really  a  son  of  Mang  lie  who  had  died  that  year.        11  j&. 

12  $$l  3E  (B-c- 518-475)' 

^J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


OCT.L]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [pbolbqombna. 

reader  must  have  it  clearly  before  him,  if  he  would  understand  the 
position  of  the  sage,  and  the  reforms  which,  we  shall  find,  it  waa 
subsequently  his  object  to  introduce. 

Arrived  at  Chow,  he  had  no  intercourse  with  the  court  or  any  of  the 
principal  ministers.  He  was  there  not  as  a  politician,  but  an  inquirer 
about  the  ceremonies  and  maxims  of  the  founders  of  the  dynasty. 
Laou  Tan,18  whom  he  had  wished  to  see,  the  acknowledged  founder 
of  the  Taouists,  or  Rationalistic  sect  which  has  maintained  its  ground 
iu  opposition  to  the  followers  of  Confucius,  was  then  a  treasury- 
keeper.  They  met  and  freely  interchanged  their  views,  but  no 
reliable  account  of  their  conversations  has  been  preserved.  Jn  the 
5th  Book  of  the  Le  Ke,  which  is  headed,  "  The  philosopher  Ts&ng 
asked,"  Confucius  refers  four  times  to  the  views  of  Laou-tsze  on 
certain  points  of  funeral  ceremonies,  and  in  the  "  Family  Sayings/' 
Book  xxiv.,  he  tells  Ke  K'ang  what  he  had  heard  from  him  about 
"  The  Five  Tes,"  but  we  may  hope  their  conversation  turned  also  on 
more  important  subjects.  Sze-ma  Ts'een,  favourable  to  Laou-tsze, 
makes  him  lecture  his  visitor  in  the  following  style: — "Those  whom 
you  talk  about  are  dead,  and  their  bones  are  mouldered  to  dust; 
only  their  words  remain.  When  the  superior  man  gets  his  time,  he 
mounts  aloft;  but  when  the  time  is  against  him,  he  moves  as  if  his 
feet  were  entangled.  I  have  heard  that  a  good  merchant,  though 
he  has  rich  treasures  deeply  stored,  appears  as  if  he  were  poor,  and 
that  the  superior  man  whose  virtue  is  complete,  is  yet  to  outward 
seeming  stupid.  Put  away  your  proud  air  and  many  desires,  your 
insinuating  habit  and  wild  will.14  These  are  of  no  advantage  to 
you.  This  is  all  which  I  have  to  tell  you."  On  the  other  hand, 
Confucius  is  made  to  say  to  his  disciples,  "  I  know  how  birds  can 
fly,  how  fishes  can  swim,  and  how  animals  can  run.  But  the  run- 
ner may  be  snared,  the  swimmer  may  be  hooked,  and  the  flyer  may 
be  shot  by  the  arrow.  But  there  is  the  dragon.  I  cannot  tell  how 
he  mounts  on  the  wind  through  the  clouds,  and  rises  to  heaven. 
To-day  I  have  seen  Laou-tsze,  and  can  only  compare  him  to  the 
dragon/'15 

13  Aecordiag  to  Sze-ma  Ta'een,  Taa  was  the  posthumous  epithet  of  this  individual,  whose 
surname  wis  Le  (35),  name  Urh  (S),  and  designation  Pih-yang  ('fifo  K&).         14  ^Jft  1||| 

l&  J^r  4s5-       16  See  tbe  jfe  lfi»  &i  ^  %  5El>  and  comParc  the  remark*  attributed  to 
Laou-tsze  in  the  account  of  the  K'ung  fauiily  ueur  the  beginning. 

65] 


MtOLEOOMBKA.]  CONFUCIUS   AND   HIS  DISCIPLES.  [<».▼• 

While  at  L5,  Confucius  walked  over  the  grounds  set  apart  for 
the  great  sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth  ;  inspected  the  pattern  of 
the  Hall  of  Light,  built  to  give  audience  in  to  the  princes  of  the 
empire;  and  examined  all  the  arrangements  of  the  ancestral 
temple  and  the  court.  From  the  whole  he  received  a  profound 
impression,  "  Now/'  said  he  with  a  sigh,  "  I  know  the  sage  wisdom 
of  the  duke  of  Chow,  and  how  the  house  of  Chow  attained  to  the 
imperial  sway."16  On  the  walls  of  the  Hall  of  Light  were  paintings 
of  the  ancient  sovereigns  from  Yaou  and  Shun  downwards,  their 
characters  appearing  in  the  representations  of  them,  and  words  of 
praise  or  warning  being  appended.  There  was  also  a  picture  of  the 
duke  of  Chow  sitting  with  his  infant  nephew,  the  king  Shing,  upon 
his  knees,  to  give  audience  to  all  the  princes.  Confucius  surveyed 
the  scene  with  silent  delight,  and  then  said  to  his  followers,  "  Here 
you  see  how  Chow  became  so  great.  As  we  use  a  glass  to  examine 
the  forms  of  things,  so  must  we  study  antiquity  in  order  to  under- 
stand the  present."17  In  the  hall  of  the  ancestral  temple,  there  wns 
a  metal  statue  of  a  man  with  three  clasps  upon  his  mouth,  and  his 
back  covered  over  with  an  enjoyable  homily  on  the  duty  of  keeping 
a  watch  upon  the  lips.  Confucius  turned  to  his  disciples  and  said, 
44  Observe  it,  my  children.  These  words  are  true,  and  commend 
themselves  to  our  feelings."18 

About  music  he  made  inquiries  at  Ch'ang  Hwang,  to  whom  the 
following  remarks  are  attributed  : — "  I  have  observed  about  Chung- 
ne  many  marks  of  a  sage.  His  has  river  eyes  and  a  dragon  forehead, 
— the  very  characteristics  of  Hwang-te.  His  arms  are  long,  his 
back  is  like  a  tortoise,  and  he  is  nine  feet  six  inches  in  height, — the 
very  semblance  of  T'ang  the  Completer.  When  he  speaks,  he  praises 
the  ancient  kings.  He  moves  along  the  path  of  humility  and 
courtesy.  He  has  heard  of  every  subject,  and  retains  with  a  strong 
memory.  His  knowledge  of  tilings  seems  inexhaustible. — Have  we 
not  in  him  the  rising  of  a  sage?"19 

1  have  given  these  notices  of  Confucius  at  the  court  of  Chow, 
more  as  being  the  only  ones  I  could  find,  than  because  1  put  much 
faith  in  them.  He  did  not  remain  there  long,  but  returned  the 
same  year  to  Loo,  and  continued  his  work  of  teachings     His  fame 

16,  17,  18  See  the  ^  gj}-,  jfg  ^  art.  jgj  jjj.        10  Quoted  hy  Kean3  Yung  from  •  ITie 
Family  Sayings.' 

G(il  Digitized  by  G00gk 


mct.i.]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [prolboomiou. 

was  greatly  increased ;  disciples  came  to  him  from  different  parts, 
till  their  number  amounted  to  three  thousand.  Several  of  those 
who  have  come  down  to  us  as  the  most  distinguished  among  his 
followers,  however,  were  yet  unborn,  and  the  statement  just  given 
may  be  considered  as  an  exaggeration.  We  are  not  to  conceive  of 
the  disciples  as  forming  a  community,  and  living  together.  Parties 
of  them  may  have  done  so.  We  shall  find  Confucius  hereafter 
always  moving  amid  a  company  of  admiring  pupils ;  but  the  greater 
number  must  have  had  their  proper  avocations  and  ways  of  living, 
and  would  only  resort  to  the  master,  when  they  wrished  specially  to 
ask  his  counsel  or  to  learn  of  him. 

5.  In  the  year  succeeding  the  return  to  Loo,  that  State  fell  into 
great  confusion.  There  were  three  Families  in  it,  all  connected 
irregularly  with  the  ducal  house,  who  had  long  kept  the  rulers  in  a 

condition  of  dependency.     They  appear  fre- 


retitras  'to  LoTthe  fJLrhlg      quently  in  the  Analects  as  the  Ke  clan,  the 


He  withdraw*  to  Tf  *e,  and 
>tnrns  to  Loo  the  following 

year.  bx.  516, 510.  Shu^  am\  the  Milng ;  and  while  Confucius 

freely  spoke  of  their  usurpations,!  he  was  a  sort  of  dependent  of  the 
Ke  family,  and  appears  in  frequent  communication  with  members  of 
all  the  three.  In  the  year  B.C.  516,  the  duke  Ch'aou  came  to  open 
hostilities  with  them,  and  being  worsted,  fled  into  Ts'e,  the  State 
adjoining  Loo  on  the  north.  Thither  Confucius  also  repaired,  that 
he  might  avoid  the  prevailing  disorder  of  his  native  State.  Tsle 
was  then  under  the  government  of  a  duke,  afterwards  styled  King, 2 
who  "  had  a  thousand  teams,  each  of  four  horses,  but  on  the  day  of 
his  death  the  people  did  not  praise  him  for  a  single  virtue."3  His 
chief  minister,  however,  was  Gan  Ying,4  a  man  of  considerable  ability 
and  worth.  At  his  court  the  music  of  the  ancient  sage-emperor, 
Shun,  originally  brought  to  T*se  from  the  State  of  Ts'in,5  was  still 
preserved. 

According  to  the  "Family  Sayings,"  an  incident  occurred  on  the 
way  to  Ts'e,  which  I  may  transfer  to  these  pages  as  a  good  speci- 
men of  the  way  in  which  Confucius  turned  occurring  matters  to 
account,  in  his  intercourse  with  his  disciples.  As  he  was  passing 
by  the  side  of  the  T'ae  mountain,  there  was  a  woman  weeping  and 
wailing  by  a  grave.     Confucius  bent  forward  in  his  carriage,  and 

1  See  Analects,  m.  L,  iL,  ef  al.        2.  f^jr  £.         8  Ana.  XVI.  xii.  4  §§§•    This 

U  the  same  who  was  afterwards  styled  Si  2QL  -Ah         5  JJfi . 

67] 


rwoLEOornvsA,]  CONFUCIUS  ATTD  HIS  DISCIPLES,  [cilt. 

after  listening  to  her  for  some  time,  sent  Tsze-loo  to  ask  the  cause  of 
her  grief.  "  You  weep,  as  if  you  had  experienced  sorrow  upon 
sorrow,"  said  Tsze-loo.  The  woman  replied,  "  It  is  so.  My  hus- 
band's father  was  killed  here  by  a  tiger,  and  my  husband  also ;  and 
now  my  son  has  met  the  same  fate."  Confucius  asked  her  why  she  did 
not  remove  from  the  place,  and  on  her  answering,  "  There  is  here  no 
oppressive  government,"  he  turned  to  his  disciples,  and  said,  "  My 
children,  remember  this.  Oppressive  government  is  fiercer  than  a 
tiger."* 

As  soon  as  he  crossed  the  border  from  Loo,  we  are  told  he 
discovered  from  the  gait  and  man  ners  of  a  boy,  whom  he  saw  carrying 
a  pitcher,  the  influence  of  the  sage's  music,  and  told  the  driver  of  his 
carriage  to  hurry  on  to  the  capital.7  Arrived  there,  he  heard  the 
strain,  and  was  so  ravished  with  it,  that  for  three  months  he  did 
not  know  the  taste  of  flesh.  "I  did  not  think,"  he  said,  "that 
music  could  have  been  made  so  excellent  as  this."8  The  duke  King 
was  pleased  with  the  conferences  which  he  had  with  him,9  and 
proposed  to  assign  to  him  the  town  of  Lin-k'ew,  from  the  revenues 
of  which  he  might  derive  a  sufficient  support ;  but  Confucius  refused 
the  gift,  and  said  to  his  disciples,  "  A  superior  man  will  only  receive 
reward  for  services  which  he  has  done.  I  have  given  advice  to  the 
duke  King,  but  he  has  not  yet  obeyed  it,  and  now  he  would  endow 
me  with  this  place  I     Very  far  is  he  from  understanding  me."10 

On  one  occasion  the  duke  asked  about  government,  and  received 
the  characteristic  reply,  "  There  is  government  when  the  prince  i9 
prince,  and  the  minister  is  minister;  when  the  father  is  father,  and 
the  son  is  son."11  I  say  that  the  reply  is  characteristic.  Once,  when 
Tsz-loo  asked  him  what  he  would  consider  the  first  thing  to  be  done 
if  entrusted  with  the  government  of  a  State,  Confucius  answered, 
"  What  is  necessary  is  to  rectify  names."12  The  disciple  thought  the 

6  See  the  ||£  §E,  j&  JJEJ,  art-  J£  fjflf  $?•  *  ta*Te  translated,  however,  from  the  Le  Ke, 
II.  Pt  II.  iii.  10,  where  the  same  incident  is  given,  with  some  variations,  and  without  saving 
when  or  where  it  occurred.  7  See  the  ^  ^£,  j&  -j-  "^,  p.  18.  8  Ana.  WL  xiil 

9  Some  of  these  are  related  in  the  Family  Sayings ; — about  the  burning  of  the  ancestral  shrine 
of  the  emperor  flgF,  and  a  one-footed  bird  which  appeared  hopping  and  flapping  its  wings  in  Ts*e. 
They  are  plainly  fabulous,  though  quoted  in  proof  of  Confucius*  sage  wisdom.  This  reference  to 
them  is  more  than  enough.  10  ^  ^,   j&    ^,  ^  ^  11.  Ana.  XH  ». 

12  Ana.  XIII.  iii. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Oct.!.]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [pholtoomwia. 

reply  wide  of  the  mark,  but  it  was  substantially  the  same  with  what 
he  said  to  the  duke  King.  There  is  a  sufficient  foundation  in 
nature  for  government  in  the  several  relations  of  society,  and  if 
those  be  maintained  and  developed  according  to  their  relative 
rignificancy,  it  is  sure  to  obtain.  This  was  a  first  principle  in  the 
political  ethics  of  Confucius. 

Another  day  the  duke  got  to  a  similar  inquiry  the  reply  that  the 
art  of  government  lay  in  an  economical  use  of  the  revenues ;  and 
being  pleased,  he  resumed  his  purpose  of  retaining  the  philosopher  in 
bis  State,  and  proposed  to  assign  to  him  the  fields  of  Ne-k'e.  His 
chief  minister  Gan  Ying  dissuaded  him  from  the  purpose,  saying, 
"  Those  scholars  are  impracticable,  and  cannot  be  imitated.  They 
are  haughty  and  conceited  of  their  own  views,  so  that  they  will  not 
be  content  in  inferior  positions.  They  set  a  high  value  on  all 
funeral  ceremonies,  give  way  to  their  grief,  and  will  waste  their 
property  on  great  burials,  so  that  they  would  only  be  injurious  to  the 
common  manners.  This  Mr  K'ung  has  a  thousand  peculiarities.  It 
would  take  generations  to  exhaust  all  that  he  knows  about  the 
ceremonies  of  going  up  and  going  down.  This  is  not  the  time  to 
examine  into  his  rules  of  propriety.  If  you,  prince,  wish  to  employ 
him  to  change  the  customs  of  Ts'e,  you  will  not  be  making  the 
people  your  primary  consideration."18 

I  had  rather  believe  that  these  were  not  the  words  of  Gan  Ying, 
but  they  must  represent  pretty  correctly  the  sentiments  of  many 
of  the  statesmen  of  the  time  about  Confucius.  The  duke  of  Ts'e 
got  tired  ere  long  of  having  such  a  monitor  about  him,  and  observ* 
ed,  "  I  cannot  treat  him  as  I  would  the  chief  of  the  Ke  family.  I 
will  treat  him  in  a  way  between  that  accorded  to  the  chief  of  the  Ke, 
and  that  given  to  the  chief  of  the  Mang  family."  Finally  he  said,  "  I 
am  old ;  I  cannot  use  his  doctrines."14  These  observations  were  made 
directly  to  Confucius,  or  came  to  his  hearing.15  It  was  not  consis- 
tent with  his  self-respect  to  remain  longer  in  Ts'e,  and  he  returned 
to  Loo.16 

6.  Returned  to  Loo,  he  remained  for  the  long  period  of  about 

IS  Sec  the  j£  §£,  ^  -^  f|£  ^,  p.  2.  H  Ana.  X  Vm.  iii.  15  Sze-ma  Ts*een 

nukes  the  first  observation  to  have  been  addressed  directly  to  Confucius.  16  According  te 

the  aboTe  account  Confucius  was  only  once,  and  for  a  portion  of  two  years,  in  Ts'e.    For  the 
refutation  of  contrary  accounts,  see  Keang  Yung's  Life  of  the  sage. 


69] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


**ol»ooiik!Ca.]  CONFUCIUS   AND   HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ch.t. 

fifteen  years  without  being  engaged  in  any  official  employment.     It 
was  a  time,  indeed,  of  great  disorder.     The  duke 
office  in  L^"8  W1  °ut      Ch'aou  continued  a  refugee  in  Tse,  the  govern- 
b.c.  515-501.  ment  being  in  the  hands  of  the  great  Families,  up 

to  his  death  in  B.C.  509,  on  which  event  the  rightful  heir  was  set 
aside,  and  another  member  of  the  ducal  house,  known  to  us  by  the 
title  of  Ting,1  substituted  in  his  place.  The  ruling  authority  of  the 
principality  became  thus  still  more  enfeebled  than  it  had  been  be- 
fore, and,  on  the  other  hand,  the  chiefs  of  the  Ke,  the  Shuh,  and  the 
M&ng,  could  hardly  keep  their  ground  against  their  own  officers. 
Of  those  latter  the  two  most  conspicuous  were  Yang  Hoo,2  called 
also  Yang  Ho,8  and  Kung-shan  Fuh-jaou.4  At  one  time  Ke  Hwan, 
the  most  powerful  of  the  chiefs,  was  kept  a  prisoner  by  Yang  Hoo, 
and  was  obliged  to  make  terms  with  him  in  order  to  secure  his 
liberation.  Confucius  would  give  his  countenance  to  none,  as  he 
disapproved  of  all,  and  he  studiously  kept  aloof  from  them.  Of  how 
he  comported  himself  among  them  we  have  a  specimen  in  the  inci- 
dent related  in  the  Analects,  xvn.  i.-"  Yang  Ho  wished  to  see  Con- 
fucius, but  Confucius  would  not  go  to  see  him.  On  this,  he  sent  a 
present  of  a  pig  to  Confucius,  who,  having  chosen  a  time  when  Ho 
was  not  at  home,  went  to  pay  his  respects  for  the  gift.  He  met 
him,  however,  on  the  way.  i  Come,  let  me  speak  with  you,'  said  the 
officer.  '  Can  he  be  called  benevolent,  who  keeps  his  jewel  in  his 
bosom,  and  leaves  his  country  to  confusion  ? '  Confucius  replied, 
i  No.'  '  Can  he  be  called  wise,  who  is  anxious  to  be  engaged  in 
public  employment,  and  yet  is  constantly  losing  the  opportunity  of 
being  so?'  Confucius  again  said,  'No/  The  other  added,  *Thc 
days  and  months  are  passing  away;  the  years  do  not  wait  for  us.' 
Confucius  said,  '  Right ;  I  will  go  into  office.' "  Chinese  writers  are 
eloquent  in  their  praises  of  the  sage  for  the  combination  of  propriety, 
complaisance,  and  firmness,  which  they  see  in  his  behaviour  in  this 
matter.  To  myself  there  seems  nothing  remarkable  in  it  but  a 
somewhat  questionable  dexterity.  But  it  was  well  for  the  fame  of 
Confucius  that  his  time  was  not  occupied  during  those  years  with 
official  services.  He  turned  them  to  better  account,  prosecuting  his 
researches  into  the  poetry,  history,  ceremonies,  and  music  of  the 
empire.  Many  disciples  continued  to  resort  to  him,  and  the  legendary 

!%£       2^J&      «»»■      <£  ft  ft  &<£&*>- 

■"  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


sect,  i.]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [pkolboombha. 

writers  tell  us  how  he  employed  their  services  in  digesting  the  results 
of  his  studies.  I  must  repeat,  however,  that  several  of  them,  whose 
names  are  most  famous,  such  as  Tsang  Sin,  were  as  yet  children,  and 
Min  Sun5  was  not  born  till  B.C.  500. 

To  this  period  we  must  refer  the  almost  single  instance  which 
we  have  of  the  manner  of  Confucius'  intercourse  with  his  son  Le. 
"  Have  you  heard  any  lessons  from  your  father  different  from  what 
we  have  all  heard?"  asked  one  of  the  disciples  once  of  Le.  .  "No," 
said  Le.  "  He  was  standing  alone  once,  when  I  was  passing  through 
the  court  below  with  hasty  steps,  and  said  to  me,  '  Have  you  read  the 
Odes?'  On  my  replying,  'Not  yet,'  he  added,  4  If  you  do  not  learn 
the  Odes,  you  will  not  be  fit  to  converse  with.'  Another  day,  in  the 
same  place  and  the  same  way,  he  said  to  me,  '  Have  you  read  the 
rules  of  Propriety  ?'  On  my  replying,  *  Not  yet,'  he  added,  '  If  you 
do  not  learn  the  rules  of  Propriety,  your  character  cannot  be  establish- 
ed.' 1  have  heard  only  these  two  things  from  him."  The  disciple 
was  delighted  and  observed,  "  I  asked  one  thing,  and  I  have  got 
three  things.  I  have  heard  about  the  Odes.  I  have  heard  about 
the  rules  of  Propriety.  I  have  also  heard  that  the  superior  man 
maintains  a  distant  reserve  towards  his  son  "6 

I  can  easily  believe  that  this  distant  reserve  was  the  rule  which 
Confucius  followed  generally  in  his  treatment  of  his  son.  A  stern 
dignity  is  the  quality  which  a  father  has  to  maintain  upon  his  system, 
It  is  not  to  be  without  the  element  of  kindness,  but  that  must  never 
po  beyond  the  line  of  propriety.  There  is  too  little  room  left  for  the 
play  and  development  of  natural  affection. 

The  divorce  of  his  wife  must  also  have  taken  place  during  these 
years,  if  it  ever  took  place  at  all,  which  is  a  disputed  point.  The 
curious  reader  will  find  the  question  discussed  in  the  notes  on  the 
second  Book  of  the  Le  Ke.  The  evidence  inclines,  I  think,  against 
the  supposition  that  Confucius  did  put  his  wife  away.  When  she 
died,  at  a  period  subsequent  to  the  present,  Le  kept  on  weeping 
aloud  for  her  after  the  period  for  such  a  demonstration  of  grief  had 
expired,  when  Confucius  sent  a  message  to  him  that  his  sorrow  must 
be  subdued,  and  the  obedient  son  dried  his  tears.7  We  are  glad  to 
biow  that  on  one  occasion — the  death  of  his  favourite  disciple,  Yen 

5  J*J  $|.        6.  .Vila  XVI.  xiii.  7    Sec  the  Le  Ke  II.  Pt  L  i.  27. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


noLBOoMBHA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HI8  DISCIPLES.  [ch.t#; 

Hwuy — the  tears  of  Confucius  himself  would  flow  over  and  above 
the  measure  of  propriety.8 

7  We  come  to  the  short  period  of  Confucius'  official  life.     In  the 

He  holds  office.  year  B-c-^^l,  things  had  come  to  a  head  between  the 
b.c.  600-496.  chiefs  of  the  three  Families  and  their  ministers,  and 

had  resulted  in  the  defeat  of  the  latter.  In  B.C.  500,  the  resources 
of  Yang  Hoo  were  exhausted,  and  he  fled  into  Ts'e,  so  that  the 
State  was  delivered  from  its  greatest  troubler,  and  the  way  was 
made  more  clear  for  Confucius  to  go  into  office,  should  an  oppor- 
tunity occur.  It  soon  presented  itself.  Towards  the  end  of  that 
year  he  was  made  chief  magistrate  of  the  town  of  Chung-too.* 

Just  before  he  received  this  appointment,  a  circumstance  occured 
of  which  we  do  not  well  know  what  to  make.  When  Yang-hoo  fled 
into  Ts'e,  Kung-shan  Fuh-jaou,  who  had  been  confederate  with  hiin, 
continued  to  maintain  an  attitude  of  rebellion,  and  held  the  city  of 
Pe  against  the  Ke  family.  Thence  he  sent  a  message  to  Confucius 
inviting  him  to  join  him,  and  the  sage  seemed  so  inclined  to  go 
that  his  disciple  Tsze-loo  remonstrated  with  him,  saying,  "  Indeed 
you  cannot  go !  why  must  you  think  of  going  to  see  Kung-shan  ?  w 
Confucius  replied,  "  Can  it  be  without  some  reason  that  he  has  in- 
vited me  ?  If  any  one  employ  me,  may  I  not  make  an  eastern 
Chow?"2  The  upshot,  however,  was  that  he  did  not  go,  and  I 
cannot  suppose  that  he  had  ever  any  serious  intention  of  doing  so. 
Amid  the  general  gravity  of  his  intercourse  with  his  followers,  there 
gleam  out  a  few  instances  of  quiet  pleasantry,  when  he  amused  him- 
self by  playing  with  their  notions  about  him.  This  was  probably 
one  of  them. 

As  magistrate  of  Chung-too  he  produced  a  marvellous  reformation 
of  the  manners  of  the  people  in  a  short  time.  According  to  the 
"  Family  Sayings,"  he  enacted  rules  for  the  nourishing  of  the  living 
and  all  observances  to  the  dead.  Different  food  was  assigned  to  the 
old  and  the  young,  and  different  burdens  to  the  strong  and  the  weak. 
Males  and  females  kept  apart  from  each  other  in  the  streets.     A 

8  Ana.  XL  ix. 

1  Pp  :g|$  3?.  Amiot  says  this  was  *  la  viiic  racme  ou  Ie  Souverain  tcnoit  sa  Cour'  (Vie  do 
Confucius,  p.  147).  He  is  followed  of  course  by  Thornton  and  Pauthicr.  My  reading  has  not  shown 
me  that  such  was  the  case.  In  the  notes  to  K'ang-he's  edition  of  the  *  Five  King,'  Le  Ke,  II. 
Tt.  I.  iii.  4,  it  is  simply  said — '  Chung-too, — the  name  of  a  town  of  Loo.  It  afterwards  belonged 
to  TVe  when  it  was  called  P'ing-luh  (2p  j^|).»  2  Ana.  XVIL  v. 

"*  Digitized  by  G00gle 


sect,  t]  LIFE   OF  CONFUCIUS.  [fsolegoxkxa* 

thing  dropt  on  the  road  was  not  picked  up.  There  was  no  fraudu- 
lent carving  of  vessels.  Inner  coffins  were  made  four  inches  thick, 
and  the  outer  ones  five.  Graves  were  made  on  the  high  grounds, 
no  mounds  being  raised  over  them,  and  no  trees  planted  about  them. 
Within  twelve  months,  the  princes  of  the  States  all  about  wished  to 
imitate  his  style  of  administration.8 

The  duke  Ting,  surprised  at  what  he  saw,  asked  whether  his  rules 
could  be  employed  to  govern  a  whole  State,  and  Confucius  told  him 
that  they  might  be  applied  to  the  whole  empire.  On  this  the  duke 
appointed  him  assistant-superintendent  of  Works,4  in  which  capacity 
he  surveyed  the  lands  of  the  State,  and  made  many  improvements  in 
agriculture.  From  this  he  was  quickly  made  minister  of  Crime,* 
and  the  appointment  was  enough  to  put  an  end  to  crime.  There 
was  no  necessity  to  put  the  penal  laws  in  execution.  No  offenders 
showed  themselves.6 

These  indiscriminating  eulogies  are  of  little  value.  One  inci- 
dent, related  in  the  annotations  of  Tso-k'ew  on  the  Ts'un  TsW,7 
commends  itself  at  once  to  our  belief,  as  in  harmony  with  Confucius* 
character.  The  chief  of  the  Ke,  pursuing  with  his  enmity  the  duke 
Ch'aou,  even  after  his  death,  had  placed  his  grave  apart  from  the 
graves  of  liis  predecessors;  and  Confucius  surrounded  the  ducal 
cemetery  with  a  ditch  so  as  to  include  the  solitary  resting-place,  boldly- 
telling  the  chief  that  he  did  it  to  hide  his  disloyalty.8  But  he  signa- 
lized himself  most  of  all,  in  B.C.  499,  by  his  behaviour  at  an  interview 
between  the  dukes  of  Loo  and  Ts'e,  at  a  place  called  Shih-k'e,9  and 
Kefc-kuh,10  in  the  present  district  of  Lae-woo,  in  the  department  of 
T'ae-gan.11  Confucius  was  present  as  master  of  ceremonies  on  the 
part  of  Loo,  and  the  meeting  was  professedly  pacific.  The  two 
princes  were  to  form  a  covenant  of  alliance.  The  principal  officer 
on  the  part  of  Ts'e,  however,  despising  Confucius  as  "a  man  of 
ceremonies,  without  courage,"  had  advised  his  sovereign  to  make 
the  duke  of  Loo  a  prisoner,  and  for  this  purpose  a  band  of  the  half- 
savage  original  inhabitants  of  the  place  advanced  with  weapons  to 
the  stage  where  the  two  dukes  were  met     Confucius  understood 

3  ^  Sfi.,  Bk  L        4  ffj  jEjJ.    This  office,  however,  was  held  by  the  chief  of  the  Mftng 
family.    We  must  understand  that  Confucius  was  only  an  assistant  to  him,  or  perhaps  acted  for 

73] 


pmoLEGOMEKjL]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HI8  DISCIPLES.  [a* 

the  scheme,  and  said  to  the  opposite  party,  u  Our  two  princes  are 
met  for  a  pacific  object.  For  you  to  bring  a  band  of  savage  vassals 
to  disturb  the  meeting  with  their  weapons,  id  not  the  way  in  which 
Ts'e  can  expect  to  give  law  to  the  princes  of  the  empire.  These 
barbarians  have  nothing  to  do  with  our  Great  Flowery  land.  Such 
vassals  may  not  interfere  with  our  covenant.  Weapons  are  out  of 
place  at  such  a  meeting.  As  before  the  spirits,  such  conduct  is 
unpropitious.  In  point  of  virtue,  it  is  contrary  to  right.  As  betweea 
man  and  man,  it  is  not  polite."  The  duke  of  Ts'e  ordered  the  dis- 
turbers off,  but  Confucius  withdrew,  carrying  the  duke  of  Loo  witk 
him.  The  business  proceeded,  notwithstanding,  and  when  the  words 
of  the  alliance  were  being  read  on  the  part  of  Ts'e, — "  So  be  it  te 
Loo,  if  it  contribute  not  300  chariots  of  war  to  the  help  of  TVe, 
when  its  army  goes  across  its  borders,"  a  messenger  from  Confucius 
added, — "  And  so  be  it  to  us,  if  we  obey  your  orders,  unless  yoa 
return  to  us  the  fields  on  the  south  of  the  Win."  At  the  conclusion 
of  the  ceremonies,  the  prince  of  Ts'e  wanted  to  give  a  grand  entertain- 
ment, but  Confucius  demonstrated  that  such  a  thing  would  be  con- 
trary to  the  established  rules  of  propriety,  his  real  object  being  to 
keep  his  sovereign  out  of  danger.  In  this  way  the  two  parties 
separated,  they  of  Ts'e  filled  with  shame  at  being  foiled  and  disgraced 
by  uthe  man  of  ceremonies,"  and  the  result  was  that  the  lauds  oi 
Loo  which  had  been  appropriated  by  Ts'e  were  restored.12 

For  two  years  more  Confucius  held  the  office  of  minister  of  Crime, 
Some  have  supposed  that  he  was  further  raised  to  the  dignity  oi 
chief  minister  of  the  State,13  but  that  was  not  the  case.  One  instami 
of  the  manner  in  which  he  executed  his  functions  is  worth  recording 
When  any  matter  came  before  him,  he  took  the  opinion  of  differen 
individuals  upon  it,  and  in  giving  judgment  would  say,  "I  deciA 
according  to  the  view  of  so  and  so."  There  was  an  approach  to  oui 
jury  system  in  the  plan,  Confucius'  object  being  to  enlist  genera 
sympathy,  and  carry  the  public  judgment  with  him  in  his  admiuistra 
tion  of  justice.  A  father  having  brought  some  charge  against  bi 
son,  Confucius  kept  them  both  in  prison  for  three  months,  withou 

12  This  meeting  at  Kea-kuh  if  related  in  Sze-ma  Ts'een,  the  Family  Sayings,  and  Knh-k*^ 
with  many  exaggerntions.  I  have  followed  jtj£  J^  ^,  *fe  /fc  -f-  £fi.  13  The  ^c|j 
says,  Bkll.,^  ^  1$  #  f)  ^  ^  #1  $"  But  he  was  a  ;$  only  in  the  *n«  • 
an  assistant  of  ceremonies,  as  at  the  meeting  iu  Kea-kuh,  described  above. 

7^J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


',  t}  LIFE   OF   CONFUCIUS.  [prolkgomeka. 

making  any  difference  in  favour  of  the  father,  and  then  wished  to 
dismiss  them  both.     The  head  of  the  Ke  was  dissatisfied,  and  said, 
u  You  are  playing  with  me,  Sir  minister  of  Crime.     Formerly  you 
told  me  that  in  a  State  or  a  family  filial  duty  was  the  first  thing  to 
be  insisted  on.     What  hinders  you  now  from  putting  to  death  this 
unfilial  son  as  an  example  to  all  the  people?"     Confucius  with  a 
sigh  replied,  "  When  superiors  fail  in  their  duty,  and  yet  go  to  put 
their  inferiors  to  death,  it  is  not  right     This  father  has  not  taught 
his  son  to  be  filial ; — to  listen  to  his  charge  would  be  to  slay  the 
guiltless.     The  manners  of  the  age  have  been  long  in  a  sad  condi- 
tion ;  we  cannot  expect  the  people  not  to  be  transgressing  the  laws/*14 
At  this  time  two  of  his  disciples,  Tsze-loo  and  Tsze-yew,  entered 
the  employment  of  the  Ke  family,  and  lent  their  influence,  the  for- 
mer especially,  to  forward  the  plans  of  their  master.     One  great 
cause  of  disorder  in  the  State  was  the  fortified  cities  held  by  the 
three  chiefs,  in  which  they  could  defy  the  supreme  authority,  and 
were  in  turn  defied  themselves  by  their  officers.     Those  cities  were 
like  the  castles  of  the  barons  of  England  in  the  time  of  the  Norman 
tings.     Confucius  had  their  destruction  very  much  at  heart,  and 
partly  by  the  influence  of  persuasion,  and  partly  by  the  assisting 
counsels  of  Tsze-loo,  he  accomplished  his  object  in  regard  to  Pe,15  the 
chief  city  of  the  Ke,  and  How,16  the  chief  city  of  the  Shuh. 

It  does  not  appear  that  he  succeeded  in  the  same  way  in  disman- 
tling Shing,17  the  chief  city  of  the  Mang;18  but  his  authority  in  the 
State  greatly  increased.  "He  strengthened  the  ducal  House  and 
weakened  the  private  Families.  He  exalted  the  sovereign,  and 
depressed  the  ministers.  A  transforming  government  went  abroad. 
Dishonesty  and  dissoluteness  were  ashamed  and  hid  their  heads. 
Loyalty  and  good  faith  became  the  characteristics  of  the  men,  and 
chastity  and  docility  those  of  the  women.  Strangers  came  in  crowds 
from  other  States."19  Confucius  became  the  idol  of  the  people,  and 
flew  in  songs  through  their  mouths.20 

U  See  the  ^^,  BkIL  15  ^.  16  JqJJ.  17  JgJ£.        18  In  connection 

with  these  events,  the  Family  Sayings  and  Sze-ma  Ts'ecn  mention  the  summary  punishment 
inflicted  by  Confucius  on  an  able  but  unscrupulous  and  insidious  officer,  the  Shaou-ching,  Maou 
(-y  7p  J$P)'  ***8  jwdg111611*  an<l  death  occupy  a  conspicuous  place  in  the  legendary  accounts. 
Bui  the  Analects,  Tsze-sze,  Mencius,  and  Tso-k'ew  Ming  are  all  silent  about  it,  and  Kcang 
Yung  rightly  rejects  it,  as  one  of  the  many  narratives  invented  to  exalt  the  sage.  19  See  the 

^  =g£  Bk  II.  20  See  ^  ^  -^  quoted  by  Keang  Yung. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


raoLBGOMKHA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HI8  DISCIPLES.  [cn.t. 

But  this  sky  of  bright  promise  was  soon  overcast.  As  the  fame 
of  the  reformations  in  Loo  went  abroad,  the  neighbouring  princes 
began  to  be  afraid.  The  duke  of  Ts'e  said,  "  With  Confucius  at  the 
head  of  its  government,  Loo  will  become  supreme  among  the  States, 
and  Ts'e  which  is  nearest  to  it  will  be  the  first  swallowed  up.  Let 
us  propitiate  it  by  a  surrender  of  territory."  One  of  his  ministers 
proposed  they  should  first  try  to  separate  between  the  sage  and  his 
sovereign,  and  to  effect  this,  they  hit  upon  the  following  scheme. 
Eighty  beautiful  girls,  with  musical  and  dancing  accomplishments, 
were  selected,  and  a  hundred  and  twenty  of  the  finest  horses  that 
could  be  found,  and  sent  as  a  present  to  duke  Ting.  They  were  put 
up  at  first  outside  the  city,  and  Ke  Hwan  having  gone  in  disguise  to 
see  them,  forgot  the  lessons  of  Confucius,  and  took  the  duke  to  look 
at  the  bait.  They  were  both  captivated.  The  women  were  received, 
and  the  sage  was  neglected.  For  three  days  the  duke  gave  no 
audience  to  his  ministers.  "  Master,"  said  Tsze-loo  to  Confucius,  "it 
is  time  for  you  to  be  going."  But  Confucius  was  very  unwilling 
to  leave.  The  spring  was  coming  on,  when  the  great  sacrifice  to 
Heaven  would  be  offered,  and  he  determined  to  wait  and  see  whether 
the  solemnity  of  that  would  bring  the  duke  back  to  his  right  mind. 
No  such  result  followed.  The  ceremony  was  hurried  through,  and 
portions  of  the  offerings  were  not  sent  round  to  the  various  ministers, 
according  to  the  established  custom.  Confucius  regretfully  took 
his  departure,  going  away  slowly  and  by  easy  stages.21  He  would 
have  welcomed  a  messenger  of  recall.  The  duke  continued  in  his 
abandonment,  and  the  sage  went  forth  to  thirteen  weary  years  of 
homeless  wandering. 

8.  On  leaving  Loo,  Confucius  first  bent  his  steps  westward  to  the 

State  of  Wei,  situate  about  where  the  present  provinces  of  Chih-le 

and  Ho-nan  adjoin.     He  was  now  in  his  56th 

He  wander*  from  State  ,       .      ,  _ 

to  state.  year,  and  felt  depressed  and  melancholy.     As 

B.C.  496-483,  :  x      ,  *  .  .  Jm      .      , 

ne  went  along,  he  gave  expression  to  his  feel- 
ings in  verse : — 

"  Fain  would  I  still  look  towards  Loo, 
But  this  Kwei  hill  cuts  off  my  view. 
With  an  axe,  I'd  hew  the  thickets  through. : — 
Vain  thought !  'gainst  the  hill  I  nought  can  do  j" 

81  life  IE'  ?L  "F*  tit  %L>  P-  5'    S**  al8°  M^to8*  V.  Pt.  II.  i.  4;  et  a/. 
1    J 


iect.i.]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [proltoomema. 

and  again, — 

"  Through  the  valley  howls  the  blast, 

Drizzling  rain  fails  thick  and  fast. 

Homeward  goes  the  youthful  bride, 

0*er  the  wild,  crowds  by  her  side. 

How  is  it,  0  azure  Heaven, 

From  my  home  I  thus  am  driven, 

Through  the  land  my  way  to  trace, 

With  no  certain  dwelling-place  ? 

Dark,  dark,  the  minds  of  men ! 

Worth  in  vain  comes  to  their  ken. 

Hastens  on  my  term  of  years  ; 

Old  age,  desolate,  appears."1 
A  number  of  his  disciples  accompanied  him,  and  his  sadness  in- 
fected them.  When  they  arrived  at  the  borders  of  Wei,  at  a  place 
called  E,  the  warden  sought  an  interview,  and  on  coming  out  from 
the  sage,  he  tried  to  comfort  the  disciples,  saying,  "  My  friends,  why 
are  you  distressed  at  your  Master's  loss  of  office  ?  The  empire  has 
been  long  without  the  principles  of  truth  and  right;  Heaven  is 
going  to  use  your  master  as  a  bell  with  its  wooden  tongue."2  Such 
was  the  thought  of  this  friendly  stranger.  The  bell  did  indeed 
sound,  but  few  had  ears  to  hear. 

Confucius'  fame,  however,  had  gone  before  him,  and  he  was  in 
little  danger  of  having  to  suffer  from  want.  On  arriving  at  the  capital 
of  Wei,  he  lodged  at  first  with  a  worthy  officer,  named  Yen  Ch'ow- 
yew.8  The  reigning  duke,  known  to  us  by  the  epithet  of  Ling,4  was 
a  worthless,  dissipated  man,  but  he  could  not  neglect  a  visitor  of 
such  eminence,  and  soon  assigned  to  Confucius  a  revenue  of  60,000 
measures  of  grain.5  Here  he  remained  for  ten  months,  and  then  for 
some  reason  left  it  to  go  to  Ch'in.6  On  the  way  he  had  to  pass  by 
K'wang,7  a  place  probably  in  the  present  department  of  K'ae-fung 
in  Ho-nan,  which  had  formerly  suffered  from  Yang-hoo.  It  so  hap- 
pened that  Confucius  resembled  Hoo,  and  the  attention  of  the  people 
being  called  to  him  by  the  movements  of  his  carriage-driver,  they 
thought  it  was  their  old  enemy,  and  made  an  attack  upon  him.   His 

1  See  Keang  Yung's  Life  of  Confucius,  ^  ^  ffl  ^  3£.  2  Ana.  m.  xxiv. 

3  g|j  ijl  |^J.    Sec  Mencius,  V.  Pt.  I.  viii.  2.  4  g|  ^         5  Sec  the  j|l  |g, 

J  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


feoleoomkwa.]  C0NFUCIU8  AND   HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ch.t. 

followers  were  alarmed,  but  he  was  calm,  and  tried  to  assure  theia 
by  declaring  his  belief  that  he  had  a  divine  mission.  He  said  to 
them,  "  After  the  death  of  king  Win,  was  not  the  cause  of  truth 
lodged  here  in  me  ?  If  Heaven  had  wished  to  let  this  cause  of  truth 
perish,  then  I,  a  future  mortal,  should  not  have  got  such  a  relation 
to  that  cause.  While  Heaven  does  not  let  the  cause  of  truth  perish, 
what  can  the  people  of  K'wang  do  to  me  ?"8  Having  escaped  from 
the  hands  of  his  assailants,  he  does  not  seem  to  have  carried  out  his 
purpose  of  going  to  Ch'in,  but  returned  to  Wei. 

On  the  way,  he  passed  a  house  where  he  had  formerly  been  lodged, 
and  finding  that  the  master  was  dead,  and  the  funeral  ceremonies 
going  on,  he  went  in  to  condole  and  weep.  When  he  came  out, 
he  told  Tsze-kung  to  take  one  of  the  horses  from  his  carriage,  and 
give  it  as  a  contribution  to  the  expenses  of  the  occasion.  "  You  never 
did  such  a  thing,"  Tsze-kung  remonstrated,  "  at  the  funeral  of  any 
of  your  disciples ;  is  it  not  too  great  a  gift  on  this  occasion  of  the 
death  of  an  old  host  ?"  "  When  I  went  in,"  replied  Confucius,  "  my 
presence  brought  a  burst  of  grief  from  the  chief  mourner,  and  I 
joined  him  with  my  tears.  I  dislike  the  thought  of  my  tears  not 
being  followed  by  any  thing.     Do  it,  my  child."9 

On  reaching  Wei,  he  lodged  with  Keu  Pih-yuh,  an  officer  of  whom 

honourable  mention  is  made  in  the  Analects.10     But  this  time  he 

_     did  not  remain  long  in  the  State.     The  duke  was  married 

bjo,  495.  ° 

to  a  lady  of  the  house  of  Sung,  known  by  the  name  of 
Nan-tsze,  notorious  for  her  intrigues  and  wickedness.  She  sought 
an  interview  with  the  sage,  which  he  was  obliged  unwillingly  to 
accord.11  No  doubt  he  was  innocent  of  thought  or  act  of  evil, 
but  it  gave  great  dissatisfaction  to  Tsze-loo  that  his  master 
should  have  been  in  company  with  such  a  woman,  and  Con- 
fucius, to  assure  him,  swore  an  oath,  saying,  "  Wherein  I  have  done 
improperly,  may  Heaven  reject  me !  May  Heaven  reject  me  !"12  He 
could  not  well  abide,  however,  about  such  a  court.  One  day  the 
duke  rode  out  through  the  streets  of  his  capital  in  the  same  carriage 
with  Nan-tsze,  and  made  Confucius  follow  them  in  another.  Perhaps 

8  Ana.  IX.  v.    In  Ana.  XI.  xxii.,  there  is  another  reference  to  this  time,  in  which  Yen  Hwuy 

is  made  to  appear.  9  See  the  Le  Ke,  II.  Pt  I.  ii.  16.  10  Ana.  XIV.  xxri.;  XV.   vL 

11  See  the  account  in  the  j£l  gg,  !f\±  -^  Jj£  ^  p.  6.  12  Ana.  VL  xxvi. 

78] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


•8CT.  i.]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [paolbgohsva. 

he  intended  to  honour  the  philosopher,  but  the  people  saw  the  in- 
congruity, and  cried  out,  "Lust  in  the  front;  virtue  behind!" 
Confucius  was  ashamed,  and  made  the  observation,  "  I  have  not 
seen  one  who  loves  virtue  as  he  loves  beauty."18  Wei  was  no  place 
for  him.     He  left  it,  and  took  his  way  towards  Ch'in. 

Ch'in  which  formed  part  of  the  present  province  of  Ho-nan,  lay 
south  from  Wei.  After  passing  the  small  State  of  Ts'aou,14  he 
approached  the  borders  of  Sung,  occupying  the  present  prefecture 
of  Kwei-tih,  and  had  some  intentions  of  entering  it,  when  an  incident 
occurred,  which  it  is  not  easy  to  understand  from  the  meagre  style 
in  which  it  is  related,  but  which  gave  occasion  to  a  remarkable  say- 
ing. Confucius  was  practising  ceremonies  with  his  disciples,  we  are 
told,  under  the  shade  of  a  large  tree.  Hwan  T'uy,  an  ill-minded 
officer  of  Sung,  heard  of  it,  and  sent  a  band  of  men  to  pull  down  the 
tree,  and  kill  the  philosopher,  if  they  could  get  hold  of  him.  The  dis- 
ciples were  much  alarmed,  but  Confucius  observed,  "  Heaven  has  pro- 
duced the  virtue  that  is  in  me ; — what  can  Hwan  T'uy  do  to  me?"15 
They  all  made  their  escape,  but  seem  to  have  been  driven  westwards 
to  the  State  of  Ch'ing,16  on  arriving  at  the  gate  conducting  into  which 
from  the  east,  Confucius  found  himself  separated  from  his  followers. 
Tsze-kung  had  arrived  before  him,  and  was  told  by  a  native  of 
Ch'ing  that  there  was  a  man  standing  by  the  east  gate,  with  a  fore- 
head like  Yaou,  a  neck  like  Kaou-yaou,  his  shoulders  on  a  level 
with  those  of  Tsze-ch'an,  but  wanting,  below  the  waist,  three  inches 
of  the  height  of  Yu,  and  altogether  having  the  disconsolate  appear- 
ance of  a  stray  dog."  Tsze-kung  knew  it  was  the  master,  hastened 
to  him,  and  repeated  to  his  great  amusement  the  description  which 
the  man  had  given.     "The  bodily  appearance,"  said  Confucius,  "is 

hut  a  small  matter,  but  to  say  I  was  like  a  stray  do<* capital ! 

capital  !"17  The  stay  they  made  at  Ch'ing  was  short,  and  by  the  end 
of  b.c.  495,  Confucius  was  in  Ch'in. 

All  the  next  year  he  remained  there  lodging  with  the  warder  of  the 
city  wall,  an  officer  of  worth,  of  the  name  of  Ching,18  and  we  have 
no  accounts  of  him  which  deserve  to  be  related  here.19 

13  Ana.  IX.  xrii.  14"||f.  15  Ana.  IX.  xxii  16  |Sj.  17  See  the  rft  ^g, 

?L  %  lit  ^>  P  6-  18  "I  #£  jk  ~P-  ^  Mencius,  V.  Pt  I.  viii.  3.  19  Keang 

Yung  digests  in  this  place  two  foolish  stones,— about  a  large  bone  found  in  the  State  of  YuB,  and 
a  bird  which  appeared  in  Ch'in  and  died,  shot  through  with  a  remarkable  arrow.  Confucius 
knew  all  about  them. 

J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


noLEOOKBXA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DI8CIPLES.  »t. 

In  B.C.  493,  Ch'in  was  much  disturbed  by  attacks  from  Woo,80  a 
large  State,  the  capital  of  which  was  in  the  present  department  of 
Soo-chow,  and  Confucius  determined  to  retrace  his  steps  to  Wei. 
On  the  way  he  was  laid  hold  of  at  a  place  called  P'oo,21  which  was 
held  by  a  rebellious  officer  against  Wei,  and  before  he  could  get 
away,  he  was  obliged  to  engage  that  he  would  not  proceed  thither. 
Thither,  notwithstanding,  he  continued  his  route,  and  when  Tsze- 
kung  asked  him  whether  it  was  right  to  violate  the  oath  be  had 
taken,  he  replied,  "  It  was  a  forced  oath.  The  spirits  do  not  hear 
such."22  The  duke  Ling  received  him  with  distinction,  but  paid  no 
more  attention  to  his  lessons  than  before,  and  Confucius  is  said  then 
to  have  uttered  his  complaint,  "  If  there  were  any  of  the  priuces  who 
would  employ  me,  in  the  course  of  twelve  months  I  should  have 
done  something  considerable.  In  three  years  the  government  would 
be  perfected."23 

A  circumstance  occurred  to  direct  his  attention  to  the  State  of 
Tsin,24  which  occupied  the  southern  part  of  the  present  Shan-se, 
and  extended  over  the  Yellow  river  into  Ho-nan.  An  invitation 
came  to  Confucius,  like  that  which  he  had  formerly  received  from 
Kung-shan  Fuh-jaou.  Peih  Heih,  an  officer  of  Tsin,  who  was  hold- 
ing the  town  of  Chung-mow  against  his  chief,  invited  him  to  visit 
him,  and  Confucius  was  inclined  to  go.  Tsze-loo  was  always  the 
mentor  on  such  occasions.  He  said  to  him,  "Master,  I  have 
heard  you  say,  that  when  a  man  in  his  own  person  is  guilty  of  do- 
ing evil,  a  superior  man  will  not  associate  with  him.  Peih  Heih  is 
in  rebellion ;  if  you  go  to  him,  what  shall  be  said  ?  "  Confucius  replied, 
44  Yes,  I  did  use  those  words.  But  is  it  not  said  that  if  a  thing  be 
really  hard,  it  may  be  ground  without  being  made  thin  ;  and  if  it 
be  really  white,  it  may  be  steeped  in  a  dark  fluid  without  being  made 
black  ?  Am  I  a  bitter  gourd  ?  Am  I  to  be  hung  up  out  of  the  way 
of  being  eaten  ?  "25 

These  sentiments  sound  strangely  from  his  lips.  After  all,  he  did 
not  go  to  Peih  Heih ;  and  having  travelled  as  far  as  the  Yellow 
river  that  he  might  sec  one  of  the  principal  ministers  of  Tsin,  he 
heard  of  the  violent  death  of  two  men  of  worth,  and  returned  to 

20  JJ^.  21  ^.  22.  Tliis  is  related  by  Sze-ma  Tsceen,  -JL  -Jr  {{£  ^,  P.  7,  and 

also  in  the  Family  Sayings.    I  would  fain  believe  it  is  not  true.    The  wonder  is,  that  no  Chinese 
critic  should  have  set  about  disproving  it.       23.  Ana.  XII.  x.       24  ?f\        25  Ana.  XVII.  vil 


80] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


«ct.i.]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [i*OLBGO*nuu 

Wei,  lamenting  the  fate  which  prevented  him  from  crossing  the 
stream,  and  trying  to  solace  himself  with  poetry  as  he  had  done  on 
leaving  Loo.  Again  did  he  communicate  with  the  duke,  but  as  inef- 
fectually, and  disgusted  at  being  questioned  by  him  about  military 
tactics,  he  left  and  went  back  to  Ch'in. 

He  resided  in  Ch'in  all  the  next  year,  B.C.  491,.  without  any- 
thing occurring  there  which  is  worthy  of  note.26  Events  had 
transpired  in  Loo,  however,  which  were  to  issue  in  his  return  to  his 
native  State.  The  duke  Ting  had  deceased  B.C.  494,  and  Ke  Hwan, 
the  chief  of  the  Ke  family,  died  in  this  year.  On  his  deathbed,  he 
felt  remorse  for  his  conduct  to  Confucius,  and  charged  his  successor, 
known  to  us  in  the  Analects  as  Ke  K'ang,  to  recall  the  sage ;  but  the 
charge  was  not  immediately  fulfilled.  Ke  K'ang,  by  the  advice  of 
one  of  his  officers,  sent  to  Ch'in  for  the  disciple  Yen  K'ew  instead. 
Confucius  willingly  sent  him  off,  and  would  gladly  have  accompanied 
him.  "  Let  me  return !"  he  said,  "  Let  me  return  l"27  But  that  was 
not  to  be  for  several  years  yet 

In  B.C.  490,  accompanied,  as  usual,  by  several  of  his  disciples,  he 
went  from  Ch'in  to  Ts'ae,  a  small  dependency  of  the  great  fief  of 
Ts'oo,  which  occupied  a  large  part  of  the  present  provinces  of  Hoo- 
nan  and  Hoo-pih.  On  the  way,  between  Ch'in  and  Ts'ae,  their 
provisions  became  exhausted,  and  they  were  cut  off  somehow  from 
obtaining  a  fresh  supply.  The  disciples  were  quite  overcome  with 
want,  and  Tsze-loo  said  to  the  master,  "Has  the  superior  man  in- 
deed to  endure  in  this  way  ?  "  Confucius  answered  him,  "  The 
superior  man  may  indeed  have  to  endure  want ;  but  the  mean  man, 
when  he  is  in  want,  gives  way  to  unbridled  license."28  According 
to  the  "  Family  Sayings,"  the  distress  continued  seven  days,  during 
which  time  Confucius  retained  his  equanimity,  and  was  even  cheerful, 
playing  on  his  lute  and  singing.29  He  retained,  however,  a  strong 
impression  of  the  perils  of  the  season,  and  we  find  him  afterwards 
recurring  to  it,  and  lamenting  that  of  the  friends  that  were  with  him 
in  Ch'in  and  Ts'ae,  there  were  none  remaining  to  enter  his  door.80 

Escaped  from  this  strait,  he  remained  in  Ts'ae  over  B.C.  489, 
and  in  the  following  year  we  find  him  in  She,  another  district  of 

2$  Tio-kVw  Ming,  indeed,  relates  a  story  of  Confucius,  on  the  report  of  a  fire  in  Loo,  telling 
vbose  sncestral  temple  had  been  destroyed  by  it.  27  Ana,  V.  xxi.  28  Ana.  XV.  i.  2,  3. 

J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


FfcOLBOOMttu.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  |CH.t. 

Ts'oo,  the  chief  of  which  had  usurped  the  title  of  duke.  Puzzled 
about  his  visitor,  he  asked  Tsze-loo  what  he  should  think  of  him, 
but  the  disciple  did  not  venture  a  reply.  When  Confucius  heard 
of  it,  he  said  to  Tsze-loo,  "  Why  did  you  not  say  to  him, — He  is 
simply  a  man  who  in  his  eager  pursuit  of  knowledge  forgets  his 
food,  who  in  the  joy  of  its  attainment  forgets  his  sorrows,  and  who 
does  not  perceive  that  old  age  is  coming  on?'*81  Subsequently,  the 
duke,  in  conversation  with  Confucius,  asked  him  about  govern- 
ment, and  got  the  reply,  dictated  by  some  circumstances  of  which 
we  are  ignorant,  "  Good  government  obtains,  when  those  who  are 
near  are  made  happy,  and  those  who  are  far  off  are  attracted."83 

After  a  short  stay  in  She,  according  to  Sze-ma  Ts'een,  he  return- 
ed to  Ts'ae,  and  having  to  cross  a  river,  he  sent  Tsze-loo  to  inquire 
for  the  ford  of  two  men  who  were  at  work  in  a  neighbouring  field. 
They  were  recluses, — men  who  had  withdrawn  from  public  life  in 
disgust  at  the  waywardness  of  the  times.  One  of  them  was  called 
Ch'ang-tseu,  and  instead  of  giving  Tsze-loo  the  information  he  want- 
ed, he  asked  him,  "  Who  is  it  that  holds  the  reins  in  the  carriage 
there  ?"  "  It  is  K'ung  Kew."  "  K'ung  Kew  of  Loo  ?"  "  Yes,"  was 
the  reply,  and  then  the  man  rejoined,  "He  knows  the  ford." 

Tsze-loo  applied  to  the  other,  who  was  called  Kee-neih,  but  got 
for  answer  the  question,  "  Who  are  you,  Sir  ?"  He  replied,  "  I  am 
Chung  Yew."  "  Chung  Yew,  who  is  the  disciple  of  K'ung  Kew  of 
Loo  ?"  "  Yes,"  again  replied  Tsze-loo,  and  Kee-neih  addressed  him, 
"Disorder,  like  a  swelling  flood,  spreads  over  the  whole  empire, 
and  who  is  he  that  will  change  it  for  you?  Than  follow  one  who 
merely  withdraws  from  this  one  and  that  one,  had  you  not  better 
follow  those  who  withdraw  from  the  world  altogether?"  With 
this  he  fell  to  covering  up  the  seed,  and  gave  no  more  heed  to  the 
stranger.  Tsze-loo  went  back  and  reported  what  they  had  said, 
when  Confucius  vindicated  his  own  course,  saying,  "  It  is  impossible 
to  associate  with  birds  and  beasts  as  if  they  were  the  same  with  us. 
If  I  associate  not  with  these  people, — with  mankind, — with  whom 
shall  I  associate?  If  right  principles  prevailed  through  the  empire, 
there  would  be  no  use  for  me  to  change  its  state."88 

About  the  same  time  he  had  an  encounter  with  another  recluse, 
who  was  known  as  "  The  madman  of  Ts'oo."     He  passed  by  the 

31  Ana.  VII.  xviii.  32  Ana.  XULL  xvi.  33  Ana.  XVUL  *i 


l]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [peouwowuu, 

carriage  of  Confucius,  singing  out  "  0  Fung,  0  Fung,  how  is  your 
virtue  degenerated!  As  to  the  past,  reproof  is  useless,  but  the 
future  may  be  provided  against.  Give  up,  give  up  your  vain  pur- 
suit" Confucius  alighted  and  wished  to  enter  into  conversation 
with  him,  but  the  man  hastened  away.34 

But  now  the  attention  of  the  ruler  of  Ts'oo — king,  as  he  styled 
himself — was  directed  to  the  illustrious  stranger  who  was  in  his 
dominions,  and  he  met  Confucius  and  conducted  him  to  his  capital, 
which  was  in  the  present  district  of  E-shing,  in  the  department  of 
Seang-yang,83  in  Hoo-pih.  After  a  time,  he  proposed  endowing  the 
philosopher  with  a  considerable  territory,  but  was  dissuaded  by  his 
prime  minister,  who  said  to  him,  "  Has  your  majesty  any  officer 
who  could  discharge  the  duties  of  an  ambassador  like  Tsze-kung  ?  or 
any  one  so  qualified  for  a  premier  as  Yen  Hwuy?  or  any  one  to 
compare  as  a  general  with  Tsze-loo?  The  kings  Wan  and  Woo, 
from  their  hereditary  dominions  of  a  hundred  fe,  rose  to  the  sove- 
reignty of  the  empire.  If  K'ung  K'ew,  with  such  disciples  to  be  his 
ministers,  get  the  possession  of  any  territory,  it  will  not  be  to  the 
prosperity  of  Ts'oo?36  On  this  remonstrance  the  king  gave  up  his 
purpose,  and  when  he  died  in  the  same  year,  Confucius  left  the 
State,  and  went  back  again  to  Wei. 
The  duke  Ling  had  died  four  years  before,  soon  after  Confucius 
bxj.  «9.  had  last  parted  from  him,  and  the  reigning  duke,  known 
to  us  by  the  title  of  Ch4uh,37  was  his  grandson,  and  was  holding  the 
principality  against  his  own  father.  The  relations  between  them 
were  rather  complicated.  The  father  had  been  driven  out  in 
consequence  of  an  attempt  which  he  had  instigated  on  the  life  of  his 
mother,  the  notorious  Nan-tsze,  and  the  succession  was  given  to  his 
son.  Subsequently,  the  father  wanted  to  reclaim  what  he  deemed 
his  right,  and  an  unseemly  struggle  ensued.  The  duke  Ch'uh  was 
conscious  how  much  his  cause  would  be  strengthened  by  the  support 
of  Confucius,  and  hence  when  he  got  to  Wei,  Tsze-loo  could  say  to 
him,  "  The  prince  of  Wei  has  been  waiting  for  you,  in  order  with 
you  to  administer  the  government; — what  will  you  consider  the 
first  thing  to  be  done?"88   The  opinion  of  the  philosopher,  however, 

UAk.XW.t.  35^^r^t:^l^.  86  See  the  £  |g,  ft  ^  flfc 

8£,  p.  10.  37  HI  /^.  88  Ana.  XIII.  iii.    In  the  notes  on  this  pannage,  I  have  given 

Choo  He's  opinion  as  to  the  time  when  Ts'ze-loo  made  this  remark.   It  seems  more  correct,  how- 
ctct,  to  refer  it  to  Confucius'  return  to  Wei  from  Ts'oo,  as  is  done  by  Kcang  Yung. 

"»  Digitized  by  G00gle 


CONFUCIUS  AHD  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [cii.r. 

was  against  the  propriety  of  the  duke's  course,89  and  he  declined 
taking  office  with  him,  though  he  remained  in  Wei  for  between  five 
and  six  years.  During  all  that  time  there  is  a  blank  in  his  history. 
In  the  very  year  of  his  return,  according  to  the  "Annals  of  the 
Empire,"  his  most  beloved  disciple,  Yen  Hwuy  died,  on  which 
occasion  he  exclaimed,  "  Alas  I  Heaven  is  destroying  me !  Heaven 
is  destroying  me  I"40  The  death  of  his  wife  is  assigned  to  B.C.  484, 
but  nothing  else  is  related  which  we  can  connect  with  this  long 
period. 

9.  His  return  to  Loo  was  brought  about  by  the  disciple  Yen  Yew, 

who,  we  have  seen,  went  into  the  service  of  Ke  K'ang,  in  B.C.  491. 

In  the  year  B.C.  483,  Yew  had  the  conduct  of 

From  his  return  to  Loo  J  .-.  .  m  .  , 

to  his  death.  some  military  operations   against   Is'e,    and 

being  successful,  Ke  K'ang  asked  him  how  he 
had  obtained  his  military  skill; — was  it  from  nature,  or  by  learning? 
He  replied  that  he  had  learned  it  from  Confucius,  and  entered  into 
a  glowing  eulogy  of  the  philosopher.  The  chief  declared  that  he 
would  bring  Confucius  home  again  to  Loo.  "  If  you  do  so,"  said  the 
disciple,  "  see  that  you  do  not  let  mean  men  come  between  you  and 
him."  On  this  K'ang  sent  three  officers  with  appropriate  presents 
to  Wei,  to  invite  the  wanderer  home,  and  he  returned  with  them 
accordingly.1 

This  event  took  place  in  the  11th  year  of  the  duke  Gae,2  who 
succeeded  to  Ting,  and  according  to  K'ung  Foo,  Confucius'  descen- 
dant, the  invitation  proceeded  from  him.8  We  may  suppose  that  while 
Ke  K'ang  was  the  mover  and  director  of  the  proceeding,  it  was  with 
the  authority  and  approval  of  the  duke.  It  is  represented  in  the 
chronicle  of  Tso-k'ew  Ming  as  having  occurred  at  a  very  opportune 
time.  The  philosopher  had  been  consulted  a  little  before  by  Khmg 
WSn,4  an  officer  of  Wei,  about  how  he  should  conduct  a  feud  with 
another  officer,  and  disgusted  at  being  referred  to  on  such  a  subject, 
had  ordered  his  carriage  and  prepared  to  leave  the  State,  exclaiming, 
"  The  bird  chooses  its  tree.  The  tree  does  not  chase  the  bird."  K'ung 
Win  endeavoured  to  excuse  himself,  and  to  prevail  on  Confucius 

89  Ana.  VII.  xiv.  40  Ana.  XI.  viii.    In  the  notes  on  Ana.  XI.  vii.  I  have  adverted  to  the 

chronological  difficulty  connected  with  the  dates  assigned  respectively  to  the  deaths  of  Ten  Hwuy 
and  Confucius'  own  son,  Le.    Keang  Yung  assigns  Hwuy's  death  to  b.c.  481. 

1  See  the  J&  |g,  ^  -^  Jf£  Jj§£.  2  ^  jfe>.  8  See  Keang  Tung's  memoir, 

<»  fa.  *  ^  j)£  "^jr>  tne  N"06  wno  *•  mentioned  in  the  Analects,  V.  xiv. 

84] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


•.i.]  LttE  OF  COKF0CIU8-  [raoLiooitMiA. 

to  remain  in  Wei,  and  just  at  this  juncture  the  messengers  from 
Loo  arrived.6 

Confucius  was  now  in  his  69th  year.  The  world  had  not  dealt 
kindly  with  him.  In  every  State  which  he  had  visited  he  had  met 
with  disappointment  and  sorrow.  Only  five  more  years  remained 
to  him,  nor  were  they  of  a  brighter  character  than  the  past.  He 
had,  indeed,  attained  to  that  state,  he  tells  us,  in  which  "  he  could 
follow  what  his  heart  desired  without  transgressing  what  was 
right,"6  but  other  people  were  not  more  inclined  than  they  had  been 
to  abide  by  his  counsels.  The  duke  Gae  and  Ke  K'ang  often  con* 
versed  with  him,  but  he  no  longer  had  weight  in  the  guidance  of  State 
affairs,  and  wisely  addressed  himself  to  the  completion  of  his  literary 
labours.  He  wrote  a  preface  to  the  Shoo-king ;  careftilly  digested 
the  rites  and  ceremonies  determined  by  the  wisdom  of  the  more 
ancient  ages  and  kings ;  collected  and  arranged  the  ancient  poetry ; 
and  undertook  the  reform  of  music.7  He  has  told  us  himself,  "  I 
returned  from  Wei  to  Loo,  and  then  the  music  was  reformed,  and 
the  pieces  in  the  Imperial  Songs  and  Praise  Songs  found  all  their 
proper  place."8  To  the  Yih-king  he  devoted  much  study,  and  Sze-ma 
Ts'een  says  that  the  leather  thongs  by  which  the  tablets  of  his  copy 
were  bound  together  were  thrice  worn  out.  "  If  some  years  were 
added  to  my  life,"  he  said,  "  I  would  give  fifty  to  the  study  of  the 
Yih,  and  then  I  might  come  to  be  without  great  faults."9  During 
this  time  also,  we  may  suppose  that  he  supplied  Ts&ng  Sin  with  the 
materials  of  the  classic  of  Filial  Piety.  The  same  year  that  he  re- 
turned, Ke  K'ang  sent  Yen  Yew  to  ask  his  opinion  about  an  additional 
impost  which  he  wished  to  lay  upon  the  people,  but  Confucius  re- 
fused to  give  any  reply,  telling  the  disciple  privately  his  disapproval 
of  the  proposed  measure.  It  was  carried  out,  however,  in  the  fol- 
lowing year,  by  the  agency  of  Yen,  on  which  occasion,  I  suppose,  it 
was  that  Confucius  said  to  the  other  disciples,  "  He  is  no  disciple  of 
mine ;  my  little  children,  beat  the  drum  and  assail  him."10  The  year 
B.C.  482  was  marked  by  the  death  of  his  son  Le,  which  he  seems  to 
have  borne  with  more  equanimity  than  he  did  that  of  his  disciple 
Yen  Hwuy,  which  some  writers  assign  to  the  following  year,  though 
I  have  already  mentioned  it  under  the  year  B.C.  488. 

5  8ee  the  ^  ^J,  ]g  ^  -J-  — •  4|i.  6  Ana.  II.  iv.  6.  7  See  the  ^  |g, 

^  -^  ^  ^t>  P.  12.  8  Ana.  IX.  xiy.  9  Ana.  Vn.  xri.  10  Ana.  XI.  xri. 

851  Digitized  by  G00gk 


*aouoonnu.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [a.% 

In  the  spring  of  B.C.  480,  a  servant  of  Ke  K'ang  caught  a  k*e-lii 
on  a  hunting  excursion  of  the  duke  in  the  present  district  of  Keat 
ts'eang.11  No  person  could  tell  what  strange  animal  it  was,  and 
Confucius  was  called  to  look  at  it  He  at  once  knew  il  to  be  a  /in, 
and  the  legend-writers  say  that  it  bore  on  one  of  its  horns  the  piece 
of  ribbon,  which  his  mother  had  attached  to  the  one  that  appeared 
to  her  before  his  birth.  According  to  the  chronicle  of  Kung-yan$ 
he  was  profoundly  affected  He  cried  out,  "  For  whom  have  you 
come?  For  whom  have  you  come?"  His  tears  flowed  freely,  and 
he  added,  "  The  course  of  my  doctrines  is  run."12 

Notwithstanding  the  appearance  of  the  lin,  the  life  of  Confucita 
was  still  protracted  for  two  years  longer,  though  he  took  occasioa 
to  terminate  with  that  event  his  history  of  the  Ts*un  Ts'ew.  Tha 
Work  according  to  Sze-ma  Ts'een  was  altogether  the  production  of 
this  year,  but  we  need  not  suppose  that  it  was  so.  In  it,  from  tbe 
standpoint  of  Loo,  he  briefly  indicates  the  principal  events  occur- 
ring throughout  the  empire,  every  term  being  expressive,  it  is  said, 
of  the  true  character  of  the  actors  and  events  described.  Confuciu* 
said  himself,  "  It  is  the  Spring  and  Autumn  which  will  make  men 
know  me,  and  it  is  the  Spring  and  Autumn  which  will  make  men 
condemn  me."18  Mencius  makes  the  composition  of  it  to  have  been 
an  achievement  as  great  as  Yu's  regulation  of  the  waters  of  the 
deluge. — "Confucius  completed  the  Spring  and  Autumn,  and  re- 
bellious ministers  and  villainous  sons  were  struck  with  terror."14 

Towards  the  end  of  this  year,  word  came  to  Loo  that  the  duke 
of  Ts'e  had  been  murdered  by  one  of  his  officers.  Confucius  was 
moved  with  indignation.  Such  an  outrage,  he  felt,  called  for  hi* 
solemn  interference.  He  bathed,  went  to  court,  and  represented 
the  matter  to  the  duke,  saying,  "  Chin  Hang  has  slain  his  sovereign, 
I  beg  that  you  will  undertake  to  punish  him."  The  duke  pleaded 
his  incapacity,  urging  that  Loo  was  weak  compared  with  Ts'e,  but 
Confucius  replied,  u  One  half  the  people  of  Ts'e  are  not  consenting 
to  the  deed.  If  you  add  to  the  people  of  Loo  one  half  the  people 
of  Ts'e,  you  are  sure  to  overcome."  But  he  could  not  infuse  his 
spirit  into  the  duke,  who  told  him  to  go  and  lay  the  matter  before 
the  chiefs  of  the  three  Families.  Sorely  against  his  sense  of  propriety, 

Kung-yang,  however,  the  lin  was  found  by  some  wood-gatherers.        ,3  Mencius  III.  Pt.  IL  ix.* 
14  Men,  I1L  Pt  II.  ix.il. 

86] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


tot.i-]  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  tnoiMontsk. 

ie  did  so,  but  they  would  not  act,  and  he  withdrew  with  the 
mark,  "  Following  in  the  rear  of  the  great  officers,  1  did  not  dare 
lot  to  represent  such  a  matter."15 

In  the  year  B.C.  479,  Confucius  had  to  mourn  the  death  of  another 
)f  his  disciples,  one  of  those  who  had  been  longest  with  him, — 
ihe  well-known  Tsze-loo.  He  stands  out  a  sort  of  Peter  in  the 
Confucian  school,  a  man  of  impulse,  prompt  to  speak  and  prompt 
to  act.  He  gets  many  a  check  from  the  master,  but  there  is 
jvidently  a  strong  sympathy  between  them.  Tsze-loo  uses  a 
freedom  with  him  on  which  none  of  the  other  disciples  dares  to 
venture,  and  there  is  not  one  among  them  all,  for  whom,  if  I  may 
ipeak  from  my  own  feeling,  the  foreign  student  comes  to  form 
mch  a  liking.  A  pleasant  picture  is  presented  to  us  in  one  passage 
rf  the  Analects.  It  is  said,  "The  disciple  Min  was  standing  by  his 
side,  looking  bland  and  precise ;  Tsze-loo  (named  Yew),  looking  bold 
and  soldierly ;  Yen  Yew  and  Tsze-kung,  with  a  free  and  straightfor- 
ward manner.  The  master  was  pleased,  but  he  observed,  'Yew 
there ! — he  will  not  die  a  natural  death.'  "16 

This  prediction  was  verified.  When  Confucius  returned  to  Loo 
from  Wei,  he  left  Tsze-loo  and  Tsze-kaou17  engaged  there  in  official 
service.  Troubles  arose.  News  came  to  Loo,  B.C.  479,  that  a  revolu- 
tion was  in  progress  in  Wei,  and  when  Confucius  heard  it,  he  said, 
"Ch'ae  will  come  here,  but  Yew  will  die."18  So  it  turned  out. 
When  Tsze-kaou  saw  that  matters  were  desperate  he  made  his  escape, 
but  Tsze-loo  would  not  forsake  the  chief  who  had  treated  him  well. 
He  threw  himself  into  the  melee,  and  was  slain.  Confucius  wept  sore 
for  him,  but  his  own  death  was  not  far  off.  It  took  place  on  the 
11th  day  of  the  4th  month  in  the  following  year,  B.C.  478. l9 

Early  one  morning,  we  are  told,  he  got  up,  and  with  his  hands 
behind  his  back,  dragging  his  staff,  he  moved  about  by  his  door, 
crooning  over, — 

"  The  great  mountain  must  crumble ; 
The  strong  beam  must  break ; 
And  the  wise  man  wither  away  like  a  plant." 

15  See  the  -fa  fa,  l£  £  -|-  |/E|  ^,  and  Analects,  XIV.  xxii.  16  Ana.  XI.  xii. 

17  -^  ^¥-1,  by  surname  Kaou  (jgj),  and  name  Ch'ae  (^j£).  18  See  the  Hh  >AJL 

%$t\3L&$»  19  S^4116^  ^^^+^T^,  and  Keang  Yung's  Life 

of  Confucius,  m  he. 

-"  '  Digitized  by  G00gle 


PWHJWOH**!.]  C0NFUCIU8  AND   HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ca.iu 

After  a  little,  he  entered  the  house  and  sat  down  opposite  the  door. 
Tsze-kung  had  heard  his  words,  and  said  to  himself,  "  If  the  great 
mountain  crumble,  to  what  shall  I  look  up?  If  the  strong  beam 
break,  and  the  wise  man  wither  away,  on  whom  shall  I  lean  ?  The 
master,  I  fear,  is  going  to  be  ill."  With  this  he  hastened  into  the  house. 
Confucius  said  to  him,  "Ts'ze,  what  makes  you  so  late?  According 
to  the  statutes  of  Hea,  the  corpse  was  dressed  and  coffined  at  the  top 
of  the  eastern  steps,  treating  the  dead  as  if  he  were  still  the  host 
Under  the  Yin,  the  ceremony  was  performed  between  the  two  pillars, 
as  if  the  dead  were  both  host  and  guest  The  rule  of  Chow  is  to 
perform  it  at  the  top  of  the  western  steps,  treating  the  dead  as  if  he 
were  a  guest.  I  am  a  man  of  Yin,  and  last  night  I  dreamt  that  I 
was  sitting  with  offerings  before  me  between  the  two  pillars.  No 
intelligent  monarch  arises ;  there  is  not  one  in  the  empire  that  will 
make  me  his  master.  My  time  has  come  to  die/'  So  it  was.  He 
went  to  his  couch,  and  after  seven  days  expired.20 

Such  is  the  account  which  we  have  of  the  last  hours  of  the  great 
philosopher  of  China.  His  end  was  not  unimpressive,  but  it  was 
melancholy.  He  sank  behind  a  cloud.  Disappointed  hopes  made 
his  soul  bitter.  The  great  ones  of  the  empire  had  not  received  his 
teachings.  No  wife  nor  child  was  by  to  do  the  kindly  offices  of 
affection  for  him.  Nor  were  the  expectations  of  another  life  pre- 
sent with  him  as  he  passed  through  the  dark  valley.  He  uttered 
no  prayer,  and  he  betrayed  no  apprehensions.  Deep-treasured  in 
his  own  heart  may  have  been  the  thought  that  he  had  endeavoured 
to  serve  his  generation  by  the  will  of  God,  but  he  gave  no  sign. 
"  The  mountain  falling  came  to  nought,  and  the  rock  was  removed 
out  of  his  place.  So  death  prevailed  against  him  and  he  passed; 
his  countenance  was  changed,  and  he  was  sent  away." 

10.  I  flatter  myself  that  the  preceding  paragraphs  contain  a  more 
correct  narrative  of  the  principal  incidents  in  the  life  of  Confucius 
than  has  yet  been  given  in  any  European  language.  They  might 
easily  have  been  expanded  into  a  volume,  but  I  did  not  wish  to  ex- 
haust the  subject,  but  only  to  furnish  a  sketch,  which,  while  it  might 
satisfy  the  general  reader,  would  be  of  special  assistance  to  the  care- 
ful student  of  the  classical  Books.  I  had  taken  many  notes  of  the 
manifest  errors  in  regard  to  chronology  and  other  matters  in  the 


20  SeetheLeKe,II.Pt.I.ii.20. 
88] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


I  LIFE  OF  CONFUCIUS.  [pbolbgommta. 

"Family  Sayings,"  and  the  chapter  of  Sze-ma  Ts'een  on  the  K'ung 
family,  when  the  digest  of  Keang  Yung,  to  which  I  have  made 
frequent  reference,  attracted  my  attention.  Conclusions  to  which  I 
had  come  were  confirmed,  and  a  clue  was  furnished  to  difficulties 
which  I  was  seeking  to  disentangle.  I  take  the  opportunity  to 
acknowledge  here  my  obligations  to  it.  With  a  few  notices  of  Con- 
fucius' habits  and  manners,  I  shall  conclude  this  section. 

Very  little  can  be  gathered  from  reliable  sources  on  the  personal 
appearance  of  the  sage.  The  height  of  his  father  is  stated,  as  I  have 
noted,  to  have  been  ten  feet,  and  though  Confucius  came  short 
of  this  by  four  inches,  he  was  often  called  "  the  tall  man."  It  k 
allowed  that  the  ancient  foot  or  cubit  was  shorter  than  the  modern, 
but  it  must  be  reduced  more  than  any  scholar  I  have  consulted  has 
yet  done,  to  bring  this  statement  within  the  range  of  credibility. 
The  legends  assign  to  his  figure  "  nine-and-forty  remarkable  peculiari- 
ties,"! a  tenth  part  of  which  would  have  made  him  more  a  monster 
than  a  man.  Dr  Morrison  says  that  the  images  of  him,  which  he 
had  seen  in  the  northern  parts  of  China,  represent  him  as  of  a  dark 
swarthy  colour.2  It  is  not  so  with  those  common  in  the  south. 
He  was,  no  doubt,  in  size  and  complexion  much  the  same  as  many 
of  his  descendants  in  the  present  day. 

But  if  his  disciples  had  nothing  to  chronicle  of  his  personal  ap- 
pearance, they  have  gone  very  minutely  into  an  account  of  many  of 
bis  habits.  The  tenth  book  of  the  Analects  is  all  occupied  with  his 
deportment,  his  eating,  and  his  dress.  In  public,  whether  in  the 
village,  the  temple,  or  the  court,  he  was  the  man  of  rule  and  cere- 
mony, but  "  at  home  he  was  not  formal."  Yet  if  not  formal,  he 
was  particular.  In  bed  even  he  did  not  forget  himself; — "  he  did 
not  lie  like  a  corpse,"  and  "  he  did  not  speak."  "  He  required  his 
sleeping  dress  to  be  half  as  long  again  as  his  body."  "  If  he  happen- 
ed to  be  sick,  and  the  prince  came  to  visit  him,  he  had  his  face  to 
the  east,  made  his  court  robes  be  put  over  him,  and  drew  his  girdle 
across  them." 

He  was  nice  in  his  diet, — "not  disliking  to  have  his  rice  dressed 
fine,  nor  to  have  his  minced  meat  cut  small."     "  Anything  at  all 

1  29  "P  it  ^Z'  2  Chinese  and  English  Dictionary,  char.  Ufa.    Sir  John  Davis  also 

mentions  seeing  a  figure  of  Confucius,  in  a  temple  near  the  Po-vang  lake,  of  which  the  complexion 
was* quite  black.'    (The  Chinese,  voi  1L  p.  66). 

89J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


C0KTUCTU8  AHD  HIS  DISCIPLES*  {cs.« 

gone  he  would  not  touch."  "  He  must  have  his  meat  cut  property, 
and  to  every  kind  its  proper  sauce ;  but  he  was  not  a  great  eater  * 
"  It  was  only  in  wine  that  he  laid  down  no  limit  to  himself,  but  1* 
did  not  allow  himself  to  be  confused  by  it"  "When  the  villagers 
were  drinking  together,  on  those  who  carried  staves  going  out,  hi 
went  out  immediately  after."  There  must  always  be  ginger  at  tha 
table,  and  "when  eating,  he  did  not  converse."  "Although  his 
food  might  be  coarse  rice  and  poor  soup,  he  would  offer  a  little  of  U 
in  sacrifice,  with  a  grave  respectful  air." 

"  On  occasion  of  a  sudden  clap  of  thunder,  or  a  violent  wind,  hi 
would  change  countenance.  He  would  do  the  same,  and  rise  uf 
moreover,  when  he  found  himself  a  guest  at  a  loaded  board*"  "  At 
the  sight  of  a  person  in  mourning,  he  would  also  change  countenance, 
and  if  he  happened  to  be  in  his  carriage,  he  would  bend  forward 
with  a  respectful  salutation."  "  His  general  way  in  his  carriage  mi 
not  to  turn  his  head  round,  nor  talk  hastily,  nor  point  with  hii 
hands."  He  was  charitable.  "  When  any  of  his  friends  died,  if  the* 
were  no  relations  who  could  be  depended  on  for  the  necessary  offices, 
be  would  say,  *  I  will  bury  him.' " 

The  disciples  were  so  careful  to  record  these  and  other  character- 
istics of  their  master,  it  is  said,  because  every  act,  of  movement  or 
of  rest,  was  closely  associated  with  the  great  principles  which  it  was 
his  object  to  inculcate.  The  detail  of  so  many  small  matters,  how* 
ever,  does  not  impress  a  foreigner  so  favourably.  There  is  a  want 
of  freedom  about  the  philosopher.  Somehow  he  is  less  a  sage  to 
me,  after  I  have  seen  him  at  his  table,  in  his  undress,  in  his  bed, 
and  in  his  carriage. 

SECTION  II. 

HIS  INFLUENCE  AND  OPIN10N8. 

1.    Confucius  died,  we  have  seen,  complaining  that  of  all  the 
princes  of  the  empire  there  was  not  one  who  would  adopt  his  prin- 
ciples and  obey  his  lessons.     He  had  hardly 

Homage    rendered    to  *       ,  /  ; 

Confucius  by  the  em-  passed  from  the  stage  of  life,  when  his  mem 
peror8°       "**  began  to  be  acknowledged.     When  the  duke 

Gae  heard  of  his  death,  he  pronounced  his  eulogy  in  the  words, 
"  Heaven  has  not  left  to  me  the  aged  man.    There  is  none  now  to 


90] 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


w&n.]  UUTUIENCX  AND  OPINIONS.  tfmnMxm***. 

asist  me  on  the  throne.  Woe  is  me!  Alas!  0  venerable  Ne!"1  Tsze- 
;ung  complained  of  the  inconsistency  of  this  lamentation  from 
>ne  who  could  not  use  the  master  when  he  was  alive,  but  the  duke 
ras  probably  sincere  in  his  grief.  He  caused  a  temple  to  be  erected, 
ind  ordered  that  sacrifice  should  be  offered  to  the  sage,  at  the  fou£ 
fcasons  of  the  year.2 
The  emperors  of  the  tottering  dynasty  of  Chow  had  not  the  in- 
dligence,  nor  were  they  in  a  position,  to  do  honour  to  the  departed 
)hilosopher,  but  the  facts  detailed  in  the  first  chapter  of  these  pro- 
fegomena,  in  connection  with  the  attempt  of  the  founder  of  the  Ts'in 
lynasty  to  destroy  the  monuments  of  antiquity,  show  how  the 
Authority  of  Confucius  had  come  by  that  time  to  prevail  through 
the  empire.  The  founder  of  the  Han  dynasty,  in  passing  through 
Loo,  B.C.  194,  visited  his  tomb  and  offered  an  ox  in  sacrifice  to 
turn.  Other  emperors  since  then  have  often  made  pilgrimages  to 
the  spot.  The  most  famous  temple  in  the  empire  now  rises  over 
the  place  of  the  grave.  K'ang-he,  the  second  and  greatest  of  the 
Irulers  of  the  present  dynasty,  in  the  23d  year  of  his  reign,  there  set 
the  example  of  kneeling  thrice,  and  each  time  laying  his  forehead 
thrice  in  the  dust,  before  the  image  of  the  sage. 

In  the  year  of  our  Lord  1,  began  the  practice  of  conferring  hono- 
rary designations  on  Confucius  by  imperial  authorit)'.  The  emperor 
P'ing8  then  styled  him — "The  duke  Ne,  all-complete  and  illus- 
trious.''4 This  was  changed,  in  a.d.  492,  to — "The  venerable  Ne, 
the  accomplished  Sage.1'5  Other  titles  have  supplanted  this.  Shun- 
che,e  the  first  of  the  Man-chow  dynasty,  adopted,  in  his  second  year, 
a.d.  645,  the  style, — "  K'ung,  the  ancient  Teacher,  accomplished  and 
illustrious,  all-complete,  the  perfect  Sage;"7  but  twelve  years  later, 
a  shorter  title  was  introduced, — "  K'ung,  the  ancient  Teacher,  the 
perfect  Sage."8    Since  that  year  no  further  alteration  has  been  made. 

At  first,  the  worship  of  Confucius  was  confined  to  the  country  of 
Loo,  but  in  a.d.  57  it  was  enacted  that  sacrifices  should  be  offered 
to  him  in  the  imperial  college,  and  in  all  the  colleges  of  the  principal 

1  Le  Ke,  IL  Pt.  I.  iii.  48.  This  eulogy  is  found  at  greater  length  in  the  ~)k  'fife,  immediately 
«te  the  notice  of  the  sage's  death.  2  See  the  g£  J||  jtfg  ^  jgj  %jr,  jjg  — s  art.  on 

Confachis.    I  am  indebted  to  this  for  most  of  the  notices  in  this  paragraph.  8  2El  *£». 

*  Digitized  by  G00gk 


COOTUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  fern.*. 

territorial  divisions  throughout  the  empire.  In  those  sacrifices  he 
was  for  some  centuries  associated  with  the  duke  of  Chow,  the  legis- 
lator to  whom  Confucius  made  frequent  reference,  but  in  a.d.  609 
separate  temples  were  assigned  to  them,  and  in  628  our  sage  dis- 
placed the  older  worthy  altogether.  About  the  same  time  began  the 
custom,  which  continues  to  the  present  day,  of  erecting  temples  to 
him, — separate  structures,  in  connection  with  all  the  colleges,  or  ex- 
amination-halls, of  the  country. 

The  sage  is  not  alone  in  those  temples.  In  a  hall  behind  the 
principal  one  occupied  by  himself  are  the  tablets — in  some  cases, 
the  images— of  several  of  his  ancestors,  and  other  worthies ;  while 
associated  with  himself  are  his  principal  disciples,  and  many  who  in 
subsequent  times  have  signalized  themselves  as  expounders  and  ex- 
emplifies of  his  doctrines.  On  the  first  day  of  every  month,  offer- 
ings of  fruits  and  vegetables  are  set  forth,  and  on  the  fifteenth  there 
is  a  solemn  burning  of  incense.  But  twice  a  year,  in  the  middle 
months  of  spring  and  autumn,  when  the  first  ting  day9  of  the 
month  comes  round,  the  worship  of  Confucius  is  performed  with 
peculiar  solemnity.  At  the  imperial  college  the  emperor  himself  is 
required  to  attend  in  state,  and  is  in  fact  the  principal  performer. 
After  all  the  preliminary  arrangements  have  been  made,  and  the 
emperor  has  twice  knelt  and  six  times  bowed  his  head  to  the  earth, 
the  presence  of  Confucius'  spirit  is  invoked  in  the  words,  "  Great 
art  thou,  0  perfect  sage !  Thy  virtue  is  full ;  thy  doctrine  is  com- 
plete. Among  mortal  men  there  has  not  been  thine  equal.  All 
kings  honour  thee.  Thy  statutes  and  laws  have  come  gloriously 
down.  Thou  art  the  pattern  in  this  imperial  school.  Reverently 
have  the  sacrificial  vessels  been  set  out.  Full  of  awe,  we  sound  our 
drums  and  bells."10 

The  spirit  is  supposed  now  to  be  present,  and  the  service  proceeds 
through  various  offerings,  when  the  first  of  which  has  been  set  forth, 
an  officer  reads  the  following,11  which  is  the  prayer  on  the  occasion : — 
"  On  this. .  ..month  of  this. .  ..year,  I,  A.B.7  the  emperor,  offer  a  sacrifice 
to  the  philosopher  K'ung,  the  ancient  Teacher,  the  perfect  Sage,  and 
say, — 0  Teacher,  in  virtue  equal  to  Heaven  and  Earth,  whose  doctrines 
embrace  the  past  time  and  the  present,  thou  didst  digest  and  trans- 
mit the  six  classics,  and  didst  hand  down  lessons  for  all  generations ! 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


••CT.nJ  INFLUENCE  AOT>  OPINIONS.  [pkolboomwia. 

Now  in  this  second  month  of  spring  (or  autumn),  in  reverent  obser- 
vance of  the  old  statutes,  with  victims,  silks,  spirits,  and  fruits,  I 
carefully  offer  sacrifice  to  thee.  With  thee  are  associated  the  philo- 
sopher Yen,  continuator  of  thee ;  the  philosopher  Ts&ng,  exhibiter 
of  thy  fundamental  principles ;  the  philosopher  Tsze-sze,  transmitter 
of  thee ;  and  the  philosopher  Ming,  second  to  thee.  May'st  thou 
enjoy  the  offerings." 

I  need  not  go  on  to  enlarge  on  the  homage  which  the  emperors 
of  China  render  to  Confucius.  It  could  not  be  more  complete.  It  is 
worship  and  not  mere  homage.  He  was  unreasonably  neglected 
when  alive.  He  is  now  unreasonably  venerated  when  dead.  The 
estimation  with  which  the  rulers  of  China  regard  their  sage,  leads 
them  to  sin  against  God,  and  is  a  misfortune  to  the  empire. 

2.  The  rulers  of  China  are  not  singular  in  this  matter,  but  in  entire 
sympathy  with  the  mass  of  their  people.    It  is  the  distinction  of  this 

General  *  r  n  f  emP^re  *^at  education  has  been  highly  prized  in 
c«ft*hifc  it  from  the  earliest  times.     It  was  so  before  the 

era  of  Confucius,  and  we  may  be  sure  that  the  system  met  with  his 
approbation.  One  of  his  remarkable  sayings  was, — "  To  lead  an 
uninstructed  people  to  war  is  to  throw  them  away."1  When  he 
pronounced  this  judgment,  he  was  not  thinking  of  military  training, 
but  of  education  in  the  duties  of  life  and  citizenship.  A  people  so 
taught,  he  thought,  would  be  morally  fitted  to  fight  for  their  govern- 
ment. Mencius,  when  lecturing  to  the  duke  of  T'&ng  on  the  proper 
way  of  governing  a  kingdom,  told  him  that  he  must  provide  the 
means  of  education  for  all,  the  poor  as  well  as  the  rich.  "  Establish," 
said  he,  "  tfeang,  seu,  heo,  and  heaou, — all  those  educational  institu- 
tions,— for  the  instruction  of  the  people."2 

At  the  present  day,  education  is  widely  diffused  throughout 
China.  In  no  other  country  is  the  schoolmaster  more  abroad,  and 
in  all  schools  it  is  Confucius  who  is  taught.  The  plan  of  competi- 
tive examinations,  and  the  selection  for  civil  offices  only  from  those 
who  have  been  successful  candidates, — good  so  far  as  the  competition 
is  concerned,  but  injurious  from  the  restricted  range  of  subjects  with 
which  an  acquaintance  is  required, — have  obtained  for  more  than 
twelve  centuries.  The  classical  works  are  the  text  books.  It  is 
from  them  almost  exclusively  that  the  themes  proposed  to  determine 

1  Ana.  XIII.  30.  2  Mencius,  HI.  Pt.  I.  iii  10. 

J,  J 


MMHMoiomA.}  CONFUCIUS  ATO  HIS  DISCIPLE8-  [«.«. 

the  knowledge  and  ability  of  the  students  are  chosen.  The  whole 
of  the  magistracy  of  China  is  thus  versed  in  all  that  is  recorded  of 
the  sage,  and  in  the  ancient  literature  which  he  preserved.  His 
thoughts  are  familiar  to  every  man  in  authority,  and  his  character 
is  more  or  less  reproduced  in  him. 

The  official  civilians  of  China,  numerous  as  they  are,  are  but  a  frac- 
tion of  its  students,  and  the  students,  or  those  who  make  literature 
a  profession,  are  again  but  a  fraction  of  those  who  attend  school 
for  a  shorter  or  longer  period.  Yet  so  far  as  the  studies  have 
gone,  they  have  been  occupied  with  the  Confucian  writings.  In 
many  schoolrooms  there  is  a  tablet  or  inscription  on  the  wall, 
sacred  to  the  sage,  and  every  pupil  is  required,  on  coming  to  school 
on  the  morning  of  the  1st  and  15th  of  every  month,  to  bow  before 
it,  the  first  thing,  as  an  act  of  worship.8  Thus  all  in  China  who 
receive  the  slightest  tincture  of  learning  do  so  at  the  fountain  of 
Confucius.  They  learn  of  him  and  do  homage  to  him  at  once.  I 
have  repeatedly  quoted  the  statement  that  during  his  life-time  he 
had  three  thousand  disciples.  Hundreds  of  millions  are  his  disciples 
now.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  make  any  allowance  in  this  statement 
for  the  followers  of  Taouism  and  Buddhism,  for,  as  Sir  John  Davis 
has  observed,  "  whatever  the  other  opinions  or  faith  of  a  Chinese 
may  be,  he  takes  good  care  to  treat  Confucius  with  respect"4  For 
two  thousand  years  he  has  reigned  supreme,  the  undisputed  teacher 
of  this  most  populous  land. 

3.  This  position  and  influence  of  Confucius  are  to"  be  ascribed,  I 
conceive,  chiefly  to  two  causes: — his  being  the  preserver,  namely  of 

Thecatwesofhis  the  mamimeats  of  antiquity,  and  the  exeraplifier 
influence.  and  expounder  of  the  maxims  of  the  golden  age  of 

China;  and  the  devotion  to  him  of  his  immediate  disciples  and  their 
early  followers.  The  national  and  the  personal  are  thus  blended 
in  him,  each  in  its  highest  degree  of  excellence.  He  was  a  Chinese 
of  the  Chinese ;  he  is  also  represented,  and  all  now  believe  him  to 
have  been,  the  beau  ideal  of  humanity  in  its  best  and  noblest  estate. 

4.  It  may  be  well  to  bring  forward  here  Confucius'  own  estimate 
of  himself,  and  of  his  doctrines.     It  will  serve  to  illustrate  the 

8  During  the  present  dynasty,  the  tablet  of  ~fr  B  ^jj*  3S*,  the  god  of  literature,  has  to  a 
considerable  extent  displaced  that  of  Confucius  in  schools.  Yet  the  worship  of  him  does  not 
clash  with  that  of  the  other.    He  is  *  the  father'  of  composition  only.  4  The  Chinese,  voL 

II.  p.  45. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


■ct.t]  INfLUBNCB  AND  0PIHI0K&  [noLaooMHM* 

Hi.owne.tim.teofhim.eif  ^tements  just  made.  The  following  are 
iwirfhu doctrine*.  some  of  his  sayings. — "The    sage  and  the 

nan  of  perfect  virtue ; — how  dare  I  rank  myself  with  them  ?  It 
aay  simply  be  said  of  me,  that  I  strive  to  become  such  without 
atiety,  and  teach  others  without  weariness."  "In  letters  I  am 
perhaps  equal  to  other  men ;  but  the  character  of  the  superior 
nan,  carrying  out  in  his  conduct  what  he  professes,  is  what  I  have 
lot  yet  attained  to."  "  The  leaving  virtue  without  proper  cultiva- 
tion ;  the  not  thoroughly  discussing  what  is  learned ;  not  being 
die  to  move  towards  righteousness  of  which  a  knowledge  is  gain- 
ed ;  and  not  being  able  to  change  what  is  not  good ; — these  are  the 
Ihings  which  occasion  me  solicitude."  "  I  am  not  one  who  was 
bom  in  the  possession  of  knowledge ;  I  am  one  who  is  fond  [of  anti- 
|mty  and  earnest  in  seeking  it  there."  "  A  transmitter  and  not  a 
maker,  believing  in  and  loving  the  ancients,  I  venture  to  compare 
myself  with  our  old  P'ang."1 

Confucius  cannot  be  thought  to  speak  of  himself  in  these  declara- 
tions more  highly  than  he  ought  to  do.  Rather  we  may  recognize 
in  them  the  expressions  of  a  genuine  humility.  He  was  conscious 
that  personally  he  came  short  in  many  things,  but  he  toiled  after 
the  character,  which  he  saw,  or  fancied  that  he  saw,  in  the  ancient 
aagea  whom  he  acknowledged ;  and  the  lessons  of  government  and 
morals  which  he  laboured  to  diffuse  were  those  which  had 
already  been  inculcated  and  exhibited  by  them.  Emphatically  he 
was  u  a  transmitter  and  not  a  maker."  It  is  not  to  be  understood 
that  he  was  not  fully  satisfied  of  the  truth  of  the  principles  which 
he  had  learned.  He  held  them  with  the  full  approval  and  consent 
of  his  own  understanding.  He  believed  that  if  they  were  acted 
on,  they  would  remedy  the  evils  of  his  time.  There  was  nothing 
to  prevent  rulers  like  Yaou  and  Shun  and  the  great  Yu  from  again 
wiring,  and  a  condition  of  happy  tranquillity  being  realized 
throughout  the  empire  under  their  sway. 

If  in  any  thing  he  thought  himself  "  superior  and  alone,"  hav- 
ing attributes  which  others  could  not  claim,  it  was  in  his  possessing 
a  divine  commission  as  the  conservator  of  ancient  truth  and  rules. 
He  does  not  speak  very  definitely  on  this  point.     It  is  noted  that 

t  AH  these  passages  are  taken  from  the  Vllth  Book  of  the  Analects.  See  chh.  xuiii ;  xxxii. ; 
iiiixix.;  audi. 

95]  Digitized  by  G00gk 


MwutooMiKA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ch.* 

"  the  appointments  of  Heaven  was  one  of  the  subjects  on  which  he 
rarely,  touched."2  His  most  remarkable  utterance  was  that  which  I  have 
already  given  in  the  sketch  of  his  Life : — "  When  he  was  put  in  fear 
in  K'wang,  he  said,  '  After  the  death  of  king  Wan,  was  not  the 
cause  of  truth  lodged  here  in  me  ?  If  Heaven  had  wished  to  let 
this  cause  of  truth  perish,  then  I,  a  future  mortal,  should  not  have 
got  such  a  relation  to  that  cause.  While  Heaven  does  not  let  the 
cause  of  truth  perish,  what  can  the  people  of  Kwang  do  to  me? ' "• 
Confucius,  then,  did  feel  that  he  was  in  the  world  for  a  special 
purpose.  But  it  was  not  to  announce  any  new  truths,  or  to  initiate 
any  new  economy.  It  was  to  prevent  what  had  previously  been 
known  from  being  lost.  He  followed  in  the  wake  of  Yaou  and 
Shun,  of  T'ang,  and  king  Win.  Distant  from  the  last  by  a  long 
interval  of  time,  he  would  have  said  that  he  was  distant  from  him 
also  by  a  great  inferiority  of  character,  but  still  he  had  learned  the 
principles  on  which  they  all  happily  governed  the  empire,  and  in 
their  name  he  would  lift  up  a  standard  against  the  prevailing  law 
lessness  of  his  age. 

5.  The  language  employed  with  reference  to  Confucius  by  his 

disciples  and  their  early  followers  presents  a  striking  contrast  with 

his  own.     I  have  already,  in  writing  of  the 

Estimate  of  him  by  his  .         ,  *    „  mi        -m  .  «     i 

disciples  and  their  early     scope    and  value  of  "The   Doctrine   of  the 
0  oweri*  Mean,"  called  attention  to  the  extravagant 

eulogies  of  his  grandson  Tsze-sze.  He  only  followed  the  example 
which  had  been  set  by  those  among  whom  the  philosopher  went  in 
and  out.  We  have  the  language  of  Yen  Yuen,  his  favourite,  which 
is  comparatively  moderate,  and  simply  expresses  the  genuine  admira- 
tion of  a  devoted  pupil.1  Tsze-kung  on  several  occasions  spoke  in  a 
different  style.  Having  heard  that  one  of  the  chiefs  of  Loo  had 
said  that  he  himself — Tsze-kung — was  superior  to  Confucius,  be 
observed,  "  Let  me  use  the  comparison  of  a  house  and  its  encompass- 
ing wall.  My  wall  only  reaches  to  the  shoulders.  One  may  peep 
over  it,  and  see  whatever  is  valuable  in  the  apartments.  The  wall 
of  my  master  is  several  fathoms  high.  If  one  do  not  find  the  door 
and  enter  by  it,  he  cannot  see  the  rich  ancestral  temple  with  its 
beauties,  nor  all  the  officers  in  their  rich  array.     But  I  may  assume 

2  Ana.  IX.  i.  8  Ana.  IX.  iii. 

1  Ana.  IX.  x. 

96] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


•°T.n.]  INFLUENCE  AND  OPINIONS.  [piotBoowwA. 

that  they  are  few  who  find  the  door.     The  remark  of  the  chief  was 
>n!y  what  might  have  been  expected."2 

Another  time,  the  same  individual  having  spoken  revilingly  of 
Confucius,  Tsze-kung  said,  "  It  is  of  no  use  doing  so.  Chung-ne 
annot  be  reviled.  The  talents  and  virtue  of  other  men  are  hillocks 
ind  mounds  which  may  be  stept  over.  Chung-ne  is  the  sun  or 
noon,  which  it  is  not  possible  to  step  over.  Although  a  man  may 
tfish  to  cut  himself  off  from  the  sage,  what  harm  can  he  do  to  the 
ran  and  moon  ?  He  only  shows  that  he  does  not  know  his  own 
sapacity."3 

In  conversation  with  a  fellow-disciple,  Tsze-kung  took  a  still 
irigher  flight.  Being  charged  by  Tsze-k'in  with  being  too  modest, 
for  that  Confucius  was  not  really  superior  to  him,  he  replied,  "  For 
one  word  a  man  is  often  deemed  to  be  wise,  and  for  one  word  he  is 
often  deemed  to  be  foolish.  We  ought  to  be  careful  indeed  in 
what  we  say.  Our  master  cannot  be  attained  to,  just  in  the  same 
way  as  the  heavens  cannot  be  gone  up  to  by  the  steps  of  a  stair. 
Were  our  master  in  the  position  of  the  prince  of  a  State,  or  the  chief 
of  a  Family,  we  should  find  verified  the  description  which  has  been 
given  of  a  sage's  rule : — He  would  plant  the  people,  and  forthwith 
they  would  be  established ;  he  would  lead  them  on,  and  forthwith 
they  would  follow  him ;  he  would  make  them  happy,  and  forthwith 
multitudes  would  resort  to  his  dominions ;  he  would  stimulate  them, 
and  forthwith  they  would  be  harmonious.  While  he  lived,  he  would 
be  glorious.  When  he  died,  he  would  be  bitterly  lamented.  How  is 
it  possible  for  him  to  be  attained  to  ?"4 

From  these  representations  of  Tsze-kung,  it  was  not  a  difficult 
step  for  Tsze-sze  to  make  in  exalting  Confucius  not  only  to  the  level 
of  the  ancient  sages,  but  as  "the  equal  of  Heaven."  And  Mencius 
took  up  the  theme.  Being  questioned  by  Kung-sun  Ch'ow,  one  of 
his  disciples,  about  two  acknowledged  sages,  Pih-e  and  E  Yin,  whe- 
ther they  were  to  be  placed  in  the  same  rank  with  Confucius,  he 
replied,  "No.  Since  there  were  living  men  until  now,  there  never 
was  another  Confucius ;"  and  then  he  proceeded  to  fortify  his  opinion 
ty  the  concurring  testimony  of  Tsae  Go,  Tsze-kung  and  Yew  Jo, 
who  all  had  wisdom,  he  thought,  sufficient  to  know  their  master. 
Tsae  Go's  opinion  was,  "According  to  my  view  of  our  master,  he  is 

2  Ana.  XIX.  xxiii.  3  Ana.  XIX.  xaiv.  i  Ana.  XIX.  xxv. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


ntoLEoovEKA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND   HtS  DISCIPLES.  £ch.t. 

far  superior  to  Yaou  and  Shun."  Tsze-kung  said,  "  By  viewing  the 
ceremonial  ordinances  of  a  prince,  we  know  the  character  of  his 
government.  By  hearing  his  music,  we  know  the  character  of  his 
virtue.  From  the  distance  of  a  hundred  ages  after,  I  can  arrange, 
according  to  their  merits,  the  kings  of  a  hundred  ages; — not  one 
of  them  can  escape  me.  From  the  birth  of  mankind  till  now,  there 
has  never  been  another  like  our  master."  Yew  Jo  said,  "  Is  it  only 
among  men  that  it  is  so  ?  There  is  the  k'e-lin  among  quadrupeds ; 
the  fung-hwang  among  birds ;  the  T'ae  mountain  among  mounds 
and  ant-hills ;  and  rivers  and  seas  among  rain-pools.  Though  differ- 
ent in  degree,  they  are  the  same  in  kind.  So  the  sages  among 
mankind  are  also  the  same  in  kind.  But  they  stand  out  from  their 
fellows,  and  rise  above  the  level ;  and  from  the  birth  of  mankind  till 
now,  there  never  has  been  one  so  complete  as  Confucius."6  I  will 
not  indulge  in  farther  illustration.  The  judgment  of  the  sage's  dis- 
ciples, of  Tsze-sze,  and  of  Mencius,  has  been  unchallenged  by  the  mass 
of  the  scholars  of  China.  Doubtless  it  pleases  them  to  bow  down 
at  the  shrine  of  the  sage,  for  their  profession  of  literature  is  thereby 
glorified.  A  reflection  of  the  honour  done  to  him  falls  upon  them- 
selves. And  the  powers  that  be,  and  the  multitudes  of  the  people, 
fall  in  with  the  judgment.  Confucius  is  thus,  in  the  empire  of 
China,  the  one  man  by  whom  all  possible  personal  excellence  was 
exemplified,  and  by  whom  all  possible  lessons  of  social  virtue  and 
political  wisdom  are  taught. 

6.  The  reader  will  be  prepared  by  the  preceding  account  not  to 
expect  to  find  any  light  thrown  by  Confucius  on  the  great  prob- 
subjects  on  which  ConAicius      lem8  of  the  human  condition  and  destiny. 
^Xu^^^^n      He  did  ™t  8P<*ul*te  on  the  creation  of 
to  the  charge  of  insincerity,  things  or  the  end  of  them.     He  was  not 

troubled  to  account  for  the  origin  of  man,  nor  did  he  seek  to  know 
about  his  hereafter.  He  meddled  neither  with  physics  nor  meta- 
physics.1   The  testimony  of  the  Analects  about  the  subjects  of  lib 

5  Mencius,  II.  Ti.  I.  ii.  23—28. 
1  The  contents  of  the  Yin-king,  and  Confucius'  labours  upon  it,  may  be  objected  in  opposition 
to  this  statement,  and  I  must  be  understood  to  make  it  with  some  reservation.  Six  years  ago,  I 
spent  all  ray  leisure  time  for  twelre  months  in  the  study  of  that  Work,  and  wrote  out  a  translation 
of  it,  but  at  the  close  I  was  only  groping  my  way  in  darkness  to  lay  hold  of  its  scope  and  mean- 
ing, and  up  to  this  time  I  have  not  been  able  to  master  it  so  as  to  speak  positively  about  it.  It 
will  come  in  due  time,  in  its  place,  in  the  present  Publication,  and  1  do  not  think  that  what  1  herd 
say  of  Confucius  will  require  much,  if  any,  modification. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


•KT.n.]  INFLUENCE  AND  OPINIONS.  [fbolegommu. 

teaching  is  the  following :— "  His  frequent  themes  of  discourse  were 
the  Boot  of  Poetry,  the  Book  of  History,  and  the  maintenance  of 
the  rules  of  Propriety."  "  He  taught  letters,  ethics,  devotion  of 
soul,  aud  truthfulness."  "  Extraordinary  things ;  feats  of  strength  ; 
states  of  disorder;  and  spiritual  beings;  he  did  not  like  to  talk 
about."2 

Confucius  is  not  to  be  blamed  for  his  silence  on  the  subjects  here 
indicated.  His  ignorance  of  them  was  to  a  great  extent  his  mis- 
fortune. He  had  not  learned  them.  No  report  of  them  had  come 
to  him  by  the  ear ;  no  vision  of  them  by  the  eye.  And  to  his 
practical  mind  the  toiling  of  thought  amid  uncertainties  seemed 
worse  than  useless. 

The  question  has,  indeed,  been  raised,  whether  he  did  not  make 
changes  in  the  ancient  creed  of  China,3  but  I  cannot  believe  that 
he  did  so  consciously  and  designedly.  Had  his  idiosyncrasy  been 
different,  we  might  have  had  expositions  of  the  ancient  views  on 
some  poiuts,  the  effect  of  which  would  have  been  more  beneficial  than 
the  indefiniteness  in  which  they  are  now  left,  and  it  may  be  doubted 
so  far,  whether  Confucius  was  not  unfaithful  to  his  guides.  But 
that  he  suppressed  or  added,  in  order  to  bring  in  articles  of  belief 
originating  with  himself,  is  a  thing  not  to  be  charged  against  him. 

I  will  mention  two  important  subjects  in  regard  to  which  there  is 
a  growing  conviction  in  my  mind  that  he  came  short  of  the  faith 
of  the  older  sages.  The  first  is  the  doctrine  of  God.  This  name  is 
common  in  the  She-king,  and  Shoo-king.  Te  or  Shang  Te  appears 
there  as  a  personal  being,  ruling  in  heaven  and  on  earth,  the  author 
of  man's  moral  nature,  the  governor  among  the  nations,  by  whom 
kings  reign  and  princes  decree  justice,  the  rewarder  of  the  good,  and 
the  punisher  of  the  bad.  Confucius  preferred  to  speak  of  Heaven. 
Instances  have  already  been  given  of  this.  Two  others  may  be  cited : 
— "  He  who  offends  against  Heaven  has  none  to  whom  he  can  pray  ?  "4 
"  Alas ! "  said  he,  u  there  is  no  one  that  knows  me."  Tsze-kung  said, 
"  What  do  you  mean  by  thus  saying  that  no  one  knows  you  ?"  He 
replied,*  "I  do  not  murmur  against  Heaven.  I  do  not  grumble 
against  men.  My  studies  lie  low,  and  my  penetration  rises  high. 
But  there  is  Heaven ; — that  knows  me  !"s  Not  once  throughout  the 

2.  Ana.  VH.  xvii;  xxir^  xx.  8  8ee  Hardwick's  *  Christ  and  other  Master*/    Part  III. 

pp.18,  19,  with  his  reference  in  a  note  to  a  passage  from  Meadows'  *  The  Chinese  and  their 
febellions.'  4  Ana.  III.  xiii.  5  Aua.  XIV.  xxxvii. 

99] 


fROLKGOMEHA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  lch.t. 

Analects  does  he  use  the  personal  name.  I  would  say  that  he  was 
unreligious  rather  than  irreligious ;  yet  by  the  coldness  of  his  tem- 
perament and  intellect  in  this  matter,  his  influence  is  unfavourable 
to  the  development  of  true  religious  feeling  among  the  Chinese  peo- 
ple generally,  and  he  prepared  the  way  for  the  speculations  of  the 
literati  of  mediaeval  and  modern  times,  which  have  exposed  them  to 
the  charge  of  atheism. 

Secondly,  Along  with  the  worship  of  God  there  existed  in  China, 
from  the  earliest  historical  times,  the  worship  of  other  spiritual 
beings, — especially,  and  to  every  individual,  the  worship  of  departed 
ancestors.  Confucius  recognized  this  as  an  institution  to  be  de- 
voutly observed.  "  He  sacrificed  to  the  dead  as  if  they  were  pre- 
sent; he  sacrificed  to  the  spirits  as  if  the  spirits  were  present. 
He  said,  4 1  consider  my  not  being  present  at  the  sacrifice  as  if  I 
did  not  sacrifice.'"6  The  custom  must  have  originated  from  a  belief 
of  the  continued  existence  of  the  dead.  We  cannot  suppose  that 
they  who  instituted  it  thought  that  with  the  cessation  of  this  life 
on  earth  there  was  a  cessation  also  of  all  conscious  being.  But 
Confucius  never  spoke  explicitly  on  this  subject.  He  tried  to 
evade  it.  "  Ke  Loo  asked  about  serving  the  spirits  of  the  dead, 
and  the  master  said,  *  While  you  are  not  able  to  serve  men,  how 
can  you  serve  their  spirits?'  The  disciple  added,  *I  venture  to 
ask  about  death,'  and  he  was  answered,  4  While  you  do  not  know 
life,  how  can  you  know  about  death.'"7  Still  more  striking  is  a 
conversation  with  another  disciple,  recorded  in  the  "  Family  Say- 
ings." Tsze-kung  asked  him,  saying,  "Do  the  dead  have  know- 
ledge (of  our  services,  that  is),  or  are  they  without,  knowledge?" 
The  master  replied,  "  If  I  were  to  say  that  the  dead  have  such 
knowledge,  I  am  afraid  that  filial  sons  and  dutiful  grandsons 
would  injure  their  substance  in  paying  the  last  offices  to  the  de- 
parted ;  and  if  I  were  to  say  that  the  dead  have  not  such  knowledge, 
I  am  afraid  lest  unfilial  sons  should  leave  their  parents  unburied. 
You  need  not  wish,  T&'^e,  to  know  whether  the  dead  have  know- 
ledge or  not.  There  is  no  present  urgency  about  the  point. 
Hereafter  you  will  know  it  for  yourself."8  Surely  this  was  not  the 
teaching  proper  to  a  sage.     He  said  on  one  occasion  that  he  had 

6  Ana.  III.  xii.  7  Ana.  XL  xi.  8  ^  =gf ,  jg  ^,  art.  jgj£  ,@>>  ******  ** 

end. 

J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


fciCT.ii]  INFLUENCE  AND  OPINIONS.  [prolegohteka. 

no  concealments  from  his  disciples.9    Why  did  he  not  candidly  tell 
his  real  thoughts  on  so  interesting  a  subject?     I  incline  to  think 
that  he  doubted  more  than  he  believed.     If  the  case  were  not  so,  it 
would  be  difficult  to  account  for  the  answer  which  he  returned  to  a 
question  as  to  what  constituted  wisdom.     "  To  give  one's-self  ear- 
nestly," said  he,  "  to  the  duties  due  to  men,  and,  while  respecting  spirit- 
ual beings,  to  keep  aloof  from  them,  may  be  called  wisdom."10    At 
any  rate,  as  by  his  frequent  references  to  Heaven,  instead  of  follow* 
ing  the  phraseology  of  the  older  sages,  he  gave  occasion  to  many  of 
his  professed  followers  to  identify  God  with  a  principle  of  reason  and 
the  course  of  nature ;  so,  in  the  point  now  in  hand,  he  has  led 
them  to  deny,  like  the  Sadducees  of  old,  the  existence  of  any  spirit 
at  all,   and  to  tell  us  that  their  sacrifices  to  the  dead  are  but  an 
outward  form,  the  mode  of  expression  which  the  principle  of  filial 
piety  requires  them  to  adopt,  when  its  objects  have  departed  this  life. 
It  will  not  be  supposed  that  I  wish  to  advocate  or  to  defend  the 
practice  of  sacrificing  to  the  dead.     My  object  has  been  to  point 
out  how  Confucius  recognized  it,  without  acknowledging  the  faith 
from  which  it  must  have  originated,  and  how  he  enforced  it  as  a 
matter  of  form  or  ceremony.    It  thus  connects  itself  with  the  most 
serious  charge  that  can  be  brought  against  him, — the  charge   of 
insincerity.     Among  the  four  things  which  it  is  said  he  taught, 
"truthfulness"  is  specified,11  and  many  sayings  might  be  quoted 
from  him,  in  which  "  sincerity  "  is  celebrated  as  highly  and  demanded 
as  stringently  as  ever  it  has  been  by  any  Christian  moralist ;  yet  he 
was  not  altogether  the  truthful  and  true  man  to  whom  we  accord 
our  highest  approbation.     There  was  the  case  of  Mang  Che-fan, 
who  boldly  brought  up  the  rear  of  the  defeated  troops  of  Loo,  and 
attributed  his  occupying  the  place  of  honour  to  the  backwardness 
of  his  horse.     The  action  was  gallant,  but  the  apology  for  it  was 
weak  and  wrong.     And  yet  Confucius  saw  nothing  in  the  whole 
but  matter  for  praise.12    He  could  excuse  himself  from  seeing  an 
unwelcome  visitor  on  the  ground  that  he  was  sick,  when  there  was 
nothing  the  matter  with  him.18    These  perhaps  were  small  matters, 
but  what  shall  we  say  to  the  incident  which  I  have  given  in  the 
ftketch  of  his  Life,  p.  80, — his  deliberately  breaking  the  oath  which 

%  Ana.  VII.  xxiii.         10  Ana.  VI.  xx.        11  See  above,  Dear  the  beginning  of  this  paragraph. 
12  Ana.  VI.  xiii.  13  Ana,  XVII.  xx. 

101 J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


rftOMKxnmuO  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DI8CIPLE8. 

he  had  sworn,  simply  on  the  ground  that  it  had  been  forced 
him  ?  I  should  be  glad  if  I  could  find  evidence  on  which  to  d 
the  truth  of  that  occurrence.  But  it  rests  on  the  same  authority 
most  other  statements  about  him,  and  it  is  accepted  as  a  fact  by 
people  and  scholars  of  China.  It  must  have  had,  and  it  must  ati 
have,  a  very  injurious  influence  upon  them.  Foreigners  char] 
and  with  reason,  a  habit  of  deceitfulness  upon  the  nation  and  ii 
government  For  every  word  of  falsehood  and  every  act  of  insincerity 
the  guilty  party  must  bear  his  own  burden,  but  we  cannot  brt 
regret  the  example  of  Confucius  in  this  particular.  It  is  with  the  Cht 
nese  and  their  sage,  as  it  was  with  the  Jews  of  old  and  their  teachew 
He  that  leads  them  has  caused  them  to  err,  and  destroyed  the  wad 
of  their  paths.14 

But  was  not  insincerity  a  natural  result  of  the  un-religion  of 
Confucius  ?  There  are  certain  virtues  which  demand  a  true  piety 
in  order  to  their  flourishing  in  the  corrupt  heart  of  man.  Natural 
affection,  the  feeling  of  loyalty,  and  enlightened  policy,  may  do 
much  to  build  up-  and  preserve  a  family  and  a  State,  but  it  require* 
more  to  maintain  the  love  of  truth,  and  make  a  lie,  spoken  or  acted, 
to  be  shrunk  from  with  shame.  It  requires  in  fact  the  living  r^ 
cognition  of  a  God  of  truth,  and  all  the  sanctions  of  revealed  religion. 
Unfortunately  the  Chinese  have  not  had  these,  and  the  example  of 
him  to  whom  they  bow  down  as  the  best  and  wisest  of  men,  encour- 
ages them  to  act,  to  dissemble,  to  sin. 

7.  I  go  on  to  a  brief  discussion  of  Confucius*  views  on  government^ 
or  what  we  may  call  his  principles  of  political  science.    It  could  not 

TT1  be  in  his  long  intercourse  with  his  disciples  but  that  he 

Hi*  Yiewt  on  °  r 

government.  should  enunciate  many  maxims  bearing  on  character 
and  morals  generally,  but  he  never  rested  in  the  improvement  of  tie 
individual.  "  The  empire  brought  to  a  state  of  happy  tranquillity"* 
was  the  grand  object  which  he  delighted  to  think  of;  that  it  might 
be  brought  about  as  easily  as  "one  can  look  upon  the  palm  of  his 
hand/9  was  the  dream  which  it  pleased  him  to  indulge  in.2  He  held 
that  there  was  in  men  an  adaptation  and  readiness  to  be  governed, 
which  only  needed  to  be  taken  advantage  of  in  the  proper  way. 
There  must  be  the  right  administrators,  but  given  those,  and  "  the 

14  Isaiah,  iii.  12. 
15^"F2P-    Sec  the  j^  ^^,  j|^,  parr,  4, 5 ;  &c.  2  Ana.  m.  xi.j  *t  al 

102] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


mn.]  INFLUENCE  AND  OPINIONS.  [pboleoohbka. 

growth  of  government  would  be  rapid,  just  as  vegetation  is  rapid 
in  the  earth ;  yea,  their  government  would  display  itself  like  an 
easily-growing  rush."3  The  same  sentiment  was  common  from  the 
Mps  of  M en c ius.  Enforcing  it  one  day,  when  conversing  with  one 
•f  the  petty  princes  of  his  time,  he  said  in  his  peculiar  style,  "  Does 
your  Majesty  understand  the  way  of  the  growing  grain  ?  During 
the  seventh  and  eighth  months,  when  drought  prevails,  the  plants 
become  dry.  Then  the  clouds  collect  densely  in  the  heavens,  they 
send  down  torrents  of  rain,  and  the  grain  erects  itself  as  if  by  a  shoot. 
When  it  does  so,  who  can  keep  it  back?"4  Such,  he  contended, 
would  be  the  response  of  the  mass  of  the  people  to  any  true  "  shep- 
herd of  men."  It  may  be  deemed  unnecessary  that  I  should  specify 
this  point,  for  it  is  a  truth  applicable  to  the  people  of  all  nations. 
Speaking  generally,  government  is  by  no  device  or  cunning  crafti- 
ness ;  human  nature  demands  it.  But  in  no  other  family  of  man- 
kind is  the  characteristic  so  largely  developed  as  in  the  Chinese. 
The  love  of  order  and  quiet,  and  a  willingness  to  submit  to  "  the  . 
powers  that  be",  eminently  distinguish  them.  Foreign  writers  have 
often  taken  notice  of  this,  and  have  attributed  it  to  the  influence  of 
Confucius'  doctrines  as  inculcating  subordination ;  but  it  existed  pre- 
vious to  his  time.  The  character  of  the  people  moulded  his  system^ 
more  than  it  was  moulded  by  it. 

This  readiness  to  be  governed  arose,  according  to  Confucius,  from 
"  the  duties  of  universal  obligation,  or  those  between  sovereign  and 
minister,  between  father  and  son,  between  husband  and  wife,  between 
elder  brother  and  younger,  and  those  belonging  to  the  intercourse 
of  friends."6  Men  as  they  are  born  into  the  world,  and  grow  up  in 
it,  find  themselves  existing  in  those  relations.  They  are  the  appoint- 
ment of  Heaven.  And  each  relation  has  its  reciprocal  obligations, 
the  recognition  of  which  is  proper  to  the  Heaven-conferred  nature. 
It  only  needs  that  the  sacredness  of  the  relations  be  maintained,  and 
the  duties  belonging  to  them  faithfully  discharged,  and  the  "  happy 
tranquillity'1  will  prevail  all  under  heaven.  As  to  the  institutions 
of  government,  the  laws  and  arrangements  by  which,  as  through  a 
thousand  channels,  it  should  go  forth  to  carry  plenty  and  prosperity 
through  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  country,  it  did  not  belong  to 
Confucius,  "  the  throneless  king,"  to  set  them  forth  minutely.     And 

3  p|j  0,  xx  3.  i  Mencius,  I.  Pt.  I.  vL  6.  5  pjl  j|f ,  xx.  8 

103] 


MtOLtooMEKA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HI8  DISCIPLES.  [ch.«. 

indeed  they  were  existing  in  the  records  of  "  tlie  ancient  sovereigns." 
Nothing  new  was  needed.  It  was  only  requisite  to  pursue  the  old 
paths,  and  raise  up  the  old  standards.  "  The  government  of  Win  and 
Woo,"  he  said,  "  is  displayed  in  the  records, — the  tablets  of  wood 
and  bamboo.  Let  there  be  the  men,  and  the  government  will 
flourish,  but  without  the  men,  the  government  decays  and  ceases. "* 
To  the  same  effect  was  the  reply  which  he  gave  to  Yen  Hwuy  when, 
asked  by  him  how  the  government  of  a  State  should  be  administer- 
ed. It  seems  very  wide  of  the  mark,  until  we  read  it  in  the  light 
of  the  sage's  veneration  for  ancient  ordinances,  and  his  opinion  of 
their  sufficiency.  "  Follow,"  he  said,  "  the  seasons  of  Hea.  Ride  in 
the  state-carriages  of  Yin.  Wear  the  ceremonial  cap  of  Chow.  Let 
the  music  be  the  Shaou  with  its  pantomimes.  Banish  the  songs  of 
Ch'ing,  and  keep  far  from  specious  talkers."7 

Confucius'  idea  then  of  a  happy,  well-governed  State  did  not  go 
beyond  the  flourishing  of  the  five  relations  of  society  which  have 
been  mentioned ;  and  we  have  not  any  condensed  exhibition  from 
him  of  their  nature,  or  of  the  duties  belonging  to  the  several  parties 
in  them.  Of  the  two  first  he  spoke  frequently,  but  all  that  he  has 
said  on  the  others  would  go  into  small  compass.  Mencius  has  said 
that  "  between  father  and  son  there  should  be  affection ;  between 
sovereign  and  minister  righteousness;  between  husband  and  wile 
attention  to  their  separate  functions;  between  old  and  young,  a 
proper  order ;  and  between  friends,  fidelity."8  Confucius,  I  apprehend, 
would  hardly  have  accepted  this  account.  It  does  not  bring  out 
sufficiently  the  authority  which  he  claimed  for  the  father  and  the 
sovereign,  and  the  obedience  which  he  exacted  from  the  child  and 
the  minister.  With  regard  to  the  relation  of  husband  and  wife,  he 
was  in  no  respect  superior  to  the  preceding  sages  who  had  enunciated 
their  views  of  "  propriety  "  on  the  subject.  We  have  a  somewhat 
detailed  exposition  of  his  opinions  in  the  "  Family  Sayings. — "  Man," 
said  he,  "  is  the  representative  of  Heaven,  and  is  supreme  over  all 
things.  Woman  yields  obedience  to  the  instructions  of  man,  and 
helps  to  carry  out  his  principles.9  On  this  account  she  can  deter* 
mine  nothing  of  herself,  and  is  subject  to  the  rule  of  the  three 

6  p|j  )|f ,  xx.  2.  7  Ana.  XV.  x.  8  Mencius,  III.  Ft.  I.  it.  8.  9  j^J  ^  4£, 

&  *&m  m  ®  'to%&±^&M  ji  ^  z  m>  m  m  £ 

1(M3  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


H*r.u.]  HIS  INFLUENCE  AND  OPINIONS.  [prolbqombju. 

obediences.  When  young,  she  must  obey  her  father  and  elder 
brother;  when  married,  she  must  obey  her  husband;  when  her 
husband  is  dead,  she  must  obey  her  son.  She  may  not  think  of 
marrying  a  second  time.  No  instructions  or  orders  must  issue  from 
the  harem.  Woman's  business  is  simply  the  preparation  and  sup- 
plying of  wine  and  food.  Beyond  the  threshold  of  her  apartments 
she  should  not  be  known  for  evil  or  for  good.  She  may  not  cross 
the  boundaries  of  the  State  to  accompany  a  funeral.  She  may  take 
no  step  on  her  own  motion,  and  may  come  to  no  conclusion  on  her 
own  deliberation.  There  are  five  women  who  are  not  to  be  taken 
in  marriage : — the  daughter  of  a  rebellious  house ;  the  daughter  of  a 
disorderly  house;  the  daughter  of  a  house  which  has  produced 
criminals  for  more  than  one  generation  ;  the  daughter  of  a  leprous 
house ;  and  the  daughter  who  has  lost  her  father  and  elder  brother. 
A  wife  may  be  divorced  for  seven  reasons,  which  may  be  overruled 
by  three  considerations.  The  grounds  for  divorce  are  disobedience 
to  her  husband's  parents ;  not  giving  birth  to  a  son ;  dissolute  con- 
duct;  jealousy  (of  her  husbands  attentions,  that  is,  to  the  other 
inmates  of  his  harem) ;  talkativeness ;  and  thieving.  The  three  con- 
siderations which  may  overrule  these  grounds  are — first,  if,  while 
she  was  taken  from  a  home,  she  has  now  no  home  to  return  to ; 
second,  if  she  have  passed  with  her  husband  through  the  three  years' 
mourning  for  his  parents ;  third,  if  the  husband  have  become  rich 
from  being  poor.  All  these  regulations  were  adopted  by  the  sages 
in  harmony  with  the  natures  of  man  and  woman,  and  to  give 
importance  to  the  ordinance  of  marriage."10 

With  these  ideas — not  very  enlarged — of  the  relations  of  society, 
Confucius  dwelt  much  on  the  necessity  of  personal  correctness  of 
character  on  the  part  of  those  in  authority,  in  order  to  secure  the 
right  fulfilment  of  the  duties  implied  in  them.  This  is  one  grand 
peculiarity  of  his  teaching.  I  have  adverted  to  it  in  the  review  of 
"The  Great  Learning,"  but  it  deserves  some  further  exhibition,  and 
there  are  three  conversations  with  the  chief  Ke  K'ang,  in  which  it 
is  very  expressly  set  forth.  "  Ke  K'ang  asked  about  government* 
and  Confucius  replied,  i  To  govern  means  to  rectify.  If  you  lead  on 
the  people  with  correctness,  who  will  dare  not  to  be  correct?' "  "  Ke 
K'ang,  distressed  about  the  number  of  thieves  in  the  State,  inquired 

105J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


ffeOLEOomuL]  CONFUCIU8  AKD  HI8  DI8CIPLB8.  [olt. 

of  Confucius  about  how  to  do  away  with  them.  Confucius  said,  4H 
you,  sir,  were  not  covetous,  though  you  should  reward  them  to  do 
it,  they  would  not  steal.' "  u  Ke  K4ang  asked  about  government,  say- 
ing, 4  What  do  You  say  to  killing  the  unprincipled  for  the  good 
of  the  principled?*  Confucius  replied,  'Sir,  in  carrying  on  your 
government,  why  should  you  use  killing  at  all  ?  Let  your  evinced 
desires  be  for  what  is  good,  and  the  people  will  be  good.  The 
relation  between  superiors  and  inferiors  is  like  that  between  the 
wind  and  the  grass.  The  grass  must  bend,  when  the  wind  blows 
across  it'  "a 

Example  is  not  so  powerful  as  Confucius  in  these  and  many  other 
passages  represented  it,  but  its  influence  is  very  great.  Its  virtue  is 
recognized  in  the  family,  and  it  is  demanded  in  the  church  of 
Christ.  "  A  bishop" — and  I  quote  the  term  with  the  simple  mean- 
ing of  overseer — "  must  be  blameless."  It  seems  to  me,  however, 
that  in  the  progress  of  society  in  the  West  we  have  come  to  think 
less  of  the  power  of  example  in  many  departments  of  State  than 
we  ought  to  do.  It  is  thought  of  too  little  in  the  army  and  the 
navy.  We  laugh  at  the  "self-denying  ordinance,"  and  the  "new 
model"  of  1644,  but  there  lay  beneath  them  the  principle  which 
Confucius  so  broadly  propounded, — the  Importance  of  personal 
virtue  in  all  who  are  in  authority.  Now  that  Great  Britain  is  the 
governing  power  over  the  masses  of  India,  and  that  we  are  coining 
more  and  more  into  contact  with  tens  of  thousands  of  the  Chinese, 
this  maxim  of  our  sage  is  deserving  of  serious  consideration  from 
all  who  bear  rule,  and  especially  from  those  on  whom  devolves  the 
conduct  of  affairs.  His  words  on  the  susceptibility  of  the  people  to 
be  acted  on  by  those  above  them  ought  not  to  prove  as  water  spilt 
on  the  ground. 

But  to  return  to  Confucius. — As  he  thus  lays  it  down  that  the 
mainspring  of  the  well-being  of  society  is  the  personal  character  of 
the  ruler,  we  look  anxiously  for  what  directions  he  has  given  for 
the  cultivation  of  that.  But  here  he  is  very  defective.  "  Self-adjust- 
ment and  purification,"  he  said,  "with  careful  regulation  of  his  dress, 
and  the  not  making  a  movement  contrary  to  the  rules  of  propriety; 
— this  is  the  way  for  the  ruler  to  cultivate  his  person."12  Thiswj 
laying  too  much  stress  on  what  is  external ;  but  even  to  attain  to  this 

11  Analects,  XII.  xvii. ;  xviii.  j  xix.  12  fJj  ||f ,  xx.  14. 

106] 


•■or.n.]  HI8  IOTLUEHCE  AtfD  OPINIONS,  [pmoleooxw*. 

is  beyond  unassisted  human  strength.  Confucius,  however,  never 
recognized  a  disturbance  of  the  moral  elements  in  the  constitution 
of  man.  The  people  would  move,  according  to  him,  to  the  virtue 
of  their  ruler  as  the  grass  bends  to  the  wind,  and  that  virtue  would 
come  to  the  ruler  at  his  call.  Many  were  the  lamentations  which 
he  uttered  over  the  degeneracy  of  his  times;  frequent  were  the 
confessions  which  he  made  of  his  own  shortcomings.  It  seems  strange 
that  it  never  came  distinctly  before  him,  that  there  is  a  power  of 
evil  in  the  prince  and  the  peasant,  which  no  efforts  of  their  own 
and  no  instructions  of  sages  are  effectual  to  subdue. 

The  government  which  Confucius  taught  was  a  despotism,  but  of 
a  modified  character.  He  allowed  no  "jus  divinum"  independent  of 
personal  virtue  and  a  benevolent  rule.  He  has  not  explicitly  stated, 
indeed,  wherein  lies  the  ground  of  the  great  relation  of  the  governor 
and  the  governed,  but  his  views  on  the  subject  were,  we  may  assume, 
in  accordance  with  the  language  of  the  Shoo-king : — "  Heaven  and 
Earth  are  the  parents  of  all  things,  and  of  all  things  men  are  tire 
most  intelligent.  The  man  among  them  most  distinguished  for  in- 
.telligence  becomes  chief  ruler,  and  ought  to  prove  himself  the  parent 
of  the  people."13  And  again,  "  Heaven,  protecting  the  inferior  people, 
has  constituted  for  them  rulers  and  teachers,  who  should  be  able  to 
be  assisting  to  God,  extending  favour  and  producing  tranquillity 
throughout  all  parts  of  the  empire."14  The  moment  the  ruler  ceases 
to  be  a  minister  of  God  for  good,  and  does  not  administer  a  government 
that  is  beneficial  to  the  people,  he  forfeits  the  title  by  which  he  holds 
the  throne,  and  perseverance  in  oppression  will  surely  lead  to  his 
overthrow.  Mencius  inculcated  this  principle  with  a  frequency  and 
boldness  which  are  remarkable.  It  was  one  of  the  things  about 
which  Confucius  did  not  like  to  talk.  Still  he  held  it.  It  is  con- 
spicuous in  the  last  chapter  of  "  The  Great  Learning."  Its  tendency 
has  been  to  check  the  violence  of  oppression,  and  maintain  the  self- 
respect  of  the  people,  all  along  the  course  of  Chinese  history. 

I  must  bring  these  observations  on  Confucius'  views  of  govern- 
ment to  a  close,  and  I  do  so  with  two  remarks.  First,  they  are 
adapted  to  a  primitive,  unsophisticated  state  of  society.  He  is  a  good 
counsellor  for  the  father  of  a  family,  the  chief  of  a  clan,  and  even 
the  head  of  a  small  principality.    But  his  views  want  the  comprehen- 

13,  U  See  the  Shoo-king,  V.  i.  Sect.  1. 2,  7. 

107J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


tkomoMmkjJ]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [«■.▼. 

sion  which  would  make  them  of  much  service  in  a  great  empire. 
Within  three  centuries  after  his  death,  the  government  of  China  pass- 
ed into  a  new  phase.  The  founder  of  the  Ts*in  dynasty  conceived  the 
grand  idea  of  abolishing  all  its  feudal  Kingdoms,  and  centralizing 
their  administration  in  himself.  He  effected  the  revolution,  and 
succeeding  dynasties  adopted  his  system,  and  gradually  moulded  it 
into  the  forms  and  proportions  which  are  now  existing.  There  has 
been  a  tendency  to  advance,  and  Confucius  has  all  along  been  trying 
to  carry  the  nation  back.  Principles  have  been  needed,  and  not 
"  proprieties."  The  consequence  is  that  China  has  increased  beyond 
its  ancient  dimensions,  while  there  has  been  no  corresponding 
development  of  thought.  Its  body  politic  has  the  size  of  giant,  while 
it  still  retains  the  mind  of  a  child.     Its  hoar}7  age  is  but  senility. 

Second,  Confucius  makes  no  provision  for  the  intercourse  of  his 
country  with  other  and  independent  nations.  He  knew  indeed  of 
none  such.  China  was  to  him  "The  middle  Kingdom/'15  "The 
multitude  of  Great  States,"16  "  All  under  heaven."17  Bevond  it  were 
only  rude  and  barbarous  tribes.  He  does  not  speak  of  them  bitterly, 
as  many  Chinese  have  done  since  his  time.  In  one  place  he  contrasts 
them  favourably  with  the  prevailing  anarchy  of  the  empire,  saying, 
"The  rude  tribes  of  the  east  and  north  have  their  princes,  and  are 
not  like  the  States  of  our  great  land  which  are  without  them."18 
Another  time,  disgusted  with  the  want  of  appreciation  which  he 
experienced,  he  was  expressing  his  intention  to  go  and  live  among 
the  nine  wild  tribes  of  the  east.  Some  one  said,  "  They  are  rude. 
How  can  you  do  such  a  thing?"  His  reply  was,  "  If  a  superior  man 
dwelt  among  them,  what  rudeness  would  there  be?"19  But  had  he 
been  an  emperor-sage,  he  would  not  only  have  influenced  them  by 
his  instructions,  but  brought  them  to  acknowledge  and  submit  to 
his  sway,  as  the  great  Yu  did.20  The  only  passage  of  Confucius' 
teachings  from  which  any  rule  can  be  gathered  for  dealing  with 
foreigners,  is  that  in  the  "Doctrine  of  the  Mean,"  where  "indulgent 
treatment  of  men  from  a  distance  "  is  laid  down  as  one  of  the  nine 
standard  rules  for  the  government  of  the  empire.21  But  "  the  men 
from  a  distance "  are  understood  to  be  pin  and  leu22  simply, — 
"guests,"  that  is,  or  officers  of  one  State  seeking  employment  in 

16  fjj  |g|.  16  U|  Jj ;  Ana.  HI.  v.  17  ^  ~[C  ;  passim.  18  Ana,  HI.  r. 

19  Ana.  DC.  ziii        20  ||£  jgg,  IIL  ii.  10 ;  et  al        21H£j^A'        ^SfM' 

J 


•■et-nj  HIS  INFLUENCE  AND  OPINIONS.  [fbolegombha. 

another,  or  at  the  imperial  court;  and  "visitors,"  or  travelling 
merchants.  Of  independent  nations  the  ancient  classics  have  not 
any  knowledge,  nor  has  Confucius.  So  long  as  merchants  from 
Europe  and  other  parts  of  the  world  could  have  been  content  to 
appear  in  China  as  suppliants,  seeking  the  privilege  of  trade,  so 
long  the  government  would  have  ranked  them  with  the  barbarous 
hordes  of  antiquity,  and  given  them  the  benefit  of  the  maxim 
about  "  indulgent  treatment,"  according  to  its  own  understanding 
of  it.  But  when  their  governments  interfered,  and  claimed  to  treat 
with  that  of  China  on  terms  of  equality,  and  that  their  subjects 
should  be  spoken  to  and  of  as  being  of  the  same  clay  with  the  Chinese 
themselves,  an  outrage  was  committed  on  tradition  and  prejudice, 
which  it  was  necessary  to  resent  with  vehemence. 

I  do  not  charge  the  contemptuous  arrogance  of  the  Chinese 
government  and  people  upon  Confucius ;  what  I  deplore,  is  that  he 
left  no  principles  on  record  to  check  the  development  of  such  a 
spirit.  His  simple  views  of  society  and  government  were  in  a  mea- 
sure sufficient  for  the  people  while  they  dwelt  apart  from  the  rest  of 
mankind.  His  practical  lessons  were  better  than  if  they  had  been  left, 
which  but  for  him  they  probably  would  have  been,  to  fall  a  prey  to 
the  influences  of  Taouism  and  Buddhism,  but  they  could  only  subsist 
while  they  were  left  alone.  Of  the  earth  earthy,  China  was  sure  to 
go  to  pieces  when  it  came  into  collision  with  a  Christianly-civilized 
power.  Its  sage  had  left  it  no  preservative  or  restorative  elements 
against  such  a  case. 

It  is  a  rude  awakening  from  its  complacency  of  centuries  which 
China  has  now  received.  Its  ancient  landmarks  are  swept  away. 
Opinions  will  differ  as  to  the  justice  or  injustice  of  the  grounds  on 
which  it  has  been  assailed,  and  I  do  not  feel  called  to  judge  or  to 
pronounce  here  concerning  them.  In  the  progress  of  events,  it  could 
not  be  but  that  the  collision  should  come;  and  when  it  did  come,  it  could 
not  be  but  that  China  should  be  broken  and  scattered.  Disorganiza- 
tion will  go  on  to  destroy  it  more  and  more,  and  yet  there  is  hope 
for  the  people,  with  their  veneration  of  the  relations  of  society,  with 
their  devotion  to  learning,  and  with  their  habits  of  industry  and 
sobriety ; — there  is  hope  for  them,  if  they  will  look  away  from  all 
their  ancient  sages,  and  turn  to  Him,  who  sends  them,  along  with 
the  dissolution  of  their  ancient  state,  the  knowledge  of  Himself,  the 
only  living  and  true  God,  and  of  Jesus  Christ  whom  He  hath  sent. 

J  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


MK>L*ooMiacA.]  CONFUCIUS   AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ea.i. 

8.  I  have  little  more  to  add  on  the  opinions  of  Confucius.  Many 
of  his  sayings  are  pithy,  and  display  much  knowledge  of  character; 
but  as  they  are  contained  in  the  body  of  the  Workr  I  will  not 
occupy  the  space  here  with  a  selection  of  those  which  have  struck 
myself  as  most  worthy  of  notice.  The  fourth  Book  of  the  Analects 
which  is  on  the  subject  of  jin,  or  perfect  virtue,  has  several  utter* 
ances  which  are  remarkable. 

Thornton  observes : — "  It  may  excite  surprise,  and  probably  in- 
credulity, to  state  that  the  golden  rule  of  our  Saviour,  l  Do  unto 
others  as  you  would  that  they  should  do  unto  you,'  which  Mr.  Locke 
designates  as  i  the  most  unshaken  rule  of  morality,  and  foundation 
of  all  social  virtue,'  had  been  inculcated  by  Confucius,  almost  in  the 
same  words,  four  centuries  before."1  I  have  taken  notice  of  this 
fact  in  reviewing  both  "The  Great  Learning,"  and  "The  Doctrine  of 
the  Mean."  I  would  be  far  from  grudging  a  tribute  of  admiration  to 
Confucius  for  it.  The  maxim  occurs  also  twice  in  the  Analects.  Ib 
Book  XV.  xxiii.,  Tsze-kung  asks  if  there  be  one  word  which  may 
serve  as  a  rule  of  practice  for  all  one's  life,  and  is  answered,  "  Is  not 
reciprocity  such  a  word  ?  What  you  do  not  want  done  to  yourself  cfo 
not  do  to  others."  The  same  disciple  appears  in  Book  V.  xi.,  telling 
Confucius  that  he  was  practising  the  lesson.  He  says,  "  What  I  do 
not  wish  men  to  do  to  me,  I  also  wish  not  to  do  to  men ; "  but  the 
master  tells  him,  "  Ts'ze,  you  have  not  attained  to  that."  It  would 
appear  from  this  reply,  that  he  was  aware  of  the  difficulty  of  obeying 
the  precept ;  and  it  is  not  found,  in  its  condensed  expression  at  least, 
in  the  older  classics.     The  merit  of  it  is  Confucius'  own. 

When  a  comparison,  however,  is  drawn  between  it  and  the  rule  laid 
down  by  Christ,  it  is  proper  to  call  attention  to  the  positive  form  of 
the  latter, — "All  things  whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  unto 
you,  do  ye  even  so  to  them."  The  lesson  of  the  gospel  commands 
men  to  do  what  they  feel  to  be  right  and  good.  It  requires  them  to 
commence  a  course  of  such  conduct,  without  regard  to  the  conduct 
of  others  to  themselves.  The  lesson  of  Confucius  only  forbids  men 
to  do  what  they  feel  to  be  wrong  and  hurtful.  So  far  as  the  point  of 
priority  is  concerned,  moreover,  Christ  adds,  "This  is  the  law  and 
the  prophets."  The  maxim  was  to  be  found  substantially  in  the 
earlier  revelations  of  God. 


1  History  of  China,  toL  L  p.  209. 

110] 


Digitized  by 


Google 


MCT.ii.]  HIS   INFLUENCE  AND  OPINIONS.  [pkolegomwca. 

But  the  worth  of  the  two  maxims  depends  on  the  intention  of 
the  enunciators  in  regard  to  their  application.  Confucius,  it  seems 
to  me,  did  not  think  of  the  reciprocity  coming  into  action  beyond 
the  circle  of  his  five  relations  of  society.  Possibly,  he  might  have 
required  its  observance  in  dealings  even  with  the  rude  tribes,  which 
were  the  only  specimens  of  mankind  besides  his  own  comtrymen  of 
which  he  knew  anything,  for  on  one  occasion,  when  asked  about  per- 
fect virtue,  he  replied,  "  It  is,  in  retirement,  to  be  sedately  grave ; 
in  the  management  of  business,  to  be  reverently  attentive ;  in  inter- 
course with  others,  to  be  strictly  sincere.  Though  a  man  go  among 
the  rude  uncultivated  tribes,  these  qualities  may  not  be  neglected."a 
Still,  Confucius  delivered  his  rule  to  his  countrj'men  only,  and  only 
for  their  guidance  in  their  relations  of  which  I  have  had  so  much 
occasion  to  speak.  The  rule  of  Christ  is  for  man  as  man,  having  to 
do  with  other  men,  all  with  himself  on  the  same  platform,  as  the 
children  and  subjects  of  the  one  God  and  Father  in  heaven. 

How  far  short  Confucius  came  of  the  standard  of  Christian  bene- 
volence, may  be  seen  from  his  remarks  when  asked  what  was  to  be 
thought  of  the  principle  that  injury  should  be  recompensed  with 
kindness.  He  replied,  "  With  what  then  will  you  recompense  kind- 
ness ?  Recompense  injury  with  justice,  and  recompense  kindness  with 
kindness."3  The  same  deliverance  is  given  in  one  of  the  Books  of 
the  Le  Ke,  where  he  adds  that  "he  who  recompenses  injury  with 
kindness  is  a  man  who  is  careful  of  his  person."4  Ch'ing  Heuen,  the 
commentator  of  the  second  century,  says  that  such  a  course  would  be 
"incorrect  in  point  of  propriety."5  This  " propriety  "  was  a  great 
stumbling-block  in  the  way  of  Confucius.  His  morality  was  the 
result  of  the  balancings  of  his  intellect,  fettered  by  the  decisions  of 
men  of  old,  and  not  the  gushings  of  a  loving  heart,  responsive  to 
the  promptings  of  Heaven,  and  in  sympathy  with  erring  and  feeble 
humanity. 

This  subject  leads  me  on  to  the  last  of  the  opinions  of  Confucius 
which  I  shall  make  the  subject  of  remark  in  this  place.  A  com- 
mentator observes,  with  reference  to  the  inquiry  about  recompensing 
injury  with  kindness,  that  the  questioner  was  asking  only  about 
trivial  matters,  which  might  be  dealt  with  in  the  way  he  mentioned, 

2  Analects,  XIII.  Tax.         3  Ana.  X&X.  xxxvi.         4  |j|  |g,  ^  g[*,  par.  12.         5  ffc 
1    J  Digitized  by  G00gk 


nouMOMBWA.]  CONFUCIUS  AND  RX6  BISCIPLB8.  [cb.*» 

while  great  offences  such  as  those  against  a  sovereign  or  a  father, 
could  not  be  dealt  with  by  such  an  inversion  of  the  principles  of 
justice.6  In  the  second  Book  of  the  Le  Ke  there  is  the  following 
passage: — "With  the  slayer  of  his  father,  a  man  may  not  live 
under  the  same  heaven ;  against  the  slayer  of  his  brother,  a  man 
must  never  have  to  go  home  to  fetch  a  weapon ;  with  the  slayer  of 
his  friend,  a  man  may  not  live  in  the  same  State."7  The  lex  tcdioni* 
is  here  laid  down  in  its  fullest  extent  The  Chow  Le  tells  us  of  a 
provision  made  against  the  evil  consequences  of  the  principle,  by  the 
appointment  of  a  minister  called  "The  Reconciler."8  The  provision 
is  very  inferior  to  the  cities  of  refuge  which  were  set  apart  by  Moses 
for  the  manslayer  to  flee  to  from  the  fury  of  the  avenger.  Such 
as  it  was,  however,  it  existed,  and  it  is  remarkable  that  Confucius, 
when  consulted  on  the  subject,  took  no  notice  of  it,  but  affirmed  the 
duty  of  blood-revenge  in  the  strongest  and  most  unrestricted  terms. 
His  disciple  Tsze-hea  asked  him,  "  What  course  is  to  be  pursued  in 
the  case  of  the  murder  of  a  father  or  mother?"  He  replied,  "The 
son  must  sleep  upon  a  matting  of  grass,  with  his  shield  for  his 
pillow ;  he  must  decline  to  take  office ;  he  must  not  live  under  the 
same  heaven  with  the  slayer.  When  he  meets  him  in  the  market- 
place or  the  court,  he  must  have  his  weapon  ready  to  strike  him." 
"And  what  is  the  course  on  the  murder  of  a  brother?"  "The  sur- 
viving brother  must  not  take  office  in  the  same  State  with  the  slayer ; 
yet  if  he  go  on  his  prince's  service  to  the  State  where  the  slayer  is, 
though  he  meet  him,  he  must  not  fight  with  him."  "And  what  is 
the  course  on  the  murder  of  an  uncle  or  a  cousin?"  "In  this  case 
the  nephew  or  cousin  is  not  the  principal.  If  the  principal  on  whom 
the  revenge  devolves  can  take  it,  he  has  only  to  stand  behind  with 
his  weapon  in  his  hand,  and  support  him."9 

Sir  John  Davis  has  rightly  called  attention  to  this  as  one  of  the 
objectionable  principles  of  Confucius.10  The  bad  effects  of  it  are 
evident  even  in  the  present  day.  Revenge  is  sweet  to  the  Chinese. 
I  have  spoken  of  their  readiness  to  submit  to  government,  and  wish 
to  live  in  peace,  yet  they  do  not  like  to  resign  even  to  government 
the  "  inquisition  for  blood."     Where  the  ruling  authority  is  feeble, 

6  See  note,  m  foe,  p.  152.  7  jjjf  |g,  I.  Pt.  I.  v.  10.  8  /|J  fR§>  4£  £ -p 

gg, pp.  14-18.  9JJllBpn.FtI.iLM.    Scealaothe^f*   ^  ^  ^  % 

^ .  10  The  Chinese,  vol  IL  p.  41. 


mj  IIIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLES.  [prolegomwia* 

as  it  16  at  present,  individuals  and  clans  take  the  law  into  their  own 
hands,  and  whole  districts  are  kept  in  a  state  of  constant  feud  and 
warfare. 

But  I  must  now  leave  the  sage.  I  hope  I  have  not  done  him 
injustice;  but  after  long  study  of  his  character  and  opinions,  I 
am  unable  to  regard  him  as  a  great  man.  He  was  not  before  his 
age,  though  he  was  above  the  mass  of  the  officers  and  scholars  of 
his  time.  He  threw  no  new  light  on  any  of  the  questions  which 
have  a  world-wide  interest.  He  gave  no  impulse  to  religion.  He 
had  no  sympathy  with  progress.  His  influence  has  been  wonderful, 
but  it  will  henceforth  wane.  My  opinion  is,  that  the  faith  of  the 
nation  in  him  will  speedily  and  extensively  pass  away. 

SECTION  III. 

HIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLES. 

Sze-ma  Ts'ecn  makes  Confucius  say : — "  The  disciples  who  received 
my  instructions,  and  could  comprehend  them,  were  seventy-seven 
individuals.  They  were  all  scholars  of  extraordinary  ability."1  The 
common  saying  is,  that  the  disciples  of  the  sage  were  three  thousand, 
while  among  them  there  were  seventy-two  worthies.  I  propose  to 
give  here  a  list  of  all  those  whose  names  have  come  down  to  us,  as 
being  his  followers.  Of  the  greater  number  it  will  be  seen  that  we 
know  nothing  more  than  their  names  and  surnames.  My  principal 
authorities  will  be  the  "  Historical  Records,"  the  "  Family  Sayings," 
"The  Sacrificial  Canon  for  the  Sage's  Temple,  with  Plates,"  and  the 
chapter  on  "The  Disciples  of  Confucius"  prefixed  to  the  "Four 
Books,  Text  and  Commentary,  with  Proofs  and  Illustrations."  In 
giving  a  few  notices  of  the  better-known  individuals,  I  will  endeavour 
to  avoid  what  may  be  gathered  from  the  Analects. 

1.  Yen  Hwuy,  by  designation  Tsze-yuen  (§f(  ||jj,  ^  -^  $$).  He 
was  a  native  of  Loo,  the  favourite  of  his  master,  whose  junior  he 
was  by  30  years,  and  whose  disciple  he  became  when  he  was  quite  a 
youth.  "  After  I  got  Hwuy,"  Confucius  remarked,  "  the  disciples 
came  closer  to  me."  We  are  told  that  once,  when  he  found  himself 
on  the  Nung  hill  with  Hwuy,  Tsze-loo,  and  Tsze-kung,  Confucius 

113J  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


jPBOutooMBMA ]  CONFUCIUS   AND  UIS  MSCIPLE8.  {ol%' 

asked  them  to  tell  him  their  different  aims,  and  he  would  choose 
between  them.  Tsze-loo  began,  and  when  he  had  done,  the  master 
said,  "It  marks  your  bravery."  Tsze-kung  followed,  on  whose 
words  the  judgment  was,  "They  show  your  discriminating  elo- 
quence." At  last  came  Yen  Yuen,  who  said,  "  I  should  like  to  find 
an  intelligent  king  and  sage  ruler  whom  I  might  assist.  I  would 
diffuse  among  the  people  instructions  on  the  five  great  points,  and 
lead  them  on  by  the  rules  of  propriety  and  music,  so  that  they 
should  not  care  to  fortify  their  cities  by  walls  and  moats,  but  would 
fuse  their  swords  and  spears  into  implements  of  agriculture.  They 
should  send  forth  their  flocks  without  fear  into  the  plains  and  foresta. 
There  should  be  no  sunderings  of  families,  no  widows  or  widowers. 
For  a  thousand  years  there  would  be  no  calamity  of  war.  Yew 
would  have  no  opportunity  to  display  his  bravery,  or  Ts'ze  to  display 
his  oratory."  The  master  pronounced,  "How  admirable  is  this 
virtue !" 

When  Hwuy  was  29,  his  hair  was  all  white,  and  in  three  years 
more  he  died.  He  was  sacrificed  to,  along  with  Confucius,  by  the 
first  emperor  of  the  Han  dynasty.  The  title  which  he  now  has  iu 
the  sacrificial  Canon, — "Continuator  of  the  Sage,"  was  conferred  in 
the  9th  year  of  the  emperor,  or,  to  speak  more  correctly,  of  the 
period,  Kea-tsing,  a.d.  1530.  Almost  all  the  present  sacrificial  titles 
of  the  worthies  in  the  temple  were  fixed  at  that  time.  Hwuy's  place 
is  the  first  of  the  four  Assessors,  on  the  east  of  the  sage.2 

2.  Min  Sun,  styled  Tsze-k'een,  (^  $,^  ^  $).  He  was  a 
native  of  Loo,  15  years  younger  than  Confucius,  according  to  See-ma 

2  I  have  referred  briefly,  at  p.  92,  to  the  temple*  of  Confucius.  The  principal  hall,  called  -^ 
J0G  R9[*  or  '  H*U  °f  ine  Great  and  Complete  One/  is  that  in  which  is  his  own  statue  or  the 
tablet  of  Ms  spirit,  having  on  each  side  of  it,  within  a  screen,  the  statues,  or  tablets,  of  his  '  four 
Assessors.'  On  the  east  and  west,  along  the  walls  of  the  same  apartment  are  the  two  BJ,  the 
places  of  the  *"{"*"""*- "jjijf*  or  ' twelve  Wise  Ones,*  those  of  his  disciples,  who,  next  to  the  *  Assessors,' 
are  counted  worthy  of  honour.  Outside  this  apartment,  and  running  in  a  line  with  the  two  IE, 
but  along  the  external  wall  of  the  sacred  inclosure,  are  the  two  fiffi,  or  side-galleries,  which  I  have 
sometimes  called  the  ranges  of  the  outer  court.  In  each  there  are  64  tablets  of  the  disciples  and 
other  worthies,  having  the  same  title,  as  the  Wise  Ones,  that  of  -jq  B,  or  'Ancient  Worthy/  or 
the  inferior  title  of  <fc  |||, '  Ancient  Scholar.*  Behind  the  principal  hall  is  the  ^  ^  Jfjj}  jg, 
sacred  to  Confucius'  ancestors,  whose  tablets  are  in  the  centre,  fronting  the  south,  like  that  of 
Confucius.  On  each  side  are  likewise  the  tablets  of  certain  'ancient  Worthies,'  and  'ancient 
Scholars.' 

114] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


*«*.  in.]  HIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLES.  [prolegomena. 

Ts'een,  but  50  years  younger,  according  to  the  "  Family  Sayings," 
which  latter  authority  is  followed  in  "The  Annals  of  the  Empire" 
When  he  first  came  to  Confucius,  we  are  told,  he  had  a  starved  look,* 
which  was  by-and-by  exchanged  for  one  of  fulness  and  satisfaction.* 
Tsze-kung  asked  him  how  the  change  had  come  about.  He  replied, 
"  I  came  from  the  midst  of  my  reeds  and  sedges  into  the  school  of  the 
master.  He  trained  my  mind  to  filial  piety,  and  set  before  me  the 
examples  of  the  ancient  kings.  I  felt  a  pleasure  in  his  instructions, 
but  when  I  went  abroad,  and  saw  the  people  in  authority,  with  their 
umbrellas  and  banners,  and  all  the  pomp  and  circumstance  of  their 
trains,  I  also  felt  pleasure  in  that  show.  These  two  things  assaulted 
each  other  in  my  breast.  I  could  not  determine  which  to  prefer, 
and  so  I  wore  that  look  of  distress.  But  now  the  lessons  of  our 
master  have  penetrated  deeply  into  my  mind.  My  progress  also  has 
been  helped  by  the  example  of  you  my  fellow-disciples.  I  now  know 
what  I  should  follow  and  what  I  should  avoid,  and  all  the  pomp  of 
power  is  no  more  to  noe  than  the  dust  of  the  ground.  It  is  on  this 
account  that  I  have  that  look  of  fulness  and  satisfaction."  Tsze-k'een 
was  high  in  Confucius'  esteem.  He  was  distinguished  for  his  purity 
and  filial  affection.  His  place  in  the  temple  is  the  first,  east,  among 
"The  Wise  Ones,"  immediately  after  the  four  assessors.  He  was  first 
sacrificed  to  along  with  Confucius,  as  is  to  be  understood  of  the 
other  "  Wise  Ones,"  excepting  in  the  case  of  Yew  J 5,  in  the  8th  year 
of  the  style  K'ae-yuen  of  the  sixth  emperor  of  the  T'ang  dynasty, 
a.d.  720.  His  title,  the  same  as  that  of  all  but  the  Assessors  is — 
"The  ancient  Worthy,  the  philosopher  Min." 

3.  Yen  King,  styled  Pih-new  (ft  ft  ¥  &  [a/.,  "g*]  4^).  He 
was  a  native  of  Loo,  and  Confucius'  junior  only  by  seven  years. 
When  Confucius  became  Minister  of  Crime,  he  appointed  Pih-new 
to  the  office,  which  he  had  himself  formerly  held,  of  commandant 
of  Chung-too.  His  tablet  is  now  fourth  among  "  The  Wise  Ones," 
on  the  west. 

4.  Yen  Yung,  styled  Chung^kung  (ft  fg,  ^  ft  e|).  He  was  of 
the  same  clan  as  Yen  Kang,  and  29  years  younger  than  Confucius. 
He  had  a  bad  father,  but  the  master  declared  that  was  not  to  be 
counted  to  him,  to  detract  from  his  admitted  excellence.  His  place 
is  among  "  The  Wise  Ones,"  the  second,  east. 


fftouEooxKHA/)  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [<&« 

5.  Yen  K'ew,  styled  Tsze-yew  (H  5&  ^  ^  ^).    He  was  related 

to  the  two  former,  and  of  the  same  age  as  Chung-kung.  He  was 
noted  among  the  disciples  for  his  versatile  ability  and  many  acquire- 
ments. Tsze-kung  said  of  him,  "  Respectful  to  the  old,  and  kind  to 
the  young;  attentive  to  guests  and  visitors ;  fond  of  learning  and  skill- 
ed in  many  arts ;  diligent  in  his  examination  of  tilings : — these  are 
what  belong  to  Yen  K'ew."  It  has  been  noted  in  the  life  of  Confucius 
that  it  was  by  the  influence  of  Tsze-yew  that  he  was  finally  restored 
to  Loo.  He  occupies  the  third  place,  west,  among  "The  Wise  ones.* 

6.  Chung  Yew,  styled  Tsze-loo  and  Ke-loo  (>fol  ^,  !$  ^  $g,  %  if* 
2|5  ]$£).  He  was  a  native  of  P'een  (-J;)  in  Loo,  and  only  9  years 
younger  than  Confucius.  At  their  first  interview,  the  master 
asked  him  what  he  was  fond  of,  and  he  replied,  "  My  long  sword." 
Confucius  said,  "  If  to  your  present  ability  there  were  added  the 
results  of  learning,  you  would  be  a  very  superior  man."  "  Of  what 
advantage  would  learning  be  to  me  ?  "  asked  Tsze-loo.  "  There  is  a 
bamboo  on  the  southern  hill,  which  is  straight  itself  without  being 
bent.  If  you  cut  it  down  and  use  it,  you  can  send  it  though  a  rhino- 
ceros' hide ; — what  is  the  use  of  learning  ?  "  "  Yes,"  said  the  master ; 
"  but  if  you  feather  it  and  point  it  with  steel,  will  it  not  penetrate 
more  deeply  ?  "  Tsze-loo  bowed  twice,  and  said,  "  I  will  reverently  re- 
ceive your  instructions."  Confucius  was  wont  to  say,  "  From  the 
time  that  I  got  Yew,  bad  words  no  more  came  to  my  ears."  For 
some  time  Tsze-loo  was  chief  magistrate  of  the  district  of  P'oo  tfM\ 
where  his  administration  commanded  the  warm  commendations  of 
the  master.  He  died  finally  in  Wei,  as  has  been  related  above,  p.  87. 
His  tablet  is  now  the  fourth,  east,  from  those  of  the  Assessors. 

7.  Tsae  Yu,  styled  Tsze-go  (^  -f*»  ^  ^F  f£).  He  was  a  native 
of  Loo,  but  nothing  is  mentioned  of  his  age.  He  had  "  a  sharp 
mouth,"  according  to  Sze-ma  Ts'een.  Once,  when  he  was  at  the 
court  of  Ts'oo  on  some  commission,  the  king  Ch'aou  offered  him  an 
easy  carriage  adorned  with  ivory  for  his  master.  Yu  replied,  "My 
master  is  a  man  who  would  rejoice  in  a  government  where  right 
principles  were  carried  out,  and  can  find  his  joy  in  himself  when  that  is 
not  the  case.  Now  right  principles  and  virtue  are  as  it  were  in  a 
state  of  slumber.  His  wish  is  to  rouse  and  put  them  in  motion. 
Could  he  find  a  prince  really  anxious  to  rule  according  to  them,  he 
would  walk  on  foot  to  his  court,  and  be  glad  to  do  so.     Why  need 

11G] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


jn.]  HIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLRS.  [pxombqoksva. 

iue  receive  such  a  valuable  gift  as  this  from  so  great  a  distance?" 
Confucius  commended  this  reply ;  but  where  he  is  mentioned  in  the 
Analects,  Tsze-go  does  not  appear  to  great  advantage.  He  took  ser- 
vice in  the  State  of  Ts'e,  and  was  chief  magistrate  of  Lin-tsze,  where 
he  joined  with  T'een  Chang  in  some  disorderly  movement,1  which 
led  to  the  destruction  of  his  kindred,  and  made  Confucius  ashamed 
of  him.    His  tablet  is  now  the  second,  west,  among  "  The  Wise  Ones." 

8.  Twan-muk  Ts'ze,  styled  Tsze-kung  (djg  ;fc  |§>  ^  ^  %  [a/.,  ^ 
W]\  whose  place  is  now  third,  east,  from  the  Assessors.  He  was  a 
native  of  Wei  (||f),  and  31  years  younger  than  Confucius.  He  had 
great  quickness  of  natural  ability,  and  appears  in  the  Analects  as 
one  of  the  most  forward  talkers  among  the  disciples.  Confucius 
used  to  say,  "  From  the  time  that  I  got  Ts'ze,  scholars  from  a  distance 
came  daily  resorting  to  me."  Several  instances  of  the  language 
which  he  used  to  express  his  admiration  of  the  master  have  been 
given  in  the  last  section.  Here  is  another : — The  duke  King  of  Ts'e 
asked  Tsze-kung  how  Chung-ne  was  to  be  ranked  as  a  sage.  "  I  do 
not  know,"  was  the  reply.  "  I  have  all  my  life  had  the  heaven  over 
my  head,  but  I  do  not  know  its  height,  and  the  earth  under  my  feet, 
but  I  do  not  know  its  thickness.  In  my  serving  of  Confucius,  I  am 
like  a  thirsty  man  who  goes  with  his  pitcher  to  the  river,  and  there 
he  drinks  his  fill,  without  knowing  the  river's  depth."  He  took  leave 
of  Confucius  to  become  commandant  of  Sin-yang  ('fg  ||r  ^),  when 
the  master  said  to  him,  "  In  dealing  with  your  subordinates*  there 
is  nothing  like  impartiality ;  and  when  wealth  comes  in  your  way, 
there  is  nothing  like  moderation.  Hold  fast  these  two  things,  and  do 
not  gwerve  from  them.  To  conceal  men's  excellence  is  to  obscure 
the  worthy;  and  to  proclaim  people's  wickedness  is  the  part  of  a 
mean  man.  To  speak  evil  of  those  whom  you  have  not  sought  the 
opportunity  to  instruct,  is  not  the  way  of  friendship  and  harmony." 
Subsequently  Tsze-kung  was  high  in  office  both  in. Loo  and  Wei, 
and  finally  died  in  Ts'e.  We  saw  how  he  was  in  attendance  on 
Confucius  at  the  time  of  the  sage's  death.  Many  of  the  disciples 
built  huts  near  the  master's  grave,  and  mourned  for  him  three  years, 
but  Tsze-kung  remained  sorrowing  alone  for  three  years  more. 

9.  Yen  Yenf  styled  Tsze-yew  ( =  {£,  ^  ^  $f),  now  the  4th  in 
the  western  range  of  "The  Wise  Ones."    He  was  a  native  of  Woo 

^EH^ftH     Sccabovcp.7. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


nowoorarA.]  COHFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES,  [ch.*. 

(j^),  45  years  younger  than  Confucius,  and  distinguished  for  his 
literary  acquirements.  Being  made  commandant  of  Woo-shing,  he 
transformed  the  character  of  the  people  by  "  proprieties  "  and  music, 
and  was  praised  by  the  master.  After  the  death  of  Confucius,  Ke 
K'ang  asked  Yen  how  that  event  had  made  no  sensation  in  Loo  like 
that  which  was  made  by  the  death  of  Tsze-ch'an,  when  the  men  laid 
aside  their  bowstring  rings  and  girdle  ornaments,  and  the  women 
laid  aside  their  pearls  and  ear-rings,  and  the  voice  of  weeping  was 
heard  in  the  lanes  for  three  months.  Yen  replied,  "The  influences 
of  Tsze-ch'an  and  my  master  might  be  compared  to  those  of  over- 
flowing water  and  the  fattening  rain.  Wherever  the  water  in  its 
overflow  reaches,  men  take  knowledge  of  it,  while  the  fattening  rain 
falls  unobserved." 

10.  Puh  Shang,  styled  Tsze-hea  (  \%  ft,  ^  ^  J[).  It  is  not 
certain  to  what  State  he  belonged,  his  birth  being  assigned  to  Wei 
(!&)>  *°  Wei  (8|),  and  to  Win  CjU).  He  was  45  years  younger 
than  Confucius,  and  lived  to  a  great  age,  for  we  find  him,  B.C.  406, 
at  the  court  of  the  prince  WSn  of  Wei  (|$|),  to  whom  he  gave  copies 
of  some  of  the  classical  Books.  He  is  represented  as  a  scholar  ex- 
tensively read  and  exact,  but  without  great  comprehension  of  mind. 
What  is  called  Maous  She-king  (%  f$)  *s  sa^  to  contain  the  views 
of  Tsae-hea.  Kungyang  Eaou  and  Kuh-l6ang  Ch'ih  are  also  said 
to  have  studied  the  Ch'un  Ts'ew  with  him.  On  the  occasion  of  the 
death  of  his  son  he  wept  himself  blind.  His  place  is  the  5th,  east, 
among  "The  Wise  Ones." 

11.  T wan-sun  Sze,  styled  Tsze-chang  (flfft  $&  $&>  ^  -jr  5Jt),  has 
his  tablet,  corresponding  to  that  of  the  preceding,  on  the  west.  He 
was  a  native  of  Ch'in  (gfc),  and  48  years  younger  than  Confucius. 
Tsze-kung  said,  "  Not  to  boast  of  his  admirable  merit ;  not  to  signify 
joy  on  account  of.  noble  station;  neither  insolent  nor  indolent? 
showing  no  pride  to  the  dependent : — these  are  the  characteristics  of 
Twan-sun  Sze."  When  he  was  sick,  he  called  Shin  Ts'eang  to  him, 
and  said,  "  We  speak  of  his  end  in  the  case  of  a  superior  man,  and  of 
his  death  in  the  case  of  a  mean  man.  May  I  think  that  it  is  going 
to  be  the  former  with  me  to-day?" 

12.  TsXng  Sin  [or  Ts'an],  styled  Tsze-yu  (H*#>  ^  ^  H,  [«/., 
^T  f*|]  )•  He  was  a  native  of  south  Woo-shing,  and  46  years  younger 
than  Confucius.     In  his  16th  year  he  was  sent  by  his  father  into 

118] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


poT.ni.]  HIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLE8.  [fbomwoimwa. 

Jk'oo,  where  Confucius  then  was,  to  learn  under  the  saga   Excepting 

jerhaps  Yen  Hwuy,  there  is  not  a  name  of  greater  note  in  the  Con- 

focian  school.     Tsze-kung  said  of  him,  "  There  is  no  subject  which  he 

Iks  not  studied.     His  appearance  is  respectful     His  virtue  is  solid. 

Sis  words  command  credence.     Before  great  men  he  draws  himself 

Up  ia  the  pride  of  self-respect   His  eyebrows  are  those  of  longevity." 

He  was  noted  for  his  filial  piety,  and  after  the  death  of  his  parents, 

jus  could  not  read  the  rites  of  mourning  without  being  led  to  think 

[rf  them,  and  moved  to  tears.     He  was  a  voluminous  writer.    Ten 

Books  of  his  composition  are  said  to  be  contained  in  the  "  Rites  of  the 

?lder  Tae"  C*C  J$«|).    The  classic  of  Filial  Piety  he  is  said  to 

liave  made  under  the  eye  of  Confucius.     On  his  connection  with 

"The  Great  Learning,"  see  above,  Ch.  m.  Sect  n.     He  was  first 

lesociated  with  the  sacrifices  to  Confucius  in  a.d.  668,  but  in  1267 

r 

|*e  was  advanced  to  be  one  of  the  sage's  four  Assessors.    His  title— 

"Exhibiter  of  the  Fundamental  Principles  of  the  Sage,"  dates  from 

the  period  of  Kea-tsing,  as  mentioned  in  speaking  of  Yen  Hwuy. 

13.  Tan-t'ae  MeS-ming,  styled  Tsze-yu  tfg  ft  $&  %  ^  ¥  #f). 
He  was  a  native  of  Woo-shing,  39  years  younger  than  Confucius, 
according  to  the  "Historical  Records,"  but  49,  according  to  the 
u  Family  Sayings."  He  was  excessively  ugly,  and  Confucius  thought 
Ueanly  of  his  talents  in  consequence,  on  his  first  application  to  him. 
After  completing  his  studies,  he  travelled  to  the  south  as  far  as  the 
Yang-tsze.  Traces  of  his  presence  in  that  part  of  the  country  are  still 
pointed  out  in  the  department  of  Soo-chow.  He  was  followed  by 
about  three  hundred  disciples,  to  whom  he  laid  down  rules  for  their 
guidance  in  their  intercourse  with  the  princes.  When  Confucius 
heard  of  his  success,  he  confessed  how  he  had  been  led  by  his  bad 
looks  to  misjudge  him.  He,  with  nearly  all  the  disciples  whose  names 
follow,  first  had  a  place  assigned  to  him  in  the  sacrifices  to  Confucius 
b  a.d.  739.  The  place  of  his  tablet  is  the  second,  east,  in  the  outer 
court,  beyond  that  of  the  "  Assessors  "  and  "  Wise  Ones." 

14.  Corresponding  to  the  preceding,  on  the  west,  is  the  tablet  of 
Fuk  Puh-ts'e,  styled  Tsze-tseen  ($&  [a/.,  |g  and  Jig,  all=ffc]  Jf>  ^ 
^^P8I)-  He  was  a  native  of  Loo,  and,  according  to  different 
accounts,  30,  40,  and  49  years  younger  than  Confucius.  He  was 
commandant  of  Tan-foo  ($i  $£  Sp?),  and  hardly  needed  to  put  forth 
wy  personal  effort    Wo-ma  K'e  had  been  in  the  same  office,  and 

119J  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


molboombca.]  GOffFUCIU8  AHD  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [«.*■. 

had  succeeded  by  dint  of  the  greatest  industry  and  toil  He  askedf 
Puh-ts'e  how  he  managed  so  easily  for  himself,  and  was  answeraL. 
"  I  employ  men ;  you  employ  men's  strength."  People  pronounced} 
Fuh  to  be  a  superior  man.  He  was  also  a  writer,  and  his  works  a*^ 
mentioned  in  Lew  Hin's  catalogue. 

15.  Next  to  that  of  Me£-ming  is  the  tablet  of  Yuen  Heen,  styleA- 
Tsze-sze  (]§J  j^»  ^  -f*  J@>)  a  native  of  Sung,  or,  according  to  Ching 
Heuen,  of  Lioo,  and  younger  than  Confucius  by  36  years.  He  wa* 
noted  for  his  purity  and  modesty,  and  for  his  happiness  in  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  master  amid  deep  poverty.  After  the  death  of  Confucius, 
he  lived  in  obscurity  in  Wei.  In  the  notes  to  Ana.  VL  iiL,  I  have 
referred  to  an  interview  which  he  had  with  Tsze-kung. 

16.  Kung-yay  Chang  [a/.,  Che],  styled  Tsze-Ch'ang  [a/.,  Tsze-che^ 
(^  #  ^  K,  £1  ^  ?  ^,  K,  ■¥■;£]),  has  his  tablet  next  to- 
that  of  Pih-ts'e.  He  was  son-in-law  to  Confucius.  His  nativity  k 
assigned  both  to  Loo  and  to  Ts'e. 

17.  Nan-kung  Kw5,  styled  Tsze-yung  ($f  g1  ffi  [at,  j^**^ 
in  the  "  Family  Sayings,"  $  (T'aou)  ],  ^  -^  #),  has  the  place  at 
the  east  next  to  Yuen  Heen.  It  is  a  question  much  debated  whether 
he  was  the  same  with  Nan-kung  King-shuh,  who  accompanied  Co»- 
fucius  to  the  court  of  Chow,  or  not.  On  occasion  of  a  fire  breaking 
out  in  the  palace  of  duke  Gae,  while  others  were  intent  on  securing 
the  contents  of  the  Treasury,  Nan-kung  directed  his  efforts  to  save 
the  Library,  and  to  him  was  owing  the  preservation  of  the  copy  of 
the  Chow  Le  which  was  in  Loo,  and  other  ancient  monuments. 

18.  Kung-seih  Gae,  styled  Ke-ts'ze  [a/.,  Ke-ch'in]  (4V  Hf  M'^  ^r 
^K  [a'>  2p tft] )•  His  tablet  follows  that  of  Kung-yay.  He  was  a  na- 
tive of  Loo,  or  of  Ts'e.  Confucius  commended  him  for  refusing  to 
take  office  with  any  of  the  Families  which  were  encroaching  on  the 
authority  of  the  princes  of  the  States,  and  for  choosing  to  endure  the 
severest  poverty  rather  than  sacrifice  a  tittle  of  his  principles. 

19.  Tsing  Teen,  styled  Seih  (^  jg$  [a/.,  {ftj)  ^  |f  ).  He  was  the 
father  of  Ts&ng  Ts'an.  His  place  in  the  temples  is  the  hall  to  Con- 
fucius' ancestors,  where  his  tablet  is  the  first,  west. 

20.  Yen  Woo-yaou,  styled  Loo  (MM&^&iy  He  was  the 
father  of  Yen  Hwuy,  younger  than  Confucius  by  six  years.  His 
sacrificial  place  is  the  first,  east,  in  the  same  hall  as  the  last. 

21.  Following  the  tablet  of  Nan-kung  Kw5  is  that  of  Shang  Ken, 

*  Digitized  by  GoOgle 


■cr.mo  tits  Immediate  irtscrfLEs.  [riwucao***!. 

rtyled  Tsze-iiitiK  (flgf  ||,  ^  ^  ^C).     to  him*  it  is  said,  we  are  in* 
febted  for  the  preservation  of  the  Yih-king,  which  he  received  from 
Confucius;     Its  transmission  Step  by  step,  from  Keu  down  to  the  ■ 
Ian  dynasty,  is  minutely  set  forth. 

22.  Next  to  Kung-seih  Gae  is  the  place  of  Kddti  Ch'ae,  styled 
Tsze-kaou  and  Ke^kaou  (^f  £fei  ^  ^r  $&,  [al^  ££$&  ;  for  j&  moreover, 
re  find  Jfl,  and  §|])j  a  native  of  Ts^  according  to  the  "Family 
Sayings,"  but  of  Wei,  according  to  Sze*ma  Ts'een  and  Ch'ing  Heuen. 
He  was  30  (sortie  say  40)  years  younger  than  Confucius,  dwarfish 
ind  ugly,  but  of  great  worth  and  ability;  At  one  time  he  was 
criminal  judge  of  Wei*  and  in  the  execution  of  his  office  condemned 
a  prisoner  to  lose  his  feet;  Afterwards  that  same  man  saved  his 
life,  when  he  wds  flying  frchti  the  State.  Confucius  praised  Ch'ae 
for  being  able  to  administer  stern  justice  1rith  such  a  spirit  of 
benevolence  as  to  disartn  resentment. 

23.  Shang  Keu  is  followed  by  Tseih-teaou  K'ae  [prop.  K'e],  styled 
W-k'ae,  Tsze^jo,  and  Tsze-sew  (&  #£  $|  [pr.  ®],  ^  ^  gg,  ^  & 
and  "^fjf),  a  native  of  Ts'ae  (|^),  oi*,  ace.  to  Heuen,  of  Loo;  We 
only  know  him  as  a  deader  of  the  Shoo-king,  and  refusing  to  go  into 
office. 

24.  Kung^ih  Leaou,  styled  Tsze-ehow  (4V  j$  fl£,  ^  ^  Jg);  He 
appears  in  the  Analects  XIV.  xxxiii.,  slandering  Tsze-loo.  It  is 
doubtful  whether  he  should  have  a  place  among  the  disciples* 

25.  Sze-ma  King,  styled  Tsze-new  (f?J  J&  ffi,  ^r^f*^)*  follows 
tseih-teaou  K'ae.  He  was  a  great  talker,  a  native  of  Sung,  and  * 
brother  of  Hlvan  T'uy,  to  escape  from  whom  seems  to  have  been  the 
labour  of  his  life. 

26.  The  place  next  Kaou  Ch'ae  Is  occupied  by  Fan  Seti,  styled 
Tsze-ch'e  (|$  £g,  ^  Jp  $g),  a  native  of  Ts'e,  or,  ace.  to  others,  of 
Loo,  and  whose  age  is  given  as  36  of  46  years  younger  than  Con- 
fucius* When  young,  he  distinguished  himself  in  a  military  com- 
mand tinder  the  Ke  family. 

27.  Yew  Jo,  styled  Tsze-jo  (^  #,  ^  ^p  %).  He  was  a  native 
of  Loo,  and  his  age  is  stated  very  variously-  He  was  noted  among 
the  disciples  for  his  great  memory  and  fondness  for  antiquity*  After 
the  death  of  Confucius,  the  rest  of  the  disciples,  because  of  the 
likeness  of  Jo's  voice  to  the  Master  s,  wished  to  render  the  same 
ofeervances  to  him  which  they  had  done  to  Confucius,  but  ou 

12    J  Digitized  by  GoOgk 


froleoojieha.]  CONFUCIUS   AND   HIS   DISCIPLES.  [ch.y. 

T.<&ng  Sin's  demurring  to  the  thing,  they  abandoned  the  purpose. 
The  tablet  of  Tsze-jo  is  now  the  6th,  enst,  among  "The  Wise  Ones," 
to  which  place  it  was  promoted'  in  the  3d  year  of  K4een-lung  of  the 
present  dynasty.  This  was  done  in  compliance  with  a  memorial 
from  the  president  of  one  of  the  Boards,  who  said  he  was  moved  by  a 
dream  to  make  the  request.  We  may  suppose  that  his  real  motives 
were — a  wish  to  do  justice  to  the  merits  of  Tsze*j5,  and  to  restore 
the  symmetry  of  the  tablets  in  the  "  Hall  of  the  Great  and  Complete 
One,"  which  had  been  disturbed  by  the  introduction  of  the  tablet  of 
Choo  He  in  the  preceding  reign. 

28.  Kung-se  Ch'ih,  styled  Tsze-hwa  ($►  B§  #>  ^^r  ^1),  ana- 
tive  of  Loo,  younger  than  Confucius  by  42  years,  whose  place  is 
the  4th,  west,  in  the  outer  court.  He  was  noted  for  his  knowledge 
of  ceremonies,  and  the  other  disciples  devolved  on  him  all  the 
arrangements  about  the  funeral  of  the  Master. 

29.  Woo-ma  She  [or  K'e],  styled  Tsze-K'e  (  M  J!§  t&  [  <  M  ]# 
-f*$$  [a/.,  "iP$l]),  a  native  of  Ch4in,  or,  ace.  to  Ch'ing  Heuen, 
of  Loo,  30  years  younger  than  Confucius.  His  tablet  is  on  the 
east,  next  to  that  of  Sze-ma  K&ng.  It  is  related  that  on  one 
occasion,  when  Confucius  was  about  to  set  out  with  a  company  of 
the  disciples  on  a  walk  or  journey,  he  told  them  to  take  umbrellas. 
They  met  with  a  heavy  shower,  and  Woo-ma  asked  him,  saying, 
"There  were  no  clouds  in  the  morning,  but  after  the  sun  had  risen, 
you  told  us  to  take  umbrellas.  How  did  you  know  that  it  would 
rain?"  Confucius  said,  "The  moon  last  evening  was  in  the 
constellation  Peih,  and  is  it  not  said  in  the  She-king,  'When  the 
moon  is  in  Peih,  there  will  be  heavy  rain  ? '  It  was  thus  1  knew 
it." 

30.  Leang  Chen  [a/.,  Lc],  styled  Shuh-yu  (8Sfi[aZ.  M]  ^  # 
^|),  occupies  the  eighth  place,  west,  among  the  tablets  of  the  outer 
court.  He  was  a  man  of  Ts'e,  and  his  age  is  stated  as  29  and  39 
years  younger  than  Confucius.  The  following  story  is  told  in  con- 
nection with  him. — When  he  was  thirty,  being  disappointed  that  he 
had  no  son,  he  was  minded  to  put  away  his  wife.  "  Do  not  do  so," 
said  Shang  Keu  to  him.  "  I  was  38  before  1  had  a  son,  and  my  mother 
was  then  about  to  take  another  wife  for  me,  when  the  Master  pro- 
posed sending  me  to  Ts'e.  My  mother  was  unwilling  that  1  should 
go,  but  Coufucius  said,  4  Don't  be  anxious.     Keu  will  have  five  sous 


-* 


*ct  in.]  HIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLES.  [prolegomena, 

after  he  is  forty.'  It  has  turned  out  so,  and  I  apprehend  it  is  your 
fault,  and  not  your  wife's,  that  you  have  no  son  yet."  Chen  took 
this  advice,  and  in  the  second  year  after,  he  had  a  son. 

31.  Yen  Hing  [a/.,  Sin,  Lew,  and  Wei],  styled  Tsze-le\v(g|  ^  [al  ^ 
$P,  and  JjL],  ^  -f*  $p),  occupies  the  place,  east,  after  Woo-nia  She. 
He  was  a  native  of  Loo,  and  46  years  younger  than  Confucius. 

32.  Leang  Chen  is  followed  on  the  west  by  Yen  Joo,  styled  Tsze- 
Loo  [a/.,  Tsze-tsang  and  Tsze-yu]  (#  H|  [a/.,  ji]  ^  ^  #  [a/.,  ^  ^ 
•ud-^-^l]),  a  native  of  Loo,  and  50  years  younger  than  Confucius. 

33.  Yen  Hing  is  followed  on  the  east  by  Ts'aou  Seuh,  styled 
T&ze-seun  ("f|f  iijl  ^  -^r  ||),  a  native  of  Ts'ae,  50  years  younger 
than  Confucius. 

34  Next  on  the  west  is  Pih  K'een,  styled  Tsze-seih,  or,  in  the 
current  copies  of  the  u  Family  Sayings,"  Tsze-k4eae  (\$\  f£*  ^  -jF*  U 
[nlf  ^  $f]  or  -jF*  fH*  ),  a  native  of  Loo,  50  years  younger  than  Con- 
fucius. 

35.  Following  Tsze-seun  is  Kung-sun  Lung  [a/.,  ChSing],  styled 
Tszcsshih  (^  %  g|  [al  H],  ^  -^p  jfi  )  whose  birth  is  assigned  by 
different  writers  to  Wei,  Ts'oo,  and  Chaou  (^§).  He  was  53  years 
younger  than  Confucius.  We  have  the  following  account: — "Tsze- 
kung  asked  Tsze-shih,  saying,  '  Have  you  not  studied  the  Book  of 
Poetry?'  Tsze-shih  replied,  'What  leisure  have  I  to  do  so?  My 
parents  require  me  to  be  filial ;  my  brothers  require  me  to  be  sub- 
missive; and  my  friends  require  me  to  be  sincere.  What  leisure 
iaye  I  for  anything  else?'  ^Come  to  my  Master,'  said  Tsze-kung, 
'and  learn  of  him.'" 

Sze-ma  Ts'een  here  observes : — "  Of  the  thirty-five  disciples  which 
precede,  we  have  some  details.  Their  age  and  other  particulars 
we  found  in  the  Books  and  Records.  It  is  not  so>  however,  in 
regard  to  the  fifty-two  which  follow." 

36.  Yen  Ke,  styled  Tsze-ch'an  [al.  Ke-ch'an  and  Tsze-ta],  (£}• 
^>^  ~f~  ||r  [fl£  ^  lit  and  ~P  )lt]  )>  a  native  of  Loo  whose  place 
is  the  eleventh,  west,  next  to  Pih  K4een. 

37.  Kung-tsoo  Kow-tsze  or  simply  Tsze,  styled  Tsze-che  (4^ 
ft  ^J  &  [°r  simply  j£],  ^  -Jr  ^),  a  native  of  Loo.  His  tablet  is 
the  23d,  east,  in  the  outer  court. 

38.  Ts'in  Tsoo,  styled  Tsze-nan  ($$M'^rTlM)>  a  nat^e  o* 
TaSn.    His  tablet  precedes  that  of  the  last,  two  places. 

123;] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


mouMOMBiA.]  COWFUOIUS  AND  HIS  DI8CIFLRS.  [<&« 

39.  Tseih-teaou  Ch'e,  styled  Tsze-leen  (^Bl^[a/.,  &],$ 
^T  $&  )»  a  nfttive  of  Loo,     His  tablet  is  the  13th,  west 

40.  Yen  Kaou,  styled  Tsze-Keaou  (8@7f5  ^-jF^)-  Acc01 
ing  to  the  A*  Family  Sayings/'  he  was  the  same  as  if  en  KHh  (^  oi 
jjifc)  who  drove  the  carriage,  when  Confucius  rode  in  Wei  after  ti 
duke  and  $Tan?tsze.  But  this  seems  doubtful.  Other  authoriti 
jnake  his  name  Chcan  (g|),  and  style  hhn  Tsze-tsing  (-^p  j|J|). 
tablet  is  the  13th,  east. 

41.  Tseih-teaou  Too-foo  [a/,.  Ts'ung],  styled  Tsze^yew,  Tsze-M 
^ndTsze.w^n],^^tt^K^l^^^or^^[a/.,^^j 
and-^p  "£])  a  native  of  Loo,  whose  tablet  precedes  tl*at  of  Tseik 
teaou  Ch4e. 

42.  Jang  Sze-ch'ih,  styled  Tsae-tfoo,  or  Tsze-tshing  (j£  [a/.  ^0 
Wl  5^»  ^  *3P  3£  [^  T*  4£] )>  *  native  of  TVin.  Some  consider 
Jang-sze  (  i£  QH  )  to  be  a  double  surname.  His  tablet  comes  after 
that  of  No.  40. 

43.  Shang  Tsih,  styled  Tszerke  find  Tsze-sew  ($f  j^l^*?^ 
[a/.,  -^r  2^] ),  *  natiye  of  Loo.  His  tablet  is  immediately  after  that 
of  Fan  Seu,  No.  26. 

44.  Shih  Ts5  \pi^  Che  $nd  TszeJ-shuh,  styled  Tsze-mfng  $J  ffl 
[a/.,  £  and  fl-  &  ^  ^p  ^).  Some  take  Shih-tso  (^  ff )  as  d 
double  surname.     His  tablet  follows  that  of  No.  42. 

45.  Jin  Puh-ts'e,  styled  Seuen  (ft  ^  ^£,  ^  jg),  a  native  of  Ts'wj 
vhose  tablet  is  next  to  that  of  No.  28. 

46.  Kung  Leang  Joo,  styled  Tsze-ching  (4V  HUt  l/^-i  fl£l  4s  T 
jE),  a  native  of  Ch'in,  follows  the  preceding  in  the  temples.  The 
t4  Sacrificial  C^non  n  says : — "  Tsze-ching  was  a  man  of  worth  and 
bravery.  When  Confucius  was  surrounded  and  stopt  in  P'oo,  Tsze 
ching  fought  so  desperately,  that  the  people  of  P'oo  were  afraid,  and 
Jet  the  Master  go,  on  his  swearing  that  he  would  not  proceed  to  Wei. 

47.  How  [a/.,  Shih]  Ch'oo  [a/.,  K'^en],  styled  Tsze-le  [a/.,  Le-che}! 

(B  [<  5]  J^  C<*.  Al  *  ¥  M  [<  ft  £]  )>  *  ™tive  °f  ^ 

having  his  tablet  the  17th,  east. 

48.  Ts'in  Yen,  styled  K'ae  (f£#^  Pj),  a  native  of  Ts<ae.  He 
is  not  given  in  the  list  of  the  "  Family  Sayings,"  and  on  this  account 
his  tablet  was  put  out  of  the  temples  in  the  9th  year  of  Kea-tsing. 
It  was  restored,  however,  in  the  second  year  of  Yung-ching,  AA 
1 724,  and  is  the  thirty-third,  east,  in  the  outer  court. 

-  Digitized  by  GoOgk  j 


.m.]  HIS  IMMEDIATE  PISCIPLES.  [fholeooiowa. 

|49.  Kung-hea  Show,  styled  Shing  [and  Tsze-shing],  (^Htl  [d-, 

H  ^r  ffe  [and  "jF*  ffc]  )>  a  native  of  Loo,  whose  tablet  is  next  that 

tNo.  44. 

50.  He  Yung-teen  [or  simply  Teen,]  styled  Tsze-seih  [a/.,  Tsze- 
and  Tsze-k'eae],  (^  #  J£  C«  Ml  ¥  ¥  W  K,  ^  #  and 

i  $£])>  a  native  of  Wei,  having  his  tablet  the  18th,  east. 

|||51.  Kung  Keen-ting  [a/.,  Kung  Yew],  styled  Tsze-chung  (£  Jf| 

*,  £]  £  [a/.,  ^  ^fj  ^  -y-  #,  [a/.,  #,  and  &] ).    His  nativity 
»  assigned  to  Loo,  to  Wei,  and  to  Tsin  (ff ).    He  follows  No.  46. 
|!  52.  Yen  Tsoo  [a/.,  Seang],  styled  Seang,  and  Tsze-seang  (|3|  jffl. 
A  #1  4s  §l>  and  ^J"  H)>  »  native  of  Loo,  with  his  tablet  follow- 
ing that  of  No.  50. 

i  53.  Heaou  Tan  [a/.,  Woo],  styled  Tsze-kea  (£J)  JgL  [a/.,  g|l],  3* 
X  «f:),  a  native  of  Loo.     His  place  is  next  to  that  of  No.  51. 

54.  Keu  [a/.,  Kow]  Tsing-keang  [and  simply  Tsing]  styled  Tsze- 
keang  [a/.,  Tsze-keae  and  Tsze-mang],  (ftf  [a/.,  4$J  and  $J]  #  $5 
^.d  simply  ^1  ^  ^  H  [<  ^F  H,  and  ^F- 30 ),  a  native  of  Wei, 
following  No.  52. 

55.  Han  [a/.,  Tsae]-foo  Hih,  styled  Tsze-hih  [a/.,  Tsze-s5  and  Tsze- 
■»1  C¥  [<  ^]^I4fH  C<  ^  ^  and  ^  JIB),  a  native 
of  Loo,  whose  tablet  is  next  to  that  of  No.  53. 

56.  Ts'in  Shang,  styled  Tsze-p'ei  [a/.,  P'ei-tsze,  and  Puh-tsze],  (fgi 
ft*  ^  ^  3l  [a^>  2E  j£>  and  ^S  $G),  a  native  of  Loo,  or,  accord- 
ing to  Ch'ing  Heuen,  of  Ts'oo.  He  was  40  years  younger  than 
Confucius.  One  authority,  however,  says  he  was  only  4  years 
jrounger,  and  that  his  father  and  Confucius'  father  were  both  cele- 
brated for  their  strength.    His  tablet  is  the  12th,  east. 

57.  Shin  Tang,  styled  Chow  (ff*$^J|l).  In  the  "Family 
Sayings"  there  is  a  Shin  Tseih,  styled  Tsze-chow  (^  jj||>  ^  -f*ffl)- 
The  name  is  given  by  others  as  T'ang  ( j{£  and  HI),  and  Tsuh  (|j|), 
*ith  the  designation  Tsze-tsuh  ("^Hj).  These  are  probably  the 
same  person  mentioned  in  the  Analects  as  Shin  Ch'ang  (^  |g). 
Prior  to  the  Ming  dynasty  they  were  sacrificed  to  as  two,  but  in  a.d. 
1530,  the  name  of  Tang  was  expunged  from  the  sacrificial  list, 
and  only  that  of  Ch'ang  left.     His  tablet  is  the  31st,  east. 

58.  Yen  Che-puh,  styled  Tsze-shuh  [or  simply  Shuh],  (gg  £  |g, 
^i^4fc  [or  simply  #]),  a  native  of  Loo,  who  occupies  the  29th 
place,  east. 

125] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


pkouwombwa.]  CONFUCIUS  AND   HIS  DISCIPLES.  [en.  r,  | 

59.  Yung  K'e,  styled  Tsze-k'e  [a/.,  Tsze-yen],  (%ffi  [or  §ft  ^ 
^^or-jp$g,[a/.,  ^rjg]),  a  native  of  Loo,  whose  tablet  is  the 
20th,  west. 

60.  Heen  Shing,  styled  Tsze-k'e  [al,  Tsze4iwang]r  (Jg|  fa  ^^Wk 
[al,  -j^^ff]),  a  native  of  Loo.     His  place  is  the  22d,  east. 

61.  Tso  Jin-ying,  [or  simply  Ying],  styled  Hing  and  Tsze-hing 
(£  A  Stf  [or  simply  £fl],  ^  ff  and  -^r  ff  ),  a  native  of  Loo.  His 
tablet  follows  that  of  No.  59. 

62.  Yen  Keih,  styled  Yin  [a/,  Tsze-sze],  tffcfc  [or  Jft],  ^$ 
[a/.,  -jr  J@L],  a  native  of  Ts'in.     His  tablet  is  the  24th,  east. 

63.  Ch'ingKwo,  styled  Tsze-t'oo  (||5g^iF^),  a  native  of 
Loo.  This  is  understood  to  be  the  same  with  the  See  Pang,  styled 
Tsze-ts'ung  (g£  %  ^  ^  $£),  of  the  "  Family  Sayings."  His  tablet 
follows  No.  61. 

64.  Ts'in  Fei,  styled  Tsze-che  (^  j^>  ^  -^  ^),  a  native*  of  Loo, 
having  his  tablet  the  31st,  west. 

65.  She  Che-chang,  styled  Tsze-hang  [a/.,  chang],  j{£  £  ^,  ^ 
■^p|£[a/.,  ^),  a  native  of  Loo.     His  tablet  is  the  30th,  east. 

66.  Yen  K'wae,  styled  Tsze-shing,  ($B  Pf,  ^  iP  |j*),  a  native 
of  Loo.     His  tablet  is  the  next  to  that  of  No.  64. 

67.  Poo  Shuh-shing,  styled  Tsze-keu  ($?&%  [in  the  "Family 
Sayings  "  we  have  fff ,  an  old  form  of  fj|],  ^  -^r  Ifl),  a  native  of 
Ts4e.  Sometimes  for  Poo  (^)  we  find  Shaou  (^).  His  tablet  is 
the  30th,  west. 

68.  Yuen  K'ang,  styled  Tsze-tseih  (]g  %,  ^  ^  $g),  a  native  of 
Loo.  Sze-ma  Ts'een  calls  him  Yuen  K'ang-tseih,  not  mentioning 
any  designation.  The  "  Family  Sayings "  makes  him  Yuen  K'ang 
(*J5t)>  styled  Tseih.     His  tablet  is  the  23d,  west. 

69.  Y5  Kae  [a/.,  Hin],  styled  Tsze-shing,  (H£fc  [a/.,  Jjfc],  ^  ^ 
3^),  a  native  of  Loo.     His  tablet  is  the  25th,  east. 

70.  Leen  Kee,  styled  Yung  and  Tsze-yung  [a/.,  Tsze-ts'aou], 
<H  M<  ¥  H  and  ^  0  [a/.,  ^  f  ]  ),  a  native  of  Wei,  or  of  Ts'e. 
His  tablet  is  next  to  that  of  No.  68. 

71.  Shuh-chung  Hwuy  [a/.,  K'wae],  styled  Tsze-k'e  (JgLJfy  &  [a/., 
p^],  ^  -jF*  J§j),  a  native  of  Loo,  or,  according  to  Ch'ing  Heuen* 
of  Tsin.  He  was  younger  than  Confucius  by  54  years.  It  ia  said 
that  he  and  another  youth,  called  K'ung  Seuen  QfL  Jjaj),  attended  by 
turns  with  their  pencils,  and  acted  as  amanuenses  to  the  sage,  and 

12(5] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


sett.  ui.J  HIS  IMMEDIATE  DISCIPLES.  [prolegomena. 

when  Mang  Woo-pih  expressed  a  doubt  of  their  competency,  Con- 
fucius declared  his  satisfaction  with  them.  He  follows  Leen  Kee  in 
the  temples. 

72.  Yen  Ho,  styled  Yen  (gg  %  ^  H),  a  native  of  Loo.  The 
present  copies  of  the  "  Family  Sayings  "  do  not  contain  this  name, 
and  in  a.d.  1588  Yen  was  displaced  from  his  place  in  the  temples. 
His  tablet,  however,  has  been  restored  during  the  present  dynasty. 
It  is  the  33d,  west. 

73.  Teih  Hih,  styled  ChS  [a/.,  Tsze-che  and  ChS-che]  ($  |g,  ^ 
^  [a/.,  -^p  %  and  @  £] ),  a  native  of  Wei,  or  of  Loo.  His  tablet 
is  the  26th,  east. 

74.  Kwei  [a/.,  Pang]  Sun,  styled  Tsze-leen  [a/.,  Tsze-yin]  (^J  [a/., 
$]  H>  ^  ^T  &  [<  ¥  flfe] ),  a  native  of  Loo.  His  tablet  is  the 
27th,  west. 

75.  K'ung  Chung,  styled  Tsze-mee  (?l  j&»  ^  ^p  M)-  This  was 
the  son,  it  is  said,  of  Confucius'  elder  brother,  the  cripple  M&ng-p'e. 
His  tablet  is  next  to  that  of  No.  73.  His  sacrificial  title  is  "The 
ancient  Worthy,  the  philosopher  Mee." 

76.  Kung-se  Yu-joo  [a/.,  Yu],  styled  Tsze-shang  (^^$^jttt[alj 
|?  ^  -^p   h),  a  native  of  Loo.     His  place  is  the  26th,  west. 

77.  Kung-se  Teen,  styled  Tsze-shang  (£>  SS  M  [or  SftJ  4s  ¥  -t 
[a/.,  -^r  f^] ),  a  native  of  Loo.     His  tablet  is  the  28th,  east. 

78.  Kin  Chang  [a/.,  Laou],  styled  Tsze-k'ae  (^gi[a/.,  ^],  ^^ 
Pif ),  a  native  of  Wei.     His  tablet  is  the  29th,  west. 

79.  Ch'in  K'ang,  styled  Tsze-k'ang  [a/.,  Tsze-k'in]  (£$ %,  ^  ^ % 
[a/.,  -^p  jj^] ),  a  native  of  Ch'in.     See  notes  on  Ana.  I.  x. 

80.  Heen  T'an  [a/.,  T'an-foo,  and  Fung],  styled  Tsze-seang  (|$  ^ 
W-i  fi  3£>  and  81:1  -J*  "J1  ^]  )>  a  native  of  Loo.  Some  suppose  that 
this  is  the  same  as  No.  53.  The  advisers  of  the  present  dynasty  in 
such  matters,  however,  have  considered  them  to  be  diiFerent,  and  in 
1724,  a  tablet  was  assigned  to  Heen  Tan,  the  34th,  west. 

The  three  preceding  names  are  given  in  the  "  Family  Sayings." 
The  research  of  scholars  has  added  about  twenty  others. 

81.  Lin  Fang,  styled  Tsze-k4ew  ($£  $C>  ^  -jr  £|$),  a  native  of 
Loo.  The  only  thing  known  of  him  is  from  the  Ana.  III.  iv.  His 
tablet  was  displaced  under  the  Ming,  but  has  been  restored  by  the 
present,  dynasty.     It  is  the  first,  west. 

82.  lveu  Yuen,  styled  Pih-yuh  (^  §|.  ^  f&  3£)>  an  officer  of 

J  -  Digitized  by  GoOgk 


raoLSGOMSHA  ]  CONFUCIUS  AND  HIS  DISCIPLES.  [ca.* 

Wei,  and,  as  appears  from  the  Analects  and  Mencius,  an  intimate 
friend  of  Confucius.  Still  bis  tablet  has  shared  the  same  changed 
as  that  of  Lin  Fang.     It  is  now  the  first,  east. 

83.  and  84.  Shin  Ch'ang  («£>feg),  and  Shin  T'ang  (ff*  jg).  See 
No.  57. 

85.  Muh  Pei  (4fc|£),  mentioned  by  Mencius,  VII,  Pt.  II.  xxxvii. 
4.  His  entrance  into  the  temple  has  been  under  the  present 
dynasty.     His  tablet  is  the  34th,  east 

86.  Tso-k'ew  Ming  or  Tso  K'ew-ming  (£  j£  $)}  has  the  32<* 
place,  east.  His  title  was  fixed  in  A.D.  1530  to  be — "The  Ancient 
Scholar,"  but  in  1642  it  was  raised  to  that  of  "  Ancieirt  Worthy." 
To  him  we  owe  the  most  distinguished  of  the  annotated  editions  of 
the  Ch'un  Ts'ew.  But  whether  he  really  was  a  disciple  of  Confuciusy 
and  in  presonal  communication  with  him,  is  much  debated. 

The  above  are  the  only  names  and  surnames  of  those  of  the 
disciples  who  now  share  in  the  sacrifices  to  the  sage.  Those  whty 
wish  to  exhaust  the  subject,  mention  in  addition,  on  the  authority 
of  Tso-k'ew  Ming,  Chung-sun  Ho-ke  (^  -8&  fa  jft)>  a  8on  °^ 
M&ng  He  (see  p,  63),  and  Chung-sun  Shw5  (^  43&  |ft)>  ak°  *  8°° 
of  M&ng  He,  supposed  by  many  to  be  the  same  with  No.  17 ;  Joe 
Pei,  (Df;  |fe),  mentioned  in  the  Analects  XVII.  xx.,  and  in  the  Le 
Ke,  XVIII.  Pt.  II.  ii.  21 ;  Kung-wang  Che-k'ew  (&  f$  ^  g|)  and 
Tseu  Teen  (^  Hfi),  mentioned  in  the  Le  Ke,  XLI.  7 ;  Pin-mow  Keaf 
(H  ^  J|),  mentioned  in  the  Le  Ke,  XVII.  iil  16 ;  K'ung  Seuen 
(*5L  ffl)  an(*  Hwuy  Shuh-lan  (J|  &  g|),  on  the  authority  of  the 
Family  Sayings;  Chang  Ke  (^  2|5),  mentioned  by  Chwang-tsze; 
Ketih  Yu  ($|J  f^),  mentioned  by  Gan-tsze  (^-^r);  Leen-yu  (H 
^f|),  and  Loo  Tseun  (§  l|£),  on  the  authority  of  J%  ^  %j  i?  ;  and 
finaUy  Tsze-fuk  Ho  (-J-  $  fa),  the  Tsze-fuk  King-pih  (^  jft^^> 
of  the  Analects,  XIV.  xxxviiL 


128] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


M.n.]  WORKS  CONSULTED.  wlolbgo*eka,J 


CHAPTER  VI. 

LTST  OF  THE  PRINCIPAL  WORKS  WHICH  HAVE  BEEN 
CONSULTED  IN  THE  PREPARATION  OF  THIS  VOLUME, 


SECTION  I. 

CHINESE   WOBKS,  WITH  BRIEF  NOTICES, 

+  H$?it£jj^,  "The  Thirteen  King,  with  Commentary  and 
Explanations/'  This  is  the  great  repertory  of  ancient  lore  upon 
the  Classics.  On  the  Analects,  it  contains  the  "  Collection  of  Ex» 
planations  of  the  Lun  Yu,"  by  Ho  An  and  others  (see  p.  19),  and 
4kThe  Correct  Meaning,"  or  Paraphrase  of  Hing  Ping  (see  p.  20), 
On  the  Great  Learning  and  the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,  it  contains  the 
comments  and  glosses  of  Ch'ing  Heuen,  and  K'ung  Ying-t&  (^rL 
Hj||)  of  the  Tcang  dynasty. 

ff^Jtt^l^ff  Wtfa  "A  ™w  edition  of  the  Four  Books, 
Punctuated  and  Annotated,  for  Reading."  This  work  was  published 
in  the  7th  year  of  T'aou-kwang  (1827)  by  a  Kaou  Lin  (^tffr).  ft 
is  the  finest  edition  of  the  Four  Books  which  I  have  seen,  in  point 
of  typographical  execution,  It  is  indeed  a  volume  for  reading.  It 
contains  the  ordinary  "Collected  Comments"  of  Choo  He  on  the 
Analects,  and  his  "Chapters  and  Sentences"  of  the  Great  Learning 
and  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,  The  editor's  own  notes  are  at  the  top 
and  bottom  of  the  page,  in  rubric, 

H#^^#lllii#,  "The  Proper  Meaning  of  the  Four 
Books  as  determined  by  Choo  He,  Compared  with,  and  Illustrated 
from,  other  Commentators."  This  is  a  most  voluminous  work,  pub* 
lished  in  the  tenth  year  of  K'een»lung,  a.d,  1745,  by  Wang  Poo* 
ts'ing  (f  d$?  fjf  )y  a  member  of  the  Hamlin  College,  On  the  Great 
Learning  and  the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean,  the  "Queries"  (^  $])  of 
Choo  He  are  given  in  the  same  text  as  the  standard  commentary. 

P3frH£i±^lff?,  "The  F°ur  Books,  Text  and  Commentary, 
with  Proofs  and  Illustrations."  The  copy  of  this  Work  which  I 
have  was  edited  by  a  Wang  T'ing-ke  (£E  ££$&),  ia  the  3d  year  of 

J  20] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


[f-ROLKOOMn*.  WORKS    CONSULTED.  [<*ty 

Kea-k'ing,  a.j>.  1708.  It  may  bo  called  a  commentary  on  the  com- 
mentary. The  research  in  all  matters  of  Geography,  History, 
Biography,  Natural  History,  Ac,  is  immense. 

1^3  Hf  IS  136  $5  ¥»  "^  Collection  of  the  most  important  Com- 
ments of  Scholars  on  the  Four  Hooks."  By  Le  P'ei-lin  (^£jjti  Un- 
published in  the  57th  year  of  K'ang-lie,  a.d.  1718.  This  Work  & 
about  as  voluminous  as  the  ($1  |fc,  but  on  a  different  plan.  Evert 
chapter  is  preceded  by  a  critical  discussion  of  its  general  meaniug, 
and  the  logical  connection  of  its  several  paragraphs.  This  is  followed 
by  the  text,  and  Choo  He's  standard  commentary.  We  have  then  a 
paraphrase,  full  and  generally  perspicuous.  Next,  there  is  a  selection 
of  approved  comments,  from  a  great  variety  of  authors;  and  finally, 
the  reader  finds  a  number  of  critical  remarks  and  ingenious  vie^ 
differing  often  from  the  common  interpretation,  which  are  submit- 
ted for  his  examination. 

P3  If  H  it  Nfl  jfc  "  A  Supplemental  Commentary,  and  Literary 
Discussions,  on  the  Four  Books."  By  Chang  K'een-t(aou[<i/.,T'eilu 
gan]  ($|  3s|  [$  [a/.,  %  %£] ),  a  member  of  the  Han-lin  college,  in 
the  early  part,  apparently,  of  the  reign  of  K'cen-lung.  The  work  w 
on  a  peculiar  plan.  The  reader  is  supposed  to  be  acquainted  vitk 
Choo  He's  commentary,  which  is  not  given ;  but  the  author  generally 
supports  his  views,  and  defends  them  against  the  criticisms  of  souw 
of  the  early  scholars  of  this  dynasty.  His  own  exercitations  are  ol 
the  nature  of  essays  more  than  of  commentary.  It  Is  a  book  for  the 
student  who  is  somewhat  advanced,  rather  than  for  the  learner. 
I  have  often  perused  it  with  interest  and  advantage. 

VM  I^Mt&'n  Mi  "  The  F°ur  tt(>°ks,  according  to  the  Commentary, 
with  Paraphrase/'  Published  in  the  8th  year  of  Yung  Ching,  a.i^ 
1730,  by  Ung  Fuh  [<//.,  K'ih-foo]  (jfo  ^  [>/.,  %  ^] ).  Every  p«g<( 
is  divided  into  two  parts.  Below,  we  have  the  text  and  Choo  HH 
commentary.  Above,  we  have  an  analysis  of  every  chapter,  folj 
lowed  by  a  paraphrase  of  the  several  paragraphs.  To  the  paraphra^ 
of  each  paragraph  are  subjoined  critical  notes,  digested  from  i 
great  variety  of  scholars,  but  without  the  mention  of  their  nairn^ 
A  list  of  116  is  given  who  are  thus  laid  under  contribution.  1^ 
addition,  there  are  maps  and  illustrative  figures  at  the  commence 
meiit;  and  to  each  Book  there  are  prefixed  biographical  notice^! 
explanations  of  peculiar  allusions,  i£c. 

130] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


mot  ij  CHINESE    WOUKS   WITH   BRIEF   NOTICES.  phousgomrxa.] 

*r  *t  0  #  SI  St  fff"  #  H  f=f\  "  T,ie  Four  Book*>  ™th  a  com- 
plete  Digest  of  Supplements  to  the  Commentary,  and  additional 

Suggestions.     A  new  edition,  with    Additions."     By  Too  Ting-ke 

<tt  ££  S).     Published   a.d.   1779.     The  original"  of  this  Work 

was  by  T'ang  Lin  (^1  ^fc),  a  scholar  of  the  Ming  dynasty.     It  is 

perhaps  the  best  of  all  editions  of  the  Four  Books  for  a  learner. 

Kach  page  is  divided  into  three  parts.    Below,  is  the  text  divided 

into  sentences  and  members  of  sentences,   which   are  followed  by 

short  glosses.     The  text  is  followed  by  the  usual  commentary,  and 

that  by  a  paraphrase,  to  which  are  subjoined  the  Supplements  and 

Suggestions.      The   middle  division  contains  a  critical  analysis  of 

the  chapters  and  paragraphs;  and  above,  there  are  the  necessary 

biographical  and  other  notes. 

P9  if^fc^^,  "The  Four  Books,  with  the  Relish  of  the  Radi- 
cal Meaning."  This  is  a  new  Work,  published  in  1852.  It  is  the 
production  of  Kin  Ch'ing,  styled  Ts'ew-t'an  (&i^.^;RftP),  an 
officer  and  scholar,  who,  returning,  apparently  to  Canton  province, 
from  the  North  in  1836,  occupied  his  retirement  with  reviewing  his 
literary  studies  of  former  years,  and  employed  his  sons  to  transcribe 
his  notes.  The  writer  is  fully  up  in  all  the  commentaries  on  the 
classics,  and  pays  particular  attention  to  the  labours  of  the  scholars 
of  the  present  dynasty.  To  the  Analects,  for  instance,  there  is  prefix- 
ed Keang  Yung's  History  of  Confucius,  with  criticisms  on  it  by 
the  author  himself.  Each  chapter  is  preceded  by  a  critical  analysis. 
Then  follows  the  text  with  the  standard  commentary,  carefully 
divided  into  sentences,  often  with  glosses,  original  and  selected, 
between  them.  To  the  commentary  there  succeeds  a  paraphrase, 
which  is  not  copied  by  the  author  from  those  of  his  predecessors. 
After  the  paraphrase  we  have  Explanations  ($$).  The  Book  is 
beautifully  printed,  and  in  small  type,  so  that  it  is  really  a  multum 
in  parvo,  with  considerable  freshness. 

0  §H  iff  13}  1H  $$,  "  A  Paraphrase  for  Daily  Lessons,  Explaining 
the  Meaning  of  the  Four  Books."  This  work  was  produced  in  1677,  by 
a  multitude  of  the  members  of  the  Han-lin  college,  in  obedience  to  an 
Imperial  rescript.    The  paraphrase  is  full,  perspicuous,  and  elegant. 

_tt*ffi4tf*<  ft  ftftlfc  £&$«#&*$>* 

iSi^^'^^^l&fl^ ^H'     These  works  form  together  a  superb 
edition  of  the  Five  King,  published  by  imperial  authority  iu  the 

131] 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


ttnoLioottKNA*  WORKS  CONSULTED*  [e*.n» 

deigns  of  K'ang-he  and  his  successor,  Yung-ching,  They  contain 
the  standard  views  (ffi)  ;  various  opinions  (§&)  ;  critical  decisions  of 
the  editors  ( J^)  ;  prolegomena ;  plates  or  cuts ;  and  other  apparatus 
for  the  student. 

%  ffi  ffi  jt  ££3I>  "The  Collected  Writings  of  Maou  Se-ho/1 
See  prolegomena,  p.  20.  The  voluminousness  of  his  Writings  is 
Understated  there.  Of  $£  3K,  or  Writings  on  the  Classics,  there  are 
236  sections,  while  his  ;)£^|,  or  other  literary  compositions,  amount 
to  257  sections.  His  treatises  on  the  Great  Learning  and  the  Doc- 
trine of  the  Mean  have  heen  especially  helpful  to  me.  He  is  a  great 
opponent  of  Choo  He,  and  would  be  a  much  more  effective  one,  if 
he  possessed  the  same  graces  of  style  as  that  "prince  of  literature." 
j/t}  ^  ^  $fc  |£,  u  A  collection  of  Supplemental  Observations  on 
the  Four  Books."  The  preface  of  the  author,  Ts'aou  Che-shing 
("fff  £  ^f*),  is  dated  in  1795,  the  last  year  of  the  reigu  of 
K'een^lung.  The  work  contains  what  we  may  call  prolegomena  on 
each  of  the  Four  Books,  and  then  excursus  on  the  most  difficult  and 
disputed  passages^  The  tone  is  moderate,  and  the  learning  displayed? 
extensive  and  solid.  The  views  of  Choo  He  are  frequently  well  de- 
fended from  the  assaults  of  Maou  Se-ho.  I  have  found  the  Work  very 
instructive. 

M  H  HI  #>  "  0n  tlie  Teilth  Book  of  tlle  Analects,  with  Plates." 
This  Work  was  published  by  the  author,  Keang  Yung  (/X  /J<),  in 
the  21st  year  of  K'eendung,  a.d.  1761,  when  he  was  76  years  old. 
It  is  devoted  to  the  illustration  of  the  above  portion  of  the  Analects, 
and  is  divided  into  ten  Sections,  the  first  of  which  consists  of  wood- 
cuts and  tables.  The  second  contains  the  Life  of  Confucius,  of  which 
I  have  largely  availed  myself  in  the  last  Chapter.  The  whole  is  a 
remarkable  specimen  of  the  minute  care  with  which  Chinese  scholars 
have  illustrated  the  Classical  Books. 

jp|.  We  may  call  these  volumes- — "The  Topography  of  the  Four 
Books;  with  three  Supplements."  The  Author's  name  is  Yen  Jo-keu 
{Wi  3~T  1$i)>  ^ie  first  volume  was  published  in  1698,  and  the  secoud 
in  1700.  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  the  dates  of  publication  of 
the  other  two,  in  which  there  is  more  biographical  and  general 
matter  than  topographical.  The  author  apologizes  for  the  inap* 
propriateness  of  their  titles  by  saying  that  he  could  not  help  calling 
them  Supplements  to  the  Topography,  which  was  his  "  first  love." 

13 -]  Digitized  by  G00gle 


.i.]  CHINESE   WORKS  WITH  BMEF  NOTICES.  fkolboomeha. 

M^^^?)  " Explanations  of  the  Classics,  uncfrr  the  Imperial 
dynasty  of  Ts^ing/'  See  above,  p.  20.  The  Work,  however,  was 
not  published,  as  I  have  there  supposed,  by  Imperial  authority,  but 
under  the  superintendence,  and  at  the  expense  (aided  by  other 
officers),  of  Yuen  Yuen  ($t  7C)>  Governor-general  of  K'wang-tung 
and  K'wang-se,  in  the  9th  year  of  the  last  reign,  1829.  The  publica- 
tion of  so  extensive  a  Work  shows  a  public  spirit  and  zeal  for 
literature  among  the  high  officers  of  China,  which  should  keep 
foreigners  from  thinking  meanly  of  them. 

^L-jr^C^f-,  "Family  Sayings  of  Confucius."  Family  is  to  be 
taken  in  the  sense  of  Sect  or  School.  In  Lew  Hin's  Catalogue,  in  the 
subdivision  devoted  to  the  Lun  Yu,  we  find  the  entry : — "  Family 
Sayings  of  Confucius,  27  Books,"  with  a  note  by  Yen  Sze-koo  of  the 
T'ang  dynasty,—"  Not  the  existing  Work  called  the  Family  Sayings." 
The  original  Work  was  among  the  treasures  found  in  the  wall  of  Con- 
fucius' old  house,  and  was  deciphered  and  edited  by  K'ung  Gan-kwo. 
The  present  Work  is  by  Wang-suh  of  the  Wei  (|J|)  dynasty, 
grounded  professedly  on  the  older  one,  the  blocks  of  which  had 
suffered  great  dilapidation  during  the  intervening  centuries.  It  is 
allowed  also,  that,  since  Suh's  time,  the  Work  has  suffered  more  than 
any  of  the  acknowledged  Classics.  Yet  it  is  a  very  valuable  frag- 
ment of  antiquity,  and  it  would  be  worth  while  to  incorporate  it 
with  the  Analects.  My  copy  is  the  edition  of  Le  Yung  (^^), 
published  in  1780. 

MMM&ffl%i  "Sacrificial  Canon  of  the  Sage's  Temples, 
with  Plates."  This  Work,  published  in  1826,  by  Koo  Yuen,  styled 
Seang-chow  (||j  ^  ^  #8  ft),  is  a  very  pains-taking  account  of  all 
the  Names  sacrificed  to  in  the  temples  of  Confucius,  the  dates  of  their 
attaining  to  that  honour,  &c.  There  are  appended  to  it  Memoirs  of 
Confucius  and  Mencius,  which  are  not  of  so  much  value. 

+  ¥  £  §>  "  The  complete  Works  of  the  Ten  Tsze?  See  Mor- 
rison's Dictionary,  under  the  character  ^\  I  have  only  had  occasion, 
in  connection  with  this  Work,  to  refer  to  the  writings  of  Chwang-tsze 
(jUi-jr)  and  LeS-tsze  (^|]  -f*).     My  copy  is  an  edition  of  1804. 

M  ft  £  %  #1  iK  ^  &H'  "  A  Cyclopaedia  of  Surnames,  or 
Biographical  Dictionary,  of  the  Famous  Men  and  Virtuous  Women 
of  the  successive  Dynasties."  This  is  a  very  notable  work  of  its  class ; 
published  in  1793,  by  ^^%j^,  and  extending  through  157  chapters 
or  Books. 


[prolegomena.  WORKS  CONSULTED.  [ch.  tl 

3>£  JSfc  M  ^?>  "  General  Examination  of  Records  and  Scholars." 
This  astonishing  Work,  which  cost  its  author,  Ma  Twan-lin  (B&  ^ 
|j$g),  twenty  years' labour,  was  first  published  in  1321.  Remusat 
says — "This  excellent  Work  is  a  library  in  itself,  and  if  Chinese 
literature  possessed  no  other,  the  language  would  be  worth  learning 
for  the  sake  of  reading  this  alone."  It  does  indeed  display  all  but 
incredible  research  into  every  subject  connected  with  the  Govern- 
ment, History,  Literature,  Religion,  &c,  of  the  empire  of  China.  The 
author's  researches  are  digested  in  348  Books.  I  have  had  occa- 
sion to  consult  principally  those  on  the  Literary  Monuments,  em- 
braced in  76  Books,  from  the  174th  to  the  249th. 

HI  3C  J8fc  a®  %*'  "  A  Continuation  of  the  General  Examination  of 
Records  and  Scholars."  This  Work,  which  is  in  254  Books,  and 
nearly  as  extensive  as  the  former,  was  the  production  of  Wang  K'e 
(3E  #f)>  who  dates  his  preface  in  1586,  the  14th  year  of  Wan-leih, 
the  style  of  the  reign  of  the  14th  emperor  of  the  Ming  dynasty.  Wang 
K'e  brings  down  the  Work  of  his  predecessor  to  his  own  times.  He 
also  frequently  goes  over  the  same  ground,  and  puts  things  in  a 
clearer  light.  I  have  found  this  to  be  the  case  in  the  chapters  on  the 
classical  and  other  Books. 

Zl'f'zHjfr  "The  twenty-three  Histories."  These  are  the  im- 
perially-authorized records  of  the  empire,  commencing  with  the 
"Historical  Records,"  the  work  of  Sze-ma  Ts'een,  and  ending  with 
the  History  of  the  Ming  dynasty,  which  appeared  in  1742,  the 
result  of  the  joint  labours  of  145  officers  and  scholars  of  the  present 
dynasty.  The  extent  of  the  collection  may  be  understood  from 
this,  that  my  cop)',  bound  in  English  fashion,  makes  fifty-tive 
volumes,  each  one  larger  than  this.  No  nation  has  a  history  so 
thoroughly  digested;  and  on  the  whole  it  is  trustworthy.  h\  pre- 
paring this  volume,  my  necessities  have  been  confined  mostly  to  the 
Works  of  Sze-ma  Ts'een,  and  his  successor,  Pan  Koo  (lj±  |6]),  the 
Historian  of  the  first  Han  dynasty. 

B£  Vt  %k  IB  ft>  "  The  Annals  of  the  Empire."  Published  by  im- 
perial authority  in  1803,  the  8th  year  of  Kea-k'ing.  This  Work  is 
invaluable  to  a  student,  being,  indeed,  a  collection  of  chronological 
tables,  where  every  year  from  the  rise  of  the  Chow  dynasty,  B.C. 
1121,  has  a  distinct  column  to  itself,  in  which,  indifferent  com- 
partments, the  most  important  events  are  noted.    Beyond  that  date, 

°    -I  Digitized  by  G00gle 


mct.  ii.]  TRANSLATIONS  AND   OTHER   WORKS.  fbolbgomkka  ] 

it  ascends  to  the  commencement  of  the  cycles  in  the  61st  year  of 
Hwang-te,  giving-not  every  year,  but  the  years  of  which  any 
thing  has  been  mentioned  in  history.  From  Hwang-te  also,  it 
ascends  through  the  dateless  ages  up  to  P'wan-koo,  the  first  of 
mortals. 

18  f  t  §fl  ^  ?t>  "  The  Boundaries  of  the  Empire  in  the  successive 
Dynasties."  This  Work  by  the  same  author,  and  published  in  1817, 
does  for  the  boundaries  of  the  empire  the  same  service  which  the 
preceding  renders  to  its  chronology. 


SECTION  II. 

TRANSLATIONS   AND   OTHER   WORKS. 

Confucius  Sinarum  Philosophus  ;  sive  Scientia  Sinensis  Latine 
Exposita.  Studio  et  opera  Prosperi  Intorcetta,  Christiani  Herdritch, 
Francisci  Rougemont,  Philippi  Couplet,  Patrum  Societatis  Jesu. 
Jussu  Ludovici  Magni.     Parisiis :  MDCLxxxvii. 

The  Works  of  Confucius;  containing  the  Original  Text,  with  a 
Translation.     Vol.1.     By  J.  Marshman.     Serampore:  1809. 

The  Four  Books,  Translated  into  English,  by  Rev.  David  Collie, 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society.     Malacca:  1828. 

L' Invariable  Milieu,  Ouvrage  Moral  de  Tseu-sse,  en  Chinois  et 
en  Mandchbu,  avec  une  Version  litterale  Latine,  une  Traduction 
Fran^oise,  &c,  &c.     Par  M.  Abel-Rdmusat.     A  Paris:  1817. 

Le  Ta  Hio,  ou  La  Grande  Etudk:  Traduit  en  Francis,  avec 
une  Version  Latine,  &c.     Par  G.  Pauthier.     Paris:  1837. 

Y-King,  Antiquissimus  Sinarum  Liber,  quern  ex  Latina  Inter- 
prctatione  P.  Regis,  aliorumque  ex  Soc.  Jesu  PP.  edidit  Julius 
Mohl.     1839:  Stuttgarthe  et  Tubing®. 

Mkmoires  concernant  L'Histoire,  Les  Sciences,  Les  Arts,  Les 
Mo?urs,  Les  Usages,  &c,  des  Chinois.  Par  les  Missionnaires  de 
Pekin.     A  Paris:  1776—1814. 

Histoike  Generale  dk  La  Chine;  ou  Annales  de  cet  Empire, 
Traduites  du  Tong-Kien-Kang-Mou.  Par  le  feu  Pere  Joseph-Annie- 
Maric  de  Moyriac  de  Mailla,  Jesuite  Francois,  Missionnaire  a  Pekin. 
A  Pari* :   1776—1785. 

J  Digitized  by  G00gle 


[prolegomena.  WORKS   CNSULTED.  [cilti, 

Notitia  Linguje  Sikicje.  Auctore  P.  Premare.  Malacca? :  cura 
Academiae  Anglo-Sinensis.     MDecexxxi. 

The  Chinese  Repository.  Canton,  China.  20  vols.  1832— 
1851. 

Dictionnaire  des  Noms,  Anciens  et  Modernes,  des  Villes  et  Arron* 
dissements  de  Premier,  Deuxieme,  et  Troisieme  ordre,  compris  dans 
L'Empire  Chinois,  &c.  Par  Edouard  Biot,  Meinbre  du  Conseil  de  la 
Societe  Asiatique.     Paris:  1842. 

The  Chinese.  By  John  Francis  Davis,  Esq.,  F.R.S.,  &c.  In  two 
volumes.     London:  1836. 

China  :  its  State  and  Prospeets.  By  W.  H.  Medhurst,  D.D.,  of 
the  London  Missionary  Society.     London :    1838. 

L'Univers  :  Histoire  et  Description  des  tous  les  Peuples.  Chine, 
Par  M.  G.  Pauthier.     Paris  :  1838. 

History  of  China,  from  the  earliest  Records  to  the  Treaty  with 
Great  Britain  in  1842.  By  Thomas  Thornton,  Esq.,  Member  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society.     In  two  volumes.     London  :  1844. 

The  Middle  Kingdom  :  A  Survey  of  the  Geography,  Government, 
Education,  Social  Life,  Arts,  Religion,  &c,  of  the  Chinese  Empire, 
By  S.  Wells  Williams,  LL.D.  In  two  volumes.  New  York  and 
London:  1848. 

The  Religious  Condition  of  the  Chinese.  By  Rev.  Joseph 
Edkins,  B.  A.,  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.     London:  1859. 

Christ  and  other  Masters.  By  Charles  Hardwick,  M.A, 
Christian  Advocate  in  the  University  of  Cambridge.  Part  III, 
Religions  of  China,  America,  and  Oceanica.     Cambridge:  1858, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


BOOK  I.  HEO  URH. 


=f-  %  *„#  ±.m  =f*%  m 
^  ^b  ^  i^f- 

Chapter  I.     1.  The  Master  said,  "  Is  it  not  pleasant  to  learn 
with  a  constant  perseverance  and  application? 

2.  "Is  it  not  pleasant  to  have  friends  coming  from  distant 
quarters? 

3,  "  Is  he  not  a  man  of  complete  virtue,  who  feels  no  discompo- 
sure though  men  may  take  no  note  of  him?" 

Tnu  o»  the  work.— jf£j  ffi,  'Discourses 
and  Dialogue* ; '  that  is,  the  discourses  or  dis- 
cussions of  Confucius  with  hia  disciples  and 
others  on  varioua  topics,  and  hia  replies  to  their 
inquiries.  Many  chapters,  however,  and  one 
whole  book,  are  the  sayings,  not  of  the  sage 
himself;  but  of  some  of  hia  disciples.  The 
characters  may  also  be  rendered  *  Digested  Con- 
versations,' and  this  appears  to  be  the  more 
ancient  signification  attached  to  them,  the  ac- 
count being,  that,  after  the  death  of  Confucius, 
his  disciples  collected  together  and  compared 
the  memoranda  of  hia  conversations  which  they 
had  severally  preserved,  digesting  them  into  the 
twenty  books  which  compose  the  work.  Hence 
the  title— ggf  =2*.,  'Discussed  Sayings,'  or  'Di- 
gested Conventions/  See  fjjjf  ^  §£  jg£ 
jift  j£  &.  I  have  styled  the  work  'Con- 
fucian Analects,'  aa  being  more  descriptive  of  its 
character  than  any  other  name  I  could  think  of. 

Heading  or  this  Book. — aft  jfljj  ^  — >. 

The  two  first  characters  in  the  book,  after  the 
introductory — 'The  Master  said,'  are  adopted 
as  its  heading.  This  is  similar  to  the  custom 
of  the  Jews,  who  name  many  books  in  the  Bible 

from  the  first  word  in  them.  1&  — — ,  'The 
first;'  that  is,  of  the  twenty  books  composing 
the  whole  work.  In  some  of  the  books  we  find 
a  unity  or  analogy  of  subjects,  which  evidently 
guided  the  compilers  in  grouping  the  chapters 


together.  Others  seem  devoid  of  any  such 
principle  of  combination.  The  sixteen  chapters 
of  this  book  are  occupied,  it  is  said,  with  the 
fundamental  subjects  which  ought  to  engage 
the  attention  of  the  learner,  and  the  great  mat- 
ters of  human  practice.    The  word  jft,  'fear*/ 

rightly  occupies  the  forefront  in  the  studies  of 
a  nation,  of  which  its  educational  system  has  so 
long  been  the  distinction  and  glory. 

1.  Tub  whole  work  and  achievement  of 
the  learn  kb,  first  perfecting  his  know- 
lbdgk,  them  attracting  bt  his  fame  like- 
minded  individuals,  and  finally  cohplet8 
in  himself.  1.  •¥*,  at  the  commencement,  indi- 
cates Confucius.  «3p, '  a  son,*  is  also  the  common 

designation  of  males, — especially  of  virtuous 
men.  We  find  it,  in  conversations,  used  in  the 
same  way  as  our  'Sir.'  When  it  follows  the  sur- 
name, it  is  equivalent  to  our  'Mr./  or  may  be  ren- 
dered '  the  philosopher,' '  the  scholar,' '  the  officer/ 
Ac  Often,  however,  it  is  better  to  leave  it  un- 
translated. When  it  precedes  the  surname,  it  in- 
dicates that  the  person  spoken  of  was  the  master 

of  the  writer,  aa  •¥•  V^  -5p,  '  my  master,  the 

philosopher  yjKV  Standing  single  and  alone,  aa  in 
the  text,  it  denotes  Confucius,  the  philosopher,  or, 
rather,  the  master.  If  we  render  the  term  by  Con- 
fucius, as  all  preceding  translators  have  done, 
we  miss  the  indication  which  it  gives  of  the 
handiwork  of  hia  disciples,  and  the  reverence 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


2 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


4l*  Wfi*  #  #  %  W  A  =T- 


Chapter  II.  1.  The  philosopher  Yew  said,  "They  are  few  who, 
being  filial  and  fraternal,  are  fond  of  offending  against  their  supe- 
riors. There  have  been  none,  who,  not  liking  to  offend  against  their 
superiors,  have  been  fond  of  stirring  up  confusion. 

2.  "The  superior  man  bends  his  attention  to  what  is  radical 
That  being  established,  all  practical  courses  naturally  grow    up. 

ion's  Dictionary,  char.  -7».    Its  opposite  is  /J\ 


which  it  bespeaks  for  him.  iBfr,  in  the  old  com* 
mentators,  is  explained  by  3S,  'to  read  chant- 
ingly,' '  to  discuss.'  Choo  He  interprets  it  by  jjjf, 
'to  imitate,'  and  makes  its  results  to  be  fffl 

W  ff5  'fit  %7JJ  <tne  understanding  of  all  ex- 
cellence, and  the  bringing  back  original  good- 
ness.' Subsequent  scholars  profess,  for  the  most 
part,  great  admiration  of  this  explanation.  It 
is  an  illustration,  to  my  mind,  of  the  way  in 
which  Choo  lie  and  his  followers  are  continually 
being  wise  above  what  is  written  in  the  classical 
books.  *&  is  the  rapid  and  frequent  motion  of 
the  wings  of  a  bird  in  flying,  used  for  'to  re- 
peat,' •  to  practise.'  ^  is  the  obj.  of  the  third 
pers.  pronoun,  and  its  antecedent  is  to  be  found 
in  the  pregnant  meaning  of  jft.  y^/(j\  is  ex- 
plained by  H|  >|>,  'is  it  not?'  See  [/t{  |j^ 
TOJjtiffi}  t=f"-  To  bring  out  the  force  of  'also ' 
in  TJf*,  some  say  thus :— 'The  occasions  for  plea- 
sure are  many,  is  this  not  also  one  f '  §fr,  read  yiO, 
as  always  when  it  has  the  4th  tone  marked,  stands 
for  4*&.  What  is  leprned  becomes  by  prac- 
tice and  application  one's  own,  snd  hence  arises 
complacent  pleasure  in  the  mastering  mind. 
^&  as  distinguished  from  #£,  Idh,  in  the  next 

par.,  is  the  internal,  individual,  feeling  of  plea- 
sure, and  the  other,  its  external  manifestation, 

implying  also  companionship.  2.  HH,  proper- 
ly, 'fellow-students;' but, generally,  individuals 
of  the  same  class  and  character,  like-minded. 

3.  S*"T"  *  tran8kte  here— 'a  man  of  complete 
rirtue.'  Literally,  it  is — 'a  princely  man.'  See 
on  -7*,  above.  It  is  a  technical  term  in  Chin, 
moral  writers,  for  which  there  is  no  exact  cor. 
respondeucy  in  English,  and  which  cannot  be 
rendered  always  in  the  same  way.     See  Morri- 


^,  (a  small,  mean,  man.'  \  JfyQjf,  'Men 
do  not  know  him,'  but  anciently  some  explain- 
ed— 'men  do  not  know,'  that  is,  are  stupid  un- 
der his  teaching.  The  interpretation  in  the 
text  is  doubtless  the  correct  one. 

2.  Filial  piety  and  fraternal  submission 
ark  the  foundation  of  all  virtuous  prac- 
TICE.   1.  Yew,  named  ^*»  and  styled  ^T^* 

and  -7*  jU^,  a  native  of  jS,  was  famed 
among  the  other  disciples  of  Confucius  for  his 
strong  memory,  and  love  for  the  doctrines  of  an- 
tiquity. In  personal  appearance  he  resembled  the 
sage.   See  Mencius,  III.  Pt.  U.  iv.  13.  ^J  -^-  is 

'Yew,  the  philosopher,' and  he  and  Tssng  Ts'an 
(or  Sin)  are  the  only  two  of  Confucius*  disci- 
ples who  are  mentioned  in  this  style  in  the 
Lun  Yti.  This  has  led  to  an  opinion  on  the 
part  of  some,  that  the  work  was  compiled  by 
their  disciples.  This  may  not  be  sufficiently  sup- 
ported, but  I  have  not  found  the  peculiarity 
pointed  out  satisfactorily  explained.  The  tablet 
of  Yew's  spirit  is  now  in  the  same  apartment 
of  the  sage's  temples  as  that  of  the  sage  him- 
self, occupying  the  6th  place  in  the  eastern 
range  of '  the  wise  ones.'  To  this  position  it 
was  promoted  in  the  3d  year  of  K'een-lung 
of  the  present  dynasty.  A  degree  of  activity 
enters  into  the  meaning  of  ^jji  in  ij£  A  ,=* 
'playing  the  man,'  'as  men,  showing  themselves 
filial,'  &c  H^J,  bere=$£, '  to  be  submissive  ss 
a  younger  brother,'  is  in  the  low.  3d  tone.  With 
its  proper  signification,  it  was  anciently  in  the 
2d  tone,  jjfjj  => '  and  yet,'  different  from  its  sta- 
ple conjunctive  uses '  and,'  in  the  prec.  ch.    *Sf, 

a  verb,  'to  love,'  in  the  up.  3d  tone,  cliff,  from 
the  same  char,  in  the  2d  tone,  an  ati^.,»'good.' 

|fi:£  up.  2d  tone,='few/  On  the  idiom— j£ 
/£  ^i  see  Fremare's  gram.  p.  ISC     2. 

Digitized  by  000< 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


ft &£$ 0  ifIA| 


<J 


^Jt^^Wfef 


Filial  piety  and  fraternal  submission ! — are  they  not  the  root  of  all 
benevolent  actions  ?  " 

Chapter  III.  The  Master  said,  "  Fine  words  and  an  insinuating 
appearance  are  seldom  associated  with  true  virtue." 

Chapter  IV.  The  philosopher  Ts&ng  said,  "I  daily  examine 
myself  on  three  points : — whether,  in  transacting  business  for  others, 
I  may  have  been  not  faithful ; — whether,  in  intercourse  with  friends, 
I  may  have  been  not  sincere ; — whether  I  may  have  not  mastered 
and  practised  the  instructions  of  my  teacher." 


EJr*  h**  »  lest  intense  signification  here 
in  the  last  chap.  I  translate — 'The  supe- 
rior man,'  for  want  of  a  better  term.  ffi.  *  the 
root,*  'what  is  radical,'  is  here  said  of  filial  and 
fraternal  duties,  and  jpj", '  ways'  or  '  courses,'  of 

all  that  is  intended  by  j^(=fj)  ^,  below. 
The  particles  -ffa.  j|f  resume  the  discourse 
about  3$£  jJ=J>  And  introduce  some  further 
description  of  them.  See  Premn  p.  158.  SL 
in  the  lower  1st  tone,  is  half  interrogative,  an 
answer  in  the  affirmative  being  implied.  <£^  is 
explained  here  as  'the  principle  of  lore,'  'the 
virtue  of  the  heart.'  Menciussays— tl"tfe^f* 
JL -#tt,  *f"7  *•  mlU1»,  m  accordance  with  which, 
June*  translates  it  by  kumanitat.  Benevolence 
often  comes  near  it,  but,  as  has  been  said  before 

of  jH*  -¥•,  we  cannot  gire  a  uniform  rendering 
of  this  term. 
S.  Fain  APraAJLuicas  abb  suspicious.   JJj 

^§T^^»— see8hoo.ldng>n.iiL2.  IJ, 'skill 
in  workmanship;'  then,  *  skill,'  'cleverness,' 
generally,  and  sometimes  with  a  bad  meaning,  as 

here,—' artful,'  'hypocritical.'  ^  'a  law,'  'an 

ecder,'  also  'good,'  and  here  like  JZj,  with  a 

fend  meaning,^  pretending  to  be  good.'  TO, 
*ihe  manifestation  of  the  feelings  in  the  colour 
at  the  countenance,'  is  here  used  for  the  appear- 
ance generally. 

4.     HOW  THE  PHILOSOPHER  TSANO  DAILY  KX- 
F,  TO  GUARD  AGAINST  HIS  BWNQ 


ouilty  or  ant  imposition.  Tt&mg,  whose  name 
was  ^J*,  (Ti'an,  now  commonly  read  SinJ  and 

his  designation  <7*  flft ,  was  one  of  the  principal 

disciples  of  Confucius.  A  follower  of  the  sage 
from  his  16th  year,  though  inferior  in  natural 
ability  to  some  others,  by  his  filial  piety  and 
other  moral  qualities,  he  entirely  won  the 
Master's  esteem,  and  by  persevering  attention 
mastered  his  doctrines.    Confucius  employed 

him  in  the  composition  of  the  j%£  j§^£,  or 

4  Classic  of  Filial  Piety.'  The  authorship  of  the 

■^  ffi,  'The  Great  Learning,'  is  also  ascribed 

to  him,  though  incorrectly,  as  we  shall  see.  Ten 
books,  moreover,  of  his  composition  are  pre- 
served in  the  Le-ke.  His  spirit  tablet  among  the 
sage's  four  assessors,  occupying  the  first  place 
on  the  west,  has  precedence  of  that  of  Hencius. 

-A*,  read  sing, '  to  examine.'  ££  l££  is  naturally 

understood  of  'three  times,'  but  the  context  and 
consent  of  commentators  make  us  assent  to  the 

interpretation — 'on  three  points.'     Jsjp,  'the 

body,' 'one's  personaUtyj'^^Btns^.  ^ 
is  in  low.  8d  tone,='  for.  So,  frequently,  below. 
if*    from   pfa,  'middle,'    'the   centre,'   and 

jfy,  'tlie  heart,'=loyalty,  faithfulness,  action 

with  and  from  the  heart.  J9H,  see  ch.  1.     7^, 

'two  hands  joined,'  denoting  union.     HB  ^, 

'friends.'    *W  yK  *&  is  very  enigmatical. 

The  translation  follows  Choo  He.     ^pf  *& 

explained  quite  differently: — 'whether  I  have 
given  instruction  in  what  I  had  not  studied  and 
practised  ? '    It  does  seem  more  correct  to  take 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


«*  b.  iw  w  &  an*  w  * 

Chapter  V.  The  Master  said,  "  To  rule  a  country  of  a  thousand 
chariots,  there  must  be  reverent  attention  to  business,  and  sincerity; 
economy  in  expenditure,  and  love  for  men ;  and  the  employment  of 
the  people  at  trie  proper  seasons." 

Chapter  VI.  The  Master  said,  "A  youth,  when  at  home,  should 
be  filial,  and,  abroad,  respectful  to  his  elders.  He  should  be  earnest 
and  truthful.  He  should  overflow  in  love  to  all,  and  cultivate  the 
friendship  of  the  good.  When  he  has  time  and  opportunity,  after 
the  performance  of  these  things,  he  should  employ  them  in  polite 
studies." 

Chapter  VII.  Tsze-hea  said,  "  If  a  man  withdraws  his  mind 
from  the  love  of  beauty,  and  applies  it  as  sincerely  to  the  love  of 
the  virtuous;  if,  in  serving  his  parents,  he  can  exert  his  utmost 


4fe  actively,  *  to  give  instruction,'  rather  than 
passively, '  to  receive  instruction/  See  DQ  3£ 

|j$[  |§S  XV.  17. 

6.    Fundamental  principles  for  the  oo- 

VERNMENTOFA  LARGE  STATE.    »|jfisUSedfor^fc, 

*  to  rule,'  'to  lead,'  and  is  marked  in  the  3d  tone, 
todUttoguWiitfrom^.thenoun,  which  wmm- 

dently  read  with  the  2d  tone.  Itisdiff.fromj&, 
which  refers  to  the  actual  business  of  govern- 
ment, while  jB  is  the  duty  and  purpose  thereof, 
apprehended  by  the  prince.  The  standpoint  of 
the  principles  is  the  prince's  mind.   3p,  in  low. 

3d  tone,  *  a  chariot,'  diff.  from  its  meaning  in 
the  1st  tone,  'to  ride.'  A  country  of  1000  cha- 
riots is  one  of  the  largest  fiefs  of  the  empire, 
-which  could  bring  such  an  armament  into  the 

field.    The  last  principle,—^  |j^  J£j[  JJ^p, 

means  that  the  people  should  not  be  called  from 

their  husbandry  at  improper  seasons,  to  do  ser- 

Tice  on  military  expeditions  and  public  works. 

6.    Rules  for  the  training  of  the  tocno  : 

— DUTT  FIRST  AND  THE*  ACCOMPLISHMENTS,    tfr 


-7*,  'younger  brothers  and  sons,'  taken  together, 
^youths,  a  youth.  The  2d  j3&  is  for  {&,  as 
in  ch.  2.  j\  m ,  *  coming  in,  going  out,'*9** 
home,  abroad,  yj^  is  explained  by  Choo  He 
by  B, '  wide,' '  widely  ;*  its  proper  meaning  is 
*  the  rush  or  overflow  of  water.'    it , '  strength,' 

here  embracing  the  idea  of  kisure.   jSt  *£,  not 

literary  studies  merely,  but  all  the  accomplish- 
ments of  a  gentleman  also :— ceremonies,  music, 
archery,  horsemanship,  writing,  and  numbers. 

7.  Tsze-hea's  views  of  the  substance  of 
learning.  Tsze-hea  was  the  designation  of 
K  |8f >  another  of  the  sage's  distinguished 
disciples,  and  now  placed  5th  in  the  eastern  range 
of '  the  wise  ones.'  He  was  greatly  famed  for 
his  learning,  and  his  views  on  the  She-king  and 
the  Ch***  Ttfew  are  said  to  be  preserved  in  the 

comm.  of  ^>  *ua  °f  ^j^^  and  ||££!£ 
jjn.  He  wept  himself  blind  on  the  death  of 
his  son,  but  lived  to  a  great  age,  and  was  ranch 
esteemed  by  the  people  and  princes  of  the  time. 
With  regard  to  the  scope  of  this  chapter,  there 


Confucian  analects. 


n  #  #  *  7;    w  w 


strength,  if%  in  serving  his  prince,  he  can  devote  his  life;  if,  in  his  in- 
tercourse with  his  friends,  his  words  are  sincere : — although  men 
say  that  he  has  not  learned,  I  will  certainly  say  that  he  has. ' 

Chapter  VIII.  1.     The  Master  said,  "If  the  scholar  be  not  grave, 
he  will  not  call  forth  any  veneration,  and  his  learning  will  not  be  solid. 

2.  "Hold  faithfulness  and  sincerity  as  first  principles. 

3.  "Have  no  friends  not  equal  to  yourself. 

4.  "  Whenyou  have  faults,  do  not  fear  to  abandon  them." 
Chapter  I  a.    The  philosopher  Ts&ng  said,  "  Let  there  be  a  care- 
ful attention  to  perform  the  funeral  rites  to  parents,  and  let  them  be 
followed  when  long  gone  with  the  ceremonies  of  sacrifice; — then  the 
virtue  of  the  people  will  resume  its  proper  excellence." 

-7*  h**  tore  its  lightest  meaning,=a  student, 


is  some  troth  in  what  the  comm.  Woo,JJL,  says, 
—that  Tsse-hea's  words  may  be  wrested  to  de- 
preciate learning,  while  those  of  the  Master  in 
the  prec  ch.  hit  exactly  the  dne  medium.  The 
3d  W-  is  a  concrete  noun.    Written  in  full, 

Bf ,  it  is  composed  of  the  characters  for  a  mm- 
uttr,  loyal,  and  a  precious  shell.  It  conveys  the 
ideas  of  talents  ana  worth  in  the  concrete,  but  it 
is  not  easy  to  render  it  uniformly  by  any  one 
term  of  another  language.   The  1st  Sis  a  verb, 

-c'totreatasaA&n.'    A  has  a  diff.  meaning 

from  that  in  the  3d  ch.  Here  it  means  'sensual 
pleasure.'  Literally  rendered,  the  first  sentence 
would  be,  *  esteeming  properly  the  virtuous, 
and  changing  the  love  of  woman,'  and  great 

fault  is  found  by  some,  as  in  jjtj  |§£  |jfc£f^ 

XUX  1,  with  Choo  He's  interpretation  which 
I  have  followed ;  but  there  is  force  in  what  his 
adherents  say,  that  the  passage  is  not  to  be  un- 
derstood as  if  the  individual  spoken  of  had  ever 
been  given  to  pleasure,  but  simply  signifies  the 
sincerity  of  his  love  for  the  virtuous.    |5j£  here 

^Sfc  •  to  give  to,'  *  to  devote.' 

a.  r&IMCCPLES  OF  SELF-CULTIVATION.    1,  j^f 


one  who  wishes  to  be  a  keun-taze.  Ifo  *tjr  gg» 
of  the  Han  dynasty,  in  the  1st  half  of  the  2d 
century,  took  ffl ,  in  the  sense  of  *  obscured,' 

'  dulled,'  and  interprets — '  Let  him  learn,  and  he 
will  not  fall  into  error.'  The  received  interpreta- 
tion, as  in  the  transl.,  is  better.  2.  ifc,  as  a 
verb, '  to  hold  to  be  chief.'  It  is  often  used  thus. 
3.  The  object  of  friendship,  with  Chinese  mora- 
lists, is  to  improve  one's  knowledge  and  virtue ; 
—hence,  this  seemingly  selfish  maxim. 

9.  The  good  effect  of  attention  on  tub 
Fast  of  princes  to  tub  offices  to  the  dead  : 
— an  admonition  of  Tsano  Sin.  £&, '  the  end,' 

=death,  and  jft,  'distant,'  have  both  the  force 
of  adjectives,^1  the  dead,'  and '  the  departed,'  or 
'  the  long  gone.'  4s£  and  j&  mean,  'to  be  care- 
ful of,'  *  to  follow,'  but  their  application  is  as  in 
the  translation.    JH[,  'thick,'  in  opposition  to 

Wm%  'thin;' metaphorically, =qoo&  exctdent  The 
force  of  8S, '  to  return,'  is  to  shew  that  this 
virtue  is  naturally  proper  to  the  people. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


6 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£  m  =r-  r  ~ 


if  -  fc  A  T 

^fe     >UlH    21     21 


0,  J|t  M  T" 


Chapter  X  1.  Tsze-k'in  asked  Tsze-kung,  saying,  "When  our 
master  comes  to  any  country,  he  does  not  fail  to  learn  all  about  its 
government.     Does  he  ask  his  information?  or  is  it  given  to  him?n 

2.  Tsze-kung  said,  "  Our  master  is  benign,  upright,  courteous, 
temperate,  and  complaisant,  and  thus  he  gets  his  information.  The 
Master's  mode  of  asking  information ! — is  it  not  different  from  that 
of  other  men?" 

Chapter  XL  The  Master  said,  "While  a  man's  father  is  alive, 
look  at  the  bent  of  his  will;  when  his  father  is  dead,  look  at  his 
conduct.  If  for  three  years  he  does  not  alter  from  the  way  of  his 
father,  he  may  be  called  filial." 

10.    Charaotebistios  of  Confucius,  and 
the1b  influence  oh  tub  pe1hcjw  of  the  timb. 

1.  Tsse-kin,  and  Tsse-k'ang  (jj^),  are  desig- 
nations of  tt[  jfjj,  one  of  the  minor  disciples  of 
Confucius,  His  tablet  occupies  the  28th  place, 
on  the  west,  in  the  outer  hall  of  the  temples. 
A  good  story  is  related  of  him.  On  the  death 
of  his  brother,  his  wife  and  major-domo  wished 
to  bury  some  living  persons  with  him,  to  serve 
him  in  the  regions  below.  The  thing  being  re- 
ferred to  Tice-kln,  he  proposed  that  the  wife 
and  steward  should  themselves  submit  to  the 
immolation,  which  made  them  stop  the  matter. 

Tsze-kung,  with  the  double  surname  $&  ^, 

and  named  Jfi,  occupies  a  higher  place  in  the 

Confucian  ranks,  and  is  now  the  third  on  the 
east  among  '  the  wise  ones.'  He  is  conspicuous 
In  this  work  for  his  readiness  and  smartness  in 
reply,  and  displayed  on  several  occasions  prac- 
tical and  political  ability.    4^,  'a  general  de- 

aigiiatton  for  mates/sea  man.  ^j-^r,— acorn- 


^J,  '  this  country'^aay  country,  jj^,  'must,* 
undoes  not  fail  to.  The  antecedent  to  both  the 
j£  is  the  whole  clause  pfl^jl^  Obs.the 
diff.  in  fijL  up.  2d  tone,«'  to  give/  and  often  a 
preposition,  'with,'  'to,'  and  fi|,  low.  1st  tone* 

as  in  ch.  2.    2.  The  force  of  ^  §§  is  well 

enough  expressed  by  the  dash  in  English,  the 
previous  A  indicating  a  pause  in  the  discourse, 
which  the  ^,  'it,'  resumes. 
11.    On  filial  duty,    ^fj  is  in  the  low.  3d 

tone,  explained  by  tftyfa,  'traces  of  walking/ 
^conduct.  It  is  to  be  understood  that  the  way 
of  the  father  had  not  been  very  bad.  An  oM 
interpretation,  that  the  three  years  are  to  bo 
understood  of  the  three  years  of  mourning  tot 
the  father!  is  now  rightly  rejected. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


_ illM^i 

f  ^  W  pT  ^  £>&  >h  A  IP 


Chapter  XII.  1.  The  philosopher  Yew  said,  "  In  practising  the 
rules  of  propriety,  a  natural  ease  is  to  be  prized.  In  the  ways  pre- 
scribed by  the  ancient  kings,  this  is  the  excellent  quality,  and  in 
things  small  and  great  we  follow  them. 

2.  "  Yet  it  is  not  to  be  observed  in  all  cases.  If  one,  knowing 
how  such  ease  should  be  prized,  manifests  it,  without  regulating  it 
by  the  rules  of  propriety,  this  likewise  is  not  to  be  done.' 

Chapter  XIII.  The  philosopher  Yew  said,  "  When  agreements 
are  made  according  to  what  is  right,  what  is  spoken  can  be  made 
good.  When  respect  is  shown  according  to  what  is  proper,  one 
keeps  far  from  shame  and  disgrace.  When  the  parties  upon  whom 
a  man  leans  are  proper  persons  to  be  intimate  with,  he  can  make 
them  his  guides  and  masters.91 

Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  "  He  who  aims  to  be  a  man 
of  complete  virtue,  in  his  food  does  not  seek  to  gratify  his  appetite. 


IS.    Ik  cebbmoiobs  a  batubal  bass  is  to  be 

PRIZED,  AND  TBT  TO  BB  SUBORDINATE  TO  THE 
BED  OB  CEREMONIES, — TUB  BBTEBB2CT1AL  0B8BB- 

TAircB  or  propriety.  1.  §8  is  not  easily  ren- 
dered in  another  language.  There  underlies  it 
the  ideaof  what  is  proper.    It  U^^^, 'the 

fitness  of  things,'  what  reason  calls  for  in  the 
performance  of  duties  towards  superior  beings, 
and  between  man  and  man.  Our  term  <cere- 
monic- come,  near  it.  meaning  here.    |g  U 

here  a  name  for  jjjfi,  as  indicating  the  courses  or 

way  to  be  pursued  by  men.    Ih/k^tb^, 

the  antecedent  to  ^  is  not  j^Q,  but  iB  or 

ffi.  2.  Obs.  the  force  of  the  jfe, '  also,'  in  the 
last  clause,  and  how  it  affirms  the  general  prin- 
ciple enunciated  in  the  first  paragraph. 


18.  TO  SAVE  FBOM  FUTUBB  REPENTANCE,  W» 
MUST  BB  CAREFUL  IN  OUB  FIRST  STEPS.   A  'diff. 

view  of  the  scope  of  this  ch.  is  taken  by  Ho  An. 
It  illustrates,  according  to  him,  the  difference 
between  being  sincere  and  righteousness,  be- 
tween being  respectful  and  propriety,  and  how 
a  man's  conduct  may  be  yenerated.  The  later 
view  commends  itself,  the  only  difficulty  being 

with  j^£  jjf^,  *  near  to,'  which  we  must  accept 
as  a  metom  for  ^  5EL,  'agreeing  with.'    j|Sj 

*«^g $J>  '*  covenant,' ' agreement.*  ML  up. 
8d  tone,  4to  keep  away  from.'  The  force  of  the 
Tfctte'he  can  go  on  to  make  them  his  masters,* 
££2  being  taken  as  an  active  verb, 

14.  With  what  mind  okb  aiming  to  bb  a 
Keun-tsee  pursues  his  learning.  He  may 
be  well,  even  luxuriously,  fed 

Digitized  by  ^ 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS, 


IE  WIS* 
MM 


nor  in  his  dwelling-place  does  he  seek  the  appliances  of  ease ;  he  is 
earnest  in  what  he  is  doing,  and  careful  in  his  speech ;  he  frequents 
the  company  of  men  of  principle  that  he  may  be  rectified : — such 
a  person  may  be  said  indeed  to  love  to  learn." 

Chapter  XV.  1.  Tsze-kung  said,  "What  do  you  pronounce 
concerning  the  poor  man  who  yet  does  not  flatter,  and  the  rich  man 
who  is  not  proud ?"  The  Master  replied,  "They  will  do;  but  they 
are  not  equal  to  him,  who,  though  poor,  is  yet  cheerful,  and  to  him, 
who,  though  rich,  loves  the  rules  of  propriety." 

2.  Tsze-kung  replied,  "It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  <As 
you  cut  and  then  file,  as  you  carve  and  then  polish.' — The  meaning 
is  the  same,  I  apprehend,  as  that  which  you  have  just  expressed." 

3.  The  Master  said,  "With  one  like  Tsze,  I  can  begin  to  talk 
about  the  Odes.  1  told  him  one  point,  and  he  knew  its  proper 
sequence." 

with  his  higher  aim,  these  things  are  not  his 
seeking,-^  j£.  A  nominatiTe  to  pf  §{§ 
must  be  supposed,— aU  this,  or  euck  a  perton. 
The  closing  particles,  jj^  ^,  give  emphasis 
to  the  preceding  sentence,~y«  indeed, 

15.   •    Alt    ILLUSTRATION    OF  THB  aUCCBSSIVB 

steps  in  sblf-cultivatiom.  1.  Tsze-kung  had 
been  poor,  and  then  did  not  cringe.  He  became 
rich,  and  was  not  proud.  He  asked  Confucius 
about  the  style  of  char,  to  which  he  had  at- 
tained.   Conf.  allowed  its  worth,  but  sent  him  to 

higher  attainments.  jjj),  here,s='andyet.*  ^3 
£p,  'what  as?  '«=' what  do  you  say—  what  is 
to  be  thought,— of  this  ?'  Obs.  the  force  of  the 
^t,  'not  yet    2.  The  ode  quoted  is  the  first  of 

the  songs  of  Wei  (|6j)>  praising  the  prince 
Woo,  who  had  dealt  with  himself  as  an  ivory- 
worker  who  first  cuts  the  bone,  and  then  files 


it  smooth,  or  a  lapidary  whose  hammer  and  chisel 
are  followed  by  all  the  appliances  for  smoothing 
and  polishing.     8ee  the  She-king,  L  v.  Ode  L  at. 

2.  **  J£$f  £  §Q>  toe  antecedent  to  J£ 
is  the  passage  of  the  ode,  and  that  to  JUT  is  the 

reply  of  Confucius.     ^  jflf  >  iee  Fremant  P- 

166.    8.  Intorcetta  and  his  co-a4jutors  translate 

this  par.  as  if  jttl  were  in  the  2d  person.    Bat 

the  Chin.  comm.  put  it  in  the  3d,  and  correctly* 

Premare,  on  the  char.  jh. ,  says, '  Fen  temper 

adjunqitur  nominibus  propriis.  Sic  tin  Kbro  Lm 
IU)  Confucius  bquene  de  suit   dieciptUie,    Yeem^ 

Ketmy  Hoeiy  vel  ipeoe  alloquens,  dicit  tjt  4tt» 

5|c-tfa>  [Ejifc'  With  the  example  in  m. 
17,  before  us,  it  is  not  to  be  denied  that  the, 
name  before  4ft  is  sometimes  in  the  2d  person, 
but  generally  it  is  in  Uw  3d,  and  Uw  force  of  th* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


%n  &  £  J 

A  i§>  ^  ffi» 

4T^  B  A 

I      Chapter   XVI.     The    Master 
I  men's  not  knowing  me;  I  will  be 

neaHy=-^  Q,  in  ch.  14.  ^,  the  final  part. 
(see  Prem.  p.  185),  is  thus  marked  with  a  tone, 
ta  distinguish  it  from  g, ,  'self,'  as  in  next  ch. 
The  last  clause  may  be  given— 'Tell  him  the 
past,  and  he  knows  the  future,'  but  the  connec- 
tion determines  the  meaning  as  iu  the  transition. 
g£ ,  as  in  ch.  10,  is  a  particle,  a  mere  jj^f-  JJy , 
as*  it  is  called,  'a  helping*  or  supporting  sound. 

UL  PbRSOXAJL   ATTAINMENT    8UOLXD   BE    OL'E 


¥  *  tt 

0,  f.I 


said,    "I  will  not  be  afflicted  at 
afflicted  that  I  do  not  know  men." 

chief  aim.  Comp.  ch.  1.  p.  3.  Obs.  the  trans- 
position in  g,  ^,  which  Is  more  elegant  than 
$|f  Q  would  be.  Q,  'self,'  the  person  de- 
pending on  the  context.  We  cannot  translate 
4do  not  be  afflicted,*  because  ^\  is  not  used 
imperatively,  like  ^jj.  A  nominative  to  fjfr 
has  to  be  assumed,-^,  'V  or  ^  «^r,  'to 
superior  man.* 


BOOK  II.  WEI  CHING. 


1LX  £  it  &£  S 


^wejubib. 


Chapter  I.  The  Master  said,  "He  who  exercises  government 
by  means  of  his  virtue,  may  be  compared  to  the  north  polar  star, 
which  keeps  its  place  and  all  the  stars  turn  towards  it." 


Heading  or  this  Book.— ^gj  j)!3(£  JJJ  ZL' 
This  second  book  contains  twenty  four  chapters, 
and  is  named  ^  jjj£,  'The  practice  of  govern- 
ment.* That  is  ihe  object  to  which  learning, 
treated  of  in  the  last  book,  should  lead,  and 
here  we  have  the  qualities  which  constitute, 
and  the  character  of  the  men  who  administer, 
good  government. 

1.  Tub  influence  op  virtue  in  a  blxbr. 
4A  is  explained  by  ^S,  but  the  old  comm.say 

4*i  #  #  £  iS  £  S  •*!»»«•*««• 

get  in  order  to  their  birth  is  called  their  virtue,' 
•Uilc  Choo  lie  makes  it*  ff  jg  jfi]  ^  f^ 


jjr^  AjJS  <the  practice  of  truth  and  acquisition 
thereof  in  the  heart.*  Choo's  view  of  the  com- 
parison is  that  it  sets  forth  the  illimitable 
influence  which  virtue  in  a  ruler  exercises  with- 
out his  using  any  effort.  This  is  extravagant. 
His  opponents  say  that  virtue  is  the  polar  star, 
and  the  various  departments  of  government  the 
other  stars.  This  is  far-fetched.  We  must  be 
content  to  accept  the  vague  utterauce  without 
minutely  determining  its  meaning.  j\fc  Jg£  i*» 
no  doubt,  4the  north  polar  star,*  anciently  be- 
lieved to  coincide  exactly  with  the  place  of  the 
real  pole,  ^t  is  up.  2d  tone,  used  for  ^t,  'to 
fold  the  hands  in  saluting,'  here='to  turn 
respectfully  towards.1 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


10 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


mm  "f'VX  %ot,  t*  bt 

Chapter  II.  The  Master  said,  "In  the  Book  of  Poetry  are 
three  hundred  pieces,  but  the  design  of  them  all  may  be  embraced 
in  one  sentence — 'Have  no  depraved  thoughts.'" 

Chapter  III.  1.  The  Master  said,  "If  the  people  be  led  by 
laws,  and  uniformity  sought  to  be  given  them  by  punishments,  they 
will  try  to  avoid  the  punishment,  but  have  no  sense  of  shame. 

2.  "If  they  be  led  by  virtue,  and  uniformity  sought  to  be  given 
them  by  the  rules  of  propriety,  they  will  have  the  sense  of  shame, 
and  moreover  will  become  good." 

Chapter  IV.  1.  The  Master  said,  "At  fifteen,  I  had  my  mind 
bent  on  learning. 

2.  "  At  thirty,  I  stood  firm. 

3.  "  At  forty,  I  had  no  doubts. 


2.  The  pure  design  of  the  Book  of 
Poetry.  The  number  of  compositions  in  the 
She-king  is  rather  more  than  the  round  number 

here  given.    —  W«  — •  ^jl,  'one  sentence.' 

flSh  |f.  't<> cover,'  'to embrace.'  &$&%$, 
see  She-king,  IV.  ii.  l.st.  4.  The  sentence  there 
is  indicative,  and  in  praise  of  the  duke  He, 
who  had  no  depraved  thoughts.  The  sage  would 
seem  to  have  been  intending  his  own  design  in 
compiling  the  She.  Individual  pieces  are  cal- 
culated to  have  a  diff.  effect. 

3.  HOW  RULEHS  SHOULD  PREFER  MORAL  AP- 
PLIANCES.    1.  j|?,  as  in  I.  5.  ^,  'them,'  ref. 

to  ^^,  below.    jBf,  as  oppos.  to  fjK,==laws 

and  prohibitions.  Tfflt,  'corn  earing  evenly;' 
hence,  what  is  level,  equal,  adjusted,  and  here 
with  the  corresponding  verbal  force.  E5  "ffi , 
•The  people  will  avoid,'  that  is,  avoid  breaking 
the  laws  thro,  fear  of  the  punishment.  2.  >fc& 
has  the  flignif.  of  'to  come  to,'  and  'to  correct,' 
from  either  of  which  the  text  may  be  explained, 
— 'will  come  to  good,'  or  'will  correct  them- 


selves.' Obs.  the  diff.  of  JJ^  and  j}jj  in  p.  1. 
j7q=:'but;'   fl  = 'moreover.' 

4.     CONFUCIUS'  OWN  ACCOUNT  OF  HIS  GRADUAL 

progress  and  ATTAINMENT*.  Chin,  comni.  are 
perplexed  with  this  ch.  Holding  of  Confucius 

was  born  with  knowledge,  and  did  what  was 
right  with  entire  ease,'  they  say  that  he  here 
cone  ml  s  his  sagehood,  and  puts  himself  on  the 
level  of  common  men,  to  set  before  them  a 
stimulating  example.  We  may  believe  that 
the  compilers  of  the  Analects,  the  sage's  imme- 
diate disciples,  did  not  think  of  him  so  extrava- 
gantly as  later  men  have  doue.  It  is  tone 
wished,  however,  that  he  had  been  more  definite 
and  diffuse  in  his  account  of  himself.     1.  3£f, 

in  low.  3d  tone,«'and.'  The  'learning/  to 
which,  at  15,  Conf.  gave  himself,  is  to  be  under- 
stood of  the  subjects  of  the  'Superior  Learning.' 
See  Choo  He's  preliminary  essay  to  the  Ta 
He5.  2.  The  'standing  firm'  probably  indicates 
that  he  no  more  needed  to  bend  his  wiH.  3. 
The  'no  doubts'  may  have  been  concerning 
what  was  proper   in    all   circumstances    and 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COXFCCIAN   ANALECTS. 


11 


M  &>  B,  ^  S.S5^  )Io  W 


5£ 


■ 


flij  ^?, 


4.  "  At  fifty,  I  knew  the  decrees  of  heaven. 

5.  u  At  sixty,  my  ear  was  an  obedient  organ  for  the  reception  of 
truth. 

6.  "At  seventy,  I  could  follow  what  my  heart  desired,  without 
transgressing  what  was  right". 

Chapter  v.  M&ng  E  asked  what  filial  piety  was.  The  Master 
said,  "It  is  not  being  disobedient." 

2.  Soon  after,  as  Pan  Ch'e  was  driving  him,  the  Master  told  him, 
saying,  'M&ng-sun  asked  me  what  filial  piety  was,  and  I  answered 
him, — 'not  being  disobedient." 

3.  Fan  jCh'e  said,  "What  did  you  mean?"  The  Master  replied, 
"That  parents,  when  alive,  should  be  served  according  to  propriety; 
that,  when  dead,  they  should  be  buried  according  to  propriety;  and 
that  they  should  be  sacrificed  to  according  to  propriety/ 

princely  descent,  and  <|tff  3f&,  -jfS  -H^  and 

35  J&,  became  the  respective  surnames  of 

tbe  families.    <jut  J&  was  changed  into  jfc 

3&,  by  the  father  of  Mang  E,  on  a  principle 
of  humility,  as  he  thereby  only  claimed  to  be 
the  eldest  of  the  inferior  sons  or  their  repres- 
entatives, and  avoided  the  presumption  of 
seeming  to  be  a  younger  full  brother  of  the 
reigning  duke,  jfcfc,  'mild  and  virtuous,'  was 
the  posthumous  honorary  title  given  to  Ho-ke. 
On  -^p,  see  I.  1.1.    Fan,  by  name  ^j|,  aud 

designated  -7*  jS,  was  a  minor  disciple  of 
the  sage.  Conf.  repeated  his  remark  to  Fany 
that  he  might  report  the  explanation  of  it  to 
his  friend  Mang  £,  or  Mang-sun,  and  thus 
prevent  him  from  supposing  that  all  the  sage 
intended  was  disobedience  to  parents, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


events.  4.  'The  decrees  of  Heaven,^  the  things 
decreed  by  Heaven,  the  constitution  of  things 
making  what  was  proper  to  be  so.  5.  'The 
ear  obedient'  is  the  mind   receiving   as   by 

intuition  the  truth  from  the  ear.  6.  yjpj '  an 
instrument  for  determining  the  square.1    yf* 

Jh  4jJ,  'without  transgressing  the  square.* 

6.  Filial  pixtt  must  bb  shown  according 
*#xhb  hvi  u  of  propriety.  1.  Mang  £  was 
a  great  officer  of  the  state  of  Loo,  by  name 

Ho-ke  ('jijf  JS),  and  the  chief  of  one  of  the 

three  great  families  by  which  in  the  time  of 
Cbnf.  the  authority  of  that  state  was  grasped. 
Those  families  were  descended  from  three 
brothers,  the  sons  by  a  concubine  of  the  duke 
Hwan  (B.  C.  710-693),  who  were  distinguished 

at  irst  by  the  prenomens  of  <jttt,  J^,  and 
•95.  To  these  was  subsequently  added  the 
character    JBL    'grandson,*  to   indicate  their 


12 


COXFUOIAN   AXALECTS. 


{mm  yu 


Chapter  VI.  Ming  Woo  asked  what  filial  piety  was.  The  Master 
said,  "Parents  are  anxious  lest  their  children  should  be  sick." 

Chapter  VII.  Tsze-ycw  asked  what  filial  piety  was.  The  Mas- 
ter said,  "The  filial  piety  of  now-a-days  means  the  support  of  ones 
parents.  But  dogs  and  horses  likewise  are  able  to  do  something  in 
the  way  of  support;— without  reverence,  what  is  there  to  distinguish 
the  one  support  given  from  the  other?" 

Chapter  VI I L  Tsze-hea  asked  what  filial  piety  was.  The  Mas- 
ter said,  "The  difficulty  is  with  the  countenance.  If,  when  their 
elders  have  any  troublesome  affairs,  the  young  take  the  toil  of  thera, 
and  if,  when  the  young  have  wine  and  food,  they  set  them  before 
their  elders,  is  this  to  be  consdered  filial  piety?" 


6.  The  anxjett  of  parents  about  their 
children  an  argument  for  filial  piety. 
This  engmatical  sentence  has  been  interpreted 

in  two  ways.  Choo  He  takes  Pf£  («  j$£)  not  In 
the  sense  of  'only,'  but  of  'thinking  anxiously /- 
4  Parents  have  the  sorrow  of  thinking  anxiously 
about  their-*,  e  their  children's-hcing  unwell. 
Therefore  children  should  take  care  of  their 
persons,'    The  old  comw.  again  take  P&  in  the 

sense  of  *  only/-**  Let  parents  hare  only  the  sor- 
row of  their  children's  illness.  Let  them  have 
no  other  occasion  for  sorrow.  This  will  be  Alt- 
ai piety.*  Mang  Woo  (the  hon.  epithet,* 4l*okl 
and  of  straightforward  principle/)  was  the  son 
of  Mang  E,  and  by  name  jUj.  4t\  merely  indi- 
cates that  he  was  the  eldest  son. 

HOW  THERE  MUST  BE  REVERENCE  IN  FILIAL  PU- 
TT.   Tsae*yew  was  the  designation  of  =2"  4&t 

a  native  of  J5.,  and  distinguished  among  the 

disciples  of  Conf.  for  his  know  I.  of  the  rules  of 
propriety,  and  for  his  learning.    He  is  now  4th 

on  the  west  among '  the  wise  ones/  31§  is  in  low. 

3d  tone,«4to  minister  support  to/  the  act  of  an 


inferior  to  a  superior.  In  low.  3d  tosje,  ft«<to 
nourish/  4 bring  tip,'  Choo  He  gives  a  differeat 
turn  to  the  sentiment. — 'But  dogs  and  horses 
likewise  manage  to  get  their  support.'     The 

other  and  older  interpr.  is  better.     •£  "t^, 

*  Coming  to,  =as  to,  quoad.  H|j,  up.  4th  tone, 'to 

discriminate/  *  distinguish/  In  low.  tone,  J9H 
*4to  leave/  *  separate  from/ 

8.   THE  DLT1I*  OF  FILIAL  riBTT  MUST  BE  FEt- 
FORMED  WITH  A  CHEERFUL  COUNTENANCE,    ft 4 

here,  nearly  analogous  to  I.  3.  S.  followed  by 
4B,  «the  'troublesome  affairs'  in  the  transLj& 
«3r ,  as  in  I. ft.  The  use  of  the  phrase  here  ex- 
tends filial  duty  to  elders  generally, — to  the  ^ 
fa  as  well  as  to  the  ^£  -JjJ\  We  have  is 
transl.  to  supply  their  respective  nom.  to  ts» 
two  ^=t.    ^^,  read  i*r«\  'rice/  and  then,  food 

generally.  %  t£  #g--f|  jt  &.(«*« 
bor»=  eMer^fH £ .  «•  low.  -1«  t««.»Sj. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


C6NFUCIAN  analects. 


13 


if  &  A  "  " 


T^Co 


■ 


5ft  T>  T 

10  W  0 

4l£  # 


Chapter  IX.  The  Master  said,  "I  have  talked  with  Hwuy 
for  a  whole  day,  and  he  has  not  made  any  objection  to  any  thing  I 
mm/;- as  if  he  were  stupid.  He  has  retired,  and  I  have  examined 
his  conduct  when  away  from  me,  and  found  him  able  to  illustrate 
my  teachhigs.     Hwuy! — He  is  not  stupid." 

Chapter  X.  1.     The  Master  said,  "  See  what  a  man  does. 

2.  "  5lark  his  motives. 

3.  "  Examine  in  what  things  he  rests. 

4.  u  How  can  a  man  conceal  his  character! 

5.  "  How  can  a  man  conceal  his  character!" 

Chapter  XL  The  Master  said,  "  If  a  man  keeps  cherishing  his 
old  knowledge,  so  as  continually  to  be  acquiring  new,  he  may  be  a 
teacher  of  otners." 


4  then/  a  transition  particle.  To  these  diff.  in- 
terrogatories about  filial  duty,  the  sage,  we  are 
told,  made  answer  according  to  the  character  of 
the  questioner,  as  each  one  needed  instruction. 
9.  The  quiet  receptivity  or  the  disciple 

Hwuy.  Yen  Ilwuy  (g|j  [jjj  ),  -tyled  -^  ^, 
was  Confucius'  favourite  disciple,  and  is  now 
honoured  with  the  first  place  east  among  his 
foar  assessors  in  his  temples,  and  with  the  title  of 

HM.  =^  SfidF' <The  *econd  8a8e> the  pbil°*°- 

pher  Yen.'  At  20  his  hair  was  entirely  white, 
and  at  33  he  died  to  the  excessive  grief  of  the 

sift.  The  subject  of  jj|  is  [gj,  and  that  of 
lg  (as  in  1. 4.)  is  2E  3£fa,  'his  privacy,' 
rafc  meaning  his  conduct  in  secret,  but  only  his 
way  when  not  with  the  master.  vjfj\  'also,*  takes 

'■^  ^to  j&» — ^Hc wa*  "^ juid alao "^  iBjifc' 

seel,  15. 

10.   HOW  TO  DETERMINE  THE  CHARACTERS  OP 

*n*.  1.  ^j[  is  explained  as=^J,  or  ^J  J^, 
'tUp*.'    Thf  name,  tho'  not  Its  comm,  meaning, 


is  the  first  given  to  it  in  the  Diet  For  the 
noun  to  which  the  three  lt£  refer,  we  must 

go  down  to  ^  in  the  4th  par.    There  is  a 

climax  m  ffX  J^'  f$T\£$  Cwhat  from'),  and 
mf  ftjr,  and  a  corresponding  one  in  the  verbs 

WL'  M'  and  £§£*  4'  M'  gen#  a  flnal  Particle> 

in  low.  1st  tone,  is  here  in  up.  1st.,  an  interroga- 
tive,=how?    Its  interrog.  force  blends  with  the 

exclamatory  of  -i£  at  the  end. 

11.  TO  BE  ABLE  TO  TEACH  OTHERS  ONE  MUST 
FROM  HIS  OLD  STOKES  BE  CONTINUALLY  DEVEL- 
OPING things  new.  j[M  is  exp.  in  the  Diet,  by 

fgji,  and,  with  ref.  to  this  very  pass,  it  is  said, 
'one's  old  learning  being  thorough,  again  constant- 
ly to  practise  it,  is  called  jM .'  Mod.  comm.  say 

that  the  'new  learning  is  in  the  old/  The  idea 
probably  is  that  of  assimilating  old  acquisitions 
and  new,  the  mind's  harmonizing  them.    Camp. 

rp  0,  xxvii.  i. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


14 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


E, 


m  1 1AL 
=f  %  J-  it  =f 


it 


T 

:* 


Chapter  XII.  The  Master  said,  "  The  accomplished  scholar  is 
not  an  utensil." 

Chapter  XIII.  Tsze-kung  asked  what  constituted  the  supe- 
rior man.  The  Master  said,  "He  acts  before  he  speaks,  and  after- 
wards speaks  according  to  his  actions." 

Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  is  catho- 
lic and  no  partizan.     The  mean  man  is  a  partizan  andfaiot  catholic." 

Chapter  XV.  The  Master  said,  "  Learning  without  thought  is 
labour  lost;  thought  without  learning  is  perilous." 

Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "  The  study  of  strange  doctrines 
is  injurious  indeed  I" 


12.  THS  GENERAL    APTITUDE    OP   THE  KstTN- 

Tszz.  This  is  not  like  our  Eng.  saying,  that 
'such  a  man  is  a  machine,' — a  blind  instrument. 
A  utensil  has  its  particular  use.  It  answers 
for  that  and  no  other.  Not  so  with  the  superi- 
or man,  who  is  ad  omnia  paratus. 

18.    HOW   WITH  THE    SUPERIOR    MAN    WORDS 

follow  actions.  The  reply  is  literally; — 'He 
first  acts  his  words  and  afterwards  follows  them.' 
A  translator's  dime,  is  with  the  latter  clause. 

What  is  the  antecedent  to  £?  It  would  seem 

to  be  EL  ^ft  but  in  that  case  there  is  no  room 
for  words  at  all.  Nor  is  there  according  to  the 
old  coram.  In  the  interpretation  I  hare  given, 
Choo  He  follows  the  famous  Chow  Leen-k*e, 

14.  The  difference  between  the  Kbun- 


TSZE  AND   THE   SMALL   MAN. 


Jfr 


here  low.  3d 


tone,  'partial,'  'partizanly.'  The  sent  is  tins— 
4  With  the  Keun-teze,  it  is  principles  not  men; 
with  the  small  man,  the  reverse.' 

15.  AN    LEARNING,    READING     AND    THOUGHT 

must  be  combined.  |^j,  'a  net,*  used  also  In 
the  sense  of  'not,'  as  an  adverb,  and  here  a* 
an  adj.    The  old  comm.  makes  S£,  'perikmi,' 

simply  ■='  wearisome  to  the  body.' 

16.  Strange  doctrines   are  not   to   it 

studied.  JPJ£,  often  'to  attack,'  as  an  enemy, 
here='to  apply  one's-self  to,'  (to  study.'  JB. 
*  correct;'  then,  *  beginnings,'  'first  principles;* 
here»(doctrines.'  fy  £^,  as  in  L  H.  In 
Conf.  time  Buddhism  was  not  in  China,  and  we 
can  hardly  suppose  him  to  intend  Taoman. 
Indeed,  we  are  ignorant  to  what  doctrines  he  re- 
ferred, but  his  maxim  is  of  gen.  application, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECT8. 


15 


*  w  ^  ft  *  *  #  ft 
£  *  S>  I  ^ •    7  5 


Chapter  XVII.  The  Master  said,  "Yew,  shall  I  teach  you 
ffhat  knowledge  is?  When  you  know  a  thing,  to  hold  that  you 
know  it;  and  when  you  do  not  know  a  thing,  to  allow  that  you  do 
not  know  it; — this  is  knowledge." 

Chapter  XVIII.  1.  Tsze-chang  was  learning  with  a  view  to 
official  emolument. 

2.  "The  Master  said,  "  Hear  much  and  put  aside  the  points  of 
which  you  stand  in  doubt,  while  you  speak  cautiously  at  the  same 
time  of  the  others: — then  you  will  afford  few  occasions  for  blame. 
See  much  and  put  aside  the  things  which  seem  perilous,  while  you 
are  cautious  at  the  same  time  in  carrying  the  others  into  practice: 
—then  you**rlll  have  few  occasions  for  repentance.  When  one 
gives  few  occasions  for  blame  in  his  words,  and  few  occasions  for 
repentance  in  his  conduct,  he  is  in  the  way  to  get  emolument." 


17.   There  should  bs  no  phetence  in  the 
nofwsioh  of  knowledge,  or  the  denial  of 

ioxorance.  tit,  by  surname  MU,  and  gener- 
ally known  by  his  designation  of  Ttze-loo 
(-J*  £§),  was  one  of  the  most  famous  disciples 
of  Confucius,  and  now  occupies  in  the  temples 
fa  4th  place  east  in  the  sage's  own  hall.  He  was 
aoted  for  his  courage  and  forwardness,  a  man 
tf  impulse  rather  than  reflection.  Conf.  had 
foretold  that  he  would  come  to  an  untimely 
tad,  and  so  it  happened.  He  was  killed  through 
ou  own  rashness  in  a  revolution  in  the  state  of 
JJfa.  The  tassel  of  his  cap  being  cut  off  when 
•V Teemed  his  death-wound,  he  quoted  a  say- 
*ff— *The  superior  man  must  not  die  without 
ii>  cap,'  tied  on  the  tassel,  adjusted  the  cap, 

w  expired.    This  action 


*■  much  lauded.  Of  the  six  ^|t,  the  1st  and 
4&  are  knowledge  subjective,  the  other  four 
^knowledge  objective.    The  first  fa\  £  = 

J&\Z<Z $!£•  fr  A*  otoe*  two  cases,  ^  = 


'any  one  thing.'  ^g= J£j[  ^g,  'to  take  to  be,'  to 
consider/  'to  allow.'  oh%  thus  marked  with  a 
tone,  is  used  for  !ffr,  'you.' 

18.    The  end  in  lsabnino  should  be  one's 
own  improvement,  and  not  emolument.     1. 

Tsze-chang,  named  g|g,  with  the  double  sur- 

name  jjjjjpj  Jj5£,  a  native  of  Chin  (|jj[),  was  not 
undistinguished  in  the  Confucian  school.  Tsze- 
kung  praised  him  as  a  man  of  merit  without 
boasting,  humble  in  a  high  position,  and  not 
arrogant  to  the  helpless.  From  this  ch.,  how- 
ever,  it  would  appear  that  inferior  mot.  did 

sometimes  rule  him.  ifi»='was  learning,'  i.  «^ 
at  some  particular  time.  -=J1=^,  'to  seek 
for.'  2.  B9  is  explained  in  the  comm.  as  in 
transl.,— ^j£  ik.  jg,  but  this  mean,  of  it  to 

not  found  in  the  Diet.    jj&  ffi  ^  tft. 

'  Emolument  is  herein,'  /.  e,.  it  will  come  without 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


16 


COXFUCIAS   AKALECT8. 


m  m  m  &  m  *  n  k  i 
ft    #  &$i  t  sij  m  =f  ® 

£    ffiMBM    ft  a: « 

Chapter  XIX.  The  duke  Gae  asked,  saying,  u  What  should  l>e 
done  in  order  to  secure  the  submission  of  tlie  people?"  Confucin* 
replied,  "Advance  the  upright  and  set  aside  the  crooked,  then  the 
people  will  submit.  Advance  the  crooked  and  set  aside  the  up* 
right,  then  the  people  will  not  submit." 

Chapter  Xa.  Ke  K'ang  asked  how  to  cause  the  people  to 
reverence  their  ruler,  to  be  faithful  to  him,  and  to  urge  themselves 
to  virtue.  The  Master  said,  "  Let  him  preside  over  them  with 
gravity; — then  they  will  reverence  him.  Let  him  be  filial  and 
kind  to  all; — then  they  will  be  faithful  to  him.  Let  him  advance 
the  good  and  teach  the  incompetent; — then  they  will  eagerly  seek 
to  be  virtuous." 

Chapter  XXL  1.  Some  one  addressed  Confucius,  saying,  "Sir, 
why  are  you  not  engaged  in  the  government?" 

seeking;  the  individual  U  on  the  way  to  it.  The  j  people-soother,'  was  the  honorary  epithet  cf 


lesson  is  that  we  are  to  do  what  is  right,  and  not 
be  anxious  about  temporal  concerns. 

19.      HOW   A   PRIlfi'B  BT  THE   BIGHT  BMPLOT- 

mnir  of  his  officer*  mat  sbcuhe  thb  real 
submission  or  his  »ubje;ts.      Gae  was  the 

honorary  epithet  of  ^L  duke  of  Loo  (B.  C. 
494-367).  Conf.  died  in  his  16th  year.  Accord, 
to  the  laws  for  posthumous  titles,  jg£  denotes 
'the  respectful  and  benerolent,  early  cut  off.* 
]j£  ^='The  to-be-lamented  duke.'  ^, 
up.  3d  tone,= jj|,  'to  set  aside/gf  is  partly 
euphonious,  but  also  indicates  the  pluraL    ~Z\j 

^f*  HI*  0»  <The  philosopher  K'ung  replied.' 
Here,  for  the  first  time,  the  sage  is  called  by  his 
surname,  and,  $£k  is  used,  as  indicating  the 
reply  of  an  inferior  to  a  superior. 

20.    Example  in  mjpebiors  is  more  power- 
ful than  iobce.    Rang,  'easy  and  pleasant, 


Ke-sun  Fei  (§£),  the  head  of  one  of  the  three 
great  families  of  Loo;  see  ch.  5.  His  idea  is 
seen  in  fifi,  'to  cause,1  the  power  of  force;  that 

of  Conf.  appears  in  H||,  'then,'  the  power  of 

influence.    In  j£j[  Eft,   W   is  said  to=fiL 

'together  with,'  'mutually.'  Kf,  'to  adrise,' 
'to  teach/  has  also  in  the  Diet,  the  meaning-*  to 
rejoice  to  follow,'  which  is  its  force  here,  l£ 

^|p,  'the  practice  of  goodness,'  being  voder- 
stood. 
21.    Confucius'  explanation  op   his  not 

being  in  ant  office.   1. 


surname  indie,  that  the  questioner  was  not  a 
disciple.  Conf.  had  his  reason  for  not  being  in 
office  at  the  time,  but  it  was  not  expedient  to 
telL  He  replied  therefore,  as  in  par.  2.  2.  S* 
Shoo-king  xxii.  1.  But  the  text  is  neither  cor- 
rectly applied  nor  exactly   quoted.    The  old 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN    ANALECTS. 


17 


^f iftUt  £  ^  »  #  #  a. 


JKffl 
J** 


*ml  a  its  *  ^ 

fa¥*§    ft)L# 


2.  The  Master  said,  "What  does  the  Shoo-king  say  of  filial 
pietv  ? — '  You  are  filial,  you  discharge  your  brotherly  duties.  These 
qualities  are  displayed  in  government.'  This  then  also  constitute* 
the  exercise  of  government  Why  must  there  be  that  to  make  one 
be  in  the  government" 

Chapter  XXIL  The  Master  said,  "  I  do  not  know  how  a  man 
without  truthfulness  is  to  get  on.  How  can  a  large  carriage  be 
made  to  go  without  the  cross  bar  for  yoking  the  oxen  to,  or  a  small 
carriage  without  the  arrangement  for  yoking  the  horses?" 

Chapter  XXIIL  1.  Tsze-chang  asked  whether  the  affairs  of 
ten  ages  after  could  be  known. 

2.  Confucius  said,  "  The  Yin  dynasty  followed  the  regulations 
of  the  Hea:  wherein  it  took  from  or  added  to  them  may  be  known. 
The  Chow  dynasty  has  followed  the  regulations  of  the  Yin:  where- 
in it  took  from  or  added  to  them  may  be  known.  Some  other  may 
follow  the  Chow,  but  though  it  be  should  be  at  the  distance  of  a 
hundred  ages,  its  affairs  may  be  known." 


inter,  read  in  one  sentence  2E  3d  wk  -jgjr,  <0 
filial  piety!  nothing  but  filial  piety! '  Choo  He, 
however,  pauses  at  i&,  and  commences  rightly 

the  quotation  with  |||  2£.  A  western  may 
think  that  the  philosopher  might  hare  made 
•  happier  erasion.    ||  ^  ^  ^  jj£,  the 

ltt-g^^jl  ^§J,  and  jt  referring  to  the 

thought  in  the  man's  question,  that  office  was 
necessary  to  one's  being  in  government 

22.  Tub  vecessitt  to  a  man  op  being  truth- 
»cx  and  sincere.  K£  and  S/[  are  explained 
in  the  Diet,  in  the  same  way — 'the  cross  bar  at 
the  end  of  the  carriage  pole/  But  there  was  a 
deference.  Choo  He  says,  'la  the  light  carriage 


the  end  of  the  pole  curved  upwards,  and  th* 
cross  bar  was  suspended  from  a  hook.'  This 
would  give  it  more  elasticity. 

23.  The  great  principles  governing  soci- 
ety are  unchangeable.  1.  4j£  may  be  taken 

as  an  age*='a  century,'  or  as  a  generations^ 
years,  which  is  its  radical  meaning,  being  form* 

ed  from  three  ten*  and  one  (-§-§-§•  and  — ).    Both 

meanings  are  in  the  Diet.  Conf.  made  no  pre* 
tension  to  supernatural  powers,  and  all  comm. 
are  agreed  that  the  things  here  asked  about 
were  not  what  we  would  call  contingent  or  in- 
different events.  He  merely  says  that  the  great 
principles  of  morality  and  relations  of  society 
had  continued  the  same  and  would  ever  do  so, 
-|j^:«ipi.  2.    The   Hea,  Yin,  and  Chow  are 

now  fpoken  of  at  the  ^£  &\    'The  thre© 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


18 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


4LS&R<l!zJI£«l9& 


*2£ 


Chapter  XXIV.  1.     The  Master  said,   "  For  a  man  to  sacrifice 
to  a  spirit  which  does  not  belong  to  him  is  flattery." 

2.     To  see  what  is  right  and  not  to  do  it  is  want  of  courage." 

of  which  a  man  may  say  that  they  are  his,  are 
those  only  of  his  ancestors,  and  to  them  only  be 
may  sacrifice.   The  ritual  of  China  provides  for 

sacrifices  to  three  classes  of  objects — ^£  flfc' 

Mfa  *F»  A  &'  <8PWts  <*  bearen,  of  the 
earth,  of  men.'    This  ch.  is  not  to  be  extended 


changes,'  t.  s^  the  three  great  dynasties.  TJie  first 
Emperor  of  the  Hea  was  'The  great  Yu/  B.  C. 
2204,  of  the  Yiu,  T*ang,  B.  C.  1765,  and  of 
Chow,  Woo,  B.  C.  1121. 
24.    Neither  in  sacrifice  nor  ih  other 

PRACTICE  MAY  A  MAK   DO    AXYTH12CG  BUT  WHAT 

is  right.    1.  ^  Jffy  Q  ^,  'The  human 
spirit  (i.6^  of  the  dead)  is  called^.'  TheJ^ 


to  all  the  three.    It  has  reference  only  to  the 
manes  of  departed  men. 


BOOK  III.  PA  YIH. 


£  %  "pT  ft  A I 


&„%& 


pT4,^H^T 


Chapter  I.  Confucius  said  of  the  head  of  the  Ke  family,  who  had 
eight  rows  of  pantomimes  in  his  area,  "If  he  can  bear  to  do  this, 
what  may  he  not  bear  to  do?" 

ken  of,  and  not  her  $£.  Originally  the  Jj^ 
appears  to  hare  been  used  to  denote  the  branch 
families  of  one  surname.  Jyf  J3^,  'The  Ke 
family,'  with  special  reference  to  its  head,  $Tk$ 
Ke/  as  we  should  say.  foy  'a  row  of  dancers/ 
or  pantomimes  rather,  who  kept  time  in  the 
temple  services,  in  the  ffi£,  the  front  space  be- 
fore the  raised  portion  in  the  principal  hsU, 
moving  or  brandishing  feathers,  flags,  or  other 
articles.  In  his  ancestral  temple,  the  Emperor 
had  8  rows,  each  row  consisting  of  eight  men, 
a  duke  or  prince  had  «.  and  a  great  officer  onl/ 
4.    For  the  Kc,  therefore,  to  use  &  rows  wa*  a 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Heading  of  this  Book. — 

The  last  book  treated  of  the  practice  of  govern 
meat,  and  therein  no  things,  according  to  Chi-  j 
nese  ideas,  are  more  important  than  ceremonial 
rites  and  music.  With  those  topies  therefore, 
the  twenty  six  chapters  of  this  book  are  occupi- 
ed, and  *  eight  rows/  the  principal  words  in  the 
first  chapter,  are  adopted  as  its  heading. 

1.    Confucius'  indignation  at  the  usurpa- 
tion of  imperial  rites.  3?  J3^»  by  contraction 

for^MSU^5  -eeIL  5'  fk  *nd  ^arenow 
used  without  distinction,  meaning  *  surname,' 
only  that  the  J^  of  a  woman  i»  always  spo- 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


19 


■S*.B  *£;■#& 

.f#t;iliifPf  = 


Chapter  II.  The  three  families  used  the  yung  ode,  while  the 
vessels  were  being  removed,  at  the  conclusion  of  the  sacrifice.  The 
Master  said,  "  '  Assisting  are  the  princes ; — the  emperor  looks  pro- 
found and  grave :' — what  application  can  these  words  have  in  the 
hall  of  the  three  families?" 

Chapter  III.     The  Master  said,  "If  a  man  be  without  the  virtues 

{>roper  to  humanity,  what  has  he  to  do  with  the  rites  of  propriety? 
f  a  man  be  without  the  virtues  proper  to  humanity,  what  has  he 
to  do  with  music?"  ^ 

Chapter  IV.  Lin  Fang  asked  what  was  the  first  thing  to  be 
attended  to  in  ceremonies. 

2.     The  Master  said,  "A  great  question  indeed !" 


usurpation,  for  tho'  it  mar  be  argued,  that 
to  the  ducal  family  of  Loo  imperial  rites  were 
conceded,  and  that  the  offshoots  of  it  (II.  5) 
might  use  the  same,  still  great  officers  were 
ccafined  to  the  ordinances  proper  to  their  rank. 

|H  is  used  here,  as  frequently,  in  the  sense — 
'  to  speak  of.'  Conf.  remark  may  also  be  trans- 
lated, 'If  this  be  endured,  what  may  not  be 
endured  ? *  And  this  is  probably  the  correct  in- 
terpretation, for  there  is  force  in  the  observations 

of  the  author  of  the  jjtj  ^j£  j|  |j:,  that 
this  remark  and  the  following  must  be  assigned 
to  the  sage  during  the  short  time  that  he  held 
high  office  in  Loo. 
2.    Again  against  usubped  bits*.    ^jj£ 

5&.  'Tko*  belonging  to  the  three  families.' 
They  assembled  together,  as  being  the  descend- 
ants of  duke  Hwan  (II.  6),  in  one  temple.  To 
Mils  temple  belonged  the  j^|  in  the  last  chn 

which  is  called  3?  J3^  J§|»  because  circumstan- 
ces had  concurred  to  make  the  Ke  the  chief  of 
the  three  families;  see  |rtj  §  $£  $§S  viii.7. 
For  the  Tung  ode,  see  She-king,  IT.  ii.  Ode.  list 
7.    It  was,  properly,  sung  in  the  imperial  temples 

sif  the  Chow  dynasty,  at  the  jjfe  'the  clearing 

sway,'  of  the  sacrificial  apparatus,  and  contains 
the  lines  quoted  by  Confucius,  which  of  course 
imre  friH  jMPfrafriate  to  the  circumstances 


of  the  three  families.    JJJj?,— up.  4th  tone,  with* 

out  an  aspirate.    iff, — up.  8d  tone, '  assistant,* 
•assisting/ 
8.    Cbbbmoxibs  akd  music  tain  without 

yibtub.  £2,  see  I.  2.  I  don't  know  how  to 
render  it  here,  otherwise  than  in  the  transla. 
Comm.  define  it — jQ  jj£*  ^^  ^fi, 4  the  entire 

rirtue  of  the  heart.'    As  referred  to  jfl||,  it 
indicates  the  feeling  of  reverence ;  as  referred 
to  gfe  (gd)y  it  indicates  harmoniousness. 
4.    The  object  of  cbbemonibs  should  bb- 

OULATB  THEM :— AGAINST  FORMALISM*       1.     Litt 

Fang,  styled  -^*  J3J,  was  a  man  of  Loo,  sup- 
posed to  have  been  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  and 
whose  tablet  is  now  placed  first,  on  the  west,  in 
the  outer  court  of  the  temples.  He  is  known 
only  bv  the  question  in  this  ch.  Ace.  to  Choo 
He,  jfit  here  is  not  ^  ^fc,  'the  radical  idea/ 

'the  essence;'  but  as  jjtj],  'the  beginning,'  op* 

posed  to  ^=-='  the  first  thing  to  be  attended  to.' 

8.  jgfi  has  not  the  gen.  meaning  of  the  char,  in 

the  1st  par.    As  opposed  to  3ft  (up.  1st  tone), 

it  must  indicate  the  festive  or  fortunate  (i|f ) 
ceremoiiies>--capping,  marriage,  and  sacrifices. 


20 


OOOTCCIAN  ANALECTS. 


3.  In  festive  ceremonies,  it  is  better  to  be  sparing  than  extravagant. 
In  the  ceremonies  of  mourning,  it  is  better  that  there  be  deep  sorrow 
than  a  minute  attention  to  observances." 

Chapter  V.  The  Master  said,  "The  rude  tribes  of  the  east  and 
north  have  their  princes,  and  are  not  like  the  States  of  our  great 
land  which  are  without  them." 

Chapter  VI.  The  chief  of  the  Ke  family  was  about  to  sacrifice  to 
the  T'ae  mountain.  The  Master  said  to  Yen-yew,  "  Can  you  not 
save  him  from  this?"  He  answered,  "I  cannot."  Confucius  said, 
u  Alas !  will  you  say  that  the  T'ae  mountain  is  not  so  discerning  as 
Lin  Fang?" 


f£,  read  €,  low  8d  tone.    Choo  He  explains  it 

by  $&,  as  in  Mcncius- j£  Jt  gj  |f|,  'to 
cleanse  and  dress  the  fields,*  and  interprets  as 
in  the  transl.  The  old  comm.  take  the  mean- 
ing— jRp  Jj&y  'harmony  and  ease,*  ie,  not 
being  overmuch  troubled. 

6.  The  anarchy  of  Confucius'  timb.  The 
|££  were  the  barbarians  on  the  east  of  China, 
and  3^,  those  on  the  north.     See  |g  gg, 

the  barbarous  tribes  about  China  generally. 
fUf  @  *8  a  name  *or  China  because  of  the 
multitude  of  its  people  ( j^J)»  *nd  its  grtalness 
(H).  4£  If,  'The  flowery  and  great,'  is 
still  a  common  designation  of  it.  Choo  He 
takes  -hfH  as  simply™^,  and  hence  the  senti- 
ment in  the  transl.  Ho  An's  comm.  is  to  this 
effect :— *  The  rude  tribes  with  their  princes  arc 
still  not  equal  to  China  with  its  anarchy.'  "£j, 
read  as,  and=^E. 

6.  On  the  folly  of  usurpkd  sacrifices.  }g£ 
is  said  to  be  the  name  appropriate  to  sacrifices 


to  mountains,  but  we  find  it  applied  also  to  sac* 
rifices  to  God.    The  T4ae  mountain  is  the  first 

of  the  'five  mountains'  (^j£  Mjk}>  w&ich  arc 
celebrated  in  Chinese  literature,  and  have  always 
received  religious  honours.  It  was  in  Loo,  or 
rather  on  the  borders  between  Loo  and  Ta^e, 
about  2  miles  north  of  the  present  district  city 
of  T'ae-gan  (^St  4af  )>  in  the  department  of 
Tse-nan  (^S  p&),  in  Shan-tung.  According 
to  the  ritual  of  China,  sacrifice  could  only  be 
offered  to  these  mountains  by  the  emperor,  and 
princes  in  whose  States  any  of  them  happened 
to  be.  For  the  chief  of  the  Ke  family,  there- 
fore, to  sacrifice  to  the  Tae. mountain,  was  a 
great  usurpation.  ti£g  as  in  II.  7,=*ftT,  and  w 

as  in  II.  8,=  B|],  or  we  may  take  it  a'=^» 

'Have you  said,' &c.  ^^lj=^llj^i$, 
'  The  spirit  of  the  T*ae  mountain.'  Lin  Fang,— 
sec  ch.  4,  from  which  the  reason  of  this  refe- 
rence to  him  may  be  understood.  Yen  Yew, 
named  (>JC)»  and  by  designation  "¥'^§>  ^** 
one  of  the  disciples  of  Conf.,  and  is  now  third, 
in  the  hall,  on  the  west.  He  entered  the  ser- 
vice of  the  Ke  family,  and  was  a  man  of  ability 
and  resources. 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


21 


ns 


w  &  a  ^  m  T^w  4  =f- 
^n^m^ _ 

"i*  T  *  £  #  ^ .  *h  4*. 


Chaptbr  VII.  The  Master  said,  "The  student  of  virtue  has  no 
contentions*  If  it  be  said  he  cannot  avoid  them,  shall  this  be  in 
archery?  But  he  bows  complaisantly  to  his  competitors;  thus  he  ascends 
the  halt,  descends,  and  exacts  the  forfeit  of  drinking.  In  his  conten- 
tion, he  is  still  the  Keun-tsze." 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  Tsze-hea  asked,  saying,  "What  is  the  meaning 
of  the  passage — 'The  pretty  dimples  of  her  artful  smile!  The  well 
defined  black  and  white  of  her  eye  I  The  plain  ground  for  the  colours'?" 

2.  The  Master  said,  "The  business  of  laying  on  the  colours  fol- 
lows the  preparation  of  the  plain  ground." 

3.  "Ceremonies  then  are  a  subsequent  thing."  The  Master  said, 
"It  is  Shang  who  can  bring  out  my  meaning!  Now  I  can  begin  to 
talk  about  tne  odes  with  him" 


#¥ 


7.  Thb  superior  man  avoids  all  contenti- 
ous striving.  Here  jg*  -p  =  fl5}  $&  <I 
^^,  'the  man  who  prefers  virtue.'    jjfc  -tfl 

lit.,  'if  he  must,  shall  it  he  archery  ?' 

,  according  to  Choo  He,  extend  over  all 

the  verbs,  4t%  T\,  g£.  "7^  is  marked  in  the 

3d  tone,  anciently  appropriate  to  it  as  a  verb. 

^jjj,  up.  3d  tone,  'to  give  to  drink,'  here=to 

exact  from  the  vanquished  the  forfeit  cup.  In 
Conf.  time  there  were  three  principal  exercises 
of  archery: — the  great  archery,  under  the  eye 
of  the  Emperor,  the  guests'  archery,  which 
might  be  at  the  imperial  court  or  at  the  visits 
of  the  princes  among  themselves,  and  the  fes- 
tive archery,  for  amusement.  The  regulations 
for  the  archers  were  substantially  the  same  in 
them  all,  and  served  to  prove  their  virtue,  in- 
stead of  giving  occasion  to  quarreling.  There 
b  no  end  to  the  controversies  among  coram,  on 
minor  points. 

8.  Ceremonies  are  secondary  and  orna- 


mental. 1.  The  sentences  quoted  by  Tsze-hea 
are  from  a  $£&  =$4,  one  of  the  poems  which 
Conf.  did  not  admit  into  the  She-king.  The 
two  first  lines,  however,  are  found  in  it,  I.  v.  8. 
The  disciple's  inquiry  turns  on  the  meaning  of 
J£j[  -Jgj  in  the  last  line,  which  he  took  to 
mean — 'The  plain  ground  is  to  be  regarded  as 
the  colouring.'  2.  Conf.,  in  his  reply,  makes 
^  a  verb,  governing  ^,=« comes  after  the 
plain  ground.'  8.  flj§  ^  3£,  Tsze-hea's  re- 
mark is  an  exclamation  rather  than  a  question. 
jj|jl  -+•  ^H",  'He  who  stirs  me  up,*='He  who 
brings  out  my  meaning.'  On  the  last  sentence, 
see  I.  15. — The  above  interpretation,  especially 
as  to  the  meaning  of  $|f  1§£  $j£  ff|>  &*** 
Choo  He,  is  quite  the  opposite  of  that  of  the 
old  interpreters.  Their  view  is  of  course 
strongly  supported  by  the  author  of  Pfl  3£ 
:,  viii.  8. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


22 


G6NFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


%  to  vt  *>=?  w  x  m  ft  . 

fa  m.  MM  U  &M  %  & 

It    B>  £o  W 


&»!£  J||f   o 

Chapter  IX.  The  Master  said,  "I  am  able  to  describe  the  ceremo- 
nies of  the  Hea  dynasty,  but  Ke  cannot  sufficiently  attest  my  word*. 
I  am  able  to  describe  the  ceremonies  of  the  Yin  dynasty,  but  Sung 
cannot  sufficiently  attest  my  words.  They  cannot  do  so  because  of  the 
insufficiency  of  their  records  and  wise  men.  If  those  were  sufficient, 
I  could  adduce  them  in  support  of  my  words." 

Chapter  X.  The  Master  said,  "At  the  great  sacrifice,  after  the 
pouring  out  of  the  libation,  I  have  no  wish  to  look  on." 

Chapter  XL  Some  one  asked  the  meaning  of  the  great  sacrifice. 
The  Master  said,  "I  do  not  know.     He  who  knew  its  meaning  would 

by  the  Emperor.  The  individual  sacrificed  to 
in  it  was  the  remotest  ancestor  from  whom  the 
founder  of  the  reigning  dynasty  traced  his  des- 
cent. As  to  who  were  his  assessors  in  the  sac* 
riflce  and  how  often  it  was  offered; — these  are 
disputed  points.     See   K*ang-he's  diet.  char. 

jffi.  Comp.   also  JJIJ  §^  §fc  £f^  ru.  8,  and 

|/g  ffttftftl.  »  An  imperial  rita, 
its  use  in  Loo  was  wrong  (see  next  ch.),  bat 
there  was  something  in  the  service  after  the 
early  act  of  libation  inviting  the  descent  of  the 
spirits,  which   more  particularly   moved    the 

anger  of  Conf.  jflj  ffi=ffi  Jfe  diff.  from 
in  1. 16. 


9.  The  decay  of  the  monuments  of  anti- 
quity. Of  Hea  and  Tin,  see  II.  28.  In  the 
small  state  of  Ke  (originally  what  is  now  the 
district  of  the  same  name  in  K<ae-fung  dep.  in 
Ho-nan,  but  in  Conf.  time  a  part  of  Shan-tung), 
the  sacrifices  to  the  emperors  of  the  Hea  dyn- 
asty were  maintained  by  their  descendants.  So 
with  the  Tin  dynasty  and  Sung,  a  part  of  the 

present  Ho-nan.  But  the  AT,'  literary  monu- 
ments' of  those  countries,  and  their  Jjft(==BF> 
so  in  the  Shoo-king,  v.  vii.  5,  et  aL)  'wise  men' 
had  become  few.  Had  Conf.  therefore  delivered 
all  his  knowledge  about  the  two  dynasties, 
he  would    have  exposed  his  truthfulness  to 

suspicion,  fi[, in  tne  8ense  of  §&  to  witness,' 
and,  at  the  end, '  to  appeal  to  for  evidence.'  The 
old  comnL,  however  takeSjJ  in  the  sense  of  JflJS", 

*  to  complete,'  and  interpret  the  whole  different- 
ly.— We  see  from  the  chapter  how  in  the  time 
of  Confucius  many  of  the  records  of  antiquity 
had  perished. 

10.  The  sage's  dissatisfaction  at  the 
want  of  propriety  of  and  in   ceremonies. 

jjjjjj  is  the  name  belonging  to  different  sacrifices, 

but  here  indicating  the  -Jr  ^3S,  'great  sacri- 
fice,' which  could  properly  be  celebrated  only 


& 


11.  The  profound  meaning  of  the  gbrat 
sacrifice.  This  ch.  is  akin  to  n.  21.  Goof. 
evades  replying  to  his  questioner,  it  being  con- 
trary to  Chinese  propriety  to  speak  in  a  country 
of  the  faults  of  its  government  or  rulers.    If  he 

had  entered  into  an  account  of  the  mg  sacri- 
fice, he  must  have  condemned  the  use  of  as 
imperial  rite  in  Loo.  jijr  '  explanation,* ■■  »»»■ 

ing.  The  antecedent  to  the  second  JJL  i*  *&* 
whole  of  the  preceding  clause: — 'The  relation 
to  the  empire  of  him  who  knew  its  meaning:— 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


2S 


=£  H  3£>  JPW  §§  ? 

Hit  »  7:  f -#n  *i 


#f  *  ££  H 


find  it  as  easy  to  govern  the  empire  as  to  look  on  this;" — pointing 
to  his  palm. 

Chapter  XII.  1.  He  sacrificed  to  the  dead,  as  if  they  were  present. 
He  sacrificed  to  the  spirits,  as  if  the  spirits  were  present. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "I  consider  my  not  being  present  at  the 
sacrifice,  as  if  I  did  not  sacrifice." 

Chapter  XIII.  1.  Wang-sun  Kea  asked,  saying,  "What  is  the 
meaning  of  the  saying,  4It  is  better  to  pay  court  to  the  furnace  than 
to  the  south-west  corner'?" 

2  The  Master  said,  "Not  so.  He  who  offends  against  Heaven 
has  none  to  whom  he  can  pray." 


Aat  would  be  as  to  look  on  this.'  Sp^  inter- 
jects**, more  than  interrogative.  TJ^jjjtJ <to 

tea.'  ~F  K,  'under  heaven,*  an  ambitions  de- 
signation for  the  Chinese  empire,  as  A  «***>f*i*n 
and  orbit  were  used  by  tbe  Greeks  and  Ko- 


12.  COWFUCIUS*  OWK    SINCERITY   IK   SACBIFI- 

owo.  l.  4&  here  is  historical  and  not  to  be 
translated  in  the  imperative.  We  have  to  sup- 
ply an  object,  to  the  first  ^££,  viz.  -4q  jjg,  the 

dead,  his  forefathers,  as  contrasted  with  jfljfj  in 
fl*  next  clause,«all  the  'spirits'  to  which  in 
his  official  capacity  he  would  have  to  sacrifice. 

2.  Oba.  ^j£  in  low  3d  tone,  'to  be  present  at,' 
'to  take  part  in.' 

18.  That  thbub  is  wo  resource  against 
tux  coxsbque2yce8  of  violating  tbe  right. 
1.  Kea  was  a  great  officer  of  Wei  0{8f  ),  and 
having  the  power  of  the  state  in  his  hands  in- 
sinuated to  Confucius  that  it  would  be  for  his 
advantage  to  pay  court  to  him.  The  ]fe,  or 
south  west  comer,  was  from  the  structure  of 
ancient  houses  the  cosiest  nook,  and  the  place 
of  honour*  Choo  He  explains  the  proverb  by 


reference  to  the  customs  of  sacrifice.  The  fur* 
nace  was  comparatively  a  mean  place,  but  when 
the  spirit  of  the  fnrnace  was  sacrificed  to,  then 
the  rank  of  the  two  places  was  changed  for  the 
time,  and  the  proverb  quoted  was  in  vogue. 
But  there  does  not  seem  much  force  in  this  ex- 
planation. The  door,  or  tretf,  or  any  other  of  the 
five  things  in  the  regular  sacrifices,  might  take 
the  place  of  the  Jurnace.  The  old  explanation 
which  makes  no  reference  to  sacrifice  is  sim- 
pler. JzL  might  be  the  more  retired  and  hon- 
ourable place,  but  the  Sf  was  the  more  import- 
ant for  the  support  and  comfort  of  the  household. 
The  prince  and  his  immediate  attendants  might 
be  more  honourable  than  such  a  minister  as  Kea* 
but  more  benefit  might  be  got  from  him.  4B, 
from  woman  and  eyebrows,^ to  ogle,'  'to  flat- 
ter.' 2.  Confucius'  reply  was  in  a  high  tone. 
Choo  He  says,  ^C^J^E*lfc» <Heaven  means 
principle.'  But  why  should  Heaven  mean  prin. 
ciple,  if  there  were  not  in  such  a  use  of  the 
term  an  instinctive  recognition  of  a  supreme 
government  of  intelligence  and  righteousness? 

We  find  ^  explained  in  the  $fa  |£  |j£  by 

J§5  Wi  1-E  Jt  #  <The  loft? one  whoi(l 

on  high.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


24 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


at  % 

% 


g,  =f  4o  m  m  f  ^ 

H.  £  J&  3£  "M 
f  f-  *  «.  ^ 
H  &  *       = 

£   it    ^0  f^ 

B  *.  «       * 

IA0,      IK 


Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  "Chow  had  the  advantage  of 
viewing  the  two  past  dynasties.  How  complete  and  elegant  are  its 
regulations!  I  follow  Chow." 

Chapter  XV.  The  Master,  when  he  entered  the  grand  temple, 
asked  about  every  thing.  Some  one  said,  "Who  will  say  that  the  son 
of  the  man  of  Tsow  knows  the  rules  of  propriety.  He  has  entered  the 
grand  temple  and  asks  about  every  thing."  The  Master  heard  the 
remark,  and  said,  "This  is  a  rule  of  propriety." 

Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "In  archery  it  is  not  going 
through  the  leather  which  is  the  principal  thing; — because  peopled 
strength  is  not  equal.   This  was  the  old  way." 


14.  The  completeness  and  elegance  of 

THE  INSTITOTiONS   OF   THE   CHOW   DYNASTY.  By 

the  J$  we  are  iPeciallv  to  undersand  the 
founders  of  the  power  and  polity  of  the  dynas- 
ty—the kings  Wan  and  Woo,  and  the  duke  of 
Chow.  The  two  past  dynasties  are  of  course 
the  Hea  and  the  Shang  or  Yin.  "aT  is  an  adj. 

15.  Confucius  in  the  grand  temple.  -It  (== 
^£)  |§§  waB  the  temple  dedicated  to  the  duke 
of  Chow  (^jj  ^),  and  where  he  was  worship- 
ped with  imperial  rites.  The  thing  is  supposed 
to  have  taken  place,  at  the  begin,  of  Conf.  offi- 
cial service  in  Loo,  when  he  went  into  the  tem- 
ple with  other  officers  to  assist  at  the  sacrifice. 
He  had  studied  all  about  ceremonies,  and  was 
famed  for  his  knowledge  of  them,  but  he  thought 
it  a  mark  of  sincerity  and  earnestness  to  make 
minute  inquiries  about  them  on  the  occasion 


spoken  of.  =0}  was  the  name  of  the  town  in 

Loo  of  which  Conf.  father  had  been  governor, 
who  was  known  therefore  as  'the  man  of  Tsow.' 
We  may  suppose  that  Conf.  would  be  styled  a$ 
in  the  text,  only  in  his  early  life,  or  by  very 
ordinary  people. 

16.   HOW  THE  ANCIENTS  MADE  ABCHERY  A  DIfrr 

cipline  of  virtue.  We  are  not  to  understand 
Wi  ^fi  i  BL  °*  ***  archery  among  the  an* 

cients.    The  char,  are  found  in  the ' 

^|J  ftf*>  P**.  315,  preceded  by  the  char. 
There  were  trials  of  archery  where  the  strength 
was  tested.    Probably  Conf.  was  speaking  of 

the  jjjB  Sa*  of  his  times,  when  the  strength 

which  could  go  through  the  tip,  'skin,'  or  lea- 
ther, in  the  middle  of  the  target,  was  esteemed 
more  than  the  skill  which  could  hit  it. 


i 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


25 


mm 


a*B*U»g- 


A 


Chapter  XVII.  1.  Tsze-kung  wished  to  do  away  with  the  offer- 
ing of  a  sheep  connected  with  the  inauguration  of  the  first  day  of 
each  month. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "Tsze,  you  love  the  sheep;  I  love  the 
ceremony." 

Chapter  XVIII.  The  Master  said,  "The  full  observance  of  the 
rules  of  propriety  in  serving  one's  prince  is  accounted  by  people  to 
be  flattery. 

Chapter  XIX  The  duke  Ting  asked  how  a  prince  should  employ 
his  ministers,  and  how  ministers  should  serve  their  prince.  Con- 
fucius replied,  "A  prince  should  employ  his  ministers  according  to 
the  rules  of  propriety;  ministers  should  serve  their  prince  with 
faithfulness. " 

Chapter  XX.  The  Master  said,  "The  Kwan  Ts'eu  is  expressive 
of  enjoyment  without  being  licentious,  and  of  grief  without  being 
hurtfufiy  excessive." 


17.    How    CONFUCIUS    CLEATED    TO  ANCIENT 

Kncs.  1.  The  emperor  in  the  last  month  of  the 
year  gare  out  to  the  princes  a  calendar  for  the 
l»t  days  of  the  12  months  of  the  year  ensuing. 
Thii  wis  kept  in  their  ancestral  temples,  and  on 
the  Ut  of  every  month,  they  offered  a  sheep 
*n<J  announced  the  day,  requesting  sanction  for 
the  dudes  of  the  month.  This  idea  of  requeet- 
**f  tanction  is  indicated  by  4fr,  read  kith,  up. 
^  tone.  The  dukes  of  Loo  neglected  now  their 
jjrt  of  this  ceremony,  but  the  sheep  was  still 
offered:--*  meaningless  formality,  it  seemed  to 
Ttte-kung.  Conf.,  however,  thought  that  while 
**?  part  of  the  oer.  was  retained,  there  was  a 


a  sheep  killed  but  not  roasted.  2.  W,  in  thai 

sense  of  ^  <fj|,  'to  grudge,'  it  is  said.    Bat 
this  is  hardly  necessary. 

18.  How    PRINCES    SHOULD    BE     SERVED:— 

Against  thb  spirit  of  the  times, 

19.  The  ouiding  principles  in  thb  rela- 
tion of  prince  and  minister.  Ijjtf,  'Greatly 
anxious,  tranquillizer  of  the  people,'  was  the) 
posthumous  epithet  of  ^te,  prince  of  Loo,  B.C, 

**-494,    iW  £  jSf,  'As  it  what,'  £  re- 
ferring to  the  two  points  inquired  about. 

20.  The  praise  of  the  first  of  the  odes, 

fifi  Hf£  is  the  name  of  the  first  ode  in  the 


tetter  chance  of  restor.  the  whole.  £Jj ,  up.  Sd 

***>  »n  act  verb,  'to  put  away.'   It  isdisputed  ,  ^  ,  -  _  _     A       .      _      t_ 

•k^u^^   .     ;.  ».  •      .  She-king,  and  maybe  translated.— 'The  miu> 

Wbcr  m  m  ***  tcxi>  mean  a  ^  lhc*  or  >  muring  of  the  teW   See  ghe-king,  L  L  1. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


10 


CONTUCIAH  ANALECTS. 


¥A 


TF 


MX:®* 


PJ3 


Chapter  XXI.  The  duke  Gae  asked  Tsae  Go  about  the  altars 
of  the  spirits  of  the  land.  Tsae  Go  replied,  "The  Hea  sovereign 
used  the  pine  tree;  the  man  of  the  Yin  used  the  cypress;  and  the 
man  of  the  Chow  used  the  chestnut  tree,  meaning  thereby  to  cause 
the  people  to  be  in  awe." 

2,  When  the  Master  heard  it,  he  said,  "Things  that  are  done,  it 
is  needless  to  speak  about;  things  that  have  had  their  course,  it  is 
needless  to  remonstrate  about;  things  that  are  past,  it  is  needless  to 
blame." 

Chapter  XXII.  The  Master  said,  "Small  indeed  was  the  capa- 
city of  Kwan  Chung!" 

2.  Some  one  said,  "Was  Kwan  Chung  parsimonious?"  "Kwan," 
was  the  reply,  "had  the  San  Kwei,  and  his  officers  performed  no 
double  duties;  how  can  he  be  considered  parsimonious?" 


21.  A  RASH  REPLY  OP  TSAE  Go  ABOUT  THB 
ALTARS  TO  THB  8  PI  BITS  OF  THB  LAND,  AND  LA- 
MENT of  Confucius  thereon.  Jg£  4^>  iee 
II.  19.    Tsae  Go,  by  name  -^%  and  styled  -3^ 

•Jfr,  was  an  eloquent  disciple  of  the  sage,  a 
native  of  Loo.  His  place  is  the  second  west 
among  'the  wise  ones.'  Jfj%  from  7J^>  •£**» 
'spirit  or  spirits  of  the  earth,'  and  -4-,  'the 

■oil,1  means  -J^  tftljft  +» ' tne  resting  place  or 
altars  of  the  spirits  of  the  land  or  ground.'  Go 
simply  tells  the  duke  that  the  founders  of  the 
several  dynasties  planted  such  and  such  trees 
about  those  altars.    The  reason  was  that  the 

soil  suited  such  trees,  but  as  BE,  'the  chestnut 
tree,'  the  tree  of  the  existing  dynasty,  is  used 
in  the  sense  of  *^j|,  'to  be  afraid,*  he  suggested 
a  reason  for  its  planting  which  might  lead  the 
duke  to  severe  measures  against  his  people  to 
be  carried  into  effect  at  the  altars.  Comp. 
Shoo- king,  IV.  ii.  5,  'I  will  put  you  to  death 

before  the  jjjj\'  J|  Jgy  J^  is  the  Great  Yu, 


called  Jgy,  to  distinguish  him  from  Ma  pre- 
decessors, the  *J^*,  and  7S  J^,  to  distmguidi 

him  from  Jpt  who  wasj^t  Jp^,  while  they 
were  descended  from  the  same  ancestor.  See  eh. 
l,on^.  |£^aiKlJ£)A.»P«»Utto 
with  jB  Ey  J^P,  must  mean  the  founders  of 
those  dynasties;  why  they  are  simply  styled 
J^f  'man,'  or  'men,'  I  hare  not  found  dearly 
explained,  though  comm.  fed  it  necesa.  to  sat 
something  on  the  point.  2.  Tins  is  all  directed 
against  Go's  reply.  He  had  spoken,  and  his 
words  could  not  be  recalled. 

22.  Confucius'  opinio*  or  KwA*-cnuNO$— 
▲gainst  htm.    1.  Kwan-chung,  by  naae  j^J 

^-,  is  one  of  the  most  famous  names  in  Chin, 
history.  He  was  chief  minister  to  the  4nke 
|H  of  Jjf  (B.  C.  68S-540),  the  first  and  great- 
est of  the  fire  n'a  (Y6  or  jR),  leaders  of  the 
princes  of  the  empire  under  the  Chow  dynastr. 
In  the  times  of  Coat  and  Men.,  people  theugbt 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


C6OTDC1AN  ANALECTS. 


27 


J5fcJf&  pT 


IS": 


&  %  win 


3.  "Then,  did  Kwan  Chung  know  the  rules  of  propriety?"  The 
Master  said,  "The  princes  of  states  have  a  screen  intercepting  the  view 
at  their  gates.  Kwan  had  likewise  a  screen  at  his  gate.  The  princes 
of  states  on  any  friendly  meeting  between  two  of  them,  had  a  stand 
on  which  to  place  their  inverted  cups.  Kwan  had  also  such  a  stand. 
If  Kwan  knew  the  rules  of  propriety,  who  does  not  know  them?" 

Chapter  XXIII.  The  Master  instructing  the  Grand  music-master 
of  Loo  said,  "How  to  play  music  may  be  known.  At  the  commence- 
ment of  the  piece,  all  the  parts  should  sound  together.  As  it  pro* 
ceecU,  they  should  be  in  harmony,  severally  distinct  and  flowing 
without  break,  and  thus  on  to  the  conclusion." 

was  a  stand,  made  originally  of  earth  and  tnrf. 
Kwan  usurped  the  use  of  it,  as  he  did  of  the 
screen.  This  showed  him  to  he  as  regardless, 
of  prescribed  forms,  as  in  par.2  he  appears  of 
expense,  and  he  came  far  short  therefore  of  the 
Confucian  idea  of  the  Keun-tsze. 

28.    OX  THE  PLATING  OF  MUSIC.   fS?,  low.   3d 

tone,=-gf ,  'to  teiy  cto  instruct.'  ^  (='fc) 
(Jjfi  j||,  was  the  title  of  the  grand  music-mas- 
ter. ig&  jj£  pj*  $U  -{{Jj,  'music,  it  may  be 
known,'  but  the  subject  is  not  of  the  principles, 
but  the  performance  of  music.  Observe  the 
^fP.  Premare  says,  iadjertivi$  addita  sensum 
auget  et  exprimit  modutn.'  It  is  our  ly  or  like, 
— ^  #p,  *'blended-iike.'   ^,  up.  8d  tone, 

the  same  as  jj^£=Afc>  'let  go/  le.>  proceed- 
ing, swelling  on. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


more  of  Kwan,  than  those  sages,   no   hero- 

worshippers,  would  allow.   &jp  see  II.  12,  but 

Its  signif.  here  is  different,  and«=our  measure  or 

capacity.    2.  =?  SS,  in  the  Diet,  and   the 

approved  comm.  of  Choo  He,  was  the  name  of 
«n  extravagant  tower  built  by  Kwan.  There  are 
other  views  of  the  phrase,  the  oldest,  and  the 
feat  supported  appar.,  being  that  it  means 
'three  wives.'    (A  woman's  marriage  is  called 

Hfr.)    The  San  Kwei  and  having  no  pluralist* 

tokonghis  officers  proved  suff.  that  he  could 

not  be  parsimonious.    <j§,  up.  1st  tone, '  how.' 

3.  jj^g  'a  tree,'  here  in  the  sense  of  fi£,  '  a 
•creen,'  the  screen  of  a  prince,  usurped  by 
Kwan,  who  was  only  entitled  to  the  J§|  of  a 
great  officer.  ^j£  up.  8d  tonc,=^tf  ^,  'a 
friendly  meeting.'  The  £±,  from  -J^  aud  A  > 


28 


CONFUCIAK  AHALBCTS. 


Chapter  XXIV.  The  border-warden  at  E  requested  to  be  intro- 
duced to  the  Master,  saying,  "When  men  of  superior  virtue  have  come 
to  this,  I  have  never  been  denied  the  privilege  of  seeing  them."  The 
followers  of  the  sage  introduced  him,  and  when  he  came  out  from  the 
interview,  he  said,  "My  friends,  why  are  you  distressed  by  your 
master's  loss  of  office?  Ine  empire  has  long  been  without  the  principles 
cf  truth  and  right;  Heaven  is  going  to  use  your  master  as  a  bell  with 
its  wooden  tongue." 

Chapter  Xav.  The  Master  said  of  the  Shaou  that  it  was  perfect- 
ly beautiful  and  also  perfectly  good.  He  said  of  the  Woo  that  it 
was  perfectly  beautiful  but  not  perfectly  good. 

Chapter  XXVI.  The  Master  said,  "High  station  filled  without  in- 
dulgent generosity;  ceremonies  performed  without  reverence;  mourn- 
ing conducted  without  sorrow; — wherewith  should  I  contemplate 
Buch  ways?" 

24.  A  STRANGER^  YIBW  OF  THE  VOCATIOH  OF 

Confucius.  E  was  a  small  town  on  the  borders 
of  Wei,  referred  to  &  place  in  the  present  dis. 

of  IS  Wf>  deP-  §8  $£>  H<mEn  ^°y'  °°nf' 
was  retiring  from  Wei,  the  prince  of  which 

could  not  employ  him.  This  was  the  IK  (up. 
8d  tone),=^  jjfc.  The  1st  and  3d  ^  are 
read  hem,  low.  3d  tone,»jg|  <gg  ffi  ^,  'to 
introduce,'  or  'to  be  introduced.'  j£*  in  jBf^r* 

£>!£[  jfc #f  ife»  ha» it8  ProP-  P°w-  power, 
— *  In  the  case  of  a  Keun-tsze's  coming  to  this/ 
tfx,  low.  8d  tone,  '  to  attend  upon.'  <^  ^£ 
-^«,  'Two  or  three  sons,'  or  *gentlemen,'=<  my 
friends.'  The  same  idiom  occurs  elsewhere.  The 
^  &f  was  a  metal  bell  with  a  wooden 


tongue,  shaken  to  call  attention  to  i 

ments,  or  along  the  ways  to  call  people  together* 

Heaven  would  employ  Conf.  to  proclaim  and. 

call  men's  attention  to  the  truth  and  right  (£§£)• 

25.  The  comparative  merits  of  the  music 

of  Shun  akd  Woo.  t68  was  the  name  of  the 

music  made  by  Shun,  perfect  in  melody  and 

sentiment.   JT  was  the  music  of  king  Woo, 

also  perfect  in  melody,  but  breathing  the  mar- 
tial  air,  indicative  of  its  author. 

26.  The  disregard  of  what  is  essevtiai* 
vitiates  all  SERVICES.    The  meaning  of  the 

ch.  turns  upon  ^  J#~fa"  ^fj,  or  $  jgf 

5&,  •  wherewith.'   jfiT  is  ess.  to  rulers,  fi£  to 

ceremonies,  and  jS  to  mourning.    If  they  he 

wanting,  one  has  no  standpoint  to  view  what 
are  only  shams  or  semblances. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


S9 


BOOK  IV.  LE  JIN. 


Chapter  1.  The  Master  said,  "  It  is  virtuous  manners  which 
constitute  the  excellence  of  a  neighbourhood.  If  a  man  in  select- 
ing a  residence,  do  not  fix  on  one  where  such  prevail,  how  can  he 
be  wise?" 

Chapter  II.  The  Master  said,  "Those  who  are  without  virtue, 
cannot  abide  long  either  in  a  condition  of  poverty  and  hardship,  or 
in  a  condition  of  enjoyment.  The  virtuous  rest  in  virtue;  the  wise 
desire  virtue." 


Hbadwo  or  this  Book.— ^  ^  jj|  {JO.  I 

'Virtue  in  a  neighbourhood— No.  IV.'— Suchis  | 
the titleofthi* fourth  Book,  which  U  mostly  occu-  - 

pied  with  the  subject  of  f"*.  To  render  that  term 
inviriably  by  benevolence,  would  by  no  meant 
writ  many  of  the  chapters.  See  IL  1,2.  Virtue, 
***  general  term,  would  answer  better.  The 
embodiment  of  virtue  demands  an  acquaintance 
*ith  ceremonies  and  music,  treated  of  in  the 
"ft  book;  and  this,  it  is  said;  is  the  reason  why 
we  one  subject  immediately  follows  the  other. 
1.  Rule  fob  the  selection  of  a  residence. 
According  to  the  ffl  jjjB,  5  families  made  a 

^  and  5  SJ£  a  ||1 ,  which  we  might  style, 

therefore,  a  hamlet  or  village.    There  are  other 
eatimstes  of  the   number   of  its   component 

ho*eboM«'    j^,  up.  2d  tone,  a  verb, 'to  dwell 
ilL*  fa  *P>  3d  tone,  is  the  same  as  4ffl,  'wise,' 


« wisdom.'  So,  not  unfrequently,  below.  Friend- 
ship, we  have  seen,  is  for  the  aid  of  virtue  (I.  8, 
8),  and  the  same  should  be  the  object  desired 
in  selecting  a  residence. 
2.  Only  true  virtue  adapts  a  man  for  the 

varied  conditions  of  life.    *»!, '  to  bind,'  is 

used  for  what  binds,  as  an  oath,  a  covenant ; 
and  here,  the  metaphor  being  otherwise  directed, 
it  denotes  a  condition  of  poverty  and  distress. 

5j^|,  'gain,'  'profit,'  used  as  a  verb,=w>,  'to 

desire,' ' to  covet*    tJt  f"*, '  to  rest  in  virtue,* 

being  virtuous  without  effort.  ^J  £^,  'to 
desire  virtue,'  being  virtuous  because  it  is  the 
best  policy.    Obs.  how  itf*  following  4~2  and 

Qjfr  makes  those  terms  adjectives.    yj\  pT, 

'may  not,'"*  ^K  f|£,  'cannot.'  The  inability 
is  moral. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


30 


COOTUCIAH  ANALECTS. 


pre  mm  j±Vi 
hJ,  izai  tttj 
as*  M   nu 


^„*  8  *  II  ¥ ^o^-  8  T 
^«4o4, &„&> 0,     B>  A0  B> 


Ifflr. 


1£ 


Chapter  III.  The  Master  said,  "  It  is  only  the  truly  virtuous 
man,  who  can  love,  or  who  can  hate,  others." 

Chapter  IV.  The  Master  said,  "  If  the  will  be  set  on  virtue, 
there  will  be  no  practice  of  wickedness." 

Chapter  V.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Riches  and  honours  are  what 
men  desire.  If  it  cannot  be  obtained  in  the  proper  way,  they  should 
not  be  held.  Poverty  and  meanness  are  what  men  dislike.  If  it 
cannot  be  obtained  in  the  proper  way,  they  should  not  be  avoided. 

2.  "  If  a  superior  man  abandon  virtue,  how  can  he  fulfil  the 
requirements  of  that  name  ? 

3.  "The  superior  man  does  not,  even  for  the  space  of  a  single 
meal,  act  contrary  to  virtue.  In  moments  of  haste,  he  cleaves  to  it. 
In  seasons  of  danger,  he  cleaves  to  it." 


8.     ONLT  IN  THE  GOOD  MAN  ARK  EMOTIONS  OF 

love  and  hatred  RioHT.  This  ch.  containing 
an  important  truth,  is  incorporated  with  the 

^£#,*.15.  jfr  and  gj  (read  woo) 
are  both  verbs,  up.  8d  tone. 

4.  The  virtuous  will  preserves  from  all 

wickedness.  ffl—j3$b  not  merely — ' if,'  but 
'if  really.'  Comp.  the  apostle's  sentiment,  1. 
John,  iii.  9,  '  Whosoever  is  born  of  God  doth 
not  commit  sin.' 

5.  The  devotion  of  the   Keun-tszb  to 

virtue.    1.  For  the  antecedent  to  ^*  in  the 

recurring  3fl  ^*,  we  are  to  look  to  the  foli 

verbs,  J^  (up.  2d  tone)  and  ^-.    We  might 

translate  the  first  >5  J£(  jtf  fl^  ^£>  'if  they 

nannot  be  obtained,  &c/  but  this  would  not  suit 

■)  second  case.    j£  ill,  '  the  way,'  u  e^  the 


proper  way.    If  we  supply  a  nom.  to  |g  and 

•4js  it  must  be  3*  «^.— He  will  not  *  abide 
in,' nor 'go  away  from,' riches  and  honours,  2. 
3£,  read  woo,  up.  1st  tone,  'how.'  ^g,  *  name,' 
not  reputation,  but  the  name  of  a  keun-Uzt, 
which  he  bears.  8.  jjj£  f$  £  p),  'The 
space  in  which  a  meal  can  be  flushed;1  jjgj£  ^flj 

(interch.  with  ^  ?fc)  and  |pf  fftj  are  well- 
known  expressions,  the  former  for  haste  and 
contusion,  the  latter  for  change  and  danjrer, 
but  it  is  not  easy  to  trace  the  attaching  of  those 
meanings  to  the  characters.  JSI, '  to  fall  down,' 
and  Jjfc,  the  same,  but  the  for.  with  the  faceup, 
the  other  with  the  face  down,    jjfc  J^  jgr, 


Comp.  Horace's 

Digitized 


iftreitegfe 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


31 


_     s^  iw  fc  £:  H 

lit        H  Jit  >f~*  5J|  Bt 


Chapter  VL  1.  The  Master  said,  "I  have  not  seen  a  person 
who  loved  virtue,  or  one  who  hated  what  was  not  virtuous.  He 
who  loved  virtue,  would  esteem  nothing  above  it.  He  who  hated 
what  is  not  virtuous,  would  practise  virtue  in  such  a  way  that  he 
would  not  allow  any  thing  that  is  not  virtuous  to  approach  his 
person. 

2.  "  Is  any  one  able  for  one  day  to  apply  his  strength  to  virtue? 
I  have  not  seen  the  case  in  which  his  strength  would  be  insufficient. 

3.  u  Should  there  possibly  be  any  such  case,  I  have  not  seen  it." 
Chapter  VIL    The  Master  said,  "The  faults  of  men  are  char- 
acteristic of  the  class  to  which  they  belong.     By  observing  a  man's 
faults,  it  may  be  known  that  he  is  virtuous." 


6.  A  lament  because  of  the  earttt  or  the 

LOTS  OF  VIBTUE;  AMD  ENCOURAGEMENT  TO  PRAC- 
TISE virtue.    1.  The  first  four  &  belong  to 

the  verbs  m»  and  3?,  and  give  them  the  force 

of  participles.    In  jp£y|\£;  4?>  ^6*  belongs 

» ;F{r>«a*fr  %=*££$• 

Commonly,  S^^he  or  those  who,'  but  some- 
times also=<that  or  those  things  which.'  j^ 
=j(j|l,  'to  add  to.'  Morr.,  char,  jf|,  translates 
tks  sentence  wrongly— 'He  who  lores  virtue 
and  benevolence  can  have  nothing  moreaaid  in 


kis  praise.'  8.  |^f  here  is  jpfcjfe  'aparticle 
of  doubt'    ^|c>2l^=f  >  *  transpose  as  in  L  26. 

7,     A  MAN  IS  NOT  TO  BE  UTTERLY  CONDEMNED 

because  he  has  faults.  Such  is  the  senti- 
ment found  in  this  oh.,  in  which  we  may  say, 
however,  that  Con£  is  liable  to  the  charge 
brought  against  Tsze-hea,  I.  Z.  ^  ^  j|Mt& 
stands  absolutely,— 'As  to  the  faults  of  men.'  ^ 
=^^,  and  ffl^ijfcf— 'Each  man  follows 
his  class.'    Obs.  the  force  of  jfi,  'what  goes 

beyond.'  The  faults  are  the  excesses  of  the 
general  tendencies.  Comp.  Goldsmith's  line, 
'And  even  his  failings  leant  to  virtue's  a*  * 

Digitized  by  Vjv 


Hfcgl 


32 


OOOTTJCIAH  AHALECT& 


±,0,1110,^0,   a, 

lift    $&£    #>££ 

Chapter  VIII.  The  Master  said,  "  If  a  man  in  the  morning  hear 
the  right  way,  he  may  die  in  the  evening  without  regret" 

Chapter  IX.  The  Master  said,  "A  scholar,  whose  mind  is  set 
on  truth,  and  who  is  ashamed  of  bad  clothes  and  bad  food,  is  not  fit 
to  be  discoursed  with." 

Chapter  X.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man,  in  the  world, 
does  not  set  his  mind  either  for  any  thing,  or  against  any  thing; 
what  is  right  he  will  follow." 

Chapter  XI.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  thinks  of 
virtue;  the  small  man  thinks  of  comfort.  The  superior  man  thinks 
of  the  sanctions  of  law ;  the  small  man  thinks  of  favours  which  he 
may  receive." 

§£— '  to  be  discoursed  with,'  I  e,  about  j||,  or 
♦truth,'  which  perhaps  is  the  best  trmmbtfc* 
of  the  term  in  places  like  this. 

10.  Righteousness  is  tub  bulb  of  the 

Keuh-tseb's  practice.  jQ"  ^  ^  :TZ72 
'The  relation  of  the  ke**-ts*e  to  die  workV 
i.  e.,  to  all  things  presenting  themselves  to  hint. 

jgT  read  Uik,  is  explained  by  jf|.  ^T,  'to  set 

the  mind  exclusively  on.'  We  may  take  the 
last  clause  thus : — '  his  is  the  according  with, 
and  keeping  near  to  (  J^J,  low.  3d  tone, =$£* 
SB)  righteousness.'    This  gives  each  char,  its 

signification. 

11.  The  different  xnroiifes  of  the  sum- 

biobardthb  small  mar.  4s  is  here  emphstfe, 

**1  cherishes  and  plans  about.'    -J- ,  'earth,'  'tbt 

grouudVisheredefined—J^  jg  ^^'4the 
rest  or  comforts  one  dwells  amidst.*  May  it 
not  be  used  somewhat  in  our  sense  of  earthly? 
—♦thinks  of  what  is  earthly.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


8.    The  importaxcb  of  kvowhto  the  bight 
wat.    One  is  perplexed  to  translate  2J  here. 

Choo  defines  it— ^  fa  #$  £  J§  'the 
principles  of  what  is  right  in  events  and  things.' 
Better  is  the  expL  in  W#  R  tt'~~i 

m  ^  #  £  % iL*  *«  *»*•-**. 

of  action—1  which  is  in  accordance  with  our 
nature.'  Man  is  formed  for  this,  and  if  he  die 
without  coming  to  the  knowledge  of  it,  his 
death  is  no  better  than  that  of  a  beast.  One 
would  fain  recognize,  in  such  sentences  as  this, 
a  vague  apprehension  of  some  higher  truth  or 

Shi  than  Chi.  sages  have  been  able  to  propound. 

— Ho  An  takes  a  diff.  view  of  the  whole  cIl, 
and  makes  it  a  lament  of  Confucius  that  he  was 
likely  to  die  without  hearing  of  right  principles 
prevailing  in  the  world. — 'Could  I  once  hear  of 
the  prevalence  of  right  principles,  I  could  die 
the  same  evening.' 
9.    The  pursuit  of  truth  should  raise  a 

HAS  ABOVE  BEIftQ  ASHAMED  OF  POVERTY.     &L 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


33 


■  *V-  PR    it*     JL    Ftt  ztfh    A-r  f:=f::!   F*1!     M 

^0§1  laoJL^isi  m  m  m  m  A 


-AH*  ^m 


IB  IB... 


ft»y  /n 


in^^fe, 


lililS 
AM 

mm 

Chapter  XII.  The  Master  said,  "He  who  acts  with  a  constant 
view  to  his  own  advantage  will  be  much  murmured  against. " 

Chaptee  XIII.  The  Master  said,  "  Is  a  prince  able  to  govern  his 
kingdom  with  the  complaisance  proper  to  the  rules  of  propriety, 
what  difficulty  will  he  have?  If  he  cannot  govern  it  with  that 
complaisance,  what  has  he  to  do  with  the  rules  of  propriety?" 

Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  UA  man  should  say,  I  am  not 
concerned  that  I  have  no  place,  I  am  concerned  how  I  may  fit  my- 
self for  one.  I  am  not  concerned  that  I  am  not  known,  I  seek  to  be 
worthy  to  be  known." 

Chapter  XV.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Sin,  my  doctrine  is  that  of  an 
aU-pervadinff  unity."    The  disciple  Tsang  replied,  "Yes." 

2.     The  Master  went  out,  and  the  other  disciples  asked,  saying, 

12.  THB  CONSEQUENCE  OF  8BLPI8H  CONDUCT. 

Jj^  up.  2d  tone,=>ffr,  'to  accord  with,'  'to 
lie  alongside.' — 'He  who  acts  along  the  line  of 
gain.' 

13.  The  influence  in  government  of  CERE- 
MONIES    OBSERVED    IN     THEIR    PROPER    SPIRIT. 

fBLWk^rfkp>fk— ^£"theyarea 

hendiadys.  JS***  jjjfi  ^  tf ,  *  the  sincer.  and 
tabs,  of  ceivthe  spirit  of  it,  as  we  should  say. 
Csosn,  ^)  in  L  12.  ^«'/jq^  '*>  govern.1 
This  mean,  is  found  in  the  Diet  ^fR  jjjjB  '{of, 
see  ID.  8. 

14.  Advisino  to  SELF-cimvATiON.  Comp.  L 

IS.  Here,  as  there,  JK  not  being  imper.  we 
supply  a  nominative*  ffi',  'a place,'  I  e. 


an  official  situation,  fjfr  W  j^  is  to  he  com* 

15.   C0NFUCIU8*  DOCTRINE  THAT  OF  A  PERVAD- 
ING unity.    This  chap,  is  said  to  be  the  most 

profound  in  the  Lm  Yu.  1.  ^E-  0j[  — •  J£j[ 

jpj  ^ ;— To  myself  it  occurs  to  translate, 
'my  doctrines  have  one  thing  which  goes  thro, 
them,'  but  such  an  expos,  has  not  been  approv- 
ed by  any  Chin.  comm.  — -  Jyj[  "S*  j£  are 
made  to  contain  the  copula  and  predicate  of 
^ii,and^,itissaid,4g||^^(|^, 

'refers  to  all  affairs  and  all  things.'  The  2d  par. 
shows  us  clearly  enough  what  the  one  thing  or 
unity  intended  by  Conf.  was.  It  was  the  heart, 
man*s  nature,  of  which  all  the  relations  and  du- 
ties of  life  are  only  the  development  and  outgo- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


34 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


>*> 


fMJk 


h-t* 


X  #      ft  S  5fl„* 


J&# 
WE3. 

/What  do  his  words  mean?"  Tsang  said,  "The  doctrine  of  our  mas- 
ter is  to  be  true  to  the  principles  of  our  nature  and  the  benevolent 
exercise  of  them  to  others, — this  and  nothing  more." 

Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "The  mind  of  the  superior  man 
is  conversant  with  righteousness ;  the  mind  of  the  mean  man  is 
conversant  with  gain." 

Chapter  XVII.  The  Master  said,  "When  we  see  men  of  worth, 
we  should  think  of  equalling  them;  when  Ave  see  men  of  a  contrary 
character,  we  should  turn  inwards  and  examine  ourselves." 

Chapter  XVIII.  The  Master  said,  "  In  serving  his  parents,  a 
son  may  remonstrate  with  them,  but  gently ;  when  he  sees  that  they 
do  not  incline  to  follow  his  advice,  he  shows  an  increased  degree 
of  reverence,  but  does  not  abandon  his  purpose;  and  should  they 
punish  him,  he  does  not  allow  himself  to  murmur." 

inK* •  jfe  wd  SHj  which  seem  to  be  two  things, 
are  both  formed  from  jQ,  the  heart,'  Jg*  being 
compounded  of  ptj,    'middle,'    'centre,1  and 

Aj>»  and  |S  of  ^W  '"»'  and  ;&V  The  <cen" 
tre  heart's  I,  the  ego,  and  the  'as  heart'=the  I 

in  sympathy'  with  others,     if*  is  duty-doing, 

on  a  consideration,  or  from  the  impulse,  of  one's 

own  self ;  itW  is  duty  doing,  on  the  principlo-of 

reciprocity.  The  ch.  is  important,  showing  that 
Conf.  only  claimed  to  unfold  and  enforce  duties 
indicated  by  man's  mental  constitution.     He 

was  simply  a  moral  philosopher.   Obs.  pft,  up. 

2d  tone, ='  yes.'  Some  say  that  P*|  \  must 
mean  Tsang's  own  disciples,  and  that  had  they 
been  those  of  Conf.,  we  should  have  read  d& 

-J-.  The  criticism  can't  be  depended  on.  ffij  Pj 

3fe  is  a  very  emphatic — '  and  nothing  more.' 

16.      HOW    RIGHTEOUSNESS    AND    SELFISHNESS 
DISTWJVISH  TUBJftJPERIOn  MAN  AND  THE   SMALL 


man.  p&=R|fe,  'to  understand.'  "jfe  is  hew 

to  be  dwelt  on  and  may  be  compared  with  the 
Hebrew  tth. 

17.  The  lessons  to  be  learned  from  4s- 

SERVINO    MEN  OF    DIFFERENT   CHARACTERS.      Of 

the  final  particles  S  and  4fa  ,  it  is  said,  ^ 

**  *=»»#»  *.•**»?• 

something  of  a  repressive,  expansive,  warning 
force.' 

18.  HOW    A  SON  MAT   REMONSTRATE  WITH  H0 
PARENTS  ON  THEIR   FAULTS.      See   the    fflB   gjji 

XII.  i.  15.  JJ||,  up.    1st  tone,   '  mildly^the 

^  is  the  will  of  the  parents.  ^  i^=|| 
jj\\  i&L  ^,  'again  increasing  his  filial  rever- 
ence,' the  ^g  $£  j|g  J£  of  the  j*J  gg. 
X\  jS  is  not  abandoning  his  purpose  of  re- 
monstrance, and  not  as  /ftl   J|£   says  in  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


35 


f=t=R 


f  Z.  =?&=?*  =f  *  =?  ' 
Z      Z-^,     zk 

%  m  %    n 
%a   mm.%    z 

Chapter  XIX.  The  Master  said,  "While  his  parents  are  alive, 
the  son  may  not  go  abroad  to  a  distance.  If  he  does  go  abroad,  he 
must  have  a  fixed  place  to  which  he  goes." 

Chapter  XX.  The  Master  said,  "If  the  son  for  three  years  does 
not  alter  from  the  way  of  his  father,  he  may  be  called  filial." 

Chapter  XXI.  The  Master  said,  "The  years  of  parents  may  by 
no  means  not  be  kept  in  the  memory,  as  an  occasion  at  once  for  joy 
and  for  fear." 

Chapter  XXII.  The  Master  said,  "The  reason  why  the  ancients 
did  not  readily  give  utterance  to  their  words,  was  that  they  feared 
lest  their  actions  should  not  come  up  to  them." 

Chapter  XXIII.  The  Master  said,  "  The  cautious  seldom  err." 

comment  given  by  Ho  An,  ~J^  ffo lS^"© 
^g^*— frdaring  to  go  against  the  mind  of  his 


patents.'    £&=' toiled  and  pained,'  what  the 

ft  HI  >»»»  Jl  £  ft  tftib  '8honld  the* 

Wat  him  till  the  blood  flows.' 

19.    A  SOW  Of  OUT  MOT  TO  GO  TO  A  DISTANCE 
WORE  HE  WTLL  NOT  BE  ABLE  TO    PAY  THE   DUB 

SERVICES  TO  HIS  PARENTS,   "fr— ■  /(?  iffl  ,'a 

fixed  direction  or  quarter,'  whence  he  may  be 
recalled,  if  necessary. 

2d.  a  repetition  of  part  of  i.  11. 

21.    What   effect    the  age  of    parents 

mould  hate  on  their  children.    &|,  it  is 
•aid,  conveys  here  fe  fe  ^  jg  jg,  'the 


meaning  of  unforgetting  thoughtfulness.' 

22.  The  virtue  of  the  ancients  seen  in 
their  slowness  to  speak.  Obs.  the  force  of 
the  two  ^. — 'The  not  coming  forth  of  the 
words  of  the  ancients  was  shame  about  the 
not  coming  up  to  them  of  their  actions.' 

28.  Advantage  of  caution.  Collie's  version, 
which  I  have  adopt.,  is  here  happy.  $X  see  ch. 
2.  The  'binding'  here  is  of  one's-self,  self-re- 
straint,^ caution.'  -^  ^,  *  loses  «V  j£  re- 
ferring to  whatev.  bus.  the  cautious  may  be  en- 
gaged in.  ^,  foil,  an  act.  verb,  often  makes  it 
neuter ;  at  least,  a  neuter  verb  renders  the  ex- 
pression beet  in  English. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


36 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


JPI  H*  H  3&  ai  *sk  m  _ 
8*.*    .7:    .  If 

Chapter  XXIV.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  wishes  to 
be  slow  in  his  words  and  earnest  in  his  conduct." 

Chapter  XXV.  The  Master  said,  "Virtue  is  not  left  to  stand 
alone.     He  who  practises  it  will  have  neighbours." 

Chapter  XXVI.  Tsze-yew  said,  "In  serving  a  prince,  frequent 
remonstrances  lead  to  disgrace.  Between  friends,  frequent  reproofs 
make  the  friendship  distant." 

24.  Bulb  of  the  Reck-tbzB    about  his 
words  akd  actions. 

25.  Tire  vtbtcocs  abb  hot  left  alohb;— 

ah  RXCOURAORMBKT  to  vIrtub.  JjJ,  'father- 
less;' here=§olitary,  friendless.  |j£jj  >j^  ^&— 
^j!llJllJt^l^»<iti,IM)tthe,lature 


of  rirtue  to  be  left  to  stand  alone.' 


aeeck 


I ;  here,  generally,  for  friends,  associates  of  Uks 
mind. 

26.   A  LESSON  TO  COUNSELLORS  AND  FROENDS, 

P£,  up.  4  th  tone,  read  tid,  frequently,'  under* 
stood  here  in  ref.  to  remonstrating  or  reprovinf. 


BOOK  V.  KUNG-YAY  CH'ANG. 


rapfi 


%-W 


Chapter  I.  1.  The  Master  said  of  Kung-yay  Ch'ang  that  he  might 
be  wived;  although  he  was  put  in  bonds,  he  had  not  been  guilty  of 
any  crime.     Accordingly,  he  gave  him  his  own  daughter  to  wife. 

2.  Of  Nan  Yung  he  said  that  if  the  country  were  well  governed,  he 

HxADCfo  of  this  book. — J$±,  }p  J»r  Jja    quently  turns  on  their  being  possessed  of  that 

._*     w  _, ,  ,  ,  J»»,  or  perfect  virtue,  which  is  so  conspicuous 

j£.   Kung-yay  Ch'ang,  the  surname  and  name  ^  the  la8t  booki  thig  ig  the  ^^^  it  u  ^ 

of  the  first  individual  spoken  of  in  it,  heads  this  why  the  one  immediately  follows  the  other.  As 

book,  which  is  chiefly  occupied  with  the  judg-  Tsae-kung  appears  in  the  book  several  times, 

ment  of  the  sage  on  the  character  of  several  of  some  have  fancied  that  it  was  compiled  by  hi* 

his  disciples  and  others.    As  the  decision  fre*  disciples. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


OONFDCIAN  ANAt^CTS. 


ST 


B.B,1f  ®r0#ff  £0M& 

a»  £  ffl    m=f-    m.% 
b>&    #.t    #* 


would  not  be  out  of  office,  and  if  it  were  ill  governed,  he  would  escape 
punishment  and  disgrace.  He  gave  him  the  daughter  of  his  own 
elder  brother  to  wife. 

Chapter  IL  The  Master  said,  of  Tsze-tseen,  "  Of  superior  virtue 
indeed  is  such  a  man!  If  there  were  not  virtuous  men  in  Loo,  how 
could  this  man  have  acquired  this  character?" 

Chapter  III.  Tsze-kung  asked,  "What  do  you  say  of  me,  Tsze? 
The  Master  said,  "You  are  an  utensil"  "What  utensil?"  "A  gemmed 
^artificial  utensil." 


1.  Coinrccrus   in   xabbiaob-xaxing  was 

«CU>B»  BY  CHABACTKB,    AUD    WOT   BT   FOBTUBB. 

1.  Of  Kung-yay  Ch'ang,  tho'  the  son-in-law  of 
Cen£,  nothing  certain  is  known,  and  his  tablet  is 
only  3d  on  the  west,  among  the  it  wXXh.  Silly 
legends  are  told  of  his  being  put  in  prison  from 
his  bringing  suspicion  on  himself  by  his  knowl. 
of  the  language  of  birds.  Choo  He  approves  the 
U*r,r.  of  ||  W  mean. •»  btack  rope,'  with 

which  criminals  were  anciently  bound  (jfafi)  hi 

prists.  2|,  and  in  par.  2,  up.  8d  tone,  'to  wive,' 

*to  give  to  to  wife,'  «^p,  in  both  par.,='a 
iauffrtor.'  2.  Nan  Tung,  another  of  the  dis- 
ciple*, is  now  4th,  east,  in  the  outer  hall.  The 
discussions  about  who  he  was,  and  whether  he 
■  to  be  identified  with  f$J  ^  Jg,  and  several 
are  very  perplexing.    See  DQ  M£ 

f,Lio,n,«d||^^:,i.24.  Jg/to 

my,  or  be  laid  aside,'  here,  u  e.,  from  office.  ^, 
'to  put  to  death,'  has  also  the  lighter  meaning 
of  'disgrace.'  We  cannot  tell  whether  Conf. 
is  giving  his  impress,  of  Yung's  char.,  or  refer- 
ring to  events  that  had  taken  place. 

2.  Tiue  Kbustszi  pobmbj>  bt  intkbcoubsje 


with  other  Kbun-tszb.  Tsse-tseen,  by  sur- 
n*™©  0&(=j^andsaidtobet\y.^),iind 
named  jR  l£,  appears  to  have  been  of  some 
note  among  the  disci,  of  Conf.,  both  as  an 
administrator  and  writer,  tho'  his  tablet  is  now 
only  2d  west,  in  the  outer  hall.  What  chiefly 
dieting,  him,  as  appears  here,  was  his  cultivation 
of  the  friendship  of  men  of  ability  and  virtue, 

4|*   A^  is  more  than  lthis  man.'    It  is  4f 


ilk  A- 


a  man  such  as  this.'    See  the  =iq 


in  foe    The  first 


is  'this  mem;'  the 


second,  'this  virtue.'  The  paraphrasts  complete 
the  last  clause  thus:— ^  lljfr  ^  fiff  JJfc 

VI  fi£  $f  fiH  -3ji,  'what  friends  could  this 
man  have  chosen  to  complete  this  virtue?' 
8.  Whereto  Tsze-kung  had  attainkd.    See 

1. 10,  II.  12.    The  J^fj  ^  were  vessels  richly 

adorned,  used  to  contain  grain-offerings  in  the 
Imper.  ancestral  temples.    Under  the  Hea  dyn., 

they  were  called  Jjti],  and  JjSb  under  the  Yin. 

See  the  Le  Ke,  XIV.  27.  While  the  sage  did 
not  grant  to  Tsse  that  he  was  a  Kcun-tsze  (II. 
12),  he  made  him  *a  vessel  of  honour,'  valuable 
and  fit  for  «se  on  high  occasions. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


38 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


#**&■    *fi^    ^d  b>?s 

fgtt0     Hf£#,tfii 


Chapter  IV.  1.  Some  one  said,  "Yung  is  truly  virtuous,  but  hfl 
is  not  ready  with  his  tongue." 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  What  is  the  good  of  being  ready  with  thj 
tongue?  They  who  meet  men  with  smartnesses  of  speech,  for  the! 
most  part  procure  themselves  hatred.  I  know  not  whether  he  bal 
truly  virtuous,  but  why  should  he  show  readiness  of  the  tongue  ?'" 

Chapter  V.  The  Master  was  wishing  Tseih-teaou  K'ae  to  enter  on 
official  employment.     He  replied,  "I  am  not  yet  able  to  rest  in  the  i 
assurance  of  this."     The  Master  was  pleased. 

Chapter  VI.  The  Master  said,  "My  doctrines  make  no  way.  I 
will  get  upon  a  raft,  and  float  about  on  the  sea.  He  that  will  ac- 
company me  will  be  Yew,  I  dare  to  say."    Tsze-loo  hearing  this  was 

4.  Of  Yen  Yung.     Readiness  with  the  ~~~ 

TONGUE  NO  PART  OP  VIRTUE.    1.    JH.  Sffij  Styled 

Aw  B ,  has  his  tablet  the  second,  on  the  east 

of  Conf.  own  tablet,  among  'the  wise  ones.'  His 
father  was  a  worthless  character  (see  VI.  4), 

but  he  himself  was  the  opposite,  ofc  means 
'ability,'  generally,  then  *  ability  of  speech,' 
often,  though  not  here,  with  the  bad  sense  of 
artfulness  and  flattery.    2.    Conf.  would  not 

grant  that  Yung  was  4~*t  but  his  not  being  4& 

was  in  his  favour  rather  than  otherwise,   fj  *p 

(read  kei.  See  Diet),  'smartnesses  of  speech.'  j 

is  here  'why,'  rather  than  'how.'   The  first 

EH  ^~2  is  a  gen.  statement,  not  having,  like 
the  sec.,  special  reference  to  Yen  Yung.    In  the 

as  one  sentence; — 'I  do  not  know  how  the 
virtuous  should  also  use  readiness  of  speech.' 
This  is  not  so  good  as  the  received  interpretation. 

5.  TSEIH-TEAOU    K'AE'S    OPINION      OF     THE 
QUALIFICATIONS   NECESSARY  TO  TAKING    OFFICE. 

Tseih-teaou,  now  6th,  on  the  east,  in  the  out. 
ball,  was  styled  -J-  4£ »    HJL6  name  originally 


was  jgjr,  changed  into  ffl,  on  the  accession 

of  the  Emperor  jSL  ■&,  A.  D.  155,  whose 

name  was  also  ®k    The  diff.  in  the  ch.  is  with 

ftft — what  does  it  refer  to  ?  and  with  4g— 
what  is  its  force?  In  the  ch.  about  the  dis- 
ciples in  the  5£  ^&  it  is  said  that  K*ae  was 

reading  in  the  Shoo-king,  when  Conf.  spoke  to 
him  about  taking  office,  and  he  pointed  to  the 
book,  or  some  particular  passage  in  it,  saying, 
4 1  am  not  yet  able  to  rest  in  the  assurance  of 

<1i=3l  fcw  ^  &>  **-'  u  ■■*  taTe 

been  so.  Obs.  the  force  of  the  J?*  ; — « There  is 
as  yet  my  want  of  faith  of  this.' 

6.  Confucius  proposing  to  withdraw 
from  the  world: — a  lesson  to  tsxb-loo. 
Tsze-loo  supposed  his  master  really  meant  to 
leave  the  world,  and  the  idea  of  floating  along 
the  coasts,  pleased  his  ardent  temper,  while  be 
was  delighted  with  the  compliment  paid  to 
himself.  But  Conf.  only  expressed  in  this  way 
his  regret  at  the  backwardness  of  men  to  re- 
ceive his  doctrines,  fjfe  fft  JJJt  jjyj*  is  diff.  of 
interpretation.  Choo  He  takes  jdt  as  being  for 
=|J£.  'to  cut  out  clothes/  'to  estimate,  discrimi- 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


39 


>*> 


M>8$ 


K^  f  =?  * 

0.4.ffi^^¥o 


3§f  Ifc  >f»  iL» 

&  JL  4o^> 

40pr^f^ 

glad,  upon  which  the  Master  said,  "Yew  is  fonder  of  daring  than  I 
am.    He  does  not  exercise  his  judgment  upon  matters." 

Chapter  VII.  1.  Mang  Woo  asked  about  Tsze-loo,  whether  he 
was  perfectly  virtuous.     The  Master  said,  "I  do  not  know." 

2.  He  asked  again,  when  the  Master  replied,  "In  a  kingdom  of  a 
thousand  chariots,  Yew  might  be  employed  to  manage  the  military 
levies,  but  I  do  not  know  whether  he  be  perfectly  virtuous." 

3.  "And  what  do  you  say  of  K'ew?"  The  Master  replied,  "In  a 
city  of  a  thousand  families,  or  a  house  of  a  hundred  chariots,  K'ew 
might  be  employed  as  governor,  but  I  do  not  know  whether  he  is 
perfectly  virtuous." 

4.  "What  do  you  say  of  Ch'ih?"  The  Master  replied,  "With  his 
8ash  girt  and  standing  in  a  court,  Ch'ih  might  be  employed  to  con- 
verse with  the  visitors  and  guests,  but  I  do  not  know  whether  he 
is  perfectly  virtuous." 

■ate/  and  hence  the  mean,  in  the  transl.  An  old 
comm,  OR  jfe,  keeping  the  mean,  of  JEj  ,  ex- 

"fining  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  raft.*  An- 
other old  writer  makes  >|jj"=jSfc»  *&&  putting 
*  rtop  at  Ja  expL — 'Yew  is  fond  of  daring ;  He 
ctnn»t  go  beyond  himself  to  find  my  meaning.' 
|j|,  bere='  I  dare  to  say. ' 

7.  Of  Tsze-loo,  Tszb-tbw,and  Tbzimiwa. 


1   ^^^.8een.6.2.=p^^g, 
see  I.  5.  Jjjfr,  properly,  'revenues,'  ' taxes, '  but 

the  quota  of  soldiers  contributed  being  regul. 
by  the  amt.  of  the  rev.,  the  term  is  used  here 

for  the  forces,  or  military  levies.  8.  >K  8ee  ***• 

6-  W  He  £  t|£. in  °pp-  ^fk  £  H- 

was  the  secondary  fief,  the  territory  appropri- 
ated to  the  highest  nobles  or  officers  in  a  B|  or 

state,  suppos.  also  to  comprehend  1000  fami* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


40 


C05TUCIAH  ANALECTS. 


3EL  A  m  + 

4fTO 


«jci2iHgjt 


Chapter  VIII.  1.    The  Master  said  to  Tsze-kung,  "Which 
you  consider  superior,  yourself  or  Hwuy?" 

2.  Tsze-kung  replied,  "How  dare  I  compare  myself  with  Hwu; 
Hwuy  hears  one  point  and  knows  all  about  a  subject;  I  hear  o 
point  and  know  a  second,"  | 

3.  The  Master  said,  "You  are  not  equal  to  him.  I  grant  you, 
you  are  not  equal  to  him." 

Chapter  IX.  1.  Tsae  Yu  being  asleep  during  the  day  time,  the 
Master  said,  "Rotten  wood  cannot  be  carved;  a  wall  of  dirty  eartfc 
will  not  receive  the  trowel  This  Yu! — what  is  the  use  of  my  r* 
proving  him?" 

2.  Tne  Master  said,  "At  first,  my  way  with  men  was  to  hear 
their  words,  and  give  them  credit  for  their  conduct.  Now  my  way 
is  to  hear  their  words,  and  look  at  their  conduct  It  is  from  Yu 
that  I  have  learned  to  make  this  change." 


liet.^jj  ;£  ££?,  <To  be  ito  governor.'  This  if  a 
pec.  idiom.  4.  Chin,  surnamed  j£±  jjRj,  and 

styled  -7»  f&,  baring  now  the  14th  place, 

west,  in  the  out  hall,  was  famous  among  the 
disciples  for  his  knowL  of  roles  of  cer.,  and 
those  especially  relating  to  dress  and  inter- 
course. jSH,  low.  1st  tone.  ST  and  2fe  may  be 
distinguished,  the  former  indicating  neighbour- 
ing princes  visiting  the  court,  the  lat.  ministers 
and  officers  of  the  state  present  as  guests. 

8.      SUPKBIOBITT    OF    IBM    HWCT   TO     TlZC- 

ftUHo.  2.  |g,  'to  look  to,'  'to  look  up  to,'  here 

«J^,' to  compare  with.'  « One'  is  the  begin,  of 
number)*,  and  ^ten'  the,  completion ;  hence  the 


mean,  of  PJ )^^^,asiBth»tr*nsL  I 

H«|^,  to  allow, "to grant  to.'  HoAngNi 

here  the  comm.  of  ^ft  Jj^,  (about  A.  D.  »i 
who  interprets  strangely, — *I  awl  you  are  boA 
not  equal  to  him,'  saying  that  Conf.  thai  coo- 
forted  Tsse-kung. 

9.  The  idlsvsss  of  Tsae  Yu  i»mn- 
fuoof.  1.  J$  ^f*  fjg,  'In  the  caseef  UV 
fijl  has  here  the  force  of  anexdam.;  ss,  below, 
gjfc,  a  strong  term,  to  mark  the  sererity  of  tto 

reproof-  *•  -7»  Q  k  superfluous.  The  dsr. 
were  probably  added  by  a  transcriber.  If  D* 
they  should  bead  another  chapter. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


41 


flkHk  jmgl 

¥     4.^^     HE 


Chapter  X,  The  Master  said,  "I  have  not  seen  a  firm  and 
unbending  man."  Some  one  replied,  "There  is  Shin  Ch'ang." 
"Ch'ang,"  aaid  the  Master,  "is  under  the  influence  of  his  passions; 
how  can  he  be  pronounced  firm  and  unbending?" 

Cuaptbb  XL  Tsze-kung  said,  "What  I  do  not  wish  men  to  do  to 
me,  I  also  wish  not  to  do  to  men/'  The  Master  said,  "Tsze,  you 
have  not  attained  to  that." 

Chaptbb  XII.     Tsze-kung  said,  "The  Master's  personal  displays 

Iqf  his  principles,  and  ordinary  descriptions  of  them  may  be  heard, 
His  discourses  about  mans  nature,  and  the  way  of  Heaven,  cannot 
be  heard." 


10.  UVBEVDINQ  VIRTUE  C A SWOT  COEXIST  WITH 

dtddlgekck  op  the  PAS&ION8,  Shin  Ch'ang 
(there  are  several  filiates,  but  they  are  disputed,) 
was  one  of  (he  minor  disciples,  of  whom  little 
or  nothing  is  known.  He  was  styled  -7*  IS, 
and  his  place  is  31st,  east,  in  the  out.  ranges, 
jjM  is  to  be  understood  with  reference  to  vir- 

toe°  ^£&  **  Ipy  tiff  ij»  ' whafc  the  P8*8***1" 
We,*  'lusts,'   £|  %  are  said  to-^  -(|f 

and  not  jK  £fe.    I  hare  transL  accordingly. 

11.  Thu  difficulty  ov  attaining  to  the 
wot  wisbuo  to  do  to  others  as  we  wj8h 
fRsuvorTopoTout.  It  is  said—jj^-&  H 

the  »•  /  (toad,  from  selfishness)  is  not  easily 
radMd*    I*  the  Pf|  J^,XXU.3,itissaid— 

<wha*  you  do  not  like  when  done  to  yourself, 
d  not  do  to  others.*    The  diff..  fctween  it  and 


the  sent  here  is  said  to  be  that  of  <jjg,  'red* 

procity/  and  £^,  'benevolence/  or  the  highest 

virtue,  appar,  in  the  adv.  >fej  and  ^ff,  the  one 
prohibitive,  and  the  other  a  simple,  nnconstrauLr 
ed,  negation.  The  golden  rule  of  the  Gospel 
is  higher  than  both,— *  Do  je  unto  others  as 
ye  would  that  others  should  do  unto  you/ 

!§=;&<  to  H> «  tot§>  •»  •"'v*' 

'to  do  to.' 
12.  The  gradual  wat  in  which  Co*rucnrs 

COMMUNICATED    HIS    DOCTRINES,      So  the  leSSOU 

of  this  ch.  is  summed  up,  but  there  is  hardly 
another  more  perplexing  to  a  transl,  ^Jr  jSjr  ia 
the  coram,  name  for  essays,  elegant  literary 
compositions,  Of  course  that  mean,  is  out  of  the 
question,    Whatever  Is  figured  and  brilliant  is 

yT.  whatever  is  orderly  and  defined  is  jp£.  The 
comro.,  accordingly,  make  ~yT  to  be  the  deport- 
ment and  manners  of  the  sage,  and  Tg  his 
ordin.  discourses,  but  BB  is  an  inapprop.  term 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


42 


&±5 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 

IB** 


Chapter  XIII.  When  Tsze-loo  heard  anything,  if  he  had  not 
yet  carried  it  into  practice,  he  was  only  afraid  lest  he  should  hear 
something  else. 

Chapter  XIV.  Tsze-kung  asked  saying,  "On  what  ground  did 
Kung-w&n  get  that  title  of  wan?"  The  Master  said,  "He  was  of  aa- 
active  nature  and  yet  fond  of  learning,  and  he  was  not  ashamed  to 
ask  and  learn  of  his  inferiors! — On  these  grounds  he  has  been  styled 

WAN." 

Chapter  XV.  The  Master  said  of  Tsze-ch'an  that  he  had  fouf 
of  the  characteristics  of  a  superior  man: — in  his  conduct  of  himself 
he  was  humble;  in  serving  his  superiors,  he  was  respectful;  in  nour- 
ishing the  people,  he  was  kind;  in  ordering  the  people,  he  was  just" 

with  reference  to  the  former.  These  things,  how- 
ever, were  level  to  the  cap.  of  the  disci,  generally, 
and  thev  had  the  benefit  of  them.  As  to  his 
views  about  man's  nature,  the  gift  of  Heaven, 
and  the  way  of  Heaven  generally; — these  he 
only  cointnun.  to  those  who  were  prepared  to 
receive  them,  and  Tsze-kung  is  supposed  to 
have  expressed  himself  thus,  after  being  on  some 
occasion  so  privileged. 

13.  Thb  ardour  of  Tsze-loo  in  practising 
the  Master's  instructions.  The  concl.  p# 
Jgfc  ^  U|]  is  to  be  completed  |rf£  g*  ^ 

^f  ffx  SU*  ** in  the  tran8^ation' 


14.  An  example  of  the  principle  on 
which  honorary  posthumous  titles  were 
conferred.  "aT,  corresponding  nearly  to  our 
*  accomplished,'  was  the  posthuw.  title  given  to 


-^  |§),  an  officer  of  the  state  of  Wei,  an*  a 
contempor.  of  Conf.  Many  of  his  actions  had 
been  of  a  doubtful  char.,  which  made  Tsze-kung 
stumble  at  the  applica.  to  him  of  so  hon.  am 
epithet.  But  Conf.  shows  that,  whatever  ha 
might  otherwise  be,  he  had  those  qualities, 
which  justified  his  being  so  denominated.  Hie 
rule  for  posth.  titles  in  China  has  been,  and  Is, 
very  much — '/>e  mortuis  nil  nisi  taut**.' 

15.    The  excellent  qualities    of    Tsza- 

ch'an.    Tsze-ch'an,  named  £%.  Jf&  |gj,  was 

the  chief  min.  of  the  state  of  Ching  (JSK)»  t,w 
ablest  perhaps,  and  most  upright,  of  all  the 
statesmen  among  Conf.  contemporaries.  Tfo 
sage  wept  when  he  heard  of  his  death.    The-eM 

interpret,  take  wS  in  the  sense  of   'employ* 

ing,'  but  it  seems  to  express  mote,  aadU=*  order* 
ing,'  'regulating.' 


Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


43 


^ StEH„.. 

'&&  2Jk  T*M  =f  %  =f  mo 

£  ft  *  M  &  3£  #.     #. 
0k  #n0£  -  %     w      A 

Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "Gari  P'ing  knew  well  how  to 
maintain  friendly  intercourse.  The  acquaintance  might  be  long,  but 
he  showed  the  same  respect  as  atjirst" 

Chapter  XVII.  The  Master  said,  "Tsang  W&n  kept  a  large  tortoise 
in  a  house,  on  the  capitals  of  the  pillars  of  which  he  had  hills  made, 
with  representations  of  duckweed  on  the  small  pillars  above  the 
heams  supporting  ike  rafters. — Of  what  sort  was  his  wisdom?" 

Chapter  XV III.  1.  Tsze-chang  asked,  saying,  "The  minister 
Taze-w&n,  thrice  took  office,  and  manifested  no  joy  in  his  counte- 
nance. Thrice  he  retired  from  office,  and  manifested  no  displeasure. 
He  made  it  a  point  to  inform  the  new  minister  of  the  way  in  which 
he  had  conducted  the  government ; — what  do  you  say  of  him?  "  "  The 
Master  replied,  "He  was  loyal."  "Was  he  perfectly  virtuous?"  "I 
do  not  know.  How  can  he  be  pronounced  perfectly  virtuous?" 


16.  HOW    TO   MAIHTABf    FRIENDSHIP.       *Fa- 

EdHarity  breeds  contempt,'  and  with  contempt 
friendship  ends.  It  was  not  so  with  Gan  P*ing, 
another  of  the  worthies  of  Confucius'  times.  He 

was  a  prin.  minister  of  Tt<e  (££)>  °y  name 

ffl*  Ping  («'  Ruling  and  averting  calamity ') 

wis  his  posth.  title.  If  we  were  to  render  <jfcjt, 
the  name  would  he  'Gran  P'ing,  *ecmad*$S  60s. 
the  anteced.  to  j^  is   A  . 

17.  The  superstition  of  Tsako  Wan. 
Tstng  Wan  (wan  is  the  hon.  epithet,  and  'ffcff ,  see 
bitch.)  had  been  a  great  off.  in  Loo,  and  left  a 
Kftotatson  for  wisdom,  which  Conf.  did  not  think 
was  deterred.    His  full  name  was  ^jjjj£  -j§£  Jjjp^. 

He  was  descended  from  the  duke  j^£  (B.  C. 

7H  767),  whose  son  was  styled  -J-  |g£.   This 


Tsang  was  taken  by  his  descendants  as  their 
surname.  This  is  mentioned  to  shew  one  of 
the  ways  in  which  surnames  were  formed  among 

the  Chinese.  ^jj£  'a  large  tortoise,'  so  called, 
because  the  state  of  that  name  was  famous  for 
its  tortoises.  By  is  used  as  an  act  verb,=ajt. 
The  ^j$=;Q:  cj^ij-  ^,  'the  capitals  of  the 

pillars.'   The  jfr  may  be  seen  in  any  Ch.  house. 

There  being  no  ceilings,  the  whole  structure  of 
the  roof  is  displayed,  and  these  small  pillars 
are  very  conspicuous.  The  old  interpr.  make 
the  keep,  such  a  tortoise  an  act  of  usurpa.  on 
the  part  of  Tsang  Wan.  Choo  He  finds  the 
point  of  Conf.  words  in  the  keeping  it  in  such 
a  style. 

18.  Tub  praise  of  perfect  virtue  is  rot  to 
be  lightly  accorded.  1.  Ling  yin,  lit.,  'good 
corrector,'  was  the  nsrac  given  to  the  chief  min. 

of  T800  (4&).  ^9*  is  still  applied  to  officers; 


4* 


COWttJdAH  AKAUtCTS. 


E 


lee Sr  S  M  H,A._ 


ft 


m    =? 


%  Tsze*chang  proceeded,  "When  the  officer  Ts'tiy  killed  the 
prince  of  Ts4e,  Ch*ln  W&n>  though  he  Was  the  owner  of  forty  horsesj 
abandoned  them  and  left  the  country.  Coming  to  another  state,  he 
said,  *  They  are  here  like  our  great  officer,  Ts'uy,'  and  left  it  He 
came  to  a  second  state>  and  with  the  same  observation  left  it  also;— 
what  do  you  say  of  him?"  The  Master  replied,  "He  was  pure.* 
"Was  he  perfectly  virtuous?"  "I  do  not  know*  How  can  he  be 
pronounced  perfectly  virtuous?" 

Chapter  AlX.  Ke  Win  thought  thrice,  and  then  acted*  When 
the  Master  Was  informed  of  it,  he  said,  "Twice  may  do." 

Chaptkr  XX*  The  Master  said,  "  When  good  order  prevailed  in 
his  country,  Ning  Woo  acted  the  part  of  a  wise  man.  When  hw 
country  was  in  disorder,  he  acted  the  part  of  a  stupid  man.  Others 
may  equal  his  wisdom,  but  they  cannot  equal  his  stupidity." 

*  £.,  the  prefect  of  a  department  is  called 
Kf  3J\  TSze-wftn,  surnamed  B9,  and  named 

jJ8£  Vt  3&  ('suckled  by  a  tiger'),  had 
been  noted  for  the  things  mentioned  by  Ts<e- 
cbang,  but  the  sage  would  not  concede  that  he 

was  therefore  j".   2.  -|||  was  a  great  officer 

df  Ts'e.  Gan  P'ing  (ch.  16),  distinguished  himself 
on  the  occasion  of  the  murder  (B.  C.  5-47)  here 
referred  to*  Chin  Wan  was  likewise  an  office* 

of  Ts'e.  £— * ^J,  £  is  a  verb,  =^.  $£, 

lowv  3d  tone,  as  in  L  5,  but  with  a  diff.  meaning, 
♦a  team  of  four  horses,* 

19.    Prompt  decision  oooiK    Wan  was  the 
posth.  title  of  SprfTT^  a  faithftd  and  disin- 


terested officer  of  Loo.   — ,  up.  8d  tone) 'thrc* 

times,'  but  some  say  its=^  ^Ti'tpto** 
again.'  Comp.  Robert  Hall's  remark,— 'In  mat* 
ters  of  conscience  first  thoughts  are  best.' 
20.   Tub  uncommon  Birr  admimablb  a&* 

dity  op  Niito  Woo.    Ning  Woo  (  j£,  boa.  ^ 

See  II.  6),  was  nn  officer  of  Wei  in  the  *&*•£ 
Wan,  (B.  C.  635-627),  the  second  of  the** 
pld.  (III.  22).  In  tbe  first  part  of  his  oftW 
life*  the  state  was  qttict  and  prosperous,  asd** 
'wisely'  acquitted  himself  of  his  duties.  After- 
wards came  confusion*    The  prince  was  driven 

from  tbe  throne,  and  Ning  Yu  (^  ▼«*  hi* 
name)  might,  like  other  wise  men,  have  retifw 
from  the  danger.  But  lie  'foolishly/  **  ft**1" 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONTOCTAH  AKALBCTS. 


4fr 


ft 

BBS  H 

IB** 
4 


* 


*  >h  B> 


ASH 


Chapter  XXI.  When  the  Master  was  in  Ch'in,  he  said,  "Let  me 
return !  Let  me  return !  The  little  children  of  my  school  are  am- 
bitious  and  too  hasty*  They  are  accomplished  and  complete  so  far, 
but  they  do  not  know  how  to  restrict  and  shape  themselves." 

Chapter  XXII.  The  Master  said,  "Pih-e  and  Shuh-ts'e  did  not 
keep  the  former  wickednesses  of  men  in  mind,  and  hence  the  resent- 
ments directed  towards  them  were  few." 

Chapter  XXIII.  The  Master  said,  "Who  says  of  Wei-shang 
Kaou  that  he  is  upright  ?  One  begged  some  vinegar  of  him,  and  he 
begged  it  of  a  neighbour  and  gave  it  him." 


cd,  chose  to  follow  the  fortunes  of  his  prince,  I  dynasty.  Comp.  Mencins,  ILi.2,9,  «t  al.  They 
and  yet  adroitly  brought  it  about  in  the  end,  1  ^erebrotheis,  sons  of  the  king  of  Koo-chuh  (jM 
that  the  prince  was  reinstated  and  order  re-  I  ,s^ 

Stored. 
21.  The  anxiety  of  Contvcics  about  tot 


TBAimjio  of  ms  msciplbs.  Confucius  was  thrice 
In  C%Hn.  it  must  hare  been  the  3d  time,  when 
he  thus  expressed  himself.  He  was  then  over 
fte  years,  and  being  convinced  that  he  was  not 
to  see  for  himself  the  triumph  of  his  principles, 
fie  became  the  more  anxious  about  their  trans- 
mission, and  the  train,  of  the  discL  in  order  to 
thai.  Such  is  the  com.  view  of  the  ch.  Some 
say,  however,  that  it  is  not  to  be  understood  of 
all  the  disciples.    Comp.  Meacfos,  VII.  ii.  87. 

S-  j£b  j£  /£>  Jp,  an  affectionate  way  of 
speaking  of  the  disciples.  ££,  'mad,*  also,  'ex- 
travagant,' 'highminded.'  Hie  ££  are  natu- 
rally fffi,  hasty  and  careless  of  minutiae.  |^| 
jfc,  (accomplished-like;  5|f,  see  ch.  IS.  Jjg 

j§^  'something  complete.'  ^J£,  see  ch.  6,  but 
it*  applica.  here  is  somewhat  diffi.  The  antececL 
to  JP[  is  all  the  preced.  description. 

22.    Tub  generosity  or  Pm-E  ahd  Shuh- 
T»*av  and  its  effects*     These  were  ancient 
of  the  closing  period  of  the  bhang  j 


ff),  named  respectively  ^  and  ^.  E  and 
Ts*e  are  their  hon.  epithets,  and  f  £j  and  ^£ 
only  indicate  their  relation  to  each  other  as 
elder  and  younger.  Pih-e  and  Shuh-ts'e,  how- 
ever, are  in  effect  their  names  in  the  mouths 
and  writings  of  the  Chinese.  Koo-chuh  was  a 
small  state,  included  in  the  pres.  depart,  of  Jfc 
3£,  in  Pih-chih-io.  Their  father  left  his  king- 
dom to  Shuh-ts'e,  who  refused  to  take  the 
place  of  his  elder  brother.  Pih-e  in  turn  de- 
clined the  throne,  so  they  both  abandoned  it, 
and  retired  into  obscurity.  When  king  Woo 
was  taking  his  measures  agaiugt  the  tyrant 
Chow,  they  made  their  appearance,  and  remon- 
strated against  his  course.  Finally,  they  died 
of  hunger,  rather  than  live  under  the  new  dy- 
nasty. They  were  celebrated  for  their  purity, 
and  aversion  to  men  whom  they  considered 
bad,  but  Conf.  here  brings  out  their  generosity. 

&;lffl  #-$&##• '*-"*- 

meats  thereby  were  few.' 

23*     SMAKL  MEANNESSES   INCONSISTENT  WITH 

uprightness.  It  is  implied  that  Kaou  gave 
the  vinegar  as  from  himself. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


46 


CONFUCIAN  ANALBCIY. 


**\H.  ^c^  ^  :£  96  2     *• 

£2*s   ^^      J       i»W  *tU:  ^%    ^— 'k    tt  /"5ft 

M  &  ffi  B.      JBc  W .  _ 


Chapter  XXIV.  The  Master  said,  "Fine  words,  an  insinuating 
appearance,  and  excessive  respect ; — Tso-k4ew  Ming  was  ashamed  of 
them.  I  also  am  ashamed  of  them.  To  conceal  resentment  against 
a  person,  and  appear  friendly  with  him; — Tsok'ew  Ming  was 
ashamed  of  such  conduct.     I  also  am  ashamed  of  it." 

Chapter  XXV.  1.  Yen  Yuen  and  Ke  Loo  being  by  his  side,  tb* 
Master  said  to  them,  "  Come,  let  each  of  you  tell  his  wishes." 

2.  Tsze-loo  said,  "  I  should  like,  having  chariots  and  horses,  and 
light  fur  dresses,  to  share  them  with  my  friends,  and  though  they 
should  spoil  them,  I  would  not  be  displeased." 

3.  Yen  Yuen  said,  "I  should  like  not  to  boast  of  my  excellence, 
nor  to  make  a  display  of  my  meritorious  deeds." 

4.  Tsze-loo  then  said,  "  I  should  like,  sir,  to  hear  your  wishes." 
The  Master  said,  "  They  are,  in  regard  to  the  aged,  to  give  them  rest; 
in  regard  to  friends,  to  show  them  sincerity;  in  regard  to  the  young, 
to  treat  them  tenderly*" 


24.    Pbaisb  or  sincbbitt,  jlkd  or  Tso-k*ew 
m,xo.    15  §•«£  £,  .ee  I.  8.  jjl  %, 

4  excessive  respect,*  JH  being  in  3d  tone,  read 
Ueu.  Some  of  the  old  comrn^  keeping  the  usual 
tone  and  meaning  of  ffi,  interpret  the  phrase 

of  movements  of  the  'feet'  to  indicate  respect. 
The  discussions  about  Tso-k'ew  Ming  are  end- 
less.   See  |^  ^  |£,  I.  80.    It  is  sufficient 

for  us  to  rest  in  the  judgment  of  the  comra.  jiB, 
that  •  he  was  an  ancient  of  reputation.*  It  is 
not  to  be  received  that  he  was  a  disciple  of 

Conf .  jjl  was  the  name  of  Conf.  The  Chinese 
decline  pronouncing  it,  always  substituting  mow 
r^f±\  4  such  an  one/  for  it. 


25.    The  different  wishes  or  Ten  Tube, 
Tsce-loo,  aed  Confucius.    1.   jg  2&  =3T 

JOf  j|?,  'why  not  each  tell  your  will?'  2.  A 
student  is  apt  to  translate — 'I  should  like  to 
have  chariots  and  horses,  Ac,*  but  it  is  the 
import,  word  in  the  par.,  and  under  the  regi- 
men of  ^|(.  ^£,  up.  8d  tone,  'to  wear/  Sev- 
eral writers  carry  the  reg.  of  JB  on  to  ^,  and 
removing  the  comma  at  4£,  read  4t  jbfr  to- 
gether, but  this  constr.  is  not  so  good.  3.  In 
Ho  An's  compilation  wjjf  £5  is  interpr. — 'not 
to  impose  troublesome  affaire  on  others.*  Choo 
He's  view  is  better.    Comp.  the  Yih-kinft  §B 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


47 


12  JL 


*  jr  ^    &$    a  ^o#0 
-&%    &  *  ■  ^  *  a 

CiHAPTER  XXVI.  The  Master  said,  "It  is  all  over!  I  have  not 
yet  seen  one  who  could  perceive  his  faults,  and  inwardly  accuse 
himself." 

Chapter  XXVII.  The  Master  said,  "In  a  hamlet  of  ten  families, 
there  may  be  found  one  honourable  and  sincere  as  I  am,  but  not 
ao  fond  of  learning." 

be  with  them  with  sincerity.' — The  Master  and 
the  disci,  it  is  said,  agreed  in  being  devoid  of 
attftsjuiess.  Hwuy's,  however,  was  seen  in  a 
higher  style  of  mind  and  object  than  Yew's. 
la  the  sage,  there  was  an  unconsciousness  of  self, 
And  without  any  effort,  he  propos.  acting  in 
regard  to  his  classification  of  men  just  as  they 
ought  severally  to  be  acted  to. 

26.      A  LAMENT  OVER  MEN'S   PERSISTENCE   IN 

zeros.  The  j£  has  an  exclamat.  force.  ^, 
<fc>  litigate.'    j3j    g    §£  %,   'one  who 


brings  himself  before  the  bar  of  his  conscience.* 
The  remark  affirms  a  fact,  inexplicable  on  Conf. 
view  of  the  nature  of  man.  But  perhaps  such 
an  exclamation  should  not  be  pressed  too  closely, 
27.    The  humble  claim  of  Confucius  for 

»  &  (A  !&#£*!•&> 

is  *  the  designation  of  the  place  where  men  are 
collected  together,'  and  may  be  applied  from  a 

hamlet  upwards  to  a  city.  Jg&^Jg!*  J5» 
*  honourable,'  *  substantial'  Confucius  thus  did 
not  claim  higher  natural  and  moral  qualities 
than  others,  but  sought  to  perfect  himself  by 
learning. 


&- 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


48 


CONFUCIAN  ANALBCT8. 


BOOK  VI.  YUNG  YAY. 


m  m  5  f  >  #*te  it  _ 

W  ^  £  SI  0,  T  #-H  & 
Wt  7i  W  4,  =f-  pT 


Chapter  I.  1.  The  Master  said,  "There  is  Yung! — He  might 
occupy  the  place  of  a  prince." 

2.  Chung-kung  asked  about  Tsze-sang  Pih-tsze.  The  Master  said, 
"  He  may  pass.     He  does  not  mind  small  matters." 

3.  Chung-kung  said,  "  If  a  man  cherish  in  himself  a  reverential 
feeling  of  the  necessity  of  attention  to  business,  though  he  may  be  easy 
in  small  matters,  in  his  government  of  the  people,  that  may  be  al- 
lowed. But  if  he  cherish  in  himself  that  easy  feeling,  and  also  carry 
it  out  in  his  practice,  is  not  such  an  easy  mode  of  procedure  ex- 
cessive?" 

4.  The  Master  said,  "Yung's  words  are  right." 


Heading  op  this  book. — IS  4fc  4&  ^f . 

'There  is  Tung !  *  commences  the  first  ch.,  and 
stands  as  the  title  of  the  book-  Its  subjects  are 
much  akin  to  those  of  the  preceding  book,  and 
therefore,  it  is  said,  they  are  in  juxtaposition. 
1.  The  characters  of  Yen  Yung  andTszb- 

SaNQ  PllI-TBZE,  AS  REGARDS  THEIR  ADAPTATION 
JOE  GOVERNMENT.   1.    7?T  43f  jSg   ffjj,  'might 

be  employed  with  his  face  to  the  south.*  In 
China,  the  emperor  sits  facing  the  south.  So 
did  the  princes  of  the  states  in  their  several 
courts  in  Conf.  time.  An  explan,  of  the  practice 

is  attempted  in  the  Yih-King,  §K£  ^Jsk  ch.  9t 

&%z&&>mAmmm 

-J^,   'The   diagram  Le  conveys  the  idea  of 


brightness,  when  all  things  are  exhibited  to  one 
another.  It  is  the  diagram  of  the  south.  The 
custom  of  the  sages  (i.  e.,  monarchs)  to  sit  with 
their  faces  to  the  south,  and  li$ten  to  the  raprr. 
Mentations  of  the  empire,  governing  towards  the 
bright  region,  was  taken  from  this.'  2.  Ob*. 
Chung-kung  was  the  designation  of  Yen  Yung, 
see  V.  4.    fifi  has  here  substantially  the  same 

meaning  as  in  V.  21,=y|\  j^  'not  troubling/ 
t.  «.,  one's  self  about  small  matters.  With  ref. 
to  that  place,  however,  the  Diet,  after  the  old 
comm.,  explains  it  by  -^,  'great.'  3.  Of  Tsw 
sang  Pih-tsze,  we  know  nothing  certain  fm% 
what  is  here  stated.  Choo  He  seems  to  be  wrong 
in  approving  the  identifies-  of  him  with  a  Tseo- 
sang  Hoo.    Jg  |jj\  'to  dwell  in  respect,*  to 

have  the  mind  imbued  with  it.  {j£v^£  3I 
in  I.  5. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


49 


21  m  5n  m. 
if?  X  B>  m 

m  MM  M 

m  ^  #  m  # 

m  ^  ^ 


*  f  #  ^i 

0  ifc  7;  ^  A 


&>  *  It  T 


Chapter  II.  The  duke  Gae  asked  which  of  the  disciples  loved  to 
learn.  Confucius  replied  to  him,  "There  was  Yen  Hwuy ;  he  loved 
to  learn.  He  did  not  transfer  his  anger ;  he  did  not  repeat  a  fault. 
Unfortunately,  his  appointed  time  was  short  and  he  died ;  and  now 
there  is  not  such  anot/ier.  I  have  not  yet  heard  of  any  one  who  loves 
to  learn  as  he  did.'1 

Chapter  III.  1.  Tsze-hwa  being  employed  on  a  mission  to  Ts'e, 
the  disciple  Yen  requested  grain  for  his  mother.  The  Master  said, 
"Give  her  a/00."  Yen  requested  more.  " Give  her  an  yu"  said  the 
Master,  Yen  gave  her  five  jring. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "When  Ch'ih  was  proceeding  to  Ts'e,  he 
had  fat  horses  to  his  carriage,  and  wore  light  furs.     I  have  heard 


2.  The  rarity  or  a  true  love  to  learn. 
Hwut'i  superiority  to  the  other  disciples. 

In  ^  ]||f  fgj  %,  %j  «='  that.'— 'There  was 
that  Yen  Hwuy.'  *He  did  not  transfer  his 
anger/  i.  «.,  his  anger  was  no  tumultuary 
paction  in  the  mind,  hut  was  excited  by  some 
specific  cause,  to  which  alone  it  was  directed. 
£»£  fSj  $fc  ^,~='He  died  an  early  death,' 
but  &?  conveys  also  the  idea  in  the  transl. 
The  two  last  clauses  are  completed  thus : — -4v 

•fe.  M  t;  <«•*  •*  ^-M)  Ik  A.  % 
H*n  ft  £###&• 

3.  DlSCRIMlMATIOX     OF     CoVFUCIUS    IN    RJJ- 
WXRDUiO  OR  SALARYJNG  OFFICERS.   1.      TBI,  Up. 

3d  tone,  *  to  commission,'  or '  to  be  commissioned.' 
Cfcoo  He  says  the  commission  was  a  private  one 
tern  Confucius,  but  this  is  not  likely.  The  old  in- 
terpretation makes  it  a  public  one  from  the  court 


of  Loojsee  JflJ  £  $£  $j*m.  9.  ||  *, 
♦The  disciple  Yen ' ;  see  HI.  6.  Yen  is  here  styled 
-3^,  like  ^  -5^,  in  I.  2,  but  only  in  narrative, 
not  as  introducing  any  wise  utterance.  A 
foo  contained  6  tow  (if*),  and  4  shing  (^t-  ),  or  64 
shing.  The  Yu  contained  160  shing,  and  the  ping 
ieh6(ffl),  or  1600  shing.  A  shing  of  the  present 

day  is  about  £th  less  than  an  English  pint.  2.  The 

^  in  n?"  RH  ^'  refers  to  what  follows.  3.  In 
He  An'g  edition,  another  chapter  commences 
here.    Yuen  Sze,  named  4§r,  is  now  the  third, 

east,  in  the  outer  hall  of  the  temples.  He  was 
noted  for  his  pursuit  of  truth,  and  carelessness  of 
worldly  advantages.  After  the  death  of  Conf.,  he 
withdrew  into  retirement  in  Wei.  It  is  related 
that  Tsze-kung,  high  in  official  station,  came 
one  day  in  great  style  to  visit  him.  Sze  received 
him  in  a  tattered  coat,  and  Tsze-kung  asking 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


80 


COCTCCIAS  ASAUCTS. 


i^t mw mmt  . 

&.&%  &.M  BM  =f*2,  M 

that  a  superior  man  helps  the  distressed,  but  does  not  add  to  the 
wealth  of  the  rich." 

3.  Yuen  Sze  being  made  governor  of  his  town  by  ike  Mcuter,  he 
gave  him  nine  hundred  measures  of  grain,  but  Sze  declined  them. 

4.  The  Master  said,  "  Do  not  decline  them.  May  you  not  give 
them  away  in  the  neighbourhoods,  hamlets,  towns,  and  villages?" 

Chapter  IV.  The  Master,  speaking  of  Chung-kung,  said,  "If 
the  calf  of  a  brindled  cow  be  red  and  horned,  although  man  may 
not  wish  to  use  it,  would  the  spirits  of  the  mountains  and  rivers  pot 
it  aside?" 

Chapter  V.  The  Master  said,  "  Such  was  Hwuy  that  for  three 
months  there  would  be  nothing  in  his  mind  contrary  to  perfect  vir- 
tue. The  others  may  attain  to  this  on  some  days  or  m  some  months, 
but  nothing  more." 


him  if  he  were  ill,  he  replied,  *I  have  heard  that 
to  have  no  money  it  to  be  poor,  and  that  to 
•tudy  truth  and  not  be  able  to  find  it  if  to  be 
ill.'  This  answer  tent  Tsze-kung  away  in 
confusion.  The  900  measures  (whatever  they 
were)  was  the  proper  allowance  ior  an  officer  of 

Sze's  station,    JQ  ^  2^?,  See  V.  7,  though 

it  is  not  easy  to  give  the  ^  the  same  reference 

here  as  in  that  paHsage.  4.  According  to  ancient 
statutes,  a  //»,  a  /e,  a  htuny,  and  a  tuuy,  hare 
each  their  specific  number  of  component  fami- 
lies, but  the  meaning  is  no  more  than — 'the 

poor  about  you.'  Jjfc  makes  the  remark  =*'  may 

you  not,  &c.' 

4.  The  vices  or  a  father  should  not  dis- 
credit a  virtuous  son.  The  father  of  Chung- 
kung  (see  V.  2)  was  a  man  of  bad  character,'  and 
sonic  would  have  visited  this  upon  his  son, 
which  drew  forth  Conf.  remark.  The  rules  of 
the  Chow  dyn.  required  that  sacrific.  victims 
s|iould  be  red,  and  have  good  horns.    Au  ani- 


mal with  those  quaL,  tbo'  it  might  spring  from 
one  not  possessing  them,  would  certainly  not 
be  unacceptable  on  that  account  to  the  spirits 
sacrificed  to.  I  translate  -7-  by  'calf,'  bat  st 
b  not  implied  that  the  victim  was  young,  -gj, 
up.  2d  tone,=^,  'to  lay  aside,'  'to  put  away.' 

5.  The  superiority  of  Hwut  to  the  otr*r 
disciples.  It  is  impossible  to  say  whether  we 
should  translate  here  about  Hwuy  in  the  past 

or  present  tense,  iffi  here  is  not  jfi  Tj.  **> 
oppose/  but  jj|  £,  'to  depart  from.'  JJ  JJ 
gj|,'cometoiVi.c.,  the  line  of  perfect  vims, 
'  in  the  course  of  a  day,  or  a  month.'  JJ  H  mar 
i  also  be,  'for  a  day  or  a  month,'    So  in  the  |J 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


C0OTUC1AN  ANALECTS. 


51 


=?  pa  m  * 

^  $  n  *  ft 

#  *  £  fo4 

mm    4 


ft  pT 

0.Hc 


4 

0,-f 


Chapter  VI.  Ke  K'ang  asked,  "Is  Chung-yew  lit  to  be  employ- 
ed as  an  officer  of  government?"  The  Master  said,  "Yew  is  a  man 
of  decision ;  what  difficulty  would  he  find  in  being  an  officer  of 
government?"  K'ang  asked,  "Is  Tsze  fit  to  be  employed  as  an 
officer  of  government  ?"  and  was  answered,  "  Tsze  is  a  man  of  intelli- 
gence; what  difficulty  would  he  find  in  being  an  officer  of  govern- 
ment?" And  to  the  same  question  about  K'ew  the  Master  gave 
the  same  reply,  saying,  "K'ew  is  a  man  of  various  ability." 

Chapter  V II.  The  chief  of  the  Ke  family  sent  to  ask  Min  Tsze- 
k'een  to  be  governor  of  Pe.  Min  Tsze-k'een  said,  "  Decline  the  offer 
for  me  politely.  If  any  one  come  again  to  me  with  a  second  invi- 
tation, I  shall  oe  obliged  to  go  and  live  on  the  banks  of  the  Win." 

S.    The  qualities  of  Tbze-loo,  Tsze-kuxg, 

AND  TSES-YEW,  AND  THEIR   COMPETENCY  TO  A8- 

iut  ui  government.  The  prince  is  called  ^jjjj 
jfijr  5&S  'the  doer  of  government ;'  his  minis- 
tecs  and  officers  are  styled  iffe  J£fc  5j£,  'the 

foQomen  of  government.'  ^  ijjl  and  ffi  ^ 

ftve  set,  the  one  expression  against  the  other,  the 
fiRmer  indicating  a  doubt  of  the  competency  of 
the  disciples,  the  latter  affirming  their  more 
than  competency. 

7.  Mm  Tbze-k'kbn  refuses  to  serve  the 
Ki  family.  The  tablet  oi'  Teze-k'een  (his  name 

*«  Jli)  is  now  the  first  on  the  east  among 

(the  vise  ones*  of  the  temple.    He  was  among 


the  foremost  of  the  disciples.  Conf.  praises  his 
filial  piety,  and  we  see  here,  how  he  could  stand 
firm  in  his  virtue,  and  refuse  the  proffers  of 
powerful  but  unprincipled  families  of  his  time. 
(lijc=fi|f    A    5jfc  ,22,  in  the  transL,  and  in 

4||  (fou>i  l°w'  &*  tone)  ;Jfr  ^ft",  we  must  simi- 

read  Pe,  was  a  place  belonging  to  the  Ke  family. 
Its  name  is  still  preserved  in  JBf  lK  in  the 

depart,  of  ffi  J44,  in  Shan-tung.    The  Wan 

stream  divided  Ts'e  and  Loo.  Tsze-k'een  threat- 
ens, if  he  should  be  troubled  again  to  retreat 
to  Ts'e,  where  the  Ke  family  could  not  reach 
him. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


52 


C0WPCCIA5  ANALECTS. 


&  b>*L  19  ffc. K  W  4, ¥. ^ 
40#     4  #  3fc  ^  W  h.^ 

^  pjs  la  m  m  t  t- 

^  A  —  &M  &  £> 


&>£Hr 


Chapter  VIII.  Pih-new  being  sick,  the  Master  went  to  ask  for 
him.  He  took  hold  of  his  hand  through  the  window,  and  .said,  "It 
is  killing  him.  It  is  the  appointment  of  Heaven,  alas !  That  such 
a  man  should  have  such  a  sickness !  That  such  a  man  should  have 
such  a  sickness!" 

Chapter  IX*  The  Master  said,  "  Admirable  indeed  was  the  vir- 
tue of  Hwuy !  With  a  single  bamboo  dish  of  rice,  a  single  gourd  dish 
of  drink,  and  living  in  his  mean  narrow  lane,  while  others  could  not 
have  endured  the  distress,  he  did  not  allow  his  joy  to  be  affected  by 
it     Admirable  indeed  was  the  virtue  of  Hwuy  !" 

Chapter  X.  Yen  K'ew  said,  "  It  is  not  that  I  do  not  delight 
in  your  doctrines,  but  my  strength  is  insufficient."  The  Master 
said,  "Those  whose  strength  is  insufficient  give  over  in  the  middle 
of  the  way,  but  now  you  limit  yourself." 

verb  ~{f  £9  <  It  it  killing  him,*  ^,  low.  lit 

tone,  generally  an  initial  particle=(  now.'  It  i* 
here  final,  and=  *  alas ! ' 

9.  The  happiness  of  Hwuy  independent 

of  poverty.    The  ^K  w«*  dimply  *  pieoa  of 

the  stem  of  a  bamboo,  and  the  5ft  half  of  a 

gourd  cut  into  two.   ^£,  See  IL  8.  The  eulogy 

turns  much  on  _1£  in  J£  »,  as  opposed  to 

3£  35»  '  *»•  j°y/  ti*e  delight  which  he  had 
in  the  doctrines  of  his  master,  contrasted  with 
the  grief  others  would  have  felt  under  such 
poverty. 

10.  A  HIGH  Am  AND  PERSEVERANCE    PROFOt 

to  a  student.  Conf.  would  not  admit  K'ew's 
apology  for  not  attempting  more  than  he  did. 
*  Give  over  in  the  middle  of  the  way,'  i".  ft.  they 
go  as  long  and  as  far  as  they  .can,  they  are 
pursuing  when  they  stop. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


8.    Lament  of  Confucius  over  the  mortal 
sicenbss  of  Pih-new.     Pih-new,    *  elder   or 

uncle  New/  was  the  denomination  of  j£.  *tfc 

who  had  an  honourable  place  among  the  dis- 
ciples of  the  sage.  In  the  old  interpn,  his  sickness 

is  said  to  have  been  3S  jfe ,  *  an  evil  disease,' 

by  which  name  leprosy,  called  #3,  is  intended, 

though  that  char,  is  now  employed  for  *  itch.' 
Suffering  from  such  a  disease,  Pih-new  would 
not  see  people,  and  Confucius  took  his  hand 
through  the  window.  A  differ,  explanation  of 
that  circumstance  is  given  by  Choo  He.  He  says 
that  sick  persons  were  usually  placed  on  the 
north  side  of  the  apartment,  but  when  the  prince 
visited  them,  in  order  that  he  might  appear  to 
them  with  his  face  to  the  south  (see  eh.  1 ),  they 
were  moved  to  the  south.  On  this  occasion, 
Pih-new's  friends  wanted  to  receive  Conf.  after 
this  royal  fashion,  which  he  avoided  by  not 

entering  the  house.    ~£j  appears  as  au  act. 


COOTUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


53 


H  A  0^  fir  M  «?  &  H  + 

*P!J6  **:?«*  Tit 

*#    *,*0k   ##. 

Chapter  XL  The  Master  said  to  Tsze-hea,  "  Do  you  be  a  scho- 
lar after  the  style  of  the  superior  man,  and  not  after  that  of  the 
mean  man." 

Chapter  XIL  Tsze-yew  being  governor  of  Woo-shing,  the  Mas- 
ter said  to  him,  "Have  you  got  good  men  there?"  He  answered^ 
uThere  is  Tan-t'ae  Meg-ming,  who  never  in  walking  takes  a  short 
cut,  and  never  comes  to  my  office,  excepting  on  public  business." 

Chapter  XIII.  The  Master  said,  "M&ng  Che-fan  does  not  boast 
of  his  merit.  Being  in  the  rear  on  an  occasion  of  flight,  when  they 
were  about  to  enter  the  gate,  he  whipt  up  his  horse  saying,  i  It  is 
not  that  I  dare  to  be  last.     My  horse  would  not  advance.'" 

11.  HOW  LEARNING  8HOULD  BE  PURSUED.  3* 

-^-  and  yj%    k^  here*=adjectives,  qualifying 


jSi-  The  W[  -?*> {t  i8  "**  learng  *%  3' 

&  his  own  real  improvement  and  from  duty ; 

*heyj>  ^  learning  ^  \,  'for  men,'  with  a 

view  to  their  opinion,  and  for  his  own  material 
benefit. 

12.  The  character  of  Tan-t'ae  Mke-mino. 
The  ch.  shows,  according  to  Chinese  comm.,  the 
advantage  to  people  in  authority  of  their  having 
good  men  about  them.  In  this  way  after  their 
^*ual  fashion,  they  seek  for  a  profound  meaning 
in  the  remark  of  Conf.  Tan-t'ae  Mee-ming,  who 

w«  ityled  -^  ^JjJ,  has  his  tablet  the  2d  east 

outride  the  hall.  The  accounts  of  him  are 
^^conflicting.  Ace.  to  one,  he  was  very  good- 
jooking,  while  another  says  he  was  so  bad-look- 
lrM?  that  Conf.  at  first  formed  an  unfavourable 
°P**iou  of  him,  an  error  which  he  afterwards 
^wfessed  on 


travelled  southwards  with  not  a  few  followers, 
and  places  near  Soo-chow  and  elsewhere  retain 

names  indicative  of  his  presence.  T=i  fin  ^p-, 
three  particles  coming  together  are  said  to 
indicate    the   slow  and  deliberate   manner  in 

which  the  sage  spoke.     ™r  80  58',  Comp. 

|g  |Bj  %  in  ch.  2.  H?  is  said  to=^  ^. 

13.  The  virtue  op  Mang  Che-fan  in  con- 
cealing his  merit.  But  where  was  his  virtue 
in  deviating  from  the  truth  ?  And  how  could 
Conf.  commend  him  for  doing  so?  These  ques- 
tions have  never  troubled  the  commentators. 

Mang  Che-fan,  named  /[Bl],  was  an  officer  of 

Loo.  The  defeat,  after  which  he  thus  distin- 
guished himself  was  in  the  11th  year  of  duke 
Gae,  B.  C.  483.    To  lead  the  van  of  an  army  is 

called  Jgjjr,  to  bring  up  the  rear  is  J9&-    In  re- 


treat, the  rear  is  of  course  the  place  of  honour, 
im,  an  error  wmen  ne  arterwaras      pu, 
MeC-ming's  becoming  eminent.  He  /  T^v  aee  ' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


64 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


pi  am* a  as  ^  fe 

mm,    a    m £ 


Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  "  Without  the  specious  speech 
of  the  litanist  T'o,  and  the  beauty  of  the  prince  Chaou  of  Sung,  it  ia 
difficult  to  escape  in  the  present  age." 

Chapter  XV.  The  Master  said,  "Who  can  go  out  but  by  the 
door?  How  is  it  that  men  will  not  walk  according  to  these  ways?  " 
I  Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "Where  the  solid  qualities  are 
|  in  excess  of  accomplishments,  we  have  rusticity ;  where  the  accomplish- 
ments are  in  excess  of  the  solid  qualities,  we  have  the  manners  of 
a  clerk.  When  the  accomplishments  and  solid  qualities  are  equally 
blended,  we  then  have  the  man  of  complete  virtue." 

Chapter  XVII.  The  Master  said,  "  Man  is  born  for  uprightness. 
If  a  man  lose  his  uprightness,  and  yet  live,  his  escape  from  death  is 
the  effect  of  mere  good  fortune." 


14.  THK  DEGENERACY  OF  THE   AGE   ESTEEM- 
ING GIIBNB8S  OF  TONGUE  AND  BEAUTY  OF  PERSON. 

j|J£,  'to  pray,*  'prayers;'  here,  in  the  concrete, 

the  officer  charged  with  the  prayers  in  the  an- 
cestral temple.  I  have  coined  the  word  litanist  to 
come  as  near  to  the  meaning  as  possible.  This 
T'o  was  an  officer  of  the  state  of  Wei,  styled 

•T* /&  •  Prince  Chaou  had  been  guilty  of  incest 
with  Ms  sister  Nan-tsse  (see  ch.  26),  and  after- 
wards, when  she  was  married  to  the  duke  Ling 
of  Wei,  he  served  as  an  officer  there,  carrying 
on  his  wickedness.    He  was  celebrated  for  his 

beauty  of  person,   ffijj  is  a  simple  connective, 

*=&&,  and  the  >f\  is  made  to  belong  to  both 
clauses.  This  seems  the  correct  construction, 
tho'  unusual.  The  old  coram,  construe  differ- 
ently:— 'If  a  man  have  aot  the  speech  of  T'o, 
though  he  may  have  the  beauty  of  Chaou,  &c,' 
making  the  degeneracy  of  the  age  all  turn  on 
its  fondness  for  specious  talk.  This  can't  be 
right. 

15.  A  LAMENT  OVER  THB  WAYWARDNESS  OF 


men's  conduct.    Ifaf  j|£, ( These  ways,'  in  a 


moral  sense ;— not  deep  doctrines,  but  rules  of 
life. 

16.  The  equal  blending  of  solid  excel* 
lbnce  and  ornamental  accomplishments  ie 

a  complete  character,     fft,  'an  historian,' 

an  officer  of  importance  in  China.  The  term, 
however,  is  to  be  understood  here  of  'a  clerk,' 
'a  scrivener  in  a  public  office,'  one  that  is  of  a 
class  sharp  and  well  informed,  but  insincere. 

17.  Life  without  uprightness  is  not  true 

LIFE,    AND    CANNOT   BE    CALCULATED    ON.      <N© 

more  serious  warning  than  this,'  says  one  comak, 
'was  ever  addressed  to  men  by  Confucius/ 
A  distinction  is  made  by  Choo  He  and  others 

between  the  two  Zj: ,  that  the  1st  is  jfa  /{?, 

'birth,'  or  '  the  beginning  of  life,'  and  the  2d  is 

/fc  &,  '  preservation  in  life.'  ^  £  /J£ 

fy  ]|[\  'The  being  born  of  man  is  upright,' 

which  may  mean  either  that  man  at  his  birth  is 
upright,  or  that  he  is  born  for  uprightness.    I 

prefer  the  latter  view.  |JJ  £  /£  -qj,  'The 
living  without  it,'  if  we  take  ^  =ffa  <*  '* 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COKFUCIAN  ANALICT8. 


55 


it  wit  n 


T  4o  A  « 


tt 


Chapter  XVIII.  The  Master  said,  "They  who  know  the  truth 
are  not  equal  to  those  who  love  it,  and  they  who  love  it  are  not 
equal  to  those  who  find  pleasure  in  it." 

Chapter  XIX.  The  Master  said,  "To  those  whose  talents  are 
above  mediocrity,  the  highest  subjects  may  be  announced.  To 
those  who  are  below  mediocrity,  the  highest  subjects  may  not  be 
announced." 

Chapter  XX.  Fan  Ch'e  asked  what  constituted  wisdom.  The 
Master  said,  "To  give  one's-self  earnestly  to  the  duties  due  to  men, 
and,  while  respecting  spiritual  beings,  to  keep  aloof  from  them,  may 
be  called  wisdom."  He  asked  about  perfect  virtue.  The  Master  said, 
"The  man  of  virtue  makes  the  difficulty  to  be  overcome  his  first  busi- 
ness, and  success  only  a  subsequent  consideration ; — this  may  be 
called  perfect  virtue." 


defame  H,'  if  |gj  =g|i-  We  long  here  as  else- 
where for  more  perspicuity  and  fuller  develop- 
ment of  view.  An  important  truth  struggles 
here  for  expression,  but  only  finds  it  imperfectly. 
Without  uprightness  the  end  of  man's  existence 
i*  not  fulfilled,  but  his  preservation  in  such  case 
is  not  merely  a  fortunate  accident. 
18.  Different  stages  of  attainment.   The 

four  ^  have  all  one  reference,  which  must  be 

jg  or  ]££,  the  subject  spoken  of. 
IS.  Teach  BBS  must  bb  guided  in  commuxi- 

CKtncO  KNOWLEDGE  BT  THE  SUSCEPTIVITY  OF 
THE  LEABNEBS.     In   Uj[      1%      H.  *8  rea(*  UP*  2d 

toae,  a  verbal  word,  and  not  the  prep,  'upon,' 
10  the  T\  in  W  ""K  is  also  verbal  as  in  IIL 
7.  The  pfa  A  ,  'or  mediocre  people,*  may  have 

all  classes  of  subjects  announced  to  them,  I 
•oppose. 
20.  Chief  elements  ik  wisdom  and  vtbtue. 

lie  modem  comm.  take  0J  here  ae=  ^ ,  and 


right  according  to  the  principles  of  humanity.' 
With  some  hesitation,  I  have  assented  to  this 

view,  though  |3  properly  means  '  the  multi- 
tude,' *  the  people,'  and  the  old  interpr.  explain — 
'Strive  to  perfect  the  righteousness  of  the  peo- 
ple.' We  may  suppose  from  the  second  clause 
that  Fan  Ch*e  was  striving  after  what  was  un- 
common and  superhuman.  For  a  full  exhi- 
bition of  the  phrase  Q  jjjjjj,  see  (tj  JjjJ,  XVL 
Here  it=  'spiritual  beings,'  manes  and  others. 
|g,  up.  8d  tone.  jS  ^\  'Keep  at  a  distance 
from  them,'  not  'keep  them  at  a  distance.'  The 
sage's  advice  therefore  is — 'attend  to  what  are 
plainly  human  duties,  and  do  not  be  supersti- 
tious.' -4q  and  ^  are,  as  frequently  else- 
where, verbs,  'put  first,'  'put  last.'  The  old 
interpreters  take  them  differently,  but  not  to 
weU. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


56 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


>l>    ^    —    #0 

The  Master  said,  "The  wise  find  pleasure  in 
water;  the  virtuous  find  pleasure  in  hills.  The  wise  are  active;  the 
virtuous  are  tranquil.  The  wise  are  joyful,  the  virtuous  are  long- 
lived." 

Chapter  XXII.  The  Master  said,  "Ts'e,  by  one  change,  would 
come  to  the  state  of  Loo.  Loo,  by  one  change,  would  come  to  a  state 
where  true  principles  predominated." 

Chapter  XXIII.  The  Master  said,  "A  cornered  vessel  without 
corners. — A  strange  cornered  vessel!  A  strange  cornered  vessel!" 

Chapter  XXI V.  Tsae  Go  asked,  saying,  "A  benevolent  man, 
though  it  be  told  him,— '  There  is  a  man  in  the  well/  will  go  in  after 
him,  I  suppose."     Confucius  said,  "Why  should  he  do  so?  A  supe- 


21.  CONTRASTS  OP  THE  WISE  AND  THE  vir- 
tcous.  The  two  first  ^  are  read  ngaou,  low. 
3d  tone,= j|£  ^,  'to  find  pleasure  in.'  The 
wise  or  knowing  are  active  and  restless,  like 
the  waters  of  a  stream,  ceaselessly  flowing  and 
advancing.  The  virtuous  are  tranquil  and  firm, 
like  the  stable  mountains.  The  pursuit  of 
knowledge  brings  joy.  The  life  of  the  virtuous 
may  be  expected  to  glide  calmly  on  and  long. 
After  all,  the  saying  is  not  very  comprehensible. 

22.  Thb  condition  op  the  states  Ts'e  and 
Loo.  Ts'e  and  Loo  were  both  within  the  pre- 
sent Shan-tung.  Ts'e  lay  along  the  coast  on 
the  north,  embracing  the  present  dep.  of  ifr  J4J 
and  other  territory.  Loo  was  on  the  south,  the 
larger  portion  of  it  being  formed  by  the  pre- 
sent dep.  of  jg  ^j.  At  the  rise  of  the  Chow 
dynasty,  king  Woo  invested  "J£  XI  ]|£ ,  the 
great  duke  Wang/  with  the  principality  of  Ts'e, 
while  his  successor,  king  Shing,  constituted  the 


supe- 

son  of  his  uncle,  the  famous  duke  of  Chow, 
prince  of  Loo.  In  Conf.  time,  Ts'e  had  degen- 
erated more  than  Loo.  ^§*  is  -4^  T  ^£  sit 

m£  5*v  ^w  iS'  '^e  ent^re^v  B°°&  an^  admi- 
rable ways  of  the  former  kings.' 

23.  The  name  without  the  reality  is  folxt. 

This  was  spoken  (see  the  |H:  jS?)  with  ref.  to 

the  governments  of  the  time,  retaining  ancient 

names  without  ancient  principles.    The  jbA 

was  a  drinking  vessel;  others  say  a  wooden 
tablet.  The  latter  was  a  later  use  of  the  term. 
It  was  made  with  corners  as  appears  from  the 
composition  of  the  character,  which  is  formed 

from  to,  'a  horn,'  'a  sharp  corner/    In  Conf. 

time,  the  form  was  changed,  while  the  name 
was  kept. 

24.  The  benevolent  exercise  their  bene- 
volekce  with  prudence.  Tsae  Go  could  see  no 
limitation  to  acting  on  the  impulses  of  benevo- 
lence.   We  are  uot  to  suppose  with    modern 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


n 


*■■ 


=? 


A£ 


&> 


>N 


lull 

pfiL 


rior  man  may  be  made  to  go  to  the  well,  but  he  cannot  be  made  to  go 
down  into  it     He  may  be  imposed  upon,  but  he  cannot  be  befooled." 

Chapter  XXV.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man,  exten- 
lively  studying  all  learning,  and  keeping  himself  under  the  restraint  of 
the  rules  of  propriety,  may  thus  likewise  not  overstep  what  is  right" 

Chapter  AAV!.  The  Master  having  visited  Nan-tsze,  Tsze-loo 
was  displeased,  on  which  the  Master  swore,  saying,  "  Wherein  I  have 
done  improperly,  may  Heaven  reject  me!  may  Heaven  reject  me!" 

Chapter  XXVII.  The  Master  said,  "  Perfect  is  the  virtue  which 
is  according  to  the  Constant  Mean !  Rare  for  a  long  time  has  been 
it»  practice  among  the  people." 

26.  Comrucnjs  vtjtdic  atjw  hivsslf  fob  visit* 

IHG  THIS    UNWORTHY   NaH-TSZB.      Nan«t*Ze  WU 

the  wife  of  the  duke  of  Wei,  and  sister  of  prince 
Chaou,  mentioned  ch.  14.  Her  lewd  character 
was  well  known,  and  hence  Tsze-loo  was  dis- 


that  he  wished  to  show  that  benevolence 
*a*  impracticable.  jtf|  belongs  to  the  whole  fol- 
lowing clause,  especially  to  the  mention  of  a  well. 
The  second  ^  is  for  J^.  ijifc  — <fy  indicate 
•ome  4eubt  in  Go's  mind-  ObsT  the  hophal  force 

25.  Tim  happy  effbvct  or  lbarhivo  ajtd 
hophett  combdibd.  jSt  <7-  has  here  its 
lighter  meaning,^'  the  student  of  what  is  right 
•ad  tnae.'  The  j£  in  £fy  £  we  naturally 
wfer  to  t£,  but  comparing  IX.  10, 2— #J  ffc 
Jj/J  jjjj,— we  may  assent  to  the  observe,  that 

^  *tS  tL  H^  '* refera  to  *** letrner§  own 

person.'  See  note  oa  IV.  23.  ^  ( the  boundary 

of  a  10^;' then,  'to  orerstep  that  boundary.' 

5j  ^ ,  as  in  V.  S6>  but  the  force  here  is  more 
'ah!' than  'alas!' 


pleased,  thinking  an  interview  with  her  was 
disgraceful  to  the  Master,  Great  pains  are 
taken  to  explain  the  incident.  'Nan-tsze,'  says 
one, '  sought  the  interview  from  the  stirrings  of 
her  natural  conscience.'  'It  was  a  rule,'  says  an- 
other, '  that  officers  in  a  state  should  visit  the 
prince's  wife.'  'Nan-tsze,'  argues  a  third,  « had 
all  influence  with  her  husband,  and  Confucius 
wished  to  get  currency  by  her  means  for  his  doc- 
trine.' Whether  ^  is  to  be  understood  in  the 

^m^of'toswear/^or'toinakeadecUra. 
tion'~|Jj£,  if  much  debated.    Evidently,  the 

thing  is  an  oath,  or  solemn  protestation  against 
the  suspicions  of  Tsze-loo. 

27.  Thb  DEFacnva  practice  of  the  pboplb 

or  CcCTccxua'  ma*.   See  (ft  j£,  UL 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


58 


comruciAH  akalects. 


m  *e  W  f&  M  B.  H  M 
Pf  W  JL  $f  &  T"  &. 


Be 


Chapter  XXVIII.  1.  Tsze-kung  said,  "  Suppose  the  ease  fcf» 
man  extensively  conferring  benefits  on  the  people,  and  able  to  iwt 
all,  what  would  you  say  of  him?  Might  he  be  called  perfectly  wr- 
tuous?  "  The  Master  said,  "  Why  speak  only  of  virtue  in  connec 
tion  with  him?  Must  he  not  have  the  qualities  of  a  sage?  Eve* 
Yaou  and  Shun  were  still  solicitous  about  this. 

2.  "Now  the  man  of  perfect  virtue,  wishing  to  be  established 
himself,  seeks  also  to  establish  others ;  wishing  to  be  enlarged  himself 
he  seeks  also  to  enlarge  others. 

3.  "  To  be  able  to  judge  of  others  by  what  is  nigh  in  ourselves;— 
this  may  be  called  the  art  of  virtue." 


28.    The  teue  nature  and  ast  of  totce. 
There  are  no  higher  sayings  in  the  Analects 

than  we  hare  here.  1.  Jttf ,  up  8d  tone,  'to  con- 
fer benefits.'    gg  ^— ^  is  said  to  be  'a 

particle  of  doubt  and  uncertainty,'  but  it  is 
rather  the  interrogative  affirmation  of  opinion. 
Tsze-kung  appears  to  have  thought  that  great 
doings  were  necessary  to  virtue,  and  propounds 
a  case  which  would  transcend  the  achievements 


of  Yaou  and  Shun.  From  such  exUataf* 
views  the  Master  recalls  him.    2.  This  is  tat 

description  of  \Z  %  £  4j>  fiS»  ,tbe  u 
of  the  perfectly  virtuous  man '  as  void  crfalltrf- 
flshness.   8.  It  is  to  be  wished  that  the  idea 

intended  by  ffe  ]J£  j$[  Sfe  had  been  m 

clearly  expressed.  Still  we  seem  to  have  hen 
a  near  approach  to  a  positive  enunciation  4 
'the  golden  rule.' 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


59 


BOOK  VII.  SHUH  URH. 


■ftto  jgfcr    p^j   2d^   gar  ps*5 

Chapter  I.  The  Master  said,  "A  transmitter  and  not  a  maker, 
believing  in  and  loving  the  ancients,  I  venture  to  compare  myself 
with  our  old  P'ang." 

Chapter  II.  The  Master  said,  uThe  silent  treasuring  up  of 
knowledge ;  learning  without  satiety ;  and  instructing  others  with- 
out being  wearied : — what  one  of  these  things  belongs  to  me?" 

Chapter  III.  The  Master  said,  "The  leaving  virtue  without 
proper  cultivation ;  the  not  thoroughly  discussing  what  is  learned ; 
»ot  being  able  to  move  towards  righteousness  of  which  a  knowledge 
is  gained;  and  not  being  able  to  change  what  is  not  good : — these 
are  the  things  which  occasion  me  solicitude." 


HlADWO  OF  THIS  BOOI— jttfc  jfij  j£  J\fr.  ' A 

transmitter,  and BookVII.'    We  have  in 

Ab  book  much  information  of.  a  personal  char- 
acter about  Contnctoa,  both  from  his  own  lips, 
and  from  the  descriptions  of  his  disciples.  The 
two  preceding  books  treat  of  the  disciples  and 
other  worthies,  and  here,  in  contrast  with  them, 
ve  hare  the  sage  himself  exhibited. 
1.  Confucisjs  disclaims  being  an  origina- 

wm  or  makes.  U^fll^lfil^, 'simply 
to  hand  down  the  old.'  Comm.  say  the  master's 
language  here  is  from  his  extreme  humility. 
But  we  must  hold  that  it  expresses  his  true 
*nse  of  his  position  and  work.  Who  the  indi- 
vidual called  endearingly  'our  old  P'ang'  was, 
can  hardly  be  ascertained.  Choo  He  adopts 
the  Tiew  that  he  was  a  worthy  officer  of  the 
8haag  dynasty.  But  that  individual's  history  is 
•  maw  of  fables.  Others  make  ^r  $£  to  be 
Laou-tsze,  the  founder  of  the  Taou  sect,  and 
others  again  make  two  individuals,  one  this 

Uon-tsxe,  and  the  other  that  j^  jjj[. 

1    COKFUCIUS'    HUMBLE    ESTIMATE    OP    H1M- 

•**•*.  |g£,  here  by  most  scholars  read  cAe,  up. 


3d  tone,  'to  remember.'  ^  refers,  it  is  said,  to 
jj|,  'principles,'  the  subjects  of  the  silent  ob- 
servation and  reflection,  fa  ^  ^  f§  jqj£» 
cannot  be — '  what  difficulty  do  these  occasion 

the  transl.  'The  language,'  says  Choo  He,  'it 
that  of  humility  upon  humility.'    Some  insert, 

in  their  expL,  jj£  tfy  before  fa— 'Besidea 

these,  what  is  there  in  me  ? '  But  this  is  quite 
arbitrary.  The  profession  may  be  inconsistent 
with  what  we  find  in  other  passages,  but  the 
inconsistency  must  stand  rather  than  violence 
be  done  to  the  language.  Ho  An  gives  the  sin- 
gular exposition  of  ^  |p£  J|J£  (about  A.  D. 

150—200)—'  Other  men  have  not  these  things,  I 
only  have  them.' 

3.  Confucius'  anxiety  about  his  self-cul- 
tivation : — Another  humblk  estimate  of  him- 
self. Here  again,  comm.  find  only  the  expres- 
sions of  humility,  but  there  can  be  no  reason  why 
we  should  not  admit  that  Confucius  was  anxious 
lest  these  things,  which  are  only  put  forth  as 
possibilities,  should  become  in  his  case  actual 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


60 


OttfttJCtAV  A9AL8CV& 


ji  &, 9  %  m 

.....    ^Afif 

ftPHl^.^    H,    ^     ^ 


Chapter  IV.    When  the  Master  was  unoccupied  with 
his  manner  was  easy,  and  he  looked  pleased 

Chapteb  V.  The  Master  said,  "Extreme  ferny  decay.  For  a 
long  time,  I  have  not  dreamed,  as  I  was  wont  to  do,  that  I  saw  tfat 
duke  of  Chow." 

Chapter  VI.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Let  the  will  be  set  on  the 
path  of  duty. 

2i     "  Let  every  attainment  in  what  is  good  be  firmly  grasped 

8.     "  Let  perfect  virtue  be  accorded  with. 

4.     "Let  relaxation  and  enjoyment  be  found  in  the  polite  arts. 


facts.   =g|  ism  the  seiiseextrtait^m  the  Diet, 

by  the  term*  ^  and  *£>,  'practising,*  «ex- 
■mining*' 

4*  r$vm  m ahhee  ofr  Cowrtfcius  whbh  tmoc- 
ttfnwxh  The  fin t  clause,  which  ii  the  subject 
of  the  other  two,  it  literally—'  The  master's 
dwelling  at  ease.'    Ob*.  ^,  tip.  3d  tone;  ^, 

tip.  1st  tone;  £fj,  as  in  m,  28* 

5.  HOW  THE  DISAPPOINTMENT  OF  CofTFrCIUS' 
HOPES  AFPBCTED  EVBE   HIS  D1BAMS.       ffi  £> 

(Chow-kung)U  now  to  all  intents  a  proper  name) 
but  the  characters  mean  •  the  duke  of  Chow/ 
Chow  was  the  name  of  the  seat  of  the  family 
from  which  the  dynasty  so  called  sprang,  and 
on  the  enlargement  of  this  territory,  king  Win 
dirided  the  original  seat  between  his  sons  H 
(Tan)  and  |||  (Shih).  Tan  was  Chow  hmg>  in 
wisdom  and  politics,  what  his  elder  brother,  the 
first  emperor,  Woo,  was  in  arms.  Confucius 
had  longed  to  bring  the  principles  and  institu- 
tion* of  Chow*kung  into  practice,  and  in  his 
earlier  years,  while  hope  animated  him*  had 
often  dreamt  of  the  former  sage.  The  orig.  ter- 
ritory of  Chow  was  what  is  now  the  dis.  of  K*e- 

•^0^  li|)i  **  <*  Fwg-tseangCj^  ffi\ 
In  Sben-se» 


6.  RttLM  rom  the  pull  MATcitiEe  or  cms* 
actbb.  3.  4&  might  be  translated  virtue,  fadl 
f""***'  perfect  Yirttte '  following,  we  require  an- 
other term.  4.  jffi, « to Eatable for  amwmmmt* 
here*' to  seek  recreatkML'  ^b,  see  note  on  ^ 

in  I.  6.  A  full  enumeration  makes  'six  srts,* 
rix.,  ceremonies,  musk,  archery,  dtanoteerisf, 
the  study  of  characters  of  language,  and  figtief 
or  arithmetic.  The  ceremonies  were  ranged  is 
five  classes :  lucky  of  sacrifices,  unlucky  or  *** 
mourning  cer..  military,  those  of  boat  ssfl* 
guest,  and  festive.  Music  required  the  study  of 
the  music  of  Hwang-te,  of  Yaou,  of  Shua>  d 
Yu.  of  T*ang,  and  of  Woo.  Archery  had  a  ftte- 
folu  classification.  Charioteering  had  the  ssise. 
The  study  of  the  characters  required  the  exa- 
mination of  them,  to  determine  whether  then 
predominated  in  their  formation  resemblance  to 
the  object,  combination  of  ideas,  indication  d 
properties,  a  phonetic  principle,  a  principle  <& 

imoaati 


contrariety,  or  metaphorical 
Figures  were  managed  according  to  nine  raH 
as  the  object  was  the  measurement  of  land,  es* 
pacity,  Ac  These  six  subjects  were  the  bus* 
ness  of  the  highest  and  most  liberal  edncetios, 
but  we  need  not  suppose  that  Cent  had  sat* 
all  in  view  here. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COmjClAK  ANALECTS. 


61 


j»  *  iul^  :*  -  «  *  g 

JAb.     TO*0**** 


Chapter  VII.  The  Master  said,  "From  the  man  bringing  his 
bundle  of  dried  flesh  for  my  teaching  upwards,  I  have  never  refused 
instruction  to  any  one." 

Chapter  VTIL  The  Master  said,  "  I  do  not  open  up  the  truth 
to  one  who  is  not  eager  to  get  knowledge,  nor  help  out  any  one  who 
is  not  anxious  to  explain  himself.  When  I  have  presented  one 
corner  of  a  subject  to  any  one,  and  he  cannot  from  it  learn  the  other 
three,  I  do  not  repeat  my  lesson." 

Chapter  IX.  1.  When  the  Master  was  eating  by  the  side  of  a 
mourner,  he  never  ate  to  the  full. 

2.  He  did  not  sing  on  the  same  day  in  which  he  had  been  weep- 
ing. 

Chapter  X.  1.  The  Master  said  to  Yen  Yuen,  "When  called 
to  office  to  undertake  its  duties;  when  not  so  called,  to  lie  retired; 
— it  is  only  I  and  you  who  have  attained  to  this." 

7. 


The  readiness  of  Confucius  to  impart 
eestbuction.  It  was  the  rule  anciently  that 
wheat  one  party  waited  on  another,  he  should 
tarry  some  present  or  offering  with  him.  Pupils 
did  so  when  they  first  waited  on  their  teacher. 
Of  such  offerings,  one  of  the  lowest  was  a 

handle  of  j&,  'dried  flesh/    The  wages  of  a 

teacher  are  now  called  j&  ^fe»,  '  the  money  of 

the  dried  flesh.'  However  small  the  offering 
brought  to  the  sage,  let  him  only  see  the  indica- 
tion of  a  wish  to  learn,  and  he  imparted  his 
instructions.  J£j[  J%  may  be  translated  'up- 
ward*/ i.  *,  '  to  such  a  man  and  others  with 
larger  gifts,'  J^  being  up.  2d  tone,  or  the  char. 
May  be  understood  in  the  sense  of  'attending 
my  instructions,'  with  its  usual  tone.  I  prefer 
the  former  interpretation. 

ft.  Confucius  required  a  real  desire  and 
abort  in  his  disciples.  The  last  ch.  tells  of 
the  sage's  readiness  to  teach,  this  shows  that 


he  did  not  teach  where  his  teaching  was  likely 
to  prove  of  no  avail,   tip,  in  the  comm.  and 

diet,  i»  explained  P  ft  #  jffi  3?  $?  £ 
<pjk  'the  appearance  of  one  with  mouth  wish- 
ing to  speak  and  yet  not  able  to  do  so.'  This 
being  the  meaning,  we  might  have  expected 

the  character  to  be  Up.  Kj£,  '*°  turn,'  is  ex- 
plamed  j@  J^^^^^ 'going round 
for  mutual  testimony.'  yKw-yK  -ffj  'jjf 
Jjff  ^ ,  'I  tell  him  nothing  more.' 

9.  Confucius'  sympathy  with  mourners. 
The  weeping  Is  understood  to  be  on  occasion  of 
offering  his  condolences  to  a  mourner,  which 
was  'a  rule  of  propriety.' 

10.  The  attainments  op  Hwut  like  those 
of  Confucius.    The  excessive  boldness  or 

Tmb-loo.    Lbf^^^^h* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  LC 


62 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


+-* 


X 


§  #?  %  fa  ff  % 


T  K 

0f  «  ±.  *  J«  &  SB  IN  £ 

•£»  4*      W  #.  0,  0, 

#n  Si      «  W  *  T 


2.  Tsze-loo  said,  "  If  you  had  the  conduct  of  the  armies  of  a 
great  state,  whom  would  you  have  to  act  with  you?  " 

3.  The  Master  said,  "I  would  not  have  him  to  act  with  me,  who 
will  unarmed  attack  a  tiger,  or  cross  a  river  without  a  boat,  dying 
without  any  regret.  My  associate  must  be  the  man  who  proceeds 
to  action  full  of  solicitude,  who  is  fond  of  adjusting  his  plans,  and 
then  carries  them  into  execution." 

Chapter  XL  The  Master  said,  "  If  the  search  for  riches  is  sure 
to  be  si*,  cessfuL,  though  I  should  become  a  groom  with  whip  in 
hand  to  get  them,  I  will  do  so.  As  the  search  may  not  be  successful, 
I  will  follow  after  that  which  I  love." 

Chapter  XII.  The  things  in  reference  to  which  the  Master 
exercised  the  greatest  caution  were — fasting,  war,  and  sickness. 


plained  by  jft,  but  we  hare  seen  that  ^  foil, 
active  verbs  imparts  to  them  a  sort  of  neuter 
signification,  ^fi^*'™**-*  Jg^^-'ne- 
giectedV  3.  A  Kemn,  ace.  to  the  ^jj$jfyj||,  con- 
sisted of  12,500  men.  The  imperial  forces  con- 
sisted of  six  such  bodies,  and  those  of  a  great 

state  of  three.    8.   £fc  $  j£|  jfcj\  see  She- 

king,  II.  ii.  1,  st.  5.  tf|  does  not  indicate  timidi- 
ty, but  solicitude, — Tsze-loo,  it  would  appear, 
was  jealous  of  the  praise  conferred  on  Hwuy, 
and  pluming  himself  on  his  bravery,  put  in  for 
a  share  of  the  Master's  approbation.  But  he 
only  brought  on  himself  this  rebuke. 

11.  Tub  uncertainty  and  follt  of  the 
pursuit  or  riches.  It  occurs  to  a  student  to 
understand  the  first  clause — 'If  it  be  proper  to 
search  for  riches,'  and  the  third — 'I  will  do  it.' 
But  the  transt  is  ace.  to  the  modern  coram.,  and 
the  conclusion  agrees  better  with  it.    In  expl. 


v$t  fit  <0l  i »  8ome  refer  ^  to  the  attendants 
who  cleared  the  street  with  their  whips  when 
the  prince  went  abroad,  but  we  need  not  seek 

any  particular  allusion  of  the  kind.  Obs.  fljj^* 

;|fc  'if,'  and  then,  ^p*=<  since.'— An  objection 

to  the  pursuit  of  wealth  may  be  made  on  the 
ground  of  righteousness,  or  on  that  of  its  un- 
certainty. It  is  the  latter  on  which  Confucius 
here  rests. 

12.    What  things  Confucius  was  particu- 
larly careful  about.    SB,  read  Chat,  and= 

zSS,  'to  fast,'  or,  rather,  denoting  the  whole  re- 
ligious adjustment,  enjoined  before  the  offer- 
ing of  sacrifice,  and  extending  over  the  ten  days 
previous  to  the  great  sacrificial  seasons.  3K 
means  '  to  equalise'  (see  II.  8),  and  the  effect  of 
those  previous  exercises  was  3£  ^K  29^  £££ 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


63 


me, 

0,  Tjt  -fr  0, 

fit 

*#  A 

S  £n,  -cL 

fa^s  a  $# 


i=+=i    :2T*     A«m 

igai  jgi    4gj 

M  ^  %  *»  # 

B,  B,  4o  0, 


Chapter  XIII.  When  the  Master  was  in  Ts'e,  he  heard  the 
Shaou,  and  for  three  months  did  not  know  the  taste  of  flesh.  "  I 
did  not  think,"  he  said,  "that  music  could  have  been  made  so 
excellent  as  this." 

Chapter  XIV.  1.  Yen  Yew  said,  "  Is  our  Master  for  the  prince 
of  Wei  ? "    Tsze-kung  said,  "  Oh !  I  will  ask  him." 

2.  He  went  in  accordingly,  and  said,  "  What  sort  of  men  were 
Pih-e  and  Shuh-ts'e?"  "They  were  ancient  worthies,"  said  the  Mas- 
ter. "Did  they  have  any  repinings  because  of  their  cour$iit"  The 
Master  again  replied,  "They  sought  to  act  virtuously,  and  they  did 
so ;  what  was  there  for  them  to  repine  about?"  On  this,  Tsze-kung 
went  out  and  said,  "  Our  Master  is  not  for  him." 


§§£  5?'  **°  M*in8t  what  waa  not  ^justed,  to 
produce  a  perfect  adjustment.'  Sacrifices  pre- 
sented in  such  a  state  of  mind  were  sure  to  be 
acceptable.  Other  people,  it  is  said,  might  be 
heedless  in  refer,  to  sacrifices,  to  war,  and  to 
sickness,  but  not  so  the  sage. 

13.  The  effect  of  MUSIC  OK  CONFUCIU8. 
The  ihaou,  see  II.  25.  This  incident  must  have 
happened  in  the  36th  year  of  Conf.,  when  he  fol- 
lowed the  duke  Ch'aou  in  his  flight  from  Loo  to 

Te^e.  As  related  in  the  j{t  jig,  *  Historical  Re- 
cords,' before  the  characters  ^£  0 ,  we  have  iffi 

Jy^9  'he  learned  it  three  months,'  which  may 

relieve  us  from  the  necessity  of  extending  the 
three  months  over  all  the  time  in  which  lie  did 
not  know  the  taste  of  his  food.    In  Ho  An's 

compilation,  the  ^  £fl  is  expi.  by  fa  jfo, 

'fee-  was  careless  about  and  forgot.'    The  last 

C-fctue  is  also  explained  there — *I  did  not  think 

.that  this  music  bad  reached  this  country  of 


14.  Confucius  did  not  approve  of  a  sow 
opposing  his  father.  1.  The  eldest  son  of 
duke  Ling  of  Wei  had  planned  to  kill  his  mother 
(?  stepmother),  the  notorious  Nan-tsze  (VI.  26). 
For  this  he  had  to  flee  the  country,  and  his  son, 

on  the  death  of  Ling,  became  duke  ({£}  JK\ 
and  subsequently  opposed  his  father's  attempts 
to  wrest  the  sovereignty  from  him.  This  was 
the  matter  argued  among  the  disciples,— Was 

Confucius  for  (i§fc  low.  8d  tone),  the  son,  the 

reigning  duke  ?  2.  In  Wei  it  would  not  have 
been  ace.  to  propriety  to  speak  by  name  of  its 
ruler,  and  therefore  Tsze-kung  put  the  case  of 
Pih-e  and  Shuh-ts'e,  see  V.  22.  They  having 
given  up  a  throne,  and  finally  their  lives,  rather 
than  do  what  they  thought  wrong,  and  Con* 
fucius  fully  approving  of  their  conduct,  it  waa 

Slain  he  could  not  approve  of  a  son's  holding 
y  force  what  was  the  rightful  inheritance  of 

the  father.  5J£  jp  ffij  ^  £^,  'They  sought 
for  virtue,  and  they  got  virtue ;'  i.  e^  such  waa 
the  character  of  their  conduct. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


64 


COOTUCIAM  ANALECTS. 


I!I»  ffi  *©  ~f"  H  Jt  ^   fif  H 

$&  ^>    f  %  $t 

Chapter  XV.  The  Master  said,  "With  coarse  rice  to  eat,  with 
water  to  drink,  and  my  bended  arm  for  a  pillow; — I  have  still  joy 
in  the  midst  of  these  things.  Riches  and  honours  acquired  by  unright- 
eousness are  to  me  as  a  floating  cloud." 

Chapter  XVL  The  Master  said,  "If  some  years  were  added  to 
my  life,  I  would  give  fifty  to  the  study  of  the  Yih,  and  then  I  might 
come  to  be  without  great  faults." 

Chapter  XVII.  The  Master's  frequent  themes  of  discourse  were 
— the  Odes,  the  History,  and  the  maintenance  of  the  Rules  of  pro* 
priety.     On  all  these  he  frequently  discoursed. 

15.  The  jot  of  Coxtucius  ihdbfibndrvt  of 
ODTviiD  CUCDM8TANOB8.  |j&,  low.  2d  tone,  'a 
meal/  alio,  as  here,  avert,  'to  eat.'  Jjjfc,  up.  8d 
tone,  'to  pillow,'  Ho  use  at  a  pillow.'  Critics 
call  attention  to  3^  making  the  sentiment— 
*My  joy  is  everywhere.  It  is  amid  other  circum- 
stances. It  is  also  here.'  JJ\  jfe ^ ■  X  ,='By 
unrighteousness  I  might  get  riches  and  honours, 
but  such  riches  and  honours  are  to  me  as  a 
floating  cloud.  It  is  vain  to  grasp  at  them,  so 
uncertain  and  unsubstantial.' 

16.  The  value  which  Coefvchts  set  upok 
the  sxui>r  op  the  Yih.  Choo  He  supposes  that 
this  was  spoken  when  Conf.  was  about  seventy, 
as  he  was  m  his  68th  year  when  he  ceased  his 
wanderings,  and  settled  in  Loo  to  the  adjust- 
ment and  compilation  of  the  Yih  and  other 
king.  If  the  remark  be  referred  to  that  time, 
an  error  may  well  be  found  in  fj^  -p,  for 
he  would  hardly  be  speaking  at  70  of  having 
BO  years  added  to  his  life.  Choo  also  mentions 
the  report  of  a  certain  individual  that  he  had 
ieen  a  copy  of  the  Lun  Yu,  which  read  'jg  for 

/)Q,and2$£frr^.  Amended  thus,  the  mean- 


ing  would  be— «If  I  had  some  mors  years  to  finish 
the  study  of  the  Yih,  &c'  Uo  An  interprets 
the  chapter  quite  differently.  Referring  to  the 
saying,  II.  4,  4,  'At  fifty,  I  knew  the  decrees  of 
heaven,'  he  supposes  this  to  have  been  spoken 
when  Conf.  was  47,  and  explains — 'In  a  lew 
years  more  I  will  be  fifty,  and  have  finished 
the  Yih,  when  I  may  be  without  great  faults.' 
— One  thing  remains  upon  both  views : — Con* 
fucius  never  claimed,  what  his  followers  do  for 
him,  to  be  a  perfect  man. 

17.    Confucius'  most  comhox  topics,    3*, 

'The  History,'  t.  c,  the  historical  documents 
which  he  compiled  into  the  Shoo-king  that  has 

come  down  to  us  in  a  mutilated  condition.  j|4r 

also,  and  much  less  jjjB,  must  not  be  under- 
stood of  the  now  existing  She-king  and  Le-ke. 
Choo  He  explains  JJ|fj  (low.  2d  tone)  by  *&, 
'constantly.'  The  old  interpr.  Chlng,  explains 
it  byTP  'correctly,'—'  Conf.  would  speak  of  the 
Odes,  &c.,  with  attention,  to  the  correct 
ciation  of  the  characters.'  This  does  not 
so  good. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


65 


fe« 


iE*.  #>  T  3**  J&  %  T*  H 
3*        #  B,  £  £.  B.J&  <& 


TO* 


Chapter  XVIII.  1.  The  duke  of  She  asked  Tsze-loo  about  Con- 
fucius, and  Tsze-loo  did  not  answer  him. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "Why  did  you  not  say  to  him,— He  is  simply 
a  man,  who  in  his  eager  pursuit  of  knowledge  forgets  his  food,  who  ' 
in  the  joy  of  its  attainment  forgets  his  sorrows,  and  who  does  not 
perceive  that  old  age  is  coming  on  ?" 

Chaptbb  XIX  The  Master  said,  "  I  am  not  one  who  was  born 
in  the  possession  of  knowledge ;  I  am  one  who  is  fond  of  antiquity, 
and  earnest  in  seeking  it  there." 

Chapter  XX.  The  subjects  on  which  the  Master  did  not  talk, 
were — extraordinary  things,  feats  of  strength,  disorder,  and  spiritual 
beings. 

IS.     Cohfucius'  DsaomiPTioir  of  hischab- 

ACXSB,  AS  BB1VO  SIMPLY  A  MOST  BABBB8T  LBAB- 

m.     1.  ^  (read  a**)  wm  a  district  of  Tfoo 

(4ft  )»  the  governor  or  prefect  of  which  had 
usurped  the  title  of  hutg.  It*  name  ia  still 
pieeotrod  in  a  district  of  the  dep.  of  j&  |^r, 

in  (fee  south  of  Ho-nan.    2.  «^*  sometimes 

■manga  a  sentence  (Premare,  lclaudu  orationcm'), 

■there.  The  B  after  it— S,  imparting  to  all 

the  preceding  description  a  meaning  indicated 
by  our  simply  or  only. 

19.    Covfooius'  mrowLRDGB  nor  cownatb, 

SVT   THX   mnSULT  OF   HIS    STUDY  OF  AHTIQUITT. 

Sere  again,  ace.  to  comm.,  is  a  wonderful  In- 
■fence  of  the  sage's  humility  disclaiming  what 
be  renlly  had.  The  comment  of  ^*  ^Q  f£t 
lubjoined  to  Choo  He's  own,  is  to  the  effect 
thai  the  knowledge  horn  with  a  man  is  only 

f%  "^  3£'  w^e  ceremonies,  music,  names 


of  things,  history,  Ac,  must  he  learned.  This 
would  make  what  we  may  call  connate  or 
innate  knowledge  the  moral  sense,  and  those 
intultire  principles  of  reason,  on  and  hy  which 
all  knowledge  is  built  up.  But  Confucius  could 
not  mean  to  deny  his  being  possessed  of  these. 
'I  love  antiquity;'  i«^  the  ancient*  and  all 
their  works. 

20.  Subjects  avoidkd  bt  Cowfuchjs  in  cob> 
▼bbsation.  UL  'confusion,'  meaning  rebellious 
disorder,  parricide,  regicide,  and  such  crimes. 
Choo  He  makes  ^  here— j^  jjj$  jjSt  jfc 
Z,  $Jj»  *^e  m7,*er*0U**  or  spiritual  opera* 
tions  apparent  in  the  course  of  nature/  3p 
jjjjy  (died  A.  D.  266),  as  given  by  Ho  An,  simply 

aay*~  j^  R$  £  $> <tbe  affairi  of  sp^tual 
beings.'  For  an  instance  of  Conf.  avoiding  such 
a  subject,  see  XL  11. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


6* 


C0NTUC1A*  AHALBCT8. 


-  m  ^  K4  w  #  a 


Chapter  XXI.  The  Master  said,  "When  I  walk  along  with  two 
others,  they  may  serve  me  as  my  teachers.  I  will  select  their  good 
qualities  and  follow  them,  their  bad  qualities  and  avoid  them." 

Chapter  XXII.  The  Master  said,  "Heaven  produced  the  virtu* 
that  is  in  me*     Hwan  Thiy — what  can  he  do  to  me?" 

Chapter  XXIII.  The  Master  said,  "  Do  you  think,  my  disciples, 
that  I  have  any  concealments?  I  conceal  nothing  from  you.  That 
is  nothing  which  I  do  that  is  not  shown  to  you,  my  disciples  ;-r-that 
is  my  way." 

Chapter  XXIV.  There  were  four  things  which  the  Master 
taught, — letters,  ethics,  devotion  of  soul,  and  truthfulness. 

88.    Confucius  pticnuD  no  cotscmujuat 
with  ma  disciples.    J^  ~  Jp,  see  TO.  H, 

BS  is  explained  by  Choo  He  by  jjfc,  'to  ■bow,' 

a*  if  the  meaning  were,  'There  is  not  one  of 
my  doings  in  which  I  am  not  showing  my  doc- 
trines to  yon.'    But  the  common  aignif .  of  S 

may  be  retained,  as  in  Ho  An, — '  which  is  not 
given  to,  shared  with,  yon.'  To  what  the  con- 
cealment has  reference  we  cannot  telL  Observe 

the  force  of  ^  foil,  by  ^  at  the  end:— 'To 

hare  none  of  my  actions  not  shared  with  yon, 
—that  is  I,  Hew.' 

24.    The  subjects  or  Confucius  tkachtso. 

VX  P3  !$b  <took  fonr  thiD^»  *°d  *"*■*•* 
There  were  four  things  which — not  four  way* 

in  which — Confucius  taught,  "fr  heres^ur  us? 
offaftr*  fJ-^^0^ ,'whatisdany 
used  in  the  relations  of  Hfe.'  jfe=^j| — ^ 
^  yfC  ^t  'not  a  single  thought  mot  cm* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


91.  How  a  *aW  mat  find  nrsTKucrons  fob 
himself.  ^Zl  A  &r,  'Three  men  walking;' 
but  It  ia  implied  that  the  speaker  ia  himself  one 
of  them.    The  comm.  all  take  j$  in  the  sense 

of  'to  distinguish,'  'to  determine.' — 'I  will  de- 
termine the  one  who  is  good,  and  follow  him, 
Ac'  I  prefer  to  understand  as  in  the  transla- 
tion. |jjj£  £,  'change  them,'  £*>»  correct 
them  in  myself  aroid  them. 

22.  CoNFVCIUS  CALX  IN  DANOBB,  THEOUGB 
THB   ASSURANCE   OF    HAVING  A  DIVINE   MISSION. 

Ace.  to  the  historical  accounts,  Conf.  was  pass- 
ing through  Sung  in  his  way  from  Wei  to 
Ch'in,  and  was  practising  ceremonies  with  his 
disciples  under  a  large  tree,  when  they  were  set 
upon  by  emissaries  of  Hwan  T'uy,  a  high  officer 
of  Sung.  These  pulled  down  the  tree,  and 
wanted  to  kill  the  sage.  His  disciples  urged 
him  to  make  haste  and  escape,  when  he  calmed 
their  fears  by  these  words.  At  the  same  time, 
he.  disguised  himself  till  he  had  got  past  Sung. 
This  story  may  be  apocryphal,  but  the  saying 
remains,— a  remarkable  one. 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


«? 


3r 
to 


I*     flfJII 


Chapter  XXV.  1.  The  Master  said,  "A  sage  it  is  not  mine  to  see ; 
could  I  see  a  man  of  real  talent  and  virtue,  that  would  satisfy  me." 

2.  The  Master  said,  "A  good  man  it  is  not  mine  to  see;  could  I 
tee  a  man  possessed  of  constancy,  that  would  satisfy  me. 

3.  "Having  not  and  yet  affecting  to  have,  empty  and  yet  affect- 
ing to  be  full,  straitened  and  yet  affecting  to  be  at  ease ; — it  is  diffi- 
cult with  such  characteristics  to  have  constancy." 

Chapteb  XXVI.  The  Master  angled, — but  did  not  use  a  net 
He  shot, — but  not  at  birds  perching. 

Chapter  XXVII.  The  Master  said,  "There  may  be  those  who 
act  without  knowing  why.  I  do  not  do  so.  Hearing  much  and 
selecting  what  is  good  and  following  it,  seeing  much  and  keeping  it 
in  memory,: — this  is  the  second  style  of  knowledge.11 


« tingle  thing  without  its  reality.'    These  are 

the  explanation*  in  the  (HJ  §  jg  *g\    I 

coafem  to  apprehend  but  vaguely  the  two  latter 
•abject*  a*  distinguished  from  the  second. 
25.    Thb  paucitt  or  tbu»  mun  nc,  ahd  the 

wmnouajaE**  or,  Coxr  ucius'  time.  -7*  Q , 
iw.  2,  is  supposed  by  souwto  be  an  addition  to  the 

text.  That  being  so,  we  hare  in  the  ch.  a  climax 
of  character: — the  man  of  constancy,  or  the 
single-hearted,  stedfast  man;  the  good  man, 
who  on  his  single-heartedness  has  built  up  his 
virtue;  the  Keun-tsze,  the  man  of  virtue  in  large, 
proportions,  and  intellectually  able  besides ;  and 

the  sage,  or  highest  style  of  man.    ffi,  from 

JC,  pi ,  and  -^£,  'ear,  mouth,  and  good,'« 
intuitively  apprebensire  of  truth,  and  correct  in 
utterance  and  action.  Comp.Menoiu*>VILiL24. 


26.  Thb  huxakitt  or  CoHmcrus.    jfe|  is 

properly  the  large  rope  attached  to  a  net,  by 
means  of  which  it  may  be  drawn  so  as  to  sweep 

r.  stream.    -£\  'to  shoot  with  a  string  tied  to 

the  arrow,  by  which  it  may  be  drawn  back 

again.'   h\,  applied  to  such  shooting,  lower  4th 

tone,  read  shih.  Confucius  would  only  destroy 
what  Life  was  necessary  for  his  use,  and  in 
taking  that  he  would  not  take  advantage  of 
the  inferior  creatures.  This  ch.  is  said  to  be 
descriptive  of  him  in  his  early  life. 

27.  Against  acting  heedlessly.  Paou 
Heen,  in  Ho  An,  says  that  this  was  spoken  with 
ref  .  to  heedless  compilers  of  records.  Choo  He 
makes  >ffe^  simply =^jfe,  (to  do  things,' 
4  to  act.'  The  paraphrasts  make  the  latter 
part  descriptive  of  Confucius — *I  hear  much. 
&c.'  This  is  not  necessary,  and  the  transL  had 
better  be  as  indefinite  as  the  original. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


68 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECW. 


Chaptbb  XXVIII.  1.  It  was  difficult  to  talk  with  the  people  of 
Hoo-heang,  and  a  lad  of  that  place  having  had  an  interview  with 
the  Master,  the  disciples  doubted. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  I  admit  peoples  approach  to  me  without 
committing  myself  as  to  what  they  may  do  when  they  have  retired. 
Why  must  one  be  so  severe?  If  a  man  purify  himself  to  wait  upon 
me,  I  receive  him  so  purified,  without  guaranteeing  his  past  conduct." 

Chapter  XXIX.  The  Master  said,  "Is  virtue  a  thing  remote? 
I  wish  to  be  virtuous,  and  lo !  virtue  is  at  hand." 

Chapter  XXX.  1.  The  minister  of  crime  of  Ch'in  asked  whether 
the  duke  Ch'aou  knew  propriety,  and  Confucius  said,  "  He  knew 
propriety." 

28.     THB  BBADINB88  OT  COBFUCIUS  TO  MEBT 
JLFFBOACHBS  TO  HIM  THODOH   MAD!  BT  THB  UK- 

likblt.  1.  In  ~B  ^f|$,  the  fi{  appears  to  be 
like  our  local  termination  ham. — 'The  people  of 
Hoo-ham.'  Its  site  is  now  sought  in  three  dif- 
ferent places.  2.  Choo  He  would  here  trans- 
pose the  order  of  the  text,  and  read   K  28 

g,  ^^immediately  after  ^  0.  He 
also  supposes  some  characters  lost  in  the  sen* 
tence  Pf£  >fBf  *^.    This  is  hardly  necessary. 

&L  at  inY.  8, 8,*»§£,  (to  allow/  'to  concede 
to?  ' 


29.  VlBTUB  18  HOT  FAB  TO  SBKK. 


.after 


-3d,  implies  the  negative  answer  to  be  give*. 

80.  HOW  COKFTJCIUS  ACKNOWLEDGED  HIS  BB- 

bob.  1.  Ch«in,  one  of  the  states  of  China  in 
Conf  .  time,  is  to  be  referred  probably  to  the  pre- 
sent department  of  Ch'in-chow  in  He-nan  pro- 
vince. Bl  B£  wa*  tne  name  given  in  Ch*in 
and  Tsoo  to  the  minister  elsewhere  called 
f|J  |&,  which  terms  Morrison  and  Medfeurst 
translate— 'criminal  judge.'  But  judge  does 
not  come  up  to  his  functions,  which  were  legis- 
lative as  well  as  executive.  He  was  the  advi- 
ser of  his  sovereign  on  all  matters  relating  to 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


A   -4 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 

Af7 
&  0^ 


69 


Ml 


2.  Confucius  having  retired,  the  minister  bowed  to  Woo-ma  K'e 
to  come  forward,  and  said,  "  I  have  heard  that  the  superior  man  is 
not  a  partizan.  May  the  superior  man  be  a  partizan  also  ?  The  prince 
married  a  daughter  of  the  house  of  Woo,  of  the  same  surname  with 
himself,  and  called  her, — *  The  elder  lady  Tsze  of  Woo'.  If  the 
prince  knew  propriety,  who  does  not  know  it?" 

3.  Woo-ma  K'e  reported  these  remarks,  and  the  Master  said,  "  I 
am  fortunate !    If  I  have  any  errors,  people  are  sure  to  know  them." 

Chapter  XXXI.  When  the  Master  was  in  company  with  a  per- 
son who  was  singing,  if  he  sang  well,  he  would  make  him  repeat 
the  song,  while  he  accompanied  it  with  his  own  voice. 

Chapter  XXXII.  The  Master  said,  "  In  letters  I  am  perhaps 
equal  to  other  men,  but  the  character  of  the  superior  man,  carrying  out 
in  his  conduct  what  he  professes,  is  what  I  nave  not  yet  attained  to." 


Ch«aou  wm  the  hon.  ep.  of  Chow(jffl),  duke  of 
1*0,  B.  C.  541-609.  He  had  a  reputation 
for  the  knowledge  and  observance  of  ceremo- 
nbt,  and  Conf.  answered  the  minister*!  ques- 
tion accordingly,  the  more  readily  that  he  was 
•peaking  to  the  officer  of  another  state,  and  was 
taad,  therefore,  to  hide  any  failings  that  his 
ova  sovereign  might  hare  had.  2.  With  all 
his  knowledge  of  proprieties,  the  duke  Ch'aou 
had  violated  an  import,  rule, — that  which  for- 
fcdj  the  intermarriage  of  parties  of  the  same 
■orname.  The  ruling  houses  of  Loo  and  Woo 
were  branches  of  the  imperial  house  of  Chow, 
and  consequently  had  the  same  surname— Ke 

( j|£).    To  conceal  his  violation  of  the  rule, 

(tam  catted  his  wife  by  the  suraameTmC^^ 
M  if  she  had  belonged  to  the  ducal  house  of 
Sag.  Jjk  up.  8d  tone«^S.  8.  Conf.  takes 
tbt  criticism  of  his  questioner  rery  lightly. 


81.     Tn   GOOD  FELLOWSHIP  OF  COHFUCIVS. 

On  this  chapter,  see  the  ^  £  ^  §||, 

which  states  very  distinctly  the  interpretation 
which  I  have  followed,  making  only  two  sing- 
ings and  not  three.  J^pt  lower  8d  tone,  herew 
4  to  sing  in  unison  with.9 

83.    AOKHOWTBDQMBHT  OF  CONFUCIUS  »  B8- 

TMATnio  himsblf.  ^  here  occasions  some  diffi- 
culty. Ho  An  takes  it,  as  it  often  i*,*"^,  **<* 
explains,  'I  am  not  better  than  others  in  letters.9 
In  the  diet,  with  ref.  to  this  pass.,  it  is  ex- 
plained by  jjjB>  so  that  the  meaning  would  be— 
'By  effort,  I  can  equal  other  men  in  letters.* 
Choo  Hemaketit^^ft,  a 'particle  of  doubt,* 
-■'perhaps.'  But  this  is  formed  for  the  occasion. 
K^tt Wf^F'  'ftn-in-person-acting  kmm-t**.9 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


70 


0ONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£1 


m 


MLf 


m  m  H.^  IE  pT  #  T 

**  b>i|  *  h,  jk n 


Chaptbb  XXXIII.  The  Master  said,  "The  sage  and  the  man  of 
perfect  virtue; — how  dare  I  rank  myself  with  ihemf  It  may  simply 
he  said  of  me,  that  I  strive  to  become  such  without  satiety,  and 
teach  others  without  weariness. "  Kung-se  Hwa  said,  "  This  is 
just  what  we,  the  disciples,  cannot  imitate  you  in." 

Chaptbb  XXXIV.  The  Master  being  very  sick,  Tsze-loo  asked 
leave  to  pray  for  him.  He  said,  "May  such  a  thing  be  done?" 
Tsze-loo  replied,  "  It  may.  In  the  Prayers  it  is  said,  *  Prayer  has 
been  made  to  the  spirits  of  the  upper  and  lower  worlds. "  The 
Master  said,  "  My  praying  has  been  for  a  long  time. " 

S3.    What  Coktuoiub  DSCLI9BD  TO  BB  cov- 

•IDEBBD,  AMD  WHAT  HB  CLA1HXD.    ^  and  J)!} 

are  said  to  be  correlatires,  in  which  case  they*, 
oar  ♦although'  and  'yet.'  More  naturally,  we 
nay  join  jjg>  directly  with  |g  Jjl  \,  and 

take  jfo  as«our  'but/  ^  |||,  see  ch.  18,  2. 

Pf  ^,  added  to  -^  W,  increases  its  em- 
pha8is,='just  this  and  nothing  more.' 

84.  Confucius  DxexnnM  to  be  prated  fob. 
^^togethermean'rerysick.'  ^  |§> 
gj|  is  interrogative,  as  we  find  it  frequently  in 

Mentius.    g^, '  To  write  a  eulogy,  and  confer 

the  posthumous  honorary  title ;'  also, '  to  eulo- 
gize in  prayer,'  u  e.,  to  recite  one's  excellencies 
as  the  ground  of  supplication.  Tsze-loo  must 
have  been  referring  to  some  well  known  collec- 
tion of  such  prayers.    In  |J|  g|,  W  seems 


rather  to  be  an  expletive  than  the  pronoun. 

Y   "K=heaven  and  earth,  )^  being  the 

approp.  desig.  of  the  spirits  of  the  former,  and 

jjj£  of  the  latter.— Choo  He  says,  'Prayer  is 

the  expression  of  repentance  and  promise  of 
amendment,  to  supplicate  the  help  of  the  spirits. 
If  there  may  not  be  those  things,  then  there  is 
no  need  for  praying.  In  the  case  of  the  sage, 
he  had  committed  no  errors,  and  admitted  of  no 
amendment.  In  all  his  conduct  he  had  been  in 
harmony  with  the  spiritual  intelligences,  and 
therefore  he  said, — my  praying  ha$  been  Jar  a 
long  time.'  We  may  demur  to  some  of  these 
expressions,  but  the  declining  to  be  prayed  for, 
and  concluding  remark,  do  indicate  the  satisfac- 
tion of  Confucius  with  himself.  Here,  as  in 
other  places,  we  wish  that  our  information 
about  him  were  not  so  stinted  and  fragmentary. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


06N7UCL&K  ANALECTS. 


71 


>ft  2tm.  iRollk  0i        ^  W»  Bk 


3fe 


Chapteb  XXXV.  The  Master  said,  "Extravagance  leads  to 
insubordination,  and  parsimony  to  meanness.  It  is  better  to  be  mean 
than  to  be  insubordinate." 

Chapter  XXXVI.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  is 
satisfied  and  composed ;  the  mean  man  is  always  full  of  distress." 

C&APTBR  XXXVII.  The  Master  was  mild,  and  yet  dignified; 
majestic,  and  yet  not  fierce ;  respectful,  and  yet  easy. 

35.    Mbahkbsb  hot  so  bad  as  iksubobdina-    leyd  plain' u»edadTerbiaUy  with  l*,««lig!it. 

86.      COWTBASTIH  THBIB  FEELINGS  BBTWKEW      '  C*?™**^?' 

«r  JXt    «  37'     **OW  VAMOUS  ELBXBBTS  MODIFIED  OUS 

tbbKbuw-tsxb  amd  thb  mean  mam.    jjj,  a   ahoxhbb  w  ttt*  ohaeactbr o#  Cohiuohjs. 


BOOK  V1IL  T'AE-PIH. 


MK^c^^"^ 


Chapteb  I.  The  Master  said,  "T'ac-pih  may  be  said  to  have 
reached  the  highest  point  of  virtuous  action.  Thrice  he  declined 
the  empire,  and  the  people  in  ignorance  of  his  motives  could  not  ex- 
press their  approbation  of  his  conduct." 


The  headdio  of  this  book.— ^te  4}a  4ff 

/^  '  T*ae-pih,  Book  eighth.'  As  in  other  cases, 

the  first  words  of  the  hook  give  name  to  it.  The 
ntbjecU  of  the  chapter  are  miscellaneous,  hut  it 
begins  and  ends  with  the  character  and  deeds 
of  ancient  sages  and  worthies,  and  on  this  ac- 
count it  follows  the  seventh  chapter,  where  we 
have  Confucius  himself  described. 


1.  Thb  exceeding  virtue  of  T'ab-pih.  THw- 
plh  was  the  eldest  son  of  king  T<ae  (^X 
the  grandfather  of  Wan,  the  founder  of  the 
Chow  dynasty.  T'ae  had  formed  the  intention 
of  upsetting  the  Tin  dyn^  of  which  T*ae-pih 
disapproved.  T'ae  moreover,  because  of  the 
sage  virtues  of  his  grandson  Ch'ang(S),  who 
afterwards  became  king  Wan,  wished  to  hand 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


72 


CONFUCIAN  ANALBCT8. 


%  £  g*a  n  m  tF 

#i  ft  $  &  &  &  & 


PC  "P^  M  )l!!  W§  )l».a        

*  *  &  ft  gfl  18  J9I  M0  ^ 
B^ 

Chapter  II.  1.  The  Master  said,  "  Respectfulness,  without  the 
rules  of  propriety,  becomes  laborious  bustle ;  carefulness,  without  the 
rules  of  propriety,  becomes  timidity ;  boldness,  without  the  rules  of 
propriety,  becomes  insubordination;  straightforwardness,  without 
the  rules  of  propriety,  becomes  rudeness. 

2.  "  When  those  who  are  in  high  stations  perform  well  all  their 
duties  to  their  relations,  the  people  are  aroused  to  virtue.  When 
old  friends  are  not  neglected  by  them,  the  people  are  preserved 
from  meanness/' 

Chapter  III.  The  philosopher  Tsing  being  sick,  he  called  to 
him  the  disciples  of  his  school,  and  said,  "  Uncover  my  feet,  uncover 
my  hands.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  i  We  should  be  appre- 
hensive and  cautious,  as  if  on  the  brink  of  a  deep  gulf,  as  if 
treading  on  thin  ice,'  and  so  have  I  been.  Now  and  hereafter,  I  know 
my  escape  from  dU  injury  to  my  person,  0  ye,  my  little  children." 

down  hit  principality  to  hit  8d>on,  Ch'ang's 
father.  T*ae-pih  observing  this,  and  to  escape 
opposing  hU  father's  purpose,  retired  with  his 
second  brother  among  the  barbarous  tribes  of 
the  south,  and  left  their  youngest  brother  in 
possession  of  the  state.  The  motives  of  his 
conduct  T'ae-pih  kept  to  himself,  so  that  the 

people  >p  A  jjjj  jB}^>  'oould  not  find  how 
to  praise  him.'  There  is  a  difficulty  in  making 
out  the  refusal  of  the  empire  thru  times,  there 
being  different  accounts  of  the  times  and  ways 
in  which  he  did  so.  Choo  He  cuts  the  knot,  by 
making  *  thrice  W  firmlr,'  in  which  solution  we 
may  acquiesce.  There  is  as  great  difficulty  to 
And  out  a  declining  of  the  sntptre  in  T'ae-pih's 
withdrawing  from  the  petty  state  of  Chow.  It 
may  be  added  that  king  Woo,  the  first  emperor  of 
the  Chow  dyn.,  subsequently  conferred  on  T*ae- 
pih  the  posthumous  title  of  Chief  of  Woo 

(ijjL),  the  country  to  which  he  had  withdrawn, 

and  whose  rude  inhabitants  gathered  round 
him.  His  second  brother  succeeded  him  in  the 
government  of  them,  and  hence  the  ruling  house 
of  Woo  had  the  same  surname  as  the  imperial 

house  of  Chow,  that  namely  of  Tsze(Jp).  See 
VII.  80.  «{jj  Q  ^»  give  emphasis  to  the 
preceding#doclaration.    Comp.  L  14. 


2.    Thb  value  or  the  rules  or  pmormixrr ; 

A1CD  Or  EXAMPLE  IN  THOSE  IN  HIGH  STATIONS.   1. 

We  must  bear  in  mind  that  the  ceremonies,  or 
rules  of  propriety,  spoken  of  in  these  books,  are 
not  mere  conventionalities,  but  the  ordinations 
of  man's  moral  and  intelligent  nature  in  the 

line  of  what  i*  proper,  j^,  'to  strangle,'  is  here 

explained  by  Chow  He  by  jj^j^J.  Ho  An,  after 
Ma  Tung  (early  part  of  2d  century  X  makes  it 
»jj^jkj,  'sarcasm.'  2.  There  does  not  seem 
any  connection  between  the  for.  paragraph  and 
this,  and  hence  this  is  by  many  considered  to 
be  a  new  chap.,  and  assigned  to  the  philosopher 

Tseng.    jEk  «5p,  diff.  here  from  its  previoas 

usage,  haying  reference  more  to  the  4jf  or 
station  of  the  individuals  indicated,  than  to 
their  $J  or  virtue.  ffc^-j^gL^^* 
'old  ministers  end  old  intimacies'  4j£i,  often, 
a  verb, '  to  steal ; '  here  an  adj.,  'mean.' 

8.  Thb  philosophbb  Tsang's  filial  pibtt 
SEEM  IK  HIS  CARS  Or  HIS  PERSON.  We  get  our 
bodies  perfect  from  our  parents,  and  should  so 
preserve  them  to  the  last.  This  is  a  great 
branch  of  filial  piety  with  the  Ch.,  and  this  ch. 
is  said  to  illustrate  bow  Tsing-tsze  had  made 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


COSyUCIAH  ANALECT8. 


TS 


=f. 


#f  J*>#- 


it 


It  ft 

Chapter  IV.  1.  The  philosopher  Ts&ng  being  sick,  Mang  King 
rent  to  ask  how  he  was. 

2.  Ts&ng  said  to  him,  "  When  a  bird  is  about  to  die,  its  notes  are 
aournful ;  when  a  man  is  about  to  die,  his  words  are  good. 

3.  "There  are  three  principles  of  conduct  which  the  man  of  high 
ank  should  consider  specially  important : — that  in  his  deportment 
tad  manner  he  keep  from  violence  and  heedlessness;  that  in  regulat- 
nghis  countenance  he  keep  near  to  sincerity;  and  that  in  his  wordg 
ad  tones  he  keep  far  from  lowness  and  impropriety.  As  to  such 
natters  as  attending  to  the  sacrificial  vessels,  there  are  the  proper  offi- 
*rs  for  them." 


to  his  life-long  study.  He  made  the  disci, 
nearer  his  hands  and  feet  to  show  them  In 

hat  preservation  those  members  were,  ftfe  ^T , 

-seethe  She-king,  £L  Txai.  6.  In  ffij -4s  we 

""take  jjjj«fz|.  The  whole  clause  indi- 
•k*,  comm,  eay,  not  so  much  Tslng's  eatis- 
*ctioa  in  the  preserration  of  his  person,  as  the 
B^e^r  which  he  had  had,  and  would  continue 
>  bare,  if  life  were  prolonged,  in  preferring  it 

*•  THSrUXLOSOTHBE  TsAVO's  DTIJfO  COUNSELS 

» 4  iu«  or  hioh  rajik.    1.  |j£  was  the  hon. 

M  fjt  $fc  ^,  a  great  officer  of  Loo,  aud 
m  of  Ming-woo,  II.  6.  From  the  conclusion 
tthU  chapter,  we  may  suppose  that  he  de- 
**k&  to  small  matters  below  his  rank.     jj£ 


refers  to  ^.    9.  =|\  in  ^  ^  ^T  £J,  m. 

timates  that  Tslng  commenced  the  conversation. 
8.  fflfr,  jF,  and  pj  are  all  verbs  governing 
the  nouns  following,  ^g  is  read  like  iBf1,  and 
with  the  same  meaning,  'to  rebel  against,'  'to 
be  contrary  to,*  that  here  opposed  being  $£f 

'  the  truth  and  right*  3fc  was  a  bamboo  dish  with 

a  stand,  made  to  hold  fruits  and  seeds  at  sacrifice ; 

j5£  was  like  it,  and  of  the  same  size,  only  made 

of  wood,  and  used  to  contain  pickled  vegetables 

and  sauces.  S"  «¥•  is  used  as  in  ch,  2.— In 

Ho  An's  compilation,  the  three  clauses,  begin, 

ft?  1© ,  are  taken  differently,  and =4  thin  he 

will  not  suffer  from  men's  being  violent  and  in* 
suiting,  &c,  &c*    I  prefer  the  modern  view. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


H- 


COKFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


Wl*  #  ¥  fc  ^  # 


si,* 
est 


21  pt 

Amu 


*M&  dtt  -6*3 

Chapter  V.  The  philosopher  Ts&ng  said,  "  Gifted  with  ability, 
and  vet  putting  questions  to  those  who  were  not  so ;  possessed  of 
much,  and  yet  putting  questions  to  those  possessed  of  little ;  having, 
as  though  he  had  not;  full,  and  yet  counting  himself  as  empty; 
pffended  against,  and  yet  entering  into  no  altercation : — formerly  1 
had  a  friend  who  pursued  this  style  of  conduct." 

Chapter  VI.  The  philosopher  TsJtng  said,  "  Suppose  that  there 
is  an  individual  who  can  be  entrusted  with  the  charge  of  a  young 
orphan  prince,  and  can  be  commissioned  with  authority  over  a  state 
of  a  hundred  fe,  and  whom  no  emergency  however  great  can  drive 
trom  his  principles : — is  such  a  man  a  superior  man  ?  He  is  a  supe- 
rior man  indeed." 

Chapter  VII.  1.  The  philsopher  Tsing  said,  "The  scholar  may 
not  be  without  breadth  of  mind  and  vigorous  endurance.  His 
burden  is  heavy  and  his  course  is  long. 


5.  The  adxibable  simplicity  and  freedom 
fkom  egotism  of  a  fkibnd  of  the  philosopher 
Tsano.  This  friend  U  supposed  to  have  been 
Ten  Yuen,    rag,  'imprisonment  by  means  of 

wood/  *  stocks.'  The  Diet,  after  the  old  interpr., 
explains  it  with  reference  to  this  passage,  by 

*n  ili'  xft  to  'altercation,'  'recompensing.' 

$£^kV$  $f'  Ut' <foUowed  t*"11*8  m  thU 
way: 

6.  A  COMBINATION  OF  TALENTS  AND  VIRTUE 
CONSTITUTING  A  KEUN  T8ZB. 


•% 


RZ 


'  an  orphan  of  six  cubits.'  By  a  comparison  of 
a  passage  in  the  Chow  Le  aud  other  references 
to  the  subject,  it  seems  to  be  established  that 


*  of  six  cubits '  is  here  equivalent  to  •  of  15  rears,* 
and  that  for  every  cubit  more  or  less  we  should 
add  or  deduct  five  years.  8eethejjjg||:f:  j^pg^ 

where  it  is  also  said  that  the  ancient  cubit  was 
shorter  than  the  modern,  and  only =7.4  inn  so 
that  6  cubits=4.44  cubits  of  the  present  day. 
But  this  estimate  of  the  ancient  cubit  is  proba- 
bly still  too  high.  King  Wfin,  it  is  said,  was 
10  cubits  high,  •  i.  e^  7.4  modern  cubits  or  more 

than  8J  English  f eet  *Q"  ]|1   £  <fift,  see 

Men.  V.  ii.  2.  fil  amounts  nearly  to  a  question, 

and  is  answered  by  4jl, — 'Yes,  indeed/ 

7.    The  necessity  to  the  scholar  of  com- 
pass and  vigow  ojt  sum    jj;,  '  a  learned 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COOTUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


*» 


^  b,^j  b, *& 0, ^  ^ 


^  1 

W 
ft 


jfc* 

Who 


E> 


2.  "  Perfect  virtue  is  the  burden  which  he  considers  it  is  his  to 
sustain ; — is  it  not  heavy?  Only  with  death  does  his  course  stop ; — 
is  it  not  long?" 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "  It  is  by  the  Odes  that  th£ 
mind  is  aroused. 

2.  "  It  is  by  the  Rules  of  propriety  that  the  character  is 
established. 

3.  "  It  is  from  Music  that  the  finish  is  received." 

Chapter  IX.  The  Master  said,  "  The  people  may  be  made  to 
follow  a  path  of  action,  but  they  may  not  be  made  to  understand  it." 

Chapter  X.  The  Master  said,  "The  man  who  is  fond  of  daring 
and  is  dissatisfied  with  poverty,  will  proceed  to  insubordination. 
So  will  the  man  who  is  not  virtuous,  when  you  carry  your  dislike 
of  him  to  an  extreme." 

Choo  He,  the  first  £  is  jg  £  #f|f  $,- 

duty,  what  principles  require,  and  the  second  it 

*I  £  #f  #  #?» <the  f*"**  of  dut^ 

He  also  takes  pT  and  ~J&  "pT  as=  iSk  and 

^7*  ftti'  **  ***e  mcanin£  were  80»  tnen  tne 
sentiment  would  be  much  too  broadly  expressed. 

S^  |Z!J  ^  (Sfc  $B '  XVL  15'  A*  often  in 
other  places,  the  fi  lit  gives  the  meaning  here 
happily ;  viz.,  that  a  knowledge  of  the  reasons 
and  principles  of  what  they  are  called  to  do 
need  not  be  required  from  the  people, — yK  p] 


man,' '  a  scholar,'  but  in  all  ages  learning  has 
been  the  qualification  for,  and  passport  to, 
official  employment  in  China,  hence  it  is  also  a 

general  designation  for  'an  officer.'  "|±,  low. 

8d  tone,  a  noun,=*'an  office,*  'a  burden  borne ;' 
with  the  1st  tone,  it  is  the  verb  'to  bear.' 

8.  The  effects  of  poetry,  proprieties,  and 
music.    These  three  short  sentences  are  in  form 

like  the  four,  j&  ^  ^  &c,  in  VII.  6,  but 

must  be  interpreted  differently.  There  the  first 
term  in  each  sentence  is  a  verb  in  the  impera- 
tive mood ;  here  it  is  in  the  indicative.    There 

the  J&  is  to  be  joined  closely  to  the  1st  charac- 
ter and  here  to  the  3d.  There  it=our  prepoa.  to ; 
here  it=ty.  The  terms  ^i,  jjj||,  i££,  have 
all  specific  reference. 

9.  What  mat,  and  what  may  not  be  at- 
tained to  with  the  FBorut.    According   to 


10.    Different  causes  of  insubordination 

—A  LESSON  TO  KULIRS. 


Digitized  by  dOOglC 


76 


COKFUCIAK  AUALKCT8. 


% 


_B.#B$ 


96  iM 

4o96  st  n  _ 


>*> 


^ 


2, 


Chapter  XI.  The  Master  said,  "  Though  a  man  have  abilities  as 
admirable  as  those  of  the  duke  of  Chow,  yet  if  he  be  proud  and 
niggardly,  those  other  things  are  really  not  worth  being  looked  at.* 

Chapter  XII.  The  Master  said,  "  It  is  not  easy  to  find  a  man 
who  has  learned  for  three  years  without  coming  to  be  good." 

Chapter  XIII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "With  sincere  faith  he 
unites  the  love  of  learning ;  holding  firm  to  death,  he  is  perfecting 
the  excellence  of  his  course. 

2.  "  Such  an  one  will  not  enter  a  tottering  state,  nor  dwell  in  a 
disorganized  one.  When  right  principles  of  government  prevail  in 
the  empire,  he  will  show  himself;  when  they  are  prostrated,  he  will 
keep  concealed 

3.  "  When  a  country  is  well  governed,  poverty  and  a  mean  con- 
dition are  things  to  be  ashamed  of.  When  a  country  is  ill  governed, 
riches  and  honour  are  things  to  be  ashamed  of." 

11.  THB  WORTHLKSBrfBSS  OF  TALENT  WITH- 
OUT virtue.    'The  duke  of  Chow ;' — see  VII. 

5.  Z££  &»  'the  overplus,'  'the  superfluity/ 
referring  to  the  'talents,'  and  indicating  that 
ability  is  not  the  2K»  or  root  of  character,  not 

what  is  essential.  40.  f^,  as  in  ch.  1. 

12.  HOW  QUICKLT  LEARXIMO  LRADS  TO  GOOD. 

This  is  the  interpretation  of  K*ung  Gan-kw8, 
who  takes  jSJ  in  the  sense  of  Sj.    Ohoo  He 

takes  the  term  in  the  sense  of  jra,  *  emolu- 
ment,* and  would  change  ^g  into  jfe,  making 


the  whole  a  lamentation  over  the  rarity  of  (he 
disinterested  pursuit  of  learning.  But  we  art 
not  at  liberty  to  admit  alterations  of  the  test, 
unless,  as  received,  it  be  absolutely  unintelli- 
gible. 
18.     Thb  qualifications  or  a*  omen, 

WHO  WILL  ALWATS  ACT  KtOHT  IK  ACCEPT!** 
AND    DECLINING  OFFICE.       1.    This  pUT.  is  to  *• 

taken  as  descriptive  of  character,  the  effect*  ef 
whose  presence  we  have  in  the  next,  and  of  Its' 

absence  in  the  last.  2.  B  in  oppos.  to  ft, 
read  km*,  low.  3d  tone.  The  whole  ch.  seen* 
to  want  the  warmth  of  generous  principle  aol 
feeling.  In  fact,  I  doubt  whether  its  parts  hear 
the  relation  and  connection  which  they  are  sssj- 
posed  to  have.  .     . 


t 
4 

I 
£ 

1 


■V 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


OONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


77 


Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  "  He  who  is  not  in  any  parti- 
liar  office,  has  nothing  to  do  with  plans  for  the  administration  of 
s  duties." 

Chapter  XV.  The  Master  said,  "When  the  music-master,  Che, 
rst  entered  on  his  office,  the  finish  with  the  Kwan  Ts'eu  was  mag- 
ificent ; — how  it  filled  the  ears !" 

Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "Ardent  and  yet  not  upright ; 
npid  and  yet  not  attentive ;  simple  and  yet  not  sincere : — such 
ereons  I  do  not  understand." 

Chapter  XVII.  The  Master  said,  "  Learn  as  if  you  could  not 
sach  your  object,  and  were  always  fearing  also  lest  you  should  lose  it." 

Chapter  aVIII.  The  Master  said,  "  How  majestic  was  the  man- 
er.  in  which  Shun  and  Yu  held  possession  of  the  empire,  as  if  it 
ere  nothing  to  them  1 " 

16.       A   LAMENTATION    OVER   MORAL    ERROR 


14.  Every  ma*  should  mind  BIB  OWV  BUSI- 
m.  So  the  sentiment  of  this  ch.  is  gener- 
fod  by  the  paraphrasts,  and  perhaps  cor- 
ctly.  Its  letter,  however,  has  doubtless  oper- 
ed  to  prevent  the  spread  of  right  notions  about 
rtitical  liberty  in  China. 

1*.    THl  PRAISE  OF  THE  MUSIC-MASTER  CHE. 

either  Morrison  nor  Medhorst  gives  what  ap- 
art to  be  the  meaning  of  ffl    in  this  ch. 

•mg-he's  diet,  has  it-|g  ;£  Zfc  j£  0 

L*The  last  part  in  the  musical  services  is 
faao.'  The  programme  on  those  occa- 
oos  consisted  of  four  parts,  in  the  last  of  which 
number  of  pieces  from  the  funq  or  national 
«gswas  sung,  commencing  with  the  Kwan- 
*«.  The  name  Iwan  was  also  given  to  a  sort 
frrfrsin,  at  the  end  of  each  song. — The  old 
""peters  explain  differently,  —  '  when  the 
jwie-«aster  Che  first  corrected  the  confusion 
flbeKwsji-U'cu.'Ac. 


ADDED  TO  NATURAL  DEFECT. 

(I  do  not  know  them,'  that  is,  say  comnL,  na- 
tural defects  of  endowment  are  generally  asso- 
ciated with  certain  redeeming  qualities,  as  has- 
tiness with  straightforwardness,  &c.  In  the 
parties  Conf.  had  in  view,  those  redeeming  qua- 
lities were  absent.  He  did  not  understand 
them,  and  could  do  nothing  for  them. 

17.  With  what  earnestness  and  contw- 
uou&esss  learning  should  be  pursued. 

18.  The  lofty  charaotfr  of  Shun  and 
Tu.  Shun  received  the  empire  from  Yaou,  B.  C. 
2254,  and  Yu  received  it  from  Shun,  B.  C.  2204. 
The  throne  came  to  them  not  by  inheritance. 
They  were  called  to  it  by  their  talents  and 
virtue.    And  yet  the  possession  of  empire  did 

not  affect  them  at  all.   yp  JK>— 'It  did  not 

OQjioerolhemi' was  as  if  nothing  to  them.   Ho 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


7% 


COKFUCLUt  AMALECT8. 


*Ajf& 


...;*rAJt£¥.35£ 


Chapteb  XIX.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Great  indeed  was  Yaou 
a  sovereign !  How  majestic  was  he  1  It  is  only  Heaven  that  is  grai 
and  only  Yaou  corresponded  to  it  How  vast  was  his  virtue!  J 
people  could  find  no  name  for  it. 

2.  "  How  majestic  was  he  in  the  works  which  he  accomplish 
How  glorious  in  the  elegant  regulations  which  he  instituted  \n 

Chapter  XX.  1.  Shun  had  five  ministers,  and  the  empire  i 
well  governed. 

2.  King  Woo  said,  "  I  have  ten  able  ministers." 

3.  Confucius  said,  "  Is  not  the  saying  that  talents  are  diffic 
to  find,  true?  Only  when  the  dynasties  of  T'ang  and  Yu  met,  w< 
they  more  abundant  than  in  this  of  Chow,  yet  there  was  a  won 
among  them.     The  able  ministers  were  no  more  than  nine  men." 

An  takes  ftf—yfr— '  They  had  the  empire    ministers  were  IS,  superintendent  of 

without  seeking  for  it.'  This  is  not  according 
to  usage. 

19.  Thb  fbaibb  or  Yao*.  1.  No  doubt, 
Yaou,  as  he  appears  in  Chinese  annals,  is  a  fit 
object  of  admiration,  but  if  Confucius  had  had 
a  right  knowledge  of,  and  reverence  for,  Hea- 
ven, he  could  not  have  spoken  as  he  does  here. 
Grant  that  it  is  only  the  visible  heaven  over- 
spreading all,  to  which  he  compares  Yaou,  even 

that  is  sufficiently  absurd.  H|l  ^,  not  sim- 
P^ife  £'  'imitated  it,'  but  gg  g|  £ 
jp,  'could  equalize  with  it.'    2.  3£  ^|  JjJ£ 

#-£  0f  ^  Z  $  #>  **  •»- 

achievements  of  his  goverment.    ~aT  ^T  (see 

V.  12Wthe  music,  ceremonies,  Ac.,  of  which  he 
was  the  author. 


jf&,  superintendent  of  agriculture,  =fcfli  (s9 
minirter  of  iiutnictioa,  J^  tyf,  «uri*s  , 
justice,  and  -f  ft  Jt,  warden  of  woods  and  mm 
she*.  Those  five,  as  being  eminent  above. i 
their  compeers,  are  mentioned.  2.  See  the  Sao 
king,  V.L  sect.  U.  6.  g[  gf,  'govern* 
I  e^  able  ministers.'  In  the  diet,  Ike  fit 
meaning  given  of  ffl  is  *to  regulate,'  and  i 

second  is  just  the  opposite, — 'to  cc 
4  confusion.'  Of  the  ten  ministers,  the  i 
tinguished  of  course  was  the  duke  of  Cho 
One  of  them,  it  is  said  next  par.,  was  a  wwm 
but  whether  she  was  the  mother  of  king  Wi 
or  his  wife,  is  much  disputed.  8.  Instead 
the  usual  '  the  master  said,'  we  have  here  «j 
20.    The  rcabcitt  of  mew  or  talent,  and      •»  »_•   t  _.       ...        .       _,  . ,  ,    _- 

frame  of  the  uousa  ow  Cuow.    I.  Shun's five  i  -JT  fcj>   T1*  philosopher  K'ung  said.     T 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


COKFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


79 


4.  "King  Wan  possessed  two  of  the  three  parts  of  the  empire,  and 
with  those  he  served  the  dynasty  of  Yin.  The  virtue  of  the  house 
of  Chow  may  be  said  to  have  reached  the  highest  point  indeed." 
j  Chapter  XXI.  The  Master  said,  "  I  can  find  no  flaw  in  the 
character  of  Yu.  He  used  himself  coarse  food  and  drink,  but  dis- 
played the  utmost  filial  piety  towards  the  spirits.  His  ordinary 
garments  were  poor,  but  he  displayed  the  utmost  elegance  in  his 
sacrificial  cap  and  apron.  He  lived  in  a  low  mean  house,  but  ex- 
pended all  his  strength  on  the  ditches  and  water-channels.  I  can  find 
nothing  like  a  flaw  m  Yu." 


k  accounted  for  on  the  ground  that  the  words  of 
kmg  Woo  haying  been  quoted  immediately  be- 
ftre,  it  would  not  hare  done  to  crown  the  sage 
with  his  usual  title  of '  the  M aster:  The  style 
1  of  the  whole  chapter,  however,  is  different  from 
that  of  any  previous  one,  and  we  may  suspect 

that  it  is  corrupted.  /T  l&jt  is  a  sort  of  pro- 
verb, or  common  saying,  which  Conf.  quotes 
and  illustrate*  0J^^(^,  (Yaou  is  called 
T*ang,  having  ascended  the  throne  from  the 
narquisate  of  that  name,  and  Yu  became  the 

accepted  surname  or  style  of  Shun.)    *t^  ft? 

^  jBJ  is  understood  by  Choo  He  as  in  the 
traneL,  while  the  old  coram,  take  exactly  the 
opposite  view.  The  whole  is  obscure.  4.  This 
par.  must  be  spoken  of  King  Wftn. 

2L  Tub  pbaisb  of  Yu.  ffl ,  read  JT&n,  up. 
3d  tone,  «a  crevice,'  'a  crack/  Hf^R) 
£$^|»  'I*  Yu,  I  find  no  crevice  so/  u  e.,  I  find 


nothing  in  him  to  which  I  can  point  as  a  flaw. 
9$*  Jffy  is  interpreted  of  the  spirits  of  heaven 
and  earth,  aa  weU  as  those  sacrificed  to  in  the 
ancestral  temple,  but  the  saying  that  the  rich 
offerings  were  filial  ( j££)  would  seem  to  restrict 
the  phrase  to  the  latter.  The  j&tf  was  an  apron 
made  of  leather,  and  coming  down  over  the 
knees,  and  the  -§8  ▼*•  a  8ort  of  cap  or  crown, 
flat  on  the  top,  and  projecting  before  and  be- 
hind, with  a  long  fringe  on  which  gems  and 
pearls  were  strung.    They  were  both  used  in 

sacrificing.  jS  ffi,  generally  the  water-chan- 
nels by  which  the  boundaries  of  the  fields  were 
determined,  and  provision  made  for  their  irriga- 
tion, and  to  carry  off  the  water  of  floods.  The 
j$t  were  4  cubits  wide  and  deep,  and  arranged 

so  as  to  flow  into  the  jflfll,  which  were  double 
the  size. 


Digitized  by  VjDOQIC 


80 


CONFUCnS 


BOOK  IX  TSZE  HAN. 


£Q 


#|i  #|J  j&  $  ft  1*  f=0  T  ^ 
^  fa  £,  W  0, 

—    -*-'      =g    ^jm     _L 

*  m    tHt    !7v 


Chapter  I.  The  subjects  of  which  the  Master  seldom  spoke 
were — profitableness,  and  also  the  appointments  of  Heaven,  and  per- 
fect virtue. 

Chapter  II.  1.  A  man  of  the  village  of  TK-heang  said,  "  Great 
indeed  is  the  philosopher  K'ung !  His  learning  is  extensive,  and 
yet  he  does  not  render  his  name  famous  by  any  particular  thing." 

2.  The  Master  heard  the  observation,  and  said  to  his  disciples. 
"What  shall  I  practise?  Shall  I  practise  charioteering,  or  shall  I 
practise  archery?    I  will  practise  charioteering." 

Headiwo  or  this  Book.  —  T*  &L  4£  fa. 

•The  Master  seldom,  No.  9.'  The  thirty  chap- 
ters of  this  Book  are  much  akin  to  those  of  the 
seventh.  They  are  mostly  occupied  with  the 
doctrine,  character,  and  ways  of  Confucius  him- 
self. 

1.       SOBJBOTS    SELDOM    BPOKBTf    OF    BT    CON- 

yucius.    5ft)  is  mostly  taken  here  in  a  good 


sense,  not  as  selfish  gain,  but  as  it  is  defined 
under  the  first  of  the  diagrams  in  the  Yih- 

king, — H  ^  jffl* <tne  harmoniousness  of  all 
that  is  righteous;'  that  is,  how  what  is  right  is 
really  what  is  truly  profitable.  Comp.  Mencius, 
I.  i.  1.  Tet  even  in  this  sense  Conf.  seldom 
spoke  of  it,  as  he  would  not  have  the  consid- 
eration of  the  profitable  introduced  into  con- 
duct at  ail.  With  his  not  speaking  of  £^  there 
is  a  difficulty  which  I  know  not  how  to  solve. 
The  IV th  book  is  nearly  all  occupied  with  it, 
and  no  doubt  it  was  a  prominent  topic  in  Conf. 

teachings,  'ffe  is  not=our  fate,  unless  in  the 
primary  meaning  of  that  term,— '/'atom  est 


quod  an  fantur.'    Nor  is  it  decree,  or  antecedent 
purpose  and  determination,  but  the  decree  < 
bodied  and  realised  in  its  object. 
2.  Amusement  or  Confucius  at  tbs  i 

OF  AH  IOMORANT  MAM   ABOUT  HIM.      ComnU   oW 

and  new,  say  that  the  ch.  shows  the  exceeding 
humility  of  the  sage,  educed  by  his  being  prais- 
ed, but  his  observation  on  the  man's  remark 
was  evidently  ironical.  1.  For  want  of  another 
word,  I  render  JjSf  <by  village.'  According  to 
the  statutes  of  Chow, '  five  families  made  a  J4j. 

four  pe  a  ffl,  and  five  leu  or  500  families  a 

tang.*  Who  the  villager  was  is  not  recorded, 
though  some  would  have  him  to  be  the  same 

with  jH  JB.  the  boy  of  whom  it  is  said  in  the 

=  **##*«**•- 

old  Confucius  was  a  scholar  to  Heang  'Td.*  The 
man  was  able  to  see  that  Confucius  was  very 
extensively  learned,  but  his  idea  of  fame,  com- 
mon to  the  age,  was  that  it  must  be  acquired  by 
excellence  in  some  one  particular  art.  In  his  lips, 

^  -^  was  not  more  than  our  '  Mr.  ICung.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


81 


?xt\ 


ft  £  gE  IS  #  IS  51  il  &  9 

4  ft  ^«3E 

Chapter  IIL  1.  The  Master  said,  "The  linen  cap  is  that  pre- 
scribed by  the  rules  of  ceremony,  but  now  a  silk  one  is  worn.  It  is 
economical,  and  I  follow  the  common  practice, 

2.  "The  rules  of  ceremony  prescribe  the  bowing  below  the  hall, 
but  now  the  practice  is  to  bow  only  after  ascending  it  That  is  arro- 
gant. I  continue  to  bow  below  the  hall,  though  I  oppose  the  com- 
mon practice," 

Chapter  IV,  There  were  four  things  from  which  the  Master 
was  entirely  free.  He  had  no  foregone  conclusions,  no  arbitrary 
predeterminations,  no  obstinacy,  ana  no  egoism. 

Chapter  V,  L    The  Master  was  put  in  fear  in  K'wang, 

2.    He  said,  u  After  the  death  oi  king  Win,  was  not  the  cause 


Mi  T\,_L  $*„  Jill 


of  truth  lodged  here  in  me? 

Z,    6oM*  COMMON  PRACTICES  INDIFFERENT  AMD 

trans  not;  1.  The  cap  here  spoken  of  was 
that  prescribed  to  be  worn  in  the  ancestral 
temple,  and  made  of  very  fine  linen  dyed  of  a 
deep  dark  colour.  There  are  long  discussions 
•hoot  the  smmber  of  threads  that  went  into  its 
varp.  It  had  fallen  into  disuse,  and  was  super- 
seded by  a  simpler  one  of  silk.  Rather  than  he 
singular,  Confbciu*  gave  in  to  a  practice,  which 
(Bvolved  bo  principle  of  right,  and  was  eco- 
nomical.   2.  Choo  He  explains  the  ^"JC,^ 

4£  J%  thus;   *  In  the  ceremonial  intercourse 

■etween  ministers  and  their  prince,  it  was  pro- 
per for  them  to  bow  below  the  raised  hall. 
This  the  ptteee  declined,  on  which  they  ascend- 
ed and  eoaasdeted  the  homage*'     See  this  illus- 

teersJKog  disregard  of  the  first  part  of  the  cer. 
Cent  considered  inconsistent  with  the  proper 
dlitaaeo  to  be  observed  between  prince  and 
minister,  and  therefore  he  would  be  singular  in 
adhering  to  the  rule, 
4.    Frailties  fbom  which  Confucius  was 

nun.   -BE.  it  is  said,  is  not  prohibitive  here, 


but  simply  negative,.* $ffi.  This  criticism  is 
made  to  make  it  appear  that  it  was  not  by  any 
effort,  as  jm  and  ffl;  more  naturally  suggest, 
that  Confucius  attained  to  these  things* 

5,      CONFUCIUS  ASSURED  IE  A  TIME  OF  PANO** 
BY  HIS  CONV1CTIOV  OF  A  DIVJNE  MI88JON.  Como, 

VJX  22«  but  the  adventure  to  which  this  en. 
refers  is  placed  in  the  sage's  history  before  the 
other,  and  seems  to  have  occurred  in  his  57th 
year,  not  long  after  he  had  resigned  office,  and 
left  Loo,  1.  There  are  different  opinions  as  to 
what  state  K*wang  belonged  to.  The  most 
likely  is  that  it  was  a  border  town  of  Chtng, 
and  its  site  is  now  to  be  found  in  the  dep,  of 
K'ae-fung  in  Hornan,     The  account  is  that 

K'wang  had  suffered  from  |w  jB?t  *ft  officer  of 
Loo,  to  whom  Cent  bore  a  resemblance.  As  he 
passed  by  the  place  moreover,  a  disciple,  g£f  ^)j» 
who  had  been  associated  with  Tang  Foo  in  his 
operations  against  K*wang,  was  driving  him. 
These  circum.  made  the  people  think  that  Conf, 
was  their  old  enemy,  so  they  attacked  him,  and 
kept  him  prisoner  for  five  days.  The  accounts 
of  his  escape  vary,  some  of  them  being  c 


Digitized 


ft@&8§I< 


82 


COBTUCIAS  A9A1ECT8. 


W  *  ft  BJK 16  B. 

3.  "  If  Heaven  had  wished  to  let  this  cause  of  truth  perish,  then 
I,  a  future  mortal,  should  not  have  got  such  a  relation  to  that  cause. 
While  Heaven  does  not  let  the  cause  of  truth  perish,  what  can  the 
people  of  K'wang  do  to  me? n 

Chapter  VI.  1.  A  high  officer  asked  Tsze-kung  saying,  "May 
we  not  say  that  your  Master  is  a  sage?   How  various  is  his  ability  P 

2.  Tsze  Kung  said,  "  Certainly  Heaven  has  endowed  him  un- 
limitedly.  He  is  about  a  sage.  And,  moreover,  his  ability  is 
various. 

3.  The  Master  heard  of  the  conversation  and  said,  "  Does  the 
high  officer  know  me?  When  I  was  young,  my  condition  was  low, 
and  therefore  I  acquired  my  ability  in  many  things,  but  they  were 
mean  matters.  Must  the  superior  man  have  such  variety  of  ability? 
He  does  not  need  variety  of  ability." 

4.  Laou  said,  "  The  Master  said,  i  Having  no  official  employment, 
I  acquired  many  arts.' " 

fabulous.  The  disciples  were  in  fear.  ^  would 
indicate  that  Confucius  himself  was  so,  but 
this  is  denied.  2.  ^J£, — I  render  by  *  the  cause  of 

truth.'  More  exactly,  it  is  the  truth  embodied 
in  literature,  ceremonies,  Ac,  and  its  use  in- 
stead of  j||\  « truth  in  its  principles/  is  attri- 
buted to  Conf.  modesty.  ^E  j££,  'in  this,'  ref. 
to  himself.  8.  There  may  be  modesty  in  his  use 
of  y^y  but  he  here  identifies  himself  with  the 

line  of  the  great  sages,  to  whom  Heaven  has  in- 
trusted the  instruction  of  men.  In  all  the  six 
centuries  between  himself  and  king  Wan,  he 

does  not  admit  of  such  another.  J&  ^£  zttr, 
'he  who  dies  afterwards,' ■«  future  mortal. 


|        6.      Off  m  TAEMKJS  ABUJTT  Of  CuffrCUllS:— 
,   HIS  SAOIHOOD    HOT   TBKRXIK.      1.   According  ft) 

! tho  JEHUS* tbe  ^C  ^  waf  **  dlW  *  ** 

I  six  great  otBcers  of  state,  but  the  use  of  the  de- 
signation in  Conf.  times  was  confined  to  the  states 
of  Woo  and  Sung,  and  hence  the  officer  in  the 
text  must  hare  belonged  to  one  of  them.    Set 

the  §£2^r  «  &>*•  The  force  of  fil  is  as  ap- 
pears in  the  transl.  2.  S3,  is  responded  to  by 
Tsze-kung  with  [3] ,  'certainly,' wmle  yet  bytbo 
use  of  o&  he  gires  his  answer  an  air  of  hesi- 
tancy. £ft  >*,  'lets  him  go,'  t.  e^  does  notrs- 
strict  him  at  4L  The  officer  had  found  the 
sagehood  of  Conf.  in  his  various  ability  ;-^bjr 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


8* 


4> 


ItJIfiS 

0>  W  £  &.  0, 

^  ^n  ^f  ^ 
*P  $¥ 

indeed  possessed  of 


E 

£~*\  >T-r    5^v0  jti.1 

Chapter  VII.     The  Master  said,  "Am  I 
knowledge?     I  am  not  knowing.     But  if  a  mean  person,  who  ap 
pears  quite  empty-like,  ask  anything  of  me,  I  set  it  forth  from  one 
end  to  the  other,  and  exhaust  it* 

Chapter  VIII.  The  Master  said,  "The  fung  bird  does  not  come; 
the  river  sends  forth  no  map : — it  is  all  over  with  me." 

Chapter  IX.  When  the  Master  saw  a  person  in  a  mourninfr 
dress,  or  any  one  with  the  cap  and  upper  and  lower  garments  of  full 
dress,  or  a  blind  person,  on  observing  them  approaching,  though  they 
were  younger  than  himself,  he  would  rise  up,  and  if  he  had  to  pass 
by  them,  he  would  do  so  hastily. 


the  ^,  'moreover,'  Tsse-kung  makes  that 
ability  only  an  addit.  circum.  8.  Conf.  explains 
h»  poiscss.  of  various  ability,  and  repudiates 
its  being  essen.  to  the  sage,  or  even  to  the  Ktun- 
i'k.    4.  Laou  was  a  disciple,  by  surname  K'in 

(^jS),  and  styled  Tsxe-k'ae  ( ^  gg  ),  or  Tsze- 

chtng  (•¥•  BM).    It  is  supposed  that  when 

these  conversations  were  being  digested  into 
their  present  form,  some  one  remembered  that 
laou  had  been  in  the  habit  of  mentioning  the 
remark  given,  and  accordingly  it  was  appended 

to  the  chapter.  -7*  -y-»  indicates  that  it  was  a 

frequent  saying  of  Confucius. 

7.  Confucius  disclvims  thb  knowledge 
attributed  to  him,  and  declares  his  ear- 
sistsess  iii  tkachixo.  The  first  sentence  here 
*as  probably  an  exclamation  with  reference  to 
some  remark  upon  himself  as  having  extraor- 
dinary knowledge.    |J|J  3£  ppj  flgjj,  «exhi- 

tot(flJJ  =  U  ^f|,  «to  agitate,')  its  two  ends,' 

*■  «t  discuss  it  from  beginning  to  end. 

8.  For  wait  of  auspicious  omens,  CONFU- 
CICg  OtVBS    UP  THB   HOPE  OP  TUB   TRIUMPH   OP 

bis  doctrines.  The  fung  is  the  male  of  a  fa- 
tats*  bird,  whieh  has  been  called  the  Chinese 


PI 

how  .^6 


phoenix,  said  to  appear  when  a  sage  ascends  the 
throne  or  when  nght  principles  are  going  to 
triumph  thro'  the  empire.  The  female  is  call- 
ed IM.  In  the  days  of  Shun,  they  gambolled 
in  his  hall,  and  were  heard  singing  on  mount 
K4e,  in  the  time  of  king  Wan.  The  river  and 
the  map  carry  us  farther  back  still, — to  the 
time  of  Fuh-he,  to  whom  a  monster  with  the 
head  of  a  dragon,  and  the  body  of  a  horse,  rose 
from  the  water,  being  marked  on  the  back  so  as 
to  give  that  first  of  the  sages  the  idea  of  his 

diagrams.    Conf.  indorses  these  fables. 

2|  ^  ^C»~ see  v-  2(*>  and  obi- 
and  =fc  are  interchanged. 

9.    Confucius'  sympathy  with  sorrow,  re- 
8pbct  for  rank,  and  pity  for  mi8fortunb. 

5jK,  read  tore,  is  'the  lower  edge  of  a  garment' 

and  joined  with  3gK  read  fs*igr, '  mourning  gar- 
ments,' the  two  char,  indicate  the  mourning  of 
the  second  degree  of  intensity,  where  the  edge  is 
unhemmed,  but  cut  even,  instead  of  being  rag- 
ged, the  terms  for  which  are  Wfr  JBh  The 
phrase,  however,  seems  to  be  for  'in  mourning' 
generally.    Aft  up.  3d  tone,  'young/ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


84 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


fir  E.:T«lt^.  »#*«.. 

**"  ^^  £,#n  H^  ii  ^  M 

....  b.T  ft  W  H  H  &B  ft 


Chapt«ii  X.  1.  Yen  Yuen,  in  admiration  of  the  Masters  doctrines, 
sighed  and  said,  u  I  looked  up  to  thetn,  and  they  seemed  to  become 
more  high ;  I  tried  to  penetrate  them,  and  they  seemed  to  become 
more  firm ;  I  looked  at  them  before  me,  and  suddenly  they  seemed  to 
be  behind. 

2.  "The  Master,  by  orderly  method,  skilfully  leads  men  on.  He 
enlarged  my  mind  witn  learning,  and  taught  me  the  restraints  of 
propriety. 

3.  "When  I  wish  to  give  over  the  study  of  his  doctrines^  I  cannot 
do  so,  and  having  exerted  all  my  ability,  there  seems  something  to 
stand  right  up  before  me;  but  though  I  wish  to  follow  and  lay  hold 
of  it,  I  really  find  no  way  to  do  so. 

Chapteh  XL  1.  The  Master  being  very  ill,  Tsze-loo  wished  tic 
disciples  to  act  as  ministers  to  him. 

2.  During  a  remission  of  his  illness,  he  said,  "  Long  has  the  con* 
duct  of  Yew  oeen  deceitful !  By  pretending  to  have  ministers  when 
I  have  them  not,  whom  should"  I  impose  upon?  Should  I  impose 
upon  Heaven  ? 

10.  ?BN  YuBft'S  ADXTBATtON  OF  HIS  MABTttt'S 
DOCTBtNBS,    AND    HIS    OWN    PKOGfcFSB  lK  THEM. 

1.  ftjf  #J  Hfc  'sighingly  sighed/  $J  and 
the  other  Verbs  here  are  to  be  translated  in  the 
past  tense,  as  the  ck.  seems  to  give  an  account 

of  the  progress  of  Hwuy's  mind.  jQL  jj|«j^ 
^, « suddenly.'  2.  §^=  Jj  |  j||,  'to  lead  for- 
**rd.'  f$|^5:^-Hx>mp.  VI.25.  8.  J^ 

2#£  ^, c  to  follow  it/  i.  e^  to  advance  there- 
upon  to  if    pit,  in  the  sense  of  lltt.  Tfiffrf 


the  means  whereby  to  use  my  strength.'  *(g 

£*,,  'yea,  indeed/— It  was  this  which  mto 
him  sigh. 
1 1.   Confucius'  dislike  o9  ntaTiNsioK,  aid 

CONTENTMENT    WITH    HlS    CONDITIO*.       1.    fjf» 

4 was  causing/  or  wanted  to  cause.  Goaf.*** 
been  a  great  officer,  and  enjoyed  the  serrke*  ^ 
ministers,  as  in  a  petty  court.  Tste-loo  wooW 
hate  surrounded  him  in  his  great  sickness  (it 
3S*),  With  the  illusions  of  his  former  state,  sad 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALfiCtS. 


85 


8.h.#  mutagen 


3.  "Moreover,  than  that  I  should  die  in  the  hands  of  ministers, 
U  it  not  better  that  I  should  die  in  the  hands  of  you,  my  disciples? 
And  though  I  may  not  get  a  great  burial,  shall  I  die  upon  the  road?" 

Chapter  XIL  Tsze-kung  said,  "There  is  a  beautiful  gem  here. 
Should  I  lay  it  up  in  a  case  and  keep  it?  or  should  I  seek  for  a 
good  price  and  sell  it  ?  "  The  Master  said,  "  Sell  it !  Sell  it !  But  I 
would  wait  till  the  price  was  offered," 

Chapter  XIIL  L  The  Master  was  wishing  to  go  and  live 
among  the  nine  wild  tribes  of  the  east 

2.  Some  one  said,  "They  are  rude.  How  can  you  do  such  a 
thing ?"  The  Master  said,  "If  a  superior  man  dwelt  among  them, 
what  rudeness  would  there  be?" 

Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  "I  returned  from  Wei  to  Loo, 
*nd  then  the  music  was  reformed,  and  the  pieces  in  the  Imperial 
songs  and  Praise  songs  found  all  their  proper  place." 


foftght  on  himself  this  rebuke.    3.  ^^j^Jt 

$C,  a  conjunction,  'letting  it  be  that/=«=al- 
thotgh. 

H     HOW  THE    DESIRE   FOE  OFFICE   SHOULD 
'K  QCAUFtfcD  BT  8ELP-RESFECT.    ffi  10  UtteiTOg. 

tae,  as  in  VII.  25.  There  being  no  nominative 
to$jt  like  the  «F  in  the  transL,  we  might 

**<*<*,  'shonld  it  be  put,  &c.'  W,  read  kea, 
*P.  3d  tone,^=(@,  'price,* '  value/  The  disciple 
vaated  to  elicit  from  Conf.  why  fee  declined  office 


so  much,  and  insinuated  the  subject  in  this  way. 

18.      HOW    BARBARIANS    CAN     BB     CIVILIZED. 

This  ch,  is  to  be  understood,  it  is  said  like  V. 
6,  not  as  if  Conf.  really  wished  to  go  among  the 
E,  but  that  he  thus  expressed  his  regret  that 
his  doctor,  did  not  find  accept,  in  China.  1.  f^J, 
see  IIL  6»  There  were  nine  tribes  or  varieties 
(3g)  of  them,  the  yellow,  white,  red,  Ac    2. 

]ftn  £  i^T» — ^*e  >w  re*ew  *°  *"•  p^rp08©  to 

go  among  the  E. 

14.    Confucius'  services  in  correcting  th> 
nnsio  of  his  native  state  and  adjusting  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


86 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS; 


£ 


iH  ^i 


# 


» 


Chaptbr  XV.  The  Master  said,  "  Abroad,  to  serve  the  high  minis- 
ters and  officers;  at  home,  to  serve  one's  father  and  elder  brother; 
in  all  duties  to  the  dead,  not  to  dare  not  to  exert  ones-self;  and  not 
to  be  overcome  of  wine: — what  one  of  these  things  do  I  attain  to?" 

Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  standing  by  a  stream,  said,  "It  paases 
on  just  like  this,  not  ceasing  day  or  night!" 

(Jhapter  XVII.  The  Master  said,  u  I  have  not  seen  one  who 
loves  virtue  as  he  loves  beauty." 

Chapter  XVIII.  The  Master  said,  "  The  prosecution  of  learning 
may  be  compared  to  what  may  happen  in  raising  a  mound.  If 
there  want  but  one  basket  of  earth  to  complete  the  work,  and  I  stop, 


Book  of  Poetry.  Conf.  returned  from  Wei  to 
Loo  in  bis  69th  year,  and  died  6  years  after. 

The  JfJ||,  (read  nga,  low.  2d  tone),  and  the  $S, 

are  the  names  of  two,  or  rather  three,  of  the  divi- 
sions of  the  She-king,  the  former  being  the 
'elegant'  or  *  correct'  odes,  to  be  used  with 
music  at  imperial  festivals,  and  the  praise-songs, 
celebrating  principally  the  virtues  of  the  foun- 
ders of  different  dynasties,  to  be  used  in  the 
services  of  the  ancestral  temple. 

15.      CONFUCIOB'  VERY  HUMBLE   B8TIMATB   OF 

himself.  Comp.  VII.  2,  but  the  things  which 
Confucius  here  disclaims  are  of  a  still  lower 
char,  than  those  there  mentioned.  Very  re- 
markable is  the  last,  as  from  the  sage.    The 

old  interpr.  treat  jef  ^  $%  |§  ]gg,  as  they 
do  in  VII.  12.  /V  ifej  stand  together,  indicat. 
men  of  superior  rank?  If  we  disting.  between 
them,  the  ^L,  may  express  the  princes,  high 

officers  in  the  imperial  court,  and  the  fflj,  the 
high  officers  in  the  princes'  courts. 


16.      HOW    COKFVCIUS   WAS   AFFECTED    BY   A 

busking  8TBEAM.  What  does  the  it  in  the 
transl.  refer  to?  5&  and  ^fJJ  indicate  some- 
thing in  the  sage's  mind,  suggested  by  the 
ceaseless  move,  of  the  water.    Choo  He  make* 

it  ^  j/fa  ^  ^,=our  'course  of  nature.* 

In  the  §j£*fj^  we  find  for  it  |^jp^t»  'event*/ 
'the  things  of  time.*  Probably  Choo  He  is  cor- 
rect. Comp.  Mencius,  IV.  ii.  18. 

17.  The  babity  of  a  sihcbrs  love  of  y»- 
tcb.    TO,  as  in  I.  7. 

18.  That  learners  should  not  cease  hob; 
iktbrmit  their  LABOURS.  This  is  a  fragment, 
like  many  other  chapters,  of  some  conversation, 
and  the  subject  thus  illustrated  must  be  sup- 
plied, after  the  mod.  comm.,  as  in  the  transla- 
tion, or,  after  the  old,  by  *  the  following  of  vir- 
tue.' See  the  Shoo-king,  Y.  v.  9,  where  the> 
subject  is  virtuous  consistency.     We  mjgfel. 

expect  ^  in  2f  j^,  to  be  •  rerb,  like  JJ 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


87 


\*u\ 


-^   |I§  ;z&  P9  >f£  S1   dt 

£  hi  i*  ir  *  it  a, 


HP 

7i4c 


the  stopping  is  my  own  work.  It  may  be  compared  to  throwing 
down  the  earth  on  the  level  ground.  Though  but  one  basketful  is 
thrown  at  a  time,  the  advancing  with  it  is  my  own  going  forward." 

Chapter  XIX.  The  Master  said,  "  Never  flagging  when  I  set 
forth  anything  to  him; — ah !  that  is  Hwuy." 

Chapter  aX.  The  Master  said  of  Yen  Yuen,  "Alas!  I  saw  his 
constant  advance.     I  never  saw  him  stop  in  his  progress." 

Chapter  XXI.  The  Master  said,  "  There  are  cases  in  which  the 
blade  springs,  but  the  plant  does  not  go  on  to  flower !  There  are 
cases  where  it  flowers,  but  no  fruit  is  subsequently  produced ! " 

Chapter  XXII.  The  Master  said,  "A  youth  is  to  be  regarded 
with  respect  How  do  we  know  that  his  future  will  not  be  equal  to 
our  present?  If  he  reach  the  age  of  forty  or  fifty,  and  has  not 
made  himself  heard  of,  then  indeed  he  will  not  be  worth  being  re- 
garded with  respect." 


**  ^  |l|»  but  *  &°°*  *****  cannot  be  made 
oat  by  taking  it  so.  jjffi,^* tho'  oafr,'  ai  many 
take  it  in  VL  24.  Theleasonofthech.it— that 
sepeated  acquisition*  individually  small  will 
altimatel y  amount  to  much,  and  that  the  learn- 
er ia  never  to  gire  over. 

1ft.  Hwer  the  muumsr  sTUDBjrr. 

tO.  Co»rucics'roKDBBCoixacTioiro»Hwirr 
Aa  a  modbl  studbht.     This  is  said  to  have 

\*m  spoken  after  Hwu/s  death,  fjf^  looks 


as  if  it  were  so.  The  «=fc,  'not  yet,'  would  ra- 
ther make  us  think  differently. 

21.  It  is  ths  bnd  which  obowhb  thb  wobx. 

12.  how  akd  why  a  tooth  should  bb  bb- 
ojlbdbd  with  RBSPBOT.  The  same  person  ia 
spoken  of  throughout  the  ch.,  as  is  shown  by 

the  vm  in  the  last  sentence.  This  is  not  very  con- 
clusive, but  it  brings  out  a  good  enough  mean- 
ing. With  Conf.  remark  compare  that  of  John 
Trebonius,  Luther's  schoolmaster  at  Eisenach, 
who  used  to  raise  his  cap  to  his  pupils  on  enter- 
ing the  schoolroom,  and  gave  as  the  reason— 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


88 


COOTUCIAS  ANALECTS. 


mm tom^m %&„ 

%  b> #,  0>  £  %  M  ?fc  0> 

%.  m  &  &#:fl^if 

Hk  &>£      &  SUSIE 

4.    %     w  %  £  to 


Chapter  XXIII.  The  Master  said,  "  Can  men  refuse  to  assent 
to  the  words  of  strict  admonition  ?  But  it  is  reforming  the  conduct 
because  of  them  which  is  valuable.  Can  men  refuse  to  be  pleased 
with  words  of  gentle  advice?  But  it  is  unfolding  their  aim  which 
is  valuable.  If  a  man  be  pleased  with  these  words,  but  does  not 
unfold  their  aim,  and  assents  to  those,  but  does  not  reform  his  con- 
duct, I  can  really  do  nothing  with  him." 

Chapter  XXIV.  The  Master  said,  "Hold  faithfulness  and  sin- 
cerity as  first  principles.  Have  no  friends  not  equal  to  yoursel£ 
When  you  have  faults,  do  not  fear  to  abandon  them." 

Chapter  XXV.  The  Master  said,  "The  commander  of  the  force* 
of  a  large  state  may  be  carried  off,  but  the  will  of  even  a  common 
man  cannot  be  taken  from  him." 


'There  are  among  these  boys  men  of  whom  God 
will  one  day  make  burgomas tera,  chancellors, 
doctors,  and  magistrate*.  Although  yon  do  not 
vet  see  them  with  the  badges  of  their  dignity,' 
it  is  right  that  yom  should  treat  them  with  re- 
spect.'  4&  A,  'after  born,'  a  youth.  See^Q 

ij:,ii.s. 

23.  ThJB  BOPELSMinBSS  OF  THE  CA81  OF 
TH08E  WHO  A88KNT  AND  APPROVE  WITHOUT  RE- 
FORMATIO* OR  SSRIODS  THOUGHT.    4t  WSJ*  j7 

sT,  'words  of  law-like  admonition.'     68,  is 

the  name  of  the  diagram,  to  which  the  element 
of '  wind '  is  attached.  Wind  enters  everywhere, 
hence  the  char,  is  interpreted  by  'entering/ 

and  also  by  'mildness,'  'yielding.'  §^8f^£ 
*||\  'words  of  gentle  insinuation.'   In  |§|^ 


^S  "&,  an  anteeed.  to  ^  is  readily  found 

in  the  prec.  =|T,  but  in  ^  ^  1&K*'  "^ 
an  anteeed.  can  only  be  found  in  a  roundabout 
way.  This  is  one  of  the  cases  which  shows  the 
inapplicability  to  Chinese  composition  of  our 

strict  syntactical  apparatus,  ^fr  as  in  eh.  10. 

24.  This  is  a  repetition  of  part  of  L  8. 

25.  The  will  unsuhduablb.  ~L  S> fle0 
VIL  10.  |JjJ),  read  atoae,  lower  8d  tone,-^ 
£|||, 'a  general.'  pC,  'mate/  We  find  in  the 
diet.— 'Husband  and  wife  of  the  common  peo- 
ple are  a  pair  (^Q  (7CV  and  the  applies,  of  the 
term  being  thus  fixed,  an  indiridual  man  U 
called  DC  Jc,  an  indiridual  woman  PC  & 


CONFUCIAN  ANALBCT8, 


89 


zmto»M& 


r 

r_ ..._    _    ...   

W  *  #  4fejfc  *Ji  *  W  *? 

&    r*    m    =fnm 

X      *      h      SAAX 

Chapter   XXVI.  1  f    The  Master  said,  "  Dressed  himself  in  a  tat. 

red  robe  quilted  with  hemp,  yet  standing  by  the  side  of  men  dressed 
furs,  and  not  ashamed  ;—ah !  it  is  Yew  who  is  equal  to  this, 

2.  " '  He  dislikes  none,  he  courts  nothing  ;— whp,t  c«i  he  do  but 
what  isgood?"' 

3,  'LszeJbo  kept  continually  repeating  these  words  of  the  ode, 
frhen  the  Master  said,  "  Those  things  &re  by  no  means  sufficient  to 
ionstitute  perfect  excellence, " 

Chapter  XXVII.  The  Master  said,  "When  the  year  becomes 
cold,  then  we  know  how  the  pine  and  the  cypress  are  the  last  to  lose 
Iheir  leaves/' 

Chapter  XXVIII,  The  Master  said,  "The  wise  are  free  from 
perplexities ;  the  virtuous  from  anxiety ;  and  the  bold  from  fepr." 

Chapter  XXIX,  The  Master  said,  "There  are  some  with  whom 
we  may  study  in  common,  but  we  shall  find  them  unable  to  go  along 
with  us  to  principles,     Perhaps  we  may  go  on  with  them  to  prin» 


26,     TsBR-UK/S    BRAVE   CONTKWTMBNT  TV  POr 
,  fBBTT,  BUT  FAILURE  TO  0BBK  THK  HIGHEST  AIMS. 

i  I.  On  the  eonstr.  of  this  par.,  comp.  ch.  19.  The 
H  is  the  f of.  The  ££,  read  hS,  is  probably 
"  ffee  badger.  It  is  described  as  nocturnal  in  its 
t  Iribits,  yielding  a  soft,  warm,  fur.  It  sleeps 
■  WH^  *°^ ls  camiToroiis,  This  last  charaeter- 
r"  SHe  U  not  altogether  inapplicable  to  tlie  bad- 

[px,  **eihe2Ji^gfeo^  2  Sec  the  She- 
kel, iii.  8.  at.  4.  *.jj^|^  not*  all  his  life,' 
AS  frequently,  but  'continually.'  Tsxe-loo  was  a 

I"  tea*  of  impulse,  with  many  fine  points,  but  not 
~  '   itiy  reflective. 


97.  Mew  aab  k*own  jw  tt^bs  of  apvbrsjtt, 
^k  St^'  **ne  after-withering,'  a  meiosis  fo* 
their  being  evergreens, 

26.      SEQUENCES  OP  WISDOM,  VIRTUE,  AVP  BBA- 

very.  ^2  3§{*  Jf>  ^f,^-this  |s  one  of  the  say- 
ings about  virtue,  which  is  oply  true  pf  pious 
trust  in  frod. 

29,      HOW    niFFBRBVT    INDIVIDUALS   STOP   AT 

different  STAGES  op  PBOORB88.  More  literal* 
ly  rendered,  this  ch.  would  be — 'It  may  be  pos« 
SiMe  with  some  parties  together  to  study,  but  it 
may  not  yet  be  possible  with  them  to  go  on  to 

principles,  Ac.*  j£|,  the  weight  of  a  steel-yard, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


90 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£  &  Well 


MU 


TlC  *&  |& 


ciplea,  but  we  shall  find  them  unable  to  get  established  in  those 
along  with  us.  Or  if  we  may  get  so  established  along  with  them,  we 
shall  find  them  unable  to  weigh  occurring  events  along  with  us." 

.Chapter  XXX.   1.     How  the  flowers  of  the  aspen-plum  flutter 
and  turn  I     Do  I  not  think  of  you  ?     But  your  house  is  distant. 

2.     The  Master  said,  "It  is  the  want  of  thought  about  it.     How 
is  it  distant?" 


then  '  to  weigh.'  It  is  used  here  with  ref.  to  oc- 
curring events, — to  wei^h  them  and  determine 
the  application  of  principles  to  them.    In  the 

old  comra.,  tf£  is  used  here  in  opposition  to  jV, 

the  latter  being;  that  which  is  always,  and 
everywhere  right,  the  former  a  deviation  from 
that  in  particular  circumstances,  to  bring  things 
right.  This  meaning  of  the  term  here  is  de- 
nied. The  ancients  adopted  it  probably  from 
their  interpretation  of  the  second  clause  in  the 
next  chM  which  they  made  one  with  this. 

HO.  The  necessity  op  rkflbction.  1.  This 
is  from  one  of  the  pieces  of  poetry,  which  Conf. 
did  not  admit  into  his  collection,  and  no  more 
of  it  being  preserved  than  what  we  have  here, 
it  is  not  altogether  intelligible.    There  are  long 

disputes  about  the  Bf  >fcjfc.  Choo  He  makes 
it  a  kind  of  small  plum  or  cherry  tree,  whose 
leaves  are  constantly   quivering,  even  when 


there  is  no  wind,  and  adopting  a  reading:,  »  a 
book  of  theTsin  (^)  dynn  of  gg  fe*  |g, 

and  changing  fjF  into  ]H,  he  makes  owt  the 
meaning  in  the  transl.  The  old  coram,  keep  the 
text,  and  interpret, — '  How  perversely  costtnrj 
are  the  flowers  of  the  T4ans>tae ! '  saying  that 
those  flowers  are  first  open  and  then  shut. 
This  view  made  them  take  |£|  in  the  last  eh, 
as  we  have  noticed.  Who  or  what  is  meant  by 
jj|  in  Iff  JH,  we  cannot  tell.     The  two 

jfj)  are  mere  expletives,  completing  the  rhythm. 

2.  With  this  par.  Choo  He  compares  VII.  S0^— 
The  whole  ch.  is  like  the  20th  of  the  last  book, 
and  suggests  the  thought  of  its  being  an  addi- 
tion by  another  hand  to  the  original  compiii 
tkm. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COOTDCIAK  ANALECTS. 


91 


+  BOOK  X.  HEANG  TANG.  + 


,     X  &J:  *  ff.ftl  IB  It. 


^Chapter  L  L  Confucius,  in  his  village,  looked  simple  and  sin- 
cere, and  as  if  he  were  not  able  to  speak. 

2.  When  he  was  in  the  prince's  ancestorial  temple,  or  in  the 
court,  he  spoke  minutely  on  every  point,  but  cautiously. 

Chapter  II.  1.  When  he  was  waiting  at  court,  in  speaking  with 
the  officers  of  the  lower  grade,  he  spake  freely,  but  in  a  straight- 
forward manner;  in  speaking  with  the  officers  of  the  higher  grade, 
he  did  so  blandly,  but  precisely. 

2.  When  the  prince  was  present,  his  manner  displayed  respect- 
ful uneasiness ;  it  was  grave,  but  self-possessed. 

1.  In  the  diet.,  quoting  from  a  record  of  'the 
former  Han  dyn.,    the  ^jj$   contained  2,500 

families,  and  the  18?  only  500,  hut  the  two 
terms  are  to  he  taken  here  together,  indicating 
the  residence  of  the  Sage's  relative*.  His  native 
place  in  Loo  is  doubtless  intended,  and  perhaps 


Hjumvo  of  this  Book.— $J$  jjp£  fj£  +• 
Tl»  village,  No  10.'  This  book  is  different  in 
iti  character  from  all  the  others  in  the  work. 
It  contains  hardly  any  sayings  of  Confucius, 
hut  is  descriptive  of  his  ways  and  demeanour 
in  a  variety  of  places  and  circumstances.  It  is 
not  uninteresting,  but,  as  a  whole,  it  does  not 
heighten  our  veneration  for  the  sage.  We  seem 
to  know  him  better  from  it,  and  to  Western 
minds,  after  being  viewed  in  his  bedchamber, 
bis  undress,  and  at  his  meals,  he  becomes  divest- 
ed of  a  good  deal  of  his  dignity  and  reputation. 
There  is  something  remarkable  about  the  style. 

Only  in  one  passage  is  he  styled  •?-,  '  The 

Matttr:    He  appears  either  as  ^  ^-,  4The 

philosopher,  Ifung,'  or  as  iBf^r*  'The  superior 
nan.'  A  suspicion  is  thus  raised  that  the 
chronicler  had  not  the  same  relation  to  him  as 
the  compilers  of  the  other  books.  Anciently, 
the  book  formed  only  one  chapter,  but  it  is  now 
arranged  under  seventeen  divisions.  Those  di- 
visions, for  convenience  in  the  translation,  I  con- 
tinue to  denominate  chapters,  which  is  done 
also  in  some  native  editions. 
1 .  Dame  inoub  of  Confucius  nr  his  village, 

U  TEE  AWKSTEAL  TEMTLB,  AJID  HI  THE  COURT. 


the  original  seat  of  his  family  in  Sung.    f|j| 

jfy  ijfP  is  ezpl.  by  Wang  Suh  4  mild-like,'  and 
bv  Choo  He,  as  in  the  transl.,  thinking  proba- 
bly that,  with  that  meaning,  it  suited  the  next 

clause  better.  2.  -fifi,  read  p'aea,  lower  1st  tone 

»|j&  'to  debate/  'to  discriminate  accurately/ 

B?= S.  In  those  two  places  of  high  ceremony 
and  of  government,  it  became  the  sage,  it  is 
said,  to  be  precise  and  particular.  Comp.  III.  15. 

2.     Demeanour    of   Confucius  at   court 
with  other  officers,  and  bbfork  the  prince. 

1.  $H  may  be  taken  here  as  a  verb,  lit.*='court- 
ing.*  It  was  the  custom  for  all  tlie  officers  to 
repair  at  daybreak  to  the  court,  and  wait  for 
the  prince  to  give  them  audience,  -fc  jfcf 
*  great  officer;  was  a  general  name,  applicable 

Digitized  by  V300Q IC 


92 


COfttttCIAN  ANAUBCttH 


A' 

n 


CHAPf«it  III.  L  When  the  prince  called  him  to  ettiploy  him  in 
the  reception  of1  a  visitor*  his  countenance  appeared  to  chahge,  and 
Ws  legs  to  bend  beneath  hlm»  } 

2i  He  inclined  himself  to  the  other  officers  atnotig  whotn  he  staid, 
lAoving  his  left  of  right  arm,  as  their  jxahion  required,  but  keying 
the  skirts  of  his  robe  before  and  behind  evenly  adjusted. 

&     He  hastened  forward,  with  his  arms  like  the  wings  of  a  bird* 

4>  When  the  guest  had  retired,  he  would  report  to  the  priuce^ 
^The  visitor  is  not  turning  round  any  more/*  t 

Chafer  lV\  1.  When  he  entered  the  palace  gate,  he  seemed 
to  bend  his  body,  as  if  it  were  not  sufficient  to  admit  him. 

huncio,  in  Immediate  commun-.  With  himself 


to  all  the  higher  ministers  in  a  court.    At  the 
imperial  court  they  were  divided  into  three 

-classes,— 'highest,'  'middle,'  and  'lowest,'    h , 

tfl>  "Tv  but  the  rations  princes  had  only  the 

first  and  thinL    Of  the  first  order  there  were 

■properly  three,  the  tita  or  nobles  of  the  state* 

who  were  in  Loo  the  chiefs  of  the  'three  fami- 
lies*'  ConfuciuS  belonged  himself  to  the  lower 

grade.    2.  gfej  Jjj",  'the  feet  movihg  uneasily/ 

indicating  the  respectful  anxiety  of  the  mind. 

ifii,  low.  1st  tone*  here  appears  in  the  phrase 

|P|  J5*i  #P  {&>  in  a  new  sense. 

8*  Dbmbafoue  of  Confucius  at  the  of- 
ficial becbption  of  a  visiToa.  1.  The  visitor 
is  supposed  to  be  the  prince  of  another  state. 
On  the  occasion  of  two  princes  meeting  there 
was  much  ceremony*  The  visitor  having  arrived, 
remained  outside  the  front  gate,  and  the  host 
inside  his  reception  room,  which  was  in  the 
ancestral  temple.  Messages  passed  between 
them  by  means  of  a  number  of  officers  called 

»,  on  the  side  of  the  visitor,  and  ^§f>  on  the 


side  of  the  host,  who  formed  a  2lg£ag  line  of 
communication  from  the  one  to  the  other^  and 
passed  their  questions  and  answers  along,  till  an 
understanding  about  the  visit  was  thus  officially 

effected.    J^  g3  £jj  is  explained  by  $£ 

JK*  mJ> '  tn®  appearance  of  turning  round  and 
inclination,'  I  suppose  I  have  expressed  the  idea 
in  the  transl.  2.  This  shows  Conf.  manner  when 
engaged  in  the  transmission  of  the  messages 
between  the  prince  and  his  visitor.  The  prince's 


was  the    ^  Si,  the  next  was  the  jS  : 

and  below  were  one  or  more  j£9  jQ§.  Conf. 
must  have  been  the  thing  pin,  bowing  to  the 

3ght  as  he  transmitted  a  message  to  the  tkamc 
n,  who  was  an  officer  of  the  higher  grade,  and 
to  the  left  as  he  commun.  one  from  him  to  the 
ahuon  pin-,  3.  The  host  having  come  out  to 
receive  his  Visitor,  proceeded  in  With  him,  it  is 
said,  followed  by  all  their  internuncios  in  a 
line,  and  to  his  manner  in  this  movement  this 
par.  is  generally  referred.  But  the  duty  of  Pee- 
ing the  guest  off,  thesubj.  of  next  par.,  belonged 
to  the  shung  pin,  and  could  uot  be  performed  by 
Conf.  as  merely  a  siting  pin.  Hence  arises  a 
difficulty.  Either  it  it  trUe  that  fcohfi  Was  aft 
one  time  raised  to  the  rank  of  the  highest  dig- 
nitaries of  the  state,  or  he  was  temporarily 
employed,  for  his  knowl.  of  ccrem.,  after  the 
first  act  in  the  reception  of  visitors,  to  discharge 

the  duties  of  one.    Assuming  this,  the  £8  j$£ 

is  to  be  explained  of  some  of  his  movements 
in  the  reception  room.  Ho*  could  he  hurry 
forward  when  walking  in  file  With  the  other 

internuncios?    See  the  ^  ^  ^  it.  23.   4. 

jj£t^||  fiff  'would  return  the  commission; 
t.  e.,  ne  had  seen  the  guest  on*,  according  to  his 
duty,  and  reported  it.  The  ways  of  China,  it 
appears,  were  much  the  same  anciently  as  now. 
A  guest  tufas  roUnd  and  bows  repeatedly  in 
leaving*,  and  the  host  can't  return  to  his  place, 
till  these  salutations  are  ended. 

4.  Dr.Uranour  of  Confucius  in  the  cocar 
at  aN  ArntBNcs.  1.  The  imperial  court  con- 
sisted of  five  divisions,  each  having  its  peculiar 


■in 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  LC 


COmmCtAM  ANALECTS, 


93 


m  *m«  t&  mta  &  &  m  % 


ita 


4, fa  $$■  4, 


>>*     l>^      TTl  7|V 

2.  When  he  was  standing,  he  did  not  occupy  the  middle  of  the 
gate-way;  when  he  passed  in  or  out,  he  did  not  tread  upon  the 
threshold* 

3.  When  he  was  passing  the  vacant  place  of  the  prince,  his  counte- 
nance appeared  to  change,  and  his  legs  to  bend  under  him,  and  his 
Words  came  as  if  he  hardly  had  breath  to  utter  them, 

4.  He  ascended  the  dais,  holding  up  his  robe  with  both  his 
hands,  and  his  body  bent;  holding  in  his  breath  also,  as  if  he  dared 
not  breathe. 

5.  When  he  came  out  from  the  audience,  as  soon  as  he  had 
descended  one  step,  he  began  to  relax  his  countenance,  and  had  a 
Satisfied  look.  When  he  had  got  to  the  bottom  of  the  steps,  he 
advanced  rapidly  to  his  place^  with  his  arms  like  wings,  and  on 
occupying  it,  his  manner  stiti  showed  respectful  uneasiness. 

Chafter  V.  1.  When  he  was  carrying  the  sceptre  of  his  prince, 
he  seemed  to  bend  his  body>  as  if  he  were  not  able  to  bear  its  weight. 
He  did  not  hold  it  higher  than  the  position  of  the  hands  in  making 

gate.    That  of  a  prince  of  a  state  consisted  on-    .   A.     *l  _     . .  .  ~     .    . 

to  the  ^J,  now  empty,  which  Confucius  passes 

in  his  way  to  the  audience  in  the  inner  apart- 
ment.   4.  !3fK  see  IX. 9.    He  is  now  ascending 

the  steps  to  the  *tjft,  'the  dais,'  or  raised  plat- 
form in  the  inner  apartment,  where  the  prince 
held  his  council,  or  gave  entertainments,  and 
from  which  the  family  rooms  of  the  palace 
branched  off.  5.  The  audience  is  now  oyer,  and 
Conf.  is  returning  to  his  usual  place  at  the  for- 
mal audience.    Ktwg  Gan-kwo  makes  the  -fgf 

to  be  the  *j*  in  par.  8,  but  improperly.   £|6 

after  raj  is  an  addition  that  has  somehow  crept 
into  the  ordinary  text. 
5*  Demeanour  of  Confucius  when  bhplot- 


ly  of  three,  whose  gates  were  named  Jjfi,  tyjfc 

«■*  £&  The  Jfc  p^  is  the  /bo,  or  first  of 
these.  The  bending  his  body  when  passing 
through,  high  as  the  gate  was,  is  supposed  to 
indicate  the  great  reverence  which  Conf.  felt. 

sot  stand  opposite  the  middle  of  the  gate-way.' 
Bscfa  gate  had  a  post  in  the  centre,  called  ||[|,  by 
yhich  it  was  divided  Into  two  halves,  appropriat- 
ed to  ingress  and  egress.  The  prince  only  could 
•Und  in  the  centre  of  either  of  them,  and  he 
only  could  tread  on  the  threshold  or  sill.  3. 
At  the  early  formal  audience  at  day-break, 
when  the  prince  came  out  of  the  inner  apart- 
ment, and  received  the  homage  of  the  officers, 
he  occupied  a  particular  spot  called  ±r*.    This 


ID  ON   A  FJUBNDLT  BMEASST.      1.    _ 

Digitized  by 


■gle 


94 


COX7UCIAS  ANALECTS. 


...  Uti'mm* ... 

*  m  &  m  m 


wr#n± 
urn,®  & 


a  bow,  nor  lower  than  their  position  in  giving  anything  to  another 
His  countenance  seemed  to  change,  and  look  apprehensive,  and  he 
dragged  his  feet  along  as  if  they  were  held  by  something  to  tfce 
ground. 

2.  In  presenting  the  presents  with  which  he  was  charged,  he  wort 
a  placid  appearance. 

3.  At  his  private  audience,  he  looked  highly  pleased. 
Chapter  \  L  L    The  superior  man  did  not  use  a  deep  purple, 

or  a  puce  colour,  in  the  ornaments  of  his  dress. 

2.  Even  in  his  undress,  he  did  not  wear  anything  of  a  red  or  red- 
dish colour. 

3.  In  warm  weather,  he  had  a  single  garment  either  of  coarse  or 
fine  texture,  but  he  wore  it  displayed  over  an  inner  garment. 

4.  Over  lambs  fur  he  wore  a  garment  of  black;  over  fawn's  far 
one  of  white ;  and  over  fox's  fur  one  of  yellow. 

on  such  a  minion,  and  supposes  thai  this  eh, 
and  the  precede  are  simply  rammaiiea  of  tfct 


translated  'sceptre,1  in  the  sense  simply  of  'a 
badge  of  authority/  It  was  a  precious  stone, 
conferred  by  the  emperor  on  the  princes,  and 
differed  in  site  and  shape,  according  to  their 
rank.  They  took  it  with  them  when  they  at- 
tended the  imper.  court,  and,  ace.  to  Choo  He, 
and  the  old  interpr.,  it  was  carried  also  by  their 
representatives,  as  their  Toucher,  on  occasions 
of  embassies  among  themselves.    In  the  iffi 

l»R  tft'  U'  *•»  now«Ter,  it  is  contended,  appar. 
on  suff.  grounds,  that  the  sceptre  then  employed 
was  different  from  the  other.  Bfc,  up.  1st  tone, 
•to  be  equal  to,'  'able  for.'  2.  The  prec.  par. 
describes  Conf.  manner  in  the  friendly  court, 
at  his  first  interview,  showing  his  credentials, 
and  delivering  his  message.  That  done,  he  had 
to  deliver  the  various  presents  with  which  he 
was  charged.  This  was  called  2£,»{J£.  8. 
After  all  the  public  presents  were  delivered, 
the  ambassador  had  others  of  his  own  to  give, 
and  his  interview  for  that  purpose  was  called 
%L  fR-— Cho°  He  remarks  that  there  is  no 
record  of  Confucius  ever  having  been  employed 


manner  in  which  he  used  to  say  duties  refer- 
red to  in  them  ought  to  be  discharged. 

6.      RULBS  OP  COHTUCIUS  IH    RBGAftD   TO  ■» 

desss.— The  discussions  about  the  oosourc  Ins* 
mentioned  are  lengthy  and  tedious.  I  am  as* 
confident  that  I  have  given  them  all  corneal 

in  the  transL    1.  jfr  -^  used  here  to  ifcimii 

Confucius  can  hardly  have  come  from  tfcsjftsdt 

-***«>-*  «»#«2 

deep  azure  flushed  with  carnation/  fit^ff 
|3J ,  'a  deep  red;'  it  was  dipped  thrice  in  a'gsl- 
dye,  and  then  twice  in  a  black/  ££,  forW^sS 

ment,'  i  e„  for  the  edgings  of  the  collar  *J»f 
sleeves.    The  kan,  it  is  said,  by  Choo  He, 
K(ung  Gan-kwfi,  was  worn  in  fasting, 
Uow  in  mourning,  on  which  account  C 
would  not  use  them.    See  this  and  the  actional 

of  the  colours  denied  in  the  J$j  £&  Ifo  arise, 

2.  There  are  five  colours  which  go  by  thsitt» 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


95 


!    ^  ^  &  #f  Jf  #  ^ 

jib  ^^0m0^0^«  _ 

&  The  fur  robe  of  his  undress  was  long,  with  the  right  sleeve 
Bhort. 

6.  He  required  his  sleeping  dress  to  be  half  as  long  again  as  his 
body. 

7.  When  staying  at  home,  he  used  thick  furs  of  the  fox  or  the 
badger. 

8.  When  he  put  off  mourning,  he  wore  all  the  appendages  of 
the  girdle. 

9.  His  under-garment,  except  when  it  was  required  to  be  of 
tke  curtain  shape,  was  made  of  silk  cut  narrow  above  and  wide 
below. 

10.  He  did  not  wear  lamb's  fur,  or  a  black  cap,  on  a  visit  of 
condolence. 

11.  On  the  first  day  of  the  month,  he  put  on  his  court  robes, 
and  presented  himself  at  court. 


of  J£,  'correct/  vii„  ^,  jfi,  jfa  £f ,  Jjg, 

'azure,  yellow,  carnation,  white,  and  black;' 
others,  among  which  are  jfr  and  jH?,  go  by  the 

nana  of  fpj,  or  'intermediate.'    See  the  ^ 

tt,  in  Joe  Conf  .  would  nae  only  the  correct 
colours,  mod  moreorer,  Choo  He  adds,  red  and 
rgddialj-bhie  are  liked  by  women  and  girls. 
5z  jHt  his  dress,  when  in  prirate.  8.  4£  and 
jttLwere  made  from  the  fibres  of  a  creeping 
plant,  the  J£.    See  the  She-king,  LL2.   ^ 

3fc  56  Hi  ^w*  'he  must  display  and  have 
it  outwards.'  The  interpr.  of  this,  as  in  the 
tftttsU  after  Choo  He,  tho'  diff.  from  the  old 
coo^L,  seems  to  be  correct.  4.  The  lamb's  fur 
b^doaed  to  the  court  dress,  the  fawn's  was  worn 
on  eajoassles,  the  fox's  on  occasions  of  sacrifice, 
fc.  "5.  Conf.  knew  how  to  blend  comfort  and 
ceaveaicDce.  6.  This  par.,  it  is  supposed,  be- 
tongs  to  the  next  gIl,  in  which  case  U  is  not  the 


usual  sleeping  garment  of  Conf.  that  is  spoken 
of,  but  the  one  he  used  in  fasting,  -ML ,  low.  3d 

tone,  'over,'  'overplus.'    7.  These  are  the  f£jfc 

2^£  of  par.  5.  8.  The  appendages  of  the  girdle 
were,  the  handkerchief,  a  small  knife,  a  spike 
for  opening  knots,  &c.    ^fc,  up.  2d  tone,  'to 

put  away.'  9.  The  5&  was  the  lower  garment, 

reaching  below  the  knees  like  a  kilt  or  petti- 
coat. For  court  and  sac.  dress,  it  was  made 
curtain  like,  as  wide  at  top  as  at  bottom.  In 
that  worn  on  other  occasions,  Conf.  saved  tho 
cloth  in  the  way  described.    So,  at  least,  says 

ICung  Gan-kwo.    jW,  read  shae,  up.  3d  tone. 

10.  Lamb's  fur  was  worn  black  (par.  4),  but 
white  is  the  colour  of  mourning  in  China,  and 
Conf.  would  not  visit  mourners,  but  in  a  sym- 
pathizing colour.  11.  Tgr  J^9  '  the  fortunate 
day  of  the  moon,'  i.  e.,  the  first  of  the  month. 
This  was  Conf.  practice,  after  he  had  ceased  to 
be  in  office. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


9« 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


Chapter  VII.  1,  When  fasting,  he  thought  it  necessary  to  have 
his  clothes,  brightly  clean,  and  made  of  linen  cloth. 

2.  When  fasting,  he  thought  it  necessary  to  change  his  food, 
and  also  to  change  the  place  wnere  he  commonly  sat  in  the  apart- 
ment. 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  He  did  not  dislike  to  have  his  rice  finely 
cleaned,  nor  to  have  his  minced  meat  cut  quite  small, 

2.  He  did  not  eat  rice  which  had  been  injured  by  heat  or  damp 
and  turned  sour,  nor  fish  or  flesh  which  was  gone.  He  did  not 
eat  what  was  discoloured,  or  what  was  of  a  bad  flavour,  nor  any. 
thing  which  was  not  in  season. 

3.  He  did  not  eat  meat  which  was  not  cut  properly,  nor  what 
was  served  without  its  proper  sauce. 

4.  Though  there  might  be  a  large  quantity  of  meat,  he  would 
not  allow  what  he  took  to  exceed  the  due  proportion  for  the  rice, 
It  was  only  in  wine  that  he  laid  down  no  limit  for  himself,  but  he 
did  not  allow  himself  to  be  confused  by  it. 

5.  He  did  not  partake  of  wine  and  dried  meat,  bought  in  the 
market. 

it  to  the  state  of  ffi  rice.    2.  ££»  in  the 

diet,  is  'overdone/  beoce  ^  IK**' wrong 

in  being  overdone/  Some,  however,  make  the 
phrase  to  mean  '  badly  cooked,'  either,  under- 
done, or  overdone.  4.  ^P(tsxe)  §B> '  the  breath 
of  the  rice,'  or  perhaps,  'the  life-sustaining 
power  of  it,'  bat  45  can  hardly  be  translated 

here.  P^"^.  'only/  showing,  it  is  said, 
that  in  other  things  he  had  a  limit,  bat  the  use 
of  wine  being  to  make  glad,  he  could  not  before- 
hand set  a  limit  to  the  quantity  of  it,  6.  Lit, 
.'  He  did  not  take  away  ginger  in  eating.*  8. 
The  prince,  anciently  (and  U  is  still  a  custom), 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


7.  Bulbs  observed  bt  Confucius  when 

pasTnro.    1.  IK,  read  chat,  up  1st  tone ;  see 

VII.  12.  The  6th  par.  of  last  ch.  should  come 
in  as  the  2d  here.  2.  The  fasting  was  not  from 
all  food,  but  only  from  wine  or  spirits,  and  from 

pot  herbs.    Observe  the  diff.  between  ti£  and 

J9&  the  former '  to  change,'  the  lat, '  to  change 

from,'  *  to  remove.-- The  whole  ch.  may  be  com* 
pared  with  Matt.  VI.  16*18. 

8.  Rules  or  Confucius  about  his  food.  1. 

Jgf,  'minced  meat,'  ace  to  the  comnL,  was 
made  of  beef,  mutton,  or  fish,  uncooked.  100 
thing  of  paddy  were  reduced  to  80,  to  bring 


.CONFUCIAN  AKALECT8. 


97 


jib  A.      m  *  m  «r  *: 


6.    He  was  never  without  ginger  when  he  ate, 
7»     He  did  not  e$t  much. 

8,  When  he  had  been  assisting  at  the  prince's  sacrifice,  he  did 
not  keep  the  flesh  which  he  received  over  night.  The  flesh  of  his 
family  sacrifice  he  did  not  keep  oyer  three  days.  If  kept  over  three 
days,  people  could  not  eat  it, 

9.  When  eating,  he  did  not  converse.    When  in  bed,  he  did  not 


10  Although  his  food  might  b#  course  rice  and  vegetable  soup, 
%&  would  offer  a  little  of  it  in  sacrifice  with  a  grave  respectftil  air. 

Chapter  IX,     If  his  mat  was  not  straight,  ne  did  not  sit  on  it. 

Chapteb  X,  1,  When  the  villagers  were  drinking  together,  og, 
those  who  carried  stave3  going  out,  ne  went  out  immediately  after, 

2.  When  the  villagers  were  going  through  their  ceremonies  to 
drive  away  pestilential  influences,  he  put  on  his  court  robes  ancj. 
stood  on  the  eastern  steps. 

distributed  among  the  assisting  ministers  the 
lean  of  his  sacrifice.  Each  would  only  get  a 
Bttle,  and  so  it  could  be  used  at  once.    10.  ffl^ 

drould  be  changed  into  IjA,  according  to  Choo 
He.  Ho  An,  however,  retains  it,  an<J  putting  a 
comma  after  it,  joins  it  with  the  two  preced, 
specimen*  of  spare  diet-  The  *  sacrificing '  refers 
to  a  custom  something  Hke  our  saying  grace. 
?he  master  took  a  few  grains  of  rice,  or  part  of 
&£  other  provisions,  and  placed  them  on  the 
ground,  among  the  sacrificial  vessels,  a  tribute 
to  the  worthy  or  worthies  who  first  taught  the 
Vt  of  cooking.  The  Buddhist  priests  in  their 
monasteries  have  a  custom  of  this  kind,  and  on 
Public  occasions,  as  when  K'e-ying  gave  an 
"rtertsinment  in  Hongkong  in  1845,  something 
l&e  H  is  sometimes  observed,  but  any  such 
ceremony  is  unknown  among  the  common  habits 
tf  tte people.  However  poor  might  be this  tag, 


Confucius  always  observed  it  3K  cAfle,«Zffl£ 

the  graye  demeanour  appropriate  U>  fasting^ 

9.  Rule  of  Confucics  about  his  mat. 

10.  Other  ways  of  Confucius  in  his  viLy 
laoe.   1.  At  sixty,  people  carried  staves.  Conf, 

here  showed  his  respect  for  age.  JD?  has  here 
an -Adverbial  force,«<=(tn,    %.  There  were  three 

|K|  ceremonies  every  year,  but  that  in  the  text 

was  called  '  the  great  no,*  being  observed  >n  the 
winter  season,  when  the  officers  led  all  the  people 
of  a  village  about,  searching  every  house  to  ex* 
pel  demons,  and  drive  away  pestilence.  It  was 
conducted  wtyh  great  uproar,  and  little  better 
than  a  play,  but  Conf.  saw  a  good  old  idea  in. 
it,  and  when  the  mob  was  in  his  house,  he  atoocj 
on  the  eastern  steps  (the  place  of  a  host  receiving 
guests)  in  full  dress.  Some  make  the  steps 
those  of  his  ancestral  temple,  and  his  standing 
tfcere  to  be  (o  assure  the  spirits  of  his  shrine. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


98 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£ift£lftl* 

-k-g%&fa%m<ZM 


Chapter  XL  1.  When  he  was  sending  complimentary  inquiries 
to  any  one  in  another  state,  he  bowed  twice  as  ne  escorted  the  mes- 
senger away. 

2.  Ke  K'ang  having  sent  him  a  present  of  physic,  he  bowed  and 
received  it,  saying,  "  I  do  not  know  it.     I  dare  not  taste  it." 

Chapter  XII.  The  stable  being  bnrned  down,  when  he  was  at 
court,  on  his  return  he  said,  "Has  any  man  been  hurt?"  He  did 
not  ask  about  the  horses. 

Chapter  XIII.  1.  When  the  prince  sent  him  a  gift  of  cooked 
meat,  he  would  adjust  his  mat,  first  taste  it,  and  then  give  it  away  to 
others.  When  the  prince  sent  him  a  gift  of  undressed  meat,  he  would 
have  it  cooked,  and  offer  it  to  the  spirits  of  his  ancestors.  When  the 
prince  sent  him  a  gift  of  a  living  animal,  he  would  keep  it  alive. 

2.  When  he  was  in  attendance  on  the  prince  and  joining  in  the 
entertainment,  the  prince  only  sacrificed  He  first  tasted  every 
thing. 

knowing  bnt  it  might  previously  have  been 
offered  by  the  prince  to  the  spirits  of  his.  Bnt 
he  reverently  tasted  it,  as  if  he  had  been  in  the 
prince's  presence.  He  'honoured*  the  gift  of 
cooked  food,  *  glorified '  the  undressed,  and  *  was 
kind '  to  the  living  animaL  2.  The  45  here  is 
that  in  ch.  8,  10.  Among  parties  of  equal  rank, 
all  performed  the  ceremony,  but  Conf.,  with  his 
prince,  held  that  the  prince  sacrificed  for  all 
He  tasted  every  thing,  as  if  he  had  been  a  cook, 
it  being  the  cook's  duty  to  taste  every  dish,  be- 
fore the  prince  partook  of  it.  8.  "||\  upper  9d 
tone,  ]p|  [fij,  the  direction  of  the  head.'  The 
head  to  the  east  was  the  proper  position  for  a 
person  in  bed ;  a  sick  man  might  for  comfort  be 
lying  differently,  but  Conf.  would  not  see  the 
prince  but  in  the  correct  position,  and  also  in 
the  court  dress,  so  far  as  he  could  accomplish 
it.  4.  He  would  not  wait  a  moment,  but  let 
his  carriage  follow  him. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


11.  Traits  of  Confucius'  intercourse 
with  OTHKB8.  1.  The  two  bows  were  not  to 
the  messenger,  but  intended  for  the  distant 
friend  to  whom  he  was  being  sent.    2.  J|l£  was 

the  *|5f||-^-  of  II.  20,  et  al.    Conf .  accepted 

the  gift,  but  thought  it  necessary  to  let  the 
donor  know  he  could  not,  for  the  present  at 
least,  avail  himself  of  it. 

12.  HOW   CoNFUCIUS   VALUED    HUMAN   LIFE- 

A  En£  was  fitted  to  accommodate  216  horses. 

See  the  ^j|  j}^,  m  loe.  It  may  be  used  indeed 
for  a  private  stable,  but  it  is  more  natural  to 
take  it  here  for  the  BB  or  state  hew.    This  is 


the  view  in  the  ' 


m' 


13.  Demeanour  of  Confucius  in  relation 
to  his  prince.  1.  He  would  not  offer  the 
cooked  meat  to  the  spirits  of  his  ancestors,  not 


COOTUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


9» 


MM 


mm, 


mtkfSL 


si 


'w.  Jit 


3.  When  he  was  sick  and  the  prince  came  to  visit  him,  he  had 
his  head  to  the  east,  made  his  court  robes  be  spread  over  him,  and 
drew  his  girdle  across  them* 

4.  When  the  prince's  order  called  him,  without  waiting  for  his 
carriage  to  be  yoked,  he  went  at  once. 

Chapter  XIV.  When  he  entered  the  ancestral  temple  of  the 
state,  he  asked  about  everything. 

Chapter  XV.  1.  When  any  of  his  friends  died,  if  he  had  no 
relations  who  could  be  depended  on  for  the  necessary  offices,  he 
would  say,  "  1  will  bury  |him." 

2.  When  a  friend  sent  him  a  present,  though  it  might  be  a  car- 
riage and  horses,  he  did  not  bow. 

3.  The  only  present  for  which  he  bowed  was  that  of  the  flesh 
of  sacrifice. 

Chapter  XVI.  1.  In  bed,  he  did  not  lie  like  a  corpse.  At 
home,  he  did  not  put  on  any  formal  deportment. 

2.  When  he  saw  any  one  in  a  mourning  dress,  though  it  might 
be  an  acquaintance,  he  would  change  countenance ;  when  he  saw 
any  one  wearing  the  cap  of  full  dress,  or  a  blind  person,  though 
he  might  be  in  his  undress,  he  would  salute  them  in  a  ceremonious 
manner. 


14.  A  repetition  of  HI.  15.  Comp.  also  ch. 
2.  These  two  passages  make  the  explanation, 
giren  at  III.  15,  of  the  questioning  being  on  his 
first  entrance  on  office  very  doubtful. 

15.  Traits  of  Confucius  in  the  relation 

or  a  friend.    1.  5||,  properly,  'the  closing 

fcp  of  the  coffin/  is  here  used  for  all  the  expenses 
tnd  services  necessary  to  interment.  2.  Between 
friends  there  should  be  a  community  of  goods. 


'  The  flesh  of  sacrifice,'  however,  was  that  which 
had  been  offered  by  his  friend  to  the  spirits  of  his 
parents  or  ancestors.  That  demanded  acknow- 
ledgment. 

16.      COJIFUCIUS    IN    BSD,    AT   HOME,    HEARING* 

thunder,  &c.  2.  Comp.  IX.  9,  which  is  here 
repeated,  with  heightening  circumstances.    3. 

2^  is  the  front  bar  of  a  cart  or  carriage.    In 

fact,    the    carriage   of  Confucius'   time   was 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


100 


CONFU&AK  ANALfiCfft. 


I 


K0% 


^.^ 


Oi 


3.  To  any  person  in  mourning  he  bowed  forward  to  the 
liar  of  his  carriage ;  he  bowed  in  the  same  way  to  any  one  bearing 
the  tables  of  population* 

4.  When  he  was  at  an  entertainment  where  there  was  an  abun- 
dance of  provisions  set  before  him,  he  Would  change  countenance 
tod  rise  up. 

5.  On  a  sudden  clap  of  thunder*  or  a  violent  wind,  he  would 
change  countenance. 

Chapter  XVII.  1.  When  he  was  about  to  mount  his  carriage, 
he  would  stand  straight,  holding  the  cord* 

2.     When  he  was  in  the  carnage,  he  did  not  turn  his  head  quite 


jround,  he  did  not  talk  hastily,  he  did  not  point  with  his  hands. 
Chapter  XVIIL     1.     Seeing  the  countenance,  it  instantly  r 


rises. 


It  flies  round,  and  by  and  bye  settles. 

2.     The  Master  said^    "There  is  the  hen-pheasant  on  the  hill 


Ibridge.     At  its  season !    At  its  season  !* 
it.     Thrice  it  smelt  him  and  then  rose. 

only  what  we  call  a  carfe  In  saluting  when 
riding,  parties  bowed  forward  to  this  bar.  4. 
He  showed  these  signs,  with  reference  to  the 
(generosity  of  the  provider. 

17.  Confucius  at  and  in  his  cabriagb.  1. 
4"he  ££  was  a  strap  or  cord,  attached  to  the 
carriage  to  assist  in  mounting  it.  2.  jf\  £h 
fifi,  •  He  did  not  look  round  within,'  i  tn  turn 


Tszc-loo  made  a  motion  to 


SeetheLeKe,Li.5.|L 


his  head  quite  round. 
48. 

18.  A  fragment,  which  seemingly  has  no 
connect,  with  the  rest  of  the  book.  Various  cor- 
rections of  characters  are  proposed,  and  varied 
views  of  the  meaning  given.  Ho  An's  view  of 
the  conclusion  is  this. — 'Tsze-loo  took  it  snd 
served  it  up.    The  Master  thrice  smelt  it  sad 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONVUCtAN  ANALECTS. 


101 


BOOK  XL  SEEN  TSIN. 


Chapter  L  1.  The  Master  s&ic^  "  The  men  of  former  times,  in 
the  matters  of  ceremonies  and  musics  were  rustic^  it  is  said,  while 
the  men  of  these  latter  times,  in  ceremonies  and  music,  are  accom» 
£lished  gentlemen. 

2.  "  If  I  have  occasion  to  use  those  things,  I  follow  the  men  of 
former  times." 

Chapter  II.  1.  The  Master  said,  "  Of  those  who  were  with  me 
in  Chin  and  Ts^ae,  there  are  none  to  be  found  to  enter  my  door." 

2.  Distinguished  for  their  virtuous  principles  and  practice,  there 
were  Yen  Yuen,  Min  Tsze-kVen,  Yen  Pih-new,  and  Chung-kung; 
for  their  ability  in  speech,  Tsae  Go  and  Tsze-kung ;  for  their  adminis* 

subsequently,-^  fi  jft  ^  £  fjl  ffc 
*Hft#£5&  But  the  2d  par.  i. 
decidedly  against  this  interpretation.  £|j|  is 
not  to  be  joined  to  the  succeeding  Jf^  jjjM  &£> 
but  'jfc=quoa<L  It  is  supposed  that  the  char- 
acterizing the  4q  $f&  as  rustics,  and  their 

successors  as  ketLi*4szt,  was  a  style  of  his  tunes, 
which  Conf.  quotes  ironically.  We  have  in  it  a 
new  instance  of  the  various  application  of  the 

name  keun-tszc  In  the  4jm  *|sf »  it  is  said,  '  Of 
the  words  and  actions  of  men  in  their  mutual 
intercourse  and  in  the  business  of  government, 
whatever  Indicates  respect  is  here  included  in 
ceremonies,  and  whatever  is  expressive  of  Acir- 
mony  is  here  included  in  music* 

2.      CotfFUCIUS'    REGRETFUL    MEMORY  OF    BM 
DISCIPLES*  FIDEL***.     CHARACTERISTICS  OF  TEH 

of  the  PisciPLES.  1.  This  utterance  must  have 
bee*  made  towards  the  close  of  Conf.  life,  wl 


1.     HeaDDTQ  OF  THIS   BOORV-^  j||  Jft 

-J-—,  'The  former  men— No.  XI.'    With 

tail  Book  there  commences  the  second  part  of 
the  Analects,  commonly  called  the  Etta  Im 

CT%  ffay  There  is,  however,  no  classical  au- 
thority for  this  division.  It  contains  25  chap- 
ters, treating  mostly  of  various  disciples  of 
the  Master,  and  deciding  the  point  of  their 
worthiness.  Min  Tsze-K*een  appears  in  it  four 
times,  and  on  this  account  some  attribute  the 
^wnpilation  of  it  to  his  disciples.  There  are 
indications  in  the  style  of  a  peculiar  hand. 

1.     COKFCCIDS*   PREFERENCE  OF  THE  SIMPLER 
WAYS  OF  FORMER  TIMES.     1.  ^  ${£,  ^  £||, 

are  said  by  Choo  He  to=^  |£,  4&  jig. 

Literally,  the  expressions  are,— *  those  who  first 
advanced,' '  those  who  afterwards  advanced,'  t.  e., 
on  the  stage  of  the  world.  In  Ho  An,  the  chap, 
ia  said  to  speak  of  the  disciples  who  had  first 
advanced  to  office,  and  those  who  had  advaaeed 


103 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


f  li  AID 


^Iro^L 


trative  talents,  Yen  Yew  and  Ke  Loo;  for  their  literary  acquire' 
ments,  Tsze-yew  and  Tsze-hea. 

Chapter  III.  The  Master  said,  "Hwuy  gives  me  no  assistance. 
There  is  nothing  that  I  say  in  which  he  does  not  delight." 

Chapter  IV.  The  Master  said,  "  Filial  indeed  is  Min  Tsze-k'eenl 
Other  people  say  nothing  of  him  different  from  the  report  of  his  pa- 
rents and  brothers." 

Chapter  V.  Nan  Yung  was  frequently  repeating  the  lines  abwt 
a  white  sceptre-stone.  Confucius  gave  him  the  daughter  of  hi* 
elder  brother  to  wife. 


many  of  his  disciples  had  been  remored  by 
death,  or  separated  from  him  by  other  causes. 
In  his  62d  year  or  thereabouts,  as  the  accounts 
go,  he  was  passing,  in  his  wanderings  from 
Chin  to  Ts'ae,  when  the  officers  of  Chin,  afraid 
that  he  would  go  on  into  Tsoo,  endeavoured  to 
stop  his  course,  and  for  several  days  he  and 
the  disciples  with  him  were  cut  off  from  food, 
both  Chin  and  Ts'ae  were  in  the  present  pro- 
vince of  Ho-nan,  and  are  referred  to  the  depart- 
ments of  $j[  j^  and  ijf  ^£.    2.  This  par. 

is  to  be  taken  as  a  note  by  the  compilers  of  the 
book,  enumerating  the  principal  followers  of 
1  Conf.  on  the  occasion  referred  to,  with  their  dis- 
tinguishing qualities.  They  are  arranged  in  four 

rlnssns  (DQ  ;£!•),  and,  amounting  to  ten,  are 
known  as  the  -4-  4|r.  The  'four  classes '  and 
'ten  wise  ones'  are  often  mentioned  in  connec- 
tion with  the  sage's  school. 

8.  Hwxrr's  silent  reception  op  the  Mas- 
ter's teachings.  A  teacher  is  sometimes 
helped  by  the  doubts  and  questions  of  learners, 
which  lead  him  to  explain  himself  more  fully. 

Comp.  HI.  8,  3.  ||j£  for  f&  as  in  1. 1, 1,  but 

K'ung  Gan-kw5  takes  it  in  its  usual  pronuncia^ 

.aej||,  (to  explain.' 


4.  The  filial  piett  or  Mm  Tsxb-k(h& 
P|j,  as  in  VHI.  21,  *  could  pick  out  no  crevice1 
or  flaw  in  the  words,  &c'  H[§§[  (about  A  J). 
200-250)  as  given  in  Ho  An,  explains— 'm* 
had  no  words  of  disparagement  for  his  oondsrf 
in  reference  to  his  parents  and  brothers.'  This 
is  the  only  instance  where  Conf.  calls  a  disci- 
ple by  his  designation.    The  use  of  «¥•  |^  i» 

supposed,  in  the  ^  jfir,  to  be  a  mistake  4 
the  compilers. 

5.  CONFUCIUS*  APPROBATION  OF  NaH  YflW* 

Nan  Yung,  see  V.  1.  £^,aeinV.  19.  Ihiit 
translated  it  by  'frequently,'  but,  in  the  'Fimi- 
ly  Sayings,' it  is  related  that  Yung  repeated  the 
lines  thrice  in  one  day.  |fj  ^fe,  see  the 
She-king,  HX  iii.  2,  st  5.  The  lines  there  «t 
— 'A  flaw  in  a  white  sceptre-stone,  vuj  ke 
ground  away ;  but  for  a  flaw  in  speech,  nothing 
can  be  done.'  In  his  repeating  of  these  tinea, 
we  have,  perhaps,  the  ground-virtue  of  the  cfctf. 
for  which  Yung  is  commended  in  V.  1.  01* 
3||  «¥•,  where  we  might  expect  Ap. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS; 


10* 


Chapter  VI.  Ke  K'ang  asked  which  of  the  disciples  loved  to 
*nu  Confucius  replied  to  him,  "There  was  Yen  Hwuy;  he 
>ved  to  learn.  Unfortunately  his  appointed  time  was  short,  and  he 
ied.    Now  there  is  no  one  who  loves  to  learn,  as  he  did." 

Chapter  VII.  1.  When  Yen  Yuen  died,  Yen  Loo  begged  the 
image  of  the  Master  to  get  an  outer  shell  for  his  son's  coffin. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "Every  one  calls  his  son  his  son,  whether  he 
at  talents  or  has  not  talents.  There  was  Le ;  when  he  died,  he 
id  a  coffin  but  no  outer  shell.  I  would  not  walk  on  foot  to  get  a 
tall  for  him,  because,  following  after  the  great  officers,  it  was  not 
roper  that  I  should  walk  on  foot." 

Chapter  VIII.  When  Yen  Yuen  died,  the  Master  said,  "Alas I 
leaven  is  destroying  me !     Heaven  is  destroying  me  1" 


*  How  Hwut  loved  to  leae*.    See  VI.  2, 
■ere  the  tame  question  is  pat  by  the  duke 
to*  ind  the  same  answer  is  returned,  only  in 
•ore  extended  form. 
I  How  Comrooius  would  wot  mux  ma  oae- 

taft  TO  BUT  A    SHELL  FOR  YeH   YuBH.      1.    A 

*•*  chronological  difficulty  belongs  here. 
**£  according  to  the  « Family  Savings,'  and 
* 'Historical  Records,'  must  hare  dfed  several 
?»■  before  Confucius*  son,  Le.  Either  the  dates 
1  torn  are  false,  or  this  ch.  is  spurious.— Yen 
»»tfceiatherof  Hwuy,  had  himself  been  a  dis- 
fcfeof  the  sage  in  former  years.  'fi  ^  $£$(*•  ?• 
^•mtextJr-tHaiethe  idiom  noticed  in  V.  7, 
.  ^  would  aJaottfeem  tote  an  active  verb 


followed  by  a  double  objective.  In  burying,  they 
used  a  coffin,  called  jfgf,  and  an  outer  shell,  with- 

out  a  bottom  which  waa  called  |£j|.  8.  ^^£ 

^^  ^^,  Ht^  a  follow  m  rear  of  the  great 

officers.'  This  is  said  to  be  an  expression  of 
humility.  Confucius,  retired  from  office,  might 
still  present  himself  at  court,  in  the  robes  of 
his  former  dignity,  and  would  still  be  consulted 
on  emergencies.  He  would  no  doubt  have  a 
foremost  place  on  such  occasions. 

8.  Comrooius  felt  Hwut*s  death  as  nr  it 
had  been  his  owe.  The  old  interpr.  make  this 
simply  the  exclamation  of  bitter  sorrow.  The 
meoectj,  pevhaps  correctly,  make  the  chief  in* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


104 


oootucuk  analects. 


^  4,  f*  W1  m*&  b. 


Chapter  IX.  1.  When  Yen  Yuen  died,  the  Master  bewailed 
him  exceedingly,  and  the  disciples  who  were  with  him  said,  "Sir, 
your  grief  is  excessive  ?  " 

2.  "Is  it  excessive?"  said  he, 

3.  "  If  I  am  not  to  mourn  bitterly  for  this  man,  for  whom  should 
I  mourn?" 

Chapter  X.  1.  When  Yen  Yuen  died,  the  disciples  wished  to 
give  him  a  great  funeral,  and  the  Master  said,  "  You  may  not  do  so," 

2.     The  disciples  did  bury  him  in  great  style. 

8.  The  Master  said,  "  Hwuy  behaved  towards  me  as  his  father. 
I  have  not  been  able  to  treat  him  as  my  son.  The  fault  is  not  mine ; 
it  belongs  to  you,  0  disciples." 

Chapter  XI,  Ke  Loo  asked  about  serving  the  spirits  of  the  dead. 
The  Master  said,  "While  you  are  not  able  to  serve  men,  how  can 
you  serve  their  spirits?"  Ke  Loo  added,  "I  venture  to  ask  about 
death?"  He  was  answered,  "While  you  do  not  know  life,  how  can 
you  know  about  death?" 


gredient  to  be  grief  that  the  man  was  gone  to 
whom  he  looked  moat  for  the  tranamiation  of 
his  doctrine*. 
9.    Coif rtrcios  TnmiOATaa  m§  great  grxsf 

fob  the  dbath  of  Hwut.    1,  BQ  is  the  krad 
wail  of  grief.  Moaning  with  tears  ig  called  ffi*. 

8.  =fc  A**$f  A'  'Thia  """^  Tbe  **** 
definition  of  |^  in  the  diet,  is  ^=J  Jjff  ^fff^ 
'a  term  of  definite  indication.' 


10.     CoHFUCIUS*   DISSATISFACTION  WITH   THE 
GBAND  WAT  IH  WHICH  HWUT   WAS  BUBIED.      1. 

The  old  interpreters  take  f^  ^  as  being  the 
disciples  of  Yen  Yuen.   This  is  not  natural, 


and  yet  we  can  hardly  understand  how  the 
disciples  of  Confucius  would  act  so  direct]/ 
contrary  to  his  express  wishes.  Conf.  objected 
to  a  grand  funeral  as  inconsistent  with  the 

poverty  of  the  family  (see  oh,  7).  8.  jjjB,  lit, 
*  regarded  me,'  but  that  term  would  hardly  suit 
the  next  clause,  db,  as  in  the  last  ch.  This 
pass.,  indeed,  is  cited  in  the  diet,  in  illustratm 
of  that  use  of  the  term.  ^  ^El "¥*»  8ee  ***• 
24. 

11.  C0KFUCIU8  AVOIDS  AB8WERIKO  QUSSTIO** 
ABOUT  SERVING  8PIKITS,  AHD  ABOUT  DEATH.  J^ 

Jjft  are  here  to  be  taken  together,  and  under* 
stood  of  the  spirits  of  the  dead.    This  appears 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


105 


4, 


id 


#&  0> 

Kit 

Chapter  XII.  1,  The  disciple  Min  was  standing  by  his  side, 
looking  bland  and  precise;  Tsze-loo,  looking  bold  and  soldierly;  Yen 
Yew  and  Tsze-kung,  with  a  free  and  straightforward  manner.  The 
Master  was  pleased, 

2.     He  said,  "  Yew  there !— he  will  not  die  a  natural  death," 

Chapter  XIII.  1,  Some  parties  in  Loo  were  going  to  take 
down  and  rebuild  the  Long  treasury, 

2.  Min  Tsze-k'een  said,  "  Suppose  it  were  to  be  repaired  after  its 
old  style;-— why  must  it  be  altered,  and  made  anew?' 

3.  The  Master  said,  "This  man  seldom  speaks;  wheu  he  does, 
he  is  sure  to  hit  the  point" 


^^  to  ft 

fgg  ~B5    'HI* 


from  Confucius  using  only  |^  ia  hi«  reply, 

and  from  the  opposition  between  ^  and  ^. 

^  is  man  alive,  while  Jj^  is  man  dead^-a  ghost, 
»  spirit.  Two  views  of  the  replies  are  found  in 
commentators.  The  older  ones  say— *  Confucius 
pat  off  Ke  Loo,  and  gave  him  no  answer,  because 
Spirits  and  death  are  obscure  and  unprofitable 
subject*  to  talk  about*  With  this  some  modern 

writers  agree,  as  the  author  of  the  §j|  Jfc  out 
Others,  and  the  majority,  say-™-' Confucius  an- 
swered the  disciple  profoundly,  and  showed 
him  how  he  should  prosecute  his  inquiries  in 
the  proper  order.  The  sendee  of  the  dead  must 
be  in  the  same  spirit  as  the  service  of  the  living. 
Obedience  and  sacrifice  are  equally  the  expres- 
sion of  the  filial  heart,  Death  is  only  the  natural 
.  termination  of  life,  We  are  born  with  certain 
rfiflf  and  principles,  which  carry  us  on  to  the 
«nd  of  our  coarse/  This  is  ingenious  refining, 
hot,  after  all,  Confucius  avoids  answering  the 
important  questions  proposed  to  him. 


12,  COKFUCIUS  HAPPT  WTTH  HJS  PJBCIPLIU 

ABOUT  HJ*.  He  wajws  TftffftrfcOO.  1-  ^  ^t 
like  ||.  «^p,  VL  3, 1.  ^,read&»v»l<>w.84 
tone.  %.  There  wanting  hete  the  -^p  0  a* 
the  commencement,  some  would  change  the  JB 
at  the  end  of  the  1st,  par.  into  Q,  to  supply  the 
blank,  5|k  r£  {^,— £f  is  used  wiOi  re» 
ference  to  the  appearance  and  manner  of  Tsze- 
ioo,  $$,  in  the  gj:  j^,  is  taken  as=the  final 
E.  Some  say  that  it  indicates  some  uncer- 
tainty as  to  the  prediction.  But  it  was  ▼erk 
fled;  see  on  Jl,  17, 

13,  W*8E  ADVICE  OP  MlH  8UH  AGAINST  USE* 

l,B*8  EXPBupjTpHB.  1.  ^|  ^  not  'the  pep* 
pie  of  I**),'  but  as  in  the  transl.,— certain  offi. 
cers,  disapprobation  of  whom  Js  indicated  by 
simply  calling  them  J^.   The  i uli  meaning  of 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


106 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£  *  »  H-0.  |«  ft  H.  Pi.  ft 


Chapter  XIV.  1.  The  Master  said,  "  What  has  the  harpsichord 
of  Yew  to  do  in  mv  door?" 

2.  The  other  disciples  began  not  to  respect  Tsze-loo.  The  Master 
said,  "  Yew  has  ascended  to  the  hall,  though  he  has  not  yet  passed 
into  the  inner  apartments." 

Chapter  X  V  1.  Tsze-kung  asked  which  of  the  two,  Sze  or  Shang, 
was  the  superior.  The  Master  said,  "Sze  goes  beyond  the  due  inearij 
and  Shang  does  not  come  up  to  it." 

2.  "Then,"  said  Tsze-kung,  "the  superiority  is  with  Sze,  I 
suppose." 

3.  The  Master  said,  "To  go  beyond  is  as  wrong  as  to  fall  short." 
Chapter  XVI.  1.     The  &ead  of  the  Ke  family  was  richer  than 

the  duke  of  Chow  had  been,  and  yet  K'ew  collected  his  imposts  for 
him,  and  increased  his  wealth. 

called  'the  scholar's  lute.'  See  the  Chinese 
Repository,  vol.  VHL  p.  38.  The  music  made 
by  Yew  was  more  martial  in  its  air  than  befit- 
ted the  peace-inculcating  school  of  the  sage. 
2.  This  contains  a  defence  of  Yew,  and  an  il- 
lustration of  his  real  attainments. 

15.  Comparison  of  Szk  and  Shaj?o.  Ex- 
cess  AND    DEFECT   EQUALLY   WROKO.      1.     @, 

hcre=Bfe,  *  to  overcome,*  'be  superior  to,'  be- 
ing interchanged  with  jfjT  in  par.  2.    We  find 

this  meaning  of  the  term  also  in  the  dictionary. 

16.  Confucius'  indignation  at  tub  support 
of  usurpation  and  extortioh  bt  one  of  his  dis- 
ciples. 1.  2pr  J^,  see  III.  1.  Many  illustra- 
tions might  be  collected  of  the  encroachments 
of  the  Ke  family,  and  its  great  wealth.  ^^ 

JK  jjj£,  'for  him  collected  and  ingatbered,' 
i.  e.,  all  his  imposts.  This  clause  and  the  next 
imply  that  K*ew  was  aiding  in  the  matter  of 
laying  imposts  on  the  people.    2.   'Beat  the 


4£  is  collected  from  the  rest  of  the  chapter. 

Bjf  is  *a  treasury/  as  distinguished  from  ^g', 

'a  granary,'  and  from  J§S,  'an  arsenal.'  'The 
Long  treasury'  was  the  name  of  the  one  in 
question.  2.  The  use  of  "Jf  is  perplexing. 
Choo  He  adopts  the  explanation  of  it  by  the 
old  comm.  as=S,  '  affair,'  but  with  what 
propriety  I  do  not  see.  The  character  means 
4 a  string  of  cowries,  or  cash,'  then  'to  thread 
together/  *to  connect.'  May  not  its  force  be 
here, — *  suppose  it  were  to  be  carried  on— con- 
tinued—as  before '  ?  8.  ^  as  in  ch.  9.  pfa ,  up. 

3d  tone,  a  verb, '  to  hit  the  mark,'  as  in  shoot- 
ing. 

14.  Confucids'  admonition  and  defence 
of  Tsze-loo.  1.  The  form  of  the  harpsichord 
seems  to  come  nearer  to  that  of  the  shih  than 

any  other  of  our  instruments.  The  Jf§  is  a 
kindred  instrument  with  the  5j£,  commonly 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


OOOTUCIAH  ANALECTS. 


107 


2*W 


=r 


Wffi^ 


m 


A 


ES  %  &  4£L  #' 

SI   ffc  £  ^o^ 


Al& 


W  IF 
#3 


2.     The  Master  said,  "He  is  no  disciple  of  mine.    My  little  chil- 
dren, beat  the  drum  and  assail  him." 
Chapter  XVII.  1.     Ch'ae  is  simple, 

2.  Sin  is  dull. 

3.  Sze  is  specious. 

4.  Yew  is  coarse. 

Chapter  XVIII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "There  is  Hwuy !  He  has 
nearly  attained  to  perfect  virtue.    He  is  often  in  want." 

2.  "  Tsze  does  not  acquiesce  in  the  appointments  of  Heaveny  and  his 
goods  are  increased  by  nim.     Yet  his  judgments  are  often  correct." 

Chapter  XIX.  Tsze-chang  asked  what  were  the  characteristics  of 
the  good  man.  The  Master  said,  "  He  does  not  tread  in  the  footsteps 
of  others,  but,  moreover,  he  does  not  enter  the  chamber  of  the  sage" 

preceding  as  one.  1.  JfflF,  here= jftf ,  'nearly/ 
to.'    It  is  often  found  with  J^.  follow- 


dram  and  ateail  him,*— -this  refers  to  the  practice 
of  executing  criminals  in  the  market  place,  and 
by  beat  of  drum  collecting  the  people  to  hear 
their  crimes.    Coram,  however,  say  that  the 


Master  only  required  the  disciples  here  to  tell 
K*ew  of  his  faults  and  recover  nim. 

17.  Characters  of  tub  four  disciples — 
Cr'ab,  8ih,  Szk,  AMD  Yxw.  It  is  supposed  a 
3E»  n  is  missing  from  the  beginning  of  this 

ch.  Admitting  this,  the  sentences  are  to  be 
translated  in  the  present  tense,  and  not  in  the 
past  which  would  be  required,  if  the  chap,  were 
simply  the  record  of  the  compilers.  1.  Ch'ae,  by 

surname  p£,  and  styled  -^  ^¥i  (of  ^&  there 
are  several  aliases),  has  his  tablet  now  the  5th 
west,  in  the  outer  court  of  the  temples.  He 
was  small  and  ugly,  but  distinguished  for  his 
sincerity,  filial  piety,  and  justice.  Such  was 
the  conviction  of  his  impartial  justice,  that  in 
a  time  of  peril  he  was  saved  by  a  man,  whom 
he  had  formerly  punished  with  cutting  off  his 

feet.    3.  Jffe  read  p'eik,  is  defined  in  the  diet, 

— 'practising  airs  with  little  sincerity.' — Con- 
fucius certainly  does  not  here  flatter  his  fol- 
lowers. 

18.  Hwmr  axd  Tsze  contrasted.  In  Ho 
An's  compilation,  this  ch.  is  joined  with  the 


ing,  both  terms  together  beingasour  'nearly.* 
To  make  out  a  meaning,  the  old  comm.  supply 

qB  jf!, '  the  way  or  doctrines  of  the  sages,9 
and  the  modern  supply  jS*,  'the  truth  and 

right.'  jjt,  up.  8d  tone, '  emptied,'  u  e^  brought 

to  extremity,  poor,  distressed.  Hwuy's  being 
brought  often  to  this  state  is  mentioned  mere- 
ly as  an  additional  circumstance  about  him,  in- 
tended to  show  that  he  was  happy  in  his  deep 
poverty.  Ho  An  preserves  the  comment  of  some 
one,  which  is  worth  giving  here,  and  ace  to 

which,  ^jjjt^lj?  ft*'  'empty— hearted,'  free 

from  all  vanities  and  ambitions.    Then  JS*=* 

'always.'    In  this  sense  HI  jtL  was  the 

formative  element  of  Hwuy's  character.  2.  $3>> 

'  to  receive,'  here='  to  acquiesce  in.*  '{&==BSF> 
'  to  form  a  judgment.' 
19.    The  good  man.  Comp.  VH  25.  By  ££ 

^  Choo  He  understands— J|  $fe  ffi)  ^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


10ft 


CUSVUCiAK  AS ALSCm* 


^  ft  B>£o# 


m 

m 
TO 


Chapter  XX.  The  Master  said,  "If,  because  a  manf8  discourse 
appears  solid  and  sincere,  we  allow  him  to  be  a  good  nuaij  is  hertf/fy 
a  superior  man?  or  is  his  gravity  only  in  appearance?91 
+  Chapter  XXI.  Tsze-loo  asked  whether  he  should  immediately 
Carry  into  practice  what  he  heard.  The  Master  said,  "There  arc 
your  father  and  elder  brothers  to  be  consulted?— why  shotild  you 
act  on  that  principle  of  immediately  carrying  into  practice  what  you 
hear?"  Yen  Yew  asked  the  same,  whether  he  should  immediately 
carry  into  practice  what  he  heard,  and  the  Master  answered,  "Imme- 
diately carry  into  practice  what  you  hear,"  Kung-se  Hwa  said, 
"Yew  asked  whether  he  should  carry  immediately  into  practice 
what  he  heard,  and  you  said,  i  There  are  your  father  and  elder 
brothers  to  be  consulted'  K'ew  asked  whether  he  should  immediately 
carry  into  practice  what  he  heard,  and  you  said, 4  Carry  it  immediately 
into  practice/  I,  ChHh,  am  perplexed,  and  venture  to  ask  you  fof 
an  explanation."  The  Master  said,  "  K'ew  is  retiring  and  slow ;  there 
fore,  I  urged  him  forward.  Yew  has  more  than  his  own  ahare  of 
energy;  therefore,  I  kept  him  back." 


•ft  5§\  'one  of  flue  natural  capacity,  foft 
Who  hat  not  learned.'  Such  a  man  will  in  many 
things  be  a  law  to  himself,  and  needs  not  to 
follow  in  the  wake  of  others,  but  after  all  his 
£rogress  will  be  limited.    The  text  is  rather 

enigmatical    ^  ^jt.  comp.  ch.  14,  2. 

20.  We  mat  iot  hastily  judos  a  ma  It  to  bb 

good  fbom  Hts  DttCovBSB.  ffij  is  here '  speech/ 

4  conversation.'  In  Ho  An,  this  ch*  is  joined 
to  the  preceding  one,  and  is  said  to  give  addi- 
tional characteristics  of  'the  good  man,*  men* 
tioned  on  a  diff.  occasion. — The  construction, 
however,  on  that  view  is  ail  but  inextricable. 

21.  All    UtBTAXVE    IM    TSWLOO    AMD    YSJT 


Yew  or  how  Cohfucius  dbai/p  wtth  ■»  «* 

CIPLBS  ACCORDING  TO  THEIB  CHABACTEBft.    V* 

Tsze-loo's  question,  comp.  V.  18.  fflfff  ft 
Ig,  'Hearing  this  (^anything),  shoBld I  do  il 
at  owaornot?'    ff^^ff^^13* 

by  Choo  He  with  Jgfe,  4to  overcome,'  'to  •» 
superior  to.*  But  we  can  well  take  h  in  jjj 
radical  signification  of  'to  unite,*  m»1T 
grasps  two  sheaves  of  corn.  The  tfcrsn Ji 
equivalent  to  our  English  one  in  ^\^"r 
Similarly,  the  be»t  pure  goldiicalkd  %% 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COKKJCIAN  ANALECTS* 


109 


FTFI 


*   RUB    ft 

IN  0f*f  # 

ihff  ft  $, 

ftg£if 

Chapter  XXtt*  The  Master  was  put  in  fear  in  KVang  and 
Fen  Yuen  fell  behind  The  Master,  on  his  rejoining  him,  said,  "  I 
bought  you  had  died."  Hvmy  replied,  "While  you  were  alive,  how 
(hould  I  presume  to  die?* 

Chapter  XXIII.  L  Ke  Tsze-jen  asked  whether  Chung-yew  and 
iTen  K*ew  could  be  called  great  ministers. 

2.  The  Master  said,  w  I  thought  you  would  ask  about  some  ex- 
Taordinary  individuals,  and  you  only  ask  about  Yew  and  KSew ! 

3.  "  What  is  called  a  great  minister,  is  one  who  serves  his  prince  ac- 
cording to  what  is  right,  and  when  he  finds  he  cannot  do  so>  retires. 


Cf 


22.   Y«m  Yttsn's  attachm«kt  to  Cohfvcitjb, 

tfD  CONFIDENCE   IN   HI8   MISSION.      See   IX.    6. 

f  H way's  answer  was  anything  more  than  plea- 
antry,  we  must  pronounce  it  foolish.  The 
omm.,  however,  expand  it  thus* — 'I  knew  that 
ou  would  not  perish  in  this  danger,  and  there- 
K*  I  would  not  rashly  expose  my  own  life, 
M  preserved  it  rather,  that  I  might  continue 
o enjoy  the  benefit  of  your  instructions'  If 
re  inquire  how  Hwuy  knew  that  Conf.  would 
»t  perish,  We  are  informed  that  he  shared  his 
outer's  assurance  that  he  had  a  divine  mission. 
-See  VH.  22,  IX.  5. 

2&      A   GREAT    MINISTER.    ClIUNG-YEW   AND 
fa  K*EW    ONLY    ORDINARY   MINISTERS.       The 

***phrasts  sum  up  the  contents  thus : — 'Conf. 
^presses  the  boastinfc  of  Ke  Tsze-jen,  and  in- 
ucates  an  acquaintance  with  his  traitorous 
Eposes.*  l.  Ke  Tsze-jen  was  a  younger  brother 

*fe  Hwaa,  who  w«  the  2|g  J^  of  EL  1. 


Having  an  ambitious  purpose  on  the  dukedom 
of  Loo,  he  was  increasing  his  officers,  and  having 
got  the  two  disciples  to  enter  his  service,  he 
boastingly  speaks  to  Conf.  about  them.     2. 

3^  Jjjj[  -^  ^-,  lit,  'I  supposed  you  were 
making  a  question  of  (•about)  extraordinary 
men,  and  lo !  it  is  a  question  about  Tew  and 

K'ew.'  "8*=73r » ite  force  is  rather  diff.  from 
what  it  has  in  II*  8>  but  is  much  akin  to  that  in 

m-6-  *•  A  El  *  exPUined  Hi  El  ifc 

fj'p  p.,  'simply  fitted  to  rank  among  the  num- 
ber of  officers.'  ML  often  means  what  is  merely 
'official/  J^.  jfc,  ca*  official  paper.'  J^ 
ff ,  'mere  officials.'  e\  ^supposes  an  anteoe* 
de*t,**ch  m  dfe  "their  master.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


110 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


4.  "Now,  as  to  Yew  and  K'ew,  they  may  be  called  ordinary 
ministers." 

5.  Tsze-jen  said,  "Then  they  will  always  follow  their  chief; — 
will  they?" 

6.  The  Master  said,  "  In  an  act  of  parricide  or  regicide,  they 
would  not  follow  him." 

Chapter  XXIV.  1.  Tsze-loo  got  Tsze-kaou  appointed  governor 
of  Pe. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "You  are  injuring  a  man's  son." 

3.  Tsze-loo  said,  "There  are  (there)  common  people  and  officers; 
there  are  the  altars  of  the  spirits  of  the  land  and  grain.  Why 
must  one  read  books  before  he  can  be  considered  to  have  learned  V 

4.  The  Master  said,  "  It  is  on  this  account  that  I  hate  your  glib- 
tongued  people." 

Chapter  AXV.  1.  Tsze-loo,  Tsfcng  Sih,  Yen  Yew,  and  Kung-se 
Hwa,  were  sitting  by  the  Master. 

2.  He  said  to  them,  "Though  I  am  a  day  or  so  older  than  you, 
don't  think  of  that. 


24.     HOW  PRILMINART  STUDY  18  NECESSARY 
TO  THB  EXERCISE  OF  GOVERNMENT : — A  REPROOF 

of  Tsze-loo.    1.  J©, — see  VI.  7.  This  com- 

mandsntship  is  probably  what  Min  Sun  there 
refused.  Tsze-loo  had  entered  into  the  service 
of  the  Ke  family  (see  last  ch.),  and  recommended 

(uh)  Tsze-kaou  as  likely  to  keep  the  turbulent 

Pe  in  order,  thereby  withdrawing  him  from  his 

studies  with  the  Master.    2.  jfof,  in  the  sense 

of  $&,  (to  injure.*    d<£  as  in  ch.  9,  3.    It 

qualifies  the  whole  phrase  J^  j£  <-3~,  and  is 


not  to  be  joined  only  with  k.  By  denomina- 
ting Tsze-kaou — ( a  man's  son,'  Conf.  intimates, 
I  suppose,  that  the  father  was  injured  as  welL 
His  son  ought  not  to  be  so  dealt  with,  3.  The 
absurd  defence  of  Tsze-loo.  It  is  to  this  effect: 
— 'The  whole  duty  of  man  is  in  treating  other 
men  right,  and  rendering  what  is  due  to  spiritual 
beings,  and  it  may  be  learned  practically  with- 
out the  study  you  require.'  4.  ^&  j££,  *ou 
this  account,'  with  reference  to  Tsze-loo's  reply. 
25  The  aims  of  Tsze-loo,  Tsang  Sih, 
Yen  Yew,  and  Kuno-se  Hwa,  and  Confucius* 
BfiMAjHES  about  TU&4    Comp.  Y.  7. 25.  LTbe 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COSFDCIAN  ANALECTS. 


Ill 


#,2 


mint 
>zm 


b.  Bl'  JUJ 


q 


3.  "  From  day  to  day  you  are  saying,  '  We  are  not  known.'  If 
some  prince  were  to  know  you,  what  would  you  do?" 

4.  Tsze-loo  hastily  and  lightly  replied,  "  Suppose  the  case  of  a 
state  of  ten  thousand  chariots ;  let  it  be  straitened  between  other 
large  states;  let  it  be  suffering  from  invading  armies;  and  to  this  let 
there  be  added  a  famine  in  corn  and  in  all  vegetables : — if  I  were 
intrusted  with  the  government  of  it,  in  three  years'  time  I  could  make 
the  people  to  be  bold,  and  to  recognize  the  rules  of  righteous  con- 
duct."   The  Master  smiled  at  him. 

5.  Turning  to  Yen  Yew,  he  said,  "K'ew,  what  are  your  wishes?" 
Kleto  replied,  "  Suppose  a  state  of  sixty  or  seventy  le  square,  or  one 
of  fifty  or  sixty,  and  let  me  have  the  government  of  it ; — in  three 
years'  time,  I  could  make  plenty  to  abound  among  the  people.  As 
to  teaching  them  the  principles  of  propriety,  and  music,  I  must  wait 
for  the  rise  of  a  superior  man  to  do  that" 

disciples  mentioned  here  are  all  familiar  to  us 
excepting  Tsang  Sih.  He  was  the  father  of 
the  more  celebrated  Ts&ng  Sin,  and  himself  by 

name  Teen  (96).    The  four  are  mentioned  in 

the  order  of  their  age,  and  Teen  would  have 
answered  immediately  after  Tsze-loo,  but  that 
Conf.  passed  him  by,  as  he  was  occupied  with 

his  harpsichord.    2.  JP^,  up  2d  tone,  '  senior.1 

Many  understand  fit  j£,  'ye,'  as  nom.  to  the 

first  jgj[f  but  it  is  better  with  Choo  He  to  take 

J#=gj§,  'although.'  —  fj,  'one  day,' 
would  seem  to  indicate  the  importance  which 
tbe  disciples  attached  to  the  seniority  of  their 


Master,  and  his  wish  that  they  should  at- 
tach no  importance  to  it.  In  tyft  3£  IM  Jk 
we  have  a  not  uncommon  inversion.  It  =» 
fyl  liX  ^  ^sj  ^j|» <don,t  consider  me  to 
be  your  senior.'  8.  jg  =ip  J§*£  B$»  <the 
level,  ordinary,  course  of  your  lives.'    4S  W[ 

M=tt  Vk  %  ffl  &  '*» wnld  y°* 

consider  to  be  your  use  ?'  u  «.,  what  course  of 
action  would  you  pursue?  4.  2S£  tjf,  an  adv., 

—'hastily.'  ^,  ace  to  Choo  He, 

ace.  to  Paou  Ileen, 


jQ,  'straitened,'  'urged.' 

Digitized  by  CjOOQIC 


US 


oohtuciak  analects. 


mftxSfBMM  +  m 
nMn&tt  %?&  mm 


mnxM&Tm>wm># 


6.  "  What  are  your  wishes,  Ch^h,"  said  the  Master  next  to  Kung^&s 
Hwa.  Ch'ih  replied,  "  I  do  not  say  that  my  ability  extends  to  these 
things,  but  I  should  wish  to  learn  them.  At  the  services  of  the 
ancestral  temple,  and  at  the  audiences  of  the  Princes  with  the  Em- 
peror, I  should  like,  dressed  in  the  dark  squaremade  robe  and 
the  black  linen  cap,  to  act  as  a  small  assistant 

7.  Last  of  all,  the  Master  asked  Psang  Sih,  "Teen,  what  are  your 
wishes?"  Teen,  pausing  as  he  was  playing  on  his  harpsichord, 
while  it  was  yet  twanging,  laid  the  instrument  aside,  and  rose. 
"My  wishes,"  he  said,  "are  different  from  the  cherished  purposes  of 
these  three  gentlemen."  "What  harm  is  there  in  that?"  said  the 
Master;  "do  you  also,  as  well  as  they,  speak  out  your  wishes,"  Teen 
then  said,  "  In  this,  the  last  month  of  spring,  with  the  dress  of  the 
season  all  complete,  along  with  five  or  six  young  men  who  have 
assumed  the  cap,  and  six  or  seven  boys,  I  would  wash  in  the  E, 
enjoy  the  breeze  among  the  rain-altars,  and  return  home  singing,* 
The  Master  heaved  a  sigh  and  said,  "  I  give  my  approval  to  Teen." 

In  the  Chow  Le,  500  men  make  a  £j£,  and  5  £j£, 
or  2,500  men,  make  a  ffifi.  The  two  terms  to- 
gether have  here  the  meaning  given  in  the  traniL 
^  ;£,  'managed  it.'    J^J,  lower  3d  tone, 

Wends  its  force  with  the  foiL  2fc.  ^D$j> 
'toward*,'  ^Jf  "^,  'know  the  quarter  to 
which  to  turn,  the  way  in  which  to  go.'  5.  At 
the  beginning  of  this  paragraph  and  the  two  fol- 
lowing, we  most  supply  <^~  Q.  £H«  jj£, 


'or.'  6.  &£,-;£«*«  to  the  jfc% 
in  p.  6.  &  is  the  name  for  occasional  or  ft*> 
cidental  interviews  of  the  princes  with  the  em- 
peror, what  are  called  g£  §f .  B  belongs  to 
occasions  when  they  all  presented  themselves 
together  at  court.    The  j&,  (and  Iran  to 

colour  called  j£  jj&\  was  a  robe  of  cer> 
mony,  so  called  from  its  strmgkt  make*  Hi 
component  parts  having  no  gathers  nor  statin; 

cuttings.   jj£  "fH*  was  the  name  of  a  cap  d 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS?. 


US 


%  m  &  *  mw  0-t  m 

*  H.#  5.  Pi  ft  E  fa  #> 

8.  The  three  others  having  gone  out,  Tsfcng  Sih  remained  behind, 
and  said,  "  What  do  you  think  of  the  words  of  these  three  friends  ?" 
The  Master  replied,  "  They  simply  told  each  one  his  wishes." 

9.  Teen  pursued,  "Master,  why  did  you  smile  at  Yew?" 

10.  He  was  answered,  "  The  management  of  a  state  demands  the 
rules  of  propriety.  Hi*  word*  were  not  bumble ;  therefore  I  smiled 
at  him." 

11.  Teen  again  said,  "But  was  it  not  a  state  which  K'ew  proposed 
for  himself?"  The  reply  was,  u  Yes;  did  you  ever  see  a  territory  of 
sixty  or  seventy  le,  or  one  of  fifty  or  sixty,  which  was  not  a  state?" 

12.  Once  more,  Teen  inquired,  "And  was  it  not  a  state  which 
CVih  proposed  for  himself?"  The  Master  again  replied,  "  Yes;  who 
but  princes  have  to  do  with  ancestral  temples,  and  audiences  with 
the  Emperor?  If  Ch4ih  were  to  be  a  small  assistant  in  these  services^ 
who  could  be  a  great  one?" 

ceremony,  It  had  Afferent  names  under  dif- 
ferent dynasties,  m  means  a  xav.  The  cap 
*u  to  named,  at  'displaying  the  MJp,'  7. 
fll  "jt  *  pawing,*  'stopping.'  So,  in  the  diet, 
|J,  an  adv.,  expressing  the  twanging  sound  of 
the  instrument  J£,  need  moo,  low,  9d  tone,  the 
nme  as  S,  'sunset,* ' the  close  of  a  period  of 

***•'  7C£  (apu  **  ***)  ^f"'  'capped  men/ 
Capping  was  in  China  a  custom  similar  to  the 
assuming  the  toga  virilis  among  the  Romans. 

It  took  place  at  20.  •#£  is  no*  'to  bathe,' but  is 
Wed  with  reference  to  some  custom  of  washing 
*e  Rands  and  clothes  at  some  stream  in  the  3d 


was 


month,  to  put  away  eril  influences, 
the  name  of  a  sacrifice,  accompanied  with  pray* 
er,  for  rain*  Dancing  movements  were  em* 
ployed  at  i^  hence  the  name-r^^p.  H.^§* 
^  Q  is  to  be  supplied  before  p||,  and  -¥* 
£J  before  j£.  Similar  supplements  must  bo 
made  in  the  next  paragraph. — It  does  not  appear 
whether  Teen,  even  at  the  last,  understood  why 
Coqf.  had  laughed  at  Tsze-loo,  and  not  at  the 
others.  '  It  was  not,*  say  the  comran'  *  because 
Tsze-loo  was  extravagant  in  his  aims.  They 
were  all  thinking  of  great  things,  yet  not  greater 
than  they  were  able  for.  Tsze-loo's  fault  wss  in 
the  levity  with  which  he  had  proclaimed  his 
wishes.    That  was  his  offence  against  propriety? 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


114 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS^ 


BOOK  XII.  YEN  YUEN. 


Chapter  I.  1.  Yen  Yuen  asked  about  perfect  virtue.  The 
Master  said,  "To  subdue  one's-self  and  return  to  propriety,  is  perfect 
virtue.  If  a  man  can  for  one  day  subdue  himself  and  return  to  pro- 
priety, all  under  heaven  will  ascribe  perfect  virtue  to  him.  Is  the 
practice  of  perfect  virtue  from  a  man  nimself,  or  is  it  from  others?" 

2.  Yen  Yuen  said,  "  I  beg  to  ask  the  steps  of  that  process."  The 
Master  replied,  "  Look  not  at  what  is  contrary  to  propriety  ;  listen 
not  to  what  is  contrary  to  propriety ;  speak  not  what  is  contrary  to 
propriety ;  make  no  movement  which  is  contrary  to  propriety."  Yen 
Yuen  then  said,  "Though  I  am  deficient  in  intelligence  and  vigour, 
I  will  make  it  my  business  to  practise  this  lesson." 

is  not  exactly  selfishness,  but  selfishness  is 
what  abides  by  being  attached  to  the  body,  and 
hence  it  is  said  that  selfishness  is  Q.'    And 

*Q  *£#&&><£ flu** 

subduing  and  putting  away  the  self,  but  sub- 
duing and  putting  away  the  selfish  desires  » 
the  set/:  This  *  selfishness  in  the  self '  is  of  a 
three-fold  character:— first,  £§  Ipfr  said  by 
Morrison  to  be  *  a  person's  natural  constitution 
and  disposition  of  mind :'  it  is,  I  think,  very  mack 
the  ^*&M»f  «^vT«f  or  *  animal  man  f  second, 

J%>  U>  P'^^^fc  *the  *****  <**> 
ears,  the  eyes,  the  mouth,  the  nose  f  i.*^the 
dominating  influences  of  the  senses;  aad  third, 
J$|  ^,  'Thou  and  I,'  L  ^  the  Inst  of  sape- 


Headino  of  this  Book.— |g  j£j|  £j|p  "j" 
JH,  'The  twelfth  Book,  beginning  with  Ten 
It  contains  24  chapters,    conveying 


Yuen.' 


lessons  on  perfect  virtue,  government,  and  other 
f  aestions  of  morality  and  policy,  addressed  in 
conversation  by  Confucius  chiefly  to  his  dis- 
ciples. The  different  answers,  given  about  the 
same  subject  to  different  questioners,  show  well 
how  the  sage  suited  his  instructions  to  the 
characters  and  capacities  of  the  parties  with 
whom  he  had  to  do. 

1.      HOW  TO   ATTAIN  TO  PERFECT   VTRTITE : — A 

conversation  with  Yen  Yuen.  1.  In  Ho  An, 
^  g,  is  explained  by  $}  J|p,  « to  restrain 
the  body.1  Choo  He  defines  "jljf  by  ffife,  '  to 
overcome,'  and  Q  by  Jjp  £  ^  ^,  « the 
selfish  desires  of  the  body.'    In  the  <£►  |SL  it 


riority.    More  concisely,  tlu? 

Digitized  by  VaOO 


iseaid3inUw 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


115 


%  4^  IS  SI  M  ft  %  to  to  83 


Chapter  II.  Chung-kung  asked  about  perfect  virtue.  The  Mas- 
ter said,  "It  m,  when  you  go  abroad,  to  behave  to  every  one  as  if  you 
were  receiving  a  great  guest ;  to  employ  the  people  as  if  you  were 
assisting  at  a  great  sacrifice ;  not  to  do  to  others  as  you  would  not 
wish  done  to  yourself;  to  have  no  murmuring  against  you  in  the 
country,  and  none  in  the  family."  Chung-kung  said,  "Though  I 
am  dehcient  in  intelligence  and  vigour,  I  will  make  it  my  business 
to  practise  this  lesson. 

Chapter  IIL  1.     Sze-ma  New  asked  about  perfect  virtue. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "The  man  of  perfect  virtue  is  cautious  and 
slow  in  his  speech." 


m 


||T,  to  be  the   A  f(^S  as  opposed  to  the 
jQ, ( the  mind  of  man '  in  opposition  to  the 


'mind  of  reason.'  See  the  Shoo»king  IX  ii.  9. 
This    refractory  'mind  of   man,'  it  is  said, 

||3.  /Jt  (||.  it,  *is  innate,'  or,  perhaps,  'con- 
nate.' In  all  these  statements,  there  is  an  ac- 
knowledgment of  the  fact — the  moral  \y  abnormal 
condition  of  human  nature — which  underlies  the 
Christian  doctrine  of  original  sin.  With  ref.  to 
the  above  three-fold  classification  of  selfish 
desires,  the  second  par.  shows  that  it  was  the 
second  order  of  them— the  influence  of  the 

senses,  which  Conf.  specially  intended.  ** 


note  on  jjjB,  VIII.  2.  It  is  not  here 
eertmmies.  Choo  He  defines  it—  ^j|!^'j|ff 
yTj  *  the  specific  divisions  and  graces  of  hea- 
venly principle  or  reason.'  This  is  continually 
being  departed  from,  on  the  impulse  of  selfish- 
ness, but  there  is  an  ideal  of  it  as  proper  to  man, 
which  is  to  be  sought— 'returned  to — by  over- 
coming that.  S|  is  explained  by  Choo  He  by 
£|,  'to  allow.'  The  gloss  of  the  jjfc  -j=f  is— 

3ff|  itfc  fc,  'will  praise  his  perfect  virtue,' 
The  whole  sentence  thus  seems  to  become  a 
mere  platitude.  Perhaps  ^  ~K  is  only* 
oar  « every  body,'  or  'any  body.'  In  Ho  An, 
kv*  is  taken  in  the  sense  of  'to  return,'— 


'the  empire  will  return  to  perfect  virtue,'  sup* 
posing  the  exemplifier  to  be  a  prince.  In  the 
next  sentence,  which  is  designed  to  teach  that 
every  man  may  attain  to  this  virtue  for  himself, 

jfij=<or.'    ^^refersto^a^lS- 

g=$$  g, 'a list' or 'index.'    ^  is  used 

as  an  active  verb; — '  I  beg  to  make  my  business 
these  words.' 
2.    Whkrkih  perfect  virtue  is  realized: 

— A   CONVERSATION    WITH   CuUNO-KUNO.      From 

this  ch.,  it  appears  that  reverence  (8j£)  and  re- 
ciprocity (^jffl),  on  the  largest  scale,  are  perfect 
virtue.    jSB  jjj, — '  ordering  the  people,'  is  apt 

to  be  done  with  haughtiness.  This  part  of  the 
answer  may  be  compared  with  the  apostle's 
precept — '  Honour  all  men,'  only  the  '  all  men  * 

is  much  more  comprehensive  there.  F*  fin*7T 

^.,-comp.  V.  11.  :£^;£^,='abroad7 
'at  home.'  Paou  Heen,  in  Ho  An,  however, 
takes  the  former  as  denoting  the  '  prince  of  a 
state,'  and  the  laL, '  the  chief  of  a  great  offcer'a 

establishment.'    This  is  like  the  interpr.  of  S|f 

in  last  ch. — The  answer,  the  same  as  that  of 
Hwuy  in  last  ch,,  seems  to  betray  the  hand  of 
the  compiler. 

3.  Caution  in  speaking  a  characteristic 
of  perfect  virtue: — a  conversation  with 
Tsze-mew.    1.  Tsze-new  was  the  designation  or 

Sze-ma  Kang  (jjgtf*,  aim  ^jfi),  whose  tablet  is 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


116 


coKfucian  analects. 


OJ'^C  ^1  5  It    *i 


fa 


"CfLUttous  ftnd  slow  in  his  speech !"  said  New;-~-"is  this  what 
is  ttieatit  by  perfect  virtue?"  The  Master  said,  "When  a  man  feels 
the  difficulty  of  doing,  can  he  be  other  than  cautious  and  slow  in 
speaking?" 

Chapteb  IV.  1.  Sze*ma  New  asked  about  the  superior  num. 
tthe  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  has  neither  anxiety  nor  fear." 

2.  "Being  without  anxiety  or  fear!"  said  New ;— "does  this 
constitute  what  we  call  the  superior  man  ?  " 

3.  The  Master  said,  "  When  internal  examination  discovers  no- 
thing wrong,  what  is  there  to  be  anxious  about,  what  is  there  to 
fear?" 

Chapter  V.  1.  Sze-ma  New,  full  of  anxiety,  said,  "  Other  men 
all  have  their  brothers,  I  only  have  not." 

2.  Tsze-hea  said  to  him,  "There  is  the  following  saying  which  1 
have  heard :— • 

now  the  7th  east  in  the  outer  muses  of  the  dis- 
ciples, lie  belonged  to  Sung,  ana  was  a  brother 
of  11  wan  T*uy,  VlL  22.  Their  ordinary  surname 
was  Heang  ( |tyj ),  but  that  of  Hwan  could  also  be 
Used  by  them>  as  thej  were  descended  from  the 
duke  so  called*    The  office  of  <  Matter  of  the 

bora'  (  fjj  JJ|)  had  long  been  in  the  family, 
and  that  title  appears  here  as  if  it  were  New's 
surname.    2.  g^^W  |g|  Mj,  'the  Word! 

coming  forth  with  difficulty/    8.  ^§J  £t  W 

^,— comp.  on  ^  in  the  note  on  Vll.  10,  d  at 

— '  Doing  being  difficult,  cart  speaking  be  with* 
out  difficulty  of  utterance*' 

4.  How  thb  Kbun-tssb  has  nbithbr  an- 

XIBTY    NOB    FEAR,    AND    CONSCIOUS     RBCTITUDB 

fbbbs  from  TufisB.  1.  3§  is  ottr  'anxiety,' 
trouble  about  coming  troubles ;  f||  is  '  fear/ 
when  the  troubles  have  arrived.    2.  Jj^T,  is  'a 


chronic  illness  f  here  it  is  understood  with  ref« 
to  the  mind,  that  displaying  no  symptom  of 
disease. 
5.    Consolation  ofpbbed  by  Tszb-hbjl  to 

Ts£B-KBW   ANXIOUS    ABOUT  THE    PERIL   OF    HIS 

broth kb.  1 .  Tszc-new's  anxiety  was  occasioned 
by  the  conduct  of  Ills  eldest  brother  HwaiiT*uy,* 
who,  he  knew,  Was    contemplating    rebellion, 

which  would  probably  lead  to  his  death.  & 
^,  'elder  brothers'  and  'younger  brothers,' 

but  Tsse-new  was  himself  the  youngest  of  his  fa- 
mily i  The  phrase  simply**'  brothers/  'All  hare 
their  brothers,'— »i»  «*,  all  can  rest  quietly  with- 
out anxiety  in  their  relation.  2.  It  is  naturally 
supposed  that  the  author  of  the  observation  was 
Conf.  4.  The  J^  gj:  says  that  the  expr :— « all 
within  the  four  sefls  are  brothers,'  >f*ljMj& 

^  ob>  * doeB  n0t  mean  tIlat  "M  under  heaven 
have  the  same  genealogical  register.'    Choo  He's 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COXtfUCtAN  ANALECTS. 


117 


£ 


ft  U  3S  B, 


fa***.- 


3.  "4  Death  and  life  have  their  determined  appointment;  riches 
and  honours  depend  upon  Heaven.* 

4.  "  Let  the  superior  man  never  fail  reverentially  to  order  his 
own  conduct,  and  let  him  be  respectftil  to  others  ana  observant  of 

{>ropriety : — then  all  within  the  four  seas  will  be  his  brothers.     What 
las  the  superior  man  to  do  with  being  distressed  because  he  has  no 
brothers?'1 

Chafter  VL  Tsze-chang  asked  what  constituted  intelligence. 
The  Master  said>  u  He  with  whom  neither  slander  that  gradually 
soaks  into  the  mind}  nor  statements  that  startle  like  a  wound  in  the 
flesh,  are  successful,  may  be  called  intelligent  indeed.  Yea,  he  with 
whom  neither  soaking  slander,  nor  startling  statements,  are  success- 
ful, may  be  called  far-seeing." 


interpr.  Is  that,  when  a  man  so  acts,  other  men 
trill  love  and  respect  him  as  a  brother.  This,  no 
doobt,  is  the  eztentof  the  saying.  I  have  found  no 
satisfactory  gloss  on  the  phrase — *the  four  seas.' 
It  is  found  in  the  Shoe-king,  the  She-king,  snd 

theLe-ke.   In  the  B  flttj,  a  sort  of  Lexicon, 

very  ancient,  which  was  once  reckoned  among 
the  king,  it  is  explained  as  a  territorial  desig- 
nation, the  name  of  the  dwelling-place  of  all 
the  barbarous  tribes.  But  the  great  Tu  is 
represented  as  having  made  the  four  seas  as 
four  ditches,  to  which  he  drained  the  waters 
inundating  '  the  middle  kingdom.'  Plainly,  the 
ancient  conception  was  of  their  own  country  as 
the  great  habitable  tract,  north,  south,  east,  and 
west  of  which  were  four  seas  or  oceans,  be- 
tween whose  shores  and  their  own  borders  the  in- 
tervening space  was  not  very  great,  and  occu- 
pied ty  wild  hordes  of  inferior  races.    See  the 

. — Comm.  con- 
attempt  at  consolation  altoge* 
thef  wide  of  the  mat*. 


ptea  oy  wuu  noracs  oi  interior  n 
aider  Tsze-hea's  attempt  at  Cons< 


6.  What  constitutes  intelligence  : — ad- 
dressed to  Tbze-cii\ng.  Tsze-chang,  it  is 
said,  was  always  seeking  to  be  wise  about  things 
lofty  and  distant,  and  therefore  Conf.  brings 
him  back  to  things  near  at  hand,  which  it  was 

more  necessary  for  him  to  attend  to.  JGlj  jpH 
j£  §8 , '  soaking,  moistening,  slander/  which 
un perceived  sinks  into  the  mind.  Jm  *&£ 
ttB  (stand  interchanged  with  §£),  *  statements 

ofwrongs  which  startle  like  a  wound  in  the 
flesh,'  to  which  in  the  surprise  credence  is  given. 

He  with  whom  these  things  yK  ^r,— are  'no 
go,'  is  intelligent,— yea,  far-seeing.  jfl=f)JJ 
^  i|S  So,  Choo  lie.    The  old  interpr.  differ 

in  their  vlewo*  J% $££$.   The  j§£jfig 

says — <The  skin  receives  dust  which  gradually 
accumulates.'  This  makes  the  phrase  synony* 
moid  with  the  former. 

Digitized  by  VjUOv  IC 


118 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


Ii  f£  B>]§ 


tf  J«  *  &  9r  0,  #  *  ft  "" 


Chapter  VII.  1.  Tsze-kung  asked  about  government.  The  Mas- 
ter said,  u  The  requisites  of  government  are  that  there  be  sufficiency 
of  food,  sufficiency  of  military  equipment,  and  the  confidence  of  the 
people  in  their  ruler." 

2.  Tszerkung  said,  "If  it  cannot  be  helped,  and  one  of  these 
must  be  dispensed  with,  which  of  the  three  should  be  foregone  first?" 
"  The  military  equipment,"  said  the  Master. 

3.  Tsae-kung  again  asked,  "  If  it  cannot  be  helped,  and  one  of 
the  remaining  two  must  be  dispensed  with,  which  of  them  should 
be  foregone?'  The  Master  answered,  "Part  with  the  food.  From 
of  old,  death  has  been  the  lot  of  all  men ;  but  if  the  people  have 
no  faith  in  their  rulers,  there  is  no  standing  for  the  state. 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  Kih  Tsze-shing  said,  "In  a  superior  man  it 
is  only  the  substantial  qualities  which  are  wanted; — why  should  we 
seek  for  ornamental  accomplishments?" 

7.    Requisites  in  government: — a  oonveb- 

eation  with  Tsze-chanq.    1.   Jfe  primarily 

means '  weapon*.'  '  A  soldier,*  the  bearer  of  such 
weapons,  is  a  secondary  meaning.  There  were 
no  standing  armies  in  Couf.  time.  The  term 
is  to  be  taken  here,  ass' military  equipment,' 

•preparation  for  war/  ^g|  ><£>"~>S  refew 
to  ^  J^f  'their  ruler.'  8.  The  difficulty 
here  is  with  the  concluding  clause  flfc  >fg| 
yj\  jj£.  Transferring  the  mean,  of  4g  from 
par.  1,  we  naturally  render  as  in  the  transl.,  and 

sfi  jfc—H  ~jfc  it* <tne  8tate  ^  n°t 

stand.'  This  is  the  view,  moreover,  of  the  old 
interpreters.  Choo  He  and  his  followers,  how- 
ever, seek  to  make  much  more  of  4j=|.    On  the 

1st  par.  he  comments, — 'The  granaries  being 
full,  and  the  military  preparation  complete, 
then  let  the  influence  of  instruction  proceed. 


So  shall  the  people  have  faith  in  their  ruler, 
and  will  not  leave  him  or  rebel.'  On  the  3d 
par.  he  says,—'  If  the  people  be  without  food, 
they  must  die,  but  death  is  the  inevitable  lot 

of  men.    If  they  are  without  4g ,  though  they 

live,  they  have  not  wherewith  to  establish  them- 
selves. It  is  better  for  them  in  such  case  to 
die.  Therefore  it  is  better  for  the  ruler  to  die, 
not  losing  faith  to  his  people,  so  that  the  peo- 
ple will  prefer  death  rather  than  lose  faith  to 

S.  Substantial  qualities  akd  accomplish- 
ments in  tub  Kbun-tseb.  1.  Tsse-shing  was 
an  officer  of  the  state  of  Wei,  and,  distressed  by 
the  pursuit  in  the  times  of  what  was  meretyr 
external,  made  this  not  sufficiently  well-consi- 
dered remark,  to  which  Tsze-kung  replied,  in, 
ace  to  Choo  He,  an  equally  one-sided  manner. 

1.  <fnf  1}X  3>£  ^  i«  thus  expanded  in  the 

S*3fc-faJJI£$73r£#T% 

*  why  use  accompujhjneuts  in  order  to  makes 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


119 


IB, 

MM 

ftp 

ft* 


£  »  &  ia  £  :*:  *  * 

awe*. 


2.  Tsze-kung  said,  "Alas!  Your  words,  sir,  show  you  to  be  a 
superior  man,  but  four  horses  cannot  overtake  the  tongue. 

3.  "  Ornament  is  as  substance ;  substance  is  as  ornament  The 
hide  of  a  tiger  or  leopard  stript  of  its  hair,  is  like  the  hide  of  a  dog 
or  goat  stript  of  its  hair." 

Chapter  IX  1.  The  duke  Gae  inquired  of  Yew  J5,  saying,  "  The 
year  is  one  of  scarcity,  and  the  returns  far  expenditure  are  not  suffi- 
cient ; — what  is  to  be  done?" 

2.  Yew  Jo  replied  to  him,  "  Why  not  simply  tithe  the  people." 

3.  "With  two  tenths,"  said  the  duke,  "I  find  them  not  enough; 
— how  could  I  do  with  that  system  of  one  tenth?" 

4.  Yew  Jo  answered,  "  If  the  people  have  plenty,  their  prince  will 
not  be  left  to  want  alone.  If  the  people  are  in  want,  their  prince 
cannot  enjoy  plenty  alone." 


Ke*m-t*zef9  2.  We  may  interpret  this  par.,  as 
in  the  transL,  putting  a  comma  after  INK  So, 
Choo  He.  But  the  old  interpr.  seem  to  hare 
read  right  on,  without  any  comma,  to  4a.,  in 

which  case  the  par.  would  be — 'alas!  sir,  for 
the  way  in  which  you  speak  of  the  superior 
man!'  And  this  is  the  most  natural  construc- 
tion. 8.  The  mod.  comm.  seem  hypercritical  in 
condemning  Tsze-kung's  language  here.  He 
shows  the  desirableness  of  the  ornamental  ac- 
complishments, but  does  not  necessarily  put 
them  on  the  same  level  with  the  substantial 
qualities. 

9.  Light  taxation  thb  best  way  to  se- 
cure the  government  from  embarrassment 
pom  want  op  pukds.  2.  By  the  statutes  of 
the  Chow  dynasty,  the  ground  was  divided 
into  allotments  cultivated  in  common  by  the 
ftuftilies  located  upon  them,  and  the  produce 
was  sftrided  equally,  nine  tenths  being-given  to 


the  farmers,  and  one  tenth  being  reserved  as  a 
contribution  to  the  state.    This  was  called  the 

law  of  m[,  which  tenn= jS,  'pervading,'  'gen- 
eral,' with  ref.,  apparently,  to  the  system  of 
common  labour.  3.  A  former  duke  of  Loo, 
Seuen  (B.  C.  608-590),  had  imposed  an  addi- 
tional tax  of  another  tenth  from  each  family's 
portion.  4.  The  meaning  of  this  par.  is  given 
in  the  transl.  Literally  rendered,  it  is,—'  The 
people  having  plenty,  the  prince— with  whom 
not  plenty?  The  people  not  having  plenty, 
with  whom  can  the  prince  have  plenty?'  Yew 
Jd  wished  to  impress  on  the  duke  that  a  sym- 
pathy and  common  condition  should  unite  him 
and  his  people.  If  he  lightened  his  taxation  to 
the  regular  tithe,  then  they  would  cultivate 
their  allotments  with  so  much  vigour,  that  hit 
receipts  would  be  abundant  They  would  be 
able,  moreover,  to  help  their  kind  ruler  in  any 
emergency.  ; 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


120 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


o*Ci>o 


Chapter  X.  1.  Tsze-chang  having  asked  how  virtue  was  to  be 
exalted,  and  delusions  to  be  discovered,  the  Master  said,  "Hold 
faithfulness  and  sincerity  as  first  principles,  and  be  moving  con- 
tinually to  what  is  right; — this  is  the  way  to  exalt  ones  virtue. 

2.  "You  love  a  man  and  wish  him  to  live ;  you  hate  him  and  wish 
him  to  die.  Having  wished  him  to  live,  you  also  wish  him  to  die. 
This  is  a  case  of  delusion. 

3.  "'  It  may  not  be  on  account  of  her  being  rich,  yet  you  come 
to  make  a  difference.'" 

Chapter  XL  1.  The  duke  King,  of  Ts'e,  asked  Confucius  about 
government. 

2.  Confucius  replied,  "  There  is  government,  when  the  prince  is 
prince,  and  the  minister  is  minister;  when  the  father  is  father,  and 
the  son  is  son." 

3.  "  Good  I"  said  the  duke ;  "  if,  indeed ;  the  prince  be  not  prince, 
the  minister  not  minister,  the  father  not  father,  and  the  son  not 
son,  although  I  have  my  revenue,  can  I  enjoy  it  ?  " 

the  sage.  8.  See  the  She-king,  IX  iv.  4.  **.  8. 
I  hare  translated  according  to  the  meaning  in 
the  She-king.  The  quotation  may  be  twisted 
into  some  sort  of  accordance  with  the  preced- 
ing par.,  as  a  case  of  delusion,  but  the  coram. 
Ch*ing  (Jgr)  is  probably  correct  in  supposing 
that  it  should  be  transferred  to  XVL  12. 

11,  Good  government  obtains  only  whu 
all  the  relative  duties  are  maintained.  1» 
Conf.  went  to  Ts'e  in  his  36th  year,  and  finding 
the  reigning  duke— styled  King  after  his  death 
— overshadowed  by  his  ministers,  and  thinking 
of  setting  aside  his  eldest  son  from  the  succca* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


10.     HOW  TO   EXALT   VIRTUE   AMD   DISCOVER 
DELUSIONS.      1.    i    fft  ^pj'""866  L  8#  2#    Tne 

Master  says  nothing  about  the  $&,  'discrimin- 
ating,' or  ' discovering/  of  delusions,  but  gives 
an  instance  of  a  twofold  delusion.  Life  and 
death,  it  is  said,  are  independent  of  our  wishes. 
To  desire  for  a  man  either  the  one  or  the  other, 
therefore,  is  one  delusion.  And  on  the  change 
of  our  feelings  to  change  our  wishes  In  reference 

to  the  same  person,  is  another,  j^i^lfe  A* 
—But  in  this  Confucius  hardly  appears  to  be 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


181 


£ 


£ 


Hi 


=R 


fig 

Chapter  XII,  1.  The  Master  said,  "Ah  I  it  is  Yew,  who  oould 
with  half  a  word  settle  litigations !" 

2.     Tsze-loo  never  slept  over  a  promise. 

Chapter  XIII,  The  Master  said,  "In  hearing  litigations,  I  am 
like  any  other  body.  What  is  necessary,  is  to  cause  the  people  to 
have  no  litigations," 

Chapter  XIV,  Tsze-chang  asked  about  government,  TheMaste* 
said,  "  The  art  of  governing  is  to  keep  its  affairs  before  the  mind  with- 
out weariness,  and  to  practise  them  with  undeviating  consistency." 

Chapter  XV,  The  Master  said,  "By  extensively  studying  all 
learning,  and  keeping  himself  under  the  restraint  of  the  rules  of  pro* 
priety,  one  may  thus  likewise  not  err  from  what  is  right" 

plained  by  Jft,  'beforehand.'— 'Taae-ioomacja 
no  promises  beforehand/ 

18,     To  PREVENT  BETTER  THAN  TO  DBTKRMIKB 


•to*,  he  shaped  hU  answer  to  the  question  about 
government  accordingly.  8  $fe  f=j  ^,  'al- 
though I  have  the  grain,*  £  c,  roy  revenue,  the 
tithe  of  the  produce  of  the  country,    3£  ^ 

H5  £  &  <fc  f&  <*>»*<  ft  8&  xl 
£l\  'shall  I  be  able  to  eat  it ?'-~intimating  a 
•owfle  of  the  danger  he  was  exposed  to  from  his 
insubordinate  officers, 

12.  With  what  rase  Tszv*loo  cohld  skt- 
tuc  LmoATio!*8,  1,  We  translate  here — 4could,' 
autd  not— -'can,'  because  Couf,  is  not  refer- 
ring to  facts,  but  simply  praising  the  disciple's 

character.  )y*  W^^T1  W'  <half  ft  Wordt' 
2.  This  par.  Is  a  note  by  the  compilers,  stating 
*  fact  about  Tsge-ioo*  to  illustrate  what  the 
Master  said  of  him.  J3?  is  explained  by  Choo 
He  by  @,  'to  leave/  'to  let  remain.'  Its  prim. 
mean.  i*~-'  to  pass  a  nigh*/  We  have  in  English, 
ms  gfrren  in  the  transit  acorrespondingjdioin.— 

In  Ho  An,  ^  ||F  is  taken  as~f||  ^f\  'one- 
titled  wonis,'  mean,  that  Tsze-loo  could  judge 
rightly  on  hearing  half  a  case.   ^  again  is  ex- 


Utiqations.  See  the  ^^j^,  IV.  gg,  as 
oppos.  to  HJJ  (prec  ch,)  is  used  of  civil  causes 
(^&  ftf  Q  fj}fr)»  and  the  other  of  criminal 
^PQ  ffi).  Wttle  stress  is  to  be  laid 
on  the  '  J.'  3E-  ^g  ^  simpry«<  One  man  is 
as  good  as  another/  Much  stress  is  tP  he  IM 
on  (Sf ,  as»(  to  influence  to.' 

14,     THB  ABT  OF  QOVEEKryQ,    Jj|,  SJ  OppOS. 

to  ft,  must  be  an  active  verb,  and  is  explained 
by  Choo  He  as  in  the  translation.  £  ****** 
to  jfik  or,  rather,  that  aspect  of  govern- 
ment about  which  Tsze-chang  was  inquiring. 

f&  #=j£  fc  to  —  • ,flwt  «*  •"»  *• 

and  internally  the  same.' 


15.    Uakdly  Dirjf&ufiKX  nox  VL  15. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


122 


CCMftiClA*  analects: 


imm£i3> 

#  a  ie.#  ra  *  t 


Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  seek*  to 
perfect  the  admirable  qualities  of  men,  and  does  not  seek  to  perfect 
their  bad  qualities.     Tne  mean  man  does  the  opposite  of  this." 

Chapter  XVII.  Ke  K4ang  asked  Confucius  about  government 
Confucius  replied,  "  To  govern  means  to  rectify.  If  you  lead  on  the 
people  with  correctness,  who  will  dare  not  to  be  correct ?n 

Chapter  XVIII.  Ke  K4ang  distressed  about  the  number  of  thieves 
in  tfie  state,  inquired  of  Confucius  about  how  to  do  away  with  them. 
Confucius  said,  "  If  you,  sir,  were  not  covetous,  although  you  should 
reward  them  to  do  it,  they  would  not  steal." 

Chapter  XIX.  Ke  K'ang  asked  Confucius  about  government, 
toying,  "  What  do  you  say  to  killing  the  unprincipled  for  the  good 
of  the  principled?"  Confucius  replied,  u  Sir,  in  carrying  on  your 
government,  why  should  you  use  killing  at  all  ?    Let  your  evinced 

^L  7  $JC»  <^Yen  t*16  fact  of  your  not  being 
ambitious.'    ^  ^^llt  S* 

19.  Killing  not  to  be  talked  of  bt  rulers; 

THE    EFFECT    OF  THEIR  EXAMPLE.      In  1f]t   4% 

fUL'fflt1*** actiye  wb»-rit»  <*  J^fc  3t 

'to  complete/  'to  per'ect,'  fjfi  is  used  in  a 
vague  sense,  not  positive  virtue,  butae*  nature*' 
'character.*  Some  for  J^  would  read  ffr*» 
jjft,  'to  add  upon,'  but  J^  itself  must  base 
have  substantially  that  meaning.     E§[  J^  Jj2* 

H=^.  to  Z  VXM,  '*•  ««*  »«**• 

the  wind  upon  it.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


16.  OpPOBITB   INFLUENCE    I  PON   OTHERS    OF 

the  superior  man  and  the  mean  man. 

17.  Government  moral  in  its  end,  and 
efficient  bt  example. 

18.  The  people  are  made  thieves  bt  the 
example  of  thkir  ri:ler8.  This  is  a  good  in- 
stance of  Conf.  boldness  in  reproving  men  in 
power.  Ke  K'ang  had  confirmed  himself  as 
head  of  the  Ke  family,  and  entered  into  all  its 
usurpations,  by  taking  off  the  infant  nephew, 

who  should  have  been  its  rightful  chief.  jf\  &fc 
**>ffc  W",  '  did  not  covet,'  L  e^  a  position  and 
influence  to  which  you  have  no  right,  ffi  -7* 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


125 


& /*m  m  &  to  ±  &&  =? 
*>&  #  fan  %f*  &  && 

W  IE  W  ^c«i£  ^  If  $  31 

*t  £**&#.£  *.*/f 


9t^ 


ass.     ine  grass  must  Dena,  wnen  the  wma  diows  across  it. 
upter  XX.  1.     Tsze-chang  asked,  "  What  must  the  officer  ber 
nay  be  said  to  be  distinguished  ?  " 
Tfhe  Master  said,  "What  is  it  you  call  being  distinguished ?n 


desires  be  for  what  is  good,  and  the  people  will  be  good.  The  relation 
between  superiors  and  inferiors,  is  like  that  between  the  wind  and 
the  grass.     The  grass  must  bend,  when  the  wind  blows  across  it." 

Chapter  XX.         ~ 
who  ma\ 

3.  Tsze-chang  replied,  "  It  is  to  lie  heard  of  through  the  state,  to 
be  heard  of  through  the  family." 

4,  The  Master  said,  "That  is  notoriety,  not  distinction. 

5,  "Now,  the  man  of  distinction  is  solfd  and  straightforward,  and 
loves  righteousness.  He  examines  people's  words,  and  looks  at  their 
countenances.  He  is  anxious  to  humble  himself  to  others.  Such 
a  man  will  be  distinguished  in  the  country ;  he  will  be  distinguished 
in  the  family. 

6.  "  As  to  the  man  of  notoriety,  he  assumes  the  appearance  of  vir^ 


20.  The  man  op  true  distinction,  and  thb 
VAX  of  notoriety.  1.  -£  'a  scholar/  *aii 
etifcer.'  The  two  ideas  blend  together  in  China. 

5^H®  5^» <t0  reach  ***  round*f  lt  includes 
here  the  ideas  of  being  influential,  and  that  in- 
fluence being  acknowledged.  8.  If  J^be  under- 
stood of '  an  officer/  then  ^E  ^J  assumes  him  to 
t»  the  minister  of  a  prince  of  a  state,  and  ^f*  ?St  > 
that  he  Is  only  the  minister  of  a  great  officer, 
who  is  the  head  of  a  family.    If,  however,  J^ 


be  understood  of  « a  scholar/  ^J  wilI=^f|  £» 

'  the  country/  '  people  generally/  and  5£  wills. 
l£  jg, '  the  circle  of  relatives  and  neighbours.* 

5  ifc  ^f » 8ee  L  2-  "P  A»"""P  ** tlie  verb* 

The  diet,  explains  it— ^  {&,  g  J^  jfij 
~TC  -ftt , '  to  descend.  From  being  on  high  to  be- 
come low/  But  it  is  here  rather  more  still.  Tj 
A,  '  to  come  down  below  other  men.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


124 


COKFUCIAlt  AUALECTS, 


tM-m^m 


u 


ill 

ttte*  but  his  actions  are  opposed  to  it,  and  he  rests  in  this  character 
without  any  doubts  about  himself.  Such  rt  man  will  be  heard  of  in 
the  country;  he  will  be  heard  of  in  the  family/* 

Chapter  XXL  1.  Fan-ch'e  rambling  with  the  Master  under  the 
trees  about  the  raln-altatoj  said,  "  I  venture  to  ask  how  to  exalt  vir* 
tue,  to  correct  cherished  evil,  and  to  discover  delusions." 

2.  The  Master  said,  "Truly  a  good  question ! 

3.  "  If  doing  what  is  to  be  done  be  made  the  first  business,  and 
success  a  secondary  consideration ;-— is  not  this  the  way  to  exalt  vir- 
tue? To  assail  one's  own  wickedness  and  not  assail  that  of  others  J 
-—is  not  this  the  way  to  correct  cherished  evil?  For  a  morning's 
anger,  to  disregard  one's  own  life,  and  involve  that  of  his  parents; 
-—is  not  this  a  case  of  delusion  ?M 

Chapter  XXII.  1*  Fan  Ch'e  asked  about  benevolence.  The  Mas* 
ter  said,  "It  is  to  love  alt  men  "  He  asked  about  knowledge.  The 
Master  said,  "It  is  to  know  all  mem" 

2.     Fan  Ch'e  did  not  immediately  understand  tltese  answers* 

with^|H^^|,iitVI.  20,  which  aboil 
the  report  of  a  conversation  with  tfan  Cftfa 


21.  HOW  TO  BXAIT  VIRTUE,  CORRECT  VIC K,  AND 

mscovicR  delusions.  Comp.  ch.  10.  Here,  as 
there,  under  the  last  point  of  the  inquiry,  Cortf. 
•imply  indicates  a  case  of  delusion,  and  perhaps 
that  is  the  best  tray  to  teach  how  to  discover 

delusions  generally.    1.   4£  WL  see  XI.  45, 

11 ;  followed  here  by  j£*  "K,  there  most  be 
reference  to  the  trees  growing  about  the  al- 
tars. i&,  formed  from  'heart1  and  'to  conceal,' 

•secret  vice.    3.  ^  ^  ^  ^>*-wmp. 


JtSS,-- .lt^ti'  Miinlself,' 'his  own.'  «A 
rriorniitg'rf  anger'  must  be  a  small  tiling,  bat 
the  consequences  of  giving  w«y  to  it  are  .mp 
terrible.    The  case  is  one  of  great  delusion. 

22.  About  bbhbvolencb  axd  wisdom;  — 
how  knowledge  scbskrvbd  bknkvolescr.  fsu 
Ch'e  might  well  deem  the  Master's  replies  eni#» 
matical,  and,  with  the  help  of  Tsze-hea's  ex- 
planations, the  student  tftill  finds  it  dHftcRfc  to 


Digitized  by  l^iOOQlC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


126 


AS  ^ 

\  1/  a  nod 

Ira       3k> 


» 


# 


..   ..  IS 

#  J&fcTo 

^  It?  fe 


%  It  Sffa 
5.  f§  0. 

0,fe^n 

=f-  m  0» 


a: 


3.  The  Master  said,  "  Employ  the  upright  and  put  aside  all  the 
crooked ; — in  this  way>  the  crooked  can  be  made  to  be  upright." 

4.  Fan  Ch4e  retired,  and  seeing  Tsze*hea,  he  said  to  him,  "  A 
little  ago,  I  had  an  interview  with  our  Master,  and  asked  him  about 
knowledge.  He  said,  '  Employ  the  upright,  and  put  aside  all  the 
crooked ; — in  this  way,  the  crooked  can  be  made  to  be  upright/ 
What  did  he  mean?" 

5.  Tsze-hea  said,  "Truly  rich  is  his  saying! 

6.  "  Shun,  being  in  possession  of  the  empire,  selected  from  among 
all  the  people  and  employed  Kaou*yaou,  on  which  all  who  were 
devoid  of  virtue  disappeared*  T'ang  being  in  possession  of  the  em- 
pire, selected  from  among  all  the  people,  and  employed  E-yin,  and 
all  who  were  devoid  of  virtue  disappeared/* 

Chapter  XXIIL  Ts«e»kung  asked  about  friendship.  The  Mas* 
ter  said,  "  Faithfully  admonish  your  friend,  and  kindly  try  to  lead 
him.   If  you  find  him  impracticable,  stop*   Do  not  disgrace  yourself/' 

understand  the  chapter.    1*  £^  here,  being 
Opposed  to,  or  distinct  from,  4j}>  to  to  be  taken 


as  meaning  *  benevolence,1  and  not  as  'perfect 
virtue.'  2.  ^jg ,  'not  yet,'  1. «.,  not  immediately. 
*  See  II.  19.  4.  ^,  up*  8d  tone,  in  the  diet. 
explained  by  #,  'formerly?  &  Kaou-yaou, 


and  £»yta>— -tee  the  Shocking,  IL  iii,  and  lit 
iv.  Shun  and  T'ang  showed  their  wisdom-* 
their  knowledge  of  men— in  the  selection  of 
those  ministers*  That  was  their  employment 
of  the  upright,  and  therefore  all  devoid  of  virtue 
disappeared*  That  was  their  making  the  crooked 
upright ;— and  89  their  love  reached  to  all. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


1S« 


COSTOCIAH  ABAUCTB. 


it* 


Chapter  XXIV.  The  philosoher  T*Ing  said,  u  The  superior*** 
on  literary  grounds  meets  with  his  friends,  and  by  their  fii  mdfihi[i 
helps  his  virtue." 


.1 

.Ml 


£3.    Pbubbbcb  in   pbibwdship. 


ill 


read 


kmky  as  im  ID.  7,  implying  tome  degree  of  defe- 
wmo0m    jS**^'  «•  in  IL8|  I. 


14,    Tub   pbisbdbhip  or  thb 
ia^4byme«ifof  letter*/  t  «, 
literary  studies  and  pnrsuita. 


BOOK  Xin.  TSZE-LOO. 


SSAS.#^i9  5« 


s,  £.*  It^-h 


^ 


ffi£>=f-&  =  # 


Chapter  L  1.  Tsze-loo  asked  about  government  The  Master 
said,  "  Go  before  the  people  with  your  example,  and  be  laborious  ia 
their  affairs." 

2.  He  requested  further  instruction,  and  was  answered,  aBe 
not  weary  in  these  things." 

Chapter  II.  1.  Chung-kung,  being  chief  minister  to  the  head 
of  the  Ke  family,  asked  about  government     The  Master  said,  "  Em- 


Hkadiho  op  this  Book.— ^  fijt  |&  -4- 

=i  4Ts«e-loo.— Book  Xm/  Here,  as  in  the 
last  book,  we  hare  a  number  of  subjects  touched 
upon,  all  bearing  more  or  less  directly  on  the 
government  of  the  state,  and  the  cultivation  of 
the  person.    The  book  extends  to  thirty  chap- 

1.     THB  8BCRBT  OP  8UCCK8S  IV  QOYBUNI1IG  If 
THB   UKWBIRIBD   fcXAMPLB  OP  THB  BULBfefi  * A. 

lesson  to  Tsxb-loo.  1.  To  what  understood 
antecedents  do  the  prefer?  For  the  first,  we 
may  suppose  H*-jfc<!>^&H> <*  M 
|j|, « precede  the  people,'  «  lead  the  people,'  that 
is,  do  so  by  the  example  of  your  personal  con- 
duct But  we  cannot  in  toe  second  clause  bring 


£  (""JjJ)  m  the  same  way  under  the: 

fjf-  92-****'™ 

laborious  for  them;'  that  ia,  to  set  them  tts 
example  of  diligence  in  agriculture,  Ac  It  to 
better,  however,  according  to  the  idiom  I  fan* 
several  times  pointed  out,  to  take  j£  a*  gMaf 
a  sort  of  neuter  and  general  force  to 


ing  words,  so  that  the  expi 
pie  and  Uboriousness,'— K'uag  Gan-kwo  uwfer- 
stands  the  meaning  differently: — 'set  the  «p> 
pie  an  example,  and  then  you  may  make  Am 
labour.'    But  this  is  not  so  good.    2.  Mis 

old  copies  is  fit.    lire -meaning  come*  to  A* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAtf  ANALKCT8. 


12? 


S   pq 


jej&^w  few 

£  *  ^  H  *  *  I  St 

lE^  0,f  i&o#f  i/  i» 


ploy  first  the  services  of  your  various  officers,  pardon  small  faults, 
and  raise  to  office  men  of  virtue  and  talents." 

2.  Chung-kung  said,  "  How  shall  I  know  the  men  of  virtue  and 
talent,  so  that  I  may  raise  them  to  office  ?"  He  was  answered, 
"Raise  to  office  those  whom  you  know.  As  to  those  whom  you  do 
not  know,  will  others  neglect  them?" 

Chapter  III.  1.  Tsze-loo  said,  "The  prince  of  Wei  has  been 
writing  for  you,  in  order  with  you  to  administer  the  government: 
What  will  you  consider  the  first  thing  to  be  done?" 

1    The  Master  replied,  "  What  is  necessary  is  to  rectify  names." 

3.  uSo,  indeed!"  said  Tsze-loo.  "You  are  wide  of  the  mark. 
Why  must  there  be  such  rectification?" 

4.  The  Master  said,  "  How  uncultivated  you  are,  Yew !  A  su- 
perior man,  in  regard  to  what  he  does  not  know,  shows  a  cautious 
reserve." 

2.  The  duties  chiefly  to  be  attended  to 

BT  A.  BEAD  MtHItTBB : — A  LESSOR  TO  YEN  YuKG. 

1  ^fc  'ff  ftj»— ' comP'  TOL  *»  *■    The  ^ 

fj]  are  the  various  smaller  officers.    A  head 

Minister  should  assign  them  their  duties,  and 
not  be  interfering  in  them  himself.  His  buai- 
Etas  is  to  examine  into  the  manner  in  which 
Aey  discharge  them.  And  in  doing  so,  he 
tiuttfti  overtook  small  faults.    2.  J^  ^  Jg*> 

J8,-comp.    |X|  JH  ^  &  §&  to  VL  4, 

though  the  force  of  %*  here  is  not  so  great  as 
in  (hat  ch.  Conf.  meaning  is,  that  Chung-kung 
Mad  not  trouble  himself  about  ail  men  of  worth. 
Let  him  advance  those  he  knew.  There  was  no 
tear  that  the  others  would  be  neglected.  Comp. 
what  is  said  on  'knowing  men,'  in  XII.  22. 


8.  The  supbexk  importance  of  names  be* 
ixg  correct.  1.  This  conversation  is  assigned 
by  Choo  He  to  the  11th  year  of  the  duke  Gae 
of  Loo,  when  Conf.  was  69,  and  he  returned 
from  his  wanderings  to  his  native  state.  Tsae* 
loo  had  then  been  some  time  in  the  service  of 
the  duke  Ch'uh  of  Wei,  who  it  would  appear, 
bad  been  wishing  to  get  the  services  of  the  sage 
himself,  and  the  disciple  did  not  think  that  his 
Master  would  refuse  to  accept  office,  as  he  had 

not  objected  to  his  doing  so.  2.  4J  must  have 
here  a  special  reference,  which  Tsze-loo  did  not 
apprehend.     Nor  did  the  old  interpr.,  for  Ma 

Yung  explains  the  If  ^  by  IP  ~fi  ^ 

£  ^£j,  (to  rectify  the  names  of  all  things/ 
On  this  view,  the  reply  would  indeed  be  'wide 
of  the  mark.'  The  answer  is  substantially  the 
same  as  the  reply  to  duke  King  of  Ts*e  about 

Digitized  by  UOOQ IC 


128 


COKFUCIAX  AHALECT8. 


%  m  ^o^  f  ¥  M 
M  &  =f .  IN 


P' 


T^V  IE 

JJE  /Soft 

m  m  % 
m  m  ii 

13 II  MU 


5.  "  If  names  be  not  correct,  language  is  not  in  accordance  with 
the  truth  of  things.  If  language  be  not  in  accordance  with  the 
truth  of  things,  affairs  cannot  be  carried  on  to  Buccess. 

6.  "  When  affairs  cannot  be  carried  on  to  success,  proprieties 
and  music  will  not  flourish.  When  proprieties  and  music  do  not 
flourish,  punishments  will  not  be  properly  awarded.  When  punish* 
ments  are  not  properly  awarded,  the  people  do  not  know  now  to 
move  hand  or  foot 

7.  "Therefore  a  superior  man  considers  it  necessary  that  the 
names  he  uses  may  be  spoken  appropriately,  and  also  that  what  he 
speaks  may  be  carried  out  appropriately.  What  the  superior  man 
requires,  is  just  that  in  his  words  there  may  be  nothing  incorrect" 

Chapter  IV  1.  Fan  Ch4e  requested  to  be  taught  husbandry. 
The  Master  said,  "  I  am  not  so  good  for  that  as  an  old  husbandman/ 
He  requested  also  to  be  taught  gardening,  and  was  answered,  "I 
am  not  so  good  for  that  as  an  old  gardener." 

enables  us  to  understand  better  the  climax  that 
follows,  thu'  its  successive  steps  are  stBl  set 


gorern.  in  XII.  11,  that  it  obtains  when  the 
prince  if  prince,  the  father  father,  4c ;  that  is, 
when  each  man  in  his  relations  is  what  the  nam* 
of  his  relation  would  require.  Now,  the  duke 
ChHih  held  the  rule  of  Wei  against  his  father; 
sec  VII.  14.  Conf.,  from  the  necessity  of  the 
case  and  peculiarity  of  the  circumstances,  si* 
lowed  his  disciples,  notwithstanding  that,  to 
take  office  in  Wei ;  but  at  the  time  of  this  con* 
venatiou,  Chhih  had  been  duke  for  nine  years, 
and  ought  to  have  been  so  established  that  he 
could  have  taken  the  course  of  a  filial  son  with- 
out subjecting  the  state  to  any  ritks.  On  this 
account,  Conf.  said  he  would  begin  with  rec- 
tifying the  name  of  the  duke,  that  is,  with  re- 
quiring him  to  resign  the  dukedom  to  his  fa- 
ttier, and  be  what  his  name  of  mm  required 

him  to  be.    See  the  j|  j^r,  in  foe    This  Tie w 


without  difficulty.  J£  ^g  Ip.,— Jp.  may  be 
taken  as  an  exclamation,  or  aa«p'  Is  H  not  r   1 

§H  4n>— fj$J  *•  ntcd  in  the  •ame  •cn*e  **  m 
II.  18.  The  pbraseoc'is  putttng-aside-Hke,' 
u  «.,  the  sup.  man  reserves  and  revolves  what  he 
is  in  doubt  about,  and  does  not  rashly  speak.  & 
*  Proprieties*  here  are  not  ceremonial  rules,  feat 
border'  what  such  rules  are  designed  to  dis- 
play and  secure.    So,  *  music'  Is  equivalent  to 

'harmony/  pfj,  3d  tone,  is  the  verb;  ^J\  ij? 
s'  do  not  hit  the  mark/ 

4,     A    BULB*    HAS   WOT  TO   OOCUTT  HmSRUT 
WITH  WHAT  IS  PBOPSmLY  TH«   BUSIJCBSS  OF  TWf 

rsorut.     It  is  to  be  supposed  that  Fan  Ore 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONTOCTAK  AHAMSCW. 


129 


i§  #  &  R  81  0. 


2.  Fan  Ch'e  having  gone  out,  the  Master  said,  "A  small  man, 
Indeed,  is  Fan  SeuT 

3.  "  If  a  superior  love  propriety,  the  people  will  not  dare  not  to 
be  reverent  If  he  love  righteousness,  the  people  will  not  dare  not 
to  submit  to  hi*  example,  if  he  love  good  faith,  the  people  will  not 
dare  not  to  be  sincere.  Now,  when  these  things  obtain,  the  people 
from  all  quarters  will  come  to  him,  bearing  their  children  on  their 
backs.  Waat  need  has  he  of  a  knowledge  of  husbandry?" 

Chapter  V,  The  Master  said,  "Though  a  man  itmj  be  able  to 
recite  the  throe  hundred  odes,  yet  if,  when  intrusted  with  a  govern* 
mental  charge,  he  knows  not  how  to  act,  or  i£  when  sent  to  any 
quarter  on  a  mission,  he  cannot  give  his  replies  unassisted,  notwith- 
standing the  extent  of  his  leamiwj,  of  what  practical  use  is  it?" 


was  at  this  time  in  office  somewhere,  and  think- 
ing of  the  Master,  as  the  villager  and  high  offi- 
cer did,  IX.  t  anil  6.  that  b«  knowledge  em- 
braced  almost  erery  subject,  ne  imagined  that 
fee  might  get  lessons  from  him  ou  the  two  sul>- 
jects  he  specifies,  which  he  might  use  for  the 

benefit  of  £he  people.    1.  T&  is  properly  the 

' seed-sowing,'  and  pff|,  'a  kitchen-garden,1  but 

they  are  used  generally,  as  in  the  transl.  3.  4j§, 
'the  feelings,'  *  desires,'  but  sometimes,  as  here, 
in  the  sense  of  'sincerity.'    |J£[,  often  joined 

with  Iffl,  is  a  cloth  with  strings  by  which  a 
•hfld  Is  strapped  upon  the  back  of  its  mother 
or  nurse.— This  par.  shows  what  people  in  office 


should  learn.  Oonf.  intended  that  it  should  b» 
repeated  to  Fan  \9U% 

5.    Literary  acquirements  useless  with- 
out PRACTICAL  ABILITY.      g4  ~  "S ', — See  II. 

2  gS, '  to  croon  over,'  as  Chinese  students  do$ 
here, =' to  have  learned.'  Jt|=|2j^, '  alone,'  ut^ 
unassisted  by  the  individuals  of  his  suite.  4£, 
4  many,'  refer,  to  the  800  odes.  >jj\,  *  also,'  here 
and  in  other  places, = our  'yet,' ( after  all.'   ^k 

ML  3SH8' u  to  ""'-M'  <U8e>'  and  3S 

is  a  mere  expletive, — J^pufy]  p3»  bmt  **<* 
term  may  have  its  meaning,  as  in  the  translation. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


130 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


^  ^  *. 


S4LW 


Chapter  VI.  The  Master  said,  "When  a  prince's  personal  con- 
duct is  correct,  his  government  is  effective  without  the  issuing  of 
orders.  If  his  personal  conduct  is  not  correct,  he  may  issue  orders, 
but  they  will  not  be  followed." 

Chapter  VII.  The  Master  said,  "  The  government  of  Loo  and 
Wei  are  brothers." 

Chapter  VIII.  The  Master  said  of  King,  a  scion  of  the  ducal 
family  of  Wei,  that  he  knew  the  economy  of  a  family  well.  When 
he  began  to  have  means,  he  said,  "Ha!  here  is  a  collection !"  when 
they  were  a  little  increased,  he  said,  "  Ha!  this  is  complete ! "  when  he 
had  become  rich,  he  said,  uHa!  this  is  admirable!" 

Chapter  IX.  1.  When  the  Master  went  to  Wei,  Yen  Yew  acted 
as  driver  of  his  carriage. 

2.  The  Master  observed,  "How  numerous  are  the  people!" 

3.  Yew  said,  "  Since  they  are  thus  numerous,  what  more  shall 
be  done  for  them?"     "Enrich  them,"  was  the  reply. 

house.    «  By  jg  is  a  difficult  expression. 


G.   Hl8  PERSONAL  CONDUCT  ALL  IK  ALL  TO  A 

ruler.  A  translator  finds  it  impossible  here 
to  attain  to  the  terse  conciseness  of  Ms  original. 

7.  TlIK  SIMILAR  CONDITION  OF  THE  STATES  OF 

Loo  and  Wei.  Comp.  VI.  22.  Loo's  state  had 
been  from  the  influence  of  Chow-kung,  and  Wei 

was  the  fief  of  his  brother  Fung  (=feJ0,  com- 
monly known  as  K'ang-shuh  (Hf  ?te)«  They 
had,  similarly,  maintained  an  equal  and  brother- 
ly course  iu  their  progress,  or,  as  it  was  in  Con- 
fticius'  time,  in  their  degeneracy.  That  portion 
of  the  present  Ho-nan,  which  runs  up  and  lies 
between  Shan-se  and  Pih-chih-le,  was  the  bulk 
of  Wei, 

8.  TlIB  CONTENTMENT  OF  THE  OFFICER  KlNG, 
AND  HI*  INDIFFERENCE  IN  ORTTINO  RICH.      King 

was  a  great  officer  of  Wei,  a  sciou  of  its  ducal 


Literally  it  is — 'dwelt  well  in  his  house.'  |5f 
implies  that  he  was  a  married  man,  the  head  of 
a  family.     The  &  |S  says  the  phrase  if 

equivalent  to  jS  §jj£,  'managed  bis  family.' 
Choo  He  explain.  %j  by  $}  JLffi#  Z 
W, — 'it  is  significant  of  indifference  and  care- 
lessness.' Our  word  *  ha ! '  expressing  surprise 
and  satisfaction  corresponds  to  it  pretty  nearly. 

The  jjfo  &  says  that  the  £J  is  not  to  bens* 
derstood  as  if  King  really  made  these  utter- 
ances, but  that  Couf.  thus  vividly  represent! 
how  he  felt. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CuhirUClAN  ANALECTS. 


131 


k f  *  pt  =? if  &m 

£  0,  W  $  0>  E  0>  X  1m 

III  "iC     yfiij    >    /fl     J^o   © 


4.     "  And  wlien  they  have  been  enriched,  what  more  shall  be 
done?"    The  Master  said,  "Teach  them." 


Chapter  X  The  Master  said,  "  If  there  were  any  of  the  princes 
who  would  employ  me,  in  the  course  of  twelve  months,  I  should  have 
done  something  considerable.  In  three  years,  the  government  would 
be  perfected." 

Chapter  XI.  The  Master  said,  " ' If  good  men  were  to  govern  a 
country  in  succession  for  a  hundred  years,  they  would  be  able  to 
transform  the  violently  bad,  and  dispense  with  capital  punishments.1 
True  indeed  is  this  saying!" 

Chapter  XII.  The  Master  said,  "  If  a  truly  royal  ruler  were 
to  arise,  it  would  still  require  a  generation,  and  then  virtue  would 
prevail " 

9.  A  people  nukbrovs,  wKt-orr,  and  EDU- 
CATED, IS  TUB  GREAT  ACHIEVEMENT  OB  GOVERN- 
MENT. 1.  411,  'a  •errant,'  but  here  with  the 
mean,  in  the  translation.  That,  indeed,  is  the 
second  meaning  of  the  char,  given  in  the  diet. 

10.  CONFUCIUS*  ESTIMATE  OP  WHAT  H 1  GOULD 
DO,  IB  EMPLOYED  TO  A  DM t MISTER  THE  govbRe- 
ment  of  ▲  state.    3§j,  is  to  be  distinguished 

•AMI 

from  JDI,  andca'a  revolution  of  the  year.' 

There  is  a  comma  at   H,  and  fljj  pL  "HT  are 

read  together,  fjjj  p.  does  not  signify,  as  it 
tften  does,  'and  nothing  more,'  bufc*'and  have,' 
fi  being  <Q.  £f,  a  sign  of  the  perfect  tense. 
•-'Given  twelve  months,  and  there  would  be  a 
Dassable  result  In  three  years,  there  would  be 
•  completion,* 


11.  What  a  hundred  years  or  good  GO- 
VERNMENT COULD  EFFECT.     Conf.   qUOtCB  heft  A 

saying  of  his  time,  and  approves  of  it.    Bfe,  up- 

per  1st  tone,  'to  be  equal  to.'    Rfe  j&j,  'would 

be  equal  to  the  violent,'  that  is,  to  transform 

them.   2£+  ^,  'to  do  away  with  killing/  that 

is,  with  capital  punishments,  unnecessary  with 
a  transformed  people. 

12.  In  what  time  a  royal  ruler  could 

TRANSFORM   THE  EMPIRE.      ^  ftS*,   'OHO  who 

was  a  king.'  The  char.  J  is  formed  by  three 
straight  lines  representing  the  three  powers  of 
Heaven,  Earth,  and  Man,  and  a  perpendicular 
line,  going  through  and  uniting  them,  and  thus 
conveys  the  highest  idea  of  power  and  influence. 

See  the  diet.,  char.  ■Jj[.  Here  it  means  the 
highest  wisdom  and  virtue  in  the  highest  place. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQIC 


nr 


coflfCciA*  iWAtecm 


b.0 

CnAPmn  XlIL  The  Master  said.  "  If  a  minister  make  his  own 
Conduct  correct,  what  difficulty  will  he  have  In  assisting  in  govern- 
ment ?  If  he  cannot  rectify  himself,  what  has  he  to  do  with  rectifying 
others?" 

Chapter  XIV,  The  disciple  Yen  returning  from  the  court,  the 
Master  said  to  him,  "How  are  you  so  late?"  He  replied,  "We  had 
government  business."  The  Master  said,  "  It  must  have  been  family 
affairs.  If  there  had  been  government  business,  though  I  am  not 
now  in  office,  I  should  have  been  consulted  about  lt«" 

Chapter  XV.  1.  The  duke  Ting  asked  whether  there  was  a  single 
sentence  which  could  make  a  countrv  prosperous.  Confucius  replied/ 
"  Such  an  effect  cannot  be  expected  from  one  sentence. 

2,  "There  is  a  saying,  however,  which  people  have— *  To  be  a 
prince  is  difficult  \  to  be  a  minister  is  not  easy/ 


IE  MS 
lEfa  IE 


W*, '  a  generation,*  or  thirty  years.  See  note 
on  II.  23, 1.   The  old  irtterflr.  take  £^  as=±=£; 

j|3/ ,    '  virtuous  governmenkWTo  save  Conf. 

from  the  charge  of  vartity  in  what  he  says,  in 
ch.  10,  that  he  could  accomplish  in  three  years, 
It  is  said,  that  the  perfection  which  he  predi- 
cates there  would  only  be  the  foundation  for 
the  virtue  here  realized. 

13.    That  hk  be personally  correct  rssew- 

TIAL  TO   AM  OFFICER   OF  GOVERNMENT*      Comp. 

ch.  6.  That  the  subject  is  here  an  officer  of 
gov.,  and  not  the  ruler,  appears  from  the  phrase 

^f&  J£lC »  8ee  no*e  on  V^  ^  Vfitli  reference  to 
the  other  phraseology  of  the  ch.,  the  4m  "pET 
says  tliat  ^  jflfc  embraces  j£  3^|%  '  the  rec- 
tification of  the  prince/  attd  JJ£  E*,  *  the  rec- 
tification of  the  people' 

14      All  IRONICAL  ADMONITION  TO  YEN  YEW  OX 

Tiis  usuuriNu  TSNiutxiiiiB  uf  Out  Kb  fajilli* 


The  point  of  the  ch,  turns  on  the  opposition  of 
the  phrases  '&  jR^  and  jj£  ^  -ffl»— **  tno 
court  of  the  Ke  family,  that  is,  they  nad  really 
been  discussing  matters  of  government,  affecting 
the  state,  and  proper  only  for  the  prince's  court* 
Coilf.  afTocts  not  to  believe  it,  and  says  that  at 
the  chief*  court  they  could  only  have  been  dis- 
cussing the  affairs  of  his  house.  yK  2£>  Uj[,— 

an  inversion,  and  j£j[=t^|,  'although  I  am 

nouf  not  employed.'  S3,  low.  3d  tone.— -'I  should 

haVe  been  present  and  heard  it.'  Superannuated 
officers  nit <.'ht  go  to  coUrt  on  occasions  of  emer- 
gency, and  might  also  be  consulted  on  such, 
thottgh  the  gen.  rule  was  to  allow  them  to  retire 
at  70.    See  the  Le  Ke,  I.  i.  28. 

15.  How  THE  PROSPERITY  AND  RCIX  OF  A 
COCNTRY  MAY  DRPKlfD  OS  THE  ItULKR's  VIEW  O* 
m»  POSITION,  HIS  FEELING  ITS  IHFPICl'LTY,  OH 
ONLY    CHKRISIII.NG    A    HEAD8TROKO     WILL.      1.    1 

should  suppose  that  -»•  f|F  STl^l  fit/5,aiK* 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONltCIAN  ANALECTS. 


133 


PR 


$  -  #n  g  ^  3t  §go]fi  £p  £ 


o 


t    4^f"f-prwas 


3.  "  If  a  ruler  knows  this,— the  difficulty  of  being  a  prince, — may 
here  not  be  expected  from  this  one  sentence  the  prosperity  of  his 
ountry?" 

4.  The  duke  then  said,  "  Is  there  a  single  sentence  which  can 
uin  a  country?"  Confucius  replied,  "Such  an  effect  as  that  cannot 
K3  expected  from  one  sentence.  There  is,  lwivever,  the  saying  which 
people  have—'  I  have  no  pleasure  in  being  a  prince,  only  in  that  no 
me  offer  any  opposition  to  what  I  say ! ' 

5.  " If  a  rulers  words  be  good,  is  it  not  also  good  that  no  one 
appose  them  ?  But  if  they  are  not  good,  and  no  one  opposes  them, 
nay  there  not  be  expected  from  this  one  sentence  the  ruin  of  his 
wintry?" 

Chapter  XVI.  1,     The  duke  of  She  asked  about  government. 
2.    The  Master  said,   "  Good  government  obtains,  tchen  those  who 
ire  near  are  made  happy,  and  those  who  are  far  off  are  attracted." 

first  ^,  but  it  is  better  to  take  that  ^ait 
preposition; — *  May  It  not  be  expected  that  from 


he  correspond,  senk  below  were  coram,  sayings, 
ibout  which  the  duke  asks,  in  a  way  to  intimate 

)i*  disbelief  of  them— ^   §g.    ^  is  not 

*rc  in  the  sense  of   4a  spring/  or  'primum 

n^de,'  but=fifl,  in  the  sense  of  *  to  expect,' '  to 

w  expected  from.'    — ■  ^=—  ^jjj,  as  in 

'!•  2.  2.  It  is  only  the  first  part  of  the  saying 
>n  which  Conf.  dwells.  That  is  called  :£,  the 
principal  sentence ;  the  other  is  only  /SK  ij£, 
«a«e<Kt>s«iy.'    3.  Some  put  a  comma  at  the 


this  one  word,  Ac.?1    Similarly,  par.  4,  -3^  is  a 

prep^our  m»  ^  fl^— "  W  ls  tt8ed  8Pecial* 
ly  of  the  orders,  roles,  &c.,  which  a  ruler  may 
issue. 

16.  Goon  ooVBENMKirr  seen  fbom  its  ef- 
fect*. 1.  ^j|,  read  thi;  see  VII.  18.  2.  Conf.  it 
supposed  to  have  in  view  the  oppressive  and  ag- 
gressive gwU  of  TeoO)  to  which  $hi  belonged. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


134 


CONFUCIAH  ANALECTS, 


if.  ift  £„  it: 


1    7J*I 


CJ 


It 

I'J  >h  ^ 

'  ft  it 


^    **£ 


=f 


Chapter  XVII.  Tszc-hea,  being  governor  of  Keu-foo,  asked 
about  government.  The  Master  said,  u  Do  not  be  desirous  to  Iw* 
things  done  quickly;  do  not  look  at  small  advantages.  Desire  to 
have  things  done  quickly  prevents  their  being  done  thoroughly* 
Looking  at  small  advantages  prevents  great  affairs  from  being  ac- 
complished." 

Chapter  XVIIL  1.  The  duke  of  ShS  informed  Confucius,  say- 
ing, "  Among  us  here  there  are  those  who  may  be  styled  upright  in 
their  conduct  If  their  father  have  stolen  a  sheep,  they  will  Dear  wit- 
ness to  the  fact" 

2.  Confucius  said,  "Among  us,  in  our  part  of  the  country,  thosa 
who  are  upright  are  different  from  this.  The  father  conceals  the 
misconduct  of  the  son,  and  the  son  conceals  the  misconduct  of  the 
father.     Uprightness  is  to  be  found  in  this/9 

us  to  the  latter  view.  In  the  ^§S,  accounts 
are  quoted  of  inch  cases,  trat  they  are  probity 
founded  on  this  chap,  jttk  is  'to  steal  on  oc- 
casion,' i.  e^  on  some  temptation,  as  when  sa- 
other  parson's  animal  comes  into  my  ground* 

and  I  appropriate  it  98  seems  to  convey  ha* 
the  idea  of  accusation,  as  well  as  of  witnessing 
2.  (I^^l^r-comp.  IL  18,  3.  T*e  ex- 
press, does  not  absolmtely  affirm  that  this  is  up- 
right, but  that  in  this  there  is  a  better  prin- 
ciple than  in  the  other  conduct.— Any  body  sat 
a  Chinese  will  say  that  both  the  duke's  view  si 
the  subject  and  thr ftage't  were  tocqronkta. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


17.  HaSTBAJTD  SMALL   ADVANTAGE*  WOT  TO 
BB  DSSIUBD  IN  OOTBBKUfO.      KeU-foO  (foo,    Up. 

Sd  tone)  was  a  small  city  in  the  western  bor- 
ders of  Loo.  ^-§T»  the  prohibitive  par- 
ticle. 

18.  Natural  butt  ah©  urmlGirocBss  nr 
Collision.     1.    §  ^,  'our  village,'  'our 

neighbourhood,'  but  jf*  must  be  taken  vague- 
ly, as  in  the  transl.;  comp.  V.  21.  We  cannot 
say  whether  the  duke  is  referring  to  one  or 
more  actual  cases,  or  giving  his  opinion  of  what 
his  people  would  do.    Coat  reply  would  incline 


OOITFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


135 


4&  #  0, 5  96,  If  §  ^  S, 
mlo^  pi  IE  £  "f'WM 


U*u 


?f  B?J^  ±  ^  ±  M  %  _ 

Chapter  XIX.  Fan  Ch'e  asked  about  perfect  virtue.  The  Master 
aaid,  "It  is,  in  retirement,  to  be  sedately  grave;  in  the  management 
•f  business,  to  be  reverently  attentive ;  in  intercourse  with  others,  to 
be  strictly  sincere.  Though  a  man  go  among  rude  uncultivated 
tribes,  these  aucdithes  may  not  be  neglected." 

Chapter  XX.  1.  Tsze-kung  asked,  saying,  "What  qualities  must 
a  man  possess  to  entitle  him  to  be  called  an  officer?"  The  Master 
said,  "  He  who  in  his  conduct  of  himself  maintains  a  sense  of  shame, 
and  when  sent  to  any  quarter  will  not  disgrace  his  prince's  cominis* 
sion,  deserves  to  be  called  an  officer/' 

2.  Tsze-kung  pursued,  "  I  venture  to  ask  who  may  be  placed  in 
the  next  lower  rank?"  and  he  was  told,  "He  whom  the  circle  of  his 
relatives  pronounce  to  be  filial,  whom  his  fellow- villagers  and  neigh- 
bours pronounce  to  be  fraternal." 

3.  Again  the  diwiple  asked,  "  I  venture  to  ask  about  the  class 
still  next  in  order. "  The  Master  said,  "They  are  determined  to  be 
sincere  in  what  they  say,  and  to  carry  out  what  they  do.  They  are 
obstinate  little  men.      i  et  perhaps  they  may  make  the  next  class." 


19.      CHARACTERISTICS    OF    PERFECT   VIRTUS. 

Thit  it  the  third  time  that  Fan  Ch'e  is  repre- 
sented as  quest,  the  Master  about -f^,  and  it  is 
supposed  by  some  to  have  been  the  first  in  order. 
JS  j||  (uP«  2d  tone),  in  oppos.  to  jgffc  ^£,«* 
'dwelling  alone,'  'in  retirement.'  JjJ£  is  a  verb, 

as  in  V.  18,  2,-££, i  to  go  to/ 

90.  Different  classes  of  men  who  in  their 
•bteral  degrees  mat  bb  styled  officers, 


but  the  officer.  "&  JW, '  has  shame,'  i  e^  will 
avoid  all  bad  conduct  which  would  subject  him 
to  reproach.  2.  ~~fjjfe,  is  *  a  designation  for  all 
who  form  one  body  having  the  same  ancestor,' 

-mnmxmzm  »«« 

also  called  "fa  jfjfe,  'nine  branches  of  kindred/ 
being  all  of  the  same  surname  from  the  great* 
great-grandfather  to  the  great-great-grandson, 
j^=^,  not  simply  'brotherly,'  in  the  strict 
sense,  but « submissive,'  giving  due  honour  to  all 


A*U>    THE    INFERIORITY    OF    THE  MASS    OF    TUB 

•FFtoERs  of  Confucius'  time.  1.  J^,— corap. 

on  XU  20.    Here  it  denotes— not  the  scholar,  '  older  than  himself.  3.  SB,  *  the  wrond  of  •tones.* 


136 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


4o0.e-A 


4.  T*ze-hing  finally  inquired,  "Of  what  sort  are  those  of  tlie 
present  day,  who  engage  in  government?"  The  Master  said,  "Pooh! 
they  arc  so  many  pecks  and  hampers,  not  worth  being  taken  into 
account." 

Chapter  XXL  The  Master  said,  "Since  I  cannot  get  men 
pursuing  the  due  medium,  to  whom  I  might  communicate  my 
instructions,  I  must  find  the  ardent  and  the  cautiously-decided, 
The  ardent  will  advance  and  lay  hold  of  truth;  the  cautiously-decided 
will  keep  themselves  from  what  is  wrong." 

Chapter  XXII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "The  people  of  the  south 
have  a  saying — *  A  man  without  constancy  cannot  be  either  a  wizard 
or  a  doctor.'     Good ! 

2.     *f  Inconstant  in  his  virtue,  he  will  be  visited  with  disgrace." 


{Rg  $[{££&  '•tone  like.'    The  diet,  with  ref. 

to  this  passage,  explains  it— yj>  ^  «J, '  the 

appearance  of  a  small  man.'  4.  £\*^$£^ 
L  «m  mere  utensils.    Corap.  on  II.  12. 
2 1,    Con Fuciu8  obliged  to  content  himself 

WITH  TUB  ARDENT  AND  CAUTIOUS   AS   DISCIPLES. 

Comp.  V.  21,  and  Mencins  VII.  iL  87.  ljj|  j£ 

is  explain,  as  in  the  transl. — IM  ^3  4M  X*. 

The  jHr  jfi&,  however,  gives  simply— fiff  j£* 

Pf  |^£> <dwe11  together  with  them/  and  treats 
the  ch.  as  if  it  had  no  reference  to  the  trans- 
mission of  the  sage's  doctrines,  or  to  his  disci- 
ples,   jjfc  j^9  ££  Jg  ^,-^omp.  ch.  3,  2. 

3§f  i»  explained  in  the  diet  by  ^g  —t,  <  con- 
tracted and  urgent.'    Oppos.  to  ££,  it  would 


seem  to  denote  caution,  but  yet  not  a  caution 
which  may  not  be  combined  with  decision,  ^u 

JjJfyK  'JX, '  have  what  they  will  not  do.' 

22.  The  importance  of  fixity  and  con- 
stancy of  mind.  1.  I  translate  TJX  D7  'wizard/ 
for  want  of  a  better  term.  In  the  Chow  Le, 
Bk,  XXVI,  the  woo  appear  sustaining  a  sort 
of  official  status,  regularly  called  in  to  brin» 
down  spiritual  beings,  obtain  showers,  &a  They 
are  distinguished  as  men  and  women,  thougv 
ffi  is  often  feminine,  (a  witch,'  as  opposed 

to  331,  'a  wizard.'  Conf.  use  of  the  saying 
ace.  to  Choo  He,  is  this: — *  Since  such  small 
people  must  have  constancy,  how  much  more 
ought  others  to  have  it  V  The  ranking  of  the 
doctors  and  wizards  together  sufficiently  ahows 
what  was  the  position  of  the  healing  art  in 
those  days. — Ching  K'ang-shing  interpxeU  this 
par.  quite  iiiadniissibly:-—4  wizards  and  doctors 
Digitized  by  vjUOy  IL 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


137 


# 


*  - 

Xlfc     % 


^4,  A 


IE 
Ifl. 


3.    The  Master  said,  "This  arises  simpl v  from  not  prognosticating." 

Chapter  XXIII.  The  Master  said,  "the  superior  man  is  affable, 
/but  not  adulatory ;  the  mean  is  adulatory,  but  not  affable." 

Chapter  XXI V.  Taze-kung  asked  saying,  "  What  do  you  say 
of  a  man  who  is  loved  by  all  the  people  of  his  village?"  The  Mas- 
ter replied,  "We  may  not  for  that  accord  our  approval  of  him.'* 
"And  what  do  you  say  of  him  who  is  hated  by  all  the  people  of 
his  village?"  The  Master  said,  "We  may  not  for  that  conclude 
that  he  is  bad.  It  is  better  than  either  of  these  cases  that  the  good 
in  the  village  love  him,  and  the  bad  hate  him." 

Chapter  XXV.  The  Master  said,  "  The  superior  man  is  easy  to 
serve  and  difficult  to  please.  If  you  try  to  please  him  in  any  way 
which  is  not  accordant  with  right,  he  will  not  be  pleased.  But  in  his 
employment  of  men,  he  uses  them  according  to  their  capacity.     The 


cannot  manage  people  who  have  no  constancy.' 
1  This  Is  a  quotation  from  the  Yin-king,  dia- 
gram f£.    8.  This  k  inexplicable  to  Choo  He. 

Some  bring  out  from  it  the  mean,  in  the  transla- 
tion.—Ching  K*ang-shing  says:— *  By  the  Yih 
*e  prognosticate  good  and  evil,  but  in  it  there  ia 
bo  prognostication  of  people  without  constancy/ 

28.    The  different  max* bus  of  the  sopr- 

BlOa  AMD  THE   MBA1C   MAN.      Comp.   II.    14,    but 

here  the  parties  are  contrasted  in  their  more 
private  intercourse  with  others.  E3,  'agreeing 
*itV«=nattermg. 

24.     HOW,  TO  JUDGE    OF   A   MAN    FROM   THE 
LUUEO*  AND   DISLIKING*   OF   OTHKRS,  WK  M DMT 

»0W  TOE  CHARACTERS  OF  THOSE  0THER8.     ■=£ 


pT,— lit,  'not  yet  may/  The  general  mean.  o| 

a  Chin,  sentence  is  often  plain,  and  yet  we  are 
puzzled  to  supply  exactly  the  subjects,  auxili- 
aries, &c.,  which  other  languages  require.  In 
rendering  the  phrase,  I  hare  followed  many  of 

the  paraphrasts,  who  complete  it  thus?— *Jfc  PfT 

|>&4J1.  In  the  gj  S?,  however,  the  second 
occurrence  of  it  is  expanded  in  the  same  way 
as  the  first. 

25.  Difference  between  the  superior  and 
the  mean  mam  121  their  relation  to  those  em- 
PLOYED BY  THEM.  j^ffijHift(==f$). 

—as  in  the  transl.,  or  we  may  render,— '  is  easily 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


138 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


>*> 


fffT^fA4f 

Iff      M'b 
%     5&A 


%  VI 0, 

^i  m,  m  n» 

,&  #n  pf 


A 


4, 

urn 


lit 


mean  man  is  difficult  to  serve,  and  easy  to  please.     If  you  try  to 

E  lease  him,  though  it  be  in  a  way  which  is  not  accordant  with  right, 
e  may  be  pleased.  But  in  his  employment  of  men,  he  wishes  them 
to  be  equal  to  everything." 

Chapter  XXVI.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  has  a 
dignified  ease  without  pride.  The  mean  man  has  pride  without  a 
dignified  ease.1' 

Chapter  XXVII.  The  Master  said,  "The  firm,  the  enduring, 
the  simple,  and  the  modest,  are  near  to  virtue." 

Chapter  XXVIII.  Tsze-loo  asked  saving,  "  What  qualities  must 
a  man  possess  to  entitle  him  to  be  called  a  scholar?"  The  Master 
said,  "  He  must  be  thus,— earnest,  urgent,  and  bland : — among  his 
friends,  earnest  and  urgent;  among  his  brethren,  bland."   * 

notour  *  wooden.'  It=3fff  >||!|*  'rimple,'  'plain.' 
f£h,  see  IV.  24.    The  gloss  on  it  here  is— 


served,  but  is  pleased  with  difficulty.'  35  ^, 


—see  II.  12,  ffi  being  here  a  verb,    jfc  ^, 
is  the  opposite  of  jffi  j7,  and— JM  ^£  jdr 

W|m K^^t  Jt»  *ne  rei1"^8  *U  capa- 
bilities from  a  single  man.' 

26.  The  diffkhent  air  and  bearing  of  the 
superior  and  ti1k  mean  31  an. 

27.  Natural  qualities  which  are  favour- 
able to  virtue,   y^,  *  wood,'  here  an  adj.,  but 


^rjt,  (slow  and  blunt.'    *  Modest*  seems  to  be 
the  idea. 

28.  Qualities  that  mark  the  scholar  is 
social  intercourse.  This  is  the  same  question 
as  in  ch.  20,  1,  but  J^  is  here  *  the  scholar/  the 
gentleman  of  education,  without  reference  to  uis 
being  iu  office  or  not* 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


1B9 


m  &  vx  m  m  *  £ 


Chapter  XXIX*  The  Master  said,  u  Let  a  pood  man  teach  the 
people  seven  years,  and  they  may  then  likewise  be  employed  in  war.'* 

uhapter  XXX  The  Master  said,  "  To  lead  an  uninstructed  peo- 
ple to  war,  is  to  throw  them  away." 


29.      HOW  THE  GOVERNMENT  OP  A  GOOD  RULER 
WILL  PREPARE  THE  PEOPLE  FOR  WAR.    aS  ^ , 

4ag9od  man.' — spoken  with  reference  to  him 
a*  a  ruler.  The  teaching  is  not  to  he  under- 
stood of  military  training,  but  of  the  duties  of 
life  and  citizenship ;  a  people  so  taught  are  mo- 
rajty  fitted  to  fight  for  their  government.  What 
military  training  may  be  included  in  the  teach- 
Ia&  Would  merely  be  the  hunting  and  drilling 


in  the  people's  repose  from  the  toils  of  agricul- 
ture, jfc,  'weapons  of  war.*  Pi"  W  fflj  jfc 
—'they  may  go  to  their  weapons/ 

30.    That  people  must  be  taught,  to  rna- 
pahe  them  for  war.    Comp.  the  last  ch.    The 

lang.  is  very  strong,  and  35x  being  understood 
as  in  last  ch.,  shows  how  Conf.  valued  education 
for  all  classes. 


BOOK  XIV.  HEEN-WAN. 


M  ^    R 

Chapteu  I.  Heen  asked  what  was  shameful.  The  Master  said, 
"When  good  government  prevails  in  a  state,  to  be  thinking  only  of 
his  salary ;  and,  when  bad  government  prevails,  to  be  thinking r,  in  the 
same  way,  only  of  his  salary ;•— this  is  shameful."  • 

Heading  of  this  Book.— 4£»  $(J  $jfc  -j-  [HJ , 
•Heen  asked— No.  XJTV»'    The  glossarist  King 

ping  ( Jffii^f)  **&*>  *in  tnis  Book  we  nftve  tne 

characters  of  the  Three  Kings,  and  Two  Chiefs, 
'  the  courses  proper  for  princes  and  great  officers, 
the  practice  of  virtue,  the  knowledge  of  what 
is  shameful,  personal  cultivation,  and  the  tran- 
quillizing of  the  people ;— all  subjects  of  great 
importance  in  government.  They  are  therefore 
collected  together,  and  arranged  after  the  last 
chapter  which  commences  with  an  inquiry 
about  government.'  Some  writers  are  of  opinion 
that  the  whole  book  was  compiled  by  Heeu 
Or  Yuen  Sae,  who  appears  in  the  first  chapter. 


1.    It  is  shameful  in  an  officer  to  re  car- 
ing ONLY  A  IK)  IT  HIS  EMOLITMKNT.      HcCIl  is    th© 

Yuen  Sze  of  VI.  8,  and  if  we  suppose  Conf. 
answer  designed  to  have  a  practical  application 
to  himself,  it  is  not  easily  reconcileable  with 
what  appears   of  his  character,  in  that  other 

place.  ||5J,  herc=*jj(&,  *  emolument,'  but  its 
meaning  must  be  pregnant  and  intensive,  as  in 
the  transl.  If  we  do  not  take  it  so,  the  senti- 
ment is  contradictory  to  VIII.  13,  3.  K'uiht 
Gan-kwo,  however,  takes  the  following  view  of 
the  reply :— '  When  a  country  is  well  governed, 
emolumeut  is  right ;  when  a  country  is  ill-go- 
verned !  to  take  office  and  emolument  is  shame- 
ful.' I  prefer  the  construction  of  Choo  He, 
which  appears  in  the  translation. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


140 


CONFOC1AX  AHALCCT8. 


^■tf.Bia 


Chapter  II.  1.  "When  the  love  of  superiority,  boasting,  resent- 
ments, and  covetousneas  are  repressed,  may  this  be  deemed  perfect 
virtue?" 

2.  The  Master  said,  "This  may  be  regarded  as  the  achievement 
of  what  is  difficult.  But  I  do  not  know  that  it  is  to  be  deemed  per- 
fect virtue." 

Chapter  III.  The  Master  said,  "The  scholar  who  cherishes  the 
love  of  comfort,  is  not  fit  to  be  deemed  a  scholar." 

Chapter  IV.  The  Master  said,  "  When  good  government  pre- 
vails in  a  state,  language  may  be  loftv  and  bold,  and  actions  the 
same.  When  bad  government  prevails,  the  actions  may  be  lofty 
and  bold,  but  the  language  may  be  with  some  reserve." 

Chapter  V.  The  Master  said,  "The  virtuous  will  be  sure  to 
speak  correctly,  but  those  whose  speech  is  good  may  not  always  be 
virtuous.  Men  of  principle  are  sure  to  be  bold,  but  those  who  are 
bold  may  not  always  be  men  of  principle." 

IV.  11.    The  ^g  Jg  here  10  akin  to  the  £| 

-{*  there.    Corop.  also  IV.  9. 

4.  What  ohe  dobs  must  always  be  right; 
what  one  feels  seed  not  always  be  spores : 

—A  LESSON  OF  PBCDBHCB.      jBL   fOT  j&.  SS  lit 

VII.  35.  j^,  '  terror  from  being  in  a  trig* 
position,*  then  4  danger,' 4  dangerous.'  It  is  used 
here  in  a  good  sense,  meaning  *  lofty,  and  what 
may  seem  to  be,  or  really  be,  dangerous,'  hb* 
der  a  bad  government,  where  good  principle* 
do  not  prevail. 

5.  We  may  predicate  the  rxtbrhal  v**m 

THE  INTERNAL,  BUT  HOT  VICE   TESSA.      The  « 

=2*  must  be  understood  of  virtuous  speaking 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


2.  The  feaisb  of  perfect  tibtub  is  hot  to 
be  al  lowed  fob  the  bepbessior  of  bad  fbel- 
iKos.  In  Ho  An,  this  ch.  is  joined  to  the 
preceding,  and  Choo  He  also  takes  the  first  par. 
to  be  a  question  of  Yuen  Heen.    1  15*,  *  over* 

coming,'  t.*.,  here^s'  the  love  of  superiority.'  4jjt, 

as  in  V.  36,  8.  *jf\  ^J,  4do  not  go,'  1.  e.,  are 
Hot  allowed  to  hare  their  way,  ■»  are  repressed. 
2.  HI,  'difficult,'— the  doing  what  is  difficult. 

^~*  is  quoad  I"*  j  — *  as  to  its  being  perfect 
Virtue,  that  I  do  not  know.' 

3.  A  SCHOLAR  MUST  BK  AIMING  AT  WHAT  IS 
UIOBEB  TUAJf  COMFORT  OB  FL  ASU&E.      Comp. 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


141 


?fe  H*  A0^*  =?  m  M  %i 

*=  #      ft  m  %  #  H. 


Chapter  VI.  Nan-kung  Kwoh,  submitting  an  inquiry  to  Con- 
fucius,  said,  "  E  was  skilful  at  archery,  and  Ngaou  could  move  a 
boat  along  upon  the  land,  but  neither  of  them  died  a  natural  death. 
Yu  and  Tsein  personally  wrought  at  the  toils  of  husbandry,  and 
they  became  possessors  of  the  empire."  The  Master  made  no  reply ; 
but  when  Nan-kung  Kwoh  went  out,  he  said,  "A  superior  man  in- 
deed  is  this !    An  esteemer  of  virtue  indeed  is  this !" 

Chapter  VII.  The  Master  said,  "  Superior  men,  and  yet  not  al- 
ways virtuous,  there  have  been,  alas !  But  there  never  has  been  a 
mean  man,  and,  at  the  same  time, virtuous." 


and  'virtuously,*  or  'correctly,'  be  gupplied  to 
bring  out  the  sense.    A  translator  is  puzzled 

to  render  4~  s£  differently  from  ^jf  fjS 
5&.  I  have  said  'men  of  principle,'  the  oppo- 
sition being  between  moral  and  animal  courage; 
yet  the  men  of  principle  may  not  be  without 
the  other,  in  order  to  their  doing  justice  to 
themselves. 

6.  EMINENT  PBOWE88  CONDUCTING  TO  RUIN; 
EMINENT  VIRTUE  LEADING  TO  EMPIRE.  TUB  MO- 
DESTY of  Confucius.  Nan-kung  Kw5h  is  said 
by  Choo  He  to  have  been  the  same  as  Nan 
Yung  in  V.  1.  But  this  is  doubtful.  See  on  Nan 
Yung  there.  Kwflh,  it  is  said,  insinuated  in 
his  remark  an  inquiry,  whether  Conf.  was  not 
like  Yu  or  Tseih,  and  the  great  men  of  the  time 
so  many  Es  and  Ngaous;  and  the  sage  was  mo- 
destly silent  upon  the  subject.  £  and  Ngaou 
carry  us  back  to  the  22d  century  before  Christ. 
Ibe  first  belonged  to  a  family  of  princelets,  fa- 
mous, from  the  time  of  the  emperor  fil  (B.  C. 
2432),  for  their  archery,  and  dethroned  the  em- 
peror How  Seang  (J&jjft),  B.  C.  2145.  E  was 


afterwards  slain  by  his  minister,  Han  Tsuh, 

(|£  Jfjjh),  who  then  married  his  wife,  and  one 

of  their  sons  (3E>  Keaou)  was  the  individual 

here  named  Ngaou,  who  was  subsequently  de- 
stroyed by  the  emperor  Shaou-kHmg,  the  post- 
humous son  of  How-seang.    Tseih  was  the  son 

of  the  emperor  g£,  of  whose  birth  many  pro- 
digies are  narrated,  and  appears  in  the  Shoo* 
kto«  «  B  $|,  the  mister  of  agriculture  to 
Yaou  and  Shun,  by  name  «.  The  Chow  family 
traced  their  descent  lineally  from  him,  so  that 
though  the  empire  only  came  to  his  descendant* 
more  than  a  thousand  years  after  his  time, 
Nan-kung  Kwfth  speaks  as  if  he  had  got  it 

lumself,aaYudid\     # -^F  31  ;£  A*-~ 

comp.  V.  2. 

7.  The  highest  virtue  not  easily  attained 
to,  and  incompatible  with  meanness.  Comp.. 
IV.  4.  We  must  supply  the  *  always,'  to  bring 
out  the  meaning. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


142 


COSTtittA*  ANALSCT8. 


E  0,  W0 

ftAH» 


##13.16  0. 

a!    # 


Chapter  VIII.  The  Master  said,  "  Can  there  be  love  which  does 
not  lead  to  strictness  with  its  object?  Can  there  be  loyalty  which 
does  not  lead  to  the  instruction  of  its  object?" 

Chapter  IX  The  Master  said,  "In  preparing  the  governmental 
notifications,  P'e  Shin  first  made  the  rough  draught;  She-shuh  ex- 
amined and  discussed  its  contents ;  Tsze-yu,  the  manager  of  Foreign 
intercourse,  then  made  additions,  or  subtractions ;  and,  finally,  Tsze- 
ch'an  of  Tung-le  gave  it  the  proper  elegance  and  finish." 

Chapter  a.  1.  Some  one  asked  about  Tsze-ch'an.  The  Master 
6aid,  "He  was  a  kind  man." 

2.      He  asked  about  Tsze-se.    The   Master  said,  "That  man! 
That  man!" 

3.  He  asked  about  Kwan  Chung.  "  For  him,"  said  the  Master, 
"  the  city  of  P'een,  with  three  hundred  families,  was  taken  from  tie 
chief  of  the  Pih  family,  who  did  not  utter  a  murmuring  word, 
though,  till  he  was  toothless,  he  had  only  coarse  rice  to  eat. 

government  orders,  covenanta,  and  conferences.' 
See  the  Chow  Le,  XX  V.  p.  1 L  Tsse-ch'aB  (tee 
V.  15,)  wss  the  chief  minister  of  the  State,  awl 
in  preparing  snch  documents  first  used  the  ser* 
rices  of  P'e  Sain,  who  was  noted  for  his  wise 
planning  of  matters.  *  She-shnh'  shows  the  rela- 
tion of  the  officer  indicated  to  the  ruling  fanulr* 

His  name  was  Yew-keih  (|J£  ^>  The  pio- 
Tinceofthe^\waa-^g|6^j|f 


8.      A   LESSOR   FOR  PARENTS  AND  MINISTERS, 
THAT  THEY  MUST  BE  STRICT  AND  DECIDED.    49$, 


being  0  with  gn,  is  a  verb,  and  conveys  the 

meaning  in  the  translation,  dhf.  from  the  mean- 
ing of  the  term  in  Xlll.  5.  Kiing  Gan-kwo 
takes  it  in  the  sense  of  (to  soothe,'  'comfort,' 
low.  3d  tone,  bnt  that  does  not  suit  the  paral- 
lelism. 

9.     TnE  EXCELLENCE  OF  THE  OFFICIAL  NOTI- 
FICATIONS OF  Ch*INO,  OWING  TO  THE  ABILITY  OF 

four  of  its  officers.  The  state  of  Chlng, 
small  and  surrounded  by  powerful  neighbours, 
was  yet  fortunate  in  having  able  ministers, 
through  whose  mode  of  conducting  its  gorern- 
ment it  enjoyed  considerable  prosperity.  <gj^, 
with  ref .  to  tliis  passage,  is  explained  in  the  diet. 


'  to  superintend  the  ceremonies  of  communica- 
tion with  other  states.'     See  the  Chow  le, 
XXXIV.  p.  13. 
1 0.    The  judgment  of  Confucius  cowcxas- 

ING  TSZR-CB'AN,  TsEB-OK,  AND  KWAK  CHUNG.    1 

Sec  V.  15.    2.  Tsze-se  was  the  chief  minister 


8ifl3Bffb?<30  9j 1 


CONFUCIAN   ANALECTS. 


143 


0»  Bi 


b?$  £  tffc  m  I'j  n  n  n  & 

Chapter  XL  The  Master  said,  "  To  be  poor  without  murmuring 
is  difficult.     To  be  rich  without  being  proud  is  easy." 

Chapter  XII.  The  Master  said,  "M&ng  Kung-eh'o  is  more  than 
fit  to  be  chief  officer  in  the  families  of  Chaou  and  Wei,  but  he  is  not 
fit  to  be  minister  to  either  of  the  states  T'&ng  or  See." 

Chapter  XIII.  1.  Tsze-loo  asked  what  constituted  a  complete 
man.  The  Master  said,  "  Suppose  a  man  with  the  knowledge  of 
Tsang  Woo-chung,  the  freedom  from  covetousness  of  Kung-ch'o, 
the  bravery  of  Chwang  of  Peen,  and  the  varied  talents  of  Yen 
K'ew ;  add  to  these  the  accomplishments  of  the  rules  of  propriety 
and  music: — such  an  one  might  be  reckoned  a  complete  man." 

2.  He  then  added,  "  But  what  is  the  necessity  for  a  complete 
man  of  the  present  day  to  have  all  these  things  ?     The  man,  who  in 

of  Two.  He  had  refused  to  accept  the  nomin- 
ation to  the  sovereignty  of  the  state  in  prefer- 
ence to  the  rightful  heir,  hut  did  not  oppose 


the  usurping  tendencies  of  the  rulers  of  Tsoo. 
He  had  moreover  opposed  the  wish  of  king 
Ch*aou  to  employ  the  sage.  8.  Kwan  Chung, 
—see  IIL  22.  To  reward  his  merits,  the  duke 
Hwan  conferred  on  him  the  domain  of  the  offi- 
cer mentioned  in  the  text,  who  had  been  guilty 
of  some  offence.  His  submitting,  as  he  did,  to 
his  changed  fortunes  was  the  best  tribute  to 
Kran's  excellence. 

11.  It  is  harder  to  bear  poverty  aright 
thak  to  carry  riches.  This  sentiment  may 
be  controverted. 

12.  Tub  capvcitt  of  Maxq  Kunq-ch*o\ 
Xung-ch'd  was  the  head  of  the  M&ng,  or  Chung- 
sun  family,  and,  ace.  to  the  *  Historical  Records,' 
»•*  regarded  by  Couf .  inure  than  any  other  great 


man  of  the  times  in  Loo.  His  estimate  of  him 
however,  as  appears  here,  was  not  very  high. 
In  the  sage's  time,  the  government  of  the  state 

of  Tain  (?=r)  was  in  the  hands  of  the  three 

families,  Chaou,  Wei,  and  Han  (fij§[),  which 
afterwards  divided  the  territory  among  them- 
selves, and  became,  as  we  shall  see  in  the  timet 
of  Mencius,  three  independent  principalities. 

^'=^£^Js|'  4head  of  the  miniiter» 
of  a  family,'  often  called  §fl£  SK.    T*ang  was 

a  small  state,  the  place  of  which  is  seen  in  the 
district  of  the  same  name  in  the  dep.  of  Yen» 
chow.  See"  was  another  small  state  adjacent 
to  it. 

13.  Of  the  complete  max  : — a  conversation 
with  Tsze-loo.  1.  Tsang  Woo-chung  had 
beeu  au  officer  of  Loo  in  the  reign  anterior  to 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


144 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


.>> 


the  view  of  gain  thinks  of  righteousness ;  who  in  the  view  of  danger 
is  prepared  to  give  up  his  life ;  and  who  does  not  forget  an  old 
agreement,  however  far  back  it  extends : — such  a  man  may  be  reckon- 
ed a  complete  man."  • 

Chapter  XIV.  1.  The  Master  asked  Kung-ming  Kea  about 
Kung-shuh  W&n,  saying,  "  Is  it  true  that  your  master  speaks  not, 
laughs  not,  and  takes  not?" 

2.  Kung-ming  Kea  replied,  "This  has  arisen  from  the  rej>orters 
going  beyond  the  truth. — -My  master  speaks  when  it  is  the  time  to 
speak,  and  so  men  do  not  get  tired  of  his  speaking.  He  laughs 
when  there  is  occasion  to  be  joyful,  and  so  men  do  not  get  tired  of 
his  laughing.  He  takes  when  it  is  consistent  with  righteousne33  to 
do  so,  and  so  men  do  not  get  tired  of  his  taking,"  The  Master  said, 
"  So !     But  is  it  so  with  him  ?  " 

that  in  which  Conf.  was  horn.  So  great  was 
his  reputation  for  wisdom  that  the  people  gave 

him  the  title  of  a  3|^\»  or  '*&£&'    Woo  was 

his  honor,  epithet,  and  4ul  denotes  his  family 

place,  among  his  brothers.    Chwang,  it  is  said 

by  Choo  He,  after  Chow  ( JH)>  one  of  the  oldest 

commentators,  whose  surname  only  has  come 

down  to  us,  was  ~fc  S  *4r  Jt,  'great  officer 

of  the  city  of  Peen.,  In  the  *  Great  collection 
of  Surnames,'  a  secondary  branch  of  a  family  of 

the  state  of  Tsaou  (W)  having  settled  in  Loo, 
and  being  gifted  with  Peen,  its  members  took 
their  surname  thence.  For  the  history  of  Chwang 

»dofWo©-chung,seethe^jj§,wfoc.  "jf$V[ 


7""^*,- yfc  implies  that  there  was  a  higher 
style  of  man  still,  to  whom  the  epithet  compku 
would  be  more  fully  applicable.  2.  The  Q  k 
to  be  understood  of  Confucius,  though  some 
suppose  that  Tsze-loo.is  the  speaker.    3E  op. 

1st  tone,«=jft»l  'an  agreement,'  '*  covenant;' — 
(a  long  agreement,  he  does  not  forget  the  weids 
of  his  whole  life.'    The  meaning  is  what  ap- 
pears in  the  translation. 
14.    The  character  of  Kotcg-shuh  wait, 

WHO  WAS  SAID  H  EITHER  TO  SPEAK,  KOR  LAC  OH, 

hor  take.  1.  Wan  was  the  hon.  epithet  of  the 
individual  in  question,  by  name  Che  (>££),  «rf 

as  some  say*  Fl  (§|)»  *n  officer  of  be  state  «< 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


145 


#  #h  0,  %  iE^  &o;*  $  it 

Chapter  XV,  The  Master  said,  "  Tsang  Woo-chung,  keeping 
possession  of  Fang,  asked  of  the  duke  of  Loo  to  appoint  a  successor 
to  him  in  his  family.  Although  it  may  be  said  that  he  waa  not 
using  force  with  hj*  sovereign,  I  believe  he  was." 

Chapter  XVI,  ^  The  Master  said,  "The  duke  W*n  of  Tsin  was 
crafty  and  not  upright  The  duke  Hwan  of  Ts'e  was  upright  and 
not  ersfty." 

Chapter  XVII,  1,  Tsze4oo  said,  "The  duke  Hwan  caused  his 
brother  Kew  to  be  killed,  when  Shaou  Hwfth  died  vrith  his  master, 
but  Kwan  Chung  did  not  die.  May  not  I  say  that  he  was  wanting 
in  virtue  ?n 

IB,  but  with  ft  dML  meaning,«»2ft, 'to  force  to 

16,  Thv  diffbbbxt  onmonu  or  thb 
W*k8  Wan  or  Tsim  akd  Hwab  of  Ts'b.  Hwan 
and  Wftn  were  the  two  first  of  the  five  leader* 
of  the  princes  of  the  empire,  who  play  an  im» 
portant  part  in  Chinese  history,  during  tho 
period  of  the  Chow  dynasty  known  as  the  Ch*un 
Ts<ew  (^  igf).    Hwan  ruled  in  Ts«e,  B.  C, 

688-640,  and  Wan  in  Tsin  B,  C,  685-627.  Of 
duke  Qwan,  see  the  next  eh.  The  attributes 
mentioned  by  Conf,  are  not  to  be  taken  abso- 
lutely, but  as  respectively  predominating  in  tho 
two  chiefs, 
17  The  wbbjt  of  Kwah  Cbuvo^a  cobvbbt 

satjob  wrrn  Tsbb-mh),  1.  ^^fift* <the 
duke's  son  Kew,'  but,  to  avoid  the  awkwardness 
of  that  rendering,  I  say — '  his  brother.'    Hwan 

(the  hon.  ep.  His  name  was  /J\  jfj .)  and  Kew 
had  both  been  refugees  in  different  states,  tho 
latter  haying  been  carried  into  Loo,  away  from 
the  troubles  and  dangers  of  Ts*e,  by  the  minis- 
ters, Kwan  Chung  and  Shaou  Hwuh.  On  the 
death  of  the  prince  of  Ts'e;  Hwan  anticipated 
Kew,  got  to  Ts'e,  and  took  possession  of  the 
state.  Soon  after,  he  required  the  duke  of  Loo 
to  put  his  brother  to  death,  and  to  deliver  up 

the  two  ministers,  when  Shaou  (>3  nere=s8B) 
Hwuh  chose  to  dash  his  brains  out,  and  die 
with  his  master,  while  Kwan  Chung  returned 
gladly  to  Ts*e,  took  service  with  Hwan,  became 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


jft 

-shuh 


Wei,    He  was  descended  from  the  duke 
and  was  himself  the  founder  of  the  Kung-shuh 
family,  being  so  designated,  I  suppose,  because 
of  his  relation  to  the  reigning  duke.    Of  Kung" 

BsJag  Sea  nothing  seems  to  be  known.  2.  _t£ 
^£gv-~with  reference  to  Kea's  account  of  Ku*g» 
aMh  Wan,    j§£  ^  jffc  Sfr  intimates  Conf  . 

opinion  that  Kea  was  himself  going  beyond  the 
truth. 

15.      COWDBMBATIOV    OF   TSABO    WoO-CHPBO 
FOR    FOBC1NO     A    FAVOUR     FBOM     HIS     PRINCE, 

Woo-chung  (see  en,  18)  was  obliged  to  fir  from 
lyooy  by  the  animosity  of  the  M&ng  family,  and 

took  refuge  in  Choo  (J^J),  As  the  head  of  the 
Tsang  family,  it  devolved  on  him  to  offer  the 
sacrifices  in  the  ancestral  temple,  and  he  wished 
one  of  his  fealfrbrothtrs  to  be  made  the  head  of 
the  family,  in  his  room,  that  those  might  not  be 
neglected.  To  strengthen  the  application  for 
this,  which  he  contrived  to  get  made,  he  return- 
ed himself  to  the  city  of  Fang,  which  belonged 
to  his  fiuniiv,  and  thence  sent  a  message  to  the 
£o*r^  which  was  tantamount  to  a  threat  that  if 
d»4  application  were  not  granted,  he  would  hold 
possession  of  the  place.  This  was  what  Con- 
fucius condemned, — the  t/{  Kfj  in  a  matter 
which  should  have  been  left  to  the  duke's  grace. 
todtfeciramrtuce.la  the  £  J$ ,  g| 

j^rl-p  —  aja.  ^C  «p.  lit  tone,  as  inch. 


146 


COTFUCIAH  ANALBCT8. 


B  ®  4*M  tZM  &Jn  %  ^ 


4fediWr^  *  IB  #  fc.#  ft 

2.  The  Master  said,  "The  duke  Hwan  assembled  all  the  princes 
together,  and  that  not  with  weapons  of  war  and  chariots: — it  was 
all  through  the  influence  of  Kwan  Chung*  Whose  beneficence  was 
like  his?    Whose  beneficence  was  like  his?" 

Chapter  XVIII.  1.  Tsze-kung  said,  "Kwan  Chung,  I  appre- 
hend, was  wanting  in  virtue.  When  the  duke  Hwan  caused  his 
brother  Kew  to  be  killed,  Kwan  Chung  was  not  able  to  die  with 
him.     Moreover,  he  became  prime  minister  to  Hwan." 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  Kwan  Chung  acted  as  prime  minister  to 
the  duke  Hwan,  made  him  leader  of  all  the  princes,  and  united  and 
rectified  the  whole  empire.  Down  to  the  present  day,  the  people 
enjoy  the  gifts  which  he  conferred.  But  for  Kwan  Chung,  we 
should  now  be  v&earing  our  hair  dishevelled,  and  the  lappets  of  our 
coats  buttoning  on  the  left  side. 


his  prime  minister,  and  made  him  supreme 
arbiter  among  the  various  chiefs  of  the  empire. 
Such  conduct   was   condemned   by  Tsse-loo. 

2fP  ^  is  a  peculiar  expression.  2.  Conf. 
defends  Kwan  Chung,  on  the  ground  of  the 
services  which  he  rendered,  using  £^  in  a  dif- 
ferent acceptation  from  that  intended  by  the 
disciple.     "/^,  upper  1st  tone,  explained  in  the 

diet,  by  JE ,  synonymous  with  ^,  though  the 

fit  2&  makes  out  more  than  nine  assemblages 
of  princes  under  the  presidency  of  duke  Hwan. 

#n  it  t:=i£  *n  £  £  jf. «  *  *« 

translation. 

18.  Tub  merit  of  Kwan  Chung:— a  con- 
versation with  Tsze-kuno.  1.  Tsze-loo's 
doubts  about  Kwan  Chung  arose  from  his  not 


dying  with  the  prince  Kew ;  Tsse-kang*8  turned 
principally  on  his  subsequently  becoming  pre* 

mier  to  Hwan.  2.  fi£  *= JH» '  *°  r^*** T»'  *iedw» 
to  order.*  — >  blends  with  f£  its  own  verbal 
force,-*  to  unite;  ijgfc-  $£,  *  not,'  •  if  not.'  ^jf 
tp'e,  low.  1st  tone,)  ^,— see  the  Le-ke,  IIL 
iii.  14,  where  this  is  mentioned  as  a  character- 
istic of  the  eastern  barbarians.  ^£r  ffi— -see 
the  Shoo-king,  V.  xxv.  13.  A  note  in  the  ^ 
BSsays,  that  anciently  the  right  was  the  position 

of  honour,  and  the  right  hand,  moreover,  is  the 
more  convenient  for  use,  but  the  practice  of  the 
barbarians  was  contrary  to  that  of  China  in 
both  points.  The  sent,  of  Conf.  is,  that  but  for 
Kwan  Chung,  his  countrymen  would  have  sunk 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


147 


#  M  ^  5  X  <&-o^  S  p  p 


&  "  Will  you  require  from  him  the  small  fidelity  of  common 
men  and  common  women,  who  would  commit  suicide  in  a  stream 
er  ditch,  no  one  knowing  any  thing  about  them  ?  " 

Chapter  XIX,  1.  The  officer,  Seen,  who  had  been  family 
minister  to  Kung-shuh  W&n,  ascended  to  the  prince's  court  in  com- 
pany with  Wftn. 

2.  The  Master,  haying  heard  of  it,  said,  "  He  deserves  to  be  con- 
sidered WAN." 

Chapteb  XX.  1.  The  Master  was  speaking  about  the  unprin* 
cipled  course  of  the  duke  Ling  of  Wei,  when  Ke  K'ang  said,  "  Since 
he  is  of  such  a  character,  how  is  it  he  does  not  lose  his  throne?" 

2.      Confucius  said,  "The  Chung-shuh,  Yu,  has  the  superinten- 

to  the  state  of  the  rude  tribes  about  them.    8.        19.    Thb  merit  or  Kung-shuh  Wait  in  re- 

E  ^,  bc  *§,-«*  k.  as.  f$=/^  ff, 

'small  fidelity/  hy  which  is  intended  the  faith- 
folneaa  of  a  married  couple  of  the  common 
people,  where  the  husband  takes  no  concubine 
in  addition  to  his  wife.  The  argument  is  this : — 
4  Do  you  think  Kwan  Chung  should  have  con- 
sidered himself  bound  to  Kew,  as  a  common 
man  considers  himself  bound  to  his  wife  ?  And 
would  you  hare  had  him  commit  suicide,  as 
common  people  will  do  on  any  slight  occasion?' 
Commentators  say  that  there  is  underlying  the 
Abdication  this  fact:— that  Kwan  Chung  and 
Sbaou  Hwuh's  adherence  to  Kew  was  wrong  in 
the  first  place,  Kew  being  the  younger  brother. 
Chang's  conduct  therefore  was  not  to  be  judged 
as  if  Kew  had  been  the  senior.  There  is  nothing 
of  this,  however,  in  Confucius'  words.  He  vindi- 
cates Chung  simply  on  the  ground  of  his  sub- 
sequent services,  and  his  reference  to  *  the  email 
fidelity'  of  husband  and  wife  among  the  com- 
mon people  is  very  unhappy.  |||  ^,  'to 
strangle  one's-self,'  but  in  connection  with 
jBfr  ifi>  the  ph***6  must  1*  understood  gener- 


aBy,=-'to  commit  sukiaV 


19. 

COMMENDING  TO  OFFICE  A   MAN  OF  WOBTH.      1. 

Kung-shuh  Wan,— see  ch.  14.  The  par.  is  to 
be  understood  as  intimating  that  Kung-shuh, 
seeing  the  worth  and  capacity  of  his  minister, 
had  recommended  him  to  his  sovereign,  and 
afterwards  was  not  ashamed  to  appear  in  the' 
same  rank  with  him  at  court  ^^,=  our 
'duke's,'  i.e.,  the  duke's  court.  2.  ^,  as  an 
honorary  epithet,  sometimes  means — $gfy  Jj}^ 
f££  /ffr,  'He  who  confers  on  a  common  man 
rank  and  office.' 

20.  Thb  importance  of  good  and  able 
ministers: — seen  in  the  state  of  Wei.  1. 
Ling  was  the  hon.  epithet  of  Yuen  (  j£),  duke  of 
Wei.  B.  C.  538-492.  He  was  the  husband  of 
Nan-tsze,  VI.  26.  2.  The  Chung-shuh,  Yu,  is 
the  K'ung  Wan  of  V.  14.  $1  ^  express  his 
family  position,  according  to  the  degrees  of  kin- 
dred. « The  litanist,  T'o,'— see  VI.  14.  Wang- 
sun  Kea,-— see  1U.  13. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


148 


canruciAB  abalech* 


%  &>&m  $  m  £  BJL3E 

A*  tr   "W  *C  nJJ»  *"\  IPo  «   >5  ™ 

;§"  5fc  f- J§  JW    #,     & 

dence  of  his  guests  and  of  strangers ;  the  litatiist,  T'o,  has  the  manage 
ment  of  his  ancestral  temple ;  and  Wang-sun  Kea  has  the  direction 
of  the  army  and  forces :— with  such  officers  as  these,  how  should  he 
lose  his  throne?" 

Chaftcsh  XXL  The  Master  said,  "  He  who  speaks  without  iio- 
desty  will  find  it  difficult  to  make  his  words  good." 

Chapter  XXII.  1.  Ohln  Shing  murdered  the  duke  Keen  of 
Ts'e. 

2.  Confucius  bathed,  went  to  court,  and  informed  the  duke  Gae, 
saying,  "  Ch*in  HSng  has  slain  his  sovereign.  I  beg  that  you  will 
undertake  to  punish  him.M 

3.  The  duke  said,  "  Inform  the  chiefs  of  the  three  families  of  it" 

4.  Confucius  retired)  and  said,  "Following  in  the  rear  of  the 
great  officers,  I  did  not  dare  not  to  represent  such  a  matter,  and  my 
prince  says,  4  Inform  the  chiefs  of  the  three  families  of  it.'" 


SI.     EXTBAYAOAftT  tmOB  HABD  TO  M  MADB 

eooD.    Comp.  IV.  22. 
22.    How  CoHFucioa  wishbd  to  aybvob  thb 

XtJRDBB  Or  THE  DDK!  OF  Ts*B  :— HIS  BIGHTBOU8 

amd  public  spirit.  1.  Kit*, — *  indolent  in  not 
A  single  rirttie,'  and  '  tranquil,  not  speaking  un- 

adrisedly,'  are  the  meanings  attached  to  f|fi, 

as  an  hon*  epithet,  while  Jgfr  indicates,  'tran- 

qniilizer  of  the  people,  and  establisher  of  govern- 
ment.'   The  murder  of  the  duke  Keen  by  his 

officer,  Chin  Hang  (|g),  took  place*  B.  C.  4$0, 

barely  two  years  before  Conf*  death.    2.  ^t 

y&  implies  all  the  fasting  and  all  the  solemn 
preparation,  as  for  a  sacrifice  or  other  great 
occasion.  Properly,  ^t  is  to  wash  the  hair 
with  the  water  in  which  rice  has  been  Washed* 
and  Jgt  is  to  wash  the  body  with  hot  water* 


SI  ^N"  >2r"*5C*  *° tbe  •cccmnt  °* tni>  mAt* 
ter  In  the  ^  fS»  Conf.  meant  that  the  duke 
Gae  should  himself,  with  the  forces  of  Loo,  un- 
dertake the  punish,  of  the  regicide.  Some  bkkL 
coram,  cry  out  against  this.  The  sage's  advice, 
they  say,  would  have  been  that  the  duke  should 
report  the  thing  to  the  emperor,  and  with  hi* 
authority  associate  other  princes  with  manetf 

to  do  justice  oil  the  offender.    8.  4r  #  ■■■£ 

■¥•*-- this  is  the  use  of  ^  in  XL  24,  etd.  4. 
This  Is  taken  as  the  remark  of  Confucius,  or 
his  colloquy  with  himself,  when  he  had  gene 

out  from  the  duke.  ]&^jfckJiZ& 
—see  XI.  7.  The  5j|^leares  the  sentence  incsm* 
plete ; — *  my  prince  says,  Inform  the  three  cbkto 
of  it; — this  circumstance.'     The  paraphrsftf 

complete  the  sentence  by  4S  fflj,— 'Howis* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQTC 


coirruciAN  analects. 


149. 


iam 


|a»J 


II  W  11  7i  pT>  B> 

«  3E  A.* ;§•      W*B,H 


EM 

fa  ft5 


4oWT 


K=f 


fc* 


5.  He  went  to  the  chiefs,  and  informed  them,  but  they  would 
not  act.  Confucius  then  said,  "  Following  in  the  rear  of  the  great 
officers,  I  did  not  dare  not  to  represent  such  a  matter." 

Chapter  XXIII.  Tsze-loo  asked  how  a  sovereign  should  be 
served.  The  Master  said,  "  Do  not  impose  on  him,  and,  moreover, 
withstand  him  to  his  face.'9 


Chapter  XXIV.    The  Master  said,  "The  progress  of  the  supe- 

or  man  is  upwards ;  the  progress  of  the  mean  man  is  downwaras." 

Chapter  aXV.    The  Master  said,  "  In  ancient  times,  men  learned 


with  a  view  to  their  own  improvement.  Now-a-days,  men  learn 
With  a  view  to  the  approbation  of  others." 

Chapter  XXVL  L  Keu  Pih-yuh  sent  a  messenger  with  friend- 
ly inquiries  to  Confucius. 

2.  Confucius  sat  with  him,  and  questioned  him.  "  What,"  said 
he,  "is  your  master  engaged  in?"    The  messenger  replied,    "My 

ttat  the  prince,  W  5>£  =•  "^'~^  U  the 
Yerh-'togoto.'    ^L^r  0»"Zr^»— This 


tou  spoken  to  the  chiefs,  to  reprove  them  for 
their  disregard  of  a  crime,  which  concerned 
erery  public  man. 

28.     HOW  TUB  MINISTER  OF  A  PRINCE  MUST  BE 
intOBBB  AND  BOLDLY  UPRIGHT.      ^P  ^  U  Well 

expressed  by  the  phrase  in  the  translation.  See 

the  Le-ke,  IL  L  12,  where  it  appears  that  to  ^|l 

wis  required  by  the  duty  of  a  minister,  hut  not 
•Hewed  to  a  son. 


24.      THE  DIFFERENT   PROGRESSIVE   TENDER- 
CIR8  OF  THE  SUPERIOR  MAN  AND  THE  MEAN  MAN. 

Ho  An  takes  %£t  in  the  sense  of  Q&L  'to 


un- 


derstand.'   The  modern  view  seems  better. 

25.  The  different  motites  of  learners 
in  old  times,  and  in  the  times  of  confucius. 

%  B>  %  A'  <for  Aem§ehrei>  for  0** 
men.'    The  meaning  is  as  in  the  translation. 

26.  AN  ADMIRABLE  MESSENGER.      1.  Pih-FUh 

wm  the  designation  of  Keu  Yuen  (£§)>  *& 


Digitized  by " 


>gl 


150 


COHTUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


&>ffr 

f-  #  =f  m  0, 

3fc^£  a;. 

W  %  %  ¥ .  £, 

w  tfi  it  €  w 

m  £  £  ^0* 

#0It 


master  is  anxious  to  make  his  faults  few,  but  he  has  not  yet  sue* 
ceeded."  He  then  went  out,  and  the  Master  said,  "A  messenger 
indeed !    A  messenger  indeed !" 

Chapter  XXVII.  The  Master  said,  "  He  who  is  not  in  any  par- 
ticular office,  has  nothing  to  do  with  plans  for  the  administration 
of  its  duties." 

Chapter  XXVIII.  The  philosopher  TsXng  said,  "The  superior 
man,  in  his  thoughts,  does  not  go  out  of  his  place." 

Chapter  XXIa.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  is  mo- 
dest in  his  speech,  but  exceeds  in  his  actions." 

Chapter  AXX.  1.  The  Master  said,  "The  way  of  the  superior 
man  is  threefold,  but  I  am  not  equal  to  it.  Virtuous,  he  is  free  from 
anxieties ;  wise,  he  is  free  from  perplexities ;  bold,  he  is  free  from  fear." 

2.     Tsze-kung  said,  "  Master,  that  is  what  you  yourself  say." 


officer  of  the  state  of  Wei,  and  a  disciple  of  the 
sage.  His  place  is  now  1st  east  in  the  outer 
court  of  the  temples.  Conf.  had  lodged  with 
him  when  in  Wei,  and  it  was  after  his  return  to 
Loo  that  Pih-yuh  sent  to  inquire  for  him. 

27.  A  repetition  of  VIL  14. 

28.  The  thoughts  or  a  superior  man  tn 
harmony  with  his  POSITION.  Tsing  here  quotes 

from  the  J& ,  or  illustration,  of  the  62d  dia- 
gram of  the  Yih-king,  but  he  leaves  out  one 
character, — J^j[  before  JH>,  and  thereby  alters 
the  meaning  somewhat.  What  is  said  in  the  Tih, 
is — *  The  superior  man  is  thoughtful,  and  so  does 
not  go  out  of  his  place.'— The  eh*,  it  is  said,  is  in- 


serted here,  from  its  analogy  with  the  preceding. 

29.  Tub  superior  man  mors  in  deeds  than 

in  words.    Jj|k  j£  W,-~ ^  <is  Mniimed  °* 
his  words.'    Comp.^ch.  21,  and  IV.  22. 

30.  Confucius'  humble  estimate  or  himself, 
which  Tsze-kung  denies.  1.  We  have  the 
greatest  part  of  this  par.  in  IX.  28,  but  the 
translation   must  be   somewhat   different,  as 

in^f*'  $3?^if*>  Jl^lf*'  Me  &ew  to  apposition 

#f  VA  3§5  *H  %k> l  what  t^p***  **> 

takes  to  be  his  path.'   2.  jj|pa»=3>>  'to  tqr.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIc 


CONFUCIAH  ANALECTS. 


151 


A.1?  fin  ft*«A»A. 
&  75  Jx  ^ 0*      B     A 


Chapter  XXXI.  Tsze-kung  was  tn  ffo  habit  of  comparing  men 
together.  The  Master  said,  "TVze  must  have  reached  a  high  pitch 
of  excellence !     Now,  I  have  not  leisure  for  this" 

Chapter  XXXII.  The  Master  said,  "  I  will  not  be  concerned  at 
men  s  not  knowing  me ;  I  will  be  concerned  at  my  own  want  of 
ability." 

Chapter  XXXIII.  The  Master  said,  "  He  who  does  not  anti- 
cipate attempts  to  deceive  him,  nor  think  beforehand  of  his  not 
being  believed,  and  yet  apprehends  these  things  readily  when  they 
occur ; — is  he  not  a  man  of  superior  worth  ?" 

Chapter  XXXIV.  1.  We-shang  Mow  said  to  Confucius,  "  K'ew, 
how  is  it  that  you  keep  roosting  about?  Is  it  not  that  you  are  an 
insinuating  talker?" 

2.  Confucius  said,  "  I  do  not  dare  to  play  the  part  of  such  a 
talker,  but  I  hate  obstinacy." 

be  disobedient,'  *  to  rebel ;'  also,  *  to  meet,'  and 
here  '  to  anticipate,'  L  e^  in  judgment.  Jjjj  vfc 
see  XTTT.  19,  but  the  meaning  is  there  *  perhaps/ 
while  here  the  Jtfj  is  adversative,  and^'but.' 

^fe  ft  %k  ** used  m  °pp°ti*io11  *>  -fi|  ft 

^j&aiKWaquick  apprehender,  one  who  under- 
stands things  before  others.'  So,  Choo  He.  K*ung 
Gan-kwft,  however,  takes  Jjfa  as  conjunctive,  and 

ytt  ft  m  aPP°*ition  **&  the  two  preceding 
characteristics,  and  interprets  the  conclusion — 
'Is  such  a  man  of  superior  worth?'  On  Choo 
He's  view,  the  5Gl  u  exclamatory. 

84.  CONFUCIUS  NOT  SSLF-WILLBD,  AND  TST 
KO  OLIB-TONOUBD  TALKER: — DKFBNCB  OF  HIM* 
ttBLT  FROM  UBKCJUMS  OF  AN  AG KD  KBFROVUL  lj 


SI.    One's   work   is   with  onb's-sblf: — 

AGAINST  MAKING  COMPARISONS.    S  5&>  ^= 

*Ha!  is  he  not  superior?'  The  remark  is 
ironical. 

92.  Concern  should  bb  about  our  personal 
attainment,  and  not  about  thb  estimation  of 
others.  8ee  I.  16,  et  al  A  critical  canon  is 
hud  down  here  by  Choo  He:— *  All  passages, 
the  same  in  meaning  and  in  words,  are  to  be 
understood  as  having  been  spoken  only  once, 
snd  their  recurrence  is  the  work  of  the  compilers. 
Where  the  meaning  is  the  same  and  the  lan- 
guage a  little  different,  they  are  to  be  taken  as 
having  been  repeated  by  Confucius  himself; 
with  the  variations.'  According  to  this  rule,  the 
sentiment  in  this  chapter  was  repeated  by  the 
master  in  four  different  utterances. 

88.  Quick  discrimination  without  suspi- 
GIOUWEBft  IS  UlQHItX    MKBUORIOCa. 


s 


to 


152 


COHTOCIAM  AKALSCTS. 


4&  H  £M  ^  Ufa 


ML  Mm 

'imiBk 


Chapter  XXXV.  The  Master  Baid,  "A  horse  is  called  a  tlef 
not  because  of  its  strength,  but  because  of  its  other  good  qualities.** 

Chapter  XXXVL  1.  Some  one  said,  "  What  do  you  say  con- 
cerning the  principle  that  injury  should  be  recompensed  with 
kindness?" 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  With  what  then  will  you  recompense  kind- 
ness? 

3.  "  Recompense  injury  with  justice,  and  recompense  kindness 
with  kindness/ 

Chapter  XXXVII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Alas!  there  is  no  one 
that  knows  me." 

2.  Tsze-kung  said,  "What  do  you  mean  by  thus  saying-— that 
no  one  knows  you  ?"   The  Master  replied,  "  I  do  not  murmur  against 

tice.— How  far  the  ethics  of  Confucius  full  be- 
low  the  Christian  standard  is  evident  from  this 
chapter.  The  same  expressions  are  attributed 
to  Confucius  in  the  Le-ke,  XXXII.  II,  and  it 

isthereadded^g,J^t^^^fl||g 

J|>;£  £;  (-  \  \  which  is  explained,—'  He 

who  returns  good  for  evil  is  a  man  who  is  care- 
ful of  his  person,'  u  «.,  will  try  to  avert  danger 
from  himself  by  such  a  course.    The  author  of 

the  H  gj  says,  that  the  injuries  intended  by 

the  questioner  were  only  trivial  matters,  which 
perhaps  might  be  dealt  with  in  the  way  he 
mentioned,  but  great  offences,  as  those  against 
a  sovereign,  a  father,  may  not  be  dealt  with  by 
such  an  inversion  of  the  principles  of  justice. 
The  Master  himself,  however,  does  not  fence 
his  deliverance  in  any  way. 

37.    Confucius,  lamintino  that  men  did 
not  know  him,  rests  in  thb  thought  that 

HEAVEN  KNEW  HIM.      1.   J^[  ^ffc  ^J,— the  H> 

version  for  ^  %$l  ;Jj£,  'does  not  know  me.' 
He  referred,  comm.  say,  to  the  way  in  which 
he  pursued  his  course,  simply  >jgj  £Ji,  out  of 
his  own  conviction  of  duty,  and  for  his  own  im- 
provement, without  regard  to  success,  or  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


From  We-shang's  addressing  Conf  .  by  his  name, 
it  is  presumed  that  he  was  an  old  man.  Such  a 
liberty  in  a  young  man  would  have  been  im- 
pudence. It  is  presumed  also,  that  he  was  one  of 
those  men  who  kept  themselves  retired  from 

the  world  in  disgust.  Jjj,  'to  perch  or  roost,' 
as  a  bird,  used  contemptuously  with  ref.  to 
Conf.  going  about  among  the  princes  and  wishing 

to  be  called  to  office.    %.  (gj^ffifc- 

4  holding  to  one  idea  without  intelligence.' 

35.      YlBTOB,    AXD    NOT    STRENGTH,    THX    FIT 

subject  or  praise,    fit  was  the  name  of  a 

famous  horse  of  antiquity  who  could  run  1000 
U  in  one  day.    See  the  diet,  in  voc.    It  is  here 
used  generally  for  '  a  good  horse ' 
86.    Good  is  not  to  bb  returned  for  btil  ; 

BVIL    TO    BB    MBT    SIMPLY    WITH    JUSTICE,       1. 

$h$l  M>  '"•"to6"-'  $&>  •»"««""»v 

'hatred/ here  put  for  what  awakens  resentment, 


'wrong/'injury/    The  phrase 

is  found  in  the  j|f  ^|£  of  Laou-tsze,  H.  68, 
but  it  is  likely  that  Conf.  questioner  simply 
consulted  him  about  it  as  a  saying  which  he 
had  heard  and  was  inclined  to  approve  himself. 

2.  |£j[  jf[y  'with  straightness,'  l  e^  with  jus- 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


153 


Rift  &  =f- *#  @  4R 


3fl 


Hi: 


Heaven,  I  do  not  grumble  against  men.  My  studies  lie  low,  and 
my  penetration  rises  high.  But  there  is  Heaven; — that  knows 
me!" 

Chapter  XXXVIII.  1.  The  Kung-pih,  Leaou,  having  slandered 
Tsze-loo  to  Ke-sun,  Tsze-fuk  King-pih  informed  Confucius  of  it, 
saying,  "Our  master  is  certainly  being  led  astray  by  the  Kung-pih, 
Leaou,  but  I  have  still  power  enough  left  to  cut  Leaou  off,  and  ex- 
pose his  corpse  in  the  market  and  in  the  court." 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  If  my  principles  are  to  advance,  it  is  so 
ordered.  If  they  are  to  fall  to  the  ground,  it  is  so  ordered. 
What  can  the  Kung-pih,  Leaou,  do,  where  such  ordering  is  con- 
cerned?" 


opinions  of  others.  2.  ^^jjt^L&l^p 
ffiA ,  '  what  is  that—no  man  knows  you.  ?  '    ~T\ 

*j&,  J2  jS> — 'beneath  I  learn,  above  I  pene- 
trate;'— the  meaning  appears  to  be  that  he  con- 
tented himself  with  the  itudy  of  men  and 
things,  common  matters  as  more  ambitious  spi- 
rits would  deem  them,  but  from  those  he  rose 
to  understand  the  high  principles  involved  in 
them,- -« the  appointments  of  Heaven  (  Jz&fV 
According  to  one  commentator.    ^g||  3£  5§*, 

IHI  ^  .3d,— 'He  who  knows  me — is  that 
Heaven?4 

88.    How  Coxfuci  us  rested,  a s  to  to e  pro- 
gress OF  HIS  DOCTRINES,  ON  THE  ORDERING   OF 

Heaven:— on  occasion  of  Tsze-loo's  beino 
EutsDERKD.  1.  Leaou,  called  Kung-pih  (lit., 
duke's  uncle),  probably  from  an  affinity  with 
the  ducal  house,  is  said  by  some  to  have  been  a 
disciple  of  the  sage,  but  that  is  not  likely,  as 


we  find  him  here  slandering  Tsze-loo,  that  he 
might  not  be  ablg,  In  his  official  connection  with 
the  Ke  family,  to  carry  the  Blaster's  lessons  in- 
to practice,  -gy  was  the  hon.  ep.  of  Tsze-fuh 
Pih,  an  officer  of  Loo.  ^fc  -¥•  refers  to  Ke- 
sun.  ^^^^,—*  is  having  his  will  deceived.* 
Exposing  the  bodies  tf&if*)  of  criminals,  af- 
ter their  execution,  was  called  jjff.  The  bodies 
of '  great  officers'  were  so  exposed  in  the  court, 
and  those  of  meaner  criminals  in  the  market- 
place, jfr  jjjj}  came  to  be  employed  together, 
though  the  exposure  could  take  place  only  in 
one  place,  just  as  we  have  seen  (7  i&  used 
generally  for  'brother.'  2.  Si  makes  the 
preceding  clause  conditional,  =»'  if.'  &t = 5^ 
^, '  Heaven's  ordering.' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


154 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


^  **  jm»  ^  ^  # 


£ 


H* 


Chapter  XXXIX.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Some  men  of  worth 
retire  from  the  world. 

2.  "  Some  retire  from  particular  countries. 

3.  "  Some  retire  because  of  disrespectful  looks. 

4.  "  Some  retire  because  of  contradictory  language." 
Chapter  XL.    The  Master  said,  "Those  who  have  done  this  are 

seven  men." 

Chapter  XLI.  Tsze-loo  happening  to  pass  the  night  in  Shih-mun, 
the  gate-keeper  said  to  him,  "Whom  do  you  come  from?"  Tsze-loo 
said,  "From  Mr.  K'ung."  "It  is  he, — is  it  not?" — said  the  other, 
"  who  knows  the  impracticable  nature  of  the  times,  and  yet  will  be 
doing  in  them." 

Chapter  XLII.  1.  The  Master  was  playing,  one  day,  on  a  musical 
stone  in  Wei,  when  a  man,  carrying  a  straw  basket^  passed  the  door 


89.  Different  causes  why  men  of  worth 
withdraw  from  public  life,  and  different 
extents  to  which  they  so  withdraw  them- 
SELVES.    1.    J^,  pe.  low.  3d  tone,=*jB^,     2. 

Hi  3flJ, — 'the  next  class/  but  comin.  say  that 
the  meaning  is  no  more  than  '  some,'  and  that 
the  terms  do  not  indicate  any  comparison  of 
the  parties  on  the  ground  of  their  worthiness. 
8.  The  'looks,'  and  'language*  in  par.  4,  are  to 
be  understood  of  the  princes  whom  the  worthies 

wished  to  serve. — Tt  is  observed  in  the  R  gpt 

g£r  =f§-  J5&  i|&  that  Conf.  could  never  bear 
to  withdraw  himself  entirety  from  the  world. 
40.    The  numbeu  op  men  of  worth  who  had 

WITHDRAWN  FROM    PtTBLIC   LIFE  IN    CONFUCIUS' 

time.  This  ch.  is  understood,  both  by  Choo  He 
and  the  old  commentators,  in  connection  with  the 
preceding,  as  appears  in  the  translation.    Choo, 

however,  explains  Mp  by  j|g,  'have  arisen.' 
The  others  explain  it  by  ijjL  'have  done  this.1 


They  also  give  the  names  of  the  seven  men, 
which,  ace  to  Choo,  is  j|S,  ' chiselling/  is, 
forcing  out  an  illustration  of  the  text. 

41.  Condemnation  of  Confucius'  course  ut 

SEEKING    TO   BE    EMPLOYED,   BT    ONE    WHO    HAD 

withdrawn  from  public  lifk.  The  site  of 
Shih-mun  is  referred  to  the  district  of  Ch*ang- 

tsing,  dep.  Ts*e-nan,  in  Shan-tung.    j&  p^, 

'morning  gate,' — a  designation  of  the  keeper,  as 
having  to  open  the  gate  in  the  morning.  Ho 
was  probably  one  of  the  seven  worthies,  spoken 
of  in  the  prcced.  chapter.  We  might  trans- 
late 2J  ffl  by  'Stony-gate.'  It  seems  to 
have  been  one  of  the  frontier  passes  between 
Ts'e  and  Loo.  ^  ^,  'the  K'ung/  or  Mr. 
K'ung.  Observe  the  force  of  the  final  fi^. 

42.  The  judgement  of  a  retired  worthy 
on  confucifts*  course,  and  remark  of  confd- 
cius  therbov.  1.  The  hing  was  one  of  the 
eight  musical  instruments  of  the  Chinee* ;  see 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


155 


iff 


•if 


•UL,  0, Ef, 

Wf  «  it 

*  UJ  B  HE? 
£,  MM  W 

of  the  house  where  Confucius  was,  and  said,  "His  heart  is  full  who 
so  beats  the  musical  stone." 

2.  A  little  while  after,  he  added,  "How  contemptible  is  the  one- 
ideaed  obstinacy  those  sounds  display  !  When  one  is  taken  no  notice 
of,  he  has  simply  at  once  to  give  over  his  urish  for  public  employment. 
'Deep  water  must  be  crossed  with  the  clothes  on  j  shallow  water  may 
be  crossed  with  the  clothes  held  up.' " 

3.  The  Master  said,  "How  determined  is  he  in  his  purpose! 
But  this  is  not  difficult." 

Chapter  XLIII.  1.  Tsze-chang  said,  "What  is  meant  when  the 
*hoo  says  that  Kaou-tsung,  whfle  observing  the  usual  imperial 
mourning,  was  for  three  years  without  speaking?" 

2.  The  Master  said,  "Why  must  Kaou-tsung  be  referred  to  as  an 
example  of  this?  The  ancients  all  did  so.  When  the  sovereign 
died,  the  officers  all  attended  to  their  several  duties,  taking  instruc- 
tions from  the  prime  minister  for  three  years." 

Medhurst's  diet.,  in  voc.  j[B,  up.  1st  tone,  'to 
go  by.'  Meaning  '  to  go  beyond,'  *  to  exceed,' 
it  is  in  the  3d  tone.  ^Aj>  r^  ^^^  ^ 
to  be  read  as  one  sentence,  and  understood  as  if 
there  were  a  Rafter  the ^j£.  2.  ^^^» 
— see  Xm.  24,  3.  The  4$  *t=t  interprets  this 
clause  also,  as  if  a  ^  were  after  the  i£,  and 
$$  53  had  reference  to  the  sounds  of  the 
King.    >^£  J||j.^L.^L-- see  She-king  I.  iii.9. 

Bt  1.  The  quotation  was  intended  to  illustrate 
that  we  must  act  according  to  circumstances. 

4.  5J?=ltt-  /£  Kerns  to  be  a  mere  expletive. 


43.    HOW  GOVERNMENT  WAS  CARRIED  ON  DUR- 
ING THE  THKEE  YEARS  OF  SILENT   MOURNING    BY 

the  emperor.  1.  jf>  tt, — see  the  Shoo-king, 
IV.  viii.  Sect  1. 1,  but  the  passage  there  is  not 
exactly  as  in  the  text.  It  is  there  said  that 
Kaou-tsung,  after  the  three  years'  mourning* 
still  did  not  speak.  Jg*  £j2  was  the  honorary 
epithet  of  the  emperor  Woo-ting  ( jj£  ~J~)» 

B.  C.  1323-1268.     ^(Shoo,  JjjjC) R&  (read 

gan),  ace.  to  the  diet.,  means  '  the  shed  where 
the  mourner  lived  the  three  years.'  Choo  He 
says  he  does  not  know  the  meaning  of  the 
terms. — Tsze-chang  was  perplexed  to  know  how 
government  could  be  carried  on  during  so  long 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


156 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS, 


naan  ~ 


3rB 

me 


Mnm^    ± 

ft  A  W  0, 

Chapter  XLIV.  The  Master  said,  "When  rulers  love  to  observe 
the  rules  of  propriety,  the  people  respond  readily  to  the  calls  on 
them  for  service/' 

Chapter  XLV.  Tsze-loo  asked  what  constituted  the  superior 
man.  The  Master  said,  "The  cultivation  of  himself  in  reverential 
carefulness."  "And  is  this  all?"  said  TszeAoo.  "He  cultivates 
himself  so  as  to  give  rest  to  others,"  was  the  reply.  "And  is  this 
all?"  again  asked  Tsse-loo.  The  Master  said,  " He  cultivates  him- 
self so  as  to  give  rest  to  all  the  people.  He  cultivates  himself  so  as 
to  give  rest  to  all  the  people :— even  Yaou  and  Shun  were  still 
solicitous  about  this." 

Chapter  XLVI.  Yuen  Jang  was  squatting  on  his  heels,  and 
so  waited  the  approach  of  the  Master,  who  said  to  him,  "  In  youth, 


IN 


a  period  of  silence.  2.  "jtjf  ^  ^,— the  ^ 
embraces  the  emperors,  and  subordinate  prince* 
who  had  their  own  pettj  courts,    jjttj  2*,— in 

*##»•«■-■*-***&.  ** 

M  #t  M  ifc>  M  fa  *°  mtm^-  ^ 

meaning  is,  that  they  did  not  dare  to  allow 
themselYes  any  license/  The  expression  is  not 
an  easy  one.    I  hare  followed  the  paraphrasts. 

44.  How  a  love  of  the  bules  of  propriety 

1*  RULERS  FACILITATES  OOTBEJIXEST. 

45.  Reverrmt  8mlf-ci;ltvation  the  Disrof- 

OUISQINO   CHARACTERISTIC   OF  THE  KbCK-TSZB. 

\}X  Sjfc  ifc  *•  ftaid'  Are  not  to  be  taken  as  the 
therewith  of  the  Keurt-tszc  in  his  cultivating 
himself,  but  as  the  chief  thing  which  he  keeps 

before  liim  in  the  process.  I  translate  IA9 
therefore,  by  m»  but  in  the  other  sentences,  it  in- 
dicates the  realizations,  or  consequences,  of  the 

4&  2j  •  ||j  j£fe> — ' tne  hundred  surnames/  as 
a  designation  for  the  mass  of  the  people,  occurs 


at  early  as  in  the  Yaom  km  (Jfe  Jj^).  It*=» 

U  *§£  jtt»  <the  'arnames  of  the  hundred 
families;  into  which  number  the  families  of  the 
people  were  perhaps  divided  at  a  very  early 
time.  The  surnames  of  the  Chinese  no* 
amount  to  several  hundreds.    The  small  work-* 

I=f  2§C  £fe  Jfr  made  in  d»  S*"*  dynasty, 
contains  nearly  450.  In  the  ^  g£,  afe, 
we  find  a  ricficulous  reason  given  for  the  sb** 
names  being  a  hundred,  to  the  effect  that  ti» 
ancient  sages  gave  a  surname  for  each  of  the  4 
notes  of  the  scale  in  music,  and  of  the  5  great 
relations  of  life  and  of  the  4  seas ;  consequently, 
5x5x4=100/  Itbtobeobserred,thaiinU* 
Shoo-king,  we  find  *  a  hundred  surnames,*  inter- 
changed with  ^|  j£t '  ten  thousand  surname*/ 
and  it  would  seem  needless,  therefore,  to  seek 
to  attach  a  definite  explanation  to  the  number. 

46.      COXFCCIUS*  COMDCCT  TO  AW  UHXlHVBRt* 
OLD  MAN  OF  HIS  ACQUAINTANCE.      Yuen  Jang  WS* 

an  old  acquaintance  of  Confucius,  bat  had  adopt- 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


157 


&  it  it  =?m 


#4** 


£§  f 


5&W 


->>* 


S^o  npk  W^o  ^E    ^1 

Hot  humble  as  befits  a  junior;  in  manhood,  doing  nothing  worthy 
of  being  handed  down ;  and  living  on  to  old  age  : — this  is  to  be  a 
pest."     With  this  he  hit  him  on  the  shank  with  his  staff. 

Chapter  XLVII.  1.  A  youth  of  the  village  of  K'euSh  was 
employed  by  Confucius  to  carry  the  messages  between  him  and  his 
visitors.  Some  one  asked  about  him,  saying,  "  I  suppose  he  has 
made  great  progress." 

2.  fhe  Master  said,  "I  observe  that  he  is  fond  of  occupying  the 
tea&ofafull-groum  man;  I  observe  that  he  walks  shoulder  to  shoulder 
with  his  elders.  He  is  not  one  who  is  seeking  to  make  progress 
in  learning.    He  wishes  quickly  to  become  a  man." 

ed  the  principles  of  Laou-tsse,  and  gave  himself    2d  person,  bat  it  is  perhaps  better  to  keep  to 

extraordinary  license  in  his  behaviour.— See  an     *■»  8d,  leaving  the  application  to  be  understood. 

instaiioeintheLe.ke,n.Pt.ILiii.24.  f§>(&  Confuci^  emplotmeht  of  a  fobwabd 

—the  diet,  explains  the  two  words  together  by 

JH  >(£  J£  4j5,  but  that  is  the  meaning  of 

J^J  alone,  and  ^=-^p,  «to  wait  for.'    So, 

the  commentators,  old  and  new.    The  use  of 

|j^  in  this  sense  is  thus  explained :— 'The  jQJ| 

Jlp  is  fond  of  squatting,  and  is  therefore  called 

the  squatting  cA's  (£j|  J(||),  but  it  is  called  by 

some  the  ck'e  t  (Jfl||  |^),  and  hence  }fe  is 

Usedforj^|,  to  squat!'  See  the  ^  gg,  tit  foe. 

3£for*g,and#Jfor$.    $,-in  the 

•ense  of  JJj$^|^=dur  ♦pest,'  rather  than  'thief.* 

the  address  of  Conf*  might  be  translated  in  the 


-rout h.  1.  h5|  js, — there  is  a  tradition  that 
Confucius  lived  and  taught  in  B9  J^,  but  it 
i^much  disputed.  $#!|#||i£ 
H? ' '  3v  »H  means  to  convey  the  messages 
between  visitors  and  the  host'  2&  St  §l>— 
the  inquirer  supposed  that  Conf.  employment 
of  the  lad  was  to  distinguish  him  for  the  pro- 
gress which  he  had  made.  2.  According  to 
tile  rules  of  ceremony,  a  youth  must  sit  in  the 
corner,  the  body  of  the  room  being  reserved  for 
fullgrown  men.  SeetheLe-ke,  II.  Pt.  L  i.  17. 
In  walking  with  an  elder,  a  youth  was  required 
to  keep  a  little  behind  him.  See  the  Le-ke,  IIL 
v.  15.  Confucius'  employment  of  the  lad,  there- 
fore, was  to  teach  him  the  courtesies  required 
by  his  years. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


158 


comrucuv  amaixcts. 


BOOK  XV.  WEI  LING  KUNG. 


0i  b>  $i»  Us  <a  w%  4  c 

_  m  %  %  ft m>  m  ft  m 


Chapter  I.  1.  The  duke  Ling  of  Wei  asked  Confucius  about 
tactics.  Confucius  replied,  "  I  have  heard  all  about  sacrificial  ves- 
sels, but  I  have  not  learned  military  matters."  On  this,  he  took 
his  departure  the  next  day. 

2.  When  he  was  in  Chin,  their  provisions  were  exhausted,  and 
his  followers  became  so  ill  that  they  were  unable  to  rise. 

3.  Tsze-loo,  with  evident  dissatisfaction,  said,  "  Has  the  superior 
man  likewise  to  endure  in  this  way?"  The  Master  said,  "The  su- 
perior man  may  indeed  have  to  endure  want,  but  the  mean  man, 
when  he  is  in  want,  gives  way  to  unbridled  license." 


HxADoro  of  this  Boos.-- |&r  &  jfe  tt 

+  3£>  "Hie  duke,  Ling,  of  Wei— Book  XV.' 
The  contents  of  the  Book,  contained  in  forty 
chapters,  are  as  miscellaneous  as  those  of  the  for- 
mer. Bather  they  are  more  so,  some  chapters 
bearing  on  the  public  administration  of  govern- 
ment, several  being  occupied  with  the  superior 
man,  and  others  containing  lessons  of  practical 
wisdom.  'All  the  subjects,'  says  Ting  Ping,  *  il- 
lustrate the  feeling  of  the  sense  of  shame  and 
consequent  pursuit  of  the  correct  course,  and 
therefore  the  Book  immediately  follows  the 
preceding  one.' 

1.  Confucius  refuses  to  talk  oh  military 
affairs.  in  tub  midst  of  distress,  he  shows 
tub  disciples  how  the  superior  man  is  above 

distress.  1.  B&,  read  chin,  low.  3d  tone,  'the  ar- 
rangement of  the  ranks  of  an  army,  here=»tac- 
tks,  generally,    £HJ|  £  ^|,-Comp.  g| 


B^I^V111-**  The^ftwasadish, 
18  inches  long  and  8  in.  broad,  on  a  stand,  H 
in.  high,  upon  which  the  flesh  of  victims  was 
laid,  but  the  meaning  is  sacrificial  vessels  gtnsf- 
ally,— the  business  of  ceremonies.  It  is  sstf 
of  Conf,  in  the  *  Historical  Becords,'  that  whsa 

a  boy,  he  was  fond  of  playing  at  ^  and  jj.  He 

wished  by  his  reply  and  departure,  to  teach  tfat 
duke  that  the  rules  of  propriety,  and  not  war, 
were  essential  to  the  government  of  a  state,  f. 
From  Wei,  Conf.  proceeded  to  Chin,  and  there 
met  with  the  distress  here  mentioned.  It  is  pro- 
bably the  same  which  is  referred  to  in  XL  2,  1, 
though  there  is  some  chronological  difficulty 
about  the  subject  (See  the  note  by  Choo  He 
in  his  preface  to  the  Analects.)  8.  [g^yei, 
indeed,'  with  reference  to  Tsxe-loo'e 
Some  take  it  in  its  sense  of  'firm.'— The  i 

te~"TSSSCB&gI 


O&NFUClAlt  AKALECT8. 


159 


fi\,E  fa  £  £n     *  £  & 

Chapter  II.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Ts'ze,  you  think,  I  suppose, 
that  I  am  one  who  learns  many  things  and  keeps  them  in  memory?" 

2.  Tsze-kung  replied,  "  Yes, — but  perhaps  it  is  not  so?  " 

3.  "No,"  was  the  answer ;  "I  seek  a  unity  all-pervading. " 
Chapter  III.     The  Master  said,  "Yew,  those  who  know  virtue 

are  few." 

Chapter  IV.  The  Master  said,  "May  not  Shun  be  instanced  as 
having  governed  efficiently  without  exertion  ?  What  did  he  do  ? 
He  did  nothing  but  gravely  and  reverently  occupy  his  imperial  seat." 

Chapter  V.  1.  Tsze-chang  asked  how  a  man  might  conduct 
himself,  so  as  to  be  everywhere  appreciated. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  Let  his  words  be  sincere  and  truthful,  and 
his  actions  honorable  and  careful ; — such  conduct  may  be  practised 
among  the  rude  tribes  of  the  South  or  the  North.     If  his  words  be 


2.    How  Confucius  aimed  at  the  know- 
ledge  Or    AN    ALL-PERVADING    UNITY.        Ttlifl 

chapter  is  to  be  compared  with  IV.  15,  only, 
•art  Choo  He,  'that  is  spoken  with  reference 
to  practice,  and  this  with  reference  to  know- 
ledge.'  But  the  design  of  Conf.  was  probably 
the  same  in  them  both ;  and  I  understand  the 
first  par.  here  as  meaning — 'Ts'ze,  do  you  think 
that  I  am  aiming,  by  the  exercise  of  memory,  to 
acquire  a  varied  and  extensive  knowledge?' 
Then  the  8d  paragraph  is  equivalent  to : — *  I  am 
not  doing  this.  My  aim  is  to  know  myself, — the 
mind  which  embraces  all  knowledge,  and  regu- 
lates all  practice.*  This  is  the  view  of  the  chap- 
ter given  in  the  Q  ||:-j|£— 5£%=S 

feW^^lc  'This  chapter  teaches  that 
what  is  valuable  in  learning,  is  the  knowledge 
of  that  which  10  important.' 


3.  Few  really  kkow  virtue.  This  is  un- 
derstood as  spoken  with  reference  to  the  dis- 
satisfaction manifested  by  Tsze-loo  in  ch.  1.  If 
he  had  possessed  a  right  knowledge  of  virtue, 
he  would  not  have  been  so  affected  by  distress. 

4.  How  Suue  was  able  to  govern  with- 
out personal  effort.  %£  F^»  'made  him- 
self reverent.'  J£  |§  ||Jjf  'correctly  adjust- 
ed his  south-wards  face ;'  see  VI.  1.  Shun  suc- 
ceeding Yaou,  there  were  many  ministers  o 
great  virtue  and  ability,  to  occupy  all  the  offices 
of  the  government  All  that  Shun  did,  was  by 
his  grave  and  sage  example.  This  is  the  lesson 
— the  influence  of  a  ruler's  personal  character. 

6.    Conduct  that  will  be  appreciated  in 

ALL  PARTS  OF  THE  WORLD.      1.  We  mUSt  BUpply 

a  good  deal  to  bring  out  the  meaning  here. 
Choo  He  compares  the  question  with  that  other 
of  Tsze-chang  about  the  scholar  who  may  bo 


Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


160 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


hi  m  wffi 

not  sincere  and  truthful,  and  his  actions  not  honorable  and  careful, 
will  he,  with  such  conduct,  be  appreciated,  even  in  his  neighbour- 
hood? 

3.  "  When  he  is  standing,  let  him  see  those  two  things,  as  it  were 
fronting  him.  When  he  is  in  a  carriage,  let  him  see  them  attached 
to  the  yoke.     Then  may  he  subsequently  carry  them  into  practice." 

4.  Tsze-chang  wrote  these  counsels  on  the  end  of  his  sash. 
Chapter  VI.  1.     The  Master  said,  "  Truly  straightforward  was 

the  historiographer  Yu.  When  good  government  prevailed  in  his 
state,  he  was  like  an  arrow.  When  bad  government  prevailed,  ho 
was  like  an  arrow. 

2.  "  A  superior  man  indeed  is  Keu  Pih-yuh !  When  good  go- 
vernment prevails  in  his  state,  he  is  to  be  found  in  office.  When 
bad  government  prevails,  he  can  roll  his  principles  up,  and  keeps 
them  in  his  breast." 

called  i&;  see  XIX  20.  2.  ijg  is  another  name 
for  the  dlj  JffJ,  *be  rude  tribe*  on  the  north. 
2,500  families  made  up  a  Ml,  and  25  made  up 
a  Ijl  >  but  the  meaning  of  the  phrase  is  that  given 
in  the  translation.  8.  ffi,  '  them,'  i  c,  such 
words  and  actions.— Let  him  see  them  ^^  "Jfc 
j^", '  before  him,  with  himself  making  a  trio.' 
fllf  is  properly  'the  bottom  of  a  carriage,' 
planks  laid  over  wheels,  a  simple  '  hackery,'  but 
here  its4  a  carriage.'    4  ^jjJL  denotes  the  ends 

of  the  sash  that  hang  down. 
6.    The  admirable  characters  of  Tsze-yu 

axd  Keu  Piii-YUH.    1.  Jp  *ft  was  the  desig- 


nation of  TH  ^r,  the  historiographer  of  Wei, 

on  his  deathbed,  he  left  a  message  for  his  prince, 
and  gave  orders  that  his  body  should  be  laid  out 
in  a  place  and  manner  likely  to  attract  his  atten- 
tion when  he  paid  the  visit  of  condolence.  It  wis 
so,  and  the  message  then  delivered  had  the 
desired  effect.    Perhaps  it  was  on  hearing  this 

that  Confucius  made  this  remark,    ^|J  4r, 

(as  an  arrow,'  i.  e.,  straight  and  decided,    2. 

Keu  Pih-yuh,— see  XIV.  26.    l*f=f|g.  jg 

ffij  Isll  <iT» — <^  is  to  be  understood  as  re- 
ferring to  *  his  principles,'  or  perhaps  the  claose 
='  he  could  roll  himself  up  and  keep  himself  to 
himself,'  u  c,  he  kept  aloof  from  office. — Comm. 
say  that  Tsze-yu's  uniform  straightforwardness 
was  not  equal  to  Pih-ytuYs  rightly  adapting 
himself  to  circumstances.  I 


CONVU&AM  ANALECTS 


161 


eu>\: 


I 


Chaptto  VII,  The  Master  said,  "  When  a  man  may  be  spoken 
with,  not  to  speak  to  him  is  to  err  in  reference  to  the  man.  When' 
•  man  may  not  be  spoken  with,  to  speak  to  him  is  to  err  in  reference 
to  our  words.  The  wise  err  neither  in  regard  to  their  man  nor  to 
their  words/ 

Chapter  VJII,  The  Maater  said,  "The  determined  scholar  and 
the  man  of  virtue  will  not  seek  to  live  at  the  expense  of  injuring 
their  virtue.  They  will  even  sacrifice  their  lives  to  preserve  their 
virtue  complete/' 

Chapter  IX,  Tfl&e*kung  asked  about  the  practice  of  virtue. 
The  Master  said,  "  The  mechanic,  who  wishes  to  do  his  work  well, 
must  first  sharpen  his  took.  When  you  are  living  in  any  state, 
take  service  with  the  most  worthy  among  its  great  officers,  and  make 
friends  of  the  most  virtuous  among  its  scholars/* 

Chai  tbb  X,  h  Yen  Yuen  asked  how  the  government  of  a  coun- 
try should  be  administered 

7,  Tn«ws  a**  m*m  wrra  whom  to  spsak, 

jMt>  MM  WITH  WHOM  TO  KBBP  SILSSrCB.     Th* 

sns*  mew  twm.    ^  ^  may  be  translated, 
JftersJJtr  an*  property,—'  to  lose  oar  words/  bat 
ffc  ttipfsh  we  do  not  use  '  to  lose,'  in  connection 
w&fc  'men,*  in  the  same  way. 
a   High  vatoebs  valus  vumra  mors  than 

UVH.  Thejjfe^and^  A  are  two  different 
classes,  the  fame  described  IT. «,— f^^HS? 


ally  translated— 'They  will  kill  themselves/  No 
doubt  suicide  is  included  in  the  expression  (Sea 

the  fi£  to  Ho  An),  and  Confucius  here  justifies 

that  act,  as  in  certain  cases  expressive  of  high 
virtue. 

9.  HOW  IWT1BCOURSS  WITH  TBI  GOOD  AIDS 

tub  practice  or  vibtub.  Comp,  Proverbs 
XXVII.  17,  'Iron  sharpeneth  iron;  so  a  man 
sharpeneth  the  countenance  of  his  friend.' 

10.  Certaim  bulbs,  bxbmflifibd  ih  thb  ah* 
cibfft  dtk astib8,  to  bb  followed  dc  oovbbk* 
mo ;— a  bbtlt  to  Ye*  Yub*.    1.  The  disciple 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


162 


CONFUCIAS  ANALECTS. 


jg£f#     ft     fei^ 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  Follow  the  seasons  of  Hea. 

3.  "  Ride  in  the  state  carriage  of  Yin. 

4.  "Wear  the  ceremonial  cap  of  Chow. 

5.  "  Let  the  music  be  the  Shaou  with  its  pantomimes. 

6.  "  Banish  the  songs  of  Ch'ing,  and  keep  far  from  specious  talkers. 
The  songs  of  Ch'ing  are  licentious;  specious  talkers  are  dangerous." 

*  Chapter  XI.  The  Master  said,  "  If  a  man  take  no  thought  about 
what  is  distant,  he  will  find  sorrow  near  at  hand." 

Chapter  XII.  The  Master  said,  "It  is  all  over!  I  have  not 
seen  one  who  loves  virtue  as  he  loves  beauty." 

Chapter  XIII.  The  Master  said,  "Was  not  Tsang  Wan  like  one 
who  had  stolen  his  situation  ?     He  knew  the  virtue  and  the  talents 


modestly  put  his  question  with  reference  to  the 
government  of  a  state  (flj),  but  the  Master 
answers  it  according  to  the  disciple's  ability, 
as  if  it  had  been  about  the  ruling  of  the  empire 

(i&  5C  T^*  2#  The  three  great  anclent 
dynasties  began  the  year  at  different  times. 
According  to  an  ancient  tradition,   'Heaven 

was  opened  at  the  time  -7- ;  Earth  appeared  at 
the  time  -ffi ;  and  Man  was  born  at  the  time 
iS*  ^T  commences  in  our  December,  at  the 
winter  solstice ;  -j£  a  month  later ;  and  W  a 
month  after  -j£.  The  Chow  dynasty  began  its 
year  with  -3^;  the  Shang  with  -^f*;  and  the  Hea 

with  ^|f .    As  human  life  then  commenced,  the 

year,  in  reference  to  human  labours,  naturally 
proceeds  from  the  spring,  and  Conf .  approved  the 
rule  of  the  Uea  dynasty.  His  decision  has  been 
the  law  of  all  dynasties  since  the  Ts'itL  See 
the  *  Discourt  Preliminaire,  Chap.  I*  in  Gaubil's 
Shoo  King.  8.  The  state  carriage  of  the  Yin 
dynasty  was  plain  and  substantial,  which  Conf. 


preferred  to  the  more  ornamented  ones  of  Chow. 
4.  Yet  he  does  not  object  to  the  more  elegant  cap 
of  that  dynasty,  *  the  cap,'  says  Choo  He,  *  being 
a  8 mall  thing,  and  placed  over  all  the  body.*   5. 

The  thaott  was  the  music  of  Shun;  see  III.  25.  -S, 

— the  •  dancers,'  or '  pantomimes,'  who  kept  time 
to  the  music.    See  the  Shoo-king  II.  ii.  21.    5. 

ffjB  H?:> ' tne  80un(l8  of  ChHng,'  meaning  both 
the  songs  of  Ch*ing,  and  the  appropriate  music  to 
which  they  were  sung.  Those  songs  form  the 
7th  book  of  the  1st  division  of  the  She-king, 
and  are  here  characterized  justly. 

11.  THR  NECE88ITY  OF  FORETHOUGHT  JkXD 
PBEC  IUTION. 

12.  This  rarity  of  a  true  love  of  tirtpp, 
P  *&  *&-,— «ee  V.  26 ;  the  rest  is  a  repetition 
of  IX.  17,  said  to  have  been  spoken  by  Conf. 
when  he  was  in  Wei,  and  saw  the  duke  riding 
out  openly  in  the  same  carriage  with  Nan~tsse. 

18.  Against  jealousy  of  others'  taxsstts  ; 
— the  case  of  Tsavq  Wah,  aud  Hwct  OF 
Lew-hea.     Tsang  Wan-chung, — See   V,  17. 

^  fa  ia  explained-^  &^f  jig  & 

|jjg  j£,  «a»  if  he  bad  got  it  by  theft,  and 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


165 


3  &  a  &  £  S  ft  E 

MT'bM  *  B  2S  Hr  ± 
VXmmM  Wm&M&< 
HIHIH,     ££     If 

#£M   .4  in 

of  Hwiiy  of  Lew-hea,  and  yet  did  not  procure  that  lie  should  stand 
with  him  in  court" 

Chapter  XIV.  The  Master  said,  "He  who  requires  much  from 
himself  an<J  little  from  others,  will  keep  himself  from  being  the  object 
of  resentment." 

Chapter  XV.  The  Master  said,  "  When  a  man  is  not  in  the  habit 
of  saving—  <  What  shall  I  think  of  this?  What  shall  I  think  of 
this?    I  can  indeed  do  nothing  with  him !" 

Chapter  XVI.  The  Master  said,  "  When  a  number  of  people 
are  together,  for  a  whole  day,  without  their  conversation  turning  on 
righteousness,  and  when  they  are  fond  of  carrying  out  the  suggestions 
o/a  small  shrewdness ; — theirs  is  indeed  a  hard  case." 

Chapter  XVII.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  in  every- 
thing  considers  righteousness  to  be  essential.  He  performs  it  accord- 
ing to  the  rules  of  propriety.  He  brings  it  forth  in  humility.  He 
completes  it  with  sincerity.     This  is  indeed  a  superior  man." 

16.  AOAIN8T  FRIVOLOUS  TALKERS  AND  SU- 
PERFICIAL speculators.  Choo  He  explains  fffi 

'  they  have  no  ground  from  which  to  become  vir- 
tuous, and  they  will  meet  with  calamity/  Ho 
An  gives  Chlng  K'sng-shing's  explanation : — 

jft&  $B£  fifr,  'they  will  never  complete  any 
thing.'  Our  nearly  literal  translation  appears 
to  convey  the  meaning.  'A  hard  case,'  i.e., 
they  will  make  nothing  out,  and  nothing  can  be 
made  of  them. 

17.  The  conduct  of  the  superior  man  is 
righteous,  courteous,  humble,  and  sincere. 
J^,  is  explained  by  Choo  He  by  |Jf  J^,  'the 
substance  and  item ;'  and  in  the  4&  &  by 


•ecretly  held  possession  of  it.'  Tsang  Wan 
would  not  recommend  Hwuy,  because  he  was 
&n  abler  and  better  man  than  himself.  Hwuy 
ii  t  famous  name  in  China.  He  was  an  officer 
°f  Loo,  so  styled  after  death,  whose  name  was 

j|  n,  and  designation  w.    He  derived  bis 

ferorae  from  a  town  called  Lew-hea,  though 
Jome  say  that  it  was  &  lew  or  willow  tree,  over- 
hanging his  house,  which  made  him  to  be  Known 
u  Lew-hea  Hwuy — *  Hwuy  that  lived  under 
the  willow  tree.'  See  Mencius,  n.  i.  9. 
1*.  The  way  to  ward  off  resentments. 

j^,  it  is  said,  is  here  '  to  require  from,'  and 
hot  « to  reprove,*  but  the  one  meaning  passes 
kwuiblv  into  the  other. 
15.   Nothing  can  be  made  of  people  who 

Ta*B  THINGS  EASILY,    NOT  GIVING   THBM8ELVBS 

tat  TaouBLs  to  think.    Comp.  VU.  8. 


164 


COKFUCtAS  AKAlfiCTSi 


A, 


^ 

t 

0. 

0> 

0, 

m 

# 

# 

? 

^ 

^ 

% 

# 

vx 

W 

to 

it 

% 

?> 

m 

4*, 

* 

A. 

w 

A 

* 

W 

* 

21 

* 

»Vo 


43  7$  4=1   43 


Chaptbr  XVtlX  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  is  dis- 
tressed by  his  want  of  ability.  He  is  not  distressed  by  men's  not 
knowing  him." 

Chapter  XIX.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  disliked 
the  thought  of  his  name  not  being  mentioned  after  his  death." 

Chapter  XX.  The  Master  said,  "What  the  superior  man  seeks, 
is  in  himself*     What  the  mean  man  seeks,  is  in  others* 

CHAPTBit  XXL  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  Is  dignified, 
but  does  not  wrangle*     He  Is  sociable,  but  not  a  partizan*" 

Chapter  XXIL  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  does  not 
promote  a  man  simply  on  account  of  his  Words,  nor  does  he  put  aside 
pood  words  because  of  the  man/' 

S  Jib  'foundation'  3?*°  antecedent  to  all 
the  £  is  life  or  rather  the  thing,  whatever 
-it  be,  done  righteously* 

18.  OUR  OWN  INCOMPETENCY,  AND   NOT  OUB 
REPUTATION,  THE  PROPER  BUSINESS  OF  CONCERN 

to  us.    See  XIV.  32,  et  aL 

19.  THB  SUPERIOR  MAN  WISHES  TO  BR  RAD  IN 

remembrance.  Not,  say  the  common.,  that  the 
superior  man  cares  about  fame,  but  fame  is  the 
invariable  concomitant  of  merit.  He  can't  have 
been  the  superior  man,  if  he  be  not  remember- 


1=1"'  Q^andmafl/oth^paraphratea,^ 
j£  fe  taken  «=*#£  J^  t'  all  his  life.' 

20.  hls  own  approbation  18  the  superios 
man's  role.    The  Approbation  of  others  is 

THB  MEAN  MAft'S.      Comp.  XIV.  25. 

21.  The  superior  man  is  dignified  and 
affable,  without  thb  faults  to  which  tbotb 
qualities  often  lead.    Comp.  H  14,  and  VIL 

30.    f^ishere^^J^^pg, 'grave  in 

self-maintenance.' 

22.  The  superior  man  is  discriminated, 

IN  HIS  EMPLOYMENT  QF    MB*   AND  JUDGINQ  «# 
STATEMENTS. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS* 


16* 


K^r4A0B»m 

jfffrfi     £W 


AH 

I  Chapter  XXIII.  Tsze-kung  asked,  saying,  "Is  there  one  word1 
!  which  may  serve  as  a  rule  of  practice  for  till  one's  life?"  The  Mas- 
i'  ter  said,  "  Is  not  reciprocity  such  a  word?  What  you  do  not  want 
I  done  to  yourself,  do  not  do  to  others." 

Chapter  XXIV,  1.  The  Master  said,  "In  my  dealings  with* 
men,  whose  evil  do  1  blame,  whose  goodness  do  I  praise,  Deyond 
what  is  proper?  If  I  do  sometimes  exceed  in  praise,  there  must  be 
ground  for  it  in  my  examination  of  the  individual 

2.  "This  people  supplied  the  ground  why  the  three  dynasties 
pursued  the  path  of  straightforwardness." 

Chapter  aXV.  The  Master  said,  "Even  in  my  early  days,  a> 
historiographer  would  leave  a  blank  in  his  text,  and  he  who  had  a< 
horse  would  lend  him  to  another  to  ride.    Now,  alas!  there  are  no* 


such  things." 

23.  The  great  principle  op  reciprocity 

IB  TMB  RULE  OP  UPE.  Conip.  V.  11.  It  is  sin- 
gular that  TsieJurog  professes  there  to  act  on 
the  principle  here  recommended  to  him. 

24.  CONFDCIU8     SHOWED    HIS   RESPECT  FOR 
REN    BT    STRICT   TRUTHPULNESS    I*    AWARpINO 

praise  or  censure.  1.  I  have  not  marked '  be- 
yond what  is  proper'  with  italics,  because  there 

is  really  that  force  in  the  verbs— fij  and  jjp;. 
•  Ground  for  it  in  my  examination  of  the  indi- 
Tidnal  ;* — L  e~,  from  examination  of  him  I  believe 

he  will  yet  verify  my  words.  2.  ffif  fSffi^ 
tetanies  the  K  of  the  let  par.,  which  the  jjfo 


indicates.  j5^^?|  is  to  be  tekem  as— i  the  rea- 
son why,'  and  Iff  as  a  neuter  verb,  of  general  * 
application.  =?  >tt^,  'the  three  dynasties,'' 
with  special  reference  to  their  great  founders, 
and  the  principles  which  they  inaugurated.— 
The  truth-approving  nature  of  the  people  .was 
a  rule  even  to  those  sages*  It  was  the  same  to 
Confucius. 

25.    Instances  op  the  rbgeneracy  of  Con- 
fucius' times.    Most  paraphrasts  supply  a  JJ 

*te*  2fc  *~9  evea  to  my  tinit  I  havi  nmt 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


166 


COBTDCIAS   AKAIXCTS. 


#  &  m  *5 

&  £.  ^c 


Chapter  XXVI.  The  Master  said,  "  Specious  words  confond 
virtue.  Want  of  forbearance  in  small  matters  confounds  great 
plans." 

Chaptkb  XXVII.  The  Master  said,  "When  the  multitude  hate 
a  man,  it  is  necessary  to  examine  into  the  case.  When  the  multitude 
like  a  man,  it  is. necessary  to  examine  into  the  case." 

Chaptkb  XXVIII.  The  Master  said,  "A  man  can  enlarge  the 
principles  which  he  follows;  those  principles  do  not  enlarge  the 
man." 

Chapter  XXIX.  The  Master  said,  "To  have  faults  and  not  to 
reform  them, — this,  indeed,  should  be  pronounced  having  faults." 

Chapter  XXX.    The  Master  said,  "ihave  been  the  whole  day 

—•|3  here  lithe  path  of  duty,  which  all  ma, 
in  their  various  relation*,  hare  to  pursue,  and 
man  haa  the  three  virtues  of  knowledge,  bea- 
erolence,  and  fortitude,  wherewith  to  puma 
that  path,  and  so  he  enlarges  it.  That  virtue  rs- 


The  appointment  of  the  historiographer  is  refer- 
red to  Hwang-te,  or  'The  Tellow  emperor,'  the 
inventor  of  the  cycle.  The  statutes  of  Chow  men- 
tion no  fewer  than  five  classes  of  such  officers. 
They  were  attached  also  to  the  feudal  courts,  and 
what  Confucius  says,  is  that,  in  his  early  days, 
a  historiographer,  on  any  point  about  which  he 
was  not  lure,  would  leave  a  blank;  so  careful 
were  they  to  record  only  truth.    2E  jttj  ^ 

extends  on  to  ^f  J}|  y  T .  This  second  sen- 
tence is  explained  in  Ho  An :— «If  any  one  had 
a  horse  which  he  could  not  tame,  he  would  lend 
it  to  another  to  ride  and  exercise  it!  '—The  com- 
mentator Hoo  (Afj  J^)  says  well,  that  the 

meaning  of  the  chapter  most  he  left  in  uncer- 
tainty. 

26.  THB  DANGER  OP  SPECIOUS   WORDS,  AND 

of  impatience,     yj^  ^  jgj  is  not  'a  little 

impatience,'  but  impatience  in  little  things ;  *  the 
hastiness,'  it  is  said,  'ot  women  and  small 
people.' 

27.  In  judging  of  a  max,  wb  must  nor  be 

G I  TIDED  BT  HIS  BEING  GENERALLY  LIKBD  OB  DIS- 
LIKED.    Comp.  XIII.  24. 

28.  Principles  of  duty  an  instrument  in 
the  hand  of  man.  This  sentence  is  quite  mys- 
tical in  its  sententiousness.    The  Blj:  says : 


mote,  occupying  an  empty  place,  cannot  enlarge 
man,  needs  not  to  be  said.'  liiat  writer's  ac- 
count of  ^  here  is  probably  correct,  and  'duty 
unapprehended,'  *  in  an  empty  place,*  can  have 
no  effect  on  any  man ;  but  this  isa  mere  trass*. 
Duty  apprehended  is  constantly  enlarging,  ele- 
vating, and  energising  multitudes,  who  had 
previously  been  uncognlsant  of  it.  The  Brat 
clause  of  the  chapter  may  be  granted,  but  the 
second  is  not  in  accordance  with  troth. 

29.  Thb  culpability  of  mot  bepusjusg 
known  faults.  Comp.  L  8.  Choo  He^com- 
mentary  appears  to  make  the  meaning  somewhat 
different.  He  says : — '  If  one  having  faults  can 
change  them,  he  comes  back  to  the  condition  of 
having  no  faults.  But  if  he  do  notchaase 
them,  then  they  go  on  to  their  completion,  sad 
will  never  come  to  be  changed.' 

80.  The  fruitlesskess  of  thtjouko,  wrra- 
out  BBADiNo.  Comp.  IL  15,  where  the  depen- 
dence of  acquisition  and  reflection  on  each  other 
is  set  forth.— Many  coram,  say  that  Conf.  men*/ 
transfers  the  things  which  he  here  mentions  to 
himself  for  the  sake  of  others,  not  that  it  eve? 
was  really  thus  with  himself. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


OONFUCIAD  analects. 


167 


mie  #  *  a  *  +  f1 

&m  m  ik  %  m  4^ 


oBfc 


£> 


without  eating,  and  the  whole  night  without  sleeping: — occupied 
with  thinking.     It  was  of  no  use.     The  better  plan  is  to  learn." 

Chapter  XXXI.  The  Master  said,  "  The  object  of  the  superior 
man  is  truth.  Food  is  not  his  object.  There  is  ploughing ; — even 
in  that  there  is  sometimes  want.  So  with  learning ; — emolument 
may  be  found  in  it.  The  superior  man  is  anxious  lest  he  should  not 
get  truth;  he  is  not  anxious  lest  poverty  should  come  upon  him." 

Chapter  XXXII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "When  a  man's  know- 
ledge is  sufficient  to  attain,  and  his  virtue  is  not  sufficient  to  enable 
him  to  hold,  whatever  he  may  have  gained,  he  will  lose  again. 

2.  "When  his  knowledge  is  sufficient  to  attain,  and  he  has  vir- 
tue enough  to  hold  fast,  if  he  cannot  govern  with  dignity,  the  peo- 
ple will  not  respect  him. 

3.  "  When  his  knowledge  is  sufficient  to  attain,  and  he  has  vir- 
tue enough  to  hold  fast ;  when  he  governs  also  with  dignity,  yet  if 
he  try  to  move  the  people  contrary  to  the  rules  of  propriety : — full 
excellence  is  not  reached" 

81.     THl  SUPERIOR  MAN  8HOULD  NOT  BE  MER- 
CENARY, BUT  BATS  TRUTH  FOB  HIS  OBJECT.  Here 

again  we  translate  j^  by  *  truth,1  *&  the  best 
term  that  offers.  &J,  *  hunger,'** want  'Want 
nay  be  in  the  midst  of  ploughing/ — i  &,  hus- 
bandry is  the  way  to  plenty,  and  yet  despite  the 
labours  of  the  husbandman,  a  famine  or  scar- 
city sometimes  occurs.  The  application  of  this 
to  the  case  of  learning,  however,  is  not  very 


apt.  Is  the  emolument  that  sometimes  cornea 
with  learning  a  calamity  like  famine? — ChHng 
K'ang-shing's  view  is : — *  Although '  a  man  may 
plough,  yet,  not  learning,  he  will  come  to  hun- 
ger. If  he  learn,  he  will  get  emolument,  and 
tho'  he  do  not  plough,  he  will  not  be  in  want. 
This  is  adrising  men  to  learn' I 

82.  HOW  KNOWLEDGE  WITHOUT  VIRTUE  IS  NOT 
LASTING,  AND  TO  KNOWLBDGB  AND  VIBTUB  A 
BULBB  SHQBLD  ADD  DIGNITY  AND  THB  BULBS  OS> 

1.  Here  the,  various  ^  and  tho 

byt^OC 


PBOTBIBTT. 


Digitized  by " 


lOogle 


MS 


OONFUCIA»  ANALECTS. 


ffi< 


0>5E  ft  #  B> 


/J>  4>  ^ 
&A4 


Chapter  XXXIII.  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  can. 
not  be  known  in  little  matters ;  but  he  may  be  intrusted  with  great 
concerns.  The  small  man  may  not  be  intrusted  with  great  con. 
cerns,  but  he  may  be  known  in  little  matters." 

Chapter  XXilV.  The  Master  said,  "Virtue  is  more  to  man 
than  either  water  or  fire,  I  have  seen  men  die  from  treading  on 
Water  and  fire,  but  I  have  never  seen  a  man  die  from  treading  th& 
course  of  virtue." 

Chapter  XXXV,  The  Master  said,  "Let  every  man  consider, 
virtue  as  what  devolves  on  himself.  He  may  not  yield  the  perfor- 
mance of  it  even  to  his  teacher." 

of  the  Jtam-tes  is  profound  and  fkr-feacftdng. 
He  may  not  let  his  Knowledge  be  small,  and  he 
may  receive  what  is  great.  The  way  of  the 
**aou'jin  is  shallow  and  near.  He  may  let  his 
knowledge  be  small,  and  he  may  not  receive 
what  is  great' 

84.     VlBTU*  SOU  TO  MAW  THAK  WASBB  OB 
FIB*,  AWD  BBVBB  HUBTTUt  TO  HIM.     ES  is  hew 

-A'  'BM'' "» VL20.  &ZJ${Z& 
— 'the  people's  relation  to,  or  dependence  on, 
virtue.'  The  case  is  easily  conceivable  of  men's 
suffering  death  on  account  of  their  virtue.  There 
have  been  martyrs  for  their  loyalty  and  other 
virtues,  as  well  as  for  their  religious  faith.  Choo 
He  provides  for  this  din*,  in  his  remarks  :— *Tns 
want  of  fire  and  water  ii  hurtful  only  to  man's 
body,  but  to  be  without  virtue  is  to  lose  one's 
mind  (the  higher  nature),  and  so  it  is  more  to 
him  than  water  or  fire.'    8ee  on  IV.  8. 

85.     VlBTUl  PKBSOHAi;   AMD  OBLIGATORY  OB 

bvbbt  mah.  The  old  interpreters  take  *St  m 
the  sense  of  'ought'  Choo  He  certainly  im- 
proves on  them  by  taking  it  in  the  sense  of  4ft 
^f ,  as  in  the  translation.  A  student  at  first 
takes  ^  to  be  in  the  2d  person,  but  the  JR 
Mowing  recaftj  him  loghead.   1 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


•wo  first  in  the  other  paragraphs,  Jft  jJJ  €T, 
•hare  le,  or  principle,  for  their  reference,'  In 
Ho  An,  however,  Faon  Heen  says :— *  A  man 
may  have  knowledge  equal  to  the  management 
of  his  office  C/^^%),  but  if  he  have  not 
Tirtue  which  can  hold  it  fast,  though  he  get  it, 
be  will  lose  it/    ftbNt£,«dg|r  ± 

people,  for  their  reference,'  8.  The  phrase—'  to 
move  the  people'  is  analogous  to  several  others, 

tnepeonle,'  'to  dance  them,'  'to  rouse  them.' 

88.     HOW  TO  KVOW  THB  SUPBBIOB  MA*  AID 
THE  MBAN  MAH;  AND  THBIB  CAPACITIB8.     ChoO 

He  says—$|t,  |k  £p  £9  «the  knowing  here 

it  our  knowing  tie  individuals.'  The  'little 
matters '  are  ingenious  but  trifling  arts  and  ac- 
complishments, in  which  a  really  great  man 
may  sometimes  be  deficient,  while  a  small  man 
will  be  familiar  with  them.  The  'knowing'  is 
not  that  the  parties  are  baa-tee  and  seaou-jin, 
hut  what  attainments  they  have,  and  for  what 
they  are  fit.  The  difficulty,  on  this  view,  is 
with  the  concloskm— jfij  jjjT  jfa  ft.— fib 
4*4**  fhe-Tfe*  of  W«*  Souk  ;-<  The  way^ 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


169 


as-  I — »    l-*-j    'Si    \=rL\   Ls\\    fflt    [4fc?J   =2a   fe^fl 

.  w  bad  bsi  ^ni  iml  Ki  llil  l»  P4votx{ 

{MJ^  Ikf-  ^  ^  ^     f1 
Mb.     b^b^h,     0V 


Chapter  XXXVI,  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  is  cor- 
rectly firm,  and  not  firm  merely." 

Chapter  XXXVII.  The  Master  said,  "A  minister,  in  serving 
his  prince,  reverently  discharges  his  duties,  and  makes  his  emolu- 
ment a  secondary  consideration.1* 

Chapter  XXXVIII.  The  Master  said,  "There  being  instruction, 
there  will  be  no  distinction  of  classes.** 

-    Chapter  XXXIX,    The  Master  said,  "Those  whose  courses  are 
different  cannot  lay  plans  for  one  another/' 

Chapter  XL.  The  Master  said,  "  In  language  it  is  simply  requir- 
ed that  it  convey  the  meaning." 

Chapter  XLI.  1,  The  Musiomaster,  Meen,  having  called  upon 
him,  when  they  came  to  the  steps,  the  Master  said,  "  Here  are  the 
rteps."    When  they  came  to  the  mat  for  the  guest  to  sit  upon,  he 

36.     Top  SUPERIOR  V4V*B  FIRMNESS  18  RASED 

on  right.  J§  is  used  here  in  the  sense  which  it 
has  throughout  the  Tih-kiug.  Both  it  and  fNf 
imply  firmness,  but  }£k  supposes  a  moral  and 

fnteffigent  basis  which  may  be  absent  from  WjSt ; 
see  XIV.  18, 8. 

87.  Tu&wtSTBrviwmm*.  The  jjfc  refers 
not  to  ^,  but  to  the  isdiridual  who  $1 3§*. 
We  hare  to  supply  the  subject— *  a  minister.' 
&  m  hi  VI.  20. 

Ml     ?S»    SPPR0T    OP    TBACHXlfO.     ChoO    He 

says  on  this:— 'The  nature  of  all  men  is  good, 
but  we  find  among  them  the  different  classes  of 
good  and  bad.  This  is  the  effect  of  physical 
constitution  and  of  practice.  The  superior  man, 
in  consequence,  employs  his  teaching,  and  all 
may  be  brought  back  to  the  state  of  good,  and 


there  is  go  necessity  (The  Uag.  is  ^|>  fjg?  >i$£ 

fjjjf  ~5jL  m  ;£  jgS)  of  speaking  any  more  of 
the  badness  of  some.*  This  is  very  extravagant. 
Teaching  is  not  so  omnipotent^— The  old  in- 
terpretation is  simply  that  in  teaching  there 
should  be  no  distinction  of  classes. 

89.  Agreement  nr  principle  necessary  to 
concord  in  plaits.  ^§J  is  the  8d  tone,  but  I  do 
not  see  that  there  would  be  any  great  difference 
in  the  meaning,  if  it  were  read  in  its  usual  1st 
tone. 

40.  Perspicuity  thb  chirp  yirtur  op  lan- 
guage. a&  may  be  used  both  of  speech  and 
of  style. 

41.  Consideration  op  Confucius  for  thb 
blind.  1.  [Jjjj,— u  q.  ^  £jjj,  m.  28.  Ancient- 
ly, the  blind  were  employed  in  the  offices  of 
music,  partly  because  their  sense  of  hearing 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


170 


COOTUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£ 


% 


said,    "Here  is  the  mat"    When  all   were    seated,   the    Master 
informed  him,  saying,  "  So  and  so  is  here ;  so  and  so  is  here." 

2.  The  Music-master,  M6en,  haying  gone  out,  Tsze-chang  asked, 
saying,  "Is  it  the  rule  to  tell  those  things  to  the  Music-master ?w 

3.  The  Master  said,  "Yes.    This  is  certainly  the  rule  for  those 
who  lead  the  blind." 

of  a  guide,  but  the  sage  met  him,  and  under- 
took the  care  of  him  himself .  2.  Misgovern- 
ed by  t=3\  and  refers  to  the  words  of  Conf.  to 


was  more  than  ordinarily  acute,  and  partly  that 
they  might  be  made  of  some  use  in  the  world ; 
pee  the  ^|  g|£,  in  loc.  J$s— low  3d  tone. 
Heen  had  come  to  Conf.  house,  under  the  care 


Meen  in  the  preceding  paragraph. 


BOOK  XVI.  KE  SHE. 


Chapter  I.  1.  The  head  of  the  Ke  family  was  going  to  attack 
Chuen-yu. 

2.  Yen  Yew  and  Ke  Loo  had  an  interview  with  Confucius,  and 
said,  "  Our  chiefs  Ke,  is  going  to  commence  operations  against 
Chuen-yu." 

Heading  of  this  Book.— 2|5  Jj3^  |j^  -J-* 
t£j.  'The  chief  of  the  Ke— No  XVI.'  Through- 
out this  Book,  Confucius  ii  spoken  of  as  lf\± 
Jp,  'The  philosopher  K*ung,'  and  never  by 

the  designation  -^P-,  or  'The  Master.'    Then, 

the  style  of  several  of  the  chapters  (IV — XI)  is 
not  like  the  utterances  of  Confucius  to  which 
we  have  been  accustomed.  From  these  circum- 
stances, one  commentator,  Hung  Kwdh  rfj£ 


Jfjjp,  supposed  that  it  belonged  to  the  Ts*e  ($) 
recensu*  of  these  analects ;  the  other  books  be- 
longing to  the  Loo  (jfB)  recensus.  This  sup- 
position, however,  is  not  otherwise  supported. 

1.  Confucius  exposes  thk  presumftcoci 
and  impolitic  conduct  of  thb  chief  of  tub 
Kb  family  in  proposing  to  attack  a  mdsoi 
state,  and  rebukes  yen  yew  and  tsxe-loo 

FOR  ABETTINO  THE  DESIGN.      1.    ZE?  J3E  Slid 

^  4Sfc  ^"^  m  L  Chuen-yu  wai  t 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALBCTS. 


171 


»  m  M'l 


Butvf 


II*  J«l  £ 


3.  Confucius  said,  "K'ew,  is  it  not  you  who  are  in  fault  here? 

4.  "Now,  in  regard  to  Chuen-yu,  long  ago,  a  former  king  ap- 
x>inted  it  to  preside  over  the  sacrifices  to  the  eastern  Mung ;  more- 
>ver,  it  is  in  the  midst  of  the  territory  of  our  state ;  land  its  ruler  is 
i  minister  in  direct  connexion  with  the  emperor : — What  has  your 
-Jiief  to  do  with  attacking  it?" 

5.  Yen  Yew  said,  "Our  master  wishes  the  thing;  neither  of  us 
iwo  ministers  wishes  it." 

6.  Confucius  said,  "K'ew,  there  are  the  words  of  Chow  Jin, — 
When  he  can  put  forth  his  ability,  he  takes  his  place  in  the  ranks  of 
yffice ;  when  he  finds  himself  unable  to  do  so,  he  retires  from  it. 
Bow  can  he  be  used  as  a  guide  to  a  blind  man,  who  does  not  sup- 
port him  when  tottering,  nor  raise  him  up  when  fallen  ?' 

7.  "And  further,  you  speak  wrongly.  When  a  tiger  or  wild  bull 
escapes  from  his  cage ;  when  a  tortoise  or  gem  is  injured  in  its 
repository : — whose  is  the  fault?" 


mull  territory  in  Loo,  whose  ruler  was  of  the  ^F», 

*  4th  order  of  nobility.  It  was  one  of  the  states 
*Ued  I^Hf ,  or  'attached,'  whose  chiefs  could 
tot  appear  in  the  presence  of  the  emperor,  ex- 
cepting in  the  train  of  the  prince  within  whose 
jurisdiction  they  were  embraced.  Their  exis- 
tence was  not  from  a  practice  like  the  sub-in- 
fadation,  which  belonged  to  the  feudal  system 
tf  Europe.    They  held  of  the  lord  paramount 

*  emperor,  but  with  the  restriction  which  has 
been  mentioned,  and  with  a  certain  subservience 
*l*»  to  their  immediate  superior.  Its  particu- 
br  position  is  fixed  by  its  proximity  to  Pe,  and 


to  the  Mung  hill.   ^4ar  is  not  merely  'to attack,' 

but  4to  attack  and  punish/  an  exercise  of  judi- 
cial authority,  which  could  emanate  only  from 
the  emperor.  The  term  is  used  here,  to  show 
the  nefarious  and  presumptuous  character  of 
the  contemplated  operations.  2.  There  is  some 
difficulty  here,  as,  ace.  to  the  *  Historical  lie- 
cords/  the  two  disciples  were  not  in  the  service' 
of  the  Ke  family,  at  the  same  time.  We  may 
suppose,  however,  that  Tsze-loo,  returning  with 
the  sage  from  Wei  on  the  invitation  of  duke 
Gae,  took  service  a  second  time,  and  for  a  short 
period,  with  the  Ke  family,  of  which  the  chief 
was  then  Ke  Kaug.    This  brings  the  time  of  the  i 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


172 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


a§  &  w  ^  w  #  $  &  h» +. 


8*  Yen  Yew  said,  "  But  at  present,  Chuen-yu  is  strong  and 
near  to  Pe ;  if  our  chief  do  not  now  take  it,  it  will  hereafter  be  a 
sorrow  to  his  descendants." 

9.  Confucius  said,  "  K'ew,  the  superior  man  hates  that  declining 
to  say— 'I  want  such  and  such  a  thing/  and  framing  explanations 
for  the  conduct 

10*  "  I  have  heard  that  rulers  of  states  and  chiefs  of  families  are 
not  troubled  lest  thefr  people  should  be  few,  but  are  troubled  lest 
they  should  not  keep  their  several  places ;  that  they  are  not  troubled 
with  fears  of  poverty,  but  are  troubled  with  fears  of  a  want  of  con- 
tented repose  among  the  people  in  their  several  places.  For  when 
the  people  keep  their  several  places,  there  will  be  no  poverty ;  when 
harmony  prevails,  there  will  be  no  scarcity  of  people }  and  when  there 
js  such  a  contented  repose,  there  will  be  no  rebellious  upsettings. 


transaction  to  B.  C.  483,  or  431    $£  ^  l|j, 

— lit.,  *  is  going  to  have  an  affair.'  8.  Conf .  ad- 
dresses himself  only  to  It'ew,  as  he  had  been  a 
considerable  time,  and  very  active,  in  the  Ke 
service.  4.  It  Was  the  prerogative  of  the  prin- 
ces to  sacrifice  to  the  hills  and  rivers  within 
their  jurisdictions  ; — here  was  the  chief  of 
Chuen-yu,  imperially  appointed  (the  *  former 

king'  is  probably  Jjj£,  the  second  emperor  of 

the  Chow  dynasty)  to  be  the  lord  of  the  Mung 
mountain,  that  is,  to  preside  over  the  sacrifices 
offered  to  it.  This  raised  him  high  above  any 
mere  ministers  Or  officers  of  Loo.  Tfrie  moun- 
tain Mung  is  in  the  present  distinct  of  Pe,  in  the 
department  of  E-choW.  It  was  Called  eastern,  to 
distinguish  it  from  another  of  the  same  name  in 

Shen-sc,  which  was  the  Western  Mung.    j|^ 

^  ffi  Jjfc  <H  Pf?, — this  is  mentioned,  to 
show  that  Chuen-yu  was  so  situated  as  to  give 
Loo  no  occasion  for  apprehension.    JJJjq  ;fS 


j£  U»  'a  minister  of  the  altars  to  the  spirits 
of  the  land  and  grain.'  Td  those  spirits  only, 
the  prince  had  the  prerogative  of  sacrificing. 
The  chief  of  Chuen-ytl  hsvirtg  this,  how  dared 
an  officer  of  Loo  to  think  of  attacking  bimf 
The  E  is  used  of  his  relation  to  the  emperor. 

Choo  He  makes  the  phrase=£^V  f££  ^  |J» 
'a  minister  of  the  ducal  house,"  saying  that  the 
three  families  had  usurped  all  the  dominion* 
proper  of  Loo,  leaving  only  the  chiefs  of  the  at- 
tached states  to  appear  In  the  ducal  court.  I 
prefer  the  former  interpretation.  -feT  W  « 
jgfc  must  be  understood  with  reference  to  the 
Ke.    '^S  appears  to  be  an  expletive,  unless  we 

conceive  it  joined  with  the  -feT ,  the  two  char- 
acters together  being  simply=*wh/'  or  'how.' 
5.  ^fc  -3r,  our  faster' t.  «.,  the  chief  of  ths 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COOTtJCIAK  ANALECTS. 


ITS 


m 
...  2.  it  X  *=?>£.&& 

&&$£  fit, 


11.  "  So  it  is.— Therefore,  if  remoter  people  are  not  submissive, 
&U  the  influences  of  civil  culture  and  virtue  are  to  be  cultivated  to 
attract  them  to  be  so ;  and  when  they  have  been  so  attracted,  they 
must  be  made  contented  and  tranquil. 

12.  "Now,  here  are  you,  Yew  and  KW,  assisting  your  chief. 
Remoter  people  are  not  submissive,  and,  with  your  kelp,  he  cannot 
attract  them  to  him.  In  his  own  territory  there  are  divisions  and 
downfalls,  leavings  and  separations,  and,  with  your  help,  he  cannot 
preserve  it. 

13.  "  And  yet  he  is  planning  these  hostile  movements  within  our 
state. — -I  am  afraid  that  the  sorrow  of  the  Ke-sun  family  will  not 
be  on  account  of  Chuen-yu,  but  will  be  found  within  the  screen  of 
their  own  court." 


fce  family.  6.  Chow  Jin  is  by  Choo  He  limply 
called — 'a  good  historiographer  of  ancient  times/ 
Bom*  trace  him  back  to  the  Shang  dynasty,  and 
others  only  to  the  early  times  of  the  Chow. 
There  are  other  weighty  utterances  of  his  in 
Togne,  besides  that  in  the  text  7.  Choo  He  ex- 
plains fj{l  by  |gJ><^Va  wild  bull*  The  diet. 
•ays  it  is  like  an  ox,  and  goes  on  to  describe  it 
•i  'one-homeoV    The  ^  ^j£,  gfc  ^,  says 

tint  KJ  and  §jl  are  different  terms  for  the 
same  animal,  u  e.,  the  rhinoceros.  I  cannot 
think  that  |j^  here  is  the  living  .tortoise.  That 

*ould  not  be  kept  in  a  if£,  or  'coffer/  like  a 

fern.  Perhaps  the  term  is,  by  mistake,  for  -^. 

$•  The  regimen  of  35i  extends  down  to  the  end 

of  the  par.    =fc,— as  in  XI.  24.    ^aj^^i* 

the  same  idiom  as  ^  ^  55?,  V.  7.    10. 

Conf.  uses  the  term  EB   here,  with  ref.  to  the 

Itap. 8.  j$, 'equity,'  ||#$;g#, 


'means— every  one  getting  his  own  proper  name 
and  place.'  From  this  point,  Conf.  speaks  of  the 
general  disorganisation  of  Loo  tinder  the  man- 
agement of  the  three  families,  and  especially  of 

the  Ke.    By  i^|    A  we  certainly  cannot  un- 

stand  the  people  of  Chuen-yu.  11.  ^  ii  to  be 
understood  with  a  hiphil  force, l  to  make  to  come,1 
'to  attract/  12.  ^  g|  fc  ^  £g  ^,  are 
to  be  understood  of  the  head  of  the  Ke  family, 
as  controlling  the  government  of  Loo,  and  at 
being  assisted  by  the  two  disciples,  so  that  the  re- 
proof falls  heavily  on  them.  13.  ^£  bh  )j|| 
^  ^,— Choo  He  simply  says  j||  ^,  ffi 

-ra.,  ' seaowts'eang  means  a  screen.'  In  the 
diet.,  after  CbHng  K'ang-shing,  seaau  in  this 
pass.^lg,   *  reverent,'  and  Jjjg?  alone  means 

1  screen,'  and  the  phrase  is  thus  explained : — 
*  Officers,  on  reaching  the  screen,  which  they  had 
only  to  pass,  to  find  themselves  in  the  presence 
of  their  head)  were  supposed  to  become  more 
reverential ' ;  and  hence,  the  expression  in  the 
text» 'among  his  own  immediate  officers.'. 


gle 


174 


CONFUCIAH  AHALBCTO. 


W*o  /V( 


3£  it 

—  ^  7> 
**& 


+  &  55  M'J 


Chapter  II.  1.  Confucius  said,  "When  good  government  pre- 
vails in  the  empire,  ceremonies,  music,  and  punitive  military  expedi- 
tions, proceed  from  the  emperor.  When  bad  government  prevails 
in  the  empire,  ceremonies,  music,  and  punitive  military  expeditions 
proceed  from  the  princes.  When  these  things  proceed  from  the 
princes,  as  a  rule,  the  cases  will  be  few  in  which  they  do  not  lose 
their  power  in  ten  generations.  When  they  proceed  from  the  great 
officers  of  the  princes,  as  a  rule,  the  cases  will  be  few  in  which  they 
do  not  lose  their  power  in  five  generations.  When  the  subsidiary 
ministers  of  the  great  officers  hold  in  their  grasp  the  orders  of  the 
kingdom,  as  a  rule,  the  cases  will  be  few  in  which  they  do  not  lose 
their  power  in  three  generations. 

2.  "When  right  principles  prevail  in  the  empire,  government 
will  not  be  in  the  hands  of  the  great  officers. 

3.  "When  right  principles  prevail  in  the  empire,  there  will  be 
no  discussions  among  the  common  people." 

which  the  emperor  might  order  such  expedition*. 
On  the  imperial  prerogatives,  see  the  ffa  Eg|, 
XXVUL  g,  is  here=^  jfo  'genersllr 
speaking,'  « as  a  rule.'  |f*  gH£  £, 
'family-ministers,'  fjj|  jfij  are  the  same  « the 
prerious  |g,  £$,  ^£,  fa  bat  hiring  bees 
usurped  by  the  princes,  and  now  again  snatched 
from  them  by  their  officers,  they  can  no  longer 
be  spoken  of  as  imperial  affairs,  but  only  ** 

H  £  ^  ' ,tate  mnen-' s-  tt-ft  S 

•  private  discussions ; '  I  en  about  the  said  state 
of  public  affairs. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


1.  The  supreme  authority  ought  iter  to 
mainta!*  its  power.  the  yiolatioff  of  thi8 
rule  always  leads  to  ruin,  which  is  speedier 
▲8  the  rank  op  the  violator  is  lower  — in 
these  utterances,  Conf.  had  reference  to  the 
disorganised  state  of  the  empire,  when  *  the  son 
of  Heaven '  was  fast  becoming  an  empty  name, 
the  princes  of  states  were  in  bondage  to  their 
great  officers,  and  those  again  at  the  mercy  of 

their  family  ministers.    1.  >o  jf?,  sffi  1§, 

—compare  XTV.  1.  ^J£  ^j£  are  to  be  taken 
together,  as  in  the  transL  We  read  of  four 
fjf ;,  t.  e.,  expeditions, — east,  west,  north,  and 

south ;  and  of  nine  4jfc  i.  en  nine  grounds  on 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


175 


=  ^  Ife  H3  ^  » it  it  ^ 
«  -  H  n  ^  n    -  ^  ^ 


Chapteb  III.  Confucius  said,  "  The  revenue  of  the  state  has  left 
he  ducal  house,  now  for  five  generations.  The  government  has  been 
n  the  hands  of  the  great  officers  for  four  generations.  On  this 
iccount,  the  descendants  of  the  three  Hwan  are  much  reduced." 

Chapter  IV.  Confucius  said,  "There  are  three  friendships 
frtiich  are  advantageous,  and  three  which  are^njurious.  Friendship 
with  the  upright;  friendship  with  the  sincere;  and  friendship  with 
the  man  of  much  observation : — these  are  advantageous.  Friendship 
with  the  man  of  specious  airs;  friendship  with  the  insinuatingly  soft; 
and  friendship  with  the  glib-tongued : — these  are  injurious.' 

Chapteb  V.  Confucius  said,  "There  are  three  things  men  find 
enjoyment  in  which  are  advantageous,  and  three  things  they  find 
enjoyment  in  which  are  injurious.  To  find  enjoyment  in  the  dis- 
criminating study  of  ceremonies  and  music ;  to  find  enjoyment  in 


8.  Illustration  or  the  principles  of  the 
Ust  chapter.  In  the  year  B.C.  608,  at  the 
death  of  duke  Wan,  his  rightful  heir  yu  kitted, 
mm  the  son  of  a  concubine  raised  to  the  duke- 
dom. He  is  in  the  annals  as  duke  Seuen  (*gf  ), 
tod  after  him  came  Shing,  Seang,  Ch'aou,  and 
Ting,  in  whose  time  this  must  have  been  spoken. 
These  dukes  were  but  shadows,  pensionaries  of 
war  great  officers,  so  that  it  might  be  said  the 
revenue  had  gone  from  them.  Obs.  that  here  and 

fa  the  prec  eh,,  jjjfc  is  used  for  ' a  reign/  'The 
three  Hwan'  are  the  three  families,  as  being  all 
descended  from  duke  Hwan;  see  on   n.   5. 

IK  ^.—'therefore,'  uttered  with  a  sigh.— - 
Choo  He  appears  to  have  fallen  into  a  mistake 
m  numerating  the  four  heads  of  the  Ke  family 
*ho  had  administered  the  government  of  Loo 
*»  Woo,  Taou,  Ping,  and  Hwan,  as  Taou  (ffi) 
djjed  before  his  father,  and  would  not  be  said 
therefore  to  have  the  government  in  his  hands, 
fce  ri$ht  enumeration  is  Wto  (jj^X  Woo 


(jj£).  P1ng(2|I),  and  Hwan  og).    Seethe 

4.  Three  friendships  advantageous,  and 
three  injurious.    In  the  m  "tT  it  is  said-— 

>H  ffei  ti  K <after  —% the  cbar* 

acter  "71  is  always  verbal  and=^P,  'to  have 
intercourse  with.*  It  is  as  well  to  translate  the 
term  by  'friendship'  throughout,  go  is  here 
'  sincere,'  without  the  subtractions  required  in 
XIV.  18,  8,  XV.  86.    ^,-here-^g  $fc, 

'practised.'  ||,  |£,-|^£X»  #  * 

skilfulness  in  being  bland.  J^,  as  in  XI.  17, 8. 

5.  Three  sources  of  enjoyment  advan- 
tageous, and  three  isjuRiouB.  Here  we  have 
J||  with  three  pronunciations  and 


176 


convaAa  ahalbcts. 


zKwMMMJim&m 

^     IF  >ft  W 


3ptk     ph  is  ii  *W 

•peaking  of  the  goodness  of  others ;  to  find  enjoyment  in  harin 
many  worthy  friends : — these  are  advantageous.  To  find  enjoyma 
in  extravagant  pleasures ;  to  find  enjoyment  in  idleness  and  saunte 
ing;  to  find  enjoyment  in  the  pleasures  of  feasting: — these  are  h 
jurious." 

Chapter  VI.  Confucius  said,  "There  are  three  errors  to  whic 
they  who  stand  in  the  presence  of  a  man  of  virtue  and  station  ai 
liable.  They  may  speak  when  it  does  not  come  to  them  to  speak 
—this  is  called  rashness.  They  may  not  speak  when  it  comes  t 
them  to  speak ; — this  is  called  concealment.  They  may  speak  wit! 
out  looking  at  the  countenance  of  their  superior; — this  is  calle 
blindness.' 

Chapter  VII.  Confucius  said,  "There  are  three  things  whic 
the  superior  man  guards  against     In  youth,  when  the  physi* 


different  meaning!.  The  leading  word  if  read 
ngaouy  low.  8d  tone, '  to  have  enjoyment  in,'  ai 
in  VI.  21.    In|glfg,itia^  'mniic'    The 

two  others  are  g£|,  /<*,  'joy/  'to  delight  in.' 

#  II  3&-|jf-f&  £.  I*,  it  to  a  ^ 
4 to  discriminate;*  'to  mark  the  divisions  o£' 
The  idea  is  that  ceremonies  and  music  contain- 
ing in  them  the  principles  of  propriety  and 
harmony,  the  study  of  them  could  not  but  be  be- 
neficial to  the  student  himself,  as  haying  to  ex- 
emplify both  of  those  things.  BJ|,  primarily,  a 
4  tall  horse,'  often  used  for  '  proud';  here,=rain 
and  extravagant  self-indulgence.  ££,  'feasting;' 
including,  says  a  gloss, '  eating,  drinking,  musk, 
women,  &c' 


6.  Tirana  xmaoaa  nr  kbqakd  to  sfuch  t 

BK  AVOIDED  DC  THB   FRSSSXCB  OF  THB  eiEAl 

jBr  -7*,  according  to  Choo  He,  denotes 
4  a  man  both  of  rank  and  virtue,'  'Without  look 
ing  at  the  conntenance,'— %  «^  to  see 
he  is  paying  attention  or  not— The  . 
principle  is  that  there  is  a  time  to  speak, 
that  be  observed,  and  these  three  errors  vfll  bi 
avoided. 

7.  Thb  TIOBS  WHICH  TOOTH,  HAHHOOD,  MX* 
▲OB,  HAVB  TO  GUARD  AGADTST.      ifjf  4S, 

and  breath.'    In  the  *£  Jg,  XXI,  foft 

JJDL  ^|S£  ^t**'**1  hnmj|n  hemga.'  Here  la* 
phrase  is  equivalent  to  'the  physical  poven.*1 
On  jjcj^i  'not  yet  settled,*  the  gloss  in  Uw 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAK  ANALECTS. 


177 


±.Bz,%zn^fiLm& 


&>3L  mM  mJi  31* 


'JL'.Hffo^f 


22  <£?  BP  ~  M  &  & 

AWAH.     &»# 


powers  are  not  yet  settled,  he  guards  against  lust  When  he  ia 
strong,  and  the  physical  powers  are  full  of  vigour,  he  guards  against 
quarrelsomeness.  When  he  is  old,  and  the  animal  powers  are  decay- 
ed, he  guards  against  covetousness." 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  Confucius  said,  "There  are  three  things  of 
which  the  superior  man  stands  in  awe.  He  stands  in  awe  of  the 
ordinances  of  Heaven.  He  stands  in  awe  of  great  men.  He  stands 
in  awe  of  the  words  of  sages. 

2.  "  The  mean  man  does  not  know  the  ordinances  of  Heaven, 
and  consequently  does  not  stand  in  awe  of  them.  He  is  disrespect- 
ful to  great  men.     He  makes  sport  of  the  words  of  sages," 

Chapter  IX.  Confucius  said,  "  Those  who  are  born  with  the 
possession  of  knowledge  are  the  highest  class  of  men.  Those  who 
learn,  and  so,  readily,  get  possession  of  knowledge,  are  the  next. 

##i»— ^^^^'thetimewhenthoy 

are  moving  most.'  A*  to  what  causal  relation 
Conf.  may  hare  supposed  to  exist  between  the 
state  of  the  physical  powers,  and  the  several 
vices  indicated,  that  is  not  developed.  Hing 
Ping  explains  the  first  caution  thus ;— *  Youth 
embraces  all  the  period  below  29.  Then,  the 
physical  powers  are  still  weak,  and  the  sinews 
and  bones  have  mot  reached  their  vigour,  and 
fodalgeace  in  lust  will  injure  the  body/' 

8.    Couth  a  st  of  the  superior  and  the 
xea*  ma«  lh  regard  to  the  three  things  of 

"WE  THE  FORMER  STANDS  IN  AWE.      ^  jj^, 

•©cording  to  Choo  lie,  means  the  moral  nature 
°f  man,  conferred  by  Heaven.  High  above  the 
nature  of  other  creatures,  it  lays  him  under 
jH**t  responsibility  to  cherish  and  cultivate 
Dim.  The  old  interpr.  take  the  phrase  to  indi- 
cate Heaveu's  moral  administration  by  rewards 


and  punishments*  The  'great  men'  are  men 
high  in  position  and  great  in  wisdom  and  vir- 
tue, the  royal  instructors,  who  have  been  raised 
np  by  Heaven  for  the  training  and  ruling  of 

mankind.    So,  the  commentators ;  but  the  jBB 

suggests  at  once  a  more  general  and  a  lower 
view  of  the  phrase. 

9.  Four  classes  of  mew  nr  relation  to 
knowledge.  On  the  1st  clause,  see  on  VII, 
19,  where  Conf.  disclaims  for  himself  being 
ranked  in  the  first  of  the  classes  here  mentioned. 
The  modern  commentators  say,  that  men  are 

differenced  here  by  the  difference  of  their  jh? 

W' or  ^HtHl'  €ia  wmcn8ee  Morrison's  diet., 
part,  II.  vol  I.  char.  ^  gj,  in  the  diet.,  and 
by  commentators,  old  and  new,  is  explained  by 
J&  jS,  'not  thoroughly  understanding.'    It 

Digitized  by  VaOOQK 


81 


178 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


1=1      %© 


~  M  Si  W  K 
&  JS  H  ^  li 

&  JB  *,  £<,&> 

Those  who  are  dull  and  stupid*  and  vet  compass  the  learning  are 
another  class  next  to  these.  As  to  tnose  who  are  dull  and  stupid 
and  yet  do  not  learn ; — they  are  the  lowest  of  the  people." 

Chapter  X.  Confucius  said,  "The  superior  man  has  nine  things 
which  are  subjects  with  him  of  thoughtful  consideration.  In  regard 
to  the  use  of  his  eyes,  he  is  anxious  to  see  clearly.  In  regard  to 
the  use  of  his  ears,  he  is  anxious  to  hear  distinctly.  In  regard  to 
his  countenance,  he  is  anxious  that  it  should  be  benign.  In  regard 
to  his  demeanour,  he  is  anxious  that  it  should  be  respectful.  In 
regard  to  his  speech,  he  is  anxious  that  it  should  be  sincere.  In 
regard  to  his  doing  of  business,  he  is  anxious  that  it  should  be  re- 
verently careful.  In  regard  to  what  he  doubts  about,  he  is  anxious 
to  question  others.  When  he  is  angry,  he  thinks  of  the  difficulties 
his  anger  may  involve  him  in.  When  he  sees  gain  to  be  got,  he 
thinks  of  rignteousness." 

Chapter  XI.  1.  Confucius  said,  "Contemplating  good,  and 
pursuing  it,  as  if  they  could  not  reach  it;  contemplating  evil, 
and  shrinking  from  tf,  as  they  would  from  thrusting  the  hand  into 
boiling  water : — I  have  seen  such  men,  as  I  have  heard  such  words. 


is  not  to  be  joined  with  «|&,  at  if  the  meaning 
were — *  they  learn  with  painful  effort,  although 
auch  effort  will  be  required  in  the  case  of  the 

a 

10.  Nine  subjects  of  thouoht  to  the  su- 
perior MAN  : — VARIOUS  INSTANCES  OP  THE  WAY 
IN    WHICH    HE    REGULATES    HIMSELF.      The  COH- 

ciseness  of  the  text  contrasts  here  with  the 
verbosity  of  the  translation,  and  yet  the  nianjr 
words  of  the  Utter  seem  necessary. 


11.      The  contemporaries  op   ConFixirs 

CO!  LD  ESCHEW  EVIL,  AND  FOLLOW  AFTER  GOOD, 
BUT  NO  ONE  OF  THE  HIGHEST  CAPACITY  HAD  AP- 
PEARED among  them.  1.  The  two  first  clauses 
here  and  in  the  next  par.,  also,  are  quotations  of 
old  sayings,  current  in  Confucius'  time.  Such 
men  were  several  of  the  sage's  own  disdpkt. 

2.  5J£  Ji£  ^,  'seeking  for  their  aims;*  is, 
meditating  on  them,  studying  them,  fixing 
them,  to  be  prepared  to  carry  them  out,  as  ii 
the  next  clause.  Such  men  among  the  ancient* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


COOTDCIAN  ANALECTS 


179 


&0W  *■ .B9  £-if  if  £  H  $> 
#>  0>  *  :£t  if  T\  M  T  JL  J# 

2.  "Living  in  retirement  to  study  their  aims,  and  practising 
righteousness  to  carry  out  their  principles : — I  have  heard  these 
fcrords,  but  I  have  not  seen  such  men." 

Chapter  XII.  1.  The  duke  King  of  Ts'e  had  a  thousand  teams, 
each  of  four  horses,  but  on  the  day  of  his  death,  the  people  did  not 
praise  him  for  a  single  virtue.  P4ih-e  and  Shuh-ts'e  died  of  hun- 
ger at  the  foot  of  the  Show-yang  mountain,  and  the  people,  down 
to  the  present  time,  praise  them. 

2.     " Is  not  that  saying  illustrated  by  this?" 

Chapter  XIII.  1.  Ch'in  K'ang  asked  Pih-yu,  saying,  "Have 
you  heard  any  lessons  from  your  father  different  from  what  we  have 
all  heard?" 

2.  Pih-yu  replied,  "  No.  He  was  standing  alone  once,  when  I 
passed  below  the  hall  with  hasty  steps,  and  said  to  me,  'Have  you 
learned  the  Odes?'  On  my  replying  4Not  yet,'  he  added,  ( If  you 
do  not  learn  the  Odes,  you  will  not  be  fit  to  converse  with.'  I  retired 
and  studied  the  Odes. 


*ere  the  great  ministers  E-yem  and  T*ae-kung. 
foch  might  the  disciple  Yen  Hwuy  have  been, 
tat  in  early  death  snatched  him  away  before 
fe  could  have  an  opportunity  of  showing  what 
^m  in  him. 

12.  Wbalth  without  virtue  and  virtue 
*hhow  wealth  ; — their  different  apprb- 
cutiohs.  This  chapter  is  plainly  a  fragment. 
At  it  standi,  it  would  appear  to  come  from  the 
ftxnpilers  and  not  from  Confucius.  Then  the 
fl  PV.  implies  a  reference  to  something  which 
■••been  lost  Under  XII.  10, 1  have  referred 
*•  toe  proposal  to  transfer  to  this  place  the  last 


par.  of  that  chapter  which  might  be  explained, 
so  as  to  harmonise  with  the  sentiment  of  this. 
—The  duke  King  of  Ts'e,— see  XII.  11.  Pih-e 
and  Shuh-ts'e,— see  VI.  22.  The  mountain 
Show-yang  is  to  be  found  probably  in  the  dep. 

of  ^  j^  in  Shan-se. 

18.  Confucius'  instruction  of  his  son  not 
different  from  his  instruction  of  the  disci- 
PLES generally.  1.  Ch'in  K*ang  is  the  Tsze-k'in 
of  I.  10.  When  Confucius'  eldest  son  was  born, 
the  duke  of  Loo  sent  the  philosopher  a  present 


of  a  carp,  on  which  account  he  named  the  chili 

Digitized  by  VjOO 


&fc 


180 


CONPUCtAR  ASAL£CT8. 


£.A£*I&I;l&7IcW£ 

A*£>    XmM'm^X 
0      HISI9r&afi 


3-  "Another  dav,  he  was  in  the  same  way  standing  alone,  when 
I  passed  by  below  the  hall  with  hasty  steps,  and  said  to  me,  'Hare 
you  learned  the  rules  of  Propriety  V  On  my  replying 'Not  yet,' 
he  added)  i  If  you  do  not  learn  the  rules  of  Propriety,  your  character 
cannot  be  established.'  I  then  retired,  and  studied  the  rules  d 
Propriety. 

4.  "I  have  heard  only  these  two  things  from  him." 

5.  Chin  K'ang  retired,  and,  quite  delighted,  said,  "I  asked  one 
thing,  and  I  have  got  three  things.  I  have  heard  about  the  Ota 
I  have  heard  about  the  rules  of  Propriety.  I  have  also  heard  thai 
the  superior  man  maintains  a  distant  reserve  towards  his  son. 

Chapter  XIV.  The  wife  of  the  prince  of  a  State  is  called  by  kirn 
tfoo-JiN.   She  calls  herself  seaou  t*ung.    The  people  of  the  State  call 

£g,  (the  carp),  and  afterwards  gare  him  the 
designation  of  fft$.  YJf'ftMW 
.3p, '  Hare  you  dUo  (t  e^  as  being  his  son)  heard 
different  instructions?'  2.  On  §£  here,  and 
jjjg,  next  par.,  see  on  VH  17.  Before  y^J A, 
here  and  below,  we  must  supply  a  P|.  8.  -jfr, 
—see  VUI.  8.  4.  The  force  of  the  yft  is  to 
make  the  whole-*'  what  I  hare  heard  from  him 
are  only  these  two  remarks/  5.  Confucius  is, 
no  doubt,  intended  by  3§*-^,  but  it  is  best  to 
translate  it  generally. 

14.  Appkllatiohs  *om  the  wifb  of  a 
Prince.  This  chapter  may  have  been  spoken  by 
Confucius  to  rectify  some  disorder  of  the  times, 


but  there  is  no  intimation  to  that  effect  The 
different  appellations  may  be  thus  espiained  :— 

^iiMQ  ^^, 'she  who  is  her  bM- 
band's  equal*  The  ^  in  dU  A  is  taken  sf 
** tfc  <i0  ^PP0**'  'to  help/  so  tint  that 
designation  is  equivalent  to  'helpmeet'  j£ 
means  either 'a  youth,'  or  'a  girl1  The  wife 
modestly  calls  herself  /J\  j^, ( the  DtUe  girt* 
The  old  interpreters  take— most  naturally-- 

#^c  A  -*#  Z  ^  A  >'w  »*"* 

help-meet,'  but  the  modern  comm.  take  jSt 
adjectiYely,  •*«:£:,  with  reference  to  the  oft* 
of  the  wife  to '  preside  oyer  the  internal  eeauMJ 


of  the  palace.'    On 

Digitized  by 


C0OTUC1AN  AKALECTS. 


AM  xmnw;* 


181 


her  keun  foo-jin,  and,  to  the  people  of  other  States,  they  call  her 
k4wa  seaou  keun.     The  people  of  other  states  also  call  her  keun 

frOO-JIN. 


4  the  domestic  help-meet/  The  ambassador  of 
a  prince  spoke  of  him  by  the  style  of  *wt  3g  , 
*  my  prince  of  small  virtue.*  After  that  example 
of  modesty,  his  Wife  was  styled  to  the  people 


of  other  States,  'our  small  prince  of  small 
virtue.'  The  people  of  other  States  had  no 
reason  to  imitate  her  subjects  in  that,  and  so 
they  styled  her— 'your  prince's  help-meet,'  or 
'the  domestic  help-meet.' 


BOOK  XVII.  YANG  HO. 


KW  £  ^  SMi  *L  :*  #  * 


Chapter  L  1.  Yang  Ho  wished  to  see  Confucius,  but  Confucius 
Would  not  go  to  see  him.  On  this,  he  sent  a  present  of  a  pig  to 
Confucius,  who,  having  chosen  a  time  when  Ho  was  not  at  home, 
went  to  pay  his  respects  for  the  gift.  He  met  him,  however,  on  the 
Way. 

2.  Ho  said  to  Confucius,  "Come,  let  me  speak  with  you."  He  then 
asked,  "  Can  he  be  called  benevolent,  who  keeps  his  jewel  in  his  bo- 


Headdco  of  this  Boo*.— J£  4S1  j&  -4- 

Jfc  l  Yin&  Ho,  No.  XVIi:— As  the  last  Book 
commenced  with  the  presumption  of  the  Head 
of  the  Ke  family,  who  kept  his  prince  in  subjec- 
tion, this  begins  with  an  account  of  an  officer, 
*ho  did  for  the  head  of  the  Ke  what  he  did  for 
the  duke  of  Loo.  For  this  reason — some  simi- 
larity in  the  subject  matter  of  the  first  chapters 
^-tais  Book,  it  is  said,  is  placed  after  the  former. 
It  contains  20  chapters. 


1.  CONFUCIUS'  POLITE  BUT  DIGNIFIED  TREAT- 
MENT OF  A  POWERFUL,  BUT  USURPING  AND  UN- 
WORTHY, officer.  1.  Tang  Ho,  known  also  as 
Tang  Hoo  (  EF),  was  nominally  the  principal 
minister  of  the  Ke  family,  but  Its  chief  was 
entirely  in  his  hands,  and  he  was  scheming  to 
arrogate  the  whole  authority  of  the  state  of  Loo 
to  himself*  He  first  appears  in  the  Chronicles  of 
Loo  about  the  year  B.  C.  508,  acting  against 
the  exiled  duke  Ch*m ,  to  |fcC&  $£$  i* 


182 


C05FUCIAK  AXALBCTS. 


som,  and  leaves  his  country  to  confusion  ?"  Confucius  replied,  aX 
"  Can  he  be  called  wise,  who  is  anxious  to  be  engaged  in  public  a 
ployment,  and  yet  is  constantly  losing  the  opportunity  of  being  so1 
Confucius  again  said,  "No."  "The  days  and  months  are  passu 
away ;  the  years  do  not  wait  for  us."  Confucius  said,  "  Bight ;  I 
go  into  office." 

Chapter  II.  The  Master  said,  "By  nature,  men  are  near 
alike ;  by  practice,  they  get  to  be  wide  apart" 

Chapter  III.  The  Master  said,  "There  are  only  the  wise  of  tl 
highest  class,  and  the  stupid  of  the  lowest  class,  who  cannot  1 
changed." 

him  keeping  hie  own  chief;  Ke  Hwan  a  prisoner, 
and,  in  601,  he  it  driven  oat,  on  the  failure  of 
his  projects,  a  fngittre  into  Ts^e.  At  the  time 
when  the  incidents  in  this  ch.  occurred,  Tang 
Ho  was  anxious  to  get,  or  appear  to  get,  the 
support  of  a  man  of  Conf.  reputation,  and 
finding  that  the  sage  would  not  call  on  him, 
he  adopted  the  expedient  of  sending  him  a 
pig,  at  a  time  when  Conf.  was  not  at  home, 
the  rules  of  ceremony  requiring  that  when 
a  great  officer  sent  a  present  to  a  scholar,  and 
the  latter  was  not  in  his  house  on  its  antral,  he 
had  to  go  to  the  officer's  house  to  acknowledge  it 

See  the  Le-ke,  XUL  iii.  SO.  g§  is  in  the  sense 

of  4ft,  'to  present  food,'  properly  'before  a 
superior.'  Confucius,  however,  was  not  to  be  en- 
trapped.   He  also  timed  (|^jp,  as  a  verb)  Hoo's 

being  away  from  home  ( YT),  and  went  to  call 

on  him.  2.  j^  l|£  SK,  'deludes,  confuses, 
his  country,'  but  the  meaning  is  only  negative, 
-■'  leaves  his  country  to  confusion.'  Jjfa  read 
Ve,  up.  8d  tone,  'frequently.'  |J|—  ^  f|, 
—all  this  is  to  be  taken  as  the  remark  of  Tang 
Ho,  and  a  £3  supplied  before  £J .  ;jfe  S^  ; 
03,  In  the  diet,  and  by  the  old  interpreters,  is 

here  explained,  as  in  the  translation  by  ^jjf, 
*  to  wait  for.' 


2.  Th»  mmaxKCBs  fit  tbtb  Chajuctbbs 

m  Ann  cbibflt  owtso  to  habit.    Mfc  it 

contended,  is  here  not  the  moral  constit 
of  man,  absolutely  considered,  but  his  compk 
actual  nature,  with  its  element*  of  the  si 
terial,  the  animal,  and  the  intellectual,  by  as- 
sociation with  which,  the  perfectly  good  moral 
nature  is  continually  being  led  astray.  Tbs 
moral  nature  is  the  same  m  all,  and  though  tba 
material  organism  and  disposition  do  differ  is 
different  individuals,  they  are,  at  first,  mors 
nearly  alike  than  they  subsequently  become. 

In  the  |£  j£g,  we  read:— 'The  nature  fa  the 
constitution  received  by  man  at  birth,  and  a 
then  still.  While  it  has  not  been  acted  on  br 
external  things,  men  are  all  like  one  another; 

they  are  jg\    After  it  has  been  acted  on  by 

external  things,  then  practice  forms,  as  it  were* 
a  second  nature.  He  who  practises  whs*  a 
good,  becomes  the  superior  man,  and  he  who 
practises  what  is  not  good,  becomes  the  mesa 

man : — men  become  jj/Q  |fi  \— No  doubt,  H  it 

true  that  many — perhaps  most— of  the  differ- 
ences among  men  are  owing  to  habit. 

8.      OXLT  TWO  CLASSES  WHOM  FBACT1C*  Ctf  * 

xotchanqb.   This  is  a  sequel  to  the  last  chapter 


with  which  it  is 
The  case  of  the 
consistent  with 


incorporated] 


inHoAn'semnoa. 

would  seem  to  be  hv 

the  doctrine   of   the  perfect 
Modem 


goodness  of  the  moral  nature  of  all  i 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


18$ 


id 


oiasfe 


m  m  m  m  dm  at 

Chapter  IV.  1.  The  Master  having  come  to  Woo-hing,  heard 
*A<?r0  the  sound  of  stringed  instruments  and  singing. 

2.  Well-pleased  and  smiling,  he  said,  "  Why  use  an  ox-knife  to 
kill  a  fowl ?* 

3.  Tsze-yew  replied,  "Formerly,  Master,  I  heard  you  say, — 
*  When  the  man  of  high  station  is  well  instructed,  he  loves  men ; 
when  the  man  of  low  station  is  well  instructed,  he  is  easily  ruled/  " 

4.  The  Master  said,  "My  disciples,  Yen's  words  are  right.  What 
I  said  was  only  in  sport" 

Chapter  V.  1.  Kung-shan  Fuh-jaou,  when  he  was  holding  Pe, 
and  in  an  attitude  of  rebellion,  invited  the  Master  to  visit  him,  who 
was  rather  inclined  to  go. 

2.  Tsze-loo  was  displeased,  and  said,  "  Indeed  you  cannot  go ! 
Why  must  you  think  of  going  to  see  Kung-shan  ?  " 

commentators,  to  get  over  the  difficulty,  say 

that  thej  are  the  |§  |fe  %  ™d  g  §j|  % 
of  Mencius,  IV.  PtLx. 

4.     HOWKVBR  SMALL  THR  8PHEBB  OF  GOVERN- 


MENT, TUB  HIGHEST  INFLUENCES  OF  PROPRIETIES 
AW1>    MUSIC    SHOULD   BB   EMPLOYED.       1.    WOO- 

shing  was  in  the  district  of  Pe.  Tsze-yew  ap- 
pears as  the  commandant  of  it,  in  VI.  12.  Sfc, 

*  the  silken  string  of  a  musical  instrument,'  used 
here  for  stringed  instruments  generally.  In  the 

'fii    £T  we  read,  'The  town  was  named  Woo 

(jj^X  from  its  position,  precipitous  and  favour- 
able  to  military  operations,  hut  Tsze-yew  had 
been  able,  by  his  course,  to  transform  the  people, 
and  make  them  change  their  mail  and  helmets 
lor  stringed  instruments  snd  singing.   This  was 

what  made  the  Master  glad.'    2.  ^(readAoa, 


up.  2d  tone)  m, '  smilingly.*   *  An  ox-knife/  * 

large  instrument,  and  not  necessary  for  the  death 
of  a  fowl  Cont  intends  by  it  the  high  principles 

of  government  employed  by  Tsze-yew.  8.  jjS* 
-4r*  and  A\  h.  are  here  indicative  of  rank, 
and  not  of  character.  J£  35  '  are  easily  em- 
ployed, £.*.,  ffi^ffi   h>  'they  rest  in  their 

lot,  and  obey  their  superiors.'  4.  2^  ]^£  ^*t 
as  in  V7L  23,  H  al  Ob*,  the  force  of  the  final 
^,-4only.» 

5.  The  lengths  to  which  Cokptjcius  was 
rnclined  to  go,  to  okt  his  principles  carried 
into  practice.  Kung-shan  Fuh-jaou,  called 
also  Kung-shan  Fuh-new  (|3|;),  hy  designation 

¥$&  Wa8  *  coniederate  °*  Yan*  Ho  G*"  ft 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


184 


C0N7UCIAX  ANALECTS. 


&  A  HJ  $  5 

m  m  %  t 


.»    -H. 

^  ^  ^J 
$i  ijc  8& 

**      M 

ft     W 

8.  The  Master  said,  "  Can  it  be  without  some  reason  that  be 
has  invited  me  ?  If  any  one  employ  me,  may  I  not  make  an  eastern 
Chow?" 

Chapter  VI.  1.  Tsze-chang  asked  Confucius  about  perfect  vir- 
tue. Confucius  said,  "To  be  able  to  practise  five  things  everywhere 
under  heaven  constitutes  perfect  virtue."  He  begged  to  ask  what 
they  were,  and  was  told,  u  Gravity,  generosity  <y  soul,  sincerity, 
earnestness,  and  kindness.  If  you  are  grave,  you  will  not  be  treat- 
ed with  disrespect.  If  you  are  generous,  you  will  win  all.  If  you 
are  sincere,  people  will  repose  trust  in  you.  If  you  are  earnest,  you 
will  accomplish  much.  If  you  are  kind,  this  will  enable  you  to  em- 
ploy the  services  of  others. ' 

The  3k  m  ffl  3fe'  soA  f*  «  emptor 
The  original  seat  of  the  Chow  dynasty  lay  we* 
from  Loo,  and  the  revival  of  tteprincipte*  sad 
government  of  Wan  and  Woo  in  Loo,  or  even  io 
Pe,  which  was  hut  a  part  of  it,  might  make  to 
eastern  Chow;  to  that  Confucius  would  perform 
the  part  of  king  Wan.— After  all,  the  sag*  did 
not  go  to  Pe. 

6.    Fits  thihgs  tot  psactick  or  which 

CONSTITUTES  PERFECT  YIKTUB.     jfr  ^^    |V  *  ** 

under  heaven1  is  simplys'any  where.*  wj|| 
\  ffl,—i$:,  low  3d  tone,  is  expknsi  by 
ChooHebyj^^, ' to rdy  npon,* a meamaf 
of  the  term  not  found  in  the  dictionary.  6c* 
XX.  1,8. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


and  sec.  to  K'ung  Gan-kwft,  and  the  JJ 
it  was  after  the  imprisonment  by  them,  in  com- 
mon, of  Ke  Hwan,  that  Fuh-jaou  sent  this  invi- 
tation to  Conf.  Others  make  the  invitation  sub- 
sequent to  Ho's  discomfiture  and  flight  to  Ts*e. 

888  *»Mfi1fc$i!M>  *cm-  Wennu» 

conclude,  with  Tsze-loo,  that  Conf.  ought  not  to 
have  thought  of  accepting  the  invitation  of  such 

a  man.    2.  The  first  and  last  j£  are  the  verb. 

"%rU-  pjc£ilLE<="rh««i,no*0- 

ing  there.    Indeed  there  is  not'    ^jnf  jjfc  £%. 

\U$%<1'2L  ifc' ' whj  muit  there  **  «ofag 

to  (j£  here=to)  that  (such  is  the  force  of  Jj3^) 

Kung-shan?'    3.  ^  ^  ^  ^,-^  is  to 

be  taken  here  as  referring  expressly  to  Fuh- 
jaou,  while  its  reference  below  is  more  general 


*■ 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


185 


^ 


V 


Chapter  VII.  1.  Peih  Heih  inviting  him  to  visit  him,  the  Mas- 
ter was  inclined  to  go. 

2.  Tsze-loo  said,  "  Master,  formerly  I  have  heard  you  say,  *  When 
a  man  in  his  own  person  is  guilty  of  doing  evil,  a  superior  man  will 
not  associate  with  him.'  Peih  Heih  is  in  rebellion,  holding  pos- 
session of  Chung-mow ;  if  you  go  to  him,  what  shall  be  said  ? 

3.  The  Master  said,  "Yes,  I  did  use  these  words.  But  is  it  not 
said,  that,  if  a  thing  be  really  hard,  it  may  be  ground  without  be- 
ing made  thin?  Is  it  not  said,  that,  if  a  thing  be  really  white,  it 
may  be  steeped  in  a  dark  fluid  without  being  made  black? 

4.  "  Am  I  a  bitter  gourd !  How  can  I  be  hung  up  out  of  the  way 
of  being  eaten  ?H 

^C  Q  ii  to  be  taken  interrogatively,  ae  in  the 
translation.  Ping'f  paraphrase  ia— A  |§|  ^j£ 
Q,  *do  not  men  say?'  g£  ^  ^  2T»~ 
'Is  a  thing  hard,  then,'  Ac.    \£|  is  explained— 

4  black  earth  in  water,  which  may  be  used  to  dye 
a  black  colour/  The  application  of  these  strange 
proverbial  sayings  is  to  Conf.  himself,  as,  from 
his  superiority,  incapable  of  being  affected  by 
evil  communications.    4.  This  par.  is  variously 

explained.  By  some,  £&  JJ^  is  taken  as  the 
name  of  a  star;  so  that  the  meaning  is— *  Am  J, 
like  such  and  such  a  star,  to  be  hung  up,  &c?* 
But  we  need  not  depart  from  the  proper  meaning 
of  the  characters.  Choo  He,  with  Uo  An,  takes 
yK  ^£  actively :— 'A  gourd  can  be  hung  up, 
because  it  does  not  need  to  eat.  But  I  must  go 
about,  north,  south,  east,  and  west,  to  get  food.* 
This  seems  to  me  very  unnatural.  The  expres- 
sion is  taken  passively,  as  in  the  translation,  in 
the  R  US,  and  other  works. 

|-P     HIV  ^-^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


7.  Confucius,  inclihed  to  respond  to  the 
advances  ov  alt  unworthy  man,  protb8ts 
against  his  cos d oct  being  j0dgkd  bt  ordin- 
ARY bulks.  Comp,  ch.  V ;  but  the  invitation  of 
Peih  Heih  was  subsequent  to  that  of  Kung-shan 
Fuh-jaou,  and  after  Conf.  had  given  up  office  in 
Tjoo.  1.  jA  (read  Peih)  Hi  In  was  commandant 
of  Chung-mow,  for  the  chief  of  the  Chaou  family, 
in  the  state  of  Tsin.  2  .||  ^  #  |f  % 
yK  &  ^f\— '  be  who  himself,  in  his  own  per- 
son, does  what  is  not  good.'  ^|\  ^,— ace  to 
KSmg  aan-kwd\«y^  >\  itt  g,  'does  not 
enter  his  state;'  ace  to  Choo  He,  it~*y|\  j\ 
It  *%£,  'does  not  enter  his  party.'   There  were 

two  Maees  of  the  name  of  Chung-mow,  one  be- 
lomgUg  to  the  state  of  Chlng,  and  the  other  to 

She  state  of  Tsin  (?§0,  which  is  that  intended 
here,  and  is  referred  to  the  present  district  of  ^gp 
',  dep.  of  j§^  45§J,  in  Ho-nan  province.    8. 


& 


186 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


«.  C  «fe  JK. »  flu  3fr.  *  B, 
#  #  »  ft  ft  #*¥.  ft 

m  in*  *=»•*. 

7»  7»-7»  7»  3S  7»  0>3fc 

^  *Pl  ^  ^  Ep»  Jf&>  jfc^>> 

-JELL     ..  Fl  .       H ,        H .     —EL     —EL     "ILL"  Ml    j~t 
>*%     ->%      >*N      >*N     >*N      >*N      /HI      tt 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  The  Master  eaid,  "Yew,  have  you  heard  thcr 
six  words  to  which  are  attached  six  becloudings?"  Yew  replied^ 
44 1  have  not."  ] 

2.  u  Sit  down,  and  I  will  tell  them  to  you.  ] 

3.  "There  is  the  love  of  being  benevolent  without  the  love  of 
learning; — the  beclouding  here  leads  to  a  foolish  simplicity.  There 
is  the  love  of  knowing  witnout  the  love  of  learning ; — the  beclouding 
here  leads  to  dissipation  of  mind.  There  is  the  love  of  being  sincere 
without  the  love  of  learning; — the  beclouding  here  leads  to  an 
injurious  disregard  of  consequences.  There  is  the  love  of  straight- 
forwardness without  the  love  of  learning; — the  beclouding  here 
leads  to  rudeness.  There  is  the  love  of  boldness  without  the  love 
of  learning; — the  beclouding  here  leads  to  insubordination.  There 
is  the  love  of  firmness  without  the  love  of  learning ; — the  becloud- 
ing here  leads  to  extravagant  conduct." 


8.  KNOWLEDGE,  ACQUIRED  BY  LEARNING,  18 
XECEB8ARY  TO  THE  COMPLRTIOX  OF  VIRTUE,  BY 
PRI8BRYIXQ  THE  MIND  FROM  BRING    BECLOUDED. 

*•  S*  INi^^2,  <The  sU  1?  are  sU 

characters' ;  see  the  'fifjj  gT.  They  are,  there- 
fore, the  benevolence,  knowledge,  sincerity, 
straight-forwardness,  boldness,  and  firmness, 
mentioned  below,  all  virtues,  but  yet  each,  when 
pursued  without  discrimination,  tending  to  be- 
cloud the  mind.  $j£==i{§t  i|^» <to  cover  and 
screen ;'  the  primary  meaning  of  it  is  said  to  be 
/h  J?L  '  small  plants.'  2.  15=' sit  down/ 
Tsze-loo  had  risen,  ace.  to  the  rules  of  propriety, 
to  give  his  answer ;  see  the  Le-ke,  I.  Ft.  I.  iii. 
21 ;  aud  Conf.  tells  him  to  resume  his  scat.    3.  I 


give  here  the  paraphrase  of  the  £f  gB  on  the 

first  virtue  and  its  beclouding,  which  may  il- 
lustrate the  manner  in  which  the  whole  para- 
graph is  developed : — *In  all  matters,  there  is  a 
perfectly  right  and  unchangeable  principle, 
which  men  ought  carefully  to  study,  till  they 
have  thoroughly  examined  and  apprehended  it. 
Then  their  actions  will  be  without  error,  and 
their  virtue  may  be  perfected.  For  instance, 
loving  is  what  rules  in  benevolence.  It  is  cer- 
tainly a  beautiful  virtue,  but  if  you  only  set 
yourself  to  love  men,  and  do  not  care  to  study 
to  understand  the  principle  of  benevolence,  then 
your  mind  will  be  beclouded  by  that  loving,  and 
you  will  be  following  a  man  into  a  well  to  save 
him,  so  that  both  he  and  you  will  perish.  Will 
not  this  be  foolish  simplicity  ? ' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


187 


%mv\% 


o  


&  %  if  If  £  9- 


A  0> 

JE  ifij  ^C 


i>i 


#>pJS£ 


Chapter  IX.     1.  The  Master  said,  "My  children,  why  'do  you 
not  study  the  Book  of  Poetry  ? 

"  The  Odes  serve  to  stimulate  the  mind. 

"They  may  be  used  for  purposes  of  self-contemplation. 


2. 
3. 


4.  "  They  teach  the  art  of  sociability. 

5.  "  They  show  how  to  regulate  feelings  of  resentment. 

6.  "  From  them  you  learn  the  more  immediate  duty  of  serving 
one's  father,  and  the  remoter  one  of  serving  one's  prince. 

7.  "  From  them  we  become  largely  acquainted  with  the  names  of 
birds,  beasts,  and  plants." 

Chapter  X.  The  Master  said  to  Pih-yu,  "Do  you  give  your-? 
self  to  the  Chow-nan,  and  the  Chaou-nan.  The  man,  who  has 
not  studied  the  Chow-nan  and  the  Chaou-nan,  is  like  one  who  stands 
with  his  face  right  against  a  wall.     Is  he  not  so?" 


9.    Benefits  debited  from  studying  the 
Book  of  Poetry.  1.  yj^  -¥•;— see  V.  21 ;  VIIL 

3.  I  translate  gi  here  by  '  the  Book  of  Poetry,' 

because  the  lesson  is  supposed  to  have  been  given, 
alter  Conf.  had  completed  his  compilation  of 

the  Odes.    The  ^  is  thai,  as  in  XL  9. 1,  et  aL 

The  descriptions  in  them  of  good  and  evil  may 
have  this  effect.  3.  Their  awarding  of  praise  and 
blame  may  show  a  man  his  own  character.  4. 
Their  exhibitions  of  gravity  in  the  midst  of  plea- 
sure may  have  this  effect.   |g,  as  in  XV.  21.  5. 

Their  blending  of  pity  and  earnest  desire  with  re- 
proofs may  teach  how  to  regulate  our  resent- 
ments. 6.  ffi  ifc, '  grasses  and  trees,'=plants 
generally. 

10.    The  importance  of  studying  the  Chow- 
vaji  asd  Cuaou-eak.  Chow-nan  and  Chaou-nan 


are  the  titles  of  the  first  two  Books  in  the  Na- 
tional Songs,  or  first  part  of  the  She-king.  For 
the  meaning  of  the  titles,  see  the  She-king,  I.  i. 
and  I.  ii.  They  are  supposed  to  inculcate  im- 
portant lessons  about  personal  virtue  and  family- 
government.  Choo  He  explains  *i§£  by  ft, 
4 to  learn/  'to  study.'  It  denotes  the  entire 
mastery  of  the  studies,  db  (for  yir)  j§L  ^r 

~2~  is  imperative,  the  3p>  at  the  end,  not  being 

interrogative.   j£  jlj /|§f  |fij  Tr  i»  for  IF; 

®  Ht  j||f  fl5  JUL-  *»  sucn  a  •ituatioii, 
one  cannot  advance  a  step,  nor  see  any  thing. 
I  have  added — 'Is  he  not  so?'  to  bring  out  the 
force  of  the  i5|.— This  chapter  in  the  old  edi- 
tions, is  incorporated  with  the  preceding  one. 


us 


COH  KU  CIA*  ASAI£CTB. 


r:* 


f?  ft 


it  $ 


Chaptee  XI.  The  Master  said,  "  '  It  is  according  to  the  rnfcs  of 
propriety/  they  say. — *  It  is  according  to  the  rules  of  propriety/  ihef 
say.  Are  gems  and  silk  all  that  is  meant  by  propriety  ?  *  It  is  Muaqf 
they  say.  *  It  is  Music,9  they  say.  Are  bells  and  arums  all  that  if 
meant  by  Music?  " 

Chapter  XIL  The  Master  said,  "  He  who  puts  on  an  appe» 
ance  of  stern  firmness,  while  inwardly  he  is  weak,  is  like  one  of  the 
small,  mean,  people;— yea,  is  he  not  like  the  thief  who  breaks  through 
or  climbs  over,  a  wall?" 

Chapter  XIII.  The  Master  said,  u  Your  good  careful  people  «f 
the  villages  are  the  thieves  of  virtue." 

Chapter  XIV.    The  Master  said,  "To  tell,  as  we  go  along, 
we  have  heard  on  the  way,  is  to  cast  away  our  virtue." 


11.  IT  If  HOT  THB  EXTERNAL  APPURTENANCES 

which  ooNtrrruTK  propriety,  nor  the  sound  of 
instruments  which  constitutes  music.  jjjjB 

called  propriety.'  The  wordf  approach  the 
quotation  of  a  common  laying.    So  j&  ^-. 

Having  that  given  the  common  views  of  propri- 
ety and  music,  he  refutes  them  in  the  questions 
that  follow,  ^  and  js/S  being  preaent  to  the 
mind  as  the  expressions  of  respect  and  harmony. 

12.  Thb  meanness  op  presumption  akd 
pusillanimity  cohjoinei>.  *&  is  here  not  the 
countenance  merely,  but  the  wnole  outward  ap- 
pearance. yj\  ^  is  explained  by  jjjQ|  |j^, 
mud  the  latter  clause  shows  emphatically  o 
whom,  among  the  low,  mean,  people,  the  in- 
dividual spoken  of  is  like, — a  thief,  namely, 
who  it  in  constant  (tear  of  being  detected. 


18.     CONTENTMENT  WITH   VULGAR   WATS  AND 
VIEWS    INJURIOUS    TO    Y I  KITE.      See   tR*  SCStfi- 

ment  of  this  chapter  explained  aB^expassWay 
afencius,  VIL  Ft  II.  xxxvn.  7,  S.  Jg ,  low.  3* 
tone,  the  same  as  j^£.  See  the  dtet,  char,  J&. 

fl{,  as  inXTV.4«,  though  it  may  be  traasis**! 
here,  as  generally,  by  the  term  'thief.* 

14.    SWIFTNESS  TO  SPEAK  lECOMTATIBLE  W9SJ 

The  cultiv  %tion  op  virtue.  It  is  to  beEssaw* 
stood  that  what  has  been  heard  coataisB  ssssp 
good  lesson.  At  once  to  be  talking  of  it  wsaV 
out  revolving  it,  and  striving  to  practise  *, 
shows  an  indifference  to  our  own  improTSEsrst 

Jg  is  'the  way'  or  'road.'    jfeis  the  ssesJ 
way,  a  little  farther  oil— The  glossark*  m  Be 
An's  work  explains  fifi  ^  £|S  as  nMsjuEf 
'is  what  the  virtuous  do  not  do.'    But  tail » 
evidently  incomc^yC 


COITPUCIAK  ANALECTS. 


189 


jil  ^ 


^    w 


Chapter  XV.  1.  The  Master  said,  "There  are  those  mean 
matures !  How  impossible  it  is  along  with  them  to  serve  one's 
prince! 

f--  2.  "While  they  have  not  got  their  aims,  their  anxiety  is  how  to 
get  them.  When  they  have  got  them,  their  anxiety  is  lest  they 
should  lose  them. 

8.  "  When  they  are  anxious  lest  such  things  should  be  lost,  there 
is  nothing  to  which  they  will  not  proceed." 

Chapter  XVI.  1.  The  Master  said,  "Anciently,  men  had  three 
fellings,  which  now  perhaps  are  not  to  be  found. 

2.  "The  hiffh-mindediiess  of  antiquity  showed  itself  in  a  disre- 
gard of  small  things;  the  high-mindedness  of  the  present  day  shows 
itself  in  wild  license.  The  stern  dignity  of  antiquity  showed  itself 
in  grave  reserve ;  the  stern  dignity  of  the  present  day  shows  itself 
in  quarrelsome  perverseness.      The  stupidit — *    ~^     •<      * 


quarrelsome  perverseness, 
rff  in  straightforw 
itself  in  sheer  deceit 


stupidity  of, antiquity  showed 
itsetf  in  straightforwardness;  the  stupidity  of  the  present  day  shows 


15.   The  case  of  m ercenart  officers,  and 
bow  it  is  impossible  to  8erve  one's  prince 

UOMO  WITH   THEM.      1.    fjjl  ^t  Mj-  ^  ^ 

wep-felt  lamentation  on  the  unfitness  of  such 
pitsonstobe  associated  with.*  So,  the  fUgf- 
ftat  at  the  remaining  paragraphs  are  all  occupi- 
ed with  describing  the  mercenaries,  we  must 
fcn&fstand  Confucius*  object  as  being  to  con- 
faui  the  employment  of  such  creatures,  rather 
than  to  set  Jbrth  the  impossibility  of  serving 


with  them.    2.  The  ^  here,  and  in  p.  3,  are 
all  to  be  understood  of  place  and  emolument. 

16.  The  defects  of  former  times  become 
vices  in  the  time  of  Confucius.  1.  jfe, 
4  bodily  sickness,'  here  used  metaphorically  for 
•  errors,*  'vices.'  g£  ^|  ^  -£  (uh*),—*  per- 
haps there  is  the  absence  of  them.'  The  next 
par.  shows  that  worse  things  had  taken  their 
place.  2.  That  ||&  is  only  'a  disregard  of 
smaller  matters,*  or  conventionalisms,  appears 
from  its  opposition  to  S£,  which  has  a  more 

intense  signification  than  in  eh,  8. 


f£>*&gk 


190 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


^tjf  >h    Bo 

fir  pg-fsrR 

Chapter  XVII.    The  Master  said,  "  Fine  words  and  an  insinuat-  * 
ing  appearance  are  seldom  associated  with  virtue." 

Chapter  XVIII.  The  Master  said,  "I  hate  the  manner  in  which 
purple  takes  away  the  lustre  of  vermillion.  I  hate  the  way  in  which 
the  songs  of  Chlng  confound  the  music  of  the  Gna.  I  hate  those 
who  with  their  sharp  mouths  overthrow  kingdoms  and  families." 

Chapter  XIX.  1.  The  Master  said,  "I  would  prefer  not  speak- 
ing." 

2.  Tsze-kung  said,  "  If  you,  Master,  do  not  speak,  what  shall  we, 
your  disciples,  have  to  record?  " 

3.  The  Master  said,  "Does  Heaven  speak?  The  four  seasons 
pursue  their  courses,  and  all  things  are  continually  being  produced, 
but  does  Heaven  say  anything?" 

npo,'— see  on  DL  14.  Efl  5£  is  a  common  de- 
signation for  'a  state,'  the  13,  or  kingdom  of 
the  prince,  embracing  the  >fi£, '  families,*  of  his 


XV.  21,  also  with  an  intenser  meaning.  IS, 
*  an  angular  corner,'  which  cannot  be  impinged 
against  without  causing  pain.  It  is  used  for 
'purity,'  'modesty,'  but  the  meaning  here  ap- 
pears to  be  that  given  in  the  translation. 

17.  A  repetition  of  I.  8. 

18.  COMFUCIUS'  INDIGNATION  AT  THE  WAT  IK 
WHICH  THE  WRONG  OVERCAME  THE  RIGHT,     jjjj? 

i  X.  6,  2.    jfc  is  here  as  'a 


correct'  colour,  th 


though  it  is  not  among  the 
five  such  colours  mentioned  in  the  note  there. 

Sff  I  have  here  translated—' purple.'    'Black 

and  carnation  mixed,'  it  is  said, '  give  jR .'  '  The 

songs  or  sounds  of  Ch'ing,'— see  XV.  10.  'The 


great  officers. 

19.  The  actions  of  Confuckts 
sons  and  laws,  and  not  his  words  merely. 
Such  is  the  scope  of  this  ch.,  according  to  Omo 
He  and  his  school,  The  older  comm.  say  that 
it  is  a  caution  to  men  to  pay  attention  to  their 
conduct  rather  than  to  their  words.  This  inter-* 
pretation  is  far-fetched,  but,  on  the  other  hand,  ft 
is  not  easy  to  defend  Conf.  from  the  charge  of 
presumption  in  comparing  himself  to  Heaven. 

8 •  ^c  1»F  W  p&> tDoe8  HeaTeu  •**■*»'- 

better  than  '  what  does  Heaven  »«J  ?' 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


191 


B.  II  U.  &  £.  &  ft  tfc  IB 


Chapter  XX.  Joo  Pei  wished  to  see  Confucius,  but  Confucius 
declined,  on  the  ground  of  being  sick,  to  see  him.  When  the 
bearer  of  this  message  went  out  at  the  door,  he  took  his  harpsichord, 
and  sang  to  it,  in  order  that  Pei  might  hear  him. 

Chapter  XXI.  1.  Tsae  Go  asked  about  the  three  years'  mourn- 
ing far  parents,  saying  that  one  year  was  long  enough. 

2.  "If  the  superior  man,"  said  he,  "abstains  for  three  years 
from  the  observances  of  propriety,  those  observances  will  be  quite 
lost.  If  for  three  years  he  abstains  from  music,  music  will  be 
ruined. 

3.  "  Within  a  year,  the  old  grain  is  exhausted,  and  the  new 
grain  has  sprung  up,  and,  in  procuring  fire  by  friction,  we  go  through 
all  the  changes  of  wood  for  that  purpose.  After  a  complete  year, 
the  mourning  may  stop." 

4.  The  Master  said,  "If  you  were,  after  a  year,  to  eat  good  rice, 
and  wear  embroidered  clothes,  would  you  feel  at  ease?"  "  I  should," 
replied  Go. 

20.    How  Confucius  could  bb  rot  at  home, 

AXI>  TBT  GIVE  INTIMATION  TO  THE  VISITOR  OF  HIS 

presence.  Of  Joo  Pei  little  is  known.  He  was 
a  man  of  Loo,  and  had  at  one  time  been  in 
attendance  on  Confucius  to  receive  his  instruc- 
tions. There  must  have  been  some  reason — 
some  fault  in  him — why  Conf.  would  not  see 
him  on  the  occasion  in  the  text,  and  that  he 
might  understand  that  it  was  on  that  account, 
and  not  that  he  was  really  sick,  that  he  declined 
his  visit,  the  sage  acted  as  we  are  told.  But 
what  was  the  necessity  for  sending  a  false 
message  in  the  first  place?    In  the  notes  to  the 

<|£  |j£,  III.  1,  it  is  said  that  Joo  Pel's  fault 

was  in  trying  to  see  the  master  without  using 


the  services  of  an  internuncios. 

—see  XIV.  47.  I  translate  the  last  £  by  As**, 

but  it  refers  generally  to  the  preceding  sentence, 
and  might  be  left  untranslated. 

21.  The  period  of  three  years'  mourning 
for  parents  ;it  may  not  on  any  account  bb 
shortened;  the  reason  of  it.    1.  We  must 

understand  a  Q,  either  before  =  ,  or,  as  I 

prefer,  before  fijj,  which  is  readfe,  up.  1st  tone, 

the  same  as  ;&,  XIII.  10.  On  the  three  years' 
mourning,  see  the  Slst  book  of  the  Le-ke.  Nom- 
inally extending  to  three  years,  that  ncriod 


192 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£  «  *  *  *>  S  a 

t  #  t=  ft  t;  &  ft 

a  £  ^  £■&  *  & 


i 
it 

5.  The  Master  said,  "  If  you  can  feel  at  ease,  do  it     But  a 
perior  man,  during  the  whole  period  of  mourning,  does  not 
pleasant  food  which  he  may  eat,  nor  derive  pleasure  from 
which  he  may  hear.     He  also  does  not  feel  at  ease,  if  he  is  a 
ably  lodged.     Therefore  he  does  not  do  what  you  propose.    iJut 
you  feel  at  ease  and  may  do  it" 

6.  Tsae  Go  then  went  out,  and  the  Master  said,  "This** 
Yu's  want  of  virtue.  It  is  not  till  a  child  is  three  years  old  « 
it  is  allowed  to  leave  the  arms  of  its  parents.  And  the  three  J* 
mourning  is  universally  observed  throughout  the  empire.  Did  1 
enjoy  the  three  years1  affection  for  his  parents?" 


comprehended  properly  but  25  months,  jandat 
most  27  months.  2.  ||fc  J#  \  $»  ^f  O 
— Tsie-go  find*  here  a  reason  for  his  view  in 
the  necessity  of  'human  affairs.'    8.    ]|£  j£j[ 

5^  B$  f?  <T»— He  flndi  here  a  ire*ion  for 

hit  Tie w  in  'the  seasons  of  heaven.'  jj^g  means 
either  •  a  piece  of  metal/— *  speculum,— with 
which  to  take  fire  from  the  sun,  or  'a  piece  of 
wood,'  with  which  to  get  Are  by  friction  or  'bor- 
ing* (||l).  It  has  here  the  latter  meaning. 
Certain  woods  were  assigned  to  the  several  sea- 
sons, to  be  employed  for  this  purpose,  the  elm 
and  willow,  for  instance  to  spring,  the  date  and 
almond  trees  to  summer,  &c.    f||  j$$3$C  /C 


~£%>  'In  boring  with  the  jJ§|tog*A 
we  have  changed  from  wood  to  wood 
the  ones  appropriate  to  the  four 
Coarse  food  and  coarse  clothing  wi 
ate,  though  in  varying  degree  to  all  the 
of  mourning.    Tsze-go  is  strangely  fr 
to   the   home-put  argument   of  the 
iffij  is  to  be  understood  here  as  £$<£_ 
'the  most  excellent  grain/    The  ^  •»* 

monstrative.    7.^f*  £>jfi4l2jj&***t 

to  all  that  has  gone  before,  and  forms  asflrtj 
apodotis.  Conf.  added,  it  is  amid,  ^^J 
in  this  par.  that  they  might  be  reported  *1P 
Go,  lest  he  should  'feel  at  ease'  togo sad*' 
he  said  he  could.  Still  the  reason  whs*  • 
Master  finds  for  the  statute-period  of  m 
for  parents  must  be  pronounced  puerile. 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


193 


f^Afflfffl 
M  A  ^T  &flLJ^H  E-o-W  * 

±zu    *#*.   mm 


Chapter  XXII.  The  Master  said,  "  Hard  te  the  case  of  him, 
who  will  stuff  himself  with  food  the  whole  day,  without  applying  his 
mind  to  anything  good!  Are  there  not  gamesters  and  chessplayers? 
To  be  one  of  these  would  still  be  better  than  doing  nothing  at  all." 

Chapter  XXIII.  Tsze-loo  said,  "  Does  the  superior  man  esteem 
valour?"  The  Master  said,  "The  superior  man  holds  righteous- 
ness to  be  of  highest  importance,  A  man  in  a  superior  situation, 
having  valour  without  righteousness,  will  be  guilty  of  insubordina* 
lion ;  one  of  the  lower  people,  having  valour  without  righteousness, 
will  commit  robbery," 

Chapter  XXIV,  1,  Tsze-kung  said,  "Has  the  superior  man 
his  hatreds  also?"  The  Master  said,  "He  has  his  hatreds.  He 
hates  those  who  proclaim  the  evil  of  others,  He  hates  the  man  who* 
being  in  a  low  station,  slanders  his  superiors.     He  hates  those  who 

23.    The  iwpblbm  oasb  or  oluttobt  abd 

sE  are  two  things.  To  the  former  I  am  unable 
to  giro  a  name;  but  see  some  account  of  it  quoted 
fctte^Ugfefo*  ^is 'to  play  at  chess,' 
of  wmch  there  are  two  kinds,— the  ^  ^ 
played  with  861  pieces  and  referred  to  the 
anperor  Taou  as  its  inventor,  and  the  |fe  10^ 

or  ivory  chess,  played  with  82  pieces,  and 
having  a  great  analogy  to  the  European  game. 
Iu  invention  is  attributed  to  the  first  emperor 
of  the  Chow  dynasty,  though  some  date  its 
origin  a  few  hundred  years  later.    "&  ^, — 

£  refers  to  jjfr  ^p.  jgf,  for  Jg£,  as  in  XL 


28.  YaIAMJR  TO  B£  VALUBD  OKLT  IK  8UBOR* 
DINATftOK  TO  RJOHTBOUSNESS  J  ITS   CONSBQI/BXCBB 

apart  rnon  that.    The  first  two  38*  -¥•  are 

to  he  understood  of  the  man  superior  in  virtue. 
The  third  brings  in  tfee  idea  of  rank,  witb 

/J>   K^  as  its  correlate. 

24.  Characters  disliked  bt  Cowrpcius 
and  Tszb-kono.  1.  Ts?e-kung  is  understood 
to  have  intended  Confucius  himself  by  *  the  su- 
perior man.'  }Jfc  is  here  in  the  sense  of  'class.' 

~F#&=  ~fiik£  A'  <menof  low  ■t»tlon.i 

is  to  oppose  IE  to  4^,  'hatreds,*  to  'loves.' 
2.  Iling  Ping  takes  -7-  jf"  *•  the  nomiuatiro 

4  Digitized  by  LiOOgle 


194 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


%K 


B>ff  M  M  W .  _ 


o  JJS* 


have  valour  merely,  and  are  unobservant  of  propriety.  He  hates 
those  who  are  forward  and  determined,  and,  at  tlie  same  time,  of  con- 
tracted understanding." 

2.  The  Master  tlien  inquired,  "  Tsze,  have  you  also  your  hatreds  T 
Tsze-kung  replied,  u  I  hate  those  who  pry  out  matters,  and  ascribe 
the  knowledge  to  their  wisdom.  I  hate  those  who  are  only  not 
modest,  and  think  that  they  are  valorous.  I  hate  those  who  make 
known  secrets,  and  think  that  they  are  straightforward." 

Chapter  XXV.  The  Master  said,  "Of  all  people,  girls  and 
servants  are  the  most  difficult  to  behave  to.  If  you  are  familiar 
with  them,  they  lose  their  humility.  If  you  maintain  a  reserve  to- 
wards them,  they  are  discontented." 

Chapter  XXV I.  The  Master  said,  "When  a  man  at  forty  is  the 
object  of  dislike,  he  will  always  continue  what  he  is." 

to  £J, — *  Ho  went  on  to  say,  J,  Tsze,  also,*  &c. 
The  modern  comm.,  however,  more  correctly, 
understand  -Jp,  *the  Master/  as  num.  to  Pf, 

and  supply  another  FT  before  rajr, 

23.    Tub  difficulty  how  to  treat  concu- 
bines and  servants.    "i^  3r~  doe*  not  mean 


women  generally,  but  girls,  i.  c,  concubines.    A\ 
K^t  in  the  sams  way,  is  here  boys,  t.  e.,  servants. 
, '  to  nourish,'  *  to  kecp,'=to  behave  to.  The 


force  of  pf|,  'only,1  is  as  indicated  in  to* 

translation. 

2(>.  The  difficulty  of  improvement  in 
advanced  year*.  According  to  Chinese  views, 
at  forty  a  man  is  at  his  best  in  every  way.  Al- 
ter dgi.  we  must  understand  ^P  l$r  Hpi— 
1  the  object  of  dislike  to  the  superior  man.'  J£ 

$c= J£  ^  ^  lit'  'ne  wiU  end  *n  this; 

— Youth  is  doubtless  the  seasou  for  improve- 
ment,  but  the  sentiment  of  the  chapter  is  fctf 
broadly  stated. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS 


195 


BOOK  XVIII.  WEI  TSZE. 


suna  ^  s  *=  #.«  b 
#  a*  sua  ».*££«.. 

«r3ixft    =  n  t 


Chapter  I.  1.  The  viscount  of  Wei  withdrew  /rom  the  court 
The  viscount  of  Ke  became  a  slave  to  Cliow.  Pe-kan  remonstrated 
with  him  and  died. 

2.  Confucius  said,  "  The  Yin  dynasty  possessed  these  three  men 
of  virtue.'1 

Chapter  II.  Hwuy  of  Lew-hea  being  chief  criminal  judge,  was 
thrice  dismissed  from  his  office.  Some  one  said  to  him,  "  is  it  not  yet 
time  for  you,  Sir,  to  leave  this? "  He  replied,  "Serving  men  in  an 
upright  way,  where  shall  I  go  to,  and  not  experience  such  a  thrice- 
repeated  dismissal?  If  I  choose  to  serve  men  in  a  crooked  way, 
what  necessity  is  there  for  me  to  leave  the  country  of  my  parents?" 

^|.  The  chief  of  Wei  was  an  elder  brother 
(by  a  concubine)  of  the  tyrant  Chow,  the  last 
eraperorof  the  Yin  dynasty, B.C.  1163-1122.  The 
chief  of  Ke,  and  Pe-kan,  were  both  uncles  of  the*, 
tyrant.  The  first,  seeing  that  remonstrances 
availed  nothing,  withdrew  from  court,  wishing 
to  preserve  the  sacrifices  of  their  family,  amid 
the  ruin  which  he  saw  was  impending.  The 
second  was  thrown  into  prison,  and,  to  escape 
death,  feigned  madness.  He  was  used  by  Chow 
as  a  buffoon.  Pe-kan,  persisting  in  his  remon- 
strances, was  put  barbarously  to  death,  the 
tyrant  having  his  heart  torn  out,  that  he  might 

see,  he  said,  a  sage's  heart.  The  jj£  in  ^J* 
jj£  is  explained  by  lt£  4?£,  'his  place.'  It» 
reference  may  also  be  to  jfej",  the  tyrant  him* 

-*  °*%Z1fr"-*%Z*£*- 

7,  3,  et  al. 
2.    How  Hwuy  of  Lew-hea,  thottqh  often 

DISMISSED    FROM   OFFICE,    STILL   CLAVR    TO   HI8 

country.    Lew-hea  Hwuy, — see  XV.  13.   The- 


Heading  op  this  Book.— ^£  «^»  4jfr  -f* 

^, 'The  viscount  of  Wei— No.  XVHL'    This 

Book,  consisting  of  only  eleven  chapters,  treats 
of  various  individuals  famous  in  Chinese  his- 
tory, as  eminent  for  the  way  in  which  they  dis- 
charged their  duties  to  their  sovereign,  or  for 
their  retirement  from  public  service.  It  com- 
menorates  also  some  of  the  worthies  of  Confu- 
cius* days,  who  lived  in  retirement  rather  than 
be  in  office  in  so  degenerate  times.  The  object 
of  the  whole  is  to  illustrate  and  vindicate  the 
course  of  Confucius  himself. 

1.    The  viscounts  of  Wei  and  Kb,  and  Pe- 
kan  :— THREE  WORTHIES  OF  THE   YlN   DYNASTY. 

1.  Wei-tsze  and  Ke-tsze  are  continually  repeat- 
ed by  Chinese,  as  if  they  were  proper  names. 
But  Wei  and  Ke  were  the  names  of  two  small 
states,  presided  over  by  chiefs  of  the  Tsze,  or 
fourth,  degree  of  nobility,  called  viscounts,  for 
want  of  a  more  exact  term.  They  both  appear 
to  have  been  within  the  limits  of  the  present 

Shan-  se,  Wei  being  referred  to  the  district  of  JB& 


office  of  the  ±  ffi  U  toegg^gftBgl, 


196 


CONFttClAH  ASALECTS. 


ffg« 


&fe 


CnAFrtR  III.  The  duke  King  ofTs'e,  wVA  reference  to  the  maimer 
in  which  he  should  treat  Confucius,  said.  "  I  cannot  treat  him  as 
I  would  the  chief  of  the  Ke  family.  I  will  treat  him  in  a  maimer 
between  that  accorded  to  the  chief  of  the  Ke,  and  that  given  to 
the  chief  of  the  M&ng  family.*  He  also  said,  "I  am  old ;  1  cannot 
use  his  doctrines."    Confucius  took  his  departure. 

Celaftto  IV.  The  people  of  Ts'e  sent  to  Loo  a  present  of  female 
musicians,  which  Ke  Hwan  received,  and  for  three  days  no  court 
was  held.     Confucius  took  his  departure. 

Chapteb  V.  L  The  madman  of  Ts'oo,  TseS-yu,  passed  by  Con- 
fucius, singing  and  saying,  "  Oh  Futfo !    Oh  Fukg  !    How  is  your 

le,  XXXIV.  3.  He  was  under  Hie  ft} 
minister  of  Crime,  bat  with  many  suboi 
magistrates  under  him.    ^?,  up.  8d  tone,  as  in 

V.  19,  XI.  6.  We  may  translate  j£|,  *waa 
cHsmdtoed  from  office,*  or  ♦retired  from  nfflce.' 
ke±ff^  A  .—Some  remarks  akin  to  that  in 
the  text  ase  ascribed  to  tttruy's  wife.  It  is 
observed  by  the  commentator  Hoo  (  jB%  that 
there  ought  to  be  another  paragraph,  giving 
Conf.  judgment  upon  Hwvy's  conduct*  but  it 
has  been  lost. 

8.     HOW   C0K*tfCIUS  LKFT  Ts'B,  WHUK  THB 
3>VKU  COULD  HOT  APPRECIATE  AMD  EMPLOY  HIW* 

It  was  in  the  year  B.  C.  516,  that  Confucius 
went  to  Ts*e.  The  remarks  about  how  he  Should 
be  treated,  «\c,  are  to  be  understood  as  having 
taken  place  in  consultation  between  the  duke 
and  his  ministers,  and  being  afterwards  report- 
ed to  the  sage.  The  M&ng  family  (see  XL  6) 
was  in  the  tune  of  Conf.,  much  weaker  than 

tfceKe.  The  chief  of  it  Wat  only  the  ~~J\  fys 
lowest  noble  of  Loo,  while  the  Re  was  the 
highest.  Yet  for  the  duke  of  Ts*e  to  treat 
^onf.  better  than  the  duke  of  Loo  treated  the 


.  crime,  \ 


chief  of  the  Ming  fiunfly,  was  l 

the  sage.    We  must  suppose  that  Conf.  left 

T*<e,  because  of  the  duke's  concluding  remark* 

4.  HOW  CoWFUCTPS  OAVB  UP  OV*M&AX.  SBB*> 

Vica  ru  Loo,  In  the  14th  year  of  the  Arias 
Ting,  Conf.  reached  the  highest  point  of  his 
official  service.  He  was  minister  of  crin* 
also,  ace*  to  the  general  < 
He  effected  inafewmonttmai 
tkm  of  the  State,  and  the  neighbouring  countries 
began  to  fear  that  under  his  adminjatrattoay 
Loo  would  overtop  and  subdue  them  aft.  To 
prevent  this,  the  duke  of  Ts<e  sent  a  pgesenj  to 
Loo  of  line  horses  and  of  80  highly  aooompaHf 
ed  beauties.  The  duke  of  Loo  was  induced!  la 
receive  these  by  the  advice  of  the  head  of  the 

Ke  family,  Ke  Sae  ( fijf )»  or  Ke  Hwan.    Tht 

sage  was  forgotten  j  government  was  neglected 

Confucius,  indignant  and  sorrowful,  withdrew 

from  office,  and  for  a  time,  from  the  < 

too.  g«taXVILl,l.  |$A' 

of  Ts'e  is  to  be  understood  of  the  duke  and  hii 

ministers. 

5.  Confucius  awd  tub  madman  or  TsV>o,  who 

BLAME8  HIS  NOT  RETIRING  FROM  TBS  WORLD.     1. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQI 


CONFDCIAK  ANALECTS. 


19? 


#  spa  it  ft  4:  tut 

**■*.»  JOT,     tUKSS 


lirtue  degenerated!  As  to  the  part>  reproof  is  useless;  but  the  fu- 
ture maybe  provided  against.  Give  up  your  vain  pursuit  Give  up 
jpur  vam  pursuit.  Peril  awaits  those  who  now  engage  in  affairs  of 
government." 

2.  Confucius  alighted  and  wished  to  converse  with  him,  but 
Tsee-yu  hastened  away,  so  that  he  could  not  talk  with  him* 

Chapter  VI.  1.  Ch'ang^taeu  and  Ki&neih  were  at  work  in  the 
field  together,  when  Confucius  passed  by  them,  and  sent  Tsze-loo 
to  enquire  for  the  ford. 

2.  Ch'ang-tseu  said,  "Who  is  he  that  holds  the  reins  in  the  car- 
riage there  V*  Tsze-loo  told  him,  u  It  is  K<ung  K'ew."  "  Is  it  not 
K*ung  K*ewof  Loo?"  asked  he.  "Yes,"  was  the  reply,  to  which 
the  other  rejoined,  "He  knows  the  ford." 

3.  TszeXoo  Am  enquired  of  KeS-neih,  who  said  to  him,  "Who 
we  you,  Sir?"    He  answered,  "I  am  Chung  Yew*"    "Are  you 

6.  COKVUCIUSAKDnrBVWOXBOUmi^CB'ARO* 
TSBU  AHD  KfiB-ItBlH;  WHY  HB  WOULD  HOT  WITH- 

vtULW  fbom  thb  wnsu.Bw  i.  Thesunaines  and 
names  of  these  worthies  are  not  known.  It  is 
supposed  that  they  belonged  to  Ts*oo,  like  the 
hero  of  the  last  chapter,  and  that  the  interview 
with  them  occurred  about  the  sane  tine.  That 
deaignataane  in  the  text  ate  descriptiTe  of  their 

character  anda^  the  long  Hester  (^H  jfefr  [fc 

jfij^tU  *%mA  ithe  Irm  Bedwe  <2S  3k 

tJtttJfiiMy   WwUdndei  field  labour  l» 

K      ^    f    T  Digitized  by  CfOOgh 


«fcss*thayeac,B.C 


<g|  £g>  a  entire  of  IVoo,  who  feigned  him- 
sstfssad,  t#  escape  being  importuned  to  engage 
^sahttcssrrfc^  There  ate  sewui  nottoeeof 
i  at  he    It  nust  hare  been 

m  .  .>  C.  48*,  that  the  Incident  in 
**  text  occurred.  By  the./***,  his  satirjuer  or 
whiter  intended  Confucius;  see  IX.  &  The 
4Ms  jjjj  hi  the  song  are  simply  expletives, 

^saiesfortheToicetohelpcmttherhythin.  j^|> 
•«o  overtake'  generally  with  reference  to  the 
fettt,  but  hare  it  has  reference  to  the  future. 
fc  the  diet,  with  reference  to  this  passage,  it  i* 


198 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 

fir  Hfcfl£4lL 

fit  7:  Si 

".TO* 


?g  #  0< 

toot  the  disciple  of  K'ung  K'ew  of  Loo  ?  "  asked  the  other.  "  I  am," 
replied  he,  and  then  KeS-neih  said  to  him,  "  Disorder,  like  a  swell- 
ing flood,  spreads  over  the  whole  empire,  and  who  is  he  that  will 
change  it  for  you?  Than  follow  one  .who  merely  withdraws 
from  this  one  and  that  one,  had  you  not  better  follow  those  who 
have  withdrawn  from  the  world  altogether?"  With  this  he  fell  to 
covering  up  the  seed,  and  proceeded  with  his  work,  without  stopping. 
4.  Tsze-loo  went  and  reported  their  remarks,  when  his  master 
observed  with  a  sigh,  "It  is  impossible  to  associate  with  birds  and 
beasts,  as  if  they  were  the  same  with  us.  If  I  associate  not  with 
these  people, — with  mankind, — with  whom  shall  I  associate  ?  Jlf  right 
principles  prevailed  through  the  empire,  there  would  be  no  use  for 
me  to  change  its  state." 

4  an  implement  for  drawing  the  soil  over  the 
seed/  It  may  have  been  a  hoe,  or  a  rake.  4.  ^ 

Ithm-jR'*"-'  f?#gifA£ti 


here  denoted  by  4tt  cannot  be  determined.    2. 

tjfi^g*,  'he  who  holds  the  carriage,'==3£ 
|pw^  as  in  the  transL  It  is  supposed 
it  was  the  remarkable  appearance  of  Con- 
fucius, which  elicited  the  inquiry.    In  4^  4ffl 

pfr,  tot8*' As*'  ».  «n  he,  going  about  every 
where,  and  seeking  to  be  employed,  ought  to 
know  the  ford.    8.  $j|  »J@  %  ^  "]^,— the 

speaker  here  probably  pointed  to  the  surging 
waters  before  them,  for  the  ford  to  cross  which 
the  travellers  were  asking.  Translating  liter- 
ally, we  should    say — 'swelling  and  surging, 

such  is  all  the  empire.'    ^^Lfljj, — ffijHtJT' 


SfijL  fTp  gt&  fli,='K  I  am  not  to  associate 
with  the  class  of  these  men,  u  en  with  mankind, 
with  whom  am  I  to  associate?  I  cannot  asso- 
ciate with  birds  and  beasts.*  j£  yfj  BQ  M}, 

~^||,  it  is  said,  f^^)fl,-'there  would 
be  no  use.'  Literally,  (I  should  not  have  for 
whom  to  change  the  state  of  the  empire.' — The 
use  of  5^"?* m  this  paragraph  is  remarkable. 
It  must  mean '  his  Master '  and  not  'the  Master.' 
The  compiler  of  this  chapter  can  hardly  hare 
been  a  disciple  of  the  sage. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


199 


B 


m 

H 


m  #  h  » w  £.«  If. 

m  j*  ^  £  fak#» 

it  Z>&,Ma1fc  i^if  A> 

Chapter  VII.  1.  Tsze-loo,  following  the  Master,  happened  to 
fall  behind,  when  he  met  an  old  man,  carrying,  across  his  shoulder 
on  a  staff,  a  basket  for  wreeds.  Tsze-loo  said  to  him,  "Have  you  seen 
my  master,  Sir!"  The  old  man  replied,  "Your  four  limbs  are 
unaccustomed  to  toil;  you  cannot  distinguish  the  five  kinds  of 
grain : — who  is  your  master?"'  With  this,  he  planted  his  staff  in 
the  ground,  and  proceeded  to  weed. 

2.  Tsze-loo  joined  his  hands  across  his  breast,  and  stood  before 
him. 

3.  The  old  man  kept  Tsze-loo  to  pass  the  night  in  his  house, 
killed  a  fowl,  prepared  millet,  and  feasted  him.  He  also  introduced 
to  him  his  two  sons. 

4.  Next  day,  Tsze-loo  went  on  his  way,  and  reported  Ids  advert 
tare.  The  Master  said,  "  He  is  a  recluse,'  and  sent  Tsze-loo  back  to 
see  him  again,  but,  wrhen  he  got  to  the  place,  the  old  man  was  gone. 


7.      TflZB-LOo'S  RESCONTRE  WITH  AN  OLD  MAN, 
A  HECLIJSK :    HIS   VINDICATION    OF    HIS  MASTER'S 

course.  This  incident  in  this  chapter  was  pro- 
bably nearly  contemporaneous  with  those  which 
occupy  the  two  previous  ones.  Some  say  that 
the  old  man  belonged  to  She,  which  was  a  part 

of  T.-00.  1.  %,  a*  In  XI.  22,  ^  jffi  %. 
a£  K  is  used  for  'an  old  man,'  as  early  as 
in  the  Yih-king,  dia.  J*jjj.  How  the  phrase 
comes  to  have  that  signification,  I  have  not  dis- 
covered. ~%%L  is  simply  called  by  Choo  He — jfy 
35,  'a  bamboo  basket.'    The  ^  ^  defines 

it  as  in  the  translation'— ^  gj  ^.  jjlj  g®, 

*  the  four  bodies,*  i.  «>.,  the  arms  and  legs,  the 
four  limbs  of  the  body.     *  The  five  grains '  are 


and  jE£,  'rice,  millet,  pan- 

nicled  millet,  wheat,  and  pulse.'  But  they  aro 
sometimes  otherwise  enumerated.  We  have 
also  *  the  six  kinds,' '  the  eight  kinds,'  *  the  nine 
kinds,'  and  perhaps  other  classifications.  2. 
Tsze-loo,  standing  with  his  arms  across  has 
breast,  indicated  his  respect,  and  won  upon  the 

old  man.  3,  ^t,  Uze,  low.  8d  tone,  '  enter* 
tained,' '  feasted.'  The  diet,  defines  it  with  this 
meaning,  J£j[  j£  Qjl  ^,  'to  give  food  to  - 
people.'  5.  Tsze-loo  is  to  be  understood  as  here 
speaking  the  sentiments  of  the  Master,  and  vin- 
dicating his  course.  4j|r  %f]  £  'fin  refers 
to  the  manner  in  which  the  old  man  had  intro- 
duced his  sons  to  him  the  evening  before,  and 
to  all  the  orderly  intercourse  between  old  and 


Digitized  by 


200 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


<M  m  %  M  MAy>ft  %  M>Z 

^  WiKfr  MM&  ft  W  £  % 
Sfe§  IP  4>  *  £  £  ft  tt  "»* 


5»  Tsze-loo  then  said  to  ffti  fwnih/,  "  Not  to  take  office  is  not 
righteous.  If  the  relations  between  old  and  young  may  not  be 
neglected,  how  is  it  that  he  sets  aside  the  duties  that  should  be 
observed  between  sovereign  and  minister?  Wishing  to  maintain  his 
personal  purity,  he  allows  that  great  relation  to  come  to  confusion. 
A  superior  man  takes  office,  and  performs  the  righteous  duties 
belonging  to  it.  As  to  the  failure  of  right  principles  to  make 
progress,  he  is  aware  of  that," 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  The  men  who  have  retired  to  privacy  from 
the  world  have  been  Pih-e,  Shuh-ts'e,  Yu-chung,  E-yih,  Choo-chang, 
Hwuy  of  Lew-hea,  and  Shaou-lSen. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  Refusing  to  surrender  their  wills,  or  to 
submit  to  any  taint  in  their  persons; — such,  I  think,  were  Pih-e 
and  Shuh-ts'e. 


young,  which  he  had  probably  seen  in  the  fam- 
iljr.  <pf  ^  &  £,—iL  refers  to  the  old 
man,  but  there  it  an  indefiniteneat  about  the 
Chinese  construction,  which  does  not  make  it  so 
personal  as  our  *  he.'    So  Confucius  is  intended 

by  j^  Jr,  though  that  phrase  may  be  taken 

in  its  general  acceptation.  'He  is  aware  of 
that;'— but  will  not  therefore  shrink  from  his 
righteous  service. 

S.    Confucius'  judgment  of  former  wor- 
thies WHO  HAD  KEPT  FROM  TH»  WORLD.     HlS 

owv  guidimo  principle,  1.  i&  Jj^, — 're- 
tired people.'  ^^  is  used  here  just  as  we  some- 
times rue  people,  without  reference  to  the  rank 
of  the  individuals  spoken  of.    The  4m  *tjfr 

quotes,  upon  the  phrase,  from  the 


to  the  following  effect :— *^  here  is  not  the 

:jft  of  seclusion,  but  is  characteristic  of  men  of 
large  souls,  who  cannot  be  measured  by  ordiu- 
ary  rules.  They  may  display  their  character  bv 
retiring  from  the  world.  They  may  display  it 
also  in  the  manner  of  their  discharge  of  office* 
The  phrase  is  guarded  in  this  way,  I  suppose, 
because  of  its  application  to  Hwny  of  Lew-bra, 
who  did  not  obstinately  withdraw  from  the 
world.    Pih-e,  and  Shuh-ts'e,— see  V.  Stt.    Ya- 

chung  should  probably  be  Woo  (ij|.)-chimg. 
He  was  the  brother  of  T'ae-pih,  called  Chun£* 
yung  (4lh  jS),  and  is  mentioned  in  the  note 
on  VIII.  1.  He  retired  with  T«ae-pih  among 
the  barbarous  tribes,  then  occupying  the  coun- 
try of  Woo,  and  succeeded  to  t$e  chieftaincy  of 
them  on  his  brother's  death.  *  E-yih  and 
Choo-chang/  says  Ckoo  He,  'are  not  found  in 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONTUCIAU  ANALECT8! 


201 


it  3Em*  iw#  *  w  #» 

^  w  *  jw  *  &  E  ft 

^ :  **8»B£.i* 


*.WH||0   .&.**fc 


3.  "It  may  be  said  of  Hwuy  of  Lew-hea,  and  of  Shaou-leen,  that 
i\ey  surrendered  their  wills,  and  submitted  to  taint  in  their  persons, 
ut  their  words  corresponded  with  reason,  and  their  actions  were  such 
»  men  are  anxious  to  see.   This  is  all  that  is  to  be  remarked  iq.  themf 

4.  "  It  may  be  said  of  Yu-chung  and  E-yih,  that,  while  they  hid 
hemselves  in  their  seclusion,  they  gave  a  license  to  their  words,  but, 
a  their  persons,  they  succeeded  in  preserving  thei*  purity,  and,  iq. 
beir  retirement,  they  acted  according  to  the  exigency  of  the  times, 

5.  "I  am  different  from  all  these.  I  have  no  course  for  which  I 
mi  predetermined,  and  no  course  against  which  I  am  predetermined. " 

Chapter  IX.  1.  The  grand  music-master,  Che,  went  to  Ts'e. 
Lan,  tlie  master  of  the  band  at  the  second  iqeal,  went  to  Ts'oo.  I^eaou, 
he  band-master  at  the  third  meal,  went  to  Ts'fte,  Keu§h,  the  band? 
naster  at  the  fourth  meal,  went  to  Tain. 

2.  Fang-shub,  the  drum-master,  withdrew  to  the  north  of  the 
iver,     Woo,  ths  master  of  the  hand-drium,  withdrew  to  the  Han, 

that  in  this  respect  jthey  were  inferior  to  Hwuy 
and  Shaou-lSen,  who  ST  fjj>  Afo.    $£>*— *** 

note  on  IX.  29.  5.  Confucius*  openness  to  act 
according  to  circumstances  is  to  be  understood 
as  being  always  in  subordination  to  right  an<| 
propriety. 

9.  Tub  dispersion  of  the  musicians  or  loo. 
The  dispersion  here  narrated  is  supposed  to 
have  taken  place  in  the  time  of  duke  Gae. 
When  once  Confucius  had  rectified  the  music 
of  Loo  (IX.  14),  the  musicians  would  no  longer 
be  assisting  in  the  prostitution  of  their  art,  and 
so,  as  the  disorganization  and  decay  proceeded, 
the  chief  among  them  withdrew  to  other  coun- 
tries, or  from  society  altogether.   1.  —^-=H[^r 

as  opposed  to  ^^,  p.  5,  'grand,'  and  'assistant.* 
'The  music-master,  Che,*— see  VIII.  15.  2. 
The  princes  of  tChina,  it  would  appear,  had 
music  at  their  meals,  and  a  separate  band  per- 
formed at  each  meal,  or,  possibly,  the  baud 
might  be  the  same,  but  under  the  superinten- 
dence of  a  separate  officer  at  each  meal.  The 
emperor  had  four  meals  a  day,  and  the  princes 
of  States  only  three,  but  it  was  the  prerogative 
of  the  duke  of  t#oo  to  iwe  the  ceremonies  of 


betty  gad  chuen  (jjg£  j^).'  fee,  however, 
he  ^fe  jj^,  in  he.     From  a  passage  in  the 

*-ke,  XXI.  i.  14,  it  appears  that  Shaou- 
een  belonged  to  one  of  the  barbarous  tribes 
n  the  east,  but  was  well  acquainted  wfch,  and 
^servant  of,  the  rules  of  Propriety,  particular- 

J  those  relating  to  mourning.    8.  The  j|j|,  at 

he  beginning  of  tfcis  paragraph  and  the  next, 

ire  very  perplexing.    As  there  is  neither  gS 

wr  Q  at  the  beginning  of  par.  $,  the  ^  £J 
*  p.  2  must  evidently  be  carried  on  to  the  ens! 
rf  the  chapter.    Commentators  do  not  seem  to 

tare  felt  the  difficulty,  and  understand  jfS  to 
t*  in  the  84  pers.— '  He,  I  e.,  the  master,  said,' 
k.   I  have  made  the  best  of  it  I  could.  4{fa= 

1&M'2l3k1$>ithe  order  and  ,eriea  °f 

righteousness  and  principles.'  A = ^  fQ  £ 

J&J&,  'the  thoughts  and  solicitudes  of  men's 
wU.'  4.  *  Living  in  retirement,  they  gave  a 
«eme  to  their  words,'— this  is  intended  to  show 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


202 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


I.#  H  %  ¥  % 

,tto  %  m  m  %  n 
&»  a  m  $k  n» 

$  &  #  ±  * 
&A.IW  H 


$  19  1$ 


3 


0,AA 


Yang,  the  assistant  music-master,  and  Seang,  master  of  the  musical 
stone,  withdrew  to  an  island  in  the  sea." 

Chapter  X.  The  duke  of  Chow  addressed  his  son,  the  duke  of 
Loo,  saying,  "The  virtuous  prince  does  not  neglect  his  relations. 
He  does  not  cause  the  great  ministers  to  repine  at  his  not  employ- 
ing them.  Without  some  great  cause,  he  does  not  dismiss  from 
their  offices  the  members  of  old  families.  He  does  not  seek  in  one 
man  talents  for  every  employment." 

Chapter  XL  To  Chow  belonged  the  eight  officers,  Pih-ta, 
Pih-kwoh,  Chung-tuh,  Chung-hwuh,  Shuh-yay,  Shuh-hea,  Ke-suy, 
and  Ke-kwa. 


the  imperial  household.  Nothing  is  said  here  of 
the  bandmaster  at  the  first  meal,  perhaps  be- 
cause he  did  not  leave  Loo,  or  nothing  may 
have  been  known  of  him.    3.  'The  River'  is  of 

course '  the  Yellow  River.1  According  to  the  UFjJ 

^  ffi  &Sb  "*  LVI> the  c*v™*ion*  A  t$ 

JST»  A.  Ife  %SI»  are  to  be  taken  as  meaning 
simply, — *  lived  on  the  banks  of  the  Ho,  the 
linn.'  The  interpr.  in  the  translation  is  after 
Choo  He,  who  follows  the  glossarist  Hing  Ping. 
The  ancient  emperors  hud  their  capitals  mostly 
north  and  east  of  *  the  River,  hence,  the  coun- 
try north  of  it  was  called  fpf  jjj,  and  to  the 

south  of  it  was  called  ^J*  ffy.  I  don't  see, 
however,  the  applicability  of  this,  to  the 
Han,  which  is  a  tributary  of  the  Yang-tsze, 
flowing  through  Hoo-pih.  5.  It  was  from  Seang 

that  Confucius  learned  to  play  on  the  >o£. 

10.  Instructions  op  Ciiow-ki;no  to  his  son 
about  government}  a  ge.nerot  8  considera- 
TION OJT  OTUfcHS  TO  MS  CHEJU&11ED.    ffl  ^r^ 


see  VI.  5.  The  facts  of  the  case  seem  to  be  thai 
the  duke  of  Chow  was  himself  appointed  to  the 
principality  of  Loo,  but  being  detained  at  court 

by  his  duties  to  the  young  emperor  fifr ,  he  sent 

his  son  4fl  -EH*,  here  called  'the  duke  of  Loo,' 

to  that  state  as  his  representative.  }S~  -7* 
contains  here  the  ideas  both  of  rank  and  virtue. 
fc|F  is  read  in  the  up.  2d  tone,  with  the  same 
meaning  as  j^«  Choo  He,  indeed,  seems  to 
think  that  ^Jj  should  be  in  the  text,  but  we 
have  jft|f  in  Ho  An,  who  gives  K*ung  Gan-kwJTs 
interpretation:-^  $  ^,  ^ j£j[^ \ 

He  does  not  substitute  the  relatives  of  other  men 
in  the  room  of  his  own  relatives.'  J^[f — here=s 

J^J, '  to  use,' ' to  employ.'  5^  ffjj'-"80*  XUL 


25. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


208 


11.*  TUB  FIHJ1TPULWES8  OP  THE  EARLY   TIME 
OF  TflB  CllOW  DYNA8TY  IN  ABLE  OFFICBU8.    The 

eight  individuals  mentioned  here  tare  said  to 
have  been  brothers,  four  pairs  of  twins  by  the 
same  mother.    This  is  intimated  in  their  names, 

the  two  first  being  <lfr,  or  primi,  the  next  pair 
4&1,  or  secundi,  the  third  ^J,  or  ttrtu,  and  the 


last  two  3$.  One  mother,  bearing  twins  four 
times  in  succession,  and  all  proving  distinguish- 
ed men,  showed  the  vigour  of  the  early  days 
of  the  dynasty  in  all  that  was  good. — It  is  dis- 
puted to  what  reign  these  brothers  belonged,  nor 

is  their  surname  ascertained,  ijg,  jg",  3^, 
"ZT  ZT1  8eem  to  ^  nonorary  designations. 


BOOK  XIX.  TSZE-CHANG. 


M      ..  .... 

Chaptee  I.  Tsze-chang  said,  "The  scholar,  trained  for  public 
duty,  seeing  threatening  danger,  is  prepared  to  sacrifice  his  life. 
When  the  opportunity  of  gain  is  presented  to  him,  he  thinks  of  right- 
eousness. In  sacrificing,  his  thoughts  are  reverential.  In  mourn- 
ing, his  thoughts  are  about  the  grief  which  he  should  feel  Such  a 
man  commands  our  approbation  indeed." 

Chapter  II.  Tsze-chang  said,  "When  a  man  holds  fast  virtue, 
but  without  seeking  to  enlarge  it,  and  believes  right  principles,  but 
without  firm  sincerity,  what  account  can  be  made  of  his  existence 
or  non-existence  ?" 

Confucius  about  the  scholar-officer.  ^  ^gj, 
— the  danger  is  to  be  understood  as  threatening 
his  country.  Hing  Ping,  indeed,  confines  the 
danger  to  the  person  of  the  sovereign,  for 
whom  the  officer  will  gladly  sacrifice  his  life. 
^^i8thesameas^^^inl.7.   Q 

is  not  to  be  explained  by  jj^,  as  in  jjjj  J^. 

The  combination  fl^  3fe  has  occurred  before, 

and=-rfjj  ^  in  L  H.   It  greatly  intensifies 

the  preceding  p| . 

2.     TSZE-CHANG  ON  NARROW-MINDEDKM8  AND 

A  HE8ITATIMO  FAITH.  Hing  Ping  interprets 
this  chapter  in  the  following  way :— '  If  a  man 
grasp  hold  of  hi*  virtue,  and  is  not  widened  and 

°      *  Digitized  by  VJvJVJVLv 


HjCADIHQ  OF  THIS  BOOK.— ^p  §||  jjjj  "J* 

-Jr,  'Tsze-chang— No.  XIX.'  Confucius  does 
not  appear  personally  in  this  Book  at  all.  Choo 
He  says :— 'This  Book  records  the  words  of  the 
disciples,  Tsze-hea  being  the  most  frequent 
speaker,  and  Tsze-kung  next  to  him.  For  in 
the  Confucian  school,  after. Yen  Yuen  there 
was  no  one  of  such  discriminating  understand- 
ing as  Tsze-kung,  and,  after  Tsang  Sin  no  one 
of  such  firm  sincerity  as  Tsze-hea.'  The  dis- 
ciples deliver  their  sentiments  very  much  after 
the  manner  of  their  master,  and  yet  we  can 
discern  a  falling  off  from  him. 

1.     TSZB-CHANO'S  OPIKIOK  OF  THE  CHIEF  AT- 
TRIBUTES   OF    THE    TBUE    SCHOLAE.       ^£, — See 

ote  on  XII.  20,  1.     Tsie-chang  there  asks 


m 


doftfrtJclAH  ANAlfirtHi 


C&apteb  lit*  The  disciplds  of  Tsze-hea  asked  Tsze-chang  about 
the  principles  of  intercourse.  Tsze-chanar  asked,  "  What  does  Tse^ 
liea  say  on  the  subject  ?  "  They  replied,  "Tsze-hea  says : — 4  Associate 
toith  those  who  can  advantage  you.  Put  away  from  you  those  who 
cannot  do  so*  Tsze*chang  observed,  " This  is  different  firom  what  I 
have  learned.  The  superior  man  honours  the  talented  and  virtuous, 
and  bears  with  all.  He  praises  the  good,  and  pities  the  inconn 
petent.  Am  I  possessed  of  great  talents  and  Virtue? — vr*ho  is  ther« 
amon£  men  whom  I  will  not  bear  with?  Am  I  devoid  of  talents 
tod  virtue?— *men  will  put  me  awdy  from  them.  What  have  we 
to  do  with  the  putting  away  of  others?" 

Chapter  IV;  Tsze-hea  said,  "  liven  in  inferior  studies  and  em- 
ployments there  Is  something  worth  being  looked  at>  but  if  it  be 

Enlarged  by  it,  although  he  may  believe  good 
principles,  he  cannot  be  sincere  and  generous.' 
But  it  is  better  to  take  the  clauses  as  coordin- 
ate* and  not  dependent  on  each  other.  With£J£ 

^£l  ^f*  ?/*  we  xnAy  compare  XV.  28,  which 

Suggests  the  taking  H/|  actively.    The  two  last 

clauses  are  perplexing.  Choo  He,  after  Gan- 
kwo  apparently,  makes  them  equivalent  to — *  is 

of  no  consideration  in  the  world'  ( Jjfi  ~F  >K 

3.  The  different  opinions  op  Tsze-hea  ahd 
tsze-chang  on  the  principles  which  should 
regulate  our  Intercourse  with  others.    On 

the  disciples  of  Tsze-hea,  see  the  ^^  £§£, 
in  be.  It  is  strange  to  me  that  they  should  begin 
their  answer  to  Tsze-chang  with  the  designa- 
tion -5^-  W,  instead  of  saying  ^  -^p,  'our 


Master/   ^g,-**  V.  10.    In  pf^^  pf 

^,  the  llf  U  takes  differently  by  the  old  hv 

terpreters  and  the  new.  Hing  Ping  expounds; 
— 'If  the  man  be  worthy,  fit  for  you  to  have  in- 
tercourse with,  then  have  it,  but  if  he  be  not 
worthy,'  Ac  On  the  other  hand,  we  find:— 
'If  the  man  will  advantage  you,  he  is  a  fit  per- 

Son(&pT^);  then  maintain  intercourse 

with  him/ Ac.  This  seems  to  be  merely  carrying: 
out  Confucius'  rule,  L  8,  3.  Choo  He,  however, 
approves  of  Tsze^chang*s  censure  of  it,  while 
he  thinks  also  that  Tsze-chang's  own  viewii 
defective. — Paou  Heen  says. — '  Our  intercourse 
with  friends  should  be  according  to  Tsse-kea'i 
rule ;  general  intercourse  according  to  Tsse- 
changV 

4.    Tszs-hea's  optkioh  of  the  inapplicabi- 
lity   OP    SMALL  PURSUITS  TO    GREAT   OBJECT* 

Gardening,  husbandry,  divining,  and  the  beat3 
ing  art*  are  all  mentioned  by  Choo  He  as  1* 


GOKftiCtAtt  ANAtfiCtsr 


203 


■m  »■*     ^  h  3;  # 

ft  H  &c 


^ 


-3*^ 


¥  0,  JB.  0, 


iT  3n     Si 


A3* 


VX 


attempted  to  c&try  them  out  to  what  is  remote,  there  is  a  danger 
of  their  proving  inapplicable.  Therefore,  the  superior  man  does  not 
practise  them." 

Chapter  V»  Tsze»hea  said^  "He,  who  from  day  to  day  recognizes 
tvhat  he  has  not  yet,  and  from  month  to  month  does  not  forget 
what  he  has  attained  to,  may  be  said  indeed  to  love  to  learn." 

Chapter  VL  Tsze*hea  said,  "There  are  learning  extensively, 
and  having  a  firm  and  sincere  aim ;  inquiring  with  earnestness,  and 
reflecting  with  self-application :— virtue  is  in  such  a  course*" 

Chapter  VII.  IszeJiea  said,  "  Mechanics  have  their  shops  to 
dwell  in,  in  order  to  accomplish  their  works.  The  superior  man 
learns,  in  order  to  reach  to  tne  utmost  of  his  principles. 

%tance«  of  the  jfs  5£f  'imall  Ways,'  here  in- 
tended, haying  their  own  truth  in  them,  but  not 
available  for  higher  purposes,  or  what  is  be- 
yond tnemselres.    Xfr  is  imperative  and  em- 

phatic,=;JJ|r  jjjft  'push  them  to  an  extreme.' 

What  is  intended  by  jfijL  is  the  far-reaching 
"object  of  the  Kam-tsze,  'to  cultirate  himself 
and  regulate  others.'  itfe,  lower  3d  tone,  ex- 
plained in  the  diet,  by  38,  'water  impeded.' — 

Ho  An  makes  the  yj\  ^[  to  be  S.  $&, 

'ttrange  principles.' 

5.  The  indications  of  a  bull  lots  or 
Uabkwo:— by  Tsza-HXA. 

6.  HOW  LEARNING  SHOULD  BB  PURSUED  TO 

%um  to  vutxuxt— «r  Tazb-hba*    K(UBg  Gaa- 


kw8  explains  Jj|?  as  if  it  *ere§&  'to  remenv 

W  H*  &  Z  If'  <wha*  »  ^V*^ 
about  are  things  essential  to  one's  self;  what 
are  thought  about  are  the  important  personal 
duties.'    Probably  it  is  so,  but  all  this  cannot 

be  put  in  a  translation.  On  jKr  JH ,  oomp* 
VH.28,4*    >(r^^:Fb,-comp.Vn.l5; 

xm.  is.  "*^ 

7.    Liarnikg  is  the  student's  workshop: 
-byTWhea.    ||ishereJ^J#g5|jf 

jSc  S^  ykU  (a  place  for  the  display  and  sale 
ofgoodV  A  certain  quarter  was  assigned  an- 
ciently in  Chinese  towns  and  cities  for 


mocha* 


206 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


SKE#W _ 

IS     ffcJW'f     ^T     A 

m.   i»j  k  & 


Chapter  VIII.  Tsze-hea  said,  "The  mean  man  is  sure  to  gloss 
his  faults." 

Chapter  IX.  Tsze-hea  said,  "The  superior  man  undergoes 
three  changes.  Looked  at  from  a  distance,  he  appears  stern ;  when 
approached,  he  is  mild;  when  he  is  heard  to  speak,  his  languages 
firm  and  decided." 

Chapter  X.  Tsze-hea  said,  "  The  superior  man,  having  obtained 
their  confidence,  may  then  impose  labours  on  his  people.  If  he 
have  not  gained  their  confidence,  they  will  think  that  he  is  oppress- 
ing them.  Having  obtained  the  confidence  of  his  prince,  he  may 
then  remonstrate  with  him.  If  he  have  not  gained  his  confidence, 
the  prince  will  think  that  he  is  vilifying  him.' 

Chapter  XI.  Tsze-hea  said,  "When  a  person  does  not  transgress 
the  boundary-line  in  the  great  virtues,  he  may  pass  and  repass  it  in 
the  small  virtues." 


nica,  and  all  of  one  art  were  required  to  hare 
their  shops  together.  A  son  must  follow  his 
father's  profession,  and,  seeing  nothing  but  the 
exercise  of  that  around  him,  it  was  supposed 
that  he  would  not  be  led  to  think  of  anything 
else,  and  become  very  proficient  in  it. " 

8.  Glossing  his  faults  thi  proof  of  the 
mean  man:— by  Tsze-hea.  Lit.,  'The  faults 
of  the  mean  man,  must  gloss,'  u  c,  he  is  sure  to 

gloss.    ^j£,  in  this  sense,  a  verb,  low.  3d  tone. 

9.  Changing  appearances  of  the  superior 
man  to  others: — by  Tsze-hea.  Tsze-hea 
probably  intended  Confucius  by  the  Keun-taze, 
but  there  is  a  general  applicability  in  his  lan- 
guage and  sentiments.  g^^>  jfP  *£»— ***•> 
'look  towards  him,' '  approach  him.'-— The  des- 

*ption  is  about  equivalent  to  our  'fortitor  in 
uaviter  in  modo* 


10.  The  importance  of  enjoying  conftdesc* 
to  the  right  serying  of  superiors  axd  ot- 
dering  of  inferiors  :— b y  Tsze-hea.  Choo  He 
gires  to  4g  here  the  double  meaning  of '  being 
sincere,'  and  '  being  believed  in.*  The  last  U 
the  proper  force  of  the  term,  but  it  requires  the 
possession  of  the  former  quality. 

11.  The  great  virtues  demand  the  chtkt 
attention,  and  the  small  owes  mat  bs  sojir- 
what  violated:— by  Tsze-hea.  The  §eirti- 
ment  here  is  very  questionable.  A  different 
turn  however,  is  given  to  the  chapter  in  the 
older  interpreters.  Hing  Ping,  expanding  K*uBf 
Gan-kwo'  says : — *  Men  of  great  virtue  nerer  go 
beyond  the  boundary-line;  it  is  enough  f<* 
those  who  are  virtuous  in  a  less  degree  to  k#I[ 
near  to  it,  going  beyond  and  coining  bact 
We  adopt  the  more  natural  interpretation  <*  | 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


207 


m:fmm^mm,A 

Chapter  XII.  1.  Tsze-yew  said,  "The  disciples  and  followers  of 
Tszc-hea,  in  sprinkling  and  sweeping  the  grouna,  in  answering  and 
replying,  in  advancing  and  receding,  are  sufficiently  accomplished. 
But  these  are  only  the  branches  of  learning,  and  they  are  left  ignorant 
of  what  is  essential — How  can  they  be  acknowledged  as  sufficiently 
taught?" 

2.  Tsze-hea  heard  of  the  remark  and  said,  "Alas!  Yen  Yew  is 
wrong.  According  to  the  way  of  the  superior  man  in  teaching,  what 
departments  are  there  which  he  considers  of  prime  importance,  and 
delivers?  what  are  there  which  he  considers  of  secondary  impor- 
tance, and  allows  himself  to  be  idle  about?  But  as  in  the  case  of 
plants,  which  are  assorted  according  to  their  classes,  so  lie  deals  with 
his  disciples.  How  can  the  way  of  a  superior  man  be  such  as  to  make 
fools  of  any  of  them  ?  Is  it  not  the  sage  alone,  who  can  unite  in  one 
the  beginning  and  the  consummation  of  learning?" 

what  was  external.  flS},  read  shoe  and  $ha,  up. 
lit  tone, '  to  sprinkle  the  ground  before  sweep- 
ing.' Rf|,  upper  3d  tone, '  to  answer  a  calL' 
|jjfik  '  to  answer  a  question.'  ^|jjj=*  hut,'  as  in 
VII.  33.  ^fc  £  5s  expanded  by  the  paraphrasts 

— ^^£<£  fijy  $> <ftB  t0  tnat  in  which  the 

root  (or,  what  is  essential)  is.'  This  is,  no  doubt, 
tlie  meaning,  but  the  phrase  itself  is  abrupt  and 

enigmatical  ^^fa-fa^fait  pf 
j££,  in  opposition  to  the  j|lj  pT  ^  above.  2. 
The  general  scope  of  Tsze-hea's  reply  is  suffi- 
ciently plain,  but  the  old  interpreters  and  new 
differ  in  explaining  the  several  sentences.  Af- 
ter dwelling  long  on  it,  I  have  agreed  generally 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Choo  He.  B3,  'a  piece  of  wood,  in  a  doorway, 
obstructing  ingress  and  egress;'  then,  'an  in- 
closure '  generally,  *  a  railing,'  whatever  limits 
and  confines. 

12.    Tsze-hea's  defence  or  his  own  gra- 
duated METHOD  OF  TEACHING  : — AGAINST  TSZE- 

tew.  1.  /j\  -3^  is  to  be  taken  in  apposition 
with  TO    K,  being  merely,  as  we  have  found 

it  previously,  an  affectionate  method  of  speak- 
ing of  the  disciples.  The  sprinkling,  &c.,  are  the 
things  which  boys  were  supposed  anciently  to 
be  taught,  the  rudiments  of  learning,  from  which 
they  advanced  to  all  that  is  inculcated  in  the 

7SJ  €&•  But  **  Tsze-hea's  pupils  were  not 
boys,  but  men,  we  should  understand,  I  suppose, 
tliese  specifications  as  but  a  contemptuous  re- 
ference to  his  instructions,  as  embracing  merely 


908 


COOTUCIAB  AHAL8CT& 


^r*  "5nT  Eg  tifflT.  B5I  Hi?  |i£l  iiaii  rftt 

•I   o^v  iJBfci  s^+    ai    Hw   laBa  tad    |IIJ 


Chapter  XIIL  Tsze-hea  said,  "The  officer,  having  discharged 
all  his  duties,  should  devote  his  leisure  to  learning.  The  student* 
having  completed  his  learning,  should  apply  himself  to  be  an  officer.* 

Chapter  XIV,  Tsze-hea  said,  "  Mourning,  having  been  carried 
to  the  utmost  degree  of  grief,  should  stop  with  that." 

Chapter  XV.  Tsze-hea  said,  "My  Mend  Chang  can  do  things 
which  are  hard  to  be  done,  but  yet  he  is  not  perfectly  virtuous." 

Chapter  XVI,  The  philosopher  Ts&ng  said,  "  How  imposing  ia 
the  manner  of  Chang!  It  is  difficult  along  with  him  to  practise 
virtue. 

Chapter  XVII.  The  philosopher  Tsfcng  said,  "I  heard  this 
from  our  Master :— 4  Men  may  not  have  shown  wh*t  is  in  them  to 
the  full  extent,  and  yet  they  will  be  found  to  do  so,  on  occasion  of 
mourning  for  their  parents,' 

heal*  or  life  by  exoesfSre  grief  and  ahstiaesce, 

15.  Tseb-tbw's  oranos  op  Tsxa-caAxe,  AM 

MnCDItfO  TOO  MUCH  HIGH  Til  I  WO  a. 

16.  Thb  philosopher  Tsaho's  opdctoh  OP 

TSZB-CHAHO,  AM  TOO  HIGH -PATCHED  PO*  PB»fD<- 

•hip.    ^  ^  It  explained  in  the  diet,  by  ^ 

-fe,  T^  «{fe,  'exnbepant,'  'correct.'  It  ia  to 
be  understood  of  Chang's  manner  and  appear* 
ance,  keeping  himself  aloof  from  other  mea  it 
his  high-pitched  coarse. 

17.  HOW   GRIEP  FOE  THE  LOSS  OP  PAH*** 
BRIHOS  OUT  TBS  REAL  BATUBX  OP  HYB :  BTTsU* 

Sin.  £j  is  said  to  indicate  the  ideas  both  of 
g  Q,  'one's  self,'  and  g  jffi  'natural^ 
[=}  ^,  'to  put  one's  self  o«t  to  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


with  the  new  school,  and  followed  Choo  He  in 
the  translation.    |gi  is  explained  in  the  diet 

by  |gf  'classes.' 

13.  Thb  oppicbb  ajtd  thb  stupiht  should 
attend  each  to  his  pbopbe  woeb  iv  the  pibst 

PISTAJICB  t— BT  TSJ5B-TBW.      ^^=^^'fjt 

in  I.  6. — The  saying  needs  to  be  much  supple- 
mented in  translating,  in  order  to  bring  oat  its 
meaning. 

14.  The  trappings  op  moubkthg  mat  be 
dispensed  with: — bt  Tszb-tbw.  The  senti- 
ment here  is  perhaps  the  same  as  that  of  Confu- 
dns  in  III.  4,  but  the  sage  guards  and  explains 
his  utterance.— K*ung  Gan  kwO,  following  an 

expression  in  the  jSt  jfc,  makes  the  meaning 

to  be  that  the  mourner  may  not  endanger  his 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


209 


Ha 

li 

mm. 


Hff 


Chapter  XVIII.  The  philosopher  TsXng  said,  "I  have  heard 
his  from  our  Master : — 'The  filial  piety  of  MSng  Chwang,  in  other 
iatters,  was  what  other  men  are  competent  to,  but,  as  seen  in  his 
ot  changing  the  ministers  of  his  father,  nor  his  father's  mode  ot 
overnment,  it  is  difficult  to  be  attained  to.' " 

Chapter  XIX.  The  chief  of  the  M&ng  family  having  appointed 
rang  Foo  to  be  chief  criminal  judge,  the  latter  consulted  the  philo- 
opher  TsXng.  TsXng  said,  "The  rulers  have  failed  in  their  duties, 
nd  the  people  consequently  been  disorganized,  for  a  long  time. 
VTien  you  have  found  out  the  truth  of  any  accusation,  be  grieved 
)r  ana  pity  them,  and  do  not  feel  joy  at  your  own  ability? 

Chapter  XX.  Tsze-kung  said,  "  Chow's  wickedness  was  not  so 
;reat  as  that  name  implies.    Therefore,  the  superior  man  hates  to 

i  we  should  say— 'to  come  out  fully/  i  e^  in 
oe's  proper  nature  and  character.  On  the  con- 
traction of  $\  -(J^,  ^  H  5p>,  comp.  XH. 

£,  it,  so  that  |j|  and  ^  -^  are  like  two 

bjectires,  both  goTerned  by  |Jfl. 

18.  The  filial  fiety  of  Mang  Chwang  : — 
t  Tsavg  Sis.     Chwang  was  the  honorary 

pilhet  of  Suh  (Jj£),  the  head  of  the  Mang 
aaily,  not  long  anterior  to  Confucius.  His 
"her,  ace  to  Choo  He,  had  been  a  man  of 
Mat  merit,  nor  was  he  inferior  to  him,  but  his 
irtae  especially  appeared  in  what  the  text 
mentions. — Ho  An  gives  the  comment  of  Ma 
fang,  that  though  there  were  bad  men  among 
a*  father's  ministers,  and  defects  in  his  govern- 
ment, yet  Chwang  made  no  change  in  the  one  or 
he  other,  daring  the  three  yean  of  mourning, 


and  that  it  was  this  which  constituted  his  ex* 
cellence. 

19.  HOW  A  CRIMINAL  JUDGE  SHOULD  CHERISH 
COMPA8810Y  IN  HIS  ADMINISTRATION  OF  JUS- 
TIC  k  : — bt  Ts ano  Sin.  Seven  disciples  of  Tsftng 
Sin  are  more  particularly  mentioned,  one  of 

them  being  this  Yang  Foo.  Sfr  is  to  be  under- 
stood of  the  moral  state  of  the  people,  and  not, 
physically,  of  their  being  scattered  from  their 
dwellings.  4jfe  has  occurred  before  in  the  sense 
of—1  the  truth/  which  it  has  here. 

20.  The  danger  of  a  bad  name  : — bt  Tsze- 
kung.  ^fP^j^^, 'so  very  bad  as  this;' 
— the  this  (4jL)  is  understood  by  Hing  Ping  at 

referring  to  the  epithet— j^f,  which  cannot  be 
called  honorary  in  this  instance.  According  to 
the  laws  for  such  terms,  it  means— ^  j2Jif| 

o 


210 


COHFUCIAM  ANALBCT8. 


M  B>  P«1 


dwell  in  a  low-lying  situation,  where  all  the  evil  of  the  world  will 
flow  in  upon  hiin." 

Chapter  XXL  Tsze-kung  said,  "The  faults  of  the  superior  mtf 
are  like  the  eclipses  of  the  sun  and  moon.  He  has  his  faulty  aod 
all  men  see  them ;  he  changes  again,  and  all  men  look  up  to  him." 

Chapter  XXI  I.  1.  Kung-sun  Ch'aou  of  Wei  asked  Tsse-kai* 
saying,  u From  whom  did  Chung-ne  get  his  learning?" 

2.  Tsze-kung  replied,  "The  doctrines  of  Win  and  Woo  have  not 
yet  fallen  to  the  earth.  They  are  to  be  found  among  men.  Men 
of  talents  and  virtue  remember  the  greater  principles  of  them,  and 
others,  not  possessing  such  talents  and  virtue,  remember  the  smaller. 
Thus,  all  possess  the  doctrines  of  Win  and  Woo.  Where  could  onr 
Master  go  that  he  should  not  have  an  opportunity  of  learning  them? 
And  yet  what  necessity  was  there  for  his  having  a  regular  master? 

moon  being  here  •poken  of  together,  11*  % 
must  be  confined  to  'eclipses,'  hut  the  tans  w 
alto  applied  to  the  ordinary  waning  of  the  R** 


9B6,  'cruel  and  unmerciful,  injurious  to  right- 
eousness.'    If  the  1&  does  not  in  this  way 

refer  to  the  name,  the  remark  would  teem  to 
have    occurred  in  a  conversation   about  the 

wickedness  of  Chow.    "^  ^£  is  a  low-lying 

situation,  to  which  the  streams  flow  and  waters 
drain,  representing  here  a  bad  reputation,  which 
gets  the  credit  of  every  vice. 

21.      Tim  SCPBRIOH   M  \R    DOBS   NOT  CORCEAL 
BIS  ERRORS,  If  OR  PRRStST  IN   THRU :— BT   TSEB- 

xuno.  Such  is  the  lesson  of  this  chapter,  as 
expanded  in  the  JJ  §||.    The  1110  and  the 


22.  Cowrocirs*  soubgrs  op  keowtjetoi  v*1 

THB   RECOLLRCTIORS    AMD    TRADITinRS  Of  Till 

principles  or  War  ard  Woo  :— bt  TiH*w6,i 
1.  Of  the  queaUooer  here  we  have  no  other  fl* 
morial  His  surname  indicates  thathe  vai  s  de- 
scendant of  some  of  the  dukes  of  Wei  Obssn* 
how  he  calls  Confucius  by  his  designs***  ■ 


flp  R  or 'NesaeaaoW   (There  \ 
brother,  a  cojwuJbme'i  son,  who  was  catted  \ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS 


211 


¥„i£  Z.  % 


HTFI 


^  £  m  **^  Mo^  $ 

£  ft,  A.  ^  ■•& 'F  #  IS 


Chapter  XXIII.  1.  Shuh-sun  Woo-shuh  observed  to  the  great 
officers  in  the  court,  saying,  "Tsze-kung  is  superior  to  Chung-ne." 

2.  Tsze-fuh  King-pih  reported  the  observation  to  Tsze-kung, 
who  said,  "  Let  me  use  the  comparison  of  a  house  and  its  encompass- 
mg  wall.  My  wall  only  reaches  to  the  shoulders.  One  may  peep 
over  it,  and  see  whatever  is  valuable  in  the  apartments. 

3.  "The  wall  of  my  master  is  several  fathoms  high.  If  one  do 
not  find  the  door  and  enter  by  it,  he  cannot  Bee  the  ancestral  tem- 
ple with  its  beauties,  nor  all  the  officers  in  their  rich  array. 

4.  u  But  I  may  assume  that  they  are  few  who  find  the  door. 
Was  not  the  observation  of  the  chief  only  what  might  have  been 
expected?" 


fk>  #/&##'  'HowdidChung.ne 
learn?1  but  the  'howWfrom  whom?'  The 
expression  below,  however, — jfc  «^-  jjS  yK 

*&,  expounded  as  in  the  translation,  might 

ftggeat,  from  '  what  quarter  V  rather  than  'from 
■what  person  ? '  as  the  proper  rendering.  The 
last  clause  is  taken  by  modern  commentators,  as 
asserting  Conf.  connate  knowledge,  but  Gan- 
kwo  finds  in  it  only  a  repetition  of  the  statement 
that  the  sage  found  teachers  everywhere. 

23.  Tsze-kung  repudiates  bkiko  thought 
sumebiob  to  confvoirs,  and,  by  thecompari- 
sok  ov  a  housb  and  wall,  shows  how  ordi- 

SAJiT  PSOPLS  COULD  MOT  UNDX&8TAND  TUB  MaS- 

tbb.  1.  "jj£  was  the  hon.  epithet  of  Chow  Kew 
(Mi  {h),  one  of  the  chiefs  of  the  Shuh-sun 
family.  From  a  mention  of  bim  in  the  Jb£  pS* 


8f  [HI  1m'  ™*  'T  conclude  that  he  was 
given  to  envy  and  detraction.  f?»—  nsed  hare 
as  in  XI.  15,  1.    2.  Tsze-fuhKing-pih,— see 

XIV.88.  #  £  ^f  %%-*$£  to  to  *• 
taken  generally  for  a  house  or  building,  and  not 
in  its  now  common  acceptation  of  *  a  nulace.' 
It  is  a  poor  house,  as  representing  the  disciple, 
and  a  ducal  mansion  as  representing  his  master. 
Many  commen.  make  the  wall  to  be  the  sole  ob- 
ject in  the  comparison,  and  ^£?  9S—'$C  /£ 
It  is  better,  with  the  ^ISc,  to  take  both 


le  house  and  the  wall  as  members  of  the  comp., 
andgl{g«lgl^JJg.    Thewaliisnota 

part  of  the  house,  but  one  inclosing  it.  8.  {0J 
means  7  cubits.  I  have  translated  it — *  fathoms.9 
4.  Tlieffc  -¥-  here  refers  to  Woo-ahuh, 


212 


COHTUCIAN  ASALECTS. 


Chapter  XXIV.  Shuh-sun  Woo-shuh  having  spoken  revffingty 
of  Chung-ne,  Tsze-kung  said,  "  It  is  of  no  use  doing  so.  Chungw 
cannot  be  reviled.  The  talents  and  virtue  of  other  men  are  hillocta 
and  mounds,  which  may  be  stept  over.  Chung-ne  is  the  sun  tf 
moon,  which  it  is  not  possible  to  step  over.  Although  a  man  m*J 
wish  to  cut  himself  off  from  the  sage,  what  harm  can  he  do  to  the 
sun  or  moon  ?  He  only  shows  that  he  does  not  know  his  own 
capacity." 

Chapter  XXV.  1.  Tsze-k^n,  addressing  Tsze-kung,  said,  "Yo 
are  too  modest.     How  can  Chung-ne  be  said  to  be  superior  to  you? 

2.  Tsze-kung  said  to  him,  "  For  one  word  a  man  is  often  deeme 
to  be  wise,  and  for  one  word  he  is  often  deemed  to  be  foolish.  W< 
ought  to  be  careful  indeed  in  what  we  say. 

3.  "  Our  Master  cannot  be  attained  to,  just  in  the  same  way  « 
the  heavens  cannot  be  gone  up  to  by  the  steps  of  a  stair. 


24.    Confucius  is  like  the  svn  on  hook, 

HIGH  ABOVE  TUB  REACH  OF    DEPRECIATION  : — BT 

Tsze-kung.  ^J^j[^  is  explained  by  Choo 
He  (and  the  gloss  of  Hing  Ping  is  the  same)  as 
■=|J|  ^  ^  jtfc>  'it  is  of  no  use  to  do  this.' 

fc'A  £  If  *Hfc  A  ••••»'- 

derstood,  ace.  to  the  JM  "tf",  as  embracing  all 

other  sages.  |r|  »5>— I  bare  supplied  'from 
the  iage,y  after  most  modern  paraphrasts.  Hing 
Ping,  however,  supplies  'from  (he  tun  and  moon.* 


The  meaning  comes  to  the  same.  Choo  H< 
says  that  ^  here  is  the  same  with  jft,  'oofr- 

Hing  Ping  takes  it  **«j£,  *  just.'  Thins** 
ing  of  the  char,  is  not  giren  in  the  dicGooifT, 
but  it  is  necessary  here;  see  supplement  to  Hug 

Ping's  j£,fcfcc 

25.  Confucius  can  no  more  be  equally 
than  the  heavbn8  can  be  climbed:— *j 
Tszb-kcxg.  We  find  it  difficult  to  concern  * 
the  sage's  disciples  speaking  to  one  another.  * 
Tsze-k'in  does  here  to  Tsze-kung,  and  H»l 

*      Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


21S 


4.  "  Were  our  Master  in  the  position  of  the  prince  of  a  State  or  the 
chief  of  a  Family,  we  should  find  verified  the  description  which  has 
been  given  of  a  sage's  rule : — he  would  plant  the  people,  and  forthwith 
they  would  be  established ;  he  would  lead  them  on,  and  forthwith 
they  would  follow  him;  he  would  make  them  happy,  and  forthwith 
multitudes  would  resort  to  his  dominions;  he  would  stimulate  them, 
and  forthwith  they  would  be  harmonious.  While  he  lived,  he 
would  be  glorious.  When  he  died,  he  would  be  bitterly  lamented. 
How  is  it  possible  for  him  to  be  attained  to?" 


ling  say*  that  this  was  not  the  disciple  Tsze- 
ktn,  but  another  man  of  the  same  surname  and 
designation.  But  this  is  inadmissible,  especially 
as  we  find  the  same  parties,  in  L 10,  talking  about 

the  chamfer  of  their  mwter.    1.  ^%fc 

'you  are  doing  the  modest.'    2.  j^  -7*  has 

here  its  lightest  meaning.    The'ljjl  *||*  makes 

it»4tt  7^y  'a  student,'  but  'a  man,'  as  in  the 


transit  is  quite  as  much  as  it  denotes.  Comp.  its 
wei»I.8,*al    8.£^.£fift$£ 

5§*  must  be  understood  hypothetical^,  because 
he  nerer  was  in  the  position  here  assigned  to 
him.    Jjjf ,— as  in  X.  10,  1.    j||[  is  for  &£,  as 

in  I.  5.    >$£,— as  in  XVL  1,  11.  ^  £>—•* 

in  XV. 82,  3.  £,  them,  'the  people'  being  si- 
ways  understood. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


2U 


OOOTUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


BOOK  XX.  YAOU  YUE. 


Jf  m  E  %  -k 8>Ji± m>-\- 

MM>m  M  ¥  tK  3£  It 


Chapter  I.  1.  Yaou  said,  "  Oh !  you,  Shun,  the  Heaven-deter- 
mined order  of  succession  now  rests  in  your  person.  Sincerely  hold 
fast  the  Due  Mean.  If  there  shall  be  distress  and  want  within  the 
four  seas,  your  Heavenly  revenue  will  come  to  a  perpetual  end." 

2.  Shun  also  used  the  same  language  in  giving  cnarge  to  Yu. 

3.  'Pang  said,  "  I,  the  child  Le,  presume  to  use  a  dark-coloured 
victim,  and  presume  to  announce  to  Thee,  0  most  great  and  sovereign 
God,  that  the  sinner  I  dare  not  pardon,  and  thy  ministers,  O  God, 
I  do  not  keep  in  obscurity.  The  examination  of  them  is  by  thy 
mind,  0  God.  If,  in  my  person,  I  commit  offences,  they  are  not 
to  beattributed  to  you,  the  people  of  the  myriad  regions.  If  you  in 
the  myriad  regions  commit  offences,  these  offences  must  rest  on 
my  person." 


HEADING  OF  THIS  BOOK.— Jfe  £J  J£   "*. 

t,«  Yaou  said— No. XX1  Hing  Ping  says:— 
if  recordf  the  wordf  of  the  two  emperors, 
the  three  kings,  and  of  Confucius,  throwing 
light  on  the  excellence  of  the  ordinances  of 
Heaven,  and  the  transforming  power  of  govern- 
ment. Its  doctrines  are  all  those  of  sages,  wor- 
thy of  being  transmitted  to  posterity.  On  this 
account,  it  brings  up  the  rear  of  all  the  other 
books,  without  any  particular  relation  to  the 
one  immediately  preceding.' 

1.  Principles  and  ways  of  Yaou,  Shuic, 
Yu,  T*ako,  and  Woo.  The  first  five  paragraphs 
here  are  mostly  compiled  from  different  parts 
of  the  Shoo-king.  But  there  are  many  varia- 
tions of  language*    The  compiler  may  have 


thought  it  sufficient,  if  he  gave  the  substance  of 
the  original  in  his  quotations,  without  nnririnf 
to  observe  a  verbal  accuracy,  or,  possibly,  tat 
Shoo-king,  as  it  was  in  his  days,  may  have  con- 
tained the  passages  as  he  gives  them,  and  the 
variations  be  owing  to  the  burning  of  moat  of 
the  classical  books  by  the  founder  of  the  Ts*is 
dynasty,  and  their  recovery  and  restoration  in  a 
mutilated  state.  1.  We  do  not  find  this  address 
of  Yaou  to  Shun  in  the  Shoo-king,  Pt  I„  but  the 
different  sentences  may  be  gathered  from  Pt  U. 
ii.  14,  15,  where  we  have  the  charge  of  Shun  to 
Yu.  Yaou's  reign  commenced  B.  C.  2856;  and 
after  reigning  78  years,  he  resigned  the  adnua- 
istration  to  Shun.  He  died.,  B.  C.  225$,  and,  tvo 
years  after,  Shun  occupied  the  throne,  in  ofee- 

dlenoe  to  the  will  of  the  people. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQI^ 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


215 


a  ju  j&  f.  £  *>  &  «$. 
#  #  t*  &  #  w  ^r  h» 

-&  ^iwi  S»  $;%  Mo  J|>  ^  IS*  it 

m  m  &.  ^  mm  *  *  *\ 

ft  A  "F  J*  j^  -  #i  # 


4.  Chow  conferred  great  gifts,  and  the  good  were  enriched. 

5.  "  Although  he  has  his  near  relatives,  they  are  not  equal  to 
my  virtuous  men.  The  people  are  throwing  blame  upon  me,  the 
one  man." 

6.  He  carefully  attended  to  the  weights  and  measures,  examined 
the  body  of  the  laws,  restored  the  discarded  officers,  and  the  good 
government  of  the  empire  took  its  course. 

7.  He  revived  states  that  had  been  extinguished,  restored  fami- 
lies whose  line  of  succession  had  been  broken,  and  called  to  office 
those  who  had  retired  into  obscurity,  so  that  throughout  the  empire 
the  hearts  of  the  people  turned  towards  him. 

8.  What  he  attached  chief  importance  to,  were  the  food  of  the 
people,  the  duties  of  mourning,  and  sacrifices. 

9.  By  his  generosity,  he  won  all.  By  his  sincerity,  he  made  the 
people  repose  trust  in  nim.  By  his  earnest  activity,  his  achieve- 
ments were  great.     By  his  justice,  all  were  delighted. 


tit**  'the  represented  and  calculated  numbers 
•»  heaven,'  u  e.,  the  divisions  of  the  year,  its 
to™**  months,  and  days,  all  described  in  a  ca- 
viar, as  they  succeed  one  another  with  deter- 
mined regularity.  Here,  ancient  and  modern 
jjtarpreters  agree  in  giving  to  the  expression 
ti*  meaning  which  appears  in  the  translation. 
l**J  observe  here,  that  Choo  He  differs  often 
iron  the  old  interpreters  in  explaining  these 
gauges  of  the  Shoo  king,  but  I  have  followed 
™t  leaving  the  correctness  or  incorrectness  of 
■■  rim  to  be  considered  in  the  annotations 
«*  the  8hoo-king.   3.  Before  £J  here  we  must 


&,  the  designation  of  the  founder 
w  the  Shaug  dynasty.  The  sentences  here  may 
fcftbuance  be  collected  from  the  Shoo-ting, 


PtIV.iii.4,8.    Downto^Jj£:^j(£bita 

Srayer  addressed  to  God  bv  T'ang,  on  his  un- 
ertaking  the  overthrow  of  the  Hea  dynasty, 
which  he  rehearses  to  his  nobles  and  people, 
after  the  completion  of  his  work.  T'ang's  name 

was  Jj||.  We  do  not  find  in  the  Shoo-king  the 
remarkable  designation  of  God—  Ifl  ifl  Ey 
•Jjl*.  For  the  grounds  on  which  I  translate^* 
by  God,  see  my  work  on  *The  notions  of  the 
Chinese  concerning  God  and  Spirits/  Ey,now 
generally  used  for  •  empress,'  was  anciently 
used  for  *  sovereign,'  and  applied  to  the  emper- 
ors. Here,  it  is  an  adjective,  or  in  apposition 
with^.  Tl^siMer  is  Ke^(^),  the  tyrant, 


216 


OONFUdAH  A9ALECTS. 


£  if  j&  ^>  $»  fa  pt  h>  #«> 

till  ifo  ffiMM^t 


Chapter  II.  1.  Tsze-chang  asked  Confucius,  saying,  "  In  wlat 
way  should  a  person  in  authority  act  in  order  that  he  may  conduct 
government  properly  ?w  The  Master  replied,  "  Let  him  honour  the 
five  excellent,  and  banish  away  the  four  bad,  things ; — then  may  he 
conduct  government  properly.  Tsze-chang  said,  "  What  are  meant 
by  the  five  excellent  things?  The  Master  said,  "When  the  person 
in  authority  is  beneficent  without  great  expenditure ;  when  he  lap 
tasks  on  the  people  without  their  repining;  when  he  pursues  what  he 
desires  without  being  covetous;  when  he  maintains  a  dignified  ease 
without  being  proud;  when  he  is  majestic  without  being  fierce." 

2.  Tsze-chang  said,  "  What  is  meant  by  being  beneficent  without 
great  expenditure?"     The  Master  replied,  "When  the  person  in 


and  last  emperor  of  the  Hea  dynasty.  'The 
ministers  of  God'  are  the  able  and  rirtuous  men, 
whom  Tang  had  called,  or  would  call,  to  office. 

B7  |ffi  fl'lfj'AuN  T<an&  toxica**  ****>  *  ** 
punishing  or  rewarding,  he  only  wanted  to  act 

in  harmony  with  the  mind  of  God.  ^E|J^[j§£ 

tranaL  In  the  diet,  it  is  said  that  £j[  and  ^ 
are  interchanged.  This  is  a  case  in  point.  4. 
In  the  Shoo-king,  Pt  V.  iii.  8,  we  find  king 

jjfc  Jj£,  (I  distributed  great  rewards  through 
the  empire,  and  all  the  people  were  pleased  and 
submitted.'  5.  See  the  Shoo-king,  Pt  V.  i.  sect 

1X6.7.    ThesubjectinfiiABaSBu® 


<*$$>  tyrant  of  the  Tin  dynasty.    $),— in 

the  sense  of  Jg.    ^  is  used  in  the  sense  of 

^,  'to  blame.'— The  people  found  fault  with 
him,  because  he  did  not  come  to  §ave  them  from 
their  sufferings,  by  destroying  their  oppressor. 


The  remaining  paragraphs  are  descriptive  of 
the  policy  of  king  Woo,  but  cannot,  excepting 
the  8th  one,  be  traced  in  the  present  Shoo-king. 
'Qr,  par.  9,  is  in  the  low.  8d  tone.    See  XVH 

6,  which  chap.,  generally,  resembles  this  para- 
graph. 

2.  HOW  GOVBBRXBirr  mat  bb  cohdoctid 
WITH  EFFICIENCY,  BY  HONOURING  FTFB3  SXCBL- 
LRBT  THINGS,  AND  PUTTIHO  AWAY  FOCB  BAB 
THINGS: — A    OONVRB8ATION    WITH    TSZB-CHAJ». 

It  is  understood  that  this  chapter,  and  the  next, 
give  the  ideas  of  Confucius  on  gorernment,  at 
a  sequel  to  those  of  the  ancient  sages  and  em- 
perors, whose  principles  are  set  forth  in  the  last 
chapter,  to  show  how  Confucius  was    their 

proper  successor.  1.  On  4£  jfiSr  see  VL  6,  bat 
thegloMofthefl  #«J»-#fci#:H& 

here  denotes  generally  the  practice  of  govern* 
ment  It  is  not  to  be  taken  as  indicating! 
minister.'  We  may,  however,  retain  the  proper 
meaning  of  the  phrase,  Confucius  describing 
principles  to  be  observed  by  all  in  authority,  and 
which  will  find*  in  the  highest  their  notes* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS, 


217 


\m>m  %  %  >b  f,m  % 


authority  makes  more  beneficial  to  the  people  the  things  from  which 
they  naturally  derive  benefit; — is  not  this  being  beneficent  with- 
out great  expenditure?  When  he  chooses  the  labours  which  are 
{>roper,  and  makes  them  labour  on  them,  who  will  repine?  When 
lis  desires  are  set  on  benevolent  government,  and  he  realizes  it,  who 
will  accuse  him  of  covetousness?  Whether  he  has  to  do  with  many 
people  or  few,  or  with  things  great  or  small,  he  does  not  dare  to  in- 
dicate any  disrespect; — is  not  this  to  maintain  a  dignified  ease  with- 
out any  pride?  He  adjusts  his  clothes  and  cap,  and  throws  a  dignity 
into  his  looks,  so  that,  thus  dignified,  he  is  looked  at  with  awe ; — is 
not  this  to  be  majestic  without  being  fierce?" 

3.  Tsze-chang  then  asked,  "  What  are  meant  by  the  four  bad 
things?"  The  Master  said,  "To  put  the  people  to  death  without 
having  instructed  them ; — this  is  called  cruelty.  To  require  from 
them,  suddenly,  the  full  tale  of  work,  without  having  given  them 
warning : — this  is  called  oppression.  To  issue  orders  as  if  without 
urgency,  at  first,  and,  when  the  time  comes,  to  insist  on  them  with 


embodiment.  The  |J  j^|  favours  this  view. 
See  ite  paraphrase  in  he.  I  have  therefore 
translated  &*  Jp  by — '  a  person  in  authority.' 

5£fffl  #£R>-,ee  W' 18' though  the  •lo- 
cation of  the  terms  there  is  different.    ;3jjc  jK 

%  g,-see  XIH.  26^  jg  jfij  ^g^-see 

VIL37.   2.  |JJ  f^-j^-j^  ia  instanced  by 

the  promotion  of  agriculture.    J3  p] 


-7-  is  instanced  by  the  employment  of  the  people 

in  advantageous  public  works.  m^^-^pr-p? 
is  explained : — c  Desire  for  what  is  not  proper 
is  covetousness,  but  if,  while  the  wish  to  hive 
the  empire  overshadowed  by  his  benevolence 
has  not  reached  to  universal  advantaging,  hit 
desire  does  not  cease,  then,  with  a  heart  impa- 
tient of  people's  evils,  he  administers  a  govern- 
ment impatient  of  those  evils.  What  he  desires 
is  benevolence,  and  what  he  gets  is  the  same ; 

—how  can  he  be  regarded  as  covetous  ? '  jffS 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


'21* 


CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


£n  *H  B  %*%  &  M  If  tfi  £ 

4o*  40^T  fa  0^  £  A 

severity ; — this  is  called  injury.  And,  generally  speaking,  to  give 
pay  or  rewards  to  men,  and  yet  to  do  it  in  a  stingy  way ; — this  is 
called  acting  the  part  of  a  mere  official." 

Chapter  III.     1.  The  Master  said,   "Without  recognizing  the 
ordinances  of  Heaven,  it  is  impossible  to  be  a  superior  man. 

2.  "  Without  an  acquaintance  with  the  rules  of  Propriety,  it  is 
impossible  for  the  character  to  be  established. 

3.  "  Without  knowing  the  force  of  words,  it  is  impossible  to  know 


men. 

1*  explained  here  by  VJ,  'to  require  from.' 

We  may  get  that  meaning  out  of  the  char., 
whichs'to  examine,'  'to  look  for.'  A  good 
deal  has  to  be  supplied,  here  and  in  the  sentence* 
below,  to  bring  out  the  meaning  as  in  the  trans- 
lation. |g  ^  is  explaiued  by  j»£j  ;£,  and 
teems  to  me  to  be  nearly— our  *  on  the  whole.' 
HJ  j»L — *  giving  out,'  i  e^Jrem  this  and  « pre- 
senting/ ue^to  thai.  The  whole  is  understood 
to  refer  to  rewarding  men  for  their  services,  and 
doing  it  in  an  unwilling  and  stingy  manner. 

6.    The  ordwahcbs  or  Heave*,  the  bulbs 


or  Propriety,  ahb  the  roses  or  Words,  all 

necessary  to  be  kvowk.    1.  ^JJI  here  is  not 

only  'knowing,'  but 4  believing  and  resting  in.' 

&J  is  the  will  of  Heaven  regarding  right  and 

wrong,  of  which  man  has  the  standard  in  his  ova 
moral  nature.  If  this  be  not  recognised,  a  man 
Is  the  slave  of  passion,  or  the  sport  of  feeling. 

2.    Compare  VIII.  8,  2.    8.    4£Jf  here  supposes 

much  thought  and  examination  of  principles. 
Words  are  the  voice  of  the  heart.  To  know  a 
man,  we  must  attend  well  to  what  and  how  bs 
thinks* 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


THE   GREAT   LEARNING. 


219 


Jtfy  master,  tlie  philosopher  ChHng,  says:—"  The  Great  Learning  is 
a  book  left  by  Confucius,  and  forms  the  gate  by  which  first  learn- 
ers enter  into  virtue.  That  we  can  now  perceive  the  order  in 
which  the  ancients  pursued  tlieir  learning,  is  solely  owing  to  the 
preservation  of  this  work,  the  Analects  and  Mencius  coming  after 
it  Learners  must  commence  their  course  with  this,  and  then  it 
may  be  hoped  they  will  be  kept  from  error? 


Titls  of  th*  Work.—  Ar  i|ft,  'The  Great 

Learning/  I  have  pointed  out,  in  the  prolego- 
mena, the  great  differences  which  are  found 
among  Chinese  commentators  on  this  Work,  on 
almost  every  point  connected  with  the  criticism 
and  interpretation  of  it.  We  encounter  them 
here  on  the  very  threshold.  The  name  itself  is 
simply  the  adoption  of  the  two  commencing 
characters  of  the  treatise,  according  to  the 
custom  noticed  at  the  beginning  of  the  Analects; 
but  in  explaining  those  two  characters,  the  old 

and  new  schools  differ  widely.    Anciently,  ~T£ 

was  read  as  HJT,  and  the  oldest  commentator 
whose  notes  on  the  work  are  preserved,  Ch4ng 
K*ang-shing,  in  the  last  half  of  the  second 
century,  said  that  the  book  was  called  -^  i§§&, 

it  recorded  that  extensive  learning,  which  was 
available  for  the  administration  of  government.' 
This  view  is  approved  by  K*ung  Ying^tt  (^ 

j|5  |g),  whose  expansion  of  K'ang-shing's 
notes,  written  in  the  first  half  of  the  7th  century, 
still  remains.  He  says— ^^,jj|[  iH^C> 
*^£  &§1  means  the  highest  principles.'    Choo 


He's  definition,  on  the  contrary,  is — -yrSBfyg 

:fc  A  £  #  •&•  4:fc  #  mean*  ** 

Learning  of  Adults.'  One  of  the  paraphrasts 
who  follow  him  says— Ar  Jjt  "j^   k,  S^ 

/J\  -jr  &K  '  ^  means  adults,  in  opposition 
to  children.'  The  grounds  of  Choo  He's  interpr. 
are  to  be  found  in  his  very  elegant  preface  to 
the  Boole,  where  he  tries  to  make  it  out,  that 
we  have  here  the  subjects  taught  in  the  advanced 
schools  of  antiquity.  I  have  contented  myself 
with  the  title — 4The  Great  Learning,'  which  is 
a  literal  translation  of  the  characters,  whether 

read  as  ^^,  or  ^^. 

Tub  introductory  note. — I  have  thought  it 
well  to  translate  this,  and  all  the  other  notes 
and  supplements  appended  by  Choo  He  to  the 
original  text,  because  they  appear  in  nearly  all 
the  editions  of  the  work,  which  fall  into  the  hands 
of  students,  and  his  view  of  the  classics  is  what 
must  be  regarded  as  the  orthodox  one.  The 
translation,  which  is  here  given,  is  also,  for  the 
most  part,  according  to  his  views,  though  my 
own  differing  opinion  will  be  found  freely  ex- 
pressed in  the  notes.  Another  version,  follow- 
ing the  order  of  the  text,  before  it  was  trans- 
posed by  him  and  his  masters,  the  Ch*ing,  and 
without  reference  to  his  interpretations,  will  be 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


f20 


THS  GftJEAT  LSABKIHO. 


J^   &W  #olfc 


THE  TEXT  OF  CONFUCIUS. 

1.  What  the  Great  Learning  teaches,  is — to  illustrate  illustrious  1 
virtue ;  to  renovate  the  people ;  and  to  rest  in  the  highest  excellence. 

2.  The  point  where  to  rest  being  known,  the  object  of  pursuit 
is  then  determined;  and,  that  being  determined,  a  calm  unperturbed- 
ness  may  be  attained.     To  that  calmness  there  will  succeed  a  tranquil 

found  in  the  translation  of  the  Le-ke.  T'fB 
^P«,— see  not©  to  the  Ana.  I.  i.  The  ChHng 
here,  is  the  second  of  the  two  brothers,  to  whom 
reference  is  made  in  the  prolegomena.    jfT  ff, 

4  Confucius,'  the  K*ung,  as  <&+  JjF  is  found 
continually  in  the  Analects  for  the  Ke,  u  e.,  the 
fchief  of  the  Ke  family.  But  how  can  we  say 
that  'The  Great  Learning'  is  a  work  left  by 
Confucius?  Even  Choo  He  ascribes  only  a 
small  portion  of  it  to  the  Master,  and  makes 
the  rest  to  be  the  production  of  the  disciple 
Tsftng,  and  before  his  time,  the  whole  work  was 
•attributed  generally  to  the  sage's  grandson.  I 
should  be  glad  if  I  had  authority  for  taking 

^rL  J^  M==-?L  PI' the  Confuc5an  •chool 

Chapter  I.  The  tbxt  of  Cowrccirs.  Such 
Choo  He,  as  will  be  seen  from  his  concluding 
.note,  determines  this  chapter  to  be,  and  it  has 

been  divided  into  two  sections  (K),  the  first 

containing  three  paragraphs,  occupied  with  the 

heads  (Jjfl  ^)  of  the  Great  Learning,  and  the 

second  containing  four  paragraphs,  occupied 

'with  the  particular*  (4A  H  )  of  those. 

Par.  1.  The  heads  of  the  Great  Learning,  -fc 
4J£  <^jH^— ' tne  war  °' tne  Great  learning,' 
*H  being=g&  -g  %.-}}  j£,  'the  methods 
of  cultivating  and  practising  it,' — the  Great 
Learning,  that  is.  ^,  'is  in.'  The  first  ($}  is 
a  verb ;  the  second  is  an  adjective,  qualifying 
ifi.  The  illustrious  virtue  is  the  virtuous  na- 
ture which  man  derives  from  Heaven.  This  is 
perverted  as  man  grows  up,  through  defects  of 
the  physical  constitution,  through  inward  lusts, 
and  through  outward  seductions ;  and  the  great 
business  of  life  should  be,  to  bring  the  nature 
back  to  its  original  purity. — 'To  renovate  the 
people,'— this  object  of  the  Great  Learning  is 

made  out,  by  changing  the  character  533  of  the 

old  text  into  ^Jp  The  Ch'ing  first  proposed  the 
alteration,  and  Choo  He  approved  of  it.  When 
a  man  has  entirely  illustrated  his  own  illustri- 


ous nature,  he  has  to  proceed  to  bring1  about 
the  same  result  in  every  other  man,  tiU  'under 
heaven'  there  be  not  an  individual,  who  Is  not 
in  the  same  condition  as  himself.— 'The  highest 
excellence  *  is  understood  of  the  two  previous 
matters.  It  is  not  a  third  and  different  object 
of  pursuit,  but  indicates  a  perseverance  in  tat 
two  others,  till  they  are  perfectly  accomplished 
— According  to  these  explanations,  the  objects 
contemplated  in  the  Great  Learning,  am  not 
three,  but  two.  Suppose  them  realized,  and  we 
should  have  the  whole  world  of  mankind  per- 
fectly good,  every  individual  what  he  ought  to 
be! 
Against  the  above  interpretation,  wo  have  to 

consider  the  older  and  simpler.  4m  is  there 
not  the  nature,  but  simply  virtue,  or  virtuous 
conduct,  and  the  first  object  in  the  Great 
Learning  is  the  making  of  onc's-self  more  and 
more  illustrious  in  virtue,  or  the  practice  of  be* 
nevolence,  reverence,  filial  piety,  kindness,  and 

•tacerity.    See  the  £t$^C$i£9M 

loc. — There  is  nothing,  of  course,  of  the  i 
of  the  people,  in  this  interpretation.   The  i 

object  of  the  Great  Learning  is  \ 

<©  'Jfc  ^jjj,  'to  love  the  people.1 — The  third 
object  is  said  by  Ying-ti  to  be  '  in  resting  ia 
conduct  which  is  perfectly  good  (ffi   ||»  ff; 

jft  JjS  H  £  fjV  and  here  also,  there  would 
seem  to  be  only  two  objects,  for  what  essential 
distinction  can  we  make  between  the  first  and 
third  ?    There  will  be  occasion  below  to  tehr 

to  the  reasons  for  changing  £j§  into  Sjj,  and 

their  unsatlsfactoriness.  '  To  love  the  people ' is, 
doubtless,  the  second  thing  taught  by  the  Great 
Learning.  —  Having  the  heads  of  the  Great 
Learning  now  before  us,  according  to  both  in- 
terpretations of  it,  we  feel  that  the  student  of 
it  should  be  an  emperor,  and  not  an  ordinary 
man. 

Par.  2.  The  mental  process  by  which  the  point 
of  rent  may  he  attained.  I  confess  that  I  do  not 
well  understand  this  par.,  in  the  relation  of  its 
parts  in  itself,  nor  in  relation  to  the  rest  of  ths 

chapter.     Choo  He  says : — '  \\r  is  the  ground 

where  we  ought  to  rest;'— namely,  the  highest  sjk- 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


BTOOtM, 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


221 


repose.     In  that  repose  there  may  be  careful  deliberation,  and  that 
deliberation  will  be  followed  by  the  attainment  of  the  desired  end. 

3.  Things  have  their  root  and  their  completion.  Affairs  hav6 
their  end  and  their  beginning.  To  know  what  is  first  and  what 
is  last  will  lead  near  to  what  is  taught  in  the  Great  Learning. 

4.  The  ancients  who  wished  to  illustrate  illustrious  virtue  through- 
out the  empire,  first  ordered  well  their  own  States.  Wishing  to 
order  well  their  States,  they  first  regulated  their  families.  Wishing 
to  regulate  their  families,  they  first  cultivated  their  persons.  Wishing 
to  cultivate  their  persons,  they  first  rectified  their  hearts.     Wishing 


ceUence  mentioned  above.  But  if  this  be  known 
in  the  outset,  where  is  the  necessity  for  the  J» , 
or  *  careful  deliberation,*  which  issues  in  its  at- 
tainment t  Hie  paraphrasts  make  ty  jj^  to 
embrace  even  all  that  is  underrtood  by  jfe  fa 

38fc  $P  below.— Ting-tt  is  perhaps  rather 
more  intelligible.  He  says :— *  When  it  is  known 
that  the  rest  is  to  be  in  the  perfectly  good,  then 
the  mind  has  fixedness.  So  it  is  free  from  con- 
cupiscence, and  can  be  still,  not  engaging  in 
disturbing  pursuits.  That  still  leads  to  a  re- 
pose and  harmony  of  the  feelings.  That  state 
of  the  feelings  fits  for  careful  thought  about 

•*•*"  <&  48>  &  ffc  ♦*  "*  thence  U 
results  that  what  is  right  in  affairs  is  attained.' 
Perhaps,  the  par.  just  intimates  that  the  objects 
of  the  G.  L.  being  so  great,  a  calm,  serious, 
thoughtfulness  is  required  in  proceeding  to  seek 
their  attainment. 

Par.  8.  The  order  of  things  and  method*  in  the 
two  preceding  paragraphs.  So,  ace.  to  Choo  He, 
does  this  par.  wind  up  the  two  preceding.  'The 
illustration  of  virtue,'  he  says,  *  is  the  root,  and 
the  renoration  of  the  people  is  the  completion 
(lit^  the  branches).  Knowing  where  to  rest  is 
the  beginning,  and  being  able  to  attain  is  the  end. 
The  root  and  the  beginning  are  what  is  Jirst. 
The  completion  and  end  are  what  is  last.'— The 
adherents  of  the  old  commentators  say,  on  the 
contrary,  that  this  par.  is  introductory  to  the 


succeeding  ones.  They  contend  that  the  illus- 
tration of  virtue  and  renovation  of  the  people 

are  doings  (S£),  and  not  things  (Wj)*  A°c.  to 
them,  the  things  are  the  person,  heart,  thoughts. 
&c,  mentioned  below,  which  are  ( the  root,'  and 
the  family,  kingdom,  and  empire,  which  are 
4  the  branches.'  The  affairs  are  the  various  pro- 
cesses put  forth  on  those  things. — This,  it  seems 
to  me,  is  the  correct  interpretation. 

Par.  4.  The  different  steps  by  which  the  illustra- 
tion of  illustrious  virtue  throughout  the  empire  may 

be  brought  about  Ejf]  E$  Wit^^Z^  1-un* 
derstood  by  the  school  of  Choo  He  as  embracing 
the  two  first  objects  of  the  Great  Learning,  the 
illustration,  namely  of  virtue,  and  the  renova- 
tion of  the  people.  We  are  not  aided  in  deter- 
mining the  meaning  by  the  synthetic  arrange- 
ment of  the  different  steps  in  the  next  par.,  for 

the  result  arrived  at  there  is  simply—  ^  "TC 
2J*,  « the  whole  empire  was  made  tranquil.'— 
Ying-ta's  comment  is— j^^  B  £  $  ££ 

$M1fc3z~fi>  ' to dispUy illustriously 
their  own  illustrious  virtue  (or,  virtues'),  making 
them  reach  through  the  whole  empire.'  But 
the  influence  must  be  very  much  transforma- 
tive. Of  the  several  steps  described,  the  cen- 
tral one  is  {&&>  *  the  cultivation  of  the  person/ 
which,  indeed,  is  called  ,2fc  'the  root,'  in  par. 

Digitized  by  UOOV IC 


222 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


TBXT« 


1  §!ife  £#.»£#»  iE£ 


to  rectify  their  hearts,  they  first  sought  to  be  sincere  in  ifeeir 
thoughts.  Wishing  to  be  sincere  in  their  thoughts,  they  first  ex- 
tended to  the  utmost  their  knowledge.  Such  extension  of  know- 
ledge lay  in  the  investigation  of  things. 

5.     Things   being    investigated,    knowledge    became    complete. 
Their  knowledge  being  complete,  their  thoughts  were  sincere.    Their 


6.  This  requires  « the  heart  to  be  correct,'  and 
that  again  *  that  the  thoughts  be  sincere.'  Choo 
He  defines  j(£  as  ^  £  ffi  :£,  «what  the 
body  has  for  its  lord,'  and  ]g  as  jQ  <^#f 
^g, « what  the  jQ  sends  forth.'   Ying-ta  says : 

-fift  ^  M  i&  fl  Z  4&  'that  which 
comprehends  and  embraces  all  considerings  is 

«*«**&' %ffi  &■  M  tern  z 

jj,  'the  thoughts  under  emotion  are  what  is 

caUed^,f  Aj)  "  then  th*  meta-physicai  part 
of  our  nature,  all  that  we  comprehend  under 
the  terms  of  mind  or  soul,  heart,  and  spirit. 
This  is  conceived  of  as  quiescent,  and  when  its 
activity  is  aroused,  then  we  have  thoughts  and 
purposes  relative  to  what  affects  it.  The  ♦be- 
ing sincere'  is  explained  by  ff,  'real.'  The 
sincerity  of  the  thoughts  is  to  be  obtained  by 
§^  $p,  which  means,  ace.  to  Choo  He,  'carry- 
ing  our  knowledge  to  its  utmost  extent,  with 
the  desire  that  there  may  be  nothing  which  it 
shall  not  embrace.'    This  knowledge,  finally,  is 

reaU*ed  ^^i^J-  The  same  authority  takes 
fa,  'things,'  as  embracing,  ^f,  'affairs,'  as 

weU#  4&'  sometimes=ig,  «to  come  or  extend 
to/  and  assuming  that  the  '  coming  to'  here  is  by 
study,  he  makes  ft=lS£  5ft*  '  to  examine  ex- 
haustively,' so  that 4  ^  fa  means  exhausting 
by  examination  the  principles  of  things  and  af- 
fairs, with  the  desire  that  their  uttermost  point 
may  be  reached.'— We  feel  that  this  explanation 
cannot  be  correct,  or  that,  if  it  be  correct,  the 
teaching  of  the  Chinese  sage  is  far  beyond  and 
above  the  condition  and  capacity  of  men.  How 
can  we  suppose  that,  in  order  to  secure  sincerity 
of  thought  and  our  self-cultivation,  there  is  ne- 
cessarily the  study  of  all  the  phenomena  of 
physics  and  metaphysics,  and  of  the  events  of 
history  ?  Moreover,  Choo  He's  view  of  the  two 
last  clauses  is  a  consequence  of  the  alterations 
which  he  adopts  in  the  order  of  the  text.  As 
that  exists  in  the  Le-ke,  the  7th  par.  of  this 


chapter  is  followed  by  tffc^fcl^C ,  $C% 
$31  £?H  fy,  which  he  has  transferred  and 
made  the  5th  chapter  of  annotations.  Ting-ti'i 
comment  on  it  is : — *  The  root  means  the  persm. 
The  person  (t.  e.,  personal  character)  being  re- 
garded as  the  root,  if  one  can  know  his  own 
person,  this  is  the  knowledge  of  the  root ;  yea, 
this  is  the  very  extremity  of  knowledge,*  If  we 
apply  this  conclusion  to  the  clauses  under  notice, 
it  is  said  that  wishing  to  make  our  thoughti 
sincere  we  must  first  carry  to  the  utmost  oar 
self-knowledge,  and  this  extension  of  self-know- 

ledge  $£%&fa    Now,  the  change  of  the  stjte 

indicates  that  the  relation  of  S£  $&  and  ^ 

fa  is  different  from  that  of  the  parts  in  the 
other  clauses.  It  is  not  said  that  to  get  the  one 
thing  we  must  first  do  the  other.  Bather  it 
seems  to  me  that  the  ^  fa  is  a  consequence 

of  |5£  $R » that  in  it  is  seen  the  other.    Nov, 

53^,  4a  rule  or  pattern,'  and  j£,  'to  correct,' 

are  accepted  meanings  of  jjfe,  and  fa  being 

taken  generally  and  loosely  asoite^s,  ^£  >j£ 

fa  will  tell  us  that,  when  his  self-knowledge  k 

complete,  a  man  is  a  law  to  himself;  measurinf, 
and  measuring  correctly,  all  things  with  which 
he  has  to  do,  not  led  astray  or  beclouded  hy 
them.  This  is  the  interpretation  strongly  insist- 
ed  on  by  j^|  ^  j^,  the  author  of  the  "j£ 

^^^j|jf$?.  It  is  the  only  view  into 
any  sympathy  with  which  I  can  place  my  mind. 
In  harmony  with  it,  I  would  print  ififr  Jg  jtt 
as  a  par.  by  itself,  bet  ween  the  analytic 


and  synthetic  processes  described  in  parr.  4, 5. 
Still  there  are  difficulties  connected  with  it,  sad 
I  leave  the  vexed  questions,  regretting  my  owa 
inability  to  clear  diem  up. 

Par.  5.  The  synthesis  of the  preceding  process**. 
Observe  the  g§#  of  the  preceding  par.  is  changed 
into  jg ,  and  how  ^  now  becomes  ^jj£,  low. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


903IWCIC8. 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


223 


tiyAJif.ii, 

:*  JUL  &&*■!&& 

&M  ©  <f  jk 

0f  ^^M 


V 


W  #>  W  |j| 

)n  M  &  M 

thoughts  beinir/  sincere,  their  hearts  were  then  rectified.  Their  hearts 
being  rectified,  their  persons  were  cultivated.  Their  persons  being 
cultivated,  their  families  were  regulated.  Their  families  being 
regulated,  their  States  were  rightly  governed.  Their  States 
being  rightly  governed,  the  whole  empire  was  made  tranquil  and 
Jiappy. 

6.  From  the  emperor  down  to  the  mass  of  the  people,  all  must 
consider  the  cultivation  of  the  person  the  root  of  every  thing 
besides. 

7.  It  cannot  be,  when  the  root  is  neglected,  that  what  should 
spring  from  it  will  be  well  ordered.  It  never  has  been  the  case  that 
what  was  of  great  importance  has  been  slightly  cared  for,  and,  at  the 
same  time,  that  what  was  of  slight  importance  has  been  greatly  cared 
for* 


3d  tone.  j&  is  explained  by  jj£  jj,  'the 
work  of  ruling/  and  yj^  by  jj|  jjgflr,  'the  re- 
volt.*   Jj=J  it  used  for  Jj&t  as  in  p.  9. 

Par.  6.  The  cultivation  of  the  person  is  the 
prime,  radical,  thing  required  from  all  I  hare 
•aid  above  that  the  Great  Learning  is  adapted 
only  to  an  emperor,  but  it  is  intimated  here 
that  the  people  also  may  take  part  in  it  in  their 
degree.  7  JC»,  'Son  of  Heaven,'  a  designa- 
tion of  the  emperor,  J^Zt^^^  %  '  be- 
cause he  is  ordained  by  Heaven.'  *§g  &sa* 
—  tif,  'all.'     Chlng  K'ang-shing,  however, 

-»-%&^  ft  m&>'&m 

men  thai  tbey  uniformly  do  this.' 


Par.  7.  Reiteration  of  'the  importance  oj atteno% 
ing  to  the  root.  Choo  He  makes  the  root  here  to 
be  the  person,  but  accord,  to  the  prec  par.,  it  it 
'  the  cultivation  of  the  person '  which  is  intend- 
ed. By  the  ^t  or  'branches'  is  intended  the 
proper  ordering,  of  the  family,  the  state,  the 
empire.  ]§[  |^,  'thick,'  and  'thin,'— used 
here  metaphorically.  Jjff  JB,  ace.  to  Choo  He, 
means  'the  family,'  and  fft  jtt,  the  state  and 
the  empire,  but  that  I  cannot  understand.    Or 

^isthesameasthero*.  Mencius  has  a  say. 
ing  which  may  illustrate  the  second  part  of  the 

£F, '  He,  who  is  careless  in  what  is  important 
wm  be  careless  in  every  tWn|rt'zed  )Q£ 


324 


THE  QBBAT  LBABX1KG. 


r.  M  0  *  PI  *  m 
%  %M>$lM>-\- ft 

il^f  If,T 


The  preceding  chapter  of  classical  text  is  in  the  wards  of  Confb&u, 
handed  down  by  the  philosopher  Tsang.  The  ten  chapters  of 
explanation  which  follow  contain  the  views  of  Tsang,  and  «re 
recorded  by  his  disciples.  In  the  old  copies  of  the  work,  Am 
appeared  considerable  confusion  in  these,  from  the  disarrangement 
of  the  tablets.  But  now,  availing  myself  of  the  decisions  of  tk 
philosopher  ChHng,  and  having  examined  anew  the  classical  text, 
I  have  arranged  tt  in  order,  as  follows: — 

COKMBNTABT  OF  THE  PHILOSOPHER  TSANG. 

Chapter  I.     1.   In  the  Announcement  to  K'ang  it  is  said,  "He 
was  able  to  make  his  virtue  illustrious." 

Concluding  wot*.  It  hat  been  shown  in  the 
prolegomena  that  there  it  no  ground  for  the 
distinction  made  here  between  so  much  %  at- 
tributed to  Confucius,  and  so  much  4Ml  or 

commentary,  ascribed  to  his  disciple  Tsing.  The 
invention  of  paper  is  ascribed  to  Ts*ae  Lun 

(&L  4jlb\  an  officer  of  the  Han  dynasty,  m 

the  time  of  the  emperor  Hwo  (jfp),  A.D.  69— 
104.  Before  that  time,  and  long  after  also, 
•lips  of  wood  and  of  bamboo  (ffi)>  were  used 
to  write  and  engrave  upon.  We  can  easily 
conceive  how  a  collection  of  them  might  get 
disarranged,  but  whether  those  containing  the 
Great  Learning  did  do  so  is  a  question  vehe- 
mently disputed.  >£|jtt — »J£,' the  chapter 

of  classic  on  the  right;'  JRjjtjr,  'on  the  left;' 
—these  are  expressiona=our  *  preceding,'  and 
4  as  follows,'  indicating  the  Chinese  method  of 
writing  and  printing  from  the  right  side  of  a 
manuscript  or  book  on  to  the  left. 

COMMRNTART  OF  THB  raTLOSOPHRR  TSAIG. 

1.  The  illustration  or  illustrious  virtue. 
The  student  will  do  well  to  refer  here  to  the 
text  of  'The  Great  Learning,'  as  it  appears  in 
the  Le-ke.  He  will  then  see  how  a  consider- 
able portion  of  it  has  been  broken  up,  and  trans- 


posed to  form  this  and  the  Ive 

chapters.    It  was,  no  doubt,  the  occurrence  4 

IB,  in  the  four  paragraphs  here,  and  of  the 

phrase  |g)  £gg,  which  determined  Owe  Ha 
to  form  them  into  one  chapter,  and  refer  then 
to  the  first  head  in  the  classical  text.  The  cU 
commentators  connect  them  with  the  gssst 
business  of  making  the  thoughts  sincere.  L 
See  the  Shoo-king,  V.  x.  3.  The  words  an 
part  of  the  address  of  King  Woo  to  his  heather 

Fung(^),  called  also  K«ang-ehuh  (jQ{  £ ; 

J&,  the  hon.  ep.)  on  appointing  him  te  me 

marquisate  of  £&r.  The  subject  of  3ft  * 
king  Win,  to  whose  example  K'ang-shutT  ie 
referred. —  We  cannot  determine,    from  this 

parn  between  the  oM  interpretation  of  A,  » 
—'virtues,'  and  the  new  which  understands  fcj 

it,— « the  heart  or  nature,  all-virtuous.'  t>  8es 
the  Shoo-king,  IV.  v.   Sect.  L  2.     Choe  8s 

«^jft^jHV*V  or  jg£,  'te  jadgV 
'to  examine.'  Toe  old  interpr.  explain  it  l<r 
1Jpt  4to  correct.'  The  sentence  is  part  «f  ass 
address  of  the  premier,  B-yin,  to  T*at-fcmV  4* 
3d  emperor  of  the  Shang  dynasty,  B.  Q.  llnV 

1718.    The  subject  of  WS  is  Tae-keav 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


225 


&mm 


->% 


£&8B> 


2.  In  the  T'ae  KeX,  it  is  said,  "He  contemplated  and  studied 
the  illustrious  decrees  of  Heaven." 

3.  In  the  Canon  of  the  emperor  Yaou,  it  is  said,  "  He  was  able  to 
make  illustrious  his  lofty  virtue." 

4.  These  passages  all  slww  how  those  sovereigns  made  themselves 
illustrious. 

The  above  first  chapter  of  commentary  explains  the  illustration  of 
UlustrioL  virtue?^  '  ^    '  * 

Chapter  II.  1.  On  the  bathing-tub  of  T'ang,  the  following  words 
were  engraved : — "If  you  can  one  day  renovate  yourself,  do  so 
from  day  to  day.     Yea,  let  there  be  daily  renovation." 

2.  In  the  Announcement  to  K'ang,  it  is  said,  "To  stir  up  the 
new  people." 

3.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "Although  Chow  was  an 
ancient  state,  the  ordinance  which  lighted  on  it  was  new." 

4u  Therefore,  the  superior  man  in  every  thing  uses  his  utmost 
endeavours. 


the  great  Tang.    Choo  He  understands  by  |£J 

-&f,  the  Heaven-gHrett,  illustrious  nature  of 

man.    The  other  school  take  the  phrase  more 

generally,— the  §g  |gt  'displayed  ways' of 

Heswen,   &  See  the  Shoo-king,  L2.     It  is  of 

the  emperor  Taom  that  this  is  said.  4.  The  ^ 

ntnst  be  referred  to  the  three  quotations. 
2.    Tub  renovation  or  the  PitorL*.     Here 

€fce  character  Sjj,  'new,* 4  to  renovate,*  occurs 

fire  times,  and  it  was  to  find  something  corre- 
sponding to  it  at  the  commencement  of  the  work, 

which  made  the  Chlng  change  the    $3£    of 
to*0  3&\-    But  the  ^Sf  bere  lmve 


nothing  to  do  with  the  renovation  of  the  people. 
This  is  self-evident  in  the  1st  and  3d  parr.  The 
heading  of  the  chapter,  as  above,  is  a  mis* 
nonier.  1.  This  fact  about  T'ang's  bathing 
tub  had  come  down  by  tradition.  At  least, 
we  do  not  now  find  the  mention  of  it  anywhere 
but  here.  It  was  customary  among  the  an- 
cients, aa  it  is  in  China  at  the  present  day,  to 
engrave,  ail  about  them,  on  the  articles  of  their 
furniture,  such  moral  aphorisms  and  lessons.  2. 
See  the  K'ang  Aoov,  p.  7.  where  K(ang-shuh  is 
exhorted  to  assist  the  emperor  'to  settle  the 

decree  of  Heaven,  and  ^  4jj  £g£,'  which 

may  mean  to  make  the  bad  people  of  Yin  into 
good  people,  or  to  stir  up  the  new  people,  t.  e^ 
new,  as  recently  subjected  to  Chow.  3.  See  the 
She-king,  UL  L  Ode  L  *L  1.    The  subject  of  the 

Digitized  by  vJrOOQlC 


226 


THE  GREAT  LEARKWG. 


ft  *  f  »•  0  mits    m 

**AjfcjhiN&.ifctt*f 
Sjt$>ASpTJi#f 


TA#  a&ortf  second  chapter  of  commentary  explains  the  renovating 
of  the  people. 

Chapter  III.  1.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "The  impe- 
rial domain  of  a  thousand  lc  is  where  the  people  refit." 

2.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "The  twittering  yellow  bird 
rests  on  a  corner  of  the  mound."  The  Master  said,  "When  it  rests, 
it  knows  where  to  rest.  Is  it  possible  that  a  man  should  not  be  equal 
t>  this  bird?" 

3.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "  Profound  was  King  Win. 
With  how  bright  and  unceasing  a  feeling  of  reverence  did  he  regard 
his  resting  places!"  As  a  sovereign,  he  rested  in  benevolence.  As 
a  minister,  he  rested  in  reverence.  As  a  son,  he  rested  in  filial  pietv. 
As  a  father,  he  rested  in  kindness.  In  communication  with  hLssuth 
jects,  he  rested  in  good  faith. 

ode  is  the  praise  of  king  Wfin,  whose  virtue  led  ]  tablishment  of  the  Shang  op  Tin  dynasty.    ££ 
to  the  possession  of  the  empire  by  his  house,  ' 


more  tlian  a  thousand  years  after  its  first  rise.  | 
S.  ^t  -¥•  is  here  the  man  of  rank  and  office 
probably,  as  well  as  the  man  of  virtue;  but  I  do 
not,  for  my  own  part,  see  the  particular  relation 
of  this  to  the  preced.  parr.,  nor  the  work  which 
it  does  in  relation  to  the  whole  chapter. 

8.    ON  KK8T1KG  IK  THE  HIGHEST  EXCELLENCE. 

The  frequent  occurrence  of  |[-  in  these  para- 
graphs, and  of  ^S  ^,  in  par.  4,  led  Choo  He 
to  combine  them  in  one  chapter,  and  connect 
them  with  the  last  clause  in  the  opening  par. 
of  the  work.  1.  Sec  the  She-king,  IV.  iii.  Ode 
111.  st.  4.    The  ode  celebrates  the  rise  and  e»- 


is  the  1000  le  around  the  capital,  and  constifitf* 
ing  the  imperial  demesne.    The  quotation  abo**, 

according  to  Choo  He,  that  ij^J^  ^  Jjff  f£ 

jLfc  *H>  l^»  <every tWn* ,ua  tne  pb**  wbsw 

it  ought  to  rest/  But  that  surely  is  m  Tery 
sweeping  conclusion  from  the  words.  2.  See 
the  She-king,  II.  viii.  Ode  VI.  st.  2,  where  we 
have  the  complaint  of  a  down-trodden  man, 
contrasting  his  position  with  that  of  a  bird. 

For  up  here,  we  hare  j&jj  in  the  She-king. 

f«k  are  intended  to  express  the  sound  of 
bird's  singing  or  chattering.    'The  yefloW 
bird '  is  known  by  a  variety  of  names.   Aoqu» 


nr.m. 


THE,  GKEAT.  LEARNIKGI 


227 


_    # 


g  &>  3ft  ■£  #  ^  5» 

JM*  It  7- 11%  ft 


4.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "  Look  at  that  winding 
course  of  the  K'e,  with  the  green  bamboos  so  luxuriant !  Here  is 
otfr  elegant  and  accomplished  prince !  As  we  cut  and  then  file ; 
as  we  chisel  and  then  grind :  so  has  he  cultivated  himself.  How  grave 
is  he  and  dignified !  How  majestic  and  distinguished !  Our  elegant 
and  accomplished  prince  never  can  be  forgotten."  That  expression — 
44  as  we  cut  and  then  file,"  indicates  the  work  of  learning.  "As  we 
chisel,  and  then  grind,"  indicates  that  of  self  culture.  "  How  grave 
is  he  and  dignified !"  indicates  the  feeling  of  cautious  reverence. 
44  How  commanding  and  distinguished,"  indicates  an  awe-inspiring 
deportment.  u  Our  elegant  and  accomplished  prince  never  can  be 
forgotten,"  indicates  how,  when  virtue  is  complete  and  excellence  ex- 
treme, the  people  cannot  forget  them. 

l7,||for^;||for^;||for||.||; 

here,  poetice,  read  0.  jg[  is  used  as=  =jF , '  says,' 
or  '  means.'    It  is  to  be  understood  before  Q 

i$*j$i}$k> and  Ji!tfii'""T,ie  tran8P°8it5on 

of  this  par.  by  Choo  He  to  this  place  does  seem 
unhappy.  It  ought  evidently  to  come  in  con- 
nection with  the  work  of  ffi  J§p.  5.  See  the 
She-king,  IV.  i.  Sect.  I.  Ode  IV.  st.  3.  The 
former  kings  arc  Wan  and  Woo,  the  founders 
of  the  Chow  dynasty,  "jfc  |§£  are  an  inter- 
jection, read  woo  hoo.   In  the  She-king  we  have 


mon  one  is  ^  $£,  or,  properly,  j|g  ^  ts'cmg 
hang.  It  is  a  species  of  oriole.  The  -3P- 1£|  are 
worthy  of  observation.  If  the  first  chapter  of  the 
risusirnl  text,  as  Choo  He  Calls  it,  really  con- 
tains the  words  of  Confucius,  we  might  have 
expected  it  to  be  headed  by  these  characters. 

^ib  Bt» <in  Te9tln^:   8'  ^ t,,e  She'kin& 

III.  i  Ode  I.  st.  4.  The  stress  is  here  all  laid 
vpon  the  final  ||~,  which  does  not  appear  to 
have  any  force  at  all  in  the  original,  Choo  He 
himself  saying  there  that  it  is  ==3*-  ^j,  <  a  mere 

sopptemental  particle.'  In  jft^  jfc  is  read 
woo,  and  is  an  interjection.  4.  See  the  She- 
king,  I.  v.  Ode  I.  st.  1.    The  ode  celebrates  the 

Tirtae  of  the  duke  Woo  (jj£)  of  Wei  ( j$j),  in 
Us  laborious  endeavours  to  cultivate  his  person. 
There  are  some  verbal  differences  between  the 
ode  in  the  She-king,  aud  as  here  quoted ;  nuiuc- 


■ffe  5fi.    J^  p^  arc  found  with  the  same 

meaning.    I  translate  j£  ^f »  ~S-  j&»  D^ 

1  what  they  deemed  worthy,'  *  what  they  loved.' 
When  we  try  to  determine  what  that  what  was, 
we  are  perplexed  by  the  varying  views  of  the 


328 


Yfflt  GKIAT  IMAVKtSO. 


w  is.  $& 


*IB#. ... 


5.     In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "Ah  t  the  former  kings  are 
not  forgotten."    Future  princes  dean  worthy  what  they  deemed 


worthy,  and  love  what  they  loved.  The  common  people  delight  in 
what  they  delighted,  and  are  benefited  by  their  beneficial  arrange- 
ments.    It  is  on  this  account  that  the  former  kings,  after  they  have 


quitted  the  world,  are  not  forgotten. 

The  above  third  chapter  of  commentary  explains  resting  in  the  highest 
excellence. 

Chapter  IV.  The  Master  said,  "  In  hearing  litigations,  I  am 
like  any  other  body.  What  is  necessary  is  to  cause  the  people  to 
have  no  litigations?"  So,  those  who  are  devoid  of  principle  find  it 
impossible  to  carry  out  their  speeches,  and  a  great  awe  would  be 
struck  into  mens  minds; — this  is  called  knowing  the  root 

The  above  fourtli  chapter  of  commentary  explains  tfie  root  and  the 


issue. 

old  and  new  schools.  £££  ftf%— we  Analects, 
XV.  xix.—Acc.  to  Ying-t2,  'this  par.  illustrates 
the  business  of  hating  the  thoughts  sincere.' 
Ace.  to  Choo  He,  it  tells  that  how  the  former 
kings  renovated  the  people,  was  by  their  resting 
in  perfect  excellence,  so  as  to  be  able,  throughout 
the  empire  and  to  future  ages,  to  effect  that  there 
should  not  be  s  single  thing  but  got  its  proper 
place. 

4.    Explanation    of   the   boot  and  the 
m*akch*s.    See  the  Analects  XIL  xiii,  from 


which  we  understand  that  the  words  of  Coat 

terminate  at  |£l  JJ£,  and  that  what  follows 

Is  from  the  compiler.  According  to  the  old 
commentators,  this  is  the  conclusion  of  the 
chapter  on  haying  the  thoughts  made  sincere, 

and  that  ggj  jst  jfi£  is  the  roof.  But  arc. 
to  Choo,  it  is  the'illustratkm  of  illustrious  vfrtn* 
which  is  the  root,  while  the  renovation  of  ta* 
people  is  the  result  therefrom.  Looking  at  tin 
words  of  Confucius,  we  must  conclude  that 
sincerity  was  the  subject  in  his  mind. 


*.*. 


THE  GREAT  LKARNIKG. 


229 


>3£ 


HLfc^M.^ 


Chapter  V.     1.  This  is  called  knowing  the  root. 
2.    This  is  called  the  perfecting  of  knowledge. 

The  above  fifth  chapter  of  the  commentary  explained  the  meaning 
of  "investigating  things  and  carrying  knowledge  to  the  utmost 
extent?  but  it  is  now  lost  I  have  ventured  to  take  tfie  views  of  the 
scholar  ChHng  to  supply  it,  as  foliates: — The  meaning  of  the 
expression,  u  The  perfecting  of  knowledge  depends  on  the  inves- 
tigation of  things?  is  this:— %  fine  wish  to  carry  our  knowledge  to  the 
utmost,  we  must  investigate  ^principles  of  all  things  we  come  into 
contact  with)  for  the  intelligent  mind  of  man  is  certainly  formed 
to  know,  ana  there  is  not  a  single  tiling  in  which  its  principles 
do  not  inhere.  But  so  long  as  all  principles  are  not  investigated, 
maris  knowledge  is  incomplete.  On  this  account,  the  learn- 
ing for  Adults,  at  the  outset  of  its  lessons,  instructs  the  learner, 
in  regard  to  all  things  in  the  world,  to  proceed  from  what 
knowledge  lie  has  of  their  principles,  and  pursue  his  investiga- 


te Oh  tbb  imvsstioatiox  of  thokm,  and 

^^WnilB  KSOWLEDGB  TO  THE  UTMOST  EXTENT. 

L  This  is  said  by  one  of  the  ChHng  to  be  ffif 

X'  '*uperfluons  text.'  2.  Choo  He  considers 
W»  to  be  the  conclusion  of  a  chapter  which  is 
••*toit  Bat  we  hare  teen  that  the  two  sen* 


tences  come  in,  as  the  work  stands  in  the  Le-ke, 
at  the  conclusion  of  what  is  deemed  the  classical 
text.  It  is  not  necessary  to  add  anything  here 
to  what  has  been  said  there,  and  in  the  prolego- 
mena, on  the  new  dispositions  of  the  work  from 
the  time  of  the  Sung  scholars,  and  the  manner 
in  which  Choo  He  has  supplied  this  supposed 


230 


TIW  GREAT  LKAHXnrc. 


&  40ift  #  £  is  &  1  s  * 
mm  nr  £   £>w  i'j  ^  ^ 

<w?n  0/  fftim,  till  he  reaches  the  extreme  point.  After  exertinq 
himself  in  this  way  for  a  long  time,  he  will  suddenly  find  himself 
possessed  of  a  wide  and  far-reaching  penetration.  Then,  the 
qualities  of  all  things,  whether  external  or  internal,  the  subtle  or 
Vie  coarse,  will  all  be  appreltended,  and  the  mind,  in  its  entire 
sul)stance  and  its  relations  to  things,  mil  be  perfectly  intelligent 
This  is  called  the  investigation  of  things.  This  w  called  the  per- 
fection of  knowledge 

Chapter  VI.  1.  What  is  meant  by  "making  the  thoughts  sin- 
cere/9 is  the  allowing  no  self-deception,  as  when  we  hate  a  bad  smell, 
and  as  wlten  we  love  what  is  beautiful  This  is  called  self-enjoy- 
ment. Therefore,  the  superior  man  must  be  watchful  over  himself 
when  he  is  alone. 

2.  There  is  no  evil  to  which  the  mean  man,  dwelling  retired, 
will  not  proceed,  but  when  he  sees  a  superior  man,  he  instantly  tries 

6.    On  bayivo  thx  thoughts  sihcbrb.    1. 


The  sincerity  of  the  thoughts  obtains,  when  they 
move  without  effort  to  what  is  right  and  wrong, 
and,  in  order  to  this,  a  man  must  be  specialty  on  his 

guard  in  his  solitary  moments.     £l  Wt  it  taken 

at  if  it  were  ||jj  {f&^rcpooe  or  enjoyment  in 

one'i-telf.   fjj&,  ace  to  Choo  He,  is  in  the  up. 


4th  tone,  but  the  diet  make*  it  up.  W.     1  An 
enforcement  of  the  couctudrng  clause  in  the  kmt 

paragraph.    Jgfc  up.  2d  tone,  the  aame  aa  ^ 
meaning  |JSJ  j&L  0jj,  'the  appearance  of  aa* 

cealing.'  AMIRS'"" A ref€T,totfce*" 

perior  man  mentioned  aboTe,=*  the  other.*    Ft 
*M,  'him,'  and  mzvhmsefc  which  is  its  cta*» 


BUT*. 


THE   GREAT  LEARNING- 


231 


«=» » 


i^ « 


tf if 1^ 
:*  &  «  «  #MK 

P  £  *  £  0,  «■ 

as  Mo  mi  ft  tf  ^.-  ,,  „ 

* „  B  £  tf  Mr  £ 


W  _ 

H  M  3£ 

£>  fa  # 

JttE  US 


to  disguise  himself,  concealing  his  evil,  and  displaying  what  is  good. 
The  other  beholds  him,  as  if  he  saw  his  heart  and  reins ; — of  what 
use  is  his  disguise?  This  is  an  instance  of  the  saying — "  What  truly 
is  within  will  be  manifested  without."  Therefore,  the  superior  man: 
must  be  watchful  over  himself  when  he  is  alone. 

3.  The  disciple  Tsing  said,  "What  ten  eyes  behold,  what  ten 
hands  point  to,  is  to  be  regarded  with  reverence ! " 

4.  Riches  adorn  a  house,  and  virtue  adorns  the  person.  The 
mind  is  expanded,  and  the  body  is  at  ease.  Therefore,  the  superior 
man  must  make  his  thoughts  sincere. 

*  The  above  sixth  chapter  of  commentary  explains* making  tJie  ilwughts 
sincere. 

same  purport  as  the  two  preceding,  showing 
that  hypocrisy  is  of  no  use.  Compare  M  encius, 
VII.  Tt  I.  xxi.  4.  Ch'ing  Ktaig-shing  explains 
JJfe  (read  pumn)  by  ^,  Marge,'  and  Choo  He 

by  4jr  ffi,  as  in  the  transl.    The  meaning  is 

prooably  the  same. — It  is  only  the  first  of  these 
parr,  from  which  we  can  in  any  way  ascertain 
the  views  of  the  writer  on  making  the  thoughts 
sincere.  The  other  parr,  contain  only  illustra- 
tion or  enforcement.    Now  the  gist  of  the  1st 

par.  seems  to  be  in  jjjj:  &  ttjj,  'allowing  no 

self-deception.'  After  knowledge  has  been  car* 
ried  to  the  utmost,  this  remains  to  be  done,  and 
it  is  not  true  that,  when  knowledge  has  been 
completed,  the  thoughts  become  sincere.  This 
fact  overthrows  Choo  He's  interpretation  of  the 
vexed  passages  in  what  he  calls  the  text  of 
Confucius.  Let  the  student  examine  his  note 
appended  to  this  chapter,  and  he  will  see  that 
Choo  was  not  unconscious  of  this  piuch  of  the 

difflCttU^  Digitized  by  GoOgk 


mon  signification.  Jjjjj  fly,— lit.,  'the  lungs  and 
liver,'  but  with  the  meaning  which  we  attach 
to  the  expression  substituted  for  it  in  the  trans- 
lation. The  Chinese  make  the  lungs  the  seat 
of  righteousness,  and  the  liver  the  scat  of  bene- 
volence.    Compare  ^  ^f*  j=fc  ^  jQ  jj^ 

T|  in  the  Shoo-king,  IV.  vii.  Sect.  m.  3. 


(L  The  use  of  ^*  -3^  at  the  beginning  of  this 
paragraph  (and  extending,  perhaps,  over  to  the 
next)  should  suffice  to  show,  that  the  whole 
work  is  not  his,  as  assumed  by  Choo  He.  *Ten ' 
is  a  round  number,  put  for  many.  The  recent 
commentator,  Lo  Chung-fan,  refers  Ts&ng's  ex- 
pressions to  the  multitude  of  spiritual  beings, 
servants  of  Heaven  or  God,  who  dwell  in  the 
regions  of  the  air,  and  are  continually  beholding 
men's  cond.net.  But  they  are  probably  only  an 
emphatic  way  of  exhibiting  what  is  said  in  the 
preceding  paragraph.  4.  This  par.  is  commonly 
referred  to  Tsflng  Sin,  but  whether  correctly  so 
or  iiutwwtte  positively  aJtancd.    It  is  of  the 


232 


THB  OSXAT  LEABMXG. 


OOHM.  CSJ,1~ 


IE  W  M»5  fif  ^  # 

#«  £  #  %  m  z 

iE     f>f  *^-jE£#£ 

Chapter  VII.  1.  What  is  meant  by,  "The  cultivation  of the M 
son  depends  on  rectifying  the  mind/1  may  be  thus  iUv$traUd:—M 
man  be  under  the  influence  of  passion,  he  will  be  incorrect  in  i 
conduct  He  will  be  the  same,  if  he  is  under  the  influence  of  terro 
or  under  the  influence  of  fond  regard,  or  under  that  of  sorrow  an 
distress. 

2.  When  the  mind  is  not  present,  we  look  and  do  not  see;  we 
hear  and  do  not  understand;  we  eat  and  do  not  know  the  taste  of 
what  we  eat  • 

3.  This  is  what  is  meant  by  saying  that  the  cultivation  of  the  per- 
son depends  on  the  rectifying  of  the  tiiind. 

The  above  seventh  diopter  of  covwieritary  explains  rectifying  the  mind 
and  cultivating  the  person. 


7.    OH  FKBtOVAL  CCLTIVATIO*  AS  DETOCDBXT 
OH  THB  MJECTIPICATIOII  OP  THE  MUD.      1.    Here 

Choo  He,  following  hit  matter  Ching,  would 
again  alter  the  text,  and  change  the  second  A 

into  4^*  But  thii  *•  unnecessary.  The  Jfp  in 
^  Jfp  is  not  the  mere  material  body,  but  the 
person,  the  individual  man,  in  contact  with 
things,  and  intercourse  with  society,  and  the  2d 
par.  shows  that  the  eril  conduct  in  the  first  is  a 
consequence  of  the  mind's  not  being  under  con- 

l$3 ,  the  2d  term  rises  on  the  signification  of 
the  first,  and  intensifies  it    Thus,  jflj  is  called 


'a  bunt  of  eager,'  andsj£,  <  persistence  to 
anger,'  fe,  ftc.—I  hare  said  above  that  % 
here  is  not  the  material  bod/.  Lo  Chung-fin* 
howerer,  says  that  it  isr-^^0^  ^,c|f 

is  the  body  of  flesh.'  See  his  reasoning!,  si  K 
but  they  do  not  work  conviction  in  the  it***. 
*  4u>>^  ^  j§^>  this  seams  to  be  sea* 
in  point,  to  prove  that  we  cannot  tie  >^  inin* 
work  to  any  Tery  definite  application.  ** 
Chung-fan  insist*  that  it  is  'the  God-given  an- 

ro/ nature,'  but  4$^?C  ^  3  faeTik-^ 
lwhen  the  thoughts  are  otherwise 


Digitized  by " 


>8' 


THE  CHEAT  LEARNING. 


233 


W  T  ^MiM  ^  MM  f# 

Chapter  VIII.  1.  What  is  meant  by  "The  regulation  of  one's 
family  depends  on  the  cultivation  of  his  person,"  is  this:— Men  are 
partial  where  they  feel  affection  and  love;  partial  where  they  de- 
spise and  dislike;  partial  where  fhey  stand  in  awe  and  reverence;  par- 
tial where  they  feel  sorrow  and  compassion  ;  partial  where  they  are 
arrogant  and  rude.  Thus  it  is  that  there  are  few  men  in  the 
"world,  who  love,  and  at  the  same  time  know  the  bad  qualities  of 
the  object  of  their  love,  or  who  hate,  and  yet  know  the  excellences  of 
the  object  of  their  hatred. 

2.  Hence  it  is  said,  in  the  common  adage,  "  A  man  does  not 
know  the  wickedness  of  his  son ;  he  does  not  know  the  richness  of 
his  growing  corn." 

3.  This  is  what  is  meant  by  saying  that  if  the  person  be  not 
cultivated,  a  man  cannot  regulate  his  family. 


8.  The  necessity  op  cultivating  the  peb- 
ftok,  iv  order  to  the  regulation  op  the  fa* 
hilt.  The  lesson  here  it  evidently,  that  men  are 
continually  falling  into  error,  In  consequence 
«f  the  partiality  of  their  feelings  and  affections. 
How  this  error  affects  their  personal  cultiva- 
tion, and  interferes  with  the  regulating  of  their 
families,  is  not  specially  indicated.  1.  The  old 
interpreters  seem  to  go  far  astray  in  their  inter- 
pretation, Theytake^m^^j^ll 
^g,  and  the  other  clauses,  aa= jj&j ,  *  to  go  to,' 
And  JJS  as  synonymous  with  fiS,  'to  compare/ 
Ying-tft thus  expands  Ktong-shing on   A^  ^* 


that  man.  When  I  see  that  he  is  virtuous,  I  feel 
affection  for,  and  love  him.  I  ought  then  to 
turn  round  and  compare  him  with  myself. 
Since  he  is  virtuous  and  I  love  him,  then,  if  I 
cultivate  myself  and  be  virtuous,  I  shall  so  be 
able  in  like  manner  to  make  all  men  feel  affec- 
tion for  and  love  me/  In  a  similar  way  the 
other  clauses  are  dealt  with.  Choo  He  takes 
^  as=Jf^,  *  in  regard  to,'  and  Jjjfe  (readp'etA) 

a8='fj||,  'partial,1  *  one-sided/  Even  his  op- 
ponent, Lo  Chung-fan,  interprets  here  in  the 
same  way.  -ftS,  wS  *nd  the  other  combinations 
are  to  be  taken  as  if  there  were  a  jfjj,  'and/ 
between  them,  ^jk  is  here=^|£, '  proud/ 4  on- 
Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


234 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


coxm.    ca.il. 


7%^  oWtf  eighth  chapter  of  commentary  explains  cultivating  the 
person  and  regulating  the  family. 

Chapter  IX.  1.  What  is  meant  by  "In  order  rightly  to  govern 
his  State,  it  is  necessary  first  to  regulate  his  family,"  is  this: — It  k 
not  possible  for  one  to  teach  others,  while  he  cannot  teach  his  own 
family.  Therefore,  the  ruler,  without  going  beyond  his  family, 
completes  the  lessons  for  the  State.  There  is  filial  piety  : — there- 
with the  sovereign  should  be  served.  There  is  fraternal  submis- 
sion : — therewith  elders  and  superiors  should  be  served.  There  is 
kindness: — therewith  the  multitude  should  be  treated. 

2.  In  the  Announcement  to  K'ang,  it  is  said,  "Act  as  if  you  wore 
watching  over  an  infant."  If  a  mother  is  really  anxious  about  it, 
though  she  may  not  hit  exactly  tlie  wants  of  her  infant,  she  will  not 
be  far  from  doing  so.  There  never  has  been  a  girl  who  learned  to 
bring  up  a  child,  that  she  might  afterwards  marry. 

3.  From  the  loving  example  of  one  family,  a  whole  State  becomes 
loving,  and  from  its  courtesies,  the  whole  State  becomes  courteous, 


ciYuV    2.  ^.-'great,'  'tall;'  -gjjf  £  ^gf- 

4  the  tallness  (richness,  abundance)  of  his  grow- 
ing crop/  Farmers  were  noted,  it  would  ap- 
pear, in  China,  so  long  ago,  for  grumbling  about 
their  crops. 

9.  On  regulating  tub  family  as  the  means 

TO  THE  WELL-ORDERING  OF  THE  STATE.     1.  There 

is  here  implied  the  necessity  of  self -cultivation  to  the 
rule,  both  of  the  family  and  of'tlte  State,  and  that 


being  supposed  to  exist, — which  is  the  Janet  of  tfc 
■fcjT , — it  is  shown  how  the  virtues  that  seam  dm 
regulation  of  the  family,  have  their  correspomSsg 
virtues  in  the  wider  sphere  of  the  State.  S*  ^» 
has  here  both  the  moral  and  the  political  mean- 
ing; iti8iaB^S''51'<the  superior 
man  with  whom  is  the  government  of  the  stalk* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


nc. 


THE   GREAT  LEARNING. 


335 


#$&£#*  — 
ft  £  #f  frfc  3£  "f  H 

W  li  #\W  K  €  ^ 

*  w  ft  «  £>ft§ifc 

while,  from  the  ambition  and  perverseness  of  the  one  man,  the  whole 
State  may  be  led  to  rebellious  disorder ; — such  is  the  nature  of  the 
influence.  This  verifies  the  saying,  "  Affairs  may  be  ruined  by  a 
single  sentence ;  a  kingdom  may  be  settled  by  its  one  man." 

4.  Yaou  and  Shun  led  on  the  empire  with  benevolence,  and  the 
people  followed  them.  Kee  and  Chow  led  on  the  empire  with 
violence,  and  the  people  followed  them.  The  orders  which  these 
issued  were  contrary  to  the  practices  which  they  loved,  and  so  the 
people  did  not  follow  them.  On  this  account,  the  ruler  must  him- 
self be  possessed  of  the  good  qualities,  and  then  he  may  require 
them  in  the  people.  He  must  not  have  the  bad  qualities  in  himself, 
and  then  he  may  require  that  they  shall  not  be  in  the  people.  Never 
has  there  been  a  man,  who,  not  having  reference  to  his  own  character 
and  wishes  in  dealing  with  others,  was  able  effectually  to  instruct 
them. 

5.  Thus  we  see  how  the  government  of  the  State  depends  on  the 
regulation  of  the  family. 


It  being  once  suggested  to  Choo  He  that  yf\ 
pf  f£  8hould  be  yj^  jH  ;|£,  he  replied— jjfc 

impoujbility  of  that's  being  taught  is  just  my 
inability  to  teach.'  2.  See  the  Shoo-king,  V.  x. 
7.  Both  in  the  Shoo-king  and  here,  some  verb, 
like  act,  must  be  supplied.  This  par.  seems  de- 
signed to  show  that  the  ruler  must  be  carried  on 
to  kis  object  by  an  inward,  unconstrained,  feeling, 
Woe  Aat  of  the  mother  for  her  infant,    Lo  Chung' 

fan  insists  on  this  as  harmonizing  with 


'  to  lore  the  people,'  as  the  second  object  propos- 
ed in  the  Great  Learning.  8  How  certainly  and 
rapidly  the  influence  of  the  family  extend*  to  the 

State.  — »  55c  **  tne  one  f amiIv  °f  tne  ruler> 
and  —A  is  the  ruler.  — •  ^,='1,  the  one 
man,'  is  a  way  in  which  the  emperor  speaks  of 
himself;  see  Ana.  XX.  i.  6.  — •  ||f  = — »^j 


as  in  Ana.  II.  ii. 


w 


j, — comp.  Ana.  XIII.  xv. 

Digitized  by 


2S6 


aw 


THE  GBKAT  LSAfiHIHO. 

%  K  % 


com.  ou 


3£  2Tk^k 


£i£ 


J^  Jt  s 

2T»  A  T 

$11 


6.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "  That  peach  tree,  so  delicate 
and  elegant!  How  luxuriant  is  its  foliage!  This  girl  is  going  to 
her  husband's  house.  She  will  rightly  order  her  household."  Let 
the  household  be  rightly  ordered,  and  then  the  people  of  the  State 
toay  be  taught. 

7.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "They  can  discharge  their 
duties  to  their  elder  brothers.  They  can  discharge  their  duties  to 
their  younger  brothers/'  Let  the  rider  discharge  his  duties  to  his 
elder  and  younger  brothers,  and  then  he  may  teach  the  people  of 
the  State. 

8.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "  In  his  deportment  there  is 
nothing  wrong;  he  rectifies  aU  the  people  of  the  State.*  Yes;  when 
the  ruler,  as  a  father,  a  son,  and  a  brother,  is  a  model,  then  the  people 
imitate  him. 

9.  This  is  what  is  meant  by  saying,  "The  government  of  hi» 
kingdom  depends  on  his  regulation  of  the  family. 


reference  to  the  ^,  ^  (**{$)>  ]£«  ™  P«- 
1.  4.  An  iUmitration  qf  the  last  part  of  the  last 
paragraph.  But  from  the  example*  cited,  the 
sphere  of  influence  is  extended  from  the  State 
to  the  empire,  and  the  family,  moreover,  does 
not  intervene  between  the  empire  and  the  ruler. 
In  3£  fjf  &,  Zt£  must  be  understood  as 
referring  to  the  tyrants,  KcC  and  Chow.  Their 
orders  were  good,  but  unavailing,  in  consequence 

of  their  own  contrary  example.  §j|  «=  Jf£.  fjft 
WtSp.Ml', « what  is  kept  in  ones  own  person,1 
I  «.,  his  character  and  mind.  ^jj},— »ee  Ana. 
V.mijXV.UL    Ying-tt«eemstoUke>^^g 


as  rimply«'good.' 
Ode  VL  st  8.    ~ 


._     6.  See  the  She-king,  I.  L 

The  ode  celebrates  the  wfetf 

king  Win,  and  the  happy  influence  of  *•* 

family  government  ^"T'—jB:  "^T-  &* 
«5r*  is  feminine,  as  in  Ana,  V.  i.  jg,  'ffa 
home,'  a  term  for  marriage,  used  by  wwnsn,  7. 
See  the  She-king,  II.  ii.  Ode  VL  ft  3.  He* 
was  sung  at  entertainments,  when  die  mf*& 
feasted  the  princes.  It  celebrates  their  vta* 
8.  See  the  She-king,  L  xir.  Ode  ffl.  st  i  * 
celebrates,  ace  to  Choo  He,  the  praises  o£*& 
hzm-ttx*  or  ruler.  |^g, —not 'four***' 
but  the  four  quarters  of  the  state,  the  wfekrf 


it 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


THE  GBBAT  LEARNING. 


237 


I  £  IB  #  *  ffi  £  *Jftfr  # 
1  M  ®i  T\M  ®>&  %r>%     % 

\Mmm&MmmT\ 


The  above  ninth  chapter  of  commentary  explains  regulating  the 
family  and  governing  the  kingdom. 

Chapter  X.  1.  What  is  meant  by  "The  making  the  whole  em- 
pire peaceful  and  happy  depends  on  the  government  of  his  State,1' 
is  this : — When  the  sovereign  behaves  to  his  aged,  as  the  aged  should 
be  behaved  to,  the  people  become  filial ;  when  the  sovereign  behaves 
to  his  elders,  as  elders  should  be  behaved  to,  the  people  learn  bro- 
therly submission ;  when  the  sovereign  treats  compassionately  the 
young  and  helpless,  the  people  do  the  same.  Thus  the  ruler  nas  a 
principle  with  which,  as  witn  a  measuring  square,  he  may  regulate 
nis  conduct. 

2.  What  a  man  dislikes  in  his  superiors,  let  him  not  display  in 
the  treatment  of  his  inferiors ;  what  ne  dislikes  in  inferiors,  let  him 
not  display  in  the  service  of  his  superiors ;  what  he  hates  in  those 
who  are  before  him,  let  him  not  therewith  precede  those  who  are 
behind  him ;  what  he  hates  in  those  who  are  behind  him,  let  him 


10U     Off  TBB  WBLL-ORDEBJNO  OF  THE  STATE, 
AKT>  MAKING  THE  WHOLE  EMPIRE  PEACEFUL  AND 

BAPPT.    The  key  to  this  chapter  is  in  the  phrase 

jR  $&  *%L  5lt' tbe  PrinciPle  °*  reciprocity, 
the  doing  to  others  as  we  would  that  they 
•boold  do  to  us,  though  hero*  as  elsewhere,  it  is 
put  forth  negatively.    It  is  implied  in  the  ex- 

Etessioaoftfaelastch.-^|^^.^^ 

jjjg,  but  it  is  here  discussed  at  length,  and 

shown  in  its  highest  application.  The  following 
analysis  of  the  chapter  is  translated  freely  from 

**  PJ  §  $1  It-  :—<Thi*  <*•  e*Plain9  the 
well-ordering  of  the  State,  and  the  tranquilliza- 
tieu  of  the  empire.    The  greatest  stress  is  to 


be  laid  on  the  phrase — the  measuring  square.  That, 
and  the  expression  in  the  general  commentary 
—loving  and  hating  what  the  people  love  and  JtaU, 
and  not  thinkina  only  of  the  profit,  exhaust  the 
teaching  of  the  chap.  It  is  divided  into  five 
parts.  The  first,  embracing  the  two  first  para- 
graphs, teaches,  that  the  way  to  make  the  em- 
pire tranquil  and  happy  is  in  the  principle  of 
the  measuring  square.  The  second  part  embraces 
three  paragraphs,  and  teaches  that  the  appli- 
cation of  the  measuring  square  is  seen  in  loving, 
and  hating,  in  common  with  the  people.  The 
consequences  of  losing  and  gaining  are  mentioned 
for  the  first  time  in  the  4th  par.,  to  wind  up  the 
ch.  so  far,  showing  that  the  decree  of  Heaven 
goes  or  remains,  according  as  the  people's  hearts 
are  lost  or  gained.    The  third  part  embraces 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


238 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


com.  ctt.x» 


r»,l:3fc 


Til  ffj     ffif    *£r. 

Fp~  ill    EL  FP 
>-%  5ppb  /w  /£*> 


WW 


0£ 


Ti  M  ~&\  "&\ 

ZZB0. 


not  therewith  follow  those  who  are  before  him;  what  he  hates  to 
receive  on  the  right,  let  him  not  bestow  on  the  left ;  what  he  hates 
to  receive  on  the  left,  let  him  not  bestow  on  the  right : — this  is  what 
is  called  "The  principle,  with  which,  as  with  a  measuring  square,  to 
regulate  one's  conduct." 

3.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "  How  much  to  be  rejoiced 
in  are  these  princes,  the  parents  of  the  people!"  When  a  prince 
loves  what  the  people  love,  and  hates  what  the  people  hate,  men  is 
he  what  is  called  the  parent  of  the  people. 

4.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "  Lofty  is  that  southern 
hill,  with  its  rugged  masses  of  rocks !  Greatly  distinguished  are 
you,  0  flrrancJ-teacher  Yin,  the  people  all  look  up  to  you.n  Rulers 
of  kingdoms  may  not  neglect  to  be  careful.  If  they  deviate  to  a 
mean  selfishness,  they  will  be  a  disgrace  in  the  empire. 

eight  paragraphs,  and  teaches  that  the  most  im- 
portant result  of  loring  and  hating  in  common 
with  the  people  is  seen  in  making  the  root  the 
primary  subject,  and  the  branch  only  secondary. 
Here,  in  par.  11,  mention  is  again  made  of  oata- 
ing  and  losing,  illustrating  the  meaning  of  the 

S  notation  in  it,  and  showing  that  to  the  coUec- 
on  or  dissipation  of  the  people  the  decree  of 
Hearen  is  attached.  The  fourth  part  consists 
of  fire  paragraphs,  and  exhibits  the  extreme 
results  of  loving  and  hating,  as  shared  with 
the  people,  or  on  one's  own  private  feeling, 
and  It  has  special  reference  to  the  sovereign's 
employment  of  ministers,  because  there  is  no- 
thing in  the  principle  more  important  than  that. 
The  19th  par.  speaks  of  gaining  and  losing,  for 
the  third  time,  showing  that  from  the  4th  par. 
downwards,  in  reference  both  to  the  hearts  of 
the  people  and  the  decree  of  Heaven,  the  appli- 
cation or  non-application  of  the  principle  of  the 
meas*ring-9qnare  depends  en  the  Blind  of  the 


sovereign.  The  fifth  part  emferacee  the  other 
paragraphs.  Because  the  root  of  the  evil  of 
a  sovereign's  not  applying  that  principle,  lies  in 
his  not  knowing  how  wealth  is  produced,  and 
employs  mean  men  for  that  object,  the  distinc- 
tion between  righteousness  and  profit  is  bete 
much  insisted  on,  the  former  bringing  with  H 
all  advantages,  and  the  latter  leading  to  aU  evil 
consequences.  Thus  the  sovereign  is  admon- 
ished, and  it  is  seen  how  to  be  careful  of  his  vir- 
tue is  the  root  of  the  principle  of  the  meoMria*- 
aquare ;  and  his  loving  and  hating,  in  t  iwianni 
sympathy  with  the  people,  is  its  reality.* 

1.  There  is  here  no  progress  of  thought,  bat 
a  repetition  of  what  has  been  insisted  on  in  As 
two  last  chapters.  fr^^|£>jj|^|t  the  flat 
characters  are  verbs,  with  the  meaning  winch 
it  requires  so  many  words  to  bring  out  in  tbs 
translation* 

DigtTi??d  by"* 


*t*  &-?«v*j,'* 


TUB  GREAT  LEARNING. 


239 


%0M^¥  H.JNf*£ 


4^1 

5.  In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  "  Before  the  sovereigns  of 
he  Yin  dynasty  had  lost  the  hearts  of  the  people,  they  could  appear 
>efore  God.  Take  warning  from  ike  house  of  V in.  The  great  decree 
*  not  easily  preserved."  This  shows  that,  by  gaining  the  people,  the 
ingdom  is  gained,  and,  by  losing  the  people,  the  kingdom  is  lost. 

6.  On  this  account,  the  ruler  will  first  take  pains  about  his  own 
virtue.  Possessing  virtue  will  give  him  the  people.  Possessing  the 
>eople  will  give  him  the  territory.  Possessing  the  territory  will 
^ive  him  its  wealth.  Possessing  the  wealth,  he  will  have  resources 
or  expenditure. 

7.  Virtue  is  the  root ;  wealth  is  the  result. 

8.  If  he  make  the  root  his  secondary  object,  and  the  result  his 
primary,  he  will  only  wrangle  with  his  people,  and  teach  them 
•apine. 


herless ; '  here,—1  the  young  and  helpless.'  'fig, 
raul  as,  and«ll|K « to  rebel/ *  to  act  contrary  to/ 

^"■^•,  here  and  throughout  the  ch.,  has  refe- 
rence to  office,  and  specially  to  the  imperial  or 
highest.  $g  %&£.  5t|>—  %  *«  *  v*rb,  read 
to,  ace  to  Choo  He, «j§£, 4  to  measure  f  jfe— 
the  mechanical  instrument,  *  the  square.'  It  hav- 
ing been  seen  that  the  ruler's  example  is  so  influ- 
ential, it  follows  that  the  minds  of  all  men  are 
the  same  in  sympathy  and  tendency.  He  has 
then  only  to  take  his  own  mind,  and  measure 
therewith  the  minds  of  others.  If  he  act  ac- 
cordingly, the  grand  result — the  empire  tranquil 
and  happy — will  ensue.  2.  A  lengthened  deserip- 
ivmofthe  principle  of  reciprocity.  4q, — up.  8d 
tone,  'to  precede/  3.  See  the  She-king,  II.  ii. 
Ode  V.  at.  8.  The  ode  is  one  that  was  sung  at 
festivals,  and  celebrates  the  virtues    of   the 

princes  present.  Choo  He  makes  E^  (read 
^  up.  3d  tone)  an  expletive.  Ch'ing's  gloss,  in 


%  t&  it  ?&> tak<* st  **=!&>  **  *** 

whole  is — 4 1  gladden  these  princes,  the  parents 
of  the  people.'  4.  See  the  She-king,  II.  iv.  Ode 
VII.  st.  1.    The  ode  complains  of  the  emperor 

Yew  (tt|fl),  for  his  employing  unworthy  minis- 
ters, 'fifi,  read  Ul2e\  meaning  'rugged  and 
loftv-looking.'  j^=rffi..'all/  gfc  read  p'eik, 
as  in  ch.  viii  f%  is  explained  in  the  diet  by 
|§,  'disgrace/    Choo  He  seems  to  take  It  at 

=3j&  '  to  kill,'  as  did  the  old  commentators. 
They  say: — 'he  will  be  put  to  death  by  the 
people,  as  were  the  tyrants,  KeC  and|Chow/  5. 
See  the  She-king,  IIL  i.  Ode  I.  st.  6,  where  we 
have  3=£  ^  ^>  and  BS  for  |ttfe.  The  ode  is 

supposed  to  be  addressed  to  king  Suing  (fit  X 
to  stimulate  him  to  imitate  the  virtues  of  his 
grandfather  Wftn.  J&tt, ='  the  sovereigns  of  the 
Yin  dynasty.'    The  capital  of  the  Shang  dy- 


240 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


coo.  m>\ 


m&  m  mm  Ait  &% 


9.  Hence,  the  accumulation  of  wealth  is  the  way  to  scatter  tke 
people;  and  the  letting  it  be  scattered  among  them  is  the  wiyto 
collect  the  people. 

10.  Ana  hence,  the  ruler's  words  going  forth  contrary  to  right, 
will  come  back  to  him  in  the  same  way,  and  wealth,  gotten  by 
improper  ways,  will  take  its  departure  by  the  same. 

11.  In  the  Announcement  to  K'ang,  it  is  said,  "The  decree  in- 
deed may  not  always  rest  on  us  ;n  that  is,  goodness  obtains  the  decree, 
and  the  want  of  goodness  loses  it. 

12.  In  the  Book  of  Ts'oo,  it  is  said,  "The  kingdom  of  Tsty 
does  not  consider  that  to  be  valuable.  It  values,  instead,  its  good 
men." 

1400,  after  which  the  dynasty  was  so  denomi- 
nated.   j[l  _£.  iff**  acc«  *°  Choo  He,  means 

4  they  were  the  sorereigns  of  the  emperor,  and 
corresponded  to  (fronted)  God.'  Kiang-shing 
says : — *  Before  they  lost  their  people,  from  their 
virtue,  they  were  also  able  to  appear  before 
Heaven ;  that  is,  Heaven  accepted  their  sacri- 
fices.' Lo  Chung-fan  makes  it. — *They  har- 
monised with  God ;  that  it,  in  loving  the  people.' 
K'ang-shing's  interpretation  is,  1  apprehend, 

the  correct  one.    &[=*  t?»  a*  in  ch.  iii.  4.    6. 

$|^^K»— ^  here,  accord,  to  Choo  He,  is 
the  *  illustrious  virtue'  at  the  beginning  of  the 
book.  His  opponents  say  that  it  is  the  exhibi- 
tion of  virtue ;  that  is,  of  filial  piety,  brotherly 
submission,  &c    This  is  more  in  harmony  with 

the  first  par.  of  the  chapter.  8.  £U  and  fib 
are  used  as  verbs,*  ijffl,  ^f , « to  consider  slight,' 

4  to  consider  important.'  ^K,~<  ^  wan- 
gle the  (i.  «.,  with  the)  people.'  The  ruler  will 
be  trying  to  take,  and  the  people  will  be  trying 
to  hold.  J{|  j^,— 'he  will  give'— (i.  ^  lead 
the  people  to,=teach  them) — *  rapine.'  The  two 
phrasesashe  will  be  against  the  people,  and 
well  set  them  against  himself,  and  against  one 


another.  Ying-U  explains  them—4  people  i 
gling  for  gain  will  give  reins  to  thaur  rspa 
disposition.'  9.  p^1££,  health  being  scsttcred,' 
—that  is,  diffused,  and  allowed  to  be  so  by  1*j 
ruler,  among  the  people.  Tlie  coUectnM" 
scattering  of  the  people  are  to  be  undent** 
with  reference  to  their  feelings  towsrdf  tkaj 
ruler.    10.  The  *  words'  are  to  be  understood  sT 

governmental  orders  and  enactments,  t^1** 
pet,«^|,  *to  act  contrary  to,'  'to rebel,'  tW 
which  is  outraged  being  jj|,  'wbatiirigW*' 
in  the  first  place,  Jj^Xa^  '  ***  PeoPte%  ***** 
and,  in  the  second  place,  jg  J§,  4tatnW 
heart.'  Our  proverb—4  goods  Hl*ottea  go  & 
spent*  might  be  translated  by  j^fjrlfi  A 

diff.  meaning  in  the  text  11.  See  the  A*? 
Kaouy  p.  38.  The  only  difficulty  »  wftay- 
Kiang-shing  and  Ying-ti  do  not  tske  it  «  ■ 
expletive,  but  say  it*  jf^,  4in,'  or  'on;'-'** 
appointment  of  Heaven  may  not  constantly  "* 
on  one  family.'    Treating  ^p  in  this  wsy,  *• 

■nftnlomont  in   tha     8hoO*)tinSj  SbOUW  P*    ^ 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING; 


241 


%£  A 


Pit  ^o  u 

M  4fi  *E 

^^ 

^^ 

i&   ~  fc 

13,  Duke  Wans  uncle,  Fan,  said,  "  Our  fugitive  does  not  account 
hat  to  be  precious.  What  he  considers  precious,  is  the  affection 
ue  to  his  parent." 

14.  In  the  Declaration  of  the  duke  of  Ts'in,  it  is  said,  "Let  me 
lavebut  one  minister,  plain  andsincere,  not  pretending  to  other  abilities, 
>ut  with  a  simple,  upright,  mind;  and  possessed  of  generosity,  regard" 
rig  the  talents  of  others  as  though  he  himself  possessed  them,  and, 
rhere  he  finds  accomplished  and  perspicacious  men,  loving  them  in 
lis  heart  more  than  his  mouth  expresses,  and  really  showing  him- 
elf  able  to  bear  them  and  employ  them : — such  a  minister  will  be 
ible  to  preserve  my  sons  and  grandsons,  and  black-haired  people, 
ind  benefits  likewise  to  the  kingdom  may  well  be  looked  for  from 
lim.  But  if  it  be  his  character,  when  he  finds  men  of  ability,  to  be 
ealous  and  hate  them;  and,  when  he  finds  accomplished  and  per- 
»picacious  men,  to  oppose  them  and  not  allow  their  advancement, 
ihowing  himself  really  not  able  to  bear  them : — such  a  minister 

j|j\  as  in  p,  5.  12.   The  Book  of  Ts'oo  is  found 


B  the  EH  g£  'National  records/  a  collection 

purporting  to  be  of  the  Chow  dynasty,  and,  in 
Ration  to  the  other  states,  what  Confucius' 
Spring  and  Autumn'  is  to  Loo.  The  exact 
fords  of  the  text  do  not  occur,  but  they  could 
wsily  be  constructed  from  the  narrative.  An 
officer  of  Ts'oo  being  sent  on  an  embassy  to 

Tiki  (  |=]  )•  the  minister  who  received  him  asked 

■bout  a  famous  girdle  of  Ts'oo,  called  £|  ^J, 
few  much  it  was  worth.  The  officer  replied 
■bat  his  country  did  not  look  on  such  things  as 


its  treasures,  but  on  its  able  and  virtuous  min- 
isters. 18.  la  4R»  *  uncle  Fan ;'  that  is,  uncle 
to  Wan,  the  duke  of  Ts'in.  See  Ana.  XIV.  xvi. 
Wan  is  the  ~[V  K  ,  or,  *  fugitive.'  In  the  early 

part  of  his  life,  he  was  a  fugitive,  and  suffered 
many  vicissitudes  of  fortune.    Once,  the  duke 

of  Ts'in  (S£)  having  offered  to  help  him,  when 

he  was  in  mourning  for  his  father  who  had  ex* 
pelled  him,  to  recover  Tsin,  his  uncle  Fan  gave 
the  reply  in  the  text.  The  that  in  the  transla- 
tion refers  to  ^  B| ,  *  getting  the  kingdom/  14, 
4  The  declaration  of  the  duke  of  Ts'in'  is  the  last 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


242 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


COXK.    CB.X. 


±®  A 


Iff. 
fit  %  % 


M  I 


A 18* 


A»  3&  s&>  hI 

BE 


£&« 


will  not  be  able  to  protect  my  sons  and  grandsons  and  black-haired 
people;  and  may  he  not  also  be  pronounced  dangerous  to  the  State?" 

15.  It  is  only  the  truly  virtuous  man,  who  can  send  away  such 
a  man  and  banish  him,  driving  him  out  among  the  barbarous  tribes 
around,  determined  not  to  dwell  along  with  him  in  the  Middle 
kingdom.  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  saying,  "  It  is  only  the 
truly  virtuous  man  who  can  love  or  who  can  hate  others." 

16.  To  see  men  of  worth  and  not  be  able  to  raise  them  to  office; 
to  raise  them  to  office,  but  not  to  do  so  quickly : — this  is  disrespect- 
ful. To  see  bad  men  and  not  be  able  to  remove  them ;  to  remove 
them,  but  not  to  do  so  to  a  distance : — this  is  weakness. 

17.  To  love  those  whom  men  hate,  and  to  hate  those  whom  men 
love ; — this  is  to  outrage  the  natural  feeling  of  men.  Calamities 
cannot  fail  to  come  down  on  him  who  does  so. 

18.  Thus  we  see  that  the  sovereign  has  a  great  course  to  pursue. 
He  must  show  entire  self-devotion  and  sincerity  to  attain  it,  and  by 
pride  and  extravagance  lie  will  fail  of  it. 

book  in  the  Shoo-king.    It  was  made  by  one  of  '  preceding.    In  "fefr  »5jfe  X*,  3^  refers  to  the 
the  dukes  of  Tsin  to  his  officers,  after  lie  had  ;  ****  vlu  -s—    *w 

-        ■  bad  minister,  there  described.    The  l/lf  S?. 

1  four  E;'  see  the  Le-ke,  III.  iii.  14.    ">K  ft[ 


sustained  a  great  disaster,  in  consequence  of  ne- 
glecting the  advice  of  his  most  faithful  minister. 
Between  the  text  here,  and  that  which  we  find 
hi  the  Shoo-king,  there  are  some  differences, 

but  they  are  unimportant.    15.  f"t  A.  is  here, 

ace.  to  Choo  He  and  his  followers,  the  prince 
who  applies  the  principle  of  reciprocity,  ex- 
pounded in  the  second  par.  Ix>  Chung-fan  con- 
tends that  it  is  SB  f£  ^*,  'the  lover  of  the 
ptople.'    The  par.  is  closely  connected  with  the  I 


not  dwell  together  with  him  in  the  Middle  king* 
dom.'  China  is  evidently  so  denominated,  from 
its  being  thought  to  be  surrounded  by  baiter- 
ous  tribes.  fj££;  Alls  :ZT  T^"""*56  ABt* 
IV.  iii.    16.  I  have  translated  j»  as  if  it  vos 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


en.  x. 


4»H 


THE   GREAT  LEARNING. 


243 


BMfe 


;*  ts  Z,  £  ^ 

*i^  mi  tk± 


19.  There  is  a  great  course  also  for  the  production  of  wealth. 
Let  the  producers  be  many  and  the  consumers  few.  Let  there  be 
activity  in  the  production,  and  economy  in  the  expenditure.  Then 
the  wealth  will  always  be  sufficient. 

20.  The  virtuous  ruler,  by  means  of  his  wealth,  makes  himself 
more  distinguished.  The  vicious  ruler  accumulates  wealth,  at  the 
expense  of  his  life. 

21.  Never  has  there  been  a  case  of  the  sovereign  loving  benevo- 
lence, and  the  people  not  loving  righteousness.  Never  has  there  been 
a  case  where  the  people  have  loved  righteousness,  and  the  affairs 
of  the  sovereign  have  not  been  carried  to  completion.  And  never 
has  there  been  a  case  where  the  wealth  in  such  a  State,  collected  in 
the  treasuries  and  arsenals,  did  not  continue  in  the  sovereigns 
possession. 

22.  The  officer  MSng  Heen  said,  "  He  who  keeps  horses  and 
a  carriage  does  not  look  after  fowls  and  pigs.     The  family  which 


Mg,  which  K'ang-shing  thinks  should  bo  in  tho 

text    ChHng  E  (|§|)  would  substitute  Jg£, 

'idle,'  instead  of  All,  and  Clioo  He  does  not 
know  which  suggestion  to  prefer.  Lo  Chung- 
fan  stoutly  contends  for  retaining  -gff,  and  in- 
terprets it  asae'fate,'  but  he  is  obliged  to  sup- 
ply a  good  deal  himself,  to  make  any  sense  of 
the  passage.    See  his  argument,  in  loc.    The 

paraphrasta  all  explain  -fa  by  JBL,  'early/ 
jg,  up  3d  tone,  but  with  a  hiphil  force.  ;j|| 
is  referred  to  j£  J^jg  in  last  par.,  and  jfijf  to 


ruler  not  having  respect  to  the  common  feelings 
of  the  people  in  his  employment  of  ministers, 

and  the  consequences  thereof  to  himself,  ^fc, 
low.  1st  tone,  is  used  as  in  Ana.  XI.  ix.  4,  om 
the  prep.  -3^.  This  par.  speaks  generally  of  the 
primal  cause  of  gaining  and  losing,  and  sJiows  how 
the  principle  of  the  measuring  square  mvst  have  its 
root  in  the  ruler's  mind.  So,  in  the  FT  gag.    The 

great  course  is  explained  by  Choo  He  as — *  the 
art  of  occupying  the  throne,  and  therein  culti- 
vating himself  and  governing  others.'  Yimz-t* 
says  it  is — *  the  course  by  which  he  practises  filial 
piety,  fraternal  duty,  benevolence,  and  right- 
eousness/   £§f  and  ife  are  here  qualities  of  the 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


244 


THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


COlOf.    CM.* 


keeps  its  stores  of  ice  does  not  rear  cattle  or  sheep.  So,  the  house 
which  possesses  a  hundred  chariots  should  not  keep  a  minister  to 
look  out  for  imposts  that  he  may  lay  them  ou  the  people.  Than  to 
have  such  a  minister,  it  were  better  for  that  house  to  have  one  who 
should  rob  it  of  its  revenues"  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  saying: 
— "  In  a  State,  pecuniary  gain  is  not  to  be  considered  to  be  pros- 
perity, but  its  prosperity  will  be  found  in  righteousness." 

23.  When  he  who  presides  over  a  State  or  a  family  makes  his 
revenues  his  chief  business,  he  must  be  under  the  influence  of  some 
small,  mean,  man.  He  may  consider  this  man  to  be  good;  but  when 
such  a  person  is  employed  in  the  administration  of  a  State  or  family, 
calamities  from  Heaven,  and  injuries  from  men,  will  befal  it  together, 
and,  though  a  good  man  may  take  his  place,  he  will  not  be  able  to 
remedy  the  eviL  This  illustrates  again  the  saying,  "  In  a  State,  gain 
is  not  to  be  considered  prosperity,  but  its  prosperity  will  be  found 


in  righteousness." 

same  nature.  They  are  not  contrasted  as  in 
Ana.  XIII.  xxvi.  19.  This  is  understood  by 
K'ang-shing  as  requiring  the  promotion  of  agri- 
culture, and  that  is  included,  but  does  not  ex- 
haust the  meaning.  The  consumers  are  the 
salaried  officers  of  the  government.  The  senti- 
ment of  the  whole  is  good; — where  there  is 
cheerful  industry  in  the  people,  and  an  economi- 
cal administration  of  the  government,  the  finan- 
ces will  be  flourishing.*  20.  The  sentiment  here 
is  substantially  the  same  as  in  parr.  7,  8.  The 
old  interpretation  is  different:— *  The  virtuous 
man  uses  his  wealth  so  as  to  make  his  person 
distinguished.  He  who  is  not  virtuous,  toils 
with  his  body  to  increase  his  wealth.*  21.  This 
shows  how  the  people  respond  to  the  influence 
of  the  ruler,  and  that  benevolence,  even  to  the 
scattering  of  his  wealth  on  the  part  of  the  latter, 
is  the  way  to  permanent  prosperity  and  wealth. 
22.  Heen  was  the  hon.  epithet  of  Chung-sun 
M&  ( j§£ ),  a  worthy  minister  of  Loo,  under  the 


two  dukes,  who  ruled  before  the  birth  of  Con- 
fucius. His  sayings,  quoted  here,  were  pre- 
served by  tradition,  or  recorded  in  some  work 

which  is  now  lost.  &  (read  kSh)  j3fr  Jfe»— 
on  a  scholar's  being  first  called  to  office,  he  was 
gifted  by  his  prince  with  a  carriage,  and  foor 
horses.  He  was  then  supposed  to  withdraw 
from  petty  ways  of  getting  wealth.  The  Hf, 
or  high  officers  of  a  State,  kept  ice  for  use  in 
their  funeral  rites  and  sacrifices,  ^fe  WC>~~ 
with  reference  to  the  cutting  the  ice  to  store  it. 
^jH^gL— <*Ana.XI.xvi    «»•  # 

3§  #  £'-#  ta  ^  "  *  Terb,= #  % 
ife,  'considers  to  be  good.'    yK  £££  jfij  & 

5fl|.  J#  %  %  ffl,-«*  Mendus.  L  Ft  L  i, 

et  passim. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


!H.  X. 


THE   GREAT  LEARNING. 


245 


;£  fif  |E  f£k  ^>  Hf>  ^>  IP 

~zzr       f>   ufifci    nT    ^fr~*    ^s3n   -rrf 


4, 


ML 


mi 


m 


Tlte  above  tenth  chapter  of  commentary  explains  the  government  of 
tlie  State,  and  the  making  the  empire  peaceful  and  happy. 
There  are  thus,  in  all,  ten  chapters  of  commentary,  the  first  four 
of  which  discuss,  in  a  general  manner,  the  scope  of  the  principal 
topic  of  the  Work ;  while  the  other  six  go  particularly  into  an 
exhibition  of  the  work  required  in  its  subordinate  branches.  The 
fifth  chapter  contains  the  important  subject  of  comprehending 
true  excellence,  and  the  sixth,  what  is  the  foundation  of  the  attain- 
ment  of  true  sincerity.  Those  two  chapters  demand  the  especial 
attention  of  the  learner.  Let  not  the  reader  despise  them  because 
of  tlieir  simplicity. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


246 


^ 


TIIE  DOCTRIXE  OF  TIIE  MEAN'. 

J/y  master y  the  philosopher  ChHng,  says,  u  Being  without  incUna- 
tion  to  either  side  is  called  chung  ;  admitting  of  no  change  is 
called  yung.  By  chung  is  denoted  the  correct  course  to  be  pur- 
sued  by  all  under  heaven ;  by  yung  is  denoted  the  jured  principle 
regulating  all  under  heaven.  This  work  contains  the  law  of  the 
mind,  which  was  handed  down  from  one  to  anotlier,  in  the  Con- 
fucian school,  till  Tsze-sze,  fearing  lest  in  the  course  of  time 
errors  should  arise  about  it,  committed  it  to  writing,  and  delivered 
it  to  Mencius.  The  booh  first  speaks  of  one  principle;  it  next 
spreads  this  out,  and  embraces  all  things;  finally,  it  returns  and 
gathers  them  all  up  under  the  one  principle.     Unroll  it,  and  it 


Ths  titlb  or  thb  work.— (fa  Eljf,  'The 
doctrine  of  the  Mean.9  I  have  not  attempted 
to  translate  the  Chinese  character  fitf ,  as  to 
the  exact  force  of  which  there  is  considerable 
difference  of  opinion,  both  among  native  com- 
mentators, and  among   previous    translators. 

Ching  K'ang-shing  said:-ig  Q  pjjjjg1  ^, 

is  named  ptj  Iff,  because  it  records  the  practice 
of  the  non-deviating  mind  and  of  harmony.' 
He  takes  Iff ,  in  the  sense  of  ffl,  '  to  use,' 
'  to  employ,'  which  is  the  first  given  to  it  in  the 
diet.,  and  is  found  in  the  Shoo-king,  I.  p.  9.  As 
to  the  meaning  of  Ppf ,  and  4Jp,  see  ch.  i.  p.  4. 
This  appears  to  have  been  the  accepted  meaning 


of  Iff,  in  this  combination,  till  ChHng  £  intro- 
duced that  of  yj\  Mjy  'unchanging,'  as  in  the 

introductory  note,  which,  however,  the  Act. 
does  not  acknowledge.    Choo  He  himself  aays 

for  what  is  without  inclination  or  deflection, 
which  neither  exceeds  nor  comes  short.  Ymng 
means  ordinary,  constant.'  The  diet,  gives 
another  meaning  of  Yung,  with  special  refer- 
ence to  the  point  before  us.    It  is  said— ^^ 

5ftj  •ffc»  'I*  also  means  harmony;'  and  then 
reference  is  made  to  K'ang-shing's  words  given 
above,  the  compilers  not  having  observed  that 
he  immediately  subjoins— Bf,  m  4JL, 

Digitized  by  VjO"^  ** 


H.I. 


*THE   DOCTRINE   OF  THE  MEAN. 


247 


m  n.  fel 

e£  ^"BG  H  *t  *P  ^  £,£> 


fills  the  universe;  roll  it  up,  ami  it  retires  and  lies  hid  in  mysteri- 
ousness.  The  relish  of  it  is  inexliaustible.  The  whole  of  it  is 
solid  learning.  When  tlte  skilful  reader  has  explored  it  with  de- 
light till  he  has  appreliended  it,  he  may  carry  it  into  practice  all 
Jus  life,  and  will  find  that  it  cannot  be  exhausted. 

Chapter  I.  1.  What  Heaven  has  conferred  is  called  the  nature; 
an  accordance  with  this  nature  is  called  the  path  of  duty ;  the  re- 
gulation of  this  path  is  called  instruction. 


ing  that  he  takes  Yung,  in  the  tense  of  'to 
employ,*  and  not  of  'harmony.'  Many,  however, 
adopt  thin  meaning  of  the  term  in  ch.  ii,  and  ray 
own  opinion  is  decidedly  in  favour  of  it,  here 
in  the  title.  The  work  then  treats  of  the 
human  mind : — in  its  state  of  chung,  absolutely 
correct,  as  it  is  in  itself;  and  in  its  State  of  htoo, 
or  harmony,  acting  ad  extra,  according  to  its 
correct  nature. — In  the  version  of  the  work, 

?iven  in  the  collection  of  '  Memoires  concernant 
histoire,  les  science*,  $v.,  des  Chinois,'  vol.  I,  it  is 
styled—*  Juste  Milieu.'  Rcmusat  calls  it  ' /,**«- 
variaMc  Milieu,'  after  Ch*ing  E.  Intorcetta,  and 
his  coadjutors  call  it — '  Medium  constant  vei 
viapiternum.'  The  book  treats,  they  say,  *De 
medio  8KMPITEKNO,  give  de  aurta  mediocritate  ilia, 
$m  est,  ut  ait  Cicero,  inter  nimiuin  et  parum, 
amstanter  et  omnibus  in  rebus  tenenda,'  Morrison, 

character  fclf ,   says, '  Chung  Yung,  the  constant 

(golden)  medium.*  Collie  calls  it—4  The  golden 
fcedittm.'  The  objection  which  I  have  to  all 
'these  names  is,  that  from  them  it  would  appear 

as  if  m  were  a  noun,  and  J&  a  qualifying 

adjective,  whereas  they  are  co-ordinate  terms. 

INTRODUCTORY  XOTE.      -5^  3S  -5^, — SCO  On 

intro.  note  to  the  p^  j§§£.  On  Tszc-sze,  and 
nis  authorship  of  this  work,  see  the  prole- 
gomena, -y^  -^  is  a  phrase  denoting — '  hea- 
ven, earth,  and  the  four  cardinal  point s/*=  the 
universe.  5^=j|§^|y- not  our  •  good  reader,' 
tat  as  in  the  trauaiatian.— I  will  not  here  anti- 


cipate the  judgment  of  the  reader  on  the  eulogy 
of  the  enthusiastic  ChHng. 

1.  It  has  been  stated,  in  the  prolegomena,  that 
the  current  division  of  the  Chung  Yung  into 
chapters  was  made  by  Choo  He,  as  well  as  their 
subdivision  into  paragraphs.  The  83  chapters, 
which  embrace  the  work,  are  again  arranged 
by  him  in  five  divisions,  as  will  be  seen  from 
his  supplementary  notes.  The  first  and  last 
chapters  are  complete  in  themselves,  as  the  in- 
troduction and  conclusion  of  the  treatise.  The 
second  part  contains  ten  chapters;  the  third, 
nine,  and  the  fourth,  twelve. 

Par.  1.  The  principles  of  duty  have  their  root  in 
the  evidenced  will  of  Heaven,  ana  their  full  exhibi- 
tion in  the  teaching  of  sages.  By  yp,  or  'nature,9 
is  to  be  understood  the  nature  of  man,  though 
Choo  He  generalizes  it  so  as  to  embrace  that  of 
brutes  also ;  but  only  man  can  be  cognisant  of 

the  taou  and  keaou.  -jjjj  he  defines  by  ^,  'to 
command,'  *  to  order.*  But  we  mnst  take  it  as 
in  a  gloss  on  a  pass,  from  the  Yih-king,  quoted 

in  the  diet.— ^Jj  ^j*  A  ft?  HI  §€'  *  *f(M9 
is  what  men  are  endowed  with.'  Choo  He  also 
says  that  'tt:  is  just  j|!,  the  'principle,'  char- 
acteristic of  any  particular  nature.  But  this 
only  involves  the  subject  in  mystery.  His  ex- 
planation of  0|[  by  {g§,  'a  path,'  seems  to  be 
correct,  though  some  modern  writers  object  to 
it.— What  is  taught  seems  to  be  this :— To  man 
belongs  a  moral  nature,  conferred  on  him  by 
Heaven  «r  God,  by  which  ^^gQH^e 


248 


THE  DOCTMNE   OF  THE  MEAN. 


con. 


t  m  £  &>m  *  ¥  ¥  &># 

*  ******  31  «0ftt*. 

2.  The  path  may  not  be  left  for  an  instant.  If  it  could  be  left,  it 
would  not  be  the  path.  On  this  account,  the  superior  man  does  not 
wait  till  he  sees  things,  to  be  cautious,  nor  till  he  hears  things,  to  be 
apprehensive. 

3.  There  is  nothing  more  visible  than  what  is  secret,  and  nothing 
more  manifest  than  what  is  minute.  Therefore  the  superior  man  is 
watchful  over  himself,  when  he  is  alone. 

4.  While  there  are  no  stirrings  of  pleasure,  anger,  sorrow,  or  joy, 
the  mind  may  be  said  to  be  in  the  state  of  equilibrium.  When 
those  feelings  have  been  stirred,  and  they  act  in  their  due  decree, 
there  ensues  what  may  be  called  the  state  of  harmony.  This 
equilibrium  is  the  great  root  from  which  grow  all  the  human  actings 
in  the  world,  and  this  harmony  is  the  universal  path  which  they  all 
should  pursue. 


law  to  himself.  Bat  as  he  is  prone  to  deriate 
from  the  path  in  which,  according  to  his  nature, 
he  should  go,  wise  and  good  men — sages — have 
appeared,  to  explain  and  regulate  this,  helping 
all  by  their  instructions  to  walk  in  it. 

Par.  2.     The  path  indicated  by  the  nature  may 

never  be  left,  and  the  superior  man— §9  «f|[  j£ 

^^,  he  who  woidd  embody  all  principles  of  right 

and  duty — exercises  a  most  sedulous  care  that  he 

may  attain  thereto.    £&  £fr   is  a  name  for  a 

short  period  of  time,  of  which  there  are  80  in 
the  24  hours;  but  the  phrase  is  commonly  used 
for  *a  moment,'  'an  instant.'    K*ung  Ying-ti 

explains  |5[  g}0  0  *j|\— 'what  may  be  left, 
is  a  wrong  way,'  which  is  not  admissible.  Sjjft, 
low.  8d  tone,= Jl,  'to  be,  or  go,  away  from.* 

If  we  translate  the  two  last  clauses  literally, — 
•is  cautious  and  careful  in  regard  to  what  he 
does  not  see ;  is  fearful  and  apprehensive  in  re- 
gard to  what  he  does  not  hear, — they  will  not  be 
intelligible  to  an  English  reader.    A  question 

arises,  moreover,  whether  l|£  Jjff  Jfi  ^|, 


j£  jSfr  jK  VjR,  ought  not  to  be  understood 
passively,-*' where  he  is  not  seen,'  'where  he  is 
not  heard.'   They  are  so  understood  by  Ying-tf, 

and  the  ^iffitfl,  ch.  vi.,  is  much  in  favour, 
by  its  analogy,  of  such  an  interpretation. 

Par.  8.  Choo  He  says  that  |§  is  *a  dark 
place;'  that  &]J  means  'small  matters;'  and 

that  jjB  is  'the  place  which  other  men  do 
not  know,  and  is  known  only  to  ane's-sehV 
There  would  thus  hardly  be  here  any  advance 
from  the  last  par.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  se- 
crecy must  be  in  the  recesses  of  one's  own  heart, 
and  the  minute  things,  the  springs  of  thought 
and  stirrings  of  purpose  there.  The  full  deve- 
lopment of  what  is  intended  here  is  probably  to 
be  found  in  all  the  subsequent  passages  about 

ft  or  'sincerity/    Seeg^^^ljj 

Par.  A.  'This,' says  Choo  He,  'speaks  of  the 
virtue  of  the  nature  and  passions,  to  illustrate 
the  meaning  of  the  statement  that  the  path  may 
not  be  left.1    It  i*  difficult  to  translate  the  par. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


ttt 


THB  DOCTBINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


249 


W  3^  *  M  E*  ^  flfe.  5c 


5.  Let  the  states  of  equilibrium  and  harmony  exist  in  perfection, 
and  a  happy  order  will  prevail  throughout  heaven  and  earth,  and  all 
things  will  be  nourished  and  flourish. 

In  the  first  chapter  which  is  given  above,  Tsze-sze  states  the  views 
which  had  been  handed  down  to  him,  as  the  basis  of  his  discourse. 
First,  it  shotos  clearly  how  the  path  of  duty  is.  to  be  traced  to  its 
origin  in  Heaven,  and  is  unchangeable,  while  the  substance  of  it 
is  provided  in  ourselves,  and  may  not  be  departed  from.  Next, 
it  speaks  of  the  importance  of  preserving  and  nourishing  this,  and 
of  exercising  a  watchful  self -scrutiny  with  reference  to  it.  Fi- 
nally, it  speaks  of  the  meritorious  achievements  and  transforming 
influence  of  sage  and  spiritual  men  in  their  highest  extent.  The 
wish  of  Tsze-sze  was  that  hereby  the  learner  should  direct  his 
thoughts  inwards,  and  by  searching  in  himself,  there  find  these 


became  it  is  difficult  to  understand  It 


is  different  from 


in  p  1.   That  defines; 


this  describes.  What  is  described  in  the  first 
ctase,  seems  to  be  fflfc  'the  nature,*  capable  of 
til  feelings,  but  unacted  on,  and  in  equilibrium. 
Par.  5.  On  this  Intorcetta  and  his  colleagues 
observe : — *  Qrtis  non  videt  eo  dumtaxat  collimasse 
pMtosophuM,  ut  hominis  mtturam,  quam  ab  origine 
wa  rectasi,  sed  deinde  lapsam  et  depravatam  passim 
Sinenses  docent,  adprvnavum  mnocenticestatumre' 
dsceret  Atque  ita  reliquas  res  creatas,  hominijam 
reblles,  et  in  ejusdem  ruinam  armatas,  adpristuium 
ehesMivm  veJuti  revocaret.  Hocf.  L  s.  L  libri  Ta 
Ha,  hoc  item  hie  et  alibi  non  oemel  indicat.  Ktsi 
Wm  npcint  philwoptm*-  W*  a  prima  felicitate 


propter  peccatumprimi parentis  excidisse^  tamen  et  tot 
rerum  quiz  adversantur  et  injestoe  sunt  homini,  et  ipsi" 
us nattirat  humana  addetenora  tam  promt,  kngo  usu 
et  contemplatione  didicisse  videtur,  non  posse  hoc  uni- 
versuntj  quod  homo  vitiatus  quodam  modo  yitiara^ 
connaturali  sua  intearitati  et  ordini  restitui,  nisi 
prius  ipse  homo  per  victoriam  sui  ipsius,  earn,  quam 
amiserat,  integritatem  et  ordinem  reeuperaret.*  I 
fancied  something  of  the  same  kind,  before 
reading  their  note.  Ace.  to  Choo  He,  the  par. 
describes  the  work  and  influence  of  sage  and 
spiritual  men  in  their  highest  issues.  The  sub- 
ject is  developed  in  the  4th  part  of  the  work, 
in  very  extravagant  and  mystical  language. 
The  stndy  of  it  will  modify  very  much  our  as- 
sent to  the  views  in  the  above  passage.  There 
i»  in,tui*  whole  chapter  a  mixture  of  sense  ang. 


250 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE   MJEAN. 


OLD. 


J*h\ 


Aft  ffit  31  M: 
M  *.  ®igt     =f  £  #f 

7j*^     jfiL     jCmm 


@  >J>  f 

fAif, 

+  *  Jt» 


in 


truths,  so  that  he  might  put  aside  all  outward  temptations  appeal- 
ing  to  his  selfishness,  and  Jill  up  the  measure  of  the  goodness 
which  Li  natural  to  him.  This  chapter  is  what  the  writer  Yang 
called  it, — "  The  sum  of  tlve  whole  work.1'  In  the  ten  chapters 
which  follow,  Tsze-sze  quotes  the  words  of  the  Master  to  complete 
t/ie  meaning  of  this. 

Chapter  II.  1.  Chung-He  said,  "The  superior  man  embodies  the 
course  of  the  Mean ;  the  mean  man  acts  contrary  to  the  course  of 
the  Mean. 

2.  "  The  superior  man's  embodying  the  course  of  the  Mean  is 
because  he  is  a  superior  man,  and  so  always  maintains  the  Mean.  The 
mean  man's  acting  contrary  to  the  course  of  the  Mean  is  because  he 
is  a  mean  man,  and  has  no  caution." 

mysticism, — of  what  may  be  grasped,  and  what 
tantalizes  and  eludes  the  mind.     4£ft  ace.  to 

Choo  He,=»  ^£  lt£  >(£,  'will  rest  in  their 
positions.'    K'ang-shing  explained  it  by  JP, 

— *  will  be  rectified.'  *  Heaven  and  Earth'  are 
here  the  parent  powers  of  the  universe.  Thus 
Ying-tt  expounds: — 'Heaven  and  Earth  will 
get  their  correct  place,  and  the  processes  of  pro- 
duction  and  completion  will  go  on  according  to 
their  principles,  so  that  all  things  will  be  nour- 
ished and  fostered.' 

Concluding  note.  The  writer  Yang,  quoted 
here,  was  a  distinguished  scholar  and  author  in 
the  reign  of  jfc  £|£,  A.  D.  1064-1085.  He 
was  a  disciple  of  Ch'ing  Haou,  and  a  friend 


both  of  him  and  his  brother,  E. 
substance  and  the  abfltract,'sthe  sum, 

2.  oxlt  the  superior  hah  can  follow 
tub  Mean  ;  the  mean  is  always  violating  it. 
1.  Why  Confucius  should  here  be  quoted  by  his 
designation,  or  marriage  name,  is  a  moot-point. 
It  is  said  by  some  that  disciples  might  in  this 
way  refer  to  their  teacher,  and  a  grandson  to 
his  grandfather,  but  such  a  rule  is  constituted 
probable  on  the  strength  of  this  instance,  sad 
that  in  ch.  xxx.     Others  say  that  it  is  the 

honorary  designation  of  the  sage,  and«the  R 

^£,  which  duke  6ae  used  in  reference  to 
Confucius,  in  eulogizing  him  after  his  death. 
See  the  Le-ke,  IL  Pi.  I.  iiL  43.    Some  verb 


CH.ni.— iy. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


251 


*  7  ft  ££&£.■£■ 


Chapter  III.  The  Master  said,  "  Perfect  is  the  virtue  which  is 
according  to  the  Mean!  Rare  have  they  long  been  among  the  peo- 
ple, who  could  practise  it!"  .  .    ,       ,         t 

Chafteu  IV.  1.  The  Master  said,  "  I  know  how  it  is  that  the  path 
of  the  Mean  is  not  walked  in:— The  knowing  go  beyond  it,  and  the 
stupid  do  not  come  up  +o  it.  I  know  how  it  is  that  the  path  of  the 
Mean  is  not  understood :— The  men  of  talents  and  virtue  go  beyond 
it,  and  the  worthless  do  not  come  up  to  it. 

2.  "There  is  no  body  but  eats  and  drinks.  But  they  are  few 
who  can  distinguish  flavours." 

first  ch.;  and  '  though  there  is  no  connection  of 
composition  between  them/  says  Choo  He,  *  they 
are  all  related  by  their  meaning.' 

8.    Tub  rarity,  long  existing  in  Confu- 
cius' TIME,  OF  THE  PRACTICE  OF  TUB  MEAN.   See 

the  Ana.  VI.  xxvii.  K'ang-shing  and  Ying-ta 
take  the  last  clause  as='few  can  practise  it 
long.'    But  the  view  in  the  transl.  is  better. 

The  change  from  ^  ^  Q  to  «^p*  Q  if 

observable. 

4.      HOW  IT  WAS   THAT   FEW    WERE   ABLE   TO 

practise  the  Mean.    1.  j|£  may  be  referred 

to  the  *||[  in  the  first  chapter;  immediately 

following  ptj  J&t  in  the  last,  I  translate  it  here 

the  path  of  the  Mean.'    jffi  ^  and  ^ 

are  not  to  be  understood  as  meaning  the 

truly  wise  and  the  truly  worthy,  but  only  those 
who  in  the  degenerate  times  of  Confucius  deem- 
ed themselves  to  be  such.  The  former  thought 
the  course  of  the  Mean  not  worth  their  study, 
and  the  latter  thought  it  not  sufficiently  ex- 
alted for  their  practice.  ^&, — *as,'  'like.'  >|\ 

'B  following  1?,  indicates  individuals  of  a  diff. 

character,  not  equal  to  them.    2.  We  have  here 

not  a  comparison,  but  an  illustra.,  which  may 

help  to  an  understanding  of  the  former  par., 

I  though  it  does  not  seem  very  apt.    People  dout 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


JS,  and  I  have  supposed  it  to  be  j|g,  with 
most  of  the  paraphrasts.  Nearly  all  seem  to  be 
agreed  that  t£|  J|f  here  is  the  same  as  fjj 
4i||,  in  the  last  chapter.  On  the  change  of 
terms,  Choo  He  quotes  from  the  scholar  Yew 

(ij|)» to  the  &<** that  ^  ^Q  i8  8aid  ^^ 

the  nature  and  feelings  in  view,  and  Pp  fffi, 
with  reference  to  virtue  and  conduct.    2.  ;Q 

-3P  ffw  0  *¥* is  ^p1"™*1  by Choo:- 

'  Because  he  has  the  virtue  of  a  superior  man, 
and  moreover  is  able  always  to  manage  the 
ch*Mg:  But  I  rather  think  that  the  ktun-tsze 
here  is  specially  to  be  referred  to  the  same  as 
described  in  L  2,  and  FJ^TF  4*"  Wang 
Son,  the  famons  scholar  of  the  Wei  (^|)  dyn- 
asty, in  the  1st  part  of  the  8d  cent^  quotes  /J\ 

A^^ift'  ^^^  41,  of  which 

Choo  He  approves.  If  ^  be  not  introduced 
into  the  text,  it  must  certainly  be  understood. 
fa  f|  is  the  opposite  of  j£  ffi,  ffl>  {fg,  in 
i.  2.— This,  and  the  ten  chapters  which  follow, 
all  quote  the  words  of  Confucius  with  reference 
to  the  ill  6&,  to  explain  the  meaning  of  the 


3&< 


m 


$HE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MtiA& 


CH.T.— TIL 


Mis 
lAif 

IB  0  +.81 


sa 

Itfff 
&  P&  0,  B. 

Chapter  V.  The  Master  said,  "Alas!  How  is  the  path  of  the 
Mean  untrodden ! " 

Chapter  VI.  The  Master  said,  "There  was  Shun: — He  indeed 
was  greatly  wise !  Shun  loved  to  question  others,  and  to  study  their 
words,  though  they  might  be  shallow.  He  concealed  what  was  bad 
in  them,  and  displayed  what  was  good.  He  took  hold  of  their  two 
extremes,  determined  the  Mean,  and  employed  it  in  his  government  of 
the  people.     It  was  by  this  that  he  was  Shun ! " 

Chapter  VII.  The  Master  said,  "Men  all  say,  'We  are  wise;' 
but  being  driven  forward  and  taken  in  a  net,  a  trap,  or  a  pitfall, 
they  know  not  how  to  escape.  Men  all  say,  '  We  are  wise ;'  but  hap- 
pening to  choose  the  course  of  the  Mean,  they  are  not  able  to  keep 
it  for  a  round  month." 


know  the  true  flavour  of  what  they  eat  and 
drink,  but  they  need  not  go  beyond  that  to 
learn  it.  So,  the  Mean  belongs  to  all  the  actions 
t)f  ordinary  life,  and  might  be  discerned  and 
practised  in  them,  without  looking  for  it  in  ex- 
traordinary things. 

5.  Choo  He  says : — c  From  not  being  under- 
stood, therefore  it  is  not  practised.'  Ace.  to 
K'ang-shing,  the  remark  is  a  lament  that  there 
was  no  intelligent  sovereign  to  teach  the  path. 
But  the  two  views  are  reconcileable. 

6,  How  Shun  pursued  the  course  op  the 
Mean.  This  example  of  Shun,  it  seems  to  me, 
Is  adduced  in  opposition  to  the  knowing  of  ch. 
iv.  Shun,  tho'  a  sage,  invited  the  opinions  of  all 
men,  and  found  truth  of  the  highest  value  in 
their  simplest  sayings,  and  was  able  to  deter- 
mine from  them  the  course  of  the  Mean.    4k 

j£  pip|  JjjjJ, — 'the  two  extremes*  are  under- 
stood by  K'ang-shing  of  the  two  errors  of  ex- 
ceeding and  coming  short  of  the  Mean.    Choo 


He  makes  them—'  the  widest  differences  in  the 
opinions  which  he  receivedY  I  conceive  die 
meaning  to  be  that  he  examined  the  answers 
which  he  got,  in  their  entirety,  from  beginning 
to  end.    Comp.  ;hj  |£  ppj  J^,  Ana,  IX.  viL 

His  concealing  what  was  bad,  and  displaying 
what  was  good,  was  alike  to  encourage  people 
to  speak  freely  to  him.    K'ang-shing  makes  the 

last  sentence  to  turn  on  the  meaning  of  j3> 
when  applied  as  an  honorary  epithet  of  the  deao\ 
ae'FulC  all-accomplished  ; '  but  Shun  was  so 
named  when  he  was  alive. 

7.    Their  contrary  conduct  shows  men's 
ignorance  of  the  course  and  nature  of  ifll 

Mean.    The  first  -p»  4j|  is  to  be  understood 

with  a  general  reference,  — 'We  are  wise,*  L  e* 
we  can  very  well  take  care  of  ourselves.  Yet 
the  presumption  of  such  a  profession  is  seen  in 
men's  not  being  able  to  take  care  of  themselves. 
The  applica.  of  this  illustration  is  then  made  to 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  1C 


CH.TIU.— X. 


THEDOCTKINE   OF  THB   MEAN. 


253 


bad   ^ 


,%  ra  *»^^  ^  #  la  ^ 


Chaptkh  VIIT.  The  Master  said,  "  This  was  the  manner  of  Hwuy : 
— lie  made  choice  of  the  Mean,  and  whenever  he  got  hold  of  what 
was  good,  he  clasped  it  firmly,  as  if  wearing  it  on  his  breast,  and  did 
not  lose  it." 

Chapter  IX,  The  Master  said,  "The  empire,  its  States,  and  its 
families,  may  be  perfectly  ruled ;  dignities  and  emoluments  may  be 
declined ;  naked  weapons  may  be  trampled  under  the  feet ; — but  the 
course  of  the  Mean  cannot  be  attained  to." 

Chapter  X.     1.  Tsze-loo  asked  about  energy. 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  Do  you  mean  the  energy  of  the  South, 
the  energy  of  the  North,  or  the  energy  which  you  should  cultivate 
yourself? 


the  subject  in  hand,  the  second  ^f*  4jJ|  being 
to  be  specially  understood,  with  reference  to  the 
subject  of  the  Mean.  The  conclusion  in  both 
parts  is  left  to  be  drawn  by  the  reader  for  him- 
self,   rip,  read  hwo,  lower  3d  tone,  *  a  trap  for 

catching  animals.'  SB,  read  ke,  like  ^£V,  in 
.Analects,  XIII.  x,  though  it  is  here  applied  to  a 
month,  and  not,  as  there,  to  a  year. 

8.  HOW    IIWUY    HELD   FAST   THE   COURSE    OP 

the  Mean.  Here  the  example  of  Hwuy  is 
likewise  adduced,  in  oppos.  to  those  mentioned 
in  ch.  iv.  All  the  rest  is  exegetical  of  the  first 
clause- [gj  ;£  J|  \  -jjj,  'Hwuy's  play- 
ing  the  man.'  — »  35  is  not  *  one  good  point,' 
•o  much  as  any  one.     H&  is  *  the  closed  fist ;' 

£j&  i|§,— 'the  appearance  of  holding  firm/ 

9.  The  difficulty  of  attaining  to  the 
ooexus  of  the  Mean.   ^~Jv— *  the  empire;' 


we  should  say — '  empires,'  but  the  Chinese  know 
only  of  one  empire,  and  hence  this  name  for  it. 
The  empire  is  made  up  of  States,  and  each  State 
of  Families.    See  the  Analects,  V.  vii.;  XII.  xx. 

j&>  'level;'  here  a  verb,=3£  V^*  «to  bring 
to  perfect  order.'  Tf'""* a  8narP»  strong,  wea- 
pon,' used  of  swords,  spears,  javelins,  &c.     ^K 

~&\    j||j » — lit.,  *  cannot  be  canned, 

10.  On  energy  in  its  relation  to  the 
Mean.  In  the  Analects  we  find  Tsze-loo,  on 
various  occasions,  putting  forward  the  subject 

of  his  valour  (S  )»  and  claiming,  on  the  ground 
of  it,  such  praise  as  the  Master  awarded  to 
Hwny.  We  may  suppose,  with  the  old  inter- 
preters, that  hearing  Hwuy  commended,  as  in 
ch.  viii.,  he  wanted  to  know  whether  Confucius 
would  not  allow  that  he  also  could,  withjiis  force- 
ful character,  seize  and  hold  fast  the  Mean.  1. 

For  Hffi  I  have  been  disposed  to  coin  the  terra 
'forcef  ul&efs.'  Choo  He  defines  it  correctly—  'jj 


254 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


CH.X. 


5M£  B  ±  W  #  ib  ?*s£ 


3.  "To  show  forbearance  and  gentleness  in  teaching  others; 
and  not  to  revenge  unreasonable  conduct : — this  is  the  energy  of 
Southern  regions,  and  the  good  man  makes  it  his  study. 

4.  "  To  lie  under  arms ;  and  meet  death  without  regret : — this 
is  the  energy  of  Northern  regions,  and  the  forceful  make  it  their 
study. 

5.  "Therefore,  the  superior  man  cultivates  a  friendly  harmony, 
without  being  weak. — How  firm  is  he  in  his  energy  !  He  stands 
erect  in  the  middle,  without  inclining  to  either  side. — How  firm  is  he 
in  his  energy !  When  good  principles  prevail  in  the  government 
of  his  country,  he, does  not  change  from  what  he  was  in  retirement. 
— How  firm  is  he  in  his  energy!  When  bad  principles  prevail 
in  the  country,  he  maintains  his  course  to  death  withot  changing. 
— How  firm  is  he  in  his  energy ! " 

with  a  low  and  light  meaning,  far  short  of  what 
is  has  in  par.  5.  This  practice  of  determining 
the  force  of  phrases  from  the  context  makes 
the  reading  of  the  Ch.  classics  perplexing  to 
a  student.    J5j  ^*, — see  the  Ana.  XII.  xir. 

4.    ig, ( the  lappel  in  front  of  a  coat ;'  also  *  a 

mat*'  %£  &  "ffi-*  <t0  make  a  mtt  of  tba 
leather  dress  (38j  and  weapons  Q^V  Thi» 
energy  of  the  North,  it  is  said,  is  in  excess 
of  the  Mean,  and  the  jjw,  at  the  beginning  of  p.  5, 
4  therefore, '='  those  two  kinds  of  energy  being 
thus  respectively  in  defect  and  excess.'     4fc 

is  Effi  «f ,  *  the  appearance  of  being  energetic* 
This  illustrates  the  energy  which  is  in  exact 
accord  with  the  Mean,  in  the  individual's  treat- 
ment of  others,  in  his  regulation  of  himself,  and  in 
relation  to  public  affairs.  ^3  j|£,  ^£jM"  ;— 
often  in  the  Analects.  I  have  followed  Choo 
He  in  translating  SB.    Ying-ta  paraphrase*  :— 


J^  J^j[ffife  A  ^  4J,  *  the  name  of  strength 
sufficient  to  overcome  others.'  2.  ffij(=fj£) 
ES  must  be — '  the  energy  which  you  should 

cultivate,'  not  'which  you  have.'  If  the  latter 
be  the  meaning,  no  farther  notice  of  it  is  taken 
in  Confucius'  reply,  while  he  would  seem,  in 
the  three  foil,  paragraphs,  to  describe  the  three 
kinds  of  energy  which  he  specifies.      K'ang- 

shing  and  Ying-tft  say  that   fjj  jjtji  means 

the  energy  of  the  Middle  kingdom,  the  North 
being  *  the  sandy  desert,'  and  the  South.  '  the 
country  south  of  the  Yang-tszc.'  But  this  is 
not  allowable.  8.  That  climate  and  situation 
have  an  influence  on  character  is  not  to  be 
denied,  and  the  Chinese  notions  on  the  subject 
may  be  seen  in  the  amplification  of  the  9th  of 

K'ang-he's  celebrated  maxims  ( |p£  |&  6£  ^|| ). 

But  to  speak  of  their  effects  as  Confucius  here 
does  is  extravagant.  The  barbarism  of  the 
South,  accord,  to  the  interpretation  mentioned 
above,  could  not  have  been  described  by  him  in 
these  terms.  The  energy  of  mildness  and  for- 
bearance, thus  described,  is  held  to  come  short 

of  the  Mean ;  and  therefore  •&  -?•  is  taken 


'Heboid* 


ft.  xi. — xn. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


255 


^  £     4&S  ^  ^-Ji  ^ 
■*  Hfc  fflliF  TJRfc 


>c— 


#JLflc^&5fefe 


obscurity,  and 
honour  in  fu- 


the  right  path, 
am  not  able  so 

of  the  Mean, 
world,  he  feels 


Chapter  XL  1.  The  Master  said,  "To  live  in 
yet  practise  wonders,  in  order  to  be  mentioned  with 
ture  ages ; — this  is  what  I  do  not  do. 

2.  "  The  good  man  tries  to  proceed  according  to 
but  when  he  has  gone  halfway,  he  abandons  it; — I 
to  stop. 

3.  "  The  superior  man  accords  with  the  course 
Though  he  may  be  all  unknown,  unregarded  by  the 
no  regret. — It  is  only  the  sage  who  is  able  for  this." 

Chapter  XII.     1.    The  way  which  the  superior  man  pursues, 
reaches  wide  and  far,  and  yet  is  secret. 

est  signification,  and=^  ^  in  the  last  clause. 

}B|  {j£  is  said  to  be  diff.  from  jg  {£,  the 

latter  being  applicable  to  the  recluse  who  with* 
draws  from  the  world,  while  the  former  may 
describe  one  who  is  in  the  world,  but  does  not 
act  with  a  reference  to  its  opinion  of  him.  It 
will  be  observed  how  Confucius  declines  saying 
that  he  had  himself  attained  to  this  highest 
style. — *  With  this  ch.,'  says  Choo  He,  *  the  quo- 
tations by  Tsze-sze  of  the  Master's  words,  to 
explain  the  meaning  of  the  first  chapter,  stop. 
The  great  object  of  the  work  is  to  set  forth 
wisdom,  benevolent  virtue,  and  valour,  as  the 
three  grand  virtues  whereby  entrance  is  effected 
into  the  path  of  the  Mean,  and  therefore,  at  its 
commencement,  they  are  illustrated  by  reference 
to  Shun  Yen  Yuen,  and  Tsxe-loo,  Shun  pos- 
sessing the  wisdom,  Yen  Yuen  the  benevolence, 
and  Tsze-loo  the  valour.  If  one  of  these  virtues 
be  absent,  there  is  no  way  of  advancing  to  the 
path,  and  perfecting  the  virtue.  This  will  be 
found  fully  treated  of  in  the  20th  chapter.'  So, 
Choo  He.  The  student  forming  a  judgment  for 
himself,  however,  will  not  see  very  distinctly  any 
reference  to  these  cardinal  virtues.  The  utter- 
ances of  the  sage  illustrate  the  phrase  (Tf  Bf , 
showing  that  the  course  of  the  Mean  had  fallen 
out  of  observance,  some  overshooting  it,  and 
others  coming  short  of  it   When  we  1 


to  what  is  upright,  and  does  not  change,  his 
virtuous  conduct  being  all-complete.*  A  mo- 
dern writer  makes  the  meaning : — *  He  does  not 
change  through  being  puffed  up  by  the  fulness 
of  office. *  Both  of  these  views  go  on  the  inter- 
pretation of  |§£  as=ctf. 

11.     OXLT    THB  8JLOE  GAM  COMB  UP  TO   THE 

aeQUisufBHTS  or  thb  Mban.    1.  ^tr  is  found 

written  ^,  *  to  examine,' '  to  study,'  in  a  work 

•f  the  Han  dynasty,  and  Choo  He  adopts  that 
character  as  the  true  reading,  and  explains  ac- 
cordingly:— 'To  study  what  is  obscure  and 
wrong  (gg  ffiy     KHmg-shing  took  it  as— 

jjJE, '  towards,'  and  both  he  and  Ying-ta  ex- 
plain as  in  the  translation.  It  is  an  objection 
to  Choo  He's  view,  that,  in  the  next  ch.,  |j§  is 
given  as  one  of  the  characteristics  of  the  Mean. 
TheiS  ttt  3T  2T»  m  p'  *  more°ver,  agree 
**U  with  the  older  view.  2.  jf£  -3r  is  here 
the  same  as  in  last  ch.  p.  8.  A  distinction  is 
made  between  j||  ^  here  and  ^£  j||[  be- 
low. The  former,  it  is  said,  implies  endeavour, 
*nile  the  latter  is  natural  and  unconstrained 

*5COrtailce'   &$  ^rtontotitoY&yhizh- 


DiQWized  by 


CftWgk 


256 


THE   D0CTBIOT  OF  TUB   MEAN. 


CD.  IS. 


IMA 


MM  A£n 


2.  Common  men  and  women,  however  ignorant,  may  intermed- 
dle with  the  knowledge  of  it ;  yet  in  its  utmost  reaches,  there  is  that 
which  even  the  sage  does  not  know.  Common  men  and  women, 
however  much  below  the  ordinary  standard  of  character,  can  carry 
it  into  practice;  vet  in  its  utmost  reaches,  there  is  that  which  even 
the  sage  is  not  able  to  carry  into  practice.  Great  as  heaven  and  earth 
are,  men  still  find  some  things  in  them  with  which  to  be  dissatis- 
fied. Thus  it  is,  that  were  the  superior  man  to  speak  of  his  way  in 
all  its  greatness,  nothing  in  the  world  would  be  found  able  to  em- 
brace it,  and  were  he  to  speak  of  it  in  its  minuteness,  nothing  in  the 
world  would  be  found  able  to  split  it. 

3.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  roetry,  "  The  hawk  flies  up  to  heaven; 
the  fishes  leap  in  the  deep."  This  expresses  how  this  way  is  seen 
above  and  below. 

IP  ffl  £  gifc^^iBdicales  the  wide 
range  of  the  taou  in  practice.'  Something  like 
this  must  be  its  meaning :— the  coarse  of  the 
Mean,  requiring  everywhere  to  be  exhibited. 

Choo  then  defines  $g  *»  f§  ^  tBk  <the 
minuteness  of  the  taou  in  its  nature  or  essence.* 
The  former  answers  to  the  what  of  the  taou,  and 
the  latter,  to  the  why.    But  it  rather  seems  to 

me,  that  the  K§  here  is  the  same  with  the  S 

and  ^,  i.  4,  and  that  the  author  simply  in- 
tended to  say,  that  the  way  of  the  superior  man 
reaching  everywhere,— embracing  all  duties,— 
yet  had  its  secret  spring  and  seat  in  the  Hea- 
ren-gifted  nature,  the  individual  consciousness 

of  duty  in  every  man.  2.  --^  JE^tTG -jcv 
PC  jfj,  Ana.  XIV.  xviii.  8.  But  I  confess  to 
be  all  at  sea  in  the  study  of  this  par.  Choo 
quotes  from  the  scholar  How  (<fl|  J^X  that 
what  the  superior  man  fails  to  know,  was  exem- 
plified 4n  Confc  having  tq.ajfc  about  ceraoonfes, 


precise  directions  how  to  attain  to  it,  we  come 
finally  to  the  conclusion  that  only  the  sage  is 
capable  of  doing  so.    We  greatly  want  teach- 
ing, more  practical  and  precise. 
12.    The  course  of  the  Mean  reaches  far 

AND  WIDE,  BUT  TET   IS   SECRET.     With    this  ch. 

the  third  part  of  the  work  commences,  and  the 

first  sentence,-^  -^  £  *g,  ||  tfp  |fg, 

may  be  regarded  as  its  text.  If  we  could  deter- 
mine satisfactorily  the  signification  of  those  two 
terms,  we  should  have  a  good  clue  to  the  mean- 
ing of  the  whole,  but  it  is  not  easy  to  do  so. 
The   old   view  is  inadmissible.     K*ang-shing 

takes  J®  M==>fifl]>  'doubly  involved,'  'pervert- 
ed,' and  both  he  and  Ying-ti  explain :— *  When 
right  principles  are  opposed  and  disallowed,  the 
superior  man  retires  into  obscurity,  and  does 
not  hold  office.'  On  this  view  of  it,  the  sentence 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  succeeding  chapters. 
The  two  meanings  of  J§&  in  the  diet  are — 'the 
free  expenditure  of  money/  and  'dissipation,'  or 
*  waste.'    Ace  to  Ohoo  He,  in  this  passage,© 


XII. — XIII. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


25? 


I=S=I 


3S^r  stir  =£  ir 

2  «  A 1W  ^  It 


&¥  J 

r 

*■ 

*~ 

\ 

0 

*t>£ 

-t 

XI 

a 

XW* 

-^p-* 

S^ 

T 

&>£ 

¥ 

*lii> 

^  H* 

5 

Ok 

JfcWh 

4.  The  way  of  the  superior  man  may  be  found,  in  its  simple  ele- 
ments, in  the  intercourse  of  common  men  and  women ;  but  in  its 
utmost  reaches,  it  shines  brightly  through  heaven  and  earth. 

The  twelfth  chapter  above  contains  the  words  of  Tsze-sze,  and  is  de- 
signed to  illustrate  what  is  said  in  tlte  first  chapter,  that  "  The  path 
way  not  be  left?  In  the  eight  chapters  which  folloiv,  he  quotes,  in 
a  miscellaneous  way,  the  words  of  Confucius  to  illustrate  it 

Chapter  XIII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "The  path  is  not  far  from 
man.  When  men  try  to  pursue  a  course,  which  is  far  from  the 
common  indications  of  consciousness,  this  course  cannot  be  consider- 
ed THE  PATH. 

2.  "In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  4In  hewing  an  axe-handle, 
in  hewing  an  axe-handle,  the  pattern  is  not  far  off.'  We  grasp 
one  axe-handle  to  hew  the  other,  and  yet,  if  we  look  askance  from 


mnd  about  offices,  and  what  he  fails  to  practise, 
was  exemplified  in  Conf.  not  being  on  the  throne, 
and  in  Yaou  and  Shun's  being  dissatisfied  that 
they  could  not  make  every  individual  enjoy  the 
benefits  of  their  rule.  He  adds  his  own  opin- 
ion, that  wherein  men  complained  of  Heaven 
and  Earth,  was  the  partiality  of  their  operations 
in  overshadowing  and  supporting,  producing 
and  completing,  the  heat  of  summer,  the  cold 
of  winter,  Ac.  If  such  things  were  intended 
by  the  writer,  we  can  only  regret  the  vague- 
nessof  his  language,  and  the  want  of  coherence  in 

his  argument.    In  translating  jEt  -7-  j|£  ~/r 

"""    ""\  I  have  followed  Maou  Se-ho.    3.  See 


the  She-king,  HI.  i.  Ode  V.  st.  8.  The  ode  la 
in  praise  of  the  virtue  of  king  Wan.    |S  is  in 

the  sense  of  jj£|  ^t9  'brightly  displayed.' 

The  application  of  the  words  of  the  ode  does 
appear  strange. 

13.  The  path  op  the  Mean  is  not  par  to 
seek.  Each  man  has  the  law  op  it  in  him- 
self, AND  IT  IS  TO  BE   PURSCED   WITH  EARNEST 

SINCERITY.      1.     A£2S3lff0l$A' 

— 'When  men  practise  a  course,  and  wish  to  b* 
far  from  men.'  The  meaning  is  as  in  the  trans- 
lation. 2.  See  the  She-king  I.  xv.  Ode  V.  st.  2. 
The  object  of  the  par,  seems  to  be  to  show  that 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


258 


THE   DOCTKIKE   OP  THE  MEAN. 


5tc  >Jt 

j&  3£  3£ 

Sit    -J±  £13 

^r  |g  4, 


^  ^  £ 

?|c  ;?fcfls 

HE  BE  — 
&  -ttL»  M> 


C±  wl  M$  W 
BS  *n  3*  la 

^7  iff  VX  W 
$5  7^  A  i^S 
#&*&£. 

AIAJ 


•a 


the  one  to  the  other,  we  may  consider  them  as  apart.  Therefore, 
the  superior  man  governs  men,  according  to  their  nature,  with 
what  is  proper  to  them,  and  as  soon  as  they  change  what  is  icroiu}, 
he  stops. 

3.  "When  one  cultivates  to  the  utmost  the  principles  of  his  na- 
ture, and  exercises  them  on  the  principle  of  reciprocity,  he  is  not 
far  from  the  path.  What  you  do  not  like,  when  done  to  yourself 
do  not  do  to  others. 

4.  "In  the  way  of  the  superior  man  there  are  four  things,  to  not 
one  of  which  have  I  as  yet  attained. — To  serve  my  father,  as  I 
would  require  my  son  to  serve  me:  to  this  I  have  not  attained;! 
to  serve  my  prince,  as  I  would  require  my  minister  to  serve  me: ' 
to  this  I  have  not  attained ;  to  serve  my  elder  brother,  as  I  would  re- 
quire my  younger  brother  to  serve  me :  to  this  I  have  not  attained; 
to  set  the  example  in  behaving  to  a  friend,  as  I  would  require  him  to 
behave  to  me :  to  this  I  have  not  attained.  Earnest  in  practising 
the  ordinary  virtues,  and  careful  in  speaking  about  them,  if,  in  1m 
practice,  he  has  anything  defective,  the  superior  man  dares  not  but 


the  rule  for  dealing  with  men,  according  to  the 
priuciplcs  of  the  Mean,  in  nearer  to  us  than  the 
axe  in  the  hand  is  to  the  one  which  is  to  be  cut 
down  with,  and  fashioned  after,  it.  The  branch 
in  hewn,  and  its  form  altered  from  its  natural 
one.  Not  so  with  man.  The  change  in  him 
only  brings  him  to  his  proper  state.     3.   Comp, 

Ana,  IV.  xv.  1&&  is  here  a  neuter  verb,^  to  be 
distant  from.'  4.  Comp.  Ana.  VTI.  i.,  iL,  xix., 
«/  a/.  The  admissions  made  by  Conf.  here  are 
important  to  those  who  find  it  necessary,  in  their 


intercourse  with  the  Chinese,  to  insist  on  his 
having  been,  like  other  men,  compassed  with 
infirmity.  It  must  be  allowed,  however,  tint 
the  cases,  as  put  by  him,  are  in  a  measure  hypo- 
thetical, his  father  having  died  when  he  wait 
child.   In  the  course  of  the  paragraph,  he  panes 

from  speaking  of  himself  by  his  name  (j£\ 

to  speak  of  the  Anm-fate,  and  the  change  is 

most  naturally  made  after  the  last  jM*  A . 


c  xm. — xiv. 


THB   DOCTRINE   OF  THE   MEAN. 


259* 


*  *w  *  *?  *  #  w.*f  & 


2xert  himself;  and  if,  in  his  words,  he  has  any  excess,  he  dares  not 
allow  himself  such  license.  Thus  his  words  have  respect  to  his  ac- 
tions, and  his  actions  have  respect  to  his  words;  is  it  not  just  an 
entire  sincerity  which  marks  the  superior  man?  " 

Chapter  XIV.  1.  The  superior  man  does  what  is  proper  to 
the  station  in  which  he  is ;  he  does  not  desire  to  go  beyond  this. 

2.  In  a  position  of  wealth  and  honour,  he  does  what  is  proper  to 
a  position  of  wealth  and  honour.  In  a  poor  and  Ioav  position,  he 
does  what  is  proper  to  a  poor  and  low  position.  Situated  among 
barbarous  tribes,  he  does  what  is  proper  to  a  situation  among  bar- 
barous tribes.  In  a  position  of  sorrow  and  difficulty,  he  does  what 
is  proper  to  a  position  of  sorrow  and  difficulty.  The  superior  man 
can  find  himself  in  no  situation  in  which  he  is  not  himself. 

3.  In  a  high  situation,  he  doe*  not  treat  with  contempt  his  in- 
feriors.    In  a  Ioav  situation,  he  does  not  court  the  favour  of  his 


tlce  of  ordinary  virtues,'  L  *.,  the  duties  of  a 
son,  minister,  &c,  mentioned  above,  and  in  the 
carefulness  or  ordinary  speech,  i.  f.,  speaking 
about  those  virtues.     To  the  practice  belong 

and  to  the  speaking,  the  two  next  clauses.  SB, 
—as  a  final  particle, =Bp, '  simply,'  'just/ 

H.  HOW  THK  SUPERIOR  MAN,  IN  EVERY  VARY- 
ING SITUATION,  PURSUES  THE  MEAN,  DOING  WHAT 
IS  SIGHT,  AND   FINDING    HI8    BULB    IN    HIMSELF. 

1.  Cboo  He  takes  t||  as=  Js£ -£E? ' at  P^e8CI,t>, 
'now;'  but  that  meaning  was  made  to  meet  the 
exigency  of  the  present  passage.    K'ang-shing 

fakes  it,  as  in  cli.  xi.,  as=^£h  *  towards.'  Maou 
•tfeiVQUM  to  establish  this  view ;-—  jjfffiffi* 


proper  station  in  which  he  has  been.'  The 
meaning  comes  to  much  the  same  in  all  these 
interpretations.  jfi  Jg(  ^  J£  ^^,—comp. 
Ana.  XIV.  xxviii.    2.   fj  Sp.  ^  J=t=?T 

the  path,  which  ought  to  Ikj  pursued  amid  riches 
and  honours/    So,  in  tlie  other  clauses.     Ej 

iSL — lit.,=' self-possessing.'  The  paraphrasts 
make  it — '  happy  in  conforming  himself  to  his 
position.'  I  consider  it  equivalent  to  what  is 
said  in  ch.  ii.,-^  iF-ZfyB&ft 

"51  Bo  B$  44,  3-  Jfc *  cxPlaUici1  in  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


260 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAK. 


CH.X1T.— X* 


\# 


I 

IK  in  *& 


#MM*AJ| 


m 


superiors.  He  rectifies  himself,  and  seeks  for  nothing  from  others, 
so  that  he  has  no  dissatisfactions.  He  does  not  murmur  against 
heaven,  nor  grumble  against  men. 

4.  Thus  it  is  that  the  superior  man  is  quiet  and  calm,  waiting 
for  the  appointments  of  Heaven,  while  the  mean  man  walks  in 
dangerous  paths,  looking  for  lucky  occurences. 

5.  The  Master  said,  "  In  archery  we  have  something  like  the  way 
of  the  superior  man.  When  the  archer  misses  the  centre  of  the  target, 
he  turns  round  and  seeks  for  the  cause  of  his  failure  in  himself. " 

Chapter  XV.  1.  The  way  of  the  superior  man  may  be  com- 
pared to  what  takes  place  in  travelling,  when  to  go  to  a  distance  we 
must  first  traverse  the  space  that  is  near,  and  in  ascending  a  height, 
when  we  must  begin  from  the  lower  ground. 

2.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  Happy  union  with  wife 
and  children,  is  like  the  music  of  lutes  and  harps.     When  there 


diet.,  after  K*ang-shing,  by  g?  ^jfe  '  to  drag 
and  cling  to.'  The  opposition  of  the  two  clauses 
makes  the  meaning  plain.    Jh  ^K  4fi  "j^, 

~TC  ^3\  ^fr   At- see  Ana.  XIV.  xxxvii.    4. 

J£,  ace.  to  K'ang-shing,  ^jS^PSP > ' l9  °<ln*- 
Talent  to  peaceful  and  tranquil.'    Choo  He  says, 

*~  J^  ^P  Mfe  "til'  '  M  means  ,evel  »round-' 
This  is  most  correct,  but  we  cannot  so  well  ex- 
press it  in  the  translation,   toe*,  as  used  here,  is 

of  ten  written  -fl*.  5.   j  F,  up.  1st  tone,  and  gjfl, 

are  both  names  of  birds,  small  and  alert,  and  dif- 
ficult to  be  hit.  On  this  account,  a  picture  of  the 
'  >rmer  was  painted  on  the  middle  of  the  target, 


and  a  figure  of  the  latter  was  attached  to  it  in 
leather.  It  is  not  meant,  however,  by  this,  tbit 
they  were  both  used  in  the  same  target,  at  the 
same  time.  For  another  illustration  of  tbe  way 
of  the  superior  man  from  the  customs  of  arch- 
ery, see  Ana.,  III.  vii. 

15.    In  the  practice  of  the  Mean  the&b 
is  an  orderly  advance  from  step  to  stet. 

1.  $f:  is  read  as,  rik1=£||.  2.  See  the  She- 
king,  II.  i.  Ode  IV.  st.  7, 8.  The  ode  celebrate*, 
in  a  regretful  tone,  the  dependence  of  brethren 
on  one  another,  and  the  beauty  of  brotherly 
harmony.  Maou  says : — *  Although  there  may 
be  the  happy  union  of  wife  and  children,  like 
the  music  of  lutes  and  harps,  yet  there  must  alto 
be  the  harmonious  concord  of  brethren,  with 
its  exceeding  delight,  and  then  may  wife  ui 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


CH.  XT.— XY1. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OP  THE  MEAN. 


261 


wlw  mm  %*&  m  *0bm 

^  '$  M  ¥aZ 


is  concord  among  brethren,  the  harmony  is  delightful  and  enduring. 
Thus  may  you  regulate  your  family,  and  enjoy  the  pleasure  of 
your  wife  and  children." 

3.  The  Master  said,  "  In  such  a  state  of  things,  parents  have  en- 
tire complacence ! " 

Chapter  XVI.  1.  The  Master  said,  "  How  abundantly  do  spiritual 
beings  display  the  powers  that  belong  to  them ! 

2.  "  W  e  look  for  them,  but  do  not  see  them ;  we  listen  to,  but  do 
not  hear  them ;  yet  they  enter  into  all  things,  and  there  is  nothing 
without  them. 

3.  "They  cause  all  the  people  in  the  empire  to  fast  and  purify 
themselves,  and  array  themselves  in  their  richest  dresses,  in  order  to 
attend  at  their  sacrifices.  Then,  like  overflowing  water,  they  seem 
to  be  over  the  heads,  and  on  the  right  and  left  of  their  worshippers. 


children  be  regulated  and  enjoyed.  Brothers 
are  near  to  us,  while  wife  and  children  are 
more  remote.  Thus  it  is,  that  from  what  is  near 
we  proceed  to  what  is  remote.'  He  adds  that 
anciently  the  relationship  of  husband  and  wife 
was  not  among  the  five  relationships  of  society, 
because  the  union  of  brothers  is  from  heaven, 
and  that  of  husband  and  wife  is  from  man  !  8. 
This  is  understood  to  be  a  remark  of  Confucius 
on  the  ode.  From  wife,  and  children,  and  broth* 
era,  parents  at  last  are  reached,  illustrating  how 
from  what  is  low  we  ascend  to  what  is  high. — 
But  all  this  is  far-fetched  and  obscure. 

16.  An  illustration,  from  the  operation 
an1>  influence  op  spiritual  beings,  of  the 
way  of  the  Mean.  What  is  said  of  the  hceu 
thin  in  this  chapter  is  only  by  way  of  illustra- 
tion. There  is  no  design,  on  the  part  of  the 
sage,  to  develop  his  views  on  those  beings  or 
agencies.    The  key  of  it  is  to  be  found  in  the 

last  pax.,  where  the  ^  1^  ^  |£|  evidently 

refers  to  J^[  |g|  jjl  ^  in  ch.  i.    This  par., 

therefore,  should  be  separated  from  the  others, 
and  not  interpreted  specially  of  the  kwei-shin. 
I  think  that  Dr.  Medhurst,  in  rendering  it  (The- 
ology of  the  Chinese,  p.  22) — *  How  great  then 
is  the  manifestation  of  their  abstruseness  ! 
Whilst  displaying  their  sincerity,  they  are  not 
to  be  concealed/  was  wrong,  notwithstanding 


that  he  may  be  defended  by  the  example  of  many 
Chinese  commentators.     The  second  clause  of 

**•  6>-ffi  £  %  *T  #  #n  it-  *k*^ 

altogether  synonymous  with  the  J|1k  j&  w  jjfo 

J&  1fc  #Y in  the  ^  ^  tf.  «*•  *• 2-  to 

which  chapter  we  have  seen  that  the  whole  of  ch. 
i.  pp.  2, 3,  has  a  remarkable  similarity.  However 
we  may  be  driven  to  find  a  recondite,  mystical, 

meaning  for  grf/,  in  the  4th  part  of  this  work, 
there  is  no  necessity  to  do  so  here.  With  regard 
to  what  is  said  of  the  farei-sAiii,  it  is  only  the 
first  two  paragraphs  which  occasion  difficulty. 
In  the  3d  par.,  the  sage  speaks  of  the  spiritual 
beings  that  are  sacrificed  to.   SK, — read  chae; 

see  Ana.  VII.  xii.  The  same  is  the  subject  of 
the  4th  par. ;  or  rather,  spiritual  beings  gener- 
ally, whether  sacrificed  to  or  not,  invisible  them- 
selves and  yet  able  to  behold  our  conduct.  See 
the  She-king,  III.  iii.  Ode  II.  st.  7.  The  ode  is 
said  to  have  been  composed  by  one  of  the  dukes 
of  Wei,  and  was  repeated  daily  in  his  hearing 
for  his  admonition.  In  the  context  of  the  quo- 
tation, he  is  warned  to  be  careful  of  his  conduct, 
when  alone  as  when  in  company.  For  in  truth 
we  are  never  alone.  *  Millions  of  spiritual  be- 
iuge  walk  the  earth,'  and  eanti|akey  ©tflbgk 


262 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


en.  xvi. — sva. 


&  "F&Jfi  &  til  &&»  :*i 

4  0,      v(Z  »\~%  B>£  #>» 


4.  "It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  'The  approaches  of  the 
spirits,  you  cannot  surmise; — and  can  you  treat  them  with  indiffer- 
ence?9 . 

5.  "Such  is  the  manifestness  of  what  is  minute!  Such  is  the 
impossibility  of  repressing  the  outgoings  of  sincerity!" 

Uhaftkr  XVII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "How  grcatlv  filial  was 
Shun!     His  virtue  was  that  of  a  sage;  his  diguity  was  tlie  imperial 


(HI  Is  a  final  particle  here,  without  meaning. 

It  ii  often  used  so  in  the  She-king.  JgT,  read 
tak,  lower  4th  tone,  *  to  conjecture,'  '  to  sur- 
mise,' 4M*t  wad  yih,  low.  4th  tone,  *  to  dislike.') 
What  now  are  the  hrei-shm  in  the  first  two  para- 
graphs. Are  we  to  understand  by  them  some- 
thing different  from  what  they  are  in  the  3d 
par.,  to  which  they  run  on  from  the  first  as  the 

nominative  or  subject  of  jSjP?  I  think  not. 
The  precise  meaning  of  what  is  said  of  them  in 
lBg  $J  tfii  ~>fi  ^F*B  cannot  **  determined. 
The  old  interpreters  say  that  ffB—^fe*  'to 
give  birth  to ;'  that  pj"= Jjfp,  *  tliat  which ;'  that 

^?^j§=^^^jg, 'there isnothing 

which  they  neglect;'  and  that  the  meaning 
of  the  whole  is — *  that  of  all  things  there  is  not 
a  single  thing  which  is  not  produced  by  the 

breath  (or  energy ;  s5 )  of  the  hcei-sJtin.'  This 

is  all  that  we  learn  from  them.  The  Sung  school 
explain  the  terms  with  reference  to  their  phy- 
sical theory  of  the  universe,  derived,  as  they 
think,  from  the  Yih-lcing.  Choo  He's  master, 
Chlng,  explains : — *The  ktrei-shin  are  the  ener- 
getic operations  of  Heaven  and  Earth,  and  the 
traces  of  production  and  transformation.'  The 
scholar  Chang  (EJ|J3P)  says:— *  The  facei-shin 
are  the  easily  acting  powers  of  the  two  breaths 
of  nature  (~*.3?V  Choo  He's  own  account  is : 

— '  If  we  speak  of  two  breaths,  then  by  facet  is 
denoted  the  efficaciousness  of  the  secondary  or 
inferior  one,  and  by  #/««,  that  of  the  superior 
one.  If  we  speak  of  one  breath,  then  by  shin  is 
denoted  its  advancing  and  developing,  and  by 
kwei,  its  returning  and  reverting.  They  are 
really  only  one  thing.'  It  is  difficult — not  to 
•ay  impossible — to  conceive  to  one's-self  what 
is  meant  by  such  descriptions.    And  nowhere 


else  in  the  Four  Books  is  there  an  approach  to 
this  meaning  of  the  phrase.  Maou  Sob©  » 
more  comprehensible,  though,  after  alL  it  may 
be  doubted  whether  what  he  says  is  more  than  a 
play  upon  words.  His  explanation  is: — '  But  in 

truth,  the  facei-shin  are  jf?.  In  the  YA-kmf 
the  B£  and  uSf  are  considered  to  be  the  < 


ihin;  and  it  is  said — one  BjF  and  one  Gar  arc 

called  ^.    Thus  the  facei-shin  are  the  jjf, 

embodied  in  Heaven  (§9  "fc)  for  the  nourish- 
ment of  things.  But  in  the  text  we  have  the 
term  WJL  instead  of  *&,  because  the  latter  is  the 

name  of  the  absolute  as  embodied  in  Heaven, 
and  the  former  denotes  the  same  not  only  em- 
bodied, but  operating  to  the  nourishing  of  things, 
for  Heaven  considers  the  production  of  things 
to  be  ^L'    See  the  PJJ  jfg  |$,  in  be 

Remusat  translates  the  first  par: — *  Q»e  h* 
vert  us  des  esprit*  sont  sublimes!'  His  Latin  ver- 
sion is : — *  s/rirituum  geniorumgue  est  cirtms :  r*  «- 
pax  !  '  I  ntorcetta  renders : — :spiriti(ms  intst  opera- 
tira  virtus  et  e.fticacitas,  et  note  o  quam  pnestass 
est!  qnam  multiplex!  quam  sublimit!'  In  a  note, 
he  and  his  friends  say  that  the  dignitary  of  the 
empire  who  assisted  them,  rejecting  other  inter- 
pretations, understood  by  hcei-shi*  here — '  those 
spirits  for  the  veneration  oftwhom  and  implor- 
ing their  help,  sacrifices  were  instituted.'    ]■ 

signifies  *  spirits,'  *a  spirit,'  'spirit;'  and  Jj^t 

'  a  ghost,'  or  '  demon.'  The  former  is  used  for 
the  animus,  or  intelligent  soul  separated  from 
the  body,  and  the  latter  for  the  anima,  or  ani- 
mal, grosser,  soul,  so  separated.  In  the  text 
however,  they  blend  together,  and  are  not  to  be 
separately  translated.  They  are  together  equi- 
valent to  lj|jj  in  par.  4,  'spirits/  or  'spirit**! 

^^  Digitized  by  G00gk 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


263 


throne ;  his  riches  were  all  within  the  four  seas.  He  offered  his 
sacrifices  in  his  ancestral  temple,  and  his  descendants  preserved  the 
sacrifices  to  himself. 

2.  u  Therefore  having  such  great  virtue,  it  could  not  but  be  that 
lie  should  obtain  the  throne,  that  he  should  obtain  those  riches,  that 
he  should  obtain  his  fame,  that  he  should  attain  to  his  long  life. 

3.  "Thus  it  is  that  Heaven,  in  the  production  of  things,  is  surely 
hountiful  to  them,  according  to  their  qualities.  Hence  the  tree  that 
is  flourishing,  it  nourishes,  while  that  which  is  ready  to  fall,  it 
overthrows. 

4.  "In  the  Book  of  Poetry,  it  is  said,  'The  admirable,  amiable, 
prince,  displayed  conspicuously  his  excelling  virtue,  adjusting  his 
people  and  adjusting  his  officers.     Therefore,  he  received  from  Hea* 


17.  The  virtue  of  filial  piett,  exempli- 
fied ik  Shun  as  carried  to  the  highest  point, 
and  rewarded  by  Heaven.  1.  One  does  not 
readily  tee  the  connection  between  Shim's  great 
filial  piety,  and  all  the  other  predicates  of  him 
that  follow.*  The  paraphrasts,  however,  try  to 
trace  it  in  this  way: — *  A  son  without  virtue  is 
insufficient  to  distinguish  his  parents.  But 
itfiun  was  born  with  all  knowledge  and  acted 
without  anv  effort; — in  virtue,  a  sage.  How 
jrrcat  was  the  distinction  which  he  thus  confer- 
red on  his  parents  V    And  so  with  regard  to  the 

ether  predicate.  See  the  JJ  |||.  |JE|  $£ 
j£  TO  ;— on  this  expression  it  is  said  in  the 

encyclopedia  called  ffj|  tyj  jfez— -'The  four 

cardinal  points  of  heaven  and  earth  are  con- 
nected together  by  the  waters  of  seas,  the 
earth  being  a  small  space  in  the  midst  of  them. 

Hence,  he  who  rules  over  the  empire  (^  ~TC) 

is  said  to  govern  all  within  the  four  seas.'    See 

also  on  Ana.  XII.  v.  4.    The  characters  £=~ 

|  are  thus  explained : — '  Ttung  means  honour- 
He.    Meaou  means  figure.    The  two  together 
mean  the  place  where  (he  figures  of  one's 


ancestors  arc.'  Choo  He  says  nothing  on  ^ 
|Sj  i£fi(  £,  because  he  had  given  in  to  the 

views  of  some  who  thought  that  Shun  sacrificed 
merely  in  the  ancestral  temple  of  Yaou.  But 
it  is  capable  of  proof  that  he  erected  one  of  hia 
own,  and  ascended  to  Hwang-te,  as  his  great 

progenitor.     See  Maou's  ffcl  Jm  fjf£>  t*  &*• 

IJ&— '  to  entertain  a  guest ;'  and  sometimes  for 

3£>  'to  enjoy.*  So  we  must  take  it  here, — 
*  enjoyed  him ; '  that  is,  his  sacrifices.  As  Shun 
resigned  the  throne  to  Yu,  and  it  did  not 
run  in  the  line  of  his  family,  we  must  take 

jSL  ^  as  in  the  translation.  In  the  time  of 
the  Chow  dynasty,  there  were  descendants  of 
Shun,  possessed  of  the  state  of  Chin  (|jj[)>  aod 
of  course  sacrificing  to  him.    2.  The  Jj£  must 

refer  in  every  case  to  -^  fjfi ;— 'its  place,  ha 

emolument,'  &e^  that  is,  what  is  appropriate 
to  such  great  virtue.  The  whole  is  to  be 
understood  with  reference  to  Shun.  He  died  at 
the  age  of  100  years.  The  word  •  virtue,'  takes 
here  the  place  of  'filial  piety/  in  the  last  par., 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


tU 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


CH.  XY1L,— -XTOfc 


ven  the  emoluments  of  dignity.  It  protected  him,  assisted  him,  de- 
creed him  the  throne;  sending  from  heaven  these  favours,  as  it  were 
repeatedly.' 

5.  "  We  may  say  therefore  that  he  who  is  greatly  virtuous  will 
be  sure  to  receive  the  appointment  of  Heaven. 

Chapter  XVIII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "It  is  only  king  Wan  of 
whom  it  can  be  said  that  he  had  no  cause  for  grief!  His  father  was 
king  Ke,  and  his  son  was  king  Woo.  His  father  laid  the  founda- 
tions of  his  dignity,  and  his  son  transmitted  it. 

2.  King  Woo  continued  the  enterprise  of  king  T'ae,  king  K^ 
and  king  W &n.  He  once  buckled  on  his  armour,  and  got  possession 
of  the  empire.  He  did  not  lose  the  distinguished  personal  reputa- 
tion which  he  had  throughout  the  empire.    His  dignity  was  the  im- 


acc.  to  Maou,  because  that  is  the  root,  the  firot 
and  chief,  of  all  virtues.    8.  ijj*  and  ^2  (ace. 

to  Choo  He,= J3 , « thick,'  liberal')  are  explain- 
ed by  most  commentators  as  equally  capable  of 
a  good  and  bad  application.    This  may  be  said 

of  ;|>j*,  but  not  of  $6,  and  the  Z|:  in  ^j^ 

/p  afa  would  seem  to  determine  the  meaning 

of  both  to  be  only  good.    If  this  be  so,  then 

the  last  clause  4B  yjSr  3§£  J^j*  is  only  an 

after-thought  of  the  writer,  and,  indeed,  the 
sentiment  of  it  is  out  of  place  in  the  chapter. 

wj  is  best  taken,  with  K'ang-ching,  as=^jj|, 

and  not,  with  Choo  He,  as  merely =A£.  4.  See 
the  She-king,  in.  ii.  ode  V.  st.  1,  where,  we 
have  two  slight  variations  of  i^  for  j£  and 

fii  for  t8?.  The  prince  Bpoken  of  is  king 
Wan,  who  is  thus  brought  forward  to  confirm 
the  lesson  taken  from  Shun.  That  lesson,  how- 
ever, is  stated  much  too  broadly  in  the  last  par. 


It  is  well  to  say  that  only  virtue  is  a  solid  title 
to  eminence,  but  to  hold  forth  the  certain  at- 
tainment of  wealth  and  position  as  an  induce- 
ment to  virtue  is  not  favourable  to  morality. 
The  case  of  Confucius  himself,  who  attained 
neither  to  power  nor  to  long  life,  may  be  adduc- 
ed as  inconsistent  with  these  teachings. 

18.  On  kuio  Wan,  kino  Woo,  and  nm 
duke  of  chow.  1.  Shun's  father  was  bad,  and 
the  fathers  of  Yaou  and  Yu  were  wtistia- 
guished.  Yaou  and  Shun's  sons  were  both  bad, 
and  Yu's  not  remarkable.  But  to  Wan  neither 
father  nor  son  gave  occasion  but  for  satisfac- 
tion and  happiness.    Kinfe  Ke  was  the  4nkt 

Ke-lik  (2p>  Jg),  the  most  distinguished  ly 

his  virtues,  and  prowess,  of  all  the  princes  of 
his  time.  He  prepared  the  way  for  the  elevation 

of  his  family.  In  ^cf^.^JU^  *** 
£  is  made  to  refer  to  ^  |£,  '  the  founda- 
tion of  the  empire,  but  it  may  as  well  be  refer- 
red to  Wan  himself.  2.  -fl£  ^£,— this  was  the 

duke  T'an-foo  ( J[  ^£),  the  father  of  Ke- 

Digitized  by  GiOOQlC 


TOB  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


265 


perial  throne.  His  riches  were  the  possession  of  all  within  the  four 
seas.  He  offered  his  sacrifices  in  his  ancestral  temple,  and  his  de- 
scendants maintained  the  sacrifices  to  himself. 

3.  "  It  was  in  his  old  age  that  king  Woo  received  the  appoint- 
ment to  the  throne,  and  the  duke  of  Chow  completed  the  virtuous 
course  of  Win  and  Woo.  He  carried  up  the  title  of  king  to  T'ae 
and  Ke,  and  sacrificed  to  all  the  former  dukes  above  them  with  the 
imperial  ceremonies.  And  this  rule  he  extended  to  the  princes  of 
the  empire,  the  great  officers,  the  scholars,  and  the  common  people. 
Was  the  father  a  great  officer  and  the  son  a  scholar,  then  the  burial 
was  that  due  to  a  great  officer,  and  the  sacrifice  that  due  to  a  scholar. 
Was  the  father  a  scholar,  and  the  son  a  great  officer,  then  the  burial 
was  that  due  to  a  scholar,  and  the  sacrifice  that  due  to  a  great  officer. 
The  one  year's  mourning  waa  made  to  extend  only  to  the  great  officers, 

his  chief  minister.  In  jj|^  J^,  ^£  is  in  the  3d 
tone,  in  which  the  character  means — '  to  exer- 
cise the  sovereign  power.*     J^  jjjjJ  -fa  ^ 

-pr  nr, — the  house  of  Chow  traced  their  lin- 
eage, up  to  the  emperor  J@l,  B.  C.  2432.    But 

in  various  passages  of  theShoo-king,  king T'ae 
and  king  K'e  are  spoken  of,  as  if  the  conference 
of  those  titles  hod  been  by  king  Woo.    On  this 

there  are  very  long  discussions.    See  the  ptf 

Jfff  jHfci  it  &*•  The  truth  seems  to  be,  thai 
Chow-kung,  carrying  out  his  brother's  wishes 
by  laws  of  State,  confirmed  the  titles,  and  made 
the  general  rule  about  burials  and  sacrifices 

which  is  described.  From  sSt  jjjtl  -ffl  to  the 
end,  we  are  at  first  inclined  to  translate  in  the 


lik,  a  prince  of  great  eminence,  and  who,  in  the 
decline  of  the  Tin  dynasty,  drew  to  his  family 
the  thoughts  of  the  people.  «jj3f , — *  the  end  of 
a  cocoon.'  It  is  used  here  for  the  beginnings 
of  imperial  sway,  traceable  to  the  various  pro- 
genitors of  king  Woo.  *g£  3fr  Zjjj*  is  inter- 
preted by  K'ang-shing : — 'He  destroyed  the 
great  Tin ;'  and  recent  commentators  defend  his 
view.  It  is  not  worth  while  setting  forth  what 
may  be  said  for  and  against  it.  '  He  did  not 
lose  his  distinguished  reputation;'  that  is,  tho' 
he  proceeded  against  his  rightful  sovereign,  the 
people  did  not  change  their  opinion  of  his  vir- 
tue. 8.  7|?=7f£>  'when  old.'  Woo  was  87 
when  he  became  emperor,  and  he  only  reigned 
7  yean.  His  brother  Tan  ( J9.),  the  duke  of 
Chow  (see  Ana,  VL  xxii:  VII.  v.)  acted  M 


present  tense,  but  the  past  with  a  reference  to 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


266 


THE   DOCTRINE   OF  THE  MEAN. 


CH.  XYI1L — M. 


B  £  £  &0£  ^  0, 
/*  H#  £  ^i& -&& 


£2, 


but  the  three  years'  mourning  extended  to  the  emperor.  In  the 
mourning  for  a  father  or  mother,  he  allowed  no  difference  between 
the  noble  and  the  mean." 

Chapter  XIX.  1.  The  Master  said,  "How  far-extending  was 
the  filial  piety  of  king  Woo  and  the  duke  of  Chow ! 

2.  "  Now  filial  piety  is  seen  in  the  skilful  carrying  out  of  the 
wishes  of  our  fore-fathers,  and  the  skilful  carrying  forward  of  their 
undertakings. 

?>.  "In  spring  and  autumn,  they  repaired  and  beautified  the 
temple-halls  of  their  fathers,  set  forth  their  ancestral  vessels,  display- 
ed their  various  robes,  and  presented  the  offerings  of  the  several 
seasons. 

4.  "  By  means  of  the  ceremonies  of  the  ancestral  temple,  they 
distinguished  the  imperial  kindred  according  to  their  order  of  de- 
scent.    By  ordering  the  parties  present  according  to  their  rank,  they 


Chow-kung  is  more  correct.  The  'year's  mourn- 
ing'is  that  principally  for  uncles,  and  it  did 
not  extend  beyond  the  great  officers,  because 
their  uncles  were  the  subjects  of  the  princes  and 
the  emj>eroi\  and  feelings  of  kindred  must  not 
be  allowed  to  come  into  collision  with  the  rela- 
tion of  governor  and  governed.  On  the  *  three 
years'  mourning,'  see  Ana.  XVII.  xxi. 

it).      The   far-reaching  filial  piety   of 

KINO  WOO,  AND  OP  THE  DUKE  OF  CHOW.      1.  ijfe 

is  taken  by  Choo  He  as  meaning — « universally 
acknowledged;'  *  far-extending'  is  better,  and 
accords  wnh  the  meaning  of  the  term  in  other 
parts  of  the  work.  2.  This  definition  of  jj^t  or 
*  filial  piety,'  is  worthy  of  notice.  Its  operation 
ceases  not  with  the  lives  of  parents  and  parents' 
parents.  ^  ~  ^j  ^,  *  antecedent  men ;'  but 
English  idiom  seems  to  require  the  addition  of 
cur.  3.  ^/^,— The  emperors  of  China  sacri- 
ficed, as  they  still  do,  to  their  ancestors  every 


season.  Reckoning  from  the  spring,  the  names 
of  the  sacrifices  appear  to  have  been — jgL  jA 
or  J|f&  S*,  and  jfjfc.  Others,  however,  give 
the  names  as  jijvfy  jjj^,  ^  ^,  while  some 

affirm  that  the  spring  sacrifice  was  jf9j .  Though 
spring  and  autumn  only  are  mentioned  in  the 
text,  we  are  to  understand  that  what  is  said  of 
the  sacrifices  in  those  seasons  applies  to  ali  to* 
others.  jjj|[  )jj|jr- '  Halls  or  temples  of  ances- 
tors,' of  which  the  emperors  had  seven  (tee  the 
next  par.),  all  included  in  the  name  of  ^S  JBj 

7jVf}jf>  'ancestral,' or  'venerable,  vessels.'  Choo 
He  understands  by  them  relics,  something  like 
our  regalia.  Ch*ing  K'ang-shing  makes  them, 
and  apparently  with  more  correctness,  simply 
'the  sacrificial  vessels.'  ^  ^C»~ 'lower  and 
upper  jgumentsj  with  the  latter  ef  which  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


.XHLu 


THE  DOCTRINE  OP  THE  MEAN. 


267 


distinguished  the  more  noble  and  the  less.  By  the  arrangement  of 
the  services,  they  made  a  distinction  of  talents  and  worth.  In  the 
ceremony  of  general  pledging,  the  inferiors  presented  the  cup  to 
their  superiors,  and  thus  something  was  given  the  lowest  to  do.  At 
the  concluding  feast,  places  were  given  according  to  the  hair,  and 
thus  was  made  the  distinction  of  years. 

5.  "  They  occupied  the  places  of  their  fore-fathers,  practised  their 
ceremonies,  and  performed  their  music.  They  reverenced  those 
whom  they  honoured,  and  loved  those  whom  they  regarded  with 
affection.  Thus  they  served  the  dead  as  they  would  have  served 
them  alive;  they  served  the  departed  as  they  would  have  served  them 
had  they  been  continued  among  them. 


parties  personating  the  deceased  were  invested. 
i.  It  was  an  old  interpretation  that  the  sacri- 
fices and  accompanying  services,  spoken  of  here, 
were  not  the  seasonal  services  of  every  year, 
which  are  the  subject  of  the  prec.  par.,  but  the 

great  jjjjjj  and  iljfr  sacrifices,  and  to  that  view  I 

would  give  in  my  adhesion.    The  emperor,  as 

mentioned  above  had  seven  Jgfl.    One  belonged 

to  the  remote  ancestor  to  whom  the  dynasty 
traced  its  origin.  At  the  great  sacrifices,  his 
spirit-tablet  was  placed  fronting  the  east,  and 
on  each  side  were  ranged,  three  in  a  row,  the 
tablets  belonging  to  the  six  others,  those  of 
them  which  fronted  the  south  being,  in  the  gene- 
alogical line,  the  fathers  of  those  who  fronted 
the  north.    As  fronting  the  south,  the  region 

of  brilliancy,  the  former  were  called  JHJ ;  the 
latter,  from  the  north,  the  $ombre  region,  were 
called  j§p.  As  the  dynasty  was  prolonged, 
and  successive  emperors  died,  the  older  tablets 
were  removed,  and  transferred  to  what  was  call- 
ed the  jjjjk  J5j,  yet  bo  as  that  one  in  the  JJJJ 

line  displaced  the  topmost  JQ,  and  so  with  the 

ijS.  At  the  sacrifices,  the  imperial  kindred 
arranged  themselves  as  they  were  descended 

from  a  JjJJ,  on  tne  left>  and  from  a  J§>  on  tuo 
eight,  and  thus  a  genealogical  correctness  of 


place  was  maintained  among  them.  The  cere- 
mony of  'general  (jjj^=  ^J.)  pledging  *  occur- 
red towards  the  end  of  the  sacrifice.  Choo  He 
takes  'tfji  in  the  low.  3d  tone,  saying  that  to 

have  anything  to  do  at  those  services  was  ac- 
counted honourable,  and  after  the  emperor  had 
commenced  the  ceremony  by  taking  *  a  cup  of 
blessing,'  all  the  juniors  presented  a  similar  cup 
to  the  seniors,  and  thus  were  called  into  em- 
ployment.  Ying-ta  takes  *iS  in  its  ordinary 

tone,  K  ^g£  h  i  *  the  inferiors  were  the  su- 
periors,' t.  «.,  the  juniors  did  present  a  cup  to 
their  elders,  but  had  the  honour  of  drinking 

first  themselves.    The  4fiE  was  a  concluding 

feast  confined  to  the  imperial  kindred.    6.  Jgg 

J£  jjt£y  ace.  to  K'ang-shing,  is— 'ascended 
their  thrones ;'  ace.  to  Choo  He  it  is  *  trod  on— 
i.  e.,  occupied— their  places  in  the  ancestral 
temple.'  On  either  view,  the  statement  must  be 
taken  with  allowance.  The  ancestors  of  king 
Woo  had  not  been  emperors,  and  their  places 
in  the  temples  had  only  been  those  of  princes. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  the  four  particulars 
which  follow.  By  *  those  whom  they'—  t.  «., 
their  progenitors—*  honoured  *  are  intended  their 
ancestors,  and  by  *  those  whom  they  loved/  their 
descendants,  and  indeed  all  the  people  of  their 
government.    The  two  concluding  sentences  are 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ  IC 


268 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


CHC  XIX>— EL 


6.  "By  the  ceremonies  of  the  sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth  they 
served  God,  and  by  the  ceremonies  of  the  ancestral  temple  they 
sacrificed  to  their  ancestors.  He  who  understands  the  ceremonies  of 
the  sacrifices  to  Heaven  and  Earth,  and  the  meaning  of  the  several 
sacrifices  to  ancestors,  would  find  the  government  of  a  kingdom  as 
easy  as  to  look  into  his  palm.! " 

Chapter  XX.     1.  The  duke  Gae  asked  about  government. 


important,  at  the  Jesuits  mainly  based  on  them 
the  defence  of  their  practice  in  permitting  their 
eonrerts  to  continue  the  sacrifices  to  their  an- 
cestors. We  read  in  *  Confucius  Sinarum  philoso- 
phut* — the  work  of  Intorcetta  and  others,  to 
which  I  hare  made  frequent  reference : — Ex  pht- 
rimis  et  clarissimis  textibus  Sinicis  probari  potest, 
leaitimum  pradicti  axiomatis  sensum  esse,  quod  ea- 
Jem  intention*  ttformali  motivo  Sinenses  naturalem 
pietatem  et  politician  obeequium  erga  defunctos  exer~ 
ceant,  sicnti  erga  eosdem  adhuc  superstites  exercebant, 
ex  quibus  et  ex  inflra  dicendis  prudent  lector  facile 
deaucet,  hoe  ritus  circa  defunctos  fuisse  mere  civile*, 
institute*  dumtaxat  in  konorem  et  obeequium  pa- 
rentum,  efiam  past  mortem  non  intermittendum ;  nam 
si  quid  Ulic  divinum  aonovissent,  cur  diceret  Confu- 
cius— Priscos  servire  solitos  defuncti*,  uti  Usaem 
serviebant  viventibus*  This  is  ingenious  reason- 
ing, but  it  does  not  meet  the  fact  that  sacrifice 
Is  an  entirely  new  element  introduced  into  the 
service  of  the  dead.  6.  I  do  not  understand 
how  it  is  that  their  sacrifices  to  God  are  ad- 
duced here  as  an  illustration  of  the  filial  piety 
of  king  Win  and  king  Woo,  What  is  said 
about  them,  however,  is  important,  in  reference 
to  the  views  which  we  should  form  about  the  an- 
cient religion  of  China.  K'ang-shing  took  £R  to 
be  the  sacrifice  to  Heaven,  offered,  at  the  winter 
solstice,  in  the  southern  suburb  (<m)  °*  *ne  im" 
peris!  city ;  and  Jfj  to  be  that  offered  to  the 

Earth,  at  the  summer  solstice,  in  the  northern. 
Choo  He  agrees  with  him.  Both  of  them,  how- 
ever, add  that  after  Jh  *3j*  we  are  to  under* 

•tand  Jf$  J£,  'Sovereign  Earth  (>f\  =*  jg 

i  ^f*4if  oO:  ThSs  view  oi  Jjtfc  here  is 
vehemently  controverted  by  Maou  and  many 
others.   But  neither  the  opinion  of  the  two  great 

commentators  that  IS  4~  is  suppressed  for  the 

sake  of  brevity,  nor  the  opinion  of  others  that 


by  Jfj^  we  are  to  understand  the  tutelary  deities 

of  the  soil,  affects  the  judgment  of  the  sage  him- 
self, that  the  service  of  one  being — even  of  God 
— was  designed  by  all  those  ceremonies.  Seemy 
*  Notions  of  the  Chinese  concerning  God  and 
Spirits,'  pp.  50-62.  The  ceremonies  of  the  an- 
cestral temple  embrace  the  great  and  less  fre- 
quent services  of  the  mjfc  and  XQ  (see  the  Aaa, 
III.  x.  xi.)  and  the  seasonal  sacrifices,  of  which 
only  the  autumnal  one  (3j£)  i»  specified  here. 
The  old  commentators  take  jf\  ai==  3St»  ***& 
the  meaning  of  Hr ,  *  to  place,'  and  interpret— 

4  the  government  of  the  kingdom  would  be  as 
easy  as  to  place  anything  in  the  palm.*    THs 

view  is  defended  in  the  rfj  jf^  gf£.    It  has 

the  advantage  of  accounting  better  for  the  |jj£. 

We  are  to  understand  '  the  meaning  of  the  sa- 
crifices to  ancestors,'  as  including  all  the  uses 
mentioned  in  par.  4.  I  said  above  that  I  cosrid 
not  understand  the  connection  between  the  first 
part  of  this  par.  and  the  general  object  of  the 
chapter.  Taking  the  par.  by  itself,  it  teaches  that 
a  proper  knowledge  and  practice  of  thedutissaf 
religion  and  filial  piety  would  amply  equig  a 
ruler  for  all  the  duties  of  his  government. 

20.    On  government  :  showing  rnnrcirMUT 

HOW  IT  DEPENDS  ON  THE  CHARACTER  OF  THE 
OFFICERS  ADMINISTERING  IT,  AND  HOW  THAT  DE- 
PENDS ON  THE  CHARACTER  OF  THE  SOT— d* 

himself.  We  have  here  one  of  the  fullest  as* 
positions  of  Confucius'  views  on  this  i 


though  he  unfolds  them  only  as  a  afescriglJoa 
of  the  government  of  the  kings  Win  and  Woo. 
In  the  Chapter  there  is  the  remarkable  inter- 
mingling, which  we  have  seen  in  *The  Ores* 
Learning,'  of  what  is  peculiar  to  a  rater,  and 
what  is  of  universal  application.  From  the 
concluding  paragraphs,  the  transition  is  easy  to 
the  next  and  most  difficult  part  of  tb*  West. 

Digitized  by  vjJVJVJvlL 


THE  DOCTBINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


!  m  %m  Km  5t  Mm  #  b> 

i  ft  ■&  *fr  A  4UILM&  £  & 

:*.««#«■*»:  a  a  £ 
if*  fcjr  ft  ■&  &  jw  s»  * 

2.  The  Master  said,  "  The  government  of  W&n  and  Woo  is  dis- 
played in  the  records, — the  tablets  of  wood  and  bamboo.  Let  there 
be  the  men  and  the  government  will  flourish;  but  without  the  men$ 
their  government  decays  and  ceases." 

3.  "  With  the  right  men  the  growth  of  government  is  rapid, 
just  as  vegetation  is  rapid  in  the  earth ;  and  moreover  their  govern- 
ment might  be  catted  an  easily-growing  rush. 

4.  "Therefore  the  administration  of  government  lies  in  getting 
proper  men.  Such  men  are  to  be  got  by  means  of  the  ruler's  own 
character.  That  character  is  to  be  cultivated  by  his  treading  in 
the  ways  of  duty.  And  the  treading  those  ways  of  duty  is  to  be 
cultivated  by  the  cherishing  of  benevolence. 

5.  "  Benevolence  is  the  characteristic  element  of  humanity,  and  the 
great  exercise  of  it  is  in  loving  relatives.  Righteousness  is  Hie 
actordance  of  actions  with  what  is  right,  and  the  great  exercise  of 

(so  it  is  defined  in  the  JR  gj0  a  kind  of  bee, 
said  to  take  the  young  of  the  mulberry  cater- 


This  chapter  is  found  also  in  the  8£  g**,  but 
•Hh  considerable  additions. 

L  ^p£^,— See  Ana,  H.  xix,  et  al  2.  The 
^j  were  tablets  of  wood,  one  of  which  might 
eontain  op  to  100  characters.  The  j£  were 
jQj,  or  ships  of  bamboo  tied  together.  In  J£ 

^\,  lHL=»wcA,  i  e.,  rulers  like  Wttn  and  Woo, 
and  ministers  such  as  they  had.  3.  K'ang-sbing 
and  Ying-tft  take  fi£  as=»  &£,  *  to  exert  one's- 
self,*  and  interpret:— 'A  ruler  ought  to  exert 
fcimself  in  the  practice  of  government,  as  the 
earth  exerts  itself  to  produce  and  to  nurture 

C|ft=$gV  Choo  He  takes  ^  n-j(v 
•nasty,' 'to make  haste.'  Aill$tj&~~ 
'man's  way  hastens  government ;'  but  the  K 
must  be  taken  with  special  reference  to  the 
preceding  par.,  as  in  the  translation.  The  old 
tookjtff  ffi  as  the  name  of  an  insect, 


pillar,  and  keep  them  in  its  hole,  where  they 
are  transformed  into  bees.  So,  they  said,  does 
government  transform  the  people.  This  is  in  ace 

with  the  paragraph,  as  we  find  it  in  the  |e£  3j£> 

J^[  jfc.    This  view  is  maintained  also  in  the 

4*  Jf&  Wi'  But  we  canbot  b^itate  in  pre- 
ferring Choo  He's,  as  in  the  translation.  The 
other  is  too  absurd.   He  takes  rff,  as  if  it  were 

flf,«"S,  which,  as  well  as  |BjF ,  is  the  name 

of  various  rushes  or  sedges.  4.  In  the  Jfi£  S, 

for  #  A'  **  *■"•  ##£# A'  wbich  * 
no  doubt,  the  meaning.  By  *J|  here,  says  Choo 

He,  are  intended  'the  duties  of  universal  obli- 
gation/ in  par.  8,  •  winch,'  adds  Maou,  *  are  the 


270 


THE   DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


a*  n« 


S  «   R 


j|j!|§ 

Ifejft 


it  is  in  honouring  the  worthy.  The  decreasing  measures  of  the  love 
due  to  relatives,  and  the  steps  in  the  honour  due  to  the  worthy, 
are  produced  by  the  principle  of  propriety. 

6.  "When  those  in  inferior  situations  do  not  possess  the  con- 
fidence of  their  superiors,  they  cannot  retain  the  government  of  the 
people. 

7.  "  Hence  the  sovereign  may  not  neglect  the  cultivation  of  his 
own  character.  Wishing  to  cultivate  his  character,  he  may  not 
neglect  to  serve  his  parents.  In  order  to  serve  his  parents,  he  may 
not  neglect  to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  men.  In  order  to  know  men, 
he  may  not  dispense  with  a  knowledge  of  Heaven. 

8.  "  The  duties  of  universal  obligation  are  five,  and  the  virtues 
wherewith  they  are  practised  are  three.  The  duties  are  those  be- 
tween sovereign  and  minister,  between  father  and  son,  between  bus- 
ways  of  the  Mean,  in  accordance  with  the 
nature.'  6.  ^  5J£  ^  -tfi,  'Benevolence  it 
man.'  We  find  the  same  language  in  Mencius, 
and  in  the  Le-ke,  XXXII.  15.  This  virtue  is 
called  maw,  *  because  loving,  feeling,  and  the 
forbearing  nature,  belong  to  man,  as  he  is  born. 
They  are  that  whereby  man  is  man.'    See  the 

*f*  /(If  Wb  **  **'  ^k'-^W**  M  *****  read 
that.  It  is  opposed  to  fij^,  and  means  '  decreas- 
ing,' ' growing  less.'  For  jjjjfj^ff  ^j~  we  have, 
inthe^SEjjg  J^J#£,  which  would 
seem  to  mean — *  are  that  whereby  ceremonies 
are  produced.'   But  there  follow  the  words — jjjB 

^J^^^-tfer  The 'produced' in  the 
translation  can  only=4  distinguished.'  Ying-ta 
explains  Zj;  by  ^  BH.  6.  This  has  crept 
into  the  text  here  by  mistake.  It  belongs  to 
*r.  17,  below.  We  do  not  find  it  here  in  the  5g? 


S?#  7'  ^t  -£  is  here  the  r*fer  <**""**" 
I  fail  in  trying  to  trace  the  connection  betw«n 
the  different  parts  of  this  par.  4  He  may  not  bt 
without  knowing  men.'— Why  ?  *  Because,'  ** 
are  told, 4  it  is  by  honouring,  and  being  w^*** 
to  the  worthy,  and  securing  them  as  frkw* 
that  a  man  perfects  his  virtue,  and  is  able  * 
serve  his  relatives.'  *  He  may  not  be  *iti>w 
knowing  Heaven.'— Why  ?  *  Because,'  it  it  «*» 
4  the  gradations  in  the  love  of  relatives  and  the 
honouring  the  worthy,  are  all  heavenly  arrange- 
ments, and  a  heavenly  order,  natural,  necesiarr, 
principles.'  But  in  this  explanation,  $P  A 
has  a  very  different  meaning  from  whst  it  ■» 
in  the  previous  clause.  59 ,  too,  is  here  jmvk 
its  meaning  being  more  restricted  than  i°?**~ 
8.  From  this  down  to  par.  11,  there  is  to**"; 
before  us  the  character  of  the  •sies,'  mentions 
in  par.  2,  on  whom  depends  the  floiirishin&« 
'government,*  which  government  is  exMW* 

in  parr.  12-15.  ^  "f^  £  ^Br** 
paths  proper  to  be  trodden  by  alivaaerh^^ 


en.  xx. 


THE   DOCTRINE   OF   THE   MEAN. 


271 


IE  IS  &  5BI  *!  IS  #  3;  T  # 

Jlo#J8fi -£.■&£*  Jill 

band  and  wife,  between  elder  brother  and  younger,  and  those 
belonging  to  the  intercourse  of  friends.  Those  five  are  the  duties 
of  universal  obligation.  Knowledge,  magnanimity,  and  energy,  these 
three,  are  the  virtues  universally  binding.  And  the  means  by 
which  they  carry  the  duties  into  practice  is  singleness. 

9.  "  Some  are  born  with  the  knowledge  of  those  duties;  some 
know  them  by  study;  and  some  acquire  the  knowledge  after  a  pain- 
ful feeling  of  their  ignorance.  But  the  knowledge  being  possessed, 
it  comes  to  the  same  thing.  Some  practise  them  with  a  natural 
ease;  some  from  a  desire  for  their  advantages;  and  some  by  strenu- 
ous effort.  But  the  achievement  being  made,  it  comes  to  the  same 
thing." 


=the  path  of  the  Mean.  ^U=4S,  to  the 
htouUdge  necessary  to  choose  the  detailed  course 
of  duty.  £;  (=gty  ~£  ^,  'the  unselfish- 
ness of  the  heart')  is  the  magnanimity  (so  I  style 
it  for  want  of  a  better  term)  to  pursue  it.  J| , 
is  the  valiant  energy,  which  maintains  the  per- 
manence of  the  choice  and  the  practice,     fifr 

J£l  fj£  %S — •&'— thi8'  **• to  Y*n*«. 
means— 'From  the  various  kings  ("5"  IfT) 
downwards,  in  the  practising  these  five  duties, 
and  three  virtues,  there  has  been  but  one  me- 
thod. There  has  been  no  change  in  modern 
times  and  ancient.'  This,  however,  is  not  satis- 
factory. We  want  a  substantive  meaning,  for 
— -•   Hue  Choo  He  give*  us.    He  says ;— — • 


JW  i$  ffi?  EL » '  — ' is  8imPl7  *!n<*rity ; f  the 
sincerity,  that  is,  on  which  the  rest  of  the  work 
dwells  with  such  strange  predication.  I  trans- 
late, therefore,  — '  here  by  singleness.    There 

seems  a  reference  in  the  term  to  |§j},  ch.  1.  p.  3. 

The  singleness  is  that  of  the  soul  in  the  appre- 
hension and  practice  of  the  duties  of  the  Mean, 
which  is  attained  to  by  watchfulness  over  one's- 

self,  when  alone.     ^J"  ^  I  understand  as  in 

the  second  clause  of  the  paragraph.  9.  Compare 

Awl,  XVI.  L 10.  5£|],— comp.  Ana.  XV.  ii.  jgg, 

— up.  2d  tone,  'to  force,'  •  to  employ  violent  efforts. 

Choo  He  says :— 'The  £  in  ^Jf  £,  and  ^ 

^,  refers  to  the  duties  of  universal  obligation,' 
But  is  there  the  threefold  difference  in  the 
knowledge  of  those  duties  ?    And  who  axe  they 


272 


THE  DOCTRCfB  OF  THE  IfEAH. 


*Rs  EL  3 
ft  -oL 


0*1 
m  m 


10.  The  Master  said,  "To  be  fond  of  learning  is  to  be  near  to 
knowledge.  To  practise  with  vigour  is  to  be  near  to  magnani- 
mity,    lopossess  the  feeling  of  shame  is  to  be  near  to  energy. 

11.  "  He  who  knows  these  three  things,  knows  how  to  cultivate 
his  own  character.  Knowing  how  to  cultivate  his  own  character, 
he  knows  how  to  govern  other  men.  Knowing  how  to  govern  other 
men,  he  knows  how  to  govern  the  empire  with  all  its  States  and 
families. 

12.  "  All  who  have  the  government  of  the  Empire  with  its  Steles 
and  families  have  nine  standard  rules  to  follow ; — viz.,  the  cultivation 
of  their  own  characters ;  the  honouring  of  men  of  virtue  and  talents ; 
affection  towards  their  relatives ;  respect  towards  the  great  ministers; 
kind  and  considerate  treatment  of  the  whole  body  of  officers ;  deal- 
ing with  the  mass  of  the  people  as  children ;  encouraging  the  resort 
of  all  classes  of  artizans ;  indulgent  treatment  of  men  from  a  distance; 
and  the  kindly  cherishing  of  the  princes  of  the  States. 

who  can  practise  (hem  with  entire  ease?  10. 
Choo  He  oheerret  that  -7-  PI  if  here  super- 
fluous. In  the  ^B*  §5,  however,  we  And  the 
last  par.  followed  by — 'The  duke  said,  Your 
words  are  beautiful  and  perfect,  but  I  am  stupid, 
and  unable  to  accomplish  this.'  Then  comes  this 
par.—*  Confucius  said,'  fee.  The  -?-  Q,  there- 
fore, prove,  that  Tsze-sze  took  this  chapter  from 
some  existing  document,  that  which  we  have  in 
the  >j£  5&,  or  some  other.   Conf.  words  were 

Intended  to  encourage  and  stimulate  the  duke, 
telling  him  that  the  three  grand  virtues  might 

be  nearly,  if  not  absolutely,  attained  to.  4jl  Jf&t 

— '  knowing  to  be  ashamed, *  L  tn  being  ashamed 
at  being  below  others,  leading  to  the  determina- 
tion not  to  be  so.  11.  4  These  three  things '  are 
the  three  things  in  the  last  paragraph,  which 
make  an  approximation  at  least  to  the  three 
virtues  which  connect  with  the  discharge  of 
duty  attainable  by  every  one.    What  connects 


the  various  steps  of  the  climax  is  the  \ 
confidence  in  the  power  of  the  example  of  tat 
ruler,  which  we  have  had  occasion  to  point  out 
so  frequently  in  'The  Great  Learning.'  IS. 
These  nine  standard  rules,  it  is  to  be  bom*  m 
mind,  constitute  the  government  of  Win  and 
Woo,  referred  to  in  par.  S.  Comm.  arrsMstfce 
4th  and  5th  rules,  under  the  second ;  mm  the 
6th,  7th,  8th,  and  9th,  under  the  third,  so  that 
after  *  the  cultivation  of  the  person,'  we  nave 

here  an  expansion  of  SB  SB  and  jfr  flf, m 

** •  «■  )i  £-£-*&  '**"«■•  «• 

student  will  do  well  to  understand  a  ^fr  after 
^.  $5gf,-*y  the  ff  bo.™  .Ota*** 
specially  the  officers  called  £jjj,  ^L  and  fl£t 
the  — ^andthc  ~  jt,  who,  as  teaefcea, 
and  guardians,  were  not  styled  Ef,  'minister!,' 
or<servants.'    See  the  Saoo-kingV.  xxL*V& 

**  ^  S^^t  7£  £  "• 


OLXX. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


273 


13.  "  By  the  ruler  s  cultivation  of  his  own  character,  the  duties  of 
universal  obligation  are  set  forth.  By  honouring  men  of  virtue  and 
talents,  he  is  preserved  from  errors  of  judgment.  By  showing  affec- 
tion to  his  relatives,  there  is  no  grumbling  nor  resentment  among 
his  uncles  and  brethren.  By  respecting  the  great  ministers,  he  is 
kept  from  errors  in  the  practice  of  government  By  kind  and  con- 
siderate treatment  of  the  whole  body  of  officers,  they  are  led  to  make 
the  most  grateful  return  for  his  courtesies.  By  dealing  with  the 
mass  of  the  people  as  his  children,  they  are  led  to  exhort  one  another  to 
what  is  good.  By  encouraging  the  resort  of  all  classes  of  artizans, 
his.  resources  for  expenditure  are  rendered  ample.  By  indulgent 
treatment  of  men  from  a  distance,  they  are  brought  to  resort  to  him 
from  all  quarters.  And  by  kindly  cherishing  the  princes  of  the 
States,  the  whole  empire  is  brought  to  revere  him. 

He  by  j&  ^  understands  3ST  Jjj£,  'guests 
or  envoys,  and  travellers,  or  travelling  mer- 
chants,'   K'ang-shing  understands  by  them  •& 

B  *£l  §5  *0I' ' tlie  Ponces  °*  •urrounding' 
kingdoms/ t. «.,  of  the  tribes  that  lay  beyond  the 
six/uA  (  HB  )i  or  feudal  tenures  of  the  Chow  rule. 
But  these  would  hardly  be  spoken  of  before  the 
§§  "05*  And  among  them,  in  the  9th  rule, 
would  be  included  the  2jF,  or  guests,  the  prin- 
ces themselves  at  the  imperial  court,  or  their 
envoys.    I  doubt  whether  any  others  beside  the 

jh£,  or  trayelling  merchants,  are  intended  by 

the  j&  K  .  If  we  may  adopt,  however,  K*ang- 
shing's  view,  this  is  the  rule  for  the  treatment 
of  foreigners  by  the  government  of  China.  18* 
This  par.  describes  the  happy  effects  of  observ- 
ing the  above  nine  rides.  j||  ~ff,—hy  j|j|  are 
understood  the  five  duties  of  universal  obliga- 
tion. We  read  in  the  £J  §j§| :— '  About  these 
nine  rules,  the  only  trouble  is,  that  sovereigns 


the  six  |H),— the  minister  of  Instruction,  the 
minister  of  Religion,  Ac.  8ee  the  Shoo-king,  V. 
1x17-18.  fff  ^g.^heggfarethe 
host  of  subordinate  officers  after  the  two  prec. 
classes.    K'ang-shing  »ays,-gg  jjgj  ^  $^, 

1  jJJ-to  receive,'  to  which  Ying-tft  adds— M 

^  si  m» themg  °* tbe  Mme  b°dy  with 

them.'    Choo  He  brings  out  the  force  of  the 

that  he  places  himself  in  their  place,  and  bo 
examines  their  feelings/  -^  JfiF  R>— "jr  i« 
s  rerb,  «  to  make  children  of,'  *  to  treat  kindly  as 

chaw  #WX.-#H8#  '*> 

call  to  come,  — *  to  encourage.'  The  |!|'  J£, 
or  'various  artisans,'  were,  by  the  statutes  of 
Chow,  under  the  superintendence  of  a  special 
officer,  and  it  was  his  business  to  draw  them  out 
and  forth  from  among  the  people.     See  the 

Cfcw4e,  XXXIX.  1-^.    !£  j^  ^,-Choo 


274 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN, 


CB,X1* 


If  &>&#  #f  &M>%  ft  T 


14.  "  Self-adiustment  and  purification,  with  careful  regulation 
of  his  dress,  and  the  not  making  a  movement  contrary  to  the  rules 
of  propriety : — this  is  the  way  for  the  ruler  to  cultivate  his  person. 
Discarding  slanderers,  and  keeping  himself  from  the  seductions  of 
beauty ;  making  light  of  riches,  and  giving  honour  to  virtue : — this 
is  the  way  for  him  to  encourage  men  of  worth  and  talents.  Giving 
them  places  of  honour  and  large  emolument,  and  sharing  with  them  in 
their  likes  and  dislikes : — this  is  the  way  for  him  to  encourage  his 
relatives  to  love  him.  Giving  them  numerous  officers  to  discharge 
their  orders  and  commissions : — this  is  the  way  for  him  to  encourage 
the  great  ministers.  According  to  them  a  generous  confidence,  and 
making  their  emoluments  large : — this  is  the  way  to  encourage  the 
body  of  officers.  Employing  them  only  at  the  proper  times,  and 
making  the  imposts  light: — this  is  the  way  to  encourage  the  people. 
By  daily  examinations  and  monthly  trials,  and  by  making  their 
rations  in  accordance  with  their  labours: — this  is  the  way  to  encourage 
the  classes  of  artizans.     To  escort  them  on  their  departure  and  meet 


are  not  able  to  practise  them  strenuously.  Let 
the  ruler  be  really  able  to  cultivate  his  per- 
son, then  will  the  universal  duties  and  universal 
virtues  be  all -complete,  so  that  he  shall  be  an 
example  to  the  whole  empire,  with  its  States 

and  families.    Those  duties  will  be  set  up  (*§[ 

jjQ),  and  men  will  know  what  to  imitate.'  ~T\ 

^  means,  ace.  to  Choo  He,  4>fJ^  $$$&>' 
*  he  will  have  no  doubts  as  to  principle.'  K*ang- 
shing  explains  it  by  =J£  5S*  J^,  'his  counsels 

will  be  good.'  This  latter  is  the  meaning,  the 
worthies  being  those  specified  in  the  note  on  the 
preceding  par.,  their  sovereign's  counsellors  and 
guides.  The  addition  of  gfjj  determines  the  -4V 

to  be  uncles.    Sue  the  j|J  |JJ|,  L  iv.     Jl,  ji£j 


are  all  the  younger  branches  of  the  ruler's  kin- 
dred. >f^f£=y^3§i  but  the  deception  and 
mistake  will  be  in  the  affairs  in  charge  of  those 
great  ministers.    ij|a[  Gf  and  J^  are  the  ssjs* 

parties.  %ft, — as  in  Ana.  II.  xx.  Ying-ti  ex- 
plains it  here— '  They  will  exhort  and  stimulate 
one  another  to  serve  their  ruler.'    On  SJt  H| 

J£,  Choo  He  «y.:-#|f  X  RtfSI  # 

4  The  resort  of  all  classes  of  artizans  being  en- 
couraged, there  is  an  intercommunication  of  the 
productions  of  labour,  and  an  interchange  of 
men's  services,  and  the  husbandman  and  the  Umf- 
fickor,'  (it  is  this  class  which  is  dettgned  by  ^t) 


THE  DOCTRINE  OP  THE  MEAN. 


275 


%\  &»%  &m  #  m  %  m 

~  >  Jim>  KM  1kM  ffi/&  .. 


them  on  their  coming ;  to  commend  the  good  among  them,  and  show 
compassion  to  the  imcompetent : — this  is  the  way  to  treat  indulgently  \ 
men  from  a  distance.  To  restore  families  whose  line  of  succession 
has  been  broken,  and  to  revive  States  that  have  been  extinguished ; 
to  reduce  to  order  States  that  are  in  confusion,  and  support  those 
which  are  in  peril;  to  have  fixed  times  for  their  own  reception  at  court, 
and  the  reception  of  their  envoys ;  to  send  them  away  after  liberal 
treatment,  and  welcome  their  coming  with  small  contributions : — this 
is  the  way  to  cherish  the  princes  of  the  States. 

15.  "  All  who  have  the  government  of  the  empire  with  its  States 
and  families  have  the  above  nine  standard  rules.  And  the  means 
by  which  they  are  carried  into  practice  is  singleness. 

16.  "  In  all  things  success  depends  on  previous  preparation,  and 
without  such  previous  preparation  there  is  sure  to  be  failure.  If 
what  is  to  be  spoken  be  previously  determined,  there  will  be  no 


'art  aiding  to  one  another.  Hence  the  resour- 
ces for  expenditure  are  sufficient.'  I  suppose 
thai  Choo  felt  a  want  of  some  mention  of  agri- 
culture in  connection  with  these  rules,  and 
thought  to  find  a  place  for  it  here.  Maou  would 

m**e  fftHst'  ■«*  ffiHS?  ^J  See  the 
4,lllfc>foc-  ConiP-^ao^^^x. 
19.  K*ang-shing  understands  QH  ~7*  as  mean- 
ing |£  GjB, '  frontier  kingdoms/  hut  the  usage 
of  the  phrase  is  against  such  an  interpretation. 
14.    After  ^  ~~[\  ^  £,  wc  have  in  the 

said,  How  cure  these  rules  to  be  practised  f  and 
then  follows  tliis  par.,  preceded  by  J^  -3^  Q , 
4  Confucius  said.'  ^C  fljj  ^  Jjft— comp.  ch. 
jctL  3.  The  blending  together,  as  equally  im- 


portant, attention  to  inward  purity  and  to  dress, 
seems  strange  enough  to  a  western  reader.  9h, 
throughout,^'  to  encourage,'  *  to  stimulate  in  a 
friendly  way.'    I  have  translated  SB  333  after 

the  £^,  which  -aysf^^fg^ 

£ iS, ffc-  The  up-  WLiB  *■*  noun>  ■nd 

the  2d  the  verb,  just  the  reverse  of  the  phrase 
in  its  previous  occurrences.    The  use  of  lft  in 

reference  to  the  prince's  treatment  of  the  offi- 
cers is  strange,  but  the  translation  gives  what 
appears  to  be  the  meaning.  K'ang-shing  explain- 
ed : — '  Making  large  the  emolument  of  the  loyal 
and  sincere ; '  but,  according  to  the  analogy  of  all 
the  other  clauses,  jgt  and  ig  must  be  descrip- 
tive of  the  ruler,  jji:  iB?, — comp.  Ana.  I.  v. 
For  gfc  g  we  hare  in  the  ^  |£,  ^% 


276 


THE  DOCTRINE  OP  THE  MEAV. 


x  m  *  &  *  &*  m  wt 
a*vf  §l*  j»8  -t*£- 

?c>f§  3c  %  ±  %  W  % m  ffl> 


•tumbling.  If  affairs  be  previously  determined,  there  will  be  at 
difficulty  with  them.  If  one's  actions  have  been  previously  deter* 
mined,  there  will  be  no  sorrow  in  connection  with  them.  If  princi- 
ples of  conduct  have  been  previously  determined,  the  practice  of 
them  will  be  inexhaustible. 

17.  "  When  those  in  inferior  situations  do  not  obtain  the  con- 
fidence of  the  sovereign,  they  cannot  succeed  in  governing  the  peo- 
ple. There  is  a  way  to  obtain  the  confidence  of  the  sovereign ; — if 
one  is  not  trusted  by  his  friends,  he  will  not  get  the  confidence  of  hi* 
sovereign.  There  is  a  way  to  being  trusted  by  one's  friends ; — if  one 
is  not  obedient  to  his  parents,  he  will  not  be  true  to  friends.  There 
is  a  way  to  being  obeaient  to  one's  parents; — if  one,  on  turning  his 

which  ICang-shing  explain*  by  ^|^£,  'rations 
allowed  by  government.'    See  Morrison,  char. 


;fj|.  Choo  He  follows  K*ang-shing  in  this,  bat 
I  agree  with  Maou,  that  fiff  and  not  £gf  is  to 

be  substituted  here  for  &q.    jBft.  np.  8d  tone, 

4  to  weigh/  '  to  be  according  to/  The  trials  and 
examinations,  with  these  rations,  show  that  the 
artizans  are  not  to  be  understood  of  such  dis- 
persed among  the  people,  but  as  collected  under 
the  superintendence  of  the  government.  Am- 
bassadors from  foreign  countries  hare  been  re- 
ceived up  to  the  present  century,  according  to 
the  rules  here  prescribed,  and  the  two  last  re- 
gulations are  quite  in  harmony  with  the  moral 
and  political  superiority  that  China  claims  over 
the  countries  which  they  may  represent.  But  in 
the  case  of  travellers,  and  travelling  merchants, 
passing  from  one  state  to  another,  there  were 
anciently  regulations,  which  may  be  adduced 
to  illustrate  all  the  expressions  here.    See  the 

*  it  tfc—«»B  *!«*«■  M& 
tft>  II  Wt  H»"Hiee  An<L  tt  *• 7-  16- Wo 

naturally  understand  fjft  J£j[  ^j  ^  %:  — 


«A,  as  meaning—  •  the  means  by  which  they 

are  carried  into  practice  is  one  and  the  same/ 

Then  this  means  will  be  the  %ft,  or  *  prevmi 

preparation*  of  the  next.  par.  This  is  the  inter- 
pretation of  K'ang-shing  and  Ying-ta,  who  take 
the  two  parr,  together.  But  ace  to  Choo  He, 
'the  one  thing*  is  sincerity,  as  in  par.  8.  It 
The  '  all  things'  is  to  be  understood  with  refe- 
rence to  the  universal  duties,  the  universal  vir- 
tues, and  the  nine  standard  rules.  17.  The  ob- 
ject of  this  par.  seems  to  be  to  show  thai  the 
singleness,  or  sincerity,  lies  at  the  basis  of  tbtt 
previous  preparation,  which  is  essential  to  suc- 
cess in  any  and  every  thing.  The  steps  of  the 
climax  conduct  us  to  it  as  the  mental  state, 
necessary  to  all  virtues,  and  this  sincerity  i* 
again  made  dependent  on  the  understanding  of 
what  is  good,  upon  which  point  see  the  next 

chapter.  ^^^.J^,==acc.  to  Ying-ta,  y^ 

#^#±^:S'<do,iot8ett,ic"i,id 

— pleased  feeling—of  the  sovereign.'  We  u* 
( to  gain,'  and  *  to  win,'  sometimes,  in  a  sunllsr 
way.  18.  Fremare  (Nat,  Lin,  Sfa,  p.  116)  says  3 

tiff  wt  obftracitL  -t  #  j 

Digitized  byV 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


27? 


thoughts  in  upon  himself,  finds  a  want  of  sincerity,  he  will  not  bd 
obedient  to  his  parents.  There  is  a  way  to  the  attainment  of  since* 
rity  in  one's-self ; — if  a  man  do  not  understand  what  is  good,  he  will 
not  attain  sincerity  in  himself. 

18.  "  Sincerity  is  the  way  of  Heaven.  The  attainment  of  since- 
rity is  the  way  of  men.  He  who  possesses  sincerity,  is  he  who,  without 
an  effort,  hits  what  is  right,  and  apprehends,  without  the  exercise  of 
thought ; — he  is  the  sage  who  naturally  and  easily  embodies  the 
right  way.  He  who  attains  to  sincerity,  is  he  who  chooses  what  is 
good,  and  firmly  holds  it  fast 

19.  "To  this  attainment  there  are  requisite  the  extensive  study 
of  what  is  good,  accurate  inquiry  about  it,  careful  reflection  on  it, 
the  clear  discrimination  of  it,  and  the  earnest  practice  of  it. 

20.  "  The  superior  man,  while  there  is  any  thing  he  has  not 
studied,  or  while  in  what  he  has  studied  there  is  any  thing  he  can- 
not understand,  will  not  intermit  his  labour.  While  there  is  any  thing 


crHo:  Thia  is  not  quite  correct  Fer^^* 
is  in  the  concrete,  as  much  «s  the  other,  and  is 
ss^  below,  to  be  characteristic  of  tlie  sage.  (|£ 
?£  is  the  quality  possessed  absolutely.    j|£ 

^^  jg-  is  the  same  acquired.  *  The  way  of  Hea- 
Ten,'— this,  ace.  to  Ying-tl,— «the  way  which 
Heaven  pursues.'  Ghoo  He  explains  it  ^Jjfi 
^S^  jEQL  jfffc  'the  fundamental  natural  course 
of  heavenly  principle.'    Maou  says :— IrP  yq 

tu*e  in  the  Mean,  considered  to  be  thb  path, 
having  Ha  root  in  Heaven.'  We  might  acquiesce 

la  this*  but  for  the  opposition  of  A^j^>  on 


which  Maouaays^|grfl||^-|^ 

like  the  cultiTation  of  the  path  in  the  Mean, 
considered  to  be  thb  path,  having  its  comple- 
tion from  man.'  But  this  takes  the  second  and 
third  utterances  in  the  Work  as  independent 
sentiments,  which  they  certainly  are  not.  X  de 
not  see  my  way  to  rest  in  any  but  the  old  inter- 
pretation, extravagant  as  it  is.— At  this  point* 

the  chapter  in  the  ^SS- ceases  to  be  the  same 

with  that  before  us,  and  diverges  to  another 
subject.  19.  There  are  here  described  the  dif- 
ferent processes  which  lead  to  the  attainment  of 
sineerity.  The  gloss  fa  the  ^J^  says  that  <th» 

five  JJ^all  refer  to  the  what  i$  good  in  the  last  ch^ 
the  five  universal  duties,  and  the  nine  standard 
rules  being  includfd  therein.'    Bethfr  it  i 


278 


THE  DOCTRIKB  OF  THS  MEA9. 


c«.  xx.- 


m^&z>ffi2.w>®^ 


xaM 


\  ^  SLUt 


&  m  ffi  -  It  #  3 


he  has  not  inquired  about,  or  any  thing  in  what  he  has  inqnired 
about  which  he  does  not  know,  he  will  not  intermit  his  labour.  While 
there  is  any  thing  which  he  has  not  reflected  on,  or  any  thing  in 
what  he  has  reflected  on  which  he  does  not  apprehend,  he  will  not 
intermit  his  labour.  While  there  is  any  thing  which  he  has  not 
discriminated,  or  his  discrimination  is  not  clear,  he  will  not  intermit 
his  labour.  If  there  be  any  thing  which  he  has  not  practised,  or  his 
practice  fails  in  earnestness,  he  will  not  intermit  nis  labour.  If 
another  man  succeed  by  one  effort,  he  will  use  a  hundred  efforts. 
If  another  man  succeed  by  ten  efforts,  he  will  use  a  thousand. 

21.  "  Let  a  man  proceed  in  this  way,  and,  though  dull,  he  will 
surely  become  intelligent;  though  weak,  he  will  surely  become 
strong." 

Chapter  XXI.  When  we  have  intelligence  resulting  from  sin- 
cerity, this  condition  is  to  be  ascribed  to  nature ;  when  we  have 
sincerity  resulting  from  intelligence,  this  condition  is  to  be  ascribed 


toDje,thatthe^>,  acc.tothe  idiom  pointed 
oat  several  timet  in  the  Analects,  simply  inten- 
sifies the  meaning  of  the  din*.  Terns,  whose  regi- 
men it  is.  20.  Here  we  hare  the  determination 
which  is  necessary  in  the  prosecution  of  the 
above  processes,  and  par.  SI  states  the  result  of 
it.  Choo  He  makes  a  pause  at  the  end  of  the 
first  clause  in  each  part  of  the  par.,  and  inter- 
prets thus :— 4If  he  do  not  study,  well.  But  if 
he  do,  he  will  not  give  over  till  he  understands 
what  he  studies,' and  so  on.    But  it  seams  more 

natural  to  carry  the  supposition  in  ^jf  orer  the 

whole  of  every  part,  as  in  the  translation,  which 
moreover  substantially  agrees  with  Ying-U's 
interpretation. — Here  terminates  the  third  part 
of  the  Work.  It  was  to  illustrate,  as  Choo  He 
told  us,  how  *  the  path  of  the  Mean  cannot  be 
left.'  The  author  seems  to  hare  kept  this  point 
before  him  in  chapters  adii — xvi,  but  the  next 


three  are  devoted  to  the  one  subject  of  Seal 
piety,  and  the  30th,  to  the  general  subject  ef 
government.  Some  things  are  said  worthy  of 
being  remembered,  and  others  which  require  a 
careful  sifting ;  but,  on  the  whole,  we  do  not  tad 
ourselves  advanced  in  an  understanding  of  the 
argument  of  the  Work. 

21.  Tan  nncirmocjx  ooinrncnoei  or  aw- 
cxmiTT  Avn  nrmujoKKca.  With  this  chap, 
commences  the  fourth  part  of  the  Work,  wkfce, 
as  Choo  observes  in  his  concluding  note,  is  sa 
expansion  of  the  18th  par.  of  the  ] 
It  is,  in  a  great  measure,  aglori 
sage,  finally  resting  In  the  person  of  ConfuHai, 
but  the  high  character  of  the  sage,  it  is  mat* 
tained,  is  not  unattainable  by  others.  He  W*i- 
ixes  the  ideal  of  humanity,  but  by  his  cxanink 
and  lessons,  the  same  ideal  is  brought  wtjajn 
the  reach  of  many,  perhaps  of  alL  Tne  liHsl.sf 
humanity,— the  perfect  character  belonging;  la 
the  sage,  wUch  ranks  him  «m  a  l^rrei  1 


of  theprec.  chsaSsr. 
a  glorification  or  Jht 


«.  xxi.— nn. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


279 


BB 

5^  MM  ^,&>  A  #  M  MM  If 

to  instruction.     But  given  the  sincerity,  and  there  shall  be  the  intel- 
ligence ;  given  the  intelligence,  and  there  shall  be  the  sincerity. 

The  above  is  the  twenty-first  chapter.  Tsze-sze  takes  up  in  it,  and 
discourses  from,  the  subjects  of  uthe  way  of  Heaven"  and  uthe 
way  of  men,"  mentioned  in  vie  preceding  chapter.  The  twelve 
diopters  that  follow  are  all  from  Tsze-sze,  repeating  and  illustrat- 
ing the  meaning  of  this  one. 

Chapter  XXII.     It  is  only  he  who  is  possessed  of  the  most  com- 
plete sincerity  that  can  exist  under  heaven,  who  can  give  its  full 


Ten, — it  indicated  by  §)$,  and  we  hare  no  sin- 
gle term  in  English,  which  can  be  considered 
as  the  complete  equivalent  of  that  character. 
Tlie  Chinese  themselves  had  great  difficulty  in 
arriving  at  that  definition  of  it  which  is  now 

generally  acquiesced  in.  In  the  Jrtj  IE  jg|  (quo- 
ted in  the  0|&,  rfl  jfjf ,  xvz.  5),  we  are  told 
that  '  the  Han  scholars  were  all  ignorant  of  its 
meaning.    Under  the  Sung  dynasty,  first  came 

5f£^S  [|[  who  defined  it  by  >p^f  free- 
dom from  all  deception.  After  him,  £fr  >Ab  jfi 
said  that  it  meant  >ft  &>  ceaeelesenese.  Then, 
one  of  the  Ching  called  it  ^  Z^,  freedom 
from  all  moral  error;  and  finally,  Choo  He  added 
to  this  the  positive  element  of  ft  fiT,  truth  and 
rmRtyf  on  which  the  definition  of  g)#  was  com- 
plete.' Kemusat  calls  it — la  perfection,  and  *  la 
perfection  morale.9  Intorcetta  and  his  friends 
call  it — vera  $olidaque  perfectio.  Simplicity  or 
singleness  of  soul  seems  to  be  what  is  chiefly 
intended  by  the  term ;— the  disposition  to,  and 
capacity  o ;  what  is  good,  without  any  deterio- 
rating ek  mint,  with  no  defect  of  intelligence,  or 
intromiss  o  i  of  selfish  thoughts.  This  belongs 
to  Heaven,  to  Heaven  and  Evrtb,  and  to  the 


sage.  Men,  not  naturally  sages,  may,  by  cul- 
tivating the  intelligence  of  what  is  good,  raise 

themselves  to  this  elevation,  yp  and  7f&  carry 

us  back  to  the  first  chapter,  but  the  terms 
have  a  different  force,  and  the  longer  I  dwell 
upon  it,  the  more  am  I  satisfied  with  Choo  He's 

pronouncement  in  his  §&4jS >  that  n&2  is  here 
yp  ^, '  possessing  from  nature,'  and  jjfirosiBp 
^,  *  learning  it,'  and  therefore  I  have  trans- 
lated jfj!^  by— 'is  to  be  ascribed  to.'  When, 
however,  he  makes  a  difference  in  the  connec- 
tion between  the  parts  of  the  two  clauses— Wm 

cerity  is  invariably  intelligent,  and  intelligence 
may  arrive  at  sincerity,'  this  is  not  dealing  fair* 
ly  with  his  text. 

Here,  at  the  outset,  I  may  observe  that,  in  this 
portion  of  the  Work,  there  are  specially  the  three 
following  dogmas,  which  are  more  than  ques- 
tionable:— 1st,  That  there  are  some  men — sages 
— naturally  in  a  state  of  moral  perfection ;  2d, 
That  the  same  moral  perfection  is  attainable  by 
others,  in  whom  its  development  is  impeded  by 
their  material  organization,  and  the  influence  of 


380 


ibx  DOCTsms  m  toe  mxas. 


g£  w»ia*«'«  an 

5£  ft  pi  *  »  _  _L 
flfc  W.-JK  5c  £  0r  A  _^ 
#181  il&t^A^ 
^0"pT  25  £  flUfc  it  £  £ 

development  to  his  nature.  Able  to  give  its  full  development  to  his 
own  nature,  he  can  do  the  same  to  the  nature  of  other  men.  Able 
to  ^ive  its  full  development  to  the  nature  of  other  men,  he  cap  give 
their  full  development  to  the  natures  of  animals  and  thiugs.  Able 
to  give  their  full  development  to  the  natures  of  creatures  and  things, 
he  can  assist  the  transforming  and  nourishing  powers  of  Heaven  and 
Earth.  Able  to  assist  the  transforming  and  nourishing  powers  of 
Heaven  and  Earth,  he  may  with  Heaven  and  Earth  form  a  ternion. 


external  things;  and  8d,  That  the  understand- 
ing of  what  it  good  will  certainly  lead  to  such 
moral  perfection. 
29.  Thb  results  or  siwcrbitt;  avd  how  thb 

VOSSB8SOB  OV  IT  FORMS  A  TSRKIOH  WITH  HXA- 

trr  Ann  Earth.  On  ^~]>  jj|  f$ft,  Choo  He 
says  that  it  denotes  *  the  reality  of  the  Thrive  of 
the  sage,  to  which  there  is  nothing  in  the  world 
that  can  he  added.'  This  is  correct,  and  if  we 
were  to  render—1  It  is  only  the  most  sincere  man 
under  heaven,'  the  translation  would  he  wrong. 
|||r  means  simply  'to  exhaust,'  but,  by  what 
processes  and  in  what  way,  the  character  tells 
us  nothing  about.  The  'giving  full  develop- 
ment to  his  nature,'  however,  may  be  understood 
with  Maou,  ate'  pursuing  the  path  in  accord- 
ance with  his  nature,  so  that  what  Heaven  has 
conferred  on  him  is  displayed  without  short- 
coming or  let.'  The  'giving  its  development 
to  the  nature  of  other  men '  indicates  the  sage's 
helping  them,  by  his  example  and  lessons,  to 
perfect  themselves.  '  His  exhausting  the  nature 
of  things,'  t.  c,  of  all  other  beings,  animate  and 
inanimate,  is,  ace.  to  Choo  He,  'knowing  them 
completely,  and  dealing  with  them  correctly,' 
'  so,radd  the  paraphrasts,  'that  he  secures  their 
prosperous  increase  and  development  according 
to  their  nature.  Here,  however,  a  Buddhist  idea 
appears  in  Choo  He's  commentary.  He  says : 
—'The  nature  of  other  men  and  things  (^ani- 
mals) is  the  same  with  my  nature,'  which,  it 
is  observed  in  Maou's  work,  is  the  same  with 
the  Buddhist  sentiment,  that  'a  dog  has  the 
nature  of  Buddha,'  and  with  that  of  the  philo- 
sopher £aou,  that  'a  dog's  nature  is  the  same 


as  a  man's.'  Maou  himself  illustrate*  the  'ex- 
hausting the  nature  of  things,'  by  reference  to 
the  Shoo-king  IV.  iii.  3,  where  we  are  Sold  that 
under  the  first  sovereigns  of  the  Hen  ^ynastir, 
'the  mountains  and  rivers,  all  enjoyed  tranquil- 
lity, and  the  birds  and  beasts,  the  fishes  and 
tortoises,  all  realised  the  happiness  of  their 
nature.'  It  is  thus  that  the  sage 'assists  Heaven 
and  Earth.*  K'ang-shing,  indeed,  explains  this 
by  saying:— 'The  sage,  receiving  Heaven's 
appointment  to  the  imperial  throne,  extends 
every  where  a  happy  tranquillity."  Evidently 
there  is  a  reference  in  the  language  to  the 
mystical  paragraph  in  the  1st  chapter— ijfifr  d] 

ven  and  Earth '  take  the  place  here  of  the  sin- 
gle term — '  Heaven,'  in  ch.  xx.  par.  18.  On  this 
Ting-tit  observes : — It  is  said  above,  nmctrty  as 
the  way  of  Heawn,  and  here  mention  is  snwfe 
also  of  Earth.  The  reason  is,  that  the  reference 
above,  was  to  the  principle  of  sincerity  in  its 
spiritual  and  mysterious  origin,  and  thence  the 
expression  simple, — The  way  of  Hoax**;  but 
here  we  have  the  transformation  and  i 
seen  in  the  production  of  things,  and  ' 
Earth  is  associated  with  HtavaC  This  is  net 
very  intelligible,  but  it  is  to  bring  out  the  fclsncf 
a  teraioa,  that  the  great,  supreme,  ruling^  Fewer 
is  thus  dualized.  ^  is  'aflleof  three/  mil 
employ  'ternion,'  to  express  the  idea,  just  saw* 
use'qus^ernion,'foraflleoffour.  Want  toft  hut 
blasphemy,  thus  to  file  man  with  the  sunsssst 

Fewer  T        Digitized  by  CjOOQ 


CM.  3txin.— XX1T. 


THB   DOCTBINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


281 


*     vz=* 


'M.fffJW'!ftift3S 


m  ¥■  m  %  m  4k0itMm  #. 

...... ^4mt    Tmiijft 

^pg^nm    tilt 


i=f  I 


Chapter  XXIII.  Next  to  the  above  is  he  who  cultivates  to  the 
utmost  the  shoots  of  goodness  in  him.  From  those  he  can  attain 
to  the  possession  of  sincerity.  This  sincerity  becomes  apparent. 
From  being  apparent,  it  becomes  manifest,  i  rom  being  manifest, 
it  becomes  brilliant.  Brilliant,  it  affects  others.  Affecting  others, 
they  are  changed  by  it.  Changed  by  it,  they  are  transformed.  It 
is  only  he  who  is  possessed  of  the  most  complete  sincerity  that  can 
exist  under  heaven,  who  can  transform. 

Chapter  XXIV.  It  is  characteristic  of  the  most  entire  sincerity 
to  be  able  to  foreknow.  When  a  nation  or  family  is  about  to  flourish, 
there  are  sure  to  be  happy  omens ;  and  when  it  is  about  to  perish, 
there  are  sure  to  be  unlucky  omens.  Such  events  are  seen  in  the 
milfoil  and  tortoise,  and  affect  the  movements  of  the  four  limbs. 

28.    Tub  wit  or  man  ; — the  development 

OF  PERFECT  SINCERITY  IN  THOSE   NOT   NATU  RAL- 
LY possessed  of  it.    J£  jfcj  '  the  next,'  or 

<liia  next,'  referring  to  the  g  §$  t£j  ^f , 
of  ch.  xxlf  |||l  1b  defined  by  Clioo  He — — • 
-fg, '  one  half/  '  a  part.'  K'ang-shing  explains 
it  by  /J\  yj\  £  ^,  '  very  small  matters/ 
Maou  defines  it  by  Kft,  4a  corner,'  and  refers 
U>  Ana.  VII.  viii,  |j*  —  R|  ^  #HPft 
Jj£,  as  a  sentiment  analogous  to  the  one  in  Ifh 

|J||.  Tliere  is  difficulty  about  the  term.  It 
properly  means  *  crooked,'  and  with  a  bad  applica- 
tion, like f||,  often  signifies  •  deflection  from  what 

iff  straight  and  right.'  Yet  it  cannot  have  a  bad 
meaning   here,   for  if  it  have,  the  phrase, — 

3Sj  [ft,  will  be,  in  the  connection,  unintelligi- 
ble. One  writer  uses  this  comparison : — *  Put  a 
on  a  bamboo  snoot,  or  where  the  blioot 


would  show  itself,  and  it  will  travel  round  tlte 
stone,  and  come  out  crookedly  at  its  side.'  So  it  it 
with  the  good  nature,  whose  free  development 
is  repressed.  It  shows  itself  in  shoots,  but  if 
they  be  cultivated  and  improved,  a  moral  con- 
dition and  influence  may  be  attained,  equal  to 
that  of  the  sage. 

24.    That  entire  sincerity  can  foreknow. 
]|5  H$  ^  »j|[  is  the  quality  in  the  abstract, 

while  3?  jfjjt  &t  the  end,  is  the  entirely  sincere 
individual, — the  sage,  by  nature,  or  by  attain* 
ment.    jjffi  jfife,  '  lucky  omens.'    In  the  diet., 

jjsfe  is  used  to  define  jjjfi.  jjs£  may  be  used 
also  of  inauspicious  omens,  but  here  it  cannot 
embrace  such.  Distinguishing  between  the  t*  o 
terms,  Ying-ta  says  that  unusual  appearances 
of  things  existing  in  a  country  are  jfife,  and  ap- 
pearances of  things  new  are  jjg^.  j^  ^£  are 
'  unlucky  omens,'  the  former  being  spoken  of 
'  prodigies  of  plants,  and  of  strangely  dresard 
boys  singing  ballads,*  and  the  latter  of  prodi- 
Digitized  by  VjOCW  Ic 


282 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


CH.  XXTC.— «X» 


Jgi  Jft  £  &  **  £  S      M#. 


When  calamity  or  happiness  is  about  to  come,  the  good  shall  cer- 
tain lv  be  foreknown  by  him,  and  the  evil  also.  Therefore  the  in- 
dividual possessed  of  the  most  complete  sincerity  is  like  a  spirit. 

Chapter  XXV.  1.  Sincerity  is  that  whereby  self-completion  is 
effected,  and  its  way  is  that  by  which  man  must  direct  himself. 

2.  Sincerity  is  tne  end  and  beginning  of  things ;  without  sincerity 
there  would  be  nothing.  On  this  account,  the  superior  man  regards 
the  attainment  of  sincerity  as  the  most  excellent  thing. 

3.  The  possessor  of  sincerity  does  not  merely  accomplish  the 
self-completion  of  himself.  With  this  quality  he  completes  other  men 
and  things  also.     The  completing  himself  shows  his  perfect  virtue. 


gious  animals.    The  subject  of  the  reibs  jf* 

and  Hn  is  the  events,  not  the  omens.  For  the 
milfoil  and  tortoise,  see  the  Yih-king,  App.  I.  xi. 
They  are  there  called  j|ty|{|^J, '  spiritual  things.' 
Divination  by  the  milfoil  was  called  ^jj£ ;  that 

by  the  tortoise  was  called  K.  They  were 
used  from  the  highest  antiquity.  See  the  Shoc- 
king, II.  ii.  18;  V.  iv.  20-30.  [JlJ  gg,  'four 
limbs,'  arc  by  K'ang-shing  interpreted  of  the 
feet  of  the  tortoise,  each  foot  being  peculiarly 
appropriate  to  divination  in  a  particular  season. 
Choo  lie  interprets  them  of  the  four  limbs  of 
the  human  body,  ^fp  JJjjft  must  be  left  as  in- 
definite in  the  translation  as  it  is  in  the  text— 
The  whole  chapter  is  eminently  absurd,  and 
gives  a  character  of  ridiculousness  to  all  the 
magniloquent  teaching  about  *  entire  sincerity.' 
The  foreknowledge  attributed  to  the  sage, — the 
mate  of  Heaven, — is  only  a  guessing  by  means 
01*  augury,  sorcery,  and  other  follies. 

25.      lloW  FROM  SINCERITY  COMBS    SELF-COM- 
PLETION, AND  THE   COMPLETION   OF  OTHERS  AND 

op  things.  I  have  had  difficulty  in  translating 
this  chapter,  because  it  is  difficult  to  under- 
stand it.  We  wish  that  we  had  the  writer  be- 
fore us  to  question  him ;  but  if  we  had,  it  is  not 
likely  that  he  would  be  able  to  afford  us  much 
satisfaction.  Persuaded  that  what  he  denom- 
inates sincerity  is  a  figment,  we  may  not  won- 
der at  the  extravagance  of  its  predicates.    1. 


All  the  commen.  of  the  Sung  school  say,  that 
j|rf  is  here  T^  j2j  £  *Kp,  '  the  Heaven-con- 
ferred nature,'  and  that  g  is  ^fe^m^j^, 
*  the  path  which  is  in  accordance  with  the  na- 
ture.' They  are  probably  correct,  but  the  dinl- 
culty  comes  when  we  go  on  with  this  view  of 

afh  to  the  next  par.  2.  I  translate  the  expan- 
sion of  this  in  the  Q  |^|:— <A11  that  fill  up 
the  space  between  heaven  and  earth  are  things 
(£wf)»  They  end  and  they  begin  again;  they 
begin  and  proceed  to  an  end ;  every  flange  be- 
ing accomplished  by  sincerity,  and  every  phe- 
nomenon having  sincerity  unceasingly  in  it.  80 

far  as  the  mind  of  man  (  A^  j£  jQ)  **  CWK 

cemed,  if  there  be  not  sincerity,  then  every 
movement  of  it  is  vain  and  false  How  can  an 
unreal  mind  accomplish  real  things  ?  A  Ithough 
it  may  do  something,  that  is  simply  equivalent 
to  nothing.  Therefore  the  superior  man  searches 
out  the  source  of  sincerity,  and  examines  the 
evil  of  insincerity,  chooses  what  is  good,  and 
firmly  holds  it  fast,  so  seeking  to  arrive  at  the 
place  of  truth  and  reality.'  Maou's  explanation 
is : — 'Now,  since  the  reason  why  the  sincerity  of 
spiritual  beings  is  so  incapable  of  being  repress- 
ed, and  why  they  foreknow,  is  because  Uiey  eater 
into  things,  and  there  is  nothing  without  then: 
— shall  there  be  anything  which  is  without  the 
entirely  sincere  man,  who  is  as  a  spirit  ?  *  I  have 
given  these  specimens  of  cgmmeutary,  that  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


▼.— XXYI. 


THE  DOCTRIKE  OF  THE   MEAN. 


283 


«E  *<.«  »  ft  JM  M  US  «  B. 

mam  1&  m  w,  mi  ,§,£  n  m 


The  completing  other  men  and  things  shows  Acknowledge.  Both  these 
are  virtues  belonging  to  the  nature,  and  this  is  the  way  by  which  a 
union  is  effected  of  the  external  and  internal.  Therefore,  whenever 
he — the  entirely  sincere  man— employs  them, — that  is,  these  virtues, — 
their  action  will  be  right. 

Chapter  XXVI.  1.  Hence  to  entire  sincerity  there  belongs 
ceaselesssness. 

2.  Not  ceasing,  it  continues  long.  Continuing  long,  it  evidences 
itself. 

3.  Evidencing  itself,  it  reaches  far.  Reaching  far,  it  becomes 
large  and  substantial.  Large  and  substantial,  it  becomes  high  and 
brilliant. 

4.  Large  and  substantial; — this  is  how  it  contains  all  things. 
High  and  brilliant ; — this  is  how  it  overspreads  all  things.  Reach- 
ing far  and  continuing  long ; — this  is  how  it  perfects  all  things. 

5.  So  large  and  substantial,  the  individual  possessing  it  is  the  co- 
uai  of  Earth.     So  high  and  brilliant,  it  makes  him  the  coequal  of 

So  far-reaching  and  long-continuing,  it  makes  him  infinite. 


S 


eaven. 

reader  may,  if  he  can,  by  means  of  them,  gather 
tome  apprehensible  meaning  from  the  text.    8. 

I  have  translated  WUJfyi  by — *  complete  other  men 
end  things  also,*  with  a  reference  to  the  account 
of  the  achievements  of  sincerity,  in  ch.  xxii.    On 

*£«&•  £**&££**• 

H  US  Paraphrases : — '  Now  both  this  perfect 
virtue  and  knowledge  are  virtues  certainly  and 
originally  belonging  to  our  nature,  to  be  referred 
for  their  bestowment  to  Heaven ; — what  distinc- 
tion Is  there  in  them  of  external  and  internal  ?' 
—All  this,  so  far  as  I  can  see,  is  but  veiling 
ignorance  by  words  without  knowledge. 


26.  a  parallel  between  the  8aoe  pos- 
sessed of  entire  sincerity,  and  heaven  and 
Earth,  showing  that  the  same  qualities 
belong  to  THEM.  The  first  six  parr,  show  tho 
way  of  the  sage ;  the  next  three  show  the  way 
of  Heaven  and  Earth ;  and  the  last  brings  the 
two  ways  together,  in  their  essential  nature,  in 
a  passage  from  the  She-king.  The  doctrine  of 
the  chapter  is  liable  to  the  criticisms  which  have 
been  made  on  the  22d  ch.  And,  moreover,  there 
is  in  it  a  sad  confusion  of  the  visible  heavens 
and  earth  with  the  immaterial  power  and  rea- 
son which  govern  them ;  in  a  word,  with  God. 
1.  Becauaeof  the  Afc,  'hence,'  or 

9U%      Digitized  by  * 


284 


TIIE  DOCTRTHE   OF   THE   MEAN. 


*i  §  ft  $r  &> 

£  8  H  m  4, 


£  K"J  W 

-4>  SJj 


II 


6.  Such  beinj?  its  nature,  without  any  display,  it  becomes  mani- 
fested ;  without  any  movement,  it  produces  changes ;  and  without 
any  effort,  it  accomplishes  its  ends. 

7.  The  way  of  Heaven  and  Earth  may  be  completely  declared 
in  one  sentence. — They  are  without,  any  doubleness,  and  so  the* 
produce  things  in  a  manner  that  is  unfathomable. 

8.  The  way  of  Heaven  and  Earth  is  large  and  substantial,  high 
and  brilliant,  far-reaching  and  long-enduring. 

9.  The  heaven  now  before  us  is  only  this  bright  shining  spot; 
but  when  viewed  in  its  inexhaustible  extent,  the  sun,  moon,  stars, 
and  constellations  of  the  zodiac,  are  suspended  in  it,  and  all  things 
are  overspread  by  it.  The  earth  before  us  is  but  a  handful  of 
noil ;  but  when   regarded  in  its  breadth  and  thickness,  it  sustains 


Choo  He  it  condemned  by  recent  writers  for 
making  a  new  chapter  to  commence  Iiere.  Yet 
the  matter  is  sufficiently  distinct  from  that  of 

the  preceding  one.  Where  the  jfc£  takes  hold  of 
the  text  above,  however,  it  is  not  easy  to  discover. 
The  gloss  in  the  jtjk  &  says  that  it  indicates 
a  conclusion  from  all  the  preceding  predicates 
about  sincerity.  JjS  gjfy  is  to  be  understood, 
now  in  the  abstract,  and  now  in  the  concrete. 
But  the  Oth  paragraph  seems  to  be  the  place 
to  bring  out  the  personal  idea,  as  1  hare  done. 
^HSB'  ' witnout  bounds,'=our  infinite.  Surely 
it  is  strange — passing  strange — to  apply  that 
term  in  the  description  of  any  created  being. 

7.  What  I  said  was  the  prime  idea  in  atf,  viz., 
•  simplicity,'  *  singleness  of  soul,*  is  very  conspi- 
cohere.  ££0j;f:m-£uthe 
subst.  verb.  It  surprises  us,  however,  to  find 
Heaven  and  Earth  called '  Mm^'at  the  same  time 
t  hat  they  are  represented  as  by  their  entire  sin- 
cerity producing  all  things.    9.  This  par.  is  said 


to  illustrate  the  unfathomableness  of  Heaven 
and  Earth  in  producing  things,  showing  how 
it  springs  from  their  sincerity,  or  freedom  from 
doubleness.  I  have  already  observed  how  it  ti 
only  the  material  heavens  and  earth  which  are 
presented  to  us.  And  not  only  so ; — we  have 
mountains,  seas,  and  rivers,  set  forth  as  acting 
with  the  same  unfatliomableness  as  those  entire 
bodies  and  powers.  The  j&  *£=&  aays  on  this: 
— 4The  hills  and  waters  are  what  Heaven  and 
Earth  produce,  and  that  they  should  yet  be  able 
themselves  to  produce  other  things,  shows  still 
more  how  Heaven  and  Earth,  in  the  ps-odatian 
of  things,  are  unfathomable.'  The  confusi— 
and  error  in  such  representations  mm    Sttr 

lamentable.  The  use  of  £L  in  the  several 
clauses  liere  perplexes  the  student.  On  ftS} 
flS^^ChooHesay^J^^I^— 

J&  ffij  Tlf<l> <Thia  i§  •Peatog  of  H'-hea: 
ven— <as  it  appears  in  one  point.'  In  the  pb  SS 
||j£,  in  locn  there  is  an  attempt  to  make  this 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


«H.  XXTI. 


THE   DOCTRINE   OF   THE   MEAN. 


285 


M  ffl>%  #*  M>7&  H  ^  it  W 


mountains  like  the  Hwa  and  the  Yoh,  without  feeling  their  weight, 
and  contains  the  rivers  and  seas,  without  their  leaking  away.  The 
mountain  now  before  us  appears  only  a  stone ;  but  when  contem- 
plated in  all  the  vastness  of  its  size,  we  see  how  the  grass  and  trees 
are  produced  on  it,  and  birds  and  beasts  dwell  on  it,  and  precious 
things  which  men  treasure  up  are  found  on  it.  The  water  now 
before  us  appears  but  a  ladleful;  yet  extending  our  view  to  its 
unfathomable  depths,  the  largest  tortoises,  iguanas,  iguanadons, 
dragons,  fishes,  and  turtles,  are  produced  in  them,  articles  of  value 
and  sources  of  wealth  abound  in  them. 

10.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  The  ordinances  of  Heaven, 
how  profound  are  they  and  unceasing !"  The  meaning  is,  that  it  is 
thus  that  Heaven  is  Heaven.  And  again,  "  How  illustrious  was  it,  the 
singleness  of  the  virtue  of  king  Wan!"  indicating  that  it  was  thus 
that  king  WJtn  was  what  he  was.     Singleness  likewise  is  unceasing. 

l&IIJk — there  are  five  peaks,  or  S^,  worship- 
ped in  China,  the  western  one  of  which  is  called 
jjjjl  (low.  8d  tone)  Mk.  Here,  however,  we 
are  to  understand  by  each  term  a  particular 
mountain.  See  the  ^j|  gf£  and  fflf|f  §jfc» 
in  he.  In  the  4j|  j|§,  the  Yellow  river,  and 
that  only,  is  understood  by  JjiJ\  but  both  it  and 
yfe  must  be  token  generally.  4K  read  Paten, 
lower  1st  tone,  is  in  the  diet.,  with  ^vty/ttftjf 


out  by  a  definition  of  4£  '—^ 
^J^|[tBP>  '  5>  i*  overplus,  meaning  a  small 
overplus.'  JJ  J^  J||  J^,— comp.  the  8hoo- 
king,  1. 3.  In  that  pass.,  as  well  as  here,  many 
take  J||  as  meaning  the  planets,  but  we  need 
not  depart  from  the  meaning  of  '  stars'  gene- 
rally. Jgj^  is  applied  variously,  but  used  along 
with  the  other  terms,  it  denotes  the  conjunc- 
tions of  the  sun  and  moon,  which  divide  tlio 
circumference  of  the  heavens  into  twelve  parts. 


286 


TIIK  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


m 


#  %  w  ^  3c, 


Jit  44.     ^ 


«  =  «¥... 


Chapter  XXVII.     1.  How  great  is  the  path  proper  to  the  sage! 

2.  Like  overflowing  water,  it  sends  forth  and  nourishes  all  things, 
and  rises  up  to  the  height  of  heaven. 

3.  All  complete  is  its  greatness !     It  embraces  the  three  hun- 
dred rules  of  ceremony,  and  the  three  thousand  rules  of  demeanour. 

4.  It  waits  for  the  proper  man,  and  then  it  is  trodden. 

5.  Hence  it  is  said,   "  Only  by  perfect  virtue  can  the  perfect 
path,  in  all  its  courses,  be  made  a  fact." 

6.  Therefore,  the  superior  man  honours  his  virtuous  nature,  and 
maintains  constant  inquiry  and  study,  seeking  to  carry  it  out  to  its 


passage,  defined  by  |g,  «a  place,'  'a  small 
plot.'    In  the  p|j  jgf  |£,  f|  is  defined  as 

'ft  Si  *%L  7C  *the  flrf ^Produced  of  the 
ohelonia  ;*  $|  **  )$£  ||  j£  J|  '  the  chief 
of  scaly  animals ;'  Hft  as  being  a  'kind  of  T&  ;' 
jj£  as  being ' a  kind  of  j||,'  while  the  j| 
'lias  scales  like  a  fish,  feet  like  a  dragon,  and  is 
related  to  the  ffi.'    By  JS'  are  intended  pearls 

and  valuable  shells ;  by  j=tt*,  fish,  salt,  Ac.  10. 
8ee  the  She-king,  IV.  i.  Bk.  I.  Ode.  II.  st  1.  The 
attributes  of  the  ordinances  of  Heaven,  and  the 
virtue  of  king  Win,  are  here  set  forth,  as  sub- 
stantially the  same.     jfejfi='fine    and  pure,' 

*  unmixed.'  The  diet  gives  it  the  distinct 
meaning  of  '  ceaselessness,*  quoting  the    last 

clause  here,— £fQ  iff  ^  Q,  as  if  it  were  de- 
finition, and  not  description. 

27.  The  globious  path  of  tot  sags  ;  and 
how  the  superior  man  endeavours  to  attain 
so  rr.  The  chapter  thus  divides  itself  into  two 
parts,  one  containing  five  parr.,  descriptive  of 

the  |jg  K^y  or  sage,  and  the  other  two,  des- 
criptive of  the  jS*  -3r,  or  superior  man,  which 

two  appellations  are  to  be  here  distinguished. 
1.  'This  par.,'  says  Choo  He,  'embraces  the  two 
that  follow.'    They  are,  indeed,  to  be  taken  as 


ezegeticalof  it.  ig[,  it  is  said,  is  here,  as  avert 
where  else  in  the  work  (see  the  pBjffi,  »  fccj, 
'  the  path  which  is  in  ace.  with  the  nature*  The 
student  tries  to  believe  so,  and  goes  on  to  par. 
2,  when  the  predicate  about  the  nourishing  of 

all  things  puzzles  and  confounds  him.  2.  jfe 
is  not  here  the  adverb,  but=  5j?»  *  reaching  to.' 
8.  By  ijfi  4&L,  we  are  to  understand  the  great- 
er and  more  general  principles  of  propriety, 
'such,'  says  the f||||%  'as  capping,  manw^e, 
mourning,  and  sacrifice ;'  and  by  Edr  4&  sre 
intended  all  the  minuter  observances  ofthose. 
The  former  are  also  jgg  |§,  flg£,  and  J£ 
jjg;  the  latter,  ftfg,  and  $  jg.  Seethe 

$k  PS'  inhc'  800  and  8000  are  round  num- 
bers. Reference  is  made  to  these  rules  and  their 
minutiae,  to  show  how,  in  every  one  of  them, 
as  proceeding  from  the  sage,  there  is  a  principle, 
to  be  referred  to  the  Heaven-given  nature.  4. 
Corap.  ch.  xx.  2.  In  '  Confucius  Stnarum  PnHo** 
phusy'  it  is  suggested  that  there  may  be  here* 
prophecy  of  the  Saviour,  and  that  the  writer 
may  have  been  'under  the  influence  of  *at 
spirit,  by  whose  moving  the  Sibyls  formerly 
prophesied  of  Christ*  There  is  nothing  in  the 
text  to  justify  such  a  thonght.    5.  £g£,  *  to  eoa- 

geal;'then,a 

DigifiFecl 


tossfe"***** 


B.  XXVU. — XXVIU. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OP  THE   MEAN. 


m 


breadth  and  greatness,  so  as  to  omit  none  of  the  more  exquisite  and 
minute  points  which  it  embraces,  and  to  raise  it  to  its  greatest 
height  and  brilliancy,  so  as  to  pursue  the  course  of  the  Mean.  He 
cherishes  his  old  knowledge,  and  is  continually  acquiring  new.  He 
exerts  an  honest,  generous,  earnestness,  in  the  esteem  and  practice 
of  all  propriety. 

7.  Thus,  when  occupying  a  high  situation,  he  is  not  proud,  and 
in  a  low  situation,  he  is  not  insubordinate.  When  the  kingdom  is 
well-governed,  he  is  sure  by  his  words  to  rise ;  and  when  it  is  ill- 
governed,  he  is  sure  by  his  silence  to  command  forbearance  to  him- 
self. Is  not  this  what  we  find  in  the  Book  of  Poetry, — "  Intelligent 
is  he  and  prudent,  and  so  preserves  his  person  ?" 

Chapter  XXVIII.  1.  The  Master  said,  "  Let  a  man  who  is  ig- 
norant be  fond  of  using  his  own  judgment ;  let  a  man  without  rank 
be  fond  of  assuming  a  directing  power  to  himself;  let  a  man  who  is 
living  in  the  present  age  go  back  to  the  ways  of  antiquity ; — on  the 
persons  of  all  who  act  thus  calamities  will  be  sure  to  come." 

flx.*  The  whole  par.  it  merely  a  repetition  of 
the  prec  one,  in  other  words,  6.  j^[  in  both 
c— eshere,=rjj, ( to  proceed  from,' or  'by.'  It  if 
•aid  correctly,  that  ^^^—^M^ 
^etetaentence,-^^^^  g[  fg 
«|l,  is  the  brains  of  the  whole  paragraph.'  ^ 

J^SD^^f'--SeeAlia-II-xl-  7-  This  de- 
scribe* the  superior  man,  largely  successful  in 
pursuing  the  course  indicated  in  the  prec.  par. 

-fiJHIf'.  fgjp  0,-See  the  She-king,  III. 
iii  Ode  VL  st.  5. 


28.     AX  ILLUSTRATION  OF  THB  SENTENCE  IN 
THB  LAST  CHAPTER — *  In  A  LOW  SITUATION  HE  IS 

not  insubordinate.'  There  does  seem  to  be  a 
connection  of  the  kind  thus  indicated  between 
this  chapter  and  the  last,  but  the  principal  ob- 
ject of  what  is  said  here,  is  to  prepare  the  way 
for  the  eulogium  of  Confucius  below, — the  eulo- 
gium  of  him,  a  sage  without  the  throne.  1.  The 
different  clauses  here  may  be  understood  gene- 
rally, but  they  have  a  special  reference  to  the 
general  scope  of  the  chapter.  Three  things  are 
required  to  give  law  to  the  empire :  virtue  (in- 
cluding intelligence) ;  rank;  and  the  right  time. 

Si  is  he  who  wants  the  virtue ;  Bj|  is  he  who 
wants  the  rank  j  and  the  last  clause  describes 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


288 


TUE   DOCTRINE  OF  TUK   MEAN. 


oLin 


4-m> 


W$  M  *  Kit. 


2.  To  no  one  but  the  emperor  does  it  belong  to  order  cere- 
monies, to  fix  the  measures,  and  to  determine  the  characters. 

3.  Now,  over  the  empire,  carriages  have  all  wheels  of  the  same 
size ;  all  writing  is  with  the  same  characters ;  and  for  conduct  there 
are  the  same  rules, 

4.  One  may  occupy  the  throne,  but  if  he  have  not  the  proper 
virtue,  he  may  not  dare  to  make  ceremonies  or  music  One  miy 
have  the  virtue,  but  if  he  do  not  occupy  the  throne,  he  may  not  pre- 
sume to  make  ceremonies  or  music. 

5.  The  Master  said,  "I  may  describe  the  ceremonies  of  the  Hm 
dynasty,  but  Ke  cannot  sufficiently  attest  my  words.    1  have  learned 


the  ceremonies  of  the  Yin  dynasty,  and  in  Sung  they  still  coDtinoe 
I  have  learned  the  ceremonies  of  Chow,  whi  " 


follow  Chow." 

the  absence  of  the  right  time.— In  this  last 
clause,  there  would  seem  to  be  a  sentiment, 
which  should  have  given  course  in  China  to  the 
doctrine  of  Progress.  2.  This,  and  the  two 
next  parr,  arc  understood  to  be  the  words  of 
Tsze-szc,  illustrating  the  pree.  declarations 
of  Confucius.  We  have  hero  the  imperial 
prerogatives,  which  might  not  be  usurped. 
*  Ceremonies'  are  the  rules  regulating  religion 
and  society  ;  *  the  measures'  are  tlie  prescribed  | 
forma  and  dimensions  of  buildings,  carriages, 
clothe*,  &c.;  ^T  ig  said  by  Choo  He,  after 

K'ang-shing,  to  be  ^  r^J,  '  the  names  of  the 

cha^acterB.,  But  ~fr  is  properly  the  fonn  of 
the  character,  representing,  in  the  original  char- 
acters of  the  language,  the  4K,  or  figure  of  the 
object  denoted.  The  character  and  name  toge- 
ther arc  styled  if?  j  and  jfe  is  the  name  ap- 


which  are  now  used,  and  I 


propriate  to  many  characters,  written  cr  printed. 
/JT,  in  the  text,  must  denote  both  tbefom«d 
sound  of  the  character.  ^|, 4  to  diseeis/  soi 
;£-;  'to  examine,'  but  implying,  m each  cm, 
tlte  consequent  ordering  and  settling.  There 
is  a  long  and  eulogistic  note  here,  in '  Osa/*"* 
SiHanu*  PhihiophuS  on  the  admirable  najftr- 
mity  secured  by  tltese  prerogatives  throapsat 
the  Chinese  empire.  It  was  natural  for  ftwsa 
Catholic  writers,  to  regard  Chinese  uaifonany 
with  sympathy.  But  the  value,  or,  rather, »» 
value,  of  such  a  system  in  its  formative  kulneaj* 
on  the  characters  and  institutions  of  i«y? 
be  judged,  both  in  the  empire  of  China,  ana* 
the  church  of  Rome.  8.  -^,  Anow/  in* 
with  reference  to  the  time  of  Tsjm»  * 
par.  is  intended  to  account  for  Contort***** 
giving  law  to  the  empire.    It  ma  not  !■**■* 

Digitized  by  VJiOOQlC 


CO.  XXIX. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN, 


289 


Chapter  XXIX.  1.  He  who  attains  to  the  sovereignty  of  the 
empire,  having  those  three  important  things,  shall  be  able  to  effect 
that  there  shall  be  few  errors  under  his  government 

2.  However  excellent  may  have  been  the  regulations  of  those 
of  former  times,  they  cannot  be  attested.  Not  being  attested,  they 
cannot  command  credence,  and  not  being  credited,  the  people  would 
not  follow  them.  However  excellent  might  be  the  regulations  made 
by  one  in  an  inferior  situation,  he  is  not  in  a  position  to  be  honour- 
ed. Unhonoured,  he  cannot  command  credence,  and  not  being 
credited,  the  people  would  not  follow  his  rules. 

3.  Therefore  the  institutions  of  the  Ruler  are  rooted  in  his  own 
character  and  conduct,  and  sufficient  attestation  of  them  is  given  by 
the  masses  of  the  people.  He  examines  them  by  comparison  with 
those  of  the  three  kings,  and  finds  them  without  mistake.     He  seta 


jjjft,  *  the  rut  of  awheel'  4.  |§if$ ;— but  we 
must  understand  also  'the  measures,*  and  'char- 
acter*/ in  par.  2.  This  par.  would  seem  to 
reduce  most  emperors  to  the  condition  of  rots 
faineants.  5.  See  the  Ana.  HI.  ix*,  xiv.,  which 
cliapters  are  quoted  here ;  but  in  regard  to  what 
Ss  said  of  Sung,  with  an  important  variation. 

The  par.  illustrates  how  Confucius  himself  ^ 

~J\  ~jf*  'fgf,  'occupied  a  low  station,  without 
being  insubordinate.' 

29.  An  illustration  op  tub  sentence  in 
the  xxviith  chapter — '  wlfbn  uk  occupies  a 
high  situation,  he  18  not  proud  ;  '  or  bather, 
tub  8age  and  his  institutions  seen  in  their 
effect  and  ISSUE.    1.  Different  opinions  have 

obtained  as  to  what  is  intended  by  the  ^Ellft » 
1  three  important  things.7  K*ang-shing  says  thejf 
are  ^j£  ^  ^  jjjj9,  '  the  ceremonies  of  the 

three  kings,'  L  e^  the  founders  of  the  three  dy- 
nasties, Hen,  Yin,  and  Chow.  This  view  we  may 
safely  reject.  Choo  He  makes  them  to  be  the 
imperial  prerogatives,  mentioned  in  the  last 
chapter,  par.  2.  This  view  may,  possibly,  be 
correct  But  I  incline  to  the  view  of  the  com- 
mentator Ltth  (|Jj£s  Jp^),  of  the  T<ang  dynasty, 
hat  they  refer  to  the  virtue,  station,  and  time, 


which  we  hare  seen,  in  the  notes  on  the  last  ch., 
to  be  necessary  to  one  who  would  give  law  to 
the  empire.  Maou  mentions  this  view,  indicat- 
ing his  own  approval  of  it.    Wt  is  used  as  a 

verb, « to  make  few.' — '  He  shall  be  able  to  effect 
that  there  shall  be  few  errors,'  u  e.,  few  errors 

among  his  officers  and  people*    2.  By  _H  jEE 

3g*  and  ~T\  S  5ft%  K'ang-shing  understands 
*  sovereign*  and  *  minister,'  in  which,  again,  wo 
must  pronounce  him  wrong.  The  translation 
follows  the  interpr.  of  Choo  He,  it  being  under- 
stood that  the  subject  of  the  par.  is  the  regula- 
tions to  be  followed  by  the  people,  p la^jlfr 
having  a  reference  both  to  time  and  to  rank, 
~T\  £=L  ylk  must  have  the  same.  Thus  there 
is  in  it  an  allusion  to  Confucius,  and  the  way  is 
still  further  prepared  for  his  eulogium.  8.  By 
}j!|"-^r  >»  intended  the  j£  ^  ~[*  ^f* io  P1"*' 
1,— the  emperor-sage.  By  •&  must  be  intended 
all  his  institutions  and  regulations.  '  Attesta- 
tion of  them  is  given  by  the  musses  of  the  peo- 
ple ;'  i.  en  the  people  believe  in  such  a  ruler, 
and  follow  his  regulations,  thus  attesting  their 
adaptation  to  the  general  requirements  of  hu- 
manity. '  The  three  kings,'  as  mentioned  above, 


200 


THE   DOCTRItfE   OF  THE   MEAN; 


CR.XXUL 


7i 


%  nj%  it  &  ~s  w^  %  i 

f*«£/&^  M  ill  J£t  ~ - 
il  i£  ^  W  iMffi  *ill^ 

them  np  before  heaven  and  earth,  and  finds  nothing  in  them  con- 
trary to  their  mode  of  operation.  He  presents  himself  with  them 
before  spiritual  beings,  and  no  doubts  about  them  arise.  He  is  pre- 
pared to  wait  for  ths  rise  of  a  sage,  a  hundred  ages  after,  and  has 
no  misgivings. 

4.  His  presenting  himself  with  his  institutions  before  spiritual 
beings,  without  any  doubts  about  them  arising,  shows  that  he  knows 
Heaven.  His  being  prepared,  without  an)'  misgivings,  to  wait  for 
the  rise  of  a  sage  a  hundred  ages  after,  shows  that  he  knows  men. 

5.  Such  being  the  case,  the  movements  of  such  a  ruler,  illustrat- 
itiff  his  institutions,  constitute  an  example  to  the  empire  for  ages. 
His  acts  are  for  ages  a  law  to  the  cmuire.  His  words  are  for  ages 
a  lesson  to  the  empire.  Those  who  are  far  from  him,  look  longingly 
for  him;  and  those  who  are  near  him,  arc  never  wearied  with  him. 

6.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry, — u  Not  disliked  there,  not 
tired  of  here,  from  day  to  day  and  night  to  night,  will  they  per- 

general  trial  of  a  sovereign's  institutions  by  the 
efficacy  of  his  sacrifice,  in  being  responded  toby 
the  various  spirits  whom  he  worships.  This  is 
the  view  of  a  Ho  He-chen  (  jnj*  jfcjj  R|h,  and 
is  preferable  to  any  other  I  liave  met  with.  Q 

Meneius,  II.  Pt.  I.  ii.  17.  6.  See  the  Slie-king, 
IV.  i.  Bk.  II.  Ode  III.  st.  2.  It  is  a  great  descent 
to  quote  that  ode  here,  however,  for  it  is  only 
praising  the  feudal  princes  of  Cliow.    jQu  », 

'  there/  means  tlieir  own  States ;  and  A»  WTr 
'here/  is  the  imperial  court  of  Chow.  For  flff, 
the  She-king  has  ?§£.    ;00ale 


are  the  founders  of  the  three  dynasties,  viz.,  the 
great  Yu,  T'ang,  the  Completer,  and  Win  and 
Woo,  who  are  so  often  joined   together,   and 

spoken  of  as  one.  jfp^fP*  and  should  be 
read  in  the  low.  3d  tone.  I  hardly  know  what 
to  make  of  £]|  §£  ^  *tfc-    Cho*  in  hia  pq 

4  Heaven  and  Earth  here  simply  mean  right 
reason.  The  meaning  is — I  set  up  my  institutions 
here,  and  there  is  nothing  in  them  contradic- 
tory to  right  reason/  This,  of  course,  is  ex- 
plaining the  text  away.    But  who  can  do  »any- 

thing  better  with  it?  I  interpret  4ff  §J£  (S 
jjjjft,  with  rcf.  to  sacrificial  institutious,  or  the 


<W.  XXIX,— XXX. 


THE   DOCTRINE   OF   THE   MEAN. 


291 


±  ~ic  P5| 

~T  Sfi  ^£ 

>r»  51  j®» 


petuate  their  praise."  Never  has  there  been  a  ruler,  who  did  not 
realize  this  description,  that  obtained  an  early  renown  throughout 
the  empire. 

Chapter  XXX.  1.  Chung-ne  handed  down  the  doctrines  of 
Yaou  and  Shun,  as  if  they  had  been  his  ancestors,  and  elegantly  dis- 
played the  regulations  of  WSn  and  Woo,  taking  them  as  his  model. 
Above,  he  harmonized  with  the  times  of  heaven,  and  below,  he  was 
conformed  to  the  water  and  land. 

2.  He  may  be  compared  to  heaven  and  earth,  in  their  support- 
ing and  containing,  their  overshadowing  and  curtaining,  all  things. 
He  may  be  compared  to  the  four  seasons  in  their  alternating  pro- 
gress, and  to  the  sun  and  moon  in  their  successive  shining. 

3.  All  things  are  nourished  together  without  their  injuring  one 
another.  The  courses  of  the  seasons,  and  of  the  sun  and  moon,  are 
pursued  without  any  collision  among  them.     ™ 


The  smaller  energies 


30.  THB  EFLOOICM  OF  C0NFUCIU8,  AS  THE 
BSAU-IDBAL  OF  THE  PERFECTLY  SINCERE  MAN, 
THB    SAGE,    MAKING    A   TERNION   WITH   HEAVEN 

AMD  Earth.  1.  'All  ff. — See  cb.  ii.  The  va- 
rious predicates  here  are  explained  by  K 'any- 
thing, and  Ying-ta,  with  reference  to  the  *  Spring 
and  Autumn/  making  them  descriptive  of  it, 
but  such  a  view  will  not  stand  examination. 
In  translating  the  two  first  clauses,  I  hare  fol- 
lowed the  editor  of  the  :§^BJ> wno  say8 :— jjffl 

W  $ip ii  ** observed  tnat  in  wnat  **°  nand°d 

downTconfocius  began  with  Yaou  and  Shun, 
because  the  times  of  Fuh-he  and  Shin-nung 


were  very  remote.  Was  not  the  true  reason 
this,  that  he  knew  of  nothing  in  China  more 
remote  tlian  Yaou  and  Shun  ?  By  *  the  times 
of  heaven*  are  denoted  the  ceaseless  regular 
movement,  which  appears  to  belong  to  the 
hea^ns ;  and  by  the  '  water  and  the  land,* 
we  are  to  understand  the  earth,  in  contradistinc- 
tion from  heaven,  supposed  to  be  fixed  and  un- 
moveable.    f&,  '  a  statute,'  *  a  law ; '  here  used 

as  a  verb,  'to  take  as  a  law.'  jM=Rfl.  *to 
follow/  '  to  accord  with.'  The  scope  of  the  par. 
is,  that  the  qualities  of  former  sages,  of  Heaven, 
and  of  Earth,  were  all  concentrated  in  Con- 
fucius.    2.  jfS:, — read   as,  and=«j 


wad  to'fl,»»ffic1  'successively,'  *  altcrnatingly.' 


292 


THE   DOCTRINE  OF  THE   MEAft. 


CH.  XXX.—XX*!. 


are  like  river  currents ;  the  greater  energies  are  seen  in  mighty  trans- 
formations.    It  is  this  which  makes  heaven  and  earth  so  great. 

Chapter  XXXI.  1.  It  is  only  he,  possessed  of  all  sagely  quali- 
ties that  can  exist  under  heaven,  who  shows  himself  quick  in  appre- 
hension, clear  in  discernment,  of  far-reaching  intelligence,  and, 
all-embracing  knowledge,  lifted  to  exercise  rule ;  magnanimous 
generous,  benign,  and  mild,  fitted  to  exercise  forbearance ;  impul- 
sive, energetic,  firm,  and  enduring,  fitted  to  maintain  a  firm  hold; 
self-adjusted,  grave,  never  swerving  from  the  Mean,  and  correct, 
fitted  to  command  reverence ;  accomplished,  distinctive,  conoentra- 
tive,  and  searching,  fitted  to  exercise  discrimination. 

2.  All-embracing  is  he  and  vast,  deep  and  active  as  a  fountain, 
sending  forth  in  their  due  seasons  his  virtues. 


•This  describes,*  says  Choo  He,  'the  rirtue  of 
the  sage/  3.  The  wonderful  and  mysterious 
course  of  nature,  or — as  the  Chinese  conceive, — 
of  the  operations  of  Heaven  and  Earth,  are  des- 
cribed to  illustrate  the  previous  comparison  of 
Confucius. 

81.  Thb  bulooiux  ox  Confucius  cohwwu- 
»d.  Choo  He  says  that  this  chapter  is  an  ex- 
pansion of  the  clause  in  the  last  paragr.  of  the 
preceding,-— 'The  smaller  energies  are  like  river 
currents.'  Even  if  it  be  so,  it  will  still  hare 
reference  to  Confucius,  the  subject  of  the  preced- 
ing chapter.    K'ang-shing's  account  of  the  first 

paragraph  i,:-f  ^  ^  fa  jffc,  %  pf 

fig  jfij  fi|  J£  flj|  •  ' Jt  describes  how  no  one, 
who  has  not  virtue  such  as  this,  can  rule  the 
empire,  being  a  lamentation  over  the  fact  that 
while  Confucius  had  the  virtue,  he  did  not  have 
the  appointment ;'  that  is,  of  Heaven,  to  occupy 
the  throne.  Maou's  account  of  the  whole  chap- 
ter is :— « Had  it  been  that  Cbung-ne  possessed 
the  empire,  then  Chung-ne  was  a  perfect  sage. 
Being  a  perfect  sage,  he  would  certainly  have 
been  able  to  put  forth  the  greater  energies,  and 
the  smaller  energies,  of  his  virtue,  so  as  to  rule  the 
world,  and  show  himself  the  coequal  of  Heaven 


and  Earth,  in  the  maimer  here  described.'  Con- 
sidering the  whole  chapter  to  be  thus  descrip- 
tive of  Confucius,  I  was  inclined  to  translate  in 
the  past  tense,—'  It  teas  only  he,  who  could/ Ac 
Still  the  author  has  expressed  himself  so  in- 
definitely, that  I  have  preferred  translating  the 
whole,  that  it  may  read  as  the  description  of 
the  ideal  man,  who  found,  or  might  have  found, 

his  realization  in  Confucius.    1.  pj|  ^  f^jll 
ch.xxL    S  here  takes  the  place  of 


Collie  translates :— •  It  is  only  the  most 
holt  man.'  Renrasat  j — 'It  rCy  a  dans  [movers 
<pt'un  saint,  qui...  So  the  Jesuits :— 'Hiccommim- 
orat  et  commtudat  mtmme  sancti  virtutet*  But  Ao- 
tmess  and  wemctity  are  terms  which  indicate  the 
humble  and  pious  conformity  of  human  character 
and  life  to  the  mind  and  will  of  God.  The  Chinese 

idea  of  the  |B|   K    is  far  enough  from  this. 

&-&M.ML&  &  S&  'the  •«—* 

of  the  honourable  to  the  mean  is  called  JtV  It 
denotes  the  high  drawing  near  to  the  low,  te 
influence  and  rule,    2.    ^  j^9  'an  abyss,  a 

spring,'  equal,  ace  to  Choo  He,  to— f$$*{%  jR| 

^^fc'stiil  and  deep,  and  baring  l  root*  g£ 


C|L  XXXI.— XXXII. 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


298 


3.  All-embracing  and  vast,  he  is  like  heaven.  Deep  and  active 
as  a  fountain,  he  is  like  the  abyss.  He  is  seen,  and  the  people  all 
reverence  him ;  he  speaks,  and  the  people  all  believe  him ;  he  acts, 
and  the  people  all  are  pleased  with  him.  Therefore  his  fame  over- 
spreads the  Middle  kingdom,  and  extends  to  all  barbarous  tribes. 
Wherever  ships  and  carriages  reach ;  wherever  the  strength  of  man 
penetrates;  wherever  the  heavens  overshadow  and  the  earth  sustains; 
wherever  the  sun  and  moon  shine;  wherever  frosts  and  dews  fall: — 
all  who  have  blood  and  breath  unfeignedly  honour  and  love  him. 
Hence  it  is  said, — "  He  is  the  equal  of  Heaven." 

Chapter  XXXII.  1.  It  is  only  the  individual  possessed  of  the 
most  entire  sincerity  that  can  exist  under  heaven,  who  can  adjust 

HI   *£j  *  always,'— or,  in  season1— *  putt  them 

forth,'  the  Jj£,  *  them,'  having  reference  to  the 

qualities  described  in  par.  1.    8.    J^,  'he  is 

seen ;' — with  reference,  says  the  'fjjf  "gh  to ' tfte 
robes  and  cap,'  the  risibilities  of  the  ruler.  '  He 
speaks ;' — with  reference  to  his  'instructions,  de- 
clarations, orders.'  '  He  acts ; ' — with  reference 
to  his  ceremonies,  music,  punishments,  and  acts 
of  government/  4.  This  par.  is  the  glowing 
expression  of  grand  conceptions.  I8t  the  gen- 
eral name  for  the  rude  tribes  south  of  the  Mid- 
dle kingdom.    ^&  is  another  name  for  the 

M£ ,  or  rude  tribes  on  the  north.  The  two  stand 

here,  like  |j(|  ^,  Ana.  m.  v.  and  like  [JEJ 


|j^,  in  the  *fc  ££  ^,  x.  16,  as  representa- 
tives of  all  barbarous  tribes.  B&  read  cfay, 
low.  8d  tone,=H|, '  to  fall.' 

32.  The  euloqium  of  Confucius  conclud- 
ed. '  The  chapter,'  says  Cboo  He,  *  expands  the 
clause  in  the  last  par.  of  ch.  xxix.,  that  the 
greater  energies  are  seen  in  mighty  transforma- 
tions.' The  sage  is  here  not  merely  equal  to 
Heaven:— he  is  another  Heaven,  an  indepen- 
dent being,  a  God.  1.  jj^£  and  £jj|  are  pro- 
cesses in  the  manipulation  of  silk,  the  former 
denoting  the  first  separating  of  the  threads,  and 
the  latter  the  subsequent  bringing  of  them  to- 
gether, according  to  their  kinds.    Jfc  ~J\  £ 


294 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


CH.  XXXII. — XXXUL 


3  m  JiM  fait  ±  ± 


<Jc 


ec* 


the  great  invariable  relations  of  mankind,  establish  the  great  fun- 
damental virtues  of  humanity,  and  know  the  transforming  and  nur 
turing  operations  of  Heaven  and  Earth; — shall  this  individual  have 
any  being  or  any  thing  -beyond  himself  on  which  he  depends  ? 

2.  Call  him  man  in  his  ideal,  how  earnest  is  he !  Call  him  an 
abyss,  how  deep  is  he!     Call  him  Heaven,  how  vast  is  he! 

3.  Who  can  know  him,  but  he  who  is  indeed  quick  in  apprehen- 
sion, clear  in  discernment,  of  far-reaching  intelligence,  and  all-em 
bracing  knowledge,  possessing  all  heavenly  virtue? 

Chapter  XXXIII.     1.    It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  Over 


explained  of  the  ^  j|£  and  fa  jj^£,  in  ch. 

xx.  6, 12.  55  ~J*  C^C  fa"' the  ***** 
root  of  the  world ;'  evidently  with  reference  to 
the  tame  expression  in  ch.  L  4 .  &Q  is  taken  as 

>2l49t  ffi)  tl»  * ne  na8  ftn  mtuMve  apprehen- 
sion of,  and  agreement  with,  them.  It  is  not 
that  he  knows  them  merely  by  hearing  and  see- 

***-'  ^Cif^jfjff^-  This  is  joined  by 
K*ang-shing  with  the  next  par.,  and  he  inter- 
prets it  of  the  Master's  virtue,  universally  af- 
fecting all  men,  and  not  partially  deflected, 
reaching  only  to  those  near  him  or  to  few. 
Choo  He  more  correctly,  as  it  seems  to  me,  takes 
It  a*«4&  jK,  'to  depend  on.'    I  translate 

the  expansion  of  the  clause  which  is  given  in 
4  Confucius  Sinarum  Philotophu*.' — '  The  perfectly 
holy  man  of  this  kind  therefore,  since  he  is 
such  and  so  great,  how  can  it  in  any  way  be, 
that  there  is  any  thing  in  the  whole  universe, 
on  which  he  leans,  or  in  which  he  inheres,  or  on 
which  he  behooves  to  depend,  or  to  be  assisted 
by  it  in  the  first  place,  that  he  may  afterwards 
operate?'    2.  The  three  clauses  refer  severally 

to  the  three  in  the  prec  paragraph.  £T  **  vir" 
tuous  humanity  in  all  its  dimensions  and  capa- 
cities, existing  perfectly  in  the  sage.    Of  j£|  I 

do  not  know  what  to  say.  The  old  Comm.  in- 
terpret the  second  and  third  clauses,  as  if  there 

t  a  £|J  before  ffl  and  ^,  against  which 


Choo  He  reclaims,  and  justly.  In  the  J2Z  JflM 
0  $i  $i  ^  Jz- ' HellYen  "^  man  mw 

not  originally  two,  and  man  is  separate  from 
Heaven  only  by  his  having  this  body.  Of  their 
seeing  and  hearing,  their  thinking  and  revolv- 
ing, their  moving  and  acting,  men  all  say— It 
is  from  mb.  Everv  one  thus  brings  out  his 
self,  and  his  smallness  becomes  known.  Bat 
let  the  body  be  taken  away,  and  all  would  be 
Heaven.  How  can  the  body  be  taken  away? 
Simply  by  subduing  and  removing  that  self- 
having  of  the  ego.  This  is  the  taking  it  away. 
That  being  done,  so  wide  and  great  as  Heaven 
is,  my  mind  is  also  so  wide  and  great,  and  pro- 
duction and  transformation  cannot  be  separated 
from  me.  Hence  it  is  said — How  vast  u  km 
Heaven.9  Into  such  wandering  mases  of  mys- 
terious speculation  are  Chinese  thinkers  con- 
ducted by  the  text:— only  to  be  lost  in  theau 
As  it  is  said,  in  par.  3,  that  only  the  sage  cam 
know  the  sage,  we  may  be  glad  to  leave  him. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


.  T*^»*«' 


TUB  DOCTRIKE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


295 


her  embroidered  robe  she  puts  a  plain,  single  garment,"  intimating 
a  dislike  to  the  display  of  the  elegance  of  the  former.  Just  so,  it  is 
the  way  of  the  superior  man  to  prefer  the  concealment  of  his  virtue, 
while  it  daily  becomes  more  illustrious,  and  it  is  the  way  of  the 
mean  man  to  seek  notoriety,  while  he  daily  goes  more  and  more  to 
ruin.  It  is  characteristic  of  the  superior  man,  appearing  insipid, 
yet  never  to  produce  satiety ;  while  showing  a  simple  negligence,  yet 
to  have  his  accomplishments  recognized;  while  seemingly  plain,  yet 
to  be  discriminating.  He  knows  how  what  is  distant  lies  in  what  is 
near.  He  knows  where  the  wind  proceeds  from.  He  knows  how 
what  is  minute  becomes  manifested.  Such  an  one,  we  may  be  sure, 
will  enter  into  virtue. 

2,     It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  Although  the  fish  sink  and 
lie  at  the  bottom,  it  is  still  quite  clearly  seen."    Therefore  the  supe- 

^£.    ^  and  ^||  are  synonyms.   *g?(up.  3d 

tone)  iMl^"^"  is  a  gloss  by  Tsze-sze,  giving 
the  spirit  of  the  passage.  The  ode  is  understood 
to  express  the  condolence  of  the  people,  with  the 
wife  of  the  duke  of  Wei,  worthy  of,  but  denied, 
the  affection  of  her  husband.  33"Hr  x^jJC» 
yj%  K  ^  ^, — *||[  seems  here  to  correspond 
exactly  to  our  English  way,  as  in  the  transla- 
tion.   6ft^W^, — the  primary  meaning  of  6ft  is 

9j,  'bright,'  'displayed.'  ^  $$,  < displayed- 
like,'  in  opp.  to  ^  jtfo  'concealed-like.'    &f 

jS  ^  jlf ,— what  is  distant,  is  the  nation  to 
be  governed,  or  the  family  to  be  regulated; 
what  is  near,  is  the  person  to  be  cultivated.  4^| 
JH  ^  £l ,— the  wind  is  the  influence  exerted 
upon  others,  the  source  «f  which  is  one's  own 


38.  The  commencement  akd  thb  comple- 
tion op  a  viBTBorrs  course.  The  chapter  is 
understood  to  contain  a  summary  of  the  whole 
Work,  and  to  have  a  special  relation  to  the  first 
chapter.  There,  a  commencement  is  made  with 
Heaven,  as  the  origin  of  our  nature,  in  which 
are  grounded  the  laws  of  virtuous  conduct. 
This  ends  with  Heaven,  and  exhibits  the  pro- 
gress of  virtue,  advancing  step  by  step  in  man, 
till  it  is  equal  to  that  of  High  Heaven.  There 
are  eight  citations  from  the  Book  of  Poetry, 
but  to  make  the  passages  suit  his  purpose,  the 
author  allegorizes  them,  or  alters  their  meaning, 
at  his  pleasure.  Origen  took  no  more  license 
*ith  the  scriptures  of  the  old  and  new  Testa- 
ment than  Tsze-sze  and  even  Confucius  himself 
do  with  the  Book  of  Poetry.  1.  The  first  requi- 
site in  the  pursuit  of  virtue  w,  that  the  learner  think 
°f  kU  own  improvement,  and  do  not  act  from  a  regard 
to  others.    j|jfe  Q  .—see  the  She-king,  L  v.  Ode 

HL  it.  1.,  where  we  read,  however,  s$££&  §£ 


296 


THB  DOCTBINB  OF  THE  MEAN. 


X  f*  mM  ^%  Wi*»&  £ 


rior  man  examines  his  heart,  that  there  may  be  nothing  wrong  there, 
and  that  he  may  have  no  cause  for  dissatisfaction  with  himself. 
That  wherein  the  superior  man  cannot  be  equalled  is  simply  this,— 
his  work  which  other  men  cannot  see. 

8.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  Looked  at  in  your  apart- 
ment, be  there  free  from  shame,  where  you  are  exposed  to  the  light 
of  heaven."  Therefore,  the  superior  man,  even  when  he  is  Dot 
moving,  has  a  feeling  of  reverence,  and  while  he  speaks  not,  he  has  tk 
feeling  of  truthfulness. 

4.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  In  silence  is  the  offering 
presented,  and  the  spirit  approached  to ;  there  is  not  the  slightest 
contention."  Therefore  the  superior  man  does  not  use  rewards,  and 
the  people  are  stimulated  to  virtue.  He  does  not  show  anger,  and 
the  people  are  awed  more  than  by  hatchets  and  battle-axes. 

5.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  What  needs  no  display  is 

virtue,    ^^£gg,-comp.ch.L*.     pj* 

fj3.«'it  may  be  granted  to  inch  an  one,'  fitf 


being  in  the  tense  of  ||£.  2.  The  superior  man 
gouty  on  to  virtue,  i$  watchful  over  kimtc/f,  when 
Me  is  alone,  §4  •^-, — tee  the  She-king,  II.  iv. 
Ode  VIII.  it.  11.  The  ode  appears  to  hare 
been  written  by  some  officer  who  was  bewailing 
the  disorder  and  tnisgovernment  of  his  day. 
This  is  one  of  the  comparisons  which  he  uses ; 
— the  people  are  like  fl  shin  a  shallow  pond,  un- 
able to  save  themselves  by  diving  to  the  bottom. 
The  application  of  this  to  the  superior  man, 
dealing  with  himself,  in  the  bottom  of  his  soul, 
so  to  speak,  and  thereby  realising  what  is  good 

and  right,  is  very  far-fetched.     *fe,  'the  will,' 

is  here=4*\  <the  whole  mind*'  the  9eU'  ** 
We  have  here  substantially  the  same  subject  as 
in  the  last  par.  The  ode  is  the  same  which  is 
quoted  in  ch.  xvi.  4,  and  the  citation  is  from 
the  same  stanza  of  it.    J§|  $fi,  ace.  to  Choo 


He,  was  the  north-west  corner  of  ancient  apart- 
ments, the  spot  most  secret  and  retired.  The 
single  panes,  in  the  roofs  of  Chinese  bouses,  go 
now  by  the  name,  the  light  of  heaven  leaking 

in  (^)  through  them.  Looking  at  the  whole 
stanza  of  the  ode,  we  must  conclude  that  there 
is  reference  to  the  tight  of  heaven,  and  the  in- 
spection of  spiritual  beings,  as  specialty  con- 
nected with  the  spot  intended.  4.  Tkerembtf 
the  proceem*  described  im  the  too  precetL  pen. 

g£  £J,_teeth*  She-king,  IV.  iii.  Ode  H.  * 
2,  where  f or  ^  we  have  g£.  jjg  reads*, 
and»^.  The  ode  describes  the  imperial  vor- 
ship  of  T*ang,  the  founder  of  the  Shangdvnstf?. 
The  first  clause  belongs  to  the  emperor'i  set 
and  demeanour:  the  second  to  the  effect  of  these 
on  his  assistants  in  the  service.  They  vera 
awed  to  reverence,  and  had  no  striving  saoof 
themselves.  The  ££;£)[£  were  anciently  gi** 
by  the  emperor  to  a  prince,  as  symbolic  of  bn 
investiture  with  a  plenipoteat  authority  tops* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


291 


=     iUbi  0  *  M. 


Ainjf  jPC  iiij> 


*t  ^t. 


trtue.     All  the  princes  imitate  it."    Therefore,  the  superior  man    \ 
sing  sincere  and  reverential,  the  whole  world  is  conducted  to  a  state 
f  happy  tranquillity.  ' 

6.  It  is  said  in  the  Book  of  Poetry,  "  I  regard  with  pleasure 
our  brilliant  virtue,  making  no  great  display  of  itself  in  sounds  and 
ppearances."  The  Master  said,  "  Among  the  appliances  to  trans- 
>rm  the  people,  sounds  and  appearances  are  but  trivial  influences. 
t  is  said  in  another  ode,  i  His  virtue  is  light  as  a  hair.*  Still,  a 
air  will  admit  of  comparison  as  to  its  size.  l  The  doings  of  the 
upreme  Heaven  have  neither  sound  nor  smell.' — That  is  perfect 
irtue." 

The  above  is  the  thirty-third  chapter.  Tsze-sze  having  carried  his 
descriptions  to  the  extremest  point  in  the  preceding  chapters,  turns 
bade  in  this,  and  examines  the  source  of  his  subject;  and  then 

the  She-king,  m.  L  Ode  VH.  st.  7.  The  < /' 
is  God,  who  announces  to  king  Win  the  reason* 
why  he  had  called  him  to  execute  his  judg- 
ments. W&n's  virtue,  not  sounded  nor  embla- 
zoned, might  come  near  to  the  ^K  ffij  of  last 

par.,  but  Confucius  fixes  on  the  y^  to  show 
its  shortcoming.  It  had  tome,  though  not  large 
exhibition.  He  therefore  quotes  again  from  ILL 
iii.  Ode  VL  st  6,  though  away  from  the  original 
intention  of  the  words.  But  it  does  not  satisfy 
him  that  virtue  should  be  likened  even  to  a 
hair.  He  therefore  finally  quotes  IIL  i.  Ode  h 
st  7,  where  the  imperceptible  working  of  Hea- 
ven (lj/=jfe),  in  producing  the  overthrow  of 

the  Tin  dynasty,  is  set  forth  as  without  sound 
or  smell.    That  is  his  highest  conception  of  the 

«rt«w««lpowrofTitt«e.Digitizedby( 


h  the  rebellious  and  refractory.    The  ££  is 

escribed  as  a  large-handled  axe,  eight  catties 
i  weight  I  call  it  a  battle  axe,  because  it 
as  with  one  that  king  Woo  despatched  the 
rrant  Chow.    5.    The  tame  subject  continued. 

j£  Q,— see  the  She-king,  IV.  L  Bk.  I.  Ode 

v .  si.  8.  But  in  the  She-king  we  must  trans- 
tte. — ♦  There  is  nothing  more  illustrious  than 
lie  virtue  of  the  tovereign,  all  the  princes  will 
oUow  it.'  Tsze-sze  puts  another  meaning  on 
be  words,  and  makes  them  introductory  to 

he  next  par.    fSt  «3p  must  here  be  the  JJ? 

^~"J\  5§-  of  ch.  xxix.  Thus  it  is  that  a  con- 
tact shuffle  of  terms  seems  to  be  going  on,  and 
lie  subject  before  us  is  all  at  once  raised  to  a 
tigfcer,  and  inaccessible  platform.     6.   Virtue 

*  iU  highest  decree  and  influence,    Sk -7 


298 


THE  DOCTBIKE  OJ  THE  MEAN. 


fo  ^75  m  &  M  %  W  £>H 


again  from  the  work  of  the  learner,  free  from  all  selfishness,  and 
watchful  over  himself  when  he  is  alone,  he  carries  out  his  descrip- 
tion, till  by  easy  steps  he  brings  it  to  the  consummation  0f  ike 
whole  empire  tranquillized  by  simple  and  sincere  reverenticuness. 
He  farther  eulogizes  its  mysteriousness,  till  he  speaks  of  it  at  last 
as  ivitfumt  sound  or  smell.  He  here  takes  up  the  sum  of  his  whole 
Work,  and  speaks  of  it  in  a  compendious  manner.  Most  deep 
and  earnest  was  he  in  thus  going  again  over  his  ground,  admon- 
ishing and  instructing  men : — shall  the  learner  not  do  his  utmost 
in  the  study  of  the  Work  t 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEXES. 


INDEX  I. 


0¥  SUBJECTS  IN  THE  CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS, 


Ability,  various  of  Conf.,  IX,  vi. 

Able  officers,  eight,  of  Chow,  XVIIL  xi. 

Abroad,  when  a  son  may  go,  IV.  xix. 

Accomplishments  come  after  duty,  I.  vi. — 
blended  with  solid  excellence,  VI.  xvi. 

Achievement  of  government,  the  great,  XIII.  ix. 

Acknowledgment  of  Conf.  in  estimating  him- 
self, VII.  xxxii. 

Acting  heedlessly,  against,  VH.  xxvii. 

Actions  should  always  be  right,  XTV.  iv.— of 
Conf.  were  lessons  and  laws,  XVII.  xix. 

Adaptation  for  government  of  Yen  Yung,  Ac, 
VI.  i.— of  Tsfe-loo,  &c,  VI.  vi. 

Admiration,  Yen  Yuen's,  of  Conf.  doctrines,  IX. 
x. 

Admonition  of  Conf,  to  Tsze-loo,  XI.  xiv. 

Advanced  years,  improvement  difficult  in,  XVH. 
xx  vi. 

Adversity,  men  are  known  in  times  of,  IX,  xxvii. 

Advice  against  useless  expenditure,  XI.  xiii. 

Age,  the  vice  to  be  guarded  against  in,  X  VL  vii. 

Aim,  the  chief,  L  xvi. 

Aims,  of  Tsze-loo,  Ts&ng-sih,  Ac,  XL  xxv. 

An  all-pervading  unity,  the  knowledge  of,  Conf. 


•pervadii 
XV.  ii. 


Anarchy  of  Conf.  time,  III.  v. 
Ancient  rites,  how  Conf.  cleared  to,  III,  xvii. 
Ancients,  their  slowness  to  speak,  IV.  xxii. 
Antiquity,  Conf.  fondness  for,  VIL  xix. — decay 

of  the  monuments  of,  IIL  ix. 
Anxiety  of  parents,  IL  vi.— of  Conf.  about  the 

training  of  his  disciples,  V.  ii. 
Appearances,  fair,  are  suspicious,  L  uX,  k  XVH. 

xvii 
Appellations  for  the  wife  of  a  prince,  XVI.  xiv. 
Appreciation,  what  conduct  will  insure,  XV.  v. 
Approaches  of  the  unlikely,  readily  met  by 

Conf.,  VIL  xxviii 
Approbation,  Conf.,  of  Nan  Yung,  XL  v. 
Aptitude  of  the  Kcum-Uze,  IL  xii. 
Archery,  contention  in,  III.  vii.— a  discipline 

of  virtue,  m.  xvi. 
Ardent  and  cautious  disciples,  Conf.  obliged  to 

be  content  with,  Xm.  xxi. 
Ardour  of  Tsze-loo,  V.  vi. 
Art  of  governing,  XII.  xiv. 
Assent  without  reformation,  a  hopeless  case, 

IX.  xxiii. 
Attachment  to  Conf.  of  Yen  Yuen,  XI.  xxiii. 
Attainment,  different  stages  of,  VL  xviii. 


Attainments  of  Hwuy,  like  those  of  Conf.,  VIL 

x. 
Attributes  of  the  true  scholar,  XIX.  i. 
Auspicious  omens,  Conf.  gives  up  hope  for  want 

of,  IX.  viii. 
Avenge  murder,  how  Conf.,  wished  to,  XTV* 

xxii. 


B 


Bad  name,  the  danger  of  a,  XIX.  xx. 
Barbarians,  how  to  civilize,  IX.  xiii. 
Beclouding*  of  the  mind,  XVU.  viii. 

Bed,  manner  of  Conf.  in,  X.  xvi.  

Benefits  derived  from  studying  the  Odes,  XVTL 

ix. 
Benevolence,  to  be  exercised  with  prudence,  VL 

xxiv.— and  wisdom,  XIL  xxii.         ^^ 
Blind,  consideration  of  Conf.  for  the,  XV.  xlL 
Boldness,  excessive  of  Tsze-loo,  VH.  x. 
Burial,  Conf.  dissatisfaction  with  Hwuy's,  XL 

x. 
Business,   every  man  should  mind  his  own. 

VIII.  xiv.,  &  XTV.  xxvii. 


C 


Calmness  of  Conf.  in  danger,  VII.  xxii 

Capacity  of  Mang  Kung-ch'8,  XTV.  xii. 

Capacities  of  the  superior  and  inferior  man,  XV. 
xxxiii. 

Careful,  about  what  things  Conf.  was,  VH.  xii. 

Carriage,  Conf.  at  and  in  his,  X.  xvii.— Conf* 
refuses  to  sell  his,  to  assist  a  needless  expen- 
diture, XI.  vii 

Caution,  advantages  of,  IV.  xxiii,— repentance 
avoided  by,  I.  xiii,— in  speaking,  XIL  iii., 
and  XV.  vii. 

Ceremonies  and  music,  XL  i.— end  ot  L  xii.— 
impropriety  in,  III  x.— influence  of  in  govern- 
ment, IV.  xiii.— regulated  according  to  their 
object,  III.  iv.— secondary  and  ornamental 
III.  viii.— vain  without  virtue,  HL  iii. 

Character  (s),  admirable,  of  Tsze-yu,  &c^  XV, 
vi.— differences  in,  owing  to  habit,  XVII.  in- 
different, of  two  dukes,  XIV.  xvi— disliked 
by  Conf,,  and  Tsze-kung,  XVIL  xxiv.— how 
Conf.  dealt  with  different,  XI,  xxi.— how  to 
determine,  II.  x.— lofty,  of  Shun  and  Yu,  VTII. 
xviii.— of  four  disciples,  XL  xvii.— of  Kong  - 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


300 


SUBJECTS  IN  THE  ANALBCTS. 


INDEX  L 


•huh  Wto,  XIV.  xiv.— of  Tao-t'ae  Meen-ming, 

VL  xii. — various  elements  of  in  Conf.,  VII. 

xxxvii. — what  may  be  learnt  from,  IV.  xvii 
Characteristics,  of  perfect  virtue,  XIII.  xix.— of 

ten  disciples,  XI.  ii. 
Claimed,  what  Conf.,  VII.  xxxiii. 
Classes  of  men,  in  relation  to  knowledge,  four, 

XVI.  ix. — only  two  whom  practice  cannot 

change,  XVII.  iii. 
Climbing  the   heavens,  equalling  Conf.  like, 

XIX.  xxv. 
Common  practices,  some  indifferent  and  others 

not,  IX.  iii. 
Communications  to  be  proportioned  to  suscep- 
tibility, VI.  xix. 
Comparison  of  Sze  and  Shang,  XI.  xv. 
Comparisons,  against  making,  XIV.  xxxi. 
Compass  and  vigour  of  mind  necessary  to  a 

scholar,  VIII.  vii. 
Compassion,  how  a  criminal-judge  should  cher- 
ish, XVIII.  xix 
Complete  man,  of  the,  XIV.  xiii.— -virtue,   I. 

xiv.,  and  VI.  xvi. 
Concealment,  not  practised  by  Conf.  with  his 

disciples,  VII.  xxiii. 
Concubines,  difficult  to  treat.  XVII.  xxv. 
Condemnation  of  Tsang  Woo-chung,  XIV.  xv. 

—of  Conf.  for  seeking  employment,  XIV.  xli. 
Condition,  ouly  virtue  adapts  a  man  to  his,  IV. 

ii. 
Conduct  that  will  be  everywhere  appreciated, 

XV.  v. 
Confidence,  enjoying,  necessary  to  serving  and 

to  ruling,  XIX.  x. 
Connate,  Conf.  knowledge  not,  VII.  xix. 
Consideration,  of  Conf.  for  the  blind,  XV.  xli— 

a  generous,  of  others,  recommended,  XVIIL 

x. 
Consolation  to  Tsze-new,  when  anxious  about 

his  brother,  XII.  v. 
Constancy  of  mind,  importance  of,  XIII.  xxii 
Constant  Mean,  the,  VI.  xxvii. 
Contemporaries  of  Conf.  described,  XVI.  xi. 
Contention,  the  superior  man  avoids,  III.  vii. 
Contentment  in  poverty  ot  Tsze-loo,  IX.  xxvi 

— of  Conf.  with  his  condition,  IX.  xi. — of  the 

officer  King,  XIII.  viii. 
Contrast  of  Hwuy  and  Tsze,  XI.  xviii. 
Conversation,  with  Chung-kung,  XII.  ii. — with 

Tsze-chang,  XII.  vi.;  vii.:  XX.  ii.— with  Tsze- 

kung,  XIV.  xviii.— with  Tsze-loo,  XIV.  xiii.; 

xvii.— with    Tsze-new,  XIL  iii.— with  Yen 

Yuen,  XII.  i. 
Countenance,  the,  in  filial  piety,  I.  viii. 
Courage,  not  doing  right  from  want  of,  II.  xxiv. 
Criminal  judge,    should   cherish    compassion, 

XIX.  xix. 
Culpability  of  not  reforming  known  faults,  XV. 


D 


Danger,  Conf.  assured  in  time  of,  IX.  v. 

Dead,  offices  to  the,  I.  ix. 

Death,  Conf.  evades  a  question  about,  XL  xi. 
—how  Conf.  felt  Hwny's,  XL  viii.;  ix.— with- 
out regret,  IV.  viii. 

Declined,  what  Conf.,  to  be  reckoned,  VTL 
xxxiii. 

Defects  of  former  times  become  modern  vices, 
XVII.  xvi 


Defence,  of  himself  by  Conf,  XIV.  xxxtL— of 
his  own  method  of  teachiug,  bv  Tare-he*, 
XIX  xii— of  Tsze-loo,  by  Conf.,  XI.  xiv. 

Degeneracy,  of  Conf.  age,  VL  xiv. — instance  el 
XV.  xxv. 

Delusions,  how  to  discover,  XIL  x.;  xxi. 

Demeanour  of  Conf.,  X.  U  to  v.;  xiiL 

Departure  of  Conf.,  from  Loo,  XVIII.  iv, — from 
Ts*e,  XVIII.  iii. 

Depreciation,  Conf.  above  the  reach  oC,  XIX 
xxiv. 

Description  of  himself  as  a  learner,  bv  Coat 
VIL  xviii. 

Desire  and  ability,  required  in  disciplea,  VIL 
viii 

Development  of  knowledges)  IL  xL  

Differences  of  character,  owing  to  habit,  jlViL 
ii 

Dignity,  necessary  in  a  ruler,  XV.  rxxii. 

Disciples,  anxiety  about  training,  V.  xxL 

Discrimination  of  Conf.  in  rewarding  officers, 
VL  iii. — without  suspiciousness,  the  merit 
of,  XIV.  xxxiii  

Dispersion  of  the  musicians  of  Loo,  XVU1.  xi 

Distinction,  notoriety  not,  XII-  xx. 

Distress,  the  superior  man  above,  XV.  L 

Divine  mission,  Conf  assurance  of  a,  VIL  xxii: 
IX.  v. 

Doctrine  of  Conf.  admiration  of,  IX.  x. 

Dreams  of  Conf.  affected  by  disappointments, 
VII.  v. 

Dress,  rules  of  Conf.,  in  regard  to  his,  X.  vi 

Dying  counsels  to  a  man  in  high  station,  VUL 
iv. 

Dynasties,  Yin,  Hea,  and  Chow,  "VUL  iv. :  III. 
xx.— Yin  and  Hea,  III.  ix.— Chow,  Ao,  IIL 
xiv.— certain  rules  exemplified  in  the  ancient, 
—eight  able  officers  of  the  Chow,  XVIII.  xi— 
three  worthies  of  the  Yin,  XVHI. 
three,  XV.  xxiv. 


£ 


Earnest  student,  Hwuy  the,  IX.  xix. 

Earnestness  in  teaching,  of  Conf.,  IX.  vii 

Egotism,  instance  of  freedom  from,  VIII.  v. 

Eight  able  officers  of  the  Chow  dynasty,  XVUL 
xi. 

Emolument,  learning  for,  IL  xviii. — shameful 
to  care  only  for,  XIV.  i 

End  the,  crowns  the  work,  IX.  xxi. 

Enjoyment,  advantageous  and  injurious  sources 
of,  XVI.  v. 

Equalled,  Conf.  cannot  be,  XIX.  xxv. 

Error,  how  acknowledged  by  Conf.,  VII.  xxx. 

Essential,  what  is,  in  different  services,  III.  xxvi 

Estimate,  Conf  humble  of  himself.  VII.  ii;  iii : 
IX.  xv.:  XIV.  xxx.— of  what  he  could  do  if 
employed,  XIII  x. 

Estimation  of  others,  not  a  man's  coacern, 
XIV.  xxxii. 

Example,  better  than  force,  II.  xx. — govern- 
ment efficient  by,  &c.,  XII.  xvii. ;  xviii ;  xix. ; 
— the  secret  of  rulers*  success,  XIII.  i. — va- 
lue of,  in  those  in  high  stations,  VIII.  ii 

Excess  and  defect  equally  wrong,  XI.  xv. 

Expenditure,  against  useless,  XI.  xiii 

External,  the,  may  be  predicated  from  the  in- 
ternal, XIV.  v. 

Extravagant  speech,  hard  to  be  made  good 
XIV.  xxi. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


EOTDBX  I. 


SUBJECTS  IN  THE  ANALECTS. 


301 


appearances  are  suspicion!,  I.  iii.,  6  XVII. 
xwii. 
'acting,  rales  observed  by  Conf.,  when,  X.  rii. 
'other's  vices,  no  discredit  to  a  virtuous  son, 

VI.  iv. 
*a,ults  of  men,  characteristic  of  their  class,  IV. 

vii. 
^eelings,  need  not  always  be  spoken,  XTV.  iv. 
»*icl«iity  of  his  disciples,  Conf.  memory  of,  XI.  ii. 
filial  piety,  I.  xi. :  IV.  xix. ;  xx. ;  xxi. — argu- 
ment for,  II.  vi.— cheerfulness  in,  II.  viii. — 
the  foundation  of  virtuous  practice,  I.  ii.— of 
IMeen  Tsze-keen,  XI.  iv. — of  Ming  Chwang, 
XIX.  xviii.— reverence  in,  IL  vii.— seen  in 
care  of  the  person,  VIII.  iii. 
Firmness  of  superior  man,  based  on  right,  XV. 

xjtxvi. 
Fi we  excellent  things  to  be  honoured,  XX.  ii. 
— things    which   constitute   perfect   virtue, 
XVII.  vi. 
Flattery  of  sacrificing  to  others'  ancestors,  II. 

xxiv. 
Food,  rules  of  Conf.  about  his,  X.  viii. 
Foreknowledge,  how  far  possible,  II.  xxiii. 
Forethought,  necessity  of,  XV.  xi. 
Formalism,  against,  III.  iv. 
Former  times,  Conf.  preference  for,  XI.  i. 
Forward  youth,  Conf.  employment  of  a,  XTV. 

xlvii. 
Foundation  of  virtue,  I.  ii. 
Four  bad  things,  to  be  put  away,  XX.  ii. — 
classes   of   men  in  relation  to  knowledge, 
XVI.  ix. 
Frailties  from  which  Conf.  was  free,  IX.  iv. 
Fraternal  submission,  I.  ii. 
Friends,  rule  for  choosing,  I.  viii.,  &  IX.  xxiv. 

— trait  of  Conf.  in  relation  to,  X.  xv. 
Friendship,  how  to  maintain,  V.  xvi. — Tare- 

chang's  virtue  too  high  for,  XIX.  xvi. 
Friendships,  what,  advantageous  and  injurious, 

XVI.  iv. 
Friwolou8  talkers,  against,  XV.  xvi. 
Funeral  rites,  Conf.  dissatisfaction  with  Hwuy's, 

XL  x  — to  parents,  I.  ix. 
Furnace  the,  and  the  S.  W.  Corner,  of  a  house, 
ill.  xiii. 


G 


Gain,  the  mean  man*s  concern,  IV.  xvi 

Generosity  of  Pih-e  and  Shnh-ts'e,  V.  xxii. 

Glib-tongued,  Conf.  not,  XIV.  xxxiv. 

Glibness  of  tongue  and  beauty,  esteemed  by  the 
age,  VI.  xiv. 

Glossing  faults,  a  proof  of  the  mean  man,  XIX. 
viii. 

Gluttony  and  idleness,  case  of,  hopeless,  XVII. 
xxii. 

God,  address  to,  XX.  i. 

Golden  rule,  expressed  with  negatives,  V.  xi.: 
XV.  xxiii. 

Good  fellowship  of  Conf.,  VII.  xxxi. 

Good,  learning  leads  to,  VIIL  xii. 

Good  man,  the,  XI.  xix. — we  must  not  judge  a 
man  to  be,  from  his  discourse,  XI.  xx. 

Governing,  the  art  of,  XIL  xiv.— without  per- 
sonal effort,  XV.  iv. 
Government,  good,  *een  (Vora  its  effects,  XIII. 


xvi. — good,  how  on,ly  obtained,  XII.  xi. — may 
be  conducted  efficiently;  how.  XX.  ii.— moral 
in  its  end,  XII.  xvii.— principles  of,  I.  v. — 
requisites  of,  XII.  vii. 

Gradual  progress  of  Conf.  II.  iv.— communi- 
cation of  his  doctrine,  V.  xii. 

Grief.  Conf.  vindicates  his  for  Hwuy,  XL  ix. 

Guiding  principle  of  Conf.,  XVIII.  viii. 

H 

Happiness  of  Conf.  among  his  disciples,  XI.  xiL 

—of  Hwuy  in  poverty,  VI.  ix. 
Haste,  not  to  be  desired  in  government,  XII L 

xvii. 
Heaven,  Conf.  rested  in  the  ordering  of,  XIV. 

xxxviii. — knew  him,  Conf.  thought  that,  XIV. 

xxxvii — no  remedy  for  sin  against.  III.  xiiL 
Hesitating  faith,  Tsze-chang  on,  XIX.  ii. 
High  aim  proper  to  a  student,  VL  x. — things-, 

too  much  minding  of,  XIX.  xv. 
Home,  Conf.  at,  X.  xvi.— how  Conf.  could  be 

not  at,  XVII.  xx. 
Hope,  Conf.  gives  up,  for  want  of  auspicious 

omens,  IX.  viii. 
Hopeless  case,  of  gluttony  and  idleness,  XVII. 

xxii. — of  those  who  assent  to  advice  without 

reforming,  IX.  xxiii. — of  those  who  will  not 

think,  XV.  xv. 
House  and  wall,  the  comparison  of  a,  XIX.  xxiii 
Humble  claim  of  Conf.  for  himself,  V.  xxvii.— 

estimate  of  himself,  VII.  ii. ;  iii. :  IX.  xv. : 

XIV.  xxx. 
Humility  of  Conf.,  VII.  xxvi. 
Hundred  years,  what  good  government  could 

effect  in  a,  XIII.  xi. 


I 


Idleness  of  Tsae  Yu,  V.  ix.*-case  of,  hopeless, 
XVII.  xxii. 

Ignorant  man's  remark  about  Conf.,  IX.  ii 

Impatience,  danger  of,  XV.  xxvi. 

Imperial  rites,  usurpation  of.  III.  i. ;  ii. ;  vi. 

Improvement,  self,  II.  xviii. — difficult  in  ad- 
vanced years,  XVII.  xxvi. 

Incompetency,  our  own,  a  fit  cause  of  concern, 
XV.  xviii. 

Indifference  of  the  officer  King  to  riches,  XIII. 
viii. 

Indignation  of  Conf.  at  the  usurpation  of  im- 
perial rites,  III.  i. ;  ii.— at  the  support  of  us- 
urpation and  extortion  by  a  disciple,  XI.  xvi. 
— at  the  wrong  overcoming  the  right,  XVII. 
xviii. 

Inferior  pursuits,  inapplicable  to  great  objects, 
XIX.  iv. 

Instruction,  how  a  man  may  find,  VII.  xxii 

Instructions  to  a  son  about  government,  X VIIL 
x. 

Insubordination,  worse  than  meanness,  VII. 
xxxv. — different  causes  of,  VIII.  x. 

Intelligence,  what  constitutes,  XII.  vi. 

Intercourse,  character  formed  by,  V.  ii.— of 
Conf.  with  others,  traits  of,  X.  xi.— with 
others,  different  opinions  on,  XIX.  iii. 

Internal,  the,  not  predicable  from  the  external, 

XIV.  v. 
Ironical,  admonition,  XIII.  xiv. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


30* 


srWBCM  IX  THE  ANALECTS. 


tttDfct  J. 


Jealousy  of  others'  talents,  against,  XV.  x.;  iii. 

Joy  of  Conf.  independent  of  outward  circum- 
stances, VII.  xv. 

Judgment  of  Conf.  concerning  Tsse-ch'an,  Ac., 
XIV.  x.— of  retired  worth/,  ou  Conf,  XIV* 
xlii* 


Ke*n-Use,  See  Superior  man* 

Kilting,  not  to  be  talked  of  by  mlers,  XIL  xix* 

Knowing  and  not  knowing,  ft*  xrii. 

Knowledge,  disclaimed  by  Conf*,  IX.  vii.— 
four  classes  of  men  in  relation  to,  XVL  ix* 
—not  lasting  without  virtue,  XV.  xxxii.— 
of  Conf.  not  connate,  VIII*  xix. — sources  of 
Conf*,  XIX.  xxii*— subserves  benevolence,  IL 
xxii 


lament  over  moral  error  added  to  natural  de* 
feet,  VIE.  xvL— sickness  of  Pih-new,  VI. 
viii.— persistence  in  error,  V*  xxvi— rarity  of 
the  love  of  virtue,  IV*  vi— the  rash  reply  of 
Tsae  Go,  III.  xxi. — the  waywardness  of  men, 
VI.  xiv.— of  Conf*,  that  men  did  not  know 
him,  XIV.  xxxvii. 

Language,  the  chief  virtue  of*  XV*  xl. 

Learner  the,  I.  L;  xiv.— Conf*  describes  himself 
as  a,  VH.  xviii. 

Learning  and  propriety  combined,  VI*  xxrM  k 
XII.  xv. — Conf.  fondness  for,  V.  xxvii. — 
different  motives  for,  XIV.  zxv.— end  of,  II. 
xviii.— how  to  be  pursued,  VI.  xin  ft  VIII. 
xvii. — in  order  to  virtue,  XIX.  vi* — necessity 
of,  to  complete  virtue,  XVII.  viii.— quickly 
leads  to  good,  VIII.  xii. — should  not  cease  or 
be  intermitted,  IX.  xviii. — substance  of,  I.  vii. 
— the  indications  of  a  real  love  of,  XIX.  v.— 
the  student's  workshop,  XIX.  vii* 

Lesson,  of  prudence,  XIV*  ix*— to  parents  and 
ministers,  XIV.  viii.— to  rulers,  VIIL  x»— to 
Tsse-loo,  XIII*  i* 

Lessons  and  laws,  Conf.  actions  were,  XVTL 
xix. 

Libation,  pouring  out  of,  in  sacrifice,  HI.  x. 

Life,  human,  valued  by  Cent,  X.  xii. — without 
uprightness,  not  true,  VI.  xvii. 

Likings  and  dislikings  of  others,  in  determining 
a  man's  character,  XIII,  xxiv„  ft  XV,  xxvii 

Literary  acquirements,  useless  without  practical 
ability,  XIII*  v, 

Litigation,  how  Tsze-loo  could  settle,  XII,  xii, 
—it  is  better  to  prevent.  XJJ.  xiii. 

Love  of  virtue  rare,  IV.  vi„  ft  IX.  xvii. 

jiove  to  learn,  of  Conf.,  V.  xxvii,— of  JJwuy, 
XI,  vi— rarity  oft  VI,  ii. 

Loving  and  hating  aright,  IV,  iii, 


M 


Madman,  the,  of  Ts'oo,  iviii*  vf 

Man,  m  relation  to  principles  of  duty,  XV, 


Manhood,  the  vice  to  be  guarded  against  a, 
XVLviL 

Manner  of  Conf.  when  unoccupied*  VTL  iv. 

Marriage-making,  Conf.  in,  V.  L 

Mat,  rule  of  Conf.  about  his,  X.  ix* 

Maturing  of  character,  rules  for,  VH.  vi 

Mean  man,  glosses  his  facts,  XIX.  viiL  See 
Superior  man. 

Meanness  of  Wei-shang,  V.  xxitt* — not  so  W 
as  insubordination,  VH.  xxxv. 

Mercenary  officers,  impossible  to  serve  along 
with,XVILxv. 

Merit  of  Kung-shuh  Win,  XIV.  xix.— of  Kra 
Chung,  XIV.  xviL  \  xviii*— virtue  of  conceal- 
ing, VL  xiii 

Messenger,  an  admirable,  XTV.  xxvi. 

Military  affairs,  Conf.  refuses  to  talk  of,  XV.  i 

Minding  too  much  high  things,  XIX.  xv. 

Minister*  the  faithful,  XV.  xxxrii. 

Ministers,  great  and  ordinary,  XX  xxiii— 
importance  of  good  and  able,  XTV.xx. — must 
be  sincere  and  upright,  XIV*  xxiii. — should 
be  strict  and  decided,  XIV.  viii. 

Mission  of  Conf,  Yen  Yuen's  confidence  in,  XL 
xxii* 

Model  student,  fond  recollections  of  a,  IX  xx. 

Moral  appliances  to  be  preferred  in  govt-,  II  iii. 

Mourners,  Conf.  sympathy  with,  VII.  ix. ;  ft  X 
xvi,  

Mourning,  three  rears  for  parents,  XVII.  xxL 
— government  now  carried  on  in  time  c<  XIV. 
xlili. — the  trappings  of,  may  be  dispensed 
with,  XIX.  xiv* 

Murder  of  the  duke  of  Ts«e,  XIV*  xxii* 

Music,  and  ceremonies,  vain  without  virtue,  HI. 
iii.,— effect  of,  Vm.  viii.— effect  of  on  Conf, 
VII.  xii.— influence  of  in  government,  XVII. 
iy^~ot  Shun  and  Woo  compared,  HI.  xxv*—on 
the  playing  of,  III.  xxiii.-^-service  rendered  to* 
by  Conf,  IX.  xiv. — the  sound  of  instruments 
does  not  constitute,  XVII.  xi.         

Musicians  of  Loo,  the,  dispersion  of,  XVIII.  ix* 

Musiomaster,  praise  of  a,  VIII*  xv. 


K 


Name,  danger  of  a  bad,  XIX*  xx-— without 
reality,  VI.  xxiii.  

Names,  importance  of  being  correct,  XtH.  Si. 

Narrow-mindedness,  T*se«chang  on,  XIX.  ii. 

Natural'duty,  and  uprightness  in  collision, 
XIII.  xviii. — ease  In  ceremonies  to  be  prised, 
I.  xii.— qualities  which  are  favourable  to  vir- 
tue, XIII*  xxvii. 

Nature  of  a  man,  grief  brings  out  the  real,  XIX. 
xvii. 

Neighbourhood,  what  constitutes  the  excellence 
of  a,  IV.  i. 

Nine  subjects  of  thought  to  the  superior  man, 
XVI.  x. 

Notoriety,  not  true  distinction,  XD.  xx. 


0 


Ode,  (s),  the  C^'ftdnandSsnotf-ftaa,  XVTJ.Xj— 
the  Kwan+ts'ea,  III.  xx. — the  Yung,  HT.  &— 
Pih-kwei,  X.  v<— of  ChHng,  XV.  x.-*h*  Ngs, 
IX.  xiv.:  XVII.  xviii. 

Odes,  the  study  of  the  Rook  oft  XVL  xfi*  ft 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


lNt>E£  t 


SrBJUCTS  IN  TftK  ANALECTS. 


303 


XVTl.  ix. ;  x.  j— quotations  from  the,  I*  xv« ; 
III.  xriii. ;  IX.  xxvi. ;  XII.  x. — tlte  pure  design 
of  the,ILiL 

Office,  declined  by  Tsse-k'een,  VI.  riL— desire 
for,  qualified  by  self-respect,  IX.  xii.r— Conf., 
why  not  in,  II.  xxi. — when  to  be  accepted,  and 
when  to  be  declined,  VHI.  xiii. 

Officers,  classes  of  men  who  may  be  styled, 
XHI.  xx. — mercenary,  impossible  to  serre 
■with,  XVII.  xr. — personal  correctness  essen- 
tial to,  XIII.  xiii.— should  first  attend  to  their 
proper  work,  XIX.  xiii. 

Official  notifications  of  Ch<ing,  why  excellent, 
XlV.ix. 

Old  knowledge,  to  be  combined  with  new  acqui* 
sitious,  II»  xi. 

Old  man,  encounter  with  an,  XVHI.  vii. 

Opposing  a  father,  disapproved  of,  VII.  xiv. 

Ordinances  of  Heaven  necessary  to  be  known, 
XX.  iii. 

Ordinary  people,  could  not  understand  Conf., 
XIX.  xxiiK— ordinary  rules,  Conf.  not  to  be 
jadged  by,  XVII.  vii. 

Originator,  Conf.  not  an,  VII*  i» 


Parents,  grief  for,  brings  out  the  real  nature  of  a 
man,  XIX.  xvii. — how  a  son  may  remonstrate 
with,  IV.  xriii. — should  be  strict  and  decided, 
XIV.  viii,— three  years'  mourning  for,  XVTL 
xxi. — their  years  to  be  remembered,  IV.  xxi. 

People,  what  may  and  what  may  not  be  attain- 
ed to  with  the,  VIII.  ix. 

Perfect  virtue,  caution  in  speaking,  character* 
iatic  of,  XII.  Iii.— characteristics  of,  XIII. 
xix.— estimation  of,  V.  xviii.,  &.  VI.  xx.— five 
things  which  constitute,  XVII.  vi. — how  to 
attain  to,  XII.  L— not  easily  attained,  XIV. 
vii. — wherein  realized,  XII.  ii. 

Persistence  in  error,  lament  over,  V.  xxvi. 

Perseverance  proper  to  a  student,  VI.  x. 

Personal  attainment,  a  man's  chief  concern,  I. 
xvt,  &  XTV.  xxxii.— conduct,  all  in  all  to  a 
ruler,  XIII.  xvi.— correctness,  essential  to  an 
oOoer,  XIH.  xiii. 

Perspicuity  the  chief  virtue  of  language,  XV. 
xl. 

Pervading  unity,  Conf.  doctrine  a,  IV.  xv»— how 
Conf.  aimed  at,  XV.  viii. 

Phoenix,  the,  IX.  vilL,  k  XVHI.  V. 

Piety,  see  Filial. 

Pity  of  Conf.  for  misfortune,  IX.  ix. 

Plans,  what  is  necessary  to  concord  in,  XV. 
xxxix. 

Poetry,  benefits  of  the  study  of  the  Book  of, 
VUI.viit,  &XVH.ix.i  x.— and  music,  ser- 
vice rendered  to  by  Conf.  IX.  xiv. 

Posthumous  titles,  on  what  principle  conferred, 
V.  xiv. 

Poverty,  happiness  in,  VL  ix.— harder  to  bear 
aright  than  riches,  XTV.  xl*— no  disgrace  to 
a  scholar,  IV.  ix. 

Practical  ability,  importance  of,  Xm.  v. 

Practice,  Conf.  teal  to  carry  his  principles  into, 
XVTL  v. 

Praise  of  the  house  of  Chow,  VIII.  xx.— of  the 
music-master  Ch*e,  VIII.  xv<— of  Yaou,  VIII. 
xixv-ofYu,VIII.  xxi 

Praising  and  blaming,  Conf.  correctness  in,  XV. 


Prayer,  sin  against  Heaven  precludes  III.  xiiL — 
Conf.  declines,  for  himself,  VII.  xxxiv. 

Precaution,  necessity  of,  XV.  xi. 

Preliminary  study,  necessity  of  to  governing,  XI. 
xxiv. 

Presumption,  Ac,  of  the  chief  of  the  Ke  family, 
XVI.  i.— and  pusillanimity  conjoined,  XVII. 
xii. 

Pretence,  against,  II.  xvii— Conf.  dislike  o£ 
IX.  xi. 

Pretentiousness  of  Conf.  time,  VII.  xxv. 

Prince,  and  minister,  relation  of,  III.  xix.— 
Conf.  demeanour  before  a,  X.  ii. — Conf.  de- 
meanour in  relation  to,  X.  xUi. 

Princes,  Conf.  influence  on,  I.  x.— how  to  be 
served,  HI.  Xviii. 

Principles,  agreement  in,  necessary  to  concord 
In  plans,  XV.  xxxix.— and  ways  of  Taou, 
Shun,  Ac,  XX.  iw— of  duty,  an  instrument  in 
the  hand  of  man*  XV.  xxviii. 

Prompt  decision  good,  V.  xix. 

Propriety,  and  music,  influence  of,  XV 11.  iv.— 
combined  with  learning,  VI.  xxvn  &  XII.  xv.— 
effect  of,  VIIL  viii.— love  of,  facilitates  go- 
vernment, XIV.  xliv.— -necessary  to  a  ruler, 
XV.  xxxii. — not  in  external  appurtenances, 
XVH.  xi.-- rules  of,  I.  xii. :  III.  xv.— rules  of, 
necessary  to  be  known,  XX.  iii.— value  of  the 
rules  of,  VHI.  ii. 

Prosperity  and  ruin  of  a  country,  on  what  de- 
pendent, Xm.  xv.,  &  XVI.  ii. 

Prowess  conducting  to  ruin,  XIV.  vi. 

Prudence,  a  lesson  of,  XIV.  iv. 

Pursuit  of  riches,  against,  VII.  xi. 

Pusillanimity  and  presumption,  XVII.  xii 


Q 


Qualifications  of  an  officer,  Vm.  xiii. 
Qualities  that  are  favourable  to  virtue,  XIII. 
xxvii.— that  mark  the  scholar,  XIII.  xxviii. 


R 


Bash  words  cannot  be  recalled,  HI.  xxi. 
Readiness  of  Conf.  to  impart  instruction,  VII. 

vii.— of  speech,  V.  iv.,  &  XVII.  xiv. 
Reading  and  thought,  should  be  combined,  II. 

xv.,  &  XV.  xxx. 
Rebuke  to  Ten  Yew,  4c,  XVI.  i. 
Receptivity  of  Hwuy,  n.  ix.,  &  XI.  lit 
Reciprocity,  the  rule  of  life,  XV.  xxiii.  ____ 
Recluse,  Tsse-loo's  encounter  with  a,  XVHL 

vii. 
Recluses,  Conf.  and  the  two,  XVIII.  vi. 
Recollection  of  Hwuy,  Conf.  fond,  IX.  xx. 
Reflection,  the  necessity  of;  IX.  xxx. 
Regretful  memory  of  disciples'  fidelity,  XI.  ii. 
Relative  duties,  necessity  of  maintaining,  XII. 

xi. 
Remark  of  an  ignorant  roan  about  Conf,  IX.  ii. 
Remonstrance  with  parents,  IV.  xviii. 
Repentance  escaped  by  timely  care,  I.  xiii. 
Reproof  to  Tsze-loo,  XI.  xxiv. 
Reproofs,  frequent,  warning  against  the  use  of, 

IV.  xxvi. 
Reputation  not  a  man's  concern,  XV.  xviii. 
Resentments,  how  to  ward  off,  XV.  xiv. 
Residence,  rule  for  selecting  a,  IV.  L^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


304 


SUBJECTS   15   THE  ANALECTS. 


INDSX  L 


Respect,  a  youth  should  be  regarded  with,  DC. 
xxii.— of  Conf.  for  men,  XV.  xxiv.— of  Conf. 
for  rank,  IX.  ix. 

Retired  worthy's  judgment  on  Conf.,  XIV.  xlii. 

Reverence  for  parents,  II.  vii. 

Riches,  pursuit  of,  uncertain  of  success,  VII.  xi. 

Right  way,  importance  of  knowing  the,  IV.  viii. 

Righteous  and  public  spirit  of  Conf.,  XIV.  xxii. 

Righteousness  the  Keuw»Uxt?s  concern,  IV.  xvi. 
— is  his  rule  of  practice,  IV.  x. 

Root  of  benevolence,  filial  and  fraternal  duty  is 
the,  I.  ii. 

Royal  ruler,  a,  could,  in  what  time,  transform 
the  empire,  XIII.  xii. 

Ruin  and  prosperity  dependent  on  what,  XHI. 
xv.,  &  XVI.  ii. 

Rule  of  life,  reciprocity  the,  XV.  xxiii. 

Ruler,  virtue  in  a,  II.  i. 

Rulers,  a  lesson  to,  VIII.  x*— personal  conduct 
all  in  all  to,  XIII.  xvi. — should  not  be  occu- 
pied with  what  is  the  proper  business  of  the 
people,  XIII.  iv. 

Ruling,  best  means  of,  II.  iii. 

Running  stream,  a,  Conf.  how  affected  by,  IX. 


Sacrifice,  Conf.  sincerity  in,  HI.  xii.— the  great, 

III.  x. ;  xi-— wrong  subjects  of,  II.  xxiv. 
Sagehood,  not  in  various  ability,  IX.  vi. 
8cholar,  attributes  of  the  true,  XIX.  i.— his  aim 

must  be  higher  than  comfort,  XTV.  iii. 
Self-cultivation,  I.  viii.,  &  IX.  xxiv.— a  man's 

concern,  IV.  xiv. — a  characteristic  of   the 

Keun-t$ze}  XIV.  xlv. — Conf.  anxiety  about, 

VII.  iii.— steps  in,  I.  xv. 
Self-examination,  I.  iv. 
Selfish  conduct  causes  murmuring,  IV.  xii. 
Self-respect  should  qualify  desire  for  office,  IX. 

xii. 
Self-willed,  Conf.  not,  XIV.  xxxiv. 
Sequences,  of  wisdom,  virtue,  and  bravery,  IX. 

xx  viii. 
Servants,  difficult  to  treat,  XVII.  xxv. 
Shame  of  caring  only  for  salary,  XIV.  i. 
Shaou,  a  name  of  certain  music,  III.  xxv. 
Sheep,  the  monthlv  offering  of  a,  III,  xvii. 
Shoo-king,  quotation  from,  II.  xxi.;  XIV.  xliii. 

—compilation  from,  XX.  i. 
8ilent  mourning,  three  years  of,  XIV.  xliii 
Simplicity,  instance  of,  VIII.  v. 
Sincerity,  cultivation  of,  I.  iv- — necessity  of,  II. 

xxiL — praise  of,  V.  xxiv. 
Slandering  of  Tsze-loo,  XIV.  xxxviii. 
Slowness  to  speak,  of  the  ancients,  IV.  xxii. — 

of  the  Keun-tsze,  IV.  xxiv. 
Small  advantages  not  to  be  desired  in  govern- 
ment, XIII.  xvii. 
Social  intercourse,  qualities  of  the  scholar  in, 

XIII.  xxiii. 
Solid  excellence  blended  with  ornament,  VI.  xvi. 
Son,  a,  opposing  his  father,  against,  VII.  xiv. — 

Conf.  instruction  of  his  own,  XVI.  xiii 
Sources  of  Conf.  knowledge,  XIX.  xxii. 
Specious  words,  danger  of,  XV.  xxvi. 
Speech,  discretion  in,  XV.  vii. 
Spirit  of  the  times,  against,  III.  xviii. 
Spirits,  Conf.  evades  a  question  about  serving, 

XI.  xi-— of  the  land,  altars,  of,  III.  xxi. 
Stages  of  attainment,  VI.  xviii. — of  progress, 

different  persons  stop  at  different,  IX.  xxix. 


8tates  of  Ts«e  and  Loo.  VI.  xxii. 

Strange  doctrines,  II.  xvi. 

Strength,  not  a  fit  subject  of  praise,  XIV. 

Student's  proper  work,  XIX.  xiii. 

Stupidity  of  Ning  Woo,  V.  xx. 

Subjects,  avoided  by  Conf.  VII.  xx.— <*f  Coat 
teaching,  VII.  xxiv.    See  Topics. 

Submission  of  subjects,  how  secured,  IL  xix. 

Substantial  qualities,  and  accomplishments,  ia 
the  Keun-Uze,  XII.  viii. 

Sun  and  moon,  Conf.  like  the,  XIX.  xxiv. 

Superficial  speculations,  against,  XV.  xvi. 

Superior  and  mean  man,  II.  xiL;  xiiL;  xivj  IV. 
xi.;  xvi.:  VI.  xi:  VII.  xxxvi.:  XVI.  viiL— dif- 
ferent air  and  bearing  of,  XIIL  xxvi.— 
different  in  their  relation  to  those  employed 
by  them,  XIII.  xxv.— different  manners  of; 
XIII.  xxiii. — different  tendencies  of;  XIV. 
xxiv-— how  to  know,  XV.  xxxiiL — opposite 
influence  of,  XII.  xvi. 

Superior  man,  above  distress,  XV.  i. — changing 
appearances  of,  to  others,  XIX.  ix.— cleaves 
to  virtue,  IV.  v.— does  not  conceal,  but 
changes,  his  errors,  XIX.  xxi. — firmness  o£ 
based  on  right,  XV.  xxxvi.— four  character- 
istics of,  V.  xv.— i»  righteous,  courteous, 
humble,  and  sincere.  XV.  xvii. — more  in  deeds 
than  in  words,  XIV.  xxix.— nine  subject*  of 
thought  to,  XVI.  x.— rule  about  his  words  and 
actions,  IV.  xxiv. — self-cultivation,  character- 
istic of;  XIV.  xlv.— talents  and  virtues  of; 
VIII.  vi- — thoughts  of  in  harmony  with  mi 
position,  XIV.  xxviii.— truth  the  object  of. 

XV.  xxxi. — various  characteristics  of,  XV. 
xx. ;  xxii. ;  xxiii. — wishes  to  be  had  in  remem- 
brance. XV.  xix. 

Superiority  of  Hwuy,  VI.  ii. ;  v. 

Superstition  of  Tsang  Wan,  V.  xvii. 

Supreme  authority  ought  to  maintain  its  power, 

XVI.  ii. 

Susceptivity  of  learners,  teachers  to  be  guided 

by,  VI.  xix. 
Swiftness  to  speak,  incompatible  with  virtus, 

XVII.  xiv. 

Sympathy  of  Conf.  with  mourners,  VIL  ix.— 
with  sorrow,  IX.  ix. 


Talents,  men  of,  scarce,  VUI.  xx.— worthiest 
without  virtue,  VUI.  xi. 

Taxation,  light,  advantages  of,  XIL  ix. 

Teacher,  qualification  of  a,  II.  xi. 

Teaching,  effect  of,  XV.  xxxviiL— Conf.  earnest- 
ness in,  IX.  vii. — Conf.  subjects  of,  VII.  xxir. 
— graduated  method  of,  XIX.  xii. — necessary- 
to  prepare  the  people  for  war,  XIII.  xxix.;  xxx. 

Temple,  Conf.  in  the  grand,  XIII.  xv,  &  X.  xk. 

Thieves  made  by  the  example  of  rulers,  XIL 
xviii. 

Think,  those  who  will  not,  the  case  of,  hopeless, 

XV.  xv. 

Thinking  without  reading,  fruitless,  XV.  xxx. 

Thought  and  learning,  to  be  combined,  II.  xr. 

Three,  errors  of  speech,  in  the  presence  of  the 
great,  XVI.  vi.— families,  of  Loo,  III.  ii.- 
friendships  advantageous,  and  three  injurious, 

XVI.  iv. — sources  of  enjoyment,  idjuL,  XV  L 
v. — things  of  which  the  superior  man  stand* 
in  awe,  XVI.  viii. — years'  mourning,  XIV. 
xliii.:  XVII.  xxi.— worthies  of  the  Yin  dynas- 
ty, XVIII.  L 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


rKDBXL 


SUBJECTS  IN   THE   ANALECTS. 


305 


Thunder,  Conf.  how  affected  by,  X,  xvL 

Topics,  avoided  by  Conf.,  VII.  xx. — most  com- 
mon of  Conf,,  VH.  xvii. — seldom  spoken  on 
by  Conf.,  IX.  i. 

Traditions  of  the  principles  of  Win  and  Woo, 
XIX.  xxiL 

Training  of  the  young,  I.  vi. 

Transmitter,  Conf.  a,  VII.  i. 

Trappings  of  mourning  may  be  dispensed  with, 
XIX.  xiv. 

Treatment  of  a  powerful,  but  unworthy  officer 
hy  Conf.,  XVII.  i. 

True  men,  paucity  of  in  Conf.  time,  VII.  xxv. 

Truthfulness,  necessity  of,  L  xxii. 

Two  classes  only  whom  practice  cannot  change, 
XVII.  iiL— recluses,  Conf.  and  the,  X VIII.  vi. 


U 


Unbending  virtue,  V.  x. 
Unchangeableness  of  great  principles,  II.  xxiii. 
Unity  of  Conf.  doctrine,  IV.  xv.,  &  XV.  ii. 
Unmannerly  old  man,  Conf.  conduct  to  an, 

XIV.  xlvi. 
Unoccupied,  Conf.  manner  when,  VII.  iv. 
Unworthy  ronn,  Conf.  responds  to  the  advances 

of  an,  XVII.  vii. 
Uprightness,   and   natural   duty  in  collision, 

XIII.  xviii. — meanness  inconsistent  with,  V. 

xxiii. — necessary  to  true  virtue,  VI.  xvii. 
Usurped  rites,  against,  III.  i ;  ii ;  vi. 
Usurping  tendencies  of  the  Ke  family,  XIII. 

xiv. 
Utensil,  Tsze-kung  an,  V.  iiL — the  accomplished 

scholar  not  an,  U.  xii. 


Valour  subordinate  to  righteousness,  XVIL 
xxiii. 

Various  ability  of  Conf-  IX.  vi. 

Vice,  how  to  correct,  XII.  xxi. 

Vices,  of  a  father,  no  discredit  to  a  good  son, 
VI.  iv. — which  youth,  manhood,  and  age  have 
to  guard  against,  XVL  vii. 

Village,  Conf.  demeanour  in  his,  X.  i.;  x. 

Vindication,  Conf.,  of  himself,  VI.  xxvi.— of 
Conf.  by  Tsze-loo,  XVIII.  vii. 

Virtue,  alone  adapts  a  man  for  his  condition, 
IV.  ii. — and  not  strength  a  fit  subject  of 
praise,  XIV.  xxxv. — ceremonies  &  music  vain 
without,  IIL  iiL— complete,  I.  L — contentment 
with  what  is  vulgar  injures,  XVII.  xiii. — 
devotion  of  the  Ktvn-Uzt  to,  IV.  v.— exceeding, 


of  T*ae-pih,  VIII.  L— few  really  know,  XV. 
iii. — how  to  exalt,  XII.  x.;  xxi. — in  concealing 
one's  merit,  VI.  xiii. — influence  of,  II.  L— 
knowledge  not  lasting  without,  XV.  xxxii. — 
leading  to  empire,  XIV.  vi. — learning,  neces- 
sary to  the  completion  of,  XVII.  viii. — learn- 
ing leading  to,  XIX.  vi.— love  of,  rare,  IV.  vU 
IX.  xvii.:  XV.  xii. — natural  qualities  which 
favour,  XIII.  xxvii.— not  far  to  seek,  VIL 
xxix.— the  highest,  not  easily  attained,  and 
incompatible  with  meanness,  XIV.  vii. — the 
practice  of,  aided  by  intercourse  with  the 
good,  XV.  ix. — to  be  valued  more  than  life, 
XV.  viiL — true  nature  and  art  of,  VI.  xxviiL 
—without  wealth,  ftc,  XVI.  xiL 
Virtues,  the  great,  demand  the  chief  attention* 

XIX.  xi. 

Virtuous  men,  not  left  alone,  IV,  xxv. — only 

can  love  or  hate  others,  IV.  iiL 
Vocation  of  Conf.,  a  stranger's  view  of,  HI.  xxiv. 
Vulgar  ways  and  views,  against  contentment 

with,  XVII.  xiiL 

W 

War,  how  a  good  ruler  prepares  the  people  for, 

XIII.  xxix.;  xxx. 
Warning  to  Tsze-loo,  XI.  xii. 
Waywardness,  lament  over,  VI.  xv. 
Wealth  without  virtue,  &c,  XVI.  xii. 
Wickedness,  the  virtuous  wilL  preserves  from. 

IV.  iv. 
Wife  of  a  prince,  appellations  for,  XVI.  xiv. 
Will,  the  virtuous,  preserves  from  wickedness, 

IV.  iv. — is  unsubduable,  IX.  xxv. 
Wisdom  and  virtue,  chief  elements  of,  VI.  xx. 

—contrasts  of,  VI.  xxi.:  IX.  xxviii. 
Wishes,  different,  of  Yen  Yuen,  &c,  V.  xxv.— 

of  Tsze-loo,  Ac,  XI.  xxv. 
Withdrawing  from  public  life,  different  causes 

of,  XIV.  xxxix.— of  Conf.,  XVHL  v.;  vi.— of 

seven  men,  XTV.  xl. 
Withdrawing  from  the  world,  Conf.  proposes, 

V.  vi.— Conf.  judgment  on,  XVIII.  viii. 
Words,  the  force  of,  necessary  to  be  known, 

XX.  iii. 

Work,  a  man's,  is  with  himself,  XIV.  xxx. 
Workshop,  the  student's,  XIX.  vii. 


Young,  duty  of  the,  I.  vi. — should  be  regarded 

with  respect,  IX.  xxii. 
Youth,  the  vice  to  be  guarded  against  in,  XVL 

viL 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  II. 


OF  PROPER  NAMES  IN  THE  CONFUCIAN  ANALECTS. 


«sT  Names  m  Italics  will  be  found  in  their  own  places  in  this  Index  with  additional  references. 


CH  and  CH'. 


Ch'me,  surnamed  Kaon,  and  styled  Tsze-koon,  a 

disciple  of  Conf,  XI.  xtu. 
Chang,  Tsze-chang,  XIX.  xv.j  xvi. 
Ch'ang-tsen,  a  worthy  of  Ts'oo,  XVm.  vi. 
Chaou,  a  prince  celebrated  for  his  beauty  of 

person,  VI.  sir. 
Chaou,  one  of  the  three  families  which  governed 

the  state  of  Tain,  XIV.  xii. 
Ch*aou,  the  hon.  epithet  of  Chow,  duke  of  Loo, 

imj.  640— 509,  VIL  xxx. 
Che,  the  Music-master  of  Loo,  Vffl.  xv.:  XVHI. 

ix. 
Ch'ih,  surnamed  Kung-te,  and  styled  Tsze-hwa, 

a  disciple  of  Conf.,  V.  vii.:  VL  iiu  XI.  xxv. 
Chin,  the  state  of,  V.  xxk  VIL  xxju  XI.  iu 

XV.  i. 
Chin  K«ang,  Tsze-frin,  a  disciple  of  Conf,  XVL 

xiii. 
Chin  Shing,  or  Chin  Hang,  an  officer  of  Keen, 

duke  of  Ts'e,  XIV.  xxii. 
Chin  Win,  an  officer  of  Ts«e,  V.  xviii. 
Chlng,  the  State  of,  XV.  x. 
Choo-chang,  a  person  who  retired  from  the 

world,  XVm.  Tiii.  ^^ 

Chow  dynasty,  IL  xxiifc  III.  xiv.;  xxi.:  VIIL 

xx.:  XV.  x^  XVI.  v.:  XVIH.  xfc  XX.  i. 
Chow,  the  last  emperor  of  the  Tin  dynasty, 

XVTII.  L:  XIX.  xx. 
Chow  Jin,  an  ancient  historiographer,  XVI.  i. 
Chow-kung,  or  the  duke  of  unow,  VTI.  V4 

Vm.  xu  XI.  xvi.:  XVIIL  x. 
Chuen-yu,  a  small  territory  in  Loo,  XVI.  i. 
Chung-hwtth,  an  officer  of  Chow,  XVTII.  xi. 
Chung-kung,  the  designation  of  Ten  %  a 

disciple  of  Conf.,  VL  L;  iv~  XL  iu  XII.  iL: 

XIH.ii. 

Chung-mow,  a  place  in  the  state  of  Tain,  XVII. 

vii. 
Chung-ne,  Confucius,  XIX.  xxii— xxr. 
Chung-shuh  Tu,  the  name  as  JPung  Wan,  XTV. 

xx. 
Chung  Yew,  styled  Tsze-loo,  a  disciple  of  Con- 
fucius, VI.  vi--  XI.  xxiii.:  XVIH.  vi. 
Chwang  of  Peen,  XIV.  xiii. 

E 

£,  a  small  town  on  the  borders  of  the  State  of 

Wei,  IIL  xxiv. 
E,  a  famous  archer,  jmj.  about  2150.,  XIV.  vi. 
E-yih,  a  person  who  retired  from  the  world, 

XVIIL  viii. 
E  Tin,  the  minister  of  T'ang,  XIL  xxii. 


Fan  Ch*e,  by  name  Sen,  and  designated  Tsse- 
ch«e  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  EL  vu  VI.  xx^  XIL 
xxi.;  xxii.:  XIIL  iv.;  xix. 

Fan  Sen,  the  name  as  Fan  Ch%  XliL  iv. 

Fang,  a  city  in  Loo,  XTV.  xv. 

Fang-shun,  a  musician  of  Loo,  XVIIL  ix. 


G 


Gae,  the  hon.  title  of  Tseang,  duke  of  Loo,  ax. 
498— 467,  IL  xix^  IIL  xxi.:  VL  IL:  XDL  ix. 

Gan  P*ing,  posthumous  title  of  Gan  Ting,  prin- 
cipal minister  of  Ts<e,  V.  xvL 

H 

Han,  the  river,  XVHI.  ix. 

Hea  dynasty,  IL  xxiii.:  IIL  ix^  xxL:  XV.  x. 

Heen,  the  name  of  Tiisa  <S*e,  a  disciple  of  Conf, 

XVLi. 
Hwan,  the  three  great  families  of  Loo,  bang 

descended  from  duke  Hwan,  are  called  the 

descendants  of  the  three  Hwan,  IL  v.aote; 

XVI.  Hi. 
Hwan,  the  duke  of  Ts*e,  bjc.  688—642,  XIV. 

xvi.;  xTiii. 
Hwan  T'uy,  a  high  officer  of  Sung,  VIL  xxii. 
Hwuy,  Yen  Hwuy,  styled  Tsxe-yuen,  a  disciple 

of  Conf,  H.  ix^  V.  viii.:  VI.  T4  ixu  IX.  xxll 

XI.  iifc  x^  xviii^  xxii. 
Hwuy  of  Lew-hea,  posthumous  title  of  Cfcea 

HwiJ,  an  officer  of  Loo,  XV.  xiii:  XVHLu.; 


Joo  Pei,  a  man  of  Loo,  XVIL  xx. 

K 

Kan,  the  Master  of  the  band  at  1*0,  XVm.ii. 
Kaou-tsung,  the  hon.  epithet  of  the  emperor 

Woo-ting,  bx.  1823—1263.,  XTV.  xUiL 
Kaou-yaou,  a  minister  of  Shun,  XII.  xxii. 
Ke,  a  small  state  in  which  sacrifices  to  the  eav 

perors  of  the  Hea  dynasty  were  msintainri 

by  their  descendants,  HI.  ix. 
Ke,  a  small  state  in  Sban-se,  XVIH.  L 
Ke  family,  the  family  of  Ke  Kama  of  LocvlU.i. 
VL  vii :  XI.  xvi. :  X VL  L :  XVIIL  in. 


vi. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


2TOEX  IL 


PROPBR  NAMES  IN  THE  ANALECTS. 


307 


Ce  Hwan,  or  Ke  Sze,  the  bead  of  the  Ke  family 

in  the  latter  days  of  Conf,  XVIII.  iv. 
£e  K*ang,  the  hon.  epithet  of  Ke-sun  Fei,  the 
head  of  one  of  the  three  great  families  of  Loo, 
II.  xx.:  VI.  vi.:  XI.fi.:  XIII.  xvh.;  xviiL; 
xix.:  XIV. xx. 
ve-kwa,  an  officer  of  Chow,  XVIII.  xi. 
iCe  Loo,  the  same  as  Tsze-loo,  V.  xxv. :  XI.  ii. ; 

xi.:XHI.xiv:XVI.i. 
Ke-sun,  the  same  as  Ke  Klang,  XIV.  xxxviii ; 

XVI.  L 
tCe-suy,  an  officer  of  Chow,  XVIII.  xi. 
Ke  T*ze-jen,  a  younger  brother  of  the  Ke  fami- 
ly, XI.  xxiii. 
Ke  Wan,  posthumous  title  of  Ke  Hang-foo,  an 

officer  of  Loo,  V.  xix. 
Ket-neih,  a  worthy  of  Ts'oo,  XVIII.  vi. 
Keen,  a  duke  of  Ts'e,  XIV.  xxii. 
Keu-foo,  a  small  city  on  the  western  borders  of 

Loo,  XIII.  xvu. 
Keu  Pih-yuh,  the  designation  of  Keu  Yuen,  an 
officer  of  the  State  of  Wei,  XIV.  xxvi. :  XV. 
vi. 
K'euen,  the  name  of  a  village,  XIV.  xlvii. 
Keuch,  a  musician  of  Loo,  XVIIL  iv. 
Kew,  brother  of  the  duke  Hwan  of  Ts'e,  XIV. 

xvii. ;  xviii. 

K*ew,  Confucius'  name,  XTV.  xxxiv.:  XVIII.  vi. 

K*ew,  the  name  of  Yen  Yew,  a  disciple  of  Conf., 

V.  vii:  VI.  vi.:XI.  xvi.;  xxi.;  xxiii.;  xxv.: 

XVI.  i. 

Kih  Tsze-shing,  an  officer  of  the  8tate  of  Wei, 

XIL  viii. 
King,  a  duke  of  Ts'e,    XIL  xi.:  XVI,  xiL: 

XVIIL  iiL 
King,  a  scion  of  the  ducal  family  of  Wei,  XIII. 

viii. 
K*ung,  Confucius,  IX.  ii.;  XTV.  xii.;  XVHL  vi. 
Kung-Ch«5,  Ming  Kung-chld,  XIV.  xiii. 
Kung-niing  Kea,  XIV.  xiv. 
Kung-pih  Leaou,  a  relative  of  the  duke  of  Loo, 

XIV.  xxxviii. 
Kung-se  Hwa,   Tsze-hwcu,  a  disciple  of  Conf., 

VII.  xxxiii:  XI.  xxi.;  xxv. 
Kung-shan  Foh-jaou,  a  confederate  of  Yang 

Ho,  XVIL  v. 
Kung-shflh  Wan,  an  officer  of  the  State  of  Wei, 

XIV.  xiv.;  xix. 
Kung-sun  Ch'aou,  of  Wei,  XIX.  xxii. 
K'ang  WSn,  posthumous  title  of  Tsze-yu,  an 

officer  of  Wei,  V.  xiv. 
Kung-yay  Ch'ang,  the  son-in-law  of  Confucius, 

V.i. 
Kwan  Chung,  by  name  E  Woo,  chief  minister 
to  the  duke  Hwan  of  Ts'e,   ba.  683— 640., 
IIL  xxii.:  XIV.  x.;  xvii.;  xviil 
K'wang,  the  name  of  a  town,  IX.  v ;  XL  xxiL 


Laon,  suruamed  Kin,  and  styled  Tsze-k'ae  or 
Tsze-chang,  a  disciple  of  Confucius,  IX.  vi. 

Le,  the  name  of  T*ang,  founder  of  the  Shang 
dynasty,  XX.  i. 

Le,  a  son  Confucius,  who  died  early,  XI.  vii. 

Leaou,  a  musician  of  Loo,  XVHL  ix. 

Lin  Fang,  styled  Tsze-k'ew,  a  man  of  Loo,  sup- 
posed to  have  been  a  disciple  of  Confucius,  HI. 
iv.  vi. 

Ling,  a  dnke  of  Wei,  XIV.  xx. :  XV.  i. 

Lou,  the  native  State  of  Conf.,  IL  v.  note;  HI. 


xxni:  V.  ii.:  VL  xxii:  IX.  xiv:  XI.  xfiL*. 
XIH.  vii. :  XIV.  xv.:  XVHL  iv. ;  vi. ;  x. 


M 


MSng  Che-fan,  named  Tslh,  an  officer  of  Loo, 

VI.  xiii. 
Mang  Chwang,  the  head  of  the  Ming  family,  an* 

terior  to  Conf.  time,  XIX.  xviii. 
Mang  E,  the  posthumous  title  of  Ming-sun,  the 

head  of  the  Mang  family,  H.  v. 
Mang  family,  one  of  the  three  great  families  of 

Loo,  XVHL  iii. :  XIX.  xix. 
Mfing  King,  honorary  title  of  Chung-sun  Ts<eeV 

son  of  Mfing  Woo,  VHI.  iv. 
Mfing  Kung-ch'o,  the  head  of  the  Ming  or 

Chung-sun  family,  in  the  time  of  Conft,  XTV» 

xii. 
Mang-sun,  named  Ho-ke,  the  same  as  Ming  E, 

ILv. 
Ming  Woo,  hon.  title  of  Che,  the  son  of  MSng 

E,ILvi.:  V.vii. 
Min,  the  music-master  of  Loo,  XV.  xii. 
Min,  Min  Taze-k'een,  XL  xii. 
Min,  Tsze-k'een,  named  Sun,  a  disciple  of  Conf ^ 

VI.  vii. :  XI.  ii. ;  iv. ;  xiii. 
Mung,  the  eastern,  the  name  of  a  mountain, 

XVLL 

N 

Nan-kung  K*wSh,  supposed  to  be  the  same  a* 

Nan  Yung,  XIV.  vl 
Nan-tsze,  the  wife  of  the  duke  of  Wei,  and 

sister  of  prince  Chaou,  VI.  xxvi. 
Nan-yung,  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  V.  i.:  XI.  v. 
Ngaou,  the  son  of  Han  Tsuh,  (b/3.  2100),  XTV. 

vi. 
Ning  Woo,  hon.  ep.  of  Ning  Yu,  an  officer  of 

Wei,  V.  xx. 


P*tng.  an  ancient  worthy,  VH.  i. 

Pe,  a  place  in  the  state  of  Loo,  VL  vii.:  XL 

xxiv.:XVLi.:XVH.v. 
Pe-kan,  an  uncle  of  the  tyrant  Chow,  XVHL  i. 
P'e  Shin,  a  minister  of  the  state  of  Chlng,  XIV. 

ix. 
Peen,  the  name  of  a  city,  XTV.  x. 
Peen,  a  city  in  Loo,  XIV.  xiii. 
Peih  Heih,  commandant  of  Chung  Mow,  in  the 

State  of  Tsin,  XVIL  vii. 
Pih  family,  XIV.  X. 

Pih-e,  hon.  epithet  of  a  worthy  of  the  Shang 
dynasty,  V.  xxii. :  VIL  xiv. :  XVL  xiL :  XVIIL 

viii.  

Pih-kwtfh,  an  officer  of  Chow,  XVHL  xi. 
Pih-new,  the  denomination  of  Tsae  Kang,  sur- 

named  Yen,  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  VL  viii.:  XL 

ii. 
Pih-tfi,  an  officer  of  Chow,  XVin.  xi. 
Pih-yu,  the  eldest  son  of  Conf,  XVL  xiii  J 

XVlLx.    . 

S 

Seang,  a  musieian  of  Loo,  XVHL  ix. 
Sec,  the  SUte  of,  XIV.  xii. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


308 


PROPER  NAMES  Of  THE  ANALECTS; 


INDEX  II 


8t>n,  an  officer  under  Kong-shah  Win,  XTV. 

lix, 
Shang,  name  of  Tsze-hea,  a  disciple  of  Conf., 

III.  viii.:  XI.  xv. 
Shaou,  the  music  of  Shun,  III.  xxv. :  VH.  xiii. 
Shaou  II  won,  minister  of  duke  Hwan's  brother, 
.  Kew,  XIV.  xvii 
Shaou-leen,  a  person  belonging  to  one  of  the 

barbarous  tribes  of  the  East,  who  retired  from 

the  world,  XVIII.  viii 
She,  a  district  in  the  State  of  TsHx*,  VII.  xriii: 

XIII.  xvi 

She-shun,  named  Yew-keih,  an  officer  of  Ching, 

XIV.  ix. 

Shih-tnun,  one  of  the  frontier  passes  between 

Tse  and  Loo,  XIV.  xli. 
Shin  Ch'ang,  styled  Tsse-chow,  a  disciple  of 

Conf.,  V.  x. 
Show-yang  mountain,  in  Shan-se,  XVI.  xii. 
Shflh-hea,  an  officer  of  Chow,  XVIII.  xi. 
Sh  tin-sun,  one  of  the  three  great  families  of 

Loo,  II.  v.,  note. 
Shnh-sun  Woo-shnh,  a  chief  of  the  Shnh-sun 

family  XIX.  xxiii. ;  xxiv. 
Shnh-ts'e,  hoii.  epithet  of  a  worthy  of  the  Shang 

dynasty,   V.  xxii:    VII.   xiv.:    XVI.    xii.: 

XVIII.  viii. 
8hfth-yay,  an  officer  of  Chow,  XVIII.  xi. 
Shun,  the  emperor,  VI.  xxviii.:  VIII.  xviii.;  xx^ 

XII.  xxii.:  XIV.  xlv.:  XV.  iv.:  XX.  i. 
Sin,  Tsang-suL,  a  disciple  of  Confucius,  IV.  xv.: 

XI.  xvii. 
Sung,  a  State  in  which  sacrifices  to  the  em- 
perors of  the  Hea  dynasty  were  maintained 

by  their  descendants,  III.  ix.:  VI.  xiv. 
Sze,  the  name  of  Ttzt-chimg,  a  disciple  of  Conf., 

XI.  xr.;  xvii. 
Ssze-ma  New,  named  Kang,  a  brother  of  Hwan 
'  T'uy,  and  a  disciple  of  Confucius,  XII.  Hi.; 

It.;  t. 


Tl-heang,  the  name  of  a  Tillage,  IX.  ii. 

T*ae  mountain,  on  the  border  between  Loo  and 

Ts*e,  IIL  vL 
T'ae-pih,  the  eldest  son  of  kingT'ae,  and  grand- 
father of  Wan  the  founder  of  the  Chow  dy- 
nasty, VIII.  i. 
Tan-t*ae  Mee-ming,  styled  Tsxe-yu,  a  disciple 

of  Conf.,  VI.  xii. 
T*ang,  the  dynastic  name  of  the  emperor  Yaou, 

VIII.  xx. 
T'ang,  the  founder  of  the  Shang  dynasty,  XII. 

xxik  XX.  i. 
T'ang,  the  State  of,  XTV.  xii. 
Teen,  the  name  of  Tsang  Sik,  father  of  Tsfcng 

Sin,  and  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  XI.  xxv. 
Ting,  the  posthumous  epithet  of  Sung,  prince 

of  Loo,  III.  xix.:  XIII.  xt. 
T'o,  an  officer  of  the  state  of  Wei,  styled  Tsze- 

yu,  VI.  xiv.:  XIV.  xx. 
Tsae  Go,  by  name  Yu,  and  styled  Tsze-go,  a 

disciple  of  Conf,  III.  xxiu  VI.  xxiv.:  XI.  ii: 

XVII.  xxi. 
Tsae  Yu,  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  who  slept  in  the 

day  time,  the  same  as  the  prec*,  V.  ix. 
Ts'ae,  the  State  of,  XI.  ii-  XVIII.  ix. 
Tslng  Sih,  named  Teen,  the  father  of  Ts&ng 

Sin,  and  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  XI.  xxv. 
Tsang  6't'n,  styled  Tsze-yu,  a  disciple  of  Conf., 

I.  iv.;  ix.:  IV.  xv.;  VIII.  iii. — vii-j  XII.  xxiv.: 

XIV.  xxviii. :  XIX.  xvi.— xix. 


Tsang  Win,  the  honorary  title  of  Ts^ng-soa 

Shin,  a  great  officer  of  Loo,  V.  xviL:  XV.  3  " 
Tsang  Woo-chung,  an  officer  of  Loo,  XIV.  xiii-J 

xv. 
Ts^  the  State  of,  V.  xriii.:  VI.  iii-;  xxii:  VII. 

xiii.:  XIV.  xxii.:  XVI.  iii:  XVTII.  Hi;  iv.;  ix, 
TsfcS-yu,  the  desiguation  of  one  Luh  Tmng,  o(? 

Ts*oo,  who  feigned  himself  mad  to  eacspe 

public  serrice,  XVIII.  t. 
Tseih,  Uow-tseih,  the  minister  of  agriculture 

to  Yaou  and  Shun,  XIV.  vi. 
Tseih-teaou  K*ae,  styled  Tsze-jO,  a  disciple  of 

Conf.,  V.  v. 
Tsin,  the  State  of,  XIV.  xri^  XVHL  ix. 
Tso-k*ew  Ming,  an  ancient  man  of  reputation* 

V.  xxiv. 

Ts*oo,  the  8tate  of,  XVTII.  v.;  ix. 
Ts*uy,  a  great  officer  of  Ts-e,  V.  xriii 
Ts'ze,  the  name  of  Tsze-kuttg,  a  disciple  of  Conf, 

I.  xv.:  III.  xtu.:  V.  viii.;  ixu  VI.  vi:  XIV. 
xxxi.:  XV.  it:  XVII.  xxiv. 

Tsze-ch'an,  named  Kung-sun  K(eaou,  the  chief 
minister  of  the  state  of  Ch'ing,  V.  xv.:  XIV. 
ix.;  x. 

Tsze-chang,  the  designation  of  Chuen-sun  .Sr*, 
a  disciple  of  Conf.,  II.  xviii.;  xxii.:  V.  xriii.: 
XI.  xix.:  XII.  vi.;  xiv.;  xx.:  XIV.  xliiL:  XV. 
v.;  xli.:  XVII.  tL:  XIX.  i^  ii.;  iii:  XX-  ii. 

Tsze-fuh  King-pih,  an  officer  of  Loo,  XTV. 
xxxviii:  XIX.  xxiii. 

Tsze-hea,  the  designation  of  Puh  Shang,  a  dis- 
ciple of  Conf.,  I.  vii.:  II.  vii:  III.  viii:  VL 
xi.:  XL  ii.:  XII.  v.;  xxiL:  XIII.  xxvii;  xxviii: 
XIX.  iii — xt. 

Tsze-hwa,  the  designation  of  Kwtg-se,  named 
Ch'ih,  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  VI.  iiL 

Tsze-kaou,  the  designation  of  Ch'ae,  a  disciple 
of  Conf.,  XI.  xxiv. 

Tsze-kung,  the  designation  of  Twan-muh  TVss, 
a  disciple  of  Conf.,  I.  x^  xv.:  II.  xiii:  II L 
xvii.:  V.  iii.;  viii.:  xi;  xii.;  xiv„*  VL  xxviii: 
VTI.  xiv4  IX.  vi.;  xii.:  XI.  ii.;  xii.:  xvu  XII. 
vii.;  viii.;  x.;  xxiii.:  XIII.  xx.;  xxiv.:  XIV.  xviii.; 
xxx.;  xxxi ;  xxxvii.:  XV.  ii.;  v.;  xxiii:  XVII. 
xix.;  xxiv.:  XIX.  xx. — xxv. 

Tsze-loo,  the  designation  of  Cftway-sw,  often 
named  simply  1  e*?,  a  disciple  of  Confudas, 

II.  xvii.:  V.  vi.;  vii.;  xiii.;  xxv.:  VI.  xxvi: 
VII.  x.;  xxxiv.:  IX.  xL;  xxvU  X.  xviii.:  XL 
xii.;  xiv.;  xxi.;  xxiv.;  xxv.:  XII.  xii.:  XI IL  i; 
iii.;  xxviii.:  XIV.  xiii.;  xvii.;  xxiii;  xxviii.;  xli; 
xlv.:  XV.  i:  XVIL  v.;  vii.;  xxiii;  XVIII.  vi; 
vii 

Tsze-sang  Pih-tsxe,  VI.  i.:  VTI.  xviii 
Tsze-se,  the  chief  minister  of  Ts'oo,  XIV.  x. 
Tsze-ts*een,  the  designation  of  Peih  Puh-ts'e,  a 

disciple  of  Confc,  V.  ii. 
Tszc-wan,  Burnamed  Tow,  and  named  Kuh-yu- 

t'oo,  chief  minister  of  Ts*oo,  V.  xviii 
Tsze-yew,  or  Yen  Yew,  the  designation  of  Yen 

Yen,  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  II.  vii-  VI.  xii:  XL 

ii.:  XVII.  iv.:  XIX.  xii. 
Tsze-yu,  a  minister  of  the  state  of  Ching,  XIV. 

ix. 
Tung-le,  XTV.  ix. 

W 

Wan,  the  king,  VIII.  xx.:  IX.  v.:  XIX.  xxii 
Wan,  a  duke  of  Tsin,  XIV.  xvi. 
Wan,  a  river  dividing  the  states  of  Ts*  and 
Loo,  VL  vii 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


NDEX  II. 


PROPER  NAMES  IN  THE  ANALECTS. 


309 


Vang-sun  Kea,  a  great  officer  of  Wei,  IU.  xiii.: 

XIV.  xx. 
Ve-shang  Mow,  XIV.  xxxiv. 
Vei,  the  State  of.  VII.  xiv.:  IX.  xiv.:  Xm.  Hi.: 

tf\U  viii.;  ix.:  XIV.  xx.;  xiii.:  XV.  L:  XIX. 

xx  ii. 
Vei,  one  of  the  three  families,  which  governed 

the  State  of  Tsin,  XIV.  xii. 
rVei-sbang  Kaon,  V.  xxiii. 
iVei,  a  small  State  in  Shan-se,  XVUI.  i. 
iVoo,  the  State  of,  VII.  xxx. 
fcVoo,  the  fonnder  of  the  Chow  dynasty,  "VHI. 

xx.;  XIX.  xxii. 
Woo,  the  music  of  king  Woo,  HI.  xxv. 
Woo,  a  musician  of  Loo,  XVIII.  ix. 
IVoo-ma  K'e,  VII.  xxx. 
Woo-shing,  the  name  of  a  city  in  Pe.  VI.  xiL: 

XVILiv. 


Tang,  a  musician  of  Loo,  XVm.  ix. 
Yang  Foo,  a  disciple  of  Tsang-sin,  XIX.  xix. 
Yang  Ho,  or  Yang  Hoo,  the  principal  minister 

of  the  Ke  family,  XVII.  i. 
Yaou,  the  emperor,  VL  xxviii.:  VllL.  xix.: 

XIV.  xiv.:  XX.  i. 

Yellow  river,  XVUI.  ix. 

Yen,  Yen  Yew,  VI.  iii.:  XVII.  iv. 

Yen  Hwuy,  styled  Tsze-yuen,  a  disciple    of 

Conf.,  VLii.:XI.  vi. 
Yen  K'ew,  Yen  Yew,  VI.  x.:  XI  xxiii.:  XIV. 

xiii. 


Yen-loo,  the  father  of  Hwny,  XI.  vii. 

Yen  Pih-netv,  named  Tsze  Kang,  a  disciple  of 

Conf.,  XI.  ii. 
Yen  Yew,  named  IPew,  and  designated  Tsze- 

yewy  a  disciple  of  Conf,  III.  vi. :  V.  vii. :  VI. 

ui.:  VII.  xiv.:  XI.  ii.;  xii.;  xxi.;  xxv.:  XIIL  ix.; 

xiv. :  XVI.  i.:  XIX.  xii. 
Yen  Yuen,  named  Hwuy,  and  styled  Tsze-yuen, 

a  disciple  of  Conf.,  V.  xxv. :  VII.  x. :  IX.  x. ; 

xx. :  XL  ii. ;  vii. ;  viii. ;  xix. ;  xxii. :  XII.  i.: 

XV.  x. 
Yew,  Chung  Yew,  styled  Tsze-ho,  a  disciple  of 

Conf.,  IL  xvii.:  V.  vi.;  vii.:  VI.  vi.:  IX.  xi.; 

xxvi. :  XI.  xii. ;  xiv. ;  xvii. ;  xx. ;  xxi.;  xxiii. : 

Xn.  xii. :  XIII.  iii. :  XV.  Ui. :  XVI.  i. :  X VII. 

viii. 
Yew  J5,  styled  Tsze-jft,  and  Tsze-yew,  a  disciple 

of  Conf.,  I.  ii. ;  xii. ;  xiii. :  XII.  ix. 
Yin  dynasty,  II.  xxiii. :  UL  ix. ;  xxi. :  VUL  xx.; 

XV.x.:XVin.i. 
Yu,  the  emperor,  VTH.  xviii.;  xxi.:  XTV.  vi.: 

XX.  L 
Yu,  the  dynastic  name  of  the  emperor  Shun, 

VIII.  xx. 
Yu,  the  historiographer  of  Wei,  XV.  vi. 
Yu,  Tsae  Go,  XVII.  xxi. 
Yu-chung,  or  Woo-chung,  VHI.  i.  note. :  XVIIL 

viii. 
Yuen  Jang,  a  follower,  of  Laou-tsze,  XTV.  xlvi 
Yuen  Sze,  named  Hien,  a  disciple  of  Conf., 

VI.  iii. 
Yun-yen  Yung,  styled  Chmg-hmg,  a  disciple 

ofConf^V.iv.:VI.i 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  III. 


OF  SUBJECTS  IN  THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


Ability  and  worth,  importance  of  a  Holer  ap- 
preciating and  using,  comm^  x.  14,  16. 
Analects,  quotations  from  the,  comm^  iv.;  x.  15. 
Ancients,  the,  illustrated  illustrious  Tirtue  how, 

£ 

Empire,  the,  rendered  peaceful  and  happy,  text, 
b  i  comm*,  x* 


family,  regulating  the,  text,  4, 6.:  comm^  riii^ 
ix. 

H 

Heart,  the  rectification  of  the,  text,  4,  5.i  comm*, 
viL 


Illustration  of  Illustrious  Tirtue,  text,  1,  4: 
comm,,  L 

E 

Kings,  why  the  former  are  remembered,  comnL, 

ffl.4,  5. 
Knowledge,  perfecting  of,  text,  4,  5  ^  comaL,  r. 


Litigations,  it  is  beat  to  prevent,  comm*,  ir. 

M 

Master,  the  words  of  the,  quoted,  comi^  ill.  2;  iv. 
Measuring  square,  principle  of  the,  comnu,  x. 
Middle  kingdom,  the,  comnu,  x.  15. 
Mind,  rectifying  the,  text,  4,  5 :  comrn^  riL 


0 

Odes,  quotations  from  the,  comm^  iL  3 ;  iiL;ix,£« 

7*  8 ;  x.  8,  4,  5. 
Order  of  steps  in  illustrating  Tirtue,  text,  3, 4,5* 


Partiality  of  the  affections,  comm.  vili. 
Passion,  influence  of,  comm.  vu. 
People,  renovation  of  the,  text,  1.;  comam.  iL 
Perfecting  of  knowledge,  the,  text,  4, 5.;  comm.** 
Person,  the  cultivation  of  the,   text,  4,  5,6; 
comm,  viL}  riiL 


R 


Renovation  of  the  people,  the,  /erf,  1 ;  cowu  ii 
Resting  in  the  highest  excellence,  text,  L,  2: 

eomm.  iii. 
Root,  the,  and  branches,  text,  3 ;  comm.  iv. — cul- 
tivation of  the  person  the,  text,  6. — virtue  ibe, 
comm.  x*  6,  7,  8. 


Secret  watchfulness  over  himself;  characteristic 

of  the  superior  man,  comm.  vi,  1.    . 
Shoe-king,  the,  quotations  from,  comm.  L  L,  2, 3 ; 

ii  2  ;  ix.  2.;  x.  11,  14. 
Sinceritv  of  the  thoughts}  text,  4,  5,;  comm.  vi. 
State,  the  government  of  the,  text,  4,  5 :  comm* 

ix.;  x. 
Steps  by  which  virtue  may  be  illustrated,  ten, 

4,6. 
Superior  man,  character  of  the,  comm.  iL  4. 
Superior,  and  mean  man,  comm.  vL 


Virtue,  illustrious,  text,  comm.  iL — the  root,  c 
x,  6,  7,  8. 

W 

Wealth  a  secondary  object  with  a  rulsr,  m 
x.7.,&c 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  IV. 


OF  PROPER  NAMES  IN  THE  GREAT  LEARNING. 


c 


Ch'iiig,  the  philosopher,  Introductory  note:  comnu, 

v.,  note. 
Chow,  the  State  of,  comm^  ii.  8. 
Chow,  the  tyrant,  comm.,  ix.  4. 
Confucius,  Concluding  note  to  text. 


Itan,  the  uncle  of  duke  Wan,  comnu,  x.  13. 

K 

K'ang,  bon.  epithet  of  Fung,  brother  of  king 

Woo,  comm.,  i.  1 ;  iL  2 ;  ix.  2 ;  x.  11. 
K*e,  tlie  name  of  a  river,  comm.,  iii.  4. 
Kee,  the  tyrant,  comm^  ix.  4. 

M 

MSng  HePn,  hon.  epithet  of  Chung-sun  Me?,  a 

worthy  minister  of  Loo,  comm^  X.  22. 
ICencius,  Concluding  note  to  text. 


Shun,  the  emperor,  comm^  ix.  4. 


T*ae  KgX,  the  second  emperor  of  the  Shang  dy- 
nasty, comm.,  i.  2. 

T'ang,  the  emperor,  cornm^  ii.  1. 

Tsang,  the  philosopher,  concluding  note  to  text : 
comm.,  vi.  3. 

Ts4n,  the  State  of.  comnu,  x.  14. 

Ts'oo,  the  State  of,  comm^  x.  12. 


W 

Win,  the  king,  cornm.,  iii.  8. 


Yaou,  the  emperor,  comm.,  L  3 ;  ix.  4. 
Yin  dynasty,  comm^  x.  5. 
Tin,  an  ancient  officer  mentioned  in  the  She- 
king,  cotHm^  x.  4. 


INDEX  V. 


OF  SUBJECTS  IN  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


A 

Analects,  quotations  from  the,  iii;  xxviii.  5» 
Ancestors,  worship  of,  xviii.  2,  3  j  xix. 
Antiquity,  the  regulations  of,  cannot  be  attested, 

xxviii.  5  ;  xxix.  2. 
Archery,  illustrative  of  the  way  of  the  superior 

man,  xiv.  5. 

B 

Benevolence,*  to~£be  cherished  in  treading  the 
>  path  of  duty,  xx.  4,  5. 
Burial  and  mourning,  xviii.  8. 

C 

Ceremonies,  music,  &c.,  can  be  ordered  only  by 
the  emperor,  xxviii.  2  j3,  4. 

Common  men  and  women  may  carry  into  prac- 
tice the  Mean  in  its  simple  elements,  xii.  2, 4. 

Completion  of^every  thing  effected  by  sincerity, 

XXV. 


E 

Emperor,  certain  exclusive  prerogatives  of  the, 

xxviii.  2,  3,  4. 
Emperor-sage,  the,  described,  xxix. 
Equilibrium,  the  mind  in  a  state  of,  i.  4,  5. 
Eulogium  of  Conf.,  xxx.;  xxxi.;  xxxii. 


Fame  of  Conf.  universal,  xxxi.  4. 

Filial  piety,  of  Shun,  xvii.— of  king  Woo,  and 

the  duke  of  Chow,  xix. 
Five  duties  of  universal  obligation,  xx.  8. 
Forcefulness,  in  its  relation  to  the  practice  of 

the  Mean,  x. 
Four  things  to  which  Conf.  had  not  attained, 

xiii.  4. 

G 

Government,  easy  to  him  who  understands  sa- 
crificial ceremonies,  xix.  6.— dependent  on  the 


312 


SUBJECTS   IN  THE   DOCTRINE   OF   THE   MEAN* 


INDEX  V. 


character  of  the  officer*,  and  ultimately  on 
that  of  the  sovereign,  xx. 

H 

Harmony,  the  mind  in  a  state  of,  i.  4,  5. — com- 
bined with  firmness,  in  the  superior  man,  x. 
5. 

Heaven,  rewarding  filial  piety  in  the  case  of 
Shun,  and  virtue  in  the  case  of  Win,  xvii. — 
Confucius  the  equal  of,  xxxi.  8. 

Heaven  and  Earth,  order  of,  dependent  on  the 
equilibrium  and  harmony  of  the  human  mind, 
i.  5. — the  perfectly  sincere  man  forms  a  ter- 
nion  with,  xxii. — Conf.  compared  to,  xxx.  2. 


Instruction,  definition  o£  i.  1. 
Insubordination,  the  evil  of,  xxviii. 
Intelligence,  how  connected  with  sincerity,  xxi. 

K 

Knowledge  of  duties  come  by  in  three  differ- 
ent ways,  xx.  9. 


Lamentation  that  the  path  of  the  Mean  was 

untrodden,  v. 
Law  to  himself,  man  a,  xiii. 

M 

Man  has  the  law  of  the  Mean  in  himself,  xiii. 

Mean,  only  the  superior  man  can  follow  the,  ii. 
1. — the  rarity  of  the  practice  of  the,  iii. — 
how  it  was  that  few  were  able  to  practise 
the,  iv. — how  Shun  practised  the,  vi. — men's 
ignorance  of  the,  shown  in  their  conduct,  vii. 
— how  Hwuy  held  fast  the  course  of  the,  viii. 
— the  difficulty  of  attaining  to  the,  ix.— on 
forcefulne88  in  its  relation  to  the,  x« — only 
the  sage  can  come  up  to  the  requirements  of 
the,  xi.  8.— the  course  of  the,  reaches  far  and 
wide,  but  yet  is  secret,  xii.— common  men 
and  women  may  practice  the,  xii.  2.— orderly 
advance  in  the  practice  of  the,  xv.— Conf. 
never  swerved  from  the,  xxxi.  1 . 

Middle  kingdom,  Conf.  fame  overspreads  the, 
xxxi.  4. 

N 

Nature,  definition  of,  i.  1. 
Nine  standard  rules  to  be  followed  in  the  go- 
vernment of  the  empire,  xx.  12,  13, 14, 15. 


0 


Odes,  quotations  from  the,  xii.  3 ;  xiii.  2 ;  xv.  2 ; 
xvi.  4 ;  xvii.  4  ;  xxvi  ;  xxvii.  7 ;  xxix.  6 ;  xxxiii. 
1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6. 


Passions,  harmony  of  the,  i.  4. 


Path  of  duty,  definition  of,  i.  1. — may  not  be 
left  for  an  instant,  i.  2. — is  not  far  to  seek, 
xiii. 

Praise  of  Win  and  Woo,  and  the  duke  of  Chow, 
xviii.;  xix. 

Preparation  necessary  to  success,  xx.  16. 

Principles  of  duty,  have  their  root  in  the  evi- 
denced will  of  Heaven,  i.  1. — to  be  found  in 
the  nature  of  man,  xiii. 

Progress  in  the  practice  of  the  Mean,  xv. 

Propriety,  the  principle  of,  in  relation  to  the 
path  of  duty,  xx.  5. 

R 

Reciprocity,  the  law  of,  xiii.  3,  4. 
Righteousness,  chiefly  exercised  in  honouring 
the  worthy,  xx.  5. 


S 


Sacrifices,  to  spiritual  beings,  xvi.  8.- 
tuted  by  Woo,  and  the  duke  of  Chow,  xrOL 
2,  8. — to  Heaven  and  Earth,  xix.  6. — to  an- 
cestors, xviii.  xix. 

Sage,  a,  only  can  come  up  to  the  requirements 
of  the  mean,  xi.  3. — naturally  and  easily  em- 
bodies the  right  way,  xx.  18. — the  glorious 
path  of,  xxvii. — Conf.  a  perfect,  xxxi.  1 . 

Seasons,  Confucius  compared  to  the  four,  xxx. 
2,3. 

Secret  watchfulness  over  himself  characteristic 
of  the  superior  man,  i.  3. 

Self-examination  practised  by  the  superior  man, 
xxxiii.  2. 

Sincerity,  the  outgoing  of,  cannot  be  repressed, 
xvi.  5. — the  way  of  Heaven,  xx.  17,  18. — how 
to  be  attained,  xx.  19. — how  connected  with 
intelligence,  xxi. — the  most  complete,  neces- 
sary to  the  full  developement  of  the  nature, 
xxii.— developement  of,  in  those  not  naturally 
possessed  of  it,  xxiii. — when  entire,  can  fare- 
know,  xxiv. — the  completion  of  every  thing 
effected  by,  xxv. — the  possessor  of  entire,  is 
the  co-equal  of  Heaven  and  Earth,  and  is  an 
infinite,  and  an  independent  being, — a  God, 
xxvi.;  xxxii.  1. 

Singleness,  necessary  to  the  practice  of  the  rela- 
tive duties,  xx.  8. — necessary  to  the  practice 
of  government,  xx.  15,  17*— of  king  Win's 
virtue,  xxvi.  10. 

Sovereign,  a,  must  not  neglect  personal  and  re- 
lative duties,  xx.  7. 

Spirit,  the  perfectly  sincere  man  is  like  a, 
xxiv. 

Spiritual  beings,  the  operation  and  influence  of, 
xvi. — the  emperor-sage  presents  himself  be- 
fore, without  any  doubts,  xxix.  3,  4. 

Steps  in  the  practice  of  the  Mean,  xv. 

Superior  man  is  cautious,  and  watchful  over 
himself,  i.  2,  5. — only  can  follow  the  Mean,  ii. 
2. — combines  harmony  with  firmness,  x.  5.— 
the  way  of,  is  far-reaching  and  yet  secret,  xn. 
—distinguished  by  entire  sincerity,  xiii.  4.— 
in  every  variety  of  situation  pursues  the 
Mean,  and  finds  his  rule  in  himself,  xiv.— 
pursues  his  course  with  determination,  xx. 
20.  21.— endeavours  to  attain  to  the  glorious 
path  of  the  sage,  xxvii.  6,  7, — prefers  con- 
cealment of  his  virtue,  while  the  mean  i 
seeks  notoriety,  xxxiii.  1. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INZ>EX  VI. 


SUBJECTS  129   THE  DOCTRINE   OF  THE   MEAN. 


313 


Three  kings,  the^founders  of  the  three  dynas- 
ties, xxix.  3. 

Three  virtues,  wherewith  the  relative  duties 
are  practised,  xx.  8. 

Three  things,  important  to  asorereign,  xxix.  1. 


Three   hundred  rules  of  ceremony,  and  three 
thousand  rules  of  demeanour,  xxvii.  3. 


Virtue  in  its  highest  degree  and  influence, 
xxxiii.  4,  5,  6. 

Virtuous  course,  the  commencement  and  com- 
pletion of  a,  xxxiii. 


INDEX  VI. 


OF  PROPER  NifMES  IN  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  THE  MEAN. 


c 

ChHng*  the  philosopher,  Introductory  note. 
Chow  dynasty,  xxviii.  5. 
Chow,  the  duke  of,  xviii.  3  ;  xix. 
Chung-ne,  designation  of  Conf.,  ii.  1 ;  xxx.  1. 
Confucian  school,  Introductory  note, 

G 

Gae,  the  duke  of  Loo,  xx.  1. 

H 

Hea  dynasty,  xxviii.  5. 

H  wa,  the  name  of  a  mountain,  xxvi  9. 

Hwuy,  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  viiL 

K 

Ke,  a  small  State  in  which  sacrifices  were  main- 
tained to  the  emperors  of  the  Ilea  dynasty, 
xxviii.  5. 

Ke-leih,  the  duke,  who  received  from  Woo  the 
title  of  king,  xviii.  2,  3. 


H 

Ucncius,  Introductory  note* 


Shun,  the  emperor,  vi.;  xvii.  1 ;  xxx.  1. 

Sung,  a  state  in  which  sacrifices  were  main- 
tained to  the  emperors  of  the  Yin  dynasty, 
xxviii  5. 


T'ae,  the  duke,  T'an-foo,  who  received  from 

Woo  the  title  of  king,  xviii.  2,  3. 
Tsze-loo,  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  x.  1. 
Tsze-sze,  Introductory  note;  concluding  notes  to 

chapters,  i.;  xii.;  xxi.;  xxxiii. 


W 


Wan,  the  king,  xvii.  4 ;  xviii.;  xx.  2 :  xxvL  10 : 

xxx.  1. 
Woo,  the  king,  xviii.;  xix.;  xx.  2 :  xxx.  1. 


Yaou,  the  emperor,  xxx.  1. 
Yin  dynasty,  xxviii.  5. 
Yoh,  the  name  of  a  mountain,  xxvi.  9. 
Yung,  a  distinguished  scholar,  aj>.  1064—1085, 
Concluding  note  to  ch.  i. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  VIL 

OP   CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES  ; 

IXTBHDBD    ALSO   TO    HELP    TOWARDS    THB    FORMATION    OF    A    D1CTIOKART    AKD  COXCORDAXCX 

FOR  THE  CLASSICS. 

A.  stands  for  Analects;  <7.L.fn  for  The  Great  Learning,  text;  G.Lx^for  The  Great  learning.  com- 
mentary; J  KM.,  for  The  /Joctrine  of  the  Mean.  In  the  references  to  the  Analects,  books  an 
separated  by  a  colon,  and  chapters  of  the  same  book  by  a  semicolon. 


THE  1st  RADICAL  — \ 

— -        (1)  One,  sometimes=a.  A*,  II.  i.:  IV.  vi. 

yik       2;  xviii.  2:  VI.  lx.;  xxib  et  alibi,  sap*.   G.L. 

yi  c,  x.  13.  D.M.,  viii^  xiii.  4 ;  xxvi.  7, 9.  (2} 
One  and  the  same.  D.M.,  xvi.3;  xx.  9.  (3) 
Singlencss,«xsincerity.  D.Mn  xx.  8,  15. 
(4)  A  unity.  A^IV.xv.l :  XV.ii.  .  (5) 
Adverbially,=by  one  effort.  D.M.,  xx. 
20.  (6)  Af  a  verb,«=to  unite  in  one.  A., 
XIV.  xviii  2.  (7)  —  \,  the  one 
man,  a  designation  of  the  emperor.  A., 
XX.  i.  5.  GX.C,  ix.  8.  (8)  —».... — », 
partly,  now... now.    A.,  XIV.  xviii.  2. 

~fc        Seven.    A.t  II.  iv.  6 :  XL  xxv.  5,  7, 10 ; 

ts'eik    XHL  xxix:  XIV.  xL 
chi 

—        (1)  Three.    A.,  I.  xi:  H.  il;lv.  2:  HI. 

son  ii.:  et  alibi,  scepe*  D.M.,  xviii.  3 ;  xx.  8, 11 ; 
xxvii.  8;  xxix.  1.  (2)  Adverbially ,— 
thrice.  A.,  V.  xviii.  1 :  VHI.  i.:  X.  xviii.  2. 

Into  three  parts.  A.,VIILxx.4.  But^ 

2=1 ,  Au,  L  iv.,  on  three  points.    (8)  ^^ 

—t  -^-,  ye,  disciples.  A.,  m.  xxiv.: 
VII.  xxiii.:  IX.  xi.  8 :  XI.  x.  3 ;  XVH.  iv. 
4.  (4)  2jj^  T,  three  kings;  t>M  the 
founders  of  the  three  great  dynasties.  D. 
M„  xxix.  8.    (5)  "~^  £eS,  the  name  of  a 

tower.  A.,  IH.  xxii.  2.  (6)  ^^&,  A , 
XVIII.  ix.  2,*=the  band-master  at  the 
third  meal. 

^S         Up.  3d  tone.  Thrice.    A.,  V.  xix.:  XL 

san      ts  XVUI.  ii. 

K         (1)  He,  she,  it,  this,  that,  which  is 

shang  above,    with    the    corresponding    plu- 

chang  rals.     A^  I.  ii.  1 ;  HI.  xxvi.:  et  sctpius. 

G.L.C.,  x.   1,   2,     20.      D.M.,    xiv.     3; 

et  al.     (2)    AdverbiaUy,=upwards.    A., 

XIV.  xx  iv.;  xxxvii.  2.   (In  these  instances 

,     some  tone  it  low.  2d  tone).     D.M.,  xviii 

3;  xxx.  1.    (8)  ffi....  f* ,  in  or  on  the 

above  of.....    A.,  VI.  vii.:  IX.  xvi.    D.M.,  , 
xvi.  3.    (4)  J2.~T^*  a^°ve»  below,  in  op- 
position, applied  to  heaven  and  earth.  A., 


VTI.xxx.  D.M^xii.3.  (5)^Jt^ 
JB ,  the  grass,  when  the  wind  is  upon  it 

A^  XII.  xix.    (G)  J^^God'the,nott 
High  God.    G.L.C,  x.  5.    D.M .,  xix.  G. 
>p         Up.  2d  tone.'  To  ascend;  proceeding  np> 

d^«ngW•r,i,•    J^±.>-VI.xix.;VU.TU. 

T\         Anciently,  upper  2d  tone.    He  she,  it, 

hea      this,  thaj,  which  is  below,  with  the  cor- 
hsia     responding  plurals;  both  positive,  and 

superlative.    An  IX.  iii.  2 :  X.  it  1 :  XVI. 

ix.    G.L^.,  x.  2,  20.      D.M.,  xiv.  3 ;  xix. 

4 ;  xx.  6,  17;  xxix.  2.    (2)  J^  ~Jv  m 

on  _£.•    (3)  ^  or^p *~[C,  in  or 

on  the  beneath  of... .A.,  XIL  xxiL  I: 
XVII.  xii.  1.  (4)  ^  ~|^,  the  world, 
the  empire.  A.,  IH.  xi.;  xxiv.:  TV,  x^ 
ct  al.  G.L.T.,  4,  5 :  c^  viiL  1 ;  ix.  4  ;  x.  1, 
4.    D.M.,  i.  4 ;  x.  i.:  et  al    (o)  Occurs  in 

the  proper  name  ttD  T\  BC,  A^  XV. 
xiii.:  XVIII.  ii;  viiL  1,  3. 
A  verb,  low.  3d  tone.    To  descend.  A, 

HL  viij  V.  xiv.:  et  al    (2)   j£j[  ~|\, 

downwards.    A.,  VI.  xix.     (3)      K  A, 

to  humble  one's-self  to  others.  A-,  XlL 
xx.  5. 

a^        "^t  A  >  ***  old  man.   A^  XVHL  viL  L 

chang 

X\%        Not.    Passim, 
puh 
pu 

fl^       Moreover ;  and  moreover.    A.,  IT.  ifl.  $ ; 

ts'eay  VI.  iv.:  VII.  xv.:  VIIL  xi.;  xiii.  3:  IX. 
chieh  xi.  3 :  XI  xxv.  4  :  XVI.  i.  4, 17 :  XVI1L 
vi.  3.    D.M.,  xv.  2 ;  xxvi.  7. 

•ftfr        (1)   An    age,    a   generation.    A,  H 

she       xxiii.  1.  2:  VI.  xiv.:   XHI.  xti-  XVL 

shih    i.  8;  ii.   1;  iii.     D.M.,   XI.  Lj  xxviil 

1 ;  xxix.  3,  4.    (2)  To  aU  ages.     D  JL, 

xxix.  5.    (8)  j£^=afterdeatli.    A, 

XV.  xix.     G.L.c,  iii.  5.     (4)  £g  {{h 

interrupted   generations;    U-,   famuttt 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


hea 
hsia 


INDEX   VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND  PHRASES. 


315 


whose  line  of  succession  has  been  broken. 
A*  XX.  i.  8.  DJVU  xx.  14.  (5)  The 
vrorld.    A.,  XlV.xxxiv.:  XVIII.  vi.  3. 

G.L.C.,  xi.  3.     (6)  |t£  ^,  as  a  proper 

name.    A.,  XIV.  ix. 

j£  (1)  A  hillock.    A.  XIX.  xx.    (2)  The 

hew      name  of  Confucius.    Used  by  himself. 

chin  A,  V.  xxviiL:  VII.  xxiii.;  xxx.  3 ;  xxxiv.: 
et  aL  1XM.,  xiii.  4.  Applied  to  him 
contemptuously.  A.,  XIV.  xxxiv.  1: 
XVIII.  vi.  2,  3.  (3)  Part  of  a  double 
surname.    A.,  V.  xxi. 

ife         Properly  written  y£.  Together,  along- 

ping  aide.  A.,  XIV.  xlvii.  2 :  XIX.  xvi.  G. 
I*c.,  x.  22.    DM.,  xxx.  3. 

THE  2d  RADICAL.     J  . 

Sf+        — » sf+   hj  one  man.  G.L.O.,  x.  18. 

ko 

p£|         The  middle.  (l)p|j,  and^or^.... 

cAW  p|j,  in,  in  the  midst  of.  A.,  II.  xriii.  2 : 
V.  i.  1 :  VII.  xv.:  X.  xvii.  2 :  XV.  xxi.: 
XVI.  i.  4,  5.  (2)  The  heart  G.L.C.,  vi. 
2.  (3)  The  Mean.  A.,  VI,  xxvii.:  XX. 
L  1.    D.M.,  i  4,  5 ;  ii.  1,  2*:  et  passim,  (4) 

ptl  fiB,  the  Middle  kingdom,  China. 
G.Lx.,x.l6.  D.M.,xxxL4.  (5)  C^^lt' 
midway,  halfway.  A.,  VI.  x.  (6)  pb  ^, 

mediocre  men.  A.,  VI.  xix.  (7)  pfa  P*l , 
to  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  gateway. 
A,  X.  iv.2.  (8)  pjj  ^j,  to  walk  in 
the  Mean,  to  act  entirely  right.  A.,  XIII. 
xxi.  Comp.  D.M.,  xxxi.  1.  (9).  pfa  &n 
the  name  of  a  place.   A.,  XVII.  vii.  2. 

t^lP  Up.  3d  tone.  To  hit  the  mark ;  hitting 
chung  the  mark ;  exact.    A.,  XI.  xiii.  3 ;  xviii. 

2 :  XIII.  iii.  6 :  XVIII.  viii.  3,  4.      G.L. 

c,  ix.  2.   D.M.,  i.  4 ;  xx  18. 

THE  3d  RADICAL.     *  . 

^fc  (1)  To  count  as  chief  or  principal.  A., 
choo  I.  viii.  2:  III.  xvi.:  IX.  xxiv. :  XII.  x. 
chu     (2)   A  master,  president.  A.,  XVI.  i.  4. 

THE  4th  RADICAL   J  . 

75r       To  be.    M  7$.5fi  «  H*  *•  * 

not  not....?  A.,  VI.  i.  3:  XIV. xxxiv. u  XVI. 
nai      i.  3. 

SK        Long,  for  a  long  time.    A.,  III.  xxiv, : 

hew  IV.  ii. :  et  al,  D.M.  iii.;  xxvi.  2,  4,  5,  8. 
chiu    After  a  long  time.    A.,  V.  xvi. 

j£       (1)  A  particle  of  interrogation.  Found 

hoo      alone;    preceded    by  another   interrog. 

*u       part. ;  prec.  by  ^  "fy.    A.,  1. 1;  iv.:  IL 

vii.;  viii.;  XYiL:  VI.  xxviii.:  VII.  xiv.  L  2 : 


1900 

wu 

z 

die 
chin 


tt  al^  scepe.  G.L.C.,  iii.  2.  (2)  A  particle 
of  exclamation.  A.,  VI.  v.:  VIII.  xviii, 
6  ;  xix.  1,  2 :  IX.  xx.:  tt  aL    D.M.,  xvi.  3 ; 

xxvii.  2.    Foil,  by  j*H£,  giving  emphasis. 

A.,  III.  xiv.:  VII.  xxix.:  etal  Prec.  by  j*£. 

A.,  XII.  xxii.  5:  XIV.  xlii.  1,  2.  (3) 
Partly  interrog.,  partly  exclam.    In  thia 

usage  it  is  sometimes  preceded  by  )j/\ 

jh. ;  it  is  often  prec.  by  "j£ ;  and  by  2& 

immed.  before  it.  A.,  H.  xxi.  2 :  III.  vii.j 
xi.:  IV.  vi.  2 :  V.  xviii.  1,2:  et  al^  scepe, 
G.L.O,  iv.  1 ;  vi.  3.  D.M.,  iii.;  xv.  2 ;  xvi, 
2 ;  xviii.  2 ;  xix.  2 :  et  aL  (4)  As  a  pre» 
position,  after  verbs  and  odjectives^ssin, 
to,  &c.  A.,  I.  x.  2 :  H.  xvi.:  VIII.  iv.  3 : 
XVIII.  x.;  et  aL  saepe.  G.L.C.,  ix.  4 ;  x. 
6.  D.M.,  i.  2 ;  vii.;  xiv.  1,  2,  5 :  et  a/.,  507?*, 
(5)  Than,  in  comparison.  A.,  XI.  xxv.  2 : 

XVII.  xxii. :  XIX.  xxv.  D.M , 1 4,  ||... 

5£.    (G),SjL^.,  how.    A,  IV.  v.2, 

(7)  Observe  j|  ^  ^,  A,  VL  xii., 

and  3£  jff  Jj£,  XL  xviii.  1. 

Up.  1st  tone.    Joined  with  mv.     An 
exclamation.   D.M.,  xxvi.  10. 

(1)    Of.  A.,  I.  ii.  2 ;  v.;  xi.  U  et  passim. 

G.L.T.,  1,  4;  a,  iii.  liet  passim.  "DM, 
ii.  2 ;  viii.;  et  passim.    In  the  construct 

state,  the  regent  follows  the  Js*,  and  the 

regimen  precedes.  They  may  be  respec- 
tively a  noun,  a  phrase,  or  a  larger 
clause.  (2)  Him,  her,  it,  them.  A.,  I, 
vii.:  XIV.  xviii.  1 ;  xix.  2  :  et  passim.  So, 
in  G.L.,  and  D.M.    (3)  It  is  often  difficult 

to  find  the  antecedent  to   >*,  and  it 

seems  merely  to  give  a  substantive  force 
to  the  verb.      A.,  II.  xiii.:  Ill,  xxiii.; 

XVII.  ix.  6 :  XV.  2,  3:  et  sape.  D.M.,  xx. 
.  18,  19,  20 :  et  aL     (4)    ^|  £,,  G.L.c, 

viii.  2 ;  x.  13,  as  in  (2),  but  ^  j£  and 

jSl  ^*  are  more  like  our  use  of  imper- 
sonal verbs.  G.L.C.,  ix,  1.  A.,  IV.  vi.  3. 
(5)  Where  I?*  comes  in  a  sentence  with 
Hrt  it  is  generally  transposed.  G.L.T.,  7. 

A.,IV.vi.3:«*a£  So.  H^^fljSfe 
D.M.,  vii. :  et  aL  AH  negative  adverbs 
seem  to  exert  this  attractive  force.     (6) 

>£  SH' lt  i8  caUed*  D*M-'  L  L  G Lc- 
vi.  1.  A.,  XVI.  xii.  2 :  et  aL  |}|<^  i§ 
different,  and  comes  under  (2).    So,  ^£ 

£,  A.,  XIX.  xxiii.  2.  (7)  Obs.  the  idiom 
in  A.,  VI.  iii.  3  :  XI.  vii.  1,  2 ;  xxv.  11  : 

XVIII.  LI.    W^n^i^f,  how.    A., 

III.  xix.:  XI.  xix. :  et  aL      (9)   Jg  ^, 

died  with,  or  for,  him.  A.,  XIV.  xviL  lt 

^7K 


Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


316 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND    PHRASES. 


INDEX   VII. 


(10)  ^  ^  |^,  A.,  XXV.  xHi.  8.    (11) 

~^&,  in  regard  to.   G.L.c,  viii  1.   (12) 

*"$:>  this.  G.L.c,  ix.  6.  (13)  As  a 
rerb.  To  go,  or  come,  to.  A.,  V.  xviii.  2 : 
XIII.  xix.:  et  at.  (14)  Part  of  a  nians 
name.    A.,  VI.  xiii. 

%        To  mount,  to  ride ;  spoken  of  horses, 

shmg  carriages,  boats.  A.,  V.  vi  :  VI.  in.  2 : 
ch'engXV.  x.  8  ;  xxv. 

jjfe  Low.  8d  tone.  (1)  A  carriage.  A„  I. 
thing  v.:  V.  vii.  2,  3 :  et  al.  G.L.C.,  x.  22  (2) 
ch'eng  A  team  of  4  horses.    A,  V.  xviii.  2. 


lew 
chin 


ew 
chiu 

t; 

k'eih 
cli'i 

•tfc 

yeh 


THE  5th  RADICAL.   £. 

Nine.  A.,  VI.  iii.  3 :  VUI.  xxi.  3 :  XVI. 

x.     *h    ife,  the  nine  rude  tribes  on  the 

east.    A.,  IV.  xir.     ^  $£,  the  nine 
standard  rules  of  govt.    D.M.,  xx.  12,  15. 
Up.  1st  tone.    To  collect.     A.,  XIV. 
xvii.  2. 

To  beg.    A.,  V.  xxiii 


(1)  A  particle  used  at  the  end  of  sen- 
tences. Sometimes  it  might  be  dispensed 
with,  and  at  others  it  is  felt  to  be  neces- 
sary, not  only  to  the  euphony  and  strength 
of  the  style,  but  also  to  give  clearness 
and  definiteness  to  the  meaning.  A.,  I. 
ii.  1 ;  viii.  2 :  X.  i.;  ii.  1,  2  ;  iii.  1,  2,  3,  4, 
5  :  et  passim.  So  also  in  G.L.,  and  D.M. 
It  closes  also  the  ditf.  clauses  in  a  long 
predicate,  where  we  might  use  the  * ;  *  in 
English.  D.M.,  xxv.  8 :  et  al.  (2)  It  is 
used  after  proper  names,  after  some  ad- 
verbs, and  after  a  clause,  in  the  first 
member  of  a  sentence,  and  may  be  con- 
strued ass=<M  to,  the  Latin  quoad.  A.,  I. 
X.  1,  2  ;  xv.  3  :  VII.  xxv.  1 :  XI.  vi.;  xii. 
3 ;  xiv.  2  ;  xv.;  xvi.  1  ;  xvii.  1,  2,  3.  4 :  el 
passim.  So,  in  G.L,  and  D.M.  In 
these  cases  it  is  followed  at  the  end  of 
the  sentence,  by  another  particle, — itself, 

$£>  M>  *£'  (3)  AS  corrplttU*  of  %> 
in  explanation  of  terms.  G.L.c,  iii.  4; 
vi.  1 ;  x.  7.  D.M.,  xxv.  A.,  III.  viii.  3: 
XII.  xvii.:  et  a/,  scepe.    (4)  At  the  end  of 

sentences,  we  find  ^g*  -HI,  sometimes 
preceded  by  ^g*,  sometimes  not.      In 

these  cases,  J&  may  often  be  explained 

as  imparting  a  participial  or  adjective 
power  to  other  characters,  but  not  so  al- 
ways.    A.,  V.  xx vi:  VI.  ii.:  Vll.  xix.:  el 

scepe.    So,  in  G.L.,  and  D.M.    (5)  •fjl 

yp:  in  the  first  member  of  a  sentence, 
resuming  a  previous  word,  and  followed 
by  an  explanation  or  account  of  it.  A„ 
I.  ii.  2.     D.M.,  i.  2,  4  :  et  a/.,  sapt.     J3;— 


Iwan 
luan 


•3d,  interrog.  A.,  III.  xxii  1 :  V.  xvuV- 
VI.  xxv.  (7)  As  a  final,  it  appears  oftea 
followed  by  other  particles: — -Hj.  IS; 

(1)  To  confound;  unregulated;  con- 
fusion, insurrection.  A.,  VH.  xx.:  VIII. 
ii.;  x.;  xiii.  2 :  X.  viii.4:  XV.xxtL;  XVII. 

viii.  3 ;  xviii.;  xxiii.:  XVIII.  vii.  5.  ^fe 
ml ,  to  raise  confusion,  or  insurrection. 

A.,  I.  ii.  1.  G.L.T..  7:  c„  ix.3.  DM^  xx. 
14.  (2)  To  put  in  order ;  able  to  govern. 
A.,  VIII. xx.  2.  (3)  The  name  of  a  certain 
part  in  a  musical  service.   A.,  VUI.  xv. 


y« 

ytt 


sze 
chih 


urh 

yun 
yiin 


3£ 

ICOO 

wu 

hoo 
hu 


THE  6th  RADICAL. 


J 


(1)  I,  me,  my.  A.,  III.  viii.  3:  VI 
xxvi.;  viii.  3 :  et  al  D.M.,  vii.;  xxxiii  6. 
(2)  Name  of  a  disciple  of  Conf.  A.,  V. 
ix.  1,  2 :  XVII.  xxi.  6. 

(1)  An  affair,  affairs ;  business,  A..  L 
v.;  xiv.:  III.  viii.  2  ;  xv.:  XV.  i.  1  :  et  «/, 
seppe.  G.L.T.,  3 :  c,  ix.  3 ;  x.  20.  D.M., 
xix.  2 ;  xx.  16.  3pJ  I&,  having  trouble- 
some affairs.  A.  II  viii.  Having  an  af- 
fair with.  A.,  XVI.  i.  2.  :$£  J|J,  to 
pursue  business.  A.,  Vni.  v.:  XVII.  I 
2.  &fa  fj|.,  to  manage  business.  A..  XIIL 
xvii.  (2)  Labours ;  the  results  of  labour. 
A.,  XII.  xxi.  3  :  XV.  ix.:  XIX.  vii.  I). 
M.,  xx.  14.     (3)  To  serve.    A.  IX  xv. 

D.M.,  xix.  4 :  et  passim,     (4)   -faf  A 

what  dilficulty  has  he  in  practising  be- 
nevolence ?  so  that  it  may  be  classed  un- 
der (1).    A.,  VI.  xxxiii.  1. 

THE  7th  RADICAL,  ^l- 

(1)  Two.    A.,  III.  xiv.;  Xn.  vii  S:  ix. 
2 :  et  al.    (2)  HE£^»  8ee  El  (3^ 
In,  on,  to,  from.    A.,  II.  iv.  1 ;  xxi  2 : 

XX.  i.  3  :  et  al.  G.L.C.,  iii.  2 :  et  at  D. 
M.,  xvii.  4 :  et  al. 

(1)   Says,  saying;  gen.,  in  quotations. 

A.,  II.  xxi.  2 :  IX.  vi.  4 :  XIV.  xliii  1 : 

XIX.  iii;  xxiii.  4.  gi  -j-y  often  in  G. 
L.,  and  D.M.  Observe  A.,  XVII.  vi 
(2)  Closing  a  sentence,  and  apparently 
=50.    A.,  VII.  xviii.  2  ;  xxxiii. 

Five.      D.M,  xx  8.     A.,  H.  iv.  1,  4: 

XX.  ii.  1 :  et  al. 

~Tj  $!|$»  the  name  of  a  village.  A, 
Vll.  xxviii. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


:ndex  vii. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PIIRASES. 


317 


tt         A  well.    A.,  VI.  xxiv.  1. 

sing 
;hing 

jjjg         Up.  3d  tone.    Frequently.    A.,  XVII. 

h*         i.  2. 

^         *if*  fj£«  ~ tne  band-master  at  the  second 
]a        meal.    A,  XVHI.  ix.  2. 

THE  8th  RADICAL.  -1-. 

-£j         (1)    The  dead.    D.M.,  xix.  5;  xx.  2. 

ira«jr  (2)  To  perish,  to  go  to  ruin.  D.M.,  xxiv.; 
xxxiii.  1.  (3)  To  cause  to  perish.  A., 
Vl.viii.    (4)  Not  at  home.    A.,XVII.i. 

1.     ~£^    h,  a  fugitive.    G.L.C.,  x.  12. 

T*^         Used  as  fflE,  not  having,  being  without. 

woo      A.,  III.  v/V  I.  ii.:  Vn.  xxv.  3 :    XI.  vi.: 
wu        XII.  v.  1 :  XV.  xxv :  XVH.  xvi.  1 :  XIX. 

tt,         ^  jf£,  a  disciple  of  Conf.    A.,  XVI. 
"V   xiii.  1,5.    The  same  as  -^-  j|j\ 

^£  .      (1).    Intercourse,  to  have  intercourse 

keaou  with.  A.,  I.  iv.;  vii.:  V.  xvi.:  XIX.  iii. 
chiao  G.L.c,  iii.  3.  D.M.,  xx.  8.  (2)  To  give, 
to  bestow.    G.L.c,  x.  2. 

Also ;  even  then.  A.,  I.  xii.  2  ;  xiii.:  III. 
xxii.  3 :  V.  xi.;  xx.;  iv.:  et  scepe.  G.L.C, 
iv.  9,  13,  22.  D.M.,  xii.  2 :  et  al  jfisffi 
...jj^,  is  it  not?  But  the  meaning  of 
aUo  may  often  be  brought  out.  A.,  L  i. 
1,  2,  3 :  XX.  ii.  S-.etaL 


jfih 

yi 


heang 
hsiang 


To  offer,  present.    A.,  X.  v.  2. 


A 

jm 
jen 


THE  9th  RADICAL.  A« 

(1)  A  man,  other  men,  man, human- 
ity. A.,  I.  i.  3 ;  iv.;  v.;  x.  2 :  et  passim.  So, 
in  G.L.,  and   D.M.    (2)  As  opposed  to 

J^,  meaning  officers.    D.M.,  xvii.4.  A., 

XI.  xxiv.  3.  (3)  jjUfc  A'  playing  the 
man,  the  style  of  man.  A.,  I.  ii. :  VIII. 
xviii.  2.  ObsA^A^A^ 
A&  GL.C,  iii.  3.  (4)  y|> \y  the 
mean  man,  opp.  to  3"  -4^*,  passim.    (5) 

i^?  A» the **&-  A> vn- xxv :  xvi- 

viii.  1,  2 :  XIX.  xii.  2.  D.M.,  xii.  2 ;  xvii. 
1 ;  xx.  18  ;  xxvii.  1  ;  xxix.  3,  4.     (6)  P^ 

A>  disciples.  A.,  IV.  xv.  2 :  VH.  xxviii. 

lietal  (7)  (fiF^,aIlthepeople,the 
masses.  A.,  XVI.  ii.  3.  G.L.t.  6.  D.M., 
xviii.  3.    (8)   afe     Ky  the  good  man. 


;m 
jen 

km 
chin 

jeng 

it 

see 
shih 

m 

ta 

m 

jin 
jen 

ft 

tai 


* 

/i»^ 


# 


A.,  VH.  xxvi.  2  :  rf  al    (9)  JfjJ£  A» the 

complete  man.    A.,  XIV.  xiii.   (10)  wet 

A,  a  woman.    A.,  VHI.  xx.  8.    (11) 

Jt  A» tne  designation  of  the  wife  of 
the  prince  of  a  State.  AM  XVI.  xiv. 
(13)  Used  in  designations  of  officers,  like 

our  word  man  in  huntsman.    Jq*    K, 

the  border-warden.    A.,  III.  xxiv.    ^jFr 

A>  the  manager  of  foreign  intercourse. 
A^XIV.ix. 

Is  found  passim.    (1)  Benevolence.  (2) 
Perfect  virtue. 

(1)  Now;  the  present,  modern,  time. 

Scepe.  (2)  Used  logically,  by  way  of  in- 
ference. A.,  XI.  xxiii.  4:  XVI.  i,  8,  12. 
D.M.,  xxvi.  9. 

According  as.    A.,  XI.  xiii.  2. 


To  take — to  be  in— office.     A.,  V.  5 ; 

xviii. :  X  V.  vi.  2 :  XVII.  i.  2 :  XVIII.  vii. 
5:  XIX.  xiii. 

Other,  another.    A.,  V.  xviii.  2 :  X,  xi. 

1:  XVI.  xiii.  8:  XIX.  xviii.;  xxiv. 
G.L.C,  x.  13. 

A  measure  of  eight  cubits.    A.,  XIX. 

xxiii.  3. 

(1)  Instead  of,  alternate.    D.M.,  xxx. 

2.    (2)  A  dynasty.    ^  A\r,  the  three 
dynasties ; — Hea,  Shang,  and  Chow.   A., 
HI.  xiv.    Zl4^.    A.,  XV.  xxiv.  2. 
(1)  To  order.    A.,  XIII.  v:  XX.  ii.  3. 

G.L.a,ix.4.  (2)  Excellent.  DJtf^xvii. 
4.    (3)  Specious,  insinuating.  A.,  I.  iii- 

V.  xxiv.    (4)  -^  "B-,  designa.  of  the 

chief  minister  of  Ts'oo.    A.,  V.  xviii.  1. 

(1).  To  do.    A.,  II.  x.  1.  Rarely  found 

in  this  sense.  ?  A.,  XI.  xxv.  3.  (2)  By, 
with,  according  to,  and  perhaps  other 
English  prepositions.  G.L.c,  ix.  5.  D.M., 
xviii.  3  ;  xx.  4.    A.,  I.  v.:  II.  i.;  iii.  1,  2 ; 

v.  3 :  et  passim.    To  this  belong  6jr  J/j[f 

therefore,  that  by  which ;  41^  l/j[,  hence; 

>fef  J/j[,  whereby; — which  are  found 
passim.  (3)  To  take.  This  use  is  analo- 
gous to  the  preced.,  but  the  J^j[  precedes 

the  verb,  and  is  often  followed  by  it, 
without  an  intervening    olject,    as    in 

to  be,  to  consider,  to  be  considered.  Ex- 
amples occur  passim.    We  may  refer  to 

it   the    use  of   J/j[   sometimes    at  the 

beginning   of   a  sentence, ^considering, 


318 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


INDEX   TIL 


yang 

& 

Jin 
jen 

n 

Jtn 
jen 

hsiu 


take  it  that  (4)  To ;  so  as  to.  G.L.T., 
6 :  c,  x.  18.  D.M.,  x.  3 ;  xxvii.  6,  7 ;  xxix. 
3,  4,  6.  A.,  II.  ii;  ix  :  III.  xxiii:  VII. 
1,  2 ;  et  passim.  Sometimes  we  might 
translate  in  these  cases  by— and  thereby. 

But  not  so  in  such  cases  as  J/j[  «j?.  J/j[ 

K,  j£C~[v  &c.    (5)  It  is  often  found 

after  ^J*.    "pf  J^j[,  may,  may  be.    (6) 

To  use,  to  be  used.  A.,  III.  xxi, :  X.  xri. 
2 :  XIII.  xiv.  XVIH.  x.  (7)  The  follow- 
ing  instances  are  peculiar.  GX.C,  iii. 
5.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  6.  A,  XIV.  xiv.  2: 
XV.  xxx.:  XIX.  xxv.  4 :  XX.  i.  8. 

To  look  up  to  A.,  IX.  x.  1 :  XIX.  xxi. 

Low.  1st  tone.  B9  f^,  a  man's  name. 
A.,  XVI.  L  6. 

(1)  An  office,  a  charge.    A.,  VIH.  vii. 

1,  2.  D.M.,  xx.  14.  (2)  To  repose  trust 
in.    A.,  XVII.  vi.  1 :  XX.  i.  9. 

(1)  To  attack  by  imperial  authority. 

A.,  XVI.  L  1.  4;  ii.  1.  (2)  To  boast.  A., 
V.  xxv.  3:  VI.  xiii.:  XIV.  ii.  1.  (3)  To 
cut  down,  or  out.  D.M«,  xiii.  2.  GJjjC*, 
x.  22. 

^t  >ffr,  simple  and  upright.    G.L.C., 

x.  15. 

>ffi-^*,  the  minister  of  the  great  T'ang. 
A.,  XII.  xxii.  6. 


^       To  lie  at  the  bottom.    D.M.,  xxxiii.  2. 


fu 

# 

chung 


pih 
Pi 


sze 
szu 

U?et 


The  second  of  three;  the  second  of 
brothers.  Enters  very  commonly  into 
designations,  as  in  that  of  Confucius. 
D.M.,  ii.;  xxx.  A.,  XIX.  xxii,;  xxiii.; 
xxiv.;  xxv.  Of  others.  VI.  i.  2,  3 ;  iv.:  XI. 
ii.  2 :  XII.  ii.:  XIII.  ii  —III.  xxii.  1,  2,  3 : 
XIV.  x.  3 ;  xvii.  1,  2 :  xviii.  1,  2.— V.  xvi. 
—V.  xvii.:  XV.  xiii.— XIV.  xiii.;  xv.— 
XIV.  xx.  2.— XVIII.  vlii.  1,  4.— xvm. 
xi.  A  surname.  A.,  VI.  vi,:  XI.  xxiii.: 
XVIII,  vi. 

The  eldest  of  brothers.  Enters  into 
designations.  A.,  XVI.  xiii,:  XVII.  x.— 
XIV.  xxvi,:  XV.  vi,  2,— II.  vi.:  V.  vii.— 
V.  xxii.:  VII.  ix.  2:  XVI.  xii.:  XVIII. 
vlii— VI.  i.  2.— XVIII.  xi.  bis,— XIV. 
xxxviii.:  XIX.  xxiii.  2.— VIII.  i.  1.— VI. 
vlii.:  XI.  ii.  2.    A  surname,    An  XIV.  x. 

Like  to,  as.  A.,  X.  i.  1 }  iv.  3t  4.  D.M., 
xv,  5, 

Position,  status.  A„  IV.  xiv.j  X.  iv.  3, 
6:  etal.  D.M.,  XIV.  1,  3;  et  al  J^jfy 
ffi  jM,  Heaven  and  Earth  get  their 
places.    D.M.,  i.  5. 


ft 

yih 

yi 

yew 
yu 

fa 

ho 


Idleness.    A„  XVI.  v. 


To  aid.    D.M.,  xvii.  4. 


ft 

tsdh 
tso 


ning 


peih 

# 

yih 

yi 

m 

sze 
shin 

t£ 

sze 
shih 


ft 


Lie 
lai 


What,  what  kind  of,  how.  A.,  IL  v.  3; 
vii.;  xv.;  xxiL  1 :  XVII.  v.  2  ;  ix.;  xix-  2, 
3  :  et  sape.    G.L.C.,  vi.  2.    (2)  f[g  <fftf 

generally  with  ^g*  between.  What,  im- 
plying difficulty,  indignation,  or  surprise. 
Other  word*  are  fouud  also  between  the 

"mj  and  im\  and  then  the  phrase=whit 

has to  do  with ?    GX..C-,  x.  22. 

An  III.  xviii.:  IX.  v.  2 ;  xiii.  2  ;  xxiii:  et 

sops.  (3)  >fef  A|J>  what  as  ?= what  do 
you  think  of?  how  can  it  be  said?  A, 
I.  xv.  1 :  V.  iii.;  xvii.  1,  2  :  et  scepe.    (4) 

iTOj>Q,  gen.,  but  not  always, = will  have 
no  difficulty.  A.,  VI.  vi.:  VIL  ii.:  XIIL 
Xiii:  e/oZ.    (5)-{af  Jj^gen^why.    A^ 

VI.  xxivj  DC.  xv.:  XIV.  xxvi.  2 ;  xxiv.: 

et  al 

(1)  To  make,  produce.  GX-c,  ix.  3. 
A.,  I.  ii.  2 :  XI.  xiii.  2.  To  do.  A^  VIL 
xxvii.  (2)  To  lay  the  foundation  o£  to 
be  a  maker  or  author.  A.,  VII.  L  D3L, 
xviii.  1.  (3)  To  make,=to  be.  A^  XIII. 
xxii.  (4)  To  be  begun.  A.,  m.  xxiii 
(5)  To  rise,  arise.  A.,  IX.  ix.:  X.  xvi.  4 ; 
xviii.  2 :  XI.  xxv.  7 :  XIV.  xL 

Glib-tongued.    A.,  V.  iv.  1,  2 :  VL  xi?^ 

XI.  xxiv.  4 :  XIV.  xxxiv.  1,  2 :  XV.  x.  6: 
XVI.  iv. 
A  surname.    A.,  XVTL  vii.  1,  2. 


A  row  of  pantomimes.    A.,  TIT,  i. 


Up.  3d  tone.   To  send  on  a  mission ;  to 
be  commissioned.   A-,  VI.  iii.  1 :  XIIL  v.; 
xx.:  XIV.  xxvi.  1,  2. 
%  Up.  2d  tone.    (1)  To  cause.  G.L.C.,  iv. 

D.M.,  xvi.  3.  A.,  II.  xx.:  IU.  xxL:  XVIIL 
vi.  1 ;  vii.  4 ;  x.:  et  al  (2)  To  employ ;  to 
be  employed.  G.L.C.,  x.  22.  D3Cn  xx. 
14.  A„  V.  vii.  2,  3,  4 :  VI.  vi;  vii.:  et  al 
(3)  To  treat,  behave  to.  G.L  c,  ix.  1 ; 
x.  2.  A^  II.  xix.:  V.  xv.  (4)  Supposing 
that.    A^VIU.xi. 

To  accord  with,    D.Mn  xi.  3.  An  VIL 

vi.  3. 

(1)  To  come.  A.,  L  i.  2 :  et  al  (2)  To 
encourage,  induce  to  come.  D.M.,  xx. 
12,  13.  A.  xvi.  i.  11,  12:  XIX.  xxv.  4, 
(3)  Coming,  future.  A^  IX.  xxii.:  XVIIL 

Y':l'%te6  by  G00gk 


INDEX    TIL 


CHINESE    OIAKACTERS   AND   P1IKASES. 


319 


$L         Straightforward,  bold.     jffc  |Jj[,  A., 

l**a«      X.  ii.  I :  XI.  xii.  1. 

-fi         To  be  by,  in  attendance  on.    A.,  V. 

she        xxv.:  X.  xiii.  2 :  XI.  xii.  1 ;  xxv.  1 :  XVI. 
shin,      vi. 

f|gj         Stupid.    A,Vni.xri 

4tj£        To  contemn ;  be  contemned.    A.,  XVI. 
woo      vii.  2 :  XVII.  vi. 

*'?■*    fig*  fcfr  with  specious  airs.    A.,  XVI. 

iv. 
^^        To  wear  at  the  girdle.    A.,  X.  vi.  8. 
piei 
"(Ji        To  watch  over,  preserve,  protect.    G. 

pw.n     L.  i\  ix.  2 ;  x.  13»    D.M.,  xvii.  1,  4 ;  xviii. 
pao      2  :  xxvii.  7.     (2)  To  undertake,  be  secu- 
rity for.    A.,  VII.  xxviii.  2. 
^g        (1)  Sincere,  sincerity  ;  to  believe,  to  be 
«i'jt        believed  in.    A.,  I.  iv.;  v.;  vi.;  viii.  2  :  et 
hsan     icrpe.    G.L.C,  iiL  3 ;  x.  17.    D.M.,  xx.  14, 
17 ;  xxix.  2  ;  xxxi.  3  ;  xxxiii.  8.      (2)  An 
agreement.    A.,  I.  xiii.    (2)  Truly,  true. 
A.,  XH.  xL  8:  XIV.  xiv  1.    (4)  >(=j 

Js*,  to  show  them  sincerity.     A.,  V. 
xxv.  4. 

^?        P§  <§^»  tne  Prince8»  a  Prince»  °*  tne 

how     empire.    D.M.,  xviii.  3;  xx.  13,  13,  14. 

hou     A.,  XI.  xxvii.  1 :  XIV.  xvii.  2 ;  xviii.  2: 

XVI.  ii. 

A  vessel  used  m  sacrifice.  A.,  XV.  i.  1. 


tsoo 
tsu 


tze 

szu 

keu 
chii 


To  wait  for.    DM.,  xiv.  4 ;  xxix.  8,  4. 
A.,  X.  xiii.  4 :  XI.  xxv.  5. 

All  of  two  or  more.    A.,  XTV.  vi. 
To  grant,  allow.    G.L.c,  x.  13. 


pel 

'fS       (1)  To  act  contrary  to,  be  insubordi- 

pei     nate.    G  L.c,  x.  1.    D.M.,  xxvii.  7.    (2) 

Impropriety.    A.,  VIII.  iv.  8. 
>fi£       (1)  To  incline  on  one  side.    D.M.,  x.  5. 
€       (2)  To  depend  on.    D.M.,  xxxii.  1.    (3) 
i       To  be  close  by,  attached  to.  A ,  XV.  v.  3. 
Wearied.    A.,  VII.  ii.;  xxxiii.:  et  aL 


keuen 
chiian 


To  lend.    A.,  XV.  xxv. 


tseay 
chieh 


><&       (1)  Principles  of   righteous   conduct. 
tun      D.M.,  xxvii.  3.    A.,  XVIII.  viii.  3.    (2) 


Degrees,  as  of  comparison.  D.M.,  xxxiii. 
6.  (3)  The  invariable  relations  of  so- 
ciety.   A.,  XVIII.  vii.  6. 

?  Dimples.    A.,  Ill,  viii.  1. 


chien 


jg        (1)  To  bend,  or  lie  down.    A.,  XIII. 
yen      xix.    (2)  Name  of  one  of  Couf.  disciples. 

A.,  VI.  xii.:  XVII.  iv.  3,  4. 
fi|j        Partial,  perverse.    A,,  IX.  xxx.  1. 


p'een 
p;ien 


To  approach  to.    D.M.,  xxxiii  4. 

48       tgjg.-^    A.,Xm.xxTiiL 

sze 
sz( 

^       Mean.    A.,  VIII.  ii.  2. 

MO 
U 

By  the  side.    A.,  VII.  ix.:  XI.  xii 


sze 
szu 

tan 

Pow 
t'ou 

m 

tsih 

tse 

>ftfe        To  hand  down,  as  a  teacher.    A.,  XIX. 

dihitn  xiL  2.    Observe  A.,  I.  iv. 

ch'uan 

^        Falling.    D.M.,  xvii  8. 

kling 

ch'ing 

£&,       To  disgrace.    G.L.c.,  x.  4. 

luh 

lu 

'flU  All-complete,  equal  to  every  service. 

pe  A.,  XIII.  xxv.:  XVm.  x. 

pei 

<tfjL  To  hurt,  to  be  hurtfully  excessive.    A., 

$hang  m  xx .  XIX.  xxiv.      >^*|^^,  what 

harm  is  there  in  that?    A.,  XI.  xxv.  7. 

4£t  To  act  aa  driver  of  a  carriage.     A., 

puh      XIII.  ix.  1. 

p'o 

$El       Dignified.    G.L.c,  iii.  4. 

keen 

ch'ien 

fift       A  man's  name.    A^  XIV.  xix. 

seen 
hsien 

To  judge,  calculate.    A.,  XI.  xviii.  2 : 
XIX.  xxxiii. 

4&        Parsimonious,  thrifty.     A.,  IIL  iv.  3 : 

keen     xxu.  2 :  VII.  xxv.:  IX.  iii.  1. 

chien 

fS       To  ruin,  overturn.    G.L.c,  Ix.  3. 

fun 
fen 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


320 


CniNESE    CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


INDEX    VII. 


'UH        A  scholar.    A.,  VI.  xL 


ft 

e 
i 


ft 

yu 


yen 


(1)  Deportment.  G.L.c.,  Ix.  8.  (8) 
Example,  G.L.c,  x.  5.  (3)  fljg  j||, 
rules  of  cere.uony.     Ed?  yBL,  rules  of 

deportment.  D.M.,  xxvii.  3.  G.L.C.,  iii. 
4.  (4)  The  name  of  a  place.  A.,  HI. 
xxiv. 

Abundant,  more  than  adequate.  AM 
XIV.  xii.:  XIX.  xiii.  ^|  |g,  D.M„ 
xxvii.  3. 

Certain  ceremonies  to  expel  eril  influ- 
ences.   A.,  X.  x.  2. 

H|  ^,  stem.,  dignified-like.  A^ 
XIX.  ix*:  XX.  ii.  2. 

THE  10th  RADICAL.  J\^. 


fc        Sincerely.    A.  XX.  i.  1. 

vun 
Jun 

y^       An  elder  brother.    ^  ^t  elder  and 

A«tfii^r  younger  brothers.     A  brother.    A.,  II. 

hsiung  xxi.  2 :  V.  i.  2 :  Xn.  ?.  1,  4 :  et  al    Obs- 

A.  XHI.vii.   G.L.c,  ir.  7,  8.   D.*L,  xiii. 

4;  xv.  2. 
•^       (1)   First,  former,  before.    A.,  II.  xiii.: 
seen      X.  xiii.  1  :  et  al    So,   in   G.L.  and  D.M. 
hsien   ^  J,  the  ancient  kiuge.    A.,  I.  xii.  I. 

=*a  former  king.    A.,  XVI.  i.  4.     (2) 

Ancestors.    D.M.,  xix.  6.    Comp.   4h 

$g,  A.,  XI.  i.  (3)  -fa  t\: ,  elders.  II.  viii.: 
XIV.  xlvii.  2.  (4)  To  make  first,  or  chief. 
A.,  VI.  xx.:  XII.  xxi.  3:  XIII.  ii.  (5)  -^ 
j£t  A.,  XIII.  i.  To  give  an  example 
to. 


ft 

§een 
hsien 

% 

k'ih 
k'o 

% 

mien 
mien 

% 

sze 
hsi 


king 
ching 


Up.  3d  tone. 
GX.c,  x.  2,  15. 


To  precede.    Quickly. 


(1)  To  be  able,  to  attain  to.  G.L.c,  i. 
1,  2 ;  x.  5.  (2)  To  subdue.  A.,  XII.  i.  1. 
(8)  The  love  of  superiority.  A^  XIV. 
ii. 

(1)  To  escape,  avoid.  A.,  II.  iii.  1 :  V. 
i.  2 :  et  al.  (2)  To  dispense  with,  have 
done  with.    A.,  XVII.  xxi.  6. 

A  rhinoceros.    A.,  XVI.  i.  7. 

ftS  T&b  KVV^®M*x*  and  caution?. 
A.,  vm.  iii. 


A 

J* 


ft 

nuw 
nei 


iff 

tfang 
liang 


A 

/>* 

pa 
hung 


luh 
lu 

f 

hsi 


hung 
ping 


THE  lira  RADICAL.  ^>. 

To  enter.  G.L.c„  x.  1.  D3L,  xit2„ 
A^  III.  xv.:  et  al  }f{,  ^,  abroad, si 
home.  A-,  I.  vi.:  IX.  xv.  3.  But  in  A, 
XIX.  xi,  K|j  ^^to  pass  and  repast. 

•  V  VS*  to  enter  "ato  ▼irtue.     D.M, 

xxxiii.  1. 
Within,  internal,  internally.      LTD  j^ 

j£*  3l»  tne  within  of— that  which  is 
within — the  four  seas ;  Le~,  the  empire. 
D.M.,  xvii.  I:  et  al.  Precede*  the  verb, 
■^internally.  A.,  IV.  xvii.:  et  al  Ob*. 
A.,  X.  xvii.  7.  As  a  verb  G.Ljc  x.  7, 
to  make  the  internal,  t^,  of  primary  im- 
portance. 

Two.  D.M^  vi.  A„  III.  nii.  3:  IX. 
vii. 


THE  12th  RADICAL.  /\. 


Eight.    A.,  III.  L:  XVIII.  xi. 


(1)  Public.    A^  VI.  vii.    (2)  Just.  A^ 

XX.  i.  9.  (3)  A  duke,  dukes.  DJt, 
x viii.  3.  A.  III.  ii j  et  al.  It  often  occur* 
in  connection  with  the  name  and  country 
of  the  noble  spoken  of.    It  enters  also 

into  double  surnames.  ^V  ffl,  A, 
XIV.  xiv.  1, 2  s-^  |i|,  XVI.  V..—4V 
gfj,  VE  xxxiii.:  XI.  xxi;  xx.  v.:— £. 
Jr£,  A^  V.  i.  1.  Obs.  4^,  A^  xm 
viii.— XIV.  xvii.;  xviii.:— ^  ^(,  A^ 
XIV.  xiv..— ^  >f£|,  A„  xxxviii;  /^ 
jfc  A.,  XIX.  xxii.;  ^  P^,  the  palace 

gate.  A^  X.  iv.  1.  'fjkjps*  in  the  princes 
temple.    A.,  X.  viii.  8. 
Six.    A^lLiv.  5:etal 


A  particle  of  exclamation.    0!how! 

Much  used  in  poetry.  GX.cn  iii.  4.  A, 
III.  viii.  1:  XVIII.  v.  1.  In  G.Lx,  x. 
13,  quoted  from  the  Shoo-king,  it  appears 

Together  with,  sharing  with.    A*,  V. 
xxv.  2:  IX.  xxix.  1. 

Up.  2d  tone.    To  move  towards.    A* 
II.  u  X.  xviii.  2. 

Weapons  of  war.    A^  XII.  vii.  1,2: 
XIV.  xvii.  2. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


J 


INDEX    VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


3l>l 


H  The  third  personal  prououn,  in  all  gen- 

Jc-e        ders,    numbers,  and  cases;  the;    that, 
ohi       Passim 

J\-        (1)   B  Bf ,  an  ordinary  minister.    A., 
™       XI.xxiii.4.    (2)=^,alL    G.L.c.,  x.  4. 

JBL        A  classic,  a  canon.    *3f  J$L,  G.L.c, 

te*n       i.  3. 
tien 

-Mh        jflh  \.    A.,  XI.  xxi.,=to  have  more 

Afen      than  one  man's  ability. 

chien 

THE  13th  RADICAL,  |""]. 

35.        A  surname,     m.  >o,    A.,  Ill    vi.. 
i^*       VII.  xiv.:  et  al;  the  same  as  -ffl- >j§»  A., 

VI.  x.:  et  al     $.  'f  £  ^L,  A.,  XI.  ii.  2. 

Observe.  j*]-^p,  A.,  VI.  iii.:  XIII.  xiv. 

ipjl        Repeated,  twice.     A.,  XV.  xix.:  X.  xi. 

isnt       1. 

tsai 

-S.        (1)  A  cap  of  full  dress  or  ceremony.  A., 
mien     VIII.  xxi.:  IX.  iii.  1 ;  ix.:  X.  xvi.  2 :  XV. 
mien    x.  4.    (2)  The  name  of  a  music-master. 
A.,  XV.  xli.  1,  2. 

THE  14th  RADICAL.  *— \ 

^        A  cap.    A.,  X.  vi.  10 :  XX.  ii.  2. 

iwan 
kuan 

^jjj       Up.  3d  tone.     Capped,  *.«.,  young  men 

kwan   about  20.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  7. 
kuan 

3B£       Great,  chief.    ^t£  55?t  the  prime  min- 

ch'ung  ister.    A.,  XIV.  xliii.  2. 

THE  15th  RADICAL.  Jf. 

^JC       Ice.    G.L.C..  x.22.    A.,  VIII.  iii. 

Pin9 

Jm        4^ ?m »  a  double  surname.    A.,  V.  i. 

yeh 

)|j|       To  congeal;  to  settle  and   complete. 

*in9     D.M„  xxvii.  5,  *||  j£>  ^g§. 

THE  16th  RADICAL.  J^. 

Hj       All ;— at  commencement  of  clause.    D. 
fan      M.,  xx.  12,  15,  16 ;  xxxi.  4. 

THE  17th  RADICAL.  |_|. 
pt\       fX|  JJjfc,  mourning  clothes.     A.,  X. 

hfung  xvi.  3. 
biiung 


Hi 

chiuh 
ch'u 


77 

taoit 
tao 

jin 
jen 

# 

fun 
fen 

■W 

ch'ieh 

ftl 

king 
bsing 

*J 

lieh 
li 


(1)  To  go,  or  come,  forth.  A.,  HI. 
xxiv.:  IV.  xv.;  xxi.:  et  al.  To  go  beyond. 
Hj  35jC>  beyond  the  family.  G.L.C.,  ix. 
1.     Hj  ~^_  FT ,  beyond  three  days.    A., 

X.  viii.  8.  FH  A'  8ee  on  A"  W  To 
put  forth.  D3IM  xxxi.  2.  A.,  VIII.  iv. 
3 :  IX.  viii.:  XV.  xvii.     M-J  jjjjfy  to  give. 

A.,  XX.  ii.  2.  Hj  ^p%  to  put  outside. 
A.,  X.  vi.  8. 

THE  18th  RADICAL.  JJ. 
A  knife.    A.,  XVII.  iv.  2. 


A  sharp  weapon.    D.M.,  ix. 


(1)  To  divide ;  to  be  divided.    A.,  VTII. 

xx.  4:  XVI.  i.  12.    (2)  To  distinguish. 
A.,  XVIH.  vii.  1. 

(1)  To  cut.    G.L.C.,  iii.  4.    A.,  I.  xv.  2. 

(2)  Earnestly.    A.,  XIX.  vi.    -JjjJ  4jjj, 

earnest.    A.,  XIII.  xxviii. 

(1)  Punishment.    A.,  H.  iii.  1 :  IV.  xi.: 

V.  i.  2 :  XHI.  iii.  6.  (2)  To  imitate.  D.M, 
xxxiii.  5. 

A  rank  (as  of  office).     A„  XVI.  i.  6. 


pet 
pieh 

U 

che 
chih 

m 

toon 
tao 

M 

tsik 

tse 


(1)  To  sharpen.    A.,  XV.  ix.  ^J  P  t 

sharpness  of  speech.  A.,  XVII.  xviii. 
(2)  Gain,  profit ; — rather  in  a  mean  sense. 
G.L.C.,  x.  22,  23.  A.,  IV.  xii.:  et  a/., 
Beneficial  arrangements;  profitableness; 
profitable.  G.L.C.,  iii.  5 ;  x.  14,  22,  23. 
A.,  IX.  i.:  XX.  ii.  2.  (3)  To  get  the 
benefit  of.  G.L.c,  iii.  5.  To  benefit.  A., 
XX.  ii.  2.    To  desire.    A.,  iv.  it 

Up.  4th  tone.  To  discriminate,  to  dif- 
ference. D.M.,  xxxi.  1.  A-,  U.  vii.:  XIX. 
xii.  2. 

To  determine,  fix.    D.M.,  xxviii.  2. 


Down  to.    A-  XVI.  xii. 


(1)  Then ;  denoting  either  a  logical  con- 
sequence or  sequence  of  time.  Passim. 
$^HlJ,  so  then,  well  then.  A.,  HI.  xxii. 

8 ;  XI.  xv.  8 ;  xxiii.  5.     J||J ,- J||J, 

partly,  partly.  A.,  IV.  xx.  (2)  A  rule,  a 
pattern.  D.M.,  xiii.  2.  (3)  To  make  a 
pattern  of,  to  correspond  to.    A.,  VIIL 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


322 


CHINESE    CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


INDEX   VII. 


jffi        (1)   Before,  the  front.     G.L.c,  x.  2.  • 
Ween    A.  IX.  x.  1.:  X    iii.  2:  XV.  t.  8.     (2)  j 
ch'ien  Formerly.   A.,  XVII.  iv  4.    (3)  Before- 
hand.    P.M.,  xx.  16;  xxiv.     (4)  Former. 
G.L.c,  iii.  5. 
|jj||        Firm,  firmness.    D.M.,  xxxi.  1.  A.,  V. 
kaug     x.:  et  aJ. 


let 
ko 


To  cut.    A„  X.  viii.  3  :  XVII.  iT.  2. 


<jgl)        To  make  first.    A.,  XIV.  ix. 


ch'wang 
ch'uang 


THE  19th  RADICAL,  j}. 


yt        Strength,  power ;  opportunity ;  strongly, 

feih      strenuously.     D.M.,  xx.  10  j  xxxi.  4.    A*, 
li  I.  vi.;  vii.:  VII.  2U :  tt  aL 

~Xjt        Achievement,  work  done.  A.,  VIII.  xix. 

kung    2:  XVII.  vi.:  XX.  i.  9.    D.Mnxx.9. 

jf\\        To  add.    A.,  XIII.  ix.  8,  4.    To  come 

ken      upon,  affect.  IV.  vi.  To  do  to.  V.  xi   To 
chia     lay  upon.   X.  xiii.  8 ;  to  have  in  addition. 
XI.  xxv.  4. 

Jm  Up.  2d  tone,  supposed  to  be  for  fS ,  if. 

keu  A.,  VU.  xvi. 

chia 

f$]  To  help.    A.,  XI.  iii. 

Uoo 

chu 

*j?A        J&fc  i]U,  changing-like,  spoken  of  the 

p6       countenance.    A.,  X.  iii.  1 ;  iv.  3 ;  v.  1. 

*2a 

SL        Valour,  physical  courage ;  bold.    D.M., 

uyng    xx.  8,  10.    A.,  II.  xxiv.  2 :  XIV.  v.;  xiii.; 

xxx.;  et  ai. 
'ftft        To  exert  one's-self,  use  effort.     D.M., 
meen    xiii.  4 ;  xx.  9,  18.    A.,  IX.  xv. 
mien 
flflft       To  move,  as  a  neuter  verb.     D.M.,  xx. 

*"*9     14;xxix.  5;xxxiii.8.    A.,  XH  i.2.  £tf 

t£  Jh,  the  wise  are  active.    A.,  VI. 

xxi.    Obs.  ^  5fi  ^  f|g,  D.M.,  xxiv. 

(2)  To  move,  excite ;  as  an  active  verb. 
D.M.,  xxiii.;  xxvi.  6.    A.,  VIII.  iv.  3 ; 

XV.  xxxii.  3.     ]|fj  ^  ^,  to  stir  up 

hostile  movements.    A.,  XVI.  i.  13. 

?ft        To  attend  to  earnestly,  as  the  chief  thing. 

moo      GX.C,  x.  23.    A^,  I.  ii.  2 :  VI.  xx. 

mu 

ffife       To  exceed,  surpass.    A^  VI.  xvi.:  X. 

shing    viii.  4. 

sheng 

J&       Up.  1st  tone.    To  be  able  for.    A„  X., 

*h'"f    ▼.  1.    Jf^  $j£,  to  transform  the  violent. 


sheng 


A.,  XIII.  xi. 


^B        (1)  Toil,  toiled,  toilsome.    A„  II.  vuu 

loon     Iv  xiii .  viii.  ii.     <^  ;j>,  to   toil  for 

the  people.  XIII.  i.  Comp.  XIV.  viii 
(2)  Merit.  A.,  V.  xxv.  3.  C3)  To  make 
to  labour.    An  XIX.  x.:  XX.  ii.  1,  2. 

|Hj        Laborious,   accustomed  to    toil.      A„ 
Hn      XVIIL  vii.  1. 
ch 'in 

Sft        (1)  To  encourage,  advise.    D.^L,  xx. 
fatten  14.    (2)  To  rejoice  to  follow,  to  exhort 
ch'iian   one  another  to  good,  i'.c,  to  be  adristd. 
D.M.,  xx.  13 ;  xxxiii.  14.    A.,  II.  xx. 

THE  20th  RADICAL,  /j. 

M        A  ladle,  a  ladlef  nL    D.M.,  xxvi  9. 

chd 
cho 

ty1\        (1)  Do  not ;— prohibitive.    D.M„  xifl. 

wuh      3.     Ah  I.  viii.  4 :  et  aL    (2)  Not ;  — nejra- 
wu       tive,  or  the  prohibition  indirect.    A-,  XL 
iv.:  XII.  ii.:  XIV.  viii. 

£fr        A  gourd.    A.,  XVU.  vii.  4. 


p'aou 
p4ao 


THE  21st  RADICAL.  Jfc . 


/P        To  transform  ;  to  be  transformed.  Ap- 

hwa     plied  to  the  operations  of  Heaven  and 

hua      Earth,  and  of  the  sage.     D.M.,  xxiL; 

xxiii.;  xxx.  3 ;  xxxii.  1 ;  xxxiii.  6. 

;f[>        The  north,  northern.    DJ4.,  x.  2,  4. 

pih       An  II.  i. 
pei 

THE  22d  RADICAL.    £\ 

Eg        (1)  To  rectify.    A.,  XIV.  xviii.  2.    (2) 

trwang  The  name  of  a  State.    A.,  IX.  v.  1^  XI. 

k'uang  xxii. 

[W       A  case,  a  casket.    A.,  IX.  xii, 

tuh 
tu 

THE  23d  RADICAL.   "£. 
nC        nC  ^Jc »  a  common  man.    A,  IX.  xxv. 

H£       To  conceal    A^  V.  xxiv. 


neih 
ni 

¥ 

Ar*«u 
ch'ii 


+ 


Classes,  classified.    A..  XIX.  xix.  2. 


THE  24th  RADICAL,  -j-. 


Ten.    G.L.c„  vi  8.  A^  n.  iv.  1,  t,  1 4 

thih     5,  6 :  ei  ai.    Adverbially,  at  ten  times,  h/ 
ten  efforts.    D.M.,  xx.  20. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


323 


Ween 

chien 

siting 
aheng 

pic  an 
pan 


A  thousand.    G.L.c, 
20.    A^  I.  tu  et  al 


ilL  1.    D.M^xx. 


(1)  To  ascend,  go  up.  A.,  III.  vii:  et  al. 
(2)  To  grow  up,  as  grain.    A.,  XVIL 


xxi  3. 
Half,  a  half. 


D.M.,xi.2.  A.,X.vi6. 


pei 

& 

tsuh 
X&u 

& 

ch'S 
cho 


Low,  as  ground.    D.M.,  xr,  1.     m 

tff  3-t'  ne  a^>Me^  himself  to — lived  in 
— a  low,  mean  house.    An  VIII.  xxi. 
The  end,  completion.    A.,  XIX.  xii.  2. 

^f   |j|,  uprightly,  loftily.    A^  IX.  x. 
3. 


(1)  The  south,  southern.    G.L.O.,  x.  4. 

D.M.,x.  2,  8.  A^  XIII.  xxii.  1.  |$|jjjj, 
the  face  to  the  south,  the  position  of  the 
emperor,  or  of  a  prince.  A.,  VI.  i.  1 :  XV. 

iv.    (2)  jj]  |$J ,  ^  (read  shaou,  and 

not  ckaou  as  in  the  translation.)  j5g,  the 

titles  of  the  two  first  hooks  in  the  She- 
king,  Pt.  I,  A.,  XVII.  i.  (3)  A  surname. 

A.,  V.  i.  2:  XI.  t.     |^J  *jaft  a  double 

surname,  but  supposed  to  be  the  same 

man  as  the  preceding.   A.,  XIV.  vi.   tjj 

-4r,  a  duchess  of  Wei    A„  VI,  xxvi 

Extensive,  large,  extensively.  D.M„ 
xxvi  8,  4,  5,  8 :  et  al.  A.,  VI.  xxv.:  et  al 
As  a  verb,  to  enlarge.    A.,  IX.  ii 

THE  26th  RADICAL.     |>» . 

The  name  of  a  plaoe.    A*  XIV.  xiiL 

To  prognosticate.    A„  Xm.  xxii  3. 

THE  20th  RADICAL.   Jj. 

^        (i)   Lofty,  bold.     A„  XIV.  iv.    (2) 

wet      Perilous,  tottering.    D.M.,  xx.  14.    A., 
VIII.  xiii  2 :  et  at. 

j^       To  roll  up.    A.  XV.  vi2. 

keusn 

chuan 

^£       Low.  1st  tone.    A  small  plot.     DJH., 

freuen  xxvi.  9. 

chiian 

g|J       Togo  to,  approach.    A.,  XIII.  xxix.: 

tseih     XIX.  ix. 

chi 


peen 
pien 

then 
chan 


A  noble,  high  officer.    A.,  IX.  xv. 


fcing 
ch'ing 


how 
hou 


yuen 
yuan 


yuen 
yuan 


yen 


yen 

It 
li 


ch'ii 

p 

k'eu 
ch'ii 


te'on 
san 


yew 
yu 


2* 

Ar'etA 
chi 


yew 
yu 


THE  27th  RADICAL.  J"\ 

Thick.    A„  x.  vi.  7.    D.M.,  xxvi.  9: 

Metaphorically,  liberal,  generous,  in  high 
style,  substantial.  G.L.T.,  7.  D.M.,  xxvi. 
8,  4,  5,  8.    A.,  I.  ix.  1 :  XI.  x.  1,  2 :  XV. 

xiv«  JS  ^££»  to  depart  with  liberal 
presents.  D.M.,  xx.  14.  ^rj^,  D^L, 
xxvii.  6. 

A  surname.    A^  XTV.  xlvi    A^  VL 

iii.3. 

Low.  3d  tone.  Your  good,  careful,  peo- 
ple.   A.,  XVII.  xiii 

Up.  3d  tone.    To  dislike,  be  wearied 

with,  reject  D.M.,  x.  4:  et  al.  A,  VL 
xxvi.:  VII.  ii.:  et  al. 

Up.  2d  tone.  jS^  $/j,  the  appearance 
of  concealing.    G.L.C.,  vi,  2* 

(1)  Dignified,  stern.  A,  VH.  xxvii* 
XIX.  ix.;  x.  (2)  To  oppress.  A.,  XVIL 
xii.  (3)  To  keep  the  clothes  on,  from 
above  the  waist,  in  crossing  a  stream.  A^ 
XIV.  xlii.  2. 

THE  28th  RADICAL.  J^. 

To  go  away  from,  leave.  A^  XVI.  iii.s 
XVm.  i.;  ii.:  VI.  v.  1,  2. 

Up  2d  tone.    To  put  away,  dispense 

with.  D,M„  xx.  14.  A.,  HL  xvii.  1: 
etal 

One  of  three ;  forming  a  ternion.    D. 

M.,  xxii.  A,XV.v.8.  (2)  Read  also 
sin.  The  name  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 
A,,  IV.  xv.:  XI.  xvii 

THE  29th  RADICAL.  ^. 

Moreover,  further ; — continuing  a  nar- 
rative by  the  addition  of  further  partic- 
ulars. G.Ltc.,  II,  i.  A.,  III.  xxv.:  et  al 
And  so ;— a  consequence  from  what  pre- 
cedes.   A.,  IX.  vi  2 :  XIII.  ix,  3,  4, 

To  come  to,  attain  to ;  coming  to.  Dt 
M.,  iv.  1 ;  xxviii.  1  j  xxxi,  4 }  xxxiii.  2. 
A.,  V.  xi,;  xx.:  et  a/,  scppe.  Coming  to,™ 
and,  but.  D.M.,  xii  2,  4 :  xviii.  3 ;  xx. 
4 ;  xxvi.  2.  J^g  Jfcy  by  the  time  it  came 
to.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  4,  5. 

(1)  A  friend,  friends.  A.,  L  viii.3: 
IX.  xxiv.:  et  al.    Combined  with  J|Q,  D, 

M.,  XIII.  4  ;  xx.  8,  17.     A.,  I.  iv.;  vii:  tt 

Digitized  by  UOOQ IC 


324 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND    PHRASES. 


INDEX  TIL 


3R 

ts'eu 
ch'U 


al  Friendship.  A.,  Xn.  xxiii.:  X  VX  iv. 
Friendly  with,  to  make  friends  of.  A.,  V. 
xxi  v.:  XV.  ix.  (2)  Brotherly  regard. 
An  II.  xxi.  2. 
Ij?  (1)  To  be,  or  act,  contrary  to.  GX.c, 
fan  ix.  4.  D.M.,  ii.  A.,  XII.  xvi.  (2)  To 
turn  round,  on  or  to  ;  to  return.    A.,  IX. 

xiv.:  XVIU.  Tii.  4.    DM*  xiv.  5.     IjF 

ftp?  ^P'  *°  turn  roun<*  on  and  examine 
one's-self.  D.M.,  xx.  17.  Observe  An 
VII.  viii.  fit  Jfi1  name  °'  an  ancient 
stand  for  cups.  A.,  III.  xxxii.  8.  (3) 
To  repeat     A.,  VII.  xxxi.    (4)  Up.  1st 

tone,  for  jRH,  A„  IX.  xxx.  1.  (6)  j£* 
fot ,  a  inan's  name.  A.,  VI.  xiii. 
To  take,  to  get.  DM*  xx.  4.  A„  V. 
ii.  Obs.  V.vi.:  VI.  xxviii.:  elal  .^JJfc, 
what  application  can  it  hare  ?  A.,  III.  ii. 
ffi  IRf"~»  assuming  the  appearance  of 
virtue.    AM  XII.  xx.  6. 

Up.  3d  tone.    To  marry  a  wife.    A., 
VII.  xxx.  8. 

A  father's  younger  brother.  In  enume- 
rating brothers,  not  the  oldest  nor  the 
youngest.  Used  in  surnames  and  desig- 
nations. An  XIV.  xx.  2  — XIX.  xxiii.; 
xxiv.: — XIV.  xiv.  1  ;  xix. — V.  xxii.: 
VII.  xiv.  2:  XVI.  xii.:  -XVIII.  ix.  3. 
—XIV.  ix.  XVH.  viii.  1,  2.-:  XVIU. 
xi.  bis* 

fi&        To  receive.    D.M.,  xvii.  4,  5 ,  rviii.  8. 

show    A.,  X.  xi.  2 :  et  aL    To  acquiesce  in.    A., 
shou    Xl.xviii :  2.  «=to  be  intrusted  with.     A., 
XV.  xxxiiL 

THE  30th  RADICAL,   p 

The  mouth.    G.L.c,  x.  18.    A^  XVII. 

xviii.     P}  j&p .  smartnesses  of  speech. 
A.,  V.  iv.  2. 
Antiquity.    G.L.T„  4.    D.M..  xxviii.  1. 

A.,  III.  xvi.:  et  al.  "if  jg*,  the  ancients ; 
anciently,  A.,  IV.  xxi.:  XVII.  xvi.  1. 

(1)  To  tap,  strike  A„  XIV.  xlvi.  (2) 
To  inquire  about    A.,  IX.  vii. 

To  call,  summon.    A.,  VIII.  iii.:  et  al. 

Read  shaou,  $  $J.  see  $J.    >gjg*% 
a  name.    A.,  XIV.  xviii. 
These.    G .L.C..  x.  3. 


ts'eu 
ch'ii 

shnh 
shu 


P 

how 
k'ou 

* 

hoo 
ku 

M|J 

how 
k'ou 

cliaon 
chao 

K 

che 
chih 

£ 

yew 
yu 


she 
shih 

n 

sze 

szu 


? 

k'o 


The  right,  on  the  right  hand.   G.L  c„  x. 
2.    D.M.,  xvL  3.  A.,  X.  iii.  2.  Obs.  X.  vi. 


la 

ko 
ming 


h& 
ho 

ft 

Vung 


how 
hou 

$ik 
chi 

# 

Iceun 
chim 


f 

Jow 
t'ou 


(1)  An  historiographer.  A„  XV.  xxv. 
(2)  A  clerk,  a  scrivener.   A*,  V.  xvL 

(1)  Always  in  the  phrase  ^|  ffj,  the 
officers.  A*,  VIU.  it  1 :  xx.  ii-  8.  (2) 
^J  life'  a  double  surname.  A.,  XII.  iu; 
iv.;  v.  (3)  ff]  jlj£,  the  minister  of 
Crime.    A.,  VII.  xxx. 

May.  Passu*.  As  in  English,  the  sot 
may  represent  possibility,  ability,  liberty, 
or  moral  power,  so  with  the  char.  |S\  It 
is  found  continually  in  the  combination 
Pj  j/j[  -=may  (seldom,  if  ever,  can),  where 
we  can't  assign  much  distinctive  force  to 
the  lM.  Pj'lg.  w  concessive,  but  does 
not  indicate  entire  approval.  A.,  I.  it. 
1 :  U.  xxii.:  VI.  i.  2 :  et  al.  pf  ^,  how- 
ever, is  more  concessive.  A.,  V.  xlu 
VII.  xxv.  1,  2 :  et  al.  Obs.  A.,  XIV.  xxii 
6 :  XVIII.  viii.  o:  XIX.  iii. 

Each,  every  one.  A.,  IV.  viL:  V.  xxv. 
1 :  IX.  xiv.:  XI.  vii.  2 ;  xxv.  7,  8. 

(1)  Name,  names ;  to  name.  A«  IV.  t. 
2 :  VIII.  xix.:  XIII.  iii.  2,  5,  7 :  et  al  (2) 
Fame,  reputation.     D .M.,  xvii.  2 ;  xnii. 

2;  xxxi.  4.     g£;g.    A.,  IX.  ii. 

To  unite,  assemble ;  united ;  a  collection. 

D.M.,  xv.  2 ;  xxv.  3.  A.,  XUI.  viii.:  XIV. 
xvii.  2. 

(1)  The  same.  D.M„  xxviii.  3.  A., 
m.TvUetal.  Together  with.  A.,  XIV. 
xix.  As  a  verb,  to  be  together  in,  to 
share.  D.M.,  x.  14 ;  xx.  14.  (2)  Applied 
to  a  certain  imperial  audience.  A-,  XL 
xxv.  6,  12. 

(1)  Sovereign,  a  sovereign.  A*  in. 
xxi.:  XX.  i.  3.  (2)  Used  throughout  the 
G J,,  for  H?,  afterwards. 

Fortunate.  "=&  0 ,  the  first  day  cf 
the  month.    A.,  X.  vi.  11. 

A  ruler,  a  sovereign.  Passim.  jS*EF» 
Ruler  and  minister,  the  relation  between. 

tions  of  the  wife  of  the  prince  of  a  State. 

A.,  XVI.  xiv.    j^  -^p,  see  on  -jr. 

AS',  &c.    G.L.C.,  iii.  8.    See  ^ 

Niggardly,  stingy.  A^  VUI.  xi:  XX 
ii.  3. 

A  negation,  not.  G.L.T.,  7.  «sto& 
wrong.    A.  VL  xxvi. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQLC 


DfDEX  vn. 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES. 


325 


% 

too 
ru 

r* 

roo 
fU 
ZfcL 

cr 

hum 

tftO 

at 

SP 

ku 

we 
wei 

chow 
chou 


ha 
niag 


mmg 

? 

4lio 
chia 

flg 

thin 


The  name  of  a  State.   A.  VIJ.  xxx.  2. 

I.  Passim.    In  a  few  cases, =my.  Very 

rarely  plural.     Almost  always  in   the 
nominative. 
To  tell,  report,  announce  to.    A.,  I.  xv. 

8:  II.  v.  2;  XIV.  xxii.  2, 3, 4, 5.  ^^f", 
the  reporters.    A.,  XIV.  xiv.  2. 

To  inform  respectfully.    A.,  HI.  xvii. 
1 :  XII.  xxiii. 

Taste,  flavours.    A^VILxiii.   D.M„ 
ir.  2.    QAjjc.,  vii.  2. 

(1)  Catholic.   A„II.  xiv.   (2)  Explain- 
ed by  3g,  A.,  XX.  I  5.    (3)  To  assist, 

give  charity  to,  syn.  with  IS).  A„  VI.  iii. 
2.  (4)  Name  of  the  Chow  dynasty  or  of 
its  original  seat.    Sape.    HjJ  $*,  the 

duke  of  Chow,    Scepe.  JM  T±»  a  man's 
name.  A.,  XVI.  i.  6.    ^§j  jjife,  one  of  the 
Books  of  the  She-king,  XVII.  x.  1. 
PJ|  P^,  alas.    A„III.vi.l 


(1)  To  order,  direct ;  what  is  appointed, 
spoken  of  what  Heaven  appoints,— the 
empire,  our  nature,  and  generally.  G- 
L.C.,  i.  2 ;  ii.  3,  5,  1 1.  D.M.,  i.  1 ;  xiv.  4 ; 
et  al  A.,  II.  iv.  4:  VL  ii.;  viii.:  IX.  i.: 
et  al  (2)  Spoken  of  a  sovereign's  order- 
ing ;  a  commission.  A.,  VIII.  tL:  X.  iii. 
4;  xiii.4:  XIIL  xx.  1 :  XVI.  ii.  1 :  XX. 
i.  2.  (3)  Life.  3*£  tfft ,  to  devote  life. 
A.,  XIV.  xiii.  2 :  XIX.  i.  (4)  Govt,  noti- 
fications. A.,  XIV.  ix.  (5)  Messages 
between  host  and  guest.  UfiC  &T,  to 
convey  such  messages.  A.,  XIV.  xlvii. 
1 .  XVII.  xx. 

Used  for  sjw  man.  Disrespectful.  G. 
L  a,  x.  16. 

Harmony,  harmonious;  natural  ease, 

affable.  D.M.,  i.  4,  5 ;  x.;  xv.  2.  A.,  I. 
xii.  1,  2:  XIU.  xxiiu  XVI.  i.  10:  XIX. 
xxv.  4. 

Low.  3d  tone.  To  accompany  in  sing- 
ing.   A.,  VII.  xxxi. 

To  blame.    A.,  III.  xxi.  2. 


To  smile  at    A.,  XI.  xxv.  4,  8,  9. 


tsze 
tszu 

*£ 

got 
ae 

& 

tsae 
tsai 


f 

chg 
chi 

m 

t'ang 

bah 

k'u 

pi 

wei 


wet 

m 

w&n 
wen 


he 
ch'i 

t 

chke 
ch'i 


shen 
shan 


hew 
hsiu 


Ho!  Oh!    A„xx.i.  1. 


(1)    Sorrow,  sorrowful,  to  feel  sorry. 

G.L.c,  viii.  1.  D.M.,  i.  4.  AM  III.  xxvU 
et  at.  (2)  Hon.  epithet  of  a  duke  of  Loo. 
D.M.,  xx.  1.    A.,  III.  xix.:  *t  al. 

A  particle  of  exclamation,  expressing 

admiration  or  surprise.  (1)  It  is  often 
at  the  end  of  sentences.  G.L.C.,  x.  18. 
D.M.,  xxvii.  3.  A-  III.  xxii.  1:  et  al 
(2)  It  is  often  used  at  the  close  of  the 
first  clause  of  a  sentence,  the  subject  ex- 
claimed about  following.  D.M.,  x.  5: 
xxvii.  1.  A.,  III.  iv.  2 :  V.  ii.:  et  al.  (3): 
It  often  closes  an  interrogative  sentence, 

being  preceded  by  >jtif,  ^,  ^»,  and 

other  interrog.  particles,  tho'  the  -5E.  is 

itself  sometimes  more  exclamatory  than 
interrogative.  A.,  II.  x.  4 ;  xxii.:  VIII. 
xv.:  IX.  viw  et  al. 

Wise,  prudent.    D.M.,  xxvii.  7. 


(1)  Jlf  ff£,  a  kind  of  tree.  A.,  IX. 
xxx.  1.  (2)  A  designation  of  the  emperor 
Yaou.    A.,  VIII.  xx.  2. 

To  weep,  wail.  A.,  VII.  ix.  2 :  XI.  ix. 
1. 

Only.  Sape.  It  stands  at  the  beginning 

of  the  sentence  or  clause  to  which  it  be- 
longs, such  instances  as  A.,  II.  vi.;    D.M., 
xxxiii.  2,  being  only  apparent  exceptions. 
Observe.    A.,  VII.  xxviii.  2. 
Low.  2d  tone.    Yes.    A.,  IV.  xv.  1. 

(1)  To  ask,  to  ask  about,  to  investigate ; 
a  question.  Passim*  (2)  To  inquire  for, 
to  visit.  A.,  VI.  viii.:  VIII.  iv.  1.  To 
send  a  complimentary  inquiry.  A.,  X. 
xi.  1. 

To  open  out ;  to  uncover.  A^  VH.  viii.; 
VIH.  iii. 

Simply,  only.    GX.o.,  x.  13. 


(1)  To  instruct.     G.L.O.,  ix.  4.     (2) 

To  understand,  be  conversant  with.    A., 
IV.  xvi. 

Good ;  the  good : — in  both  numbers,  and 
all  persons.  Passim.  (2)  Skilful :  abili- 
ty. D.M.,  xix.  2.  A.,  V.  xvi.:  VII.  xxxi.: 
et  al.  (3)  As  a  verb,  to  consider,  or  make 
good.    G.L.c,  x.  23.    A.,  XV.  ix. 

To  smell.    A.,  X.  xviii.  2. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


826 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX  VH. 


A* 
<hsi 


sang 

* 

tang 


keuem 
hsOan 


J°y>  JojW*  to  be  joyful  D.M.,  i.  4. 
A.,  IV.  xx.:  V.  vi.;  xviii  1 :  XVI.  xiii.  5 : 
XIX.  xix. 

tig  ffi,  sighingly.    A^IX.x.liXL 

XXV.  7. 

To  mourn,  mourning;  mourning  clothes. 

D.M.,  xviii.  8.  A.,  III.  iv.  3 ;  x.:  VI.  8 : 
XVU.xxi.l,  5,  GietaL 

Up.  8d  tone.    To  lose.    G.L.c,  x.  5. 

To  lose  office,  a  throne.  A.,  III.  xxiv.: 
XIV.  xx.  1.  2.  (2)  To  let  be  lost,  to  de- 
stroy. A.,  IX.  t.  8  :  XI.  Till.:  XIII.  xt.  4. 
5. 

Pg  /&>,  how  distinguished!    QJj.c^ 

iii.4. 


chia 


Admirable. 

mend,  honour, 
iii. 


D.M^  xvii.  4. 
D.M.,  xx.  14. 


To  com- 
A^XIX. 


W|        |^|lf,alas!    A^m.Ti. 


woo 
iru 


tij&       Coarse,  rude.    A*,  XI.  xrii.  4. 

ngan 
an 

Wang 


he 
cM 


tze 

•xa 


m 


♦hut 


(1)  To  taste,    A.,  X.  xi.  f ;  xiil  1.   (S) 

Name  of  the  autumnal  sacrifice.  D.M., 
xix.  6.  (3)  Indicates  the  present  com- 
plete and  past  tenses,  being  often  joined 

With  ^ .     A^  IIL  xxiv.:  VIII.  v.i  ei  al. 

(1)  A  vessel,  a  tool.    D.M.,  xix.  3.  A* 

XV.  ix.  Metaphorically.  A.,  II.  xii:  V. 
iii.  (2)  Capacity,  calibre.  A.,  III.  xxii 
1.  (3)  To  use  according  to  capacity. 
A.,  XIII.  xxv. 

An  exclamation  of  grief ;  of  contempt. 
A^  XL  viiL:  XIX.  xii.  2:  XIII.  xx.  4. 

Severe,  dignified.    G.L.o.,  vi.  8. 


THE  31st  RADICAL,  Q. 

Four.    Sape.    Four  things.    A.,  VH. 

xxiv.s  IX.  iv.    pD  H3,  the  four  parts 

of  the  State.  G.L.c,  ix.  8.  [Jlj  ^J, 
the  barbarians  on  the  four  sides  of  the 
empire.  G.L.o.,  x.  14.  (/LJ  ^,  the 
four  limbs.  D.M.,  xxiv.  A.,  XVIII.  vii. 
^  |^,  A^  XVIII.  ix.  3. 

(1)  As  a  preposition.  Because  of,  tak- 
ing occasion  from,  D.M.,  xvii.  8.  A., 
XX.  ii.  2.  (2)  As  a  verb.  To  follow, 
succeed  to.  A.,  II.  xxiii  2 1  XI.  xxv.  4. 
To  rely  on.    A.,  I.  xiii. 

The  name  of  Conf.  favourite  disciple. 
Saj».    ffi|jjJ,A.,VI.ii.:XI.vi 


k'w&n 
k*uen 


[3J 

koo 
ku 


poo 
pu 


yli 


kuo 


Voo 
t'u 


± 

Voo 
t*u 

It 

kwei 
kuei 


tsae 
tsai 


keun 
Chun 

tso 


(1)  Distressed,  reduced  to  straits.    D. 
M„xx.9.    A^  XX.il.    ygg,ow 

come  with  wine.  A.,  IX.  xv.  (2)  Sw- 
pidity  and  the  feeling  of  it.  DJYL,  is. 
16.    A.,XVI.ix. 

(1)  Firm,  strong.    A^,  I.  viit:  XVLl 

8.  ?  XV.  1. 3.  (2)  Obstinate,  obstinacy. 
A.,  IX.  iv.:  XIV.  xxxiv.  2.  (3)  Mesa, 
niggardly.  A.,  VII.  xxxv.  (4)  Firmly. 
D.M.,  xx.  18.  (5)  Certainly,  indeed.  D. 
M.,  xxxii.  3.  A.,  IX.  vi  2 :  XIV.  xxx?iu. 
l:XV.i.3;xli.3. 

A  gardener.    A.,  XIII.  iv,  1. 


The  name  of  an  officer.  A„  XIV.  xx. 
9. 

A  State.  Pattim.  tjl  gj,  the  Mid- 
die  kingdom.  D.M.,  xxvii  4:et  aL  Only 
in  this  phrase  is  the  term  used  for  the 

empire.  =p  ^  ^  ff^,  one  of  the 
largest  States,  equipping  1,000  chariots. 
A.,  I.  v.:  et  aL  jj^fc  ||§,  to  administer  a 
Bute.    A.,  IV.  xiii. 

(1)  To  think,  imagine.  A^  VH.  xiii 
(2)  A  map.    A.,  EX.  viii. 

THE  82d  RADICAL.    -J^. 

(1)  The  ground,  ground,  earth.    DJL, 

xxvl.9.    A^V.ix.1.    (2)^Cjt,wa- 

ter  and  land.  D.M.,  xxx.  1.  (3)  Com* 
fort.    A.,  IV.  xi. 

A  precious  stone,  differently  shaped, 

used  as  a  badge  of  authority.  A-,  X.  v. 
1:XI.V. 

(1)  The  earth,  the  ground.    DJhL,  xx. 

8.  A„  IX.  xviii.:  XIX.  xxii.  2.  (2)  Any 
particular  country.  A.,  XIV.  xxxix.  2. 
(8)  Throughout  the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean, 
it  occurs  constantly  as  the  correlative  of 

^,  heaven,  the  phrase  ^  Jj||  being 

now  the  component  parts,  and  now  the 
great  powers,  of  the  universe. 

(1)  To  be  in.  to  consist  in,  depend  on, 

the  where  and  wherein  following.  Passim. 
(2)  To  be  present.  G.L.C.,  vii  2.  A, 
XI.  xxi.    (3)  To  be  in  life.    A.,  L  xi: 

IV.  xix.  "Jf  is  followed  not  unfrequently 

by  H,  t|4 ,  6b ,  with  words  intervening. 
Observe  A.,  XIX.  xxii.  2 :  XX.  i  5. 

Level  An  equally  adjusted  state  of 
society  A„  XVI.  i  10.  As  a  verb ;  ts 
adjust,  keep  in  order.    D.M.,  ix. 

To  sit.    A.,  X.  vii  2 ;  ix.  1 1  etal 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Index  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


327 


Jfl  Broad  and  level.    Satisfied.    A.,  VII. 

tan  xxxvi. 

JJfc  An  earthen  stand  for  cups.    Jjj?  it, 

teea  A-,  HI.  xxii.  3. 
fien 

j)£  In  the  name  of  a  place.      jj£  J)^j,  A., 

cfrmg  VI.  xii:  XVII.  iv. 
Cheng 


r* 

yu 

it 


Boundaries,  territory.    A.,  XVI.  i.  4. 

To  hold,  keep  hold  of.  D.M.,  vi.;  xiii. 
2  :  et  al  A.,  VI.  viii.5  VII.  xi :  et  al  4Jj 
jjjfl,  to  maintain  the  rules  of  propriety. 
A_,  VII.  xvii.  Sfk  ^J,  to  practise  char- 
iotering.  A.,  IX  ii.  2.  ^£lj|v  to  man- 
age business.  AM  XIII.  xix.  4/j.  R9  ^, 
to  grasp  the  govt,  of  a  State.  A-,  XVI.  ii. 
j^         To  nourish.    D.M.,  xvii.  3. 

pei 

^j*         (1)  The  hall  or  principal  apartment. 

Vang  ascended  to  by  steps.  A.,  III.  ii.:  X.  iv. 
4  :  XI.  xiv.  2.  (2)  jj£  ^,  exuberant  5 
an  imposing  manner.    A.,  XIX.  xvi. 

Jig.        Firm,  hard.   A.,  IX.  x.  1 ;  XVH.  vii.  3. 

kren 

xihien 

^t        To  be  able,  to  endure.    A.,  VI.  ix. 

&<m 

Jfe        The  name  of  an  ancient  emperor.    A., 

yaou    VIII.  xix.:  XX.  i.  1.  Coupled  with  Shun, 
yao      G.L.,  ix.  4 :  et  al 

£B         To  revenge,  recompense,  return.  D.M., 

paou    x.  3 ;  xx.  13.    A.,  XIV.  xxxvi.  1,  2, 3. 

pao 

^  A  road,  the  way.  D.M.,xL2.  A.  XVH. 
i.  1 ;  xiv. 


too 


To  fall,  be  fallen.    A.,  XIX.  xxii.  2. 


cA< 


uy 


chiii 


sih 
sae 

hxcae 
huai 


fang 


(1)  To  shut  up,  as  a  screen.    A.,  III. 

xxii.  3.    (2)  An  unemployed  condition. 
D.M.,  x.  5. 

To  be  ruined.    A.,  XVH.  xxi.  2. 


A  man's  name.    A,  XIV.  xlvi. 


THE  S8D  RADICAL,   j^. 

-fc  (1)  A  scholar.  A.,  IV.  ix.:  VIII.  vii.: 
tze  et  al.  (2)  An  officer.  D.M.,  xiii.  3 ;  xx. 
ihia    13,  14.   A.,  XIII.  xx.  1  j  xxviii.:  et  al  In 


many   cases   these   two   meanings   are 
united.    A.,   XII.  xx:   XV.  viii.:  et  al 

(3)  A  gilly.    ^t  |@  ^  i,  a  groom. 

(4)  JtjJifi'  Criminal  judge.  A.,  XVIII. 
ii.:  XIX.  xix. 

Jft        Vigorous,  in  manhood.    A.,  XVI.  vii. 

chwang 

chuang 

>j£       Once.    D.M.,  xviil.  2.   *|£  4g,  one 
yih       and  alK  G.L.T ,  6. 

y» 

^p        Longevity,  long-lived.    D.M..  xvii.  2. 

show    A.,  VI.  xxi. 

shou 

THE  85th  RADICAL.  $C. 


hea 
•hsia 


#etA 
hsi 

4t 

teas 
wai 

Suh 
SU 

to 


yeh 


(1)  Name  of  an  ancient  dynasty.  D.M», 
xxviii.  5.  A.,  II.  xxiii.  2:  et  al.  Ill 
JS^f ,  the  founder  of  the  Hea  dynasty. 
A.,  III.  xxi.  1.  (2)  Great.  ^  J|\  a 
name  of  China.  A.,  III.  t.  (3)  Used  in 
a  man's  name.    A.,  XVIII.  xl.    (4)  -^• 

§1 ,  the  designation  of  one  of  Conf.  dis- 
ciples.   A.,  I.  vii.:  et  al,  tape. 

THE  36th  RADICAL,   ty 
The  evening.    A.,  IV.  vii. 


(1)  Without,  beyond,  external.  G.L.o., 
vi.  2*  D.M.,  xiv.  1;  xxv.  3.  (2)  As  a 
verb.    To  make  secondary.    G.L.c,  x.  8. 

Early  ?==from  day  to  day.  D.M., 
kxixA6» 

Many,  much.  A.,  IT.  xviii.  2  \  IV.  xii.: 
VII.  xxvii.:  et  al  ?  XIX.  xxi  v.  1,  where 
:#  =  jjfjf,  only;  and  D.M..  xxvi.  9,  where 
it=a  little. 

(1)  Night.    A.,  IX.  xvi.:  XV.  xxx.    D. 

M.,  xxix.  6.    (2)  7^  ^j£,  a  man's  desig- 
nation.   A.,  XVIII.  xi. 
To  dream.    A.,  VII.  v. 


mung 
meng 


ta 

* 

t'ae 
t'ai 


THE  37th  RADICAL.   ^. 
Great ;  greatly.    Passim.    ~fc;^r>  see 

Up.  3d  tone,  with  aspirate.    Excessive. 
A.,  VI.  i.3.    Used  for  ^.    D.M.,  xviii. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


328 


CHINESE   CHABACTERS   AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX    YH. 


tun 
tHen 


Vae 
t<ai 


f0Q 

fa 


foo 
fa 


Heaven.  (1)  The  material  heaven,  or 
firmament.  D.MMxii.3;  xxvi.  5:  et  al 
A.,  XIX.  xxv.  3.  (2)  More  commonly,  the 
char,  stands  for  the  supreme,  governing 
Power,  the  author  of  man's  nature,  and 
orderer  of  his  lot.  G.L.c,  i.  2.  D.M.,  i. 
1 ;  xiv.  3 ;  xvii.  8,  4 ;  xx.  7. 18  ;  xxxii.  I, 

2,  3 :  xxxiii,  6.  (  jf^  ^).  A.,  II.  iv.  4 : 
III.  xiii.  2 ;  xxiv.:  V.  xii.  3 :  VI.  xxvb  VII. 
xxii.:  VIII.  xix.  1:  IX.  T.3;  vi.  2;  xi.  2:  XI. 
viii.:  XII.  ▼.  3  :  XIV  xxxvh\2:  XVI.  viU. 
1,  2 :  XVII.  xix.  3 :  XX.  i.  1.  (3)  In  the 
Doctrine  of  the  Mean  (not  in  the  Ana- 
lects), we  find  the  phrase  ^  £jjj  of 
very  frequent  occurrence,  sometimes  de- 
noting the  material  heavens  and  earth, 
but  more  frequently  as  a  dualixation  of 
nature,  producing,  transforming,  complet- 
ing, i.  5 ;  xii.  2,  4 :  xxii :  et  al.  (4)  ^ 
-7%  a  designation  of  the  emperor.  GX. 
T.,  6.  D.M.,  xvii.  1 :  et  al  A.,  IIL  iL: 
XVI.  ii.    (5)  ;£"~|v  see  "]^. 

(1)  H^3E'  one  °*  tne  ancestors  of  the 
Chow  dyn.  D.M.,  xviii.  2,  3.  (2)  ^ 
5£,  title  of  a  high  officer.  A.,  IX.  vi. 
1»  3.  (3)  -fc  £jjj,  grand  Music-master. 
A.,  III.  xxiii.:  VIII.  xv.:  XVIII.  ix.  (4) 
■^  tp,  the  title  of  a  Book  of  the  Shoc- 
king, G.L.C.,  ii.  2. 

(1)  An  individual  man.  [JC  ^»  * 
common  man.  A.,  IX.  xxv.:  XIV.  xviii.  3. 
With  §fl,=a  fellow.  A.,XIX.vii.:  XVII. 

xv.  Jt  $§£,  husband  and  wife.  D.M., 
xii.  2,  4  ;  xx.  8.  A.,  XIV.  xviii.  3.  (2) 
-4r  d^,  a  general  name,  applicable  to 
all  the  ministers  or  officers  at  a  court. 
D.M.,  xviii.  3.  A.,  V.  xviii.  2 :  X.  ii.  1 : 
et  al,  sape.  (3)  ^  \,  title  of  the  wife 
of  the  prince  of  a  State.  A.,  XXVI.  xiv. 
(4)  4r  -?•»  master,  my,  our,  your,  mas  • 
ter,  applied  often  to  Confucius,  but  not 
confined  to  him.  A.,  I.  x.  1, 2 :  III.  xxiv.: 
IV.  xv.  2 ;  et  a/,  tape. 

Low.  1st  tone.  (1)  An  initial  particle, 
which  may  generally  be  rendered  by 
now.  D.MM  xix.  2;  xxxii.  1.  A.,  VI. 
xxviii.  2 :  IX.  xvi.:  et  a/.,  scepe.  (2)  A 
final  particle,  with  exclamatory  force. 
D.M.,  v.;  xvi.  5.  A.,  VI.  viii.;  xxv.:  VII. 
x.  1 :  Vni.  iii.  1 :  etal^  scepe.  (3)  Neither 
at  the  begin,  nor  end  of  sentences  and 
clauses,  as  a  kind  of  demonstrative.  D. 
M.,  xxvi.  9.  A.,  XI.  ix.  3 ;  x.  3 ;  xiii.  3 ; 
xx.  2,  4 :  et  al.  (4)  After  some  verbs,  as 
a  prep.,  between  them  and  their  regimen. 
G.L.C.,  x,  16.  A.,  XVI.  i.  9 :  XVII.  ix ; 
xxi.  4. 


yaou 
yao 

thih 


Uow 
tsou 


pun 
p€n 


he 
hsi 


?6 
Vo 


f 

ch'S 


gaou 
ao 


neu 
nil 

joo 

noo 
nu 

*f 

haou 
hao 

haou 
hao 


3t  ^,  exuberant  in  foliage.  GX-O, 
ix  6.  ^  ^  #(J»  pleased-like,  A^ 
VTI.iv. 

To  lose,  to  fail  of  or  in.    G.L..C,  x.  6, 

11,  18.  D.M.,  viiL;  xiv.  5 ;  xviii.  2.  A-, 
I.  xiii.:  IV.  xxii.:  et  al^  scepe. 

(1)  To  squat  upon  the  heels.  A-,  XIV. 
xlvi.  (2)  A  name  denoting  rude  and 
barbarous  tribes,  appropriate  to  those  on 
the  East  of  China,  of  whom  there  were 
nine  tribes.  A.,  IX.  xiii.  1.  It  is  generally 
associated  with  fy.    A,  III.  v.:  XML 

xix.  D.M„  xiv.  2.  ^  H '  G-L'c"  *• 
16.  (3)  As  a  posth.  title.  An  V.  xxiL: 
et  al.  (4)  Part  of  a  name.  A-,  X VIIL 
via.  1,  4. 

To  perform,  as  music  D.M.,  xix.  5. 
To  present,  approach  (but  the  mean,  ia 
doubtful),  D.M.,  xxxiii.  4. 

To  run  away,  flee.    A.,  VI.  xii.. 

Why,  how,  what.  A.,  II.  xxi.  1.  2 :  IH. 
ii :  VII.  xviii  2 :  XI.  xiv.:  XIII.  UL  1,  3; 
v.:  XIV.  xx.  1,  2.  ^  [=j  ,  from  whom. 
A.,  XIV.  xxi 

Rapine ;  to  take  away,  carry  off.  G.L.O, 
x.  8.  A.  IX.  xxvu  XIV.  x.  3 :  XVIL 
xviii.  "jfi  p]"  ^,  cannot  be  carried 
from  his  principles.    A-,  VIII.  vi. 

Wasteful,  extravagant.  A.,  III.  iv.  3 : 
VELxxxv. 

The  south-west  corner  of  an  apartment 
A.,  IIL  xiii.  1. 

THE  38th  RADICAL,  ^£. 

"frHp»  girls, =concubinea.  A^,  XVTL 
xxv.  -hr  ifi£,  female  musicians.  A^ 
xvm.  iv. 

For  yir.  You,  both  nom.  and  obj.  A, 
II.  xvii.:  et  al 

A  slave.    A.,  XVHL  i. 


Good,  goodness,  excellence.  G  .I-.cn. 
1.    A.,  XIX.  xxiii.  2. 

Up.  3d  tone.  To  love,  like,  be  fond  ot 
Passim,  pg  ^  £  #£  the  loviaf. 
i\e.,  the  friendly,  meeting,  of  two  prince*. 
A.,Ul.ixU.^. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


index  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND  PHRASES. 


329 


joo 

J* 


yaou 
yao 


We 
chi 


We 
chi 

*& 

chke 
ahih 


(1)  As,  and  may  often  be  rendered  aa 

when,  as  if.    Passim.    We  find  ^f|J  ]j^f 

such,  80 ;  with  the  synonyms.  AfJ  ftp  and 

JfJJ  |g.  >y^5^J>  not  as,  but  sometimes 
meaning — there  is  nothing  like,  the  best 
thing  is  to.    We  have  also  &£  AjJ,  and 

*||£  ^|J,  may  be  compared  to.    (2)  If. 

In  this  sense,  it  is  often  followed  by  ^J. 

(3)  fXi  fa'  and  fa  #fr  **  on  jtf. 

(4)  After  adjectives,  it=like,  or  our 
termination  ly.  See  many  instances  in 
the  Ana.  Bk.  X.  (6)  Or.  A.,  XI.  xxv.  10. 
(6)  Obs.  #p  ^  >£ ,  A„  XIV.  xvii.  2. 

Prodigies,  inauspicious  appearances  of 
plants,  &c.    D.M.,  xxiv. 

A  wife.    D.M.,  xt.  2.    A.,  XVI.  xix. 


Up.  3d  tone.    To  give  to  to  wife.    A., 
V.i.l,2:XI.v. 


The  beginning ;  at  first ;  to  begin.  G.L. 
t.  8.  D.M.,  xxv.  2.  A.,  I.  xv.  3:  III. 
viii.  3;  xxiii.:  V.  ix.  2:  VIIL  xv.-  XIII. 
viii.;  XIX.  xii.  2. 

A  surname,  the  patronymic  of  a  family 
or  clan.    A.,  VII.  xxx.  2.      Q"  jjgfc,  a 

designation  for  the  mass  of  the  people. 
D.M.,  xx.  13,  14.  A.,  XH.  ix.  4 :  XII. 
xiv.;  xx.  1,  5. 

Majestic.  A.,  VIX  xxxvii.:  XX.  ii,  1, 
2.  To  fear ;  to  be  feared.  D.M.,  xxxiii. 
4.  A.,  I.  viii.  1.  }&%«*%.  G. 
L.C,  iii.  4.  D.M.,  xxvii.  3. 
>W  ^fc  &|y,  husband  and  wife.  D.M.,  xii. 
2,4;  xx.  12.  A„  XIV.  xviii.  8.  £g> 
^K,  a  woman.  A.,  VIII.  xx.  8. 
To  natter,  pay  court  to.    A.,  HX  xiii. 


To  be  jealous.    GX.c,  x.  14. 

To  marry,  be  married  to.    Spoken  of 
the  woman.    GX.c.,  ix.  2. 

THE  39xn  RADICAL.  «3P\ 


n. 

sing 
hsing 


m 


foo 
fu 


maou 
mao 

kea 
chia 


-¥•        (1)    A  son.    GX„c,  viii.  2;  ix.  2,8. 

Uze      D.M.,  xiii.  4 ;  xv.  2 ;  xviii.  1,  3 :  xx.  1. 

tea  A.,  III.  xv :  VI.  iv.:  et  a/M  scepe.  But  in 
soqie  instances,  it  is  as  much  child  as 
son.    (2)  A  daughter,  a  young  woman. 


k*ung 


ft 

ts'un 


heaou 
hsiao 

tin. 

mdng 
mdng 


M 

koo 
ku 


he 
chi 


GX.C,  ix.  6.    A.,  V.  i.  1,  2 :  VII.  xxx.  *. 

(a  play  on  the  term) :  XI.  v.    -tr  -?-f 

A.,  XVII. xxv.  (3)  As  a  verb,  to  treat  as 
children.  D.M.,  xx.  12,  13.  (4)  Every- 
where applied  to  Confucius,— t lie  Master. 
(5)  It  follows  surnames  and  honorary 
epithets.  (6)  It  enters  often  into  the 
designations  of  the  disciples  of  Confucius, 
and  others.    (7)  In  conversationssyou, 

Sir,  the  gentlemen.  ZU~J^£**  fe>  mJ 
disciples,  my  friends.  (6)  Chiefs,  officers. 
A.,  XIV.  xxii.  3,  4,  5.  (9)  A  title  of  no- 
bility, viscount.    A„XVHI.i.    (10)-^ 

•]S^,  descendants,  Saps.  (11)  3*"¥*. 
Patsim.  Generally,  the  superior  man, 
with  a  moral  and  intellectual  significance 
of  varying  degree.  Often=a  ruier.  Some- 
times, the  highest  style  of  man,  the  sage. 

(12)  ~fc  -jp%  the  emperor;  see  on  ^. 

j$T;8ee^-  AT"!,wA» 

/Jv^iaeo/Jv    i^;^. 

(1)  Very.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  2.  (2)  A  tur- 
name.  That  of  Confucius.  ~3\.  Hp, 
Pa$$in.  ^  ^,  A,  XIV.  jdi.;  xiii.  1. 
ft  %¥  A.,V.xiT. 

To  be  preserved,  to  be  alive,  to  con- 
tinue, to  be.  DM*,  xix.  5 ;  xxii.;  xxviii. 
5.    A.,  VIU.iv.3. 

Filial  piety,  to  be  filial.    A.,  II.  v.  1,  2 ; 

vi.:  vii.;  viii.;  xx.;  xxi.  2 ;  xxii.;  xxviii  5 : 
et  «/.,  seeps. 

(1)  The  eldest.  A.,  VII.  iii.  2.  (2)  A 
surname,  that  of  one  of  the  three  families 
of  Loo.  A.  IX  v.  2.  (jj£  |£);  XIX. 
xix.— II.  v.  1  .—XIX.  xviii.— VIII.  iv.— IX 
vi.:  V.  vii.:  XVIII.  iii.— VI.  xiii.— XIV. 
xii:;  xiii. — G.L.C,  x.  22. 

(1)  Fatherless,  an  orphan.    G.L.c.,  xi. 

A.,  VIII.  vi.  (2)  Solitary,  alone.  An 
IV.  xxv. 

The  youngest.  Used  in  designations. 
An  XVIII.  xi.  A  surname,  that  of  one  of 
the  three  families  of  Loo.  A.,  III.  i.  (3? 
J^),  et  al:  XIV.  xxxviii.:  XVL  i.  18. 
(3^):  XVIII.  iii  (^).  :fr|fc 
•^P,  A.,  II  xx.:  VI.  i.:  XI.  vi.:  XII. 
xvii.;  xviii.;  xvx.  35  -^  ^C,  A„  XL 
xxiii.:  ^JftS^,  A.,  XVm.  iv.    The 

disciple  Tsze-loo  was  a  235.  A.,  V.  xxv.: 
etal. 

(1)  A  grandson.  'T'^&t  descendants. 
GX.c,  x.  14.  D.M .,  xvii.  1 :  xviii.  2.  A*, 
XVI.  i.  8 ;  iii.  (2)  Used  in  double  sur- 
names.   An    XJJL    xxiii.^  xxiv.— XIV. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


380 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX  YIH 


xxxviii.:  XVI.  i.  13.— II.  v.  2.— HI.  xiii.: 
XIV.  xx.  2.— XIX.  xxii. 

Xw        Up.  3d  tone,  used  for  jSS.     Coniplai- 
sun      sant,  docile,  obedient.    A.,  VII.  xxxv.: 

XIV.  iv.:  et  al 
Ifc       Who?  which?    D.M.,  xxxii.  8.     A, 

#AuA     III.  xv.;  xxii.  3:  eto£,  sops.   What?     A., 
shu     IU.  i. 

«ft        To  learn;  learned;  learning.    O.L.T., 

Ke6       1.    D.M.,  xx.  9,   10,  19,  20.    A.,  I.  i.  1 ; 
hsio     vi.;  vii.;  viii.;  xiv.:  et  al*,  scepe. 

A,  surname.    A^  XVU.  xx. 


joo 
J* 


nieh 


Unlucky  omens  of  prodigious  animals, 
DM,  xxir. 


♦4* 

shou 
gan 


sung 
*±* 

7C 

wan 


THE  40th  RADICAL.         . 

To  keep,  to  maintain,    D.M.,  vii.     A., 

Vni.  xiiL  1 :  XV.  xxxii.  1,  2,  3 :  XVI.  i. 
12. 

(1)  A  condition  of  entire  tranquillity. 

GX.I,  2.  An  XVL  i.  10.  (2)  Without 
any  effort.  D.M^xx.9.  An  III.  xxxvii. 
(3)  Comfort,  at  ease.  A.,  I.  xiv.:  XVII- 
xxi.  4,  5.  (4)  To  rest  in.  A.,  II.  x.  8 : 
IV.  ii.  (5)  To  give  rest  to.  A,,  V.  xxv, 
4 :  XIV.  xiv.:  XVI.  i.  11.  (9)  An  inter- 
rogative,=how,  where.    A,,  XI.  xxv.  10. 

The  name  of  a  State.    D.M.,  xxvtii  5. 

A.,  HI.  ix.:  VI.  xiv, 

Complete.    A^  XIII.  viii. 

(1)  Honourable,  pertaining  to  one's  an- 
cestors. 2r*  JB§j' tlie  anceitra*  temple. 
D.M.,  xvii.  1:  et  al.  A.,  X.  It.etal. 
^g£,D.M„xix.3.  ^^,  kindred. 
A.,  XIH.  xx.  2.  (2)  To  follow  as  master. 
A.,  I.  xiii.  (8)  jgj  ^,  an  ancient  em- 
peror, A.,  XIV.  xliii. 

1|P        An  officer  of  government.    D.M.,  xx. 

hcan    14.    An  HI.  xxii,  2:  XIV.  xliii.  2:  XIX. 

kuan  xxiii.  3 :  XX.  i.  6. 

J[j?        Determined,  settled.    G.L.T.,  2.   D.M., 

ting     xx.  16.    A.,  XVI.  7.    To  settle.    GX.C, 

ix.  3. 
*£?        (1)  Right,  what  is  right.    D,M„  xx,  5; 

e       xxv.  3.    (2)  Reasonable,  to  be  expected. 

i  A.,  XIX.  xxi.i.  4.  (3)  As  a  verb,  to  re- 
gulate, discharge  duty  to.  GX.C,  ix*  6, 
7.    D.M.,  xv.  2 ;  xvii.  4. 

Strangers,  guests.    €|  £§*>  A*,  V.  viL 

4 :  XIV.  xx.  2. 


k«o 

ir 


A  house. 
VUI.xxi. 


A.,  XIX.  xxiii.  2.    ^*f:|f> 


«Ai* 


hal 

tsae 
tsai 


yea 

kea 
chia 


$2? 

su 


chi 

roei/i 
mi 


fu 


Aua 


(1)  An  apartment,  the  inner  rooms  of  a 
house.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  3.  A-,  IX.  xxxj 
XI.  xiv.  2 ;  xix.  So,  ^  ^,  A.,  XIX 
xxiii.  2.  (2)  A  family.  A.,  V.  vii.  3: 
VI.  xii.,  XIIL  viii.  So  ^  5j£,  DJL, 
xv,  2.     A.  ^jj ,  the  ducal  house.    A., 

XVI.  iiL  (3)  ^  ^,  a  house.  A^ 
VIII.  xxi. 

Injury,  to  injure.  G.L.O.,  x.  22.  D.3t* 
xxx.  3.    A,  U.  xvu  XV.  viii 

(1)  Governor  or  commandant,  of  a  town. 

A.,  V.  vii.  8:  VI,  iii.  3;  vii.-  xii.:  XI. 
xxi  v.:  XIII.  xvii.  (2)  Head  minister  to  a 

chief.  A.,  XIIL  ii.  (8)  ^^,  a  pre- 
mier. A.,  XIV.  xliii.  (4)  The  sunuuue 
of  one  of  Conf.  disciples.    An  V.  ix-  f 

Feasting.    A.,  XVL  t. 

(I)  The  family.  G.L.T.,  4,  5:  c„  vut. 

1.  3:ix.  1,  8,  5.   ^  ^,  the  household; 

o.,  ix.  6.  ^  ^,  D.M ,  xv.  2.  (2)  A 
family,  the  name  for  the  possessions  of 
the  chiefs  in  a  State.  G.L^.,  x.  22,  23L 
D.M.,  ix.;  xx.  11,  12,  15;  xxiv.  A.,  UL 
ii.:  V.  vii.  3:  XII.  U^  xx.  3,  6,  6:  XVI.  L 
10 :  XVIL  xviii:  XIX.  xxv.  4.    (8)  ^ 

|fi£,  apartments,    A^  XIX.  xxiii.  2. 

(1)  To  bear,  admit.  A.,  X.  iv.  1.  (2) 
Forbearance,  to  forbear.  Q.L.,  x.  14. 
D.M.,  xxxi.  1.  A.,  XIX.  iii.  To  com- 
mand forbearance.  D.M.,  xxvii.  7.  (3) 
Deportment.  A„  VIII.  iv.  3 :  X  vi.  1. 
23t  TO,  a  placid  appearance.    A^  X»v. 

2.  (4)  iffe  2§t,  easy,  unconstrained. 
(5)  A  name.    A.,  V.  i.  2 :  XL  v. 

(1)  To  stop  over  night.  A*  XTV.  x£? 
XVIII.  vii.  3.  To  keep  over  night.  An 
X.  viii.  8 :  XII.  xii.  2.  (2)  Asleep  and 
perching.    A-,  VII,  xxri. 

To  commit  to  one's  charge.  A-»  VOL 
vi. 

Concentrative.    D.AL*  zxxk  L 

Kich,  riches.  G.L.C.,  vL4.  D M *  xvfi. 
1 ;  xviii*  2.  A.,  I.  xv.  1  ?etof.  Metaph^ 
A.,  XII.  xxii.  5.  To  enrich.  A^  XHL 
ix.3,4:XX.i.4.  Often  joined  with  Jfr. 

Cold,  wintry.    An  IX.  xxv*. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


I5DEX   VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES* 


331 


cAd 
ch«a 


Jnca 
kua 


ning 


(1)  To  examine,  to  f tody;  studious.  D. 

M.,  ri.;  xxxi.  1.    A.,  II.  x.  3:  et  al    To 

look  after.    G.L.C,  X.  22.     (2)   To  be 
displayed.    D.M.,  xii.  3,  4. 

(1)  Few,  to  make  few.    G.L.C,  x.  19. 

D.M,,  xxix.  1.     A„  II.  xviii.  2 :  VHL  v.: 

et  al    (2)  fi£  /J\  ~jfr,  a  designation  of 

the  wife  of  the  prince  of  a  State.    A., 
XVI.  xiv. 

After  uiL  with  intervening  words,  than, 

so  and  so  it  is  better  to.    GX.c,  x.  22. 
A.,  III.  iv.  3 ',  xiii,  1 :  et  al. 

To  sleep,  be  in  bed.   A„  V.  ix.:  X.  viii. 


Win 
chin 

JhA 


Z$£.  sleeping 


(2)  Fruit.   A., 
GX.c,  x.  14. 


fcwan 
k*uan 


shin 
sli£n 


9;  xvi.  1:  XV.  xxx.  j| 
dress.    A.,  X.  vi  6, 

(1)  Full.  A„VIII.v. 
IX.  xx.  1.    (8)  Really. 

Generous,  magnanimous.     D.M.,  x.  8 ; 

xxxi.  1.    A.,  III.  xxvi:  Xyil.  tu  XX. 
i.9. 

To  examine  accurately,  discriminate. 

D.M.,  xx.  19.    A^  XX.il. 


&£       A  name.    A.,  XIV.  xxxviii 


UaoH 
liao 


paou 
pao 


shay 
she 


Precious ;  precious  things ;  a  jewel.    G. 

L.c,  x.  12,  13.  D.M.,  xxvi.  9.  A,,  XVIL 
i.2. 


THE  41st  RADICAL. 


*■ 


2 


Archery.  D.M„  xiv.  5.  A„  IIL  vii.; 
xvuIX.ii  2:XIV.ri.  Read  shih.  A., 
VII.  xxvi,  to  shoot  with  an  arrow  and 
string. 

To  dislike,  be  disliked.  D.M„  xvi  4 ; 
xxix.  6. 


(1)  Shall,  will,  to  be  going  to,  to  be  about 
tsZang  to.   D.M.,  xxiv.   A.,  III.  xxiv.:  XVI.  i.  1, 
chiang2,  ^ietai    (2)  ^  fg?,  a  sage,  or  there- 
abouts.   A.,  IX.  vi.  2.     (8)  ^  f^J,  to 
act  as  internuncius.    A-,  XIV.  xlvii  1: 
XVII.  xx. 

^       (1)  Alone,  unassisted.     A.,  XOh  r. 
eJitten  ^>)  Assuming,  presuming.     H  Jap,  D. 

M.,  xxviii.  1. 
(1)  Honourable  in  dignity.    D.M.,  xvil 

2 ;  xviii.  2.    (2)  To  honour.    D.M.,  xix. 

5;  xx.  5,  8,  18,  14:  et  al    A.,  XIX.  iii: 

XX.  ii.  1,  2. 

>    To  reply  to,  in  reply.    Spoken  of  an 

inferior  answering  a  superior.  Passim. 
The  only  case  where  we  can  conceive  of 
an  equality  between  the  parties  is  A., 
XVm.  vi  8. 


tsun 


senou 
hsiao 


shaou 
shao 


9 

shaou 
shao 

fa 

shang 


it 

yew 
yu 


tsew 
chiu 


P 

she 
shih 

R 

ch'ih 

& 

ne 
ni 

P- 

yin 


keu 
chu 


THE  42d  RADICAL.  ;\\. 

Small,  smallness ;  in  small  matters,  D, 
M.,  xiL  2 ;  xxx.  8.  A.,  I.  xii.  1 :  II.  xxiu 
et  at    Sape.    /Jn^,  »ee  on  ^.    yj> 

-4-,  my  little  children,  my  disciples.  A., 

V.  xxU  Vm.  iii.:  XI.  xvi.  2 :  XVII.  ix. 
We,  the  disciples.  A.,  XVIL  xix.  2. 
The  disciples.    A.,  XIX.  xii.    I,  a  little 

child.  A„XX.i.8.  /J>^/J>^;. 
designations  of  the  wife  of  the  prince  of 
a  State.    A.,  XVI.  xiv. 

(1)  A  little.    A.,  XIII.  viii.    (2)  A^ 

|J[|j,  the  assistant  music-muster.     A^ 

XVIH.  ix.  5.  (3)  ty  jig,  A  name.  A^ 
XVIIL  xviii.  1,  3. 

Up.  8d  tone.  Young,  youth.  A^  V. 
xxv.  4:  IX.  vi  8;  ix.:  XVI.  vii. 

(1)  To  esteem.    A.,  XVI.  vi.:  XVII. 

xxiii.  To  add  to,  esteem  above.  A.,  IV, 
vi.  1.  To  place  over.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  1. 
(2)  Still,  likewise.  G.L.C.,  x.  14,  (3) 
Pray,  let  it  be.    D.M.,  xxxiii.  8. 

THE  43d  RADICAL,  -fc. 

A.,  XIV.  xxxvii.  2.  Occasions  for  blame. 
A.,  IV.  vi. 

(1)  To  approach  to.  A.,  I.  xiv.:  XVT. 
i.  6.  (2)  To'  complete,  for  the  good  of. 
A^XH-xix. 

THE  44th  RADICAL  p. 

Corpse-like.    A.,  X.  xvi  1. 


A  cubit.    A^VIII.vi 

ty  fa*  Confucius.  D.M„  ii.  1  j  xxx. 
i.    A.,  XIX.  xxii;  xxiii.;  xxiv.;  xxv. 

(1)  To  correct.  -^  ^J1,  good  cor- 
rector, designation  of  the  chief  minister 
ofTs*oo.  A„V.  xviii.  1.  (2)  ^fr|9%  an 
ancient  minister.  A.,  XII.  xxii.  6.  (3) 
gjjj  :&ry  an  ancient  minister,  grand- 
teacher.    GX.C,  x.  4. 

(1)  To  dwell  in,  to  reside.  GX.c„  vi. 
2.  D.M.,  xxvi.  9.  A.,  U.  i:  et  al*,  seeps. 
With  a  reference  to  privacy.  A.,  X.  vi. 
7 ;  vii.  2 ;  xvi.  1 :  XI.  xxv.  3 :  XIII.  viii.: 
et  al  (2)  Metaphorically,  applied  to 
situations,  virtues.  D.M.,  x.  3,  4 ;  xxvii 
7.    A.,  HI.  xxvi:  et  al,  sops.    (3)  To 

~2U 


Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


m 


CHQHS8B  CHARACTERS  AND    PHRASES. 


OTBEX  ITU. 


keep.    A.,  V.  xviii    (4)  To  sit  down. 
A.,  XVU.  vui.  2.    (6)  Comfort  A^  X 1 V. 

iil.    Jg  ^g.  the  economy  of  a  family. 

A.,  XIU.  viii 

J§T       A  house.    GJLc  vi  4.    D.M.,  xxxiii 

wu 

J^       Up.  2d  tone.    To  put  away.     A^  XX. 

J"?     ii.  1.    ^  4J,  to  keep  in  the  breath. 

A.,  X.  ir.  4. 

J^        Often,  generally.    A^  V.  iv.  2:  XI. 

fcu       xviii.  1,  2. 
lii 


(1)  To  tread  on.  A^  VIU.  iii:  X.iv. 2. 
/e  (2)  The  name  of  the  emperor  Tang.  An 
li         n.i.8. 

THE  46th  RADICAL.  ^. 

||[        (1)  A  hill,  mountain,  mountains.    O. 

than    L.c,  x.  4.  D.M.,  xxvi  9.  A.,  V.  xvii:  VI. 

iv.;  xxi.:  X.  xviii.  2.    A  mound,  A.,  IX. 

xviii.  (2)  ||c  |J_|.  the  name  of  a  moun- 
tain. A^IILvi  (8)^|i(,  *  double 
surname.    A-,  XVU.  v. 

ffe       Lofty,  great   GX.c,  i  8 ;  x.  5.   D.M., 

tseun    xxvii  2. 

tsun 

^       To  exalt;  to  honour  and  obey.    D3L, 
*#*«n0  xxvii  6.    A.,  XII.  x.;  xxi.  1,  8. 
m        The  fall  of  a  mountain.  Metaph.,  down- 
pang    falls,    to    be  ruined.    A.,  XVL  L   12: 
peug   XVU.  xxi.  2. 

"§£        ^k~f*>  ^  offioer  ojrTs<e-  •*•»  V.xviii 

fc'uy    2. 

ts'ui 

iS^       The  name  of  a  mountain.    D.M.,  xxvi 

yoA      9. 
yo 

%k      $k$k  ¥' how m*ieitic!  A» vm- 

tret      xviii.;  xix.  1,  2. 

JSt        Miit'  Praipitous.    GX.C.,  x.  4. 

Jfen 

THE  47th  RADICAL.  ifif 

If]        A  stream,  streams.    A^  VL  iv.:  IX. 

dS**'    JH    M'  flowin«  8tre"ms'  river" 
currents.    D.M.,  xxx.  8. 

^|J        2,500  families.    ^j«|  Jl ,  a  neighbour- 

cW    hood.    A.,  XV.  v.  2. 
chou. 

THE  48th  RADICAL.  X* 

J2        A  mechanic,  an  artizan.    A.,  XV.  xix. 

hai9    ^f  JL>  the  ▼*"ous  artisans.    D.BL, 
xx.  12, 13, 14*    Au,  XIX.  viL  1. 


too 


*t 


woo 
wu 


a 

be 
chi 


(1)  The  left,  on  the  left  GX.c.,  x.  X 
D.M.,  xvi  3.  A^  XIV.  xviii.  2.  JJ§T 
yt  -^-,  to  move  the  left  arm  ox  the 
right.  A„X.iii2.  (2)  ;£:  f£,adou- 
ble  surname.  A.,  V.  xxiv.  Some  make 
~kf  alone  to  be  the  surname. 

line,  artful,  specious.    A*  L  iiL:  HL 
freaou  viii  1 :  V.  xxiv^  XV.  xxvi:  XVIL  xviL 
chiao 
/ft        (1)  A  wizard,  a  witch.    A^  HE  xxiL 

(2)  ^  fil,  a  double  surname.  A.,  VIL 
xxx.  2,  8. 

THE  49th  RADICAL.   £J. 

Self.  Himself ,  yourself ,&  plural.  Pm- 
sim.  Observe  jggg^,  XIV. xlit  2.  Used 
for  ^,  GX.C,  vi  2. 

(1)  To  stop,  end.    D3L,xi  2;  xxvi.  10. 

A.,  XVII.  xxii.:  XVUI.  v.  1.    In  the 

phrase  >ft^&pl,  not  to  be  able  to  stop, 

what  is  the  result  of  necessity.  A-,  XL  viL 
2,3.    (2)  To  retire  from,  resign.     A-,V. 

xviii.    (3)  g^-^andg,^* 

d^,  it  is  all  over.  A.,  V.  xxvi:  IX. 
viii:  XV.  xii  (4)  jffij^*  °ften  foBow- 
ed  by  3fe,  and  stop,  and  nothing  more. 
D.M.,  xxv.  3.  A.,  VL  v.:  VUI.  xx.  3: 
XU.  vi:  et  aL  (6)  •&  &'  Bl  & 
and  p^  dl^,  all  serve  to  give  emphasis 

to  the  statement  or  assertion  which  has 
preceded.  A.,  I.  xiv^  xv.  8 :  H.  xvi.  1 : 
IIL  viii.  8 :  et  aL,  sapt.  (6)  Indicates  the 
past,  or  present  complete  tense.  A., 
VUI.  x.:  XVUI.  vii  5. 

0)  A  lane,  A,  VI.  ix.     (2)  g|  ^fc. 

heang  the  name  of  a  village.    A-,  IX.  ii 
hsiang 

IB        Yielding.    A.,  IX.  xxiii 


THE  60th  RADICAL,  fjj. 

A  market,  the  market-place.     A,  X 
viii  5 :  XIV.  xxxviii  1. 


#. 


rfiT 

she 
shih 

poo 
pu 

9 

hsi 


noo 
nu 


(1)  Linen-cloth.    A.,  X.  vii  L     (2) 
To  be  displayed.    D  JL,  xx.  2. 

(1)  Few,  rarely.    A*,  V.  xxii :  XVL  ii 
(2)  To  stop,  pause.    A.,  XL  xxv.  7. 

Children.    DJL,xv.2, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


jlwex  m 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


833 


fa       Silk.    A.,XVHxL 

M, 

^       (1)  God.    A,  XX.  i  3.    J^  ^,  see 

J       _£.    (2)  An  emperor.    *jjj»  J#£,  The 

Canon  of  the  emperor,  name  of  a  portion 
of  the  Shoo-king.    G.L.  c,  i  3. 

«l        A  commander,  general    A^  IX.  xxv. 


To  lead  on.  A^  XH.  xvii  G X.C,  ix.  4. 


■huai 

fit 

suh 

8Q 

jjjjj        (1)  The  multitude,  the  people.   GX.c, 
tze       x.  5.    (2)  A  host,  properly  of  2,500  men. 

8za   (SB  ftfr  A-» XL  xxv- 4  w  A  teacher- 

A.,  H.  xi.:  VTL  xxU  XV.  xxxv.:  XIX. 
xxfi.  2.    (4)  J^  £jjj,  the  chief  criminal 

judge.    A.,  XVIII.  it:  XIX  xix.    (5) 

JC  6$  H»  dfc  Gifr  ^  *■»*  m,,8ic 

master.  A-,IH.xxxiii:Vin.xv.:XVIII. 
ix.  1.    /^  £jfi,  the  assistant  do.    A., 

XVm.  ix.  5.  gjjj  alone.  A.,  XV.  xU. 
1,  2.  (6)  The  grand-teacher,  one  of  the 
highest  officers.  G.L.c,  x.  4.  (7)  The 
name  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples.  A.,  XI. 
xt.:  XVII.  iii. 

Jfi        A  mat.    A,  X.  ix.;  xiii:  XV.  xli  L 

$eih 

*hsi 

3j£       A  sash.    A„V.vii.4. 

toe 

tai 

S  Constant,  regular.    G.L.c,  Ix.    A^ 

dfang  XIX.  xxii  2. 

■ft  A  curtain,  curtain-shaped.    A.,  X.  vi. 

vet  9. 

«  To  curtain,  overspread.    D.M.,  xxz.  2. 

taou 

tao 

THE  51st  RADICAL.  «=p. 

•^       (1)  To  seek  for,  with  a  view  to.    A.» 

kan     n.  xviii.  1.     (2)  A  shield.    ^  $£, 
shields  and  8pears,=*=  war.    An  XVI.  i.  13. 
(3)  VV  -^i  an  uncle  of  the  tyrant  Chow, 
A.,  XVIII.  1.    (4)  The  name  of  a  band- 
master of  Loo.    A.,  XVIII.  ix.  2. 
3t        (1)  A  state  of  perfect  tranquillity ;  to 
p'ing    bring  to,  or  be  brought  to,  such  a  state. 
G.L.T,  5,  c,  x.  1.    D.M.,  xxxiii.  6.    (2) 
Level.      A.,  IX.  xviii.     2I£  /fc,  the 
■      whole  life.  A.,  XIV.  xiii.  2.  (3)  An.  hon. 
epitheU    A.,  V.  xvi. 


4|i       A  year,  years,  the  year.    D.M.,  xviiL 

riSen     3.    A.,  L  xi.:  et  aL,  sape. 

nien 

4t       Luck,  fortunate,  fortunately.     D.M., 

hing     xiv.  4.    A.,  VI.  ii;  xvii:  VII.  xxx.  3: 
hsing  XI.  vi 


yew 
yu 


he 
chi 


THE  62d  RADICAL.  £. 
Toung.    A^  XIV.  xlvi.:  XVHL  vil  &. 

(1)  What  is  small,=mildly.  A.,  IV. 
xviii  (2)  Influence,  what  may  be  ex- 
pected from.    A.,Xm.xv.l,&4,5.    (8) 

JFflF  i&,  perhaps,  peradventure.    D3L, 
xxix.  6. 

THE  63d  RADICAL.  J*"\ 

f|J       To  arrange  in  order.    D.M„  xix.  4. 

tea 
hsu 
Jjf^       A  treasury.    G.L.c,  21,     A,  XI,  xiii 

foo       1. 
fu 

Jg|  The  court  of  a  house.    A^  HL  i:  XVL 

ring  xii.  2,  3. 

jg£  Measures.    D.M„  xxviii  2.     $£]§£. 

too  the  laws.    A.,  XX.  L  6. 

tu 


froo 
k'u 


To  surmise,  conjecture.    D.M.,  xvi  4. 
An  arsenal.    G.L.c,  x.  21. 

fff        (1)  Numerous.    A.,  XHI.  ix.  2,  3.  J& 

**°°     Jj^,  the  numerous,  the  masses  of  (=the 
common)  people.  D.M.,  xx.  12, 18 ;  xxix. 

near  to.    D.M.,  xxix.  6.    A.,  XI.  xviii.  1. 
Uf        (1)  Ordinary.    D M n  xiv.  4.    (2)  Use, 

*"9    course.    In  the  phrase—  X^\  )^.  D3f„ 
ii.  1,  2 ;  iii.;  vii^  viii;  ix.;  xi  8 ;  xxvii. 
6.    A.,  VL  xxvii 
|t£       (1)  The  hon.  name  of  one  of  the  chiesf 
tang  of  the  Ke  family.  A.,  X.  xi.  2 :  XIV.  xx.: 
II.  xx.:  VI.  vii.:  XI.  vi.:  XII.  xvii;  xviii.; 
xix.    (2)  Jt£  ^,  title  of  a  book  in  the 
Shoo-king.    GX.c,  i  1 ;  ii.  2 ;  ix.  2 ;  x. 
10. 
JHa        A  measure  for  grain,  containing  about 
yu      120  English  pints.    A.,  VI.  iii  1* 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


834 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX   VIT. 


He* 
lien 


tow 
sou 


hew 
chin 


f*eaou 
miao 


f" 


vang 
kuang 


M 

t'ing 


keen 
chien 


k 

shih 


•m 


hung 

tecum, 
tiao 


Modesty,  reserve.    A*  XVII,  xvi.  2. 


To  be  concealed    A„  II.  x.  4. 


A  stable.    A*  X.  xii. 

A  temple.  In  the  phrases— jjjj 
D.M,  xix.  8.  *£  J|j,  D.M„  xvii.  1 , 
xviii.  2 ;  xix.  4,  6.  A.,  XI.  xxv.  6,  11 : 
XIV.  xx.  2:  XIX.  xxiii.  3.  -fcjijft,  A^ 
m.  xt.:  X.  xir. 

(1)  To  stop  short.  D.M.,  xi.  2.  A„ 
VI.  x.  (2)  To  fail,  to  cause  to  fail,  put 
aside.  DJt,  xx.  16.  A.,  XIV.  xxxviu- 
2 :  XV.  xxii.:  XVm,  vii.  5.  )g  gj, 
fallen  States.  (3)  To  be  out  of  office. 
A.,  V.  i.  2 :  XVm.  vui.  4  s  XX.  i.  6. 

Broad,  expanded.  Spoken  of  the  earth. 
D.M.,  xxvi.  9.  Of  the  mind.  GX.c,  vi. 
4.    D M^  xxrii.  6. 

THE  64th  RADICAL.  J_. 

SBflS' the  court  of  *  sovereign.  A., 
X.  i.  2. 

To  set  up.    D.M.,  xxix,  3. 

THE  55th  RADICAL,  -ft. 
To  play  at  chess.    A.,  XVII.  xxii. 

THE  56tH  RADICAL.  -^ 

To  shoot  with  an  arrow  having  a  string 
attached  to  it.    A^  VIL  xxvi. 

The  cross  bar  in  front  of  a  carriage  |  to 
bow  forward  to  that  bar.    A.,  X.  xvi.  3. 

To  commit  parricide  or  regicide.  A., 
Vf  xviii,  %;  XIf  xxiii,  6  ;  XIV.  xxii.  1,  2. 

THE  57th  RADICAL,  ^. 

yty  jEj ,  the  designation  of  one  of  Conf. 
disciples.    A.,  VI.  i.  2,  3 ;  iv^  et  oL 

To  condole  with  mourners,  A*  X.  vi. 
10, 


i$  (1)  Not.  D.M.,  Tilt;  xi.  1,  2:  eiel 
fuh  A^  IIL  vi.:  V.  viii.  3 :  VL  xxv.:  XII.  xv. 
fu        (2)  j$J  ^  a  man's  name.    A„  XVII. 

T. 

^        Large  in  mind.    A.,  VIIL  vii.    To  en- 
hwanq  large.    A^  XV.  xxviik  XEX.  ii. 
huang 

J^        (1)  A  younger  brother.    J^^.eMer 
it       and  younger  brothers,  a  brother ;  see  on 

ti    }L •  JL  $J» the wune-  DM-» **• ^ 

13.  A,  XI.  iv.  (2)  Used  for  j%,  Ac 
duty  of  a  younger  brother.  An  I.  ii.  1 : 
XIV.  xlvi  GX.C,  ix.  1 ;  x.  1.  (3)  j-jfj 
-j-%=a  youth.  A.,  I.  vij  H.  viii.  A 
disciple,  disciples.  A.,  VI.  ii j  VTL  TTYiii_* 
VUI.  iiij  IX.  ii.  2 :  XI.  vi.  1. 

rj£        Stringed  instruments ;  prop,  the  strings 

listen  °{auch-  A^XVILivU.  The  same  as  |£. 

§r§        (1)  £J§,  and  -^  gj|,  the  designation 

chang  of  one  of  Conf.,  disciples.    A^,  IV.  xvftt 

1 ;  xxiii.  1 :  V.  xviii.:  XIX.  xv.;  xvL:  et  at, 

tape.    (2)   -^  EE,  a  man's  name.    A, 

XVin.  viu.  1. 

jjjjj        Energy,  forcefulness.    D3£,  x.  1,  2, 3, 

k*eang  4,  5.  Strong,  energetic  D .M.,  xx.  21 ; 
ch'iangxxxi.  1. 

5§J        ^^,nsing  strenuous  effort.  DJC, 

kectng  xx.  9. 

chiang 

More,  still  more.    A^  IX.  x.  1. 


me 
mi 


THE  59th  RADICAL.  <£. 

^£       To  appear,  be  manifested,    GJLc,  vi. 

hing     2.    D.M.,  xxiii.  1. 

hsing 

JP        Elegant,  accomplished.    GX.C,  x.  14. 

VW        * 

J3Z       To  lose  their  leaves.    A^  TX  xxvii. 

teaou 
tiao 

^       ^$2'  equally  blended.   A.,VLxvl 

pin 

^       An  ancient  worthy,  called  ^  ]|K  by 

pk&ng  Conf.    A.,  VH.L 

p'eng 

THE  60th  RADICAL.  ^  . 

|j£       That,  that  man,=he,  him.  A^XTV.x. 
P?      2 :  XVI.  i.  6.  G.L.C.,  Hi.  4 ;  x.  4,  22.  ^ 
igf,  there.    D,M ^  xxix.  6, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


EIDEX  VIT. 


CHINESE   CHAHACTEBS  AND  PHRASES. 


33.5 


wumg 


chtng 
cheng 

# 

toe 
tai 

huh 

iu 

*44 


iiOW 

kou 


hug 
thing 

f 

tih 
te 


(1)  To  go,  going.  A„  IX.  xviii.:  XVIL 
L;  v.:  VII.  1,  2:  XVIII.  ii.  1.  D.M.,  xx. 
14.  [jjj  ££,  and  onwards.  A„  III.  x. 
(2)  The  gone,  the  past.  A.,  I.  xv.  8 :  HI. 
xxi.  2 :  VII.  xxviii.  2 :  XVIU.  v. 

3jf4\j[<>  punitive  military  expeditions. 
A.,  XVI.  ii. 

(1)  To  wait,  wait  for.  A.,  IX.  xii.: 
XIII.  iii.  1.  D3L,  xxvii.  4.  (2)  To  treat. 
A.,  XVIII.  iii. 

To  imitate,  follow  as  a  model.    D.M., 

XXXi  1. 

(1)  As  a  noun.  That  which  is  after, 
the  back.  Sape.  '%£*{£>  A„  IX.  x.  1. 
Preceded  by  ^.  A.,  XIV.  xxii.  4.  5 : 
et  ai  A  successor.  A.,  XIV.  xt.  (2) 
As  an  adjective.    D.M.,  xi.  1 :  et  al.  4£ 

£E^,A.,IX.v.8.    ^£,A.,IX. 

xxii.    (3)  As  an  adverb.    Afterwards. 

Sape.    Often  follows  $/J  and  f^jj.    (4) 

As  a  verb.  To  come  after,  fall  behind, 
make  an  after  consideration.  A.,  III. 
viii.  2 :  VI.  xiii.;  xx.:  XI.  xxii.;  xxv.  8 1 
XII.  xxi.  3 :  XV.  v.  3 ;  xxvii.:  XVIII.  vii. 
1. 

A  short,  cross,  path.    A.,  VI.  viii. 


too 
t*u 

se 
hsi 

$t 

tshrng 


(1)  To  attain  to,  to  be  found.    G.L.t„ 

2.  D.M.,  xx.  18,  20.  (2)  To  get,  with 
an  objective  following.  Scepe.  Without 
an  objective,  getting,  anything  as  gain 
to  be  got.  A.,  XVI.  vii.;  x.  1 :  XIX.  i. 
(3)  The  auxiliary  can  often  followed  by 

jfn.  Scepe,  (4)  Followed  by  an  adjec- 
tive, and  often  in  the  question  <Jjg  ^ft 

can  be*=can  be  considered.    A.,  IV. 

i.:  V.  x.;  xviii.  1, 2 :  et  al.  (5)  ^^^ 
could  not  but.  A.,  VII.  ii.  3.  (6)  fi 
^,  to  be  himself.    D.M.,  xix.  2. 

(1)  On  foot.  A.,  XI.  vii.  2.  (2)  Vainly, 

without  cause.  A.,  XVIL  v.  3.  (3)  Dis- 
ciple, associate.  An  XL  xvi.  2 :  XVIII. 
vi.  3,  4. 

To  move  towards,    A„  VII.  iii.:  XH. 

x.1. 

To  follow ;  to  act  according  to.  GX.C, 
ix.  4 ;  x.  2.  D.M.,  xxviii.  5 ;  xxix.  2.  A., 
II.  iv.  6  ;  xiii.:  et  al,  tape.  Ifte  jjrfr,  to 
be  engaged  in  govt.  Generally,  in  a 
subordinate  capacity, — A.,  VI.  vi.:  XIII. 
xiii.;  xx.  4 :  XVIII.  v.  1.  But  not  subor- 
dinate in— A.,  XX.  ii.  1.    ^  ]fe,  to  be 


tsung 
tsung 


ntng 


yu 
ya 

« 

M 

fu 


Jow 
fou 


seun 
sun 


we 
wei 


cheng 


ch* 


teeaou 
hsiao 


ft 

sin 
shin 


* 

peih 
Pi 


engaged  in  affairs,  to  act.  A.,  VIII.  v. 
1 :  XVIL  i.  2. 

Up.  3d  tone.  Proceeding  on.  A.,  III. 
xxiii. 

Low.  3d  tone.    To  be  in  close  attend- 

anceon.    Always  ^  ^  or  ^  ^ 

;$&.  A„  HI.  xxiv^  V.  vi.:  XI.  ii.  1 :  ii.: 
XV.  i  2. 

tf£  S&,  naturally  and  easily.  D.M., 
xx.  18. 

To  drive  a  carriage.  A^  II.  v.  2 :  IX. 
ii.  2. 

(1)  To  make  good.  A.,  I.  xiii.  (2)  To 
report  a  commission.  A*,  X.  iii.  4.  (3) 
To  return  to.  A.,  X.  iv.  5 :  XII.  i.  1.  (4) 
To  repeat.    A.,  XI.  v. 

Again.  A.,  VX  vii.:  VII.  v.  As  a  verb. 
A^  VII.  viU. 

by  orderly  method. 
^"/Tethered.    A.,  X.  v.  1. 

(1)  That  which  is  minute,  minute.  D. 
M.,  i.  8 ;  xvi.  5  ;  xxvi.  6 ;  xxxiii.  1.  Re- 
duced. A.,  XVI.  iii.  (2)  A  negative  par- 
ticle, if  not.    A.,  XIV.  xxviii.  2.     (8) 

Ijjjffc  «■¥•,  the  viscount  of  the  State  Wei. 

A.,  XVm.  i.     (4)   ^  Z^,  a  double 

surname.    A.,  V.  xxiii. — XIV.  xxxiv. 

(1)  To  be  evidenced.    D.M.,  xxvi.  2,  3. 

(2)  To  attest,  be  attested.  DJtfn  xxviii. 
5 ;  xxix.  2,  8.    A.,  III.  ix. 

Virtue,  virtuous.      Passim.     Energy, 

influence.    D.M.,  xvi.  1.    A.,  XII.  xix. 

(1)  To  remove.  A.,  III.  ii.  (2)  Per- 
vading, with  reference  to  a  law  of  tithe. 
A-,  XII.  ix.  2,  8. 

(1)  To  seek.  D.M.,  xix.  4.  (2)  To 
copy  another's  and  pretend  that  it  is 
one's  own ;  to  pry  out.  A.,  XVIL  xxiv.  2. 

THE  61st  RADICAL.  j(£. 

The  heart,  the  mind  -.—denotes  the  men- 
tal constitution  generally.  Is  not  found 
in  the  Chung  Yung.  G.L.T.,  4,'  5 :  c.  vi. 
4 ;  vii.  1,  2,  8 ;  ix.  2 ;  x.  14.  A.,  II.  iv.  6 : 
VI.  v.:  XTV.  xiii.  1 :  XVIL  xxii.:  XX.  L 
8,7. 

Must,  used  as  an  auxiliary;  often=a 

will  certainly,  would  certainly.  Some- 
times also  with  no  verb  following.  Pas- 
sim. )jf\  -Hi,  what  must, ■» what  is  ne- 
cessary is Sometimes  conditionally. 

QltJC.t  iv.  1.  A,  IIL  vii:  VI.  vii.;  xxviii.: 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


336 


CHINESE  CHARACTRRS  AND  PHRASSa 


INDEX   TIL 


jm 
jen 


VII  x.  8;  XIII.  Hi.  2;  xxi    -Q;^,no 

arbitrary  predeterminations.    A.,  IX.  iv. 

To  bear,  forbear.  A.,  IIL  i:  XV.  xxvi 


^£       To  be  wrong,  in  error.    GJUc,  ix.  8. 


chih 


chi 

wang 

4* 


The  will,  aim.    G.L.c„  iv.  1.    D3L, 
xix.  2 ;  xxxiii.  2.    A.,  L  xi.:  e*  a/.,  xqx. 

/fe  it'  the  (fete1™1*!  scholar.    A^ 
XV.  viii. 

""[.  dread,  caution.    D.M.,  ii  2. 


Often  in  combination  with  ig. 
x.  18.    D^L,xiii3jXx.  14. 


fun 
fen 

dfi 
chih 


To  forget,  be  forgotten.  A.,  VTI.  xviii 

2:  XII.  xxi.  8:  XIV.  xiii.  2:  XIX.  v. 
G.L.C.  iii.  4,  5. 

(1)   Self-devotion,  generous  sincerity. 

G.L.c, 
A.,  iv.  xv. 
2:  V.  xxvii:  «t  al  (2)  Faithful,  loyal- 
A.,  I.  hs  viii.  2:  n.  xx:  IIL  xix.:  V. 
xviii  1 :  XH.  xxiii:  XIV.  viu^  XV.  v.  2: 
XVI.  x. 

Anger,  to  be  angry.    A.,  XH.  xxi.  8 : 
XVL  x.:  XVII.  xvi  2.    GX.c,  vii  1. 

To  dislike.    A*  IX.  xxvL  2. 


neem 
nien 

hwuh 
^U 

ft 

US 
tso 


noo 
nu 


ezu 


e 

i 

keik 
chi 


To  think  of,  keep  in  mind.   AnV.xxii 

IX.  x.   (2)  In  names.  Q%£>  K*'Xjy. 
xvii.    $*  fifa  A.  XVIH.  xi. 
To  be  ashamed,  modest.  A*  XIV.  xxi. 


Anger,  to  show  anger.    A^  VL  ii    D. 
M.,  i4 ;  xxxiii.  4. 

(1)  To  think,  to  think  of ;  thought, 

thoughts,  thinking.  D.M.,  xx.  7, 18, 19, 20. 
A.,  U.  iL;  xv.:  IV.  xvii^  tt  al^  sotpe.    (2) 

Affinal  particle.    D.M^xvi.4.    (8)  jfi 

Jg^,  a  disciple  of  Conf.    A„  VI.  iii  8. 

1#  \&  #B'  pleased-like.    A^  X.  iv. 
5:XJLIixxviii 

The  distressed,  distress.    A«  VI.  iii  2. 


ft 

sing 
hsing 


yuan 


kuai 

* 

hang 
*beng 

& 
& 

$koo 
shu 

>|* 

seiih 
*hsio 

Jft 

cA's 
chih 


setm 
bsiin 

hwuji 
'huf 


«e<A 
hsi 

kung 


yu 


hwan 
huan 


The  nature  (of  roan).    GJUc,x.l&  0. 

M.,  L  1 ;  xxi.;  xxii;  xxv.  8 :  xxvii  6.  A, 
V.  xii.:  XVII.  ii 

(1)  To  murmur  against,  be  murmured 

against.  Resentment,  in  thought,  word, 
or  deed.  D.AL,  xiv.  3 ;  xx.  13.  A,  IV. 
xii.:  V.  xxii.:  tt  aL,  say^e*  (2)  Wins 
provokes  resentment,  injury.  JL,  XIV. 
xxx  vi.  13. 

Extraordinary  things.   A*,  VTL  xx.  D. 

M.,  xi  1. 

(1)  Constantly ;  constancy.  GX.c^x. 
19.  A.,  VII.  xxv.  2,  3 :  XIII.  xxii  1,  2. 
(2)  $[|&  an  officer  of  Ts*e,  A^  XIV. 
xxii.  2. 

To  be  afraid  of,  to  be  in  danger  of.  A, 
V.  xiii.:  VHI.  xvii.:  XVI.  i.  18 :  XIX.  iv. 
Jg<  fg,  GX.C,  vii  1.    DJkL,i2. 

The  principle  of  reciprocity,  making  our 
own  feelings  the  rule  for  our  dealing  with 
others.  A,  I V.  xv.  2 :  XV.  xxiii  GXx, 
ix.  4.    D.M.,  xiii.  3. 

To  commiserate,  treat  compassionately. 
G.L.C.,  x.  1. 

Shame,  a  sense  of  shame,  what  is  shame- 
ful, to  be  ashamed  of.  D.M.,  xx.  10.  A, 
L  xiii.:  II.  iii.  1,  2 :  IV.  ix.;  xxii:  V.  xiv.; 
xxiv.:  VIII.  xiii  3:  IX.  xxvi.  1:  ym. 
xx.:  XIV.  i;  xxix.  1. 

Reverently  carerui  GX,c^  IH.  4.  4£ 

km  "h$f,  simplc-and-sincere-like.     A, 

X.il. 

To  regret,  to  repent,  have  occasion  for 

repentance.  DJ&,  xi.  8.  A,  II.  xviii 
2:  VII.x.3. 

(1)  To  breathe.    A^  X.  iv.  4.     (2)  To 

stop,  cease.    D.M.,  xx.  2.;  xxvi.  1,  2. 


To  revere,  be  reverential,  sedate,  reve- 
rence. DM.y  xxxiii  5.  A-,  L,  xiii:  V. 
xv.;  xxiv.:  VTI.  xxxvik  VIH.  ii:  XIL  v. 
4 :  XIII.  xix.:  XVI.  x.  =  too  modest.  A, 
XIX.  xxv.  1.  ^g,  he  inade himself 
reverent    A.,  XV.  iv. 

Contrary  to  right,  contradictory,   t» 

collide.    G.L.c.,  x.  10.    D-M^  xxix.  3; 
xxx.  3. 

Reaching  far.    D.M.,  xxiv.  8,  4,  6,  & 


To  be  grieved,  anxious,  about.  A*  L 
xvi.:  III.  xxiv.:  IV.  xiv.:  XII.  v.  4  ;  xviiL: 
XIV.  xxxii :  XVL  i  10:  XVIL  xv.  2,1 

^M»G^c.,vii.l.    ^f^diatwsi 
and  dUficulty.    D.M.,  xiv.  2. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  vn. 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


337 


ffc 


A  man's  name.    A.,  XVII.  xx. 

P* 

pei 

¥}fe       Unable  to  explain  one's-self.     A.,  VII. 

fti        vii 

if^B        Sincerity,  the  real  state  of  a  case.     G. 

t£mg  I*c,iv.    A.,  XIII.  iv.  3 :  XIX.  xix. 
ch'ing 

^fe        (l)Tobe  deceived,  deluded,  delusion. 

hw6      D  M.,  xx.  13.    A.,  XII.  x.  1,  2 ;  xxi.  1,  3 : 
<huo    XIV.  xxxviii    (2)  To  doubt,  have  mis- 
givings.   D.M.,  xxix.  3,  4.    A.,  II.  iv.  3 : 
VII.  xxviii.:  IX.  xxviii.:  XI.  xxi:  XIV. 

XXX. 

Jjgp       J^^ala*!     A^  IX.  xx.:  XII.  viii. 

seih       2. 
hsi 

A  particle,  generally  initial,  but  some- 
times tit  a  clause.  Sometimes  it  can 
hardly  be  translated.  G.L.c ,  iii.  1 ;  x.  1. 
A.,  II.  xxi*  2.  Often *it=<wi/y,  especially 
when  medial.  GX.C,  x  12.  D.M., 
Xviii  1 ;  xxxiii  6.  A.,  IV.  iii.:  VII.  x.  I*' 
XIX.  xii  2. 

$$&,  simple.    A.,  VIIL  xvi 

Favours.  A.,  IV.  xi.  Kind,  benefi- 
cent ;  kindness.  A.,  V.  xv^  XIV.  x.  1 : 
XVI.  vL:  XX.  ii.  1,  2. 

(1)  Wickedness,  what  is  bad.     G.L.c., 

viiL  1,  2.  D.M.,  vi  A.,  IV.  iv.:  V.  xxii.: 
et  oL  (2)  Bad,  disagreeable,  spoiled. 
G.L.c.,  vi  1.  A,  IV.  ix^  VIIL  xxi.:  X. 
viii.2. 

To  dislike,  to  hate.  G.L.c,  vi.  1 ;  viii. 
1 ;  x.  2,  8,  13,  14,  16.   D.M,  &  A.,  scepe. 

Up.  1st  tone.    How.    A^  IV.  v.  2. 


frung 


Awuy 
*hui 
2& 

9* 
wu 


SLA 

woo 
wu 


woo 
wu 

If 

to 


Veen 
ch4en 


Indolent, 
via.  1. 
Fault,  error. 


A„IX.xix.    Rude.    GX.C, 


A^XVLvL 


Z 


To  be  superior  to. 
xv.  2. 


A^V.  viii  1:  XL 


tifr       l&liir&J'  pleased-like.    A., 


X.  v.  8. 


w 


The  thoughts.    GX.t.,  4,  5 :  c,  vi.  1,  4. 
W9  no  foregone  conclusions.    A., 


yu 


Ignorant,  stupid ;  stupidity.  A„  II.  ix.: 
V.  XX4  XL  xvii.  1 :  XVIL  iiL;  viii.  3; 
xvi.2.    D-M-,iv.  1;  xii  2;  xx.  21;  xxviii 


gm 
ai 


wdn 
wen 


To  love.  G.L.c,  viii.  1 ;  x.  15.  D.M., 
xix.  5.  A.,  I.  v.;  vi:  III.  xvii,  2  :5XII.  x. 
2  ;  xxii  1 :  XIV.  viii:  XVII.  iv.  8.  Love. 
A.,  XVII.  xxi.  6. 

To  be  angrily  discomposed,  dissatisfac- 
tion.   A.,  I.  i  3 :  V.  xviii.  1 :  XV.  i  3. 


Ashamed.    D.M.,  xxxiii.  3. 


tewei 
k'uei 


»oo 
su 

$ 

shin 
shen 


To  slander,  slanderous  statements.  A., 
XII.  vi:  XIV.  xxxviii.  1. 

To  be  careful  about,  cautious,  cauti- 
ously. Sometimes  followed  by  the  pre- 
positions 5£  and  ^.  G.L.C,  vi  1,  2  j 
x.  4,  6.  D.M.,  i.  2,  3";  xx.  19.  A.,  I.  ix.; 
xivu  n.  xviu.  2 :  VII.  xii:  VIU.  ik  XIX. 
xxv.  2. 

Attentive,  caref  ui    A.,  VIIL  xvi 


kty  tiS,  cautiously  reverent.    GX.C, 
iii  4. 

Kindness,  to  be  kind.     GX.C,  iii  8; 
ix.  1.    A.,  II;  xx. 

Shrewdness.    A.,  XV.  xvi 


Passions,  lusts.    A.,  V.  v. 


*^^g»  entirely  sincere.  DM.,xiiL4, 


Cherished  evil.    A.,  XIL  xxi.  1, 3. 


To  show  excessive  grief.  A.,  XI.  ix.  1, 
2,3. 

To  be  heedless,  disrespectful.  A.,  VIIL 
iv.  3 :  XX.  ii.  2.  Without  urgency.  A*, 
XX.  ii.  3. 

To  deliberate  carefully.  GX.t.,  2.  A., 
XV.  xi  Be  anxious  about.  A.,  XII. 
xxv.  What  men  are  anxious  about  A., 
X  VIIL  viii.  3. 

To  be  hated,  disliked.    A^V.iv.2. 


To  feel  sorrow  or  anxiety ;  to  be  anxi- 
ous about ;  sorrow,  cause  of  sorrow.  G. 
L.C,  vii.  1.  D.M.,  xviii  1.  A.,  II.  vi.: 
VI.  ix.:  VII.  iii;  xviii.  2:  IX.  xxviii: 
XII.  iv.  1,  2 ;  v.  1 :  XIV.  xxx.:  XV.  xi; 
xxxit  XVL  i.  8, 13. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


338 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASKS. 


INDEX   VIL 


fH        To  fear,  shrink  from.    A.,  I.  viii.  4 ; 

tan      IX.  xxi  v.    j^jffL  to  be  cautious.     D. 
M.f  ii.  2. 

tl    tfe£fr with  a  8lgh-  A> xvm- vL 4- 


/tin 
feu 


til 

Aan 


fteen 
hsieu 


Aira« 
*huai 


To  be  eager.  A„  VIL  viii.  |j$  »|j|. 
A^  VII.  xviii.  2. 

To  answer.    A.,  XIX.  xii. 

To  be  dissatisfied  or  displeased  with. 
D.M^xi.2.    A.,  V.  xxv.  2. 

(1)  An  example.  ^  jjf,  to  display 
elegantly  after  a  pattern.  D.M.,  xxx.  1. 
(2)  The  name  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 
A.,  XIV.  i. 

Up.  2d  tone.    Illustrious.   D.M.,  xxvii. 

4. 

(1)  The  bosom,  the  embrace.   A.,  XVII. 

xxi.  6.  (2)  To  keep  in  the  breast.  An 
XV.  vi.  2 :  XVII.  i.  2.  (3)  To  cherish, 
think  of.  A.,  IV.  xi.:  XIV.  iii.  To  re- 
gard.   D.M.,  xxxiii.  6.    (4)  To  cherish 


A.,  V.  xxv.  4.  'D.AL,  xx.  12, 
A*,  !!•  ▼.  1. 


kindly. 
13,  14. 

A  posthumous  title. 


•2!        To  fear,  be  apprehensive.    A.,  IV.  xxi.: 

keu      VII.  x.  3:  IX.  xxviii.:  XII.  ix.  1, 2 :  XTV. 

<**     xxx.    ffi  Jg,  D.M^  i.  2.    GX.O,  vii. 

1. 

^       To  be  angry.    jgj^,  GX.O,  vii.  L 

eh%e 
chin 

THE  62d  RADICAL.    j£. 

^5*        A  spear.    BJf^F'^fc'  *°  move  shields 
ho        and  spears,  to  stir  up  war.    An  XVI.  i. 

13. 
3&        Military  weapons.    D.M.,  xviii.  2.  ^JJ 

$""9    3J/ ,  to  go  to  their  weapons,  be  employed 
JUDg    to  fight.    A.,  XIII.  xxix. 
•jC*       (1)  To  complete,  perfect,  be  completed, 
thing   the  completion.    G.L.c,  ix.  1.  D.M.,  xviii. 
ch'engd:  xxv.  1,  2:  et  al     A.,  VH.  x.  3 :  VIII. 

viii  S:  et  al,  wept.  J^/j[  Jgjj\  on  to  the 
termination,  with  reference  to  a  perfor- 
mance of  music.  A.,  III.  xxiii.  KjrS., 
things  that  are  done.  A.,  III.  xxi.  2. 
mt  4J,  to  make  one's  name  good.  A., 
IV.  v.  2.  But  otherwise  in  A-,  IX.  ii. 
1.  Jrfcwts  complete  so  far.  A.,  V.  xxi. 
J^  ^,  a  complete  man.  A.,  XTV. 
xiii.  1,  2,     Jjj£  Jk%  a  grown  up  man 


9° 
wo 


kens 
chieh 

* 

hwd 
4ho 


ts*tih 
ch'i 


AiA 
chan 


A« 
4hsi 


A.,  XIV.  xlvii.  2.     Jj£  ^,  achieve*. 

D.M.,  xv.  9:et  al   (2)  An  honorary  title. 
A.,  XIV.  xxii.  1. 
(1)  I,  me,  my.     Passim,    ffl*  ^f.  no 

egotism.    A.,  IX.  iv.    (2)    -^  ;|£,  the 

designation  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples.  A, 
III.  xxi.  I:  VI.  xxiv.:  XL  ii.  2:  XVIL 
xxi.  1,  6. 

(I)  To  guard  against.    Ju,  XVI.  vii. 

To  be  careful,    jfcj^  D3L,  i.  2.    (2) 

To  notify,  warn.    A.,  XX.  ii  3. 

(1)  Some  one,  some  persons,     D3f., 

xx. 9.  A.,  II.  xxi.  1  :  XII.  xi.;  xv.;  xxii  2 : 
et  a/.,  sape.  (2)  Perhaps.  A.,  II.  xxiii 
2 :  XI.  xxv.  3 :  XIII.  xxii.  2  :  XVIL  xvi- 
1 :  XIX.  xxiii.  4. 

To  grieve  deeply.    A ,  IH.  iv.  3.     J» 

Jj£.  to  be  in  great  distress.    A^  VUL 
xxxvi. 
Disgrace.    A^  V.  L  2. 

(1)  To  fight,  fighting,  war.  A.,  VH 
xii.:  XIII.  xxx.  (2)  To  fear,  dread  |!§ 
jgjjl,  A„  IH.  xxi.  1:  |{£  lg£,  VUL  iii. 
|£|fc,X.v.l. 

To  be  in  sport.    A.,  XVIII.  iv.  4. 


foo 
4ro 


two 
*hu 


ft 


show 
shou 


An  interjection. 


,  GX.c^  in.  5. 


THE  63d  RADICAL.  ^. 
A  door.    A.,  VI.  xi.:  XVIL  xx. 

(1)  Perverse,  perverseness.    <&>  32, 

G.L.c.,ix.3>    jg$|,  A,  XVIL  xvi.  3. 

(2)  Reaching  to.    D.M.,  xii.  3. 

(1)    A  place.    A.,  ILL:  IX.  xiv.    (t) 

What,  that  which,  the  case  and  gender 
depending  on  the  rest  of  the  sentence. 

Passim.  ^jf^,  nothing,  tikffpf* 
everything;  variously  used.  Gi.c^  iu 
4;   vi.  2.    A.,   X.   vi.  8:  XVIL  xv.  S. 

Used  also  in  swearing,  =whereuL     A, 

VI.xxvi.  (8)  JjffJ^i  whereby.  Passim, 
flft  alone,*]^  J#.    A^XHLiiu6. 

THE  64th  RADICAL.  ^. 

The  hand,  hands.     GXx ,  vi.  3.    A* 

VI.  viii.:  Vni.  iii.:  IX,  xi.  3 :  XIIL  iiu  & 
The  arm.    A,  X.  iii.  2. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  VU. 


CHINESE   CHARACTEKS  AND  PHRASES. 


339 


jj*  Talents,  abilities.    A.,  VIII.  xi.;  xx.  8 : 

*»*ac  EC.  x.  3 .  XI.  vii.  2 ;  xiii.  I,  2. 
ts'ai 

^^  To  support.    A.,  XVI.  i.  6. 

£° 

^pt  (1)  To  assist,  as  at  a  sacrifice.    D.M., 

rA£n^  xvi.  8.    A.,  XII.  ii.    (2)  To  receive,— in 

chSng  order.    A.,  XIU.  xxii.  2. 

^f  To  break  off,  to  settle.    A^  XII.  xii.  1. 

did 

^1  (l)Or.    D.M.,x.2.    An  I.  x.  1.    (2) 

yih  But.    An  VU.  xxxiib  XDC.  xiL  1.   Fol- 

*l  lowed  by  ^.  A.,  XTTI.  xx.  8:  XIV. 

xxxiif.  1. 

;jrjf  Ability,  skill,  G.L.C.,  x.  14. 

he 
chih 

ijjjj}  To  oppose,  outrage.    GX.O,  x.  17. 

/uA 
fo 

^|fg  To  oppose,  put  away.    A.,  XIX.  Hi. 

chu 

|g  Todraw.    |g  ^,  to  draw  the  girdle 

/'o  across.    An  X*  xiii.  3. 

;Jg  To  point  to.  GJi^yiS.   A.,  m.  xi.: 

cie  Xxvii.2. 
chih 

j£t  4&  d&b  the  appearance  of  holding 

teeuen  firm.  D Mn  viii. 

chHkan 

^E  To  bow,  pay  one's  respects,  perform 

pat  obeisance.    A*,  DL  iiL  2:  X.  xi.  1,  2: 

pai  XVII.  i. 

ift  To  fold  the  hands  across  the  breast.  A., 

htZ9  XVIII.  vii.  2. 

JS  To  hold  up,  sustain.    D.M.,  xx.  14; 

cA'e  xxx.  3.    A-,XVLL6. 

chih 

JE  To  contain.    D.M.,  xxvi  9. 

chen 

ig  (1)  To  fire  to,  entrust,    A„  X.  v.  1 : 

t*°»  XIBf.  ▼.  1.    (2)  To  give  up. 

Bhfm  An  XIV.  xiii.  3. 


ffc       To  try.    ffi  )g§f,  to  try— i.«n  to  put 
Vam     the  hand  into— boiling  water.    A,,  XVI. 

xi.l. 
IjBfr       The  palm.    D.MnXix.6.    A^m.  xl. 

CAOftp 


To  sweep.    A.,  XIX.  xii.  1. 


JOOU 

sao 


^  (1)  To  arrange,  place.    T>M*  xxv.  8. 

uloo  A.,  XIII.  iii.  6.    (2)  To  put  by,  give 

tshi  over.    D.M.,  XX.  20. 

I^C  1^C  ^»  ^e  name  °*  a  recluse-    ^* 

fee?  XVTII.  v. 

chieh 

jj&  To  display,  publish.    D Jtf .,  vi 

ya»V 

^|  To  bow  to.    An  IIL  vii.:  VII.xxx.2j 

ytA  X.  iii.  2 ;  v.  I. 

yi 

J&  To  cover  over  j  be  concealed,     G,I*£., 

yen  vi.  2.    D.M.,  xvi.  5. 

j&  To  hold  up  the  clothes  in   crossing 

k'e  through  water.    A.,  XIV.  xiii.  2. 

ch<i 

J©  To  drag  and  hold,ttto  contemn.  D.M* 

yuen  xiv.  8. 

yuan 

^S  To  diminish,  be  injurious.  A„  IX  xxiiL 

tun  2 :  XVI.  iv.;  v. 

fljb  The  name  of  a  music-master.  A^VIU* 

che  xv^  XVffl.  ix. 
chih 

ffifc  To  remove,  put  away.    A^  X  viii.  8. 

ch* 

ch<8 

|H  Cherished  purposes.    An  XL  xxv.  7. 

cAon 

^  To  shake.  ^|^,  master  of  the  hand* 

po  drum.  An  XVIII.  ix.  4. 

To  choose.     D.M.,  vii.;  viii;  xx.  18. 
An  IV.  L:  Vn.  xxi.;  xxviL:  XX  it  2. 
tse 

j||  A  trap.    DJL,  vii. 

Awa 
hua 

^  Ahandful    D.MnXxvi.9, 

to'* 
ta'o 

^  To  strike. 

jfcwA  musical  stone. 

chi 

|||$  To  grasp  firmly.    AnVH.vi.2. 

Area 

chtt 

^f  To  receive  visitors  officially.    A^  X 

pin  iiL  1. 

@  i$  {g,  a  uyuVs  name.    A„  XVILv. 

jaou 
jao 

jgtk  To  steal,— on  some  temptation.     A* 

Jang  XIII.  xviii.  1. 

;BE  (1)  To  hold  up,  as  the  clothes.    A^  X 

38*  iv.  4.    (2)  To  unite,  —as  several  offices  in 

sh£  one  person.    A^IH.xxii.2.    (8)  To  be 
pressed,  straitened.    A,  XI.  xxv.  4. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


? 


jgjt,  to  play  on  the 
XIV.  xiii.  1. 


540 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND    PHRASES. 


INDEX   VII. 


l-ae 
kai 


hung 

m 

fang 

ching 
cheng 


Xroo 
ku 


keaou 
cliiao 


chiu 


gnou 
no 


pae 
pai 


If 


&n 


THE  60th  RADICAL.    J£. 

To  alter,  to  change.  Both  active  and 
neuter.     D.M.,  xiii.  2.    A.,  I.  viii.  4 ;  xi.: 

V.  ix.  2:  VI.  ix.;  VII.  iii.;  xxi.  (here  it 
siniph=to  avoid):  IX.  xxiii ;  xxiv.:  XI. 
xiii.  2 :  XV.  xxxi.:  XVU.  xxi.  3.  Obs. 
A.,  XIX.  xviii. 

To  assail,  a  to  reprove.    A.,  XL  xvi.  2 : 

XII.  xxi.  8.  =to  study.    A.,  II.  xvi 

(1)  To  drive,  pot,  away    GX.c.,  x.  16 : 

A.,  XV.  x.  6.  (2)  To  indulge,  give 
license  to.  A.,  XVIII.  viii.  4.  (3)  A 
name.    A.,  III.  iv.;  vi. 

Up.  2d  tone.  To  accord  with ;  having 
regard  to.    A.,  IV.  xii. 

Government ;  the  principles  of  govern- 
ment ;  a  govt,  charge.  Passim,  slaws. 
A.,  II.  ili.  1.  ^g£  Jnfr,  to  administer 
government,  as  supreme  or  subordinate. 
A.,  II.  i.;  xxi.  1 :  XH.  xix.  iffe  jj£,  to 

be  engaged  in  govt^  as  subordinate.    A., 

VI.  vi.:  XIII.  xiii.  1 ;  xx.  4 :  XVUI.  v.  1. 
Except,  perhaps,  A.,  XX.  ii.  1. 

(1)  Therefore.  Passim.  We  have  fre- 
quently -J^mC* ^th  t^6  w"116  meaning, 
but  perhaps  a  little  more  emphasis.  Obs. 
A.,  III.  ix.  where  jjgr  is  at  the  end  of  the 

clause,=because,  that's  the  cause.  (2) 
Old,  what  is  old.  A.,  H.  xi.:  XVUL  x. 
D.M,  xxvii.  6. 

To  be  earnest  and  active,  earnest  acti- 
vity.   A.,  I.  xiv.:  IV.  xxiv.  1 :  V.  xiv.: 

VII.  xix.:  XVI.  vi.:  XX.  i.  9.  Combining 
the  idea  of  intelligence.  A.,  XII.  i.  2 ;  ii. 
As  a  verb,  to  hasten,  produce  quickly. 
D.M.,  xx.  3. 

To  teach,  instruct.    G.L.c,  ix.  1,  6,  7. 

D.M.,  x.  3.  A.  II.  xx.:  VII.  xxiv.:  VIII. 
ix.  4 :  XIII.  ix.  4 ;  xxix.:  XV.  xxxviii.: 

XX.  ii.  3.    ~jt\  /Kf,  uninstructed.    A., 

XIII.  xxx.  Instruction.   D.M.,  i.  1 ;  xxi. 
To  stop,  to  save  from.    A.,  IH.  vi. 


viii.  1 


*N|,  arrogant  and  rude.    GX.c., 


(1)  Gone,  spoiled,  as  meat.  A.,  X.  viii. 
2-  (2)  t?)  Bjfci  master  °*  crime.  A., 
VII.  xxx. 

To  spoil ;  spoiled, — spoken  of  clothes. 
A.,  V.  xxv.  2 :  IX.  xxvL 

To  presume,  to  dare.  D.M.,  xiii.  4 ; 
xxviii.  4.  A.,  V.  viii.  2 :  VI.  xiii.:  et  al^ 
sctpt.   J=J  ftfr ,  how  dare  I  ?— an  expres- 


tun 

ft 

king 
ching 


soo 
shu 

ft 

s6 
so 

& 

teen 
lien 


wAn 
wen 


sion  of  humility.  A.,  VTI.  xxxiii.  1.  la 
the  1st  person,  often=our  'allow  mc/ 
A.,  XI.  xi.;  xxi.  1 :  XII.  xxi.  1 :  XIIL  xx. 

2,  8.    Obs.    A.,   XX.   i.  3.      j||  jj^, 

presumptuous.    A.,  XVII.  xxiv.  1. 

To  scatter,  disperse,  GX.c,  x.  9.  To 
be  scattered,  disorganized.  A.,  XIX  xix. 

Liberal,  generous,  great.  D.M^  xxvii. 
6 ;  xxx.  3. 

(1)  To  reverence,  to  respect ;  to  be  rever- 
ential, cherish  the  feeling  of  reverence. 
Passim.  To  be  reverenced.  D.M.,  xxxi. 
1.  In  reference  to  business.  A-,  L  v- 
VI.  i.  3 :  XHI.  xix.:  XV.  xxxvii.:  XVX  x. 

^    Vjfc>    &>    b6  nlled  with  awe  *** 
reverence.    G.L.C.,  viii.  1.    (2)   An  hon- 
orary epithet.    A.,  V1U.  iv. 
(1)  Some,  several  A.,  VII.  xvi.:  XIX 

xxiil  8.    (2)  |g  {»£,  the  determined 
time.    An  XX.  i.  1. 
Frequently.    A.,  IV.  xxvi. 


To  ingather.    Applied  to  imposts.    G. 
L.c,  x.  21.    D.M.,  xx.  14.    A.,  XI.  xvi 

THE  67th  RADICAL.  jC 

(1)  The  characters  of  the  language.  D. 

M.,  xxviii.  2,  3.    A.,  XV.  xxv.    (2)  Re- 
cords, literary  monuments.    A.,  III.  ix. 
3)  Literature,  polite  studies.    A-,  I.  vi- 
xxv.:  VII.  xxiv.;  xxxii.:  IX.  x.  2 :  XI. 


& 


w&n 


fei 


4 

tow 
tou 


ii.  2:  XII.  xv.;  xxiv.:  XVI.  i.  11.  (A) 
Accomplished,  accomplishments,  ele- 
gance. D.M ,  xxxi.  1 ;  xxxiii  1.  A.,  IH 
xiv.:  V.  xiv.:  VI.  xvi.:  XII.  viii  1,3: 
XIV.  xiii.  1 ;  xix.  2.    (5)=The  cause  oi 

truth.  A.,  IX.  v.  2,  8.  (6)  j£  j^. 
elegant  manners  and  discourses ;  elegant 
institutions.  A.,  V.  xii-:  VIII.  xix.  2. 
(7)  Used  as  the  honorary  epithet,  becom- 
ing in  effect  the  name.  D3L,  xviii.  1,  2, 
8:  et  ai.  G.L.C.,  iii.  3.  A.,  IX.  v.  2: 
XIX.  xxii.  2.— A..  XIV.  xvi.— An  V.xir. 
—A,  V.  xvii.:  XV.  xiii.— A^  V.  xviii.  2. 
— A.,  V.  xix.— A.,  XIV.  xiv.;  xix.    Used 

also  in  the  name  «4p  "a£,  A.,  V.  xviii. 
Low.  3d  tone.   To  gloss.  A.,  XIX  viii 


Accomplished.  G.L.C.,  iii.  4.  Ep  jjj{, 
A,  V.  xx.  1. 

THE  68th  RADICAL,  ip. 
A  peck.    A.,  XIIL  xx.  4. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


341 


yu 


woo 
vru 


THE  69th  RADICAL.  Jff\ 

(1)  This,  these.  Passim.  Its  antecedent 

is  often  a  clause.  (2)  Forthwith.  A., 
X.  x.  1 ;  xviii.  1 :  XIV.  xlii.  2,  and  per- 
haps some  other  places. 

To  renovate.  G.L.c.,4ii.  1.  New,  what 
is  new.  G.L.C.,  iii.  2,  3.  D.M.,  xxvii.  6. 
A.,  n.  xi j  V.  xviii.:  XVII.  xxi.  3. 

Up.  3d  tone.  |||f  j§|Jf  /fy,  plain  and 
sincere.    GX.c,  x.  14. 

THE  70th  RADICAL.  ^\ 

(1)  A  region,  regions.    D.M.,  x.  2, 3, 4. 

A„  I.  i.  2 ;  xx.  i.  3.     ^  ^T,  the  four 

quarters,=all  parts  of  the  empire,  or  of  a 
State.  D.M.,  xx.  13.  A.,  XIII.  iv.3: 
XX.  i.  6.  -Any  quarter.  A.,  XIII.  v.; 
xx.  A  settled  definite  place.  A.,  IV. 
xix.    (2)  Tablets  of  wood.    D.M.,  xx.  2. 

(3)  An  art,  the  way.    A.,  VI.  xxviii.  3. 

(4)  Right  rules.  A.,  XI.  xxv.  4.  (5) 
Square.  A.,  XI.  xxv.  5.  11.  (6)  To 
compare.  A.,  XIV.  xxi.  (7)  Then.  A., 
XVI.  vii.  (8)  Used  in  a  designation. 
A.,  XVIII.  ix.  3. 

Passim.  Its  proper  meaning  is  in,  at,  on, 
in  regard  to  place.  But  after  many 
verbs  and  adjectives  we  must  translate 
by  other  prepositions,  as  from,  to,  &c. 
After  the  possessive  ^*,  it=t*  relation 
to.  With  adjectives  it  forms  the  com- 
parative degree,  and=Man.  D.M.,  xxxiii. 
4.  A.,  XI.  xvi.  1 :  XIX.  xxv.  1.  Observe 

Ufa  3&  A-> x- xv*  i»— °n  me>  to  u 

mine. 

An  exclamation.  GX.C  iii.  8,  5.  D. 
M,  xxvi.  10. 


she 
shin 


she 
shih 


ch'e 
ch*ih 

m 

ieu 
Iii 


m 

txuh 
Uu 


(1)  To  give,  do,  use.  D.M^  xiii.  3,  4. 
A.,  II.  xxi.  2 :  XH.  ii.:  XV.xxui.  G.L.C, 
x.  1 2.  (2)  To  make  a  display  of.  A.,  V. 
xxv.  3. 

Up.  3d  tone.  To  confer  on,  so  as  to 
reach  to.  D.M.,  xxxi.  4 :  A.,  VI.  xxviii. 
1.  There  is  not  much  appreciable  differ- 
ence between  the  char,  in  this  tone  and 
the  last. 

For  3j|£,  to  treat  remissly.  A.,  XVIII. 
x. 

(1)  A  body  of  500  solidiers.    gjjj  |$J, 

Epf  Jgf,  forces.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  4 :  XIV. 
xx.  2 :  XV.  i.  1.    (2)  All,  general.  D.M., 
xix.  4.    (3)  The  name  of  a  sacrifice.  A., 
III.  vL 
The  circle  of  relatives.   A.,  XIII,  xx.  2. 


ke 
chi 


THE  71st  RADICAL.  Jq. 

(1)  A  particle  of  past  time,=have,  hav- 
ing, having  been.  D.M.,  xv.  2 ;  xxvii.  7. 
A.,  HI.  x.;  xxi.  2 :  IX.  v.  2 ;  x.  3 :  et  a/., 
some.  (2)  Used  adverbially.  That  done, 
=then,  by-and-by.   A,  XIV.  xlii.  2.   (3) 

Used  for  ^,  or  |jg,  te.    Rations.   D. 
M.,  xx.  14. 

THE  72d  RADICAL.    |J. 

(1)  The  sun.  D.M.,  xxvi.  9  ;  xxx.  2 ; 
xxxi.  4.  A.,  XIX.  xxi.;  xxiv.  (2)  A  day, 
days.  GX.C,  ii.  1.  A.,  II.  ix.:  IV.  vi.  2 : 
VII.  ix.  2 :  et  al^  xepe.  (3)  Adverbially. 
Daily,  D.M.,  xx.  14 ;  xxxiii.  1.  A.,  I.  iv. 
On  some  days.  A.,  VI.  v.  Q  £J* 
every  day.    GX.C,  ii.  1. 

What  is  pleasant,  spoken  of  food.  A., 
XVII.  xxi.  5. 

An  elder  brother.  D.M.,  xx.  8.  J^ 
^J,  brothers ;  the  younger  branches  of 
one's  relatives,  generally.  D.Mn  xx.  13. 
A.,  XI.  iv. 

(1)  Clear,  illustrious,  brilliant ;  clearly. 

G.L.T.,  1,  4:  c,  i.  2.     ML,  xx.  19,  20; 

xxiii.;  xxvi.  3,  4,  5,  8;  xxvii.  6;  xxx.  2j 

xxxiii.  6.  A.,  XVI.  x.    (2)  To  illustrate. 

G.L.T.,  1,  4 :  a,  i.  1, 3,  4.  (3)  Intelligence, 

intelligent.    D M^  xx.  21 ;  xxi.;  xxvi.  7 ; 

xxxi.  1 ;  xxxii.  3.    A.,  II.  vi.    (4)   To 

understand.   D.M.,  iv.  1 ;  xix.  6.    (5)  To 

purify,  purification;  clean.     D.M.,  xvi. 

3;  xx.  14.    A„  X.  vii.  1.    (6)  f^j    [J, 

next  day.     A.,  XV.  i.  1 ;  XVUI.  vii.  4. 

(7)  £±  HH,  as  a  double  surname.    A., 

XIV.  xiv.    In  names.    A.,  V.  xxiv.— A., 

VI.  xU. 
(1)  To  change.    An  L  ™»  XVIII.  vi. 

3,  4.    (2)  The  name  of  the  Yin  classic. 

A.t  VII.  xvi. 
Low.  3d  tone.     (1)  Easy,  easily.    A., 

VIIL  xii.:  XIII.  xv.  2;  xxv.:  XIV.  xi; 

xliv.:  XVII.  iv.  3.  Easily  preserved,  GX. 

c,  x.  5.    Ease,=calmness,  tranquillity. 

D.M.,  xiv.  4.    (3)  Minute  attention  to 

observances.    A.,  HI.  iv.  3. 
=g*        Formerly,  =gp  ^f ,  A.,  VIH.  v.:  XVI- 
teih      i.  4:  XVII.  iv.3;  vii.  2. 
hsi 
S        A  star,  stars.    A.,  Hi.  D.M.,xxvi.9. 


jih 


H 

che 
chih 

% 

kxcan 
k'uen 


ming 


yih 

yi 

e 
i 


sing 
hsmg 


dh 


The  spring, 
xix.  3. 


D.M„ 


A.,  XI.  xxv.  7. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


342 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX  -VU. 


ch'aou 
ch*ao 


# 

shin 


shih 


Uin 
chin 


(1)  Bright ;  to  he  dearly  seen ;  clearly. 
A.,  XX.  i.  8.  D.M.,  xxvi.  4 ;  xxxiii.  2. 
(2)  JJg  jgj,  the  tablets  in  the  ancestral 
temple,  ace  to  the  order  of  precedence. 
D.M.,  xix.  4.  (8)  Hon.  ep.  of  a  duke  of 
Loo.    A.,  VII.  xxx. 

(1)  This,  these.  Passim.  It  often  re- 
fumefl  a  previous  clause,  and  often  con- 
tains the  copula,*=this  is.      AjJ  4j^, 

therefore.  Also  41^  J^,  A^  V.  xxiL 
(2)  To  he,  A.,  EL  xxx.  1:  XI.  xx.:  XVI. 
i.8,  4,  7:  et  al    (8)  Right.    A.,  XV1L 

(1)  Time,  times.    A.,  XVL  vii.    D.M., 

xxx.  1.  Opportunity.  A-,  XVII.  1.  2. 
(8)  The  seasons.  D^xxx.2.  A.,  XIX. 
lit.  Seasonal  DM^  xix.  8.  A.,  X. 
viii.  2:  XVIH.  2.  (8)  Seasonably,  at 
proper  times.  D.M.,  xx.  14;  xxxi.  2. 
A„XIV.xiv.2.  J#B$,A,I.v.  (4) 
Always.  D.M^  ii.  2 ;  xxv.  8.  A.,  I.  i.  1. 
(6)  To  time,  watch.  A.,  XVIL  L  1. 
The  name  of  a  State,    A^  XIV.  xvi. 


(1)  Late.    A.,  Xin.  xiv.    (2)  A  sur- 
name.   A.,  V.  xvi. 


£      The  daytime;  adverbially.     A^  V.  ix. 
1 :  IX.  xvi. 
chou 

•0£       The  morning.    £|  P^,  styleof  agate- 

shin     keeper.    An  XIV.  xli. 
ch<6n 

f       Designation  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 
A.,  XI,  xxv.  1. 


hsi 


hea 
hsia 


shu 


Leisure.    A„  XIV.  xxxi. 


Warm  weather.    A.,  X.  vi.  8. 


An  hon.  epithet.  A.,  XII.  xi.:  XVI.  xib 
*$     XVIH.  iii,    JH^ ft» an  non.  designation. 


ching 

paou 
pao 


A.,  XIV.  xxxviii.:  XIX  xxiii.  2. 

(1)  Violence,  oppression.  GX.c,  ix.  4. 
A.,  Vm.  iv.  3 :  XX.  ii.  8,  (2)  To  attack, 
or  strike,  unarmed.    A.,  VII.  x.  3, 

Calculated  and  represented,  A,,  XX, 
i.  1, 


0 

yueh 


freuk 
ch*u 

II 

kang 
keng 

Ife 

shoo 
shu 


THE  78d  RADICAL.   £J. 

To  speak,  to  say,  saying.  Passim  Gen- 
erally,  the  nominative  is  expressed,  bat 
not  always,  and  then  FJ  =it  is  said.  D. 
M^xxvii.5;«f  aL  Sometimes  it=nj«nely- 
D.M.,  xx.8>  12;  at  oZ.  jg  Q,  mean- 
ing, for  it  says.    D.fiL,  xxvi.  10. 

(2)  Bent  A„  VIL  xv.  (2)  Shoots, 
what  is  smalL    DM*,  xxiii. 

To  change.    A-,  XIX.  xxi. 


tsdng 
tseng 

t 

t**vng 
ts'eng 


hvHty 
hui 


(1)  To  write.    A^XV.v.4.    Writing, 

writings,  hooks.  D.M.,  xxxviii.  S.  A^ 
XI.  xxiv.  8 :  XlV.xliii.  1.  (2)  The  Sboo- 
king,  or  classic  of  History.    A~,  IL  xxL 

2:  VU.  xvii.    (3)  ^  ^,  the  name  of 

a  Book.    GX.C,  x.  11. 

The  surname  of  one  of  Conf.  principal 

disciples,  and  of  his  father.  GIx,  vi. 
3.  An  I.  iv.:  et  al,  sape.  A-,  XL  xxv.  1, 
8. 

Low.  1st  tone.  A  conjnnctiont=then, 
hut.    A-,  II.  viii.:  ELI.  vi.:  XL  xxiii.  2. 

(1)  To  associate  with.  A„  XEL  xxiv. 
(2)  Interviews  of  the  princes  with  the 
emperor.    A,  XI.  xxv.  6,  12. 


THE  74th  RADICAL. 


n- 


n 

yueh 


yew 
yu 


(1)  The  moon.    D.BL,  xxvi.  9 ;  xxx,  2; 

xxxi.  4.  A.,  XIX.  xxi.;  xxiv.  (2)  A 
month,  months.  D.M.,  vii.  A-,  VL  v^ 
VII.  xiii.:  X.  vi.  11 :  XIII.  xu  XVIL  i.  2. 
Monthly,  from  month  to  month.  DJL, 
xx.  14.    A.,  XIX.  5. 

(1)  To  have,  possess.   Passim.    Follow- 
ed by  TV,=fthe  who  possesses,  they  who 

have.  But  sometimes  the  Jf:  is  omitted, 

as  in  A.,  I.  xiv.:  VIII.  iv.:  XX.  i.  1: 
et  al  In  this  sense  It  not  only  governs 
nouns,  but  is  used  as  an  auxiliary  to  verbs, 
both  active  and  passive.  (2)  The  im- 
personal substantive  verb,  there  is,  there 
was.  Passim*  In  very  many  instances, 
it  is  difficult  to  say  whether  the  character 

is  used  thus,  or  as  in  1.    ^f  J^,  and 

the  negative  jfc  J^  A=i  at  the  end  of 

sentences,  are  to  be  observed.  G.L.T.,  An 

I.U.  l:IV.vi3:<tfdL    ^ ^E|=  there 

is  no  difficulty.  A.,  IV.  xiii.:  el  aL  Bnt 
this  not  always.  A.,  VII.  ii:  et  aL  Obr 
A.,  XIX.  ii.  (3)  The  surname  of  one  of 
Conf.  disciple/.  A.,  I.  ii.  1 ;  xiU  xiii: 
XII.  ix.  1,  2.  The  name  of  another,  A* 
HI.  vi,:  VU.  xiv,:  et  aL  $<*pe. 
Digitized  by  VjOCwIC 


tndex  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


343 


yew 
ya 


p'dag 
p<3ng 

m 

fuk 
fa 


hoo 
ha 

m 

ch'in 
ch'dn 

m 

BO 


tcang 


chnou 
chao 


ch'aou 
ch*ao 


chi 


chi 


chi 


mnA 
mu 


Low.  3d  tone.  And.  A.,  II.  iv.  1 :  X. 
vi.  6. 

A  fellow- student ;  a  friend,  friends.  A., 
I.  i.  2.    JjQ  ^fe,  see  under  ^. 

(1)  To  wear.  A„  II.  xix.r  XV.  x.  4. 
Metaph.  D.M.,  viii.  Clothes.  D.M., 
xvL  3;  xx.  14.  A.,  VIII.  xxi.:  X.  vi.  2, 
llietaL    (2)  To  submit.    A.,  XIII.  iv. 

3:  XVL  i.  11,  12.  JJJfc  3|$,  to  serve. 
A.,  VIII.  xx.  4.     JJJj[  4^,  to  undergo 

the  labour.    A.,  II.  viii.    (3)    -^  JflJ, 

appy.  a  surname.  A^  XIV.  xxxviii. 
XIX.  xxiii.  2. 

How.    D.M.,xiii.4. 

The  imperial /.    A.,  XX.i.8. 

The  first  day  of  the  moon.  A.,  m.  xvi. 
1. 

To  look  towards,  admiring  and  expect- 
ing. DM .,  xxix.  5.  A.,  XIX.  ix.:  XX. 
ii.  2.  =to  compare  ones-self  to.  A.,  V. 
viii.  2. 

(1)  Morning,  in  the  morning.    A.,  IV. 

viii.:  XII.  xxi.  3.  (2)  A  name.  A.,  VI. 
xiv. 

(1)  The  court.     A^  V.  vii.  4 :  XIV. 

xxxviii.:  XIX.  xxiii.  1 .  (2)  To  be  in  court, 
appear  in  court.  A.,  X.  ii.  1 ;  vi.  i.:  XIV. 

xxii.  2.  jf^  SB,  to  retire  from  court. 
A^  X.  xJL:  XIII.  xiv.  (3)  To  hold  a 
court,  give  audience.  D.M.,  xx.  14.  A., 
XVIII.  iv.  (4)  Court,  as  an  adjective. 
A.,  X.  x.  ii.;  xiii.  3.  (5)  A  name.  A., 
XIX  xxii 

(1)  A  fixed  time.  A.,  XX.  iL  3.  (2) 
A  name.    A.,  VII.  xxx.  2,  3. 

A  round  year.    D.M.,  xviii.  3.     A., 

XVH  xxi.  1, 2.  |tt]   H,  a  round  month. 
D.M.,  vii. 
3£  H ,  a  round  year.    A.,  XUX  x. 


THE  76th  RADICAL.  7^. 

(1)  Trees.    D.M.,  xxvi.  9.    A.,  XVII. 

ix.  7 :  XIX.  xii.  2.  (2)  Wood.  A.,  V.ix. 
1.  (3)  Wooden.  A.,  III.  xxiv.  (4) 
{Simple,  plain.    A.,  XIII.  xxyii. 


we 
wei 


5fc 

rnd 
mo 


pun 
p6n 


chao 
chu 

ft 

hew 
hsiu 


Not  yet.    Passim     We  may  sometimes 

translate  by  not,  but  the  force  of  the  yet 
is  always  to  be  detected.    It  is  joined 

with  ife.  A.,  IIL  xxiv.:  VI.  xii.:  VH. 
vii.;  ix.7lX.  xxx.  2.  Its  power,  in  com- 
mon with   other   negatives,    to  attract 

^7*  to  itself,  and  make  it  precede  the 

verb  which  governs  it,  is  to  be  noted.  G. 
L.T.,  7:  c,  ix.  4.  A.,  I.  ii.  2 :  V.  v.  x.;  xiii.: 
etaL 

(1)  The  end,  the  product,  result,  in  opp. 

to  2P» tte  to0**  GX.T.,  3,  7 :  c„  x.  7. 
(2)  Small,  trivial.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  6.  A., 
XIX.  xii.  1.  (3)  In  old  age.  D.M.,  xviii. 
8.  (4)  Not,  do  not.  A.,  IX.  x.  3 ;  xxiii.: 
XIV.  xiii.  8 :  XV.  xv^  XVIL  v.  2. 

The  root ;  what  is  radical,  essential  G. 

L.T.,  3,  6,  7 :  c,  iv.;  v.;  x.  7.  DJM.,  i.  4 ; 
xxxii.  1.  A.,  I.  ii.  2 :  XIX.  xii  1.  What 
is  first  to  be  attended  to.  A.,  III.  iv.  1. 
To  be  rooted.    D.M.,  xxix.  3. 

(1)  Vermillion  colour.    A.,  XVII.  xviii. 

(2)  A  surname.    A.,  XVUl.  viii. 

Rotten.    A^V.  ix.  1. 


jjffi       To  plaster.    A.,  V.ix.  1. 


woo 

Wtt 

*fi 

fce 
ch'i 

chang 
chang 

3£ 

*huk 
shu 

tin 

M 

tung 


& 


The  name  of  a  State.  A.,  IH.  ix.  D.M., 
xxviii.  5. 

A  staff.  A^  XIV.  xlvi.:  2LVU1.  vii.  I. 
jkrfh  t£,  those  who  carried  staves.  A^ 
X.  x.  1. 

(1)  To  bind,  gird.  A.,  V.  vii.  4.  (2) 
A  bundle  of  dried  flesh.    A,  VH.  vii. 

A  surname.    A.,  IIL  iv.  1 ;  vi. 

(1)  The  east,  eastern.  A.,  XVII.  v.  8. 
To  turn  to  the  east.  A.,  X.  xiii.  3.  (  2) 
llC  Sv>  a  mountam*  A.,  XVI  i.  4, 
J^JLaplace.    A.,XTV.ix.l. 

So-and-so.    A.,  XV.  xii.  1. 


mou 


jffe       The  pine  tree.    A.,  HI.  xxi  1:  IX. 
tung     xx  vii* 

4j£       Crooked,  used  metaphorically.    A.,  IL 
wang   ix.:  XII.  xxii.  3,  4.    With  verbal  force. 

A.,  xvm.  ii 
;WJ       To  use  as  a  pillow.    A.,  VII.  xv. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


344 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND  PHRASES. 

^       A  raft.    A„V.vi 


INDEX   vn. 


jpfjf  Qualities.    D.M„  xrii.  3.    In  A.,  V. 

ts-ae  vi.,  the  meaning  is  uncertain, 
ts'ai 

SL  (1)  Determined,  decided.     A.,  VL  vi.: 


kivo 
kuo 


jrih 
pai 


XIV.  xlii.  8. 


[,  A.,  XVn.  xxiv. 


(2)  To  carry  into  effect.    A.,  XIH.  xx.  3. 

(3)  Really.    D.M.,  xx.  21. 

The  cypres*  tree.    A.,  HL  xxi.  1 :  IX. 
xxvii. 

A  cage  for  wild  beasts.    A„  XVI.  L  7. 


he& 

'hsia 

^        (1)  Gentle,  mild.    D.M„  x.  3;  xxxi.  1. 

jow      To  treat  gentlv.    D.M.,  xx.  12,  13,  14. 

jou      (2)    Weak.      D.M.,   xx.  21.     (3)  Mild, 

soft,  in  a  bad  sense.    A.,  XVI.  iv. 

j&       To  be  split;  divisions.    A„XVI.i.  12. 

seik 
hsi 

jjpty       An  axe-handle.    D.M.,  xiii.  8. 

ko 

W       ^Tf^»  the  name  of  a  place.    A.,  XV. 

lew      xni.:  XVIU.  ii.:  viii.  1,  3. 

liu 

12§        S5  iS  %i'  one  who  keep8  roo§tin^ 
st        or  hanging,  about.    A.,  XIV.  xxxiv.  1. 
hsi 

Jfi        {pre  IS,  the  appearance  of  being  fright- 

leuh     ened.    A.,  III.  xxi.  1. 
Ii 

Jj^JF        To  enter  into  altercation.    A.,  VIII.  t. 

keaou 

chiao 

J&L       Name  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples.    A., 

ch'ae    XI.  xvii._l. 
ch'ai 

^        (1)    ?  To  investigate.     G.L.T.,    4,   5. 

kih      (2)  To  come  to,  approach.    D.M.,  xvi. 
ko       4.    (3)  To  become  correct.    A.,  II.  iii.  2. 

>kj|}       The  peach  tree.    GX.c,  ix.  6. 

Vaou 
t'ao 

ffife       The  last  emperor  of  the  Hea  dynasty, 

«      .  tyrant.    G.L.c.,ix.4.     ^  ^,  a  re- 
cluse.    A.,  XVII.  vi.  1,  8. 
jHfr       To  flourish,  as  a  tree.    D.M.,  xvii.  3. 

tsae 
tsai 

JQ  (1)  IJf^V?  a  famous  duke  of  Ts'e.  A., 
hwan  XIV.  xvi.;  xvii.;  xviii.  (2)  A  surname. 
huan  A„Vn.xii.  (3)^^,  the  three  prin- 
cipal families  in  Loo.  A.,  XVI.  iii. 
^t  Hp  ^£  *PPV*  &  double  surname, 
aan^    A.,  VI.  i.  2. 


fu 

i|£        Abridge.    A.,  X.  xviii.  2. 

Hang 

Afr  Small  pillars,  supporting  the  rafters  of 

eku£  a  house.    A.  V.  xvii. 

chueh 

3t§  To  abandon,  throw  away,  neglect.    A. 

he  V.  xviii.  2 :  XIII.  xix.;  xxx.:  XVII.  xiv.: 

chi  XVIU.  x. 

Ajpf  An  inner  coffin.    A.,  XL  vii.  2. 

kwan 
kuan 
)&       An  outer  coffin.    A.,  XL  vii.  1,  2. 

ko 

$$        ^Jjjfctoaipeiiphim.    A.,  IX.  xxx. 

u        1. 

ti 

Aw        A  surname.    A*  XII.  viiL 

kxh 

chi 

jf&  A  name.    A.,  V.  x. 

chang 

jj^  To  stick  in  the  ground.    A.,  XVHL 

chih  vii.  1. 

£E  The  very  utmost,  as  a  noun  and  adverb. 

k'eih  G.L.C.,  ii.  4.VDJM,  xxvii.  2,  6. 

chi 

Aft       The  name  of  a  State.    G.L.C.,  x,  1L 

ts'oo    A.,  X  VIU.  ix.  2 ;  v. 

ts*u 

^       Glorious.    A„  XIX.  xxr.  4. 

Jung 

ijft        (1)  Music.  Sape-  *£$&> f emalfi muri* 
**      cians.  A.  XVIIL  iv.    (2)  ^  gj£  ||. 
Grand  music-master.    A.,  IIL  xxiiL 
Pleasure,  joy;  to  rejoice  in,  feel  joy. 

loh       Sape, 
le 


yo 


To  find  pleasure  in.  A^  VI.  xxi:  XVL 

jjjjft       (1)  Trees,=vegetation.     D.K,  xx.3. 
shoo     (2)  A  screen.^A-illL  xxiL  3. 


shu 


ke 
che 


A  spring,  source  of  influence.    G.L.C, 
ix.$. 


^       A  weight,  weights.     A.,  XX.  i.  6.    T» 
&'«i«n  weigh.  A.,  IX.  xxixj  The  exigency  of  the 
ch'iian  times,  as^if  determined  by  weighing.  A, 
XVHI.  viii.  4. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX   VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


345 


tuk 
tu 


3* 

tsze 
tz'u 


yuh 


he 
ehi 


tan 


Ifc 

die 
diih 


IE 

thing 
cbeng 


thing 
chcug 

ft 

W-ze 


troo 
wu 


A  coffer,  a  repository.    A-,  XVI.  i.  7. 


THE  76th  RADICAL.  ^. 

(1 )  Next  in  order  or  degree.  D.M.,  xxiii. 
1 ;  A.,  VII.  xxvii.:  XHI.  xx.  2,  3:  XVI. 
ix.    In  A„  XTV.  xxxix.  2,  8,  4,    ft  ?fc 

only=some.  (2)  jj^^£*  in  moments  of 
haste. 

(1)  To  desire,  to  -wish.  GX.t.,  4.  A., 
II.  ii.  6 :  III.  x.;  xvii.  I:  etaL,  sctpe.  (2) 
To  be  covetous,=  W*.    A.,  XII.  xviii.: 

XIV.  ii.;  xiii.    In  A.,  XX.  i.  1,  2,  #£  is 

distinguished  from  w". 

To  deceive,  impose  upon ;  to  be  deceived. 

G.L.C,  vi.  1.  A.,  VL  xxiv.:  IX.  xi.  2: 
XIV.  xxiii. 

To  sing.  A.,  VH.  v.2;xxxi.:  XVIL 
iv.;  xxj  XVIII.  v. 

To  sigh,  with  the  idea  of  admiration. 
A.,  IX.  x.  1 :  XI.  xxv.  7. 

THE  77th  RADICAL.  j]k 

(1)  To  reft ;  where  to  rest.  G.L.T.,  1, 
2 :  c,  Hi.  1,  2,  8.  (2)  To  stop,  desist.  D. 
M.,  xiii.  2.  A.,  IX.  xviii.;  xx.:  XI.  xxiii. 
3 :  XII.  xxiii.:  XVI.  i.  6 :  XIX.  xiv.  (3) 
To  detain.    A~,  XVHI.  vii.  3. 

(1)  To  rectify,  to  adjust ;  be  rectified. 
G.L.T.,  4,  5 :  c,  vii.  1,  8 ;  ix.  8.  D.M., 
xiv.  3.  A.,  I.  xiv.:  VIII.  iv.  3 :  el  a/.,  saipe. 

(2)  Correct,  correctness,  correctly.  G.L. 
c,  vii.  1.  D.M.,  xxxi.  1.  A.,  X.  viii.  3 ; 
ix.;  xiii.  1 ;  xvii.  1 :  In  these  examples, 
correct,=square,  straight.  A.,  XIII.  iii. 
4,  5  ;  vi.:  XIV.  xvi.  (3)  Just,  exactly. 
A.,  VII.  xxxiii.    Observe  A.,  XVII.  x. 

Up.  1st  tone.  The  bull's  eye  in  a  target. 
D.M.,  xiv.  5. 

This.  Scrpe.  tyff  ]|£,  thus.  G.L.c, 
ix.  3.  D.M.,  xvi.  5 ;  xxvi.  6 ;  xxviii.  1. 
^£  |j£,  here.  D.M.,  xxix.  6.  The 
character  does  not  occur  in  the  Analects. 

(1)  The  honorary  epithet  of  the  first  em- 
peror of  the  Chow  dynasty.  D.M.,  xviii. 
1,  2,  3.  Et  a/.,  satpe.  The  name  of  his 
music.  A*,  III.  xxv.  (2)  The  hon.  ep.  of 
others.  A.,  XIV.  xiii.;  xv.  A.,  V.  xx. — 
A.,  U.  vi.:  V.  vii. — A.,  XIX.  xxiii.;  xxiv. 

(3)  A  name.    A.,  XVUL  ix.  4.    (4)  jj£ 

jj£,  name  of  a  place.  A.,  VI.  xii.:  XVII. 


8U1 

§§ 

kwei 
kuei 


tze 
8ZU 


la 

tae 
t'ai 

chih 

® 

ts'an 

m 

pin 


thi 
sha 


The  year,  years.  A.,  IX.  xxvii.:  XVIL 
i.2. 

(1)  To  return.  A.,  V.  xxiL:  XI.  xxv. 
7.  (2)  To  revert  to.  A.,  I.  ix.:  XII.  i.  1. 
(3)  To  turn  to.    D.M.,  xx.  13.    To  flow 

to.  A.,  XIX.  xx.  §j^A^\  t°  turn  to  in 
heart.  A.,  XX.  i.  7.  (4)  To  tnrn  to,  de- 
pend on.  A.,  X.  xv.  1.  (5)  To  present. 
A„  XVII.  i.  1 :  XVIII.  iv.     (6)  =to  be 

married.  G.L.C.,  ix.  6.  (7)  — ,  6S, 
see  on  '=^. 

THE  78th  RADICAL.  ^/ . 

To  die ;  death ;  the  dead.   D.M.,  x.  4,  5 ; 

xix.5.  A.,  II.  v.  3:  IV.  viii.:  XI.  vi.; 
vii.  1,  2 ;  viii.:  ix.;  x.:  xi.;  xii.  2 ;  xxii.:  et 

oZ,  tape,  tt*  &fc  4£,  a  future  mortal. 
A.,  IX.  v.  3. 

Dangerous; — both  what  is  perilous, 
and  being  in  peril.  G.L.c,  x.  3.  A ,  H. 
xv.;  xviii.  2 :  XV.  x  6 :  X VIH.  v.  1. 

To  be  largely  produced ;  to  be  amassed. 
D.M .,  xxvi.  9.    A.,  XI.  xviii.  2. 
Vicious,  violently  bad.    A.,  XIII.  xi. 

To  coffin,  == to  bury.    A.,  X.  xv.  1. 


shoe 
shai 

yin 


teen 
tien 


# 


THE  79th  RADICAL. 


£• 


To  kiU.    A„  XII.  xix.:  XTV.  xvii.  1 ; 

xviii.  1 :  XV.  viii.:  XVin.  vii.  3 :  XX.  it 
2.        =Capital  punishments.  XIII.  xi. 

Gradually  decreasing.      D.M.,  xx.  6. 

A^X.  vi.  9. 

The  name  of  a  dynasty.  G.L.c,  x.  v. 
D.M ,  xxviii.  5.    A.,  II.  xxiii.  2  :  et  al. 

Up.  3d  tone.  To  bring  up  the  rear 
A.,  VI.  xiii. 

(1)  To  blame  excessively,  revile.  A., 
XV.  xxiv.:  XIX.  xxiv.  (2)  To  be  broken. 
A.,  XVI.  i.  7. 

Determined  and  enduring.  D.M.,  xxxi. 
1.    A,  VUI.  vii.  1 :  XIII.  xxv. 

THE  80th  RADICAL,  -flj:. 

Do  not,=do  not  do,  do  not  have,  Ac 

GX.c,  vi.  1 ;  x.  2.    A.,  VI.  iii.  4 :  IX. 
xxiv.:  XI.  xxv.  2  :XH.  xxiii.  In  A.,  IX.lv.; 

it  is  taken  a8=ffi,  the  simple  negative, 

but  its  ordinary  meaning  may  be  retain- 
ed. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


346 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  A*JD  PHRASES* 


INDEX   VIL 


-0J:  A  mother.  A.,  VX  iii.  1.  ^  -flj:,  a 
woo  parent,  parents.  G.L.c,  x.  3.  D.M.,  xv. 
mu      8 ;  xviii.  3.     A„  I.  vii.:  II.  vi.:  IV.  xviii.; 

xix.;  xxi.:  XI.  iv.:  XVH.  xxi.  6:  XVIII. 

ii. 
ifj£        Every.    A„  IDL  xv.:  X.  xiv. 
met 

THE  81rr  RADICAL.  Jjj. 

PU  To  compare,  be  compared.    A.,  VII.  i. 
pe 
P* 

J£  Low.  3d  tone.    (1)  To  follow.    A^  IV. 

pe  x.     (2)  Partiianly.     A.,  H.  xiv.     (8) 

P*  Joined  with  ^,  within,  by  the  time  of. 
An  XI.  xxr.  4,  5. 

THE  82d  RADICAL.  ^1. 

^L  The  hair,  a  hair.  D3L,  xix.  4 ;  xxxiiL 
union    6. 


THE  83d  RADICAL.  J=£. 

Jpp  A  family.  Follow*  surname*,  and  de- 
she  notes  particular  individuals.  A-,  III.  i.: 
ahih     et  a/.— A.,  HI.  xxi.— A.,  XIV.  x.— AM  3. 

— A^  IIL  xxii.— A.,  XTV.  xli.;  xlii.— A., 

XIX.  xix. 
ES        (1)  The  people,  the  multitude.    Passim. 

**»  (2)  —  ^»  man,  men.  A„  VX  xx.:  XV. 
xxxiv.  And  perhaps  in  some  other 
places,  as  D.AL,  iii.  A~,  VI.  xxvik  XVL 
Ix.:  XVIL  xvi. 

THE  84th  RADICAL.  ^. 

€  Breath.  A.,  X.  iv.  4.  jjj[^|£>  Wood 
k'e  and  breath,=the  physical  powers.  A., 
<**     XVI.  tU.    ^jft^^  mankind, 

DJtf.,  xxxi.  4.     Obserre^^,  A., 

VHI.  iv.  3,  and  4jt  3&,  A^  X.  viii.  4. 


shwvy 
shui 

Jji 

Sfung 

% 

fan 

hew 
cMu 


THE  85th  RADICAL,  j^. 

Water.    D.M.,  xxvi.  9;  xxx.  1. 
VI.  xxi.:  VH.  xv.:  XV.  xxxiv. 


To  perpetuate,  perpetual, 
6.    A,XX.i.  1. 
Universally.    A.,  I.  vi. 


DJCxxix, 


(1)  To  seek  for ;  also  to  ask,  request. 
GX.C,  ix.  2,  4.  D.M.,  xiii.  4 ;  xiv.  8,  5. 
A.,  I.  x.  1,  2 ;  xiv.:  IV.  xiv.:  et  aly  same. 
(2)  The  name  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 
A.,  V.  vii.  3 :  VI.  vi.;  x.:  et  a/.,  scepe. 


^flr       The  name  of  a  stream.    An  VI.  rii. 

udn 

wen 

ffi       The  name  of  a  stream.    A,  XL  xxr.  7. 

e 
i 

i^C     &V&>toba<he-  A,xrv.xxii2. 

muh 
mu 

$£       (1)  To  die,  be  dead.    A^  I.  xL:  IX.  v. 

mSh     2*    t*£ttb  afterdeath-    GX.a,xiL5. 
mU      A^  XV.  xix.     (2)  To  exhaust,  be  ex- 
hausted.   A^  XVIL  xxi  a.    j£  jSjgv 

A.,  X.iv.5.    j£|g,A^XIV.x,3. 
ffil        f@f  Jlfe' in  dan8er'  m  confusion.    A., 

/>*«    rv.  v.  3. 

fif       Rivers,  a  river     D.JL,  xxvi  9.    A^ 

ho       Vn.  x.  3.   The  river,  C«.,  the  Yellow  river. 
A.,  IX.  viii.:  XVin.  ix.  3. 

X^  To  regulate,  manage,  govern.  G.L.T., 
ch'e  4 :  c,  ix.  1,  5 ;  x.  1.  D.&L,  xifi.  2 ;  xix. 
chin    6,  11,  14,  17.    A,  V.  vit.  2  :  XIV.  xxiL  2. 

V^       To  be  regulated,  to  be  well  governed. 
che       GX.Tn  5,  7.    A.,  Vffl.  xx.  1 :  XV.  iv. 
chin 

XH.       "^  jfl»  the  designation  of  a  recluse, 

tseu      An  XVilL  vi  1,  2, 

chu 

fjjjj*       To  sell.    A*  IX.  xii.  Retailed.  A^X. 

koo      viii.  ft. 
ku 

Low.  3d  tone.    To  be  obstructed,  in- 
applicable,   A,  XIX.  iv. 


ne 
ni 

ts'euem 
ch'Qan 


A  f  tuntain,  a  spring.  D  Jfc,  jacri.  2,  JL 


it  (1)  A  model;  to  imitate.  GJLcix.8. 
f&  D.M.,  xxix.  5.  (2)  Law-like, =8trictj 
fa        laws.    A.,  IX.  xxiii.:  XX.  L  6. 

^       (1)  A  dignified  ease.    A.,  VTJ,  xxv.  3, 

^      Oppos.to^A^Xm.xxvirXX.S.l, 
tM      2.    (2)  Arrogant.    A.,  IX.iiLS.    Coup- 
led with  ||f,  G.L.C,  x.  18;    (3)  j$t 
tjf,  the  name  of  a  mountain*  A^  HLtl 
^fe  'f ft,  boa.  designation  of  an  ancient 

worthy.    A„VUI.i   ^^Mmeof 
a  Book  in  the  Shoo-king.    GX-o,  x.  14» 

t¥  f¥  jSu?  *°  ovelflow*  D,M^  xxxi-  *• 
9°*9    7$  7$  ^'  the  ftPPearoce  of  vast 

swelling  waters,  grandly.     D^t,  xvi  3; 

xxvu.2.    A^  VIII.  xv. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


index  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


347 


}jj§       To  sprinkle.    A.,  XIX.  xii  1. 

that 

thai 

jfa       A  water  channel,  a  ditch.    ®  $£, 

Ae«*     A.,VHI.xxi 
hsueh 

^       A  ford.    A„  XVHI.  xi.  1,  2. 

tsin 

chin 

j^|       To  leak.    D.M.,  xxvi  9. 

see 

hsieh 

jj^£  (1>  Flowing,  a  current.  D.M.,  xxx.  3. 
lew  (2)  Weak,  unstable.  D.M.,  x.  5.  (8)  To 
litt       banish.     $T  ^,  G.L.O.,  x.  15.     (4) 

~F   $fe'  a  low"lvinS  situation.      A., 

X VII.  xxiv.  1 :  XIX.  xx. 
^        jfgf  Jfgj ,  vast.    D.M„xxxii2. 
Aoou 
liao 

J?JL       To  float,  floating.    A.,  V.  vii  VII.  xv. 

fou 

y£        To  wash.    A.,  XI.  xxy.  7.    ^C  $£, 

yuA      to  bathe.    A.,  XIV.  xxii.  2. 

yu 

y^J  The  sea,  seas.  D.M.,  xxvi.  9.  A.,  V. 
£2      vi.:  XVin.  ix.  5.     03  '/0,  a  name  for 

the  empire,  the  world,    D.M.,  xvii  1 : 
xviii  2.    A.,  XII.  v.  4 :  XX.  i  1, 

To  soak.    A„XILvi 


The  approach  of  a  superior ;  to  govern, 
preside  over.    A.,  XV.  xxxii.  2,  3. 


M=f       To  steep  in  muddy  water.    A.,  XVH. 

net      vii.  3. 
liieh 

iffc       The  name  of  a  stream.    G.L.c,  Ui.  4. 

ke 

ch*i 

j&        Insipid.    D.M.,  xxxiii.  1. 

tan 

y£       Licentious.    A.,  HI.  xx.:  XV.  x.  6. 

^jjt       Deep.    A.,  VIH.  iii:  XTV.  xlii  2. 

thin 

shdn 

y||       Pure,  purity.    An  V,  xviii.  2:  XVHI. 

tWn^  viii  4, 
ch*ing 

vjj||       (1)  A  gulf,  an  abyss ;  deep,  the  deep. 

yuen    D.M.,  xii.  3 ;  xxxi.  2,  3 ;  xxxii.  2.    A., 
yiian   VIH.  iii.    (2)  The  name  of  Conf.  favou- 
rite disciple.  A.,  V.  xxv.:  Vn.  xiL:  ti  aA, 


Urn 
chin 

f 

li 


Shallow.    A.,  XTV.  xlii  2. 


ch*ien 


jfiSt,  (I)  Benign,  unpretending,     A^  VH. 

wdn  xxxvii.:  XVI.  x.:  XIX.  ix.    D.M.,  xxxi, 

wen  1 ;  xxxiii,  1.    (2)  To  cherish,  know  tho- 
roughly,   A-,  U.  xi    D JUL,  xxvii.  6. 

^jfe  (1)  To  ramble,  to  seek  recreation.    A., 

ytw  VII.  vi.  4.    (2)  -^  *$£,  the  desig.  of 

one  of  Couf.  disciples.    A.,  H.  vii.:  IV. 
xxv.:  et  a/.,  sctpc 

£fj|j  To  fathom,  ^^jl,  unfathomable.  D. 

ts'ih  M,,  xxvi.  7,  9. 
ts<£ 

^  (1)  Boiling  water.    A.,  XVI.  xi    (2) 

fang  Name  of  the  first  emperor  of  the  Shang 

dynasty.    G.L.C.,  ii.  I.    A,,  XH.  xxii.  6, 

^  The  name  of  a  State.    A.,  XIV.  xii 

t'Ang 

t'eng 

^S  1JS  JQ,  the  appearance  of  an  inunda* 

fooa  tion.    A.,XVHL  v.  3. 
t'ao 

j$T  $$T  @f£>  a  double  surname.    A.,  V.  v. 

ts'eih 
ch'i 

^  ^  ^' the  nftmo  °*  *  reclu0e«    <A« 

»etA  XVHI.  vi. 

ni 

$D$  7^  j££'  *°  overflow«     D  JL,  xxxi.  4. 

yft  Great,  all-embracing,  D.M.,  xxxi  2, 8. 

p'u 

$6  To  leak.    J§jl $j|,  the  part  of  a  house 

fou;  open  to  the  light  of  heaven.  DJkL,  xxxiii. 

lou  3. 

^  Aditch.    ^^A.,Vm.xxi^ 

*°»  ^,  A^  XIV.  xviii  3. 

The  name  of  a  river.  A ,  XVHL  ix.  4. 


kou 


han 

32       To  purify,  pure,    A^  VH,  xxviii  2  s 

tei      XVHI.  vii.  5. 
chieh 

JB1       To  soak,  moisten,  enrich,  adorn.  GX.c* 

jun      vi.4.    A.,  XII.  vi:  XTV.  ix. 

9fifc        (1)  To  extinguish;  be  extinguished* 

mien   A"  ^  L  7'     (2)  ^  W'  a  name^ 
A.,  VI.  xii. 

fB       To  dive,  sink.    D3L,  xxxiii.  2. 


ch'ien 


t,  a  double  surname,   A*  VI 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


348 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND    PHRASES. 


INDEX   VIL 


Ue 
cl.i 


tuh 
tu 


To  help,  benefit.    A.,  VL  xxviii  1. 
A  ditch.    ^Vft,  A.,  XIV.  xviii  3. 


yjH        A  bank,  the  winding  and  curving  of  a 

yuh      river's  banks.    G.L.C.,  iii.  4. 

yii 

j|j£        To  overflow,  exceed  due  bounds.    A., 

Ian       XV.  i.  3. 

i$&       To  pour  out  a  libation.    A.,  III.  x. 

ktvan 
kuan 


ho 
huo 

m 

let 
lieh 

t*ae 
tsai 

yen 


yen 


woo 
WU 


THE  86th  RADICAL.  jfo. 

Fire.    A,  XV.  xxxiv.     ^  ^,  'to 

change  the  Are,'  i> ,  to  get  Are  in  all  the 
difft.  ways.    A.,  XVII.  xxi.  3. 

Violent.    A.,  X.  xvi  6. 


£  9-  $S  calamity.     D.M.,  xxviii.  1. 


A  final  particle.    Pasiim.     (1)  It  is 

found  at  the  end  of  clauses,  when  the 
mind  expects  the  sequel.  G.L.C,  vii.  2. 
D.M.,  xi.  1 ;  xiii.  4.  A.,  V.  xxiii.:  VI.  vii. 
et  «/.,  sitpe.  (2)  It  is  found  at  the  end 
of  sentences,  and  gives  a  liveliness  to  the 
style.  D.M.,  x.  5 ;  xiv.  2.  A?  I.  xiv.: 
IV.  xvii.:  etai,  *a*pe.  (3)  It  is  found 
often  at  the  end  of  correlative  clauses 
and  sentences.  G.L.C.,  viii.  1 ;  x  13.  D. 
M  ,  i.  ."> ;  xii.  2  ;  xxvi.  9.  A.,  VIII.  xiii. 
3:  XI.  xxiv.  3:  XIII.  xx.2:  et  aL  (4) 
Observe  D.M.,  xxix.  2.    A.,  V.  xii. 

Up.  1st  tone.  An  interrogative  parti- 
cle, generally  best  translated  by  *  how.'  It 
is  placed  at  the  beginning  of  the  clause 
to  which  it  lielongs,  unless  where  ano- 
ther particle,  or  the  nominative,  immedi- 
ate! v  precedes.  D.M.,  xxxii.  1.  A.,  II. 
x.  4:  III.  xxii.  2 :  IV.  U  V.  ii;  iv.  2  ;  x.; 
xviii.  I,  2:  Hal.,  sitpe. 

No,  not,  to  be  without,  not  to  have. 
Passim.  Joined  to  verbs,  adjectives,  and 
nouns.    It  is  often  followed  by  pjfr.   A., 

III.  vii.:  IX.  ii.  1 :  et  al  The  ffi  must 
sometiun-s  be  understood.  A,  XX.  iii. 
1,  2,  3:  et  al.  ltt....yf\,  a  strong  affir- 
mation, often  with  ftr  between.  G.L.c, 
ii.  4  :  vi.  2 :  et  al.    So  ^—  fiE.     A., 

vii. vu. i.  fejtj... .f^  &V-- 

.5E,  forms  of  int  Trogation.  A.,  IX.  vi. 
a .  VI.  i.  3  :  it  al  Opposed  t »  ^,  stand- 


fun 
fen 


jen 
jan 


htran 
huan 

JH 

cJutou 
chao 

m 

he 
hsi 

9» 

shuh 
shu 

2$ 

yen 


suy 
sui 


ts&ng 
tseng 


ing  absolutely,=the  state  of  being  with- 
out. A.,  IX.  xi.  2 :  VIII.  v.  1.  So  ft£ 
J£*  there  is  not  it,  opposed  to  >£|  jj^. 

G.L.c,  ix.  1.    Observe   &  J#  ^  it 
is  of  no  use  doing  so.    An  iCIX.  xxiv. 
To  be  burned.    A.,  X.  xiL 


(l)So.  A,  HI.  xni.  2:  VI.  xxiv.:  VIIL 
xx.  3:  XIV.  xiii.  2.  =yes.  A„XV.  ii2; 
xii  3 :  XVII.  vii.  3 :  X VIII.  vi  3.     $$ 

g|J,  so  then,  well  then.  $fc  jfij,  so 
but.  A..  III.  xxii.  3:  XI.  xiv.  2;  xxiiL  5: 
XIX.  xv.    (2)  To  be  right.    An  VI.  i  4. 

(8)  ffi  ^,  and  afterwards.  A^  VI. 
xvi.:  IX.  xiv.;  xxvii.:  et  al.  (4)  Added 
to  adjectives,  forming  adverbs.  GX.C, 
vi.  2.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  1.  A,  V.  xxi.:  IX. 
X.  1.  2 :  XX.  ii.  2 :  XIX.  ix.:  et  al.— Oh*. 
AM  VIII.  xxi.:  XI.  xu.  2 :  XIV.  vi.  1.  (5) 
■4^-  4Wc,  name  of  a  member  of  the  35 
family.    A*  XI.  xxiii. 

^j  ^  j^.,  how  glorious,  A„VUI. 
xix.  2. 


To  enlighten,  to  shine  on.    D.M.,  xxxi 


4. 


Bright.    GX.c,  iii.  3. 


Cooked,  to  cook.    A.,  X.  xiii  1. 


(1)  A  feast,    D.M.,  xix.  4.    (2)  Easy 

and  unoccupied.    A.,  VII.  iv. 

^t  1^'  to  ODtain  firc  by  Dorin&  OT 
friction.    A.,  XVTL  xxi.  3. 

THE  87th  RADICAL,  ffv 

To  wrangle,  to  strive.     6X.c„  x.  7. 
D.M.,  xxxiU.  4.    A.,  HI.  vii.:  XV.  xxi. 

To  do,  to  make.  G.L.c„  vi  2 ;  x.  18.  (1) 

D.M.,  xi.  1 ;  xiii.  1 ;  xvi.  1.  A.,  III.  xxvi.: 
XIV.  xv.;  xviii.:  XIX.  iv.;  xv.;xvi.:  et  nl^ 
s&pe.  =to  be  in  charge  of,  to  admin L«ter, 
to  govern.  D.M.,  xx.  12,  15.  A-,  II.  i: 
IV.  xiii.:  XL  xxv.  4,  5 :  XIII.  iii.  I  ;  xi: 
etal.  ^^=^hy-  A.,  VUI.  xxiT.: 
XIV.  xxxiv.;  xxx vii.  2.  (2)  To  be.  G. 
L.c,  x.  5.  D.M.,  vi:  xvii.  1.  A-,  I.  ii 
2 ;  xii:  VI.  ii.;  iii.  3 ;  vii.;  xi.;  xii.:  tt  al^ 
Sfepe.  At  the  beginning  of  clauses,  it 
may  be  often  translated  by  who  is.  1>. 
M.,  xxii;  xxiii.:  et  al      (3)  Before  noun* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


index  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES. 


349 


of  relation,  and  others,  it.=to  play,  as,  to 
show  one's-seif  to  be.  GX.c,  iii.  8 ;  ix. 
8.     D.M.,  Yiii.  2.    A.,  I.  ii.  1 :  XIII.  xv. 

2,  3,  4:  et  al.  (4)  J#  jg.  with  or 
•without  intermediate  words.  To  take  to 
be,=to  regard  as,  to  consider,  to  have  to 
be  ;  to  use  to  make.  G.L.T.,  6 ;  x.  11,  12, 
21,  22.  D.M.,  xviii.  1.  A.,  II.  viii.:  III. 
viii.;  xyiii.;  xxiv.:  XIV.  ii.  1,  2 ;  iii.;  xiii. 

1,  2 ;  xix.  2 :  et  a/.,  $cepe.    Sometimes  jgfc 

is  found  alone,  without  the  ^A.    A.,  IX. 

xi.  2 :  XIX.  ii :  XI.  xxiv.  3 :  et  al.    Obs. 

A.,  XII.  viii.:  XIII.  v.:  XIX.  xxiv.    Obs. 

also  J£  £  $£,  A.,  XVHI.  L,  and  the 

same  idiom  in  other  places. 
t/Si        Low.  3d  tone.    For,  because  of,  in  be- 
wei       half  of,  with  a  view  to,  because ;  to  be 

for.       D.M.,  xix.  4.    ?     A.,  I.  iv.:  III. 

xvi.:  xxii.  2 :  VI.  iii.  1 ;  vii.:  VII.  xiv.  1, 

2  :  XI.  ix.  3  ;  xvi.  1 :  XIH.  xviii.  2 :  XIV. 

xxv.:  XV.  xxxix. 


UeZ 
chio 


Rank,  dignity.    D.M.,  ix.;  xix.  1. 


THE  88th  RADICAL.  ^£. 


JK 

pan 


yew 
yu 


<&  A  father.  Sap*.  §£  £  ]|  j£, 
foo  uncles  and  cousins.  D.M.,  xx.  13.  So 
f°        3LJL    A.,  IX.  xr.    -^-^r,  parent., 

a  parent,  tape.   To  be — play — the  father. 

A.,  XII.  xi.  1,  2.     \  3£,  see  \. 

#£        Vp.  2d  tone,    ^f  ^£>  name  of  a  place. 

foo       A.,  XIII.  xviii. 

fu 

THE  89th  RADICAL.  ^£. 

g|        (1)  You,  your.    G.L.c.,  x.  4.    D.M., 

urk  xv.  2 ;  xxxiii.  3.  A.,  III.  xvii.  2 :  V.  xi., 
xxv.  1 :  et  aL,  scepe.  (2)  After  adjectives; 
making  adverbs.  A.,  IX.  x.  3 :  XI.  xxv. 
4 :   XVII.  iv.  2.     (3)  A  final  particle, 

synonymous  with  HI,  simply,  just.    D. 

M.,  xiii.  4.    A.,  X.  i.  2.    -^  jg|9  so, 
just.    A.,  VII.  xviii.  2 :  xxxiii. 

THE  90th  RADICAL,  ^j  . 

jgf        A  wall.    A.,  V.  ix.  1 :  XVH.  x:  XIX. 

^xxiii.  2,  3.      ^^ascreenina 
prince's  court.    A.,  XVI.  i.  13. 

THE  91st  RADICAL.  Jjl. 

fY       A  splinter,  a  half.    A.,  XII.  xii. 

p'efn 

p'ien 


Tables  of  population.    A.,  X.  xvi.  3, 
A  window.    A.,  VI.  viii. 

THE  93d  RADICAL.  2jl, 


&L        (1)  A  cow,  an  ox,  the  cow  kind.    A.f 

new      VI.  iv.:  XVII.  iv.  2.     G.L.O,  x.  21.     (2) 

niU        I P     l"1  **ie  designation  °*  one  °*  tne 

disciples.    A.,  VI.  viii.:  XI.  ii.  2.     Jf\ 

&  2p,  a  disciple  of  Conf.    A.,  XII. 
iii.;  iv.;  v. 
ife        Pp  ffi:  the  name  of  a  place.     A., 
mow     XVII.  vii.  2. 
mou 

5£        Surname  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples.    A., 

laou     IX.  vi.  4. 
lao 

>PE        The  male  of  animals,  translated  victim. 

mow     A.,  XX.  i.  3. 
mou 

fifa  A  thing,  things.  ^§gj  jy/J,  all  things, 
xcuh  =animals  and  things.  D.M.,  xxii.  =iuen 
wu       and  things.    D.M.,  xxv.  2,  3. 

^jft        3&1  2fe,  a  brindled  cow.    A.,  VI.  iv. 

le 
li 

THE  94th  RADICAL.  -fc 

^        A  dog.    A.,  H.  vii.:  XH.  vui.  3. 

h'euen 
ch'uan 

4|J  (1)  To  offend,  be  offended,  against.  A., 
fan      ii.  1 :  VUI.  v.    To  withstand  to  the  face. 

A.,  XIV.  xxiii.    (2)  ^^j^,  uncle  Fan. 

G.L.C.,  x.  13. 

ijj        Ardent,  ambitious,  extravagant,  extra- 

Jr'imn^vagance.    A.,  V.  xxi^  VLH.  xvi.:  XIII. 
k'uangxxi.  1 :  XVII.  viii.  3 ;  xvi   2.    A  mad- 
man.   A.,  XVIII.  v.  1. 

3ft        The  name  of  the  northern  barbarians. 

{«•*      ^|$t  barbarous  tribes.    D.M.,  xiv.  2. 

1         A.,  III.  r.:  Xni.  xix. 

^ffl        (1)  To  be  familiar  with.    A.,  X.  xvi.  2. 

hed  (2)  To  be  disrespectful  to.  A.,  XVI. 
hsia     viii.  2. 

||£        A  fox.    A.,  IX.  xxvi.  1 :  X.  vi  4,  7. 

hoo 

hu 

^j|        Cautious  and  decided.    A,,  XIII.  xxL 

kt  neri 
chuau 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


850 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX  vn. 


$9        %f  l*J'  tbe  *PPe*rallce  of  luxuriance, 
e       GX.C,  Ul  4» 

Fierce.    A^  VIL  xxxviU  XX.  ii.  1,  2. 


mdng 
tndng 

jr«w 
yu 


ytt 
tu 

huo 


heen 
hsien 

§how 
ahou 


(1)  At.  GX.C,  iv.  A.,  V.  xviii.  2 : 
VII.  xxxii.:  XI.  x.;  xv.:  XU.  viii.  3;  xiik 
XVII.  x^  xii.:  XIX.  xxV.  3.  (2)  Still, 
yet*  D.M.,  xii.  2  *  xiii.  2 ;  xxxiii.  0.  A., 
VI.  xxviii.  1 :  VIII.  xvii.:  XU.  ix  3 : 
XI V.  xxxviU.  1  j  xlv»:  XV. xxv.  It  XVII. 
xxii.:  XVIH.  V.  1 1  XIX.  xxv. 

Litigations.    A.,  XII*  xii 


(1)  Only.  A.,  XH.  xli.  (2)  Alone. 
A.,  XVI.  xiii.  2,  8.  J£  ^,  the  being 
alone.    G.L.C.,  vi.  1,  2.^  D.M.,  i.  3. 

To  obtain ;  acquisition.  A.,  VI.  xx.  To 
obtain  the  confidence  of,  to  gain.  D.M^ 
xx.  6, 17.  $&  fp,  to  Bin,  offend  against. 
A.,  HI.  xiii  2. 

(1)  Used  for  €£,  wise  men.  A,,  III.  ix. 
(2)  An  honorary  epithet.    G.L.C.,  x.  22. 

Wild  animals,  D.M„  xxvi.  9.  A., 
XVILix,  7:XVHLvi.4. 

THE  95tH  RADICAL.  A* 


tfc        Dark-coloured.    A*  X.  vi  10 :  XX.  i. 

heuen   3. 
hstian 

3&       (1)  To  follow,  accord  with.    D.M.,  i.  1. 
gj     (2)  ^|jj\  hastily.    A.,  XL  xxv.  4. 

THE  96* h  RADICAL.  ^S* 

_^R       (1)  A  gem,  gems.    A.,  IX.  xii.:  XVI.  1. 

*f      7:XVn.xi    (2)  'fft]}*,  a  designation. 

y         A.,  XIV.  xxYi.:  XV.  xi.  2. 

3£        (1)  A  king,  kings.    G.L.C.,  iii.  5.     A., 

wan9  xm.  xii.    ^  J,  the  former  kings. 

A.,  L  xii.  2.    A  former  king.    A.,  XVI. 

i.  4.     (2)  3T  Jgk,  a  double  surname. 

A.,  IDE.  xiii.:  XTV.  xx.  2. 
tj?        Low.  3d  tone.     To  exercise  true,  king* 
wong   ly  authority.     DJbL,  xviii.  3;  xxix.  1. 

^6  ^£,  to  carry  up  the  title  of  king  to. 

DM.,  xviii.  3. 
$§l         Distinctive,  discriminating*       D.M., 
fc         xxxi.  1 ;  xxxiii.  1. 


M 
cho 

¥ 

ch*in 
shd 


teen 
ilen 

ha 


kua 

Hi 

p'eaou 
plao 


To  cut,  as  jewels  or  gems.    GXx,  iii. 
4.    A^Lxv.2. 

A  harp,  or  lute.    D.M.,  xv.  2. 


(1)  Stern,  majestic.  GX.C,  iiL  4.  (2) 
The  harpsichord.  A.,  XI.  xiv.  1 ;  xxv.  7: 
XVH.xx.1.    5^^,D.M^xv.2. 

A  gemmed  vessel,  used  in    sacrifice. 
Same  as  the  above. 

THE  97th  RADICAL.  >Q£. 

A  gourd.  H|  J5X»  A.,  XVU.  viL  4- 
Supposed  to  be  instead  of  /|A.  A-,  X 
viii.  10. 

A  calabash.    A.,  VI.  ix. 


kan 


§hin 
sb£n 


$ting 
sheng 


son 
ch'an 


THE  99th  RADICAL.  "^. 

Sweet,  to  enjoy  as  sweet  or  pleasant 
A,  XVIL  xxi.  5. 
Excessive,  to  an  exceeding  degree.    A., 

VH.  v.j  xxviii.  2:  VHI.  x.:  XV.  xxxiv.  ^ 

"{&....>  more  important  than.  A.,  XIX. 
xx. 

THE  100th  RADICAL,    ifc. 

(1)  To  produce,  to  be  produced.  Gi^c^ 
x.  18.  D.M.,  xvii.  3 ;  xx.  5 ;  xxvi.  7,  9. 
A.,  I.  ii.  2 :  VII  xxii.:  XVH.  xix.  3.  (2) 
To  be  born.    D.M.,  xx.  9 ;  xxviii.  1.    A-, 

vn.  xix.    Zjr  ffjj  £n  *£> born  ^^ 

knowledge.  A.,  XVI.  ix.:  VI.  xvii.  (3) 
To  live.  A,  VI.  xvii.:  XII.  x.  2 :  XVIL 
Xxi.  6.  The  living,  when  living.  DJt., 
xix.  5.  A.,  II.  v.  3 :  X.xiii.  1.  Life.  A* 
XI.  x^  XII.  v.  3 1  XV.  viii:  XIX.  xxv.  4. 

-^  £jfc  elders.  A.,  H.  viii:  XTV.  xML 

2.  ^  /£♦  a  youth.  A.,  IX.  xxii.  2p 

lfc,  the  life-time.    A.,  XIV.  xiii.  2.  (4) 

28£  ik,  a  double  surname.  A.,  XIV. 
xxxiv. — V.  xxiii. 

-7- £,  the  designation  of  a  statesman 
of  Conf.  time.    A.,  V.  xv.:  XIV.  ix.;  x. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  VII. 


CHINESE  CHABACTERS  AND  PHBASES. 


351 


m 

yung 


ntng 


yew 
7u 


•Am 
■hen 

ep 

iceS 
chia 


pwan 
pan 

cA'euA 
cb*u 


THE  lOlBt  RADICAL,  ffi. 

(1)  To  use ;  to  employ  (in  office),  to  ex» 
pend.  GX.c^  ii.  4;  x.  18.  D.M.,  vi.;  xxviii 
1.    H  BJ ,  D.M.,  xxxviii.  5.  A.,  I.  v.;  xii. 

l:VII.x.:Xm.iv.3:«/a/.  $f|$J,why 
use  ?«=of  what  use  is  ?  A.,  V.  it.  2 :  XII. 
xix.:  XVX  i.  6:  XVII.  iv.  2.    (2)  ^ 

ffl^S  $'  thereby.    A.,  V.  xxii. 
A  surname.    A.,  V.  xx. 


THE  102D  RADICAL.  QJ. 

(1)  From,  proceeding  from.  A.,  XII.  i.  1. 
jSjf  Jjfj,  motires.  A.,  II.  x.  2.  s=by,  to 
proceed  by,  to  follow.  A.,  I.  xii.  1 1  VL 
xii.;  xr.:  VIH.  ix.:  IX.  X.  3.  (2)  The 
name  of  Tsze-loo,  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 
A.,  II.  xvii.:  V.  vi.;  vii.:   et  aL,   gape. 

ity  {£•    ±~>  VI.  vu  VI.  xxiii.;  xvm. 
▼i.3. 
(1)  To  repeat.  D3C,  xvii.  4.    (2)  & 

^  #U>  easy-like.  A.,  VH.  iv.  (3) 
A  surname.    A.,  V.  x. 

-fc  fpj,  the  name  of  a  Book  in  the 
Shoo-king.    GX.c^  i.  2. 

To  respect.    A^  IX.  xxii.    J|  ^, 

G.L.C.,  viii.  1.  To  reverence.  D.M.  xx. 
18.  To  stand  in  awe  of.  A.,  XVI.  viii. 
1,  2:  XX.  ii.  2.    To  be  put  in  fear.    A- 

IX.  v.:  XI.  xxii. 

To  transgress  what  is  right.    A*  VI. 

xxv.:  XH  xv.  To  rebel.  A-,  XVTL  v.; 
vii.  2. 

To  breed,  nourish,    G.L.C.,  x.  21.    A., 

X.  xiii.  1. 


jjjJl       A  name.    A.,  XTV.  xxxiv. 


hwd 
hua 


tang 


To  mark  off  by  a  line,  to  limit  one's- self. 
A^VLx. 

(1)  Different  (follow,  by  5p  and  ^). 

A^  I.  x.  2:  XI.  xxv.  7:  XH.  x.  3:  et*al. 
=Other.  A.,  XVI.  xiv.  (2)  Strange, 
extraordinary.    A.,  IL  xvL:  XI.  xxiii  2. 

(1)  To  undertake,  sustain.  A.,  XV. 
xxxv.  (2)  As  a  preposition,  in,  in  regard 
to.    A,  X.vi.3:XIX.xii. 

The  imperial  domains.    G.L.C,  iii.  1. 


chi 


|S        A  boundary,  a  limit.    fflE  , 

keang  less*    DM,,  xxvi.  5. 
chiang 


,  bound* 


800 

shu 


kew 
chin 


chi 


m 

ping 


t&ng 
teng 


* 


pih 
pai 

pih 
pai 


2 


THE  1030  RADICAL.  /£. 

(1)  Distance— in  feeling.  A.,  IV.  xxvi. 

2)  Coarse.  A-,  VII.  xv.:  X.  viii.  10: 
lQV.x.3. 

To  doubt,  doubtful  points.  D.M.,  xxix. 

3,  4.  A.,  H.  xviii.  2:  XH.  xx.  6:  XVI. x. 

THE  104th  RADICAL.  jf~. 

A  chronic  illness ;  spoken  of  the  mind, 

dolorous,  dissatisfied.  DM.,  xx.  16; 
xxxiii.2.    A,,  XH.iv.2. 

(1)  Sickness,  to  be  sick,  ill.  A.,  H.  vi.: 
VI.  viii.:  VTH.  iii.;  iv.:  X.  xiii.  3 :  XVH. 
xx.    Spoken  of  conduct.    A^  XVII.  xvi. 

^  ^p|.  A.,  VH.  xxxiv.:  etaL  (g)  To 
dislike.  A.,  VHI.  x.:  XIV.  xxxiv.  2: 
XV.  xix.:  XVI  i.  9.  jft^  5g£,  to  bo 
jealous.  GX.c,  x.  13.  (3)  Actively, 
hastily.    GX.C,  x.  18.    A.,  X.  xvii.  2. 

(1)  Severe  sickness.    To  become  sick, 

A.,IX.xi.  2;  XV.  i.  2.  Jfc  gj,  A„ 
VH.  xxxiv.:  IX.  xi.  1.  (2)  To  be  soli- 
citous about,  distressed  about.  An  VI. 
xxviii.  1 :  XIV.  xlv.:  XV.  xviii. 

THE  105th  RADICAL.  ?\ 

To  ascend.    D.M.,  xv.  1. 


To  send  forth,  =to  produce.  D.M., 
xxvii.  2.  Passive,  to  be  put,  to  go,  forth. 
D.M.,  i.  4.  Impulsive.  D.M.,  xxxi.  1. 
So,  §£  ^  A.,  VII.  xviii.  2.  =To 
help  out.  A.,  VII.  viii.  «=To  set  forth, 
to  illustrate.  A.,  H.  ix.  To  make  illus- 
trious. GX.c,  x.  20.  To  increase.  G. 
L.c,{x.  20. 

THE  106th  RADICAL.    £j. 


White.  A.,  XI.  v.:  XVTI.  vii.  3.  » 
naked,  applied  to  weapons.    D.M.,  ix. 

A  hundred.  D.M..  xxvii.  3 ;  xxix.  3, 4. 
A.,  II.  ik  et  aL  =all,  used  as  a  round 
number  for  the  whole  of  a  class.  Q 
T»  D.M.,  xx.  12,  13.    A.,  XIX.  vii 

Digitized  by  VjOCW  Ic 


81 


352 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


index  vn. 


II.  xxiii.  2.  "g*  ^§f,  A„  XIV.  xliii  2 : 
XIX.  xxiii.  3.  j?J  $J,  A.,  XVII.  xix. 
3.  "g"  ££,  the  people.  D.M.,  xx.  13, 
14.  A.,XlLix.i:ttaL  "gf  |j|  £ 
§j£,  a  house  of  100  chariots,  the  highest 
officer  in  a  State.  G.L.c,  x.  22.  A.,  V. 
vii.  3.  B"  H|  ^  f«|  •  authority  over 
100  le,=a  large  State.    A.,  VIII.  vi. 

6\J        [J^jj^,  seeking  display.    D.M.,  xxxiii. 

tcih      1. 

ti 

«6jr  AIL  At  the  commencement  of  clauses, 
ketie  with  reference  to  preceding  statements, 
chieh  If  it  have  a  noun  with  it.  the  noun  always 

precedes.    G.L.T.,  6 ;  cM  1.4.  'D.M*  i.  4 ; 

Tii.    Ah  II.  Tii.  1 :  VH.  xvii.:  XI.  ii.  1 : 

tt  a/.,  tiept. 

IfS  Great,  august.  Ml]§l  Kw»  m08t 
hwang  great  and  sovereign  God.  A.,  XX.  i. 
huang  3. 

Clear,  distinct.    A.,  HI.  xxiii. 


chiao 


THE  107th  RADICAL.  ]£. 


ik       The  hides  of  animals.    A  piece  of  skin 
/)'«       or  leather.    A.,  III.  xvi. 

THE  108th  RADICAL.  JUL 


yih 

yi 


K6 
ho 


FuU.    A^  VH.  xxv.  3.    To  fill    A., 
VIII.  xv. 
(1)  To  add  to ;  more.    A.,  H.  xxiii.  2; 

VI.  iii.  1:  XI.  xvi.  1:  XIIL  i.  2.  ^ 
4£,  one  who  has  made  progress.  A., 
XIV.  xlvii.  1,  2.  (2)  Of  advantage,  pro- 
fitable. G.L.C,  vi.  2.  A.,  XV.  xxx: 
XVI.  iv.;  v. 
Why  not  ?    A^  V.  xxv.  1 :  Xn.  ix.  2. 


thing 
sheng 


taou 
tao 


Uin 
chin 


kern 
chien 


Complete,  abundant,  rich.    G.L.c,  iii. 

4.  D.M.,  XVI.  i.  8.    ||  JJJJ,  D.M.,  xx. 
14.    A.,  Vin.xx.3:X.xvL4. 

Robbing ;  a  thief .  G.L.c,  x.  22.  A.. 
XII.  xviii.:  XVU.  xii^  xxiii. 

To  carry  out,  give  full  development  to ; 
completely.  G.L.C.,  iv.  D.M.,  xiii.  4; 
xxii.;  xxvi.  7 ;  xxvii.  6.  A..  HI.  xviii.; 
xxv.:  VUI.  xxi. 

To  inspect,  to  view.  G.L.c,  x.  5.  A., 
III.  xiv. 


tang     land.    A.,  XIV.  vi. 

$&        A  bathing  tub.    G.L.C  i.  1. 

phcan 
p'an 

f||         Used  for  3? ,  a  kind  of  rush.     D.M^ 

/bo        xx.  3. 
lu 

THE  109th  RADICAL,   g . 

g  (1)  The  eye.  G.L.C.,  vi  3.  A^  HI 
mnh  viii.  1.  (2)  An  index,  steps,  processes 
mu      A.,  XH.  i.  2. 

fljj       The  black  and  white  of  tile  eye  well 

p'an     defined.    A.,  in.  vili.  1. 

jgf        Upright,  straight-forward.   A„  II.  xix.: 

chih  VI.  xvii.:  VHI.  iL;  xvL:  tt  <mL,  sapc 
T§[  *J3 ,  to  pursue  the  straight  path, 
A.,  XV.  xxiv.  2:  XVHL  it  =justiee. 
A.,  XIV.  xxvi.  3. 

jf/Q        Mutually,  one  another.    D3L,  xxx.  S. 

sow?  A.,  XV.  xxxix:  XVIL  ii. 

hsiang 

tJU       Up.  3d  tone.    (1)  To  be  observed.     D. 

teang  M.,  xxxiii.  3.    (2)  To  assist.    A.,  HL  iL 

hsiang  To  act  as  minister  to.  A.,  XIV.  xviii. 
1,  2 :  XVI.  i.  12.  (3)  An  assistant  at 
interviews  of  ceremony.  XI.  xxv.  6.  (4) 
To  lead,  guide,  as  the  blind.  A-,  XV. 
xli.3. 

!$£       To  examine,  inspect.     D.M.,  xx.  4; 

sing     xxxiii.  2.   A.,  I.  iv.:  H.  ix^  IV-  xviL:  XH. 

hsing  iv.  2. 

gj        To  be  deceived.    D.M.,  xx,  13. 

heuen 

hsiian 

JJB        All,  used  absolutely.    G.L.C,  ix.  1 ;  x. 

chung  5.  A.,  I.  vi.:  VL  xxviii.  1 :  et  €mL>  *cspu 
Followed  by  a  noun.    A^  II.  L    Many, 

in  opp.  to  W.    G.L.C.,  x.  19.    A^  XX. 

ii.2. 

flfl        To  look  askance.    D.ML,xuL2. 


too 
tu 


JU1 


chen 
chan 


To  see     DM .,  i.  & 


Intelligent,  perspicacious.    D3I ,  xxxL 


To  look  to.    GX.c.,  iii.4.    With  reve- 
rence.   G.L.C,  x.  4.    A.,  IX.  x  1.    Bg 


A„XX.,  ii.2. 
§£        Blind.    A„  IX.  ix.:  X.  xvi.  2.  =bliod- 
koo      ness.    A.,  XVI.  vi. 
ku 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX   VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


353 


THE  110th  RADICAL.  ^*. 

;p^  To  show  compassion  to.  D.M.,  xx.  14. 
%gg  A.,  XIX.  fii.    ^^.GX.c.viii.  1. 

A.,  XIX.  xix.    (2)   Dignified,  stern  dig- 
nity.   A.,  XV.  xxi.:  XVII.  xvi.  2. 

THE  111th  RADICAL.  ^. 

(1)  An  arrow.  A.,  XV.  vi.  (2)  4^ 
j£,  to  swear,  protest.    A.,  VI.  xxvi. 

A  final  particle,  found  passim.  It  gives 
definiteness  and  decision  to  statements, 
and  is  peculiarly  appropriate  to  a  terse, 
conversational  style.  Where  the  last 
clause  of  a  sentence  or  paragraph  com- 
mences with  j|||,  ^Jp  or  ]^,  the  final 
character  is  nearly  always  A.  It  is 
used  also  after  ^|,  and  |=^jj  ^,  and 
before  the  particles  of  exclamation, — 

^JH  To  know,  to  understand.  Passim. 
*ht  Sometimes=to  acknowledge,  i.e^  to  know 
cbih    and  approve  or  employ.    A.,  I.  i.  3 :  IV. 

xiv.:  VIII.  xvi.:  XI.  xxv.  3 :  tt  aL  sawe. 

=knowledgfc.     D.M.T.,  4,  5. 

£H  Tp.  Sd  tone,  used  for  j^.  Wisdom, 
che  wise,  to  be  wise.  D.M.,  iv-;  vi.;  vii.;  xx. 
ohih     8,  10 ;  xxv.  3 ;  xxxi.  1 ;  xxxii.  3.    A.,  IV. 

i.;  ii.:  V.  xvii.;  xx.:  XVIL  i.  2 ;  iii.;  viiL 

3  ;  xxiv.  2 ;  xxv.  2  :  et  al. 

The  instrument  the  square ;  used  meta- 
A.t  IL  iv. 


km 
chti 


phorically.    G.L.c,  x.  1,  2 
6* 

Short.    A.,VI.ii.:X.vi.5:XI.Ti. 


ttcan 
tuan 

#1 

chin 
chen 

chiao 


How  much  more  (or  lees).     D.M.,  xvi 


4. 


Bold,  firm.    D.M„x.5. 


shih 


m 

rung 
k4eng 


THE  112th  RADICAL.  ^. 

(l)  A  stone,  a  rock.     D.M.,  xxvi.    G. 

L.c,  x.  4.    (2)  ^  p^,  the  name  of  a 
place.    A,  XIV.  xli. 
To  split  open.    D.M.,  xii.  2. 

$ti  fly,  the  appearance  of  a  worthless 

man ;  with  ^,  stupid-like.     A.,  XIII. 
xx.  3 :  XIV.  xiii.  2. 


ts'n 
shih 


lia 


king 
ch'ing 


To  file,  or  plane ;  to  polish.    G.L.C.,  iii. 
4.    A.,  I.  xv.  2. 
Great,— in  size.    G.L.C.,  viii.  2. 

To  grind.  G.L.c.  iii.  4.  A.,  I.  xv.  2 : 
XVII.  vii.  3. 

A  thin  stone,  to  become  thin.  A.,  XVII. 
vii.  3. 

An  instrument  of  music,  a  ringing 
stone,    jjjft  |S:,  A.,  XIV.  xiii.  I. 

THE  113th  RADICAL,  yf;. 


she 
shih 

jSB 

sze 
szu 

at 

shay 
she 


kle 
ch4i 

IB. 

tsoo 
tsu 


Used  synonymously  with  j 
xix.  6.    A.,  HI.  xi. 


D.M., 


To  sacrifice  to.  D.M.,  xviii.  3 ;  xix.  6, 
jjfjJ  4j5,  sacrifices.    D.M.,  xvi.  9. 

The  altars  of  the  spirits  of  the  land. 

A.,  IH.  xxi.:  XI.  xxiv.  3.     g£  ^  ;> 

BT,  a  minister  in  direct  connection  with 

the  emperor.     A.,  XVI.  i.  4.    In  D.M., 

xix.  6,  H[£  is  said  to  be  the  place  of 

sacrifice  to  the  Earth. 

The  spirit,  or  spirits  of  the  earth.    A„ 

Vn.  xxxiv.    Read  che.    Just,  only.  A-, 
XII.  x.  8. 

ijffl  jffij,  to  hand  down  as  if  from  his 

ancestors.    D.M.,  xxx.  1. 


shin 
ah&n 


A  spirit,  spirits.   D.M.,  xvi  4 ;  xxiv.  1. 

A.,  HI.  xii.  1.  ^  jjjjjj,  spiritual  beings, 
spirits.  D.M.,  xvi.  1 ;  xxix.  3,  4.  A.,  VL 
xx:Vni.xxi:XI.xi.  Jt^ifflfc 
the  spirits  of  the  upper  and  lower  worlds, 
A.,  VII.  xxxiv. 

jjjfe       jjg|  jjf£,  happy  omens.    D.AL,  xxiv. 

ts^eang 
chiang 

M    n%  $fr=the  prfe8t  T'°-  A-»  ^  xiv-: 

chuh     XIV.  xx.  2. 
chu 

4&        To  sacrifice,  to  sacrifice  to,  offered  in 

tse       sacrifice.     D.M.,  xiii.  3.    A.,  II.  v.  3; 

chi  xxiv.  1 :  III.  xiii.  1 :  X.  viii.  8,  10 ;  xiii.  2 ; 
xv.  3 :  Xn.  i :  XIX.  1.  A  sacrifice,  sacri- 
fices. A„  III.  xii.  1:XX.  i.  8.  ^  jjjjJ, 
DM.,  xvi.  3. 

Tijjl        Emolument,  revenue.    D.M.,  Sx ;  xvii. 

2,  4  ;  xx.  14.  A.,  n.  xviii.  1, 2 :  XV.  xxxi : 
XVI.  iii ;  xx.  i.  1. 
Calamity,  unhappiness.    DM.,  xxiv. 


Ink 
lu 

SS 

ho 
huo 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


354 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX   vn. 


eking 

m 

fuh 
fu 

m 

u 
ti 

u 

li 


taou 
tao 


A  surname.    A.,  XIV.  ix. 

8eejjj|L 

Happiness.    D.M.,  xxiv. 

To  oppose,  to  meet.    A.,  V.  It.  2. 

The  great,  imperial,  sacrifice.    D3L, 
xix.  6.    A.,  IIL  x.;  xi. 

The  fitness  or  propriety  of  things ;  rules 
of  propriety ;  ceremonies.    Passim. 

To  pray.    A.,  m.  xiii.  2 :  VII.  xxxiv. 

THE  114th  RADICAL,  ffcj. 

The  founder  of  the  Hem  dynasty.    A^ 
Vffl.  xviii.;  xxii^  XIV.  vk  XX.  i.  2. 


k'in 
ch'in 


(1)   Birds.    D.M.,  xxvi.  9.    (2)   ^ 

At,  the  designation  of  one  of  Confucius' 
disciples.   An  L  x.:  XIX.  xxv. 

THE  115th  RADICAL.  ^\ 

%       Prirate.    An  X.  v.  8.    ^t  5j^,  hisj 

sze      privacy,  i.c^  his  conduct  in  prirate.    A«, 
szu      Jl.  ix. 

2p       The  flowering  of  plants.    A>,  IX.  xxL 

sew 
hsiu 

£&       The  name  of  a  measure  of  grain.    A* 

ping     IV.  iii.  1. 

jft       The  season  of  autumn.    D3L,  xix.  8. 

to'eto 

chHu 

JJSj.       A  class,  degree.    A.,  m.xvi. 

jfc'o 

^       The  name  of  a  State.    A.,  XVIII.  ix. 

2.    I&^lF,  name  of  a  Book  in  the 
Shoo-king.    GX.C,  x.  14. 
To  remove,  he  changed.    A*,  XVIL  iii. 


Win 
ch'in 


1g       Rations.    DJt,  xx.  14. 

^j|       TocalL    A„XVI.xiv.    To  speak  of. 
ch'ing  A.,  XVII.  xxiv.  1.    To  speak  of  with  ap- 
ch'cng probation,  to  praise.    A.,  VIII*  i.:  XILt. 
xx.  2 :  XIV.  xxxv.:  XV.  xix.:  XVI.  xii. 


Bff       Up.  3d  tone.    According  to,  equivalent 

chLing  to.    D.M.,  xx.  14. 

ch'&ng 

3^        (1)   The  altars  of  the  spirits  of  the 

g*  grain.  A.  XI.  xxiv.  3.  |£  f|  £ 
gf ,  A.,  XVI  i.  4,  see  j|£.  (2)  A  min- 
ister  of  Yaou  and  Shin.    A^,  XIV.  vi. 

5f§        Paddy;  good  rice.    A^  XVH.  xxi.  4. 

taou 


kea 
chia 

ft 

ku 


muh 
mu 


To  sow  seed ;  husbandry.  A^  XITI.  iv. 
1,2:  XIV.  vi. 

(1)  Grain.  A.,  XVII.  xxi,  3.  JL^* 
the  five  kinds  of  grain.  A.,  XVTIL  ▼.  1* 
(2)  ^emolument.  An  XTV.  i.  (8) 
Good.    A^VIH.xii. 

(1)  Grave ;  profound.    D.&,  xxvi.  la 

^  j^,  GX.c,  iii.  3.    A^  IIL  fi.    (2) 

JftJiS, tne  order  in  winch  the  tablets  of 
ancestors,  and  their  descendants,  were 
arranged  in  the  ancestral  temple.  D. 
M.,  xix.  4. 

THE  116th  RADICAL.  *nj. 


Jgjt  Empty.  ^  ^  £p,  empty-Eke.  A, 
ifcSmp   IX.  vii. 

Up.  3d  tone.    To  be  reduced  to  extre- 
mity, in  want.    A.,  XI.  xvili.  1* 
&>       To  perforate;  dig  through.     A*  XVH. 

chHun  xii. 

ch'uan 

^       ^55* designation.    A,  XVTIL  xi, 

tVh 

t*u 

^       Stopt  up,=unobservant  of  propriety. 

cAA  A.,  XVH.  xxiv. 

chi 

^j£  To  climb  over  a  wall.    So,  Choo  He, 

yu  A,  XVH.  xii. 

jjj|       To«hawt.    ;$£,£££,  OX, 

fceung  xx.  16 ;  xxvi.  9,  inexhaustible.  To  be 
ch^ng  exhausted,  reduced  to  extremity.    A-, 

XV.  i.  2 ;  XX.  u  1. 
|g       Topeep.    |^,totakeaview.  A, 
JfcW  XIX.xxiiL2. 
k'uei 

£gg  (1)  To  steal  A.,  XBL  xviii.;  XV.  xiit 
te'e2  (2)  Private;  an  expression  of  humility, 
chieh  =eto  venture.    A.,  VH.  i. 

4g       The  fire-place;  the  furnace.   A,  IIL 

tsaou   xiiul. 
tsao 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND  PHRASES. 


355, 


leih 

n 


chang 


tung 

m 

k'ei 
chieh 


tic  an 
tuan 


THE  117th  RADICAL.  j£. 

(1)  To  stand.  D.M.,  x.  5.  A„  V.  vii. 
4  :  X.  iii.  2 ;  iv.  2 ;  x.  2 ;  xvii.  1 :  et  al 
(2)  To  establish ;  to  be  established.  D. 
M.,  xx.  13,  16;  xxxii.  1.  A.,  I.  ii.  2:  II. 
iv.  2  :  IV.  xiv.:  VII.  xxviii.  2  :  XIX.  xxv. 
4 :  et  al. 

(1)  To  display,  be  displayed.  *  D.M., 
xx.  6 ;  xxxi.;  xxxiii.  1.  (2)  A^*  Jgr, 
elegant  ways  and  manifestations.  A., 
V.  xii.:  VHI.  xix.  Jji£  j|£,  complete 
and  accomplished.    A.,  V.  xxi.    (3)  i|? 

"j|j ,  name  of  a  cap  of  ceremony.  A., 
XI.  xxv.  6. 

jj|  "^r>  a  youth,  a  lad.  A.,  VH. 
xxviii.  1 :  XI.  xxv.  7:  XIV.  xlvii.  1. 

To  exert  to  the  utmost.  A.,  I.  vii.:  IX. 
x.  3.    To  exhaust.    A.,  IX.  vii. 

(1)  A  beginning  or  end,  extremities. 
D.M..vi.  A.,  IX.  vii.  ^ft^,  to  make 
a  beginning.  D.M.  xii.  4.  (2)  Doctrines. 
A.,  II.  xvi.  (3)  The  name  of  a  robe  of 
ceremony.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  6. 

THE  118th  RADICAL,  ffi. 

jjfiZ       To  smile,  to  laugh.    A.,  HI.  viii.  1 : 

seaou   XTV.  xiv.  1,  2 :  XVH.  iv.  2. 
hsiao 

^       (1)  A  class ;  degrees.    D.M.,  xx.  5.  (2) 

tdng    A  step  of  a  stair.    A.,  X.  iv.  5. 

t£ng 

Jg       To  reply.    A.,  XTV.  iv. 

id 
ta 

^j|       (1)  A  tablet  of  bamboo,    D.M.,  xx.  2. 

uHh     (2)  To  whip.    A.,  VL  xiii. 

ts'e 

4^       A  bamboo  vessel.   i|-  ^&  ^     A  , 

ihaou  men  who  are  0ere  utensils.    A.,  XIII. 
shao    xx.  4. 

^f       To  reckon,  take  into   account.     A., 

twan   XIII.  xx.  4. 

hsiian 

'pW       (1)  A  division,  what  is  regularly  de- 
toe?     fined.    DM.,  i.  4.     A.,   XVIII.  vii.  5. 
chieh  (2)  An  emergency,  a  decisive  time.    A., 
VIII.  vi.    (3)  To  regulate.    A.,  I.  ii.  2. 
=to  economize.    A.,  I.  v.     To  discrimi- 
nate.   A.,  XVI.  v.    (4)  The  capitals  of 
pillars.    A.,  V.  xvii. 
^       A  surname.    ^  ^,  A„  HI.  xxii.  2, 

*Z  3'    #  #•  A"  m-  xxil  *>  2>  » :  XIV. 
x.  3  j  xvii.  1,  2 ;  xviii.  2,  3. 


Ice 
chi 


tiili 
tu 


tan 


facet 
kuei 


keen 
chien 


pe'en 
pieu 


The  name  of  a  State.     A.,  XVHL  i  1. 


Liberal.  D.M.  xvii.  3.  Firm  and  sin- 
cere ;  firmly  and  sincerely.  D.M.,  xx.  19, 
20 ;  xxxiii.  6.  A.,  VIII.  xiii.  1 :  XI.  xx.: 
XV.  v.2:XIX.ii.;vi. 

A  small  round  bamboo  basket.     A., 

VI.  ix.    What  is  said  of  it  there,  in  the 
note,  is  wrong. 

A  basket  for  carrying  earth.    A.,  DC. 

xviii. 

(1)  Hasty.  A.,  V.  xxi.  (2)  An  easy 
negligence.  A.,  VI.  i.  2,  3.  D.M.,  xxxiii. 
1.    (3)  To  examine.    A.,  XX.  i.  3. 

A  sacrificial  vessel,  for  holding  fruits 
and  seeds.    A.,  VHI.  iv.  2. 


THE  119th  RADICAL.    ^. 


!jj£  Rice  in  the  husk.     A.,  VI.  iii.   1,   8. 

suh  =revenue.    A.,  XH.  xi.  3. 

hsu 

ffi  (1)  Rice  finely  cleaned.     A.,  X.  viii.  1. 

tsing  (2)  Minute,  exact.    D.M.,  xxvii.  6. 
ching 

gj  Excrement.=dirty.    A.,  V.  ix.  1. 


fun 
fen 


leang 
liang 


Provisions.    A-  XV.  i.  2. 


kexo 
chiu 

y« 


fa 

hung 

ft 

cJiow 
chou 


shun 
ch'un 


na 
na 


THE  120th  RADICAL.  .gL. 
A  name.    A.,  XTV.  xvii.  1 ;  xviiL  1. 

(1)  To  bind,  to  restrain.  A.,  VI.  xxv.: 
IX.  x.  2:  Xn.  xv.  J£(  $J,  to  use  re- 
straint, be  cautious.  A,  IV.  xxii.  (2) 
Straitened.  A.,  VII.  xxv.  3.  =Poverty, 
straitened  circumstances.    A.,  IV.  ii. 

Red.    A.,  X.vi.2. 

Epithet  of  the  last  emperor  of  the  Shang 

dynasty.    A.,  XIV.  xx.     ffjfe  ^,  GX. 

c,  ix.  10. 

(1)  Silken,  made  of  silk.   A„  IX.  iii.  1. 

(2)    Harmonious.     A.,  in.  xxiii.     (3) 
Singleness.    D.M.,  xxvi.  10. 

To  make  to  enter.  D.M.,  vii.  To 
present.    A.,  XX.  ii.  3. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


.356 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND    PHRASES. 


INDEX    VII. 


MOO 

tu 


sih 

hsi 
t$zt 

tszu 


White.  A.,X.  vi.  4.  The  plain  ground, 
before  colours  are  laid  on.  A.,  III.  viii. 
1,  2.  In  D.M.  xiv.  1,  2,  it  seems  to  mean 
— the  present  condition. 

For  2&,  to  inquire  into.    D3L,  xt  1. 

Reddish,  purple.    A.,  X  vi.  2:  XVII. 

xviii. 

i^Q        Small,  minute.    A.,  X.  viii  1. 

se 

hsi 

£&        A  sash  or  girdle,  with  the  ends  hang- 

shin     ing  down.    A.,  X.  xiii.  3  :  XV.  v.  4. 

shen 

J^U"        Of  a  deep  purple  colour.     A.,  X.  vi.  1. 

lean 

%$        (1)  An  end.    $$  #ft.    G.L.t.,  3.  D. 

chung  M.,  xxv.  (2)  To  be  brought  to  a  con- 
clusion, to  succeed.  P.M.,  x.  20.  To 
come  to  an  end,  to  terminate.  A.,  XX. 
i.  1.  (3)  Death,  the  dead.  ^JJL  $t  to 
attend  carefully  to  the  funeral  xjtes  to 
parents.  A.,  I.  ix.  (4)  Ferpctual.  D.M., 
xxix.  6.  Perpetually.  A.,  XVII.  xxvi. 
$C  ^,  never.    G.L.c,  iii.  4.      jfc$ 

U ,  the  whole  day.  A.,  II.  ix :  XV.  xvi ; 
xxx.:  XVII.  xxxii.  $fc  Jsp,  all  one's 
life,  continually.    A.,  IX.  xxvi.  3:  XV. 

**™-  $$  fk  £,  |PJ'  the  **»**  0f  a 
meal.    A.,  IV.  v.  3. 

^5        To  be  broken  oflf.     D.M.,  xx.  14.    A., 

tsfuM    XX.  i.  7.  =to  be  without.    A.,  IX  iv. 

chueh  To  te  exhausted.   A.,  XV.  12.    g  j£j&, 

to  cut  oneVself  off  from.  A.,  XIX.  xxiv. 

$£        □  ^« ,  smartnesses  of  speech.   A.,  V. 

keg       iv.  2. 
chieh 

$J    $>M=M't*tten'  A'v-il- 

hsieh 

}g£        Rude,  rudeness.    A.,  VIII.  ii.:  XVII. 

keaou  viii.  3. 

chiao 

2&&1        The  colouring— ornamental  portion — of 

hewn   a  picture.    An  III.  viii.  1. 

haiian 

j&fe       Made  of  a  fine  texture.    A.,  X.  vi.  3. 

c/i'e 
ch'i 

&k       Of  a  coarser  texture.    A.,  X.  vi  3. 

keih 

chi 

ffij|       To  use  a  net.    A  „  VII.  xxvi. 

kany 


&h  (1)    A  string  or  strap,  attached  to  a 

guy  carriage.    A^X.  xviii.  1.    (2)   To  make 

sui  happy.    A.,  XIX.  xxv.  4. 

jg  To  measure.      |p[  £ji  ^  ||§\  the 

hei  principle  of  reciprocity.     G.L.C.,  x-  I,  2. 
hsieh 

J^  (tt  Standard,  invariable  rules.  D3L, 

king  XX.  12,   15;  xxxii.  1.     As   a  verb,    see 


ching 


(2)   To  strangle.    A,  XIV.  xvii. 


3. 


Jte  A  particle,  initial, =but,  only,  and  used 

irei"  as  the  copula.    G.L.C.,  ii.  3 ;  x.  4.     D.M^ 
xxvi.  10.    A.,  III.  ii. 

&S  4^$^»  *  member  of  the  Mang  family. 

ch*6  A.,  XIV.  xii.;  xiiL 

ch*o 

$TO  ^^»toa(,JU3fc-    DM.,  xxxii.  1. 

lun 

&)£  The  end  of  a  cocoon ;  a  beginning ;  an 

sen  enterprise.    D.M.,  xviii.  2. 

hsu 

■&VL  $Hl  EE>  bright  and  unceasing.   GJLc^ 

tseih  iii.  3. 

chi 

Wt  &H  Wt'  th<?  twitterinS  of  a  bipd-     G* 

tneen  L.C.,  iii.  2. 

mien 

£{£  (1)  To  let  go,  not  to  restrict.    A„  IX. 

tsung    vi.  2.    (2)  Although.    A.,  IX.  xi.  3. 

jj&  H   g,    attended    to    their   several 

tsung    duties.    A.,  XIV.  xliii.  2. 

ffiiJ  Of  a  puce  colour.    A.,  X  vi.  1. 


tsow 
tsou 


(3 


A  black  rope, 
i.  1. 


,  bonds.    A.,  V. 


£j§        Of  a  black  colour.    A^  X.  vi.  4 :  X  VIL 

tsze      vii.  8. 
tsztt 

Error,  mistake.    D.M.,  xxix.  3.    Low. 


I 


mew     3d  tone.  * 

niiu 

&9t       To  be  hung  up,  suspended.  D.M^  xxvi 

/<e        9.    A.,  XVII.  vii.  4. 

hsi 

j^       A  name.    A.,  XVHL  ix.  2. 

leaou 
liao 

i&       To  paint,  lay  on  various  colours.    A-, 

Away    III.  viii.  2. 
hui 

3^  To  draw  out,  unfold.  A.,  IX  xxm. 
]&£  "foj,  flowing  on,  drawn  out,  spjkea 
of  music.    A.,  HI.  xxiii. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


yih 


INBEX  VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES. 


357 


wan 


ke 
die 


tsitvtn 
tsuan 


chueh 


Up.  2d  tone.   Quilted  with  hemp.    A., 
IX.  xx vi.  1. 

To  connect,  continue.    D.M.,  xix.  2; 

xx.  14.  A.,  II.  xxiii.  2 :  XX.  i.  7.  |$f  ^, 

to  make  the  rich  more  rich.    A.,  VI.  iii. 
2. 

To  continue.    D.M.,  xviii.  2. 


TnE  121st  RADICAL.  fe. 
A  name.    A.,  XVIII,  ix.  2. 


THE  122d  RADICAL. 


m 


m 

wang 

& 

Man 

koo 
ku 

n 

t*ny 
tsui 


fa 


pa 


VamJ 


kaou 
kao 


Labour  lost.    A.,  IT.  xv.    To  lose,  be 

without.  A.,  VI.  xvii.  To  be  entrapt, 
befooled.    A.,  VI.  xxiv. 

Seldom.    A.,  IX.  i 

A  net,  for  catching  fish.    D.M.,  vii. 

A  crime ;  offence.    A.,  V.  i.  I :  XX.  i. 

3.    ^  SI,  to  offend  against.     A.,  III. 
xiii.  2. 
To  pnnish.    JfjJ  •§? ,  punishments ;  as 

distinguished,  -§K  is  a  fine.    A.,  XIII. 
iii.  6. 
To  cease ;  to  give  over.    A.,  IX.  x.  3. 

THE  12Sd  RADICAL.  i£. 

A  sheep,  or  goat.    G.L.C.,  x.  22.     A., 

III.  xvii   1,  2 :  XII.  viii.  3  :  XIII.  xviii. 
Goodness,  excellence,  beauty,  excellent 

quality.     G.L.C.,  viii.  I.    A.,  I.  xii.  1: 

IV.  i.:  VI.  xiv.:  VIII.  xi.;  xxi.:  XII.  xvi.: 

XIII.  viii.:  XIX.  xxiii.  3.  j£  ife,  the 
five  excellent  qualities  of  government. 
A.,  XX.  ii.  1.  Beautiful,  elegant.  A., 
HI.  viii.;  xxv.:  IX.  xii. 

(1)  A  lamb,  or  kid.    A.,  X.  vL  4,  11. 

(2)  Hjr  3E,  the  designation  of  one  of 
Conf.  disciples.    A.,  XI.  xxiv. 
Shame,  disgrace.    A.,  XIII.  xxii.  2. 


8010 
SOU 

n 

k'enn 
clriin 


(1)  A  flock,=a  class ;  all  of  a  class.  D. 
M.,  xx.  12,  13.  A.,  XV.  xvi.:  XVIII.  vi. 
4.  (2)  Sociable,  to  be  sociable.  A.,  XV. 
xxi.:  XVII.  ix.  4. 


jE  (1)  What  is  right,  righteousness.  G.L. 
e  cux.  22,  23.  D.M.,  xx.  5.  A..  I-  xiii.: 
i        II.  xxiv.  2:  et  passim.    (2)  Meaning.    D. 


kdng 
keng 


if1 

ytt 


M.,  xix.  6. 
Soup.    A.,  X.  viii.  4. 

THE  124tu  RADICAL.  $J. 
A  surname.    A.,  XIV.  ix. 


e 

f 

seih 
hsi 


A  famous  archer  of  antiquity.     A., 
XIV.  vi. 

To  practise.    A.,  I.  i.  1 ;  iv.    By  prac- 
tice.   A.,  XVII.  ii. 


q|0        To  fly  round,  or  backwards  and  for- 

ts'cang  wards.    A.,  X.  xviii.  1. 

ch'iang 

<fj=£        To  be  united,  in  concord.    D.M.,  xv.  2. 

^54tl»  aPP^io^  *°  music.    A.,  III.  xxiii. 

Wings.     §1  iffjt  wing-like.     A.  X 
iii.  3 ;  iv.  5. 


heih 
hsi 


hwu 
lao 

? 

k'uou 
k'ao 


hay 
che 


TnE  125th  RADICAL,  jfe. 

(1)  Old,  to  be  old  ;  the  old.     G.L.c.  x„ 

1.  A.,  V.  xxv.  4  :  X  III.  iv.  1:  XIV.  xl vi.: 
XVI.  vii.:  XVIII.  iii.  Old  age.  A.,  VII. 
xviii.  2.  To  treat  as  old.  G.L.c.,  x.  1. 
(2)  A  chief  officer.    A.,  XIV.  xii. 

To  examine.  D.M.,  xxix.  3.  To  ex- 
amine and  determine.    D.M.,  xxviii.  2. 

(1)  He  (or  they)  who ;  this  (or  that), 
these  (or  those),  who  (or  which).  It  is 
put  after  the  words  (verbs,  adjectives, 
nouns),  and  clauses  to  which  it  belongs. 
G.L.T.,  4:  c,  x.  4,  9,  18,  19,  21.  23.  A  , 
XIX.  iii.;  iv.;  xii.  2;  xxii.  2:  et  passim. 
(2)  It  stands  at  the  end  of  the  first  mem- 
ber of  a  clause  or  sentence,  when  the 
next  gives  a  description  or  explanation 
of  the  subject  of  the  other,  terminated 
generally  by  the  particle  4jl,  but  not 
always.  G.L.C.,  vi.  1  ;  vii.  1 ;  ix.  1  ;  x.  7. 
DM,  xix.  2  ;  xxv.  I,  2.  3.  A,  XII.  xvi. 
et  ah,  sape.  (3)  -^  ^k  together,  at  the 
end  of  the  first  member  of  a  sentence, 
resume  a  previous  word,  and  lead  on  to 
an  explanation  or  account  of  it.    D.M.,  i. 

2,  4  ;  xx.  3.  A.,  XII  xx.  5,  6.  .The  case 
in  A.,  XT.  xxv.  10,  is  different.  (4)  ;4& 
•tfl ,  often  occurs  at  the  end  of  sentences, 

preceded,  tho'  sometimes  not,  by  TV. 
G.L.C.,  ix.  2 ;  x.  20.    DM.,  xxix.  C.     A., 

Digitized  by  VjOOQlC 


858 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX  VIL 


XVI11.  vii.  4 :  XIX.  xvik  et  at,  s<epe.— 
In  all  these  cases  the  proper  meaning  of 

j3|\  as  in  case  (1)  is  apparent.    But  (5) 

we  find  it  where  that  can  hardly  be 
traced,  and  where  sometimes  we  might 
translate  it  by  one  or  that,  and  at  other 

times  by  so,  such  a  thing,  with  a ».  but 

there  are  cases  where  it  cannot  be  trans- 
lated. G.L.T.,  7  :  c,  ix.  4.  A.,  VI.  ii.:  xii.: 
XI.  vi.:  XII.  viii.  2,  3:  XVI.  i.  5;  xiii. 
4 :  XVII.  vi.:  XIX.  xxv.  4.    (6)  It  forms 

adverbs  with  ^  and  "jjj\    A.,  XVH. 

vii.  2 :  xvi.:  et  al  Observe  A.,  IX.  xvi.: 
IILx. 

THE  126m  RADICAL.  [?jj. 

|7jj        Passim.    A  conjunction.    (1)  And.  G. 

mrh  L.T.,  2,  5 :  c,  ix.  2,  4,  6,  7,  8.  D.M.,  i.  4 ; 
ii.  2 ;  xx.  6,  9,  14,  17.  A.,  I.  i.  1 ;  ii.  2  ; 
iv.;  r.;  vi.;  vii.:  xii.  2 :  et  «/.,  sa>pissitne. 

(2)  And  yet.  G.L.t„  7 :  c,  iii.  2 ;  vii.  2; 
x.  13, 1 4.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  1, 3, 4 :  et  al.  sa>pis~ 
sime.  The*  and  yet'  is  often  nearly,  or 
altogether,  =but.  A.,  Il.xiv  :  VII.  xxvij 
XIII.  xxv.;  xx  vi.:  et  «/.,  sape.  It  may 
often  be  translated  by  if.  A*  III.  xxii 
3:  VII.  xi.;Xxv.  1,2;  x\x.  2;  xxxi.:  it  al. 

(3)  It  is  used  idiomatically,  or  for  the 
rhythm,  after  adverbs.  A.,  XI.  xxv.  4: 
Xi V.  xx.  1 ;  xlii.  2  :  XVII.  iv.  2  :  et  al 

ffi ffii-  A> x,x- xv- l-  w /VfUr % 

and  before  a  verb,  it  forms  the  passive 
of  that  verb.  A.,  VIII.  i.:  XIX.  xxiv.; 
xxv.  3:  et  al.     (">)   ~or.     A.,  XII.  i.   1. 

(6)  [jffl  ^  |7f)  ^,  henceforth,  both 
now  and  hereafter.  A.,  VI.  iii.  (7)  It 
is  often  followed  by  g|,  jj^   ^  g^ 

^.    D.M.,  xxv.  3.   A.,  II.  xv.  2:  XIV. 

xlv.:  et  al.  (8)  Used  for  Y^T,  you,  D.M., 
ix.  2.      (9)  A.,  IX.  xxx.  1,  a  mere  ex- 

pletive.  tiffilBro-  A.,  XVIII. 
v.  1. 

THE  127th  RADICAL,  ^fc. 

s^f        To  plough  ;  to  do  field-work.    A.,  XV. 

kantj    xxxi.:  XVIII.  vi.  1. 
keng 

Two  together.    A.,  XVIII.  vi.  1. 


To  cover  the  seed.    A.,  XVIH.  vi.  3. 


gow 
ou 

y.w 
yu 


THE  128th  RADICAL.  Jf . 

I§f        (1)   The  ear.     A.,  II.  iv.  5  :  VIH.  xv. 
urh       (2)  A  final  particle.  =  simply.  A.,  XVII. 
iv.  4.    (3;  An  expletive.    A-  VI.  xii. 


It 

tan 


shina 
sheng 


tsen 
chu 


trdtn 
wen 


u><Jn 
wfin 


ts'ung 


thing 
sheng 


<4«'«y 


szu 


pih 
jou 

# 

hsiao 

he  Hi 

hsi 


Yielding  pleasure.    D.M.,  xy.  2. 

The  sending  of  envoys  to  one  another, 

or  to  court,  by  the  princes  of  the  empire. 
D.M.,  xx.  14. 

Intelligent,  perspicacious.     GX.C  x. 

11.  D.M.,  xxxii.  3.  Sage,  possessing 
the  highest  knowledge  and  excellence. 

IE  ^g",  a  sage.    D.M.,  xi.  3 ;  xxxi.  1. 

A.,  VI.  xxviii.  1 :  VII.  xxxiii.:  IX.  vi.  1, 2. 

To  collect,  be  collected.    G.L.C,  x.  9. 

3P1  is&>  *°  collect  imposts.    GX.c,  x. 
22.    An  XI.  xvi.  1. 
To  hear ;  to  become  acquainted  with  by 

report.  Passim,  gi|  ffjj  ^  f^f.  to 
hear  and  not  understand.  G l^c^  viL  2. 
D M^  xvi.  2. 

Low.  3d  tone.  To  be  heard  of,  notoriety. 
A.,  XII.  xx.  3,  4,  6. 

Quick  in  apprehension.  D.M.,  xxxi.  1 ; 

xxxii.  3.  To  hear  distinctly.  A.,  XVI. 
x. 

A  sound.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  6.  A ,  XVTL 
iv.  1.  =Songs.  A,  XV.  x.  G:  XV1L 
xv*u«    2^  /o>  fame.    D.M.,  xxxi.  4. 

To  hear,  to  listen  to.    G.L.c,  iv.:  vii  2. 

D3I,  xvi.  2.    AM  V.  ix.  2:  XII.  i.2; 

xiii.:  XVI.  x.:  XVII.  xiv.    |jj|  ^,  to 

receive  instructions  from.  A.,  XIV.  xlhi. 
2. 

THE  129th  RADICAL,  ^L 


(1)  To  expose  a  corpse.  A.,  XIV. 
xxxviii.  1.  (2)  Unrestrained,  a  disregard 
of  smaller  matters.  A.,  XVII.  xvi.  2. 
(3).  A  shop,  a  stall  for  goods.  A,  XIX. 
vii. 

TILE  130th  RADICAL.  |^J. 

Flesh,  meat.  A.,  VTI.  xiii.:  X.  viii.  3, 
4,  8 ;  xv.  2. 

~^\tt*  not  equal  to,  degenerate,  worth- 
iest.   D.M.,  iv.;  xii.  2. 

The  liver,    it^fjj^p,  bis  lungs  and 

liver,   =his  inward  thought*.      GJLc, 
vi.  2. 

A  name.    A.,  XVII.  vii.  1,2. 


The  lungs.    Sec  above. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX   VII. 


CHINESE    CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


359 


To  be  nourished.    D.M.,  i.  5 ;  xxx.  3. 
*£»      To  nourish,  D.M.,  xxii.     ^tfe^^fc 
|=}  ,  the  tranforming  and  nourishing  of 

Heaven  and  Earth.  DMn  xxvii.2 ;  xxxii. 
1. 

B4l         ^£   §*£  ^  t^>  earnestIy  8incere 
cAun     was  his  perfect  humanity.    D.AL,  xxxii. 
2. 


chen 

J3C 

ye* 


Fat.    A„  VI.  iii.  2. 

The  shoulder.    A.,  XIX.  xxiii.  2. 


keen 
trliien 


fl^        At  ease.    Some  say,  corpulent.    G.L. 

ptcan    c,  vi.  4. 
pan 

Jftfe        The  arm.    A.,  VII.  xv. 

kwang 
kuang 

BjK        The  leg  below  the  knee,  the  shank. 

hiug     A.,  XIV.  xlvi. 
hsing 

nfe  To  be  able;  can.  As  the  auxiliary, 
nang  passim.  It  is  often  used  absolutely; — 
nung  to  can.  D.M.,  iii-;  ix.;  xi.  3 ;  xiii.  4.  A., 
XI.  xxv.  6 :  XIV.  xxx.:  et  «/.,  The  able, 
competent.  D.M.,  xx.  14.  A.,  II.  xx.: 
et  «/.  =the  having  power,  ability.  A., 
VIII.  v.:  IX.  vi.  1,\  3 :  et  al. 

(1)  Dried  slices  of  flesh.  A.,  VII.  vii. 
(2)  To  cultivate.  In  G.L.c,  and  D.M., 
Passim.    ^  Jp,  Q  f^|,  to  cultivate 

one' 8- self.    To  repair.    D.M.,  xix.  3.   To 
reform.    A.,  XII.  xxi.  1,  2.     To  restore. 

A.,  XX.  i.  6.    flff  tftj,  A  ,  XIV.  ix. 


sew 
Lsiu 


foo 
fu 


foo 
fu 


Dried  meat.    A.,  X.  viii.  1. 


(1)  The  skin.  A.,  XII.  vi.  (2)  A  name. 
A.,  XIX.  xix. 


Vin9 

P 

ting 
hsing 


The  breast.     JJjfc  HB,  to  wear  on  the 
breast.    D.M.,  viii. 
Raw,  undressed  meat.    A.,  X.  xiii.  1. 


Minced,  cut  small.    A.,  X.  viii.  1. 


kwae 
kuai 


THE  131st  RADICAL,  gf . 

Pf        A  minister ;  the  correlate  of  3?j  .    G. 

chin      Lx,  x.  14,  22.     D.M.,  xiii.  4;  xx.  8,  12, 

<^n    13,  14.     A.,  III.  xix.:  et  scvpe.      -fc   gf. 

D.M.,  xx.  12,  13.  A.,  XI.  xxiii.  1 :  XVUI. 


tsang 


lin 


tsze 
tszu 


ch'ow 
ch'ou 


kuou 
kao 


m 

che 
chih 


chih 


x  l|[|5\l>.M.,xx.l2,  13.  -J|.gf, 
A.,  XI.  xxiii.  3.  ^  gf ,  A.,  XVI.  ii. 
To  play— be— the  minister.  B  B ,  A., 
XII.  xi.  2,  3.     ^  gf ,  GX.c,  iii.  3. 

(1)  Good,   thoroughly  good.     A.,  IX. 

xx  vi.  2.  3.  (2)  A  surname.  A.,  V.  xviii.: 
XV.  xiii. 

To  oversee ;  to  draw  near  to,  on  the 
part  of  a  superior.  Spoken  of  govern- 
ment.   D.M.,  xxxi.  1.     A.,  II.  xx.:  VI.  i. 

3.  Eg||,A.,III.xxvi.  ge^,A., 
VII.  x.  3.  (^  frjC,  A.,  Y1U.  iii.  |jg 
^  |jj,  A.,  VIII.  vi. 

THE  132d  RADICAL,   g. 

(I)  From,  as  a  preposition.    G.L.T.,  6  ; 

c,  xiv.  23.  D.M.,  xv.  I ;  xvii.  4 ;  xxi.  1  ; 
xxviii.  1.  A.,  1.  i.  2:  IV.  xvii.:  et  ah, 
swpe.  Asa  noun,  the  origin,  source.  D. 
M.,  xxxiii.  1.     (2)  Self,  of  all  persons. 

Generally  joined  with   verbs,    &    114, 

EJ  1f|?,  &c,  self-use,  self-cultivation, 
&e.  G.L.C.,  i.  4;  iii.  4  ;  vi.  1.  D.M.,  xiv. 
2 ;  xxv.  1,  3.  A.,  XII.  xxiii.  1 :  XIV. 
xviii.  3 ;  xxx.  2. 

Smell,  a  smell.  G.L.c,  vi.  1.  D.M., 
xxxiii.  6.    A.,  X.  viii.  2. 

an  ancient  statesman.     A., 
XII.  xxii.  I. 


THE  133d  RADICAL.    :g. 

(1)  To  come,  to  arrive  at ;  sometimes 
^to,  till.  G.L.C.,  x.  22.  DM.,  xxxi.  4. 
A.,  VIII.  xviii.  2  ;  xxix.:  IX.  viii.:  XVIII. 

vii.  4.  |tEE  ffi  yf\  31,  a  man  will 
do  anything  bad.  G.L.C.,  vi.  2.  A., 
XVII.  xv.  3.    ^  "t^,  down  to  ;  to  come 

to,  as  to.  G.L.T.,  G.  A.,  II.  vii.:  IIL 
xxiv.:  V.  xviii.  2  VI.  xii.;  xxii.:  VII. 
xiii.:  VIII.  xii.  1.  (2)  Most,  making  the 
superlative  degree.  G.L.T.,  1 ;  c,  iii.  4. 
D.M.,  xxii.;  xxiii.;  xxiv.;  xxvi.  1 ;  xxvii. 
5  :  xxxi.  1 ;  xxxvi.  1.  A-,  VIII.  i.;  xx.  4  : 
XIII.  iv.  3.  (3)  The  highest  degree ;  to 
exist  in  the  highest  degree.  GX.C,  v. 
D.M.,  iii.;  xii.  2,  4  ;  xix.  5 ;  xxxiii.  6.  A., 
VI.  xxvii.  To  become  complete.  G, 
L.t.,  5. 

(1)  To  carry  to  the  utmost,  to  per- 
fection. G.L.T.,  4  D.M.,  i.  5;  xxiii.; 
xxvii.  6.    A.,  VIII.  xxi.:  XIX.  iv.:  vii. 

ft  Sjfr,  to  exert  one's- self  to  the  utmost. 


3G0 


CHINESE    CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


INDEX    TIT. 


(uie 
t'ai 


r. 


yu 


yu 


yu 
yu 

hing 
hsing 


keu 
chii 


Ah  XIX.  xvii  To  be  carried  to  per- 
fection.     A.,  XIX.  xiv.     Observe    $jfr 

$.    A..XX.U.3.     (2)^^,^ 

^1 ,  to  devote  one's  person,  life.    A.,  I. 
vii.:  XIX.  i 
Yr5  <8£,  a  surname.    A.,  VI.  xii 

THE  134th  RADICAL.  £j. 

(1)   ^  $|,  an  instant.    D.M.,  i.  2. 

(2)  fi£j  £fr ,   the  name  of  a  small  State. 

AsXVI.i. 

Low.  2d  tone.    (1)  With,  along  with ; 

to  be  with,  to  associate  with.  G.L.c, 
iii.  3 ;  x.  15.  D.M.,  xxii.  1 ;  xxiii.  As  I. 
iv.;  vii.;  xv.  3:  et  passim.  (2)  And.  A., 
IX.  i ;  ix.:  XI.  xxiii.  2.  4,  6:  et  aL  Some- 
times it  must  be  translated  by  or.    A., 

XI.  xt.:  et  al.    (3)  Followed  by  j£,  and 

by  |=£  Jf>,  than.     GX.c,  x.  22.    A., 

IV.  iv.  3  ;  xiii.  1  :  VII.  xxxv.:  IX.  xi.  3.: 
XVIII.  vi.  3.  (4)  To  give  to.  A^  I.  x. 
1 :  V.  xxiii.:  VI.  iii.  1.  3,  4.       XX.  ii. 

8.    (f>)  To  grant,  concede  to,  allow.    As 

V.  viii.  3:  VII.  xxviii  2:  XI.xxv.  7.  (6) 

To  wait  for.    A.,  XVII.  i.  2,  j^gj  Jf, 
^  fg.     (7)    Observe  §£  J£,    A. 
IV.  x.;  IP|  M  £  ^;  A.,  IX.  xxiii., 
&^f&M>  A.,  XVIII.  vi.  4. 
(1)   Low.  1st  tone.     A  final  particle, 

sometimes  interogative,  sometimes  of  ad- 
miration, and  sometimes  of  doubt  or  hesi- 
tancy. As  interrogative,  it  generally 
implies  that  the  answer  will  be  in  the 
affirmative.  As  indicating  doubt  or  he- 
sitancy, we  find  it  preceded  by  other 
final  particles.  It  is  followed  also  by 
other  particles  of  exclamation.  D.M s  vi.; 
x.  2  ;  xvii.  1 ;  xxvii.  7.  As  I  ii  2 ;  x.  1, 
2  ;  xv.  2  :  et  a/.,  passim.  Observe  A s  V. 
ix.  1,  2 :  XII.  xxviii.  2.    (2)  M  flil.  the 

appearance  of  dignity  and  satisfaction. 
A,  X.  ii.  2. 

Low.  3d  tone.    Sharing  in :  concerned 

with.  D.Ms  xii.  2.  As  III.  xii.  2:  VIII. 
xviii.:  IX.  v.  3 :  XIII.  xiv. 

(1)  To  rise.    A.,  XV.  i.  2.  =to  become. 

G.L.C.,  ix.  3 ;  x.  1.    So,  followed  by  ^. 

As  Vin.  ii.  2.  To  be  produced.  D.M., 
xxvi.  9.  To  be  aroused,  stimulated.  A.t 
VIU.  viii.  1 :  XVII.  ix.  2.  (2)  To  flour- 
ish. D.M.,  xxiv.  As  XIII.  iii.  6.  To 
make  to  flourish ;  to  raise.  D.M.,  xxvii. 
7.    A.,  XIII.  xv.  1,  3:  XX.  i.  7. 

(1)  To  raise ;  employ,  promote.   G.L.c, 

x.  1.    D.M.,  xx.  14.    AM  II.  xix.;  xx.: 

XII.  xxii.  3,  4,  G:  XIII.  ii.   1,2:  XV. 


chiu 


ft 

she 
»h£ 


shay 
she 


Sr 

shoo 
shu 


xxii.:  XX.  i.  7.  To  present :  set  forth  (in 
discourse).  A.,  VII  viii  Passive,  to  lie 
established.  D.Ms  xx.  2.  (2)  To  rwe. 
As  X.  xviii.  1. 

Old     G.L.c,  ii.  3.     A.,  V.  xviii.  1 ; 

xxii.:  XI.  xiii.  2 :  XVII.  xxi.  3.  j££^j|. 
«=old  friends  or  ministers.     As  VIIL  ii 

2:  xviii.  x.   |§  ;&**:&. 

THE  135th  RADICAL.  jj". 
The  tongue,    A„  XII.  viii.  2. 


Up.  2d  tone,  for  j$>.    (1)  To  reject. 

As  VI.  iv.  To  neglect.  A.,  XIII.  ii.  2. 
To  leave  unemployed.  A.,  VII.  x.  To  lay 
aside.  As  XI.  xxv.  7.  To  omit :  decline. 
As  XVI.  i.  9.  (2)  To  cease;  give  over. 
As  IX.  xvi. 

*=econoroy.    G.L.C.,  x.  19. 


THE  136th  RADICAL.  $)$. 


3jg        An  ancient  emperor.   D.M.,  vi:  xTii  1. 

**"*     A.,  VIII.  xviii.:  et  aL     3&  ^p,  G.L.C, 
ix.  4.    D.M.,  xxxi.  1.    As  V1L  xxviii : 
XVI.  xiv. 
(1)  Pantomimes.    A.,  III.  i.:  XV.  x.  5. 


woo 
wu 


# 


yun 
yiin 


(2) 


*,  =the  rain  altars.    A^  XL 


xxv.  7 :  XIL  xxi.  1. 

THE  137th  RADICAL.  ^Sj% 

A  ship,  a  boat.    D.M„  xxxi  4.    A, 

chow    XIV.  vi 
chou 

THE  139th  RADICAL.  ^. 

TO         (l)   Colour,  appearance,   especially  as 

sfnh  variously  seen  in  the  countenance;  the 
she  countenance.  G.L.c,  vi.  1.  D -M-.  xxxiii. 
6.     A.,  I.  iii.:  II.  viii.:  V.^xviii^-  et  al.  strpe. 

A.,  VIII.  iv.  3 :  X.  v.  2 :  XVL 

vi  |pg  |S ,  to  give  the  proper  finish. 
(2)  Beauty,  and  the  desire  for  its  enjoy- 
ment. D.M.,  xx.  14.  A.,  L  vii:  IX. 
xvii:  XV.  xii:  XVI.  vii. 


THE  140th  RADICAL,  ijllk 

In  some  copies  for  fej.    To  weed.  A+ 
XVIII.  vii.  1. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


M& 


INDEX   VII. 


CHINESE    CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


361 


iffi  Grain  springing,  or  growing  up.     G. 

ritraoH  L.T.,  viii.  2.    A.,  IX.  xxi. 


nnuo 

Vi 

k**w 
kou 


jo 


jin 

jen 

t*zu 


(1)  If,  if  indeed.  G.L.c,  ii.  1.  D.M., 
xxvii.  5;  xxviii.  4;  xxxii.  3.  A«  IV.  iv.: 
VII.  xxx.  3:  et  ah  (2)  Improper,  irregu- 
lar. A.,  XIII.  iii.  7.  (3)  Indicating  in- 
difference.   A.,  XIII.  viii. 

(1)  As,  as  if.    G.L.c,  x.  14.    A.,  VIII. 

v.    (2)  As,  like,  equal  to.    A.,  I.  xv.  1  : 
XIII.  xv.  1,  4;  xiii.:  XVIII.  iii.;  vi.  8. 

(3)  Such  as,   =this.    A.,  V.  ii.:  XI.  xii. 
2:  XIV.   vi.     Observe  A.,  VII.  xxxiii. 

(4)  The  name  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 
A.,  XII.  ix. 

Weak,  soft.    A.,  XVII.  xii. 


This.    A.,  IX.  v.  2. 


J3£  (1)  Grass.  A.,  XII.  xix.  ^  jfr, 
u*aou  grasses  and  trees,  =plants.  P.M.,  xxvi. 
tsiao   9.    A.,  XVU.  ix.  7:  XIX.  xii.  2.  (2)  A 

rough  copy.     Jp[  ^g|J,  to  make  the  first 

copy.    A.,  XIV.  ix. 
ife]        A  cadet  of  the  ducal  family  of  Wei  A., 
king      XUI.  viii. 
citing 

Lower  3d  tone.    To  bear,  carry.    A., 

XIV.  xlii.  l.:XVm.  vii.  1. 

ftjT        (1)    Grave;  gravity,  dignity.     D.M., 

c'urang  xxxi.  1.  A.,  II.  xx.:  XI.  xx.:  XV.  xxxii. 
chuang  2.  3.  (2)  An  hon.  epithet.  A.,  XIV. 
xiii.— A  ^  XIX.  xviii. 

|*  g|,  smilingly.    A„  XVII.  iv.  2. 


nan 


leu 
chii 


mo 


2E        Vegetables,  edible  herbs.    A.,  X.  viii. 

ts-ue     10. 
ts*ai 

|j3|        (1)  T.q.  :££.    Flowers.  A.,  IX.  xxx.  1. 

h™  (2)  4V  P-§  ^'  and  ^T  #'  one  of 
Conf.  disciples.  A.,  VI.  iii.:  VII.  xxxiii.: 
XI.  xxi.;  xxv. 

iffi        Lower  3d  tone.     Name  of  the  most 

hwa     western  of  the  five  mountains.    D.M., 
hua     xxvi.  9. 

]J|:        Poor,  sparing.    A.,  VIII.  xxi. 

jE        Ten  thousand.   j|£  {^r,  all  things.    D. 

wan     M.,  i.  5 ;  xxvi.  9 ;  xxvii.  2 ;  xxx.  3.     j§£ 

~fc\  the  myriad  regions,  ue.,  throughout 

the  empire.    A.,  XX.  i.  3. 

^Hf        To  display.    G.L.c,  vi.  2.    To  become 

choo     manifest,   the  being  displayed.      D.M., 
chu      xxiii.;  xxxiii.  1. 

ffi:        To  bury ;  to  be  buried ;  a  burial.  D.M., 

tsang  xviii.  3.  A.,  II.  v.  3 :  IX.  xi.  3 :  XL  x.  1, 
2. 


fei 


moo 

mu 


~g*  ^J ,  the  name  of  a  small  city  of 
Loo.    A.,  XIII.  xviii. 

(1)  Not.    G.L.c,  viii.  1.    D.M.,  xii.  2. 

A.,  VI.  xv.:  et  al.,  sarpe.  J@[  ~jfc  occurs 
as  a  strong  affirmative.  D.M.,  iv.  2; 
xxxi.  3,  4.    The  power  of  ]6[,  like  other 

negatives,  to  attract  immediately  to  itself 
the  object  of  the  verb  following,  is  to  be 
noted.  P.M.,  vii.  A.,  IV.  xiv^  XIII. 
xv.  4,  5 :  XI V.  xviii.  3.  It  stands  some- 
times without  a  preceding  noun,  and  = 
no  one.  A.,  XIV.  xxxvii.  1 :  et  al.  So, 
in  the  passive.  D.M.,  i.  3.  (2)  ^fe|||, 
has  no  predetermined  objection,  (3)  ? 
perhaps.    A.,  VIII.  xxxii. 

Used  for  3£.  J|[l|p,  the  last  month 
of  spring.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  7. 


Hf       I4.  Sfc,  calamities.    GX.c,  x.  17,  23. 


Uae 
tsai 


Timid,  timidity.    A.,  VIH.ii. 
I.q.  Jot.    Green.    G.L.c,  iii.  4. 


$e 

hsi 

lu 

^S  (1)  The  conjunction  for.  D.M.,  xxvi. 
kae  10.  A.,  XVI.  1. 10.  (2)  An  introductory 
kai      hypothetical  particle.  A.,  IV.  vi.  3 :  VII. 

xxvii.     (3)  =as  a  rule.    A.,  XIII.  iii. 

4:XVI.ii.  1. 

fffiE       Leaves,  foliage.    G.L.C,  ix,  6. 


ye 
yeh 


the 


ploo 
p'u 


tstn 
chen 


the 
shih 


The  name  of  a  state.    A.,  VII.  xviii.: 
XUI.  xvi.;  xviii. 
A  kind  of  rush.    D.M.,  xx.  3. 

^g  5a£,  luxuriant,    GX.c.,  ix.  6. 

Tho  milfoil.    D.M..  xxiv. 

A  bamboo  basket.    A.,  XVU1.  vii  L 

The  name  of  a  mountain.    A.,  XVL  i. 


tleaou 
t'iao 

^     l 

mung    4. 

m£ng 

3£       (l)  The  name  of  a  State.  An  31.  &  *  *• 
ts'ae    XVIII.  ix.  2.    (2)  The  name  of  a  large 
tortoise.    A.,  V.  xvii. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


362 


CHINESE    CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


INDEX    VIL 


m 

pe 
Pi 

p. 

licet 
kuei 


tang 


(1)  To  cover,  to  comprehend.  A.,  IT. 
ii.  (2)  To  cover,  to  becloud;  to  hide, 
keep  in  obscurity.  At  XVII.  viii.  I,  2: 
XX.  i.  3. 

A  straw  basket.    A.,  XIV.  xlii.  1. 

(1)  LaW.  ggj  gjpf  5j>,  how  vast! 
A.,  VIII.  xix.  1.  (2)  Dissipation  of 
mind.  A.,  XVII.  viii.  3.  Wild  license. 
A.,  XVII.xvi.2.  (3)  $5j||,  e^y  and 
composed.  A.,  VII.  xxxv.  ?  should 
here  be  read  Vang. 

The  name  of  a  State.    A.,  XIV.  xii. 


see 
hsieh 


po 


$eaou 
hsiao 


Thin.    A.,  VIII  ill.  =neglected.  G.L. 

t.,   7.      S|   3J!£,    coming    with    small 

contributions.     D.M.,  xx.  14.     rat  W", 
requiring  little  from.    A.,  XV.  xiv. 
$Jjgg,  a  screen.    A„  XVL  i,  13. 

IIS        To  present  an  offering  in  sacrifice.    D. 

tseen    M.,  xix.  3.    A.,  X.  xiii.  1. 
chieu 

J§§        To  decease ;— spoken  of  a  prince.    A.. 

hung    XIV.  xliii.  2. 

|95        (1)  To  store  away,  to  keep.    G.L.C.,  ix. 

ts'ang  4.  AMIX.  xii.    To  keep  retired.    A.,VTL 

x.  i.     (2)  A  surname.     A.,  XIV.  xiii.; 

xv. 

jjrtB  Low.  3d  tone.    Things  to  be  treasured. 

tiffing  D.M.,  xxvL  9. 

Mh  (1)  The  polite  arts.  A.,  VII.  vi.  4.    (2) 

e  Having  various  abitity  and  arts.  A^  VL 

i  vi.:  IX.  vi.  4  :  XIV.  xiii.  1. 

3£        Physic.    A.,  X.xi.2. 


yo 


tsaou 
tsao 

P 

kcang 
chiang 


keu 
chii 


hoo 
hu 


ne*5 
yao 


Duckweed.    A.,  V.  xvii. 

Ginger.    A.,  X.  viii.  6 

A  surname.    A.,  XIV.  xxvi.:  XV.  vi.  2. 

THE  141st  RADICAL.  J©. 

A  tiger.     A,  VH.  x.  8:  XII.  viii.  3 : 
XV Ji.  7. 

Cruelty,  oppression.    A.,  XX  ii.  3. 


ch'oo 
ch*u 


hen 
hsft 


yu 


Ictfiou 
chiao 


tsaou 
tsao 


Up.  2d  tone,  a  verb.     To  dwell  in ;  to 
occupy.    A.,  IV   i.;  ii.;  v.,   Jj£  ^,  to 


dwell   in   retirement. 
XVII.  xxi.  5. 


A.;  XIII. 


heuS 
hsieh 


Empty.    A.,  VII.  xxv.  3:  VIIL  v. 

(1)  The  accepted  surname  of  Shun. 

A.,Vin.xx.3.    (2)  ^#^rj^{>{l, 
An  XVIII.  viii.  1,  4. 

THE  142i>  RADICAL.  ]Jj. 

The  iguanadon.    D.M.,  xxvL  9. 

Ijq.  S.  Early.  DJn%  xxix.  6. 

(1)  The  barbarians  of  the  south.     i@E 

^SS5,  barbarians,  generally.    D3L,  xxxi. 

4.    A.,XV.v.2.    £g  Jg£,  the  twitter- 
ing of  a  bird.    G.L.  c,  xii.  2. 

THE  143d  RADICAL.  fa. 

Blood.  J\^  faM^*  roen- 
D.M.,xxxi.4.  MM%fe=*» 
animal  passions,  physical  powers.  A., 
XVI.  vii. 


n 

king 
hsing 


ft 

king 

ft 

hang 

m 

hang 


THE  144th  RADICAL,  ^y. 

(1)  To  go;  walk.    D.M.,  xr.  1.    A, 

VI.  xii.:  X.  iv.  2 ;  xiii.  4 :  et  al.  Applied 
to  the  movements  of  the  sun  and  moon. 
D.M.,  xxx.  2,  3 :  tt  at.  =to  depart ;  take 
one's  leave.  A.,  XV.  i.  1:  XVIII.  xii.: 
tt  al.  (2)  To  do,  practise ;  to  be  practised. 
D.M?  iv.;  xi.  1 ;  xii.  2 :  et  aln  mepe.  A, 
II.  xiii.;  xviii.  2  ;  xxiL:  tt  «/.,  sape.  To 
act,  absolutely,  as  a  neuter  verb.  D-M-, 
xi.  2  ;  xiv.  1,  2 ;  xx.  10 ;  xxix.  5 ;  xxxi.  3. 
A.,  I.  vi.;  xii.  2 :  tt  al>  tape.  =to  com- 
mand. A.,  VII.  x.  2.  To  undertake  the 
duties  of  office.  AM  VII.  x.  1.  ff  £* , 
the  conduct  of  one*s-self.  A.,  V.  xhu 
XIIL  xx.     |g  ff  ^  ^,  A.  vn. 

xxxii.  =to  succeed.    Au,  XX.  i.  6 :  XH. 

vi.:  tt  al 

Low.  3d  tone.  Conduct,  actions; — a 
noun.  D.M.,  xiii.  4:  xx.  16.  A.,  L  xii 
II.  xviii.  2 :  IV.  xxiii--  et  al^  tape. 

Low.  3d  tone,  fjfj,  bold-like.  A* 
XI.  xu.  1. 

A  yoke.    A.,  XV.  v.  3. 

The  name  of  a  State.  A*  TO.  xto 
IX.  xiv.:  tt  al 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  VII. 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


363 


3c 


e 

gae 
ai 

jon 


THE  145th  RADICAL.  ^. 

Clothes,  a  garment.  D.M.,  xviii  2. 
A.,  IV.  ix.:  X.  iii.  2 ;  vi  4,  6  ;  vii  1:  xxii 
2.  55c^,A.,VIII.xxi.  ^^where 

^g^  denotes  the  clothes  for  the  lower 

part  of  the  body.    D.M.,xix.3.    A.,  IX. 
ix. 

Up.  3d  tone.    To  wear.     A.,  V.  xxv. 

2 :  VI.  iii.  2 :  IX.  xxvi:  XVII.  xxi.  4 

Honorary  epithet  of  a  dnke  of  Loo.  D. 
M.,  xx.    A.,  II.  xixM-  et  aL 

Also  written  fft.  (1)  Tlie  lappel  in 
front  of  a  coat,  buttoning  on  the  right 
breast.  A.,  XI V.  xviii.  2.  (2)  To  sleep 
on,  make  a  mat  of.    D.M.,  x.  4. 

To  wear  outside.    A.,  X.  vi.  8. 


peaou 
piao 

-|j£        To  decay,  decline.    A.,  VH.  v.:  XVL 

shwcu  vii.:  XVIII.  v. 

ahuai 

3|?       Mourning  clothes,  with  the  edges  either 

t* '«#    unhemmed  (fg£  £$),  or  frayed  (^ 

^)m    A.,  IX.  ix.:  X.  xvi.  5. 

^       Sleeves.    A^  X,  vi  5. 

me 

mi 

Wl       f$f  Wb  di8heTeUed  hair-    A,  XIV. 

j>*«       xviiL  2. 

p'ei 

ipg       A  robe.    A.,  IX.  xxvi 

piaou 

p*ao 

3H£       To  cut  and  shape  clothes ; — used  meta- 

Ulae     phoricaliy.    A*,  V.  xxi. 
U'ai 

%£       Generous.    D.M.,  xxxi  1. 

J* 

**£       Fur  garments.    A.,  V.  xxv.  2 :  VI.  iii. 

k'ew    2 :  X.  vi  4,  6,  10. 

ch*iu 

^        The  lower  garments.    ^  !j£,  A,  IX. 

*Aon^  ix.:  X.  vi.  9. 

sluing 

|gj        A  cloth  in  which  infants  are  strapt  to 

chlarf  the  back#    I®  51' to  carrjr  on  the  back' 
lgAn  XIII.  iv.  3. 

I||       Undress.    A.,  X.  vL  2,  5 ;  xvi.  2. 
hsfeh 


]||       A  name.    A.,  XVIII.  ix.  5. 

seang 
hsiang 

H?       Hi  #&'  evenly  adJ#U8ted-    ^  X  iii 

cA«n     2. 

lift       To  follow,  accord  with.     D.M.,  xxx.  1. 

hsi 

THE  146th  RADICAL.  jHj. 

JK  jfl§>  a  double  surname.  A.,  VII. 
xxxiii.:  XI.  xxi;  xxv. 

(1)  An  agreement.  A.,  XIV.  xxiii  2. 
(2)  To  force.    A.,  XTV.  xv. 

To  overthrow.  D.M.,xvii.3.  A.,  XVII. 
xviii.  To  throw  down,  as  earth  on  the 
ground.    A.,  IX.  xviii. 

Low.  3d  tone.  To  overspread,  cover. 
D.M.,  xxvi.  4,  9 ;  xxx.  2 ;  xxxi  4. 

THE  147th  RADICAL.  J^. 

Tosee.    Pauim.    ||  jfij  ^  ^  to 

see  and  not  perceive.  G.L.c,  vii.  2.  D. 
M.,  xvi.  2.  Before  other  verbs,  forming 
the  passive  voice.  D.M.,  xi.  3.  A-,  XVII. 
xxvi. 

(1)  To  be  manifest.    D.M„  i.  8 ;  xxiv.; 

xxvi.  6 ;  xxxi  3.  A.,  VIII.  xiii.  2 :  XV. 
i  3.  (2)  To  have  an  interview ;  to  in- 
troduce. A.,  III.  xxiv.:  VII.  xxviii.  1. 
XV.  xli:  XVI.  i  2 :  XVIH.  vii.  3. 

To  observe,  to  look  at.    GX.C,  vi.  2, 8. 

D.M.,  xiii  2.    A.,  II.  x.  1:  XH.  i  2: 

2     D.M.,xvi.2.    ^^Hiito 

throw  a  dignity  into  his  looks.  A.,  XX. 
i  2.  To  visit  to  see.  A.,  X.  xiii.  3.  To 
regard,  look  upon.  AM  XI.  x.  3.  To 
require,  look  for.    A.,  XX.  ii.  3. 

(1)  To  love,  show  affection  to.   G.L.c, 

iii.  5.  D.M.,  xix.  5 ;  xx.  6,  13,  14  ;  xxxi 
4.  (2)  To  approach  to,  seek  to  be  in- 
timate with.  A.,  I.  vi.;  xiii,  j£  SB  =» 
proper  persons  to  be  intimate  with.  (8) 
Personal,  one's-self .    A.,  XVII.  vii.  ~J^ 

$B  Jtay  did  not  use  his  fingers.    A.,  X 

xvii  2.  (4)  Relatives.  D.M.,  xx.  6,  13, 
14.  A.,  VIII.  ii.  2:  XVIII.  x.:  XX.  i.  5, 

(5)  Parents,  a  parent.  G.L.c,  x.  13.  D, 
M.,  xx.  7, 17.  A.,  XII.  xxi.  3 :  XIX,  xvii 

(6)  Said  to  be  used  for  £jp    G.L.T.,  i 

To  have  an  interview  and  audience. 
An  X.  v.  3. 


IS 
$e 

hsi 


yaou 
yao 


fuh 
fu 


Jbw 
fou 


keen 
chien 


been 
hsien 


*she 
shih 


ts'm 
ch'in 


teih 
ti 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


364 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND    PHRASES. 


index  vn. 


||j|  To  look  at ;  to  mark.  A.,  I.  xi.:  II.  x. 
kwan  2 :  HI.  x.;  xxvi.:  IV.  vii.:  V.  ix.  2 :  VIII. 
kuan   xi.:  XII.  xx.  5:  XIX.  iv.     g£   pf  J# 

J|B,  the  odes  may  be  used  for  purposes 
of  self-contemplation.    A.,  XVII.  ix.  3. 

*§T        To  apprehend.     -4r  ^  ^g"t  oue  who 

ifeeJJ      is  of  quick  apprehension. 

chio 

THE  148th  RADICAL.  j|. 

-ft        A  horn ;  horned.    A.  VI.  iv. 

ktd 

chio 

iW        A  drinking  vessel,  made  with  corners. 

koo      A.,  VI.  xxiii. 
ku 

THE  140th  RADICAL.  =|T 


kee 
chieh 

I* 

Vaou 
t'ao 


jdn 


shun 

V6 
Vo 

suny 

m 

nti/t 
nii 

m 

she 

she 

ft 

cha 

->_  -» 
yung 


(1)  A  word,  words ;  a  saying,  a  sentence. 
G.L.C.,  ix.  8 ;  x.  9.  D.M.,  vi.;  xiii  4  ;  xx. 
6 ;  xxvi.  7 ;  xxvii.  7 ;  xxxiii.  4.  A.,  I.  iii.; 
xiii.;  xiv.:  II.  ii.;  xiii.:  et  a/.,  passim.  To 
speak  ;  to  speak  of;  to  tell.  D.M..  xxix. 
5  ;  xxxi.  3  ;  xxxiii.  8.  A.,  I.  vii.;  xv.  3: 
II.  ix.;  xviii.  2.:  ct  aL,  passim,  ssnieauing. 

D.M.,  xii.  3.    (2)  The  surname  of  -4- 

\\fl%  one  of  Conf.  disciples.    An  XIV. 
xii.  2. 

To  expose  people's  secrets.  A.,  XVII. 
xxir.  2. 

(1)  To  punish.    A.,  XIV.  xxii.  2.     (2) 

gkf  ijfg,  to  examine  and  discuss.    A., 
XIV.  ix. 

Words  spoken  slowly  and  cautiously. 
A.,  XH.  iii.  2,  3. 

To  rail  at,  slander     A.,  XVII.  xxiv. 

To  entrust,  be  entrusted,  with.  A., 
VIII.  vi. 

Litigations.  G.L.c,  iv.  A.,  XII.  xiii. 
=to  accuse.    A.,  V.  xxvL 

Slow  in  speaking.  A.,  IV.  xxiv.  Modest. 
A.,  XIII.  xxvii. 

To  set  forth,  display.    D.M.,  xix.  3. 


Deceitful.    A.,  IX.  xi.  2.    Deceit.   A., 

XVII.  xvi.  2.     Deception,  attempts  to 
deceive.     A.,  XIV.  xxxiii. 

To  sing.    A.,  XL  xxv.  7. 


she 
shih 


lay 
lei 

choo 
chu 

m 

she 
shih 


vii 
vii 


(1)  To  try,  examine.  D.&L,  xx.  14.  A., 
XV.  xxiv.  (2)  To  be  used,  have  official 
employment.    An  IX.  vi.  4. 

A  collection  of  Prayers  of  Eulogy.  A-, 
VII.  xxxiv. 

To  reprove.    A.,  V.  ix.  1. 


The  Book  of  Poetry ;  the  pieces  in  the 
B.  of  P.  A.,  I.  xv.  3  :  n.  ii.:  III.  viiL 
3:    VII.   xvii.:    VIII.   viii.    I:  XIII.  r.: 

XVI.  xiii.  2,  5:  XVII.  ix.  1,2.    f^Q' 

To  speak ;  to  speak  of.    P.M.,  xii.  2. 

A.,  VII.  xx.:  X.  viii.  9.     Words,  savings. 
A.,  IX.  xxiii.:  XII.  i.  2 ;  ii.:  XVI.  xi*.  1,  2. 

Low.  3d  tone.    To  speak  to;  to  telL 

A.,  III.  xxiii.:  VI.  xix:  IX.  xix.:  XHL 
xviii.  1 :  XVII.  viii.  2 :  XIX.  xxiii. 


Wfi  *°  ma^c»  h*5  niMde,  sincere ;  sincerely. 
shiny  G.L.t  ,  4.  5  :  r.,  vi.  1,  2,  4.  In  the  Doc- 
clreiig  trine  of  the  Mean,  the  term  has  a  mysti- 
cal significance.  D.M.,  xvi.  5;xx.  17t 
18  ;  xxi.;  xxii.;  xxiii.;  xxiv.;  xxv.  1.  2.  3; 
xxvi.  1  ;  xxxii.  1.  Really,  siucerely.  U. 
L.c,  ix.  2  A.,  XII.  x.  3.  True.  A, 
XIII.  xi. 


suny 


shied 
shuo 


yue 
yiieh 


PP 

L'twu 
kao 

hwuy 
hui 


she 
shih 


To  repeat ;  hum  over.  A..  IX.  xxvi.  3- 
XIII.  v.  ^ 

(1)  To  speak  of ;  the  speaking  (what  w 

said).  D.M.,  xxviii.  5.  A..  III.  xxi  2: 
XII.  viii.  2:  XVII.  xiv.  (2)  Meaning- 
A.,  III.  xi, 

For  +&.  To  be  pleased;  pleased 
with ;  a  matter  of  pleasure.  D.M.,  xxxi. 
3.  A.,  I.  i.  1  :  V.  v.:  VI.  x.;  xxvi-  IX. 
xxiii.:  XI  iii.:  XIII.  xvi.  2  ;  xxv.:  XVIL 
v.  2. 

To  enjoin  upon;  instructions.  ||f  p|J» 
the  name  of  a  Book  in  the  Shoo-king. 
G.L.C.,  i.  1 ;  ii.  2 ;  ix.  2  ;  x.  10. 

To  instruct ;  teach.  An  IL  xviL:  VlL 
ii.;  vii.;  xxxiii.:  XIV.  viii. 

To  declare  solemnly  ;  an  oath.  ^S  w, 
the  name  of  a  Book  in  the  Shoo-king. 
G.L.c,  x.  14. 

=f|  Who,  whom.  A.,  VI.  xv.:  VTL  x.  2; 
shiny  IX.  xi.  2:  XI.  ix.  3:  XV.  xxiv.:  XVI.  i 
shui     7  :  XVIII.  vi.  2,  3,  4 :  XX.  ii.  2. 

rM       The  appearance  of  being  bland,  yet  pre- 
cise.   A.,  X.ji.  2:  XI.  xii. 


yui 
en 

m 

chen 
chuil 


To  flatter;  flattering, 
xxiv.:  HI.  xviii. 


A.,Lxv.  l:JL 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES, 


365 


m 

■she 
shih 

Jieiien 
lisiiun 

shni 
shen 


This,  or  to  examine.    G.L.O.,  i.  2. 


To  forget.    G.L.c.,  iii.  4. 


A  name.    A.,  XIV.  ix. 


yen 
nl? 

ts'ing 
ch'ing 


icoo 


yew 
yn 

EV 

leang 
lian'g 

ftp 

ieang 
liang 

ret 


m 


nd 
no 

m 

choo 
chu 


A  common  saying,  a  proverb.  G.L.c, 
viii.  2. 

To  request ;  to  beg.  In  the  first  per- 
son, sometimes  merely  a  polite  way  of 
expressing  a  purpose.  A.,  III.  xxiv.:  VI. 
iii.:  VII.  xxxiv.:  XI.  vii.  1  :  XII.  i.  2;  ii.: 
XIII.  i.  2 ;  iv.  1 :  XIV.  xxii.  2 :  XVII.  vi. 

To  delude ;  impose  on.  A.,  XIX,  xxi. 
2. 

To  lead  on.    A.,  IX.  x.  2. 


Sincere.     A.,  XVI.  iv.     Simple  and 
sincere.    A,  XIV.  xviii.  3 :  XV.  xxxvi. 


Low.  1st  tone.    In  the  phrase  =£ 
A.,  XIV.  xliii.  1. 


(1)  To  say  to.    A.,  II.  xxi.  1 :  III.  ii.: 

V.  viii.  1 :  n  «/.,  srrpe.  (2)  To  say  of.  A., 
III.  L;  xv.;  xxv.:  XVIII.  viii.  3,  4  :  el  «/., 
tape.  (3)  To  call ;  to  be  called.  G.L  c, 
iv.;  v.;  vi.  1,  2  ;  vii.  1,  3 ;  viii.  1,  3 ;  ix.  1, 
3  ;  x.  1,  15,  17,  22,  23.  D.M.,  i.  4 ;  xxi. 
A.,  I.  vii.;  xi.;  xiv.:  et  a/.,  s&pe.    Observe 

the  idiom,  £  s|j.  G.L.C.,  x.  2,  3.  D. 
M,  i  1 ;  xxvii.  7.  An  I.  xv.  2 :  XVI.  xii. 
2.  !j|  ;£  is  different.  /fif-^  =what 
is  meant?  A.,  III.  viii.  1 ;  xiii.  1 :  IV. 
xv.  2  :  XX.  ii.  1,  2,  3 :  et  a/.,  smpe. 

To  discourse,  discuss.  A.,  XI.  xx : 
XIV.  ix. 

(1)  Oh  ;  yes.  A.,  VII.  xiv.  1 :  XVIII. 
i.  2.    (2)  A  promise.    A.,  XII.  xii.  2. 

(1)  As  a  preposition, — in,  to,  from,  &c, 

and  sometimes  cannot  be  translated.  G. 
L.c,  ix.  4;  x.  15.  D.M.,  vii.;  xiii.  3:  et 
al.  A.,  I.  xv.  3:  III.  xi.:  V.  xi.;  xxiii.: 
XVII.  i.  1 ;  iv.  3 ;  vii.  2  :  et  al.    (2)  As 

an  interrogative, =^p^  -*£.    A.,  VI.  iv.: 

VII.  xxxiv.:  IX.  xii.:  XI.  xxi.:  XII.  xi.3: 

etal     (3)    Apparently  =jj£,  this.    A., 

VI.  xxviii.  1 :  XIV.  xlv.  (4)  Not  merely 
one  all.    D.M.,  xx.  13.   A.,  II.  xix.:  XII. 

xxii.  3,  4.  (5)  Observe  ~5£i  =|£,  A.,  I. 
x.  2;  and  ^  gg,  A.,  XVII.  xii.:  XIX. 
xii.  2.    (C)  g|J  JS\  a  name  of  China.  A., 


keen 
cbien 


mow 
mou 

kin 
chin 

!$ 

skill 

cite 
chin 


keang 
chiang 


III.  v.    (7)  jjjjjj  >0|,  the  princes  of  the 

empire,  a  prince.  D.M.,  xviii.  3;  xx  12, 
13,  14.  A.,  XI.  xxv.  11:  XIV.  xvii.  2  ; 
xviii.  2  :  XVI.  ii. 

To  remonstrate  with,  reprove.   A.,  IIT. 

xxi.  2 :  IV.  xviii.:  XVIII.  i.;  v.  1 :  XIX. 
x. 

To  plan ;  plan  about ;  plans.  A.,  I.  iv.: 
VII.  x.3:  VIII.  xiv.:  XIV.  xxviu  XV. 
xxvi.;  xxxi.;  xxxix.:  XVI.  i.  13. 

Earnestly  careful.    D.M.,  xiii.  4.    A., 

I.  vi.:  X.  i.  2.  To  give  attention  to.  A., 
XX.  i.  6. 

To  know,  become  acquainted  with.  A., 
XVII.  ix.  7. 

Up.  3d  tone.  To  remember.  A.,  VII 
ih;  xxvii.:  XV.  ii.  1 :  XIX.  xxii.  2. 

To  discourse  about.    A.,  VII.  iii 


pang 

m 

keui 
chiieh 

m 

fce'B 
ch4ieh 


To  vilify. '  A.,  XIX.  x. 
Crafty.    A.,  XIV.  xvi. 

EJ  gift  self -enjoyment.  G.L.c,  vi.  1. 

Slander.    A.,  XII.  vi. 


tsin 
clieu 

=yS       To  testify,  bear  witness  to.    A.,  XIII. 

ching    xviii.  1. 
cheug 

teak       To  compare;  a  comparison.    A.,  VI. 

P[e       xxviii.  3.    «|£  iffjy  may  be  compared  to. 

A.,  II.  i.:  IX.  xviii.     ^  |g,  is  like  to. 

A.,  XVII.  xii.:  XIX.  xii.  2.   ^^,let 

me  compare  it.    A,  XIX.  xxviii.  2. 

^t        Renown ;  to  praise.  D.M.,  xxix.  6.  Read 

yu        in  thejlow.  1st  tone,  with  the  same  mean- 
ytt       ing.    A,  XV.  xxiv. 

gM        To  discourse  with,  to  discuss.    A.,  IV. 

ix.:  XVI.  ii.  3.    To  discuss  and  settle,  to 
arrange.    D.M.,  xxviii.  2. 

To  read,  study.    A.,  XI.  xxiv.  8. 


e 

i 

pja 

tuh 
tu 


peen 
pien 


jang 


To  change ;  changes.  D.M.,  x.  5 ;  xxiii.; 

xxvi.  6.    A  ,  VI.  xxii.:  X.  vii.  2 ;  xvi.  2, 
4,5:  XlX.ix. 

Courteous,  humble.    G.L.c,  ix.  3.    A., 

XI.  xxv.  10.   To  decline,  yield.  A.,  VIIL 

i.:  XV.  xxxv.  jjjg  jf||»  the  complaisance 

of  propriety._A,  IV.  xiii. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


866 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX  vn. 


tow 
tou 


he 
ch'i 


m 


yu 
yii 


p'aou 
p'ao 

m 

mih 
niai 

m 

muou 
mao 

hdh 
hsio 


ching 
chen 

f- 

foo 
fu 


tslae 
ts'ai 


kung 


plin 


Slander,  —slanderers.    D3L.  xx.  14. 

THE  161st  RADICAL,  j3f . 

A  wooden  vessel,  in  common  use,  and 
at  sacrifices.  $L  JEjf,  A^  Vlfl.  iv.  3. 
^gtA.XV.i.l. 

How.    A.  VII.  xxxiii.:  IX.  xxx.:  XIV. 

xiv.  2 ;  xviii.  8.    Followed  by  jjjjjj,  *fy 

^£,  and  J^.    A.,  XVIL  v.  8;  vii.  4: 
XVm.vi.3:XIX.xxr. 

THE  152d  RADICAL.  ^C. 

A  small  pig.    G.L.c.,  x.  22.   A.,  XVIL, 
i.  1. 
Preparation  beforehand.   D.M^  xx.  16. 

THE  153d  RADICAL.  g£. 
A  leopard.    A.,  XII.  Tiii.  8. 

The  barbarous  tribes  of  the  north.  ifS& 

^g.    D.M.,xxxi.4.    A.,XV.t.2. 

Aspect,  demeanour.    A.,  VIII.  iv.  8: 

XVI.  x.     j/j[  3}9.  to  use  a  ceremonious 
manner.    A.,  X.  xvi.  2. 

The  badger,  =badger's  fur.  A.,  IX. 
xxvi.:  X.  vi.  7. 

THE  164th  RADICAL.  J|. 
Correct  and  firm.    A.,  XV.  xxxvi. 

To  carry  on  the  back.  A.,  X.  xvi.  8 : 
Xin.  It.  3. 

Wealth.     G.L.c,  x.  6,  7,  9,  20,  21,  23. 

§T  ™»  means  of  expenditure.    D.M., 
xx.  13.  =8ources  of  wealth.  D.M,  xxvi. 
9. 
-3—  Eg,  one  of  Confucius*  disciples. 

A,  I.  x.  I,  2 ;  xv.  1,  2 :  II-  xiii.:  et  a/., 
sape, 

Poor,  being  in  a  poor  condition ;  poverty. 
D.M.,  xiv.  2.  A.I.  xv.  1 :  IV.  v.  1 :  VIIL 
x.;  xiii.  3:  XIV.  xi.:  XV.  xxxi.:  XVI.  i. 
10. 


huo 
Van 


tcwan 
kuan 


vrh 

% 

tsih 
tse 


/civet 
kuei 


f« 


Pi 


tsih 
tsei 


sluing 


fcea 
chia 


h'ien 
hsien 


put 


ts*ze 
tz'u 


Goods.  GX.a,  x.  10.  A.,  XL  xviii.  2. 
Riches  D.M.,  xx.  14.  Articles  af  value. 
D.M.,  xxvi.  9. 

To  covet,  desire.  A.,  XX  iL  1,  2.  To 
be  ambitious.    GX.c,  ix.  3. 

To  go  through,  pervade.  A.,  TV.  xr. 
1 :  XV.  ii.  8.  It  is  difficult  to  assign  its 
meaning  in  XI.  xiii.  2. 

To  repeat;  repeated.     A^  VT.  iL  L 

~jFs    Pp,  without  doubleness.     DJL, 
xxvi.  7. 
To  require  from.    A.,  XV.  xiv. 


(1)  Noble,  being  in  an  honourable  con- 
dition. Associated  with  T§?,  D.M.,  xiv. 
2.  A.,  IV.  v.  1 :  VH.  xv.:  VIIL  xiii.  3 : 
XIV.v.  3.  Contrasted  with  ^.  D.ls^ 
xviii.  8 ;  xix.  4.  Excellent,  valuable.  A~, 
I.  xii.  1 :  IX.  xxiii.  (2)  To  esteem  noble. 
D.M.,xx.l4.    A.,  VIIL  iv.  3. 

(1)  Extended,  reaching  far  and  wide. 
D.M.,  xii.  1.  (2)  To  expend  largely.  A-, 
XX.  ii.  1,  2. 

The  name  of  a  city.  A^  VI.  vii.:  XL 
xxiv.:  XVL  i.  8 :  XVIL  v. 

To  injure;  injury.  A.,  XL  xxiv.  2: 
XX.  ii.  3.  An  injurious  disregard  of 
consequences.  An  XVH.  viii.  3.  A 
pest.  A.,  XIV.  xlvi.  Thieves  or  injurers. 
A.,  XVIL  xiii. 

To  reward.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  4.  A^  XIL 
xviii. 

A  price.    A.,  IX.  xii.     In  up.  2d  tons. 

A  name.     A.,  IIL  xiii.:  XIV.  xx.— A, 
XIV.  xiv. 

(1)  As  an  adjective,  admirable,  virtu* 
ous  and  talented.  A.,  VI.  ix.:  XIII.  iL  1* 
2 :  et  al.  As  a  noun,  f^  and  §?"  jfc* 
worthies,  men  of  talents  and  virtue.  G» 
L.c,  x.  16.  D.M.,  iv.;  xix.  4 ;  xx.  5,  8, 
13,  14.  A.,  I.  vii.:  IV.  xvii.:  XV.  ix.:  tt 
al.,  sape.  As  a  verb,  to  treat  as  a  Ada. 
G.L.C.,  iii.  5.  A-,  I.  vii.  (2)  To  surpass, 
be  better  than.  A.,  XI.  xv.  1 :  XVH. 
xxii.:  XIX.  xxiii.  1 :  xxv.  1. 

A  guest,  a  visitor.    A.,  X.  iii.  4 :  XH 

ii.    ^^t,A^V.vu.4:XIV.xx.2. 

(1)  To  give;  bestow.  A.,  X.  xiii  I. 
Gifts.  A.,  XIV.  xviii.  2.  (2)  The  nams 
of  -j—  j=3  ,  one  of  Conf.  disciples.  A* 
I.  xv.  3 :  111.  xvii.  2 :  tt  a/.,  uzpe. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


IKDEX   VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


367 


PS  (1)  Mean,  in  a  mean  condition.  D.M., 
tseen  xix.  4  ;  xxviii.  1.  A.,  IX.  vi.  3.  Associat- 
chten  ed  with  ^.    D.M.,  xiv.  2 ;  A.,  IV.  v.: 

VIII.  xiii.  3.    Contrasted  with  j8\    D. 

M.,  xviii.  3;  xix.  4.    Asa  verb,  to  con- 
sider mean.    G.Lcn  viii.  I.    D.M.,  xx. 

14.    (2)  -¥-  Hg,  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 

A.,  V.  ii. 

£f        To  bestow ;  gifts.    A„  XX.  i.  4. 


lai 


fu 


^military  levies.    A.,  V.  vii.  2, 


@        (1)  Substantial,  solid;  substantial  qua- 

chUi  lities.  A.,  XII.  xx.  5 :  VI.  xvi.:  XII.  viii. 
1,  3.  =essential.  A.,  XV.  xvii.  (2) 
To  appear,  present  one's-seif,  before.  D. 
M..  xxix.  3,  4. 

^        To  assist.    D.M,xxit 

Uan 

THE  156th  RADICAL.  ^Ji 


(1)  ^  -¥%  an  infant.     G.L.c,  ix.  2. 

(2)  The  name  of  Tsze-hwa,  one  of  Conf. 
disciples.  A.,  V.  vii.  4:  VI.  ill.  2:  XI. 
xx i.;  xxv.  6,  11. 

To  pardon;  forgive.    A.,  XIII.  ii.  1: 

XX.  i.  3. 

j&|^,  how  distinguished!  GX,c, 
iii.  4.  ^  ^  greatly  distinguished. 
G.L.C.,  x.  4. 

THE  156th  RADICAL,  jjjr. 

To  assist,  bring  out  one's  meaning. 
A.,  HI.  vui.  3. 

A  great  family  of  the  State  of  Tern. 
A.,  XV.  xii. 

To  walk  quickly.  A.,  IX.  ix.:  X.  iii.; 
iv.5.    A.,  XVI.  xiii.  2,  3:  XVIII.  v.  2. 

THE  157th  RADICAL.  J^jL 


J^        (1)  The  feet.    A.,  VIII.  iii.:  X.  iii.  I : 

tsuh     iv.  3 ;  v.  1 :  XIII.  iii.  6.    (2)  Sufficient,  to 

t*u      be  sufficient ;  fit.    G.L.C.,  ix.  8 ;  x.  19.   1). 

M.,  xiii.  4  ;  xx.  14 ;  xxvii.   7  ;  xxviii.  5  : 

xxxi.  1.  A..  II.  ix.:  III.  ix.:  IV.  vi.  2  ;  ix.: 

et  a/.,  sape,  IbB  JSL   f3,  to  secure  suf- 
ficient for  the  people.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  5. 


ch'ih 


shay 
she 

hih 
to 


he 
ch'i 


chaou 
chao 


ts'cu 


^p       Up.  3d  tone.    Excessive.    A.,  V.  xxiv. 

tseu 

chii 

jj?£       To  stumble.    D,M.,  xx.  16. 

kee 
chieh 


m 

To  tread  on.    A.,  XI.  xix.  =to  occupy. 

tseen 
chien 

D.M.,  xix.  5. 

tseih 
chi 

JjjJ  ^3 »  *°  move  reverently.    A.,  X. 
iv.  5 ;  vi.  2. 

m 

tsuh 
tsu 

«&!&•'"©• 

K»J       To  step  over ;  transgress.  A.,  IL  iv.  6 : 
yu        XIX.  xi.;  xxiv. 

ya 

$k       W  ?1  $&>  the  road.     A.,  IX.  xi.  3. 

1°  (2)  -^r  $g,  one  of  Conf.  disciples.  D. 
M.,  x.  1.  A.,  V.  vi.;  vii.;  xiii.;  xxv.  2,  4 : 
etal.ysaspe.  ^5]£§,  wfem.  A.,  V.  xxv.: 
XI.ii.2;xi.:  XVI.  i.  2.  (3)  gjf  Jg§, 
the  father  of  Yen  Hwuy.     A.,  XI.  vii.  1. 

mi        To  trample  on.    D.M.,  ix.    To  tread 

taou    (the  path  of  virtue).    A.,  XV.  xxxiv. 

tao 

gg       To  leap.    D.M.,xii.  3. 

y» 

yo 

gj§       ^g  ^,  the  feet  dragging  along.    A., 

tuh       X.  V.  1. 
hsii 

H&       Hurried ;  rashness.    A.,  XVI.  vi 

tsaou 
tsao 

$|t       The  legs  bending  under.    A.,  X.  iii.  1 ; 

tee*     iv.  3. 

ch'io 

THE  158th  RADICAL.    Jfp. 

J|>        (1)  The  body.     A.,  X.  vi.  6 :  XV.  viii. 
shin     (2)  One's  own  person,  the  person.  G.L.T., 
sh§n    4,  5,  6 ;  c,  passim,      D.M.,  xiv.  5 ;  xx. 
4,  7,  11,  12,  13,  14,  17;  et  al.    A.,  I.  iv.; 
vii.:  et  al.  In  some  cases,  we  might  trans- 
late by  body.    (3)  $£  Jfp,  all  one's  life, 
continually.    A.,  IX.  xxvi.  3 :  XV.  xxiii. 
J|jj        (1)  The  body.      A.,  X.  iv.  1,  4;  v.  1: 
kung    XX.  i,  1.     (2)  In  one's  own  person.    A., 
IV.  xxi,:  VII.  xxxii.:  XIII.  xviii.;  XIV. 
vi.:  XV.  xiv.:  XX.  i.  3. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


368 


CHINESE    CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES. 


INDEX    VII. 


THE  159th  RADICAL.    f||. 

IB  A  carriage.    D.M.,  xxviii.  8 ;  xxxi.  4. 

keu  A.,  II.  xxii.:  V.  xxv.  2 :  X.  xv.  2 ;  xvii.  1, 

chii  2 :  XI.  vii.  1 :  XIV.  xvii.  2. 

jif  An  army.   ^j^jlf,  the  forces  of  a  great 

chim  State*   A.,VII.x.2:IX.xxt.    ^  Jg, 

A.,  XIV.  xxii.:  XV.  i.  1. 

jjf/L  The  rut  of  a  wheel.      =size,  standard. 

kwei  D.M.,  xxviii.  3. 
kuei 

jg|[  An  arrangement  for  yoking  the  horses 

yuS  in  a  light  carriage.    A.,  II.  xxii. 
yueh 

fj&  A  sute  carriage.    A.,  XV.  x.  8. 

loo 

la 

jjjj|  Light.    D.M.,  xxxiii.  6. 

yew 

yu 

tiffc  (1)  To  contain.     D.M.,  xii.  2 ;  xxri.  4, 

Uae  9 ;  xxx.  2 ;  xxxi.  4.    (2)  Business,  doings, 

tsai  D.M.,  xxxiii.  6. 

jjfjj}  To  assist.    A,  XII.  xxir. 

foo 
fu 

jgg  Light.    A.,V.xxv.2:VI.iii.2. 

fcing 
ch*ing 

£&  The  cross  bar  for  yoking  the  oxen  in  a 

t  large  carriage.    A.,  II.  xxii. 
i 

tft  (1)  A  carriage.     A.,  XV.  v.  3:  XVm. 

*1  vi.  2.    (2)  ^|^,  a  name.    A^  XVIII. 
v. 


chuS 
chueh 


To  desist,  stop.    A.,  XVIII.  vi.  3. 


THE  160th  RADICAL.  ^. 


JK  (1)   Partial,  perverse.    G.L.C.,  viii.  1 ; 

pktik  x.  4.      (2)  Specious.     A.,  XI.  xvii.  3 : 

p'i  XVI.  iv. 

JjSjj  A  sovereign  ;  applicable  to  the  emperor 

peifi  as  well  as  the  princes.    In  the  Ana.  only 

pi  of  the  princes.    D.M.,  xxxiii.  5.    A.,  111. 

ii. 

E$  £9.  \B^.      To  escape ;  withdraw  from. 

pe  D.M.,  vii.    A.,  XIV.  xxxix.  1,  2,  3,  4: 

pi  XVIII.  v.  2  ;  vi.  3. 

JW§  Itq.  fi£.      B$  ^p,  may  be  compared 

p%e  to.    D.M.,  xv.  1  ;  xxx.  2. 
pi 

$K:  To  discriminate;  to  discover.    D.M„ 

peen  xix.  4  ;  xx.  19,  20.    A.,  XII.  x.  1 ;  xxi.  1. 
pien 


tszt 

tz'u 


thin 
ch'dn 


(1)  Language;  speech.    G.L.C.,  iv.  A^ 
XV.  xL      3ft  Jj5,= words  and    tones. 

A„  Vin.  iv.  8.    Jj£  £  fife  to  frame 

excuses  for.  A.,  XVI.  i.  9.  (2)  To  re- 
fuse, decline.  D.M.,  ix.  A.,  VI.  iii.  3;  viij 
XVII.  xx. 

THE  161st  RADICAL.   Jjjjf . 

The  constellations  of  the  zodiac.    D. 

M.,  xxvi.  9.   Jfc  J^,  the  north  pole  star. 
A.,  II.  i. 
A  husbandman.     A.,  XIIL  iv.  I. 


nung 
n£ng 

JS        Disgrace ;  to  disgrace.     A.,  L  xiiu  IV. 

juh       xxv--  XII.  xxiii.:  XIIL  xx.:  XVIII.  viiL 
ju        2, 3. 

THE  162d  RADICAL.   j^_. 

^       Sudden.    A.,  X.xvi.5. 

sin 
hsin 

& 

yu 

& 

km 
chin 

ymg 

shuh 
shu 

m. 

m« 
mi 

it 

Icwoh 
kuo 

& 

diwy 
cliui 


tsin 
chin 


Wide  of  the  mark.    A.,  XIIL  iii.  3. 


To  be  near  to.  G.L.t„  8.  D.M,  xx. 
10 ;  xxix.  5.  A.,  I.  xiii.:  et  aL  Nearness. 
D  AC,  xxxiii.  I .  In  what  is  near,  iju, 
one's  self.    A.,  VI.  xxviii.  3 :  XIX.  vi 

To  meet.    D.M.,  xx,  14. 

To  transmit;  carry  forward.  DJC, 
xviii.  1 ;  xix.  2 ;  xxx.  1.  A.,  V1L  L: 
XVn.  xix.  2.  To  be  handed  down  to 
posterity.    D.M,  xi.  1.    A.,  XIV.  xl. 

To  leave  to  error.    A^,  XVII.  i.  2. 


A  name.     A^  XTV.  vi.— >f fo  j£,  A* 

xvni.  xi. 

To  go  back  in  thought,  and  act  accord- 
ing to  what  may  be  required.  DJf, 
xviii.  3.  A.,  I.  ix.  To  go  forward  in  the 
same  way.    An  XVIII.  v. 

To  advance,  go  forward.  A.,  VL  xiii.: 
VII.  xxviii.  2 :  IX,  xviii ;  xx.:  X.  iii.  3 ; 
iv.  5  :  XIII.  xxi.:  XIX.  xii.  Actively,  to 
call,  to  urge,  forward.    A,  III.  xxx.  2: 

xi. xxi.  %m&m=%% 

^^,A.,XI.i.l,2. 

Footsteps.    A^  XI.  xix. 


tseik 
chi 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX    VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS   AND   PHRASES. 


369 


To  anticipate.    A.,  XIV.  xxxiii. 

To  escort,  send  away  in  a  compliment- 
ary manner.    D.M.,  xx.  14.    A.,  X.  xi.  1. 
I.q.  J$l.    To  drive  out.    G.L  a,  x.  15. 

jg|        To  unloose,  *=to  relax.    A.,  X.  iv.  6. 

ch*ihg 
ch*eng 

jj^        To  make,     j^  flj-fe,  to  make  a  begin- 

taaou    ning.    D.M.,  xii.  4. 
tsao 

jnf        >&  >>V  ***  ur8enc7  ^d  haste.    A., 

tsaou  IV.  v. 3. 

ts'ao 

}j|j         To  reach  to.    D3L,  xxxi.  4.   Reaching 

limy  everywhere,=universal.  A.,  XVII.  xxi. 
6.  ~jf\  j||,  not  to  get  through,  or  for- 
ward.   G.L.C.,  x.  14. 

Jjg        Quick;  rapidly,  quickly.     A.,  XIII. 

suh      xvii.  1 :  XIV.  xlvii.  2. 

6U 

J^J  To  come  to,  to  reach  to.  G.L.C.,  x.  17. 
D.Mnxix.4.    A,  IV.  xxii.:  XVI.  iii. 

To  pass— be  passing— on.  A.,  IX.  xvi.: 

XVII.  i.  2.    UJ*  *g  fy,  may  be  made 
to  go  to.    A.,  VL  xxiv. 

(1)  To  retire,  withdraw.  A.,  II.  ix.: 
VII.  xxviii.  2;  xxx.  2:  X.  iii.  4:  XII. 
xxii.  4:  XVII.  xiii.  2,  8,  5:  XIX.  xii.  1. 
To  return  from.  A.,  X.  xii.:  XIH.  xiv. 
1.  (2)  To  remove.  GX.c,  x.  16.  To 
repress.    A.,  XI.  xxL 

(1)  To  retire  from  the  world  into  ob- 
scurity. A.,  XVHI.  viii.  1 :  XX.  i.  7.  (2) 
^  ^fc,  a  man's  name.    A.,  XVIII.  viii 

(1)  Accomplished,  having  had  its,  or 

their,  course.    A.,  III.  xxi.  2.    (2)  Then, 
accordingly.    A.,  XV.  i.  1. 

To  meet.  A„  XVII.  i.  1 :  XVIH.  vii.  1. 


tut/ 
t'ui 


**y 

stii 


m 

ko 
kuo 


kuo 


To  ramble.    A.,  Xn.  xxi.  1,    With  a 

bad   meaning.    44~  jijf,    idleness  and 

sauntering.  A.,  XVI.  v.  To  go  abroad. 
A.,  IV.  xix. 

To  go  beyond,  transgress ;  to  be  wrong. 

P.M.,  iv.  A.,  V.  vi;  XI.  xv.  1,  3 :  XIV. 
xiv.  2 :  XIX.  viii.  A  transgression,  error, 
fault.  G.L.c.,x.  16.  D.M.,  xxix.  1.  A., 
1.  vilL  4:1V.  vii.:  V.  xxvi.:  et  at,  s<rj>e. 

Up.  1st  tone.    To  go,  or  pass  by.    A., 

IX.  ix.:  X.  iv.  3 :  XIV.  xlii.:  XVI.  xiii.  2, 
3:XVUI.  v.  1;  vi.  1. 


taou 
tao 


taou 
tao 


m 

td 

ta 


yutn 
yuan 


yuen 
yiian 


Anciently,  lower  2d  tone.  (1)  A  road, 
a  path.    A.,  IX.  xi.  3 :  XVII.  xiv.     pjj 

yj ,  midway.    A.,  VI.  x.    Very  often 

with  a  moral  application,  the  path  as 
of  the  Mean,  in  the  Doctrine  of  the 
Mean,  et  a/.;  the  course  or  courses,  the 
ways  proper  to.  Sometimes,  it=the 
right  way,  what  is  right  and  true.  A., 
IV.  v.;  viii.;  ix.:  et  al.  (2)  Doctrine, 
principles,  teachings.  A.,  Iv.  xv.  1 :  V. 
vi.:  VI.  xv.:  XIV.  xxxviii.:  XV.  xxviii.: 

et  a/.,  xrpe.  ^  j||,  principled;  |&*||, 

unprincipled : — sometimes  spoken  of  in- 
dividuals, A.,  I.  xiv.;  but  generally  des- 
criptive of  the  State  of  a  country,  as  well 
or  ill-governed.  D.M.,  xxvii.  7.  A.,  JUL 
xxiv.:  XVI.  ii.  1,  2,  3 :  et  aJ^  saipe. 

Anciently  (as  now),  low.  3d  tone.  (1) 
To  proceed  by.  D.M.,  xxvii.  6.  (2)  To 
say,  to  mean.  G.L.C.,  iii.  4;  x.  5,  11.  To 
say,  to  speak  to.   A.,  XII.  xxiii.  1.  (The 

transl.,  and  note,  making  }!§[=*£>  a** 
wrong) :  An  XIV.  xxx.  2  :  XVI.  5.  (3) 
To  govern,  administer,  i.q^  |B.  A„  I. 
v.:  II.  iii.  1,  2.  (4)  To  lead  on,  or  for- 
ward. A.,  XIX.  xxv.  4.  This  also  in 
the  note  is  incorrectly  said  to  be  for 

(1)  To  reach  to.    D.M„  xviii.  8.    A., 

XIV.  xxiv.;  xxviii.  2.  To  carry  out.  A., 
XVI.  xi.  2:  VI.  xxviii.  2:  Xni.  xvii. 

(2)  Intelligent ;  to  know.  A.,  VI.  vi.:  X. 
xi.  2 :  XII.  xxii.  2 :  XUI.  v.:  XV.  xi.  (3) 
Universal,  reaching  everywhere.  D.M., 
i.  4 ;  xix.  1 ;  xxviii.     (4)  Distinguished, 

notorious.  A.,  Xn.  xx.  1, 2, 4,  5.   (6)  ^Q 

3^1,  a  man's  name.  A.,  XVIH.  xi.  ^| 

^C,  the  name  of  a  village.    A.,  IX.  ii. 

(1)  To  oppose.  G.L.c.,  x.  14.  A.,  II. 
v.  1,  2 ;  ix.:  IX.  iii.  2 :  XIII.  xv.  4,  5.  To 
act  contrary  to.  A.,  IV.  v.  3 :  VI.  v.: 
XII.  xx.  6.  (2)  To  be  distant  from.  1). 
M.,  xiii.  3.    To  leave.    A.,  V.  xviii.  2. 

(3)  To  abandon  a  purpose.  A.,  IV.  xviii. 

To  be  at  a  distance,  to  become  distant. 

G.L.C.,  ix.  2.  D.M.,  xiii.  1,  2,  3  ;  xv.  1. 
Am  XII.  xxii.  6 :  XVII.  ii.  Distant,  to  a 
distance ;  from  a  distance.  D.M.,  xx.  12, 
13,  14  ;  xxvi.  8.  A.,  I.  i.  2 ;  ix.:  IV.  xix.j 
xxix.-  VIII.  vii.  1.  2  :  IX.  xxx.  1,  2 :  XIII. 
xvi.  2:  XV.  xi.:  XVI.  i.  11,  12:  XIX.  iv. 
What  is  remote.  D.M.,  xxxiii.  1.    =far- 

seeing.  A.,  XII.  vi.  Observe  jig  jj£. 
D.M.,  xxix.  5.    An  XVII.  ix.  6. 

Up.  3d  tone.  To  put  away  to  a  dis- 
tance; to  keep  one's-self  at  a  distance 
from.  G.L.c,  x.  16.  D.M.,  xx.  14.  A., 
I.  xiii.:  VI.  xx.:  VIII.  iv.3:  XV.  x.  6; 
xiv.:  XVI.  xiii  5 :  XVU.  xx.  5. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


370 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PIIRASES. 


INDEX  vn. 


To  go,  proceed,  to.  A.,  VI.  Hi  2:  IX. 
xxix.:  XIII.  ix.  1 :  XVIII.  ix.  1,  2. 

To  have  the  mind  set  on  anything.  An 
IV.  x. 


j§|       *+  i£i>    To  withdraw,  Ue  hid,  from. 

tun      D.M.,  xi.  8. 

28       To  transfer,  remove.    A^  VL  ii:  X. 

tf'ftn  Tii.2. 
oh'ien 

jjjt       $^iM>  ***  niune  °*  on*  °*  Confucius' 

«*•     disciples ;  t g.  ^  ^g.    A.,  H.  v.  2,  8: 

VI.  xx.:  XH.  xxi.;  xxii:  XHL  iv.;  xix. 

jfi        To  neglect,  be  neglected.    AnVUI.ii. 

toei      2.    Observe  D.M.,  xvi  2. 

19       To  choose,  select.    A^XILxxii6. 


$€uen 
heuan 


Uun, 


urh 


ft 


To  follow,  to  observe,    A„  xi  2. 

Near.  What  is  near.  D.M.,  xv.  1. 
Observe  A,  XVU.  ix.  6.  —shallow. 
D.M.,vi 

THE  163d  RADICAL,    g,. 


A  city  or  town.    A„  V.  viL  8 :  XIV.  x. 

8.    A  hamlet.    A.,  V.  xxvii     ffif  ^, 

the  city  or  town  of  P<een.  A.,  XIV.  x.8. 

A  country,  a  State.    G.L.o.,  ii  8.    A., 

P<**9  I.x.l:IlI.xxii.8:elst9>«.  %*$£,* 
State  embracing  the  families  of  its  high 
officers.  A.,  XIX.  xxv.  4 :  et  al.  ffl^fr 
the  imperial  domain.    GX.C,  iii.  1. 

£R       The  imperial  sacrifice  to  Heaven.    D. 

keaou  M.,  xix.  6. 

chiao 

3Sf|5       Depraved.    A.,H.ii 

seay 
hsieh 

^fl$       ^r-jfl^jp^,  how  comPlet«  *»*  elegant ! 

yuh       An  III.  xiv. 

yii 

^J       (1)  A  village.    A,XVH.xia.    Joined 

{«?"*  with  ^.  A„  VI.  iii.  4.:  X.  i.  1 :  XHI.  xx. 

bsiang  ftn 

2.    ^J  ^,  villagers.    A.,  X.  x.  1,  2: 

XIII.  xxiv.      (2)  T£  ^pJJ,  the  name  of 

a  place.    A,  VIL  xxviii 

Up.  3d  tone.    Formerly.    A.,  XII.  xxii 

heang  4. 
hsiang 

^        Mean;  lowness.     A,  VIII.  iv.  3:  IX. 
gj       vi  8 :  XIV.  xlii  2.      §g  ^,  A.,  IX. 


vii.:  XVU.  xv. 


•8K        A  neighbour,  neighbours.  A.,  IV.  xxiv.: 

IU        V.  xxiii.    A  neighbourhood.    An  VI.  iii. 
4. 

jjjj       /.?.,  j£.    Iu  some  editions.     GX.C, 

hew    iii  2. 
ch'iu 

Hty       The  name  of  a  State.    A^  XV.  x  6; 

ch'ing  XVII.  xv. 
ch'eng 

B9J       The  native  city  of  Confucius.     A*  xv. 

tfOW 

tsou 

THE  164th  RADICAL,  g. 

g|J       To  appear  before.    G.L.a,x.5.    To  be 

p**i      the  co-equal  of.    D.M.,  xxvi.  5 ;  xxxL  4. 

^g        Wine;  spirits.    A.,  II.  viii:  IX.  xv.r 

Uew     X.  viii.  4,  5  ;  x.  1. 
chiu 

gty|       To  pledge-in  dunking.   DJ«I,xix.4. 

ch'ow 
ch'ou 

|g:       Sauce,  pickle.    A., X  viii* 

t&ang 

chiang 

f?       f£gf,tobeadoctor.    A^XIILxxii, 
e 

g|[       Vinegar.    A.,  V.  xxiii 
he 
hsi 

THE  IWth  RADICAL.  j|i. 
(1)  A  village,  or  neighbourhood.     A., 

An  XV.  v.  2.  (2)  A  measure  of  length, 
of  860  paces.  Anciently,=1897$  Eng. 
feet ;  now=1826  feet.  QXx.,  iii  I.  A^ 
VIIL  vi.  (3)  ]|(  Jl ,  the  name  of  & 
place  in  Ch«ing.    A.,  XIV.  ix. 

Heavy,  what  is  heavy.  A.,  VIIL  vii 
1,  2.  To  feel ;  to  be  heavy.  DM^  xxvi 
9.  Grave.  An  I.  viii  1.  Earnest, 
great.  D.M.,  xx.  13.  To  make  large. 
D.M.,  xx.  14.  To  attach  importance  to. 
A.,  XX.  i.  8. 

Rude,  uncultivated.    A„  VL  xvi:  TUT, 

iii  4.    [g^  \,  A.,  XI.  i  1. 

Measures  of  capacity.    A.,  XX.  i  6. 

A  measure,  limit.    A.,  X.  viii  4.    >K 

^9t  ]§f»  not  to  know  one's  own  capacity. 
A.,  XIX.  xxiv. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


a 

u 
u 


chung 


yen 


leang 
liang 


INDEX  VII. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


371 


THE  167th  RADICAL.  ^£. 

^fe*       MetaL    —arms.    D.M^x.4. 

kin 

chin 

£fe       An  axe,  a  hatchet.     $££&  D.M., 

ybo       xxxiii  4. 

fu 

A  battle-axe.    See  above. 


yueh 

l&jg        A  measure  containing  64  sAtap.     A., 

/bo      VI.iii.l. 
fa 

^J       To  angle.    A„VII.xxvi. 

tecum 
tiao 

^{^        Embroidered  clothes.     D3t*  xxxiiL  1. 

Arm       AnXVH.xxi.4. 

chin 

^£        To  engrave ;  be  engraved.     GX.c,  ii. 

ming    1. 

^       Alternatingly.    D.M.,  xxxii 

ts'oh 

ts'o 

£&       To  set  aside.     A.,  II.  xix.:  XJX  xxii.  8, 

K'oo     4. 

$3     4&  PI' whUe  !t  wa8  Jet  twan«in« ; 

fc'an^  spoken  of  the  sound  of  a  harpsichord, 
k'fcng  A.,  XI.  xxv.  7. 

4S       ?K  ^5'  a  ^^  w^^  a  woo^en  dapper. 

toh      A,m.xxiv. 

to 

To  bore ;  to  penetrate.     A.,  IX.  x.  1. 

,  to  bore  wood  to  procure  fire.  A.. 
XViI.~xxi  3. 
Abeli    A.,XVn.xi 
chung 

THE  168th  RADICAL.  j|. 

||        (l)Long.    A„X.vi.5.    ^  Jft,  the 

ch'ang  Long  treasury.    A.,  XI.  xiii.  1.    (2)  Said 
of  time.    A.,IX.ii.    =always.    A.,  VII. 

xxxvi     (3)   -Me  jfi,  a  recluse.     A., 

XVIII.  vi     ^J'p  Jl§>  a  disciple,  and 

son-in-law,  of  Conf.    A.,  V.  i. 
^       (1)  Up.  2d  tone.    Old.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  2. 
chang  Grown  up.    A.,  XTV.  xlvi.:  XVH.  vii.  6. 

(^I^).    Elders.    G.L.C.,  ix.  1 :  x.  2. 

Totreat  as  elders  should  be  treated.    G. 

Lx.,  x.  2.    (2)  To  preside  over,  high  in 

station.    G.L.c,  x.  23. 


tstcan 
tsuan 


Low.  3d  tone.    More  than.     A.,  X.  vi. 


f"l 


keen 
hsien 


THE  169th  RADICAL,  f^. 

(1)  A  door,  a  gate.  An  H.  xxii.  8 :  VL 
xiii.:  XII.  ii:  XTV.  xlii  Spoken  by  Conf. 
of  his  door,  tie,  his  school.  A.,  XL  ii.  1 : 
XIV.  i.  p|?  p^,  to  stand  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  gate  way.    A.,  X.  ix.  2.     W 

^,  disciples  An  IV.  xv.  2:  VH. 
ixviii«-  IX.  xi.:  XI.  x.  1,  2 ;  xiv.  2 :  XIX. 
iii.;xii    So,   P^^^p,A^Vm.iiU 

IX.  ii.  2.  (2)  ;g  P^,  the  name  of  a 
place,  or  barrier-pass.    An  XIV.  xli. 

A  boundary,  or  fending  line.  A.,  XIX. 
xi 

At  leisure ;  retired.    G.L.c,  vi  2. 


hien 
hsien 

m 

kien 
chien 


m 

Men 
chien 


yih 


An  interval.     Used  as  a  preposition^ 

following  its  regimen,  with  £  before  it, 
■^between.  A.,  IV.  v.  3 :  XI.  xxv.  4 ; 
XVIII.  iii.  ^jj|  |gj,  during  an  inter- 
mission of  sickness.    A.,  IX.  xi.  2. 

Up.  8d  tone.    To  find  a  crevice  or  flaw* 
A.,  VIII.  xxk  XI.  iv. 

The  threshold.    A.,  Xiv.  2. 


^Jj,   secret,   concealed.     D.M* 


***n.xviii8. 
ch'iieh 


chang  6. 


gan      xxxui  1, 
an 

(1)  To  put  aside,  exercise  reserve.    A., 

|  £rj.    A.,  Xm.  iii  4. 

(2)  ||9  "^,  a  blank  left  in  the  writing. 
An  XV.  xxv.  (8)  The  name  of  a  village. 
A,  XIV.  xlvii. 

iff        HI  J$t the  fir,t  ode  m  the  She-king. 

kwan  A^  III.  xx.:  VIII.  xv. 

kuan 

The  name  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples.  A* 

'ae     V.  v. 
k'ai 

B9       The  surname  of  one  of  Conf.  disciples. 

mm     An  VI.  vii.:  XL  ii.;  iv.;  xu\;  xiii. 

THE  170th  RADICAL.  J|L 

Ifjfr       The  name  of  a  city  in  Loo.    An  XTV* 
fang    XV. 
Bfe       The  steps,  or  staircase,  on  the  east. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


372 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX   VII. 


Rfr       1^^,  to  increMeone^  wealth.    A., 
foo       XI.  xvi.  1. 
fa 

ffi       Apit-falL    D.M„vii. 

tiring 
ching 

j5|g       (1)  Narrow.    A„  VI.  ix.     (2)  Rude, 
low      uncultivated ;  rudeness.    A.,  IX.  xiii.  2. 
low 

^       (1)  To  descend.    A^  X.  iv.  5.    (2)  To 
kextng  iurrender  (act.).    A.,  XVHL  viiL  2,  3. 
chiang 

K&       (1)  A  mound.    A.,XDCxxiv.    (2)  To 
ling      insult    D.M.,  xiv.  3. 

gA  t||£,  ^  ihed  wnere  tne  emperor 
spent  his  three  years  of  mourning.  A., 
XIV.  xliii.  1. 

(1)  To  arrange ;  display;  exert.    D.M., 

xix.3.    A.,  XVI.  i.  6.     (2)  The  name  of 

ch'en  a  State.  A.,  V.  xxi.:  VH.  xxx.:  XI.  ii.:  XV. 

i.  (3)  ^^  ("°n.  eP-  J^)»  **  officer 
ofTs'e.  A,  XIV.  xxii.  $|^  (hon. 
ep.),  another  officer  of  Ts«e.  A.,  V.  xviii. 
2.  ttt  jf£»  a  disciple  of  Conf.,  Lq  -f* 
4t.     A..  XVI.  xiii. 


ling 

m 

gan 


ch'in 


chin 
ch£n 


heen 
hsien 


The  arrangement  of  the  ranks  of  an 
army,»tactics.    A.,  XV.  i.  1. 

(l)|§ffi£toapit-faU.  D3L.vii.  (2) 
To  be  made  to  fall  into.    A^VI.xxiv. 


K?        F§  E'  the  family-ministers  belong- 
plei     ing  to  the  officers  of  a  State.     A.,  XVI. 


yu 


yung 


A  corner.    G.L.C.,  iii.  2.    A^VILviii. 


(1)  ^  ]|| ,  a  disciple  of  Tsftng  Sin, 
who  was  made  criminal  judge  of  Loo.  A,, 
XIX.  xix.    (2)  "H"  ||r,  the  name  of  a 

mountain.    A.,  XVI.  xii.    (3)  ||r  tf , 
the  name  of  an  usurping  officer  of  Loo. 
A.,  XVII.  i.    (4)  Name  of  an  assistant 
music-master  of  Loo.    A.,  XVIII.  ix.  5. 
To  fall.    D.M.,  xxii.  4. 


chuy 
chui 


|,  a  minister  of  Shun.    A.,  XIL 


yaou 
yao 

im 

ferae 
<*uieh 


xxii.  6. 


Steps  of  a  stair.    A.,  X.  iv.  5 ;  x.  2 : 
XV.xli.l:XIX.xxv.3. 


keen 
hsien 


iuy 
sui 

V?ji 

tse 

clii 


ym 


Dangerous,  difficult,  places,  ^f  Jj^f, 
to  walk  in  dangerous  paths.  D3L,  xir. 
4. 

2p»  B§,  an  officer  of  Chow.  A-, 
XVIII.  xi. 

A  conjunction.    A*  Vffl.  xx..  3. 


Secret ;  what  is  secret.  D.M.,  i.  3 ;  xii. 
1.  To  keep  secret,  conceal.  D.M-,  vL 
A,  VII.  xxiii.:  XHI.  xviii.  2.  To  Hve  in 
obscurity.  D.M.,  xi.  1.  A.,  VIII.  xiiL 
2 :  XVI.  vi.;  xi.  2 :  XVIH.  vi.  4  ;  viii.  4. 

THE  172d  RADICAL.  -g[. 


die 
chih 

m 

U'ze 
tz'fl 

m 

nga 
7» 


tseu 
chii 


ynng 


suy 
sui 


A  pheasant.    A„  X.  xviii  2. 


The  female  of  birds, 
pheasant.    A.,  X.  xviii  2. 


ahen- 


(1)  Frequently.  A„Vn.xvii.  (2)  The 
name  of  the  odes  in  the  second  and  third 
Tarts  of  the  She-king.  A.,  IX.  xiv.: 
XVII.  xviii. 

Qf|  Bf|'  the  name  of  the  flr8t  ode  ^ 
the  She-king.    A^  HI.  xx.:  VIIL  xr. 

(1)  The  name  of  an  ode  in  the  She- 
king.  A.,  III.  ii.  (2)  The  name  of  one 
of  Conf.  disciples,  Nan  Yung,  styled 
Chung-kung.    A.,  V.  iv.:  VL  L:  XII.  iL 

Although.  G.L.c,  ii.  3;  ix.  2;  et  al. 
D.M.,  xxviii.  4 ;  xxxiii.  2.  A.,  I.  viic  VL 
ix.:  IX.  iii.  2  :  et  al.,  scepe.  It  is  often  fol- 
lowed by  an  adjective,  without  a  verb, 
and  may  be  translated  even,  even  in  the  com 
of    Observe  A.,  VI.  xxiv^  and  IX.  xviii. 

To  settle.    A^  X.  xviii.  1. 


tseik 

chi 

!» 

Fowls,  a  fowl.     GX.c,  x. 

22.     A* 

XVII.  iv.  2:  XVIII.  vii.  3. 

chi 

B 

To  be  scattered ;  dispersions. 

A^XVL 

u 

L12. 

ii 

m 

Low.  3d  tone.    To  go  away 

from;  to 

le 

beleft.    D.M^i.2. 

ii 

Difficult ;  to  be  difficult ;  difficulty.  A* 
II.  viii.:  VI.  xiv.:  VII.  xxv.  3 ;  xxviii.  1 : 
VIIL  xx.  3 :  XII.  iii.  3 :  XIII.  xv.  2,  3 : 
et  al  What  is  difficult.  A-,  VI.  xxi 
XIV.  ii.  2:  XIX.  xv. 

Low.  3d  tone.    Trouble,  calamity.  A* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


index  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES. 


373 


(1)  To  carve.    A.,  V,  xix.  1.    (2)  Part 
teacu   of  a  double  surname.    A.,  V.  t. 


tiao 


THE  173d  RADICAL. 


^Ppt  The  name  of  a  sacrifice  to  pray  for 
yu  rain.  They  danced  about  the  altars. 
ya        Hence  |J|  ^  =  rain-altars     A.,  XI. 

xxv.  7 :  XII.  xxi. 
^&       Clouds,  a  cloud.    A.,  VII.  xv. 


yun 
yiin 


& 


shirang 
shuang 


Thunder.    A.,  X.  xv.  6. 
Hoar-frost.    D.M.,  xxxi.  4. 
Dew.    D.M.,  xxxi  4. 


la 

f 

pa 


li^g 


To  exercise  authority  over  men  by 
strength  ;  to  make  to  have  such  authority. 
An  XIV.  xviii.  2. 

el*  (hon.  ep.)  /k,  a  duke  of  Wei 
An  XIV.  xx.:  XV.  i. 

THE  174th  RADICAL.   ||. 


Calm  and  unperturbed;  tranquil.    G. 

Uang    L.T.,  2.    A.,  VI.  xxi. 
cheng 

THE  175th  RADICAL.   f£. 

3E        Not.    Scepe.    It  very  often  stands  at 

fd  the  beginning  of  the  clause,  or  member 
to  which  it  belongs,  and  =  it  is  not  that 
...;  if  not,  &c.    =what  is  contrury  to.    D. 

M.,  xx.  14.    A.,  XVII.  i.  2.     0  ^>, 

not  but.    An  affirmation.    A.,  VI.  x. 

Not.    D.M.,  xxxlii.  4. 


me 
mi 


THE  176th  RADICAL.   |jjj]. 

jgj        Tlie  face.     t§  rjj|j ,  the  face  to  the 
meen    south ;  the  position  of  a  sovereign.    AM 
""^   VI.  i.  1 :  XV.  iv.    )jj§  j§|f  the  face  to- 
wards a  wall.    A.,  XVII.  x. 

THE  177th  RADICAL,   "ft?. 


Tp.       Tlie  portions  of  armour,  made  of  lca- 

h'k      thcr.    D.M.,  x.  4. 
ko 


ketih 
chii 


peen 
pien 


To  bend. 


A  whip.    A.,  VII.  xi. 


,  A.,  X.  iv.  1,  4 ;  v.  1. 


8ff        I.q.  1KB,  a  bare  hide,  a  hide  with  the 

la        hair  taken  off.    A,  XII.  viii.  3. 

kuo 

THE  178tii  RADICAL.   jeJJi  . 

jj^       To  store  up,  to  keep.    A.,  IX.  xii. 

irdn 
wen 

THE  180th  RADICAL.   §•. 


j|g        Tlie  music  of  Shun.    A.,  HI.  xxv.:  VH. 

shaou,  xiii.:  XV.  x.  6. 
shao 

THE  181st  RADICAL.    jl|. 

MJJ        To  be  obedient  to,  in  accordance  with. 

shun     D.M.,  xx.  17.    A.,  II.  iv.  5:  XIII.  iii.  5. 
To  have  complacence.    D.M.,  xv.  1 3. 

^S        05  ^5  $3 1  *  8nort  time>  an  in8tant. 

8eu       D.M.,  i.  2.    (2)  ^fc  ^,  one  of  Conf. 

disciples,  i.q.  jj^fe  jg.    A.,  XIII.  iv.  2. 

$3        Praise  songs.    The  name  of  the  last 

*w//y     Part  of  the  She-king.    A.,  IX.  xiv. 

B|[        To  desire  ;  to  wish ;  to  like.    D.M.,  xiii. 

yuen  3 ;  xiv.  1.  A.,  V.  xxv.  2,  3,  4 :  XI.  xxv. 
yuan    6. 

§P(  W  IH  fe'  the  countenance-  A.. 
ye/i  VIII,  iv.  3 :  X.  iv.  5 :  XVI.  vi.  (2)  The 
yen      surname  of  Conf .  favourite  disciple.    Seo 

[Bj»nd#3-    ^J^.HwVb  father. 
JU  XI.  viii. 

Bit        tfigP  $1'  tne  name  °'  a  8maU  State. 

cAtten   A^XVI.i. 

chuan 

J|||       Sorts,  classes.    A.,  XV.  xxxviii. 

Utif 

lei 

jjgf        To  fall;  fallen.  A,XVI.i.G.  J^ftjj, 

teen     in  peril.    An  IV.  v.  8. 

tien 

IJH        To  contemplate.    G.L.c,  i.2.    To  have 
hoo       regard  to.    D.M.,  xiii.  4.    To  turn  the 
ku       head  round  to  look.    A.,  X.  iii.  4 ;  xvii. 
2. 


To  be  manifest ;  illustrious.    D.M.,  i. 
;  xxvi.  1 ;  xxxiii.  1 .   Obs* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


been     3;  xvi.5;  xviii.2;  xxvi.  l;xxxiii.  1.    Obs« 
hsien   xxxiii.  5. 


374 


CHUTESE   CHARACTERS  AND   PHRASES. 


INDEX    VO. 


f*ng 
feng 


shih 


tsze 
Utt 


ytn 

* 

3/in 


fan 


$hih 


paou 
pao 

m 

yang 


yong 


yu 


nei 


THE  182d  RADICAL.  Jj^. 

The  wind.  D.M„  xxxiii.  1.  A.,  X. 
xri.  5 :  XII.  xix.  To  enjoy  the  breexe ; 
to  take  the  air.    An  XI.  xxr.  7. 

THE  188d  RADICAX.  ^. 
To  fly.    D.M.,  xii3. 

THE  184th  RADICAL.  ^£. 

(1)  To  eat.  G.L.c,  tU.  2.  D.M.,  iv. 
2.  AM  I.  xir.:  ef  a/^  j«y.  aeto  consume. 
GX.C,  x.  19.  «=to  enjoy.     A-,  XI.  xi.  8. 

To  be  eaten.  A.,  XVII.  Tii.  4.  $$j£ 
^  ffl,  a  meal's  time.    A^  IV.  t. 8.   « 

food.  D.M.,  xix.  8.  A.,  IV.  ix^  Vni. 
xxi.:  X.  Tii.  2:  ei  al.  (2)  An  eclipse. 
A.,  XIX.  xxi. 

(1)  Rice ;  food  generally.  A.,  II.  Tiii.; 
VI.  ix.:  VII.  xt.:  X.  riii.  1,  2,  4, 10:  XIV. 
x.  8.  (2)  To  gire  food  to ;  to  feast.  A  ., 
XVHL  vii.  8. 

To  drink.  D.M„  it.  8.  A.,  X.  x.  1. 
As  a  noun.    A.,  VI.  ix.:  VIII.  xxi 

Up.  3d  tone.  To  give  to  drink.  A., 
m.Tii. 

Meat  orer  done,    y^  ||f  ~jfi  ^,  he 

did  not  eat  anything  that  was  over-done. 
A.,  X.  Tiii.  2.  (This  clause  has  slipt  out 
of  the  translation.) 

(1)  to  eat    |R^g^A.VU.xT.; 

XIV.  x.  8.    In  those  instances,  perhaps 

£E=for  food.    To  taste.    A„  X.  xiii.  2. 

^,  gy.    A.,  XVIII.  ix. 

To  ornament.  A.,  X.  Ti  1.  Obs.  j^ 
fg^.  A,XIV.ix.l. 

To  eat  to  the  the  full :  satiety.  A.,  I. 
xiT.:  VII.  ix.:  XVII.  xxii. 

To  nourish ;  to  bring  up.    GX.c,  ix.  2. 

A.,  V.  xt.  =to  haTe  about  one ;  to  man- 
age.   A.,  XVILxxt. 

Low.  8d  tone.  To  nourish,  to  support 
a  superior.    A.,  II.  Tii. 

That  which  is  oTer.  j£  $fe*  the  others. 
A.,  II.  xriii.  2 :  VL  t.:  VIII.  xi.  Super- 
abundant. A.,  I.  Ti.  ^J  ^,  having 
excess.    D.M.,  xiii.  4. 

(1)  Hunger,  want.    A.,  XV.  xxxi.  (2) 

Rotten,  gone.  A,  X.  Tiii.  2  ;  spoken  of 
fish. 


Hungry. 
XVI.  xii.  1. 


to  die  of  famine.     A, 


Rice  sour,  or  with  a  bad  odour.     A^  X. 
Tiii  2. 


|jgl  }{|^  ^£,  the  sheep  offered  at  the  inaa- 
he  guration  of  the  new  moon.  A.,  ILL  xvii 
ch'i      1. 

|||        ProTisions.  A.,  X.  xri  4.   ^Q^^- 

tsican  to  set  before  one's  elders.    A.,  LL  TiiL 
chuan 

/f§l        ^^i  rice  injured  by  damp.     A^  X. 
e       Tiii.  2. 


Ice 
chi 


kin 
chin 


A  famine; — specifically  of  the  graim 

crop.    A.,  XII.  ix.    -£»  ffl|,  a  famine. 
A.,  XI.  xxr.  4. 
A  famine  {—specifically  of  Tegetablea. 

See' 


jB        To  present;  anything  presented.    A-, 

kwei    X.  xi.  2 ;  xt.  2. 
kuei 

JSE       To  enjoy ;  to  accept  a  sacrifice.     D.M, 

heang  xvii.  1 ;  xviii.  2. 

hsiang 

THE  185th  RADICAL,  "|§\ 

"§|"        ~p|  J&,  the  name  of  a  mountain.    A* 

ghow    XVI.  xii.  1. 
shou 

"2£        Upper  3d  tone.     The  direction  of  the 

thow    head.    A.,  X.  xiii  3. 

shou 

THE  187th  RADICAL.   Jj^. 

j||  (1)  A  horse,  horses.  G.L.a,x.22.  A^ 
ma  II.  Tii.:  V.  XTiii.  2;  xxr.  2:  VI.  iii.  2; 
ma      xiii.:  X.  xii.;  xt.  2 :  XV.  xxtu  XVL  xii. 

1*  (2)  ft\  Jfe>  &  double  surname.  A-, 
XII.  iii.;  iv.;  t.  /g  jj|,  also  a  double 
surname.    An  VH.  xxx. 

p'iuy    without  using  a  boat.    A-,  VIL  x.  S. 
BSD       A  team  of  four  horses.    A.,  XII.  Tin. 
sze       2:  XVI.  xii. 

8Zfl 

^§8        The  yoking  of  a  carriage,    A^  X.  xiii 

kea       4. 

cliia 

|&       Red.    Spoken  of  a  calf  to  be  sacrificed* 

nitty     A*,  VI.  iT. 
Using 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


INDEX  vn. 


CHINESE   CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


375 


j§|  To  be  proud;  pride.  GX.c0x.  18.  D. 
keaou  M.,  xxvii.  7.  A.,  I.  xv.:  VHI.  xi.:  XHI. 
chiao  xxvi.:  XIV.  xi.:  XVI.  v.:  XX.  ii.  1,  2. 

Kg       To  drive.    D.M„  vii 


fceu 
chHi 

^S 
Ve 

ch'i 

|H 

k*een 
chHen 

M 

kwa 
kua 


A  horse  that  could  go  1,000  le  iu  a  day, 
=  a  good  horse.    A.,  XIV.  xxxt. 

Hr*>|j^,  the  designation  of  one  of  Conf . 
disciples.    A.,  VI.  vii.:  XI.  ii.;  iv.;  xiii. 


peen 
pien 


t«i 


Jcaou 
kao 


hwei 
kuei 


2p?  SB,  the  name  of  an  officer  of  the 
Chow  dynasty.    A,  XVIII.  xi. 

The  name  of  a  town.    A.,  XIV.  x.  3. 


THE  188th  RADICAL.  ^. 

(1)  The  body.  G.L.c,vi.4.  jJEjff, 
the  four  limbs.  D.M.,xxiv.  A.,  XVIII. 
vii.  1.  .  (2)  As  a  verb.  To  treat  with 
consideration.  D.M.,  xx.  12,  13.  To 
enter  into,  be  incorporate  with.  D.M., 
xvi.  2. 

THE  189th  RADICAL.  ^J. 

(1)  High.  D.M„  xvi.;  xxvi.  8,  4,  5,  8 ; 
xxvii.  6.  A.,  IX.  x.  1.  (2)  j|rf  2J?,  th« 
hon.  epithet  of  the  emperor  J^"J".  A., 
XIV.  xliii.  A  name.  (3)  ^  /£  ^, 
A.,  V.  xxiii. 

THE  190th  RADICAL.  J|£. 
The  hair.    A.,  XIV.  xviii.  2. 


THE  191st  RADICAL,  f^. 


■h       To  contend;   quarrelsomeness. 

tow     XVL  vii. 
toil 

THE  194th  RADICAL,    St. 


Manes,  the  spirit  or  spirits  of  tho  de- 
parted. A.,  II.  xxiv.:  XI.  xi 
spiritual  beings ; — sometimes  exclusively 
names.  D.M.,  xvi;  xxix.  3,  4.  A.,  VI. 
xx.:  VIII.  xxi. 

The  name  of  a  great  family.  A.,  XIV. 
xii. 


t«ui 


3ftj  j|g  a  high  officer  of  Sung,  an  ene- 
my of  Conf.    A„VH.xxii. 

THE  195th  RADICAL.  # 


-^1        (1)  A  fish,  fishes,  fish.     DM.,  xii.  3; 
J«        xxvi.  9.    A.,  X.  viii.  2.    (2)||^,an 

historiographer.  A.,  XV.  vi.  (3)  A A'ffi , 

the  designa.  of  Conf.  son.    A.,  XVI.  xiii. 
1 :  XVIII.  x. 

^        (1)  Dull,  blunt.     A„  XI.  xvii.  2.     (2) 

loo       The  name  of  a  State.     A.,  HI.  xxiii  ^  V. 

lu        ii.:  VI.  xxii.;  et  al.  '  ^  ^,  A„  XVIII. 


ffldp  Up.  2d  tone.     Few,  rare ;  seldom.     G. 

seen  L.C.,  viii.  1.    D.M.,  iii.;  iv.  2.    An  I.  ii. 

hsien  1 ;  iii.:  IV.  xxii.:  VI.  xxvii.:  XV.  iii.: 
XVII.  xvu. 

j$j£  An  officer  of  Wei.     A.,  VI.  xiv.:  XIV. 

tlo  xxii. 

JjjjB  The  name  of  Confucius'  son.    A.,  XI. 

h  vii.  2 :  XVI.  xiii.  2,  3. 


THE  190th  RADICAL. 


Jjf        A  bird,  birds.    G.L.c,  iii.  2.    A.,  VIII. 
neaou  iv.:  IX.  viii.:  XVU.  ix.  7 :  XVHI.  vi.  4. 
niao 

JH         A  fabulous  bird,  the  phoenix.     A.,  IX. 

Jung    viii.    Applied  to  Confucius.    A.,  XVIII. 
fdng    vi.  I. 

RJ|        (1)  The  cry  of  a  bird.    A.,  VIII.  iv.  2. 

ming    (2)  To  sound,  to  beat.    A.,  XI.  xvi.  2. 

j|?        A  kind  of  hawk.    D.M.,  xii.  3. 

yuen 
yuan 

Used  as  =  the  bull's  eye  in  a  target. 
D.M.,  xiv.  5. 


ne 
ni 


1* 

hwang 
huang 


THE  198th  RADICAL.  Jf||. 
A  fawn.    A.,  X.  vi  4. 

THE  200th  RADICAL.  j£|. 
Hemp ;  « linen.    A.,  IX.  iii.  1. 

THE  201st  RADICAL,  jjjf. 
Yellow.    G.L.C.,  iii  2.    A.,  X.  vi.  4. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


376 


CHINESE  CHARACTERS  AND  PHRASES. 


INDEX  vn. 


11 


7*ih 


THE  202d  RADICAL.  ^. 

Black.   %  ^,  the  black-haired  peo- 
ple, =  the  people.    G.L.c,  x.  14. 

THE  208d  RADICAL.  Jg. 

To  be  silent,  silence.     D3L,  xxxvii.  7. 
A.,  VTL  ii. 

To  be  dismissed  from  office.  A,,XVHI. 


ch'uh 
ch4u 


teen 
lien 

m 

tang 


fuh 
fu 


The  name  of  *ff  $f>  one  of  Conf.  dis- 
ciples.   A.,  XI.  zxt.  7. 

(1)  A  village.    A.,  IX.  ii:  XTV.  xlvii. 

1.  SP^,A^VLiii.4:X.i.l.  (2) 
A  class.  A.,  VII.  i.  s=school,  pupils.  An 
V.  xxi.  2£  ji* ,  we,  among  us,  A., 
XIII.  xviii.  1,  2.  (3)  A  partizan,  parti- 
zanly.    A.,  VII.  xxx.  2 :  XV.  xxi. 

THE  204th  RADICAL. 


An  apron,  belonging  to  the  emperor's 
dress  at  sacrifices.    An  VIII.  xxi. 

THE  205th  RADICAL.    ||. 

A  large  tortoise.    P.M.,  xxvi.  9. 


yuan 


A  turtle.    D.M.,  xxvi.  9. 
JSr       An  iguana.    D.M.,  xxvi.  9, 


peS 
pieh 


<*© 


THE  207th  RADICAL.  ||J 

||j?       (1)  A  drum,  drums.     A.,  XL  xvi.  2; 

koo      XVH.xi.    (2)  Drum-master.  A^XVIU. 

ku       ix.  3.    (3)  To  strike :  to  play  on.    D.M., 

xv.  2.    A.,  XI.  xxv.  2.   Anciently,  for  the 

third  of  these  senses  the  character  §£ 

was  used. 

j«|       A  kind  of  hand-drum,     lft  ^,  to 

r(oou   shake  the  hand-drum.    A.,  XVHL  ix.  4. 
t'ao 

THE  210th  RADICAL.  SK. 


tsle 
chl 


chae 
chai 


tzfl 


(1)  To  regulate.    G.L.t.,  4,  5 :  a,  viii. 

1, 2 ;  ix.  1, 5.    To  give  uniformity  to.    A, 
II.  iii.  1, 2.    To  equal ;  be  equal  with.  A, 

IV.  xvii.    (2)  The  name  of  a  State.    An 

V.  xviii.  2 :  VI.  iii.  1,  2 ;  xxii.:  VII.  xiii.; 
XH.  xi.:  XVI.  xii.:  XVIII.  iii.;  iv.;  ix. 

— XTV.  xvi;  xviL;  xviii.     (3)   In  ^ 

tit  is  the  hon.  epithet.     A.,  V.  xxii.: 
L  xiv.  2 :  XVI.  xik  XVffl.  viii.  1,  2. 
To  fast ;  religious  adjustment.    D3L, 

xvi.  3 ;  xx.  14 ;  xxxi.  1.    A.,  VII.  xii:  X. 
vii.  1,  2 ;  viii.  10. 

The  lower  edge  of  a  garment.    A.,  X. 

iv.  4.    ?S5  -g",  in  moujrning.    A.,  IX. 
ix.:  X.  xvi.  2. 


THE  211th  RADICAL.  ]§ 

*$|       The  teeth.    A„  XIV.  x.  3.    Used  for 

ch'e     years,  age.    D.M.,  xix.  4. 
ch'ih 

THE  212th  RADICAL.  |fl|. 
§g        A  dragon,  dragons.    D.M.,  xxvi.  9. 


lung 


THE  213th  RADICAL.  ffe. 


Hi       A  tortoise.    D.M.,  xxiv.    A„  XVL  i 

kwei     7, 
kuei 


END  OF  VOL.  I, 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


,/ 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


1  < 


* 


14  DAY  USE 

RCTURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 

LOAN  DEPT. 

UMffWAU  ONLY— TIL.  NO.  642-3405 

This  book  if  doe  oa  die  last  date  stamped  below,  or 

on  the  date  to  which  renewed. 

Renewed  books  axe  subject  to  immediate  recall. 


tf** 


*>\*®$ 


&F- 


-y 


# 


^ 


APR    3 


ma- 


M  Vi  7 


_imn  121980 


mi 


2J0 


Ln5lA-60m-6.'«9 
(J9O96il0)476-A-32 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


mk 


*7TJf& 


f 

""""""l 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


■"'■:■■■■■■■.■■■■:■■•■-■■ 


