■ST- 


<^  PRINCETON,    N.    J.  '* 


% 


^j;f,^^^vL    i/i^i/i^yjA^ 


Shelf. 


Division . 
Section  ...,  Xt. 
Number 


....^..L.  LI  0.5" 


ny^i 


•  w^^^  • • •• 


l$y  tijc  same  Stutijor. 


Crown  8vo,  pp.  xvi,-264,  with  8  Plates,  cloth,  los.  6d., 

A   GRAMMAR   OF   THE   URDU   OR  HINDUSTANI 

LANGUAGE. 

"Lucidity  of  expression,  descending  at  times  almost  to  the  colloquial 
style,  an  admirable  clearness  of  arrangement,  and  careful  study  of  all  the 
recorded  forms  of  the  written  language,  are  apparent  on  every  i)age.  No 
less  able  and  admirably  lucid  is  the  treatment  of  the  verb,  in  which  all 
the  numerous  combinations  which  this  supremely  flexible  language  pos- 
sesses, are  drawn  out  in  a  logical  and  transparently  clear  sequence.  The 
syntax  is  particularly  good,  bringing  out  in  the  clearest  and  most  refresh- 
ingly intelligent  way,  in  spite  of  occasional  misapprehensions,  the  many- 
sided  expressiveness  of  a  language  which  has  no  parallel  for  vivacity 
and  graceful  turns  of  phrase,  except  in  the  most  polished  Parisian 
French.  We  conclude,  then,  by  congratulating  Professor  Dowson  on 
having  written  by  far  the  best  Urdu  Grammar  that  has  yet  appeared, 
and  having  thus  rendered  the  acquisition  of  the  most  elegant  and  useful 
of  all  the  Indian  vernaculars  both  easy  and  pleasant  to  the  student." — 
The  Indian  Antiquary. 

Crown  Bvo,  pp.  loo,  limp  cloth,  2s.  6d. , 

A  HINDUSTANI  EXERCISE   BOOK: 

Containing  a  Series  of  Passages  and  Extracts  adapted  for 
Translation  into  Hindustani. 

Crown  Bvo,  pp.  viii.-i56,  cloth,  7s., 

IKHWANU-S  SAFA;   OR,  BROTHERS   OF   PURITY. 

Translated  from  the  Hindustani. 

"  It  has  been  the  translator's  object  to  adhere  as  closely  as  possible  to 
the  original  text,  while  rendering  the  English  smooth  and  intelligible  to 
the  reader,  and  in  this  design  he  has  been  throughout  successful."— 
Saturday  Revieu: 

Demy  Bvo,  cloth, 

THE   HISTORY  OF  INDIA, 

AS   TOLD   BY   ITS   OWN   HISTORIANS. 

The  Muhammadan  Period.  Edited  from  the  Posthumous  Papers  of 
the  late  Sir  H.  M.  Elliot,  K.C.B.,  East  India  Company's  Bengal  Civil 
Service.  Revised  and  continued  by  Professor  John  Dowson,  M.R.A.S., 
Staff  College,  Sandhurst. 

Vol.  I.,  with  a  portrait  of  Sir  H.  M.  Elliot,  iBs.  ;  Vol.  II.,  iBs.  ;  Vol. 
IIL,  24s.  ;  Voh  IV.,  21S.  ;  Vol.  V.,  21s.  ;  Vol.  VL,  21s.  ;  Vol.  VIL,  21s.  ; 
Vol.  VIIL,  24s. 

London  :  TRIJBNER  &  CO.,  Ludgate  Hill. 


TRUBNER'S 


ORIENTAL    SERIES, 


VL 


BALLANTYNE,    HANSON    ANn   CO. 
EDINBURGH    AND    LONDON 


CLASSICAL  DICTIONARY 


OF 


HINDU  MYTHOLOGY  AND   RELIGION, 

GEOGRAPHY,  HISTORY,  AND 

LITERATURE. 


BY 


JOHX    ^)OWSON,    M.K.A.S. 

LATE  PROFESSOR  OF  HINDUSTANI,  STAFF  COLLEGE. 


LONDON: 
TKUBXEE    &    CO,    LUDGATE    HILL. 

1879. 

[All  rights  reserved.] 


PREFACE. 


In  this  work  an  endeavour  has  been  made  to  supply  the 
long-felt  want  of  a  Hindu  Classical  Dictionary.  The  late 
Professor  Wilson  projected  such  a  work,  and  forty  years 
ago  announced  his  intention  of  preparing  one  for  the 
Oriental  Translation  Fund,  but  he  never  accomplished  his 
design.  This  is  not  the  first  attempt  to  supply  the  void. 
Mr.  Garrett,  Director  of  Public  Instruction  in  Mysore, 
published  in  India  a  few  years  ago  a  "  Classical  Dic- 
tionary of  India,"  but  it  is  of  a  very  miscellaneous  char- 
acter, and  embraces  a  good  deal  of  matter  relating  to  the 
manners  and  customs  of  the  present  time.  It  has  not 
obtained  favour  in  Europe,  and  it  cannot  be  considered 
as  any  obstacle  in  the  way  of  a  more  complete  and 
systematic  work. 

The  main  portion  of  this  work  consists  of  mythology, 
but  religion  is  bound  up  with  mythology,  and  in  many 
points  the  two  are  quite  inseparable.  Of  history,  in  the 
true  sense,  Sanskrit  possesses  nothing,  or  next  to  nothing, 
but  what  little  has  been  discovered  here  finds  its  place. 
The  chief  geographical  names  of  the  old  writers  also  have 
received  notice,  and  their  localities  and  identifications  are 
described  so  far  as  present  knowledge  extends.  Lastly, 
short  descriptions  have  been  given  of  the  most  frequently 
mentioned  Sanskrit  books,   but  only  of  such   books   as 

h 


vi  PREFACE. 

are  likely  to  be  found  named  in  the  works  of  European 
writers. 

It  must  be  understood  from  the  first  that  this  work 
is  derived  entirely  from  the  publications  of  European 
scholars.  I  have  not  resorted  to  oricjiiial  Sanskrit  autho- 
rities.  My  remaining  span  of  life  would  at  the  best  be 
quite  insufficient  for  an  investigation  of  their  manifold 
and  lengthy  volumes.  But  I  have  gleaned  from  many 
European  writers,  and  have  sought  to  present  a  summary 
of  the  present  condition  of  our  knowledge  of  the  religion 
and  mythology  of  Ancient  India. 

The  work  is  no  doubt  very  defective.  The  full  harvest 
of  Sanskrit  learning  has  not  yet  been  gathered  in,  but 
the  knowledge  which  has  been  stored  by  former  labourers 
ought  to  be  made  readily  available  for  the  service  of  their 
successors,  to  lighten  their  labours  and  strengthen  them 
for  onward  progress.  There  is  nothing  in  this  book  for 
which  authority  is  not  to  be  found  in  some  one  or  more 
of  the  many  works  upon  Hindu  literature  and  religion, 
but  the  aim  has  been  to  condense  and  brins^  to<iether  in 
a  compact  form  that  information  which  lies  scattered  in 
many  volumes.  Hindu  mythology  is  so  extensive,  and 
the  authorities  are  often  so  at  variance  with  each  other, 
that  I  cannot  but  feel  diffident  of  the  success  of  my 
labours.  I  have  worked  diligently  and  carefully,  I  hope 
also  intelligently,  but  mistakes  have  no  doubt  been  made, 
and  it  may  be  that  matters  have  been  passed  over  which 
ought  to  have  been  recorded,  and  others  have  been  printed 
which  miglit  well  have  been  left  unnoticed.  But  while 
I  have  no  expectation  of  any  near  approach  to  perfection, 
I  do  hope  that  a  good  beginning  has  been  made,  and 
that  a  basis  has  been  laid  on  which  a  greater  and  more 
worthy  structure  may  hereafter  be  raised.     If  the  work  is 


PREFACE.  Yii 

received  with  anything  like  favour,  I  shall  be  constantly 
on  the  watch  to  improve  it,  and  honest  criticism  will  be 
welcomed  and  carefully  considered. 

The  book  would  be  more  valuable  and  interesting  were 
it  well  illustrated  with  plates  and  cuts,  but  the  work  is  a 
speculative  one,  and  does  not  directly  appeal  to  a  large 
field  of  students  and  readers.  The  expense  of  befitting 
illustrations  would  be  heavy,  too  great  to  be  at  once 
ventured  upon.  But  if  the  work  is  approved,  and  illus- 
trations are  desired,  an  attempt  will  be  made  to  supply 
the  want  by  a  series  of  plates  containing  a  selection  of 
subjects  from  the  stores  of  our  museums  and  from  other 
sources. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  specify  all  the  works  that  have 
been  used  in  the  compilation  of  this  book.  Some  have 
been  referred  to  occasionally,  but  tlie  mainstays  through- 
out have  been  the  "  Original  Sanskrit  Texts  "  of  Dr.  Muir 
and  the  works  of  the  late  Professor  H.  H.  Wilson,  includ- 
ing his  translation  of  the  i^t'g-veda,  and  more  especially 
that  of  the  VishTiu  Pura?ia,  republished  with  additional 
notes  by  Dr.  FitzEdward  Hall.  I  have  also  levied 
numerous  contributions  from  the  writings  of  Williams, 
Max  Mtiller,  Eoth,  Bohthlingk,  Lassen,  Weber,  Whitney, 
WoUheim  da  Fonseca,  and  many  others  too  numerous  to 
mention. 


INTRODUCTION. 


The  Aryan  settlers  on  the  banks  of  the  Indus  and  in  the  land 
of  the  Five  Rivers  were  possessors  of  a  large  number  of  hymns 
addressed  to  the  elements  and  powers  of  nature.  Some  of  these 
hymns  they  no  doubt  brought  from  their  earlier  homes  to  the 
West,  but  others  were  composed  after  they  had  reached  the 
land  of  their  adoption.  These  ancient  hymns  cover  a  long 
period,  the  length  and  the  era  of  which  can  only  be  conjectured, 
but  fifteen  hundred  years  before  Christ  is  about  the  mean  of 
the  various  ages  assigned  to  them.  The  hymns  form  what  is 
called  the  i^^'g-veda  Sanhita,  a  collection  which  embraces  all  the 
extant  compositions  of  the  early  Aryans.  It  is  the  i^/g-veda 
which  is  of  primary  importance  in  Hindu  religion  and  mytho- 
logy ;  the  other  Vedas  are  later  in  date,  and  the  second  and 
third  Yedas  consist  almost  exclusively  of  hymns  derived  from 
the  Rig,  but  specially  arranged  for  religious  purposes.  The 
fourth  or  Atharva-veda  borrows  less  from  the  i?zg-veda,  but  it 
is  considerably  later  in  date,  and  is  of  a  different  character. 

The  Aryan  hymns  of  the  Veda  embody  the  ideas  of  the 
Indian  immigrants.  These  ideas  were  inherited  from  their 
forefathers.  They  were  originally  the  property  of  the  united 
progenitors  of  the  Aryan  races,  and  the  offshoots  of  this  great 
human  stock  have  spread  their  primitive  ideas  over  a  large  por- 
tion of  the  earth.  In  the  Vedic  h^nnns  the  ideas  and  myths 
appear  in  their  simplest  and  freshest  forms,  directly  connected 
with  the  sources  from  which  they  sprang  by  clear  ties  of  lan- 
guage. Comparative  philology  and  mythology  go  hand  in  hand ; 
and  as  the  language  of  the  Vedas  has  proved  the  great  critical 
instrument  in  the  construction  of  the  science  of  philology,  so  the 


X  INTRODUCTION. 

simple  myths  of  the  Vedic  hymns  furnish  many  clues  for  un- 
ravelling the  science  of  mythology.  For  where  the  etymology 
of  a  mythic  name  or  term  yields  a  distinct  sense  of  its  mean- 
ing, the  origin  of  the  myth  is  not  far  to  seek.  The  language  of 
the  Vedas  has  in  many  instances  supplied  this  clue,  and  led 
to  a  definite  comprehension  of  what  was  previously  hidden  and 
obscure.  The  Yedic  hymns  have  preserved  the  myths  in  their 
primitive  forms,  and,  says  Max  Midler,  "  JSTowhere  is  the  wide 
distance  which  separates  the  ancient  poems  of  India  from  the 
most  ancient  literature  of  Greece  more  clearly  felt  than  when  we 
compare  the  growing  myths  of  the  Veda  with  the  full-grown 
and  decayed  myths  on  which  the  poetry  of  Homer  is  founded. 
The  Veda  is  the  real  Theogony  of  the  Aryan  races,  while  that  of 
Hesiod  is  a  distorted  caricature  of  the  original  image." 

The  Aryan  settlers  were  a  pastoral  and  agricultural  people, 
and  they  were  keenly  alive  to  those  influences  which  affected 
their  prosperity  and  comfort.  They  knew  the  effects  of  heat 
and  cold,  rain  and  drought,  upon  their  crops  and  herds,  and 
they  marked  the  influence  of  warmth  and  cold,  sunshine  and 
rain,  wind  and  storm,  upon  their  own  personal  comfort.  They 
invested  these  benign  and  evil  influences  with  a  personality; 
and  behind  the  fire,  the  sun,  the  cloud,  and  the  other  powers  of 
nature,  they  saw  beings  who  directed  them  in  their  beneficent 
and  evil  operations.  To  these  imaginary  beings  they  addressed 
their  praises,  and  to  them  they  put  up  their  prayers  for  temporal 
blessings.  They  observed  also  the  movements  of  the  sun  and 
moon,  the  constant  succession  of  day  and  night,  the  intervening 
periods  of  morn  and  eve,  and  to  these  also  they  gave  personali- 
ties, which  they  invested  with  poetical  clothing  and  attributes. 
Thus  observant  of  nature  in  its  various  changes  and  operations, 
alive  to  its  influences  upon  themselves,  and  perceptive  of  its 
beauties,  they  formed  for  themselves  deities  in  whose  glory  and 
honour  they  exerted  their  poetic  faculty.  They  had  no  one 
god  in  particular,  no  superior  deity  guiding  and  controlling  tlie 
rest,  but  they  paid  the  tribute  of  their  praise  to  the  deity  whose 
bounties  they  enjoyed,  or  whose  favours  they  desired  for  bodily 
comfort.  They  lauded  also  in  glowing  language  the  personifica- 
tions of  those  beauties  of  nature  which  filled  their  minds  with 


INTRODUCTION.  xi 

delight  and  kindled  the  poetic  fire.  So  each  of  the  deities  in 
turn  received  his  meed  of  praise,  and  each  in  his  turn  was  the 
powerful  god,  able  to  accomplish  the  desires  of  his  votary  or  to 
excite  a  feeling  of  awe  or  admiration. 

Thus  there  were  many  distinct  deities,  and  each  of  them  had 
some  general  distinctive  powers  and  attributes ;  but  their  attri- 
butes and  characters  were  frequently  confounded,  and  there  was 
a  constant  tendency  to  elevate  now  this  one  now  that  one  to  the 
supremacy,  and  to  look  upon  him  as  the  Great  Power.  In 
course  of  time  a  pre-eminence  was  given  to  a  triad  of  deities, 
foreshadowing  the  Tri-miirti  or  Trinity  of  later  days.  In  this 
triad  Agni  (Fire)  and  Surya  (the  Sun)  held  a  place,  and  the 
third  place  was  assigned  either  to  Vayu  (the  Wind)  or  to  Indra 
(god  of  the  sky).  Towards  the  end  of  the  i?/g-veda  Sanhita,  in 
the  hymns  of  the  latest  date,  the  idea  of  one  Supreme  Being 
assumed  a  more  definite  shape,  and  the  Hindu  mind  was  per- 
ceiving, even  if  it  had  not  distinctly  realised,  the  great  con- 
ception. 

As  the  Yedic  hymns  grew  ancient,  ritual  developed  and 
theological  inquiry  awoke.  Then  arose  what  is  called  the  Brali- 
marza  portion  of  the  Veda.  This  consists  of  a  variety  of  com- 
positions, chiefly  in  prose,  and  attached  to  the  different  Mantras. 
Ritual  and  liturgy  were  the  chief  objects  of  these  writings,  but 
traditions  were  cited  to  enforce  and  illustrate,  and  speculation 
was  set  at  work  to  explain,  the  allusions  of  the  hymns.  The 
simplicity  of  the  Yedic  myths  gradually  became  obscured,  the 
deities  grew  more  personal,  and  speculations  as  to  the  origin 
of  the  world  and  of  the  human  race  invested  them  with  new 
attributes.  Later  on,  in  the  Ara?zyakas  and  Upanishads,  which 
form  part  of  the  collective  Brahma?ia,  a  further  development 
took  place,  but  principally  in  a  philosophical  direction. 

Between  the  times  of  the  Sanhita  and  of  the  Brahma«a  the 
conception  of  a  Supreme  Being  had  become  established.  The 
Brahma?zas  recognise  one  Great  Being  as  the  Soul  of  the  Uni- 
verse, and  abound  with  philosophical  speculations  as  to  the  work 
of  creation  and  the  origin  of  man.  A  golden  ^gg  was  produced 
in  the  universal  waters,  from  which  in  course  of  time  came 
forth  Prajapati,  the  progenitor — or,  the  quiescent  Universal  Soul, 


xu  INTRODUCTION. 

Brahma,  took  a  creative  form  as  Brahma  the  Prajapati.  From 
the  Prajapati,  or  great  progenitor,  there  was  produced  a  daughter, 
and  by  her  he  was  the  father  of  the  human  race.  The  explana- 
tions and  details  of  this  connection  vary,  but  there  is  a  general 
accord  that  the  Prajapati  was  the  progenitor  of  all  mankind  by 
a  female  produced  from  himself.  Before  the  times  of  the  Brah- 
ma?ias  some  of  the  old  myths  of  the  hjTnns  had  crystallised,  the 
personifications  had  become  more  distinct,  and  the  ideas  from 
which  they  had  been  developed  had  grown  hazy  or  were  quite 
forgotten.  Philosophy  speculated  as  to  the  origin  of  the  world, 
theories  were  founded  upon  etymologies,  and  legends  were  in- 
vented to  illustrate  them.  These  speculations  and  illustrations 
in  course  of  time  hardened  into  shape,  and  became  realities 
when  the  ideas  which  gave  them  birth  were  no  longer  remem- 
bered and  understood.  The  priestly  order  had  advanced  in 
power,  and  had  taken  a  more  prominent  and  important  position, 
but  the  Ivshatriya  or  second  class  held  a  high  place,  and  asserted 
something  like  an  equality  with  the  Brahmans  even  in  matters 
of  learning. 

Another  interval  elapsed  between  the  days  of  the  Brahma^^a 
and  of  Manu.  The  theory  of  the  golden  ^gg  is  held  by  Manu, 
and  he  calls  the  active  creator  who  was  produced  from  it  Brahma 
and  Narayana,  the  latter  name  being  one  which  was  afterwards 
exclusively  appropriated  by  Yishmi.  But  the  most  remarkable 
change  observable  in  Manu  is  in  the  condition  of  the  people,  in 
the  great  advancement  of  the  Brahmanical  caste,  the  establish- 
ment of  the  four  gTeat  castes,  and  the  rise  of  a  number  of  mixed 
castes  from  cross  intercourse  of  these  four.  In  a  hjmm  called 
Purusha-sukta,  one  of  the  latest  hymns  of  the  i?/g-veda,  there 
is  a  distinct  recognition  of  three  classes,  Brahmans,  Kshatriyas, 
and  Vai^yas,  and  these  appear  more  distinctly  in  the  BrahmaTza, 
but  no  mention  of  the  Siidras  and  mixed  castes  has  been  found 
before  the  work  of  Manu. 

The  Ramayana  and  Maha-bharata  are  poems  of  the  heroic 
age,  and  though  they  are  full  of  marvels,  they  deal  more  with 
the  actions  of  mortal  men  and  romantic  creations  than  the  might 
and  majesty  of  the  gods.  The  old  deities  of  the  Vedas  have 
retired  into  the  background,  and  some  have  disappeared  alto- 


INTRODUCTION.  xiii 

getlier.  Indra  retains  a  place  of  some  dignity;  but  Brahma, 
ySiva,  and  Yish?zu  have,  in  the  Epics,  risen  to  the  chief  place. 
Even  of  these  three,  the  first  is  comparatively  insignificant. 
His  work  of  creation  was  over,  and  if  he  was  ever  an  object  of 
great  adoration,  he  had  ceased  to  be  so.  Vishwu  and  /Siva  both 
appear  in  these  poems ;  and  although  YishTiu  is  the  god  who 
holds  the  most  prominent  place,  still  there  are  many  passages  in 
which  /Siva  is  elevated  to  the  supreme  dignity.  The  Vish?m 
who,  in  the  Vedas,  was  the  friend  and  companion  of  Indra  and 
strode  over  the  universe,  has  become  the  great  deity  of  preserva- 
tion, and  the  terrible  and  howling  Rudra  is  now  >S^iva,  the  deity 
of  destruction  and  renovation.  Each  of  these  two  gods  in  his 
turn  contends  with  and  subdues  the  other ;  now  this,  now  that, 
receives  the  homage  of  his  rival,  and  each  in  turn  is  lauded  and 
honoured  as  the  chief  and  greatest  of  gods. 

The  Avataras  or  incarnations  of  VishTzu  assume  a  prominent 
place  in  the  poems,  and  still  more  so  in  the  Purawas.  The  first 
three,  the  Fish,  the  Tortoise,  and  the  Boar,  have  a  cosmical  cha- 
racter, and  are  foreshadowed  in  the  hymns  of  the  Vedas.  The 
fourth,  or  Man-lion,  seems  to  belong  to  a  later  age,  when  the 
worship  of  YishTzu  had  become  established.  The  fifth,  or 
Dwarf,  whose  tliree  strides  deprived  the  Asuras  of  the  dominion 
of  heaven  and  earth,  is  in  its  character  anterior  to  the  fourth 
Avatara,  and  the  three  strides  are  attributed  to  Yish?zu  in 
the  Veda.  The  fifth,  sixth,  and  seventh,  Parasu-rama,  Rama- 
chandra,  and  K?'?'sh?za,  are  mortal  heroes,  whose  exploits  are 
celebrated  in  these  poems  so  fervently  as  to  raise  the  heroes  to 
the  rank  of  gods.  The  ninth  Avatara,  Buddha,  is  manifestly 
and  avowedly  the  offspring  of  the  preaching  of  Buddha ;  and 
the  tenth,  Kalki,  is  yet  to  come. 

When  we  reach  the  Purarzas  there  is  found  a  very  difierent 
condition  of  things.  The  true  meaning  of  the  Vedic  myths  is 
entirely  lost,  their  origin  is  forgotten,  and  the  signification  and 
composition  of  many  of  the  mythic  names  are  unknown.  Mar- 
vellous legends  have  gathered  round  the  favourite  divinities,  and 
many  more  have  been  built  upon  fanciful  etymologies  of  the  old 
names.  The  simple  primitive  fancies  suggested  by  the  opera- 
tions of  nature  have  disappeared,  and  have  been  supplanted  by 


-xiv  I X  TROD  UCTIGN. 

the  wild  imaginings  of  a  more  advanced  civilisation,  but  of  a 
more  corrupt  state  of  society  and  religion.  The  Tri-miirti  or 
triad  of  deities  has  assumed  a  distinct  shape,  and  while  Bralimil 
has  quite  fallen  into  obscurity,  Yish??u  and  /Siva  have  each 
become  supreme  in  the  belief  of  their  respective  followers. 
Yishwu,  in  his  youthful  form  KWshwa,  is  the  object  of  a  sensuous 
and  joyous  worship.  The  gloomy  and  disgusting  worship  of 
/S'iva,  in  his  terrible  forms,  has  grown  side  by  side  with  it.  Tlie 
worship  of  his  fierce  consort,  Devi,  has  become  established,  and 
the  foundation  has  been  laid  of  the  obscene  and  bloody  rites 
afterwards  developed  in  the  Tantras. 

The  Yeda,  in  modern  Hinduism,  is  a  mere  name, — a  name  of 
liigh  authority,  often  invoked  and  highly  reverenced, — but  its 
Lmguage  is  unintelligible,  and  its  gods  and  rites  are  things  of 
the  past.  The  modern  system  is  quite  at  variance  with  the 
Yedic  A\Titings  out  of  which  it  grew,  and  the  descendant  bears 
but  few  marks  of  resemblance  to  its  remote  ancestor. 

The  Pura?ias  and  later  writings  are  the  great  authorities  of 
modern  Hinduism ;  their  mythology  and  legends  fill  the  popular 
mind  and  mould  its  thoughts.  The  wonderful  tales  of  the  great 
poems  also  exercise  a  great  influence.  The  heroes  of  these 
poems  are  heroes  still ;  their  exploits,  with  many  embellishments 
and  sectarial  additions,  are  recounted  in  prose  and  verse,  and  the 
tales  of  Rfima  and  the  PaTK^avas,  of  Hanumat  and  Ravana,  are 
still  read  and  listened  to  with  wonder  and  delight.  A  host  of 
legends  has  grown  up  around  the  hero  K77'sh?ia;  they  attend 
liim  from  his  cradle  to  his  pyre ;  but  the  stories  of  his  infancy 
and  his  youth  are  those  which  are  most  popular,  and  interest  all 
classes,  especially  women  and  young  people.  The  mild  and 
gentle  Rama,  "  the  husband  of  one  wife,"  pure  in  thought  and 
noble  in  action,  is  in  many  places  held  in  the  highest  honour,  and 
the  worship  paid  to  him  and  his  faithful  wife  Slta  is  the  purest 
and  least  degrading  of  the  many  forms  of  Hindu  Avorship. 

This  later  mythology,  Avitli  its  wonders  and  marvels,  and  its 
equally  marvellous  explanations  of  them,  is  the  key  to  modern 
Hinduism.  Tt  is  curious  to  trace  its  descent,  to  contrast  such 
legends  as  are  traceable  with  their  simple  beginnings  in  the 
Yedic  hymns,  and  so  to  follow  the  workings  of  the  mind  of  a 


INTRODUCTION.  xv 

great  people  throiigli  many  centuries.  Such  a  survey  supplies 
important  and  interesting  matter  for  the  history  of  religion, 
and  gives  a  clear  and  complete  view  of  the  degradation  of  a 
mythology.  But  for  the  purposes  of  comparative  mythology 
the  Pauranik  legends  are  of  trifling  importance.  The  stories  of 
the  Epic  poems  even  are  of  no  great  value.  It  may  be,  as  has 
been  maintained,  that  tliey  "  are  simply  difi'erent  versions  of  one 
and  the  same  story,  and  that  this  story  has  its  origin  in  the 
phenomena  of  the  natural  world  and  the  course  of  the  day  and 
the  year ; "  but  still  they  are  of  later  date,  and  afl'ord  no  direct 
clue  for  unravelling  the  mythology  of  the  Aryan  nations. 

The  most  ancient  hymns  of  the  i^zg- veda  are  the  basis  upon 
which  comparative  mythology  rests,  and  they  have  already  sup- 
plied the  means  of  unfolding  the  real  source  and  signification 
of  several  Greek  and  Zoroastrian  myths.  The  science  is  young, 
and  has  a  wide  field  before  it.  Some  of  its  results  are  beyond 
doubt,  but  there  are  other  deductions  which  have  not  advanced 
as  yet  beyond  conjecture  and  speculation.  In  the  present  work 
some  of  the  more  obvious  identifications,  or  proposed  identifica- 
tions, have  been  mentioned  as  occasion  offered ;  in  a  work  of 
reference  like  this  it  would  be  out  of  place  to  have  done  more. 
The  reader  who  wishes  to  pursue  the  study  must  consult  the 
writings  of  Max  Miiller  and  the  "  Aryan  Mythology "  of  the 
Eev.  Sir  George  Cox.  In  them  and  in  the  books  to  which  they 
refer  he  will  find  ample  information,  and  plenty  of  materials  for 
investigation  and  comparison. 


TRANSLITERATION  AND  PRONUNCIATION. 


If  this  work  answers  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  intended,  it 
will  be  used  by  students  who  are  acquainted  with  the  alphabet 
in  which  Sanskrit  is  written,  and  by  readers  to  whom  that 
alphabet  is  unknoTVTi.  Its  system  of  transliteration  ought  then 
to  be  such  as  to  enable  a  student  to  restore  any  word  to  its 
original  letters,  but  the  ordinary  reader  ought  not  to  be  em- 
barrassed with  unnecessary  diacritical  points  and  distinctions. 
The  alphabet  of  the  Sanskrit  is  represented  on  the  following 
plan : — • 

VOWELS. 


a  as  ir 
i     ,, 

Short. 
I  America, 
pin. 
put. 
rill. 

The  V 

Long. 
a  as  in  last. 
i     , ,    police. 
u    ,,     rule. 
rl   „     chagrin, 
owel  Iri  will  not  be  met  with. 

DIPHTHONGS. 

e  as  in  ere  or  fete, 
ai    ,,     aisle. 

* 

o     ,,      so. 

an  as  ou  in  house. 

CONSONANTS. 

Guttural        k 
Palatal           ch 
Cerebral         t 
Dental           t 
Labial            p 
Semi-vowels  y 
Sibilants        s 

kh              g                    gh                  n 

chh             j                     jh                  n 
th              d                   dh                 n 
th               d                    dh                 n 
ph              b                    bh                  m 
r                 1                     V,  w 
sh,  s     Aspirate  h    Visarga  h    Anusw£ 

xviii     TRANSLITERATION  AND  PRONUNCIATION. 

To  the  uninitiated  Englishman  the  chief  difficulty  lies  in  the 
short  '  a,'  the  primary  inherent  vowel  of  the  Sanskrit,  pro- 
nounced as  in  the  word  *  America,'  The  English  alphabet  has 
no  distinct  letter  for  this  sound,  but  uses  every  one  of  its  vowels 
in  turn,  and  some  even  of  its  double  vowels  to  represent  it ;  so 
it  is  the  '  a '  and  '  e '  in  *  servant,'  the  '  i '  in  '  bird,'  the  '  o '  in 
'  word,'  the  '  u  '  in  '  curd,'  the  '  y '  in  '  myrtle,'  and  the  *  ea '  in 
'  heard.'  The  Sanskrit  short  '  a '  has  this  sound  invariably,  and 
unafifected  by  any  combination  of  consonants ;  so  Sanskrit '  ham  ' 
must  be  pronounced  not  as  the  English  'barn'  but  as  'burn.' 
The  pronunciation  of  the  other  vowels  is  sufficiently  obvious. 
The  vowel  '  ri '  is  represented  in  italics  to  distinguish  it  from 
the  consonants  'r'  and  'i.' 

Of  the  consonants,  the  cerebral  letters  '  ^,'  '  /A,'  '  ^,'  '  dhj'  and 
'w,'  the  palatal  sibilant  '5,'  and  the  visarga  'A,'  are  represented  in 
italics.  Practically  these  are  the  only  distinctions  necessary. 
The  guttural  nasal  is  used  only  in  combination  with  a  guttural 
letter  ('nk'  or  *ng');  the  palatal  nasal  is  used  only  with 
palatals  ('  ncli '  and  '  nj  '),  and  no  other  nasal  can  be  combined 
with  these  letters.  The  anuswara,  and  the  anuswara  onlv,  is 
used  before  the  sibilants  and  '  h,'  so  in  '  ns,' '  nsh,'  '  ns,'  and  '  nh,' 
the  nasal  is  the  anuswara.  The  letter  m  before  a  semi-vowel 
may  be  represented  either  by  m  or  anuswara.  In  all  these 
instances  the  combinations  distinctly  indicate  the  proper  nasal, 
and  no  discriminative  sign  is  necessary. 

Of  tlie  pronunciation  of  the  nasals  it  is  only  necessary  to 
notice  the  anuswara.  This,  with  a  sibilant,  is  a  simple  n,  but 
l)efore  li  it  is  like  ng  or  the  French  n  in  hon;  so  the  Sanskrit 
iSinha,  in  the  modern  derivative  tongues,  is  written  and  pro- 
nounced Singh. 

The  aspirates  are  simple  aspirations  of  their  respective  con- 
sonants, and  make  no  other  change  of  their  sounds ;  so  '  th '  is 
to  be  pronounced  as  in  the  words  '  at  home,'  and  '  ]ih  '  as  in  '  up- 
hill,' never  as  in  'thine' and  in  ']>hysic.'  The  letter  *g'  is 
always  hard  as  in  'gift.'     The  palatals  are  the  simple  English 


TRANSLITERATION  AND  PRONUNCIATION,    xix 

sounds  of  '  cli '  and  ' j  '  as  in  '  church '  and  'just.'  The  cerebrals 
and  the  dentals  are  similar  letters,  but  the  former  are  drawn  from 
the  roof  of  the  mouth  and  the  latter  from  the  tips  of  the  teeth. 
In  'train'  and  'drain'  we  have  cerebrals;  in  'tin'  and  'due' 
we  have  dentals,  or  an  approach  to  them.  The  ordinary  English 
'  t '  and  '  d '  are  more  cerebral  than  dental,  and  the  natives  of 
India  in  transcribing  English  names  use  the  cerebrals  for  our  't' 
and  'd.'  The  palatal  sibilant  '5'  has  a  sound  intermediate 
between  's'  and  'sh,'  resembling  the  double  'ss'  in  'session.' 
The  visarga,  the  final  '  li^  has  no  distinct  enunciation,  but  it 
is  nevertheless  a  real  letter,  and  changes  in  certain  positions  into 
'  s '  and  '  r. '  Thus  the  name  /S'una/isephas  is  sometimes  written 
/Sunassephas. 

[In  French  the  palatal  '  ch '  is  represented  by  '  tch  '  and  the 
'j  '  by  '  dj.'  In  German  the  'ch'  is  expressed  by  'tsch'  and 
the  '  j  '  by  '  dsch.'  These  very  awkward  combinations  have 
induced  Max  Midler  and  others  to  use  an  italic  '  h '  and  '  g ' 
instead  of  them.] 

Some  words  will  be  found  with  varying  terminations,  as 
'Hanumat'  and  'Hanuman,'  'Sikha7Z(iin'  and  'Sikha?i(ii.'  The 
explanation  of  this  is  that  Sanskrit  nouns  have  what  is  called 
a  crude  form  or  stem  independent  of  case  termination,  and  the 
nominative  case  very  frequently  differs  from  it.  So  '  Hanumat' 
and  '  Sikha?zc?in '  are  crude  forms  ;  '  Hanuman '  and  *  SikhawcZi ' 
are  their  nominative  cases.  Tliere  are  other  such  variations 
which  need  not  be  noticed. 

The  letters  b  and  v  are  often  interchanged,  so  words  not 
found  under  the  one  letter  should  be  sought  for  under  the  other. 


HINDU  CLASSICAL  DICTIONARY. 


ABHASWARAS.  A  class  of  deities,  sixty-four  in  number, 
of  whose  nature  little  is  known. 

ABHIDHANA.  A  dictionary  or  vocabulary.  There  are 
many  such  works.  One  of  the  oldest  of  them  is  the  Abhidhdna 
ratna-mdld  of  Halayudha  Bha/^a  (circa  7th  cent.),  and  one  of 
the  best  is  the  Abhidhdna  Chintd-mam  of  Hema-chandra,  a  Jaina 
^vi'iter  of  celebrity  (13th  cent.).  The  former  has  been  edited  by 
Aufrecht ;  the  latter  by  Colebrooke  and  by  Bohtlingk  and  Rieu. 

ABHIlMANl.  Agni,  the  eldest  son  of  Brahma.  By  his 
wife  Swaha  he  had  three  sons,  Pavaka,  Pavamana,  and  iS'uchi. 
"  They  had  forty-five  sons,  who,  with  the  original  son  of  Brahma 
and  his  three  descendants,  constitute  the  forty-nine  fires."  See 
Agni. 

ABHIMANYU.  Son  of  Arjuna  by  his  wife  Su-bhadra,  and 
known  by  the  metronymic  Saubhadra.  He  killed  Lakshmawa, 
the  son  of  Dur-yodhana,  on  the  second  day  of  the  great  battle 
of  the  Maha-bharata,  but  on  the  thirteenth  day  he  himself  fell 
fighting  heroically  against  fearful  odds.  He  was  very  hand- 
some. His  wife  was  Uttara,  daughter  of  the  Raja  of  Virata. 
His  son,  Parikshit,  succeeded  to  the  throne  of  Hastinapura. 

ABHIRA,  ABHiRA.  A  cowherd ;  according  to  Manu  the 
offspring  of  a  Brahman  by  a  woman  of  the  Ambash^ha  or 
medical  tribe.  A  people  located  in  the  north  of  India  along 
the  Indus.  There  has  been  a  good  deal  of  misapprehension 
respecting  this  people.  Hindu  writers  have  described  them  as 
living  in  the  north  and  in  the  west,  the  quarter  varying  accord- 
ing to  the  locality  of  the  writer,  and  translators  have  mixed 


2       ABHIRA^rA-^fAXT—ADHyAT^fA  RAA/AYANA. 

them  up  witli  a  neighbouring  people,  the  *Siidras,  sometimes  called 
<Siiras,  with  whom  they  are  generally  associated,  and  have  called 
them  Siirabhiras.  Tlieir  modern  representatives  are  the  Ahirs, 
and  perhaps  there  is  something  more  than  identity  of  locality 
in  their  association  with  the  /Siidras.  It  has  been  suggested 
tliat  the  country  or  city  of  the  Abhiras  is  the  Ophir  of  the 
Bible. 

ABHIRAMA-MAiVI.  A  drama  in  seven  acts  on  tlie  history 
of  Rama,  written  by  Sundara  Misra  in  1599  a.d.  ''The  com- 
position possesses  little  dramatic  interest,  although  it  has  some 
literarv  merit. " —  JFilson. 

ACHARA.  'Rule,  custom,  usage.'  The  rules  of  practice  of 
castes,  orders,  or  religion.  There  are  many  books  of  rules  whicli 
have  this  word  for  the  first  member  of  their  titles,  as  Achdra- 
chandriJcd,  '  moonlight  of  customs,'  on  the  customs  of  the  >Sudras ; 

Aclidrddarsa,  'looking-glass  of  customs;'  Achdm-dij)a,  'lamp 
of  customs,'  &c.,  &c. 

ACHARYA.  A  spiritual  teacher  or  guide.  A  title  of  Dro/m, 
the  teacher  of  the  Pa?ic?avas. 

ACHYUTA  '  Unfallen  ; '  a  name  of  Vish?m  or  Knsh?m. 
It  has  been  variously  interpreted  as  signifying  "  he  who  does 
not  perish  with  created  things,"  in  the  Maha-bharata  as  "he 
who  is  not  distinct  from  final  emancipation,"  and  in  the  Skanda 
Purawa  as  "  he  who  never  declines  (or  varies)  from  his  proj)er 
nature." 

ADBHUTA-BRAHMAM.  'The  Brahma?2a  of  miracles.' 
A  Brahmawa  of  the  Siima-veda  which  treats  of  auguries  and 
marvels.     It  has  been  published  by  "Weber. 

ADIIARMA.  Unrigliteousness,  vice ;  personified  as  a  sou 
of  Brahma,  and  called  "the  destroyer  of  all  beings." 

ADHIRATIIA.  A  charioteer.  The  foster-father  of  Karwa  , 
according  to  some  he  was  king  of  Anga,  and  according  to  others 
the  charioteer  of  King  Dh^'itarash/ra ;  perhaps  he  was  both. 

ADHWARYU.  A  priest  whose  business  it  is  to  recite  the 
prayers  of  the  Yajur-veda. 

ADHYATMAN.  The  supreme  sjiirit,  tlie  soul  of  the  uni- 
verse. 

A]:)HYATMA  RA^MAYA.YA.  A  very  popular  work,  whicli 
is  considered  to  be  a  part  of  the  Brahmawrfa  Puray/a.  It  has 
been  printed  in  India.     See  Ramayana. 


ADI-PURANA—ADITYA.  3 

ADI-PURAiVA.  'The  first  Pura?ia,'  a  title  generally  con- 
ceded to  the  Brahma  Piira/za. 

ADITI.  'Free,  unbounded.'  Infinity;  the  boundless  heaven 
as  compared  with  the  finite  earth ;  or,  according  to  M.  Mliller, 
"the  visible  infinite,  visible  by  the  naked  eye;  the  endless 
expanse  beyond  the  earth,  beyond  the  clouds,  beyond  the  sky.'' 
In  the  i^ig-veda  she  is  frequently  implored  "  for  blessings  on 
children  and  cattle,  for  protection  and  for  forgiveness. "  Aditi  is 
called  Deva-matri,  '  mother  of  the  gods,'  and  is  represented  as 
being  the  mother  of  Daksha  and  the  daughter  of  Daksha.  On  this 
statement  Yaska  remarks  in  the  Nirukta  : — "  Hovy'  can  this  be 
possible  ?  They  may  have  had  the  same  origin ;  or,  according  to 
the  nature  of  the  gods,  they  may  have  been  born  from  each 
other,  have  derived  their  substance  from  one  another."  "Eight 
sons  were  born  from  the  body  of  Aditi ;  she  approached  the 
gods  with  seven  but  cast  away  the  eighth,  Martta726/a  (the  sun). " 
These  seven  were  the  Adityas.  In  the  Yajur-veda  Aditi  is 
addressed  as  "  Supj^orter  of  the  sky,  sustainer  of  the  earth, 
sovereign  of  this  world,  wife  of  Vish^iu ; "  but  in  the  Maha- 
bharata  and  Ramaya?ia,  as  well  as  in  the  Pura?2as,  Vish^iu  is 
called  the  son  of  Aditi.  In  the  Vishwu  Purawa  she  is  said  to  be 
the  daughter  of  Daksha  and  wife  of  Kasyapa,  by  whom  she  was 
mother  of  Yish7iu,  in  his  dwarf  incarnation  (wherefore  he  is 
sometimes  called  Aditya),  and  also  of  Indra,  and  she  is  called 
"the  mother  of  the  gods"  and  "the  mother  of  the  world.'' 
Indra  acknowledged  her  as  mother,  and  Yishwu,  after  receiving 
the  adoration  of  Aditi,  addressed  her  in  these  words  :  "  Mother, 
goddess,  do  thou  show  favour  unto  me  and  grant  me  thy  bless- 
ing." According  to  the  Matsya  Pura?ia  a  pair  of  ear-rings  was 
produced  at  the  churning  of  the  ocean,  which  Indra  gave  to 
Aditi,  and  several  of  the  Pura/ias  tell  a  story  of  these  ear-rings 
being  stolen  and  carried  off  to  the  city  of  Prag-jyotisha  by  the 
Asura  king  Naraka,  from  whence  they  were  brought  back  and 
restored  to  her  by  Krish/za.  Devaki,  the  mother  of  K?ish72a,  is 
represented  as  being  a  ncAv  birth  or  manifestation  of  Aditi.  See 
Max  MiiUer's  Fdg  Veda,  i.  230;  Muir's  I'exts,  iv.  11,  v.  35. 

ADITYA.  In  the  early  Yedic  times  the  Adityas  were  six, 
or  more  frequently  seven,  celestial  deities,  of  whom  Yaru^ia  was 
chief,  consequently  he  was  the  Aditya.  They  were  sons  of 
Aditi,  who  had  eight  sons,  but  she  approached  the  gods  with 


4  ADITYA—AGASTYA. 

seven,  liaving  cast  away  the  eighth,  ^Martta^zc/a  (the  sun).  In 
after-times  the  number  was  increased  to  twelve,  as  representing 
the  sun  in  the  twelve  months  of  the  year.  Aditya  is  one 
of  the  names  of  the  sun.  Dr.  Muir  quotes  the  following  from 
Professor  Koth  : — "  There  (in  the  highest  heaven)  dwell  and 
reign  those  gods  who  bear  in  common  the  name  of  Adityas. 
We  must,  however,  if  we  would  discover  their  earliest  character, 
abandon  the  conceptions  which  in  a  later  age,  and  even  in  that 
of  the  heroic  poems,  were  entertained  regarding  these  deities. 
According  to  this  conception  they  were  twelve  sun-gods,  bearing 
evident  reference  to  the  twelve  months.  But  for  the  most 
ancient  period  we  must  hold  fast  the  primary  signification 
of  their  name.  They  are  the  inviolable,  imperishable,  eternal 
beings.  Aditi,  eternity,  or  the  eternal,  is  the  element  which 
sustains  or  is  sustained  by  them.  .  .  .  The  eternal  and  inviol- 
able element  in  wliich  the  Adityas  dwell,  and  which  forms  their 
essence,  is  the  celestial  light.  The  Adityas,  the  gods  of  this 
light,  do  not  therefore  by  any  means  coincide  with  any  of  the 
forms  in  which  light  is  manifested  in  the  universe.  They  are 
neither  sun,  nor  moon,  nor  stars,  nor  dawn,  but  the  eternal 
sustainers  of  this  luminous  life,  which  exists,  as  it  were,  behind 
all  these  phenomena." 

The  names  of  the  six  Adityas  are  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Bhaga, 
Varu7m,  Daksha,  and  Ansa.  Daksha  is  frequently  excluded, 
and  Indra,  Savitri  (the  sun),  and  Dhatri  are  added.  Those  of 
tlie  twelve  Adityas  are  variously  given,  but  many  of  them  are 
names  of  the  sun. 

AJJITYA  PURAATA.     One  of  the  eighteen  Upa-pur5»as. 

AG  A8TI,  AG  A8TYA.  A  i^ishi,  the  reputed  author  of  several 
hymns  in  tlie  itig-veda,  and  a  very  celebrated  personage  in 
Hindu  story.  He  and  Yasish^ia  are  said  in  the  it/g-veda  to  be 
the  offspring  of  Mitra  and  Varuiia,  whose  seed  fell  from  them  at 
the  sight  of  Urva.si ;  and  the  commentator  Saya?ia  adds  that 
Agastya  was  born  in  a  water-jar  as  "a  fish  of  great  lustre," 
wlicnce  he  was  called  KalasZ-suta,  Kumbha- sambhava,  and 
Gha/odbhava.  From  his  parentage  he  was  called  ]\raitra-varu?ii 
and  Aurvaslya  ;  and  as  he  was  very  small  when  he  was  born, 
not  more  than  a  span  in  length,  he  was  called  Mfma.  Though 
he  is  thus  associated  in  his  birth  with  Vasish^ha,  he  is  evidently 
later  in  date,  and  he  is  not  one  of  the  Prajapatis.     His  name. 


AGASTYA,  5 

Agastya,  is  derived  by  a  forced  etymology  from  a  fable  which 
represents  him  as  having  commanded  the  Vindhya  mountains  to 
prostrate  themselves  before  him,  through  which  they  lost  their 
primeval  altitude;  or  rather,  perhaps,  the  fable  has  been  invented 
to  account  for  his  name.  This  miracle  has  obtained  for  him  the 
epithet  Yindliya-ku^a ;  and  he  acquired  another  name,  Pitabdhi, 
or  Samudra-chuluka,  '  Ocean  drinker,'  from  another  fable, 
according  to  which  he  drank  up  the  ocean  because  it  had 
offended  him,  and  because  he  wished  to  help  the  gods  in  their 
wars  with  the  Daityas  when  the  latter  had  hidden  themselves  in 
the  waters.  He  was  afterwards  made  regent  of  the  star  Canopus, 
which  bears  his  name.  The  Pura^zas  represent  him  as  being  the 
son  of  Pulastya,  the  sage  from  whom  the  Rakshasas  sprang.  He 
was  one  of  the  narrators  of  the  Brahma  Pura?2a  and  also  a  writer 
on  medicine. 

The  Maha-bharata  relates  a  legend  respecting  the  creation  of 
his  wife.  It  says  that  Agastya  saw  his  ancestors  suspended  by 
their  heels  in  a  pit,  and  was  told  by  them  that  they  could  be 
rescued  only  by  his  begetting  a  son.  Thereupon  he  formed  a 
girl  out  of  the  most  graceful  parts  of  different  animals  and 
passed  her  secretly  into  the  palace  of  the  king  of  Yidarbha. 
There  the  child  grew  up  as  a  daughter  of  the  king,  and  was 
demanded  in  marriage  by  Agastya.  Much  against  his  will  the 
king  was  constrained  to  consent,  and  she  became  the  wife  of  the 
sage.  She  was  named  Lopa-mudra,  because  the  animals  had 
been  subjected  to  loss  {loim)  by  her  engrossing  their  distinctive 
beauties,  as  the  eyes  of  the  deer,  &c.  She  was  also  called 
Kausitaki  and  Vara-prada.  The  same  poem  also  tells  a  story 
exhibiting  his  superhuman  power,  by  which  he  turned  King 
ISTahusha  into  a  serpent  and  afterwards  restored  him  to  his 
proper  form.     See  Nahusha. 

It  is  in  the  Ramayavia  that  Agastya  makes  the  most  distin- 
guished figure.  He  dwelt  in  a  hermitage  on  Mount  Kunjara, 
situated  in  a  most  beautiful  country  to  the  south  of  the  Vindhya 
mountains,  and  was  chief  of  the  hermits  of  the  soutL  He  kept 
the  Eakshasas  who  infested  the  south  under  control,  so  that  the 
country  was  "only  gazed  upon  and  not  possessed  by  them." 
His  power  over  them  is  illustrated  by  a  legend  which  represents 
him  as  eating  up  a  Rakshasa  named  Yatapi  who  assumed  the 
form  of  a  ram,  and  as  destroying  by  a  flash  of  his  eye  the 


6  aghAsura—agni. 

Raksliasa's  brother,  Ilvala,  who  attempted  to  avenge  liim.  {See, 
Vatapi.)  Rama  in  his  exile  wandered  to  the  hermitage  of 
Agastya  with  8ita  and  Lakshma??a.  The  sage  received  him  with 
the  greatest  kindness,  and  became  his  friend,  adviser,  and  pro- 
tector. He  gave  him  tlie  bow  of  Yish/?u ;  and  when  Rama  was 
restored  to  his  kingdom,  the  sage  accompanied  him  to  Ayodhya. 

The  name  of  Agastya  holds  a  great  place  also  in  Tamil  litera- 
ture, and  he  is  "  venerated  in  the  south  as  the  first  teacher  of 
science  and  Hterature  to  the  primitive  Dravi(/ian  tribes;"  so  says 
Pr,  Caldwell,  who  thinks  "  we  shall  not  greatly  err  in  placing 
the  era  of  Agastya  in  the  seventh,  or  at  least  in  the  sixth  cen- 
tury B.C."  AVilson  also  had  previously  testified  to  the  same 
effect:  "The  traditions  of  the  south  of  India  ascribe  to  Agastya 
a  principal  share  in  the  formation  of  the  Tamil  language  and 
literature,  and  the  general  tenor  of  the  legends  relating  to  him 
denotes  liis  having  been  instriimental  in  the  introduction  of  tlie 
Hindu  religion  and  literature  into  the  Peninsula." 

AGHASURA.  (Agha  the  Asura.)  Aii  Asura  who  was  Kansa's 
general.  lie  assumed  the  form  of  a  vast  serpent,  and  Knsh?ia'G 
companions,  the  cowherds,  entered  its  mouth,  mistaking  it  for  a 
mountain  cavern  :  but  K/-/sh?ta  rescued  them. 

AGNAYl.  Wife  of  Agni.  She  is  seldom  alluded  to  in  the 
Yeda  and  is  not  of  any  importance. 

AGXEYA.  Son  of  Agni,  a  name  of  Kfirttikeya  or  ]\[ars  ; 
also  an  appellation  of  the  Muni  Agastya  and  others. 

AGNEYASTRA.  'The  weapon  of  fire.'  Given  by  Bharad- 
waja  to  Agnive.sa,  the  son  of  Agni,  and  by  him  to  Dro72a.  A 
similar  weapon  was,  according  to  the  Yish?m  PuraTia,  given  by 
the  sage  Aurva  to  his  pupil  King  Sagara,  and  with  it  "he 
conriuered  the  tribes  of  barbarians  who  had  invaded  his  patri- 
monial possessions." 

AGNEYA  PURAA^A.     See  Agni  Pura??a. 

AGNI.  (Nom.  Agnis=  Ignis.)  Fire,  one  of  the  most  ancient 
and  most  sacred  objects  of  Hindu  worship.  He  appears  in  three 
phases — in  heaven  as  the  sun,  in  mid-air  as  lightning,  on  earth 
as  ordinary  lire.  Agni  is  one  of  the  chief  deities  of  the  Yedas, 
and  gj'cat  numbers  of  tlie  hviims  are  addressed  to  him,  more 
indfod  llinii  to  any  (itluT  god.  IFe  is  one  of  the  tlirec  greatdeities 
— Agni,  \;\\\\  ((.!•  Indiii),  niid  Sfivya — who  respectively  preside 
over  eartli,  air,  and  sky,  and  arc  all  e(]ual  in  dignity.      "He  is 


AGNI.  7 

considered  as  the  mediator  between  men  and  gods,  as  protector 
of  men  and  their  homes,  and  as  witness  of  their  actions  ;  hence 
his  invocation  at  all  solemn  occasions,  at  the  nuptial  ceremony, 
tfec.  Fire  has  ceased  to  be  an  object  of  Avorship,  but  is  held  in 
honour  for  the  part  it  performs  in  sacrifices."  Agni  is  repre- 
sented as  having  seven  tongues,  each  of  which  has  a  distinct 
name,  for  licking  up  the  butter  used  in  sacritices.  He  is 
guardian  of  the  south-east  quarter,  being  one  of  the  eight  loka- 
palas  (q.v.),  and  his  region  is  called  Pura-jyotis. 

In  a  celebrated  hymn  of  the  i^ig-veda  attributed  to  Yasish/ha, 
Indra  and  other  gods  are  called  upon  to  destroy  the  Kravyads 
*  the  flesh-eaters,'  or  Rakshas  enemies  of  the  gods.  Agni  himself 
is  also  a  Kravyad,  and  as  such  he  takes  an  entirely  different 
character.  He  is  represented  under  a  form  as  hideous  as  the 
beings  he  is  invoked  to  devour.  He  sharpens  his  two  iron  tusks, 
puts  his  enemies  into  his  mouth  and  swallows  them.  He  heats  the 
edges  of  his  shafts  and  sends  them  into  the  hearts  of  the  Rakshas. 

"He  appears  in  the  progress  of  mythological  personifica- 
tion as  a  son  of  Angiras,  as  a  king  of  the  Pitv/s  or  Manes, 
as  a  Marut,  as  a  gTandson  of  ASawc^ila,  as  one  of  the  seven 
sages  or  ^/shis,  during  the  reign  of  Tamasa  the  fourth  Manu," 
and  as  a  star.  In  the  Maha-bharata  Agni  is  represented  as  hav- 
ing exhausted  his  vigour  by  devouring  too  many  oblations,  and 
desiring  to  consume  the  whole  Kha?z^ava  forest  as  a  means  of 
recruiting  his  strength.  He  was  prevented  by  Indra,  but  having 
obtained  the  assistance  of  K?7'shwa  and  Arjuna,  he  baffled  Indra 
and  accomplished  his  object.  In  the  Vish?iu  Purawa  he  is 
called  Abhimani,  and  the  eldest  son  of  Brahma.  His  wife  was 
Swaha;  by  her  he  had  tliree  sons,  Pavaka,  Pavamana,  and  ^S'uchi, 
and  these  had  forty-five  sons;  altogether  forty-nine  persons, 
identical  with  the  forty-nine  fires,  which  forty-nine  fires  the 
Vayu  Pura?^a  endeavours  to  discriminate.  He  is  described  in 
the  Hari-vansa  as  clothed  in  black,  having  smoke  for  liis  stan- 
dard and  head-piece,  and  carrying  a  flaming  javehn.  He  has 
four  hands,  and  is  borne  in  a  chariot  drawn  by  red  horses,  and 
the  seven  winds  are  the  wheels  of  his  car.  He  is  accompanied 
by  a  ram,  and  sometimes  he  is  rejDresented  riding  on  that 
animal.     The  representations  of  him  vary. 

The  names  and  epithets  of  Agni  are  many — Yahni.  Anala, 
Pavaka,  Yaii'wanara,  son  of   Yiswanara,   the  sun ;    Abja-liasta, 


8  A  GNI-DA  GDHA  S—A  HALYA. 

'  lotus  in  hand ; '  Dhiinia-ketu,  *  whose  sign  is  smoke ; '  Hutiusa 
or  Huta-bhuj,  *  dcvourer  of  offerings ; '  ^Siichi  or  /S'ukra,  '  the 
bright;'  Eohita^wa,  'having  red  horses;'  Chhaga-ratha,  'ram- 
rider;'  Jatavedas  (q.v.);  Sapta-jihva,  '  seven-tongued ; '  Tomara- 
dliara,  '  javeHn-bearer. ' 

AGXI-DAGDHAS.  Pit?-/s,  or  Planes,  who  when  alive  kept 
up  the  household  flame  and  presented  oblations  with  fire.  Those 
who  did  not  do  so  were  called  An-agni  dagdhas.     See  Pitris. 

AGNI  PXJRAA^A.  Tliis  Purawa  derives  its  name  from  its 
having  been  communicated  originally  by  Agni,  the  deity  of  fire, 
to  the  Muni  Vasish/ha,  for  the  purpose  of  instructing  him  in  the 
twofold  knowledge  of  Brahma.  Its  contents  are  variously 
specified  as  "  sixteen  thousand,  fifteen  thousand,  and  fourteen 
thousand  stanzas."  This  work  is  devoted  to  the  glorification 
of  /Siva,  but  its  contents  are  of  a  very  varied  and  cyclopsedical 
character.  It  has  portions  on  ritual  and  mystic  worship, 
cosmical  descriptions,  chapters  on  the  duties  of  kings  and  the 
art  of  war,  which  have  the  appearance  of  being  extracted  from 
Bome  older  work,  a  chapter  on  law  from  the  text-book  of 
Yajnawalkya,  some  chapters  on  medicine  from  the  Susruta,  and 
some  treatises  on  rhetoric,  prosody,  and  grammar  according  to  the 
rules  of  Pingala  and  Pawini.  Its  motley  contents  "  exclude  it 
from  any  legitimate  claims  to  be  regarded  as  a  Pura7ia,  and  prove 
that  its  origin  cannot  be  very  remote."  The  text  of  this  Purazia 
is  now  in  course  of  publication  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica,  edited 
by  Riijendra  Lai  Mitra. 

AGNISHWATTAS.  PitWs  or  Manes  of  the  gods,  who 
when  living  upon  earth  did  not  maintain  their  domestic  fires 
or  offer  burnt-sacrifices.  According  to  some  authorities  they 
were  descendants  of  Marichi.  They  are  also  identified  with  the 
seasons.     See  Pitris. 

AGNIYE5A.  A  sage,  the  son  of  Agni,  and  an  early  writer 
on  medicine. 

ATIALYA.  Wife  of  the  jRishi  Gautama,  and  a  very  beautiful 
woman.  In  the  RfimayaTza  it  is  stated  that  she  was  the  first 
woman  made  by  Bralimii,  and  that  he  gave  her  to  Gautama. 
She  was  seduced  by  Indra,  Avho  had  to  suffer  for  his  adultery. 
One  version  of  tlie  Ramayay^a  represents  her  as  knowing  the 
god  and  being  flattered  by  his  condescension  ;  but  anotlicr  ver- 
sion states  that  tlic  god  assumed  the  form  of  her  husband,  and 


AHI—AJA.  9 

so  deceived  her.  Another  story  is  that  Iiidra  secured  the  help 
of  the  moon,  who  assumed  the  form  of  a  cock  and  crowed  at 
midnight.  This  roused  Gautama  to  his  morning's  devotions,  when 
Indra  went  in  and  took  his  place.  Gautama  expelled  Ahalya 
from  his  hermitage,  and  deprived  her  of  her  prerogative  of  being 
the  most  beautiful  woman  in  the  world,  or,  according  to  another 
statement,  he  rendered  her  invisible.  She  was  restored  to  her 
natural  state  by  Rama  and  reconciled  to  her  husband.  This 
seduction  is  explained  mythically  by  Kumarda  Bha^/a  as  Indra 
(the  sun's)  carrying  away  the  shades  of  night — the  name  Ahalya, 
by  a  strained  etymology,  being  made  to  signify  'night.' 

AHI.  A  serpent.  A  name  of  Vritra,  the  Vedic  demon  of 
drought :  but  Ahi  and  Vritra  are  sometimes  "  distinct,  and  mean, 
most  probably,  differently  formed  clouds." — WiUon. 

AHI-CHHATRA,  AHI-KSHETRA.  A  city  mentioned  in 
the  Maha-bharata  as  lying  north  of  the  Ganges,  and  as  being  the 
capital  of  Northern  Panchala.  It  is  apparently  the  Adisadra  of 
Ptolemy,  and  its  remains  are  visible  near  Eam-nagar. 

AINDRI.     '  Son  of  Indra.'     An  appellation  of  Arjuna. 

AIRAYATA.  'A  fine  elephant.'  An  elephant  produced  at 
the  churning  of  the  ocean,  and  appropriated  by  the  god  Indra. 
The  derivation  of  this  name  is  referred  to  the  word  Iravat, 
signifying  'produced  from  water.'  He  is  guardian  of  one  of  the 
points  of  the  compass.     See,  Loka-pala. 

AITAREYA.  The  name  of  a  Brahma??a,  an  Ara?iyaka,  and 
an  XJpanishad  of  the  -K/g-veda.  The  BrahmaTia  has  been  edited 
and  translated  by  Dr.  Haug ;  the  text  of  the  Ara^z-yaka  has  been 
published  in  the  B'lhliotheca  Indica  by  Rajendra  Lala,  and  there 
is  another  edition.  The  Upanishad  has  been  translated  by  Dr. 
Roer  in  the  same  series.  "  The  Aitareya  Ara^iyaka  consists  of  five 
books,  each  of  which  is  called  Ara?^yaka.  The  second  and  third 
books  form  a  separate  Upanishad,  and  a  still  further  subdivision 
here  takes  place,  inasmuch  as  the  four  last  sections  of  the  second 
book,  which  are  particularly  consonant  with  the  doctrines  of  the 
Vedanta  system,  pass  as  the  Aitareyopanishad."^/F(gZ)gr. 

A  J  A.  'Unborn.'  An  epithet  applied  to  many  of  the  gods. 
A  prince  of  the  Solar  race,  sometimes  said  to  be  the  son  of 
Raghu,  at  others  the  son  of  Dilipa,  son  of  Raghu.  He  was 
tlie  husband  chosen  at  her  swayam-vara  by  IndumatI,  daughter 
of  the  Raja  of  Vidarbha,  and  was  the  father  of  Dasaratha  and 


lo  AJAGAVA—ALAKA. 

grandfather  of  Rama.  The  Raghu-van^a  relates  how  on  his  way 
to  the  swayam-vara  he  was  annoyed  by  a  wild  elephant  and 
ordered  it  to  be  shot.  "Wlien  the  elephant  was  mortally  wounded, 
a  beautiful  figure  issued  from  it,  which  declared  itself  a  gand- 
harva  who  had  been  transformed  into  a  mad  elephant  for  derid- 
ing a  lioly  man.  The  gandharva  was  delivered,  as  it  had  been 
foretold  to  him,  hy  Aja,  and  he  gave  the  prince  some  arrows 
which  enabled  him  to  excel  in  the  contest  at  the  swayam-vara. 
AMien  Dasaratha  grew  up,  Aja  ascended  to  Indra's  heaven. 

AJAGAVA.  The  '  primitive  bow  '  of  ^'iva,  which  fell  from 
heaven  at  the  birth  of  Pr?'thu. 

AJA]\IILA.  A  Brahman  of  Kanauj,  who  married  a  slave  and 
had  children,  of  whom  he  was  very  fond. 

AJATA->SfATRU.  'One  whose  enemy  is  unborn.'  i.  A 
king  of  Kusi,  mentioned  in  the  Upanishads,  who  was  very 
learned,  and,  although  a  Ivshatriya,  instructed  the  Brahman 
Gargya-balaki.  2.  A  name  of  >Siva.  3.  Of  Yudhi-shfliira.  4. 
A  king  of  ]\fathura  who  reigned  in  the  time  of  Buddha. 

AJAYA-PALA.  Author  of  a  8ansk>-/t  vocabulary  of  some 
rejmte. 

AJIGAKTTA.  A  Brfdiman  7?/Vlii  who  sold  his  son  SxavAh- 
*-ephas  to  be  a  sacrifice. 

AJITA.  '  Unconquered. '  A  title  given  to  Vish/m,  >Siva, 
and  many  others.  There  were  classes  of  gods  bearing  this  name 
in  several  Manwantaras. 

AKRU^RA.  A  Yadava  and  uncle  of  Kr/sh/^.  He  was  son 
of  >S'wa-plialka  and  Gandini.  It  was  he  who  took  Kr?'sh?ia  and 
Hama  to  ^Nfathura  when  the  former  broke  the  great  bow.  He  is 
chiefly  noted  as  being  the  holder  of  the  Syamantaka  gem. 

AKSHA.  The  eldest  son  of  RavaTza,  slain  by  Hanuman. 
Also  a  name  of  GarucZa. 

AKSHA  MALA.     A  name  of  Arundhati  (q.v.). 

AKULT.     An  Asura  priest.     See  Kilatfikuli. 

AKUPARA.  A  tortoise  or  turtle.  The  tortoise  on  whicli  the 
earth  rests. 

AKUTI.  A  daughter  of  Manu  Swfiyambhuva  and  /S'ata-riipa, 
whom  he  gave  to  the  patriarch  Ruchi.  She  bore  twins,  Yajna 
and  Dakshiz/a,  who  became  husband  and  wife  and  had  twelve 
pons,  tlie  deities  called  Yilmas. 

AL.MvA.      The    cajtilal    of    Jvuvuia    and    tlic   abode   of   the 


ALAKA-NANDA~A  MARU-SA  TAKA.  1 1 

gandliarvas    on    jVIount    Mem.     It   is   also   called  A'asu-dhara, 
Vasu-sthall,  and  Prabhii. 

ALAKA-NAXDA.  One  of  the  four  brandies  of  the  river 
Ganga,  wliicli  flows  south  to  the  country  of  Bharata.  This  is 
said  by  the  Vaishwavas  to  be  the  terrestrial  Gangii  which  ^S'iva 
received  upon  his  head. 

ALAMBUSHA.  A  great  Rakshasa  worsted  by  Satyaki  in 
the  great  war  of  the  Maha-bharata,  and  finally  killed  by  Gha/ot- 
kacha.     He  is  said  to  be  a  son  of  itishyasr/nga. 

ALAYUDHA.  A  Rakshasa  killed  after  a  fierce  combat  by 
Gha/otkacha  in  the  war  of  the  Maha-bharata  (Fauche,  ix.  278). 

AMARA-KAA^IAKxi.  'Peak  of  the  immortals.'  A  place 
of  pilgrimage  in  the  table-land  east  of  the  Vindhyas. 

AMARA-KOSHA.  This  title  may  be  read  in  two  ways — 'the 
immortal  vocabulary,'  or,  more  appropriately,  '  the  vocabulary  of 
Amara  or  Amara  Sinha.'  "  The  oldest  vocabulary  hitherto  known, 
and  one  of  the  most  celebrated  vocabularies  of  the  classical 
Sanskr/t."  It  has  been  the  subject  of  a  great  number  of  com- 
mentaries. The  text  has  been  often  printed.  There  is  an 
edition  published  in  India  with  an  English  interpretation  and 
amiotations  by  Colebrooke,  and  the  text  with  a  French  transla- 
tion has  been  printed  by  Deslongchamps. 

AMARA  SINHA  The  author  of  the  vocabidary  called 
Amara-kosha.  He  was  one  of  the  nine  gems  of  the  court  of 
Yikrama.  (See  Nava-ratna. )  Wilson  inclines  to  place  him  in  the 
first  century  B.C.  Lassen  j)laces  him  about  the  middle  of  the 
third  century  a.d.,  and  others  incline  to  bring  him  down  later. 

AMARA V ATI.  The  capital  of  Indra's  heaven,  renowned  for 
its  greatness  and  splendour.  It  is  situated  somewhere  in  the 
vicinity  of  Meru.  It  is  sometimes  called  Deva-pura,  '  city  of  the 
gods,'  and  Piisha-bhasa,  *  sun-splendour.' 

AMARE^SWARA.  'Lord  of  the  immortals.'  A  title  of 
Vish?m,  6'iva,  and  Indra.  Name  of  one  of  tlie  twelve  great 
lingas.     See  Linga. 

AMARU-/SATAKA.  A  poem  consisting  of  a  hundred  stanzas 
written  by  a  king  named  Amaru,  but  by  some  attributed  to  the 
philosopher  ^ankara,  who  assumed  the  dead  form  of  that  king 
for  the  23urpose  of  conversing  with  his  widow.  The  verses  are 
of  an  erotic  character,  but,  like  many  others  of  the  same  kind,  a 
religious  or  philosophical  interpretation  lias  been  found  for  them. 


12  AMBA—AATRITA. 

There  is  a  translatiou  in  Freuch  by  AjDudy  with  the  text,  and 
a  translation  in  German  by  RUckert. 

AMBA.  '  ^Mother.'  i.  A  name  of  Durgi.  2.  The  eldest 
/laughter  of  a  king  of  IsSxsl.  She  and  her  sisters  Ambika  and 
Ambrdika  were  carried  off  by  Bhishma  to  be  the  wives  of  Vichitra- 
vfrya.  Amba  had  been  previously  betrothed  to  a  Raja  of  ^alwa, 
and  Bhishma  sent  her  to  him,  but  the  Raja  rejected  her  because 
she  had  been  in  another  man's  house.  She  retu^ed  to  the  forest 
and  engaged  in  devotion  to  obtain  revenge  of  Bhishma.  5'iva 
favoured  \wv,  and  promised  her  the  desired  vengeance  in  another 
birth.  Then  she  ascended  the  pile  and  was  born  again  as  ^ik- 
hdiudm,  M'ho  slew  Bhishma. 

A!MBALIKA.  The  younger  Tvidow  of  Vichitra-virya  and 
mother  of  V&ndu  by  Vyasa.     See  Maha-bharata. 

AMBARISHA.  i.  A  king  of  Ayodhya,  twenty-eighth  in 
descent  from  Ikshwaku.  {See  AS'unaAsephas.)  2.  An  appellation 
of  >S'iva.     3.  x^Tame  of  one  of  the  eighteen  hells. 

AMBASHTHA.  A  military  people  inhabiting  a  country  of 
the  same  name  in  the  middle  of  the  Panjab ;  probably  the 
' A'jL^dsrai  of  Ptolemy.     2.  The  medical  tribe  in  Manu. 

A^MBIKA.  I.  A  sister  of  Rudra,  but  in  later  times  identified 
witli  Uma.  2.  Elder  widow  of  Vichitra-virya  and  mother  of 
Dhrita-rash^ra  by  Vyasa.     See  Maha-bharata. 

AMBIKEYA.  A  metron^^mic  ajiplicable  to  Ganesa,  Skanda, 
and  Dh?7ta-rash/ra. 

AMXAYA.     Sacred  tradition.     The  Vedas  in  the  aggregate. 

AMi?7TA.  'Immortal.'  A  god.  The  water  of  life.  The 
term  -was  known  to  the  Vedas,  and  seems  to  have  been  applied 
to  various  things  offered  in  sacrifice,  but  more  especially  to  the 
Soma  juice.  It  is  also  called  Nir-jara  and  Piyiisha.  In  later 
times  it  was  the  water  of  life  produced  at  the  churning  of  the 
ocean  by  the  gods  and  demons,  the  legend  of  which  is  told  Avitli 
some  variations  in  the  RamayaTza,  the  Maha-bharata,  and  the 
Pura??as.  The  gods,  feeling  their  weakness,  having  been  worsted 
by  the  demons,  and  being,  according  to  one  authority,  under  the 
ban  of  a  holy  sage,  repaired  to  Vish?iu,  beseeching  him  for 
renewed  vigour  and  the  gift  of  immortality.  He  directed  them  to 
chum  the  ocean  for  the  Am?-ita  and  other  precious  things  which 
had  boon  lost.  The  story  as  told  in  the  Vish?^u  Purawa  has  been 
rendered  into  verse  by  I'rofessor  Williams  thus  : — 


AMRITA,  13 

"  The  gods  addressed  the  mighty  Vishnu  thus — 
*  Conquered  in  battle  by  the  evil  demons, 
•  We  fly  to  thee  for  succour,  soul  of  all ; 
Pity,  and  by  thy  might  deliver  us  ! ' 
Hari,  the  lord,  creator  of  the  world. 
Thus  by  the  gods  implored,  all  graciously 
Replied — '  Your  strength  shall  be  restored,  ye  gods  ; 
Only  accomplish  what  I  now  command. 
Unite  yourselves  in  peaceful  combination 
With  these  your  foes  ;  collect  all  plants  and  herbs 
Of  diverse  kinds  from  every  quarter  ;  cast  them 
Into  the  sea  of  milk  ;  take  Mandara, 
The  mountain,  for  a  churning  stick,  and  Vasuki, 
The  serpent,  for  a  rope  ;  together  churn 
The  ocean  to  produce  the  beverage — 
Source  of  all  strength  and  immortality — 
Then  reckon  on  my  aid  ;  I  will  take  care 
Your  foes  shall  share  your  toil,  but  not  partake 
In  its  reward,  or  drink  th'  immortal  draught.' 
Thus  by  the  god  of  gods  advised,  the  host 
United  in  alliance  with  the  demons. 
Straightway  they  gathered  various  herbs  and  cast  them 
Into  the  waters,  then  they  took  the  mountain 
To  serve  as  churning-stafF,  and  next  the  snake 
To  serve  as  cord,  and  in  the  ocean's  midst 
Hari  himself,  present  in  tortoise-form. 
Became  a  pivot  for  the  churning- staff. 
Then  did  they  churn  the  sea  of  milk  ;  and  first 
Out  of  the  waters  rose  the  sacred  Cow, 
God-worshipped  Surabhi,  eternal  fountain 
Of  milk  and  ofl'erings  of  butter  ;  next. 
While  holy  Siddhas  wondered  at  the  sight. 
With  eyes  all  rolling,  Varum  uprose, 
Goddess  of  wine.     Then  from  the  whirlpool  sprang 
Fair  Parijata,  tree  of  Paradise,  delight 
Of  heavenly  maidens,  with  its  fragrant  blossoms 
Perfuming  the  whole  world,     Th'  Apsarasas, 
Troop  of  celestial  nymphs,  matchless  in  grace, 
Perfect  in  loveliness,  were  next  produced. 
Then  from  the  sea  uprose  the  cool-rayed  moon, 
Which  Maha-deva  seized  ;  terrific  poison 
Next  issued  from  the  waters  ;  this  the  snake-gods 
Claimed  as  their  0"v\rQ.     Then,  seated  on  a  lotus, 
Beauty's  bright  goddess,  peerless  >SrI,  arose 
Out  of  the  waves  ;  and  with  her,  robed  in  white. 
Came  forth  Dhanwantari,  the  gods'  physician. 


14  ANADHRIsn  TI-  A NARGHA  RAGHA  1  ^A. 

Higli  in  liis  hand  he  bore  the  cup  of  nectar — 
Life-giving  draught — longed  for  by  gods  and  demons. 
Then  had  the  demons  forcibly  borne  off 
The  cup,  and  drained  the  precious  beverage; 
Had  not  the  mighty  Vish/iu  interposed. 
Bewildering  them,  he  gave  it  to  the  gods  ; 
AVhereat,  incensed,  the  demon  troops  assailed 
The  host  of  heaven,  but  they  with  strength  renewed. 
Quaffing  the  draught,  struck  down  their  foes,  who  fell 
Headlong  through  space  to  lowest  depths  of  hell !  " 

There  is  an  elaborate  article  on  the  subject  in  Goldstiicker's 
Dictionary.  In  after-times,  Yislmu's  bird  GaruiZa  is  said  to 
have  stolen  the  Amrfta,  but  it  was  recovered  by  Indxa. 

AXADHi?/SH2T.  A  son  of  Ugrasena  and  general  of  the 
Yadavas. 

AXAKA-DU:N'DUBHL  'Drums.'  A  name  of  Vasu-deva,  who 
was  so  called  because  the  drums  of  heaven  resounded  at  his  birth. 

AXAXDA.  'Joy,  happiness.'  An  appellation  of  ^iva,  also 
of  Bala-rama. 

ANAXDA  GIRL  A  follower  of  >Sankaracharya,  and  a 
teacher  and  expositor  of  his  doctrines.  He  w^as  the  author  of  a 
Sanhara-vijaya,  and  lived  about  the  tenth  century. 

AXAXDA-LAHARI.  '  The  w^ave  of  joy.'  A  poem  attributed 
to  ASankaracharya.  It  is  a  hymn  of  praise  addressed  to  ParvatI, 
consort  of  >Siva,  mixed  up  with  mystical  doctrine.  It  has  been 
translated  into  French  by  Troyer  as  LOnde  de  Beatitude. 

AXAXGA     'The  bodiless.'     A  name  of  Kama,  god  of  love. 

AXANTA.  'The  infinite.'  A  name  of  the  serpent  ^eslia. 
The  term  is  also  applied  to  Vishnu  and  other  deities. 

ANARAZVYA.  A  descendant  of  Ikshwiiku  and  king  of 
Ayodhyii.  According  to  the  Ramayawa,  many  kings  submitted 
to  Rava7?a  without  fighting,  but  when  Anara?iya  was  summoned 
to  fight  or  submit,  he  preferred  to  fight.  His  army  was  over- 
come and  he  was  thrown  from  his  chariot.  Rava^aa  triumphed 
over  his  prostrate  foe,  who  retorted  that  he  had  been  beaten  by 
fate,  not  by  Ravawa,  and  predicted  the  death  of  Rrn'a7?a  at  the 
hands  of  Rama,  a  descendant  of  Anara??ya. 

AXARGHA  RAGHA V A.  A  drama  in  seven  acts  by  Murfiri 
Misra,  possibly  written  in  the  thirteenth  or  fourteenth  century. 
Raghava  or  Rama  is  the  hero  of  the  piece.  "  It  has  no  dramatic 
merit,  being  deficient  in  character,  action,  situation,  and  interest 


AN-ARVA—ANGADA.  15 

As  a  poem  it  presents  occasionally  poetic  thoughts,  but  they  are 
very  few,  and  are  lost  amid  pages  of  flat  commonplace,  quaint 
conceit,  hyperbolical  extravagance,  and  obscure  mythology." — 
JFilson.     It  is  also  called,  after  its  author,  Murari  Na/aka. 

AN-ARYA.  'Unworthy,  vile.'  People  who  were  not  Aryans, 
barbarians  of  other  races  and  religion. 

ANAStJYA.  'Charity.'  Wife  of  the  i?ishi  Atri.  In  the 
Ramaya?^  she  appears  living  with  her  husband  in  a  hermitage 
in  the  forest  south  of  Chitra-kii/a,  She  was  very  pious  and 
given  to  austere  devotion,  through  which  she  had  obtained 
miraculous  powers.  When  Sita  visited  her  and  her  husban(  I, 
she  was  very  attentive  and  kind,  and  gave  Sita  an  ointment 
which  was  to  keep  her  beautiful  for  ever.  She  was  mother  of 
the  ii-ascible  sage  Durvasas.     A  friend  of  >S'akuntala. 

ANDHAKA.  i.  A  demon,  son  of  Kasyapa  and  Diti,  with  a 
thousand  arms  and  heads,  two  thousand  eyes  and  feet,  and  called 
Andliaka  because  he  walked  like  a  blind  man,  although  he  sa^v 
very  well.  He  was  slain  by  /Siva  when  he  attempted  to  carry 
off  the  Parijiita  tree  from  Swarga.  From  this  feat  iS'iva  obtained 
the  appellation  Andhaka-ripu,  '  foe  of  Andhaka.'  2.  A  grand- 
son of  Krosh^ri  and  son  of  Yudhajit,  of  the  Yadava  race, 
who,  together  with  his  brother  Yrisli?ii,  is  the  ancestor  of  the 
celebrated  family  of  Andliaka- Yrish^iis.  3.  The  name  was  borne 
by  many  others  of  less  note. 

ANDHRA,  ANTDHRA.  Xame  of  a  country  and  peoj)le  in 
the  south  of  India,  the  country  of  Telingana.  It  was  the  seat 
of  a  powerful  dynasty,  and  the  people  were  known  to  Pliny  as 
gens  Andarce. 

ANDHRA-BH^/TYA.  A  dynasty  of  kings  that  reigned  in 
Magadha  somewhere  about  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  era. 
The  name  seems  to  indicate  that  its  founder  was  a  native  of 
Andlira,  now  Telingana. 

AKGA.  I.  The  country  of  Bengal  proper  about  Bhagalpur. 
Its  capital  was  Champa,  or  Champa-pim.  {See  Anu.)  2.  A  sup- 
plement to  the  Vedas.     See  Vedanga. 

AXGADA.  I.  Son  of  Lakshma?m  and  king  of  Angadi, 
capital  of  a  country  near  the  Himalaya.  2.  Son  of  Gada  (brother 
of  K?ish?2a)  by  Vn'hati.  3.  Son  of  Ball,  the  monkey  king  of  Kish- 
kindhya.  He  was  protected  by  Rama  and  fought  on  his  sido 
against  Ravawa. 


i6  ANGIRAS—ANGIRASAS. 

ANGIRAS.  A  Pikhi  to  whom  many  hymns  of  the  i2ig-veda 
are  attributed.  He  was  one  of  the  seven  Maharshis  or  great 
it/shis,  and  also  one  of  the  ten  Prajapatis  or  progenitors  of  man- 
kind. In  later  times  Angiras  was  one  of  the  inspired  lawgivers, 
and  also  a  writer  on  astronomy.  As  an  astronomical  personifica- 
tion he  is  BrOiaspati,  the  regent  of  the  planet  Jupiter,  or  the 
planet  itself.  He  was  also  called  "the  priest  of  the  gods,"  and 
"the  lord  of  sacrifice."  There  is  much  ambiguity  about  the 
name.  It  comes  from  the  same  root  as  agnij  '  fire,'  and  resembles 
that  word  in  sound.  This  may  be  the  reason  why  the  name 
Angiras  is  used  as  an  epithet  or  synonjTue  of  Agni.  The  name 
is  also  employed  as  an  epithet  for  the  father  of  Agni,  and  it  is 
found  more  especially  connected  with  the  hymns  addressed  to 
Agni,  Indra,  and  the  luminous  deities.  According  to  one  state- 
ment, Angiras  was  the  son  of  Uru  by  Agne}a,  the  daughter  of 
Agni,  although,  as  above  stated,  the  name  is  sometimes  given  to 
the  father  of  Agni.  Another  account  represents  that  he  was 
born  from  the  mouth  of  Brahma.  His  wives  were  Sm?7'ti, 
'  memory, '  daughter  of  Daksha ;  iS'raddlia ,  '  faith,'  daughter  of 
Kardama ;  and  Swadlia  '  oblation,'  and  Sati,  '  truth,'  two  other 
daughters  of  Daksha.  His  daughters  were  the  ^ichas  or  Vaidik 
hymns,  and  his  sons  were  the  Manes  called  Havishmats.  But  he 
had  other  sons  and  daughters,  and  among  the  former  were 
Utathya,  Brihaspati,  and  Marka?z^eya.  According  to  the  Bhaga- 
vata  Purawa  "  he  begot  sons  possessing  Brahmanical  glory  on  the 
wife  of  Rathi-tara,  a  Kshatriya  who  was  childless,  and  these 
persons  were  afterwards  called  descendants  of  Angiras." 

ANGIRASAS,  ANGIRASES.  Descendants  of  Angiras. 
"  They  share  in  the  nature  of  the  legends  attributed  to  Angiras. 
Angiras  being  the  father  of  Agni,  they  are  considered  as 
descendants  of  Agni  himself,  who  is  also  called  the  first  of 
the  Angirasas.  Like  Angiras,  they  occur  in  hjonns  addressed  to 
the  luminous  deities,  and,  at  a  later  period,  they  become  for  the 
most  part  personifications  of  light,  of  luminous  bodies,  of  divi- 
sions of  time,  of  celestial  phenomena,  and  fires  adapted  to 
peculiar  occasions,  as  the  full  and  change  of  the  moon,  or  to 
particular  rites,  as  the  Aswa-medha,  Raja-suya,  &c." — Goldstilcher. 
In  the  /Sataj^atha  Bralima?ia  they  and  the  Adityas  are  said  to 
have  descended  from  Prajapati,  and  that  "  they  strove  together 
for  the  priority  in  ascending  to  heaven." 


ANGIRASAS—ANSUMA  T.  ij 

Some  descendants  of  Angiras  by  the  Kshatriya  wife  of  a 
childless  king  are  mentioned  in  the  Pura/^as  as  two  tribes  of 
Angirasas  who  were  Brahmans  as  well  as  Kshatriyas, 

The  hymns  of  the  Atharva-veda  are  called  Angirasas,  and  the 
descendants  of  Angiras  were  specially  charged  with  the  protec- 
tion of  sacrifices  performed  in  accordance  with  the  Atharva-veda. 
From  this  cause,  or  from  their  being  associated  with  the  descen- 
dants of  Atharvan,  they  were  called  distinctively  Atharvrmgirasas. 

ANGIRASAS.     A  class  of  Pitris  (q.v.). 

ANILA.     '  The  wind.'     See  Vayii. 

ANILAS.  A  ga?ia  or  class  of  deities,  forty-nine  in  number, 
connected  with  Anila,  the  wind. 

ANIMISHA.  'Who  does  not  wink.'  A  general  epithet  of 
all  gods. 

ANIRUDDHA.  'Uncontrolled.'  Son  of  Pradyiimna  and 
grandson  of  K?'^sh?^a.  He  married  his  cousin,  Su-bhadra.  A 
Daitya  princess  named  Usha,  daughter  of  Ba?ia,  fell  in  love  with 
him,  and  had  him  brought  by  magic  influence  to  her  apartments 
in  her  father's  city  of  Sonita-pura.  Ba/ia  sent  some  guards  to 
seize  him,  but  the  valiant  youth,  taking  an  iron  club,  slew  his 
assailants.  Ba?ia  then  brought  his  magic  powers  to  bear  and 
secured  him.  On  discovering  whither  Aniruddlia  had  been 
carried,  Krish??a,  Bala-rama,  and  Pradyumna  went  to  rescue 
him.  A  great  battle  was  fought ;  Ba?ia  was  aided  by  /S'iva  and 
by  Skanda,  god  of  war,  the  former  of  whom  was  overcome  by 
Kr'/sh?m,  and  the  latter  was  wounded  by  Garu(ia  and  Pradyumna. 
Bawa  was  defeated,  but  his  life  was  spared  at  the  intercession 
of  /Siva,  and  Aniruddlia  was  carried  home  to  Dwaraka  with 
Usha  as  his  wife.  He  is  also  called  Jhashanka  and  Usha-pati 
He  had  a  son  named  Vajra. 

AN  J  AN  A.  I.  The  elephant  of  the  west  or  south-west  quarter. 
2.  A  serpent  with  many  heads  descended  from  Kadru. 

ANJANA.     Mother  of  Hanumat  by  Vayu,  god  of  the  wind. 

ANNA-PURiVA.  '  Full  of  food. '  A  form  of  Durga,  worshipped 
for  her  power  of  giving  food     Cf.  the  Roman  Anna  Perenna. 

AN-SUMAT,  ANaSUMAN.  Son  of  Asamanjas  and  grandson 
of  Sagara.  He  brought  back  to  earth  the  horse  which  had  been 
carried  off  from  Sagara's  Aswa-medha  sacrifice,  and  he  discovered 
the  remains  of  that  king's  sixty  thousand  sons,  who  had  been 
killed  by  the  fire  of  the  wTath  of  Kapila. 

B 


i8  ANTAKA—APARNA. 

AXTAIvA.     '  The  ender.'    A  name  of  Yama,  judge  of  the  dead, 

ANTARlKSHA  The  atmosphere  or  firmament  between 
heaven  and  earth,  the  sphere  of  the  Gandharvas,  Apsarases,  and 
Yakshas. 

ANTARYEDI.  The  Doab  or  country  between  the  Ganges 
and  the  Jumna. 

ANU.  Son  of  King  Yayati  by  his  wife  Sarmish/ha,  a  Daitya 
princess.  He  refused  to  exchange  his  youthful  vigour  for  the 
curse  of  decrepitude  passed  upon  his  father,  and  in  consequence 
his  father  cursed  him  that  his  posterity  should  not  possess 
dominion.  Notwithstanding  this,  he  had  a  long  series  of  de- 
scendants, and  among  them  were  Anga,  Banga,  Kalinga,  &c., 
Avho  gave  their  names  to  the  countries  they  dwelt  in. 

AXUKRAMAA^I,  ANUKRAMAiVIKA.  An  index  or  table 
of  contents,  particularly  of  a  Veda.  The  Anukrama?as  of  the 
Vedas  follow  the  order  of  each  Sanhita,  and  assign  a  poet,  a 
metre,  and  a  deity  to  each  hymn  or  prayer.  There  are  several 
extant. 

ANUMATI.  The  moon  on  its  fifteenth  day,  when  just  short 
of  its  fuU.  In  this  stage  it  is  personified  and  worshipped  as  a 
goddess. 

ANU/S'ARA.     A  Rakshasa  or  other  demon. 

ANUVINDA     A  king  of  Ujjayini.     See  Yinda 

APARANTA.  'On  the  western  border.'  A  country  which 
is  named  in  the  Yish?iu  Pura»a  in  association  with  countries  in 
the  north ;  and  the  Yayu  Pura7ia  reads  the  name  as  Aparita, 
which  Wilson  says  is  a  northern  nation.  The  Hari-vansa,  how- 
ever, mentions  it  as  "a  country  conquered  by  Parasu-rama  from 
the  ocean,"  and  upon  this  the  translator  Langiois  observes  : 
"  Tradition  records  that  Parasu-rama  besought  Yaru7ia,  god  of 
the  sea,  to  grant  him  a  land  which  he  might  bestow  uj^on  the 
Erahmans  in  expiation  of  the  blood  of  the  Kshatriyas.  Yaru/^a 
withdrew  his  waves  from  the  heights  of  Ookar^a  (near 
Mangalore)  down  to  Cape  Comorin"  {As.  Researches,  v.  i). 
Tliis  agrees  with  tlic  traditions  concerning  Parasu-rama  and 
jNIalabar,  but  it  is  not  at  all  clear  how  a  gift  of  territory  to 
Erahmans  could  expiate  the  slaughter  of  the  Kshatriyas  by  a 
Erahman  and  in  behalf  of  Erahmans. 

APARYA.  According  to  the  liari-vansa,  the  eldest  daughter 
of  Ilimavat  and  Tvlena.     She  and  her  two  sisters,  Eka-par;ia  and 


APASTAMBA—APSARAS.  19 

Eka-pa/ala,  gave  themselves  up  to  austerity  and  practised 
extraordinary  abstinence;  but  while  her  sisters  lived,  as  their 
names  denote,  upon  one  leaf  or  on  one  pa/ala  (Blgnonia)  re- 
spectively, Apar?ia  managed  to  subsist  upon  nothing,  and  even 
lived  without  a  leaf  (a-parnd).  This  so  distressed  her  mother 
that  she  cried  out  in  deprecation,  'XJ-ma,'  'Oh,  don't.'  Aparwa 
thus  became  the  beautiful  Uma,  the  wife  of  *S'iva. 

APASTAMEA.  An  ancient  writer  on  ritual  and  law, 
author  of  Siitras  connected  with  the  Black  Yajur-veda  and  of  a 
Dharma-sastra.  He  is  often  quoted  in  law-books.  Two  recen- 
sions of  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita  are  ascribed  to  him  or  his  school. 
The  Sutras  have  been  translated  by  Biililer,  and  are  being  re- 
printed in  the  Sacred  Books  of  the  Bast  by  Max  Miiller. 

APAVA.  *Wlio  sports  in  the  waters.'  A  name  of  the 
same  import  as  Naraya?2a,  and  having  a  similar  though  not  an 
identical  application.  According  to  the  Brahma  Pura^^a  and  the 
Hari-vansa,  Apava  performed  the  office  of  the  creator  Brahma, 
and  divided  himself  into  two  parts,  male  and  female,  the  former 
begetting  offspring  upon  the  latter.  The  result  was  the  produc- 
tion of  Vish?iu,  who  created  Viraj,  who  brought  the  first  man 
into  the  world.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  Apava  is  a  name 
of  the  Prajapati  Vasishflia.  The  name  of  Apava  is  of  late  intro- 
duction and  has  been  vaguely  used.  Wilson  says  :  "  According 
to  the  commentator,  the  first  stage  was  the  creation  of  Apava  or 
Vasish/ha  or  Viraj  by  Yish?zu,  through  the  agency  of  Brahma, 
and  the  next  was  that  of  the  creation  of  Manu  by  Viraj." 

APSAEAS.  The  Apsarases  are  the  celebrated  nymphs  of 
Indra's  heaven.  The  name,  which  signifies  '  moving  in  the  water,' 
has  some  analogy  to  that  of  Aphrodite.  They  are  not  prominent 
in  the  Vedas,  but  Urvasi  and  a  few  others  are  mentioned.  In 
Manu  they  are  said  to  be  the  creations  of  the  seven  Manus.  In 
the  epic  poems  they  become  prominent,  and  the  Eamaj^awa  and 
the  Purawas  attribute  their  origin  to  the  churning  of  the  ocean. 
(See  Am?'ita.)  It  is  said  that  when  they  came  forth  from  the 
waters  neither  the  gods  nor  the  Asuras  would  have  them  for 
wives,  so  they  became  common  to  all.  They  have  the  appella- 
tions of  Suranganas,  '  wives  of  the  gods,'  and  Sumad-atmajas, 
*  daughters  of  pleasure.' 

"  Then  from  the  agitated  deep  up  sprung 
The  legion  of  Apsarases,  so  named 


20  APSARAS—ARANYAKA. 

That  to  tlie  watery  element  tliey  owed 
Tlieii-  being.     Myriads  were  they  born,  and  all 
In  vesture  heavenly  clad,  and  heavenly  gems  : 
Yet  more  divine  their  native  semblance,  rich 
With  all  the  gifts  of  grace,  of  youth  and  beauty. 
A  train  innumerous  followed  ;  yet  thus  fair, 
Kor  god  nor  demon  sought  their  wedded  love  : 
Thus  Ea;j;hava  !  they  still  remain — their  charms 
The  conmion  treasui'e  of  the  host  of  heaven." 

— {Rdmdijana)  Wilson. 

In  the  Pura7^as  various  ga/ias  or  classes  of  tliem  are  mentioned 
with  distinctive  names.  The  Vayn  Pura^ia  enumerates  fourteen, 
the  Ilari-vansa  seven  classes.  They  are  again  distinguished  as 
being  rftu'ivX-a,  'divine,'  oilaukika,  'worldly.'  The  former  are  said 
to  be  ten  in  number  and  the  latter  thirty-four,  and  these  are  the 
heavenly  charmers  who  fascinated  heroes,  as  Urvasi,  and  allured 
austere  sages  from  their  devotions  and  penances,  as  Menaka  and 
Eambha.  The  Ka^i-khawf/a  says  "  there  are  thirty-five  millions 
of  them,  but  only  one  thousand  and  sixty  are  the  principal." 
Tlie  Apsarases,  then,  are  fairyhke  beings,  beautiful  and  volup- 
tuous. They  are  the  wives  or  the  mistresses  of  the  Gandharvas, 
and  are  not  prudish  in  the  dispensation  of  their  favours.  Their 
amours  on  earth  have  been  numerous,  and  they  are  the  rew^ards 
in  Indra's  paradise  held  out  to  heroes  who  fall  in  battle.  They 
have  the  power  of  changing  their  forms ;  they  are  fond  of  dice, 
and  give  luck  to  whom  they  favour.  In  the  Atharva-veda  they 
are  not  so  amiable ;  they  are  supposed  to  produce  madness  (love's 
madness?),  and  so  there  are  charms  and  incantations  for  use 
against  them.  There  is  a  long  and  exliaustive  article  on  the 
Apsarases  in  Goldstlicker's  JDidlonary,  from  which  much  of 
the  above  has  been  adapted.  As  regards  their  origin  he  makes 
the  following  speculative  observations: — "Originally  these 
divinities  seem  to  have  been  personifications  of  the  vapours 
wliich  are  attracted  by  the  sun  and  form  into  mist  or  clouds ; 
their  character  may  be  thus  interpreted  in  the  few  hymns  of  tho 
it'ig-veda  where  mention  is  made  of  them.  At  a  subsequent 
period  .  .  .  (their  attributes  expanding  with  those  of  their 
associates  the  Gandliarvas),  they  became  divinities  which  repre- 
sent phenomena  or  objects  both  of  a  physical  and  ethical  kind 
closely  associated  with  that  life  "  (the  elementary  life  of  heaven). 

AKAiVYAKA.     'Belonging to  the  forest.'     Certain  religious 


ARANYANI—ARJUNA.  21 

and  pliilosopliical  writings  which  expound  the  mystical  sense 
of  the  ceremonies,  discuss  the  nature  of  God,  &c.  They  are 
attached  to  the  Brahma??  as,  and  intended  for  study  in  the 
forest  by  Brahmans  who  have  retired  from  the  distractions  of  the 
world.  There  are  four  of  them  extant :  i.  Brihad  ;  2.  Taittiriya; 
3.  Aitareya ;  and  4,  Kaushitaki  AraTzyaka.  The  Ara??yakas  are 
closely  connected  with  the  Upanishads,  and  the  names  are 
occasionally  used  interchangeably:  thus  the  Brihad  is  called 
indifferently  Bn'had  Ara;?yaka  or  Brzhad  Ara7^yaka  Upani- 
shad ;  it  is  attached  to  the  ^S'atapatha  Brahma?za.  The  Aitareya 
Upanishad  is  a  part  of  the  Aitareya  Brahma?ia,  and  the  Kaushi- 
taki AraTiyaka  consists  of  three  chapters,  of  which  the  third  is  the 
Kaushitaki  Upanishad.  "  Traces  of  modern  ideas  (says  Max 
Miiller)  are  not  wanting  in  the  Ara?zyakas,  and  the  very  fact 
that  they  are  destined  for  a  class  of  men  who  had  retired  from 
the  world  in  order  to  give  themselves  up  to  the  contemplation  of 
the  highest  problems,  shows  an  advanced  and  already  declining 
and  decaying  society,  not  unlike  the  monastic  age  of  the 
Christian  world."  "  In  one  sense  the  Ara?iyakas  are  old,  for  they 
reflect  the  very  dawn  of  thought ;  in  another  they  are  modern, 
for  they  speak  of  that  dawn  with  all  the  experience  of  a  past 
day.  There  are  passages  in  these  works  unequalled  in  any 
language  for  grandeur,  boldness,  and  simplicity.  These  passages 
are  the  relics  of  a  better  age.  But  the  generation  which  became 
the  chronicler  of  those  Titanic  wars  of  thought  was  a  small  race ; 
they  were  dwarfs,  measuring  the  footsteps  of  departed  giants." 

ARANYA#I.  In  the  itig-veda,  the  goddess  of  woods  and 
forests. 

ARBUDA.  ]\Iount  Abu.  Name  of  the  people  living  in  the 
vicinity  of  that  mountain. 

ARBUDA.     *  A  serpent.'     !N"ame  of  an  Asura  slain  by  India. 

ARDHA-NARl.  'Half-woman.'  A  form  in  which  ^S'iva  is 
represented  as  half-male  and  half-female,  typifying  the  male  and 
female  energies.  There  are  several  stories  accounting  for  this 
form.     It  is  called  also  Ardhanarisa  and  Parangada. 

ARISHJA.  A  Daitya,  and  son  of  Bali,  who  attacked  K?'?sh?za 
in  the  form  of  a  savage  bull,  and  was  slain  by  him. 

ARJUNA.  '  Wliite.'  The  name  of  the  third  Pandu  prince. 
All  the  five  brothers  were  of  divine  paternity,  and  Arjuna's 
father  was  Indra,  hence  he  is  called  Aindri.     A  brave  warrior. 


22  ARJUNA. 

liigli-minded,  generous,  upright,  and  handsome,  the  most  pro- 
minent and  the  most  amiable  and  interesting  of  the  five  hrothers. 
He  Avas  taught  the  use  of  arms  by  Dro7ia,  and  was  his  favourite 
pupil  By  his  skill  in  arms  he  won  Draupadi  at  her  Swayam- 
vara.  For  an  involuntary  transgression  he  imposed  upon  him- 
self twelve  years'  exile  from  his  family,  and  during  that  time 
he  visited  Parasu-rama,  who  gave  liim  instruction  in  the  use  of 
arms.  He  at  this  period  formed  a  connection  with  Uliipi,  a 
Naga  princess,  and  by  her  had  a  son  named  Iravat.  He  also 
married  Cliitrangada,  the  daughter  of  the  king  of  :Ma?npura,  by 
whom  he  had  a  son  named  Babhru-vahana.  He  visited  K?-ish?2a 
at  Dwaraka,  and  there  he  married  Su-bhadra,  the  sister  of 
Kr/shTia,  {See  Su-bhadra.)  By  her  he  had  a  son  named 
Abhimau}-!!.  Afterwards  he  obtained  the  bow  Ga?zf/Iva  from 
the  god  Agni,  with  which  to  fight  against  Indra,  and  he  assisted 
Agni  in  burning  the  Khaw^ava  forest.  Wlien  Yudhi-shifhira 
lost  the  kingdom  by  gambling,  and  the  five  brothers  went  into 
exile  for  thirteen  years,  Arjuna  proceeded  on  a  pilgrimage  to 
the  Himalayas  to  propitiate  the  gods,  and  to  obtain  from  them 
celestial  weapons  for  use  in  the  contemplated  war  against  the 
Kauravas.  There  he  fought  with  iS'iva,  who  appeared  in  the 
guise  of  a  Kirata  or  mountaineer ;  but  Arjuna,  having  found 
out  the  true  character  of  his  adversary,  worshipped  him,  and  ^Siva 
gave  him  the  pasupata,  one  of  his  most  powerful  weapons. 
Indra,  VaruTia,  Yama,  and  Kuvera  came  to  him,  and  also  pre- 
sented him  with  their  own  peculiar  w^eapons.  Indra,  his  father, 
carried  him  in  his  car  to  his  heaven  and  to  his  capital  AmaravatI, 
where  Arjuna  spent  some  years  in  the  practice  of  arms.  Indra 
sent  him  against  the  Daityas  of  the  sea,  whom  he  vanquished, 
and  then  returned  victorious  to  Indra,  who  "  presented  liim 
with  a  chain  of  gold  and  a  diadem,  and  with  a  war-shell  which 
sounded  like  thunder."  In  the  thirteenth  year  of  exile  he 
entered  the  service  of  Raja  Vira/a,  disguised  as  a  eunuch,  and 
acted  as  music  and  dancing  master,  but  in  the  end  he  took  a 
leading  part  in  defeating  the  king's  enemies,  the  king  of  Trigarta 
und  the  Kaurava  princes,  many  of  whose  leading  warriors  he 
van(iui.sh(,'d  in  single  combat.  Preparations  for  the  great  struggle 
with  the  Kauravas  now  began.  Arjuna  obtained  the  personal 
assistance  of  KnshTia,  who  acted  as  his  charioteer,  and,  before 
the  gTeat  battle  began,  related  to  him  the  Bhagavad-gitiL      On 


ARJUNA—ARUNA.  01 


J 


tlie  tenth  day  of  the  battle  he  mortally  wounded  Bhishma ;  on 
the  twelfth  he  defeated  Susarman  and  his  four  brothers ;  on 
the  fourteenth  he  killed  Jayadratha ;  on  the  seventeenth,  he 
was  so  stung  by  some  reproaches  of  his  brother,  Yudhi-sh^hira, 
that  he  would  have  killed  him  had  not  Iv?ish?ia  interposed. 
On  the  same  day  he  fought  with  KarTza,  who  had  made  a  vow 
to  slay  him.  He  was  near  being  vanquished  when  an  accident 
to  KarTza's  chariot  gave  Arjuna  the  opportunity  of  killing  him. 
After  the  defeat  of  the  Kauravas,  Aswatthaman,  son  of  Drowa, 
and  two  others,  who  were  the  sole  survivors,  made  a  night  attack 
on  the  camp  of  the  Pa/i-c/avas,  and  murdered  their  children. 
Arjuna  pursued  Aswatthaman,  and  made  him  give  up  the 
precious  jewel  which  he  wore  upon  his  head  as  an  amulet. 
"V\nien  the  horse  intended  for  Yudhi-sh;!hira's  Aswa-medha  sac- 
rifice was  let  loose,  Arjuna,  with  his  army,  followed  it  through 
many  cities  and  countries,  and  fought  with  many  Rajas.  He 
entered  the  country  of  Trigarta,  and  had  to  fight  his  way  through. 
He  fought  also  against  Yajradatta,  who  had  a  famous  elephant, 
and  against  the  Saindhavas.  At  the  city  of  Mardpura  he  fought 
with  his  own  son,  Babhru-vahana,  and  was  killed ;  but  he  was 
restored  to  life  by  a  Naga  charm  supplied  by  his  wife  UliipT. 
Afterwards  he  penetrated  into  the  Dakshi/ia  or  south  country,  and 
fought  with  the  Nishadas  and  DravifZians  :  then  went  westwards 
to  Gujarat,  and  finally  conducted  the  horse  back  to  Hastinapura, 
where  the  great  sacrifice  was  performed.  He  was  subsequently 
called  to  Dwaraka  by  Ivnshwa  amid  the  internecine  struggles 
of  the  Yadavas,  and  there  he  performed  the  funeral  ceremonies 
of  Yasudeva  and  of  Knsh?ia.  Soon  after  this  he  retired  from 
the  world  to  the  Himalayas.  {See,  Maha-bharata. )  He  had  a 
son  named  Iravat  by  the  serpent  nymph  Ulupi ;  Babhru-vahana, 
by  the  daughter  of  the  king  of  Mampura,  became  king  of  that 
country ;  Abhimanyu,  born  of  his  wife  Su-bhadra,  was  killed 
in  the  great  battle,  but  the  kingdom  of  Hastinapura  descended 
to  his  son  Parikshit.  Arjuna  has  many  appellations  :  Bibhatsu, 
Gu(ia-kesa,  Dhananjaya,  Jishmi,  Kirl/in,  Paka-sasani,  Phiilguna, 
Savya-sachin,  ^Sweta-vahana,  and  Partha. 

ARJUNA.  Son  of  K?'ita-vlrya,  king  of  the  Haihayas.  He 
is  better  known  under  his  patronymic  Kiirta-virya  (q.v.). 

ARTHA-aS'ASTRA.     The  useful  arts.     IMechanical  science. 

ARUA^A.   '  Red,  rosy.'  The  dawn,  personified  as  the  charioteer 


24  ARUNDHA  TI—ARYAVARTA. 

of  the  sun.  This  is  of  later  origin  than  the  Vedic  TJshas  (q.v.). 
He  is  said  to  be  the  son  of  Kasyapa  and  Kadru.  He  is  also 
called  Rumra,  '  tawny,'  and  by  two  epithets  of  which  the  mean- 
ing is  not  obvious,  An-uru,  '  thighless,'  and  A.smana,  '  stony.' 

ARUXDHATI.  The  morning  star,  personified  as  the  wife  of 
the  it/shi  Yasish^ha,  and  a  model  of  conjugal  excellence. 

ARUSHA,  ARUSHL  '  Red.'  '  A  red  horse.'  In  the  Big- 
veda  the  red  horses  or  mares  of  the  sun  or  of  fire.     The  rising  sun. 

ARYAX,  ARVA  'A  horse.'  One  of  the  horses  of  the 
moon.  A  fabulous  animal,  half-horse,  half-bird,  on  which  the 
Daityas  are  supposed  to  ride. 

ARVAYASU.     8ee  Raibhya. 

ARYA,  ARYAX.  'Loyal,  faithful'  The  name  of  the  im- 
migrant race  from  which  all  that  is  Hindu  originated.  The 
name  by  which  the  people  of  the  jRig-veda  "  called  men  of  their 
own  stock  and  rehgion,  in  contradistinction  to  the  Dasyus  (or 
Dasas),  a  term  by  which  we  either  understand  hostile  demons 
or  the  rude  aboriginal  tribes  "  of  India,  who  were  An-aryas. 

ARYA-BHArA.  The  earliest  known  Hindu  writer  on  alge- 
bra, and,  according  to  Colebrooke,  "  if  not  the  inventor,  the 
improver  of  that  analysis,"  which  has  made  but  little  advance  in 
India  since.  He  was  born,  according  to  his  own  account,  at 
Kusuma-pura  (Patna),  in  a.d.  476,  and  composed  his  first  astro- 
nomical work  at  the  early  age  of  tw^enty-three.    His  larger  work, 

the  Arya  Slddhdnta,  was  produced  at  a  riper  age.  He  is  pro- 
bably the  Andubarius  (Ardubarius  f)  of  the  Chronichon  Faschale, 
and  the  Arjabahr  of  the  Arabs.     Two  of  his  works,  the  Dasdglti- 

saira  and  Aryctshtasata,  have  been  edited  by  Kern  under  the 
title  of  Aryabha^Iya.  See  Whitney  in  Jour.  Arner.  Or.  Society 
for  i860,  Dr.  Bhau  Daji  in  /.  E.  A.  S.  for  1865,  and  Barth  in 
Ilevue  Critique  for  1875.  There  is  another  and  later  astronomer 
of  the  same  name,  distinguished  as  Laghu  Arya-bha/a,  i.e.,  Arya- 
bha/a  the  Less. 

ARYAIMAN.  'A  bosom  friend.'  i.  Chief  of  the  Pitris.  2. 
One  of  the  Adityas.     3.   One  of  the  Yiswe-devas. 

ARYA  SIDDHANTA.  The  system  of  astronomy  founded 
by  Arya-bha/a  in  liis  work  bearing  this  name. 

ARYAYARTA.  'The  land  of  the  Aryas.'  The  tract  between 
the  Himalaya  and  the  Yindhya  ranges,  from  the  eastern  to  the 
western  sea. — Manu. 


ASAMANJAS—ASHTAVAKRA.  25 

ASAMANJAS.  Son  of  Sagara  and  Kesini.  He  was  a  wild 
and  wicked  young  man,  and  was  abandoned  by  his  father,  but 
he  succeeded  him  as  king,  and,  according  to  the  Hari-vansa,  he 
was  afterwards  famous  for  valour  under  the  name  of  Panchajana. 

ASAlsTGA.  Author  of  some  verses  in  the  i?*g-veda.  He  was 
son  of  Playoga,  but  was  changed  into  a  woman  by  the  curse  of 
the  gods.  He  recovered  his  male  form  by  repentance  and  the 
favour  of  the  i^^shi  Medhatithi,  to  whom  he  gave  abundant 
wealth,  and  addressed  the  verses  preserved  in  the  Veda. 

AaS'AEA.     a  Rakshasa  or  other  demon. 

ASHrAVAKRA.  A  Brahman,  the  son  of  Kahof^a,  whose 
story  is  told  in  the  Maha-bharata.  Kahotia  married  a  daughter 
of  his  preceptor,  Ucldalaka,  but  he  was  so  devoted  to  study  that 
he  neglected  his  wife.  Wlien  she  was  far  advanced  in  her 
pregnancy,  the  unborn  son  was  provoked  at  his  father's  neglect 
of  her,  and  rebuked  him  for  it.  Kahoc?a  was  angry  at  the 
child's  impertinence,  and  condemned  him  to  be  born  crooked ;  so 
he  came  forth  with  his  eight  (ashta)  limbs  crooked  (vaJcra) ;  hence 
his  name.  Kaho6?a  went  to  a  great  sacrifice  at  the  court  of 
Janaka,  king  of  Mithila.  There  was  present  there  a  great 
Buddhist  sage,  who  challenged  disputations,  upon  the  under- 
standin!^  that  whoever  was  overcome  in  arcrument  should  be 
thrown  into  the  river.  This  was  the  fate  of  many,  and  among 
them  of  Kahoc?a,  who  was  drowned.  In  his  twelfth  year  Ash- 
tavakra  learned  the  manner  of  his  father's  death,  and  set  out  to 
avenge  him.  The  lad  was  possessed  of  great  ability  and  wisdom. 
He  got  the  better  of  the  sage  who  had  worsted  his  father,  and 
insisted  that  the  sage  should  be  thrown  into  the  water.  The 
sage  then  declared  himself  to  be  a  son  of  YaruTza,  god  of  the 
waters,  •  who  had  sent  him  to  obtain  Brahmans  for  officiating  at 
a  sacrifice  by  overpowering  them  in  argument  and  throwing 
them  into  the  water.  "Wlien  all  was  explained  and  set  right, 
Kaho(/a  directed  his  son  to  bathe  in  the  Samanga  river,  on  doing 
which  the  lad  became  perfectly  straight.  A  story  is  told  in  the 
VisliTiu  Pura?ia  that  Ashtavakra  was  standing  in  water  perform- 
ing penances  when  he  was  seen  by  some  celestial  nymj)hs  and 
worshipped  by  them.  He  was  pleased,  and  told  them  to  ask  a 
boon.  They  asked  for  the  best  of  men  as  a  husband.  He  came 
out  of  the  water  and  offered  himself.  "When  they  saw  him, 
ugly  and  crooked  in  eight  places,  they  laughed  in  derision.     He 


26  ASIKNI—ASOKA. 

•was  angry,  and  as  lie  could  not  recall  his  blessing,  he  said  that, 
after  obtaining  it,  they  should  fall  into  the  hands  of  thieves. 

ASTKNL     The  Vedic  name  of  the  Chinab,  and  probably  the 
origin  of  the  classic  Akesines. 

A-.SIRA?^.     '  Headless.'     Spirits  or  beings  "without  heads. 

A/S'^rAKA.     Son  of  MadayantI,  the  wife  of  Kalmasha-pada 
or  Saudasa,     See  Kalmusha-pada, 

A6'0KA.  A  celebrated  king  of  the  Maurya  dynasty  of 
!Magadha,  and  grandson  of  its  founder,  Chandra-gupta.  "  This 
king  is  the  most  celebrated  of  any  in  the  annals  of  the 
])uddhists.  In  the  commencement  of  his  reign  he  followed  the 
lirahmanical  faith,  but  became  a  convert  to  that  of  Buddha,  and 
a  zealous  encourager  of  it.  He  is  said  to  have  maintained  in 
liis  palace  64,000  Euddhist  priests,  and  to  have  erected  84,000 
columns  (or  topes)  throughout  India.  A  great  convocation  of 
liuddhist  priests  was  held  in  the  eighteenth  year  of  his  reign, 
which  was  followed  by  missions  to  Ceylon  and  other  places." 
He  reigned  thirty-six  years,  from  about  234  to  198  B.C.,  and 
exercised  authority  more  or  less  direct  from  Afghanistan  to 
Ceylon.  This  fact  is  attested  by  a  number  of  very  curious  Pali 
inscriptions  found  engraven  upon  rocks  and  pillars,  all  of  them 
of  the  same  purport,  and  some  of  them  almost  identical  in  words, 
the  variations  showing  little  more  than  dialectic  differences. 
Tliat  found  at  Kapur-di-giri,  in  Afghanistan,  is  in  the  Bactrian 
Pali  character,  written  from  right  to  left ;  all  the  others  are  in 
the  India  Pali  character,  written  from  left  to  right.  The  latter 
is  the  oldest  known  form  of  the  character  now  in  use  in  India, 
but  the  modern  letters  have  departed  so  far  from  their  proto- 
types that  it  required  all  the  acumen  and  diligence  of  James 
I'rinsep  to  decipher  the  ancient  forms.  These  inscriptions  show 
.1  great  tenderness  for  animal  life,  and  are  Buddliist  in  their 
diaracter,  but  they  do  not  enter  upon  the  distinctive  peculiarities 
of  that  religion.  The  name  of  A^'oka  never  occurs  in  them ;  the 
king  who  set  them  up  is  called Piyadasi  (Sans.  Priya-dar^i),  'the 
beautiful,'  and  he  is  entitled  Devanam-piya,  *  the  beloved  of  the 
gods.'  Buddhist  writings  identify  this  I'iyadasi  with  Asoka,  and 
little  or  no  doubt  is  entertained  of  the  two  names  represent- 
ing the  same  person.  One  of  the  most  curious  passages  in 
these  inscriptions  refers  to  the  Greek  king  Antiochus,  calling 
him  and  tlirec  others  "  Turamayo,  Antakana,  Mako,  and  Alika- 


ASRAMA—ASURA.  27 

simari,"  which  represent  Ptolemy,  Antigonus,  Magas,  and  Alex- 
ander. "  The  date  of  Asoka  is  not  exactly  that  of  Antiochus 
the  Great,  but  it  is  not  very  far  different ;  and  the  corrections 
required  to  make  it  correspond  are  no  more  than  the  inexact 
manner  in  which  both  Brahmanical  and  Buddliist  chronology 
is  preserved  may  well  be  expected  to  render  necessary."  See 
Wilson's  note  in  the  VisliTiu  Pura?ia,  his  article  in  the  Journal 
of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Socidij,  vol.  xii.,  Max  IVriiller's  Ancient 
Sanskrit  Literature,  and  an  article  by  Sir  E.  Perry  in  vol.  iii.  of 
the  Journal  of  the  Bombay  Asiatic  Society. 

A/S'RAMA.  There  are  four  stages  in  the  life  of  a  Brahman 
which  are  called  by  this  name.     See  Brahman. 

ASTlKA.  An  ancient  sage,  son  of  Jarat-karu  by  a  sister  of 
the  great  serpent  Vasuki.  He  saved  the  life  of  the  serpent 
Takshaka  when  Janamejaya  made  his  great  sacrifice  of  serpents, 
and  induced  that  king  to  forego  his  persecution  of  the  serpent  race. 

ASURA.  '  Spiritual,  divine.'  In  the  oldest  parts  of  the  Eig- 
veda  this  term  is  used  for  the  supreme  spirit,  and  is  the  same  as 
the  Ahura  of  the  Zoroastrians.  In  the  sense  of  '  god '  it  w^as 
applied  to  several  of  the  chief  deities,  as  to  Indra,  Agni,  and 
Varuwa.  It  afterwards  acquired  an  entirely  opposite  meaning, 
and  came  to  signify,  as  now,  a  demon  or  enemy  of  the  gods. 
The  word  is  found  with  this  signification  in  the  later  parts  of  the 
i^ig-veda,  particularly  in  the  last  book,  and  also  in  the  Atharva- 
veda.  The  Brahma??  as  attach  the  same  meaning  to  it,  and 
record  many  contests  between  the  Asuras  and  the  gods.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Taittirlya  Brahma?ia,  the  breath  (asu)  of  Prajapati 
became  alive,  and  "with  that  breath  he  created  the  Asuras." 
In  another  part  of  the  same  work  it  is  said  that  Prajapati  "  be- 
came pregnant.  He  created  Asuras  from  his  abdomen."  The 
/S'atapatha  Brahma^za  accords  with  the  former  statement,  and 
states  that  "  he  created  Asuras  from  his  lower  breath."  The 
Taittiriya  Ara?iyaka  represents  that  Prajapati  created  "gods, 
men,  fathers,  Gandharvas,  and  Apsarases  "  from  water,  and  that 
the  Asuras,  Rakshasas,  and  Pisachas  sprang  from  the  drops 
which  were  spilt.  Manu's  statement  is  that  they  were  created 
by  the  Prajapatis.  According  to  the  Vish?iu  Pura?2a,  they  were 
produced  from  the  groin  of  Brahma  (Prajapati).  The  account 
of  the  Vayu  Pura?2a  is  :  "  Asuras  were  first  produced  as  sons 
from  his  (Prajapati's)  groin.     Asu  is  declared  by  Brahmans  to 


28  ASURJ—ASWA-MEDHA. 

mean  breath.  From  it  these  beings  were  produced ;  hence  they 
are  Asiiras."  The  word  has  long  been  used  as  a  general  name 
for  the  enemies  of  the  gods,  including  the  Daityas  and  Danavas 
and  otlier  descendants  of  Kasyapa,  but  not  including  the 
Rakshasas  descended  from  Pulastya.  In  this  sense  a  different 
derivation  has  been  found  for  it :  the  source  is  no  longer  as,u, 
'  breath/  but  the  initial  a  is  taken  as  the  negative  prefix,  and 
a-sura  signifies  '  not  a  god ; '  hence,  according  to  some,  arose  the 
word  sura,  commonly  used  for  'a  god.'     See  Sura. 

ASURI.  One  of  the  earliest  professors  of  the  Sankhya 
philosoj^hy. 

AjS'WALAYAXA.  a  celebrated  writer  of  antiquity.  He 
was  pupil  of  /Saunaka,  and  was  author  of  /S'rauta-siitras,  Grihya- 
sutras,  and  other  works  upon  ritual,  as  well  as  founder  of  a 
iSakha  of  the  i^/g-veda.  The  Sutras  have  been  published  by  Dr. 
Stenzler,  and  also  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica. 

AjSWA-]\IEDHA  '  The  sacrifice  of  a  horse.'  This  is  a  sacri- 
fice which,  in  Vedic  times,  was  performed  by  kings  desirous  of 
offspring.  The  horse  was  killed  with  certain  ceremonies,  and 
the  wives  of  the  king  had  to  pass  the  night  by  its  carcase. 
Upon  the  cliief  wife  fell  the  duty  of  going  through  a  revolting 
formality  which  can  only  be  hinted  at.  Subsequently,  as  in  the 
time  of  the  Maha-bharata,  the  sacrifice  obtained  a  high  import- 
ance and  significance.  It  was  performed  only  by  kings,  and 
implied  that  he  who  instituted  it  was  a  conqueror  and  king  of 
kings.  It  was  believed  that  the  performance  of  one  hundred 
such  sacrifices  would  enable  a  mortal  king  to  overtlu'ow  the 
throne  of  Indra,  and  to  become  the  ruler  of  the  universe  and 
sovereign  of  the  gods.  A  horse  of  a  particular  colour  was  con- 
secrated by  the  performance  of  certain  ceremonies,  and  was  then 
turned  loose  to  wander  at  wiU  for  a  year.  The  king,  or  his 
representative,  followed  the  horse  with  an  army,  and  Avlien  the 
animal  entered  a  foreign  country,  the  ruler  of  that  country  was 
bound  either  to  fight  or  to  submit.  If  the  liberator  of  the 
horse  succeeded  in  obtaining  or  enforcing  the  submission  of  all 
the  countries  over  which  it  passed,  he  returned  in  triumph  with 
the  vanquished  Riljas  in  his  train ;  but  if  he  failed,  he  was  dis- 
graced and  his  pretensions  ridiculed.  After  the  successful 
return  a  great  festival  was  held,  at  which  the  horse  was  sacri- 
ficed, either  really  or  figuratively. 


A  S  WA-MUKHA—A  S  WINS.  29 

ASAYA-MUKHA.     'Horse  faced.'     /S'^^e  Kinnara. 

A>SWA-PATI.   '  Lord  of  horses. '  An  appellation  of  many  kings. 

ASAVATTHAMAK  Son  of  Dro?ia  and  Kripa,  and  one  of 
the  generals  of  the  Kauravas.  Also  called  by  his  patronymic 
Drau?iayana.  After  the  last  great  battle,  in  which  Dur-yodhana 
was  mortally  wounded,  Aswatthaman  with  two  other  warriors, 
Kripa  and  Krita-varman,  were  the  sole  survivors  of  the  Kaurava 
host  that  were  left  effective.  Aswatthaman  was  made  the  com- 
mander. He  was  fierce  in  his  hostility  to  the  Pa'/ic?avas,  and 
craved  for  revenge  upon  Dh?-ish^a-dyumna,  who  had  slain  his 
father,  Dro?za.  These  three  surviving  Kauravas  entered  the 
Pa?zc?ava  camp  at  night.  They  found  Dh?'ish/a-dyumna  asleep, 
and  Aswa^/haman  stamped  him  to  death  as  he  lay.  He  then  killed 
/S'ikhandin,  the  other  son  of  Drupada,  and  he  also  killed  the  five 
young  sons  of  the  Pa7ic?avas  and  carried  their  heads  to  the  dying 
Dur-yodhana.  He  killed  Parikshit,  while  yet  unborn  in  the 
womb  of  his  mother,  with  his  celestial  weapon  Brahmastra,  by 
which  he  incurred  the  curse  of  Krisli?za,  who  restored  Parikshit 
to  life.  On  the  next  morning  he  and  his  comrades  fled,  but 
Draupadi  clamoured  for  revenge  upon  the  murderer  of  her 
children.  Yudhi-sh;!hira  represented  that  Aswatthaman  was  a 
Braliman,  and  pleaded  for  his  life.  She  then  consented  to 
forego  her  demand  for  liis  blood  if  the  precious  and  protective 
jewel  which  he  wore  on  his  head  were  brought  to  her.  Bhima, 
Arjuna,  and  K?'ish?2a  then  went  in  pursuit  of  him.  Arjuna  and 
K?'ish72.a  overtook  him,  and  compelled  him  to  give  up  the  jewel 
They  carried  it  to  Draupadi,  and  she  gave  it  to  Yudlii-sh^hira, 
who  afterwards  wore  it  on  his  head. 

A^WINS,  AaSWINAU  (dual),  A^S'WINl  KUMAEAS. 
'  Horsemen.'  Dioskouroi.  Two  Vedic  deities,  twin  sons  of  the 
sun  or  the  sky.  They  are  ever  young  and  handsome,  bright, 
and  of  golden  brilliancy,  agile,  swift  as  falcons,  and  possessed  of 
many  forms ;  and  they  ride  in  a  golden  car  drawn  by  horses  or 
birds,  as  harbingers  of  Ushas,  the  dawn.  "  They  are  the  earhest 
bringers  of  light  in  the  morning  sky,  who  in  their  chariot  hasten 
onwards  before  the  dawn  and  prepare  the  way  for  her." — Roth. 
As  personifications  of  the  morning  twihght,  they  are  said  to  be 
children  of  the  sun  by  a  nymph  who  concealed  herself  in  the 
form  of  a  mare ;  hence  she  was  called  Aswini  and  her  sons 
Aswins.     But  inasmuch  as  they  precede  the  rise  of   the  sun, 


30  ASlVIiVS. 

they  are  called  his  parents  in  his  form  Puslian.  Mythically 
they  are  the  parents  of  the  Pa?Z6?u  princes  Nakula  and  Sahadeva. 
Their  attributes  are  numerous,  hut  relate  mostly  to  youth  and 
beauty,  light  and  speed,  duality,  the  curative  power,  and  active 
benevolence.  The  number  of  hymns  addressed  to  them  testify 
to  the  enthusiastic  worship  they  received.  They  were  the 
physicians  of  Swarga,  and  in  this  character  are  called  Dasras 
and  iS^asatyas,  Gadagadau  and  Swar-vaidyau  ;  or  one  was  Dasra 
and  the  other  Nasatya.  Other  of  their  apjDellations  are  Abdhi- 
jau,  '  ocean  bom  ; '  Pushkara-srajau,  '  wreathed  with  lotuses  ;' 
Earfaveyau,  sons  of  the  submarine  fire,  Baf/ava.  Many  instances 
are  recorded  of  their  benevolence  and  their  power  of  healing. 
They  restored  the  sage  Chyavana  to  youth,  and  prolonged  his 
life  when  he  had  become  old  and  decrepit,  and  through  his 
instrumentality  they  were  admitted  to  partake  of  the  libations 
of  soma,  Hke  the  other  gods,  although  Indra  strongly  opposed 
them.  (aS'^c  Chyavana.)  The  Aswins,  says  Muir,  "  have  been 
a  puzzle  to  the  oldest  commentators,"  who  have  differed  widely 
in  their  explanations.  According  to  different  interpretations 
quoted  in  the  ISTirukta,  they  were  "  heaven  and  earth,"  "  day 
and  night,"  "  two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acts."  The  follow- 
ing is  the  view  taken  of  them  by  the  late  Professor  Goldstiicker, 
as  printed  in  IMuir's  Texts,  vol.  v.  : — 

"  The  myth  of  the  Aswins  is,  in  my  opinion,  one  of  that 
class  of  myths  in  which  two  distinct  elements,  the  cosmical  and 
the  human  or  historical,  have  gradually  become  blended  into 
one.  It  seems  necessary,  therefore,  to  separate  these  two 
elements  in  order  to  arrive  at  an  understanding  of  the  myth. 
The  historical  or  human  element  in  it,  I  believe,  is  represented 
by  those  legends  which  refer  to  the  wonderful  cures  effected  by 
the  Aswins,  and  to  their  performances  of  a  kindred  sort ;  the  cos- 
mical element  is  that  relating  to  their  luminous  nature.  The 
link  which  connects  both  seems  to  be  the  mysteriousness  of  the 
nature  and  effects  of  the  phenomena  of  light  and  of  the  healing 
art  at  a  remote  antiquity.  That  there  might  have  been  some 
horsemen  or  warriors  of  great  renown,  who  inspired  their  con- 
temporaries with  awe  by  their  wonderful  deeds,  and  more 
especially  by  their  medical  skill,  appears  to  have  been  also  the 
o])inion  of  some  old  commentators  mentioned  by  Yaska  [in  the 
Kirukta],  for  some  *  legendary  writers,'  he  says,  took  them  for 


ASWINS—A  THARVANGIRASAS.  31 

<  two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acts,'  and  this  view  seems  like- 
wise borne  out  by  the  legend  in  which  it  is  narrated  that  the 
gods  refused  the  Aswins  admittance  to  a  sacrifice  on  the  ground 
that  they  had  been  on  too  familiar  terms  with  men.  It  would 
appear,  then,  that  these  Aswins,  like  the  i^ibhus,  were  originally 
renowned  mortals,  who,  in  the  course  of  time,  were  translated 
into  the  companionship  of  the  gods.  .  .  . 

"  The  luminous  character  of  the  Aswins  can  scarcely  be  matter 
of  doubt,  for  the  view  of  some  commentators,  recorded  by  Yaska, 
according  to  which  they  are  identified  with  '  heaven  and  earth,' 
appears  not  to  be  countenanced  by  any  of  the  passages  known 
to  us.  Their  very  name,  it  would  seem,  settles  this  point,  since 
Aswa,  the  horse,  literally  '  the  pervader,'  is  always  the  symbol  of 
the  luminous  deities,  especially  of  the  sun.   .  .  . 

"  It  seems  to  be  the  opinion  of  Yaska  that  the  Aswins  repre- 
sent the  transition  from  darkness  to  light,  when  the  intermin- 
gling of  both  produces  that  inseparable  duality  expressed  by  the 
twin  nature  of  these  deities.  And  this  interpretation,  I  hold, 
is  the  best  that  can  be  given  of  the  character  of  the  cosmical 
Aswins.  It  agrees  with  the  epithets  by  which  they  are  invoked, 
and  with  the  relationship  in  which  they  are  placed.  They  are 
young,  yet  also  ancient,  beautiful,  bright,  swift,  &c.  ;  and  their 
negative  character,  the  result  of  the  alliance  of  light  with  dark- 
ness, is,  I  believe,  expressed  by  dasra,  the  destroyer,  and  also  by 
the  two  negatives  in  the  compound  ndsatya  (na  +  a-satya) ; 
though  their  positive  character  is  again  redeemed  by  the  ellipsis 
of  '  enemies,  or  diseases  '  to  dasra,  and  by  the  sense  of  ndsatya, 
not  untrue,  i.e.,  truthful" 

ATHAEVA,  ATHAEYAN.     The  fourth  Yeda.     See  Yeda. 

ATHAEYAN".  Name  of  a  priest  mentioned  in  the  Rig- 
veda,  where  he  is  represented  as  having  "  drawn  forth  "  fire  and 
to  have  "  offered  sacrifice  in  early  times."  He  is  mythologically 
represented  as  the  eldest  son  of  Brahma,  to  whom  that  god 
revealed  the  Brahma- vidy a  (knowledge  of  God),  as  a  Prajapati, 
and  as  the  inspired  author  of  the  fourth  Yeda.  At  a  later 
period  he  is  identified  with  Angiras.  His  descendants  are 
called  Atharvanas,  and  are  often  associated  with  the  Angirasas. 

ATHAEYANGIEASAS.  This  name  belongs  to  the  descen- 
dants of  Atharvan  and  Angiras,  or  to  the  Angirasas  alone, 
who  are  especially  connected  with  the  Atharva-veda,  and  these 


32  ATMA-BODHA—A  URVA. 

names  are  probably  given  to  the  hymns  of  that  Veda  to  confer 
on  them  greater  authority  and  holiness. 

ATMA-BODHA.  'Knowledge  of  the  sonl'  A  short  work 
attributed  to  /S'ankaracharya.  It  has  been  printed,  and  a 
ti-anslation  of  it  was  pubhshed  in  1812  by  Taylor.  There  is  a 
French  version  by  Neve  and  an  EngUsh  translation  by  Kearns 
in  the  Indian  Antiquary,  vol.  v. 

ATMAN",  ATMA.  The  souL  The  principle  of  life.  The 
supreme  souL 

ATREYA.  A  patronymic  from  Atri.  A  son  or  descendant 
of  Atri ;  a  people  so  called. 

ATRI.  'An  eater.'  A  itishi,  and  author  of  many  Vedic 
hpnns.  "  A  Maharshi  or  great  saint,  who  in  the  Vedas  occurs 
especially  in  hymns  composed  for  the  praise  of  Agni,  Indra,  the 
Aswins,  and  the  Yi.swa-devas.  In  the  epic  period  he  is  con- 
sidered as  one  of  the  ten  Prajapatis  or  lords  of  creation  engen- 
dered by  Manu  for  the  purpose  of  creating  the  universe ;  at  a 
later  period  he  appears  as  a  mind-born  son  of  Brahma,  and  as 
one  of  the  seven  jR/shis  who  preside  over  the  reign  of  Sw^ayam- 
bhuva,  the  first  Manu,  or,  according  to  others,  of  Swarochisha,  the 
second,  or  of  Vaivaswata,  the  seventh.  He  married  Anasuya, 
daughter  of  Daksha,  and  their  son  was  Durvasas." — Goldstilcher. 
In  the  RamayaTia  an  account  is  given  of  the  visit  paid  by  Rama 
and  Sita  to  Atri  and  Anasuya  in  their  hermitage  south  of  Chitra- 
ku^a.  In  the  Purawas  he  was  also  father  of  Soma,  the  moon, 
and  the  ascetic  Dattatreya  by  his  wife  Anasuya.  As  a  Ri^hi 
he  is  one  of  the  stars  of  the  Great  Bear. 

AURVA.  A  jRishi,  son  of  Urva  and  grandson  of  Bhrigu. 
He  is  described  in  the  Maha-bharata  as  son  of  the  sage  Chyavana 
by  his  wife  Arushi.  From  his  race  he  is  called  Bhargava.  The 
Maha-bharata  relates  that  a  king  named  Knta-virya  was  very 
liberal  to  his  2:)riests  of  the  race  of  Bh?'igu,  and  that  they  grew 
rich  upon  his  munificence.  After  his  death,  his  descendants, 
who  had  fallen  into  poverty,  begged  help  from  the  Bh?-igus,  and 
met  with  no  liberal  response.  Some  of  them  buried  their  money, 
and  when  this  was  discovered  the  imjDoverished  Kshatriyas  were 
so  exasperated  that  they  slew  all  the  Bhrigus  down  to  the  chil- 
dren in  the  womb.  One  w^oman  concealed  her  unborn  child  in 
her  thigh,  and  the  Kshatriyas  being  informed  of  this,  sought  the 
child  to  kill  it,  but  the  child  "  issued  forth  from  its  mother's 


A  UR  VA—A  VA  TAR  A.  33 

tliigli  M'itli  lustre  and  blinded  the  persecutors.  From  being 
produced  from  the  thigh  (uru),  the  child  received  the  name  of 
Aurva.  The  sage's  austerities  alarmed  both  gods  and  men, 
and  he  for  a  long  time  refused  to  mitigate  his  wrath  against  the 
Kshatriyas,  but  at  the  persuasion  of  the  PitHs,  he  cast  the  fire 
of  his  anger  into  the  sea,  where  it  became  a  being  with  the  face 
of  a  horse  called  Haya-siras.  While  he  was  living  in  the  forest  he 
prevented  the  wife  of  King  Bahu  from  burning  herself  with  her 
husband's  corpse.  Thus  he  saved  the  life  of  her  son,  with  Avhom 
she  had  been  pregnant  seven  years,  "\^^len  the  child  was  born 
he  was  called  Sagara  (ocean) ;  Aurva  was  his  preceptor,  and 
bestowed  on  him  the  Agneyastra,  or  fiery  weapon  with  wdiich  he 
conquered  the  barbarians  who  invaded  his  country.  Aurva  had 
a  son  named  i^ichlka,  who  was  father  of  Jamadagni.  The 
Hari-vansa  gives  another  version  of  the  legend  about  the  off- 
spring of  Aurva.  The  sage  was  urged  by  his  friends  to  beget 
children.  He  consented,  but  he  foretold  that  his  progeny  would 
live  by  the  destruction  of  others.  Then  he  j)roduced  from  his 
thigh  a  devouring  fire,  Avhich  cried  out  with  a  loud  voice,  "  I 
am  hungry ;  let  me  consume  the  world. "  The  various  regions 
were  soon  in  flames,  when  Brahma  interfered  to  save  his 
creation,  and  promised  the  son  of  Aurva  a  suitable  abode  and 
maintenance.  The  abode  Avas  to  be  at  Bac?ava-mukha,  the  mouth 
of  the  ocean ;  for  Brahma  was  born  and  rests  in  the  ocean,  and 
he  and  the  newly  produced  fire  were  to  consume  the  w^orld 
together  at  the  end  of  each  age,  and  at  the  end  of  time  to  devour 
all  things  with  the  gods,  Asuras,  and  Rakshasas.  The  name 
Aurva  thus  signifies,  shortly,  the  submarine  fire.  It  is  also 
called  BafZavanala  and  Samvarttaka.  It  is  represented  as  a 
flame  with  a  horse's  head,  and  is  also  called  Kaka-dliwaja,  from 
carrying  a  banner  on  which  there  is  a  crow. 

AU^'ANA,  or  AU/S'AXASA  PURAiYA.     See  Purawa. 

AUTTAMI     The  third  Manu.     See  Manu. 

AYANTl,  AYANTIKA.  A  name  of  Ujjayinl,  one  of  the 
seven  sacred  cities. 

AYATARA.  'A  descent.'  The  incarnation  of  a  deity,  espe- 
cially of  Yish??u.  The  first  indication,  not  of  an  Avatara,  but 
of  what  subsequently  develojDcd  into  an  Avatara,  is  found  in 
the  itig-veda  in  the  "three  steps"  of  "Yishnu,  the  unconquer- 
able preserver,"  who  "strode   over  this  (universe),"  and    "in 

C 


34  AVATARA. 

three  places  planted  his  step."  The  early  commentators  under- 
stood the  "  three  places  "  to  be  the  earth,  the  atmosphere,  and  the 
sky ;  that  in  the  earth  Vish7iu  was  fire,  in  the  air  lightning, 
and  in  the  sky  the  solar  hght.  One  commentator,  Aurwavabha, 
whose  name  deserves  mention,  took  a  more  philosophical  view 
of  the  matter,  and  interpreted  "  the  three  steps  "  as  being  "  the 
different  positions  of  the  sun  at  his  rising,  culmination,  and 
setting."  Sayawa,  the  great  commentator,  who  lived  in  days 
when  the  god  Yishwu  had  obtained  pre-eminence,  understood 
"the  three  steps"  to  be  "the  three  steps"  taken  by  that 
god  in  his  incarnation  of  Yamana  the  dwarf,  to  be  presently 
noticed.  Another  reference  to  "  three  strides "  and  to  a  sort 
of  Avatara  is  made  in  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  where  it  is 
said,  "  Indra,  assuming  the  form  of  a  she-jackal,  stepped 
all  round  the  earth  in  three  (strides).  Thus  the  gods  ob- 
tained it." 

Boar  Incarnation. — In  the  Taittiriya  Sanliita  and  Erahma??a, 
and  also  in  the  /S'atapatha  Brahma?za,  the  creator  Prajiipati, 
afterwards  known  as  Brahma,  took  the  form  of  a  boar  for  the 
purpose  of  raising  the  earth  out  of  the  boundless  waters.  The 
Sanhita  says,  "  This  universe  was  formerly  waters,  fluid.  On  it 
Prajapati,  becoming  wind,  moved.  He  saw  this  (earth).  Be- 
coming a  boar,  he  took  her  up.  Becoming  Yiswakarman,  he 
wiped  (the  moisture  from)  her.  She  extended.  She  became 
the  extended  one  (Prithvl).  Prom  this  the  earth  derives  her 
designation  as  'the  extended  one.' "  The  Brahma?za  is  in  accord 
as  to  the  illimitable  waters,  and  adds,  "Prajapati  practised 
arduous  devotion  (saying).  How  shall  this  universe  be  (de- 
veloped) ?  He  beheld  a  lotus  leaf  standing.  He  thought, 
There  is  somewhat  on  Avhich  this  (lotus  leaf)  rests.  He,  as  a 
boar — having  assumed  that  form — plunged  beneath  towards  it. 
He  found  the  earth  down  below.  Breaking  off  (a  portion  of 
her),  he  rose  to  the  surface.  He  then  extended  it  on  tlie  lotus 
leaf.  Inasmuch  as  he  extended  it,  that  is  the  extension  of  tlic 
extended  one  (the  earth).  This  became  (ahhaf).  From  tliis 
the  earth  derives  its  name  of  Bhumi."  Further,  in  the  Tait- 
tiriya Arawyaka  it  is  said  that  the  eartli  was  "  raised  by  a  black 
boar  with  a  hundred  arms."  The  /S'atapatha  Brahmawa  states, 
"  She  (tlie  earth)  was  only  so  large,  of  the  size  of  a  sjian.  A 
boar  called  Eniusha   raised   her  up.     Her  lord,    Prajapati,    in 


AVATAR  A.  35 

consequence  prospers  him  with  this  pair  and  makes  him  com- 
plete." In  the  Rfimaya/za  also  it  is  stated  that  Brahma  "be- 
hecanie  a  boar  and  raised  up  the  earth." 

Kurma  or  Tortoise. — In  the  /Sktapatha  Brahmawa  it  is  said 
that  "  Prajapati,  having  assumed  the  form  of  a  tortoise  (kurma), 
created  offspring.  That  which  he  created  he  made  (akarot) ; 
hence  the  word  Ktirma." 

Fish  Incarnation. — The  earliest  mention  of  the  fish  Avatiira 
occurs  in  the  /S'atapatha  Brahma?ia,  in  connection  with  the 
Hindu  legend  of  the  deluge.  Manu  found,  in  the  water  which 
was  brought  to  him  for  his  ablutions,  a  small  fish,  which  sjDoke 
to  him  and  said,  "  I  will  save  thee  "  from  a  flood  which  shall 
sweep  away  all  creatures.  This  fish  grew  to  a  large  size,  and 
had  to  be  consigned  to  the  ocean,  when  he  directed  Manu  to 
construct  a  ship  and  to  resort  to  him  when  the  flood  should 
rise.  The  deluge  came,  and  Manu  embarked  in  the  ship.  The 
fish  then  swam  to  Manu,  who  fastened  the  vessel  to  the  fish's 
horn,  and  was  conducted  to  safety.  The  Maha-bharata  repeats 
this  story  with  some  variations. 

The  incarnations  of  the  boar,  the  tortoise,  and  the  fish  are 
thus  in  the  earlier  writings  represented  as  manifestations  of 
Prajapati  or  Brahma.  The  "  three  stej)s  "  which  form  the  germ 
of  the  dwarf  incarnation  are  ascribed  to  Vishmi,  but  even  these 
appear  to  be  of  an  astronomical  or  mythical  character  rather 
than  glorifications  of  a  particular  deity.  In  the  ]\Iaha-bharata 
Vishmi  has  become  the  most  prominent  of  the  gods,  and  some 
of  his  incarnations  are  more  or  less  distinctly  noticed ;  but  it  is 
in  the  Pura?ias  that  they  receive  their  full  development.  Ac- 
cording to  the  generally  received  account,  the  incarnations  of 
Vish?iu  are  ten  in  number,  each  of  them  being  assumed  by 
Vislmu,  the  great  preserving  j)ower,  to  save  the  world  from 
some  great  danger  or  trouble. 

I.  Matsya.  'The  fish.'  This  is  an  apjoropriation  toYislmu 
of  the  ancient  legend  of  the  fish  and  the  deluge,  as  related  in 
the  A^atapatha  Brahma?^a,  and  quoted  above.  The  details  of  this 
Avatara  vary  slightly  in  different  Puranas.  The  object  of  the 
incarnation  was  to  save  Yaivaswata,  the  seventh  Manu,  and 
l^rogenitor  of  the  human  race,  from  destruction  by  a  deluge. 
A  small  fish  came  into  the  hands  of  Manu  and  besoudit  his 
protection.     He  carefully  guarded  it,  and  it  grew  rapidly  until 


2,6  AVATAR  A. 

nothing  but  the  ocean  could  contain  it.  Manu  tlien  recognised 
its  divinity,  and  worshipped  the  deity  Yish?Ri  thus  incarnate. 
The  god  apprised  Manu  of  the  approaching  cataclysm,  and  bade 
him  prepare  for  it.  Wlien  it  came,  Manu  embarked  in  a  ship 
with  the  it/shis,  and  with  the  seeds  of  all  existing  things. 
Yishmi  then  appeared  as  the  fish  with  a  most  stupendous  horn. 
The  ship  M^as  bound  to  this  horn  with  the  great  serpent  as  with 
a  rope,  and  was  secured  in  safety  until  the  waters  had  subsided. 
The  Bhagavata  Pura?ia  introduces  a  new  feature.  In  one  of 
the  nights  of  Bralima,  and  during  his  repose,  the  earth  and  the 
other  worlds  were  submerged  in  the  ocean.  Then  the  demon 
Haya-griva  drew  near,  and  carried  off  the  Yeda  which  had 
issued  from  Brahma's  mouth.  To  recover  the  Yeda  thus  lost, 
Yish^m  assumed  the  form  of  a  fish,  and  saved  Manu  as  above 
related.  But  this  Purawa  adds,  that  the  fish  instructed  Manu 
and  the  ii'/shis  in  "  the  true  doctrine  of  the  soul  of  the  eternal 
Brahma ; "  and,  when  Brahma  awoke  at  the  end  of  this  dis- 
solution of  the  universe,  Yish?iu  slew  Haya-griva  and  restored 
the  Yeda  to  Brahma. 

2.  Ivurma.    '  The  tortoise.'    The  germ  of  this  Avatara  is  found 
in  the  >S'atapatha  Brahma?ia,  as  above  noticed.     In  its  later  and 
developed  form,  Yish?zu  appeared  in  the  form  of  a  tortoise  in 
the  Satya-yuga,   or  first  age,  to  recover  some  things  of  value 
which  had  been  lost  in  the  deluge.      In  the  form  of  a  tortoise 
he  placed  himself  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea  of  milk,  and  made 
his  back  the  base  or  pivot  of  the  mountain  Mandara.     The  gods 
and  demons  twisted  the  great  serpent  Yasuki  round  the  moun- 
tain, and,  dividing  into  two  parties,  each  took  an  end  of  the 
snake  as  a  rope,  and  thus  churned  the  sea  until  they  recovered 
the  desired  objects.     These  were — (i.)  Amrita,   the   water  of 
life;  (2.)  Dhanwantari,  the  physician  of  the  gods  and  bearer  of 
the    cup    of   Am?-ita ;    (3.)  Lakshmi,   goddess    of   fortune   and 
beaut}'',  and   consort  of  Yish?ui ;    (4.)  Sura,  goddess  of  wine; 
(5.)  Chandra,  the  moon ;  (6.)  Rambha,  a  nymph,  and  pattern 
of  a  lovely  and  amiable  woman ;  (7.)  Uchchai/i-sravas,  a  won- 
derful and  model  horse;   (8.)  Kaustubha,  a  celebrated  jewel ; 
(9.)  Pririjata,  a  celestial  tree;  (10.)  Surablii,  the  cow  of  plenty j 
(it.)  Airavata,  a  wonderful  model  elephant;   (12.)  /S'ankha,  a 
shell,  the  conch  of  victory;  (13.)  Dhanus,  a  famous  bow;  and 
(14.)  Yisha,  poison. 


AVATAR  A,  37 

3.  Yaralia.  'The  boar.'  The  old  legend  of  the  Lrahmawas 
concerning  the  boar  which  raised  the  earth  from  the  waters  has 
been  appropriated  to  Vish?m.  A  demon  named  Hira?^yaksha 
had  drao-o'ed  the  earth  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea.  To  recover  it 
Vish^iu  assnmed  the  form  of  a  boar,  and  after  a  contest  of  a 
thousand  years  he  slew  the  demon  and  raised  up  the  earth. 

4.  Nara-sinha,  or  ]Sr7>sinha,  '  The  man-lion. '  Yishnu  assumed 
this  form  to  deliver  the  world  from  the  tyranny  of  IIira?zya- 
ka5ij)u,  a  demon  who,  by  the  favour  of  Brahma,  had  become 
invuhierable,  and  was  secure  from  gods,  men,  and  animals.  This 
demon's  son,  named  Prahlada,  worshipped  Vishmi,  which  so 
incensed  his  father  that  he  tried  to  kill  him,  but  his  efforts  were 
all  in  Vain.  Contending  with  his  son  as  to  the  omnipotence  and 
omnipresence  of  Yishwu,  Hirawya-kasipu  demanded  to  know  if 
Vishrm  was  present  in  a  stone  pillar  of  the  hall,  and  struck 
it  violently.  To  avenge  Prahlada,  and  to  vindicate  his  own 
offended  majesty,  Yisliwu  came  forth  from  the  pillar  as  the 
jSTara-sinha,  half-man  and  half-lion,  and  tore  the  arrogant  Daitya 
king  to  pieces. 

These  four  incarnations  are  supposed  to  have  appeared  in  the 
Sat^^a-yuga,  or  first  age  of  the  world. 

5.  Vamana.  '  The  dwarf.'  The  origin  of  this  incarnation  is 
"  the  three  strides  of  Yishwu,"  spoken  of  in  the  itfg- veda,  as 
before  explained.  In  the  Treta-yuga,  or  second  age,  the  Daitya 
king  Eali  had,  by  his  devotions  and  austerities,  acquired  the  domi- 
nion of  the  three  worlds,  and  the  gods  were  shorn  of  their  power 
and  dignity.  To  remedy  this,  Yish?zu  was  born  as  a  diminutive 
son  of  Ivasyapa  and  Aditi.  The  dwarf  appeared  before  Bali, 
and  begged  of  him  as  much  land  as  he  could  step  over  in  three 
paces.  The  generous  monarch  complied  with  the  request. 
Yishmi  took  two  strides  over  heaven  and  earth ;  but  respecting 
the  virtues  of  Bali,  he  then  stopped,  leaving  the  dominion  of 
Patala,  or  the  infernal  regions,  to  Bali. 

The  first  five  incarnations  are  thus  purely  mythological ;  in 
the  next  three  we  have  the  heroic  element,  and  in  the  ninth 
the  relio;ious. 

6.  Para5u-rama.  '  Kama  with  the  axe. '  Born  in  the  Treta, 
or  second  age,  as  son  of  the  Brahman  Jamadagni,  to  deliver  the 
Brahmans  from  the  arrogant  dominion  of  the  Kshatriyas.  See 
Parasu-Eama, 


38  A  VA  TARA—A  YODHYA. 

7.  Eama  or  Eama-cliandra.  '  The  moon-like  or  gentle  Rama/ 
the  hero  of  the  Eamayawa.  He  was  the  son  of  Dasaratha,  king 
of  Ayodliya,  of  the  Solar  race,  and  was  born  in  the  Treta-yiiga, 
or  second  age,  for  the  purpose  of  destroying  the  demon  Rava?^a. 

8.  Iv?'zsh7za.  '  The  black  or  dark  coloured.'  This  is  the  most 
poj^ular  of  all  the  later  deities,  and  has  obtained  such  pre- 
eminence, that  his  votaries  look  upon  him  not  simply  as  an 
incarnation,  but  as  a  perfect  manifestation  of  Yishwu.  When 
Krishna  is  thus  exalted  to  the  full  godhead,  his  elder  brother, 
Bala-rama  takes  his  place  as  the  eighth  Avatara.  See  ~Krh\m^ 
and  Bala-rama. 

9.  Buddha.  The  great  success  of  Buddha  as  a  religious 
teacher  seems  to  have  induced  the  Brahmans  to  adopt  him  as 
their  ovm,  rather  than  to  recognise  him  as  an  adversary.  So 
Yishwu  is  said  to  have  aj)peared  as  Buddha  to  encourage  demons 
and  wicked  men  to  despise  the  Vedas,  reject  caste,  and  deny  the 
existence  of  the  gods,  and  thus  to  effect  their  o^vn  destruction. 

10.  Ivalki  or  Kalkin.  '  The  white  hors«.'  This  incarnation 
of  VishTiu  is  to  appear  at  the  end  of  the  Xali  or  Iron  Age, 
seated  on  a  white  horse,  with  a  drawn  sword  blazing  like  a 
comet,  for  the  final  destruction  of  the  wicked,  the  renovation  of 
creation,  and  the  restoration  of  purity. 

The  above  are  the  usually  recognised  Avataras,  but  the  number 
is  sometimes  extended,  and  the  Bhagavata  Pura?ia,  which  is  the 
most  fervid  of  all  the  Pura?zas  in  its  glorification  of  Vishwu, 
enumerates  twenty-two  incarnations: — (i.)  Purusha,  the  male, 
the  progenitor;  (2.)  Yaralia,  the  boar;  (3.)  Narada,  the  great 
sage;  (4.)  Isara  and  Narayawa  (q.v.) ;  (5.)  Kapila,  the  great 
sage;  (6.)  Dattatreya,  a  sage;  (7.)  Yajna,  sacrifice;  (8.)  jR/shabha, 
a  righteous  king,  father  of  Bharata ;  (9.)  Prithu,  a  king;  (10.) 
Matsya,  the  fish;  (11.)  Kiirma,  the  tortoise;  (12  and  13.) 
Dhanwantari,  the  physician  of  the  gods;  (14.)  Xara-sinha,  the 
man-lion;  (15.)  Vamana,  the  dwarf;  (16.)  Parasu-rilma ;  (17.) 
Veda-Vyasa;  (18.)  Rama;  (19.)  Bala-rama;  (20.)  Kr/slma;  (21.) 
Buddha;  (22.)  Kalki.  But  after  this  it  adds — "The  incarna- 
tions of  Yishmi  are  innumerable,  like  the  rivulets  flowing  from 
an  inexhaustible  lake,  itishis,  INIanus,  gods,  sons  of  Manus, 
PrajTipatis,  are  all  portions  of  him." 

AVATARAYA.     An  abode  of  the  Rakshasas. 

AYODHYA.     Tlic  modern  Oude.    The  capital  of  Ikshwrdai, 


A  YUR-  VEDA—BAHU. 


39 


the  founder  of  the  Solar  race,  and  afterwards  the  capital  of 
Rama.  It  is  one  of  the  seven  sacred  cities.  The  exact  site  has 
not  been  discovered, 

AYUR-YEDA.  '  The  Veda  of  life.'  A  work  on  medicine, 
attributed  to  Dhanwantari,  and  sometimes  regarded  as  a  supple- 
ment to  the  Atharva-veda. 

AYUS.  The  first-born  son  of  Purfiravas  and  Urvasi,  and  the 
father  of  Nahusha,  Kshattra-vnddha,  Rambha,  Raji,  and  Anenas. 

BABHRU-YAHANA.  Son  of  Arjuna  by  his  wife  Chitran- 
gada.  He  was  adopted  as  the  son  of  his  maternal  grandfather, 
and  reigned  at  Mampura  as  his  successor.  He  dwelt  there  in  a 
palace  of  great  splendour,  surrounded  with  wealth  and  signs  of 
power.  When  Arjuna  went  to  Mampura  with  the  horse  intended 
for  the  Aswa-medha,  there  was  a  quarrel  between  Arjuna  and 
King  Babhrii-vahana,  and  the  latter  killed  his  father  with  an 
arrow.  Repenting  of  his  deed,  he  determined  to  kill  himself, 
but  he  obtained  from  his  step-mother,  the  Naga  princess  Uliipi, 
a  gem  which  restored  Arjuna  to  life.  He  returned  with  his 
father  to  Hastinapura.  The  description  of  this  combat  has  been 
translated  from  the  Maha-bharata  by  Troyer  in  his  Rdja 
Taranginl,  tome  i.  p.  578. 

BADARAYAiYi.  A  name  of  Yeda  Yyasa,  especially  used 
for  him  as  the  reputed  author  of  the  Yedanta  philosophy.  He 
was  the  author  of  the  Brahma  Sutras,  published  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Jndica. 

BADARI,  BADARIKA^AMA.  A  place  sacred  to  Yishmi, 
near  the  Ganges  in  the  Himalayas,  particularly  in  Yish?iu's  dual 
form  of  ]S^ara-Naraya?^a.  Thus,  in  the  Maha-bharata,  >5'iva, 
addressing  Arjuna,  says,  "  Thou  w^ast  ISTara  in  a  former  body, 
and,  with  Narayawa  for  thy  companion,  didst  perform  dreadful 
austerity  at  Badari  for  many  myriads  of  years."  It  is  now 
known  as  Badari-natha,  though  this  is  properly  a  title  of  Yish?iu 
as  lord  of  Badari. 

BAD  AY  A.  'A  mare,  the  submarine  fire.'  In  mythology  it 
is  a  flame  with  the  head  of  a  horse,  called  also  Haya-siras, 
*  horse-head.'     See  Auiysl. 

BAHIKAS.  People  of  the  Panjab,  so  called  in  Pamni  and 
the  Maha-bharata.  They  are  spoken  of  as  being  impure  and  out 
of  the  law. 

BAHU,  BAHUKA.    A  king  of  the  Solar  race,  wdio  was  van- 


40  B  AHUK A— B  ALA-RAMA. 

i|uished  and  driven  out  of  his  country  by  tlie  tribes  of  Haihaj-as 
and  Talajanghas.      He  was  father  of  Sagara. 

BAHUIvA.     The  name  of  Xala  when  he  was  transformed 
into  a  dwarf. 

BAHULAS.     The  K?-/ttikas  or  Pleiades. 

BAHYi?/CHA.     A  priest  or  theologian  of  the  it%-veda. 

BALA-BHADRA.     See  Bala-rama. 

BALA-GOPALA.     The  boy  l\.rk\\n^. 

BALA-RA]\IA.  (Bala-bhadra  and  Bala-deva  are  other  forms 
of  this  name.)  The  elder  brother  of  Ivr/shwa.  AA^lien  K?'ishwa 
is  regarded  as  a  full  manifestation  of  Yishmi,  Bala-rama  is 
recognised  as  the  seventh  Avatara  or  incarnation  in  his  place. 
According  to  this  view,  Avhich  is  the  favourite  one  of  the 
Vaishwavas,  K?'ish7ia  is  a  full  divinity  and  Bala-rama  an  incar- 
nation ;  but  the  story  of  their  birth,  as  told  in  the  Maha-bharata, 
places  them  more  upon  an  equality.  It  says  that  Vish?iu  took 
two  hairs,  a  white  and  a  black  one,  and  that  these  became  Bala- 
rama  and  K?'ish?ia,  the  children  of  Devaki.  Bala-rama  was  of 
fair  complexion,  K?7'sh?^a  was  very  dark.  As  soon  as  Bala-rama 
was  born,  he  was  carried  away  to  Gokula  to  preserve  his  life 
from  the  tyrant  Kansa,  and  he  was  there  nurtured  by  Nan  da  as 
a  child  of  Rohinl.  He  and  Krish^za  grew  up  together,  and  he 
took  part  in  many  of  K?-ish?za's  boyish  freaks  and  adventures. 
His  earliest  exploit  was  the  killing  of  the  great  Asura  Dhenuka, 
who  had  the  form  of  an  ass.  This  demon  attacked  him,  but 
Bala-rama  seized  his  assailant,  whirled  him  round  by  his  legs 
till  he  was  dead,  and  cast  his  carcase  into  a  tree.  Another  Asura 
attempted  to  carry  off  Bala-rama  on  his  shoulders,  but  the  boy 
beat  out  the  demon's  brains  with  his  fists.  AVhen  K?'fsli?ia  went 
to  Mathura,  Bala-rama  accompanied  him,  and  manfully  supported 
him  till  Kan.m  was  killed.  Once,  when  Bala-rama  was  intoxicated, 
he  called  upon  tlie  Yamuna  river  to  come  to  him,  that  he  might 
bathe ;  but  his  command  not  being  heeded,  he  plunged  his 
ploughshare  into  the  river,  and  dragged  the  waters  whithersoever 
he  went,  until  they  were  obliged  to  assume  a  human  form  and 
beseech  his  forgiveness.  This  action  gained  for  liini  the  title 
Yamunfi-bhid  and  Kalindi-karsha?2a,  breaker  or  dragger  of  the 
Yamuna.  He  killed  Rukmin  in  a  gambling  brawl.  Y^'hen 
»9rimba,  son  of  K?7slma,  was  detained  as  a  prisoner  at  Hastinapur 
by  ]Jur-yodhana,   Bala-rama  demanded  his  release,  and,  being 


BALA-RAMA—BALHL  41 

refused,  lie  tlirust  his  plouglisliare  under  the  ramparts  of  the 
city,  and  drew  them  towards  him,  thus  compelling  the  Kaura- 
vas  to  give  up  their  prisoner.  Lastly,  he  killed  the  great  ape 
Dwivida,  who  had  stolen  his  weapons  and  derided  him. 

Such  are  some  of  the  chief  incidents  of  the  life  of  Bala-rama, 
as  related  in  the  Pura?^as,  and  as  popular  among  the  votaries  of 
Ivrish^ia.  In  the  Maha-bharata  he  has  more  of  a  human  cha- 
racter. He  taught  both  Dur-yodhana  and  Bhima  the  use  of  the 
mace.  Though  inclining  to  the  side  of  the  Paw^avas,  he  refused 
to  take  an  active  part  either  with  them  or  the  Kauravas.  He 
witnessed  the  combat  between  Dur-yodliana  and  Bhima,  and 
beheld  the  foul  blow  struck  by  the  latter,  which  made  him  so 
indignant  that  he  seized  his  weapons,  and  was  with  difficulty 
restrained  by  K?/sh?2-a  from  falling  upon  the  Pa?i(iavas.  He 
died  just  before  Kr/slw^a,  as  he  sat  under  a  banyan  tree  in  the 
outskirts  of  Dwaraka. 

Another  view  is  held  as  to  the  origin  of  Bala-rama.  Accord- 
ing to  this  he  was  an  incarnation  of  the  great  serpent  <S'esha,  and 
when  he  died  the  serpent  is  said  to  have  issued  from  his  mouth. 

The  "  wine-loving  "  Bala-rama  (Madhu-priya  or  Priya-madhu) 
was  as  much  addicted  to  wine  as  his  brother  K^isliTia  was 
devoted  to  the  fair  sex.  He  was  also  irascible  in  temper,  and 
sometimes  quarrelled  even  with  K?■^sh?^a  :  the  Pura?zas  represent 
them  as  having  a  serious  difference  about  the  Syamantaka  jewel. 
He  had  but  one  wife,  RevatI,  daughter  of  King  Raivata,  and 
was  faithful  to  her.  By  her  he  had  two  sons,  Msa/fha  and 
Ulmuka.  He  is  represented  as  of  fair  complexion,  and,  as  Nlla- 
vastra,  '  clad  in  a  dark-blue  vest.'  His  especial  weapons  are  a  club 
{khetaka  or  saunanda),  the  ploughshare  (halo),  and  the  pestle 
(musala),  from  which  he  is  called  Phala  and  Hala,  also  Hala- 
yudha,  '  plough-armed ; '  Hala-bh?'it,  '  plough-bearer ; '  Langali 
and  Sankarsha/ia,  '  ploughman  ; '  and  Musali,  '  pestle-holder. ' 
As  he  has  a  palm  for  a  banner,  he  is  called  Tala-dhwaja.  Other 
of  his  apjDellations  are  Gupta-chara,  '  who  goes  secretly ;'  Kam- 
pala and  Samvartaka. 

B  ALA-RAM  A  YAiV^A.  A  di-ama  by  Raja-5ekhara.  It  has  been 
printed. 

BALEYA.     A  descendant  of  Bali,  a  Daitya. 

BALHI.  A  northern  country,  Balkh.  Said  in  the  Maha- 
bharata  to  be  famous  for  its  horses,  as  Balkh  is  to  the  present  time. 


42  BALHIK AS— BARBARAS. 

BALHIKAS,  BAHLlKAS.  "Always  associated  Avith  the 
people  of  the  north,  west,  and  ultra-Indian  provinces,  and  usnally 
considered  to  represent  the  Bactrians  or  people  of  Balkh." — TFilson. 

BALL  A  good  and  virtuous  Daitya  king.  He  was  son  of 
Yirochana,  son  of  Prahlada,  son  of  HiraTzya-kasipu.  His  wife 
was  VindhyavalL  Through  his  devotion  and  penance  he  defeated 
Indra,  humbled  the  gods,  and  extended  his  authority  over  the  three 
worlds.  The  gods  appealed  to  Yishwu  for  protection,  and  he  be- 
came manifest  in  his  Dwarf  Avatara  for  the  purpose  of  restrain- 
ing Bah.  This  dwarf  craved  from  Bali  the  boon  of  three  steps 
of  ground,  and,  ha"vdng  obtained  it,  he  stepped  over  heaven  and 
earth  in  two  strides ;  but  then,  out  of  respect  to  Bali's  kindness 
and  his  grandson  Prahlada's  virtues,  he  stopped  short,  and  left  to 
him  Patala,  the  infernal  regions.  Bali  is  also  called  Maha-bali,  and 
his  capital  was  Maha-bali-pura.  The  germ  of  the  legend  of  the 
three  steps  is  found  in  the  itig-veda,  where  Yishmi  is  represented 
as  taking  three  steps  over  earth,  heaven,  and  the  lower  regions, 
typifying  perhaps  the  rising,  culmination,  and  setting  of  the 
sun. 

BALI,  BALIIST.  The  monkey  king  of  Kishkindhya,  who  was 
slain  by  Rama,  and  whose  kingdom  was  given  to  his  brother 
Su-griva,  the  friend  and  ally  of  Rama.  He  was  supposed  to  be 
the  son  of  Indra,  and  to  have  been  born  from  the  hair  (bdla)  of 
his  mother,  whence  his  name.  His  wife's  name  was  Tara,  and 
his  sons  Angada  and  Tara. 

BAiVA.  A  Daitya,  eldest  son  of  Bali,  who  had  a  thousand 
arms.  He  was  a  friend  of  Siva  and  enemy  of  Vishmi.  His 
daughter  tJsha  fell  in  love  with  Aniruddha,  the  grandson  of 
KnshTia,  and  had  him  conveyed  to  her  by  magic  art.  K?'/sh7ia, 
Bala-rama,  and  Pradyumna  went  to  the  rescue,  and  were  resisted 
by  Bawa,  who  was  assisted  by  Siva  and  Skanda,  god  of  war. 
S'lYB,  was  overpowered  by  Krishna  ;  Skanda  was  wounded ;  and 
the  many  arms  of  Bawa  were  cut  off  by  the  missile  weapons  of 
Kn'shwa.  iS'iva  then  interceded  for  the  life  of  Bawa,  and  K?"islma 
granted  it.     He  is  called  also  Vairochi. 

BANGA.  Bengal,  but  not  in  the  modern  application.  In 
ancient  times  Banga  meant  the  districts  north  of  the  Bhagirathi 
— Jessore,  Krishwagar,  &c.     See  Anu. 

BARBARAS.  Name  of  a  people.  "  The  analogy  to  *  bar- 
barians '  is  not  in  sound  onlv,  but  in  all  the  authorities  these  are 


BARHISHADS—BHAGA  VAD-GITA.  43 

classed  with  borderers  and  foreigners  and  nations  not  Hindu." 
■ — JVilson. 

BAEHISHADS.  A  class  of  Pitrfs,  wlio,  wlien  alive,  kept 
np  the  household  flame,  and  presented  ofl'erings  with  fire.  Some 
authorities  identify  them  with  the  months.  Their  dwelling  is 
Vaibhraja-loka.     See  Pit?-2*s. 

BAUDHAYANA.  A  writer  on  Dharma-sastra  or  law.  He 
was  also  the  author  of  a  Siitra  work. 

BHADRA.     Wife  of  Utathya  (q.v.). 

BHADRACHARU.     A  son  of  K?'isliwa  and  RukminL 

BHADRA-KALl.  Name  of  a  goddess.  In  modern  times 
it  applies  to  Durga. 

BHADRA/S'WA.  i.  A  region  lying  to  the  east  of  Meru.  2. 
A  celebrated  horse,  son  of  UchchaiA-sravas. 

BHAGA.  A  deity  mentioned  in  the  Yedas,  but  of  very 
indistinct  personality  and  powers.  He  is  supposed  to  bestow 
wealth  and  to  preside  over  marriage,  and  he  is  classed  among 
the  Adityas  and  Yiswedevas. 

BHAGA-NETRA-GHNA  (or  -HAN).  '  Destroyer  of  the  eyes 
of  Bhaga.'     An  appellation  of  ^S'iva. 

BHAGAYAD-GiTA.  'The  song  of  the  Divine  One.'  A 
celebrated  episode  of  the  Maha-bharata,  in  the  form  of  a  metrical 
dialogue,  in  which  the  divine  Kr/shwa  is  the  chief  speaker,  and 
expounds  to  Arjuna  his  philosophical  doctrines.  The  author  of 
the  work  is  unknown,  but  he  "  was  probably  a  Brahman,  and 
nominally  a  Yaishwava,  but  really  a  philosopher  and  thinker, 
whose  mind  was  cast  in  a  broad  mould."  This  poem  has  been 
interpolated  in  the  Maha-bharata,  for  it  is  of  much  later  date 
than  the  body  of  that  epic ;  it  is  later  also  than  the  six  Dar^awas 
or  philosophical  schools,  for  it  has  received  insjjiration  from 
them  all,  especially  from  the  Sankhya,  Yoga,  and  Yedanta.  The 
second  or  third  century  a.d.  has  been  pro]30sed  as  the  probable 
time  of  its  appearance.  Krishwa,  as  a  god,  is  a  manifestation  of 
Yish?iu ;  but  in  this  song,  and  in  other  places,  he  is  held  to 
be  the  supreme  being.  As  man,  he  was  related  to  both  the 
Pa?z<:?avas  and  the  Kauravas,  and  in  the  great  war  between  these 
two  families  he  refused  to  take  up  arms  on  either  side.  But  he 
consented  to  act  as  the  Paw^ava  Arjuna's  charioteer.  AVlien 
the  opposing  hosts  were  drawn  up  in  array  against  each  other, 
Arjuna,  touched  with  compunction  for  the  approaching  slaughter 


44       BHAGAVAD-GIIA—BHAGAVATA  PUR  ANA. 

of  kindred  and  friends,  appeals  to  KWsliTia  for  guidance.  This 
gives  the  occasion  for  the  philosophical  teaching.  "  The  poem 
is  divided  into  three  sections,  each  containing  six  chapters,  the 
philosophical  teaching  in  each  being  somewhat  distinct,"  bnt 
"undoubtedly  the  main  design  of  the  poem,  the  sentiments 
expressed  in  which  have  exerted  a  powerful  influence  throughout 
India  for  the  last  1600  j^ears,  is  to  inculcate  the  doctrine  of 
Bhakti  (faith),  and  to  exalt  the  duties  of  caste  above  all  other 
obligations,  including  those  of  friendship  and  kindred."  So 
Arjuna  is  told  to  do  his  duty  as  a  soldier  Avitliout  heeding  the 
slaughter  of  friends.  "  In  the  second  division  of  the  poem  the 
Pantheistic  doctrines  of  the  Yedanta  are  more  directly  inculcated 
than  in  the  other  sections.  Iv?"^sh7za  here,  in  the  plainest  lan- 
guage, claims  adoration  as  one  with  the  great  universal  spirit 
pervading  and  constituting  the  universe."  The  language  of  this 
poem  is  exceedingly  beautiful,  and  its  tone  and  sentiment  of  a 
very  lofty  character,  so  that  they  have  a  striking  effect  even  in 
the  prose  translation.  It  was  one  of  the  earliest  Sanskrit  works 
translated  into  English  by  Wilkins ;  but  a  much  more  perfect 
translation,  with  an  excellent  introduction,  has  since  been  pub- 
lished by  Mr.  J.  Cockburn  Thompson,  from  which  much  of  the 
above  has  been  borrowed.  There  are  several  other  translations 
in  French,  German,  &c. 

BHAGAYATA  PURAYA  The  Pura?ia  "in  which  ample 
details  of  duty  are  described,  and  which  opens  with  (an  extract 
from)  the  Gayatri ;  that  in  which  the  death  of  the  Asura  V?-itra 
is  told,  and  in  which  the  mortals  and  immortals  of  the  Saraswata 
Kalpa,  with  the  events  that  then  happened  to  them  in  the 
world,  are  related,  tliat  is  celebrated  as  tlie  Bhagavata,  and 
consists  of  18,000  verses."  Such  is  the  Hindu  description  of 
this  work.  "  The  Bhagavata,"  says  Wilson,  "  is  a  work  of  great 
celebrity  in  India,  and  exercises  a  more  direct  and  powerful 
influence  upon  the  opinions  and  feelings  of  the  people  than 
perhaps  any  other  of  the  Purawas.  It  is  placed  fiftli  in  all  the 
lists,  but  the  Padma  ranks  it  as  the  eighteenth,  as  the  extracted 
substance  of  all  the  rest.  According  to  the  usual  specification, 
it  consists  of  18,000  slokas,  distributed  amongst  332  chapters, 
divided  into  twelve  skandlias  or  books.  It  is  named  Bliiigavata 
from  its  being  dedicated  to  the  glorification  of  Bhagavata  or 
Yislmu."      The  most  popular  and   cliaractcristic  part   of    this 


BHAGIRA  THI—BHARADWAJA.  45 

PuraTza  is  tlie  tentli  book,  which  narrates  in  detail  the  history 
of  IvrishTza,  and  has  been  translated  into  perhaps  all  the  ver- 
nacnlar  languages  of  India.  Colebrooke  concurs  in  the  opinion 
of  many  learned  Hindus  that  this  Pura?ia  is  the  composition  of 
the  grammarian  Vopadeva,  who  lived  about  six  or  seven  cen- 
turies ago  at  the  court  of  Hemadri,  Kaja  of  Deva-giri  (Deogurh 
or  Daulatabad),  and  "Wilson  sees  no  reason  for  calling  in 
question  the  tradition  which  assigns  the  work  to  this  writer. 
This  Purawa  has  been  translated  into  French  by  Burnouf,  and 
has  been  published  with  the  text  in  three  volumes  folio,  and 
in  other  forms. 

BHAGlEATHI.  The  Ganges.  The  name  is  derived  from 
Bhagiratha,  a  descendant  of  Sagara,  whose  austerities  induced 
iS'iva  to  allow  the  sacred  river  to  descend  to  the  earth  for  the" 
purpose  of  bathing  the  ashes  of  Sagara's  sons,  who  had  been 
consumed  by  the  wrath  of  the  sage  Kapila.  Bhagiratha  named 
the  river  Sagara,  and  after  leading  it  over  the  earth  to  the  sea, 
he  conducted  it  to  Patala,  where  the  ashes  of  his  ancestors  were 
laved  with  its  waters  and  purified. 

BHAIRAYA  (mas.),  BH  AIR  A  VI  (fem.).  'The  terrible.' 
Names  of  /Siva  and  his  wife  Devi.  The  Bhairavas  are  eight  in- 
ferior forms  or  manifestations  of  iS'iva,  all  of  them  of  a  terrible 
character: — (i.)  Asitanga,  black  limbed;  (2.)  Sanhara,  destruc- 
tion; (3.)  Ruru,  a  dog;  (4.)  Kala,  black;  (5.)  Krodha,  anger; 
(6.)  Tamra-chii(ia,  red  crested ;  (7.)  Chandra-chiic^a,  moon  crested ; 
(8.)  j\Iaha,  great.  Other  names  are  met  with  as  variants  :  Ka- 
pala,  Rudra,  BhTsha?za,  Un-matta,  Kn-pati,  &c.  In  these  forms 
iS'iva  often  rides  upon  a  dog,  wherefore  he  is  called  /Swaiw^a, 
'whose  horse  is  a  clog.' 

BHAMATl.  A  gloss  on  >Sankara's  commentary  upon  the 
Brahma  Sutras  by  Yachaspati  Mi^ra.  It  is  in  course  of  publi- 
cation in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica. 

BHANUMATI  Daughter  of  BhSnu,  a  Yadava  chief,  who 
was  abducted  from  her  home  in  Dwaraka,  during  the  absence  of 
her  father,  by  the  demon  Nikumbha, 

BHARADWAJA.  A  Bkhi  to  whom  many  Yedic  hjmms  are 
attributed.  He  was  the  son  of  Brdiaspati  and  father  of  Dro/ta, 
the  preceptor  of  the  VandaYas.  The  Taittiiiya  BrahmaTza  says 
that  "  he  lived  through  three  lives  "  (probably  meaning  a  life  of 
great  length),  and  that  "  he  became  immortal  and  ascended  to 


46  BHARADWAJA—BHARATA. 

the  heavenly  world,  to  union  with  the  sun."  In  the  Maha- 
bharata  he  is  represented  as  Hving  at  Hard  war  ;  in  the  Kamaya?ia 
he  received  Eania  and  Sita  in  his  hermitage  at  Prayaga,  wliich 
was  then  and  afterwards  much  celebrated.  According  to  some 
of  the  Pura7ias  and  the  Hari-vansa,  he  became  by  gift  or  adop- 
tion the  son  of  King  Bharata,  and  an  absurd  story  is  told  about 
his  birth  to  account  for  his  name  :  His  mother,  the  wife  of 
Utathya,  was  pregnant  by  her  husband  and  by  Br/haspati. 
Dirgha-tamas,  the  son  by  her  husband,  kicked  his  half-brother 
out  of  the  womb  before  his  time,  when  Br/haspati  said  to  his 
mother,  '  Bhara-dwa-jam,'  '  Cherish  this  child  of  two  fathers.' 

BHARADWAJA.  i.  Dro?ia.  2.  Any  descendant  of  Bharad- 
waja  or  follower  of  his  teaching.  3,  Xame  of  a  grammarian  and 
author  of  Siitras. 

BHARATA.  i.  A  hero  and  king  from  whom  the  warlike 
people  called  Bharatas,  frequently  mentioned  in  the  i?ig-veda, 
were  descended.  The  name  is  mixed  up  with  that  of  Viswami- 
tra.  Bharata's  sons  were  called  Yiswamitras  and  Yiswamitra's 
sons  were  called  Bharatas. 

2.  An  ancient  king  of  the  first  Manwantara.  He  was 
devoted  to  Vish?m,  and  abdicated  his  throne  that  he  might 
continue  constant  in  meditation  upon  him.  While  at  his 
hermitage,  he  went  to  bathe  in  the  river,  and  there  saw  a  doe 
big  with  young  frightened  by  a  lion.  Her  fawn,  which  was 
brought  forth  suddenly,  fell  into  the  water,  and  the  sage  rescued 
it.  He  brought  the  animal  up,  and  becoming  excessively  fond 
of  it,  his  abstraction  was  interrupted.  "  In  the  course  of  time 
he  died,  watched  by  the  deer  with  tears  in  its  eyes,  hke  a  son 
mourning  for  his  father  ;  and  he  liimself,  as  he  expired,  cast  his 
eyes  upon  the  deer  and  thought  of  nothing  else,  being  wholly 
occuj)ied  with  one  idea."  For  this  misapj)lied  devotion  he  was 
born  again  as  a  deer  with  the  faculty  of  recollecting  his  former 
life.  Li  this  form  he  lived  an  austere  retired  life,  and  having 
atoned  for  his  former  error,  was  born  again  as  a  Brahman.  But 
his  person  was  ungainly,  and  he  looked  like  a  crazy  idiot.  Ho 
discharged  servile  offices,  and  was  a  palankin  bearer;  but  he 
had  true  wisdom,  and  discoursed  deeply  upon  philosophy  and 
the  power  of  Yishyzu.  Finally  he  obtained  exemj^tion  from 
future  birtli.  This  legend  is  ''  a  sectarial  graft  upon  a  Paura?iik 
stem." 


BHARATA—BHARGAVA.  47 

3.  Son  of  Dasaratlia  by  his  wife  Kaikeyi,  and  lialf-brotlier 
of  Rama-chandra.  He  was  educated  by  his  mother's  father, 
Aswa-pati,  king  of  Kekaya,  and  married  Ma?2(iavi,  the  cousin 
of  Sita.  His  mother,  through  maternal  fondness,  brought 
about  the  exile  of  Rama,  and  endeavoured  to  secure  her  own 
son's  succession  to  the  throne,  but  Bharata  refused  to  su^^plant 
his  elder  brother.  On  the  death  of  his  father  Bharata  per- 
formed the  funeral  rites,  and  went  after  Rama  with  a  complete 
army  to  bring  him  back  to  Ayodliya  and  place  him  on  the  throne. 
He  found  Rama  at  Chitra-kii/a,  and  there  was  a  generous  con- 
tention between  them  as  to  which  should  reign.  Rama  refused 
to  return  until  the  period  of  his  exile  was  completed,  and 
Bharata  dechned  to  be  king;  but  he  returned  to  Ayodhya 
as  Rama's  representative,  and  setting  up  a  pair  of  Rama's 
shoes  as  a  mark  of  his  authority,  Bharata  ruled  the  country  in 
his  brother's  name.  "  He  destroyed  thirty  millions  of  terribla 
gandharvas  "  and  made  himself  master  of  their  country. 

4.  A  prince  of  the  Puru  branch  of  the  Lunar  race.  Bharata 
was  son  of  Dushyanta  and  iSakuntala.  Ninth  in  descent  from 
him  came  Kuru,  and  fourteenth  from  Ivuru  came  /Santanu. 
This  king  had  a  son  named  Vichitra-virya,  who  died  child- 
less, leaving  two  widows.  Krzslwa  Dwaipayana  was  natural 
brother  to  Yichitra-virya.  Under  the  law  he  raised  up  seed  to 
his  brother  from  the  widows,  whose  sons  were  Dh?'ita-rash/ra 
and  Pa?i(iu,  between  whose  descendants,  the  Kauravas  and 
Pa/ic/avas,  the  great  war  of  the  IMaha-bharata  was  fought. 
Through  their  descent  from  Bharata,  these  princes,  but  more 
especially  the  Pa/it^avas,  were  called  Bharatas. 

5.  A  sage  who  is  the  reputed  inventor  of  dramatic  entertain- 
ments. 

6.  A  name  borne  by  several  others  of  less  note  than  the 
above. 

BHARATA.  A  descendant  of  Bharata,  especially  one  of  the 
Fa,ndii  princes. 

BHARATA- VARSHA.  India,  as  having  been  the  kingdom 
of  Bharata.  It  is  divided  into  nine  Kha?if/as  or  parts  :  Indra- 
dwipa,  Kaserumat,  Tamra-varwa,  Gabhastimat,  ISTaga-dwIpa, 
Saumya,  Gandharva,  Yaru?za. 

BHARATi.     A  name  of  SaraswatL 

BHARGAA^A.     a  descendant  of  Bh?i'gu,  as  Chyavana,  /Sau- 


48  BHARTRI-HA  RI—DHA  TTI-KA  VYA. 

naka,  Jamad-agni,  but  more  especially  used  for  the  latter  and 
Para.?u-rama. 

BIIAETit/-HAEL  A  celebrated  poet  and  grammarian,  wbo 
is  said  to  have  been  the  brother  of  Yikramaditya.  He  wrote 
three  A^atakas  or  Centuries  of  verses,  called — (i.)  /6Vmgara-5ataka, 
on  amatory  matters ;  (2.)  Mti-5ataka,  on  polity  and  ethics;  (3.) 
A^'airagya-sataka,  on  religious  austerity.  These  maxims  are  said  to 
have  been  written  when  he  had  taken  to  a  religious  life  after  a 
licentious  youth.  He  was  also  author  of  a  grammatical  work  of 
high  repute  called  Yakya-padiya,  and  the  poem  called  Bha//i- 
kavya  is  by  some  attributed  to  him.  The  moral  verses  were 
translated  into  French  so  long  ago  as  1 6  7  o.  A  note  at  the  end 
of  that  translation  says,  "  Trad,  par  le  Brahmine  Padmanaba  en 
flamand  et  du  flamand  en  fran9ais  par  Th.  La  Grue."  The  text 
Avith  a  Latin  translation  was  printed  by  S chief ner  and  Weber. 
There  is  a  translation  in  German  by  Bohlen  and  Schiitz,  in 
French  by  Fauche,  and  of  the  erotic  verses  by  Regnaud;  in 
English  by  Professor  Tawney  in  the  Indian  Antiquary. 

BHASHA-PARICHCHHEDA.  An  exposition  of  the  NySya 
philosophy.     There  are  several  editions. 

BHASKARACHARYA.  (Bhaskara  +  Acharya.)  A  cele- 
brated* mathematician  and  astronomer,  who  was  born  early  in 
the  eleventh  century  a.d.  He  Avas  author  of  the  Bija-gamta  on 
arithmetic,  the  Lilavati  on  algebra,  and  the  Siddhanta  /S'iromam 
on  astronomy.  It  has  been  claimed  for  Bhaskara  that  he  "was 
fully  acquainted  with  the  principle  of  the  Differential  Calculus." 
This  claim  Dr.  Spottiswoode  considers  to  be  overstated,  but  he 
observes  of  Bhaskara  :  "  It  must  be  admitted  that  the  penetration 
shown  by  Bhaskara  in  his  analysis  is  in  the  highest,  degree 
remarkable ;  that  the  formula  which  he  establishes,  and  his 
method  of  establishing  it,  bear  more  than  a  mere  resemblance — 
they  bear  a  strong  analogy — to  the  corresponding  process  in 
modern  astronomy ;  and  that  the  majority  of  scientific  persons 
will  learn  with  surprise  the  existence  of  such  a  method  in  the 
writings  of  so  distant  a  period  and  so  distant  a  region." — Jour. 
R  A.  S.,  1S59. 

BHA7TACHARYA.     See  Kumfirila  Bha//a. 

BHArn-KAYYA.  A  poem  on  the  actions  of  Rama  by 
Bha^^i.  It  is  of  a  very  artificial  character,  and  is  designed  to 
illustrate  the  laws    of  grammar  and  the  figures  of  poetry  and 


BHA  UMA—BHIKSHU.  49 

rhetoric.     The  text  has  been  printed  with  a  commentary,  and 
part  has  been  translated  into  German  by  Schiitz. 

BHAUMA.  Son  of  Bhumi  (the  earth).  A  metronymic  of 
the  Daitya  Naraka, 

BHAUTYA.     The  fourteenth  Mann.     See  Mann. 

BHAYA.  I.  A  Yedic  deity  often  mentioned  in  connection 
Avith  /S'arva  the  destroyer.  2.  A  name  of  Rudra  or  /S'iva,  or  of 
a  manifestation  of  that  god.     See  Rudra. 

BHAYA-BHUTL  A  celebrated  dramatist,  the  author  of 
three  of  the  best  extant  Sanskrit  dramas,  the  Maha-vira  Charita, 
Uttara  Rama  Charita,  and  Malati  Madhava.  He  was  also 
known  as  /Sri-kan^ha,  or  '  throat  of  eloquence. '  He  was  a  Brah- 
man, and  was  a  native  either  of  Beder  or  Berar,  but  Ujjayini  or 
its  neighbourhood  would  seem,  from  his  vivid  descriptions  of  the 
scenery,  to  have  been  the  place  of  his  residence.  The  eighth 
century  is  the  period  at  which  he  flourished.  His  three  plays 
have  been  translated  by  Wilson  in  blank  verse,  who  says  of 
Malati  Madliava,  "  The  author  is  fond  of  an  unreasonable  display 
of  learning,  and  occasionally  substitutes  the  phraseology  of 
logic  or  metaphysics  for  the  language  of  poetry  and  nature.  At 
the  same  time  the  beauties  predominate  over  the  defects,  and 
the  language  of  the  drama  is  in  general  of  extraordinary  beauty 
and  power." 

BHAYISHYA  PURAiYA.  "  This  PuraT^a,  as  its  name  im- 
jilies,  should  be  a  book  of  prophecies  foretelling  what  will  be." 
The  copies  discovered  contain  about  7000  stanzas.  The  work 
is  far  from  agreeing  with  the  declared  character  of  a  Purawa, 
and  is  principally  a  manual  of  rites  and  ceremonies.  Its  deity 
is  iS'iva,  There  is  another  work,  containing  also  about  7000 
verses,  called  the  Bhavishyottara  PuraT^a,  a  name  which  would 
imply  that  "  it  was  a  continuation  or  supj)lement  of  the  former," 
and  its  contents  are  of  a  similar  character. — Wilson. 

BHAYISHYOTTARA  PURAiVA.     See  Bhavishya  PurSwa. 

BHAWAISI'I.  One  of  the  names  of  the  wife  of  ^iva.  See 
Devi. 

BHELA.     An  ancient  sage  who  wrote  upon  medicine. 

BHIKSHU.  A  mendicant.  The  Brahman  in  the  fourth 
and  last  stage  of  his  religious  life.     See  Brahman. 

Any  mendicant,  especially,  in  its  Pali  form,  Bhikkhu,  a  Bud- 
dhist mendicant. 

D 


so  BHIMA. 

BHlMA,  BHIMA-SENA.  'The  terrible.'  The  second  of 
the  five  Pam?u  princes,  and  mythically  son  of  Vayu,  '  the  god  of 
the  wind.'  He  was  a  man  of  vast  size,  and  had  great  strength. 
He  was  M'rathful  in  temper,  and  given  to  abuse,  a  brave  warrior, 
but  a  fierce  and  cruel  foe,  coarse  in  taste  and  manners,  and  a 
great  feeder,  so  that  he  was  called  Vrikodara,  'wolfs  belly.' 
Half  of  the  food  of  the  family  was  allotted  to  him,  and  the  other 
half  sufficed  for  his  four  brothers  and  their  mother.  The  weapon 
he  generally  used  was  a  club,  which  suited  liis  gigantic  strength, 
and  he  had  been  trained  in  the  use  of  it  by  Drowa  and  Bala- 
rama.  His  great  strength  excited  the  envy  of  his  cousin  Dur- 
yodhana,  who  poisoned  him  and  threw  his  body  into  the 
Ganges ;  but  it  sank  to  the  reahn  of  the  serpents,  where  it  was 
restored  to  health  and  vigour,  and  Bhima  returned  to  Hastina- 
pura.  At  the  passage  of  arms  at  Hastinapura,  he  and  Dur- 
yodhana  engaged  each  other  with  clubs ;  but  the  mimic  combat 
soon  turned  into  a  fierce  personal  conflict,  which  Dro?ia  had  to 
put  an  end  to  by  force.  It  was  at  tliis  same  meeting  that  he 
reviled  Karwa,  and  heaped  contempt  upon  him,  increasing  and 
converting  into  bitter  hatred  the  enmity  which  Kar^za  had  pre- 
viously entertained  against  the  PaTif/avas.  When  he  and  his 
brothers  were  in  exile,  and  an  attempt  was  made,  at  the  instiga- 
tion of  Dur-yodhana,  to  burn  them  in  their  house,  it  was  he  who 
barricaded  the  house  of  Purochana,  the  director  of  the  plot,  and 
burnt  him  as  he  had  intended  to  burn  them.  Soon  after  this 
he  met  the  Asura  Hit^imba,  whom  he  killed,  and  then  married 
his  sister  Hi(iimba.  He  also  slew  another  Asura  named  Yaka, 
whom  he  seized  by  the  legs  and  tore  asunder ;  afterwards  he 
killed  his  brother,  Kirmira,  and  other  Asuras.  This  brought  the 
Asuras  to  submission,  and  they  engaged  to  refrain  from  molest- 
ing mankind.  After  the  V^ndw  2)rinces  were  estabhshed  at 
Indraprastha,  Bhima  fought  in  single  combat  with  Jarasandha, 
king  of  Magadha,  who  had  refused  to  recognise  their  supremacy. 
As  '  son  of  the  wind,'  Bhima  was  brother  of  Hanuman,  and  was 
able  to  fly  with  great  speed.  By  this  power  of  flight,  and  with 
the  help  of  Hanuman,  he  made  his  way  to  Kuvera's  heaven, 
higli  up  in  the  Himalayas.  A\^ien  Jayadratha  failed  in  his 
attem2)t  to  carry  off  Draupadi,  he  was  i)ursued  by  Arjuna  and 
Bhima.  The  latter  overtook  him,  dragged  him  by  the  hair  from 
his  chariot  to  the  ground,  and  kicked  him  till  he  became  sense- 


BHIMA.    '  51 

less.  At  Arj Una's  remonstrance  Bliima  refrained  from  killing 
him  ;  but  lie  cut  off  all  his  hair  except  five  locks,  and  compelled 
him  to  acknowledge  publicly  that  he  was  the  slave  of  the 
Pa?i(^avas.  Bhima  refused  to  listen  to  his  brother's  plea  for 
Jayadratha's  release,  but  at  Draupadi's  intercession  he  let  him 
go  free.  In  the  second  exile  of  the  PaTZcZavas,  they  went  to  the 
Kaja  of  Yira^fa,  whose  service  they  entered.  Bhima,  holding  a 
ladle  in  one  hand  and  a  sword  in  the  other,  undertook  the  duties 
of  cook ;  but  he  soon  exhibited  his  prowess  by  fighting  with  and 
killing  a  famous  wrestler  named  Jimuta.  Draupadi  had  entered 
into  the  service  of  the  queen  as  a  waiting-maid,  and  attracted 
the  admiration  of  the  king's  brother-in-law,  Kichaka.  When  she 
rejected  his  advances,  he  insulted  and  brutally  assaulted  her. 
Her  husbands  did  not  seem  disposed  to  avenge  her,  so  she 
appealed  to  Bhima,  as  she  was  wont  when  she  sought  revenge, 
DrauiDadi  made  an  assignation  with  Kichaka,  which  Bhima  kept, 
and  after  a  sharp  struggle  with  the  disaj^jDoiiited  gallant,  he 
broke  his  bones  to  atoms,  and  made  his  body  into  a  large  ball 
of  flesh,  so  that  no  one  could  tell  how  he  had  been  killed  or 
who  had  killed  him.  Draupadi  was  judged  to  have  had  a  share 
in  his  death,  and  was  condemned  to  be  burnt  alive ;  but  Bhima 
drew  his  hair  over  his  face,  so  that  no  one  could  recognise  him, 
and,  tearing  up  a  large  tree  for  a  club,  he  rushed  to  the  rescue. 
He  was  taken  for  a  mighty  Gandliarva,  the  crowd  fled,  and 
Draupadi  was  released.  Kichaka  had  been  the  general  of  the 
forces  of  Yira;!a  and  the  mainstay  of  the  king.  After  his  death, 
Su-sarman,  king  of  Trigartta,  aided  and  abetted  by  the  Kaiiravas 
and  others,  determined  to  attack  Vira/a.  The  Raja  of  Yira/a 
was  defeated  and  made  prisoner,  but  Bhima  pursued  Su-5arman 
and  overcame  him,  rescued  the  prisoner,  and  made  the  conqueror 
captive.  In  the  great  battle  between  the  Kauravas  and  Pam/a- 
vas,  Bhima  took  a  very  j)rominent  part.  On  the  first  day  he 
fought  against  Bhishma ;  on  the  second  he  slew  the  two  sons  of 
the  Raj  a  of  Magadha,  and  after  them  their  father,  killing  him 
and  his  elephant  at  a  single  blow.  In  the  night  between  the 
fourteenth  and  fifteenth  day  of  the  battle,  Bhima  fought  with 
Dro?za  until  the  rising  of  the  sun ;  but  that  redoubted  warrior 
fell  by  the  hand  of  Dh?'ish/a-dyumna,  who  continued  the  combat 
till  noonday.  On  the  seventeenth  day  he  killed  Duh-sasana, 
and  drank  his  blood,  as  he  had  long  before  vowed  to  do,  in 


52  ■     BHIMA, 

retaliation  of  the  insults  Duli-sasana  had  offered  to  DranpadT. 
On  the  eighteenth  and  last  day  of  the  battle  Dur-yodhana  fled 
and  hid  himself  in  a  lake.  "When  he  was  discovered,  he  would 
not  come  out  until  he  had  received  a  promise  that  he  should  not 
have  to  fight  with  more  than  one  man  at  a  time.  Even  then 
he  delayed  until  he  was  irritated  by  the  abuse  and  the  taunts 
of  the  Pa7i<iavas.  Bhima  and  Dur-yodhana  fought  as  usual 
with  clubs.  The  battle  was  long  and  furious  ;  the  parties  were 
equally  matched,  and  Bhima  was  getting  the  worst  of  it,  when 
he  struck  an  unfair  blow  which  smashed  Dur-yodhana's  thigh, 
and  brought  him  to  the  ground.  Thus  he  fulfilled  his  vow  and 
avenged  Draupadi.  In  his  fury  Bhima  kicked  his  prostrate 
foe  on  the  head,  and  acted  so  brutally  that  his  brother  Yudlii- 
sh^hira  struck  him  in  the  face  with  his  fist,  and  directed  Arjuna 
to  take  him  away.  Bala-rama  was  greatly  incensed  at  the  foul 
play  to  wliich  Bhima  had  resorted,  and  would  have  attacked 
the  Pawf^avas  had  he  not  been  mollified  by  Krishna.  He  de- 
clared that  Bhima  should  thenceforward  be  called  Jihma-yodhin, 
'the  unfair  fighter.'  After  the  conclusion  of  the  war,  the  old 
king,  Dh?-'ita-rash/ra,  asked  that  Bhima  might  be  brought  to  him. 
K?'isliwa,  who  knew  the  blind  old  man's  sorrow  for  his  son, 
whom  Bhima  had  killed,  and  suspecting  his  intention,  placed 
before  him  an  iron  statue,  which  Dlwita-rash^ra  crushed  in  his 
embrace.  Dh?'ita-rash/ra  never  forgave  Bhima,  and  he  returned 
the  ill  feeling  with  insults,  which  ended  in  the  old  king's  retir- 
ing into  the  forest.  Bhiraa's  last  public  feat  was  the  slaughter 
of  the  horse  in  the  sacrifice  which  followed  Yudhi-sh/hira's 
accession  to  the  throne.  Apart  from  his  mythological  attributes, 
the  character  of  Bhima  is  natural  and  distinct.  A  man  of  burly 
form,  prodigious  strength,  and  great  animal  courage,  with  coarse 
tastes,  a  gluttonous  appetite,  and  an  irascible  temper ;  jovial  and 
jocular  when  in  good  humour,  but  abusive,  truculent,  and  brutal 
when  his  passions  were  roused.  His  repartees  were  forcible  though 
coarse,  and  he  held  his  own  even  against  K?'/sh?ia  when  the 
latter  made  personal  remarks  upon  him.     See  Mahii-bharata. 

By  his  Asura  wife  Hi<:?imba  he  had  a  son  named  Gha^otkacha  ; 
and  by  his  wife  Balandhara,  princess  of  Kiisi,  he  also  had  a  son 
named  Sarvatraga  or  Sarvaga.  Other  appellations  of  Bhima  are 
Bhima-sena,  Bahu-sfdin,  '  tlie  large  armed,'  Jarasandha-jit,  '  van- 
quisher of  Jarasandha.' 


BHIMA—BHISHMA.  53 

BHIMA.  Il^ame  of  the  father  of  Damayanti.  A  name  of 
Kudra  or  of  one  of  his  personifications,     ^ee  Rudra. 

BHIMA  aSANKARA,  BHIME^'WARA.  Name  of  one  of 
the  twelve  great  Lingas.     See  Linga. 

BHIMA-SENA.     A  name  of  Bhima. 

BHISHMA  '  The  terrible.'  Son  of  King  ^S'antanu  by  the 
holy  river  goddess  Ganga,  and  hence  called  /S'antanava,  Gangeya, 
and  Nadi-ja,  'the  river-born.'  When  King  /Santanu  was  very 
old  he  desired  to  marry  a  yonng  and  beautiful  wdfe.  His  son 
^antanava  or  Bhishma  found  a  suitable  damsel,  but  her  parents 
objected  to  the  marriage  because  Bhishma  was  heir  to  the  throne, 
and  if  she  bore  sons  they  could  not  succeed.  To  gratify  his 
father's  desires,  he  made  a  vow  to  the  girl's  parents  that  he 
would  never  accept  the  throne,  nor  marry  a  wife,  nor  become 
the  father  of  children.  iS'antanu  then  married  the  damsel,  whose 
name  was  Satyavati,  and  she  bore  him  two  sons.  At  the  death 
of  his  father,  Bhishma  placed  the  elder  son  upon  the  throne,  but 
he  was  headstrong  and  was  soon  killed  in  battle.  The  other 
son,  named  Yichitra-viryya,  then  succeeded,  and  Bhishma  acted 
as  his  protector  and  adviser.  By  force  of  arms  Bhishma  obtained 
two  daughters  of  the  king  of  Ka5i  and  married  them  to  Vichitra- 
viryya,  and  when  that  prince  died  young  and  childless,  Bhishma 
acted  as  guardian  of  his  widows.  By  Bhishma's  arrangement, 
Knsh?za  Dwaipayana,  who  was  born  of  Satyavati  before  her 
marriage,  raised  up  seed  to  his  half-brother.  The  two  children 
were  Pa?zc?u  and  Dh?"ita-rash/ra.  Bhishma  brought  them  up  and 
acted  for  them  as  regent  of  Hastina-pura.  He  also  directed  the 
training  of  their  respective  children,  the  Pa?zc?avas  and  Kauravas. 
On  the  rupture  taking  place  between  the  rival  families,  Bhishma 
counselled  moderation  and  peace.  When  the  war  began  he 
took  the  side  of  the  Kauravas,  the  sons  of  Dhr/ta-rash/ra,  and 
he  was  made  commander-in-chief  of  their  army.  He  laid  down 
some  rules  for  mitigating  the  horrors  of  war,  and  he  stipulated 
that  he  should  not  be  called  uj)on  to  fight  against  Arjuna. 
Goaded  by  the  reproaches  of  Dur-yodhana,  he  attacked  Arjuna 
on  the  tenth  day  of  the  battle.  He  was  unfairly  wounded  by 
/S'ikhandin,  and  was  pierced  with  innumerable  arrows  from  the 
hands  of  Arjuna,  so  that  there  was  not  a  space  of  two  fingers' 
breadth  left  unwounded  in  his  whole  body,  and  when  he  fell 
from  his  chariot  he  was  upheld  from  the  ground  by  the 
arrows  and  lay  as   on    a    couch  of   darts.     He  was    mortally 


54  BHISHMAKA—BHRIGU. 

wounded,  but  he  had  obtained  the  power  of  fixing  the  period 
of  his  death,  so  he  survived  fifty-eight  days,  and  dehvered 
several  long  didactic  discourses.  Bhishma  exhibited  through- 
out his  life  a  self-denial,  devotion,  and  fidelit}^  which  remained 
unsullied  to  the  last.  He  is  also  known  by  the  appellation 
Tarpawechchhu,  and  as  Tala-ketu,  'palm  banner.'  iiee  Maha- 
bharata. 

BHISHMAKA.  i.  An  appellation  of  /Siva.  2.  King  of 
Vidarbha,  father  of  Rukmin  and  of  Rukmini,  the  chief  wife  of 
IO'ish?ia. 

BHOGAVATI.  '  The  voluptuous.'  The  subterranean  capital 
of  the  Xagas  in  the  Naga-loka  portion  of  Piitala.  Another  name 
is  Put-kari. 

BHOJA.  A  name  borne  by  many  kings.  Most  conspicuous 
among  them  was  Bhoja  or  Bhoja-deva,  king  of  Dhar,  who  is  said 
to  have  been  a  great  patron  of  literature,  and  probably  died 
before  1082  a.d.  2.  A  prince  of  the  Yadava  race  who  reigned 
at  ]\I?7'ttikavatI  on  the  Par?2,asa  river  in  Malwa;  he  is  called 
also  Maha-bhoja.  3.  A  tribe  living  in  the  Vindhya  mountains. 
4.   A  country  ;  the  modern  Bhojpur,  Bhagalpur,  &c. 

BHOJA-PRABANDHA.  A  collection  of  literary  anecdotes 
relating  to  King  Bhoja  of  Dhar,  written  by  BalHla.  The  text 
has  been  lithographed  by  Pavie. 

BHit/GU.  A  Vedic  sage.  He  is  one  of  the  Prajapatis  and 
great  i^/shis,  and  is  regarded  as  the  founder  of  the  race  of  the 
Bhrigus  or  Bhargavas,  in  which  was  born  Jamad-agni  and  Para^u 
Rama.  Manu  calls  him  son,  and  says  that  he  confides  to  him 
his  Institutes.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata  he  officiated  at 
Daksha's  celebrated  sacrifice,  and  had  his  beard  pulled  out  by 
/Siva.  The  same  authority  also  tells  the  following  story  : — It  is 
related  of  Bhrigu  that  he  rescued  the  sage  Agastya  from  the 
tyranny  of  King  Nahusha,  who  had  obtained  suj^erhuman 
power.  Bli?-igu  crept  into  Agastya's  hair  to  avoid  the  potent 
glance  of  Nahusha,  and  when  that  tyrant  attached  Agastya  to 
his  chariot  and  kicked  him  on  the  head  to  make  him  move, 
Bh7-/gu  cursed  Nahusha,  and  he  was  turned  into  a  serpent. 
Bh/igu,  on  Nahusha's  supplication,  limited  the  duration  of  his 
curse. 

In  the  Padma  Purana  it  is  related  that  the  i^ishis,  assembled 
at  a  sacrifice,  disputed  as  to  which  deity  was  best  entitled  to  the 


BHRIGU—BHUTA. 


55 


homage  of  a  Brahman.  Being  unable  to  agree,  they  resolved  to 
send  Bhngii  to  test  the  characters  of  the  various  gods,  and  he 
accordingly  went.  He  could  not  obtain  access  to  ^S'iva  because 
that  deity  was  engaged  with  his  wife ;  "  finding  him,  therefore, 
to  consist  of  the  property  of  darkness,  Bhrigu  sentenced  him  to 
take  the  form  of  the  Linga,  and  pronounced  that  he  should  have 
no  offerings  presented  to  him,  nor  receive  the  worship  of  the 
pious  and  respectable.  His  next  visit  was  to  Brahma,  whom  he 
beheld  surrounded  by  sages,  and  so  much  inflated  with  his  own 
importance  as  to  treat  Bhngu  with  great  inattention,  betraying 
his  being  made  up  of  foulness.  The  Muni  therefore  excluded 
him  from  the  worship  of  the  Brahmans.  Repairing  next  to 
Vishmi,  he  found  the  deity  asleep,  and,  indignant  at  his  seeming 
sloth,  Bh?'igu  stamj^ed  upon  his  breast  with  his  left  foot  and 
awoke  him ;  instead  of  being  offended,  VisliTiu  gently  pressed 
the  Brahman's  foot  and  expressed  himself  honoured  and  made 
happy  by  its  contact ;  and  Bhrigu,  highly  pleased  by  his  humi- 
lity, and  satisfied  of  his  being  impersonated  goodness,  proclaimed 
Vishvzu  as  the  only  being  to  be  worshipped  by  men  or  gods,  in 
which  decision  the  Munis,  upon  BhW-gu's  report,  concurred." — 
Wilson. 

BHit/GUS.  'Roasters,  consumers.'  "A  class  of  mythical 
beings  who  belonged  to  the  middle  or  aerial  class  of  gods." — 
Roth.  They  are  connected  with  Agni,  and  are  spoken  of  as 
producers  and  nourishers  of  fire,  and  as  makers  of  chariots. 
They  are  associated  with  the  Angirasas,  the  Atharvans,  i^ib- 
hus,  &c. 

BHU,  BHUMI.     The  earth.     8m  Pnthivi. 

BHUR.     Sm  Yvahnti. 

BHURI-^SRAYAS.  A  prince  of  the  Balhikas  and  an  ally  of 
the  Kauravas,  who  was  killed  in  the  great  battle  of  the  Maha- 
bharata. 

BHUR-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

BHUTA.  A  ghost,  imp,  gobhn.  Malignant  spirits  which 
haunt  cemeteries,  lurk  in  trees,  animate  dead  bodies,  and  delude 
and  devour  human  beings.  According  to  the  YishTZu  PuraTia 
they  are  "fierce  beings  and  eaters  of  flesh,"  who  were  created  by 
the  Creator  when  he  was  incensed.  In  the  Vayu  Pura?ia  their 
mother  is  said  to  have  been  Krodha,  'anger.'  The  Bluitas  are 
attendants  of  /Siva,  and  he  is  held  to  be  their  king. 


56  BHUTESA— BRAHMA. 

BHUTE^S'A,  BHUTE^S^YARA.  'Lord  of  beings  or  of 
created  things.'  A  name  applied  to  Yish?zii,  Brahma,  and 
K?7shna;  as  'lord  of  the  Bhutas  or  goblins,'  it  is  applied  to 
/Siva. 

BHUYANES'WARA.  A  ruined  city  in  Orissa,  sacred  to 
the  worship  of  /S'iva,  and  containing  the  remains  of  several 
temples.     It  was  formerly  called  Ekamra-kanana. 

BHUYAR.     See  Yyahnti. 

BHUYAR-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

BIBHATSU.     'Loathing.'     An  appellation  of  Arjuna. 

BIXDUSARA.     The  son  and  successor  of  Chandra-gupta. 

BRAHMA,  BRAHMAN  (neuter).  The  supreme  soul  of  the 
universe,  self-existent,  absolute,  and  eternal,  from  which  all  things 
emanate,  and  to  which  all  return.  This  divine  essence  is  incor- 
poreal, immaterial,  invisible,  unborn,  uncreated,  without  begin- 
ning and  without  end,  illimitable,  and  inappreciable  by  the  sense 
until  the  film  of  mortal  blindness  is  removed.  It  is  all-pervading 
and  infinite  in  its  manifestations,  in  all  nature,  animate  and  in- 
animate, in  the  highest  god  and  in  the  meanest  creature.  This 
supreme  soul  receives  no  worship,  but  it  is  the  object  of  that 
abstract  meditation  which  Hindu  sages  practise  in  order  to 
obtain  absorption  into  it.     It  is  sometimes  called  Kala-hansa. 

There  is  a  passage  in  the  /S'atapatha  Brahma?ia  which  repre- 
sents Brahma  (neut.)  as  the  active  creator.     See  Brahma. 

The  Yeda  is  sometimes  called  Brahma. 

BRAHMA  (masculine).  The  first  member  of  the  Hindu 
triad;  the  supreme  spirit  manifested  as  the  active  creator  of 
the  universe.  He  sprang  from  the  mundane  ^^^g  deposited  by 
the  supreme  first  cause,  and  is  the  Prajapati,  or  lord  and  father 
of  all  creatures,  and  in  the  first  place  of  the  i?ishis  or  Praja- 
patis. 

When  Brahma  has  created  the  world  it  remains  unaltered  for 
one  of  his  days,  a  period  of  2,160,000,000  years.  The  world  and 
all  that  is  therein  is  then  consumed  by  fire,  but  the  sages,  gods, 
and  elements  survive.  When  he  awakes  he  again  restores  crea- 
tion, and  this  process  is  repeated  until  his  existence  of  a  hundred 
years  is  brought  to  a  close,  a  period  which  it  requires  fifteen 
figures  to  express.  When  this  period  is  ended  he  himself  expires, 
and  he  and  all  the  gods  and  sages,  and  the  wliole  universe  are 
resolved  into  their  constituent  elements.     His  name  is  invoked 


BRAHMA.  57 

in  religions  services,  "but  Puslikara  i^iodie  Pokliar),  near  Ajmir, 
is  the  only  place  where  he  receives  worship,  though  Professor 
Williams  states  that  he  has  heard  of  homage  being  paid  to  him 
at  Idar. 

Brahmil  is  said  to  be  of  a  red  colour.  He  has  four  heads ; 
originally  he  had  five,  but  one  was  burnt  off  by  the  fire  of  *Siva's 
central  eye  because  he  had  spoken  disrespectfully.  Hence  he  is 
called  Chatur-anana  or  Chatur-mukha,  'four-faced,'  and  Ash/a- 
karwa,  'eight-eared.'  He  has  four  arms  ;  and  in  his  hands  he 
holds  his  sceptre,  or  a  spoon,  or  a  string  of  beads,  or  his  bow 
Parivita,  or  a  water  jug,  and  the  Veda.  His  consort  is  Saraswati, 
goddess  of  learning,  also  called  Brahmi.  His  vehicle  is  a  swan 
or  goose,  from  which  he  is  called  Hansa-vahana.  His  residence 
is  called  Brahma-vfinda. 

The  name  Brahma  is  not  found  in  the  Vedas  and  Brahmawas, 
in  which  the  actiA^e  creator  is  known  as  HiraTiya-garbha,  Praja- 
pati,  &c. ;  but  there  is  a  curious  passage  in  the  AS'atapatha  Brah- 
nia?2a  which  says  :  "  He  (Brahma,  neuter)  created  the  gods. 
Having  created  the  gods,  he  placed  them  in  these  worlds :  in  this 
world  Agni,  Yayu  in  the  atmosphere,  and  Siirya  in  the  sky." 
Two  points  connected  with  Brahma  are  remarkable.  As  the 
father  of  men  he  performs  the  work  of  procreation  by  incestuous 
intercourse  with  his  own  daughter,  variously  named  Vach  or 
Saraswati  (speech),  Sandliya  (twilight),  /S'ata-rupa  (the  hundred- 
formed),  &c.  Secondly,  that  his  powers  as  creator  have  been 
arrogated  to  the  other  gods  Yishwu  and  .Siva,  while  Brahma  has 
been  thrown  into  the  shade.  In  the  Aitareya  Brahma?ia  it  is  said 
that  Prajapati  was  in  the  form  of  a  buck  and  his  daughter  was 
Kohit,  a  deer.  According  to  the  ^S'atapatha  Brahma?m  and  Manu, 
the  supreme  soul,  the  self-existent  lord,  created  the  waters  and 
deposited  in  them  a  seed,  which  seed  became  a  golden  ^<g^^  in 
which  he  himself  was  born  as  Brahma,  the  progenitor  of  all  the 
worlds.  As  the  waters  (nara)  were  "  the  place  of  his  movement, 
he  (Brahma)  was  called  Xaraya?ia."  Here  the  name  Narayawa  is 
referred  distinctly  to  Brahma,  but  it  afterwards  became  the  name 
of  Vishmi.  The  account  of  the  Ramayawa  is  that  "  all  was  water 
only,  in  which  the  earth  was  formed.  Thence  arose  Brahma,  the 
self-existent,  with  the  deities.  He  then,  becoming  a  boar,  raised 
up  the  earth  and  created  the  whole  world  with  the  saints,  his 
sons.     Brahma,  eternal  and  per23etually  undecaying,  sjDrang  from 


58  BRAHMA. 

tlie  ether ;  from  him  was  descended  Marlclii ;  the  son  of  Marichi 
was  Ka^vapa.  From  Kasyapa  sprang  Yivaswat,  and  Manu  is 
declared  to  have  been  Yivaswat's  son."  A  later  recension  of 
this  poem  alters  this  passage  so  as  to  make  Brahma  a  mere 
manifestation  of  A'ishmi.  Instead  of  "  Brahma,  the  self-exis- 
tent, with  the  deities,"  it  substitutes  for  the  last  three  words, 
"the  imperishable  Vishmi."  The  Mshwu  PuraTia  says  that  the 
"  divine  Brahma  called  Xarayawa  created  all  beings,"  that  Pra- 
jrii)ati  "had  formerly,  at  the  commencement  of  the  (previous) 
kalpas,  taken  the  shape  of  a  fish,  a  tortoise,  &c.,  (so  now), 
entering  the  body  of  a  boar,  the  lord  of  creatures  entered  the 
water."  But  this  "lord  of  creatures"  is  clearly  shown  to  be 
Vishmi,  and  these  three  forms,  the  fish,  the  tortoise,  and  the  boar, 
are  now  counted  among  the  Avataras  of  Yishwu.  {See  Avatara.) 
This  attribution  of  the  form  of  a  boar  to  Brahma  (Prajapati) 
had  been  before  made  by  the  *Satapatha  Brahmawa,  which  also 
says,  "  Having  assumed  the  form  of  a  tortoise,  Prajapati  created 
offspring."  The  Linga  Purawa  is  quite  exceptional  among  the 
later  works  in  ascribing  the  boar  form  to  Brahma.  The  Maha- 
bharata  represents  Brahma  as  springing  from  the  navel  of 
Vishmi  or  from  a  lotus  which  grew  thereout ;  hence  he  is  called 
Xabhi-ja,  'navel-born;'  Kanja,  'the  lotus;'  Sarojin,  'having  a 
lotus;'  Abja-ja,  Abja-yoni,  and  Kanja-ja,  'lotus-born.'  This 
is,  of  course,  the  view  taken  by  the  Vaish?iavas.  The  same 
statement  appears  in  the  Eamayawa,  although  this  poem  gives 
Brahma  a  more  prominent  place  than  usual.  It  represents 
Brahma  as  informing  Ila,ma  of  his  divinity,  and  of  his  calling 
him  to  heaven  in  "the  glory  of  Vish^m."  He  bestowed  boons 
on  Rama  while  that  hero  was  on  earth,  and  he  extended  his 
favours  also  to  Rava7ia  and  other  Rakshasas  who  were  descen- 
dants of  his  son  Pulastya.  In  the  Purilwas  also  he  appears  as  a 
patron  of  the  enemies  of  the  gods,  and  it  was  by  his  favour  that 
the  Daitya  King  Bali  obtained  that  almost  universal  dominion 
which  required  the  incarnation  of  Vishwu  as  the  dwarf  to  repress. 
He  is  further  represented  in  the  Riimaya^ia  as  the  creator  of  the 
T)eautiful  Alialya,  whom  he  gave  as  wife  to  the  sage  Gautama. 
Brahma,  being  thus  inferior  to  Vishnu,  is  represented  as  giving 
homage  and  praise  to  Vislmu  himself  and  to  his  form  K?'/sh?ia, 
but  tlie  Vaish?iava  autliorities  make  him  superior  to  Rudrn, 
who,  they  say,  sprang  from  his  foreliead.     The  ^Saiva  authorities 


BRAHMA— BRAHMAN.  59 

make  Maha-deva  or  Rudra  to  be  tlie  creator  of  Brahma,  and 
represent  Brahma  as  worshipping  the  Linga  and  as  acting  as 
the  charioteer  of  Rudra. 

Brahma  was  the  father  of  Daksha,  who  is  said  to  have  sprung 
from  his  thumb,  and  he  was  present  at  the  sacrifice  of  that 
patriarch,  which  was  rudely  disturbed  by  Rudra.  Then  he  had 
to  humbly  submit  and  appease  the  offended  god.  The  four 
Ivumaras,  the  chief  of  whom  was  called  Sanat-kumara  or  by  the 
patronymic  Vaidliatra,  were  later  creations  or  sons  of  Brahma. 

Brahma  is  also  called  Yidlii,  Vedhas,  Druhi?ia,  and  Srash/y  /, 
'creator;'  Dhatn  and  Yidhatn,  'sustainer;'  Pitamaha,  'the 
great  father ; '  Lokesa,  '  lord  of  the  world ; '  Paramesh/a, 
'supreme  in  heaven;'  Sanat,  'the  ancient;'  Adi-kavi,  'the 
first  poet ; '  and  Drii-ghawa,  'the  axe  or  mallet.' 

BRAHMACHARl.     The  Brahman  student.     See  Brahman. 

BRAHMADIKAS.     The  Prajapatis  (q.v.). 

BRAHMA- GUPTA.  An  astronomer  who  composed  the 
Brahma-gupta  Siddhanta  in  A.D.  628. 

BRAHMA-LOKA.     See  Loka, 

BRAHMAN".  The  first  of  the  four  castes;  the  sacerdotal 
class,  the  members  of  which  may  be,  but  are  not  necessarily, 
priests.  A  Brahman  is  the  chief  of  all  created  beings ;  his  per- 
son is  inviolate ;  he  is  entitled  to  all  honour,  and  enjoys  many 
rights  and  privileges.  The  >S'atapatha  Brahmawa  declares  that 
"  there  are  two  kinds  of  gods ;  first  the  gods,  then  those  who 
are  Brahmans,  and  have  learnt  the  Veda  and  repeat  it :  they  are 
human  gods."  The  chief  duty  of  a  Brahman  is  the  study  and 
teaching  of  the  Vedas,  and  the  performance  of  sacrifices  and 
other  religious  ceremonies ;  but  in  modern  times  many  Brahmans 
entirely  neglect  these  duties,  and  they  engage  in  most  of  the 
occupations  of  secular  life.  Under  the  law  of  Manu,  the  life 
of  a  Brahman  Avas  divided  into  four  a.sramas  or  stages  : — 

1.  Brahmachdrl. — The  student,  whose  duty  was  to  pass  his 
days  in  humble  and  obedient  attendance  upon  his  sp)iritual 
preceptor  in  the  study  of  the  A-^edas. 

2.  Griliastha.  —  The  householder ;  the  married  man  living 
with  his  wife  as  head  of  a  family  engaged  in  the  ordinary  duties 
of  a  Brahman,  reading  and  teaching  the  Yedas,  sacrificing  and 
assisting  to  sacrifice,  bestowing  alms  and  receiving  alms. 

3.  Vdnap'asfha. — The  anchorite,  or  "  dweller  in  the  woods," 


6o  BRAHMANA. 

who,  liaving  discharged  his  duties  as  a  man  of  the  world,  has 
retired  into  the  forest  to  devote  himself  to  self-denial  in  food 
and  raiment,  to  mortifications  of  various  kinds,  to  religious 
meditation,  and  to  the  strict  performance  of  all  ceremonial 
duties. 

4.  Sannydsl. — The  religious  mendicant,  who,  freed  from  all 
forms  and  observances,  wandors  about  and  subsists  on  alms, 
practising  or  striving  for  that  condition  of  mind  which,  heedless 
of  the  joys  and  j)ains,  cares  and  troubles  of  the  flesh,  is  intent 
only  upon  the  deity  and  final  absorption. 

The  divisions  and  subdivisions  of  the  Brahman  caste  are  almost 
innumerable.  It  must  suffice  here  to  notice  the  great  divisions 
of  north  and  south,  the  Pancha  Gauc/a  and  the  Pancha  Dravif/a. 
The  five  divisions  of  Gau<:/a,  or  Bengal,  are  the  Brahmans  of — 
I.  Kanyakubja,  Kanauj  ;  2.  Saraswata,  the  north-west,  about  the 
Saraswati  or  Sarsiiti  river;  3.  Gaur?a;  4.  Mithila,  ISTorth  Bihar; 
5.  Utkala,  Orissa.  The  Pancha  Dravif/a  are  the  Brahmans  of 
— I.  Maha-rash/ra,  the  Mahratta  country;  2.  Telinga,  the  Telugu 
country ;  3.  Dravi(Za,  the  Tamil  country ;  4.  Karna/a,  the  Cana- 
rese  country ;  5.  Giirjjara,  Guzerat. 

BEAHMAiVA.  '  Belonging  to  Brahmans.'  Works  composed 
by  and  for  Brahmans.  That  part  of  the  Veda  which  was  intended 
for  the  use  and  guidance  of  Brahmans  in  the  use  of  the  hymns 
of  the  Mantra,  and  therefore  of  later  production ;  but  the  Brah- 
mana,  equally  with  the  Mantra,  is  held  to  be  /S'ruti  or  revealed 
word.  Excepting  its  claim  to  revelation,  it  is  a  Hindu  Talmud. 
The  Brrdimawa  collectively  is  made  up  of  the  different  Brrdimawas, 
which  are  ritualistic  and  liturgical  writings  in  prose.  They  con- 
tain the  details  of  the  Vedic  ceremonies,  with  long  explanations 
of  their  origin  and  meaning ;  they  give  instructions  as  to  the  use 
of  particular  verses  and  metres  ;  and  they  abound  with  curious 
legends,  divine  and  human,  in  illustration.  In  them  are  found 
"  the  oldest  rituals  we  have,  the  oldest  linguistic  explanations, 
the  oldest  traditional  narratives,  and  the  oldest  philoso^^hical 
speculations."  As  literary  productions  they  are  not  of  a  high 
order,  but  some  "  striking  thoughts,  bold  expressions,  sound 
reasoning,  and  curious  traditions  are  found  among  the  mass  of 
pedantry  and  grandiloquence."  Each  of  the  Sanhitiis  or  collec- 
tion of  hymns  has  its  Brahma/zas,  and  these  generally  maintain 
the  essential  character  of  the  Veda  to  which  they  belong.     Thus 


BRAHMANASAPTI— BRAHMA  PURANA.  6i 

the  BrahmaTzas  of  the  Big  are  specially  devoted  to  the  duties  of 
the  Hotri,  who  recites  the  richas  or  verses,  those  of  the  Yajur  to 
the  performance  of  the  sacrifices  by  the  Adhwaryn,  and  those  of 
the  Saman  to  the  chaunting  by  the  Udgatri.  The  Big  has  the 
Aitarej^a  Brahma?za,  which  is  perhaps  the  oldest,  and  may  date 
as  far  back  as  the  seventh  century  b.  c.  This  is  sometimes  called 
Aswalayana.  It  has  another  called  Kaushitaki  or  /S'ankhayana. 
The  Taittiriya  Sanhita  of  the  Yajur-veda  has  the  Taittiriya 
Brahma?ia,  and  the  Yajasaneyi  Sanhita  has  the  iS'atapatha  Brah- 
mawa,  one  of  the  most  important  of  all  the  Brahma^ias.  The 
Sama-veda  has  eight  BrahmaTias,  of  which  the  best  known  are 
the  Praucflia  or  Pancha-vin^a,  the  TRndja,  and  the  Sha/i-vinsa. 
The  Atharva  has  only  one,  the  Gopatha  Bra,lima?ia.  In  their 
fullest  extent  the  Brahma?ias  embrace  also  the  treatises  called 
AraTzyakas  and  Upanishads. 

BKAHMANASPATI.  A  Vedic  equivalent  of  the  name  Brl- 
haspati. 

BRAHMAiVDA  PURAiVA.  "  That  which  has  declared,  in 
12,200  verses,  the  magnificence  of  the  egg  of  Brahma,  and  in 
which  an  account  of  the  future  kalpas  is  contained,  is  called 
the  Brahma72t?a  Pura^za,  and  was  revealed  by  Brahma."  This 
PuraTia,  like  the  Skanda,  is  "  no  longer  procurable  in  a  collective 
body,"  but  is  represented  by  a  variety  of  Khawc^as  and  Maha- 
tmj^as  professing  to  be  derived  from  it.  The  Adhyatma  Rama- 
yaTza,  a  very  popular  work,  is  considered  to  be  a  part  of  this 
PuraTza. 

BRAHMAA"!.  The  female  form,  or  the  daughter  of  Brahma, 
also  called  A^ata-riipa  (q.v.). 

BRAHMA-PURA.  The  city  of  Brahma.  The  heaven  of 
Brahma,  on  the  summit  of  ]\Iount  Meru,  and  enclosed  by  the 
river  Ganga. 

BRAHMA  PURAiVA.  In  all  the  lists  of  the  PuraTzas  the 
Brahma  stands  first,  for  which  reason  it  is  sometimes  entitled 
the  Adi  or  "  Pirst "  Pura?za.  It  was  repeated  by  Brahma  to 
MarTchi,  and  is  said  to  contain  10,000  stanzas,  but  the  actual 
number  is  between  7000  and  Sooo.  It  is  also  called  the  Saura 
Pura?za,  because  "  it  is,  in  great  part,  appropriated  to  the  worship 
of  Siirya,  the  sun."  "  The  early  chapters  give  a  description  of 
the  creation,  an  account  of  the  Manwantaras,  and  the  history 
of  the  Solar  and  Lunar  dynasties  to  the  time  of  Krish?za  in  a 


62  BRAHMA   VAIVARTA  PURANA. 

summary  manner,  and  in  words  "vvliicb.  are  common  to  it  and 
several  other  Pura/ias.  A  brief  description  of  the  universe 
succeeds ;  and  then  come  a  number  of  chapters  relating  to  the 
holiness  of  Orissa,  with  its  temples  and  sacred  groves,  dedicated 
to  the  sun,  to  /S'iva,  and  Jagan-natha,  the  latter  especially.  These 
chapters  are  characteristic  of  this  Purawa,  and  show  its  main 
object  to  be  the  promotion  of  the  worship  of  Krishna  as  Jagan- 
natha.  To  these  particulars  succeeds  a  life  of  Iv7'ish7ia,  which  is 
word  for  word  the  same  as  that  of  the  Yish/iu  Pura?ia ;  and  the 
compilation  terminates  with  a  particular  detail  of  the  mode  in 
which  Yoga  or  contemplative  devotion,  the  object  of  wliich  is 
still  VishTiu,  is  to  be  performed.  There  is  little  in  this  which 
corresponds  with  the  definition  of  a  Pancha-laksha?2a  Pura??a,  and 
the  mention  of  the  temples  of  Orissa,  the  date  of  the  original 
construction  of  which  is  recorded,  shows  that  it  could  not  have 
been  compiled  earlier  than  the  thirteenth  or  fourteenth  century." 
This  Pura?ia  has  "  a  supplementary  or  concluding  section  called 
the  Brahmottara  Pura?za,  which  contains  about  3000  stanzas. 
This  bears  still  more  entirely  the  character  of  a  Mahatmya  or 
local  legend,  being  intended  to  celebrate  the  sanctity  of  the 
Balaja  river,  conjectured  to  be  the  same  as  the  Banas  in  Marwar. 
There  is  no  clue  to  its  date,  but  it  is  clearly  modern,  grafting 
personages  and  fictions  of  its  own  invention  on  a  few  hints  from 
older  authorities." — Wilson. 

BEAHMARSHI-DEaS'A.  "  Kurukshetra,  the  Matsyas,  the 
Panchalas,  and  the  Surasenas.  This  land,  wliich  comes  to 
Brahmavartta,  is  the  land  of  Brahmarshis. " — Manu. 

BRAHMARSHIS.  it/shis  of  the  Brahman  caste,  who  were 
the  founders  of  the  gotras  of  Brahmans,  and  dwell  in  the  sphere 
of  Brahma.     See  /tishi 

BRAHMA-SAVARAT.     The  tenth  Manu.     See  Manu. 

BRAH]\1A  SUTRAS.  Aphorisms  on  the  Vedanta  philosophy 
by  Badaraya?ia  or  Yyasa.  They  are  also  called  Brahma  Mimansa 
Siitras.  They  are  in  course  of  translation  by  the  Rev.  K.  M. 
Banerjea  in  the  Blhliotheca  Indica. 

BRAPBIA  YAIYARTA  PURAAA.  "  That  Pura7?a  which 
is  related  by  SavarTii  to  Narada,  and  contains  the  account  of  the 
greatness  of  Krishy^a,  with  the  occurrences  of  the  Rathantara- 
kalpa,  where  also  the  story  of  Brahma-varaha  is  repeatedly  told, 
is  caUed  the   Brahma   Yaivarta  Purawa,    and   contains   18,000 


BRAHMAVARTTA—BRIHASPA  TI.  63 

stanzas."  The  copies  known  ratlier  exceed  this  number  of 
stanzas,  but  the  contents  do  not  answer  to  this  description. 
"  The  character  of  the  work  is  so  decidedly  sectarial,  and  the 
sect  to  which  it  belongs  so  distinctly  marked — that  of  the  wor- 
shippers of  the  juvenile  K?'/sh7ia  and  Kadlia,  a  form  of  belief  of 
known  modern  origin  " — that  it  must  be  a  production  of  a  com- 
paratively late  date.  A  specimen  of  the  text  and  translation  has 
been  published  by  Stenzler. 

BRAHMA YARTTA.  "Between  the  two  divine  rivers, 
SaraswatI  and  Dr ishadwati,  lies  the  tract  of  land  which  the 
sages  have  named  Brahmavartta,  because  it  was  frequented  by 
the  gods." — Manu,  ii.  17. 

BRAHMA- YED A.  A  name  given  to  the  Atharvan  or  fourth 
Yeda,  the  Yeda  of  prayers  and  charms. 

BRAHMA-YUGA.  'The  age  of  Brahmans.'  The  first  or 
Knta-yuga.     See  Yuga. 

BRAHMOTTARA  PURAYA.     See  Brahma  Purawa. 

BEIRAI)  ARAi\^YAKA,  Bi?/HAD  IJPANISHAD.  The 
B?'iliad  Ara?i,yaka  Upanishad  belongs  to  the  /S'atapatha  Brah- 
mawa,  and  is  ascribed  to  the  sage  Yajnawalkya.  It  has  been 
translated  by  Dr.  Roer,  and  published  in  the  Bibliotheca  Inclica. 
See  Arawyaka  and  Yajnawalkya. 

Bi^/HAD-DEYATA.  An  ancient  work  in  slokas  by  the 
sage  /S'aunaka,  which  enumerates  and  describes  the  deity  or 
deities  to  which  each  hymn  and  verse  of  the  i^ig-veda  is 
addressed.  It  frequently  recites  legends  in  support  of  its  attri- 
butions. 

B^/HAD-RATHA.  The  tenth  and  last  king  of  the  Maurya 
dynasty,  founded  by  Chandragupta. 

Bi^/HAX  NARADIYA  PURAYA.     See  ^rada  Pura?za. 

Bit/HASPATI.  In  the  J?ig-veda  the  names  B?7haspati 
and  Brahmanaspati  alternate,  and  are  equivalent  to  each  other. 
They  are  names  "  of  a  deity  in  whom  the  action  of  the  wor- 
shipper upon  the  gods  is  personified.  He  is  the  suppliant,  the 
sacrificer,  the  priest,  who  intercedes  with  gods  on  behalf  of  men 
and  protects  mankind  against  the  wicked.  Hence  he  appears  as 
the  prototype  of  the  priests  and  priestly  order;  and  is  also 
designated  as  the  Purohita  (family  priest)  of  the  divine  com- 
munity. He  is  called  in  one  place  'the  father  of  the  gods,'  and 
a  widely  extended  creative  power  is  ascribed  to  him.     He  is 


64  BRIHASPATI—BUDHA. 

also  designated  as  'the  sliining'  and  'the  gold-coloured,'  and  as 
'  havino:  the  thunder  for  his  voice.' " 

In  later  times  he  is  a  i^/shi.     lie  is  also  regent  of  the  planet 
Jupiter,  and  the  name  is  commonly  used  for  the  planet  itself. 
In  this  character  his  car  is  called  Niti-ghosha  and  is  drawn  by- 
eight  pale  horses.     He  was  son  of  the  iti'shi  Angiras,  and  he  bears 
the  patronymic  Angirasa.     As  preceptor  of  the  gods  he  is  called 
Animishacharya,  Chakshas,  Ijya,  and  Indrejya.     His  wife,  Tara, 
was  carried  off  by  Soma,  the  moon,  and  this  gave  rise  to  a  war 
called  the  Taraka-maya.     Soma  was  aided  by  Usanas,  Eudra,  and 
all  the  Daityas  and  Danavas,  while  Indra  and  the  gods  took  the 
part  of  Brdiaspati.      "  Earth,  shaken  to  her  centre,"  appealed  to 
Brahma,  who  interposed  and  restored  Tara  to  her  husband.     She 
was  delivered  of  a  son  which  Br/haspati  and  Soma  both  claimed, 
but  Tara,  at  the  command  of  Brahma  to  tell  the  truth,  declared 
Soma  to  be  the  father,  and  the  cliild  was  named  Budlia.     There 
is  an  extraordinary  story  in  the  Matsya  and  Bhagavata  Purawas 
of  the  itishis  having  milked  the  earth  through  Brihaspati.     {See 
Vish?iu  Pura7ia,   i.   pp.    i88,    190.)     Brdiaspati  was  father  of 
Bharadwaja  by  Mamata,  wife  of  Utathya.     {See  Bharadwaja,) 
An  ancient  code  of  law  bears  the  name  of  BrHiaspati,  and  he  is 
also  represented  as  being  the  Yyasa  of  the  "  fourth,  Dwapara 
age."     There  was  a  itislii  of  the  name  in  the  second  Manwan- 
tara,  and  one  who  was  founder  of  an  heretical  sect.     Other  epi- 
thets of  B)-diaspati  are  Jiva,  '  the  living,'  Didivis,  '  the  bright,' 
DhishaTia,  'the  intelligent,'  and,  for  his  eloquence,   Gish-pati, 
'  lord  of  speech.' 

Bit/HAT-KATHA.  A  large  collection  of  tales,  the  original 
of  the  Katha-sarit-sagara  (q.v.). 

Bi^/HAT-SANHITA.  A  celebrated  work  on  astronomy  by 
Yaraha  Miliira.  It  has  been  printed  by  Kern  in  the  Bihliotheca 
Indica,  who  has  also  published  a  translation  in  Jour.  B.  A.  S. 
for  1870  and  following  years. 

BUDDHxi.  Gotama  Buddha,  the  founder  of  Buddhism. 
VisliTiu's  ninth  incarnation.     See  Avatara. 

BUDHA.  'Wise,  intelligent'  The  planet  Mercury,  son  of 
Soma,  the  moon,  by  Rohi?iI,  or  by  Tiirfi,  wife  of  B^/haspati.  (See 
B7-ihaspati.)  He  married  Ha,  daughter  of  the  ]\Ianu  Vaivaswata, 
and  by  her  had  a  son,  Pururavas.  Budha  was  author  of  a  liymn 
in  the  itig-veda.     {See  Ha.)     Prom  his  parents  he  is  called 


CHAITANYA-CHANDRODA  YA—CIIAMUNDA.     65 

Saiimya  and  Raiiliineya,  He  is  also  called  PraliarsliaTza,  Rod- 
hana,  Tunga,  and  AS'yamanga,  'black-bodied.'  The  intrigue  of 
Soma  with  Tara  was  the  cause  of  a  great  quarrel,  in  which  the 
gods  and  the  Asuras  fought  against  each  other.  Brahma  com- 
pelled Soma  to  give  up  Tara,  and  when  she  returned  to  her 
husband  she  was  pregnant.  A  son  was  born,  who  was  so  beau- 
tiful that  B?'zhaspati  and  Soma  both  claimed  him.  Tara  for  a 
long  time  refused  to  tell  his  paternity,  and  so  excited  the  wrath 
and  nearly  incurred  the  curse  of  her  son.  At  length,  upon  the 
command  of  Brahma,  she  declared  Soma  to  be  the  father,  and 
he  gave  the  boy  the  name  of  Budha.  This  name  is  distinct 
from  Buddha. 

CHAIT ANYA-CHANDRODAYA.  '  The  rise  of  the  moon 
of  Chaitanya.'  A  drama  in  ten  acts  by  Kavi-kar?ia-pura.  It  is 
published  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica.  Chaitanya  was  a  modern 
Vaishwava  reformer,  accounted  an  incarnation  of  l\.Tishna. 

CHAITRA-RATHA.  The  grove  or  forest  of  Kuvera  on 
Mandara,  one  of  the  spurs  of  Meru ;  it  is  so  called  from  its  being 
cultivated  by  the  gandharva  Chitra-ratha. 

CHAKORA.  A  kind  of  partridge.  A  fabulous  bird,  supposed 
to  live  upon  the  beams  of  the  moon. 

CHAKRA-YARTI.  A  universal  emperor,  described  by  the 
YisliTiu  Pura?^a  as  one  who  is  born  with  the  mark  of  Yish/iu's 
discus  visible  in  his  hand ;  but,  Wilson  observes,  "  the  gram- 
matical etymology  is,  '  He  who  abides  in  or  rules  over  an  exten- 
sive territory  called  a  Chakra,'" 

CHAKSHUSHA.     The  sixth  Manu.     See  Manu. 

CHAMPA.      Son  of  Prithu-laksha,   a  descendant  of  Yayati, 
through   his    fourth   son,    Anu,    and   founder    of   the    city   of 
Champa. 

CHAMPA,  CHAMPAYATI,  CHAMPA-MALINI,  CHAM- 
PA-PURL The  capital  city  of  the  country  of  Anga.  Traces  of 
it  still  remain  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Bhagalpur.  It  was  also 
called  Malinl,  from  its  being  surrounded  with  champaka  trees 
as  with  a  garland  (maid).  It  is  said  to  have  derived  its  name 
from  Champa,  its  founder,  but  the  abundant  champaka  trees 
may  assert  a  claim  to  its  designation. 

CHAMTJiYDA.  An  emanation  of  the  goddess  Durga,  sent 
forth  from  her  forehead  to  encounter  the  demons  ChaTz^a  and 
'Munch.     She  is  thus  described  in  the  MarkawtZeya  Purana : — 

E 


66  CHANAKY A— CHANDRA-GUPTA. 

"  From  the  foreliead  of  Ambika  (Durga),  contracted  with  wrath- 
ful frowns,  sprang  swiftly  forth  a  goddess  of  black  and  formid- 
able aspect,  armed  with  a  scimitar  and  noose,  bearing  a  ponde- 
rous mace,  decorated  with  a  garland  of  dead  corses,  robed  in  the 
hide  of  an  elephant,  dry  and  withered  and  hideous,  with  yawning 
mouth,  and  loUing  tongue,  and  bloodshot  eyes,  and  filling  the 
regions  with  her  shouts. "  "When  she  had  killed  the  two  demons, 
she  bore  their  heads  to  Durga,  who  told  her  that  she  should 
henceforth  be  known,  by  a  contraction  of  their  names,  as  Cha- 
munda. 

CHAiVAKYA.  A  celebrated  Brahman,  who  took  a  leading 
part  in  the  destruction  of  the  Nandas,  and  in  the  elevation  of 
Chandra-gupta  to  their  throne.  He  was  a  great  master  of  finesse 
and  artifice,  and  has  been  called  the  Machiavelli  of  India.  A 
work  upon  morals  and  polity  called  Cha?iakya  Siitra  is  ascribed 
to  him.  He  is  the  chief  character  in  the  drama  called  Mudra- 
rakshasa,  and  is  known  also  by  the  names  Vish/iu-gupta  and 
Kau^il3"a.     His  maxims  have  been  translated  by  Weber. 

CHAA^Z>A,  CRANDl.  The  goddess  Durga,  especially  in  the 
form  she  assumed  for  the  destruction  of  the  Asura  called 
Mahisha. 

CHAiVi)I-MAHATMYA,  CHAA^Z>IKA-MAHATMYA  The 
same  as  the  Chawc?ipa^ha. 

CKANDlFAT,  CRANDIFATRA.  A  poem  of  700  verses, 
forming  an  episode  of  the  Markam?eya  Pura7za.  It  cele- 
brates Durga's  victories  over  the  Asuras,  and  is  read  daily  in 
the  temples  of  that  goddess.  The  work  is  also  called  Devi- 
mahatmya.     It  has  been  translated  by  Foley  and  by  Burnouf. 

CHANDRA  The  moon,  either  as  a  planet  or  a  deity.  See 
Soma. 

CHANDRA-GUPTA  This  name  was  identified  by  Sir  W. 
Jones  with  the  Sandracottus  or  Sandrocyptus  mentioned  by 
Arrian  and  the  other  classical  historians  of  Alexander's  cam- 
paign ;  and  somewhat  later  on  as  having  entered  into  a  treaty 
with  Seleucus  Nicator  througli  the  ambassador  Mcgasthenes. 
The  identification  has  been  contested,  but  the  chief  writers  on 
Indian  antiquities  have  admitted  it  as  an  established  fact,  and 
have  added  confirmatory  evidence  from  various  sources,  so  that 
the  identity  admits  of  no  reasonable  doubt.  This  identifica- 
tion is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  Indian  chronology;  it  is  the 


CHANDRA-GUPTA.  67 

only  link  by  which  Indian  history  is  connected  with  that  of 
Greece,  and  everything  in  Indian  chronology  depends  upon  the 
date  of  Chandra-gupta  as  ascertained  from  that  assigned  to  San- 
dracottiis  by  the  classical  writers.  His  date,  as  thus  discovered, 
shows  that  he  began  to  reign  in  315  B.C.,  and  as  he  reigned 
twenty-four  years,  his  reign  ended  in  291  b.c.  Chandra-gupta  is 
a  prominent  name  in  both  Brahmanical  and  Buddhist  writings, 
and  his  accession  to  the  throne  is  the  subject  of  the  drama 
Mudra-rak  shasa. 

When  Alexander  was  in  India,  he  learned  that  a  king  named 
Xandrames  reigned  over  the  Prasii  (Prachyas)  at  the  city  of 
Palibothra,  situated  at  the  confluence  of  the  Ganges  and  another 
river  called  Erranaboas  (the  Sone).  At  this  time,  Sandracottus 
was  young,  but  he  waged  war  against  Alexander's  captains,  and 
he  raised  bands  of  robbers,  with  whose  help  he  succeeded  in 
establishing  freedom  in  India. 

Hindu  and  Buddliist  writers  are  entirely  silent  as  to  Alex- 
ander's appearance  in  India,  but  they  show  that  Chandra-gupta 
overthrew  the  dynasty  of  the  Nandas,  which  reigned  over 
Magadha,  and  "estabhshed  freedom  in  India  by  the  help  of 
bands  of  robbers."  He  established  himself  at  Pa^ali-putra, 
the  capital  of  the  ISTandas,  which  is  identical  with  the  Greek 
Palibothra,  and  this  has  been  shown  to  be  the  modern  Patna. 
That  town  does  not  now  stand  at  the  confluence  of  two  rivers, 
but  the  rivers  in  the  alluvial  plains  of  Bengal  frequently 
change  their  courses,  and  a  change  in  the  channel  of  the  Sone 
has  been  established  by  direct  geographical  evidence.  There  is 
a  difliculty  about  Xandrames.  This  is  no  doubt  the  Sanskrit 
Chandramas,  which  some  consider  to  be  only  a  shorter  form  of 
the  name  Chandra-gupta,  while  others  point  out  that  the  Greek 
references  indicate  that  Xandrames  was  the  predecessor  of  San- 
dracottus, rather  than  Sandracottus  himself. 

The  dynasty  of  the  JSTandas  that  reigned  over  Magadha  are 
frequently  spoken  of  as  the  "  nine  Nandas,"  meaning  apparently 
nine  descents ;  but  according  to  some  authorities  the  last  ISTanda, 
named  Maha-padma,  and  his  eight  sons,  are  intended.  Mahii- 
padma  Nanda  was  the  son  of  a  /Siidra,  and  so  by  law  he  was  a 
^iidra  himself.  He  was  powerful  and  ambitious,  cruel  and  avari- 
cious. His  people  were  disafi'ected ;  but  his  fall  is  represen- 
ted as  having  been  brought  about  by  the  Brahman  Chawakya. 


68  CHANDRA-GUPTA— CHANDRA-VANSA. 

Cliandra-giipta  was  then  raised  to  the  throne  and  founded  the 
Mauryan  djTiasty,  the  third  king  of  which  was  the  great  Asoka, 
grandson  of  Chandra-giipta.  The  Erahmans  and  Buddliists 
are  widely  at  variance  as  to  the  origin  of  the  Maurya  family. 
The  drama  Miidra-rakshasa  represents  Chandra-gupta  as  being 
related  to  Maha-padma  JSTanda,  and  the  commentator  on  the 
yisli?^u  PiiraTia  says  that  he  was  a  son  of  JSTanda  by  a  woman  of 
low  caste  named  j\Iura,  wherefore  he  and  his  descendants  were 
called  Mauryas.  This  looks  very  like  an  etymological  invention, 
and  is  inconsistent  with  the  representation  that  the  low  caste  of 
Nanda  was  one  cause  of  his  deposition  ;  for  were  it  true,  the 
low-caste  king  would  have  been  supplanted  by  one  of  still  lower 
degree.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Buddhists  contend  that  the 
Mauryas  belonged  to  the  same  family  as  Buddha,  who  was  of  the 
royal  family  of  the  ^akj'as.  The  question  of  the  identification 
of  Sandracottus  and  Chandra-gupta  has  been  discussed  at  length 
by  Wilson  in  the  preface  to  the  Mudra-rakshasa  in  his  Hindu 
Theatre,  and  in  the  Yish?m  Purawa,  vol.  iv.  p.  185  ;  also  by 
Max  Miiller  in  his  History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature. 

CHANDRA-HASA.  A  prince  of  the  south,  who  lost  his 
parents  soon  after  his  birth,  and  fell  into  a  state  of  destitution, 
but  after  going  through  a  variety  of  adventures  came  to  the 
throne.     See  Wlieeler,  vol.  i.  p.  522. 

CHANDRA-KANT  A.  'The  moon-stone.'  A  gem  or  stone 
supposed  to  be  formed  by  the  congelation  of  the  rays  of  the 
moon ;  a  crystal  is  perhaps  meant.  It  is  supposed  to  exercise  a 
cooling  influence.     So  in  the  Megha-diita — 

"  The  moon's  white  rays  the  smiling  night  illume, 
And  on  the  moon-gem  concentrated  fall. 
That  hangs  in  woven  nets  in  every  Lall ; 
AVhence  cooling  dews  upon  the  fair  descend, 
And  life  renewed  to  languid  nature  lend." 

It  is  also  called  Mam-chaka. 

CHANDRA-KETU.  i.  A  son  of  Lakshma??a.  2.  A  king 
of  the  city  of  Chakora.     3.  A  country  near  the  Himalayas. 

CHANDRA-YAN.S'A.  The  Lunar  race.  The  lineage  or 
race  which  claims  descent  from  the  moon.  It  is  divided  into 
two  great  branches,  the  Yadavas  and  Pauravas,  respectively 
descended  from  Yadu  and  Puru.  Ivrish?2a  belonged  to  the  line 
of  Yadu,  and  Dushyanta  with  the  Kuru  and  V\xnd\i  princes  to 


CHANDRA-VANSA. 


69 


the  line  of  Puru.     The  following  is  a  list  of  the  Lunar  race  as 
given  in  the  Yishwu  Pura/^a,  but  the  authorities  vary  : — 

The  Lunar  Race. 

Atri,  the  i^/shi. 
Soma,  the  Moon. 
Budha,  Mercury. 
Purtiravas. 
Ayii,  Ayus. 


Nahusha  (and  3  others). 
Yayati  (and  5  others). 


Yadavas. 

Yadu,  eldest. 

Krosh^u  (and  3  others), 

Vr2Jinivat. 

Swahi. 

Rnshadgu. 

Chitraratha. 

/S'asabindu. 

Pr/thusravas  (one  of  a 

milhon  sons). 
Tamas. 
Usanas. 
/S'itejais. 

E,ukmakavacha"> 
or  > 

Ruchaka.  j 

Paravr/t. 
Jyamagha. 
Vidarbha. 
Kratha . 
Kunti. 
VWshwi. 
Nirv?uti. 
Dasarha. 
Vyoman. 
Jimiita. 
Wk.riW. 
Bhimaratha. 
Navaratha. 
Dasaratha. 
^Sakuni. 
Karambhi. 
Devarata. 
Devakshattra. 
Madhu. 
Anavaratha. 
Kuruvatsa. 
Anuratha. 
Puruhotra. 


Fauravas. 

Puru,  youngest  (and  3 

others). 
Janamejaya. 
Prachinvat. 
Pravira. 
Manasyu. 
Abhayada. 
Sudyumna. 
Bahugava. 
Samyati. 
Ahamyati. 
Raudraswa. 
Riteyu  (and  9  others). 
Rantinara. 
Tan5U. 
Anila. 
Dushyanta. 
Bharata. 
Bharadwaja"^ 

or  >  adopted. 

Vitatha        ) 
Bhavanmanyu. 
Brihatkshatra   (and 

many  others). 
Suhotra. 

Hastin  (of  Hastinapur), 
Ajamifiha    (and    2 

others). 
J?*ksha  (and  others). 
Samvarawa. 
Kuru. 
Jahnu  (and  many 

others). 
Suratha. 
Viduratha. 
Sarvabhauma. 
Jayasena. 
Aravin. 


Kings  of  K a.  si 
Kshatravriddha. 
Suhotra. 
Kasa. 
Ka^iraja. 
Dirghatamas. 
Dhanwantari. 
Ketumat. 
Bhimaratha. 
Divodasa. 
Pratardana.         ^ 
Dyiimat. 
/S'atrujit. 
Vatsa. 


i^e'tadhwaja 

or 

Kuvalayaswa. 

Alarka. 

Sannati 

or 

Santati. 

Sunitha. 

Suketu. 

Satyaketu. 

Vibhu. 

Suvibhu. 

Sukumara. 

Dh^'ish^aketu. 


)■ 


70 


CHANDRA-VANSA—CHARAKA. 


The  Lunar  VvXc^—ContiMrd. 


At15U. 

Satwata. 

Andhaka  (and  6  others). 
Bhajamana. 
Viduratha. 
>Sura. 
/S'annn. 

Pratikshattra. 
Swayamblioja. 
Hndika. 
Devamic/husha. 
<Sura. 

Vasudeva  (and  9  others), 
KWshwa  and    Bala- 
rama. 


Kings  of  Kdsi, 
Vainahotra. 

Bharga. 

Bh^rga-bhumi, 


Yddavas.  Pauravas. 

Ayutayus. 

Akrodhana. 

Devatithi. 

i^iksha. 

Dillpa. 

Pratipa. 

/Santanu  (and  2  others). 

Pawf/u.* 

Dh77'tarashfra. 

Yudhi-sh^hira. 

Parikshit. 

Janamejaya. 

^Satanika. 

Aswamedhadatta. 

Adhisimakrishna. 

Nichakru. 
{Extinct.)  Ushwa. 

Chitraratha. 

Vr/shnimat. 

Sushena. 

Sunitha. 

Rich?i. 

NWchakshush. 

Siikhabala. 

Pariplava. 

Sun  ay  a. 

Medhavin. 

Nnpanjaya. 

Mri'du. 

Tigma. 

Bn'hadratha. 

Vasudana. 

/Satanika. 

Udayana. 

Ahinara. 

Khaw^/apam. 

Niramitra. 

Kshemaka. 

CHAiVURA.  A  wrestler  in  the  service  of  Ivansa,  who  was 
killed  by  Krishna. 

CHARAKA.  A  writer  on  medicine  who  lived  in  Vedic 
times.  According  to  his  own  statement,  he  received  the 
materials  of  his  work  from  Agnivesa,  to  whom  they  were  de- 
livered by  Atreya.  A  legend  represents  him  as  an  incarnation 
of  the  serpent  /Sesha.  The  work  was  translated  into  Arabic 
before  the  end  of  the  eighth  century.  The  text  has  been 
printed  in  India. 


*  See  Table  under  Maba-bbarata. 


CHARAKA—CHHANDAS.  yi 

CHAKAKA.     One  of  the  chief  schools  of  the  Yajur-veda. 

CHARAKA-BRAHMAiV^A.  A  Bnihmawa  of  the  Black 
Yajur-veda. 

CHARAiVA.  A  Yedic  school  or  society.  It  is  explained  by 
a  commentator  as  "a  number  of  men  who  are  pledged  to  the 
reading  of  a  certain  /S'akha  of  the  Veda,  and  who  have  in  this 
manner  become  one  body." 

CHARAiVA.S.     Panegyrists.     The  panegyrists  of  the  gods. 

CHARMAA^VATI.     The  river  Chambal. 

CHARU,  CHARU-DEHA,  CHARU-DESHi\^A,  CHARU- 
GUPTA.     Sons  of  Krishwa  and  Rukmim. 

CHARU-DATTA.  The  Brahman  hero  of  the  drama  Mrich- 
chhaka^i. 

CHARU  HASINI.  '  Sweet  smiler.'  This  epithet  is  used  for 
Rukmim  and  for  Lakshmawa,  and  perhaps  for  other  wives  of 
Krishwa. 

CHARU-MATI.     Daughter  of  Kr^shm  and  Rukmim. 

CHAR  YAK  A.  i.  A  Rakshasa,  and  friend  of  Dur-yodhana, 
who  disguised  himself  as  a  Brahman  and  reproached  Yudhi- 
sh^hira  for  his  crimes,  when  he  entered  Hastina-pura  in  triumph 
after  the  great  battle.  The  Brahmans  discovered  the  imposture 
and  reduced  Charvaka  to  ashes  with  the  fire  of  their  eyes.  2. 
A  sceptical  philosopher  who  advocated  materialistic  doctrines. 
He  probably  lived  before  the  composition  of  the  Ramayawa,  and 
is  perhaps  identical  with  the  Charvaka  of  the  ]\Iaha-bharata, 
His  followers  are  called  by  his  name. 

CHATUR-YARVA.     The  four  castes.     See  Yarwa. 

CHEDI.  Name  of  a  people  and  of  their  country,  the  modern 
Chandail  and  Boglekhand.  The  capital  was  /Sukti-mati,  and 
among  the  kings  of  this  country  were  Dama-ghosha  and  ^S'isu-pala. 

CHEKI TANA.  A  son  of  Dhrishi^a-ketu,  Raja  of  the  Ivekayas, 
and  an  ally  of  the  Pawiiavas. 

CHERA.  A  kingdom  in  the  south  of  the  peninsula,  which 
was  absorbed  by  its  rival  the  Chola  kingdom. 

CHHANDAS,  CHHANDO.  Metre.  One  of  the  Yedangas. 
The  oldest  known  work  on  the  subject  is  "  the  ChhandaA-^astra, 
ascribed  to  Pingala,  which  may  be  as  old  as  the  second  century 
B.C."  It  is  published  in  the  Bibl'wtheca  Indica.  The  subject  is 
one  to  which  great  attention  has  been  given  by  the  Hindus  from 
the  earliest  times. 


72  CHHANDOGA—CHITRA-KUTA. 

CHHANDOGA.     A  priest  or  chanter  of  the  Sama-veda. 

CHHANDOGYA.  Xame  of  a  Upanishad  of  the  Sama- 
veda.  {See  Upanishad.)  It  has  been  printed  by  Dr.  Eoer,  and 
it  has  been  translated  into  English  by  Rajendra  Lai,  and  pub- 
lished in  the  Bihlioilieca  Indica.  There  is  also  another  printed 
edition  of  the  text.  The  Chhandogya  Upanishad  consists  of 
eight  out  of  ten  chapters  of  the  Clihandogya  Brahnia?ia  ;  the  first 
two  chapters  are  yet  wanting.  This  work  is  particularly  dis- 
tinguished by  its  rich  store  of  legends  regarding  the  gradual 
development  of  Brahmanical  theology. 

CHHAYA.  'Shade.'  A  handmaid  of  the  sun.  Sanjna,  wife 
of  the  sun,  being  unable  to  bear  the  fervour  of  her  lord,  jDut  her 
handmaid  Chliaya  in  her  place.  The  sun,  believing  Chhaya  to 
be  his  wife,  had  three  children  by  her  :  Sani,  the  planet  Saturn  ; 
the  Manu  Savar?^i ;  and  a  daughter,  the  Tapati  river.  As  mother 
of  Saturn,  Chhaya  is  known  as  ^S'ani-prasii.  The  partiality 
which  she  showed  for  these  children  provoked  Yama,  the  son  of 
Sanjna,  and  he  lifted  his  foot  to  kick  her.  She  cursed  him  to 
have  his  leg  affected  with  sores  and  worms.  This  made  it  clear 
that  she  was  not  Sanjna  and  mother  of  Yama,  so  the  sun  went 
in  search  of  Sanjna  and  brought  her  back.  According  to  one 
PuraTia,  Chhaya  was  a  daughter  of  Yiswakarma,  and  sister  of 
Sanjna,  the  wife  of  the  sun. 

CHINTA-MAA'L  'The  wish-gem.'  A  jewel  which  is  sup- 
posed to  have  the  power  of  granting  all  desires.  The  jjhilo- 
sopher's  stone.  It  is  said  to  have  belonged  to  Brahma,  who  is 
himself  called  by  this  name.     It  is  also  called  Divya-ratna. 

CHIRA-JIVIK  '  Long-lived.'  Gods  or  deified  mortals,  who 
live  for  long  periods. 

CIIITRA-GUPTA.  A  scribe  in  the  abodes  of  tlie  dead, 
who  records  the  virtues  and  vices  of  men.  The  recorder  of 
Yama. 

CHITRA-KUrA.  'Bright-peak.'  The  seat  of  Yrdmlki's  her- 
mitage, in  which  Rama  and  Sita  both  found  refuge  at  diffe- 
rent times.  It  is  the  modern  Chitrakote,  on  the  river  Pisuni, 
about  fifty  miles  south-east  of  Banda  in  Bundelkhand.  It  is  a 
very  holy  place,  and  abounds  with  temples  and  shrines,  to  which 
thousands  annually  resort.  "  The  whole  neighbourhood  is  Rama's 
country.  Every  headland  has  some  legend,  every  cavern  is  con- 
nected with  his  name." — Cast  in  "Calcutta  Review." 


CHITRA-LEKHA—CHYAVANA.  73 

CHITRA-LEKHA.  A  picture.  Name  of  a  nymph  wlio 
was  skilled  in  painting  and  in  the  magic  art.  She  was  the 
friend  and  confidante  of  tJslia.     See  tJsha. 

CHITRANGADA.  The  elder  son  of  King  ^antanu,  and 
brother  of  Bhishma.  He  was  arrogant  and  proud,  and  was 
killed  in  early  life  in  a  conflict  with  a  Gandharva  of  the  same 
name. 

CHITRAXGADA.  Daughter  of  King  Chritra-vaha?za  of 
]Ma7ii-pura,  wife  of  Arjuna  and  mother  of  Babhru-vahana. 

CHITRA-RATHA.  'Having  a  fine  car.'  The  king  of  the 
Gandharvas.     There  are  many  others  known  by  this  name. 

CHITRA-SEI^A.  i.  One  of  the  hundred  sons  of  Dhrita- 
rash/ra.      2.   A  chief  of  the  Yakshas. 

CHITRA-YAJJSTA.  A  modern  drama  in  five  acts  upon  the 
legend  of  Daksha.  It  is  the  work  of  a  Paw^^it  named  Yaidya- 
natha  Yachaspati. 

CHOLA.  A  country  and  kingdom  of  the  south  of  India 
about  Tanjore.  The  country  was  called  Chola-ma?if?ala,  whence 
comes  the  name  CoromandeL 

CHYAYANA,  CHYAYAJSTA.  A  sage,  son  of  the  i^zshi 
BhWgu,  and  author  of  some  hymns. 

In  the  i?ig-veda  it  is  said  that  when  "  Chyavana  had  grown 
old  and  had  been  forsaken,  the  Aswins  divested  him  of  his 
decrepit  body,  prolonged  his  life,  and  restored  him  to  youth, 
making  him  acceptable  to  his  wife,  and  the  husband  of 
maidens."  This  story  is  thus  amj)lified  in  the  /S'atapatha  Brah- 
ma?ia  : — The  sage  Chyavana  assumed  a  shrivelled  form  and 
lay  as  if  abandoned.  The  sons  of  yS^aryata,  a  descendant  of 
Manu,  found  this  body,  and  pelted  it  with  clods.  Chyavana 
was  greatly  incensed,  and  to  appease  him  /Skryata  yoked  his 
chariot,  and  taking  with  him  his  daughter  Su-kanya,  pre- 
sented her  to  Chyavana.  The  Aswins  endeavoured  to  seduce 
her,  but  she  remained  faithful  to  her  shrivelled  husband,  and 
under  his  direction  she  taunted  them  with  being  incomplete 
and  imperfect,  and  consented  to  tell  them  in  what  respect  they 
were  deficient,  if  they  would  make  her  husband  young  again. 
They  directed  that  he  should  bathe  in  a  certain  pond,  and 
having  done  so,  he  came  forth  'with  the  age  that  he  desired.  She 
then  informed  them  that  they  were  imperfect  because  they 
were  excluded  from  a  sacrifice  the  other  gods  were  performing. 


74  CHYA  VAN  A. 

They  departed  and  succeeded  in  getting  admitted  to  join  the 
other  gods. 

According  to  the  ^laha-bharata,  Chyavana  besought  Indra  to 
allow  the  Aswins  to  partake  of  the  libations  of  soma.  Indra 
repHed  that  the  other  gods  might  do  as  they  pleased,  but  he 
would  not  consent.  Chyavana  then  commenced  a  sacrifice  to 
the  Aswins ;  the  other  gods  were  subdued,  but  Indra,  in  a  rage, 
rushed  with  a  mountain  in  one  hand  and  his  thunderbolt  in 
another  to  crush  Chyavana.  The  sage  having  sprinkled  him 
with  water  and  stopped  him,  "  created  a  fearful  open-mouthed 
monster  called  Mada,  having  teeth  and  grinders  of  portentous 
length,  and  jaws  one  of  which  enclosed  the  earth,  the  other  the 
sky;  and  the  gods,  including  Indra,  are  said  to  have  been  at  the 
root  of  his  tongue  like  fishes  in  the  mouth  of  a  sea  monster." 
In  this  predicament  "  Indra  granted  the  demand  of  Chyavana, 
who  was  thus  the  cause  of  the  Aswins  becoming  drinkers  of  the 
soma," 

In  another  part  of  the  Maha-bharata  he  is  represented  as 
exacting  many  menial  offices  from  King  Kusika  and  his  wife, 
but  he  afterwards  rewarded  them  by  "  creating  a  magical  golden 
palace,"  and  predicted  the  birth  of  "  a  grandson  of  great  beauty 
and  heroism  (Parasu-rama)." 

The  ]\Iaha-bharata,  interpreting  his  name  as  signifying  *the 
fallen,'  accounts  for  it  by  a  legend  which  represents  his  mother, 
Puloma,  wife  of  Bh?*;*gu,  as  having  been  carried  off  by  the  demon 
Puloman.  She  was  pregnant,  and  in  her  fright  the  child  fell 
from  her  womb.  The  demon  was  softened,  and  let  the  mother 
depart  with  her  infant. 

The  version  of  the  story  as  told  in  the  Maha-bharata  and 
Purawas  is  that  Chyavana  was  so  absorbed  in  penance  on  the 
banks  of  the  Narmada  that  white  ants  constructed  their  nests 
round  his  body  and  left  only  his  eyes  visible.  Su-kanya,  daughter 
of  King  ^Saryata,  seeing  two  bright  eyes  in  what  seemed  to  be 
an  anthill,  poked  them  with  a  stick.  The  sage  visited  the 
offence  on  fcyata,  and  was  appeased  only  by  the  promise  of  the 
king  to  give  him  Su-kanya  in  marriage.  Subsequently  the 
Aswins,  coming  to  his  hermitage,  compassionated  her  union  with 
so  old  and  ugly  a  husband  as  Chyavana,  and  tried  to  induce  her 
to  take  one  of  them  in  his  place.  When  their  persuasions  failed, 
they  told  her  they  were  the  physicians  of  the  gods,  and  would 


CHYAVANA—DADHYANCH.  75 

restore  her  hiistand  to  youth  and  beauty,  when  she  could  make 
lier  choice  between  him  and  one  of  them.  Accordingly  the  three 
bathed  in  a  pond  and  came  forth  of  like  celestial  beauty.  Each 
one  asked  her  to  be  his  bride,  and  she  recognised  and  chose  her 
own  husband.  Chyavana,  in  gratitude,  compelled  Indra  to  admit 
the  Aswins  to  a  participation  of  the  soma  ceremonial.  Indra  at 
first  objected,  because  the  Aswins  wandered  about  among  men 
as  physicians  and  changed  their  forms  at  will.  But  Chyavana 
was  not  to  be  refused ;  he  stayed  the  arm  of  Indra  as  he  was 
about  to  launch  a  thunderbolt,  and  he  created  a  terrific  demon 
who  was  on  the  point  of  devouring  the  king  of  the  gods  when 
he  submitted. 

According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  Chyavana  was  husband  of 
Arushi  or  Su-kanya  and  father  of  Aurva.  He  is  also  considered 
to  be  the  father  of  Harita. 

The  name  is  Chyavana  in  the  jR?g-veda,  but  Chyavana  in 
the  BrahmaT^a  and  later  writings. 

DADHYANCH,  DADHlCHA  (Dadhicha  is  a  later  form.) 
A  Vedic  itishi,  son  of  Atharvan,  whose  name  frequently  occurs. 
The  legend  about  him,  as  it  appears  in  the  ^^g-veda;  is  that 
Indra  taught  him  certain  sciences,  but  threatened  to  cut  off  his 
head  if  he  taught  them  to  any  one  else.  The  Aswins  prevailed 
upon  Dadhyanch  to  communicate  his  knowledge  to  them,  and, 
to  preserve  him  from  the  wrath  of  Indra,  they  took  off  his  own 
head  and  replaced  it  with  that  of  a  horse.  When  Indra  struck 
off  the  sage's  equine  head  the  Aswins  restored  his  own  to  him. 
A  verse  of  the  itig-veda  says,  "  Indra,  with  the  bones  of  Dadhy- 
anch, slew  ninety  times  nine  Vritras ;"  and  the  story  told  by  the 
scholiast  in  explanation  is,  that  while  Dadhyanch  was  living  on 
earth  the  Asuras  were  controlled  and  tranquillised  by  his  appear- 
ance ;  but  when  he  had  gone  to  heaven,  they  overspread  the 
whole  earth.  Indra  inquired  for  Dadhyanch,  or  any  relic  of 
him.  He  was  told  of  the  horse's  head,  and  when  this  was 
found  in  a  lake  near  Kuru-kshetra,  Indra  used  the  bones  as 
weapons,  and  with  them  slew  the  Asuras,  or,  as  the  words  of 
the  Vedic  verse  are  explained,  he  "  foiled  the  nine  times  ninety 
stratagems  of  the  Asuras  or  Vritras."  The  story  as  afterwards 
told  in  the  Maha-bharata  and  PuraTias  is  that  the  sage  devoted 
himself  to  death  that  Indra  and  the  gods  might  be  armed  with 
his  bones  as  more  effective  weapons  than  thunderbolts  for  the 


76  DAITYAS—DAKSHA. 

destruction  of  Y^i'tra  and  the  Asuras.  According  to  one  account 
he  was  instrumental  in  bring  about  the  destruction  of  "Daksha's 
sacrifice."     See  Daksha. 

DAITYAS.  Titans.  Descendants  from  Diti  by  Kasyapa. 
They  are  a  race  of  demons  and  giants,  who  warred  against  the 
gods  and  interfered  with  sacrifices.  They  were  in  turn  victorious 
and  vanquished.  They  and  the  Danavas  are  generally  associated, 
and  are  hardly  distinguishable.  As  enemies  of  sacrifices  they 
are  called  Kratu-dwishas. 

i)AKIXl.  A  kind  of  female  imp  or  fiend  attendant  upon 
Kah  and  feeding  on  human  flesh.  The  Dakinis  are  also  called 
A^ra-pas,  '  blood  drinkers.' 

DAKSHA.  'Able,  competent,  intelligent.'  This  name 
generally  carries  with  it  the  idea  of  a  creative  power.  Daksha 
is  a  son  of  Brahma;  he  is  one  of  the  Prajapatis,  and  is  some- 
times regarded  as  their  chief.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  doubt 
and  confusion  about  him,  which  of  old  the  sage  Parasara  could 
oidy  account  for  by  saying  that  "  in  every  age  Daksha  and 
the  rest  are  born  and  are  again  destroyed."  In  the  itig-veda  it 
is  said  that  "  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  from  Dak- 
sha." Upon  this  marvellous  mutual  generation  Yaska  in  the 
Nirukta  remarks,  "  How  can  this  be  possible  %  They  may  have 
had  the  same  origin ;  or,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  gods, 
they  may  have  been  born  from  each  other,  and  have  derived 
their  substance  from  each  other."  Eoth's  view  is  that  Aditi  is 
eternity,  and  that  Daksha  (spiritual  power)  is  the  male  energy 
which  generates  the  gods  in  eternity.  In  the  *S'atapatha  Brah- 
mawa,  Daksha  is  identified  with  Prajapati,  the  creator.  As  son 
of  Aditi,  he  is  one  of  the  Adityas,  and  he  is  also  reckoned 
among  the  Yiswadevas. 

According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  Dakslia  sprang  from  the  right 
thumb  of  Brahma,  and  his  wife  from  that  deity's  left  thumb. 
The  Purfmas  adopt  this  view  of  his  origin,  but  state  that  he 
married  Prasiiti,  daughter  of  Priya-vrata,  and  gi'and-daughter  of 
Manu.  By  her  he  had,  according  to  various  statements,  twenty- 
four,  fifty,  or  sixty  daughters.  Tlie  Rrimaya??a  and  Maha- 
bharata  agree  in  the  larger  number ;  and  according  to  Manu  and 
the  Maha-bharata  he  gave  ten  of  his  daughters  to  Dharma  and 
thirteen  to  Ka.syapa,  who  became  tlie  mothers  of  gods  and  de- 
mons, men,  birds,  serpents,  and  all  living  things.     Twenty-seven 


DAKS  HA,  yj 

"were  given  in  marriage  to  Soma,  the  moon,  and  these  became 
the  twenty-seven  Nakshatras  or  lunar  mansions.  One  of  the 
daughters,  named  Sati,  married  >Siva,  and  killed  herself  in  con- 
sequence of  a  quarrel  between  her  husband  and  father.  The 
Kasi  Kha7ic?a  represents  that  she  became  a  sati  and  burnt 
herself. 

Another  legend  of  the  Maha-bharata  and  Purawas  represents 
Daksha  as  being  born  a  second  time,  in  another  Manwantara, 
as  son  of  the  Prachetasas  and  Marisha,  and  that  he  had 
seven  sons,  "the  allegorical  persons  Krodha,  Tamas,  Dama, 
Viknta,  Angiras,  Kardama,  and  Aswa."  This  second  birth  is 
said  to  have  happened  through  his  having  been  cursed  to  it  by 
his  son-in-law  >S'iva.  Daksha  was  in  a  certain  way,  by  his 
mother  Marisha,  an  emanation  of  Soma,  the  moon ;  and  as 
twenty-seven  of  his  daughters  were  married  to  that  luminary, 
Daksha  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  being  both  the  father  and 
the  offspring  of  the  moon,  thus  reiterating  the  duality  of  his 
nature. 

In  the  Hari-vansa  Daksha  appears  in  another  variety  of  his 
character.  According  to  this  authority,  Yish?iu  himself  became 
Daksha,  and  formed  numerous  creatures,  or,  in  other  words,  he 
became  the  creator.  Daksha,  the  first  of  males,  by  virtue  of 
yoga,  himself  took  the  form  of  a  beautiful  woman,  by  whom 
he  had  many  fair  daughters,  whom  he  disposed  of  in  marriage 
in  the  manner  related  by  Manu  and  above  stated. 

An  important  event  in  the  life  of  Daksha,  and  very  fre- 
quently referred  to,  is  "  Daksha's  sacrifice,"  which  was  violently 
interrupted  and  broken  up  by  /S'iva.  The  germ  of  this  story 
is  found  in  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  where  it  is  related  that  the 
gods,  having  excluded  Rudra  from  a  sacrifice,  he  pierced  the 
sacrifice  with  an  arrow,  and  that  Piishan,  attempting  to  eat 
a  portion  of  the  oblation,  broke  his  teeth.  The  story  is  found 
both  in  the  Ramaya?ia  and  Maha-bharata.  According  to  the 
latter,  Daksha  was  engaged  in  sacrifice,  when  ^S'iva  in  a  rage, 
and  shouting  loudly,  pierced  the  ofi'ering  with  an  arrow.  The 
gods  and  Asuras  were  alarmed  and  the  whole  universe  quaked. 
The  ii/shis  endeavoured  to  appease  the  angry  god,  but  in  vain. 
"  He  ran  up  to  the  gods,  and  in  his  rage  knocked  out  the  eyes 
of  Bhaga  with  a  blow,  and,  incensed,  assaulted  Piishan  with 
liis  foot  and  knocked  out  his  teeth  as  he  was  eating  the  offer- 


78  DAKSHA. 

ing."  The  gods  and  itishis  humbly  propitiated  him,  and  when 
he  was  appeased  "  they  apportioned  to  him  a  distinguished  share 
in  the  sacrifice,  and  through  fear  resorted  to  him  as  their  refuge. " 
In  another  part  of  the  same  work  the  story  is  again  told  with 
considerable  variation.  Daksha  instituted  a  sacrifice  and  appor- 
tioned no  share  to  Kudra  (»S'iva).  Instigated  by  the  sage  Dad- 
hlchi,  the  god  hurled  his  blazing  trident,  which  destroyed  the 
sacrifice  of  Daksha  and  fell  with  great  violence  on  the  breast 
of  Narayawa  (Yishwu).  It  was  hurled  back  with  violence  to 
its  owner,  and  a  furious  battle  ensued  between  the  two  gods, 
which  was  not  intermitted  till  Brahma  prevailed  upon  Eudra 
to  propitiate  Karayawa.  That  god  was  gratified,  and  said  to 
Rudra,  "  He  who  knows  thee  knows  me ;  he  who  loves  thee 
loves  me." 

The  story  is  reproduced  in  the  Purawas  with  many  embellish- 
ments. Daksha  instituted  a  sacrifice  to  Yish7^u,  and  many  of 
the  gods  repaired  to  it,  but  iS'iva  was  not  invited,  because  the 
gods  had  conspired  to  deprive  him  of  sacrificial  ofi'erings.  The 
wife  of  >S'iva,  the  mountain  goddess  Uma,  perceived  what  was 
going  on.  Uma  was  a  second  birth  of  Sati,  daughter  of  Daksha, 
who  had  deprived  herself  of  life  in  consequence  of  her  father's 
quarrel  with  herself  and  her  husband,  /S'iva.  Uma  urged  her 
husband  to  display  his  power  and  assert  his  rights.  So  he 
created  Vira-bhadra,  "  a  being  like  the  fire  of  fate,"  and  of  most 
terrific  appearance  and  powers.  He  also  sent  with  him  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  powerful  demigods  whom  he  called  into  exist- 
ence. A  terrible  catastrophe  followed ;  "  the  mountains  tottered, 
the  earth  shook,  the  winds  roared,  and  the  depths  of  the  sea 
were  disturbed."  The  sacrifice  is  broken  up,  and,  in  the  words 
of  Wilson,  "  Indra  is  knocked  down  and  trampled  on,  Yama  has 
his  staff  broken,  Saraswati  and  the  Matris  have  their  noses  cut 
off,  Mitra  or  Bhaga  has  his  eyes  pulled  out,  Pushan  has  his 
teeth  knocked  down  his  throat,  Chandra  (the  moon)  is  pummelled, 
Yahni's  (fire's)  hands  are  cut  off,  Bhrigu  loses  his  beard,  the 
Brahmans  are  pelted  with  stones,  the  Prajapatis  are  beaten,  and 
the  gods  and  demigods  are  run  through  with  swords  or  stuck 
with  arrows."  Daksha  then,  in  great  terror,  propitiated  the 
wrathful  deity  and  acknowledged  his  supremacy.  According  to 
some  versions,  Daksha  himself  was  decapitated  and  his  head 
thrown  into  the  fire.     /S'iva  subsequently  restored  him  and  the 


DAKSHA-SAVARNA—DAMBHODBHA  VA.  79 

other  dead  to  life,  and  as  Daksha's  Tiead  could  not  be  found,  it 
was  replaced  by  that  of  a  goat  or  ram.  The  Hari-van-sa,  in  its 
glorification  of  Vishwu,  gives  a  different  finish  to  the  story.  The 
sacrifice  was  destroyed  and  the  gods  fled  in  dismay,  till  Yishwu 
intervened,  and  seizing  /Siva  by  the  throat,  compelled  him  to 
desist  and  acknowledge  his  master. 

"  This,"  says  Wilson,  "  is  a  legend  of  some  interest,  as  it  is 
obviously  intended  to  intimate  a  struggle  between  the  worship- 
pers of  >5'iva  and  VisliTZu,  in  which  at  first  the  latter,  but  finally 
the  former,  acquired  the  ascendancy." 

Daksha  was  a  lawgiver,  and  is  reckoned  among  the  eighteen 
writers  of  Dharma-5astras. 

The  name  Daksha  was  borne  by  several  other  persons. 

DAKSHA-SAYAEA^A.     The  ninth  Manu.     See  Manu. 

DAKSHAYAATA.  Connected  with  Daksha.  A  son  or  de- 
scendant of  that  sage. 

DAKSHAYAA'l.     A  name  of  Aditi  as  daughter  of  Daksha. 

DAKSHIYA.  A  present  made  to  Brahmans ;  the  honora- 
rium for  the  performance  of  a  sacrifice.  This  is  personified  as  a 
goddess,  to  whom  various  origins  are  assigned. 

DAKSHIYACHAKIS.  Followers  of  the  right-hand  form  of 
»S'akta  worship.     See  Tantra. 

D  AMA.  A  son,  or,  according  to  the  Yishwu  Purawa,  a  grand- 
son of  King  Marutta  of  the  Solar  race.  He  rescued  his  bride 
Su-mana  from  his  rivals,  and  one  of  them,  named  Yapushmat, 
subsequently  killed  Marutta,  who  had  retired  into  the  woods 
after  relinquishing  his  crown  to  his  son.  Dama  in  retaliation 
killed  Yapushmat  and  offered  his  blood  in  the  funeral  rites  of 
Marutta,  while  he  made  an  oblation  of  part  of  the  flesh,  and  with 
the  rest  fed  the  Brahmans  who  were  of  Kakshasa  descent. 

DAMA-GHOSHA.     King  of  Chedi  and  father  of  ^S'isu-pala. 

DAMAYANTI  Wife  of  Nala  and  heroine  of  the  tale  of 
Nala  and  Damayanti.  She  is  also  known  by  her  patronymic 
Bhaimi.     See  Nala. 

DA]\IBHODBHAYA.  A  king  whose  story  is  related  in  the 
Maha-bharata  as  an  antidote  to  pride.  He  had  an  overweening 
conceit  of  his  own  prowess,  and  when  told  by  his  Brahmans  that 
he  was  no  match  for  ISTara  and  Narayawa,  who  were  living  as 
ascetics  on  the  Gandha-madana  mountain,  he  proceeded  thither 
with  his  army  and  challenged  them.     They  endeavoured  to  dis- 


8o  DAMODARA—DARSANA. 

suade  him,  but  lie  insisted  on  fighting.  !N"ara  then  took  a  hand- 
ful of  straws,  and  using  them  as  missiles,  they  whitened  all  the 
air,  and  penetrated  the  eyes,  ears,  and  noses  of  the  assailants, 
until  Dambhodbhava  fell  at  ISTara's  feet  and  begged  for  peace. 

DAMODAEA.  A  name  given  to  Kr?shwa  because  his  foster- 
mother  tried  to  tie  him  up  with  a  rope  (dclma)  round  his  belly 
(udara). 

DAXAVAS.  Descendants  from  Danu  by  the  sage  Kasyapa. 
They  were  giants  who  warred  against  the  gods.     See  Daityas. 

DAiVDA-DHARA.  '  The  rod-bearer.'  A  title  of  Yama,  the 
god  of  death. 

D AiVDAKA.  The  ara^iya  or  forest  of  Dandaka,  lying  between 
the  Godavari  and  ISTarmada.  It  was  of  vast  extent,  and  some 
passages  of  the  Ramayawa  represent  it  as  beginning  immediately 
south  of  the  Yamuna.  This  forest  is  the  scene  of  many  of  Rama 
and  Sita's  adventures,  and  is  described  as  "a  wilderness  over 
which  separate  hermitages  are  scattered,  while  wild  beasts  and 
Rakshasas  everywhere  abound." 

DANTA-YAKTRA.  A  Danava  king  of  Kariisha  and  son  of 
Vriddha-sarma.  He  took  a  side  against  li.rish7ia,  and  was  even- 
tually killed  by  him. 

DAXU.  A  Danava.  Also  the  mother  of  the  Danavas.  The 
demon  Kabandha  (q.v.). 

DARADA.  A  country  in  the  Hindu  Kush,  bordering  on 
Kashmir.  The  people  of  that  country,  "  the  Durds,  are  still 
where  they  were  at  the  date  of  the  text  (of  the  Yish^iu  Purarza) 
and  in  the  days  of  Strabo  and  Ptolemy ;  not  exactly,  indeed,  at 
the  sources  of  the  Indus,  but  along  its  course  above  the  Hima- 
laya, just  before  it  descends  to  India." — Wilson. 

D AREAS.  'Tearers.'  Rakshasas  and  other  destructive 
demons. 

DARDURA.  Name  of  a  mountain  in  the  south ;  it  is 
associated  with  the  Malaya  mountain  in  the  Maha-bharata. 

DARa^ANA.  'Demonstration.'  The  ShacZ-dar^'anas  or  six 
demonstrations,  i.e.,  the  six  schools  of  Hindu  philosophy.  All 
these  schools  have  one  starting-point,  ex  nihilo  nihil  fit ;  and  all 
have  one  and  the  same  final  object,  the  emancipation  of  tlie  soul 
from  future  birth  and  existence,  and  its  absorption  into  the 
supreme  soul  of  the  universe.     These  schools  are  : — 

I.  Nyaya,  founded  by  the  sage  Gotama.     The  word  nyaya 


DARSANA.  8 1 

means  propriety  or  fitness,  the  proper  method  of  arriving  at  a 
conclusion  by  analysis.  This  school  has  been  called  the  Logical 
School,  bnt  the  term  is  applicable  to  its  method  rather  than  to 
its  aims.  It  is  also  said  to  represent  "  the  sensational  aspect  of 
Hindu  philosophy,"  because  it  has  "a  more  pointed  regard  to 
the  fact  of  the  five  senses  than  the  others  have,  and  treats  the 
external  more  frankly  as  a  solid  reahty."  It  is  the  exoteric 
school,  as  the  Yedanta  is  the  esoteric. 

2.  Vaiseshika,  founded  by  a  sage  named  Kawada,  who  lived 
about  the  same  time  as  Gotama.  It  is  supplementary  to  the 
Nyaya,  and  these  two  schools  are  classed  together.  It  is  called 
the  Atomic  School,  because  it  teaches  the  existence  of  a  transient 
world  composed  of  aggregations  of  eternal  atoms. 

Eoth  the  Nyaya  and  Vai^eshika  recognise  a  Supreme  Being. 

3.  Sankhya.  The  Sankhya  and  Yoga  are  classed  together 
because  they  have  much  in  common,  but  the  Sankhya  is  atheis- 
tical, while  the  Yoga  is  theisticaL  The  Sankhya  was  founded 
by  the  sage  Kapila,  and  takes  its  name  from  its  numeral  or  dis- 
criminative tendencies.  The  Sankhya-Karika,  the  text-book  of 
this  school,  has  been  translated  by  Colebrooke  and  Wilson,  and 
part  of  the  aphorisms  of  Kapila  were  translated  for  the  Biblio- 
theca  Indica  by  the  late  Dr.  Eallantyne. 

4.  Yoga.  This  school  was  founded  by  Patanjali,  and  from 
his  name  is  also  called  Patanjala.  It  pursues  the  method  of  tlie 
Sankhya  and  holds  with  many  of  its  dogmas,  but  it  asserts  the 
existence  not  only  of  individual  souls,  but  of  one  all-pervading 
spirit,  which  is  free  from  the  influences  which  aff'ect  otlier  souls. 

5.  Purva-mimansa.  6.  Uttara-mlmansa.  The  prior  and  later 
Mimansas.  These  are  both  included  in  the  general  term  Yedanta, 
but  the  Piirva-mimansa  is  commonly  known  as  the  JMlmansa  and 
the  Uttara-mimansa  as  the  Yedanta,  '  the  end  or  object  of  the 
Yedas.'  The  Piirva-mimansa  was  founded  by  Jaimini,  and  the 
Uttara-mimansa  is  attributed  to  Yyasa,  the  arranger  of  the 
Yedas.  "  The  object  of  both  these  schools  is  to  teach  the  art  of 
reasoning  with  the  express  purpose  of  aiding  the  interpretation 
of  the  Yedas,  not  only  in  the  speculative  but  the  practical  por- 
tion." The  principal  doctrines  of  the  Yedanta  (Uttara)  are  that 
"  God  is  the  omniscient  and  omnipotent  cause  of  the  existence, 
continuance,  and  dissolution  of  the  universe.  Creation  is  an  act 
of  his  will ;  he  is  both  the  efficient  and  the  material  cause  of  the 

F 


82  DARSANA. 

world."  At  the  consummation  of  all  things  all  are  resolved  into 
him.  He  is  "  the  sole-existent  and  universal  soul,"  and  besides 
him  there  is  no  second  principle  ;  he  is  adivaita,  '  without  a 
second.'     *Sankaracharya  was  the  great  apostle  of  this  school 

The  period  of  the  rise  of  these  schools  of  philosophy  is  uncer- 
tain, and  is  entirely  a  matter  of  inference,  but  they  are  probably 
later  than  the  fifth  century  B.C.  The  Yedanta  (Uttara-mimansa) 
is  apparently  the  latest,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been  evoked  by 
the  teachings  of  the  Buddhists.  This  would  bring  it  to  within 
three  or  four  centuries  B.c.  The  other  schools  are  to  all  appear- 
ance older  than  the  Yedanta,  but  it  is  considered  by  some  that 
all  the  schools  show  traces  of  Buddliist  influences,  and  if  so,  the 
dates  of  all  must  be  later.  It  is  a  question  whether  Hindu 
philosophy  is  or  is  not  indebted  to  Greek  teaching,  and  the  later 
the  date  of  the  origin  of  these  schools  the  greater  is  the  possi- 
bihty  of  Greek  influence.  Mr.  Colebrooke,  the  highest  authority 
on  the  subject,  is  of  opinion  that  "  the  Hindus  were  in  this 
instance  the  teachers,  not  the  learners." 

Besides  the  six  schools,  there  is  yet  a  later  system  known  as 
the  Paurawik  and  the  Eclectic  school.  The  doctrines  of  this 
school  are  expounded  in  the  Bhagavad-gita  (q.v.). 

The  merits  of  the  various  schools  have  been  thus  summed  up : — 
"  AYlien  we  consider  the  six  Darsanas,  we  shall  find  that  one  of 
them,  the  Uttara-mimansa,  bears  no  title  to  be  ranked  by  the 
side  of  the  others,  and  is  really  little  more  than  a  mystical 
explanation  of  the  practical  injunctions  of  the  Vedas.  We  shall 
also  admit  that  the  earlier  Vedanta,  very  different  from  the 
school  of  JSTihilists  now  existing  under  that  name,  was  chiefly  a 
controversial  essay,  seeking  to  support  the  theology  of  sacred  writ, 
but  borrowing  all  its  philosophical  portions  from  the  Yoga  school, 
the  most  popular  at  the  time  of  its  composition.  Lastly,  the 
Nyaya  is  little  more  than  a  treatise  on  logic,  introducing  the  doc- 
trines of  the  theistic  Sankhya ;  while  the  A^aiseshika  is  an  essay  on 
I)hysics,  with,  it  is  true,  the  theory  of  atoms  as  its  distinguishing 
mark,  though  even  to  this  we  feel  inclined  to  refuse  the  imputa- 
tion of  novelty,  since  we  find  some  idea  of  it  lurking  obscurely 
in  the  theory  of  subtile  elements  which  is  brought  forward  in 
Kapila's  Sankhya.  In  short,  the  basis  of  aU  Indian  pliilosoi)liy, 
if  indeed  we  may  not  say  the  only  system  of  philosophy  really 
discovered  in  India,  is  the  Sankhya,  and  this  forms  the  basis 


DARUKA—DASARHA.  83 

of  the  doctrines  expounded  in   the  Bhagavad-gita." — Cochhurn 
Thomson. 

Colebrooke's  Essays  are  the  great  authorities  on  Hindu  philo- 
soj)hy.  Ballantyne  has  translated  many  of  the  original  aphorisms, 
and  he,  Cockburn  Thomson,  Hall,  Banerjea,  and  others  have 
written  on  the  subject. 

DxlRUKA.  Ivr/sh?ia's  charioteer,  and  his  attendant  in  his 
last  days. 

DA^'A-KUMARA-CHARITA.  '  Tales  of  the  ten  princes,' 
by  Sti  'Ddiiidl.  It  is  one  of  the  few  Sanskrit  works  written  in 
prose,  but  its  style  is  so  studied  and  elaborate  that  it  is  classed 
as  a  Kavya  or  poem.  The  tales  are  stories  of  common  life,  and 
display  a  low  condition  of  morals  and  a  corrupt  state  of  society. 
The  text  has  been  printed  with  a  long  analytical  introduction 
by  H.  H.  Wilson,  and  again  in  Bombay  by  Biihler.  There  is  an 
abridged  translation  by  Jacobs,  also  a  translation  in  French  by 
Fauche,  and  a  longer  analysis  in  vol.  iv.  of  Wilson's  works. 

DA*SA¥AN"A.     '  Ten  faced.'     A  name  of  Eava?za. 

DA*SA-RATHA.  A  prince  of  the  Solar  race,  son  of  Aja,  a  de- 
scendant of  Ikshwaku,  and  king  of  Ayodhya.  He  had  three  wives, 
but  being  childless,  he  performed  the  sacrifice  of  a  horse,  and, 
according  to  the  Ramayawa,  the  chief  queen,  Kausalya,  remained 
in  close  contact  with  the  slaughtered  horse  for  a  night,  and  the 
other  two  queens  beside  her.  Four  sons  were  then  born  to  him 
from  his  three  wives.  Kausalya  bore  Rama,  Ivaikeyi  gave  birth 
to  Bharata,  and  Su-mitra  bore  Lakshmawa  and  AS'atru-ghna.  Rama 
partook  of  half  the  nature  of  Yish^Ri,  Bharata  of  a  quarter,  and 
the  other  two  shared  the  remaining  fourth.  The  Ramaya?ia,  in 
explanation  of  this  manifestation  of  Yish?iu,  says  that  he  had 
promised  the  gods  to  become  incarnate  as  man  for  the  destruction 
of  Rava??a.  He  chose  Dasa-ratha  for  his  human  parent ;  and 
when  that  king  was  performing  a  second  sacrifice  to  obtain  pro- 
geny, he  came  to  him  out  of  the  fire  as  a  glorious  being,  and 
gave  him  a  vessel  full  of  nectar  to  administer  to  his  wives. 
Da^a-ratha  gave  half  of  it  to  Kau5al3"a,  and  a  fourth  each  to 
Su-mitra  and  Kaikeyi.  They  all  in  consequence  became  preg- 
nant, and  their  offspring  partook  of  the  divine  nature  according 
to  the  portion  of  the  nectar  each  had  drunk.  There  were  several 
others  of  the  name.     See  Rama-chandra. 

DA>S'ARHA,  DAaSARHA.  Prince  of  the  Dasarhas,  a  title  of 
K?ishwa.     The  Dasarhas  were  a  tribe  of  Yadavas. 


84  DA  SA-R  UPAKA—DE  VAKI. 

DAaS'A-EUPAKA.  An  earlv  treatise  on  dramatic  com- 
position.  It  has  been  published  by  Hall  in  the  Bihliotheca 
Indica. 

DASAS.  'Slaves.'  Tribes  and  people  of  India  who  opposed 
the  progress  of  the  intrusive  Aryans. 

DASEAS.  'Beautiful.'  The  elder  of  the  two  Aswins,  or  in 
the  dual  (Dasrau),  the  two  As^^ins. 

DASYUS.  In  the  Yedas  thev  are  evil  bein^^s,  enemies  of  the 
gods  and  men.  They  are  represented  as  being  of  a  dark  colour, 
and  probably  were  the  natives  of  India  who  contended  with  the 
immigrant  Aryans.  It  has,  however,  been  maintained  that  they 
were  hermits  and  ascetics  of  Aryan  race.  In  later  times  they 
are  barbarians,  robbers,  outcasts,  who,  according  to  some  autho- 
rities, descended  from  Yi^wamitra. 

DATTAKA-CHAXDRIKA  A  treatise  on  the  law  of  adop- 
tion by  Devana  Bha/;'a.     Translated  by  Sutherland. 

DATTAKA-MlMAXSA.  A  treatise  on  the  law  of  adoption 
by  Xanda  Pam/ita.     Translated  by  Sutherland. 

*  D ATTAIvA->SIRO:^IA.YI.     A  digest  of  the  principal  treatises 
on  the  law  of  adoption.     Printed  at  Calcutta. 

DATTATREYA.  Son  of  Atri  and  Anasuya,  A  Brahman 
saint  in  whom  a  portion  of  Brahma,  Yish?2u,  and  /S'iva,  or  more 
particularly  Yishnu,  was  incarnate.  He  had  three  sons,  Soma, 
Datta,  and  Dur-vasas,  to  whom  also  a  portion  of  the  divine 
essence  was  transmitted.  He  was  the  patron  of  Karta-virya,  and 
gave  him  a  thousand  arms. 

DAYA-BHAGA.  'Law  of  inheritance.'  This  title  belongs 
especially  to  the  treatise  of  Jimiita  Yahana,  current  in  Bengal 
Translated  by  Colebrooke. 

DAYA-KRAMA-SAXGRAHA.  A  treatise  on  the  law  of 
inheritance  as  current  in  Bengal,  by  Sri  KrxshTia  Tarkalankiira. 
Translated  by  Wynch. 

DAYA-TATWA.  A  treatise  on  the  law  of  inheritance  as 
current  in  Bengal,  by  Raghunandana  Bha/^acharya. 

DEYA.  (Xom.  Devas  =  Deus,  from  the  root  Liv,  to  shine. ) 
God.  A  deity.  The  gods  are  spoken  of  as  thirty-three  in  num- 
ber, eleven  for  each  of  the  three  worlds. 

DEYAKA.     Father  of  Devaki  and  brother  of  Ugrasena. 

DEYAKI.  Wife  of  Yasu-deva,  mother  of  Kr/shna  and 
cousin  of  Kansa,     She  is  sometimes  called  an  incarnation  of 


DE  VA LA—DE  VA  YANI.  85 

Aditi,  and  is  said  to  have  been  born  again  as  Pri^ni,  the  wife  of 
King  Su-tapas. 

DEVALA.  A  Vedic  i?ishi,  to  whom  some  hymns  are  attri- 
buted. There  are  several  men  of  this  name ;  one  was  author 
of  a  code  of  law,  another  was  an  astronomer,  and  one  the  grand- 
father of  Pacini. 

DEVALA.     Music,  personified  as  a  female. 

DEYA-LOKA.  The  world  of  the  gods,  i.e.,  Swarga,  Indra's 
heaven. 

DEVA-MATi?/.  '  Mother  of  the  gods.'  An  appellation  of 
Aditi  (q.v.). 

DEYA-RATA.  i.  A  royal  Rk\\i  of  the  Solar  race,  who  dwelt 
among  the  Yidehas,  and  had  charge  of  >S'iva's  bow,  which  de- 
scended to  Janaka  and  was  broken  by  Rama.  2.  A  name  given 
to  iS'una^-sephas. 

DEYAESHIS.  (Deva-r/shis.)  i^isliis  or  saints  of  the  celes- 
tial class,  who  dwell  in  the  regions  of  the  gods,  such  as  Narada. 
Sages  who  have  attained  perfection  upon  earth  and  have  been 
exalted  as  demigods  to  heavem 

DEYATA.  A  divine  being  or  god.  The  name  Devatas 
includes  the  gods  in  general,  or,  as  most  frequently  used,  the 
whole  body  of  inferior  gods. 

DEYATADHYAYA-BEAHMAYA  The  fifth  Brahmawa 
of  the  Sama-veda.     The  text  has  been  edited  by  Burnell. 

DEYAYANI.  Daughter  of  >S'ukra,  priest  of  the  Daityas. 
She  fell  in  love  with  her  father's  pupil  Kacha,  son  of  B?'/haspati, 
but  he  rejected  her  advances.  She  cursed  him,  and  in  return 
he  cursed  her,  that  she,  a  Brahman's  daughter,  should  marry  a 
Ivshatriya.  Devayani  was  companion  to  Sarmish/ha,  daughter 
of  the  king  of  the  Daityas.  One  day  they  went  to  bathe,  and 
the  god  Yayu  changed  their  clothes.  Ylien  they  were  dressed, 
they  began  to  quarrel  about  the  change,  and  Devayani  s^^oke 
"  with  a  scowl  so  bitter  that  Sarmish/ha  slapped  her  face,  and 
pushed  her  into  a  dry  well."  She  was  rescued  by  King  Yayati, 
who  took  her  home  to  her  father.  /S'ukra,  at  his  daughter's 
vehement  persuasion,  demanded  satisfaction  from  Sarmish/ha's 
father,  the  Daitya  king.  He  conceded  Devayani's  demand,  that 
upon  her  marriage  Sarmishfha  should  be  given  to  her  for  a  ser- 
vant. Devayani  married  King  Yayati,  a  Kshatriya,  and  Sar- 
niish/ha   became   her   servant.      Subsequently   Yayati   became 


86  DEVA-YONI—DEVL 

enamoured  of  Sarmisli/ha,  and  slie  bore  liim  a  son,  the  discovery 
of  which,  so  enraged  Devayani  that  she  parted  from  her  husband, 
and  went  home  to  her  father,  having  borne  two  sons,  Yadu  and 
Tiirvasa  or  Turvasu.  Her  father,  iSukra,  cnrsed  Yayati  with  the 
infirmity  of  old  age,  but  afterwards  offered  to  transfer  it  to  any 
one  of  Yavati's  sons  who  would  submit  to  receive  it.  Yadu,  the 
eldest,  and  progenitor  of  the  Yadavas,  refused,  and  so  did  all  the 
other  sons,  with  the  exception  of  Sarmish/ha's  youngest  son, 
Puru.  Those  who  refused  were  cursed  by  their  father,  that  their 
posterity  should  never  possess  dominion;  but  Puru,  who  bore 
his  father's  curse  for  a  thousand  years,  succeeded  his  father  as 
monarch,  and  was  the  ancestor  of  the  Pa7it^?avas  and  Kauravas. 

DEYA-YONI.  '  Of  divine  birth.'  A  general  name  for  the 
inferior  gods,  the  Adityas,  Yasus,  Yiswadevas,  and  others. 

DEYI.  'The  goddess,'  or  Maha-devi,  'the  great  goddess,' 
wife  of  the  god  /Siva,  and  daughter  of  Himavat,  i.e.,  the  Hima- 
laya mountains.  She  is  mentioned  in  the  Maha-bharata  under 
a  variety  of  names,  and  with  several  of  her  peculiar  cliaracter- 
istics,  but  she  owes  her  great  distinction  to  the  Pura??as  and 
later  works.  As  the  /S'akti  or  female  energy  of  /Siva  she  has  two 
characters,  one  mild,  the  other  fierce ;  and  it  is  under  the  latter  that 
she  is  especially  w^orshii^ped.  She  has  a  great  variety  of  names, 
referable  to  her  various  forms,  attributes,  and  actions,  but  these 
names  are  not  always  used  accurately  and  distinctively.  In  her 
milder  form  she  is  Uma,  'light,'  and  a  type  of  beauty ;  Gauri, 
'  the  yellow  or  brilliant ; '  Parvati,  '  the  mountaineer ; '  and 
Haimavati,  from  her  parentage ;  Jagan-mata,  *  the  mother  of  the 
world ; '  and  Bhavanl.  In  her  terrible  form  she  is  Durgii,  '  the 
inaccessible  ; '  Kali  and  /S'yama,  '  the  black ; '  C\\^ndl  and  Chaw- 
Jika,  'the  fierce;'  and  Bhairavi,  'the  terrible.'  It  is  in  this 
character  that  bloody  sacrifices  are  offered  to  her,  that  the  bar- 
barities of  the  Durga-puja  and  Charak-piija  are  perpetrated  in 
her  honour,  and  that  the  indecent  orgies  of  the  Tantrikas  are 
held  to  propitiate  her  favours  and  celebrate  her  powers.  She 
has  ten  arms,  and  in  most  of  her  hands  there  are  weapons.  As 
Durga  she  is  a  beautiful  yellow  woman,  riding  on  a  tiger  in  a 
fierce  and  menacing  attitude.  As  Krdi  or  Kalikii,  '  the  black,' 
"  she  is  represented  with  a  black  skin,  a  hideous  and  terrible 
countenance,  drij^ping  with  blood,  encircled  with  snakes,  hung 
round  with  skulls  and  human  heads,  and  in  all  respects  resem- 


DEVI.  87 

"bling  a  fury  rather  than  a  goddess."  As  Vindhya-vasini,  'the 
dweller  in  the  Yindliyas,'  she  is  worshipped  at  a  place  of  that 
name  where  the  Yindhyas  approach  the  Ganges,  near  Mirzapur, 
and  it  is  said  that  there  the  blood  before  her  image  is  never 
allowed  to  get  dry.     As  ]\Iaha-maya  she  is  the  great  illusion. 

The  ChaTi^i-mahatmya,  which  celebrates  the  victories  of 
this  goddess  over  the  Asuras,  speaks  of  her  under  the  fol- 
lowing names  : — i.  Durga,  wdien  she  received  the  messengers 
of  the  Asuras.  2.  Dasa-bhuja.  'Ten-armed,'  when  she 
destroyed  part  of  their  army.  3.  Sinha-vahini.  '  Riding  on  a 
lion,'  when  she  fought  with  the  Asura  general  Rakta-vija.  4. 
Mahisha-mardini.  'Destroyer  of  Mahisha,'  an  Asura  in  the 
form  of  a  buffalo.  5.  Jagad-dhat/Y.  '  Fosterer  of  the  world,' 
when  she  again  defeated  the  Asura  army.  6.  Kali.  'The 
black.'  She  killed  Rakta-vija.  7.  Mukta-ke6i.  'With  dis- 
hevelled hair.'  Again  defeats  the  Asuras.  8.  Tilra.  'Star.' 
She  killed  vS'umbha.  9.  Chhinna-mastaka.  'Decapitated,' 
the  headless  form  in  which  she  killed'  Nisumbha.  i  o.  Jagad- 
gauri.  '  World's  fair  one,'  as  lauded  by  the  gods  for  her 
triumphs.  The  names  which  Devi  obtains  from  her  husband 
are  : — Babhravi  (Babhru),  Bhagavati,  Is-anT,  Iswari,  Kalanjari, 
Kapalini,  Kausiki,  KiratT,  Maheswari,  Mric^a,  M^^VZani,  Rud- 
ra/ii,  /Sarvam,  /S'lva,  TryambakL  From  her  origin  she  is  called 
Adri-ja  and  Giri-ja,  '  mountain-born  ; '  Ku-ja,  '  earth-born  ; ' 
Daksha-ja,  '  sprung  from  Daksha.'  She  is  Kanya,  '  the  virgin ; ' 
Kanya-kumari,  '  the  youthful  virgin ; '  and  Ambika,  '  the 
mother ; '  Avara,  '  the  youngest ; '  Ananta  and  Nitya,  '  the  ever- 
lasting ; '  Arya,  '  the  revered ; '  Yijaya,  '  victorious  ; '  i^iddhi, 
'  the  rich  ; '  Sati,  '  virtuous  ; '  Dakshi?ia,  '  right-handed ; '  Pinga, 
'  taw^ny,  dark  ; '  Karburi,  '  spotted ; '  Bhramarl,  '  the  bee  ; ' 
Ko/ari,  '  the  naked ; '  Kar?za-moti,  '  pearl-eared ; '  Padma-lanch- 
hana,  '  distinguished  by  a  lotus ; '  Sarva  -  mangala,  '  always 
auspicious  ; '  iS'akam  -  bhari,  '  nourisher  of  herbs  ; '  iSiva  -  diiti, 
'xS'iva's  messenger;'  Sinha-rathi,  'riding  on  a  lion.'  As  addicted 
to  austerities  she  is  Apar?ia  and  Katyayani.  As  Bhuta-nayaki 
she  is  chief  or  leader  of  the  goblins,  and  as  Gawa-nayaki,  the 
leader  of  the  GaTzas.  She  is  Kamaksln,  'wanton-eyed;'  and 
Kamakhya,  'called  by  the  name  of  Kama,  desire.'  Other 
names,  most  of  them  applicable  to  her  terrible  forms,  are  Bhadra- 
kali,  Bhima-devI,  Chamu?2tZa,  Maha-kall,  jMahamari,  Mahasuri, 


83         DEVI  BHAGAVATA  PURA.XA—DHARMA. 

Matangi,  Rajasi,  'the  fierce;'  and  Rakta-danti,  'red  or  bloody 
toothed.' 

DEYI  BHAGAVATA  PURA.VA.  A  ^aiva  PurSria,  which 
is  by  some  placed  among  the  eighteen  PuraTzas  instead  of  the 
aSti  Bhagavata,  which  is  devoted  to  YisliTiu.  This  is  devoted  to 
the  worship  of  the  /S'aktis. 

DEYl  MAHATMYA.  'The  greatness  of  De^^.'  A  poem 
of  700  verses,  which  celebrates  the  triumphs  of  Devi  over 
various  Asuras.  It  is  the  text-book  of  the  worshippers  of 
Devi,  and  is  read  daily  in  her  temples.  It  is  an  episode  of  the 
j\Iarkawf/eya  Pura/ia,  and  is  also  called  Cha?i(Zipa/ha. 

DHiVNA-DA.   '  Giver  of  wealth.'    Kuvera,  the  god  of  riches. 

DHAXAX-JAYA.  'Conqueror  of  riches.'  A  title  of  Arjuna 
and  of  several  others. 

DHAXAXJAYA  YIJAYA.  'Victories  of  Dhananjaya' 
(Arjuna).  A  drama  in  one  act  on  the  exploits  of  Arjuna  when 
in  the  service  of  the  Raja  Yira/a. 

DHAXA-PATI.     '  Lord  of  wealth.'     Kuvera. 

DHAXEaS'WARA.     '  Lord  of  wealth,'  i.e.,  Kuvera. 

DHANUR-YEDA.     The  science  of  archery,  the  military  art. 

DHANWANTARL  i.  Xame  of  a  Yedic  deity  to  whom  offer- 
ings at  twilight  were  made  in  the  north-east  quarter.  2.  Tlie 
physician  of  the  gods,  who  was  produced  at  the  churning  of  the 
ocean.  He  was  a  teacher  of  medical  science,  and  the  Ayur-veda 
is  attributed  to  him.  In  another  birth  he  was  son  of  Dlrgha- 
tamas,  and  his  "  nature  was  exempt  from  human  infirmities,  and 
in  every  existence  he  had  been  master  of  universal  knowledge." 
He  is  called  also  Sudha-pawi,  '  carrying  nectar  in  his  hands,'  and 
Amrita,  'the  immortal.'  Other  physicians  seem  to  have  had 
the  name  applied  to  them,  as  Bhela,  Divo-dasa,  and  Pulakapya. 
3.  A  celebrated  physician,  who  was  one  of  "  the  nine  gems " 
of  the  court  of  Yikrama.     See  Xava-ratna. 

DIIARAA^I.     The  eartli.     The  wife  of  Parasu-riima. 

DHARMA,  DHARMA-RAJA.  'Justice.'  A  name  of 
Yama,  the  judge  of  the  dead. 

DHARjMA.  An  ancient  sage,  sometimes  classed  among  the 
Prajiipatis.  He  married  thirteen  (or  ten)  of  the  daughters  of 
Daksha,  and  had  a  numerous  progeny ;  but  all  his  children  "  are 
manifestly  allegorical,  being  personifications  of  intelligences  and 
virtues  and  religious  rites,   and  being  therefore  appropriately 


DHA  RMA  -P  UTRA —DHA  RMA  -SASTRA .  89 

« 

wedded  to  the  probable  authors  of  the  Hindu  code  of  religion 
and  morals,  or  the  equally  allegorical  representation  of  that  code, 
Dharma,  moral  and  religious  duty." — Wilson, 

DHARMA-PUTRA.  '  Son  of  Dharma.'  A  name  of  Yudhi- 
sh/hira. 

DHARMARAiV^YA.  A  sacred  grove,  i.  A  forest  in  Mad- 
hyadesa  into  which  Dharma  retired.  2.  A  city  mentioned  in 
the  Ramaya?2a  as  founded  by  Amiirta-rajas,  son  of  Kusa. 

DHARMA-RAJA.  i.  Yama,  king  of  the  dead.  2.  A  title  of 
Yudlii-shfhira,  who  was  mythically  a  son  of  Yama. 

DHARMA-.S'ASTRA.  A  law-book  or  code  of  laws.  This 
term  includes  the  whole  body  of  Hindu  law,  but  it  is  more 
especially  applicable  to  the  laws  of  IManu,  Yajnawalkya,  and  other 
inspired  sages  who  first  recorded  the  Sm?7'ti  or  "recollections" 
of  what  they  had  received  from  a  divine  source.  These  works 
are  generally  in  three  parts  : — (i.)  Achara,  rules  of  conduct 
and  practice;  (2.)  Yyavahara,  judicature;  (3.)  Prayaschitta, 
penance. 

The  inspired  lawgivers  are  spoken  of  as  being  eighteen  in 
number,  but  the  names  of  forty-two  old  authorities  are  men- 
tioned. Manu  and  Yajnawalkya  stand  apart  by  themselves  at  the 
head  of  these  writers.  After  them  the  eighteen  other  inspired 
sages  are  recognised  as  the  great  authorities  on  law,  and  the 
works  ascribed  to  them  are  still  extant,  either  wholly  or  par- 
tially, or  in  an  abridged  form: — (i.)  Atri ;  (2.)  Yishwu;  (3.) 
Harita;  (4.)U5anas;  (5.)  Angiras;  (6.)  Yama;  (7.)  Apastamba; 
(8. )  Samvarta ;  (9. )  Katyay ana ;  (10.)  BHhaspati ;  (11.)  Parasara ; 
(12.)  Yyasa;  (13,  14.)  ^ankha  and  Likhita,  whose  joint  trea- 
tise is  frequently  quoted;  (15.)  Daksha  ;  (16.)  Gotama ;  (17.) 
/Satatapa;  (18.)  Yasish/ha.  But  there  are  others  who  are 
more  frequently  cited  than  many  of  these,  as  Narada,  Bhngu, 
Marichi,  Kasyapa,  Yiswamitra,  and  Baudhayana.  Other  names 
that  are  met  with  are  Pulastya,  Gargya,  Pai/hlnasi,  Sumantu, 
Lokakshi,  Kuthumi,  and  Dhaumya.  The  writings  of  some 
of  these  lawgivers  have  appeared  in  different  forms,  and  are 
referred  to  with  the  descriptive  epithets  of  Ynddha,  '  old ; ' 
Bnhat,  '  great ; '  and  Laghu,  '  light  or  small.' 

A  general  collection  of  the  Smr/tis  or  Dharma-sastras  has  been 
printed  in  Calcutta  under  the  title  of  Dharma-sastra-sangraha,  by 
Jivananda. 


90  DHA  RMA  -SA  VA  RNI—DHRISHTA  -KE  TU. 

DHARMA-SAYAE.VI.      The  eleventh  Mann.     See  Mann. 

DHARMA-SL^TRAS.  The  Samayacharika  Siitras  are  so 
called  becanse  they  had  among  them  maxims  of  a  legal  natnre. 

DHARMA-A^YADHA.  'The  pious  hnntsman.'  This  man 
is  represented  in  the  Maha-bharata  as  living  by  selling  the  flesh 
of  boars  and  bnffaloes,  and  yet  as  being  learned  in  the  Yedas 
and  in  all  the  knowledge  of  a  Brahman.  This  is  accounted  for 
by  his  having  been  a  Bralmian  in  a  former  birth,  and  cursed 
to  this  vile  occupation  for  having  wounded  a  Brahman  when 
hunting. 

DIIATTi/.  ']\Iaker,  creator.'  In  the  later  hymns  of  the 
i?/g-veda,  Dhat?'i  is  a  deity  of  no  very  defined  powers  and  func- 
tions, but  he  is  described  as  operating  in  the  production  of  life 
and  the  preservation  of  health.  He  promotes  generation,  brings 
about  matrimony,  presides  over  domestic  life,  cures  diseases, 
heals  broken  bones,  &c.  He  is  said  to  "have  formed  the  sun, 
moon,  sky,  earth,  air,  and  heaven  as  hefore.^^  He  appears  also 
as  one  of  the  Adityas,  and  this  character  he  still  retains.  In 
the  later  mythology  he  is  identified  with  Prajaj)ati  or  Brahma 
the  creator  ;  and  in  this  sense  of  "  maker  "  the  term  is  used  as 
an  epithet  of  Yishwu  and  Kr/shwa.  Sometimes  he  is  a  son  of 
Brahma. 

DHAUMYA.  I.  The  younger  brother  of  Devala  and  family 
priest  of  the  Paw/avas.  There  are  several  others  of  the  same 
name.      2.   Author  of  a  work  on  law. 

DHENUKA.  A  demon  killed  by  Bala-rama.  Kr/shwa  and 
Bala-rama,  as  boys,  picked  some  fruit  in  a  grove  belonging  to 
Dhenuka,  when  he  took  the  form  of  an  ass,  and  running  to  the 
spot  began  to  kick  Bala-rama.  The  young  hero  seized  him  by 
the  heels,  whirled  him  round  till  he  was  dead,  and  cast  his- 
carcase  on  to  the  top  of  a  palm-tree.  Several  of  his  companions 
who  ran  to  his  assistance  were  treated  in  the  same  way,  so 
that  "  the  trees  were  laden  with  dead  asses." 

DH/iJ/SHTA-DYUMNA.  Brother  of  DraupadI,  and  com- 
mander-in-chief of  the  PaTZcZava  armies.  He  killed,  somewhat  un- 
fairly in  combat,  Dro?za,  who  had  beheaded  his  father,  and  he  in 
his  turn  was  killed  by  Dro?ia's  son,  Aswatthaman,  who  stamped 
him  to  death  with  his  feet  as  he  lay  asleep. 

DH7?7SHTA-KETU.  i.  A  son  of  Dh?7shta-dyumna.  2. 
A  son  of  /S'liii-j^ula,  king  of  Chedi,  and  an  ally  of  the  Pa?2f?a- 


DHRITA-RASHTRA—DHUNDHU.  91 

vas.  3.  A  king  of  the  Kekayas,  also  an  ally  of  tlie  Pa?i^avas. 
4.   Son  of  Satyadlinti.     5.   Son  of  Xnga. 

DH7?/TA-RASHrRA.  t.  The  eldest  son  of  Yichitra-vlrya 
or  Yyasa,  and  brother  of  Pawc?u.  His  mother  was  Ambika.  He 
married  Gandhari,  and  by  her  had  a  hundred  sons,  the  eldest  of 
whom  was  Dur-yodhana.  Dhnta-rash/!ra  was  bhnd,  and  PawcZu 
was  affected  with  a  disease  supposed,  from  his  name,  "the  pale," 
to  be  a  leprous  affection.  The  two  brothers  in  turn  renounced 
the  throne,  and  the  great  war  recorded  in  the  INIaha-bharata  was 
fought  between  their  sons,  one  party  being  called  Kauravas, 
from  an  ancestor,  Kuru,  and  the  other  Pa?i6?avas,  from  their 
father  Pa7^c?u.  Dhrita-rash/ra  and  his  wife  were  burned  in  a 
forest  fire.  (/S'ee  Maha-bharata.)  2.  An  enormous  serpent  of 
many  heads  and  immense  strength. 

DHRUVA.  The  polar  star.  According  to  the  Yishmi 
Pura?ia,  the  sons  of  Manu  Swayam-bhuva  were  Priya-vrata  and 
Uttanapada.  The  latter  had  two  wives  ;  the  favourite,  Suruchi, 
was  proud  and  haughty;  the  second,  Suniti  or  Sun?i'ta,  was 
humble  and  gentle.  Suruclii  had  a  son  named  Uttama,  and 
Suniti  gave  birth  to  Dhruva.  "While  quite  a  child  Dhruva  was 
contemptuously  treated  by  Suruchi,  and  she  told  him  that  her 
own  son  Uttama  would  alone  succeed  to  the  throne.  Dhruva 
and  his  mother  submitted,  and  he  declared  that  he  wished  for 
no  other  honours  than  such  as  his  own  actions  should  acquire. 
He  was  a  Kshatriya,  but  he  joined  a  society  of  it/shis,  and 
becoming  a  iiishi  himself,  he  went  through  a  rigid  course  of 
austerities,  notwithstanding  the  efforts  of  Indra  to  distract  him. 
At  the  end  he  obtained  the  favour  of  YisliT^u,  who  raised  him 
to  the  skies  as  the  pole-star.  He  has  the  patronymic  Auttana- 
padi,  and  he  is  called  Grahadhara,  'the  stay  or  pivot  of  the 
planets. ' 

DHtJMA-YARYA.  '  Smoke  coloured.'  A  king  of  the  ser- 
pents. A  legend  in  tlie  Hari-vansa  relates  that  Yadu,  the 
founder  of  the  Yadava  family,  went  for  a  trip  of  pleasure 
on  the  sea,  where  he  was  carried  off  by  Dhuma-var/ia  to  the 
capital  of  the  serpents.  Dhiima-varTia  married  his  five  daugh- 
ters to  him,  and  from  them  sprang  seven  distinct  famihes  of 
people. 

DHUNDHIJ.  An  Asura  who  harassed  the  sage  Uttarika  in 
his  devotions.     The  demon  hid  himself  beneath  a  sea  of  sand, 


92  DH  UNDHU-MARA —DILI PA . 

but  was  dug  out  and  killed  hj  King  Kuvalaya-iwa  and  liis 
21,000  sons,  who  were  undeterred  by  the  flames  which  checked 
their  progress,  and  were  all  killed  but  three.  This  legend  pro- 
bably originated  from  a  volcano  or  some  similar  phenomenon. 
From  this  exploit  Kuvalaya^swa  got  the  name  of  Dhundhu- 
niara,  '  slayer  of  Dhundhu.' 

DHUXDHU-MARA.     See  Dhundhu  and  Kuvalayaswa. 

DHUR-JAn.  '  Haying  heavy  matted  locks.'  A  name  of 
Rudra  or  ^Siva. 

DHURTA-NARTAKA.  '  The  rogue  actors.'  A  farce  in  two 
parts  by  Sama  Raja  Dikshita.  "  The  chief  object  of  this  piece 
is  the  ridicule  of  the  ^Saiva  ascetics." 

DHURTA-SAMAGAMA.  'Assemblage  of  rogues.'  A 
comedy  by  ^Sekhara  or  Jyotir  Iswara.  "It  is  somewhat  indeli- 
cate, but  not  devoid  of  humour."  It  has  been  translated  into 
French  by  SchoebeL 

DIG-AMBARA.  '  Clothed  with  space.'  A  naked  mendi- 
cant.    A  title  of  /Siva. 

DIG-GAJAS.  The  elephants  who  protect  the  eight  points 
of  the  compass: — (i.)  Airavata;  (2.)  PumZarika;  (3.)  Ya- 
mana;  (4.)  Kumuda;  (5.)  Anjana;  (6.)  Pushpa-danta ;  (7.) 
Sarva-bhauma ;  (8.)  Su-pratlka. 

DIG-YIJAYA.  '  Conquest  of  the  regions  (of  the  world).' 
I.  A  part  of  the  Maha-bharata  which  commemorates  the  con- 
quests effected  by  the  four  younger  Pa7iJava  princes,  and  in 
virtue  of  which  Yudlii-sh^hira  maintained  his  claim  to  uni- 
versal sovereignty.  2.  A  work  by  /Sankaracharya  in  support 
of  the  Yedanta  philosophy,  generally  distinguished  as  /S'ankara 
Dig-vijaya. 

DIK-PALA.  '  Supporters  of  the  regions.'  The  supporters 
of  the  eight  points  of  the  compass.     See  Dig-gaja. 

DILIPA.  Son  of  Ansumat  and  father  of  Bhagiratha.  He 
was  of  the  Solar  race  and  ancestor  of  Rama.  On  one  occasion 
he  failed  to  pay  due  respect  to  Surabhi,  the  '  cow  of  fortune,' 
and  she  passed  a  curse  upon  him  that  he  should  have  no 
offspring  until  he  and  his  wife  Su-dakshi?iri  liad  carefully 
tended  Surabhi's  daughter  Nandinl.  They  obediently  Avaited 
on  this  calf  Nandinl,  and  Dilipa  once  offered  his  own  life  to 
save  hers  from  the  lion  of  >S'iva,  In  due  time  the  curse  was 
removed,  and  a  son,  Raghu,  was  born  to  them.     This  story  is 


dIrgha-sra  VAS—DIVO-DASA.  93 

told  in  the  Eagliu-vani'a.  There  was  another  prince  of  the 
name.     See  Khahvanga. 

DIRGHA-zS'RAVAS.  Son  of  Dirgha-tamas,  and  therefore  a 
it/shi,  but  as  in  a  time  of  famine  he  took  to  trade  for  a  liveH- 
hood,  the  itz'g-veda  calls  him  "  the  merchant." 

DIRGHA-TAMAS,  DlRGHA-TAPAS.  'Long  darkness.' 
A  son  of  Kasi-raja,  according  to  the  Maha-bharata  ;  of  Uchathya, 
according  to  the  i?/g-veda;  and  of  Utathya  and  Mamata  in 
the  PuraTias.  His  appellations  of  Auchath3'a  and  Mamateya 
favour  the  latter  parentage.  He  was  born  blind,  but  is  said  to 
have  obtained  sight  by  worshipping  Agni  (R.  V.  iii.  128).  He 
was  father  of  Kakshivat  and  Dhanwantari ;  and  he  is  said  (in 
the  V.  P.)  to  have  had  five  children  by  Su-desh?za,  wife  of 
Bali,  viz.,  the  countries  Anga,  Banga,  Kalinga,  Pu?zc^ra,  and 
Suhma. 

DITI.  A  goddess  or  personification  in  the  Vedas  who  is 
associated  with  Aditi,  and  seems  to  be  intended  as  an  antithesis 
or  as  a  complement  to  her. 

In  the  RamayaTza  and  in  the  Purawas  she  is  daughter  of 
Daksha,  wife  of  Kasyapa,  and  mother  of  the  Daityas.  The 
Vishwu  Pura?ia  relates  that  having  lost  her  children,  she  begged 
of  Kasyapa  a  son  of  irresistible  prowess,  who  should  destroy 
Indra.  The  boon  was  granted,  but  with  this  condition  :  "  If, 
with  thoughts  wholly  pious  and  person  entirely  pure,  you  care- 
fully carry  the  babe  in  your  womb  for  a  hundred  years."  She 
assiduously  observed  the  condition ;  but  Indra  knew  what  was 
preparing  for  him.  So  he  went  to  Diti  and  attended  upon  her 
with  the  utmost  humility,  watching  his  opportunity.  In  the 
last  year  of  the  century,  Diti  retired  one  night  to  rest  without 
Avashing  her  feet.  Indra  then  with  his  thunderbolt  divided  the 
embryo  in  her  womb  into  seven  portions.  Thus  mutilated,  the 
child  cried  bitterly,  and  Indra  being  unable  to  pacify  it,  became 
angry,  and  divided  each  of  the  seven  portions  into  seven,  thus 
forming  the  swift-moving  deities  called.  Maruts,  from  the  words, 
'  Ma-rodiA,'  '  Weep  not,'  which  Indra  used  to  quiet  them. 

DIYO-DASA.  I.  A  pious  liberal  king  mentioned  in  the  Rig- 
veda,  for  whom  it  is  said  that  Indra  demolished  a  hundred  stone 
cities,  meaning  perhaps  the  mythological  aerial  cities  of  the 
Asuras.  2.  A  Brahman  who  Avas  the  twin-brother  of  Ahalya. 
He  is  represented  in  the  Veda  as  a  "very  liberal  sacrificer," 


94  DRAUPADL 

and  as  being  delivered  by  the  gods  from  tlie  oppressor 
iSambara.  He  is  also  called  Atitlii-gwa,  '  he  to  whom  guests 
should  go.'  3.  A  king  of  Kasi,  son  of  Bhima-ratha  and  father  of 
Pratardana.  He  was  attacked  by  the  sons  of  King  Vita-havya 
and  all  his  sons  were  slain.  His  son  Pratardana  (q.v.)  was  born 
to  him  through  a  sacrifice  performed  by  Bharadwaja.  He  was 
celebrated  as  a  physician  and  was  called  Dhanwantari. 

DRAUPADL  Daughter  of  Drupada,  king  of  Panchrda,  and 
wife  of  the  five  Pawdiu  princes.  Draupadi  was  a  damsel  of  dark 
complexion  but  of  great  beauty,  "  as  radiant  and  graceful  as  if 
she  had  descended  from  the  city  of  the  gods."  Her  hand  was 
sought  by  many  princes,  and  so  her  father  determined  to  hold  a 
swayam-vara  and  allow  her  to  exercise  her  own  choice  in  the 
selection  of  a  husband.  The  swayam-vara  was  proclaimed,  and 
princes  assembled  from  all  parts  to  contend  in  the  lists  for  the 
hand  of  the  princess ;  for  although  in  such  contests  the  lady  was 
entitled  to  exercise  her  swayam-vara  or  own  choice,  it  generally 
followed  that  the  champion  of  the  arena  became  her  husband. 
Most  astonishing  feats  of  arms  were  performed,  but  Arjuna  out- 
shone all  by  his  marvellous  use  of  the  bow,  and  he  became  the 
selected  bridegroom.  When  the  five  brothers  returned  to  the 
house  where  their  mother,  Kunti,  was  staying,  they  told  her  that 
they  had  made  a  great  acquisition,  and  she  told  them  to  share  it 
among  them.  These  words  raised  a  great  difficulty,  for  if  they 
could  not  be  adroitly  evaded  they  must  be  obeyed.  The  sage 
Vyasa  settled  the  matter  by  saying,  "  The  destiny  of  Draupadi 
has  already  been  declared  by  the  gods ;  let  her  become  the  wife 
of  all  the  brethren."  So  she  became  their  common  wife,  and  it 
was  arranged  that  she  should  stay  successively  two  days  in  the 
liouse  of  each,  and  that  no  one  of  them  but  the  master  of  the 
house  should  enter  it  while  she  was  there.  Arjuna  was 
her  favourite,  and  she  showed  her  jealousy  when  he  mar- 
ried Su-bhadra.  In  the  great  gambling  match  which  the 
eldest  brother,  Yudhi-sh/hira,  played  at  Ilastinii-pura  against 
his  cousins,  the  Kauvaras,  he  lost  his  all — his  kingdom,  his 
brothers,  himself,  and  their  wife  Draujiadl.  So  she  became 
a  slave,  and  Dur-yodhana  called  her  to  come  and  sweep  the 
room.  She  refused,  and  then  Duh-sasana  dragged  her  by 
the  hair  into  the  pavilion  before  all  the  chieftains,  and  taunt- 
ingly told  her  that  she  was  a  slave  girl,  and  had  no  right  to 


DRAUPADI.  95 

complain  of  being  touched  by  men.  lie  also  abused  lier 
and  tore  off  her  veil  and  dress,  while  Dur-yodhana  invited  her 
to  sit  on  his  thigh.  Knshwa  took  compassion  upon  her,  and 
restored  her  garments  as  fast  as  they  were  torn.  She  called 
vehemently  upon  her  husbands  to  save  her,  but  they  were 
restrained  by  Yudhi-sh/hira.  Bhima  was  in  a  rage  of  passion ; 
he  was  prevented  from  action ;  but  he  vowed  in  loud  words 
that  he  would  drink  the  blood  of  Duh-sasana  and  smash  the 
thigh  of  Dur-yodhana  in  retaliation  of  these  outrages,  which 
vows  he  eventually  fulfilled.  Draupadi  vowed  that  her  hair 
should  remain  dishevelled  until  Bhima  should  tie  it  up  with 
hands  dripping  with  the  blood  of  Duh-5asana.  The  result 
of  the  gambling  match  was  that  the  Pa?2<iavas,  with  Draupadi, 
went  into  exile  for  twelve  years,  and  were  to  dwell  quite 
incognito  during  another  j^ear.  The  period  of  thirteen  years 
being  successfully  completed,  they  were  at  liberty  to  return. 
Twelve  years  of  exile  were  passed  in  the  jungle,  and  in  the 
course  of  this  period  Jayad-ratha,  king  of  Sindhu,  came  to  the 
house  of  the  Pa?if?avas  while  they  were  out  hunting.  He  was 
courteously  received  by  Draupadi,  and  was  fascinated  by  her 
charms.  He  tried  to  induce  her  to  elope  with  him,  and  when 
he  was  scornfully  rej^ulsed,  he  dragged  her  to  his  chariot  and 
drove  off  with  her.  "When  the  Pa?i6/avas  returned  and  heard 
of  the  rape,  they  pursued  Jayad-ratha,  and  pressed  him  so  close 
that  he  put  down  Draupadi,  and  endeavoured  to  escape  alone. 
Bhima  resolved  to  overtake  and  punish  him ;  and  although 
Yudhi-sh/hira  pleaded  that  Jayad-ratha  was  a  kinsman,  and 
ought  not  to  be  killed,  Draujmdi  called  aloud  for  vengeance, 
so  Bhima  and  Aijuna  continued  the  pursuit.  Bhima  dragged 
Jayad-ratha  from  his  car,  kicked  and  beat  him  till  he  was  sense- 
less, but  spared  his  life.  He  cut  off  all  Jayad-ratha's  hair  except 
five  locks,  and  made  him  publicly  acknowledge  that  he  was  a 
slave.  Draupadi's  revenge  was  then  slaked,  and  Jayad-ratha  was 
released  at  her  intercession.  In  the  thirteenth  year,  in  which 
her  husbands  and  she  were  to  live  undiscovered,  they  entered 
the  service  of  the  king  of  Vira/a,  and  she,  without  acknowledg- 
ing any  connection  with  them,  became  a  waiting-maid  to  the 
queen.  She  stipulated  that  she  should  not  be  required  to  wash 
feet  or  to  eat  food  left  by  others,  and  she  quieted  the  jealous 
fears  which  her  beauty  excited  in  the  queen's  mind  by  represent- 


96  DRA  UP  ADJ. 

ing  that  she  was  guarded  by  five  Gandharvas,  who  would  prevent 
any  improper  advances.  She  lived  a  quiet  life  for  a  while,  but 
her  beauty  excited  the  passions  of  Kichaka,  the  queen's  brother, 
who  was  commander-in-chief,  and  the  loading  man  in  the  king- 
dom. His  importunities  and  insults  greatly  annoyed  her,  but 
she  met  with  no  protection  from  the  queen,  and  was  rebuked  for 
her  complaints  and  petulance  by  Yudhi-shHiira.  Her  spirit  of 
revenge  was  roused,  and  she  appealed  as  usual  to  Bhima,  whose 
fiery  passions  she  well  knew  how  to  kindle.  She  complained  of 
her  menial  position,  of  the  insults  she  had  received,  of  the  in- 
difference of  her  husbands,  and  of  the  base  offices  thev  were 
content  to  occupy.  Bhima  promised  revenge.  An  assignation 
was  made  with  Kichaka  which  Bhima  kept,  and  he  so  mangled 
the  unfortunate  gallant  that  all  his  flesh  and  bones  were  rolled 
into  a  ball,  and  no  one  could  discover  the  manner  of  his  death. 
The  murder  was  attributed  to  Draupadi's  Gandharvas,  and  she 
was  condemned  to  be  burnt  on  Kichaka's  funeral  pile.  Then 
Bhima  disguised  himself,  and  tearing  up  a  tree  for  a  club,  went 
to  her  rescue.  He  was  supposed  to  be  the  Gandharva,  and 
every  one  fled  before  him.  He  released  Draupadi,  and  they 
returned  to  the  city  by  different  ways.  After  the  term  of  exile 
was  over,  and  the  Pa/ic?avas  and  she  were  at  liberty  to  return, 
she  was  more  ambitious  than  her  husbands,  and  complained  to 
K?7'shria  of  the  humility  and  want  of  resolution  shown  by 
Yudhi-sh^hira.  She  had  five  sons,  one  by  each  husband — 
Prati-vindhya,  son  of  Yudhi-sh/hira  ;  6ruta-soma,  son  of  Bhima  ; 
/S'ruta-kirtti,  son  of  Arjuna ;  /Satanika,  son  of  Xakula ;  and 
iS'ruta-karman,  son  of  Saha-deva.  She  with  these  five  sons  was 
present  in  camp  on  the  eighteenth  and  last  night  of  the  great 
battle,  while  her  victorious  husbands  were  in  the  camp  of  the 
defeated  enemy.  Aswatthaman  with  two  companions  entered  the 
camp  of  the  Pa?irt'avas,  cut  down  these  five  youths,  and  all  whom 
they  found.  Draupadi  called  for  vengeance  upon  Aswatthaman. 
Yudhi-sh^hira  endeavoured  to  moderate  her  anger,  but  she  appealed 
to  Bhima.  Arjuna  pursued  Aswatthaman,  and  overtook  liim,  but 
he  spared  his  life  after  taking  from  him  a  celebrated  jewel  which 
he  wore  as  an  amulet.  Arjuna  gave  this  jewel  to  Blilma  for 
presentation  to  Draupadi.  On  receiving  it  she  was  consoled, 
and  presented  the  jewel  to  Yudhi-sh/hira  as  the  head  of  the 
family.     When  her  husbands  retired  from  the  world  and  went 


DRAVIDA—DRONA.  97 

on  their  journey  towards  the  Himalayas  and  Indra's  heaven,  she 
accompanied  them,  and  was  the  first  to  fall  on  the  journey.  See 
Maha-bhiirata. 

Draupadi's  real  name  was  K?•^shwa.  She  was  called  Draupadi 
and  Yajna-seni,  from  her  father ;  Parshati,  from  her  grand- 
father Prishata ;  Panchali,  from  her  country ;  Sairindhri,  '  the 
maid-servant '  of  the  queen  of  Virata ;  Panchanii,  '  having  five 
husbands  ; '  and  Nita-yauvani,  '  the  ever-young. ' 

DRAVIZ^A.  The  country  in  which  the  Tamil  language  is 
spoken,  extending  from  Madras  to  Cape  Comorin.  According 
to  Manu,  the  people  of  this  country  were  originally  Kshatriyas, 
but  sank  to  the  condition  of  ^ildras  from  the  extinction  of 
sacred  rites  and  the  absence  of  Brahmans.  As  applied  to  the 
classification  of  Brahmans  it  has  a  much  wider  application,  em- 
bracing Gujarat,  Maha-rash^a,  and  all  the  south. 

D^ISHADWATI.  A  common  female  name.  i.  The  wife  of 
King  Divo-dasa.  2.  A  river  forming  one  of  the  boundaries  of  Brah- 
mavarta,  perhaps  the  Kagar  before  its  junction  with  the  Sarsuti. 

DROiVA.  'A  bucket.'  A  Brahman  so  named  from  his 
having  been  generated  by  his  father,  Bharadwaja,  in  a  bucket. 
He  married  Kripa,  half-sister  of  Bhishma,  and  by  her  was  father 
of  Aswatthaman.  He  was  acharya,  or  teacher  of  the  military 
art,  both  to  the  Kaurava  and  Pa?^(iava  princes,  and  so  he 
was  called  Dro?zacharya.  He  had  been  slighted  by  Drupada, 
king  of  Panchala,  and  became  his  enemy.  Through  the  in- 
strumentality of  the  Pa?if?avas  he  made  Drupada  prisoner,  and 
took  from  him  half  of  his  kingdom ;  but  he  spared  his  life 
and  gave  him  back  the  other  half  of  his  country  But  the 
old  animosity  rankled,  and  ended  in  the  death  of  both.  In  the 
great  war  Drojza  sided  with  the  Kauravas,  and  after  the  death 
of  Bhishma  he  became  their  commander-in-chief.  On  the  fourth 
day  of  his  command  he  killed  Drupada,  and  in  his  turn  he  was 
unfairly  slain  in  combat  by  Dh?i'sh/a-dyumna,  who  had  sworn 
to  avenge  his  father's  death.  In  the  midst  of  this  combat 
Dro7?a  was  told  that  his  son  was  dead,  which  so  unnerved  him 
that  he  laid  down  his  arms  and  his  opponent  decapitated  him. 
But  Dro?ia  was  a  Brrdiman  and  an  Acharya,  and  the  crime  of 
kiUing  him  was  enormous,  so  it  is  glossed  over  by  the  statement 
that  Dro?2a  "  transported  himself  to  heaven  in  a  glittering  state 
like  the  sun,  and  Dh?ish/a-dyumna  decapitated  merely  his  lifo- 


93  DRUHYU—DUHSASANA. 

less  body."  Dro7ia  was  also  called  Ku/a-ja.  The  common 
meaning  of  Ku/a  is  '  mountain-top,'  but  one  of  its  many  other 
meanings  is  'water-jar.'     His  patron}Tnic  is  Bharad^Yaja. 

DEUHYU.  Son  of  Yayati,  by  Sarmish^ha,  daughter  of  the 
Daitya  king  Y?'/sha-parvan.  He  refused  to  exchange  his  youth 
for  the  curse  of  decrepitude  passed  upon  his  father,  and  in  conse- 
quence Yayati  cursed  him  that  his  posterity  should  not  possess 
dominion.  His  father  gave  him  a  part  of  his  kingdom,  but  his  de- 
scendants became  "princes  of  the  lawless  barbarians  of  the  north." 

DKUPADA.  King  of  Panchala  and  son  of  P?*/shata.  Also 
called  Yajna-sena.  He  was  schoolfellow  of  Drowa,  the  preceptor  of 
the  Kaurava  and  Pa?iG?ava  princes,  and  he  mortally  offended  his 
former  friend  by  repudiating  his  acquaintance.  Dro?za,  in  pay- 
ment of  his  services  as  preceptor,  required  his  pupils  to  make 
Drupada  prisoner.  The  Kauravas  attacked  him  and  failed,  but 
the  Pa7?(/avas  took  Drupada  captive  and  occupied  his  territory. 
Dro?2a  spared  his  life  and  restored  the  southern  half  of  his 
kingd.om  to  him.  Drupada  returned  home  burning  for  revenge, 
and,  to  procure  it,  he  prevailed  upon  two  Brahmans  to  jDerform 
a  sacrifice,  by  the  efficacy  of  which  he  obtained  two  children, 
a  son  and  a  daughter,  who  were  called  "  the  altar-born,"  be- 
cause they  came  forth  from  the  sacrificial  fire.  These  children 
were  named  Dh?7'sh/a-dyumna  and  Ivr/sli?za,  but  the  latter 
is  better  known  by  her  patronymic  Draupadi.  After  she  had 
chosen  Arjuna  for  her  husband  at  her  swayam-vara,  and  she  had 
become,  with  Drupada's  consent,  the  wife  of  the  five  Pa??c/avas, 
he  naturally  became  the  ally  of  his  sons-in-law.  He  took  an 
active  part  in  the  great  battle,  and  on  the  fourteenth  day  he 
was  killed  and  beheaded  by  Drowa,  who  on  the  following  day 
was  killed  by  Dhrish/'a-dyumna,  the  son  whom  Drupada  had 
obtained  for  wreaking  his  vengeance  on  Dro?ia.  Besides  the 
two  children  mentioned,  Drupada  had  a  younger  son  named 
/S'ikha?zf/in  and  a  daughter  6'ikha?2f/inl. 

DU//-aSALA.  The  only  daughter  of  Dh?7'ta-rash<ra  and  wife 
of  Jayad-ratha. 

DU//-aS'ASAXA.  '  Hard  to  rule.'  One  of  the  hundred  sons 
of  Dhr/ta-rash^ra.  '\Yhen  the  Piiwf/avas  lost  their  wife  Draupadi 
in  gamljling  witli  Dur-yodhana,  Du/i-sasana  dragged  her  forward 
by  the  hair  and  otherwise  ill-used  her.  For  this  outrage  Bhima 
vowed  he  would  drink  his  blood,  a  vow  wliich  he  afterwards 
I'ciformed  on  the  sixteenth  day  of  the  great  battle. 


D  UR-  GA—D  UR-  \  'ODHA  NA .  .99 

DUR-GA.     A  commentator  on  the  Nirukta. 

DUR-GA     '  Inaccessible.'     The  wife  of  /S'iva.     See  Devi. 

DUR-MUKHA.  'Bad  face.'  A  name  of  one  of  Dhnta- 
rash^ra's  sons.  Also  of  one  of  Rama's  monkey  allies,  and  of 
several  others. 

DUR-VASAS.  'Ill-clothed.'  A  sage,  the  son  of  Atri  and 
Anasiiya,  but,  according  to  some  authorities,  he  was  a  son  or 
emanation  of  A^iva.  He  was  noted  for  his  irascible  temper,  and 
many  fell  under  his  curse.  It  was  he  who  cursed  /S'akuntala 
for  keeping  him  waiting  at  the  door,  and  so  caused  the  separa- 
tion between  her  and  King  Dushyanta.  But  it  was  he  who 
blessed  KuntI,  so  that  she  became  a  mother  by  the  Sun.  In . 
the  Vish?zu  Pura?ia  he  is  represented  as  cursing  India  for  treat- 
ing with  disrespect  a  garland  which  the  sage  presented  to  him. 
The  curse  was  that  "  his  sovereignty  over  the  three  worlds 
should  be  subverted,"  and  under  it  Indra  and  the  gods  grew 
weak  and  were  overpowered  by  the  Asuras.  In  their  extremity 
they  resorted  to  Yish?Lu,  who  directed  them  to  churn  the  ocean 
of  milk  for  the  production  of  the  Am?7ta  (water  of  life)  and 
other  precious  things.  In  the  Maha-bharata  it  is  stated  that  on 
one  occasion  K7"ish?ia  entertained  him  hospitably,  but  omitted 
to  wipe  the  fragments  of  food  from  the  foot  of  the  sage.  At 
this  the  latter  grew  angry  and  foretold  how  Iv?'/sh?ia  should  be 
killed.  The  Yishwu  Pura?2a  states  that  Krishwa  fell  according 
to  "  the  imprecation  of  Dur-vasas,"  and  in  the  same  work  Dur- 
vasas  is  made  to  describe  himself  as  one  "  whose  nature  is 
stranger  to  remorse." 

DUR-YASASA  PURAA^A.  One  of  the  eighteen  Upa  Pu- 
rawas.     See  Pura??a. 

DUR-Y0DHA:N'A.  'Hard  to  conquer.'  The  eldest  son  of 
King  Dlw^ta-rash/ra,  and  leader  of  the  Kaurava  princes  in  the 
great  war  of  the  Maha-bharata.  His  birth  was  somewhat  mar- 
vellous. {See  Gandhari.)  Upon  the  death  of  his  brother  Pa/zc^u, 
Dh?7'ta-rash^ra  took  his  five  sons,  the  Pa?ifZava  j)rinces,  to  his  own 
court,  and  had  them  educated  with  his  hundred  sons.  Bicker- 
ings and  jealousies  soon  sprang  up  between  the  cousins,  and 
Dur-yodliana  took  a  special  dislike  to  Bhima  on  account  of  his 
skill  in  the  use  of  the  club.  Dur-yodhana  had  learnt  the  use  of 
this  weapon  under  Bala-rama,  and  was  jealous  of  any  rival.  He 
poisoned  Bhima  and  threw  his  bodj"  into  the  Ganges,  but  Bhima 


lOo  DUR-YODHANA. 

sank  to  the  regions  of  the  Xagas,  where  he  was  restored  to  health 
and  vigour.  Allien  Dh?-ita-rash/ra  proposed  to  make  Yudhi- 
sh/hira  heir-apparent,  Dur-yodhana  strongly  remonstrated,  and 
the  result  was  that  the  Pawc^avas  went  into  exile.  Even  then 
his  animosity  pursued  them,  and  he  laid  a  plot  to  hurn  them  in 
their  house,  from  which  they  escaped  and  retaliated  upon  his 
emissaries.  After  the  return  of  the  Pa?iJavas  from  exile,  and 
their  establishment  at  Indra-prastha,  his  anger  was  further 
excited  by  Yudhi-sh/hira's  performance  of  the  Raja-suya  sacrifice. 
He  prevailed  on  his  father  to  invite  the  Pa7ic?avas  to  Hastina- 
pura  to  a  gambhng  match,  in  which,  with  the  help  of  his 
confederate  ^akuni,  he  won  from  Yudhi-sh/hira  everything  he 
possessed,  even  to  the  freedom  of  himself,  bis  brothers,  and  his 
wife  Draupadi.  Dur-yodliana  exultingly  sent  for  Draupadi  to 
act  as  a  slave  and  sweep  the  room.  When  she  refused  to  come, 
his  brother,  Du/i-sasana,  dragged  her  in  by  the  hair  of  her  head, 
and  Dur-yodhana  insulted  her  by  inviting  her  to  sit  upon  his 
knee.  This  drew  from  Bhima  a  vow  that  he  would  one  day 
smash  Dur-yodhana's  thigh.  Dhrita-rash/ra  interfered,  and  the 
result  of  the  gambling  was  that  the  Pa?z(/avas  again  went  into 
exile,  and  were  to  remain  absent  thirteen  years.  While  the 
PawcZavas  were  living  in  the  forest,  Dur-yodhana  went  out  for 
the  purpose  of  gratifying  his  hatred  with  a  sight  of  their  poverty. 
He  was  attacked  and  made  prisoner  by  the  Gandharvas,  probably 
hill  people,  and  was  rescued  by  the  Pa7ic?avas.  This  incident 
greatly  mortified  him.  The  exile  of  the  Pa?zc?avas  drew  to  a 
close.  War  was  inevitable,  and  both  parties  prepared  for  the 
struGfde.  Dur-vodhana  sought  the  aid  of  K?-2sh?ia,  but  made 
the  great  mistake  of  accepting  K?'/sh?ia's  army  in  preference  to 
his  personal  attendance.  He  accompanied  his  army  to  the  field, 
and  on  the  eighteenth  day  of  the  battle,  after  his  party  had  been 
utterly  defeated,  he  fled  and  hid  himself  in  a  lake,  for  he  was 
said  to  possess  the  power  of  remaining  under  water.  He  was 
discovered,  and  with  great  difficulty,  by  taunts  and  sarcasms,  was 
induced  to  come  out.  It  was  agreed  that  he  and  Pjlilma  should 
fight  it  out  with  clubs.  The  contest  was  long  and  furious,  and 
Dur-yodhana  was  getting  the  best  of-  it,  when  Bhima  remembered 
his  vow,  and,  although  it  was  unfair  to  strike  below  the  waist, 
he  cjave  his  antacjonist  such  a  violent  blow  on  the  tliigh  that  the 
bone  was  smashed  and  Dur-yodhana  fell.     Then  Bliinia  kicked 


DUR-YODHANA—DWIJARSHIS,  loi 

liim  on  the  head  and  triumphed  over  him.  Left  wounded  and 
alone  on  the  field,  he  was  visited  hy  Aswatthaman,  son  of 
Dro7ia,  and  two  other  warriors,  the  only  survivors  of  his  army. 
He  thirsted  for  revenge,  and  directed  them  to  slay  all  the  Paw- 
6?avas,  and  especially  to  bring  him  the  head  of  Bhima.  These 
men  entered  the  camp  of  the  enemy,  and  killed  the  five  youthful 
sons  of  the  Pawc?avas.  The  version  of  the  Maha-bharata  used 
by  Wheeler  adds  that  these  warriors  brought  the  heads  of  the 
five  youths  to  Dur-yodliana,  representing  them  to  be  the  heads 
of  the  five  brothers.  Dur-yodhana  was  unable  in  the  twilight 
to  distinguish  the  features,  but  he  exulted  greatly,  and  desired 
that  Ehima's  head  might  be  placed  in  his  hands.  With  dying 
energy  he  pressed  it  with  all  his  might,  and  when  he  found 
that  it  crushed,  he  knew  that  it  was  not  the  head  of  Bhima. 
Having  discovered  the  deception  that  had  been  played  upon 
him,  with  a  redeeming  touch  of  humanity  he  reproached  Aswat- 
thaman  for  his  horrid  deed  in  slaying  the  harmless  youths, 
saying,  with  his  last  breath,  "  My  enmity  was  against  the 
Pa?2C?avas,  not  against  these  innocents."  Dur-yodhana  was 
called  also  Su-yodhana,  'good  fighter.' 

DUSHAiVA,  A  Eakshasa  who  fought  as  one  of  the  generals 
of  Rava72a,  and  was  killed  by  Rama.  He  was  generally  asso- 
ciated with  RavaTia's  brother,  Khara. 

DUSHMANTA,  DUSHYANTA.  A  vahant  king  of  the 
Lunar  race,  and  descended  from  Puru.  He  was  husband  of 
/Sakuntala,  by  whom  he  had  a  son,  Bharata.  The  loves  of  Dush- 
yanta  and  iSakuntala,  her  separation  from  him,  and  her  restora- 
tion through  the  discovery  of  his  token-ring  in  the  belly  of  a 
fish,  form  the  plot  of  Kali-dasa's  celebrated  play  5akuntala. 

DUTANGADA.  '  The  ambassador  Angada.'  A  short  play 
founded  on  the  mission  of  Angacla  to  demand  from  Ravawa  the 
restoration  of  Sita.     It  is  attributed  to  a  poet  named  Subha/a. 

DWAIPAYA^^A.     8ee  Yyasa. 

DWAPARA  YUGA.  The  third  age  of  the  world,  extending 
to  864,000  years.     See  Yuga. 

DWARAKA,  DWARAYATL  '  The  city  of  gates.'  Knsh72a's 
capital,  in  Gujarat,  which  is  said  to  have  been  submerged  by 
the  ocean  seven  days  after  his  death.  It  is  one  of  the  seven 
sacred  cities.     Also  called  Abdlii-nagarL 

DWIJARSHIS.     (Dwija-?-ishis.)     See  Brahmarshis, 


I02  D  WIPA—EKA-CHAKRA. 

DAYIPA.  An  insular  continent.  The  Dwij^as  stretcli  ont 
from  tlie  mountain  Meru  as  their  common  centre,  like  the  leaves 
of  a  lotus,  and  are  separated  from  each  other  by  distinct  circum- 
ambient oceans.  They  are  generally  given  as  seven  in  number : 
— I.  Janibu,  2,  Plaksha  or  Go-medaka,  3.  >S'rdmala,  4.  Ivu.sa,  5. 
Krauncha,  6.  *Suka,  7.  Pushkara;  and  the  seas  which  surround 
them  are — i.  Lava/ia,  salt  water;  2.  Ikshu,  sugar-cane  juice; 
3.  Sura,  wine;  4.  Sarpis  or  Ghfita,  clarified  butter;  5.  Dadhi, 
curds  ;  6.  Dugdha  or  Kshira,  milk;  7.  Jala,  fresh  water.  In 
the  Maha-bharata  four  Dwipas  are  named: — i.  Bhadraswa,  2. 
Ketu-mala,  3.  Jambu-dwipa,  4.  Uttara  Kuru.  Jambu-dwipa 
has  nine  varshas  or  subdivisions: — i.  Bharata,  2.  Kim-purusha, 
Kin-nara,  3.   Hari-varsha,    4.   Ila-vr^ta,   which   contains  Meru ; 

5.  Ramyaka,  6.  Hira/i-maya,  7.  Uttara  Kuru,  8.  Bhadrilswa,  9. 
Ketu-milla.  According  to  the  Yish?m  Pura?2a,  Bharata-varsha  or 
India  is  divided  into  nine  Dwipas  or  portions: — i.  Indra-dwipa, 
2.  Kaserumat,  3.  Tamra-var?2a,  4.  Gabhastimat,   5.  Il^aga-dwipa, 

6.  Saumya,  7.  Gandharva,  8.  Yaru7za;  9.  is  generally  left  without 
a  name  in  the  books,  but  Bhaskara  Acharya  calls  it  Kumaraka. 

DAVIYIDA.  I.  An  Asura  in  the  form  of  a  great  ape,  who 
was  an  implacable  foe  of  the  gods.  He  stole  Bala-rama's  plough- 
share weapon  and  derided  him.  This  was  the  beginning  of  a 
terrific  fight,  in  which  Dwivida  was  felled  to  the  earth,  and 
"  the  crest  of  the  mountain  on  which  he  fell  was  splintered  into 
a  hundred  pieces  by  the  weight  of  his  body,  as  if  the  Thunderer 
had  shivered  it  with  his  thunderbolt."     2.  A  monkey  ally  of  Rama. 

D YAUS.  The  sky,  heaven.  In  the  Yedas  he  is  a  masculine 
deity,  and  is  called  occasionally  Dyaus-j)it?"2',  '  heavenly  father,' 
the  earth  being  regarded  as  the  mother.  He  is  father  of  Ushas, 
the  dawn.  Cf.  Zsuc,  Deus,  Jovis,  Ju-piter.  Dyava-p?'ithivi, 
'heaven  and  earth,'  are  represented  as  the  universal  parents, 
not  only  of  men  but  of  gods;  but  in  other  places  they  are 
spoken  of  as  having  been  themselves  created;  and  then,  again, 
there  are  speculations  as  to  their  origin  and  2^nority.  In  one 
hymn  it  is  asked,  "AYliich  of  these  two  was  the  first  and 
which  the  last?  How  have  they  been  produced?  AAHio 
knows  ? "  The  >S'atapatha  Brrdima?ia  declares  in  favour  of  the 
earth,  saying,  "  This  earth  is  the  first  of  created  beings." 

EKA-CHAKRA.  A  city  in  the  country  of  the  Kichakas, 
where,  by  advice  of  Yyasa,  the  Pa?if?avas  dwelt  for  a  time  during 


EKA-DANSHTRA—GALA  VA.  103 

tlieir  exile.      General  Cunningliam  has  identified  it  with  the 
modern  Ara  or  Arrah. 

EKA-DANSHTRA,  EKA-DANTA.  'Having  one  tusk.'  A 
name  of  Gawe.sa. 

EKALAVYA.  Grandson  of  Deva-sravas,  the  brother  of  Yasii- 
deva.  He  was  brother  of  /S'atru-ghna.  He  was  exposed  in 
infancy,  and  was  brought  up  among  the  Nishadas,  of  whom  he 
became  king.  He  assisted  in  a  night  attack  upon  Dwaraka,  and 
was  eventually  killed  by  K^i'shr^a,  who  hurled  a  rock  at  him. 

EKAMRA,  EKAMRA  KANAKA.  A  forest  in  Utkala  or 
Orissa,  which  was  the  favourite  haunt  of  iSiva,  and  became  a 
great  seat  of  his  worship  as  the  city  of  Bhu vanes wara,  where 
some  very  fine  temples  sacred  to  him  still  remain.  They  have 
been  described  by  Babii  Rajendra  Lala  in  his  great  work  on 
Orissa. 

EKA-PADA.  '  One-footed.'  A  fabulous  race  of  men  spoken 
of  in  the  PuraTias. 

EKA-PARiVA,  EKA-PArALA.  These,  with  their  sister 
Aparwa,  were,  according  to  the  Hari-vansa,  daughters  of  Himavat 
and  Mena.  They  performed  austerities  surpassing  the  powers 
of  gods  and  Danavas,  and  alarmed  both  worlds.  Eka-par?ia, 
took  only  one  leaf  for  food,  and  Eka-pa/ala  only  one  pa^fala 
(Bignonia).  Apar?ia  took  no  sustenance  at  all  and  lived  a-parwa, 
'without  a  leaf.'  Her  mother  being  distressed  at  her  abstinence, 
exclaimed  in  her  anxiety,  "  U-ma  " — "  0  don't."  Through  this 
she  became  manifest  as  the  lovely  goddess  Uma,  the  wife  of 
^iva. 

EKASHrAKA.  A  deity  mentioned  in  the  Atharva-veda 
as  having  practised  austere  devotion,  and  being  the  daughter  of 
Prajapati  and  mother  of  Indra  and  Soma. 

EMUSHA.  In  the  BrahmaTia,  a  boar  which  raised  up  the 
earth,  represented  as  black  and  with  a  hundred  arms.  This 
is  probably  the  germ  of  the  Varaha  or  boar  incarnation.  See 
Avatara, 

GAD  A.     A  younger  brother  of  K?-ishwa. 

GADHI,  GATHIK  A  king  of  the  Kusika  race,  and  father 
of  Viswamitra.  He  Avas  son  of  Kusilmba,  or,  according  to  the 
Vis]i?iu  Purawa,  he  was  Indra,  who  took  upon  himself  that  form. 

GALAYA.  A  pupil  of  Viswamitra.  It  is  related  in  the 
jMaha-bhilrata  that  at  the  conclusion  of  his  studies  he  importuned 


104  GALA  VA—GAi\DHA-MADANA. 

his  master  to  say  wliat  present  he  should  make  him.  Yi.swa- 
mitra  was  annoyed,  and  told  him  to  bring  800  white  horses,  each 
having  one  black  ear.  In  his  perplexity  Galava  applied  to 
Garu^a,  who  took  him  to  King  Yayati  at  Pratish/hana.  The 
king  was  unable  to  provide  the  horses,  but  he  gave  to  Galava  his 
daughter  MadliavL  Galava  gave  her  in  marriage  successively 
to  Haryaswa,  king  of  Ayodhya,  Divo-dasa,  king  of  Kasi,  and 
Usinara,  king  of  Bhoja,  receiving  from  each  of  them  200  of  the 
horses  he  was  in  quest  of,  upon  the  birth  of  a  son  to  each  from 
Madhavi.  Notwithstanding  her  triple  marriage  and  maternity, 
Madhavi,  by  a  special  boon,  remained  a  virgin.  Galava  pre- 
sented her  and  the  horses  to  Yiswamitra.  The  sage  accepted 
them,  and  had  a  son  by  Madhavi,  who  was  named  Ash/aka. 
A\Th.en  Viswamitra  retired  to  the  woods,  he  resigned  his  her- 
mitage and  his  horses  to  Ash/aka,  and  Galava  having  taken 
Madhavi  back  to  her  father,  himself  retired  to  the  forest  as  his 
preceptor  had  done.  The  horses  were  first  obtained  by  the 
Brahman  it/chlka  from  the  god  Yaru?za.  They  were  originally 
1000  in  number,  but  his  descendants  sold  600  of  them,  and 
gave  the  rest  away  to  Brahmans. 

According  to  the  Hari-van,sa,  Galava  was  son  of  Yi.swamitra, 
and  that  sage  in  a  time  of  great  distress  tied  a  cord  round  his 
waist  and  offered  him  for  sale.  Prince  Satyavrata  (q.v.)  gave 
him  liberty  and  restored  him  to  his  father.  From  his  having 
been  bound  with  a  cord  {gala)  he  was  called  Galava. 

There  was  a  teacher  of  the  White  Yajur-veda  named  Galava, 
and  also  an  old  grammarian  named  by  Pa?iini. 

GAiYA-DEYATAS.  '  Troops  of  deities.'  Deities  who  gene- 
rally appear,  or  are  spoken  of,  in  classes.  Kine  such  classes  are 
mentioned: — (i.)  Adityas  ;  (2.)  Yiswas  or  A-^iswe-devas  ;  (3.) 
Yasus ;  (4.)  Tushitas ;  (5.)  Abhaswaras  ;  (6.)  Anilas ;  (7.) 
Maharajikas  ;  (8.)  Sadhyas  ;  (9.)  Rudras.  These  inferior  deities 
are  attendant  upon  iSiva,  and  under  the  command  of  Gawesa. 
They  dwell  on  Ga/ia-parvata,  i.e.,  Kailasa. 

GAYA-PATI.     See  Gae/isa. 

GAA'APATYA.  A  small  sect  who  worship  Gawa-pati  or 
Ganesa  as  their  chief  deity. 

GAYAS.     See  Ga/ia-devatas. 

GAYZ)AKL     The  river  Gandak  (vulg.  Gunduk),  in  Oude. 

GANDHA-MADAXA     'Intoxicating  with  fragrance.'     i.  A 


^  GANDHARA—GANDHARVA.  105 

mountain  and  forest  in  Ilavnta,  the  central  region  of  the  world, 
which  contains  the  mountain  Meru.  The  authorities  are  not 
agreed  as  to  its  relative  position  with  Meru.  2.  A  general  of  the 
monkey  allies  of  Rama.  He  was  killed  by  Ravawa's  son  Indra-jit, 
hut  was  restored  to  life  by  the  medicinal  herbs  brought  by  Hanu- 
man  from  Mount  Kailasa. 

GANDHARA,  GANDHARA.  A  country  and  city  on  the 
west  bank  of  the  Indus  about  Attock.  Mahomedan  geographers 
call  it  Kandahar,  but  it  must  not  be  confounded  with  the 
modern  town  of  that  name.  It  is  the  Gandaritis  of  the  ancients, 
and  its  people  are  the  Gandarii  of  Herodotus.  The  Vayu  Pur- 
a?za  says  it  was  famous  for  its  breed  of  horses. 

GANDHARI.  Princess  of  Gandhara.  The  daughter  of  Su- 
bala,  king  of  Gandhara,  wife  of  Dhrita-rash/ra,  and  mother  of 
his  hundred  sons.  Her  husband  was  blind,  so  she  always  wore 
a  bandage  over  her  eyes  to  be  like  him.  Her  husband  and  she, 
in  their  old  age,  l)oth  perished  in  a  forest  fire.  She  is  also 
called  by  the  patronymics  Saubali  and  Saubaleyi.  She  is  said 
to  have  owed  her  hundred  sons  to  the  blessing  of  Yyasa,  who, 
in  acknowledgment  of  her  kind  hospitality,  offered  her  a  boon. 
She  asked  for  a  hundred  sons.  Then  she  became  pregnant,  and 
continued  so  for  two  years,  at  the  end  of  which  time  she  was 
delivered  of  a  lump  of  flesh.  Vyasa  took  the  shapeless  mass 
and  divided  it  into  10 1  pieces,  which  he  placed  in  as  many 
jars.  In  due  time  Dur-yodhana  was  produced,  but  with  such 
accompanying  fearful  portents  that  Dlwita-rashifra  was  besought, 
though  in  vain,  to  abandon  him.  A  month  afterwards  ninety- 
nine  other  sons  came  forth,  and  an  only  daughter,  Du/i-sala. 

GANDHARYA.      The  '  heavenly  Gandharva '  of  the  Veda 
was  a  deity  who  knew  and  revealed  the  secrets  of  heaven  and 
divine  truths   in  general.     He  is  thought  by  Goldstiicker  to 
have  been  a  personification  of  the  fire  of  the  sun.     The  Gand- 
harvas  generally  had  their  dwelling  in  the  sky  or  atmosphere, 
and  one  of  their  offices  was  to  prepare  the  heavenly  soma  juice 
for  the  gods.     They  had  a  great  partiality  for  women,  and  had 
a  mystic  power  over  them.     The  Atharva-veda  speaks  of  "  the 
6333  Gandharvas."     The  Gandharvas  of  later  times  are  similar 
in    character;  they  have  charge   of  the  soma,   are   skilled   in 
medicine,  regulate  the  asterisms,  and  are  fond  of  women.    Those 
of  Indra's  heaven  are  generally  intended  by  the  term,  and  they 


io6  GANDHARVA—GANESA. 

are  singers  and  musicians  who  attend  the  banquets  of  the  gods. 
The  Pura?zas  give  contradictory  accounts  of  the  origin  of  the 
Gandharvas.  The  Vish?iu  Purar^a  says,  in  one  place,  that  they 
were  born  from  Brahma,  "  imbibing  melody.  Drinking  of  the 
goddess  of  speech  {gam  dhayantah),  they  Avere  born,  and  thence 
their  appellation."  Later  on  it  says  that  they  were  the  offspring 
of  KasA^apa  and  his  wife  Arish/a.  The  Hari-vansa  states  that 
they  sprang  from  Brahma's  nose,  and  also  that  they  ^vere  de- 
scended from  Muni,  another  of  Kasyapa's  wives.  Chitra-ratha 
was  chief  of  the  Gandliarvas ;  and  the  Apsarases  were  their 
wives  or  mistresses.  The  "  cities  of  the  Gandliarvas  "  are  often 
referred  to  as  being  very  splendid.  The  Vishwu  Pura^^a  has  a 
legend  of  the  Gandharvas  fighting  vvith  the  Nagas  in  the  in- 
fernal regions,  whose  dominions  they  seized  and  whose  treasures 
they  plundered.  The  ^N^aga  chiefs  appealed  to  YisliTiu  for  relief, 
and  he  promised  to  appear  in  the  person  of  Purukutsa  to  help  them. 
Thereupon  the  Nagas  sent  their  sister  Narmada  (the  ISTerbudda 
river)  to  this  Purukutsa,  and  she  conducted  him  to  the  regions 
below,  where  he  destroyed  the  Gandharvas.  They  are  sometimes 
called  Gatus  and  Pulakas.  In  the  Maha-bharata,  apparently,  a 
race  of  people  dwelling  in  the  hills  and  Avilds  is  so  called. 

GANDHARYA-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

GANDHARVA-VEDA  The  science  of  music  and  song, 
which  is  considered  to  include  the  drama  and  dancing.  It  is 
an  appendix  of  the  Sama-veda,  and  its  invention  is  ascribed  to 
the  Muni  Bharata. 

GANDIXI.  J.  Daughter  of  Kasi-raja  ;  she  had  been  twelve 
years  in  her  mother's  womb  when  her  father  desired  her  to 
come  forth.  The  child  told  her  father  to  present  to  the  Brahmans 
a  cow  every  day  for  three  years,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time  she 
would  be  born.  This  was  done,  and  the  child,  on  being  born, 
received  the  name  of  Gandini,  *cow  daily.'  She  continued  the 
gift  as  long  as  she  lived.  She  was  wife  of  ASVa-phallca  and 
mother  of  Akrura.      2.  The  Garn^^a  or  Ganges. 

GAiVi^iVA.  The  bow  of  Arjuna,  said  to  have  been  given  by 
Soma  to  Varuwa,  by  VaruTia  to  Agni,  and  by  Agni  to  Arjuna. 

GAAEaSA  (Gawa  +  La),  GA.YA-PATI.  Lord  of  the  Garias 
or  troops  of  inferior  deities,  especially  those  attendant  upon 
»S'iva.  Son  of  *S'iva  and  ParvatT,  or  of  I\~irvati  only.  One 
legend  represents  that  he  sprang  from  the  scurf  of  I^arvati's 


GANESA.  107 

"body.  He  is  the  god  of  wisdom  and  remover  of  obstacles  ; 
hence  he  is  invariably  j)ropitiated  at  the  beginning  of  any  im- 
portant undertaking,  and  is  invoked  at  the  commencement  of 
books.  He  is  said  to  have  written  down  the  Maha-bharata  from 
the  dictation  of  Yyasa.  He  is  represented  as  a  short  fat  man 
of  a  yellow  colour,  with  a  protuberant  belly,  four  hands,  and 
the  head  of  an  elephant,  which  has  only  one  tusk.  In  one  hand 
he  holds  a  shell,  in  another  a  discus,  in  the  third  a  club  or 
goad,  and  in  the  fourth  a  water-lily.  Sometimes  he  is  de- 
picted riding  upon  a  rat  or  attended  by  one ;  hence  his  appel- 
lation Akliu  ratha.  His  temples  are  very  numerous  in  the 
Dakhin.  There  is  a  variety  of  legends  accounting  for  his 
elephant  head.  One  is  that  his  mother  Parvati,  proud  of  her 
offspring,  asked  ^ani  (Saturn)  to  look  at  him,  forgetful  of  the 
effects  of  /S'ani's  glance.  ^Sani  looked  and  the  child's  head  was 
burnt  to  ashes.  Brahma  told  Parvati  in  her  distress  to  replace 
the  head  with  the  first  she  could  find,  and  that  was  an  elephant's. 
Another  story  is  that  Parvati  went  to  her  bath  and  told  her  son 
to  keep  the  door.  /S'iva  w^ished  to  enter  and  was  opposed,  so  he 
cut  off  Ga?iesa's  head.  To  pacify  Parvati  he  replaced  it  with  an 
elephant's,  the  first  that  came  to  hand.  Another  version  is  that 
his  mother  formed  him  so  to  suit  her  own  fancy,  and  a  further 
explanation  is  that  /S'iva  slew  Aditya  the  sun,  but  restored 
him  to  life  again.  For  this  violence  Ka.syapa  doomed  /S'iva's 
son  to  lose  his  head ;  and  when  he  did  lose  it,  the  head  of  Indra's 
elephant  w^as  used  to  replace  it.  The  loss  of  one  tusk  is  ac- 
counted for  by  a  legend  which  represents  Parasu-rama  as  coming 
to  Ivailasa  on  a  visit  to  iS'iva.  The  god  was  asleep  and  Gawesa 
opposed  the  entrance  of  the  visitor  to  the  inner  apartments. 
A  wrangle  ensued,  which  ended  in  a  fight.  "  Ga?2-esa  had  at  first 
the  advantage,  seizing  Parasu-rama  with  his  trunk  and  giving 
him  a  twirl  that  left  him  sick  and  senseless.  On  recovering, 
Parasu-rama  threw  his  axe  at  Ga?iesa,  who,  recognising  it  as  his 
father's  weapon  (/S'iva  having  given  it  to  Parasu-rama),  received 
it  with  all  humility  on  one  of  his  tusks,  which  it  immediately 
severed;  hence  Ga?iesa  has  but  one  tusk,  and  is  known  by  the 
name  of  Eka-danta  or  Eka-dansh/ra  (the  single-tuskecl).  These 
legends  are  narrated  at  length  in  the  Brahma  Yaivartta  Puraria. 
Gawesa  is  also  called  Gajanana,  Gaja-vadana,  and  Kari-mukha, 
*  elephant-faced;'  Heramba;'   'boastful;'    Lamba-karTia,  'long- 


I  oS  GA  NESA  -  GJTA— GA  AG  A. 

eared;'  Lambodara,  '  pendant  -  bellied  ; '  Dwi-delia,  'double- 
bodied;'"  Yiglmesa,  Vighna-hari,  'remover  of  obstacles.'  A  pecu- 
liar appellation  is  Dwai-matura,  '  having  two  mothers,'  in  allusion, 
it  is  said,  to  his  birth  from  the  scurf  of  Parvati's  body. 

GAiV^E.S'A-GITA.  The  Bhagavad-glta,  but  with  the  name 
of  GaTzesa  substituted  for  that  of  K?ishwa  It  is  used  by  the 
Ganapatyas  or  worshippers  of  Ganesa. 

GANESA  PURAiVA.  An  Upa  Pura?ia  having  especial  refer- 
ence to  the  glory  and  greatness  of  Gawesa. 

GAISTGA.  The  sacred  river  Ganges.  It  is  said  to  be  mentioned 
only  twice  in  the  ^zg-veda.  The  Pura7ias  represent  the  Yiyad- 
ganga,  or  heavenly  Ganges,  to  flow  from  the  toe  of  Yishwu,  and 
to  have  been  brought  down  from  heaven,  by  the  prayers  of  the 
saint  Bhagiratha,  to  purify  the  ashes  of  the  sixty  thousand  sons 
of  King  Sagara,  who  had  been  burnt  by  the  angry  glance  of  the 
sage  Kapila.  From  this  earthly  parent  the  river  is  called 
Bhagirathi.  Ganga  w^as  angry  at  being  brought  down  from 
heaven,  and  *Siva,  to  save  the  earth  from  the  shock  of  her  fall, 
caught  the  river  on  his  brow,  and  checked  its  course  with  his 
matted  locks.  From  this  action  he  is  called  Gancja-dhara, 
'upholder  of  the  Ganges.'  The  river  descended  from  A^iva's 
brow  in  several  streams,  four  according  to  some,  and  ten  accord- 
ing to  others,  but  the  number  generally  accepted  is  seven,  being 
the  Sapta-sindhava,  the  seven  sindhus  or  rivers.  The  Ganges 
proper  is  one  of  the  number.  The  descent  of  the  Ganges  dis- 
turbed the  sage  Jahnu  as  he  was  performing  a  sacrifice,  and  in 
Ills  anger  he  drank  up  the  waters,  but  he  relented  and  allowed 
the  river  to  flow  from  his  ear,  hence  the  Ganges  has  the  name 
of  JahnaA'T.  Personified  as  a  goddess,  Gangil  is  the  eldest 
daughter  of  Himavat  and  IMena,  and  her  sister  was  Uma.  She 
became  the  wife  of  King  /S^antanu  and  bore  a  son,  Bhishma;  who  is 
also  known  by  the  metronymic  Gangeya.  Being  also,  in  a  peculiar 
way,  the  mother  of  Kartikeya  (q.v.),  she  is  called  Kumara-sii. 
Gold,  according  to  the  Maha-bharata,  was  borne  by  the  goddess 
Ganga  to  Agni,  by  whom  she  had  been  impregnated.  Other 
names  and  titles  of  the  Ganges  are  Bliadra-soma,  GandinI, 
Kirati,  Deva-bhuti,  '  produced  in  heaven  ;'  Hara-sekhara,  '  crest  of 
/Siva;'  Khapaga,  'flowing  from  heaven;'  Mandiikinl,  'gently 
flowing  ; '  Tri-patha-ga  or  Tri-srotaA,  '  triple  flowing,'  running  in 
heaven,  earth,  and  liclL 


GANGA-DHARA  —  GARUDA.  109 

GANGA-DHARA.     A  name  of  /Siva.     See  Gaiiga. 

GA:N'GA-DWARA.  The  gate  of  the  Ganges.  The  opening 
in  the  Himalaya  mountains  through  which  the  river  descends 
into  the  plains,  now  known  as  Hardwar. 

GANGA-SAGARA.  The  mouth  of  the  Ganges,  a  holy 
bathing-place  sacred  to  Yishmi. 

GANGEYA.  i.  A  name  of  Bhishma,  from  his  reputed  mother, 
the  river  goddess  Ganga.      2.  Also  of  Karttikeya. 

GARGA.  An  ancient  sage,  and  one  of  the  oldest  writers  on 
astronomy.  He  was  a  son  of  Vitatha.  The  Vish?iu  Pura?ia 
says,  "  From  Garga  sprang  iSina  (or  >S'ini)  ;  from  them  were  de- 
scended the  Gargyas  and  /S'ainyas,  Brahmans  of  Kshatriya  race," 
The  statement  of  the  Bhagavata  is,  "  From  Garga  sprang  /S'ina  ; 
from  them  Gargya,  who  from  a  Kshatriya  became  a  Brahman." 
There  were  many  Gargas  ;  one  was  a  priest  of  Krish?2a  and 
the  Yadavas. 

GARGAS,  GARGYAS.  Descendants  of  Garga,  who, 
"  although  Kshatriyas  by  birth,  became  Brahmans  and  great 
^ishis. " 

GARGYA,  GARGYA  BALAKI.  Son  of  Balaki.  He  was  a 
Brahman,  renowned  as  a  teacher  and  as  a  grammarian,  who  dealt 
especially  with  etymology,  and  was  well  read  in  the  Veda,  but  still 
submitted  to  receive  instruction  from  the  Kshatriya  Ajata-satru. 

GARUi)A.  A  mythical  bird  or  vulture,  half-man,  half-bird, 
on  which  Yish?m  rides.  He  is  the  king  of  birds,  and  descended 
from  Kasyapa  and  Yinata,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Daksha. 
He  is  the  great  enemy  of  serpents,  having  inherited  his  hatred 
from  his  mother,  who  had  quarrelled  with  her  co-wife  and 
superior,  Kadru,  the  mother  of  serpents.  His  lustre  was  so 
brilliant  that  soon  after  his  birth  the  gods  mistook  him  for  Agni 
and  worshipped  him.  He  is  represented  as  having  the  head, 
wings,  talons,  and  beak  of  an  eagle,  and  the  body  and  limbs  of 
a  man.  His  face  is  white,  his  wings  red,  and  his  body  golden. 
He  had  a  son  named  Sampati,  and  his  wife  was  Unnati  or 
Yinayaka.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  his  parents  gave 
him  liberty  to  devour  bad  men,  but  he  was  not  to  touch  Brah- 
mans. Once,  however,  he  swallowed  a  Brahman  and  his  wife, 
but  the  Brrdiman  so  burnt  his  throat  that  he  was  glad  to  dis- 
gorge them  both. 

GraufZa  is  said  to  have  stolen  the  Amrita  from  the  gods  in 


no  CAR UDA  —  GA  UPAYA NA S. 

order  to  purchase  with  it  the  freedom  of  his  mother  from  Kadni. 
Indra  discovered  the  theft  and  fought  a  fierce  battle  wdth 
Garuc?a.  The  Amr/ta  was  recovered,  but  Indra  was  worsted  in 
the  fidit,  and  his  thunderbolt  was  smashed. 

Garur/a  has  many  names  and  epithets.  From  his  parents  he 
is  called  Ka-syapi  and  Yainateya.  He  is  the  SuparTia  and  the 
Garutman,  or  chief  of  birds.  He  is  also  called  Dakshaya,  AS'al- 
malin,  Tarkshya,  and  Yinayaka,  and  among  his  epithets  are 
the  following  : — Sitanana,  '  white  faced  ; '  Eakta-paksha,  '  red 
winged ; '    /Sweta-rohita,  '  the  white   and    red  ; '    Suvar;za-kaya, 

*  golden  bodied  ; '  Gaganeswara,  '  lord  of  the  sky ; '  Khageswara, 

*  king  of  birds ; '  ISTagantaka,  and  Pannaga-na^ana,  '  destroyer 
of  serpents  ; '  Sarparati,  '  enemy  of  serpents  ; '  Taraswin,  '  the 
swift ; '  Easayana,  '  who  moves  like  quicksilver ; '  Ivama-charin, 
'  who  goes  where  he  will ; '  Kamayus,  '  who  lives  at  pleasure ; ' 
Chirad,  '  eating  long ; '  Yish?iu-ratha,  '  vehicle  of  Yish7?.u ; ' 
Am?'2tahara?2a  and  Sudha-hara,  '  stealer  of  the  Am?'ita  ; '  Suren- 
dra-jit,  '  vanquisher  of  Indra  ; '  Yajra-jit,  '  subduer  of  the  thun- 
derbolt,' &c. 

GAEUZ^A  PUEAA^A.  The  description  given  of  this  Pura?2a 
is,  "  That  which  YisliTiu  recited  in  the  Garu^/a  Kalpa,  relating 
chiefly  to  the  birth  of  GarufZa  from  Yinata,  is  called  the  Garuf/a 
Pura?w,  and  in  it  there  are  read  19,000  stanzas."  The  works 
bearing  this  name  which  were  examined  by  Wilson  did  not  cor- 
respond in  any  respect  with  this  description,  and  he  considered 
it  doubtful  if  a  genuine  GarufZa  Purawa  is  in  existence. 

GATHA.  A  song,  a  verse.  A  religious  verse,  but  one  not 
taken  from  the  Yedas.  Yerses  interspersed  in  the  Sansk?7't 
] Buddhist  work  called  Lalita-vistara,  which  are  composed  in  a 
dialect  between  the  Sanskrit  and  the  Prak?-/t,  and  have  given 
their  name  to  this  the  Gatha  dialect.  The  Zend  hymns  of  the 
Zoroastrians  are  also  called  Gathas. 

GATU.     A  singer,  a  Gandharva. 

GAUD  A,  GAUitA.  The  ancient  name  of  Central  Eengal ; 
also  the  name  of  the  capital  of  the  country,  tlie  ruins  of  which 
city  are  still  visible.  The  great  northern  nation  of  Brahmans. 
^ce  Brahman. 

GAUPAYANAS.  Sons  or  descendants  of  Gopa.  Four 
ii/shis,  who  were  the  authors  of  four  remark-able  hymns  in  the 
.^/g-veda.      One  of  them,   named  Su-bandliu,   was  killed  and 


GA  URI—  GA  \  'A  TRL  1 1 1 

miraculously  "brought  to  life  again.  The  hymns  have  been 
translated  by  Max  Mliller  in  the  Journal  R.  A.  S.,  vol.  ii.  1866. 

GAXJRI.  The  '  yellow '  or  '  brilliant,'  a  name  of  the  consort 
of  /Siva.      (See  Devi.)     Varu7za's  wife  also  is  called  Gauri. 

GAUTAIMA.  *  I.  A  name  of  the  sage  iS'aradwat,  as  son  of 
Gotama.  He  was  husband  of  Ahalya,  who  was  seduced  by 
Indra.  This  seduction  has  been  explained  mythologically  as 
signifying  the  carrying  away  of  night  by  the  morning  sun,  Indra 
being  the  sun,  and  Ahalya  being  explained  as  meaning  night.  2. 
Author  of  a  Dharma-sastra,  which  has  been  edited  by  Stenzler. 
3.  A  name  common  to  many  mem 

GAUTAMEaS'A.  '  Lord  of  Gautama.'  Kame  of  one  of  the 
twelve  great  Lingas.     See  Linga. 

GAXJTAMI.  I.  An  epithet  of  Durga.  2.  Name  of  a  fierce 
Eakshasi  or  female  demon. 

GAY  A.  A  city  in  Biliar.  It  is  one  of  the  seven  sacred  cities, 
and  is  still  a  place  of  pilgrimage,  though  its  glory  has  departed. 

GAYATRl.  A  most  sacred  verse  of  the  itig-veda,  which  it 
is  the  duty  of  every  Brahman  to  rejieat  mentally  in  his  morning 
and  evening  devotions.  It  is  addressed  to  the  sun  as  Savitr2', 
the  generator,  and  so  it  is  called  also  Savitn.  Personified  as  a 
goddess,  Savit?Y  is  the  wife  of  Brahma,  mother  of  the  four  Yedas, 
and  also  of  the  twice-born  or  tliree  superior  castes.  Colebrooke's 
translation  of  the  Gayatri  is  "  Earth,  sky,  heaven.  Let  us  medi- 
tate on  (these,  and  on)  the  most  excellent  light  and  power  of  that 
generous,  sjjortive,  and  resplendent  sun,  (praying  that)  it  may 
guide  our  intellects."  Wilson's  version  is,  in  his  translation  of 
the  itig- veda,  "  We  meditate  on  that  desirable  light  of  the 
divine  Savitri  who  influences  our  pious  rites."  In  the  Yislmu 
Pura?za  he  had  before  given  a  somewhat  different  version,  "  We 
meditate  on  that  excellent  light  of  the  divine  sun  :  may  he 
illuminate  our  minds."  A  later  version  by  Benfey  is,  "  May  we 
receive  the  glorious  brightness  of  this,  the  generator,  of  the  god 
who  shall  jDrosjDcr  our  works." 

Wilson  observes  of  it:  "  The  commentators  admit  some  variety 
of  inter^Dretation ;  but  it  probably  meant,  in  its  original  use,  a 
simj)le  invocation  of  the  sun  to  shed  a  benignant  influence  upon 
the  customary  offices  of  worshij) ;  and  it  is  still  employed  by  the 
unphilosbphical  Hindus  with  merely  that  signification.  Later 
notions,  and  es2:)ecially  those  of  the  Yedanta,  have  ojDcrated  to 


112  CHA  TA-KARPARA—GITA-GO  vinda. 

attach  to  the  text  an  import  it  did  not  at  first  possess,  and  have 
converted  it  into  a  mystical  propitiation  of  the  spiritual  origin 
and  essence  of  existence,  or  Brahma."  It  is  considered  so  holy 
that  copyists  often  refrain  from  transcribing  it. 

The  name  given  to  ^Sata-rupa  (q.v.),  Brahma's  female  half, 
daughter,  and  consort,  as  "  the  declarer  of  sacred  knowledge." 
It  is  also  applied  to  the  consort  of  ^S'iva  in  the  Hari-vansa, 

GHArA-KAEPAEA.  A  poet,  who  was  one  of  the  "  nine 
gems  "  of  the  court  of  Vikramaditya.  There  is  a  short  artificial 
poem,  descriptive  of  the  rainy  season,  bearing  this  name,  which 
has  been  translated  into  German  by  Dursch.  The  words  mean 
'  potsherds,'  and  form  probably  an  assumed  hterary  name. 

GHArOTKACHA  A  son  of  Bhima  by  the  Eakshasi 
Hic/imba.  He  was  killed  in  the  great  battle  by  Kar?ia  with  the 
fatal  lance  that  warrior  had  obtained  from  Indra. 

GHOSHA.  It  is  said  in  the  Veda  that  the  Aswins  "  bestowed 
a  husband  upon  Ghosha  growing  old,"  and  the  explanatory 
legend  is  that  she  was  a  daughter  of  Kakshivat,  but  being  a 
leper,  was  incapable  of  marriage.  A^Tien  she  was  advanced  in 
years  the  Aswins  gave  her  health,  youth,  and  beauty,  so  that  she 
obtained  a  husband 

GHit/TACHl  An  Apsaras  or  celestial  nymph.  She  had 
many  amours  with  great  sages  and  mortal  men.  She  was  mother 
of  ten  sons  by  Eaudraswa  or  Kiisa-nabha,  a  descendant  of  Puru, 
and  the  Brahma  Vaivartta  Purarza  attributes  the  origin  of  some 
of  the  mixed  castes  to  her  issue  by  the  sage  Yiswa-karman.  The 
Hari-van.sa  asserts  that  she  had  ten  daughters  as  well  as  ten  sons 
by  Eaudra-swa.  Another  legend  represents  her  as  mother  by 
Ku.sa-nabha  of  a  hundred  daughters,  whom  Yiiyu  wished  to 
accompany  him  to  the  sky.  They  refused,  and  in  his  rage  he 
cursed  them  to  become  deformed;  but  they  recovered  their 
natural  shape  and  beauty,  and  were  married  to  Brahma-datta, 
king  of  Kampila. 

GIEI-JA  'Mountain  born.'  A  name  of  ParvatI  or  Devi. 
S&e  Devi. 

GIEI-VEAJA.  A  royal  city  in  Magadha,  identified  with 
Eaja-griha  in  Bihar. 

GiTA.     The  Bhagavad-glta  (q.v.). 

GiTA-GOVINDA.  A  lyrical  poem  by  Jaya-deva'  on  the 
early  life  of  K?7'sh7ia  as  Go  vinda  the  cowherd.     It  is  an  erotic 


GOBHILA—GOTAMA.  113 

work,  and  sings  the  loves  of  K7"isli?ia  with  Radha,  and  other  of 
the  cowherd  damsels,  but  a  mystical  interpretation  has  been  put 
upon  it.  The  poems  are  supposed  to  have  been  written  about 
the  twelfth  or  thirteenth  century.  There  are  some  translations 
in  the  Asiatic  Researches  by  Sir  W.  Jones,  and  a  small  volume 
of  translations  has  been  lately  published  by  Mr.  Edwin  Arnold. 
There  is  also  an  edition  of  the  text,  with  a  Latin  translation  and 
notes,  by  Lassen,  and  there  are  some  others. 

GOBHILA.  An  ancient  writer  of  the  Siitra  period.  He  was 
author  of  some  G?'*hya  Sutras,  and  of  some  Siitras  on  gram- 
mar. The  G?7'hya  Siitras  have  been  published  in  the  Bihliotheca 
Indica. 

GO-KARiYA.  *  Cow's  ear.'  A  place  of  pilgrimage  sacred  to 
/S'iva,  on  the  west  coast,  near  Mangalore. 

GO-KULA.  A  pastoral  district  on  the  Yamuna,  about  Ma- 
thura,  where  Kn'sh?za  passed  his  boyhood  with  the  cowherds. 

GO-LOKA.  'The  place  of  cows.'  K?'ish?ia's  heaven;  a 
modern  addition  to  the  original  series  of  seven  Lokas. 

GO-MANTA.  A  great  mountain  in  the  Western  Ghats. 
Accordinq;  to  the  Hari-vansa  it  was  the  scene  of  a  defeat  of 
Jara-sandlia  by  K?7'sliiza. 

GO-MATl.  The  Giimti  river  in  Oude ;  but  there  are  others 
which  bore  the  name.     One  fell  into  the  Sindhu  or  Indus. 

GO-PALA,  GO-Yi:^DA.  '  Cow-keeper.'  A  name  of  the 
youthful  Krish?ia,  who  lived  among  the  cowherds  in  Yrinda- 
vana. 

GOPALA-TAPANI  An  ITpanishad  in  honour  of  Knsh?ia. 
Printed  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica, 

GO-PATHA  BRAHMAiV^A.  The  Brahmawa  of  the  Atharva 
or  fourth  Yeda.  It  has  been  published  by  Rajendra  Lala  in  the 
Bihliotheca  Indica. 

GOPATI-i^/SHABHA.  '  Chief  of  herdsmen.'  i.  A  title  of 
/S'iva.  2.  A  demon  mentioned  in  the  Maha-bharata  as  slain  by 
K?'ishwa. 

GOPIS.  The  cowherd  damsels  and  wives  with  whom 
Iv?'ish??a  sported  in  his  youth. 

GOTAMA.  The  founder  of  the  Nyaya  school  of  philosophy. 
He  is  called  also  /S'atananda,  and  is  author  of  a  Dharma-sastra 
or  law-book,  which  has  been  edited  by  Stenzler.  He  is  fre- 
quently called  Gautama. 

H 


114  GO-VARDHANA—GRITSA-MADA. 

GO-YARDHAXA.  A  mountain  in  Vrindavana,  wliicli 
Knshwa  induced  the  cowherds  and  cowherdesses  to  worship 
instead  of  Indra.  This  enraged  the  god,  who  sent  a  deluge 
of  rain  to  wash  away  the  mountain  and  all  the  people  of  the 
country,  but  K?'ish7ia  held  up  the  mountain  on  his  little  finger 
for  seven  days  to  shelter  the  people  of  V^'/ndavana.  Indra 
retired  baffled,  and  afterwards  did  homage  to  K?tshria. 

GOA^ARDHAXA-DHARA  '  Upholder  of  Govardhana.'  A 
title  of  K?-zsh?ia. 

GO-YINDA      '  Cow-keeper.'     A  name  of  K?-ish?ia. 

GRAHA.  'Seizing.'  i.  The  power  that  seizes  and  obscures 
the  sun  and  moon,  causing  eclipses ;  the  ascending  node,  Rahu. 
2.  Evil  spirits  with  which  people,  especially  children,  are  pos- 
sessed, and  which  cause  sickness  and  death.  They  are  supposed 
to  be  amenable  to  medicine  and  exorcism. 

Git/HA-STHA.  'Householder.'  A  Brahman  in  the  second 
stage  of  his  religious  life.     See  Brahman. 

Gi?/HYA  SUTRAS.  Rules  for  the  conduct  of  domestic 
rites  and  the  personal  sacraments,  extending  from  the  birth  to 
the  marriage  of  a  man.  {See  Sfitra.)  The  Grihya  Siitras  of 
A.swalayana  have  been  printed  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica. 

Gi^/TS A-MADA.  The  reputed  Rkhi  of  many  hymns  in  the 
second  ]\Ia?^f/ala  of  the  jRig-veda.  According  to  the  Yish?ni 
PuraTza  he  was  a  Kshatriya  and  son  of  iSuna-hotra,  being  de- 
scended from  Puriiravas  of  the  Lunar  race.  From  him  sprang 
/S'aunaka,  the  eminent  sage  versed  in  the  iifg-veda  "  who  origi- 
nated the  system  of  four  castes."  The  Yayu  PuraTza  makes 
/S'unaka  to  be  the  son  of  G?'itsa-mada,  and  /S'aunaka  the  son  of 
^Sunaka  :  this  seems  probable.  "It  is  related  of  him  by  Siiyawa 
that  he  was  first  a  member  of  the  family  of  Angiras,  being  the 
'  son  of  ^Suna-hotra.  He  was  carried  off  by  the  Asuras  whilst 
]>erforming  a  sacrifice,  but  was  rescued  by  Indra,  under  whose 
authority  he  was  henceforth  designated  as  G?*itsa-mada,  the  son 
of  iS'unaka  or  6'aunaka  of  the  race  of  Bh?7gu.  Thus  the  Anukra- 
mamka  says  of  him  :  He  who  was  an  Angirasa,  the  son  of 
iSuna-hotra,  became  /S'aunaka  of  the  race  of  Bb?igu."  According 
to  the  Maha-bharata,  he  was  son  of  Yita-havya,  a  king  of  the 
Ilaihayas,  a  Kshatriya,  who  became  a  Brahman.  {See  Yita- 
havya.)  The  Maha-bharata  alludes  to  a  legend  of  his  having 
assumed  the  semblance  of  Indra,  and  so  enabled  that  deity  to 


GUDA-KESA—HAIHA  YA.  115 

escape  from  the  Asuras,  who  were  lying  in  wait  to  destroy  him. 
There  are  several  versions  of  the  story,  but  they  all  agree  that 
after  Indra  had  escaped  G?*itsa-mada  saved  himself  by  reciting 
a  hymn  in  w^hich  he  showed  that  Indra  was  a  different  person. 

GUi)A-KE/S'A.  '"WHiose  hair  is  in  tufts.'  An  epithet  of 
Arjuna. 

GUI! A.  'Secret.'  i.  A  name  of  the  god  of  war.  {See, 
Karttikeya.)  2.  A  king  of  the  Mshadas  or  Bhils,  who  was 
a  friend  of  Eama.  3.  A  people  near  Kalinga,  who  possibly 
got  their  name  from  him. 

GUHYAKAS.  'Hidden  beings.'  Inferior  divinities  atten- 
dant upon  Kuvera,  and  guardians  of  his  hidden  treasures. 

GUPTAS.  A  dynasty  of  kings  who  reigned  in  Magadha. 
The  period  of  their  ascendancy  has  been  a  subject  of  great  con- 
tention, and  cannot  be  said  to  be  settled. 

GURJJARA.     The  country  of  Gujarat. 

HAIHAYA.  This  name  is  supposed  to  be  derived  from 
haya,  '  a  horse.'  i.  A  prince  of  the  Lunar  race,  and  great-grandson 
of  Yadu.  2.  A  race  or  tribe  of  people  to  whom  a  Scythian  origin 
has  been  ascribed.  The  Vishnu  Purawa  represents  them  as  de- 
scendants of  Haihaya  of  the  Yadu  race,  but  they  are  generally 
associated  with  borderers  and  outlying  tribes.  In  the  Vayu  and 
other  Pura?2as,  five  great  divisions  of  the  tribe  are  named  :  Tala- 
janghas,  Yiti-hotras,  Avantis,  Tu?2(iikeras,  and  Jatas,  or  rather 
Su-jatas.  They  conquered  Biihu  or  Bahuka,  a  descendant  of 
King  Haris-chandra,  and  were  in  their  turn  conquered,  along  with 
many  other  barbarian  tribes,  by  King  Sagara,  son  of  Bahu. 
According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  they  were  descended  from  *S'ar- 
yati,  a  son  of  Manu.  They  made  incursions  into  the  Doab,  and 
they  took  the  city  of  Kasi  (Benares),  which  had  been  fortified 
against  them  by  King  Divo-dasa ;  but  the  grandson  of  this  king, 
Pratardana  by  name,  destroyed  the  Haihayas,  and  re-estal)lished 
the  kingdom  of  Ka.?I.  Arjuna-Kartavirya,  of  a  thousand  arms, 
was  king  of  the  Haihayas,  and  he  was  defeated  and  had  his 
arms  cut  off  by  Parasu-rama. 

The  Yindhya  mountains  would  seem  to  have  been  the  home 
of  these  tribes ;  and  according  to  Colonel  Todd,  a  tribe  of  Hai- 
hayas still  exists  "  near  the  very  top  of  the  valley  of  Sohagpoor, 
in  Bhagelkhand,  aware  of  their  ancient  lineage,  and,  though 
few  i".  number,  still  celebrated  for  their  valour." 


1 16  HALA-BHRIT—HANUMAN. 

HALA-BIIi^/T.     'Bearing  a  plough.'     Bala-rama. 

HALAYUDHA.  '  "WTio  has  a  ploughshare  for  his  weapon/ 
i.e.,  Bala-rama. 

HAXSA.  I.  This,  according  to  the  Bhagavata  Purii/za,  was 
the  name  of  the  "  one  caste,"  when,  in  olden  times,  there  was 
only  "one  Veda,  one  God,  and  one  caste."  2.  A  name  used 
in  the  Mahu-bharata  for  Krish^za.  3.  A  mountain  range  north 
of  ]\reru. 

HAXSA.  Hansa  and  Dimbhaka  were  two  great  warrior- 
brothers  mentioned  in  the  ]\Iaha-bharata  as  friends  of  Jara-sandha. 
A  certain  king  also  named  Hansa  was  killed  by  Bala-rama. 
Hearing  that  "  Hansa  was  killed,"  Dimbliaka,  unable  to  live 
w^ithout  him,  committed  suicide,  and  when  Hansa  heard  of  this 
he  drowned  himself  in  the  Yamuna. 

HAXUMAX,  HAXUMAT,  HAXUMAT.  A  celebrated 
monkey  chief.  He  was  son  of  Pavana,  '  the  wind,'  by  Anjana, 
wife  of  a  monkey  named  Kesari.  He  was  able  to  fly,  and  is 
a  conspicuous  figure  in  the  Ramaya?za.  He  and  the  other 
monkeys  who  assisted  Rama  in  his  war  against  Rava??a  were  of 
divine  origin,  and  their  powers  were  superhuman.  Hanuman 
jumped  from  India  to  Ceylon  in  one  bound  ;  he  tore  up  trees, 
carried  away  the  Himalayas,  seized  the  clouds,  and  performed 
many  other  wonderful  exploits.  {^See  Surasa.)  His  form  is  "  as 
vast  as  a  mountain  and  as  tall  as  a  gigantic  tower.  His  com- 
plexion is  yellow  and  glowing  like  molten  gold.  His  face  is  as 
red  as  the  brightest  ruby  ;  while  his  enormous  tail  spreads  out 
to  an  interminable  length.  He  stands  on  a  lofty  rock  and  roars 
like  thunder.  He  leaps  into  the  air,  and  flies  among  the  clouds 
with  a  rushing  noise,  whilst  the  ocean  waves  are  roaring  and 
splashing  below."  In  one  of  his  fights  with  Rriva??a  and  the 
Eakshasas,  they  greased  his  tail  and  set  it  on  fire,  but  to  their 
own  great  injury,  for  with  it  he  burnt  down  tlieir  capital  city, 
Lanka.  This  exploit  obtained  for  him  the  name  Lankil-drdiL 
His  services  to  Eiima  were  OTcat  and  man  v.  He  acted  as  liis 
si)y,  and  fought  most  valiantly.  He  flew  to  the  Himrdayas, 
from  whence  he  brought  medicinal  herbs  witli  which  he  restored 
the  wounded,  and  he  killed  tlie  monster  Killa-nemi,  and  thou- 
sands of  Gandharvas  who  assailed  him.  He  accomi)anied  Riima 
on  his  return  to  Ayodhya,  and  there  he  received  from  liim  the 
reward  of  perpetual  life  and  youth.     The  exploits  of  Hanuman 


HANUMAN-NATAKA—HARI-HARA.  117 

are  favoiirito  topics  among  Hindus  from  cliildliood  to  age,  and 
paintings  of  tliem  are  common.  He  is  called  Marut-putra,  and 
lie  has  the  patronymics  Anili,  Maruti,  &c.,  and  the  metronymic 
Anjaneya.  He  is  also  Yoga-chara,  from  his  power  in  magic  or 
in  the  healing  art,  and  Eajata-dyiiti,  '  the  brilliant.'  Among  his 
other  accomplishments,  Hanumat  was  a  grammarian ;  and  the 
RamayaTia  says,  "The  chief  of  monkeys  is  perfect;  no  one 
equals  him  in  the  sastras,  in  learning,  and  in  ascertaining  the 
sense  of  the  scriptures  [or  in  moving  at  will].  In  all  sciences, 
in  the  rules  of  austerity,  he  rivals  the  preceptor  of  the  gods. 

...  It  is  well  known  that  Hanumat  was  the  ninth  author 
of  grammar." — Muir,  iv.  490. 

HANUMA:N'-NATAKA.  a  long  drama  by  various  hands 
upon  the  adventures  of  the  monkey  chief  Hanuman.  This 
drama  is  fabled  to  have  been  composed  by  Hanuman,  and  in- 
scribed by  him  on  rocks.  Valmiki,  the  author  of  the  Eamaya?m, 
saw  it  and  feared  that  it  would  throw  his  own  poem  into  the 
shade.  He  complained  to  the  author,  who  told  him  to  cast  the 
verses  into  the  sea.  He  did  so,  and  they  remained  concealed 
there  for  ages.  Portions  were  discovered  and  brought  to  King 
Ehoja,  who  directed  Damodara  Mi.sra  to  arrange  them  and  fill 
up  the  lacunEe.  He  did  so,  and  the  result  was  this  drama. 
"  It  is  probable,"  says  Wilson,  "  that  the  fragments  of  an  ancient 
drama  were  connected  in  the  manner  described.  Some  of  the 
ideas  are  poetical,  and  the  sentiments  just  and  forcible ;  the 
language  is  generally  very  harmonious,  but  the  Avork  itself  is, 
after  all,  a  most  disjointed  and  nondescrijDt  composition,  and  the 
patchwork  is  very  glaringly  and  clumsily  put  together."  It  is  a 
work  of  the  tenth  or  eleventh  century.  It  has  been  printed  in 
India. 

HARA.     A  name  of  /Siva. 

HAEI.  A  name  which  commonly  designates  Yishmi,  but  it 
is  exceptionally  used  for  other  gods. 

HAEI-D WAEA.  '  The  Jiate  of  Hari, '  The  modern  Hardwcar. 
The  place  where  the  Ganges  finally  breaks  through  the  moun- 
tains into  the  plains  of  Hindustan.  It  is  a  great  j^lace  of 
pilgrimage. 

HAEI-HAEA.  A  combination  of  the  names  of  Vishwu  and 
iS'iva,  and  representing  the  union  of  the  two  deities  in  one,  a 
combination  which  is  differently  accounted  for. 


1 1 8  HARIS-CHANDRA. 

HAEI5'-CHAXDRA.  Twenty-eighth  king  of  the  Solar  race, 
and  son  of  Tri-5anku.  He  was  celebrated  for  his  piety  and 
justice.  There  are  several  legends  about  him.  The  Aitarej^a 
Brahma?ia  tells  the  story  of  his  purchasing  /SunaA-sephas  to  be 
offered  up  as  a  vicarious  sacrifice  for  his  own  son.  {See  SiinpJi- 
sephas.)  The  ]\Iaha-bharata  relates  that  he  was  raised  to  the 
heaven  of  Indra  for  his  performance  of  the  Eaja-siiya  sacrifice 
and  for  his  unbounded  liberality.  The  'Mivrkandeja,  Purawa 
expands  the  story  at  considerable  length.  One  day  while  Haris- 
chandra  was  hunting  he  heard  female  lamentations,  which  pro- 
ceeded "  from  the  Sciences,  who  w^ere  being  mastered  by  the 
austerely  fervid  sage  Viswamitra,  and  were  crying  out  in  alarm 
at  his  superiority. "  Hari.'^-chandra,  as  defender  of  the  distressed, 
went  to  the  rescue,  but  A^iswamitra  was  so  provoked  by  his 
interference  that  the  Sciences  instantly  perished,  and  Hari^- 
chandra  was  reduced  to  a  state  of  abject  helplessness.  Yi.swa- 
niitra  demanded  the  sacrificial  gift  due  to  him  as  a  Brahman, 
and  the  king  offered  him  whatever  he  might  choose  to  ask, 
"  gold,  his  ow^i  son,  wife,  body,  life,  kingdom,  good  fortune," 
wdiatever  was  dearest.  Yiswamitra  stripped  him  of  wealth  and 
kingdom,  leaving  him  nothing  but  a  garment  of  bark  and  his 
wife  and  son.     In  a  state  of  destitution  he  left  his  kinsjdom, 

>  0  7 

and  Viswamitra  struck  A^aibya,  the  queen,  with  his  staff  to  hasten 
her  reluctant  departure.  To  escape  from  his  oppressor  he  pro- 
ceeded to  the  holy  city  of  Benares,  but  the  relentless  sage  was 
waiting  for  him  and  demanded  the  completion  of  the  gift. 
"With  bitter  grief  wife  and  child  were  sold,  and  there  remained 
only  himself.  Dharma,  the  god  of  justice,  aj^peared  in  the 
form  of  a  hideous  and  offensive  Clmndala,  and  offered  to  buy 
him.  Notwithstanding  the  exile's  repugnance  and  liorror, 
Viswamitra  insisted  upon  the  sale,  and  Haris-chandra  was 
carried  off  "  bound,  beaten,  confused,  and  afflicted,"  to  the 
abode  of  the  Chanddla.  He  was  sent  by  his  master  to  steal 
grave-clothes  from  a  cemetery.  In  tliis  horrid  place  and  de- 
grading work  he  spent  twelve  months.  His  wife  then  came 
to  tlio  cemetery  to  perform  the  obsequies  of  her  son,  who  liad 
died  from  the  bite  of  a  serpent.  They  recognised  each  other, 
and  Hari.s-chandra  and  his  wife  resolved  to  die  upon  the  funeral 
pyre  of  their  son,  though  he  hesitated  to  take  away  his  own  life 
witliout  tlie  consent  of  liis  master.     After  all  was  prejDared,  he 


HARIS-CHANDRA—HARI-  VANS  A.  119 

gave  himself  up  to  meditation  on  Vislirm.  The  gods  then 
arrived,  headed  by  Dharma  and  accompanied  by  Yiswamitra. 
Dharma  entreated  him  to  refrain  from  his  intention,  and  Indra 
informed  him  "  that  he,  his  wife,  and  son,  had  conquered  heaven 
by  their  good  works."  Hari.s-chandra  declared  that  he  conld  not 
go  to  heaven  without  the  permission  of  his  master  the  Cha?i(Zala. 
Dharma  then  revealed  himself.  A¥hen  this  difficulty  was 
removed,  Haris-chandra  objected  to  go  to  heaven  without  his 
faithful  subjects.  "  This  request  was  granted  by  Indra,  and 
after  Viswamitra  had  inaugurated  Rohitaswa,  the  king's  son,  to 
be  his  successor,  Haris-chandra,  his  friends,  and  followers,  all 
ascended  in  company  to  heaven."  There  he  was  induced  by 
the  sage  Narada  to  boast  of  his  merits,  and  this  led  to  his 
expulsion  from  heaven.  As  he  was  falling  he  repented  of  his 
fault  and  waTs  forgiven.  His  downward  course  was  arrested, 
and  he  and  his  followers  dwell  in  an  aerial  citv,  which,  accord- 
ing  to  popular  belief,  is  still  visible  occasionally  in  mid-air. 

HAEITA,  HARiTA.  i.  A  son  of  Yuvana-swa  of  the  Solar 
race,  descended  from  Ikshwaku.  From  him  descended  the 
Harita  Angirasas.  In  the  Linga  Pura?^a  it  is  said,  "  The  son  of 
Yuvariaswa  was  Harita,  of  whom  the  Haritas  were  sons.  They 
were,  on  the  side  of  Angiras,  twice-born  men  (Brahmans)  of 
Ivshatriya  lineage  ;  "  or  according  to  the  Vayu,  "  they  were  the 
sons  of  Angiras,  twice-born  men  (Brahmans),  of  Kshatriya  race," 
possibly  meaning  that  they  were  sons  raised  up  to  Harita  by 
Angiras.  According  to  some  he  was  a  son  of  Chyavana.  2. 
Author  of  a  Dharma-sastra  or  law-book. 

HAEITAS,  HARITA-ANGIRASES.     See  Harita. 

HARITS,  HARITAS.  '  Green.'  In  the  i^ig-veda  the  horses, 
or  rather  mares,  of  the  sun,  seven  or  ten  in  number,  and  typical 
of  his  rays.  "  The  prototype  of  the  Grecian  Charites." — Max 
Milller. 

HARI-VA]Sr>SA.  The  genealogy  of  Hari  or  Vish?zu,  a  long 
poeni  of  16,374  verses.  It  purports  to  be  a  part  of  the  Maha- 
bharata,  but  it  is  of  much  later  date,  and  "  may  more  accurately 
be  ranked  with  the  Paura?uk  compilations  of  least  authenticity 
and  latest  date."  It  is  in  three  parts  ;  the  first  is  introductory, 
and  gives  particulars  of  the  creation  and  of  the  patriarchal  and 
regal  dynasties ;  the  second  contains  the  life  and  adventures  of 
K?'ish?za ;  and  the  last  and  the  third  treats  of  the  future  of  the 


1 20  HARSHANA—HA  Y AS  IRAS. 

world  and  the  corruptions  of  the  Kali  age.  It  contains  many 
indications  of  its  having  been  written  in  the  south  of  India. 

HAESHAiVA.  A  deity  who  presides  over  the /S'raddha  offerings. 

HARYAjS'WA.  a  grandson  of  the  Kuvalayaswa  who  killed 
the  demon  Dhundhu.  The  country  of  Panchala  is  said  to  have 
been  named  from  his  five  {panclia)  sons.  There  were  several 
others  of  this  name. 

HARYA*SWAS.  Five  thousand  sons  of  the  patriarch 
Daksha,  begotten  by  him  for  the  purpose  of  peopling  the  earth. 
The  sage  Narada  dissuaded  them  from  producing  offspring,  and 
they  "  dispersed  themselves  through  the  regions  and  have  not 
returned." 

HASTIM-PUEA.  The  capital  city  of  the  Kauravas,  for 
which  the  great  war  of  the  Maha-bharata  was  waged.  It  was 
founded  by  Hastin,  son  of  the  first  Bharata,  and  hence,  as  some 
say,  its  name ;  but  the  Maha-bharata  and  the  Vish?m  Pura?2a 
call  it  the  "  elephant  city,"  from  hastin,  an  elephant.  The  ruins 
are  traceable  near  an  old  bed  of  the  Ganges,  about  57  miles 
N.E.  of  Delhi,  and  local  tradition  has  preserved  the  name.  It 
is  said  to  have  been  washed  away  by  the  Ganges. 

HASYARiVAVA.  ^  Ocean  of  laughter.'  A  modern  comic 
piece  in  two  acts,  by  a  Vdrndii  named  Jagadisa.  ''It  is  a  severe 
but  grossly  indelicate  satire  upon  the  licentiousness  of  Brah- 
mans  assuming  the  character  of  religious  mendicants." — JFilson. 

HAYIR.BHUJ,  HAYISH-MATA.  PitWs  or  Manes  of  the 
Kshatriyas,  and  inhabitants  of  the  solar  sphere.     See  Pitris. 

HAYA-GRlYA.  '  Horse-necked.'  According  to  one  legend, 
a  Daitya  who  stole  the  Yeda  as  it  slipped  out  of  the  mouth  of 
Brahma  while  he  was  sleeping  at  the  end  of  a  kalpa,  and  was 
killed  by  YishTiu  in  the  Fish  Avatara.  According  to  another, 
Yishwu  himself,  who  assumed  this  form  to  recover  the  Veda, 
which  had  been  carried  off  by  two  Daityas. 

HAYA-.SIRAS,  IIAYA-^lRSIIA.  'Horse-head'  In  the 
Maha-bharata  it  is  recorded  that  the  sage  Aurva  (q.v.)  "cast  the 
fire  of  his  anger  into  the  sea,"  and  that  it  there  "  became  the 
great  Haya-siras,  known  to  those  acquainted  with  the  A^eda, 
which  vomits  forth  that  fire  and  drinks  up  the  waters."  A  form 
of  Vish?iu. 

In  the  Bhagavata  Puriiwa  Brahma  is  represented  as  saying, 

In  my  sacrifice  Bhagavat  himself  was  Haya-6'irslia,  the  male  of 


II 


HEMA-CHANDRA—HIRANYAKSHA.  1 2 1 

the  sacrifice,  whose  colour  is  that  of  gold,  of  whom  the  Yedas 
and  the  sacrifices  are  the  substance  and  the  gods  the  sonl ; 
when  he  respired,  charming  words  came  forth  from  his  nostrils." 

HELIA-CHANDRA.  Author  of  a  good  Sansk?-it  vocabulary, 
printed  under  the  superintendence  of  Colebrooke. 

HEMADRI.     'The  golden  mountain,'  /.g,,  Meru. 

HEMA-KU2A.  'Golden  peak.'  A  chain  of  mountains  re- 
presented as  lying  north  of  the  Himalayas,  between  them  and 
Mount  Meru. 

HIDIMBA  (mas.),  HIDIMBA  (fem.).  A  powerful  Asura, 
who  had  yellow  eyes  and  a  horrible  aspect.  He  was  a  cannibal, 
and  dwelt  in  the  forest  to  which  the  Pa?i(iavas  retired  after  the 
burning  of  their  house.  He  had  a  sister  named  Hif/imba,  whom 
he  sent  to  lure  the  Pa7ic?avas  to  liim ;  but  on  meeting  with  Bhima, 
she  fell  in  love  with  him,  and  offered  to  carry  him  away  to 
safety  on  her  back.  Bhima  refused,  and  while  they  were  par- 
leying, Hifiimba  came  up,  and  a  terrible  fight  ensued,  in  which 
Bhima  killed  the  monster.  Hic^imba  was  at  first  much  terrified 
and  fled,  but  she  returned  and  claimed  Bhima  for  her  husband. 
By  his  mother's  desire  Bhima  married  her,  and  by  her  had  a 
son  named  Gha/otkacha. 

HIMACHALA,  HIMADRI.     The  Himalaya  mountains. 

HIMAVAT.  The  personification  of  the  Himalaya  mountains, 
husband  of  Mena  or  Menaka,  and  father  of  Uma  and  Ganga. 

HIRAi\^YA-GARBHA.  'Golden  egg'  or  'golden  womb.' 
In  the  i^ig-veda  Hira?iya-garbha  "  is  said  to  have  arisen  in  the 
beginning,  the  one  lord  of  all  beings,  who  upholds  heaven 
and  earth,  who  gives  life  and  breath,  whose  command  even  the 
gods  obey,  who  is  the  god  over  all  gods,  and  the  one  animating 
principle  of  their  being."  According  to  Manu,  Hira7?ya-garbha 
was  Brahma,  the  first  male,  formed  by  the  undiscernible  eternal 
First  Cause  in  a  golden  ^^g  resplendent  as  the  sun.  "  Having 
continued  a  year  in  the  egg,  Brahma  divided  it  into  two  parts 
by  his  mere  thought,  and  with  these  two  shells  he  formed  the 
heavens  and  the  earth ;  and  in  the  middle  he  placed  the  sky, 
the  eight  regions,  and  the  eternal  abode  of  the  waters."  8ee 
Brahma. 

HIRAiVYAKSHA.  'Golden  eye.'  A  Daitya  who  dragged  the 
earth  to  the  depths  of  the  ocean.  He  was  twin-brother  of  Hira- 
??yaka5ipu,  and  was  killed  by  YisliTiu  in  the  Boar  incarnation. 


1 23  HIRANYA-KASIPU—IDA. 

HIEA7\^YA-KA6'IPU.  '  Golden  dress.'  A  Daitva  who,  ao 
cording  to  the  jNIaha-bharata  and  the  Pura??.as,  obtained  from  ^Siva 
the  sovereignty  of  the  three  worlds  for  a  million  of  j^ears,  and 
persecuted  his  son  Prahlada  for  worshipping  Vish?ai.  He  Avas 
slain  by  Yisliwu  in  the  Nara-sinha,  or  man-lion  incarnation.  He 
and  HiraTzyaksha  were  twin-brothers  and  chiefs  of  the  Daityas. 

HIT0PADE6A.  '  Good  adyice.'  The  well-known  collection 
of  ethical  tales  and  fables  compiled  from  the  larger  and  older 
work  called  Pancha-tantra.  It  has  been  often  printed,  and  there 
are  several  translations;  among  them  is  an  edition  by  Johnson 
of  text,  vocabulary,  and  translation. 

HOT/t/.  A  priest  who  recites  the  j^rayers  from  the  J?/g- 
veda. 

HT^/SHIKEaS'A.     a  name  of  K?'/shwa  or  Yislmu. 

HtJiYAS.  According  to  AYilson,  "  the  White  Huns  or  Indo- 
Scythians,  who  were  established  in  the  Panjab  and  along  the 
Indus  at  the  commencement  of  our  era,  as  we  know  from  Arrian, 
Strabo,  and  Ptolemy,  confirmed  by  recent  discoveries  of  their 
coins,"  and  since  still  further  confirmed  by  inscriptions  and 
additional  coins.  Dr.  Pitzedward  Hall  says,  "  I  am  not  pre- 
pared to  deny  that  the  ancient  Hindus,  when  they  spoke  of 
the  HiiTzas,  intended  the  Huns.  In  the  Middle  Ages,  however, 
it  is  certain  that  a  race  called  HiiTia  was  understood  by  the 
learned  of  India  to  form  a  division  of  the  Kshatrivas." — V.  P. 
ii.  134. 

HUX-DEaS'A.     The  country  round  Lake  Manasarovara. 

HUSHKA  HUYISHKA.*^  A  Tushkara  or  Turk i  king,  whose 
name  is  mentioned  in  the  Raja  Tarangiwi  as  Hushka,  which  has 
been  found  in  inscriptions  as  Huvishka,  and  upon  the  corrupt 
Greek  coins  as  Oerki.  He  is  supposed  to  have  reigned  just  at 
the  commencement  of  the  Christian  era.     See  Kanishka. 

Ii)A.  In  the  i?^"g-veda  Ma  is  primarily  food,  refreshment,  or 
a  libation  of  milk ;  thence  a  stream  of  praise,  personified  as  the 
goddess  of  speech.  She  is  called  the  instructress  of  j\lanu,  and 
frequent  passages  ascribe  to  her  the  first  institution  of  the  rules 
of  performing  sacrifices.  According  to  Sriya??a,  she  is  the  goddess 
presiding  over  the  earth.  A  legend  in  the  *S'atapatha  BrfdimaTza 
represents  her  as  springing  from  a  sacrifice  wliich  IManu  per- 
formed for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  offspring.  She  Avas  claimed 
by  Mitra-Yaru?ia,  but  remained  faithful  to  liiin  who  had  pro- 


IDA—INDRA.  123 

duced  lier.  IManu  lived  with  her,  and  praying  and  fasting  to 
obtain  offspring,  he  begat  upon  her  the  race  of  Mann.  In 
the  Pura?2as  she  is  daughter  of  the  Mann  Vaivaswata,  wife  of 
P>udha  (Mercury),  and  mother  of  Pururavas.  The  Manu  Yaivas- 
wata,  before  he  had  sons,  instituted  a  sacrifice  to  Mitra  and 
Varu?ia  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  one ;  but  the  ofhciating 
priest  mismanaged  the  performance,  and  the  result  was  the  birth 
of  a  daughter,  I(ia  or  Ila.  Through  the  favour  of  the  two 
deities  her  sex  was  changed,  and  she  became  a  man,  Su-dyumna. 
Under  the  malediction  of  /S'iva,  Su-dyumna  M^as  again  turned  into 
a  woman,  and,  as  Ila,  married  Budha  or  Mercury.  After  she  had 
given  birth  to  Pururavas,  she,  under  the  favour  of  Yisli^iu,  once 
more  became  Su-dyumna,  and  was  the  father  of  three  sons. 
According  to  another  version  of  the  legend,  the  Manu's  eldest 
son  was  named  Ila.  He  having  trespassed  on  a  grove  sacred 
to  Parvati,  was  changed  into  a  female,  Ila.  Upon  the  supplica- 
tions and  prayers  of  Ila's  friends,  /S'iva  and  his  consort  conceded 
that  the  offender  should  be  a  male  one  month  and  a  female 
another.  There  are  other  variations  in  the  story  which  is  appa- 
rently ancient. 

YBKNYDK.  Daughter  of  Trwabindu  and  the  Apsaras  Alam- 
busha.  There  are  different  statements  in  the  Puranas  as  regards 
her.  She  is  represented  to  be  the  wife  of  Yisravas  and  mother 
of  Kuvera,  or  the  wife  of  Pulastya  and  mother  of  Visravas. 

IKSHWAKU.  Son  of  the  Manu  Yaivaswat,  who  was  son 
of  Yivaswat,  the  sun.  "  He  was  born  from  the  nostril  of  the 
Manu  as  he  happened  to  sneeze."  Ikshwaku  was  founder  of  the 
Solar  race  of  kings,  and  reigned  in  Ayodhya  at  the  beginning  of 
the  second  Yuga  or  age.  He  had  a  hundred  sons,  of  whom  the 
eldest  was  Yikukshi.  Another  son,  named  Nimi,  founded  the 
Mithila  dynasty.  According  to  Max  Miiller  the  name  is  men- 
tioned once,  and  only  once,  in  the  itig-veda.  Respecting  this 
he  adds :  "  I  take  it,  not  as  the  name  of  a  king,  but  as  the  name 
of  a  people,  probably  the  people  who  inhabited  Bhajeratha,  the 
country  washed  by  the  northern  Ganga  or  Bhaglratlii."  Others 
place  the  Ikshwakus  in  the  north-west. 

ILA,  ILA.     See,  I(^a. 

ILAYILA.     See  Irfavi(ia. 

ILYALA.     See  Yatapi. 

INDPA.     The  god  of  the  firmament,  the  personified  atmo- 


124  INDRA. 

sphere.  In  tlie  Vedas  lie  stands  in  the  first  rank  among  the 
gods,  but  he  is  not  uncreate,  and  is  represented  as  having  a 
father  and  mother :  "  a  vigorous  god  begot  him ;  a  heroic  female 
brought  him  fortL"  He  is  described  as  being  of  a  ruddy  or 
golden  colour,  and  as  having  arms  of  enormous  length ;  "  but 
his  forms  are  endless,  and  he  can  assume  any  shape  at  will." 
He  rides  in  a  bright  golden  car,  drawn  by  two  tawny  or  ruddy 
horses  with  flowing  manes  and  tails.  His  weapon  is  the  thun- 
derbolt, which  he  carries  in  his  right  hand ;  he  also  uses  arrows, 
a  great  hook,  and  a  net,  in  which  he  is  said  to  entangle  his  foes. 
The  soma  juice  is  his  especial  delight ;  he  takes  enormous 
draughts  of  it,  and,  stimulated  by  its  exhilarating  qualities,  he 
goes  forth  to  war  against  his  foes,  and  to  perform  his  other 
duties.  As  deity  of  the  atmosphere,  he  governs  the  weather 
and  dispenses  the  rain ;  he  sends  forth  his  lightnings  and 
thunder,  and  he  is  continually  at  war  with  Y?'itra  or  Ahi,  the 
demon  of  drought  and  inclement  weather,  whom  he  overcomes 
with  his  thunderbolts,  and  compels  to  pour  down  the  rain. 
Strabo  describes  the  Indians  as  worshipping  Jupiter  Pluvius,  no 
doubt  meaning  Indra,  and  he  has  also  been  compared  to  Jupiter 
Tonans.  One  myth  is  that  of  his  discovering  and  rescuing  the 
cows  of  the  priests  or  of  the  gods,  which  had  been  stolen  by  an 
Asura  named  Pa?ii  or  Yala,  wdiom  he  killed,  and  he  is  hence 
called  Yala-bhid.  He  is  frequently  represented  as  destroying  the 
"stone-built  cities"  of  the  Asuras  or  atmospheric  demons,  and  of 
the  Dasyus  or  aborigines  of  India.  In  his  warfare  he  is  sometimes 
represented  as  escorted  by  troops  of  Maruts,  and  attended  by  his 
comrade  Vishwu.  More  hymns  are  addressed  to  Indra  than  to  any 
other  deity  in  the  Vedas,  with  the  exception"  of  Agni.  For  he 
was  reverenced  in  his  beneficent  character  as  the  bestower  of  rain 
and  the  cause  of  fertility,  and  he  was  feared  as  the  awful  ruler 
of  the  storm  and  director  of  the  lightning  and  thunder.  In 
many  places  of  the  i?ig-veda  the  highest  divine  functions  and 
attributes  are  ascribed  to  him.  There  was  a  triad  of  gods — 
Agni,  Vayu,  and  Siirya — which  held  a  pre-eminence  above  the 
rest,  and  Indra  frequently  took  the  place  of  Yfiyu.  In  some 
parts  of  the  Veda,  as  Dr.  INIuir  remarks,  the  ideas  expressed  of 
Indra  are  grand  and  lofty;  at  other  times  he  is  treated  with 
familiarity,  and  his  devotion  to  the  soma  juice  is  dilated  upon, 
though  nothing  debasing  is  perceived  in  his  sensuality.     Indra 


INDRA.  125 

is  mentioned  as  having  a  wife,  and  the  name  of  Indnmi  or 
Aindri  is  invoked  among  the  goddesses.  In  the  /S'atapatha 
Brahma^a  she  is  called  India's  beloved  wife. 

In  the  later  mythology  Indra  has  fallen  into  the  second  rank. 
He  is  inferior  to  the  triad,  but  he  is  the  chief  of  all  the  other 
gods.  He  is  the  regent  of  the  atmosphere  and  of  the  east 
quarter  of  the  compass,  and  he  reigns  over  Swarga,  the  heaven 
of  the  gods  and  of  beatified  spirits,  which  is  a  region  of  great 
magnificence  and  splendour.  He  retains  many  of  his  Vedic 
characteristics,  and  some  of  them  are  intensified.  He  sends  the 
lightning  and  hurls  the  thunderbolt,  and  the  rainbow  is  his  bow. 
He  is  frequently  at  war  with  the  Asuras,  of  whom  he  lives  in 
constant  dread,  and  by  whom  he  is  often  worsted.  But  he  slew 
the  demon  Yntra,  who,  being  regarded  as  a  Brahman,  Indra  had 
to  conceal  himself  and  make  sacrifice  until  his  guilt  was  purged 
away.  His  continued  love  for  the  soma  juice  is  shown  by  a 
legend  in  the  Maha-bharata,  which  represents  him  as  being  com- 
pelled by  the  sage  Chyavana  to  allow  the  Aswins  to  partake  of 
the  soma  libations,  and  his  sensuality  has  now  developed  into 
an  extreme  lasciviousness.  Many  instances  are  recorded  of  his 
incontinence  and  adultery,  and  his  example  is  frequently  referred 
to  as  an  excuse  in  cases  of  gallantry,  as  by  King  Nahusha  when 
he  tried  to  obtain  Indra's  wife  while  the  latter  was  hiding  in 
fear  for  having  killed  the  Brahman  in  the  person  of  the  demon 
V/itra.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata  he  seduced,  or  endea- 
voured to  seduce,  Ahalya,  the  wife  of  the  sage  Gautama,  and 
that  sage's  curse  impressed  upon  him  a  thousand  marks  resem- 
bling the  female  organ,  so  he  was  caUed  Sa-yoni ;  but  these 
marks  were  afterwards  changed  to  eyes,  and  he  is  hence  called 
JSTetra-yoni,  and  Sahasraksha  'the  thousand-eyed.'  In  the 
Eamaya/za  it  is  related  that  RavaTia,  the  Rakshasa  king  of  Lanka 
or  Ceylon,  warred  against  Indra  in  his  own  heaven,  and  that 
Indra  was  defeated  and  carried  off  to  Lanka  by  Eava??a's  son 
Megha-nada,  who  for  this  exploit  received  the  title  of  Indra-jit 
(q.v.),  '  conqueror  of  Indra.'  Brahma  and  the  gods  had  to  sue 
for  the  release  of  Indira,  and  to  purchase  it  with  the  boon  of 
immortality  to  the  victor.  Brahma  then  told  the  humihated 
god  that  his  defeat  was  a  punishment  for  the  seduction  of 
Ahalya.  The  Taittiriya  Brahma?ia  states  that  he  chose  Indram 
to  be  his  wife  in  preference  to  other  goddesses  because  of  her 


126  INDRA. 

voluptuous  attractions,  and  later  authorities  say  tliat  he  ravished 
her,  and  slew  her  father,  the  Daitja  Puloman,  to  escape  his 
curse.  Mythologically  he  was  father  of  Arjuna  (q.v.),  and  for 
him  he  cheated  Kar?ia  of  his  divine  coat  of  mail,  but  gave 
Kama  in  recompense  a  javelin  of  deadly  effect.  His  libertine 
character  is  also  shown  by  his  frequently  sending  celestial 
nymphs  to  excite  the  passions  of  holy  men,  and  to  beguile  them 
from  the  potent  penances  which  he  dreaded. 

In  the  Pura/zas  many  stories  are  told  of  him,  and  he  appears 
especially  in  rivalry  with  K?*ish72a.  He  incurred  the  wrath  of 
the  choleric  sage  Dur-vasas  by  slighting  a  garland  of  flowers 
which  that  sage  presented  to  him,  and  so  brought  upon  himself 
the  curse  that  his  whole  dominion  should  be  whelmed  in  ruin. 
He  was  utterly  defeated  by  the  Daityas,  or  rather  by  their  ally, 
Eaja,  son  of  Ayus,  and  grandson  of  Pururavas,  and  he  was 
reduced  to  such  a  forlorn  condition  that  he,  "  the  god  of  a  hun- 
dred sacrifices,"  was  compelled  to  beg  for  a  little  sacrificial 
butter.  Puffed  up  by  their  victory,  his  conquerors  neglected 
their  duties,  and  so  they  became  the  easy  prey  of  Indra,  who 
recovered  his  dominion.  The  Bhagavata  Pura/ia  represents  him 
as  having  killed  a  Brahman,  and  of  being  haunted  by  that  crime, 
personified  as  a  Chawc?ali. 

Indra  had  been  an  object  of  worship  among  the  pastoral 
people  of  Yraja,  but  Krislma  persuaded  them  to  cease  this 
worship.  Indra  was  greatly  enraged  at  this,  and  sent  a  deluge 
of  rain  to  overwhelm  them;  but  K?'ish?2a  lifted  up  the  mountain 
Govardhana  on  his  finger  to  shelter  them,  and  so  held  it  for 
seven  days,  till  Indra  was  baffled  and  rendered  homage  to 
K?'ishwa.  Again,  when  Kr/shwa  went  to  visit  Swarga,  and  was 
about  to  carry  off  the  Parijata  tree,  Indra  resented  its  removal, 
and  a  fierce  fight  ensued,  in  which  Indra  was  worsted,  and  the 
tree  was  carried  off.  Among  the  deeds  of  Indra  recorded  in 
the  Purawas  is  that  of  the  destruction  of  the  offspring  of  Diti 
in  her  womb,  and  the  production  therefrom  of  the  Maruts  (see 
Diti) ;  and  there  is  a  story  of  his  cutting  off  the  wings  of  the 
mountains  with  his  thunderl^olts,  because  they  were  refractory 
and  troublesome.  Indra  is  represented  as  a  fair  man  riding  on 
a  white  horse  or  an  elephant,  and  bearing  the  vajra  or  thunder- 
bolt in  his  hand.  His  son  is  named  Jayanta.  Indra  is  not  the 
object  of  direct  worship,  but  he  receives  incidental  adoration, 


INDRA-D  YUMNA  —INDRANL  127 

and  there  is  a  festival  kej)t  in  liis  honour  called  iS'akra-dhwajot- 
thana,  '  the  raising  of  the  standard  of  Indra.' 

Indra's  names  are  many,  as  Mahendra,  ^akra,  Maghavan, 
i^ibhuksha,  Yasava,  Arha,  Datteya.  His  epithets  or  titles  also 
are  numerous.  He  is  V?"itra-han,  '  the  destroyer  of  Yritra  ; ' 
Vajra-pawi,  '  of  the  thunderbolt  hand ; '  Megha-vahana,  '  borne 
upon  the  clouds ; '  Paka-sasana,  *  the  subduer  of  Paka ; ' 
*Sata-kratu,  '  of  a  hundred  sacrifices ; '  Deva-pati  and  Sura- 
dhipa,  '  chief  of  the  gods ; '  Divas-pati,  '  ruler  of  the 
atmosphere  ; '  Marutwan,  '  lord  of  the  winds ; '  Swarga-pati, 
'  lord  of  paradise  ; '  Jishmi,  '  leader  of  the  celestial  host ; ' 
Puran-dara,  '  destroyer  of  cities ; '  Uluka,  '  the  owl ; '  IJgra- 
dhauAvan,  '  of  the  terrible  bow,'  and  many  others.  The  heaven 
of  Indra  is  Swarga;  its  capital  is  Amaravati;  his  palace,  Yaija- 
yanta  ;  his  garden,  ISTandana,  Kandasara,  or  Parushya ;  his 
elephant  is  Airiivata ;  his  horse,  Uchchai/t-sravas ;  his  chariot, 
Yimana ;  his  charioteer,  Matali ;  his  bow,  the  rainbow,  ^Sakra- 
dlianus  ;  and  his  sword,  Paran-ja. 

INDEA-D YUMNA.  Son  of  Su-mati  and  grandson  of 
Bharata.  There  were  several  of  the  name,  among  them  a  king 
of  Avanti,  by  whom  the  temple  of  Yishym  was  built,  and  the 
image  of  Jagan-natha  was  set  up  in  Orissa. 

INDEA-JIT.  Megha-nada,  son  of  Ravawa.  When  Rava?za 
went  against  Indra's  forces  in  Swarga,  his  son  Megha-nada 
accompanied  him,  and  fought  most  A^aliantly.  Indra  himself 
was  obliged  to  interfere,  when  Megha-nada,  availing  himself  of 
the  magical  power  of  becoming  invisible,  which  he  had  obtained 
from  ^Siva,  bound  Indra  and  carried  him  off  to  Lanka.  The 
gods,  headed  by  Brahma,  went  thither  to  obtain  the  release  of 
Indra,  and  Brahma  gave  to  Megha-nada  the  name  Indra-jit, 
'conqueror  of  Indra.'  Still  the  victor  refused  to  release  his  pri- 
soner for  anything  less  than  the  boon  of  immortality.  Brahma 
refused,  but  Indra-jit  persisted  in  his  demand  and  achieved  his 
object.  One  version  of  the  Ramaya?ia  states  that  Indra-jit  was 
killed  and  had  his  head  cut  off  by  Lakshma?ia,  who  surprised 
him  while  he  was  engaged  in  a  sacrifice. 

INDRA-KlLA.     The  mountain  Mandara. 

INDRA-LOKA.     Indra's  heaven,  Swarga.     See,  Loka. 

INDRAiVI.  Wife  of  Indra,  and  mother  of  Javanta  and 
Jayanti.     She  is  also  called  ^achl  and  Aindrl.      She  is  men- 


128  IXDRA-PRAMATI—yABALL 

tioned  a  few  times  in  the  it/g-veda,  and  is  said  to  be  the  most 
fortunate  of  females,  "  for  her  husband  shall  never  die  of  old 
age."  The  Taittiriya  Brahma?ia  states  that  Indra  chose  her  for 
his  wife  from  a  number  of  competing  goddesses,  because  she 
surpassed  them  all  in  voluptuous  attractions.  In  the  Ramayawa 
and  Purawas  she  appears  as  the  daughter  of  the  Daitya  Puloman, 
from  whom  she  has  the  patronymic  Paulomi.  She  was  ravished 
by  Indra,  who  killed  her  father  to  escape  his  curse.  According 
to  the  Maha-bharata,  King  Xahusha  became  enamoured  of  her, 
and  she  escaped  from  him  with  difficulty.  Indra/zi  has  never 
been  held  in  very  high  esteem  as  a  goddess. 

INDRA-PRAMATI.  An  early  teacher  of  the  i?/g-veda,  who 
received  one  Sanhita  direct  from  Paila. 

INDRA-PRASTHA.  The  capital  city  of  the  Pa7ic?u  princes. 
The  name  is  still  known,  and  is  used  for  a  part  of  the  city  of 
DeDii. 

IXDRA-SENA  (mas.),  INDRA-SENA  (fem.).  K'ames  of  the 
son  and  daughter  of  Xala  and  Damayanti. 

INDU.     The  moon.     See  Soma. 

INDU-MATl  Sister  of  Bhoja,  king  of  Yidarbha,  who  chose 
Prince  Aja  for  her  husband  at  her  sway  am- vara.  She  was 
killed  by  Narada's  garland  falling  upon  her  while  asleep  in  an 
arbour. 

IISrDU-MAiVI.     The  moon  gem.     See  Chandra-kanta, 

IRAYAT.     A  son  of  Arjuna  by  his  ISTaga  wife  Ulupi. 

IRA V ATI.     The  river  Ra-vl  or  Hydraotes. 

ISA.  'Lord.'  A  title  of  /S'iva.  jSTame  of  a  Upanishad 
(q.v.)  which  has  been  translated  by  Dr.  Roer  in  the  Bihliotlieca 
Indica. 

ISA^A.  A  name  of  Siysl  or  Rudra,  or  of  one  of  his  manifes- 
tations.    (See  Rudra.)    He  is  guardian  of  the  north-east  quarter. 

ISHTI-PAaSAS.  'Stealers  of  offerings.'  Rakshasas  and 
other  enemies  of  the  gods,  who  steal  the  oblations. 

LSWARA.     '  Lord.'     A  title  given  to  Siva. 

LS'WARA  Kit/SIIiVA.  Author  of  the  philosophical  treatise 
called  Sankhya  Karika. 

ITIIIASAS.  Legendary  poems.  Heroic  history.  "  Stories 
like  those  of  Urvasi  and  Puriiravas."  The  term  is  especially 
applied  to  the  Maha-bharata. 

JABALI,  JAYALI.     A  Brahman  who  was  priest  of  King 


JA  GA  D-D  HA  TRI—JA  HNU.  1 29 

Dasa-ratlia,  and  held  sceptical  pliilosopliical  opinions.  He  is 
represented  in  the  Eaniaya?ia  as  enforcing  his  views  upon  Rama, 
•vvho  decidedly  repudiated  them.  Thereupon  he  asserted  that 
his  atheistical  arguments  had  been  used  only  for  a  purpose, 
and  that  he  was  really  imbued  with  sentiments  of  piety  and 
religion.  He  is  said  to  have  been  a  logician,  so  probably  lie 
belonged  to  the  Nyaya  school 

JAGAD-DHATi^/  (DHATA).  '  Sustainer  of  the  world.' 
An  epithet  given  to  both  Saraswati  and  Durga. 

JAGAN-MATi^J  (MATA).  '  Mother  of  the  world.'  One  of 
the  names  of  /S'iva's  wife.     Bee  Devi. 

JAGAN-NATHA  'Lord  of  the  world.'  A  particular  form 
of  yish?iu,  or  rather  of  Knshwa.  He  is  w^orshipped  in  Bengal 
and  other  parts  of  India,  but  Puri,  near  the  town  of  Cuttack,  in 
Orissa,  is  the  great  seat  of  his  worship,  and  multitudes  of  pil- 
grims resort  thither  from  all  parts,  especially  to  the  two  great 
festivals  of  the  Snana-yatra  and  Katha-yatra,  in  the  months  of 
Jyaish/ha  and  Ashaiiha.  The  first  of  these  is  when  the  image  is 
bathed,  and  in  the  second,  or  car  festival,  the  image  is  brought 
out  upon  a  car  with  the  images  of  his  brother  Bala-rama  and 
sister  Su-bhadra,  and  is  drawn  by  the  devotees.  The  legend  of 
the  origin  of  Jagan-natha  is  peculiar.  K?'ishwa  was  killed  by 
a  hunter,  and  his  body  was  left  to  rot  under  a  tree,  but  some 
pious  persons  found  the  bones  and  placed  them  in  a  box.  A 
devout  king  named  Indra-dyumna  was  directed  by  VisliTZ-u  to 
form  an  image  of  Jagan-natha  and  to  place  the  bones  of  Kmh?za 
inside  it.  Yisvv^a-karma,  the  architect  of  the  gods,  undertook  to 
make  the  image,  on  condition  of  being  left  quite  undisturbed 
till  the  work  was  complete.  After  fifteen  days  the  king  was 
impatient  and  went  to  Viswa-karma,  who  was  angry,  and  left  off 
w^ork  before  he  had  made  either  hands  or  feet,  so  that  the  image 
has  only  stumps.  Indra-dyumna  prayed  to  Brahma,  who  pro- 
mised to  make  the  image  famous,  and  he  did  so  by  giving  to  it 
eyes  and  a  soul,  and  by  acting  as  high  priest  at  its  consecration. 

JAHNAVI.     The  Ganges.     Bee  Jahnu. 

JAHNU.  A  sage  descended  from  Pururavas.  He  was  dis- 
turbed in  his  devotions  by  the  passage  of  the  river  Ganga,  and 
consequently  drank  up  its  waters.  He  afterwards  relented,  and 
allowed  the  stream  to  issue  from  his  ear,  hence  Ganga  is  called 
Jahnavi,  daughter  of  Jahnu.     See  Ganga. 

I 


130  J  AIMINI—JAMAD-A  GNL 

m 

JAIMINI.  A  celebrated  sage,  a  disciple  of  Vyasa.  He  is 
said  to  have  received  the  Sama-veda  from  his  master,  and  to 
have  been  its  publisher  or  teacher.  He  was  also  the  founder 
of  the  Piirva-mimansa  philosophy.  Tlie  text  of  Jaimini  is 
printed  in  the  Bihliotheca  Ind'ica. 

JAIMINIYA-NYAYA-MALA-VISTARA.  A  work  on 
philosophy  by  Madliava.  It  has  been  edited  by  Goldstiicker 
and  Cowell. 

JAJALL  A  Brahman  mentioned  in  the  Maha-bharata  as 
having  by  ascetism  acquired  a  supernatural  power  of  locomotion, 
of  which  he  was  so  proud  that  he  deemed  himself  perfect  in 
virtue  and  superior  to  all  men.  A  voice  from  the  sky  told  him 
that  he  was  inferior  to  Tuladhara,  a  Yaisya  and  a  trader.  He 
went  to  this  Tuladhara  and  learnt  wisdom  from  him. 

JALA-EtJPA.  The  fish  or  the  Makara  on  the  banner  of 
Kama. 

JALA-zSAYIIsr.  '  Sleeping  on  the  waters. '  An  appellation 
of  YisliTiu,  as  he  is  supposed  to  sleep  upon  his  serpent  couch  on 
the  waters  during  the  rainy  season,  or  during  the  submersion  of 
the  world. 

JAMAD-AGXI.  A  Brahman  and  a  descendant  of  Bhngu. 
He  was  the  son  of  itichika  and  Satya-vati,  and  was  the  father 
of  five  sons,  the  youngest  and  most  renowned  of  whom  was 
Parasu-rama.  Jamad-agni's  mother,  Satya-vati,  was  daughter  of 
King  Gadlii,  a  Kshatriya.  The  Yish?iu  Purawa  relates  that 
when  Satya-vati  was  pregnant,  her  {Brahman  husband,  i^ichika, 
prepared  a  mess  for  her  to  eat  for  the  purpose  of  securing  that 
her  son  should  be  born  with  the  qualities  of  a  Brahman.  He 
also  gave  another  mess  to  her  mother  that  she  might  bear  a 
son  with  the  character  of  a  warrior.  The  women  changed  the 
messes,  and  so  Jamad-agni,  the  son  of  /tichlka,  was  born  as  a 
warrior-Brahman,  and  Yiswamitra,  son  of  the  Kshatriya  Gadhi, 
was  born  as  a  priest.  The  Maha-bharata  relates  that  Jamad- 
agni  engaged  dee])ly  in  study  and  "  obtained  entire  possession 
of  the  Vedas."  He  went  to  King  Eewu  or  Prasena-jit  of  the 
Solar  race  and  demanded  of  him  his  daughter  Rezmkru  The 
king  gave  her  to  him,  and  he  retired  with  her  to  his  hermitage, 
where  the  princess  shared  in  his  ascetic  life.  She  bore  him  five 
sons,  Rumawwat,  Sushena,  Vasu,  Vi.swavasu,  and  Para^'u-rama, 
and  she  was  exact  in  the  performance  of  all  her  duties.     One 


J  AM  AD- A  GNI— JAMBA  VAT.  131 

day  she  went  out  to  bathe  and  beheld  a  loving  pair  sporting  and 
dallying  in  the  water.  Their  pleasure  made  her  feel  envious, 
so  she  was  "  defiled  by  unworthy  thoughts,  and  returned  wetted 
but  not  purified  by  the  stream."  Her  husband  beheld  her  "  fallen 
from  perfection  and  shorn  of  the  lustre  of  her  sanctity."  So  he 
reproved  her  and  was  exceeding  wroth.  His  sons  came  into  the 
hermitage  in  the  order  of  their  birth,  and  he  commanded  each 
of  them  in  succession  to  kill  his  mother.  Influenced  by  natural 
affection,  four  of  them  held  their  peace  and  did  nothing.  Their 
father  cursed  them  and  they  became  idiots  bereft  of  all  under- 
standing. Wlien  Parasu-rama  entered,  he  obeyed  his  father's 
order  and  struck  off  his  mother's  head  with  his  axe.  The 
deed  assuaged  the  father's  anger,  and  he  desired  his  son  to  make 
a  request.  Parasu-rama  begged  that  his  mother  might  be 
restored  to  life  in  purity,  and  that  his  brothers  might  regain 
their  natural  condition.     All  this  the  father  granted. 

The  mighty  Karta-virya,  king  of  the  Haihayas,  who  had 
a  thousand  arms,  paid  a  visit  to  the  hermitage  of  Jamad-agni. 
The  sage  and  his  sons  were  out,  but  his  wife  treated  her  guest 
with  all  proper  respect.  Unmindful  of  the  hospitality  he  had 
received,  Karta-virya  threw  down  the  trees  round  the  hermi- 
tage, and  carried  of  the  calf  of  the  sacred  cow,  Surabhi,  which 
Jamad-agni  had  acquired  by  penance.  Parasu-rama  returned 
and  discovered  what  had  happened,  he  then  pursued  Karta- 
virya,  cut  off  his  thousand  arms  with  arrows,  and  killed  him. 
The  sons  of  Karta-virya  w^nt  in  revenge  to  the  hermitage  of 
Jamad-agni,  and  in  the  absence  of  Parasu-rama  slew  the  pious 
sage  without  pity.  When  Parasu-rama  found  the  lifeless  body 
of  his  father,  he  laid  it  on  a  funeral  pile,  and  vowed  that  he 
would  extirpate  the  whole  Kshatriya  race.  He  slew  all  the  sons 
of  Karta-virya,  and  "  thrice  seven  times  "  he  cleared  the  earth  of 
the  Kshatriya  caste. 

JAMADAGXYA.     The  patronymic  of  Parasu-rama. 

JAMBAVAT.  King  of  the  bears.  A  celebrated  gem  called 
Syamantaka  had  been  given  by  the  Sun  to  Satra-jit.  He,  fear- 
ing that  Krfsh?ia  would  take  it  from  him,  gave  it  to  his  brother, 
Prasena.  One  property  of  this  jewel  was  to  f)rotect  its  wearer 
when  good,  to  ruin  him  when  bad.  Prasena  was  wicked  and 
was  killed  by  a  lion,  which  was  carrying  off  the  gem  in  its  mouth, 
when  he  was  encountered  and  slain  by  Jambavat.     After  Pra- 


132  JAMBA  VA  tI—JANAKA, 

Sena's  disappearance,  Kr/sli;ia  was  suspected  of  having  killed 
him  for  the  sake  of  the  jewel.  K77sh?ia  with  a  large  party- 
tracked  the  steps  of  Prasena,  till  it  was  ascertained  that  he  had 
been  killed  by  a  lion,  and  that  the  lion  had  been  killed  by 
a  bear.  K?'ish7za  then  tracked  the  bear,  Jambavat,  into  his 
cavern,  and  a  great  fight  ensued  between  them.  After  waiting 
outside  seven  or  eight  days,  Krishna's  followers  went  home  and 
performed  his  funeral  ceremonies.  On  the  twenty-first  day  of 
the  fight,  Jambavat  submitted  to  his  adversary,  gave  up  the 
gem,  and  presented  to  him  his  daughter,  Jambavati,  as  an 
offering  suitable  to  a  guest.  Jambavat  with  his  army  of  bears 
aided  Rama  in  his  invasion  of  Lanka,  and  always  acted  the  part 
of  a  sasje  counsellor. 

JAMBAYATL  Daughter  of  Jambavat,  king  of  the  bears, 
wife  of  K?'ish7ia,  and  mother  of  A^amba. 

JAMBHA.  Xame  of  several  demons.  Of  one  who  fouglit 
against  the  gods  and  was  slain  by  Indra,  who  for  this  deed  was 
called  Jambha-bhedin.  Also  of  one  Avho  fought  against  Arjuna 
and  was  killed  by  K?*ish?2a. 

JAMBU-DWlPA  One  of  the  seven  islands  or  continents 
of  which  the  world  is  made  up.  The  great  mountain,  IMeru, 
stands  in  its  centre,  and  Bharata-varsha  or  India  is  its  best  part. 
Its  varshas  or  divisions  are  nine  in  number  : — (r.)  Bharata,  south 
of  the  Himalayas  and  southernmost  of  all.  (2.)  Kim-purusha. 
(3.)  Hari-varsha.  (4.)  Ila-V7'ita,  containing  Meru.  (5.)  Ramyaka. 
(6.)  Hiraw-maya.  (7.)  Uttara-Kuru,  each  to  the  north  of  the  pro- 
ceding  one.  (8.)  Bhadra-swa  and  (9.)  Ketu-mala  lie  respectively 
to  the  east  and  west  of  Ila-vrita,  the  central  region. 

JAMBU-MALI.  A  Rakshasa  general  of  Rava?2a.  He  was 
killed  by  Hanumrm. 

JANAKA.  I.  King  of  Mithila,  of  the  Solar  race.  A\nien 
Nimi,  his  predecessor,  died  without  leaving  a  successor,  the 
sages  subjected  the  body  of  Nimi  to  attrition,  and  produced 
from  it  a  prince  "  who  was  called  Janaka,  from  being  born 
without  a  progenitor."  He  was  the  first  Janaka,  and  twenty- 
generations  earlier  than  Janaka  the  father  of  Slta. 

2.  King  of  Videha  and  father  of  Sitil,  remarkable  for  his 
great  knowledge  and  good  works  and  sanctity.  He  is  called 
/S'ira-dhwaja,  'he  of  the  plough  banner,'  because  his  daughter 
Sitil  sprang  up  ready  formed  from  the  furrow   when  he  was 


JANAKI—JARA-SANDHA.  133 

ploughing  the  ground  and  preparing  for  a  sacrifice  to  obtain 
offspring.  The  sage  Yajnawalkya  was  his  priest  and  adviser. 
The  Brahnia72as  relate  that  he  "refused  to  submit  to  the  hier- 
archical pretensions  of  the  Brahmans,  and  asserted  his  right 
of  performing  sacrifices  without  the  intervention  of  priests." 
He  succeeded  in  his  contention,  for  it  is  said  that  through 
his  pure  and  righteous  life  he  became  a  Brahman  and  one  of 
the  Rajarshis.  He  and  his  priest  Yajnawalkya  are  thought  to 
have  prepared  the  way  for  Buddha. 

JAIN'AKI.     A  patronymic  of  Sita  (q.v.). 

JANA-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

JANAMEJAYA.  A  great  king,  w^ho  was  son  of  Parikshit, 
and  great-grandson  of  Arjuna.  It  was  to  this  king  that  the 
Maha-bharata  was  recited  by  Yaisampayana,  and  the  king  lis- 
tened to  it  in  expiation  of  the  sin  of  killing  a  Brahman.  His 
father,  Parikshit,  died  from  the  bite  of  a  serpent,  and  Janema- 
jaya  is  said  to  have  performed  a  great  sacrifice  of  serpents 
(Nagas)  and  to  have  conquered  the  Naga  people  of  Taksha-sila. 
Hence  he  is  called  Sarpa-sattrin,  'serpent-sacrificer.'  There 
were  several  others  of  the  same  name. 

JANARDDANA.  'The  adored  of  mankind.'  A  name  of 
K?*ish?ia,  but  other  derivations  are  offered,  as  '  extirpator  of  the 
wicked,'  by  Sankaracharya. 

JAXA-STHANA.  A  place  in  the  Da?2(7aka  forest  where 
Rama  sojourned  for  a  while  in  his  exile. 

JAR  AS.  'Old  age.'  The  hunter  who  unwittingly  killed 
K?'ish7za. 

JARA-SA:N'DHA.  Son  of  Br^had-ratha,  and  king  of  Ma- 
gadlia.  B?-ihad-ratha  had  two  wives,  who  after  being  long  barren 
brought  forth  two  halves  of  a  boy.  These  abortions  were  re- 
garded with  horror  and  thrown  away.  A  female  man-eating 
demon  named  Jara  j^icked  them  up  and  put  them  together  to 
carry  them  off  On  their  coming  in  contact  a  boy  was  formed, 
who  cried  out  so  lustily  that  he  brought  out  the  king  and  his 
two  queens.  The  RakshasI  explained  what  had  happened,  re- 
signed the  child,  and  retired.  The  father  gave  the  boy  the 
name  of  Jara-sandha,  because  he  had  been  put  together  by  Jara. 
Future  greatness  was  prophesied  for  the  boy,  and  he  became  an 
ardent  worshipper  of  ^Siva.  Through  the  favour  of  this  god  he 
prevailed  over  many  kings,  and  he  especially  fought   against 


134  7'-^^^  T-KARU—JA  TAYU. 

Kf ishwa,  who  had  killed  Kansa,  the  husband  of  two  of  Jara- 
sandha's  daughters.  He  besieged  ]\Xatliura,  and  attacked  K?-ish?«a 
eighteen  times,  and  was  as  often  defeated ;  but  K?7'sh?za  was  so 
weakened  that  he  retired  to  Dwaraka.  ■  Jara-sandha  had  many 
kings  in  captivity,  and  when  Kr/sh?2a  returned  from  Dwaraka, 
he,  with  Bhima  and  Arjuna,  went  to  Jara-sandlia's  capital  for 
the  purpose  of  slaying  their  enemy  and  liberating  the  kings. 
Jara-sandha  refused  to  release  the  kings,  and  accepted  the  alter- 
native of  a  combat,  in  which  he  was  killed  by  Bhima. 

JARAT-KARU.  An  ancient  sage  who  married  a  sister  of  the 
great  serpent  Yasuki,  and  was  father  of  the  sage  Astlka. 

JARITA.  A  certain  female  bird  of  the  species  called  *Sarn- 
gika,  whose  story  is  told  in  the  Maha-bharata.  The  saint 
Manda-pala,  who  returned  from  the  shades  because  he  had  no 
son,  assumed  the  form  of  a  male  bird,  and  by  her  had  four  sons. 
He  then  abandoned  her.  In  the  conflagration  of  the  Kha??c?ava 
forest  she  showed  great  devotion  in  the  protection  of  her  chil- 
dren, and  they  w^ere  eventually  saved  through  the  influence  of 
Manda-pala  over  the  god  of  fire.  Their  names  were  Jaritari, 
Saris?'ikta,  Stamba-mitra,  and  Drowa.  They  were ."  interpreters 
of  the  A^edas ; "  and  there  are  hymns  of  the  i?/g-veda  bearing 
the  names  of  the  second  and  third. 

JATASURA,  A  Rakshasa  who  disguised  himself  as  a  Brah- 
man and  carried  off  Yudhi-sh/hira,  Saha-deva,  Nakula,  and 
Draupadi.     He  was  overtaken  and  killed  by  Bhima. 

JATA-YEDAS.  A  Yedic  epithet  for  fire.  "  The  meaning  is 
explained  in  five  w^ays  : — (i.)  Knowing  all  created  beings  ;  (2.) 
Possessing  all  creatures  or  everything  existent ;  (3.)  Known  by 
created  beings;  (4.)  Possessing  vedas,  riches;  (5.)  Possessing 
vedas,  wisdom.  Other  derivations  and  explanations  are  found  in 
the  Brahma??as,  but  the  exact  sense  of  the  word  seems  to  have  been 
very  early  lost,  and  of  the  five  ex2)lanations  given,  only  the  first 
two  would  seem  to  be  admissible  for  the  Yedic  texts.  In  one 
passage  a  form,  Jiita-veda,  seems  to  occur." — Williams.  This 
form  of  the  term,  and  the  statement  of  INIanu  tliat  the  Yedas 
were  milked  out  from  fire,  air,  and  the  sun,  may  perhaps  justify 
the  explanation,  '  producer  of  the  Yedas.' 

JAjf'AYU,  JAjfAYUS.  According  to  the  Ramriya?ia,  a  bird 
who  was  son  of  Yish?iu's  bird  Garuf?a,  and  king  of  the  vultures. 
Others   say   he  was  a   son  of  Aru?ia.     He  became  an  ally  of 


JA  TILA—JA  YAD-RA  7 ha.  135 

Rama's,  and  he  fouglit  furiously  against  Rava7ia  to  prevent  the 
carrying  away  of  Sita.  Rava?^a  overpowered  him  and  left  him 
mortally  wounded.  Rama  found  him  in  time  to  hear  his  dying 
words,  and  to  learn  what  had  become  of  Sita.  Rama  and 
Lakshmawa  performed  his  funeral  rites  to  "secure  his  soul 
in  the  enjoyments  of  heaven,"  whitlier  he  ascended  in  a 
chariot  of  fire.  In  the  Pura/^as  he  is  the  friend  of  Da^a-ratha. 
AVlien  that  king  went  to  the  ecliptic  to  recover  Sita  from  ^S'ani 
(Saturn),  his  carriage  was  consumed  by  a  glance  from  the  eye  of 
the  latter,  but  Ja/ayu  caught  the  falling  king  and  saved  him. 
The  Padma  Pura?i-a  says  Da^a-ratha  assailed  Saturn  because  of  a 
dearth,  and  wdien  he  and  his  car  were  hurled  from  heaven, 
Ja/a3ru  caught  him. 

JATILA.  A  daughter  of  Gotama,  who  is  mentioned  in  the 
Maha-bharata  as  a  virtuous  Avoman  and  the  wife  of  seven  hus- 
bands. 

JAYA-DEVA.     A  poet,  author  of  the  Gita-govinda  (q.v.). 

JAYAD-RATHA.     A  prince  of  the  Lunar  race,  son  of  Brdian- 
manas.     He  was  king  of  Sindhu,  and  was  "indifferently  termed 
Raja  of  the  Sindhus  or  Saindhavas,  and  Raja  of  the  Sauviras, 
or  sometimes  in  concert  Sindhu-sauviras,"  the  Saindhavas  and 
Sauviras  both  being  tril^es  living  along  the  Indus.     Jayad-ratha 
married  Du/i-sala,  daughter  of  Dhr^ta-rash^ra,  and  was  an  ally  of 
the  Kauravas.     AVhen  the  Pa?2C?avas  were  in  exile  he  called  at 
their  forest  abode  while  they  were  out  hunting  and  Draupadi 
was  at  home  alone.     He  had  with  him  six  brothers  and  a  large 
retinue,  but  the  resources  of  the  Pa?Z6?avas  were  equal  to  the 
occasion,  and  Draupadi  was  able  to  supply  five  hundred  deer 
with  accompaniments  for  breakfast.     This  is  explained  by  the 
statement  that  Yudhi-sh/hira,  having  w^orshipped  the  sun,  ob- 
tained from  that  luminary  an  inexhaustible  cauldron  which  was 
to  supply  all  and  every  viand  that  might  be  required  by  the 
Pa??£i?avas  in  their  exile.  Jayad-ratha  was  captivated  by  the  charms 
of  Draupadi,  and  tried  to  induce  her  to  elope  with  him.     "WTien 
he  was  indignantly  repulsed  he  carried  her  off  by  force.     On 
the  return  of  the  PaTK^avas  they  pursued  the  ravisher,  defeated 
his  forces,  and  made  him  prisoner.     His  life  was  spared  by 
command  of  Yudlii-sh/'hira,  but  Bhima  kicked  and  beat  him 
terribly,  cut  off  his  hair,  and  made  him  go  before  the  assembled 
Paw<iavas  and  acknowledge  himseK  to  be  their  slave.     At  the 


136  JAYANTA—KA. 

intercession  of  Draupadi  he  was  allowed  to  depart.  He  was 
killed,  after  a  desperate  conflict,  by  Arjuna  on  the  fourteenth 
day  of  the  great  battle. 

JAYA^TA.     Son  of  Indra,  also  called  Jaya. 

JAYANTi  Daughter  of  Indra.  She  is  called  also  JayanI, 
Deva-sena,  and  TavishL 

JllMtJTA.  A  great  wrestler,  who  was  overcome  and  killed 
by  Bliima  at  the  court  of  Yira/a. 

JIMUTA-YAHANA  'Whose  vehicle  is  the  clouds.'  A 
title  of  Indra.  A  name  borne  by  several  persons,  and  among 
them  by  the  author  of  the  Daya-bhaga, 

JISHiV'U.     A  name  of  Arjuna. 

JUSHKA  A  Turushka  or  Turki  king,  who  ruled  in  Kash- 
mir and  in  Northern  India.     See  Kanishka. 

JWALA-MUKHI.  'Mouth  of  fire.'  A  volcano.  A  cele- 
brated place  of  pilgrimage  in  the  Lower  Himalayas,  north  of  the 
Panjab,  where  fire  issues  from  the  ground.  According  to  the 
legend,  it  is  the  fire  which  Sati,  the  wife  of  /S'iva,  created,  and  in 
which  she  burnt  herself. 

JYAMAGHA  A  king  of  the  Lunar  race,  proverbial  as 
"  most  eminent  among  husbands  submissive  to  their  wives." 
/S^aibya,  his  wife,  was  barren,  but  he  was  afraid  to  take  another 
wife  till,  having  overcome  an  enemy  and  driven  him  from  his 
country,  the  daughter  of  the  vanquished  king  became  his  cap- 
tive. She  was  beautiful,  and  Jyamagha  desired  to  marry  her. 
He  took  her  in  his  chariot  and  carried  her  to  his  palace  to  ask 
the  assent  of  his  queen.  When  »S'aibya  saw  the  maiden,  she 
was  filled  with  jealousy,  and  angrily  demanded  who  the  "  light- 
hearted  damsel "  was.  The  king  was  disconcerted,  and  humbly 
replied,  "  She  is  the  young  bride  of  the  future  son  whom  thou 
shalt  bring  fortK"  It  had  ceased  to  be  with  jS'aibya  after  the 
manner  of  women,  but  still  she  bore  a  son  who  was  named 
Yidarbha,  and  married  the  captive  j)rincess. 

JYOTISHA.  Astronomy.  One  of  the  Yedangas.  The  object 
of  this  Yedanga  is  to  fix  the  most  auspicious  days  and  seasons 
for  the  performance  of  sacrifices.  There  has  been  little  dis- 
covered that  is  ancient  on  this  subject ;  only  one  "  short  tract, 
consisting  of  thirty-six  verses,  in  a  comparatively  modern  style,  to 
which  scholars  cannot  assign  an  earlier  date  than  300  years  b.c." 

KA.      The  interrogative   pronoun  "  who  ? "     This  word  has 


KA—KABANDHA.  137 

been  raised  to  tlie  position  of  a  deity.  In  the  words  of  Max 
]\Iiiller,  "  The  authors  of  the  Brahma?zas  had  so  completely 
broken  with  the  past,  that,  forgetful  of  the  poetical  character  of 
the  hymns  (of  the  Veda)  and  the  yearning  of  the  poets  after  the 
unknown  god,  they  exalted  the  interrogative  pronoun  itself  into 
a  deity,  and. acknowledged  a  god  Ka  or  Who  %  In  the  Taittiriya 
Brahma7?-a,  in  the  Kaushitaki  Brahma/ia,  in  the  Ta?z6?ya  Brahmawa, 
and  in  the  ^atapatha  Brahmawa,  wherever  interrogative  verses 
occur,  the  author  states  that  Ka  is  Prajapati,  or  the  lord  of 
creatures.  Nor  did  they  stop  here.  Some  of  the  hymns  in 
which  the  interrogative  pronoun  occurred  were  called  Kadvat, 
i.e.,  having  Imd  or  quid.  But  soon  a  new  adjective  was  formed, 
and  not  only  the  hymns  but  the  sacrifice  also  ofi'ered  to  the  god 
were  called  Kaya  or  Who-ish.  ...  At  the  time  of  Pamni,  this 
word  had  acquired  such  legitimacy  as  to  call  for  a  separate  rule 
explaining  its  formation.  The  commentator  here  explains  Ka 
by  Brahman.  After  this  we  can  hardly  wonder  that  in  the  later 
Sansk?-it  literature  of  the  Pura?^as  Ka  appears  as  a  recognised 
god,  as  a  supreme  god,  with  a  genealogy  of  his  own,  perhaps 
even  with  a  wife ;  and  that  in  the  laws  of  ]\Ianu  one  of  the 
recognised  forms  of  marriage,  generally  known  by  the  name  of 
the  Prajapati  marriage,  occurs  under  the  monstrous  title  of 
Kaya."  The  Maha-bharata  identifies  Ka  with  Daksha,  and  the 
Bhagavata  Purawa  applies  the  term  to  Kasyapa,  no  doubt  in 
consequence  of  their  great  generative  powers  and  similarity  to 
Prajaj)ati. 

KABANDHA.  i.  A  disciple  of  Su-mantu,  the  earliest  teacher 
of  the  Atharva-veda.  2.  A  monstrous  Eakshasa  slain  by  Eama. 
He  is  said  to  have  been  a  son  of  the  goddess  5'ri.  He  is  de- 
scribed as  "  covered  with  hair,  vast  as  a  mountain,  without  head 
or  neck,  having  a  mouth  armed  with  immense  teeth  in  the 
middle  of  his  belly,  arms  a  league  long,  and  one  enormous  eye 
in  his  breast."  He  was  originally  a  Gandharva,  and  his  hideous 
deformity  arose,  according  to  one  account,  from  a  quarrel  with 
Indra,  whom  he  challenged,  and  who  struck  him  with  his  thun- 
derbolt, and  drove  his  head  and  thighs  into  his  body.  According 
to  another  statement,  his  deformity  arose  from  the  curse  of  a 
sage.  Wlien  mortally  wounded,  he  requested  Kama  to  burn 
his  body,  and  when  that  was  done  he  came  out  of  the  fire  m 
his  real  shape  as   a  Gandharva,   and  counselled  Kama  as  to 


138  KACHA—KAHODA. 

the  conduct  of  tlie  war  against  RavaTza.  He  was  also  called 
Danu. 

KACIIA.  A  son  of  Bnhaspati.  According  to  the  Maha- 
l)liarata  he  became  a  disciple  of  ^Sukra  or  U^anas,  the  priest  of 
the  Asuras,  with  the  object  of  obtaining  from  him  the  mystic 
power  of  restoring  the  dead  to  life,  a  charm  which  iSukra  alone 
possessed.  To  prevent  this  the  Asuras  killed  Kaclia  again  and 
again,  but  on  both  occasions  he  was  restored  to  life  by  the 
sage  at  the  intercession  of  Devayani,  his  daughter,  who  had 
fallen  in  love  with  Kacha.  They  killed  him  a  third  time,  burnt 
his  bodv,  and  mixed  his  ashes  with  >S'ukra's  w^ine,  but  Devavani 
again  implored  her  father  to  bring  back  the  young  man.  Unable 
to  resist  his  daughter's  importunity,  ^S'ukra  once  more  performed 
the  charm,  and  to  his  surprise  heard  the  voice  of  Kacha  come 
out  from  his  own  belly.  To  save  his  own  life,  ^Sukra  taught  his 
pupil  the  great  charm.  He  then  allowed  himself  to  be  ripped 
open,  and  Kacha,  upon  coming  out,  performed  the  charm,  and 
restored  his  master  to  life.  This  incident  is  said  to  have  caused 
/S'ukra  to  prohibit  the  use  of  wine  to  Brahmans.  Kacha  resisted 
the  proposals  of  Devayani,  and  refused  to  make  her  his  wife. 
She  then  cursed  liim,  that  the  charms  he  had  learnt  from  her 
father  should  be  powerless,  and  he  in  return  condemned  her  to  be 
souf^ht  bv  no  Brahman,  and  to  become  the  wife  of  a  Kshatriva. 

KADA^IBARl.  A  daughter  of  Chitra-ratha  and  JNIadira. 
Her  name  has  been  given  to  a  well-known  prose  work,  a  kind  of 
novel,  written  by  Yawa  or  Bawa-bha//a,  in  the  seventh  century. 
The  work  has  been  printed  at  Bombay. 

KADEtJ.  A  daughter  of  Daksha,  and  one  of  the  thirteen 
that  were  married  to  Kasyapa.  She  was  mother  of  "a  thousand 
powerful  many-headed  serpents,  the  chief  amongst  whom  were 
^'esha,  Vasuki,  .  .  .  and  many  other  fierce  and  venomous  ser- 
pents." The  Vishnu  Purawa,  from  which  this  is  taken,  names 
twelve,  the  Vayu  Pura7?a  forty.  Her  offspring  bear  the  metro- 
nymic Kadraveya, 

KAHOi)A.  A  learned  Brfdiman,  fatlier  of  Ash/Tivakra.  He 
with  many  others  was  overcome  in  argument  at  the  court  of 
Janaka  by  a  Buddhist  sage,  and  as  a  penalty  was  thrown  into 
tlie  river.  Some  years  afterwards  he  was  recovered  by  his  son, 
who  overcame  the  supposed  Buddliist  sage,  and  tlius  brought 
about  a  restoration.     /S'ee  Asli^avakra, 


KAIKASi—KAKSHlVA  T.  139 

KAIKASI.  Daughter  of  the  Eakshasa  Sii-mah  and  his  wife 
Ivetii-mati,  wife  of  Visravas  and  mother  of  Ravawa. — Muir,  iv. 

487,  488. 

KAIKEYA.  Name  of  a  country  and  of  its  king.  He  was 
father-in-law  of  Krishwa,  and  his  five  sons  were  allies  of  the 
Pa?i<^avas.  His  real  name  appears  to  have  been  Dhrish/a- 
ketu. 

KAIKEYAS,  KEKAYAS.  The  people  of  Kaikeya,  one  of 
the  chief  nations  in  the  war  of  the  Maha-bharata.  The  Rama- 
yaTza  places  them  in  the  west,  beyond  the  SaraswatI  and  Byas. 

KAIKEYI.  A  princess  of  Kaikeya,  wife  of  King  Dasa-ratha, 
and  mother  of  Bharata,  his  third  son.  She  carefully  tended 
Dasa-ratha  when  he  was  wounded  in  battle,  and  in  gratitude  he 
promised  to  grant  any  two  requests  she  might  make.  Urged  by 
the  malignant  counsels  of  Manthara,  a  female  attendant,  she 
made  use  of  this  promise  to  procure  the  exile  of  Rama,  and  to 
promote  the  advancement  of  her  own  son,  Bharata,  to  his  place. 
See  Dasa-ratha,  Rama. 

KAILASA.  A  mountain  in  the  Himalayas,  north  of  the 
Manasa  lake.  /S'iva's  paradise  is  said  to  be  on  Mount  Kailasa, 
so  also  is  Kuvera's  abode.  It  is  called  also  Ga?2a-parvata  and 
Rajatadri,  *  silver  mountain.' 

KAI7ABHA.  Kai^abha  and  Madhu  were  two  horrible 
demons,  who,  according  to  the  Maha-bharata  and  the  Pura?ias, 
sprang  from  the  ear  of  Yisliwu  while  he  was  asleep  at  the  end  of 
a  kalpa,  and  were  about  to  kill  Brahma,  who  was  lying  on  the 
lotus  springing  from  Yish?iu's  navel.  Yish/m  killed  them,  and 
hence  he  obtained  the  names  of  Kai/abha-jit  and  Madhu-su.dana. 
The  Markawfeya  Pura?ia  attributes  the  death  of  Kai/fabha  to 
TJma,  and  she  bears  the  title  of  Kai/abha.  The  Hari-vansa 
states  that  the  earth  received  its  name  of  Medini  from  the 
marrow  (medas)  of  these  demons.  In  one  passage  it  sajs  that 
their  bodies,  being  thrown  into  the  sea,  produced  an  immense 
quantity  of  marrow  or  fat,  which  NarayaTza  used  in  forming  the 
earth.  In  another  place  it  says  that  the  medas  quite  covered 
the  earth,  and  so  gave  it  the  name  of  Medini.  This  is  another 
of  the  many  etymological  inventions. 

KAKSHIYAT,  KAKSHlYAK  A  Yedic  sage,  particularly 
connected  with  the  worship  of  the  Aswins.  He  was  the  son  of 
Dirgha-tamas  and  Usij  (q.v.),  and  is  author  of  several  hymns  in 


140  KAKUDMIN—KALAKANJAS. 

the  ifc/g-veda.  He  was  also  called  Pajriya,  because  lie  was  of 
the  race  of  Pajra.  In  one  of  his  hymns  he  lauds  the  liberality 
of  King  SAvanaya.  The  following  legend,  in  explanation,  is 
given  by  the  commentator  Sayawa  and  the  Xitl-manjara : — Kak- 
shlvat,  having  finished  his  course  of  study,  took  leave  of  his 
preceptor  and  departed  homewards.  As  he  journeyed  night 
came  on,  and  he  fell  asleep  by  the  roadside.  In  the  morning 
he  was  aroused  by  Eaja  Swanaya,  who,  being  pleased  with  his 
appearance,  treated  him  cordially  and  took  him  home.  After 
ascertaining  his  worthiness,  he  married  him  to  his  ten  daughters, 
presenting  him  at  the  same  time  with  a  hundred  nislikas  of  gold, 
a  hundred  horses,  a  hundred  bulls,  a  thousand  and  sixty  cows, 
and  eleven  chariots,  one  for  each  of  his  ten  wives,  and  one  for 
himself,  each  dra"svn  by  four  horses.  With  these  he  returned 
home  to  his  father,  and  recited  the  hymn  in  praise  of  the  muni- 
ficence of  Swanaya. 

KAKUDMIK     A  name  of  Eaivata  (q.v.). 

KAKUT-STHA.     See  Puranjaya. 

KALA.  'Time.'  A  name  of  Yama,  the  judge  of  the  dead. 
In  the  Atharva-veda  Time  is  addressed  as  the  source  and  ruler 
of  aU  things.  "  It  is  he  who  drew  forth  the  worlds  and  encom- 
passed them.  Being  their  father,  he  became  their  son.  There 
is  no  other  power  superior  to  him."  The  Vishwu,  Bhagavata, 
and  Padma  Pura/zas  state  that  Brahma  existed  in  the  form  of 
Time,  "  but  the  Puranas  do  not  generally  recognise  Time  as  an 
element  of  the  first  cause." 

KALAKA.  A  wife  of  Kasyapa.  According  to  the  Rama- 
yaTia  and  INIaha-bharata  she  was  a  daughter  of  Daksha,  but 
the  Yish?zu  Pura?ia  states  that  she  and  her  sister  Pulomil  were 
daughters  of  the  Danava  Yaiswanara,  "  who  were  both  married 
to  Kasyapa,  and  bore  him  60,000  distinguished  Danavas,  called 
Paulomas  and  Kfdakanjas,  Avho  were  powerful,  ferocious,  and 
cruel."  The  INlaha-bharata  states  that  she  obtained  from  the 
deity,  in  reward  for  her  severe  devotion  and  penance,  the 
privilege  of  bringing  forth  children  without  pain.  The  giants 
or  Danavas  were  called  after  her  Kfdakeyas. 

KALAKANJAS,  KALAKEYAS.  Sons  of  Ka^yapa  by  his 
wife  Krdaka.  There  were  many  thousands  of  them,  and  they 
were  "  distinguished  Danavas,  who  were  powerful,  ferocious, 
and  cruel." 


KALA-MUKHAS—KALL  141 

KALA-MUKHAS.  '  Black  faces.'  Peoi^le  who  sprang  from 
men  and  Eaksliasa  females. 

K  ALAN  AS.  (Kalytwa.)  A  Brahman  who  yielded  to  the 
inducements  of  Alexander  the  Great  and  left  his  native  country 
to  accompany  the  court  of  the  conqueror.  He  afterwards  re- 
pented of  what  he  had  done  and  burnt  himself  at  Pasargada. 

KALA-NEMI.  i.  In  the  Ramaya?ia  a  Rakshasa,  uncle  of 
Ravawn.  At  the  solicitation  of  Ravawa,  and  with  the  promise 
of  half  his  kingdom,  he  endeavoured  to  kill  Hanuman.  Assum- 
ing the  form  of  a  hermit-devotee,  he  went  to  the  Gandha-madana 
mountain,  and  when  Hanuman  proceeded  thither  in  search  of 
medicinal  herbs,  the  disguised  Rakshasa  invited  him  to  his 
hermitage  and  offered  him  food.  Hanuman  refused,  but  went 
to  bathe  in  a  neighbouring  pond.  Upon  his  placing  his  foot 
in  the  water  it  was  seized  by  a  crocodile,  but  he  dragged  the 
creature  out  and  killed  it.  From  the  dead  body  there  arose  a 
lovely  A]Dsaras,  who  had  been  cursed  by  Daksha  to  live  as  a 
crocodile  till  she  should  be  released  by  Hanuman.  She  told 
her  deliverer  to  be  beware  of  Kala-nemi ;  so  Hanuman  went 
back  to  that  deceiver,  told  him  that  he  knew  him,  and,  taking 
him  by  the  feet,  sent  him  whirling  through  the  air  to  Lanka, 
where  he  fell  before  the  throne  of  Rava?za  in  the  council-room. 
2.  In  the  Purawas  a  great  Asura,  son  of  Yirochana,  the  grandson 
of  Hira^iya-kasipu.  He  was  killed  by  Yish?zu,  but  was  said  to 
live  again  in  Kansa  and  in  Kaliya. 

KALA-YAYANA.  (Lit.  '  Black  Yavana,'  Yavana  meaning 
a  Greek  or  foreigner.)  A  Yavana  or  foreign  king  who  led  an  army 
of  barbarians  to  Mathura  against  K?'ish?ia.  That  hero  lured 
him  into  the  cave  of  the  mighty  Muchukunda,  who  being  dis- 
turbed from  sleep  by  a  kick  from  Kala-yavana,  cast  a  fiery 
glance  upon  him  and  reduced  him  to  ashes.  This  legend 
appears,  to  indicate  an  invasion  from  the  Himalayas.  Accord- 
ing to  the  A^ish?zu  Purawa  and  Hari-vansa,  Kala-yavana  was  the 
son  of  a  Brahman  named  Garga,  who  had  an  especial  spite 
against  the  Yadavas,  and  was  begotten  by  him  on  the  wife  of 
a  childless  Yavana  king. 

KALHA:N"A  pandit.  Author  of  the  Raja  TarangiwI,  a  his- 
tory of  Kashmir.    He  is  supposed  to  have  lived  about  1 148  a.d. 

KALI.  The  Kali-yuga,  personified  as  the  spirit  of  evil.  In 
playing  dice  Kali  is  the  ace,  and  so  is  a  personification  of  ill  luck. 


1 42  kAli—kAli-dasa  . 

KALI.  '  The  black. '  In  Yedic  days  this  name  was  asso- 
ciated Avith  Agni  (fire),  who  had  seven  flickering  tongues  of 
flame  for  devouring  oblations  of  butter.  Of  these  seven,  Krdl 
was  the  black  or  terrific  tongue.  This  ineaning  of  the  word  is 
now  lost,  but  it  has  developed  into  the  goddess  Kali,  the  fierce 
and  bloody  consort  of  Siva.     See  Devi. 

KALI-DASA.  The  greatest  poet  and  dramatist  of  India. 
He  was  one  of  "  the  nine  gems  "  that  adorned  the  court  of  King 
Yikramaditya  at  Ujjayini.  AVilson  inclines  to  the  behef  that 
this  was  the  Yikramadit}'a  whose  era  begins  in  56  B.C.,  but  Dr. 
Ehau  Daji  argues  in  favour  of  Harsha  Yikramaditya  who  lived 
in  the  middle  of  the  sixth  century,  so  the  date  of  Kali-dasa  is 
unsettled.  AVilliams  thinks  that  Kali-dasa  wrote  about  the 
beginning  of  the  third  century.  Lassen  places  him  half  a 
century  earlier.  Some  believe  that  there  w^as  more  than  one 
poet  who  bore  this  name  as  an  honorary  title.  Kali-dasa  was 
author  of  the  dramas  /S'akuntala  and  Yikramorvasi,  and  a  third 
drama  Malavikagnimitra  is  attributed  to  him.  >S'akuntala  was 
translated  by  Sir  W.  Jones,  and  first  brought  Sansk?-it  literature 
to  the  notice  of  Europe.  AYilson  has  translated  Yikramorvasi, 
and  given  a  sketch  of  Malavikagnimitra.  The  following  poems 
are  ascribed  to  Kali-dasa : — Raghu-vansa,  Kumara-sambhava, 
Megha-diita,  ^itu-sanhara,  Nalodaya,  but  his  authorship  of  all 
these,  especially  of  the  last,  may  well  be  doubted.  He  was  also 
author  of  the  ^ruta-bodha,  a  work  on  prosody.  The  merits' of 
Kali-dasa  as  a  poet  are  well  attested  by  his  great  popularity 
in  India,  as  well  as  by  the  great  favour  with  which  ^S'akuntala 
w^as  received  in  Europe,  and  the  praise  it  elicited  from  Goethe  : — 

"  Willst  du  die  Blutlie  des  friihen,  die  Frlichte  des  Rpiiteren  Jahres, 
"Willst  du,  was  reizt  und  entzuckt,  willst  du,  was  sattigt  und  niihrt, 
Willst  du  den  Himmel,  die  Erde,  mit  eiiiem  Namen  begreifen, 
Nenn'  ich  5akuntala  dich,  und  so  ist  AUes  gesagt."' 

"  Wouldst  thou  the  young  year's  blossoms  and  the  fruits  of  its  decline. 
And  all  by  which  the  soul  is  charmed,  enraptured,  feasted,  fed  ? 
Wouldst  thou  the  earth  and  heaven  itself  in  one  sole  name  combine  ? 
I  name  thee,  0  /S'akuntala  !  and  all  at  once  is  said." 

Lassen  in  his  IncUsche  Alterthumshunde  says,  "  Kfdi-dasa  may 
be  considered  as  the  brightest  star  in  the  firmament  of  Hindu 
artificial  poetry.      He  deserves  this  praise  on  account  of   the 


KALIKA—KALIKA-PURANA.  143 

mastery  witli  which  he  wields  the  language,  and  on  account  of 
the  consummate  tact  with  which  he  imparts  to  it  a  more  simple 
or  more  artificial  form,  according  to  the  requirements  of  the 
subjects  treated  by  him,  without  falling  into  the  artificial  dic- 
tion of  later  poets  or  over-stepping  the  limits  of  good  taste  ; 
on  account  of  the  variety  of  his  creations,  his  ingenious  con- 
ceptions, and  his  happy  choice  of  subjects ;  and  not  less  on 
account  of  the  complete  manner  in  which  he  attains  his  poetical 
ends,  the  beauty  of  his  narrative,  the  delicacy  of  his  sentiment, 
and  the  fertility  of  his  imagination."  Many  of  his  works  have 
been  translated,  and  there  is  a  French  translation  of  the  whole 
by  Fauche. 

IvALIKA.  The  goddess  Krdi. 

KALIKA  PURAiVA.  One  of  the  eighteen  Upa  Pura7ias. 
"  It  contains  about  9000  stanzas  in  98  chapters,  and  is  the 
only  work  of  the  series  dedicated  to  recommend  the  worship  of 
the  bride  of  AS'iva,  in  one  or  other  of  her  manifold  forms  as 
Giri-ja,  Devi,  Bhadra-kali,  Kali,  Maha-maya.  It  belongs,  there- 
fore, to  the  iS'akta  modification  of  Hindu  belief,  or  the  worship 
of  the  female  powers  of  the  deities.  The  influence  of  this 
worship  shows  itself  in  the  very  first  pages  of  the  work,  which 
relate  the  incestuous  passion  of  Brahma  for  his  daughter,  San- 
dhya,  in  a  strain  that  has  nothing  analogous  to  it  in  the  Vayu, 
Linga,  or  ^S^iva  Pura?ias.  The  marriage  of  ^S'iva  and  Parvati  is  a 
subject  early  described,  with  the  sacrifice  of  Daksha  and  the 
death  of  Satl.  And  this  work  is  authority  for  >S'iva's  carrying 
the  dead  body  about  the  world,  and  the  origin  of  the  Pi^ha- 
sthanas,  or  ^^laces  where  the  different  members  of  it  were  scat- 
tered, and  where  Lingas  were  consequently  erected.  A  legend 
follows  of  the  births  of  Bhairava  and  Yetala,  whose  devotion  to 
the  difierent  forms  of  Devi  furnishes  occasion  to  describe,  in 
great  detail,  the  rites  and  formulce  of  which  her  worship  consists, 
including  the  chajDters  on  sanguinary  sacrifices  translated  in  the 
Asiatic  Researches  (vol.  v.).  Another  peculiarity  in  this  work  is 
afi'orded  by  very  prolix  descriptions  of  a  number  of  rivers  and 
mountains  at  Kamarupa  Tirtha,  in  Assam,  and  rendered  holy 
ground  by  the  celebrated  temple  of  Durga  in  that  country,  as 
Kamakshi  or  Kamakshya.  It  is  a  singular  and  yet  uninvesti- 
gated circumstance,  that  Assam,  or  at  least  the  north-east  of 
Bengal,  seems  to  have  been,  in  a  great  degree,  the  source  from 


144  KALINDI—KALMASHA-PADA. 

which,  the  Tantrika  and  >Sakta  corruptions  of  the  religion  of  the 
Yedas  and  Piiruwas  proceeded." — Wilson. 

KALIXDI  A  name  of  the  river  Yamuna,  as  daughter  of 
Kalinda  (the  sun). 

EL^LIXGA.  The  country  along  the  Coromandel  coast,  north 
of  Madras.  The  Calingaa  proximi  mari  of  Pliny.  The  Purawas 
absurdly  make  it  one  of  the  sons  of  Bah. 

KALIYA.  A  serpent  king  who  had  five  heads,  and  dwelt  in 
a  deep  pool  of  the  Yamuna,  with  numerous  attendant  serpents. 
His  mouths  vomited  fire  and  smoke,  and  he  laid  waste  all  the 
country  round.  K?7'sh?2a,  while  yet  a  child,  jumped  into  his 
pool,  when  he  was  quickly  laced  and  entwined  in  the  coils  of 
the  snakes.  His  companions  and  friends  were  horrified,  but 
Bala-rama  called  upon  him  to  exercise  his  divine  power.  He 
did  so,  and  the  serpents  were  soon  overcome.  Placing  his  foot 
on  the  middle  head  of  Ivaliya,  he  compelled  him  and  his 
followers  to  implore  mercy.  He  spared  them,  but  bade  Kaliya 
and  his  followers  to  free  the  earth  from  their  presence,  and  to 
remove  to  the  ocean.  The  Asura  Kala-nemi  is  said  to  have  been 
animate  in  him. 

KALI  YUGA.  The  fourth  or  present  age  of  the  world,  which 
is  to  endure  for  432,000  years.  It  commenced  in  3102  b.c. 
See  Yuga. 

KALKI,  KALKIK  'The  white  horse.'  Yish?zu's  tenth 
incarnation,  which  is  yet  to  come.     Bee  Avatara. 

KALMASHA-PADA.  A  king  of  the  Solar  race,  son  of 
Su-dasa  (hence  he  is  called  Saudasa),  and  a  descendant  of 
Ikshwaku.  His  legend,  as  told  in  the  Maha-bharata,  relates 
that  while  hunting  in  the  forest  he  encountered  jS'aktri,  the 
eldest  son  of  Yasish^ha,  and  as  this  sage  refused  to  get  out  of 
his  way,  he  struck  him  with  his  whip.  The  incensed  sage 
cursed  him  to  become  a  cannibal.  This  curse  was  heard  by 
Yiswamitra,  the  rival  of  Yasish/ha,  and  he  so  contrived  that  the 
body  of  the  king  became  possessed  by  a  man-eating  Riikshasa. 
In  this  condition  he  caused  human  flesh  to  be  served  up  to  a 
Brahman  named  Mitrasaha,  who  discovered  what  it  was,  and 
intensified  the  curse  of  6'aktri  by  a  new  imprecation.  One  of 
Kalmasha-pada's  first  victims  was  >S'aktri  himself,  and  all  the 
hundred  sons  of  Yasish/ha  fell  a  prey  to  his  disordered  appetite. 
After  remaining  twelve  years  in  this  state,  he  was  restored  to 


KALMASHA-PADA—KAMA.  145 

liis  natural  condition  by  Vasish/ha.  The  Visliwii  Pura?ia  tells 
tlie  story  differently.  The  king  went  out  to  hunt  and  found 
two  destructive  tigers.  He  killed  one  of  them,  but  as  it  expired 
it  was  changed  into  a  Eiikshasa.  The  other  tiger  disappeared 
threatening  vengeance.  Kalmasha-pada  celebrated  a  sacrifice  at 
which  Vasish^ha  officiated.  When  it  was  over  and  Yasish/ha 
went  out,  the  Eakshasa  assumed  his  appearance,  and  proposed 
that  food  should  be  served.  Then  the  Rakshasa  transformed 
himself  into  a  cook,  and,  preparing  human  flesh,  he  served  it  to 
Vasish/ha  on  his  return.  The  indignant  sage  cursed  the  king 
that  henceforth  his  appetite  should  be  excited  only  by  similar 
food.  A  wrangle  ensued,  and  Vasish/ha  having  found  out  the 
truth,  limited  the  duration  of  his  curse  to  twelve  years.  The 
angry  king  took  water  in  his  hands  to  pronounce,  in  his  turn,  a 
curse  upon  Yasish/ha,  but  was  dissuaded  from  his  purpose  by 
his  wife,  Madayanti.  "  Unwilling  to  cast  the  water  on  the 
ground,  lest  it  should  wither  up  the  grain,  and  equally  reluctant 
to  throw  it  up  into  the  air,  lest  it  should  blast  the  clouds  and 
dry  up  their  contents,  he  threw  it  upon  his  own  feet,"  and  they 
were  so  scalded  by  it  that  they  became  black  and  white,  and 
so  gained  for  him  the  name  of  Kalmasha-pada,  'spotted  feet.' 
Every  day  for  twelve  years,  at  the  sixth  watch  of  the  day,  he 
gave  way  to  his  cannibal  appetite,  "  and  devoured  multitudes  of 
men."  On  one  occasion  he  devoured  a  Brahman  in  the  midst 
of  his  connubial  happiness,  and  the  Brahman's  wife  passed  upon 
him  a  curse  that  he  should  die  whenever  he  associated  with  his 
wife.  At  the  expiration  of  Yasish/ha's  curse,  the  king  returned 
home,  but,  mindful  of  the  Brahmarii's  imprecation,  he  abstained 
from  conjugal  intercourse.  By  the  interposition  of  Yasish/ha, 
his  wife,  Madayanti,  became  pregnant,  and  bore  a  child  in  her 
womb  for  seven  years,  when  she  performed  the  Csesarean  opera- 
tion with  a  sharp  stone,  and  a  child  came  forth  who  was  called 
Asmaka  (from  Asman,  'a  stone'). 

KALPA.  A  day  and  night  of  Brahma,  4,320,000,000  years. 
8ee  Yuga. 

KALPA,  KALPA  StJTEAS.  Ceremonial;  one  of  the 
Yedangas.  A  ceremonial  directory  or  rubric  expressed  in  the 
form  of  Sutras,  short  technical  rules. 

KAMA,  KAMA-DEYA.  The  god  of  love.  Eros,  Cupid. 
In  the  itzg-veda  (x.  129)  desire  is  said  to  have  been  the  first 

K 


146  KAMA. 

movement  that  arose  in  the  One  after  it  had  come  into  life 
through  the  power  of  fervour  or  abstractioiL  "  Desire  first  arose 
in  It,  which  was  the  primal  germ  of  mind ;  (and  which)  sages, 
searching  with  their  intellect,  have  discovered  in  their  heart  to 
be  the  bond  which  coimects  entity  with  non-entity."  "  It  is 
well  known,"  observes  Dr.  Muir,  "  that  Greek  mythology  con- 
nected Eros,  the  god  of  love,  with  the  creation  of  the  universe 
somewhat  in  the  same  way."  "  This  Kama  or  desire,  not  of 
sexual  enjoyment,  but  of  good  in  general,  is  celebrated  in  a  curi- 
ous hymn  of  the  Atharva-veda,"  which  exalts  Kama  into  a 
supreme  God  and  Creator :  "  Kama  was  born  the  first.  Him 
neither  gods,  nor  fathers,  nor  men  have  equalled.  Thou  art 
superior  to  these  and  for  ever  great."  In  another  part  of  the 
same  Yeda  Kama  appears  to  be  first  desire,  then  the  power 
which  gratifies  the  desire.  Kama  is  also  in  the  same  Veda  often 
identified  with  Agni,  and  when  "  distinguished  from  each  other, 
Kama  may  be  looked  upon  as  a  superior  form  of  the  other 
deity."  According  to  the  Taittiriya  Brahmawa,  he  is  the  son  of 
Dharma,  the  god  of  justice,  by  /S'raddha,  the  goddess  of  faith; 
but  according  to  the  Hari-vansa  he  is  son  of  Lakshmi.  Another 
account  represents  him  as  springing  from  the  heart  of  Brahma. 
A  fourth  view  is  that  he  was  born  from  water,  wherefore  he  is 
called  Irii-ja,  'the  water-born  ;'  a  fifth  is  that  he  is  Atma-bhu, 
'  self-existent,'  and  therefore  he  is  called,  like  other  of  the  gods, 
A-ja,  'unborn,'  or  An-anya-ja,  '  born  of  no  other.'  In  the  Pui'a«as 
his  wife  is  Rati  or  Reva,  the  goddess  of  desire  He  inspired 
^iva  with  amorous  thoughts  of  Parvati  while  he  was  engaged  in 
penitential  devotion,  and  for  this  ofi'ence  the  angry  god  reduced 
him  to  ashes  by  fire  from  his  central  eye.  ^'iva  afterwards 
relented  and  allowed  Kama  to  be  born  again  as  Prad^Timna,  son 
of  Krishna  and  Rukmi?ii  or  Maya,  'delusion.'  He  has  a  son 
named  Aniruddlia,  and  a  daughter,  T?'isha.  He  is  lord  of  the 
Apsarases  or  heavenly  nymphs.  He  is  armed  with  a  bow  and 
arrows  :  the  bow  is  of  sugar-cane,  the  bowstring  a  line  of  bees, 
and  each  arrow  is  tipped  with  a  distinct  flower.  He  is  usually 
represented  as  a  handsome  youth  riding  on  a  j^arrot  and  attended 
by  nymphs,  one  of  whom  bears  his  bamier  dis])laying  tlie  Makara, 
or  a  fish  on  a  red  ground. 

The  mysterious  origin  of  Kama  and  tlic  universal  operation 
of  tlie  passion  he  insijircs  have  accumulated  upon  him  a  great 


KAMA—KAMPILYA.  147 

variety  of  names  and  epithets.  Among  his  names  are  Ishma, 
Kanjana  and  Kinkira,  Mada,  Kama  or  Eama?za,  and  Smara. 
As  produced  in  the  mind  or  heart  he  is  Bhava-ja  and  Mano-ja. 
As  Pradyiinma,  son  of  Krish?ia,  he  is  Karshm,  and  as  son  of 
Lakshmi  he  is  Mayi  or  Maya-siita  and  ^S'ri-nandana.  As  reduced 
to  ashes  by  6'iva  he  is  An-anga,  '  the  bodiless.'  He  is  Abhi-rupa, 
*  the  beautiful;'  Darpaka  and  Dipaka,  'the  inflamer  ;'  Gada- 
yitnu,  Gr^i'dliu,  and  Gr/tsa,  '  lustful  or  sharp  ; '  Kamana  and 
Kharu,  '  desirous  ;'  Kandarpa,  '  the  inflamer  of  Brahma;'  Kantu, 
'the  happy;'  Ivalakeli,  '  the  gay  or  wanton ; '  Mara,  'destroyer;' 
Mayi,  'deluder;'  Madliu-dipa,  'the  lamp  of  honey  or  of  spring;' 
Muliira,  '  the  bewilderer ; '  Murmura,  '  the  crackling  fire;'  Eaga- 
vrmta,  '  the  stalk  of  passion ;'  Eupastra,  '  the  weapon  of  beauty;' 
Eata-naricha,  '  the  voluptuary ; '  /S'amantaka,  'destroyer  of  peace;' 
Sansara-guru,  'teacher  of  the  world;'  Smara,  'remembrance;' 
>S'?'mgara-yoni,  'source  of  love;'  Titha,  'fire;'  Yama,  'the 
handsome.'  From  his  bow  and  arrows  he  is  called  Kusuma- 
yudha,  'armed  with  flowers;'  Pushpa-dhanus,  'whose  bow  is 
flowers  ;'  and  Pushpa-5ara,  'whose  arrows  are  flowers.'  Prom 
his  banner  he  is  known  as  Makara-ketu  ;  and  from  the  flower 
he  carries  in  his  hand  he  is  Pushpa-ketana. 

KAMA-DHENU.  The  cow  which  grants  desires,  belonging 
to  the  sage  Yasish^ha.  She  was  produced  at  the  churning  of 
the  ocean.  Among  the  examples  of  her  supernatural  powers 
was  the  creation  of  a  host  of  warriors  who  aided  Yasishflia 
against  Karta-virya.  She  is  called  also  Kama-duh,  iS'avala,  and 
Surabhi. 

KAMAKSHL  A  form  of  Devi  worshipped  at  Kamarupa- 
tirtha  in  Assam.     See  Kahka  Purawa. 

KAMANDAKI.  Author  of  a  work  known  by  his  name  on 
"The  Elements  of  Polity."  The  text  has  been  printed  in  the 
Bihliotheca  Indica  by  Eajendra  Lala  Mittra. 

KAMAEUPA.  The  north-eastern  part  of  Bengal  and  the 
western  portion  of  Assam.  The  name  still  survives  as  Kam- 
riip. 

KAMBOJAS.  A  race  or  tribe  always  associated  with  the 
tribes  living  to  the  north-west,  and  famous  for  their  horses. 
They  were  among  the  races  conquered  by  King  Sagara, 

KAMPILYA.  The  city  of  King  Drupada  in  the  country 
of  the  PanchalaSj  where  the  swayam-vara  of  Draupadi  was  held 


148  KAMYAKA—KANISHKA. 

It  corresponds  with  the  Kampila  of  modern  times,  situated 
in  the  Doab  on  the  old  Ganges,  between  Badaiin  and  Farrukh- 
ahad. 

KAMYAKA.  The  forest  in  which  the  Pa?it?avas  passed  their 
exile  on  the  banks  of  the  Saras wati. 

KAA^AJDA.  The  sage  who  founded  the  Vaiseshika  school  of 
philosophy.     See  Dar^ana. 

KANCHI.     One  of  the  seven  sacred  cities,  liodie  Conjeveram. 

KAXDAEPA.     The  Hindu  Cupid.     See  Kama. 

KAiV7)ARSHI.  A  i^i'shi  who  teaches  one  particular  Kawc?a 
or  part  of  the  Yedas. 

KAiVDU.  A  sage  who  was  beguiled  from  long  and  severe 
austerities  by  Pramlocha,  a  nymph  sent  from  heaven  by  Indra 
for  this  purpose.  He  lived  with  her  some  hundreds  of  years, 
which  seemed  to  him  only  as  a  day,  but  he  at  length  repudiated 
her  and  "  went  to  the  region  of  Vish?m."  Pramlocha  gave  birth, 
in  an  extraordinary  manner,  to  his  daughter  Marisha  (q.v.). 

KANISHKA.  "  Hushka,  Jushka,  Kanishka."  These  are  the 
names  recorded  in  the  Raja  Tarangiwi  of  three  great  Turushka, 
that  is  Turk  or  Tatar,  kings,  who  were  of  the  Buddhist  religion. 
It  may,  perhaps,  be  taken  for  granted  that  Hushka  and  Jushka 
come  in  their  natural  succession,  for  the  names  might  be  trans- 
posed without  detriment  to  the  metre ;  but  the  short  syllable 
of  the  name  Kanishka  is  required  where  it  stands  by  the  rules 
of  prosody,  so  that  the  position  of  the  name  in  the  verse  is  not 
decisive  of  his  place  in  the  succession  of  kings.  Nothing  is 
known  of  Jushka  beyond  the  simple  recital  of  his  name  as 
above  quoted,  but  the  names  of  Kanishka  and  Hushka  (or 
Huvishka)  have  been  found  in  inscriptions  and  upon  coins, 
showing  that  their  dominions  were  of  considerable  extent  in 
Northern  India,  and  that  they  were,  as  the  Rrija  Tarangi/il  re- 
presents, great  supporters  of  the  Buddhist  religion.  The  name 
of  Kanishka  has  been  found  in  inscriptions  at  Matlmra,  Manik- 
yala,  Bhawalpur,  and  Zeda,  while  his  name  appears  on  the 
corrupt  Greek  coins  as  Kanerki.  Iluvishka's  name  has  been 
found  at  Mathura,  and  on  a  metal  vase  from  Wardak  in 
Afghanistan ;  on  the  coins  his  name  is  represented  as  Oerki. 
Kanishka  preceded  Huvishka,  and  it  is  certain  that  their  reigns 
covered  a  period  of  fifty-one  years,  and  probably  more.  The  time 
at  which  they  reigned  seems  to  have  been  just  before  the  Chris- 


K ANSA— K ANY A-KUMARI.  149 

tian  era.  A  Eoman  coin  of  tlie  date  2,Z  ^•^'  ^^^  found  in  the 
tQpe  of  Manikyala,  wliicli  was  built  by  Kanishka. 

KAN^S'A.  A  tyrannical  king  of  Mathura,  son  of  Ugra-sena 
and  cousin  of  Devaki  the  mother  of  K?'ish?ia  ;  so  he  was  the 
cousin,  not  the  uncle,  of  K7*ish?ia,  as  he  is  often  called.  He 
married  two  daughters  of  Jara-sandha,  king  of  Magadha.  He 
deposed  his  father.  It  was  foretold  that  a  son  born  of  Devaki 
should  kill  him,  so  he  endeavoured  to  destroy  all  her  children. 
But  Bala-rama,  her  seventh  son,  was  smuggled  away  to  Gokula, 
and  was  brought  up  by  Rohi??-!.  When  Krishwa  the  eighth  was 
born  his  parents  fled  with  him.  The  tyrant  then  gave  orders 
for  a  general  massacre  of  all  vigorous  male  infants.  Ivansa 
became  the  great  persecutor  of  K?ish?2a,  but  was  eventually 
killed  by  him.  Kansa  is  also  called  Kalankura,  'crane.'  He  is 
looked  upon  as  an  Asura,  and  is  in  some  way  identified  with 
the  Asura  Kala-nemi. 

KANaS'A-BADHA.  a  drama  in  seven  acts  upon  the  de- 
struction of  Kansa  by  K^'ishwa.  The  author  is  called  Krishwa 
Kavi,  and  the  play  was  probably  written  about  two  centuries 
ago.  It  is  weak  as  a  drama,  but  "  the  language  is  in  general 
good,  although  highly  elaborate." — Wilson. 

KATVWA.     Bee  iS'atapatha  Brahmayia. 

KAiVWA.  I^ame  of  a  i?ishi  to  whom  some  hymns  of  the 
i?*g-veda  are  ascribed  ;  he  is  sometimes  counted  as  one  of  the 
seven  great  i^ishis.  The  sage  who  brought  up  /S'akuntala  as  his 
daughter.     There  are  several  others  of  the  same  name. 

KAiV^WAS.     The  descendants  or  followers  of  KaTiwa. 

KANYA-KUBJA.  The  modern  form  of  the  name  is  Kanauj 
or  Kinnauj,  spelt  in  a  variety  of  ways.  i.  An  ancient  city 
of  Hindustan  on  the  Kali-nadi,  an  affluent  of  the  Ganges,  and 
lying  a  little  to  the  west  of  the  latter.  It  was  once  the  capital 
of  a  powerful  dynasty.  It  was  known  to  classical  geographers 
as  "Canogyza."  The  name  means  "humpbacked  damsel,"  and 
refers  to  a  legend  relating  to  the  hundred  daughters  of  King 
Kusa-nabha,  who  were  all  made  crooked  by  Vayu  for  refusing 
to  comply  with  his  licentious  desires.  2.  A  great  national  divi- 
sion of  the  Brahman  caste.     Bee  Brahman. 

KANYA-KUMARI.  'The  virgin-damsel.'  A  name  of 
Durga.  Her  worship  extended  to  the  southernmost  extremity 
of  India  in  the  days  of  Pliny,  and  'Kumarl'  still  appears  in  the 
name  Cape  Comorin. 


I50  KAPARDIN—KARNA, 

KAPAKDIX.  '  Wearing  the  kaparda,'  a  peculiar  braid  or 
knot  of  hair.  This  epithet  is  applied  to  /Siva,  to  one  of  the 
Rudras,  and  some  others. 

KAPI-DHWAJA.  An  epithet  of  Arjiina,  because  he  bore 
an  ape  Qcain)  on  his  standard  (dhicaja). 

KAPILA.  A  celebrated  sage,  the  founder  of  the  Sankhya 
philosophy.  The  Hari-vansa  makes  him  the  son  of  Vitatha. 
He  is  sometimes  identified  with  Yishmi  and  sometimes  with 
Agni.  He  is  said  to  have  destroyed  the  hundred  thousand  sons 
of  King  Sagara  with  a  glance.     See  Sagara. 

KAPILA,  KAPILA-VASTU.  A  town  on  the  river  Rohim, 
an  affluent  of  the  Rapti,  which  was  the  capital  of  /S'uddhodana, 
the  father  of  Gotama  Buddha. 

KAPILA  PURAiVA.     See  PurSwa. 

KAPIaSA.  Mother  of  the  Pi^achas,  who  bear  the  metro- 
nymic Kapiseya. 

KARALl  '  Dreadful,  terrible.'  In  Vedic  times  one  of  the 
seven  tongues  of  Agni  (fire),  but  in  later  days  a  name  of  the 
terrible  consort  of  /Siva.     See  Devi. 

KARDAIMA.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata  and  Ra,maya?ia, 
he  is  one  of  the  Prajapatis  who  sprang  from  Brahma.  Accord- 
ing to  other  authorities,  he,  or  another  sage  of  the  same  name, 
was  a  son  of  Daksha  or  a  son  of  Pulaha, 

KARMA-MIMANSA.     The  Piirva-mimansa.     See  Darsana. 

KARMA  -  MIMANSA  -  SUTRA.  A  work  on  the  Vedanta 
philosophy,  ascribed  to  Jaimini. 

KARiV^A.  Son  of  Pritha  or  Kunti  by  Siirya,  the  sun,  before 
her  marriage  to  Pa?ic?u.  Karwa  was  thus  half-brother  of  the 
Paw^Zavas,  but  this  relationship  was  not  known  to  them  till 
after  his  death.  KuntI,  on  one  occasion,  paid  such  attention 
to  the  sage  Dur-vasas,  that  he  gave  her  a  charm  by  virtue  of 
which  she  might  have  a  child  by  any  god  she  preferred  to 
invoke.  She  chose  the  sun,  and  the  result  was  Kar?ia,  who 
was  born  equipped  with  arms  and  armour.  Afraid  of  censure 
and  disgrace,  Kunti  exposed  the  child  on  the  banks  of  the 
Yamuna,  where  it  was  found  by  Nandana  or  Adhiratha,  the 
suta  or  charioteer  of  Dhrita-rashi^a.  The  charioteer  and  his 
wife,  Radhii,  brought  him  up  as  their  own,  and  the  child  passed 
as  such.  When  he  grew  up,  Indra  disguised  himself  as  a  Brah- 
man, and  cajoled  him  out  of  his  divine  cuirass.     He  gave  him 


KARNA—KARTA-VIR  YA.  151 

in  return  great  strength  and  a  javelin  charged  with  certain  death 
to  whomsoever  it  was  hurled  against.  Karwa  became  king  of  Anga 
or  Bengal.  Some  authorities  represent  his  foster-father  as  having 
been  ruler  of  that  country,  but  others  say  that  Kar?ia  was  made 
king  of  Anga  by  Dur-yodhana,  in  order  to  qualify  him  to  figlit 
in  the  passage  of  arms  at  the  swayam-vara  of  Draupadi.  This 
princess  haughtily  rejected  him,  saying,  "  I  wed  not  with  the 
base-born."  Kar/ia  knew  that  he  was  half-brother  of  the  Pa?^- 
6?avas,  but  he  took  the  side  of  their  cousins,  the  Kauravas,  and 
he  had  especial  rivalry  and  animosity  against  Arjuna,  whom 
he  vowed  to  kill.  In  the  great  battle  he  killed  Ghatotkacha, 
the  son  of  Bhima,  with  Indra's  javelin.  Afterwards  there  was  a 
terrific  combat  between  him  and  Arjuna,  in  which  the  latter  was 
nearly  overpowered,  but  he  killed  Kar7^a  with  a  crescent-shaped 
arrow.  After  Kar?ia's  death  his  relationship  to  the  Pa?z6?avas 
became  known  to  them,  and  they  showed  their  regret  for  his 
loss  by  great  kindness  to  his  widows,  children,  and  dependants. 
From  his  father,  Vikarttana  (the  sun),  Karwa  was  called  Yaikart- 
tana ;  from  his  foster-parents,  Vasu-sena ;  from  his  foster-father's 
profession,  Adhirathi  and  Suta ;  and  from  his  foster-mother, 
Radheya.  He  was  also  called  Anga-raja,  '  king  of  Anga  ; '  Cham- 
padhipa,  'king  of  Champa;'  and  Kanina,  'the  bastard.' 

KARiVA-PRAVARAAA^S.  Men  whose  ears  served  them 
for  coverings.  They  are  mentioned  in  the  Maha-bharata,  Rama- 
yawa,  and  other  works. 

KARA^ArA,  KARA^AJAKA.  The  country  where  the 
Canarese  language  is  spoken,  in  the  central  districts  of  the 
Peninsula,  including  Mysore.  The  name  "  Carnatic"  is  derived 
from  this. 

KARTA-VlRYA.  Son  of  Knta-virya,  king  of  the  Haihayas. 
This  is  his  patronymic,  by  which  he  is  best  known ;  his  real 
name  was  Arjuna.  "  Having  worshipped  a  portion  of  the  divine 
being  called  Dattatreya,  sprung  from  the  race  of  Atri,  he  sought 
and  obtained  these  boons,  viz.,  a  thousand  arms  and  a  golden 
chariot  that  went  wheresoever  he  willed  it  to  go ;  the  power  of 
restraining  wrong  by  justice ;  the  conquest  of  the  earth  and  the 
disposition  to  rule  it  righteously  ;  invincibility  by  enemies,  and 
death  at  the  hands  of  a  man  renowned  over  the  whole  world. 
By  him  this  earth  was  perfectly  governed,"  and  of  him  it  is 
said  : — "  No  other  king  shall  ever  equal  Karta-vlrya  in  regard 


152  KARTi^IKEYA. 

to  sacrifices,  liberality,  austerities,  courtesy,  and  self-restraint." 
"Thus  he  ruled  for  85,000  years  with  unbroken  health,  prosperity, 
strength,  and  valour, " —  V.  P.  He  visited  the  hermitage  of  Jamad- 
agni,  and  was  received  by  that  sage's  wife  with  all  respect ;  but  he 
made  an  ill  return  for  her  hospitality,  and  carried  off  by  violence 
"  the  calf  of  the  milch-cow  of  the  sacred  oblation."  For  this 
outrage  Parasu-rama  cut  olBf  his  thousand  arms  and  killed  him. 
In  another  place  a  different  character  is  given  to  him,  and  more 
in  accordance  with  his  behaviour  at  Jamad-agni's  hut.  "He 
oppressed  both  men  and  gods,"  so  that  the  latter  appealed  to 
Yish?m  for  succour.  That  god  then  came  down  to  the  earth  as 
Para5u-rama  for  the  especial  purpose  of  killing  him.  Karta- 
virya  was  the  contemporary  of  Eavawa,  and  when  that  demon 
monarch  came  "  in  the  course  of  his  campaign  of  conquest  to 
Mahishmati  (the  capital  of  Karta-virya),  he  was  captured  with- 
out difficulty,  and  Avas  confined  like  a  wild  beast  in  a  corner  of 
his  city."  The  statement  of  the  Yayu  Pura?ia  is  that  Karta- 
virya  invaded  Lanka,  and  there  took  Eavarza  prisoner. 

KAETTIKEYA.  The  god  of  war  and  the  planet  Mars,  also 
called  Skanda.  He  is  said  in  the  Maha-bharata  and  Eamayawa 
to  be  the  son  of  ^Siva  or  Eudra,  and  to  have  been  produced 
without  the  intervention  of  a  woman.  iSiva  cast  his  seed  into 
fire,  and  it  was  afterwards  received  by  the  Ganges  :  Kartti- 
keya  was  the  result ;  hence  he  is  called  Agni-bhii  and  Ganga-ja. 
He  was  fostered  by  the  Pleiades  (K7'ittika),  and  hence  he  has 
six  heads  and  the  name  Karttikeya.  His  paternity  is  some- 
times assigned  to  Agni  (fire) ;  Ganga  (the  Ganges)  and  Parvati 
are  variously  represented  to  be  his  mother.  He  was  born  for 
the  purpose  of  destroying  Taraka,  a  Daitya  whose  austerities  had 
made  him  formidable  to  the  gods.  He  is  represented  riding  on 
a  peacock  called  Paravawi,  holding  a  bow  in  one  hand  and  an 
arrow  in  the  other.  His  wife  is  Kaumarl  or  Sena,  He  has 
many  titles :  as  a  warrior  he  is  called  Maha-sena,  Sena-pati ; 
Siddha-sena,  '  leader  of  the  Siddhas ; '  and  Yudha-ranga ;  also 
Kumara,  the  boy ;  Guha,  '  the  mysterious  one ; '  /S^akti-dhara, 
'  spear-holder ; '  and  in  the  south  he  is  called  Su-brahmawya. 
He  is  Gangii-putra,  '  son  of  the  Ganges  ; '  ASara-bhfi,  '  born  in 
the  thicket;'  Taraka-jit,  'vanquisher  of  Taraka;'  Dwada.sa-kara 
and  Dwadasaksha,  '  twelve-handed  '  ami  '  twelve-eyed  ; '  iiiju- 
kaya,  'straight-bodied.'     *S'c'6' Krauncha. 


KARUSHAS—KATHAKA.  153 

KARUSHAS.  A  people  of  Malwa,  inhabiting  the  back  of 
the  Yindhya  mountains.  They  are  said  to  be  descended  from 
Karusha,  one  of  the  sons  of  the  Manu  Vaivaswata. 

KA/S'I     Benares. 

KAaSI  KHAiVDA.  A  long  poem,  forming  a  part  of  the 
Skanda  Purawa.  It  gives  a  very  minute  description  of  the 
temples  of  /Siva  in  and  around  Benares,  and  is  presumably  an- 
terior to  the  Mahomedan  conquest.     8e&  Skanda  PuraT^a. 

KA/SYAPA.  A  Vedic  sage  to  whom  some  hymns  are  attri- 
buted. All  authorities  agree  in  assigning  to  him  a  large  part 
in  the  work  of  creation.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  the 
RamayaTza,  and  the  Purawas,  he  was  the  son  of  Marichi,  the  son 
of  Brahma,  and  he  was  father  of  Yivaswat,  the  father  of  Manu, 
the  progenitor  of  mankind.  The  iSatapatha  Brahma?za  gives 
a  dijfferent  and  not  very  intelligible  account  of  his  origin 
thus  : — "  Having  assumed  the  form  of  a  tortoise,  Prajapati 
created  ofFs]oring.  That  which  he  created  he  made  (akarot) ; 
hence  the  word  Jcurma  (tortoise).  Kasyapa  means  tortoise ; 
hence  men  say,  '  All  creatures  are  descendants  of  Kasyapa.' 
This  tortoise  is  the  same  as  Aditya."  The  Atharva-veda  says, 
"  The  self -born  Kasyapa  sprang  from  Time,"  and  Time  is 
often  identical  with  Yishwu.  The  Maha-bharata  and  later 
authorities  agree  in  representing  that  Kasyapa  married  Aditi 
and  twelve  other  daughters  of  Daksha.  Uj)on  Aditi  he 
begat  the  Adityas,  headed  by  Indra,  and  also  Yivaswat,  and 
"  to  Yivaswat  was  born  the  wise  and  mighty  Manu."  The 
Eamaya?2a  and  Yislmu  Pura?ia  also  state  that  "Yishmi  was 
born  as  a  dwarf,  the  son  of  Aditi  and  Kasyapa."  By  his 
other  twelve  wives  he  had  a  numerous  and  very  diversified 
offspring:  demons,  nagas,  reptiles,  birds,  and  all  kinds  of 
living  things.  He  was  thus  the  father  of  all,  and  as  such  is 
sometimes  called  Prajapati.  He  is  one  of  the  seven  great  Bishis, 
and  he  appears  as  the  priest  of  Parasu-rama  and  Rama-chandra. 

KA-TANTRA.  A  Sanskrit  grammar  by  Sarva-varman. 
Edited  by  Eggeling  for  the  JBibliotheca  Indica. 

KATA-PRIJ.  '  Worm.'  A  class  of  beings  similar  to  or  iden- 
tical with  the  Yidya-dliaras. 

KATHA.  Kame  of  a  Upanishad  (q.v.).  It  has  been 
translated  by  Dr.  Roer  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica. 

KA^'HAKA.      A    school  or   recension    of   the   Yajur-veda, 


154  KATHARNAVA—KAUSALYA. 

occupying  a  position  between  the  Black  and  the  ^\niite.  It  is 
supposed  to  he  lost, 

KATHAitiVAVA.  *  Sea  of  stories.'  A  compilation  of  mis- 
cellaneous stories  in  four  hooks ;  the  first  two  are  the  originals 
of  the  Hindi  Baital  Pachisi  and  Singhasan  Battisi. 

KATHA-SAEIT-SAGAEA.  'The  ocean  of  the  rivers  of 
stories.'  A  collection  of  popular  stories  by  Soma-deva-bha^^a  of 
Kashmir,  made  about  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  century  a.d. 
It  is  drawn  from  a  larger  work  called  Brihat-katha.  Thet  ext 
has  been  printed  and  in  part  translated  by  Brockhaus. 

KATYAYAXA.  An  ancient  writer  of  great  celebrity,  who 
came  after  Pacini,  whose  grammar  he  completed  and  corrected 
in  what  he  called  Yarttikas,  '  supplementary  rules  and  annota- 
tions.' He  is  generally  identified  with  Yararuchi,  the  author  of 
the  Prak?7'ta  Prakasa.  Max  Miiller  places  him  in  the  second 
half  of  the  fourth  century  B.C.  ;  Goldstiicker  in  the  first  half 
of  the  second  century  B.C.  ;  AYeber  about  twenty-five  years 
B.C.  Besides  his  additions  to  Pacini's  Grammar,  he  was  the 
author  of  the  )S'rauta-sutras  which  bear  his  name,  and  of  the 
Yajur-veda  Pratisakhya.  His  Siitras  have  been  edited  by  Weber. 
A  story  in  the  Katha-sarit-sagara  makes  him  the  incarnation  of 
a  demigod  named  Pushpa-danta.  A  Katyayana  was  author  also 
of  a  Dharma-sastra. 

KATYAYAXL     A  name  of  Durga.     See  DevL 

KAUMARA.     The  creation  of  the  Kumaras  (q.v.). 

KAUMODAKL  The  mace  of  Xrish?za,  presented  to  him  by 
Agni  when  engaged  with  him  in  fighting  against  Indra  and 
burning  the  KhaTZ^ava  forest. 

KAUNDIiVYA  An  ancient  sage  and  grammarian.  He 
offended  /S^iva,  but  was  saved  from  that  god's  wrath  by  Yish?zu  : 
he  was  hence  called  Yishwu-gupta,  '  saved  by  Yish?zu.' 

KAUNTEYA.  Son  of  Kuntl.  A  metronymic  applicable  to 
Yudlii-sh^hira,  Bhima,  and  Arjuna,  but  commonly  applied  to 
Arjuna. 

KAURAYAS.  Descendants  of  Kuru.  A  patronymic  espe- 
cially applied  to  the  sons  of  Dhrita-rash/ra.     See  Maha-bharata. 

KAUSALYA  (mas.),  KAUSALYA  (fem.).  Belonging  to 
the  Kosala  nation.  There  are  several  women  known  by  this 
name.  The  wife  of  Puru  and  mother  of  Janamejaya.  The 
wife  of  Dasa-ratha  and  mother  of  Rama.     {See  Dasa-ratha.)    The 


KA  USAMBI—KA  VA  SB  A.  1 5  5 

mother  of  Dhrita-rasli^ra  and  the  mother  of  Vmclu  both  were 
known  by  this  name,  being  daughters  of  a  king  of  Kasl. 

KAU/SAMBI.  The  cajDital  of  Vatsa,  near  the  junction  of  the 
Ganges  and  Jumna.  An  inscription  found  at  Karra  on  the  Ganges 
mentions  that  place  as  being  situated  in  Kau6ambi-maw/ala,  the 
circle  of  Kausambi;  but  General  Cunningham  identifies  the 
place  with  the  village  of  Kosam,  said  to  be  still  called  Kosambi- 
iiagar  on  the  Jumna,  about  thirty  miles  above  Allahabad.  It  is 
the  scene  of  the  drama  Ratnavali. 

KAUSHlTAKl.  i.  A  sakha  of  the  i^ig-veda.  2.  (Kaushl- 
taki)  the  name  of  a  Brahmawa,  an  Ara?2-yaka,  and  a  Upanishad. 
{See  those  terms.)  The  Brahmawa  has  been  published  with  a 
translation  by  Professor  Cowell  in  the  Bibliotheca  IncUca. 

KAU>S'IKA.  A  devotee  mentioned  in  the  Maha-bharata  as 
having  gone  to  a  hell  of  torment  for  having  pointed  out  to 
robbers  a  road  by  which  they  pursued  and  killed  some  persons 
who  fled  from  them. 

KAUaS'IKAS.  Descendants  of  Kusika  (q.v.).  •  In  one  of  the 
hymns  of  the  Big  the  epithet  is  given  to  Indra. 

KAU>S'IKI.  The  river  Kosi  in  Bihar,  but  there  were  more 
rivers  than  one  bearing  this  name.  Satyavati,  mother  of  Jamad- 
agni  is  said  to  have  been  changed  into  a  river  of  this  name. 

KAUSTUBHA.  A  celebrated  jewel  obtained  at  the  churn- 
ing of  the  ocean,  and  worn  by  YishTiu  or  'Krishna,  on  his  bosom. 

KAUTILYA.  Another  name  of  Chawakya,  the  minister  of 
Chandra-gupta.     See  Cha?iakya. 

KAUTSA.  A  rationalistic  philosopher,  who  lived  before  the 
days  of  Yaska  the  author  of  the  Nirukta.  He  regarded  "  the 
Veda  as  devoid  of  meaning,  and  the  Brahmawas  as  false  inter- 
pretations."    Yaska  replied  to  his  objections. 

KAUTUKA-SARVASWA.  A  modern  farce,  in  two  acts, 
by  a  'PsLudit  named  Gopi-natha.  "It  is  a  satire  uj)on  princes 
who  addict  themselves  to  idleness  and  sensuahty,  and  fail  to 
patronise  the  Brahmans." — Wilson. 

KAYASHA,  KAYASHA-AILtJSHA.  Son  of  Iliisha  by  a 
slave  girl.  He  was  author  of  several  hymns  in  the  tenth  book 
of  the  i^ig-veda.  The  Aitareya  Brahmawa  relates  that  the  ^ishis 
were  performing  a  sacrifice  on  the  banks  of  the  Saraswati,  and 
that  Kavasha  was  with  them ;  but  they  drove  him  from  among 
them  because  he  was  the  son  of  a  slave,  and  therefore  unworthy 


156  KAVI-RAJA—KESI-DHWAJA. 

to  drink  the  water  of  the  Saraswati.  When  he  was  alone  in  the 
desert,  a  prayer  was  revealed  to  him  hy  which  he  prevailed  over 
the  Saraswati,  and  its  waters  came  and  surrounded  him.  The 
7?/shis  saw  this,  and  knowing  that  it  was  by  the  special  favour 
of  the  gods,  they  admitted  him  to  their  society. 

KAYI-EAJA.  Author  of  a  poem  of  studied  ambiguity 
called  Eaghava-Pa7zc?aviyam  (q.v.). 

KAYYA-DAR>S'A  'Mirror  of  poetry.'  A  work  on  the 
Ars  Poetica  by  >S'ri  Dawc^L  It  has  been  j^rinted  in  the  Biblio- 
theca  Indka. 

KAVYA-PRAKAaS'A.  a  work  on  poetry  and  rhetoric  by 
Mamma /a  Bha/^a  of  Kashmir.     It  has  been  printed  at  Calcutta. 

KAY YAS,  KAYYAS.  A  class  of  Pitns  ;  according  to  some 
they  are  the  Manes  of  men  of  the  third  caste. 

KAYAYYA.  The  son  of  a  Kshatriya  by  a  Xishada  female, 
who  is  related  in  the  Maha-bharata  to  have  risen  by  virtue, 
knowledge,  and  devotion  from  the  state  of  a  Das}ai  to  perfection. 

KEDARE>S'A,  KEDAEA-XATHA.  A  name  of  >S'iva.  :N"ame 
of  one  of  the  twelve  great  Lingas.  It  is  a  shapeless  mass  of 
stone  at  Kedara-natha  in  the  Himalayas.     See  Linga. 

KEKAYA.     See  Kaikeya. 

KELI-KILA     A  demigod  attendant  upon  /S'iva. 

KEXA,  KEXOPANISHAD.  Xame  of  a  Upanishad  (q.v.) 
translated  by  Dr.  Eoer  for  the  Bihllotheca  Indka. 

KEEAKAS.  One-footed  men  who  live  in  forests,  according 
to  the  Maha-bharata. 

KEEALA.  The  country  of  Malabar  proper  on  the  western  coast. 

KE5AYA.  '  Having  much  or  fine  hair.'  A  name  of  Yishwu 
or  Krish?2a. 

KEaSI,  KEaS'IN'.  In  the  Maha-bharata,  a  demon  who  fought 
Avith  and  was  defeated  by  Indra.  In  the  Pura?ias,  a  Daitya  who 
took  the  form  of  a  horse  and  attacked  Krishna,  but  was  killed 
by  that  hero's  thrusting  his  arm  into  his  jaws  and  rending  him 
asunder. 

KE/STNl.  Wife  of  Yi.sravas  and  mother  of  Eavawa ;  also 
called  Kaikasi. 

KE>SI-DH WA JA.  Son  of  Krita-dhwaja.  Kesi-dhwaja  "  was 
endowed  with  spiritual  knowledge,"  and  he  had  a  cousin,  Khaw- 
r?ikya,  who  "was  diligent  in  the  way  of  works  and  was  renowned 
for  religious  rites."     There  was  contention   and  hostilities  'je- 


KETU—KHATWANGA.  157 

tween  tliem,  and  Kha?i(iikya  was  driven  from  his  dominions. 
But  they  subsequently  became  useful  to  each  other  and  friendly. 
Kha?i6?ikya  by  his  practical  religion  enabled  Kesi-dhwaja  to 
make  atonement  for  the  killing  of  a  cow,  and  Kesi-dhwaja 
initiated  Khawc^ikya  in  the  mysteries  of  spiritual  meditation 
i^joga). 

KETU.  The  descending  node  in  astronomy,  represented  by 
a  dragon's  tail ;  also  a  comet  or  meteor,  and  the  ninth  of  the 
planets.  He  is  said  to  be  a  Danava,  and  son  of  Viprachitti  and 
Sinhika.  He  is  also  called  A-kacha,  '  hairless  ;'  Aslesha-bhava, 
'cutoff;'  Mu?2C?a,  'bald.'     /S'e^  Rahu. 

KHAiVDAYA,  KHAA^Z^AYA-PRASTHA.  A  forest  and 
country  on  the  banks  of  the  Yamuna,  which  the  Pa?ic?avas 
received  as  their  moiety  when  Dhr/ta-rash/ra  divided  his  king- 
dom. In  it  they  built  the  city  of  Indra-prastha  and  made  it 
their  capital.  The  forest  was  consumed  with  fire  by  the  god 
Agni  assisted  by  K?ish?za  and  Arjuna. 

KHAYi)IKYA.     &ee  Kesi-dhwaja. 

KHARA.  A  man-eating  Rakshasa,  the  younger  brother  of 
Ravawa.     He  was  killed  by  Rama-chandra. 

KHARYA.     A  dwarf.     Bee  Yalakhilya. 

KHASA.  A  daughter  of  Daksha,  wife  of  Kasyapa,  and 
mother  of  the  Yakshas  and  Rakshasas,  called  after  her  Khasat- 
majas. 

KHA^AS,  KHASAKAS,  KHASlKAS.  An  outlying  or 
border  people  classed  with  the  fS'akas  and  other  northern  tribes. 
Professor  Wilson  thought  that  traces  of  them  might  be  sought 
among  the  barbarous  tribes  on  the  north-east  of  Bengal,  the 
Khasiyas. 

KHAr  WANGA  (also  called  Dilipa).  i.  A  prince  of  the  Solar 
race.  In  a  battle  between  the  gods  and  the  demons  he  rendered 
great  assistance  to  the  former,  who  desired  him  to  ask  a  boon. 
He  begged  that  he  might  know  the  duration  of  his  life,  and  the 
answer  was,  "  Only  an  hour."  He  hastened  to  the  world  of 
mortals,  and  by  earnest  prayer  he  became  united  with  the  sup- 
reme being,  Yish?iu.  "  Like  unto  Kha^wanga  will  there  be  no 
one  upon  earth,  who,  having  come  from  heaven  and  dwelt  an 
hour  amongst  men,  became  united  with  the  three  worlds  by  his 
liberality  and  knowledge  of  truth." — V.  P.  2.  A  club;  the  club 
of  /Siva  ;  it  is  also  called  Khinkhira  and  Pansula. 


158  K'iCHAKA—KIRITIN. 

KlCHAKA.  Brother-in-law  of  the  king  of  Yira/a,  who  was 
commander  of  the  forces  and  general  director  of  the  affairs  of 
the  kingdom.  He  made  love  to  Draupadi,  and  was  slain  by 
Bhima,  who  rolled  his  bones  and  flesh  into  a  ball,  so  that  no  one 
could  tell  how  he  was  killed. 

KIKATA.  A  country  inhabited  by  people  who  were  not 
Aryans  ;  it  is  identified  with  Magadha  or  South  Bihar. 

KILATAKULI  (Kilata  + Akuli.)  Two  priests  of  the  Asuras, 
who,  according  to  the  ^Satapatha  BrahmaTza,  exercised  a  special 
influence  between  Manu  and  aii  "  Asura-slaying  voice," 

KIM-PUEUSHA.  '  A^Hiat  man  V  An  indescribable  man  ; 
one  of  a  low  type,  partaking  of  the  nature  and  appearance  of 
animals.  In  later  times  it  is  synonjinous  with  Kin-nara.  IS'ame 
of  a  region  between  Himavat  and  Hema-ku/a.  (iS'ee  Jambu-d^vlpa.) 
Also  of  a  king  of  the  latter  region. 

KIN-K'AKAS.  'A^Hiat  men?'  Mythical  beings  with  the 
form  of  a  man  and  the  head  of  a  horse.  They  are  celestial 
choristers  and  musicians,  dwelling  in  the  paradise  of  Kuvera  on 
Kailasa.  They  sprang  from  the  toe  of  Brahma  with  the  Yakshas, 
but  according  to  others,  they  are  sons  of  Kasyapa.  They  are 
also  called  Aswa-mukhas  Turanga-vaktras,  '  horse-faced,'  and 
Mayus. 

KIRATAKJU^IYA.  A  poem  descriptive  of  the  combat 
between  iS'iva  in  the  guise  of  a  Kirata  or  mountaineer  and  the 
Paw?u  prince  Arjuna.  The  story  is  first  told  in  the  Maha- 
bharata,  and  has  been  worked  up  in  this  artificial  poem  of 
eighteen  cantos  by  Bharavi.  Part  of  it  has  been  translated  into 
German  by  Schiitz.  There  are  several  editions  of  the  text. 
See  Arjuna. 

KIRATAS.  Foresters  and  mountaineers  living  in  the  moun- 
tains east  of  Hindustan.  (There  is  a  tribe  in  the  Central  Hima- 
layas called  Kirantis.)  They  are  described  in  the  Ramaya?ia  as 
"  islanders,  who  eat  raw  fish,  live  in  the  waters,  and  are  men- 
tigers  "  (men  below  and  tigers  above,  according  to  the  commenta- 
tor). Their  females  are  described  as  "  gold-coloured  and  plea- 
sant to  behold,"  and  as  having  "  sharjD-pointed  hair-knots." 
They  are  perhaps  the  Cirrhadoe  placed  on  the  Coromandel  coast 
by  classic  writers. 

KIRITIISr.  '  Crowned  with  a  diadem.'  A  title  of  Indra 
and  also  of  Arjuna. 


KIRMIRA—KRA  UNCHA.  1 59 

KIKMIRA.  A  monster  Rakshasa,  brother  of  Yaka.  He 
opposed  the  entrance  of  the  Pawc?avas  into  the  Kamvaka  forest, 
and  threatened  that  he  would  eat  Bhima.  A  furious  combat 
ensued,  in  which  Bhima  and  he  hurled  large  trees  at  each  other, 
but  the  demon  was  at  length  strangled  and  had  all  his  bones 
broken  by  Bhima. 

KISHKINDHYA.  A  country  in  the  peninsula,  thought  to 
be  in  the  Mysore,  which  was  taken  by  Rama  from  the  monkey 
king  Ball,  and  given  back  to  his  brother  Su-griva,  the  friend 
and  ally  of  Rama.     The  capital  city  was  Kishkindhya. 

KOHALA.  An  ancient  sage,  to  whom  the  invention  of  the 
drama  is  attributed  ;  also  a  writer  on  music. 

KOSALA.  A  country  on  the  iSarayu  river,  having  Ayodhya 
for  its  capital.  The  name  is  variously  applied  to  other 
countries  in  the  east,  and  in  the  south,  and  in  the  Yindhya 
mountains.  It  probably  widened  with  the  dominions  of  its 
rulers,  and  part  of  Birar  is  called  Dakshina-Kosala,  the  Southern 
Kosala. 

KOrAYl,  KOrARl,  KOrrAYI.  *A  naked  woman.'  A 
mystical  goddess,  the  tutelary  deity  of  the  Daityas,  and  mother 
of  BaTza  the  demon.     The  name  is  sometimes  applied  to  Durga. 

KRAMA-PATHA.     See  Pa^ha. 

KRATU.  One  of  the  Prajapatis,  and  sometimes  reckoned 
among  the  great  itishis  and  mind-bom  sons  of  Brahma.  {See 
i?ishi.)  The  Yish?iu  PuraTia  says  that  his  wife  Samnati  brought 
forth  the  60,000  Yalikhilyas,  pigmy  sages  no  bigger  than  a  joint 
of  the  thumb. 

KRAUjSTCHA.  I .  A  pass  situated  somewhere  in  the  Himalayas, 
said  to  have  been  opened  by  Parasu-rama  with  his  arrows  to 
make  a  passage  from  Kailasa  to  the  southwards.  The  Yayu 
Purawa  attributes  the  splitting  of  the  mountain  to  Karttikeya. 
Indra  and  Karttikej^a  had  a  dispute  about  their  respective 
powers,  and  agreed  to  decide  it  by  running  a  race  round  the 
mountain.  They  disagreed  as  to  the  result,  and  therefore 
appealed  to  the  moimtain,  who  untruly  decided  in  favour  of 
Indra.  "Karttikeya  hurled  his  lance  at  the  mountain  and 
pierced  at  once  it  and  the  demon  Mahisha."  2.  A  confede- 
rate of  the  demon  Taraka,  against  whom  Karttikeya  led  the 
gods  and  triumphed.  3,  One  of  the  seven  Dwipas.  See 
Dwij^a. 


1 6o  KRA  WAD— KRISHNA. 

KEAYYAD.  'A  flesh-eater.'  A  Eaksliasa  or  any  carnivo- 
rous animal  In  the  Yeda,  Agni  is  in  one  place  called  a  Kravyad 
of  terrible  power.  Fire  is  also  a  Kravyad  in  consuming  bodies 
on  the  funeral  pile.     See  Agni 

K-K/PA.  Son  of  the  sage  iS'aradwat,  and  the  adopted  son  of 
King  ^Santanu.  He  became  one  of  the  privy  council  at  Hastina- 
pura,  and  was  one  of  the  tliree  surviving  Kuru  warriors  who 
made  the  murderous  night  attack  upon  the  camp  of  the  Pa?if?avas. 
He  was  also  called  Gautama  and  /Saradwata.  See  K?7'pa  and 
Maha-bharata. 

Ki^/PA,  KT^/PI.  Wife  of  Dro?ia  and  mother  of  Aswattha- 
man.  The  sage  /S'aradwat  or  Gotama  so  alarmed  Indra  by  his 
austerities  that  the  god  sent  a  nymph  to  tempt  him.  Though 
she  was  unsuccessful,  two  children  were  found  born  to  the  sage 
in  a  tuft  of  grass.  King  ^Santanu  found  them  and  brought  them 
up  out  of  compassion  {kripa),  whence  their  names,  Kr/pa  and 
K?'/pa.  The  children  passed  as  iS'antanu's  own.  Dro?2a  was  a 
Erahman  and  /Santanu  a  Kshatriya  :  the  myth  makes  Kripi  a 
Erahma?il,  and  so  accounts  for  her  being  the  wife  of  Dror^a. 
The  Yishmi  Pura?za  represents  them  as  children  of  Satya-dhriti, 
grandson  of  *S'aradwat  by  the  n}Tiiph  Urvasi,  and  as  being  exposed 
in  a  clump  of  long  grass. 

Kit/SHiYA  'Black.'  This  name  occurs  in  the  it/g-veda, 
but  without  any  relation  to  the  great  deity  of  later  times.  The 
earliest  mention  of  Krish?ia,  the  son  of  Devaki,  is  in  the  Clihan- 
dogya  Upanishad,  where  he  appears  as  a  scholar.  There  was  a 
iiishi  of  the  name  who  was  a  son  of  Yi.swaka.  There  was  also 
a  great  Asura  so  named,  who  with  10,000  followers  committed 
fearful  devastation,  until  he  was  defeated  and  skinned  by  Indra. 
In  another  Yedic  hymn,  50,000  K?'ish?2as  are  said  to  have  been 
slain,  and  it  is  added  in  another  that  his  pregnant  wives  were  slain 
with  him  that  he  might  leave  no  posterity.  This  is  supposed 
to  have  reference  to  the  Eakshasas  or  to  the  dark- coloured 
aborigines  of  India. 

The  modern  deity  Krishna  is  the  most  celebrated  hero  of 
Indian  mythology,  and  the  most  popular  of  all  the  deities. 
He  is  said  to  be  the  eighth  Avatara  or  incarnation  of  Yish?m, 
or  rather  a  direct  manifestation  of  Yishwu  himself.  This  hero, 
around  whom  a  vast  mass  of  legend  and  fable  has  been  gathered, 
probably  lived  in  the  Epic  age,  when  the  Hindus  had  not  ad- 


KRISHNA.  i6i 

vanced  far  beyond  their  early  settlements  in  the  north-west.  He 
appears  prominently  in  the  Maha-bharata,  where  his  character 
is  invested  with  a  certain  degree  of  mysticism.  Additions  and 
interpolations  have  raised  him  to  divinity,  and  it  is  in  the 
character  of  the  "  Divine  One  "  that  he  delivered  the  celebrated 
song,  Bhagavad-gita,  a  production  of  comparatively  late  date, 
now  held  to  be  part  of  the  great  epic.  In  this  work  he  dis- 
tinctly declares  himself  to  be  the  Supreme  Being.  He  says  : — 
"  All  this  universe  has  been  created  by  me  ;  all  things  exist  in 
me;"  and  Arjuna  addresses  him  as  "the  supreme  universal 
spirit,  the  supreme  dwelling,  the  eternal  person,  divine,  prior 
to  the  gods,  unborn,  omnipresent."  The  divine  character  of 
Krishna  having  thus  been  established,  it  was  still  further  deve- 
loped in  the  Hari-van5a,  a  later  addition  to  the  Maha-bharata ; 
and  in  the  Purawas,  especially  in  the  Bhagavata  Pura?^a,  it 
attained  full  expansion.  There  the  story  of  the  life  of  Krish?ia, 
from  his  earliest  days,  is  related  with  minute  details,  and  it  is 
upon  this  portion  of  his  life  that  the  popular  mind  delights 
to  dwell.  The  mischievous  pranks  of  the  child,  the  follies  of 
the  boy,  and  the  amours  of  the  youth,  are  the  subjects  of 
boundless  wonder  and  delight.  All  these  stories,  as  told  in  the 
Bhagavata  Pura?za,  have  been  made  accessible  and  popular  by 
the  Hindi  translation  known  by  the  name  Prem  Sagar,  '  ocean 
of  love,'  and  by  other  versions.  Much  of  the  story  of  the  early 
days  of  Krzshwa  is  thus  of  comparatively  modern  invention, 
while  the  incidents  of  his  relations  with  the  Pa^ic^ava  princes  are 
among  the  most  ancient. 

Krishna  was  of  the  Yadava  race,  being  descended  from  Yadu, 
one  of  the  sons  of  Yayati.  The  Yadavas  of  old  were  a  pastoral 
race,  and  dwelt  on  the  river  Yamuna  (Junma),  in  V?'mdavana,  on 
the  western  side,  and  in  Gokula  on  the  other.  In  those  days, 
Kansa,  Eaja  of  the  Bhojas,  having  deposed  his  father,  Ugrasena, 
ruled  in  the  city  of  Mathura,  near  Yrindavana.  Ugrasena  had  a 
brother  named  Devaka,  and  Devaka  had  a  daughter  named  De- 
vaki,  who  married  Vasu-deva,  son  of  ASiira,  also  a  descendant  of  Yadu. 
The  history  of  K?-ish?ia's  birth,  as  given  in  the  Maha-bharata  and 
followed  by  the  Vish?iu  Pura?ia,  is  that  Vish7iu  plucked  out  two  of 
his  own  hairs,  one  white,  the  other  black.  These  two  hairs  entered 
the  wombs  of  Eohim  and  Devaki ;  the  white  hair  became  Bala- 
rama  and  the  black  {krishna)  hair  (/jesa)  became  Krishna,  orKesava. 


i62  KRISHNA. 

His  reputed  father,  Vasu-deva,  was  brother  of  Kunti,  the  wife  of 
PamZu,  and  so  Krishna  was  cousin  of  the  tliree  elder  PantZava  princes. 

The  Maha-bharata  gives  two  summaries  of  his  exploits,  of 
which  the  following  are  abridgments  : — "  ^^^lile  K?*/shwa  was 
growing  up  as  a  high-souled  boy  in  the  tribe  of  cowherds,  the 
force  of  his  arms  was  rendered  famous  by  him  in  the  three 
worlds."  He  slew  the  king  of  the  Hayas  (horses),  dwelling  in  the 
woods  of  the  Yamuna.  He  slew  the  direful  Danava,  who  bore 
the  form  of  a  bulL  He  also  slew  Pralambha,  Naraka,  Jambha, 
and  Pitlia,  the  great  Asura,  and  Muru.  He  overthrew  ami 
slew  Kansa,  who  was  supported  by  Jara-sandha.  With  the  help  of 
Bala-rama  he  defeated  and  destroyed  Su-naman,  brother  of  Kan^a 
and  king  of  the  -S'iirasenas.  He  carried  off  the  daughter  of  the 
king  of  the  Gandharas  at  a  swayam-vara,  and  princes  were  yoked 
to  his  car.  He  secured  the  death  of  Jara-sandha  and  slew  ^Si-su- 
jjala.  He  overthrew  Saubha,  the  self-suj^porting  or  flying  city 
of  the  Daityas,  on  the  shore  of  the  ocean.  He  conquered  the 
Anitas  and  Bangas,  and  numerous  other  tribes.  Entering  the 
ocean  filled  with  marine  monsters,  he  overcame  Yaru/ia.  In 
Patala  he  slew  Panchajana,  and  obtained  the  divine  shell  Pan- 
chajanya.  With  Arjuna  he  propitiated  Agni  in  the  Ivha?^c?ava 
forest,  and  obtained  the  fiery  weapon  the  discus.  Mounted  on 
Garut/a,  he  alarmed  AmaravatI,  the  city  of  Indra,  and  brought 
away  the  Piirijata  tree  from  thence. 

In  another  passage,  Arjuna  rehearses  some  of  K7'/sh7ia's  ex- 
ploits. He  destroyed  the  Bhoja  kings  in  battle,  and  carried 
off  Rukmiwi  for  his  bride.  He  destroyed  the  Gandharas,  van- 
quished the  sons  of  Nagnajit,  and  released  King  Su-darsana, 
whom  they  had  bound.  He  slew  Paw6?ya  with  the  fragment  of 
a  door,  and  crushed  the  Kalingas  in  Dantakfira.  Through  him 
the  burnt  city  of  Benares  was  restored.  He  killed  Ekalavya, 
king  of  the  Nishadas,  and  the  demon  Jambha.  With  the  aid  of 
Bala-rama  he  killed  Su-naman,  the  wicked  son  of  Ugrasena,  and 
restored  the  kingdom  to  the  latter.  He  conquered  the  flying 
city  of  Saubha  and  the  king  of  the  /S'alwas,  and  there  he 
obtained  the  fiery  weapon  5ata-glini.  jS^araka,  son  of  the  earth, 
had  carried  off  the  beautiful  jeweUed  earrings  of  Aditi  to 
Prag-jyotisha,  the  impregnable  castle  of  the  Asuras.  The  gods, 
headed  by  Indra,  were  unable  to  prevail  against  ISTaraka,  so 
tliey  appointed  Kr/slma  to   slay  him.     Accordingly  he  killed 


KRISHNA.  163 

Muru  and  the  Eiiksliasa  Ogha ;  and  finally  lie  slew  Xaraka  and 
brought  back  the  earrings. 

It  further  appears  in  different  parts  of  the  Maha-bharata  that 
K?'ish?ia,  prince  of  Dwaraka,  was  present  at  the  swayam-vara  of 
Draupadi,  and  gave  his  judgment  that  she  had  been  fairly  won 
by  Arjuna.  While  the  PaWfiavas  were  reigning  at  Indra-prastha, 
he  paid  them  a  visit,  and  went  out  hunting  with  them  in  the 
'KhmddiYdi  forest.  There  he  and  Arjuna  allied  themselves  with 
Agni,  who  was  desirous  of  burninoj  the  Kha?ic?ava  forest,  but 
was  prevented  by  Indra.  Agni  having  secured  the  help  of 
K?'ish?ia  and  Arjuna,  he  gave  the  former  the  celebrated  chakra 
(discus)  Vajra-nabha,  and  the  club  Kaumodakl.  Then  Indra 
was  defeated  and  Agni  burnt  the  forest.  Arjuna  afterwards 
visited  K77sh'fta  at  Dwaraka,  and  was  received  with  great 
demonstrations  of  joy.  Arjuna,  with  the  connivance  of  Knsh?ia, 
eloped  with  Su-bhadra,  Iv7'ish7za's  sister,  much  to  the  annoyance 
of  Bala-rama,  her  elder  brother.  When  Yudhi-sh/hira  was 
desirous  of  performing  the  Raja-siiya  sacrifice,  Krishwa  told 
him  that  he  must  first  conquer  Jara-sandha,  king  of  Magadha. 
Jara-sandha  was  attacked  and  slain,  and  K?'ish?ia  was  thus 
revenged  upon  the  enemy  who  had  forced  him  to  leave  Mathura 
and  emigrate  to  Dwaraka.  KWsh?ia  attended  the  Raja-siiya 
sacrifice  performed  by  Yudlii-sh^hira,  and  there  he  met  /Sisu-pala, 
whose  betrothed  wife  he  had  carried  off.  /S'isu-pala  reviled  him 
and  acted  very  violently,  so  Kr/sh?za  cast  his  discus  and  cut  off  his 
enemy's  head.  He  was  present  at  the  gambling  match  between 
Yudhi-sh/hira  and  the  Kauravas.  ^\Tien  Draupadi  had  been 
staked  and  lost,  she  was  dragged  into  the  public  hall  by  DuA- 
5asana,  who  tore  off  her  clothes,  but  KrishTia  pitied  her,  and 
renewed  her  clothes  as  fast  as  they  were  torn  away.  After  the 
close  of  the  exile  of  the  Pa?2^avas,  K?'/shwa  was  present,  and  took 
part  in  the  council  which  preceded  the  great  war,  and  strongly 
advised  a  peaceful  settlement.  Then  he  returned  to  Dwaraka. 
Thither  Arjuna  and  Dur-yodliana  followed  him  with  the  object  of 
enlisting  his  services  in  the  coming  w^ar,  but  he  refused  to  take 
any  active  part  because  he  was  related  to  both  parties.  He 
gave  them  the  choice  of  his  personal  attendance  or  of  the  use 
of  his  army.  Arjuna,  who  had  arrived  first,  and  therefore  had 
the  first  choice,  asked  for  Kr/sh?2a  himself,  and  Dur-yodhana 
joyfuUy  accepted  the  army.     K^ishwa  then  became  the  charioteer 


1 64  KRISHNA, 

of  Arjima.  After  this,  at  the  request  of  the  PawtZavas,  he  went 
in  splendid  state  to  Hastina-pnra  as  a  mediator,  but  his  efforts 
were  unavailing,  and  he  returned.  Preparations  for  action  were 
then  made  and  the  forces  drawn  out.  On  the  eve. of  the  battle, 
while  acting  as  Arjuna's  charioteer,  he  is  represented  as  relating 
to  Arjuna  the  Bhagavad-gita  or  divine  song.  He  rendered 
valuable  services  to  Arjuna  throughout  the  battle,  but  on  two 
occasions  he  suggested  unfair  dealing.  He  prompted  the  lie  by 
which  Yudhi-shiShira  broke  down  the  prowess  of  Dro72a,  and  he 
suggested  the  foul  blow  by  which  Bhima  shattered  the  thigh  of 
Dur-yodhana.  He  afterwards  went  to  Hastina-pura  with  the 
conquerors,  and  he  also  attended  their  Aswa-medha  sacrifice. 
On  returning  to  Dwaraka  he  issued  a  proclamation  forbidding 
the  use  of  wine.  Portents  and  fearful  signs  appeared,  and  a 
general  feehng  of  alarm  spread  among  all  in  Dwaraka.  K?'/sh??a 
gave  directions  that  the  inhabitants  should  go  out  to  Prabhasa 
on  the  sea-shore  and  endeavour  to  propitiate  the  deity.  He 
gave  permission  also  that  wine  might  be  drunk  for  one  day. 
A  drunken  brawl  followed,  in  which  his  son  Pradyumna  was 
killed  in  his  presence,  and  nearly  all  the  chiefs  of  the  Yadavas 
were  slain.  Bala-rama  went  out  from  the  fray  and  died  peace- 
fully under  a  tree,  and  K?'ishwa  himself  was  killed  unintention- 
ally by  a  hunter  named  Jaras,  who  shot  him  with  an  arrow, 
mistaking  him  at  a  distance  for  a  deer.  Arjuna  proceeded  to 
Dwaraka  and  performed  the  obsequies  of  Krish^ia.  A  few 
days  afterwards  the  city  was  swallowed  up  by  the  sea.  Five 
of  K^'ishwa's  widows  were  subsequently  burnt  upon  a  funeral 
pile  in  the  plain  of  Kuru-kshetra. 

"  Among  the  texts  of  the  Maha-bharata,"  says  Dr.  ]\Iuir, 
"  there  are  some  in  which  K?'ish?za  is  distinctly  subordinated  to 
Maha-deva  (*Siva),  of  whom  he  is  exliibited  as  a  worshipper,  and 
from  whom,  as  well  as  from  his  wife  Uma,  he  is  stated  to  have 
received  a  variety  of  boons.  Even  in  these  passages,  however, 
a  superhuman  character  is  ascribed  to  K?*isli?2a." 

The  popular  history  of  Krishwa,  especially  of  his  childhood 
and  youth,  is  given  in  the  PuraTias,  and  is  the  subject  of  many 
a  story.  The  Bhagavata  Purawa  is  the  great  authority,  and  from 
that  the  following  account  is  condensed  : — 

The  sage  Narada  had  foretold  to  Kan^a  that  a  son  of  Devaki, 
his  brother's  daughter,  should  destroy  him  and  overthrow  his 


KRISHNA.  165 

kingdom.  To  obviate  this  danger,  Kan^a  kept  his  cousin  Devaki 
confined  in  his  own  palace,  and  six  children  that  she  bore  he 
caused  to  be  put  to  death.  She  conceived  a  seventh  time,  but 
the  child  was  an  incarnation  of  Vish/m,  and  was  miraculously 
preserved  by  being  transferred  from  the  womb  of  Devaki  to  that 
of  Rohi?iI,  Avho  was  Yasu-deva's  second  wife.  This  child  was 
Bala-rama.  Devaki  again  conceived,  and  her  eighth  child  was 
born  at  midnight  with  a  very  dark  skin,  whence  he  was  called 
Kr/sli?ia.  He  had  a  peculiar  curl  of  hair,  called  sri-vatsa,  upon 
his  breast.  The  gods  interposed  to  preserve  the  life  of  this 
divinely  begotten  child.  The  guards  of  the  palace  were  over- 
powered with  sleep,  and  bolts  and  barriers  were  removed.  Vasu- 
deva  took  up  the  child  and  escaped  with  him  from  Mathura. 
He  repaired  to  the  bank  of  the  Yamuna  (Jumna),  and,  crossing 
the  river,  went  to  the  house  of  IsTanda,  a  cowherd,  whose  wife, 
Yasoda,  had  on  that  very  night  been  delivered  of  a  female  child. 
Yasu-deva  secretly  changed  the  infants,  and  carried  back  the 
daughter  of  Yasoda  to  his  wife  DevakL  Kansa  discovered  that 
he  had  been  cheated,  and  in  his  wrath  he  ordered  that  every 
male  infant  that  gave  signs  of  vigour  should  be  put  to  death. 
Yasu-deva  and  Devaki,  being  no  longer  dangerous,  were  set  at 
liberty.  Nanda,  alarmed  by  the  order  for  the  massacre,  took  the 
young  child  and  removed  with  Yasoda  and  with  Rohim  and 
Bala-rama  to  Gokula.  Here  KrfshTia  was  brought  up,  and  wan- 
dered about  in  company  of  his  elder  brother  Bala-rama.  They 
played  many  pranks  and  passed  many  practical  jokes  ;  but  they 
exhibited  such  marvellous  strength  and  such  godlike  powers 
that  they  soon  became  famous.  Kansa  was  continually  forming 
schemes  for  the  death  of  Iv?'/shwa.  The  female  demon  Piitana 
assumed  a  lovely  form,  and  tried  to  kill  him  by  suckling  him, 
but  the  child  sucked  away  her  life.  Another  demon  tried  to 
drive  a  cart  over  him,  but  he  dashed  the  cart  to  pieces.  A 
demon  named  Tri?iavartta  took  the  form  of  a  whirlwind  and 
flew  off  with  him,  but  the  child  brought  the  demon  to  the 
ground  with  such  violence  that  he  died.  One  day  K?7'sh?ia 
broke  the  vessels  of  milk  and  curds  and  ate  the  butter,  which 
made  Yasoda  angr}^  She  fastened  a  rope  round  his  body,  and 
tied  him  to  a  large  bowl,  but  he  dragged  the  bowl  away  till  it 
caught  between  two  trees  and  uprooted  them.  From  this  feat 
he  got  the  name  of  Damodara  (rope-belly).     He  had  a  terrible 


1 66  KRISHNA. 

conflict  with  the  great  serpent  Kaliya,  who  lived  in  the  Yamuna, 
and  he  compelled  him  to  go  away.  On  one  occasion,  when  the  gopls 
or  milkmaids  were  bathing,  he  took  away  all  their  clothes  and 
climbed  up  a  tree,  and  there  he  remained  till  the  damsels  came 
to  him  naked  to  recover  them.  He  persuaded  I^anda  and  the 
cowherds  to  give  up  the  worship  of  Indra,  and  to  worship  the 
mountain  Govardhana,  which  sheltered  them  and  their  cattle. 
Incensed  at  the  loss  of  his  offerings,  Indra  poured  down  a  heavy 
rain,  which  would  have  deluged  them,  but  K?'ish?ia  Hfted  up  the 
mountain  Govardhana,  and  held  it  upon  his  finger  as  a  shelter 
for  seven  days  and  nights,  till  Indra  felt  that  he  was  foiled. 
From  this  feat  he  obtained  the  name  of  Govardhana-dhara  and 
Tungisa.  As  he  had  protected  the  kine,  Indra  expressed  his 
satisfaction,  and  gave  him  the  title  of  Upendra.  He  was  now 
approaching  manhood,  and  was  very  handsome.  The  gopis  were 
all  enamoured  of  him,  and  he  dispensed  his  favours  very  freely. 
He  married  seven  or  eight  of  them,  but  his  first  and  favourite 
Avife  was  Radlia.  At  this  period  of  his  Hfe  he  is  represented 
with  flowing  hair  and  with  a  flute  in  his  hand.  One  of  his 
favourite  pastimes  was  a  round  dance,  called  MawcMa-nr^'tya  or 
Kasa-maw/ala,  in  which  he  and  Eadha  formed  the  centre  Avhilst 
the  gopls  danced  round  them.  But  his  happiness  was  inter- 
rupted by  the  machinations  of  Kansa,  who  sent  formidable 
demons  to  destroy  him — Arish/a  in  the  form  of  a  bull,  and 
Kesin  in  the  form  of  a  horse.  These  attempts  having  failed, 
Kansa  sent  his  messenger,  Akriira,  to  invite  K?'«sh?za  and  Bala- 
rama  to  Mathura  to  attend  some  games,  and  he  formed  several 
plans  for  their  destruction.  They  accepted  the  invitation,  and 
went  to  Mathura.  Near  the  city  they  found  Kansa's  washer- 
man engaged  in  his  calling.  They  threw  down  some  of  his 
clothes,  and  he  addressed  them  insolently,  upon  which  they  killed 
him,  and  took  such  clothes  as  they  liked.  In  his  progress  he  met 
Kubjii,  a  crooked  damsel,  who  gave  him  some  unguent,  and  he 
repaid  her  gift  by  making  her  straight.  In  the  games  he  killed 
Chawura,  the  king's  boxer.  Afterwards  he  killed  Kansa  himself, 
and  replaced  TJgrasena  on  the  throne.  He  remained  in  Mathura, 
and  studied  the  science  of  arms  under  Sandipani.  He  went 
down  to  the  infernal  regions  and  brought  back  his  six  brothers, 
whom  Kansa  had  killed,  and  these,  having  tasted  the  milk  of 
their  motlier,  ascended  to  heaven.     During  this  period  he  killed 


KRISHNA.  167 

a  demon  named  Pancliajana,  ^vho  had  attacked  the  son  of  his 
teacher.  Tliis  demon  lived  in  the  sea  in  the  form  of  a  conch- 
shell,  and  KrisliTia  afterwards  used  this  shell,  called  Pancha- 
janya,  as  a  trumpet.  Kansa's  two  wives  were  daughters  of 
Jara-sandha,  king  of  Magadha.  This  king  assembled  his  forces 
and  marched  against  Mathura  to  chastise  Krishna,  but  he  was 
defeated.  He  renew^ed  his  attacks  eighteen  times,  and  was  as 
often  defeated.  A  new  enemy  then  threatened  K^'ishwa,  a 
Yavana  or  foreigner  named  Kala-yavana,  and  Krzsh?2a  had  been 
so  weakened  that  he  knew  he  must  succumb  either  to  him  or  to 
his  old  enemy  the  king  of  Magadlia,  so  he  and  all  his  people 
migrated  to  the  coast  of  Guzerat,  where  he  built  and  fortified 
the  city  of  Dwaraka.  [The  Maha-bharata  makes  no  mention 
of  this  foreign  king,  and  says  that  Knshwa  retired  before  the 
eighteenth  attack  of  Jara-sandlia.  The  foreign  king  would, 
therefore,  seem  to  be  an  invention  of  the  Pura?zas  for  saving 
K?'ish?za's  reputation.] 

After  his   settlement  at  Dwaraka,  Krishna   carried  off  and 
married  Eukmi?2i,  daughter  of  the  Raja  of  Yidarbha,  and  the 
betrothed  of  ^S'isu-prda.     An  incident  now  occurred  wdiich  brought 
him  two  more  wives.     A  Yadava  chief  named  Satrajit  had  a 
beautiful   gem  called    Syamantaka,  which  Kr^sh?^  wished  to* 
possess.     Satrajit,  for  the  sake  of  security,  gave  the  gem  into 
the  charge  of  his  brother  Prasena,  and  Prasena  was  killed  in  the 
forest  by  a  lion,  who  carried  off  the  jewel  in  his  mouth.     This 
lion  w^as  killed  by  Jambavat,  the  king  of  the  bears.     Satrajit 
suspected  K?'*sh7ia  of  taking  the  jewel,  and  he,  to  clear  himself, 
went  out  into  the  forest,  ascertained  the  manner  of  Prasena's 
death,  fought  with  Jambavat,  and  recovered  the  jewel.     KrishTza 
then  married  Jambavati,  the  daughter  of  Jambavat,  and  Satya- 
bhama,  the  daughter  of  Satrajit.     But  the  number  of  his  wives 
Avas  practically  unlimited,  for  he  had  16,000  and  a  hundred  or 
so  besides,  and  he  had  180,000  sons.     By  Rukmim  he  had  a  son 
Pradyumna  and  a  daughter  CharumatT.     His  son  by  Jambavati 
was  /S'amba,  and  by  Satya-bhama  he  had  ten  sons.     Indra  came 
to  visit  Krishwa  at  Dwaraka,  and  implored  him  to  suppress  the 
evil  deeds  of  the  demon  Naraka.     Knsh?za  accordingly  went  to 
the  city  of  Naraka,  killed  the  demon  Muru,  who  guarded  the 
city,  and  then  destroyed  Naraka  himself.     Iv?i'sh?2a  next  went 
to  pay  a  visit  to  Indra  in  Swarga,  taking  with  him  his  wife 


1 68  KRISHNA  —KRITA  -  VI R  YA. 

►Satya-bhama.  At  her  request  he  requited  the  hospitality  shown 
him  by  carrying  off  the  famed  Parijata  tree,  which  was  produced 
at  the  churning  of  the  ocean.  The  tree  belonged  to  ^S'achi,  wife 
of  Indra,  and  she  complained  to  her  husband.  Indra  drew  out 
his  forces  and  tried  to  recover  it,  but  was  defeated  by  Krfshwa. 
Pradyumna,  son  of  Kr/shTia,  had  a  son  named  Aniruddha,  with 
whom  a  female  Daitya,  Usha,  daughter  of  Bawa,  fell  in  love. 
She  induced  a  companion  to  carry  off  the  young  man,  and 
Krishna,  Bala-rama,  and  Pradyumna  went  to  rescue  him.  Bawa, 
with  the  whole  Daitya  host,  and  assisted  by  ^S'iva  and  Skanda, 
the  god  of  war,  encountered  them.  K?'ish?za,  "  with  the  weapon 
of  yawning,  set  >S'iva  agape,"  and  so  overpowered  hiim  Skanda 
was  wounded.  Ba?ia  maintained  a  fierce  combat  with  Krzshwa, 
and  was  severely  wounded,  but  Krishwa  spared  his  life  at  the 
intercession  of  *S^iva,  and  Aniruddha  was  released. 

There  was  a  man  named  PauTif^raka,  who  was  a  Vasu-deva,  or 
descendant  of  one  Vasu-deva.  Upon  the  strength  of  the  identity 
of  this  name  with  that  of  Vasu-deva,  the  father  of  Krishna,  this 
man  Pau7?c?raka  assumed  the  insignia  and  title  of  K?*isliwa,  and  he 
had  the  king  of  Kasi  or  Benares  for  an  ally.  KrishTza  slew  PauTi- 
c?raka,  and  he  hurled  his  flaming  discus  at  Benares  and  destroyed 
that  city.  Such  are  the  principal  incidents  of  the  life  of  Knshwa 
as  given  in  the  Hari-vani^a,  the  Pura?ias,  and  the  Prem  Sagar. 

Similarity  in  the  sound  of  the  name,  and  some  incidents  in 
the  life  of  Krishria,  have  led  some  to  believe  that  the  legend  of 
Krishna  had  its  origin  in  the  life  of  Christ,  but  this  is  not  the 
general  opinioiL 

Krishna  has  many  appellations  derived  from  his  family  rela- 
tions, his  exploits,  and  personal  characteristics  ;  and  there  are 
many  which  apply  both  to  the  full  deity,  Vishnu,  and  his  incar- 
nation, Krishna. 

Ki?/SHiVA.     The  personal  name  of  DraupadL 

Ki^/SHNA  DWAIPAYANA.     See  Vyasa. 

K7?/TANTA.     A  name  of  Yama,  the  god  of  deatli. 

K/t/TA-VARMAN.  A  Kuru  warrior,  one  of  the  last  sur- 
viving three  who  made  the  murderous  night  attack  upon  the 
camp  of  the  Pan^avas.  {See  Maha-bhilrata.)  He  was  killed  in 
a  drunken  brawl  at  Dwaraka.     He  was  also  called  Bhoja. 

K7?/TA-VlRYA.  Son  of  Dhanaka  and  father  of  the 
Arjuua  who   is  better  know  by    his  patronymic    Karta-virya. 


KRITA    YUGA—KULA-PARVATAS,  169 

K?'ita-virya  was  a  great  patron  of  the  Blingus,  and  according 
to  the  Purawas,  "he  ruled  over  the  whole  earth  with  might 
and  justice,  and  offered  10,000  sacrifices.  Of  him  this  verse 
is  still  recited,  '  The  kings  of  the  earth  will  assuredly  never 
pursue  his  steps  in  sacrifice,  in  munificence,  in  devotion,  in 
courtesy,  and  in  self-control.'  " 

Ki^/TA  YUGA.  The  first  age  of  the  world,  a  period  of 
1,728,000  years.     See  Yuga. 

Ki^/TTIKAS.  The  Pleiades.  The  six  nurses  of  Karttikeya, 
the  god  of  war.  They  were  daughters  of  a  king  according  to 
one  legend,  wives  of  i^ishis  according  to  another. 

KKIYA-YOGA-SAEA.  A  portion  of  the  Padma  Purawa 
treating  of  rites  and  ceremonies.     Bee  Padma  Pura^za. 

KEODHA,  KRODHA-YAS'A.  One  of  the  many  daughters 
of  Daksha  and  sister-wives  of  Kasyapa.  She  was  the  mother 
"of  all  sharp-toothed  monsters,  whether  on  the  earth,  amongst 
the  birds,  or  in  the  waters,  that  were  devourers  of  flesh.'' 

KSHAiVADA-CHARA  'Night  walkers.'  Ghosts  of  evil 
character,  gobhns,  Rakshasas. 

KSHAPAiVAKA.  An  author  who  was  one  of  "  the  nine 
gems  "  at  the  court  of  Yikramaditya.     See  Nava-ratna. 

KSHATRIYA.  The  second  or  regal  and  warrior  caste. 
See  Yarna. 

KSHATTRI.  A  name  by  which  Yidura  was  familiarly 
called.  The  term,  as  explained  in  Manu,  means  the  son  of  a 
*Sudra  father  and  Brahman  mother,  but  Yidura's  father  was  a 
Brahman  and  his  mother  a  slave  girL 

KSHEMAKA  Son  of  Nira-mitra  or  Nimi,  and  the  last 
prince  of  the  Lunar  race.  There  is  a  memorial  verse  quoted  in 
the  YishTiu  Pura?ia  which  say,  "  The  race  which  gave  origin 
to  Brahmans  and  Kshatriyas,  and  which  was  purified  by  regal 
sages,  terminated  with  Kshemaka  in  the  Kali  age." 

KSHEMA-YJ?/DDHL  A  general  of  the  iS'alwas  who  had 
a  command  in  the  army  which  attacked  Dwaraka,  and  was 
defeated  by  K?'ish7ia's  son,  iSamba. 

KULA-PARYATAS.  'Family  mountains.'  A  series  or  sys- 
tem of  seven  chains  of  mountains  in  Southern  India.  They  are 
Mahendra,  ]Malaya,  Sahya,  iS'uktimat,  i^iksha  (for  which  Gan- 
dlia-madana  is  sometimes  substituted),  Yindhya  and  Paripatra. 
Mahendra  is  the  Orissa  chain ;  Malaj'a,   the  hills  of  Malabar 


1 70  KULIKA—KUMBHA-KARNA. 

proper,  the  soutli  part  of  the  AVestern  Ghats ;  Sahya,  the 
northern  parts  of  the  Western  Ghats ;  ASuktimat  is  doubtful ; 
^iksha,  the  mountains  of  Gondwana ;  Yindhya  is  here  apphed 
to  the  eastern  di^dsion  of  the  Yindhya  mountains ;  and  Paripatra, 
or  Piiriyatra  as  it  is  frequently  written,  applies  to  the  northern 
and  western  portions  of  the  same  range.  The  classification  seems 
to  have  been  known  to  Ptolemy,  for  he  specifies  seven  ranges  of 
mountains,  but  liis  names  are  not  in  accord. 

KULIKA.  One  of  the  eight  serpent  kings,  described  as 
of  a  dusky  brown  colour  and  having  a  half-moon  on  his  head, 

KULIXDAS.     A  people  living  in  the  north-west. 

KULLUKA  -  BHAITA.  The  famous  commentator  on 
Manu,  whose  gloss  Avas  used  by  Sir  W.  Jones  in  making  the 
translation  of  Manu. 

KUMARA.  A  name  of  Skanda,  god  of  war.  In  the  Brah- 
mawas  the  term  is  applied  to  Agni. 

KUMARAS.  Mind-born  sons  of  Brahma,  who,  declining  to 
create  progeny,  remained  ever  boys  and  ever  pure  and  innocent. 
There  were  four  of  them,  Sanat-kumara,  Sananda,  Sanaka,  and 
Sanatana ;  a  fifth,  ^ibhu,  is  sometimes  added.  8ee  Yishwu 
PuraTza. 

KUMARA-SAMBHAYA.  '  The  bii^th  of  the  war  god  (Ku- 
mara).'  A  poem  by  Kali-dasa.  The  complete  work  consists  of 
sixteen  cantos,  but  only  seven  are  usually  given,  and  these  have 
been  translated  into  Latin  by  Stenzler.  Parts  have  been  ren- 
dered into  English  verse  by  Griffiths.  There  are  several  editions 
of  the  text. 

KUMARI.  'The  damsel.'  An  epithet  of  /SitS,  also  of 
Durga.     Cape  Comorin. 

KUMARILA-BHArrA,  KUMARILA-SWAMI.  A  cele- 
])rated  teacher  of  the  Mimansa  philosophy  and  opponent  of  the 
Buddhists,  whom  he  is  said  to  have  extirpated  by  argument  and 
by  force.  He  was  prior  to  iSankaracharya,  in  whose  presence  he 
is  recorded  to  have  burnt  himself. 

KUMBHA-KARA^A.  Son  of  Yisravas  by  his  Rakshasa  wife 
KesinI,  and  full  brother  of  Ravawa.  A  monster  who,  under  the 
curse  of  Brahma  (or,  as  otherwise  represented,  as  a  boon),  slept 
for  six  months  at  a  time  and  remained  awake  for  only  a  single 
day.  When  Ravana  was  hard  pressed  by  Rama  he  sent  to 
arouse  Kumbha-kar?ia.     This  was  effected  with  great  difficulty, 


KUMUDA—KUNTI.  171 

After  drinking  2000  jars  of  liquor  lie  went  to  consult  with  liis 
brother,  and  then  took  the  field  against  the  monkey  army.  He 
beat  down  Su-griva,  the  monkey  chief,  with  a  large  stone,  and 
carried  him  a  prisoner  into  the  city  of  Lanka.  When  he 
returned  to  the  battle  he  encountered  Rama,  and  after  a  stout 
fight  he  Avas  defeated,  and  Rama  cut  off  his  head. 

KUMUDA.  'A  lotus,'  A  Naga  or  serpent  king  whose 
sister,  Kumudvati,  married  Ivusa,  son  of  Rama. 

KUMUDYATI.  A  Kaga  or  serpent  princess  whose  mar- 
riage to  Ku5a,  son  of  Rama,  is  described  in  the  Raghu-vansa, 

KUiV"i)INA-PURA.  The  capital  of  Yidarbha.  It  survives 
as  the  modern  Kundapur,  situated  about  40  miles  east  of  Ama- 
ravati,  in  Birar. 

KU]S[TALA.  A  country  in  the  Dakhin,  about  Adoni ;  the 
Dakhin. 

KUNTl  (also  called  Pnthaand  Parshwi).  i.  Daughter  of  the 
Yadava  prince  fSiira,  king  of  the  >S'iirasenas,  whose  capital  was 
Mathura  on  the  Yamuna.  She  was  sister  of  Yasu-deva,  and  was 
given  by  her  father  to  his  childless  cousin  Kunti-bhoja,  by  whom 
she  was  brought  up.  In  her  maidenhood  she  showed  such 
respectful  devotion  to  the  sage  Dur-vasas,  that  he  gave  her  a 
charm  by  means  of  which  she  might  have  a  child  by  any  god 
she  pleased  to  invoke.  She  called  upon  the  sun,  and  by  him 
had  a  son  named  KarTia,  but  without  any  detriment  to  her  vir- 
ginity ;  stiU,  to  keep  the  affair  secret,  the  child  was  exposed  on 
the  banks  of  the  Yamuna.  Subsequently  she  married  Pawc/u, 
whom  she  chose  at  a  swayam-vara,  and  bore  three  sons,  Yudhi- 
sh/hira,  Bhima,  and  Arjuna,  who  were  called  Pa?2(iavas  although 
they  were  said  to  be  the  sons  of  the  gods  Dharma,  Yayu,  and 
Indra  respectively.  This  may  have  happened,  as  is  stated,  from 
the  potency  of  the  old  charm,  but  if  so,  it  is  strange  that  MadrT, 
the  second  wife  of  Paw6?u,  should  have  enjoyed  the  same  privilege, 
and  have  borne  twin  children  to  the  Aswins.  This  difficulty, 
however,  is  got  over  by  a  statement  that  KuntI  imparted  to  her 
the  charm.  Kunti  was  a  discreet  and  devoted  mother,  and 
although  rather  jealous  of  Madri,  she  was  a  kind  mother  to  her 
children  after  Madri  was  burnt  on  her  husband's  pyre.  After 
the  end  of  the  great  war  she  retired  into  the  forest  with  Dhnta- 
rash^ra  and  his  wife  Gandhari,  and  there  they  all  perished  in 
a  forest  fire.      2.  Name  of  a  people  and  country  in  Upper  India. 


172  KUNTI-BHOJA—KUSAMBA . 

KUXTI-BHOJA.  King  of  tlie  people  caUed  Kimtis.  The 
adoptive  father  of  KimtL 

KURMA-AYATAE.     The  tortoise  incarnation.    See  Avatara. 

KUPaiA  PURAiVA.  "  That  in  which  Janardana  (Vishwu), 
in  the  form  of  a  tortoise,  in  the  regions  under  the  earth,  ex- 
plained the  objects  of  life — duty,  wealth,  pleasure,  and  libera- 
tion,— in  communication  with  Indra-dyumna  and  the  jRishis  in 
the  proximity  of  ^Sakra,  which  refers  to  the  Lakshmi  Kalpa, 
and  contains  17,000  stanzas,  is  the  Kiirma  Pura/ia."  The 
account  which  the  Pura?ia  gives  of  itself  and  its  actual  con- 
tents do  not  agree  with  this  description.  "  The  name  being 
that  of  an  Avatara  of  Yish?iu,  might  lead  us  to  expect  a  Yaish- 
?iava  work;  but  it  is  always  and  correctly  classed  with  the 
/Saiva  PuraTzas,  the  greater  portion  of  it  inculcating  the  worship 
of  A^iva  and  Durga.  The  date  of  this  PuraTia  cannot  be  very 
remote. " —  Wilson. 

KURU.  A  prince  of  the  Lunar  race,  son  of  Samvarana  by 
Tapati,  a  daughter  of  the  sun.  He  ruled  in  the  north-west  of 
India  over  the  country  about  Dellii.  A  people  called  Kurus, 
and  dwelling  about  Kuru-kshetra  in  that  part  of  India,  are  con- 
nected with  him.  He  was  ancestor  both  of  Dhrita-rashte  and 
Vmdw,  but  the  patronymic  Kaurava  is  generally  applied  to  the 
sons  of  the  former. 

KURU-JAK'GALA.  A  forest  country  in  the  upper  part  of 
the  Doab. 

KURU-KSHETRA.  'The  field  of  the  Kurus.'  A  plain 
near  Dellii  where  the  great  battle  between  the  Kauravas  and 
Pawcfavas  was  fought.  It  lies  south-east  of  Thanesar,  not  far 
from  Panipat,  the  scene  of  many  battles  in  later  days. 

KU/SA.  One  of  the  twin  sons  of  Rama  and  Slta.  After  the 
death  of  Rama,  his  two  sons  Kusa  and  Lava  became  kings  of 
the  Southern  and  IS'orthern  Kosalas,  and  Kui'a  built  Kusa-sthall 
or  KusavatI  in  the  Yindhyas,  and  made  it  his  capital.     See  Rama. 

KU6'A-DHWAJA.  A  brother  of  Janaka,  king  of  INIithila, 
and  consequently  uncle  of  Sita.  His  two  daughters,  MawJavi 
and  /Sruta-kirtti,  were  married  to  Bharata  and  iS'atru-ghna,  the 
sons  of  Janaka.  Some  make  him  king  of  Sankrusya,  and  others 
king  of  Kasi,  and  there  are  differences  also  as  to  his  genealogy. 

KU>SAMBA.  Son  of  Kusa  and  a  descendant  of  Puriiravas. 
He  engaged  in  devout  penance  to  obtain  a  son  equal  to  Indra, 


KUSA-STHALI—KUVERA.  173 

and  that  god  was  so  alarmed  at  his  austerities,  that  he  himself 
became  incarnate  as  Gadlii,  son  of  Kusamba. 

KU/S'A-STHALI.  i.  A  city  identical  with  or  standing  on  the 
same  spot  as  Dwaraka.  It  was  built  by  Raivata,  and  was  the 
capital  of  his  kingdom  called  Anarta.  When  Raivata  went  on 
a  visit  to  the  region  of  Erahmii,  his  city  was  destroyed  by 
PuTiya-janas,  i.e.,  Yakshas  or  Rakshasas.  2.  A  city  built  by  Kusa, 
son  of  Rama,  on  the  brow  of  the  Vindhyas.  It  was  the  capital 
of  Southern  Kosala.     Also  called  Kusa-vati. 

KU/SA-YATl.  The  capital  of  Southern  Kosala,  built  upon 
the  Vindhyas  by  Kusa,  son  of  Rama. 

KUSHMAiVDAS.  'Gourds.'  A  class  of  demigods  or  de- 
mons in  the  service  of  iSiva. 

KU/S'IKA.  A  king  who,  according  to  some,  was  the  father 
of  Vi,9wamitra,  or,  according  to  others,  the  first  of  the  race  of 
Kusikas  from  whom  Gadhi,  the  father  of  Yiswamitra  descended. 

KUSUMA-PURA.  'The  city  of  flowers.'  Pa/tali-putra  or 
Patna. 

KUSUMAYUDHA.  A  name  of  Kama,  or  Cupid  as  the 
bearer  of  the  bow  {dyudha)  of  flowers  (kusuma). 

KUTSA.  A  Yedic  ^ishi  and  author  of  hymns.  He  is  re- 
presented as  being  persecuted  by  Indra,  but  on  one  occasion  he 
was  defended  by  that  god  against  the  demon  iSuslma.  It  is 
said  that  Indra  took  him  to  his  palace,  and  that  they  were  so 
much  alike  that  AS'achi  or  Pushpotkafa,  Indra's  wife,  did  not 
know  which  was  her  husband. 

KUYALAaS'WA,  KUYALAYAiSWA.  a  prince  of  the 
Solar  race,  who,  according  to  the  Yish?iu  Pura?^a,  had  21,000 
sons,  but  the  Hari-vansa  numbers  them  only  as  100.  Attended 
by  his  sons  he  attacked  the  great  Asura,  Dhundliu,  who  lived 
in  a  sea  of  sand,  and  harassed  the  devotions  of  the  pious  sage 
Uttanka.  They  unearthed  the  demon  and  slew  him,  from  which 
exploit  Kuvalaswa  got  the  title  of  Dhundhu-mara,  slayer  of 
Dhundhu ;  but  all  his  sons  except  three  perished  by  the  fiery 
breath  of  the  monster. 

KUYALAYAPli)A.  An  immense  elephant,  or  a  demon  in 
elephantine  form,  belonging  to  Kansa,  and  employed  by  him  to 
trample  the  boys  Knsh?2a  and  Bala-rama  to  death.  The  attempt 
failed  and  the  elephant  was  killed 

KUYERA.     In  the  Yedas,  a  chief  of  the  evil  beings  or  spirits 


174  KUVERA. 

living  in  the  shades :  a  sort  of  Pluto,  and  called  by  his  patronymic 
Yai^ravana.  Later  he  is  Pluto  in  another  sense,  as  god  of  wealth 
and  chief  of  the  Yakshas  and  Guhyakas.  He  was  son  of  Yisravas 
by  Ifi^a^dfZa,  but  he  is  sometimes  called  son  of  Pulastya,  who  was 
father  of  Yisravas.  This  is  explained  by  the  Maha-bharata,  accord- 
ing to  which  Ivuvera  was  son  of  Pulastya,  but  that  sage  being 
offended  with  Kuvera  for  his  adulation  of  Bralima,  "  reproduced 
the  half  of  himself  in  the  form  of  Yisravas,"  and  had  Havana 
and  other  children.  {See  Yisravas.)  Kuvera's  city  is  Alaka 
(also  called  Prabha,  Yasu-dhara,  and  Yasu-sthali)  in  the  Hima- 
layas, and  his  garden  Chaitra-ratha  on  Mandara,  one  of  the  spurs 
of  Mount  ]\Ieru,  where  he  is  waited  upon  by  the  Kinnaras. 
Some  authorities  place  his  abode  on  ]\Iount  Kailasa  in  a  palace 
built  by  Yiswa-karma.  He  was  half-brother  of  EavaTia,  and, 
according  to  the  Eamaya?2a  and  Maha-bharata,  he  once  had 
possession  of  the  city  of  Lanka  in  Ceylon,  which  was  also  built 
by  Y*iswa-karma,  and  from  which  he  was  expelled  by  Ravawa. 
The  same  authority  states  that  he  performed  austerities  for 
thousands  of  vears,  and  obtained  the  boon  from  Brahma  that  he 
should  be  immortal,  one  of  the  guardian  deities  of  the  world, 
and  the  god  of  wealth.  So  he  is  regent  of  the  north,  and  the 
keeper  of  gold  and  silver,  jewels  and  pearls,  and  all  the  trea- 
sures of  the  earth,  besides  nine  particular  Xidhis,  or  treasures, 
the  nature  of  which  is  not  well  understood.  Brahma  also  gave 
him  the  great  self-moving  aerial  car  Pushpaka  (q.v.).  His  wife 
is  Yakslil,  Charvl,  or  Kauverl,  daughter  of  the  Danava  j\Iura. 
His  sons  are  Mam-gT?iva  or  Yarwa-kavi  and  iSTala-kubara  or 
Mayu-raja,  and  his  daughter  Mmakshi  (fish-eyed).  He  is  repre- 
sented as  a  white  man  deformed  in  body,  and  having  three  legs 
and  only  eight  teeth.  His  body  is  covered  with  ornaments. 
He  receives  no  worship.  The  name  Ku-vera,  as  also  the  variant 
Ku-tanu,  signifies  '  vile  body,'  referring  to  his  ugliness.  He  is 
also  called  Dhana-pati,  'lord  of  wealth;'  Ichchha-vasu,  'who 
has  Avealth  at  will ;'  Yaksha-raja,  '  cliief  of  the  Yakshas  ; '  Mayu- 
rfija,  'king  of  the  Kinnaras  ;'  Rakshasendra,  '  chief  of  the  Rak- 
shasas  ;'  Ratna-garbha,  'belly  of  jewels  ;'  Raja-raja,  'king  of 
kings;'  and  Nara-raja,  'king  of  men'  (in  allusion  to  the  power 
of  riclies).  From  his  parentage  he  is  called  YaisravaTza,  Paulas- 
tya,  and  Ai(^avic?a  or  Ailavila.  As  an  especial  friend  of  ^S'iva  he 
is  called  Isa-sakhi,  &c. 


LAGHU-KA  UMUDI—LAKSHMANA.  175 

LAGHU-KAUMUDI.  A  modern  and  very  much  simplified 
edition  of  Pardni's  Grammar  by  Yarada  Kaja.  It  has  been  edited 
and  translated  by  Dr.  Ballantyne. 

LAKSHMAiVA.      i.  Son  of  King  Dasa-ratha  by  his  wife  Sii- 
mitra.     He  was  the  twin  brother  of  /S'atru-ghna,  and  the  half- 
brother  and  especial  friend  of  Kama-chandra.     Under  the  pecu- 
liar circumstances  of  his  birth,  one-eighth  part  of  the  divinity 
of  Yishwu  became  manifest  in  him.      {See  Da.5a-ratha.)     But 
according  to  the  Adhyatma  Ramayawa,  he  was  an  incarnation  of 
/S'esha.     When  Rama  left  his  father's  court  to  go  to  the  hermi- 
tage  of  Yiswamitra,  Lakshmawa  accompanied  him,  and  after- 
wards attended  him  in  his  exile  and  in  all  his  wanderings.     He 
was  also  very  attached  to  Rama's  wife  Sita,  which  gave  rise  to 
the  reproach  that  the  two  brothers  were  husbands  of  one  wife. 
On  one  occasion,  indeed,  Sita  reproached  Lakshma/^a  that  he 
did  not  hasten  to  rescue  Rama  from  danger,  because  he  wished 
to  obtain  herself.     His  own  wife  was  Urmila,  the  sister  of  Sita, 
and  he  had  two  sons,  Angada  and  Chandra-ketu.     While  Riima 
and   Lakshma/ia   were    living  in   the   wilderness,  a   Rakshasi 
named  /S'lirpa-nakha,  sister  of  Ravawa,  fell  in  love  with  Rama 
and  made  advances  to  him.     He  jestingly  referred  her  to  Laksh- 
ma/ia,  who  in  like  manner  sent  her  back  to  Rama.     When  she 
was  again  repulsed  she  attacked  Sita,  whom  Rama  was  obliged 
to  defend.     Rama  then  called  upon  Lakshmawa  to  disfigure  the 
Rakshasi,  and  accordingly  he  cut  off  her  nose  and  ears.     The 
mutilated  female  called  upon  her  brother  to  avenge  her,   and 
a  fierce  war  ensued.     When   Sita  was  carried  off  by  Ravawa, 
Lakshmawa  accompanied  Rama  in  his  search,  and  he  ably  and 
bravely  supported   him   in   his  war  against   Rava/ia.     Rama's 
earthly  career  was  drawing  to  a  close,  and  Time  was  sent  to 
inform  him  that  he  must  elect  whether  to  stay  longer  on  earth, 
or  to  return  to  the  place  from  whence  he  had  come.     \Vliile 
they  were  in  conference,  the  irascible  sage  Dur-vasas  came  and 
demanded  to  see  Rama  instantly,    threatening   him  with  the 
most  direful  curses  if  any  delay  were  allowed  to  occur.     To  save 
his  brother  Rama  from  the  threatened  curse,  but  aware  of  the 
consequences  that  would  ensue  to  himself  from  breaking  in  upon 
Rama's  interview  with  Time,  he  went  in  and  brought  Rama  out. 
LakshmaTza  knowing  his  fate,  retired  to  the  river  AS'arayii  and 
resigned  himself.     The  gods  then  showered  down  flowers  upon 


176  LAKSHMI. 

him  and  conveyed  liim  "bodily  to  heaven.  2.  A  son  of  Diir- 
yodhana,  killed  by  Abhimanyu. 

LAKSHMl.  The  word  occurs  in  the  i?/g-veda  with  the 
sense  of  good  fortune,  and  in  the  Atharva-veda  the  idea  has 
become  personified  in  females  both  of  a  lucky  and  unlucky  char- 
acter. The  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  as  explained  by  the  commenta- 
tor, makes  Lakshmi  and  iS'rl  to  be  two  wives  of  Aditya,  and  the 
/S'atapatha  Brahma?ia  describes  Sy\  as  issuing  forth  from  Pra- 
jiipati. 

Lakshmi  or  SrL  in  later  times  is  the  goddess  of  fortune,  wife 
of  Vish7iu,  and  mother  of  Kama.  The  origin  ascribed  to  her  by 
the  Ranlaya?^a  is  the  one  commonly  received.  According  to  this 
legend  she  sprang,  like  Aphrodite,  from  the  froth  of  the  ocean,  in 
full  beauty  with  a  lotus  in  her  hand,  when  it  was  churned  by  the 
gods  and  the  Asuras.  Another  legend  represents  her  as  floating 
on  the  flower  of  a  lotus  at  the  creation.  With  reference  to  this 
origin,  one  of  her  names  is  Kshirabdhi-tanaya,  '  daughter  of  the 
sea  of  milk.'  From  her  connection  with  the  lotus  she  is  called 
Padma.  According  to  the  Purawas,  she  was  the  daughter  of 
Bhr^'gu  and  Khyati.  The  Yish'^u  Purawa  says,  "  Her  first 
birth  was  the  daughter  of  Bhr/gu  by  Khyati.  It  was  at  a  sub- 
sequent period  that  she  was  produced  from  the  sea  at  the  churn- 
ing of  the  ocean.  .  .  .  When  Hari  was  born  as  a  dwarf,  Lakshmi 
appeared  from  a  lotus  (as  Padmil  or  Kamala).  When  he 
was  born  as  Rama  of  the  race  of  Bh?'igu  (or  Parasu-rama),  she 
was  Dharam.  When  he  was  Raghava  (Rama-chandra),  she  was 
Sita.  And  when  he  was  Krish?za  she  became  Rukmim.  In 
the  other  descents  of  yish?iu  she  is  his  associate."  One  version 
of  the  Ramayawa  also  aflirms  that  "  Lakshmi,  the  mistress  of 
the  worlds,  was  born  by  her  own  will,  in  a  beautiful  field 
opened  up  by  the  plough,"  and  received  from  Janaka  tlie  name 
of  Sltii. 

Lakslimi  is  said  to  liave  four  arms,  but  she  is  the  type  of 
beauty,  and  is  generally  depicted  as  having  only  two.  In  one 
hand  she  holds  a  lotus.  "  She  has  no  temples,  but  being  god- 
dess of  abundance  and  fortune,  she  continues  to  be  assiduously 
courted,  and  is  not  likely  to  fall  into  neglect."  Other  names  of 
Lakshmi  are  Hira,  Indira,  Jaladhi-ja,  'ocean  born;'  Chanchala 
or  Lola,  '  the  fickle,'  as  goddess  of  fortune  ;  Loka-milta,  '  mother 
of  the  world.' 


LALITA-VISTARA—LINGA.  177 

LALITA-VISTARA.  A  work  in  Sanskrit  verse  on  the 
life  and  doctrines  of  Buddha.  It  has  been  printed  in  the 
Bibliotheca  Indica. 

LANG  ALL      '  Armed  with  a  ploughshare.'     Bala-rama. 

LANKA.  I.  The  island  of  Ceylon  or  its  capital  city.  The 
city  is  described  in  the  Ramayawa  as  of  vast  extent  and  of  great 
magnificence,  with  seven  broad  moats  and  seven  stupendous 
walls  of  stone  and  metal.  It  is  said  to  have  been  built  of  gold 
by  Viswa-karma  for  the  residence  of  Kuvera,  from  whom  it  was 
taken  by  RavaTia.  The  Bhagavata  Pura?ia  represents  that  the 
island  was  originally  the  summit  of  Mount  Meru,  which  was 
broken  off  by  the  god  of  the  wind  and  hurled  into  the  sea.  2. 
Name  of  one  of  the  AS'akinis  or  evil  spirits  attendant  on  >S'iVa 
and  Devi. 

LATA.  A  country  comprising  Kandesh  and  part  of  Guze- 
rat  about  the  IMhye  river.  It  is  also  called  Lar,  and  is  the 
Aaoiy.71  of  Ptolemy. 

LArYAYANA.  Author  of  a  Siltra  work.  It  has  been 
printed  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica. 

LAY  A.  One  of  the  twin  sons  of  Rama  and  Sita.  He 
reigned  at  /Sravasti.     See  Rama. 

LAVAiVA.  A  Rakshasa,  son  of  Madhu  by  Kumbhinasi,  the 
sister  of  RaA^a/za  and  daughter  of  Yisravas.  He  inherited  from 
his  father  an  invincible  trident  which  had  been  presented  to 
him  by  ^iva.  He  was  surprised  without  his  weapon  and  killed 
by  /S'atru-glina.  Lava?^a  was  king  of  Mathura  and  >Satru-ghna 
succeeded  him. 

LIKHITA.     Author  of  a  Dharma-sastra  or  code  of  law. 

LiLAYATL  '  Charming.'  The  fanciful  title  of  that  chapter 
of  Bhaskara's  Siddlianta-siromam  which  treats  of  arithmetic 
and  geometry.  It  has  been  translated  by  Colebrooke  and  Dr. 
Taylor,  and  the  text  has  been  printed. 

LINGA,  LINGAM.  The  male  organ.  The  phallus.  The 
symbol  under  which  iS^iva  is  universally  worshipped.  It  is  of 
comparatively  modern  introduction  and  is  unknown  to  the  Yedas, 
but  it  receives  distinct  notice  in  the  Maha-bharata.  "  The 
emblem — a  plain  column  of  stone,  or  sometimes  a  cone  of 
plastic  mud — suggests  no  offensive  ideas.  The  people  call  it 
^iva  or  Maha-deva,  and  there's  an  end."  In  the  /Siva  Purawa, 
and  in  the  Nandi  Upa-pura?ia,    /S^iva  is  made  to  say,   "  I   am 


178  LINGA—LINGA  PURANA. 

omnipresent,  but  I  am  especially  in  twelve  forms  and  places." 
These  are  the  twelve  great  Lingas,  which  are  as  follow  : — 

1.  Soma-ndtha.  'Lord  of  the  moon.'  At  Somnath  Pattan,  a 
city  which  still  remains  in  Guzerat.  This  was  the  celebrated 
"  idol "  destroyed  by  Mahmiid  of  GhaznI. 

2.  MallikdrJuTia  ov  Srl-saila.  'The  mountain  of  SrV  On  a 
mountain  near  the  river  Krishwa. 

3.  Makd-kdla,  Mahd-kdleswara.  At  TJjjain.  Upon  the  capture 
of  TJjjain  in  the  reign  of  Altamsh,  1231  A.D.,  this  deity  of  stone 
Avas  carried  to  Delhi  and  there  broken  up. 

4.  Omkdra.  This  is  also  said  to  have  been  at  TJjjain,  but  it 
is  probably  the  shrine  of  Mahadeva  at  Omkara  Mandhatta,  on 
the  JSTarmada. 

5.  Amareswara.    '  God  of  gods.'    This  is  also  placed  at  TJjjain. 

6.  Vaidya-ndtha.  '  Lord  of  physicians.'  At  Deogarh  in  Bengal. 
The  temple  is  still  in  being,  and  is  a  celebrated  place  of  pil- 
grimage. 

7.  Bdmesa  oi Bdmeswara.  '  Lord  of  Kama.'  On  the  island  of 
Ramisseram,  between  the  continent  and  Ceylon.  This  Lingam, 
whose  name  signifies  '  Rama's  lord,'  is  fabled  to  have  been  set 
up  by  Rama.  The  temple  is  still  in  tolerable  re23air,  and  is  one 
of  the  most  magnificent  in  India. 

8.  Bhlma  Sankara.  In  DakinT.  This  is  in  all  probability  the 
same  with  Bhimeswara,  a  Lingam  worshipped  at  Dracharam,  in 
the  Rajamahendrl  (Rajamundry)  district,  and  there  venerated  as 
one  of  the  twelve. 

9.  Visweswara.  'Lord  of  all.'  At  Benares.  It  has  been  for 
many  centuries  the  chief  object  of  worship)  at  Benares.  Also 
called  Jyotir-lingam. 

10.  Trijamhaka,  Tryaksha.  '  Tri-ocular. '  On  the  banks  of  the 
Gomati. 

11.  Gaiitamesa.     '  Lord  of  Gautama.' 

12.  Keddresa,  Keddni-ndtha.  In  the  Himalaya.  The  deity  is 
represented  as  a  shapeless  mass  of  rock. 

jSTaga-natha  or  Naga-niithesa  and  Yameswara  are  other  names, 
probably  of  Xo.  6  and  No.  11. 

LINGA  PURAiVA.  "  Where  IVIaheswara  (5iva),  present  in 
the  Agni  Linga,  explained  (the  objects  of  life),  virtue,  wealth, 
pleasure,  and  final  liberation,  at  the  end  of  the  Agni  K(dpa,  that 
Pura?ia,   consisting  of  11,000  stanzas,  was  called  the  Linga  by 


LOHA-MUKHAS—LOKA.  179 

Brahma  Iiimself."  The  work  conforms  accurately  enough  to 
this  description.  "  Although  the  Linga  holds  a  prominent  place 
in  this  PuraTia,  the  spirit  of  the  worship  is  as  little  influenced 
by  the  character  of  the  type  as  can  well  be  imagined.  There  is 
nothing  like  the  phallic  orgies  of  antiquity :  it  is  all  mystical 
and  spiritual.  The  work  has  preserved,  apparently,  some  iS'aiva 
legends  of  an  early  date,  but  the  greater  part  is  ritual  and  mysti- 
cism of  comparatively  recent  introduction." — Wihon.  It  is  not 
likely  that  this  Pura^za  is  earlier  than  the  eighth  or  ninth  cen- 
tury.    This  Purawa  has  been  lithographed  in  Bombay. 

LOHA-MUKHAS.  'Iron-faced  men.'  Described  in  the 
Maha-bharata  as  swift,  one-footed,  undecaying,  strong  men-eaters. 

LOKA.  A  world,  a  division  of  the  universe.  In  general 
the  tri-loka  or  three  worlds  are  heaven,  earth,  and  hell.  Another 
classification  enumerates  seven,  exclusive  of  the  infernal  regions, 
also  seven  in  number  which  are  classed  under  Patala.  The 
upper  worlds  are  : — (i.)  Bhur-loka,  the  earth.  (2.)  Bhuvar-loka, 
the  space  between  the  earth  and  the  sun,  the  region  of  the 
Munis,  Siddhas,  &c.  (3.)  Swar-loka,  the  heaven  of  Indra,  be- 
tween the  sun  and  the  polar  star.  (4.)  Mahar-loka,  the  usual 
abode  of  Bh?'/gu  and  other  saints,  who  are  supposed  to  be  co- 
existent with  Brahma.  During  the  conflagration  of  these  lower 
worlds  the  saints  ascend  to  the  next,  or  (5.)  Jana-loka,  which 
is  described  as  the  abode  of  Brahma's  sons,  Sanaka,  Sananda, 
and  Sanat-kumara.  Above  this  is  the  (6.)  Tapar  loka,  where  the 
deities  called  Vairagis  reside.  (7.)  Satya-loka  or  Brahma- 
loka,  is  the  abode  of  Brahma,  and  translation  to  this  world 
exempts  beings  from  further  birth.  The  first  three  worlds  are 
destroyed  at  the  end  of  each  kalpa,  or  day  of  Brahma;  the 
last  three  at  the  end  of  his  life,  or  of  a  hundred  of  his  years  ; 
the  fourth  loka  is  equally  permanent,  but  is  uninliabitable  from 
heat  at  the  time  the  first  three  are  burning.  Another  enumeration 
calls  the  seven  worlds  earth,  sky,  heaven,  middle  region,  place 
of  birth,  mansion  of  the  blest,  and  abode  of  truth  ;  placing  the 
sons  of  Brahma  in  the  sixth  division,  and  stating  the  fifth,  or 
Jana-loka,  to  be  that  where  animals  destroyed  in  the  general 
conflagration  are  born  again.  The  Sankhya  and  Yedanta  schools 
of  philosophy  recognise  eight  lokas  or  regions  of  material  exist- 
ence : — (i.)  Brahma-loka,  the  world  of  the  superior  deities; 
(2.)  Pitn'-loka,  that  of  the  Pitris,  jRishis,  and  Prajapatis;    (3.) 


i8o  LOKALOKA—LOMA-HARSHANA, 

Soma-loka,  of  the  moon  and  planets;  (4.)  Indra-loka,  of  tlie 
inferior  deities;  (5.)  Gandliarva-loka,  of  heavenly  spirits  ;  (6.) 
Kakshasa-loka,  of  the  Rakshasas ;  (7.)  Yaksha-loka,  of  the 
Yakshas  ;  (8.)  Pi^acha-loka,  of  the  Pisachas  or  imps  and  fiends. 

LOKALOKA.  '  A  world  and  no  world,'  A  fabnlous  belt 
of  mountains  bounding  the  outermost  of  the  seven  seas  and 
di\dding  the  visible  world  from  the  regions  of  darkness.  It  is 
"  ten  thousand  yojanas  in  breadth,  and  as  many  in  height,  and 
beyond  it  perpetual  darkness  invests  the  mountains  all  around, 
which  darkness  is  again  encompassed  by  the  shell  of  an  egg." 
It  is  called  also  Chakra-vac^a  or  Chakra-vala. 

LOKA-PALAS.  Supporters  or  guardians  of  the  world. 
The  guardian  deities  who  preside  over  the  eight  points  of  the 
compass,  id,  the  four  cardinal  and  four  intermediate  points  of 
the  compass  : — (i.)  Indra,  east ;  (2.)  Agni, south-east ;  (3.)  Yama, 
south ;  (4.)  Smya,  south-west ;  (5.)  YaruTza,  west ;  (6.)  Yayu, 
north-west;  (7.)  Kuvera,  north;  (8.)  Soma,  north-east.  Nirr/ti 
is  by  some  substituted  for  No.  4,  and  P7'ithivl  or  iS'iva,  especially 
in  his  form  Isana,  for  Xo.  8.  Each  of  these  guardian  deities 
has  an  elephant  who  takes  part  in  the  defence  and  protection  of 
the  quarter,  and  these  eight  elephants  are  themselves  called 
Loka-palas  : — (i.)  Indra's  elephant  at  the  east  is  Airavata.  He 
is  also  called  Abhra-matanga,  '  elephant  of  the  clouds  ; '  Arka- 
sodara,  '  brother  of  the  sun ; '  jN^aga-malla,  '  the  fighting  ele- 
phant;' Sada-dana, 'always  in  rut;'  Madambara,  'covered  with 
ichor.'  His  wife's  name  is  Abhramu.  (2.)  Agni's  elephant  at 
the  south-east  is  Pu?zf/arika  and  his  female  Kapila.  (3.)  Yama's 
at  the  south  is  Yamana  and  his  female  Pingala.  (4.)  Surya's  at 
the  south-west  is  Kumuda  and  his  female  is  Anupama.  (5.) 
Yaruwa's  at  the  west  is  Anjana,  Avhose  female  is  Anjanavati. 
(6.)  A^ayu's  at  the  north-west  is  Pushpa-danta,  whose  female  is 
*S'ubha-dantI.  (7.)  Kuvera's  at  the  north  is  Sarva-bliauma ;  and 
(8.)  Soma's  elephant  at  the  north-east  is  Su-pratika.  •  The  two 
other  females  are  Anjana  and  Tamra-kar?ii,  whose  spouses  are 
doubtful.  Anjanilvatl  is  sometimes  assigned  to  Su-pratlka..  In 
the  Ramiiya^za  (t.)  Indra's  eastern  elephant  is  called  Yirupaksha; 
(2.)  Yaru??a'  s  elephant  at  the  west,  Saumanasa;  (3.)  Yama's  at 
the  south  is  jMalia-padma,  and  (4.)  Kuvera's  at  the  north  is 
Ilima-piiTifZara. 

LO^MA-HARSITAiVA  (or  Roma-harsha?za).  A  bard  or  pane- 
gyrist who  first  gave  forth  the  Purfuias. 


LOMA-PADA—MADHA  VA.  i8i 

LOMA-PADA  (or  Roma-pada).  A  king  of  Anga,  chiefly 
remarkable  for  his  connection  with  itishya-srmga  (q.v.). 

LOPAMUDRA.  A  girl  whom  the  sage  Agastya  formed 
from  the  most  graceful  parts  of  different  animals  and  secretly 
introduced  into  the  palace  of  the  king  of  Vidarbha,  where  the 
child  was  believed  to  be  the  daughter  of  the  king.  Agastya 
had  made  this  girl  with  the  object  of  having  a  wife  after  his 
own  heart,  and  when  she  was  marriageable  he  demanded  her 
hand.  The  king  was  loath  to  consent,  but  was  obliged  to  yield, 
and  she  became  the  wife  of  Agastya.  Her  name  is  explained 
as  signifying  that  the  animals  suffered  loss  {lopa)  by  her  engross- 
ing their  distinctive  beauties  (mudra),  as  the  eyes  of  the  deer, 
&c.  She  is  also  called  Kaushitaki  and  Vara-prada.  A  hymn  in 
the  J^ig-veda  is  attributed  to  her. 

MAD  A.  *  Intoxication.'  Described  in  the  Maha-bharata  as 
"  a  fearful  open-mouthed  monster,  created  by  the  sage  Chyavana, 
having  teeth  and  grinders  of  portentous  length,  and  jaws  one 
of  which  enclosed  the  earth  and  the  other  the  sky,"  who  got 
Indra  and  the  other  gods  into  his  jaws  "  like  fishes  in  the 
mouth  of  a  sea  monster." 

MADAYANTI.  Wife  of  King  Saudasa  or  Kalmasha-pada. 
She  was  allowed  to  consort  with  the  sage  Yasish/ha.  According 
to  some  this  was  a  meritorious  act  on  the  king's  part  and  a  favour 
to  Vasish/ha  ;  according  to  others  it  was  for  the  sake  of  obtaining 
progeny.     See  Kalmasha-pada. 

MAD  HAY  A.     A  name  of  Krishwa  or  Yish?iu. 

MADHAYA,  MADHAYACHARYA.  A  celebrated  scholar 
and  religious  teacher.  He  was  a  native  of  Tuluva,  and  became 
prime  minister  of  Yira  Bukka  Raya,  king  of  the  great  Hindu 
state  of  Yijaya-nagara,  who  lived  in  the  fourteenth  century.  He 
was  brother  of  Sayawa,  the  author  of  the  great  commentary  on 
the  Yeda,  in  which  Avork  Madliava  himself  is  believed  to  have 
shared.  Wilson  observes,  "  Both  the  brothers  are  celebrated  as 
scholars,  and  many  im^^ortant  works  are  attributed  to  them ; 
not  only  scholia  on  the  Sanhitas  and  Brahma?ias  of  the  Yedas, 
but  original  works  on  grammar  and  law ;  the  fact  no  doubt 
being,  that  they  availed  themselves  of  those  means  which 
their  situation  and  influence  secured  them,  and  employed  the 
most  learned  Brahmans  they  could  attract  to  Yijaya-nagara 
upon  the  works  which  l^ear  their  names,  and  to  Avhich  they 
contributed  their  own  labour  and  learning;  their  works  were 


i82  MADHA  vi—madhvandina. 

therefore  compiled  under  peculiar  advantages,  and  are  deservedly 
held  in  the  highest  estimation."  Among  the  works  of  Mad- 
hava  are  the  Sarva-darsana-sangraha  and  the  Sankshepa  iS'ankara- 
vijaya.  jSIadhava  was  a  worsliipper  of  Yishmi,  and  as  a  re- 
ligions pliilosopher  he  held  the  doctrine  of  dwaita  or  dualism, 
according  to  which  the  supreme  soul  of  the  universe  and  the 
human  soul  are  distinct.  Thus  he  was  opposed  to  the  teaching 
of  >S'ankaracharya,  who  was  a  follower  of  -Siva,  and  upheld  the 
Vedanta  doctrine  of  a-dtvaita,  "no  duality,"  according  to  which 
God  and  soul,  spirit  and  matter,  are  all  one. 

MADHAYI.     A  name  of  Lakshmi. 

MADHU.  I.  A  demon  slain  by  Kr/shna.  (See  Kai/ahha.) 
2.  Another,  or  the  same  demon,  said  to  have  been  killed  by 
>Satru-ghna. 

MADHU-CHHAXDAS.  A  son  of  Yiswamitra,  who  had 
fifty  sons  older  and  fifty  younger  than  this  one  ;  but  they  are 
spoken  of  as  "  a  hundred  sons."  He  is  the  reputed  author  of 
some  hymns  of  the  ^ig-veda. 

MADHU-KA/SA.  Described  in  the  Atharva-veda  as  "the 
brilliant  grand-daughter  of  the  Maruts,  the  mother  of  the  Adityas, 
the  daughter  of  the  Vasus,  the  life  of  creatures,  and  the  centre 
of  immortality."  She  "  sprang  from  the  sky,  the  earth,  the  air, 
the  sea,  fire,  and  wind ;  "  and  it  is  added,  "  all  creatures,  worship- 
ping her  who  dwells  in  immortality,  rejoice  in  their  hearts." 

MADHUEANIRUDDHA.  A  drama  in  eight  acts  by  ^a- 
yani  Chandra  ASekhara.  It  is  quite  a  modern  work.  "  The  sub- 
ject is  the  secret  loves  of  tjsha,  daughter  of  the  Asura  Ba??a 
and  Aniruddlia,  grandson  of  K?'/sh?za.  The  piece  abounds  too 
much  with  description  to  be  a  good  play;  the  style  lias  con- 
siderable merit." — Wilson. 

MADHU-StJDANA.   '  Slayer  of  Madhu.'  A  name  of  Knsliwa. 

MADHYA-DE»S^A.  The  middle  country,  described  by  Mann 
as  "  the  tract  situated  between  the  Himavat  and  the  Yindliya 
ranges  to  the  east  of  Yinasana  and  to  the  west  of  Prayilga 
(Allahabad)."     Another  authority  makes  it  the  Doab. 

ISIADHYANDmA.  A  Yedic  school,  a  subdivision  of  the 
Yajasaneyi  school,  and  connected  with  the  ^atapatha  Brah- 
mawa.  It  had  also  its  own  system  of  astronomy,  and  obtained 
its  name  from  making  noon  (madhya-dina)  the  starting-point  of 
the  planetary  movements. 


MAD  IRA— MA  HA-BHARA  TA.  183 

MADIRA.  A  name  of  Varum,  wife  of  Varu?ia,  and  goddess 
of  wine. 

MADKA.  Name  of  a  country  and  people  to  the  north-west 
of  Hindustan.  Its  capital  was  iS'akala,  and  the  territory  ex- 
tended from  the  Biyas  to  the  Chinab,  or,  according  to  others, 
as  far  as  the  Jhilam. 

made!  a  sister  of  the  king  of  the  Madras,  and  second 
wife  of  Pa?z^u,  to  Avhom  she  bore  twin-sons,  jSTakula  and  Saha- 
deva ;  but  the  Aswins  are  alleged  to  have  been  their  real  father. 
She  became  a  sati  on  the  funeral  pile  of  her  husband. 

MAGADHA.  The  country  of  South  Bihar,  where  the  Pali 
language  was  spoken. 

MAGHA.  A  poet,  son  of  Dattaka,  and  author  of  one  of  the 
great  artificial  poems  called,  from  its  subject,  >S'isupala-badha,  or, 
from  its  author,  Magha-kavya. 

MAGHAYAT,  MAGHA  VAX.     A  name  of  Indra. 

MAHA-BALI.  A  title  of  the  dwarf  Bali,  whose  city  is 
called  Maha-bali-pura,  which  name  is  applied  to  the  Tamil 
*'  Mamallai-pura,"  or  Seven  Pagodas  near  Madras.     See  Bali. 

MAHA-BHAKATA.  'The  great  (war  of  the)  Bharatas.' 
The  great  epic  poem  of  the  Hindus,  probably  the  longest  in  the 
w^orld.  It  is  divided  into  eighteen  ^arvas  or  books,  and  con- 
tains about  220,000  lines.  The  poem  has  been  subjected  to 
much  modification  and  has  received  numerous  comparatively 
modern  additions,  but  many  of  its  legends  and  stories  are  of 
Vedic  character  and  of  great  antiquity.  They  seem  to  have  long 
existed  in  a  scattered  state,  and  to  have  been  brought  together 
at  different  times.  Upon  them  have  been  founded  many  of  the 
poems  and  dramas  of  later  days,  and  among  them  is  the  story 
of  Rama,  upon  which  the  Ramayawa  itself  may  have  been  based. 
According  to  Hindu  authorities,  they  were  finally  arranged  and 
reduced  to  writing  by  a  Brahman  or  Brahmans.  There  is  a 
good  deal  of  mystery  about  this,  for  the  jDoem  is  attributed  to 
a  divine  source.  The  reputed  author  was  KrisliTia  Dwaipayana, 
the  Vyasa,  or  arranger,  of  the  Vedas.  He  is  said  to  have  taught 
the  poem  to  his  pupil  Vaisampayana,  who  afterwards  recited  it 
at  a  festival  to  King  Janamejaya.  The  leading  subject  of  the 
poem  is  the  great  war  between  the  Kauravas  and  Pa?zf/avas,  who 
were  descendants,  through  Bharata,  from  Puru,  the  great  an- 
cestor of  one  branch  of  the  Lunar  race.     The   object  of   tlie 


i84  MAHA-BHARATA. 

great  struggle  was  the  kingdom  whose  capital  was  Hastina-pura 
(elephant  city),  the  ruins  of  which  are  traceable  fifty-seven  miles 
north-east  of  Dellii,  on  an  old  bed  of  the  Ganges. 

KWshwa  Dwaipayana  Vyasa  is  not  only  the  author  of  the  poem, 
but  the  source  from  whom  the  chief  actors  sprung.  He  was  the 
son  of  the  itislii  Parasara  by  a  nymph  named  SatyavatI,  who, 
although  she  had  given  birth  to  a  son,  remained  a  virgin.  There 
was  a  king,  a  descendant  of  Bharata,  named  ^SUntanu,  who  had 
a  son  called  ^Santavana,  better  known  as  Bhishma.  In  his  old 
age  jS^antanu  wished  to  marry  again,  but  the  hereditary  rights  of 
Bhishma  were  an  obstacle  to  his  obtaining  a  desirable  match. 
To  gratify  his  father's  desire,  Bhishma  divested  himself  of  all 
rights  of  succession,  and  AS'antanu  then  married  SatyavatI.  She 
bore  him  two  sons,  the  elder  of  whom,  Chitrangada,  succeeded 
to  the  throne,  but  was  soon  killed  in  battle  by  a  Gandharva 
king  who  bore  the  same  name.  Vichitra-virya,  the  younger, 
succeeded,  but  died  childless,  leaving  two  widows,  named  Am- 
bika  and  Ambalika,  daughters  of  a  king  of  Kasi.  SatyavatI 
then  called  on  K?'ish?ia  Dwaipayana  Vyasa  to  fulfil  the  law,  and 
raise  up  seed  to  his  half-brother.  Vyasa  had  lived  the  life  of 
an  anchorite  in  the  woods,  and  liis  severe  austerities  had  made 
him  terrible  in  appearance.  The  two  widows  were  so  frightened 
at  him  that  the  elder  one  closed  her  eyes,  and  so  gave  birth  to 
a  blind  son,  who  received  the  name  of  Dhr/ta-rash/ra ;  and  the 
younger  turned  so  pale  that  her  son  was  called  Pa?i<iu,  '  the 
pale.'  SatyavatI  wished  for  a  child  without  blemish,  but  tlie 
elder  widow  shrank  from  a  second  association  with  Vyasa,  and 
made  a  slave  girl  take  her  place.  From  this  girl  was  born  a 
son  who  was  named  Vidura.  These  children  were  brought  up  by 
their  uncle  Bhishma,  who  acted  as  regent.  WHien  they  became 
of  age,  Dhrita-rash/ra  was  deemed  incapable  of  reigning  in  con- 
sequence of  his  blindness,  and  Pa7ic?u  came  to  the  throne.  The 
name  Pa?ic?u  has  suggested  a  suspicion  of  leprosy,  and  either 
through  that,  or  in  consequence  of  a  curse,  as  the  poem  states, 
he  retired  to  the  forest,  and  I)hrita-rash^ra  then  became  king. 

V\xndw.  had  two  wives,  Kunti  or  Pntha,  daughter  of  /Sura,  king 
of  the  /Sura-senas,  and  Madri,  sister  of  the  king  of  the  Madras ; 
but  either  through  disease  or  the  curse  passed  upon  him,  lie  did 
not  consort  with  his  wives.  He  retired  into  solitude  in  the 
Himalaya  mountains,  and  there  he  died ;  his  wives,  who  accom- 


MAHA-BHARA  TA.  185 

paiiied  him  having  borne  him  five  sons.  The  paternity  of  these 
children  is  attributed  to  different  gods,  but  Pamfu  acknowledged 
them,  and  they  received  the  patronymic  of  PaTic^ava.  Kunti  was 
the  mother  of  the  three  elder  sons,  and  Madri  of  the  two  younger. 
Yudhi-sh/hira  (firm  in  fight),  the  eldest,  was  son  of  Dharma,  the 
judge  of  the  dead,  and  is  considered  a  pattern  of  manly  firmness, 
justice,  and  integrity.  Bhima  or  Bhima-sena  (the  terrible),  the 
second,  was  son  of  Vayu,  the  god  of  the  wind.  He  was  noted 
for  his  strength,  daring,  and  brute  courage ;  but  he  was  coarse, 
choleric,  and  given  to  vaunting.  He  was  such  a  great  eater  that 
he  was  called  Yrikodara,  '  wolf's  belly.'  Arjuna  (the  bright  or 
silvery),  the  third,  was  son  of  Indra,  the  god  of  the  sky.  He  is 
the  most  prominent  character,  if  not  the  hero,  of  the  poem.  He 
was  brave  as  the  bravest,  high-minded,  generous,  tender-hearted, 
and  chivahic  in  his  notions  of  honour.  Kakula  and  Saha-deva, 
the  fourth  and  fifth  sons,  were  the  twin  children  of  Madrl  by  the 
Aswini  Kumaras,  the  twin  sons  of  Surya,  the  sun.  They  were 
brave,  spirited,  and  amiable,  but  they  do  not  occupy  such  pro- 
minent positions  as  their  elder  brothers. 

Dhr^ta-rash/ra,  who  reigned  at  Hastina-pura,  was  blind.  By 
his  wife  Gandhari  he  had  a  hundred  sons,  and  one  daughter 
named  Du/i-salii.  This  numerous  offspring  was  owing  to  a  bless- 
ing from  Vyasa,  and  was  produced  in  a  marvellous  w^ay.  [See 
Gandliari.)  From  their  ancestor  Kuru  these  princes  w^ere  known 
as  the  Kauravas.  The  eldest  of  them,  Dur-yodhana  (hard  to 
subdue),  w^as  their  leader,  and  w^as  a  bold,  crafty,  malicious  man, 
an  embodiment  of  all  that  is  bad  in  a  prince.  Wliile  the  Pa?^u 
princes  were  yet  children,  they,  on  the  death  of  their  father, 
were  brought  to  Dhrita-rash^ra,  and  presented  to  him  as  his 
nephews.  He  took  charge  of  them,  showed  them  great  kindness, 
and  had  them  educated  with  his  ow^n  sons.  Differences  and  dis- 
likes soon  arose,  and  the  juvenile  emulation  and  rivalry  of  the 
princes  ripened  into  bitter  hatred  on  the  part  of  the  Kauravas. 
This  broke  into  an  open  flame  when  Dhrita-rash/ra  nominated 
Yudlii-sh^hira  as  his  Yuva-raja  or  heir-apparent.  The  jealousy 
and  the  opposition  of  his  sons  to  this  act  was  so  great  that 
Dhrita-rash/ra  sent  the  Pa?it/avas  away  to  Yarawavata,  where 
they  dwelt  in  retirement.  AYliile  they  were  living  there  Dur- 
yodhana  plotted  to  destroy  his  cousins  by  setting  fire  to  their 
house,  which  he  had  caused  to  be  made  very  combustible      All 


1 86  MAHA-BHARATA. 

the  five  brothers  were  for  a  time  supposed  to  have  perished  in 
the  fire,  but  they  had  received  timely  warning  from  Yidura,  and 
they  escaped  to  the  forest,  where  they  dressed  and  lived  in  dis- 
guise as  Brahmans  upon  alms. 

AATiile  the  PawZavas  were  living  in  the  forest  they  heard  that 
Draupada,  king  of  the  Panchalas,  had  proclaimed  a  swayam-vara, 
at  which  his  daughter  Draupadi  was  to  select  her  husband  from 
among  the  princely  and  warlike  suitors.  They  went  there,  still 
disguised  as  Brahmans.  Arjuna  bent  the  mighty  bow  which 
had  defied  the  strength  of  the  Kauravas  and  all  other  compe- ' 
titors,  and  the  Pa?i6?avas  were  victorious  over  every  opponent. 
They  threw  off  their  disguise,  and  Draupadi  was  won  by  Arjuna. 
The  brothers  then  conducted  Draupadi  to  their  home.  On  their 
arrival  they  told  their  mother  KuntI  that  they  had  made  a  great 
acquisition,  and  she  unwittingly  directed  them  to  share  it  among 
tliem.  The  mother's  command  could  not  be  evaded,  and  Vyasa 
confirmed  her  direction  ;  so  Draupadi  became  the  wife  in  com- 
mon of  the  five  brothers,  and  it  was  arrancfed  that  she  should 
dwell  for  two  days  in  the  house  of  each  of  the  five  brothers  in 
succession.  This  marriage  has  been  justified  by  a  piece  of 
special  pleading,  which  contends  that  the  five  princes  were  all 
portions  of  one  deity,  and  therefore  onl}^  one  distinct  person,  to 
whom  a  Avoman  might  lawfully  be  married. 

This  public  appearance  made  known  the  existence  of  the 
Pa?if/avas.  Their  uncle  Dhrita-rash/ra  recalled  them  to  his  court 
and  divided  his  kingdom  between  his  own  sons  and  them.  His 
sons  received  Hastina-pura,  and  the  chief  city  given  to  his 
nephews  was  Indra-prastha  on  the  river  Yamuna,  close  to  the 
modern  Dellii,  where  the  name  still  survives.  The  close  proxi- 
mity of  Hastina-pura  and  Indra-prastha  shows  tliat  the  territory 
of  Dhrita-rash/ra  must  have  been  of  very  moderate  extent.  The 
reign  of  Yudhi-sli/hira  was  a  pattern  of  justice  and  wisdom. 
Having  conquered  many  countries,  he  announced  his  iirbention 
of  performing  the  Raja-suya  sacrifice,  thus  setting  up  a  claim  to 
universal  dominion,  or  at  least  to  be  a  king  over  kings.  Tliis 
excited  still  more  the  hatred  and  envy  of  the  sons  of  Dlwita- 
rfish^ra,  who  induced  their  father  to  invite  the  Pa??-f?avas  to 
Hastina-pura.  The  Kauravas  had  laid  their  jilot,  and  insidiously 
prevailed  upon  Yudhi-sh/liira  to  gamble.  His  opponent  was 
<Sakuni,  uncle  of  the  Kaurava  princes,  a  great  gambler  and  a 


MAHA-BHARATA.  187 

cheat.  Yiidhi-sli/liira  lost  his  all :  his  wealth,  his  palace,  his  king- 
dom, his  brothers,  himself,  and,  last  of  all,  their  wife.  Draiipadi 
was  brought  into  the  assembly  as  a  slave,  and  when  she  rushed 
out  she  was  dragged  back  again  by  her  hair  by  Du/i-6'asana,  an 
insult  for  which  Bhima  vowed  to  drink  his  blood.  Dur-yodhana 
also  insulted  her  by  seating  her  upon  his  thigh,  and  Bhima 
vowed  that  he  Avould  smash  that  thigh.  Eoth  these  vows  he 
afterwards  performed.  Through  the  interference  and  commands 
of  Dhrita-rash/ra  the  possessions  of  Yudhi-sh/hira  were  restored 
to  him.  Eut  he  was  once  more  tempted  to  play,  upon  the  con- 
dition that  if  he  lost  he  and  his  brothers  should  pass  twelve 
years  in  the  forest,  and  should  remain  incognito  during  the 
thirteenth  year.  He  was  again  the  loser,  and  retired  with  his 
brothers  and  wife  into  exile.  In  the  thirteenth  year  they  en- 
tered the  service  of  the  king  of  Vira/a  in  disguise — Yudhi-sh/hira 
as  a  Brahman  skilful  as  a  gamester ;  Bhima  as  a  cook ;  Arjuna 
as  a  eunuch  and  teacher  of  music  and  dancing;  Nakula  as  a 
horse-trainer ;  and  Saha-deva  as  a  herdsman.  Draupadi  also  took 
service  as  attendant  and  needlewoman  of  the  queen,  Su-desh«-a. 
The  five  princes  each  assumed  two  names,  one  for  use  among 
themselves  and  one  for  public  use.  Yudhi-sh/hira  was  Jaya  in 
private,  Kanka  in  public ;  Bhima  Avas  Jayanta  and  Ballava ; 
Arjuna  was  Vijaya  and  Brihan-nala ;  Nakula  was  J aya-sena  and 
Granthika;  Saha-deva  was  Jayad-bala  and  Arish/a-nemi,  aYaisya. 
The  beauty  of  Draupadi  attracted  Kichaka,  brother  of  the  queen, 
and  the  chief  man  in  the  kingdom.  He  endeavoured  to  seduce 
her,  and  Bhima  killed  him.  The  relatives  of  Kichaka  were  about 
to  burn  Draupadi  on  his  funeral  pile,  but  Bhima  appeared  as  a 
wild  Gandliarva  and  rescued  her.  The  brothers  grew  in  favour, 
and  rendered  great  assistance  to  the  king  in  repelling  the  attacks 
of  the  king  of  Trigartta  and  the  Kauravas.  The  time  of  exile  being 
expired,  the  princes  made  themselves  known,  and  Abhimanyu, 
son  of  Arjuna,  received  Uttara,  the  king's  daughter,  in  marriage. 
The  Paw6?avas  now  determined  to  attempt  the  recovery  of 
their  kingdom.  The  king  of  Yii^a/a  became  their  firm  ally,  and 
preparations  for  the  war  began.  Allies  were  sought  on  all  sides. 
Krishwa  and  Bala-rama,  being  relatives  of  both  parties,  were  re- 
luctant to  fight.  KrisliTia  conceded  to  Arjuna  and  Dur-yodhana 
the  choice  of  himself  unarmed  or  of  a  large  army.  Arjuna  chose 
Kr/sh?za  and  Dur-yodhana  joyfully  accepted  the  army.     K7ish72a 


i8S  MAHA-BHARA  ta. 

agreed  to  act  as  charioteer  of  liis  especial  friend  Arjuna.  It  was 
in  this  capacity  that  he  is  represented  to  have  spoken  the  divine 
song  Bhagavad-gita,  when  the  rival  armies  were  drawn  up  for 
battle  at  Kuru-kshetra,  a  plain  north  of  Dellii.  Many  battles 
follow.  The  army  of  Dur-yodliana  is  commanded  in  succession 
by  his  great-uncle  Bhishma,  Dro72a  his  military  preceptor,  Karwa, 
king  of  Anga,  and  ^Salya,  king  of  Madra  and  brother  of  JMadrl. 
Bhishma  was  wounded  by  Arjuna,  but  survived  for  a  time.  All 
the  others  fell  in  succession,  and  at  length  only  three  of  the 
Kuru  warriors — K?'/pa,  Aswatthaman,  and  K?'ita-varma — were 
left  alive  with  Dur-yodhana.  Bhima  and  Dur-yodliana  fought  in 
single  combat  with  maces,  and  Dur-yodhana  had  his  thigh  broken 
and  was  mortally  wounded.  The  three  surviving  Kauravas  fell 
by  night  upon  the  camp  of  the  Pawc^avas  and  destroyed  five 
cliildren  of  the  Pa7i(iavas,  and  all  the  army  except  the  five  bro- 
thers themselves.  These  five  boys  were  sons  of  Draupadi,  one 
by  each  of  the  five  brothers.  Yudhi-sh^hira's  son  was  Prati- 
vindliya,  Bhima's  Avas  /Sruta-soma,  Arjuna's  was  iSruta-kirtti, 
Xakula's  was  ^S'atanika,  and  Saha-deva's  was  /Sruta-karman. 
Yudhi-shifhira  and  his  brothers  then  went  to  Hastina-pura,  and 
after  a  reconcihation  with  Dhr/ta-rash/ra,  Yudhi-sh/hira  was 
crowned  there.  But  he  was  greatly  depressed  and  troubled  at 
the  loss  of  kindred  and  friends.  Soon  after  he  was  seated  on 
the  throne,  the  Aswa-medha  sacrifice  was  performed  with  great 
ceremony,  and  the  Pa?ic/avas  lived  in  peace  and  prosperity. 

The  old  blind  king  Dhrita-rash/ra  could  not  forget  or  forgive 
the  loss  of  his  sons,  and  mourned  especially  for  Dur-yodliana. 
Bitter  reproaches  and  taunts  passed  between  him  and  Bhima  ; 
at  length  he,  with  his  wife  Gandhiirl,  with  Kunti,  mother  of 
the  PaTiiZavas,  and  with  some  of  his  ministers,  retired  to  a 
hermitage  in  the  woods,  where,  after  two  years'  residence,  they 
perished  in  a  forest  fire.  Deep  sorrow  and  remorse  seized 
upon  the  Pawf/avas,  and  after  a  while  Yudhi-sh/hira  abdicated 
his  throne  and  departed  with  his  brothers  to  the  Himfdayas,  in 
order  to  reach  the  heaven  of  Indra  on  Mount  Meru.  A  dog 
followed  them  from  Hastina-pura.  The  story  of  this  journey  is 
full  of  grandeur  and  tenderness,  and  has  been  most  efi"ectively 
rendered  into  EngUsh  by  Professor  Goldstiicker.  Sins  and 
moral  defects  now  prove  fatal  to  the  pilgrims.  First  fell  Drau- 
padi :  "too  great  was  her  love  for  Arjuna."  Next  Saha-deva  : 
"he  esteemed  none  equal  to  himself."     Then  Nakula  :  "ever 


MAHA-BHARATA.  189 

was  the  thought  in  his  heart,  There  is  none  equal  in  beauty  to 
me."  Arjuna's  turn  came  next :  "In  one  day  I  could  destroy  all 
my  enemies."  "  Such  was  Arjuna's  boast,  and  he  falls,  for  he 
fulfilled  it  not."  '\\nien  Bhima  fell  he  inquired  the  reason  of  his 
fall,  and  he  was  told,  "When  thou  gazedst  on  thy  foe,  thou  hast 
cursed  him  with  thy  breath ;  therefore  thou  fallest  to-day." 
Yudhi-sh^hira  went  on  alone  with  the  dog  until  he  reached  the 
gate  of  heaven.  He  was  invited  by  Indra  to  enter,  but  he 
refused  unless  his  brothers  and  Draupadi  were  also  received. 
"  Not  even  into  thy  heaven  would  I  enter  if  they  were  not 
there."  He  is  assured  that  they  are  already  there,  and  is  again 
told  to  enter  "wearing  his  body  of  flesh."  He  again  refuses 
unless,  in  the  Avords  of  Pope,  "  admitted  to  that  equal  sky,  his 
faithful  dog  shall  bear  him  company."  Indra  expostulates  in 
vain.  "  j^ever,  come  weal  or  come  woe,  will  I  abandon  yon 
faithful  dog."  He  is  at  length  admitted,  but  to  his  dismay  he 
finds  there  Dur-yodhana  and  his  enemies,  but  not  his  brothers  or 
Draupadi.  He  refuses  to  remain  in  heaven  without  them,  and 
is  conducted  to  the  jaws  of  hell,  where  he  beholds  terrific  sights 
and  hears  wailings  of  grief  and  anguish.  He  recoils,  but  well- 
known  voices  implore  him  to  remain  and  assuage  their  sufferings. 
He  trium^Dhs  in  this  crowning  trial,  and  resolves  to  share  the 
fate  of  his  friends  in  hell  rather  than  abide  with  their  foes  in 
heaven.  Having  endured  this  supreme  test,  the  whole  scene  is 
shown  to  be  the  effect  of  mdija  or  illusion,  and  he  and  his  brothers 
and  friends  dAvell  with  Indra  in  full  content  of  heart  for  ever. 

Such  is  the  leading  story  of  the  Maha-bharata,  which  no 
doubt  had  a  basis  of  fact  in  the  old  Hindu  traditions.  Different 
poets  of  different  ages  have  added  to  it  and  embellished  it  by 
the  powers  of  their  imagination.  Great  additions  have  been 
made  in  later  times.  The  Bhagavad-gita  and  the  episode  of 
Kala,  with  some  others,  are  the  productions  of  later  writers  ;  the 
Hari-vansa,  which  affects  to  be  a  part  of  the  Maha-bharata,  is 
of  still  later  date,  and  besides  these,  it  cannot  be  doubted  that 
numerous  interpolations,  from  single  verses  to  long  passages,  have 
been  made  to  uphold  and  further  the  religious  opinions  of  sects  and 
individuals.  To  use  the  words  of  Max  Miiller,  "The  epic  character 
of  the  story  has  throughout  been  changed  and  almost  obliterated 
by  the  didactic  tendencies  of  the  latest  editors,  who  were  clearly 
Brahmans  brought  up  in  the  strict  school  of  the  laws  of  Manu." 

The  date  of  the  Maha-bharata  is  very  uncertain,  and  is  at  best 


1 90  MA  HA-BHARA  TA  . 

a  matter  of  conjecture  and  deduction.  As  a  compiled  \york  it  is 
generally  considered  to  be  about  a  century  later  in  date  than  the 
Ramaya?ia,  though  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  general  thread 
of  the  story,  and  the  incidents  directly  connected  with  it,  belong 
to  a  period  of  time  anterior  to  the  story  and  scenes  of  that  epic. 
The  fact  that  the  scene  of  the  Maha-bharata  is  in  Upper  India, 
while  that  of  the  Ramayawa  is  in  the  Dakhin  and  Ceylon,  is  of 
itself  sufficient  to  raise  a  strong  presumption  in  favour  of  the 
superior  antiquity  of  the  former.  TVeber  shows  that  the  Maha- 
bharata  was  known  to  Dion  Chrysostom  in  the  second  half  of  the 
first  century  a.d.  ;  and  as  Megasthenes,  who  was  in  India  about 
315  B.C.,  says  nothing  about  the  epic,  Weber's  hypothesis  is  that 
the  date  of  the  Maha-bharata  is  between  the  two.  Professor 
Williams  believes  that  "  the  earliest  or  pre-brahmanical  composi- 
tion of  both  epics  took  place  at  a  period  not  later  than  the  fifth 
century  B.C.,"  but  that  "the  first  orderly  completion  of  the  two 
poems  in  their  Brahmanised  form  may  have  taken  place  in  the 
case  of  the  Ramayawa  about  the  beginning  of  the  third  century 
B.C.,  and  in  the  case  of  the  Maha-bharata  still  later."  Lassen 
thinks  that  three  distinct  arrangements  of  the  Maha-bharata  are 
distinctly  traceable.  The  varied  contents  of  the  Maha-bharata 
and  their  disjointed  arrangement  afford  some  warrant  for  these 
opinions,  and  although  the  Ramayawa  is  a  compact,  continuous, 
and  complete  poem,  the  professed  work  of  one  author,  there  are 
several  recensions  extant  which  differ  considerably  from  eacli 
other.  Taking  a  wide  interval,  but  none  too  wide  for  a  matter  of 
such  great  uncertainty,  the  two  poems  may  be  considered  as  having 
assumed  a  complete  form  at  some  period  in  the  six  centuries  pre- 
ceding the  Christian  era,  and  that  the  Ramaya^za  had  the  priority. 
The  complete  text  of  the  Maha-bharata  has  been  twice  printed  in 
India,  and  a  complete  translation  in  French  by  Fauche  has  been 
interrupted  by  his  death.  But  M.  Fauche's  translations  are  not 
in  much  repute.  This  particular  one,  says  Weber,  "  can  only 
pass  for  a  translation  in  a  very  qualified  sense."  Many  episodes 
and  portions  of  the  poem  have  been  printed  and  translated.  The 
following  is  a  short  epitome  of  the  eighteen  books  of  the  Malia- 
bhiirata  : — 

I.  Adi-parva,  'Introductory  book.'  Describes  the  genealogy 
of  the  two  families,  the  birth  and  nurture  of  Dh?7'ta-rrish/ra  and 
Vimdu,  their  marriages,  the  births  of  the  hundred  sons  of  the 
former  and  the  five  of  the  latter,  the  enmity  and  rivalry  between 


MA  HA-BHARA  TA.  191 

the  young  princes  of  the  two  branches,  and  the  winning  of 
Draupadi  at  the  swayam-vara. 

2.  Sahha-;parvaj  'Assembly  book.'  The  assembly  of  the 
princes  at  Hastina-pura  when  Yudhi-sh/hira  lost  his  kingdom 
and  the  Pawc/avas  had  to  retire  into  exile. 

3.  Vana-parva,  '  Forest  chapter.'  The  life  of  the  Pa?i(;?avas  in 
the  Kamyaka  forest.  This  book  is  one  of  the  longest  and  con- 
tains many  episodes  :  among  them  the  story  of  IsTala,  and  an 
outline  of  the  story  of  the  Eamaya?ia. 

4.  Virdta-jmrva,  'Yira/a  chapter.'  Adventures  of  the  Paw?- 
avas  in  the  thirteenth  year  of  their  exile,  while  they  were  in  the 
service  of  King  Vira/a. 

5.  Udyoga-joarva,  'Effort  book.'  The  preparations  of  both 
sides  for  war. 

6.  BMshma-parva,  'Book  of  Bhishma.'  The  battles  fought 
while  Bhishma  commanded  the  Kaurava  army. 

7.  Drona-parva,  'The  Book  of  Dro?za.'  Dro?ia'"s  command  of 
the  Kaurava  army. 

8.  Kariia-jjarva,  '  Book  of  Karwa.'  Karwa's  command  and  his 
death  at  the  hands  of  Arjuna. 

9.  Salya-parva,  'Book  of  jS'alya.'  ^Salya's  command,  in  which 
Dur-yodhana  is  mortally  wounded  and  only  three  Kauravas  are 
left  alive. 

10.  Sauptihi-parva,  'Nocturnal  book.'  The  night  attack  of 
the  three  surviving  Kauravas  on  the  Pa7ic?ava  camp. 

11.  Stn-jMTva,  'Book  of  the  women.'  The  lamentations  of 
Queen  Gandliari  and  the  women  over  the  slain. 

12.  Sdnti-parva,  'Book  of  consolation.'  A  long  and  diffuse 
didactic  discourse  by  Bhishma  on  the  morals  and  duties  of  kings, 
intended  to  assuage  the  grief  of  Yudhi-sh/hira. 

13.  Anusdsana-parva,  'Book  of  precepts.'  A  continuation  of 
Bhishma's  discourses  and  his  death. 

14.  A^wa-medhika-parva,  '  Book  of  the  Aswa-medha.'  Yudlii- 
sh/hira's  performance  of  the  horse  sacrifice. 

15.  A^raraa-parva,  'Book  of  the  hermitage.'  The  retirement 
of  Dhrita-rash/ra,  Gandhari,  and  KuntI  to  a  hermitage  in  the 
woods,  and  their  death  in  a  forest  fire. 

16.  Mausala-parva,  'Book  of  the  clubs.'  The  death  of 
Kr/slma  and  Bala-rama,  the  submersion  of  Dwaraka  by  the  sea, 
and  the  mutual  destruction  of  the  Yadavas  in  a  fight  with  clubs 
(musala)  of  miraculous  origin. 


192 


MAHA-BHARA  ta. 


17.  Mahd-prasthdmka~parva,  'Book  of  the  great  journey.' 
Yiidhi-sh/liira's  abdication  of  the  throne,  and  his  departure  with 
his  brothers  towards  the  Himalayas  on  their  way  to  Indra's 
heaven  on  Mount  INIeru. 

18.  Swargdrohcma-parva,  'Book  of  the  ascent  to  heaven.' 
Entrance  into  heaven  of  Yudhi-sh/hira  and  his  brothers,  and  of 
their  wife  Draupadi. 

The  Hari-va?2sa  (q.v.),  detailing  the  genealogy,  birth,  and  life 
of  Kr/shwa  at  great  length,  is  a  supplement  of  much  later  date. 

GENEALOGY  OF  THE  KAURAVAS  AND  PAi\rx>AVAS. 

Atri,  tlie  i^i'shi. 

I 
Soma  (Chandra  or  Indu),  the  Moon. 


Bud  ha. 
1 

-      1 
Ayu. 

1 

1 
Nahusha. 

1 

1 
DevayanI  +  Yayati  +  ^ 

jarmish^ha. 

Yddavas. 

! 
Puru  (and  two  other  sons). 

Yadu  (and  another  son). 

1 

1         Pauravas. 
Dushyanta  +  /Sakuntala. 

Yrkhni. 

1 

Bharata. 

Devarata. 

1 
Hastin. 

Andhaka. 

1 

Kuru. 

^ura. 

1 

Vasudeva. 


Kunti. 


Kj'ishna.  Bala-rama. 

(Line  extinct.) 


Ambika. 


Dh?'ita-ra.sh^ra  +  Gandhari. 
I 


Ganga  +  -Santanu  +  Satyavati. 


Bhishma.     [  | 

Chitrangada.  Vichitra-vlrya, 


Vyasa  +  the  two  widows  of 
Vichitra-vlrya. 
Ambalika. 


-KuntI  +  PaucZu  +  Madri. 


Dur-yodhana  and       Kama.  ]  I 

99  other  sons.  I  I 

Yudhi-shthira.  Blilma.  Arjuna.  Nakula.  Saha-deva. 

I 
Abhimanyu. 

.  I 
Parikshit. 

I 
Janamejaya. 

{See  Chandra- vansa  for  the  intervening  and  following  names.) 


MA  HA-  BHASH  YA—MA  HARAJIKA  S.  193 

MAIIA-BHASHYA.  A  commentary  by  Patanjali  on  the 
Grammar  of  Pamni,  in  answer  to  the  criticisms  of  Katyayana. 
A  fine  2Dhoto-lithographed  edition  has  been  produced,  under  the 
superintendence  of  Professor  Goldstiicker,  at  the  expense  of  the 
Indian  Government.  The  work  has  received  a  long  notice  in 
Weber's  Indische  Studien,  vol,  xiii.,  and  has  been  the  subject  of 
much  discussion  in  the  Indian  Antiquary.  Other  editions  have 
appeared  in  India. 

MAHA-BHOJA.     See  Bhoja. 

MAHA-DEVA.  '  The  great  god.'  A  name  of  /Siva.  One 
of  the  Eudras. 

MAHA-DEYl.  '  The  great  goddess.'  A  name  of  Devi,  the 
wife  of  iS'iva.     See  Devi. 

MAHA-KALA.  *  Great  Time.'  i.  A  name  of  >Siva  in  his 
destructive  character.  [See  /Siva.)  2.  One  of  the  twelve  great 
Lingas.  {See  Linga.)  3.  In  the  caves  of  Elephanta  this  form  of 
/Siva  is  represented  with  eight  arms.  In  one  hand  he  holds  a 
human  figure  ;  in  another,  a  sword  or  sacrificial  axe ;  in  a  third, 
a  basin  of  blood ;  in  a  fourth,  the  sacrificial  bell ;  with  two  he 
is  drawing  behind  him  the  veil  which  extinguishes  the  sun ;  and 
two  are  broken  off.    4.  Chief  of  the  Ga?^as  or  attendants  on  /Siva. 

MAHA-KAVYAS.  'Great  poems.'  Six  are  classified  under 
this  title: — (i.)  Raghu-van.sa ;  (2)  Kumara-sambhava  ;  (3.) 
Megha-diita  ;  (4.)  Kiratarjuniya  ;  (5.)  /Sisupala-badlia  ;  (6.) 
Naishadha-charitra. 

MAHA-MAYA.     See  Maya. 

MAHA-^UIAKA.  'The  great  drama.'  The  Hanuman- 
na^^aka  (q.v.). 

MAHA-PADMA  NANDA.  The  last  of  the  Nanda  dynasty. 
See  Chandra-gupta. 

MAHA-PRALAYA.  A  total  dissolution  of  the  universe  at 
the  end  of  a  kalpa,  when  the  seven  lokas  and  their  inhabitants, 
men,  saints,  gods,  and  Brahma  himself,  are  annihilated.  Called 
also  Jahrmaka,  Kshiti,  and  Sanhara. 

MAHA-PURAiVAS.  'The  great  PurS?2as.'  The  Vishwu 
and  the  Bhagavata,  the  two  great  Pura^zas  of  the  Yaishnavas. 

MAHA-PURUSHA.  '  The  great  or  supreme  male ; '  the 
supreme  spirit.     A  name  of  Yish?m. 

IMAHARAJIKAS.  A  Gawa  or  class  of  inferior  deities,  236 
or  220  in  number. 


194  MAHAR—MAINAKA. 

MAHAR.     See  Yyah?7'ti. 

MAHA-RASH  JRA.     The  land  of  the  Mahrattas. 

MAHAR-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

MAHARSHIS  (Maha-rishis).  'Great  i?ishis.'  The  great 
jR/shis  or  Prajapatis.     See  it/shi. 

MAHA-SEXA-  'The  great  captain.'  A  name  of  Kartikeya, 
god  of  war. 

MAHAT.  The  great  intellect  produced  at  the  creation. 
See  Vishnu  Purawa,  i.  29. 

MAHATMYA.  'Mamanimitv.'  A  lec^end  of  a  shrine  or 
other  holy  place. 

MAHA-YIRA  CHARITA.  '  The  exploits  of  the  gi-eat  hero 
(Rama).'  A  drama  by  Bhava-bhiiti,  translated  into  English  by 
Pickford  There  are  several  editions  of  the  text.  "  The  situa- 
tions and  sentiments  of  this  drama  are  of  a  stirring  and  martial 
description,  and  the  language  is  adapted  with  singular  felicity  to 
the  subject  from  which  it  springs." — WiUon. 

MAHA-YOGL     '  The  great  ascetic'     A  name  of  /S'iva. 

MAHA-YUGA.  A  great  Yuga  or  age,  consisting  of 
4,320,000  years.     See  Yuga. 

MAHEXDRA.  A  name  of  Indra.  One  of  the  seven  moun- 
tain ranges  of  India  ;  the  hills  wdiich  run  from  Gondwana  to 
Orissa  and  the  Northern  Circars.     See  Kula-parvatas. 

MAHE.SWARA.     A  name  of  .S'iva. 

MAHE^WARA  PURAiVA.     See  Pura;^a. 

MAHISHA,  MAHISHASURA.  i.  The  great  Asura  or  de- 
mon killed  by  Skanda  in  the  Maha-bharata.  {See  Krauncha.) 
2.  Also  a  demon  killed  by  ChawfZa  or  Durga. 

MAHISHMATi,  MAHISHMATl.  The  capital  of  Karta- 
virya,  king  of  the  Talajanghas,  who  had  a  thousand  arms.  It 
has  been  identified  by  Colonel  Tod  witli  the  village  of  Chuli 
INIahe.swar,  which,  according  to  him,  is  still  called  "  the  village 
of  the  thousand-armed." 

MAHODAYA.     A  name  of  the  city  of  Kanauj. 

MAHORAGA  (Maha  +  uraga).  '  Great  serpent.'  The  serpent 
*S'eslia,  or  any  othey  great  serpent. 

MAIXAKA.  A  mountain  stated  in  the  IMahri-bliarata  to  be 
north  of  Kailasa ;  so  called  as  being  the  son  of  Himavat  and  ]\le- 
naka.  When,  as  the  poets  sing,  Indra  clipped  the  wings  of  the 
mountains,  this  is  said  to  have  been  the  only  one  which  escaped. 


MAITREYA—MALINA-MUKHA.  195 

This  mountain,  according  to  some,  stands  in  Central  India,  and, 
according  to  others,  near  the  extremity  of  the  Peninsula. 

MAITREYA.  A  i^ishi,  son  of  Kusarava,  and  disciple  of 
Parasara.  He  is  one  of  the  interlocutors  in  the  Vishmi  and 
Bhac:avata  Purawas. 

MAITREYI.  Wife  of  the  jRishi  Yajnawalkya,  who  was  in- 
doctrinated by  her  husband  in  the  mysteries  of  religion  and 
philosophy. 

MAITRI,  MAITRAYAA^I.  An  Upanishad  of  the  Black 
Yajur-veda.  It  has  been  edited  and  translated  by  Professor 
Cowell  for  the  Bihliotheca  Indica. 

MAKANDI.  A  city  on  the  Ganges,  the  capital  of  Southern 
Panchala. 

MAKARA.  A  huge  sea  animal,  which  has  been  taken  to  be 
the  crocodile,  the  shark,  the  dolphin,  &c.,  but  is  probably  a 
fabulous  animal.  It  represents  the  sign  Capricornus  in  the 
Hindu  zodiac,  and  is  depicted  with  the  head  and  forelegs  of 
an  antelope  and  the  body  and  tail  of  a  fisk  It  is  the  vehicle 
of  Varu?ia,  the  god  of  the  ocean,  and  its  figure  is  borne  on  the 
banner  of  Kama-deva,  god  of  love.  It  is  also  called  Ka?i/aka, 
Asita-dansh/ra,  '  black  teeth,'  and  Jala-riipa,  '  water  form.' 

MAKAKAS.     The  five  m's.     See  Tantra. 

MAKHAVAT.     A  name  of  Indra. 

MALATI-MADHAVA  (MalatI  and  Madhava).  A  drama  by 
Bhava-bhuti,  translated  by  Wilson.  "This  drama,"  says  the 
translator,  "  off'ers  nothing  to  offend  the  most  fastidious  dehcacy, 
and  may  be  compared  in  this  respect  advantageously  with  many 
of  the  dramas  of  modern  Europe  which  treat  of  the  passion  (of 
love)  that  constitutes  its  subject," 

MALAYA.     The  country  of  Malwa. 

MALAYIKAGXIMITRA  (Malavika  and  Agnimitra).  A 
drama  ascribed  to  Kali-dasa,  and  although  inferior  to  his  other 
productions,  it  is  probably  his  work.  The  text,  with  a  translation, 
has  been  published  by  Tullberg.  There  is  a  German  translation 
by  Weber,  an  English  one  by  Tawney,  and  a  French  one  by 
Poucaux.     The  text  has  been  printed  at  Bombay  and  Calcutta. 

MALAYA.  The  country  of  Malabar  proper ;  the  moun- 
tains bordering  Malabar.     See  Kula-parvatas. 

MALINA-MUKHA.  '  Black  faced.'  Eakshasas  and  other 
demons,  represented  as  having  black  faces. 


1 96  J  A ILINI—MA  NBA  -KA  RNI. 

MALINI.  '  SuiToimded  with  a  garland  {rndla) '  of  Champa 
trees.     A  name  of  the  city  of  Champa. 

MALLIKARJU:N'A.  a  name  of  iS^iva.  One  of  the  twelve 
great  Lingas.     See  Linga. 

MALLIXATBA..  A  poet,  and  author  of  commentaries  of 
great  repute  on  several  of  the  great  poems,  as  the  Raghu-vansa, 
Megha-duta,  /Sisupala-badha,  &c. 

MAX  AS  A.  '  The  intellectual.'  A  name  of  the  supreme  being. 
Thus  defined  in  the  Maha-bharata :  "  The  primeval  god,  with- 
out beginning  or  dissolution,  indivisible,  undecaying,  and  im- 
mortal, who  is  known  and  called  by  great  ii/shis  Manasa." 

MAXASA,  MAXASA-SAROVARA.  The  lake  Manasa  in 
the  Himalayas.  In  the  Vayu  Purawa  it  is  stated  that  when  the 
ocean  fell  from  heaven  upon  Mount  Meru,  it  ran  four  times 
round  the  mountain,  then  it  divided  into  four  rivers  which  ran 
down  the  mountain  and  formed  four  great  lakes,  Aruwoda  on  the 
east,  Sitoda  on^the  west,  Maha-bhadra  on  the  north,  and  Manasa 
on  the  south.  According  to  the  mythological  account,  the  river 
Ganges  flows  out  of  it,  but  in  reality  no  river  issues  from  this 
lake,  though  the  river  Satlej  flows  from  another  and  larger  lake 
called  Ravawa-hrada,  which  lies  close  to  the  west  of  Manasa. 

MAXASA,  MAXASA-DEYl.  Sister  of  the  serpent  king 
♦S'esha,  and  wife  of  the  sage  Jarat-karu.  She  is  also  called  Jagad- 
gaurl,  Xitya  (eternal),  and  Padmavati.  She  had  special  power 
in  counteracting  the  venom  of  serpents,  and  was  hence  called 
Visha-hara. 

MAXASA-PUTRAS.  '  Mind  (born)  sons.'  The  seven  or  ten 
mind-born  sons  of  Brahma.     See  Prajapati. 

MAXAS-TALA.     The  lion  on  which  Devi  rides. 

MAXAYA  DHARMA-aS'ASTRA.  The  code  of  Manu.  See 
Manu  Sanhita. 

MAXAVA  KALPA-SUTRA.  Manu's  work  on  Vaidik  rites. 
Part  of  it  has  been  published  in  facsimile  by  Goldstiicker. 

MAXAVA  PURAiVA.     See  Purawa. 

MAXAVi.     The  wife  of  Manu.     Also  called  IManayl. 

MAXDA-KARYI.  A  sage  who  dwelt  in  the  Dam^aka  forest, 
and  is  said  in  the  Ramiiyawa  to  have  formed  a  lake  which  was 
known  by  his  name.  His  austerities  alarmed  tlie  gods,  and 
Indra  sent  five  Apsarases  to  beguile  him  from  his  penance  of 
"  standing  in  a  pool  and  feeding  on  nothing  but  air  for  10,000 


MA  NDAKINI—MANDHA  TRI.  i  97 

years."  They  succeeded,  and  became  his  wives,  and  inhabited  a 
house  concealed  in  the  lake,  which,  from  them,  was  called  Pan- 
chapsaras. 

MANDAKINL  The  heavenly  Ganges.  The  Ganges.  An 
arm  of  the  Ganges  wliich  iBiows  through  Kediira-natha.  A  river 
near  the  mountain  Chitra-kii/a  (q.v.)  in  Bundelkhand.  It  was 
near  the  abode  of  Rama  and  Sita,  and  is  mentioned  both  in  the 
Ramayawa  and  Maha-bharata.  It  would  seem  to  be  the  modern 
Pisuni. 

MAiV7)ALA.  'A  circle,  orb.'  A  circuit  or  territorial  division, 
as  Chola-ma726?ala,  i.e.,  CoromandeL  According  to  one  arrange- 
ment, the  Sanhita  of  the  iiig-veda  is  divided  into  ten  Ma7if/alas. 

MAi\^i)ALA-Xi^/TYA.  A  circular  dance.  The  dance  of 
the  Gopis  round  Krishwa  and  Radha. 

MANDA-PALA.  A  childless  saint,  who,  according  to  the 
Maha-bharata,  after  long  perseverance  in  devotion  and  asceticism, 
died  and  went  to  the  abode  of  Yama.  His  desires  being  still 
unsatisfied,  he  inquired  the  cause,  and  was  told  that  all  his 
devotions  had  failed  because  he  had  no  son,  no  ])uh'aj  {'put, 
*  hell,'  tra,  '  drawer  '),  to  save  him  from  hell.  He  then  assumed 
the  form  of  a  species  of  bird  called  /Sarngika,  and  by  a  female 
of  that  species,  who  was  called  •  Jarita,  he  had  four  sons. 

MANDARA.  The  great  mountain  which  the  gods  used  for 
the  churning  of  the  ocean.  It  is  supposed  to  be  the  mountain 
so  named  in  Bhagalpur,  which  is  held  sacred.  See  Kiirma- 
avatara,  under  Avatara. 

IMANDAYl.  Daughter  of  Ku5a-dhwaja,  cousin  of  Sita,  and 
wife  of  Rama's  brother  Bharata. 

MANDEHAS.  A  class  of  terrific  Rakshasas,  who  were  hos- 
tile to  the  sun  and  endeavoured  to  devour  him. 

MANDHATi^/.  A  king,  son  of  Yuvanaswa,  of  the  race  of 
Ikshwaku,  and  author  of  a  hymn  in  the  it/g-veda.  The  Hari- 
vansa  and  some  of  the  Purawas  make  Mandhat^'i  to  have  been 
born  in  a  natural  way  from  his  mother  Gauri,  but  the  Yishwu 
and  Bhagavata  Pura?ias  tell  an  extraordinary  story  about  his 
birth,  which  is  probably  based  upon  a  forced  derivation  of  his 
name.  Yuvanaswa  had  no  son,  which  gTieved  him  much. 
Some  holy  sages  near  whom  he  lived  instituted  a  religious  rite 
to  procure  progeny  for  him.  One  night  they  placed  a  conse- 
crated vessel  of  water  upon  an  altar  as  part  of  their  ceremony, 


198  mandodarI—manthara. 

and  the  water  became  endowed  with,  prolific  energy.  Yuvan- 
aswa  woke  up  in  the  night  thirsty,  and  finding  the  water,  he 
drank  it.  So  he  conceived,  and  in  due  time  a  child  came  forth 
from  his  right  side.  The  sages  then  asked  who  would  suckle 
the  child,  whereupon  Indra  appeared,  gave  his  finger  for  the 
child  to  suck,  and  said,  "  He  shall  suck  me,"  mam  ayam  dhds- 
yati.  These  words  were  contracted,  and  the  boy  was  named 
Mandhatri.  When  he  grew  up  he  had  three  sons  and  fifty 
daughters.  An  old  sage  named  Saubhari  came  to  Mandhatri 
and  asked  that  one  might  be  given  him  to  wife.  Unwilling 
to  crive  one  to  so  old  and  emaciated  a  man,  but  vet  afraid  to 
refuse,  the  king  temporised,  but  at  length  yielded  to  the  sage's 
request  that  the  matter  might  be  left  to  the  choice  of  the  girls. 
Saubhari  then  assumed  a  handsome  form,  and  there  was  such 
a  contention  for  him  that  he  had  to  marry  the  whole  fifty, 
and  he  provided  for  them  a  row  of  crystal  palaces  in  a  most 
beautiful  garden. 

MANDODARl.  Rava7za's  favourite  wife  and  the  mother  of 
Indra-jit. 

MAiVi^UKEYA.  A  teacher  of  the  ii/g-veda,  who  derived 
his  knowledge  from  his  father,  Indra-pramati. 

MAiVDUKYA.  J^ame  of  an  Upanishad  translated  by  Dr. 
Roer  in  the  Bihliofheca  Indica. 

MAXGALA.  The  planet  Mars,  identified  with  Kartikeya, 
the  god  of  war.  He  was  son  of  Siysl  and  the  Earth,  and  as  son 
of  the  Earth  is  called  Angaraka,  Bhauma,  Bhiimi-putra,  Mahl- 
suta.  He  is  also  called  6'iva-gharma-ja,  '  born  of  the  sweat  of 
>S'iva  ;'  Gaganolmuka,  '  the  torch  ,of  the  sky  ; '  Lohita,  'the  red  ; ' 
Navarchi,  '  the  nine-rayed ; '  Chara,  'the  spy;'  Tt/Viantaka,  'ender 
of  debts,  patron  of  debtors.'     See  Kartikeya, 

MAiYI-BHADRA.  The  chief  of  the  Yakshas  and  guardian 
of  travellers. 

MAiVIMAT.     A  Rakshasa  slain  by  Bhima. 

MAA^I-PURA,  A  city  on  the  sea-coast  of  Kalinga,  where 
Babhru-vahana,  the  son  of  Arjuna,  dwelt.  AAHieeler  identifies  it 
Avith  the  modern  Munnipur  or  Muneepore,  east  of  Bengal ;  but 
this  is  very  questionable. 

MANMATHA.     A  name  of  Kama,  god  of  love. 

MANTHARA.  An  ugly  deformed  slave,  nurse  of  Queen 
Kaikeyi,  who  stirred  up  her  mistress's  jealousy  against  Rama- 


MANTRA— MANU.  199 

cliaiidra,  and  led  her  to  persuade  King  Da,9a-ratha  to  banish 
Rama  from  court.  /S^atru-ghna  beat  her  and  threatened  to  kill 
her,  but  she  was  saved  by  his  brother  Bharata. 

MANTRA.     That   portion  of  the  Yeda  which   consists  of 
hymns,  as  distinct  from  the  BrahmaTias.     See  Veda. 

MANU.  (From  the  root  man,  to  think.)  '  The  man.'  This 
name  belongs  to  fourteen  mythological  progenitors  of  mankind 
and  rulers  of  the  earth,  each  of  whom  holds  sway  for  the  period 
called  a  Manwantara  [manu-antara),  the  age  of  a  Manu,  i.e.,  a 
period  of  no  less  than  4,320,000  years.  The  first  of  these  Manus 
was  Swayam-bhuva,  who  sprang  from  Swayam-blm,  the  self- 
existent.  The  self-existent,  as  identified  with  Brahma  the 
creator,  divided  himself  into  two  persons,  male  and  female. 
From  this  pair  was  produced  the  male  Viraj,  and  from  him 
sprang  the  Manu  Swayam-bhuva.  As  the  acting  creator,  this 
Manu  produced  the  ten  Prajapatis  or  progenitors  of  mankind, 
called  also  Maharshis  (mahd-rishis).  According  to  another  ac- 
count, this  Manu  sprang  from  the  incestuous  intercourse  of 
Brahma  with  his  daughter  and  wife,  xS'ata-riipa*  Brahma  created 
himself  Manu,  "  born  of  and  identical  with  his  original  self,  and 
the  female  portion  of  himself  he  constituted  AS'ata-riipa,"  whom 
Manu  took  to  wife.  The  law-book  commonly  known  as  Manu  is 
ascribed  to  this  Manu,  and  so  also  is  a  Siitra  work  on  ritual  bear- 
ing the  same  name.  The  Manu  of  the  present  age  is  the  seventh, 
named  Yaivaswata,  'sun-born,'  who  was  the  son  of  Vivaswat,  the 
sun,  and  he  is  a  Kshatriya  by  race.  He  is  also  called  Satya-vrata, 
There  are  various  legends  about  his  having  been  saved  from  a 
great  flood  by  Vishmi  or  Brahma.  The  names  of  the  fourteen 
Manus  are — (i.)  Swayam-bhuva,  (2.)  Swarochisha,  (3,)  Auttami, 
(4.)  Tamasa,  (5.)  Raivata,  (6.)  Chiikshusha,  (7.)  Vaivaswata  or 
Satya-vrata,  (8.)  Savarwa,  (9.)  Daksha-savarwa,  (10.)  Brahma- 
savarTza,  (11.)  Dharma-savarwa,  (12.)  SavarTza  or  Rudra-savarwa, 
(13.)  Rauchya,  (14.)  Bhautya, 

The  sons  of  Manu  Yaivaswata  were — Ikshw^aku,  Nabhaga  or 
N?'iga,  Dh?'zsh^a,  jS'aryati,  Narishyanta,  Pran,su,  Nabhaganedish/a 
or  Nabhanedish/a,  Kariisha,  and*Pnshadhra.  But  there  is  some 
variety  in  the  names. 

With  the  seventh  Manu,  Yaivaswata,  is  connected  the  very 
curious  and  interesting  legend  of  the  deluge.  The  first  account 
of  this  is  found  in  the  ^S'atapatha  Brahma?za,  of  which  the  fol- 


200  MANU. 

lowing  is  a  summary : — One  morning,  in  the  water  which  was 
brought  to  Manu  for  washing  his  hands,  he  caught  a  fish  which 
spake,  and  said,  "  Take  care  of  me  and  I  will  preserve  thee," 
Manu  asked,  "  From  what  wilt  thou  preserve  me  ? "  The  fish 
answered,  "  A  flood  will  carry  away  all  living  beings  ;  I  will  save 
thee  from  that."  The  fish  desired  Manu  to  keep  him  alive  in 
an  earthen  vessel,  to  remove  him  to  a  dyke  as  he  grew  larger, 
and  eventually  to  the  ocean,  "  so  that  he  might  be  beyond  the 
risk  of  destruction."  The  fish  grew  rapidly,  and  again  addressed 
Manu,  saying,  "  After  so  many  years  the  deluge  will  take  j^lace; 
then  construct  a  ship  and  pay  me  homage,  and  when  the  waters 
rise,  go  into  the  ship  and  I  will  rescue  thee."  Manu  did  as  he 
was  desired,  he  built  the  ship,  conveyed  the  fish  to  the  ocean, 
and  did  him  homage.  The  flood  rose,  and  Manu  fastened  the 
cable  of  the  ship  to  the  fish's  horn.  Thus  he  passed  over  the 
northern  mountain  (the  Himalaj^a,  as  the  commentator  explains). 
The  fish  then  desired  Manu  to  fasten  the  ship  to  a  tree,  and  to 
go  down  with  the  subsiding  waters.  He  did  so,  and  found  that 
the  flood  had  swept  away  all  living  creatures.  He  alone  was 
left  Desirous  of  offspring,  he  offered  sacrifice  and  engaged  in 
devotion.  A  woman  was  produced,  who  came  to  Manu  and 
declared  herself  his  daughter.  "  With  her  he  lived,  worshipping 
and  toiling  in  arduous  religious  rites,  desirous  of  offspring.  With 
her  he  begat  the  offspring  which  is  the  offspring  of  Manu." 

The  story,  as  told  in  the  Maha-bharata,  represents  Manu  as 
engaged  in  devotion  by  the  side  of  a  river,  and  the  fish  craving 
his  protection  from  the  bigger  fisli.  Manu  placed  the  fish  in  a 
glass  vase,  but  it  grew  larger  and  larger  till  tlie  ocean  alone  could 
contain  it.  Then  it  warned  IManu  of  the  coming  flood,  and 
directed  him  to  build  a  shij:)  and  to  embark  with  the  seven 
jKishis.  He  did  so,  and  fastened  liis  ship  to  the  horn  of  the  fish. 
Then,  according  to  the  rendering  of  Professor  Williams — 

"  Along  the  ocean  in  that  stately  ship  was  borne  the  lord  of  men, 

and  through 
Its  dancing,  tumbling  billows  and  its  roaring  waters  ;  and  the 

bark. 
Tossed  to  and  fro  by  violent  winds,  reeled  on  the  surface  of  the 

deep. 
Staggering  and  trembling  like  a  drunken  woman  :  land  was  seen 

no  more, 


MANU—MANU-SANHITA.  201 

Nor  far  horizon,  nor  the  space  between  ;  for  everjwhere  around 

Spread  the  wild  waste  of  waters,  reeking  atmosphere,  and  bound- 
less sky. 

And  now,  when  all  the  world  was  deluged,  nought  appeared  above 
the  waves 

But  Manu  and  the  seven  sages,  and  the  fish  that  drew  the  bark. 

Unwearied  thus  for  years  on  years  that  fish  pulled  on  the  ship 
across 

The  heaped-up  waters,  till  at  length  it  bore  the  vessel  to  the  peak 

Of  Himavan  ;  then,  softly  smiling,  thus  the  fish  addressed  the 
sage  : 

^  Haste  now  to  bind  thy  ship  to  this  high  crag.  Know  me,  the  lord 
of  all, 

The  great  creator  Brahma,  mightier  than  all  might,  omnipotent. 

By  me,  in  fish-like  shape,  have  you  been  saved  in  dire  emergency. 

From  Manu  all  creation,  gods,  Asuras,  men,  must  be  produced  ; 

By  him  the  world  must  be  created,  that  which  moves  and  moveth 
not.'" 

The  commentators  on  this  legend  of  the  Malia-bharata  give  a 
metaphysical  turn  to  the  legend,  and  endeavour  to  illustrate  it  by 
pliilosophical  and  allegorical  interpretations.  The  same  story  is 
reproduced  with  variations  in  the  Matsya,  Bhagavata,  and  Agni 
Pura?2as,  and  Muir  has  given  translations  of  the  passages  in 
voL  i.  of  his  Sanshrit  Texts. 

In  the  Eamayawa  mention  is  made  of  a  female  IManu,  and 
it  appears  that  the  word  is  sometimes  used  for  "  the  wife  of 
JManu." 

MANU-SANHITA.  The  well-known  law-book,  the  Code 
of  Manu,  or  Institutes  of  ]\Ianu.  It  is  attributed  to  the  first 
Manu,  Swayam-bhuva,  who  existed  nearly  thirty  millions  of  years 
ago,  but  it  bears  the  marks  of  being  the  production  of  more  than 
one  mind.  This  is  the  first  and  chief  of  the  ^A'orks  classified  as 
Sniriti,  and  is  a  collection  or  digest  of  current  laws  and  creeds 
rather  than  a  planned  systematic  code.  It  is  the  foundation  of 
Hindu  law,  and  is  held  in  the  highest  reverence.  The  w^ork 
belongs  to  aj  period  later  than  that  of  the  Vedas,  when  the 
Brahmans  had  obtained  the  ascendancy,  but  its  deities  are 
those  of  the  Yedic  rather  than  the  Epic  or  Pura?zic  age.  It  is 
apparently  anterior  to  the  philosophical  schools.  The  fifth  cen- 
tury B.C.  is  supposed  to  be  about  the  time  when  it  was  composed, 
but  the  rules  and  precepts  it  contains  had  probably  existed  as 


202  MANIVANTARA—MARISHA. 

traditions  long  before.  It  is  commonly  called  the  Code  of  Manu, 
and  was  current  among  the  Manavas,  a  class  or  school  of  Brah- 
mans  who  were  followers  of  the  Elack  Yajur-veda;  but  it  deals 
with  many  subjects  besides  law,  and  is  a  most  important  record 
of  old  Hindu  society.  It  is  said  to  have  consisted  originally  of 
100,000  verses,  arranged  in  twenty-four  chapters;  that  Xarada 
shortened  the  work  to  12,000  verses;  and  that  Sumati  made  a 
second  abridgment,  reducing  it  to  4000,  but  only  2685  are  extant. 
It  is  evident  that  there  was  more  than  one  redaction  of  the  laws 
of  the  Manavas,  for  a  Brihan  or  Yrihan  Manu,  'great  Manu,'  and 
Vriddha  Manu,  '  old  Manu,'  are  often  referred  to.  Sir  W.  Jones's 
translation,  edited  by  Haughton,  is  excellent,  and  is  the  basis  of  all 
others  in  French,  German,  &c.     The  text  has  often  been  printed. 

MA:N'WANTARA  (Manu-antara).  The  life  or  period  of  a 
Manu,  4,320,000  years. 

MARICHA.  A  Rakshasa,  son  of  Taraka.  According  to  the 
KamayaTia  he  interfered  with  a  sacrifice  which  was  being  per- 
formed by  Yiswamitra,  but  was  encountered  by  Eama,  who 
discharged  a  weapon  at  him,  which  drove  him  one  hundred 
yojanas  out  to  sea.  He  was  afterwards  the  minister  of  Rava-^a, 
and  accompanied  him  to  the  hermitage  where  Rama  and  Sita 
were  dwelling.  There,  to  inveigle  Rama,  he  assumed  the  shape 
of  a  golden  deer,  which  Rama  pursued  and  killed.  On  receiv- 
ing his  death-wound  he  resumed  a  Rilkshasa  form  and  spake, 
and  Rama  discovered  whom  he  had  killed.  In  the  meanwhile 
Ravawa  had  carried  off  Sita. 

MARICHI.  Chief  of  the  Maruts.  Name  of  one  of  the 
Prajapatis.  {See  Prajiipati.)  He  is  sometimes  represented  as 
springing  direct  from  Brahma.  He  was  father  of  Ka^yapa,  and 
one  of  the  seven  great  it/shis.     See  itishi. 

MARISHA.  Daughter  of  the  sage  Kaw(7u,  and  wife  of  the 
Prachetasas,  but  from  the  mode  of  her  birth  she  is  called 
"  the  nursling  of  the  trees,  and  daughter  of  the  wind  and  the 
moon."  She  was  mother  of  Daksha.  Her  motlier  was  a  celestial 
nymph  named  Pramlocha,  who  beguiled  the  sage  Iva??f?u  from 
his  devotions  and  lived  with  liim  for  a  long  time.  When  the 
sage  awoke  from  his  voluptuous  delusion,  he  drove  her  from  his 
presence.  "  She,  passing  through  the  air,  wiped  the  perspira- 
tion from  her  with  the  leaves  of  the  trees,"  and  "  the  child  she 
had  conceived  by  the  7?ishi  came  forth  from  the  pores  of  her  skiu 


MARKANDEYA—MARKANDEYA  PURANA.      203 

in  drops  of  perspiration.  The  trees  received  the  living  dews, 
and  the  winds  collected  them  into  one  mass.  Soma  matured 
this  by  his  rays,  and  gradually  it  increased  in  size  till  the  ex- 
halations that  had  rested  on  the  tree-tops  became  the  lovely 
girl  named  Marisha." — Vishnu  Purdna.  According  to  the  same 
authority  Marisha  had  been  in  a  former  birth  the  childless 
widow  of  a  king.  Her  devotion  to  Vish?zu  gained  his  favour, 
and  he  desired  her  to  ask  a  boon.  She  bewailed  her  childless 
state,  and  prayed  that  in  succeeding  births  she  might  have 
"  honourable  husbands  and  a  son  equal  to  a  patriarch."  Slie 
received  the  promise  that  she  should  be  of  marvellous  birth, 
should  be  very  beautiful,  and  should  have  ten  husbands  of 
mighty  prowess,  and  a  son  whose  posterity  should  fill  the 
universe.  This  legend  is  no  doubt  an  addition  of  later  date, 
invented  to  account  for  the  marvellous  origin  of  Marisha. 

MARKAiVDEYA.  A  sage,  the  son  of  Mrika^uh,  and  reputed 
author  of  the  Marka7i6?eya  PuraTia.  He  was  remarkable  for  his 
austerities  and  great  age,  and  is  called  Dirghayus,  'the  long-lived.' 

MARKAA^DEYA  PURAA^A.  "That  Purawa  in  which, 
commencing  with  the  story  of  the  birds  that  were  acquainted 
with  right  and  wrong,  everything  is  narrated  fully  by  Mar- 
'kandejsi  as  it  was  explained  by  holy  sages  in  reply  to  the 
question  of  the  Muni,  is  called  the  Markawf^eya,  containing 
9000  verses."  This  Purawa  is  narrated  in  the  first  place  by 
MliTkandeja,  and  in  the  second  by  certain  fabulous  birds  pro- 
foundly versed  in  the  Vedas,  who  relate  their  knowledge  in 
answer  to  the  questions  of  the  sage  Jaimini.  "  It  has  a  character 
different  from  all  the  other  Pura?ias.  It  has  nothing  of  a 
sectarial  spirit,  little  of  a  religious  tone ;  rarely  inserting  prayers 
and  invocations  to  any  deity,  and  such  as  are  inserted  are 
brief  and  moderate.  It  deals  little  in  precepts,  ceremonial  or 
moral  Its  leading  feature  is  narrative,  and  it  presents  an  un- 
interrupted succession  of  legends,  most  of  which,  when  ancient, 
are  embellished  with  new  circumstances,  and,  when  new,  par- 
take so  far  of  the  spirit  of  the  old,  that  they  are  disinterested 
creations  of  the  imagination,  having  no  particular  motive,  being 
designed  to  recommend  no  special  doctrine  or  observance. 
Whether  they  are  derived  from  any  other  source,  or  whether 
they  are  original  inventions,  it  is  not  possible  to  ascertain. 
They  are  most  probably,  for  the  greater  part  at  least,  original ; 


204  MARTTANDA—MARUTS, 

and  the  whole  has  been  narrated  in  the  compiler's  own  manner, 
a  manner  superior  to  that  of  the  Pura?ias  in  general,  with  ex- 
ception of  the  Bhagavata."  The  popular  Durga  Mahatmya  or 
Cha?26?ipa/ha  is  an  episode  of  this  Pura?m.  In  the  absence  of 
any  guide  to  a  positive  conclusion  as  to  the  date,  it  may  con- 
jecturally  be  placed  in  the  ninth  or  tenth  century.  Professor 
Banerjea  places  it  in  the  eighth  century.  This  Pura?ia  has  been 
published  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica,  and  translated  by  the  Rev. 
Professor  K.  M.  Banerjea. 

MARTTANDA.     In  the  Yedas  the  sun  or  sun  god. 

MARTYA-MUKHA.  'Human-faced.'  Any  being  in  which 
the  figures  of  a  man  and  animal  are  combined. 

MARUTS.  The  storm  gods,  who  hold  a  very  prominent 
place  in  the  Yedas,  and  are  represented  as  friends  and  allies 
of  Indra.  Yarious  origins  are  assigned  to  them.  They  are  sons 
of  Rudra,  sons  and  brothers  of  Indra,  sons  of  the  ocean,  sons  of 
heaven,  sons  of  earth.  They  are  armed  with  lightnings  and 
thunderbolts,  and  "ride  on  the  whirlwind  and  direct  the  storm." 
The  number  of  them  is  said  in  one  place  to  be  thrice  sixty,  and 
in  another  only  twenty-seven.  In  the  Ramaya?ia  they  are  repre- 
sented to  have  their  origin  in  an  unborn  son  of  Diti,  whom 
Indra  dashed  into  forty-nine  pieces  with  his  thunderbolt,  and  in 
compassion  converted  into  Maruts.  This  is  also  the  storj'- 
told  in  the  Purawas,  and  they  are  said  to  have  obtained  their 
name  from  the  words  md  rodih,  *weep  not,'  which  Indra  ad- 
dressed to  them.  A  scholiast  on  the  Yeda  says,  that  after  their 
birth  from  Diti,  as  above  told,  /S'iva  and  Parvati  beheld  them  in 
great  affliction,  and  the  latter  asked  Siva  to  transform  the  lumps 
of  flesh  into  boys ;  he  accordingly  made  them  boys  of  lil^e  form, 
like  age,  and  similarly  accoutred,  and  gave  them  to  Parvati  as 
her  sons,  Avhence  they  are  called  the  sons  of  Rudra.  Other 
legends  are,  that  Parvati,  hearing  the  lamentations  of  Diti, 
entreated  iS'iva  to  give  forms  to  the  shapeless  births,  telling  them 
not  to  weep  (md  rodlh)  ;  and  another,  that  he  actually  begot 
them  in  the  form  of  a  bull  on  Prithivi,  the  earth,  as  a  cow. 
(See  Diti.)  AU  these  legends  have  manifestly  been  invented  to 
explain  those  passages  of  the  Yedas  Avhich  make  the  Maruts 
the  sons  of  Rudra.  The  world  of  the  Maruts,  called  IMiiruta,  is 
the  appointed  heaven  of  Yai^yas.  2.  The  god  of  the  wind,  and 
regent  of  the  north-west  quarter. 


MARUTTA—MATANGA.  205 

IMARUTTA.  I.  A  descendant  of  Manu  Yaivaswata.  He  was 
a  Cliakravarti,  or  universal  monarcli,  and  performed  a  celebrated 
sacrifice.  "  Never,"  says  the  Visli7iu  Pura?za,  "  was  beheld  on 
earth  a  sacrifice  equal  to  the  sacrifice  of  Marutta.  All  the  im- 
plements and  utensils  were  made  of  gold.  Indra  was  intoxicated 
with  the  libations  of  soma  juice,  and  the  Brahmans  were  en- 
raptured with  the  magnificent  donations  they  received.  The 
winds  of  heaven  encompassed  the  rite  as  guards,  and  the  assembled 
gods  attended  to  behold  it."  According  to  the  Vayu  PuraTia, 
Marutta  was  taken  to  heaven  with  his  kindred  and  friends  by 
Samvarta,  the  officiating  priest  at  this  sacrifice.  But  the  Mar- 
ka?zc?eya  Pura?ia  says  he  was  killed  after  he  had  laid  down  his 
crown  and  retired  to  the  woods.  2.  A  king  of  the  Solar  race, 
who  was  killed  by  Vapushmat,  and  fearfully  avenged  by  his  son 
Dama  (q.v.). 

MATALI     Charioteer  of  Indra. 

MATANGA.  'An  elephant.'  A  man  who  was  brought  up 
as  a  Brahman  but  was  the  son  of  a  Cha?^c?ala.  His  story,  as 
told  in  the  Maha-bharata,  relates  that  he  was  mercilessly  goading 
an  ass's  foal  which  he  was  driving.  The  mother  ass,  seeing  this, 
tells  her  foal  that  she  could  expect  no  better,  for  her  driver  was 
no  Brahman  but  a  Cha?Z(^ala.  Matanga,  addressing  the  ass  as 
*'  most  intelligent,"  begged  to  know  how  this  was,  and  was  in- 
formed that  his  mother  when  intoxicated  had  received  the 
embraces  of  a  low-born  barber,  and  that  he,  the  offspring,  was  a 
Cha?Z(r/ala  and  no  Brahman.  In  order  to  obtain  elevation  to  the 
position  of  a  Brahman,  he  went  through  such  a  course  of  aus- 
terities as  alarmed  the  gods.  Indra  refused  to  admit  him.  He 
persevered  again  for  a  hundred  years,  but  still  Indra  persistently 
refused  such  an  impossible  request,  and  advised  him  to  seek 
some  other  boon.  Nothing  daunted,  he  went  on  a  thousand 
years  longer,  with  the  same  result.  Though  dejected  he  did  not 
despair,  but  proceeded  to  balance  himself  on  his  great  toe.  He 
continued  to  do  this  for  a  hundred  years,  when  he  was  reduced 
to  mere  skin  and  bone,  and  was  on  the  point  of  falling.  Indra 
went  to  support  him,  but  inexorably  refused  his  request,  and, 
when  further  importuned,  "  gave  him  the  power  of  moving 
about  like  a  bird,  and  changing  his  shape  at  will,  and  of  being 
honoured  and  renowned."  In  the  Ramayawa,  Rama  and  Sita 
visited  the  hermitage  of  Matanga  near  ^ishya-miika  mountain. 


2o6  MATART-SWAN—MATSYA  PURAAA. 

MATARI--S^VA]S'.  An  aerial  being  who  is  represented  in  the 
i?ig-veda  as  bringing  down  or  producing  Agni  (fire)  for  the 
Bhngus.     By  some  supposed  to  be  the  wind. 

MATHUEA.  An  ancient  and  celebrated  city  on  the  right 
bank  of  the  Yamuna,  surviving  in  the  modern  Muttra.  It  was 
the  birthplace  of  Krisli7ia  and  one  of  the  seven  sacred  cities.  The 
Vishmi  PuraTia  states  that  it  was  originally  called  Madhu  or 
]\Iadhu-vana,  from  the  demon  Madliu,  who  reigned  there,  but 
that  when  Lavawa,  his  son  and  successor,  was  killed  by  /S'atru- 
ghna,  the  conqueror  set  up  his  oa^ti  rule  there  and  built  a  city 
which  he  called  Madliura  or  Mathura. 

MATii/S.  '  Mothers  '  The  divine  mothers.  These  appear 
to  have  been  originally  the  female  energies  of  the  great  gods,  as 
Brahma?a  of  Brahma,  Maheswarl  of  iS'iva,  Yaish??avi  of  Yislmu, 
Indrawi  or  Aindrl  of  Indra,  &c.  The  number  of  them  was 
seven  or  eight  or  sixteen,  but  in  the  later  mythology  they  have 
increased  out  of  number.  They  are  connected  with  the  Tantra 
worship,  and  are  represented  as  worshipping  ^Siva  and  attending 
upon  his  son  Kartikeya. 

MATSYA.  'A  fish.'  i.  The  Fish  Incarnation.  (iS'^e  Avatara.) 
2.  Name  of  a  country.  Wilson  says,  "Dinajpoor,  Rungpoor, 
and  Cooch  Behar ;"  but  there  was  more  than  one  country  of  this 
name,  and  one  would  appear  to  have  been  situated  in  Northern 
India.  Manu  places  Matsya  in  Brahmarshi.  According  to  the 
Maha-bharata,  King  Yira/a's  capital  was  called  Matsya,  his  people 
also  were  called  Matsyas,  and  he  himself  was  styled  Matsya. 
General  Cunningham  finds  it  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Jaypur, 
and  says  that  the  town  of  Yira^  or  Baira/,  105  miles  south  of 
Dcllii,  was  its  capital. 

MATSYA  PURAYA.  This  Purawa  is  so  called  from  its  con- 
tents having  been  narrated  to  Manu  by  Yish7m  in  the  form  of  a 
fish  [mafsya).  It  consists  of  between  14,000  and  15,000  stanzas. 
This  work  "  is  a  miscellaneous  compilation,  but  includes  in  its 
contents  the  elements  of  a  genuine  Purilwa.  At  the  same  time, 
it  is  of  too  mixed  a  character  to  be  considered  as  a  genuine  work 
of  the  PaurarJk  class.  Many  of  its  chapters  are  the  same  as 
parts  of  the  Yishwi  and  Padma  Puriiwas.  It  has  also  drawn 
largely  from  the  jMahfi-bharata.  "  Although  a  iS'aiva  work,  it  is 
not  exclusively  so,  and  it  has  no  such  sectarial  absurdities  as  the 
Kiirma  and  Linga." 


AfA  UNE  YA  S— MED  ml  207 

MAUNEYAS.  A  class  of  Gandharvas,  sons  of  Kasyapa, 
who  dwelt  beneath  the  earth,  and  were  sixty  millions  in  num- 
ber. They  overpowered  the  Nagas,  and  compelled  them  to  flee 
to  YishTiu  for  assistance,  and  he  sent  Purukutsa  against  them, 
who  destroyed  them. 

MAUEYA.  The  dynasty  founded  by  Chandra-gupta  at 
Pa^ali-putra  (Patna)  in  Magadha.  According  to  the  VisliTiu 
Pura?ia,  the  Maurya  kings  were  ten  in  number  and  reigned  137 
years.  Their  names  were — (i.)  Chandi-a-gupta,  (2.)  Bindu-sara, 
(3.)  Asoka-vardhana,  (4.)  Su-ya6'as,  (5.)  Dasa-ratha,  (6.)  Sangata, 
(7.)  /S'llli-siika,  (8.)  Soma-6'arman,  (9.)  /S'asa-dharman,  (10.)  Bn'- 
had-ratha.  The  names  vary  in  other  Puril?ias.  See  Chandra- 
gupta. 

MAYA.  A  Daitya  who  was  the  architect  and  artificer  of  the 
Asuras,  as  Viswa-karma  was  the  artificer  of  the  Suras  or  gods. 
Ho  was  son  of  Yiprachitti  and  father  of  Yajra-kama  and  Mando- 
dari,  wife  of  Kava?ia.  He  dwelt  in  the  Deva-giri  mountains  not 
very  far  from  Delhi,  and  his  chief  works  were  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  that  city,  where  he  worked  for  men  as  well  as  Daityas. 
The  iMaha-bharata  speaks  of  a  palace  he  built  for  the  Pa7i<iavas. 
In  the  Hari-vau5a  he  appears  frequently  both  as  victor  and  van- 
quished in  contests  with  the  gods. 

MAYA,  '  niusion,  deception,'  i.  Illusion  personified  as  a 
female  form  of  celestial  origin,  created  for  the  purj^ose  of  beguil- 
ing some  individual  Sometimes  identified  with  Durga,  as  the 
source  of  spells,  or  as  a  personification  of  the  unreality  of  worldly 
things.  In  this  character  she  is  called  Maya-devi  or  Maha- 
maya,      2.  A  name  of  Gay  a,  one  of  the  seven  sacred  cities. 

MAYA-DEYl,  MAYA-YATl.  Wife  of  the  demon  ^ambara. 
She  brought  uj)  Pradyumna,  the  son  of  Krish7^a,  and  subse- 
quently married  him.  Pradyumna  is  represented  as  being  a 
revived  embodiment  of  Kama,  the  god  of  love ;  and  in  accord- 
ance with  this  legend  Maya-vati  is  identified  with  his  wife  Eati, 
the  Hindu  Yenus.     See  Maya, 

MAYU.    '  Bleater,  bellower.'    The  Kinnaras  are  called  Majois. 

MEDHATITHI.  j!^ame  of  a  Ka?iwa  who  was  a  Yedic  i^ishi. 
There  is  a  legend  in  one  of  the  Upanishads  that  he  was  carried 
up  to  heaven  by  Indra  in  the  form  of  a  ram,  because  the  god  had 
been  pleased  with  his  austerities.      Cf.  Ganymede. 

MEDIXI.      The  earth.     See  Kai/abha. 


2oS  MEDINI—MIMAXSA-DA  RSANA . 

MEDIXi,  ]\rEDINl  -  KOSHA.  A  weU-kuown  Sanskrit 
vocabulary.     There  are  printed  editions. 

MEGHA-DUTA.  '  Cloud  messenger.'  A  celebrated  poem 
by  Kali-dasa,  in  wliicli  a  banished  Yaksha  implores  a  cloud  to 
convey  tidings  of  him  to  his  wife.  It  has  been  translated  into 
English  verse  by  Wilson,  and  there  are  versions  in  French  and 
German.  The  text  has  been  printed  with  a  vocabulary  by 
Johnson. 

MEGHA-NADA.     A  son  of  Kavawa.     See  Indra-jit. 

!MEKALA.  Name  of  a  mountain  from  which  the  l^armada 
river  is  said  to  rise,  and  from  which  it  is  called  jNIekala  and 
Mekala-kanya,  'daughter  of  Mekala.'  There  was  a  people  of 
this  name,  who  probably  lived  in  the  vicinity  of  this  mountain. 
Their  kings  were  also  called  Mekalas,  and  there  appears  to  have 
been  a  city  Mekala. 

MEN  A,  MENAKA.  i.  In  the  i?«*g-veda,  a  daughter  of 
V?ishan-aswa.  A  Bralima?ia  tells  a  strange  story  of  Indra 
having  assumed  the  form  of  Mena  and  then  fallen  in  love  with 
her.  In  the  Pura?ias,  wife  of  Himavat  and  mother  of  Uma  and 
Ganga,  and  of  a  son  named  Mainaka.  2.  An  Apsaras  sent  to 
seduce  the  sage  Viswrimitra  from  liis  devotions,  and  succeeding 
in  this  object,  she  became  the  mother  of  the  nymph  ^S'akuntala. 

MERU.  A  fabulous  mountain  in  the  navel  or  centre  of  the 
earth,  on  which  is  situated  Swarga,  the  heaven  of  Indra,  con- 
taining: the  cities  of  the  ^0^%  and  the  habitations  of  celestial 
spirits.  The  Olymjms  of  the  Hindus.  Regarded  as  a  terrestrial 
object,  it  would  seem  to  be  some  mountain  north  of  the  Hima- 
layas. It  is  also  Su-meru,  Hemadri,  '  golden  mountain  ; '  Ratna- 
sanu,  'jewel  peak;'  Kar/akachala,  'lotus  mountain;'  and 
Amaradri  and  Deva-parvata,  'mountain  of  the  gods.' 

:MERU-SAVARiVAS.  The  ninth,  tenth,  eleventh,  and 
twelfth  Manus,  said  to  be  the  "  mind-engendered  sons  of  a 
daughter  of  Daksha  by  himself  and  the  three  gods  Brahma, 
Dharma,  and  Rudra,  to  whom  he  presented  her  on  Mount 
Meru."  The  signification  of  the  appellation  INIeru  is  obvious  ; 
that  of  SavarTia  or  Savar;d  signifies  that  they  were  all  of  one 
caste  (varnct). 

MiMANSA.     A  school  of  j)hilosophy.     See  Dar.s^ana. 

MI^IANSA-DAR/S'ANA.  A  work  on  the  IMlmiinsa  philo- 
sophy.    Printed  in  the  Bihliothcca  Indica. 


MI  MANS  A-  VAR  TTIKA-  MRICHCHHAKA  TL       209 

MIMANSA-YARTTIKA.  A  work  on  the  Mimansa  philo- 
sophy by  Kumarila  Eha//a. 

MINJIKA  (mas.)  and  MINJIKA  (fern.).  Two  beings  who, 
according  to  the  Maha-bharata,  sprang  from  the  seed  of  Rudra, 
which  was  spilt  upon  a  mountain.  They  are  to  be  worshii^ped 
by  those  who  desire  the  welfare  of  children. 

MITAKSHARA.  A  commentary  by  Vijnaneswara  on  the 
Smriti  or  text-book  of  Yajnawalkya.  The  authority  of  this 
book  is  admitted  all  over  India,  with  the  exception  of  Bengal 
proper.  The  portion  on  inlieritance  has  been  translated  by 
Colebrooke,  and  into  French  by  Orianne.  The  text  has  been 
printed  in  India. 

MITHILA.  A  city,  the  capital  of  Videha  or  North  Bihiir, 
which  corresponds  to  the  modern  Tirhut  and  Puraniya,  between 
the  GandakI  and  Ko5i  rivers.  It  has  given  its  name  to  one  of 
the  five  northern  nations  of  Brrdimans  {see  Brahman),  and  to  a 
school  of  law.  It  was  the  country  of  King  Janaka,  and  the 
name  of  his  capital,  Janaka-pura,  still  survives  in  "  Janakpoor," 
on  the  northern  frontier. 

MITRA.  Probably  connected  with  the  Persian  Mithra.  A 
form  of  the  sun.  In  the  Vedas  he  is  generally  associated  with 
Yaru??a,  he  being  the  ruler  of  the  day  and  Varu?ia  the  ruler  of 
the  night.  They  together  ujDhold  and  rule  the  earth  and  sky, 
guard  the  world,  encourage  religion,  and  chastise  sin.  He  is 
one  of  the  Adityas  or  sons  of  Aditi. 

MITRA-SAHA.     A  king  called  also  Kalmasha-pada  (q.v.). 

MLECHHAS.  Foreigners,  barbarians,  people  not  of  Aryan 
race. 

MOHA-MUDGARA.  '  Hammers  for  ignorance.'  A  poem 
in  explanation  of  the  Yedanta  philosoj^hy.  It  has  been  printed 
and  translated  by  IST^ve. 

Mi?/CHCHHAKATi  'The  toy-cart.'  A  drama  in  ten  acts 
by  King  /Sudraka,  supposed  to  be  the  oldest  Sansk?'it  drama 
extant,  and  to  have  been  written  in  the  first  or  second  century 
A.D.  The  country  over  which  ^Siidraka  reigned  is  not  known. 
This  play,  says  Wilson,  its  translator,  "  is  a  curious  and  interest- 
ing picture  of  national  manners  .  .  .  free  from  all  exterior 
influence  or  adulteration.  It  is  a  portrait  purely  Indian.  It 
represents  a  state  of  society  sufhciently  advanced  in  civilisation 
to  be  luxurious  and  corrupt,   and  is    certainly  very  far  from 

o 


2 1  o  MRIGANKA  -LEKHA—MUD  GALA. 

offering  a  flattering  similitude,  although  not  without  some 
attractive  features."  Williams  observes,  "  The  dexterity  with 
which  the  plot  is  arranged,  the  ingenuity  Avith  which  the  inci- 
dents are  connected,  the  skill  with  which  the  characters  are 
delineated  and  contrasted,  the  boldness  and  felicity  of  the 
diction,  are  scarcely  unworthy  of  our  own  great  dramatists." 
There  are  translations  in  French  and  several  editions  of  the 
text. 

Mi?/GAXKA-LEKHA.  A  play  in  four  acts,  written  by 
Yiswa-natha  at  Benares.  The  piece  takes  its  name  from  the 
heroine,  a  princess  of  Kamariipa.  It  is  a  comparatively  modern 
work. 

Mi^/TYU.     '  Death.'    A  name  of  Yama,  the  god  of  the  dead. 

MUCHUKUXDA.  In  the  Pura?ias,  son  of  Mandhat?'/,  and 
called  'king  of  men.'  He  rendered  assistance  to  the  gods  in 
their  wars  with  the  Asuras  or  demons,  and  he  asked  and 
obtained  as  a  reward  the  boon  of  a  long  uninterrupted  sleep. 
AYliosoever  disturbed  him  was  to  be  burnt  to  ashes  by  fire 
issuing  from  his  body.  Kala-yavana  was  lured  into  his  cave 
by  Kr^'shwa  and  woke  the  sleeper,  who  cast  a  fiery  glance  upon 
the  intruder  which  destroyed  him.  Muchukunda  then  paid 
laud  and  honour  to  Knsh?ia,  who  gave  him  power  to  go  to 
whatever  celestial  region  he  wished,  and  to  enjoy  all  heavenly 
pleasures.  Muchukunda  left  his  cave  and  went  to  Gandha- 
madana  to  perform  peiiance.  The  Maha-bharata  says  he  was 
reproved  by  Kuvera  for  trusting  to  his  priest  more  than  to  his 
own  prowess  for  success  in  war,  but  he  replied  that  the  religious 
aid  of  Brahmans  was  as  necessary  as  the  warlike  powers  of 
Kshatriyas. 

MUDGALA.  A  Yedic  Tiishi  from  whom  the  Maudgalya 
Brahmans  sprang.  There  were  several  other  Brahmans  named 
JSIudgala.  A  sage  of  this  name  is  recorded  in  the  Maha-bharata 
to  have  "  lived  a  life  of  poverty,  piety,  and  self-restraint,  otler- 
ing  hospitality  to  thousands  of  Brahmans,  according  to  his 
humble  means,  with  the  grain  which  he  gleaned  like  a  pigeon, 
and  which  (like  the  widow  of  Zarephath's  oil)  never  underwent 
diminution,  or  rather  increased  again,  when  it  was  required." 
The  choleric  sage  Dur-vasas  went  to  test  the  patience  of  Mudgala, 
and  six  times  devoured  all  the  food  which  his  host  possessed 
without  ruffling  his  temper.     Dur-vasas  in  his  admiration  de- 


M  UDRA-RAKSHA  SA—MUNDAKA.  1 1 T 

clared  that  Mudgala  would  go  bodily  to  heaven,  and  the  mes- 
senger of  the  gods  arrived  with  his  heavenly  car.  The  sage, 
before  accepting  the  invitation,  desired  to  be  informed  of  the 
joys  and  ills  of  heaven.  After  hearing  a  full  explanation,  he 
found  that  the  enjoyments  of  heaven  must  come  to  a  close,  so 
he  declared  that  he  "  had  no  desire  for  heaven,  and  would  seek 
only  that,  eternal  abode  where  there  is  no  sorrow,  nor  distress, 
nor  change."  He  dismissed  the  messenger  of  the  gods,  and 
began  to  practise  ascetic  virtues,  becoming  indifferent  to  j)raise 
and  blame,  regarding  clods,  gold,  stones,  and  gold  as  alike. 
Pure  knowledge  led  to  fixed  contemplation ;  and  that  again 
imparted  strength  and  complete  comprehension,  whereby  he 
obtained  supreme  eternal  perfection  in  the  nature  of  quietude 
{nirvdiia). 

MUDEA-RAKSHASA.  'The  signet  of  the  minister.'  A 
drama  by  Visakha-datta.  This  play  has  an  historical  interest,  for 
Chandra-gupta,  the  Sandracottus  of  Greek  writers,  is  a  leading 
character  in  it.  The  date  of  its  production  is  apparently  the 
eleventh  or  twelfth  century  a.d.  It  is  one  of  the  dramas  trans- 
lated by  Wilson,  who  says,  "  The  author  was  not  a  poet  of  the 
sj)here  of  Bhava-bhiiti  or  Kali-dasa.  His  imagination  rises  not  to 
their  level,  and  there  is  scarcely  a  brilliant  or  beautiful  thought 
in  the  play.  As  some  equivalent  for  the  want  of  imagination, 
he  has  a  vigorous  perception  of  character  and  a  manly  strain  of 
sentiment,  that  are  inferior  only  to  elevated  conception  and  deli- 
cate feeling.  He  is  the  Massinger  of  the  Hindus.  The  language 
of  the  original  partakes  of  the  general  character  of  the  play ;  it  is 
rarely  beautiful  or  delicate,  but  always  vigorous,  and  occasion- 
ally splendid." 

MUGDHA-BODHA.  A  standard  Grammar  by  Yopadeva, 
written  towards  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century.  It  has  been 
edited  by  Bohtlingk,  and  there  are  several  Indian  editions. 

MtJKA.  A  Danava,  son  of  Upasunda.  He  assumed  the  form 
of  a  wild  boar  in  order  to  kill  Arjuna,  but  was  himself  killed  by 
/Siva  in  his  form  of  the  Kirata  or  mountaineer. 

MUKHAGNL  '  Fiery-faced. '  Spirits  or  goblins  with  faces 
of  fire,  perhaps  meteors. 

MUiVDA.  'Bald.'  An  appellation  of  Ketu.  Is^ame  of  a 
demon  slain  by  Durga. 

MUiVDAKA.     Name  of  a  Upanishad   (q.v.)  translated   by 


2 1 2  MUXI—XA  CHIKE  TA  S. 

Dr.   Eoer  in  tlie  EihVwiheca  Indica  and  by   Eammoliim  Eoy. 
There  are  several  editions  of  tlie  text. 

MUX  I.  "  X  holy  sage,  a  pious  and  learned  person,  endowed 
with  more  or  less  of  a  divine  nature,  or  having  attained  to  it  by 
rigid  abstraction  and  mortification.  The  title  is  applied  to  the 
^/shis,  and  to  a  great  number  of  persons  distinguished  for  their 
writings  considered  as  inspired,  as  Pa?iini,  Tyasa."  Their  super- 
human powers  over  gods  and  men  have  been  often  displayed  in 
blessings,  but  more  frequently  in  curses. 

MUEA,  ]\IUEU.  A  great  demon  who  had  seven  thousand 
sons.  He  was  an  allv  of  the  demon  Xaraka,  who  ruled  over 
Prag-jyotisha,  and  assisted  him  in  the  defence  of  that  city 
against  KWsh;?a.  He  placed  in  the  environs  of  the  city  "  nooses 
the  edges  of  which  were  as  sharp  as  razors,"  but  K//sh«a  cut 
them  to  pieces  with  his  discus,  slew  Muru,  "  and  burnt  his  seven 
thousand  sons  like  moths  with  the  flame  of  the  edge  of  his  discus." 

MUEAEI.     '  The  foe  of  Mura.'     An  appellation  of  K;'/sh«a, 

MUEAEl  ^IIaS'EA.  Author  of  the  drama  Murari  Xafaka  or 
Anargha  Eaghava  (q.v.). 

MUSALA.  The  pestle-shaped  club  carried  by  Bala-rama.  It 
was  named  Saunanda. 

MUSALA  -  DHAEA,  IMTSALAYVDHA,  :\irSALIX. 
'Armed  with  a  pestle.'     An  appellation  of  Bala-rama. 

MUSHJIKA..  A  celebrated  boxer  in  the  service  of  Kan^a, 
who  directed  him  to  kill  Krishna  or  Bala-rama  in  a  public  en- 
counter, but  Bala-rama  overthrew  him  and  killed  him. 

XABHAGADISHrA,  XABHAGAXEDISHrHA,  XABHA- 
iJ^DISH JIIA.  A  son  of  jNIanu,  who,  wliile  he  was  living  as 
a  Brahmachari,  was  deprived  of  his  inlieritance,  by  his  father 
according  to  the  Yajur-veda,  by  his  brothers  according  to  the 
Aitareya  Brahma 7?a.  He  subsequently  acquired  wealth  by  im- 
parting spiritual  knowledge. 

NACHIKETAS.  The  story  of  Xacliiketas  is  told  in  the 
Taittiriya  Bralima7?a  and  Katha  Upanishad.  Vaja-c<;ravasa  or" 
Aruwi,  the  father  of  Xachiketas,  desirous  of  attaining  heaven, 
performed  great  sacrifices,  and  was  profuse  in  his  gifts  to  the 
priests.  The  son  told  him  that  he  had  not  given  all,  for  that 
he,  his  son,  was  left,  and  said,  "  To  whom  shall  I  be  given  % " 
On  repeating  the  question,  the  father  angrily  replied,  "To  death.'* 
So  the  son  dejiarted  to  the  abodes  of  death,  and,  after  staying 


NACA-NAHUSHA.  213 

there  three  nights,  Yama  was  constrained  to  offer  him  a  boon. 
He  prayed  to  see  his  father  again  and  be  reconciled.  This  boon 
was  granted  and  another  offered.  All  kinds  of  blessings  were 
proposed,  but  the  youth  refused  to  be  contented  with  anything 
but  a  true  knowledge  of  the  soul.  Yama  then  proceeded  to 
instruct  hiuL  The  story  has  been  done  into  verse  by  Muir 
(Texts,  vol.  V.  p.  329). 

NAGA.  A  snake,  especially  the  cobra-capella.  A  mythical 
semi-divine  being,  having  a  human  face  with  the  tail  of  a  ser- 
pent, and  the  expanded  neck  of  the  cobra.  The  race  of  JS'agas 
is  said  to  be  a  thousand  in  number,  and  to  have  sprung  from 
Kadru,  the  wife  of  Kasyapa,  for  the  purpose  of  peopling  Patala, 
or  the  regions  below  the  earth,  where  they  reign  in  great 
splendour.  From  the  name  of  their  mother  they  are  called 
Ivadraveyas.  Their  mother  is  sometimes  called  Su-rasa.  This 
dominion  was  taken  from  them  by  the  Gandharvas,  but  they 
recovered  it  through  their  sister,  the  Xarmada  river,  who  induced 
Yishwu  to  send  Pratardana  to  their  assistance.  Their  females 
were  handsome,  and  some  of  them  intermarried  with  men,  as 
Ulupi  with  Arjuna. 

The  IS^agas,  or  a  people  bearing  the  same  name,  are  historical, 
and  have  left  many  traces  behind  them.  There  were  mountains  so 
called,  and  Naga-dwipa  was  one  of  the  seven  divisions  of  Bharata- 
varsha.  Kings  of  this  race  reigned  at  ]\Iathura,  Padmavati,  &c., 
and  the  name  survives  in  the  modern  Xagpur.  There  are  various 
speculations  as  to  who  and  what  they  were,  but  it  seems  clear 
they  were  a  race  distinct  from  the  Hindus.  The  mythological 
accounts  are  probably  based  upon  the  historical,  but  they  have 
been  mixed  up  together  and  confused.  The  favourite  theory  is 
that  they  were  a  Scythic  race,  and  probably  obtained  their  name 
from  worshipping  serpents  or  holding  them  in  awe  and  reverence. 

iJsi'AGA-LOKA.     Patala,  the  residence  of  the  Kagas. 

NAGA-NAXDAXA.  A  Buddhist  drama  in  five  acts  by  Ai 
Harsha  Deva.  It  has  been  translated  by  Boyd.  The  text  has 
been  printed. 

XAGAEA.  A  city.  There  are  seven  sacred  cities  which 
confer  eternal  happiness — (i.)  Ayodhya,  (2.)  Mathura,  (3.)  Ma^^a 
(Gaya),  (4.)  £a<bi  (Benares),  (5.)  Kanchi  (Conjeveram),  (6.) 
Avanti  or  Avantika  (Ujjajini),  (7.)  Dwaraka  or  DwaravatL 

XAHUSHA.     Son  of  Ayus  the  eldest  son  of  Pururavas,  and 


214  NA  IK  AS  HE  YAS—NAKULA. 

father  of  Yayati.  This  king  is  mentioned  by  Mann  as  having 
come  into  conflict  with  the  Brahmans,  and  his  story  is  repeated 
several  times  with  variations  in  different  parts  of  the  ]Maha- 
hharata  as  well  as  in  the  Pura/zas,  the  aim  and  object  of  it 
evidently  being  to  exhibit  the  retribution  awaiting  any  man  who 
derogates  from  the  power  of  Erahmans  and  the  respect  due  to 
them.  "  By  sacrifices,  austere  fervour,  sacred  study,  self-restraint, 
and  valour,  jSTahusha  acquired  the  undisturbed  sovereignty  of 
the  three  worlds.  .  .  .  Through  want  of  virtuous  humility  the 
great  king  Xahusha  was  utterly  ruined." — Maim.  One  version 
of  the  story  says  that  he  aspired  to  the  possession  of  Indra?zi,  wife 
of  Indra,  when  that  god  had  concealed  himself  for  having  killed 
a  Brahman.  A  thousand  great  Rkhis,  bore  the  car  of  Xahusha 
through  the  air,  and  on  one  occasion  he  touched  with  his  foot 
the  great  Agast^^a,  who  was  carrying  him.  The  sage  in  his  anger 
cried  out,  "  Fall,  thou  serpent,"  and  Nahusha  fell  from  his 
glorious  car  and  became  a  serpent.  Agastya,  at  the  supplication 
of  Xahusha,  put  a  limit  to  the  curse ;  and  according  to  one  ver- 
sion, the  doomed  man  was  released  from  it  by  the  instrumentality 
of  Yudhi-shrtiira,  when  he  threw  off  "  his  huge  reptile  form, 
became  clothed  in  a  celestial  body,  and  ascended  to  heaven." 

ISTAIKASHEYAS.  Carnivorous  imps  descended  from  Xi- 
kasha,  mother  of  Ravarza.     They  are  called  also  Nikashatmajas. 

NAIMISHA,  XAIMISHARAiVYA.  A  forest  {arawja)  near 
the  Gomati  (Gumtl)  river,  in  which  the  Maha-bharata  was 
rehearsed  by  Sauti  to  the  assembled  itishis. 

XAIRit/TA.  Belonging  to  the  south-west  quarter;  the 
regent  of  that  quarter.     An  imp,  goblin,  or  Efdvshasa. 

:NAISHADHA-CHARITA,  NAISHADHIYA.  a  poem  on 
the  life  of  Xala,  king  of  Nishadha,  by  AS'ri  Harsha,  a  great  scep- 
tical philosopher  who  lived  in  the  eleventh  or  twelfth  century 
A.D.  It  is  one  of  the  six  Mahii-kavyas.  There  are  several 
printed  editions. 

NAKSHATRAS.  Mansions  of  the  moon,  lunar  asterisms. 
At  first  they  were  twenty-seven  in  number,  but  they  were 
increased  to  twenty-eight.  They  are  said  to  be  daughters  of 
Daksha  who  were  married  to  the  moon.     See  Daksha. 

NAKULA.  The  fourth  of  the  Pfrndu  princes.  He  was  the 
twin  son  of  Madrl,  the  second  wife  of  Pawdu,  but  mythologicaUy 
he  was  son  of  the  Aswins,  or  more  specifically  of  the  Aswin 


NALA.  215 

Nasatya.  He  was  taught  tlie  art  of  training  and  managing 
horses  by  Dro?za,  and  when  he  entered  the  service  of  the  king 
of  Viril/a  he  was  master  of  the  horse.  He  had  a  son  named 
Nir-amitra  by  his  wife  Karemi-matl,  a  princess  of  Chedi.  See 
jSIaha-ljharata. 

NALA.  I.  King  of  Nishadha  and  husband  of  Damayantl. 
The  story  of  Nala  and  Damayanti  is  one  of  the  episodes  of  the 
]\raha-bharata,  and  is  well  known  from  having  been  translated 
into  Latin  by  Bopp  and  into  English  verse  by  Dean  Milman. 
Damayantl  was  the  only  daughter  of  Ehima,  king  of  Yidarbha 
(Birar),  and  was  very  lovely  and  accomplished.  Nala  was  brave 
and  handsome,  virtuous,  and  learned  in  the  Vedas,  skilled  in 
arms  and  in  the  management  of  horses,  but  addicted  to  the  vice 
of  gambling.  They  loved  each  other  upon  the  mere  fame  of  their 
respective  virtues  and  beauty,  and  Damayantl  pined  for  the 
presence  of  her  unknown  lover.  Bhima  determined  that  his 
daughter  should  hold  a  swayam-vara.  Rajas  flocked  to  it  in 
crowds,  and  among  them  Nala.  Four  gods,  Indra,  Agni, 
YaruTia,  and  Yama,  also  attended.  Nala  met  them  on  the 
way,  and  reverently  promised  to  do  their  will.  They  bade  him 
enter  the  palace  and  inform  Damayantl  that  they  would  pre- 
sent themselves  among  the  candidates,  and  that  she  must  choose 
one  of  them.  Kala  reluctantly  performed  his  task,  but  his 
presence  perfected  his  conquest,  and  the  maiden  announced  her 
resolve  to  pay  due  homage  to  the  gods,  but  to  choose  him  for 
her  lord.  Each  of  the  four  gods  assumed  the  form  of  Nala, 
but  the  lover's  eye  distinguished  the  real  one,  and  she  made  her 
choice.  They  married  and  lived  for  some  time  in  great  happi- 
ness, a  son  and  a  daughter,  named  Indrasena  and  Lidrasena, 
being  born  to  them.  Kali,  a  personification  of  the  Kali  or  iron 
age,  arrived  too  late  for  the  swayam-vara.  He  resolved  to  be 
revenged,  and  he  employed  his  peculiar  powers  to  ruin  Nala 
through  his  love  of  gambling.  At  his  instigation,  Pushkara, 
Nala's  younger  brother,  projoosed  a  game  of  dice.  Kali  charmed 
the  dice,  and  Nala  went  on  losing ;  but  he  was  infatuated ;  the 
entreaties  of  friends  and  ministers,  wife  and  children,  Avere  of 
no  avail ;  he  went  on  till  he  had  lost  his  all,  even  to  his  clothes. 
His  rival  Pushkara  became  king,  and  proclaimed  that  no  one 
was  to  give  food  or  shelter  to  Nala,  so  the  ruined  monarch 
wandered  forth  into  the  forest  with  his  wife,  and  suffered  great 


2i6  NALA. 

privations.  Some  birds  flew  away  with  his  only  garment.  He 
resolved  to  abandon  his  wife  in  the  hope  that  she  would  return 
to  her  father's  court,  so  he  divided  her  sole  remaining  garment 
while  she  slept  and  left  her.  Thus  left  alone,  DamayantI 
wandered  about  in  great  distress.  She  did  not  go  home,  but 
she  at  length  found  service  and  protection  with  the  princess  of 
Chedi.  Xala  fell  in  with  the  king  of  serpents,  who  was  under  a 
curse  from  which  Nala  was  to  deliver  him.  The  serpent  bit  I^ala, 
and  told  him  that  the  poison  should  work  upon  him  till  the  evil 
spirit  was  gone  out  of  him,  and  that  he  should  then  be  restored 
to  all  he  loved.  Through  the  effects  of  the  bite  he  was  transformed 
into  a  misshapen  dwarf.  In  this  form  he  entered  the  ser^dce  of 
itituparwa,  king  of  Ayodhya,  as  a  trainer  of  horses  and  an 
accomplished  cook,  under  the  name  of  Bahuka.  Damayanti 
was  discovered  and  conducted  to  her  father's  home,  where  she 
found  her  children.  Great  search  was  made  for  Xala,  but  in 
vain,  for  no  one  knew  him  in  his  altered  form.  One  Brahman, 
however,  suspected  him,  and  informed  Damayanti.  She  re- 
solved to  test  his  feelings  by  announcing  her  intention  of  hold- 
ing a  second  swayam-vara.  King  it^tuparwa  determined  to 
attend,  and  took  Nala  with  him  as  driver  of  his  chariot.  Riiw- 
parna  was  skilled  in  numbers  and  the  rules  of  chances.  On 
their  journey  he  gave  a  wonderful  proof  of  this,  and  he  in- 
structed I^ala  in  the  science.  "Wlien  Xala  had  acquired  tliis 
knowledge  the  evil  spirit  went  out  of  him,  but  still  he  retained 
his  deformity.  Damayanti  half  penetrated  his  disguise,  and 
was  at  lens^-th  convinced  that  he  was  her  husband  bv  the  flavour 
of  a  dish  which  he  had  cooked.  They  met,  and,  after  some 
loving  reproaches  and  the  interference  of  the  gods,  they  became 
reconciled,  and  Xala  resumed  his  form.  He  again  played  with 
Pushkara,  and  staked  his  wife  against  the  kingdom.  Profiting 
by  the  knowledge  he  had  obtained  from  itituparw.a,  he  won 
back  all  and  again  became  king.  Puslikara  then  humbled  him- 
self,  and  Nala  not  only  forgave  him,  but  sent  him  home  to  his 
own  city  enriched  with  many  gifts.  The  text  of  this  poem 
has  been  often  printed,  and  there  are  translations  in  various 
languages. 

2.  A  monkey  chief,  said  to  be  a  son  of  Yi^nva-karma.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Ramaya?ia,  he  had  the  power  of  making  stones  float 
in  water.     He  was  in  Rfinia's  army  and  built  tlie  bridge  of 


NALA-KUVARA—NANDI-MUKHAS.  2 1 7 

stone  called  Eama-setii,  or  Nala-setu,  from  the  continent  to 
Ceylon,  over  which  Eiima  passed  with  his  army. 

NALA-KUVAEA.     A  son  of  Kiivera. 

NALODAYA  (Xala  +  udaya).  '  The  rise  of  Nala.'  A  poem 
describing  the  restoration  to  power  of  King  Nala  after  he  had 
lost  his  all.  It  is  ascribed  to  a  Kali-dasa,  but  the  composition 
is  very  artificial,  and  the  ascription  to  the  great  Kali-dasa  may 
well  be  doubted.  The  text  has  been  printed,  and  there  is  a 
metrical  translation  by  Yates. 

NALOPAKHYANA.  The  story  of  Xala,  an  episode  of  the 
]\Iaha-bharata.     8ee  IS'ala. 

NAMUCHL  A  demon  slain  by  Indra  with  the  foam  of 
water.  The  legend  of  IsTamuchi  first  appears  in  the  ii/g-veda, 
wdiere  it  is  said  that  Indra  ground  "the  head  of  the  slave 
Namuchi  like  a  sounding  and  roUing  cloud,"  but  it  is  amplified 
by  the  commentator  and  also  in  the  ^S'atapatha  Brahma?ia  and 
Maha-bharata.  When  Indra  conquered  the  Asuras  there  w^as  one 
Namuchi  who  resisted  so  strongly  that  he  overpowered  Indra 
and  held  him.  JN'amuchi  offered  to  let  Indra  go  on  promise  not 
to  kill  him  by  day  or  by  night,  with  wet  or  with  dry.  Indra 
gave  the  promise  and  was  released,  but  he  cut  off  Xamuchi's 
head  at  twilight,  between  day  and  night,  and  with  foam  of 
water,  which  was,  according  to  the  authorities,  neither  wet  nor 
dry.  The  Maha-bharata  adds  that  the  dissevered  head  followed 
Indra  calling  out  "  0  wicked  slayer  of  thy  friend." 

IS'ANDA.  I.  The  cowherd  by  whom  K7"ish?ia  was  brought 
up.  2.  A  king,  or  dynasty  of  kings,  of  Magadha,  that  reigned 
at  Pa/aH-putra,  and  was  overthrown  by  Chandra-gupta  the 
Maurya  about  315  B.C.     See  Chandra-gupta. 

NANDANA.  The  grove  of  Indra,  lying  to  the  north  of  Meru. 
•  NANDI.  The  bull  of  *S'iva.  The  Vayu  Pura/^a  makes  him 
the  son  of  Kasyaj)a  and  Surabhi.  His  image,  of  a  milky  white 
colour,  is  always  conspicuous  before  the  temples  of  /S'iva.  He  is 
the  chamberlain  of  ^Siva,  chief  of  his  personal  attendants  {ganas), 
and  carries  a  staff  of  office.  He  is  guardian  of  all  quadrupeds. 
He  is  also  called  >S'alankayana,  and  he  has  the  apj)ellations  of 
]S'adi-deha  and  Ta?i(iava-talika,  because  he  accompanies  with 
music  the  tawc^ava  dance  of  his  master. 

NANDI-MUKHAS.  A  class  of  Pit?-/s  or  Manes,  concerning 
whose  character  there  is  a  good  deal  of  uncertainty. 


2 1 8  NA  NDINI—NARA  DA, 

NANDIXI.  The  cow  of  plenty  belonging  to  tlie  sageYasish- 
/lia,  said  to  have  been  born  of  Surabhi,  the  cow  of  j^lenty  that 
was  prodnced  at  the  churning  of  the  ocean. 

NANDI-PURAiVA.     See  Piirawa. 

NAXDI>SA,  :N^AXDI^'WARA.  'Lord  of  Nandi.'  A  title  of 
^iva.  It  is  related  in  the  Ramayawa  that  Rava?za  went  to  the 
<S'ara-vana,  the  birthplace  of  Karttikeya,  and  on  his  way  through 
the  mountains  he  beheld  "  a  formidable,  dark,  tawny-coloured 
dwarf  called  iSTandiswara,  who  was  a  follower  of  j\Iaha-deva,  or 
rather  that  deity  himself  in  another  body.  This  being  desired 
Rava?ia  to  halt,  as  /Siva  was  sporting  in  the  mountain,  and  no 
one,  not  even  a  god,  could  pass.  Ravawa  asked  derisively  who 
>S'iva  was,  and  laughed  contemptuously  at  IsTandlswara,  who  had 
the  face  of  a  monkey,  l^andiswara  retorted  that  monkeys  hav- 
ing the  same  shape  as  himself  and  of  similar  energy  should  be 
produced  to  destroy  Ravawa's  race.  In  reply  to  this  menace, 
Ravawa  threatened  to  pull  up  the  mountain  by  its  roots  and  let 
/S'iva  know  his  own  danger.  So  he  threw  his  arms  round  the 
mountain  and  lifted  it  up,  which  made  the  hosts  of  AS'iva  tremble 
and  Parvati  quake  and  cling  to  her  husband.  /S'iva  then  pressed 
down  the  mountain  with  his  great  toe,  and  crushed  and  held 
fast  the  arms  of  Rava?za,  who  uttered  a  loud  cry  which  shook 
all  creation.  Rava?2a's  friends  counselled  him  to  propitiate  6'iva, 
and  he  did  so  for  a  thousand  years  with  hymns  and  weeping. 
/S'iva  then  released  him,  and  said  that  his  name  should  be  Rava?ia 
from  the  cry  [rdvoi)  which  he  had  uttered.  The  origin  of  this 
story  is  sufficiently  manifest,  it  has  been  built  up  on  the  name 
Ravawa,  to  the  glory  of  AS'iva,  by  a  zealous  partisan  of  that  deity. 

KARA.     *  Man.'     The  original  eternal  man. 

NARAD  A.  A  i^ishi  to  whom  some  hymns  of  the  it/g-veda 
are  ascribed.  He  is  one  of  the  Prajapatis,  and  also  one  of  the 
seven  great  i^zshis.  The  various  notices  of  him  are  somewhat 
inconsistent.  The  ^ig-veda  describes  him  as  "of  the  Kamva 
family."  Another  authority  states  that  he  sprang  from  the 
forehead  of  Brahma,  and  the  Vish7m  Purawa  makes  him  a  son 
of  Kasyapa  and  one  of  Daksha's  daughters.  The  Maha-bharata 
and  some  Purawas  state  that  he  frustrated  the  scheme  which 
Daksha  had  formed  for  peopling  the  earth,  and  consequently 
incurred  that  patriarch's,  curse  to  enter  again  the  Avomb  of  a 
woman  and  be  born.     Daksha,  however,  relented  at  the  solici- 


NARADA—NARAKA.  219 

tation  of  Brahma,  and  consented  that  iSI^arada  should  be  born 
again  of  Brahma  and  one  of  Daksha's  daughters ;  he  was  hence 
called  Brahma  and  Deva-brahma.  In  some  respects  he  bears  a 
resemblance  to  Orpheus.  He  is  the  inventor  of  the  vma  (lute), 
and  was  chief  of  the  Gandharvas  or  heavenly  musicians.  He 
also  went  down  to  the  infernal  regions  (Patala),  and  was  de- 
liirhted  with  what  he  saw  there.  In  later  times  he  is  connected 
with  the  legend  of  Kr/sh?ia.  He  warned  Kansa  of  the  imminent 
incarnation  of  Vish?2u,  and  he  afterwards  became  the  friend  and 
associate  of  K?'ish?ia. 

The  Narada-pancha-ratra  relates  that  Brahma  advised  his  ^ 
son  Narada  to  marry,  but  i^arada  censured  his  father  as  a  false 
teacher,  because  devotion  to  Ivrzsh?ia  was  the  only  true  means 
of  felicity.  Brahma  then  cursed  Narada  to  lead  a  life  of  sen- 
suality, in  subjection  to  women,  and  Narada  retorted  the  curse, 
condemning  Brahma  to  lust  after  his  OAvn  daughter,  and  to 
be  an  object  unworthy  of  adoration.  I^arada  has  the  appella- 
tions, Kali-karaka,  '  strife-maker  ;'  Kapi-vaktra,  '  monkey-faced;' 
Pisuna,  '  messenger  or  spy.' 

Narada  was  also  one  of  the  great  writers  upon  law.  His 
text-book,  called  "  Naradiya  Dharma-5astra,"  has  been  translated 
into  English  by  Dr.  Jolly. 

NAEADA  PANCHA-KATRA.  A  ritualistic  work  of  the 
VaisliTiavas.     It  has  been  printed  in  the  Bibliotheca  Inclica. 

NARADA-PURAiVA,  NARADlYA-PURAiVA.  "  Where 
Narada  has  described  the  duties  which  were  observed  in  the 
B?'ihat  Kalpa,  that  is  called  the  l^aradiya,  having  25,000 
stanzas."  But  the  only  copy  that  AVilson  analysed  contained 
not  more  than  3000  stanzas.  There  is  another  work  called  the 
Brihan  or  Great  Naradiya,  but  this  extends  only  to  3500  verses. 
These  PuraTzas,  says  Wilson,  bear  "  no  conformity  to  the  defi- 
nition of  a  PuraTza  ;  both  are  sectarial  and  modern  compilations, 
intended  to  support  the  doctrine  of  Bhakti  or  faith  in  Yishmi." 
They  are  modern  compositions,  possibly  even  of  so  late  a  date  as 
the  sixteenth  or  seventeenth  century.  One  of  them  refers  to 
the  "  killers  of  cows  "  and  "  contemners  of  the  gods,"  meaning, 
no  doubt,  the  Mohammadans,  so  that  the  passage  would  seem 
to  have  been  written  after  India  was  in  their  hands. 

NARAKA.  Hell ;  a  place  of  torture  to  which  the  souls  of 
the  wicked  are  sent.     IManu   enumerates  twenty-one  hells  : — 


220  NARAKA—NArA  van  a. 

Taniisra,  Andha-tamisra,  Maha-raiirava,  Raiirava,  Xaraka,  Kala- 
sutra,  Malia-naraka,  Sanjivana,  Malia-vichi,  Tapana,  Samprata- 
pana,  Sanliata,  Sakakola,  Kuc^mala,  Puti-mrittika,  Lolia-.sanku, 
it/jisha,  Panthana,  ASTilmali,  Asi-patra-vana,  and  Lolia-daraka. 
Other  authorities  vary  greatly  as  to  the  numbers  and  names  of 
the  hells.     See  Vish?iu  Pura?ia,  ii.  214. 

NARAKA.  An  Asura,  son  of  the  Earth.  In  the  Maha- 
bharata  and  Visli?iu  Pura?ia  he  is  said  to  have  carried  off  the 
ear-rings  of  Aditi  to  the  impregnable  castle  of  Priig-jyotisha,  but 
Knsh??a,  at  the  request  of  the  gods,  went  there  and  killed  him 
and  recovered  the  jewels.  In  the  Ilari-vansa  the  legend  differs. 
According  to  this,  Naraka,  king  of  Prag-jyotisha,  was  an  implac- 
able enemy  of  the  gods.  He  assumed  the  form  of  an  elephant, 
and  having  carried  off  the  daughter  of  Viswa-karma,  he  subjected 
her  to  violation.  He  seized  the  daughters  of  the  Gandharvas,  and 
of  gods  and  of  men,  as  well  as  the  Apsarasas  themselves,  and 
had  more  than  16,000  women,  for  whom  he  built  a  splendid 
residence.  He  also  appropriated  to  himself  jewels,  garments,  and 
valuables  of  all  sorts,  and  no  Asura  before  him  had  ever  been 
so  horrible  in  his  actions. 

I^ARA-NARAYAA^A.  Two  ancient  itishis,  sons  of  Dharma 
and  Ahinsa.  The  names  are  sometimes  applied  to  K?'ish72a 
and  to  K?*ish7ia  and  Arjuna.  The  Vamana  Pura?za  has  a 
legend  about  them  which  is  alluded  to  in  the  drama  of  Yik- 
ramorva^i.  Their  penances  and  austerities  alarmed  the  gods, 
so  Indra  sent  nymphs  to  inspire  them  with  passion  and  disturb 
their  devotions.  Naraya??a  took  a  flower  and  placed  it  on  his 
thigh.  Immediately  there  sprung  from  it  a  beautiful  nymph 
whose  charms  far  excelled  those  of  the  celestial  nymphs,  and 
made  them  return  to  heaven  filled  "with  shame  and  vexation. 
NarayaTza  sent  this  nymph  to  Indra  with  them,  and  from  her 
having  been  produced  from  the  thigh  {iiru)  of  the  sage,  she  was 
called  Urvasi. 

NARASIXHA-AVATARA.     See  Avatara. 

NARASINHA  PURAATA.     See  Pura?ia. 

NARA-VISHWANA.  'A  man-devouror;'  a  Rakshasa  or 
other  malignant  being. 

NARAYAA^A.  i.  Tlie  son  of  Xara,  the  original  man,  and 
often  identified  or  coupled  with  Xara.  2.  The  creator  Brahma, 
who,  according  to  jManu,  was  so  called  because  the  waters  (nam) 


NARMADA—NIDHL  221 

were  his  first  ayana  or  place  of  motion.  Tlie  name  is  found  for 
the  first  time  in  the  /S'atapatha  Brahma?? a.  Tlie  name  as  com- 
monly used  applies  to  Vish^iii,  and  is  that  under  which  he  was 
first  worshipped. 

NARMADA.  The  Nerbndda  river,  which  is  esteemed  holy. 
The  personified  river  is  variously  represented  as  being  daughter 
of  a  i?ishi  named  Mekala  (from  whom  she  is  called  Mekala  and 
Mekala-kanya),  as  a  daughter  of  the  moon,  as  a  '  mind-born 
daughter '  of  the  Somapas,  and  as  sister  of  the  I^agas.  It  was 
she  who  brought  Purukutsa  to  the  aid  of  the  Kagas  against  the 
Gandharvas,  and  the  grateful  snake-gods  made  her  name  a  charm 
against  the  venom  of  snakes.  According  to  the  Yishwu  Pura^za, 
she  had  a  son  by  Purukutsa  who  was  named  Trasadasyu.  The 
Matsya  Pura?ia  gives  Du/i-saha  as  the  name  of  her  husband. 
The  Hari-vansa  is  inconsistent  with  itself.  In  one  place  it 
makes  her  wife  of  Purukutsa  and  mother  of  Trasadasyu ;  in 
another  it  makes  her  the  wife  of  Trasadasyu.  She  is  also  called 
Eeva  and  Purva-ganga,  and,  as  a  daughter  of  the  moon,  Indu-ja 
and  Somodbhava. 

NASATYA.  Name  of  one  of  the  A.swins.  It  is  also  used 
in  the  plural  for  both  of  them. 

NAYA-RATNA.  The  nine  gems :  pearl,  ruby,  topaz,  dia- 
mond, emerald,  lapis  lazuli,  coral,  sapphire,  and  one  not  identified 
called  Go-meda.  The  nine  gems  of  the  court  of  Yikrama,  pro- 
bably meaning  Yikramaditya,  whose  era  the  Samvat  begins  in 
56  B.C.  A  verse  gives  their  names  as  Dhanwantari,  Kshapa?iaka, 
Amara  Sinlia,  /S'anku,  Yetala-bha/^/a,  Gha/^a-karpara,  Kali-dasa, 
Yaraha-mihira,  Yararuchi.  The  date  of  Yikramaditya  is  by  no 
means  settled.  Bhau  Daji  endeavours  to  identify  Yikrama  with 
Harsha  Yikramaditya,  who  lived  in  the  middle  of  the  sixth 
century. 

NIDAGHA.  A  Brahman,  son  of  Pulastya,  who  dwelt  "  at 
Yira-nagara,  a  large  handsome  city  on  the  banks  of  the  Devika 
river  "  (the  Gogra).  He  was  a  discij^le  of  the  sage  ^ibhu,  and 
when  iiibhu  went  to  visit  his  discij^le,  Nidagha  entertained  him 
reverentially,  iitbhu  instructed  him  in  divine  knowledge  until 
he  learned  to  "  behold  aU  things  as  the  same  with  himself,  and, 
perfect  in  holy  knowledge,  obtained  final  liberation." 

JSTID ANA-SUTRA.  An  old  work  upon  the  metres  of  the  Yedas. 

NIDHI.     *  A  treasure.'     Nine  treasures  belonging  to  the  god 


222  NIDRA—NIMT. 

Kuvera.  Each  of  tliem  is  personified  or  has  a  guardian  spirit, 
which  is  an  object  of  worship  among  the  Tantrikas.  The  nature 
of  these  Nidliis  is  not  clearly  understood.  See  a  note  by  Wilson 
on  verse  534  of  the  Megha-diita,  Collected  Works,  iv.  379. 
Their  names  are  Kachchhapa,  Mukunda,  ISTanda  (or  Kunda), 
Kharba,  ]Makara,  Xila,  ^ankha,  Padma,  and  Maha-padma.  The 
Xidliis  are  called  also  JSTidhana,  ISTikara,  and  ^S'evadlii. 

NIDRA.  '  Sleep.'  Sometimes  said  to  be  a  female  form  of 
Brahma,  at  others  to  have  been  produced  at  the  churning  of  the 
ocean. 

KIGHAiVrU,  NIGHAiV^rUKA.  A  glossary,  especially  of 
synonyms  and  obsolete  and  obscure  Yedic  terms.  There  was 
at  least  one  work  of  this  kind  before  the  days  of  Yaska.  Bee 
iS^irukta. 

XIKASHA.  A  female  demon,  the  mother  of  Ravawa.  The 
mother  of  the  carnivorous  imps  called  Pisitasanas,  or  by  their 
metronymic  JSTaikusheyas  and  Kikashatmajas. 

KIKUMBHA.  I.  A  Rakshasa  who  fought  against  Rama.  He 
was  son  of  Kumbha-karwa.  2.  An  Asura  who,  according  to  the 
Hari-vansa,  received  the  boon  from  Brahma  that  he  should  die 
only  by  the  hands  of  Vish7iu.  He  was  king  of  Sha^-pura  and 
had  great  magical  powers,  so  that  he  could  multiply  himself  into 
many  forms,  though  he  commonly  assumed  only  three.  He  car- 
ried off  the  daughters  of  Brahma-datta,  the  friend  of  K?'ish?2a, 
and  that  hero  attacked  him  and  killed  him  under  different 
forms  more  than  once,  but  he  was  eventually  slain  outright  by 
Kr/sh?za,  and  his  city  of  Sha^pura  was  given  to  BrahmJi- 
datta. 

NILA,  '  Blue.'  I.  A  mythic  range  of  mountains  north  of 
Meru.  2.  A  mountain  range  in  Orissa.  3.  A  monkey  ally  of 
Rama.     4.     A  Pa7if?ava  warrior  killed  by  Aswatthaman." 

NILA-KAN7TIA.  '  Blue  tliroat.'  An  epithet  of  AS'iva.  See 
^S'iva. 

NIML  Son  of  Iksliwaku,  and  founder  of  the  dynasty  of 
INIitliila,  He  was  cursed  by  the  sage  Vasish/ha  to  lose  his  cor- 
poreal form,  and  he  retorted  the  imprecation  ujDon  the  sage. 
]jotli  abandoned  the  bodily  condition.  Yasish/ha  was  born 
again  as  the  issue  of  ^litra  and  Yaru?za,  but  "  tlio  corpse  of 
Nimi  was  preserved  from  decay  by  being  embalmed  with  fra- 
grant oils  and  resins,  and  it  remained  as  entire  as  if  it  were 


NIRNAYA-SINDHU—NISHADA.  223 

immortal. "  The  gods  were  willing  to  restore  liim  to  bodily  life, 
but  Nimi  declined,  declaring  that  the  separation  of  soul  and 
body  was  so  distressing  that  he  would  never  resume  a  corporeal 
shape  and  become  liable  to  it  again.  "  To  this  desire  the  gods 
assented,  and  Nimi  was  j^laced  by  them  in  the  eyes  of  all 
living  creatures,  in  consequence  of  which  their  eyelids  are  ever 
opening  and  shutting." — Vishnu  Pur  ana.  A  wink  of  the  eye 
is  called  nimisha,  and  the  legend  was  probably  built  upon  the 
resemblance  of  the  two  w^ords. 

Il^IRiVAYA-SINDHU.  A  work  on  religious  ceremonies  and 
law  by  Kamalakara.  It  has  been  printed  at  Bombay  and  Benares. 

NIRi^/TI.  'Death,  decay.'  Death  personified  as  a  god- 
dess ;  sometimes  regarded  as  the  wife  and  sometimes  as  the 
daughter  of  A-dharma.     One  of  the  Rudras. 

NIRUKTA.  '  Etymology,  glossary.'  One  of  the  Vedangas. 
The  Nirukta  is  devoted  to  the  explanation  of  difficult  Vedic 
words.  The  only  work  of  the  kind  now  known  to  us  is  that  of 
Yaska,  who  was  a  predecessor  of  Pa7^ini ;  but  such  works  were 
no  doubt  numerous,  and  the  names  of  seventeen  writers  of 
Niruktas  are  mentioned  as  having  preceded  Yaska.  The 
Nirukta  consists  of  three  parts  : — (i.)  Israigha?«-/uka,  a  collection  of 
synonymous  words  ;  (2.)  Naigama,  a  collection  of  words  peculiar 
to  the  Vedas ;  (3.)  Daivata,  words  relating  to  deities  and  sacri- 
fices. These  are  mere  lists  of  words,  and  are  of  themselves  of 
little  value.  They  may  have  been  compiled  by  Yaska  himself, 
or  he  may  have  found  them  ready  to  his  hand.  The  real  Nirukta, 
the  valuable  portion  of  the  work,  is  Yaska's  commentary  which 
follows.  In  this  he  explains  the  meaning  of  words,  enters  into 
ethnological  investigations,  and  quotes  passages  of  the  Vedas 
in  illustration.  These  are  valuable  from  their  acknowledged 
antiquity,  and  as  being  the  oldest  known  examples  of  a  Vedic 
gloss.  They  also  throw  a  light  upon  the  scientific  and  religious 
condition  of  their  times,  but  the  extreme  brevity  of  their  style 
makes  them  obscure  and  difficult  to  understand.  The  text  of 
the  Nirukta  has  been  published  by  Roth. 

NISHADA.  A  mountain  tribe  dwelling  in  the  Vindhya 
mountains,  said  to  have  been  produced  from  the  thigh  of  Yena, ; 
the  Bhils  or  foresters,  and  barbarians  in  general  (See  Yena.) 
Any  outcast,  especially  the  offspring  of  a  Brahman  father  and 
*S'iidra  mother. 


224  NISHADHA—OM. 

NISHADHA.  I ,  A  mythic  range  of  mountains  lying  soiitli  of 
Meru,  but  sometimes  described  as  on  the  east.  It  is  north  of  the 
Hima-laya.      2.  The  country  of  Nala,  probably  the  Bhil  country. 

NISH  JIGRL     In  the  i?ig-veda,  the  mother  of  Indra. 

NIaS'UMBHA.     An  Asura  killed  by  Durga.     See  >S'umbha. 

NiTI-MANJARl  A  work  on  ethics  by  Dya  Dwiveda, 
exemplified  by  stories  and  legends  with  special  reference  to  the 
Yedas.  Some  specimens  are  given  in  the  Indian  Antiquary, 
vol.  V. 

NITI-aS'ASTRAS.  Works  on  morals  and  polit}^,  consisting 
either  of  proverbs  and  wise  maxims  in  verse,  or  of  stories  and 
fables  inculcating  some  moral  precept  and  illustrating  its  effects. 
These  fables  are  generally  in  prose  interspersed  with  pithy 
maxims  in  verse. 

NIVATA-KAVxiCHAS.  '  Clothed  in  impenetrable  armour.' 
A  class  of  Daityas  descended  from  Prahlada,  "  whose  spirits 
were  purified  by  rigid  austerity."  According  to  the  Mahil- 
bharata  they  were  30,000,000  in  number,  and  dwelt  in  the 
depths  of  the  sea.     They  were  destroyed  by  Arjuna. 

NitJ-SINHA.  The  Nara-sinha  or  man-lion  incarnation.  See 
Avatara. 

Ni^J-SIXHA  PURAATA.     See  Pura??a. 

Ni^/-SINHA  TAPANI.  An  Upanishad  in  which  Yishwu  is 
worshipped  under  his  form  Nri-sinha.  Published  with  the  com- 
mentary of  /Sankaracharya  in  the  Bihliotheca  Inclica. 

NYAYA.     The  logical  school  of  philosophy.     See  Darsana. 

]SrYAYA-DAR>SAXA,  NYAYA-SUTRA-V7?/TTL  Works 
of  Gotama  on  the  Xyaya  pliilosophy.      They  have  been  printed. 

Oi)R,A.     The  country  of  Orissa     A  man  of  that  country. 

OM.  A  word  of  solemn  invocation,  affirmation,  benediction, 
and  consent,  so  sacred  that  when  it  is  uttered  no  one  must  hear 
it.  The  word  is  used  at  the  commencement  of  prayers  and  re- 
ligious ceremonies,  and  is  generally  placed  at  the  beginning  of 
books.  It  is  a  compound  of  the  three  letters  a,  u,  m,  which  are 
typical  of  the  three  A^edas  ;  and  it  is  declared  in  the  XJpanishads, 
where  it  first  appears,  to  have  a  mystic  power  and  to  be  worthy 
of  the  deepest  meditation.  In  later  times  the  monosyllable  re- 
presents the  Hindu  triad  or  union  of  the  three  gods,  a  being 
Vish?iu,  w  /S'iva,  and  m  Brahma,  This  monosyllable  is  called 
Udgitha, 


OMKARA—PAHLAVA,  225 

OMKAEA.  The  sacred  monosyllable  Om.  Name  of  one  of 
the  twelve  great  lingas.     8ee,  Linga. 

OSHADHI-PRASTHA.  'The  place  of  medicinal  herbs.' 
A  city  in  the  Himalaya  mentioned  in  the  Kumara-sambhava. 

OSHI'HA-KARTVAKAS.  A  people  whose  lips  extended  to 
their  ears,  mentioned  in  the  Maha-bhilrata. 

PAD  A.  The  Pada  text  of  the  Yedas,  or  of  any  other  work, 
is  one  in  which  each  word  {pada)  stands  separate  and  distinct, 
not  joined  with  the  next  according  to  the  rules  of  sandhi  (coali- 
tion).    See  Pa/ha. 

PADMA,  PADMAYATL     A  name  of  Lakshmi. 

PADjMAVATI.  Name  of  a  city.  It  would  seem,  from  the 
mention  made  of  it  in  the  drama  Malati  Madhava,  to  lie  in  the 
Vindhya  mountains. 

PAD  MA -K  ALP  A.   The  last  expired  kalpa  or  year  of  Brahma. 

PADMA- PUR AJVA,  PADMA-PURAYA.  This  Pura^ia 
generally  stands  second  in  the  list  of  PuraTias,  and  is  thus  de- 
scribed : — "  That  which  contains  an  account  of  the  period  when 
the  world  was  a  golden  lotos  (padma),  and  of  all  the  occurrences 
of  that  time,  is,  therefore,  called  Padma  by  the  wise.  It  con- 
tains 55,000  stanzas."  The  work  is  divided  into  five  books  or 
Kha?2t/as  : — "  (i.)  Srish/i  Kha?Z(/a,  or  section  on  creation  ;  (2.) 
Bhiimi  Kha?Z(ia,  on  the  earth  ;  (3.)  Swarga  Kha?2(ia,  on  heaven; 
(4.)  Patala  Kha»(^a,  on  the  regions  below  the  earth;  (5.)  Uttara 
Khaw/a,  last  or  supplementary  chapter.  There  is  also  current 
a  sixth  division,  the  Kriya-yoga-sara,  a  treatise  on  the  jDractice 
of  devotion."  These  denominations  of  the  various  divisions 
convey  but  an  imperfect  and  partial  notion  of  their  heterogene- 
ous contents,  and  it  seems  probable  that  the  different  sections 
are  distinct  works  associated  together  under  one  title.  There  is  no 
reason  to  consider  any  of  them  as  older  than  the  twelfth  century. 
The  tone  of  the  whole  Pura?za  is  strongly  Yaish?2ava ;  that  of  the 
last  section  especially  so.  In  it  5'iva  is  represented  as  explain- 
ing to  Parvati  the  nature  and  attributes  of  Vish7?u,  and  in  the 
end  the  two  join  in  adoration  of  that  deity.  A  few  chapters 
have  been  printed  and  translated  into  Latin  by  Wollheim. 

PAHL AVA.  Name  of  a  people.  Manu  places  the  Pahlavas 
among  the  northern  nations,  and  perhaps  the  name  is  connected 
with  the  word  Pahlavi,  i.e.,  Persian.  They  let  their  beards  grow 
by  command  of  King  Sagara.     According  to  ]Manu,  they  were 

p 


225  PAIJA  VANA—PANCHALL 

Ivshatriyas  wlio  had  become  outcasts,  but  the  Malia-bliarata  says 
they  were  created  from  the  tail  of  Yasish/ha's  cow  of  fortune  ; 
and  the  Kamayaria  states  that  they  sprang  from  her  breath. 
They  are  also  called  Pahnavas. 

PAIJAYAXA.  A  name  of  the  King  Sudas,  his  j^atronymic 
as  son  of  Pijavana. 

PAILA.  A  learned  man  who  was  appointed  in  ancient  days 
to  collect  the  hymns  of  the  i^ig-veda.  He  arranged  it  in  two 
parts,  and  must  have  been  a  coadjutor  of  Yeda  Yyasa. 

PAKA-5'ASAXA.  A  name  of  Indra,  and  of  Arjuna  as  de- 
scended from  Indra. 

PALAKAPYA.  An  ancient  sage  who  wrote  upon  medicine, 
and  is  supposed  to  have  been  an  incarnation  of  Dhanwantari. 

PA]\IPA.  A  river  which  rises  in  the  ^ishyamuka  mountain 
and  falls  into  the  Tungabhadra  below  AnagundL  Also  a  lake 
in  the  same  locality. 

PAXCHA-CHUDA.     A  name  of  Eambha. 

PAXCHAJAXA.  I.  Xame  of  a  demon  who  lived  in  the  sea 
in  the  form  of  a  conch-shell.  He  seized  the  son  of  Sandipani, 
under  whom  K?*ish?ia  learnt  the  use  of  arms.  KrisliTza  rescued 
the  boy,  killed  the  demon,  and  afterwards  used  the  conch-shell 
for  a  horn.      2.  A  name  of  Asamanjas  (q.v.). 

PAXCHAJAXYA.  K7-ishwa's  conch,  formed  from  the  shell 
of  the  sea-demon  Panchajana. 

PAXCHALA.  Xame  of  a  country.  Prom  the  Malia- 
bhrirata  it  would  seem  to  have  occupied  the  Lower  Doab ;  Manu 
places  it  near  Kanauj.  It  has  sometimes  been  identified  with 
the  Panjab,  and  with  "  a  little  territory  in  the  more  immediate 
neighbourhood  of  Hastinapur."  AYilson  says,  "A  country  ex- 
tending north  and  west  from  Dellii,  from  the  foot  of  the  Hima- 
layas to  the  Chambal."  It  was  divided  into  Xorthern  and 
Southern  Panchalas,  and  the  Ganges  separated  tliem.  X^unning- 
ham  considers  Xorth  Panchrda  to  be  Rohilkliand,  and  South 
Panchala  the  Gangetic  Doab.  The  capital  of  the  former  was 
Ahi-chhatra,  wliose  ruins  are  found  near  Eamnagar,  and  of  tlie 
latter  Kampilya,  identical  with  the  modern  Kampila,  on  the  old 
Ganges  between  Badaun  and  Farrukhabad. 

PAXCHA-LAKSHAYA.  The  five  distinguishing  character- 
istics of  a  Pura?za.     See  Pura?ia. 

PAXCHALI.     DraupadI  as  princess  of  Panchrda. 


PANCHANANA—PAND  YA.  227 

• 

PAXCHAN'ANA.  *  Five-faced.'  An  epithet  applied  to 
A^iva. 

PAXCHAPSAKAS.     Fame  of  a  lake.     See  Manda-kami. 

PAXCHA-aS'IKHA.  One  of  the  earliest  professors  of  the 
Sankhya  philosophy. 

PAXCHA-TANTRA.  A  famous  collection  of  tales  and 
fables  in  five  (pancha)  books  (tcmtra).  It  was  compiled  by  a 
Brahman  named  Vish?zu-5arman,  about  the  end  of  the  fifth 
century  a.d.,  for  the  edification  of  the  sons  of  a  king,  and  was 
the  original  of  the  better-known  Hitopadesa.  This  work  has 
reappeared  in  very  many  languages  both  of  the  East  and  West, 
and  has  been  the  source  of  many  familiar  and  widely  known 
stories.  It  was  translated  into  Pahlavi  or  old  Persian  by  order 
of  Xaushirvan  in  the  sixth  century  a.d.  In  the  ninth  century 
it  appeared  in  Arabic  as  Kalila  0  Damna,  then,  or  before,  it  was 
translated  into  Hebrew,  Syriac,  Turkish,  and  Greek ;  and  from 
these,  versions  were  made  into  all  the  languages  of  Europe,  and 
it  became  familiar  in  England  as  Pilpay's  Fables  (Fables  of 
Bidj)ai).  In  modern  Persia  it  is  the  basis  of  the  Anwar-i 
Suhaili  and  lyar-i  Danish.  The  latter  has  reappeared  in  Hin- 
dustani as  the  Khirad-afroz.  The  stories  are  popular  through- 
out Hindustan,  and  have  found  their  way  into  most  of  the  lan- 
guages and  dialects.  There  are  various  editions  of  the  text  and 
several  translations. 

PAXCHAYATl.  A  place  in  the  great  southern  forest  near 
the  sources  of  the  Godavari,  where  Rama  passed  a  long  period 
of  his  banishment.  It  has  been  proposed  to  identify  it  with 
the  modern  Xasik,  because  Lakshma?ia  cut  off  Siirpa-nakha's 
nose  (ndsika)  at  Panchavati. 

PAXCHAVIX/S'A.     See  Prauc/lia  Brrdima^^a. 

PAXCHA-Vi^/KSHA.  'Five  trees.'  The  five  trees  of 
Swarga,  named  Mandara,  Parijataka,  Santana,  Kalpa-v?*iksha, 
and  Hari-chandana. 

PAXCHOPAKHYAXA.     The  Pancha-tantra. 

PAA^DAA'AS.     The  descendants  of  Fsmdii. 

TANBJJ.  'The  pale.'  Brother  of  Dhn'ta-rash/ra,  king  of 
Hastina-pura  and  father  of  the  Pa?i(iavas  or  Tandu  princes.  See 
IMaha-bharata. 

PAJV7)YA.  Tandjo.,  Chola,  and  Chera  were  three  kingdoms  in 
the  south  of  the  Peninsula  for  some  centuries  before  and  after  the 


228  PANINI. 

Christian  era.  Pfiw^Zya  was  well  known  to  the  Romans  as  the 
kingdom  of  King  Pandion,  who  is  said  to  have  sent  ambassadors 
on  two  different  occasions  to  Augustus  Csesar.  Its  capital  was 
jMadura,  the  Southern  Mathura.  PaTZC^ya  seems  to  have  fallen 
under  the  ascendancy  of  the  Chola  kings  in  the  seventh  or 
eighth  centur}'. 

PAiVIXI.  The  celebrated  grammarian,  author  of  the  work 
called  Pa?zinlyam.  This  is  the  standard  authority  on  Sanskrit 
grammar,  and  it  is  held  in  such  respect  and  reverence  that  it  is 
considered  to  have  been  written  by  inspiration.  So  in  old  times 
Pawini  was  placed  among  the  itishis,  and  in  more  modern  days 
he  is  represented  to  have  received  a  large  portion  of  his  work  by 
direct  inspiration  from  the  god  ;Siva.  It  is  also  said  that  he 
was  so  dull  a  child  that  he  was  expelled  from  school,  but  the 
favour  of  >S'iva  placed  him  foremost  in  knowledge.  He  was  not 
the  first  grammarian,  for  he  refers  to  the  works  of  several  Avho 
preceded  him.  The  grammars  which  have  been  Avritten  since 
his  time  are  numberless,  but  although  some  of  them  are  of  great 
excellence  and  much  in  use,  Pamni  still  reigns  suj^reme,'  and 
his  rules  are  incontestable.  "  His  work,"  says  Professor  Wil- 
liams, "  is  perhaps  the  most  original  of  all  productions  of  the 
Hindu  mind."  The  work  is  written  in  the  form  of  Siitras  or 
aphorisms,  of  which  it  contains  3996,  arranged  in  eight  (ashta) 
chapters  {adhydya),  from  which  the  work  is  sometimes  called 
Ash/adhyayi.  These  aphorisms  are  exceedingly  terse  and  com- 
plicated. Special  training  and  study  are  required  to  reach  their 
meaning.  Colebrooke  remarks,  that  "  the  endless  jDursuit  of 
exceptions  and  limitations  so  disjoins  the  general  precepts,  that 
the  reader  cannot  keep  in  view  their  intended  connection  and 
mutual  relations.  He  wanders  in  an  intricate  maze,  and  the  key 
of  the  labyrinth  is  continually  slipping  from  his  hand."  But  it 
has  been  -well  observed  that  there  is  a  great  difference  between 
the  European  and  Hindu  ideas  of  a  grammar.  In  Europe,  gram- 
mar has  hitherto  been  looked  upon  as  only  a  means  to  an  end, 
the  medium  through  which  a  knowledge  of  language  and  litera- 
ture is  acquired.  With  the  Vsmdii,  grammar  was  a  science  ;  it 
was  studied  for  its  own  sake,  and  investigated  with  the  most 
minute  criticism  ;  hence,  as  Goldstiicker  says,  "  Pa?i^ini's  work  is 
indeed  a  kii>d  of  natural  history  of  the  Sanskrit  language." 
PaTiini  was  a  native  of  /Salatura,  in  the  country  of  Gandhara, 


PANTS— PARASARA.  229 

west  of  the  Indus,  and  so  is  known  as  /STdottariya.  He  is 
described  as  a  descendant  of  PaTzin  and  grandson  of  Devala. 
His  mother's  name  was  Dakshi,  who  probably  belonged  to  the 
race  of  Daksha,  and  he  bears  the  metronymic  Daksheya.  He 
is  also  called  Ahika.  The  time  when  he  lived  is  uncertain,  but  it 
is  supposed  to  have  been  about  four  centuries  B.C.  Goldstiicker 
carries  him  back  to  the  sixth  century,  but  "Weber  is  inclined 
to  place  him  considerably  later.  Pacini's  grammar  has  been 
printed  by  Bbhtlingk,  and  also  in  India.  See  Goldstlicker's 
Pdnini,  his  Place  in  Literature.^' 

PAiV^IS.  'Niggards.'  In  the  jRig-veda,  " the  senseless,  false, 
evil-speaking,  unbelieving,  unpraising,  unworshipping  Pawis  were 
Dasyus  or  envious  demons  who  used  to  steal  cows  and  hide  them 
in  caverns. "  They  are  said  to  have  stolen  the  cows  recovered  by 
ASarama  (q.v.). 

PANISTAGA.     A  serpent,  snake.     See  Naga. 

PAPA-PURUSHA.  '  Man  of  sin.'  A  personification  of  all 
wickedness  in  a  human  form,  of  which  all  the  members  are  great 
sins.  The  head  is  brahmanicide,  the  arm  cow-killing,  the  nose 
woman-murder,  &c. 

PARADAS.  A  barbarous  people  dwelling  in  the  north-west. 
Manu  says  they  were  Kshatriyas  degraded  to  be  /S'u.dras. 

PARAMAESHIS  (Parama-rishis).  The  great  i^ishis.  See 
Rishi. 

PARAMATMAK     The  supreme  soul  of  the  universe. 

PARAMESHTHIK  'Who  stands  in  the  highest  place.' 
A  title  applied  to  any  superior  god  and  to  some  distinguished 
mortals.  A  name  used  in  the  A'^edas  for  a  son  or  a  creation  of 
Prajapati. 

PARA>S'ARA.  A  Yedic  i^ishi  to  whom  some  hymns  of  the 
jRig-veda  are  attributed.  He  was  a  discij)le  of  Kapila,  and  he 
received  the  Vislwiu  PuraTza  from  Pulastya  and  taught  it  to 
Maitreya.  He  was  also  a  writer  on  Dharma-sastra,  and  texts  of 
his  are  often  cited  in  books  on  law.  SiDcculations  as  to  his  era 
differ  widely,  from  575  B.C.  to  1391  B.C.,  and  cannot  be  trusted. 
By  an  amour  with  Satyavati  he  was  father  of  Ki'ishTia  DwaijDa- 
yana,  the  Yyasa  or  arranger  of  the  Vedas.  According  to  the 
Nirukta,  he  was  son  of  Vasish/ha,  but  the  Maha-bharata  and 
the  VisliTiu  PuraTza  make  him  the  son  of  ♦S'aktri  and  gTandson  of 
Vasish/ha.    The  legend  of  his  birth,  as  given  in  the  Maha-bharata, 


230  PARASARA-PURANA—PARASU-RAMA, 

is  tliat  King  Kalmaslia-ptida  met  with  >Saktri  in  a  narrow  path, 
and  desired  him  to  get  out  of  the  w^av.  The  sage  refused,  and  the 
Raja  struck  him  with  his  whip.  Thereupon  the  sage  cursed  the 
Raja  so  that  he  became  a  man-eating  Eaksliasa.  In  this  state 
he  ate  up  ^Saktri,  whose  wife,  Ad?"/5yant!,  afterwards  gave  birtli  to 
Parasara.  A^'lien  this  chiki  grew  up  and  heard  the  particulars 
of  his  father's  death,  he  instituted  a  sacrifice  for  the  destruction 
of  all  the  Rakshasas,  but  was  dissuaded  from  its  completion  by 
Yasish/ha  and  other  sages.  As  he  desisted,  he  scattered  the 
remaining  sacrificial  fire  upon  the  northern  face  of  the  Himalaya, 
where  it  still  blazes  forth  at  the  phases  of  the  moon,  consuming 
Rakshasas,  forests,  and  mountains. 

PARA6'ARA-PURAiYA.     See  Purawa. 

PARA^S'IKAS.     Parsikas  or  Farsikas,  i.e.,  Persians. 

PARA6'U-RAMA.  '  Rama  with  the  axe.'  The  first  Rama 
and  the  sixth  Avatara  of  Vish?iu.  He  was  a  Brahman,  the  fifth 
son  of  Jamad-agni  and  ReTiuka.  By  his  father's  side  he  descended 
from  Bh?-igu,  and  was,  'par  excellence,  the  Bhargava;  by  his 
mother's  side  he  belonged  to  the  royal  race  of  the  Kusikas.  He 
became  manifest  in  the  world  at  the  beginning  of  the  Treta- 
yuga,  for  the  purpose  of  repressing  the  tyranny  of  the  Kshatriya 
or  regal  caste.  His  story  is  told  in  the  Maha-bharata  and  in  the 
Pura72as.  He  also  ap23ears  in  the  Ramaya?za,  but  chiefly  as  an 
opponent  of  Rama-chandra.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  he 
instructed  Arjuna  in  the  use  of  arms,  and  had  a  combat  with 
]>hlshma,  in  which  both  suffered  equally.  He  is  also  represented 
as  being  present  at  the  great  war  council  of  the  Kaurara  princes. 
This  Para.su-rama,  the  sixth  Avatara  of  Yishwu,  appeared  in 
the  world  before  Rama  or  Rrima-chandra,  the  seventh  Avatara, 
but  they  were  both  living  at  the  same  time,  and  the  elder  incar- 
nation showed  some  jealousy  of  the  younger.  The  ]\Ialia-bliarata 
represents  Parasu-rama  as  being  struck  senseless  by  Rama- 
chandra,  and  the  Ramavawa  relates  how^  Parasu-rilma,  who  was 
a  follower  of  /S'iva,  felt  aggrieved  by  Rama's  breaking  the  bow 
of  ^iva,  and  challenged  him  to  a  trial  of  strength.  This  ended 
in  his  defeat,  and  in  some  way  led  to  his  being  "  excluded  from 
a  seat  in  the  celestial  world."  In  early  life  Para.su-rama  was 
under  the  protection  of  /Siva,  who  instructed  him  in  the  use  of 
arms,  and  gave  him  the  parasu,  or  axe,  from  which  he  is  named. 
The  first  act  recorded  of  him  by  the  Maha-bhrirata  is  that,  by 


PARASU-RAMA—PARIJATA.  231 

command  of  liis  fatlier,  lie  cut  off  the  head  of  his  mother,  Re/mka. 
She  had  incensed  her  husband  by  entertaining  impure  tlioughts, 
and  he  called  upon  each  of  his  sons  in  succession  to  kill  her. 
Parasu-rama  alone  obeyed,  and  his  readiness  so  pleased  his  father 
that  he  told  him  to  ask  a  boon.  He  begged  that  his  mother 
might  be  restored  pure  to  life,  and,  for  himself,  that  he  might  be 
invincible  in  single  combat  and  enjoy  lengtli  of  days.  Para.su- 
rama's  hostility  to  the  Kshatriyas  evidently  indicates  a  severe 
struggle  for  the  supremacy  between  them  and  the  Bra-hmans. 
He  is  said  to  have  cleared  the  earth  of  the  Kshatriyas  twenty- 
one  times,  and  to  have  given  the  earth  to  the  Brahmans.  The 
origin  of  his  hostility  to  the  Kshatriyas  is  thus  related : — Karta- 
vlrya,  a  Kshatriya,  and  king  of  the  Haihayas,  had  a  thousand 
arms.  This  king  paid  a  visit  to  the  hermitage  of  Jamad-agni  in 
the  absence  of  that  sage,  and  was  hospitably  entertained  by  his 
wife,  but  when  he  departed  he  carried  off  a  sacrificial  calf  be- 
longing to  their  host.  This  act  so  enraged  Parasu-rama  that  he 
pursued  Karta-vlrya,  cut  off  his  thousand  arms  and  killed  him. 
In  retaliation  the  sons  of  Karta-virya  killed  Jamad-agni,  and  for 
that  murder  Parasu-rama  vowed  vengeance  against  them  and  the 
whole  Kshatrij^a  race.  "  Thrice  seven  times  did  he  clear  the 
earth  of  the  Kshatriya  caste,  and  he  filled  with  their  blood  the 
five  large  lakes  of  Samanta-panchaka."  He  then  gave  the  earth 
to  Kasyapa,  and  retired  to  the  Mahendra  mountains,  where  he 
was  visited  by  Arjuna.  Tradition  ascribes  the  origin  of  the 
country  of  Malabar  to  Parasu-rama.  According  to  one  account 
he  received  it  as  a  gift  from  Yaru?za,  and  according  to  another 
he  drove  back  the  ocean  and  cut  fissures  in  the  Ghats  with  blows 
of  his  axe.  He  is  said  to  have  brought  Brahmans  into  this 
country  from  the  north,  and  to  have  bestowed  the  land  upon 
them  in  expiation  of  the  slaughter  of  the  Kshatriyas.  He  bears 
the  appellations  Kha?2C?a-parasu,  '  who  strikes  with  the  axe,'  and 
Nyaksha,  'inferior.' 

PARAYASU.     ^ee  Raibhya  and  Yava-krita. 

PARIJATA.  The  tree  produced  at  the  churning  of  the 
ocean,  "  and  the  delight  of  the  nymphs  of  heaven,  perfuming  the 
world  with  its  blossoms."  It  was  kept  in  Indra's  heaven,  and 
was  the  pride  of  his  wife  AS'achi,  but  when  K?7"shwa  visited  Indra 
in  Swarga,  his  wife  Satya-bhama  induced  him  to  carry  the  tree 
away,  which  led  to  a  great  fight  between  the  two  gods  and  their 
adherents,  in  which  Indra  was  defeated.     The  tree  was  taken  to 


232  PARIKSHIT—PARTHA. 

Dwaraka  and  planted  there,  but  after  Ivr/sh?ia's  death  it  returned 
to  Indra's  heaven. 

PAKIKSHIT.  Son  of  Abhimanyn  by  his  wife  Uttara, 
grandson  of  Arjuna,  and  father  of  Janamejaya.  He  was  killed 
by  Aswatthaman  in  the  womb  of  his  mother  and  was  born  dead, 
but  he  was  brought  to  life  by  K?i'shrza,  who  blessed  him  and 
cursed  A.swatthaman.  "VVlien  Yudhi-sh^hira  retired  from  the 
world,  Parikshit  succeeded  him  on  the  throne  of  Hastina-pura. 
He  died  from  the  bite  of  a  serpent,  and  the  Bhagavata  Pura7ia 
is  represented  as  having  been  rehearsed  to  him  in  the  interval 
between  the  bite  and  his  death.      Also  written  Parikshit. 

PARIPATRA.  The  northern  part  of  the  Yindhya  range  of 
mountains.  According  to  the  Hari-vansa,  it  was  the  scene  of  the 
combat  between  K?'ish?ia  and  Indra,  and  its  heights  sank  down 
under  the  pressure  of  Iv?ish?2a's  feet.      Also  called  Pariyiitra. 

PARISHAD.  A  college  or  community  of  Bralimans  asso- 
ciated for  the  study  of  the  Vedas. 

PARI>S'ISHTA.  A  supplement  or  appendix.  A  series  of 
works  called  Pari.sish/as  belong  to  the  Yedic  period,  but  they 
are  the  last  of  the  series,  and  indicate  a  transition  state.  They 
"  supply  information  on  theological  or  ceremonial  points  which 
had  been  passed  over  in  the  Sutras,  and  they  treat  everything  in 
a  popular  and  superficial  manner,  as  if  the  time  was  gone  when 
students  would  spend  ten  or  twenty  years  of  their  lives  in 
fathoming  the  mysteries  and  mastering  the  intricacies  of  the 
Erahma7ia  literature." — Max  Muller. 

PARIVRAJAKA.  A  religious  mendicant.  A  Eriihman  in 
the  fourth  stage  of  his  religious  life.      See  Brahman. 

PAR  J  ANY  A.  I.  A  Vedic  deity,  the  rain-god  or  rain  per- 
sonified. Three  hymns  in  the  i^ig-veda  are  addressed  to  this 
deity,  and  one  of  them  is  very  poetical  and  picturesque  in  de- 
scribin^j  rain  and  its  effects.  The  name  is  sometimes  combined 
with  the  word  vdta  (wind),  imrjanyar-vdtaj  referring  probably  to 
the  combined  powers  and  effects  of  rain  and  wind.  In  later 
times  he  is  regarded  as  the  guardian  deity  of  clouds  and  rain, 
and  the  name  is  applied  to  Indra.      2.  One  of  the  Adityas. 

PARSHADA  Any  treatise  on  the  Yedas  produced  in  a 
Parishad  or  Yedic  college. 

PARTHA.  A  son  of  Pntha  or  KuntT.  A  title  applicable  to 
the  three  elder  Pfrnt^avas,  but  especially  used  for  Arjuna, 


PAR  I  'A  TI—PA  TA  NJA  LI.  233 

PARVATI.     '  The  mountaineer.'    A  name  of  the  wife  of  *Siva. 
See  Devi. 

PA/SU-PATI.  '  Lord  of  creatures.'  A  name  of  Riidra  or  of 
one  of  his  manifestations.     See  Rudra. 

PATALA.  The  infernal  regions,  inhabited  by  ISTagas  (ser- 
pents), Daityas,  Danavas,  Yakshas,  and  others.  They  are  seven 
in  number,  and  their  names,  according  to  the  Yish?m  Purawa,  are 
Atala,  Yitala,  ISTitala,  Gabhastimat,  Mahatala,  Sutala,  and  Patala, 
but  these  names  vary  in  different  authorities.  The  Padma 
Pura/ia  gives  the  names  of  the  seven  regions  and  their  respective 
rulers  as  follow  : — (i.)  Atala,  subject  to  Maha-maya  ;  (2.)  Yitala, 
ruled  by  a  form  of  /S'iva  called  Hatakeswara ;  (3. )  Sutala,  ruled 
by  Bali;  (4.)  Talatala,  ruled  by  Maya;  (5.)  Mahatala,  where 
reside  the  great  serpents;  (6.)  Rasatala,  where  the  Daityas  and 
Danavas  dwell;  (7.)  Patala,  the  lowermost,  in  which  Yasuki 
reigns  over  the  chief  NTigas  or  snake-gods.  In  the  /S'iva  Pura?^a 
there  are  eight :  Patala,  Tala,  Atala,  Yitala,  Tala,  Yidhi-patrda, 
;Sarkara-bhiimi,  and  Yijaya.  The  sage  Narada  paid  a  visit  to 
these  regions,  and  on  his  return  to  the  skies  gave  a  glowing  ac- 
count of  them,  declaring  them  to  be  far  more  delightful  than 
Indra's  heaven,  and  abounding  with  every  kind  of  luxury  and 
sensual  gratification. 

PA^ALI-PUTRA.  The  Palibothra  of  the  Greek  writers,  and 
described  by  them  as  being  situated  at  the  confluence  of  the 
Erranaboas  (the  Sone  river)  with  the  Ganges.  It  was  the  capital 
of  the  Kandas,  and  of  the  Maurya  dynasty,  founded  by  Chandra- 
gupta,  which  succeeded  them  as  rulers  of  Magadha.  The  city 
has  been  identified  with  the  modern  Patna ;  for  although  the 
Sone  does  not  now  fall  into  the  Ganges  there,  the  modern 
town  is  smaller  in  extent  than  the  ancient  one,  and  there  is 
good  reason  for  believing  that  the  rivers  have  changed  their 
courses. 

PATAjSTJALA.     The  Yoga  philosophy.     See  Darsana. 

PATANJALI.  The  founder  of  the  Yoga  philosophy.  (,S'^6' 
Darsana.)  The  author  of  the  INIaha-bhashya,  a  celebrated  com- 
mentary on  the  Grammar  of  Pa7iini,  and  a  defence  of  that  work 
against  the  criticisms  of  Katyayana.  He  is  supposed  to  have 
written  about  200  B.C.  Ram  Krish?za  Gopal  Bha?if/arkar,  a  late 
inquirer,  says,  "  He  probably  wrote  the  third  chapter  of  his 
Lhashva  between  144  and  142  B.C."     Weber,  however,  makes 


234  PATHA—PISACHAS. 

liis  (late  to  be  25  A.  D.  He  is  also  called  Gonardlya  and  Gowika- 
putra.  A  legend  accounting  for  liis  name  represents  that  he  fell 
as  a  small  snake  from  heaven  into  the  palm  of  Pa?^ini  {'pata, 
'  fallen ; '  an j all,  '  palm  '). 

PArHA.  '  Reading.'  There  are  three  forms,  called  Pachas, 
in  which  the  Yedic  text  is  read  and  written  : — (i.)  Sanhita- 
pafha,  the  ordinary  form,  in  which  the  words  coalesce  according 
to  the  rules  of  Sandhi ;  (2.)  Pada-j)a/ha,  in  which  each  word 
stands  separate  and  independent;  (3.)  Ivrama-pa/ha,  in  which 
each  word  is  given  twice,  first  joined  with  the  word  preceding 
and  then  with  the  word  following. 

PATTAXA.  '  City.'  Several  great  places  have  been  known 
as  Pattan  or  'the  city.'  Soma-natha  was  Pattan;  Anhalwara 
is  still  known  as  Pattan,  and  there  is  also  Patna. 

PAULOMAS.  Ka.syapa  by  his  wife  Puloma  had  many 
thousand  "  distinguished  Danavas  called  Paulomas,  who  were 
2)owerful,  ferocious,  and  cruel."     They  were  killed  by  Arjuna. 

PAUiVDPtA,  PAUiYi)RAKA.  Belonging  to  the  country  of 
Vwndr^i.     The  conch-shell  of  Bhishma. 

PAUYDRAIvA  A  pretender  who,  on  the  strength  of  being 
a  Yasu-deva,  or  descendant  of  one  named  Yasu-deva,  set  himself 
up  in  opposition  to  K?"isli?ia,  who  was  son  of  Yasu-deva,  and 
assumed  his  style  and  insignia.  He  was  supjiorted  by  the  king 
of  Ka^l  (Benares),  but  he  was  defeated  and  killed  by  K?-/sh?ia, 
and  Benares  was  burnt. 

PAURAYAS.  Descendants  of  Puru  of  the  Lunar  race.  See 
Puru. 

PAYAXA.     '  AVind.'     The  god  of  the  wind.     See  A'ayu. 

PHALGUXA.      I.  A  name  of  Arjuna.      2.  Name  of  a  month. 

PIYDARAKA.  A  watering-place  on  the  coast  of  Gujarat, 
near  Dwaraka,  resorted  to  occasionally  by  K?'/sh?za.  It  still 
survives  as  a  village,  and  is  held  in  veneration.  It  is  about 
twenty  miles  from  the  north-west  extremity  of  the  Peninsula. 

PIXGALA.  I.  The  great  authority  on  the  Chhandas  or 
Prosody  of  the  Yedas.  He  is  suj-jposed  to  have  written  about 
two  centuries  B.C.  2.  Xame  of  one  of  the  serpent  kings  some- 
times identified  with  the  foregoing. 

PIPPALADA.  a  school  of  the  Atharva-veda,  founded  by  a 
snge  of  that  name. 

PI6'ACHAS  (mas.),  PLS'ACHl  (fern.).     Fiends,  evil  spirits, 


PISACHA-LOKA—PITRIS.  235 

placed  by  the  Ycdas  as  lower  than  Rakshasas.  The  vilest  and 
most  malignant  order  of  malevolent  beings.  Accounts  differ  as 
to  their  origin.  The  Brahmawa  and  the  ]\Iaha-bliarata  say  that 
they  vrere  created  by  Brahma,  together  with  the  Asuras  and 
Kakshasas,  from  the  stray  drops  of  water  which  fell  apart  from 
the  drops  out  of  which  gods,  men,  gandharvas,  &c.,  had  been 
jn'oduced.  According  to  Manu  they  sprang  from  the  Prajapatis. 
In  the  Pura?zas  they  are  rej^resented  as  the  offspring  of  Ka.^yapa 
by  his  wife  Krodhavasa,  or  Pi^acha,  or  Ivapisa. 

PI^"ACHA-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

PI>S'ITA>S'ANAS,  PI^S'ITA^S'INS.  Carnivorous  and  cannibal 
imps  descended  from  Nikasha. 

PITA-MAHA.  A  paternal  grandfather.  A  name  of  Brahma 
as  the  gTeat  father  of  all. 

PiTAMBAEA.  '  Clothed  in  yellow  garments.'  A  name  of 
Vish7iu. 

PlrHA-STHANA.  '  Seat,'  or  lit.  '  place  of  a  seat.^  "  Fifty- 
one  places  M'here,  according  to  the  Tantras,  the  limbs  of  Sati 
fell  when  scattered  by  her  husband  AS'iva,  as  he  bore  her  dead 
body  about  and  tore  it  to  pieces  after  she  had  put  an  end.  to  her 
existence  at  Daksha's  sacrifice.  This  part  of  the  legend  seems 
to  be  an  addition  to  the  original  fable,  made  by  the  Tantras,  as 
it  is  not  in  the  Pura?ms.  {See  Dakslia.)  It  bears  some  analogy 
to  the  Egyptian  fable  of  Isis  and  Osiris.  At  the  Pi/ha-sthanas, 
however,  of  Jwala  -  mukhi,  Vindhya  -  vasini.  Kali  -  glia?',  and 
others,  temples  are  erected  to  the  different  forms  of  Devi  or 
Sati,  not  to  the  phallic  emblem  of  Maha-deva,  which,  if  present, 
is  there  as  an  accessory,  not  as  a  jmncipal ;  and  the  chief  object 
of  worship  is  a  figure  of  the  goddess — a  circumstance  in  which 
there  is  an  essential  difference  betw^een  the  temples  of  Durga 
and  the  shrines  of  Osiris." — Wilson. 

PITi^/S.  Patres  ;  the  fathers ;  the  Manes.  This  name  is 
applied  to  three  different  classes  of  beings  : — i.  The  IManes  of 
departed  forefathers,  to  whom  'pindas  (balls  of  rice  and  flour) 
and  water  are  offered  at  stated  periods.  2.  The  ten  Prajapatis 
or  mythical  progenitors  of  the  human  race.  3.  "  According  to 
a  legend  in  the  Hari-vam<Ja  and  in  the  Yayu  Pura?m,  the  first 
Pitris  were  the  sons  of  the  gods.  The  gods  haviug  offended 
Brahma  by  neglecting  to  worship  him,  were  cursed  by  him  to 
become  fools ;  but,  upon  their  repentance,  he  directed  them  to 


235  PITRIS—PITRI-PA  TL 

apply  to  tlieir  sons  for  instruction.  Being  tauglit  accordingly 
the  rites  of  expiation  and  penance  by  tlieir  sons,  they  addressed 
them  as  fathers ;  whence  the  sons  of  the  gods  were  the  first 
Pitris."  The  account  given  of  the  Pit?"is  is  much  the  same  in 
all  the  PuraTzas.  "  They  agree  in  distinguishing  them  into  seven 
classes,  three  of  which  are  without  form,  or  composed  of  intel- 
lectual, not  elementary  substance,  and  assuming  what  forms  they 
please ;  and  four  are  corjDoreal.  When  the  Purawas  come  to  the 
enumeration  of  the  particular  classes,  they  somewhat  differ,  and 
the  accounts  in  all  the  works  are  singularly  imperfect."  The 
incorporeal  Pitris,  according  to  one  enumeration,  are  the  Yaira- 
jas,  Agnishwattas,  and  Barhishads.  The  first  of  these  seem  also 
to  be  called  Subhaswaras,  Somasads,  and  Saumyas.  The  cor- 
poreal are  the  Su-kalas  or  Su-kalins,  Angirasas,  Su-swadlias,  and 
Somapas.  The  Sukalas  are  also  called  Manasas ;  the  Somapas 
are  also  called  Ushmapas  ;  the  Angirasas  seem  also  to  be  called 
Havishmats,  Havirbhiijas,  and  Upahutas ;  and  the  Su-swadlias 
are  apparently  the  same  as  the  Ajyapas  and  Kavyas  or  Kavyas. 
The  Yairajas  are  the  Manes  of  great  ascetics  and  anchorites, 
the  Agnishwattas  are  the  Pit?'is  of  the  gods,  the  Barhishads  of 
demons,  the  Somapas  of  Brahmans,  the  Havishmats  of  Ksha- 
triyas,  the  Ajyapas  of  Vaisyas,  and  the  Su-kalins  of  the  /Sudras ; 
T)ut  one  authority,  the  Hari-van.sa,  makes  the  Somapas  belong 
to  the  /S'udras,  and  the  Su-kalins  to  the  Brahmans,  and  there 
appears  to  be  good  reason  for  this.  Other  names  are  given  by 
Dr.  F.  Hall  from  various  authorities  (Yish^m  Pura?ia,  iii.  339)  : 
Ra-smipas,  Phenapas,  Sudhavats,  Garhapatyas,  Eka5?ingas,  Cha- 
turvedas,  and  Kfdas.  Besides  these  there  are  the  Vyamas, 
'  fumes,'  the  Pitris  of  the  barbarians.  The  i^/g-veda  and  Manu 
make  two  independent  classes,  the  Agni-dagdlias  and  the  An- 
agni-dagdhas,  those  '  who  when  alive  kept  up  (or  did  not  keep 
uj))  the  household  flame,'  and  presented  (or  did  not  present) 
oblations  with  fire.  The  Vish?m  Purawa  makes  the  liarhishads 
identical  with  the  former,  and  the  Agnishwiittas  with  the  latter. 
Yama,  god  of  the  dead,  is  king  of  the  Pitris,  and  Swadha, 
'  oblation,'  is  sometimes  said  to  be  their  mother,  at  others  tlieir 
wife. — WiUon,  Vishnu  Furdna,  in.  157,339-    /St'd  Manu,  iii.  192. 

PIT7i'/-L0KA.     See  Loka. 

PITA^/-PATL     'The  lord  of  the  Manes.'     Yama,  judge  of 
the  dead. 


PIYADASI—PRADYUMNA.  237 

PIYADA6T.     See  Asoka. 

PRABHASA.  A  place  of  pilgrimage  on  the  coast  of  Gujarat, 
near  to  Dwarakil,  and  also  near  to  the  temple  of  Soma-natha. 

PRABHAVATl     Wife  of  Pradyumna  (q.v.). 

PRABODHA-CHANDRODAYA.  'The  rise  of  the  moon 
of  knowledge.'  A  philosophical  drama  by  IvWsh?za  Misra,  who 
is  supposed  to  have  lived  about  the  twelfth  century.  It  has 
been  translated  into  English  by  Dr.  Taylor,  and  into  German 
by  Rosenkranz  and  by  Hirzel. 

PRACHAA^i^A-PAA^DAYA.  '  The  incensed  Pa7?^avas.'  A 
drama  in  two  acts  by  Raja  ^Sekhara,  the  main  incident  in  which 
is  the  outrage  of  Draupadi  by  the  assembled  Kaurava  princes. 

PRACHETAS.  i.  One  of  the  Prajapatis.  2.  An  ancient  sage 
and  law^giver.  3.  The  ten  Prachetasas  were  sons  of  Prachina- 
barhis  and  great-grandsons  of  Prithu,  and,  according  to  the 
Yishmi  Pura?2a,  they  passed  ten  thousand  years  in  the  great 
ocean,  deep  in  meditation  upon  Yish?zu,  and  obtained  from  him 
the  boon  of  becoming  the  progenitors  of  mankind.  They  took 
to  wife  Marisha,  daughter  of  Kawc^u,  and  Daksha  was  their  son. 
See  Daksha. 

PRACHYAS.  The  people  of  the  east;  those  east  of  the 
Ganges  ;  the  Prasii  of  the  Greeks. 

PRADHAXA.  jMatter.  Primary  matter,  or  nature  as  opposed 
to  spirit. 

PRADYUM^N'A.  A  son  of  Kn*sh?2a  by  Rukmim.  "V^Hien  a 
child  only  six  days  old,  he  was  stolen  by  the  demon  >Sambara 
and  thrown  into  the  ocean.  There  he  was  swallowed  by  a  fish, 
Avhich  was  afterwards  caught  and  carried  to  the  house  of  iS'ambara. 
When  the  fish  M^as  opened,  a  beautiful  child  was  discovered,  and 
Maya-devi  or  Maya-vati,  the  mistress  of  iS'ambara's  household, 
took  him  under  her  care.  The  sage  Narada  informed  her  who 
the  child  was,  and  she  reared  him  carefully.  When  he  grew  up 
she  fell  in  love  with  him,  and  informed  him  who  he  was  and 
how  he  had  been  carried  ofi"  by  >S'ambara.  He  defied  the  demon  to 
battle,  and  after  a  long  conflict  slew  him.  Then  he  flew  through 
the  air  with  Mayavati,  and  alighted  in  the  inner  apartments  of  his 
father's  palace.  Krishna  presented  him  to  his  mother  RukmiTzT. 
"  with  the  virtuous  Mayavati  his  wife,"  declaring  her  really  to 
be  the  goddess  Rati.  Pradyumna  also  married  Ivakudmati,  the 
daughter  of  Rukmin,  and  had  by  her  a  son  named  Aniruddha. 


238  PRAD YUMNA-VIJA  YA—PRAHLADA. 

Pradyumna  was  killed  at  Dwiiraka  in  tlie  presence  of  liis  father 
during  a  di-unken  brawL  Though  Pradyumna  passed  as  the 
son  of  Krish?ia,  he  was,  according  to  the  legend,  a  revival  or 
resuscitation  of  Kama,  the  god  of  love,  w^ho  was  reduced  to  ashes 
by  the  fiery  glance  of  >S'iva,  and  so  the  name  Pradyumna  is  used 
for  Kama.  {See  Kama.)  The  Yislimi  PuraTza  puts  the  follow- 
ing words  into  the  mouth  of  JSTarada  when  he  presented  Prad- 
yumna to  Rukmim  : — "  AA-lien  Manmatha  (the  deity  of  love)  had 
perished,  the  goddess  of  beauty  (Rati),  desirous  to  secure  his 
revival,  assumed  a  delusive  form,  and  by  her  charms  fascinated 
the  demon  /Skmbara,  and  exhibited  herself  to  him  in  various 
illusory  enjoyments.  This  thy  son  is  the  descended  Kama  ; 
and  this  is  (the  goddess)  Rati,  his  wife.  There  is  no  occasion 
for  any  uncertainty  ;  this  is  thy  daughter-in-law."  In  the  Hari- 
vansa  he  has  a  wife  named  Prabhavati,  daughter  of  King  Vajra- 
nabha.  Wlien  he  went  to  see  her  for  the  first  time,  he  changed 
himself  into  a  bee  and  lived  in  a  garland  of  flowers  which  had 
been  prepared  for  her.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata,  he  was 
Sanat-kumara,  the  son  of  Brahma. 

PR  AD  YUMX  A  -  YIJ  AY  A  '  Pradyumna  victorious. '  A 
drama  in  seven  acts  upon  the  victory  of  Pradyumna  over  the 
Daitya  Yajra-nabha,  Avritten  by  iSankara  Dikshita  about  the 
middle  of  the  last  century.  "  The  play  is  the  work  of  a  Pa7ic?it, 
not  of  a  poet." — Wilson. 

PRAG-JYOTISHA.  A  city  situated  in  the  east,  in  Kama- 
riipa  on  the  borders  of  Assam.     See  Naraka. 

PRAHLADA,  PRAHRADA.  A  Daitya,  son  of  Hirawya- 
kasipu  and  father  of  Bali.  Hira?iya-ka5ij)u,  in  his  wars  with  the 
gods,  had  wrested  the  sovereignty  of  heaven  from  Indra  and 
dwelt  there  in  luxury.  His  son  Prahlada,  while  yet  a  boy, 
became  an  ardent  devotee  of  Yisliwu,  which  so  enraged  his 
father  that  he  ordered  the  boy  to  be  killed ;  but  not  the  weapons 
of  the  Daityas,  the  fangs  of  the  serpents,  the  tusks  of  the 
celestial  elephants,  nor  the  flames  of  fire  took  any  efiect,  and  his 
father  was  constrained  to  send  him  back  to  his  preceptor,  where 
he  continued  so  earnest  in  performing  and  promoting  the  wor- 
ship of  YisliTiu  that  he  eventually  obtained  final  exemption 
from  existence.  According  to  some  accounts,  it  was  to  avenge 
Prahlada,  as  well  as  to  vindicate  his  own  insulted  majesty,  that 
Yislmu  became  incarnate  as  the  Nara-sinha,  '  man-lion,'  and  slew 


PRAJA-P  ATI-PRAKRIT  A.  239 

Hira7z.ya-ka.«ipu.  After  the  death  of  his  father,  Pralilada  be- 
came king  of  tlie  Daityas  and  dwelt  in  Patala  ;  but,  according 
to  the  Padnia  Pura/ia,  he  was  raised  to  the  rank  of  Indra  for 
life,  and  finally  united  with  Vish/iu.  The  Padma  Pura?ia 
carries  the  story  farther  back  to  a  previous  birth.  In  this  pre- 
vious existence  Prahlada  was  a  Brahman  named  Soma-^arman, 
fifth  son  of  ^Siva-sarman.  His  four  brothers  died  and  ol)- 
tained  union  with  Vish/iu,  and  he  desired  to  follow^  them. 
To  accomj)lish  this  he  engaged  in  profound  meditation,  but  he 
allowed  himself  to  be  disturbed  by  an  alarm  of  the  Daityas,  and 
so  was  born  again  as  one  of  them.  He  took  the  part  of  his 
race  in  the  war  between  them  and  the  gods,  and  was  killed  by 
the  discus  of  Vislwiu,  after  that  he  was  again  born  as  son  of 
Hira?2ya-kasipu. 

PKAJA-PATL  'Lord  of  creatures,'  a  progenitor,  creator. 
In  the  A^eda  the  term  is  applied  to  Indra,  Savit?'i,  Soma,  Hir- 
a/iya-garbha,  and  other  deities.  In  Manu  the  term  is  applied  to 
Brahma  as  the  active  creator  and  supporter  of  the  universe ;  so 
Brahma  is  the  Praja-pati.  It  is  also  given  to  Manu  Swayam- 
bhuva  himself,  as  the  son  of  Brahma  and  as  the  secondary 
creator  of  the  ten  ii/shis,  or  "mind-born  sons"  of  Brahma,  from 
whom  mankind  has  descended.  It  is  to  these  ten  sages,  as 
fathers  of  the  human  race,  that  the  name  Prajil-pati  most  com- 
monly is  given.  They  are  Marichi,  Atri,  Angiras,  Pulastya, 
Pulaha,  Kratu,  Vasish^ha,  Prachetas  or  Daksha,  Bh?/gu,  and 
Narada.  According  to  some  authorities  the  Praja-patis  are  only 
seven  in  number,  being  identical  with  the  seven  great  i^fshis. 
{See  itishi.)  The  number  and  names  of  the  Praja-patis  vary  in 
different  authorities  :  the.  Maha-bharata  makes  twenty- one. 

PKAKAaSAS.  Messengers  of  Vislmu,  also  called  Yish/iu- 
diitas. 

PRAKit/TA.  The  Prakrits  are  provincial  dialects  of  the 
Sansk?'it,  exhibiting  more  or  less  deterioration  from  the  original 
language ;  and  they  occupy  an  intermediate  position  between 
that  language  and  the  modern  vernaculars  of  India,  very  similar 
to  that  of  the  Romance  languages  between  the  Tatin  and  the 
modern  languages  of  Europe.  They  resemble  the  European 
languages  also  in  another  respect  :  they  have  in  them  a  small 
proportion  of  words  which  have  not  been  affiliated  on  the  original 
classical  language,  and  are  apparently  remnants  of  a  different 


240  PRAKRITl—PRAMLOCHA. 

tongiie  and  an  older  race.  The  Prak?7'ts  are  cliiefly  known  from 
the  dramas  in  which  kings  and  Brahmans  speak  Sansk^'/t,  while 
characters  of  inferior  position  speak  in  different  Prak?7ts. 
Sometimes  these  Prak?*it  passages  are  so  very  debased  that  it 
hardly  seems  possible  for  them  to  be  specimens  of  really  spoken 
vernaculars.  Such  passages  may  perhaps  be  comic  exaggerations 
of  provincial  peculiarities.  The  Prak?'/ts  have  received  careful 
study,  and  the  Prakrita-prakasa,  a  Grammar  by  Yararuchi, 
translated  by  Professor  Cowell,  was  probably  written  about  the 
beginning  of  the  Christian  era.     K^ee  Katyayana. 

PRAKii/TI.  Nature  ;  matter  as  opposed  to  spirit.  The  per- 
sonified will  of  the  Supreme  in  the  creation,  and  the  prototype 
of  the  female  sex,  identified  with  Maya  or  illusion.  The  ^akti 
or  female  energy  of  any  deity. 

PRALAMBA.  An  Asura  killed  by  K?7'sh?2a,  according  to 
the  Maha-bharata.  His  story  as  told  in  the  Yislmu  Purii/ia  is, 
that  he  was  an  Asura  and  a  dej^endant  of  Kansa.  With  the 
object  of  devouring  the  boys  Krishna  and  Bala-rama,  he  joined 
them  and  their  playmates  in  jumping.  Pralamba  was  beaten 
by  his  opponent  Bala-rama,  and  by  the  rules  of  the  game  had 
to  carry  the  victor  back  on  his  shoulders  to  the  starting-place. 
He  took  up  Bala-riima  and  then  exjoanded  his  form,  and  was 
making  off  with  his  rider  when  Bala-rama  called  U2X)n  K?*ish7?a 
for  assistance.  Krz'sh?za  made  a  long  speech,  and  ended  by  tell- 
ing him  to  suspend  aAvhile  his  mortal  character  and  do  what  was 
right.  Bala-rama  laughed,  squeezed  Pralamba  with  his  knees, 
and  beat  him  on  the  head  with  his  fists  till  his  eves  were  knocked 
out  and  his  brain  forced  through  his  skull,  so  that  he  fell  to  the 
ground  and  expired. 

PRALAYA.  A  dissolution  of  the  world  at  the  end  of  a  kalpa. 

PRAMATHAS.  A  class  of  demi-gods  or  fiends  attendant 
upon  >Siva. 

PRAMLOCHA.  A  celestial  nymj^h  sent  by  Indra  to  beguile 
the  sage  Ka?if?u  from  his  devotion  and  austerities.  She  lived 
with  him  for  some  hundreds  of  years,  which  were  but  as  a  day  to 
the  sage.  AVhen  he  awoke  from  his  delusion  lie  drove  the  nymph 
from  his  presence.  The  child  with  which  she  M^as  pregnant  by 
him  came  forth  from  her  body  in  drops  of  perspiration,  which 
she  left  upon  the  leaves  of  the  trees.  These  drops  congealed 
and  became  eventually  the  lovely  nymjDh  Marisha  (q.v.). 


PRANA—PRA  TI-SHTHANA.  241 

PEAiVA.  '  Breath  or  life. '  In  the  Atharva-veda  it  is  per- 
sonified and  a  hymn  is  addressed  to  it. 

PRASANNA-RAGHAVA.  A  drama  by  Jaya-deva  in  seven 
acts.     It  has  been  printed  at  Benares. 

PRASEj^A.  Son  of  Nighna  and  brother  of  Satra-jit  or 
Sattriijita.     He  was  killed  by  a  lion.     See,  Syamantaka. 

PRAaS'ISTA.     ISI^ame  of  an  Upanishad  (q.v.). 

PRASUTI.     A  daughter  of  Mann  and  wife  of  Daksha. 

PRATARDANA.  Son  of  Divodasa,  king  of  Kasi.  The 
whole  family  of  Divodasa  was  slain  by  a  king  named  Yita-havya. 
The  afflicted  monarch  through  a  sacrifice  performed  by  Bh?7gii 
obtained  a  son,  Pratardana,  who  became  a  mighty  warrior,  and 
avenged  the  family  wrongs  upon  his  father's  foe.  Yita-havya 
then  flew  to  the  sage  Bh?'igu  for  protection,  and  w^as  by  him 
raised  to  the  dignity  of  a  Brahmarshi. 

PRATI/S'AKHYAS.  Treatises  on  the  jjlionetic  laws  of  the 
language  of  the  Yedas,  dealing  with  the  euphonic  combination 
of  letters  and  the  peculiarities  of  their  pronunciation  as  they 
prevailed  in  the  different  iS'akhas  or  Yedic  schools.  Tliese 
treatises  are  very  ancient,  but  they  are  considerably  later  than 
the  hymns,  for  the  idiom  of  the  hymns  must  have  become 
obscure  and  obsolete  before  these  treatises  were  necessary.  Pour 
such  treatises  are  known  : — 

Eig-veda. — One  which  is  considered  to  belong  to  the  /STddiala- 
sakha  of  this  Yeda,  and  is  ascribed  to  >Saunaka,  It  has  been 
edited  and  translated  into  German  by  Max  Midler,  and  into 
French  by  ]M.  Regnier. 

Yajur-veda. — Taittiriya-pratisakhj-a,  belonging  to  the  Black 
Yajur,  jDrinted  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica  and  also  in  the  Journal 
of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  with  a  translation  by  Professor 
AYhitney. 

Vdjasaneyi-prcdisdkhya. — Belonging  to  the  White  Yajur.  It 
is  attributed  to  Katyayana,  and  has  been  edited  and  translated 
by  Weber. 

A  tharva-veda.- — The  iS'aunakiya  Chaturadliy  ayika,  i.  e. ,  ^S'aunaka's 
treatise  in  four  chapters.  Edited  and  translated  into  Enghsli 
by  Whitney. 

No  Pratisiikhj^a  of  the  Sama-veda  has  been  discovered. 

PRATI-SHrHA:NrA.  An  ancient  city,  the  capital  of  the 
early  kings  of  the  Lunar  race  ;  "  it  was  situated  on  the  eastern 

Q 


242  PRA  UDHA-BRAHMANA—PRITHI. 

side  of  the  confluence  of  the  Ganges  and  Jumna,"  opposite  to 
the  modern  Allahabad.  The  capital  of  ASalivahana  on  the  Goda- 
vari,  supposed  to  be  the  same  as  "  Pattan  "  or  "  Pyetan." 

PRATJDHA-BRAHMAA'A.  One  of  the  eight  BrahmaTias  of 
the  Sama-veda.  It  contains  twenty-five  sections,  and  is  there- 
fore also  called  Pancha-vin^a. 

PRAYAGA.  The  modern  Allahabad.  The  place  where  tlie 
Ganges,  Jumna,  and  the  fabled  subterranean  Saraswati  unite, 
called  also  Tri-vem,  'the  triple  braid.'  It  has  always  been  a 
celebrated  place  of  j^ilgrimage. 

PRETA.  A  ghost ;  an  evil  spirit  animating  a  dead  carcase, 
and  haunting  cemeteries  and  other  places. 

Pi?/SHADHRA.  A  son  of  Manu  Yaivaswata,  who,  accord- 
ing to  the  Hari-vansa  and  the  Purawas,  became  a  AS'ddra  because 
he  killed  the  cow  of  his  religious  preceptor. 

Pi^/SHATA.     Drupada's  father. 

PitJ/S'iS^I.  In  the  Yedas  and  Pura?ias,  the  earth,  tlie  mother 
of  the  Maruts.  The  name  is  used  in  the  Yedas  also  for  a  cow. 
There  were  several  females  of  this  name,  and  one  of  them  is 
said  to  have  been  a  new  birth  of  Devaki. 

PRITHA.     A  name  of  Kunti. 

P7?/THI,  Pi?/THU,  PJ?/THI  -  YAIA^YA.  Pr/thi  or 
P?'ithi-vai7iya,  ■i.e.,  Prithi,  son  of  Yewa,  is  mentioned  in  the 
7t/g-veda,  and  he  is  the  declared  i^/shi  or  author  of  one  of  the 
hymns.  The  Atharva-veda  says,  "  She  (Yh-ry)  ascended  :  she 
came  to  men.  Men  called  her  to  them,  saying,  'Come,  IriivatT.' 
Manu  Yaivaswata  was  her  calf,  and  the  earth  her  vessel.  Prithl- 
vainya  milked  her ;  he  milked  from  her  agriculture  and  grain. 
Men  subsist  on  agriculture  and  grain."  The  /Siitapatha  P)rahma?ni 
refers  to  Prithi  as  "first  of  men  who  was  installed  as  a  king." 
These  early  allusions  receive  a  consistent  form  in  the  Purawas,  and 
we  have  the  following  legend  : — P/ithi  was  son  of  Yewa,  son  of 
Anga.  He  was  called  the  first  king,  and  from  him  the  earth 
received  her  name  Prithivi.  The  Yislmu  Purilwa  says  that  the 
i(?/shis  "  inaugurated  Yewa  monarch  of  tin;  eartli,"  but  he  was 
wicked  by  nature  and  prohibited  worship  and  sacrifice.  Incensed 
at  the  decay  of  religion,  pious  sages  beat  Ye/ia  to  death  with  blades 
of  holy  grass.  In  the  absence  of  a  king  robbery  and  anarchy  arose, 
and  the  Munis,  after  consultation,  proceeded  to  rub  the  thigh 
of  the  dead  king  in  order  to  produce  a  son.      There  came  forth 


PRITHl—PRITHU.  243 

"  a  man  like  a  charred  log,  with  flat  face  and  extremely  short." 
This  man  became  a  Nishada,  and  witli  him  came  out  the  sins  of 
the  departed  king.  The  Brahmans  then  rubbed  the  right  arm 
of  the  corpse,  "  and  from  it  sprang  the  majestic  Prithu,  Vewa's 
son,  resplendent  in  body,  glowing  like  the  manifested  Agni,  .  .  . 
At  his  birth  all  creatures  rejoiced,  and  through  the  birth  of  this 
virtuous  son  Ye?ia,  delivered  from  the  hell  called  Put,  ascended 
to  heaven."  Pr/thu  then  became  invested  wdth  universal 
dominion.  His  subjects,  who  had  suffered  from  famine,  be- 
sought him  for  the  edible  plants  which  the  earth  withheld. 
In  anger  he  seized  his  boAv  to  compel  her  to  yield  the  usual 
supply.  She  assumed  the  form  of  a  cow  and  fled  before  him. 
Unable  to  escape,  she  implored  him  to  spare  her,  and  promised 
to  restore  all  the  needed  fruits  if  a  calf  were  given  to  her,  through 
which  she  might  be  able  to  secrete  milk.  "  He  therefore,  hav- 
ing made  5wayam-bhuva  Manu  the  calf,  milked  the  earth,  and 
received  the  milk  into  his  own  hand  for  the  benefit  of  mankind. 
Thence  proceeded  all  kinds  of  corn  and  vegetables  upon  which 
people  subsist  now  and  perpetually.  By  granting  life  to  the 
earth  P^'ithu  was  as  her  father,  and  she  thence  derived  the 
j)atronymic  appellation  P^'ithivi."  This  milking  the  earth  has 
been  made  the  subject  of  much  allegory  and  symbolism.  The 
Matsya  Pura/za  specifies  a  variety  of  milkers,  gods,  men,  Nagas, 
Asuras,  &c.,  in  the  follow  style  : — "  The  i?ishis  milked  the 
earth  through  B?'ihaspati  ;  their  calf  Avas  Soma,  the  Vedas  were 
the  vessel,  and  the  milk  was  devotion."  Other  Pura?ms  ao;ree  with 
only  slight  deviations.  "These  mystifications,"  says  Wilson,  "are 
all,  probably,  subsequent  modifications  of  the  original  simple  alle- 
gory which  typified  the  earth  as  a  cow,  who  yielded  to  every  class 
of  beings  the  milk  they  desired,  or  the  object  of  their  wishes." 

Pi^/THIVI.  'The  broad.'  The  earth  or  wide  world.  In 
the  Yedas  the  earth  is  jDersonified  as  the  mother  of  all  beings,  and 
is  invoked  together  with  the  sky.  According  to  the  Yedas  there 
are  three  earths  corresponding  to  the  three  heavens,  and  our 
earth  is  called  Bhumi.  Another  name  of  the  earth  is  Urvi,  '  wide.' 
In  the  Yish?Ri  Pura?za  she  is  represented  as  receiving  her  name 
from  a  mythical  person  named  Prithu,  who  granted  her  life, 
and  so  was  to  her  as  a  father.     See  above,  P?-ithi  or  Prithu. 

Pii/THU.  A  king  of  the  Solar  race,  a  descendant  of  Iksh- 
waku.     There  are  many  Pr/thus.     See  Prithi. 


244  PRIYA-DA  RSl—P  UN  YA-SLOKA. 

PEIYA-DAE6I     See  Asoka. 

PRIYAM-YADA.  A  Yidya-dliara,  son  of  the  king  of  the 
Gandharvas. 

PRIYA-YRATA.  One  of  the  two  sons  of  Brahma,  and 
*S'ata-rupa ;  or,  according  to  other  statements,  a  son  of  Mann 
Swayam-bhuva.  "  Priya-vrata  being  dissatisfied  that  only  half 
the  earth  was  illuminated  at  one  time  by  the  solar  rays,  followed 
the  sun  seven  times  round  the  earth  in  his  own  flaming  car  of 
equal  velocity,  like  another  celestial  orb,  resolved  to  turn  night 
into  da}'."  He  was  stopped  by  Brahma.  "  The  ruts  which 
were  formed  by  the  motion  of  his  chariot  Avheels  were  the  seven 
oceans.  In  this  way  the  seven  continents  of  the  earth  Avere 
made." — Bhcigavata  Purdiia.  In  the  Yishmi  Vwrnndt,  his  wife  is 
stated  to  be  Kamya,  daughter  of  Kardama,  by  whom  he  had 
ten  sons  and  two  daughters.  Three  of  the  sons  adopted  a  re- 
ligious life,  and  Priya-vrata  divided  the  seven  continents 
among  the  others. 

PULAHA.  Name  of  one  of  the  Praja-patis  and  great  ii/shis. 
His  wife  was  Kshama,  and  he  had  three  sons,  Kardama,  Arva- 
rivat,  and  Sahish?iu.     A  Gandharva  (q.v.). 

PULASTYA.  One  of  the  Praja-patis  or  mind-born  sons  of 
Brahma,  and  one  of  the  great  iiishis.  He  was  the  medium 
through  which  some  of  the  Pura?zas  were  communicated  to  man. 
He  received  the  Yish?m  PuriiTza  from  Brahma  and  communi- 
cated it  to  Parasara,  who  made  it  known  to  mankind.  He  was 
father  of  Yisravas,  the  father  of  Kuvera  and  Rava/ia,  and  all 
the  Rakshasas  are  supposed  to  have  sprung  from  him. 

PULINDAS.  Barbarians  ;  barbarous  tribes  living  in  woods 
and  mountains,  especially  in  Central  India ;  but  there  were 
some  in  the  north  and  on  the  Indus. 

PULOjMAX.  a  Danava  and  father  of  /S'acliT,  wife  of  Indra. 
He  was  killed  by  Indra  when  he  Avished  to  curse  that  deity  for 
having  ravished  his  daughter. 

PUA^X>ARIKAKSIIA.    'The  lotus-eyed;'  a  name  of  Yisli?m. 

PUA^Z)RA.  A  country  corresponding  "  to  Bengal  proper, 
Avitli  part  of  South  Bihiir  and  the  Jungle  INIahals."  A  fabulous 
city  between  the  Hima-vat  and  Hema-ku/a. 

PUiY  YA  -  6'LOK  A  (mas. ),  PUiY  YA  -  ^XOK  A  (f  em. ). 
'Hymned  in  holy  verse.'  An  appellation  applied  to  Kn'slma, 
Yudhi-sh/hira,  and  Nala,  also  to  Draupadi  and  Sitil 


PURANA.  245 

PURAi\''A.  '  Old,'  hence  an  ancient  legend  or  tale  of  olden 
times.  The  Pura?ias  succeed  the  Itihasas  or  epic  poems,  but 
at  a  considerable  distance  of  time,  and  must  be  distinguished 
from  them.  The  epics  treat  of  the  legendary  actions  of  heroes 
as  mortal  men,  the  Pura?zas  celebrate  the  powers  and  works  of 
positive  gods,  and  represent  a  later  and  more  extravagant  deve- 
lopment of  Hinduism,  of  which  they  are  in  fact  the  Scrij)tures. 
The  definition  of  a  Pura?u  by  Amara  Sinha,  an  ancient  Sansk?'/t 
lexicographer,  is  a  work  "which  has  five  distinguishing  topics  : — 
(i.)  The  creation  of  the  universe  ;  (2.)  Its  destruction  and  reno- 
vation; (3.)  The  genealogy  of  gods  and  patriarchs;  (4.)  The  reigns 
of  the  Manus,  forming  the  periods  called  Manwantaras.  (5.) 
The  history  of  the  Solar  and  Lunar  races  of  kings."  These  are 
the  Pancha-lakshaTias  or  distinguishing  marks,  but  no  one  of  the 
Purawas  answers  exactly  to  the  description  ;  some  show  a  partial 
conformity  with  it,  others  depart  from  it  very  widely.  The 
Vish?Ri  Pura?2a  is  the  one  which  best  accords  with  the  title. 
Wilson  says,  "  A  very  great  portion  of  the  contents  of  many  is 
genuine  and  old.  The  sectarial  interpolation  or  embellishment 
is  always  sufficiently  palpable  to  be  set  aside  without  injury  to 
the  more  authentic  and  primitive  material;  and  the  Purawas, 
although  they  belong  especially  to  that  stage  of  the  Hindu  reli- 
gion in  which  faith  in  some  one  divinity  was  the  prevailing 
principle,  are  also  a  valuable  record  of  the  form  of  Hindu  belief 
which  came  next  in  order  to  that  of  the  Yedas,  which  grafted 
hero-worship  upon  the  simpler  ritual  of  the  latter,  and  which  had 
been  adopted,  and  was  extensively,  perhaps  universally,  estab- 
lished in  India  at  the  time  of  the  Greek  invasion."  According 
to  the  same  authority,  Pantheism  "  is  one  of  their  invariable 
characteristics,"  and  underlies  their  whole  teaching,  "  although 
the  particular  divinity  who  is  all  things,  from  whom  all  things 
proceed,  and  to  whom  all  things  return,  is  diversified  according 
to  their  individual  sectarian  bias."  The  Pura?ias  are  all  written 
in  verse,  and  their  invariable  form  is  that  of  a  dialogue  between 
an  exponent  and  an  inquirer,  intersj)ersed  with  the  dialogues  and 
observations  of  other  individuals.  Thus  Pulastya  received  the 
Yish^iu  Pura?ia  from  Brahma ;  he  made  it  known  to  Parasara, 
and  Parasara  narrated  it  to  his  disciple  Maitreya.  The  Pura?ias 
are  eighteen  in  number,  and  in  addition  to  these  there  are 
eighteen  Upa  Pura?2as  or  subordinate  works.     The  Purawas  are 


246  PURANA. 

classified  in  tliree  categories,  according  to  tlie  prevalence  in  them 
of  the  qualities  of  purity,  gloom,  and  passion.  Those  in  which 
the  quality  of  Sattwa  or  purity  j)revail  are — (i.)  Yish7?-u,  (2.) 
Naradiya,  (3.)  Bhagavata,  (4.)  Garuc/a,  (5.)  Padma,  (6.)  Yaraha. 
These  are  Vaishnava  Pura/?as,  in  which  the  god  Yish??Ai  holds 
the  pre-eminence.  The  Purawas  in  which  Tamas,  the  quality  of 
gloom  or  ignorance,  predominates  are — (i.)  ]\ratsya,  (2.)  Kurma, 
(3.)  Linga,  (4.)  ^S'iva,  (5.)  Skanda,  (6.)  Agni.  These  are  devoted 
to  the  god  ^iva.  Those  in  which  Rajas  or  passion  prevails 
relate  chiefly  to  the  god  Brahma.  They  are — (i.)  Brahma,  (2.) 
Brahmawc/a,  (3.)  Brahma-vaivarta,  (4.)  ^MarkaTZC^eya,  (5.)  Bhavi- 
shya,  (6.)  Yamana.  The  works  themselves  do  not  fully  justify 
this  classification.  ISTone  of  them  are  devoted  exclusively  to  one 
god,  but  Yishmi  and  his  incarnations  fill  the  largest  space.  One 
called  the  Yayu  Purawa  is  in  some  of  the  PuraTias  substituted 
for  the  Agni,  and  in  others  for  the  *S'iva.  This  Yayu  is  appa- 
rently the  oldest  of  them,  and  may  date  as  far  back  as  the  sixth 
century,  and  it  is  considered  that  some  of  the  others  may  be  as 
late  as  the  thirteenth  or  even  the  sixteenth  century.  One  fact 
appears  certain  :  they  must  all  have  received  a  supplementary 
revision,  because  each  one  of  them  enumerates  the  whole 
eighteen.  The  Markaw(/e3''a  is  the  least  sectarian  of  the  Pur- 
a?ias ;  and  the  Bhagavata,  which  deals  at  length  Avith  the  incar- 
nations of  Yishwu,  and  particularly  with  his  form  K?"ish7ia,  is  the 
most  poj^ular.  The  most  jierfect  and  the  best  known  is  the 
Yislmu,  which  has  been  entirely  translated  into  English  by 
Professor  Wilson,  and  a  second  edition,  with  many  valuable 
notes,  has  been  edited  by  Dr.  F.  E.  Hall.  The  text  of  the  Agni 
and  Marka?if/eya  Pura/zas  is  in  course  of  publication  in  the 
Bibliotheca  Indica.  The  Purfmas  vary  greatly  in  length.  Some 
of  them  specify  the  number  of  couplets  that  each  of  the  eighteen 
contains.  According  to  the  Bhagavata,  the  sum  total  of  couplets 
in  the  whole  eighteen  is  400,000 ;  the  Skanda  is  the  longest, 
with  81,000,  the  Brahma  and  the  Yamana  the  shortest,  with 
10,000  couplets  each. 

TheUimPurawas  are  named — (i.)  Sanat-kumiira,  (2.)  Xara-sinha 
or  N?7*-sinha,  (3.)  Naradlya  or  Yr/han  (old)  Naradlya,  (4.)  51  va, 
(5.)Dur-vasasa,(6.)Kapila,  (7.)j\[rinava,  (8.)Ausanasa,  (9.)ATiruwa, 
(10.)  Kalikti,  (11.)  AS'amba,  (12.)  Nandi,  (13.)  Saura,  (14.)  Para- 
sara,    (15.)    Aditya,    (16.)    INIilheswara,    (17.)   Bhagavata,    (18,) 


PURAN-JA  YA—PURU-RA  VAS.  247 

Vasish/ha.  These  works  are  not  common.  Other  modern 
Avorks  exist  to  which  the  term  PuraTZ-a  has  been  applied. 

An  account  of  each  of  the  eighteen  great  Piiray^as  is  given 
under  its  own  name. 

PURAN-JAYA.  '  City-conqneror.'  A  prince  of  the  Solar 
race,  son  of  Yikukshi.  His  story,  as  told  in  the  Yishmi  Piirawa, 
is  that  in  the  Treta  age  there  was  war  between  the  gods  and 
the  Asuras,  in  which  the  former  were  worsted.  They  had  re- 
course to  Yislmu  for  assistance,  and  he  directed  them  to  obtain 
the  aid  of  Puran-jaya,  into  whose  person  he  promised  to  infuse 
a  portion  of  himself.  The  prince  complied  with  their  wishes, 
and  asked  that  their  chief,  Indra,  Avould  assume  the  form  of  a 
bull  and  carry  him,  the  prince,  upon  his  hump.  This  was  done, 
and  tlius  seated  Puran-jaya  destroyed  all  the  enemies  of  the 
gods.  As  he  rode  on  the  hump  he  obtained  the  cognomen  of 
Kakut-stha.  In  explanation  of  his  title  Puran-jaya,  the  Bha- 
gavata  Pura?za  says  that  he  took  the  city  of  the  Daityas  situated 
in  the  west. 

PURO GHANA.  The  emissary  of  Dur-yodhana  who  at- 
tempted to  burn  the  Pa?^o?avas  in  their  house  and  was  burnt  in 
his  own  house  by  Bhima.     See  Maha-bharata. 

PURU.  The  sixth  king  of  the  Lunar  race,  youngest  son 
of  Yayati  and  Sarmish/ha.  He  and  his  brother  Yadu  were 
founders  of  two  great  branches  of  the  Lunar  race.  The  descen- 
dants of  Puru  were  called  Pauravas,  and  of  this  race  came  the 
Kauravas  and  Pa?i(7avas.  Among  the  Yadavas  or  descendants  01 
Yadu  was  K?i*sh7?a.     Bee  Yayati. 

PURUKUTSA.  A  son  of  Mandhat?i,  into  whose  person 
Yish?iu  entered  for  the'  purpose  of  destroying  the  subterranean 
Gandharvas,  called  Mauneyas.  He  reigned  on  the  banks  of  the 
]!^armada,  and  that  river  personified  as  one  of  the  J^agas  was  his 
wife.  By  her  he  had  a  son,  Trasadasyu.  The  Yish/m  Purawa 
is  said  to  have  been  narrated  to  him  by  "  Daksha  and  other 
venerable  sages." 

PURU-RAYAS.  In  the  Yedas,  a  mythical  personage  con- 
nected with  the  sun  and  the  dawn,  and  existing  in  the  middle 
region  of  the  universe.  According  to  the  ^ig-veda  he  was  son 
of  Ila,  and  a  beneficent  pious  prince ;  but  the  Maha-bharata 
says,  "We  have  heard  that  Ha  was  both  his  mother  and  his 
father.     The  parentage  usually  assigned  to  him  is  that  he  was 


248  PURV-RAVAS. 

son  of  Budlia  by  Ila,  daughter  of  Manu,  and  grandson  of  tlie 
moon."  Tlirongh  his  mother  he  received  the  city  of  Pratish/hana. 
{See  Ila.)  lie  is  the  hero  of  the  story  and  of  the  drama  of 
Vikrama  and  Urvasi,  or  the  "  Hero  and  the  jSTymph."  Puru-ravas 
is  the  Vikrama  or  hero,  and  Urvasi  is  an  Apsaras  who  came 
down  from  Swarga  through  having  incurred  the  imprecation  of 
Mitra  and  YaruTia.  On  earth  Purii-ravas  and  she  became  ena- 
moured of  each  other,  and  she  agreed  to  live  with  him  upon 
certain  conditions.  "  I  have  two  rams,"  said  the  nympli, 
"  which  I  love  as  children.  They  must  be  kept  near  my  bed- 
side, and  never  suffered  to  be  carried  away.  You  must  also 
take  care  never  to  be  seen  by  me  undressed ;  and  clarified  butter 
alone  must  be  my  food."  The  inhabitants  of  Swarga  were 
anxious  for  the  return  of  Urva^i,  and  knowing  the  compact 
made  with  Purii-ravas,  the  Gandharvas  came  by  night  and  stole 
lier  rams.  Purii-ravas  was  undressed,  and  so  at  first  refrained 
from  pursuing  the  robl)ers,  but  the  cries  of  Urvasi  impelled  him 
to  seize  his  sword  and  rush  after  them.  The  Gandharvas  then 
brought  a  vivid  flasli  of  lightning  to  the  chamber  which  dis- 
played the  person  of  Purii-ravas.  So  the  charm  was  broken  and 
Urvasi  disappeared.  Purii-ravas  wandered  about  demented  in 
search  of  her,  and  at  length  found  her  at  Kuru-kshetra  bathing 
with  four  other  nymphs  of  heaven.  She  declared  herself  preg- 
nant, and  told  him  to  come  there  again  at  the  end  of  a  year, 
when  she  would  deliver  to  him  a  son  and  remain  with  him  for 
one  night.  Purii-ravas,  thus  comforted,  returned  to  his  capital. 
At  the  end  of  the  year  he  went  to  the  trysting-place  and  received 
from  Urva.si  his  eldest  son,  Ayus.  The  annual  interviews  were 
repeated  until  she  had  borne  him  five  more  sons.  (Some  autho- 
rities increase  the  number  to  eight,  and  there  is  considerable 
variety  in  their  names. )  She  then  told  him  tliat  the  Gandharvas 
had  determined  to  grant  him  any  boon  he  might  desire.  His 
desire  was  to  pass  his  life  with  Urvasi.  The  Gandharvas  then 
brought  him  a  vessel  with  fire  and  said,  "  Take  this  fire,  and, 
according  to  the  precepts  of  the  Yedas,  divide  it  into  three  fires ; 
then,  fixing  your  mind  upon  the  idea  of  living  with  Urvasi,  offer 
oblations,  and  you  shall  assuredly  obtain  your  wishes."  He  did 
not  immediately  obey  this  command,  but  eventually  he  fulfilled 
it  in  an  emblematic  way,  and  "  obtained  a  seat  in  the  sphere  of 
the  Gandharvas,  and  was  no  more  separated  from  his  love."    As 


PURUSHA-PUSHAN.  249 

a  son  of  Ila,  liis  metronymic  is  Aila.  There  is  a  hymn  in  the 
ifc/g-veda  which  contains  an  obscure  conversation  between  Piirii- 
ravas  and  Urvasi.  The  above  story  is  first  told  in  the  iS'atapatha 
BrahmaTza,  and  afterwards  reappears  in  the  PuraTias.  The 
Bhagavata  Purawa  says,  "  From  Puru-ravas  came  the  triple 
Veda  in  the  beginning  of  the  Treta  (age)." 

The  story  is  supposed  to  have  a  mythic  origin.  Max  Miiller 
considers  it  "  one  of  the  myths  of  the  Vedas  which  expresses 
the  correlation  of  the  dawn  and  the  sun.  The  love  between  the 
mortal  and  the  immortal,  and  the  identity  of  the  morning  dawn 
and  the  evening  twilight,  is  the  story  of  Urvasi  and  Puru-ravas. " 
The  word  Urvasi,  according  to  the  same  writer,  "  was  originally 
an  appellation,  and  meant  dawn."  Dr.  Goldstiicker's  explanation 
differs,  but  seems  more  apposite.  According  to  this,  Purii-ravas 
is  the  sun  and  Urvasi  is  the  morning  mist  ;  when  Purii-ravas  is 
visible  Urvasi  vanishes,  as  the  mist  is  absorbed  when  the  sun 
shines  forth.  Urvasi  in  the  story  is  an  Apsaras,  and  the  Apsa- 
rases  are  "  personifications  of  the  vapours  which  are  attracted 
by  the  sun  and  form  into  mists  or  clouds." 

PURUSHA.  '  Man.'  i.  The  original  eternal  man,  the  Sup- 
reme Being,  and  soul  of  the  universe.      2.  A  name  of  Brahma. 

PURUSHA-XARAYAiVA.  The  original  male.  The  divine 
creator  Brahma. 

PURUSHA-StJKTA.  A  hymn  of  the  i^ig-veda  in  which 
the  four  castes  are  first  mentioned.  It  is  considered  to  be  one 
of  the  latest  in  date.      See  Muir's  Texts,  i.  p.  7. 

PURUSHOTTAMA.  Literally  '  best  of  men  ;'  but  the  word 
Purusha  is  here  used  in  its  mythic  sense  of  soul  of  the  universe, 
and  so  the  compound  means  the  "supreme  soul."  It  is  a  title 
of  Yishmi,  and  asserts  his  right  to  be  considered  the  Supreme 
God.  So  the  Hari-vansa  says,  "  Purushottama  is  whatever  is 
declared  to  be  the  highest,  Purusha  the  sacrifice,  and  everything 
else  which  is  known  by  the  name  of  Purusha." 

PURUSHOTTAMA  -  KSHETRA.  The  sacred  territory 
round  about  the  temple  of  Jagannatha  in  Orissa. 

PURYA-jNIiMANSA.    A  school  of  philosophy.    See  Darsana. 

PUSHAjST.  a  deity  frequently  mentioned  in  the  Yedas,  but 
he  is  not  of  a  distinctly  defined  character.  Many  hymns  are 
addressed  to  him.  The  word  comes  from  the  root  2^ush,  and 
the  primary  idea  is  that  of  "  nourisher ''  or  Providence.      So  the 


250  PUSHAN—PUSHKARA. 

Taittirlya  Bralima?ia  says,  "  AVlien  Prajapati  formed  living 
creatures  Pushan  nourished  them."  The  account  given  in  Bbh- 
thngk  and  Roth's  Dictionary,  and  adopted  by  Dr.  Muir,  is  as 
follows  : — "Piishan  is  a  protector  and  multiplier  of  cattle  and 
of  human  possessions  in  general.  As  a  cowherd  he  carries  an 
ox-goad,  and  he  is  drawn  by  goats.  In  the  character  of  a  Solar 
deity,  he  beholds  the  entire  universe,  and  is  a  guide  on  roads 
and  journeys  and  to  the  other  world.  He  is  called  the  lover  of 
his  sister  Surya.  He  aids  in  the  revolution  of  day  and  night, 
and  shares  with  Soma  the  guardianship  of  living  creatures.  He 
is  invoked  along  with  the  most  various  deities,  but  most  fre- 
Cjuently  with  Indra  and  Bhaga."  He  is  a  patron  of  conjurors, 
especially  of  those  who  discover  stolen  goods,  and  he  is  connected 
with  the  marriage  ceremonial,  being  besought  to  take  the  bride's 
hand  and  bless  her.  (See  Miiifs  Texts,  v.  171.)  In  the 
Xirukta,  and  in  works  of  later  date,  Pushan  is  identified 
with  the  sun.  He  is  also  called  the  brother  of  Indra,  and  is 
enumerated  among  the  twelve  Adityas.  Pushan  is  toothless, 
and  feeds  upon  a  kind  of  gruel,  and  the  cooked  oblations  offered 
to  him  are  of  ground  materials,  hence  he  is  called  Karambhad. 
The  cause  of  his  being  toothless  is  variously  explained.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  the  deity  Rudra,  being  excluded 
from  a  certain  sacrifice,  shot  an  arrow  at  the  offering  and  pierced 
it.  A  portion  of  this  sacrifice  was  presented  to  Pushan,  and  it 
broke  his  teeth.  In  the  Maha-bharata  and  in  the  Purawas  the 
legend  takes  a  more  definite  shape.  "  Rudra  (/S'iva),  of  dreadful 
power,  ran  up  to  the  gods  present  at  Daksha's  sacrifice,  and  in 
his  rage  knocked  out  the  eyes  of  Bhaga  with  a  blow,  and,  in- 
censed, assaulted  Pushan  with  his  foot,  and  knocked  out  his 
teeth  as  he  was  eating  the  purof?a5a  offering."  In  the  Pura?zas 
it  is  not  /Siva  himself,  but  his  manifestation  the  Rudras,  who 
disturbed  the  sacrifice  of  the  gods  and  knocked  Pushan's  teeth 
down  his  throat.  Pushan  is  called  Agh^'mi,  '  splendid  ; '  Dasra, 
Dasma,  and  Dasma-varchas,  '  of  wonderful  appearance  or  power,' 
and  Kapardin  (q.v.). 

PUSHKARA.  A  blue  lotus.  A  celebrated  tank  about  five 
miles  from  Ajmir.  One  of  the  seven  Dwipas.  (See  Dwipa.) 
The  name  of  several  persons.  Of  the  brother  of  Nala  to  whom 
Nala  lost  his  kingdom  and  all  that  he  possessed  in  gambling. 
Of  a  son  of  Bharata  and  nephew  of  Rama-chandra,  who  reigned 
over  the  Gandharas. 


PUSHKARAVA  TI—RAGA,  251 

PUSHKARAVATL  A  city  of  the  Gandliaras  not  far  from 
tlie  Indus.  It  is  the  Tli\)-A.iKaZ)ri?  of  Ptolemy,  and  the  Poiise- 
kielofati  of  Hiouen  Thsang. 

PUSHPA-DANTA.  'Flower-teeth.'  i.  One  of  the  chief 
attendants  of  AS'iva.  He  incurred  his  master's  displeasure  by 
listening  to  his  private  conversation  with  Parvati  and  talking  of 
it  afterwards.  Por  this  he  was  condemned  to  become  a  man, 
and  so  appeared  in  the  form  of  the  great  grammarian  Katyayana. 
2.  One  of  the  guardian  elephants.     See,  Loka-pala. 

PUSHPAKA.  A  self-moving  aerial  car  of  large  dimensions, 
vrhich  contained  within  it  a  palace  or  city.  Ivuvera  obtained  it 
by  gift  from  Brahma,  but  it  was  carried  off  by  Eava/za,  his 
half-brother,  and  constantly  used  by  him.  After  Rama-chandra 
had  slain  Rava^ia,  he  made  use  of  this  capacious  car  to  convey 
himself  and  Sita,  with  Lakslima?ia  and  all  his  allies,  back  to 
Ayodliya ;  after  that  he  returned  it  to  its  owner,  Kuvera.  It  is 
also  called  Ratna-varslmka,  "  that  rains  jewels." 

PUSHPA-KARAiVDIKI.     A  name  of  Ujjayini. 

PUSHPA-MITRA.  The  first  of  the  ^unga  kings,  who  suc- 
ceeded the  Mauryas,  and  reigned  at  Pa/ali-putra.  In  his  time 
the  grammarian  Patanjali  is  supposed  to  have  lived. 

PUSHP0TKA2A.  A  Rakshasi,  the  wife  of  Yi.sravas  and 
mother  of  Ravawa  and  Kumbha-ka?'na. 

PUT.  A  hell  to  which  childless  men  are  said  to  be  condemned. 
'-  A  name  invented  to  explain  the  word  ^w//7'(X,  son  (hell-saver)." 

PUTAI^A.  A  female  demon,  daughter  of  Bali.  She  attempted 
to  kill  the  infant  K?-ish7?a  by  suckling  him,  but  was  herself 
sucked  to  death  by  the  child. 

RADHA.  I.  Wife  of  Adhiratha  and  foster-mother  of  Ivar7?a. 
2.  The  favourite  mistress  and  consort  of  Krish??a  while  he  lived 
as  Go-pala  among  the  cowherds  in  Vrmda-vana.  She  was  wife 
of  Ayana-ghosha,  a  cowherd.  Considered  by  some  to  be  an  in- 
carnation of  LakshniT,  and  worshipped  accordingly.  Some  have 
discovered  a  mystical  character  in  Radha,  and  consider  her  as 
the  type  of  the  human  soul  drawn  to  the  ineffable  god,  Kf/sh?ia, 
or  as  that  pure  divine  love  to  which  the  fickle  lover  returns. 

RADHEYA.     a  metronymic  of  Ivar?2a. 

RADHIKA.  a  diminutive  and  endearing  form  of  the  name 
Radha. 

RAG  A  (mas.),  RAGINl  (fern.).     Tlie  Ragas  are  the  musical 


252  RAGHAVA—RAHU. 

modes  or  melodies  personified,  six  or  more  in  number,  and  tlie 
Rasfinis  are  their  consorts. 

RAGHAYA.     Descendant  of  Eaglm,  a  name  of  Rama. 

RAGHAYA-PAA^DAYiYA,  A  modern  poem  by  Kavi 
Raja,  which  is  in  high  repute.  It  is  an  artificial  work,  which 
exhibits  extraordinary  ingenuity  in  the  employment  of  words. 
As  its  name  implies,  the  poem  celebrates  the  actions  of  Raghava, 
i.e.^  Rama,  the  descendant  of  Raghu,  aiid  also  those  of  the  Vknd- 
ava  princes.  It  thus  recounts  at  once  in  the  same  words  the  story 
of  the  RamayaTia  and  that  of  the  Maha-bharata  ;  and  the  com- 
position  is  so  managed  that  the  words  may  be  understood  as 
applying  either  to  Rama  or  the  Pa72(iavas.      It  has  been  printed. 

RAGHAYA-YILASA.  A  poem  on  the  life  of  Rama  by 
Yiswa-natha,  the  author  of  the  Sahitya-darpawa. 

RAGHU.  A  king  of  the  Solar  race.  According  to  the 
Raghu-vansa,  he  was  the  son  of  Dilipa  and  great-grandfather  of 
Rama,  who  from  Raghu  got  the  patronymic  Raghava  and  the 
title  Raghu-pati,  chief  of  the  race  of  Raghu.  The  authorities 
disagree  as  to  the  genealogy  of  Raghu,  but  all  admit  him  to  be 
an  ancestor  of  Rama. 

RAGHU-PATL     See  Raghu. 

RAGHU-YAN.SA.  'The  race  of  Raghu.'  The  name  of  a 
celebrated  poem  in  nineteen  cantos  by  Kali-dasa  on  the  ancestry 
and  life  of  Rama.  It  has  been  translated  into  Latin  by  Stenzler, 
and  into  English  by  Griffiths.  There  are  other  translations  and 
many  editions  of  the  text. 

RAIIU.  Rclhu  and  Ketu  are  in  astronomy  the  ascending  and 
descending  nodes.  Rahu  is  the  cause  of  eclipses,  and  the  term 
is  used  to  designate  the  eclipse  itself.  He  is  also  considered 
as  one  of  the  planets,  as  king  of  meteors,  and  as  guardian  of  the 
south-west  quarter.  MythologiaUy  Rahu  is  a  Daitya  who  is 
supposed  to  seize  the  sun  and  moon  and  swallow  them,  thus 
obscuring  their  rays  and  causing  eclipses.  He  was  son  of  Yipra- 
chitti  and  Sinhika,  and  is  called  by  his  metronymic  Sainhikeya, 
He  had  four  arms,  and  his  lower  part  ended  in  a  tail  He  was 
a  great  mischief-maker,  and  when  the  gods  had  produced  the 
Amrita  by  churning  the  ocean,  he  assumed  a  disguise,  and  in- 
sinuating himself  amongst  them,  drank  some  of  it.  The  sun 
and  moon  detected  him  and  informed  Yish?m,  who  cut  off  his 
head  and  two  of  his  arms,  but,  as  he  had  secured  immortality, 


RAIBHYA—RAJARSHL  253 

his  "body  was  placed  in  the  stellar  sphere,  the  upper  parts,  re- 
presented by  a  dragon's  head,  being  the  ascending  node,  and  the 
lower  parts,  represented  by  a  dragon's  tail,  being  Ketu  the  de- 
scending node.  Eiihu  wreaks  his  vengeance  on  the  sun  and 
moon  by  occasionally  swallowing  them.  The  Yish?iu  Purawa 
says,  "  Eight  black  horses  draw  the  dusky  chariot  of  Rahu,  and 
once  harnessed  are  attached  to  it  for  ever.  On  the  Parvans 
(nodes,  or  lunar  and  solar  eclijDses)  Kahu  directs  his  course  from 
the  sun  to  the  moon,  and  back  again  from  the  moon  to  the  sun. 
The  eight  horses  of  the  chariot  of  Ketu,  swift  as  the  wind,  are 
of  the  dusky  red  colour  of  lac,  or  of  the  smoke  of  burning 
straw."  Rahu  is  called  Abhra-pisacha,  '  the  demon  of  the  sky  ; ' 
Eharam-bhu,  'born  from  the  asterism  Bharam;'  Graha,  'the 
seizer;'  Kabandha,  'the  headless.' 

RAIBHYA.  A  sage  who  was  the  friend  of  Bharadwaja. 
He  had  two  sons,  Arvavasu  and  Paravasu.  The  latter,  under 
the  curse  of  Bharadwaja,  killed  his  father,  mistaking  him  for  an 
antelope,  as  he  was  walking  about  at  night  covered  with  an 
antelope's  skin.  Arvavasu  retired  into  the  forest  to  obtain  by 
devotion  a  remission  of  his  brother's  guilt.  When  he  returned, 
Paravasu  charged  him  with  the  crime,  and  he  again  retired  to 
his  devotions.  These  so  pleased  the  gods  that  they  drove  away 
Paravasu  and  restored  Raibhya  to  life.     See  Yava-krita. 

RAIYATA.  I.  Son  of  Reva  or  Revata.  Also  called  Kakud- 
min.  He  had  a  very  lovely  daughter  named  Revati,  and  not  deem- 
ing any  mortal  worthy  of  her,  he  went  to  Brahma  to  consult 
him.  At  the  command  of  that  god  he  bestowed  her  upon  Bala- 
rama.  He  was  king  of  Anarta,  and  built  the  city  of  Ku5asthali 
or  Dwaraka  in  Gujarat,  which  he  made  his  capital  2.  One  of 
the  Manus  (the  fifth). 

RAIYATA,  RAIYATAKA.  The  range  that  branches  off 
from  the  western  portion  of  the  Yindhya  towards  the  north, 
extending  nearly  to  the  Jumna. 

RAJA-Gi?/HA.  The  capital  of  Magadha.  Its  site  is  stiU 
traceable  in  the  hills  between  Patna  and  Gaya. 

RAJANYA.     A  Yedic  designation  of  the  Kshatriya  caste. 
RAJARSHI    (Raja-?ishi).     A  it?shi  or  saint    of  the    regal 
caste ;  a  Kshatriya  who,  through  pure  and  holy  life  on  earth, 
has  been  raised  as  a  saint  or  demigod  to  Indra's  heaven,  as 
Yiswa-mitra,  Puru-ravas,  &c. 


254  RAJA  SEKHARA—RAKSHASAS. 

KAJA  /S'EKHAK^L  A  di^amatist  who  was  the  author  of  the 
dramas  Yiddha->Salabhanjika  and  Pracha7Zf?a-Paw(iava.  He  was 
also  the  writer  of  KarjDura-Manjarl,  a  drama  entirely  in  Prakrit, 
Another  play,  Bala-Ramajawa,  is  attributed  to  him.  He  appears 
to  have  been  the  minister  of  some  Eajput,  and  to  have  lived 
about  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  century. 

EAJA-StJYA.  'A  royal  sacrifice.'  A  great  sacrifice  per- 
formed at  the  installation  of  a  king,  religious  in  its  nature  but 
pohtical  in  its  operation,  because  it  implied  that  he  who  in- 
stituted the  sacrifice  was  a  supreme  lord,  a  king  over  kings,  and 
his  tributary  princes  were  required  to  be  present  at  the  rite. 

EAJA-TAEANGIiVl.  A  Sanskrit  metrical  history  of  Kash- 
mir by  Kalhana  Pa?^it.  It  commences  with  the  days  of  fable 
and  comes  down  to  the  year  1027  a.d.  The  author  probably 
lived  about  1148  a.d.  This  is  the  only  known  work  in  Sans- 
krit which  deserves  the  name  of  a  history.  The  text  has  been 
printed  in  Calcutta.  Troyer  published  the  text  with  a  French 
translation.  Wilson  and  Lassen  have  analysed  it,  and  Dr. 
Eiililer  has  lately  reviewed  the  work  in  the  Indian  Antiquarj/. 

EAJI.  A  son  of  Ayus  and  father  of  500  sons  of  great 
valour.  In  one  of  the  chronic  wars  between  the  gods  and  the 
Asuras  it  was  declared  by  Brahma  that  the  victory  should  be 
gained  by  that  side  which  Eaji  joined.  The  Asuras  first  sought 
him,  and  he  undertook  to  aid  them  if  they  promised  to  make 
him  their  king  on  their  victory  being  secured.  They  dechned. 
The  heavenly  hosts  repaired  to  him  and  undertook  to  make 
him  their  Indra.  After  the  Asuras  were  defeated  he  became 
king  of  the  gods,  and  Indra  paid  him  homage.  Ylien  he  re- 
turned to  his  own  city,  he  left  Indra  as  his  deputy  in  heaven. 
On  Eaji's  death  Indra  refused  to  acknowledge  the  succession  of 
his  sons,  and  by  the  help  of  Brihaspati,  who  led  them  astray 
and  effected  their  ruin,  Indra  recovered  his  sovereignty. 

EAKA.  A  Erdvshasi,  wife  of  Yisravas  and  mother  of  Khara 
and  Surpa.  naklifi. 

EAKSIIASAS.  Goblins  or  evil  spirits.  They  are  not  all 
equally  hhd,  but  have  been  classified  as  of  three  sorts — one  as  a  set 
of  beings  like  the  Yakshas,  another  as  a  sort  of  Titans  or  enemies 
of  the  gods,  and  lastly,  in  the  common  acceptation  of  the  term, 
demons  and  fiends  wlio  haunt  cemeteries,  disturb  sacrifices, 
harass  devout  men,  animate  dead  bodies,  devour  human  beings, 


RAKSHASAS—RAKTA-VIJA.  255 

and  vex  and  afflict  mankind  in  all  sorts  of  ways.  These  last 
are  the  Erdvshasas  of  whom  Rava?ia  was  chief,  and  according  to 
some  authorities,  they  are  descended,  like  Ravawa  himself,  from 
the  sage  Pulastya.  According  to  other  authorities,  they  sprang 
from  Brahma's  foot.  The  YisliTiu  Purawa  also  makes  them  de- 
scendants of  Kasyapa  and  Kha^a,  a  daughter  of  Daksha,  through 
their  son  Rakshas ;  and  the  Ramayawa  states  that  when  Brahma 
created  the  waters,  he  formed  certain  beings  to  guard  them  who 
were  called  Rakshasas  (from  the  root  rokili,  to  guard,  but  the 
derivation  from  this  root  may  have  suggested  the  explanation), 
and  the  Visli?Ri  Pura?ia  gives  a  somewhat  similar  derivation. 
It  is  thought  that  the  Rakshasas  of  the  epic  poems  were  the 
rude  barbarian  races  of  India  who  were  subdued  by  the  Aryans. 

When  Hanuman  entered  the  city  of  Lanka  to  reconnoitre 
in  the  form  of  a  cat,  he  saw  that  "  the  Rakshasas  sleeping  in 
the  houses  were  of  every  shape  and  form.  Some  of  them  dis- 
gusted the  eye,  while  some  were  beautiful  to  look  upon.  Some 
had  long  arms  and  frightful  shapes ;  some  were  very  fat  and 
some  were  very  lean :  some  were  mere  dwarfs  and  some  Avere 
prodigiously  tall.  Some  had  only  one  eye  and  others  only  one 
ear.  Some  had  monstrous  bellies,  hanging  breasts,  long  pro- 
jecting teeth,  and  crooked  thighs  ;  whilst  others  were  exceedingly 
beautiful  to  behold  and  clothed  in  great  splendour.  Some  had 
two  legs,  some  three  legs,  and  some  four  legs.  Some  had  the 
heads  of  serpents,  some  the  heads  of  donkeys,  some  the  heads  of 
horses,  and  some  the  heads  of  elephants." — [Rdmdyana.) 

The  Rakshasas  have  a  great  many  ejDithets  descrij^tive  of  their 
characters  and  actions.  They  are  called  Anusaras,  Asaras,  and 
Ilanushas,  'killers  or  hurters  ;'  Ish/i-pachas,  'stealers  of  offer- 
ings;' Sandhya-balas,  'strong  in  twilight  ;'  Kshapa/as,  jSTaktan- 
charas,  Ratri-charas,  and  ^amani-shadas,  'night-walkers;'  Nr/- 
jagdhas  or  Nri-chakshas,  'cannibals;'  Palalas,  Paladas,  Palan- 
kashas,  Kravyads,  'carnivorous;'  Asra-pas,  Asr/k-pas,  Kauna- 
pas,  Kilrda-pas,  and  Rakta-pas,  'blood-drinkers;'  Danda-sukas, 
'biters;'  Praghasas,  'gluttons;'  Malina-mukhas,  'black-faced;' 
Karburas,  &c.  But  many  of  these  epithets  are  not  reserved 
exclusively  for  Rakshasas. 

RAKSHASA-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

RAKTA-YIJA.  An  Asura  whose  combat  with  the  goddess 
Chamu?ZfZa  (Devi)  is  celebrated  in  the  Devi-mahiitmya.     Each 


256  7^  A  MA. 

drop  of  his  blood  as  it  fell  on  tlie  ground  produced  a  new  Asura, 
but  Cliamuw(ia  put  an  end  to  this  by  drinking  his  blood  and 
devouring  his  flesh. 

RAMA.  There  are  three  Riimas  :  Parasu-rama,  Rama-chan- 
dra,  and  Bala-rama  ;  but  it  is  to  the  second  of  these  that  the 
name  is  specially  applied. 

RAMA,  RAMA-CHANDRA.  Eldest  son  of  Dasa-ratha,  a 
king  of  the  Solar  race,  reigning  at  Ayodhya.  This  Rama  is  the 
seventh  incarnation  of  the  god  A'ishwu,  and  made  his  appearance 
in  the  world  at  the  end  of  the  Treta  or  second  age.  His  story 
is  briefly  told  in  the  Yana  Parva  of  the  Maha-bharata,  but  it  is 
given  in  full  length  as  the  grand  subject  of  the  Ramaya^^a. 
King  Da.9a-ratha  was  childless,  and  performed  the  aswa-medlia 
sacrifice  with  scrupulous  care,  in  the  hope  of  obtaining  ofi'spring. 
His  devotion  was  accepted  by  the  gods,  and  he  received  the  pro- 
mise of  four  sons.  At  this  time  the  gods  were  in  great  terror 
and  alarm  at  the  deeds  and  menaces  of  Rava?ia,  the  Rakshasa 
king  of  Lanka,  who  had  obtained  extraordinary  power,  in  virtue 
of  severe  penances  and  austere  devotion  to  Brahma.  In  their 
terror  the  gods  appealed  to  Yishyiu  for  dehverance,  and  he 
resolved  to  become  manifest  in  the  world  with  Dasa-ratha  as 
his  human  father  Dasa-ratha  was  performing  a  sacrifice  when 
Yishwu  appeared  to  him  as  a  glorious  being  from  out  of  the 
sacrificial  fire,  and  gave  to  him  a  pot  of  nectar  for  his  wives  to 
drink.  Dasa-ratha  gave  half  of  the  nectar  to  Ivausalya,  who 
brought  forth  Rama  with  a  half  of  the  divine  essence,  a  quarter 
to  Kaikeyi,  whose  son  Bharata  was  endowed  with  a  quarter  of 
the  deity,  and  the  fourth  part  to  Su-mitra,  who  brought  forth 
two  sons,  Lakshma7ia  and  iS'atru-ghna,  each  having  an  eighth 
part  of  the  divine  essence.  The  brothers  were  all  attached  to 
each  other,  but  Lakslima??a  was  more  esj^ecially  devoted  to 
Rama  and  /Satru-ghna  to  Bharata. 

[The  two  sons  of  Su-mitra  and  the  pairing  off  of  the  brothers 
have  not  passed  without  notice.  The  version  of  the  Ramaya7?a 
given  by  Mr.  Wheeler  endeavours  to  account  for  these  circum- 
stances. It  says  that  Dam-ratha  divided  the  divine  nectar  be- 
tween his  senior  wives,  Ivausalya  and  Kaikeyi,  and  that  when 
the  younger,  Su-uiitrii,  asked  for  some,  Dasa-ratha  desired  them 
to  share  their  portions  with  her.  Each  gave  her  half,  so  Sumitrii 
received  two  quarters  and  gave  birth  to  two  sons :  "  from  the 


RAM  A.  257 

quarter  wliich  she  received  from  Kausalya  she  gave  birth  to 
Lal^shmawa,  who  became  the  ever-faithful  friend  of  Rama,  and 
from  the  quarter  she  received  from  Kaikeyi  she  gave  birtli  to 
*S^atru-ghna,  who  became  the  ever-faithful  friend  of  Bliarata." 
This  account  is  silent  as  to  the  superior  divinity  of  Riima,  and 
according  to  it  all  four  brothers  must  have  been  equals  as  mani- 
festations of  the  deity.] 

The  four  brothers  grew  up  together  at  Ayodhya,  but  while 
they  were  yet  striplings,  the  sage  Viswamitra  sought  the  aid  of 
Rama  to  protect  him  from  the  Rakshasas.  Dasa-ratha,  though 
very  unwilling,  was  constrained  to  consent  to  the  sage's  request. 
Rama  and  Lakshma?za  then  went  to  the  hermitage  of  Viswa- 
mitra,  and  there  Rama  killed  the  female  demon  Taraka,  but  it 
required  a  good  deal  of  persuasion  from  the  sage  before-  he  was 
induced  to  kill  a  female.  Viswamitra.  supplied  Rama  with 
celestial  arms,  and  exercised  a  considerable  influence  over  his 
actions.  Viswamitra  afterwards  took  Rama  and  his  brothers  to 
Mithila  to  the  court  of  Janaka  king  of  Yideha.  This  king  had 
a  lovely  daughter  named  Sita,  whom  he  offered  in  marriage  to 
any  one  who  could  bend  the  wonderful  bow  which  had  once 
belonged  to  ^Siva.  Rama  not  only  bent  the  bow  but  broke  it, 
and  thus  won  the  hand  of  the  princess,  who  became  a  most 
virtuous  and  devoted  wife.  Rama's  three  brothers  also  Avere 
married  to  a  sister  and  two  cousins  of  Sita. 

This  breaking  of  the  bow  of  jS'iva  brought  about  a  very  curious 
incident,  wliich  is  probably  an  interpolation  of  a  later  date,  in- 
troduced for  a  sectarian  purpose.  Parasu-rama,  the  sixth  incar- 
nation of  VisliTiu,  the  Brahman  exterminator  of  the  Kshatriyas, 
was  still  living  upon  earth.  He  was  a  follower  of  /S'iva,  and  was 
off'ended  at  the  breaking  of  that  deity's  boAv.  Notwithstanding 
that  he  and  Rama  were  both  incarnations  of  YisliTiu,  he  chal- 
lenged Rama  to  a  trial  of  strength  and  was  discomfited,  but 
Rama  spared  his  life  because  he  was  a  Brahman. 

Preparations  were  made  at  Ayodhya  for  the  inauguration  of 
Rama  as  successor  to  the  throne.  Kaikeyi,  the  second  wife  of 
Dasa-ratha,  and  mother  of  Bliarata,  was  her  husband's  favourite. 
She  was  kind  to  Rama  in  childhood  and  youth,  but  she  had 
a  spiteful  humpbacked  female  slave  named  Mantharil  This 
woman  worked  upon  the  maternal  afi'ection  of  her  mistress  until 
she  aroused  a  strong  feeling  of  jealousy  against  Rama.     Kaikeyi 

B 


2  53  RAA[A. 

liad  a  quarrel  and  a  long  struggle  with  her  husband,  but  he  at 
length  consented  to  install  Bharata  and  to  send  Riima  into  ex,ile 
for  fourteen  years.  Rfima  departed  with  his  wife  Sita  and  his 
brother  Lakshmawa,  and  travelling  southwards,  he  took  up  his 
abode  at  Chitra-ku^a,  in  the  Dawc/aka  forest,  between  the  Yamuna 
and  GodavarL  Soon  after  the  departure  of  Rama,  his  father 
Dasa-ratha  died,  and  Bharata  was  called  upon  to  ascend  the 
throne.  He  declined,  and  set  out  for  the  forest  with  an  ami}' 
to  brintr  Rama  back.  ^\nien  the  brothers  met  there  was  a  Ioulj 
contention.  Rama  refused  to  return  until  the  term  of  his 
father's  sentence  was  completed,  and  Bharata  declined  to  ascend 
the  throne.  At  length  it  was  arranged  that  Bharata  should 
return  and  act  as  his  brother's  vicegerent.  As  a  sign  of  Rama's 
suj^remacy  Bharata  carried  back  with  him  a  pair  of  Rama's 
shoes,  and  these  were  always  brought  out  ceremoniously  when 
business  had  to  be  transacted.  Rama  passed  ten  years  of  his 
banishment  moving  from  one  hermitage  to  another,  and  went  at 
length  to  the  hermitage  of  the  sage  Agastya,  near  the  Yindhya 
mountains.  This  holy  man  recommended  Rama  to  take  up  his 
abode  at  PanchavatI,  on  the  river  Godavari,  and  the  party 
accordingly  proceeded  thither.  This  district  was  infested  witli 
Rakshasas,  and  one  of  them  named  Siirpa-nakha,  a  sister  of 
RavaTia,  saw  Rama  and  fell  in  love  with  him.  He  repelled  her 
advances,  and  in  her  jealousy  she  attacked  Sita.  This  so  en- 
raged Lakshmawa  that  he  cut  off  her  ears  and  nose.  She  brought 
her  brothers  Khara  and  Diisharz-a  with  an  army  of  Rakshasas  to 
avenge  her  'WTongs,  but  they  were  all  destroyed.  Smarting  under 
her  mutilation  and  with  sjrretce  injuria  foi'mte,  she  repaired  to 
her  brother  Rava/ia  in  Lanka,  and  inspired  him  by  her  descrij)- 
tion  with  a  fierce  passion  for  Sita.  RavaTia  proceeded  to  Rama's 
residence  in  an  aerial  car,  and  his  accomplice  Mariclia  having 
lured  Riima  from  home,  Rava^a  assumed  the  form  of  a  religious 
mendicant  and  lulled  Sita's  apprehensions  until  he  found  an  op- 
portunity to  declare  himself  and  carry  her  off  by  force  to  Lanka. 
Rama's  despair  and  rage  at  the  loss  of  his  faithful  wife  were 
terrible.  He  and  Lakshmawa  went  in  pursuit  and  tracked  the 
ravisher.  On  tlieir  way  they  killed  Kabandlia,  a  headless 
monster,  whose  disembodied  spirit  counselled  Rama  to  seek  the 
aid  of  Su-griva,  king  of  the  monkeys.  The  two  brothers  accord- 
ingly went  on  their  way  to  Su-grlva,  and  after  overcoming  some 


RAMA.  '  259 

obstacles  and  assisting  Su-grlva  to  recover  Kislikindhya,  his 
capital,  from  his  usurping  brother  Balin,  they  entered  into  a  firm 
alliance  with  him.  Through  this  connection  Rama  got  the 
appellations  of  Kapi-prabhu  and  Kapi-ratha.  He  received  not 
only  the  sui:)port  of  all  the  forces  of  Su-grlva  and  his  allies,  but 
the  active  aid  of  Hanuman,  son  of  the  wind,  minister  and 
general  of  Su-grlva.  Hanuman's  extraordinary  powers  of  leap- 
ing and  flying  enabled  him  to  do  all  the  work  of  reconnoit- 
ring. By  superhuman  efforts  their  armies  were  transported  to 
Ceylon  by  "  Rama's  bridge,"  and  after  many  fiercely  contested 
battles  the  city  of  Lanka  was  taken,  Ravana  was  killed  and 
Sita  rescued.  The  recovery  of  his  wife  filled  Rama  with  joy, 
but  he  was  jealous  of  her  honour,  received  her  coldly,  and 
refused  to  take  her  back.  She  asserted  her  purity  in  touching 
and  dignified  language,  and  determined  to  prove  her  innocence 
by  the  ordeal  of  fire.  She  entered  the  flames  in  the  presence  of 
men  and  gods,  and  Agni,  god  of  fire,  led  her  forth  and  placed  her 
in  Rama's  arms  unhurt.  Rama  then  returned,  taking  with  him 
his  chief  allies  to  Ayodhya.  Re-united  with  his  three  brothers, 
he  was  solemnly  crowned  and  began  a  glorious  reign,  Lakshma/ia 
being  associated  with  him  in  the  government.  The  sixth  section 
of  the  Ramaya7ia  here  concludes ;  the  remainder  of  the  story  is 
told  in  the  Uttara-kawc?a,.  a  subsequent  addition.  The  treatment 
which  Slta  received  in  captivity  was  better  than  might  have 
been  expected  at  the  hands  of  a  Rakshasa.  She  had  asserted  and 
proved  her  purity,  and  Rama  believed  her  ;  but  jealous  thoughts 
would  cross  his  sensitive  mind,  and  when  his  subjects  blamed 
him  for  taking  back  his  wife,  he  resolved,  although  she  was 
pregnant,  to  send  her  to  spend  the  rest  of  her  life  at  the  hermi- 
tage of  Yalmiki.  There  she  was  delivered  of  her  twin  sons 
Kusa  and  Lava,  who  bore  upon  their  persons  the  marks  of  their 
high  paternity.  When  they  were  about  fifteen  years  old  they 
wandered  accidentally  to  Ayodhya  and  were  recognised  by  their 
father,  who  acknowledged  them,  and  recalled  Sita  to  attest  her 
innocence.  She  returned,  and  in  a  public  assembly  declared  her 
purity,  and  called  upon  the  earth  to  verify  her  words.  It  did  so. 
The  ground  opened  and  received  "  the  daughter  of  the  furrow," 
and  Rama  lost  his  beloved  and  only  wife.  Unable  to  endure  life 
without  her,  he  resolved  to  follow,  and  the  gods  favoured  his 
determination.     Time  appeared  to  him  in  the  form  of  an  ascetic 


26o  FAMA. 

and  told  him  that  he  must  stay  on  earth  or  ascend  to  heaven  and 
rule  over  the  gods.  Lakshma?ia  with  devoted  fraternal  affection 
endeavoured  to  save  his  brother  from  what  he  deemed  the 
baleful  visit  of  Time.  He  incurred  a  sentence  of  death  for  his 
interference,  and  was  conveyed  bodily  to  Indra's  heaven.  Rama 
with  great  state  and  ceremony  went  to  the  river  iSarayu,  and 
walking  into  the  water  was  hailed  by  Brahma's  voice  of  wel- 
come from  heaven,  and  entered  "into  the  glory  of  Yislinu," 

The  conclusion  of  the  story  as  told  in  the  version  of  the 
RamayaTia  used  by  Mr.  "Wlieeler  differs  materially.  It  repre- 
sents that  Sita  remained  in  exile  until  her  sons  were  fifteen  or 
sixteen  years  of  age.  Rama  had  resolved  upon  performing  the 
Aswa-medha  sacrifice ;  the  horse  was  turned  loose,  and  ^S'atru- 
ghna  followed  it  with  an  army.  Kusa  and  Lava  took  the 
horse  and  defeated  and  wounded  ^S'atru-ghna.  Rama  then  sent 
LakshmaTza  to  recover  the  horse,  but  he  was  defeated  and  left 
for  dead.  Next  Bharata  was  sent  with  Hanuman,  but  they 
were  also  defeated.  Rama  then  set  out  himself  to  repair  his 
reverses.  AVhen  the  father  and  sons  came  into  each  other's 
presence,  nature  sjDoke  out,  and  Rama  acknowledged  his  sons. 
Sita  also,  after  receiving  an  admonition  from  Yalmiki,  agreed  to 
forgive  her  husband.  They  returned  to  Ayodhya.  Rama  per- 
formed the  Aswa-medha,  and  they  passed  the  remainder  of  their 
lives  in  peace  and  joy. 

The  incidents  of  the  first  six  kaTZ^as  of  the  Ramayawa  supply 
the  j)lot  of  Bhava-bhilti's  drama  Maha-vira-charita.  The  Uttara- 
kawf/a  is  the  basis  of  his  Uttara-rama-charita.  This  describes 
Rama's  jealousy,  the  banishment  of  Sita,  and  the  birth  of  her 
sons  ;  but  the  subsequent  action  is  more  human  and  affecting 
than  in  the  poem.  Rama  repents  of  his  unjust  treatment  of  his 
wife,  and  goes  forth  to  seek  her.  The  course  of  his  wanderings 
is  depicted  with  great  poetic  beauty,  and  his  meeting  with  his 
sons  and  his  reconciliation  with  Sita  are  described  with  exquisite 
pathos  and  tenderness.     The  drama  closes  when 

"  All  conspires  to  make  their  happiness  complete.'' 

The  worship  of  Rama  still  holds  its  ground,  particularly  in 
Oude  and  Bihar,  and  he  has  numerous  worshippers.  "  It  is 
noteworthy,"  says  Professor  Williams,  "  that  the  Rilma  legends 
have  always  retained  their  purity,  and,  unlike  those  of  Brahma, 


EAMAYANA.  261 

K?isli?za,  /S'iva,  and  Durga,  have  never  been  mixed  up  with  inde- 
cencies and  licentiousness.  In  fact,  the  worship  of  Rama  has 
never  degenerated  to  the  same  extent  as  that  of  some  of  these 
other  deities."  This  is  true  ;  but  it  maybe  observed  that  Rama 
and  his  wife  were  pure;  there  was  nothing  in  their  characters  sug- 
gestive of  license  ;  and  if  "  the  husband  of  one  wife  "  and  the 
devoted  and  aliectionate  wife  had  come  to  be  associated  with 
impure  ideas,  they  must  have  lost  all  that  gave  them  a  title  to 
veneration.  The  name  of  Rama,  as  '  Ram  !  Ram  ! '  is  a  common 
form  of  salutation. 

RAMAYAiVA.  '  The  Adventures  of  Rama.'  The  oldest  of 
the  Sansk?"/t  epic  poems,  written  by  the  sage  Valmiki.  It  is  sup- 
posed to  have  been  composed  about  five  centuries  B.C.,  and  to  have 
received  its  present  form  a  century  or  two  later.  The  MSS.  of 
the  Ramayawa  vary  greatly.  There  are  two  well-known  distinct 
recensions,  the  Northern  and  the  Bengal.  The  ISTorthern  is  the 
older  and  the  purer ;  the  additions  and  alterations  in  that  of 
Bengal  are  so  numerous  that  it  is  not  trustworth}^^,  and  has  even 
been  called  "spurious."  Later  researches  have  shown  that  the 
variations  in  MSS.  found  in  ditferent  parts  of  India  are  so 
diverse  that  the  versions  can  hardly  be  classed  in  a  certain 
number  of  different  recensions.  Unfortunately  the  inferior 
edition  is  the  one  best  known  to  Europeans.  Carey  and  Marsh- 
man  translated  two  books  of  it,  and  Signor  Gorresio  has  given 
an  Italian  translation  of  the  whole.  Schlegel  published  a  Latin 
translation  of  the  first  book  of  the  I^orthern  recension.  The 
full  texts  of  both  these  recensions  have  been  printed,  and  Mr. 
Wheeler  has  given  an  epitome  of  the  whole  work  after  the  Ben- 
gal recension.     There  is  also  a  poetical  version  by  Griffiths. 

Besides  the  ancient  Ramaya?ia,  there  is  another  popular  work  of 
comparative  modern  times  called  the  Adhyatma  Ramaya^za.  The 
authorship  of  it  is  ascribed  to  Yyasa,  but  it  is  generally  con- 
sidered to  be  a  part  of  the  BrahmaTZfia  Pura?ia.  It  is  a  sort  of 
spiritualised  version  of  the  poem,  in  Mdiich  Rama  is  depicted  as 
a  saviour  and  deliverer,  as  a  god  rather  than  a  man.  It  is  divided 
into  seven  books,  which  bear  the  same  names  as  those  of  the 
original  poem,  but  it  is  not  so  long. 

The  Ramayawa  celebrates  the  life  and  exploits  of  Rama 
(Rama-chandra),  the  loves  of  Rama  and  his  wife  Sita,  the  rape 
of  the  latter  by  Rava7?a,   the  demon  king  of  Ceylon,  the  war 


262  I^AJfA  YA  XA  —RAMA  -SE  TU. 

carried  on  by  Eama  and  liis  monkey  allies  against  Eava?za,  end- 
ing in  the  destruction  of  the  demon  and  the  rescue  of  Sita,  the 
restoration  of  Kama  to  the  throne  of  Ayodhya,  his  jealousy  and 
banishment  of  Sita,  her  residence  at  the  hermitage  of  Valmiki, 
the  birth  of  her  twin  sons  Ku5a  and  Lava,  the  father's  discovery 
and  recognition  of  his  children,  the  recall  of  Sita,  the  attesta- 
tion of  her  innocence,  her  death,  Kama's  resolution  to  follow 
her,  and  his  translation  to  heaven. 

The  Kamaya/^a  is  divided  into  seven  kiiw/as  or  sections,  and 
contains  about  50,000  lines.  The  last  of  the  seven  sections  is 
probably  of  later  date  than  the  rest  of  the  work. 

1.  Bala-ka?w/a.     The  boyhood  of  Kama. 

2.  Ayodhya-kaw(/a.  The  scenes  at  Ayodhya,  and  the  banish- 
ment of  Kama  by  his  father.  King  Dasa-ratha. 

3.  AraTiya-ka/if/a.  '  Forest  section.'  Kama's  life  in  the  forest, 
and  the  rape  of  Sita  by  Kava?ia. 

4.  Kishkindliya-ka?k7a.  Kama's  residence  at  Kislikindhya, 
the  capital  of  his  monkey  ally.  King  Su-griva. 

5.  Sundara-ka?i(ia.  '  Beautiful  section. '  The  marvellous  passage 
of  the  straits  by  Kama  and  his  allies  and  their  arrival  in  Ceylon. 

6.  Yuddha-ka?ic/a.  '  War  section.'  The  war  with  Kava?2a, 
his  defeat  and  death,  the  recovery  of  Sita,  the  return  to  Ayod- 
hya and  the  coronation  of  Kama.  This  is  sometimes  called  the 
Lanka  or  Ceylon  KamZa. 

7.  Uttara-ka7iJa.  '  Later  section. '  Kama's  life  in  Ayodhya, 
his  banishment  of  Sita,  the  birth  of  his  two  sons,  his  recognition 
of  them  and  of  the  innocence  of  his  wife,  their  reunion,  her 
death,  and  his  translation  to  heaven. 

The  Avriter  or  the  compilers  of  the  Kamayawa  had  a  high  esti- 
mate of  its  value,  and  it  is  still  held  in  very  great  veneration. 
A  verse  in  the  introduction  says,  "  He  who  reads  and  repeats 
this  holy  life-giving  Kamayawa  is  liberated  from  all  his  sins  and 
exalted  with  all  his  posterity  to  the  highest  heaven;"  and  in 
the  second  chapter  Brahma  is  made  to  say,  "As  long  as  the 
mountains  and  rivers  shall  continue  on  the  surface  of  the  eartli, 
so  long  shall  the  story  of  the  Kamayana  be  current  in  the  world. " 
(For  the  age  of  the  Kamaya?za,  see  p.  190.) 

RAMA-GIKI.  'The  hill  of  Kama.'  It  stands  a  short  dis- 
tance north  of  Xagpur. 

KAMA-SETU.     '  Kama's  bridge,'  constructed  for  him  by  his 


T^AMA  TAPANIYOPANISHAD-RA  TNA  VAU.     263 

general,  Nala,  son  of  Vmva-karma,  at  the  time  of  his  invasion 
of  Ceylon.  This  name  is  given  to  the  line  of  rocks  in  the 
channel  between  the  continent  and  Ceylon,  called  in  maps 
"  Adam's  bridge." 

RAMATAPANIYOPANISHAD.  An  Upanishad  of  the 
Atharva-veda,  in  which  Rama  is  worshipped  as  the  supreme  god 
and  the  sage  Ytijnawalkya  is  his  glorifier.  It  has  been  printed 
and  translated  by  Weber  in  his  Indische  Shidien,  yo\.  ix. 

RAMBHA.  An  Apsaras  or  nymph  produced  at  the  churn- 
ing of  the  ocean,  and  popularly  the  type  of  female  beauty.  She 
was  sent  by  Indra  to  seduce  YisAvamitra,  but  was  cursed  by  that 
sage  to  become  a  stone,  and  remain  so  for  a  thousand  years. 
According  to  the  Ramaya/^a,  she  was  seen  by  Rava/ia  when  he 
went  to  Kailasa,  and  he  was  so  smitten  by  her  charms  that  he 
ravished  her,  although  she  told  him  that  she  was  the  wife  of 
Nala-kiivara,  son  of  his  brother  Kuvera. 

RAME^'WARA.  'Lord  of  Rama.'  Xame  of  one  of  the 
twelve  great  Lingas  set  up,  as  is  said,  by  Rama  at  Rameswaram 
or  Ramisseram,  which  is  a  celebrated  place  of  pilgrimage,  and 
contains  a  most  magnificent  temple. 

RAMOPAKHYAIS'A.  '  The  story  of  Rama,'  as  told  in  the 
Yana-parva  of  the  Maha-bharata.  It  relates  many,  but  far  from 
all,  of  the  incidents  celebrated  in  the  Ramaya?ia ;  it  makes  no 
mention  of  Yalmiki,  the  author  of  that  poem,  and  it  represents 
Rama  as  a  human  being  and  a  great  hero,  but  not  a  deity. 

RANTIDEYA.  A  pious  and  benevolent  king  of  the  Lunar 
race,  sixth  in  descent  from  Bharata.  He  is  mentioned  in  the 
Maha-bharata  and  Purawas  as  being  enormously  rich,  very  reli- 
gious, and  charitable  and  profuse  in  his  sacrifices.  The  former 
authority  says  that  he  had  200,000  cooks,  that  he  had  2000 
head  of  cattle  and  as  many  other  animals  slaughtered  daily 
for  use  in  his  kitchen,  and  that  he  fed  innumerable  beggars  daily 
with  beef. 

RATI.  '  Love,  desire.'  The  Yenus  of  the  Hindus,  the  god- 
dess of  sexual  pleasures,  wife  of  Kama  the  god  of  love,  and 
daughter  of  Daksha.  She  is  also  called  Reva,  Kami,  Priti, 
Kama-patni,  'wife  of  Kama;'  Kama-kala,  'part  of  Kama;'  Kama- 
priya,  '  beloved  of  Kama ; '  Raga-la/a,  '  vine  of  love ; '  Mayavatl, 
'  deceiver  ; '  Kelikila,  '  wanton  ; '  /S'ubhangi,  '  fair-limbed.' 

RATNAYALI.     '  The    necklace.'     A  drama   ascribed  to   a 


264  ^^  UCHYA—RA  VA  NA. 

king  of  Kaslimlr  named  Six  Harsha  Deva.  The  subject  of  the 
play  is  the  loves  of  Udayana  or  Vatsa,  prince  of  Kausambi,  and 
Yasava-datta,  princess  of  UjjayinL  It  was  written  between 
1 1 13  and  1 125  A.D.,  and  has  been  translated  by  Wilson.  There 
are  several  editions  of  the  text. 

EAUCHYA.     The  thirteenth  IManu.     See  INIanu. 

RAXJDRA.  A  descendant  of  Rudra.  A  name  of  Karttikeya, 
the  god  of  war. 

RAYAA^A.  The  demon  king  of  Lanka  or  Ceylon,  from 
which  he  expelled  his  half-brother  Kuvera.  He  was  son  of 
Yi^ravas  by  his  wife  Xikasha,  daughter  of  the  Rakshasa  Su-mali. 
He  was  half-brother  of  Kuvera,  and  grandson  of  the  it/shi  Pula- 
stya ;  and  as  Kuvera  is  king  of  the  Yakshas,  Ravana  is  king  of 
the  demons  called  Rakshasas.  Pulastya  is  said  to  be  the  pro- 
genitor, not  only  of  Rava?ia,  but  of  the  whole  race  of  Rakshasas. 
"By  penance  and  devotion  to  Brahma,  Rava?ia  was  made  invul- 
nerable against  gods  and  demons,  but  he  was  doomed  to  die 
tlirough  a  woman.  He  was  also  enabled  to  assume  any  form  he 
pleased.  All  Rakshasas  are  malignant  and  terrible,  but  Ravawa 
as  their  chief  attained  the  utmost  degree  of  wickedness,  and  was 
a  very  incarnation  of  evil.  He  is  described  in  the  Ramayawa  as 
having  "  ten  heads  (hence  his  names  Dasanana,  Da.sa-kan/ha, 
and  Pankti-griva),  twenty  arms,  and  copper-coloured  eyes,  and 
bright  teeth  like  the  young  moon.  His  form  was  as  a  thick 
cloud  or  a  mountain,  or  the  god  of  death  with  open  mouth.  He 
had  all  the  marks  of  royalty,  but  his  body  bore  the  impress  of 
wounds  inflicted  by  all  the  divine  arms  in  his  warfare  with  the 
gods.  It  was  scarred  by  the  thunderbolt  of  Indra,  l)y  the  tusks 
of  Indra's  elephant  Airavata,  and  by  the  discus  of  Yishwu.  His 
strength  was  so  great  that  he  could  agitate  the  seas  and  split  the 
tops  of  mountaius.  He  was  a  breaker  of  all  laws  and  a  ravisher 
of  other  men's  wives.  .  .  .  Tall  as  a  mountain  peak,  he  stopped 
with  his  arms  the  sun  and  moon  in  their  course,  and  prevented 
their  rising."  The  terror  he  inspires  is  such  that  where  he  is 
"  the  sun  does  not  give  out  its  heat,  the  winds  do  not  blow,  and 
the  ocean  becomes  motionless."  His  evil  deeds  cried  aloud  for 
vengeance,  and  the  cry  reached  heaven.  Yishmi  declared  that, 
as  Ravawa  had  been  too  proud  to  seek  protection  against  men 
and  beasts,  he  should  fall  under  their  attacks,  so  Yisli?m  became 
incarnate  as  Rama-chandra  for  the  express  purpose  of  destroying 


RAVANA.  265 

"Ravana,  and  vast  numbers  of  monkeys  and  "bears  were  created 
to  aid  in  the  enterprise.  Rama's  wars  against  the  Rakshasas 
inflicted  such  losses  upon  them  as  greatly  to  incense  Ravawa. 
Burning  with  rage,  and  excited  by  a  passion  for  Sita,  the  wife 
of  Rama,  he  left  his  island  abode,  repaired  to  Rama's  dwelling, 
assumed  the  appearance  of  a  religious  mendicant,  and  carried  off 
Sita  to  Lanka.  Ravawa  urged  Sita  to  become  his  wife,  and 
threatened  to  kill  and  eat  her  if  she  refused.  Sita  persistently 
resisted,  and  was  saved  from  death  by  the  interposition  of  one  of 
Rava?ia's  wives.  Rama  called  to  his  assistance  his  allies  Su-griva 
and  Hanumiin,  with  their  hosts  of  monkeys  and  bears.  They 
built  Rama's  bridge,  by  which  they  passed  over  into  Lanka,  and 
after  many  battles  and  wholesale  slaughter  Rava?ia  was  brought 
to  bay  at  the  city  of  Lanka.  Rama  and  Ravawa  fought  together 
on  equal  terms  for  a  long  while,  victory  sometimes  inclining  to 
one  sometimes  to  the  other.  Rama  with  a  sharp  arrow  cut  off 
one  of  Ravawa's  heads,  "  but  no  sooner  did  the  head  fall  on  the 
ground  than  another  sprang  up  in  its  room."  Rama  then  took 
an  arrow  which  had  been  made  by  Brahma,  and  discharged  it  at 
his  foe.  It  entered  his  breast,  came  out  of  his  back,  went  to  the 
ocean,  and  then  returned  clean  to  the  quiver  of  Rama.  "  Ravawa 
fell  to  the  ground  and  expired,  and  the  gods  sounded  celestial 
music  in  the  heavens,  and  assembled  in  the  sky  and  praised 
Rama  as  Yish^iu,  in  that  he  had  slain  that  Rava7ia  Avho  would 
otherwise  have  caused  their  destruction."  Rava?za,  though  he 
was  chief  among  Rakshasas,  was  a  Brahman  on  his  father's  side ; 
he  was  well  versed  in  Sansknt,  used  the  Vedic  ritual,  and  his 
body  was  burnt  with  Brahmanical  rites.  There  is  a  story  that 
Rava??.a  made  each  of  the  gods  perform  some  menial  office  in  his 
household :  thus  Agni  was  his  cook,  Yaruwa  supplied  water, 
Kuvera  furnished  money,  YajTi  swept  the  house,  &c.  The 
Vishmi  Pura?ia  relates  that  Rava?ia,  "  elevated  with  wine,  came 
on  his  tour  of  triumph  to  the  city  of  Mahishmati,  but  there  he 
was  taken  prisoner  by  King  Karta-virya,  and  confined  hke  a  beast 
in  a  corner  of  his  capital."  The  same  authority  states  that,  in 
another  birth,  Rava?za  was  ^Sisu-pala.  Ravawa's  chief  wife  was 
]\Iandodari,  but  he  had  many  others,  and  they  were  buriit  at  his 
obsequies.  His  sons  were  Megha-nada,  also  called  Indra-jit, 
Ravawi,  and  Aksha;  Tri-sikha  or  Tri-siras,  Deviintaka,  ISTarantaka, 
and  Atikaya.     See  Kandi^a. 


266  RA  VI—RIBHU. 

EAYI.     The  sun.     See  Surya. 

REiV^UKA.  Daughter  of  King  Prasenajit  or  Keren,  wife  of 
Jamad-agni,  and  mother  of  Parasu-rama.  A  sight  of  the  connubial 
endearments  of  King  Chitra-ratha  and  his  wife  inspired  her  with 
impure  thoughts,  and  her  husband,  perceiving  that  she  had 
"fallen  from  perfection,"  desired  her  sons  to  kill  her.  Ru- 
mawwat,  Su-shena,  and  Yasu,  the  three  seniors,  declined,  and 
their  father  cursed  them  so  that  they  became  idiots.  Param- 
rfima,  the  fourth  son,  cut  off  her  head,  which  act  so  gratified  his 
father  that  Jamad-agni  promised  him  whatever  blessings  he  de- 
sired. Among  other  things,  Parasu-rama  asked  that  his  mother 
might  be  brought  back  to  life  in  ignorance  of  her  death  and  in 
perfect  purity.  He  also  desired  that  his  brothers  might  be 
restored  to  their  senses.  All  this  Jamad-agni  bestowed.  She 
was  also  called  Konkana, 

REYA.     The  Narmadii  river. 

REYA.      I.  Wife  of  Karrea.     2.  A  name  of  Rati. 

REYANTA.  A  son  of  Surya  and  Sanjna.  He  is  chief  of 
the  Guhyakas,  and  is  also  called  Haya-vahana. 

RE Y ATI  Daughter  of  King  Raivata  and  wife  of  Bala-rama. 
She  was  so  beautiful  that  her  father,  thinking  no  one  upon  eartli 
worthy  of  her,  repaired  to  the  god  Brahma  to  consult  him  about 
a  husband.  Brahma  delivered  a  long  discourse  on  the  glories  of 
Yish/m,  and  directed  Raivata  to  proceed  to  Dwaraka,  where  a 
portion  of  Yishwu  was  incarnate  in  the  person  of  Bala-rama. 
Ages  had  elapsed  while  Raivata  was  in  heaven  without  his 
knowledge.  When  he  returned  to  earth,  "  he  found  the  race  of 
men  dwindled  in  stature,  reduced  in  vigour,  and  enfeebled  in 
intellect."  He  went  to  Bala-rama  and  gave  him  Revati,  but 
that  hero,  "  beholding  the  damsel  of  excessively  lofty  height,  he 
shortened  her  with  the  end  of  his  ploughshare,  and  she  became 
his  wife."  She  had  two  sons.  Revati  is  said  to  have  taken 
part  with  her  husband  in  his  drinking  bouts. 

i^/BHAYAS.     See  7^/bhus. 

it/BHU.  'Clever,  skilful.'  An  epithet  used  for  Indra, 
Agni,  and  the  Adityas.  In  the  Pura^iic  mythology,  T^ibhu  is  a 
"  son  of  the  supreme  Brahma,  who,  from  his  innate  disposition, 
was  of  a  holy  character  and  acquainted  with  true  wisdom." 
His  pupil  was  Nidagha,  a  son  of  Pulastya,  and  he  took  especial 
interest  in  his  instruction,  returning  to  him  after  two  intervals 


RIBH  US— R  IS  HA  BHA .  267 

of  a  thousand  years  "to  instruct  him  further  in  true  wisdom." 
The  YishTiu  Puraria,  "  originally  composed  by  the  ii/slii  (Nara- 
yawa),  was  communicated  by  Brahma  to  itibhu."  He  was  one 
of  the  four  Kumaras  (q.v.). 

it/BHUS.  Three  sons  of  Su-dhanwan,  a  descendant  of  An- 
giras,  severally  named  i?/bhu,  Vibhu,  and  Vaja.  Through  their 
assiduous  performance  of  good  works  they  obtained  divinity, 
exercised  superhuman  powers,  and  became  entitled  to  receive 
praise  and  adoration.  They  are  supposed  to  dwell  in  the  solar 
sphere,  and  there  is  an  indistinct  identification  of  them  with 
the  rays  of  the  sun ;  but,  whether  typical  or  not,  they  prove  the 
admission,  at  an  early  date,  of  the  doctrine  that  men  might 
become  divinities. — WiUon.  They  are  celebrated  in  the  i^ig-veda 
as  skiKul  workmen,  who  fashioned  Indra's  chariot  and  horses, 
and  made  their  parents  young  again.  By  command  of  the  gods, 
and  with  a  promise  of  exaltation  to  divine  honours,  they  made 
a  single  new  sacrificial  cup  into  four.  They  are  also  spoken  of 
as  supporters  of  the  sky. 

i^/BHUKSHAN.  The  first  of  the  three  i^ibhus.  In  the 
plural,  the  three  itfbhus. 

ii/CHIKA.  A  i?fshi  descended  from  Bhrigu  and  husband 
of  Satyavati,  son  of  tJrva  and  father  of  Jamad-agni.  {^te 
Viswamitra.)  In  the  Maha-bharata  and  Yislmu  PuraTza  it  is 
related  that  jR/chika  was  an  old  man  when  he  demanded  in 
marriage  Satyavati,  the  daughter  of  Gadhi,  king  of  Kanya-kubja. 
Unwilling  to  give  her  to  so  old  a  man,  Gadhi  demanded  of  him 
1000  white  horses,  each  of  them  having  one  black  ear.  i?/chika 
obtained  these  from  the  god  Yarn??a,  and  so  gained  his  wife. 
According  to  the  Eamayawa,  he  sold  his  son  /S'unaA-i'ephas  to  be 
a  sacrifice. 

it/DDHI.  '  Prosperity.'  The  wife  of  Kuvera,  god  of  wealth. 
The  name  is  also  used  for  ParvatT,  the  wife  of  /Siva. 

2?/G-VEDA.     See  Veda. 

jR/G-YIDHAISrA.  Writings  which  treat  of  the  mystic  and 
jnagic  efiicacy  of  the  recitation  of  hymns  of  the  iiig-veda,  or 
even  of  single  verses.  Some  of  them  are  attributed  to  iS'aunaka, 
but  probably  belong  only  to  the  time  of  the  PuraTzas.  —  Weher. 

it/SHABHA.  Son  of  Nabhi  and  Meru,  and  father  of  a 
hundred  sons,  the  eldest  of  whom  was  Bharata.  He  gave  his 
kingdom  to  his  son  and  retired  to  a  hermitage,  where  he  led  a 


268  RISHI—RISHYA-SRINGA. 

life  of  sucli  severe  austerity  and  abstinence,  that  lie  became  a 
mere  "  collection  of  skin  and  fibres,  and  went  the  way  of  all 
flesh."  The  Bhagavata  Pura7za  speaks  of  his  wanderings  in  the 
western  part  of  the  Peninsula,  and  connects  him  with  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Jain  religion  in  those  parts.  The  name  of  the 
first  Jain  Tirthakara  or  saint  was  i?isliabha. 

it/SHL  An  inspired  poet  or  sage.  The  inspired  persons  to 
whom  the  hymns  of  the  Vedas  were  revealed,  and  under  whose 
names  they  stand.  "  The  seven  it/shis "  (sajjtarshi),  or  the 
Praja-patis,  "  the  mind-born  sons  "  of  Brahma,  are  often  referred 
to.  In  the  ^S'atapatha  BrahmaTia  their  names  are  given  as  Go- 
tama,  Bharadwaja,  Viswamitra,  Jamad-agni,  Yasish/ha,  Kas^'apa, 
and  Atri.  The  Maha-bharata  gives  them  as  ]\larlchi,  Atri, 
Angiras,  Pulaha,  Kratu,  Pulastya,  and  Yasish/ha.  The  Yayu 
Purawa  adds  Bh?'/gu  to  this  list,  making  eight,  although  it 
still  calls  them  "  seven."  The  Yishwu  Pura?za,  more  consistently, 
adds  Bhr/gu  and  Daksha,  and  calls  them  the  nine  Brahmarshis 
(Brahma-rishis).  The  names  of  Gautama,  Kawwa,  Yalmiki, 
Yyasa,  Manu,  and  Yibha?ic?aka  are  also  enumerated  among  the 
great  itishis  by  different  authorities.  Besides  these  great  jR?shis 
there  are  many  other  Bishis.  The  seven  i?/shis  are  represented 
in  the  sky  by  the  seven  stars  of  the  Great  Bear,  and  as  such  are 
called  itz'ksha  and  Chitra-sikha?if/inas,  '  having  bright  crests.' 

^/SHI-BRAHMAYA.  An  old  Anukrama?^/,  or  Index  of  the 
Sama-veda. 

i^/SHYA-MUKA.  A  mountain  in  the  Dakhin,  near  the 
source  of  the  Pampa  river  and  the  lake  Pampa.  Eama  abode 
there  for  a  time  with  the  monkeys. 

EISKYA-SBI^GA.  '  The  deer-horned.'  A  hermit,  the  son 
of  Yibha?Z(iaka,  descended  from  Kasyapa.  According  to  the 
RamayaT^a  and  Maha-bharata  he  was  born  of  a  doe  and  had  a 
small  horn  on  his  forehead.  He  was  brought  up  in  the  forest  by 
his  father,  and  saw  no  other  human  being  till  he  was  verging  upon 
manhood.  There  was  great  drought  in  the  country  of  Anga,  and 
the  king,  Lomapada,  was  advised  by  his  Brahnians  to  send  for 
the  youth  i^ishya-snnga,  who  should  marry  his  daughter  iSanta, 
and  be  the  means  of  obtaining  rain.  A  number  of  fair  damsels 
were  sent  to  bring  him.  He  accompanied  them  back  to  their 
city,  the  desired  rain  fell,  and  he  married  iSanta.  This  *S^anta 
was  the  adopted  daughter  of  Lomapada ;   her  real   father  was 


RITU-PARNA— RUBRA.  269 

Dasa-ratlia,  and  it  was  i^/shya-snnga  who  performed  that  sacri- 
fice for  Dasa-ratha  which  brought  about  the  birth  of  Rama. 

i?/TU-PARiVA.  A  king  of  Ayodhya,  and  son  of  Sarva- 
kuma,  into  whose  service  Nala  entered  after  he  had  lost  his 
kingdom.     He  was  "skilled  profoundly  in  dice." 

i?/TU-S ANKARA.  'Tlie  round  of  the  seasons.'  A  poem 
attributed  to  Kali-dasa.  This  poem  was  published  by  Sir  W. 
Jones,  and  was  the  first  Sanskrit  work  ever  printed.  There  are 
other  editions.      It  has  been  translated  into  Latin  by  Bohlen. 

ROHIiVl.  I.  Daughter  of  Kasyapa  and  Surabhi,  and  mother 
of  horned  cattle,  including  Kama-dhenu,  the  cow  which  grants 
desires.  2.  Daughter  of  Daksha  and  fourth  of  the  lunar  as- 
terisms,  the  favourite  wife  of  the  moon.  3.  One  of  the  wives 
of  Vasu-deva,  the  father  of  Knsh?ia  and  mother  of  Bala-rama. 
She  was  burned  with  her  husband's  corpse  at  Dwaraka.  4. 
Krish/ia  himself  also  had  a  wife  so  called,  and  the  name  is 
common. 

ROHITA.  'Red.'  A  red  horse;  a  horse  of  the  sun  or 
of  fire.  I.  A  deity  celebrated  in  the  Atharva-veda,  probably 
a  form  of  fire  or  the  sun.  2.  Son  of  King  Haris-chandra.  He 
is  also  called  Rohitaswa.  The  fort  of  Rohtas  is  said  to  derive 
its  name  from  him.     See  Hari.s-chandra. 

ROMA-HARSHAiVA.     See  Loma-harsha?ia. 

RUDRA.  'A  howler  or  roarer;  terrible.'  In  the  Yedas 
Rudra  has  many  attributes  and  many  names.  He  is  the  howl- 
ing terrible  god,  the  god  of  storms,  the  father  of  the  Rudras 
or  Maruts,  and  is  sometimes  identified  with  the  god  of  fire. 
On  the  one  hand  he  is  a  destructive  deity  who  brings  diseases 
upon  men  and  cattle,  and  upon  the  other  he  is  a  beneficent 
deity  supposed  to  have  a  healing  influence.  These  are  the  germs 
which  afterwards  developed  into  the  god  >S'iva.  It  is  worthy  of 
note  that  Rudra  is  first  called  Maha-deva  in  the  "WHiite  Yajur- 
veda.  As  applied  to  the  god  6'iva,  the  name  of  Rudra  generally 
designates  him  in  his  destructive  character.  In  the  Bnliad- 
ara7iyaka  Upanishad  the  Rudras  are  "  ten  vital  breaths  (prdna) 
with  the  heart  (inanas)  as  eleventh."  In  the  VisliTiu  Purawa 
the  god  Rudra  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  the  forehead  of 
Brahma,  and  at  the  command  of  that  god  to  have  separated  his 
nature  into  male  and  female,  then  to  have  multiplied  each  of 
these  into  eleven  persons,  some  of  which  were  white  and  gentle, 


270  RUDRA-SAVARNA—SABALASWAS. 

others  black  and  furious.  Elsewhere  it  is  said  that  the  eleven 
Eudras  were  sons  of  Kasyapa  and  Surabhi,  and  in  another 
chapter  of  the  same  Purawa  it  is  represented  that  Brahma 
desired  to  create  a  son,  and  that  Rudra  came  into  existence  as  a 
youth.  He  wept  and  asked  for  a  name.  Brahma  gave  him  the 
name  of  Rudra ;  but  he  wept  seven  times  more,  and  so  he 
obtained  seven  other  names  :  Bhava,  iSarva,  Isana,  Pai'upati, 
Bhima,  Ugra,  and  Maha-deva.  Other  of  the  Purawas  agree  in 
this  nomenclature.  These  names  are  sometimes  used  for  Rudra 
or  ^S'iva  himself,  and  at  others  for  the  seven  manifestations  of 
him,  sometimes  called  his  sons.  The  names  of  the  eleven 
Rudras  vary  considerably  in  different  books. 

RUDRA-SAVARiYA.     The  twelfth  Manu.     See  Manu. 

RUKMIIS".  A  son  of  King  Bhishmaka  and  king  of  Yidarbha, 
who  offered  his  services  to  the  Pa7i6?avas  and  Kauravas  in  turn, 
but  was  rejected  by  both  on  account  of  his  extravagant  boast- 
ings and  pretensions.  He  was  brother  of  Rukmim,  with  whom 
K?7'sh?ia  eloped.  Rukmin  pursued  the  fugitives  and  overtook 
them,  but  his  army  was  defeated  by  Kri'shwa,  and  he  owed  his 
life  to  the  entreaties  of  his  sister.  He  founded  the  city  of 
Bhoja-ka/a,  and  was  eventually  killed  by  Bala-rama. 

RUKMIA^i.  Daughter  of  Bhishmaka,  king  of  Yidarbha. 
According  to  the  Hari-vansa  she  was  sought  in  marriage  by 
K?-ish?2a,  with  whom  she  fell  in  love.  But  her  brother  Rukmin 
was  a  friend  of  Kan^a,  whom  K?'ish7ia  had  killed.  He  therefore 
opposed  him  and  thwarted  the  match.  Rukmi?ii  was  then 
betrothed  to  iS'isu-pala,  king  of  Chedi,  but  on  her  wedding  day, 
as  she  was  going  to  the  temple,  "  Krishna  saw  her,  took  her  by 
the  hand,  and  carried  her  away  in  his  chariot."  They  were 
pursued  by  her  intended  husband  and  by  her  brother  Rukmin, 
but  Knsh?za  defeated  them  both,  and  took  her  safe  to  Dwaraka, 
where  he  married  her.  She  was  his  principal  wife  and  bore  him 
a  son,  Pradyumna  (q.v.).  By  him  also  she  had  nine  other  sons 
and  one  daughter.  "These  other  sons  were  Charu-deshwa, 
Su-deslma,  Charu-deha,  Su-shena,  Charu-gupta,  Bhadra-charu, 
Charu-vinda,  Su-charu,  and  the  very  miglity  Cliaru ;  also  one 
daughter,  Charu-matl."  At  K?'ish?ia's  death  she  and  seven  other 
of  his  wives  immolated  themselves  on  his  funeral  pile, 

RtJIMA.     \Yife  of  the  monkey  king  Su-grlva. 

/S'ABALAaS^WAS.     Sons  of  Daksha,  one  thousand  in  number, 


SACHI—SAGARA.  271 

brought  fortli  after  the  loss  of  the  Harya.9was.  Like  their  pre- 
decessors, they  were  dissuaded  by  Narada  from  begetting  oil- 
spring,  and  "  scattered  themselves  through  the  regions  "  never 
to  return. 

aS^ACHL     Wife  of  Indra.     See  Indra^ii. 

SADHYAS.  A  Garnx  or  class  of  inferior  deities  ;  the  per- 
sonified rites  and  prayers  of  the  Vedas  who  dwell  with  the 
gods  or  in  the  intermediate  region  between  heaven  and  earth. 
Their  number  is  twelve  according  to  one  authority,  and  seven- 
teen according  to  another,  and  the  PuraTias  make  them  sons 
of  Dharma  and  Sadhya,  daughter  of  Daksha. 

SAGAKA.  A  king  of  Ayodhya,  of  the  Solar  race,  and  son 
of  King  Bahu,  who  was  driven  out  of  his  dominions  by  the 
Haihayas.  Biihu  took  refuge  in  the  forest  with  his  wives. 
Sagara's  mother  was  then  pregnant,  and  a  rival  wife,  being 
jealous,  gave  her  a  drug  to  prevent  her  delivery.  This  poison 
confined  the  child  in  the  womb  for  seven  years,  and  in  the 
interim  Bahu  died.  The  pregnant  wife  wished  to  ascend  his 
pyre,  but  the  sage  Aurva  forbad  her,  predicting  that  she  would 
give  birth  to  a  valiant  universal  monarch.  When  the  child  was 
born,  Aurva  gave  him  the  name  of  Sagara  (sa,  '  with,'  and  garcij 
*  poison ').  The  child  grew  up,  and  having  heard  his  father's 
history,  he  vowed  that  he  would  exterminate  the  Haihayas  and 
the  other  barbarians,  and  recover  his  ancestral  kingdom.  He 
obtained  from  Aurva  the  Agneyastra  or  fire  weapon,  and,  armed 
with  this,  he  put  nearly  the  whole  of  the  Haihayas  to  death 
and  regained  his  throne.  He  would  also  "  have  destroyed  the 
/S'akas,  Yavanas,  Kambojas,  Paradas,  and  Pahlavas,"  but  they 
applied  to  Yasishifha,  Sagara's  family  priest,  and  he  induced 
Sagara  to  spare  them,  but  "he  made  the  Yavanas  shave  their 
heads  entirely  ;  the  Sakas  he  compelled  to  shave  (the  upper) 
half  of  their  heads  ;  the  Paradas  wore  their  hair  long ;  and  the 
Pahlavas  let  their  beards  grow  in  obedience  to  his  commands." 
Sagara  married  two  wives,  Su-mati,  the  daughter  of  Kasyapa,  and 
Kesini,  the  daughter  of  Kaja  Yidarbha,  but  having  no  children, 
he  besought  the  sage  Aurva  for  this  boon.  Aurva  promised 
that  one  wife  should  have  one  son ;  the  other,  sixty  thousand. 
Kesini  chose  the  one,  and  her  son  was  Asamanjas,  through 
whom  the  royal  line  was  continued.  Su-mati  had  sixty  thou- 
sand sons.      Asamanjas  was   a  wild  immoral   youth,  and  his 


272  SAGARA—SAHA-DEVA. 

father  abandoned  him.  The  other  sixty  thousand  sons  followed 
the  courses  of  their  brother,  and  their  impiety  was  such  that 
the  gods  complained  of  them  to  the  sage  Kapila  and  the  god 
Vish/iu.  Sagara  engaged  in  the  performance  of  an  As^Ya-nledlla 
or  sacrifice  of  a  horse,  but  although  the  animal  was  guarded  by 
his  sixty  thousand  sons,  it  was  carried  off  to  Piitala.  Sagara 
directed  his  sons  to  recover  it.  They  dug  their  way  to  the 
infernal  regions,  and  there  they  found  the  horse  grazing  and  the 
sage  Kapila  seated  close  by  engaged  in  meditation.  Conceiving 
him  to  be  the  thief,  they  menaced  him  with  their  weapons. 
Disturbed  from  his  devotions,  "  he  looked  uj^on  them  for  an 
instant,  and  they  were  reduced  to  ashes  by  the  (sacred)  flame 
that  darted  from  his  person."  Their  remains  were  discovered 
by  Ansumat,  the  son  of  Asamanjas,  who  prayed  Kapila  that  the 
victims  of  his  wrath  might  be  raised  through  his  favour  to 
heaven.  Kapila  promised  that  the  grandson  of  An.sumat  should 
be  the  means  of  accomplishing  this  by  bringing  down  the  river 
of  heaven.  Ansumat  then  returned  to  Sagara,  who  comj^leted 
his  sacrifice,  and  he  gave  the  name  of  Sagara  to  the  chasm 
which  his  sons  had  dug,  and  Sagara  means  '  ocean.'  The  son  of 
Ansumat  was  Dilipa,  and  his  son  was  Bhagiratha.  The  devo- 
tion of  Bhagiratha  brought  down  from  heaven  the  holy  Ganges, 
wliich  flows  from  the  toe  of  Yishwu,  and  its  waters  having  laved 
the  ashes  of  the  sons  of  Sagara,  cleansed  them  from  all  impurity. 
Their  Manes  were  thus  made  fit  for  the  exequial  ceremonies  and 
for  admission  into  Sw^arga.  The  Ganges  received  the  name  of 
Sagara  in  honour  of  Sagara,  and  Bhagirathi  from  the  name  of 
the  devout  king  whose  prayers  brought  her  down  to  earth.  {See 
Bhagirathi.)  The  Hari-vansa  adds  another  marvel  to  the  story. 
Sagara's  wife  Su-mati  was  delivered  of  a  gourd  containing  sixty 
thousand  seeds,  which  became  embryos  and  grew.  Sagara  at 
first  placed  them  in  vessels  of  milk,  but  afterwards  each  one  had 
a  separate  nurse,  and  at  ten  months  they  all  ran  about.  The 
name  of  Sagara  is  frequently  cited  in  deeds  conveying  grants  of 
land  in  honour  of  his  generosity  in  respect  of  such  gifts. 

SAHA-DEVA.  The  youngest  of  the  five  Vixndu  princes, 
twin  son  of  IMadrl,  the  second  wife  of  Pam/u,  and  mythologically 
son  of  the  Aswins,  or  more  specifically  of  the  A.swin  Da^ra. 
He  was  learned  in  the  science  of  astronomy,  which  he  had 
studied  under  Drona,  and  he  was  also  well  acquainted  with  the 


SAHASRAKSHA—SAKATAYANA.  273 

management  of  cattle.  {See  Maha-bharata.)  He  had  a  son 
named  Sii-hotra  by  his  wife  Vijaya. 

SAHASRAKSIIA.  '  Thousand  -  eyed.'  An  epithet  of 
Indra. 

SAHITYA-DARPAiVA.  'The  mirror  of  composition.'  A 
celebrated  work  on  poetry  and  rhetoric  by  Yiswanatha  Kavi 
Raja,  written  about  the  fifteenth  century.  It  has  been  trans- 
lated into  English  for  the  Bibliotheca  Indica.  There  are  several 
editions  of  the  text. 

aS'AIBYA.  Wife  of  Haris-chandra  (q.v.);  wife  of  Jyamagha 
(q.v.)  ;  wife  of  /S'ata-dhanu  (q.v.). 

SAINDHAYAS.  The  people  of  Sindhu  or  Sindh,  of  the 
country  between  the  Indus  and  the  Jhilam. 

SAIYA  PURAiVA.     Same  as  ^S'iva  Purawa. 

<S^AKA.  An  era  commencing  78  a.d.,  and  called  the  era  of 
/Sahvahana.  Cunningham  supposes  its  epoch  to  be  connected 
Avith  a  defeat  of  the  iSakas  by  /Salivahana. 

aSAKALA.  The  city  of  the  Bahikas  or  Madras,  in  the  Pan- 
jab.  It  has  been  identified  with  the  Sagala  of  Ptolemy  on  the 
Hyphasis  (Byas),  south-west  of  Lahore.  Cunningham  says  it  is 
the  Sangala  of  Alexander. 

^AKALYA.  An  old  grammarian  and  expositor  of  the  Vedas 
who  lived  before  the  time  of  Yaska.  He  is  said  to  have  divided 
a  Sanhita  of  the  Yeda  into  five,  and  to  have  taught  these  por- 
tions to  as  many  disciples.  He  was  also  called  Veda-mitra  and 
Deva-mitra. 

/S'AKAPUiYI,  ^AKAPtJRYI.  An  author  who  arranged  a 
part  of  the  itig-veda  and  appended  a  glossary.  He  lived  before 
the  time  of  Yaska. 

/SAKAS.  A  northern  people,  usually  associated  with  the 
Yavanas.  Wilson  says,  "These  people,  the  Sakai  and  Sacae  of 
classical  writers,  the  Indo- Scythians  of  Ptolemy,  extended,  about 
the  commencement  of  our  era,  along  the  West  of  India,  from  the 
Hindu  Koh  to  the  mouths  of  the  Indus."  They  were  probably 
Turk  or  Tatar  tribes,  and  were  among  those  recorded  as  con- 
quered by  King  Sagara,  who  compelled  them  to  shave  the  upper 
half  of  their  heads.  They  seem  to  have  been  encountered  and 
kept  back  by  King  Yikramaditya  of  UjjayinT,  who  was  called 
*S^akari,  '  foe  of  the  >S'akas.' 

/S'AKArAYAI^A.    An  ancient  grammarian  anterior  to  Yaska 

s 


274  SAKHA— SAKUNTALA. 

and  Pamni.  Part  of  his  work  is  said  to  have  been  lately  dis- 
covered by  Dr.  Biihler. 

iS'AKHA.  '  Branch,  sect.'  The  /S'akhas  of  the  Vedas  are  the 
different  recensions  of  the  same  text  as  taught  and  handed 
down  traditionally  by  different  schools  and  teachers,  show- 
ing some  slight  variations,  the  effect  of  long-continued  oral 
tradition.     See  Veda. 

/S'AKIoSriS.     Female  demons  attendant  on  Durga. 

iS'AKRA.     A  name  of  Indra. 

/S'AKKAA^I.     Wife  of  Indra.     See  Indrara. 

aSAKRA-PRASTHA.     Same  as  Indra-prastha. 

SAKTA.     A  worshipper  of  the  ^Saktis. 

aSAKTI.  The  wife  or  the  female  energy  of  a  deity,  but 
especially  of  >S^iva.     See  Devi  and  Tantra. 

^AKTI,  ^S'AKTRI.  A  priest  and  eldest  son  of  Yasish/ha. 
King  Kalmasha-pada  struck  him  with  a  whip,  and  he  cursed 
the  king  to  become  possessed  by  a  man-eating  Rakshasa.  He 
himself  became  the  first  victim  of  the  monster  he  had  evoked. 

iSAKUXI.  Brother  of  Queen  Gandliari,  and  so  uncle  of  the 
Ivaurava  princes.  He  was  a  skilful  gambler  and  a  cheat,  so  he 
was  selected  to  be  the  opponent  of  Yudhi-sh/hira  in  the  match 
in  which  that  prince  was  induced  to  stake  and  lose  his  all.  He 
also  was  known  by  the  patronymic  Saubala,  from  Su-bala,  his 
father. 

>SAIvXJjN^TALA.  a  nymph  who  was  the  daughter  of  Viswa- 
mitra  by  the  nymph  Menaka.  She  was  born  and  left  in  a 
forest,  where  she  was  nourished  by  birds  until  found  by  the 
sage  KaTZwa.  She  was  brought  up  by  this  sage  in  his  her- 
mitage as  his  daughter,  and  is  often  called  his  daughter. 
The  loves,  marriage,  separation,  and  re-union  of  /S'akuntalii  and 
King  Dushyanta  are  the  subject  of  the  celebrated  drama  iSakun- 
tala.  She  was  mother  of  Bharata,  the  head  of  a  long  race  of 
kings,  who  has  given  his  name  to  India  ( Bharata- varsha),  and 
the  wars  of  Avhose  descendants  are  sung  in  the  Maha-bharata, 
The  story  of  the  loves  of  Dushyanta  and  *S'akuntala  is,  that 
while  she  was  living  in  the  hermitage  of  Ka?iwa  she  was 
seen  in  the  forest  by  King  Dushyanta,  who  fell  in  love  with 
her.  He  induced  her  to  contract  with  him  a  Gandharva  mar- 
riage, that  is,  a  simple  declaration  of  mutual  acceptance.  On 
leaving  her  to  return  to  his  city,  he  gave  her  a  ring  as  a  pledge 


SALAGRAMA—SAMA-VIDHANA  BRAHMANA.    275 

of  his  love.  When  the  nymph  when  back  to  the  hermitage,  she 
was  so  engrossed  with  thoughts  of  her  husband  that  she  heeded 
not  the  approach  of  the  sage  Dur-vasas,  who  had  come  to  visit 
Kawwa,  so  that  choleric  saint  cursed  her  to  be  forgotten  by  her 
beloved.  He  afterwards  relented,  and  promised  that  the  curse 
should  be  removed  as  soon  as  Dushyanta  should  see  the  ring. 
/Sakuntala,  finding  herself  with  child,  set  off  to  her  husband ; 
but  on  her  way  she  bathed  in  a  sacred  pool,  and  there  lost  the 
ring.  On  reaching  the  palace,  the  king  did  not  recognise  her 
and  would  not  own  her,  so  she  was  taken  by  her  mother  to  the 
forest,  where  she  gave  birth  to  Bharata.  Then  it  happened  that 
a  fisherman  caught  a  large  fish  and  in  it  found  a  ring  which  he 
carried  to  Dushyanta.  The  king  recognised  his  own  ring,  and 
he  soon  afterwards  accepted  /S'akuntala  and  her  son  Bharata. 
Ivali-dasa's  drama  of  /S'akuntala  was  the  first  translation  made 
from  Sansk7'it  into  English.  It  excited  great  curiosity  and 
gained  much  admiration  when  it  appeared.  There  are  several 
recensions  of  the  text  extant.  The  text  has  been  often  printed, 
and  there  are  many  translations  into  the  languages  of  Europe.  ' 
Professor  WiUiams  has  published  a  beautifully  illustrated  trans- 
lation. 

iS'ALAGRAMA.  A  stone  held  sacred  and  worshipped  by  the 
Vaish?2avas,  because  its  spirals  are  supposed  to  contain  or  to  be 
typical  of  Yish7m.  It  is  an  ammonite  found  in  the  river  Gan- 
dak,  and  is  valued  more  or  less  highly  according  to  the  number 
of  its  spirals  and  perforations. 

/S'ALIVAHANA.  A  celebrated  king  of  the  south  of  India, 
who  was  the  enemy  of  Vikramaditya,  and  whose  era,  the  /S'aka, 
dates  from  a.d.  78.  His  capital  was  Prati-sh/hana  on  the 
Godavarl.     He  was  killed  in  battle  at  Karur. 

aSALAYA.  Name  of  a  country  in  the  west  of  India,  or  Raja- 
sthan  ;  also  the  name  of  its  king. 

/S^ALYA.  King  of  the  Madras,  and  brother  of  ]\Iadri,  second 
wife  of  Pa7Zf?u.  In  the  great  war  he  left  the  side  of  the  Paw^a- 
vas  and  went  OA^er  to  the  Kauravas.  He  acted  as  charioteer  of 
Kar/ia  in  the  great  battle.  At  the  death  of  Karwa  he  suc- 
ceeded him  as  general,  and  commanded  the  army  on  the  last  day 
of  the  battle,  when  he  was  slain  by  Yudhi-sh/hira. 

SAMA-YEDA.     The  third  Yeda.     See  Yeda. 

SAMA-YIDHANA   BRAIDIAA^A.     The   third    Brahmawa 


276      samayachArika  sutras—sambara. 

of  the  Sama-veda.  It  has  been  edited  and  translated  by  Bur- 
nelL 

SAMAYACHARIKA  SUTRAS.  Rules  for  the  usages  and 
practices  of  everyday  life.     See  Siitras. 

aS'AMBA.  a  son  of  K?i'sh7za  by  Jambavati,  but  the  Linga 
Puraiia  names  Rukmi?ii  as  his  mother.  At  the  swayam-vara  of 
Draupadi  he  carried  off  that  princess,  but  he  was  pursued  by 
Dur-yodhana  and  his  friends  and  made  prisoner.  Bala-rama 
undertook  to  obtain  his  release,  and  when  that  hero  thrust  his 
ploughshare  under  the  ramparts  of  Hastina-pura  and  threatened 
it  with  ruin,  the  Kauravas  gave  up  their  prisoner,  and  Bala- 
rama  took  him  to  Dwaraka,  There  he  lived  a  dissolute  life  and 
scoffed  at  sacred  things.  The  devotions  of  the  three  great  sages, 
Viswamitra,  Dur-vasas,  and  Narada,  excited  the  ridicule  of  /Samba 
and  his  boon  companions.  They  dressed  iSamba  up  to  represent 
a  woman  with  child  and  took  him  to  the  sages,  inquiring 
whether  he  would  give  birth  to  a  boy  or  a  girl.  The  sages 
answered,  "  This  is  not  a  woman,  but  the  son  of  Krish?za,  and 
he  shall  bring  forth  an  iron  club  which  shall  destroy  the  w^hole 
race  of  Yadu,  .  .  .  and  you  and  all  your  people  shall  perish  by 
that  club."  /Samba  accordingly  brought  forth  an  iron  club, 
which  Ugrasena  caused  to  be  pounded  and  cast  into  the  sea. 
These  ashes  produced  rushes,  and  the  rushes  when  gathered 
turned  into  clubs,  or  into  reeds  which  were  used  as  swords. 
One  piece  could  not  be  crushed.  This  was  subsequently  found 
in  the  belly  of  a  fish,  and  was  used  to  tip  an  arrow,  which 
arrow  was  used  by  the  hunter  Jaras,  who  with  it  unintentionally 
killed  K?ishwa.  Under  the  curse  of  Dur-vasas,  /Samba  became  a 
leper  and  retired  to  the  Panjab,  where  by  fasting,  penance,  and 
prayer  he  obtained  the  favour  of  Siirya  (the  sun),  and  was  cured 
of  his  leprosy.  He  built  a  temple  to  the  sun  on  the  banks  of 
the  Chandra-bhaga  (Chinab),  and  introduced  the  worship  of  that 
luminary. 

ASA^MBA-PURAiVA.     See  Purawa. 

aSAMBARA.  In  the  A^edas,  a  demon,  also  called  a  Dasyu, 
who  fought  a^i^ainst  Kincj  Divodiisa,  but  was  defeated  and  had 
his  many  castles  destroyed  by  Indra.  He  appears  to  be  a 
mythical  personification  of  drought,  of  a  kindred  character  to 
V?-itra,  or  identical  with  him.  In  the  Pura/ias  a  Daitya  who 
carried  off  Pradyumna  and  threw  him  into  the  sea,  but  was 


SAMBHU—SANDHYA.  277 

subsequently  slain  by  bim.      (See  Pradyumna.)     lie  was  also 
employed  by  Hirawya-kasipu  to  destroy  Prablada. 

yS'AMBHU,     A  name  of  /Siva  ;  also  one  of  the  Rudras. 

/SAMBUKA.  A  A^udra,  mentioned  in  the  Raghu-vansa,  who 
performed  religious  austerities  and  jDenances  improper  for  a  man 
of  his  caste,  and  was  consequently  killed  by  Rama-chandra. 

iS'AMI.  The  Acacia  suma,  the  wood  of  which  is  used  for 
obtaining  fire  by  friction.  So  Agni,  or  fire,  is  called  /Sami- 
garbha,  'having  the  yS'ami  for  its  womb.'  It  is  sometimes  per- 
sonified and  worshipped  as  a  goddess,  /S'ami-devi. 

SAMP  ATI.  A  mythical  bird  who  appears  in  the  RamayaTia 
as  son  of  Yishmi's  bird  Garuda,  and  brother  of  Ja/ayus.  Ac- 
cording to  another  account  he  was  son  of  AruTza  and  A^yeni. 
He  was  the  ally  of  Rama. 

SAMYARAA^A.  Son  of  it/ksha,  fourth  in  descent  from 
Ikshwaku,  and  father  of  Kuru.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata 
he  was  driven  from  Hastina-pura  by  the  Panchalas,  and  forced 
to  take  refuge  among  the  thickets  of  the  Indus.  When  the 
sage  Vasish/ha  joined  his  people  and  became  the  Raja's  family 
priest,  they  recovered  their  country  under  Kuru. 

SAMVARTA.  Writer  of  a  Dharma-sastra  or  code  of  law 
bearing  his  name. 

SAM  VAT,  SAMYATSARA.  '  Year.'  The  era  of  Yikrama- 
ditya,  dating  from  57  b.c. 

/SAN AI5'-CHARA.   '  Slow-moving. '  A  name  of  Sam  or  Saturn. 

SANAKA,  SANANDA,  SANATANA,  SANAT-KUMARA. 
The  four  Ivumaras  or  mind-born  sons  of  Brahma.  Some  specify 
seven.  Sanat-kumara  (or  Sanat-sujata)  was  the  most  prominent 
of  them.  They  are  also  called  by  the  patronymic  Yaidliatra. 
See  Kumara. 

SANAT-KUMARA  PURAiVA.     See  Pura??a. 

SAiSTDHYA.  'Twilight.'  It  is  personified  as  the  daughter 
of  Brahma  and  wife  of  /Siva.  In  the  Siva  Pura/ia  it  is  related 
that  Brahma  having  attempted  to  do  violence  to  his  daughter, 
she  changed  herself  into  a  deer.  Brahma  then  assumed  the  form 
of  a  stag  and  pursued  her  through  the  sky.  Siva  saw  this,  and 
shot  an  arrow  which  cut  off"  the  head  of  the  stag.  Bralima  then 
reassumed  his  own  form  and  paid  homage  to  Sixa.  The  arrow 
remains  in  the  sky  in  the  sixth  lunar  mansion,  called  Ardra, 
and  the  stag's  head  remains  in  the  fifth  mansion,  ]\Iriga-siras. 


278  SA  NDHYA-BALA—SANJNA. 

SAXDHYA-BALA.  '  Strong  in  twilight.'  Eakshasas  and 
other  demons,  supposed  to  "be  most  powerful  at  twilight. 

^S'AiVDILYA.  A  descendant  of  >S'a?i(7ila.  A  particular  sage 
who  was  connected  with  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad ;  one  who 
Avrote  a  book  of  Siitras,  one  who  wrote  upon  law,  and  one  who 
was  the  author  of  the  Bhagavata  heresy  :  two  or  more  of  these 
may  be  one  and  the  same  person.  The  Siitras  or  aphorisms 
have  been  pubHshed  in  the  B'lUiotheca  Indica. 

SANDlPANI.  A  master-at-arms  who  gave  instruction  to 
Bala-rama  and  K?*/sh?ia. 

SANDKACOTTUS.     See  Chandra-gupta. 

SA:N'GITA-EAT]S^AKARA.  a  work  on  singing,  dancing, 
and  pantomime,  written  by  /S'arngi  Deva. 

SANHITA.  That  portion  of  a  Yeda  which  comprises  the 
hymns.     See  Yeda. 

S ANHITOPANISHAD.  The  eighth  BrahmaTza  of  the  Sama- 
veda.  The  text  Avith  a  commentary  has  been  published  by 
Burnell. 

/S'ANL  The  planet  Saturn.  The  regent  of  that  planet,  re- 
presented as  a  black  man  in  black  garments.  /S'ani  was  a  son  of 
the  sun  and  Chhaya,  but  another  statement  is  that  he  was  the 
offspring  of  Bala-rama  and  Revati.  He  is  also  known  as  Ara, 
KoTia,  and  Ivroda  {cf.  Kooto^),  and  by  the  patronymic  iS'aura.  His 
influence  is  evil,  hence  he  is  called  Kriira-d^-is  and  Krura-lochana, 
'the  evil-eyed  one.'  He  is  also  Manda,  '  the  slow  ;'  Pangu,  '  the 
lame;'  Sanais-chara,  'slow-moving;'  Saptarchi,  'seven-rayed;' 
and  Asita,  '  the  dark.' 

SAN  JAY  A.  I.  The  charioteer  of  Dh?-/ta-rash/ra.  He  was 
minister  also,  and  went  as  ambassador  to  the  PiiTit^avas  before 
the  great  war  broke  out.  He  is  represented  as  reciting  to  Dh?ita- 
rash/ra  the  Bhagavad-gita.  His  patronymic  is  Gavalga?u,  son  of 
Gavalgawa.      2.  A  king  of  Ujjayini  and  father  of  Yasava-datta. 

SANJ]SrA.  'Conscience.'  According  to  the  Puriiwas,  she 
was  daughter  of  Yiswa-karma  and  wife  of  the  sun.  She 
had  three  children  by  him,  the  Manu  A^aivaswata,  Yama,  and 
Yami  (goddess  of  the  Yamuna  river).  "  Unable  to  endure  the 
fervours  of  her  lord,  Sanjnii  gave  liim  Chhaya  (shade)  as  his 
handmaid,  and  repaired  to  the  forests  to  practise  devout  exer- 
cises." The  sun  beheld  her  engaged  in  austerities  in  the  form 
of  a  mare,  and  he  approached  her  as  a  horse.     Hence  sprang  the 


SANKARA—SANKHA.  279 

two  Aswins  and  Revanta.  Surya  then  took  Sanjna  back  to  his 
own  dwelling,  but  his  effulgence  was  still  so  overpowering,  that 
her  father,  Viswa-karma,  placed  the  sun  upon  his  lathe,  and  cut 
away  an  eighth  part  of  his  brilliancy.  She  is  also  call  Dyu- 
mayi,  '  the  brilliant,'  and  Maha-virya,  '  the  very  powerful,' 

aS'ANKARA.  'Auspicious.'  A  name  of  ^iva  in  his  creative 
character  or  as  chief  of  the  Rudras. 

/6ANKARACHARYA  (iS^ankara  +  acharya).  The  great  reli- 
gious reformer  and  teacher  of  the  Vedanta  philosophy,  who  lived 
in  the  eighth  or  ninth  century.  He  was  a  native  of  Kerala  or 
Malabar,  and  lived  a  very  erratic  life,  disputing  with  heretics  and 
popularising  the  Vedanta  philosophy  by  his  preaching  and  vn?it- 
ings  wherever  he  went.  His  travels  extended  as  far  as  Kashmir, 
and  he  died  at  Kedaranath  in  the  Himalayas  at  the  early  age  of 
thirty-two.  His  learning  and  sanctity  were  held  in  such  high 
estimation  and  reverence,  that  he  was  looked  upon  as  an  incarna- 
tion of  /S'iva,  and  was  believed  to  have  the  power  of  working 
miracles.  The  god  ^iva  was  the  special  object  of  his  worship,  and 
he  was  the  founder  of  the  great  sect  of  Smartava  Brahmans,  who 
are  very  numerous  and  powerful  in  the  south.  He  established 
several  maths  or  monasteries  for  the  teaching  and  preservation 
of  his  doctrines.  Some  of  these  still  remain.  The  chief  one  is 
at  Srmga-giri  or  Sringiri,  on  the  edge  of  the  Western  Ghauts 
in  the  Mysore,  and  it  has  the  supreme  control  of  the  Smartava 
sect.  The  writings  attributed  to  him  are  very  numerous  ;  chief 
among  them  are  his  Bhashj^as  or  commentaries  on  the  Sutras  or 
aphorisms  of  Yyasa,  a  commentary  on  the  Bhagavad-gita,  some 
commentaries  on  the  Upanishads,  and  the  Ananda-lahari,  a 
hymn  in  praise  of  Parvati,  the  consort  of  iS'iva. 

iS'ANKARA-VIJAYA.  '  The  triumph  of  6'ankara.'  A  bio- 
graphy of  AS'ankaracharya  relating  his  controversies  with  here- 
tical sects  and  his  refutation  of  their  doctrines  and  superstitions. 
There  is  more  than  one  work  bearing  this  name  ;  one  by  Ananda 
Giri,  which  is  published  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica ;  another  by 
Madhavacharya ;  the  latter  is  distinguished  as  the  Sankshepa 
^Sankara-vijaya.  The  work  of  Ananda  Giri  has  been  critically 
examined  by  Kashinath  Trimbak  Telang  in  the  Indian  Anti- 
quary, voL  V. 

SANKARSHAVA.     A  name  of  Bala-rama. 

^S'ANKHA.     AYriter  of  a  Dharma-csastra  or  law-book  bearing 


28o  SANKHAYANA—SAPTA-SATL 

liis  name.  He  is  often  coupled  witli  Likhita,  and  the  two  seem 
to  have  worked  together. 

SAXKHAYAXA.  i.  Xame  of  a  writer  who  was  the  author 
of  the  Sankhayana  Brahma?ia  of  the  ^/g-veda,  and  of  certain 
/S^rauta-siitras  also  called  by  his  name.  2.  He  is  the  oldest 
known  writer  on  the  Ars  Erotica,  and  is  author  of  the  work 
called  Sankhayana  Kama-siitra. 

SAXKHYA.     A  school  of  philosophy.     Bee  Darsana. 

SAXKHYA-DARS'.yV^A.  Kapila's  aphorisms  on  the  San- 
khya  philosophy.     They  have  been  printed. 

SAXKHYA-KARIKA.  A  work  on  the  SSnkhya  philo- 
sophy, written  by  Iswara  Kr/sh/ia  j  translated  by  Colebrooke 
and  AVilson. 

SAXKHYA-PRAYACHAXA.  A  text-book  of  the  Sankhya 
philosophy,  said  to  have  been  written  by  Kapila  himself. 
Printed  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica. 

SAXKHYA-SARA.  A  work  on  the  Sankhya  philosophy  by 
Yijnana  Bhikshu.     Edited  by  Hall  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica. 

SAXXYASl.  A  Brahman  in  the  fourth  and  last  stage  of  his 
rehgious  life.  (See  Brahman.)  In  the  present  day  the  term  has 
a  wider  meaning,  and  is  applied  to  various  kinds  of  religious 
mendicants  who  wander  about  and  subsist  upon  alms,  most  of 
them  in  a  filthy  condition  and  with  very  scanty  clothing.  They 
are  generally  devotees  of  A^iva. 

SANTA.  Daughter  of  Da.sa-ratha,  son  of  Aja,  but  adopted 
by  Loma-pada  or  Roma-pada,  king  of  Anga.  She  was  married 
to  itishya-snnga. 

/S'AXTAXU.  A  king  of  the  Lunar  race,  son  of  Pratipa, 
father  of  Bhishma,  and  in  a  way  the  grandfather  of  Dhrita- 
rash^ra  and  Vsindu.  Regarding  him  it  is  said,  "  Every  decrepit 
man  whom  he  touclies  with  his  hands  becomes  young."  (See 
Maha-bharata. )  He  was  called  Satya-vach,  '  trutli-speaker,'  and 
was  remarkable  for  his  "devotion  and  charity,  modesty,  con- 
stancy, and  resolution." 

/SAXTI-aS'ATAKA.  a  century  of  verses  on  peace  of  mind. 
A  poem  of  repute  writen  by  iS'ri  /S'ililana. 

SAPTARSHI  (Sapta-7-islii).  The  seven  great  itishis.  See 
i?ishi. 

SAPTA--1SATT.  A  poem  of  700  verses  on  the  triumphs  of 
Durga.     It  is  also  called  Devl-mahatmya. 


SAPTA-SINDHAVA.  281 

SAPTA-SIXDHAYA.  'The  seven  rivers.'  The  term  fre- 
quently occurs  in  the  Yedas,  and  has  been  widely  known  and 
somewhat  differently  applied.  It  was  apparently  known  to  the 
Romans  in  the  days  of  Augustus,  for  Virgil  says — 

"  Ceu  septem-surgens  sedatis  amnibus  altus 
Per  tacitum  Ganges." — Eneid^  ix.  30. 

They  appear  iri  Zend  as  the  Hapta-heando,  and  the  early  Mu- 
hammadan  travellers  have  translated  the  term.  But  their  Saba' 
Sin,  'seven  rivers,'  according  to  Biriini,  applies  to  the  rivers  which 
flow  northwards  from  the  mountains  of  the  Hindu  Koh,  and 
"uniting  near  Turmuz,  form  the  river  of  Balkh  (the  Oxus)." 
The  hymn  in  which  the  names  of  the  rivers  have  been  given 
has  the  following  description  : — "  Each  set  of  seven  (streams) 
has  followed  a  threefold  course.  The  Sindhu  surpasses  the 
other  rivers  in  impetuosity.  .  .  .  Receive  favourably  this  my 
hymn,  0  Ganga,  Yamuna,  Saraswati,  /S'utudri,  Parushni;  hear, 
0  Marud-vridha,  with  the  Asikni  and  Yitasta,  and  thou,  Arjikiya, 
with  the  Sushoma.  Unite  first  in  thy  course  with  the  Trish/ama, 
the  Susartii,  the  Rasa,  and  the  Sweti ;  thou  meetest  with  the 
Gomati,  and  the  Krumu  w^ith  the  Kubha  and  the  Mehatnu." 
According  to  this,  the  "  seven  rivers  "  are — (i.)  Ganga  (Ganges)  ; 
(2.)  Yamuna  (Jumna);  (3.)  Saraswati  (Sarsuti) ;  (4.)  /S'utudri 
(Satlej) ;  (5.)  Parush?ii ;  (6.)  Marud-v?idha ;  (7.)  Arjikiya  (the 
Yipasa,  Hyphasis  Byas).  Wilson  says  "  the  Parushm  is  iden- 
tified with  the  IravatI "  (Hydraotes,  Ravi),  but  in  this  hymn  it 
is  the  Marud-v?idha  which  would  seem  to  be  the  Iravati,  because 
it  is  said  to  unite  with  the  Asikni  (Akesines,  Chandrabhaga,  Chi- 
nab)  and  the  Yitasta  (Hydaspes  or  Jhilam).  This  would  leave 
the  Parush?2i  unsettled.  The  other  names,  with  the  exception  of 
the  Gomati  (Giimti),  are  not  identified.  Sushoma  has  been 
said  to  be  the  Sindhu,  but  in  this  hymn  the  Sindhu  is  clearly 
distinct.  In  the  Maha-bharata  the  seven  rivers  are  named  in 
one  place  Yaswokasara,  I^alini,  Pavani,  Ganga,  Sita,  Sindhu, 
and  Jambii-nadi ;  and  in  another,  Ganga,  Yamuna,  Plakshaga, 
Rathastha,  Saryu  (Sarju),  Gomati,  and  Gandaki  (Gandak).  In 
the  Ramayawa  and  the  Pura?ias  the  seven  rivers  are  the  seven 
streams  into  which  the  Ganges  divided  after  falling  from  the 
brow  of  /Siva,  the  JSTalini,  Hladini,  and  Pavani  going  east,  the 
Chakshu,  Sita,  and  Sindliu  to  the  west,  while  the  Ganges  proper, 


282  SAPTA-  VADHRI—SARAME  YAS. 

the  Bhagiratlii,  flowed  to  the  south.  The  term  is  also  used 
for  the  seven  great  oceans  of  the  world,  and  for  the  country  of 
the  seven  rivers. 

SAPTA- YADHRI.  A  Yedic  i^ishi.  In  a  hymn  he  says, 
"  As  wins,  by  j^our  devices  sunder  the  wicker  work  for  the  libera- 
tion of  the  terrified,  imploring  itishi  Sapta-vadhri."  Concerning 
this  the  following  old  story  is  told.  Sapta-vadhri  had  seven 
brothers  who  determined  to  prevent  his  having  intercourse  with 
his  wife.  So  they  shut  him  up  every  night  in  a  large  basket, 
which  they  locked  and  sealed,  and  in  the  morning  they  let  him 
out.  He  prayed  to  the  Aswins,  who  enabled  him  to  get  out  of 
his  cage  during  the  night  and  to  return  to  it  at  daybreak. 

iSARABHA.  I.  A  fabulous  animal  represented  as  having 
eight  legs  and  as  dwelling  in  the  Himalayas.  It  is  called  also 
Utpadaka  and  Kunjararati.      2.   One  of  Rama's  monkey  alUes. 

aSARA-BHANGA.  a  hermit  visited  by  Rama  and  Sita  in 
the  Dawrfaka  forest.  AVhen  he  had  seen  Rama  he  declared  that 
his  desire  had  been  granted,  and  that  he  w^ould  depart  to  the 
highest  heaven.  He  prepared  a  fire  and  entered  it.  His  body 
was  consumed,  but  there  came  forth  from  the  fire  a  beautiful 
youth,  and  in  this  form  ^Sara-bhanga  departed  to  heaven. 

/SARADA-TILAKA.  i.  A  mystic  poem  by  Lakshmawa.  2. 
A  dramatic  monologue  by  ^S'ankara,  not  earlier  than  the  twelfth 
century.     3.  Name  of  a  Tantra. 

>S'ARAD^yAT.  A  Eh\\\  said  to  be  the  father  of  Kr/pa.  He 
is  also  called  Gautama.     See  K?7'pa. 

SARAMA.  I.  In  the  ii*/g-veda  the  dog  of  Indra  and  mother 
of  the  two  dogs  called,  after  their  mother,  Sarameyas,  who  each 
had  four  eyes,  and  were  the  watchdogs  of  Yama.  Sarama  is 
said  to  have  pursued  and  recovered  the  cows  stolen  by  the  Pa/zis, 
a  myth  which  has  been  supposed  to  mean  that  Sarama  is  the 
same  as  Ushas,  the  dawn,  and  that  the  cows  represent  the  rays 
of  the  sun  carried  away  by  night.  2.  The  wife  of  YibhishaTia, 
wdio  attended  upon  Sita,  and  showed  her  great  kindness  when 
she  was  in  captivity  with  Rava?ia.  3.  In  the  Bhagavata  Pura?ia, 
Sarama  is  one  of  the  daugliters  of  Daksha,  and  the  mother  of 
wild  animals. 

SARAMEYAS.  The  two  children  of  Sarama,  Indra's  watch- 
dog ;  they  were  the  watchdogs  of  Yama,  and  each  had  four  eyes. 
They  have  been  compared  with  the  Greek  Hermes. 


SARANVtr—SAJ^ASlVA  TA.  283 

SAEAiVYtJ.  'The  fleet  runner.'  A  daughter  of  Twashifn. 
She  has  been  identified  with  the  Greek  Erinnys.  The  begin- 
ning of  this  myth  is  in  a  hymn  of  the  itig-veda,  which  says — 
"  I.  Twash^n  makes  a  wedding  for  his  daughter.  (Hearing)  this, 
the  whole  world  assembles.  The  mother  of  Yama,  the  wedded 
wife  of  the  great  Vivaswat  (the  sun),  disappeared.  2.  They 
concealed  the  immortal  (bride)  from  mortals.  Making  (another) 
of  like  appearance,  they  gave  her  to  Vivaswat.  Sara^iyii  bore 
the  two  Aswins,  and  when  she  had  done  so  she  deserted  the  two 
twins."  In  the  IsTirukta  the  story  is  expanded  as  follows  : — 
"  Sara?^yu,  the  daughter  of  Twash^H,  bore  twins  to  Vivaswat, 
the  son  of  Aditi.  She  then  substituted  for  herself  another 
female  of  similar  appearance,  and  fled  in  the  form  of  a  mare. 
Vivaswat  in  like  manner  assumed  the  shape  of  a  horse  and 
followed  her.  From  their  intercourse  sprang  two  Aswins,  while 
Manu  was  the  offspring  of  Savar?ia  (or  the  female  of  like  appear- 
ance)." The  B?'ihad-devata  has  another  version  of  the  same 
story: — "Twash^?i  had  twin  children,  (a  daughter)  Sarawyii  and 
(a  son)  Tri-siras.  He  gave  Sara^^yu  in  marriage  to  Vivaswat,  to 
whom  she  bore  Yama  and  Yami,  who  also  were  twins.  Creat- 
ing a  female  like  herself  without  her  husband's  knowledge,  and 
making  the  twins  over  in  charge  to  her,  Sara?Z}ii  took  the  form 
of  a  mare  and  departed.  Vivaswat,  in  ignorance,  begot  on  the 
female  who  was  left  Manu,  a  royal  ^ishi,  who  resembled  his  father 
in  glory  ;  but  discovering  that  the  real  Sarawyu,  Twash/ri's 
daughter,  had  gone  away,  Vivaswat  followed  her  quickly,  taking 
the  shape  of  a  horse  of  the  same  species  as  she.  Recognising 
him  in  that  form,  she  approached  him  with  the  desire  of  sexual 
connection,  which  he  gratified.  In  their  haste  his  seed  fell  on 
the  ground,  and  she,  being  desirous  of  offspring,  smelled  it. 
From  this  act  sprang  the  two  Kumaras  (youths),  Xasatya  and 
Dasra,  who  were  lauded  as  Aswins  (sprung  from  a  horse)." — 
Muir's  Texts,  v.  227.     See  the  Pura?iic  version  under  "  Sanjna." 

SARASWATA.  i.  In  the  Maha-bharata  the  J?/shi  Saraswata 
is  represented  as  being  the  son  of  the  personified  river  SaraswatT. 
In  a  time  of  great  drought  he  was  fed  with  fish  by  his  mother, 
and  so  was  enabled  to  keep  up  his  knowledge  of  the  Vedas, 
while  other  Brahmans  were  reduced  to  such  straits  for  the  means 
of  subsistence  that  study  was  neglected  and  the  Vedas  were 
lost.     When  the  drought  was   over,  the  Brahmans  flocked  to 


284  SARASWATI. 

him  for  instruction,  and  60,000  acquired  a  knowledge  of  the 
Vedas  from  him.  "  This  legend,"  says  Wilson,  "  appears  to 
indicate  the  revival,  or,  more  probably,  the  introduction  of  the 
Hindu  ritual  by  the  race  of  Brahmans,  or  the  people  called 
Saras wata,"  who  dwelt  near  the  Saraswati  river.  Saraswata 
Brahmans  still  dwell  in  the  Panjab,  and  are  met  with  in  many 
other  parts.  2.  The  country  about  the  Saraswati  river.  3.  A 
great  national  division  of  the  Brahman  caste. 

SAEASAVATl.  '"Watery,  elegant.'  In  the  Vedas,  Saras- 
wati is  primarily  a  river,  but  is  celebrated  in  the  hymns  both  as 
a  river  and  a  deity.  The  Saraswati  river  was  one  boundary  of 
Brahmavartta,  the  home  of  the  early  Aryans,  and  was  to  them, 
in  all  likelihood,  a  sacred  river,  as  the  Ganges  has  long  been  to 
their  descendants.  As  a  river  goddess,  Saraswati  is  lauded  for 
the  fertilising  and  purifying  powers  of  her  waters,  and  as  the 
bestower  of  fertility,  fatness,  and  wealth.  Her  position  as  Vach, 
the  goddess  of  speech,  finds  no  mention  in  the  J?ig-veda,  but  is 
recognised  by  the  BrahmaTias  and  the  Maha-bharata.  Dr.  Muir 
endeavours  to  account  for  her  acquisition  of  this  character.  He 
say,  "  Allien  once  the  river  had  acquired  a  divine  character,  it 
was  quite  natural  that  she  should  be  regarded  as  the  patroness 
of  the  ceremonies  which  were  celebrated  on  the  margin  of  her 
holy  waters,  and  that  her  direction  and  blessing  should  be  in- 
voked as  essential  to  their  proper  performance  and  success. 
The  connection  into  which  she  was  thus  brouglit  wuth  sacred 
rites  may  have  led  to  the  further  step  of  imagining  her  to  have 
an  influence  on  the  composition  of  the  hymns  which  formed  so 
important  a  part  of  the  proceedings,  and  of  identifying  her  with 
Vach,  the  goddess  of  speech."  In  later  times  Saraswati  is  the 
wife  of  Brahma,  the  goddess  of  speech  and  learning,  inventress 
of  the  Sansk?7't  language  and  Deva-nagari  letters,  and  patroness 
of  the  arts  and  sciences.  "  She  is  represented  as  of  a  white 
colour,  without  any  superfluity  of  limbs,  and  not  unfrequently 
of  a  graceful  figure,  wearing  a  slender  crescent  on  her  brow  and 
sitting  on  a  lotus." —  Wilson.  The  same  authority  states  that  "  the 
VaishTiavas  of  Bengal  have  a  popular  legend  that  she  was  the  wife 
of  Vishmi,  as  were  also  Lakshmi  and  Ganga.  The  ladies  dis- 
agreed ;  Saraswati,  like  the  otlier  prototype  of  learned  ladies, 
IMinerva,  being  something  of  a  termagant,  and  Vish?m  finding 
that  one  wife  was  as  much  as  he  could  manage,  transferred 


SARAS  W A  TI—SA  TA-DHAKU.  285 

Saraswati  to  Brahma  and  Ganga  to  /S'iva,  and  contented  liimself 
with  Lakshmi  alone.  [See  Vach.)  Other  names  of  Saraswati 
are  Bharatl,  Brahml,  Piit-kari,  ^Sarada,  Vagiswari.  The  river  is 
now  called  Sarsuti.  It  falls  from  the  Himfdayas  and  is  lost  in 
the  sands  of  the  desert.  In  ancient  times  it  flowed  on  to  the  sea. 
A  passage  in  the  i?/g-veda  says  of  it,  "  She  who  goes  on  pure 
from  the  mountains  as  far  as  the  sea." — Max  Muller,  Veda,  45. 
According  to  the  Maha-bharata  it  was  dried  up  by  the  curse  of 
the  sage  Utathya  (q.v.).     See  Sapta-sindhava. 

SAKASWATI  KAiVmABHARAA^A.  A  treatise  on  poeti- 
cal and  rhetorical  composition  generally  ascribed  to  Bhoja  Raja. 

SARAYU.     The  Sarju  river  or  Gogra. 

SARMISHTHA.  Daughter  of  Y?-ishaparvan  the  Danava, 
second  wife  of  Yayati  and  mother  of  Purii.     See  Devayanl. 

>S'ARXGA.     The  bow  of  Knsh?za. 

SARYA,  /S'ARVA.  A  Vedic  deity ;  the  destroyer.  After- 
wards a  name  of  ^iva  and  of  one  of  the  Rudras.     See  Rudra. 

SARYA-DAR^AATA  SANGRAHA.  A  work  by  Madhava- 
charya  which  gives  an  account  of  the  DarsaT^as  or  schools  of 
philosophy,  whether  orthodox  or  heretical.     It  has  been  printed. 

^SARVARl.  A  woman  of  low  caste,  who  was  very  devout 
and  looked  for  the  coming  of  Rama  until  she  had  grown  old. 
In  reward  of  her  piety  a  sage  raised  her  from  her  low  caste,  and 
when  she  had  seen  Rama  she  burnt  herself  on  a  funeral  pile. 
She  ascended  from  the  pile  in  a  chariot  to  the  heaven  of 
Vish?m. 

SARYA-SARA.     I^ame  of  an  Upanishad. 

aS'A/S'ADA.      'Hare-eater.'    A  name  given  to  Yikukshi  (q.v.). 

aS'A^I,  aS'A/S'IN.  The  moon,  so  called  from  the  marks  on  the 
moon  being  considered  to  resemble  a  hare  (sasa). 

ySASTRA.  'A  rule,  book,  treatise.'  Any  book  of  divme  or 
recognised  authority,  but  more  especially  the  law-books. 

/SATA-DHAjSTU.  a  king  who  had  a  virtuous  and  discreet 
wife  named  iS'aibya.  They  were  both  worshippers  of  Yislmu. 
One  day  they  met  a  heretic,  with  whom  ^S^ata-dhanu  conversed ; 
but  the  wife  "  turned  away  from  him  and  cast  her  eyes  up  to 
the  sun."  After  a  time  ^ata-dhanu  died  and  his  wife  ascended 
his  funeral  pile.  The  wife  was  born  again  as  a  princess  with  a 
knowledge  of  her  previous  existence,  but  the  husband  received 
the  form  of  a  dog.     She  recognised  him  in  this  form  and  placed 


286  SA  TA-DHANWAN—SA  TA-RUPA. 

the  bridal  garland  on  his  neck.  Then  she  reminded  him  of  his 
previous  existence  and  of  the  fault  wliich  had  caused  his  degra- 
dation. He  was  greatly  humiliated  and  died  from  a  broken 
sj^irit.  After  that,  he  was  born  successively  as  a  jackal,  a  wolf, 
a  crow,  and  a  peacock.  In  each  form  his  wife  recognised  him, 
reminded  liim  of  his  sin,  and  urged  him  to  make  efforts  for 
restoration  to  his  former  dignity.  At  length  "  he  was  born  as 
the  son  of  a  person  of  distinction,"  and  >S'aibya  then  elected  him 
as  her  bridegroom ;  and  having  "  again  invested  him  with  the 
character  of  her  husband,  they  lived  happily  together."  "WHien 
he  died  she  again  followed  him  in  death,  and  both  "  ascended 
beyond  the  sphere  of  Indra  to  the  regions  where  all  desires  are 
for  ever  gratified."  "This  legend,"  says  Wilson,  "is  peculiar 
to  the  Yish?2-u  PurfiTia,  although  the  doctrine  it  inculcates  is  to 
be  found  elsewhere. 

^ATA-DHAXWAX,  .SATA-DHAXUS.  '  Having  a  hundred 
bows.'  A  Yadava  and  son  of  Hridika.  He  killed  Satrajit, 
father  of  Satya-bhama,  the  wife  of  Ivn'sh?ia,  in  his  sleep,  and 
was  himself  killed  in  revenge  by  K?7'sh??a,  who  struck  off  his 
head  with  his  discus. 

^ATA-DKU.  'Flowing  in  a  hundred  (channels).'  The 
name  of  the  river  Sutlej,  the  Zaradrus  of  Ptolemy,  the  Hesudrus 
of  Pliny. 

aSATA-GHNI.  '  Slaying  hundreds.'  A  missile  weapon  used 
by  Krishna.  It  is  described  in  the  Maha-bharata  as  a  stone 
set  round  with  iron  spikes,  but  many  have  supposed  it  to  be 
a  rocket  or  other  fiery  weapon. 

6^ATA-KEATU.     '  The  god  of  a  hundred  rites ; '  Indra. 

/SATAPATHA-BRAHMAYA.  A  celebrated  Brahmarza  at- 
tached to  the  White  Yajur-veda,  and  ascribed  to  the  i?ishi 
Yajnawalkya.  It  is  found  in  two  Sakhas,  the  Madhyandina 
and  the  Kamva.  This  is  the  most  complete  and  systematic  as 
weU  as  the  most  important  of  all  the  Brahma/^as.  It  has  been 
edited  by  Weber. 

^ATA-RUPA.  'The  hundred-formed.'  The  first  woman. 
According  to  one  account  she  was  the  daughter  of  Brahma,  and 
from  their  incestuous  intercourse  the  first  Manu,  named  Swayam- 
bhuva,  was  born.  Another  account  makes  her  the  wife,  not 
the  mother,  of  IManu.  The  account  given  by  Manu  is  that 
Brahma  divided  himself  into  two  parts,  male  and  female,  and 


SAtATAPA—SATYAKI.  287 

from  tliem  sprang  Manu.  She  is  also  called  Savitrl.  See  Yiraj 
and  Brahma. 

aS'ATATAPA.     An  old  writer  on  law. 

iS'ATA-VAHAISrA.  A  name  by  which  iS'ali-vahana  is  some- 
times called. 

SATI.  A  daughter  of  Daksha  and  wife  of  Kudra,  i.e.,  Siva,. 
The  Vishmi  Piirawa  states  that  she  "  abandoned  her  body  in 
consequence  of  the  anger  of  Daksha.  She  then  became  the 
daughter  of  Himavat  and  Mena;  and  the  divine  Bhava  again 
married  Uma,  who  was  identical  with  his  (AS'iva's)  former 
spouse."  The  authorities  generally  agree  that  she  died  or  killed 
herself  in  consequence  of  the  quarrel  between  her  husband  and 
father ;  and  the  Kasi  lQ.ia7ich,  a  modern  work,  represents  that 
she  entered  the  fire  and  became  a  Sati.     See  Pi/ha-sthana. 

SATRAJIT,  SATRAJITA.  Son  of  Nighna.  In  return  for 
praise  rendered  to  the  sun  he  beheld  the  luminary  in  his  projDer 
form,  and  received  from  him  the  wonderful  Syamantaka  gem. 
He  lost  the  gem,  but  it  was  recovered  and  restored  to  him 
by  IvWsh?za.  In  return  he  presented  'Krishna,  with  his  daughter 
Satya-bhama  to  wife.  There  had  been  many  suitors  for  this 
lady's  hand,  and  one  of  them,  named  /S'ata-dhanwan,  in  revenge 
for  her  loss,  killed  Satrajit  and  carried  off  the  gem,  but  he  was 
afterwards  kiUed  by  'Krishna. 

/SATRU-GHXA.  'Foe  destroyer.'  Twin-brother  of  Laksh- 
ma?za  and  half-brother  of  Rama,  in  whom  an  eighth  part  of 
the  divinity  of  Yishwu  was  incarnate.  His  wife  was  ^Sruta-kirti, 
cousin  of  Sita.  He  fought  on  the  side  of  Rama  and  killed  the 
Rakshasa  chief  Lavawa.     See  Dasa-ratha  and  Rama. 

SATYA-BHAMA.  Daughter  of  Satrajita  and  one  of  the 
four  chief  wives  of  Krishna.  She  had  ten  sons,  Blianu,  Su- 
bhanu,  Swar-bhanu,  Prabhanu,  Bhanumat,  Chandrabhanu,  Bri- 
hadbhanu,  Atibhanu,  ^S'ribhanu,  and  Pratibhanu.  Krishna,  took 
her  with  him  to  Indra's  heaven,  and  she  induced  him  to  bring 
away  the  Parijata  tree. 

SATYA-DHii/TI.  Son  of  >S'aradwat  and  grandson  of  the 
sage  Gautama.  According  to  the  Yish7;u  Pura^za  he  was  father 
by  the  nymph  Urvasi  of  Kriipa,  and  Kr/pi. 

SATYAIvI.  A  kinsman  of  Knsh?ia's,  who  fought  on  the 
side  of  the  Pa?zf/avas,  and  was  K?-zsh?ia's  charioteer.  He  assassi- 
nated K?ita-varma  in  a  drinking  bout  at  Dwaraka,  and  was  him- 


288  SA  TVA-LOKA—SA  TYA-VRA  TA. 

self  cut  down  by  the  friends  of  his  victim.  He  is  also  called 
Daruka  and  Yuyiidhana ;  and  ^aineya  from  his  father,  ^S^ini. 

SATYA-LOKA.     See'Lok^i. 

SATYAVAX.     See  Savitrl. 

SATYA-VATL  i.  Daughter  of  Uparichara,  king  of  Chedi,  by 
an  Apsaras  named  Adrika,  who  was  condemned  to  hve  on  earth 
in  the  form  of  a  fish.  She  was  mother  of  Vyasa  by  the  i^zshi 
Para,sara,  and  she  was  also  wife  of  King  /S'antanu,  mother  of 
Yichitra-virya  and  Chitrangada,  and  grandmother  of  the  Kaur- 
avas  and  Pawt^avas,  the  rivals  in  the  great  war.  The  sage 
Parasara  met  her  as  she  was  crossing  the  river  Yamuna  when 
she  was  quite  a  girl,  and  the  offspring  of  their  illicit  intercourse 
was  brought  forth  on  an  island  (dwipa)  in  that  river,  and  was 
hence  called  Dwaipayana.  (See  Vyasa.)  She  was  also  called 
Gandha-kah,  Gandha-vati,  and  Kalangani;  and  as  her  mother 
lived  in  the  form  of  a  fish,  she  is  called  Dasa-nandini,  Diiseyi, 
Jhajhodari,  and  j\Iatsyodari,  'fish-born.'  2.  A  daughter  of  King 
Gadlii,  wife  of  the  Brahman  i?ichika,  mother  of  Jamad-agni  and 
grandmother  of  Parasu-rama.  She  was  of  the  Kusika  race,  and 
is  said  to  have  been  transformed  into  the  Kausiki  river.  See 
ifcichika  and  Yiswamitra. 

SATYA-YRATA.  i.  Xame  of  the  seventh  Manu.  See 
Manu. 

2.  A  king  of  the  Solar  race,  descended  from  Ikshwaku.  He 
was  father  of  Haris-chandra,  and  is  also  named  Yedlias  and  Tri- 
sanku.  According  to  the  Ramayawa  he  was  a  pious  king,  and 
was  desirous  of  performing  a  sacrifice  in  virtue  of  which  he 
might  ascend  bodily  to  heaven.  Yasish^ha,  his  priest,  declined 
to  perform  it,  declaring  it  impossible.  He  then  applied  to 
Yasish/ha's  sons,  and  they  condemned  him  to  become  a  Clia?ic?ala 
for  his  presumption.  In  his  distress  and  degradation  lie  applied 
to  Yiswamitra,  who  promised  to  raise  him  in  that  form  to 
heaven.  Yiswamitra's  intended  sacrifice  was  strongly  resisted 
by  the  sons  of  Yasish/ha,  but  he  reduced  them  to  ashes,  and 
condemned  them  to  be  born  again  as  outcasts  for  seven  hundred 
births.  The  wrathful  sage  bore  down  all  other  opposition,  and 
Tri-5anku  ascended  to  heaven.  Here  his  entry  was  opposed  by 
Indra  and  the  gods,  but  Yiswamitra  in  a  fury  declared  that  he 
would  create  "  another  Indra,  or  the  world  should  have  no  Indra 
at  all."     The  gods  were  obliged  to  yield,  and  it  was  agreed  that 


SA  TYA-VRA  TA—SA  UBHARI.  289 

Tri-<?ankii,  an  immortal,  slioiild  hang  with  his  head  downwards, 
and  shine  among  some  stars  newly  called  into  being  by  Viswa- 
mitra. 

The  VisliTiu  Pura/za  gives  a  more  simple  version.  While 
Satya-vrata  was  a  Cha?i<:?ala,  and  the  famine  was  raging,  he  suj:*- 
ported  Yiswamitra's  family  by  hanging  deer's  Jflesh  on  a  tree  on 
the  bank  of  the  Ganges,  so  that  they  might  obtain  food  without 
the  degradation  of  receiving  it  from  a  ChawtZala  :  for  this  charity 
Yiswamitra  raised  him  to  heaven. 

The  story  is  differently  told  in  the  Hari-vansa.  Satya-vrata 
or  Tri-sankn,  when  a  prince,  attempted  to  carry  off  the  wife  of  a 
citizen,  in  consequence  of  which  his  father  drove  him  from  home, 
nor  did  Yasish/ha,  the  family  priest,  endeavour  to  soften  the 
father's  decision.  The  period  of  his  exile  was  a  time  of  famine, 
and  he  greatly  succoured  the  wife  and  family  of  Yiswamitra, 
who  were  in  deep  distress  while  the.  sage  was  absent  far  away. 
He  completed  his  twelve  years'  exile  and  penance,  and  being 
hungry  one  day,  and  having  no  flesh  to  eat,  he  killed  Yasish^ha's 
wondrous  cow,  the  Kama-dhenu,  and  ate  thereof  himself,  and 
gave  some  to  the  sons  of  Yiswamitra.  In  his  rage  Yasish/ha 
gave  him  the  name  Tri-5anku,  as  being  guilty  of  three  great 
sins.  Yiswamitra  was  gratified  by  the  assistance  which  Satya- 
vrata  had  rendered  to  his  family ;  "  he  installed  him  in  liis 
father's  kingdom,  .  .  .  and,  in  spite  of  the  resistance  of  the 
gods  and  of  Yasish/ha,  exalted  the  king  alive  to  heaven." 

^'ATYAYANA.     I^ame  of  a  Brahma?za. 

SATYA-YAUYAXA.     A  certain  Yidya-dhara. 

SAUBHA.  A  magical  city,  apparently  first  mentioned  in 
the  Yajur-veda.  An  aerial  city  belonging  to  Haris-chandra,  and 
according  to  popular  belief  still  visible  occasionally.  It  is 
called  also  Kha-pura,  Prati-margaka,  and  Tranga.  In  the 
Maha-bharata  an  aerial  or  self-supporting  city  belonging  to  the 
Daityas,  on  the  shore  of  the  ocean,  protected  by  the  >Salwa 
king. 

SAUBHAPI.  A  devout  sage,  who,  when  he  was  old  and 
emaciated,  was  inspired  with  a  desire  of  offspring.  He  went 
to  King  Mandhat?"i,  and  demanded  one  of  his  fifty  daughters. 
Afraid  to  refuse,  and  yet  unwilling  to  bestow  a  daughter  upon 
such  a  suitor,  the  king  temporised,  and  endeavoured  to  evade 
the  request.     It  was  at  length  settled  that,  if  any  one  of  the 

T 


290  SAUDASA—SAVARNA. 

daugliters  should  accept  liiiii  as  a  bridegroom,  the  king  wouhi 
consent  to  the  marriage.  Saubhari  was  conducted  to  the  pre- 
sence of  the  girls  ;  but  on  his  way  he  assumed  a  fair  and  hand- 
some form,  so  that  all  the  girls  were  captivated,  and  contended 
with  each  other  as  to  who  should  become  his  wife.  It  ended 
by  his  marrying  them  all  and  taking  them  home.  He  caused 
Viswa-karma  to  build  for  each  a  separate  palace,  furnished  in  the 
most  luxurious  manner,  and  surrounded  with  exquisite  gardens, 
where  they  lived  a  most  happy  life,  each  one  of  them  having  her 
husband  always  present  with  her,  and  believing  that  he  was 
devoted  to  her  and  her  only.  By  his  wives  he  had  a  hundred 
and  fifty  sons ;  but  as  he  found  his  hopes  and  desires  for  them 
to  daily  increase  and  expand,  he  resolved  to  devote  himself 
wholly  and  solely  to  penance  and  the  worship  of  Vish7iu. 
Accordingly,  he  abandoned  his  cliildren  and  retired  with  his 
wives  to  the  forest.     See  Yish7m  Pura/^a. 

SAUDASA.  Son  of  King  Sudas.  Their  descendants  are 
all  Saudasas.     See  Kalmasha-pada. 

SAU]SrA]S'DA.  A  club  shaped  like  a  pestle,  which  was  one 
of  the  weapons  of  Bala-rama. 

/S'AU]!!^AKA.  A  sage,  the  son  of  /S'unaka  and  grandson  of 
Gritsa-mada.  He  was  the  author  of  the  B?'ihad-devata,  an  Anu- 
krama^ii,  and  other  works,  and  he  w^as  a  teacher  of  the  Atharva- 
veda.  His  pupil  was  Aswalayana.  There  was  a  family  of  the 
name,  and  the  works  attributed  to  ^S'aunaka  are  probably  the 
productions  of  more  than  one  j)erson. 

SAUKA  PURAA^A.     See  Pura^za. 

SAURASHrRAS.     The  people  of  SurSshfra. 

SAUTI.  ]^ame  of  the  sage  who  repeated  the  Maha-bharata 
to  the  itfshis  in  the  Naimisha  forest. 

SAUVlRAS.  A  people  connected  with  the  Saindhavas  or 
people  of  Sindh,  and  probably  inhabitants  of  the  western  and 
southern  parts  of  the  Panjab.  Cunningham  says  that  Sauvira 
was  the  plain  country. 

SAYARA^A,  SAVARA^I.  The  eighth  T^Ianu.  The  name  is 
used  either  alone  or  in  combination  for  all  the  succeeding  Manus 
to  the  fourteenth  and  last.     See  Manu. 

SAVARYA.  AVife  of  the  sun.  "  The  female  of  like  appear- 
ance," whom  Saranyu,  wife  of  Yivaswat,  substituted  for  herself 
when  she  fled.     (See    Sarawyu.)     Manu  was   the  offspring  of 


SAVITRI—SESHA.  291 

SavarTia.  This  is  the  version  given  in  the  Nirukta.  In  the 
Yish?m  Pura?ia,  Savarwa  is  daughter  of  the  ocean,  wife  of 
Prachinabarhis,  and  mother  of  the  ten  Prachetasas. 

SAVITit/.  '  Generator.'  i.  A  name  used  in  the  Yedas  for 
the  sun.  Many  hymns  are  addressed  to  him,  and  he  is  some- 
times distinguished  from  that  deity.     2.  One  of  the  Adityas. 

SAYITRI.  I.  The  holy  verse  of  the  Veda,  commonly  called 
Gayatri.  2.  A  name  of  iS'ata-riipa,  the  daughter  and  wife  of 
Brahma,  who  is  sometimes  regarded  as  a  personification  of  the 
holy  verse.  3.  Daughter  of  King  Aswa-pati,  and  lover  of  Sat- 
yavan,  whom  she  insisted  on  marrying,  although  she  was  warned 
by  a  seer  that  he  had  only  one  year  to  live.  When  the  fatal 
day  arrived,  Satyavan  went  out  to  cut  wood,  and  she  followed 
him.  There  he  fell,  dying,  to  the  earth,  and  she,  as  she  sup- 
ported him,  saw  a  figure,  who  told  her  that  he  was  Yama,  king 
of  the  dead,  and  that  he  had  come  for  her  husband's  spirit. 
Yama  carried  off  the  spirit  towards  the  shades,  but  Savitri 
followed  him.  Her  devotion  pleased  Yama,  and  he  off'ered  her 
any  boon  except  the  life  of  her  husband.  She  extorted  three 
such  boons  from  Yama,  but  still  she  followed  him,  and  he  was 
finally  constrained  to  restore  her  husband  to  life. 

SAYYA-SACHIK  '  A^aio  puUs  a  bow  with  either  hand.' 
A  title  of  Arjuna. 

SAYAYA.  Sa5"a7iacharya,  the  celebrated  commentator  on 
the  ^/g-veda.  "  He  was  brother  of  Madhavacharya,  the  prime 
minister  of  Yira  Bukka  Raya,  Raja  of  Yijaya-nagara,  in  the 
fourteenth  century,  a  munificent  patron  of  Hindu  literature. 
Both  the  brothers  are  celebrated  as  scholars,  and  many  important 
works  are  attributed  to  them ;  not  only  scholia  on  the  Sanhitas 
and  Brahma7?as  of  the  Yedas,  but  original  works  on  grammar 
and  law ;  the  fact,  no  doubt,  being  that  they  availed  themselves 
.of  those  means  which  their  situation  and  influence  secured  them, 
and  employed  the  most  learned  Brahmans  they  could  attract  to 
Yijaya-nagara  upon  the  works  which  bear  their  name,  and  to 
which  they  also  contributed  their  own  labour  and  learning ; 
their  works  were,  therefore,  compiled  under  peculiar  advantages, 
and  are  deservedly  held  in  the  highest  estimation." — Wilson. 

aS'ESHA,  ^ESHA-NAGA.  King  of  the  serpent  race  or  Nagas, 
and  of  the  infernal  regions  called  Patala.  A  serpent  with  a 
thousand  heads  which  is  the  couch  and  canopy  of  Yishwu  whilst 


292       SETU-BANDHA—SIDDHANTA-SIROMANL 

sleeping  during  the  intervals  of  creation.  Sometimes  *Seslia  is 
represented  as  supporting  the  world,  and  sometimes  as  upholding 
the  seven  Patalas  or  hells.  Whenever  he  yawns  he  causes  earth- 
quakes. At  the  end  of  each  kalpa  he  vomits  venomous  fire 
which  destroys  all  creation.  AYhen  the  gods  churned  the  ocean 
they  made  use  of  >S'esha  as  a  great  roj)e,  which  they  twisted  round 
the  mountain  Mandara,  and  so  used  it  as  a  churn.  He  is  repre- 
sented clothed  in  purple  and  wearing  a  white  necklace,  holding 
in  one  hand  a  plough  and  in  the  other  a  pestle.  He  is  also 
called  Ananta,  '  the  endless,'  as  the  symbol  of  eternity.  His 
wife  was  named  Ananta-sirsha.  He  is  sometimes  distinct  from 
Yasuki  but  generally  identified  with  him.  In  the  Pura?ias  he 
is  said  to  be  the  son  of  Kasyapa  and  Kadru,  and  according  to 
some  authorities  he  was  incarnate  in  Bala-rama.  His  hood  is 
called  MaTii-dwipa,  '  the  island  of  jewels,'  and  his  j)alace  Ma?2i- 
bliitti,  'jewel-walled,'  or  Mam-maTic/apa,  'jewel  palace.' 

SETU-BANDHA.  '  Rama's  bridge.'  The  Hne  of  rocks  be- 
tween the  continent  and  Ceylon  called  in  maps  "Adam's  bridge." 
It  is  also  know  as  Samudraru.  There  is  a  poem  called  Setu- 
bandha  or  Setu-kavya  on  the  subject  of  the  building  of  the 
bridge  by  Rama's  allies. 

SHAD-DAR^S'ANA.     See  Darsana. 

SHAD-YIX^S'A.  '  Twenty-sixth.'  One  of  the  Brrdimawas  of 
the  Sama-veda.  It  is  called  "  the  twenty-sixth "  because  it 
was  added  to  the  Prauc^ha  Brahma?za,  which  has  twenty-five 
sections. 

SHAT-PURA.  '  The  sixfold  city,'  or  '  the  six  cities '  granted 
by  Brahma  to  the  Asuras,  and  of  which  Nikumbha  was  king. 
It  was  taken  by  Krislma  and  given  to  Brahma-datta,  a  Brahman. 
— Hari-vansa.        * 

SIDDHAS.     A  class  of  semi-divine  beings  of  great  purity 
and  holiness,  who  dwell  in  the  regions  of  the  sky  between  the. 
earth  and  the  sun.     They  are  said  to  be  88,000  in  number. 

SIDDHANTA.  Any  scientific  work  on  astronomy  or  mathe- 
matics. 

SIDDHANTA  KAUMUDl.  A  modern  and  simplified  form 
of  Pacini's  Grammar  by  Bha//oji  Dikshita.     It  is  in  print. 

SIDUHAKTA-^IROMAiYI.  A  work  on  astronomy  by 
Bhaskarachiirya.  It  has  been  printed,  and  has  been  translated 
for  the  Bibliotheca  Indlca. 


SIKHANDIN—SISUMARA.  293 

^'IKHAiVDIX,  ;S'IKHAJ\^i)INL  Si\\2.ncVm\  is  said  to  have 
been  the  daughter  of  Kaja  Drupada,  but  according  to  another  state- 
ment she  was  one  of  the  two  wives  whom  Bhishma  obtained  for 
his  brother  Vichitra-virya.  "  She  (the  widow)  perished  in  the  jun- 
gle, but  before  her  death  she  had  been  assured  by  Parasu-rama  that 
she  should  become  a  man  in  a  future  birth,  and  cause  the  death  of 
Bhishma,  who  had  been  the  author  of  her  misfortunes."  Accord- 
ingly she  was  born  again  as  AS'ikha7Z6?in,  son  of  Drupada.  Bhishma 
fell  in  battle  pierced  all  over  by  the  arrows  of  Arjuna,  but  ac- 
cording to  this  story  the  fatal  shaft  came  from  the  hands  of 
/Sikhayzc^in.     Bee  Amba. 

aSIKSHA.  Phonetics  ;  one  of  the  Vedangas.  The  science 
which  teaches  the  proper  jDronunciation  and  manner  of  reciting 
the  Vedas.     There  are  many  treatises  on  this  subject. 

aSILPA-aSASTEA.  The  science  of  mechanics  ;  it  includes 
architecture.     Any  book  or  treatise  on  this  science. 

SINDHU.  I.  The  river  Indus  ;  also  the  country  along  that 
river  and  the  people  dwelling  in  it.  Prom  Sindhu  came  the 
Hind  of  the  Arabs,  the  Hiiidoi  or  Indoi  of  the  Greeks,  and 
our  India.  2.  A  river  in  Malwa.  There  are  others  of  the 
name.      See  Sapta-sindhava. 

SI^^HALA,  SINHALA-DWIPA.     Ceylon. 

SINHASANA  DWATKKsTaS'AT.  The  thirty-two  stories 
told  by  the  images  which  supported  the  throne  of  King  Vikra- 
maditya.  It  is  the  Singhasan  Battisi  in  Hindustani,  and  is 
current  in  most  of  the  languages  of  India. 

SINHIKA.  I.  A  daughter  of  Daksha  and  wife  of  Ivasyapa; 
also  a  daughter  of  Ivasyapa  and  wife  of  Viprachitti.  2.  A  Rak- 
shasi  who  tried  to  swallow  Hanuman  and  make  a  meal  of  him. 
He  allowed  her  to  do  so  and  then  rent  her  body  to  pieces  and 
departed.  Her  habit  was  to  seize  the  shadow  of  the  object  she 
wished  to  devour  and  so  drag  the  prey  into  her  jaws. 

aS'IPRA.     The  river  on  which  the  city  of  XJjjayini  stands. 

SIRA-DHWAJA.  '  He  of  the  plough-banner.'  An  epithet 
for  Janaka. 

^SI/S'UMARA.  'A porpoise.'  The  planetary  sphere,  which,  as 
explained  by  the  Yishwu  PuraTza,  has  the  shape  of  a  porpoise, 
Yish7zu  being  seated  in  its  heart,  and  Dhruva  or  the  pole  star  in 
its  tail.  "  As  Dhruva  revolves,  it  causes  the  sun,  moon,  and 
other  planets  to  turn  round  also  ;  and  the  lunar  asterisms  follow 


294  STSU-PALA—SJTA. 

in  its  circular  path,  for  all  tlie  celestial  luminaries  are,  in  fact, 
bound  to  the  polar  star  by  aerial  cords." 

6'IaS'U-PALA.  Son  of  Dama-ghosha,  king  of  Chedi,  by  S'nita- 
deva,  sister  of  Vasu-deva ;  he  was  therefore  cousin  of  Krishwa, 
but  he  was  K?i'shwa's  implacable  foe,  because  lO'ishwa  had  car- 
ried off  Rukmi7zi,  his  intended  wife.  He  was  slain  by  Kn'shTza 
at  the  great  sacrifice  of  Yudlii-sh^hira  in  punishment  of  oppro- 
brious abuse.  The  Maha-bharata  states  that  /S'i5u-pala  was  born 
with  three  eyes  and  four  arms.  His  parents  were  inclined  to 
cast  him  out,  but  were  warned  by  a  voice  not  to  do  so,  as  his 
time  was  not  come.  It  also  foretold  that  his  superfluous  mem- 
bers should  disappear  when  a  certain  person  took  the  child  into 
his  lap,  and  that  he  would  eventually  die  by  the  hands  of  that 
same  person.  KrisliTza  placed  the  child  on  his  knees  and  the 
extra  eye  and  arms  disappeared ;  K?'/sh72a  also  killed  him.  The 
YishTiu  Purawa  contributes  an  additional  legend  about  him. 
"  /S'i^u-pala  was  in  a  former  existence  the  unrighteous  but  valiant 
monarch  of  the  Daityas,  Hirawya-kasipu,  who  was  killed  by  the 
divine  guardian  of  creation  (in  the  man-lion  Avatara).  He  was 
next  the  ten-headed  (sovereign  E-avaTza),  whose  unequalled 
prowess,  strength,  and  power  were  overcome  by  the  lord  of  the 
three  worlds  (Rama).  Having  been  killed  by  the  deity  in  the 
form  of  Raghava,  he  had  long  enjoyed  the  reward  of  his  virtues 
in  exemption  from  an  embodied  state,  but  had  now  received 
birth  once  more  as  /Sisu-pala,  the  son  of  Dama-ghosha,  king  of 
Chedi.  In  this  character  he  renewed  -with  greater  inveteracy 
than  ever  his  hostile  hatred  towards  Pu?ic?arlkaksha  (Yish/iu), 
.  .  .  and  was  in  consequence  slain  by  him.  But  from  the  cir- 
cumstance of  his  thoughts  being  constantly  engrossed  by  the 
supreme  being,  ASisu-pala  was  united  with  him  after  death,  .  .  . 
for  the  lord  bestows  a  heavenly  and  exalted  station  even  upon 
those  whom  he  slays  in  his  displeasure."  He  was  caUed  S\x- 
nltha,  '  virtuous.' 

iST^'UPALA-BADHA.  '  The  death  of  Si5u-pala ; '  an  epic  poem 
by  Magha,  in  twenty  cantos.  It  has  been  often  printed,  and  has 
been  translated  into  French  by  Fauche. 

SIT  A.  'A  furrow.'  In  the  Yeda,  Sita  is  the  furrow,  or  hus- 
bandry personified,  and  worshipped  as  a  deity  presiding  over 
agriculture  and  fruits.  In  the  Ramaya?ia  and  later  works  she  is 
daughter  of  Janaka  king  of  Yideha,  and  wife  of  Rama.     The 


SITA.  295 

old  Vedic  idea  still  adhered  to  her,  for  she  sprang  from  a  furrow. 
In  the  Eamayarza  her  father  Janaka  says,  "  As  I  was  ploughing 
my  field,  there  sprang  from  the  plough  a  girl,  obtained  by  me 
while  cleansing  my  field,  and  known  by  name  as  Sita  (the  fur- 
row). This  girl  sprung  from  the  earth  grew  up  as  my  daughter. " 
Hence  she  is  styled  Ayonija,  'not  born  from  the  womb.'  She 
is  said  to  have  lived  before  in  the  K?7ta  age  as  VedavatI,  and  to 
be  in  reality  the  goddess  Lakshmi  in  human  form,  born  in  the 
world  for  bringing  about  the  destruction  of  Rava7?a,  the  Rak- 
shasa  king  of  Lanka,  who  was  invulnerable  to  ordinary  means, 
but  doomed  to  die  on  account  of  a  woman.  Sita  became  the 
wife  of  Eama,  who  won  her  by  bending  the  great  bow  of  /Siva. 
She  was  his  only  wife,  and  was  the  embodiment  of  purity,  ten- 
derness, and  conjugal  affection.  She  accompanied  her  husband 
in  his  exile,  but  was  carried  off  from  him  by  Ravawa  and  kept 
in  his  palace  at  Lanka.  There  he  made  many  efforts  to  win  her 
to  his  will,  but  she  continued  firm  against  all  jDersuasions,  threats, 
and  terrors,  and  maintained  a  dignified  serenity  throughout. 
'When  Rama  had  slain  the  ravisher  and  recovered  his  wife,  he 
received  her  coldly,  and  refused  to  take  her  back,  for  it  was  hard 
to  believe  it  possible  that  she  had  retained  her  honour.  She 
asserted  her  purity  in  touching  language,  and  resolved  to  estab- 
lish it  by  the  ordeal  of  fire.  The  pile  was  raised  and  she  entered 
the  flames  in  the  presence  of  gods  and  men,  but  she  remained 
unhurt,  and  the  god  of  fire  brought  her  forth  and  placed  her  in 
her  husband's  arms.  JN^otwithstanding  this  proof  of  her  inno- 
cence, jealous  thoughts  passed  through  the  mind  of  Rama,  and 
after  he  had  ascended  his  ancestral  throne  at  Ayodhya,  his  people 
blamed  him  for  taking  back  a  wife  who  had  been  in  the  power 
of  a  licentious  ravisher.  So,  although  she  was  pregnant,  he 
banished  her  and  sent  her  to  the  hermitage  of  Yalmiki,  where 
she  gave  birth  to  twin  sons,  Kusa  and  Lava.  There  she  lived 
till  the  boys  were  about  fifteen  years  old.  One  day  they  strayed 
to  their  father's  capital.  He  recognised  and  acknowledged  them 
and  then  recalled  Sita.  She  returned  and  pubHcl}^  declared  her 
innocence.  But  her  heart  was  deeply  wounded.  She  called 
upon  her  mother  earth  to  attest  her  purity,  and  it  did  so.  The 
ground  opened,  and  she  was  taken  back  into  the  source  from 
which  she  had  sprung.  Rama  was  now  disconsolate  and  resolved 
to  quit  this  mortal  life,     i^ee  Rama.)    Sita  had  the  appellations 


296  SIVA. 

of  Bhunii-ja,  Dliaram-suta,  and  Parthivl,  all  meaning  '  daugliter 
of  the  eartli.' 

aS^IVA.  The  name  Siva  is  unknown  to  the  Yedas,  but 
Rudra,  another  name  of  this  deity,  and  almost  equally  common, 
occurs  in  the  Yeda  both  in  the  singular  and  plural,  and  from 
these  the  great  deity  Siva  and  his  manifestations,  the  Rudras, 
have  been  developed.  In  the  i^ig-veda  the  word  Rudra  is  used 
for  Agni,  and  the  Maruts  are  called  his  sons.  In  other  passages 
he  is  distinct  from  Agni.  He  is  lauded  as  "  the  lord  of  songs, 
the  lord  of  sacrifices,  who  heals  remedies,  is  brilliant  as  the  sun, 
the  best  and  most  bountiful  of  gods,  who  grants  prosj^erity  and 
welfare  to  horses  and  sheep,  men,  women,  and  cows ;  the  lord 
of  nourishment,  who  drives  away  diseases,  dispenses  remedies, 
and  removes  sin ;  but,  on  the  other  hand  he  is  the  wielder  of 
the  thunderbolt,  the  bearer  of  bow  and  arrows,  and  mounted  on 
his  chariot  is  terrible  as  a  wild  beast,  destructive  and  fierce." 
In  the  Yajur-veda  there  is  a  long  prayer  called  ASatarudriya  which 
is  addressed  to  him  and  appeals  to  him  under  a  great  variety  of 
epithets.  He  is  "  auspicious,  not  terrible  ;  "  "  the  deliverer,  the 
first  divine  physician  ;  "  he  is  "  blue-necked  and  red-coloured, 
who  has  a  thousand  eyes  and  bears  a  thousand  quivers  ; "  and  in 
another  hymn  he  is  called  "  Tryambaka,  the  sweet-scented  in- 
creaser  of  prosperity  ;  "  "a medicine  for  kine  and  horses,  a  medi- 
cine for  men,  and  a  (source  of)  ease  to  rams  and  ewes."  In  the 
Atharva-veda  he  is  still  the  protector  of  cattle,  but  his  character 
is  fiercer.  He  is  "  dark,  black,  destroying,  terrible."  He  is  the 
"  fierce  god,"  who  is  besought  to  betake  himself  elsewhere,  "and 
not  to  assail  mankind  with  consumption,  poison,  or  celestial  fire." 
The  Brahmawas  tell  that  when  Rudra  was  born  he  Avept,  and  his 
father,  Prajapati,  asked  the  reason,  and  on  being  told  that  he 
wept  because  he  had  not  received  a  name,  his  father  gave  liim 
the  name  of  Rudra  (from  the  root  rud,  'weep').  They  also  relate 
that  at  the  request  of  the  gods  he  pierced  Prajapati  because  of  his 
incestuous  intercourse  with  his  daughter.  In  another  place  he  is 
said  to  have  applied  to  his  father  eight  successive  times  for  a  name, 
and  that  he  received  in  succession  the  names  Bhava,  Sarva,  Pasu- 
pati,  Ugradeva,  Mahandeva,  Rudra,  Isana,  and  Asani.  In  the 
IJpanishads  his  character  is  further  developed.  He  declares  to  the 
inquiring  gods,  "  I  alone  was  before  (all  things),  and  I  exist  and 
I  shall  be.     No  other  transcends  me.     I  am  eternal  and  not 


SIVA.  297 

eternal,  discernible  and  imdiscernible,  I  am  Brahma  and  I  am 
not  Bralima."  Again  it  is  said,  "He  is  the  only  Rudra,  he  is 
Isana,  he  is  divine,  he  is  Mahe-swara,  he  is  Mahadeva."  "  There 
is  only  one  Rudra,  there  is  no  place  for  a  second.  He  rules 
this  fourth  world,  controlling  and  productive  ;  living  beings 
abide  with  him,  united  with  him.  At  the  time  of  the  end  he 
annihilates  all  worlds,  the  protector."  "  He  is  without  begin- 
ning, middle,  or  end ;  the  one,  the  pervading,  the  spiritual  and 
blessed,  the  wonderful,  the  consort  of  Uma,  the  supreme  lord, 
the  three-eyed,  the  blue-throated,  the  tranquil.  .  .  .  He  is 
Brahma,  he  is  /S'iva,  he  is  Indra ;  he  is  undecaying,  supreme,  self- 
resplendent  ;  he  is  Yislmu,  he  is  breath,  he  is  the  spirit,  the 
supreme  lord  ;  he  is  all  that  hath  been  or  that  shall  be,  eternal. 
Knowing  him,  a  man  overpasses  death.  There  is  no  other  way 
to  liberation."  In  the  RamayaT^a  /S'iva  is  a  great  god,  but  the 
references  to  him  have  more  of  the  idea  of  a  personal  god  than 
of  a  supreme  divinity.  He  is  represented  as  fighting  with 
Vish?zu,  and  as  receiving  worship  with  Brahma,  Vislimi,  and 
Indra,  but  he  acknowledges  the  divinity  of  Rama,  and  holds  a 
less  exalted  position  than  Yishmi.  The  Maha-bharata  also  gives 
Yishmi  or  ILrishna.  the  highest  honour  upon  the  whole.  But  it 
has  many  passages  in  which  ^S'iva  occujDies  the  supreme  place, 
and  receives  the  homage  and  worship  of  Yishmi  and  Ivrishna. 
"  Maha-deva,"  it  says,  "  is  an  all-pervading  god  yet  is  nowhere 
seen ;  he  is  the  creator  and  the  lord  of  Brahma,  Yish?2,u,  and 
Indra,  wdiom  the  gods,  from  Brahma  to  the  Pisachas,  worship." 
The  rival  claims  of  /S'iva  and  YisliTiu  to  supremacy  are  clearly 
displayed  in  this  poem  ;  and  many  of  those  powers  and  attributes 
are  ascribed  to  them  which  were  afterwards  so  widely  developed 
in  the  Purawas.  Attempts  also  are  made  to  reconcile  their  con- 
flicting claims  by  representing  Siva  and  Yish72-u,  Siva,  and 
K?*ish7?a,  to  be  one,  or,  as  it  is  expressed  at  a  later  time  in  the 
Hari-vansa,  there  is  "  no  difference  between  Siva  who  exists  in 
the  form  of  Yish?m,  and  Yishmi  who  exists  in  the  form  of  /S'iva." 

The  PuraTzas  distinctly  assert  the  supremacy  of  their  particular 
divinity,  whether  it  be  /S'iva  or  whether  it  be  Yishmi,  and  they 
have  developed  and  amplified  the  myths  and  allusions  of  the 
older  writings  into  numberless  legends  and  stories  for  the  glori- 
fication and  honour  of  their  favourite  god. 

The  Rudra  of  the  Yedas  has  develojDed  in  the  course  of  ages 


298  SIVA. 

into  the  great  and  powerful  god  ^iva,  the  tliird  deity  of  the 
Hindu  triad,  and  the  supreme  god  of  his  votaries.     He  is  shortly 
described  as  the  destroying  principle,  but  his  powers  and  attri- 
butes are  more  numerous  and  much  wider.     Under  the  name  of 
Rudi-a  or  Maha-kala,  he  is  the  great  destroying  and   dissolving 
power.     But  destruction  in  Hindu  belief  implies  reproduction  ; 
so  as  Siva,  or  iSankara,  '  the  auspicious,'  he  is  the  reproductive 
power  which  is  perpetually  restoring  that  which  has  been  dis- 
solved, and  hence  he  is  regarded  as  Iswara,  the  supreme  lord,  and 
Maha-deva,  the  great  god.     Under  this  character  of  restorer  he 
is  represented  by  his  symbol  the  Linga  or  phallus,  typical  of  re- 
production ;  and  it  is  under  this  form  alone,  or  combined  with 
the  Yoni,  or  female  organ,  the  representative  of  his  ^S'akti,  or 
female  energy,  that  he  is  everywhere  worshipped.     Thirdly,  he 
is  the  Maha-yogl,   the  great   ascetic,   in  whom  is  centred  the 
highest  perfection  of  austere  penance  and  abstract  meditation,  by 
which  the  most  unlimited  powers  are  attained,    marvels  and 
miracles  are  worked,  the  highest  spiritual  knowledge  is  acquired, 
and  union  with  the  great   spirit  of  the  universe  is  eventually 
gained.     In  this  character  he  is  the  naked  ascetic  Dig-ambara, 
'  clothed  with  the  elements,'  or  Dlmr-ja^i,  '  loaded  with  matted 
hair,'  and  his  bodv  smeared  with  ashes.     His  first  or  destructive 
character  is  sometimes  intensified,  and  he  becomes  Ehairava,  'the 
terrible  destroyer,'  who  takes  a  pleasure  in  destruction.     He  is 
also  Bhiiteswara,  the  lord  of  ghosts  and  goblins.     In  these  char- 
acters he  haunts  cemeteries  and  places  of  cremation,  wearing 
serpents  round  his  head  and  skulls  for  a  necklace,  attended  by 
troops  of  imps  and  trampling  on  rebellious  demons.     He  some- 
times indulges  in  revelry,  and,  heated  with  drink,  dances  furiously 
with  his  wife  Devi  the  dance  called  Tawt^ava,  while  troops  of 
drunken  imps  caper  around  them.     Possessed  of  so  many  powers 
and  attributes,  he  has  a  great  number  of  names,  and  is  represented 
under  a  variety  of  forms.     One  authority  enumerates  a  thousand 
and  eight  names,  but  most  of  these  are  descriptive  epithets,  as 
Tri-lochana,   '  the  three-eyed,'  Nila-kantha,   '  the  blue-throated,' 
and  Panch-anana,  'the  five-faced.'     S'lYSi  is  a  fair  man  with  five 
faces  and  four  arms.     He  is  commonly  represented  seated  in 
profound  thought,  with  a  third  eye  in  the  middle  of  his  fore- 
head, contained  in  or  surmounted  by  the  moon's  crescent ;  his 
matted  locks  are  gathered  up  into  a  coil  like  a  horn,  which  bears 


S/VA.  299 

upon  it  a  symbol  of  the  river  Ganges,  wliich  he  caught  as  it  fell 
from  heaven  ;  a  necklace  of  skulls  (mu?i6?a-mala),  hangs  round  his 
neck,  and  serpents  twine  ahout  his  neck  as  a  collar  (naga-ku?i^ala); 
his  neck  is  blue  from  drinking  the  deadly  poison  which  would 
have  destroyed  the  world,  and  in  his  hand  he  holds  a  tri.siila  or 
trident  called  Pinaka.  His  garment  is  the  skin  of  a  tiger,  a  deer, 
or  an  elephant,  hence  he  is  called  Kntti-vasas ;  sometimes  he  is 
clothed  in  a  skin  and  seated  upon  a  tiger-skin,  and  he  holds  a  deer 
in  his  hand.  He  is  generally  accompanied  by  his  bull  JSTandi.  He 
also  carries  the  bow  Ajagava,  a  drum  (tkmaru)  in  the  shape  of 
an  hour-glass,  the  Kha/wanga  or  club  with  a  skull  at  the  end,  or 
a  cord  (pasa)  for  binding  refractory  offenders.  His  Pramathas 
or  attendants  are  numerous,  and  are  imps  and  demons  of  various 
kinds.  His  third  eye  has  been  very  destructive.  With  it  he 
reduced  to  ashes  Kama,  the  god  of  love,  for  daring  to  inspire 
amorous  thoughts  of  his  consort  Parvati  while  he  was  engaged 
in  penance ;  and  the  gods  and  all  created  beings  were  destroyed 
by  its  glance  at  one  of  the  periodical  destructions  of  the  universe. 
He  is  represented  to  have  cut  off  one  of  the  heads  of  Brahma 
for  speaking  disrespectfully,  so  that  Brahma  has  only  four  heads 
instead  of  five.  /S'iva  is  the  great  object  of  worship  at  Benares 
under  the  name  of  Visweswara.  His  heaven  is  on  Mount 
Kailasa. 

There  are  various  legends  respecting  /S'iva's  garments  and 
weapons.  It  is  said  that  "  he  once  visited  a  forest  in  the  form 
of  a  religious  mendicant,  and  the  wives  of  the  itishis  residing 
there  fell  in  love  with  his  great  beauty,  which  the  Bishis,  per- 
ceiving, resented  ;  in  order,  therefore,  to  overpower  him,  they 
first  dug  a  pit,  and  by  magical  arts  caused  a  tiger  to  rush  out  of 
it,  which  he  slew,  and  taking  his  skin  wore  it  as  a  garment ; 
they  next  caused  a  deer  to  spring  out  upon  him,  which  he  took 
up  in  his  left  hand  and  ever  after  retained  there.  They  then 
produced  a  red-hot  iron,  but  this  too  he  took  up  and  kept  in 
his  hand  as  a  weapon.  .  .  .  The  elephant's  skin  belonged  to  an 
Asura  named  Gaya,  w^ho  acquired  such  power  that  he  would 
have  conquered  the  gods,  and  would  have  destroyed  the  Munis 
had  they  not  fled  to  Benares  and  taken  refuge  in  a  temple  of 
/S'iva,  who  then  destroyed  the  Asura,  and,  ripping  up  his  body, 
stripped  off  the  (elephant)  hide,  which  he  cast  over  his  shoulders 
for  a  cloak." — Williams. 


300  SIVA  PURANA—SKANDA  PURANA. 

Other  names  or  epithets  of  ;S'iva  are  Aghora,  'horrihle;' 
Babhrii,  Bhagavat,  'divine;'  Chandra-sekhara,  'moon-crested;' 
Ganga-dhara,  'bearer  of  the  Ganges;'  GirLsa,  ' mountain  lord  ; ' 
Hara,  'seizer;'  Isana,  'ruler;'  Ja/a-dhara,  'wearing  matted 
hair;'  Jala-murtti,  'whose  form  is  water;'  Kala,  'time;'  Kalan- 
jara  ;  Kapala-malin,  'wearing  a  garland  of  skulls;'  Maha-kala, 
'great  time;'  Maliesa,  'great  lord;'  M?7tyunjaya,  'vanquisher 
of  death;'  Pa5u-pati,  'lord  of  animals;'  iS'ankara,  /Sarva, 
Sada^iva  or  /S'ambhu,  'the  auspicious;'  /Sthanu,  'the  firm;' 
Tryambaka,  'three-eyed;'  Ugra,  'fierce;'  Yiriipaksha,  'of  mis- 
formed  eyes  ;'  Yiswanatha,  'lord  of  alL' 

SlXk.  PURA^^A.     See  Purana. 

aSTYL  Son  of  Usinara,  and  king  of  the  country  also  called 
Usinara,  near  Gandhara,  The  great  charity  and  devotion  of 
;S'ivi  are  extolled  in  the  INIaha-bharata  by  the  sage  ]\Iarka?2Jeya. 
Agni  having  assumed  the  form  of  a  pigeon,  was  pursued  by  Indra 
in  the  shape  of  a  falcon.  The  pigeon  took  refuge  in  the  bosom 
of  iS'ivi,  and  the  falcon  would  accept  nothing  from  SW\  instead 
of  the  pigeon  but  an  equal  weight  of  the  king's  own  flesh.  ^S'ivi 
cut  a  piece  of  flesh  from  his  right  thigh  and  placed  it  in  the 
balance,  but  the  bird  was  the  heavier.  He  cut  again  and  again, 
and  still  the  pigeon  drew  the  scale,  until  the  king  placed  his 
whole  body  in  the  balance.  This  outweighed  the  pigeon  and 
the  falcon  flew  away.  On  another  occasion  Yish?iu  went  to 
/S'ivi  in  the  form  of  a  Brahman  and  demanded  food,  but  would 
accept  no  food  but  ^S'i^ni's  own  son  Yi'ihad-garbha,  whom  he 
required  >S'ivi  to  kill  and  cook.  The  king  did  so,  and  placed 
the  food  before  the  Brahman,  who  then  told  him  to  eat  it  him- 
self. /S'ivi  took  up  the  head  and  prepared  to  eat.  The  Brahman 
then  stayed  his  hand,  commended  his  devotion,  and  restoring 
the  son  to  life,  vanished  from  sight. 

SKAMBHA.  '  The  supporter.'  A  name  sometimes  used  in 
the  i?ig-veda  to  designate  the  Supreme  Deity.  There  is  con- 
siderable doubt  and  mystery  about  both  this  name  and  deit}'. 
"The  meaning  of  the  term,"  says  Goldstiicker,  "is  'the  fulcrum,' 
and  it  seems  to  mean  the  fulcrum  of  the  whole  world  in  all  its 
physical,  religious,  and  other  aspects." — Mu'ifs  TextSy  v.  378. 

SKANDA.     God  of  war.     See  Kilrttikeya. 

SKANDA  PURAA^A.  "  The  Skanda  Purfma  is  that  in  which 
the .  six-faced   deity    (Skanda)  has   related   the   events   of  the 


SMARTA—SOMA.  301 

Tatpurusha  Kalpa,  enlarged  with  many  tales,  and  subservient  to 
the  duties  taught  by  Maheswara.  It  is  said  to  contain  81,800 
stanzas  :  so  it  is  asserted  amongst  mankind."  "It  is  uniformly 
agreed,"  says  Wilson,  "  that  the  Skanda  Purawa,  in  a  collective 
form,  has  no  existence;  and  the  fragments,  in  the  shape  of 
Sanhitas,  Kha?Z6?as,  and  Mahatmyas,  which  are  affirmed  in 
various  parts  of  India  to  be  portions  of  the  Purawa,  present  a 
much  more  formidable  mass  of  stanzas  than  even  the  immense 
number  of  which  it  is  said  to  consist.  The  most  celebrated  of 
these  portions  in  Hindusthan  is  the  KasI  Khaw?a,  a  very  minute 
description  of  the  temples  of  /Siva  in  or  adjacent  to  Benares, 
mixed  with  directions  for  worshipping  Maheswara,  and  a  great 
variety  of  legends  explanatory  of  its  merits  and  of  the  holiness 
of  Kasi.  Many  of  them  are  puerile  and  uninteresting,  but 
some  of  them  are  of  a  higher  character.  There  is  every  reason 
to  believe  the  greater  part  of  the  contents  of  the  Kasl  Kha/if/a 
anterior  to  the  first  attack  upon  Benares  by  Mahmiid  of  Ghazni. 
The  Ka5i  Kha?2C?a  alone  contains  15,000  stanzas.  Another  con- 
siderable work  is  the  Utkala  Khawtia,  giving  an  account  of  the 
holiness  of  Orissa."  A  part  of  this  Pura72a  has  been  printed  at 
Bombay. 

SMARTA  Appertaining  to  the  Smriti.  The  Smarta-siitras. 
See  Siitras. 

SMJ?/TI.  '  What  was  remembered.'  Inspiration,  as  dis- 
tinguished from  /S'ruti,  or  direct  revelation.  What  has  been 
remembered  and  handed  down  by  tradition.  In  its  widest 
application,  the  term  includes  the  Yedangas,  the  Siitras,  the 
I^amaya??a,  the  Maha-bharata,  the  Purawas,  the  Dharma-sastras, 
especially  the  works  of  Manu,  Yajnawalkya,  and  other  inspired 
lawgivers,  and  the  ISTiti-sastras  or  ethics,  but  its  ordinary  applica- 
tion is  to  the  Dharma-sastras;  as  Manu  says,  "  By  ^ruti  is  meant 
the  Veda,  and  by  Sm/'iti  the  institutes  of  law,"  ii.  10. 

SMii'/TI-CHANDRIKA.  A  treatise  on  law,  according  to 
the  Dravi(:^ian  or  Southern  school,  by  Devana  Bha/^/a. 

SOMA.  The  juice  of  a  milky  climbing  plant  (Asdepias  acida), 
extracted  and  fermented,  forming  a  beverage  offered  in  libations 
to  the  deities,  and  drunk  by  the  Brahmans.  Its  exhilarating 
qualities  were  grateful  to  the  priests,  and  the  gods  were  repre- 
sented as  being  equally  fond  of  it.  This  soma  juice  occupies 
a  large  space  in  the  ii/g-veda ;  one  Ma^i^ala  is  almost  wholly 


302  SOMA. 

devoted  to  its  praise  and  uses.  It  was  raised  to  the  position  of  a 
deity,  and  represented  to  be  primeval,  all-powerful,  healing  all 
diseases,  bestower  of  riches,  lord  of  other  gods,  and  even  iden- 
tified with  the  Supreme  Being.  As  a  personification,  Soma  was 
the  god  who  represented  and  animated  the  soma  juice,  an  Indian 
Dionysus  or  Bacchus. 

"  The  simple-minded  Arian  people,  whose  whole  religion  was 
a  worship  of  the  wonderful  powers  and  phenomena  of  nature, 
had  no  sooner  perceived  that  this  liquid  had  power  to  elevate 
the  spirits  and  produce  a  temporary  frenzy,  under  the  influence 
of  which  the  individual  was  prompted  to,  and  capable  of,  deeds 
beyond  his  natural  powers,  than  they  found  in  it  something 
divine  :  it  was  to  their  apprehension  a  god,  endowing  those  into 
whom  it  entered  with  godlike  powers ;  the  plant  which  afforded 
it  became  to  them  the  king  of  plants ;  the  process  of  preparing 
it  was  a  holy  sacrifice ;  the  instruments  used  therefor  were 
sacred.  The  high  antiquity  of  this  cultus  is  attested  by  the 
references  to  it  found  occurring  in  the  Persian  Avesta ;  it  seems, 
however,  to  have  received  a  new  impulse  on  Indian  territory." — 
JFhitriey. 

In  later  times,  the  name  was  appropriated  to  the  moon,  and 
some  of  the  qualities  of  the  soma  juice  have  been  transferred  to 
the  luminary,  who  is  Oshadhi-pati,  or  lord  of  herbs.  So  Soma 
is  considered  the  guardian  of  sacrifices  and  penance,  asterisms 
and  healing  herbs. 

In  the  Puramc  mythology  Soma,  as  the  moon,  is  commonly 
said  to  be  the  son  of  the  Eishi  Atri  by  his  wife  Anasiiya, 
but  the  authorities  are  not  agreed.  One  makes  him  son  of 
Dharma ;  another  gives  his  paternity  to  Prabhakara,  of  the  race 
of  Atri ;  and  he  is  also  said  to  have  been  f)i'oduced  from  the 
churning  of  the  ocean  in  another  IManwantara.  In  the  Yish7iu 
Pura?ia  he  is  called  "  the  monarch  of  Brahmans ; "  but  the 
Brihad  Ara^iyaka,  an  older  work,  makes  him  a  Kshatriya.  He 
married  twenty-seven  daughters  of  the  Bishi  Daksha,  who  are 
really  personifications  of  the  twenty-seven  lunar  asterisms ;  but 
keeping  up  the  personality,  he  paid  such  attention  to  Rohi??i,  the 
fourth  of  them,  that  the  rest  became  jealous,  and  ajipealed  to 
their  father.  Daksha's  interference  was  fruitless,  and  he  cursed 
his  son-in-law,  so  that  he  remained  childless,  and  became  affected 
with  consumption.     This  moved  the  pity  of  his  wives,  and  they 


SOMA—SOMAPAS.  303 

interceded  with  tlieir  father  for  him.  He  could  not  recall  his 
curse,  but  he  modified  it  so  that  the  decay  should  be  periodical, 
not  permanent.  Hence  the  wane  and  increase  of  the  moon. 
He  performed  the  Raja-suya  sacrifice,  and  became  in  consequence 
so  arrogant  and  licentious  that  he  carried  off  Tara,  the  wife  of 
Brihaspati,  and  refused  to  give  her  up  either  on  the  entreaties 
of  her  husband  or  at  the  command  of  Brahma.  This  gave  rise 
to  a  wide-spread  quarrel.  The  sage  Usanas,  out  of  enmity  to 
Bi'ihaspati,  sided  with  Soma,  and  he  was  supported  by  the 
Danavas,  the  Daityas,  and  other  foes  of  the  gods.  Indra  and 
the  gods  in  general  sided  with  Brihaspati.  There  ensued  a 
fierce  contest,  and  "  the  earth  was  shaken  to  her  centre."  Soma 
had  his  body  cut  in  two  by  diva's  trident,  and  hence  he  is  called 
Bhagnatma.  At  length  Brahma  interposed  and  stopped  the 
fight,  compelling  Soma  to  restore  Taril  to  her  husband.  The 
result  of  this  intrigue  was  the  birth  of  a  child,  whom  Tara, 
after  great  persuasion,  declared  to  be  the  son  of  Soma,  and  to 
whom  the  name  of  Budha  was  given  :  from  him  the  Lunar  race 
sprung. 

According  to  the  PuraTias,  the  chariot  of  Soma  has  three 
wheels,  and  is  drawn  by  ten  horses  of  the  whiteness  of  the  jas- 
mine, five  on  the  right  half  of  the  yoke,  and  five  on  the  left. 

The  moon  has  many  names  and  descriptive  epithets,,  as 
Chandra,  Indu,  >S'asi,  'marked  like  a  hare;'  ISTi^akara,  'maker 
of  night;'  Xakshatra-natha,  'lord  of  the  constellations;'  iS^ita- 
marichi,  '  having  cool  rays  ;'  Sitansu,  '  having  white  rays  ;'  Mri- 
ganka,  '  marked  like  a  deer;'  /Siva-sekhara,  'the  crest  of  iS'iva; ' 
Kumuda-pati,  '  lord  of  the  lotus  ; '  /S'weta-vajT,  '  drawn  by  white 
horses.' 

SO]MADEYA  BHATJA.  The  writer  or  compiler  of  the 
collection  of  stories  called  Katha-sarit-sagara. 

SOMAKA.  Grandfather  of  Drupada,  who  transmitted  his 
name  to  his  descendants. 

SO]\IA-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

SOJMA-NATHA,  SOMEaS^^ARA.  '  Lord  of  the  moon.'  The 
name  of  a  celebrated  Lingam  or  emblem  of  ^Siva  at  the  city  of 
Somnath-pattan  in  Gujarat.  It  was  destroyed  by  Mahmiid  of 
Ghazni. 

SOMAPAS.  '  Soma-drinkers.'  A  class  of  Pitris  or  Manes 
who  drink  the  soma  juice.     See  Pit?'is. 


304  SOMA-  VANSA—SRI-SAILA. 

SOMA-YAN/SA.     See  Cliandra-vansa. 

/S^ADDHA.  I,  Faith,  personified  in  the  Yedas  and  lauded 
in  a  few  hymns.  2.  Daughter  of  the  sage  Daksha,  wife  of  the 
god  Dharma,  and  reputed  mother  of  Kama-deva,  the  god  of 
love, 

^RADDHA-DEVA,  .S'RADDHA-DEVA.  JNIanu  is  called 
by  the  former  name  in  the  Brahma?ias,  and  hy  the  latter  in  the 
Maha-bharata.     The  latter  is  commonly  applied  to  Yama. 

/S'RAUTA.     Belonging  to  the  Siwti.     See  ^S'ruti  and  Sutra. 

^'RAUTA-StJTRA.     See  Sutra  and  Yedangas. 

aS'RAYASTI.  An  ancient  city  which  seems  to  have  stood 
near  Faizabad  in  Oude. 

aS'RI.  '  Fortune,  prosperity.'  i.  The  wife  of  Yish?zu.  (See 
Lakshmi.)  2.  An  honorific  prefix  to  the  names  of  gods,  kings, 
heroes,  and  men  and  books  of  high  estimation. 

.S'RI  BHAGAYATA.     See  Bhagavata  PuraTza.  , 

>S'Rl  DAMA  CHARITRA.  A  modern  drama  in  five  acts  by 
Sama  Raja  Dikshita,  on  the  sudden  elevation  to  alSuence  of  Sri 
Daman,  a  friend  of  Kr/shwa.  It  is  not  a  good  play,  "  but  there 
is  some  vivacity  in  the  thoughts  and  much  melody  in  the  style." 
— J'Filson. 

aS'RI-DHARA  SWAMI.  Author  of  several  commentaries  of 
repute  on  the  Bhagavad-gita,  Yish?iu  Pura?za,  &c. 

/SRI  HARSHA.  A  great  sceptical  philosoj^her,  and  author 
of  the  poem  called  JSTaishadha  or  iSTaishadhiya.  There  were 
several  kings  of  the  name. 

.S'RI  HARSHA  DEYA.  A  king  who  was  author  of  the 
drama  RatnavalT. 

/S'i^/XGA-GIRI.  A  hill  on  the  edge  of  the  AYestern  Ghats 
in  Mysore,  where  there  is  a  math  or  monastic  establishment  of 
Brahmans,  said  to  have  been  founded  by  /S'ankaracharya. 

SEI^GARA  TILAKA.  'The  mark  of  love.'  A  work  by 
Rudra  Bha^/a  on  the  sentiments  and  emotions  of  lovers  as  exhi- 
bited in  poetry  and  the  drama. 

aS^/NGA-YERA.  The  modern  Sungroor,  a  town  on  the 
left  bank  of  the  Ganges  and  on  the  frontier  of  Kosala  and  the 
Bhil  country.  The  country  around  was  inhabited  by  Nishiidas 
or  wild  tribes,  and  Guha,  the  friend  of  Rama,  was  their  chief. 

>SRI-aSAILA.  The  mountain  of  *S'rI,  the  goddess  of  fortune. 
It  is  a  holy  place  in  the  Dakliin,  near  the  K?-ishwa,  and  was 


SRI-  VA  TSA—SU-BHANU.  305 

formerly  a  place  of  great  splendour.     It  retains  its  sanctity  but 
has  lost  its  grandeur.     Also  called  /Sri-parvata. 

/SRI-VATSA.  A  particular  mark,  said  to  be  a  curl  of  hair 
on  the  breast  of  Yishwu  or  Knsh?za,  and  represented  by  ^^ 

aSRUTA-BODHA.  a  work  on  metres  attributed  to  Kali-dasa. 
It  has  been  edited  and  translated  into  French  by  Lancereau. 

^RUTA-KIRTTI     Cousin  of  Sita  and  wife  of  ^'atru-ghna. 

^RUTAESHL  A  i^^'shi  who  did  not  receive  the  /Sruti 
(revelation)  direct,  but  obtained  it  at  second-hand  from  the 
Yedic  i^ishis. 

^SRUTI.  '^Vliat  was  heard.'  The  revealed  word.  The 
Mantras  and  Erahma?zas  of  the  Vedas  are  always  included  in 
the  term,  and  the  Upanishads  are  generally  classed  with  them. 

STHALl  -  DEYATAS,  DEYATAS.  Gods  or  goddesses  of 
the  soil,  local  deities. 

STHANU.     A  name  of  ^iva. 

STHAPATYA-YEDA.  The  science  of  architecture,  one  of 
the  Upa-vedas. 

STHUYA,  STHUiYl-KARYA.  A  Yaksha  who  is  repre- 
sented in  the  Maha-bharata  to  have  changed  sexes  for  a  while 
with  iSikhawfiini,  daughter  of  Drupada. 

SU-EAHU.  'Five-armed.'  i.  A  son  of  Dhnta-rash/fra  and 
king  of  Chedi.      2.  A  son  of  >S'atru-ghna  and  king  of  Mathura. 

SU-BALA.  I.  A  king  of  Gandhara,  father  of  Gandhari,  wife 
of  DhWta-rash^Jra.  2.  A  mountain  in  Lanka  on  which  Hanuman 
alighted  after  leaping  over  the  channel. 

SU-BHADRA.  Daughter  of  Yasu-deva,  sister  of  KWsh?^a, 
and  wife  of  Arjuna.  Bala-rama,  her  elder  brother,  wished  to 
give  her  to  Dur-yodhana,  but  Arjuna  carried  her  off  from  Dwaraka 
at  Knsh??a's  suggestion,  and  Bala-rama  subsequently  acquiesced 
in  their  union.  She  was  mother  of  Abhimanyu.  She  appears 
especially  as  sister  of  K?*ish?za  in  his  form  Jagan-natha,  and 
according  to  tradition  there  was  an  incestuous  intimacy  between 
them.  When  the  car  of  Jagan-natha  is  brought  out  the  images 
of  Su-bhadra  and  Bala-rama  accompany  the  idol,  and  the  inti- 
macy of  Jagan-natha  and  Su-bhadra  is  said  to  provoke  taunts  and 
reproaches. 

aS^UBHANGI  'Fair-limbed.'  An  epithet  of  Rati,  wife  of 
Kama,  and  of  Yakshi,  wife  of  Kuvera. 

SU-BHANU.     Son  of  Krish?ia  and  Satya-bhama. 

u 


3o5  SU-B  ODHINI—SUHMA. 

SU-BODHIXL  A  commentary  by  Yisweswara  Blia//a  on  the 
law-book  called  Mitaksliara. 

SU-BKAHMAi\^YA.  A  name  of  Karttikeya,  god  of  war, 
used  especially  in  the  South.     See  Karttikeya. 

SU-CHAEU.     A  son  of  KfisliTia  and  Eukmi?ii. 

SU-DAR>SAjS"A  a  name  of  Kr/sh?ia's  chakra  or  discus 
weapon.     See  Yajra-nabha. 

SUDAS.  a  king  who  frequently  appears  in  the  i?/g- veda, 
and  at  whose  court  the  rival  ^I'shis  Yasish/ha  and  Yiswamitra 
are  represented  as  living.     He  was  famous  for  his  sacrifices. 

SU-DESHXA.     Son  of  K?7'shwa  and  Rukmi?ii, 

,S'U-DESHiSrA.  'Good-looking.'  i.  Y^ife  of  the  Raja  of 
Yira/a,  the  patron  of  the  disguised  Pa?zf/avas,  and  mistress  of 
Draupadi.      2.  Also  the  wife  of  Balin. 

SU-DHARMA,  SU-DHARMAK  The  hall  of  Indra,  "  the 
unrivalled  gem  of  princely  courts,"  which  lO'/shwa  commanded 
Indra  to  resign  to  Ugrasena,  for  the  assemblage  of  the  race  of 
Yadu.  After  the  death  of  K?'/sh7ia  it  returned  to  Indra's 
heaven. 

aS'UDRA.    The  fourth  or  servile  caste.     See  Yarwa. 

>S^DRAKA.  A  king  who  wrote  the  play  called  jMr/chchha- 
ka/i,  '  the  toy-cart,'  in  ten  acts. 

SU-DYUM^A.  Son  of  the  j\Ianu  Yaivaswata.  At  his  birth 
he  was  a  female,  Ila,  but  was  afterwards  changed  into  a  male  and 
called  Su-dyumna.  Under  the  curse  of  iS'iva  he  again  became 
Ha,  who  married  Budha  or  Mercury,  and  was  mother  of  Puru- 
ravas.  By  favour  of  Yisli?iu  the  male  form  was  again  recovered, 
and  Su-dyumna  became  the  father  of  three  sons.  This  legend 
evidently  has  reference  to  the  origin  of  the  Lunar  race  of  kings. 

SU-GRlYA.  'Handsome  neck.'  A  monkey  king  who  was 
dethroned  by  his  brother  Bfdin,  but  after  the  latter  had  been 
killed,  Su-gaiva  was  re-installed  by  Rama  as  king  at  Kishkin- 
dliyii.  He,  with  his  adviser  Hanuman  and  tlieir  army  of 
monkeys,  were  the  allies  of  Rama  in  his  war  against  Rava?w,  in 
which  he  was  wounded.  He  is  said  to  have  been  son  of  the  sun, 
and  from  his  paternity  he  is  called  Ravi-nandana  ajid  by  other 
similar  names.  He  is  described  as  being  grateful,  active  in  aiding 
his  friends,  and  able  to  change  his  form  at  will.  His  wife's 
name  was  Ruma. 

SUHMA     A  country  said  to  be  east  of  Bengal. 


SUKA'SAPTA  TI—SUMBHA.  307 

iSTJKA-SAPTATI.  'The  seventy  (tales)  of  a  parrot.'  This 
is  the  original  of  the  Tuti-namah  of  the  Persian,  from  which 
the  Hindustani  Tota-kahani  was  translated. 

>S'UKEA.  The  planet  Yenus  and  its  regent.  ^S^ukra  was  son 
of  Eh?7gu  and  priest  of  Bali  and  the  Daityas  (Daitya-giiru).  He 
is  also  called  the  son  of  Kavi.  His  wife's  name  was  /S'lisuma  or 
/S'ata-parwa.  His  daughter  Devayani  married  Yayati  of  the 
Lunar  race,  and  her  husband's  infidelity  induced  ^ukra  to  curse 
him.  ^S'ukra  is  identified  with  Usanas,  and  is  author  of  a  code 
of  law.  The  Hari-van.sa  relates  that  he  went  to  AS'iva  and  asked 
for  means  of  protecting  the  Asuras  against  the  gods,  and  for 
obtaining  his  object  he  performed  "  a  painful  rite,  imbibing  the 
smoke  of  chaff  with  his  head  downwards  for  a  thousand  years." 
In  his  absence  the  gods  attacked  the  Asuras  and  yish?m  killed 
his  mother,  for  which  deed  /S'ukra  cursed  him  "to  be  born  seven 
times  in  the  world  of  men."  ^S^ukra  restored  his  mother  to  life, 
and  the  gods  being  alarmed  lest  ^S'ukra's  penance  should  be 
accomplished,  Indra  sent  his  daughter  JayantI  to  lure  him  from 
it.  She  waited  upon  him  and  soothed  him,  but  he  accomplished 
his  penance  and  afterwards  married  her.  ^ukra  is  known  by 
his  patronymic  Bhargava,  and  also  as  Blmgu.  He  is  also  Kavi 
or  Kavya,  '  the  poet.'  The  planet  is  called  Asphujit,  'Ap^o^/V?j; 
Magha-bhava,  son  of  Magha ;  Shodasansu,  '  having  sixteen 
rays  ; '  and  /S'weta,  'the  white.' 

SUKTA.    AVedichymn. 

STJ-MANTRA.  The  chief  counsellor  of  Raja  Da-sa-ratha  and 
friend  of  Rama. 

SXJ-MANTU.  The  collector  of  the  hymns  of  the  Atharva- 
veda ;  he  is  said  to  have  been  a  pupil  of  Yeda  Yyasa,  and  to 
have  acted  under  his  guidance. 

iSUMBHA  and  NISHUMBHA.  Two  Asuras,  brothers, 
who  were  killed  by  Durga.  These  brothers,  as  related  in  the 
Marka7i(ieya  Purawa,  were  votaries  of  >S'iva,  and  performed  severe 
penance  for  5000  years  in  order  to  obtain  immortality.  AS'iva 
refused  the  boon,  and  they  continued  their  devotions  with  such 
increased  intensity  for  800  years  more,  that  the  gods  trembled 
for  their  power.  By  advice  of  Indra,  the  god  of  love,  Kama, 
went  to  them  with  two  celestial  nymphs,  Rambha  and  Tilottama, 
and  they  succeeded  in  seducing  the  two  Asuras  and  holding  them 
in  the  toils  of  sensuality  for  5000  years.     On  recovering  from  their 


3o8  SU-MERU—SUNAH-SEPHAS. 

voliiptuoiTS  a"berration  they  drove  the  nyinphs  back  to  paradise 
and  recommenced  their  penance.  At  the  end  of  looo  years 
A^iva  blessed  them  "  that  in  riches  and  strength  they  should 
excel  the  gods."  In  their  exaltation  they  warred  against  the 
gods,  who,  in  despair,  appealed  in  succession  to  Brahma,  A^ish?iu, 
and  ^iva,  but  in  vain.  The  latter  advised  them  to  apply  to 
Durga,  and  they  did  so.  She  contrived  to  engage  the  Asuras  in 
war,  defeated  their  forces,  slew  their  commanders,  Chawc?a  and 
MuTif/a,  and  finally  killed  them.     See  Sunda. 

SU-MEE,U.     The  mountain  Meru,  actual  or  personified. 

SU-MITRA.  Wife  of  Dasa-ratha  and  mother  of  Lakshmawa 
and  6'atru-ghna.     See  Dasa-ratha. 

SU-MUKHA.  '  Handsome  face.'  This  epithet  is  used  for 
Garu(ia  and  for  the  son  of  Garuc?a. 

/STJ^A^-aS'EPHAS.  The  legend  of  >S'una/i-sephas,  as  told  in 
the  Aitareya  Brahma?ia,  is  as  follows  : — King  Haris-chandra,  of 
the  race  of  Evshwaku,  being  childless,  made  a  vow  that  if  he 
obtained  a  son  he  would  sacrifice  him  to  Yaru^za.  A  son  was 
borii  who  received  the  name  of  Kohita,  but  the  father  post- 
poned, under  various  pretexts,  the  fulfilment  of  his  vow.  Wlien 
at  length  he  resolved  to  perform  the  sacrifice,  Rohita  refused 
to  be  the  victim,  and  went  out  into  the  forest,  where  he  lived 
for  six  years.  He  then  met  a  poor  Brahman  Rkhi  called 
AjTgartta,  who  had  three  sons,  and  Rohita  purchased  from 
Ajigartta  for  a  hundred  cows,  the  second  son,  named  /S'unaA- 
sephas,  to  be  the  substitute  for  himself  in  the  sacrifice.  Varuwa 
approved  of  the  substitute,  and  the  sacrifice  was  about  to  be  per- 
formed, the  father  receiving  another  hundred  cows  for  binding 
his  son  to  the  sacrificial  post,  and  a  third  hundred  for  agreeing 
to  slaughter  him.  /Suna^-,9ephas  saved  himself  by  reciting  verses 
in  honour  of  different  deities,  and  was  received  into  the  family  of 
Vi.swamitra,  who  was  one  of  the  ofliciating  priests.  The  Rrima- 
ya72a  gives  a  different  version  of  the  legend.  Ambarlsha,  king 
of  Ayodhya,  was  performing  a  sacrifice  when  Indra  carried  off  the 
victim.  The  officiating  priest  represented  that  this  loss  could  be 
atoned  for  only  by  the  sacrifice  of  a  human  victim.  The  king, 
after  a  long  search,  found  a  Brahman  itzshi  named  ii/chika,  who 
had  two  sons,  and  the  younger,  *S'unaA-scplias,  was  then  sold  by 
his  own  consent  for  a  hundred  thousand  cows,  ten  millions  of  gold 
pieces,  and  heaps  of  jewels.     AS'una/i-sephas  met  with  his  mater- 


SU-NAMAN— SURAS.  309 

nal  uncle,  Viswamitra,  who  taught  him  two  divine  verses  which 
he  was  to  repeat  when  about  to  be  sacrificed.  As  he  was  bound 
at  the  stake  to  be  immolated,  he  celebrated  the  two  gods  Indra 
and  Vish?iu  with  the  excellent  verses,  and  Indra,  being  pleased, 
bestowed  upon  him  long  life.  He  was  afterwards  called  Deva- 
rata,  and  is  said  to  have  become  son  of  Yiswamitra.  The  Maha- 
bharata  and  the  PuraTias  show  some  few  variations.  A  series  of 
seven  hymns  in  the  it^g-veda  is  attributed  to  /SunaA-sephas.  See 
Muir's  Texts,  i.  355,  407,  413  ;  Vishnu  Furana,  iv.  25  ;  Midler's 
Sanskrit  Literature,  408 ;  Wilson's  Big-veda,  i.  60. 

SU-J^TAMAK  Son  of  Ugrasena  and  brother  of  Kansa.  He 
was  king  of  the  >S'urasenas.  When  Kansa  was  overpowered  in 
battle  by  Knslma,  Su-niiman  went  to  succour  him,  but  was  en- 
countered and  slain  by  Bala-rama. 

SU-NANDA.  A  princess  of  Chedi  who  befriended  Dama- 
yanti  when  she  was  deserted  by  her  husband. 

SUNDA.  Sunda  and  Upasunda,  of  the  Maha-bharata,  were 
two  Daityas,  sons  of  iJ^isunda,  for  whose  destruction  the  Apsaras 
Tilottama  was  sent  down  from  heaven.  They  quarrelled  for  her, 
and  killed  each  other.     See  /S'umbha. 

SU-PARiVAS.  '  Fine-winged'  "  Beings  of  superhuman  char- 
acter, as  Garu6?a,  and  other  birds  of  equally  fanciful  description ; 
one  of  those  classes  first  created  by  the  Brahmadikas,  and  in- 
cluded in  the  daily  presentation  of  water  to  deceased  ancestors, 
&c." — Wilson. 

SU-PARaS'WA.  a  fabulous  bird  in  the  Ramayarea.  He  was 
son  of  Sampati  and  nephew  of  Ja/ayus. 

SU-PRIYA.     '  Very  dear.'     Chief  of  the  Gandharvas. 

>S'URA.  A  Yadava  king  who  ruled  over  the  /Siirasenas  at 
Mathura ;  he  was  father  of  Vasu-deva  and  Kunti,  and  grand- 
father of  Iv?'ish?za. 

SURA.  Wine  or  spirituous  liquor,  personified  as  Sura-devi, 
a  goddess  or  nymph  produced  at  the  churning  of  the  ocean. 

SURABHI.  The  '  cow  of  plenty,'  produced  at  the  churning 
of  the  ocean,  who  granted  every  desire,  and  is  reverenced  as  "  the 
fountain  of  milk  and  curds. "     See  Kama-dhenu  and  NandinL 

SURAS.  In  the-  Vedas,  a  class  of  beings  connected  with 
Siirya,  the  sun.  The  inferior  deities  who  inhabit  Swarga ;  a 
god  in  general.  According  to  some,  the  word  is  allied  to  swar, 
'heaven;'    others  think  it  to  have   sprung  from   the   deriva- 


3IO  SU-RASA—SURYA. 

tiou  assigned  to  asura,  and  as  a-sura  is  said  to  signify  '  not  a 
god,'  sura  has  come  to  mean  'god.' 

SU-KASA.  A  Rakshasi,  mother  of  the  Kiigas.  ^^Hien  Hanii- 
man  was  on  his  flight  to  Lanka  against  EavaTia,  she  tried  to  save 
her  relative  by  swallowing  Hanuman  bodily.  To  avoid  this 
Hanuman  distended  his  body  and  continued  to  do  so,  while  she 
stretched  her  mouth  till  it  was  a  hundred  leagues  wide.  Then 
he  suddenly  shrank  up  to  the  size  of  a  thumb,  darted  through 
her,  and  came  out  at  her  right  ear. 

aSURASEXAS.  iN'ame  of  a  people,  the  Suraseni  of  Arrian. 
Their  capital  was  Mathura  on  the  Yamuna,  which  Manu  calls 
/S'iirasena. 

^RPA-]^AKHA.  'Having  nails  like  winnowing-fans.' 
Sister  of  RavaTza,  This  Rakshasi  admired  the  beauty  of  Rama 
and  fell  in  love  with  him.  When  she  made  advances  to  Rama 
he  referred  her  to  Lakshmawa,  and  LakshmaTza  in  like  manner 
sent  her  back  to  Rama.  Enraged  at  this  double  rejection,  she 
fell  upon  Sita,  and  Rama  was  obliged  to  interfere  forcibly  for  the 
protection  of  his  wife.  He  called  out  to  LakshmaTza  to  disfigure 
the  violent  Rakshasi,  and  Lakshma^/?a  cut  off  her  nose  and  ears. 
She  flew  to  her  brothers  for  revenge,  and  this  brought  on  the  war 
between  Rama  and  Ravawa.  She  descanted  to  Rava?ia  on  the 
beauty  of  Sita,  and  instigated  his  carrying  her  off*,  and  finally 
she  cursed  liim  just  before  the  engagement  in  which  he  was 
killed. 

StJRYA.  The  sun  or  its  deity.  He  is  one  of  the  three  chief 
deities  in  the  Yedas,  as  the  great  source  of  light  and  warmth, 
but  the  references  to  him  are  more  poetical  than  precise.  Some- 
times he  is  identical  with  Savit7'i  and  Aditya,  sometimes  he  is 
distinct.  "  Sometimes  he  is  called  son  of  Dj'aus,  sometimes  of 
Aditi.  In  one  passage,  Ushas,  the  dawn,  is  his  wife,  in  another 
he  is  called  the  child  of  the  dawns ;  he  moves  through  the  sky 
in  a  chariot  drawn  by  seven  ruddy  horses  or  mares."  Surya  has 
several  wives,  but,  according  to  later  legends,  his  twin  sons  the 
Aswins,  who  are  ever  young  and  handsome  and  ride  in  a  golden 
car  as  precursors  of  Ushas,  the  dawn,  were  born  of  a  nymph 
called  Aswini,  from  her  having  concealed  herself  in  the  form  of 
a  mare.  In  the  Ramayawa  and  Purrmas,  Surya  is  said  to  be  the 
son  of  Kasyapa  and  Aditi,  but  in  the  Ramilyawa  he  is  otherwise 
referred  to  as  a  son  of  Bralima.     His  wife  was  Sanjna,  daughter 


SUR  YA—SUR  YA-KANTA.  311 

of  Yiswa-karma,  and  by  her  he  had  tliree  children,  the  Manu 
Vaivaswata,  Yama,  and  the  goddess  Yami,  or  the  Yamuna 
river.  His  effulgence  was  so  overpowering  that  his  wife  gave 
him  Chhaya  (shade)  for  a  handmaid,  and  retired  into  the  forest 
to  devote  herself  to  religion.  While  thus  engaged,  and  in  the 
form  of  a  mare,  the  sun  saw  her  and  ajiproached  her  in  the  form 
of  a  horse.  Hence  sprang  the  two  Aswins  and  Eevanta.  Surya 
brought  back  his  wife  Sanjna  to  his  home,  and  her  father,  the 
sage  Yiiwa-karma,  placed  the  luminary  on  his  lathe  and  cut 
away  an  eighth  of  his  effulgence,  trimming  him  in  every  part 
except  the  feet.  The  fragments  that  were  cut  off  fell  blazing  to 
the  earth,  and  from  them  Yiswa-karma  formed  the  discus  of 
Yishmi,  the  trident  of  A^iva,  the  weapon  of  Kuvera,  the  lance  of 
Ivarttikeya,  and  the  weapons  of  the  other  gods.  According  to 
the  Maha-bhiirata,  Karwa  was  his  illegitimate  son  by  KuntT.  He 
is  also  fabled  to  be  the  father  of  /Sani  and  the  monkey  chief  Su- 
griva.  The  Manu  Yaivaswata  was  father  of  Ikshwaku,  and  from 
him,  the  grandson  of  the  sun,  the  Surya-vansa,  or  Solar  race  of 
kings,  draws  its  orio;in.  In  the  form  of  a  horse  Siirva  commu- 
nicated  the  '\Yhite  Yajur-veda  to  Yajnawalkya,  and  it  was  he 
who  bestowed  on  Satrajit  the  Syamantaka  gem.  A  set  of  terrific 
Rakshasas  called  Mandehas  made  an  attack  upon  him  and  sought 
to  devour  him,  but  were  dispersed  by  his  light.  According  to 
the  Yishmi  Pura^ia  he  was  seen  by  Sattrajita  in  "his  proper 
form,"  "  of  dwarfish  stature,  with  a  body  like  burnished  copper, 
and  with  slightly  reddish  eyes."  Surya  is  represented  in  a  chariot 
drawn  by  seven  horses,  or  a  horse  with  seven  heads,  surrounded 
with  rays.  His  charioteer  is  Aru?ia  or  Yivaswat,  and  his  city 
Yivaswati  or  BhaswatL  There  are  temples  of  the  sun,  and  he 
receives  worship.  The  names  and  epithets  of  the  sun  are  number- 
less. He  is  Savitn,  '  the  nourisher  ; '  Yivaswat,  '  the  brilliant ; ' 
Bhaskara,  '  light-maker ; '  Dina-kara,  '  day-maker ; '  Arha-pati, 
'  lord  of  day ; '  Loka-chakshuh,  '  eye  of  the  world ; '  Karma- 
sakshT,  '  witness  of  the  deeds  (of  men) ; '  Graha-raja,  '  king  of 
the  constellations  ; '  Gabhastiman,  '  possessed  of  rays  ; '  Sahasra- 
kira?za,  '  having  a  thousand  rays ; '  Yikarttana,  '  shorn  of  his 
beams'  (by  Yiswa-karma);  Marta?z^a,  '  descended  from  M?ita?i6Za,' 
&c.     Surya's  wives  are  called  Savarwa,  Swati,  and  Maha-virya. 

SUR Y ATLANTA.     'The  sun-gem.'     A  crystal  supposed  to 
be  formed  of  condensed  rays  of  the  sun,  and  though  cool  to  the 


312  SURYA  -SIDDHANTA  —S  UTRA  . 

touch,  to  give  out  heat  in  the  sun's  rays.  There  is  a  similar 
moon-stone.      It  is  also  called  Dahanopala.      See  Chandra-kanta. 

SURYA  SIDDHANTA.  A  celebrated  work  on  astronomy, 
said  to  have  been  revealed  by  the  sun  (Siirya).  It  has  been 
edited  in  the  BiUiotheca  Indica  by  Hall,  and  there  are  other 
editions.     It  has  been  translated  by  Whitney  and  Burgess. 

SURYA- YAN/SA.  The  Solar  race.  A  race  or  lineage  of 
Kshatriyas  which  sprank  from  Ikshwaku,  grandson  of  the  sun. 
Rama  was  of  this  race,  and  so  were  many  other  great  kings  and 
heroes.  Many  Rajputs  claim  descent  from  this  and  the  other 
great  hneage,  the  Lunar  race.  The  Rana  of  Udaypur  claims  to 
be  of  the  Surya-vansa,  and  the  Jharejas  of  Cutch  and  Sindh 
assert  a  descent  from  the  Chandra-vansa.  There  were  two 
dynasties  of  the  Solar  race.  The  elder  branch,  which  reigned  at 
Ayodhya,  descended  from  Ikshwaku  through  his  eldest  son, 
Yikukshi.  The  other  dynasty,  reigning  at  Mithila,  descended 
from  another  of  Ikshwaku's  sons,  named  Nimi.  The  lists  of 
these  two  dynasties  on  the  opposite  page  are  taken  from  the 
Yishwu  Pura?^a.  The  lists  given  by  other  authorities  show  some 
discrepancies,  but  they  agree  in  general  as  to  the  chief  names. 

SU->S^ARMAN.  A  king  of  Tri-gartta,  who  attacked  the  Raja 
of  Yira^a,  and  defeated  him  and  made  him  prisoner,  but  Bhima 
rescued  the  Raja  and  made  Su-5arman  prisoner. 

SUSHENA.  I.  A  son  of  K?-ishwa  and  Rukmim.  2.  A  phy- 
sician in  the  army  of  Rama,  Avho  brought  the  dead  to  life  and 
performed  other  miraculous  cures. 

>SUSHiVA.  An  Asura  mentioned  in  the  i^/g-veda  as  kiUed 
by  Indra. 

SUaS'RUTA.  a  medical  writer  whose  date  is  uncertain,  but 
his  work  was  translated  into  Arabic  before  the  end  of  the  eighth 
century.  The  book  has  been  printed  at  Calcutta.  There  is  a 
Latin  translation  by  Heple*  and  one  in  German  by  Yullers. 

SUTA.     '  Charioteer.'     A  title  given  to  Kar??a. 

SU-TiKSHA^A.  A  hermit  sage  who  dwelt  in  the  Da/iiaka 
forest,  and  was  visited  by  Riima  and  Sita. 

SUTRA.  '  A  thread  or  string.'  A  rule  or  aphorism.  A  verse 
expressed  in  brief  and  technical  language, — a  very  favourite 
form  among  the  Hindus  of  embodying  and  transmitting  rules. 
There  are  Sutras  \\\)0i\  almost  every  subject,  but  "  the  Siitras  " 
generally  signify  those  which  are  connected  with  the  Yedas,  viz., 


S[//^VA-VANSA. 


313 


o 

p^ 

o 
m 

o 

■ 

P5 
w 


t5 

m 


S3 


c3 


c5 


e3 

IrH 


C3 


cd 
^ 


^ccH?;>(^cc>fiMM 


%  i 


?3   c3   O 


eS 


H-3 


?i   «4H 


Ip-H     ,-« 


?3S 


S3 


>   03 


rt 


s 

to 


1-^  S  tt'f^ 


ici 


c3  io3 

03   S 


03  ?^  J'  r^ 

J;;  ;-  r-i  3 

(rt  p3  Oj  be  c3 

rn  ^  ^  ^ 


c3 


o3 


13 

03 


c3 


c3. 


<A 


ee 


ri    C3 


:;   '3J   ;:^  ^^ 


■:;j  ic3 

^H       C3 


=0 

c3 


s  cj'^      ^_ail  5 


c3 


-^    ^ 
«§  d 


^;;?^  p 


'2  ^ 


WWkSfcC^S 


■A 

I 

e3 


e3 

S  fl  rt 

a>  o3  io3 

^  ^  > 
CO  ''  a 


J5  0! 


c3 
ic5    1=1 


c3 

=0 
IC3 

15   c3 


d       -^ 


03  ic^ 

e3 


t-^ 


CO 

> 


c3 

c3 
=0 


rt 


c3 


?:a=3^ 


c3 


CO  T5 


52    o3 

o3  ^ 


5    c3 


cS 


ii 

w 


IS 

o 

5s^ 


'^ 


w   '^   C 

r^     ^     " 


03 


03   CO 

CO    103 

ic3  tJ 
S3    c3 


03 

co'73 
103   g 


103 

c3 


c3 


03   o3 

^^ 

O  +^ 

03   03 

;>  ■ 


03 


ec  ^ 

S3    o 
ice     .       . 


a 

o3 


cS 


•■-    ^ 


n-^ 


^"3    r*^  fcO  c3    '^  „ 

-C  ,S    o3  •!— >  o3  Kil    S3  "-+J 

^        fiKP^WflP4<ifipHW<1 


03 


ce 


<A 


IS 

• 

03 

• 

c3 

j3 

!0 

c3 

• 

^ 

rsJ 

+i 

C3 

fH 

Ir. 

1 

0! 

S3 
03 

a 

s: 

c3 

■  i-H 

iS 

03 

> 
c3 

1^ 
Ph 

S       >H       >-( 

ccEhH 

c3 

fl   S   ^ 

Cw    rj    to 

.'-'  .2  -1=! 


3 

O 

S3 

=^ri:3 


^  02 

Co    M 

;:7s3 


c3 

03-^ 
k>    S3 

lis 


c3 


CO 

S3   =5 

2  2 


c3 


c3 
03    c« 

c^  :3 


c3 

.  a, 
03  ir 
,i:3  H- 
,2^ 


03 

fcci?^  Si 

ie3    "■ 


K   c3  ;3     •  'y   03   ^ 


.  c3 

m  m 

M 

•  ^   cc 


CO       • 

03    S3 

SSrQ 


03 

Co 

c3 

c« 
Co 


03 
Co 


03 
103  "^ 


oj 


f 

S3 
c3   S3 

SaQ   c3 
0:    «    B  ic3 


e3 


03 
> 


>   5   S;   2   =!   03 

n2css3=^.S^s3'"£:s="-^'^?^03..^s!Hi:;s3J2sS^s 


.  03 

-5   ^  c: 

03     r-<  'T^ 

^   r— c  Co 

>rO  1C3      K- 

o3   S3  ^   ^ 

e3:;3 


.    c3.^      •    S3     . 

•-  ^  is  «  >>  J 

CO 

o3 


03 
>^ 

o3 


3T4  SUTUDRl—SWAYAM-BHU. 

the  Kalpa  Sutras,  relating  to  ritual;  the  Griliya  Siitras,  to 
domestic  rites ;  and  the  Samayacharika  Sutras,  to  conventional 
usages.  The  Kalpa  Sutras,  having  especial  reference  to  the  Yeda 
or  /Sruti,  are  called  ^Srauta ;  the  others  are  classed  as  Smarta,  being 
derived  from  the  Sm?-?ti.  The  Sutras  generally  are  anterior  to 
Manu,  and  are  probably  as  old  as  the  sixth  century  B.C.  Several 
have  been  published  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica. 

>S'UTUDRI.     The  river  Satlej.     See  /S'ata-dm. 

SU-YAHU.  A  Rakshasa,  son  of  Taraka.  He  was  killed  by 
Rama. 

SU-YELA.  One  of  the  three  peaks  of  the  mountain  Tri- 
kii/a,  on  the  midmost  of  which  the  city  of  Lanka  was  built. 

SU-Y0DHA:N'A.      '  Fair  fighter.'    A  name  of  Dur-yodliana. 

S  WAD  HA.  'Oblation,'  Daughter  of  Daksha  and  Prasuti 
according  to  one  statement,  and  of  Agni  according  to  another. 
She  is  connected  with  the  Pitr/s  or  Manes,  and  is  represented 
as  wife  of  Kavi  or  of  one  class  of  Pitr/s,  and  as  mother  of 
others. 

SWAHA.  'Offering.'  Daughter  of  Daksha  and  Prasuti. 
She  was  wife  of  Yahni  or  Fire,  or  of  AbhimanT,  one  of  the 
Agnis. 

^SWA-PHALKA.  Husband  of  Gandini  and  father  of  Akrura. 
He  was  a  man  of  great  sanctity  of  character,  and  where  "  he 
dwelt  famine,  plague,  death,  and  other  visitations  were  un- 
known." His  presence  once  brought  rain  to  the  kingdom  of 
Ka5i-raja,  where  it  was  much  wanted. 

SWAR.     See  Yyah?-iti. 

SWARGA.  The  heaven  of  Indra,  the  abode  of  the  inferior 
gods  and  of  beatified  mortals,  supposed  to  be  situated  on  Mount 
Meru.  It  is  called  also  Sairibha,  Misraka-vana,  Tavisha,  Tri- 
divam,  Tri-pish/apam,  and  Urdhwa-loka.  ISTames  of  heaven  or 
2:)aradise  in  general  are  also  used  for  it. 

SWAR-LOKA     See  Loka. 

SWAROCHISHA.     Is^ame  of  the  second  Manu.     See  Manu. 

SWASTIKA.  A  mystical  religious  mark  placed  upon  per- 
sons or  things.    It  is  in  the  form  of  a  Greek  cross  with  the  ends 

bent  round  '^pfi 

SWAYAM-BHU.  '  The  self-existent'  A  name  of  Brahma, 
the  creator. 


SWAYAM-BHUVA—SYAMANTAKA.  315 

SWAYAM-BHUVA.     A  name  of  the  first  Manu  (q.v.). 

aSWETA-DWIPA.  '  The  white  island  or  continent'  Colonel 
"VVilford  attempted  to  identify  it  with  Britain. 

/S'WETA-KETU.  A  sage  who,  according  to  the  Maha-bharata, 
put  a  stop  to  the  practice  of  married  women  consorting  with 
other  men,  especially  with  Brahmans.  His  indignation  was 
aroused  at  seeing  a  Brahman  take  his  mother  by  the  hand  and 
invite  her  to  go  away  with  him.  The  husband  saw  this,  and 
told  his  son  that  there  was  no  ground  of  offence,  for  the  practice 
had  prevailed  from  time  immemorial.  /S'weta-ketu  would  not 
tolerate  it,  and  introduced  the  rule  by  which  a  wife  is  forbidden 
to  have  intercourse  with  another  man  unless  specially  appointed 
by  her  husband  to  raise  up  seed  to  him. 

S"\yETA6'WATAEA.  An  Upanishad  attached  to  the  Yajur- 
veda.  It  is  one  of  the  most  modern.  Translated  by  Dr.  Koer 
for  the  Bibliotheca  Indica. 

aSYALA.  '  A  brother-in-law.'  A  Yadava  prince  who  in- 
sulted the  sage  Gargya,  and  was  the  cause  of  his  becoming  the 
father  of  Kala-yavana,  a  great  foe  of  Krisll?^a  and  the  Yadava 
family. 

iS'YAMA.  'The  black.'  A  name  of  diva's  consort.  See 
Pevi. 

SYAMANTAKA.  A  celebrated  gem  given  by  the  sun  to 
Satrajita.  "  It  yielded  daily  eight  loads  of  gold,  and  dispelled 
all  fear  of  portents,  wild  beasts,  fire,  robbers,  and  famine."  But 
though  it  was  an  inexhaustible  source  of  good  to  the  virtuous 
wearer,  it  was  deadly  to  a  wicked  one.  Satrajita  being  afraid 
that  Krish?2a  would  take  it  from  him,  gave  it  to  his  own  brother, 
Prasena,  but  he,  being  a  bad  man,  was  killed  by  a  lion,  Jam- 
bavat,  king  of  the  bears,  killed  the  lion  and  carried  off  the  gem, 
but  K?'zsh?ia,  after  a  long  conflict,  took  it  from  him,  and  restored 
it  to  Satrajita.  Afterwards  Satrajita  was  killed  in  his  sleep 
by  /S'ata-dlianwan,  who  carried  off  the  gem.  Being  pursued  by 
K?"ish?2a  and  Bala-rama,  he  gave  the  gem  to  Akriira  and  con- 
tinued his  flight,  but  he  was  overtaken  and  killed  by  Kn*sh?ia 
alone.  As  K7*ish?ia  did  not  bring  back  the  jewel,  Bala-rama 
suspected  that  he  had  secreted  it,  and  consequently  he  upbraided 
him  and  parted  from  him,  declaring  that  he  would  not  be  im- 
posed upon  by  perjuries.  Akriira  subsequently  produced  the 
gem,  and  it  was  claimed  by  K7'/sh7za,  Bala-rama,  and  Satya- 


3i6  SYAVASWA—TALAJANGHA. 

bhaina.  After  some  contention  it  was  decided  that  Akrura 
should  keep  it,  and  so  "  he  moved  about  like  the  sun  wearing  a 
garland  of  light." 

aSYAYAaSWA.  Son  of  Archananas.  Both  were  Yedic  itisliis. 
In  a  hymn  he  says,  "  /SasiyasI  has  given  me  cattle,  comprising 
horses  and  cows  and  hundreds  of  sheep."  The  story  told  in 
explanation  is  that  Ai^chananas,  having  seen  the  daughter  of 
Raja  Rathaviti,  asked  her  in  marriage  for  his  son  /S'yavaswa.  The 
king  was  inclined  to  consent,  but  the  queen  objected  that  no 
daughter  of  their  house  had  ever  been  given  to  any  one  less 
saintly  than  a  Rklii.  To  qualify  himself  /S'yavaswa  engaged  in 
austerities  and  begged  alms.  Among  others,  he  begged  of  >S'asI- 
yasl,  wife  of  Raja  Taranta.  She  took  him  to  her  husband,  with 
whose  permission  she  gave  him  a  herd  of  cattle  and  costly  orna- 
ments. The  Raja  also  gave  him  whatever  he  asked  for,  and 
sent  him  on  to  his  younger  brother,  Purumlllia.  On  his  way  he 
met  the  Maruts,  and  lauded  them  in  a  hymn,  for  which  they 
made  him  a  itishi.  He  then  returned  to  Rathaviti,  and  received 
his  daughter  to  wife. 

TA7)AKA.     See  Taraka. 

TAITTIRIYA.  This  term  is  applied  to  the  Sanliita  of  the 
Black  Yajur-veda.  {See  Yeda.)  It  is  also  applied  to  a  Brah- 
ma7ia,  to  an  Ara7^yaka,  to  an  Upanishad,  and  a  Pratisakhya  of 
the  same  Yeda.  All  these  are  printed,  or  are  in  course  of  print- 
ing, in  the  Bibliotheca  Inclica,  and  of  the  last  there  is  a  transla- 
tion in  that  serial. 

TAKSHA,  TAKSHAKA.  Son  of  Bharata,  and  nephew  of 
Rama-chandra.  The  sovereign  of  Gandhara,  who  resided  at  and 
probably  founded  Taksha-5lla  or  Taxila,  in  the  Pt^njab. 

TAKSHAKA.  '  One  who  cuts  off;  a  carpenter.'  A  name  of 
Yi.swa-karma.     A  serpent,  son  of  Kadru,  and  chief  of  snakes. 

TAKSHA-zSlLA.  A  city  of  the  Gandharas,  situated  in  the 
Panjab,  It  w^as  the  residence  of  Taksha,  son  of  Bharata  and 
nephew  of  Rama-chandra,  and  jDerhaps  took  its  name  from  him. 
It  is  the  Taxila  of  Ptolemy  and  other  classical  writers.  Arrian 
describes  it  as  "  a  large  and  wealthy  city,  and  the  most  populous 
between  the  Indus  and  Ilydaspes."  It  was  three  days'  journey 
east  of  tlie  Indus,  and  General  Cunningham  has  found  its 
remains  at  Sahh-dharl,  one  mile  north-east  of  Kala-klsarai. 

TALAJANGHA.     Son  of  Jaya-dhwaja,  king  of  Avanti,  of 


TALA-KETU—TANTRA.  317 

the  Hailiaya  race,  and  founder  of  the  Tala-jangha  tribe  of  Hai- 
hayas.     See  Haihaya. 

TALA-KETU.  '  Palm-banner.'  An  appellation  of  Bhishma; 
also  of  an  enemy  killed  by  Kr ish?ia.  Eala-rama  had  the  synonym- 
ous appellation  Tala-dhwaja. 

TALAM.     The  throne  of  Durga. 

TALAVAKx\RA.     A  name  of  the  Kena  Upanishad. 

TAMASA.     The  fourth  Manu.     See  Manu. 

T  AM  AS  A.  The  river  "  Tonse,"  rising  in  the  i?iksha  moun- 
tains, and  falling  into  the  Ganges. 

TAMRA-LIPTA.  The  country  immediately  west  of  the  Bha- 
girathi ;  Tamlook,  Hijjali,  and  Midnapore.  Its  inhabitants  are 
called  Tamra-liptakas. 

TAMRA-PARiVA,  TALIRA-PARATI.  Ceylon,  the  ancient 
Taprobane.  There  was  a  town  in  the  island  called  Tamra-parwl, 
from  which  the  whole  island  has  been  called  by  that  name. 

TAiV7)U.  One  of  /S'iva's  attendants.  He  was  skilled  in  music, 
and  invented  the  dance  called  Tawt?ava.     See  ^Siva. 

TA7V"i)YA,  TAiVZ)AKA.  The  most  important  of  the  eight 
Brahmawas  of  the  Sama-veda.  It  has  been  published  in  the 
Bihliotheca  hidica. 

T ANTRA.  '  Rule,  ritual.'  The  title  of  a  numerous  class  of 
religious  and  magical  works,  generally  of  later  date  than  the 
Pura?zas,  and  representing  a  later  development  of  religion, 
although  the  worship  of  the  female  energy  had  its  origin  at  an 
earlier  period.  The  chief  pecuHarity  of  the  Tantras  is  the  pro- 
minence they  give  to  the  female  energy  of  the  deity,  his  active 
nature  being  personified  in  the  person  of  his  ^Sakti,  or  wife. 
There  are  a  few  Tantras  which  make  Vish?m's  wife  or  Radha 
the  object  of  devotion,  but  the  great  majority  of  them  are 
devoted  to  one  of  the  manifold  forms  of  Devi,  the  ^Sakti  of  jS'iva, 
and  they  are  commonly  written  in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  between 
these  two  deities.  Devi,  as  the  ^S'akti  of  /S'iva,  is  the  especial 
energy  concerned  with  sexual  intercourse  and  magical  powers, 
and  these  are  the  leading  topics  of  the  Tantras.  There  are  five 
requisites  for  Tantra  worship,  the  five  Makaras  or  five  m's — (i.) 
Madya,  wine;  (2.)  Mansa,  flesh;  (3.)  Matsya,  fish;  (4.)  Mudra, 
parched  grain  and  mystic  gesticulations ;  (5.)  Maithuna,  sexual 
intercourse.  Each  ^S'akti  has  a  twofold  nature,  white  and  black, 
gentle  and  ferocious.     Thus  Uma  and  Gauri  are  gentle  forms  of 


3i8  TAPAR-LOKA—TARKSHYA. 

the  ASakti  of  5iva,  while  Diirga  and  Kali  are  fierce  forms.  The 
>Saktas  or  worshippers  of  the  5aktis  are  divided  into  two  classes, 
Dakshinacharis  and  Vamacharis,  the  right-handed  and  the  left- 
handed.  The  worship  of  the  right-hand  >Saktas  is  comparatively 
decent,  but  that  of  the  left  hand  is  addressed  to  the  fierce  forms 
of  the  /S'aktis,  and  is  most  licentious.  The  female  principle  is 
worsliipped,  not  only  symbolically,  but  in  the  actual  woman, 
and  promiscuous  intercourse  forms  part  of  the  orgies.  Tantra 
worship  prevails  chiefly  in  Bengal  and  the  Eastern  provinces. 

TAPAE-LOKA,  TAPO-LOKA.     Se&  Loka. 

TAP  ATI.  The  river  Tapti  personified  as  a  daughter  of  the 
Sun  by  Chhaya.     She  was  mother  of  Kuru  by  Samvarawa. 

TARA.  Wife  of  the  monkey  king  Balin,  and  mother  of 
Angada.  After  the  death  of  Balin  in  battle  she  was  taken  to 
wife  by  his  brother,  Su-griva. 

TARA,  TARAKA.  Wife  of  Bnhaspati.  According  to  the 
Pura/ias,  Soma,  the  moon,  carried  her  off,  which  led  to  a  great 
war  between  the  gods  and  the  Asuras.  Brahma  put  an  end  to 
the  war  and  restored  Tarii,  but  she  was  delivered  of  a  child 
which  she  declared  to  be  the  son  of  Soma,  and  it  was  named 
Budha.     See  Brzliaspati. 

TARAKA.  Son  of  A^ajranaka.  A  Daitya  whose  austerities 
made  him  formidable  to  the  gods,  and  for  whose  destruction 
Skanda,  the  god  of  war,  was  miraculously  born. 

TARAKA.  A  female  Daitya,  daughter  of  the  Yaksha  Su-ketu 
or  of  the  demon  Sunda,  and  mother  of  Maricha.  She  was 
changed  into  a  Rakshasi  by  Agastya,  and  lived  in  a  forest  called 
by  her  name  on  the  Ganges,  opposite  the  confluence  of  the  Sarju, 
and  she  ravaged  all  the  country  round.  Yiswamitra  desired 
Rama-chandra  to  kill  her,  but  he  was  reluctant  to  kill  a  woman. 
He  resolved  to  deprive  her  of  the  power  of  doing  harm,  and  cut 
off  her  two  arms.  Lakslima?ia  cut  off  her  nose  and  ears.  She, 
by  the  power  of  sorcery,  assailed  Rama  and  Lakshma?ia  with  a 
fearful  shower  of  stones,  and  at  the  earnest  command  of  Yiswa- 
mitra, the  former  killed  her  with  an  arrow. — Ramdyana. 

TARAKA-MAYA.  The  war  which  arose  in  consequence  of 
Soma,  the  moon,  having  carried  off  Tara,  the  wife  of  Brihaspati. 

TARKSIIYA.  An  ancient  mythological  personification  of 
tlie  sun  in  the  form  of  a  horse  or  bird.  In  later  times  the  name 
is  applied  to  Garu6?a. 


TATWA  SAMASA—TRI-GARTTA.  319 

TATWA  SAMASA.  A  text-book  of  the  Sankliya  pliilo- 
sopliy,  attributed  to  Kapila  himself. 

TELINGA.  The  Telugu  country,  stretching  along  the  coast 
from  Orissa  to  Madras. 

TILOTTAMA,  Name  of  an  Apsaras.  She  was  originally  a 
Brahman  female,  but  for  the  offence  of  bathing  at  an  improper 
season  she  was  condemned  to  be  born  as  an  Apsaras,  for  the 
purpose  of  bringing  about  the  mutual  destruction  of  the  two 
demons  Sunda  and  Upasunda. 

TIMIN,  TIMIN-GILA.  The  Timin  is  a  large  fabulous  fish. 
The  Timin-gila,  'swallower  of  the  Timin,'  is  a  still  larger  one; 
and  there  is  one  yet  larger,  the  Timin-gila-gila  or  Timi-timin-gila, 
'swallowerof  the  Timin-gila.'  Cf.  the  Arabic  Tinnin,  sea-serpent. 
It  is  also  called  Samudraru. 

TISHYA.     The  Kali  Yuga  or  fourth  age. 

TITTIRI.  '  A  partridge.'  An  ancient  sage  who  was  the  pupil 
of  Yaska,  and  is  an  authority  referred  to  by  Pamni.  Some  attri- 
bute the  Taittirlya  Sanhita  of  the  Yajur-veda  to  him.    See  Yeda. 

TOSALAKA.  An  athelete  and  boxer  who  was  killed  by 
Iv7*fsh?ia  in  the  public  arena  in  the  presence  of  Kansa. 

TRAIGAETTAS.     The  people  of  Tri-gartta  (q.v.). 

TRASADASYU.  A  royal  sage  and  author  of  hymns.  Ac- 
cording to  SayaTza,  he  was  son  of  Purukutsa.  When  Purukutsa 
was  a  prisoner,  "his  queen  propitiated  the  seven  itishis  to  obtain 
a  son  who  might  take  his  father's  place.  They  advised  her  to 
worship  Indra  and  Yaruwa,  in  consequence  of  which  Trasadasyu 
was  born."  He  was  renowned  for  his  generosity.  According  to 
the  Bhagavata  Pura?^a  he  was  father  of  Purukutsa. 

TRETA  YUGA.  The  second  age  of  the  world,  a  period  of 
1,296,000  years.     See  Yuga. 

TRI-BHUVANA,  TRI-LOKA.  The  three  worlds,  Swarga, 
Bhiimi,  Patala — heaven,  earth,  and  helL 

TRI-DAaSA.  'Three  times  ten,  thirt}^'  In  round  numbers, 
the  thirty-three  deities — twelve  Adityas,  eight  Vasus,  eleven 
Rudras,  and  two  Aswins. 

TRI-GARTTA.  'The  country  of  the  three  strongholds,' 
lately  identified  with  the  northern  hiU  state  of  Kotocli,  which  is 
still  called  by  the  people  "the  country  of  Traigart." — Wilson. 
General  Cunningham,  however,  clearly  identifies  it  with  the 
Jalandhar  Doab  and  Kangra. 


320  TRI-JA  TA—TRI-MURTI. 

TRI-JATA.  An  amiable  Eaksliasi  wlio  "befriended  Sita 
when  she  was  the  captive  of  EavaTia  in  Ceylon.  She  is  also 
called  Dhanna-jna. 

TEI-KAiV7)A  aS'ESHA  A  Sanskri't  vocabulary  in  three 
chapters,  composed  as  a  supplement  to  the  Amara-kosha.  It 
has  been  printed  in  India. 

TRI-KUJA.  'Three  peaks.'  i.  The  mountain  on  which 
the  city  of  Lanka  was  built.  2.  A  mountain  range  running 
south  from  Meru. 

TRI-LOCHANA.  '  Three-eyed/ ?'.g.,  iS'iva.  The  Maha-bhSrata 
relates  that  the  third  eye  burst  from  /Siva's  forehead  with  a  great 
flame  when  his  wife  playfully  placed  her  hands  over  his  eyes 
after  he  had  been  engaged  in  austerities  in  the  Himalaya.  This 
eye  has  been  very  destructive.  It  reduced  Kama,  the  god  of 
love,  to  ashes, 

TRI-MURTI.  'Triple  form.'  The  Hindu  triad.  This  was 
foreshadowed  in  the  Yedic  association  of  the  three  gods  Agni, 
Vayu,  and  Surya.  The  triad  consists  of  the  gods  Brahma,  A^iva, 
and  Yish?iu,  the  representatives  of  the  creative,  destructive, 
and  preservative  principles.  Brahma  is  the  embodiment  "of 
the  Rajo-guwa,  the  quality  of  passion  or  desire,  by  which  the 
world  was  caUed  into  being ;  ^Siva  is  the  embodied  Tamo-guwa, 
the  attribute  of  darkness  or  wrath,  and  the  destructive  fire  by 
which  the  earth  is  annihilated ;  and  Yish/iu  is  the  embodied 
Satwa-gu?ia,  or  property  of  mercy  and  goodness  by  which  the 
world  is  preserved.  The  three  exist  in  one  and  one  in  three,  as 
the  Veda  is  divided  into  three  and  is  yet  but  one  ;  and  they 
are  all  Asrita,  or  comprehended  within  that  one  being  who  is 
Parama  or  '  supreme,'  Guhya  or  '  secret,'  and  Sarvatma,  '  the  soul 
of  all  things.'  " — JVilson. 

The  Padma  Vumna,  which  is  a  Yaish^^ava  work  and  gives  the 
supremacy  to  Yishwu,  says,  "  In  the  beginning  of  creation,  the 
great  Yislmu,  desirous  of  creating  the  whole  world,  became  three- 
fold :  creator,  preserver,  and  destroyer.  In  order  to  create  this 
world,  the  supreme  spirit  produced  from  the  right  side  of  his 
body  himself  as  Brahma ;  then  in  order  to  preserve  the  world  he 
produced  from  the  left  side  of  his  body  Yislmu ;  and  in  order  to 
destroy  the  world  he  produced  from  the  middle  of  his  body  the 
eternal  ^S'iva.  Some  worship  Brahma,  others  Yisli?m,  others  /Siva; 
but  Yishwu,  one  yet  threefold,  creates,  preserves,  and  destroys, 


TRINAVARTTA—TRITA.  321 

therefore  let  the  pious  make  no  difference  between  the  three." 
The  representation  of  the  Tri-murti  is  one  body  with  tliree 
heads  :  in  the  middle  Brahma,  on  the  right  Yish?iu,  and  on  the 
left  /Siva.  The  worship  of  Brahma  is  almost  extinct,  but  YisliTiu 
and  /Siva  receive  unbounded  adoration  from  their  respective 
followers,  and  each  is  elevated  to  the  dignity  of  the  supreme 
beinsf.  * 

Tii?/iVAYARTTA.  A  demon  who  assumed  the  form  of  a 
whirlwind  and  carried  off  the  infant  K?*ish?ia,  but  was  over- 
powered and  killed  by  the  child. 

TRI-PADA.  'Three-footed.'  Fever  personified  as  having 
three  feet,  symbolising  the  three  stages  of  fever — heat,  cold,  and 
sweat. 

TRI-PURA.  '  Triple  city.'  i.  According  to  the  Hari-vansa 
it  was  aerial,  and  was  burnt  in  a  war  Avith  the  gods.  2.  A  name 
of  the  demon  Ba?2a,  because  he  received  in  gift  three  cities  from 
/Siva,  Brahma,  and  Yishmi.  He  was  killed  by  /Siva.  His  name 
at  full  length  is  Tripurasura.     The  name  is  also  applied  to  /Siva. 

TRI-PURI.  The  capital  city  of  the  Chedis,  now  traceable 
in  the  insignificant  village  of  Tewar,  on  the  banks  of  the  JSTar- 
mada, 

TRI-^ANKU.     See  Satya-^Tata. 

TRI-/SIRAS.  '  Three-headed.'  i.  In  the  Yedas,  a  son  of 
Twash/ri;  also  called  Yiswa-riipa.  2.  Fever  personified  as  a 
demon  with  three  heads,  typical  of  the  tliree  stages  of  heat,  cold, 
and  sweating.  3.  Kuvera,  god  of  wealth.  4.  An  Asura  killed 
by  Yishwu.     5.  A  son  or  a  friend  of  Ravawa  killed  by  Rama. 

TRI-^tJLA.      '  A  trident.'     The  trident  of  ,Siva. 

TRITA,  TRITA  APTYA.  A  minor  deity  mentioned  occa- 
sionally in  the  ii%-veda,  and  generally  in  some  relation  to  Indra. 
Thus  "  Indra  broke  through  the  defences  of  Yala,  as  did  Trita 
through  the  coverings  (of  the  well)."  In  explanation  of  this  and 
similar  allusions,  a  legend  is  told  by  the  commentator  to  the 
effect,  that  Ekata,  Dwita,  and  Trita  (first,  second,  and  third), 
were  three  men  produced  in  water  by  Agni,  for  the  purpose  of 
rubbing  off  the  remains  of  an  oblation  of  clarified  butter.  Agni 
threw  the  cinders  of  the  offerings  into  water,  and  from  them 
sprang  the  three  brothers,  who,  from  their  origin  in  water  (aj?), 
were  called  Aptyas.  Trita  w^ent  one  day  to  draw  water  from  a 
well  and  fell  into  it.     The  Asuras  then  heaped  coverings  over 


322  TRITSUS—TRYARUNA. 

the  mouth  of  it  to  prevent  his  getting  out,  but  he  broke  through 
them  with  ease.  The  Nitl-manjari  tells  the  story  differently. 
Ekata,  Dwita,  and  Trita  were  travelling  in  a  desert  and  suffered 
from  thirst.  They  came  to  a  well  from  which  Trita  drew  water 
and  gave  it  to  his  brothers.  In  order  to  appropriate  his  pro- 
perty the  two  brothers  threw  him  into  the  well,  placed  a  cart- 
wheel over  it,  and  there  left  him.  Trita  prayed  earnestly  to  the 
gods,  and  with  their  help  he  escaped. 

Ti?/TSUS.  A  people  frequently  mentioned  in  the  Yeda. 
Saya?za  says  they  were  "  priests  who  were  Vasishifha's  disciples." 
Vasish/ha  himself  is  said  to  have  belonged  to  the  tribe. 

TRI-YEiYl.  '  The  triple  braid.'  A  name  of  Prayaga.  It  is 
so  called  because  the  Ganges  and  Jumna  here  unite,  and  the 
Saraswati  is  suppased  to  join  them  by  an  underground  channel 

TRI-YIKKAMA.  A  name  of  Yish/iu  used  in  the  itig-veda, 
and  referring  to  three  steps  or  paces  which  he  is  represented  as 
taking.  These  steps,  according  to  the  opinion  of  a  commentator, 
are  "the  three  periods  of  the  sun's  course, — his  rising,  culminating, 
and  setting. "  An  old  commentator  says, ' '  Yislmu  stepped  by  sepa- 
rate strides  over  the  whole  universe.  In  three  places  he  planted 
his  step,  one  step  on  the  earth,  a  second  in  the  atmosphere,  and 
a  third  in  the  sky,  in  the  successive  forms  of  Agni,  Yayu,  and 
Surya."  The  great  commentator  Saya?ia,  a  comparatively  modern 
A\Titer,  understands  these  steps  as  being  the  three  steps  of  Yishnu 
in  the  Yamana  or  dwarf  incarnation,  and  no  doubt  they  were 
the  origin  of  this  fiction. 

TRYAMBAKA.  '  Three-eyed,'  or  '  Having  three  wives  or 
sisters.'  i.  A  name  of  /Siva.  2.  One  of  the  Rudras.  3.  Name 
of  one  of  the  twelve  great  Lingas.     See  Linga. 

TRYARUYA.  A  king,  son  of  Trivrishan,  of  the  race  of 
Ikshwaku.  He  was  riding  in  a  chariot  which  Yrisa,  his  puro- 
hita  or  family  priest,  was  driving.  The  vehicle  passed  over  and 
killed  a  Brahman  boy,  and  a  question  arose  as  to  who  was 
responsible  for  the  death.  The  question  was  referred  to  an 
assembly  of  the  Ikshwiikus,  and  they  decided  it  against  Yri.sa. 
The  purohit  by  his  prayers  then  restored  the  boy  to  life,  and 
being  very  angry  with  them  for  what  he  deemed  partiality,  "  fire 
henceforth  ceased  to  perforui  its  functions  in  their  dwellings, 
and  the  cooking  of  their  food  and  other  offices  ceased."  The 
Ikshwakus   appeased    him,    and    upon  his  prayers   the   use  of 


TUKHARAS—TWASHTRI.  323 

fire  was  restored  to  them.  This  story  is  told  by  Sayawa  in 
elucidation  of  a  Yedic  allusion,  and  he  quotes  the  /Satyayana 
Brahma?ia  as  the  authority. 

TUKIIARAS.  A  northern  tribe  from  whom  Tukharistan 
obtained  its  name.  They  are  probably  the  tribe  of  /S'akas,  by 
whom  Bactria  was  taken  from  the  Greeks.  They  are  also  called 
Tusharas. 

TULADHARA,  A  trading  Vaisya  mentioned  in  the  Maha- 
bharata  as  very  virtuous  and  learned,  to  whom  Jajali,  an 
arrogant  Brahman,  was  sent  by  a  voice  from  the  sky  to  learn 
wisdom. 

TULUNGA.  Tuluva,  or  the  country  where  the  Tulu  lan- 
guage is  spoken,  on  the  western  coast  below  Goa. 

TUMBURU.     Name  of  a  Gandharva.     See  Viradha. 

TUA7)A.  A  demon  slain  by  Nahusha,  the  son  of  Ayus. 
He  had  a  son  named  Vituw^ia,  who  was  killed  by  Bhagavati 
(Durga). 

TURANGA-VAKTRA.    '  Horse-faced  people.'  See  Kinnaras. 

TURUSHKAS.  Turks;  the  people  of  Turkistan.  The 
Indo-Scythians,  who,  under  Kanishka  and  other  kings  of  the 
race,  held  Northern  India. 

TURYA^A,  TURYA^U.  Son  of  Yayati  by  DevaySni.  He 
refused  to  bear  the  curse  of  premature  decrepitude  passed  upon 
his  father,  and  so  his  father  cursed  him  that  his  posterity  should 
"  not  possess  dominion."  His  father  gave  him  a  part  of  his 
kingdom,  but  after  some  generations,  his  line  merged  into  that 
of  his  brother  Puru,  who  bore  for  a  time  the  curse  passed  upon 
his  father. 

TUSHARA.     See  Tukhara. 

TUSHITAS.  A  ga?ia  or  class  of  subordinate  deities,  thirty- 
six  in  number,  but  sometimes  reduced  to  twelve,  and  identified 
with  the  Adityas. 

TWASH Ti?/.  In  the  i?zg-veda  this  deity  is  the  ideal  artist, 
the  divine  artisan,  the  most  skilful  of  workmen,  who  is  versed 
in  all  wonderful  and  admirable  contrivances,  and  corresponds  in 
many  respects  with  Hephaistos  and  Yulcan.  He  sharpens  and 
carries  the  great  iron  axe,  and  he  forges  the  thunderbolts  of 
Indra.  He  is  the  beautiful,  skilful  worker,  the  omniform,  the 
archetype  of  all  forms,  the  vivifier  and  the  bestower  of  long  life. 
He  imparts  generative  power  and  bestows  offspring.     He  forms 


324  TWASHTRI—UDA  YANA. 

husband  and  wife  for  each  other,  even  from  the  womb.  He 
develops  the  seminal  germ  in  the  womb,  and  is  the  shaper  of 
all  forms,  human  and  animal.  He  has  generated  a  strong  man, 
a  lover  of  the  gods,  a  swift  horse,  and  has  created  the  wdiole 
world.  As  the  >S'atapatha  Brahma?ia  expresses  it,  "  He  has  pro- 
duced and  nourishes  a  great  variety  of  creatures  ;  all  worlds  (or 
beings)  are  his,  and  are  known  to  him  ;  he  has  given  to  heaven 
and  earth  and  to  all  things  their  forms."  He  created  Brahmanas- 
pati  above  all  creatures,  and  generated  Agni  along  with  heaven 
and  earth,  the  waters  and  the  Bh?-igus.  He  is  master  of  the 
universe,  the  first-born  protector  and  leader,  and  knows  the 
region  of  the  gods.  He  is  supplicated  to  nourish  the  worshipper 
and  protect  his  sacrifice.  He  is  the  bestower  of  blessings,  and 
is  possessed  of  abundant  wealth,  and  grants  prosperity.  He  is 
asked,  like  other  gods,  to  take  pleasure  in  the  hymns  of  his 
worshippers  and  to  grant  them  riches.  He  is  associated  with 
the  iiibhus,  and  is  represented  as  sometimes  envying  and  some- 
times admiring  their  skill  He  is  represented  as  being  occa- 
sionally in  a  state  of  hostihty  w^ith  Indra,  and  he  had  a  son 
named  Yiswa-riipa  (omniform)  or  Tri-siras,  who  had  three  heads, 
six  eyes,  and  three  mouths,  who  was  especially  obnoxious  to 
Indra,  and  was  slain  by  him.  He  had  a  daughter,  Sara?iyu, 
whom  he  married  to  Vivaswat,  and  she  was  the  mother  of  the 
Aswins.  In  the  Purawas  Twashi!?'i  is  identified  with  Viswa- 
karman,  the  artisan  of  the  gods,  and  sometimes  also  with  Praja- 
pati.  One  of  the  Adityas  and  one  of  the  Rudras  bear  this  name, 
as  also  did  a  prince  descended  from  Bharata. 

UCHCHAIiT-iSEAVAS.  The  model  horse.  The  white 
horse  of  Indra,  produced  at  the  churning  of  the  ocean.  It  is 
fed  on  ambrosia,  and  is  held  to  be  the  king  of  horses. 

TJCHCHHISHTA.  The  remains  of  a  sacrifice,  to  which 
divine  powers  are  ascribed  by  the  i^ig-veda. 

UDAYA-GIRI  PAEVATA.  The  eastern  mountain  from 
behind  which  the  sun  rises. 

UDAYANA.  I.  A  prince  of  the  Lunar  race,  and  son  of  Sahas- 
ranika,  who  is  the  hero  of  a  popular  story.  He  was  king  of 
A^atsa,  and  is  commonly  called  Yatsa-raja.  His  capital  was 
Kausiimbi.  Yasava-dattii,  princess  of  Ujjayini,  saw  him  in  a 
dream  and  fell  in  love  with  him.  He  was  decoyed  to  that  city, 
and  there  kept  in  captivity  by  the  king,  Cha?Wasena ;  but  when 


UDDHA  VA-UPANISHADS.  325 

he  was  set  at  liberty  by  the  minister,  he  carried  off  Vasava-datta 
from  her  father  and  a  rival  suitor.      2.  A  name  of  Agastya. 

UDDHA Y A.  The  friend  and  counsellor  of  KnsliTia.  Ac- 
cording to  some  he  was  Knsh?za's  cousin,  being  son  of  Deva- 
bhaija,  the  brother  of  Vasu-deva.  He  was  also  called  Pavana- 
vyadhi. 

UDGATJ?/.  A  priest  whose  duty  it  is  to  chaunt  the  prayers 
or  hymns  from  the  Sama-veda. 

UDKANKA.     Haris-chandra's  aerial  city.     See  Saubha. 

UGRA.  A  name  of  Rudra,  or  of  one  of  his  manifestations. 
See  Rudra. 

UGRASENA.  A  king  of  Mathura,  husband  of  Karm,  and 
father  of  Kansa  and  Devaka.  He  was  deposed  by  Kansa,  but 
K?'?sh?za,  after  killing  the  latter,  restored  Ugrasena  to  the  tlirone. 
See  Kansa. 

UJJAYAlSri.  The  Greek  0^j^v?j  and  the  modern  Oujein  or 
Ujjein.  It  was  the  capital  of  Yikramaditya  and  one  of  the 
seven  sacred  cities.  Hindu  geographers  calculate  their  longitude 
from  it,  making  it  their  first  meridian. 

ULIJIvA.  '  An  owl '  Son  of  Kitava.  He  was  king  of  a 
country  and  people  of  the  same  name.  He  was  an  ally  of  the 
Kauravas,  and  acted  as  their  envoy  to  the  PawcZavas. 

ULUPl.  A  daughter  of  Kauravya,  Raja  of  the  !N"agas, 
with  whom  Arjuna  contracted  a  kind  of  marriage.  She  was 
nurse  to  her  step-son,  Babhru-vahana,  and  had  great  influence 
over  him.  Accordins^  to  the  Yish?iu  Pura/ia  she  had  a  son 
named  Iravat. 

TJMA.  'Light.'  A  name  of  the  consort  of  iS'iva.  The 
earliest  known  mention  of  the  name  is  in  the  Kena  IJpanishad, 
where  she  appears  as  a  mediatrix  between  Brahma  and  the  other 
gods,  and  seems  to  be  identified  with  Yach.     See  Devi. 

UMA-PATI.     '  Husband  of  Uma,'  that  is  to  say,  ^S'iva. 

UPANISHADS.  'Esoteric  doctrine.'  The  third  division 
of  the  Yedas  attached  to  the  Brahmana  portion,  and  forming 
part  of  the  ^S'ruti  or  revealed  word.  The  Upanishads  are  generally 
written  in  prose  with  interspersed  verses,  but  some  are  wholly  in 
verse.  There  are  about  150  of  these  works,  probably  even  more. 
They  are  of  later  date  than  the  BrahmaTzas,  but  it  is  thought  that 
the  oldest  may  date  as  far  back  as  the  sixth  century  b.c.  The 
object  of  these  treatises  is  to  ascertain  the  mystic  sense  of  the 


326  UPANISHADS-  UP  A-  VEDAS. 

text  of  the  Veda,  and  so  they  enter  into  such  abstruse  questions 
as  the  orgin  of  the  universe,  the  nature  of  the  deity,  the  nature 
of  soul,  and  the  connection  of  mind  and  matter.  Thus  they  con- 
tain the  beginnings  of  that  metaphysical  inquiry  which  ended 
in  the  fuU  development  of  Hindu  pliilosophy.  The  Upanishads 
have  "  one  remarkable  peculiarity,  the  total  absence  of  any 
Bralimanical  exclusiveness  in  their  doctrine.  They  are  evidently 
later  than  the  older  Sanhitas  and  Brahmawas,  but  they  breathe 
an  entirely  different  spirit,  a  freedom  of  thought  unknown  in 
any  earlier  work  except  the  i?ig-veda  hymns  themselves.  The 
great  teachers  of  the  higher  knowledge  and  Brahmans  are  con- 
tinually represented  as  going  to  Kshatriya  kings  to  become  their 
pupils." — Professor  Cornell.  The  i?/g-veda  has  the  Upanishad 
called  Aitareya  attached  to  the  Aitareya  BrahmaTza.  The 
Taittiriya  Sanhita  of  the  Yajur  has  an  Upanishad  of  the  same 
name.  The  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  has  the  Isa,  and  attached  to 
the  iS'atapatha  Brahma??a  it  has  the  B?-ihad  Ara?iyaka,  which  is 
the  most  important  of  them.  The  Sama-veda  has  the  Kena  and 
Chhandogya.  All  these  have  been  translated  into  English.  The 
Atharva-veda  has  the  Ka/ha,  Prasna,  Muw^Zaka,  Mandukya,  and 
others,  altogether  fifty-two  in  number.  These  are  the  most  im- 
portant of  the  Upanishads.  Many  of  the  Upanishads  have  been 
l^rinted,  and  several  of  them  translated  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica, 
and  by  Foley.  There  is  a  catalogue  by  Miiller  in  the  Zeitschrift 
des  D.  M.  G.,  vol.  xix. 

UPAPLAVYA.     Matsya,  the  capital  of  the  king  of  Vira/a. 

UPA-PURAiVAS.  Secondary  or  subordinate  Pura?ias.  See 
PuraTia. 

UPARICHARA.  A  Yasu  or  demigod,  who,  according  to  the 
Maha-bharata,  became  king  of  Chedi  by  command  of  Indra.  He 
had  five  sons  by  his  wife ;  and  by  an  Apsaras,  named  Adrika, 
condemned  to  live  on  earth  in  the  form  of  a  fish,  he  had  a  son 
named  Matsya  (fish),  and  a  daughter,  Satya-vatI,  who  was  the 
mother  of  Yyasa. 

UPAaSRUTI.  a  supernatural  voice  which  is  heard  at  night 
revealing  the  secrets  of  the  future. 

UPASUNDA.  A  Daitya,  son  of  Nisunda,  brother  of  Sunda, 
and  father  of  Muka.      See  Sunda. 

UPA- VEDAS.  Subordinate  or  inferior  Yedas.  These  are 
sciences  which  have  no  connection  whatever  with  the  Svuti  or 


UPENDRA—USHAS.  327 

revealed  Yeda.  They  are  four  in  number  —  (i.)  Ayur-veda, 
medicine;  (2.)  Gandharva-veda,  music  and  dancing;  (3.)  Dha- 
nur-veda,  archery,  military  science;  (4.)  Sthapatya-veda,  archi- 
tecture. 

TJPENDKA.     A  title  given  to  Iv?-tsh7ia  by  Indra. 

URAGAS.     The  ISTagas  or  serpents  inhabiting  Patala. 

tJRMILA.  Daughter  of  Janaka,  sister  of  Sita,  wife  of  Laksli- 
mawa,  and  mother  of  Gandharvi  Somada. 

URVA.   Father  of  ^ichika  and  grandfather  of  Janiad-agni. 

UEYA/S'L  A  celestial  nymph,  mentioned  first  in  the  Big- 
veda.  The  sight  of  her  beauty  is  said  to  have  caused  the  gene- 
ration, in  a  peculiar  way,  of  the  sages  Agastya  and  Yasish/ha  by 
jNIitra  and  Yaru?ia.  A  verse  says,  "  And  thou,  0  Yasish/ha,  art 
a  son  of  Mitra  and  Yaruwa."  She  roused  the  anger  of  these  two 
deities  and  incurred  their  curse,  through  which  she  came  to 
live  upon  the  earth,  and  became  the  wife  or  mistress  of  Purii- 
ravas.  The  story  of  her  amour  with  Purii-ravas  is  first  told  in 
the  >S'atapatha  Era,hmawa.  The  loves  of  Purii-ravas,  theYikrama 
or  hero,  and  of  Urvasi,  the  nymph,  are  the  subject  of  Kali- 
dasa's  drama  called  Yikramorvasi.     See  Puru-ravas. 

U/S'ANAS.  I.  The  planet  Yenus  or  its  regent,  also  called 
^ukra  (q.v.).      2.  Author  of  a  Dharma-sastra  or  law-book. 

USHA.  A  Daitya  princess,  daughter  of  Ba?2a  and  grand- 
daughter of  Bali.  She  is  called  also  Priti-jusha.  She  fell  in 
love  with  a  prince  whom  she  saw  in  a  dream,  and  was  anxious 
to  know  if  there  were  such  a  person.  Her  favourite  companion, 
Chitra-lekha,  drew  the  portraits  of  many  gods  and  men,  but 
Uslia's  choice  fell  upon  Aniruddha,  son  of  Pradyumna  and 
grandson  of  Kfish?ia.  Chitra-lekha,  by  her  magic  power,  brought 
Aniruddha  to  Usha.  Her  father,  on  hearing  of  the  youth's 
being  in  the  palace,  endeavoured  to  kill  him,  but  he  defended 
himself  successfully.  Bawa,  however,  kept  Aniruddha,  "binding 
him  in  serpent  bonds."  Kn'sh??a,  Pradyumna,  and  Bala-rama 
went  to  the  rescue ;  and  although  BaTza  was  supported  by  /S'iva 
and  by  Skanda,  god  of  war,  his  party  was  defeated,  and  Aniruddha 
was  carried  back  to  Dwaraka  with  his  wife  tJsha. 

USHAS.  The  dawn,  the  ^uJ;  of  the  Greeks  and  Aurora  of 
the  Latins.  She  is  the  daughter  of  heaven  and  sister  of  the 
Adityas.  This  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  myths  of  the  Yedas, 
and  is  enveloped  in  poetry.     Uslias  is  the  friend  of  men,  she  smiles 


328  USHMAPAS-  UTTAMA  UJAS. 

like  a  young  wife,  she  is  the  daughter  of  the  sky,  she  goes  to 
every  house,  she  thinks  of  the  dwellings  of  men,  she  does  not 
despise  the  small  or  the  great,  she  brings  wealth ;  she  is  always 
the  same,  immortal,  divine,  age  cannot  touch  her ;  she  is  the 
young  goddess,  but  she  makes  men  grow  old.  "  All  this,"  adds 
Max  Miiller,  "  may  be  simply  allegorical  language.  But  the 
transition  from  Devi,  '  the  bright,'  to  Devi,  the  goddess,  is  so 
easy ;  the  daughter  of  the  sky  assumes  so  readily  the  same  per- 
sonality which  is  given  to  the  sky,  Dyaus,  her  father,  that  we  can 
only  guess  whether,  in  every  passage,  the  poet  is  speaking  of  a 
bright  apparition  or  of  a  bright  goddess,  of  a  natural  vision  or  a 
visible  deity. "    She  is  called  Aliana  and  Dyotana,  '  the  illumer. ' 

USHMAPAS.     The  Pitr/s  or  a  class  of  Pitns  (q.v.). 

TJ>S'IJ.  Mentioned  in  the  it/g-veda  as  the  mother  of  Kak- 
shivat.  A  female  servant  of  the  queen  of  the  Kalinga  Raja. 
The  king  desired  his  queen  to  submit  to  the  embraces  of  the 
sage  Dirgha-tamas,  in  order  that  he  might  beget  a  son.  The 
queen  substituted  her  bondmaid  Uiij.  The  sage,  cognisant  of 
the  deception,  sanctified  Usij,  and  begat  upon  her  a  son,  Kak- 
shivat,  who,  through  his  affiliation  by  the  king,  was  a  Kshatriya, 
but,  as  the  son  of  Dirgha-tamas,  was  a  Brahman.  This  story  is 
told  in  the  Maha-bharata  and  some  of  the  Pura/^as. 

UTATHYA.  A  Brahman  of  the  race  of  Angiras,  who 
married  Bhadra,  daughter  of  Soma,  a  woman  of  great  beauty. 
The  god  Yaru?ia,  who  had  formerly  been  enamoured  of  her,  car- 
ried her  off  from  Utathya's  hermitage,  and  would  not  give  her 
up  to  Xarada,  who  was  sent  to  bring  her  back.  Utathya,  greatly 
enraged,  drank  up  all  the  sea,  still  VaruTia  would  not  let  her  go. 
At  the  desire  of  Utathya,  the  lake  of  Varuwa  was  then  dried  up 
and  the  ocean  swept  away.  The  saint  then  addressed  himself  to 
the  countries  and  to  the  river  : — "  SaraswatI,  disappear  into  the 
deserts,  and  let  this  land,  deserted  by  thee,  become  impure." 
"  After  the  country  had  become  dried  up,  Varu7?a  submitted 
himself  to  Utathya  and  brought  back  Bhadra.  Tlie  sage  was 
pleased  to  get  back  his  wife,  and  released  both  the  world  and 
VaruT^a  from  their  sufferinfj;s." 

UTKALA.  The  modern  Orissa.  It  gives  its  name  to  one  of 
the  five  northern  nations  of  Bnlhmans.     See  Bra,hman. 

UTTAjMAUJAS.  a  warrior  of  great  strength,  and  an  ally 
of  the  Pa7i(iavas. 


UTTANA-PAD—VACH.  329 

UTTAXA-PAD.  'Outstretched,  supine.'  In  tlie  Yedas,  a 
peculiar  creative  source  from  which  the  earth  sprang.  Su})- 
posed  to  refer  to  the  posture  of  a  woman  in  parturition. 

UTTAXA-PADA.  A  son  of  Manu  and  /S'ata-rupa.  By  his 
wife  Su-nrita  he  had  four  sons,  Dhruva,  Kirtiman,  Ayushman, 
and  Yasu.  Some  of  the  Pura?zas  gave  him  another  wife,  Su-ruchi, 
and  a  son,  Uttama.     Bee  Dhruva. 

UTTAEA  (mas.),  UTTARA  (fern.).  A  son  and  daughter  of 
the  Raja  of  Yira/a.  Uttara  was  killed  in  battle  by  /Salya.  The 
daughter  married  Abhimanyu,  son  of  Arjuna. 

UTTARA-KURU.  A  region  lying  far  to  the  north.  {Bee 
Jambu-dwipa.)     (Plural.)    The  inhabitants  of  this  region. 

UTTARA  MiMANSA.   A  school  of  philosophy.    See  Darsana. 

UTTARA-NAISHADA-CHARITA.  A  poem  on  the  life 
of  Nala,  king  of  Kishada,  written  about  the  year  1000  a.d.  by 
/S'ri  Harsha,  a  celebrated  sceptical  philosopher.  It  has  been 
printed  in  the  Bihllotheca  Indica. 

UTTARA-RAMA-CHARITA.  '  The  later  chronicle  of  Rama. 
A  drama  by  Bhava-bhiiti  on  the  latter  part  of  Rama's  life.  The 
second  part  of  King  Rama,  as  the  Maha-vira-charita  is  the  first. 
The  drama  is  based  on  the  Uttara  Ka?i(ia  of  the  Rrimaya?ia, 
and  quotes  two  or  three  verses  from  that  poem.  It  was  pro- 
bably written  about  the  beginning  of  the  eighth  century.  It  has 
been  translated  in  blank  verse  by  Wilson,  and  more  literally  by 
Professor  C.  H.  Tawney.     There  are  several  editions  of  the  text. 

YA.     A  name  of  YaruTza  ;  also  name  of  his  dwelling. 

YACH.  '  Speech.'  In  the  i^ig-veda,  Yach  appears  to  be  the 
personification  of  speech  by  whom  knowledge  was  communicated 
to  man.  Thus  she  is  said  to  have  "  entered  into  the  i^^'shis," 
and  to  make  wdiom  she  loves  terrible  and  intelligent,  a  priest 
and  a  itishi.  She  was  "  generated  by  the  gods,"  and  is  called 
"  the  divine  Yach,"  "  queen  of  the  gods,"  and  she  is  described 
as  "the  melodious  cow  who  milked  forth  sustenance  and  water," 
"who  yields  us  nourishment  and  sustenance."  The  Brahmawas 
associate  her  with  Prajapati  in  the  work  of  creation.  In  the 
Taittirlya  BrahmaTZ-a  she  is  called  "  the  mother  of  the  Yedas," 
and  "  the  wife  of  Indra,  who  contains  within  herself  all  worlds." 
In  the  5'atapatha  Brahmawa  she  is  represented  as  entering  into 
a  sexual  connection  with  Prajapati,  who,  "  being  desirous  of 
creating,   connected  himself  with  various  spouses,"  and  among 


330  VACH—VAHANA, 

them,  "  through  his  mind,  with  Vach,"  from  whom  "he  created 
the  waters ; "  or,  as  this  last  sentence  is  differently  translated, 
"  He  created  the  waters  from  the  world  [in  the  form]  of  speech 
(Vach)."  In  the  Kathaka  Ui^anishad  this  idea  is  more  distinctly- 
formulated  : — "  Prajripati  was  this  universe.  Yach  was  a  second 
to  him.  He  associated  sexually  with  her ;  she  became  pregnant ; 
she  departed  from  him ;  she  produced  these  creatures ;  she  again 
entered  into  Prajapati." 

The  Aitareya  Brahma?ia  and  the  ^Satapatha  Brahma?ia  have  a 
story  of  the  Gandharvas  having  stolen  the  soma  juice,  or,  as  one 
calls  it,  "  King  Soma,"  and  that  as  the  Gandharvas  were  fond  of 
women,  Yach  was,  at  her  own  suggestion,  "turned  into  a  female" 
by  the  gods  and  ii/shis,  and  went  to  recover  it  from  them. 

In  the  Atharva-veda  she  is  identified  with  Yiraj,  and  is  the 
daughter  of  Kama  (desire).  "  That  daughter  of  thine,  0  Kama, 
is  called  the  cow,  she  whom  sages  denominate  Yach- Yiraj." 

The  Maha-bharata  also  calls  her  "  the  mother  of  the  Yedas," 
and  says,  "  A  voice  derived  from  Brahma  entered  into  the  ears 
of  them  all ;  the  celestial  Saraswati  was  then  produced  from  the 
heavens."  Here  and  "  in  the  later  mythology,  Saraswati  was 
identified  with  Yach,  and  became  under  different  names  the 
spouse  of  Brahma  and  the  goddess  of  Avisdom  and  eloquence,  and 
is  invoked  as  a  muse,"  generally  under  the  name  of  Saraswati, 
but  sometimes  as  Yach. 

The  Bhagavata  Purawa  recognises  her  as  "  the  slender  and 
enchanting  daughter  "  of  Brahma,  for  whom  he  had  a  passion, 
and  from  whom  mankind  was  produced,  that  is  the  female  Yiraj. 
{See  Yiraj  and  >S'ata-rripa.)  Saraswati,  as  wife  of  Brahma  and 
goddess  of  wisdom,  represents  perhaps  the  union  of  power  and 
intelligence  which  was  supposed  to  operate  in  the  work  of  crea- 
tion. According  to  the  Padma  Purawa,  Yach  was  daughter  of 
Daksha,  wife  of  Ka^yapa,  and  mother  of  the  Gandharvas  and 
Apsarases. 

YADAYA,  YAZ)AYANALA  Tlie  submarine  fire  which 
"  devours  the  water  of  the  ocean,"  causing  it  to  throw  off  the 
vapours  which  are  condensed  into  rain  and  snow.  The  word  is 
also  written  YacZava  and  BacZava.     See  Aurva. 

YAHANA.  'A  vehicle.'  Most  of  the  gods  are  represented  as 
having  animals  as  their  vjlhanas.  Brahma  has  tlie  Hansa,  swan 
or  goose ;  Yish/m  has  Garuf/a,  half  eagle,  half  man ;  /S'iva,  the 


VAHNI—VAIROCHANA.  331 

"bull  iN^andi ;  India,  an  elephant ;  Yama,  a  buffalo  ;  Karttikeya, 
a  peacock  ;  Kama-deva,  the  marine  monster  Makara,  or  a  parrot ; 
Agni,  a  ram ;  VaruTia,  a  fish ;  Ganesa,  a  rat ;  Vayu,  an  antelope ; 
/Sani,  or  Saturn,  a  vulture  ;  Durga,  a  tiger. 

VAHNI     Fire.     See  Agni. 

YAHUKA.  '  Charioteer.'  A  name  and  office  assumed  by 
Nala  in  his  time  of  disguise. 

YAIBHOJAS.  The  Maha-bharata  says,  "  The  descendants  of 
Druhyu  are  the  Yaibhojas."  "A  people  unacquainted  with  the 
use  of  cars  or  beasts  of  burthen,  and  who  travel  on  rafts  ;  they 
have  no  kings." — Wilson. 

YAIBHEAJA.  A  celestial  grove ;  the  grove  of  the  gods  on 
IVIount  Suparswa,  west  of  Meru. 

YAIDARBHA.  Belonging  to  the  country  of  Yidarbha  or 
Birar.     The  people  of  that  country. 

YAIDEHA.  Belonging  to  the  country  of  Yideha  or  Tirhoot, 
&c.  The  king  or  the  people  of  the  country.  Janaka  was  called 
Yaideha  and  Sita  was  Yaidehi. 

YAIDYA-NATHA.  '  Lord  of  physicians.'  A  title  of  ^iva. 
!Name  of  one  of  the  twelve  great  Lingas.     See  Linga. 

YAIJAYAXTA.     The  palace  or  the  banner  of  Indra. 

YAIJAYANTl.  i.  The  necklace  of  Yish^iu,  composed  of  five 
precious  gems,  pearl,  ruby,  emerald,  sapphire,  and  diamond;  it  "  is 
the  aggregate  of  the  five  elemental  rudiments."  2.  A  law-book 
current  in  the  south.  It  is  a  commentary  by  ISTanda  PaTZtZita  on 
the  Yishmi  Smriti. 

YAIKAETTANA.  A  name  of  Kar?^a  from  his  putative 
father,  Yikarttana,  the  sun. 

YAIKUNTHA.  The  paradise  of  Yishmi,  sometimes  de- 
scribed as  on  Mount  Meru,  and  at  others  as  in  the  Northern 
Ocean.  It  is  also  called  Yaibhra.  Yish?iu  liimself  is  sometimes 
designated  by  this  term. 

YAIXATEYA.     A  name  of  Yishwu's  bird  Garui?a. 

YAIRAJ.     Manu  the  son  of  Yiraj. 

YAIRAJAS.  Semi-divine  beings  or  Manes  unconsumable  by 
fire,  who  dwell  in  Tapo-loka,  but  are  capable  of  translation  to 
Satya-loka.  The  Kasi-kha?i6Za  explains  this  term  as  the  Manes 
of  "ascetics,  mendicants,  anchorets,  and  penitents,  who  have 
completed  a  course  of  rigorous  austerities."     See  Pitris. 

YAIROCHANA.     A  name  of  Bali. 


332  VAISALI—VAJRA. 

VAIaS'ALI  a  city  founded  by  Yi^ala,  son  of  T7-/;^abindu. 
This  is  "  a  city  of  considerable  renown  in  Indian  tradition,  but 
its  site  is  a  subject  of  some  uncertainty."  It  was  a  celebrated 
place  among  the  Buddliists,  and  would  seem  to  have  been  situated 
on  the  left  bank  of  the  Ganges.  General  Cunningham  places 
it  about  27  miles  north  of  Patna.  It  is  frequently  confounded 
with  Yisala,  i.e.,  Ujjayini. 

VAIaS'A^SIPAYAXA.  a  celebrated  sage  who  was  the  original 
teacher  of  the  Black  Yajur-veda.  He  was  a  pupil  of  the  great 
Yyasa,  from  whom  he  learned  the  Maha-bharata,  which  he  after- 
wards recited  to  King  Janamejaya  at  a  festival.  The  Hari-vansa 
is  also  represented  as  having  been  communicated  by  him. 

YAI/SESHIKA.  The  Atomic  school  of  philosophy.  See 
Darsana. 

YAIaSTRAYAI^A.     Patronymic  of  Kuvera. 

YALS'WAjS'ARA.  a  name  by  which  Agni  is  occasionally 
known  in  the  it/g- veda. 

YAIaSYA.  The  third  or  trading  and  agricultural  caste.  See 
Yarna, 

YAITAN'A  StJTEA.  The  ritual  of  the  Atharva-veda.  The 
text  has  been  published  by  Dr.  Garbe. 

YAITARAYI.  '  (The  river)  to  be  crossed,'  that  is,  the  river 
of  hell,  which  must  be  crossed  before  the  infernal  regions  can 
be  entered.  This  river  is  described  as  being  filled  with  blood, 
ordure,  and  all  sorts  of  filth,  and  to  run  with  great  impetuosity. 
A  second  river  stated  by  the  Maha-bharata  to  be  in  the  country 
of  the  Kalingas  ;  it  must  be  the  river  of  the  same  name  (vulg. 
"  Byeturnee  ")  somewhat  higher  up  in  Cuttack. 

YAIYASWATA.  Name  of  the  seventh  Manu ;  he  was  son 
of  Siirya  and  father  of  Ikshwaku,  the  founder  of  the  Solar  race 
of  kings. 

YAJASANEYI-SANHITA.  The  body  of  hymns  forming 
the  "VYliite  Yajur-veda.     See  Yeda. 

YAJIjN".     a  priest  of  the  Wliite  Yajur-veda. 

YAJRA.  I.  The  thunderbolt  of  Indra,  said  to  have  been 
made  of  the  bones  of  the  Eh\\i  Dadlilchi.  It  is  a  circular 
weapon,  with  a  hole  in  the  centre,  according  to  some,  but  others 
represent  it  as  consisting  of  two  transverse  bars.  It  has  many 
names: — Asani,  Abhrottha,  'sky-born;'  Bahu-dara,  'much  cleav- 
ing;' Bliidira  or  Chhidaka,  'the  splitter;'  Dambholi  and  Jasuri, 


VAJRA-NABHA—VAMA-DEVA.  333 

Mestriictive;'  Hradin,  'roaring;'  Kulisa,  'axe; '  Pavi,  'pointed;' 
Phena-vahin,  'foam-bearing;  Sha^-kona,  'hexagon;'  6'amblia and 
Swaru.  2.  Son  of  Aniriiddlia.  His  mother  is  sometimes  said 
to  be  Aniruddlia's  wife  Su-bhadra,  and  at  others  the  Daitya 
princess  Usha.  K?ishwa  just  before  his  death  made  him  king 
over  the  Yadavas  at  Indra-prastha.     See  the  next. 

VAJEA-NABHA.  The  celebrated  chakra  (discus)  of  Krishwa. 
According  to  the  Maha-bharata  it  was  given  to  him  by  Agni  for 
his  assistance  in  defeating  Indra  and  burning  the  Kha?i(iava  forest. 

VAKA.  '  A  crane.'  A  great  Asura  who  lived  near  the  city 
of  Eka-chakra,  and  forced  the  Kiija  of  the  place  to  send  him 
daily  a  large  quantity  of  provisions,  which  he  devoured,  and 
not  only  the  provisions,  but  the  men  who  carried  them.  Under 
the  directions  of  KuntI,  her  son  Bliima  took  the  provisions,  and 
when  the  demon  struck  him,  a  terrific  combat  followed ;  each 
one  tore  up  trees  by  the  roots  and  belaboured  the  other,  till 
Bliima  seized  the  demon  by  the  legs  and  tore  him  asunder. 
Kuvera  is  sometimes  called  by  this  name. 

VALA-KHILYAS.  i.  Eleven  hymns  of  an  apocryphal  or 
peculiar  character  interpolated  in  the  /^ig-veda.  2.  "  Pigmy 
sages  no  bigger  than  a  joint  of  the  thumb,  chaste,  pious,  resplen- 
dent as  the  rays  of  the  sun."  So  described  by  the  Vish?iu 
Pura72a,  which  says  that  they  were  brought  forth  by  Samnati 
(humility),  wife  of  Kratu,  and  were  60,000  in  number.  They  are 
able  to  fly  swifter  than  birds.  The  it/g-veda  says  that  they  sprang 
from  the  hairs  of  Prajiipati  (Brahma).  They  are  the  guards  of 
the  chariot  of  the  sun.  They  are  also  called  Kharwas.  Wilson 
says  "  they  are  not  improbably  connected  with  the  character  of 
Daumling,  Thaumlin,  Tamlane,  Tom-a-lyn,  or  Tom  Thumb." 

VALMlKI.  The  author  of  the  Eamaya??a,  which  he  in  Yedic 
phrase  is  said  to  have  "seen."  He  himself  is  represented  as 
taking  part  in  some  of  the  scenes  he  describes.  He  received 
the  banished  Sita  into  his  hermitage  at  Chitra-ku/a,  and  edu- 
cated her  twin  sons  Ku5a  and  Lava.  "  Tradition  has  marked  a 
hill  in  the  district  of  Banda  in  Bundlekand  as  his  abode."  The 
invention  of  the  sloka  is  attributed  to  him,  but  it  cannot  be  his, 
because  the  metre  is  found  in  the  Yedas. 

YAMACHARlS.    Followers  of  the  left-hand  sect.    See  Tantra. 

YAMA-DEYA.  i.  A  Yedic  i?ishi,  author  of  many  hymns. 
In  one  of  his  hymns  he  represents  himself  as  speaking  before  his 


334  VAMANA—VANSA. 

birth,  saying,  "  Let  me  not  come  forth  by  this  path,  for  it  is 
difficult  (of  issue)  :  let  me  come  forth  obliquely  from  the  side." 
SayaTza,  the  commentator,  says  in  exj^lanation,  "  The  Rk\\i 
Vama-deva,  whilst  yet  in  the  womb,  was  reluctant  to  be  born  in 
the  usual  manner,  and  resolved  to  come  into  the  world  tlirough 
his  mother's  side.  Aware  of  his  purpose,  the  mother  prayed  to 
Aditi,  who  thereupon  came  with  her  son  Indra  to  expostulate 
with  the  jRishi."  [This  story  accords  with  that  told  by  the 
Buddhists  of  the  birth  of  Buddha.]  In  the  same  hymn  Vama- 
deva  says,  "  In  extreme  destitution  I  have  cooked  the  entrails  of 
a  dog,"  and  Manu  cites  this  to  show  that  a  man  is  not  rendered 
impure  even  by  eating  the  flesh  of  dogs  for  the  preservation  of 
his  life.  In  another  hymn  he  says,  "  As  a  hawk  I  came  forth 
with  speed  ; "  and  a  commentator  explains,  "  Having  assumed 
the  form  of  a  hawk,  he  came  forth  from  the  womb  by  the  power 
of  Yoga,  for  he  is  considered  to  have  been  endowed  with  divine 
knowlege  from  the  period  of  his  conception."  2.  A  Vedic  sage 
mentioned  in  the  Maha-bharata  as  possessor  of  two  horses  of 
marvellous  speed  called  Yamyas.  3.  A  name  of  >S'iva ;  also  of 
one  of  the  Rudras. 

YAM  ANA.  The  dwarf  incarnation  of  Yish?iu.  See  Ava- 
tara. 

YAMAXA  PURAA^A.  "That  in  which  the  four-faced 
Brahma  taught  the  three  objects  of  existence,  as  subservient  to 
the  greatness  of  Tri-vikrama  (Yishwu),  which  treats  also  of  the 
^iva  kalpa,  and  which  consists  of  10,000  stanzas,  is  called  the 
Yamana  Purawa."  It  contains  an  account  of  the  dwarf  incarna- 
tion of  Yish?m,  and  "extends  to  about  7000  stanzas,  but  its 
contents  scarcely  establish  its  claim  to  the  character  of  a  Purawa." 
"  It  is  of  a  more  tolerant  character  than  the  (other)  Purri7^as,  and 
divides  its  homage  impartially  between  iSiva  and  Yishwu  with 
tolerable  impartiality.  It  has  not  the  air  of  any  antiquity,  and 
its  compilation  may  have  amused  the  leisure  of  some  Brrdiman 
of  Benares  three  or  four  centuries  ago." — Wilson. 

YAXA-PRASTHA  'A  dweller  in  the  worlds.'  A  Brahman 
in  the  third  stage  of  his  religious  life,  passing  his  time  as  an 
anchorite  in  the  wood?      See  Brfdiman. 

YANA-CHARAS  (mas.),  YAKE- CHARTS  (fem.).  Wan- 
derers of  the  woods.     Fauns,  Dryads,  or  sylvan  guardians. 

YAN/S'A.    A  race  or  familv.     Lists  of  the  ii'/shis  or  successive 


VANSA-BRAHMANA—VARKSHI.  335 

teachers  of  the  Vedas  which  are  found  attached  to  some  of  the 
Brahma?ias  are  called  Vansas. 

VANaS'A-BRAHMATVA.  The  eighth  Brahma?ia  of  the  Sama- 
veda.     It  has  been  edited  by  BurnelL 

VAPUSHMAT.  A  man  who  killed  King  Marutta  of  the 
Solar  race.  Dama,  son  or  grandson  of  Marutta,  in  retaliation 
killed  Vapushmat.  With  his  blood  he  made  the  funeral  offer- 
ings to  the  Manes  of  Marutta,  and  with  the  flesh  he  fed  the 
Brahmans  who  were  of  Rakshasa  descent. 

YARA-DA.  '  Bestower  of  boons.'  A  name  of  Devi,  also  of 
Saraswati. 

VARAHA.     The  boar  incarnation  of  Yish/iu.     See  Avatara. 

VARAHA-KALPA.  The  present  kalpa  or  year  of  Brahma. 
See  Kalpa. 

VARAHA  MIHIRA.  An  astronomer  who  was  one  of  "  the 
nine  gems"  of  the  court  of  Yikramaditya.  {See  Nava-ratna.) 
He  was  author  of  Brihat-sanhita  and  Brihaj-jataka.  His  death 
is  placed  in  *Saka  509  (a.d.  587). 

VARAHA  PURAVA.  "That  in  which  the  glory  of  the 
great  Varaha  is  predominant,  as  it  was  revealed  to  Earth  by 
Vishwu,  in  connexion,  wise  Munis,  with  the  Manava  kalpa,  and 
which  contains  24,000  verses,  is  called  the  Varrdia  PuraTza  \ " 
but  this  description  differs  so  from  the  Pura?za  which  bears  the 
name  in  the  present  day,  that  Wilson  doubts  its  applying  to  it. 
The  known  work  "  is  narrated  by  Vish?iu  as  Varaha,  or  in  the 
boar  incarnation,  to  the  personified  Earth.  Its  extent,  how- 
ever, is  not  half  that  specified,  little  exceeding  10,000  stanzas. 
It  furnishes  also  itself  evidence  of  the  prior  currency  of  some 
other  work  similarly  denominated."  "  It  may  perhaps  be 
referred  to  the  early  part  of  the  twelfth  century." 

VARAVASi.     The  sacred  city  of  Benares  ;  also  called  KasT. 

VARAVAVATA.  The  city  in  which  the  Paw/avas  dwelt  in 
exile. 

VARARUCHI.  A  grammarian  who  is  generally  supposed  to 
be  one  with  Katyayana  (q.v.).  There  was  another  Vararuchi  who 
was  one  of  "  the  nine  gems  "  at  the  court  of  Vikramaditya. 

VARDDHA-KSHATRl.     A  patronymic  of  Jayad-ratha. 

VARKSHl.  Daughter  of  a  sage,  who  is  instanced  in  the 
Maha-bharata  as  being  a  virtuous  woman,  and  wife  of  ten 
husbands. 


336  VARNA— VARUNA. 

YARA^A.  '  Class  or  caste.'  The  Cliatiir-varwa,  or  four  castes, 
as  found  established  in  the  code  of  Manu,  are — 

1.  Brahman.  The  sacerdotal  and  learned  class,  the  members 
of  which  may  be,  but  are  not  necessarily  priests. 

2.  Kshatriya.     The  regal  and  warrior  caste. 

3.  Yaisya.     Trading  and  agricultural  caste. 

4.  >S'udra.  Servile  caste,  whose  duty  is  to  serve  the  other 
three. 

The  first  three  castes  were  called  dwi-ja,  "  twice  born  or  rege- 
nerate," from  their  being  entitled  to  investiture  with  the  sacred 
thread  which  effects  a  second  birth.  The  Brahmans  maintain 
that  their  caste  alone  remains,  that  the  other  three  have  been 
lost  or  degraded,  and  it  is  generally  believed  that  there  are  no 
pure  Kshatriyas  or  Yai-syas  now  existing.  The  numerous  castes 
which  have  sprung  up  from  the  intercourse  of  people  of  different 
castes  or  from  other  causes  are  called  Yarwa-sankara,   'mixed 

castes. ' 

YARSHA.     A   region.     I^ine   varshas   are    enumerated    as 

situated  between  the  great  mountain  ranges  of  the  earth  : — (i.) 

Bharata-varsha,    India ;    (2.)    Kim-purusha   or   Kin-nara ;    (3.) 

Hari;     (4.)    Ramyaka ;    (5.)  Hiraw-maya;    (6.)     Uttara-kuru ; 

(7.)  Ilav?'ita  ;  (8.)  Bhadraswa  ;  (9.)  Ketu-mala. 

YARSHiVEYA.  A  name  of  KrisliTia  as  a  descendant  of 
Y?*ish7il     Name  of  King  Nala's  charioteer. 

YARTTIKAS.  Supplementary  rules  or  notes  to  the  gram- 
mar of  Pardni  by  later  grammarians,  as  Katyayana,  Patanjali, 
&c.  Katyayana  is  the  chief  of  these  annotators,  and  is  called 
Yiirttika-kara,  'the  annotator.' 

YARUYA.  Similar  to  Ohoavdg.  '  The  universal  encom- 
passer,  the  all-embracer.'  One  of  the  oldest  of  the  Yedic  deities, 
a  personification  of  the  all-investing  sky,  the  maker  and  up- 
holder of  heaven  and  earth.  As  such  he  is  king  of  the  universe, 
king  of  gods  and  men,  possessor  of  illimitable  knowledge,  the 
supreme  deity  to  whom  especial  honour  is  due.  He  is  often 
associated  with  Mitra,  he  being  the  ruler  of  the  night  and  Mitra 
of  the  day  ;  but  his  name  frequently  occurs  alone,  that  of  Mitra 
only  seldom.  In  later  times  he  was  chief  among  the  lower 
celestial  deities  called  Adityas,  and  later  still  he  became  a  sort  of 
Neptune,  a  god  of  the  seas  and  rivers,  who  rides  upon  the 
;Makara.     This  character  he  stiU  retains.     His  sign  is  a  fish. 


VARUNA. 


337 


He  is  regent  of  the  west  quarter  and  of  one  of  the  Nakshatras 
or  lunar  mansions.  According  to  the  Maha-bharata  he  was  son 
of  Kardama  and  father  of  Puslikara.  The  INIaha-bharata  relates 
that  he  carried  off  Bhadra,  the  wife  of  Utathya  (q.v.),  a  Brah- 
man, but  Utathya  obhged  him  to  submit  and  restore  her.  He 
was  in  a  way  the  father  of  the  sage  Yasish/ha  (q.v.).  In  the 
Vedas,  Yaru?2a  is  not  specially  connected  with  water,  but  there 
are  passages  in  which  he  is  associated  with  the  element  of  water 
both  in  the  atmosphere  and  on  the  earth,  in  such  a  way  as  may 
account  for  the  character  and  functions  ascribed  to  him  in  the 
later  mythology. 

Dr.  Muir  thus  sums  up  in  the  words  of  the  hymns  the  func- 
tions and  attributes  of  Yaru^ia  : — "  The  grandest  cosmical  func- 
tions are  ascribed  to  Yaru?za.  Possessed  of  illimitable  resources 
(or  knowledge),  this  divine  being  has  meted  out  (or  fashioned) 
and  upholds  heaven  and  earth,  he  dwells  in  all  worlds  as  sove- 
reign ruler  ;  indeed  the  three  worlds  are  embraced  within  him. 
He  made  the  golden  and  revolving  sun  to  shine  in  the  firma- 
ment. The  wind  which  resounds  through  the  atmosphere  is  his 
breath.  He  has  opened  out  boundless  paths  for  the  sun,  and 
has  hollowed  out  channels  for  the  rivers,  which  flow  bv  his  com- 
mand.  By  his  wonderful  contrivance  the  rivers  pour  out  their 
waters  into  the  one  ocean  but  never  fill  it.  His  ordinances  are 
fixed  and  unassailable.  They  rest  on  him  unshaken  as  on  a 
mountain.  Through  the  operation  (of  his  laws)  the  moon  walks 
in  brightness,  and  the  stars  vfhich  appear  in  the  nightly  sky 
mysteriously  vanish  in  daylight.  Neither  the  birds  flying  in 
the  air,  nor  the  rivers  in  their  ceaseless  flow  can  attain  a  know- 
ledge, of  his  power  or  his  wrath.  His  messengers  behold  both 
worlds.  He  knows  the  flight  of  birds  in  the  sky,  the  paths  of 
ships  on  the  ocean,  the  course  of  the  far-travelling  wind,  and  be- 
holds all  the  things  that  have  been  or  shall  be  done.  ]^o  creature 
can  even  wink  A^dthout  him.  He  witnesses  men's  truth  and  false- 
hood. He  instructs  the  it/shi  Yasish/ha  in  mysteries ;  but  his 
secrets  and  those  of  Mitra  are  not  to  be  revealed  to  the  foolish." 
"  He  has  unlimited  control  over  the  destinies  of  mankind.  He 
has  a  hundred  thousand  remedies,  and  is  suj^plicated  to  show  his 
wide  and  deep  benevolence  and  drive  away  evil  and  sin,  to  untie 
sin  like  a  rope  and  remove  it.  He  is  entreated  not  to  steal  away, 
but  to  prolong  Hfe,  and  to  spare  the  suppliant  who  daily  trans- 

Y 


338  VARUNA—VARUNANI. 

gresses  his  laws.  In  many  places  mention  is  made  of  the  bonds 
or  nooses  with  which  he  seizes  and  punishes  transgressors. 
Mitra  and  Yariuza  conjointly  are  spoken  of  in  one  passage  as 
heing  barriers  against  falsehood,  furnished  with  many  nooses, 
which  the  hostile  mortal  cannot  surmount  ;  and,  in  another 
place,  Indra  and  Varu?ia  are  described  as  binding  with  bonds 
not  formed  of  rojDe.  On  the  other  hand,  Yaruwa  is  said  to  be 
gracious  even  to  him  who  has  committed  sin.  He  is  the  wise 
guardian  of  immortality,  and  a  hope  is  held  out  that  he  and 
Yama,  reigning  in  blessedness,  shall  be  beheld  in  the  next  world 
by  the  righteous." 

"  The  attributes  and  functions  ascribed  to  Yaruwa  impart  to 
his  character  a  moral  elevation  and  sanctity  far  surpassing  that 
attributed  to  any  other  Yedic  deity." 

The  correspondence  of  Yaruwa  with  Ouranos  has  been  already 
noted,  but  "  the  parallel  will  not  hold  in  all  points.  There  is 
not  in  the  Yedic  mythology  any  special  relation  between 
YaruT^a  and  P?*ithivi  (the  earth)  as  husband  and  wife,  as  there 
is  between  Ouranos  and  Gaia  in  the  theogony  of  Hesiod ;  nor  is 
Yaru?^a  represented  in  the  Yeda,  as  Ouranos  is  by  the  Greek 
poet,  as  the  progenitor  of  Dyaus  (Zeus),  except  in  the  general 
way  in  which  he  is  said  to  have  formed  and  to  preserve  heaven 
and  earth"  (Muir^s  Texts,  v.  58).  IManu  also  refers  to  Yaru?ia 
as  "binding  the  guilty  in  fatal  cords." 

In  the  Pura?ias,  Yaruwa  is  sovereign  of  the  waters,  and  one 
of  his  accompaniments  is  a  noose,  which  the  Yedic  deity  also 
carried  for  binding  offenders  :  this  is  called  Naga-pasa,  Pula- 
kanga,  orYiswa-jit.  His  favourite  resort  is  Pushpa-giri,  'flower 
mountain,'  and  his  city  Yasudha-nagara  or  Suklia.  He  also 
possesses  an  umbrella  impermeable  to  water,  formed  of  the  hood 
of  a  cobra,  and  called  Abhoga.  The  Yishmi  Pura?za  mentions 
an  incident  which  shows  a  curious  coincidence  between  Yaru?ia 
and  Neptune.  At  the  marriage  of  the  sage  ii'/chika,  Yaruwa 
supplied  him  with  the  thousand  fleet  white  horses  which  the 
bride's  father  had  demanded  of  him.  Yaru?ia  is  also  called 
Prachetas,  Ambu-raja,  Jala-pati,  Kesa,  '  lord  of  the  waters ; ' 
Ud-dama,  '  the  surrounder  ; '  Pri6\a-bh?7't,  '  tlie  noose-carrier  ; ' 
Yiloma,  Yari-loma,  '  watery  hair  ; '  Yada/i-pati,  '  king  of  aquatic 
animals.     His  son  is  named  Agasti. 

YARUA^ANI,  YAEUAL     Wife  of  Yaru?ia  and  goddess  of 


X 


VASA  VA-DA TTA—  VASISHTHA.  339 

wine.     She  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  tlie  churning  of  the 
ocean.     The  goddess  of  wine  is  also  called  Mada  and  Sura. 

VASANTA.     Spring  and  its  deified  personification. 

YASANTA-SENA.  The  heroine  of  the  drama  called  M?-ich- 
chhaka^i,  *  the  toy  cart. ' 

YASAYA-DATTA.  A  princess  of  Ujjayini,  who  is  the  heroine 
of  a  popular  story  by  Subandhu.  The  work  has  been  printed 
by  Dr.  F.  Hall  in  the  Bihliotheca  Indica.  He  considers  it  to  have 
been  written  early  in  the  seventh  century.     See  Udayana. 

YASISHTHA.  'Most  wealthy.'  A  celebrated  Yedic  sage 
to  whom  many  hymns  are  ascribed.  According  to  Manu  he 
was  one  of  the  seven  great  Bishis  and  of  the  ten  Prajapatis. 
There  was  a  special  rivalry  between  him  and  the  sage  Yiswa- 
mitra,  who  raised  himself  from  the  Kshatriya  to  the  Brahman 
caste.  Yasish/ha  was  the  possessor  of  a  "  cow  of  plenty,"  called 
NandinT,  who  had  the  power  of  granting  him  all  things  (vasu) 
he  desired,  hence  his  name.  A  law-book  is  attributed  to  him, 
or  to  another  of  the  same  name.  Though  Yasish/ha  is  classed 
among  the  Prajapatis  who  sprang  from  Brahma,  a  hymn  in  the 
iiig-veda  and  the  commentaries  thereon  assign  him  a  different 
origin,  or  rather  a  second  birth,  and  represent  him  and  the  sage 
Agastya  to  have  sprung  from  Mitra  and  YaruTza.  The  hymn  says, 
"  Thou,  0  Yasish/ha,  art  a  son  of  Mitra  and  Yavwna,  born  a  Brah- 
man from  the  soul  of  Urvasi.  All  the  gods  placed  in  the  vessel 
thee  the  drop  which  had  fallen  through  divine  contemplation." 
The  comment  on  this  hymn  says,  "When  these  two  Adityas 
(Mitra  and  Yaru?za)  beheld  the  Apsaras  Urvasi  at  a  sacrifice  their 
seed  fell  from  them.  ...  It  fell  on  many  places,  into  a  jar,  into 
water,  and  on  the  ground.  The  Muni  Yasish/ha  was  produced 
on  the  ground,  while  Agastya  was  born  in  the  jar." 

There  is  a  peculiar  hymn  attributed  to  Yasish/ha  in  the  Big- 
veda  (Wilson,  iv.  1 2 1 ),  beginning  "Protector  of  the  dwelling," 
which  the  commentators  explain  as  having  been  addressed  by 
him  to  a  house-dog  which  barked  as  he  entered  the  house  of 
YaruTza  by  night  to  obtain  food  after  a  three  days'  fast.  By  it 
the  dog  was  appeased  and  put  to  sleep,  "  wherefore  these  verses 
are  to  be  recited  on  similar  occasions  by  thieves  and  burglars." 

In  the  same  Yeda  and  in  the  Aitareya  Brahmawa,  Yasish/ha 
appears  as  the  family  priest  of  King  Sudas,  a  position  to  which 
his  rival  Yi^waniitra  aspired.     This  is  amplified  in  the  Maha- 


340  VASISHTHA. 

bliarata,  where  lie  is  not  the  priest  of  Siidas  but  of  his  son 
Kabnasha-pada,  who  bore  the  patronymic  Saudasa.  It  is  said 
that  his  rival  Viswamitra  was  jealous,  and  wished  to  have  this 
office  for  himself,  but  the  king  preferred  Yasish^ha.  Yasishifha 
had  a  hundred  sons,  the  eldest  of  Mdiom  Avas  named  iS'aktri. 
He,  meeting  the  king  in  the  road,  was  ordered  to  get  out  of  the 
way ;  but  he  civilly  replied  that  the  path  was  his,  for  by  the 
law  a  king  must  cede  the  way  to  a  Brahman.  The  king  struck 
him  with  a  whip,  and  he  retorted  by  cursing  the  king  to  be- 
come a  man-eater.  Viswamitra  was  present,  but  invisible,  and 
he  maliciously  commanded  a  man-devouring  Rakshasa  to  enter 
the  king.  So  the  king  became  a  man-eater,  and  his  first  victim 
was  >S'aktri.  The  same  fate  befell  all  the  hundred  sons,  and 
Vasish/ha's  grief  was  boundless.  He  endeavoured  to  destroy 
himself  in  various  ways.  He  cast  himself  from  the  top  of 
Mount  Meru,  but  the  rocks  he  fell  upon  were  like  cotton.  He 
passed  through  a  burning  forest  without  harm.  He  threw 
himself  into  the  sea  with  a  heavy  stone  tied  to  his  neck,  but  the 
waves  cast  him  on  dry  land.  He  plunged  into  a  river  swollen 
by  rain,  but  although  he  had  bound  his  arms  with  cords,  the 
stream  loosened  his  bonds  and  landed  him  unbound  (vijmsa)  on 
its  banks.  From  this  the  river  received  the  name  of  Vipasa 
(Byas).  He  threw  himself  into  another  river  full  of  alligators, 
but  the  river  rushed  away  in  a  hundred  directions,  and  was  con- 
sequently called  iS'ata-dru  (Sutlej).  Finding  that  he  could  not 
kill  himself,  he  returned  to  his  hermitage,  and  was  met  in  the 
wood  by  King  Kalmasha-pada,  who  was  about  to  devour  him, 
but  Vasish^ha  exorcised  him  and  delivered  him  from  the  curse 
he  had  borne  for  twelve  years.  The  sage  then  directed  the  king 
to  return  to  his  kingdom  and  pay  due  respect  to  Brahmans. 
Kalmasha-pada  begged  Yasish/ha  to  give  him  offspring.  He 
promised  to  do  so,  and  "  being  solicited  by  the  king  to  beget 
an  heir  to  the  throne,  the  queen  became  pregnant  by  him  and 
brought  forth  a  son  at  the  end  of  twelve  years." 

Another  legend  in  the  Maha-bharata  represents  Viswamitra 
as  commanding  the  river  Saras wati  to  bring  Vasish/ha,  so  that 
he  might  kill  him.  ]jy  direction  of  Vasish/ha  the  river  obeyed 
the  command,  but  on  approaching  Viswamitra,  who  stood  ready 
armed,  it  promptly  carried  away  A^asish/ha  in  another  direction. 

The    enmity  of  Vasish/ha   and  Viswamitra  comes  out  very 


VASISHTHA.  34  r 

strongly  in  the  Ramaya??a.  Yiswamitra  ruled  the  earth  for 
many  thousand  years  as  king,  but  he  coveted  the  wondrous  cow 
of  plenty  which  he  had  seen  at  Yasish/ha's  hermitage,  and 
attempted  to  take  her  away  by  force.  A  great  battle  followed 
between  the  hosts  of  King  Yiswamitra  and  the  warriors  pro- 
duced by  the  cow  to  support  her  master.  A  hundred  of  Yiswa- 
mitra's  sons  were  reduced  to  ashes  by  the  blast  of  Yasish/ha's 
mouth,  and  Yiswamitra  being  utterly  defeated,  he  abdicated  and 
retired  to  the  Himalaya.  The  two  met  again  after  an  interval 
and  fought  in  single  combat.  Yiswamitra  was  again  worsted  by 
the  Brahmiinical  power,  and  "  resolved  to  work  out  his  own  ele- 
vation to  the  Brahmanical  order,"  so  as  to  be  upon  an  equality 
with  his  rival.  He  accomplished  his  object  and  became  a  priest, 
and  Yasish/ha  suffered  from  his  power.  The  hundred  sons  of 
Yasish/ha  denounced  Yiswamitra  for  presuming,  though  a 
Ivshatriya,  to  act  as  a  priest.  This  so  incensed  Yiswamitra  that 
he  "  by  a  curse  doomed  the  sons  of  Yasish/ha  to  be  reduced  to 
ashes  and  reborn  as  degraded  outcasts  for  seven  hundred  births." 
Eventually,  "  Yasish/ha,  being  propitiated  by  the  gods,  became 
reconciled  to  Yiswamitra,  and  recognised  his  claim  to  all  the 
prerogatives  of  a  Brahman  itishi,  and  Yiswamitra  j^aid  all  hon- 
our to  Yasish/ha. 

A  legend  in  the  Yishwu  Purawa  represents  Yasish/ha  as  being 
requested  by  Nimi,  a  son  of  Ikshwaku,  to  officiate  at  a  sacrifice 
which  was  to  last  for  a  thousand  years.  The  sage  pleaded  a 
prior  engagement  to  Indra  for  five  hundred  years,  but  offered  to 
come  at  the  end  of  that  period.  The  king  made  no  remark, 
and  Yasish/ha,  taking  silence  as  assent,  returned  as  he  had 
proposed.  He  then  found  that  ]^imi  had  engaged  the  i^zshi 
Gautama  to  perform  the  sacrifice,  and  this  so  angered  him  that 
he  cursed  the  king  to  lose  his  corj)oreal  form.  Kimi  retorted 
the  curse,  and  in  consequence  "  the  vigour  of  Yasish/ha  entered 
into  the  vigour  of  jNIitra  and  Yaru72a.  Yasish/ha,  however, 
received  from  them  another  body  when  their  seed  had  fallen 
from  them  at  the  sight  of  Urvasi." 

In  the  Marka?w/eya  Purawa  he  appears  as  the  family  priest  of 
Haris-chandra.  He  was  so  incensed  at  the  treatment  shown  to 
that  monarch  by  A-^iswamitra,  that  he  cursed  that  sage  to  be 
transformed  into  a  crane.  His  adversary  retorted  by  dooming 
him  to  become  another  bird,  and  in  the  forms  of  two  monstrous 


342  VASISHTHA—VASU-DEVA, 

birds  tliey  fought  so  furiously  that  the  course  of  the  universe 
was  disturbed,  and  many  creatures  perished.  Brahma  at  lengtli 
put  an  end  to  the  conflict  by  restoring  them  to  their  natural 
forms  and  compelling  them  to  be  reconciled. 

According  to  the  Yishmi  Purawa,  Vasish/ha  had  for  wife 
Urja,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Daksha,  and  by  her  he  had  seven 
sons.  The  Bhagavata  Pura7za  gives  him  Arundhati  for  wife. 
The  Yishwu  Pura?za  also  makes  him  the  family  priest  "  of  the 
house  of  Ikshwaku  ;  "  and  he  was  not  only  contemporary  with 
Ikshwaku  himself,  but  with  his  descendants  down  to  the  sixty- 
first  generation.  "  Yasish/ha,  according  to  all  accounts  (says 
Dr.  Muir),  must  have  been  possessed  of  a  vitahty  altogether 
superhuman,"  for  it  appears  that  the  name  Yasish/ha  is  "  used 
not  to  denote  merely  a  person  belonging  to  a  family  so  called, 
but  to  represent  the  founder  of  the  family  himself  as  taking 
part  in  the  transactions  of  many  successive  ages." 

"It  is  clear  that  Yasishflia,  although  he  is  frequently  designated 
in  post-vedic  writings  as  a  Brahman,  was,  according  to  some 
authorities,  not  really  such  in  any  proper  sense  of  the  word,  as 
in  the  accounts  which  are  given  of  his  birth  he  is  declared  to 
have  been  either  a  mind-born  son  of  Brahma,  or  the  son  of 
Mitra  and  Yaruwa  and  the  Apsaras  Urvasi,  or  to  have  had  some 
other  supernatural  origin"  (3fidr,  i.  337).  Yasish/ha's  descen- 
dants are  called  Yasish/has  and  Yashkalas. 

YASTOSH-PATI.  '  House  protector.'  One  of  the  later  gods 
of  the  Yeda,  represented  as  springing  from  Brahma's  dalliance 
with  his  daughter.  He  was  the  protector  of  sacred  rites  and 
guardian  of  houses. 

YASU.  The  Yasus  are  a  class  of  deities,  eight  in  number, 
chiefly  known  as  attendants  upon  Indra.  They  seem  to  have 
been  in  Yedic  times  personifications  of  natural  phenomena. 
They  are  Apa  (water),  Dhruva  (pole-star).  Soma  (moon),  Dhara 
(earth),  Anila  (wind),  Anala  (fire),  Prabhasa  (dawn),  and  Pra- 
tyiisha  (light).  According  to  the  Ramaya^ia  they  were  children 
of  Aditi. 

YASU-DEYA.  Son  of  Sum,  of  the  Yadava  branch  of  the 
Lunar  race.  He  was  father  of  Krislma,  and  Kunti,  tlie  mother 
of  the  TrndaYQ,  princes,  was  his  sister.  He  married  seven 
daughters  of  Ahuka,  and  tlie  youngest  of  them,  Devaki,  was  the 
mother  of   Krishna.     After  the  death    of   Kr/sliTia  and  Bala- 


VASUDEVA—VAYU.  343 

riima  he  also  died,  and  four  of  his  wives  burnt  themselves  with 
his  corpse.  So  says  the  Mahri-bharata,  but  according  to  the 
Vislmu  Purawa  he  and  DevakT  and  Rohi?ii  burnt  themselves  at 
Dwaraka.  He  received  the  additional  name  of  Anaka-dundubhi, 
because  the  gods,  conscious  that  he  was  to  be  the  putative 
father  of  the  divine  Krish?2a,  sounded  the  drums  of  lieaven  at 
his  birth.     He  was  also  called  Bhu-kasyapa  and  Dundu,  '  drum.' 

VASU-DEVA.  A  name  of  K?'ish?za,  derived  from  that  of  his 
father,  Vasu-deva ;  but  as  that  is  incompatible  with  his  claims 
to  divinity,  the  Maha-bharata  explains  that  he  is  so  called  "  from 
his  dwelling  (vasandt)  in  all  beings,  from  his  issuing  as  a  Vasu 
from  a  divine  womb."  The  name  was  assumed  by  an  impostor 
named  Pau?zc/raka,  who  w^as  killed  by  Ivrz'shwa.    See  Pauw/raka. 

YASUKI.  King  of  the  Nagas  or  serpents  who  live  in  Patala. 
He  was  used  by  the  gods  and  Asuras  for  a  coil  round  the  moun- 
tain Mandara  at  the  churning  of  the  ocean.     See  ^S'esha. 

VASU-zS'EN'A.     A  name  of  Kar^za. 

VATA.  '  Wind. '  Generally  the  same  as  Vayu,  but  the 
name  is  sometimes  combined  in  the  Veda  with  that  of  Parjanya, 
and  Parjanya-vata  and  Vayu  are  then  mentioned  distinctively. 

VATAPI.  Vatapi  and  Ilwala,  two  Rakshasas,  sons  either  of 
Hrada  or  Viprachitti.  They  are  mentioned  in  the  Ramaya^ia 
as  dwelling  in  the  Da^zf/aka  forest.  Vatapi  assumed  the  form 
of  a  ram  which  was  offered  in  sacrifice  and  afterwards  eaten  by 
Brahmans.  Ilwala  then  called  ujDon  him  to  come  forth,  and 
accordingly  he  tore  his  way  out  of  the  stomachs  of  the  Brah- 
mans. He  tried  the  same  trick  upon  Agastya,  but  that  austere 
sage  ate  and  digested  him.  Ilwala,  as  before,  called  his  brother 
to  come  forth,  and  assaulted  the  sage,  who  told  him  that  his 
brother  would  never  return.  Then  Ilwala  was  burnt  up  by  fire 
from  the  eyes  of  Agastya.  The  Maha-bharata's  story  varies 
slightly. 

VATA-VASIK     '  Dwelling  in  fig-trees '  (vaia).     Yakshas. 

VATSA,  A^ATSA-RAJA.  King  of  Vatsa,  the  capital  of 
which  was  Kausambl.  A  title  of  the  prince  Udaj'ana.  There 
are  many  persons  named  Vatsa. 

VATSYAYANA.  A  sage  who  wrote  upon  erotic  subjects, 
and  was  author  of  the  Kama-sutras  and  Nyaya-bhasha.  He  is 
also  called  Malla-naga, 

VAYU.     *  Air,  wind.'     The  god  of  the  w^ind,  Eolus.     In  the 


344  VAVU—VEDA. 

Yedas  he  is  often  associated  with  Indra,  and  rides  in  the  same 
car  with  him,  Indra  being  the  charioteer.  The  chariot  has  a 
framework  of  gold  which  touches  the  sky,  and  is  drawn  by  a 
thousand  horses.  There  are  not  many  hymns  addressed  to  hiuL 
According  to  the  jSTirukta  there  are  three  gods  specially  con- 
nected with  each  other.  "  Agni,  whose  place  is  on  earth ; 
Yayu  or  Indra,  whose  place  is  in  the  air ;  and  Siirya,  whose 
place  is  in  the  heaven."  In  the  hymn  Purusha-siikta  Yayu  is 
said  to  have  sprung  from  the  breath  of  Purusha,  and  in  another 
hymn  he  is  called  the  son-in-law  of  Twash^ri.  He  is  regent  of 
the  north-west  quarter,  where  he  dwells. 

According  to  the  Yishvzu  PuraTia  he  is  king  of  the  Gandhar- 
vas.  The  Bhagavata  Purawa  relates  that  the  sage  Xarada  in- 
cited the  wind  to  break  down  the  summit  of  Mount  Meru.  He 
raised  a  terrible  storm  which  lasted  for  a  year,  but  Yish?iu's  bird, 
Garuf?a,  shielded  tlie  mountain  with  his  wings,  and  all  the 
blasts  of  the  wind-god  were  in  vain.  iSTarada  then  told  him 
to  attack  the  mountain  in  Garu<ia's  absence.  He  did  so,  and 
breaking  off  the  summit  of  the  mountain,  he  hurled  it  into  the 
sea,  where  it  became  the  island  of  Lanka  (Ceylon). 

Yayu  is  the  reputed  father  of  Bhima  and  of  Hanumat,  and  he 
is  said  to  have  made  the  hundred  dauo-hters  of  Kinf>-  Kusanabha 

o  o 

crooked  because  they  would  not  comply  with  his  licentious 
desires,  and  this  gave  the  name  Kanya-kubja,  '  hump-backed 
damsel,'  to  their  city. 

Other  names  of  Yayu  (wind)  are  Anila,  Marut,  Pavana  Yata, 
Gandha-vaha,  '  bearer  of  perfumes  ; '  Jala-kilntara,  *  "whose  gar- 
den is  water  ; '  Sada-gata,  Satata-ga,  *  ever  moving,'  &c. 

YAYU  PUKAYA.  "  The  Pura/ia  in  which  A^ayu  has  de- 
clared the  laws  of  duty,  in  connection  with  the  /Sweta  kalpa, 
and  which  comprises  the  Mahatmya  of  Kudra,  is  the  Yayu 
Pura?ia  ;  it  contains  twenty-four  thousand  verses."  jS^o  MS.  con- 
taining this  number  of  verses  has  yet  been  discovered,  but  there 
are  indications  of  the  work  being  imperfect.  The  PuraTia  is 
divided  into  four  sections,  the  first  begimiing  with  the  creation, 
and  the  last  treating  of  the  ages  to  come.  It  is  devoted  to  the 
praise  of  /S'iva,  and  is  connected  with  the  /S'iva  Puriij^a,  for  Avhen 
one  of  them  is  given  in  a  list  of  Purawas  the  other  is  omitted. 

YEDA.  Koot,  m/,  '  know.'  '  Divine  knowledge.'  The  Yedas 
are  the  holy  books  which  are  the  foundation  of  the  Hindu  reli- 


VEDA.  345 

gion.  They  consist  of  hymns  written  in  an  old  form  of  Sansk?-it, 
and  according  to  the  most  generally  received  opinion  they  were 
composed  between  1500  and  1000  b.c.  But  there  is  no  direct 
evidence  as  to  their  age,  and  opinions  about  it  vary  considerably. 
Some  scholars  have  thought  that  the  oldest  of  the  hymns  may 
be  carried  back  a  thousand  years  farther.  It  seems  likely  that 
some  of  the  hymns  were  composed  before  the  arrival  of  the 
Aryan  immigrants  in  India,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  hymns 
vary  greatly  in  age  and  spread  over  a  very  considerable  period. 

There  are  various  statements  as  to  the  origin  of  the  Yedas, 
One  is  that  the  hymns  emanated  like  breath  from  Brahma,  the 
soul  of  the  universe.  It  is  agreed  that  they  were  revealed  orally 
to  the  i^ishis  or  sages  whose  names  they  bear ;  and  hence  the 
whole  body  of  the  Veda  is  known  as  iSruti,  '  what  was  heard.' 

The  Yedas  are  now  four  in  number: — (i.)  Rig,  (2.)  Yajur, 
(3.)  Sama,  (4.)  Atharva ;  but  the  Atharva  is  of  comparatively 
modern  origin.  The  other  three  are  spoken  of  by  Manu  as  the 
"  three  Yedas,"  and  are  said  by  him  tothave  been  '^  milked  out, 
as  it  were,"  from  fire,  air,  and  the  sun.  In  reality  the  i?ig- veda 
is  the  Yeda,  the  original  work ;  for  the  Yajur  and  the  Sama  are 
merely  different  arrangements  of  its  hymns  for  special  purposes. 

Each  Yeda  is  divided  into  two  parts.  Mantra  and  BrahmaTia. 
The  Mantra,  or  '  instrument  of  conveying  thought,'  consists  of 
prayer  and  praise  embodied  in  the  metrical  hymns.  The  Brah- 
ma?ia,  a  collective  term  for  the  treatises  caUed  Brahma?zas,  is  of 
later  date  than  the  Mantra.  It  is  written  in  prose,  and  contains 
liturgical  and  ritualistic  glosses,  explanations,  and  applications  of 
the  hymns  illustrated  by  numerous  legends.  To  the  Brahma/ias 
are  added  the  Ara/^yakas  and  Upanishads,  mystical  treatises  in 
prose  and  verse,  which  speculate  upon  the  nature  of  spirit  and 
of  God,  and  exhibit  a  freedom  of  thought  and  speculation  which 
was  the  beginning  of  Hindu  philosophy.  All  the  Yedic  ^mtings 
are  classified  in  two  great  divisions,  exoteric  and  esoteric:  the 
Karma-ka?z<ia,  '  department  of  works,'  the  ceremonial ;  and  the 
Jnana-kam/a,  'department  of  knowledge.'  The  hymns  and  prayers 
of  the  Mantra  come  under  the  first,  the  philosophical  specula- 
tions of  the  Brahmanas,  and  especially  of  the  Upanishads,  under 
the  second  division.  All  are  alike  Svuii  or  revelation.  See 
Bra,hma7ia,  Upanishad,  &c. 

The  Mantra  or  metrical  portion  is  the  most  ancient,  and  the 


346  VEDA. 

Look  or  books  in  wliich  the  hymns  are  collected  are  called  San- 
liitas.  The  JR^g-veda  and  the  Sama-veda  have  each  one  Sanhita; 
the  Yajur-veda  has  two  Sanhitas. 

As  before  stated,  the  it/g-veda  is  the  original  Veda  from 
which  the  Yajur  and  Saman  are  almost  exclusively  derived.  It 
consists  of  1017  Siiktas  or  hymns,  or  with  eleven  additional 
hjTiins  called  Yalakhih^as  of  an  apocryphal  character,  1028. 
These  are  arranged  in  eight  xish/akas,  '  octaves,'  or  Kha??6?as, 
*  sections,'  which  are  again  subdivided  into  as  many  Adhyayas, 
'chapters,'  2006  Vargas  or  'classes,'  10,417  7i/ks  or  'verses,' 
and  153,826  Padas  or  'words.'  There  is  another  division,  which 
runs  on  concurrently  with  this  division,  in  ten  ]\Ia?Zf^alas, 
'  circles '  or  '  classes,'  and  85  Anuvakas  or  '  sections.'  The  total 
number  of  hymns  is  the  same  in  both  arrangements.  It  is  a 
generally  received  opinion  that  the  hymns  of  the  tenth  Mawf?ala 
are  later  in  date  than  the  others. 

A  few  hymns  of  the  i?/g-veda,  more  especially  some  of  the 
later  hymns  in  the  terfth  Ma?i6?ala,  appear  to  contain  some 
vague,  hazy  conception  of  one  Supreme  Being ;  but  as  a  whole 
they  are  addressed  directly  to  certain  personifications  of  the 
powers  of  nature,  which  personifications  were  worshipped  as 
deities  having  those  physical  powers  under  their  control.  From 
these  powers  the  Vedic  poets  invoked  prosperity  on  themselves 
and  their  flocks  ;  they  extolled  the  prowess  of  these  elemental 
powers  in  the  struggles  between  light  and  darkness,  warmth  and 
cold,  and  they  offered  up  joyous  praise  and  thanksgiving  for  the 
fruits  of  the  earth  and  personal  protection.  Chief  among  the 
deities  so  praised  and  worshipped  were  Agni,  Indra,  and  Surya. 
More  hymns  are  addressed  to  Agni  (Ignis),  'fire,'  than  to  any  other 
deity,  and  cliiefly  in  its  sacrificial  character,  though  it  receives 
honour  also  for  its  domestic  uses.  Indra  was  honoured  as  the 
god  of  the  atmosphere,  who  controlled  the  rains  and  the  dcAv, 
so  all-important  to  an  agricultural  people.  Srir3'a,  '  the  sun,' 
was  '  the  source  of  heat,'  but  he  shared  this  honour  with 
AcTii,  the  sun  bcincc  considered  a  celestial  fire.  Amono:  the 
most  ancient  of  the  myths  was  that  of  Dyaus-pitar,  '  heavenly 
father,'  the  regent  of  the  sky.  Others  Avere  Aditi,  '  the  infinite 
expanse;'  Varuwa  {OhooLvog),  'the  investing  sky,'  afterwards 
god  of  the  waters ;  Uslias  {n^g),  '  the  dawn,'  daughter  of  the 
sky ;  the  two  Aswins,  '  twin  sons  of  the  sun,'  ever  young  and 


VEDA.  2>A7 

handsome,  and  riding  in  a  golden  car  as  precursors  of  the 
dawn.  Pr/thivT,  '  the  broad  one,'  as  the  earth  was  called,  re- 
ceived honour  as  the  mother  of  all  beings.  There  were  also  the 
IMaruts  or  storm-gods,  personifications  of  the  wind,  the  especial 
foes  of  Vntra,  the  spirit  of  drought  and  ungenial  weather,  who 
was  in  constant  conflict  with  Indra ;  Rudra,  the  howling,  furious 
god,  who  ruled  the  tempest  and  the  storm ;  Yam  a,  the  god  of 
the  dead  and  judge  of  departed  spirits,  also  received  his  meed  of 
reverence  ;  last,  though  apparently  not  least  in  the  estimation  of 
the  Aryan  worshippers,  was  Soma,  the  personification  of  the  fer- 
mented juice  of  the  plant  so  named.  This  exhilarating  liquid 
was  alike  acceptable  to  the  gods  and  their  worshij)pers,  and  many 
hymns  are  addressed  to  it  as  a  deity. 

To  each  hymn  of  the  i?ig-veda  there  is  prefixed  the  name  of 
the  it/shi  to  whom  it  was  revealed,  as  Yasish/ha,  Yiswamitra, 
Bharadwaja,  and  many  others ;  and  these  sages  are  frequently 
spoken  of  as  authors  of  the  hymns  bearing  their  names.  It  is 
quite  unknown  when  the  hymns  were  first  committed  to  writing. 
They  were  transmitted  orally  from  generation  to  generation,  and 
continued  to  be  so  handed  down  even  after  they  had  been 
collected  and  arranged  by  Ivrish?za  Dwaipayana,  '  the  arranger,' 
The  oral  teaching  of  the  Yedas  produced  what  are  called  the 
/S'akhas  or  '  schools '  of  the  Yedas.  Different  learned  men,  or 
bodies  of  men,  became  famous  for  their  particular  versions  of 
the  text,  and  taught  these  versions  to  their  respective  pupils. 
These  difl'erent  versions  constitute  the  iSakhas  ;  they  present,  as 
might  be  expected,  many  verbal  variations,  but  no  very  material 
discrepancies. 

"  The  poetry  of  the  jR/g-veda,"  says  Professor  Cowell,  "  is 
remarkably  deficient  in  that  simplicity  and  natural  pathos  or 
sublimity  which  we  naturally  look  for  in  the  songs  of  an  early 
period  of  civilisation.  The  language  and  style  of  most  of  the 
hymns  is  singularly  artificial  .  .  .  Occasionally  we  meet  with 
fine  outbursts  of  poetry,  especially  in  the  hymns  addressed  to 
the  dawn,  but  these  are  never  long  sustained ;  and  as  a  rule  we 
find  few  grand  similes  or  metaphors."  A  similar  opinion  is 
expressed  by  Professor  AVilliams,  who  finds  them  "  to  abound 
more  in  puerile  ideas  than  in  striking  thoughts  and  lofty 
conceptions." 

The  Yajur  or  second  Yeda  is  composed  almost  exclusively  of 


348  VEDA. 

hymns  taken  from  the  Rig,  but  it  contains  some  prose  passages 
which  are  new.  Many  of  the  hymns  show  considerable  devia- 
tions from  the  original  text  of  the  Rig.  These  differences  may 
perhaps  be  attributable  either  to  an  original  difference  of  the 
traditional  text  or  to  modifications  required  by  the  ritualistic 
uses  of  the  Yajur.  The  Yajur-veda  is  the  priests'  office-book, 
arranged  in  a  liturgical  form  for  the  performance  of  sacrifices. 
As  the  manual  of  the  priesthood,  it  became  the  great  subject  of 
study,  and  it  has  a  great  number  of  different  /Sakhas  or  schools. 
It  has  two  Sanhitas,  one  called  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  the  other 
Yajasaneyi  Sanhita,  commonly  kno^vn  as  the  Black  and  AVhite 
Yajur,  Of  these,  the  former  is  the  more  ancient,  and  seems  to 
have  been  known  in  the  ihird  century  B.C.  These  Sanhitas 
contain  upon  the  whole  the  same  matter,  but  the  arrangement 
is  different.  The  "\AT-iite  Yajur  is  the  more  orderly  and  sys- 
tematic, and  it  contains  some  texts  which  are  not  in  the  Black. 

The  Sanhita  of  the  Taittiriya  or  Black  Yajur  is  arranged  in 
7  Kaw/as  or  books,  44  Prasnas  or  chapters,  651  Anuvakas  or 
sections,  and  219S  KaTic^ikas  or  pieces,  "  fift}^  words  as  a  rule 
forming  a  Ivr.TZ^ika."  The  Sanhita  of  the  Vajasaneyi  or  IMiite 
Yajur  is  in  40  Adhyayas  or  chapters,  303  Anuvakas,  and  1975 
Kawf/ikas. 

How  the  separation  into  two  Sanhitas  arose  has  not  been 
ascertained.  It  probably  originated  in  a  schism  led  by  the  sage 
Yajnawalkya ;  but  if  it  did  not,  it  produced  one,  and  the 
adherents  of  the  two  divisions  were  hostile  to  each  other  and 
quarrelled  like  men  of  different  creeds.  In  later  days  a  legend 
was  invented  to  account  for  the  division,  which  is  thus  given  by 
the  Yishmi  and  Yayu  Pura?zas  :  The  Yajur-veda,  in  twenty-seven 
branches  (AS'akhas),  was  taught  by  Yaisampayana  to  his  discipl(3 
Yajnawalkya.  Yaisampayana  had  the  misfortune  to  kill  his 
sister's  child  by  an  accidental  kick,  and  he  then  called  upon  his 
disciples  to  perform  the  appropriate  expiatory  penance.  Yajna- 
walkya refused  to  join  the  "  miserable  inefficient  Brfdimans," 
and  a  quarrel  ensued.  Tlie  teacher  called  upon  the  disciple  to 
give  up  all  that  he  had  learnt  from  him ;  and  the  disciple,  with 
the  same  quick  temper,  vomited  forth  tb.e  Yajur  texts  which  he 
had  accj[uired,  and  they  fell  upon  the  ground  stained  with  blood. 
The  other  pupils  were  turned  into  partridges  (Tittiri),  and  they 
picked  up  the   disgorged   texts ;  hence   the  part  of  the  Veda 


VEDA.  349 

wliicli  was  thus  acqiiircd  was  called  Taittiiiya  and  Black. 
Yajnawalkya  sorrowfully  departed,  and  by  the  performance  of 
severe  penances  induced  the  Sun  to  impart  to  him  those  Yajur 
texts  which  his  master  had  not  possessed.  The  Sun  then 
assumed  the  form  of  a  horse  (Yajin),  and  communicated  to  him 
the  desired  texts.  The  priests  of  this  portion  of  the  Veda  were 
called  Yajins,  while  the  Sanhita  itself  was  called  Yajasaneyi, 
and  also  AYliite  (or  bright),  because  it  was  revealed  by  the  sun. 
The  statement  that  Yajnawalkya  received  this  Yeda  from  the 
sun  is,  however,  earlier  than  the  Pura?ms,  for  it  is  mentioned  by 
the  grammarian  Katyayana.  A  more  reasonable  and  intelligible 
explanation  is,  that  Yajasaneyi  is  a  patronymic  of  Yajnawalkya, 
the  offspring  of  Yiijasani,  and  that  Taittirlya  is  derived  from 
Tittiri,  the  name  of  a  pupil  of  Yaska's.  Weber,  the  man  best 
acquainted  with  this  Yeda,  says,  "  However  absurd  this  legend 
(of  the  PuraTias)  may  be,  a  certain  amount  of  sense  lurks  beneath 
its  surface.  The  Black  Yajur  is,  in  fact,  a  motley  undigested 
jumble  of  different  pieces ;  and  I  am  myself  more  inclined  to 
derive  the  name  Taittirlya  from  the  variegated  partridge  (Tittiri) 
than  from  the  itislii  Tittiri."  Goldstlicker's  view  is,  that  the 
"  motley  character  of  the  Black  Yajur-veda  arises  from  the  cir- 
cumstance that  the  distinction  between  the  Mantra  and  Brah- 
ma?za  portions  is  not  so  clearly  established  in  it  as  in  the  other 
Yedas,  hymns  and  matter  properly  belonging  to  the  Brahma?ias 
being  there  intermixed.  This  defect  is  remedied  in  the  Wliite 
Yajur-veda,  and  it  points,  therefore,  to  a  period  when  the  mate- 
rial of  the  old  Yajur  was  brought  into  a  system  consonant  with 
prevalent  theories,  literary  and  ritualistic." 

The  Sama-veda  Sanhita  is  wholly  metrical.  It  contains  1549 
verses,  only  seventy-eight  of  which  have  not  been  traced  to  the 
-Rig-veda.  The  readings  of  the  text  in  this  Yeda  frequently 
differ,  like  those  of  the  Yajur,  from  the  text  as  found  in  the 
Pag,  and  Weber  considers  that  the  verses  "occurring  in  the  Sama 
Sanhita  generally  stamp  themselves  as  older  and  more  original 
by  the  greater  antiquity  of  their  grammatical  forms."  But 
this  opinion  is  disputed.  The  verses  of  the  Siima  have  been 
selected  and  arranged  for  the  purpose  of  being  chaunted  at  the 
sacrifices  or  offerings  of  the  Soma.  Many  of  the  invocations  are 
addressed  to  Soma,  some  to  Agni,  and  some  to  Indra.  The 
Mantra  or  metrical  part  of  the  Sama  is  poor  in  literary  and 


350  VEDA. 

historical  interest,  but  its  Bralimawas  and  the  other  literature 
belonging  to  it  are  full  and  important. 

There  were  different  sets  of  priests  for  each  of  the  three 
Vedas.  Those  whose  duty  it  was  to  recite  the  it/g-veda  were 
called  Hotris  or  Bahv?'ichas,  and  they  were  required  to  know  the 
whole  Yeda.  The  priests  of  the  Yajur,  who  muttered  its  formu- 
las in  a  peculiar  manner  at  sacrifices,  were  called  Adliwaryus,  and 
the  chaunters  of  the  verses  of  the  Saman  were  called  Udgat?-/s. 

The  Atharva-veda,  the  fourth  Yeda,  is  of  later  origin  than  the 
others.  This  is  acknowledged  by  the  Brahmans,  and  is  proved 
by  the  internal  evidence  of  the  book  itself.  It  is  supposed  to 
date  from  about  the  same  period  as  the  tenth  Ma?ic?ala  of  the 
i?ig-veda,  and  as  Manu  speaks  of  only  "  the  three  Yedas,"  the 
Atharva  could  hardly  have  been  acknowledged  in  his  time. 
Professor  Yliitney  thinks  its  contents  may  be  later  than  even 
the  tenth  Ma?zf?ala  of  the  Pdg,  although  these  two  "  stand  nearly 
connected  in  import  and  origin."  There  are  reasons  for  suppos- 
ing it  to  have  had  its  origin  among  the  Saindhavas  on  the  banks 
of  the  Indus.  One-sixth  of  the  whole  work  is  not  metrical, 
"  and  about  one-sixth  (of  the  hymns)  is  also  found  among  the 
hymns  of  the  jRig-veda,  and  mostly  in  the  tenth  book  of  the 
latter;  the  rest  is  peculiar  to  the  Atharva."  The  number  of  the 
hymns  is  about  760,  and  of  the  verses  about  6000.  Professor 
Whitney,  the  editor  of  the  Atharva,  speaks  of  it  thus  :  "As  to 
the  internal  character  of  the  Atharva  hymns,  it  may  be  said 
of  them,  as  of  the  tenth  book  of  the  Pdg,  that  they  are  pro- 
ductions of  another  and  a  later  period,  and  the  expressions  of  a 
different  spirit  from  that  of  the  earlier  hymns  in  the  other 
Yedas.  In  the  latter,  the  gods  are  approached  with  reverential 
awe  indeed,  but  with  love  and  confidence  also ;  a  worship  is 
paid  them  that  exalts  the  offerer  of  it ;  the  demons  embraced 
under  the  general  name  Kakshasa  are  objects  of  horror  whom 
the  gods  ward  off  and  destroy  ;  the  divinities  of  the  Atharva  are 
regarded  ratlier  with  a  kind  of  cringing  fear,  as  powers  whose 
wrath  is  to  be  deprecated  and  whose  favour  curried,  for  it  knows 
a  whole  host  of  imps  and  hobgoblins,  in  ranks  and  classes,  and 
addresses  itself  to  them  directly,  offering  them  homage  to  induce 
them  to  abstain  from  doing  harm.  The  ^lantra  prayer,  which 
in  the  older  Yeda  is  the  instrument  of  devotion,  is  here  rather 
the  tool  of  superstition  ;  it  wrings  from  the  unwilling  hands 


VEDA.  351 

of  the  gods  the  favours  which  of  old  their  good-will  to  men  in- 
duced them  to  grant,  or  by  simple  magical  power  obtains  the 
fulfilment  of  the  utterer's  wishes.  The  most  prominent  charac- 
teristic feature  of  the  Atharva  is  the  multitude  of  incantations 
which  it  contains ;  these  are  pronounced  either  by  the  person 
wdio  is  himself  to  be  benefited,  or  more  often  by  the  sorcerer 
for  him,  and  are  directed  to  the  procuring  of  the  greatest  variety 
of  desirable  ends ;  most  frequently  perhaps  long  life  or  recovery 
from  grievous  sickness  is  the  object  souglit ;  then  a  talisman, 
such  as  a  necklace,  is  sometimes  given,  or  in  very  numerous 
cases  some  plant  endowed  with  marvellous  virtues  is  to  be  the 
immediate  external  means  of  the  cure  ;  farther,  the  attainment 
of  wealth  or  power  is  aimed  at,  the  downfall  of  enemies,  success 
in  love  or  in  play,  the  removal  of  petty  pests,  and  so  on,  even 
down  to  the  growth  of  hair  on  a  bald  pate.  There  are  hymns, 
too,  in  which  a  single  rite  or  ceremony  is  taken  up  and  exalted, 
somewhat  in  the  same  strain  as  the  Soma  in  the  Pavamanya 
hymns  of  the  Rig.  Others  of  a  speculative  mystical  character 
are  not  wanting ;  yet  their  number  is  not  so  great  as  might 
naturally  be  ex.pected,  considering  the  development  which  the 
Hindu  religion  received  in  the  periods  following  after  that  of 
the  primitive  Veda.  It  seems  in  the  main  that  the  Atharva  is 
of  popular  rather  than  of  priestly  origin ;  that  in  making  the 
transition  from  the  Vedic  to  modern  times,  it  forms  an  inter- 
mediate step  rather  to  the  gross  idolatries  and  superstitions  of 
the  ignorant  mass  than  to  the  sublimated  Pantheism  of  the 
Erahmans."  Such  is  the  general  character  of  the  fourth  Veda, 
but  Max  Miiller  has  translated  a  hymn  in  his  Ancient  Sanshit 
Literature,  of  which  Professor  Wilson  said  in  the  Edinburgh 
Review,  "We  know  of  no  passage  in  Vedic  literature  which 
approaches  its  simple  sublimity."  This  hymn  is  addressed  to 
Varuwa,  "  the  great  one  who  rules  over  these  worlds,  and  be- 
holds all  as  if  he  were  close  by ;  who  sees  all  that  is  within  and 
beyond  heaven  and  earth,"  &c. 

This  Veda  is  also  called  the  Brahman  Veda,  "  because  it 
claims  to  be  the  Veda  for  the  chief  sacrificial  priest,  the  Brah- 
man." It  has  a  Brahma?ia  called  Gopa/ha  and  many  Upanishads. 
An  entirely  new  recension  of  this  Veda  has  lately  been  found 
in  Kashmir.  It  is  in  the  hands  of  Professor  Roth,  and  is 
believed  to  show  many  important  variations. 


352  VEDA-MATRI—  VEDANGAS, 

The  whole  of  the  ^ig-veda,  with  the  commentary  of  Saya?2a, 
has  been  magnificently  printed  in  six  large  quarto  vols,  under  the 
editorship  of  Max  Miiller,  at  the  expense  of  the  Governmetit  of 
India.  Editions  of  the  text  separately  in  the  Sanhita  and  in  the 
Pada  forms  have  been  published  by  him ;  also  another  edition 
with  the  Sanliita  and  Pada  texts  on  opposite  pages.  There  is  also 
a  complete  edition  of  the  text  in  Koman  characters  by  Aufrecht, 
and  a  portion  of  the  text  was  published  by  Roer  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Indica.  Dr.  Eosen  published  the  first  Ash/aka  of  the  text,  with 
a  Latin  translation,  in  1838.  Pour  volumes  of  Wilson's  incom- 
plete translation  have  appeared.  There  is  a  French  translation 
by  Langlois,  and  Max  Miiller  has  printed  a  critical  translation 
of  twelve  hvmns  to  the  Maruts.  There  are  other  translations  of 
portions.  Translations  by  Ludwig  and  by  Grassmann  have  also 
lately  appeared.  The  text,  with  an  English  and  Mara/hi  trans^ 
lation,  is  appearing  in  monthly  parts  at  Bombay. 

The  Sanhita  of  the  Black  Yajur-veda  has  been  published  by 
Roer  and  Cowell  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica.  The  '\Miite  has  been 
printed  by  Weber,  and  another  edition  has  been  published  in 
Calcutta. 

Of  the  Sama  Sanhita,  the  text  and  a  translation  have  been 
published  by  Dr.  Stevenson.  Benfey  has  also  jDublished  the 
text  with  a  German  translation  and  a  glossary ;  and  an  edition 
with  the  commentary  of  Saya/za  is  now  coming  out  in  the  Biblio- 
theca Indica  (vol.  i.). 

The  text  of  the  Atharva-veda  Sanhita  has  been  printed  by 
Roth  and  Whitney,  and  a  part  of  it  also  by  Aufrecht. 

VEDA-MATT^/.     '  Mother  of  the  Yedas.'     The  Gayatri. 

YEDANGAS.  (Veda  +  angas. )  'Members  of  the  Veda,'  The 
Shac/-angas  or  six  subjects  necessary  to  be  studied  for  the  reading, 
understanding,  and  proper  sacrificial  employment  of  the  Vedas : — 

1.  ^ikshd.  Phonetics  or  pronunciation,  embracing  accents, 
quantity,  and  euphony  in  general 

2.  Chhandas.     Metre. 

3.  Vydharana.  Grammar.  Said  to  be  represented  by  Pawini, 
but  rather  by  older  grammars  culminating  in  his  great  work. 

4.  Nirulda.  Etymology  or  glossary-,  represented  by  the  glos- 
sary of  Yaska. 

5.  Jyotisha.  Astronomy.  Such  knowledge  of  the  heavenly 
bodies  as  was  necessary  for  compiling  a  calendar  fixing  the  days 


VEDANTA—  VEDA  VA  Tl.  .         353 

and  hours  suitable  for  the  performance  of  Yedic  sacrifices  and 
ceremonies. 

6.  Kalpa.  Ceremonial.  Eules  for  applying  the  Yedas  to  the 
performance  of  sacrifices.  These  rules  are  generally  written  in 
the  form  of  Sutras  or  short  aphorisms,  and  so  they  are  known  as 
the  Ivalpa-siitras  or  /S'rauta-siitras. 

VEDANTA.   The  orthodox  school  of  philosophy.  See  Darsana. 

VEDANTA-PARIBHASHA.  A  modern  text-book  on  the 
Vedanta  philosophy. 

VEDANTA-SARA.  'Essence  of  the  Vedanta. '  A  short 
popular  work  on  the  Vedanta  philosoph}^  It  has  been  trans- 
lated by  Ballantyne,  and  also  by  Bbhtlingk,  Roer,  and  Frank. 

VEDANTA-SUTRA.  The  aphorisms  of  Badaraj'a^za  on  the 
Vedanta  philosophy.  They  are  commonly  called  Brahma-sutras, 
and  a  translation  under  that  name  by  the  Rev.  K.  M,  Banerjea 
is  progressing  in  the  Bihliotlieca  Indlca.  There  is  a  French 
translation  by  Foley. 

VEDARTHA-PRAKA/S'A.  '  Elucidation  of  the  meaning  of 
the  Veda.'  This  is  the  name  of  Saya?ia's  great  commentary  on 
the  i??g-veda.  Also  of  a  commentary  on  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita 
by  INIadhavacharya. 

VEDAVATI.  The  'vocal  daughter'  of  the  Hk\\i  Kusa-dhwaja, 
son  of  B?7'haspati.  When  Rava?za  was  passing  through  a  forest 
in  the  Himalaya  he  met  with  A-^edavati,  a  damsel  of  great  beauty 
dressed  in  ascetic  garb.  He  fell  in  love  and  tried  to  win  her. 
She  told  him  that  gods  and  Gandharvas  had  sought  to  woo  her, 
but  her  father  would  give  her  to  no  one  but  Vish?iu,  whom  he 
desired  for  his  son-in-law.  Provoked  at  this  resolution,  /Sam- 
bliu,  king  of  the  Daityas,  slew  her  father ;  but  she  remained 
firm  to  her  father's  wish,  and  practised  austerities  to  gain  A-^ishTiu 
for  her  spouse.  Nothing  daunted,  Rava?m  urgently  pressed  his 
suit,  and  boasted  that  he  was  superior  to  Vish?m.  He  then 
touched  her  hair  with  the  tip  of  his  finger.  This  greatly 
incensed  her,  and  she  forthwith  cut  off  her  hair,  and  said  she 
would  enter  into  the  fire  before  his  eyes,  adding,  "  Since  I  have 
been  insulted  in  the  forest  by  thee  who  art  wicked-hearted,  I  shall 
be  born  again  for  thy  destruction. "  So  she  entered  the  blazing  fire, 
and  celestial  flowers  fell  all  around.  It  was  she  who  was  born 
again  as  Sita,  and  was  the  moving  cause  of  Rava?2a's  death, 
though  Rama  was  the  agent. — Muir's  Texts,  ii.  498,  iv.  458. 

z 


354  VEDA-  VYASA—VENI-SANHARA. 


YEDA-YYASA.     '  The  arranger  of  tlie  Yedas.'     Bee  Yyasa. 

YEDODAYA.  '  Source  of  the  Yeda.'  An  epithet  Jf  the 
sun  as  the  source  of  the  Sama-veda. 

YEGAYAT.  '  Swift.'  i.  A  son  of  K?-2sh72a.  2.  A  Danava 
who  fought  on  the  side  of  the  >Salwas  against  K?i'sh?ia,  and  was 
killed  by  /S'aniba. 

YEiYA.  Son  of  Anga,  and  a  descendant  of  Manu  Swayam- 
bhuva.  AYhen  he  became  king  he  issued  this  proclamation  : — 
"  Men  must  not  sacrifice  or  give  gifts  or  present  oblations.  Who 
else  but  myself  is  the  enjoyer  of  sacrifices  %  I  am  for  ever  the 
lord  of  offerings."  The  sages  remonstrated  respectfully  with 
him,  but  in  vain ;  they  admonished  him  in  stronger  terms ;  but 
when  nothing  availed,  they  slew  him  with  blades  of  consecrated 
grass.  After  his  death  the  sages  beheld  clouds  of  dust,  and  on 
inquiry  found  that  they  arose  from  bands  of  men  who  had  taken 
to  plundering  because  the  country  was  left  without  a  king.  As 
Ye?ia  was  childless,  the  sages,  after  consultation,  rubbed  the 
thigh  (or,  according  to  the  Hari-van5a,  the  right  arm)  of  the  dead 
king  to  produce  a  son.  From  it  there  came  forth  "  a  man  like 
a  charred  log,  with  flat  face,  and  extremely  short."  The  sages 
told  him  to  sit  down  (N^ishida).  He  did  so,  and  thus  became 
a  Nishada,  from  whom  "  sjDrang  the  ISTishadas  dwelling  in  the 
Yindhya  mountains,  distinguished  by  their  wicked  deeds."  The 
Brahmans  then  rubbed  the  right  hand  of  Ye?2a,  and  from  it 
"sprang  the  majestic  Prithu,  Ye/ia's  son,  resplendent  in  body, 
glowing  like  the  manifested  Agni."  The  above  is  the  story  as 
told,  with  little  variation,  in  the  Maha-bharata,  the  Yish?zu  and 
Bhagavata  PuraTias,  and  the  Hari-vansa.  The  Padiua  Purawa 
says  that  Yewa  began  his  reign  well,  but  fell  into  the  Jaina 
heresy.  For  this  the  sages  pummelled  him  until  the  first  of  the 
Nishadas  came  forth  from  his  thioh  and  Pr?thu  from  his  right 
arm.  Being  freed  from  sin  by  the  birth  of  the  iJ^ishada,  he 
retired  to  a  hermitage  on  the  Narmada,  where  he  engaged  in 
penance.  Yish?Ri  was  thus  conciliated,  and  granted  him  the 
boon  of  becoming  one  with  himself.     See,  P?"ithi. 

YEYl-SANHAEA.  '  The  binding  of  the  braid.'  A  drama 
by  Bha//a  Narayami.  The  plot  is  taken  from  the  Maha-bharata. 
Draupadi,  the  wife  of  the  Pa?i6?u  princes,  was  dragged  by  the 
hair  of  her  head  into  the  hall  of  the  Kauravas  by  Uuh-sasana, 
and  she  vowed  that  it  should  remain  dishevelled  until  the  insult 


VENKATA—VIDEHA.  355 

was  avenged.  After  the  death  of  the  Kaiiravas  she  again  braided 
her  hair.  Wilson  has  given  an  analysis  of  the  drama.  There  are 
several  editions  of  the  text. 

VENKA7'A,  VENKArADEI.  A  hill  which  was  a  seat  of 
the  worship  of  Vish7iii.     It  is  the  modern  Tripati. 

VETALA.  A  ghost  or  goblin ;  a  sprite  who  haunts  cemeteries 
and  animates  dead  bodies. 

VETALA-PANCHAVIX^ATl.  The  twenty-five  stories  of 
the  Vetala.  It  is  the  Baital  Pachisi  of  Hindustani,  and  has  been 
translated  into  all  the  languages  of  India.  The  work  is  ascribed 
to  an  author  named  Jambhala-datta. 

YETEAYATi.  The  river  Betwa,  which  rises  in  the  Yind- 
liyas  and  falls  into  the  Jumna  below  Kalj^i. 

YIBHAYDAKA.  Son  of  Kasyapa.  An  ascetic  who  retired 
from  the  world  and  lived  in  the  forest  with  his  infant  son 
iiishya-5Tmga  (q.v.).  A  sage  of  this  name  is  sometimes  classed 
among  the  great  i^ishis. 

YIBHISHANA.  'Terrible.'  A  younger  brother  of  Eavawa. 
He,  like  his  brother,  propitiated  Brahma,  and  obtained  a  boon. 
His  was  that  he  should  never  commit  an  unworthy  action  even 
in  the  greatest  extremity.  He  was  virtuous,  and  opposed  to  the 
practices  of  the  Eakshasas.  This  led  to  a  quarrel  between  him 
and  EavaTza,  who  kicked  him  from  his  seat:  He  flew  off  to 
Kailasa,  and  under  the  advice  of  ^Siva  he  went  and  allied  himself 
with  Eama-chandra,  who  received  and  embraced  him  as  a  friend. 
After  the  defeat  and  death  of  Eava?ia  he  was  raised  by  Eama  to 
the  throne  of  Lanka. 

YICHITEA-YlEYA.     Name  of  a  king.     See  Maha-bharata. 

YIDAGDHA-MADHAYA.  A  drama  in  seven  acts  by  Eiipa 
on  the  loves  of  Krish?za  and  Eadha,  written  in  1533  a.d.  "  It 
is  weak  as  a  drama,  and  its  literary  merits  are  small." 

YIDAEBHA.  Birar,  and  probably  including  with  it  the 
adjoining  district  of  Beder,  which  name  is  ai:)parently  a  corrup- 
tion of  Yidarbha.  The  capital  was  Ku?i(iina-pura,  the  modern 
"  Kundapur,"  about  forty  miles  east  of  AmaravatL 

YIDDHA-6'ALABHAXJIKA.  'The  statue.'  A  comedy  of 
domestic  intrigue  by  Eaja  iS'ekhara.  It  was  2)robably  written 
earlier  than  the  tenth  century. 

YIDEHA.  An  ancient  country,  of  which  the  capital  was  Mi- 
thila.      It  corresponds  with  the  modern  Tirhut  or  Xorth  Bihar. 


356  VIDHATRI—  VIKRAMADITYA. 

VrDHxiTi?/.  *  Creator.'  A  name  of  Bralima,  of  Vishmi, 
and  of  Yi5wa-karma. 

YIDUEA.  A  son  of  Yj^asa  by  a  *S'udra  slave  girl,  who  took 
the  place  of  his  consort.  Yidura  was  called  Kshattri,  a  term 
ordinarily  applied  to  the  child  of  a  ^STidra  father  and  Brahman 
mother.  He  enjoyed  the  character  of  the  "wisest  of  the  wise," 
and  gave  good  advice  to  both  Kauravas  and  Payzt^avas,  but  in 
the  war  he  sided  with  the  latter.     See,  Maha-bharata. 

YIDURA.     A  mountain  in  Ceylon,  probably  Adam's  Peak. 

YIDYAX-MODA-TARA^^GIYL  '  fountain  of  pleasure  to 
the  learned.'  A  philosophical  work  by  Rama-deva,  translated 
into  English  by  Raja  Kali  K?7sh?m. 

YLDYA-DHARA  (mas.),  YIDYA-DHARI  (fern.).  'Pos- 
sessors of  knowledge.'  A  class  of  inferior  deities  inhabitinsj  the 
regions  between  the  earth  and  sky,  and  generally  of  benevolent 
disposition.  They  are  attendants  upon  Indra,  but  they  have 
chiefs  and  kings  of  their  own,  and  are  represented  as  inter- 
marrying and  having  much  intercourse  with  men.  They  are 
also  called  Kama-ru^^in,  '  taking  shapes  at  will ; '  Khechara  and 
Nabhas-chara,  'moving  in  the  air;'  Priyam-vada,  'sweet-spoken.' 

YIDYARAA^YA,  YIDYARAiYYA-SWAMI.  '  Forest  of 
learning.'  A  title  of  Madhavacharya,  as  patron  of  the  city  of 
Yidya-nagara,  afterwards  altered  to  Yijaya-nagara,  the  capital  of 
the  last  great  Hindu  dynasty  of  the  Dakhin. 

YlJA-GANITA  A  work  on  algebra,  translated  by  Cole- 
brooke  and  by  Strachey.  It  is  a  chapter  of  the  work  called 
Siddhanta-5iroma?zi,  written  by  Bhaskaracharya.  There  are 
several  editions  of  the  text. 

YIJAYA-NAGARA  The  capital  of  the  last  great  Hindu 
dynasty  of  the  south.  It  was  originally  called  Yidya-nagara, 
'  city  of  learning,'  after  the  great  scholar  and  minister  Miidha- 
vacharya,  entitled  Yidyara^zya,  '  forest  of  learning.'  But  in  the 
days  of  its  glory  the  Yidya  was  altered  to  Yijaya,  '  victory.' 

YIJNANE6YYARA  Author  of  the  law-book  caUed  Mitak- 
sliara. 

YIKARYA.     A  son  of  Dh?-ita-rrish/ra. 

YIKRAMADITYA.  A  celebrated  Hindu  king  who  reigned 
at  XJjjayini.  He  is  said  to  have  been  the  son  of  a  king  named 
Gardabhila.  His  name  has  been  given  to  the  Samvat  era,  com- 
mencing 57  B.C.     He  was  a  great  patron  of  learning,  and  his 


VIKRAMORVASI—VINDHYA.  357 

court  was  made  illustrious  by  the  ISTava-ratna,  or  nine  gems  of 
literature,  who  flourished  there.  He  is  a  great  hero  of  romance, 
and  many  improbable  stories  are  told  of  him.  His  real  position 
is  uncertain.  He  appears  to  have  driven  out  the  >S'akas,  and  to 
have  established  his  authority  over  K'orthern  India.  He  is  said 
to  have  fallen  in  battle  with  his  rival  /Salivahana,  king  of  the 
Dakhin,  who  also  has  an  era  called  /S'aka  dating  from  78  a.  d. 

YIKRAMORYA^I.  '  The  hero  and  the  nymph.'  A  cele- 
brated drama  by  Kahdasa,  translated  in  "Wilson's  Hindu  Theatre. 
There  are  many  editions  and  translations.     See  Purii-ravas. 

YIKUKSHI.  A  king  of  the  Solar  race,  who  succeeded  his 
father,  Ikshwaku.  He  received  the  name  of  iSasada,  '  hare-eater.' 
He  was  sent  by  his  father  to  hunt  and  obtain  flesh  suitable  for 
off'erings.  Being  weary  and  hungr}^  he  ate  a  hare,  and  Vasish/ha, 
the  priest,  declared  that  this  act  had  defiled  all  the  food,  for  what 
remained  was  but  his  leavinojs. 

YIMADA.  In  the  i?/g-veda  it  is  said  the  Aswins  gave 
a  bride  to  the  youthful  Yimada,  and  the  commentator  explains 
that  Yimada  had  won  his  bride  at  a  swayam-vara,  but  was  stopped 
on  the  way  home  by  his  unsuccessful  competitors.  The  Aswins 
came  to  his  succour,  repulsed  the  assailants,  placed  the  bride  in 
their  chariot,  and  carried  her  to  the  home  of  the  prince. 

YINATA.  A  daughter  of  Daksha,  one  of  the  wives  of 
Kasyapa,  and  mother  of  Garuc?a.  According  to  the  Bhagavata 
Purawa  she  was  the  wife  of  Tarksh^^a  or  Garu6?a. 

YINDA.  Yinda  and  Anuviuda  were  joint  kings  of  Avantij 
and  fought  in  the  great  war. 

YIXDHYA.  The  mountains  which  stretch  across  India,  and 
divide  what  Manu  calls  the  Madhya-desa  or  *  middle  land,'  the 
land  of  the  Hindus,  from  the  south,  that  is,  they  divide  Hindustan 
from  the  Dakhiru  The  mountain  is  personified,  and  according  to  a 
legend  he  was  jealous  of  the  Himalaj^a,  and  called  upon  the  sun  to 
revolve  round  him  as  he  did  round  Meru.  AATien  the  sun  refused 
the  mountain  began  to  raise  its  head  to  obstruct  that  luminary, 
and  to  tower  above  Himalaya  and  Meru.  The  gods  invoked  the 
aid  of  Agastya,  the  spiritual  guide  of  Yindliya.  That  sage  called 
upon  the  mountain  to  bow  down  before  him,  and  afi'ord  him  an 
easy  passage  to  and  from  the  south.  It  obeyed,  and  Agastya 
passed  over.  But  he  never  returned,  and  so  the  mountain  remains 
in  its  humbled  condition,  far  inferior  to  the  Himalaya. 


358  VIXDHYAVALI—VIRADHA. 

VIXDHYAYALI.     Y^ife  of  Bali  the  Asiira. 

VINDHYA-A^ASIXl.  '  The  dweUer  in  the  Vindlijas.'  The 
wife  of  iSiva.     ^iee  Devi. 

YIPA6',  YIPA*SA.  The  river  Byas,  the  Hyphasis  or  Bibasis 
of  the  classical  ^vriters.  A  les^end  relates  that  it  obtained  its 
name  through  the  sage  Yasish/ha,  who,  wishing  to  commit 
suicide,  bound  his  limbs  with  cords  and  threw  himself  into  the 
water.  The  river,  declining  to  drown  him,  cast  him  unbound 
(vipdsa)  on  its  bank. 

YIPRACHITTI.  Son  of  Kasyapa  and  Danu.  He  is  chief 
of  the  Danavas. 

YiRA-BHADRA.  A  son  or  emanation  of  iS'iva,  created  from 
liis  mouth,  and  having,  according  to  the  Yayu  Pura72a,  "  a  thou- 
sand heads,  a  thousand  eyes,  a  thousand  feet,  wielding  a  thou- 
sand clubs,  a  thousand  shafts ;  holding  the  shell,  the  discus,  the 
mace,  and  bearing  a  blazing  bow  and  battle-axe ;  fierce  and 
terrific,  shining  with  dreadful  splendour,  and  decorated  with  the 
crescent  moon ;  clothed  in  a  tiger's  skin,  dripping  with  blood, 
having  a  capacious  stomach  and  a  vast  mouth  armed  with  for- 
midable tusks,"  &c.,  &c.  The  object  of  his  creation  was  to  stop 
Daksha's  sacrifice,  and  harry  away  the  gods  and  others  who  were 
attending.  He  is  an  especial  object  of  worship  in  the  Mahratta 
country,  and  there  are  sculptures  of  him  in  the  caves  of  Ele- 
phanta  and  Ellora,  where  he  is  represented  with  eight  hands. 

YIRA-CHARITA.  A  book  of  tales  by  Ananta,  which  de- 
scribes the  feuds  between  the  descendants  of  Yikramaditya  and 
^alivahana. 

YIRADHA.  A  horrible  man-eating  Rakshasa,  son  of  Kiila 
and  /S'atahrada.  By  penance  he  had  obtained  from  Brahma  the 
boon  of  invulnerability.  He  is  described  as  "  being  like  a 
mountain  peak,  a  man-eater,  loud-voiced,  hollow-eyed,  large- 
mouthed,  liuge,  huge-bellied,  horrible,  rude,  long,  deformed,  of 
dreadful  aspect,  wearing  a  tiger's  skin,  dripping  with  fat,  wetted 
with  blood,  terrific  to  all  creatures,  like  death  with  open  mouth, 
bearing  three  lions,  four  tigers,  two  wolves,  ten  deer,  and  the 
great  head  of  an  elephant  witli  the  tusks,  and  smeared  with  fat, 
on  the  point  of  an  iron  pike,  shouting  with  a  loud  voice."  Rama, 
with  Lakshmawa  and  Sita,  encountered  him  in  the  Daiidaka 
forest,  when  he  foully  abused  and  taunted  the  brothers,  and 
seized  upon  Sita,     The  brothers  proved  with  their  arrows  that 


VIRAJ—  vis  ALA.  3  5  9 

lie  was  not  invulnerable,  but  he  caught  them,  threw  them  over 
his  shoulders,  and  ran  off  with  them  as  if  they  had  been  chil- 
dren. They  broke  both  his  arms,  threw  him  down,  beat  him 
with  their  fists,  and  dashed  him  to  the  earth,  but  they  could  not 
kill  him,  so  they  dug  a  deep  hole  and  buried  him  alive.  After 
his  burial  there  arose  from  the  earth  a  beautiful  person,  who 
said  that  he  was  a  Gandliarva  who  had  been  condemned  by 
Kuvera  to  assume  the  shape  of  a  Rakshasa,  from  which  Rama 
had  enabled  him  to  escape.     He  was  also  called  Tumburu. 

VIRAJ.  Manu  thus  describes  Yiraj  : — "  Having  divided  his 
body  into  two  parts,  the  lord  (Brahma)  became  with  the  half  a 
male,  and  with  the  (other)  half  a  female  ;  and  in  her  he  created 
Viraj.  Know  that  I  (Manu),  whom  that  male  Yiraj  himself 
created,  am  the  creator  of  all  this  world."  {See  Manu.)  One 
passage  in  the  it'ig-veda  says,  "From  him  (Purusha)  sprang 
Viraj,  and  from  Viraj  (sprang)  Purusha"  (Muir^s  Texts,  v.  50, 
369),  like  as  Aditi  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  Daksha,  and 
Daksha  from  Aditi.  Viraj,  the  male  half  of  Brahma,  is  sup- 
posed to  typify  all  male  creatures ;  and  /S'ata-riipa,  the  female 
haK,  all  female  forms. 

VlRA-MITRODAYA.  A  law-book  by  Mitra-misra,  of  autho- 
rity in  the  Benares  School.  It  is  in  the  form  of  a  commentary 
on  the  Mitakshara.     The  text  is  in  print. 

VIRATA.  A  country  in  the  vicinity  of  the  modern  Jaypur. 
The  present  town  of  Baira^  is  105  miles  south  of  Delhi.  Its  king 
was  called  Raja  of  YiiM-a.  or  Raja  Vira/a.  It  was  at  his  court 
that  the  Pawc^ava  princes  and  Draupadi  lived  in  disguise.  They 
rendered  him  great  services  against  his  enemies,  and  he  fought 
on  their  side  in  the  great  war  and  was  killed  by  Dro??a.  See 
]Matsya. 

VIROCHANA.  A  Danava,  son  of  Prahlada,  and  father  of 
Bali.  He  is  also  called  Drisana.  When  the  earth  was  milked, 
Virochana  acted  as  the  calf  of  the  Asuras.     See  Pr/thi. 

VIRtJPAKSHA.  'Deformed  as  to  the  eyes.'  A  name  of 
^iva,  who  has  three  eyes.  Also  one  of  the  Rudras.  Also  a 
Danava,  son  of  Kasyapa. 

VI.S^AKHA-DATTA.  Author  of  the  drama  "  Mudra-rak- 
shasa."  He  is  said  to  be  of  royal  descent,  but  his  family  has 
not  been  identified. 

VIaSALA.     a  name  of  the  city  UjjayinL 


36o  VISHNU. 

YISHiYU.  Root,  vish,  'to  pervade.'  The  second  god  of  the 
Hindu  triad  In  the  /i/g-veda  Yishjm  is  not  in  the  first  rank  of 
gods.  He  is  a  manifestation  of  the  solar  energy,  and  is  described  as 
striding  through  the  seven  regions  of  the  universe  in  three  steps, 
and  enveloping  all  things  with  the  dust  (of  his  heams).  These 
three  steps  are  explained  by  commentators  as  denoting  the  three 
manifestations  of  light — fire,  lightning,  and  the  sun ;  or  the  three 
places  of  the  sun — its  rising,  culmination,  and  setting.  In  the 
Yeda  he  is  occasionally  associated  with  Indra.  He  has  very 
little  in  common  with  the  Yishwu  of  later  times,  but  he  is  called 
"the  unconquerable  preserver,"  and  this  distincth'-  indicates  the 
great  preserving  power  which  he  afterwards  became. 

In  the  Brahma?ias  Yishwu  acquires  new  attributes,  and  is  in- 
vested with  legends  unknown  to  the  Yedas,  but  still  very  far  dis- 
tant from  those  of  the  Pura?zas.  In  Manu,  the  name  is  men- 
tioned, but  not  as  that  of  a  great  deity.  In  the  ]\Iaha-bharata 
and  in  the  Purawas  he  is  the  second  member  of  the  triad,  the 
embodiment  of  the  Satwa-guwa,  the  quality  of  mercy  and  good- 
ness, which  displays  itself  as  the  preserving  power,  the  self- 
existent,  all-pervading  spirit.  As  such,  his  votaries  associate 
him  with  the  watery  element  which  spread  everywhere  before 
the  creation  of  the  world.  In  this  character  he  is  called  Nara- 
yawa,  '  moving  in  the  waters,'  and  is  represented  pictoriaUy  in 
human  form  slumbering  on  the  serpent  ^S'esha  and  floating  on 
the  waters.  This,  too,  is  the  position  he  assumes  during  the 
periods  of  temporary  annihilation  of  the  universe. 

The  worshippers  of  Yish/iu  recognise  in  him  the  supreme 
bein£f  from  whom  all  things  emanate.  In  the  Maha-bharata  and 
in  the  Pura?zas  he  is  the  Prajapati  (creator)  and  supreme  god. 
As  such,  he  has  three  Avasthas  or  conditions : — i.  That  of 
Brahma,  the  active  creator,  who  is  represented  as  springing  from 
a  lotus  which  grew  from  Yishwu's  navel  while  he  was  sleeping 
afloat  upon  the  waters.  2.  Yish?m  himself,  the  preserver,  in  an 
Avatara  or  incarnate  form,  as  in  K77sh?ni.  3.  iSiva  or  Rudra, 
the  destructive  power,  who,  according  to  a  statement  'of  the 
Maha-bharata,  sprang  from  his  forehead.  But  though  the  INIaha- 
bliiirata  generally  allows  Yishwu  the  supremacy,  it  does  not  do 
so  invariably  and  exclusively.  There  are  passages  which  uphold 
/S'iva  as  the  greatest  of  the  gods,  and  represent  Yishwu  as  jjaying 
him  homage.     The  /S'aiva  Pura/ias  of  course  make  iSiva  supreme. 


VISHNU.  36't 

Yishwu's  preserving  and  restoring  power  has  been  manifested 
to  the  world  in  a  variety  of  forms  called  Avataras,  literally  '  de- 
scents,' but  more  intelligibly  '  incarnations,'  in  which  a  portion 
of  his  divine  essence  was  embodied  in  a  human  or  supernatural 
form  possessed  of  superhuman  powers.  All  these  Avataras 
became  manifest  for  correcting  some  great  evil  or  effecting  some 
great  good  in  the  world.  The  Avataras  are  ten  in  number,  but 
the  Bhagavata  PuraTia  increases  them  to  twenty-two,  and  adds 
that  in  reality  they  are  innumerable.  All  the  ten  Avataras  are 
honoured,  but  the  seventh  and  eighth,  Eama  and  Kr/sh?za,  are 
honoured  as  great  mortal  heroes  and  receive  worship  as  great  gods. 
K?*2sh?2a  is  more  especially  looked  upon  as  a  full  manifestation 
of  Yishmi,  and  as  one  with  Vish/iu  himself,  and  he  is  the  object 
of  a  widely  extended  and  very  popular  worship.     See  Avatara. 

The  holy  river  Ganges  is  said  to  spring  from  the  feet  of 
Vish?iu. 

As  preserver  and  restorer,  Yishiiu  is  a  very  popular  deity, 
and  the  worship  paid  to  him  is  of  a  joyous  character.  He  has 
a  thousand  names  (Sahasra-nama),  the  repetition  of  which  is  a 
meritorious  act  of  devotion.  His  wife  is  Lakshml  or  /S'ri,  the 
goddess  of  fortune,  his  heaven  is  Yaikun/ha,  and  his  vehicle 
is  the  bird  Garuc?a.  He  is  represented  as  a  comely  youth  of  a 
dark-blue  colour,  and  dressed  like  an  ancient  king.  He  has  four 
hands.  One  holds  the  Panchajanya  (q.v.),  a  iS^ankha  or  conch- 
shell  ;  another  the  Su-dar5ana  or  Yajra-nabha,  a  chakra  or  quoit 
weapon ;  the  third,  a  Gada  or  club  called  Kaumodaki ;  and  the 
fourth,  a  Padma  or  lotus.  He  has  a  bow  called  >Sarnga,  and  a 
sword  called  ISTandaka.  On  his  breast  are  the  peculiar  mark  or 
curl  called  ^Sri-vatsa  and  the  jewel  Kaustubha,  and  on  his  wrist 
is  the  jewel  Syamantaka.  He  is  sometimes  represented  seated 
on  a  lotus  with  Lakshmi  beside  him,  or  reclining  on  a  leaf  of 
that  plant.  Sometimes  he  is  portrayed  reclining  on  the  serpent 
^esha,  and  at  others  as  riding  on  his  gigantic  bird  Garuf?a. 

Of  the  thousand  names  of  Yishmi  the  following  are  some  of 
the  most  common  : — Achyuta,  '  unf alien,  imperishable  ;'  Ananta, 
'  the  endless ; '  Ananta-5ayana,  '  who  sleeps  on  the  serpent 
Ananta;'  Chatur-bhuja,  *  four-armed  ;'  Damodara,  'bound  round 
the  belly  with  a  rope,'  as  Kr?sh7Z.a ;  Govinda  or  Gopala,  '  the 
cowkeeper '  (KHsh?ia) ;  Hari ;  Hrishikesa,  '  lord  of  the  organs 
of  sense ; '  Jala-5ayin,  '  who  sleeps  on  the  waters ; '  Janarddana, 


362  VISHNU— VISRAVAS. 

'  whom  men  worship  ; '  Ke.<^ava,  '  the  hairy,  the  radiant ; '  Kiri- 
tin,  '  wearing  a  tiara ;'  Lakshmipati,  '  lord  of  Lakshmi ;'  Madhn- 
sudana,  '  destroj^er  of  Madliu ;'  Madhava,  'descendant  of  Madhu;' 
Mukimda,  'deliverer;'  Murari,  'the  foe  of  Mura;'  Nara,  'the 
man ; '  Naraya?za,  '  who  moves  in  the  waters  ; '  Panchayudlia, 
'  armed  with  five  weapons ; '  Padma-nabha,  '  lotus-navel ; '  Pitam- 
bara,  '  clothed  in  yellow  garments ; '  Purusha,  '  the  man,  the 
spirit;'  Purushottama,  'the  highest  of  men,  the  supreme  spirit;' 
^arngin  or  *Sarngi-pam,  '  carrying  the  bow  6'arnga ; '  Yasudeva, 
K?'ish72a,  son  of  Yasudeva;  Yarshweya,  'descendant  of  Yr/shwi;' 
Yaikun^'ha-natha,  '  lord  of  Yaikun/ha  (paradise) ; '  Yajnesa, 
Yajneswara,  'lord  of  sacrifice.' 

YISHYU.     Author  of  a  Dharma-sastra  or  law-book. 

YISHYU  PURAiYA.  This  PuraTza  generally  stands  third 
in  the  lists,  and  is  described  as  "  that  in  which  Parasara,  begin- 
ning with  the  events  of  the  Yaraha  Kalpa,  expounds  all  duties, 
is  called  the  Yaishnava,  and  the  learned  know  its  extent  to  be 
23,000  stanzas."  The  actual  number  of  stanzas  does  not  amount 
to  7000,  and  there  is  no  appearance  of  any  part  being  wanting. 
The  text  is  in  print. 

Y-^ilson,  the  translator  of  this  PuraTza,  says,  "  Of  the  whole 
series  of  Purawas  the  YishTiu  most  closely  corresponds  to  the 
definition  of  a  Pancha-laksha72a  Purawa,  or  one  which  treats  of 
five  specified  topics  (Primary  Creation,  Secondary  Creation, 
Genealogies  of  Gods  and  Patriarchs,  Eeigns  of  the  Manus,  His- 
tory). It  comprehends  them  all ;  and  although  it  has  infused 
a  portion  of  extraneous  and  sectarial  matter,  it  has  done  so  with 
sobriety  and  judgment,  and  has  not  suffered  the  fervour  of  its 
religious  zeal  to  transport  it  to  very  wide  deviations  from  the 
prescribed  path.  The  legendary  tales  which  it  has  inserted  are 
few,  and  are  conveniently  arranged,  so  that  they  do  not  distract 
the  attention  of  the  compiler  from  objects  of  more  permanent 
interest  and  importance."  The  whole  work  has  been  translated 
with  numerous  elucidatory  notes  by  Wilson,  and  a  second  edi- 
tion has  be&n  published  with  additional  valuable  notes  by  Dr. 
F.  Hall. 

YISMAPANA.  '  Astounding.'  The  aerial  city  of  the  Gand- 
harvas,  which  appears  and  disappears  at  intervals. 

YIaS'RAYAS.  Son  of  the  Prajapati  Pulastya,  or,  according 
to  a  statement  of   the  Maha-bharata,   a  reproduction  of  half 


VIS  WA  -DE  VA  S—  VIS  WA-KA  RMA.  363 

Pulastya  himself.  By  a  Bralimani  wife,  daughter  of  the  sage 
Bharadwaja,  named  I^avic^a  or  Ilavif/a,  he  had  a  son,  Kuvera,  the 
god  of  wealth.  By  a  Rfdcshasi  named  Nikasha  or  KaikasT, 
daughter  of  Sumali,  he  had  three  sons,  Ravawa,  Ivumhlia-karTza, 
and  Vibhishana  and  a  daughter  named  Surpa-nakha.  The 
Vish??u  PuraTza  substitutes  Kesini  for  Nikashii.  The  account 
given  by  the  Mahii-bharata  is  that  Pulastya,  being  offended  with 
Kuvera  for  his  adulation  of  Brahma,  reproduced  half  of  himself 
as  Yisravas,  and  Kuvera  to  recover  his  favour  gave  him  three 
Rakshasi  handmaids  :  Pushpotka/a,  the  mother  of  PavaTia  and 
Kumbhakar?za ;  MalinI,  the  mother  of  Vibhishana;  and  Raka, 
the  mother  of  Khara  and  Surpa-nakha. 

VI6'WA-DEYAS,  YI^WE-DEVAS.  'All  the  gods.'  In 
the  Vedas  they  form  a  class  nine  in  number.  All  the  deities  of 
inferior  order.  They  are  addressed  in  the  Yeda  as  "  preservers 
of  men,  bestowers  of  rewards."  In  later  times,  a  class  of  deities 
particularly  interested  in  exequial  offerings.  The  accounts  of 
them  are  rather  vague.  They  are  generally  said  to  be  ten  in 
number,  but  the  lists  vary,  both  as  to  the  number  and  the  names. 
The  following  is  one  list: — (i.)  Yasu,  (2.)  Satya,  (3.)  Kratu, 
(4.)  Daksha,  (5.)  Kala,  (6.)  Kama,  (7.)  Dhnti,  (8.)  Kuru,  (9.) 
Purii-ravas,  (10.)  Madravas.  Two  others  are  sometimes  added, 
Rochaka  or  Lochana  and  Dhuri  or  Dhwani.  See  Yishmi  Pura?za, 
Hall's  edition,  vol,  iii.  pp.  178,  188,  189. 

YI/S'WA-KARMA,  YIaS'WA-KARMAK  'Omnificent.'  This 
name  seems  to  have  been  originally  an  epithet  of  any  powerful 
god,  as  of  Indra  and  Siirya,  but  in  course  of  time  it  came  to 
designate  a  personification  of  the  creative  power.  In  this  cha- 
racter Yiswa-karma  was  the  great  architect  of  the  universe,  and 
is  described  in  two  hymns  of  tlie  itig-veda  as  the  one  "  all-seeing 
god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  faces,  arms,  and  feet,  who, 
when  producing  heaven  and  earth,  blows  them  forth  (or  shapes 
them)  with  his  arms  and  wings ;  the  father,  generator,  disposer, 
who  knows  all  worlds,  gives  the  gods  their  names,  and  is  beyond 
the  comprehension  of  mortals."  In  these  hymns  also  he  is  said 
to  sacrifice  himself  or  to  himself,  and  the  ISTirukta  explains  this 
by  a  legend  which  represents  that  "  Yiswa-karma,  son  of  Bhu- 
vana,  first  of  all  ofi"ered  up  all  worlds  in  a  Sarva-medlia  (general 
sacrifice),  and  ended  by  sacrificing  himself." 

In  the  Epic   and  Puramc  periods  Yiswa-karma  is  invested 


364  VISWAMITRA. 

with  the  powers  and  offices  of  the  Yedic  Twash^?-z,  and  is  some- 
times so  called.  He  is  not  only  the  great  architect,  but  the 
general  artificer  of  the  gods  and  maker  of  their  weapons.  It  was 
he  who  made  the  Agneyastra  or  "  fiery  weapon,"  and  it  was  he 
who  revealed  the  Sthapatya-veda,  or  science  of  architecture  and 
mechanics.  The  Maha-bharata  describes  him  as  "  the  lord  of 
the  arts,  executor  of  a  thousand  handicrafts,  the  carpenter  of  the 
gods,  the  fashioner  of  all  ornaments,  the  most  eminent  of  artisans, 
who  formed  the  celestial  chariots  of  the  deities,  on  whose  craft 
men  subsist,  and  whom,  a  great  and  immortal  god,  they  continu- 
ally worship." 

In  the  RamayaTia,  Yiswa-karma  is  represented  as  having  built 
the  city  of  Lanka  for  the  Rakshasas,  and  as  having  generated 
the  ape  IsTala,  who  constructed  Rama's  bridge  from  the  continent 
to  Ceylon. 

The  Purawas  make  Yiswa-karma  the  son  of  Prabhasa,  the 
eighth  Yasu,  by  his  wife  "the  lovely  and  virtuous  Yoga-siddha. " 
His  daughter  Sanjna  was  married  to  Surya,  the  sun ;  but  as  she 
was  unable  to  endure  his  effulgence,  Yiswa  karma  placed  the  sun 
upon  his  lathe  and  cut  away  an  eighth  part  of  his  brightness. 
The  fragments  fell  to  the  earth,  and  from  these  Yiswa-karma 
formed  "  the  discus  of  Yishwu,  the  trident  of  iSiva,  the  weapon 
of  Kuvera  the  god  of  wealth,  the  lance  of  Karttikeya  god 
of  war,  and  the  weapons  of  the  other  gods."  Yiswa-karmil 
is  also  represented  as  having  made  the  great  image  of  Jagan- 
natha. 

In  his  creative  capacity  he  is  sometimes  designated  Prajapati. 
He  also  has  the  appellations  Karu,  '  workman ; '  Takshaka, 
*  woodcutter ; '  Deva-vardhika,  '  the  builder  of  the  gods  ; '  Su- 
dhanwan,  '  having  a  good  bow.' 

YIaS'WAMITRA.  a  celebrated  sage,  who  was  born  a  Kslia- 
triya,  but  by  intense  austerities  raised  himself  to  tlie  Brahman 
caste,  and  became  one  of  the  seven  great  R'lshis.  According  to 
the  7?/g-veda  he  was  son  of  a  king  named  Kusika,  a  descendant 
of  Ku5a,  but  later  authorities  make  him  the  son  of  Gilthin  or 
Gadhi,  king  of  Kanya-kubja,  and  a  descendant  of  Puru ;  so 
Yiswamitra  is  declared  in  the  Hari-vansa  to  be  "  at  once  a  Pau- 
rava  and  a  Kausika"  by  lineage.  According  to  some,  Giidhi  was 
of  the  Kusika  race,  descended  from  Kusika.  Yiswamitra  is 
called  Gadhi-ja  and  Gadhi-nandana,  '  son  of  Gadhi.'     The  story 


VISWAMITRA.  365 

of  Yiswiimitra's  birth,  as  told  in  the  Vishvzu  Purawa,  is  that 
Gaclhi  had  a  daughter  named  Satyavati,  whom  he  gave  in  mar- 
riage to  an  old  Brahman  of  the  race  of  Bh?-igu  named  iti'chika. 
The  wife  being  a  Kshatriya,  her  husband  was  desirous  that  she 
might  bear  a  son  having  the  qualities  of  a  Brahman,  and  he  gave 
her  a  dish  of  food  which  he  had  prepared  to  effect  this  object. 
He  also  gave  her  mother  a  dish  intended  to  make  her  conceive  a 
son  with  the  character  *of  a  warrior.  At  the  instigation  of  the 
mother  the  dishes  were  exchanged,  so  the  mother  gave  birth  to 
Viswamitra,  the  son  of  a  Kshatriya  with  the  qualities  of  a 
Brahman ;  and  Satyavati  bore  Jamad-agni,  the  father  of  Parasu- 
rama,  the  warrior  Brahman  and  destroyer  of  the  Kshatriyas. 

The  most  noteworthy  and  important  feature  in  the  legends  of 
Viswamitra  is  the  active  and  enduring  struggle  between  him 
and  the  Brahman  Rkhi  Yasish^fha,  a  fact  which  is  frequently 
alluded  to  in  the  J?ig-veda,  and  is  supposed  to  typify  the  con- 
tentions between  the  Brahmans  and  the  Kshatriyas  for  the 
superiority.  Both  these  i?/sliis  occupy  a  prominent  position  in 
the  i?ig-veda,  Yiswamitra  being  the  itishi  of  the  hymns  in  the 
third  Mawfiala,  which  contains  the  celebrated  verse  Gayatri,  and 
Vasish/ha  of  those  of  the  seventh.  Each  of  them  was  at  differ- 
ent times  the  Purohita  or  family  priest  of  King  Su-das,  a  position 
of  considerable  importance  and  power,  the  possession  of  which 
stimulated  if  it  did  not  cause  their  rivalry.  The  two  sages 
cursed  each  other,  and  carried  their  enmity  into  deeds  of  vio- 
lence. Yiswamitra's  hundred  sons  are  represented  as  having 
been  eaten  or  burnt  up  by  the  breath  of  Yasish/ha.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  hundred  sons  of  Yasish/ha  were,  according  to 
one  legend,  eaten  up  by  King  Kalmasha-pada,  into  whom  a 
man-eating  Rakshasa  had  entered  under  the  influence  of  Yiswa- 
mitra, or,  according  to  another  legend,  they  were  reduced  to 
ashes  by  Yiswamitra's  curse  "  and  reborn  as  degraded  outcasts 
for  seven  hundred  births."  The  Aitareya  Brahma?ia  states  that 
Yiswamitra  had  a  hundred  sons,  but  that  when  he  adopted  his 
nephew  AS'una/i-se^^has  he  proposed  to  make  him  the  eldest  of  his 
sons.  Fifty  of  them  assented,  and  them  Yiswamitra  blessed 
that  they  should  "  aboimd  in  cattle  and  sons ; "  the  other  and 
elder  fifty  dissented,  and  them  he  cursed  "that  their  progeny 
should  possess  the  furthest  ends  (of  the  country),"  and  from 
them  have  descended  many  of  the  border  tribes  and  most  of  the 


366  VISIVAMITRA. 

Dasyus.  The  Malia-bliarata  has  a  legend  of  Yiswamitra  having 
commanded  the  river  Saraswati  to  bring  his  rival  Yasish/ha  that 
he  might  kill  him,  and  of  having  turned  it  into  blood  when  it 
flowed  in  another  direction  and  carried  Yasish/ha  out  of  his 
reach. 

Yiswamitra's  relationship  to  Jamad-agni  naturally  places  him 
in  a  prominent  position  in  the  Ramaya/ia.  Here  the  old  animo- 
sity between  him  and  Yasish/ha  again  appears.  He  as  a  king 
paid  a  visit  to  Yasish&a's  hermitage,  and  was  most  hospitably 
entertained ;  but  he  wished  to  obtain  Yasish/ha's  wondrous  cow, 
the  Kama-dhenu,  which  had  furnished  all  the  dainties  of  the 
feast.  His  offers  were  immense,  but  ^vere  all  dechned.  The 
cow  resisted  and  broke  away  when  he  attempted  to  take  her  by 
force,  and  when  he  battled  for  her,  his  armies  were  defeated  by 
the  hosts  summoned  up  by  the  cow,  and  his  "hundred  sons  were 
reduced  to  ashes  in  a  moment  by  the  blast  of  Yasish^ha's  mouth." 
A  long  and  fierce  combat  followed  between  Yasish/ha  and 
Yiswamitra,  in  which  the  latter  was  defeated ;  the  Kshatriya 
had  to  submit  to  the  humiliation  of  acknowledging  his  infe- 
riority to  the  Brahman,  and  he  therefore  resolved  to  work  out  his 
own  elevation  to  the  Brahmanical  order. 

'\Miile  he  was  engaged  in  austerities  for  accomplishing  his 
object  of  becoming  a  Brahman  he  became  connected  with  King 
Tri-5anku.  This  monarch  was  a  descendant  of  King  Ikshwaku, 
and  desired  to  perform  a  sacrifice  in  virtue  of  which  he  might 
ascend  bodily  to  heaven.  His  priest,  Yasish/ha,  declared  it  to 
be  impossible,  and  that  priest's  hundred  sons,  on  being  applied 
to,  refused  to  undertake  what  their  father  had  declined.  When 
the  king  told  them  that  he  would  seek  some  other  means  of 
accomplishing  his  object,  they  condemned  him  to  become  a 
Cha7ic/ala.  In  this  condition  he  had  resort  to  Yiswamitra,  and 
he,  taking  pity  on  him,  raised  him  to  heaven  in  his  bodily  form, 
notwithstanding  the  opposition  of  the  sons  of  Yasish/ha.  The 
Hari-vansa  version  of  this  story  is  difl'erent.  Tri-sanku,  also 
called  Satya-vrata,  had  attempted  the  abduction  of  the  young 
wife  of  a  citizen.  For  this  his  father  banished  him,  and  con- 
demned him  to  "  the  performance  of  a  silent  penance  for  twelve 
years."  During  his  exile  there  was  a  famine,  and  Tri-sanku 
succoured  and  supported  the  wife  and  family  of  Yiswamitra, 
who  were  reduced  to  the  direst  extremity  in  that  sage's  absence. 


V/S  WAMITRA  .  367 

Yasish/lia,  the  family  priest,  had  done  nothing  to  assuage  the 
wrath  of  the  aggrieved  father,  and  this  offended  Tri-sanku.  At 
the  end  of  his  penance,  being  in  want  of  meat,  he  killed  Vasish- 
ftia's  wonder-working  cow  and  partook  of  her  flesh;  for  this 
act  Vasish/ha  gave  him  the  name  of  Tri-5anku,  '  guilty  of  three 
sins.'  Yiswiimitra  was  grateful  for  the  assistance  rendered  by 
Tri-5anku,  and  gave  him  the  choice  of  a  boon.  He  begged  that 
he  might  ascend  bodily  to  heaven.  Viswamitra  then  installed 
Tri-sanku  in  his  father's  kingdom,  "  and  in  spite  of  the  resist- 
ance of  the  gods  and  of  Yasish/ha  he  exalted  the  king  alive  to 
heaven." 

The  Maha-bhiirata  and  the  Ramayawa  tell  the  story  of  Yiswa- 
mitra's  amour  with  Menaka.  His  austerities  had  so  alarmed  the 
gods  that  Indra  sent  this  Apsaras  to  seduce  Yiswamitra  "  by  the 
display  of  her  charms  and  the  exercise  of  all  her  allurements." 
She  succeeded,  and  the  result  was  the  birth  of  >S'akuntala. 
Yiswamitra  at  length  became  ashamed  of  his  passion,  and  "  dis- 
missing the  nymph  with  gentle  accents,  he  retired  to  the  northern 
mountains,  where  he  practised  severe  austerities  for  a  thousand 
years."  He  is  said  also  to  have  had  an  amour  with  the  nymph 
Rambha. 

The  result  of  the  struggle  between  Yasish/ha  and  Yiswamitra 
is  thus  told  in  the  Ramaya?ia  : — "  Yasishi!ha,  being  propitiated 
by  the  gods,  became  reconciled  to  Yiswamitra,  and  recognised 
his  claim  to  all  the  prerogatives  of  a  Brahman  i^ishi.  .  .  .  Yiswa- 
mitra, too,  having  attained  the  Brahmanical  rank,  paid  all  honour 
to  Yasish/ha." 

The  Ramaya?2a  gives  many  particulars  of  Yiswamitra's  con- 
nection with  Rama.  It  was  Yiswamitra  who  prevailed  upon 
King  Dasa-ratha  to  send  his  son  Rama  for  the  protection  of  the 
Brahmans  against  the  attacks  of  Rava?za  and  his  Rakshasas.  He 
acted  as  his  guru,  and  returned  with  Rama  to  Ayodliya,  where 
the  prince  obtained  the  hand  of  Sita. 

In  the  MarkawZeya  and  other  Pura?2as  the  story  is  told  of 
Yiswamitra's  implacable  persecution  of  King  Haris-chandra  (see 
Haris-chandra),  one  result  of  which  was  that  Yasish/ha  and 
Yiswamitra  cursed  each  other  so  that  they  were  turned  into 
birds,  and  fought  together  most  furiously  till  Brahma  put  an 
end  to  the  conflict,  restored  them  to  their  natural  forms,  and 
compelled  them  to  be  reconciled. 


368  VISWA-RUPA—VRAJA. 

YIS'WA-RtJPA.  '  Wearing  all  forms,  omniiDresent,  universal ; ' 
a  title  of  Yishwu. 

YI^SWAVASU.  A  chief  of  tlie  Gandliarvas  in  Indra's 
heaven. 

YLSWE-SWARA.  'Lord  of  aU.'  A  name  of  ^iva.  The 
celebrated  Linsi^a  or  emblem  of  AS'iva  at  Benares.     See  Linp^a. 

YiTA-HAYYA  A  king  of  the  Haihayas.  His  sons  attacked 
and  slew  all  the  family  of  Divodiisa,  king  of  Ivasi.  A  son, 
named  Pratardana  (q.v.),  was  subsequently  born  to  Divodasa, 
and  he  attacked  the  Haihayas  and  compelled  Yita-havya  to  fly 
to  the  sage  Bhr^gu  for  protection.  Pratardana  pursued  him,  and 
demanded  that  he  should  be  given  up.  Then  "  Yita-havya,  by 
the  mere  word  of  Bh?igu,  became  a  Brahman  it/shi  and  an 
utterer  of  the  Yeda"  (Maha-bharata).  His  son,  Gritsa-mada, 
was  a  highly  honoured  it/shi,  and  author  of  several  hymns  in 
the  jRig-veda.  He  was  the  founder  of  the  tribe  of  Haihayas 
called  Yita-havyas. 

YITASTA.  The  classic  Hydaspes,  the  Behat  of  later  days, 
and  the  modern  Jhelam. 

YIYADA-BHANGARAA.YA.  A  code  of  Hindu  law  ac- 
cording to  the  Bengal  school,  composed  by  Jagan-natha  Tarka- 
lankara  at  the  end  of  the  last  century.  It  has  been  translated 
by  Colebrooke,  and  is  commonly  known  as  ColebrooJce's  Digest 

YIYADA-CHANDRA.  A  law-book  of  the  Benares  school 
by  Lakhima  Devi,  a  learned  lady. 

YIYADA  -  CHINTAMAA^I.  A  law-book  of  the  Mithila 
school  by  Yachaspati  INIisra.     The  text  is  in  print. 

YIYADA-RATNAKARA.  A  law-book  of  the  Benares  school 
by  Chandeswara,  Avho  lived  about  13 14  a.d. 

YIYADA-TAiYDAYA.  A  law-book  of  the  Benares  school 
by  Ratnakara. 

YIYASWAT.  'The  l)right  one.'  The  sun.  {See  Surya,) 
Used  sometimes  perhaps  for  the  firmament. 

YIYINDHAYA.  A  Danava  killed  in  battle  by  Chfiru- 
deslma,  son  of  Kn'sh/ia.     See  Maha-bharata. 

YOPA-DEYA  A  grammarian  of  great  repute,  who  lived 
about  the  thirteenth  century  a.d.  at  Deva-giri,  and  wrote  the 
!Mugdha-bodha. 

YRAJA.  A  pastoral  district  about  Agra  and  Mathura,  where 
Krislma  ]3assed  his  boyhood  with  the  cowherds. 


VJ^ATVA—  VYAHRITIS.  369 

YE  AT  Y  A.  "  Persons  whom  the  twice-born  beget  on  women 
of  their  own  classes,  but  who  omit  the  prescribed  rites  and 
have  abandoned  the  Gayatri,  are  to  be  designated  as  Yrat^^as." 
— Manu. 

Yi?/DDHA.  'Old.'  An  epithet  frequently  found  jDrefixed 
to  the  books  of  ancient  writers,  and  evidently  implying  that 
there  are  one  or  more  versions  or  recensions — as  Ynddha 
Manu,  Yriddha  Harita.     See  Dharma-sastra. 

Yi^/HAT-KATHA.  'Great  story.'  A  large  collection  of  tales 
from  which  the  Katha-sarit-sagara  was  drawn.  There  is  a 
critical  examination  of  this  work  by  Dr.  Btililer  in  the  Indian 
Antiquary,  vol.  i. 

Yi?/HAT-SANHITA.  The  astronomical  work  of  Yaraha 
]\Iihira. 

Yi^/HAN  NAEADlYA  PUKAYA.  An  Upa-pura?ia.  See 
Purawa. 

Yi?/HASPATI.     See  Br^haspatl 

YEIKOBAHA.     '  Wolf  beUy.'     An  epithet  of  Bhima. 

YFil^BA-YAl^A.  A  wood  in  the  district  of  Mathura  where 
Is^rishnsL  passed  his  youth,  under  the  name  of  Gopala,  among  the 
cowherds. 

Yit/SHYI.  A  descendant  of  Yadu,  and  the  ancestor  from 
w^hom  K?"zsh??a  got  the  name  Yarshweya. 

Yi?/SHY1S,  Y7^/SHYAYAS.  The  descendants  of  Ynshm, 
son  of  Madhu,  whose  ancestor  was  the  eldest  son  of  Yadu. 
l^rishna,  belonged  to  this  branch  of  the  Lunar  race. 

Yii/TEA.  In  the  Yedas  he  is  the  demon  of  drought  and 
ungenial  weather,  with  whom  Indra,  the  god  of  the  firmament, 
is  constantly  at  war,  and  whom  he  is  constantly  overpowering, 
and  releasing  the  rain.     Sometimes  called  Y?'itrasura. 

Yi^/TEA-HAK     The  slayer  of  Yntra.     A  title  of  Indra. 

YYADI.  An  old  grammarian  and  lexicographer,  somewhat 
later  in  time  than  Pa^zini.  A  story  in  the  Y?ihat-katha  repre- 
sents him  as  contemporary  with  YararuchL 

YYAHit/TIS.  Three  mystical  words  said  by  Manu  to 
have  been  milked  from  the  Yedas  by  Prajapati — the  word  bliur, 
from  the  i^^g-veda ;  the  word  bhuvah,  from  the  Yajur-veda;  and 
the  word  swar,  from  the  Sama-veda  {Manu,  ii.  76).  The  /Sata- 
patha  Brahma?ia  defines  them  as  "  three  luminous  essences  " 
which  Prajapati  produced  from  the  Yedas  by  heating  them. 

2  A 


370     VVAKAI^ANA—yVA  VAHARA-CHINTAMANI, 

''  He  littered  the  word  hlmr,  which  became  this  earth ;  hhuvah, 
which  became  this  firmament ;  and  sivar,  which  became  that 
sky."  A  fourth  word,  maliar,  is  sometimes  added,  and  is  pro- 
bably intended  to  represent  the  Atharva-veda.     See  Loka. 

YYAKARAiVA.  'Grammar.'  One  of  the  Yedangas.  The 
science  of  grammar  has  been  carefiUly  studied  among  tlie  Hindus 
from  very  ancient  times,  and  studied  for  its  own  sake  as  a  science 
rather  than  as  a  means  of  acquiring  or  regulating  language.  The 
grammar  of  Pa?iini  is  the  oldest  of  those  known  to  survive,  but 
Pawini  refers  to  several  grammarians  who  preceded  himself.  One 
of  them  was  named  ^S'aka/ayana,  a  portion  of  whose  work  is 
said  to  have  been  discovered  lately. 

VYASA.  '  An  arranger.'  This  title  is  common  to  many  old 
authors  and  compilers,  but  it  is  especially  applied  to  Yeda-vyasa 
the  arranger  of  the  Yedas,  who,  from  the  imperishable  nature  of 
his  work,  is  also  called  /S'aswatas,  '  the  immortal'  The  name  is 
given  also  to  the  compiler  of  the  IMaha-bharata,  the  founder  of 
the  Yedanta  philosophy,  and  the  arranger  of  the  Purawas ;  all 
these  persons  being  held  to  be  identical  with  Yeda-vyasa.  But 
this  is  impossible,  and  the  attribution  of  all  these  works  to  one 
person  has  arisen  either  from  a  desire  to  heighten  their  antiquity 
and  authority,  or  from  the  assumed  identity  of  several  different 
"  arrangers."  Yeda-vyasa  was  the  illegitimate  son  of  the  Pikhi 
Parasara  and  Satyavati,  and  the  child,  who  was  of  a  dark  colour, 
was  brought  forth  on  an  island  (dwipa)  in  the  Yamuna.  Being 
illegitimate  he  was  called  Kanina,  the  '  bastard ; '  from  his  com- 
plexion he  received  the  name  Krishwa,  and  from  his  birtliplace 
he  was  called  Dwaipayana.  His  mother  afterwards  married  King 
^S'antanu,  by  whom  she  had  two  sons.  The  elder  was  killed  in 
battle,  and  the  younger,  named  Yichitra-vlrya,  died  childless. 
Knsh7za  Dwaipayana  preferred  a  life  of  religious  retirement, 
but  in  accordance  with  law  and  at  his  mother's  request,  he  took 
the  two  childless  widows  of  her  son,  Yichitra-vlrya.  By  them 
he  had  two  sons,  Dh?ita-rash^ra  and  ViHidw,  between  whose 
descendants  the  great  war  of  the  Malia-bharata  was  fought. 

The  Pura?i!as  mention  no  less  than  twenty-eight  Yyiisas, 
incarnations  of  Yislmu  or  Brahma,  who  descended  to  the  earth 
in  different  ages  to  arrange  and  promulgate  the  Yedas. 

YYAYAHARA-CHINTAMAA^I  A  law-book  of  the  Benares 
school  by  Yachaspati  Misra. 


VVA  VAHARA-MA  YUKHA—YAJNA-SENA.        37 1 

YYAVAHARA-MAYUKHA.  A  law-book  of  the  Maliratta 
school  by  Nilakan/ha  Bha//a.     Translated  by  Borrodaile. 

VYAVAHARA-TATWA.  A  modern  work  on  law  accord- 
ing to  the  Bengal  school  by  Raghunandana,  who  is  also  called 
Smarta-Bha//acharya. 

YADAVA.  A  descendant  of  Yadii.  The  Yadavas  were  the 
celebrated  race  in  which  Kr/shwa  was  born.  At  the  time  of  his 
birth  they  led  a  pastoral  life,  but  under  him  they  established  a 
kingdom  at  Dwaraka  in  Gujarat.  All  the  Yadavas  who  were 
present  in  that  city  after  the  death  of  KrishTia  perished  in  it 
when  it  was  submerged  by  the  ocean.  Some  few  were  absent, 
and  perpetuated  the  race,  from  which  many  princes  and  chiefs 
still  claim  their  descent.  The  great  Rajas  of  Vijaya-nagara 
asserted  themselves  as  its  representatives.  The  Aash?iu  Pura/z^a 
says  of  this  race,  "  Who  shall  enumerate  the  wdiole  of  the  mighty 
men  of  the  Yadava  race,  who  were  tens  of  ten  thousands  and 
hundreds  of  hundred  thousands  in  number  ? " 

YADU.  Son  of  King  Yayati  of  the  Lunar  race,  and  founder 
of  the  line  of  the  Yadavas  in  which  Knsh?ia  was  born.  He 
refused  to  bear  the  curse  of  decrepitude  passed  upon  his  father 
by  the  sage  ^S'ukra,  and  in  consequence  he  incurred  the  paternal 
curse,  "Your  posterity  shall  not  possess  dominion."  Still  he 
received  from  his  father  the  southern  districts  of  his  kingdom, 
and  his  posterity  prospered. 

YAJA.  A  Brahman  of  great  sanctity,  who,  at  the  earnest 
solicitation  of  King  Drupada,  and  for  the  offer  of  ten  millions  of 
kine,  performed  the  sacrifice  through  which  his  "  altar-born " 
children,  Dh?7'sh^a-dyumna  and  Draujjadi,  came  forth  from  the 
sacrificial  fire. 

YAJXA.  'Sacrifice.'  Sacrifice  personified  in  the  Purawas 
as  son  of  Ruchi  and  husband  of  Dakshiwa.  He  had  the  head 
of  a  deer,  and  was  killed  by  Vira-bhadra  at  Daksha's  sacrifice. 
According  to  the  Hari-vansa  he  was  raised  to  the  j^lanetary 
sphere  by  Brahma,  and  made  into  the  constellation  Mr/ga-siras 
(deer-head). 

YAJ:N'A-DATTA-BADHA.  '  The  death  of  Yajna-datta.'  An 
episode  of  the  Ramaya?m.  It  has  been  translated  into  Prench 
by  Chezy. 

YAJNA-PARIBHASHA.     A  SCitra  work  by  Apastambha. 

YAJXA-SENA.     A  name  of  Drupada. 


372  YAyiVA  IVA  LK  \  A . 

YAJNAWALKYA.  A  celebrated  sage,  to  wliom  is  attri- 
buted tbe  'Wniite  Yajur-veda,  the  ^S'atapatba  Brahmawa,  tbe 
Erihad  Ara7zyaka,  and  the  code  of  law  called  Yajnawalkya- 
sm?7'ti.  He  lived  before  the  grammarian  Ivatyayana,  and  was 
probably  later  than  Mann ;  at  any  rate,  the  code  bearing  his 
name  is  posterior  to  that  of  Mann.  He  was  a  disciple  of  Bash- 
kali,  and  more  particularly  of  Yai^ampayana.  The  Maha-bharata 
makes  him  present  at  the  Raja-siiya  sacrifice  performed  by 
Yudlii-sh/hira ;  and  according  to  the  >S'atapatha  Brahma7ia  he 
flourished  at  the  court  of  Janaka,  king  of  Yideha  and  father  of 
Sita.  Janaka  had  long  contentions  with  the  Brrdimans,  in  which 
he  was  supported,  and  probably  prompted,  by  Yajnawalkya. 
This  sage  was  a  dissenter  from  the  religious  teaching  and  prac- 
tices of  his  time,  and  is  represented  as  contending  with  and 
silencing  Brahmans  at  the  court  of  his  patron.  A  Brahman 
named  Yidagdha  ^Sakalya  was  his  especial  adversary,  but  he 
vanquished  him  and  cursed  him,  so  that  "  his  head  dropped  off, 
and  his  bones  were  stolen  by  robbers."  Yajnawalkya  also  is 
represented  as  inculcating  the  duty  and  necessity  of  religious 
retirement  and  meditation,  so  he  is  considered  as  having  been 
the  originator  of  the  Yoga  doctrine,  and  to  have  helped  in  pre- 
paring the  world  for  the  preaching  of  Buddha.  He  had  two 
wives,  Maitreyi  and  Katyayani,  and  he  instructed  the  former  in 
his  philosophical  doctrine.  Max  IMiiller  quotes  a  dialogue  be- 
tween them  from  the  iSatapatha  Brahma?ia  {Ancient  Sanskrit 
Literature,  p.  22),  in  which  the  sage  sets  forth  his  views. 

The  White  Yajur-veda  originated  in  a  schism,  of  Mdiich 
Yajnawalkya  was  a  leader,  if  not  the  author.  He  was  the  ori- 
ginator and  compiler  of  this  Yeda,  and  according  to  some  it  was 
called  Yajasaneyl  Sanhita,  from  his  surname  Yajasaneya.  See 
Yeda. 

What  share  Yajnawalkya  had  in  the  production  of  the  Sata,- 
patlia  Brahma?/a  and  Brihad  Arawyaka  is  very  doubtful.  Some 
part  of  them  may,  j^erhaps,  have  sprung  directly  from  him,  and 
they  were  probably  compiled  under  his  superintendence ;  but  it 
may  be,  as  some  think,  that  they  are  so  called  because  they  treat 
of  him  and  embody  his  teaching.  One  portion  of  the  B/v'had 
Ara/iyaka,  called  the  Yajnawalkiya  Iviinch,  cannot  have  been  his 
composition,  for  it  is  devoted  to  his" glorification  and  honour,  and 
was  probably  written  after  his  death. 


YAJUR—YAMA.  yjZ 

The  Sm?'iti,  or  code  of  law  which  bears  the  name  of  Yajna- 
walkya,  is  j^osterior  to  that  of  Mann,  and  is  more  precise  and 
stringent  in  its  provisions.  Its  authority  is  inferior  only  to  that 
of  Mann,  and  as  explained  and  developed  by  the  celebrated 
commentary  Mitakshara,  it  is  in  force  all  over  India  except  in 
Eengal  proper,  but  even  there  the  original  text-book  is  received. 
The  second  century  a.d.  has  been  named  as  the  earliest  date  of 
this  work.  Like  Manu,  it  has  two  recensions,  the  Brihad  and 
V?'iddha,  perhaps  more.  The  text  has  been  printed  in  Calcutta, 
and  has  been  translated  into  German  by  Stenzler  and  into  Eng- 
lish by  Roer  and  Montriou. 

YAJUR  or  YAJUSH.     The  second  Veda.     See  Veda. 

YAKSHAS.  A  class  of  supernatural  beings  attendant  on 
Kuvera,  the  god  of  wealth.  Authorities  differ  as  to  their  origin. 
They  have  no  very  special  attributes,  but  they  are  generally 
considered  as  inoffensive,  and  so  are  caUed  Pu?iya-janas,  '  good 
people,'  but  they  occasionally  appear  as  imps  of  evil.  It  is  a 
Yakslia  in  whose  mouth  Kali-dasa  placed  his  poem  Megha-diita 
(cloud  messenger). 

YAKSHA-LOKA.     See  Loka. 

YAKSHI,  YAKSHIVI.  i.  A  female  Yaksha.  2.  Wife  of 
Kuvera.     3.  A  female  demon  or  imp  attendant  on  Durga. 

YAM  A.  *  Restrainer.'  Pluto,  Minos.  In  the  Vedas  Yama 
is  god  of  the  dead,  with  whom  the  spirits  of  the  departed  dwell. 
He  was  the  son  of  Vivaswat  (the  Sun),  and  had  a  twin-sister 
named  Yami  or  Yamuna.  These  are  by  some  looked  upon  as 
the  first  human  pair,  the  originators  of  the  race ;  and  there  is  a 
remarkable  hymn,  in  the  form  of  a  dialogue,  in  which  the  female 
urges  their  cohabitation  for  the  purpose  of  perpetuating  the 
species.  Another  hymn  says  that  Yama  "  was  the  first  of  men 
that  died,  and  the  first  that  departed  to  the  (celestial)  world."  He 
it  was  who  found  out  the  way  to  the  home  which  cannot  be  taken 
away :  "  Those  who  are  now  born  (follow)  by  their  own  paths 
to  the  place  whither  our  ancient  fathers  have  departed."  "But," 
says  Dr.  JMuir,  "  Yama  is  nowhere  represented  in  the  i^/g-veda 
as  having  anything  to  do  with  the  punishment  of  the  wicked." 
So  far  as  is  yet  known,  "  the  hymns  of  that  Veda  contain  no 
prominent  mention  of  any  such  penal  retribution.  .  .  .  Yama  is 
still  to  some  extent  an  object  of  terror.  He  is  represented  as 
having  two  insatiable  dogs  with  four  eyes  and  wide  nostrils, 


s 


374  VAMA. 

wliicli  guard  the  road  to  his  abode,  and  which  the  departed  are 
advised  to  hurry  past  with  all  possible  speed.  These  dogs  are 
said  to  wander  about  among  men  as  his  messengers,  no  doubt 
for  the  purpose  of  summoning  them  to  their  master,  who  is  in 
another  place  identified  with  death,  and  is  described  as  sending 
a  bird  as  the  herald  of  doom." 

In  the  epic  poems  Yama  is  the  son  of  the  Sun  by  Sanjna 
(conscience),  and  brother  of  Yaivaswata  (Manu).  Mythologically 
he  was  the  father  of  Yudhi-sh^hira.  He  is  the  god  of  departed 
spirits  and  judge  of  the  dead.  A  soul  when  it  quits  its  mortal 
form  repairs  to  his  abode  in  the  lower  regions  ;  there  the  re- 
corder, Chitra-gupta,  reads  out  his  account  from  the  great 
register  called  Agra-sandhani,  and  a  just  sentence  follows,  when 
the  soul  either  ascends  to  the  abodes  of  the  Pitris  (Manes),  or 
is  sent  to  one  of  the  twenty-one  hells  according  to  its  guilt,  or 
it  is  born  again  on  earth  in  another  form.  Yama  is  regent  of 
the  south  quarter,  and  as  such  is  called  Dakshinasa-pati.  He 
is  represented  as  of  a  green  colour  and  clothed  with  red.  He 
rides  upon  a  bufi'alo,  and  is  armed  with  a  ponderous  mace  and  a 
noose  to  secure  his  victims. 

In  the  Pura7?as  a  legend  is  told  of  Yama  having  lifted  his 
foot  to  kick  Chhaya,  the  handmaid  of  his  father.  She  cursed 
liim  to  have  his  leg  affected  with  sores  and  worms,  but  his 
father  gave  him  a  cock  which  picked  off  the  worms  and  cured 
the  discharge.  Through  this  incident  he  is  called  iS'lr/za-pada, 
'shrivelled  foot.' 

Yama  had  several  wives,  as  Hemamala,  Su-sTlii,  and  Yijaya. 
He  dwells  in  the  lower  world,  in  his  city  Yama-pura.  There,  in 
his  palace  called  Kalichi,  he  sits  upon  his  throne  of  judgment, 
Vichara-bliu.  He  is  assisted  by  his  recorder  and  councillor, 
Chitra-gupta,  and  waited  upon  by  his  two  chief  attendants  and 
custodians,  Chanda  or  Maha-chanda,  and  Krda-pursusha.  His 
messengers,  Yama-diitas,  bring  in  the  souls  of  the  dead,  and  the 
door  of  his  judgment-hall  is  kept  by  his  porter,  Vaidliyata. 

Yama  has  many  names  descriptive  of  his  office.  He  is  M?7*tyu, 
Kala,  and  Antaka,  '  death  ; '  Kntanta,  '  the  finisher  ; '  ^Samana, 
'  the  settler ; '  Dandi  or  Darz^a-dhara,  '  the  rod-bearer  ; '  Bliima- 
siisana,  '  of  terrible  decrees  ; '  Pu.si,  '  the  noose-carrier  ; '  Pitri- 
pati,  '  lord  of  the  manes ; '  Preta-raja,  '  king  of  the  ghosts ;  * 
/Sraddha-deva,   '  god  of  the  exequial  offerings ; '  and   especially 


YAMA-VAIVASIVA TA—  YA  VA-KRL  375 

Dharma-raja,  'king  of  justice.'  He  is  AiidumLara,  from  Udum- 
liara,  '  the  fig-tree,'  and  from  liis  parentage  he  is  Vaivaswata. 
There  is  a  Dharma-sastra  which  bears  the  name  of  Yama. 

YAIMA-VAIYASWATA.     Yama  as  son  of  Yivaswat. 

YAMl.  The  goddess  of  the  Yamuna  river.  Sister  of  Yama 
(q.v.). 

YAMU!N"A.  The  river  Jumna,  which  rises  in  a  mountain 
called  Kalinda  (Sun).  The  river  Yamuna  is  personified  as  the 
daughter  of  the  Sun  by  his  wife  Sanjna.  So  she  was  sister  of 
Yama.  Bala-rama,  in  a  state  of  inebriety,  called  upon  her  to 
come  to  him  that  he  might  bathe,  and  as  she  did  not  heed,  he, 
in  a  great  rage,  seized  his  ploughshare-weajDon,  dragged  her  to 
him  and  compelled  her  to  follow  him  whithersoever  he  wandered 
through  the  wood.  The  river  then  assumed  a  human  form  and 
besought  his  forgiveness,  but  it  was  some  time  before  she  could 
appease  him.  Wilson  tliinks  that  "  the  legend  probably  alludes 
to  the  construction  of  canals  from  the  Jumna  for  the  purposes  of 
irrigation."  The  river  is  also  called  Kalindi,  from  the  place  of 
its  source,  Siirya-ja,  from  her  father,  and  Tri-yama. 

YASKA.  The  author  of  the  Nirukta,  the  oldest  known  gloss 
upon  the  text  of  the  Yedic  hymns.  Yaska  lived  before  the 
time  of  Pamni,  who  refers  to  his  work,  but  he  was  not  the  first 
author  who  wrote  a  Nirukta,  as  he  himself  refers  to  several 
predecessors.     See  Nirukta. 

YASODA.  AYife  of  the  cowherd  Kanda,  and  foster-mother 
of  Kr/sh?^a. 

YATUS,  YATU-DHANAS.  Demons  or  evil  spirits  of  various 
forms,  as  dogs,  vultures,  hoofed-animals,  &c.  In  ancient  times 
the  Yatus  or  Yatu-dhanas  were  distinct  from  the  Eakshasas 
though  associated  with  tliem,  but  in  the  epic  poems  and 
Pura??as  they  are  identified.  Twelve  Yatu-dhanas  are  named 
in  the  Yayu  Purawa,  and  they  are  said  to  have  sprung  from 
Kasyapa  and  Su-rasa.  They  are  associated  with  the  Dasyus,  and 
are  thought  to  be  one  of  the  native  races  which  opposed  the 
progress  of  the  immigrant  Aryans. 

YAYA-KRI,  YAYA-KRITA.  '  Bought  with  barley.'  Son 
of  the  sage  Bharadwaja.  He  performed  great  penances  in  order 
to  obtain  a  knowledge  of  the  Yedas  without  study,  and  having 
obtained  this  and  other  boons  from  Indra,  he  became  arrogant 
and  treated  other  sages  with  disresjDect.     He  made  love  to  the 


376  YAVANAS—VAVATI. 

wife  of  Paravasu,  son  of  his  father's  friend,  Eaibhya.  That  sage 
in  his  anger  performed  a  sacrifice  which  brought  into  being  a 
fearful  Rakshasa  who  killed  Yava-krita  at  his  father's  chapeL 
Bharadwaja,  in  grief  for  his  son,  burnt  himself  upon  the  funeral 
pile.  Eefore  his  death  he  cursed  Paravasu  to  be  the  death  of 
his  father,  Eaibhya,  and  the  son  killed  his  father  in  mistake 
for  an  antelope.  All  three  were  restored  to  life  by  the  gods  in 
recompense  of  the  great  devotions  of  Arvavasu,  the  other  son  of 
Eaibhya  (q.  v. ). — Mahd-bhdraia. 

YAYAXAS.  Greeks,  'idovsg,  the  Yavans  of  the  Hebrew. 
The  term  is  found  in  Pacini,  who  speaks  of  the  writing  of  the 
Yavanas.  The  Purawas  represent  them  to  be  descendants  of 
Turvasu,  but  they  are  always  associated  with  the  tribes  of 
the  north-west  frontier,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
Macedonian  or  Bactrian  Greeks  are  the  people  most  usually  in- 
tended by  the  term.  In  the  Bactrian  Pali  inscriptions  of  King 
Priyadar^i  the  word  is  contracted  to  Yona,  and  the  term  Yona- 
raja  "  is  associated  with  the  name  of  Antiochus,  probably  Antio- 
chus  the  Great,  the  ally  of  the  Indian  prince  Sophagasenas, 
about  B.C.  2IO."  The  Purfu^as  characterise  them  as  "wise  and 
eminently  brave."  They  were  among  the  races  conquered  by 
King  Sagara,  and  "he  made  them  shave  their  heads  entirely." 
In  a  later  age  they  were  encountered  on  the  Indus  by  Puslipa- 
mitra,  a  Mauryan  general,  who  dethroned  his  master  and  took 
the  throne.  In  modern  times  the  term  has  been  applied  to 
the  Muhammadans. 

YAYATI.  The  fifth  king  of  the  Lunar  race,  and  son  of 
Nahusha.  He  had  two  wives,  Devayani  and  Sarmish/ha,  from 
the  former  of  whom  was  born  Yadu,  and  from  the  latter  Puru, 
the  respective  founders  of  the  two  great  lines  of  Yildavas  and 
Pauravas.  In  all  he  had  five  sons,  the  other  three  being 
Druhyu,  Turvasu,  and  Anu.  He  was  a  man  of  amorous  dis- 
position, and  his  infidelity  to  Devayani  brought  upon  him  the 
curse  of  old  age  and  infirmity  from  her  father,  ^Sukra.  This 
curse  /S'ukra  consented  to  transfer  to  any  one  of  his  sons  who 
would  consent  to  bear  it.  All  refused  except  Puru,  who  under- 
took to  resign  his  youth  in  his  father's  favour.  Yayiiti,  after  a 
thousand  years  spent  in  sensual  pleasures,  renounced  sensuality, 
restored  his  vigour  to  Puru,  and  made  him  his  successor.  This 
story  of  Puru's  assuming  Yayuti's  decrepitude  is  first  told  in  the 


VA  YATI—  yon  I.  377 

Malia-bharata.  The  above  is  the  version  of  the  Vishnu  Purawa. 
In  the  Padma  it  is  told  in  a  different  manner.  Yayati  was  in- 
vited to  heaven  by  Indra,  who  sent  Matali,  his  cliarioteer,  to 
fetch  his  guest.  On  their  way  they  held  a  philosophical  dis- 
cussion, which  made  such  an  impression  on  Yayati  that,  when 
he  returned  to  earth,  he,  by  his  virtuous  administration,  rendered 
all  his  subjects  exempt  from  passion  and  decay.  Yama  com- 
plained that  men  no  longer  died,  and  so  Indra  sent  Kama-deva, 
god  of  love,  and  his  daughter,  Asruvindumati,  to  excite  a  pas- 
sion in  the  breast  of  Yayati.  He  became  enamoured,  and  in 
order  to  become  a  fit  husband  for  his  youthful  charmer  he  made 
application  to  his  sons  for  an  exchange  of  their  youth  and  his 
decrepitude.  All  refused  but  Puru,  whose  manly  vigour  his 
father  assumed.  After  awhile  the  youthful  bride,  at  the  insti- 
gation of  Indra,  persuaded  her  husband  to  return  to  heaven,  and 
he  then  restored  to  Puru  his  youth.  The  Bhagavata  Purawa  and 
the  Hari-vansa  tell  the  story,  but  with  variations.  According  to 
the  latter,  Yayati  received  from  Indra  a  celestial  car,  by  means 
of  which  he  in  six  nights  conquered  the  earth  and  subdued  the 
gods  themselves.  This  car  descended  to  his  successors,  but  was 
lost  by  Jamamejaya  through  the  curse  of  the  sage  Gargya. 
Yayati,  after  restoring  his  youth  to  Puru,  retired  to  the  forest 
with  his  wife  and  gave  himself  up  to  mortification.  Abstaining 
from  food,  he  died  and  ascended  to  heaven.  He  and  his  five 
sons  are  all  called  Rajarshis. 

YAYATI-CHARITRA.  A  drama  in  seven  acts  on  the  life 
of  Yayati.  It  is  attributed  to  Rudra-deva.  The  subject  is 
Yayati's  intrigue  with  Sarmish/ha. 

YOGA  A  school  of  philosophy.  See  Darsana  and  Yajna- 
walkya. 

YOGA-NIDRA.  'The  sleep  of  meditation.'  Personified 
delusion.  The  great  illusory  energy  of  Yislmu  and  the  illusory 
power  manifested  in  Devi  as  Maha-maya,  the  great  illusion. 

YOGIXl.  A  sorceress.  The  Yoginis  are  eight  female  demons 
attendant  on  Durga.  Their  names  are  Marjani,  Karpiira-tilaka, 
Malaya-gandhinl  Kaumudika,  Bheru?2f/a,  IMatali,  Nayaki,  and 
Jaya  or  /S'ubhacliara  ;  Su-lakshawa,  Su-nanda. 

YONI.  The  female  organ.  Alone,  or  in  combination  with 
the  Linga,  it  is  an  object  of  worship  by  the  followers  of  the 
/S'aktis. 


3/8  YUDHI-SHTHIRA. 

YUDHI-SHrniKA.  Tlie  eldest  of  tlie  five  Vrndu  princes, 
mythologically  the  son  of  Dharma,  the  god  of  justice.  With 
the  Hindus  he  is  the  favourite  one  of  the  five  brothers,  and 
is  represented  as  a  man  of  cabn,  passionless  judgment,  strict 
veracity,  unswerving  rectitude,  and  rigid  justice.  He  was  re- 
noAvned  as  a  ruler  and  director,  but  not  as  a  warrior.  Educated 
at  the  court  of  his  uncle,  Dhr/ta-rash/ra,  he  received  from  the 
family  j)receptor,  Drorza,  a  military  training,  and  was  taught  the 
use  of  the  spear.  "VThen  the  time  came  for  naming  the  Yuva-raja 
or  heir-apparent  to  the  realm  of  Hastina-pura,  the  Maha-raja 
Dhn'ta-rash/ra  selected  Yudhi-sh/hira  in  preference  to  his  own 
eldest  son,  Dur-yodhana.  A  long-standing  jealousy  between 
the  Paw(iava  and  Ivaurava  princes  then  broke  forth  ojDcnly. 
Dur-yodhana  expostulated  with  his  father,  and  the  end  was  that 
the  PaTiffavas  went  in  honourable  banishment  to  the  city  of 
YaraTzavata.  The  jealousy  of  Dur-yodhana  pursued  them,  and  his 
emissaries  laid  a  plot  for  burning  the  brothers  in  their  dwelling- 
house.  Yudhi-sh/hira's  sagacity  discovered  the  plot  and  Bhima 
frustrated  it.  The  bodies  of  a  Bhil  woman  and  her  five  sons 
were  found  in  the  ruins  of  the  burnt  house,  and  it  was  believed 
for  a  time  that  the  Pa7?fZavas  and  their  mother  had  perished. 
When  Draupadi  had  been  won  at  the  swayam-vara,  Yudhi- 
sh^hira,  the  eldest  of  the  five  brothers,  was  requested  by  his 
juniors  to  make  her  his  wife,  but  he  desired  that  she  should 
become  the  wife  of  Arjuna,  by  whose  prowess  she  had  been  won. 
Through  the  words  of  their  mother,  Kunti,  and  the  decision  of 
the  sage  Yyasa,  the  princess  became  the  common  wife  of  the  five 
brothers.  An  arrangement  was  made  that  Draupadi  should 
dwell  in  turn  with  the  five  brothers,  passing  two  days  in  the 
separate  house  of  each,  and  that  under  pain  of  exile  for  twelve 
years  no  one  of  the  brothers  but  the  master  of  the  house  should 
enter  while  Draupadi  was  staying  in  it.  The  arms  of  tlie 
family  were  kept  in  the  house  of  Yudhi-sh^hira,  and  an  alarm 
of  robbery  being  raised,  Arjuna  rushed  there  to  procure  his 
weapons  while  Draupadi  was  present.  He  thus  incurred  the 
pain  of  exile,  and  departed,  though  Yudhi-sh/hira  endeavoured 
to  dissuade  him  by  arguing  that  the  elder  brother  of  a  fatherless 
family  stood  towards  his  juniors  in  the  position  of  a  father. 
After  the  return  of  the  Pam/avas  from  exile  and  their  establish- 
ment at  Tndra-prastha,  the  rule  of  Yudlii-sh/liira  is  described  as 


YUDHI-SHTHIRA.  379 

having  been  most  excellent  and  prosperous.  The  Raja  "ruled 
his  country  with  great  justice,  protecting  his  subjects  as  his  own 
sons,  and  subduing  all  his  enemies  round  about,  so  that  every 
man  was  without  fear  of  war  or  disturbance,  and  gave  his  whole 
mind  to  the  performance  of  every  religious  duty.  And  the  Raja  had 
plenty  of  rain  at  the  proper  season,  and  all  his  subjects  became 
rich  ;  and  the  virtues  of  the  Raja  were  to  be  seen  in  the  great 
increase  of  trade  and  merchandise,  in  the  abundant  harvests  and 
the  prolitic  cattle.  Every  subject  of  the  Raja  was  pious  ;  there 
were  no  liars,  no  thieves,  and  no  swindlers  ;  and  there  were  no 
droughts,  no  floods,  no  locusts,  no  conflagrations,  no  foreign 
invasions,  and  no  parrots  to  eat  the  grain.  The  neighbouring 
Rajas,  despairing  of  conquering  Raja  Yudhi-sh/hira,  were  very 
desirous  of  securing  his  friendshij).  Meanwhile  Yudhi-sh/liira, 
though  he  would  never  acquire  wealth  by  unfair  means,  yet 
prospered  so  exceedingly  that  had  he  lavished  his  riches  for  a 
thousand  years  no  diminution  would  ever  have  been  perceived." 
After  the  return  of  his  brother  Arjuna  from  exile,  Yudlii-sh/hira 
determined  to  assert  his  supremacy  by  performing  the  Raja-silya 
sacrifice,  and  this  led  to  a  war  with  Jarasandha,  Raja  of  ]Maga- 
dha,  who  declined  to  take  part  in  it,  and  was  in  consequence 
defeated  and  killed.  The  dignity  which  Yudhi-sh/hira  had 
gained  by  the  performance  of  the  sacrifice  rekindled  the  jealousy 
of  Dur-yodhana  and  the  other  Kauravas.  They  resolved  to 
invite  their  cousins  to  a  gambling  match,  and  to  cheat  Yudhi- 
shfliira  of  his  kingdom.  Yudhi-sh/hira  was  very  unwilling  to 
go,  but  could  not  refuse  his  uncle's  invitation.  /S'akuni,  maternal 
uncle  of  Dur-yodhana,  was  not  only  a  skilful  player  but  also  a 
dexterous  cheat.  He  challenged  Yudhi-sli!!hira  to  throw  dice 
w^ith  him,  and  Yudhi-sh/hira,  after  stipulating  for  fair- play, 
began  the  game.  He  lost  his  all,  his  kingdom,  his  brothers, 
himself,  and  his  wife,  all  of  whom  became  slaves.  When 
Draupadi  was  sent  for  as  a  slave  and  refused  to  come,  Duh- 
5asana  dragged  her  into  the  hall  by  the  hair,  and  both  he  and 
Dur-yodhana  grossly  insulted  her.  Bhima  was  half  mad  with 
rage,  but  Yudhi-sh/hira' s  sense  of  right  acknowledged  that 
Draupadi  was  a  slave,  and  he  forbade  Bhima  and  his  brothers  to 
interfere,  AYhen  the  old  Maha-raja  Dhrita-rashfra  was  informed 
of  what  had  passed,  he  came  into  the  assembly,  and  declaring  that 
his  sons  had  acted  wrongfully,  he  sent  Draupadi  and  her  hus- 


38o  YUDHI-SHTHIRA. 

bands  away,  imploring  tliem  to  forget  what  had  passed.  Dur- 
yodhana  was  very  wroth,  and  induced  the  Maha-raja  to  allow 
another  game  to  avoid  war,  the  condition  being  that  the  losers 
should  go  into  exile  for  thirteen  years,  and  should  remain  con- 
cealed and  undiscovered  during  the  whole  of  the  thirteenth  year. 
The  game  was  played,  and  loaded  dice  gave  5'akuni  the  victory, 
so  the  Pa?it/avas  went  again  into  exile.  During  that  time  they 
rendered  a  service  to  Dur-yodhana  by  rescuing  him  and  his  com- 
panions from  a  band  of  marauders  who  had  made  them  prisoners. 
When  Jayad-ratha,  king  of  Sindhu,  was  foiled  in  his  attempt 
to  carry  off  Draupadi,  the  clemency  of  Yudhi-sh/hira  led  him 
to  implore  his  brothers  to  spare  their  captive's  life.  As  the 
thirteenth  year  of  exile  approached,  in  order  to  keep  themselves 
concealed,  the  five  brothers  and  Draupadi  went  to  the  country 
of  Yira/a  and  entered  into  the  service  of  the  Raja.  Yudhi- 
sh^hira's  office  was  that  of  private  companion  and  teacher  of 
dice-playing  to  the  king.  Here  Yudhi-sh/hira  suffered  his  wife 
Draupadi  to  be  insulted,  and  dissuaded  his  brothers  from  inter- 
fering, lest  by  so  doing  they  should  discover  themselves.  When 
the  term  of  exile  was  concluded,  Yudlii-sh/hira  sent  an  envov  to 
Hastina-pura  asking  for  a  peaceful  restoration  to  the  Paw<iavas 
of  their  former  position.  The  negotiations  failed,  and  Yudhi- 
sh/hira  invited  K77'sh?ia  to  go  as  his  representative  to  Hastina- 
pura.  jSTotwithstanding  Yudhi-sh/hira's  longing  for  peace  the 
war  began,  but  even  then  Yudhi-shi!hira  desired  to  withdraw, 
but  was  overruled  by  K7'zsh?2a. 

Yudhi-sh/hira  fought  in  the  great  battle,  but  did  not  distin- 
guish himself  as  a  soldier.  The  version  of  the  JMaha-bharata 
given  in  Mr.  AYlieeler's  work  makes  him  guilty  of  downright 
cowardice.  At  the  instigation  of  Knsh?ia  he  compassed  the 
death  of  Dro?ia  by  conveying  to  that  warrior  false  intelligence  of 
the  death  of  his  son  Aswatthaman,  and  his  character  for  veracity 
was  used  to  warrant  the  truth  of  the  representation.  His  con- 
science would  not  allow  him  to  tell  a  downright  lie,  but  it  was 
reconciled  to  telling  a  lying  truth  in  killing  an  elephant  named 
A.swatthaman,  and  informing  the  fond  father  that  Aswatthaman 
was  dead.  He  retreated  from  a  fight  with  Karwa,  and  after- 
wards reproached  Arjuna  for  not  having  supjDorted  him  and 
Dhlma.  This  so  irritated  Arjuna  that  he  would  have  killed  him 
on  the  spot  had  not  K?'zsli?2a  interposed.     After  the  great  battle 


VC/GA. 


381 


was  over  K7'isli?ia  sainted  him  king,  but  lie  showed  gi^eat  disin- 
clination to  accej^t  the  dignity.  His  sorrow  for  those  who  had 
fallen  was  deep,  especially  for  Karyza,  and  he  did  what  he  could  to 
console  the  bereaved  Dhnta-rash/ra  and  Gandhari,  as  well  as  the 
many  other  sufferers.  He  was  made  king,  and  was  raised  to  the 
throne  with  great  pomp,  he  acting  as  ruler  under  the  nominal 
supremacy  of  the  old  King  Dli?'ita-rash/ra.  There,  after  an  inter- 
val, he  asserted  his  universal  supremacy  by  performing  the  great 
Aswa-medha  sacrifice.  The  death  of  Krishna  at  Dwaraka  and 
regrets  for  the  past  embittered  the  lives  of  the  Pa7i(;/avas,  and 
they  resolved  to  withdraw  from  the  world.  Yudhi-sh^hira 
appointed  Parikshit,  grandson  of  Arjuna,  to  be  his  successor, 
and  the  five  brothers  departed  with  Draupadi  to  the  Himalayas 
on  their  way  to  Swarga.  The  story  of  this  journey  is  told  with 
great  feeling  in  the  closing  verses  of  the  Maha-bharata.  See 
Maha-bharata. 

Yudhi-sh^hira  had  a  son  named  Yaudheya  by  his  wife  Devika; 
but  the  VisliTiu  Pura?ia  makes  the  son's  name  Devaka  and  the 
mother's  YaudheyL 

YUGA.  An  age  of  the  world.  Each  of  these  ages  is  preceded 
by  a  period  called  its  Sandhya  or  tAvilight,  and  is  followed  by 
another  period  of  equal  length  called  Sandhyansa,  '  portion  of 
twilight,'  each  being  equal  to  one-tenth  of  the  Yuga.  The 
Yugas  are  four  in  number,  and  their  duration  is  first  computed 
by  years  of  the  gods  :  — 


1.  KWta  Yuga,     . 
Sandhya, 
Sandhyansa,     . 

2.  Treta  Yuga,     , 
Sandhya, 
Sandhyansa,     . 

3.  Dwapara  Yuga, 
Sandhya, 
Sandhyansa,     . 

4.  Kali  Yuga, 
Sandhya, 
Sandhyan^a,    . 


4000 
400 
400 

3000 
300 
300 

2000 
200 
200 

1000 
100 
100 


4,800 


;,6oo 


2,400 


1,200 


12,000 


382  YC'CA. 

But  a  year  of  the  gods  is  equal  to  360  years  of  men,  so 


4800 

X 

360  = 

1,728,000 

3600 

X 

360  ^ 

1,296,000 

2400 

X 

360  = 

864,000 

1200 

X 

360  = 

432,000 

Total,      .       4,320,000 

years,  forming  the  period  called  a  Maha-yuga  or  Manwantara. 
Two  thousand  Maha-yugas  or  8,640,000,000  years  make  a  Kalpa 
or  night  and  a  day  of  Brahma. 

This  elaborate  and  practically  boundless  system  of  chronology 
was  invented  between  the  age  of  the  J?/g-veda  and  that  of  the 
]\Iaha-bharata.  JSTo  traces  of  it  are  to  be  found  in  the  hymns  of 
the  Big,  but  it  was  fully  established  in  the  days  of  the  great 
epic.  In  this  work  the  four  ages  are  described  at  length  by 
Haniimat,  the  learned  monkey  chief,  and  from  that  description 
the  following  account  has  been  abridged  : — 

The  K7*ita  is  the  age  in  which  righteousness  is  eternal,  when 
duties  did  not  languish  nor  people  decline.  JSTo  efforts  were 
made  by  men,  the  fruit  of  the  earth  was  obtained  by  their  mere 
wish.  There  was  no  malice,  weeping,  pride,  or  deceit ;  no  con- 
tention, no  hatred,  cruelty,  fear,  affliction,  jealousy,  or  envy. 
The  castes  alike  in  their  functions  fulfilled  their  duties,  were 
unceasingly  devoted  to  one  deity,  and  used  one  formula,  one  rule, 
and  one  rite.  Though  they  had  separate  duties,  they  had  but 
one  Veda  and  practised  one  duty. 

In  the  Tretil  Yuga  sacrifice  commenced,  righteousness  decreased 
by  one-fourth ;  men  adhered  to  truth,  and  were  devoted  to  a 
righteousness  dependent  on  ceremonies.  Sacrifices  prevailed 
with  holy  acts  and  a  variety  of  rites.  Men  acted  with  an  object 
in  view,  seeking  after  reward  for  their  rites  and  their  gifts,  and 
were  no  longer  disposed  to  austerities  and  to  liberality  from  a 
simple  feeling  of  duty. 

In  the  Dwapara  Yuga  righteousness  was  diminished  by  a  half. 
The  A'eda  became  fourfold.  Some  men  studied  four  Vcdas, 
otliers  three,  others  two,  others  one,  and  some  none  at  all. 
Ceremonies  were  celebrated  in  a  great  variety  of  ways.  From 
the  decline  of  goodness  only  few  men  adhered  to  truth.  When 
men  had  fallen  away  from  goodness,  many  diseases,  desires,  and 
calamities,  caused  by  destiny,  assailed  them,  by  which  they  were 


YUGAN-DHARA  —  YUYUTSU.  383 

severely  afflicted  and  driven  to  practise  austerities.  Others 
desiring  heavenly  bliss  offered  sacrifices.  Thus  men  declined 
through  unrighteousness. 

In  the  Kali  Yuga  righteousness  remained  to  the  extent  of 
one-fourth  only.  Practices  enjoined  by  the  Vedas,  works  of 
righteousness,  and  rites  of  sacrifice  ceased.  Calamities,  diseases, 
fatigue,  faults,  such  as  anger,  &c.,  distresses,  hunger,  and  fear 
prevailed.  As  the  ages  revolve  righteousness  declines,  and  the 
people  also  decline.  When  they  decay  their  motives  grow 
weak,  and  the  general  decline  frustrates  their  aims. — Muir,  i. 
144. 

In  the  K?'ita  Yuga  the  duration  of  life  was  four  thousand 
years,  in  the  Treta  three  thousand,  in  the  Dwapara  two  thou- 
sand. In  the  Kali  Yuga  there  is  no  fixed  measure.  Other  pas- 
sages of  the  Maha-bharata  indicate  "  that  the  K?'ita  Yuga  was 
regarded  as  an  age  in  which  Brahmans  alone  existed,  and  that 
Kshatriyas  only  began  to  be  born  in  the  Treta." 

YUGAN-DHARA.  A  city  in  the  Panjab.  A  people  dwell- 
ing there  and  in  the  vicinity. 

YUVANAaSWA.  a  king  of  the  Solar  race,  father  of  Man- 
dliatri.  A  legend  represents  this  son  as  being  conceived  by  and 
born  of  his  father. 

YUYA-EAJA.  '  Young  king.'  The  heir-apparent  to  a 
throne. 

YUYUDHANA.     A  name  of  Satyaki. 

YUYUTSU.  A  son  of  Dhnta-rash^ra  by  a  Yai.sya  handmaid. 
On  the  eve  of  the  great  battle  he  left  the  side  of  the  Kauravas 
and  joined  the  Pa?ic?avas.  When  Yudhi-sh^hira  retired  from 
the  world  he  established  Yuyutsu  in  the  kingdom  of  Indra- 
prastha. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


ALdlii-jau  =  Aswins. 
Abdhi-nagari  =  D  waraka. 
Abhayada,  69. 
Abhimani — Swaha. 
Abhiriipa  =  Kama. 
Ablioga— Varu«a. 
Abhra-matanga — Loka-pala. 
Abhramii — Loka-pala. 
Abhra-pisacha  =  E,ahu. 
Abhrottha  =  Vaj  ra. 
Abja=  Brahma,  58. 
Abja-hasta  =  Agni. 
Abja-yoni  =  Brahma,  58. 
A-dharma — NirritL 
Adhiratha — Kama. 
Adliirathi=  Kar?ia. 
Adhisima — 'Krishna,,  70. 
Adhwaiyu — Veda  350. 
Adhyaya — Veda  346. 
Adi-Kavi  =  Brahma. 
Adi-parva,  190. 
Adityas — Daksha. 
Adri-ja  =  Devi. 

Adrika — Satyavati,  Uparichara. 
Adr?'5yanti — Parasara. 
Adwaita — Madhava. 
Adwaita,  82. 
Agasti — VariiJz  a. 
Agastya — Bhregu. 
Aghora^/Siva. 
AghW?ii — Pushan. 
Agneyastra —  Vi,swa-karma. 
Agneyi — A  ngiras. 
Agni — Angiras,  Twash^re. 
Agni-bhu = Karttikeya. 


Agnivar?ia,  313. 
Agnivesa — Agneyastra. 
Agra-sandhani — Yama. 
Ahamyati,  69. 
Ahana  =  Ushas, 
AM — Indra. 
Ahlnagu,  313. 
Ahinara,  70. 

Ahinsa=  Nara-Narayana. 
Aic^avic^a  )      ^^ 
Ailavila    5=Kuvera. 

Aila — Puru-ravas. 
Aindri  =  Indra?ii,  Matr/s. 
A-ja=Kama.    . 
AjamicZha,  69. 
Ajyapas — Pitm. 
A-kacha  =  Ketu. 
Akhu-ratha=  Gane^a. 
Akrodhana,  70. 
Aksha  =  Ravawa. 
Alambusha — Idayida. 
Alarka,  69. 
Amaradri  =  Meru. 
Amarsha,  313. 
Amaru — Amaru  *S'ataka. 
Ambika— Chamu??f/a. 
Ambu-raja=:Varu?2a  338. 
Am?'ita  =  Dhanwantari. 
Amritaharawa  =  Garuc^a. 
Amurta-rajas — Dharmarawya. 
Anala  =  Agni,  Vasu. 
An-anga  =  Kama. 
Ananta  =  Devi. 
Ananta-saj'ana  =  Vishwu. 
Ananta = 5irsha — /Sesha. 

2  B 


;86 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


An-anya- ja  =  Kama. 
Anara^iva,  313. 
Anarta — Ku5a-sthali. 
Anavaratha,  69. 
Andliaka-riiju — Andhaka. 
Andhaka-v?'/:>h?n — Andhaka. 
Andha-tamisra — Naraka. 
Anenas — Ayus. 
Anenas  (tAvo),  313. 
Aiiga  —  Anil,    Champa,    Dirgha- 

tamas,  Kama,  Prt'thi. 
Angadi — Angada. 
Anga-raja  =  Kar/^a. 
Angaraka  =  Mangala. 
Angirasa  =  Br^haspati. 
Anila,  69. 

AnUa — Vasu,  Yavu. 
Anili  =  Hanumat. 
Animishacharya  —  Br^haspati. 
Anjana,  313. 
Anjana — Loka-pala. 
An  j  aneya  =  Hanumat. 
An^a — Aditya. 
Ansu,  70. 

Anupama — Loka-pala. 
Aniiratha,  69. 
An-uru  =  Aruna. 
Anusaras  =  Bakshasas. 
Aniisasana-parva,  190. 
Anuvaka— Veda  346,  348. 
Apa — Vasu. 
Aparita — Aparanta. 
Aptyas — Trita. 
Arawya-kawc/a — Bamaya??a. 
Ara^/Sani. 
Aravin,  69. 

Archananas — »S'yava5"vva. 
Aidra — Sandhya,  313. 
Arlia  =  Indra. 
Arlia-pati  =  Surya. 
Arish^a — Gandharva  106. 
Arish^a-iiemi  =  Saha-deva,     187, 

Ar  j  ikiya — Sapta-sindhava. 
A  rka-sodara — Loka-pala, 
Aruwa — Ja^ayu,  Sanii)ati,  Surya. 
Aru?ii — Nachiketas. 
A  lunoda — Manasa. 


Arushi — Aurva,  Chyavana,  75. 
Arvarivat — Pulaha. 
Arya  =  Devi. 
Ar3'aman — Aditya. 
Asani — Siwa,  296,  Vajra. 
Asaras  =  Bakshasas. 
Ash^adhyayi  —  Panini. 
Ash^aka — Galava,    Veda  346. 
Ash^a-kania  — Brahma  57. 
Asikni — Sapta-sindhava. 
Asi-patra-vana — Naraka. 
Asita  =  >S'ani. 

Asita-dansh^ra  =  Makara. 
Asitanga — Bhairava. 
Aslesha-bhava  —  Ketu. 
Asmaka,  313. 
A^maua  =  Aru??a. 
Asphujit  =  ^S'ukra. 
Asrania-parva,  190. 
Asra-pas  =  Dakinis. 
Asra-pas  —  Bakshakas. 
Asrik-pas  =  Bakshakas. 
Asrita — Tri-murti. 
Asruvindumati — Yayati. 
Asuras — Dadliyauch. 
Aswa,  77. 
Aswalayana  Brahma?ia  —  Brali- 

ma«a. 
Aswamedhadatta,  70. 
Aswa-medhika-parva,  190. 
Aswa-pati — Savitri. 
A«wini — As  wins. 
Aswins — 73,  75,  Sara?iyu. 
Atala— Patala. 
Atikaya  =  Bava?ia. 
Atithi,  313. 

Atithi-gwa  =  Divo-dfisa. 
Atma-Wiu  =  Kama. 
Auchathya  =  Dirgha-tamas. 
Audumbara  =  Yama. 
Aur/^avahha — Avatara  34. 
Aurvasiya — Agastya. 
Auttanapfidi  —  Dhruva. 
Avantis — Haihaya. 
Avara  =  Dcvi. 
Avastha — Vish»u  360. 
Ayana-ghosha — Badha. 
Ayana — Narayana. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX, 


387 


Ayodhya-kawc^a — Ramayawa. 
Ayoni-ja  =  Sita. 
Ayushnicm — Uttana-pada. 
Ayutayus— 70,  313. 

Babhiavi = Devi. 

Babhru  =  5iva. 

Bac^ava-mukha — Aurva. 

BafZavanala — Aurva. 

Bahikas — ^Sakala. 

Brihu— Aurva. 

Bahu-dara  =  Vajra. 

Baliugava,  69, 

Bahuka,  313. 

Bahulaswa,  313. 

Bahu-salin  =  Bhima. 

Bahv;7"chas — -Veda  350. 

Balaja  river,  62, 

Bala-kawc?a — Ramaya/ia. 

Balaki — Gargya. 

Bakmdliara — Bhima. 

Ballala — Bhoja-prabandha. 

Ballava  =  Bhima,  187. 

BaTia-bhai^^a — Kadambari. 

Bawa — Tripura. 

Banga — Dirgha-tamas. 

Bashkali — Ya  j  na  walky  a. 

Bhadra — Utathya. 

Bhadra-soma  =  Ganga. 

Bhadraswa — Dwipa,  Jambu-d. 

Bhaga  —  Aditya,     Daksha,     77, 
Pushan. 

Bhagavad-gita,  82. 

Bhagavat  =  ^Siva. 

Bhagavati  =  Devi. 

Bhagnatma  =  Soma. 

Bhaimi=  Damayanti. 

Bhajamana,  70. 

Bhaj  eratha — Ikshwaku. 

Bhakti — Narada  PuraHa. 

Bhanu — Satya-bhama. 

Bhanumat — Satya-bhama,  313. 

Bharadwaja,  69. 

Bharawi — Rahu. 

Bhara??i-bhii  —  Rahu. 

Bharata,  69. 

Bharata-varsha  —  Dwipa,    Jam- 
bu-d. 


Bharati  =  SarasAvati. 

Bharga,  70. 

Bharga-bhiimi,  70. 

Bhargava  —  /Sukra. 

Bhaskara  =  Svirya.  • 

Bhaswati — Surya. 

Bha^^a  Naraya7?a — Yenl  Sanhara. 

Bha^i^oji   Dikshita  —  Siddhanta- 

kaumadi. 
Bhaum  a  =  ]\Ian  gala. 
Bhava-ja  =  Kama. 
Bhavani  =  Devi. 
Bhavanmanyu,  69. 
Bhela — Dhanwantari. 
Bheru?2(ia — Yogini. 
Bhidu'a  =  Vaj  ra. 
Bhimaratha  (two),  69. 
Bhima-5asana  =  Yama. 
Bhisha;?a — Bhairava. 
Bhishma-parva,  191, 
Bhoja — Kri'ta-varman. 
Bhoja-kaifa — Rukmiii. 
Bhramari=  Devi. 
Bh^'igu — Aurva,  Twash^r^,  Khy- 

ati,    Pnthivi,   Pratardana,  S\\- 

kra. 
Bhrigus — Krtta-virya. 
Bhtimi,  34. 
Bhumi-ja  =  Sita. 
Bhumi-putra  =  Mangala. 
Bhtita-nayaki  =  Devi. 
Bhuvana — Viswa-karma. 
Bindu-sara — Maurya. 
Brahma — Bhr^gu. 
Brahma  =  Narada. 
Brahma-datta  —  Ghj'/tachi,    Ni- 

kumbha. 
Brahmadikas — Su-parwas. 
Brahmanaspati — Twash^ri. 
Brah  mawi — Mat?7's. 
Brahman- veda — Veda  351. 
Brahmastra — Aswatthaman. 
Brahma-varaha  —  Brahma-vai- 

varta. 
Brahma-vidya— Atharvan. 
Brahma-v/^mda,  57. 
Brahmi — 57,  SarasAvati. 
Brihada^wa,  313. 


388 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


BrAadbala,  313. 
B/'iliad-bhanu — Satya-blicinia. 
B^'iliadratha  —  70,    Jara-sandha, 

Maury  a. 
B;v'haduktha,  313. 
Br/haj-jataka — Varalia  Mililra. 
B?'/liaii-Manu — Maim. 
B?Yhan-nala  =  Arjuna,  187. 
Brilian  Naradiya   Pura/ia — Na- 

rada  Purawa. 
Bn'haspati — Pr/thi. 
Br/hat  —Dliarma-sastra. 
B/v'hatkshatra,  69. 
Buddha,  26,  38,  68. 

Chakora — Chandra-ketu. 
Chakra — Chakra-varti. 
Chakra-vac^a,  "|  ^ 
Chakra- vala,  /  Lokaloka. 

Chakshas  =  Br^'haspati. 

Chakshu — Sapta-sindhava. 

Champadhipa  =  Kar?ia. 

Chanchala  =  Lakshmi. 

Cha?ic^ika  =  Devi. 

Chawf^a — Chamu«c?a,  Devi. 

Chanda — Yama. 

Chandeswara  —  Vivada  Katna- 
kara. 

Chandra-hhaga  —  ,S'rimba,  Sapta- 
sindhava. 

Chandrabhanu — Satya-bhama. 

Cliandia-chuc^a  =  Bhairav^a. 

Chaudramas — Chandra-gupta. 

Chandra-sekhara  =  /S^iva. 

Chara  =  Mangala. 

Charak-puja — Devi. 

Charvi,  174. 

Chatur-ruiana  =  Brahma,  57. 

Cliatur-bhuja  =  Visli?ai. 

Chatur-niukha=  Brahma,  57. 

Chatur-var?ia — Varna. 

Chaturvedas — Viirm. 

Chhfiga-ratha — Agui. 

Chhala,  313. 

Chhidaka=  Vajra. 
Cldnnna-mastaka^Devi. 
Chirad  =  Garuf^a. 
Chitra-ratha,  65,  69,  70,  138. 


Chitra-5ikhanc?inas — i?/shig. 
Chitra-vahana — Chitrangada. 
Chola — Panf/ya. 
Chunchu,  313. 
Chyavana — ]Mada. 

Dadhi — Dwipa. 

Dahanopala  =  Stirya-kanta. 

Daitya — Asura. 

Daitya-guru  —  /S'ukra. 

Daivata^Nirukta. 

Daksha — Aditya,  Viswa-devas. 

Daksha- j  a  =  Devi. 

Dakshaya  =  Garuf/a. 

Daksheya  =  Pa?iini. 

Dakshi — Pa/iini. 

Dakshiwa — Aktiti,  Arjuna  23. 

Dakshi«a  =  Devi — Yajna. 

Dakshiwasa-pati  —  Yama. 

Dala,  313. 

Dama,  77. 

Damaru — SixB;. 

Dambholi  —  V  a  j  ra. 

Damodara  Mi,sra  —  Hanuman-- 

Na^aka. 
Danava — Asura. 
Da«c/a-dhara = Yama. 
Dandasukas  —  Bakshakas. 
Da?ic?i=Yama. 
Dantakura,  162. 
Darpaka  =:  Kama. 
Daruka  =  /Stityaki. 
Dasa — Arya. 
Dasa-bhuja  =  Devi. 
Dasa-kan^ha = Bavawa. 
Dasa-nandini  =  Satya- vati. 
Da^a-ratha  —  Ja^ayu,    Maurya, 

A*/shya-5?'mga. 

Da6arha,  69, 

Daseyi  =  Satya- vati. 

Dasma  .      __  . 

Pushan. 


Dasma-varchas 
Dasra  =  Pushan. 
Dasyu — Arya. 
Dattaka — Magha. 
Datteya=  Indra. 
Dcva-bliuti  —  Gang;!. 
Deva-brahmiX=  Narada. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


389 


Deva-giri — Bliagavata  45,  Maya, 

Vopa-deva. 
Devaka — Yiidlii-sh^hira. 
Deva-kshattra,  69. 
Devamif/liuslia,  70. 
Deva  mitra  =  ^Sakalya. 
Devana    Blui^^a— Dattaka  Clian- 

drikix,  Smr/ti  Cliandrika. 
Deva-nagari—  Saraswati. 
Devanani-piya  =  Asoka. 
Deviinika,  313. 
Devantaka — Havana. 
Deva-parvata  =  INIeru. 
Deva-pati  =  Indra. 
Deva-rata — 69,  313. 
Deva-sena  —  Jayanti. 
Deva-5ravas — Ekalavya. 
Devatitlii — 70. 

Deva-vardhaka — Viswa-karma. 
Devika — Nidagha,Yudhi-sli^liira. 
Dhanaka — K^^ta-virya. 
Dhanus — 36. 
Dllal^^vanta^i — 69. 
Dhara — Vasu. 
Dharani — LakshmT. 
Dharani-suta  :=  Sita.  ' 

Dharma — Nara  Narayana,  Haris- 

chandra. 
Dharma-jna  =  Tri-jaifa. 
Dhaiimya — Dharma-6fastra. 
Dhislia^^a — Br^haspati. 
Dhr^'sh^a-ketu — 69,  313. 
Dhrish^a — Manii. 
Dhriti — 313,  Viswa-devas. 
Dhruva — Vasu. 
Dhruvasandlii,  313. 
Dhuma-ketii  =  Agni. 
Dhuri — Viswa-devas. 
Dhwani — Vmva-devas. 
Dhyushitaswa — 3 1 3. 
Didivis  =  Br^liaspati. 
Dilipa,  70. 
Dimbhaka — Hansa. 
Dina-kara  =  Surya. 
Dipaka  =  Kama. 
Dirgha-bahu,  313. 
Dirgha-tamas — Bharadwaja,U5ij. 

69. 


Dirghayus  =  Marka?ic?eya. 
Divodasa,  69,  104. 
Divya-ratna — Clii  nta-mawi. 
Draiiwayana  =  As  wattliaman, 
Dridbaswa,  313. 
Drisana  =:  Virocbana. 
Dr/sbadwati    river  —  Brabnia- 

varta. 
Dro>ia — Jarita. 
Drowa-parva,  191. 
Drii-gba7«a  =  Brabma,  59 . 
Drubiwa  =  Brabma,  59. 
Drubyu — Vaibbojas. 
Dugdba — Dwipa. 
Du/i-saba — Narmada. 
Dundu  =  Vasu-deva. 
D  u]-ga-  pu  j  a — D  e  vi. 
Dur-vasas — Mudgala. 
Dusbyanta,  69. 
Dwadasa-kara   )      t  -      • 
Dwadasaksba    \  =  I^^rttikeya. 

Dwai-matura=  Gawesa. 
Dwaita — Madbava. 
D  waraka  =  Kiisa-stbali. 
D  wi-deba  =  Gsmessk. 
Dwi-ja — Var«a. 
Dwita — Trita. 
Dwivida — Bala-rama  41. 
Dya  Dwiveda — Niti-manjari. 
Dyaiis  =■  Usbas. 
Dyava-pntbivi — Dyaus. 
Dyotaiia  =  Usbas. 
Dyiimat,  69. 
Dyumayi  =  Sanjna. 

Eka5?'mgas — Pitre's. 
Ekata — Trita. 

Gabbastiman  =  Surya. 
Gabliastimat — Bbarata-varsba, 

Dwipa,  Patala. 
Gada — Au  gada. 
Gada — Visb^m  361. 
Gadagadau  =  Aswins. 
Gada-yitnu  =  Kama. 
Gadbi — Kusambba. 
Gadbi-ja 


Gadbi-nandana 


—  Viswamitra. 


390 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


—  Gawesa. 


Gag;ane5wara  =  Garur/a. 
Gaganolmuka  =  Mangala. 
Gajanana 
Gaja-vadana 
Ga;ia-nayaki  =  Devi. 
Gawa-parvata  =  Kailasa. 
Ganda- vaha  =  Vayu. 
Gandha-kali     ) 
Gandha-vati     [  =Satya-vatT. 

Gandha  -  madana  —  Kula  -  parva- 

tas. 
Gandharva — Bharata  -  varsha, 

Dwipa. 
Gandharvas,  99. 
Gandhan^  Somada — Urmila. 
Ganga-ja  =  Karttikeya. 
Ganga-putra  =  Karttikeya. 
Ganga — Sapta-sindhava. 
Gardhabila — Vikramaditya. 
Garga — Kala  -ya  van  a. 
Gargya-balaki — A  j  ata-5atrn, 
Gargya — Dliarma-sastra,  >Syala; 

Yayati. 
Garhapatyas — Pitn's. 
Garutman  =  Garut^a. 
Gatu  =  Gandharva. 
Gauri — Mandhatri. 
Gautama — Kr^'pa. 
Gavalgawa    )      _, 
Gavalgani     }  =Sanjaya. 

Gaya — ^Siva  299. 
Gha^odbhava  =  Agastya. 
Gbatotkacha — Alambusha. 
Ghrita — D  wipa. 
Giri5a  =  >S'iva. 
Gish-pati  =  Brj^'haspati. 
Go-kanza — Aparanta. 
Gomati — Sapta-sindhava. 
Go-meda — Nava-ratna. 
Go-mcdaka  Dwipa — Dwipa. 
Gonardlya  —  Patanjali. 
Gomkaputra  =  Patanjali. 
Gopa — Gaupayanas. 
Gopi-natha — Kautuka-sarvaswa. 
Gotama — K?'ipa. 
Grahadhara  =  Dhniva. 
Graha-rfija  =  Surya. 
Granthika  =  Nakula,  187. 


Gridhu  =  Kama. 
G7vtsu  =  Kama. 
Guhya — Tri-mtirti. 
Gupta-chara= Bala-rama. 

Haihayas — Bahu. 

Haimavati  =  Devi. 

Hala,  41. 

Hala  =  Bala-rama. 

Halayudha  Bha^^a — Abhidhana. 

Hansa-vahana=  Brahma  57. 

Hanushas  =.  Bakshasas. 

Hara-5ekhara=  Ganga. 

Hari-chandana — Pancha-vr^ksha, 

Harita,  313. 

Harita — Chyavana,  75. 

Hari-varsha — Dwipa,  Jambu-d. 

Haryaswa — Galava,  (three)  313. 

Harsh  a    Vikramaditya  —  Kali- 

dasa,  Nava-ratna. 
Hastina-piira — Bala-rama,  Savh- 

ba, 
Hatakeswara — Patala. 
Havishmats— Angiras. 
Haya-griva,  36. 
Hayas,  162. 
Haya-5iras — Aurva. 
Haya-vahana — Revanta. 
Hema  Chandra — Abhidhana. 
Hemadri — Bhagavata  Purawa, 

Mem. 
Hema-mala — Yam  a. 
Heramba=  Gawesa. 
Hima-pa/if/ara — Loka-palas. 
Hira  =  Lakshmi. 
HiraTi-maya — Dwipa,  Jambu-d. 
Hira;?ya-ka6-ipu,  37,  A^isu-pala. 
Hirawyaksha,  37. 
Hira^yanabha,  313. 
Hladini — Sapta-sindhava. 
Hradin=:Vajra. 
Hraswaroma,  313. 
Ilrulika,  70,  /Sata-dhanvan. 
Iluta-bhuj  =  Agni. 
IIuta5a  =  Agni. 

Ichchha-vasu  =  Kuvcra. 
Idduraati — Aja. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


391 


Ijya = Briliaspati. 

Ikshu — Dwipa. 

I  ksh  wakiis — Try  aruwa. 

I  la — Su-dyumna. 

Ilavila,  313. 

Ila-vnta  —  Dwipa,     Gandha-ma- 

dana,  Jambu-dwipa. 
Iliisha —  Kavasha. 
Indira  =  Lakshmi. 
Indra  —  64,    74,    75,    Dur-vasas, 

Twasli^/'i',  Krauncha. 
Indra  -  dwipa  —  Bharata  -  varsha. 
Indra-pramati — Ma?i(iukeya. 
Indra-prastha,  186, 
Indra?ii —  MatWs. 
Indrasena  ( — sena)  Nala. 
Indrejya  =  BWhaspati. 
Indu-ja— Narmada. 
Ira-ja  =  Kama. 

Irtivat — xA.iravata,  Arjuna,  Uliipi. 
Iravati — Pritlii,  Sapta-sindhava. 
l5ani=Devi. 
I5a-saklii  =  Kuvera. 
Ishma=Kama. 
Ish^ipachas  =  Bakshasas. 
Iswara   K?'ishwa — Sankhya-kari- 

ka. 
I5\vari  =  Devi. 

Jagad-dhatri  =  Devi. 
Jagad-gaiiri = Devi. 
Jagad-gauri  =  INIanasa. 
Jagad-isa — Hasyarwava. 
Jagau-mata  =  Devi. 
Jagan-natha,  62. 
Jasan-natha    Tarkalankara — Vi- 

vada  Bliangar;iava. 
Jahanaka  =  Maha-pralaya. 
Jahnu,  69. 
Jala — Dwipa. 
Jaladhi-ja=  Lakshmi. 
Jala-kantara  =  Vayu. 
Jala-murtti  =  /Siva. 
Jala-pati  =  Varu?ia,  338. 
Jala-rupa  =  Makara. 
Jamblia-bliedin — Jambha. 
Jambhala-datta — Vetala  Pancha- 

vinsati. 


JambH-nadi — Sapta-sindhava. 
Janaka — Yaj  nawalkya. 
Janaka-piira=  INIithila. 
Jara — Jara-sandha. 
Jaras — /S'amba. 
Jarasandha-jit  =  Bhima. 
Jarat-karu — Astika. 
Jaritari — Jarita. 
Jasuri=:Vajra. 
Jata — Haihaya. 
Ja^a- dhara  =  /Siva. 
Jiita-vedas  =  Agni. 
Jay  a,  313. 

Jaya-deva  —  Prasanna-Baghava. 
Jaya-dlnvaja — Talajangha, 
Jaya — Yogini. 
Jaya  =  Yudhi-sh^hira,  187. 
Jayad-bala  =  Saha-deva,  1 87. 
Jayani  =  Jayanti. 
Jay  anta  =  Bhima,  187. 
Jayanti — /Siikra. 
Jayasena,  69. 
Jaya-seiia  =  Nakula,  187. 
Jhajhodari  —  Satya-vati. 
Jhashanka  =  Aniruddha. 
Jihma-yodhiii  =  Bhima, 
Jiniuta,  69, 
Jishwu  =  Indra. 
Ji  va  =  BWhaspati. 
Jnana-kaw(fa — Veda  345. 
Jwala-mukhi — Pii(ha-sthana. 
Jyamagha,  69. 
Jyotir-lingam — Lingam. 
Jyotir    Iswara — Dhtirta-samaga- 
ma. 

Kabandha — Rahu. 
Kachchhapa — Nidhi. 
Kadraveya — Kadru. 
Kadvat — Ka. 
Kaka-dhwaja  =  Aurva. 
Kakudmati — Pradyumna. 
Kalar=;Siva,    Bhairava,  Viradha, 

Viswa-devas,  Yama. 
Kalakeli  =  Kama. 
Kalangani  —  Satya-vati. 
Kalanjara  =  *S'iva. 
Kalanjari  —  Devi. 


392 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


Kalankura  =  Kansa. 

Kala-purusha — Yama. 

Kalas — Pitrz's. 

Kala^i-suta  =  Agastya. 

Kala-siitra — Naraka. 

Kfila-yavana — 167,  /Syala. 

Kali — Nala. 

Kalichi — Yama. 

Kali-gha^ — Pi^ha-sthana. 

Kali-karaka  =  Narada. 

Kalinda — Kalindi,  Yamuna. 

Kalindi-karsha;;a  =  Bala-rama. 

Kalinga — Anu,  Dirgha-tama^. 

Kalpa-v;■^k.sha — Pancha-vriksha. 

Kalyawa — Kalanas. 

Kama — Vach,  Viswa-devas. 

Kama-chariii=  Garuc/a. 

Kama-dull  =  Kama-dhenu. 

Kama-kala    ) 

Kama-patni  \  =Ilati. 

Kama-priya  ' 

Kamakhya  =  Devi,  Kalika  Pa- 
rana. 

Kamala  =:  Lakshmi. 

Kamalakara  —  Nirnaya  -  sindhu. 

Kamala-yoni  =  Brahma. 

Kamana  =  Kama. 

Kamarupa  Tirtha  —  Kalika  Pu- 
rawa. 

Kama-rupin — Vidya-dhara. 

Kama-sutras — Vatsyayana. 

K  a  may  us  =  Garuc^a. 

Kami  =  Rati, 

Kiim-pala  =  Bala-rama. 

Kamya — Priya-vrata. 

Kawc?a — Veda  348. 

Kandasara — Indra. 

Kawt/ika — Veda  348. 

Kanina=Karwa,  also  =  Vyasa. 

Kanja 

Kanja-ja 

Kan  j  ana  —  Kama. 

Kanka=:  Yudhi-shdiira,  187. 

Kawtaka= Makara. 

Kantu  =  Kama. 

Kawwa  -  sakhii — /S'atapatha  -  briili- 
mawa. 

Kanya  =  Dcvi. 


Brahma  58. 


=  Rama. 


Kapala — Bhairava. 

Kapala-malin  =  Siwdi. 

Kapalini  —  Devi. 

Kapila — Loka-palas. 

Kapi-prabhu 

Kapi-ratha 

Kapiseya — Kapisa. 

Kapi-vaktra  =  Narada. 

Karambhad  =  Pushan. 

Karambhi,  69, 

Karburi  :=  Devi. 

Karburas  =  Rakshasas. 

Kardama — Angiras,  Daksha  77. 

Kare?iu-mati — Nakula. 

Kari-mukha  =  Gawe^a. 

Karma-ka?^o?a — Veda  345. 

Karma-sakshi  =  Surya. 

Karwa-moti  =  Devi. 

Karwa-parva,  191. 

Kar/ii — Ugrasen  a. 

Kar;iikachala  =  Meru. 

Karpura-manjari — Raja  *S'ekhara. 

Kai-piira-tilaka — Yogini. 

Karshwi  =  Kama. 

Karttikeya — Kraun  cha. 

Karu  —  Viswa-karma,. 

Karur — /S'alivahana. 

Karusha — Danta-vakra,  Manu. 

Kasa,  69. 

Kaserumat  —  Bharata  -  varsha, 

Dwipa. 
Kasi — Amba. 
Ka^iraja,  69. 
Kasyapa — Gandharva. 
Katy ayani  =  Devi,  Ya j  naAvalkya. 
Kaumari — Karttikeya. 
Kaumudika — Yogini. 
Kaunapas  =  Rakshakas. 
Kausalya — Dasaratha. 
Kaushitaki   )  Agastya,  Lopamud- 
Kausitaki      )      ra. 
Kausiki  =  Devi,  Satya-vati. 
Kau^ilya — Cha;iakya. 
Kauveri,  174. 
Kavi  -  kar;?a  -  pura  —  Chaitanya, 

Cliandrodaya. 
Kavi^/Sukra,  Swadlia, 
Kavya=/S^ukra. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


393 


J^"^^"^'    (    Pitns. 
Kavyas,    ) 

Kaya — Ka, 

Kelikila  =  Kati. 

Ke5a  =  Varu2ia  338. 

Ke^aii — Hanumat. 

Kesini — Sagara,  Asamanjas. 

Ketu-mala — Dwipa,    Jambu-dwi- 

pa. 
Ketu-mati — Kaikasi. 
Ketumat,  69. 
Khageswara  =  Garuc/a. 
Klia?if/a — Veda  346. 
Khandapawi,  70. 
Kha?ic/a-para5u  =  Parasu-rama. 
Kliawc^ava — Agni. 
Kha-pura  =  Saublia. 
Kharba— Nidhi. 
Kharwas  =  Valakhilyas. 
Khasatmajas — Kha^as. 
Khechara — Vidya-dhara. 
Khetaka — Bala-rama  41. 
Khinkira — Kha^wanga. 
Khyati — Lakshmi. 
Kilala-pas  =  Rakshasas. 
Kim-purusha-dwipa  —  Dwipa, 

Jambu-d. 
Kinkira  =  Kama. 
Kin-nara-dwipa — Dwipa. 
KiratI  =  Devi  =  Ganga. 
Kiritin  =  Vish?iu. 
Kirtiman — Uttana-pada. 
Kisbkindhya-ka/io?a — Ramayawa. 
Kitava — Ultika. 
Kona  =  >S'ani, 
Konkana — Rewuka. 
Kratha,  69. 
Kratii — Viswa-devas. 
Kratu-dwisbas  =  Daityas, 
Krauucha-dwipa — Dwipa. 
Kravyad— Agni,  Rakshasas. 
Kmaswa,  313. 
Knsb^ia  =  D  raupadi. 
Knsh;ia-kavi — Kansa-badha. 
Kn'shna-nn^ra — Prabodba  Chan- 

drodaya. 
KWta,  313. 

Krita-dhwaja— Ke^i-dhwaja. 


Kntanta  =  Yama. 

Kn'taratba,  313. 

KHti,  313. 

Krztirata,  313. 

Kritti-vasas  =  /Siva. 

Kroda  =  ;Sani. 

Krodha — Bhairava,  Daksha  77. 

Krosb^ri — Angada. 

Krosh^u,  69. 

Krumu — Sapta-sindbava. 

Krura-dris  \  —o     • 

Krura-lochana     \  -'^aiii- 

Kshama — Pulaba. 

Kshapa^as  =  Rakshasas. 

Ksbattra-vreddhi — Ayiis,  69. 

Ksbema-dbanwan,  313. 

Kshemaka,  70. 

Ksbemaii,  313. 

Kshira — Dwipa. 

Ksbirabdbi-tauaya  =  Lakshmi. 

Kshiti  =  Maha-pralaya. 

Kubha —  Sapta-sindhava. 

Kubja,  166. 

Kuc^mala — Naraka. 

Ku-ja  =  Devi. 

Kulisa  =  Va  j  ra. 

Kumara  =  Karttikeya. 

Kumaraka — Dwipa, 

Kumara-su  —  Ganga. 

Kumbba-sambbava  =  Agastj-a. 

Kumbhina^i — La  va  w  a. 

Kumuda — Dig-gaja,  Loka-pala. 

Kumuda-pati=  Soma. 

Kunda — Nidhi. 

Kuni,  313. 

Kunjara  =  Agastya. 

Kun  j  ararati —  /Sar  abb  a . 

Kunti,  69. 

Ku-pati — Bhairava. 

Kuru — Viswa-devas. 

Kuru-vatsa,  69. 

Kusa — Dbarmarawya. 

Kusa-dhwaja — VedavatT. 

Ku5a-dwipa — Dwipa. 

Knsamba — Gadhi. 

Ku5a-nabba — Ghrttachi,    Kanya- 

kubja,  Vayu. 
Ku5a-rava — Maitreya. 


394 


SANSKRIT  INDEX, 


Ku^ika,  74. 
Ku^a-ja  =  Drona. 
Ku-tanu  —  Kuvera. 
Kuthumi — Dliarraa-sastras. 
Kuvalaya^^wa,  69. 

Laghu — Dharma-^astra. 
Lakhima-devi — Vivada  Chandra. 
Lakshma?ia      (author)  —  >S'arada- 

tilaka. 
Lakshmi-pati = Vish^iu. 
Lalita-vistara — Gathas. 
Lamba-kar/ia  =  Ga;^esa. 
Lambodara  =  Ga?ie5a. 
Lanka-dahi  =  Haiiumat. 
Lavawa — D  wipa. 
Likhita  —  Dharma-^astra,  /S'an- 

kha. 
Linga — Bhrigu. 
Lochaiia — Vmva-devas. 
Lohita  =  Mangala. 

Loha-daraka,   )  ^^      ^ 

T   1  1  \  JNaraka. 

Loha-5anku,     ) 

Loka-chakshuh  =  Surya. 

Lokakshi — Dharma-sastra. 

Loka-mata  =  Lakshmi. 

Lola=Lakshmi. 

Lopa-mudra — Agastya. 

Mada  =  Vani?iani. 
Madambara — Loka-palas. 
Madhava — Jaiminiya. 
Madhavacharya — Sarva-dar^ana- 

sangraha. 
Madhavi — Galava. 
Madhu — Lavana. 
Madhu — Mathurfi,  69. 
Madhu-dipa  =  Kama. 
Madhu-priya  =  Bala-rama. 
Madhu-sudana — Kai^abha. 
Madhu-vana — ]\Iathura. 
Madhyandina-sakha — *S'atapatha- 

brrihma7?a. 
Madira — Kadambari. 
Madravas — Viswa-devas. 
Magha-bhava  =  /S'ukra. 
Mahil-bhadra — Manasa. 
Maha — Bhairava. 


i\Iaha-chanda — Yama. 
Mahadhn'ti,  313. 
Maha-kali  —  Devi. 
Mahamari  =  Devi. 
Maha-maya  =  Devi.  . 
jNIaha-  maya — Patala. 
INIaha-naraka — Naraka. 
Mahandeva — >S'iva  296. 
Maha-padma — Loka-palas,  Nid- 

hi. 
Maha-padma  Nanda  —  Chandra- 

gupta. 
Maha-prasthanika  Parva,  192. 
Maharajika — Gana. 
Maha-raurava — Naraka. 
Maharoman,  313. 
]\Iahasuri  =  Devi. 
Mahaswat,  313, 
Mahatala — Patala. 
INIaha-vichi — Naraka. 
Maha-virya=  Sanjna. 
Maha- virya  =  Surya  313. 
Mahesa  =  ,Siva. 
Mahe^wari  —  Devi. 
]\Iahe5wari — Mat?-is. 
Mahisha-niardini=  Devi. 
Mahishmati—  Ravawa. 
Mahi-suta  =  Mangala. 
Maitra-varu«i  =  Agastya. 
]\Iakara— Nidhi. 
Makara-ketu  =  Kama. 
]\Ialaya-gandhini — Yogini. 
Malini — Visravas. 
Malla-naga  =  Vatsj'aj^ana. 
]\Iamata — Br/haspati. 
Mamata — Dirgha-tamas. 
INIamateya  =  Dirgha-tamas. 
INIamma^a    Bha^^a — Kavya   Pra- 

kasa. 
Mana  =  Agastya. 
M  an  asas — Pi  trt's. 
Manasyu,  69. 
ISIanavas — Manu-sanhita. 
Manda  =  /Sani. 
INIandfikini  =  Ganga. 
Manda-pala — Jarita. 
Mandara,  36. 
Mandara — Pancha-vr/ksha. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


395 


]\ra«f/avl,  47. 
Ma«i-bhitti — /Sesha. 
Mani-chaka — Chandra-kanta. 
INIawi-chvipa — *S'esha. 
Mani-griva  =  Kuvera. 
Mani-niandapa — /S'esha. 
Ma;a-pura — Arjima  23,  Babhru- 

vahana. 
Mauo-ja  =  Kama. 
Manu  Savar^ii — Chliaya. 
JNIara  =  Kama. 
Mariclii — Agnishwattas. 
Mar j  ani — Yogini. 
Marka?if/eya — Aiigiras. 
Marttawc^a — Aditi. 
Maru  (two),  313. 
Marud-vredha — Sapta-sindhava, 
Maruta — Maruts. 
Maruti  =  Hanumat. 
Marut-putra  =  Hanumat. 
Maruts — Diti. 
Marutwan  =  Indra. 
Matali — Yayati, 
;Ma  tali — Yogini. 
INIatsya — Uparichara. 
Matsyodari  =  Satya-vati. 
Mi5,tangi  =  Devi. 
Maudgalya — Mudgala. 
INIauryas — Asoka,  Chandra-gup- 

ta. 
Mausala-parva,  191. 
INIaya — Patala. 
Maya,  189. 
Maya-suta  =  Kama. 
Mayi  =  Kama. 
Mayu-raja  =  Kuvera. 
Mayus  —  Kin-naras. 
Medas — Kai^abha. 
INIedhatithi — Asanga. 
Medhavin,  70. 
Megha-vahana  =  Indra. 
Mehatnu —  Sapta-sindhava. 
Mekala,  ) 

IVIekala-kanya,  ) 
Mena — 'Aparna. 
Meru — i^ishabha. 
MinakshI — Kuvera. 
IVIinaratha,  313. 


Mekala. 


INIisraka-vana  =  Swarga. 

Mitaksliara — Su-bodliini. 

Mitra — Aditya,  Daksha  78,  Va- 

ruwa. 
Mitra-misra — Vira  Mitrodaya. 
Mithila— Nimi. 
Mitrasalia — Kalmasha-pada. 
Mr/da,       )      ^ 
Mr^Wani,   \  =^^^^- 
MWdu,  70. 
Mr/ganka  =  Soma. 
Mr^ga-5iras — Sandliya,  Yajna. 
Mrz^ka??£/a—  Marka?ic?eya. 
MWttikavati — Bhoja. 
Mre'tyun  jaya  =  /Siva. 
Muhira  =  Kama. 
Mukta-kesi  =  Devi. 
Mukuuda  =  VisliTiu — Nidhi. 
Mulaka,  313. 

Muwc?a  =  Ketu —  Cliamuwc?a. 
Muwc?a-mala,  299. 
Muni,  106. 

Mura — Chandra-gupta. 
Murari  Misra,      )  Anargha  Rag- 
Murari  Na^aka,  )  hava. 

Murmura  =  Kama. 
Muru,  163,  167,  174. 
Musala,  41. 
Musali = Bala-rama. 

Nabhaga,  313. 

Nabliaga — Manu. 

Nablias,  313. 

Nabhas-cliara = Vidya-dhara. 

Nablii — i^/sliabha. 

Nablii-j a  =  Brahma,  58. 

Nadi-deha — Nandi. 

Nadi-ja  =  Bhishma. 

Naga-dwipa  —  Bharata-varsha, 

Dwipa. 
Naga-kuwcZala,  299. 
Naga-malla — Loka-pala. 
Naga-natlia, 
Naga-nathesa, 
Nagantaka  =  Garu^a. 
Naga-pasa — Varu??a. 
Nagas  —  Gandharvas,   Janame- 

jaya. 


Linga. 


396 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


Nagnajit,  162. 
Naigama— Nirukta- 
Naighaii^uka — Nirukta. 
Nakshatra-natha  =  Soma. 
Nakshatras— Daksha  77. 
Naktancliaras  -  Raksliasas. 

Nala,  313. 

Nalini— Sapta-sindhava. 

Nanda— Nidhi. 

Nanda  PancZita  —  Dattaka    INIi- 
mausa,  Vaijayanti. 

Naiidaka — Vish?^u,  361. 

Nandana— Indra  127,  Kar;?a. 

Naudini — Dilipa,  Vasishdia. 

Nandivardhana,  313. 

Narada — Utathya. 

Naradiya    Dharma-sastra  —  Na- 
rada. 

Nara-Narayana  — Badari,  Dam- 
bhodbliava. 

Narantaka — Ravana. 

Nara-raja  =  Kuvera. 

Nava-ratha,  69. 

NarayaTza,  78. 

Nari-kavacha,  313. 

Narishyanta — Manu. 

Nasatyas  =  Aswins. 

Navarchi  =  Mangala. 

Nayaki—Yoginl. 

Netra-yoni  =  Indra. 

Kicliakru,  70. 

Nidhana — Nidhi. 

Nidhi,  174. 

Nighiia — Prasena. 

Nikara— Nidhi. 

Nikasha — Pisitasana.s. 

Nikasliatmajas. 

Nikumbha — Bhanumati,  313, 

Nilakan^ha   Bha^^a  — Vyavahara 
Mayukha. 

NHa-Nidlii. 

Nihi-vastra  =  Bala-riima. 

Nimi — Janaka,  Kshemaka. 

Nimisha — Nimi. 

Niramitra,    70,    Kshemaka,    Na- 
kula. 

N  i  r- j  ara — Am  riia. 
Nir-riti—  Loka-palas. 


Nir-vriti,  69. 
Nisakara  =  Soma, 
Nisa^ha — Bala- ram  a,  41. 
Nishada— Prithl. 
Nishadha  (King)  313. 
Nikumbha — Devi. 
Nitala — Patala. 
Niti-ghosha — Brihaspati. 
Niti-5ataka — Bhartri-hari. 
Nitya  =  Devi, 
Nitya  =  Manasa. 
Nitya-yauvani  =  Draupadi. 
Nri-chakshas  =  Kakshakas. 
Nr/chakshush,  70. 
Nriga — Dhrishta-ketu,  Manu. 
Nrz'-jagdhas  =  Kakshakas. 
Nrtpanjaya,  70. 
Nyaksha  =  Parasu-rama. 
Nyaya-bhasha— Vatsyayana. 

Ogha,  163. 
Oshadhi-pati  =  Soma. 

Padma— Nidhi. 
Padma-lanchhana  =  Devi. 
Padma-nJibha  =  Vishnu. 
Padma  vati  =  Manasa. 
Pahnava  —  Pahlava. 
Paila — Indra-pramati. 
Pai^hinasi — Dliarma-sastra. 
Pa  j  ra — Kak  shivat. 
Pajriya — Kakshivat. 
Paladas  =  Kakshakas. 
PalaLas  =  Kakshakas. 
Palankashas  =  Kakshakas. 
Panchali  =  Draupadi. 
Panchami  =  Draupadi. 
Pancha-vinsa  —  Praut^ha    Brah- 

ma^ia. 
Panchayudha  =  Vishnu. 
Vsnidyn,  162. 
Pangu  =  /S'ani. 
Pankti-griva  =  Kiivawa. 
Pannaga-nasana  =  Garuc?a. 
Pan.sula  —  Kha^wanga. 
Panthana — Naraka. 
Parama— Tri-murti. 
Paramcsh^a  =  Brahma. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


397 


Parfingada  =  Arclha-nari. 

Paran-ja — India  127. 

Parava>ii — Kfirttikeya. 

Paravrit,  69. 

l*arijataka — Pancha-vn'ksha. 

Paripatra — Kiila-parvatas,  313. 

Pariplava,  70. 

Pari  vita,  57. 

Pariyatra— Kula-parvatas. 

Panifisa — Bho  j  a. 

Parsliati  =  Draupadi. 

Parsliwi  =  Kunti. 

Parushwi — Sapta-sindhaya. 

Parushya — Indra  127. 

Parvan — Rahu. 

Pasa — >S'iva  299. 

Pa^a-bhrit  =  Varuwa. 

Pasi  =  Yama, 

Pasupata — Arjuna  22. 

Pasu-pati  =  S'wsl. 

Patala,  37. 

Paulast  ya  —  Knvera. 

Pauloma — Kalaka. 

Paulomi  =  Indrawi. 

Paiinc^raka,  168. 

Pavaka — Agni, 

Pavamana — Agni. 

Pavamanya — Veda  351. 

Pavana-vyadhi — Uddliava. 

Pavani—  Sapta-sindhava. 

Pavi=:  Vajra. 

Phala  =  Bala-rama. 

Plienapas — Pitr/s. 

Phena-vahin  —  Vajra. 

Pi  j  a  van  a — Pa  i  j  a  vana. 

Pinilka — Siyn. 

Pinga  =  Devi. 

Pingala — Loka-pala. 

Pisuna  —  Narada. 

Pitabdhi  =  Agastya. 

Pitha — 162. 

Pidia-sthana — Kalika  Purana. 

Pitri-pati  =  Yama. 

Piy  usha  =  Aniv-ita. 

Piy  adasi  —  Asoka. 

Plaksha-dwipa — Dwipa. 

Plakshaga — Sapta-sindhava. 

Playoga — Asanga. 


Prabha  =  Alaka, 
Prabhakara — Soma  302. 
Prablianu — Satya-bhama. 
Prabhasa — Vas  u . 
Praclietas — Varu^ia. 
Prachinabarhis  —  Praclietas,    Sa- 

varw^a. 
Prachinvat — 69. 
Prachyas —  Chandra-gupta. 
Pragliasas  =  Rakshakas. 
Prag-jyotisha — Aditi. 
Praharshawa  =  Budha. 
Prahlada—  Nivata-kavacha. 
Pransu — Manii. 
Prasena — Jambavat. 
Prasenajit — Jamad-agni,  313. 
Pra^na — Veda  348. 
Prasusruta,  313. 
Prasuti — Swadha,  Swaha. 
Pratibandhaka,  313. 
Pratibhanu — Satya-bhama. 
Pratikshattra,  70. 
Prati-  margaka  —  Saubha. 
Pratipa — >Santanu. 
Prati-shdiana — Puru-ravas. 
Prati- vindhya,  96,  188. 
Pratyusha — Vasu,  Vi^wa-karma. 
Pravira,  69. 
Preta-raja  =  Yama 
Prishada5\va,  313. 
P/7'thu-laksha — Champa. 
Pn'thu-sravas,  69. 
Priti  —  Rati. 
Priti-jusha  =  tJsha. 
Priya-madhu  =:  Bala-rama. 
Priyam-vada  =  Vidya-dhara. 
Priya-vrata — Dakslia   76,    Dhru- 

va. 
Pulaha — Kardama. 
Piilaka=  Gaudharva. 
Pulakanga — Varuj^a  338. 
Pulastya — Dharma-sastra. 
Puloma — 74,  Kalaka. 
Puloman — 74,  Indra  126. 
Pu?ifZarika  —  Dig-gaja,   Loka-pa- 

las,  313. 
Punc/ra — Dirgha-tamas. 
Pu??ya-janas — Ku^a-sthali. 


393 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


Puwva-janas  =  Yakshas. 
Pura-jyotis — Agni. 
Purandara  =  Iiidra. 
Puriiliotra,  69. 
Purukutsa,  106,  313. 
Purumillia — Syava^wa. 
Puru-ravas — Viswa-devas. 
Pun^a-ganga  =  Narmada. 
Pushau — Aswins. 
Piislian,  77. 
Pushkara,  57. 
Pushkara-dwipa — Dwipa. 
Pushkara-srajau  =  Aswins. 
Pushkara — Varu?ia,  337. 
Pushpa-danta — Dig-gaja,    Katy- 

ayana,  Loka-pala. 
Pushpa-dhanus  =  Kama. 
Pushpa-giri— VaruMa,  33S. 
Pushpa-ketana  =  Kama. 
Pushpa-mitra — Yavanas. 
Pushpa-5ara  =  Kama. 
Puslipotka^a — Kutsa,  Visravas. 
Pushy  a,  313. 

Put — Manda-pala,  Vrii\\\. 
Puti-mr^ttika — Naraka, 
Ptit-kari — Bhogavati. 
Put-kari — Saraswati. 

Raga-laia  =  Pati, 
Paga-v/v'nta  =  Kama. 
Raghunandaua    Bha^^acharya. 

Daya  Tatwa,  Vyavahara  Tat- 

Ava. 
Raghu-pati — liaglm. 
Paivata — Kusa-sthali. 
Raja — Indra  126. 
Pa  j  a-raj  a  =  Ku  vera. 
Ilil  j  arshi  s — Yay  ati. 
Rajas — Purawa  246. 
Raj  a-.sckhara — Bal a  Ramaya?ia — 

Piachawc/a  Pa?i<iava. 


Ra 
Ra 
Ra 
Ra 
Ra, 
Ra 
Ra 


asI=:DevI. 

a-suya,  186. 

atridri=:Kailasa. 

ata-dyuti  —  Hanumat. 

i — Ay  us. 

o-gu»a — Tri-murti. 

ica— Visravas. 


=  Kama. 


Rakshaka — Asura. 

Rakshasendra  =  Kuvera. 

Rakta-dantI  =  DeA^i. 

Rakta-imksha  =  Garuf/ii. 

Rakta-pas  —  Rakshasas. 

Rakta-vija — Devi  87. 

Rama, 

Ramana, 

Rama-deva — Vidvan-^NIoda. 

Rambha — Aj'us. 

Ramyaka  —  D  wipa,    Jambu-  dwi- 
pa. 

Rantinara,  69. 

Rasa — Sapta-sindhava. 

Rasatala — Patala. 

Rasayana  =  Garuo?a. 

Rasmipas — Pitr/s. 

Rata-naiicha  =  Kama. 

Rathantara-kalpa — Brahma  Vai- 
varta. 

Rathastha — Sapta-sindhava. 

Rathaviti — »S'yava5wa. 

Ratha-yatra — Jagan-natha. 

Rathi-tara — Angiras. 

Ratna-garbha  =  Kuvera. 

Ratnakara — Vivada  Tant/ava. 

Ratna-sanu  =  Meru. 

Ratna-varshuka — Pushpaka. 

Ratri-charas  =  Rakshasas. 

Raudraswa — 69,  Ghritachi. 

Rauhinej^a  =  Budha. 

R  aura  va — Narak  a. 

Ravana — Vedavati, 

Ravawa-hrada — Manasa, 

Ravawi — Rava?ia. 

Ravi-uandana  =  Su-griva. 

Rewu, 

Rewuka, 

Reva, 

Revata, 

Reva — Kama,  Rati,  Narmada. 

i^ibhu — Kumfiras. 

i^ibhuksha  =  Indra. 

Ribhus — Aswins,  Twash^n. 

iiVcha,  70. 

i^/chas — Angiras,    Viddha  -  Ssi- 
labhanjika. 

^/chika — Galava. 


Jamad-asui. 


Raivata. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


399 


2?i(idlii  =  Devi. 

Bi]  u-kaya  =  Karttikeya. 

i^ijisha — Naraka. 

jRiks — Veda  346. 

i2i«aiitaka  =  Mangala. 

i?/ksha — 69,    70,    Kula-parvatas, 

Samvarawa,  Ehhi. 
Eita,  313. 
i?itadhAvaja,  69. 
^i'teyii — 69. 
i^itiijit,  313. 
Kochana — Viswa-devas. 
Rodhana  =  Budha. 
E,ohi??i — Budha. 
Rohit,  57. 
Rohitaswa  —  Agni,  Hari^-chan- 

dia,  313. 
Ruchaka,  69. 
Ruchi — Akuti,  Yajna. 
Rudra — Bliairava,  Daksha. 
Riidra  Bha^^a — Sri'ngara  Tilaka. 
Rudra-deva — Yayati-charitra. 
Rudra?ii  =  Devi. 

Rula-parvatas,  Samvarana,  Eishi. 
Rukmakavacha,  69. 
Rukmi^ii — Lakshmi. 
Ruma?ivat — Jamad-agni,Rewuka. 
Rupastra  =  Kiinia. 
Riimra  =  Aruwa. 
Rupa — Vidagdha  Madhava. 
Ruru — Bhaiiava. 
Ruruka,  313. 
Rusliadgu,  69. 


Sablm-parva,  191. 
^achl — Kutsa. 
Sada-dana — Loka-pala. 
Sada-gata  =  Vayu. 
Sadaswa=:*S^iva, 
Sadhya — Sadliyas. 
Sahasra-kirawa  =  Surya. 
Sahasraksha — Indra. 
Sahasra-nama — Vislmu  361. 
Sahasranika — Udayana. 
Saliishnii — Pulaha. 
Sahya — Kula-parvatas. 
Saindhavas — Jayad-ratlia. 
/S'aineya  =  Satyaki 


Sainhikeya  =  Raliu. 
/Sainyas — Garga. 
Sairibha  =  Swarga. 
Sairindhri  =  Draupadi. 
^Saka-dwipa — Dwipa. 
Sakakola — Naraka. 
/Sakala — Madra. 
/Sakara-bhari  =  Devi, 
S'akfiri  =  >S'alivahana. 
/Sakhala-sakha — Pratisakhya. 
^akini — Lanka. 
/Sakra-dhanus — Indra  127. 
/S'akra-dhwajotthana — Indra  127. 
>Sakta — Kalika  Pura^ia. 
/S'akti-dhara  =  Karttikeya. 
*S'aktri —  Parasara. 
A^akuni — Dur-yodhana,  69,  186. 
^S'akj^as — Chandra-gupta. 
>S'alankayana  =  Nandi. 
Salatura — Pawini. 
»Sali-5uka — Maurva. 
/Salmala-dwipa — Dwipa. 
/Salmali — Naraka. 
/Salmalin  =  Garuc^a. 
Salottariya  =  Pacini. 
>S'alya-parva,  191. 
/Samana  =  Yama. 
^S'amani-sliadas  =  Rakshasas. 
Samanga — Ashi^avakra. 
>S'amantaka  =  Kama. 
Samanta-panchaka  —  Para,su- 

rama. 
Sama  Raja   Dikshita — Dhurta- 

nartaka,  »S'ri  Dama  Charita. 
<Sanibha — Va  j  ra. 
Sambliuta,  313. 
^Sambhu— Vedavati. 
iSami-garbha — Sami. 
Samin,  70. 
Samnati — Kratu. 
Sampratapana — Naraka. 
Samudra-cliuluka  =  Agastya. 
Samudraru  =  Setu-bandlia. 
Samudriiru  =:  Timin. 
Samvara^m,  69. 
Samvara^ia — Kuru. 
Samvarta — Dharma-sastra,  Ma- 

rutta,  Avatara,  36. 


400 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


Yuga, 


Samvarttaka  —  Aurva,  Bala-ra- 
ma. 

Samyati,  69. 

Sanaka — Loka. 

Sananda — Loka. 

Satiat  =  Brahma. 

Sanat-kiimara — Loka. 

Sandhya-balas  =  Rakshasas. 

Sandhya — Kalika  Pura?ia. 

Saudhya,  ) 

Sandliyansa,    ) 

Sandipa;n,  166 — Panchajana. 

Sangata — IVIaurya. 

Sauhara — Bhairava, 

Sankara  =  Maha-pralaya. 

Sanhata — Naraka. 

Sanhataswa,  313. 

SsLni — Ga?ze5a,  Ja^ayu. 

/Sani-prasu  —  Chhaya. 

Sanjaya,  313. 

San  j  i  vana — Naraka. 

<Sankara  Dikshita  —  Pradyumna- 
vijaya. 

Sankasya — Kusa-dhwaja. 
j  Dharma-sastra. 

>Sankha,    ^  xi^iinn,  361,  Nidhi. 

/S'ankbanablia,  313. 

<S'ankhayana    Brahmawa — Brah- 
ma wa. 

Sankshepa    /Sankara-vijaya  — 
/Sankara  V. 

<Sanku — Nava-ratna. 

Sannati,  69. 

Sansara-guru  —  Kama. 

<S'anta — i2/shya-5rmga. 

Santaiia — Paiicha-vriksha. 

*STintaTiava=  Bhishma. 

Santati,  69. 

>9anti-])ai-va,  191. 

Sapta-j  ihva  =  Agni. 

Saptarchi  =  /S'ani. 

<S^ara-bhu  —  Karttikeya. 

^Saradfi  =  Saraswati. 

♦Sfiradwata  =  K?'ipa. 

Saraswati — Kavaslia. 

SaraswatI  (river) — Brahmavartta. 

5^ara-vana — Nandi^a, 

Sarayu,  Saryu — Sapta-sindhava. 


ii,     ] 


Vish?iu, 


Sarisrzkta — Jarita. 
/S'arkara-bhumi — Patala. 
*S'arngi-deva— Sangita-ratnakara. 
/S'arngika — Jarita. 
^Sarngin, 
Sarngi-pani 
Sarojin  =  Brahma. 
Sarparati  =  Garu^f a. 
Sarpa-sattrin  =:  Janamejaya. 
Sarpis — Dwipa. 
Sarvabhauma,  69. 
Sarva-bhauma — Dig-gaja,   Loka- 

pala, 
Sar  vaga — Bh  ima. 
Sarvakama,  313. 
Sarva-kama — iiitu-parwa. 
Sarva-mangala  =  Devi. 
Sarva-medha — Viswa-karma. 
(Sarvani^DevI. 
Sarvatma — Tri-miirti. 
Sarvatraga — Bhima. 
Sarva-varman — Ka-tantra. 
^Saryata — Chyavaua. 
>S'aryati — Haihaya. 
^Saryati  =  INIanu. 
S'asabindu,  69. 
/S'asa-dharman — IVIaurya. 
Sasartu — Sapta-sindhava. 
/Sasiyasi — Syava^wa. 
>S'aswata,  313. 
jSa^watas  =  Vyasa. 
/Satadyumna,  313. 
5atahrada — Viradha. 
/S'ata-kratu  =  Indra. 
/Satananda  =  Gotama. 
/Satanika,  96. 
/S^atanika  (two),  70,  188. 
/S'ata-parwa — /Sukra. 
/S'atarudriya — *Siva. 
Satata-ga  =  Vayii. 
^S'atatapa — Dhamia-^astra. 
Sati — Angiras,  Daksha. 
Sati  =  DevI. 

Satra-jit,      )  Jambavat,    Pra- 
Sattrajita,    )         sena,  167. 
/S'atru-ghna — Madhu. 
/Satrujit,  69. 
Sattwa — Purana. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


401 


Satwa-guna — Tri-miirti, 

Satwa-Purawa — Tri-muiti. 

Satwata,  70. 

Satya-dh?'jti — Kr^'pa,  313. 

Satyadhriti — Dhr/shta-ketu. 

Satyadlnvaja,  313. 

Satyaketu,  69. 

8aty  a — Vis  wa-  de  vas. 

Satyaratha,  313. 

Satyarathi,  313. 

ISaubala  —  /S'akuni. 

Saubali  =  Gandhari. 

Saubaleyi = Gandhari. 

Saubha,  162. 

Saubhadra  =  Abhimanyii. 

Saudasa  =  Kalmasha-pada. 

>S'auiiaka — Aswalayana,  BWhad- 
devata,  Gr2tsa-mada,  Prati- 
sakhyas. 

Saumanasa — Loka-pala. 
Saumya — Bharata-varsha,  Bud- 

ha,  Dwipa. 
Sauniyas — Pitns, 
^Saunakiya    Chaturadhyayika  — 

Pratisakhya. 
Saunanda — Bala-rama,  41,   Mu- 

sala. 
Saiiptika-parva,  191. 
Saura-Purawa  —  Brahma  Purawa. 
Sauti — Naimisha. 
Sauviras — Jayad-ratha, 
<S'avala  ~  Kama-dhenu. 
Savarna — Meru. 
Savarwa — Saranyfi, 
*S'ayaiii  Chandra  .Sekhara,    INIa- 

dhuraniruddha. 
Sa-yoni  —  Indra. 
»Sekhara — Dhnrta-samagania. 
Sena  =  Karttikeya. 
Seiia-pati  =  Karttikeya. 
Setu-kavya — Setu-bandha. 
iSevadhi — Nidhi. 
Shac^-angas  =  Vedangas. 
Sha^-kona  =  Vaj  ra. 
Sha^-pura — Nikumbha. 
Shodasansu  =  /Sukra. 
Siddhas — Amr^ta. 
Siddha-senai=  Karttikeya. 


/S'ighra,  313. 

/Sikhawc^ini — Sthuwa. 

/Sina — Garga. 

Sindhu-dwipa,  313. 

Sindhu — Sapta-sindhava. 

Sindhu-sauviras — Jayad-ratha. 

Sinha-rathi  =  Devi. 

Sinha-vahini  =  Devi. 

Sinhika — Ketu,  Rfihu. 

/S'lr/ia-pada  =  Yama. 

Sita  =  Lakshmi,  Vedavati. 

iS'ita-niarichi  =  Soma. 

Sita  (river) — Sapta-sindhava. 

Sitanana  =  Garuc/a. 

Sitan^u  =  Soma. 

Si^eyus,  69. 

Sitoda — Manasa, 

/S'iva — Ardha-nari,  Arjuna,  Bhri- 
gu. 

/Siva-duti — Devi. 

/Siva-gharma-ja  =  Mangala. 

<Siva-sarman — Prahlada. 

*Siva-sekhara  =  Soma. 

Smara  =  Kama. 

Smarta     Bha^^acharya  —  V^'ava- 
hara  Tatwa. 

Smartava — >S'ankaracharya. 

Smnti — Angiras,  Dharma-sastra. 
Snana-yatra — Jagan-natha. 
Soma — B?'diaspati,  Vach,  Vasii, 

Veda  347. 
Soma-deva  Bha^^a — Katha-sarit- 

sagara. 
Somapas — Pitn's,  Narmadii. 
Soma-sarman — Maurya,    Prah- 
lada. 
Somodbhava  =  Narmada. 
Sonita-pura — Aniruddha. 
>S'raddha — Angiras. 
/S'raddha-deva  =  Yama. 
Srash^n  =  Brahma,  59. 
/S'ravasti — Lava. 
/Sravasta,  313. 
/S'ribhanu — Satya-bliama. 

a  .  T^      J    I  Dasa  Kumara  Cha- 
on  Va,nai,  }       •-      t^-  i 

1      rita,  Kavya-darsa. 

Sri  Harsha  Deva — Naga-nandaua, 

Ratnavali. 

2  c 


402 


SANSKRIT  INDEX, 


Sri  Harsha — Naishadha  Charita. 

/S'ri-kantha  =  Bhava-bhuti. 

Sri  Kr/sh;ja  Tarkalankara — Daya 

Krama  Sangraha. 
/S'ri-naiidana  :=  Kama. 
^Sr/ngara-sataka — Bhartrj-hari. 
»S'rmgara-yoni  =  Kama. 
/S'ri  Paivata^ASri  >S'aila. 
»S'ri  Sihlana — >Santi-sataka. 
»Sruta  (two),  313. 
*9ruta-deva — ^S'i^upala. 
*S'ruta-karmaii,  96,  188. 
,S"ruta-kii-tti,  96,  188 — Kusa-dhwa- 

ja. 
*S^ruta-soma,  96,  188. 
Srutayus,  313. 
Stamba-mitra — Jarita. 
Sthrinu  =  >S'iva. 

►Sthapatya-veda — Vi^wa-karma. 
Stri  Parva,  191. 
Su-bala — Gandhari,  >S'akuiii. 
Sii-bandhu — Gaupayana. 
ASiibbachara — Yogini. 
/S^ubha-danti — Loka-palas. 
Sii-bbadra — Aniruddha. 
»S'iibba)igi  =  Rati. 
Subh  ami — Satya-bhama. 
Subhasa,  313. 
Subhaswaras — PitWs. 
Su-bha^a — D  utangada. 
/S'lichi,  313. 
»S'uchi  =  Agni. 
Su-dakshina — Dilipa. 
»Sii-dar5ana,  162,  313. 
Sudasa,  313. 
Suddhodana — Kapila. 
Su-deshHa — Dirgha-tamas. 
8udhu-liara  =  Garu<ia. 
Su-dhanwan — ^ibluis,  313. 
Su-dhanwan  =  Viswa-karma. 
Sadlia-pfi^i  =  Dhanwaiitari. 
Sudhavats — Pitm. 
»S'udras — Abblra. 
8adyumiia,  69. 
Sulima — Dirgha-tamas. 
8ubotra  (two),  69. 
»Su-hotra — Saha-deva. 
Sii-jata — Haihaya. 


Su-kalas — Pitns. 
Su-kanya — Chyavana. 
Su-kalius — Pit^^'s. 
Sukha — Varu??a  338. 
Suketu,  69,  313. 
*S'ukra=:Agni. 
/S'ukra — Kacha. 
Sukta — Veda  346. 
>S'ukti-mati,  71. 
iS'uktimat — Kula-parvatas. 
Sukiimfira,  69. 
Su-laksha«a — Yogini. 
Siimad-atmaja  =  Apsaras. 
/S^unaka — Gritsa-mada. 
Su-mali — Kaikasi. 
Sii-mana — Dama. 
Sumanas,  313. 
Su-mantu — Dharma-sastra. 
Su-mantu — Kabaudha. 
Su-mati — Indra-dyumna. 
Su-mati — Sagara. 
/S^umbha — Devi,  87. 
Su-mitra — Dasa-ratha. 
/S'mia-hotra — Gn'tsa-mada. 
Su-naman,  162. 
Su-nanda — Yogini. 
Sunaya,  313. 

Sundara-ka;2^a — Ilamaj^a7ia. 
Suudara  Misra — Abhirama-ma?ii. 
Sunitha,  69. 
Su-nitha  =  >S'i5ii-pala. 
Suniti — Dhriiva. 
Siinga — Pushpa-mitra. 
Sunri'tii — Dhruva. 
Su-par7ia=  Garii(7a. 
Supar^wa,  313. 
Suparswa — Vaibhra  j  a. 
Su-pratika — Dig-gaja,     Loka- 
palas. 
Sura,  70. 
Sura — KuntT. 
Sura — Dwipa. 
Sura — Varu  /ijlni. 
Surabhi — Kama-dhcnu. 
/S'luTibbiras — Abhira. 
Suradbipa  =  Indra, 
Surfinganfi  =  Apsaras. 
<Suras — Abhira. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


403 


Su-rasa — Naga,  Yfitus. 
>S'urasenas — 162,  Kunti. 
Suratha,  69. 
Surendra-jit  —  Garuc?a. 
Suruchi — Dhruva. 
Sfirytl — Pushan, 
Suiya-ja  =  Yamuna. 
Susandhi,  313. 
Susarmau — Arjuna  23. 
Sushena  —  Jamad-agui,    Re/m- 

ka. 
SxiBhnii — Kutsa. 
Su-sila — Yam  a. 
Sushoma — Sapta-sindhava. 
Susriita,  313. 
<S^usuma — *S'iikra, 
Su-swadlias — Pitns. 
Suta=Karna. 
Sutala — Patala. 
Su-tapas — Devaki, 
/S'utudri — Sai)ta-sindhava. 
Suvar;iaroma,  313. 
Suvarwa-kaya  =  Garuc/a. 
Suvibhu,  69. 
Su-ya^as — Maun'^a. 
Sii-yodliana — Dur-yodhana. 
Swadha — Angiras,  Pitr^s. 
Swaha — Agni. 
Swahi,  69. 

Swanaya — Kaksliivat. 
^Swa-phalka  —  Akrura,    Gan- 

dinl. 
Swar-bhanu — Satya-bhama. 
Swarga — Indra. 
Swarga-pati  =  Indra. 
S^yargaroha?^a-parva,  192. 
Swaru  =  Vajra. 
Swar-vaidyau  =  A^wins. 
iS'wa^wa^Bhairava. 
Swati — Siirya. 
Swayamblioja,  70. 
S^yeia  =  /S'ukra. 
S  weta-rohita  =  Garuffa. 
^S'weta-vilhana  =  Arjuna. 
iSweta-vaji  =  Soma. 
Sweti — Sapta-sindliava. 
SyaTna  =  'De\i. 
*Sy  amanga = Budha. 


Syamantaka — Vishwu  361. 
Syeni — Sampati. 

Taittiriya — Pratisakhya. 
Takshaka — Astika. 
Takshaka  =  Viswa-karma. 
Taksha-5ila — Janamejaya. 
Tala — Patala. 
Tala — Patala. 
Tala-dhwaja  =  Bala-rama. 
Talajanghas — Bahu. 
Talatala — Patala. 
Tamas,  69,  77,  246. 
Tamas-Pura»a — Tri-mtirti. 
Tamisra — Naraka. 
Tamo-gu7ia — Tri-murti. 
Tamra-cliuc^a — Bliairava. 
Tamra-kar/ii — Loka-palas 
Tamra-varwa — Bharata-varslia, 

Dwipa, 
Tawc^ava — >S'iva,  Nandi, 
Tawc/ava-talika  =  Nandi. 
Tansu,  69. 
Tapana — Naraka. 
Tapati — Chhaya,  Kuru. 
Tara — Bali. 
Tara — Bali,    Brihaspati,    Budlia, 

Devi. 
Taraka — Rama. 
Taraka-jit =Karttikeya. 
Taraka-maya — Brthaspati. 
Taranta — /Syavaswa. 
Taraswin  =  Garuc/a. 
Tarksliya  =  GarucZa. 
Tarpawechchhu  =  Bhislima. 
Tavisha  =  Swarga. 
Tavishi  =  Jayanti. 
Tigma,  70. 
Titha  =  Kama. 
Tomara-dhara  =  Agni. 
Tranga  =  Saubha, 
Trasadasyu — Purukutsa,  Nar- 

mada,  313. 
Trayaru»a,  313. 
Tri-dhanwan,  313. 
Tri-divam  =  Swarga. 
Trigartta,  187. 
Tri^a-bindu — Idaxida. 


404 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


Tri-patha-ga — Ganga. 
Tii-pish^apam  =  S  warga. 
Tri-^anku — Haris-chaiidra,  Satya- 

vrata. 
Tr^sha — Aniruddha. 
Trisbfama — Sapta-sindliava. 
Tri-siklia  =  Eava/ia. 
Tri-5iras  —  Rfiva^a. 
Tri-srotali  =  Ganga. 
Tn-5ula,  299. 
Tri-yama= Yamuna. 
Tryambaki  =  Devi. 
Tulildhara — Jajali. 
Tu/ic/ikeras — Haihaya. 
Tunga^Budha. 
Tungisa,  166. 
Twaslitri — Sara?iyu. 

Uchathya — Dirglia-tamas. 
Udavasu,  313. 
U  day  ana,  70. 
Uddalaka — Asliiavakra. 
Uddama  —  Yaruna. 
Udgatn — Yeda  350. 
Udgitha  =  Om. 
Udyoga-parva,  191. 
Uf'ra  =  *S'iva. 
Ugra-dlianwan  =  Indra. 
Uktha,  313. 
Ulmuka — Bala-rama. 
Uluka= India. 
Uma — Apar^ia,  Daksha,  78. 
Un-niatta — Bliairava. 
Unnati — Garuc^a. 
Upagu,  313. 
U  pahutas — Pitn's. 
Uparichara — Satyavati, 
Upasunda — Muka. 
Upendra,  166. 
tJrdhwa-loka  —  S  warga. 
tjrja — Yasishdia,  342. 
Urjavaha,  313. 
Urniila — Lakshmawa. 
Uru — Angiras. 
Uiva — Aurva. 
Uiva^i — Nara  Naraya^ia. 
Urvl — P?7'tliivl. 
U.sanas — B/Zluispati,  69. 


Usha-pati — Animddlia. 

Ushmapas — Pitris. 

Ushna,  70. 

Usinara — Galava,  »S'ivi. 

Utath^^a — Angiras,   Bliaradwaja, 

Dirgha-tamas. 
Utpadaka  =  /S'arabha. 
Uttama — Dhruva. 
Uttanka — Dhundhu. 
Uttara — Abliimanyu. 
Uttara-kawf/a — Ramayana. 
Uttara  Kuru — Dwipa,  Jambu-d. 

Yacbaspati  Misra — Bbamati,  Yi- 

vada    Mitrodaya,    Yyavabara- 

Cbintjlma?d,  • 
Yach-viraj — Yach. 
Yadaveyau  =  A^wins. 
Yafrlswari  —  Saraswati. 
Yaibbra  =  Yaikun^ba. 
Yaibbraja-loka — Barbisbads. 
Yaidehi— Yaideba. 
Yaidbatra  =  Sanat-kumara. 
Yaidbvata — Yama. 
Yaidya-natba  Yacbaspati — Cbit- 

ra-yajna. 
Yaijayanta — Indra,  127. 
Yaikundia-natba  =  Yishviu. 
Yaikarttana  =  Kania. 
Yainabotra,  70. 
Yainateya  =  Garuc/a. 
YairagI — Loka. 

Yairagya-sataka — Bbart;7'-liari. 
Yairajas — PitWs. 
Yairocbi  =  Ba»a. 
Yaisampaj-ana — Yajnawalkya. 
Yai  sb»  avi — ]\Iatm. 
Yai.sravana = Kuvera. 
Yaiswanara — Agni,  Kalakji. 
Yaivaswata  =  Yama. 
Yaja — jRibbus. 
Yajasaneyi-pratisakbya — Prati- 

^fikbya. 
Yajasani — Yeda  349. 
Yaja-.sravasa — Nacbikctas. 
Ycljin — Yeda  349. 
\'ajra — Aniruddba. 
Vajra-datta — Arjuna  ^t,. 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


405 


Piadyiimna- 
vijaya,  313. 


Vaj  ra- j  it  =  Ganir/a, 
Va  j  ra-kama — Maya. 

Vajra-nabha,  \ 

Vajra-piiwi  =  Indra. 

Vakya-padiya — Bhartri-hari. 

Vala — Indra,  Trita. 

Vala-bhid  =  Indra. 

Valmiki — Hanuman-nataka. 

Vama  —  Kama. 

Vamana — Dig-gaja,  Loka-pala. 

Vameswara — Linga. 

Vana-parva,  191. 

Varada  Raja — Laghu  Kaumudi. 

Varawavata,  185. 

Vara-prada  —  Agastya,    Lopa- 

mudra. 
Vararuchi — Katyayana. 
Varga — Veda,  346. 
Vari-loma  =  Varii?ia. 
Var?2a-kavi — Kiivera. 
Varttika — Katyayana. 
Varuwa — Aditya. 
Varu?ia — Bharata-varsha. 
VaiiiJia — Utathya. 
Varuwa-dwipa — Dwipa. 
Vasava-datta — Ratnavali. 
Vasava  =  Indra. 
Vashkalas — Vasish^ha. 
Vasishdias — Vasishifha. 
Vasu — Jamad-agni,  Re/iuka,  Ut- 

tana-pada,  Vkwa-devas. 
Vasudana,  70. 
Vasudha-nagara — Varuwa. 
Vasu-dhara  =  Alaka. 
Vasuki — Kadru,  ^Sesha. 
Vasu-sena  —  Kama. 
Vasu-sthali  —  Alaka. 
Vatsa,  69. 

Vaswokasara — Sapta-sindliava. 
Yatsa — Ratnavali. 
Yeda,  36. 

Veda-mitra = /S'akalya. 
Vedas — Jata-vedas. 
Vedhas  =  Bralima  59,  Satya-vrata. 
Vena — Vrii\\\. 
Vetala-blia^^a — Nava-ratna. 
Vibliu,  69. 


Vibliu — 7?ibhus. 
Vibudlia,  313. 
Vichara-bliu — Yama. 
Vidagdha    /Sakalya — Yfijnawal- 

kya. 
Yidarbha — 69,  Jyamaglia. 
Yidhi  =  Brahma,  59. 
Yidhi-patJlla — Patala. 
Yiduratlia,  69,  70. 
Yidya-nagara — Yidyara?iya. 
Yighna-hari,    )       ., 
Yighne^a,        |  =C.a;ie.a. 

Yijaya  =  Arjuna  187. 
Yijaya^Devi,  Saha-deva,  Yama. 
Yijaya  (kings),  313. 
Yijaya  (patala) — Patala. 
Yijnana  Bhikshu — Sankhya-sara. 
Yikarttana — Karwa. 
Yikarttana  =  Surya. 
Yikrita,  77. 
Yik?•^ti,  69. 
Yikukslii,  313, 
Yiloma=  Yaruwa  338. 
Yimana — Indra  127. 
Yina — Narada. 
Yinasana — Madhya-de^a. 
V^inata  —  Garuc^a,  Garuc^a  Pu- 

ra?2a. 
Yinayaka, 
Yinayaka, 

Yindhya — Kula-parvatas. 
Yindhya-ku^a — Agastya. 
Yindhy a-vasini  :=  Devi,    Pi^ha- 

stliana, 
Yipasa — Sapta-sindhava. 
Yiprachitti — Ketu,  Ralm. 
Yira-bhadra,  78. 
Yiraj — PWthi,  Yacli. 
Yira-nagara — Nidagha. 
Yira^a-parva,  191. 
Yirupaksha — Loka-palas. 
Yi^akha-datta  —  Mudra-Rak- 

shasa. 
Yi^ala — Yaisala. 
Yisha,  36. 

Yisha-liara  =  INIanasa. 
Yisli7iu — Bhrigii,  Daksha,  79. 
Yisli?m-duta  =  Prakasas, 


Garuf/a. 


4o6 


SANSKRIT  INDEX. 


Vishnu-gupta  =  Cha?2akya. 
Vish/m-gupta — Kaundinya. 
A"ish?2,u-ratha  —  Garuf/a. 
Vish;m-5aiman — Pauclia-tantra. 
Visrutavat,  313. 
Viswagaswa,  313. 
Vi^wa-jit— Varii;«a  2Z^' 
Viswaka — Kr^'sh/ia. 
Viswa-karman — 34,  Surya. 
Viswamitra — Haris-cliandra. 
Vi^wa-natha — Kaghava-vilasa, 

Saliitya-darpana. 
Viswa-natlia  (dramatist) — Mre- 

gauka-lekha. 
Viswa-mpa. 
Viswasaha,  313. 
Viswavasii — Jamad-agni. 
Viifwe-devas — Dakslia. 
Visweswara    Bha^fa  —  Subod- 

hini, 
Vitahavj^a,  313. 
Vitala — Patala. 
Vitasta — Sapta-sindhava. 
Vitatha — 69,  Garga,  Kapila, 
Viti-hotra — Haihaya. 
VituwcZa — Tuwc/a. 
Vivaswat  =  Surya. 
Vivaswati — Surya. 
Viyad-ganga — Ganga. 
Vr^ddha — Dharma-sastra. 
Vre'ddha-Manu — Mann. 
Vriddlia-5arma — Danta-vaktra. 
Vr/had-garbha — >S'ivi. 
Vn'bad-ratha — Jara-sandba. 
Vreban-manas — Jayad-ratba. 
Vnbati — Angada. 


Vr/ban-Manu — Mann. 
Vr/jinivat,  69. 
Wika,  313. 
Yrisban-aswa — Mena. 
Vrisba-parvan — Drubyn. 
Vrtsba-parvan — Sarmisbdia. 
VWsb;timat,  70. 
Vri&hni — Andbaka,  69. 
VWtra — Dadbyancb,  Indra. 
Vyadba — Dbarma-vyadba. 
Vyamas — Pitris. 
Vyoman,  69. 

Yadab-pati  =  Varu?2a. 

Yadavas,  161. 

Yajna — Aktiti. 

Yajna-senI  =  Dranpadi. 

Yajnawalkya — Yeda  34S. 

Yajnesa,  )      ,^.  , 

v  •  >  =  Visb;m. 

Yajneswara,    ) 

Yaksba-raja = Kuvera. 

Yama — Nacbiketas. 

Yama-duta — Yama. 

Yamas — Akuti. 

Yamuna — Saj)ta-sindbava. 

Yoga-cbara  =  Hanumat. 
Yoga-siddba — Viswa-kamia. 
Yudba  j  it — Andbaka. 
Yudba-kanda — Ramayawa. 
Yudba-ranga — Karttikeya. 
Yudbi-sbdiira — Jayad-ratba. 
Yuvana^wa — Harita,  Mandbatr/, 

313- 
Yuva-raja,  1S5. 


GENERAL   INDEX. 


Aborigines — Dasyus. 

Adam's    Bridge  —  Rama-setu, 

Setu-bandlia. 
Adisadra — Ahi-chhatra. 
Adoption — Dattaka. 
Aerial  car — Pushpaka,   Karta- 

vnya. 
Aerial  city — Saublia,Vismapana. 
Ages  of  the  world — Yuga. 
Ahirs — Abliiras. 
Ahura — Asura. 
Alexander  the  Great — Chandra- 

gupta. 
Algebra — Arya-bha^a — Vija-ga- 

iiita,  Bhaskaracharya. 
Akesines — Asikni,    Sapta-sind- 

hava. 
Andarse — Andhra. 
Andubarius — Arya-bha^a. 
Anhalwara — Pattana. 
Anna  Perenna — Anna  Purwa. 
Antiochus — Yavanas. 
Anwar-i  Suhaili — Pancha-tantra. 
Aphrodite — Apsaras,     Lakshnil^ 

/S'ukra. 
Archery — Dhanur-veda. 
Architect — Viswa-karma. 
Architecture— Sthapatya-veda. 
Arithmetic — Bhaskaracharya. 
Ar j  abahr — Ary  a-bha^a. 
Arrah — Eka-chakra. 
Ars  Erotica — Sankhayana. 
Assam — Kulika  Pura^ia. 
Astronomy — Arya-bha^a,  Jyoti 

sha,  Bhaskaracharya. 


Atmosphere — Antarlksha. 
Atomic  School — Darsana. 
Aurora — Aruwa,  Ushas. 

Bacchus — Soma  302. 

Bactrian  Greeks — Yavanas. 

Bactrians — Balhikas. 

Bairat — Matsya,  Virata. 

Baital  PachisI — Vetala   Pancha- 
vinsati. 

Balkh — Balhi,  Balhika. 

Banas  river,  62. 

Banda — Chitra-ku^a. 

Barbarians — Mlechchhas. 

Bears — Jamba  vat,    Rama,    Ba- 
vawa. 

Beder — Vidarbha. 

Behat — Vitasta. 

Benares,  153,  162,  168. 

Bengal — Anga,  Banga. 

Betwa  river — Vetravatl. 

Bhils — Nishada. 

Bibasis — Vipasa. 

Bihar — Magadha,  Videha. 

Birar — Kosala,  Vidarbha. 

Boar — Avatara,  Brahma. 

Boglekand — Chedi. 

Bow,    wonderful — Ga7idlva,   Ra- 
ma. 

Buddhism,  26,  27. 

Byas — Sapta-sindhava,  Vipasa. 

Bj^eturnee — Vaitarani. 

Calingre — Kalinga. 
Cannibal  imps — Pisita^anas. 


4o8 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Canogyza — Kanya-kub  j  a. 

Canopus — Agastya. 

Cape  Comorin — Kanya-kiimari. 

Capricorniis — Makara, 

Carnatic — Karna^a. 

Castes — Var«a. 

Ceylon — Lanka,  Ravawa. 

Chaudail — Cliedi. 

Chariot,    aerial  —  Karta-virya, 
Pushpaka. 

Charites — Harita. 

Cliinab — Sapta-sindliava. 

Churning  of  ocean — Amrita. 

Cirrhad?e — Kiratas. 

Cities,  the  sacred — Nagara. 

Comorin,  Cape — Kumari. 

Conch — Panchajanya. 

Con  j  everam — Kanchl. 

Conscience — Sanjna. 

Continents — D^yIpa. 

Coromandel — Chola-Mawc?ala. 

Cow,     the     wonderful  —  Kama- 
dhenu. 

Creation — Apava,  Daksha,  Brah- 
ma, Brihaspati,  Manu. 

Creator — Brahma,    Hira?iya-gar- 
bha,  Prajapati,  Vi^wa-karma. 

Cupid — Kama. 

Dawn — Aruna,  Ushas. 

Dead,  the — Yama. 

Death — Nirriti. 

Deities — Devatas,  Ganas. 

Deluge — Avatara,  INIanu. 

Demons — Asuras,    Daityas,    Da- 

navas,  Darbas,  Dadhyanch. 
Dictionary — Abhidhana,  Amara- 

kosha. 
Differential  calculus — Bhaskara- 

charya. 
Dionysus — Soma  302. 
Dioskouroi  =  A^wins. 
Doal) — Antarvedi. 
Dogs  of   Indra  and  Yama — Sa- 

rama  and  Sarameyas. 
Drama,  47,  49. 
Dramatists — Bhava-bhuti. 
Drought,  demon  of — Vritra. 


Durds — Darada. 
Dryads — Vana-charis. 
D  warf — Avatara. 

Earrings — Aditi. 

E a  r t h — Avatara,  Vri th i vi. 

Earth,  milking  of — P?Y'thi. 

Eclectic  School — Darsana  82. 

Eclipses — Graha,  Bahu. 

Egg  of  the  world — Brahma. 

Elephant,  aerial — Airavata — Dig- 

gaja. 
Eolus — Vajni. 
Eos — Ushas. 
Eras — /S'aka,  Samvat. 
Erinnys — Sarameyas. 
Erranaboas    )    Chandra-gupta, 

river  )      Paiali-putra. 

Esoteric  writings — Upanishads, 

Veda  345. 
Ethics — Niti-5astras. 
Etymology — Nirukta. 
Exoteric  writings — Veda  345. 

Faith — Sraddha. 

Fauns — Yana-charas. 

Female   principle,    worship   of — 

Tantra. 
Fiends — Pisachas. 
Fiery  weapon — Agneyastra. 
Fire — Agni. 

Fish — Avatara,  Brahma. 
Fortune,  goddess  of — Lakshmi. 

Gambling — Maha-bharata,  Nala. 

Gandarii — Gandhilra. 

Gandaritis — Gandhara. 

Ganges — Ganga. 

Ganymede — Medhfitithi. 

Gems — Nava-ratna. 

Ghosts — Bhiltas — Yetala, 

Giants — Daityas,  Danavas,  Dad- 
hyanch. 

Glossary — Nighanfu,  Nirukta. 

Goblins — Bhutas,  Yetala. 

Gogra — Nidiigha. 

Grammar  —  Mahii-bhashya,    Pa- 
cini, Yyakara;?a. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


409 


Great  Bear — i?^■shi. 

Greeks — Kala-yavana,  Yavaiias. 

Guiiduck — Gandaki. 

Hapta-heando — Sapta-sindhava. 
Hardwar  —  Gaiiga- dwara,    Hari- 

dwara. 
Heaven — Dyaus,    Swarga,   Vai- 

kun^lia. 
Hell — Naraka. 
Hephaistos — Twash^x 
Hermes — Sarameyas. 
H  e  sii  dr  us — >S'ata-  dr  u. 
Himalaya — Himavat. 
Hind — Sindhu. 
Hindoi — Sindhu. 
Horse     sacrifice  —  Aswa-medlia, 

Arjuna. 
Horses — Galava. 
Human  sacrifice — Suna/i-sephas, 
Huns — Hu??as. 
Hydaspes — Sapta-sindhava,  Vi- 

Hydraotes — Iravati,  Sapta-sind- 
hava, 

Hyphasis — Sapta-sindhava,  Vi- 
pasa. 

Imps — DakinT. 

I  ncarnations — Avatara, 

Index    of    the    Veda — Anukra- 

mawi, 
India — Bharata-varsha. 
India — Sindhu. 
Indoi — Sindhu. 
Indo-Scythians — /S'akas,    Turush- 

kas,  Kanishka. 
Indus — Sindhu, 
Infernal  regions — Patala, 
Infinite  space — Aditi, 
Inheritance — Daya, 
Innocents,  Slaughter  of — Kansa. 
Inspiration — Smr^ti. 
Islands — D-\vipa. 
lyar-i  Danish — Pancha-tantra. 

Jewels — Nava-ratna, 
J  hare  j  as — Surya-vausa. 


Jhilam  —  Sapta  -  sindhava,  Vi- 

XclStcl, 

Jumna — Yamuna. 
Jupiter  Pluvius, 
Jupiter  Tonans, 
Justice — Dharma. 


Indra. 


Kanerki — Kanishka. 
Khasiyas — Khasas, 
Khirad-afroz — Pancha-tantra, 
Kirantis — Kiratas, 
Kosambi-nagar — Kausambi. 
Kundapur — Vidarhha, 


Lata. 


Lar, 

Larike, 

Law  —  Dharma-sastra,    Manu- 

sanliita. 
Light — Angirasas. 
Local  deities — Sthali-devatas. 
Logic — Darsana. 
Love,  god  of — Kama, 
Luminous    deities  —  Angirasas — 

As  wins. 
Lunar  mansions — Nakshatra,  77, 
Lunar  race — Chandra-vausa. 
Lute — Narada, 

Macedonian  Greeks — Yavanas, 

INIalabar — j\Ialay — Parasu-rama. 

JNIanes — Pitr^s. 

Mare — Bat/a  va. 

INIars — Karttikeya — INIangala. 

INIaths — Sankaracharya. 

ISIatter — PrakWti. 

INIechanics — Artha-sastra,  /Silpa- 

sjlstra. 
Medicine  — Ayur-veda,  Charaka, 

Dhanwantari,  Susruta. 
Megasthenes — Chandra-gupta, 
Mendicant — Bhikshu, 
Mercury — Budha, 
Metre— Chh  andas. 
INIilking  of  the  earth — Pr^thi. 
]\Iilitary  art — Dhanur-veda, 
Mind-born  sons — Atri,  Kumaras, 

jNlrmasa-putras,  i^ishi, 
Minos — Yama. 


4IO 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Mithra — INIitra. 

Monkeys — Hanuinat,  Ravana, 

Sugriva. 
Months — Aditya. 
Moon — Alialya,  Soma. 
]\Ioon,  descendants  of — Cliandra- 

vansa. 
Moon-stone — Cliandra-kauta. 
Morals — Niti-sastras. 
Mother  of  the  gods — Aditi. 
jMountains — Kula-parvatas. 
ISIundane  Q,%g — Brahma. 
Music— Raga. 
Musicians — Gandharvas. 
Mystic  words — Vyahriti. 

Niisik — Panchavati. 
Necklace — >S'iva,  Vaijayantl. 
Nerbudda — Narmada. 
Nihilists,  82. 
Node,  the  ascending — Rahu. 

the  descending — Ketu. 

Nymphs  of  heaven — Apsarases. 

Ocean,  churning — Amnta. 

drunk  up — Agastya, 

Oerki — Huslika,  Kanishka. 
Ophir — Abhira. 
Orissa — Orfra,  Utkala. 
Orpheus — Narada. 
Ouranos — Varu?ia. 
Ozene — Ujjayini. 

Palibothra — Chandra-gupta,  Pa- 

^ali-putra. 
Pandion — Pa?ic/ya. 
Paradise — Swarga,  Vaikun^ia. 
Parrot,  tales  of — /S'uka-saptati. 
Partridge — Tittiri. 
Pasargada — Kalanas. 
Patna — Arya-bha/a,  Pa^ali-putra. 
Pcrsi ai i s — Pah  1  a vas,  Parasikas, 
Peukelastis — Puslikaravati. 
I'hallus — Linga. 
Philosopher's  stone — Chinta-ma- 

n\. 
Ph  ilosophy — Dar.sana. 
Phonetics — /S'iksha. 


Pigmies — Valakhilj-as. 

Pisuni  river — Chitra-kufa,  Man- 

dakinl. 
Planetary  sphere — /S'isumara. 
Pluto — Yama. 
Poems — iNIaha-kavyas. 
Pokhar,  57, 
Pole  star — Dhruva. 
Polity — Kamandaki. 
Pousekielofati — Pushkaravatl. 
Prasii — Chandra-gupta. 
Prem-Sagar,  161. 
Prosody — Chhandas. 
Puri — Jagan-natha. 

Pain — Indra,  Parjanya. 
Rajputs — Surya-vansa. 
Ramisseram — Linga,  Rameswara. 
Ramnagar — Panchala. 
Ravi — IravatI,  Sapta-sindhava. 
Recorder  of    the    dead — Chitra- 

guj)ta. 
Revelation — /Sruti. 
Rohilkhand — Panchala. 


igala,  \  ^'^k^l^- 


Saba'-sin — Sapta-sindhava. 

Sacse — /S'akas. 

Sagala, 

Sam 

Sakai — /Sakas. 

Sandracottus,      )  =Chandra- 

Sandrocyptus,     \       gupta. 

Saturn — >S'ani. 

Schools  of  the  Vedas  — /S'aklia. 

Sciences,  118. 

Scythians — Haihayas. 

Sea  serpent — Timin. 

Seleucus     Nicator  —  Chandra- 
gupta. 

Serpents — Nagas. 

Serpent,  aerial — Alii. 

Seven  rivers — Sapta-sindhava. 

Singhjlsan-battisi — Sinhasana- 
dwatrinsat. 

Sky — Dyaus,  Varuna. 

Sleep — Nidra. 

Solar  race — Sfnya-vansa, 

Sone — Pa^ali-i)utra. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


411 


Sophagasenas — Yavanas. 

Soul — Brahma. 

Speech — SaraswatI,  Vach. 

Storm-gods — Maruts. 

Submarine  fire — Aurva,  Bacfava. 

Sun — Surya. 

Sun,  worship  of  —  Brahma  Pu- 

ra^za. 
Sungroor — Srmga-vera. 
Supreme  Soul — Brahma. 
Suraseui — >S'urasenas. 
Sutlej — »S'atadru. 

Tales — Hitopadesa,  Pancha-tan- 
tra,  /Suka-saptati,  Sinhasana- 
dwatrinsat, 

Talmud — Brahma?2a. 

Tamil — Agastya,  Dravi(/a. 

Tamlook — Tamra-lipta. 

Taprobane — Tamra-par  «  a. 

Tatars — Kanishka,  /Sakas. 

Taxila — Taksha-^ila. 

Telingana — Andhra. 

Text — Pada,  Pa^ha. 

Three  steps — Avatara. 

Thunderbolt — Va  j  ra. 

Time — Kala. 

Tinnin — Timin. 

Tirhut— Videha,  MithHa. 

Titans — Daityas,  Danavas,  Da- 
dhyanch. 

Tom  Thumb — Valakhilyas. 

Tonse  river — Tamasa. 

Tortoise — Avatara,  Brahma. 

Tota-kahanI — *S'uka-saptati. 

Traigart — Trigartta, 


Trees,  celestial — Pancha-vriksha, 

Parijata. 
Triad — Tri-murti. 
Tripati — Venka^a. 
Tuluva — Tulunga. 
Tutl-namah — ^S'uka-saptati. 
Turks  —  Kanishka,    >S'akas,    Tu- 

rushka. 
Twilight — Sandhya. 

Udaypur — Surya-vansa. 
Uranos — Varuwa. 

Vehicles  of  the  gods — Vahana. 
Venus — Rati,  /S'ukra. 
Vijaya-nagara — Madhava. 
Vira  Bukka  Baya — Madhava. 
Vocabulary — Abhidhana,    Ama- 

ra-kosha,  Tri-ka?i(/a  >S'esha. 
Vulcan — Twash^?'/. 

War,  god  of — Karttikeya. 

War,  the  great — Maha-bharata. 

Water  of  life — Am^-e'ta. 

Water — Varu?ia. 

Wealth,  god  of — Kuvera. 

White  horse — Avatara,  38. 

Wind — Vayu. 

Wine — SunT,  Varuwani. 

World— Loka. 

Worlds,  the  three — Tri-bhuvana, 

Xandrames — Chandra-gupta. 


avanas. 


Yona, 
Yona-raja 

Zaradrus — ^ata-dru. 


THE  END. 


PRINTED  BY  BALLANTYNE,  H.ANSON  AND  CO. 
EDINBURGH  AND  LONDON. 


TRUBNER'8   ORIENTAL   SERIES. 


Messrs.  TRUBNEH  &  CO.  heg  to  call  attention  to  tlieir 
ORIENTAL  SERIEIS,  in  which  will  be  collected,  as  far  as 
possible,  all  extant  information  and  research  upon  the  History^ 
Religions^  Languages,  Literature,  d:c.,  of  Ancient  India,  China,  and 
the  East  in  general. 

The  Oriental  Series  will  be  on  a  comprehensive  design,  and 
no  labour  or  expense  will  be  spared  to  render  the  undertaking 
worthy  of  its  subject.  Messrs.  Trubner  &  Co.  have  already- 
secured  the  services  of  eminent  Eastern  students  and  writers  ; 
and  while  the  labour  proposed  must  necessarily  prove  vast,  they 
intend  to  accomplish  it  by  working  with  many  able  hands  over 
the  whole  field,  under  careful  and  well-organised  Editorship. 


THE   FOLLOWING    WORKS  ARE  NOW  READY:— 

Second  Edition,  post  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  xvi. — 427,  price  i6s. 

ESSAYS  ON  THE  SACRED  LANGUAGE,  WRITINGS, 
AND  RELIGION  OF  THE  PARSIS. 

By  martin  HAUG,  Ph.D., 

Late  of  the  Universities  of  Tubingen,  Gottingen,  and  Bonn  ;  Superintendent 
of  Sanskrit  Studies,  and  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  Poona  College ; 
Honorary  Member  of  the  Bombay  Branch  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society,  &c. 

Edited  by  Dr.  E.  W.  WEST. 

I.  History  of  the  Researches  into  the  Sacred  "Writings  and  Religion  of  the 
Parsis,  from  the  Earhest  Times  down  to  the  Present. 
II.  Languages  of  the  Parsi  Scriptures. 

III.  The  Zend-Avesta,  or  the  Scripture  of  the  Parsis. 

IV.  The  Zoroastrian  Religion,  as  to  its  Origin  and  Development. 


TRUBNER'S  ORIENTAL  SERIES. 


The  Author  of  these  Essays  intended,  after  his  return  from  India,  to 
expand  them  into  a  comprehensive  work  on  the  Zoroastrian  religion ;  but 
this  design,  postponed  from  time  to  time,  was  finally  frustrated  by  his 
untimely  death.  Thnt  he  was  not  spared  to  publish  all  his  varied  know- 
ledge on  this  subject  must  remain  for  ever  a  matter  of  regret  to  the  student 
of  Iranian  antiquities.  In  other  hands,  the  changes  that  could  be  introduced 
into  this  Second  Edition  were  obviously  limited  to  such  additions  and 
alterations  as  the  lapse  of  time  and  the  progress  of  Zoroastrian  stiidies  have 
rendered  necessar^^ 

In  the  First  Essay,  the  history  of  the  European  researches  has  been 
extended  to  the  jDresent  time  ;  but  for  the  sake  of  brevity  several  writings 
have  been  i^assed  over  unnoticed,  among  the  more  valuable  of  which  those 
of  Professor  Hiibschmann  may  be  specially  mentioned.  Some  account  has 
also  been  given  of  the  progress  of  Zoroastrian  studies  among  the  Parsis 
themselves. 


In  the  Second  Essay,  additional  information  has  been  given  about  the 
Pahlavi  language  and  literature  ;  but  the  technical  portion  of  the  Avesta 
Grammar  has  been  reserved  for  separate  publication,  being  better  adapted 
for  students  than  for  the  general  reader. 

Some  additions  have  been  made  to  the  Tliird  Essay,  with  the  view  of 
bringing  together,  from  other  sources,  all  the  author's  translations  from  the 
Avesta,  exceiit  those  portions  of  the  Gathas  wliich  he  did  not  include  in  the 
First  Edition,  and  which  it  would  be  hazardous  for  an  Editor  to  revise. 
Further  details  have  also  been  given  regarding  the  contents  of  the  Nasks. 


Several  additional  translations  having  been  found  among  the  author's 
pa])ers,  too  late  for  insertion  in  the  Third  Essay,  liave  been  added  in  an 
Api)endix,  after  careful  revision,  together  with  his  notes  descriptive  of  the 
mode  of  performing  a  few  of  the  Zoroastrian  ceremonies. 

The  Author's  jmncipal  object  in  pi;blishing  these  Essays  originally,  was 
to  present  in  a  readable  form  all  the  materials  for  judging  impartially  of  the 
scriptures  and  religion  of  the  Parsis,  The  same  object  has  been  kept  in 
view  while  preparing  this  Second  Edition,  giving  a  large  quantity  of  such 
materials,  collected  from  a  variety  of  sources,  which  may  now  be  left  to  the 
reader's  impartial  judgment. 

The  value  of  this  Second  Edition  is  greatly  enhanced  by  the  addition  of 
many  i^osthumous  papers,  discovered  by  the  Editor,  Dr.  E,  AVest,  at  Munich. 
Tliey  consist  of  further  translations  from  the  Zend  and  Pahlavi  of  tlie  Zend- 
Avesta,  and  also  of  numerous  detailed  notes  de.scrii>tive  of  some  of  the  Parsi 
ceremonies. 


TRUBNER'S  ORIENTAL  SERIES. 


Post  8vo,  cloth,  i)p.  viii.— 176,  price  7s.  6d. 

TEXTS  FROM  THE  BUDDHIST  CANON 

COMMONLY  KNOWN  AS  "  DHAMMAPADA." 

Translated  from  the  Chinese  by  S.  BEAL,  B.A.,  Professor  of  Cliinese, 

University  College,  London. 

Among  the  gx*eat  body  of  books  comiirising  tlie  Cliinese  Buddhist  C;inon, 
presented  by  the  Japanese  Government  to  the  Library  of  the  India  Office, 
Mr.  Beal  discovered  a  woi'k  bearing  the  title  of  "Law  Verses,  or  Scriptural 
Texts,"  wliich  on  examination  was  seen  to  resemble  the  Pali  version  of 
Dhammapada  in  many  particulars.  It  was  further  discovered  tliat  the 
original  recension  of  the  Pali  Text  found  its  way  into  Cliina  in  the  'J'hird 
Century  (a.d.),  where  the  work  of  translation  was  finished,  and  afterwards 
thirteen  additional  sections  added.  Tlie  Dhammapada,  as  hitherto  known 
by  the  Pali  Text  Edition,  as  edited  by  Fausbijll,  by  Max  Midler's  English, 
and  Albrecht  AVeber's  German  translations,  consists  only  of  twenty-six 
chapters  or  sections,  whilst  the  Chinese  version,  or  rather  recension,  as  now 
translated  by  Mr.  Beal,  consists  of  thirty-nine  sections.  The  students  of 
Pali  who  possess  Fausboll's  Text,  or  either  of  the  above-named  translations, 
will  therefore  needs  want  Mr.  Beal's  English  rendering  of  the  Chinese 
version  ;  the  thirteen  above-named  additional  sections  not  being  accessible  to 
them  in  any  otlier  form ;  for,  even  if  tliey  understand  Chinese,  the  Chinese 
original  would  be  unobtainable  by  them. 


Post  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  xxiii. — 360,  price  i8s. 

THE  HISTORY  OF  INDIAN  LITERATURE. 

Br  ALBRECHT  WEBER. 

Translated  from  the  German  by  John  jNLvnn,  M.A.,  and  Theodok 
Zachariae,  Ph.D.,  with  the  sanction  of  the  Author. 

Dr.  BuHLER,  Inspector  of  Schools  in  India,  writes: — "I  am  extremely 
glad  to  learn  that  yon  are  about  to  publish  an  English  translation  of  Pro- 
fessor A.  Weber's  'History  of  Indian  Literature.'  When  I  was  Professor  of 
Oriental  Languages  in  Elphinstone  College,  I  frequently  felt  the  want  of 
such  a  work  to  which  I  could  refer  the  students.  I  trust  that  the  work 
which  you  are  now  publishing  will  become  a  class-book  in  all  the  Indian 
colleges,  as  it  is  tlie  first  and  only  scientific  one  which  deals  with  the  whole 
field  of  Vedic,  Sanskrit,  and  Prakrit  literature." 


TRUBNER'S  ORIENTAL  SERIES. 


Professor  Cowell,  of  Cambridge,  wiites  : — "The  English  translation  of 
Professor  A.  Weber's  '  History  of  Indian  Literature  '  •will  be  of  the  greatest 
lise  to  those  who  wish  to  take  a  comprehensive  survey  of  all  that  the  Hindoo 
mind  has  achieved.  It  will  be  especially  useful  to  the  students  in  our 
Indian  colleges  and  uuiversities.  I  used  to  long  for  such  a  book  when  I  was 
teaching  in  Calcutta.  Hindu  students  are  intensely  interested  in  the  history 
of  Sanskrit  literature,  and  this  volume  will  supply  them  with  all  they  want 
on  the  subject.  I  hope  it  will  be  made  a  text-book  wherever  Sanskrit  and 
English  are  taught." 

Professor  Whitney,  Yale  College,  Newhaven,  Conn.,  U.S.A.,  writes  :— 
*'  I  am  the  more  interested  in  your  enterprise  of  the  publication  of  Weber's 
Sanskrit  Literature  in  an  English  version,  as  I  was  one  of  the  class  to  whom 
the  work  was  originally  given  in  the  form  of  academic  lectures.  At  their 
first  appearance  they  were  by  far  the  most  learned  and  able  treatment  of 
their  subject ;  and  with  their  recent  additions  they  still  maintain  decidedly 
the  same  rank.  Wherever  the  language,  and  institutions,  and  history  of 
India  are  studied,  they  must  be  used  and  referred  to  as  authority. " 


Post  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  xii. — 198,  accompanied  by  Two  Language 

Maps,  price  12s. 

THE  MODERN  LANGUAGES  OF  THE  EAST  INDIES. 

By  ROBERT  CUST. 

The  Author  has  attempted  t®  fill  iip  a  vacuum,  the  inconvenience  of 
which  pressed  itself  on  his  notice.  Much  had  been  written  about  the 
lauguages  of  the  East  Indies,  but  the  extent  of  our  present  knowledge  had 
not  even  been  brought  to  a  focus.  Information  on  particular  subjects  was 
only  to  be  obtained  or  looked  for  by  consulting  a  specialist,  and  then  hunting 
down  the  numbers  of  a  serial  or  the  chnpters  of  a  volume  not  always  to  be 
found.  It  occurred  to  him  that  it  might  be  of  use  to  others  to  publish  in  an 
arranged  form  the  notes  which  he  had  collected  for  his  own  edification. 
Thus  the  work  has  grown  upon  him. 


Second  Corrected  Edition,  post  Svo,  pi).  xii. — IIG,  cloth,  price  5s. 

THE   BIRTH   OF   THE   WAR   GOD,   and  Other  Poems. 

By  KALIDASA. 

Translated  from  the  Sanskrit  into  English  Verse  by 
Ralph  T.  H.  Griffith,  M.A. 

"Mr.  Griffitli's  very  spirited  rendering  of  the  Kumdrasamhhava,  first 
published  twenty-six  years  ago,  is  well  known  to  most  who  are  at  all 
interested  in  Indian  literature,  or  enjoy  the  tenderness  of  feeling  and  rich 
creative  imngination  of  its  author.  "—/?irft«7?  Antiquary. 


TRUBNER'S  ORIENTAL  SERIES. 


Tost  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  432,  price  i6s. 

A  CLASSICAL  DICTIONARY  OF  HINDU  MYTHOLOGY 
AND  RELIGION,  GEOGRAPHY,  HISTORY,  AND 

LITERATURE. 

By  JOHN  DOWSON,  M.R.A.S., 
Late  Professor  of  Hindustani,  Staff  College. 

**  By  Mr.  John  Dowson,  a  sound  and  accurate  scholar." — Athenceum. 

"  Whatever  conclusion  may  be  come  to  as  to  the  proper  scope  of  this 
work,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  Professor  Dowson  has  rendered  an 
immense  service  to  students,  and  his  dictionary  will  be  an  indispensable 
companion  to  all  students  of  Indian  matters.  Students  of  Sanskrit  at  the 
present  day  are,  by  such  books  as  this,  placed  in  a  very  advantageous 
position  compared  with  that  which  their  teachers  occupied  some  thirty  years 
ago,  when  all  such  aids  were  wanting." — Academy. 


Post  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  cxii. — 172,  price  98. 

SELECTIONS   FROM   THE   KU-RAN. 

By  EDWARD  WILLIAM  LANE, 

Hon.  Doctor  of  Literature,  Leyden  ;  Correspondent  of  the  Institute  of  France  ;  Hon. 
Member  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  &c.  ; 
Translator  of  "  The  Thousand  and  One  Nights ;  "  Author  of  an  "  Arabic-English 
Lexicon,"  <fec. 

A  New  Edition,  Revised  and  Enlarged,  with  an  Introduction  by 

Stanley  Lane  Poole. 

Extract  from  Preface. 

There  has  always  been  a  wish  to  know  something  about  the  sacred  book 
of  the  Mohammadans,  and  it  was  with  the  design  of  satisfying  this  wish, 
whilst  avoiding  the  weariness  and  the  disgust  which  a  complete  perusal  of 
the  Kuran  must  produce,  that  Mr.  Lane  arranged  the  "Selections"  which 
were  published  in  1843.  In  spite  of  many  printer's  errors,  due  to  the 
author's  absence  from  England,  the  book  was  so  far  successful  that  the 
edition  was  exhausted,  and  it  is  now  very  difficult  to  obtain  a  copy.  But 
partly  owing  to  the  obstructions  to  the  reading  offered  by  an  interwoven 
native  commentary,  and  partly  by  reason  of  the  preference  shown  for  the 
doctrinal  over  the  poetical  passages,  the  book  went  into  scholars'  hands 
rather  than  into  the  libraries  of  the  general  reading  public.  It  has  proved 
of  considerable  service  to  students  of  Arabic,  who  have  found  it  the  most 
accurate  rendering  in  existence  of  a  large  part  of  the  Kuran  ;  and  even  native 
Muslims  of  India,  ignorant  of  Arabic,  have  used  Lane's  "Selections"  as 
their  Bible. 

In  this  edition  I  have  endeavoured  rather  to  carry  out  the  original  intention 
of  the  translator.  Experience  has  shown  that  the  first  plan  was  over-learned 
to  commend  itself  to  tlie  average  reader,  for  whom  Mr.  Lane  had  destined 
the  book ;  in  this  edition  I  have  therefore  omitted  many  of  the  notes,  which 
will  not  be  missed  by  the  reader  for  whom  the  book  is  intended,  and  for 


TRUBNER'S  ORIENTAL  SERIES. 


which  the  Arabic  scholar  has  only  to  refer  to  the  first  edition,  or  to  S;iles' 
Koran,  whence  most  of  them  were  derived.  Again,  the  text  of  the  first 
edition  was  obscured  and  interrupted  by  an  interwoven  commentary,  which 
destroyed  the  pleasure  of  the  language,  and  often  made  the  meaning  less 
intelligible  than  befoi'e.  This  commentary  has  been  thinned.  "Where  it 
added  nothing  to  the  text  it  has  been  erased  ;  whei-e  it  gave  a  curious  or 
valuable  explanation  it  has  been  thrown  into  a  footnote ;  where  it  merely 
supplied  a  necessary  word  to  complete  the  sense,  that  word  has  been  left  in 
the  text,  distinguished  by  a  different  type.  Once  more,  the  earh'  and  wilder 
soorahs  were  almost  wholly  omitted  in  the  first  edition,  whilst  the  later, 
more  dogmatic  and  less  poetical  soorahs  were  perhaps  too  fully  rein'esented. 
I  have  endeavoured  to  establish  the  balance  between  the  two. 


Post  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  xliv. — 376,  price  14s. 

METRICAL   TRANSLATIONS   FROM   SANSKRIT 

WRITERS. 

"With  an  Introduction,  Prose  Versions,  and  Parallel  Passages 
from  Classical  Authors. 

By  J.  MUIR,  CLE.,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.,  Ph.D. 

The  present  embraces  the  contents  of  the  little  work  entitled  "Religious 
and  Moral  Sentiments,  metrically  rendered  from  Sanskrit  "Writers,"  &c., 
published  by  Messrs.  "Williams  k,  Nokgate  in  1875,  together  with  Three 
collections  of  "Versified  Translations  subsequently  printed,  but  not  published, 
and  a  reprint  of  the  metrical  pieces  contaiued  in  "Volumes  II.  and  V.  of  the 
author's  "Original  Sanskrit  Texts,"  &c. 


Post  Bvo,  cloth,  i^p.  vi. — 368,  price 

MODERN  INDIA  AND  THE  INDIANS, 
BEING  A  SERIES  OF  IMPRESSIONS,  NOTES,  AND  ESSAYS. 

By  MONIER  WILLIAMS,  D.C.L., 

lion.  LL.D.  of  tlie  University  of  Calcutta,  Hon.  Member  of  the  Bombiiy  Asiatic 
Society,  Jiodeu  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  Uuiversity  of  Oxford. 

Third  Edition,  revised  and  augmented  by  considerable  Additions, 
with  Illustrations  and  a  Maji. 


Till':  FOLLOWING  WORKS  ARE  NEARLY  READY :- 
Second  Edition,  post  Bvo,  cloth. 

THE     GULISTAN; 

Ok,  ROSE  GARDEN  OF  SHEKH  MUSHLIU'D-DIN  SADI  OF 

SHIUAZ. 

Translated  for  the  First  Time  into  Prose  and  Verse,  with  an  Introductoiy 
Preface,  and  a  Life  of  the  Author,  from  the  Atish  Kadali, 

By    EDWARD    W.    lOASTWlCK,    F.R  S.,    M.K.A.S,    &c. 


TRUBNER'S  ORIENTAL  SERIES. 


In  Two  Volumes,  post  8vo,  cloth, 

MISCELLANEOUS  ESSAYS  RELATING  TO  INDIAN 

SUBJECTS. 

Br  B.  H.  HODGSON, 
Late  British  Minister  at  Nepal. 


Third  Edition,  Two  Vols.,  post  8vo. 

THE  LIFE  OR  LEGEND  OF  GAUDAMA, 
THE  BUDDHA  OF  THE  BURMESE. 

With  Annotations. 

The  Ways  to  Neibban,  and  Notice  on  the  Phongyics  or  Burmese  Monks. 

By  the  Eight  Rev.  V.  BIGANDET, 
Bishop  of  Ramatha,  Vicar  Apostolic  of  Ava  and  Pegu. 


THE  FOLLOWING  WORKS  ARE  IN  PREPARATION:— 

Post  8vo,  cloth. 
THE  JATAKA  STORIES. 

With  the  Commentary  and  Collection  of  Buddhist  Fairy  Tales,  Fables,  and 

Folk  Lore. 

Translated  from  the  Original  Pali  by  T.  W.  Rhys  Dayids. 

(The  First  Part  of  the  Commentary  contains  the  most  Complete  Account 
we  yet  have  of  the  Life  of  liuddha.) 


Post  Bvo,  cloth. 

CHINESE    BUDDHISM. 

A  VOLUME  OF  SKETCHES,  HISTORICAL  AND  CRITICAL. 

By  J.  EDKINS,  D.D., 
Author  of  "  China's  Place  in  Philology,"  "  Religion  in  China,"  &c.,  <S:c. 


TRUBNER'S  ORIENTAL  SERIES. 


In  Two  Volumes,  post  8vo,  cloth. 

BUDDHIST  RECORDS  OF  THE  WESTERN  WORLD, 

BEING  THE  SI-YU-KI  BY  HYEN  THSANG. 
Translated  from  the  Original  Chinese,  with  Introduction,  Index,  &c. 

By  SAMUEL  BEAL, 

Trinity  College,  Cambridge  ;  Professor  of  Chinese,  University 

College,  London. 

Post  8vo,  cloth. 

THE    POEMS    OF   HAFIZ    OF    SHIRAZ. 

Translated  from  the  Persian  into  English  Verse 

By  E.  H.  PALMER,  M.A., 
Professor  of  Arabic  in  the  University  of  Cambridge. 


In  Four  Volumes,  post  8vo,  cloth. 

ORIENTAL  RELIGIONS  IN  THEIR  RELATION  TO 
UNIVERSAL  RELIGION. 

By  SAMUEL  JOHNSON". 

First  Section — India.    Second  Section— China. 


Post  Bvo,  cloth. 
INDIAN  TALES  FROM  TIBETAN  SOURCES. 

Translated  from  the  Tibetan  into  German,  with  Introductions,  by  Anton 
SCHIEFNER,  of  the  Imperial  Academy  of  St.  Petersburg. 

Rendered  into  English,  with  Notes,  by  W.  R.  S.  Ralston. 


LONDON  :    TRUBNER  &  CO.,  57  and  59  LUDGATE  HILL. 
10/79 


^^ 


'-»         ,  "VO      ■- 


'    ■■•K'."i'-.». 


^-if;*!; 


m 


-?A* 


.<•-.: 


iJ^^ 


;?K^-:-- 


\ 


BL1105.D75 

A  classical  dictionary  of  Hindu 

Princeton  Theological  Semmary-Speer  Library 


1    1012  00009  6117 


\ 


