CONTEMPORARY 
FRENCH  LITERATURE 


' 


L15 


'L 


RENE  LALOU 


CONTEMPORARY 


▼7 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 


FRENCH  LITERATURE 


ui 


TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  FRENCH  BY  WILLIAM  ASPENWALL  BRADLEY 


NEW  YORK  ALFRED  A  KNOPF  •  MCMXXIV 


A  A.A.A.A.A.A.A, 


COPYRIGHT,  1922,  BY  LES  EDITIONS  G.  CRES  ET  CIE.  * 
COPYRIGHT,  1924,  BY  ALFRED  A.  KNOPF,  INC.  *  PUB¬ 
LISHED,  OCTOBER,  1924  '  SET  UP,  ELECTROTYPED  AND 
PRINTED  BY  THE  VAIL- BALLOU  PRESS,  INC.,  BINGHAM¬ 
TON,  N.  Y.  *  PAPER  MANUFACTURED  BY  THE  TICON- 
DEROGA  PULP  AND  PAPER  CO.,  TICONDEROGA,  N.  Y.  AND 
FURNISHED  BY  W.  F.  ETHERINGTON  &  CO.,  NEW  YORK  . 

BOUND  BY  THE  H.  WOLFF  ESTATE,  NEW  YORK.  * 


MANUFACTURED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


FOREWORD  TO  THE  AMERICAN  EDITION 


When  the  present  work  appeared  in  November,  1922,  it  was  the  first 
general  study  of  recent  French  literature,  and  it  has  remained  the  only 
one  so  far.  I  may,  perhaps,  be  permitted  to  mention  the  fact  that 
this  attempt  has  met  with  some  success,  seeing  that  the  success  of  such 
a  book  is  due  much  less  to  the  writer  than  to  those  it  was  written  for. 
In  undertaking  it,  my  intention  was  to  render  faithfully  the  successive 
phases  of  a  spiritual  drama,  to  follow  the  artistic  adventures  of  French 
thought  through  half  a  century.  I  wanted  at  once  to  present  the 
reader  with  a  panoramic  picture,  showing  what  a  rich  crop  of  talents 
may  be  garnered  in  contemporary  French  literature,  and  to  insist  upon 
great  figures,  giving  our  protagonists  their  due.  I  wanted,  moreover, 
to  indicate  the  continuity  of  the  creative  effort  during  this  period, 
indicating  the  growth  of  one  movement  out  of  another,  by  action  or 
reaction,  and  stressing  the  vigorous  vitality  of  the  movement  itself, 
rather  than  its  artificial  division  into  schools.  Life  is  deeper  than 
dogmatism.  I  have  tried  to  follow  life  faithfully,  looking  at  it  closely 
until  some  order  appeared,  rather  than  accepting  any  order  imposed 
upon  it  from  without.  Hence  I  have  frequently  painted  several  por¬ 
traits  of  the  same  author  when  his  influence  was  felt  in  different  fields 
and  have,  throughout,  dwelt  upon  such  facts  as  bore  witness,  under 
the  necessary  division  into  chapters,  to  the  unity  of  my  subject.  It 
has  been  my  reward  that  many  should  have  regarded  my  book  as  a 
living  organism. 

Although  useful  as  a  text-book,  the  work  was  primarily  intended  for 
the  general  reader.  It  was  also  designed  to  serve  a  foreign  as  well  as 
a  French  public.  The  French  preface  said  this  explicitly.  Many 
foreign  critics  have  warmly  praised  a  book  not  planned  from  a  strictly 
national  point  of  view.  In  France,  all  reviewers  were  not  equally 
satisfied ;  but,  as  I  wanted  aid  rather  than  commendation,  I  derived  the 
former  even  from  such  attacks  as  were  not  entirely  disinterested.  So 
I  was  able  to  bring  out,  in  February,  1924,  a  new  French  edition  of 
the  book,  revue  et  augmentee. 

The  English  version  is  the  work  of  an  editor*  and  of  a  translator 

*  Certain  cuts  were  made  in  the  French  text  for  the  purpose  of  this  translation 
hy  Mr.  Ernest  Boyd. 


VI 


FOREWORD  TO  THE  AMERICAN  EDITION 


whose  names  are  a  guarantee  of  competence  and  accuracy.  It  follows 
closely  the  revised  French  edition  which  may  now  be  said  to  be  quite 
complete.  Nothing  essential  has  been  omitted  in  this  English  version; 
and  if  certain  chapters  have  been  reduced  in  length,  mainly  by  the 
abridgment  of  extended  poetic  analyses,  while  certain  lists  and  sum¬ 
maries  have  been  suppressed,  this  has  been  done  to  bring  out  in  a 
sharper,  clearer  light  the  great  lines  of  the  drama,  with  the  importance 
of  the  principal  actors. 


R.  L. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Foreword 


PAGH 

V 


Chapter  I.  Literary  Influences  in  1871  ........  3 

1.  The  Liquidation  of  Romanticism . 3 

2.  New  Influences . 7 

Chapter  II.  Le  Parnasse . .17 

1.  The  Masters  of  Le  P amass e . 17 

2.  The  Foothills  of  Le  Parnasse . 26 


Chapter  III.  Realism . 28 

1.  Realism  and  Naturalism . 28 

2.  The  Naturalistic  Novel:  The  Goncourts . 28 

3.  Alphonse  Daudet . 32 

4.  Emile  Zola . 34 

5.  Guy  de  Maupassant . .  ....  38 

6.  J.-K.  Huysmans . 42 

7.  Jules  Renard . 45 

8.  Naturalism  in  the  Theatre . 49 

Chapter  IV.  The  Anti-Naturalistic  Reaction . 52 

1.  Influences.  Barbey  d’Aurevilly . 52 

2.  Idealism.  Villiers  de  l’lsle-Adam . 55 

3.  The  Psychological  Novel.  Paul  Bourget . 60 

4.  Maurice  Barres  and  le  Culte  du  Moi . 62 

5.  Anatole  France  and  Intellectual  Fantasy . 67 

6.  Pierre  Loti  and  Exoticism . .  .  71 

7.  The  Romantic  and  Regionalistic  Novel . 74 

8.  The  Moral  and  Social  Novel . 76 

Chapter  V.  Origins  of  the  Contemporary  Drama . 80 

1.  Frangois  de  Curel  and  the  Drama  of  Ideas . 80 

2.  The  Psychological  Drama  . . 84 

3.  The  Problem  Play . 88 

4.  Light  Comedy . 89 

5.  Verse  Drama . .  ,  91 


vu 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


viii 

PAGE 

Chapter  VI.  Symbolism . 94 

1.  The  Symbolist  Movement . 94 

2.  Three  Precursors . 96 

3.  Arthur  Rimbaud . 101 

4.  Paul  Verlaine  .  110 

5.  Stephane  Mallarme . 118 

6.  The  Symbolist  School . 127 

7.  The  Poets  of  the  North . 136 

8.  From  Symbolism  to  Classicism . 142 

9.  The  Symbolist  Drama . 147 

10.  Schwob  and  Gourmont . 150 

11.  Conclusion  .  ' . 157 

Chapter  VII.  Traditionalism  and  Internationalism  .  .  .  .159 

1.  Counter-Revolution  and  Naturalism . 159 

2.  Revolutionary  Spirit  and  Internationalism . 173 

3.  Internationalism  and  Nationalism . 190 

4.  Charles  Peguy  .  197 

/  Chapter  VIII.  Contemporary  Poetry . 208 

1.  Romantics  and  Symbolists  . . 209 

2.  The  Traditionalistic  Poets . 213 

3.  Feminine  Romanticism . 216 

4.  The  Intimists . 220 

5.  The  Fantasists . 223 

6.  From  the  Cubists  to  the  Dadaists . 227 

7.  Philosophical  and  Social  Poetry . 236 

8.  Jules  Romains  and  the  Abbaye . 241 

9.  Paul  Claudel  and  Paul  Valery . 253 

Chapter  IX.  The  Contemporary  Drama . 271 

1.  The  Psychological  Drama . 271 

2.  The  Play . 276 

3.  Social  Satire . 280 

4.  Comedy . 282 

5.  Verse  Drama  and  Plays  by  Poets . 284 

Chapter  X.  The  Contemporary  Novel . 287 

1.  The  Story-Tellers . 287 

2.  The  Artistic  Novel  . . 291 

3.  Exoticism  and  Adventure . 296 

4.  The  Novel  of  Imagination . 302 

5.  The  War  Novel . 305 

6.  The  Social  Novel:  Observation  and  Satire . 310 

7.  The  Provincial  and  Regionalistic  Novel . 321 

8.  The  Analytical  Novel . 325 

9.  The  Women  Novelists . 330 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  ix 

PAGE 

Chapter  XI.  Some  Tendencies . 336 

1.  From  Stendhal  to  Gobineau . 336 

2.  Intelligence  and  Intuition . 340 

3.  Art  and_  the  People . 344 

4.  The  Ego  and  the  Universe . 351 

5.  Andre  Gide . 359 

Chapter  XII.  Conclusion . 370 

1.  Criticism . 370 

2.  Revues,  Journalists  and  Orators . 373 

3.  History . 374 

4.  Philosophy . 376 

Appendices: . .  . . 

A.  Notes  on  the  Abbaye  by  Rene  Arcos . 379 

B.  General  Works  to  be  Consulted . 382 

C.  Bibliographical  List . 383 


Alphabetical  Index 


397 


CONTEMPORARY 
FRENCH  LITERATURE 


CHAPTER  I 


LITERARY  INFLUENCES  IN  1871 

1.  THE  LIQUIDATION  OF  ROMANTICISM 

IF  the  Franco-German  War  of  1870-71  marks  the  end  of  one 
period  and  the  beginning  of  another  in  the  political  history  of 
France,  the  break  is  less  definite  as  regards  it's  literary  history. 
For  the  War  of  1870  was  military  rather  than  economic.  The 
whole  nation  was  not  involved.  Certain  details  were  well  qualified  to 
strike  the  imagination  of  the  writers,  but  its  duration  was  too  short 
to  inspire  more  than  occasional  works,  to  evoke  from  them  other  than 
brief  echoes.  UAnnee  terrible  adds  no  more  to  Hugo’s  literary 
production  than  Le  Dormeur  du  Val  to  Rimbaud’s.  Whether 
the  reaction  be  book  or  sonnet,  it  remains  in  each  case  momentary, 
limited  to  a  few  patriotic  poems  or  plays. 

The  Restoration  and  the  July  Monarchy  had  seen  the  birth  and  the 
triumph  of  Romanticism,  overthrowing  classical  literature  as  the 
Revolution  had  overthrown  traditional  politics.  Under  the  Second 
Empire,  Baudelaire,  Leconte  de  Lisle,  Taine,  Renan,  Flaubert,  how¬ 
ever  different  in  other  ways,  concurred  in  reacting  against  this 
Romanticism.  With  the  fall  of  the  Empire  coincided  the  disappear¬ 
ance  of  several  of  the  representative  names  of  Romanticism.  La¬ 
martine  and  Sainte-Beuve  died  in  1869,  Merimee  and  Dumas  in  1870, 
Gautier  in  1872.  It  was  among  the  adversaries  of  Romanticism  that 
the  generation  which  entered  upon  its  literary  life  about  1871  had 
chosen  its  masters.  The  war,  even  the  defeat,  did  not  cause  it  to  lose 
any  of  its  artistic  lucidity.  In  its  eyes,  the  most  urgent  necessity  was 
to  finish  the  work  its  guides  had  begun,  to  continue  the  liquidation  of 
Romanticism. 

Romanticism  was  liquidated,  but  with  the  burning  of  incense, 
almost  with  the  deification  of  the  last  and  most  illustrious  of  its 
leaders.  Hugo’s  fame,  after  1870,  like  Voltaire’s  in  his  last  years, 
was  not  purely  literary.  The  poet  who  had  personified  irreducible 
resistance  to  imperial  usurpation  returned  to  France  in  an  apothe¬ 
osis.  He  had  fifteen  years  left  to  go  from  the  Arc  de  Triomphe  to 
the  Pantheon. 


3 


4  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

His  influence  on  the  mind  of  his  contemporaries  was,  however,  due 
rather  to  the  admiration  they  felt  for  the  person  of  a  recognized  and 
licensed  genius,  for  a  kind  of  official  bard,  the  gigantic  survivor  of  a 
past  epoch,  than  to  the  wonder  of  new  poetic  conquests  in  the  works 
which  poured  from  his  pen.  In  Les  Contemplations,  Les  Cliatiments 
and  the  first  series  of  La  Legende  des  siecles,  Hugo  had  attained  the 
three  summits,  lyric,  satiric,  and  epic,  of  his  genius.  The  poems  of 
the  last  fifteen  years  play  on  the  same  themes  with  a  constantly  re¬ 
newed  virtuosity  but  bring  no  fresh  affirmation  either  in  the  form 
or  in  the  subject.  More  than  ever  the  “I”  parades  itself  without  re¬ 
serve,  without  discipline,  without  choice,  whether  apropos  of  the 
puerile  incidents  recounted  in  U Art  d'etre  grand-pere  or  the  proph¬ 
ecies  terminating  La  Legende  des  siecles.  More  than  ever  Hugo’s 
works,  whether  they  be  called  novels  like  Quatre-vingt-tpeize  or  dramas 
like  Torquemada,  are  vast  monologues  in  which  the  poet  blesses  or 
curses. 

For  the  essential  trait  of  this  poetry  is  to  take  sides.  With 
advancing  years  Hugo’s  vision  had  become,  if  not  enlarged,  at  least 
simplified.  The  Shadow  strives  by  every  means  to  hold  back  humanity 
in  its  progress  towards  the  Light.  Such  are  his  metaphysics.  The 
champions  of  the  Light  are  saints.  The  partisans  of  the  Shadow  are 
diabolical.  Such  is  his  psychology.  Le  Pape  is  constructed  on  such 
a  series  of  mad,  naively  obvious  antitheses  which  inspired  Hugo  al¬ 
ternately  with  meditations  verging  on  the  grotesque  ( En  voyant  une 
nourrice)  and  admirable  lyrical  verse  ( En  voyant  passer  des  brebis 
tondues).  La  Pitie  supreme  develops  the  same  gospel  of  universal 
pity — all  must  be  pitied,  even  tyrants — and  of  love.  It  is  this  same 
conception  of  the  world  which  L’Ane  expounds  to  Kant  in  a  series  of 
cock-and-bull  stories  which  its  title  does  not  suffice  to  justify  and 
which,  however,  remain  one  of  Hugo’s  essential  traits.  In  Religions 
et  Religion  is  found,  side  by  side  with  apocalyptic  pretensions  the 
sincerity  of  which  disarms  all  irony,  an  awakening  of  the  old  picaresque 
spirit  which  created  Don  Cesar  de  Bazan : 

Dieu  s’est  laisse  tomber  dans  sen  fauteuil  Voltaire 
•  •••••• 

Et  n’etant  plus  bon  Dieu  tache  d’etre  bon  diable. 

We  must  not  blame  this  enormous  sans-gene  which  preserves  God  and 
his  high-priest  from  silliness. 

Les  Quatre  vents  de  Vesprit  forms  the  apogee  of  this  last  period  and 
Hugo’s  poetic  testament.  Herein  are  found  all  his  weaknesses  which 


LITERARY  INFLUENCES  IN  1871  5 

spring  essentially  from  the  simplicist  and  antithetical  philosophy  he 
cannot  refrain  from  lending  to  all  his  characters,  and  from  his  inca¬ 
pacity  for  seeing  the  center  of  the  world  elsewhere  than  in  himself. 
His  poetry  therefore  is  almost  always  occasional  poetry,  whether  in  the 
higher  sense  of  the  word  when  he  undertakes  to  denounce  the  crimes  of 
humanity — the  death  penalty,  for  example — or  those  responsible  for 
human  slavery — kings  and  priests  for  the  most  part — or,  under  a 
pettier  aspect  when,  replying  to  personal  enemies,  he  enters  upon  un¬ 
ending  polemics  and  voluminous  justifications  stuffed  with  topical 
allusions  already  requiring  a  glossary. 

To  the  very  end,  however,  Hugo  kept  his  prodigious  qualities. 
Under  his  gaze  objects  grew  animated,  fertilizing  his  brain  in  return 
with  a  harvest  of  images,  metaphors,  comparisons,  symbols,  where  the 
sublime  and  the  ridiculous  are  inextricably  entangled.  Irony  over¬ 
flows  in  Le  Livre  satirique  with  the  same  abundance  as  oratorical 
development  in  Le  Livre  lyrique.  It  is  possible  to  smile  at  the  melo¬ 
dramatic  turn  in  the  Deux  trouvailles  de  Gallus.  It  is  impossible  to 
deny  the  verbal  power  which  swells  these  tirades,  making  up  for  the 
flimsiness  of  the  characters,  creating  an  atmosphere  where  the  question 
of  truth,  even  of  verisimilitude,  no  longer  presents  itself,  where  the 
human  voice  seems  to  equal  those  great  voices  of  nature — murmurs 
of  the  sea,  whisperings  of  the  wind,  which  are  less  the  music  of  an 
epoch  or  of  a  country  than  a  kind  of  confused  hymn  to  all  earthly 
beauty. 

None  of  the  young  poets  of  the  time  refused  Hugo  his  incense,  but 
they  went  for  lessons  to  Leconte  de  Lisle,  the  poet  whose  work 
and  thought  offered  them  a  model  of  devotion  to  pure  art,  of  obedience 
to  unalterable  principles.  Twenty  years  later  he  had  nothing  to  re¬ 
tract  from  the  preface  to  Poemes  antiques  where,  in  1852,  he  judged 
Romanticism  “a  second-hand  art,  hybrid  and  incoherent,  a  noisy 
comedy  played  for  the  benefit  of  a  borrowed  self-worship.”  He  pre¬ 
dicted  its  immediate  decline.  “We  are  a  learned  generation,”  he  con¬ 
tinued.  “Art  and  science  should  tend  to  unite  closely,  if  not  to  become 
one.”  Presenting  Poemes  antiques  to  the  public,  he  opposed  the  lyric 
rage  of  his  rivals  with  “the  impersonality  and  the  neutrality  of  these 
studies.” 

He  was,  moreover,  by  no  means  so  neutral  as  he  pretended.  Re¬ 
turning,  in  the  preface  to  Poemes  et  Poesies  (1855),  to  his  former 
declarations,  with  the  intention  of  confirming  or,  if  need  be,  of  re¬ 
enforcing  them,  he  wrote  that  the  modern  era  leaves  poets  no  other 
choice  than  silence  or  “the  necessity  of  annihilating  their  nature  to  the 


6  Contemporary  french  literature 

profit  of  some  monstrous  alliance  between  poetry  and  industry.”  “It 
is  for  this  reason,”  he  concluded,  “I  hate  my  epoch.”  In  spite  of  his 
concern  for  objectivity,  this  hatred  betrayed  itself  in  his  poems  and 
his  “neutrality”  was  rather  an  inverted  partiality;  but  it  permitted 
him  to  maintain  a  dignified  attitude  in  the  face  of  the  chiefs  of  the  Ro¬ 
manticism  he  dethroned.  It  was  known  no  petty  jealousy  actuated 
him  when  he  reproached  Vigny  with  having  conceived  his  Moses  as  a 
symbol  without  bothering  about  his  historical  verisimilitude.  He  was 
not  open  to  the  suspicion  of  disparagement  when  he  asserted  that 
Lamartine  would  have  been  great  had  he  not  lacked  “love  and  religious 
respect  for  Art.”  His  creative  work  was  contained  in  three  thin 
volumes.  Nevertheless  he  was  to  have  the  right,  in  1887,  replacing 
Hugo  in  the  Academy,  to  meet  the  Titan  on  equal  terms.  Noting, 
with  a  sure  touch,  that  the  author  of  La  Legende  des  siecles  “merely 
borrows  from  history  and  legend  settings  more  interesting  in  them¬ 
selves  through  which  to  develop  the  passions  and  hopes  of  his  time,” 
he  defined,  by  the  comparison,  his  own  conception  of  art,  diametrically 
opposed  to  Hugo’s,  but  shared  by  all  those  who  were  weary  of  the  tide 
of  verbal  egotism  which,  for  half  a  century,  had  been  submerging 
Europe. 

Not  that  Leconte  de  Lisle  himself  brought  any  surprise  to  his  ad¬ 
mirers.  Les  Poemes  tragiques  continued  the  Antiques  and  the  Bar- 
bates  with  the  same  formal  magnificence,  the  same  sternly  serene 
visions  ( U Albatros ,  La  Chasse  de  Vaigle)  expressed  in  marmorean 
verse.  At  most  could  be  occasionally  discerned  a  trace  of  emotion 
( Les  Roses  d’lspahan,  Le  Parfwm  imp eris sable)  in  this  impassibilit}'. 
Perhaps  a  malicious  critic  might  have  enjoyed  stressing  the  rancour 
of  the  old  democrat,  hostile  to  obscurantism,  who,  even  while  borrow¬ 
ing  from  the  Middle  Ages  its  picturesqueness  ( Dona  Blanca,  Hierony¬ 
mus,  Le  Levrier  de  Magnus ),  denounced  its  cruelties  with  a  violence 
equal  to  Hugo’s  ( Les  Siecles  maudits )  ;  but  the  essential  element  of  this 
third  panel  of  the  triptych  was  no  more  such  revolt  than  it  was  the 
occasional  poems  on  the  Sucre  de  Paris.  What  Leconte  de  Lisle’s 
pupils  wanted  to  learn  from  him  was  the  art  of  plenitude,  the  art  of 
the  definitive  verse  and  of  the  perfect  stanza  where  the  affirmation 
weighs  less  by  virtue  of  its  intellectual  value  than  of  its  sovereign 
rhythm. 

It  would  not,  moreover,  be  just  to  attribute  to  all  the  Romantics 
a  Lamartine’s  scorn  for  syntax  and  a  Musset’s  poetical  negligences. 
Theophile  Gautier,  painter-poet,  had  exalted  eternal  art  and  carried 
the  religion  of  form  as  far  as  Leconte  de  Lisle  himself ;  but  already  his 
disciple  Banville  had  shown  the  ditch  into  which  poetry,  thus  under- 


LITERARY  INFLUENCES  IN  1871  7 

stood,  was  in  danger  of  falling.  Hugo  had  sometimes  amused  him¬ 
self,  as  a  sort  of  pastime,  with  the  pursuit  of  the  rime  riche ,  not  per¬ 
haps  in  despite  of  sense,  but  for  the  sake  of  the  unexpected  senses  it 
suggests  to  the  adventurous  poet.  It  became  Banville’s  unique  preoc¬ 
cupation  and  lends  his  poems  an  air  of  often  clown-like  improvisation. 

Warned  by  this  example,  the  young  poets,  after  a  formal  homage 
to  Hugo,  maintained,  with  respect  to  the  masters  of  the  preceding  gen¬ 
eration,  a  reserve  not  altogether  free  from  hostility.  Their  sympathy 
and  their  confidence  they  accorded  fully  to  Leconte  de  Lisle  alone  who, 
twenty  years  earlier,  had  defined  their  aspirations  and  declared  war, 
in  their  name,  against  all  forms  of  romantic  grandiloquence. 

2.  NEW  INFLUENCES 

If,  however,  the  Jeunes  of  1870  deliberately  dismissed  names  re¬ 
garded  as  glorious,  they  were,  in  return,  enthusiastic  over  writers 
whom  their  contemporaries  disregarded  or  to  whom,  at  least,  had  not 
been  rendered  full  justice. 

Charles  Baudelaire  was  the  precursor  for  the  poets  of  the  last 
quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century.  All,  by  turns,  were  able  to  claim 
the  author  of  Fleurs  du  Mai  as  one  of  theirs.  Because  he  had  been 
passionately  modern,  because  no  refinement  of  his  epoch  left  him  in¬ 
different,  Baudelaire  saw  minds  of  the  utmost  diversity  gravitate  to¬ 
wards  him.  He  is  great,  not  by  the  abundance  of  his  work  but  by  the 
number  of  goals  and  points  of  departure  it  implies.  Hugo  aims  to 
derive  the  greatest  number  of  variations  from  a  given  theme.  Baude¬ 
laire,  inversely,  strives  to  evoke,  in  a  few  chords,  in  a  quintessential 
music,  the  greatest  possible  number  of  intellectual  or  sentimental 
themes.  He  revives  the  classical  development  on  poetic  immortality 
( Je  te  donne  ces  vers),  renewing  it  with  the  hint  of  a  strange  mysticism. 
Benediction  treats  the  romantic  motive  of  the  unrecognized  artist  but, 
instead  of  the  expected  revolt,  ends  in  suave  swinging  of  the  censer. 
Although  he  can  praise  paganism  and  the  “nude  epochs,”  Christianity 
has  no  secrets  for  him.  He  has  kept  its  soaring  prayer,  its  searchings 
of  conscience,  its  struggles  with  the  Tempter  in  which  the  wrestling 
is  at  once  so  strenuous  and  so  agreeable.  Lie  has  kept  its  love  of  the 
beautiful  spreading  hierarchy,  of  the  hymns  in  the  impassioned  Latin 
of  the  Decadence  ( Franciscos  meaz  laudes ),  and  its  sensual  taste  for 
the  intoxication  of  myrrh,  spikenard  and  incense.  Gautiei  did  not 
more  highly  exalt  Beauty,  Queen  of  the  world.  Leconte  de  Lisle  and 
the  Parnassians  produced  nothing  more  formally  impeccable  than 
Le  Chant  d’Automne.  The  poem,  La  Servante  au  grand  cosur,  unites 
the  most  profound  sentiment  with  the  easiest  conversational  style.  At 


8  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  moment  when  realism  and  idealism  were  about  to  start  a  new 
struggle  the  stake  of  which  was  artistic  supremacy,  Baudelaire  had 
written  La  Charogne  in  which  the  two  inspirations  are  so  curiously 
blended.  The  sickly  poems  which  apparently  added  one  more  string 
to  his  lyre  and  a  shiver  to  the  soul  were  not  really  the  most  revolu¬ 
tionary  of  the  collection.  Those  for  which  this  title  should  be  re¬ 
served  are  the  ones  where,  apropos  of  an  artistic  impression  ( Une 
Martyre ),  a  commonplace  meeting  ( Une  Passante ),  an  hour  of  reverie 
(Recueillement) ,  he  suddenly  illumines  the  most  secret  places  of  the 
human  heart — the  ones  where  his  thought  recovers  (La  Chevelure , 
Correspondances) ,  under  various  symbolical  aspects  of  Beauty,  the 
ways  which  lead  the  spirit  to  still  other  symbols — the  ones  where, 
through  the  perfection  of  the  rhythm  (Harmonie  du  Soir),  or  through 
his  originality  (Invitation  au  voyage ),  he  preludes  the  music,  alter¬ 
nately  precise  and  elusive,  which  will  be  elected  by  two  generations  of 
poets. 

Doubtless  these  are  the  heights,  and  criticisms  which  are  not  un¬ 
justified  have  been  addressed  to  Baudelaire.  In  spite  of  the  probity  of 
his  work,  weaknesses  abound:  abuse  of  commonplaces  (rhetoric  jars  in 
him  even  more  than  in  any  other  poet),  insipid  verses,  obscurities,  in¬ 
digent  correctness  of  writing.  He  has  been  accused  of  not  being  a 
poet  born,  on  the  plea  that  certain  of  his  Poems  en  prose  are  superior 
to  poems  treating  the  same  subject  in  verse.  The  truth  is  that,  in 
both  domains,  he  creates  for  himself,  constantly,  his  instrument.  This 
effort  explains  many  of  the  inequalities.  A  more  serious  reproach  is 
the  want  of  sustained  power  so  characteristic  of  his  work.  A  sonnet 
like  Correspondances,  after  the  most  admirable  beginning,  runs  out. 
The  idea  of  the  unity  of  life  which  expresses  itself  in  rhythmical 
correspondences  fills  the  mind  with  such  sublimity  that  the  example 
of  the  perfumes  seems  a  little  trivial  to  crown  the  vision  of  an  enlarged 
universe. 

Yet  this  discrimination — which  has,  moreover,  left  Baudelaire  in  the 
first  rank  of  French  poets — could  not  be  expected  of  those  who, 
about  1870,  hailed  him  as  a  master.  Celebrated  by  the  Parnassians, 
he  was  the  initiator  of  the  original  Symbolists.  His  influence  has 
not  ceased  to  be  active.  His  entire  lucidity,  the  sureness  of  his  judg¬ 
ment,  the  Phares  or  his  studies  on  Poe,  had  borne  ample  witness  to  it. 
His  Lettres  multiplied  the  proofs.  He  was  the  first  Frenchman  to 
place  Wagner  intelligently,  and  his  articles  on  this  subject  remain 
models.  He  outdistanced  all  his  contemporaries.  Denouncing  the 
artifices  of  Hugo  and  of  Leconte  de  Lisle,  he  threw  new  light  upon  the 
subtleties  of  Sainte-Beuve  and  the  books  in  which  Gerard  de  Nerval  had 


LITERARY  INFLUENCES  IN  1871  9 

interwoven  the  threads  of  dream  and  of  life.  For  half  a  century 
there  has  not  been  a  single  stir  of  artistic  sensibility  of  which 
Baudelaire  did  not  at  least  indicate  the  first  thrill. 

“I  shall  be  understood  about  1880,”  Stendhal  had  said.  The  term 
fixed  by  him  approached  and  his  influence  was  increasing,  precisely 
as  he  had  predicted  in  this  sally  which  mingled  a  little  pique  with  con¬ 
siderable  lucidity.  Stendhal’s  novels  make  indeed  many  concessions 
to  the  ambient  Romanticism:  litter  of  romantic  adventures,  fre¬ 
quent  coups  de  theatre,  inordinate  digressions,  Napoleonic  enthusiasm 
and,  above  all,  choice  of  exceptional  subjects  and  characters.  These 
external  traits  did  not,  however,  suffice  to  give  them  a  really  Romantic 
aspect.  It  was  too  clearly  felt  that  the  spirit  animating  them  was 
attached  to  a  different,  if  not  a  conflicting  tradition.  There  is  nothing 
astonishing  in  their  slight  success  among  his  contemporaries,  Balzac 
and  Merimee  excepted. 

There  is  nothing  astonishing,  either,  in  the  admiration  they  excited 
in  Taine  here  followed  by  the  new  generation.  Did  not  Stendhal, 
through  his  worship  of  individualism  and  of  energy,  save  everything  in 
Romanticism  which  was  not  momentary  caprice  or  false  liberty,  a  real 
claim  to  inalienable  human  right?  To  all  those  whom  half  a  century’s 
worship  of  the  ego  had  for  ever  given  the  obsession  of  human  origi¬ 
nality,  he  appeared  as  a  precursor,  a  guide  the  more  trustworthy 
through  having  clad  this  exaltation  in  a  form  cold,  detached  from  its 
theme,  as  objective  as  the  Code  civil,  which  could,  in  literary  language, 
be  called  scientific. 

His  was  a  strange  fortune,  this  belated  disciple  of  the  ideologists, 
a  great  or  a  mediocre  writer  according  to  the  standpoint  of  the  critic, 
a  profound  connoisseur  of  the  human  heart  or  a  self-limited  psycholo¬ 
gist  according  to  the  angle  from  which  he  is  considered,  capable  of 
indifferent  irony  with  regard  to  masterpieces  and  of  puerile  rapture 
over  a  second-rate  opera,  a  prodigious  mystifier  caught  in  his  own 
snares  in  wit  as  well  as  in  life,  and  it  is  hard  to  say,  in  the  last  analysis, 
whether  he  owes  more  disciples  to  his  dilettantism  or  to  his  naivete. 
For,  if  these  contradictions  hurt  him  in  his  own  epoch,  he  was  mar¬ 
vellously  able  to  employ  them  to  prepare  his  fame,  to  the  extent  of 
recruiting  his  most  fervent  admirers  among  those  who  saw  through  him 
most  clearly,  and  of  imposing  upon  his  true  devotees  a  flattering  bond 
of  complicity. 

For  he  is  very  great.  No  man  took  more  pride  in  seeing  cleaily, 
but  no  man  took  more  pains  to  describe  exactly  what  he  saw.  If  he, 
too,  has  remained,  for  fifty  years,  one  of  the  masters .  of  French 
thought,  if  his  fame  has  become  European,  it  is  because,  in  the  most 

O  7 


10  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

romantic  of  settings,  he  possessed  that  most  precious  of  classical  quali¬ 
ties,  discipline,  with  patient  submission  to  the  truth.  Minute  analyst, 
he  was  not  ashamed  of  the  abrupt  about-faces  by  which  really  human 
heroes  escape,  unforeseeably,  from  their  creator  himself.  However  sus¬ 
ceptible  to  diverse  interpretation  the  teaching  of  his  work  may  have 
been,  no  ambiguity  is  possible  as  to  the  lesson  of  intellectual  lucidity 
he  gave  his  successors  when  he  wrote:  “I  can  conceive  that  one 
may  not  like  to  look  at  the  real;  but  in  that  case  one  must  not  reason 
about  it.  Above  all,  one  must  not  construct  objections  out  of  the  vari¬ 
ous  pieces  of  one’s  ignorance.” 

The  real.  It  was  to  the  scrupulous  patient  representation  of  the 
real  that  Gustave  Flaubert  devoted  himself  with  a  passion  which 
brought  the  two  men  in  him  into  conflict :  “There  are,”  he  wrote,  “two 
distinct  men  in  me,  one  who  is  in  love  with  bellowing,  with  lyricism,  with 
great  eagle-flights,  with  all  the  sonorities  of  the  phrase  and  with  the 
summits  of  the  idea ;  another  who  digs  and  delves  into  the  true  as  deeply 
as  he  can,  who  loves  to  bring  out  the  little  fact  as  powerfully  as  the 
big,  who  would  like  to  make  you  feel  almost  materially  the  things  he 
reproduces.”  ( Correspondance ,  January,  1852,  to  Mme.  X.)  Now, 
in  Madame  Bovary,  published  in  1857,  this  almost  material  word- 
painting,  accused  of  indecency,  had  brought  him  before  his  country’s 
courts.  In  1870,  he  no  longer  had  to  dread  a  similar  danger. 
U  Education  sentiment  ale  found  a  public  ready  to  welcome  it  with  en¬ 
thusiasm.  “To  bring  out  the  little  fact  as  powerfully  as  the  big” 
might  be  the  motto  of  this  novel  whose  heroes  and  readers  await,  from 
beginning  to  end,  a  big  event  which  never  arrives,  while  the  stream  of 
commonplace  actions,  constituting  the  ordinary  routine  of  most  lives, 
flows  minutely,  inexorably  on.  No  work  has  had  more  influence  on 
contemporary  novelists.  It  may  be  said,  without  exaggeration,  that 
this  perfect  success  has  haunted  them  and  that,  for  a  while,  at  least, 
L'  Education  sentimentale  was  regarded  as  the  type  of  the  realistic 
novel — that  is  to  say,  the  modern  novel— in  which  the  depicting  of 
the  world  attains  an  all  but  scientific  precision. 

In  1874,  in  accordance  with  the  two-beat  rhythm  dear  to  him, 
Flaubert  published  the  third — and  definitive — version  of  La  Tentation 
de  Saint -Antoine.  The  Romantic  in  him  had  taken  its  revenge  on 
lyricism  and  sublime  flights.  Before  the  recluse  of  the  Thebais,  he  had 
deployed  the  procession  of  all  the  temptations,  the  train  of  the  desires 
of  the  flesh,  the  pack  of  the  mind’s  hallucinations ;  but  the  realist  had 
intervened  in  this  series  of  visions.  The  nightmare  was  only  an  ap¬ 
pearance.  The  general  composition  was  ordered  by  a  sure  hand. 


11 


LITERARY  INFLUENCES  IN  1871 

Nothing,  in  the  detail,  was  left  to  improvisation.  This  magnificent 
musical  prose  cloaked  a  most  scrupulously  erudite  work  comparable  to 
the  patient  researches  upon  which  Leconte  de  Lisle  prided  himself  and 
exposed  to  the  same  criticisms. 

For  if  the  idealization  of  a  living  society  is  open  to  the  reproaches 
of  the  artist’s  contemporaries,  the  realistic  painting  of  a  past  epoch 
risks  appearing  very  na'ive  to  future  and  better-informed  generations. 
Thus  it  is  not  upon  this  part  of  his  work  that  the  systematic  devotees 
of  Flaubert  base  his  surest  fame.  Yet  any  picture  of  Flaubert  is 
unjustly  false  which  isolates  one  of  the  two  aspects  of  this  great 
worker.  They  must  be  kept  united,  harmoniously  reconciled  as  they 
are  in  the  master  pages,  in  the  dialogue  of  the  Sphinx  and  the  Chimera 
where  so  much  precision  ends  by  suggesting  so  much  mystery.  This 
same  characteristic,  the  expansion  into  limitless  dream  of  a  complete 
description  which,  from  any  other  pen,  would  be  tedious,  distinguishes 
Herodias  among  the  Trois  Contes  (1877).  The  Symbolists  of  litera¬ 
ture  and  of  painting  have  been  as  much  haunted  by  the  image  of  his 
Salome  as  Zola  and  the  Naturalists  by  the  finished  descriptions  of 
Madame  Bovary  and  L’ Education. 

Writers  of  the  most  opposite  tendencies  have  an  equal  right  to  call 
themselves  painters  of  the  “real”  if  it  be  recognized  that  the  real  has 
several  faces.  Describing  the  real  meant,  for  Stendhal,  representing 
souls  struggling  against  events ;  for  Flaubert  it  was  rather  the  repre¬ 
sentation  of  events  acting  upon  souls ;  and  each  soon  espoused,  openly 
or  secretly,  the  point  of  view'  which  he  had  adopted,  perhaps  primarily 
through  a  desire  for  impartiality.  Stendhal  sides  with  Julien  Sorel 
and  with  Comte  Mosca  who  calculate  their  acts.  Flaubert  at  least 
artistically — sides  with  the  life  which  renders  Emma  Bovary  and 
Frederic  Moreau  commonplace.  If  his  portrait  of  a  centuiy  he  de¬ 
tested  remains  so  admirable,  it  is  largely  because  of  that  hatred  which 
has  given  a  unity  to  the  thousand  touches  juxtaposed  by  his  brush. 
Flaubert’s  masterpieces  are  miracles  of  equilibrium  between  the  “two 
men.”  Bouvard  et  Pecuchet  (1881),  incomplete  moreover,  is  so 
disappointing  only  because  it  unites  the  two  defects  the  truculence 
of  the  romantic  and  the  heaviness  of  the  realist  in  treating  a  subject 
where  lyricism  and  documentation  are  equally  monotonous.  Long  be¬ 
fore  Zola  and  the  naturalistic  experiment,  Flaubert’s  example  had 
proved  that  realism,  to  be  really  great,  must  follow  it’s  natural  bent 
and  culminate  in  the  epic. 

Scientific  theories  fertilize  literature  only  when  they  touch  writers 
with  a  radiance  of  greatness  and  of  beauty.  In  the  general  orienta- 


12  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

tion  of  minds  towards  a  desire  for  scientific  precision,  it  has  been  pos¬ 
sible  to  indicate  the  influence  of  Auguste  Comte,1  of  Darwin,  whose 
Origin  of  Species  was  translated  in  1862,  of  Claude  Bernard  who 
published  in  1865  his  Introduction  a  Vetnde  de  la  Medecine  experi¬ 
ment  ale;  but  in  this  reconciliation  of  science  and  literature  two  men 
have  played  a  preponderant  part  because  they  were,  at  the  same  time, 
great  scientists  and  great  writers.  Renan  and  Taine  were  the  masters 
of  thinking  for  the  generation  1870-90.  It  is  enough  to  read  the 
Souvenirs  d’Enfance  et  de  Jeunesse  in  a  sympathetic  spirit  to  feel  anew 
the  charm  with  which  Renan  then  held  his  readers  spell-bound.  There 
was  an  irresistible  fascination  in  the  spectacle  he  offered  them.  The 
erudite  author  of  that  monument,  Les  Origines  du  Christianisme,  the 
savant  who  seemed  to  have  robbed  Tubingen  of  the  first  place  in 
biblical  studies,  poured  out  his  heart  in  dramas,  dialogues  and  phil¬ 
osophical  reveries  where  ideas  clashed  in  tournaments  rather  than  in  real 
combats ;  and  the  clever  producer  of  this  phantasmagoria,  equivocally 
conjured  up  from  the  confines  of  science  and  of  myth,  did  not  conceal 
his  amusement  at  the  disarray  into  which  such  a  game  plunged  many 
a  spectator  of  this  intimate  theatre  where  the  delicate  lighting  dis¬ 
torted  the  contours  of  virtues  and  of  vices  into  disconcerting  mixtures. 
Had  not  this  Breton  written:  “The  great  depth  of  our  art  is  being 
able  to  turn  our  malady  into  a  charm”?  Chateaubriand  had  not 
more  fully  justified  this  affirmation.  Recognized  representative  of 
the  objective  method,  of  the  scientific  spirit,  of  the  “impersonal  con¬ 
cretion,”  Renan  won  the  attention  of  a  generation  by  parading  before 
them,  with  ironical  candour,  the  fits  of  temper  and  the  freaks  of  a 
mocking  old  man. 

No  one  was  more  conscious  of  this  paradox  than  he.  In  the  intimacy 
of  his  own  soul,  he  probably  excused  himself  on  the  score  of  the  number 
and  the  value  of  the  ideas  which  the  taste  for  his  person  caused  to  pene¬ 
trate  his  disciples.  He  believed  sufficiently  in  indirect  means  to  con¬ 
gratulate  himself  upon  it  and  to  conclude  that,  from  this  point  of  view 
also,  his  passage  through  the  century  would  not  have  been  in  vain. 
Admitting  the  necessity  of  finishing  the  Renanian  work  with  an  unfor¬ 
gettable  portrait  of  M.  Renan,  he  devoted  a  good  part  of  his  last  years 
to  this  portrait.  Literary  history  has  to  make  but  very  few  retouches 
in  order  to  adopt  it — neither  addition  nor  suppression,  nothing  but 
an  imperceptibly  different  distribution  of  light  and  shade;  and,  to 

i  In  a  history  of  contemporary  literature,  we  can  retain  nothing  of  Auguste 
Comte  but  his  doctrinal  influence  which  was  exerted  upon  Taine  and  Littre.  The 
extent  of  his  practical  influence  is  known  and  can  be  found  in  the  Brazilian,  Turkish, 
Portuguese  and  even  Chinese  revolutions.  His  importance  in  contemporary  thought 
will  be  recalled  in  connection!  with  Bourget  and  Maurras  (Chap.  VII). 


13 


LITERARY  INFLUENCES  IN  1871 

begin  with,  it  stresses,  as  one  of  his  significant  traits,  a  certain  want 
of  unconstraint  which  he  himself  veils  under  a  cover  of  politeness  or  of 
modesty  but  which  we,  however,  call  by  its  real  name,  dryness.  He  is 
completely  at  ease  only  before  a  public — a  public  of  well-bred  people 
who  never  interrupt  the  lecturer.  Contact  with  the  real  crowd,  in 
1870,  but  served  to  increase  his  comfortable  pessimism.  For  if,  at 
the  bottom  of  his  heart,  he  had  remained  a  Romantic,  he  hated  and 
despised  formal  Romanticism.  He  had  not  the  slightest  taste  for  the 
excessive,  save  that  which  can  be  described  in  a  distant  Antechrist. 
If  his  faults  are,  as  he  has  himself  noted,  a  priest’s,  he  was  able  on 
two  great  occasions  to  suffer  for  his  convictions ;  but  with  age  his  pru¬ 
dence  affects  an  ecclesiastical  unction.  His  liberalism  would  offer  no 
obstacle  to  the  advent  of  an  intelligent  tyrant  or  of  a  tyrannical  oli¬ 
garchy  presided  over  by  the  direct eur  of  the  Institut.  Writers  have 
reproached  him  with  reducing  certain  grandeurs  by  assertions  im¬ 
mediately  diminished  through  comparison  with  others  soon  called  into 
question  in  their  turn,  thus  arriving  at  a  sort  of  artistic  scepticism, 
at  an  “after  all  .  .  .  ”  more  admissible  in  an  inhabitant  of  Sirius  than 
in  a  human  being.  The  savants  complained  that  even  the  science  which 
he  had  made  his  ideal  was  not  spared  the  same  justified  scratches  with 
which  he  disqualified  Auguste  Comte  who  did  not  write  French  or 
Flaubert  who  was  ignorant  of  abstract  natures.  He  serves  it,  but  he 
feels  how  charming  it  would  be  to  betray  it.  This  master  of  objective 
criticism  will  occasionally  insinuate  the  advice  to  “solicit  facts.”  His 
devotion  to  truth  serves  at  times  as  a  mask  for  the  least  impersonal, 
the  most  frankly  artistic  pride. 

If  man  is  above  all  changeful,  no  one  offers  a  juster  idealized  image 
of  humanity  than  he,  on  the  condition  that  account  be  taken  of  the 
idealization  accomplished  by  himself  on  his  own  portrait.  In  his 
liberal  faith  he  finds  the  two  secular  instincts  of  departure  towards  a 
new  hope  and  of  repose  in  present  progress  contending  with  his  rever¬ 
ies  to  the  sound  of  the  bells  of  Is.  He  accuses  his  century  of  not 
being  sufficiently  serious  for  the  stark  truth.  This  justifies  his  ironic 
quips.  At  the  end  of  a  life  devoted  to  a  monument  of  thought,  he  is 
afraid  of  having  been  too  narrowly  right.  He  wonders  or  pretends 
to  wonder’ — whether  he  has  not  gone  astray,  whether  the  abode  of  wis¬ 
dom  is  not,  all  things  considered,  among  the  frivolous.  He  claims  his 
right  to  smile. 

He  has  however,  in  advance,  very  liberally  accorded  his  reader  the 
right  to  read  him  cum  grano  satis.  Not  to  understand  this  would  be  the 
clumsiest  blunder.  At  bottom,  no  weakness  diminishes  his  force.  If  it 
amuses  him  to  falter,  it  is,  as  he  has  said,  because  his  4  morality  is 


14,  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

proof  against  everything.”  It  is  easy  to  treat  him  as  a  “disaffected 
cathedral,”  to  recall  his  own  words :  “My  life  is  still  governed  by  a 
faith  I  no  longer  have.”  He  no  longer  has  it :  let  us  understand  that 
he  has  modified  its  form  and  its  object:  “I  have  left  the  spiritual  to 
enter  the  ideal,”  that  is  to  say,  to  occupy  a  stronger  position  in  the 
service  of  the  same  cause.  He  no  longer  believes  in  Catholicism.  He 
believes  more  firmly  than  ever  in  beauty  and  in  science.  When  pub¬ 
lishing,  in  1890,  U Avenir  de  la  Science,  written  in  1848,  he  stated  that 
these  assertions  remained  flesh  of  his  flesh.  If  the  lover  of  rational 
beauty  and  the  mystic  Celt  clash  in  the  Priere  sur  L’Acropole,  it  is 
that  a  harmony  may  be  born  of  this  conflict.  From  the  depths  of  a 
voluptuousness  there  springs  for  him  not  bitterness  but  the  promise 
of  a  more  exquisite  enjoyment.  For  he  possesses,  like  Athene,  in 
a  chosen  place,  his  inexpugnable  citadel:  “I  have  always  believed  in 
human  intelligence.”  There  is  his  veritable  faith.  He  proved  it  by 
sacrificing  the  other  faith  to  it.  When  he  staked  his  present  and 
future  life  upon  the  contradictions  between  the  Synoptics  and  the 
Fourth  Gospel,  he  took  the  side  of  human  intelligence  against  all  its 
detractors.  He  never  recanted  on  this  point.  If  he  owes  the  bril¬ 
liance  of  his  renown  to  his  moving  charm,  he  owes  its  duration  to  his 
indestructible  conviction. 

The  contrast  between  Renan  and  Taine  was,  from  the  first,  one  of 
the  commonplaces  of  criticism.  Very  far  from  denying  it,  it  would  be 
proper  rather  to'  emphasize  it.  It  is  customary  to  stress,  in  their 
works,  the  opposition  between  Renan’s  capricious  hesitations  and  the 
firm  progress  of  Taine.  It  would  be  less  trite,  but  certainly  quite  as 
true,  to  insist  upon  the  more  intimate  differences  between  the  com¬ 
placent  satisfactions  in  which  Renan  stops  short  somewhat  quickly  and 
the  unrest  of  Taine  torn  between  criticism  and  creation. 

Taine’s  influence  upon  the  youth  of  1870—1880  was  immense.  The 
works  of  Barres  and  of  Bourget  bear  eloquent  witness  to  it.  It  was 
possible  to  consider  crowning  with  roses  a  Renan  just  a  trifle  intoxi¬ 
cated  with  his  own  scepticism.  Taine’s  dignity  excluded  all  familiarity 
of  this  description.  He  was  the  philosopher.  Let  us  compare,  in  Les 
Deracines,  the  homage  rendered  to  him  and  that  with  which  Hugo  is 
honoured,  and  we  shall  appreciate  the  difference  between  the  influence 
exercised  by  a  thinker  and  the  worship  offered  a  half-legendary  hero. 

In  1870  had  appeared  the  two  volumes  De  V Intelligence  in  which 
Taine  expounded,  with  his  philosophical  ideas,  his  method  of  work. 
“Very  small  facts,”  said  he,  “well  chosen,  important,  significant,  amply 
circumstantiated  and  minutely  noted — there,  to-day,  is  the  matter 


LITERARY  INFLUENCES  IN  1871  15 

of  all  science.”  In  agreement  with  Renan  he  fixed,  as  his  century’s 
task,  the  establishment  of  a  series  of  detailed,  precise  monographs,  in¬ 
dispensable  bases  for  every  attempt  at  generalization;  but  he  saw  and 
declared  the  danger  of  taking  this  mole-like  work  as  the  end  of  science. 
He  proclaimed  that  collective  views  were  necessary,  even  when  venture¬ 
some,  and  that  the  rest  was  of  value  only  to  permit  the  attaining  of 
this  “high  belvedere.” 

As  art  critic  and  literary  critic  he  had  applied  this  method,  per¬ 
suaded  that  the  natural  history  of  minds  is  a  science  as  fertile  as 
zoology,  also  obedient  to  laws  which  it  is  not  impossible  to  discover. 
The  daily  contact  with  English  literature  of  which  he  had  made  him¬ 
self  the  historian  had  freed  his  mind  from  several  classical  and  orator¬ 
ical  prejudices,  had  accustomed  him  to  find  the  lyrical  note  elsewhere 
than  in  rhetoric,  to  conceive  other  measures  of  genius  than  refined  good 
taste  midway  between  the  extremes ;  and  he  had  remained  widely 
comprehensive  enough  sometimes  to  forget  his  own  point  of  departure 
and  the  theories  he  desired  to  verify,  in  order  to  devote  his  whole  effort 
to  faithfully  depicting  the  human  animal  he  met  on  his  road. 

The  War  of  1870,  the  Commune  and  the  triumph  of  democracy  over¬ 
whelmed  him.  The  new  order  seemed  so  uncertain!  It  occurred  to 
him  he  would  arrive  at  a  clearer  vision  himself  and  bring  a  light  to 
his  contemporaries  by  soliciting  lessons  of  the  past.  He  became  a 
historian  in  order  to  acquire  a  political  opinion  and  undertook  to  un¬ 
ravel  the  origins  of  contemporary  France.  L’Ancien  Regime  and  La 
Revolution  count  among  the  most  admirable  frescoes  in  our  literature. 
Their  documentation  is  enormous.  It  has  furnished  an  arsenal  of  ar¬ 
guments  to  anti-revolutionaries.  A  reaction  has  occurred  since  then 
and,  without  incriminating  Taine’s  honesty,  his  evidence  and  his  conclu¬ 
sions  have  been  disputed.  These  specialists’  quarrels  apart,  Les 
Origines  have  the  greatness  of  an  epic  with  a  hundred  visages.  Carlyle 
and  Michelet  alone  can  be  compared  to  him  for  intensity  and  life , 
but  they  are  very  inferior  to  him  in  the  underpinning  of  the  work, 
in  the  application  and  the  method.  If  Taine  grounds  his  edifice 
upon  a  mass  of  little  facts,  at  every  step  he  transcends  this  domain. 
He  protested  with  disdainful  pride  against  the  bias  of  which  he  has 
been  accused.  He  merely  claimed  for  the  historian  the  privileges  of 
the  naturalist.  He  aimed  at  being  towards  his  subject  as  befoie  the 
metamorphosis  of  an  insect.”  He  wished  passionately  to  understand. 
To  get  at  the  truth  of  events  he  welcomed  the  most  contradictory  wit¬ 
nesses  of  a  troubled  epoch.  To  attain  that  superior  truth  which  is  the 
explanation  of  events,  he  solicited  the  aid  of  all  those  who  have  studied 
and  revealed  the  laws  of  the  human  heart.  If,  in  his  notes,  the 


16  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

reader  meets  side  by  side  a  quotation  from  the  archives  and  an  appeal 
to  the  experience  of  Balzac,  Flaubert  or  Browning,  it  is  because,  in 
unforgettably  differentiating  Montesquieu,  Voltaire  and  Rousseau, 
he  brings  his  contribution  to  psychology.  Science  aims  at  the  general : 
in  Danton  should  be  seen  the  Barbarian,  in  Napoleon  the  Artist; 
whereafter  the  last  stage  must  be  passed  in  order  to  discover  the 
true  heroes  of  this  tragedy  which  has  lacked  no  purple,  of  this  intel¬ 
lectual  epic:  here  is  the  Classic,  here  is  the  Ideologist,  here  is  the  Jaco¬ 
bin,  here  is  the  Man.  .  .  . 

To  complain  of  this  would  be  to  mutilate  and  misunderstand  Taine. 
It  would  seem  paradoxical,  having  praised  Renan’s  strength,  to  speak 
of  Taine’s  weakness.  There  is,  however,  at  the  bottom  of  his  intel¬ 
lectual  life,  a  drama.  In  the  personal  notes  of  1862  he  assigned  him¬ 
self  this  goal:  “To  paint  man  like  an  artist  and,  at  the  same  time,  to 
reconstruct  him  like  a  dialectician.”  His  unfinished  Etienne  Mayran 
proves  he  had  renounced  the  role  of  creator,  with  a  perhaps  exagger¬ 
ated  modesty,  not  without  a  melancholy  regret.  All  his  life  he  har¬ 
boured  the  sadness  of  having  been  but  “a  carver,  an  analyst.”  1  He 
believed  he  owed  this  sacrifice  to  concern  for  his  moral  hygiene:  “One 
must  not  destroy  oneself,”  he  declared.  This  resignation  gives  an 
undertone  of  vague  pathos  to  the  vigorous  beauty  of  his  most  finished 
pages.  It  was,  perhaps,  from  an  animator  voluntarily  reduced 
to  silence,  that  was  fashioned  the  talent  of  this  great  reconstructor. 

Leconte  de  Lisle  and  Baudelaire  in  poetry.  Stendhal  and  Flaubert 
in  the  novel.  Taine  and  Renan  for  philosophy.  Such  will  be  the 
dominant  influences  after  1870,  all  differing  through  their  beliefs  and 
their  scepticisms,  all  united  in  a  single  reaction  against  Romanticism, 
in  a  single  appeal  to  objective  reality, 
i  See  his  letter  to  Maupassant,  March  2,  1882. 


CHAPTER  II 


LE  PARNASSE 

BETWEEN  1866  and  1876  appeared,  with  Lemerre’s  imprint, 
the  three  series  of  Le  Parnasse  contemporain.  These  antholo¬ 
gies  contained  poems  by  Leconte  de  Lisle,  Sully-Prudhomme, 
Villiers  de  l’lsle-Adam,  Heredia,  Coppee,  Dierx,  Verlaine,  Mallarme, 
Mendes,  Glatigny,  Jean  Lahor,  Armand  Silvestre.  There  was  no  bond 
among  these  poets  other  than  their  respect  for  their  leader  and  what 
Mendes  calls  “hatred  of  poetic  disorderliness.”  As  was  natural  in 
such  a  haphazard  group,  divergences  soon  manifested  themselves.  Al¬ 
ready  perceptible  during  the  period  of  imitation,  these  progressively 
became  more  marked  as  each  asserted  his  originality.  Baudelaire’s 
heirs — Villiers  de  l’lsle-Adam,  Verlaine  and  Mallarme— followed  the 
natural  bent  of  their  genius  and  became,  for  different  reasons,  the 
masters  of  Symbolism.  The  epithet  of  Parnassians — as  accidental  as, 
for  another  artistic  group,  that  of  Impressionists — was  to  remain  at¬ 
tached  to  such  of  these  writers  as,  without  a  common  literary  program, 
continued,  in  their  different  ways,  faithful  to  the  influence  of  Gautier, 
Banville,  Leconte  de  Lisle,  united  in  the  same  obedience  to  a  beauty  of 
formal  and  unfaltering  precision.  Due  allowance  being  made  for  a 
generalization,  summary  perhaps  but  not  absolutely  unjust,  this  wor¬ 
ship  of  form  and  objectivity  may  be  taken  as  the  characteristic  trait 
of  Le  Parnasse. 


1.  THE  MASTERS  OF  LE  PARNASSE 

In  this  accepted  sense  of  the  word  no  one  was  more  Parnassian  than 
Jose-Maria  de  Heredia.  A  Cuban  brought  up  in  France,  his  origin 
may  be  held  responsible  for  his  love  of  unrelieved  magnificence.  “Be¬ 
loved  pupil”  of  Leconte  de  Lisle,  heir  to  his  literary  ideal  but  not  to 
his  pessimism,  he  carried  the  art  of  evocation  to  its  extreme  limits. 
His  ambition  was  to  write,  in  his  turn,  a  Legende  des  Siecles  each 
episode  of  which  should  be  enclosed  within  the  rigorous  lines  of  a 
sonnet.  The  collection  of  these  highly  wrought  poems,  Les  Trophees, 
is  a  unique  success,  admirable  and  without  sequel.  The  imitation  of 
the  master  is  sometimes  too  evident.  It  is  not  by  such  pastiches  as 
La  Mort  de  Vaigle  that  Heredia’s  fame  will  survive.  Neither  is  it 


18  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

by  that  affectation  of  local  colour  in  which  he  goes  beyond  Leconte 
de  Lisle  who  himself  corrected  Hugo.  The  surest  effect  of  Romancero 
is  probably  to  lead  us  back  with  pleasure  to  the  idealized  Spain  of 
Corneille.  Heredia’s  originality  must  be  sought  elsewhere  and,  first 
of  all,  in  a  certain  fluid  purity  by  virtue  of  which  he  takes  his  place 
in  a  chain  of  really  French  poets.  Le  Naufrage,  Vendange,  or  Sur 
un  marbre  brise  recall  Andre  Chenier’s  supple  ease  and  have  served 
as  models  for  the  best  poems  of  Henri  de  Regnier. 

In  the  painting  of  landscapes  he  does  not  appear  uniformly  success¬ 
ful.  The  methods  which  permitted  him  to  render  with  so  precise  an 
intensity  the  splendidly  overwhelming  impressions  of  the  tropics  are 
less  adapted  to  the  grey,  indeterminate  reveries  evoked  by  the  soil  of 
Brittany ;  but  Heredia  again  takes  the  lead  when  it  comes  to  fixing  in 
a  sonnet  an  epoch  or,  better  still,  the  most  heroic  figure  of  an  epoch 
seen  at  the  summit  of  his  destiny.  Whether  it  be  Hannibal  or  Antonjq 
or  the  Conqueror-type,  or  again  one  of  those  Samurais  or  those 
Daimios  representative  of  a  whole  civilization,  wherever  the  picturesque 
description  of  an  impersonal  being  suffices  to  suggest  an  ensemble  of 
ideas  and  of  sentiments,  Heredia  is  without  rival. 

Thus  his  masterpieces  are,  unquestionably,  those  of  his  sonnets  where 
he  paints  an  art  object  confining,  within  its  strict  contours,  the 
representation  of  a  world.  When  he  describes  an  antique  vase,  a 
mediaeval  window,  a  wrought  blade,  a  Sicilian  or  Renaissance  medal, 
a  gilded  vellum  binding,  a  finished  enamel,  Heredia’s  verses  share  in 
their  perennity.  He  excels  in  epigraphs,  in  epigrams  and  in  sum¬ 
maries  of  a  whole  work  in  fourteen  lines,  as  seen  in  the  sonnets  inspired 
by  Ronsard  and  Du  Bellay ;  but  his  sovereign  mastery  consists  in 
transforming  the  mobile  into  immobility,  in  fixing  it  in  an  attitude 
which  he  then  paints  minutely.  It  is  not  surprising  that  his  look  trans¬ 
forms  the  sky  into  an  escutcheon.  This  fertile  impoverishment  of  the 
real  is  the  very  condition  of  his  art. 

The  single  book  which  Heredia  devoted  to  the  depiction  of  the 
entire  world  forms  the  most  perfect  contrast  with  the  abundant 
work  of  Francis  Coppee,  who  can  be  summed  up  in  a  single  sentence: 
he  was  born,  lived  and  died  a  vieux  Parisien.  His  unique  originality 
arises  from  the  exactness  with  which  his  poetry  reflects  the  emotions  of 
a  bourgeois  idler  of  the  capital.  He  himself  was  not  fully  conscious  of 
this  at  first  and  the  influence  of  celebrated  predecessors  turned  him 
from  his  natural  path.  In  his  initial  collection,  Le  Reliquaire,  he  imi¬ 
tates  Hugo  (beginning  of  Le  Justicier)  and  he  struggles  to  reproduce 
that  poet’s  antithetical  methods.  He  imitates  Leconte  de  Lisle.  That 


LE  PARNASSE  19 

is  to  say,  he  raises  himself  to  rhyme  Astracan  with  caimacan.  He 
even  imitates  Baudelaire  ( Solitude ,  La  Bouquetiere) ,  quite  as  con¬ 
ventionally  moreover,  and  his  oppositions  of  purity  and  Satanism 
( Redemption )  provoke  smiles.  Here  already,  however,  he  announces 
what  Francis  Coppee’s  poetry  will  be :  easy  emotion  excited  by  a  com¬ 
monplace  subject  (Adagio),  rather  flat  imagery  (L’Etape) ,  amorous 
commonplaces  treated  without  taste  (La  Treve).  Ritournelle  and 
Une  Sainte  already  revealed  all  of  Coppee :  prosaic  in  Parnassian  verse, 
sentimental  like  a  kind  of  poetic  Chaminade,  personally  silly,  support¬ 
able  only  in  little  Flemish  genre  pictures,  like  this : 

Car  tu  n’as  pour  amant  qu’un  bourgeois  de  Harlem, 

Et,  dans  la  serre  chaude,  ainsi  qu’en  un  harem, 

S’ exhalent  sans  parfum  tes  ennuis  de  sultane. 

(A  une  tulipe.) 

Face  to  face  with  his  first  work,  Coppee  discovered  himself.  He  was 
somewhat  alarmed  and  wished,  before  continuing,  to  say  farewell 
to  poetry.  In  Les  Intimites,  amid  reminiscences  of  Joseph  Delorme 
and  of  the  intimate  Baudelaire : 

0  les  premiers  baisers  a  travers  la  violette!  .  .  . 

Le  logis  etait  plein  d’une  odeur  de  baise 

are  found  a  few  personal  and  penetrating  verses : 

Quelque  chose  comme  une  odeur  qui  serait  blonde  .  .  . 

Le  crepuscule  est  triste  et  doux  comme  un  adieu 

and  the  touching  regrets  of  the  Parisian  of  Paris  for  whom  the  world 
ends  at  the  suburbs.  “At  bottom  I  have  remained  naive,”  he  adds 
rather  comically.  One  is  not  sure  whether  it  is  an  excuse  or  an  ag¬ 
gravating  circumstance. 

The  same  year  (1869)  saw  the  publication  of  two  works  by  Coppee. 
His  Passant  met  with  an  immense  success  on  the  stage  of  the  Odeon. 
This  story  of  a  great  love  which  starts,  evolves  and  sacrifices  itself  in 
twenty  minutes  in  an  imaginary  Italy  contained  the  exact  dose  of 
moral  sentimentality  desirable  in  a  subsidized  theatre.  It  indicated  a 
vein  which  Coppee  was  never  to  cease  exploiting  in  small  plays  of 
which  Le  Luthier  de  Cremone  is  the  type.  His  real  talent,  however, 
came  to  light  in  Poemes  modernes  among  which  must  be  instanced 
U Angelas,  the  story  of  an  old  cure  and  of  an  old  soldier  who  adopt  a 
child  and  let  it  die  for  want  of  a  mother ;  Le  Banc,  a  “Parisian  idyll” 
between  a  nursemaid  and  a  soldier;  Le  Pere,  in  which  a  drunkard  no 


20  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

longer  dares  beat  his  wife  for  fear  of  waking  their  child,  and  finally 
that  abominable  melodrama  entitled  La  Greve  des  Fourgerons. 
Coppee  had  thus  accomplished  the  miracle  of  beguiling  the  ordinary 
public  of  newspaper  novels  into  reading  rhymed  works.  Without  ap¬ 
parent  effort  this  former  pupil  of  the  haughty  Leconte  de  Lisle  had 
reached  the  limits  of  platitude. 

He  made  it  a  point  of  honour  to  maintain  them  and  published  Les 
Humbles  the  title  of  which  involved  an  adroit  equivocation.  Let  no  one 
be  misled  indeed :  Coppee  is  not,  in  the  noble  sense  of  the  word,  a  pop¬ 
ular  poet.  The  poet  who  really  loves  the  people  is  the  one  who,  know¬ 
ing  their  sufferings  and  their  misery,  bends  down  to  console  and  to 
guide  them,  like  a  brother,  towards  a  higher  ideal — that  of  which  art 
is  but  an  apostolate.  There  is  nothing  of  the  sort  in  Coppee.  Les 
Humbles  offers  a  hundred  examples  of  false  literature,  no  trace  of 
profound  sympathy.  He  takes  no  interest  in  the  pitiful  human  stupid¬ 
ity  of  the  exiled  nurse  or  of  the  “Breton  volunteer”  save  as  pretexts  for 
chromos  of  a  hateful  sentimental  silliness.  Thus  he  has  deserved  that 
the  little  Montrouge  grocer  who,  caught  between  his  wife  and  his 
mother,  who 

.  .  .  Partage  de  lit  d’une  femme  insensible 
Et  tous  les  deux  ils  ont  froid  cm  cceur,  froid  aux  pieds 

should  remain  his  most  celebrated  hero  and,  by  a  just  revenge,  his  most 
assiduous  reader. 

Even  in  the  most  successful  of  these  descriptions,  in  the  sketches  of 
the  Paris  streets,  Coppee  does  not  deserve  the  praise  of  Zola  who  con¬ 
gratulates  him  on  having  raised  “the  flag  of  Naturalism  in  poetry.” 
Zola’s  tenderness  for  works  in  which  he  found  “an  echo  of  the  con¬ 
temporary  novel”  is  explicable ;  but  we  may  be  sure  that  the  scenes  of 
Promenades  et  Interieurs  would  have  been  judged  by  him  without  the 
slightest  indulgence  had  they  not  in  his  eyes  had  the  merit  of  mark¬ 
ing  a  poetic  revolution.  For,  in  the  numberless  prose  tales  left  by 
him  Coppee  has  treated  the  same  subjects  and  their  banality  is  obvious. 
Conventional  lower-class,  sensitive  upper-class,  sentimentally  repentant 
rogues,  masters  and  men  melodramatically  reconciled  in  a  torch-light 
patriotism  behind  a  military  band — it  is  hard  to  say  whether  all  this 
is  flatter  or  more  dishonest.  At  best,  such  stories  as  Une  Idylle  pen¬ 
dant  le  siege  possess  the  testimonial  value,  as  to  the  war  and  the  Com¬ 
mune,  of  a  little  Parisian  bourgeois  who  brings  to  great  events  the 
shameless  display  of  his  incomprehension;  and  the  travel  notes,  par¬ 
ticularly  those  on  Brittany,  complete  the  demonstration  of  this  sterility. 

After  the  success  of  Les  Humbles,  Coppee  survived  himself  in  the 


LE  PARNASSE  21 

theatre  as  well  as  in  various  volumes  of  verse  where  some  rather  pretty 
amorous  triflings  ( Le  Menuet')  redeem  neither  the  various  improvisa¬ 
tions  on  current  events  which  he  believed  it  his  duty  to  publish,  nor  the 
recits  epiques  in  which  he  gleaned  the  crumbs  of  Hugo  and  Leconte  de 
Lisle,  nor  the  standardized  false  love  poems,  mechanically  constructed 
on  verbal  effects — for  example,  in  L'Exilee,  L’Echo,  Le  Lied,  and,  Trois 
Oiseaux — nor  those  countless  rough-cast  idylls  which  last  the  length 
of  a  cigarette  and  in  which  he  indefatigably  dilutes  Baudelaire’s  divine 
sonnet,  A  une  passante,  nor  that  ambitious  Olivier  which  might  be 
attributed  to  a  belated,  passionless  Musset.  Never  has  so  much  petti¬ 
ness  been  piled  up  more  painfully  and  this  Parnassian’s  supreme  title 
to  glory  may  perhaps,  in  the  last  analysis,  be  his  having  sometimes 
held  in  check  the  poetical  fame  of  M.  Paul  Deroulede. 

Still  more  abundant  than  Francis  Coppee’s  is  the  poetical  work  of 
Catulle  Mendes,  one  of  the  instigators  of  Le  Parnasse,  the  epigone  of 
Gautier  and  of  Banville  from  whom  he  inherited  an  extraordinary 
formal  flexibility.  This  virtuosity  Mendes,  for  half  a  century,  put  at 
the  service  of  the  most  incredible  absence  of  profound  thought.  Imi¬ 
tation  with  him  is  natural,  almost  unconscious.  He  paints,  one  after 
the  other,  with  the  same  superficial  conviction,  the  Greece  of  Penteleia, 
the  Spain  of  the  Serenades,  the  India  of  Pagode.  He  assimilates  with 
equal  ease  Baudelaire’s  false  Satanism  ( Le  Benitier),  Hugo’s  theatrical 
effects  ( Contes  epiques ),  Banville’s  acrobatic  feats  ( Canidie ).  His  long 
poems,  the  Swedenborgian  Hesperus  or  the  Soleil  de  Minuit,  are  further 
instances  of  his  formidable  facility  for  turning  anything  whatsoever 
into  rhyme. 

His  originality  lies  in  the  popularization  of  a  certain  artificial 
second-rate  libertine,  where  the  literature  detracts  from  the  frank 
sensuality.  The  best  pieces  of  this  sort  (particularly  Philomela, 
Intermede  and  Rondels')  recall  eighteenth-century  prints.  Those 
which  may  pass  as  impromptus  keep  a  certain  lightly  amorous  charm. 

Although  a  dozen  years  separated  their  literary  debuts,  it  is  never¬ 
theless  fitting  to  bracket  with  the  improviser  Mendes,  that  essential 
improviser  Jean  Richepin.  An  extreme  facility  for  imitation,  a 
remarkable  verbal  truculency,  a  very  precise  sense  of  the  sort  of 
bullying  the  public  will  stand — these  qualities  already  revealed  them¬ 
selves  in  the  two  volumes,  Chanson  des  Gueux  and  Caresses,  which  made 
Richepin’s  success — a  succes  de  scandale  and  of  virtuosity  also, 
but  rendered  legitimate  by  a  sincere  youthful  revolt  against  shackles 
and  conventions. 


22  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Jules  Leraaitre  has  noted  that  there  are  two  men  in  Richepin.  First 
there  is  a  Touranian  rebel  with  sympathy  for  all  outlaws — with  Villon, 
with  tramps,  with  mountebanks,,  with  the  ocean  in  which  he  fancies  he 
finds  various  images  of  unbridled  liberty.  If  he  has  sometimes  inspired 
Richepin  with  the  grotesque  pages  of  Les  Blasphemes,  where  the  author 
indulges  in  bravado  to  incite  the  gods  to  combat,  it  is  nevertheless  this 
Touranian  who  has  inspired  him  with  his  best,  freest,  most  original 
poems ;  but  the  “very  great  rhetorician”  whom  Lemaltre  already  pro¬ 
claimed  in  him  quickly  got  the  upper  hand  and  the  poet  of  La  Mer,  the 
novelist  of  Miarka,  trusting  to  his  prodigious  facility,  has  undertaken 
to  constitute  himself  the  accredited  purveyor  of  a  rich  and  numerous 
public  with  arrogant  literary  pretensions  and  mediocre  poetical  needs. 
It  is  to  be  regretted  that  Richepin  has  so  soon  and  so  completely  suc¬ 
ceeded  in  satisfying  it. 


Under  different  aspects,  the  example  of  Coppee,  Mendes  and  Riche¬ 
pin  shows  one  of  the  perils  to  which  the  Parnassians  were  exposed :  the 
mechanical  employment  of  formal  qualities  for  the  standardized  manu¬ 
facture  of  imitations  of  their  own  works.  It  was  by  subduing  their  in¬ 
spiration  to  the  laws  of  a  noble  and  lofty  thought  that  the  two  true 
Parnassian  poets,  Leon  Dierx  and  Sully  Prudhomme,  escaped  from 
this  vulgarization  of  themselves. 

When,  after  the  death  of  Verlaine,  numerous  votes  designated  Leon 
Dierx  as  prince  of  French  poets,  his  work  was  still  little  known  to  the 
crowd.  Native  of  the  He  Bourbon  (of  which  Les  Filaos  and  other 
poems  recall  the  memory),  friend  of  Leconte  de  Lisle  to  whom 
Poemes  et  Poesies  was  dedicated,  Leon  Dierx,  from  his  first  pub¬ 
lication,  captured  the  taste  of  an  elite.  Doubtless  the  Vision  d’Eve 
could  still  be  reproached  with  very  direct  memories  of  the  master.  The 
tragic  note  of  La  Prophetie  or  of  H enrich  le  Veuf  was  not  without  a 
melodramatic  touch  and  there  was  something  conventional  in  the  ex¬ 
oticism  of  Sour  e-Ha;  but  the  pessimism  of  La  Prison  or  Le  Vieux 
Solitaire,  the  proud  despair  of  In  Extremis  announced  a  successor,  a 
continuer  of  Vigny  and  of  Leconte  de  Lisle,  while  already  appeared 
Dierx’s  personal  charm — an  alternation  of  gentle,  limpid  melodies  (see 
Apres  le  Bain )  and  of  grave  meditations  where,  in  the  soft  light,  the 
visionary  watches  symbolical  beings  who  pass  bearing  all  the  unjust 
sorrows  from  which  humanity  suffers. 

This  originality  was  still  more  strongly  marked  in  Levres  closes,  a 
fine  title  nobly  justified.  This  volume  is  the  most  complete  and  the 
most  significant  of  his  works.  It  opens  with  a  Prologue  in  which  the 


LE  PARNASSE  23 

poet  reports  what  a  paradoxical  effort  he  made  to  achieve  impassibility. 

J’ai  detoume  mes  yeux  de  Vhomme  et  de  la  me. 

All  the  unrest  of  the  world  has  lived  again  in  him.  It  has  filled  his 
soul  but  it  has  not  submerged  it.  Far  from  seeking  to  establish  a 
barren  compromise  between  love  and  pride,  Dierx  has  expressed  the 
power  of  two  contrary  aspirations.  L'Odewr  sacree,  La  Nuit  de  juin 
tell  magnificently  what  contagion  of  love  emanates  from  nature  to 
trouble  the  heart.  Sometimes  even,  in  rare  moments  of  relaxation 
( Les  Rhymes ),  he  sings  the  ecstasy  of  a  beauty  free  from  bitterness; 
but  his  favourite  season  is  the  autumn;  his  chosen  spot  is  a  great  wood 
turning  yellow;  his  beloved  hour,  twilight.  Then  only  he  tastes  the 
joy  of  the  melancholy  harmony  which  inspired  the  Soir  d  octohre,  a 
masterpiece  of  calm  meditation. 

To  Les  Lewes  closes  were  added  later  Paroles  dun  vaincu  and 
Amants  which  define  and  complete  Leon  Dierx’s  teaching.  The  two 
volumes  which  comprise  his  whole  work  contain  some  of  the  poetic  medi¬ 
tations,  tender  and  virile,  eloquent  and  intimate,  which  do  most  honour 
to  contemporary  thought  and  art. 


From  Sully  Prudhomme’s  first  collection,  Stances  et  Poems,  the  pub¬ 
lic  immediately  adopted  one  piece,  Le  Vase  hrise,  which  quickly  became 
popular.  While  these  charmingly  playful,  delicately  sentimental 
stanzas  were  being  recited  in  drawing-rooms,  the  author  was  prepar¬ 
ing  a  translation  of  Lucretius  the  first  volume  of  which  he  published 
with  a  preface  revealing  his  veritable  preoccupations.  After  dis¬ 
cussing  the  graver  questions  of  psychology  and  of  scientific  method, 
after  questioning  both  outward  and  inward  experience,  he  con¬ 
cludes:  “The  spiritualists  are  certainly  justified  m  maintaining  that 

moral  phenomena  do  not  spring  from  physical  phenomena,  thoug 
subservient  to  them;  but  the  materialists  are  right  m  affirming  that 
nothing  authorizes  a  substantial  distinction  between  the  moral  and  the 
physical.  ...  For  our  part,  we  are  inclined  to  think  that  these  two 
orders  of  phenomena  are  irreducible,  one  to  the  other,  inasmuch  as 
they  depend  upon  two  distinct  moods  of  the  universal  being  We  need 
then,  he  adds,  “a  theory  of  curiosity.  We  must  incessantly  mul  ip  y 
the  results  of  the  two  experiences  by  analysing  them  more  and  more 
In  so  doing,  we  come  to  “understand  ourselves.  In  this  fashion, 
philosophy,  “instead  of  beginning  over  again  in  each  mind,  in  every 
generation,  will  be  able  to  hand  on  accepted  results  and  to  continue  rom 
century  to  century,  which  will  be  the  certain  sign  of  its  scientific 

organization.” 


24  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Thus  love  of  poetry,  belief  in  the  value  of  poetical  expression,  recon¬ 
ciled  two  poets  in  Sully  Prudhomme :  the  delicate  successor  of  the 
confidential  Musset,  whose  first  appearance  had  been  greeted  by 
public  opinion,  and  the  philosophical,  scientific  mind,  ambitious  to 
“give  some  undisputed  foundation  to  philosophy,”  to  become  the  French 
Lucretius ;  and  no  doubt  he  esteemed  the  successes  of  the  first  only  as 
they  rendered  ears  attentive  to  the  truths  which  were  to  be  announced 
by  the  second. 

For  Sully  Prudhomme  is  not  alternately  a  poet  and  a  philosopher. 
He  is  always  a  poet-philosopher.  So  that  his  work,  so  little  auto¬ 
biographical  outwardly,  retraces  the  history  of  his  mind  where  the 
intelligence,  daily  more  strengthened  in  its  ideal  of  severe  beauty, 
gradually  dominates  his  sensibility,  reducing  its  function  to  adorning 
with  a  new  garment  the  truth  bared  by  the  patient  seeker.  In  the 
first  volume,  on  the  contrary,  he  abandoned  himself  to  the  simple  pleas¬ 
ure  of  feeling,  which  inspired  him  with  rapid  modern  elegies  such  as 
La  Priere,  or  with  pretty,  delicate  notations : 

Un  voyage!  telle  est  la  vie 

Pour  ceux  qui  n’osent  que  rever  .  .  . 

Already,  however,  he  expressed  his  high  conception  of  the  poet’s 
role: 

Car  si  I’humanite  tolere  encor  nos  chants, 

C’est  que  notre  elegie  est  son  propre  poeme; 

and  this  sense  of  duty,  this  perpetual  recollection  that  noblesse  oblige, 
explains  the  weakest  poems — the  too  obvious  glorification  of  maternal 
love,  moral  apostrophes  to  La  Vertu,  the  rather  facile  symbolism  of 
UEtr anger.  He  still  sang  Vaines  tendr  esses ;  but  already  he  had  taken 
up  his  position  and,  among  the  sonnets  of  Les  Epreuves,  one  reads  a 
complete  portrait  of  Spinoza  in  fourteen  lines — a  tour  de  force  per¬ 
haps  more  to  the  honour  of  the  critic  than  to  that  of  the  poet. 

The  most  discreetly  revealing  evidence  of  this  double  inspiration  was 
offered  us  by  Sully  Prudhomme  when,  in  Le  Prisme,  he  brought 
together  poems  composed  at  different  periods.  When  the  occa¬ 
sional  verses  have  been  eliminated  from  it,  each  reader  is  free  to  pre¬ 
fer,  according  to  his  own  taste,  the  charming  society  madrigals,  like 
L’Eventail,  or  the  tenderly  delicate  reveries  ( Le  Soir ),  or  the  hymns  to 
philosophical  effort  ( Les  Chercheurs).  Before  Le  Prisme,  Sully 
Prudhomme  had  published  Justice,  not  without  a  certain  apprehension. 
In  the  preface  he  declares  that  the  events  of  1870—71  have  disturbed 
him  and  inclined  him  to  pessimism ;  and  then  “a  corner  of  azure  and 
some  white  summits  reappeared  ...  it  was  impossible  not  to  hope 


LE  PARNASSE  25 

still.”  Justice  is  the  story  of  a  seeker  who  forced  his  heart  to  remain 
silent  and  wished  to  chart  his  course  with  his  reason  alone.  In  vain  he 
seeks  justice  between  species  and  between  states,  in  the  species  and  in 
the  state.  He  finds  it  nowhere ;  but  a  voice  in  him  forbids  despair. 
He  discovers  that  this  voice  is  the  heart’s  and  decides  to  listen  to  it. 
In  his  conscience  he  finds,  steadfast,  the  idea  of  justice  bound  up  with 
the  most  intimate  essence  of  humanity,  the  progress  of  which,  slow  but 
sure,  is  shown  by  the  history  of  the  city.  This  idea  imposes  itself 
upon  the  world  as  the  true  dignity  proper  to  man,  through  the  sym¬ 
pathy  which  unites  beings  progressively  with  the  development  of  under¬ 
standing  and  science;  and  he  is  justified  in  defining  it  as  “the  ideal 
goal  of  science  closely  united  with  love.” 

It  is  idle  to  deny  that  such  a  poem  is  difficult  of  access.  Sully 
Prudhomme  knew  it,  but  he  believed  that  in  addition  to  all  sentiments, 
“nearly  all  ideas  can  be  confided  to  verse.” 

Sully  Prudhomme  was  too  loyal  to  force  his  convictions  and  to 
affirm  poetically  a  faith  which  his  philosophical  thought  had  not  dis¬ 
covered.  After  Justice,  however,  it  seemed  to  him  he  could,  without 
forfeiting  his  sincerity,  openly  express  his  hope  in  human  destiny. 
Such  is  the  subject  of  Bonheur.  Faustus,  after  his  death,  awakes  in 
another  life  where  his  earthly  friend,  Stella,  greets  him,  inviting  him  to 
a  delicious  celestial  banquet  where  she  shows  him  the  procession  of  the 
world’s  wise  men  and  of  the  artists  who  have  become  blessed  in  pure 
beauty.  The  two  lovers  unite  in  a  sublime,  harmonious  marriage;  but 
this  intoxication  has  not  lulled  thought  in  Faustus.  Unsatisfied,  he 
aspires  to  know  the  secret  of  Being.  He  questions  antique,  then 
modern  philosophy,  then  the  sciences,  finally  Pascal  who  drowns  doubt 
in  faith.  Disappointed,  he  returns  to  Stella.  However,  the  earth’s 
voices,  which  have  not  ceased  to  accompany  his  anxious  quest,  reach 
him,  like  a  goad.  Stella  refuses  to  abandon  him.  They  decide  to 
make  the  sacrifice  and  return  to  earth.  The  earth  is  empty.  Death 
has  killed  man.  Faustus  and  Stella  offer  to  remake  a  humanity — to 
begin  again  the  pathetic  story.  The  divine  will  intervenes.  An  angel 
bears  them  away  and  brings  them  in  triumph  to  the  true  paradise,  to 
the  world’s  source. 

The  same  reasons  which  have  discouraged  many  a  reader  of  La 
Justice  repelled  them  from  Le  Bonheur  also ;  and  it  is  fitting  here 
moreover  to  make  allowance  for  the  somewhat  arid  dogmatic  presenta¬ 
tion  as  well  as  for  the  astral  novel  in  the  manner  of  Flammarion. 
Sully  Prudhomme  has  not  always  avoided  the  two  stumbling-blocks  in¬ 
herent  in  his  subject.  There  is,  however,  in  Le  Bonheur,  over  and  above 
the  qualities  of  philosophical  precision  noted  in  La  Justice,  a  more 


§6  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

vibrating  inspiration  than  in  the  preceding  poem.  The  thought  mdfe 
readily  leaves  the  abstract  zone  to  incarnate  itself  in  living  portraits 
of  philosophers.  It  lets  itself  swerve  in  fine  appeals  of  human  tender¬ 
ness  and  chaste  love.  Up  t£>  the  moment  of  the  sacrifice,  the  earth 
voices  support  the  journey  of  Faustus  and  Stella  with  their  vibrant 
canticles.  Le  Bonheur  contains  the  pages  in  which  Sully  Prudhomme 
has  best  realized  his  ambition  for  a  meditative  fraternal  poetry. 

2.  FOOTHILLS  OF  LE  PARNASSE 

A  review  of  the  poetry  of  the  Parnassian  epoch  would  be  incomplete 
did  it  not  accord  a  place  to  a  certain  number  of  poets  more  or  less 
directly  attached  to  Le  Parnasse. 

Mme.  Ackermann  made  her  debut  with  a  volume  of  Contes  in  which 
she  affected  a  very  disagreeably  conceited  tone  and  transformed 
legendary  narrative  into  mediocre  imitative  gauloiseries.  Nothing  in 
them  made  it  possible  to  foresee  future  Poesies  philo sophiques,  full  of 
bitter  revolt,  where  vigour  and  despairing  eloquence  often  evoke  the 
memory  of  the  glorious  Leopardi. 

Companion  of  the  first  Parnassians,  dying  too  young  to  succeed  in 
freeing  himself  from  the  imitation  of  Banville,  Albert  Glatigny  has 
left  a  legend  rather  than  a  body  of  work.  We  should  doubtless  de¬ 
plore  that  the  same  good  fortune  did  not  befall  Armand  Silvestre 
whose  first  poems  permitted  some  illusions  soon  dissipated  by  a  hun¬ 
dred  thick  volumes  of  contes  grassouillets,  histoires  inconvenantes, 
contes  an  gros  sel,  monotonously  distressing. 

Under  the  pseudonym  of  Jean  Lahor,  Henry  Cazalis,  nurtured  on 
science  and  Oriental  thought,  has,  in  majestic  verse,  celebrated  the  uni¬ 
versal  Illusion  and  the  glory  of  Annihilation.  Unlike  this  disdainful 
poet,  Leon  Cladel,  author  of  Va-Nu-Pieds,  sang  of  beggars  with  an 
exuberance  which  the  Baudelairean  discipline  had  not  always  tempered. 

Among  the  survivors  of  the  preceding  epoch — those  “ plastiques”  who 
had  formed  the  link  between  the  Romantics  and  the  Parnassians — may 
be  retained  Josephine  Soulary,  master-sonneteer  to  whom  the  antholo¬ 
gies  have  remained  hospitable. 

Jean  Aicard  is  the  author  of  numerous  poems,  shadowless  as  the 
Provencal  sky,  in  the  clarity  of  which  certain  critics  have  seen  the 
tradition  of  the  Greek  epigram  while  others  have  found  but  a  dull  fa¬ 
cility.  His  Pere  Lebonnard  (a  play  in  verse  which  would  have  made 
Eugene  Manuel  jealous)  and  his  Jesus  are  favourites  with  families  for 
their  excellent  lessons  of  theoretical  and  practical  morality. 

Andre  Theuriet  is  principally  known  for  his  prose  stories.  His 
verses  have  the  same  scent  of  woodland  nature  and  of  intimacy  with 


LE  PARNASSE  27 

rustic  life.  Certain  of  Paul  Arene’s  plays  have  also  survived — cicada 
songs  which  keep  a  little  of  the  Parisian  ease  and  of  the  Prove^al 
suppleness,  the  mixture  making  the  charm  of  Les  Contes. 

Maurice  Bouchor  has,  with  a  fine  personal  abnegation,  devoted  himself 
to  a  noble  task  of  popular  education.  He  has  undertaken  to  reveal  the 
great  works  of  the  Middle  Ages  and  of  Shakespeare  to  the  masses  by 
means  of  ingenious  adaptations.  He  has  never  separated  thought 
from  immediate  action.  His  friend,  Gabriel  Vicaire,  the  poet  of  La 
Bresse,  has  sought  his  inspiration  in  our  folklore  and  renewed  the  art 
of  the  old  fableurs  with  an  agreeable  good  humour,  and  even  parodic 
gifts  which  found  their  proper  employment  in  Les  Deliquescences 
d’ Adore  Floupette. 

Maurice  Rollinat’s  exasperated  Baudelairianism  marks  one  of  the 
limits  of  Le  Parnasse.  All  that  is  artificial  in  literary  Satanism  is 
disclosed  in  Les  Nemoses;  but  this  furious  pessimism,  monotonous  and 
puerile,  is  as  sure  an  indication  of  poetic  decadence  as,  at  the  other 
end  of  the  keyboard,  are  Emile  Bergerat’s  clownings  where  Banville’s 
music  dies  in  a  fit  of  hiccups. 

We  cannot  end  this  review  without  a  few  words  concerning  the 
poetic  drama  which,  during  the  period  in  question,  reached  neither  the 
grandeur  of  classical  tragedy  nor  the  brilliance  of  Romantic  drama. 
One  notes  successively  timely  successes  like  Henri  de  Bornier’s  La  Fille 
de  Roland,  pseudo-historical  dramas  like  Coppees  Les  Jacobites  and 
Pour  La  Couronne,  fantasies  of  a  flamboyant  Romanticism  like  Ban¬ 
ville’s  Gringoire  and  Le  Baiser.  In  every  style,  from  antique  drama 
to  operatic  libretto,  Mendes  displayed  his  skill  of  improvisation  and 
La  Reine  Fiammette  is  probably  the  most  representative  of  his  works. 
Jean  Richepin  served  the  public  taste  in  plays  the  most  cele¬ 
brated  of  which  were  Le  Flibustier  and  Le  Chemineau,  exercises  of  a 
clever  rhetoric  which  deftly  blends  the  appearance  of  rebellion 
with  obedience  to  prejudices.  We  shall  see  later  how,  to  their  great 
surprise,  Edmond  Rostand  became  the  inheritor  of  the  Parnassians. 


CHAPTER  III 


REALISM 

1.  REALISM  AND  NATURALISM 

THE  Parnassian  movement  did  not  and  could  not  mark  a  com¬ 
plete  rupture  with  Romanticism.  It  only  avoided  certain 
not  always  displeasing  exuberances.  Whatever  may  have 
been  the  exaggeration  of  the  Romantic  writers,  it  must  be  recognized 
they  renewed  poetic  sensibility  so  profoundly  that  no  later  poet  has 
been  able  to  free  himself  completely,  and  throughout  his  whole  work, 
from  their  influence.  In  prose  alone  the  anti-Romantic  reaction  was 
able  to  attain  its  full  development.  Nothing  was  better  suited  to  this 
purpose  than  that  sovereignly  plastic  form,  the  novel. 

Balzac’s  novels  had  been  realistic  in  one  sense  only.  He  had  piled 
up  in  them  all  the  details  supplied  by  his  observation.  He  had  at 
times  been  very  scrupulous  in  his  reliance  upon  documents.  On  the 
other  hand,  this  visionary  had  delighted  in  “idealizing  inversely, 
in  their  ugliness  or  their  stupidity,”  the  magnified  heroes  of  exceptional 
dramas.  Flaubert  himself  had  not  been  a  whole-souled  realist.  In 
Salammbo  the  balance  was  sometimes  destroyed  in  favour  of  lyri¬ 
cism.  In  his  handling  of  contemporary  subjects,  there  manifested 
itself  a  rebellious  bitterness  which  occasionally  transformed  the  novel 
into  a  tract.  The  Naturalists  claim  to  replace  this  duality  of  obser¬ 
vation  and  of  imagination  with  a  unity:  the  picture  of  “true  life.” 
The  capital  affirmation  of  the  new  school  is  thus  formulated  by  the 
Goncourts :  “The  novel  of  to-day  is  made  with  documents  nar¬ 
rated  or  copied  from  nature,  just  as  history  is  made  with  written 
documents.  Flistorians  are  narrators  of  the  past,  novelists  narrators 
of  the  present”  ( Journal ,  Oct.  24,  1864). 

2.  THE  NATURALISTIC  NOVEL:  THE  GONCOURTS 

Consistent  with  their  principles,  the  Goncourts  are  at  once  historians 
and  novelists ;  but  in  their  historical  works,  as  well  as  in  their  novels 
and  even  in  their  life,  they  were  above  all  writers  in  the  most  noble 
meaning  of  the  word,  perfect  “men  of  letters.” 

If  grammatical  laws  permitted  it,  one  would  have  to  speak  of  the 

28 


REALISM 


29 


Goncourts  in  the  singular,  so  completely  is  the  duality  of  their  per¬ 
sonalities  blended  in  the  unity  of  the  writer.  Although  Jules,  the 
younger,  died  in  1870 — died  as  a  soldier  of  liter ature^ — and  his  brother, 
Edmond,  survived  him  twenty-six  years,  they  remain  inseparable,  all 
their  chief  works  having  been  finished  or  conceived  in  this  fraternal 
union.  The  elder  has  given  ( Journal ,  Dec.  27,  1895)  some  details  con¬ 
cerning  their  collaboration.  Jules  was  “a  gay,  spirited,  expansive 
nature,  a  more  trained  stylist,  enamoured  of  style.”  Edmond  was  “a 
melancholy,  thoughtful,:  concentrated  nature,  having,  above  all,  worked 
at  the  architecture  of  the  books.  My  brother,”  he  adds,  “had  more 
especially  taken  charge  of  the  style,  and  I  of  the  creation  of  the  work” ; 
but  that  was  the  starting  point.  Their  aim  was  the  quest  “of  a  single 
style,  very  personal,  very  Goncourt.”  Nobody  would  deny  their  hav¬ 
ing  fashioned  that  original  instrument,  Vecriture  artiste,  as  it  has  been 
called. 

To  translate  what  they  saw,  felt  or  thought  into  a  new  form  was  not 
only  the  aim  of  their  art,  it  was  the  very  aim  of  their  life.  Doubtless, 
from  a  certain  angle,  this  ambition  will  always  give  rise  to  smiles, 
and  the  legend  of  Jules  de  Goncourt,  the  martyr,  has  provoked  shrugs. 
It  is  recalled  that  the  Journal  was  to  appear  only  twenty  years  after 
the  death  of  the  surviving  brother,  and  the  fact  is  stressed  that  “the 
Widow,”  unable  to  resist  the  desire  to  read  that  intimate  record  in 
print,  delivered  to  the  public  all  he  dared  reveal  of  it  in  his  life¬ 
time.  However,  such  arguments  fall  when  it  has  been  understood  that 
this  Journal  was  the  very  life  of  a  Goncourt — not  at  all  the  confidential 
note-book  in  which  he  related  for  himself  the  gossip  of  contemporaries, 
his  own  impressions,  his  pointed  prophecies,  his  revolts,  his  judgments, 
but  a  real  book  in  which  he  tried  to  create  a  new  form,  to  photograph 
reality  with  the  maximum  of  precision  possible.  We  are  informed  that 
these  souvenirs  are  really  literature  in  the  preface  where  Edmond  de 
Goncourt  demands  the  reader’s  indulgence  for  the  first  years  “when  we 
were  still  rather  unskilled  in  the  direct  notation  of  facts.  The  prob¬ 
lem  is  thus  frankly  stated.  There  is  no  question  of  impartiality: 
“We  make  no  secret  of  our  having  been  impassioned  creatures,  nervous, 
unhealthily  impressionable  and  consequently  sometimes  unjust.’’  What 
is  essential  is  perhaps  less  the  thing  seen  than  the  way  in  which  it  is 
rendered:  “We  have  always  preferred  the  phrase  and  expression 
which  least  blunted  and  academized  the  keenness  of  our  sensations,  the 

pride  of  our  ideas.”  >  it,  .  . 

The  Journal  is  the  Goncourts’  masterpiece.  To  add  that  it  is  their 

best  novel  is  not  an  epigram  if  we  accept  their  own  definition :  “One 
of  the  special  characteristics  of  our  novels  will  prove  to  be  the  fact  that 


30  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

they  are  the  most  historical  of  this  epoch — novels  which  will  furnish  the 
greatest  number  of  exact  truths  concerning  the  moral  history  of  this 
century”  ( Journal ,  Jan.,  1861).  The  Journal  shows  their  entire  self¬ 
absorption  in  their  labour,  the  “spiritual  immersion  in  their  work,” 
which  made  them  forgo  life,  the  better  to  steep  themselves  in  their 
Histoire  de  la  Societe  pendant  la  Revolution  (end  of  Feb.,  1854?) .  It 
brings  precious  evidence  as  to  their  designs :  “The  novels  of  my 
brother  and  myself  have  sought,  above  all,  to  kill  adventure  in  the 
novel”  (Sept.  7,  1895)  ;  as  to  their  methods  also:  “Put  into  a  novel 
a  chapter  on  the  feminine  eye  and  glance,”  they  write  March  26,  1855, 
“a  chapter  composed  of  long  and  serious  observations.”  This  note 
shows  plainly  to  what  extent  realism  thus  understood  is  external,  artifi¬ 
cial  and  arbitrary — a  realism  which,  in  spite  of  so  many  theoretical 
manifestations,  is  in  no  way  their  true  title  to  fame.  Where  they  are 
great  is  through  this  conquest  all  the  successive  steps  of  which  the 
Journal  makes  it  possible  to  follow,  through  their  elaboration  of  a 
feverish,  nervous,  fluttering  style,  hostile  to  oratorical  development,  the 
flexible  measure  of  which  breaks  down  traditional  syntax  and  forecasts 
the  impressionistic  refinements.  They  used  this  instrument  to  serve 
an  almost  sickly  subtlety  and  an  ever-alert  curiosity  which  authorized 
Edmond  de  Goncourt  to  speak  of  himself  as  of  “a  man  seated  upon 
forty  volumes,  a  little  in  advance  of  all  that  had  been  done  or  written 
before  him”  ( Journal ,  Jan.  26,  1893). 

Historians,  the  Goncourts  remained  artists.  In  their  favourite 
province,  the  French  eighteenth  century,  they  strove  above  all  to  re¬ 
vive  picturesque  figures  of  women  (the  abstract  heroine  of'  the  most  im¬ 
personal  of  these  works  is  still  called  “the  woman”)  in  a  setting  evoked 
about  them  by  literature  and  art — brilliant  resurrections  in  which 
nevertheless  we  remark  that  indifference  to  music  which  is  one  of  the 
negative  characteristics  of  their  form  and  of  their  thought.  As  for 
painting,  they  loved  this  passionately  under  all  its  aspects.  Manette 
Salomon  is  an  eloquent  testimony  to  it,  as  are  also  their  biography  of 
Gavarni  and  those  studies  on  Outamaro  and  Hokusai  through  which 
Edmond  de  Goncourt  rendered  the  genius  of  the  masters  of  the  Japa¬ 
nese  print  popular  in  France. 

It  was  in  the  novel,  however,  that  the  Goncourts  flattered  themselves 
on  having  really  been  revolutionaries.  In  1865,  in  the  preface  to  Ger- 
minie  Lacerteux,  they  declared:  “The  public  loves  false  novels.  This 
novel  is  a  true  one.  It  loves  the  books  which  pretend  to  go  into  society. 
This  book  comes  from  the  street.  Let  it  no  longer  expect  the  decollete 
photography  of  pleasure.  The  study  which  follows  is  the  clinic  of 
love.”  These  few  aggressive  sentences  sum  up  so  well  the  whole  natu- 


REALISM  31 

rahstic  theory  that  the  Goncourts  themselves  could  add  nothing  but 
commentaries.  One  must  paint  real  life.  In  fact,  “now  that  the  novel 
has  assumed  the  studies  and  the  duties  of  science,  it  can  claim  their 
liberty  and  frankness”  (Preface  to  Germinie  Lacerteux).  The  novelist 
is  to  be  an  observer  working  from  life.  Renee  Mauperin  will  have  a 
model.  An  aunt  of  the  Goncourts  will  serve  as  the  original  for  Mme. 
Gervaisais.  The  reader  will  find  the  notes  of  the  Journal  in  the  novels 
and  Masson,  in  Charles  Demailly,  will  repeat  Theophile  Gautier’s  say¬ 
ings.  War  to  the  knife  against  exceptional  heroes !  The  Goncourts, 
despite  their  aristocratic  tendencies,  will  paint  the  people.  “Living  in 
the  nineteenth  century,  in  an  age  of  universal  suffrage,  of  democracy, 
of  liberalism,  we  have  asked  ourselves  whether  what  are  called  the  lower 
classes  had  no  right  to  the  novel”  (Preface,  Germinie  Lacerteux) .  The 
claim  is  justified;  but  did  not  the  Goncourts  orientate  romance  towards 
another  convention?  They  speak  of  a  “clinic  of  love,”  they  see  in  the 
novel  a  contemporary  moral  “history.”  Such  analogies  have  their 
danger.  It  is  hard  for  the  historian  to  avoid  judgments,  science  con¬ 
clusions,  at  least  provisionally.  The  novelist  begins  to  generalize  his 
characters  before  he  knows  it:  Charles  Demailly  was  first  called  Les 
Hommes  des  Lettres.  In  1875,  rereading  Renee  Mauperin,  Edmond  de 
Goncourt  asked  himself  whether  its  title  should  not  have  been  La  Jeune 
Bourgeoisie.  In  fact  all  novels  present  themselves  as  the  painting 
of  a  certain  milieu.  Is  it  quite  loyal  to  “warn  the  reader  that  the 
usual  fictional  plot  is  but  secondary  in  this  work”  (Preface  to 
Renee  Mauperin),  if  the  traditional  plot  has  disappeared  only  to  leave 
the  field  open  to  a  somewhat  specious  scientific  purpose?  From  the 
first  profession  of  Naturalistic  faith,  it  is  understood  why  the  Gon¬ 
courts’  novels  were  to  be  saved  by  their  style,  Zola’s  by  visionary  in¬ 
tensity,  and  why  those  of  their  imitators  were  to  appear  still-born. 

What  remains  of  the  Goncourts’  novels?  It  is  difficult  to  pretend  to 
make  a  choice  where  personal  preferences  play  so  insidious  a  part.  It 
may  nevertheless  be  affirmed  that  posterity  has  not  retained  the  spe¬ 
cifically  Naturalistic  novels  in  which  Edmond  de  Goncourt  rigorously 
applied  his  principles,  any  more  than  it  has  retained  their  attempts  at 
realistic  drama.  Charles  Demailly,  the  history  of  a  man  of  letters 
driven  mad  by  journalistic  corsairs  and  a  commonplace  woman,  has 
kept  but  a  documentary  value.  The  long  tirades  in  which  the  pre¬ 
ponderant  influence  of  Jules  de  Goncourt  is  perhaps  manifested  stifle 
the  action.  Sceur  Philomene,  a  picture  of  hospital  life  which  the  Gon¬ 
courts  studied  devoutly  in  order  to  “paint  on  the  quick,”  repels  a  little 
by  the  same  monotony  which  weighs  in  Germinie  Lacerteux,  a  hysterical, 
drunken  servant.  In  these  two  books  the  Goncourts  arrived,  through 


32  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

obedience  to  their  principles,  at  this  paradoxical  triumph,  an  anti- 
Goncourtian  atmosphere.  Renee  Mauperm  is  the  most  popular  of 
their  novels.  This  success  is  explained  by  the  attraction  of  a  dramatic 
plot  and  a  touching  heroine.  The  study  of  the  mystic  soul  of  Madame 
Gervaisais  gave  the  Goncourts  an  opportunity  to  display  all  the  subtle 
qualities  of  their  style  and  their  delicacy  in  psychological  investiga¬ 
tion.  In  spite  of  their  rather  heavy  insistence  upon  the  pathological 
side  of  the  character,  to  the  detriment  of  its  humanity,  this  is  one  of 
their  greatest  successes. 

A  place  by  itself  must,  however,  be  given  the  novel  in  which  all  their 
diverse  tendencies  blend  most  harmoniously,  Manette  Salomon.  This 
is,  first  of  all,  a  complete  and  powerful  evocation  of  the  world  of 
painters.  Every  character  is  alive  in  it,  from  Garnotelle,  Prix  de 
Rome  and  official  painter,  Crescent,  sturdy  landscape-artist,  Chas- 
sagnol,  sterile  theorist,  Anatole,  fun-loving  failure,  to  the  protagonists, 
Coriolis,  an  artist  of  talent  who  lets  himself  be  decapitated,  annihilated 
in  vapidness,  by  the  redoubtable  charm  of  his  model,  Manette  Salomon, 
a  complex  Jewess  who,  after  a  period  of  mysterious  worship  of  her  own 
beauty,  suddenly  reveals  an  implacable  thirst  for  money  and  for  middle- 
class  respectability.  Now,  on  every  page,  the  Goncourts  enlarge  the 
pattern  of  this  poignant  narrative  and,  in  coloured  phrases,  bring 
into  conflict  all  the  artistic  ideals  which,  for  a  century,  have  given 
French  painting  its  ceaselessly  renewed  fertility.  Here  almost  nothing 
has  aged.  Certain  pages  are,  on  the  contrary,  strikingly  up  to  date. 
In  Manette  Salomon,  as  much  as  in  their  Journal,  the  Goncourts  have 
made  public  confession.  It  is  through  the  books  in  which  they  have 
thus  gone  to  their  own  depths  that  they  will  always  win  those  readers 
for  whom  the  personality  of  the  writer  is  of  more  importance  than  at¬ 
tachment  to  system. 

3.  ALPHONSE  DAUDET 

If  one  considered  only  the  theories,  the  new  views  brought  by  a 
writer  concerning  his  art,  Alphonse  Daudet  would  be  simply  the  faith¬ 
ful  disciple  of  the  Goncourts.  He  borrowed  from  them  their  concep¬ 
tion  of  the  novel  as  a  narrative  laboriously  prepared  by  “notes  from 
life.”  Now,  here  comes  into  play  the  irony  of  destiny.  That  popular¬ 
ity  which  the  Goncourts  secretly  desired  in  vain,  without  daring  to  court 
it  by  infidelity  to  their  principles,  Daudet  conquered  easily.  The 
reason  is  that  no  Naturalist  has  left  throughout  his  work  the  picture  of 
a  more  affable  personality,  one  more  deeply  moved  by  the  adventures 
meant  to  move  his  readers. 

It  has  repeatedly  been  said  that  Daudet  was  the  French  Dickens.  It 


REALISM  33 

is  true  he  often  evokes  that  writer’s  memory.  Le  Petit  Chose  is 
his  David  Copperfield  and  Tartarin  his  Pickwick,  two  examples  which 
establish  their  points  of  resemblance.  Having  achieved  success  by  a 
painful  effort,  both  novelists  kept  a  sympathetic  taste  for  the  humble 
world  from  which  they  sprang ;  but  both  sharpened,  through  pop¬ 
ular  contact,  their  qualities  as  humorists.  Comparison  of  their  books 
also  renders  the  reader  more  sensible  of  their  differences.  Daudet  has 
not  the  exuberance,  the  breadth,  the  talent  for  painting  the  seeth¬ 
ing  crowd  through  which  Dickens  proves  himself  the  worthy  succes¬ 
sor  of  Fielding.  He  possesses,  on  the  other  hand,  a  more  delicate 
tenderness,  a  certain  natural  aristocracy,  a  Latin  tradition  which  re¬ 
fines  his  humour  into  wit.  He  had  begun  with  a  volume  of  poems,  Les 
Amoureuses,  in  which  his  sentimentality  is  conspicuous  and  which,  for 
the  analyst,  is  as  prophetic  as  Maupassant’s  first  robust,  shallow  verses. 
His  initial  novel,  Le  Petit  Chose,  was  an  autobiography,  moving  though 
with  mischievous  touches,  in  which  must  be  sought  not  the  relief  of 
Michelet’s  or  Valles’  memories  but  the  ease  of  a  sympathetic  story¬ 
teller.  From  his  difficult  beginnings  Daudet  was  always  to  keep  a 
compassion  for  unhappy  children  (he  returned  to  this  theme  in  Jack), 
for  the  needy  population  of  the  Parisian  faubourgs  ( Fromont  jeune 
et  Risler  aine),  for  the  strays  and  the  failures,  like  that  Delobelle  of 
whom  he  has  made  the  very  type  of  the  cabot — in  short,  for  all  the 
characters  whom  the  novelist  can,  like  a  big  tender-hearted  brother, 
illumine  with  an  affectionate  humour.  With  the  Lettres  de  mon  moulin 
Daudet  inaugurated  the  series  of  books  which  he  devoted  to  Provence 
and  which  are  the  most  enduring  part  of  his  work.  Descriptions  of 
landscapes,  evocations  of  Felibres  and  of  Mistral,  legends  and  ballads 
in  prose,  artless  stories  for  little  children — in  all  these  forms  Daudet 
showed  the  same  supple  grace.  The  story-teller  is  the  more  persuasive 
in  that  he  himself  takes  so  passionate  an  interest  in  his  stories.  Daudet 
loved  his  native  province  profoundly.  He  knew  and  described  it  in 
all  its  aspects.  The  themes  he  announced  with  juvenile  freshness  in 
the  Lettres  he  later  developed  in  powerful  works.  His  Arlesienne 
(inseparable  from  Bizet’s  ardent  musical  atmosphere)  has  held  its  place 
in  the  theatrical  repertory.  It  deserved  to  do  so  through  its  faithful 
depiction  of  a  fierce  southern  passion  in  which  poetry  brightens  dra¬ 
matic  anguish  and  in  which  mutters  a  dull  echo  of  antique  fatality. 
The  other  side  of  the  Provenfal  character — the  mirages  of  an  imagina¬ 
tion  prompt  to  treat  its  dreams  as  realities — Daudet  incarnated  in  a 
symbolic  hero,  the  immortal  Tartarin.  It  would  be  idle  to  pretend  to 
analyse  that  trilogy  ( Tartarin  de  Tar  as  con,  Tartarin  sur  les  Alpes, 
Port-Tar  as  con)  in  which  the  comic  exaggeration,  all  on  the  outside, 


34  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

should  not  cause  the  fineness  of  observation  to  be  lost  sight  of,  in  which 
good  nature  recovers  the  epic  tone  of  the  Papers  of  the  Pickwick  Club. 
In  Numa  Roumestan,  the  Nimois  and  the  former  Secretary  of  the  Due 
de  Morny  unite  to  represent  the  ravages  of  the  local  politics  in  a 
Proven9al  brain,  in  a  local  family.  Constructed  exclusively  on  the 
antithesis  of  external  success  and  of  intimate  ruin,  Numa,  if  not 
Daudet’s  masterpiece,  remains  perhaps  his  most  characteristic  work. 

He  kept  his  homesickness  for  his  beloved  Provence  to  the  end  and 
always  considered  himself  an  exile  in  Paris.  Yet  he  devoted  several 
novels  to  describing  the  life  of  the  capital.  These  are  not,  in  general, 
his  most  successful  works.  His  faults  are  more  clearly  apparent  in 
them — want  of  composition  in  the  narrative,  of  depth  in  the  characters, 
of  refinement  in  the  plots — above  all,  abuse  of  the  pretended  “docu¬ 
ment,”  of  the  note-book  emptied  into  the  novel,  of  the  juxtaposition  of 
the  little  unrelated  touches,  of  the  methods  of  artistic  writing  em¬ 
ployed  without  deep  necessity.  The  agreeable  unconstraint  which 
served  him  so  well  in  the  Lettres  de  mon  moulin  or  the  Contes  du  Lundi 
ends  in  frittering.  His  sincere  pity  turns  into  affectation,  into  a 
quavering  sentimentality,  into  the  parody  of  himself.  Fromont,  Le 
'Nabob,  Les  Rois  en  exil,  hasty  frescoes,  flake  very  quickly.  In  LTm- 
mortel,  a  satire  on  academic  manners  and  customs,  the  humorist  of 
Tartarin  ambitiously  raises  the  tone  and  spoils  an  excellent  comic  sub¬ 
ject  by  a  black  melodrama.  Of  the  Parisian  series  two  books  only 
stand  forth  without  question:  L’ Evangelist  e,  an  intense,  sober 
psychological  study  and  Sapho,  a  moving  picture  of  a  modern  love 
in  which,  through  the  pettiness  of  a  contemporary  life,  passes  the 
breath  of  the  eternally  tragic ;  but,  even  in  his  second-rate  books, 
Daudet,  in  whom  a  cruel  malady  still  further  over-excited  the  impres¬ 
sionistic  talent,  kept  that  charm  of  tender  or  mocking  sensibility  which 
had  assured  the  success  of  his  first  stories. 

4.  EMILE  ZOLA 

When,  in  1880,  appeared  the  Soirees  de  Medan,  a  collection  of  six 
stories  by  Zola,  Maupassant,  Huysmans,  Paul  Alexis,  Ceard  and  Hen- 
nique,  Zola  was  already  considered  the  chief  of  the  group  and  the  ex¬ 
ponent  of  the  Naturalistic  School.  As  early  as  1868,  his  Therese 
Raquin  had  aroused  protests  against  the  “putrid  literature”  he  offered 
the  public.  In  a  preface  to  the  second  edition,  he  had  therefore  been 
compelled  to  explain  his  aim:  “In  Therese  Raquin,”  he  wrote,  “I 
wished  to  study  temperaments,  not  characters.  The  loves  of  my  two 
heroes  are  simply  the  satisfaction  of  a  desire.  The  murder  they  com¬ 
mit  is  a  consequence  of  their  adultery,  a  consequence  they  accept  as 


REALISM  35 

wolves  regard  the  slaughter  of  sheep.  Finally,  what  I  have  been  obliged 
to  call  their  remorse  consisted  in  a  simple  organic  disturbance,  a  re¬ 
volt  of  the  nervous  system  strained  to  breaking-point.”  It  would  be 
difficult  to  analyse  this  crude  work  more  faithfully.  What  design  had 
Zola  in  writing  it?  He  himself  replies:  “My  aim  was  above  all  a 
scientific  one  ...  I  have  shown  the  profound  disturbance  of  a  full- 
blooded  nature  in  contact  with  a  nervous  nature  ...  I  have  simply 
done  on  two  living  bodies  the  analytical  work  surgeons  do  on  corpses.” 

Persuaded  he  was  obeying  a  purely  scientific  preoccupation,  was 
annexing  the  novel  to  natural  history  and  to  medicine,  Zola  was  aston¬ 
ished,  he  relates,  by  the  unanimity  of  the  critics  in  repeating:  “The 
author  of  the  Therese  Raquin  is  a  wretched  victim  of  hysteria  who  de¬ 
lights  in  the  display  of  indecency.”  One  can,  without  questioning  his 
good  faith,  understand  the  vanity  of  his  surprise  and  of  his  re¬ 
bellion.  From  the  publication  of  his  first  important  book  appeared 
that  misunderstanding  which  was  to  arouse,  during  his  literary  career, 
so  many  useless  tempests.  The  work  of  art,  when  all  is  said,  remains 
irreducible  to  any  scientific  law,  however  closely  it  may  approach 
it.  The  work  of  art  is  a  choice.  The  writer  always  takes  sides. 
Zola  himself  says :  “I  have  had  but  one  desire :  given  a  vigorous  man 
and  an  unsatisfied  woman,  to  seek  the  animal  in  them,  to  see  noth¬ 
ing  but  the  animal  even  .  .  .” 

Incapable  of  denying  choice,  Zola  claimed  to  explain  it  by  an  analogy 
with  science:  “The  novelist,”  he  says  in  Le  Roman  experimental, 
“is  composed  of  an  observer  and  of  an  experimenter.  The  observer 
in  him  gives  the  facts  such  as  he  has  observed  them,  determines  the 
starting-point,  establishes  the  solid  ground  on  which  the  characters  will 
walk  and  the  phenomena  develop.  Then  the  experimenter  appears 
and  institutes  experience,  I  mean  to  say  makes  the  characters  move  in 
a  particular  story,  in  order  to  show  therein  that  the  succession  of  the 
facts  will  be  such  as  the  determinism  of  the  studied  phenomena  re¬ 
quires.”  His  adversaries  chose  their  ground  badly  when  they  accused 
Zola  of  obscenity.  They  procured  him  an  easy  success  by  permitting 
him  to  affirm  the  chastity  of  his  anatomical  studies  and  their  neces¬ 
sity  in  “a  century  of  science  and  of  democracy.”  The  true,  the  only 
objection  to  be  brought  against  him — but  a  capital  one,  destroying  the 
structure  of  his  system — is  that  his  “experimenter”  is  nothing  but  a 
creator,  that  Therese  Raqum  is  just  as  arbitrary  as  Adolphe  or 
Ohermann. 

From  this  point  of  view  it  has  been  possible  to  treat  his  work  dis¬ 
dainfully  as  “pseudo-science.”  Zola,  a  feverish  imagination,  a  South¬ 
erner  (his  Italian  origin  counts  in  the  formation  of  his  mind),  was  in- 


36  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

capable  of  the  prudent,  objective  patience  of  the  surgeon.  He  himself 
was  not  blind  to  this  contradiction.  He  has  endowed  the  novelist 
Sandoz,  one  of  the  characters  in  L’CEwvre,  with  several  traits  of  his 
own  personality.  Sandoz,  too,  aspires  to  paint  “ordinary  human 
creatures  evolving  under  the  influence  of  their  environments,”  and 
would  have  liked  criticism  to  quarrel  with  his  audacities,  not  with  the 
idiotic  indecencies  attributed  to  him.”  Zola,  nevertheless,  pointed 
out  his  weakness  with  perspicacity:  “He  [Sandoz]  also  lamented  hav¬ 
ing  been  born  under  the  conjunction  of  Hugo  and  Balzac.”  Listen  to 
this  declaration  of  Sandoz’s :  “Yes,  our  generation  is  steeped  to  its 
very  core  in  Romanticism,  and  in  vain  do  we  cleanse  ourselves  by  tak¬ 
ing  baths  of  violent  reality:  the  stain  persists.”  Here  Zola  renders 
justice  to  the  Romantic  he  never  ceased  to  be. 

This  Romantic,  eager  for  vast  constructions,  dictated,  at  least  as 
much  as  the  pretended  scientific  practitioner,  the  plan  of  the  Rougon- 
Macquart,  a  natural  and  social  history  of  a  family  under  the  Second 
Empire.  It  is  Zola’s  monumental  work,  the  most  audacious  Natural¬ 
istic  enterprise.  Zola  defined  its  import  in  a  brief  preface  which  is  the 
most  significant  of  his  numerous  literary  manifestations.  “I  want  to 
explain  how  a  family,  a  small  group  of  beings,  behaves  in  a  certain 
circle  of  society,  expanding  to  give  birth  to  ten  or  twenty  individuals 
who,  at  first  sight,  appear  profoundly  dissimilar  but  whom  analysis 
shows  to  be  intimately  connected  with  one  another.  Heredity  has  its 
laws,  like  gravity.”  The  series  of  the  Rougon-Macquart,  in  which  the 
novels  are  but  the  development  of  the  genealogical  tree  established  by 
the  author,  owes  all  its  coherence  to  this  law  of  heredity :  “Physiolog¬ 
ically  they  are  the  slow  succession  of  the  nervous  and  corpuscular  acci¬ 
dents  declaring  themselves  in  a  race  as  a  consequence  of  a  first  organic 
lesion  determining,  according  to  the  environment,  all  the  manifesta¬ 
tions,  human,  natural  and  instinctive,  the  products  of  which  are 
known  as  Virtues  and  Vices.”  It  is  important  to  emphasize  this  ex¬ 
pression,  “according  to  the  environment”  and  to  add  that  this  family 
“has  as  a  characteristic  the  irruption  of  the  appetites,  the  great  up- 
heavel  of  our  epoch,  which  flings  itself  upon  pleasures.”  We  see  how 
Zola  enlarges  his  design,  how  this  story  of  a  family  becomes  the  de¬ 
scription  of  a  whole  epoch,  how,  “proceeding  from  the  people,  they 
spread  out  into  contemporary  society.  They  tell  the  story  of  the 
Second  Empire.” 

This  profession  of  faith  adds  nothing  to  that  which  prefaced 
Therese  Raqum.  It  simply  announces  an  ampler  and  more  methodical 
delineation,  laying  itself  open  to  the  same  objections.  Zola  flattered 
himself  nevertheless,  not  only  that  he  had  not  distorted  the  truth,  but 


REALISM  37 

that  he  had  been  corroborated  by  it  in  the  experiments  he  had  under¬ 
taken:  “For  three  years  I  had  been  assembling  documents  for  this 
great  work,  when  the  fall  of  the  Bonapartes,  which  I  needed  as  an 
artist  and  which  I  always  foresaw  as  inevitable  at  the  end  of  the 
drama,  without  daring  to  hope  for  it  so  soon,  came  to  provide  me  with 
the  terrible  and  necessary  conclusion  of  my  work.”  The  reader  of 
to-day  would  readily  incline  to  see  in  this  simple  avowal  “which  I  had 
needed  as  an  artist,”  a  more  valuable  revelation  than  in  the  painful 
erection  of  pseudo-scientific  theories.  These  however  sustained  Zola 
and  permitted  him  to  publish  indefatigably,  from  1871  to  1893,  the 
twenty  volumes  of  his  Rougon-M acquart,  which  Lemaitre  justly  defined 
as  “a  pessimist  epic  of  human  nature.” 

The  work  has  had  enormous  successes.  Zola  has  sometimes  been  ac¬ 
cused  of  having  courted  them  and  it  is  beyond  doubt  that  the 
Rougon-M  acquart  have  never  been  read  as  scientific  studies.  At  the 
moment  when  the  last  volume,  Docteur  Pascal,  appeared,  the  first  of 
these  books,  La  Fortune  des  Rougon,  the  keystone  of  the  work,  which 
the  author  called  by  its  scientific  title,  Les  Origines,  and  which  is  indis¬ 
pensable  for  anyone  caring  to  get  the  meaning  of  the  whole  fresco,  had 
reached  its  twenty-fourth  thousand  only ;  but  Nana,  surrounded  by  a 
halo  of  obscenity,  had  reached  its  one  hundred  and  sixty-sixth  thou¬ 
sand.  Zola’s  books  have  lost  this  prestige  of  immorality.  The  ma¬ 
jority  of  them  are  completely  neglected  by  the  public,  although  all  do 
not  merit  this  oblivion.  Zola  is  too  often  heavy,  pedantically  childish, 
needlessly  coarse,  conscientious  without  taste.  His  characters  live  a 
lamentably  incomplete  life.  His  heavy  style  creates  a  stifling  atmos¬ 
phere  about  them.  He  sometimes  seems  at  the  antipodes,  not  only  of 
the  classic  discipline,  but  of  the  whole  French  genius  as  well. 

Not  one  of  his  books  is  entirely  admirable.  All,  in  certain  chapters 
at  least,  provoke  ridicule  or  boredom.  Some  of  them  nevertheless  re¬ 
main  powerful  and,  even  while  stirring  repugnance,  they  compel  atten¬ 
tion.  However  artificial  these  vast  constructions  may  be,  they  live 
every  time  an  evocative  breath  traverses  them,  when  the  multitude  of  de¬ 
tails  converges  and  unites — if  not  harmonizes  in  completeness  of  ef¬ 
fect.  Such  is  the  case  with  La  Faute  de  Vabbe  Mouret  in  which  the 
description  of  a  garden,  the  Paradou,  obstinately  repeated,  slips  in 
through  all  the  interstices  of  the  narrative,  invades  it,  inundates  it,  sup¬ 
plants  it.  Zola  fails  in  political  novels  (see  Son  Excellence  Eugene 
Rougon),  which  demand  a  subtle  psychology,  as  also  in  artless  tales, 
for  example  that  Reve  of  which  Lemaitre  said  a  child  could  have  told 
it  better;  but,  even  in  his  most  confused  books,  in  the  Le  Ventre  de 
Paris  or  Pot-Bouille,  he  gives  distorted  objects  hallucinating  appear- 


38  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

ances.  L’Assommoir,  a  picture  of  alcoholic  madness,  has  striking 
passages.  Germinal  depicts  the  dramatic  life  of  the  miners  with  a 
savage  power.  From  La  Terre,  in  which  the  peasants  are  no  truer 
to  life  than  those  of  George  Sand,  exhales  an  odour  of  sensuality,  a 
physical  emotion  the  force  of  which  is  undeniable.  L’CEuvre,  the 
most  carefully  written  of  all  his  novels,  the  one  in  which,  utilizing  his 
memories  of  Manet  and  Cezanne,  he  attempted  to  depict  an  artistic 
psychology,  does  not  escape  the  usual  criticism.  The  physical  fatality 
which  weighs  upon  Claude  and  Christine  weakens  the  interest  of  the 
plot,  and  one  shares  Cezanne’s  revolt  at  the  absurdity  of  the  ending. 
In  spite  of  these  reserves,  L’QZuvre  probably  remains  the  book  by 
Zola  which  least  repels  the  ordinary  reader.  Less,  certainly,  than  La 
Debacle,  a  tale  of  the  fall  of  the  Empire,  of  the  war  and  of  the  Com¬ 
mune,  in  which,  through  a  thousand  long-drawn-out  passages,  the  Nat¬ 
uralistic  novel  turns  into  a  muddy  epic. 

Zola  is  a  visionary.  This  imaginative  obsession,  still  restrained  in 
the  Rougon-Macquart,  was  to  have,  later  on,  free  course  in  the  Trois 
Villes  and  in  the  unfinished  series  of  the  Quatre  Evangiles.  He  had  al¬ 
ways  thought  that  certain  political  ideas  were  the  inseparable  corol¬ 
lary  of  the  scientific  principles  he  believed  in.  As  early  as  1892, 
Edmond  de  Goncourt  noted  his  desire  to  act  upon  the  populace  more 
directly  than  as  a  writer.  The  Dreyfus  affair  was  to  furnish  him  with 
the  opportunity  for  a  propagandist  work  in  which  the  observer  and 
the  experimenter  finally  disappeared  before  the  romantic  visional^ 
as  to  whom  Zola  had  never,  at  bottom,  been  able  to  deceive  others,  or 
perhaps  even  himself. 

5.  GUY  DE  MAUPASSANT 

“Maupassant  is  a  very  remarkable,  a  very  charming  novelliere,  but 
a  stylist,  a  great  writer,  no,  no !”  Whatever  ill  feeling  may  have  in¬ 
spired  Edmond  de  Goncourt  to  write  thus,  and  even  if  he  be  accused  at 
that  date  (January  9,  1892)  of  a  jealous  cruelty,  it  must  nevertheless 
be  admitted  that  posterity  has,  on  the  whole,  ratified  this  judgment. 
If,  in  Maupassant’s  lifetime,  the  success  of  the  novels  sometimes  eclipsed 
that  of  his  tales,  the  novelliere  has  since  taken  ample  revenge,  and 
no  one  now  disputes  him  his  place  among  the  great  French  stoiy- 
tellers. 

It  is  impossible  to  pass  over  in  silence  the  influences  which  aided 
Maupassant’s  talent  to  develop  very  early  its  originality.  He  was 
born  in  Normandy,  passed  there  the  whole  of  his  childhood,  acquired 
the  habit  of  observing  minutely  the  picturesque  characters  about  him, 
of  collecting  the  types  and  the  anecdotes  in  his  memory  where  he  found 


REALISM  39 

later,  in  no  wise  distorted,  these  materials  for  his  work.  Too  much 
stress  cannot  be  laid  upon  this  point.  Maupassant  is  one  of  the  writ¬ 
ers  who  have  most  protested  against  all  critical  intrusion  into  their 
private  life.  He  went  so  far  as  to  refuse  his  portrait  to  the  public. 
Nevertheless  the  greater  part  of  his  narratives  are  faithful  descrip¬ 
tions  of  his  own  experiences  or  are  based  upon  accounts  collected  by 
him.  His  childhood  in  Haute  Normandie,  the  time  spent  by  him  as 
employe  in  the  Ministries  of  the  Navy  and  of  Public  Instruction,  his 
travels  in  France  and  abroad,  his  anxiety  concerning  the  menace  of 
illness,  strongly  marked  a  work  he  wished  to  be  strictly  impersonal. 

It  is  a  commonplace  to  recall  the  influence  of  Flaubert  on  Maupas¬ 
sant  who  was,  moreover,  neither  his  nephew  nor  his  godson  but,  in¬ 
deed,  the  most  faithful  disciple  of  the  “irreproachable  master.”  Flau¬ 
bert,  wishing  to  give  the  young  man  the  benefit  of  his  experience,  asso¬ 
ciated  him  in  his  quest  of  documents  for  Bowvard  et  Pecuchet,  subjected 
him,  like  a  “taskmaster,”  to  the  hard  discipline  of  style,  teaching  him 
to  take  a  walk  in  the  country,  to  look  at  a  tree  until  it  appeared  to  him 
different  from  all  other  trees  and,  on  coming  home,  to  tell  in  a  hundred 
lines  what  he  had  seen;  but  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  Maupassant 
had  also  felt  the  influence  of  Louis  Bouilhet.  At  thirty  he  still 
hesitated  between  poetry  and  fiction !  The  same  year  he  published 
the  volume  entitled  Des  Vers  and,  in  Les  Soirees  de  Medan,  the  first  of 
his  great  tales,  Boide  de  Suif. 

Success  put  an  end  to  his  indecision  and  showed  him  clearly  his  path. 
Flaubert  declared  that  Boule  de  Suif  was  a  masterpiece  which  “crushed” 
all  the  rest  of  the  volume.  Des  Vers  included  some  ingenious  and  ro¬ 
bust  poems  but  nothing  in  it  betrayed  poetic  originality.  Boule  de 
Suif,  on  the  contrary,  revealed  such  rare  qualities  of  inflexible  observa¬ 
tion,  of  sober  and  powerful  narration,  that  this  tale  made  the  be¬ 
ginner’s  name  famous.  Maupassant  entered  literary  life,  as  he  him¬ 
self  said,  “like  a  meteor.”  Sure  of  himself,  he  published,  during  the 
ten  years  which  followed,  a  series  of  tales  appearing  first  in  newspapers, 
then  collected  in  volumes,  where  the  life  of  the  Norman  peasants,  of 
prostitutes,  of  petits  bourgeois,  of  students,  was  painted  with  so  brutal 
a  fidelity  that  it  sometimes  provoked  protests  from  those  who  had 
served  as  models.  The  heroes  of  La  Matson  Tellier,  Mile.  Fifi,  Contes 
de  la  Becasse,  Miss  Harriet,  Les  Sceurs  Rondoli,  passed  before  the  eyes 
of  the  reader  under  so  skilfully  impersonal  a  light  that  this  art  ap¬ 
peared  to  be  merely  the  reproduction  of  reality,  and  the  style,  since 
it  seemed  so  natural,  was  forgotten. 

At  the  same  time,  Maupassant  inaugurated  with  Une  Vie  and  Bel- 
Ami  the  series  of  his  novels.  To  them  he  brought  the  same  inspiration 


40  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

and  the  same  gifts.  Une  Vie,  faithful  to  its  motto,  “the  humble  truth,” 
related  the  suffering  of  a  woman  who,  tortured  by  her  husband,  then  by 
her  son,  found  among  those  she  most  revered  the  same  weaknesses  and 
the  same  blemishes.  Bel-Ami  displayed  the  selfish  cynicism  of  man  to 
woman.  Maupassant  developed  his  manner  in  these  books  which  could 
be  regarded  as  composed  of  several  tales  adroitly  united.  The  psy¬ 
chology  in  them  remained  more  or  less  external  to  the  work,  the  pity 
being  understood  rather  than  expressed.  Proud  of  an  apparently  inex¬ 
haustible  fertility  (four  volumes  in  1884,  five  in  1885),  Maupassant 
gave  the  impression  of  a  force  of  nature,  of  a  robust  Norman  apple- 
tree  bearing  regularly  its  fruit. 

All  his  readers,  however,  were  not  equally  satisfied.  A  letter  from 
Taine,  dated  March  2,  1882,  affords  proof  of  this.  After  praising 
the  young  talent  of  Maupassant,  “in  many  respects  Flaubert’s  true 
and  only  successor,”  Taine  pointed  out,  with  as  much  vision  as  tact, 
the  two  weak  points  in  his  works.  To  begin  with,  the  choice  of  char¬ 
acters  :  “I  have  now  only  to  beg  you  to  add  to  your  observations 
another  series  of  observations.  You  depict  peasants,  petits  bourgeois, 
workmen,  students  and  prostitutes.  You  will  doubtless  one  day  de¬ 
pict  the  cultivated  class,  the  upper  bourgeoisie  ...  In  my  opinion, 
civilization  is  a  force.”  It  will  be  seen  how  delicately  Taine  indicated 
wherein  lay  the  incompleteness  of  the  works  which,  while  pretending  to 
“mirror”  all  life,  depicted  especially  the  aspects  of  it  until  then  hidden 
or  despised. 

Taine’s  second  criticism  came  no  less  close  to  the  mark.  Maupas¬ 
sant  prided  himself  upon  his  impartiality.  Only  a  superficial  observer 
could  take  him  at  his  word.  By  the  choice  of  his  heroes,  by  his  in¬ 
sistence  on  the  ugly  aspects  of  life,  he  took  sides.  Taine  warned  him 
of  it,  refusing  him  the  benefit  of  the  doubt:  “It  is  to  be  remarked 
secondly,”  he  continued,  “that  the  critical  and  pessimistic  point  of 
view  is,  like  all  points  of  view,  arbitrary  .  .  .  En  famille  is  cruelly 
true ;  but  if  we  were  returning  from  Bulgaria,  or  even  from  Sicily,  the 
horror  and  the  disgust  would  give  place  to  esteem  and  perhaps  admira¬ 
tion.  We  should  think  very  fine  a  family  in  which  there  was  so  little 
thieving  and  no  killing.  All  judgment  depends  upon  the  ideal  one  has 
chosen.  You  place  yours  very  high,  hence  your  severity.  Our  great 
master  Balzac  was  more  indulgent  because  he  proceeded  through  sym¬ 
pathy  .  .  .”  Let  us  interpret  these  last  lines :  amid  inevitable  orator¬ 
ical  precautions,  Taine  invited  Maupassant  to  free  himself  from  all 
the  influences  which  weighed  upon  him,  even  Flaubert’s,  to  take  as  his 
model  Balzac’s  vast  creation,  to  transform,  in  short,  his  narrow  Nat¬ 
uralism  into  a  more  comprehensive  Realism. 


REALISM  41 

Did  this  advice  of  Taine’s  contribute  to  Maupassant’s  evolution,  or 
must  we  attribute  it  exclusively  to  the  progress  of  his  own  reflection? 
However  that  may  be,  the  evolution  took  place — in  the  direction  indi¬ 
cated  by  the  philosopher-critic.  If  Maupassant  never  abandoned  the 
vein  of  the  imperturbable  novettiere,  if  Toine,  Yvette,  and  La  Main 
gauche  continued  La  Maison  Tellier  and  Mile.  Fiji,  another  inspiration 
appeared,  suggesting  to  him  works  somewhat  different  from  his  first. 
The  novel.  Mont-Oriol,  a  simple  love-story  in  which  the  author  confesses 
an  emotion  until  then  carefully  suppressed,  marks  this  transitional 
epoch.  Throwing  off  his  attitude  of  calm  detachment,  Maupassant 
made  therein  certain  personal  confidences  to  the  reader  with  regard, 
notably,  to  that  passion  for  solitude  which  he  was  again  to  celebrate  in 
Sur  Veau. 

In  1888  he  published  Pierre  et  Jean  which  is,  historically,  his  most 
significant  work,  since  in  it  the  two  tendencies  clash.  The  novel  is,  in¬ 
deed,  preceded  by  a  preface  in  which  the  ideas  set  forth  “would  lead 
rather  to  criticism  of  the  kind  of  psychological  study  undertaken  in 
Pierre  et  Jean.”  After  noting  the  impossibility  of  giving  a  defini¬ 
tion  of  the  novel  applicable  at  once  to  Don  Quixote,  to  Le  Rouge 
et  le  Noir,  to  Salammbo  and  to  Monte  Cristo,  Maupassant  studies  the 
two  opposing  forms  of  the  psychological  and  of  the  objective  novel. 
He  declares  that  there  is  found  in  the  realistic  novel  a  gain  in  life  and 
sincerity  and  that  “talented  realists  should  rather  be  called  illusion¬ 
ists.”  For  the  realist,  if  he  be  an  artist,  will  seek,  not  to  show  us  the 
banal  photograph  of  life,  but  to  give  us  a  completer  vision  of  it,  more 
striking,  more  searching  than  reality  itself.”  Through  this  liberty 
with  regard  to  truth  which  he  claims  to  modify  in  the  name  of  verisi¬ 
militude,  through  his  championship  of  the  power  of  choice  possessed  by 
the  artist,  Maupassant  differs  from  Zola.  He  is  opposed  to  the  Gon- 
courts  through  his  love  of  a  clear  style,  through  his  repudiation  of 
“the  weird,  complicated,  overloaded  and  Chinese  vocabulary  imposed 
upon  us  nowadays  under  the  name  of  artistic  writing.” 

And,  having  laid  down  these  principles,  he  writes  a  psychological 
novel.  The  drama  of  Pierre  et  Jean,  in  which  the  elder  of  two 
brothers  discovers  little  by  little  that  the  younger  is  only  his  half- 
brother,  passes  entirely  within  the  consciousness  of  the  mother  and 
of  her  two  sons.  Maupassant’s  last  two  novels  accentuated  this  evolu¬ 
tion  still  further.  A  new  public — that  which  had  not  been  conquered 
by  Ce  cochon  de  Maurin — was  moved  by  the  bitterness  of  Fort  comme 
la  Mort  and  by  the  tragic  sobriety  of  Notre  Ceeur.  Through  psychol¬ 
ogy  Maupassant  escaped  from  realism. 

He  escaped  from  it  by  yet  another  road.  Literary  historians  would 


42  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

have  no  right  to  dwell  upon  the  cruel  malady  which  was  to  wreck  Mau¬ 
passant’s  reason  had  it  not  left  profound  traces  in  his  work.  It  has 
been  pointed  out  that  at  least  a  dozen  of  his  tales  treat  the  same 
subject:  the  horror  of  death  and  the  feeling  of  fear,  the  irresistible  fear 
which  is  “like  a  decomposition  of  the  soul,”  he  says  in  a  tale  entitled 
La  Peur.  What  is  more,  in  three  tales,  Lid  (1884),  Le  Horla  (1887), 
Qui  sait?  (1890),  he  utilized  his  own  experiences  for  the  purpose  of 
studying  the  loss  of  personality  and  of  hallucination,  describing  in  them 
phenomena  to  which  it  has  been  possible  to  give  medical  names.  Here 
we  enter  the  region  of  pure  fantasy,  ranging  from  external  autoscopy 
to  absolute  madness.  Yet  never  was  his  art  more  harshly,  more 
pitilessly  precise  than  in  these  descriptions  of  the  invisible,  of  the  non¬ 
existent,  of  the  phantoms  evoked  by  a  disordered  brain,  an  agonizing 
mixture  of  lucidity  and  of  delirium.  Whatever  might  have  been  the 
horror  of  his  physical  ruin,  he  was  spared  the  supreme  downfall:  “I 
do  not  wish  to  outlive  myself!”  he  said  to  a  fr-iend  in  November,  1891. 
“I  entered  literary  life  like  a  meteor,  I  will  leave  it  like  a  thunderbolt.” 
This  wish,  at  least,  was  fulfilled.  Let  the  rest  be  silence. 

6.  J.-K.  HUYSMANS 

It  is  to  Joris-Karl  Huysmans  that  Thibaudet’s  epigram  on  the 
Naturalists  is  most  applicable:  “The  weakest  of  their  works  is  cer¬ 
tainly  themselves.”  There  is  indeed  no  connection,  unless  by  way 
of  ironic  contrast,  between  the  bourgeois  life  of  Huysmans,  head  of  a 
department  in  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction,  and  the  wild  evoca¬ 
tions  which  fill  his  books.  If  a  persistent,  determined  taste  for  trans¬ 
lating  the  most  spiritual  realities  into  pictures  and  concrete  phrases 
allowed  Huysmans,  to  the  end,  to  be  classed  among  the  Naturalists,  it 
should  at  once  be  added  that  no  one  was  less  objective.  His  whole 
work  denotes  the  unfolding  of  a  madly  materialistic  imagination,  of  a 
sort  of  Verhaeren  liberated  by  no  poetry,  who  never  knew  any  “heures 
claires who  was  never  capable  of  rising  to  the  contemplation  of  “la 
multiple  splendeur.” 

His  first  works  disclose  the  lack  of  balance  which  threatens  every 
Naturalistic  creation:  Le  Drageoir  aux  epices  does  not  escape  it  any 
more  than  does  Les  Sceurs  Vatard.  En  menage,  the  most  important  of 
his  Naturalistic  novels,  demonstrates  it  abundantly.  Huysmans  here 
pretended  to  depict  contemporary  life  in  the  story  of  two  friends:  a 
writer,  Andre  and  a  painter,  Cyprien.  Andre,  a  somewhat  queer  char¬ 
acter  (“he  had  been  uninterruptedly  middling,  he  had  been  M.  Tout  le 
Monde”),  marries  a  woman,  Berthe,  who  is  decidedly  his  superior. 


REALISM  43 

Having  surprised  her  with  a  lover,  he  succeeds  in  recovering  his  liberty 
which  he  forthwith  transfers  into  the  hands  of  an  old  servant,  then  of 
a  harlot,  finally  of  a  former  mistress  whom  he  encounters  again. 
When  this  latter  has  forsaken  him,  there  is  nothing  left  for  him  but  to 
get  Berthe  back  from  the  grotesque  relatives  where  she  was  waiting. 
Cyprien,  too,  during  this  time,  has  fallen  victim  to  a  vulgar  collage 
and  formulates  the  conclusion :  “After  all,  concubinage  and  marriage 
are  of  equal  value  since  they  have  both  freed  us  from  artistic  imagin¬ 
ings  and  from  fleshly  sorrows.  No  more  talent  or  health — what  a 
dream !”  The  pessimism,  latent  in  Zola,  here  asserts  itself.  Huys- 
mans  does  declare,  in  places,  that  modern  life  contains  unknown 
beauties.  This  remains  a  profession  of  theoretical  faith.  What  oozes 
from  the  whole  book  is  misanthropy,  hatred  for  this  incurably  vulgar, 
ugly,  stupid  world:  “It  is  not  a  bad  thing  to  be  emptied  as  we  are,” 
murmurs  Cyprien ;  “for  now  every  concession  has  been  made,  perhaps 
the  eternal  human  stupidity  will  have  some  use  for  us.”  Is  then,  the 
Naturalistic  novel  a  perpetual  recurrence  of  Bouvard  et  Pecuchet,  a 
contrivance  for  the  artist  to  avenge  himself? 

Conscious  of  this  failure  with  respect  to  the  society  of  his  time,  Huys- 
mans  blamed  Romanticism  for  it:  “Ah!  If  we  were  not  all,  every 
one  of  us,  gangrened  with  Romanticism;  if,  instead  of  our  infec¬ 
tion,  we  did  not  confine  ourselves  to  whitewashing  it,  we  should  see 
many  other  modern  beauties  which  escape  us!”  This  Naturalist- 
Romantic  was  reduced  to  flight.  He  thus  produced  the  most  curious 
of  his  works,  A  Rebours,  a  flamboyantly  realistic  stained-glass  win¬ 
dow.  His  hero,  Des  Esseintes,  is  persuaded  of  this  truth,  that  “nature 
has  had  her  day,  she  has  finally  wearied  the  attentive  patience  of  the  re¬ 
fined  by  the  disgusting  uniformity  of  her  skies  and  her  landscapes.” 
The  important  thing  then  is  “to  substitute  the  dream  of  reality  for 
reality  itself.”  Des  Esseintes  creates  an  artificial  paradise,  a  discon¬ 
certing  mixture  of  ingenuity  and  puerility.  He  calls  to  his  aid  all  the 
excitants,  composes  symphonies  of  colours,  of  precious  stones,  of 
liqueurs,  of  perfumes,  of  make-ups,  of  flowers — of  which  he  favours 
chiefly  the  natural  ones  which  have  an  artificial  look — -of  music,  ad¬ 
mitting  that  only  “which  grates  on  his  nerves.”  An  hour  at  the 
Bodega  stands  him  in  stead  of  a  trip  to  London.  An  aquarium  aids 
him  to  transform  his  dining-room  into  a  maritime  illusion.  Painting, 
with  Gustave  Moreau,  is  a  precious  auxiliary  for  him.  Literature  even 
more:  Latin  literature  which  dates  from  Petronius ;  French  litera¬ 
ture  in  which  he  retains  Villon,  several  sacred  orators  and  theological 
writers,  finally  a  few  moderns,  Baudelaire,  Barbey  d’Aurevilly,  Flau- 


44  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

bert,  Goncourt,  Zola,  Villiers  de  L’lsle  Adam,  Verlaine,  Corbiere  et 
Mallarme.  Moreover  in  these  latter  he  hails  a  decadence,  not  a  dawn. 
He  attains  his  supreme  triumph  the  day  his  doctor  prescribes  him  a 
nourishing  peptonized  injection,  seeing  in  this  “a  decisive  insult  hurled 
at  old  nature.”  Brief  apogee.  Condemned  to  resume  normal  life 
once  more,  Des  Esseintes  returns  to  Paris  with  no  other  hope  of  sal¬ 
vation  from  “the  tide-race  of  human  mediocrity”  than  the  gleam  in  his 
soul  of  belief  in  a  future  life. 

A  Rebours  marks  the  turning-point  in  Huysmans’  life  and  work. 
The  whole  book  is  interspersed  with  appeals  to  Catholicism.  He  feels 
himself  attracted  by  the  subtleties  and  intricacies  of  theological  doc¬ 
trines,  finding  in  them  a  community  with  his  eccentric  speculations. 
He  loves  Catholic  monuments,  ecclesiastical  furniture  and  vestments. 
Human  mediocrity  alone  still  forms  an  obstacle  between  faith  and  him¬ 
self.  The  bondieuseries  of  the  Saint-Sulpice  quarter  turn  his  stomach. 
He  is  exasperated  by  the  language  of  Catholic  writers,  “that  white 
language,  that  flux  of  the  phrase  which  no  astringent  can  stop.”  He 
struggles  then  and,  in  order  to  escape  from  religion,  throws  himself 
into  the  magic  which  is  its  sacrilegious  parody;  but  the  Black  Mass  in 
La-Bas  is  only  a  stage  on  the  appointed  way. 

Thereafter  Huysmans’  works — works  with  significant  titles — were 
merely  the  faithful  description  of  the  road  followed  to  the  moment  of 
total  conversion.  From  this  point  of  view,  En  Route  and  L’Oblat  fur¬ 
nish  the  psychologist  with  useful  information.  Huysmans  further 
gave  frequent  proofs  of  his  zeal  by  accounts  of  sanctity  or  studies  of 
religious  monuments.  His  last  book  was  dedicated  to  the  glorification 
of  Lourdes  and,  compared  with  Zola’s,  shows  the  route  travelled  by 
each  of  these  Naturalists  since  Les  Soirees  de  Medan.  A  keener  in¬ 
terest  attaches  to  La  Cathedrale.  The  protagonist,  Durtal-Huysmans, 
here  confesses  in  literary  wise  his  horror  of  provincial  life,  his 
rebellion  against  the  banality  of  certain  priests,  his  humble  repentances. 
La  Cathedrale  also  offers  a  living  picture  of  the  ecclesiastical  world, 
from  Abbe  Gevresin,  the  clever  director  of  consciences,  and  the  learned 
Abbe  Plomb,  to  the  holy  simplicity  of  Mme.  Bavoil  and  the  inane  tittle- 
tattle  “of  the  pious  bourgeoisie  wherein  is  recruited  the  fine  flower  of 
feminine  Pharisees.”  Above  all  this  book  contains  an  amorously  per¬ 
sistent  description,  at  once  literal  and  symbolic,  completed  by  mani¬ 
fold  comparisons  with  other  French  cathedrals,  of  that  masterpiece  of 
mediaeval  architecture,  Notre  Dame  de  Chartres  which  Huysmans,  even 
if  he  can  be  criticized  with  regard  to  certain  archaeological  interpreta¬ 
tions,  has  succeeded  in  evoking  alive  in  a  spell  of  sacred  enchantment. 

For,  however  limited  Huysmans  may  be  intellectually,  however  child- 


REALISM  45 

ish  his  conception  of  the  world  may  appear,  the  style  always  saves  his 
work  from  mediocrity.  In  modern  literature  he  esteemed  above  all 
“the  superb,  spotted  style  of  the  Goncourts  and  the  highly  flavoured 
style  of  Verlaine  and  Mallarme.”  His  personal  style  is  commensurate 
with  his  admirations.  Violent,  loaded  with  material  details,  with  sud¬ 
den  sarcastic  outbursts,  it  always  remains  equally  imaginative.  One 
may  detest  it,  but  whoever  has  a  taste  for  it  will  rarely  find  a  lapse. 
For  it  takes  possession  of  the  writer,  as  clear-cut  and  spirited,  apropos 
of  the  most  diverse  subjects.  Here  is  a  genre  picture:  “Almost  merry, 
they  went  to  give  themselves  to  sleep,  that  symbol  of  death,  as 
M.  Desableau  called  it,  in  their  bedroom;  and  there,  after  he  had  wound 
up  his  watch,  the  husband,  taking  off  his  coat  and  waistcoat,  showed  a 
back  which  two  pink  suspenders  quartered  with  a  Saint  Andrew’s 
Cross”  (En  Menage,  p.  99).  Here  is  an  artistic  commentary:  “Alone, 
in  fact,  the  enlightened  century  managed  to  envelop  woman  with  a 
vicious  atmosphere,  fashioning  the  furniture  according  to  the  form  of 
her  charms,  imitating  the  contractions  of  her  pleasure,  the  volutes  of 
her  spasms,  in  the  undulations,  the  contortions  of  wood  and  of  copper, 
spicing  the  dulcet  languors  of  the  blonde  with  its  sharp,  clear  setting, 
attenuating  the  briny  flavour  of  the  brunette  with  upholstery  of  soft, 
watery,  almost  insipid  tones”  (A  Rebours,  p.  87).  Here  is  a  psycho¬ 
logical  description :  “The  account  he  could  draw  up  of  his  person  was 
balanced  by  inner  damages  and  intimate  quarrels.  If  his  soul  was 
benumbed  and  bruised,  his  mind  was  no  less  sore  and  tired.  He  seemed 
to  have  become  blunted.  Those  biographies  of  saints  which  Durtal 
proposed  to  write,  lay  in  the  state  of  sketches,  evaporating  as  soon  as 
he  attempted  to  give  them  definite  form”  ( La  Cathedrale,  p.  111). 
Even  if  Huysmans’  books  were  to  fall  into  public  oblivion,  literary 
men  would  always  linger  over  them,  as  over  those  authors  of  the 
Latin  decadence  he  so  passionately  loved. 

7.  JULES  EENAE.D 

From  a  strictly  chronological  point  of  view  one  may  be  astonished 
that  Jules  Renard’s  name  should  follow  immediately  after  Huysmans’ ; 
but  we  have  seen  that  Naturalism  always  ends  in  escape  from  Natural¬ 
ism.  From  the  crude  painting  of  the  naked  truth  the  Goncourts  es¬ 
caped  by  their  impressionistic  mobility,  Daudet  by  the  freshness  of  his 
Proven9al  fantasy,  Zola  by  his  lyrical  imagination,  Maupassant  by 
psychology  and  the  fantastic,  Huysmans  by  an  art  in  which  the  “writ¬ 
ing”  was  infinitely  more  important  than  the  “subject.”  This  demon¬ 
stration  could  not  be  better  completed  than  by  studying  the  epigram¬ 
matic  Naturalism  of  Jules  Renard. 


46  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

The  quality  whereby  Jules  Renard  first  of  all  holds  our  attention  is 
loyalty.  This  conscientious  virtue  has  a  double  aspect,  positive  and 
negative.  It  explains  the  form  adopted  by  him,  his  regard  for  finish. 
It  also  explains  his  refusal  to  generalize  any  experience,  his  resolve,  in 
portraying  peasants,  never  to  go  beyond  what  he  had  seen,  simply  “to 
reproduce  a  few  traits  of  that  fierce,  primitive  figure,  only  a  shade  sad 
and  rather  reassuring.”  His  known  work  is  fairly  brief.  What 
he  published  of  it  was  even  less.  He  did  not  give  the  public  his  first 
novel,  Les  Cloportes,  which  is  already  the  book  of  his  village,  attesting 
his  hatred  of  romantic  plots  and  his  desire  to  refine  the  Goncourts’ 
ecriture  artiste  to  the  point  of  perfection.  L’CEil  clair  is  also  a  post¬ 
humous  publication.  We  find  gathered  in  it,  side  by  side  with  more 
negligible  fragments,  documents  in  which  the  artist  familiarly  defines 
himself,  in  which  he  puts  us,  for  example,  on  our  guard  against  “the 
professional  enthusiasm  of  the  humorist,”  in  which  we  see  the  writer, 
the  countryman,  and  the  republican  at  work  in  a  triple  unity.  In  it 
must  be  more  particularly  cited  the  curious  Lettres  a  I’Amie,  a  mixture 
of  subtleties  and  brutalities  with  equal  over-elaboration,  with  their 
alternating  unconstraint  and  pitiless  self-irony,  in  which  he  notes  one 
of  his  own  characteristic  traits,  “a  sort  of  inverted  delicacy.” 

This  “inverted  delicacy”  which  prevented  him  from  sparing  Daudet 
the  painful  effort  of  picking  up  his  stick  so  as  not  to  increase  the  moral 
embarrassment  caused  by  this  physical  pain,  Jules  Renard  carried  into 
the  whole  of  his  work.  There  still  remains  a  trace  of  the  Romantic  in 
Jules  Renard,  if  we  are  to  consider  as  a  mark  of  the  Romantic  the  in¬ 
capacity  to  accept  life  simply  and  without  adopting  towards  it  a  pre¬ 
concerted  attitude.  This  appears  already  in  L’Ecornifleur  where  the 
narrative  carries  the  assumption  of  haughty  detachment  to  the  point  of 
improbability.  The  clearsightedness  with  regard  to  himself  turns  to 
sourness.  This  pretended  confession  becomes  a  pessimistic  anatomical 
chart.  The  hero,  a  false  man  of  letters,  a  false  friend,  a  false  lover, 
remains  throughout  an  ecornifleur;  but  is  it  quite  natural  that  he 
should  thus  reveal  his  parasitic  quality?  Doubly  ironical  expressions 
like  “the  bourgeois  is  the  person  who  has  not  my  ideas”  or  “have 
I  held  up  my  end?  I  do  not  remember  having  fallen  below  my  level” 
are  rather  out  of  keeping  in  the  mouth  of  so  sorry  an  individual. 

The  secondary  characters  appear  truer:  M.  Vernet  who  is  per¬ 
haps  merely  a  Lepic  grown  rich  and  stupid ;  Mme.  Vernet,  a  sentimental 
bourgtioise;  their  niece,  Marguerite,  who  develops  so  curiously;  but 
however  skilful  the  description  of  the  little  Norman  watering-place,  this 
book,  though  short,  is  not  exempt  from  tedious  passages.  Above  all  it 


REALISM  47 

is  too  visibly  an  exercise,  a  construction  on  the  literary  theme  furnished 
hy  the  Goncourts :  “To  let,  a  second-hand  parasite.” 

Poil  de  Carotte  is  Jules  Renard’s  most  celebrated  work.  The  humor¬ 
ist  is  not  absent  from  it  to  give  impact  to  the  “mots”  of  his  charac¬ 
ters,  nor  the  stylist  enamoured  of  refinement ;  but  this  book,  where  the 
observation  is  so  rich  one  hesitates  to  call  it  a  novel,  owes  its  value  to 
its  creation  of  a  type  and  its  evocation  of  an  environment.  In  Poil  de 
Carotte,  which  so  quickly  became  popular,  Jules  Renard  has  drawn  the 
portrait  of  the  miserable,  clumsy  child  oppressed,  in  varying  degrees, 
by  a  shrewish  mother,  a  selfish  father  and  a  profiteering  brother  and 
sister.  The  picture  might  easily  have  become  conventional.  It  re¬ 
mains  admirably  time  because,  as  a  counterpoise,  it  implies,  on  the 
part  of  Poil  de  Carotte,  a  series  of  sly  revenges.  The  victim  of  his 
family,  he  is  not  a  child-martyr  idealized  in  literary  fashion.  He  is 
sly,  fearful,  as  cruel  towards  animals  as  are  his  parents  towards  him. 
The  drama  remains  latent,  the  pessimism  inexpressed,  the  comic  re¬ 
establishing  a  welcome  balance.  Not  that  analysis  ever  abdicates. 
With  just  a  touch  of  caricatural  exaggeration,  Mme.  Lepic  is  terribly 
true.  None  of  the  unclean  details  of  the  Pension  St.  Marc  is  hidden 
from  us ;  but  once  again  is  recognized  in  this  book  the  power  of  sug¬ 
gestion  possessed  by  rigid  lines.  From  this  realistic  description  em¬ 
anates  a  mystery.  The  most  detailed,  the  most  original  character  in 
the  book,  M.  Lepic,  is  not  an  enigma  for  his  son  alone.  In  him,  as  in 
Poil  de  Carotte,  stir  strange,  confused  things  they  will  never  succeed  in 
becoming  aware  of ;  but  beneath  the  ridiculous  phrases  pronounced  by 
them  this  lends  their  talk  a  sort  of  rudimentary  poetry  which  occa¬ 
sionally  stirs  the  emotions. 

This  poetry  peculiar  to  Jules  Renard — poetry  inverted  like  his 
delicacy — reappears  in  a  work  which  presents  united  the  diverse 
aspects  of  his  talent,  Le  Vigneron  dans  sa  vigne.  Here  he  confesses 
his  personal  beliefs,  his  sincere  love  of  the  peasantry  which  does  not 
blind  him  however  to  the  differences  between  them  and  himself.  Les 
Tablettes  d’Eloi  contains  the  most  vigorous  arraignment  of  the  hypoc¬ 
risies  of  modern  life  and  preaches,  by  example,  the  necessity  for  a 
pitiless  self-examination.  Le  Vigneron  offers  many  a  trait  of  easy  ob¬ 
servation,  of  those  country  dialogues,  more  characterized  than  Mau¬ 
passant’s,  which  were  the  secret  of  Ragotte’ s  success.  It  contains 
travel  notes  full  of  quick  sketches  and  of  exercises  in  verbal  virtuosity. 
It  ends  with  Histoires  naturelles  which  is  the  author’s  most  perfect 
achievement,  the  logical  outcome  of  his  literary  ideal.  Indeed  Jules 
Renard,  like  the  Goncourts’  whom  he  admired,  devoted  himself  wholly  to 


48  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  service  of  his  art.  Not  that  he  saw  in  it,  after  the  fashion  of  the 
Romantics,  a  priesthood ;  but  he  found  a  beauty  and  a  grandeur  in 
those  virtues  of  conscientiousness  and  of  discipline  which  the  title  of 
writer  exacts  of  an  honest  man :  “Yes,  man  of  letters,”  he  wrote  in 
Le  Vigneron;  “I  shall  be  one  to  the  day  of  my  death  .  .  .  and  if,  by 
chance,  I  am  immortal,  I  shall  devote  myself,  throughout  eternity,  to 
literature.  And  never  do  I  tire  of  writing,  and  I  write  eternally,  and 
I  don’t  give  a  damn  for  the  rest,  like  the  vine-grower  treading  his 
wine-press.” 

The  very  subject  of  Les  Histoires  naturelles  confines  the  writer 
within  the  exact  limits  which  Jules  Renard  desired :  to  observe  an  ob¬ 
ject  and  to  portray  it — the  art  of  the  painter,  if  you  will,  but  of  the 
literary  painter  who  must  evoke  rather  than  represent.  Jules  Re- 
nard’s  entire  work  tends  towards  this  simplification  because  he  aims 
at  this  simplicity:  to  offer,  of  nature  and  of  mankind,  something 
like  instantaneous  photographs  expressing  at  once  the  object  and  the 
mind’s  reaction.  The  simplest  method  is  that  which  adds  a  lit¬ 
eral  image  to  the  description:  “This  evening  the  setting  sun!  is  a 
dirty  yellow.  One  would  say  it  had  eaten  an  egg.”  Another  step 
and  the  comparison  will  widen  out:  “The  green  of  these  gardens  re¬ 
joices  my  eye  like  a  display  of  cutlery.  Let  us  strive  to  cast  rings  on 
these  points.”  Advancing  still  further,  Jules  Renard  suppresses  all 
the  relationships  underlying  two  ideas :  “Ah !  I  can  breathe  here ! 
Yes,  it  is  the  favourite  climate  of  the  scrofulous.”  Finally,  supreme 
refinement,  the  intellectual  idea  takes  concrete  form :  “I  write  only 
from  life  and  I  wipe  my  pens  on  a  living  poodle.”  The  success  of  this 
epigrammatic  realism  is  the  impossibility  for  the  reader  to  decide  where 
the  thought  ends  and  the  image  begins,  so  intimately  are  they  involved 
in  each  other. 

It  is  easy  to  conceive  that  the  animal  portraits  offered  an  adequate 
matter  for  all  his  gifts  of  humour,  of  fancy,  of  precision  and  of 
patience.  For  this  illusion  of  the  instantaneous  is  the  reward  of  a 
long  subconscious  gestation  and  of  a  methodical  labour.  Picturesque¬ 
ness  and  poetry  are  the  two  qualities  of  Les  IListoires  naturelles  and 
Maurice  Ravel  was  not  mistaken  when  he  saw  in  these  pieces  of  highly 
wrought  prose  a  certain  degree  of  musical  suggestion.  On  an  instru¬ 
ment  which  might  have  been  believed  monotonous,  Jules  Renard  plays 
subtly  varied  airs.  He  passes  from  comic  satire  ( La  Pintade )  to  the 
unexpected  pun  ( Les  Fourmis),  to  the  half-mocking,  half-sincere  lyri¬ 
cism  of  Le  Cygne;  from  mystification  ( Le  Serpent )  or  from  evocative 
brevity  ( Le  Cafard:  “black  and  stuck  on  like  a  keyhole”),  to  great  or¬ 
dered  pictures  (La  V ache)  and  to  the  freshest  poetry:  “I  held  my 


REALISM  49 

breath,  quite  proud  to  be  taken  for  a  tree  by  a  kingfisher ;  and  I  am 
sure  it  did  not  fly  away  through  fear,  but  because  it  believed  it  was 
merely  passing  from  one  branch  to  another”  ( Le  Martin-Pecheur). 
When  he  attains  such  perfection,  Jules  Renard’s  art  evokes  the  mem¬ 
ory  of  Japanese  prints  in  which  an  animal,  a  tree  or  a  branch  makes 
the  whole  picture,  filling  the  spirit  with  a  mysterious  joy.  The  Gon- 
courts’  influence  aiding  the  natural  bend  of  his  genius,  Jules  Renard 
avoided  Zola’s  naturalism  to  arrive  at  the  realism  of  Hokusai. 

8.  NATURALISM  IN  THE  THEATRE 

For  evident  reasons  it  is  above  all  in  the  novel  that  Naturalism  tri¬ 
umphed.  In  poetry  one  can  at  most  trace  its  influence  in  the 
familiar  pictures  by  Coppee  and  by  Aicard.  It  made,  however,  a 
great  effort  to  conquer  the  theatre  and,  if  it  failed,  at  least  this 
attempt  left  some  traces. 

The  French  stage  continued  to  be  fed  by  writers  who  had  obtained 
their  first  success  under  the  Second  Empire.  We  have  already  spoken 
of  verse  drama.  Light  comedy  was  represented  by  Meilhac  and  Halevy 
and,  with  a  finer  but  less  spontaneous  verve,  by  Edouard  Pailleron 
whose  Le  Monde  ou  Von  s’ennuie  adjusts  Les  Femmes  savantes  to  the 
taste  of  the  salons  of  1880.  With  a  very  supple  skill,  Victorien 
Sardou  triumphed  in  amusing  comedy  as  well  as  in  drama,  even  melo¬ 
drama.  He  aspired  merely  to  interest  the  public  and  he  succeeded. 
The  two  masters  of  the  theatre  up  to  1880  remained  Emile  Augier  and 
Alexandre  Dumas  fils. 

The  contrast  between  these  rivals,  who  were  not  however  entirely 
without  mutual  influence,  has  become  a  commonplace.  Both  succeeded 
fairly  well  in  the  bourgeois  play,  the  serious  comedy,  such  as  it  had 
been  conceived  by  Diderot,  but  with  ideas  and  by  methods  often  op¬ 
posed.  Augier  never  attempted  to  scandalize  the  bonne  bourgeoisie 
to  which  he  belonged.  It  is  true  that,  after  a  period  of  groping,  of 
neo-classical  limitations,  he  had  renounced  the  heritage  of  Ponsard 
and  attempted  the  comedy  of  manners ;  but  he  persisted  in  his  conserva¬ 
tism,  in  the  defence  of  the  family,  of  the  home,  of  tradition  which,  it 
seemed  to  him,  were  threatened  by  the  moral  dissolution,  contemporary 
effrontery  and  banter  insidiously  sapping  established  order.  He 
carried  on  his  struggle  in  solid,  well-contructed  plays,  without  excessive 
verve,  which  were  interesting  through  their  qualities  of  healthy  ponder- 
ation  but  in  which  uniformity  rather  quickly  provokes  boredom. 
Augier  wrote  for  the  average  public.  This  needs  to  have  the  truths  it 
considers  eternal  repeated  to  it  each  generation  in  the  exact  language 
of  its  time.  Never  having  aimed  at  holding  the  attention  of  the  curious 


50  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

reader  whom  no  obstacle  will  turn  from  the  work  in  which  he  has  dis¬ 
covered  some  originality,  Augier  has  completely  passed  away  with  his 
public. 

It  is  not  the  same  with  Dumas.  With  a  fiery  ardour,  he  attacked  all 
the  prejudices  flattered  by  Augier.  Even  when  he  had  abjured  the 
flaming  romanticism  of  La  Dame  aux  C amelias,  he  always  retained 
some  characteristics  of  the  preacher  who  loves  to  call  the  sin  by  its 
name  and  describes  it  before  denouncing  it.  In  the  theatre,  he  aspired 
to  carry  on  a  crusade,  preaching  the  holiness  of  love  in  all  its  forms, 
the  equality  of  woman  and  man,  the  sacred  character  of  the  union,  the 
cowardice  of  the  thousand  hypocrisies  which  borrow  of  true  passion 
merely  its  mask.  Haunted  by  his  own  visions  he  turned  towards  the 
end  into  an  apocalyptic  prophet.  If  Une  Visite  de  noces  forms  a 
fairly  successful  realistic  one-act  play,  La  Femme  de  Claude  is  scarcely 
more  than  a  staged  sermon.  In  spite  of  all  his  defects,  those  who  like 
a  writer  to  be  first  of  all  an  original  temperament  will  forgive  Dumas 
much,  because  of  a  certain  taste  for  paradox  in  the  matter  and  in  the 
form  which  prevents  his  work  from  aging  too  completely.  If  the  bru¬ 
tal  sallies,  the  mordant  sayings  thanks  to  which  Dumas  overcame 
the  objections  of  his  audiences  appear  to  us  nowadays  artificial,  if  the 
long  tirades  in  which  he  usurps  the  place  of  his  protagonists  irritate  us 
by  their  lack  of  verisimilitude,  the  reading  of  Dumas’  plays — and 
above  all  of  their  truculent  prefaces — remains  nevertheless  very  amus¬ 
ing — so  far  at  times  as  to  give  an  impression  of  life  not  always  con¬ 
firmed  by  the  acting. 

This  social  comedy  of  Dumas  and  Augier  did  not  constitute  a 
Naturalistic  theatre.  The  Naturalistic  novelists  deemed  it  indispen¬ 
sable  to  make  their  theories  triumph  on  the  stage  as  well  as  in  the  novel. 
No  one  appeared  to  them  better  qualified  for  this  enterprise  than  them¬ 
selves.  In  fact  the  idea  of  the  theatre  haunted  them.  Turn  by  turn 
Goncourt,  Zola,  Daudet,  Maupassant  and  Renard  tried  their  hand  at 
it.  Foil  de  Carotte  and  Le  Pain  de  menage  are  still  listened  to  with 
pleasure  and  U Arlesienne  has  enjoyed  a  lasting  favour  due  to  senti¬ 
mental  qualities  without  anything  properly  speaking  realistic.  Once 
shorn  of  the  imagination  which,  in  the  fictional  form,  dissirmilated  their 
poverty,  the  plots  of  Zola’s  plays  have  merely  furnished  poor  melo¬ 
dramas,  very  inferior  to  d’Ennery’s. 

One  name  only  of  a  real  theatrical  writer  marks  the  Realist  epoch, 
Henry  Becque’s.  After  having  been  unjustly  rejected  by  all  the  the¬ 
atres,  Recque’s  plays  have  been  rather  immoderately  extolled.  Becque 
has  left  two  important  pieces:  Les  Corbeaux,  where  a  manufactur¬ 
er’s  widow  struggles  among  rogues  with  her  three  daughters  one  of 


REALISM  51 

whom  is  reduced  to  marrying  the  worst  rascal  and  La  Parisienne  which 
shows  how  a  little  bourgeoise  may  live  serenely  between  her  husband 
and  her  lover.  These  two  plays  are  chiefly  interesting  because  of  their 
convention,  of  a  sort  of  inverted  idealization.  Becque  eliminates  all 
purpose,  he  transports  to  the  theatre  scenes  of  daily  life  minutely  ob¬ 
served  and  cruelly  reproduced.  He  reduces  the  plot  to  the  role  of  a 
mere  link.  Here  again,  however,  there  is  a  choice.  Real  life  has  not 
this  sustained  spitefulness  or  this  even  flatness  which  he  lends  it.  His 
bitter  point  of  view  is  revealed  in  the  ferocity  of  certain  expressions, 
in  the  contrast  between  the  situations  and  his  actor’s  speeches. 
Becque’s  art  is  undeniable  but  its  limits  are  quickly  detected. 

There  was,  however,  a  lesson  to  be  drawn  for  the  theatre  from  the 
Naturalistic  movement.  Dumas  and  Augier  were  the  slaves  of  numer¬ 
ous  conventions.  The  need  of  a  return  to  the  truth  was  felt.  The 
creation  of  the  Theatre  Libre  responded  to  this  necessity.  Its  founder, 
Antoine,  appealed  to  the  authors  of  “cynical”  comedies  and  “slices  of 
life.”  That  these  exercises,  useful  in  the  beginning  on  the  score  of 
reaction,  quickly  became  factitious,  that  the  authors  who,  like  Georges 
Ancey,  remained  imprisoned  in  the  formula  of  the  Theatre  Libre,  never 
produced  a  masterpiece,  cannot  be  denied ;  but  it  must  not  be  forgotten 
that  Curel,  Brieux,  Courteline  and  others  who  were  to  count  among  the 
best  contemporary  dramatists,  made  their  first  appearance  at  tne 
Theatre  Libre.  Here  Naturalism,  counterbalancing  the  Romantic  in¬ 
fluence,  opened  the  door  to  all  free  initiatives. 


CHAPTER  IV 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION 

1.  INFLUENCES.  BARBEY  d’aUREVILLY 

LITERARY  history  does  not  lend  itself  readily  to  sharp  divi¬ 
sions.  In  introducing  them  for  the  sake  of  clearness  in  the 
account,  sight  should  not  be  lost  of  the  fact  that  there  is  al¬ 
ways  a  sort  of  overlapping  between  two  successive  periods.  A  genera¬ 
tion  which  has  arrived  produces  its  most  characteristic  works  at  the 
moment  when  that  which  is  to  supplant  it  begins.  Sapho  and  A 
rebours  appeared  in  1884,  Germinal  and  Bel- Ami  in  1885.  The  novel 
appeared  to  have  become  the  fief  of  the  Naturalists.  Four  years  later, 
Jules  Huret  could  open  an  inquiry  on  the  decline  of  Naturalism.  Dur¬ 
ing  the  ten  years  covered  by  Maupassant’s  career  influences  had  been 
felt,  works  had  been  accomplished  which  had  profoundly  modified  the 
mentality  of  both  writers  and  public. 

There  is  in  the  effort  of  the  majority  of  thinkers  a  sort  of  negative 
period  during  which  they  clear  the  ground  and  seek  the  solid  soil  on 
which  to  establish  their  truth.  In  this  first  part  of  their  work,  Taine 
and  Renan  had,  up  to  a  certain  point,  been  able  to  appear  as  the  allies 
of  the  Realists ;  but  when  the  time  came  for  each  to  construct  his  own 
dogmatic  edifice  (there  is  no  need  to  strain  words  to  speak  of  Renan’s 
dogmatism),  it  was  seen  that  the  author  of  Les  Origines  and  that  of 
Le  Pretre  de  Nemi  had  nothing  in  common  with  Zola  save  a  few  enemies. 
It  was  the  same  with  Stendhal  whom  certain  Naturalists  had  thought 
to  annex.  His  admirers  soon  discovered  that  the  psychologist  in  him 
was  infinitely  more  important  than  the  Realist,  that  his  work  was  less 
a  picture  of  French  or  Italian  customs  than  an  indefatigable  abstract 
analysis  of  the  secret  movements  of  the  human  heart. 

Limited  to  Stendhal  alone,  this  sudden  reaction  would  have  been  taxed 
with  superficiality,  attributed  to  certain  resemblances  between  Julien 
Sorel  or  Fabrice  del  Dongo  and  the  adolescents  of  another  post-war 
period ;  but  all  the  signs  agreed  in  showing  that  the  external  descrip¬ 
tions  of  the  Naturalists  had  wearied,  that  they  were  provoking  a  re¬ 
version  towards  those  psychologists  who  had  studied  the  soul  and  its 

mechanism— internal  conflicts  in  preference  to  collective  settings. 

52 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  53 

Adolphe,  Obermann — all  the  heroes  of  solitary  meditation — enjoyed  a 
timely  revival.  In  1883—84  appeared  the  two  volumes  of  Henri- 
Frederic  Amiel’s  Journal  intime.  Despite  the  protestations  of  Brune- 
tiere  who  detected,  in  this  minute,  intense,  almost  sickly  observer  of  his 
own  consciousness,  the  old  Romantic  enemy,  many  contemporaries 
found  in  him  the  echo  of  their  own  preoccupations,  a  faithful  image  of 
the  spiritual  crisis  through  which  they  were  passing.  Paul  Bourget 
thus  interpreted  their  impressions:  “Like  Taine  and  like  Renan, 
Amiel  was  imbued  with  Germanic  ideas  and  attempted  to  adjust  these  to 
the  exigencies  of  his  purely  Latin  education.  Like  Stendhal,  like 
Flaubert,  like  so  many  others  less  illustrious,  he  incurred  the  conse¬ 
quences  of  the  abuse  of  the  analytical  spirit.  Like  Leconte  de  Lisle 
and  like  Baudelaire,  he  attempted  to  escape  in  dream,  having  suffered 
too  much  from  life.” 

The  first  act  of  this  generation  to  which  Stendhal,  Baudelaire,  Amiel 
had,  by  different  paths,  taught  the  worship  of  the  ego,  was  to  render 
homage  to  a  writer  until  then  unjustly  ignored.  Forty  years  after 
the  publication  of  his  first  book,  Jules  Barbey  d’Aurevilly  seemed  to 
Zola  nothing  more  than  “a  grotesque  of  our  literature  ...  a  sculp¬ 
tured  gargoyle,  grimacing  and  highly  wrought,  without,  moreover,  the 
slightest  humanity,  lost  in  a  cathedral  corner.”  Some  years  later 
Zola  could  hear  the  majority  of  the  young  writers  pronounce  this  name 
as  that  of  a  respected  master.  Besides,  their  respect  was  addressed, 
like  ours,  even  more  to  the  man  than  to  his  work.  Barbey’s  writings 
do  not  always,  at  first  sight,  justify  his  reputation.  In  order  to  ap¬ 
preciate  them  fully,  it  is  necessary  to  evoke  the  silhouette  of  the  proud 
musketeer  who  traversed  the  nineteenth  century  as  a  Royalist  and 
Catholic  gentleman,  always  ready  to  doff  his  hat  and  to  defend  his 
double  faith  with  pen  or  with  sword,  keeping  resolutely  covered  when 
he  passed  the  cortege  of  one  of  those  false  gods  adored  by  his  century. 
Lamartine,  in  a  happy  phrase,  had  surnamed  him  “the  Due  de  Guise  of 
our  literature.” 

When  we  keep  before  our  eyes  this  picture  of  the  man,  it  is  more 
easily  explicable  that  a  contemporary  reader  does  not  prefer  Barbey’s 
more  finished  works.  For  a  long  time  a  mystery  surrounded  those 
poems  which  the  author  guarded  jealously,  merely  divulging  his  inten¬ 
tion  of  calling  them  Poussieres — a  title  which  appears  to  us  to-day 
only  too  justified.  We  find  in  them  the  whole  Romantic  heritage — 
theatrical  gestures  and  attitudes,  readily  oratorical  vehemences.  Their 
sentiments  are  little  varied.  The  consciousness  of  the  mortal  menace 
hovering  over  love  and  an  inflexible  proud  elevation  form  their  monoto¬ 
nous  refrain.  It  is  the  same  with  the  prose  poems,  even  that  garrulous 


54  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Amaidee,  written  before  1840  and  published  by  Bourget  in  1889, 
which  deserves  to  live  only  because  of  the  characteristic  note  which 
Barbey  then  added :  “When  he  wrote  these  pages,  the  author  was  en¬ 
tirely  ignorant  of  life.  His  soul  deeply  intoxicated  by  his  reading  and 
his  dreams,  he  asked  of  human  pride  what  he  has  since  learned  two 
poor  pieces  of  wood  in  the  form  of  a  cross  alone  can  give  and  give 
eternally.” 

Whatever  the  merits  of  Une  Vieille  Maitresse,  of  L’Ensorcelee,  of 
Le  Chevalier  Destouches  and  of  Les  Diaboliques,  it  is  not  in  fiction  that 
Barbey  d’Aurevilly  excels.  He  took  up  a  position  the  reverse  of  Real¬ 
ism:  “What  matters,”  he  wrote  in  the  preface  to  L’Ensorcelee,  “the 
exact,  stippled  truth,  meticulous  as  to  facts,  provided  the  horizons 
are  visible  1”  Unfortunately,  if  he  freed  himself  from  the  preoccupa¬ 
tions  of  a  servile  copy  of  reality,  he  is  none  the  less  prisoner  of  certain 
personal  prejudices.  First  of  all  there  is  a  scornful  hatred  for 
“the  terrible  movement  of  modern  thought.”  In  his  novels  the  satire 
hurts  the  narrative  without  daring  fully  to  take  its  place.  His 
militant  Catholicism  produces  another  rupture  in  the  artistic  balance 
between  the  author  and  his  work.  No  doubt  he  strove  to  be  impartial 
and  complete :  “The  author  has  made  use  of  that  great  Catholic 
breadth  which  does  not  fear  to  touch  human  passions  when  the  aim  is 
to  instil  dread  of  their  consequences” ;  but  with  him,  as  with  Baudelaire, 
the  imagination  was  chiefly  stimulated  by  the  Satanic  side  which  is  the 
shadow  of  the  pure  Christian  light.  It  is  easy  to  understand  the 
fascination  of  orthodoxy  conceived  as  a  narrow  road  to  left  and  right 
of  which  lie  in  wait  for  us  all  the  sins,  among  them  the  demon  of  pride, 
so  alluring  to  lofty  natures.  Nevertheless,  this  attitude  which  lends 
so  acrid  an  after-taste  to  the  songs  of  the  poet,  does  not  fail  to  give 
a  certain  monotony  to  the  creations  of  the  novelist.  Barbey  finally 
undertook  to  rehabilitate  the  Chouans  of  the  Cotentin ;  but  here  history 
intervenes  less  as  a  psychological  explanation  of  the  characters  than 
as  a  pretext  for  oratorical  periods:.  “While  the  Vendeans,  those 
warriors  of  the  great  race,  sleep,  tranquil  and  immortal,  under  the 
praise  of  Napoleon,  and  can  wait,  covered  by  such  an  epitaph,  for  the 
historian  who  has  not  yet  come,  the  Chouans,  those  guerrillas,  have 
nothing  to  draw  them  from  obscurity  and  to  preserve  them  from  insult.” 
Weighed  down  by  so  many  after  thoughts,  the  narrative  rarely  becomes 
animated  save  in  the  tragic  passages  where  such  mysterious  heroes  as 
the  Chevalier  Destouches,  M.  Jacques  and  the  Abbe  de  la  Croix- Jugan 
are  able  to  bring  into  play  all  their  Byronic  corsair  violence.  Else¬ 
where  it  is  only  too  manifest  that  the  personality  of  the  writer  stifles 
the  life  of  the  work. 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  55 

Those  who  knew  Barbey  agree  he  was  a  wonderful  talker:  “He 
can  not  only  speak,”  said  Paul  Bourget,  “but  he  has  style  in  speak¬ 
ing,  and  metaphor  and  poetry.”  The  spell  under  which  he  held 
his  hearers  Barbey  d’Aurevilly  still  exerts  over  the  readers  of  his 
critical  and  analytical  works  from  which  it  has  been  possible  to 
extract  a  brilliant  anthology  under  the  title  of  L’Esprit  de  Barbey 
d’Aurevilly.  Here  there  is  no  longer  any  obstacle  between  the 
author  and  his  public.  He  gives  himself  to  us  in  his  proud  humility : 
“A  man  who  writes  must  make  up  his  mind  manfully  and  silently  to  be 
misjudged.  In  defending  one’s  own  thought,  one  always  defends  one’s 
vanity,  and  that  is  inferior.  Through  it  man  loses  his  pride.”  For 
Barbey  there  was  nothing  more  legitimate  than  this  distinction  between 
vanity  and  pride.  He  lives  again  under  our  eyes  in  this  dual  ideal  of 
monk  and  of  warrior  explaining  his  admiration  for  Bossuet,  who 
“turns  his  violet  cassock  up  to  his  knees  and  marches  with  military 
stride  through  all  his  narratives”  and  his  indulgence  for  Stendhal  who 
“had  kept  in  his  thought  something  or  other  of  the  soldier.”  As  to  the 
brilliant  talker,  we  seem  to  hear  his  voice  in  the  pages  devoted  to  Brum- 
mel  or  to  Mme.  de  Sevigne,  “Elmire  and  Celimene”  curiously  blended. 

In  addition,  this  part  of  his  work  remains  a  precious  testimony  as  to 
his  epoch.  No  doubt  here  again  his  personal  prejudices  play  an  im¬ 
portant  part,  and  he  despises  this  age  “one  end  of  which  plunges  into 
atheism,  the  other  into  a  weakened  Christianity” ;  but  his  own  Catholi¬ 
cism  does  not  rob  him  of  any  clearsightedness.  With  fine  perception 
he  notes,  speaking  of  Schopenhauer,  that  “it  would  certainly  have 
served  him  better  to  have  read  Chamfort  than  to  have  meditated  Kant.” 
Sometimes,  even,  religion  sharpens  a  prophetic  vision  in  him.  In  1884, 
after  A  rebours,  he  offered  Huysmans,  as  formerly  Baudelaire,  the 
dilemma  of  pistol  and  cross.  His  hatred  of  Realism  was  not  devoid 
of  extremely  just  differentiations.  He  knew  and  said:  “The  Gon- 
courts  are  writers  only  through  sheer  lust  to  turn  a  brilliant  sentence 
no  matter  upon  what.”  All  the  weight  of  his  brutal  attacks  he  re¬ 
served  for  Zola,  “that  soiled  Hercules  who  rakes  up  the  dung  of  Augias 
and  adds  to  it.”  As  early  as  1877,  he  announces  the  death  of  Natural¬ 
ism  through  exhaustion.  For  “what  step  of  infamy  and  of  filth  re¬ 
mains  to  be  descended?”  .  .  .  “Mud  is  not  infinite.”  To  this  defeat  of 
Naturalism  his  books  and  his  personal  influence  largely  contributed. 

2.  IDEALISM.  VILEIERS  DE  E’iSLE-ADAM 

A  militant  idealism,  far  removed  from  the  sham,  insipid  idealism  of 
Octave  Feuillet’s  novels — such  is  also  the  dominant  trait  of  Yilliers  de 
L’Isle-Adam’s  works;  but  here,  however  attractive  the  figure  of  the 


56  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

writer,  his  production  deserves  to  remain  in  the  foreground,  its  author’s 
personal  tastes  being  retained  only  as  a  thread  permitting  a  more  liv¬ 
ing  study  of  these  luxuriant,  harmonious  books. 

Seen  with  the  perspective  afforded  by  the  passing  of  thirty  years, 
Villiers’  work  presents  itself  then  as  an  ample  symphony  a  few  easily 
discernible  motives  of  which  ensure  the  supple  unity.  For  they  them¬ 
selves  all  derive  from  a  unique  and  fundamental  concord  which — strip¬ 
ping  it  for  an  instant  of  its  multiple  power  of  sonorous  creations — the 
critic  might  formulate  in  these  three  affirmations:  Breton,  gentle¬ 
man  and  Catholic. 

The  last  two  terms  of  this  definition  eliminate  the  memory  of  the 
Breton  Renan  with  whom  Villiers,  in  fact,  shares  only  the  love  of  soar¬ 
ing  revery.  They  permit  a  comparison  with  Chateaubriand  of  whom 
Villiers  is  truly  the  successor.  Their  differences  are  sufficiently  justi¬ 
fied  by  the  unfolding  between  them  of  the  Romanticism  of  which  one 
was  the  first,  the  other  the  last  great  prose-writer — a  haughty,  dis¬ 
abused  Romanticism  which  is,  perhaps,  merely  a  borrowed  attitude 
for  Chateaubriand  but  which  penetrated  Villiers’  soul — an  ideal  to 
which  he  lent  all  the  refinement  of  his  genius  before  burying  it  under 
the  crypts  at  Auersperg. 

He  himself  came  victorious  out  of  this  temptation,  saved  by  his 
faith.  It  is  possible  to  question  Chateaubriand’s  Catholicism.  Vil¬ 
liers’  is  inexpugnable.  He  has  meditated  the  archdeacon’s  words  in 
Axel:  “I  believe  her  to  be  endowed  with  that  terrible  gift,  intelligence. 
Then  let  her  tremble,  unless  she  becomes  a  saint.  Revery  has  lost  so 
many  souls.”  The  sin  of  pride  can  strike  with  sterility  the  work  the 
most  fertile  in  its  origin.  His  religion  protects  it  from  this.  It  places 
a  mystic  certitude  at  the  centre  of  his  aspirations.  It  keeps  human  a 
satire  of  the  modern  world  which  would  have  risked  becoming  extremely 
monotonous. 

Villiers  detested  with  all  his  might  the  ambient  universe  where  neither 
the  ideals  he  served  nor  he  himself  found  the  place  due  them.  He 
had  preserved  a  very  lively  sense  of  his  nobility  and  proudly  in¬ 
sisted  upon  his  quality  of  “gentleman,”  sometimes  in  the  mystic  silence 
of  his  Axel,  sometimes  after  the  fashion  of  Commander  Kaspar  who 
“pronounces  this  word  on  almost  every  possible  occasion,  like  a 
bourgeois.”  Now  the  practical,  sceptical,  democratic  society  in  which 
he  lived  embodied  precisely  the  apparent  triumph  of  what  he  regarded 
as  “Null.”  It  is  easy  to  conceive  his  having  jeered  at  it  mercilessly  as 
soon  as  he  had  found  his  original  note.  His  first  poems,  in  spite  of  the 
sincerity  of  their  Christian  appeal,  were,  with  their  mottos  taken  from 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  57 

Shakespeare  and  from  Faust,  merely  clever  imitations  of  Musset, 
and  Lamartine.  Verse  lent  itself  neither  to  the  great  flights 
nor  to  the  sharp,  distilled  vengeances  meditated  by  him.  He  created 
his  own  instrument,  a  poetic  prose  whose  music  has  alternately  a  mar- 
morean  hardness  and  the  caress  of  falling  rose-leaves.  An  ironist,  he 
cast  the  full  weight  of  those  grave  periods,  heavy  as  feudal  lances, 
against  contemporary  vices.  He  aimed  sumptuous  ridicule  at  the  be¬ 
lief  in  equality  and  in  general  talent.  He  showed,  with  tragic  humour, 
“of  what  atrocious  sadness  modern  laughter  is  made.”  He  stig¬ 
matized  “modern  sentimentality”  at  length,  never  ceasing  to  lash  “a 
species  in  which  the  weakening  of  every  belief,  of  every  disinterested  en¬ 
thusiasm,  of  every  noble  or  sacred  love,  threatens  to  become  endemic.” 
As  in  the  lists,  his  argumentative  Romanticism  tilted  against  “all  the 
intellectual  tinsel  of  science,”  claimed  by  the  eternal  Philistines  as  their 
own.  His  hatreds  he  embodied  in  what  he  defined  as  “an  enormous, 
sombre  buffoonery,  matching  the  century.”  Tribulat  Bonhomet  whose 
hero,  professeur  agrege  of  physiology,  kills  swans  to  hear  their  death- 
song,  is  “one  of  those  elect  of  life”  who  feel  “their  body  lightened,  their 
mind  eclectic,  their  heart  forever  free,  their  convictions  contingent — 
and  their  conscience  vacant.”  Doubtless  in  this  portrait  of  “the  arche¬ 
type  of  his  century,”  the  stroke  is  at  times  too  insistent.  Villiers  is 
carried  away.  One  notes  that  in  the  English  literature  he  loved 
he  appreciated  Byron’s  rhetoric  and  invectives  rather  than  Shelly’s 
pure  lyricism ;  but  often,  in  the  Contes,  in  Les  Demoiselles  de  Bienfildtre 
or  L’ Amour  sublime,  the  irony  proceeds  by  insinuations,  the  art  be¬ 
comes  finer  and  the  invisible  arrow,  detected  only  by  its  indignant  vi¬ 
bration,  strikes  the  adversary  full  in  the  heart. 

This  is  merely  the  negative  aspect  of  Villiers’  genius.  If  he  de¬ 
stroys,  it  is  in  the  name  of  a  construction.  He  denies  alleged  reality 
because  he  believes  in  all  that  is  incorporeal.  Accustomed  to  the  mys¬ 
terious  regions  where  habitual  intercourse  loosens  those  concatenations 
which  are  adamantine  for  their  dupes  alone,  a  truly  Catholic  imagina¬ 
tion  disports  itself  with  ease  in  the  unexplained.  It  is  not  necessary  to 
invoke  Poe’s  influence  to  explain  the  fascination  for  Villiers  of  certain 
strange  or  gruesome  subjects,  of  the  exploration  of  the  singular  phe¬ 
nomena  arising  in  the  vague  mist  on  the  confines  of  the  known  world. 
The  enigmatic  Claire  Lenoir  and  numerous  stories  are  thus  inspired. 
His  position  in  this  particular  has  been  exactly  defined  by  Villiers  in 
one  of  the  stories  in  U Amour  supreme:  “I  speak  here  exclusively  from 
the  point  of  view  of  Christian  faith,  recognizing  moreover  the  value 
of  no  other  point  of  view  either  in  this  question  or  in  any  other” ;  but 


58  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

he  also  considered  that  Catholicism  should  not  fear  to  follow  science 
on  the  strangest  grounds  where  it  may  please  to  venture.  Thus  did  he 
justify  intellectually  his  taste  for  occultism  or  for  phenomena  of  the 
transmission  of  personality.  L’Eve  future  is  the  most  imposing  evi¬ 
dence  of  this  effort.  “I  interpret,”  he  says  in  his  preface,  “a  modern 
legend  in  the  interest  of  the  work  of  metaphysical  art  of  which  I  have 
conceived  the  idea.”  One  of  the  heroines,  Alicia — an  example  of  the 
non-correspondence  of  the  physical  and  the  intellectual — “is  afflicted 
with  that  so-called  contemptible  negative  good  sense  which  simply 
narrows  everything.”  Edison  undertakes  “to  remove  the  soul  from 
this  body,”  “to  print  a  second  proof  of  the  living”  incarnated  in  the 
automaton  Halady.  Here  Yilliers  utilizes  the  progress  of  that  very 
science  the  vanity  of  which  he  has  so  often  denounced ;  and  suddenly, 
by  one  of  those  turns  where  genius  declares  itself  by  signifying  more 
than  it  says,  he  pays  homage  to  his  enemy’s  splendour:  “You  have,” 
says  Ewald  to  Edison,  “a  kind  of  Positivism  capable  of  putting  the 
imagination  of  the  Arabian  Nights  into  the  shade.” 

For  Yilliers  denied  himself  none  of  the  paths  leading  to  freedom. 
Doubtless  allowance  must  be  made,  in  his  numerous  stories,  for  what¬ 
ever  has  already  aged,  such  as  simple  travel  notes,  momentary  parodies, 
polemics  on  current  events.  Certain  stories  which  are  simply  cruel  or 
unusual  may  be  neglected.  Even  so,  enough  are  left  which  remain  un¬ 
questionably  superlative:  the  hallucination  of  Vera,  a  grandiose  fresco 
like  L’Impatience  de  la  joule,  a  delicate  analysis  of  pride  and  of 
spirituality  like  L’ Amour  supreme,  a  harmonious  symbol  in  L’ Aventure 
de  Tse-i-la.  Among  the  perfect  masterpieces  figure  forever  the  poetic 
tales  in  which  Villiers  has  realized  the  supreme  ideal  expressed  in  La 
Maison  du  bonlieur:  “Oh!  to  withdraw  into  some  nuptial  abode,  to 
save  from  the  disaster  of  their  days  at  least  one  autumn,  one  delicious 
snatch  of  happiness,  of  adorably  faded  tints,  an  embellished  melan¬ 
choly.”  In  this  vein  no  tale  surpasses  Akedysseril  where,  in  a  magical 
setting,  amid  all  the  magnificences  of  pride,  glory,  beauty  and  mystery, 
Villiers  sang  in  an  orchestral  prose  his  heart’s  deepest  desire :  to  tran¬ 
scend  life  and  to  be  fixed  by  death  in  the  sublime  attitude  of  love 
transport. 

In  every  romantic  writer  there  struggles  an  imprisoned  orator. 
Dramatic  form — more  exactly,  because  less  strictly,  dialogue  form — 
could  not  fail  to  attract  Villiers.  He  had  attempted  it  in  La  Revolte, 
a  haughty  vindication  in  exaltation  and  in  tears  of  the  imprescriptible 
rights  of  the  Dream — a  one-act  play  beside  which  the  whole  Ibsenian 
drama  seems  insipid.  He  returned  to  it  in  Le  Nouveau  Monde,  a  quite 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  59 

special  drama  because  of  the  very  conditions  of  the  competition,1  in 
which  however  several  of  his  favourite  themes  appear:  the  “literary 
conception”  of  Mistress  Andrews’  character,  the  sinisterly  fantastic 
legend  of  the  Evandales,  Lord  Cecil’s  eloquent  revery  in  the  last  act. 
As  early  as  1865  the  third  act  of  Elen  had  proved  what  dramatic  in¬ 
tensity  this  Hegelian  dreamer  could  achieve ;  but  everything  disappears 
in  the  radiance  of  his  supreme  creation,  the  fairy-like  Axel. 

Axel  is  not  only  Villiers  de  l’Isle-Adam’s  most  characteristic  and 
complete  work.  It  is  also  the  last  expression  of  European  Romanti¬ 
cism,  the  Faust  of  the  expiring  nineteenth  century.  However,  between 
Goethe  and  Villiers,  Wagner  has  intervened.  Many  a  passage  in  the 
Contes  shows  how  much  the  great  musician’s  triumph  had  appealed  to 
Villiers’  imagination.  Wagner,  whose  tenacious  will  had  broken  down 
all  obstacles  and  conquered  his  Beyreuth,  represented  the  artist’s  re¬ 
venge  on  a  world  hostile  to  art.  The  gigantic  proportions  of  the 
works  which  provoked  the  enthusiastic  exodus  of  pilgrims  towards  his 
Bavarian  shrine,  emphasized  still  further  the  scope  of  such  a  victory. 
Axel  keeps  a  gleam  of  this  inspiration.  Axel  and  Sara,  having  like  the 
heroes  of  the  Tetralogy  undergone  the  ordeal  of  love  and  of  gold, 
die,  as  Tristan  and  Isolde  would  die  if  they  dared  render  eternal  their 
ecstasy  in  the  second  act ;  but  in  his  esoteric  masterpiece  Villiers  is 
not  crushed  by  this  comparison  with  the  master  of  philter  and  ring. 
His  wTork  remains  intensely  personal.  The  antithesis  between  Axel 
who  embodies  all  he  loves  and  Kaspar  in  whom  all  he  detests  lives 
again,  the  parallelism  confronting  the  hero  and  the  heroine  who  re¬ 
nounce,  the  ineffable  serenity  of  the  final  scene  where  the  lovers, 
freed  from  their  corporeal  vestments,  recover  their  souls  which  are  but 
one  soul,  purified — these  motifs  of  the  supreme  symphony,  a  glorifica¬ 
tion  of  the  Dream  to  such  a  degree  that  the  mind  is  unable  to  decide 
whether  it  be  “inhuman  or  superhuman,”  have  been  heard  ringing 
throughout  Villiers’  work.  If  at  times  they  seem  new,  they  owe  this 
privilege  to  the  final  form  in  which  the  poet  has  clothed  them:  “On 
your  face,  ever  pale,  shines  the  reflection  of  some  ancient  pride  .  .  . 
You  will  be  the  bitter  fiancee  of  this  nuptial  eve.  .  .  .  The  years  are 
breezes  and  we  are  the  leaves  they  bear  away  .  .  .  Cinders,  I  am  the 
eve  of  what  you  are.  .  .  .”  Magnificent  harmonies  communicating  to 
the  soul  a  sacred  vibration  as  intoxicating  as  Wagner’s  most  perfect 
pages.  We  know  that  Villiers  felt  doubts  as  to  the  ending  of  Axel, 
fearing  it  would  not  satisfy  the  orthodox  mind.  Whether  or  not  these 
conscientious  scruples  are  justified,  from  the  point  of  view  of  Art  such 
i  New  York  Herald  prize  contest.  Tr. 


60  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

a  finale  is  a  worthy  crown  for  the  work  of  him  who  wrote :  “I  deign 
to  punish  the  gulfs — with  my  wings  alone.” 

3.  THE  PSYCHOLOGICAL,  NOVEL.  PAUL  BOURGET 

Paul  Bourget’s  literary  evolution  has  proceeded  with  that  conscien¬ 
tious  regularity  which  is  observed  in  each  of  his  books.  A  mind  open  to 
multiple  influences  but  preoccupied  with  order  and  clearness,  his 
analysis  has  ever  aspired  to  follow  the  thoughts  of  his  chosen 
masters  to  their  last  systematic  consequences.  His  work  has  always, 
more  or  less  openly,  involved  a  didactic  element.  His  reward  was  seeing 
himself  considered,  at  two  stages  of  his  development,  the  guide  of  a 
part  of  French  opinion,  without  even  those  who  refused  to  follow  him 
ever  questioning  the  honesty  of  his  intention. 

Paul  Bourget  began  with  several  volumes  of  verse  influenced  by  Mus¬ 
set,  Baudelaire  and  the  idea  of  the  English  Lake  poets  current  about 
1875.  Their  poetic  value  is  rather  slight,  their  psychological  interest 
very  great.  Bourget  strove  to  reconcile  his  admiration  for  Byron’s 
and  Barbey  d’Aurevilly’s  flamboyant  style  with  his  personal  taste  for 
minute  analysis  applied  to  modern  life.  The  titles  of  the  first  two  vol¬ 
umes — Au  Bord  de  la  mer  and  La  Vie  inquiete — sum  up  fairly  well  this 
duality,  his  desire  to  discover,  beneath  the  most  factitious  social  life  a 
profound  psychological  basis — a  task  of  disentanglement  for  which  the 
poem  is  ill  suited.  Thus  Edel  is  already  a  sort  of  novel.  Verse  has 
been  for  Bourget  little  more  than  a  means  of  making  clear  through 
rhythmical  distinctness  his  conclusions  as  to  the  state  of  mind  of  his 
generation  making  its  start.  He  pursued  this  research  in  the  form  of 
critical  studies.  His  Essais  de  psychologie  contemporaine  inaugurated 
a  series  of  works  of  research  and  of  readjustment  forming  a  con¬ 
tinuous  chain  in  his  total  production  parallel  to  that  of  the  novels  and 
the  stories.  Theoretical  discussions  and  fictions  find  common  ground 
in  the  unity  of  a  doctrine  which  gives  this  French  work  the  air,  familiar 
to  English  writers,  of  a  “criticism  of  life.”  From  his  first  essays, 
Bourget  establishes  his  attitude  towards  the  masters  of  contemporary 
youth.  In  studying  them  he  defines  himself  with  the  three  essential 
influences  which  have  acted  upon  him — which  have  determined,  by  op¬ 
posing  or  uniting,  the  curve  of  his  development:  Baudelaire  whose  re¬ 
fined  disquietude  and  mystical  aspirations  he  over-emphasizes ;  Stendhal, 
the  precursor  of  the  most  profound  psychological  analyses ;  finally 
Taine,  representative  of  a  Positivism  fed  with  facts  and  ambitious  of 
large  constructive  syntheses.  Bourget  will  have  to  deny  nothing  of 
this  triple  education  in  order  to  present  himself  successively  as  a  psy¬ 
chological  novelist,  a  social,  Catholic  and  conservative  novelist. 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  61 

Bourget’s  first  novels  show  him  in  search  of  his  personal  expression. 
He  chose  the  novel,  as  he  writes  to  the  subtle  Henry  James,  because  this 
art  is  the  most  modern  of  all,  the  most  flexible,  the  most  capable  of 
accommodating  itself  to  the  various  necessities  of  each  human  nature,” 
adding  that  “the  laws  imposed  upon  the  novelist  by  the  various 
aesthetic  systems  reduce  themselves  finally  to  one :  give  a  personal  im¬ 
pression  of  Life.”  Cruelle  Enigme,  however,  does  not  entirely  fulfil 
the  object  assigned  by  this  preface.  In  spite  of  certain  delicate  shades 
in  the  observation,  this  social  psychology  lacks  originality,  seems  rather 
an  ingenious  exercise  than  a  necessity  of  the  human  heart.  Likewise 
Profits  perdus  which  represents  “the  indefinite,  that  is  to  say  the 
possible,  that  is  to  say  the  reparation  of  sad  reality,”  and  Crime 
d' Amour  and  Mensonges  have  given  some  grounds  for  the  conventional 
image  of  a  snobbish  Bourget,  eager  first  of  all  to  find  favour  with  an 
elegant  public.  Against  this  affectation,  Andre  Cornells,  “a  moral 
anatomy  chart,”  reacted  with  an  excessive  rigour.  The  affectation  of 
transplanting  Hamlet’s  drama  to  a  contemporary  setting  in  order  to 
study  it  under  a  magnifying-glass,  with  a  show  of  puerile  science,  gave 
an  arbitrary  air  to  the  work  which  it  was  easy  to  laugh  at. 

From  this  period  of  groping  Bourget  emerged  definitely  with  the 
first  of  his  big  novels,  Le  Disciple.  This  book  has  been  bitterly  dis¬ 
cussed,  certain  of  Bourget’s  present  admirers  not  having  been  the  least 
ardent  in  reproaching  him  with  it.  It  remains  representative  however 
— as  indispensable  as  L’Etape  to  the  understanding  of  its  author.  It 
commands  a  crossroads  of  Bourget’s  thought,  summarizing  the  ideas 
which  had  been  preponderant  in  his  mind  for  twenty  years,  announcing 
those  which  were  henceforth  to  take  the  ascendancy.  The  preface  has 
the  grave  accent  of  a  moralist  upon  whom  rest  incalculable  responsibil¬ 
ities.  It  is  addressed  to  the  young  men  born  just  after  the  war,  whose 
confidence  and  love  the  writer  wished  to  merit.  On  the  threshold  of 
this  bold  novel  which  has  clumsily  been  accused  of  immorality  and  de¬ 
fiance,  Bourget  exhorts  his  young  brother  to  seriousness  and  idealism. 
He  denounces,  on  the  same  ground  of  national  perils,  universal  suffrage, 
the  “struggle  for  life”  and  delicate  nihilism — a  rather  confused  sermon 
by  an  orator  animated  with  a  sincere  goodwill,  who  does  not  however 
always  distinguish  between  the  essential  realities  and  the  transient 
manifestations  magnified  by  his  analysis.  It  is  important  to  stress 
this  profession  of  faith  which  permits  us  to  see  fully  the  absolute  hon¬ 
esty  which  is  Bourget’s  highest  characteristic,  and  also  his  tendency  to 
build  upon  fragile  foundations — upon  artificial  juxtapositions — the 
edifice  in  which  he  will  enclose  a  man,  a  whole  society  even. 

The  story  confirms  this  impression  of  uneasiness.  The  two  principal 


62 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


figures — that  of  the  modern  philosopher,  Adrien  Sixte  (who  is  a  novel¬ 
ized  Taine),  and  of  his  disciple,  Robert  Grelou,  are  studied  with  an 
abundance  and  a  perseverance  heavy  at  times  but  in  the  long  run  pow¬ 
erful  and  effective,  with  this  reserve  that  the  reader  cannot  make  out 
whether  these  persons  live  by  their  own  will  or  by  the  obstinate  will  of 
the  writer.  It  is  the  same  with  the  very  exceptional  psychological  con¬ 
flict  which  makes  one  doubt  whether  it  presents  the  crucial  significance 
attributed  to  it  by  the  author.  The  work  lacks  balance.  Bourget’s 
indulgence  for  the  aristocratic  circles  he  describes  renders  a  trifle 
insipid  the  counter-revolutionary  theories  which  he  borrowed  from 
Taine  and  which  are  not  at  all  improved  by  being  despoiled  of  the  com¬ 
bative  life  given  them  by  the  atmosphere  of  the  Ancien  Regime.  In  his 
distortion  of  the  principles  of  the  modern  Spinoza,  the  “disciple”  shows 
himself  either  too  ingenious  or  too  simple  to  satisfy  anyone,  whether  the 
partisans  or  the  adversaries  of  the  philosopher.  Le  Disciple  already 
manifests  the  co-existence  in  Bourget  of  a  sympathetic  effort  loyally  to 
apprehend  the  thought  of  his  contradictors  and  of  a  fundamental  in¬ 
capacity  to  succeed  totally. 

Le  Disciple  ends  on  an  appeal  which,  beneath  its  hypothetical  ap¬ 
pearance,  already  affirms  a  faith:  “You  would  not  seek  me  had  you  < 
not  found  me.”  Bourget  cites  Pascal’s  phrase  which  he  declares  ad¬ 
mirable  and  which  is  doubly  so  since  it  explains  at  one  and  the  same 
time  that,  to  those  who  are  already  convinced,  everything  is  ground 
for  conviction  and  that  those  who  have  not  yet  found  anything  do  not 
set  out  to  seek  it.  He  himself  frightened  at  the  possible  conse¬ 
quences  of  the  Positivism  he  had  described — and  partly  imagined — 
sees  sure  help  only  in  return  to  the  Christian  religion  which  he  al-  , 
ready  associates  with  the  ideas  of  order  and  hierarchy.  Soon,  with 
Cosmopolis,  he  seemed  to  return  to  his  first  novels  of  worldly  psy¬ 
chology.  It  was  in  appearance  only.  In  his  mind  continued  the  work 
which  was  to  conduct  him  to  the  doctrinairism  of  L’Etape.  For  if 
the  clearness  of  the  exposition  forces  us  to  distinguish  in  time,  two 
Bourgets,  there  has  really  been,  in  living  duration,  but  a  single  thought 
evolving  towards  its  appointed  abode. 

4.  MAURICE  BARRES  AND  LE  GXJLTE  D V  KOI 

“I  owe  everything  to  that  superior  logic  of  a  tree  seeking  the  light 
and  yielding  with  perfect  sincerity  to  its  inner  necessity.”  Thus  did 
Barres  proudly  decline  the  praises  of  those  who  congratulated  the 
author  of  Le  Culte  du  Moi  on  having  evolved  into  the  author  of  Le 
Roman  de  VEnergie  nationale.  Nevertheless,  in  the  work  of  self- 
examination  to  which  he  had  submitted  himself,  Barres,  still  replying 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  63 

to  Rene  Doumic,  distinguished  two  moments :  “Having  thought  out  at 
great  length  the  idea  of  the  ‘ego,’  with  no  other  method  than  that  of 
the  poets  and  mystics,  I  descended  among  shifting  sands  till  I  found  at 
the  bottom  collectivity  as  a  support.”  If  it  be  added  that  this  search 
coincided  with  a  crisis  of  the  French  conscience  which  precipitated  at 
least  the  explicit  assertion  of  the  second  truth  discovered  by  Barres, 
one  will  have  the  right  to  study  successively  in  him,  according  to  the 
order  in  which  they  were  revealed,  the  individualist  and  the  nationalist. 

“I  have  never  written  but  one  book,  Un  Homme  libre ;  and,  at  the 
age  of  twenty-four,  I  indicated  in  it  all  I  have  since  developed.” 

Barres  took  over  from  it  ideas  already  expressed,  since  Un  Homme 
libre  is  the  second  of  the  impassioned  ideologies  composing  the  trilogy 
Le  Cvlte  du  Moi.  This  ambiguous  title  has  won  the  writer  adhesions, 
attacks  and  parodies  often  unjustified  formally,  yet  almost  always 
significant,  for  they  reflected  the  instinctive  reactions  of  a  human  con¬ 
science  confronted  with  another  conscience  intimately  unveiled.  Reso¬ 
lutely  egoistical,  Maurice  Barres  knew  the  proud  satisfaction  of 
being  worshipped  or  hated  without  rational  reason,  according  to  the 
attraction  or  the  irritation  which  his  idealized  confessions  have  aroused 
in  each  reader.  Yet  these  books  of  the  first  Barres  reserve  the  keenest 
enjoyment  for  those  who  approach  them  in  the  same  spirit,  without 
concealing  anything  of  their  pride  and  without  underestimating  their 
own  capacity  for  comprehension. 

Sous  Vasil  des  Barbares  relates  the  violent  birth  of  a  personality: 
“The  whole  book  is  Philippe’s  struggle  to  maintain  himself  among  the 
barbarians  who  wish  to  bend  him  to  their  image.”  The  ego  is  the  one 
reality,  since  it  creates  the  universe.  Whosoever  opposes  the  free 
growth  of  a  being  is  unpardonable.  To  the  ego  which  seeks  itself  all 
weapons  are  permitted,  scorn  being  the  most  effective.  Is  this  the 
assertion  of  an  unrestrained  individualism?  No,  for  this  right  really 
to  live  involves  a  sacred  duty.  There  is  an  imperious  necessity  to  find 
oneself.  The  generation  of  which  Barres  was  the  spokesman  rebels 
against  the  pseudo-scientific  idea  that  thinking  can  be  done  wholesale 
and  collectively.  Each  must  show  himself  irreducible  to  the  rest.  The 
hero  of  Sous  Vceil  des  Barbares  does  not  yet  succeed  in  reconciling  ac¬ 
tion,  his  desire  for  ideology  and  his  taste  for  “feeling  the  pulse  of  the 
emotions.”  His  individualism  has  no  intention  of  being  anarchy.  He 
aims  at  Goethe’s  serenity.  He  rarely  attains  these  heights.  He 
weakens,  loses  his  footing,  acknowledges  his  fatigue,  his  fear.  At 
times  he  seems  about  to  founder  in  that  dilettante  nihilism,  probably 
the  one  temptation  which  seriously  threatened  Barres’  thought. 
He  capitulates  in  silence:  “Would  our  words,  which  are  imprints  of 


64 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


efforts,  evoke  the  furtive  felicity  of  this  soul  in  dissolution,  happy  be¬ 
cause  it  feels  as  little  as  possible  only?” 

This  was  but  coquetry.  Barres  always  felt  sufficiently  sure  of 
his  power  to  appreciate  the  charm  of  evoking  in  his  work  the  lives 
which  disintegrate— the  persistent  trait  of  an  unfalteringly  curious 
intelligence  spurring  on  a  somewhat  limited  sensibility.  Barres  strove, 
Ujn  each  of  his  epochs,  to  keep  the  balance  between  what  he  owed 
his  inflexible  doctrine  and  what  he  owed  the  flexibility  of  life.  In 
1904,  adding  a  preface  to  his  Homme  libre,  he  judged  it  thus :  “I  have 
sinned  against  my  thought  through  excess  of  scruple.  I  feared  to 
introduce  my  didacticism  to  supplement  the  facts.  In  1890,  I  felt  my 
abundance,  I  did  not  possess  myself  as  an  intelligible,  limited  being” 
— declarations  which  are  contradictory  in  appearance  only,  didacti¬ 
cism  being  with  him  a  spontaneous  movement,  the  true  sensibility  of 
this  intelligence.  L’Homme  libre  maintains  the  ground  conquered: 
“It  is  by  loving  myself  infinitely,  it  is  by  embracing  myself  that  I  shall 
embrace  things  and  rebuild  them  according  to  my  dream.”  The  free 
man  has  defined  his  aim:  “To  feel  the  most  possible.”  He  will  reach 
it  by  a  discipline.  He  seeks  this  discipline  in  spiritual  retreats,  in 
meditations — real  exercises  of  intellectual  asceticism  in  which  he  is 
sustained  by  his  intercessors:  Loyola,  the  master  psychologist; 
Constant,  “dilettante  and  fanatic”;  the  Sainte-Beuve  of  Volupte.  He 
wants  to  understand  Lorraine  and  feel  Venice  which  will,  one  after  the 
other,  yield  him  the  keys  of  his  “ego”  to  which  he  lays  siege. 

In  his  certainty  of  victory  he  accords  himself  the  vacation  of  a 
feigned  dispersion.  In  reality  he  touches  nothing  which  does  not  bring 
him  back  to  the  conquest  of  his  egoism.  By  comparing  himself  with 
his  different  masters,  from  Disraeli  to  Renan,  he  fortifies  himself.  He 
grows  with  all  the  results  obtained  by  his  friends — Guaita’s  mysticism, 
Jules  Tellier’s  eloquence,  Bourget’s  analyses.  “A  force  had  amassed 
itself  in  me,”  he  says  on  the  threshold  of  Le  Jardin  de  Berenice,  “of 
which  I  knew  only  the  discomfort  it  caused” — an  uneasiness  announc¬ 
ing  a  liberation  near  at  hand.  Philippe  expends  this  force  in  political 
activity  tinged  with  idealism  and  melancholy  sensuality.  He  accords 
himself  another  retreat  in  Aigues-Mortes,  a  town  chosen  for  “its  con¬ 
sonance  with  an  incomparable  desolation.”  There,  at  the  top  of  the 
Constance  tower,  between  Berenice,  tender,  fragile  dreamer,  and  his 
electoral  rival,  the  sectarian  and  specialist  Adversary,  he  recovers,  in 
its  distinctness,  “the  idea  of  tradition,  of  unity  in  succession.”  “Bere¬ 
nice’s  pedagogy”  leads  him  definitively  to  refined  pity.  His  contact 
with  the  people  helps  him  to  take  the  last  step  and  reveals  him  human¬ 
ity.  The  voyage  of  exploration  is  over.  Seneca  the  egoist,  despite 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  65 

all  his  sympathy  for  Lazarus  the  fanatic,  chooses  to  serve  mankind  and 
himself  in  the  refuge  his  comfortable  income  affords  him  while  await¬ 
ing  “the  organization  of  something  analogous  to  the  religious  orders 
which,  born  spontaneously  of  the  same  oppression  we  have  described  in 
Sous  V ceil  des  Barbares,  were  the  place  where  the  practical  rules  for 
becoming  Un  Homme  libre  were  formerly  elaborated,  and  where  took 
shape  that  admirable  vision  of  the  divine  in  the  world  which,  under  the 
more  modern  name  of  unconsciousness,  Philippe  recovered  in  Le  Jardin 
de  Berenice.” 

L’Ennemi  des  lois  sums  up  these  experiences  in  the  form  “of  a  senti¬ 
mental  note-book,  not  of  a  manual.”  If  at  times  it  seems  to  indicate 
a  step  backwards,  it  is  because  Barres  goes  over  the  entire  ground 
anew.  The  progress  here  realized  is  above  all  of  a  literary  order. 
The  autobiography  no  longer  stifles  the  fiction.  With  all  its  harsh¬ 
ness  of  style  and  its  digressions,  L’Ennemi  des  lois  is  already  a  novel. 
Even  if  one  prefers  the  elusive  Berenice,  one  will  recognize  that  Marina 
and  Claire  are  no  longer  mere  feminine  pictures  of  their  author. 
Furthermore,  events  have  forced  the  Boulangist  depute  to  enlarge  his 
inquiry.  Cleverly  connecting  his  narrative  with  Bourget’s  Disciple,  he 
attempts  an  ample  synthesis  of  the  youth  of  the  day.  He  questions 
the  masters  of  sociology.  He  assimilates  the  artistic  dreams  of 
Wagner  and  Louis  II.  He  begins  his  flirtation  with  Catholicism — a 
voluptuous,  deferential  attitude,  without  submission,  which  it  pleases 
him  to  adopt  because  it  bears  witness  to  his  self-command.  Above  all 
he  develops  with  precision  his  form  as  a  writer.  He  creates  the  Barres 
style. 

Nothing  is  more  awkward  to  define  than  this  style,  if  one  attempts  to 
study  it  in  the  abstract.  Nothing  is  more  revealing  of  the  man  in  his 
work.  It  reflects  this  paradox  of  a  writer  for  whom  the  idea  is  an  ex¬ 
citant  to  feeling  and  for  whom  the  sensation  is  fully  enjoyed  only  with 
the  aid  of  the  intelligence,  so  that  its  reaction  is  complete  only  if  it  be 
double.  In  the  passages  where  the  concord  is  not  accomplished,  Bar- 
res’  phrase  retains  a  dryness  which  has  repelled  many  readers  and  which 
he  endeavours  in  vain  to  mask  beneath  an  air  of  proud  irony  or  of  im¬ 
pertinent  triviality.  Imagination  is  the  domain  in  which  his  intellectual 
sensibility  and  his  sensitive  intelligence  are  best  reconciled.  He  excels 
in  prolonging.  In  a  Saint-Simon  he  appreciates  “not  so  much  the 
quality  of  the  reasoning  as  the  richness  of  the  reveries.”  Ill  at  ease  in 
the  representation  of  pure  ideas  or  of  simple  movements  of  the  heart,  he 
triumphs  in  the  arbitrary,  in  a  picture  of  inhuman  fantasy  like  that 
which  terminates  L’Ennemi  des  lois:  “For  Marina,  Claire  and  Andre 
other  egos  exist  in  the  same  degree  as  theirs,  so  that  the  conditions  of 


66  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  happiness  of  others  combine  with  the  conditions  of  their  own.  They 
do  not  destroy  the  flowers  they  like  to  smell.  The  fact  they 
suffered  would  diminish  their  own  pleasure.  Their  refined  sensibility 
suppresses  all  immorality.” 

This  ease,  this  extreme  delicacy  are  the  qualities  he  keeps  in  the  por¬ 
trayal  of  sensuality.  ,He  detests  Naturalism  of  which  he  has  said: 
“Coarseness  was  mistaken  for  power,  obscenity  for  passion  and  pic¬ 
tures  in  false  perspective  for  pages  ‘teeming  with  life.’  ”  Nothing  is 
more  opposed  to  the  Stendhalian  tone  spontaneous  with  him  concerning 
things  of  the  flesh.  He  likes  a  woman  to  be  a  lovely  prey  and  com¬ 
placently  describes  the  magnificent  exotics,  like  Princess  Marina,  who, 
yielding  to  the  desires  of  the  senses,  offer  a  fabulous  booty  to  the 
imagination.  Pride,  and  Romanticism  as  well.  Beyond  Stendhal  an 
echo  of  Chateaubriand,  of  the  great  desenchante,  completes  the  sentence 
of  detached  analysis  in  veiled  poetry:  “In  the  libertine  tone  of  the 
narrative  he  discovered  the  flavours  of  passionate  melancholy.” 

Dealing  with  human  characters,  always  resistant  and  limited,  this 
romanticism  is  restrained.  In  the  presence  of  landscapes  it  spreads 
out  more  freely.  Du  Sang,  de  la  Volupte  et  de  la  Mort  is  the  first  of 
those  travel  narratives  in  which  Barres  yields  himself  more  completely 
in  taking  possession  of  a  place.  Already  he  shows  himself  master  of 
that  personal  music  whose  accents  will  be  found  again  in  the  books  of 
his  maturity — a  brief  antithetical  sentence  with  an  unforgettably  au¬ 
thoritative  ending:  “[Toledo]  is  not  so  much  of  a  town,  a  noisy  thing 
subdued  to  the  commodities  of  life,  as  a  place  significant  for  the  soul” 
— a  long  sentence  proudly  unfurled  which  dies  away  in  muffled  sonori¬ 
ties:  “For  him  who  possesses  the  secret  of  making  objects  talk,  Paris, 
stamped  with  the  imperial  seal  of  Balzac,  gives  lessons  of  will;  but 
Parma,  so  impregnated  with  Stendhal,  is  the  place  to  abandon  oneself 
to  the  worship  of  soul  sensations” — magic  cadences  by  which  it  would 
be  as  dangerous  to  allow  oneself  to  be  charmed  unwarily  as  it  would 
have  been  puerile  to  be  discouraged  by  the  didactic  severity  of 
L’Homme  libre.  Barres,  who  prepares  Les  Deracines  in  which  his 
dogmatism  will  be  stated,  will  rightly  deny  the  charge  of  having 
changed:  “I  did  not  hasten,”  he  says,  “to  uphold  the  altars  I  had 
shaken  but  to  uphold  the  altars  forming  the  pedestal  of  this  ego  to 
which  I  had  rendered  a  preliminary  and  necessary  worship.”  To  the 
very  stronghold  of  the  royal  emotions  his  intelligence  accords  his 
artistic  sensibility,  Barres  displays  magnificently  his  Romantic  in¬ 
capacity  to  escape  from  egoism  and  revives  with  a  delicate  hand 
the  subtle  pleasures  of  a  voluptuous  melancholy.  Amid  fluctuations 
the  importance  of  which  current  events  risk  exaggerating  for  us, 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  67 

there  was  indeed  but  one  Barres,  just  as  there  is  but  one  Bourget; 
but  perhaps  it  is  fitting  to  see  the  finished  picture  of  Bourget  in  Le 
Demon  de  Midi  which  dates  from  1914  and  that  of  Barres  in  the 
mixture  of  harsh  will  and  elusive  irony  which,  as  early  as  1891,  makes 
Le  Jardin  de  Berenice  a  precious  breviary  of  Barresism. 

5.  ANATOLE  FRANCE  AND  INTELLECTUAL  FANTASY 

Anatole  France  had  published  historical  and  critical  studies,  volumes 
of  poems  and  of  stories  when,  in  1881,  Le  Crime  de  Sylvestre  Bonnard 
made  him  famous.  His  period  of  apprenticeship  was)  over,  he  had 
a  “manner.”  From  his  scholarly  researches  he  retained  the  taste 
for  absolute  precision  which  excluded  the  approximation,  the!  semi¬ 
accuracy.  Jocaste  et  le  Chat  maigre  already  bore  witness  to  his  con¬ 
cern  for  a  story-telling  art  which  conceals  the  art  under  an  unruffled 
simplicity.  Les  Noces  Corinthiennes,  which  recalls — beyond  Leconte 
de  Lisle — Chenier’s  Greece,  showed,  in  a  limpid  form,  the  play  of  that 
characteristic  curiosity  seduced  by  the  beauty  of  dying  Paganism  as 
well  as  by  the  fervour  of  young  Christianity.  Equally  distant  from 
Romanticism  and  Naturalism,  Anatole  France  thus  embodied  the  most 
delicate  culture  of  European  humanism. 

In  Le  Crime  de  Sylvestre  Bonnard  and  in  Le  Livre  de  mon  Ami,  he 
appeared  with  a  smiling  good  humour  heightened,  under  an  archaic 
politeness,  by  an  alert  love  of  mischief.  Behind  the  universally  wel¬ 
coming  curiosity,  behind  the  amused  acceptance  of  his  own  humble  life 
which  he  lent  Pierre  Noziere,  it  was  easy  to  discern  a  refined  coquetry 
with  regard  to  all  the  riches  of  life  dominated  by  the  sovereignty  of  an 
infallible  taste.  He  waked  half-real  figures  and  took  pleasure  in  lead¬ 
ing  them  through  long,  sinuous  conversations  nourished  with  all  the 
classical  cultures,  passing  by  imperceptible  meanders  from  the  gravest 
to  the  most  futile  subjects  where  mourning  wore  a  rose,  where  jesting 
ended  in  quiet  emotion.  It  was  a  perpetual  enchantment.  He  smiled 
with  an  indulgence  which  Renan  had  known  only  at  the  close  of  a  long 
struggle,  at  the  price  of  a  sceptical  and  disillusionized  fatigue.  He 
narrated  with  the  ease  of  a  Voltaire,  freed  from  every  polemic,  having 
blunted  his  mocking  dart.  His  sobriety  did  not  exclude  fancy.  He 
desired  his  tapestry,  with  its  exquisitely  antiquated  colouring,  to  be  en¬ 
livened  by  some  bright  spots.  He  took  up  arms  in  defence  of  fairy¬ 
tales.  He  appealed  to  the  imagination:  “It  is  imagination,  with  its 
falsehoods,  which  is  the  sower  of  all  beauty  and  of  all  virtue  in  the 
world.  Through  it  alone  we  are  great.”  Endowed  with  intellectual 
curiosity,  accomplished  grace  of  expression,  who  better  than  he  could 
sum  up  this  philosophy? — “I  have  been  inclined  at  all  times  to  take  life 


68  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

as  a  spectacle.  I  have  never  been  a  true  observer.  For  observation 
needs  a  system  to  direct  it,  and  I  have  no  system.  The  observer  guides 
his  glance.  The  spectator  allows  himself  to  be  snared  by  his  eyes.  I 
was  born  a  spectator  and  I  shall  keep,  I  believe,  all  my  life,  this  in¬ 
genuousness  of  the  great  city’s  idlers  who  are  amused  by  everything 
and  who  retain,  in  the  age  of  ambition,  the  disinterested  curiosity  of 
little  children.” 

“I  have  no  system.”  This  he  proved  in  Thais  by  evoking  them  all. 
Not  indeed  in  the  hallucinatory  form  of  La  Tentation  de  Saint- 
Antoine,  in  an  epic  nightmare  procession,  but  in  the  seductive  setting 
of  supreme  Alexandrianism  which  allows  him  to  present  on  the  same 
plane  truths  with  a  parodoxical  air  and  paradoxes  which  are  perhaps 
truths.  The  exigencies  of  his  pious  undertaking  bring  the  unfortunate 
Paphnuce  into  a  series  of  conflicts  with  the  ascetic  Timocles,  with 
Nicias  the  sceptic,  with  Dorion  the  Epicurean,  with  Eucrites  the  Stoic, 
with  Marcus  the  Arian,  with  Cotta’s  Roman  sound  sense,  with  the 
thousand  temptations  of  the  Evil  One  and  with  the  injustice  of  Divine 
Grace.  For,  if  certain  pages  of  Thais  already  foreshadow  Le  Jar  din 
d’ Epicure,  the  narrative  sums  up,  under  its  nonchalant  air,  Voltaire’s 
and  Renan’s  criticism  of  Christianity.  With  a  delicate  finger,  France 
underscores  the  relativity  of  dogmas  and  the  strange  mystical  inver¬ 
sions  which  ensure  eternal  bliss  for  the  courtesan  and  damnation  for 
the  monk  guilty  of  too  charitable  a  zeal.  He  is  visibly  amused  by  this 
spiritual  puss-in-the-corner  in  which  he  who  starts  from  divine  love 
gets  caught  in  the  quicksands  of  human  love,  while  his  purified  sister 
travels  the  opposite  path.  The  psychologist  enjoys  watching  terror 
shrivel  Thai's’s  superstitious  little  soul  and  jealousy  of  Nicias  corrupt 
Paphnuce’s  mind.  He  takes  pleasure  in  demonstrating,  step  by  step, 
the  construction  of  a  legend.  Never  did  a  work  of  art  supported  by 
so  much  erudition  assume  more  simply  the  aspect  of  a  pastime.  Every¬ 
thing  in  it  seems  natural,  even  the  classic  perfection  of  the  slightest  de¬ 
tails  of  its  narrative :  “When  night  fell,  the  murmur  of  the  tamarisks, 
caressed  by  the  breeze,  made  him  shiver,  and  he  drew  his  hood  down  over 
his  eyes  no  longer  to  see  the  beauty  of  things.  .  .  .  He  exposed  the 
loosened  fibres  to  the  sun  and  to  the  dew,  and  every  morning  was  care¬ 
ful  to  turn  them  over  to  keep  them  from  rotting;  and  he  rejoiced  to 
feel  the  simplicity  of  childhood  born  in  him  anew” — complete  mastery 
of  the  sentence,  sensitive  to  the  most  delicate  insinuations  of  a  subtle 
irony,  through  which  this  pellucid  work  keeps  at  the  same  time  all  the 
prestige  of  caprice. 

After  this  imagination  of  the  antique  world,  France  felt  sure  enough 
of  his  power  to  imagine  the  modern  world — modern,  yet  not  contem- 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  69 

porary.  La  Rotisserie  de  la  Reine  Pedauque  is  doubtless,  in  the 
general  estimation,  Anatole  France’s  masterpiece — the  one  which 
all  his  admirers  salute  unanimously.  Everyone  who,  at  the  various 
stages  of  his  long  and  glorious  career,  has  addressed  him  as  Mon  bon 
Maitre,  loves  this  book  of  mystification  and  observation  in  which  the 
pastiche,  archaism,  evocation  of  the  most  absurd  legends  (so  like  our 
superstitions,  adds  the  humorist)  veil  an  eternally  human  satire  be¬ 
neath  the  charm  of  an  Arabian  Nights’  Entertainment.  In  a  fanciful 
eighteenth-century  setting,  through  scenes  of  homely  reality,  through 
discussions  of  life  and  the  art  of  living,  the  narrative  flows  on,  as  if 
drifting  idly,  but  guided  by  a  firm  hand  sure  of  its  goal.  The  charac¬ 
ters  start  up  like  the  actors  in  an  ideal  Punch  and  Judy  show.  Here 
is  Tournebroche,  the  delightful  simpleton,  his  father  Leonard  and  his 
mother  Barbe,  “the  saintly  and  worthy  woman”;  then  brother  Ange, 
the  gluttonous  and  rascally  friar,  d’Astarac  the  cabalist,  Mosa'ide  the 
interpreter  of  the  Book  of  Enoch,  the  gallant  M.  d’Anquetil,  and  the 
retainer  de  la  Gueritaude,  not  to  mention  Catherine  the  lace-maker  and 
the  wily  Jahel  who  sow  comedies  and  di'amas  as  they  pass  because, 
in  the  heart  of  man,  God  has  placed  desire.  In  the  centre  of  this  world 
is  Abbe  Jerome  Coignard,  a  real  eighteenth-century  abbe,  drunkard 
and  rake,  indulgent  for  all  human  weaknesses,  deriving  virtuous  lessons 
from  his  own  lapses  in  gambling  and  love,  a  humanist  with  a  touch  of 
smiling  pedantry,  maliciously  ingenuous,  dominating  all  the  vicissitudes 
of  fate  thanks  to  a  serene  wisdom  in  which  clear  vision  mingles  with 
ironic  pity.  A  fictitious  biography  whose  relief  discourages  the  novelist 
and  the  historian  equally,  it  fully  deserves  the  tribute  France  himself 
jestingly  bestowed  upon  it:  “It  is  a  work  which  makes  one  think  of 
those  portraits  of  Erasmus,  painted  by  Holbein,  which  are  seen  at  the 
Louvre,  in  the  museum  at  Basle  and  at  Hampton  Court,  and  the  deli¬ 
cacy  of  which  one  never  tires  of  tasting.” 

In  the  preface  to  Les  Opinions  de  M.  Jerome  Coignard  where,  with 
a  modest  coquetry,  he  thus  defined  his  work,  Anatole  France  analysed 
this  hero  to  whom  he  had  given  much  of  his  own  wit.  He  spoke  of  “his 
indulgent  wisdom,”  fruit  “of  a  sort  of  generous  scepticism.”  Philoso¬ 
pher  and  Christian,  he  assigned  him  two  masters :  Epicurus  to  whom 
Coignard  owed  the  liberation  of  his  thought  and  Saint  Francis  of 
Assisi  who  had  taught  him  simplicity  of  soul  and  of  bearing;  but  this 
description  which  is  perfect  for  the  Coignard  of  the  Rotisserie  in  his 
fresh  novelty,  applies  less  well  to  the  Coignard  of  the  Opinions  whose 
disquisitions  pitilessly  sap  the  society  they  pretend  to  explain.  Al¬ 
ready,  in  the  form,  the  classification  of  these  opinions  under  abstract 
heads  shows  a  change.  Assuredly  the  art  remains  infinite.  Coignard 


70  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

moves  in  a  chosen,  elegantly  superannuated  setting,  and  his  creator 
often  takes  pains  to  develop  his  thought  until  it  becomes  a  paradox  so 
as  to  lessen  its  aggressive  import.  The  reader  nevertheless  feels  the 
hardening  and  half  perceives  a  bitterness.  France,  in  1893,  was  torn 
by  violent  political  passions.  Could  the  writer  refuse  the  pseudonym 
he  had  selected  the  perilous  honour  of  taking  sides?  The  Tourangeau 
Rabelais  and  the  Parisian  Villon  who  figure  among  Anatole  France’s 
most  authentic  masters  had  been  unable  to  spend  all  their  lives  laugh¬ 
ing  at  the  human  comedy,  and  their  jests  had  sharpened  into  satires. 
Had  not  France  himself,  in  the  flexible  criticism  of  La  Vie  litteraire, 
been  forced  to  affirm  affections  and  repugnances?  It  was  natural  that 
Jerome  Coignard’s  critical  philosophy  should  declare  the  ridiculous 
uselessness  of  human  institutions  as  he  passed  them  in  review.  Ex¬ 
amples  drawn  from  antiquity,  commentaries  on  eighteenth-century 
events  awoke  contemporary  allusions  at  every  step.  Sometimes  even, 
there  was  need  of  an  editor’s  note  which,  under  colour  of  explanation, 
accentuated  the  comparison.  From  this  raillery  emerged  a  positive 
conclusion:  a  stern,  vigilant  struggle  against  all  the  fanaticisms  of 
which  human  law  and  justice  still  bears  too  undeniable  traces.  France 
perfectly  understood  that  this  attitude  was  not  definitive,  that  it  ex¬ 
posed  his  hero  to  a  double  reproach.  If,  in  the  preface  to  Les  Opin¬ 
ions,  he  opposes  to  the  unleashed  parties  the  “charitable  scepticism” 
of  Abbe  Coignard,  the  last  page  of  the  book  also  affirms  that  to  destroy 
is  insufficient,  that  the  necessity  of  creating — through  the  imagination 
— cannot  be  avoided.  “To  serve  men,  one  must  cast  aside  every  reason, 
as  an  encumbering  baggage,  and  rise  on  the  wings  of  enthusiasm.  If 
one  reasons,  one  will  never  fly.”  Jerome  Coignard’s  last  words  presage 
the  disenchanted  spirit  of  M.  Bergeret  and,  this  crisis  once  passed, 
Anatole  France’s  profession  of  faith  in  “des  temps  meilleurs.','‘ 

Le  Lys  rouge  is  Anatole  France’s  one  attempt  in  the  sentimental 
novel  form ;  and  its  originality  does  not  reside  in  the  plot — the  story  of 
the  first  two  lovers  of  Mme.  Martin-Belleme  whom  the  author  leaves 
young  enough  discreetly  to  permit  her  other  experiences.  The  interest 
of  Le  Lys  rouge  lies  in  the  description  of  the  setting — picturesque 
corners  of  Paris  and  Florence — and  of  the  episodic  character’s — epi¬ 
grammatic  critic,  decadent  poetess,  dubious  Italian  prince,  among 
whom  passes  the  delicious  Verlainian  Choulette.  Its  weakness  is  the 
inadequacy  of  the  protagonists,  Le  Menil  and  Deschartre  remaining 
rather  conventional  and  Therese  adding  little  but  the  charm  of  her 
white  arms  to  the  refined  phrases  Anatole  France  has  deigned  to 
put  in  her  mouth.  An  anthology  might  be  composed  of  quotations 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  71 

from  Le  Lys  rouge,  a  kind  of  melancholy  garland  for  some  statue  to 
sensual  love:  “We  wish  to  be  loved  and,  when  we  are  loved,  we  are 
tormented  and  bored  ...  A  woman  is  frank  when  she  does  not  tell 
useless  lies  ...  We  were  already  so  old  when  we  were  born  .  .  . 
Every  human  creature  is  a  different  being  in  the  eyes  of  each  of  those 
who  look  at  him.  In  this  sense  it  may  be  said  that  the  same  woman  has 
never  belonged  to  two  men  ...  We  are  broken  against  each  other, 
we  do  not  mingle !”  An  impression  of  irremediable  failure  fills  the 
book,  sadder  than  any  lyrical  revolt.  “Give  men  as  witnesses  and  as 
judges  Irony  and  Pity.”  The  France  of  Le  Lys  rouge  repeats  to  his 
contemporaries  the  advice  he  had  given  them  in  Le  Jardin  d’Epicure. 
By  this  he  does  not  mean  the  combative  irony  of  Barbey  or  the  abstract 
irony  of  Barres  or  the  avenging  irony  of  Villiers,  but  a  humanist’s 
irony,  “gentle  and  kind,”  in  short  the  irony  of  an  ideal  Attica,  goddess 
of  tender  reason  whose  praise  he  repeats  with  the  restrained  sadness  of 
the  philosopher  about  to  leave  this  shelter  of  wisdom  and  plunge  back 
into  human  life. 


6.  PIERRE  EOTI  AND  EXOTICISM 

“Nothing  has  happened  to  me  that  I  did  not  obscurely  foresee  from 
my  earliest  boyhood,”  writes  Pierre  Loti  at  the  beginning  of  Le  Pelerin 
d’ Anglcor.  When  but  a  child,  in  his  little  museum  in  the  Saintonge,  he 
had  foreseen  that,  in  spite  of  his  family’s  opposition,  he  would  enter 
the  navy  and  visit  the  most  beautiful  countries  in  the  world.  He  had 
also  foreseen  that  his  Protestant  faith  would  gradually  give  way  to  a 
kind  of  vague  pantheism  dominated  by  the  terror  of  death.  If  he 
omits  to  add  that  he  had  foreseen  his  literary  work,  it  is  simply  because 
this  was  for  him  but  an  episode — another  effort  to  save  his  life  from 
the  engulfing  nothingness. 

It  is  this  personal  sentiment  which  inspires  his  books — much  more 
than  the  circumstances  which  determined  their  composition.  They  are 
linked  together  by  a  bond  of  unity  beside  which  their  superficial  differ¬ 
ences  are  of  no. account.  Much  has  been  said  about  Loti’s  disillusion¬ 
ment  ;  and  on  this  score  he  has  been  compared  with  Chateaubriand — a 
resemblance  in  the  attitude  which  should  not  blind  us  to  the  funda¬ 
mental  difference.  Chauteaubriand  had  proudly  “yawned  away  his 
life”  because  his  work  did  not  receive  the  recognition  he  believed  it 
deserved.  Loti  obtained  all  the  successes  he  coveted.  The  earth  satis¬ 
fied  his  curiosity  and  his  sensuality  to  the  full.  He  knew  the  joy  of 
discovering  closed  countries,  of  revealing  them  to  men.  He  experi¬ 
enced  the  more  refined  pleasure  of  seeing  their  charm  diminished  by 


72  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

civilization,  of  having  been  the  last  person  to  enjoy  their  virgin  beauty. 
He  lacked  nothing,  not  even  the  melancholy  pleasure  of  prophesying 
the  inevitable  decadence: 

“A  time  will  come  when  the  world  will  be  a  very  dull  place  to  dwell 
in,  when  everything  will  have  been  made  uniform  from  one  end  to  the 
other  and  when  it  will  no  longer  be  possible  even  to  try  to  travel  for  a 
little  distraction  .  . 

Yet  all  these  distractions  which  were  offered  him  were  unable  to  dis¬ 
tract  him  from  the  enemy  he  carried  within  himself.  The  obsession  of 
the  relentless  unfolding  of  life  with  the  inevitable  old  age  and  death 
at  the  end  of  everything — that  bitter  knowledge  which  with  him  is  as 
acute  as  a  physical  sensation — pursues  Loti  even  in  the  intoxication  of 
love  and  the  contemplation  of  the  most  sumptuous  landscapes.  “Be¬ 
fore  my  fortieth  year,”  he  wrote,  “I  am  reduced  to  singing  my  ill  and 
announcing  it  to  the  casual  passer-by,  to  appeal  for  the  sympathy  of 
the  remotest  strangers ;  and  to  appeal  with  an  anguish  which  increases 
as  I  become  more  conscious  of  the  final  dust.  And  who  knows?  As  I 
journey  farther  in  life,  I  shall  perhaps  come  to  writing  of  yet  more 
intimate  things  which  at  present  could  not  be  wrung  from  me — and  this 
to  try  to  prolong,  beyond  my  own  span,  all  I  have  been,  all  I  have  wept, 
all  I  have  loved.”  From  Le  Roman  d’un  enfant  to  Prime  Jeunesse, 
what  confessions  has  not  Loti  painfully  accepted  in  order  to  ensure, 
in  the  memory  of  his  readers,  some  years  of  life,  first  for  what  he 
deemed  best  among  his  memories,  then  little  by  little,  shyly,  for  his 
whole  self? 

Criticism  does  not  abdicate  its  judgment  when  it  decides  in  his 
favour  and  agrees  that  indeed  he  never  did  anything  else;  but  this 
character  of  jetsam  saved  from  the  universal  shipwreck  is  true  above 
all  of  the  works  which  are  properly  autobiographic.  In  the  novels, 
art  intervenes.  Loti  tries,  at  any  rate,  to  escape  from  himself. 
Doubtless  this  escape  should  not  be  exaggerated.  The  characters  he 
chooses  are  generally  simple.  No  psychological  delicacy  is  required 
for  the  portrayal  of  Ramuntcho  or  “mon  frere  Yves.”  The  distance 
envelops  Rarahu  and  Madame  Chrysantheme  in  a  magnificent  setting 
which  easily  stands  them  in  stead  of  a  soul.  The  apparent  complexity 
of  Les  Desenchantees  is  an  Occidental  culture  which  adds  itself  to  their 
passionate  sensibility  without  as  yet  penetrating  it  profoundly.  Even 
in  Pecheur  tPlslande,  the  book  by  Loti  which  comes  closest  to  the  con¬ 
ventional  novel,  one  would  say  that  the  heroes  were  abstract  general 
types,  did  not  Loti  possess  a  visual  imagination  absolutely  rebellious 
to  all  abstraction.  For  the  feasts  of  eyesight  and  the  short  halts  of 
sensual  passion  alone  procured  him  exalted  moments  when,  lost  in  the 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  73 

present  sensation,  he  forgot  the  menace  of  the  other,  final  annihilation. 

Loti’s  exoticism  is  then  no  artist’s  whim  but  a  necessity  for  the 
man  he  was,  the  one  balm  for  his  boredom  and  his  fear.  Now,  as  a 
rather  natural  consequence,  exoticism  has  also  been  responsible  for  his 
greatest  literary  successes.  Though  incapable  of  a  personal  intellec¬ 
tual  construction,  he  sees  at  a  glance  the  whole  of  a  landscape,  and 
his  descriptions,  espousing  the  contours  of  his  object  with  mar¬ 
vellous  suppleness,  give  a  picture  of  it  so  faithful  as  to  restore  for  the 
dullest  eyes  the  entire  spectacle  with  the  inner  harmony  justifying  its 
existence.  An  example  will  illustrate  this  recreative  passivity  of  Loti 
as  a  painter :  “However  the  moon  sinks  slowly,  and  its  blue  light 
grows  dim.  Now  it  is  nearer  the  waters  and  draws  across  them  a  long 
trailing  gleam.  It  becomes  yellower,  giving  but  little  light,  like  a 
dying  lamp.  Slowly  it  begins  to  grow  bigger  and  bigger,  enormous, 
and  then  it  becomes  red,  loses  its  shape,  sinks,  strange,  terrifying. 
One  no  longer  knows  what  one  sees.  On  the  horizon  it  is  a  great,  dull, 
bloody  fire.  It  is  too  big  to  be  the  moon  .  .  .” 

“The  notion  of  the  real  is  lost,”  he  writes  a  little  farther  on.  He 
is  at  once  alarmed  and  delighted  by  it.  Not  that  he  is  incapable  of 
precise  descriptions.  They  abound  in  Au  Maroc  or  in  Vers  Ispahan. 
Not  that  he  is  incapable  even  of  the  rigorous  minuteness  indispensable 
to  the  crusade  of  virulent  satire  which  he  undertook  in  UInde  ( sans  les 
Anglais )  and  La  Mort  de  Philce;  but  his  favourite  method,  his  most 
instinctive  tendency,  consists  in  losing  himself  in  the  spectacle  he 
contemplates  until  he  is  enveloped  by  it,  in  no  longer  painting  it 
otherwise  than  as  filled  with  their  two  mingled  emotions.  This  sen¬ 
tence :  “Slowly  it  begins  to  grow  bigger  and  bigger,  enormous, 
then  it  becomes  red,  loses  its  shape,  sinks,  strange,  terrifying,”  sums 
up  Loti’s  whole  style.  Repetition  of  words,  an  accumulation  of  de¬ 
scriptive  verbs,  adjectives  of  subjective  impression — everything  con¬ 
verges  to  create  an  atmosphere  of  indefinable  mystery.  Thus  it 
excels  in  evoking  the  vague,  in  presenting  one  reality  by  the  negation 
of  another:  “It  was  a  pale,  pale  light,  unlike  anything.  It  trailed 
over  things  like  reflections  of  dead  sunlight.  About  them,  suddenly, 
sprang  up  an  immense  void,  which  was  of  no  colour;  and,  except  for 
the  boards  of  their  boat,  everything  seemed  diaphanous,  impalpable, 
chimerical.” 

There  is  the  secret  of  his  power  over  the  imagination.  He  paints 
things  in  a  waking  dream  wherein  they  arise  and  disappear  magi¬ 
cally.  He  describes  while  seeming  to  capitulate  to  reality.  In  the 
sorcery  of  this  prose  the  most  abstract  terms  shed  their  intellectual 
value  and  cease  to  act  save  by  virtue  of  their  affective  force:  “That 


74  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

night  was  immensity  presented  under  its  most  astonishingly  simple 
aspects,  in  neutral  tints,  giving  impressions  of  depth  alone.  This 
horizon,  which  indicated  no  precise  region  of  the  earth,  not  even  any 
geological  era,  must  have  been  so  often  the  same,  from  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  time,  that  looking  at  it  one  really  seemed  to  see  nothing 
— nothing  but  the  eternity  of  things  which  are  and  cannot  help  be¬ 
ing.”  “To  be”  and  “to  seem” — these  rudimentary  verbs  recur  con¬ 
tinually  in  Loti’s  books — symbolically.  For,  though  weak  for  precise 
description,  they  are  unequalled  in  their  infinite  aptitude  for  sugges¬ 
tion.  Now  suggestion  is  indeed  the  one  aim  of  this  art  which,  ex¬ 
asperated  by  the  omnipresence  of  mortal  danger,  scarcely  dares  as¬ 
sert  its  supreme  hope :  “I  am  more  and  more  inclined  to  believe  in 
and  to  hold  out  my  arms  to  sovereign  Pity,  because  I  have  suffered 
too  much,  under  every  sky,  amid  enchantment  and  horror,  have  seen 
too  much  suffering,  seen  too  much  weeping,  and  seen  too  much  pray¬ 
ing”  ;  and  this  persistent  evocation  of  so  many  skies,  so  many  charms 
or  horrors,  .was  for  Loti,  all  told,  but  a  sort  of  opiate  to  soothe 
human  suffering  and  for  an  instant  to  dilute  his  own  anguish  in 
dream. 


7.  THE  ROMANTIC  AND  REGION  AEISTIC  NOVEL 

Even  at  the  height  of  their  success,  the  Naturalists  had  not  suc¬ 
ceeded  in  touching  that  part  of  the  literary  public  which  demands  of 
the  novelist  a  romantic  plot  satisfying  their  imagination,  a  story 
transporting  them  far  from  everyday  reality.  These  reread  George 
Sand,  enjoying  the  gentle  romanticism  of  Le  Marquis  de  Villemer. 
They  welcomed  the  last  productions  of  Octave  Feuillet,  a  painter 
delicate  and  without  breadth  of  rather  monotonous  aristocratic  cir¬ 
cles.  They  remained  faithful  to.  Victor  Cherbuliez  whose  novels, 
from  U Aventure  de  Ladislas  Bolski  to  La  Vocation  du  comte  Ghislain, 
kept,  in  their  alternation  of  romantic  incidents  and  brilliant  con¬ 
versations,  the  charm  of  an  About  who,  even  on  the  Boulevard,  did 
not  forget  Geneva.  These  readers  appreciated  in  La.  Maison  des 
deux  Barbeaux  the  honourable  qualities  of  Andre  Theuriet.  For 
want  of  better  they  accepted  Coppee’s  stories  until  the  time  when 
Le  Coupable  showed  them  how  a  Parnassian  poet  could  equal  that 
Georges  Ohnet  whom  Jules  Lemaitre  had  taught  them,  if  not  to  shun, 
at  least  to  repudiate. 

However,  in  the  movement  of  anti-Naturalistic  reaction,  there  was 
room  for  a  renaissance  of  the  literary  romantic  novel.  One  man 
understood  it  and  exactly  defined  the  end  this  art  should  attain: 
“May  you  find,  in  the  pages  you  are  going  to  reread,  a  little  of  that 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  75 

sentimental  grace,  of  that  romantic  side  of  the  real,  where  for  you, 
as  for  me,  lies  the  principal  merit,  the  most  agreeable  charm  of 
works  of  imagination.” 

It  was  in  these  terms  that  Marcel  Prevost  dedicated  his  Automne 
d’un  femme  to  a  friend ;  and  he  himself  seemed,  by  his  scientific  ante¬ 
cedents,  particularly  qualified  to  undertake  with  originality  this 
rehabilitation  of  the  romantic  in  the  real.  It!  is  all  the  more  regret¬ 
table  to  find  in  his  novels  no  other  trace  of  the  scientific  spirit  than 
minute  calculations  culminating  in  this  title,  Les  Demi-Vierges,  and 
an  annoying  skill  in  exploiting  industrially  the  methods  which  had 
once  succeeded. 

Marcel  Prevost’s  originality  lies  in  the  task  he  has  assumed  of 
taking  the  edge  off  romantic  illusions  for  inquisitive  boys  and  anx¬ 
ious  girls.  Brazenly,  under  the  mask  of  a  lover  making  his  confes¬ 
sion,  in  imitations  of  women’s  letters  fabricated  expressly,  and  read¬ 
ing  like  it,  he  has  pretended  to  initiate  them  to  a  modern  conventional 
life  which  carefully  excludes  all  grandeur  even  in  sensuality.  It  is 
a  work  which  might  have  been  exquisitely  perverse  had  not  the 
grace  of  the  libertine  story-tellers  been  replaced  by  a  style  which 
fluctuates  between  the  sickening  commonplaceness  of  the  society  column 
and  the  stiff  gravity  of  a  psychological  Prudhomme — which  might 
have  been  dangerously  perverse  but  which  an  ingenuous  impotence  to 
endow  theoretical  vice  with  a  single  new  refinement  renders  sadly 
inoffensive.  Now  this  picture  of  a  factitious  society  which  knows 
neither  the  subtleties  of  intelligence  nor  the  ardours  of  passion  nor 
the  profound  stirrings  of  sensual  love,  is  dominated  by  the  image  of  an 
indulgent  God  who  forgives  everything,  even  the  most  hardened  sinner 
against  the  spirit.  In  Him  is  embodied  the  thought  of  Marcel  Prevost 
who  emerged  from  his  confessional  furnished  like  a  boudoir,  about  the 
time  of  the  Exposition  Universelle,  to  participate  to  the  best  of  his 
ability  in  the  revival  of  French  energies.  Then  he  climbed  into  the 
pulpit,  astonished  at  the  bad  reputation  enjoyed  by  France  abroad, 
and  decreed  himself  moralist  and  preacher  for  ladies  of  all  classes.  To 
affirm  the  double  failure  of  his  career  is  then  to  show  oneself  less  cruel 
towards  him  than  he  himself  was  towards  the  vice  and  the  virtue  of 
which  he  has  drawn  two  such  heavily  damning  portraits. 

For  the  regionalistic  novel  also  George  Sand  had  conquered  a  patent 
of  nobility  in  the  literature  of  the  nineteenth  century,  and  the  Domi¬ 
nique  which  is  dedicated  to  her  did  indeed  keep  something  of  the  charm 
common  to  this  sort  of  writing;  but  what  in  Sand  and  in  Fromentin 
was  but  one  aspect  of  a  multiple  creation  became  for  others  the  unique 
aim  of  their  art.  They  attached  themselves  to  a  province,  the  prin- 


76  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

cipal  character  in  all  their  works.  Now,  as  the  regionalistic  novel  has 
produced  in  France  no  work  comparable  in  scope  to  Thomas  Hardy’s 
Wessex  series,  the  public  accustomed  itself  to  hooking  to  the  name  of 
each  regionalist  the  name  of  the  country  or  the  title  of  the  book  in 
which  he  had  best  described  this  corner  and  to  feel  it  had  done  him  full 
justice. 

Perhaps,  indeed,  sufficient  justice  has  been  done  Cladel  and  Theuriet 
when  it  is  said  that  the  one  describes  Quercy,  the  other  the  Barrois, 
just  as  these  words,  “the  author  of  Les  Antibel  and  of  Terre  d’Oc,” 
dispenses  with  any  commentary  on  Pouvillon.  Jacquou  le  Croquant 
merits  more  than  a  simple  mention.  Observation  of  the  peculiarities  of 
peasant  life  in  Perigord  there  combines  with  a  psychological  and  histor¬ 
ical  study  of  the  last  Jacquerie  which  brought  Eugene  Le  Roy  an  un¬ 
qualified  success.  In  the  same  connection  must  be  recalled  the  Alsatian 
novels  due  to  the  collaboration  of  Erckmann  and  Chatrian  which  fed 
the  imagination  of  French  schoolchildren  until  they  were  dispossessed  in 
favour  of  the  novels  of  scientific  imagination  of  which  Jules  Verne,  the 
forerunner  of  H.  G.  Wells,  remains  the  undisputed  master. 

Ferdinand  Fabre  belongs  to  the  regionalistic  group  through  his  at¬ 
tachment  to  the  Cevennes ;  but  he  was  at  the  same  time  one  of  the 
best  painters  of  ecclesiastical  life.  Those  interested  have  exercised 
their  right  in  incriminating  the  fidelity  of  his  portraits ;  but  it  would 
be  difficult  to  deny  their  living  interest.  Fabre  will  survive  through  at 
least  one  of  his  novels,  L’Abbe  Tigrane,  a  study  of  ambition  in  a  priest, 
the  analysis  of  the  soul  of  a  modern  Lucifer.  Traces  of  Romanticism, 
even  of  lyrical  improbabilities,  have  been  pointed  out  in  it — excesses 
hardly  compatible  with  the  modern  setting  of  the  action ;  but  this  action 
develops  with  fierce  violence,  this  soul  is  possessed  with  a  sinister  ardour 
of  revolt  which,  higher  than  the  emotion,  force  from  the  reader  a  kind 
of  religious  admiration. 

8.  THE  MORAL  AND  SOCIAL  NOVEL 

Yet  another  set  of  influences  acted  upon  the  French  novel  at  this 
epoch,  to  divert  it  from  the  Naturalistic  paths.  The  university  phi¬ 
losophy,  after  1870,  had  gradually  come  clear  of  Cousin’s  eclec¬ 
ticism  and  now  professed  a  Neo-Kantian  doctrine.  The  first  chapter 
of  Les  Deracines  recalls  the  teaching  in  the  lycees  of  1880.  One-sided 
teaching  surely;  but  how,  were  it  not  partial,  would  teaching  fur¬ 
nish  hesitant  minds  directions  and  original  minds  a  worthy  motive 
for  reaction?  The  masters  of  1880  had  been  fed  on  Kant  and 
were  beginning  to  translate  Schopenhauer.  They  orientated  their  dis¬ 
ciples  towards  ethical  problems.  In  1883,  Fouillee  published  the 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  77 

Critique  des  systemes  de  morale  contemporains.  In  1884  appeared 
Secretan’s  Principes  de  la  morale  and  the  Esquisse  d’une  morale  sans 
obligation  ni  sanction  by  Guyau,  also  preoccupied  with  questions  of 
esthetics.  At  the  same  time,  with  the  consolidation  of  the  political 
regime  and  the  end  of  the  heroic  period  of  the  Republic,  social  problems 
became  more  insistent.  The  ground  seemed  prepared  for  the  flowering 
of  a  crop  of  moral  and  social  novels. 

Nevertheless  no  original  revelation  occurred,  because  this  aspira¬ 
tion,  scarcely  formulated,  was  at  once  satisfied  by  the  discovery  of  the 
Russian  novels.  Here  again  dates  are  significant.  From  1884  to 
1888,  translations  permitted  the  French  public  to  read  War  and  Peace, 
Anna  Karenina,  Crime  and  Punishment,  The  Idiot  and  The  Brothers 
Karamazov.  Moussorgsky  had  just  forever  liberated  our  Claude 
Debussy  from  the  Wagnerian  subjection.  Likewise  Tolstoi’s  and 
Dostoievsky’s  genius  manifested  the  existence  of  a  complex,  bar¬ 
baric  art  so  intensely  human  that  all  other  models  seemed  faded 
and  superficial.  Fictional  literature  did  not  find  its  Debussy,  only 
adapters  or  imitators  to  mutilate  clumsily  the  immense  Slav  fres¬ 
coes.  E.  M.  de  Vogue  won  the  esteem  of  the  world  of  letters  for  his 
study  of  the  Russian  novel  rather  than  for  the  value  of  his  own  works, 
Jean  d’Agreve  and  Les  Morts  qui  parlent.  Neo-Christian  sentiments 
were  strengthened  by  the  Russian  contribution.  Their  influence  pro¬ 
voked  great  works  only  some  years  later  when  from  the  books  of  Dos¬ 
toievsky  and  Tolstoi  had  sprung  a  new,  mystical  conception  of  human¬ 
ity,  of  suffering  and  of  pity. 

Edouard  Rod  continues  the  tradition  of  Protestant  Switzerland 
which  adds  habits  of  moral  rigidity  and  of  European  curiosity  to 
French  culture.  Rod  is  openly  a  moralist.  Whether  the  cover  of  his 
book  bears  the  title  La  Course  a  la  mort,  Le  Sens  de  la  vie  or 
Les  Idees  morales  du  temps  present,  with  different  means  he  pursues 
the  same  end :  to  define  more  exactly  the  duties  of  a  contemporary  con¬ 
science  towards  itself.  When  he  studies  Rousseau  and  Goethe  he  de¬ 
mands  of  them  further  lights  for  this  task.  Thus  it  is  not  astonishing 
if  we  discern  in  Rod  the  evident  traces  of  so  considerable  a  preliminary 
labour.  One  would  wish  at  times  that  his  application  in  treating 
a  moral  problem  might  relax  and  admit  the  collaboration  of  a  fancy 
which  would  perhaps,  in  the  last  analysis,  be  truer  to  human  nature — 
which  would,  at  any  rate,  reserve  for  the  reader  the  surprises  of  a  more 
refined  emotion;  but  these  regrets  do  not  prevent  La  Vie  privee  de 
Michel  Teissier  from  holding  an  honourable  place  in  the  history  of  the 
moral  novel. 

We  should  be  courting  certain  failure  were  we  to  apply  to  Jules 


78  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Valles  the  ordinary  standards  of  literary  criticism;  and  yet  no  social 
novel  has  surpassed  the  poignant  intensity  of  the  Jacques  Vingtras 
trilogy.  Too  autobiographical  to  be  classed  among  the  descriptive 
novelists,  too  partial  to  stand  among  the  historians,  Valles  revives  his 
epoch  with  an  impetuous  power  which  does  not  let  itself  become  mere 
pamphleteering  raciness.  When  he  tries  to  be  objective,  whether  in 
painting  the  refractory,  the  Parisian  “irregulars,”  the  victims  of  hack 
literature  or  the  “horror  and  desolation”  of  London  streets  with  the 
inhuman  hospitality  of  the  workhouse,  interest  flags  ;  but  whoever  reads 
the  symphony  of  revolt  formed  by  L’Enfant,  Le  Bachelier,  L’ Insurge, 
has,  in  this  confession,  the  same  feeling  of  freedom  as  in  an  imaginative 
creation.  What  does  it  matter  that  the  novelist  has  taken  his  own  life 
for  raw  material,  if  he  has  succeeded,  intentionally  or  not,  in  trans¬ 
muting  it  into  a  work  of  art? 

Of  an  art  less  revolutionary,  perhaps,  than  Valles  would  have  wished 
to  make  us  believe.  “I  have  made  my  style  out  of  scraps  and  pieces,” 
he  writes,  “which  one  would  think  had  been  picked  up  with  a  rag-hook, 
in  unclean,  heart-rending  corners.”  In  literature  too  he  valued  his 
reputation  as  a  rebel  and  declared  he  would  be  more  readily  forgiven  for 
having  been  a  member  of  the  Commune  than  for  having  sent  Homer 
back  to  the  Blind  Hospital.  One  might  smile  at  his  pretensions  and 
amuse  oneself  picking  out  the  passages  where  he  plunges  into  slang  to 
escape  his  classical  memories,  were  it  not  understood  that  he  himself  is 
not  taken  in,  that  he  seeks  less  here  to  glory  in  an  originality  than  to 
dress  one  of  the  most  cruel  wounds  to  his  pride.  For  the  whole  of  his 
work  is  swayed  by  a  twofold  hatred.  He  detests  society,  “the  slut” 
who  “starves  men  of  culture  and  courage  when  they  refuse  to  be  its 
lackeys,”  who  tramples  the  rights  of  man  underfoot ;  but  he  curses 
even  more  the  false  education  which  does  not  respect  the  rights  of  the 
child,  which  prevents  him  from  becoming  an  honest  workman  to  turn 
him  into  a  useless,  starving  bachelor  of  arts.  His  work  is  the  explo¬ 
sion  of  his  wraths,  a  vengeance.  Everything,  even  his  writer’s  craft, 
infuriates  him  when  it  diverts  him  from  his  essential  goal :  “They  have 
imagined  a  Bohemia  of  cowards.  I  will  show  them  another,  of  desper¬ 
ate,  menacing  men !” 

Within  the  limits  where  he  fiercely  confined  himself  he  succeeded. 
His  picture  is  prodigiously  alive.  Not  that  he  ever  describes.  Even 
when  he  relates  historical  events — December  2  or  the  Commune — he 
paints  less  by  an  evocation  of  images  than  by  a  hallucinated  confession 
of  exalted  sentiments.  His  moral  condition  is  insurrection.  Hence 
his  loud,  savage  outcries,  such  as  this  commentary  on  harmless  Beran- 
ger’s  “beggars  are  happy  folk!”:  “That  must  not  be  said  to  the 


THE  ANTI-NATURALISTIC  REACTION  79 

beggars !  If  they  believe  it  they  will  not  rebel.  They  will  take  up  the 
staff  and  scrip,  not  the  rifle !”  Hence  that  feverish  harshness  stigma¬ 
tizing  the  Vingtras’  failures  in  his  struggle  against  poverty.  Hence 
too  certain  paroxysms  of  inhumanity  and  “the  fine  cruelty”  of  his  duel 
with  Legrand.  Hence  finally  the  epic  character  of  the  narrative 
when,  by  lecture,  by  article,  by  book,  by  direct  action,  he  charges, 
with  all  the  power  of  his  hatred,  against  hostile  society. 

This  very  wrath,  however,  lends  him  a  strange  lucidity.  He  is  tri¬ 
umphant  in  concrete  satire.  His  portraits,  from  college  professors  to 
the  masters  of  the  press  and  revolutionary  leaders,  are  drawn  mor- 
dantly,  with  a  picturesque  relief.  An  instinct  immediately  shows  him 
the  ridiculous  detail  which  will  bring  his  verve  into  play.  His  child¬ 
hood  memories,  with  the  unforgettable  figures  of  the  peasant  mother 
and  the  father  dulled  by  an  obscure  professorship,  are  those  of  a 
less  idealized  and  infinitely  more  complex  Poil  de  Carotte.  He  has 
a  gift  of  dry  humour  which  proceeds  through  displays  of  flowery  rhet¬ 
oric  followed  by  sudden  recalls  to  the  realities  of  life,  through  wilful 
nonsense.  This  mechanical,  grimacing  irony  which  is  never  a  relaxa¬ 
tion  he  turns  against  himself.  With  him  it  takes  the  place  of  the 
critical  faculty.  After  evoking  the  revolutionary  enthusiasm,  the 
faith  in  what  a  Georges  Sorel  would  call ’“the  ’93  myth,;”  he  pulls 
up  sharp  to  question  himself :  “I  often  happen  to  wonder  too  if  I 
have  not  left  one  low  pedantry  for  another  and  if,  after  the  university 
classics,  there  are  not  the  Revolutionary  classics — with  red  head¬ 
masters  and  a  Jacobin  baccalaureate!”  The  intimate  despair  which 
fills  the  twelve  hundred  pages  of  Jacques  Vingtras  has  its  source  in 
this  suffering.  In  spite  of  all  his  love  and  all  his  hatred,  Valles  does 
not  belong  to  the  people  and  his  work,  too  broad  or  too  narrow,  will 
never  become  really  popular.  He  passed  through  the  Pension  Leg- 
nagna,  was  a  winner  of  prizes,  quite  like  Taine’s  Etienne  May  ran. 
Valles  is  an  insurgent,  an  irreconcilable,  not  a  workman.  However 
cruelly  he  may  have  wounded  his  contemporaries,  he  was  unable  to 
satisfy  his  rancour  on  them ;  and  it  was  his  own  proud  poverty  he 
brought  to  the  “great  confederation  of  sorrows.” 


CHAPTER  V 


ORIGINS  OF  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA 

THERE  is  an  immediate  notoriety  in  theatrical  manifestations 
and  the  victories  which  a  literary  school  wins  on  the  stage  are 
in  a  way  its  public  trophies.  In  the  applause  it  hears  the 
supreme  confirmation  of  its  action  on  the  crowd.  We  have  told  how 
the  Naturalists  had  tried  to  conquer  the  theatre.  It  was  a  partial 
success,  soon  compromised  as  other  influences  made  themselves  felt. 
In  1889  appeared  the  translation  of  two  plays  by  Ibsen:  Ghosts  and 
The  Doll’s  Home.  Three  years  later,  Lugne-Poe  was  to  place  his 
Maison  de  I’CEuvre  under  the  asgis  of  the  Scandinavian  symbolist. 
Moreover  the  Theatre  Libre  itself  was  not  bound  to  any  theory.  It 
was  indeed  asserted  that  “Antoine  was  the  prisoner  of  a  little  band  of 
ultra-Naturalistic  writers”;  but  “it  was  impossible  to  make  a  graver 
mistake  with  regard  to  Antoine’s  mentality.”  We  borrow  this  testi¬ 
mony  from  Francis  de  Curel  whose  work,  representative  of  everything 
this  conventional  Antoine  was  supposed  to  hate,  was  revealed  by  the 
real  Antoine. 

1.  FRAN90IS  DE  CURED  AND  THE  DRAMA  OF  IDEAS 

If  an  election  were  held  to  designate  a  “prince”  of  French  play¬ 
wrights  of  the  last  thirty  years,  Francis  de  Curel  would  without  the 
least  doubt  be  elected.  Even  those  who  cannot  give  him  their  love 
would  not  begrudge  him  this  homage  of  their  admiration.  From  his 
first  play  he  assured  himself  an  exceptional  situation.  Perhaps  he  is 
not  mistaken  when  he  states  he  has  since  evolved ;  but  he  has  evolved  in 
accordance  with  his  own  law,  without  seeking  to  satisfy  any  other  judge 
than  his  own  exacting  logic. 

Born  at  Metz,  heir  of  a  noble  family  of  the  Bar  and  of  a  family  of 
big  manufacturers,  Francis  de  Curel  has  often  expressed  his  amusement 
at  the  impotent  efforts  of  journalists  to  reconcile  the  picture  of  this 
intrepid,  jovial  huntsman  with  the  legendary  figure  of  him  who  was 
once  called  the  French  Ibsen.  Quite  wrongly,  moreover,  for  Curel’s 
intentions  are  always  perfectly  clear.  It  is  by  no  means  from  this  ex¬ 
ternal  duality  that  springs  the  difficulty,  the  embarrassment  which 

often  accompanies  the  enthusiasm  aroused  by  the  performance  of  his 

80 


ORIGINS  OF  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  81 

plays :  “What  would  you  say,”  he  asks,  “of  a  hybrid  soul  in  which  the 
meditative  curiosity  of  a  Montaigne  was  linked  with  the  fantastic 
flight  of  a  Musset?”  This  definition  of  Curel  by  himself  is  somewhat 
surprising.  One  feels  there  are  other  names  than  Musset’s  which 
would  indicate  more  clearly  the  second  tendency  to  which  he  alludes. 
Such  as  it  is,  this  sentence  at  least  aids  us  to  understand  why,  in  spite 
of  so  many  and  so  pressing  entreaties,  Curel  has  always  refused  to 
treat  in  psychological  novels  the  subjects  for  which  his  intelligence 
imperiously  demanded  the  life  of  the  stage,  more  concentrated,  more 
incisive,  more  “passionate.”  “The  theatre !  The  theatre !  Monsieur 
de  Curel !”  Charles  Maurras  was  right  when  he  thus  advised  the 
author  of  Le  Sauvetage  du  Grand-Due ;  but  he  scarcely  suspected  that 
the  “unfortunate  vaudevillist”  whom  he  addressed  was  to  make  his 
first  appearance  in  the  world  of  letters  with  L’Envers  d’une  sainte. 

In  this  play,  which  had  first  been  called  L’Ortie,  Curel  depicted  a 
“woman  who  was  voluntarily  a  saint,  unconsciously  criminal,  sacri¬ 
ficed  and  impassioned,  desired  by  man  and  confiscated  by  God.” 
Without  acting,  by  her  sole  entreaties,  this  Julie  endangers  the  happi¬ 
ness  of  all  the  creatures  with  whom  she  comes  into  contact,  whether  she 
ensnares  them  by  love  or  by  intelligence.  The  character  is  drawn  with 
an  inexorable  logic  still  further  heightened  by  the  psychological  ab¬ 
ruptness  imposed  by  the  theatre.  In  a  desire  for  justice,  Curel,  when 
altering  this  play,  modified  one  scene  in  which  Julie  frankly  gave  way 
to  revenge  and  “tasted  an  infernal  pleasure.”  He  by  no  means  at¬ 
tenuated  its  heroic  bitterness.  The  greatness  of  this  drama  which 
Sarcey  declared  “screamingly  funny”  and  Lemaitre  “of  an  exquisite 
quality”  is  inseparable  from  a  certain  ferocity.  Did  not  Francis  de 
Curel  say,  in  La  Nouvelle  Idole,  that  the  way  of  every  thinker  is 
paved  with  corpses? 

Les  Fossiles  is  one  of  the  most  popular  of  his  works.  The  picture  is 
broader.  It  is  that  of  a  “mortal  winter,”  of  the  convulsions  of  a  dying 
nobility  for  which  the  author  has  no  blind  adoration  but  which  owes 
it  to  itself  to  pass  away  gracefully,  at  the  head  of  the  modern  world, 
“leaving  the  same  impression  of  greatness  as  the  gigantic  fossils  evok¬ 
ing  bygone  ages.”  This  play  combines  all  the  characteristics  of  a 
work  by  Curel :  a  central  idea  translated  into  images  which  suggest 
eloquent  speeches  on  the  symbolic  sea  and  forest;  a  poetic  setting  (in 
this  case  the  Ardennes)  or  one  poetized  by  its  correspondence  with  the 
sentiments  evoked ;  characters  for  whom  the  dramatic  incident  is  but 
the  concrete  manifestation  of  a  mental  law.  Now  a  drama  thus 
conceived  certainly  does  not  develop  without  difficulty.  Helene  is 
merely  a  dramatic  dummy,  indispensable  but  unconvincing.  The  last 


82  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

act  of  Les  Fossiles  is  purely  oratorical  and  one  feels  the  author  speak¬ 
ing.  Curel  is  not  ignorant  of  the  danger,  in  such  plays,  of  action  and 
ideas  conflicting.  He  admits  that  success  in  this  field  always  has  some¬ 
thing  “miraculous”  about  it.  Is  it  not  much  to  have  accomplished  this 
miracle  in  the  first  three  acts  where  the  Duke,  Robert  and  Claire, 
serving  the  same  god,  clash  with  pathetic  rage  even  in  his  moments 
of  supreme  inhumanity? 

L’Invitee  marks  a  lessening  of  the  tension.  It  is  easier  to  under¬ 
stand  and  achieved  a  great  success.  Putting  aside  the  difficult  postu¬ 
late,  it  will  be  possible  to  see  in  it  merely  a  comedy  of  a  mother  who, 
long  driven  from  the  home,  returns  and,  thanks  to  her  daughters, 
plays  an  excellent  trick  on  her  husband  and  this  idiot’s  mistress.  The 
naive  bewilderment  of  this  worthy  man  when  he  discovers  he  is  not  .  .  . 
what  for  fifteen  years  he  thought  he  was,  will  be  appreciated ;  but,  on 
closer  examination,  there  will  soon  be  felt  what  is  peculiar  to  Curel :  the 
infinite  melancholy  of  this  Anna  who  has  made  a  mess  of  her  life  and 
in  whom  nothing  any  longer  blossoms  spontaneously,  not  even  maternal 
love. 

Francis  de  Curel  is  not  regarded  as  a  painter  of  love.  This  prob¬ 
lem  could  not  leave  him  indifferent ;  but  it  presented  itself  in  the 
form  of  a  subject  “which  seemed  to  defy  him.”  He  had  treated 
it  in  Sauve  des  eaux  (1889)  which  he  rewrote  and  reproduced  in  1893 
under  the  title  U  Amour  brode  and  to  which,  in  1914,  he  gave  its 
final  form  in  La  Danse  devant  le  miroir.  The  essential  difference  be¬ 
tween  the  first  and  second  versions  was  the  significant  intervention  of 
an  idea,  that  of  the  love  lie.  Nevertheless  the  play  failed.  Lemaitre 
saw  in  it  “an  exceptional  psychology,  too  arbitrary,  seemingly,  for  the 
stage.”  Sarcey  treated  his  heroes  as  “complex  and  unexplained  Mari- 
vaudeurs.,,  Curel  finally  declared  it  “unacceptable”  and  treated  it  as 
a  preliminary  sketch  for  La  Danse.  This  withdraws  from  us  the 
right  to  discuss  it.  Yet  it  would  be  unjust  not  to  say  that,  though 
difficult  to  admit  on  the  stage  by  reason  of  the  capricious  violence  of  its 
psychological  shortcuts  and  that  fund  of  romanticism  whereby  Curel 
does  perhaps  resemble  the  Musset  he  invokes,  U  Amour  brode  delights 
the  reader,  thanks  to  the  pitiless  tension  of  this  test  by  the  lie  in  which 
the  two  lovers  stand  face  to  face.  Possibly  this  trilogy  which  forms 
but  one  play  reflects  Curel’s  real  anguish  better  than  any  other  of  his 
works.  In  the  three  versions  the  woman  puts  the  capital  question  in  the 
last  act:  “Is  that  also  conventional,  artificial,  written?”  Gabrielle 
asked  Rene:  “Is  it  also  the  conventional,  the  artificial  which  makes 
you  so  sad?”  Gabrielle  repeats  to  Charles.  Similarly  Regime  will 
question  Paul:  “Is  it  the  artificial,  the  conventional  which  makes  us 


ORIGINS  OF  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  83 

so  sad?”  Is  it  doubt  of  love  alone  or  of  all  human  thought  which 
Curel  expresses  here? 

La  Figurante  is,  in  the  same  sense  as  L’lnvitee,  a  dramatic  comedy. 
It  was,  in  its  primitive  form,  the  first  play  Curel  sent  Antoine.  He 
worked  it  over,  with  his  admirable  tenacity  in  exhausting  all  the  pos¬ 
sibilities  of  a  subject,  in  order  to  attenuate  the  improbability  of  the 
initial  premise.  It  is  indeed  rather  rare  for  a  girl  to  accept  the  posi¬ 
tion  of  figure-head  wife  on  the  invitation  of  her  future  husband’s  mis¬ 
tress.  The  interest  of  the  play  lies  in  the  study  of  the  characters 
(particularly  that  of  the  old  savant  who  uses  the  three  others  as 
pawns),  in  the  authority  with  which  the  dramatist  develops  the  whole 
situation,  even  in  its  almost  farcical  aspects,  and  in  the  extraordinary 
flexibility  of  ,the  dialogue ;  but  however  savoury  the  strategy  which  op¬ 
poses  the  coalition  of  Fran9oise  and  her  uncle  to  the  alliance  of  the 
two  lovers,  it  is  almost  exclusively  the  qualities  of  virtuosity  which 
triumph  in  La  Figurante. 

It  is  not  the  same  with  La  Nouvelle  I  dole  and  Le  Repas  du  Lion 
which  are  less  two  plays  than  two  ample  frescoes  of  contemporary  so¬ 
ciety.  Le  Repas  du  Lion  commands  respect  by  the  generosity  of  its 
inspiration,  its  loyalty  in  conducting  a  discussion  careful  to  present  the 
most  conflicting  points  of  view.  Its  protagonist,  Jean,  having  dra¬ 
matically  vowed  to  devote  himself  to  the  workingmen,  believes  at  first 
he  can  help  them  through  Catholic  social  organizations.  Then,  having 
seen  his  mistake,  when  the  murder  of  his  brother-in-law,  the  employer, 
has  freed  him  from  the  remorse  of  having  caused  the  death  of  a  work¬ 
man,  he  discovers  he  will  be  more  useful  to  them  by  becoming  their 
leader.  This  play,  in  which  Curel  (who  was  never  personally  engaged 
in  industry  but  was  connected  with  it  in  numerous  ways)  was  the  first 
to  introduce  the  social  question  on  the  stage,  traces  the  development  of 
this  character  who  was  vital  and  representative  enough  for  Albert  de 
Mun  to  have  found  in  him  points  of  resemblance  with  himself.  The 
characters  of  the  other  “lions,”  captains  of  industry  or  leaders  of  the 
workers,  are  also  vigorously  depicted;  but,  because  of  its  very  scope, 
of  its  ambition  to  be  complete,  the  second  part  of  this  work  goes  be¬ 
yond  the  theatre  and  the  author  himself  admits  it :  “The  first  act 
interprets,  not  the  meditations  of  a  thinker,  but  the  fury  of  a  her¬ 
mit  who  foresees  that  his  desert  is  to  be  invaded  and  soiled;  and  it  is 
this  seductive  act  which  pleases  everybody.  So  true  is  it  that  the  idea 
is  powerful  only  when  guided  by  passion.”  Following  the  dress  re¬ 
hearsal  he  had  modified  his  play  in  favour  of  a  denouement  “in  which 
thought  seeks  vainly  to  flower  on  the  barren  soil  of  melodrama.” 
He  gave  it  up  and,  in  the  last  revision,  as  if  the  performance  had  been 


84  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

but  a  sort  of  test  for  this  readjustment,  he  strove  to  be  merely 
fair-minded,  faithful  to  the  idea  of  his  drama.  In  this  ultimate  form 
“Le  Repas  du  Lion  which  has  stated  so  many  problems  and  solved  none 
of  them,  ends  on  a  new  note  of  interrogation”  ;  but  even  more  than  in 
1897  does  it  deserve  Faguet’s  judgment:  “A  great  poem  betrayed  by 
the  theatre.” 

La  Nouvelle  Idole,  on  the  contrary,  calls  for  none  of  these  reserves, 
and  no  play  by  Curel  has  been  more  docile  to  his  principle  of  “resolv¬ 
ing  delicate  situations  by  catastrophes  of  ideas  instead  of  placing  the 
coups  de  theatre  in  the  facts.”  Here  are  three  beings  who  personify 
three  ideals:  religious  faith,  faith  in  love,  faith  in  science.  At  first 
they  clash.  Then  each  is  led  to  understand  the  greatness  of  the  others 
and  the  struggle  becomes  but  a  “rivalry  in  generosity.”  Their 
anxious  inquiry  continues  through  intensely  salient  scenes  like  the 
dialogue  between  the  two  savants  in  the  second  act  where  the  images 
and  symbols  blossom  naturally — witness  the  perfect  passage  on  the 
water-lilies.  It  ends,  like  Le  Repas  du  Lion,  in  an  atmosphere  of  se¬ 
renity,  above  all  conflicts ;  but  a  serenity  to  which  an  approaching 
death,  voluntarily  accepted,  adds  a  note  of  restrained  pathos. 

Its  hero,  after  all,  is  exceptional  in  this  only  that  he  devotes  his  life 
to  problems  of  which  others  think  but  incidentally.  Yet  none  of  his 
anguish  can  leave  thinking  humanity  indifferent.  Without  sacrific¬ 
ing  any  of  his  lofty  greatness,  Francois  de  Curel  has  realized  in  La 
Nouvelle  Idole  that  balance  between  the  plot  and  the  idea  which  he 
called  miraculous. 


2.  THE  PSYCHOLOGICAL  DRAMA 

When  he  gave  the  reading  public  of  1920  a  volume  entitled  Anatomie 
sentimentale,  composed  of  fragments  of  his  works  “arranged  like  a 
series  of  pictures,”  Georges  de  Porto-Riche  rendered  very  exact  justice 
to  that  “love  drama,”  to  that  drama  which  is  and  wishes  to  be  merely 
a  study  of  the  love  problem  such  as  “man’s  perpetual  gallantry  and 
woman’s  deep  sensibility  present  it  to  our  epoch.”  In  the  duel  he  has 
observed  so  minutely  Porto-Riche  does  not  conceal  that  his  sympathies 
are  with  “the  woman  whose  sad  lot  it  is  to  suffer.  For,  in  France,  the 
man  is  seldom  in  love.  He  is  scarcely  sensual.”  One  sees  the  narrow¬ 
ness  of  the  field  in  which  he  confines  the  two  opponents,  excluding  in 
the  woman  every  feeling  other  than  love,  rejecting  in  the  man  every 
intellectual  effort  not  directed  toward  love. 

That  there  is  a  family  resemblance  among  all  Porto-Riche’s  plays  is 
very  evident ;  but  the  author  is  by  no  means  wrong  in  distinguishing 
in  this  succession  a  gradation.  La  Chance  de  Franqoise  undertakes 


ORIGINS  OF  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  85 

to  destroy  the  belief  that  happiness  is  possible  in  love.  Franchise  has 
married  Marcel.  Thanks  to  her  good  luck  she  keeps  him,  in  spite  of  all 
his  wishes  to  betray  her ;  but  what  a  tottering,  precarious  triumph ! 
Like  Therese  in  Le  Vieil  Homme  Framboise  might  sadly  conclude: 
“As  long  as  you  are  young  enough  to  be  loved,  I  shall  be  young  enough 
to  suffer.”  L’ Inf  dele,  which  takes  place  in  a  conventional  Venetian 
setting  and  to  which  the  verses  add  no  poetry,  carries  this  idea  one 
step  further.  In  vain  will  the  woman  whose  lover  is  tired  of  her  try  to 
arouse  his  jealousy.  This  will  even  turn  against  her.  Amowreuse 
finally  sums  up,  in  a  more  striking  form,  the  theme  of  the  two  plays 
which  preceded  it.  Germaine  loves  her  husband,  Etienne.  Then, 
gradually,  by  the  simple  play  of  his  own  selfishness,  he  comes  to  endure 
this  devotion  as  a  tyranny.  Love  renders  clumsy  the  woman  who  loves 
and  cruel  the  man  who  suffers  that  love  with  impatience.  It  leads  them 
to  the  worst  disasters  and  comforts  them,  as  enemies,  in  mutual  revolt. 

Le  Passe,  which  is  probably  Porto-Riche’s  most  perfect  work,  makes 
it  possible  to  state  clearly  the  capital  problem  of  his  art.  The  man 
here  is  called  Francois  Prieur.  He  is  the  professional  lover,  elegant, 
a  smooth  talker,  who  lies,  lies,  lies  desperately,  who  is  tormented  by  a 
ceaselessly  recurrent  desire  for  amorous  seduction  and  who  scorns  the 
momentary  object  of  this  desire  as  soon  as  he  has  gratified  it.  He  is 
surrounded  by  a  group  of  friends  who  are  quite  capable  of  insulting 
him  in  his  absence  but  who  are  less  devoid  of  scruples  merely  because 
they  have  not  the  scope  of  this  modern  Don  Juan.  His  victim,  Domi¬ 
nique,  is  presented  as  “a  daughter  of  Racine,”  a  definition  which  permits 
us  to  specify  a  misunderstanding.  That  Musset,  Marivaux  and  Ra¬ 
cine  are  Porto-Riche’s  masters  no  one  will  deny,  but  on  condition 
of  indicating  the  differences  and  why  Racine’s  heroines  are  far 
more  varied  and  harmonious.  Their  vital  force  comes  from  the  fact 
they  are  by  no  means  obsessed  by  a  single  point  of  view.  Now 
it  will  readily  be  admitted  that  there  has  been,  from  the  time  of 
Racine  to  that  of  Porto-Riche,  a  moral  slackening  (between  Pauline 
and  Phedre  there  is  already  an  analogous  relaxing  of  rigid  principles), 
even  a  diminution  of  grace  in  favour  of  frankness ;  but  one  would 
wish  then  that  the  concern  for  duty  and  for  glory  which  entered  into 
conflict  with  love  in  the  seventeenth  century  had  been  replaced,  at  the 
end  of  the  nineteenth,  by  the  preoccupations  of  a  modern  intelligence. 
Now  there  is  nothing  of  the  sort  in  Dominique,  Germaine  or  Fran^ise. 
By  dint  of  holding  undisputed  sway  in  these  souls,  love  has  become  re¬ 
duced  to  the  fixed  idea  of  physical  possession.  It  is  not  by  chance  that 
the  revolt  which  frees  Dominique  from  the  past  is  brought  about  by  her 
lover’s  proposal  to  lead  her  to  the  bed  where  he  has  possessed  his  for- 


86  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

mer  mistress.  The  struggle  may  gain  in  sharpness  thereby ;  but  it 
loses  in  breadth  and  characters  so  voluntarily  incomplete  remain,  as  a 
consequence,  tainted  with  a  touch  of  the  arbitrary. 

The  abnormal  proportions  and  the  symbolical  aims  of  Le  Vieil 
Homme  should  not  mislead.  The  struggle  remains  the  same.  It  in¬ 
volves  a  woman  who  loves,  has  been  deceived,  has  forgiven  and  sees  her 
husband  fall  in  love  with  a  chance  acquaintance.  She  eagerly  defends 
what  is  hers.  The  presence  of  a  child  who  begins  like  Cherubin  and 
ends  like  Werther  merely  renders  concrete  here  the  fatality  of 
passion.  Augustin  is  the  “host”  of  a  new  sacrifice;  but  the  postulate 
has  not  changed.  Therese,  even  after  her  son’s  death,  cannot  live 
without  Michel’s  body.  For,  accepting  Constant’s  epigram,  love — 
a  fever  in  one  sex  and  a  normal  state  in  the  other — by  no  means  pre¬ 
vents  that,  by  limiting  his  portrayal  of  humanity  to  love  (in  which  he 
declares  man  is  inferior),  Porto-Riche  also  diminishes  woman  as  a  con¬ 
sequence.  By  intentionally  neglecting  all  the  seductions  which,  without 
being  properly  speaking  love  itself,  can  make  a  man  love,  Porto- 
Riche  leaves  his  heroines  no  other  guide  than  physical  attraction  and, 
involuntarily,  he  calumniates  their  finest  aberrations.  It  is  easy  then 
to  explain  the  denouement  of  Le  Marchand  d’estampes.  Daniel  has 
revealed  to  his  wife  that  he  loves  another.  They  have  fought  together 
against  this  passion.  In  vain!  Fanny  cannot  make  him  forget  her 
rival.  She  succeeds  with  difficulty  in  preventing  him  from  going  to 
join  her.  He  stays  then  desperate,  determined  on  suicide.  She 
throws  herself  with  him  into  the  Seine,  without  this  common  death  being 
able  to  reunite  them.  Porto-Riche’s  art  has  not  recoiled  before  its 
logical,  inhuman  consequence. 

It  is  easier  to  conceive,  after  a  detailed  study  of  this  dramatic  pro¬ 
duction,  the  value  of  the  Anatomie  sentimentale  and  why  isolated  scenes 
in  it  are  preferable  to  the  complete  plays.  The  arbitrary  character  of 
the  construction  is  less  obvious  here.  Care  must  however  be  taken 
not  to  relegate  Porto-Riche’s  work  to  the  library.  The  stage  alone 
can  full}7  manifest  its  literary  qualities.  The  dialogue  usually  keeps 
a  perfect  ease  and  theatrical  expressions  are  rare.  Psychological  deli¬ 
cacies  constantly  charm  the  mind,  taking  spontaneously  the  form  of 
an  unexpected  and  definitive  rejoinder:  “Are  not  all  chai’ms  to  be 
found  in  your  heart?”  Augustin  asks  his  mother.  “But  it  is  another’s 
face  you  want,”  she  answers,  sadly.  In  great  crises  these  phrases 
multiply  with  a  clairvoyant  frankness,  creating  an  atmosphere  of  tense 
passion  in  which  hearts  are  laid  bare,  in  which  are  ruthlessly  revealed 
the  desires  but  exceptionally  disclosed  by  a  disciplined  humanity  in  this 
state  of  elementary  purity ;  and  above  these  sharp  cries  passes  at 


ORIGINS  OF  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  87 

times  a  breeze  of  pity  for  all  this  suffering  inevitably  provoked  by  love. 
“Take  my  word,”  says  Fanny  to  Daniel,  “let  us  remain  good  friends. 
We  have  so  much  to  suffer,  both  of  us,  and  because  of  each  other.” 
Too  exclusively  prisoners  of  love  to  know  the  sharp  awakening  of  a 
Princesse  de  Cleves  or  of  a  Julien  Sorel  and  not  sufficiently  lost  in 
amorous  enchantment  to  experience  the  ecstasies  of  Tristan  and  Isolde, 
Porto-Riche’s  men  and  women  sometimes  find  such  moments  of  melan¬ 
choly  appeasement  in  their  great  sorrow. 

Jules  Lemaitre’s  tastes  were  too  undulating  for  him  not  to  have  been 
tempted  by  the  stage  as  he  had  been  by  poetry  and  the  novel;  but  he 
brought  to  the  theatre  not  so  much  the  tense  will  of  a  creator  as  the 
nonchalant  observation  of  the  critic.  Revoltee,  Marriage  blanc  and 
L’Aine  owe  their  value — and  particularly  when  read — to  the  same 
tender,  scrupulous  delicacy  which  lent  a  quiet  charm  to  the  best  of  his 
poetic  confidences. 

Maurice  Donnay  .is,  on  the  contrary,  an  homme  de  theatre.  He 
never  totally  repudiated  his  beginnings  with  Lysistrata  in  which,  on  the 
Aristophanic  theme,  he  embroidered  the  arabesques  of  the  Chat  Noir — 
a  type  of  play  which  can  be  made  over  and  brought  up  to  date  at  each 
revival.  All  Donnay’s  works  are  limited  by  this  eternal  sacrifice  to 
current  interest,  by  his  preoccupation  with  giving  immediate  pleasure 
to  the  public  of  the  moment.  Amants — the  picture  of  a  sincere  at¬ 
tempt  at  love  in  an  artificial  atmosphere  and  of  characters  not 
sufficiently  depraved  for  every  kind  of  cowardice  without  being 
strong  enough  for  great  sacrifices — gives  a  fairly  accurate  idea  of  his 
manner.  The  plot  is  conducted  very  slowly,  the  characters  studied 
indirectly,  with  an  air  of  anticipatory  distaste  for  all  true  grandeur. 

The  author  relies  on  the  charm  of  his  dialogue  which  is  witty  and 
spirited,  which  amuses  the  spectator  for  an  evening  but  could  not 
stand  the  test  of  deep  meditation. 

This  inadequacy  appeared  more  clearly  in  the  plays  which  followed. 
Their  documentary  value  concerning  questions  which  moved  public 
opinion  at  the  moment  of  their  production  is  undeniable.  La  Doulo'w- 
reuse  and  L’Affranchie  shed  light  upon  the  effeteness  of  society  at  the 
end  of  the  century  and  upon  the  tone  of  feminist  discussions.  Unfortu¬ 
nately  they  do  not  rise  above  this  level,  either  through  the  plot  based 
upon  the  conventional  psychology  of  an  artificial  environment  and  ad¬ 
mitting  solutions  convenient  rather  than  necessary,  or  through  the  im¬ 
portance  of  the  principal  characters  who  do  not  so  much  develop  as 
take  advantage  of  theatrically  pathetic  situations  as  they  arise. 
Georgette  Lemeunier  and  Le  Torrent  still  skirt  the  great  themes  con- 


88  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

flict  between  love  and  money,  the  hardness  of  inflexible  marriage,  the 
problem  of  the  child,  the  demoralizing  influence  of  luxury ;  but  Donnay 
hesitates  between  the  play  which  pleases  the  public  and  that  which 
shocks  it.  In  the  end  he  stops  at  the  formula  of  a  play  in  which  the 
struggle  reduces  itself  to  a  combat  between  the  public  passivity  and  the 
temperament  of  the  interpreters.  He  gives  the  latter  long  speeches  to 
which  their  action  can  lend  an  air  of  boldness.  He  flatters  the  audi¬ 
ence  with  a  picture  very  attentive  to  their  passing  tastes,  from  the 
fashionable  author  to  the  fashionable  cocktail. 

The  plays  of  those  who  might,  after  Porto-Riche,  be  the  representa¬ 
tives  of  the  psychological  drama,  do  not  seem  to  succeed  in  throwing 
off  this  tyranny  of  current  interest,  without  falling  into  the  problem 
play.  In  studying  contemporary  drama  we  shall  see  that  such  weak¬ 
ness  has  never  allowed  Maurice  Donnay  to  go  beyond  the  fanciful 
comedy  of  which  his  Education  de  Prince  remains  the  type,  and  that  it 
has  also  prevented  Alfred  Capus  and  Henri  Lavedan  from  attaining, 
even  in  their  most  ambitious  works,  an  indisputable  human  reality. 

3.  THE  PEOBIEM  PLAY 

Is  that  “truth”  in  the  name  of  which  all  dramatic  revolutions  are 
brought  about,  to  be  found  in  the  problem  play?  It  is  a  title  which 
must  first  be  defined.  The  problem  play  is  more  than  a  play  with  a 
purpose  and  however  one-sided  they  may  be,  the  tragedies  of  Euripides 
are  by  no  means  problem  plays.  The  problem  play  distinguishes  itself 
from  the  drama  of  ideas  (of  the  Curel  type)  by  being  less  interested  in 
an  eternal  passion  than  in  a  contemporary  social  difficulty.  Augier 
and  Dumas  fils  had  given  its  first  models,  Dumas  especially  in  his  last 
plays  where  the  Boulevard  spirit  becomes  apocalyptic.  Becque’s 
cold  realism  had  damped  these  impetuous  enthusiasms.  Dumas’s  heirs 
no  longer  proclaimed  themselves  avengers  but  doers  of  justice. 

Paul  Hervieu  began  simultaneously  as  novelist  and  as  playwright; 
but  the  severe  critic  of  the  aristocratic  life  described  in  Peints  par  eux- 
memes  and  V Armature  seemed  also  to  construct  his  novels  like  plays, 
with  the  same  vigour  which  characterized  Les  Paroles  restent,  La  Loi  de 
I’liomme  and  Les  Tenailles.  Strength  and  logic — such  were  the  quali¬ 
ties  praised  by  his  admirers.  They  also  extolled  in  him  a  certain  dra¬ 
matic  nudity  where  they  claimed  to  find  an  echo  of  classical  tragedy. 

Looking  back  we  must  abate  considerably.  Not  that  Hervieu’s 
theatrical  conception  is  in  itself  inacceptable.  The  abstract  setting  in 
which  it  pleases  him  to  place  his  principal  characters  is  not  incom¬ 
patible  with  greatness ;  but  it  must  be  animated  by  deep  feeling.  Aus¬ 
terity  is  admissible  provided  life  is  not  allowed  to  escape.  The  draw- 


ORIGINS  OP  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  89 

back  is  that,  when  studied,  Hervieu’s  drama  entirely  excludes  the  ele¬ 
ment  of  mystery  in  which  had  resided  the  power  of  his  novel,  L’Inconnu, 
and  reveals  an  aridity  over  which  the  devices  of  a  clumsy  practitioner 
cast  but  little  illusion.  His  plays  are  too  often  constructed  upon  the 
same  schematic  basis:  man  and  wife  bound  together;  union  complicated 
by  a  child  and  a  lover;  no  legal  means  of  uniting  these  four  factors  in  a 
satisfactory  equation.  Hervieu  strives  ingeniously  but  in  vain  to  hide 
the  mediocre  value  of  this  matter.  In  Les  Paroles  restent  he  revives, 
under  the  aspect  of  the  old  doctor  Dubois,  the  ancient  chorus.  In 
La  Loi  de  Vhomme  he  resorts  to  a  parallelism  from  which  Shakespeare 
derived  one  of  the  most  powerful  effects  in  King  Lear:  d’Orcien  deceived 
by  his  wife,  and  Laure  de  Raguais  deceived  by  her  husband,  forgive  be¬ 
cause  of  the  child.  In  Les  Tenailles  he  utilizes  the  law  which  is  a  cheap 
and  surely  very  precarious  fatality.  There  is,  throughout  these  plays, 
a  poverty  and  a  conventionality  in  the  invention  which  can  only  be 
compared  with  the  mixture  of  platitudes  and  bombast  uttered  by  the 
characters.  Everything  in  them  is  contrived  with  a  view  to  theatrical 
optics  in  a  repulsive  spirit  of  economy.  Incidental  detail:  Hervieu, 
upholder  of  the  family,  always  conceives  it  as  reduced  to  one  child, 
“the  child,”  just  enough  child  to  complicate  the  drama  of  adultery  and 
to  permit  great  laws  of  nature  to  be  evoked.  Hervieu  never,  even  in 
La  Course  du  Flambeau  and  Le  Dedale,  succeeds  in  freeing  himself 
from  these  conventions. 

Brieux’s  effort  is  less  pretentious  but  more  frankly  honest.  Blanch¬ 
ette  had,  as  early  as  1892,  shown  him  capable  of  constructing  a  good 
bourgeois  play  which  would  have  touched  Diderot’s  heart.  One  might 
have  foreseen  from  this  writer  a  series  of  realistic  pictures  as  useful 
to  the  representation  of  an  epoch  as  the  broad  Balzacian  frescoes 
thenceforth  undertaken  by  Emile  Fabre.  Unfortunately  Brieux  let 
himself  be  carried  away  by  the  idea  of  the  problem  play.  He  brought 
to  it  sincere  moral  and  social  considerations ;  but  with  La  Robe  rouge 
his  faults  became  fully  apparent:  absence  of  psychological  shadings, 
mechanical  constructions,  easy  emotion,  abuse  of  lecture-like  speeches, 
prosaic  inspiration  and  style.  Even  when  animated  with  the  most 
generous  intentions,  the  problem  play,  reduced  to  concealing  its  virtu¬ 
ous  aims  beneath  a  scandalous  title,  turned  manifestly  to  the  tedious 
lesson  and  ended  in  a  blind  alley. 

4.  LIGHT  COMEDY 

During  this  period  a  man  showed  there  was  room  in  light  comedy  for 
something  other  than  the  wastrels  depicted  in  Le  Nouveau  Jeu  by 
Henri  Lavedan  (not  yet  a  hermit)  and  the  puppets  in  whom  Alfred 


£>0  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  literature 

Capus  embodied  for  a  few  evenings  his  nonchalant  optimism.  Mo- 
liere  has  often  been  evoked  in  connection  with  Georges  Courteline.  He 
himself  has  given  some  consistency  to  this  comparison  by  adding  a 
sixth  act  to  Le  Misanthrope  with  La  Conversion  d’Alceste,  a  somewhat 
sombre,  rather  affected  pastiche  in  which  the  author  gives  us  above  all 
the  uneasiness  of  Sunday  clothes. 

For  it  is  precisely  his  natural  ease  we  love  in  Courteline,  his  rich, 
racy  observation,  that  hatred  of  the  didactic,  in  short,  which  is  equally 
opposed  to  the  emphasis  of  Alceste  and  to  the  complacency  of  Philinte. 
At  an  epoch  when  so  many  playwrights  have  yielded  to  the  temptation 
of  transforming  the  theatre  into  a  pulpit,  Courteline  has  kept  life  there 
in  the  foreground.  He  does  not  deny  the  spectator  the  right  to  reflect, 
once  the  curtain  has  fallen,  or  to  find  matter  for  meditation  even  in 
the  most  ludicrous  situations  which  have  passed  on  the  stage ;  but  he 
desires  that  in  his  work  the  lesson  should  remain  implicit,  as  in  life. 
Hence  his  taste  for  sketches  like  Le  Droit  anx  etrennes  and  Les  Boulin- 
grin  where  fancy  abandons  itself  to  every  violent  extravagance,  where 
the  comic  is  physical,  awakening  in  us  the  profound  hilarity  of  children 
who  see  Punch  thrash  the  policeman. 

Courteline  has  kept  something  of  this  instinctive  disposition  to  jeer 
at  authority.  The  mediaeval  mysteries  poke  good  fun  at  the  devil.  A 
power,  even  if  it  be  redoubtable,  always  invites  mockery.  The  light¬ 
hearted  story-teller  of  Les  Gaites  de  Vescadron  and  Le  Train  de  8  h.  1^7 
was  also  to  be  the  painter  of  Messieurs  les  Rond-de-Cuir.  Everything 
that  is  officially  organized,  military  or  bureaucratic,  finds  itself,  for  this 
very  reason,  subject  to  laws  necessarily  lagging  behind  manners  and 
customs.  The  absurdity  of  regulations  and  the  little  oddities  of  in¬ 
dividuals  forms  a  double  quarry  for  the  comic  author.  A  sharp  satire 
on  institutions  should  not  be  sought  in  Courteline.  Le  Commissaire  est 
bon  enfant,  Le  Gendarme  est  sans  pitie,  Une  Lettre  chargee  and  Hor- 
tense,  couche-toi  are  constructed  in  accordance  with  the  two-beat 
rhythm.  In  the  first  part,  one  character  tyrannizes  over  the  others 
and,  strong  in  the  power  which  the  law,  literally  interpreted,  confers 
upon  him,  refuses  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  his  common  sense.  He  is  con¬ 
founded  in  the  end,  because  someone  confronts  him  with  an  article  of 
the  Code  which,  taken  with  the  same  literalness,  overwhelms  him  in  his 
turn,  this  text  moreover  being  conceivably  identical  in  both  cases.  It 
sometimes  happens,  as  shown  in  Un  Client  serieux,  that  injustice  mani¬ 
festly  triumphs ;  but  there  is  left  us  the  resource  of  laughing  at  it. 
For  anyone  who  is  not  abnormally  unskilful,  there  are  ways  of  swaying 
the  incorruptible  Labourbourax.  One  is  not  considered  mad  so  long 
as  one  does  not  trouble  the  policeman  of  one’s  quarter.  You  will  de- 


ORIGINS  OF  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  91 

cide,  according  to  your  temperament,  whether  this  conclusion  is  alarm¬ 
ing  or  reassuring. 

It  would  be  singularly  to  diminish  Courteline’s  work  to  reduce  it  to 
a  satire  of  judicial  or  administrative  pettinesses.  It  is  humanity 
he  shows  in  action,  even  in  rapid  sketches  like  La  Voiture  versee  or 
La  Pear  des  coups  which,  like  certain  of  Moliere’s  farces,  are  sum¬ 
maries  of  psychological  gradations  more  minutely  detailed  in  other 
works.  Courteline  has,  in  Boubouroche,  drawn  an  unforgettable  pic¬ 
ture  of  his  humanity.  It  is  commonplace.  Let  a  great  crisis  arrive, 
man’s  eternal  weakness  and  the  ineradicable  self-esteem  which  blinds 
him  to  the  evident  treachery  will  be  observed.  Resigned  or  aggressive, 
woman’s  cowardice,  her  shy,  childish  soul  will  always  be  found. 
As  Courteline  sees  it  in  1893,  so  he  still  paints  it  in  La  Paix  chez 
soi  in  1908,  and  in  La  Cruche  in  1909.  It  is  true,  in  the  last  two 
pieces,  he  accords  one  of  his  actors  the  lucid  consciousness  of  this 
“misery” ;  but  their  clear-sightedness  remains  passive,  does  not  rebel  to 
shake  off  the  stupid  yoke  of  everyday  life. 

A  pessimistic  conception,  it  will  be  said.  By  no  means.  Several 
species  of  men  and  women  coexist  in  humanity.  Courteline  has  ob¬ 
served  one  of  them,  has  depicted  it  perfectly,  leaving  the  others  intact. 
The  result  proved  he  had  chosen  skilfully.  His  Alceste  is  but  a  pup¬ 
pet,  his  Boubouroche  is  a  lasting  creation.  Boubouroche  lives  by  that 
gift,  possessed  by  Courteline,  of  representing  a  being  completely 
adapted  to  his  environment  or  to  his  function:  the  gendarme  Labour- 
bourax,  the  plaintiff  La  Brige.  The  two  acts  of  the  masterpiece  of 
which  Boubouroche  is  the  protagonist  manifest  two  different  aspects  of 
a  single  talent.  Nothing  is  more  inimitably  natural  than  the  game 
of  manille  where,  in  the  setting  of  the  little  cafe  which  is  truly  his 
setting,  Boubouroche  appears  entirely  himself,  his  simplicity  inflated 
with  self-sufficiency  and  with  sentimentality.  Nothing  more  cleverly 
characterized  than  the  abruptly  shifting  farce  which  rushes  headlong 
through  the  second  act,  full  of  psychological  shortcuts  based  upon  a 
very  sure  observation  of  its  object.  The  combination  of  the  two 
qualities  exactly  defines  Georges  Courteline’s  comic  genius. 

5.  VERSE  DRAMA 

The  French  theatrical  public  has  a  taste  for  pageantry.  Hence  its 
affection  for  verse  drama  which,  since  the  Romantics,  is  generally  a 
compromise  between  pure  poetry  and  melodrama.  Coming  from  the 
pessimistic  pictures  presented  it  by  Becque  and  the  Theatre  Libre,  it 
asked  of  the  verse  drama  a  little  consolation  and  applauded  even  Fran¬ 
cois  Coppee’s  Pour  la  Couronne.  Edmond  Rostand  had  the  luck  to 


92  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

appear  at  the  most  favourable  moment  for  his  success  and  the  clever¬ 
ness  to  understand  it  at  once. 

He  had  begun  with  a  volume  of  verse,  Les  Musardises,  in  which  he 
displayed  the  same  preciousness  which  was  to  assure  the  fortune  of  his 
first  comedy,  Les  Romanesques.  An  analysis  of  its  subject  sums  up 
faithfully  enough  the  kind  of  imagination  peculiar  to  Rostand.  The 
hero  of  the  piece  is  a  wall  separating  two  houses  the  owners  of  Avhich 
have  but  one  desire,  to  unite  their  two  estates  and  to  live  on  friendly 
terms.  This  is  possible  only  through  the  marriage  of  their  children, 
too  romantic  to  accept  so  prosaic  a  solution.  Therefore  the  fathers 
simulate  hatred,  accumulating  false  obstacles.  Romantic  love  does 
its  work  and  casts  down  the  wall.  Soon  everyone  grows  tired  of  this 
calm  happiness.  The  lovers,  undeceived,  demand  the  really  romantic. 
The  wall,  rebuilt,  will  be  destroyed  again  and  for  good,  when  unhappy 
adventures  have  led  these  scatterbrains  to  recognize  the  value  of  a 
solid,  comfortable  reality. 

It  is  well  to  insist  upon  this  first  play  of  Rostand’s.  If  we  are  to 
take  his  word,  it  had  the  merit  of  bringing 

Un  repos  naif  des  pieces  ameres. 

Alas !  There  was,  in  his  case,  not  the  slightest  naivete  but  much  du¬ 
plicity,  an  extreme  skill  in  concealing  exceedingly  bourgeois  thoughts 
under  an  abundance  of  variations  the  lyricism  of  which  was  soon  ex¬ 
hausted.  At  first  sight  the  poems  interpolated  in  the  text,  the  tirades 
hung  on  picturesque  words — the  wall,  the  verse,  the  abduction — 
gave  fairly  well  the  impression  of  a  spontaneous  outburst.  Soon  the 
economy  of  this  factitious  wealth  was  perceived.  The  dense  bad  taste 
of  this  pretended  lightness  revealed  itself  in  disquieting  lapses : 

Dm  roman,  j’en  voulais  bien  un  peu 

Comme  on  met  du  laurier  dedans  le  pot-au-feu, 

said  Sylvette.  Did  she  wish  to  define  her  creator’s  poetry? 

Clearly  Rostand  was  at  ease  only  in  the  false.  An  instinct  warned 
him  of  it  and  impelled  him  to  the  painting  of  epochs  swayed  by  that 
subtle  bad  taste  which  is  the  flower  of  the  imagination  and  announces 
the  perfection  of  a  fine  classic  fruit ;  but,  powerless  to  recreate  sponta¬ 
neously  that  atmosphere  of  free  fantasy,  he  stopped  short  at  the  piti¬ 
ful  picturesqueness  which  makes  dinde  rhyme  with  Melissinde,  at  the 
arbitrary  psychology  of  the  knights  and  the  traitors  of  melodrama,  at 
the  sonorous,  vain  coups  de  theatre  which  the  crowd  expects  and  ap¬ 
plauds  in  advance. 

When  it  came  to  expressing  a  noble  sentiment,  his  genius  suggested 
to  him  merely  these  dreary  platitudes  ; 


ORIGINS  OF  THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  93 

.  .  .  Car  tout  rayon  qui  fltre,  d’ideal, 

Est  autant  de  gagne,  dans  Vame,  sur  le  mal. 

Je  vois  dans  tout  but  noble  un  but  plus  noble  poindre ; 

Car  lorsqu’on  eut  un  reve,  on  nen  prend  pas  un  moindre. 

Decidedly  everything  great  remained  foreign  to  Rostand.  His  Sa- 
maritaine  gave  the  decisive  proof.  In  that  gospel  in  three  tableaux — - 
which  is  to  a  sacred  drama  what  Massenet’s  Marie  Madeleine  is  to  one 
of  Bach’s  Passions — the  indigence  of  the  thought  vies  with  the  impro¬ 
priety  of  the  form,  and  the  result  would  be  odious  were  it  not  so  pro¬ 
foundly  ridiculous. 

In  Cyrano  de  Bergerac  Edmond  Rostand  is  found  intact.  Once 
more  the  ear  notes  in  passing  all  his  usual  defects:  false  picturesque¬ 
ness  ;  coarse,  easily  infallible  theatrical  effects ;  summary  psychology 
in  which  the  refinements  of  passion  are  cheaply  replaced  by  verbal 
elaboration.  As  for  the  poetic  vestment,  it  is  not  without  holes.  Pre¬ 
ciousness  and  vulgarity  alternate.  The  juggling  of  the  rhymes  puts 
up  with  far  from  witty  expedients.  Under  the  brilliant  flourish  of 
trumpets,  how  many  purely  oratorical  developments !  Yet  the  tri¬ 
umph  of  Cyrano  is  not  to  be  explained  by  external  causes  alone,  by  the 
public’s  lassitude  for  the  Ibsenian  or  realistic  drama,  by  the  need 
it  felt,  amid  civil  discords,  for  a  homage  to  the  traditional  qualities 
of  generosity  and  wit.  Cyrano — which  is  not  a  masterpiece — - 
does  not  deserve  oblivion,  because  it  depicts  a  real  drama,  Cyrano’s 
drama  and  Rostand’s — the  drama  of  the  writer  of  second  rank  who 
aspires  to  genius.  In  this  “heroic  comedy”  which  contains  so  many 
plays  upon  words  and  anachronisms,  in  which  every  character  but  one 
is  a  puppet  led  by  chance,  all  the  rest  may  well  be  illusory  but  this 
tragedy  of  the  failure  is  truthful.  Rostand  has  been  reproached  with 
having,  among  other  solecisms,  diverted  the  historic  Cyrano  from  his 
true  character  to  make  him  the  symbolic  type  of  the  French  “swag¬ 
gerer.”  He  seems  rather  to  have  found,  two  centuries  and  a  half  dis¬ 
tant,  a  personage  sufficiently  qualified  to  experience  his  own  emotions. 
He  therefore  entrusted  him  with  his  ambitions,  his  disappointments,  his 
bitternesses,  veiled  with  the  good  humour  which  his  own  successes  in¬ 
vited  him  to  lend  another.  Lastly,  in  several  penetrating  scenes  of  a 
muffled  music,  he  has  given  his  hero  that  melancholy  which  he  must  have 
known  in  his  lucid  hours  when  he  divined  that  the  role  played  by  Cyrano 
de  Bergerac  with  respect  to  Moliere  would  perhaps,  one  day,  be  his  in 
the  presence  of  the  great  dramatic  poet  whom,  since  Racine,  the 
French  stage  has  been  awaiting. 


CHAPTER  VI 


SYMBOLISM 

1.  THE  SYMBOLIST  MOVEMENT 

THE  complete  history  of  Symbolism  has  been  sufficiently  studied 
for  it  to  be  summarized  in  its  broad  lines.  Two  of  the  future 
masters  of  Symbolism,  Verlaine  and  Mallarme,  had  contrib¬ 
uted  to  Le  Parnasse  contemporain.  The  war  and  the  success  of  the 
true  Parnassians  delayed,  for  a  decade,  the  homage  which  was  their  due. 
Little  by  little  the  young  turned  towards  them — some  guided  by  a 
chapter  of  A  Rebours,  others  acquainted  with  Verlaine’s  work  through 
a  criticism  in  La  Nouvelle  Rive  gauche,  soon  followed  by  his  becoming  a 
contributor  to  that  review  (1882).  The  poet  thus  defined  the  origins 
of  the  movement:  “A  certain  number  of  young  men,  tired  of  always 
reading  the  same  sad  horrors,  called  Naturalistic  ...  a  little  de¬ 
tached  from  the  Parnassian  serenity,  took  it  into  their  heads  one  day 
to  read  my  verses,  written  for  the  most  part  without  any  preoccupation 
with  schools.  These  verses  pleased  them  .  .  .  As  chance  would  have 
it,  I  published  at  the  propitious  moment  Les  Pastes  maudits,  a  good 
deal  for  Corbiere  and  Mallarme,  but  above  all  for  Rimbaud.”  This 
new  group  was  given  the  name  of  Decadents,  flung  them  by  the  mockers 
as  an  insult,  with  which  they  adorned  themselves  proudly  since  it 
evoked  a  verse  of  their  favourite  poet : 

Je  suis  V empire  a  la  fin  de  la  decadence. 

This  title,  which  allowed  Huysmans  to  unite  Verlaine,  Villiers  and 
Mallarme  in  a  common  admiration,  was  scarcely  susceptible  of  any 
but  a  negative  meaning.  The  number  of  the  revolutionaries  grew. 
The  Nouvelle  Rive  gauche  became  Lutece  (1883)  to  which  contributed 
Laforgue,  Tailhade  and  Moreas  who  was — the  first  it  seems — to  speak 
of  “Symbolism”  in  Le  XIX  e  sidcle,  11  August,  1885.  There  were 
henceforth  the  Symbolists  and  the  Decadents  who  lived  together,  in 
the  main,  on  good  terms.  Regnier,  Paul  Adam  and  Viele-Griffin  first 
published  in  Lutece.  Moreas  founded  Le  Symbolisme  with  Paul  Adam 
and  Gustave  Kahn.  In  1886,  in  Le  Scapin,  Alfred  Vallette  drew  the 
following  picture:  “It  is  from  Baudelaire,  from  the  Parnassian 
group,  then  from  Mallarme  and  Verlaine — dissidents  of  this  group — 

that  the  adolescent  poetry  of  to-day  was  born.  .  .  .  Prose  does  not 

94 


SYMBOLISM  95 

evolve  in  precisely  the  same  direction  as  poetry.  .  .  .  Symbolism  will 
remain  where  it  is :  in  poetry.  It  is  there  and  there  only  it  can  hope 
for  some  years  of  existence  as  a  school.” 

Nevertheless  the  two  groups  could  not  live  apart  from  each  other. 
La  Vogue,  which  began  in  April,  1886,  published  Rimbaud’s  Les 
Illuminations  and  the  second  part  of  the  Poetes  maudits,  among  works 
by  Kahn,  Laforgue,  Moreas,  Mallarme,  Villiers.  The  extraordinary 
Anatole  Baju’s  Le  Decadent — journal,  then  review — tried  hard,  under 
Verlaine’s  patronage,  to  safeguard  Decadisme  against  the  Symbolist 
wave,  to  establish  a  distinction  which  Ernest  Raynaud  states  thus: 
“The  Decadents  differed  from  the  Symbolists  in  this  that  they  ad¬ 
mitted  direct  emotion,  the  exact  translation  of  the  phenomena  of  life, 
instead  of  exacting  their  transposition,  that  they  did  not  lengthen  the 
alexandrin  beyond  measure  and  that  they  used  the  fixed  forms.”  Both, 
however,  were  associated  in  the  same  reaction  against  Le  Parnasse  and 
Naturalism,  in  the  same  love  of  the  dream  and  of  music.  As  early  as 
1889 — the  year  when  Jules  Huret  opened  an  inquiry  on  the  death  of 
Naturalism — Leon  Deschamps’s  La  Plume  brought  together  all  the 
dispersed  efforts  and  received  side  by  side  the  Symbolists,  the  Decadistes 
and  the  poetes  romans.  The  end  of  1889  saw  the  birth  of  Le  Mercure 
de  France  (sequel  to  La  Pleiade)  which,  more  favourable  at  first  to  the 
Decadents,  was  to  become,  by  force  of  circumstances,  the  fortress  of 
Symbolism.  Because  it  had  an  affirmative  sense,  it  was  in  fact  the 
adjective  “Symbolist”  which  obtained  the  honour  of  designating  one  of 
the  most  glorious  periods  of  French  poetry.  It  would  be  possible  to 
dispute  endlessly  concerning  its  justness  and  its  inadequacy.  It  is 
probably  clearer  to  us  than  it  was  to  those  whose  works  contributed  to 
widen  its  significance,  and  its  best  definition  consists  in  studying  the 
diverse  works  which  are  covered  by  that  convenient  label.  In  the  mass, 
the  general  tendency  of  the  Symbolist  poets  is  indicated  by  a  saying 
of  Joubert’s  taken  literally:  “Beautiful  verses  are  those  which  ex¬ 
hale  themselves  like  sounds  or  perfumes”  and  by  these  verses  of 
Baudelaire’s : 

Comme  de  longs  echos  qui  de  loin  se  confondent  .  ■  . 

Les  parfums,  les  couleurs  et  les  sons  se  repondent. 

It  is,  by  different  means,  an  art  of  “correspondences.”  Gourmont 
has  indicated  that  there  should  be  seen  in  it  “an  extremely  individual¬ 
istic,  extremely  idealistic  literature  .  .  .  the  very  variety  and  liberty 
of  which  ought  to  correspond  to  personal  visions  of  the  world.”  He 
has  noted  equally  what  remained  in  it  of  “enlarged  and  sublimated 


96  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Naturalism”  and  delicately  emphasized  the  influence,  on  its  sudden  out¬ 
burst,  of  Moreas,  “bold  young  stranger,  rather  brutal,  little  acquainted 
with  our  literary  prejudices,  or  disdaining  them.”  This  complex  en¬ 
semble  of  aspiration  is  on  the  whole  faithfully  represented  by  Rim¬ 
baud’s  title,  Les  Illuminations,  if  there  be  added  to  the  precise  pictorial 
sense  given  it  by  the  author  that  of  dazzling  visions  of  the  internal  and 
external  world  which  an  unprepared  reader  would  be  quite  ready  to  lend 
it.  The  symbol,  strictly  speaking,  was  only  an  element  of  evocation, 
the  essential  aim  of  this  poetry. 

From  the  technical  point  of  view — and  according  to  the  degrees  the 
study  of  its  various  masters  will  establish— Symbolism  attempted  to 
free  French  verse  in  all  its  forms.  It  suppressed  the  fixed  caesura  of 
the  alexandrin  and  succeeded:  it  abolished  the  tyranny  of  the  rhyme, 
it  rehabilitated  uneven  rhythms,  it  attempted  free  verse.  Without 
doubt  these  attempts  did  not  all  have  an  equal  success,  but  not  one  was 
totally  sterile. 

2.  THREE  PRECURSORS 

Of  the  three  poets  whom  Verlaine  undertook  to  rehabilitate  in 
1884*  against  an  unjust  oblivion,  two  are  now  readily  considered  his 
equals.  Tristan  Corbiere  alone  has  remained  a  poete  maudit.  The 
critics  who  are  sympathetic  towards  him  mingle  grave  reserves  with 
their  praises.  Huysmans  accuses  him  of  “talking  nigger,”  Gourmont 
grants  him  merely  “sudden  jerks  of  genius”  amid  much  heavy  rubbish. 
Jules  Laforgue — who  borrowed  a  great  deal  from  him — reproaches  him 
with  having  “no  technique.”  Yet  if  it  be  considered  that  after  a 
delicate  childhood  in  Brittany,  two  journeys  in  Palestine  and  in  Italy 
and  four  years’  residence  in  Paris,  he  died  before  reaching  his  thirtieth 
year,  the  single  volume  he  published,  in  1873,  will  appear  the  more  in¬ 
structive  and  moving. 

It  is  divided  into  two  parts,  the  Breton  and  the  Parisian.  In  Amor 
and  Gens  de  mer  a  powerful  inspiration  gives  itself  free  rein  and  its 
description  mingles  the  memory  of  old  emotions  with  young  ironies. 
La  Rapsode  foraine  in  which  he  evokes  the  pilgrimage  of  Sainte-Anne- 
de-la-Palud  represents  fairly  well  the  two  aspects  of  this  talent. 

Doubtless  he  does  not  maintain  this  perfection  of  lyric  realism  in  all 
the  poems  he  devoted  to  the  rugged  Breton  country  of  Leon  and  to  its 
seafaring  folk;  but  he  keeps  in  them  qualities  of  a  picturesque,  brutal 
story-teller,  that  truculence  in  the  extreme  precision  of  the  details 
which  makes  Bossu  Bitor  equal  Kipling’s  best  maritime  pictures.  Cor¬ 
biere  overthrows  all  the  conventional  painting  of  the  sailor.  He  shows 
him  as  he  really  is  and,  in  his  name,  disdainfully  rejects  the  eloquent 


SYMBOLISM  97 

condolences  of  the  rhetorician  Hugo.  La  Fin  permits  us  to  imagine 
what  Corbiere  would  have  thought  of  Jean  Richepin’s  lucubrations. 

In  Les  Amours  jaunes,  his  poetry  is  at  once  more  debatable  and  still 
more  novel.  The  man  reveals  himself  more  in  it,  with  a  sincere  dis¬ 
gust  of  cliques,  a  desire  to  protect  his  barbarous  originality  against 
all  the  schools. 

It  is  easy  to  understand  and  to  approve  the  hatred  of  sentimentality 
which  dictates  Le  Fils  de  Lamartine  or  this  quatrain: 

Moreau — j’oubliais — Hegesippe, 

Createur  de  Vart-hopital  .  .  . 

Depuis  j’ai  la  phtisie  en  grippe ; 

Ce  n’est  plus  meme  original  .  .  . 

and  the  hatred  of  eloquence  which  inspired  him  with  this  portrait : 

Hugo:  Vhomme  apocalyptique , 

L’homme — ceci — tuera — cela, 

Garde  national  epique! 

II  n’en  reste  qu’un — celui-la! 

What  a  prodigious  poet  had  he  given  this  incisive  distinctness  to  all 
his  work!  Unhappily  he  does  not  free  himself  from  a  conventional 
romantic  pessimism.  He  stiffens  in  the  attitude  of  Le  Faria,  as¬ 
sumes  a  factitious  Satanism,  bristling  with  insults,  hoarse  laughter, 
offensive  prosiness  traversed  (see  Litanie )  by  echoes  of  Baudelaire’s 
sensual  Catholicism.  And  all  that,  surely,  is  very  literary !  The  de¬ 
sire  for  caricature  which  makes  him  offer  the  reader  a  “sonnet  with 
the  way  to  use  it”  degenerates  into  a  cosmopolitan  salad.  He  mingles 
languages,  apostrophes,  visions  ( Grand  Opera )  in  a  parodic  intention 
which  ends  in  nonsense  (“0  Venus  dans  la  Venerie,”  Chanson  en  si,  etc.). 
In  the  long  poems,  like  Litanie  du  Sommeil,  the  rhythm  is  lost,  the 
language  becomes  insipid,  all  is  dull  balderdash.  At  such  instants  he 
seems  to  justify  the  cruel  verses  he  has  accumulated  in  his  Epitaphe : 

Poete  en  depit  de  ses  vers  .  .  . 

Ses  vers  faux  furent  ses  seuls  vrais  .  .  . 

Trop  reussi — comme  rate. 

Yet  this  failure,  this  toad,  “nightingale  of  the  mud”  (the  com¬ 
parison  is  his  own),  was  a  veritable  precursor.  He  introduced  the  ac¬ 
cent  of  popular  laments  into  serious  poetry.  His  Rose  au  rosier,  don- 
daine!  and  certain  descriptive  pieces  in  Raccrocs,  here  forestall  La¬ 
forgue.  The  variety  of  the  rhythms  in  Gente  Dame,  Apres  la  pluie, 
Toit,  Cris  d’aveugle,  Piece  a  Carreaux,  attest  his  virtuosity.  Rescousse 
is  a  Verlainian  harmony  scarcely  less  liquid  than  the  music  of  Romances 


98  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

sans  paroles.  Where  he  is  most  original,  his  song  keeps  a  raucous 
clumsiness  the  charm  of  which  is  penetrating,  such  as  this  finale  of  the 
Heures : 

J’entends  comme  un  bruit  de  crecelle  .  .  . 

C’est  la  male  heure  qui  m’appelle 
Dans  le  creux  des  nuits  tornbe:  un  glas  .  .  .  deux  glas. 

J’ai  compte  plus  de  quatorze  heures  .  .  . 

L’heure  est  une  larme.  Tu  pleures 
Mon  coeurl  .  .  .  Chante  encor,  va — ne  compte  pas. 

Corbiere  is  not  a  great  poet ;  but  the  volume  which  contains,  side  by 
side  with  the  powerful  frescoes  of  Amor  and  the  mysterious  melodies 
of  the  Serenade  des  Serenades,  the  verses  A  la  memoire  de  Zulma  where 
the  juvenile  verve  is  combined  with  melancholy  humour,  is  sure  to 
survive  all  revolutions  of  taste. 

One  would  not  dare  predict  as  much  for  the  Chants  de  Maldoror 
published  by  Isidore  Ducasse  under  the  pseudonym  of  Comte  de  Lau- 
treamont  before  his  death  at  the  age  of  twenty-eight.  From  the  first 
pages  of  this  prose  poem  it  is  clear  what  influences  still  weigh  upon  the 
young  man.  He  is  drunk  with  sepulchral  romanticism,  with  Young’s 
funereal  grandiloquence  and  pseudo-Ossian,  with  Byron’s  Satanism  and 
that  of  the  gloomiest  novels.  A  furious  thirst  for  originality  still 
further  exaggerates  this  puerilely  Sadistic  affectation.  In  a  grotesque 
nature  the  Creator  of  which  is  ignoble,  he  contemplates  strange  visions. 
In  rivers  of  blood,  amid  lice,  vampires,  hermaphrodites,  paederasts  and 
spiders,  the  “brother  of  the  leech”  converses  with  the  toad,  apostro¬ 
phizes  Lohengrin,  makes  love  with  a  female  shark  and,  metamorphosed 
into  an  octopus,  defies  God.  Sometimes  ridiculous,  these  descriptions 
quickly  enough  become  tediously  monotonous.  It  is  easy  to  under¬ 
stand  why,  in  the  sympathetic  study  devoted  to  him  by  Gourmont,  the 
quotations  do  not  go  beyond  the  first  canto.  When  he  finds  a  fine 
formula  (“I  employ  my  genius  in  painting  the  delights  of  cruelty”),  he 
hastens  to  dilute  it  with  banal  explanations.  It  is  doubtful  whether  he 
merits  even  the  praise  with  which  he  tempers  his  criticism  of  his  hero : 
“Thy  spirit  is  so  sick  thou  dost  not  perceive  it  and  thou  thinkest  thou 
art  thine  own  self  each  time  there  issues  from  thy  mouth  speech  insen¬ 
sate,  though  full  of  an  infernal  grandeur.” 

And  then,  by  flashes,  we  perceive  in  this  abortive  work  traces  of  a 
certain  imaginative  mastery.  His  grotesque  lyricism  breaks  forth  in 
apostrophes  such  as  “0  poulpe  an  regard  de  sole”  and  the  long  sus¬ 
tained  invocation  to  old  Ocean.  His  powerful  enumerations  revive  in 
the  mind  the  obsession  of  elementary  monsters.  High  images  arise: 


SYMBOLISM  99 

“Appear  then,  derisory  spans  of  eternal  chastisements !  .  .  .  like  a  long 
flight  of  shivering  storks,  deeply  meditating,  which,  during  the  winter, 
flies  powerfully  through  space,  all  sails  set  .  .  His  irony  attains 
strange  sonorities :  “Thou  hast  a  friend  in  the  vampire.  Counting 
the  acarus  sarcopte  that  produces  the  itch,  thou  wilt  have  two  friends.” 
He  suddenly  transports  himself  to  the  end  of  the  world  where  “the 
granite  will  be  seen  to  glide,  like  a  cormorant,  on  the  surface  of  the 
waves.”  With  Lautreamont  we  penetrate  into  a  realm  of  uncertain 
lights.  “As  I  write,”  he  says,  “new  thrills  pervade  the  intellectual  at¬ 
mosphere.  All  it  needs  is  to  have  the  courage  to  look  them  in  the 
face.”  Was  he  conscious  of  so  doing  in  these  enigmatic  phrases  where 
there  is  perhaps  genius :  “I,  like  the  dogs,  feel  the  need  of  the  in¬ 

finite  ...  I  cannot,  cannot  satisfy  this  need !  I  am  the  son  of  man 
and  of  woman,  according  to  what  I  have  been  told.  This  astonishes 
me  ...  I  believed  I  was  something  more !” 

There  is  nothing  of  this  violent  originality  in  Jules  Laforgue.  No 
doubt  he  has  excited  ardent  admiration.  “I  quite  believe,”  wrote 
Theodor  de  Wyzewa,  “that,  among  all  the  young  artists  of  his  genera¬ 
tion,  Laforgue  alone  had  genius”  and  Francis  Viele-Griffin  has  spoken 
of  “a  generation  which  Jules  Laforgue  will  immortalize.”  It  seems 
clear,  however,  that  his  work  has  benefited  by  the  pity  which  the  per¬ 
son  of  the  consumptive  poet  who  died  at  the  age  of  twenty-seven  could 
not  fail  to  arouse.  Of  the  twofold  judgment  pronounced  by  Remy  de 
Gourmont,  “adolescent  genius  .  .  .  over-petted  little  girl,”  we  should 
to-day  be  tempted  to  retain  above  all  the  second  affirmation.  An  ex¬ 
ample  will  show  exactly  enough  the  gulf  between  Laforgue  and  a  great 
poet.  Baudelaire  having  written: 

Ah!  Seigneur,  donnez-moi  la  force  et  le  courage  .  .  . 

Laforgue  rewrites  this  verse  thus : 

0!  Nature,  donne-moi  la  force  et  le  courage.  .  .  . 

A  good  part  of  his  originality  consists  in  having  thus  made  beautiful 
French  verses  limp. 

Reduced  to  its  real  measure,  it  is  possible  to  appreciate  the  merit  of 
the  Complaintes  or  of  the  Fleurs  de  bonne  volonte  and  accord  a  charm 
to  these  improvisations.  Laforgue  excels  in  the  rapid  evocation  of  suc¬ 
cessive  visions,  in  the  “five-minute  water-colours,”  in  the  “little  pieces 
without  pretension”  as  well  as  in  the  rhapsodies  ( L'H'mer  qui  vient, 
Dimanches )  where  the  desultory  rules,  in  the  stringing  of  images 
along  a  rather  loose  thought  {Petition).  There  his  qualities  manifest 


100  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

themselves:  a  gruesome  humour  ( De  Voubli  des  morts )  shaded  with  a 
pert  melancholy: 

Je  n’ aural  jamais  d’aventures ; 

Qu’il  est  petit,  dans  la  Nature, 

Le  chemin  d’fer  Paris-Ceinture! 

and  mirthless  smiles : 

II  dit  que  la  Terre  est  une  simple  legende 
Contee  au  possible  par  Videal  .  .  . 

J’aurai  passe  ma  vie  a  faillir  m’embarquer 
Dans  de  bien  funestes  histoires. 

From  time  to  time  this  familiar  inspiration  finds  an  expressive 
formula : 

Ah!  que  la  Vie  est  quotidienne! 
or  even  cruelly  just: 

Et  c’est  bien  dans  ce  sens,  moi,  qu’au  lieu  de  me  taire, 

Je  persiste  a  narrer  mes  petites  affaires. 

He  tries  hard  to  shake  it  off  in  the  longest  poems  but  it  is  to  fall 
into  the  insipid  prating  of  U Imitation  de  Notre-Dame  la  Lime  and  of 
Le  Concile  feerique.  In  vain  he  knocks  at  every  door.  He  trans¬ 
lates  the  spleen  of  an  exasperated  Romanticism  then,  in  reaction, 
parodies  it  ( Complainte-placet  de  Faust  fils )  ;  but  the  pirouettes,  the 
sneers,  the  slang,  the  fabrication  of  comic  eternullites  or  violuptes 
could  not  long  inspire  an  artist. 

He  is  the  bard  of  abortive  things,  of  the  barrel-organ,  of  painful 
puberties,  of  the  foetuses  of  poets,  of  the  blackballed,  of  the  poor  human 
body,  of  the  desolate  resignation  which  concludes : 

Et  jusqu’d  ce  que  la  nature  soit  bien  bonne 
Tachons  de  vivre  monotone. 

This  monotony  weighs  heavily  upon  the  Moralites  legendaires,  upon  the 
Lohengrin  whose  easy  symbolism  limits  itself  to  diluting  a  great  utter¬ 
ance  of  Rimbauld’s  on  Pan  et  la  Syrinx  who  flees  shouting  the  hoyotoho 
of  the  Walkyrie.  It  is  this  confusion  of  styles  and  of  epochs  that 
charmed  contemporaries.  They  relished  that,  in  Persee  et  Andromede, 
the  happiest  of  the  three  should  be  the  monster.  Why  dissemble  how 
much  these  parodies  to-day  appear  factitious  and  mechanical?  For 
example  the  apostrophe  to  Iokanaan:  “There  thou  art,  ideologist, 


SYMBOLISM  101 

scribbler,  rejected  conscript,  bastard  of  Jean- Jacques  Rousseau,” 
makes  those  alone  laugh  who  have  agreed  with  the  author  in  advance 
to  find  it  funny.  The  best  of  these  prose  pieces  is  that  which,  like 
the  introduction  to  the  Miracle  des  Roses,  even  when  worked  up,  keeps 
an  appearance  of  spontaneity,  with  humorous  sallies  in  the  parentheses 
and  the  sly  adverbs. 

There  again  the  most  ambitious  attempt  leads  to  the  gravest  failure. 
One  is  astonished  at  the  prestige  the  Hamlet  of  the  Moralites  once  had. 
Did  he  really  pretend  to  draw  his  own  portrait  in  that  puppet  of  an 
ironical  dauber?  Must  we  also  exclaim  over  Laforgue’s  profound 
philosophical  culture  because  he  knew  the  opposition  between  natura 
naturans  and  natura  naturanda,  because  he  wrote:  “It  is  I  [Hamlet] 
who  go  dethroning  the  Categorical  Imperative  and  installing  in  its 
place  the  Climacteric  Imperative”?  Happy  quip,  at  best,  scarcely 
superior  to  this  other:  “Hamlet  takes  his  future  skull  in  both  hands 
and  tries  to  quake  with  all  his  bones.”  Laforgue’s  aim  is  clearly  per¬ 
ceived.  He  has  defined  it  in  Les  Deux  Pigeons:  “Gaspard  knew  every¬ 
thing,  the  philosophies  and  history,  the  moral  sciences  and  the  para¬ 
doxes.  He  was  skilful  at  mingling  everything  in  his  fireside  ideal.” 
There  has  been  talk  in  this  connection  of  a  French  Heine.  Why  did 
Laforgue  often  adorn  himself  with  the  Germanic  heaviness  from  which 
the  German  had  escaped? 

Seeking  to  situate  him  in  the  Symbolist  movement,  Ernest  Raynaud 
writes:  “Laforgue  floats  between  the  punctilious,  meticulous  Bourget 
who  tries  to  keep  him  within  the  bounds  of  Parnassian  duty,  and  the 
speculative  Gustave  Kahn  .  .  .  who  urges  him  on  to  adventures.”  It 
is  not  astonishing  that  he  has  remained  the  idol  of  mediocre  journalists 
who  learned  from  his  example  that  ignoble  disparagement  could  take 
the  place  of  poetic  gift. 

3.  ARTHUR  RIMBAUD 

Jean-Arthur  Rimbaud  was  born  in  1854.  In  1870,  at  the  College  of 
Charlesville,  he  wrote  poems  certain  of  which  already  denote  a  great 
lyric  poet.  Before  he  was  nineteen  he  had  produced  Les  Illuminations, 
he  had  published,  then  attempted  to  destroy  La  Saison  en  Enfer  and 
forever  renounced  literature.  Thenceforth  his  life  was  that  of  a 
voluntary  exile  wandering  through  the  world.  He  was  living  in  Africa 
when,  in  1884,  Verlaine  published  his  Poetes  maudits.  The  new  school 
hailed  him  as  a  precursor  though,  to  tell  the  truth,  he  represented  for 
it  but  a  name  and  the  ideal  type  of  the  young  Decadent  prince.  False 
sonnets  by  Rimbaud  were  published.  They  were  not  even  pastiches 
since  his  work  was  unknown  ( Les  Illuminations  appeared  in  1886  only 


102  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

and  a  second  edition  of  La  Saison  had  to  be  awaited  until  1892)  ;  but 
they  show  how  his  contemporaries  pictured  him,  a  romantic  poet  who 
had  become  a  chief  of  negro  tribes.  He  returned  to  France  only  to 
die  there  (1891).  Now,  Jacques  Riviere,  speaking  of  Rimbaud  in 
1920,  writes :  “It  would  not  be  hard  for  me,  at  times,  to  revere  in  him 
the  greatest  poet  who  ever  existed.”  1  While  the  influence  of  all  the 
Symbolists,  save  Mallarme,  seems  exhausted  to-day,  no  one  can  forsee 
how  far  that  of  Rimbaud,  poet  and  seer  of  genius,  will  extend. 

This  prodigious  career  in  which  Rimbaud  travelled  in  three  years 
the  road  of  a  long  existence,  this  literary  life  of  which  Georges  Duhamel 
wrote  that  it  was  “like  a  violent  epitome  of  the  history  of  literatures,” 
falls  readily  into  three  periods.  To  measure  the  suddenness  of  his  out¬ 
burst  it  is  indispensable  to  recall,  on  the  threshold  of  this  study,  that 
at  seventeen  he  was  sufficiently  master  of  his  art  to  unite  the  grace 
of : 

Elle  etait  fort  deshabillee 
Et  de  grands  arbres  indiscrets 
Aux  vitres  jetaient  leur  feuillee 
Malinement,  tout  pres,  tout  pres  .  .  . 

( Premiere  Soiree ) 

the  penetrating  emotion  of : 

Je  ne  parlerai  pas,  je  ne  penserai  rien: 

Mats  Vamour  infmi  me  montera  dans  I’ame, 

Et  j’irai  loin,  bien  loin,  comme  un  bohemien, 

Par  la  Nature — heureux  comme  avec  une  femme  .  .  . 

( Sensation ) 

and  the  perfect  vision  and  suggestion  of : 

II  ecoute  chanter  leurs  haleines  craintives 
Qui  fleurent  de  longs  miels  vegetaux  et  roses 
Et  qu’interrompt  parfois  un  sifflement,  salives 
Reprises  sur  la  levre  ou  desirs  de  baisers  .  .  . 

( Les  Chercheuses  de  Poux ). 

From  his  first  words  he  manifests  that  terrible  distinctness  which  will 
illuminate  La  Saison  en  Enfer.  It  is  true  he  has  visibly  undergone  in¬ 
fluences.  His  form  bears  traces  of  Romanticism  and  of  Le  Parnasse. 
It  is  often  antithetical  or  marmorean  by  imitation.  There  is  literary 
Satanism  in  Venus  Anadyomene,  there  are  memories  of  Banville  and 
Gautier  in  Le  Bal  des  pendus,  even  of  Musset  in  Ophelia;  but  how 

i  The  studies  by  Paul  Claudel  and  Jacques  Riviere  are  as  indispensable  for  the 
understanding  of  Rimbaud  as  the  books  by  Paterne  Berrichon  and  Ernest  Delahaye. 


SYMBOLISM  103 

quickly  his  originality  frees  itself  from  these  artifices !  If  Hugo  is  not 
absent  from  Le  F orgeron,  it  is  because  his  sonorous  verse  marvellously 
expresses  Rimbaud’s  popular  and  revolutionary  aspirations.  This 
virulent  picture: 

Et  Vun  avec  la  hart,  1’ autre  avec  let  cravache 
Nous  fouaillaient  .  .  . 

expresses  his  revolt,  as  does  also  the  sharp  satire  of  Les  Assis  and  Les 
Premieres  Communions.  Rimbaud  is  a  rebel  even  against  his  first  faith. 
Soleil  et  Chair  mingles  its  humanitarian  Rousseauism  and  the  poetical 
paganism  which  curses  the  debasement  of  beauty  by  Christianity. 

Besides  the  poems  which  keep  but  a  plastic  value,  such  as  Le  Dormeur 
du  Val,  he  discovers  a  new  tone  for  intimate  poems :  immortalized  sensa¬ 
tions  ( Reve  pour  Vhiver,  La  Maline,  Le  Buffet),  fugitive  fantasies 
(Ma  Boheme,  Oraison  du  Soir).  He  mingles  realism  and  humour 
( Les  Reparties  de  Nina).  Through  the  omnipotence  of  rhythm  he 
gives  inflexible  description  a  halo  of  tender  pity  ( Les  Effares).  In 
A  la  Musique,  after  six  stanzas  of  an  almost  photographic  precision,  he 
evokes  in  twelve  verses  all  the  confused  aspirations  of  puberty.  In 
Au  Cabaret  Vert  the  poetry  transfigures  with  a  sovereign  power: 

.  .  .  La  chape  immense,  avec  sa  mousse 
Que  dorait  un  rayon  de  soleil  arriere  .  .  . 

The  reader  already  recognizes  the  first  accents  of  the  music,  elusive 
and  so  simple,  of  the  songs  in  Les  Illuminations.  They  strip  the 
buffoon  vein  of  Le  Coeur  vole  of  all  grossness.  Nothing  any  longer  dis¬ 
guises  them  in  this  conclusion  of  Tete  de  Faune: 

Et  quand  il  a  fui — tel  qu’un  ecureuil — 

Son  rire  tremble  encore  a  chaque  feuille, 

Et  Von  voit  epeure  par  un  bouvreuil, 

Le  Baiser  d’or  du  Bois  qui  se  recueille. 

We  have  in  fact  reached  the  point  of  transition,  the  labor  described 
by  Rimbaud  in  his  Alchimie  du  verbe:  “I  ordered  the  form  and  the 
movement  of  each  consonant  and,  with  instinctive  rhythms,  I  flattered 
myself  I  had  invented  a  poetic  speech  accessible,  one  day  or  another, 
to  all  the  senses” — a  grandiose  enterprise  of  which  the  famous  sonnet, 
Les  Voyelles,  is  but  one  of  the  essays:  “I  thought  I  saw,  at  times  I 
thought  I  felt  in  this  manner,”  he  declared,  “and  I  say  it,  I  tell  it,  be¬ 
cause  I  find  this  as  interesting  as  anything  else.”  Lemaitre’s  irony 
proves  nothing  here  but  the  extent  of  his  non-comprehension  and  the 
lucid  boldness  of  the  precursor.  When  Verlaine  will  admire  in  Les 


104  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Effares  “worse  and  better  Goya”  and  in  Les  Chercheuses  de  poux  “a 
Lamartinian,  Racinian,  Virgilian”  poem,  Rimbaud  himself  will  already 
have  felt  the  inadequacy  of  his  first  verses  in  spite  of  “their  unheard-of 
strength  and  stiffness”  (Claudel).  He  will  dream  of  awakening  a  more 
subtle,  more  fiercely  suave  music.  In  May  1871  he  writes  to  a  friend: 
“I  say  one  must  be  a  visionary,  make  oneself  a  visionary ,”  exactly  like 
the  child  he  had  described  in  his  Poetes  de  sept  ans: 

.  .  .  Qui  dans  ses  yeux  fermes  voyait  des  points  .  .  . 

.  .  .  Et  pour  des  visions  ecrasant  son  ceil  darne  .  .  . 

Making  oneself  a  visionary  means  furthermore  mastering  one’s  eye, 
cultivating  one’s  soul  in  order  to  attain  the  unknown:  “The  poet 
reaches  the  unknown ;  and  even,  demented,  should  he  end  by  losing  the 
intelligence  of  his  visions,  he  has  had  them.”  The  poet,  stealer 
of  fire,  will  put  at  the  disposal  of  this  vision  a  language  which 
“will  be  soul  for  the  soul,  summing  up  everything,  perfumes,  sounds, 
colours,  thought  locking  thought  and  dragging.”  For  forty  years 
French  poetry  has  been  evolving  in  the  direction  which  Rimbaud, 
logically  prolonging  the  Baudelairian  presentiments,  had  indicated  in 
these  two  prophetic  sentences. 

He  had  written  to  Verlaine.  The  latter,  enthusiastic,  invited  him  to 
come  to  Paris.  Rimbaud  ran.  He  brought  Bateau  Ivre,  an  authentic 
masterpiece  in  which  the  Parnassian  Mendes  saw  merely  “a  drawn-out 
metaphor”  and  which  was,  in  reality,  the  crowning  of  the  past, 
the  announcement  of  a  flight  towards  the  unknown.  For  if  those  of 
his  contemporaries  who  welcomed  this  revelation  were  especially  sensi¬ 
tive  to  the  plenitude  of  its  descriptions,  a  completer  knowledge  of  Rim¬ 
baud’s  thought  adds  to  it  for  us  the  spectacle  of  this  visionary  he 
wished  to  be  alternately  triumphant,  faltering,  finally  despairing  in 
the  terrible  knowledge  of  the  price  his  conquest  had  cost  him. 

He  did  not,  however,  entirely  abandon  “the  empire  of  splendid 
strength”  (Verlaine).  Les  Illuminations  still  contains  traces  of  vio¬ 
lence,  of  vertigo.  At  least  he  will  try  henceforth  to  elude  the  common 
fatality,  first  through  flashing  vision,  later  by  the  return  to  silent 
humility.  Les  Illuminations  and  La  Saison  en  Enfer  will  be  the  two 
stages  of  this  progress  which  was  to  lead  him  farther  than  any  of  his 
predecessors  in  literary  expression  and  finally — calm  after  this  ver¬ 
tigo — outside  all  literature. 

Les  illuminations  are,  expressly,  images.  “Coloured  plates,”  he 
said  disdainfully,  in  English,  and  certain  of  them  ( Promontoire ,  Scenes, 
Antique )  do  indeed  remain  coloured  images  ;  but  most  often  they  justify 
the  French  sense  of  the  word  ( images  coloriees )  and  are  the  thrilling 


SYMBOLISM  105 

evocations  of  a  visionary.  As  early  as  1871,  in  Les  Deserts  de 
V Amour,  he  gave  an  example  of  those  characteristic  impressions  where, 
before  the  troubled  mind,  “moved  to  death  by  the  murmur  of  the  morn¬ 
ing  milk  and  the  night  of  the  last  century,”  objects  were  infinitely 
distorted:  “The  partition  became  vaguely  the  shadow  of  the  trees, 
and  I  was  swallowed  up  in  the  amorous  sadness  of  the  night.”  He 
himself  has  defined  his  manner:  “I  wrote  silences,  nights,  I  noted  the 
inexpressible.  I  transfixed  vertigoes.” 

“I  became  a  fabulous  opera,”  he  continues.  In  fact,  his  soul  fre¬ 
quently  seems  a  stage  cleared  for  chimerical  processions.  In  Apres  le 
Deluge  the  worlds  violently  break  loose.  Nocturne  vulgaire  and  De¬ 
part  are  mysterious  glidings  from  one  image  to  another.  Jeune  Me¬ 
nage  and  Memoire  are  thus  constituted  by  long  trails  of  images,  the 
slow  eddies  of  a  wave.  No  longer  any  form,  properly  speaking,  noth¬ 
ing  but  the  translation  of  these  movements : 

Madame  se  tient  trop  debout  dans  la  prairie 
prochaine  ou  neigent  les  fils  du  travail ;  Vombrelle 
aux  doigts;  foulant  Vombelle ;  trop  fiere  pour  elle 
des  enfants  lisant  dans  la  verdure  fleurie 
leur  livre  de  maroquin  rouge!  .  .  . 


Matinee  d’ivresse,  Veillees  and  that  Aube  in  which  he  cannot  quite  suc¬ 
ceed  in  grasping  his  object  are  pure  hallucinations.  In  Enfance 
and  Villes  his  memories  of  Charleville,  Paris  and  London  pass  before 
his  eyes  with  a  feverish  haste  distorting  past  and  future:  “It  can 
only  be  the  end  of  the  world  as  you  go  forward.”  Soifs  represents  him 
also  disarmed  before  his  lassitude  and  his  desires.  In  this  receptive 
state  he  accepts  as  easily  the  complexity  of  La  Riviere  de  Cassis  (where 
a  fixed  landscape  suggests  in  him  other  landscapes  less  firmly  caught) 
as  the  simplicity  of  La  Bonne  Pensee  du  matin  or  the  popular  refrain 
of  Les  Fetes  de  la  F aim. 

His  lucidity,  however,  does  not  disarm.  J acques  Riviere  has  per¬ 
fectly  analysed  the  return  of  certain  motives  in  his  visions :  disorganiza¬ 
tion  of  the  known  world  by  the  intervention  of  another  universe,  re¬ 
turn  to  chaos,  importance  of  boundaries,  motive  of  the  crevice  (which 
perhaps  expresses  the  experience  of  an  obstacle,  so  frequent  in  dreams) 
with  ever  the  “inevitable  descent  from  the  sky.”  It  is  proper  then  to 
insist  upon  the  force  of  the  objective  vision  in  the  precision  of  the  por¬ 
traits  (Pan  in  Antique),  of  the  setting  ( Scenes )  of  the  landscape  (“on 
the  right  ,”  “the  left  bank”  in  Ornieres)  ;  but  care  must  be  taken 

not  to  exaggerate  Rimbaud’s  passivity.  His  artistic  will  manifests  it¬ 
self  fully  in  the  large  images  which  unfold  at  the  end  of  Mystique 


106  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

(a  masterpiece  of  construction  and  of  suggestion)  or  in  these  last 
lines  of  Fleurs:  “Like  unto  a  god  with  enormous  blue  eyes  and  snowy 
forms,  sea  and  earth  attract  the  throng  of  young,  strong  roses  towards 
the  marble  terraces.”  The  writer  who  pretended  to  “order  the  form 
and  the  movement  of  each  consonant  and,  with  instinctive  rhythms,  to 
invent  a  poetic  speech,”  is  found  again  in  the  ineffable  music  of  Larme: 

L’eau  des  bois  se  perdait  sur  les  sables  vierges, 

Le  vent  de  Dieu  jetait  des  glaqons  aux  mares, 

Et  tel  qu’un  pecheur  d’ or  et  de  eoquillages , 

Dire  que  je  n’ai  pas  eu  le  souci  de  boire! 

Characteristically  his  are  the  abrupt  returns  of  lucid  humour:  “The 
pavilion  of  bloody  meat  on  the  silk  of  the  seas  and  of  the  arctic  flowers 
(they  do  not  exist)  .  .  .”  ( Barbare ),  as  well  as  the  noisy  cries  of  “for 
sale”  in  Solde.  Nothing  is  more  personal  to  Rimbaud  than  the  sudden 
passage  from  concrete  to  abstract :  “I  think  of  a  war,  of  right  or  of 
force,  of  quite  unforeseen  logic.  It  is  as  simple  as  a  musical  phrase” 
( Guerre ),  denoting  a  thought  which  does  not  abdicate.  For,  should 
it  be  absolutely  necessary  to  go  to  an  extreme,  it  would  be  truer  to 
assert  that  he  never  gives  in,  that  in  Les  Illuminations  as  in  his  wan¬ 
derings  with  Verlaine,  he  remains,  as  he  has  written,  “in  haste 
to  find  the  place  and  the  formula.” 

He  is  inaccessible  to  sentimental  lacerations ;  but  an  intellectual 
crisis  torments  him.  Literature  was  for  him  merely  a  means  of  self- 
expression.  At  the  first  stroke  he  caught  up  with  his  elders — surpassed 
them  even.  The  regular  verse  no  longer  sufficing  the  visions  of  Marine 
and  of  Mouvement,  he  created  the  verse  paragraph  ( verset )  in  which 
the  scope  of  the  voice  forms  the  sole  unity.  The  prose  A  une  raison 
forms  an  introduction  to  all  contemporary  art :  “A  stroke  of  your  fin¬ 
ger  on  the  drum  discharges  all  the  sounds  and  begins  the  new  harmony 
.  .  .  Arrived  from  always,  you  will  leave  everywhere.”  He  did  not 
want  to  linger  however.  This  work  was  but  preliminary:  “You  are 
still  at  the  stage  of  Anthony’s  temptation.”  He  had  to  express  himself 
elsewhere,  in  terms  of  life.  Beneath  the  symbols  he  cleared  his  way, 
through  Conte,  Fairy,  Being  Beauteous,  to  reach  the  conclusion  of 
Roy  ante:  “They  were  kings  all  one  morning,  when  carmine  hangings 
were  draped  on  the  houses,  and  all  the  afternoon,  when  they  advanced 
skirting  the  palm  gardens.” 

He  had  understood  the  danger  of  this  spiritual  royalty:  “I  end 
by  finding  the  disorder  of  my  spirit  sacred.”  His  strong  classical  cul¬ 
ture  and  the  memories  of  his  religious  education  rebelled  equally  at  the 


SYMBOLISM  107 

idea  he  might  become  the  docile  victim  of  his  own  illuminations.  The 
mysterious  “I  could  not  continue,  it  was  wrong”  heard  on  his  death¬ 
bed,  was  perhaps  but  a  supreme  justification  of  his  inflexible  insurgent 
reason.  Preoccupied  exclusively  with  “saying  good-bye  to  the  world 
in  species  of  love-songs,”  he  gave  the  most  poignantly  simple  accent 
to  the  four  poems  he  intended  to  unite  under  the  title  of  Fetes  de 
la  Patience.  The  cycle  of  pride  in  entranced  creation  and  of  detach¬ 
ment  was  closing.  He  could  conclude :  “I  have  brewed  my  blood.  My 
duty  is  remitted.  I  must  no  longer  even  think  of  that.  I  am  really  of 
the  Beyond,  and  no  commissions.” 

Proud  enough  to  deem  himself  accountable  to  no  one  for  his  evolu¬ 
tion,  Rimbaud  was  too  lucid  not  to  exact  of  himself  the  complete  ac¬ 
count  of  that  extraordinary  escape :  “I  have  dreamed  of  seeking  the 
key  to  the  ancient  festal  ...  I  detach  for  you  these  few  hideous  leaves 
from  my  note-book  of  a  soul  in  hell.”  He  might  have  repeated  from 
it  what  he  wrote  as  an  introduction  to  Deserts  de  V Amour:  “Sweet 
religious  considerations  arise  from  them  perhaps.”  La  Saison  en 
Enfer  indicates  his  return  to  Christianity;  but  it  is  important  to  re¬ 
mark  he  had  never  been  extremely  far  from  it,  the  revolutionary  faith 
which  made  him  write  Mort  a  Dieu!  on  the  public  benches  of  Charle- 
ville,  being  merely  a  transposition.  It  must  above  all  be  noted  that  he 
was  separated  from  it  by  none  of  the  ordinary  obstacles,  “not  having 
loved  women — although  full-blooded”  and  being  persuaded  that  “love  is 
to  be  reinvented” ;  but  rather  by  a  strange  sentiment  of  which  La 
Saison  will  yield  us  the  secret.  For  this  book  is  less  the  account  of  the 
conversion  of  one  lukewarm  in  his  observances  than  the  story  of  the 
prodigious  turning  of  an  entire  being  against  himself. 

Let  us  follow  him  on  his  rough  road.  “We  go  to  the  Spirit,”  he 
proclaims  in  Mauvais  Sang.  Such  at  the  outset  is  his  one  conviction. 
The  conflict  begins :  “The  pagan  blood  returns.”  He  wants  to  flee . 
“My  day  is  done.  I  am  leaving  Europe  ...  I  will  return  ...  I 
shall  have  gold  .  .  .  Saved!”  Alas!  “Not  leaving.”  He  remains 
prey  to  confused  appeals :  “De  profundis,  Domine.  What  an  ass  I 
am !”  He  struggles ;  then :  “I  have  received  in  my  heart  the  gift  of 
grace.”  He  rebels,  tries  to  show  that,  by  nature,  he  is  not  subject  to 
this  grace,  that  he  escapes  its  laws.  Impossible:  “Life  is  the  farce  to 
be  played  by  all  .  .  .  Forward !”  And  it  is  Hell,  described  in  Nuit  de 
VEnfer  and  Delires.  He  emerges  at  last :  “I  saw  the  consoling  Christ 
arise.”  The  struggle  begins  again.  He  opposes  Orient  to  Occident, 
turns  towards  the  past  and  “Eden.”  Illusion.  It  is  m  the  future  he 
will  find  the  purity  to  which  he  aspires :  “It  is  this  minute  of  awaken- 


108  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

ing  that  has  given  me  the  vision  of  purity !  By  the  spirit  we  go  to 
God !”  Confronted  with  his  duty,  a  last  revolt :  “I !  I  who  have 
called  myself  magus  or  angel,  exempt  from  all  morality,  I  am  given 
back  to  the  soil  with  a  duty  to  seek  and  a  rugged  reality  to  grasp. 
Peasant !”  He  will,  however,  have  the  courage  “to  cut  the  poetry  from 
his  living  flesh”  (Mallarme).  Paradisiac  apparitions  are  his  reward; 
and  here  is  the  end:  “I  shall  be  permitted  to  possess  truth  in  a  soul 
and  a  body.”  La  Saison  stops  here.  Henceforth  Rimbaud  did  noth¬ 
ing  else,  according  to  his  old  presentiment,  than  “conduct  himself  to 
death  as  to  a  terrible,  fatal  modesty.” 

Such  is  this  breathless  drama.  All  Rimbaud’s  soul  is  revealed  there, 
in  flashes  blinding  for  the  first  glance:  “I,  I  am  intact,  and  I  don’t 
care.  I  have  ever  been  of  an  inferior  race  ...  I  am  of  a  race  in¬ 
ferior  for  all  eternity  ...  I  remember  no  further  than  this  earth  and 
Christianity.”  If  he  was  a  criminal  it  was,  he  says,  “at  an  imme¬ 
morial  epoch.”  His  silence  is  as  enigmatic  as  his  stormy  outbursts : 
“I  understand  and,  not  knowing  how  to  explain  myself  without  pagan 
words,  I  should  like  to  remain  silent.”  What  does  he  mean  by  this? 
Literally,  that  he  is  not  of  this  earth,  that  he  does  not  belong  to  our 
universe,  that  he  remains  irreducible  to  our  measures :  “Orgy  and 
the  comradeship  of  women  were  forbidden  me  ...  I  have  never  been 
of  these  people,  I  have  never  been  a  Christian.”  His  friend  Verlaine 
had  called  him  “an  angel  in  exile.”  Jacques  Riviere’s  minute  analysis 
confirms  this  poetical  intuition.  Rimbaud  is  “unmanageable  ...  I 
am  a  beast,  a  Negro.”  He  is  anterior  to  the  notion  of  sin.  Why 
speak  to  him  of  redemption?  But  “the  white  men  land.”  He  is 
baptized  by  force  and  treacherously  stricken  with  grace:  “Ah!  I 
had  not  foreseen  it !”  However,  he  revolts  against  the  humiliation  of 
this  easy  salvation  when  “the  clock  will  not  have  reached  the  point  of 
no  longer  striking  any  hour  but  that  of  pure  suffering.”  He  bears  in 
himself  a  more  superhuman  ideal :  “Let  us  appreciate  without  vertigo 
the  extent  of  my  innocence.”  He  demands  “liberty  in  salvation.” 
Now  a  degradation  has  been  forced  upon  him:  “I  am  the  slave  of  my 
baptism.”  He  was  anterior  to  all  pollution  and  “hell  cannot  attack 
the  pagans.”  He  suffers  nevertheless  all  the  anguish  of  hell.  He  is 
in  hell,  because  he  is  far  from  heaven,  because  he  is  in  the  world:  “I 
am  no  longer  in  the  world  .  .  .  decidedly  we  are  out  of  the  world  .  .  . 
Real  life  is  absent,  we  are  not  in  the  world.”  Earth  is  his  hell,  the 
earth  is  not  “the  world,”  that  sinless  world  which  is  that  of  the  an^^els, 
“of  the  sons  of  the  Sun”  of  whom  he  is  one.  This  unheard-of  origin¬ 
ality  which  explains  all  that  is  inhuman  in  his  genius,  this  sense  of  being 
incomparably  different  from  other  men,  was  the  last  thing  he  had  to 


SYMBOLISM  109 

kill  in  himself :  “I  have  created  all  the  feasts,  all  the  triumphs,  all 
the  dramas.  I  have  tried  to  invent  new  flowers,  new  stars,  new  flesh, 
new  tongues.  I  have  thought  to  acquire  supernatural  powers.  Well ! 
I  must  bury  my  imagination  and  my  memories !  A  fine  fame  as  artist 
and  story-teller  borne  away. 

Did  he  really  bear  it  away  into  his  retirement?  Is  not  La  Saison  en 
Enfer,  the  autobiography  which  he  attempted  to  destroy  but  which  was 
manifestly  first  written  for  a  reader,  one  of  the  masterpieces  of  French 
prose?  “Diamond  prose,”  said  Verlaine,  in  which  is  manifested,  adds 
Claudel,  “the  full  mastery  of  his  art.”  We  here  see  all  Rimbaud’s 
qualities  at  his  highest  point.  First  his  violence,  with  the  abrupt 
intervals  of  harsh  irony,  the  “how  stupid  it  is !  -  .  .  Horror  of  my 
stupidity !  .  .  .  Queer  mates !”  which  recall  the  bad  temper  of  his  inti¬ 
mate  letters,  with  the  deliberately  coarse  images  (“I  do  not  believe 
myself  embarked  for  a  marriage  feast  with  Jesus  Christ  as  a  father- 
in-law”),  with  the  paroxysms  of  abuse  and  mockery:  “Marchand, 
you  are  a  negro.  Magistrate,  you  are  a  Negro.  General,  you  are  a 
Negro.  Emperor,  old  itch,  you  are  a  Negro  .  .  .”  As  in  Les  Illumi¬ 
nations  the  visions  file  by  roads,  cities,  beaches,  paradise.  Everything 
becomes  objective.  He  howls :  “Where  are  we  going?  To  the  fight? 
I  am  weak!  The  others  advance.  Tools,  arms  .  .  .  Time!  .  .  . 
Fire !  Fire  on  me !  There !  or  I  surrender.  Cowards  !  I  kill  myself  ! 
I  throw  myself  under  the  horses’  hoofs!  .  .  .  Ah!  .  .  .”  The  lyrical 
exaltation  ends  in  frenzy:  “Hunger,  thirst,  cries,  dance,  dance,  dance, 
dance !” 

But,  just  as  his  brutality  among  men  masked  a  subtle  simplicity,  so 
does  his  art  shed  this  appearance  of  pure  violence.  The  conflicts  he 
depicts  have  not  always  the  bitterness  of  Mauvais  Sang.  He  has  given 
us  a  double  portrait  of  himself,  directly  in  Alchimie  du  verbe,  indirectly 
in  the  account  of  the  foolish  virgin  who  could  not  understand  this  be¬ 
ing  charged  “with  a  mission  of  bewilderment”  (Riviere).  What  un¬ 
forgettable  images  he  found  to  express  these  spiritual  struggles :  “In 
the  morning  I  had  so  lost  a  look  and  so  dead  a  countenance  that  those 
I  met  did  not  perhaps  see  me  ...  I  was  in  his  soul  as  in  a  palace 
which  has  been  emptied  so  that  a  person  as  little  noble  as  you  shall  not 
be  seen  there” ;  and,  the  better  to  evoke  them,  what  strains  as  yet  un¬ 
heard  :  “Beside  his  dear  sleeping  body,  how  many  hours  of  the  night 
have  I  kept  watch,  seeking  why  he  wanted  so  much  to  escape  from  real- 
The  spiritual  combat  is  as  brutal  as  the  human  battle ,  but  the 
vision  of  justice  is  the  pleasure  of  God  alone.” 

Finally,  higher  still  than  these  grave  harmonies,  sits  enthroned  a 
flawless  intelligence  which  “had  the  pity  of  a  mother  unkind  to  little 


110  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

children.”  Among  the  phantoms  where  others  would  founder,  Rim¬ 
baud  keeps  his  precision:  “I  became  accustomed  to  simple  hallucina¬ 
tion  .  .  .  Then  I  explained  my  magic  sophisms  with  the  hallucination 
of  words.”  Nothing  disarms  his  clear-sightedness:  “I  made  him 
promise  he  would  not  let  me  go.  He  made  this  lover’s  promise  twenty 
times.  It  was  as  vain  as  my  saying  to  him:  ‘I  understand  you.’” 
Let  those  who  might  be  tempted  to  believe  in  his  unconsciousness  com¬ 
pare  with  the  first  sketch  the  definitive  density  of  these  sentences :  “I 
became  a  fabulous  opera.  I  saw  that  all  beings  have  a  fatality  of 
happiness.  Action  is  not  life,  but  a  way  of  making  a  mess  of  some¬ 
thing,  an  enervation.  Morality  is  cerebral  weakness.”  And  let  them 
measure  the  poignant  art  of  his  supreme  simplicity :  “That  is  past. 
I  can  to-day  salute  beauty.” 

“Saluting  beauty”  is  easy.  Determining  its  influence  is  less  con¬ 
venient.  Gourmont  deemed  it  null.  He  said  so,  even  repeating  it  in 
Latin  for  greater  certainty:  “This  boy  of  genius  .  .  .  was  a  freak 
of  nature,  lusus  natures  .  .  .  These  fragments  were  published  too  late 
to  have  a  real  literary  influence.”  Such  was  by  no  means  the  opinion 
of  Verlaine  who  spoke  from  experience,  and  Paul  Claudel  has  pro¬ 
claimed  his  debt  to  Rimbaud.  At  the  beginning  of  his  whimsical 
Anicet,  Louis  Aragon  chose  Rimbaud  as  the  symbol  of  a  state  of  mind 
which  the  youth  of  1920  refused  to  understand.  Even  should  it  suffer 
momentary  eclipses  in  public  favour,  Rimbaud’s  work  is  none  the  less 
certain  to  find,  in  each  generation,  fervent  readers ;  and  it  will  surely 
be  for  them,  as  he  himself  had  dreamed,  “soul  for  the  soul,  thought  lock¬ 
ing  thought  and  dragging.” 

4.  rAUL  VERLAINE 

Paul  Verlaine’s  agitated  life  has  been  often  and  minutely  told.1 
We  shall  retain  nothing  of  it  here  but  what  will  aid  us  more  clearly  to 
understand  the  development  of  his  work — it  being  thoroughly  under¬ 
stood,  however,  that  we  shall  seek  there  general  indications  only,  since, 
in  arranging  his  collected  works,  Verlaine  was  concerned  with  the 
artistic  effect  rather  than  with  chronological  sequence  or  psychological 
unity. 

His  first  book,  Les  Poemes  saturniens  (1866),  indicates,  in  addition 
to  more  or  less  accidental  Parnassian  influences,  the  intimate  masters 
from  whom  he  derived,  Sainte-Beuve  and  Baudelaire.  Yet  already  are 
heard  in  it  the  accents  of  the  voice  which,  for  the  future,  will  be 
the  voice  of  Verlaine.  Three  years  later  Les  Fetes  galantes,  inspired 

i  See,  notably,  the  books  by  his  friends,  Edmund  Lepelletier  and  Ernest  Delahaye. 
Consult  also  his  Correspondance  published,  with  notes,  by  Ad,  Van  Bever. 


SYMBOLISM  111 

by  reading  the  Goncourts  and  looking  at  Watteau,  offered  his  readers 
a  deliciously  rouged  and  powdered  Verlaine.  He  appears  without  a 
mask  in  La  Bonne  Chanson  (1870),  a  “flower  in  a  bombshell,”  as  Hugo 
called  it,  which  celebrates  his  engagement  and  marriage  at  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  the  war — “in  the  fairly  voluminous  baggage  of  my  verse,  the 
one  which  I  should  prefer  as  sincere  par  excellence,”  he  wrote  later. 
Then  came  the  great  sentimental  and  intellectual  crisis,  the  collapse 
of  his  conjugal  happiness,  the  jealous  break  with  Rimbaud  culminat¬ 
ing  in  the  tragi-comedy  at  Brussels  (July,  1873).  During  his  im¬ 
prisonment  his  friend  Lepelletier  printed  the  Romances  sans  paroles 
which  did  not  suffice  to  bring  Paul  Verlaine’s  name  to  the  attention  of 
the  public.  The  human  ordeal  led  him  back  to  God  and,  in  1881,  he 
published  the  Christian  collection,  Sagesse,  the  first  “public  act  of 
faith”  of  this  “submissive  son  of  the  Church”  whose  ambition  then  was 
to  produce  nothing  that  could  shock  “the  delicacy  of  any  Catholic 
ear.” 

Sagesse  passed  almost  unnoticed;  but  Verlaine,  turn  by  turn  func¬ 
tionary,  vagabond,  professor  and  farmer,  devoted  himself  thenceforth 
to  literature.  He  began  Les  Poetes  maudits,  freed  himself  from  the 
cegri  somnia  of  Jadis  et  Naguere  and  published  that  Art  Poetique 
which  caused  him  to  be  consecrated  chef  d  ecole.  One  after  another 
fresh  misfortunes  befell  him :  the  disaster  of  a  second  agricultural  en 
terprise,  the  death  of  his  mother  and  of  his  adopted  son,  Lucien 
Letinois.  Amour  is  the  response  of  his  Christian  soul  to  these  repeated 
sorrows.  He  came  back  to  Paris  where  he  was  to  lead,  ten  years 
longer,  a  wretched  yet  glorious  existence,  going  from  cafe  to  hovel  and 
to  hospital,  While  the  “ jewnes ”  hailed  in  him  the  Prince  of  Poets.  To 
remain  quite  faithful  to  himself,  he  had  the  idea,  as  he  said,  of  in¬ 
augurating  a  system  based  upon  the  famous  homo  duplex,  and  of  giv¬ 
ing  each  of  his  Catholic  volumes  a  more  worldly  counterpart” :  Jadis 
et  Naguere  after  Sagesse,  Parallelement  after  Amour,  Chansons  pour 
elle  after  Bonheur,  Odes  en  son  honneur  after  Liturgies  intimes.  This 
alternation  is  due  less  to  a  system  than  to  the  need  of  interpreting  the 
amazing  mixture  of  artless  faith  and  of  eroticism  whetted  by  the  in¬ 
temperance  which  made  of  this  Bohemian  genius  our  modern  Villon. 

Paul  Verlaine  was  a  very  great  poet.  His  originality  comes  out 
more  clearly  when  the  chaff  has  been  winnowed  from  his  work.  There 
are  far  too  many  imitations  in  Les  Poemes  saturniens.  Some  are  suc¬ 
cessful,  such  as  the  Parnassian  Effet  de  Nuit  or  the  Baudelairian 
Serenade;  but  the  lingering  trace  of  conventional  romanticism  m  the 
Nocturne  parisien  spoils  its  modern  inspiration  and  Cavitn  is  but 
bargain-counter  Leconte  de  Lisle.  Jadis  et  Naguxre  contains,  m  ad- 


112  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

dition  to  the  fine  poems  of  Cellulairement,  many  beginners’  essays, 
while  the  imitations  are  not  limited  to  the  section  entitled  “a  la  maniere 
de  plusieurs.'’'>  When  Verlaine  wrote  the  line: 

Dans  une  obsession  de  muse  et  de  ben  join , 

he  remembered  Baudelaire  and  invented  nothing.  Crimen  Amoris  in 
which  he  paints  Rimbaud,  “the  fairest  of  all  these  fallen  angels,” 
touches  the  psychologist  more  than  the  lover  of  poetry  who  will  prefer 
the  works  of  the  grand  damnes  themselves  to  this  explanation.  In 
Amour, 

Ce  mien  livre,  d’emoi  cruel  et  de  detresse, 

we  should  gladly  dispense  with  the  series  of  friendly  sonnets  and 
that  apology  for  the  patriotic  folderol  ( Gais  et  Contents )  of  an  easily 
exalted  native  of  Metz.  The  last  volumes  contain  an  enormous  amount 
of  garrulousness,  whether  parodies  on  poems  “in  the  manner  of  Paul 
Verlaine”  or  interminable  sermons  in  which  the  poet  settles  his  little 
personal  affairs  with  heaven.  All  this,  which  is  tedious  enough,  is  still 
less  so  perhaps  than,  in  the  “sinner”  collections,  the  monotony  with 
which  he  preaches 

U embarquement  pour  Sodome  et  Gomorrhe 

( Far  allelement ) . 

The  somewhat  Baudelairian  sonnets  on  Les  Amies  may  still  pass  mus¬ 
ter  ;  but  it  is  hard  not  to  feel  a  touch  of  nausea  at  the  senile  craving 
which  inspires  him  with  eternal  descriptions  of  alcoves,  of  women’s 
bodies,  of  chemises,  of  kitchen-wenches  hunting  their  lice. 

And  yet  even  in  the  least  successful  of  these  volumes  the  reader  will 
find  the  qualities  which  cause  this  poet  to  be  forgiven  everything:  a 
lyrical  spontaneity  which  once  again  reminds  us  of  Villon,  an 
impish  candour  in  speaking  of  himself,  the  guileless  excuses  of  a  faun 
who  would  have  liked  to  be  a  hermit  and  who  avenges  himself  for  his 
moral  defeats  by  the  artistic  victories  of  Reversibilites,  a  masterpiece 
of  clever  construction,  or  of  Impression  fausse  whose  vague  music 
haunts  for  ever  ear  and  soul. 

The  ingenuous  visage,  pure  in  spite  of  all,  which  he  thus  unveils  to 
us  amid  the  ugliest  blemishes  and  the  most  prosaic  lapses,  is  the  sole 
idea  of  the  poet  posterity  should  retain.  The  revolutionary  novelty 
of  his  poetry  lies  in  this  spontaneity,  this  renunciation  of  every  con¬ 
vention,  the  even  simplicity  of  the  confidential  verses : 

Le  premier  “oui”  qui  sort  des  levres  bien-aimees  .  .  . 

TJ atmosphere  ambiante  a  des  bowsers  de  sceur  .  .  . 


SYMBOLISM  113 

It  has  been  said  he  had  the  soul  of  a  child.  That  is  exact  for  the  ex¬ 
pression  of  his  complete  abandonment  to  woman — to  the  vigilant 
mother  as  well  as  to  the  mistress.  One  half  of  this  homo  duplex  he 
owned  to  incarnating  was  so  perfectly  adapted  to  tranquil  happi¬ 
ness,  welcomed  marriage  so  joyously.  Warned  “it  was  all  right 
for  once,”  he  persuaded  himself  so  quickly  that  they  were  going  to  be¬ 
gin  again  and  that  all  would  be  well.  He  had  such  faith  in  his  good 
resolutions : 

Oui,  je  veux  marcher  droit  et  calme  dans  la  Vie! 

( Bonne  Chanson ) 

— that  life  the  spectacles  of  which  inspired  him  with  his  incomparable 
elegies ;  and  this  same  amorous  abandonment  to  women  and  to  life 
he  brought,  childlike,  to  the  feet  of  the  Virgin: 

Je  ne  veux  plus  aimer  que  ma  mere  Marie.  .  .  . 

This  simplicity  is  the  only  Christian  virtue  he  dares  fully  lay  claim  to, 
if  he  opposes  heart  to  heart : 

Moi,  le  mien  bat  tou jours  le  merne, 

II  est  toujour s  simple  .  .  .  (Amour). 

He  would  be  humble : 

Ma  Foi,  celle  du  charbonnier  (Amour). 

Le  seul  savant,  c’est  encore  Moise  .  .  .  (Sagesse) . 

Reacting  against  the  pride  of  his  contemporaries  he  attains  in  his 
confessions  (Conte)  a  real  humility,  nor  is  his  supreme  prayer  more 
feigned : 

Priez  avec  et  pour  le  pauvre  Lelian. 

His  deliberately  limited  Catholicism  caused  him  to  write  the  un¬ 
adorned  songs  of  the  Liturgies  intimes : 

La  myrrhe,  Vor  et  Vencens 
Sont  des  presents  moins  aimables 
Que  de  plus  humbles  presents 
Offerts  aux  yeux  adorables. 

There  is  no  affectation  in  the  familiar  debates  with  his  conscience : 

Ah!  les  autres,  ah!  toi!  Credule  a  qui  te  flatte, 

Ten  qui  revais  (e’etait  trop  excessif  aussi) 

Je  ne  sais  quelle  mort  legere  et  delicate, 

Ah!  toi,  Vespece  d’atnge  avec  ce  veeu  transi!  (Sagesse) 


114.  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

or  in  the  sharpness  of  his  rebukes:  “You  are  no  longer  good  for  any¬ 
thing  decent  .  .  Religion  enlarges  his  horizon.  He  dreams  of  es¬ 
caping  from  his  age.  He  would  like  to  have  been  born  at  the  end  of 
the  seventeenth  century.  Then  a  sudden  recall  of  obedience  turns  him 
from  this : 

Non!  il  fut  Galilean,  ce  siecle,  et  Janseniste, 

and  he  sees  himself  transported  to  the  Middle  Ages,  to  that  portal  of 
Chartres  perhaps  where  Huysmans  recognized  him  in  Saint  Jude. 
No  doubt  he  is  sometimes  terribly  didactic.  His  contrast  between  the 
Virgin  and  the  statues  of  Hecuba  and  Niobe,  symbolically  pagan,  is 
no  more  convincing  than  the  graceless  verses  of  Cir concision;  but  such 
excessive  dryness  is  rare.  As  a  rule  he  does  not  cease  to  be  a  poet 
to  become  a  Christian.  To  the  description  of  divine  love  he  brings 
pagan  details : 

Et  que  voire  plaisir,  o  Jesus,  s’assouvisse  .  .  .  (Bonheur) . 

A  moving  human  appeal  brings  him  back  to  our  earth : 

Beaute  des  femmes,  leur  faiblesse,  et  ces  mains  pales  .  .  . 

( Sagesse ). 

He  keeps  the  art  of  restoring  to  soft  feminine  rhymes  all  their  ador¬ 
able  music : 

Ecoutez  la  chanson  bien  douce  .  .  . 

Un  frisson  d’eau  sur  de  la  mousse  .  .  .  (.Sagesse) . 

When,  for  this  poet  of  all  the  abandonments,  sounds  at  last  the  hour 
for  the  supreme  abandonment  to  divine  love,  nothing  can  equal  the 
lyrical  intensity  of  his  prayer: 

O  mon  Dieu,  vous  m’avez  blesse  d’ amour  .  .  . 

and  of  the  sonnet  sequence:  “ Mon  Dieu  m’a  dit  .  .  .”  which  makes 
Sagesse  an  authentic  masterpiece. 

Now  so  much  inspiration  was  not  in  vain.  Divine  love  purified  hu¬ 
man  love  in  his  heart.  This  “irregular”  was  to  celebrate  the  family 
with  an  emotional  power  infinitely  greater  than  that  of  Hugo  whose 
rhetoric  always  lays  his  sincerity  open  to  suspicion.  An  irresistible 
emotion  penetrates  these  poems.  In  Amour  one  should  read  the  va¬ 
rious  poems  on  Lucien  Lietinois,  those  reminders  of  their  walks,  of 
their  work,  of  their  reading,  of  the  child’s  laughter  and  his  voice.  One 
should  listen  to  the  litany  of  tender  praises  his  father  addresses  him 
in  order  to  measure  the  greatness  of  the  poet  who  bowed  before  the 
celestial  will : 


SYMBOLISM  115 

Mon  -fils  est  mort.  J’ adore,  0  mon  Dieu,  votre  loi  .  .  . 

V ous  me  I’aviez  donnej  vous  me  le  reprenez : 

Gloire  a  vous!  .  .  . 

Great  poet  of  the  soul,  Verlaine  remains  one  of  our  most  refined  art¬ 
ists  as  well.  With  his  smiling  ingenuousness  is  associated  an  extreme 
subtlety,  a  taste  for  unstable,  ambiguous  ties.  As  early  as  Les  Poemes 
saturniens ,  the  Chanson  des  Ingenues  hinted  at  this  side  of  his  talent. 
He  reveals  it  at  his  ease  in  Les  Fetes  galantes,  images  of  an  idealized 
eighteenth  century.  All  the  animation  of  Italian  comedy  lives  again 
under  our  eyes  ( Pantomime  Colombine,  Sur  Vherbe ).  The  eternal 
fantoches  bustle  about  set  in  motion  by  the  whim  of  the  poet  whom  it 
will  often  please  thus  to  confuse  the  fine  fancies.  The  personages  who 
pass  in  this  setting  are  scarcely  more  real.  They  tell  the  brevity  of 
pleasure  {En  Bateau,  Le  Faune ),  with  here  and  there  a  pretty  libertine 
touch  {Cy  there),  the  intoxication  of  language  ( A  Clymene,  first  title 
Galimatias  double),  exchange  easy  impertinences  ( Lettre )  and,  when 
the  sticks  of  these  rockets  fall  back  to  earth,  they  maintain,  in  their 
regrets,  a  spectral  dignity  ( Collogue  sentimental) .  He  who  animated 
them  with  his  breath  glides  delicately  over  the  transparent  symbolism 
of  things: 

Le  vent  de  l’, autre  nuit  a  jete  bas  l’ Amour  .  .  . 

He  sings  their  transports  in  poems  which  are  the  scented  underwoods  of 
our  literature  ( A  la  promenade) .  In  twelve  lines  ( Clair  de  lune),  he 
sums  up  a  world  of  picturesque  “Marivaudage,”  bathed  in  an  atmos¬ 
phere  of  subtle  melancholy  and  of  unreality  whence  the  lyricism 
springs  in  great  fountains.  He  catches  for  ever  their  most  perversely 
complex  sentiments : 

Le  soir  tombait,  un  soir  equivoque  d’ automne ; 

Les  belles  se  pendant  reveuses  a  nos  bras 

Dirent  alors  des  mots  si  precieux,  tout  bas, 

Que  notre  ame  depuis  ce  temps  tremble  et  s’etonne  .  .  . 

{Les  Ingenues) 

and  his  verses — miraculously — accord  their  rhythms  with  the  stifled 
beating  of  their  hearts  : 

Calmes  dans  le  demi-jour 
Que  les  branches  huutes  font, 

Penetrons  bien  notre  amour 

De  ce  silence  profond  .  .  .  {En  Sourdine). 

“ Sagesse  is  admirable,”  Mallarme  said  to  him  in  1883 ;  but  .  .  . 
why  should  you  not  try  to  do  some  new  Fetes  Galantes?” — amazing 


116  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

lack  of  understanding  of  the  artist  who  stops  at  the  first  artistic 
success!  Verlaine  was  indeed  to  publish  in  Jadis  et  Naguere  his 
comedy  Les  Uns  et  les  Autres  (written  before  1870),  in  which  the 
deep  emotion  is  stemmed  only  by  the  voluntary  nonchalance  of  an 
artificial  civilization : 


La  vie  est-elle  une  chose 
Grave  et  reelle  a  ce  point ? 

but  he  knew  that  the  essence  of  his  art  lay  elsewhere,  that  this  “ Mari - 
vaudage”  lent  a  false  air  of  spiritual  distraction  to  a  thought  which 
found  full  satisfaction  in  pure  music  only.  The  musicians  who,  from 
Faure  to  Debussy,  have  prolonged  the  echoes  of  his  harmonies,  have 
not  been  mistaken.  Huysmans  had  forestalled  them  when  he  wrote: 
“Verlaine,  alone,  has  been  able  to  suggest  certain  disturbing  beyonds 
of  the  soul,  thoughts  whispered  so  low,  avowals  so  murmured,  so 
interrupted,  that  the  ear  which  perceived  them  remained  hesitant.” 
That  Verlaine  could  fill  the  old  alexandrin  with  virile  oratorical  energy 
as  well  as  another,  the  sonnets  to  Louis  II  or  to  Victor  Hugo  would 
suffice  to  prove.  It  is  none  the  less  evident  that  the  two  fundamental 
precepts  of  his  Art  poetique  are 


and 


Prends  V eloquence  et  tords-lui  son  cou! 
De  la  musique  avant  toute  chose. 


The  poem  with  him  tends  to  become  song.  Music  alone,  indeed,  can 
evoke  the  inexpressible  (end  of  Mon  Reve  familier),  imitate  the  fluid 
meanders  of  revery  ( Soleils  couchants,  Crepuscules  du  Soir  mystique) , 
accept  without  reconstructive  effort  the  sequence  of  impressions  (the 
sonnet  L’Espoir  luit )  and  follow  the  caprice  of  an  restless  thought. 
Verlaine  was  conscious  of  owing  his  liberation  to  music.  Through  it 
he  had  freed  himself  from  the  literal  descriptions  of  the  Parnassians. 
Music  had  furnished  him  the  means  of  evoking  more  subtly,  by  the 
sound  as  much  as  by  the  sense,  the  Paysages  helges  or  this  evening  of 
Sagesse : 

Le  son  du  cor  s’afjlige  vers  les  bois 

D’une  douleur  on  veut  croire  orpheline.  .  .  . 


It  had  yielded  him  the  secret  of  the  transposition  of  a  picturesque 
vision  like :  ^ 


L’ombre  des  arbres  dans  la  riviere  embrumee 

( Romances  sans  paroles) 


SYMBOLISM  117 

in  a  sentimental  image  where  a  Debussy  will  in  his  turn  find  a  pretext 
for  a  new  correspondence.  It  had  made  him  master  of  the  troubled 
harmony  of  the  Vers  pour  etre  calomnie  as  well  as  of  the  calm  har¬ 
mony  of  Kaleidoscope  ( Jadis  et  N  aguere) .  He  knew  well  enough  that 
the  most  inexpressibly  “Verlainian”  of  his  poems  were  those  subtly 
naive  songs : 

II  pleure  dans  mon  cceur  .  .  .  ( Ariettes  oubliees )  ; 

Je  suis  venu ,  calme  orphelin  .  .  .  (Sag esse) ; 
those  indefinable  recitatives  as  if  of  a  presence  half  dreamed : 

Dans  Vinterminable 

Ennui  de  la  plaine  .  .  .  (Romances  sans  paroles)  ; 

those  airs  which  seem  to  be  born  after  a  long  waiting  and  suddenly  to 
gush  straight  forth,  without  a  break  in  their  melodic  line: 

0  triste,  triste  etait  mon  ame 

(Romances  sans  paroles) ; 

J’ai  peur  d’un  baiser  .  .  .  (id)  ; 

those  poems  of  sheer  music  finally  which  now  haunt  every  memory, 
like  the  most  fraternal  utterances  of  the  human  soul: 

Les  sanglots  longs 

Des  violons  .  .  .  (Poemes  saturniens) ; 

La  lune  blanche 

Luit  dans  les  bois  .  .  .  (Bonne  Chanson) ; 

II  pleure  dans  mon  cceur 

Comme  il  pleut  sur  la  ville  .  .  . 

(Romances  sans  paroles)  ; 

Le  del  est  par-dessus  le  toit 

Si  bleu ,  si  calme  .  .  .  (Sagesse) . 

Creator  of  music  so  perfect  and  so  altogether  original,  Verlaine 
avoided  the  temptation  offered  by  those  who  invited  him  to  burden  them 
with  a  theoretical  commentary.  He  consented  to  call  himself  a  De¬ 
cadent  because  the  epithet  pleased  him;  but,  if  Symbolist  has  a  mean¬ 
ing,  he,  so  limpid,  was  one  far  less  than  Rimbaud.  In  his  Art  poetique, 
beyond  his  hatred  of  eloquence  and  his  love  of  music,  he  expresses 
his  tenderness  for  the  nuance: 


118  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Pas  la  couleur,  rien  que  la  nuance 

and  for 

...  la  chanson  grise 

Ou  VIndecis  au  Precis  se  joint , 

in  which  he  does  little  more  than  learnedly  generalize  his  instinctive 
preferences ;  for  he  did  not  believe  in  tricks : 

Que  ton  vers  soit  la  bonne  aventure  .  .  . 

Et  tout  le  reste  est  litterature. 

His  most  precious  glory  is  that  so  many  poems,  until  then  deemed 
estimable,  now  appear  “literature,”  when  we  think  of  his  which  were  so 
absolutely 

De  la  musique  encore  et  toujours. 

5.  Stephane  Mallarme 

In  his  preface  (1920)  to  a  volume  of,  verse,1  Paul  Valery — who 
was  Mallarme’s  friend  and  the  witness  of  his  last  evolution — has  given 
us  a  Symbolist  self-examination:  “What  was  baptized  Symbolism  is 
summed  up  very  simply  in  the  intention  common  to  several  families  of 
poets  (enemies  moreover  among  themselves),  ‘to  get  back  from  Music 
what  belonged  to  them.’  .  .  .  We  were  brought  up  on  music,  and  our 
literary  heads  dreamed  only  of  deriving  from  language  almost  the 
same  effects  which  purely  sonorous  causes  produced  upon  our  nervous 
system.”  That  Mallarme  was  fully  conscious  of  this  orientation  and 
was  in  such  a  sense  chef  d’ecole,  his  own  declarations  bear  witness : 
“A  musical  concern  dominates  and  I  shall  interpret  it  in  the  widest 
sense  possible :  Symbolist,  Decadent,  or  Mystic,  the  Schools  .  .  . 
adopt  as  their  meeting-place  the  point  of  an  Idealism  which  (as  in  the 
case  of  fugues,  of  sonatas)  refuses  natural  materials  and,  as  brutal,  a 
direct  thought  ordering  them.  To  keep  of  anything  but  the  sug¬ 
gestion.” 

Here,  however,  we  are  already  arrested  by  one  of  the  antitheses  which 
form  his  literary  visage.2  This  musician  had  made  his  debut  in  Le 
Parnasse  and  never  entirely  forgot  it.  Gourmont  has  recalled  the 
tradition  according  to  which  Baudelaire,  on  reading  Mallarme’s  first 
poems,  was  disturbed  at  seeing  his  successor  start  up  so  quickly. 
Brise  marine  does,  indeed,  enclose  between  its  opening: 

1  Oonnaissance  de  la  DSesse,  by  Lucien  Fabre. 

2  Every  reflection  on  Mallarme  should,  to-day,  begin  with  a  tribute  to  La  Potsie  de 
Stephane  Mallarme ,  a  literary  study  by  Albert  Thibaudet. 


SYMBOLISM  119 

Lfi  chair  est  triste,  helas!  et  j’ai  lu  toust  les  livres , 

and  its  conclusion: 

Mats,  6  man  cceur,  entends  le  chant  des  matelots! 

an  authentically  Baudelairian  meditation.  Le  Sonneur,  Angoisse  and 
Le  Guignon  are  not  less  Baudelairian  in  theme  and  in  accent.  The 
school  of  art  for  art’s  sake  has  produced  nothing  more  minutely  fin¬ 
ished  than  the  delicate  Chinese  invocation  in  Las  de  Vamer  repos. 
Long  before  there  had  been  any  question  of  Symbolism,  Le  Parnasse 
had  taught  the  poet  of  Les  Fenetres  the  use  of  symbols.  He  himself  has, 
among  the  tendencies  of  Le  Parnasse,  noted  “an  adoration  for  the  prop¬ 
erty  of  words.”  For  a  Parnassian,  words  are  precious  stones.  They 
shine  with  all  their  brilliance,  distinct,  exactly  as  Mallarme  was  to  see 
them  in  Prose  pour  Des  Esseintes,  as  he  was  to  use  them  in  the  beautiful 
Parnassian  verses  of  that  Herodiade  which  is  transitional  between 
Salammbo  and  Gide’s  and  Valery’s  Narcisse.  No  doubt  the  Parnas¬ 
sian  inheritance  leads  him  at  times  to  Delille’s  periphrase — witness  this 
evocation  of  Poe’s  cocktail: 

Dans  le  flot  sans  honneur  de  quelque  noir  melange. 

Perhaps  he  owed  it  also  his  interest  in  the  material  representation  of 
thought— books,  posters,  punctuation,  typographic  details.  Cer¬ 
tainly  he  retains  its  taste  for  visual  images  sometimes  in  violent  collision 
with  the  motor  images  suggested  to  him  by  music  (beginning  of  La 
Chevelure  vol  d'une  flamme ) — a  conflict  he  tries  to  reconcile  in  poetic 
ballet  figures.  This  pictorial  art  was  to  obsess  him  up  to  the  moment 
of  his  greatest  obscurity.  He  devotes  a  whole  sonnet  ( Surgi  de  la 
croupe  et  du  bond )  to  the  description  of  a  vase  without  flowers.  Vic- 
torieusement  fui  le  suicide  beau  is  a  Parnassian  sonnet  transcribed 
afterwards  into  “Mallarme.”  The  two  tercets  of  Tout  orgueil  paint 
in  the  two  languages  the  same  console  bearing  the  same  marble: 

Affres  du  passe  necessaires 
Agrippant  comme  avec  des  serres 
Le  sepulcre  de  desaveu. 

Sous  un  marbre  lourd  quelle  isole 
Ne  s’allume  pas  d’autre  feu 
Que  la  fulgurante  console. 

Mallarme  never  repudiated  Le  Parnasse.  If  he  speaks,  in  1890,  of 
“that  signboard,  now  somewhat  rusty,”  he  adds  that  “at  any  rate  the 
Parnassian  prudence  does  not  remain  useless.”  It  is  as  an  enthusiastic 
Parnassian  that,  arriving  at  Oxford,  he  delivered  himself,  on  the  first 


120  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

occasion,  of  this  incredible  piece  of  news:  “Verse  has  been  tampered 
with !”  He  approved — sometimes  employing  the  octosyllabic  verse — 
“a  sort  of  five-finger  exercise  on”  the  alexandrin,  allowing  free  verse 
among  the  innovators — but  he  concluded :  “I  maintain  that  the  remi¬ 
niscences  of  strict  versification  haunt  these  by-plays  and  are  profitable 
to  them.”  His  Parnassian  austerity  has  well  deserved  Gourmont’s 
praise:  “Never,  contrary  to  the  uneven  Verlaine,  did  he  write  at 
random.” 

He  himself,  however,  denounced  the  Parnassian  illusion,  “the  pre¬ 
tension  of  confining  the  objective  material  in  the  expression.”  Music 
enlightened  him  definitely  on  this  point  and  perhaps  he  failed  to 
understand  the  necessity  of  diverse  metrical  systems  simply  because 
“every  soul  is  a  melody  which  has  to  be  renewed.”  His  real  acquaint¬ 
ance  with  music  came  fairly  late,  during  the  last  ten  or  twelve  years 
of  his  life.  Then  he  met  Wagner — dread  god  who  sometimes  over¬ 
whelmed  him  and  made  him  doubt  literature.  Dying  too  soon  for 
Debussy  to  cure  him  of  Wagner,  this  obsession  was  a  source  of  error 
for  him.  It  reconciled  him — little  objective  as  he  was,  incapable  of 
sustaining  a  dialogue  between  Herodiade  and  her  nurse — to  the  idea  of 
a  theatre  or  at  least  (for  his  mistrust  of  “the  monster  who  cannot  be” 
denounced  to  the  end  “the  allied  error,  stable  setting  and  real  actor, 
of  the  Drama  without  Music”)  with  the  possibility  of  those  theatrical 
services  of  which  a  high  mass  and  Parsifal  seemed  to  him  to  offer  the 
first  realizations.  It  made  him  take  his  sonata,  Le  Coup  de  Des,  for  a 
symphony.  In  return,  it  inspired  him  with  the  vision  of  an  ex¬ 
change  between  the  two  arts  (“several  means  are  found  which,  hav¬ 
ing  seemed  to  me  to  belong  to  letters,  I  take  over  again”)  and  of  a  com¬ 
mon  origin  (“Music  and  Letters  are  the  alternative  face  here  widened 
out  towards  the  obscure ;  scintillant  there,  with  certainty,  of  a  phe¬ 
nomenon,  the  only  one,  I  called  it  the  Idea”).  In  their  conscious 
reconciliation  he  saw  the  hope  of  a  regenerated  poetry:  “Verse  is  go¬ 
ing  to  be  moved  with  some  swaying,  terrible  and  sauve,  like  the  orches¬ 
tra,  wing  spread;  but  with  talons  rooted  in  you.”  He  seeks  conse¬ 
quently  “an  art  of  completing  the  transposition,  in  the  book,  of  the 
symphony  or  simply  of  taking  back  what  belongs  to  us.” 

Long  meditations  reinforced,  moreover,  this  theoretical  discovery. 
He  had  always  strewn  his  poems  with  admirable  isolated  verses ;  but,  in 
the  last  works,  this  seeking  after  musical  effects  becomes  primordial. 
It  leads  to  a  very  learned  art  excluding  spontaneity.  All  the  possi¬ 
bilities  of  the  language  have  been  studied  for  the  effective  utilization  of 
words  like : 


SYMBOLISM  121 

L’Angoisse,  ce  m'muit  soutient,  lampadophore  .  .  . 

De  scintillations  sitot  le  septuor  .  .  . 

and  of  such  lines  as : 

Aboli  bibelot  d’inanite  sonore  .  .  . 

V ictorieusement  fui  le  suicide  beam  .  .  . 

which  justify  his  original  analysis:  “The  verse  which,  of  several  vo¬ 
cables,  remakes  a  total  word,  new,  foreign  to  the  language  and,  as  it 
were,  incantational.”  Fruits  of  long  musical  patience,  the  sonnet  in  i 
major,  Le  Vierge,  le  Vivace  et  le  Bel  Aujourd’hui,  or  this  triplet  of 
light  and  shade : 

Mais  chez  qui  du  reve  se  dore 
Tristement  dort  une  mandore 
Au  creux  neant  musicien. 

In  this  field  Mallarme  has  obtained  incomparable  successes,  triumphs 
of  suggestion  in  which  each  letter  of  each  word  produces  an  effect — 
L’ Event  ail  de  Mademoiselle  Mallarme,  for  example,  or  this  painting  of 
mellow  sweetness  pierced  by  two  great  metallic  notes : 

Mais  langoureusement  longe 
Comme  de  blanc  linge  ote 
Tel  fug  ace  oiseau  se  plonge 
Exultatrice  a  cote 
Dans  I’onde  toi  devenue 
Ta  jubilation  nue.  ( Petit  Air,  /.) 

Learned  poetry — but  poetry  at  times  obscure.  During  his  lifetime 
Mallarme  had  a  reputation  for  obscurity  not  yet  entirely  dissipated. 
He  probably  suffered  from  it.  He  certainly  enjoyed  it.  He  main¬ 
tained  his  notoriety  as  a  mystifier  by  not  explaining  what  he  meant 
by  “putting  back  shadow”  in  certain  of  his  works.  It  is  not  doubt¬ 
ful  that  he  made  for  himself  a  fretwork  manner — which  renders 
very  funny  this  description  of  the  drama  at  Brussels :  “The  gesture 
repulsed  Verlaine  who  fired,  bewildered,  a  pistol,  at  the  indifferent 
and  fell  in  tears  face  forward  .  .  .  Rimbaud  came  back,  his  wound 
dressed,  from  the  hospital  and,  in  the  street,  determined  to  leave,  re¬ 
ceived  another  ball,  now  public.”  It  is  regrettable  that  his  poetry  has 
seemed  only  “a  rose  in  the  shades”  to  well-disposed  readers.  It  is  to 
them  it  should  be  repeated  that,  if  Mallarme  sometimes  brought  to  his 
work  the  obstinacy  of  an  old  maid  who  treats  her  furniture  as  if  it 
were  human,  he  devoted  to  it  however  the  best  of  himself  with  the 
most  heroic  abnegation. 


122  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

A  good  third  of  his  verse  is  as  clear  as  his  fashion  notes  in  La 
Derniere  Mode.  His  reputation  as  a  difficult  author  is  then  founded 
upon  three  poems,  about  twenty  sonnets  and  the  Divagations — collec¬ 
tions  forming,  it  is  true,  the  principal  part  of  his  work.  If  we  seek  the 
reasons  for  his  undeniable  obscurity,  we  shall,  in  the  first  place,  find  his 
hatred  of  the  oratorical.  He  carries  this  to  the  extremity  of  the  follow¬ 
ing  principle:  “To  name  an  object  is  to  suppress  three-quarters  of 
the  enjoyment  of  the  poem  which  consists  in  the  pleasure  of  guessing 
little  by  little.  To  suggest,  that  is  the  dream.”  His  horror  of  develop¬ 
ment,  based,  perhaps,  upon  his  knowledge  of  English  syntax,  less  strict 
than  ours,  suppresses  verbs  and  subordinate  clauses.  It  will  suffice  to 
put  them  back  to  understand: 

Proclamerent  tres  haut  le  sortilege  bu  .  .  . 


or : 


Un  peu  profond  ruisseau  calmonie  la  mart.  .  .  . 

The  two  versions  of  Victorieusement  permit  us  to  seize  on  the  quick  his 
method  of  development  in  depth.  He  treats  these  two  verses : 

Une  millieme  fois  avec  ardeur  s’ apprete 
Mon  solitaire  amour  a  vaincre  le  tombeau 

as  an  initial  premise,  common  to  the  reader  and  himself,  and  he  trans¬ 
forms  them  thus : 

O  rire  si  la-bas  une  pourpre  s’  apprete 
A  ne  tendre  royal  que  mon  absent  tombeau. 

We  see  to  what  powerful  shortcuts  this  refinement  tends.  Let  us 
add  moreover  that  it  is  often  a  response  to  the  difficulty  of  what  he 
wishes  to  express : 

Tel  qu’en  lui-meme  enfin  Veternite  le  change 

condenses  the  contents  of  a  speech  into  twelve  syllables.  The  delicate 
psychology  calls  for  subtle  expression  in  “There  must  be  this  flight 
into  self ;  one  could  again ;  but  self,  does  not  it  already  become  far 
to  withdraw?”  The  obscurity  is  justified,  perhaps  necessary,  when  it 
is  a  matter  of  rendering  the  impression  of  the  already  seen,  of  the  very 
remote  present  ( Rememoration  d’ amis  beiges )  or  that  pursuit  of  a 
verbal  hallucination  ( Le  Demon  de  V analogie)  which  permits  carica¬ 
turists  to  present  the  portrait  of  a  Mallarme  eternally  in  mourning  for 
the  death  of  the  Penultimate.  The  Prose  pour  Des  Esseintes  is  obscure 
because  it  contains  at  once  a  treatise  on  poetic  art,  a  love  poem  and  a 


SYMBOLISM  123 

satire.  That,  in  order  to  appreciate  the  ironically  veiled  emotion  of 
its  final  stanza : 

Avant  qu’un  sepulcre  ne  rie 
Sous  aucun  climat,  son  dieul, 

De  porter  ce  nom:  Pulcherie! 

Cache  par  le  trop  grand  gldieul, 

one  has  had  to  disentangle  in  the  poem  this  triple  current,  reveals  its 
weakness  but  it  also  shows  its  rare  density. 

The  concrete  and  the  abstract  dispute  his  mind  without  coming  to 
any  agreement.  He  is  the  master  of  an  impressionism  which  confuses 
all  the  tenses,  which  dispenses  with  space  and  duration,  mixes  imagina¬ 
tion  and  reality: 

La  chevelure  vol  d’une  flamme  a  V extreme 
Occident  de  desirs  pour  la  tout  deployer 
Se  pose  ( je  dirais  mourir  un  diademe ) 

Vers  le  front  courone  son  ancien  foyer. 

His  real  sensuality  translated  itself,  at  least  once,  in  a  living 
atmosphere : 

Tu  sais,  ma  passion,  que,  pourpre  et  deja  mure, 

Chaque  grenade  eclate  et  d’abeilles  murmure; 

Et  noire  sang,  epris  de  qui  le  va  saisir, 

Coule  pour  tout  I’essaim  eternel  du  desir. 

Here  he  can  avoid  the  crime  of  the  faun  and  does  not  part  “the  di¬ 
shevelled  cluster”  of  the  impressions : 

...  Si  clair, 

Leur  incarnat  leger,  qu’il  voltige  dans  I’air 
Assoupi  de  sommeils  touffus  .  .  . 

but  this  happy  vintage  of  the  real  is  rare.  A  great  deal  of  wit  often 
weighs  upon  this  flesh. 

He  had  always  been  inclined  to  transpose  the  object  into  an  image: 

O  miroir, 

Eaw  froide  par  V ennui  dans  ton  cadre  gelee  .  .  . 

permitting  him  at  once  the  creation  of  other  images  which  the  in¬ 
sufficiently  plastic  reality  did  not  suggest.  The  tendency  was  accen¬ 
tuated  by  his  hatred  of  continuous  development  and  “the  demon  of 
analogy”  which  constructs  a  whole  sonnet  on  a  subtle  crescendo  (swan 
metaphor,  swan  bird,  Swan  \_Cygnus ]  a  constellation  in  Le  Vierge,  le 


124  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Vivace),  as  also  by  his  fondness  for  the  artificial,  embodied  in  that 
Herodiade  who  was  his  Hadaly : 

Et,  pareille  a  la  chair  de  la  femme,  la  rose 

Cruelle,  Herodiade  en  fleur  du  jardin  clair  .  .  .  ( Fleurs ) 

Oui,  c’est  pour  moi,  pour  moi  que  je  fleuris  deserte  .  .  . 

he  made  his  heroine  say ;  and  he  himself  sought  refuge  in  a  kind  of  very 
elusive  mandarinism : 

Je  veux  delaisser  l’ art  vorace  d’un  pays 

Cruel  .  .  . 

Imiter  le  Chinois  au  coeur  limpide  et  fin  .  .  . 

whoi  paints  landscapes  on  a  porcelain  cup.  He  has  carried  this  refine¬ 
ment,  in  Declaration  foraine,  to  the  pedantry  of  a  digression  justifying 
an  irregular  sonnet  by  the  example  of  the  Elizabethans.  This  prefer¬ 
ence  accorded  to  art  over  life  he  has  erected  into  a  proud  principle : 

Ma  faim  qui  d’aucuns  fruits  ici  ne  se  regale 
Trouve  en  leur  docte  manque  une  saveur  egale. 

Not  without  a  persistent  uneasiness.  Long  unrecognized,  he  suf¬ 
fered  from  it.  There  is  a  trace  of  melancholy  in  his  allusion  to  “a 
contemporary  French  poet  excluded  for  various  reasons  from  all  par¬ 
ticipation  in  official  displays  of  beauty.”  He  possessed  none  of  the 
qualities  which  make  a  name  known  to  the  public.  He  loved  privacy, 
inner  retirement,  in  the  home  described  in  several  sonnets,  amid  the 
furniture  of  Frisson  d’hiver.  Shrinking  from  any  contacts  whatsoever, 
he  had  a  feminine  delicacy  well  expressed  by  his  descriptions  of  dress, 
concert  audiences,  a  “fluttered  silence  of  crepe  de  chine.”  He  let  him¬ 
self  be  obsessed  by  the  negative,  by  the  existence  of  a  “being  of  non- 
being”  (Thibaudet),  and  his  Nenuphar  blanc  is  the  masterpiece  of  the 
poem  of  absence.  In  vain  does  he  affirm  with  pathetic  insistence  that 
his  retirement  is  not  a  solitude,  that 

Nous  fumes  deux,  je  le  maintiens. 

He  himself  doubts  it  at  times  and  asks  himself :  has  he  committed  “the 
crime”  of  the  Faune,  dissociated  art  and  life?  Never  did  he  accept 
things  simply,  not  even  his  calling,  “a  linguistic  toil  through  which  my 
noble  poetic  faculty  daily  sobs  at  being  interrupted.”  The  note  to 
the  Coup  de  des  carries  this  mania  for  reticence  to  the  highest  pitch. 
He  published  and  wanted  to  dissuade  us  from  reading  this  preface  to  a 
poem  from  which  will  emerge  “nothing  or  almost  an  art.” 

“Nothing  or  almost  an  art.”  Why  this  sudden  righting  of  the 


SYMBOLISM  125 

phrase  into  an  affirmative?  Because  here  we  touch  the  absolute,  the 
only  domain  in  which  he  no  longer  hesitates.  “I  exhibit  like  a  dandy 
my  incompetence  in  anything  but  the  absolute.”  What  does  the  rest 
matter?  “I  confess  I  give  ideas,  practical  or  for  show,  the  same  in¬ 
attention  borne  along  the  street  by  passing  women.”  The  important 
thing  is  what  is  “gratuitous.”  Vigny  himself  had  not  had  a  more 
exalted  conception  of  the  poet’s  role.  To  define  it  Mallarme  sometimes 
went  astray  in  artificial  works  ( Phenomene  futur,  Plainte  cTautomne) , 
through  generosity,  not  having  made  allowance,  in  Poe  for  mys¬ 
tification,  in  Huysmans  for  unintelligence ;  but  what  nobility  in  his 
really  royal  portrayal  of  Villiers !  No  definition  of  literary  art  is 
firmer  than  his  “Its  magic,  if  it  be  not  to  liberate,  outside  of  a  handful 
of  dust  or  reality  without  enclosing  it,  in  the  book,  even  as  text,  the 
volatile  dispersal  of  wit  which  has  to  do  with  nothing  but  the  musicality 
of  all.”  He  is  not  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  this  aristocratic  attitude 
will  lead  to  outward  detachment  (“Respectful  of  the  common  motive 
as  a  fashion  of  treating  it  indifferently”)  and  to  Narcissism,  “to  defin¬ 
ing  or  to  making,  with  regard  to  oneself,  a  proof  that  the  sight  re¬ 
sponds  to  an  imaginative  comprehension,  it  is  true,  in  the  hope  of  con¬ 
templating  oneself  in  it” ;  but,  sure  of  his  truth  as  soon  as  the  absolute 
alone  is  at  stake,  he  opposes  to.  contradictions  the  smiling  politeness  of 
that  voice  “flatted  with  irony”  (Goncourts’  Journal)  which  we  hear 
in  the  sonnet  Toute  Varne  resumee  or  in  this  passage:  “I  say  that 
there  exists  between  the  old  methods  [of  magic]  and  the  sorcery  which 
poetry  will  remain,  a  secret  parity.  I  state  it  here,  and  perhaps,  per¬ 
sonally,  it  has  delighted  me  to  indicate  it,  by  attempts,  in  a  degree 
which  has  exceeded  the  aptitude  to  enjoy  it  accorded  by  my  con¬ 
temporaries.” 

Were  contemporaries  absolutely  unjust  to  him?  The  reply  is  a  last 
antithesis,  the  union  in  Mallarme  of  a  genius  which  V  A  pres -midi  d’un 
F aune  would  suffice  to  prove  and  of  a  curious  sterility.  “Mallarme,” 
said  Charles  Cros,  “is  a  broken  Baudelaire  and  the  pieces  have  never 
succeeded  in  sticking  themselves  together  again.”  As  in  the  case  of 
Baudelaire,  writing  was  a  labour  for  him.  These  beautiful  verses  of 
Le  Guignon: 

0  Mort,  le  seul  baiser  aua*  bouches  taciturnes  .  .  . 

Et  laisse  un  bloc  boueux  du  blanc  couple  nageur  .  .  . 

were  first  printed: 

La  mort  fut  un  baiser  sur  ces  fronts  taciturnes  .  .  . 

Et  fait  un  fou  crotte  du  superbe  nageur  .  .  . 


126 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


The  first  version  of  Placet  futile  quoted  its  reference  to  Boucher  incor¬ 
rectly.  Prosaic  expressions  are  found  in  his  most  careful  poems. 

His  ambitious  efforts  reveal,  a  fatal  constructive  impotence.  Hercdi- 
ade  remains  incomplete  and  nothing  can  be  more  lacking  than  the 
lyricism  in  Le  Cantique  de  Saint-Jean.  He  himself  presented  many 
poems  as  “studies  for  something  better,  as  one  cleans  the  nib  of  one’s 
pen.”  He  maintained  his  faithful  admirers  in  the  anticipation  of 
a  great  work  which  he  never  realized.  There  has  recently  been  pub¬ 
lished  a  volume  of  “occasional  verses”  in  which  a  mocking  sonnet 
for  the  inauguration  of  the  theatre  at  Valvins  and  a  precious  Verve 
d’eau: 

Ta  letvre  contre  le  cristal 
Gorgee  a  gorgee  y  compose 
Le  souvenir  pourpre  et  vital 
De  la  moins  ephemere  rose , 

do  not  compensate  for  the  silly  trifles — speeches,  toasts,  fans,  mirrors, 
etc. — of  what  Thibaudet  very  justly  calls  “a  genius  out  of  a  job.” 
This  “mask  of  sterility”  Mallarme  feared  after  Angoisse;  and,  at  the 
same  time,  he  knew  that,  in  the  rare  moments  when  his  genius  spoke,  he 
revealed,  to  quote  Valery,  “poetry  in  the  pure  state.”  He  kept  the 
right  to  affirm  that  this  failure- — due  to  the  complexity  of  its  object 
and  the  imperfection  of  the  language  it  underwent — had  no  trace  of  a 
vulgar  renunciation  of  the  absolute. 

Vanquished  by  all  the  powers  he  called  “Chance,”  he  took  this  defeat 
as  the  theme  of  his  last  work,  Un  coup  de  des  jamais  n’abolira  le  Hasard. 
Now  it  is  the  law  of  all  thought  that  it  “throws  dice.”  Here,  then,  is 
the  creator  struggling  with  the  waves.  He  throws  the  dice  “from  the 
depths  of  a  shipwreck”  perhaps  necessary  to  the  creative  act;  but  he 
dares  not  play  the  game  “as  a  hoary-headed  maniac”  and  succumbs. 
His  imagination — ever  lightened,  a  human  shadow,  a  veil,  finally  a 
feather — comes  to  rest  upon  the  cap  of  some  Hamlet,  “a  latent  lord 
who  cannot  become.”  In  the  presence  of  this  hero  “the  false  manor” 
which  presumed  to  impose  “a  boundary  upon  the  infinite”  fades,  but  a 
blackboard  arises,  a  fresh  field  of  battle  and  of  defeat  since,  in  spite  of 
all  its  subtleties,  Number  is  still  Chance.  The  pen,  the  symbol  of 
literary  effort,  then,  founders  like  the  boat  which  bore  the  living  effort. 
Chance  triumphs  and  will  triumph  eternally,  unless  there  be  room,  in 
the  far-off  heavens,  for  some  supreme  constellation,  some  victorious 
struggle.  For  thought  will  ever  renew  the  combat:  “All  thought 
throws  dice.” 

This  poem  presents  itself  in  an  unaccustomed  form.  Alreadv,  in 
Le  Mystere  dans  les  Lettves ,  IMallarme  had  employed  an  expressive 


SYMBOLISM 


127 

typogmphy  “to  mobilize  about  an  idea  the  diverse  gleams  of  the  mind, 
at  the  desired  distance,  by  sentences.”  In  the  Coup  de  des,  taking  the 
double  page  as  a  unit,  he  tried,  by  differences  of  type,  by  blanks,  by 
calculated  intervals,  to  lay  bare  “thought  with  retreats,  extensions, 
flights,  or  even  its  design,”  to  distinguish  the  motifs  “preponderant, 
secondary,  and  adjacent,”  to  compose  in  a  word,  “a  score  for  anyone 
wishing  to  read  aloud.” 

His  experiment  has  been  variously  appreciated.  Some  have  seen  in 
it  a  wager  of  pure  madness.  Paul  Valery,  to  whom  Mallarme  sub¬ 
mitted  the  proofs  of  what  he  designated  “an  act  of  insanity”  (but  who 
will  know  his  real  thought?),  was  most  deeply  impressed  by  it,  “as  if 
had  appeared  a  constellation  which  finally  meant  something.”  In  this 
poem  which  sums  up  Mallarme’s  thought  and  paints  the  drama  of  his 
life,  which  reconciles  his  double  technique,  musical  and  visual,  we, 
for  our  part,  salute  a  masterpiece,  the  poem  of  the  Idea,  already  in 
embryo  in  the  carnal  Apres-midi  d’un  Faune. 

Mallarme’s  influence  on  the  Symbolist  evolution  was  great.  It  was 
not  confined  to  his  work.  Even  those  who  would  gladly  have  ques¬ 
tioned  this  succumbed  to  the  conversational  charm  of  a  man  who,  ac¬ 
cording  to  Andre  Gide’s  description,  “thought  before  he  spoke.”  Nor 
has  one  the  right  to  reject  from  this  estimate  the  legend  which  sur¬ 
rounded  him.  For,  as  he  himself  wrote  concerning  Rimbaud,  “one 
must  never  neglect,  in  idea,  any  of  the  possibilities  which  fly  about 
a  figure.”  Among  the  poets  of  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
Mallarme  appeared  clad  with  a,  heroic  prestige.  He  deserved  this  hom¬ 
age  for  having  devoted  himself  exclusively  to  his  art  and  to  thought. 
If  it  be  necessary  to  distinguish,  among  his  works,  those — from  Fene- 
tres  to  V Apres-midi — which  are  universally  admired  and  those  which 
are  still  debated,  this  proves  above  all  how  active  his  influence  continues 
to  be.  Does  the  Coup  de  des,  nourished  by  Vigny,  by  Shakespeare  and 
hy  Wagner,  mark  the  farthest  confine  of  a  poetic  continent  beyond 
which  everything  is  disorder,  or  else  will  it  inspire  other  poems  still 
more  boldly  emancipatory  which  will  shed  light  upon  the  pages  of  his 
own  works  deemed  obscure?  For,  even  when  they  seem  to  offer  us  but 

Le  transparent  glacier  des  vols  qui  n’ont  pas  fui, 
no  one  can  claim  to  measure  the  scope  of  these  liberated  flights. 


6.  THE  SYMBOLIST  SCHOOL 

In  an  important  study  presented  as  a  preface  to  Premiers  Poemes, 
Gustave  Kahn  claims  to  have  been  the  inventor  of  free  verse.  Many 


128  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

discussions  have  arisen  around  this  assertion.  This  is  the  essence 
of  the  matter:  the  most  daring  innovators  had  until  then  rendered 
both  the  verse  and  the  stanza  more  flexible  without  definitely  break¬ 
ing  with  these  traditional  forms.  Kahn  was  among  the  first,  if  not  the 
first,  to  set  up  absolute  liberty  as  a  principle.  Imbued  with  musical 
influences,  he  essayed  to  give  the  verse  and  the  rhythmic  laisse  pro¬ 
portions  determined  by  the  movement  of  the  thought.  Such  an  enter¬ 
prise  rarely  attains  perfection  all  at  once.  Les  Palais  nomades  con¬ 
tains,  in  addition  to  the  prose  poems  distinctly  influenced  by  Baudelaire, 
a  great  many  experimental  verses,  destined  to  free  the  ear  from  the 
yoke  of  the  oratorical  alexandrin. 

Several  of  Les  Chansons  d’amant  also  show  their  age  a  little  cruelly. 
Doubtless  one  would  hardly  endorse  Gourmont’s  judgment  on  Domaine 
de  Fee,  “the  most  delightful  little  book  of  love-poems  given  us  since 
Fetes  galantes for  there  is  a  great  deal  of  nonsense  in  this  “divine 
sincerity”  and  Gustave  Kahn’s  sensibility,  his  longing  for  a  dream 
Orient,  goes  awkwardly  at  times  with  the  brutal  precision  to  which 
certain  poems  in  Le  Livre  damages  aspire. 

It  would  be  unjust  to  dwell  upon  the  failings  of  a  true  poet  in  search 
of  a  new  path — one  who,  in  the  domain  of  musical  poetry,  has  produced 
works  which  will  live.  He  has  revealed  the  secret  of  barbaric 
harmony : 

Maturite  de  ms  seins,  en  vous  penchant  vers  lui 
dans  le  songe  indistinct  de  feeries  vous  avez  lui 
comme  claire  robe  de  lune  en  opacite  de  nuit  .  .  . 

yet  unheard  in  our  literature.  He  has  given  it  elegies  of  long  ecstasy : 

J’attends  dans  I’heure  obscure  et  calme  .  .  . 

.  .  .  Chantonne  lentement  et  tres  bas  .-  .  .  mon  cceur  pleure  .  .  . 

The  form  most  indebted  to  him  is,  however,  the  poetic  lied.  While 
the  majority  of  his  contemporaries  were  haunted  by  Wagner,  he  re¬ 
membered  Schumann  and,  side  by  side  with  orchestrated  poems,  such 
as  File  a  ton  rouet  ...  he  has  written  these  very  tender,  artless, 
mysterious  songs : 

Des  chevaliers  qui  sont  partis  .  .  . 

Dans  des  reves  clos  j’ai  bati  mon  reve  .  .  . 

Filles  de  Bagdad  qui  partez  en  mer  .  .  . 

where  the  popular  form  veils  the  refinement  of  an  extreme  civilization. 

In  the  regular  verse  of  Cueille  d’avril,  Francis  Viele-Griffin  already 
revealed  more  or  less  completely  the  musical  facility  which  makes  the 


SYMBOLISM  129 

charm  of  Dea,  of  the  variations  on  a  theme  (La  mer )  and  of  his 
“euphonies”  obviously  inspired  by  Verlaine.  Heure  mystique  already 
proved  that  philosophical  attempts  were  less  suited  to  his  talent  than 
the  soft  harmonies  of  the  Carmen  perpettmm  or  the  stanzas  of  Triplici. 

Joies  is  Viele-Griffin’s  first  volume  as  a  writer  of  free  verse.  This 
flexible  form  harmonizes  moreover  with  the  general  tone  of  the  in¬ 
spiration  which  is  now  that  of  legends  with  refrains,  of  artless  rounds, 
now  that  of  an  intimate  poetry  enamoured  of  grace  or  of  sinuous 
melancholy. 

In  Les  Cygnes,  on  the  contrary,  too  many  poems  with  abstract  sub¬ 
titles  give  that  impression  of  loquacity  which  is  the  stumbling-block  of 
free  verse,  and  the  reader  quickly  turns  from  it  to  the  reveries  where 
the  phantom  of  Helen  passes  and  to  the  simple  songs  of  Fleurs  du 
chemin. 

La  Clarte  de  vie  is  probably  Viele-Griffin’s  most  finished  book.  It 
is  dedicated  to  “spring  in  Touraine”  and  sings,  in  the  Chansons  a 
l 'ombre,  of  life  in  the  Loire  country-side,  the  cycle  of  the  year  marked 
by  the  varying  work  in  the  fields  where 

La  vie  indulgente  et  complice 
Varie  d’un  geste  le  decor  .  .  . 

and  by  reading  and  meditation  during  a  winter  without  harshness. 
The  grace  here  becomes  at  times  a  trifle  garrulous.  It  usually  keeps 
an  idle  affectation  in  harmony  with  its  setting: 

Je  7i  ai  pas  peur  de  te  chanter,  Printemps,  j’ah  honte!  .  .  . 

Vois!  qui  va  s’eveillant 
La  Vie  au  hois  dormant  .  .  . 

Into  this  poem  of  mellow  nature  slip  delicate  human  interventions 
certainly  more  profound  than  the  strained  expressions  of  abstract 
ideas.  The  same  duality  is  remarked  in  the  form.  En  Arcadie  is  a 
series  of  antique  episodes  which  often  bring  the  poet  back  to  regular 
verse : 

Si  hien  qae,  dans  7 na  main  sans  cesse  appesantie, 

Je  sens  le  poids  des  jours  avec  le  poids  des  nuits 
Et  que  mon  pas,  jadis  alerte,  s’embarrasse 
De  I’echeveau  qui  fait  ma  marche  deja  lasse. 

In  the  same  way  La  P  artenza,  a  farewell  to  a  pleasant  land,  is 
entirely  written  in  octosyllabic  verses  grouped  in  four-line  stanzas, 
three  or  four  forming  a  song.  On  the  contrary  the  free  verse  and 
the  rhythmic  laisse  find  their  place  in  the  In  memoriams  (Laforgue, 
Verlaine,  Mallarme)  and  in  the  saints’  legends  of  Amour  Sucre,  among 


130  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

which  the  Sainte  Marguerite  de  Cortone,  entirely  in  dialogue,  reminds 
us  that  Viele-Griffin  wrote  also  for  the  stage.  The  production  of 
Phocas  le  jardinier  has  moreover  shown  that  the  literary  qualities  of 
such  a  drama  were  ill-suited  to  scenic  violence. 

Much  more  than  in  the  noble,  cold  Lumiere  de  Grece,  much  more 
than  in  the  school  works  which  occasionally  evoke  the  memory  of 
Regnier  or  of  Verhaeren,  we  must  seek  Viele-Griffin’s  orginal  contribu¬ 
tion  in  his  spontaneous  songs  and  in  narrative  poems  like  La 
Chevauchee  d’Yeldis  and  Wieland  le  forgeron.  Doubtless  they  reveal 
the  Romantic  element  residing  in  Symbolism  with,  if  one  likes,  the 
Wagner  of  the  Sword  as  mediator.  At  least  the  necessity  for  clear 
story-telling  contains  within  poetic  limits  the  generous  but  quickly 
oratorical  appeals. 

Among  all  the  poets  of  his  generation,  Henri  de  Regnier  is  the  one 
who  most  rapidly  and  naturally  attained  official  glory — the  by  no 
means  contemptible  recompense  of  a  noble  poet  for  whom  his  art  was 
the  loyal  development  of  a  personality.  However  lively  may  have 
been  his  affection  for  Mallarme  and  his  sympathy  for  the  Symbolist 
brigade,  he  never  subordinated  to  them  the  expression  of  a  somewhat 
haughty  sensibility,  modern  by  culture,  yet  willingly  turned  towards 
every  idealized  past.  His  first  volumes,  Les  Lendemains  and  Apaise- 
ment,  contained  memories  of  Heredia  ( Email  and  Portrait )  and  of 
Verlaine  ( Terrasse )  with  Baudelairianisms  like  this  echo  from  Le 
Bale  on: 

Abattement  des  soirs  dans  les  chambres  fermees 

Qu’illumine  I’eclair  rougeoyant  des  charbons. 

(Soirs.) 

At  the  same  time,  however,  appeared  the  original  Regnier  who,  in 
Residence  royale,  described: 

Les  jardins  reguliers  aux  belles  ordonnances  .  .  .  , 
who  sought  the  formal  fullness  of  caesural  verses: 

De  dormir  sur  son  cceur  et  de  baiser  ses  levres  .  .  . 

Ils  etaient  le  present,  et  j’etais  le  passe  .  .  .  , 

who  reared  to  Venus  a  neo-classical  temple,  for 

Les  deesses  veillent  encore  aux  peristyles, 

as  he  said  in  those  Sites  the  twenty-five  sonnets  of  which  aim  at  paint¬ 
ing  scenes  rather  than  at  rendering  impressions. 

In  the  Episodes  this  progression  towards  ancient  themes  continues 


SYMBOLISM  131 

through  more  contemporary  researches  where  he  paraphrases  Mal- 
larme  and  Viele-Griffin ;  but  the  Sonnets  (1888—1890)  bring  out 
Regnier’s  personal  manner.  Here  nothing  is  lacking  and  he  com¬ 
poses  his  favourite  landscape  of  roses,  of  cypresses,  of  “nonchalant 
summers,”  of  “taciturn”  things.  Antiquity,  a  humanist’s  antiquity, 
holds  first  place.  He  still  yields  at  times  to  the  temptation  of  em¬ 
ploying  it  for  worldly  allegories.  Usually  he  lends  it  a  fluid  majesty: 

Pour ,  au  nom  de  la  cendre  et  du  laiurier  amer. 

Dire,  du  haut  du  'porcine  a  ceux  qu’en  tente  Vombre, 

Si  le  masque  d’or  pale  a  des  levres  de  chair; 

or  else  the  evocative  familiarity  of  this  picture 

Un  satyr  e  d  mi-corps  sort  ant  de  la  foret 
Dont  le  feuillage  enguirlanda  ses  torses  comes 
Sonne  en  sa  conque  a  Vaube  claire  qui  parait. 

Poemes  anciens  et  romanesques  brought  his  first  essays  in  free 
verse  and  Tel  qu’un  songe  attested  his  mastery  of  the  two  instruments 
Sometimes  it  pleased  him  to  combine  them,  as  in  La  Gardienne.  This 
diversity  was  to  be  found  again  later  in  Les  Jeuec  rustiques  et  divins — 
happy  title ! — where  he  passed  from  grave  invocation  ( Sagesse  de 
V Amour)  and  from  the  thrilling  poem  of  the  creation,  Le  Vase, 
steeped  in  Mallarmean  atmosphere,  to  the  subtle  music  of  the 
Odelettes: 


Un  petit  roseau  m’a  sufjv 
Pour  faire  fremir  Vherbe  haute 
Et  tout  le  pre 
Et  les  deux  saules 
Et  le  ruisseau  qui  chant e  aussi; 

Un  petit  roseau  m’a  suffi 
A  faire  chanter  la  foret. 

Les  Medailles  d’argile  is  the  book  most  generally  relished  by  Henri 
de  Regnier’s  admirers.  It  is  indeed  the  most  representative.  It  re¬ 
veals  the  defects  of  a  sustained  eloquence,  the  abuse  of  the  “alternate 
gestures”  and  of  the  instinctively  mannered  verses  (the  two  words  are 
not  contradictory)  which  have  encouraged  parody: 

Si  le  pavage  est  rouge  et  si  le  mur  est  blanc 

(Reveil.) 

Tu  recoltes  I’Ete  et  tu  cueilles  V Automne 

(Belle  annee.) 

A  d’ indivisibles  fleurs  que  nous  ne  verrons  pas 

(Bouquet  noir.) 


132  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Likewise,  if  Les  Passants  du  passe  is  the  work  of  an  Heredia  less 
artificially  marmorean  ( Portrait  double),  these  sonnets  give,  in  the 
long  run,  a  shade  of  coldness  to  the  reserve  which  impels  Regnier  to 
prefer  general  evocation  to  the  characterized  personage,  to  paint  the 
tramp,  the  minion,  the  courtier.  This  is  a  classical  tendency,  identical 
with  that  which  incites  him  to  reserve  free  verse  for  the  introductions, 
the  commentaries,  the  personal  or  more  specially  lyrical  poems — 
in  short,  to  accord  it  precisely  the  role  assigned  it  by  Mallarme. 
In  this  collection,  dedicated  to  Andre  Chenier,  the  most  perfect 
successes  are  classical  poems  some  of  which  count  among  their 
author’s  best:  works  of  an  Alexandrian  refinement  ( L’Arc ,  Echo), 
firm,  highly  characterized  songs  ( Lever  de  lune,  Le  Jar  din  mouille), 
reveries  of  a  lordly  gravity  melted  a  moment  ( Sur  la  greve),  sonnets 
perfumed  with  Hellenism  like  Chrysilla  and  Bilitis  in  which  Regnier 
has  happily  evoked  one  of  the  fatherlands  of  his  art: 

Et  moi,  que  visita  la  Muse  aux  ailes  d’or, 

Je  resterai  pareille  a  Vamphore  enbaumee 
Ou,  captif  aux  parois  quelle  respire  encor. 

Fibre  et  rode  le  vol  d’une  abeille  enfermee. 

La  Cite  des  eaux  describes  another  of  them,  more  complex  because  less 
exclusively  artistic,  the  Versailles  of 

La  perspective  avec  I’allee  et  Vescalier, 

Et  le  rond-point,  et  le  parterre,  et  l’ attitude 
De  I’if  pyramidal  aupres  du  buis  taille ; 

La  grandeur  taciturne  et  la  paix  monotone 
De  ce  melaincolique  et  supreme  sejour, 

Et  ce  parfum  du  soir  et  cette  odeur  d’ automne 
Qui  s’exhalent  de  V ombre  avec  la  fin  du  jour. 

In  this  aristocratically  superannuated  setting  he  gives  full  vein  to 
his  love  of  reflections,  inverted  images,  dualities  and  parallelisms. 
L’Odeur,  Le  Socle,  and  Le  Bouquet  are  probably  more  sure  to  live  than 
the  eloquent  Marsyas  in  which  Regnier  pays  his  debt  to  Mallarme; 
but  the  novelty  of  this  volume  is  that  thenceforth  (for  it  will  continue 
in  La  Sandale  ailee )  the  poet  consents  to  let  himself  be  seen  in  his 
work.  Reacting  perhaps  against  the  objective  novelist  he  becomes 
elsewhere,  he  alternates,  with  those  antique  inscriptions  which  will  al¬ 
ways  be  so  dear  to  him  (see  L’ Automne) ,  beautiful  poems  of  passionate 
melancholy  like  La  Lune  jaune.  La  Colline  or  Le  Reproche;  but  never 
does  he  slip  into  romantic  confessions,  and  it  is  in  the  lyric  poet’s 
classical  attitude  that  he  wishes  to  present  himself  to  posterity. 


SYMBOLISM  133 

If  Henri  de  Regnier’s  example  proves  what  almost  Parnassian  re¬ 
serve  could  survive  the  Symbolist  revolution,  Francis  Jammes  shows 
what  broken  barriers  henceforth  permitted  the  poet  to  assign  as  ob¬ 
jects  for  his  art  the  least  romantic  incidents  of  his  daily  existence. 
The  Intimists  had  hitherto  chosen,  to  depict  them,  the  more  repre¬ 
sentative  episodes  of  their  life.  Baudelaire  magnified  his  encounter 
with  a  passer-by  because  this  passer-by  was  Love.  Jammes  says  a 
visitor  entered  his  house  asking  him: 

Comment  allez-vous,  Monsieur  Jammes? 

and  takes  good  care  to  add  nothing.  For  “it  is  an  error,  when  writing 
a  story,  to  insist  that  the  plot  shall  present  that  vague,  artificial  tire¬ 
some  thing  called  interest.”  Jammes  tells  about  Jammes  abundantly. 
Without  tiring,  he  shows  La  Naissance  du  poete,  Un  jour  (of  the  poet’s 
life),  Le  Podte  et  sa  Femme,  La  Mort  du  poete,  Le  Poete  rustique,  so 
that  his  supreme  skill  is  probably  having  rendered  impossible  every 
criticism  which,  bearing  upon  his  work,  would  seem  to  cast  aspersions 
upon  the  Christian  and  family  virtues  of  which  he  offers  and  celebrates 
so  meritorious  a  model. 

Jammes  would  himself  distinguish  several  periods  in  his  evolution. 
He  has  insisted  upon  his  “return  to  Catholicism.”  His  reader  will  be 
less  rigorous  and  will  see  him  in  the  attitude  of  his  preface  to  the 
volume  De  VAngelus  de  Vaube  a  VAngelus  du  soir:  “O  Lord,  You 
have  called  me  among  men.  Here  I  am.  I  suffer  and  I  love.  I  have 
spoken  with  the  voice  You  gave  me  ...  I  will  go  where  You  wish, 
when  You  wish” — a  solemn  posture  tempered  by  this  observation 
from  Le  Poete  rustique:  “Rightly  or  wrongly,  he  thinks  the 
Master  smiles  upon  him  sometimes  with  that  indulgence  one  has  for 
inopportune  friends.”  The  fine  poems  in  En  Dieu  and  L’Eglise 
habillee  de  feuilles  attest  the  sincerity  of  this  Franciscan  faith  now 
grave,  now  familiar. 

It  derives  indeed  its  dual  inspiration  less  from  a  mystically  elated 
will  than  from  a  profound  sentiment  of  nature.  If  he  has  occasionally, 
apropos  of  familiar  memories,  evoked  the  longing  for  extended 
voyages  and  distant  lands,  Jammes  has,  in  the  country-side  of 
Orthez,  found  inexhaustible  sources  of  poetic  inspiration.  He  has 
devoted  to  its  description  poems  which  rank  among  the  most  finished 
he  has  written  ( Dans  la  grange,  Les  Villages  and  several  of  his 
Georgiques  chretiennes).  He  has  above  all  associated  this  nature 
with  his  tenderest  sentiments : 


134  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Tu  aurais  I’ombre  des  noisetiers  sur  ton  oreille, 
puis  nous  melerions  nos  bouches,  cessant  de  rire, 
pour  dire  notre  amour  que  Von  ne  peut  pas  dire ; 
et  je  trouverais,  sur  le  rouge  de  tes  levres, 

le  gout  des  raisins  blonds,  des  roses  rouges  et  des  guepes  .  .  . 

( Angelus .) 

He  has  shown  by  what  paths  of  sensation  and  of  thought  nature  led 
him  back  from  human  to  divine  love: 

Une  noix  d’Amerique  est  tornbee  sur  Vallee. 

Elle  annonce  Vautomne  et  son  odeur  etrange 
substitue  a  Vamour  doucement  desole 
V amour  de  Dieu  vivant  aux  tenebres  des  branches 

( Clairieres  dans  le  Ciel.) 

If  simplicity  is  an  ornament,  some  of  the  poems  are  too  ornate. 
Pieces  like  Ecoute  dans  le  jardin  .  .  .  leave  the  impression  he  has 
written  down  everything  that  came  into  his  head.  He  is  not  un¬ 
aware,  even  days  when  he  fails,  what  effect  these  simple  notations  can 
produce  upon  the  imagination: 

Mais  si  tu  etais  en  chemise  aupres 
des  tisons  tous  noirs,  je  pense 
que  la,  toute  seule,  tu  serais 
blanche,  blanche,  blanche,  blanche  .  .  . 

(Angelus.) 

For  he  knows  the  danger  of  silliness.  Through  contact  with  animals 
and  with  his  friend  the  hare  Patte-U see,  he  has  rejuvenated  the  mis¬ 
chievous  spirit  of  old  La  Fontaine. 

He  is  equally  preserved  from  banality  by  a  sentimental  imagination 
where  mingle  memories  of  Rousseau  and  Bernardin  de  Saint-Pierre, 
where  admiration  for  Eugenie  de  Guerin  does  not  exclude  tenderness 
for  Mme.  de  Warens.  He  owes  it  the  grace  of  his  three  heroines, 
Clara  d’Ellebeuse,  Almai'de  d’Etremont  and  Pomme  d’Anis.  “The 
first,  beneath  heavy  golden  tresses,  drooped  a  brow  charged  with 
storm  and  with  blue  sky.  The  second,  under  her  mourning  curls, 
whipped  up  her  steed,  and  the  perfect  bow  of  her  face  darted  at  the 
same  time  voluptuousness,  bitterness  and  remorse.  Finally,  Pomme 
d’Anis,  her  heart  heavy  with  love,  like  a  rose  drenched  with  rain, 
let  her  donkey  amble,  and  the  grace  of  one  of  her  lifted  knees  modestly 
hid  the  other’s  embarrassment.”  Poetic  preciousness  and  love  of 
nature  prevent  so  perilously  edifying  a  story  as  M.  le  Cure  d’Ozeron 
from  becoming  tedious.  For  Jammes  remains  a  poet  quite  as  much 


SYMBOLISM  135 

when  it  pleases  him  to  refine  on  his  simplicity  as  when  he  expresses  it 
in  its  original  purity. 

Constantly,  and  even  in  the  passages  where  his  didacticism  is  not 
sensibly  superior  to  that  of  the  apothecaries  whom  this  gentle  poet 
so  heartily  detests,  he  soars  again  with  a  wide  sweep  and  recovers  the 
accent  of  his  dedication  “to>  Mary  of  Nazareth,  mother  of  God,”  which 
precedes  Ma  file  Bernadette :  “You  see  I  no  longer  know  clearly 
what  I  write,  but  my  thought  attaches  itself  to  You  like  this  flowering 
creeper,  and  to  You  I  dedicate  this  poor  work,  like  a  servant  her  pot 
of  mignonette  .  .  .  and  it  trembles  in  my  uplifted  hands.” 

To  estimate  the  importance  of  the  Symbolist  movement,  one  should 
not  restrict  oneself  to  a  few  celebrated  names.  The  majority  of  the 
writers  of  note  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century  passed 
through  the  Symbolist  apprenticeship;  and  it  would  be  unjust  to  for¬ 
get  the  numerous  poets  who  surrounded  the  masters.  Certain  of 
them  disappeared  too  soon  to  give  their  full  measure,  like  that  emphatic, 
sincere  Emmanuel  Signoret  or  Ephraim  Mikhael  who,  at  twenty,  could 
draw  a  harmony  from  secular  legends  ( L’Etrangere )  as  well  as 
from  modern  life  (La  Dame  en  deuil).  Brothers  to  these  are  the 
poets  limited  in  their  production:  Pierre  Quillard  who  dedicated  to 
Mikhael’s  memory  his  Lyre  heroique  et  dolente,  poems  of  a  rich  culture 
- — that  of  the  translator  of  the  Mimes  d’Herondas;  Stuart  Merrill,  a 
refined  artist  who  was  to  rise  to  poignant  hymns  of  sadness.  Con¬ 
trasting  with  these  quiet  poets  are  two  effervescents :  Paul-Napoleon 
Roinard,  eager  for  great  themes,  from  the  social  satire  of  Nos  Plaies 
to  the  Donnenr  d’illusions,  “a  synthesis  of  love,  of  all  loves” ;  Saint- 
Pol-Roux,  the  fertile  inventor  of  metaphors  whose  work  is  as  motley 
as  this  title,  De  la  colombe  an  corbeau  par  le  paon,  who  attempted, 
in  his  Dame  a  la  faulx,  “an  inner  tragedy,  exteriorized  at  times  in 
broad,  popular  frescoes,”  an  art  aiming  at  “ideo-realization”  and,  in 
order  to  conform  to  scenic  exigencies,  at  “translating  a  concave  theme 
convexly.” 

Laurent  Tailhade,  a  rhetorician  from  Le  Parnasse,  coexisted  for 
some  time  with  Symbolism  before  returning  to  that  journalism  which 
journalists  style  Aristophanic  and  for  which  literature  has  no  very 
definite  name.  Adolphe  Rette,  too,  took  part  in  this  movement,  de¬ 
rived  from  it  a  volume  of  memories  and  related  his  evolution  Du 
Diable  a  Dieu.  Ernest  Raynaud  imitated  Rimbaud,  wrote  on  his 
own  account  somewhat  coldly  noble  verses  and  constituted  himself 
historian  of  La  Bataille  symboliste.  Jean  Lorrain  preceded  his 
volumes  of  hallucinated  stories  and  haunted  novels  of  which  M.  de 


136  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Phocas  is  the  type,  with  very  artificial  verses  where  the  influence 
of  the  Goncourts  encounters  that  of  Gustave  Moreau.  A. -Ferdinand 
Herold,  translator  of  TEschylus,  Euripides  and  Kalidasa,  has  often 
sought  repose  from  his  scholarly  undertakings  in  firm  sonnets  or  in 
liquid  songs.  Even  Camille  Mauclair,  a  fertile  polygraph,  sought  to 
reconcile  Schumann  with  Symbolism  in  his  Sonatines  d’antomne  before 
showing  that  nothing  human  is  totally  foreign  to  his  multifarious 
criticism. 


7.  THE  POETS  OF  THE  NORTH 

Symbolism,  which  liberated  dream,  was  particularly  calculated  to 
seduce  the  northern  imagination.  It  is  then  quite  natural  that 
several  of  the  writers  it  can  claim  as  its  own  were  born  in  Flanders 
or  in  Belgium.  A  study  of  Symbolism  would  be  incomplete  did  it 
not  mention  the  name  of  Gregoire  Le  Roy,  bard  of  the  sad  village  anjd 
of  the  melancholy  human  heart.  The  false  naivete  of  Max  Elskamp 
is  not  without  charm  and  Maeterlinck  placed  very  high  the  melodious 
Chanson  d’Eve  by  Charles  Van  Lerberghe.  Albert  Mockel,  founder  of 
that  important  review  La  Wallonie,  was  the  poet  of  Chant ef  able  un  peu 
naive,  as  well  as  being  one  of  the  best  Symbolist  critics.  Andre 
Fontainas,  a  disciple  of  Mallarme  and  a  penetrating  novelist,  published 
mannered  poems  before  devoting  himself  to  art  criticism  and  to  the 
translation  of  Keats,  De  Quincey,  Meredith  and  Shelley.  Rene  Ghil’s 
motley  work  was  read,  at  least  through  curiosity,  for  the  theory  of  a 
scientific  poetry  and  of  verbal  instrumentation  which  he  had  defined  in 
his  Traite  du  Verhe.  Among  all  these  seekers  stand  out  three  poets, 
two  of  whom  count  among  the  most  celebrated  of  their  day. 

Georges  Rodenbach’s  success  was  formerly  very  considerable.  He 
identified  his  work  with  a  city  and  created  a  fashion  for  Bruges  la 
Morte  with  its  atmosphere  of  grey,  gentle  melancholy.  It  was  a 
novelty  unrevolutionary  enough  to.  conquer  immediately  a  public  in 
love  with  poetic  mist ;  but  its  lack  of  depth  compromised  the  duration 
of  its  influence.  Already  Verhaeren,  though  he  praised  this  poetry, 
pointed  out  its  weakness :  “Precise,  spruce,  Sunday  mysticism,”  said 
he,  “communion-bench  mysticism  which,  hands  joined,  goes  to  take 
the  Host,  not  barefooted,  walking  on  briars  and  thorns,  but  treading 
nice,  clean  stones  with  white,  piously  muffled  sandals.”  This  super¬ 
ficial  character  of  Rodenbach’s  thought  becomes  disagreeably  evident 
when  he  writes  in  prose.  Certain  reflections  in  Bruges  la  Morte  are 
disappointingly  commonplace:  “The  movements  of  the  soul  have  also 
their  acquired  speed  .  .  .  Happiness,  like  health,  is  enjoyed  only  by 


SYMBOLISM  137 

contrast ;  and  love,  too,  is  the  intermittence  of  itself  .  .  .  love  breaks 
are  like  little  deaths,  having  also  their  partings  without  farewells.” 

Too  easily  inclined  to  take  a  finical  improvisation  for  a  profound  and 
original  thought,  Rodenbach  is  a  poet  only  when  he  limits  himself  to 
noting  the  sensation  of  a  moment,  without  pretending  to  generalize 
it.  His  personal  art  is  the  minute  transcription  of  the  sensation  of 
a  being  refined  by  meditation  and  suffering.  Really  to  enjoy  the 
charm  of  Les  Vies  encloses  and  Le  Royaume  du  silence,  one  must 
ruthlessly  reject  all  the  pretty  complimentary  verses  in  order  to  evoke, 
in  a  propitious  shade,  the  peaceful  images  of  Le  Beguinage  flamand  or 
this  cloud  procession  in  the  mirror  of  a  passive  soul: 

Sur  le  del  immuable  ont  flotte  des  nauges, 

Tissus  a  la  derive  et  parure  changeante ; 

O  nuages,  partis  pour  de  lointains  voyages, 

Entrant  soudain  dans  notre  ame  qui  s’en  argente; 

Et  je  suis,  dans  mon  ame  ou,  calmes,  ils  s’en  vont, 

Les  nuages  qui  se  defont  et  se  refont  .  .  . 

Like  Rodenbach’s,  Albert  Samain’s  life  was  short;  but,  whereas 
Rodenbach  appears  to  have  described  himself  entirely  in  his  books, 
Samain  seems  not  to  have  had  time  to  express  the  whole  of  his  complex 
personality.  Its  analysis,  indeed,  has  by  no  means  been  exhausted 
when  we  have  quoted  the  celebrated  verse : 

Mon  ame  est  une  infante  en  robe  de  parade  .  .  . 
even  when  corrected  by  this  other  definition: 

Mon  ame  est  un  velours  douloureux  que  tout  froisse  .  .  . 

He  has  sometimes  been  defined  as  a  Symbolist  classic.  It  is  true 
that  an  occasional  noted  sonnet  ( Lentement ,  doucement  .  .  .)  is,  as  it 
were,  a  happy  mise  aw  point  of  the  -poetry  of  his  time  to  which  he  owed, 
in  other  ways,  more  artificial  inspiration  ( Soir  d’Empire,  Vision ).  It 
is  in  his  technique  that  he  is  least  original.  He  recalls  Hugo: 

Une  main  de  lumiere  a  pris  ma  main  dans  Vombre  .  .  . 

Et  par  de  longs  fils  d’or  nos  cceurs  lies  aux  choses. 

His  Nocturne  provincial  is  a  pastiche  of  Verlaine  heightened  with  some 
reminders  of  Baudelaire.  The  sonnet: 

Nos  sens,  nos  sens  divins,  sont  de  beaux  enfants  nus 

dissolves  a  Parnassian  theme  in  sweet  Symbolist  music.  The  artist 
he  is  capable  of  being  permits  himself  nonchalant  reposes.  Witness  the 
four  rhyming  adjectives  in  ives  in  Heure  d’ete,  or  these  verses: 


138  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Le  noir  des  jardins  s’ouvre  aux  my s  teres  seulets  .  .  . 

De  beaux  soirs  feminins  ou  le  cceur  se  dorlote  .  .  . 

where  we  cannot  say  whether  the  air  of  familiarity  is  affectation  or 
laziness.  There  are  both  in  the  abuse  of  douceur  and  or,  in  the  repeti¬ 
tion  of  certain  images : 

Et  que  mon  ame,  ou  vit  le  gout  secret  des  fleurs 

Soit  comme  un  lys  fidele  et  pale  a  ta  ceinture  .  .  . 

( Au  Jar  din  de  ITnfante.) 

Mon  ame,  comme  un  lys,  passee  d  ta  ceinture 

( Chariot  d’Or.)' 

The  construction  of  his  sentences  borders  on  the  monotonous.  In 
two  sonnets  ( Versailles ,  III  and  IV)  will  be  noted:  C’est  ici  que  la 
reine  .  .  .  c’est  cet  air  vieille  France  ici  .  .  .  mais  ce  qui  prend  mon 
cceur  .  .  .  c’est  ce  Grand  Trianon.  Cette  ombre  .  .  .  helas!  c’est 
le  genie  en  deuil.  .  .  .  Et  c’est  ce  qui  vows  dome.  .  .  . 

Sterile  flaw-picking,  it  will  be  said,  which  does  not  prevent  Samain’s 
being  an  inspired  elegiac ;  but  if  his  ambition  was  higher,  if  he  dreamed 
of  being  a  great  poet,  it  was  not  useless  to  show  why  death  surprised 
him  before  he  had  been  able  to  free  himself  completely.  Now  he  was 
working  to  this  end.  He  was  not  satisfied  to  cultivate  the  vein  of 
modern  sensibility  which  had  won  him  his  first  success.  He  turned  to 
the  past,  to  the  graceful  engravings  of  gallant  subjects  and  of 
embarquements  pour  Cythere  ( Watteau ,  L’Agreable  Lepon).  He  re¬ 
discovered  that  sentimental  “sliding”  which,  through  Ossian  and  Lamar¬ 
tine  ( En  printemps),  has  led  souls  from  dryness  to  lyricism.  He 
drew  from  pagan  antiquity  matter  for  broad  frescoes  ( La  Chimere, 
Les  Sirenes,  Cleopdtre )  and  for  delicate  idylls  ( Clydie  and  Neere  in  the 
Chariot  d’Or,  Xanthis  and  Pannyre  in  Aux  flancs  du  vase).  He  bor¬ 
rowed  from  it  the  subject  of  Polypheme  one  scene  of  which  brings  in 
irrelevantly  Gobaud  and  Yniold  but  where  the  voices  of  nature  and 
of  passion  speak  in  noble  accents.  This  diversity  of  inspiration  is 
visible  in  the  Contes  among  which  must  be  unreservedly  admired  the 
ironical  Xanthis  and  the  melancholic  Hyalis,  striking  proofs  of  a 
capacity  for  renovating  an  old  theme  which  authorizes  us  to  believe 
that  Samain  had  not  given  his  full  measure. 

At  least  he  unquestionably  remains  one  of  the  great  elegiac  poets 
of  France,  we  should  perhaps  say  the  great  French  elegiac,  seeing  that 
no  other,  from  Ronsard  to  Chenier,  and  from  Baudelaire  to  Verlaine, 
possessed  this  fluidity,  this  abandonment  to  tender  revery  whereby 
certain  of  Albert  Samain’s  poems  rise  naturally  from  lovers’  hearts  to 
their  lips : 


SYMBOLISM 


139 


Devant  la  mer,  un  soir,  un  beau  soir  d’ltalie  .  .  . 

Le  del  suave  etait  jonche  de  pales  roses  .  .  . 

L’heure  comme  nous  reve  accoudee  aux  remparts.  .  .  . 

The  first  words  of  such  poems  are  like  a  long  sweep  of  the  bow,  liber¬ 
ating  the  captive  music. 

He  does  not  seek  to  explain  the  mystery  of  his  evocations.  Perhaps 
he  communicates  their  sentiment  to  us  so  well  only  because  he  accepted 
it  without  discussion.  Twelve  syllables  suffice  him  to  fix  forever  the 
most  subtly  fugitive  impressions : 

L’infini  de  douceur  qu’omt  les  choses  brisees  .  .  . 

0  robes  qui  passez,  nonchalantes,  dans  I’ame  .  .  . 

C’est  un  soir  tendre  comme  un  visage  de  femme  .  .  . 

Oh!  ce  nom  oil  la  fleur  de  sa  chair  est  restee  .  .  . 

Et  c  etait  comme  une  musique  qui  se  fame.  .  .  . 

Admirable  verses  of  complex  simplicity — verses  which  are  not  the 
whole  of  Samain’s  poetry  but  which  mark,  however,  its  most  perfect 
success. 

Because  it  excludes  halftones,  the  personality  of  Emile  Verhaeren 
is  none  the  less  rich  in  vigorous  contrasts.  With  Les  Flamandes 
(1883)  he  asserted  a  will  for  aggressive  realism: 

Ces  hommes  de  labour  que  Greuze  affadissait  .  .  . 

Les  void  noirs,  grossiers,  bestiaux — ils  sont  tels. 

{Les  Paysans .) 

Here  he  already  manifested  his  personal  gifts :  a  precise  vision 
daunted  by  the  brutality  of  no  detail,  no  comparison ;  and,  at  the  same 
time,  distortion  of  material  objects  into  hallucinated  images.  A  first 
lull  was  visible  in  Les  Moines  (1886)  where  the  poet  clothed  childish 
remembrances  in  a  garb  sometimes  Parnassian,  yet  original  through  the 
gigantic  character  of  the  images  (see  Rentree  des  moines,  or  Soir  re- 
ligieiuv).  Verhaeren  was  to  remain  all  his  life  haunted  by  this  monas¬ 
tic  ideal  of  a  violent,  stormy  peace : 

Je  reve  une  existence  en  un  cloitre  de  fer, 

Brulee  au  jeune  et  seche  et  rupee  aux  cilices, 

Oii  Von  abolirait  en  de  muets  supplices. 

Par  seule  ardeur  de  Vame,  enfin,  toute  la  chair 

(  Vers  le  cloitre .) 

His  drama,  Le  Cloitre,  depicts  the  frantic  struggle  between  the  human 
soul  and  the  repose  which  is  supposed  to  be  bestowed  upon  it  with  the 
white  mantle.  It  is  easy  to  see  what  trace  of  romanticism  remains  in 


140  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  two  states  of  mind.  Verhaeren  will  never  disavow  this  warring 
antinomy,  even  when  he  has  contributed  by  his  panting  form  to  Sym¬ 
bolist  emancipation,  even  when  his  revolt  has  found  the  assurance  of 
a  faith  in  human  progress. 

Romanticism  and  realism  give  themselves  free  rein  in  the  celebrated 
trilogy,  Les  Soirs,  Les  Debacles,  Les  Flambeaux  noirs,  followed  by 
those  volumes  with  visionary  titles :  Les  Apparus  dans  mes  chemins, 
Les  Campagnes  hallucinees,  Les  Villes  tentaculaires.  Romanticism  ex¬ 
asperated  itself  in  the  furious  flagellations  of  the  Dialogue  or  of  La 
Couronne : 

Et,  plus  intimement  encore,  mes  anciens  rales 

D’amour  vers  des  ventres  mufles  de  toison  d’ or 

Et  mes  vices  d’esprit  pour  les  ardeurs  claustrales  .  .  . 

Et,  plus  au  fond,  le  rut  meme  de  ma  torture. 

(La  Couronne.') 

He  is  also  “the  visionary  of  the  Flemish  countrysides.”  1  Even  when 
he  paints  a  genre  picture,  in  the  manner  of  the  patient  artists  of  his 
country,  a  powerful  suggestion  doubles  its  interest  (Le  Moulin,  Les 
Horloges) .  Under  his  fiery  glance  nature  assumes  nightmare  aspects. 
Here  are  the  oaks  : 

L’hiver,  les  chenes  lourds  et  vieux,  les  chenes  tors, 

Geignant  sous  la  tempete  et  projetant  leurs  brandies 
Comme  de  grands  bras  qui  veulent  fuir  leur  corps, 

Mais  que  tragiquement  la  chair  retient  aux  branches  .  .  . 

and  here  is  the  wind,  “the  savage  November  wind”: 

L’avez-vous  rencontre,  le  vent, 

Au  carrefour  des  trois  cents  routes ? 

L’avez-vous  rencontre,  le  vent, 

Le  vent  des  peurs  et  des  deroutes, 

L’avez-vous  vu,  cette  nuit-ld, 

Quand  il  jeta  la  lune  a  bas  .  .  .  ? 

When  a  human  personage  traverses  these  evocations,  it  is  borne 
along  in  the  same  savage  movement.  Thus  the  weird  story  of  Le 
Sonneur,  thus  the  monotonous,  threatening  drone  of  Les  Mendiants, 
thus  the  epic  procession  (Le  Depart )  of  the  men  and  the  beasts  march¬ 
ing  from  the  hallucinated  country-side  to  the  tentacled  city — the  city 
whose  soul  Verhaeren  has  so  fiercely  materialized,  with  the  ages  weigh¬ 
ing  it  down,  whose  frantic  life  he  has  rendered  palpable  (Les  U sines.  La 

i  The  expression  is  due  to  Leon  Bazalgette,  introducer  to  the  French  public  of 
Walt  Whitman  whose  Leaves  of  Grass  have  influenced  our  contemporary  social 
poetry. 


SYMBOLISM  141 

Bourse )  and  whose  prodigious  contradictions  he  has  grandiosely  ex¬ 
alted. 

This  mad  inspiration  cracks  the  moulds  of  traditional  poetry.  Ver- 
haeren’s  work  would  suffice  to  justify  the  necessity  of  free  verse.  Lib¬ 
erty  is  his  sole  demand — liberty  in  the  rhythm  as  well  as  in  the  diction 
— no  other  form  than  that  which  will  render  his  flashing  vision  more  in¬ 
tensely.  The  force  of  the  imagination  imposes  a  rigorous  unity  upon 
these  uneven  stanzas,  broken  by  abrupt  recoils,  heavy  with  haunt¬ 
ing  repetitions,  which  seem  less  to  describe  a  landscape  than  to  carry  it 
completely  away  in  this  whirl  of  an  impetuous  torrent.  Verhaeren 
vies  with  words  the  unleashed  wind  ( Le  Vent)  and  the  swarming  Arne  de 
la  ville. 

His  powerful  imagination  and  his  verbal  wealth  were  equally  adapted 
to  the  two  inspirations ;  but  he  himself  discovered  something  too  pas¬ 
sive  in  his  exclusive  realism.  Les  Visages  de  la  vie  and  Les  Vignes  de 
ma  muraille  mark  a  reaction.  The  poet  analyses  himself  more  coldly : 

Et  tout  a  coup  je  m’apparais  celui 

Qui  s’est,  hors  de  soi-meme,  enfui 

Vers  le  sauvage  appel  des  forces  unanimes. 

(La  Foule.) 

In  the  crowd,  in  the  cities,  in  the  spectacle  of  the  sea,  in  action,  he 
calms  his  youthful  madness.  He  discerns  “Tabors”  and  “Canaans.” 
He  discovers  the  grandeur  of  goodness.  In  the  breath  of  the  wind  he 
sees  “the  saints,  the  dead  and  the  trees”  become  as  one.  He  invites 
men  to  lean  out  of  their  windows 

Pour  voir  enfin,  dans  le  fond  de  la  nuit, 

Ce  qui,  depuis  mille  et  mille  ans, 

S’efforce  a  naitre. 

(. L’Eternelle  Lueur.) 

It  is  a  period  of  appeasement.  It  prolongs  the  first  series  of  those 
Heures  ( Les  Heures  claires,  1896;  Les  Heures  d  apres-midi,  1905;  Les 
Heures  du  soir,  1911)  which  mark  three  quiet  wayside  shrines  in  this 
fiery  work.  In  the  book  dedicated  “To  her  who  lives  by  my  side,”  Ver¬ 
haeren  lets  his  tenderness  speak  in  accents  musical  and  as  if  surprised 
at  their  own  gentleness  : 

J’etais  si  lourd,  si  las, 

J’etais  si  vieux  de  mefiance  .  .  . 

Je  meritais  si  peu  la  merveilleuse  joie 
De  voir  tes  pieds  illuminer  ma  voie, 

Que  yen  reste  tremblant  encore  et  presque  en  pleurs 
Et  humble,  a,  tout  jamais,  en  face  du  bonheur. 


142  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

It  is  not  solely  to  the  discovery  of  happiness,  however,  that  he  owes 
this  enlargement  of  his  art.  The  evolution  of  his  thought  contributed 
to  it  also.  Already  manifest  in  Les  Forces  tumultueuses  which  salutes 
the  dawn  of  the  new  century,  this  progress  will  be  marked  definitively  in 
La  Multiple  Splendeur.  There  is  seen  the  passage  from  an  imagina¬ 
tive  pantheism  to  an  intellectual  conscious  pantheism,  the  two  mingled 
in  this  declaration : 

Je  ne  distingue  plus  le  monde  de  moi-meme. 

Doubtless  the  exposition  of  this  faith  will  not  always  avoid  the  di¬ 
dactic  stiffness  which  is  the  danger  of  all  dogmatism ;  but  what  ample 
beauty  will  henceforth  add  itself  to  his  conception  of  the  universe: 

L’infini  tout  entier  transparait  sous  les  voiles 
Que  lui  tissent  les  doigts  des  hivers  radieux, 

Et  la  foret  obscure  et  profonde  des  cieux 
Laisse  tomher  sur  nous  son  feuillage  cfetoiles. 

So  that,  studying  the  expansion  of  this  considerable  work  in  contem¬ 
porary  poetry,1  we  shall  find  again,  even  in  Helene  de  Sparte,  the  lyri¬ 
cism  and  the  sovereign  rhythm  of  the  great  poet  of  Les  Villages 
illusoires. 


8.  FROM  SYMBOLISM  TO  CLASSICISM 

Symbolism  had  been  characterized  by  a  demand  for  the  rights  of 
poetic  personality  against  the  discipline  which  Le  Parnasse  had  re¬ 
ceived  from  the  classics  and  but  slightly  relaxed  by  a  few  Romantic  in¬ 
novations.  The  form  of  free  verse,  as  soon  became  apparent,  could 
nevertheless  suit  only  certain  temperaments  and  a  limited  number  of 
subjects.  We  have  seen  Henri  de  Regnier  evolving  quietly,  with 
aristocratic  elegance,  in  the  direction  of  classicism.  Others  showed 
less  discretion.  The  most  significant  body  of  work  produced  by  this 
return  from  Symbolism  to  the  classical  tradition  is  that  of  Jean 
Moreas. 

Athenian  by  birth,  Parisian  by  choice,  Moreas  had  been  one  of  the 
first  and  most  active  promoters  of  Symbolism.  His  initial  volume,  Les 
Syrtes,  showed  him  a  good  pupil  of  Verlaine — the  Verlaine  of  La 
Chanson  d’automne  (end  of  La  Carmencita )  and  of  Les  Fetes  galantes 
( Remembrances ) — a  good  pupil  of  Baudelaire  also,  of  his  artistic  sen¬ 
suality  and  of  his  melancholic  Satanism. 

Moreas  sang  then  sweet  nostalgic  songs  ( Parmi  les  marronniers) . 
He  asserted  the  charm  of  the  uneven  in  his  sonnets  of  nine  or  eleven 


i  Chapter  VIII. 


SYMBOLISM  143 

syllables  ( Les  Roses  jaunes,  Les  Bras  qui  se  nouent ).  In  Les  Canti- 
lenes,  side  by  side  with  rather  conventional  evocations  of  which  Le 
Ruffian  is  the  type  or  with  the  Oriental  or  mediaeval  legends  of  the 
Airs  et  Recits,  he  gave  a  place  to  magic  songs  of  musical  symbolism, 
like  V oix  qui  revenez  .  .  .  and  the  sonnet  Et  j’irai  le  long  de  la 
mer  eternelle.  He  reminded  his  companions  in  arms  however  that  his 
country  was 

La-bas  ou,  sous  les  dels  attiques, 

Les  crepuscles  radieux 
Teignent  d’amethyste  les  Dieux 
Sculptes  aux  f rises  des  portiques. 

His  bookish  culture,  his  taste  for  archaisms  led  to  odd  mosaics  of 
this  sort: 

La  prime  et  Vultime,  et  pennon 
Ou  I’aure  des  Promesses  joue, 

Et  mollette  de  bon  renom 
Brochant  le  Desir  qui  s’ebroue.  .  .  . 

He  owed  them  the  classical  compactness  of  Accalmie  or  of  this  quat¬ 
rain  anticipating  the  Stances: 

O  mer  immense,  mer  aux  rumeurs  monotones ; 

Tu  bergas  doucement  mes  reves  printanniers ; 

0  mer  immense,  mer  perfide  aux  mariniers, 

Sois  clemente  aux  douleurs  chastes  de  mes  automnes. 

The  same  year  (1890)  that  Jean  Moreas  terminated  Le  Pelerin  pas- 
sionne,  he  founded  the  Ecole  Romane  with  Maurice  du  Plessys,  Ray¬ 
mond  de  la  Tailhede,  Ernest  Raynaud  and  Charles  Maurras :  two 
phases  of  the  same  movement.  Doubtless  there  is  still  Symbolist  music 
in  Le  Pelerin;  doubtless  Moreas  still  employs  free  verse  in  the  Elegies 
and  the  Eglogues  and  sometimes  seeks  perversely  stumbling  harmonies ; 
but  he  had  clearly  taken  sides  against  free  verse  “with  exclusively  ma¬ 
terial  effects  and  illusory  liberties”:  “My  instinct  had  not  been  long 
in  warning  me  that  it  was  essential  to  return  to  true  classicism  and  to 
true  antiquity,  as  well  as  to  the  severest  traditional  versification;  and, 
at  the  very  height  of  the  Symbolist  triumph,  I  courageously  separated 
from  my  friends.” 

Antiquity  seen  through  the  French  tradition,  it  would  be  well  to  add. 
Moreas  was  nourished  on  our  ancient  literature,  as  proved  by  his 
Contes  de  la  vieille  France,  the  playful  archaisms  (Bit  d’un  chevalier 
qui  se  souvient )  and  the  supple  pictures  of  the  Middle  Ages  which,  in 


144-  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Le  Pelegrin,  contrast  with  the  harshness  of  certain  poems  of  repose 
( Choeur )  ;  but  it  is  to  the  Pleiade  he  turns  most  readily,  renewing 
its  rhythms,  its  language  and  its  themes : 

C’est  votre  haleine  fertile, 

Sacrant  ma  bouche  inutile, 

Qui  fait  quindigne  je  sais, 

De  gentil  son  et  haut  style, 

Hausser  le  Nombre  Frangais  (Discours') . 

However  Moreas  soon  freed  himself  from  the  charm  of  Ronsard 
who  does  not  let  himself  be  imitated  without  some  affectation,  and  Mal¬ 
herbe  would  have  approved  this  stanza  from  the  Epitaphe  de  Verlaine: 

La  foret  tour  a,  tour  se  pare  et  se  depouille ; 

Apres  le  beau  printemps  on  voit  Vhiver  venir; 

Et  de  la  F argue  aussi  la  fatale  quenouille 

Allonge  un  fil  mele  de  peine  et  de  plaisir. 

By  such  verses,  much  more  than  by  his  Iphigenie  after  Euripides,  a 
tragedy  which  does  justice  to  the  touching  familiarity  of  the  model 
but  which,  in  spite  of  the  flexibility  of  the  choruses  and  the  lyric  pas¬ 
sages  (the  heroine’s  farewell  to  life,  end  of  act  IV),  throws  into 
higher  relief,  in  a  desire  for  archaism,  its  insupportable  moralizing 
loquacity,  Moreas  deserves  to  be  called  a  classical  French  poet. 

A  great  classical  poet,  the  reader  of  Les  Stances  will  add.  Maur¬ 
ice  Barres  has  told  how,  on  his  death-bed,  the  poet  denied  the  old  dis¬ 
tinction  between  the  schools.  “We  shall  never  know,”  he  adds,  “what 
arguments  Moreas  might  have  given  me,  but  I  am  of  his  opinion.  I 
believe  that  a  so-called  romantic  sentiment,  if  it  be  raised  to  a  higher 
degree  of  culture,  assumes  a  classic  character.  I  have  seen  Moreas 
pass  from  one  aesthetic  to  the  other  as  he  grew  in  moral  nobility,  and  I 
am  aware  he  found  his  artistic  improvements  in  his  heart  grown  wise.” 
Les  Stances  offers  this  spectacle  of  the  mind,  master  of  itself,  scanning 
the  world  firmly  and  sadly.  He  describes  with  an  equal  distinctness, 
the  stronger  for  being  contained  in  one  or  two  perfect  stanzas,  the 
“trees  of  the  city,”  those  Parisian  chestnut-trees  of  which  he  sang  un¬ 
tiringly  and  the  “mystic  oaks,”  the  olives  of  Cephisus  which  classical 
associations  render  doubly  dear  in  his  eyes,  and  the  symbolic  cypresses. 
For  there  is  no  landscape  that  he  does  not  impregnate  with  his  senti¬ 
ments,  fugitive  beauty  of  which  his  thought  does  not  eternalize. 

Such  a  union  confers  its  poignant  beauty  upon  the  supreme  appeal  of 
Les  Stances,  Quand  reviendra  VAutomne  .  .  .  and  upon  that  vast, 
tranquilly  desperate  evocation,  Solitaire  et  pensif  .  .  . 


SYMBOLISM  145 

There  has  been  talk  of  Moreas’  stoicism,  he  has  been  hailed  as  Vig¬ 
ny’s  successor.  He  has  represented  himself  in  this  attitude  of  haughty 
despair : 

Quand  je  viendrai  m’asseoir  dans  le  vent,  dans  la  nuit, 

Au  bout  du  rocker  solitaire, 

Que  je  n’entendrai  plus,  en  t’ecoutant,  le  bruit 
Que  fait  mon  cceur  sur  cette  terre, 

Ne  te  contente  pas.  Ocean,  de  jeter 
Sur  mon  visage  un  peu  d’ecume: 

D’un  coup  de  lame  alors  il  te  faut  m’ emporter 
Pour  dormir  dans  ton  amertume. 

But,  because  he  believed  in  creative  power,  he  found  in  creation  an 
ample  consolation.  The  assurance  that  no  man  equals  the  poet  and 
that  he  himself  was  a  great  poet  he  has  expressed  with  a  sometimes 
artless  conceit. 

His  love  of  robust  classical  perfection  had  led  him  to  that  harmonious 
wisdom  which  dominates  life,  pacifying  mind  and  heart  reconciled  in  the 
grave  beauty  of  a  finished  poem : 

Ne  dites  pas:  la  vie  est  un  joyeux  festinj 
Ou  c’est  d’un  esprit  sot  ou  c’est  d’une  ame  basse. 

Surtout  ne  dites  point :  elle  est  malheur  sans  fin ; 

C’est  d’un  mauvais  courage  et  qui  trop  tot  se  lasse. 

Riez  comme  au  printemps  s’agitent  les  rameaux, 

Pleurez  comme  la  bise  ou  le  flat  sur  la  greve, 

Goutez  tons  les  plaisirs  et  souffrez  tous  les  mau ; 

Et  dites:  c’est  beaucoup  et  c’est  V ombre  d’un  reve. 

“To-day,”  remarked  Moreas,  “I  have  the  pleasure  of  observing  that 
everybody  is  coming  back  to  the  classic  and  to  antiquity.  If  his  ex 
ample  remains  the  most  significant  because  it  ends  in  Les  Stances  it 
was  not,  nevertheless,  unique.  Other  poets  announce  diversely,  at  the 
height  of  Symbolism,  a  return  to  tradition.  A  disciple  of  the  Ecole 
Romane,  Raymond  de  la  Tailhfede  merited  the  master’s  praises  for  the 
Ronsardism  of  the  poem  De  la  Metamorphose  des  fontaines.  Robert 
de  Montesquiou,  in  cultivating  his  Hortensias  bleus  and  in  mounting 
his  Perles  rouges,  sought  the  approbation  of  the  salons  rather  than  that 
of  the  Symbolist  writers.  Fernand  Severin,  poet  of  a  literary  Belgium, 
sang  with  restrained  emotion : 

Ce  qu’il  tient  de  douceur  dans  ce  simple  mot:  vivre. 

Louis  le  Cardonnel,  friend  of  Mallarme  and  Samain,  sometimes  used  the 
free  metres  but  it  was  in  regular  stanzas  that  he  celebrated  his  dual 

inspiration  and 


146  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Cette  antique  union  du  Poete  et  du  Pretre 

which  he  revives  in  himself.  Fernand  Gregh  whom  a  Yerlainian 
Menuet  made  famous  in  1896,  aimed  higher  than  this  renown  as  a  clever 
maker  of  pastiches.  An  agreeable  facility  enabled  him  to  join  to  it 
the  title  of  chief  of  “Humanisme”  and  to  present,  in  Les  Clartes  hu- 
viaines  and  L’Or  des  minutes,  a  loose  synthesis  of  the  ideas  and  the 
poetic  forms  of  his  epoch.  Paul  Souchon’s  Elevations  poetiques  owe 
their  liquid  ease  to  the  personal  influence  of  Samain  and  Regnier  rather 
than  to  the  Symbolist  doctrine.  As  to  Sebastien-Charles  Leconte,  his 
affinities  are  clearly  Parnassian  in  form  and  Romantic  in  inspira¬ 
tion,  and  it  would  be  unjust  to  pass  over  in  silence  the  curious  belated 
innovator,  Louis  Menard,  assembling  in  one  volume  his  Poemes  et 
Reveries  d'un  paien  mystique.  Indefatigable  seeker  in  the  Etudes  de 
prosodie,  a  spelling-reformer,  he  spent  his  whole  soul  and  his  whole 
talent  in  reviving  ancient  myths,  from  Prometheus  to  Julian: 

Dieus  eureux,  qu’adorait  le  jeunesse  du  monde, 

Qe  blasfeme  aujourd’hui  la  vieille  umanite, 

Laissez-moi  me  baigner  dans  la  source  feconde 
Oil  la  divine  Hellas  trouve  la  verite. 

It  was  equally  on  the  edge  of  Symbolism  that  Auguste  Angellier  ap¬ 
peared.  Coming  late  to  the  poetic  art  and  by  a  conscious  desire 
rather  than  by  an  instinctive  urge,  he  patiently  forged  his  own  instru¬ 
ment  ;  and  perhaps,  in  the  course  of  the  long  dialogues  situated  Dans  la 
lumiere  antique,  this  professor  who  bore  witness,  in  his  English  studies, 
to  a  keen  sense  of  the  concrete,  yielded  to  the  temptation  of  an  elo¬ 
quence  more  massively  Roman  than  subtly  Hellenic;  but  A  VAmi  perdu 
( Amissce  Amicce,  says  the  dedication  with  a  touch  of  learned  precious¬ 
ness)  presents  the  story  of  a  noble  drama  of  love  pursued  from  happi¬ 
ness  to  sacrifice  and,  what  is  rare,  to  virile  acceptance.  This  sonnet 
sequence  is  not  without  a  certain  monotony  but  its  severity  sometimes 
relaxes  in  delicate  meditations  ( Les  Caresses  des  yeux ),  in  refined 
touches  of  tenderness,  in  accents  of  pathetic  simplicity  where  the  poet 
confesses : 

Le  besoin  de  dormir  sur  une  epaule  humaine  .  .  . 

in  flights  of  sober  lyricism,  such  as  the  sonnet,  O  mer,  mer  immense. 

By  these  pieces  of  a  grave  beauty,  Angellier  joins  the  classical  line 
of  which  he  has  piously  renewed  the  immortal  theme : 

Que  ce  sonnet  ressemble  aux  gcderes  royales 

Qui  trainent  silr  les  flots  des  velours  f  ranges  d’or  .  .  . 


SYMBOLISM  147 

Charles  Guerin’s  work  reflects  exactly  the  aspirations  of  the  poets 
who  made  their  debut  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century.  The  Sym¬ 
bolist  doctrine  having  become  exhausted  without  any  other  taking  its 
place,  those  who  did  not  feel  for  classic  art  the  exclusive  affection  of  a 
Moreas  hesitated  among  the  various  influences.  Guerin  shows  traces 
of  Heredia,  of  Samain  and  especially  of  Jammes  to  whom  he  addressed 
an  elegy  which  is  probably  his  masterpiece.  Le  Coeur  solitaire  inter¬ 
prets  his  need  of  a  faith : 

Et  je  veux,  en  depit  de  la  Mort  souveraine, 

Afftrmer  qu’il  est  beau  de  vivre  et  d’etre  fort. 

He  also  expresses  in  the  “impassioned  melancholies”  his  doubt  as  to 
Love  and  his  “anxiety  concerning  God.”  Le  Semeur  de  cendres 
proves  he  had  reached  both  a  religious  and  an  artistic  assurance.  In 
L’ Homme  interieur,  after  a  last  melancholy  look  at  love,  Guerin  hints 
at  a  touching  regret  for  the  time  of  his  first  poetic  innocence,  before  he 
had  “confined”  his  inspiration  in  “strict  words.”  The  analysis  which 
brought  him  back  to  his  religion  seems,  indeed,  to  have  blunted  his 
creative  faculty  and  he  died  at  the  age  of  thirty-three,  without  having 
realized  the  great  work  promised  by  his  first  poems. 

9.  THE  SYMBOLIST  DRAMA 

The  Symbolist  drama  has  remained,  in  its  ensemble,  exclusively 
literary.  Phocas  le  Jardmier,  Polypheme  and  Le  Cloitre  are  works  of 
poets  rather  than  of  dramatists.  Gourmont’s  plays,  Theodat  and 
Lilith,  are  the  refined  fantasies  of  a  very  intelligent  and  very  sensual 
scholar  who  delights  in  ingenious  critical  variations.  Wilde’s  Salome 
offers  a  documentary  savour  seasoned  with  the  excesses  of  a  foreigner. 
Even  the  characterized  parodies,  Ubi  roi  and  Ubu  enchaine,  truculent 
farces  in  which,  by  means  of  barrack-room  jokes,  Alfred  Jarry  drew 
an  emblematic  figure  of  contemporary  stupidity,  become  completely  in¬ 
teresting  only  when  read. 

A  man  appeared  however  as  the  creator  of  a  Symbolist  drama.  Oc¬ 
tave  Mirbeau’s  enthusiastic  welcome  has  remained  famous :  “I  know 
nothing  of  Maurice  Maeterlinck.  .  .  I  know  only  that  no  man  is  more 
unknown  than  he;  and  I  know  too  he  has  written  a  masterpiece.” 
This  “masterpiece”  was  La  Princesse  Maleine.  Much  fun  has  since 
been  made  of  that  article,  as  also  of  the  critics  who  claimed  to  find  in 
Maeterlinck’s  first  plays  all  the  situations  both  of  ordinary  drama  and 
of  vaudeville.  Perhaps  however  these  two  attitudes  were  justified  by 
the  blend  of  novelty  and  artifice  presented  by  this  “puppet  theatre.” 

Maurice  Maeterlinck  had  begun  with  a  volume  of  verse,  Les  Serres 


148  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

chaudes,  where  he  endeavoured,  in  a  fusion  of  concrete  and  abstract 
and  in  a  tone  of  obstinate  incantation,  to  whisper  words  linked  by 
haunting  associations,  to  translate  the  complex  languor  of  souls  await¬ 
ing  a  mysterious  deliverance : 

Mon  dme  en  est  triste  d  la  fin ; 

Elle  est  triste  enfin  d’etre  lasse, 

Elle  est  lasse  enfin  d’etre  en  vain. 

Elle  est  triste  et  lasse  a  la  fin 
Et  y attends  vos  mains  sur  ma  face 

(Ame  de  Nuit.') 

Perhaps  we  should  be  tempted,  to-day,  to  be  unjustly  severe  for 
these  lieder,  feeling  in  them  the  trick  to  which  numerous  poets  have 
had  recourse  without  confessing  their  indebtedness  to  them.  The  same 
scruple  would  be  felt  before  La  Princesse  Maleine  had  not  the  author, 
in  the  preface  to  his  dramatic  works,  forestalled  us :  “It  would  have 
been  easy  to  suppress  in  La  Princesse  Maleine  many  dangerous  naivetes, 
some  useless  scenes  and  the  major  part  of  those  astonished  repetitions 
which  give  the  characters  the  air  of  slightly  deaf  somnambulists  con¬ 
stantly  awakened  from  a  painful  dream.  I  might  thus  have  spared 
them  some  smiles,  but  the  atmosphere  and  even  the  landscape  where 
they  live  would  have  appeared  changed.”  To  enjoy  La  Princesse 
Maleine  to-day  one  must  indeed  pass  over  the  made-to-order  Shake- 
spearianisms,  overlook  the  puerilities,  the  “ Ma-aleine  est  ma-alade ” 
of  the  little  Allan  (one  of  those  terrible  “ clairvoyants ”  of  Maeter¬ 
linck’s  plays),  the  interminable,  incoherent  conversations  in  which  the 
characters  bear  witness,  insatiably,  to  their  “slightly  haggard  idea  of 
the  Universe.”  Then  it  will  be  possible  to  recognize  the  magic  power 
of  the  fourth  act  where  the  two  royal  accomplices  assassinate  the 
princess. 

It  must  be  admitted  that  these  plays  have  considerably  aged. 
Artifice  is  rampant  in  them.  There  are  too  many  old  towers,  doves, 
symbolic  keys,  unhealthy  castles,  factitious  oppositions  where  the  sea, 
the  wind  and  the  light  play  roles  devoid  of  mystery ;  too  many  falsely 
naive  “you  are  beautifuls !”  and  soul  kisses  and  popular  songs  suddenly 
illuminated  with  a  profound  meaning.  Nothing  is  more  uneven  than 
this  dialogue  stammering  and  maxims  of  mystic  philosophy  alternate, 
where  barbarousness  adorns  itself  with  painfully  ingenuous  euphuisms. 
Beginning  with  L’lntruse  the  methods  reveal  themselves  brutally  me¬ 
chanical.  In  Les  Aveugles  they  are  already  frankly  unbearable. 
Preoccupied  by  the  presence  of  death  which  “fills  all  the  interstices 
of  the  poem,”  Maeterlinck  essays  to  create  an  atmosphere  where  life 


SYMBOLISM  149 

feels  this  shadow  weighing  upon  it.  The  difficulty  was  to  vary  this 
evocation.  He  did  not  succeed.  Or  rather  he  succeeded  only  in  the 
places  where  he  has  made  this  menace  hover  over  beings  sufficiently 
characterized  for  them  to  move  us  personally.  It  is  not  the  symbolism 
which  touches  us  in  Alladine  et  Palomides  or  La  Mort  de  Tintagiles, 
dramas  of  love  and  of  fright. 

Pelleas  et  Melisande  requires  to  be  placed  apart.  This  drama  has 
the  same  defects  as  its  predecessors ;  but  the  intervention  of  a  musical 
genius  has  shown,  better  than  any  literary  criticism,  how  what  it  lacked 
to  be  ranked  as  a  masterpiece  could  be  supplied  by  a  recreative  effort 
which  should  humanize  intimations  so  vague  they  might  equally  well  be 
called  sublime  or  childish,  which  should  transform  inconsistent  phan¬ 
toms  into  living  creatures ;  and  Pelleas  marks  a  progress  in  Maeter¬ 
linck’s  art  by  the  presence  of  Arkel,  of  a  conscient  being,  in  the  midst 
of  these  victims  of  fatality. 

Maeterlinck  has  himself  signalized  this  evolution  with  reference  to 
Aglavaine  et  Selysette:  “There,”  he  says,  “I  should  have  wished  death 
to  yield  to  love,  to  wisdom  or  to  happiness  a  part  of  its  power.  It  did 
not  obey  me.”  What  matter?  The  important  thing  is  that  unanimous 
acquiescence  in  the  caprices  of  an  unknown  fatality  has  been  succeeded 
by  an  effort  at  comprehension,  although  isolated  and  inefficacious. 
Drama  really  begins  that  day  only  when  man  looks  destiny  in  the  face, 
even  should  he  be  obliged  to  bow  to  it  afterwards  with  melancholy  like 
Arkel  and  Aglavaine,  both  equally  powerless  to  avert  the  foreseen 
catastrophe.  This  new  conviction  on  Maeterlinck’s  part  explains  the 
character  of  the  plays  which  follow.  For  five  of  Bluebeard’s  wives  de¬ 
liverance  is  useless ;  but  Ariane  truly  escapes.  Sceur  Beatrice  proves 
further  that  an  equal  mystery  resides  in  love  and  in  hatred ;  but  Monna 
Yanna  and  Prinzivalle  are  united  in  love  by  the  most  paradoxical  of 
routes,  and  Marco — a  stoic  Arkel — approves  of  Vanna:  “You  have 
done  the  impossible.  .  .  It  is  just  and  unjust,  as  all  one  does.  .  . 
And  life  is  right.” 

This  change  of  perspective  in  Maeterlinck’s  drama  corresponds  to  a 
development  in  his  thought.  His  first  collection  of  essays,  Le  Tresor 
des  humbles,  clearly  indicates  in  what  state  of  mind  his  plays  were 
conceived.  The  most  urgent  task  seemed  to  him  “the  awakening  of 
the  Soul.”  How  absent  the  soul  was,  according  to  him,  from  certain 
masterpieces :  “If  Racine  is  the  infallible  poet  of  woman’s  heart,  who 
would  dare  tell  us  he  has  ever  made  a  step  towards  her  soul?”  To 
provoke  its  awakening  among  contemporaries,  he  appealed  to  the  great 
mystics  of  the  past,  to  Novalis,  to  Ruysbroeck,  to  Emerson  whom  he 
had  studied  and  translated.  He  repeated  Carlyle’s  advice,  that  one 


150 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


must  plunge  back  into  silence  to  hear  there  anew  the  great  voices  of  in¬ 
visible  goodness  and  profound  life  which  will  reveal  the  sources  of 
daily  tragedy  and  of  inner  beauty.  A  noble  program  which  Le  Tresor 
des  humbles  stated  in  a  fraternally  penetrating  and  convincingly  elo¬ 
quent  prose;  but  it  ended  in  a  failure,  since  this  mystical  retirement 
into  the  depths  of  the  soul  forbade  the  habitual  communications  between 
beings.  Maeterlinck  admitted  it,  confronted  with  the  impossibility  of 
erecting  a  mystical  morality:  “It  is  not  possible  to  speak  of  these 
things  because  one  is  too  much  alone.” 

“I  have  never  placed  myself  across  the  path  of  a  destiny,”  said  Arkel. 
“We  have  not  the  right  to  weigh  the  destiny  of  others,”  echoed  Agla- 
vaine;  but  old  Meligrane’s  voice  rose  in  its  turn:  “It  is  not  always 
the  finest  truths  which  prevail  against  simpler,  older  truths.”  Until 
then  Maeterlinck’s  plays  had  confined  themselves  to  representing  a 
struggle  between  destinies.  He  had  now  to  enlarge  it  enough  to 
depict  the  conflict  between  opposing  wisdoms.  He  convinced  himself, 
at  the  same  time,  that  the  affirmations  of  Le  Tresor  des  humbles  were 
not  adequate,  that  he  must  submit  to  the  patient  exploration  of  the 
soul  by  intelligence,  to  its  slow,  groping  definition  by  means  of  language. 
After  Le  Tresor  des  humbles  he  found,  spontaneously,  stoic  accents  in 
which  to  speak  to  the  universe.  Two  years  later,  he  published  La 
Sagesse  et  la  Destinee,  a  book  completely  impregnated  with  Marcus 
Aurelius  in  which,  however,  he  by  no  means  renounced  his  effort  to 
evoke  the  inexpressible  in  the  soul:  “All  inner  life,”  he  declared,  “be¬ 
gins  less  at  the  moment  of  the  development  of  intelligence  than  at  that 
when  the  soul  becomes  good.”  Destiny  is  neither  just  nor  unjust.  It 
merely  brings  us  an  invitation  “to  judge  ourselves”  and  to  identify  our¬ 
selves  “with  the  secret  will  of  life”  to  the  extent  of  deciding  frankly 
that  “whatever  happens  will  be  happiness.”  His  dramatic  essays  fol¬ 
lowed  the  same  curve.  They  have  been  reproached,  from  a  strictly 
scenic  point  of  view,  with  their  character  of  philosophical  dialogues 
and  with  those  long  dialogues  in  blank  verse  which  sometimes  weary  the 
spectator’s  ear.  We  shall  do  them  justice  if  we  discern  in  them  the 
idealized  stages  in  the  progress  of  his  thought,  if  we  hear  in  the  “There 
are  no  dead”  of  L’Oiseau  bleu  the  negation  of  the  first  nightmares 
which  haunted  the  author  of  La  Princesse  Maleine  and  the  supreme  de¬ 
liverance  of  one  of  the  noblest  seekers  after  truth  of  our  epoch. 

10.  SCHWOB  AND  GOURMONT 

Long  before  the  harmonious  phrases  of  Le  Tresor  des  humbles  and 
La  Sagesse  et  la  Destinee  had  found  an  echo  in  souls,  Symbolism  already 
counted  two  prose-writers  who,  by  the  extent  of  their  culture,  by  the 


SYMBOLISM  151 

union  in  their  works  of  the  creative  gift  and  of  the  critical  faculty,  de¬ 
serve  to  be  considered  the  directors  of  its  literary  conscience. 

It  is  by  Spicilege  that  Marcel  Schwob  should  be  approached  to 
grasp  the  diversity  and  the  strength  of  his  mind.  One  will  admire 
the  fineness  of  his  psychological  essays  on  Laughter  or  Perversity. 
One  will  appreciate  the  ease  of  his  erudition  in  the  studies  on  Greek 
courtesans  ( Plangon  et  Bacchis )  or  the  Christian  legends  ( Saint  Julien 
V Hospitaller).  One  will  see  him  sympathetically  hospitable  to  every 
greatness,  revealing  to  the  French  the  great  Meredith  “giving  the 
spectacle  of  the  most  prodigious  intellectual  function  of  this  century.” 
One  will  feel  what  pleasure  this  historian-artist  had  in  studying,  apro¬ 
pos  of  Francis  Villon,  the  “jargon  of  the  coquillards”  and  resur¬ 
recting  that  confused  life.  One  will  recognize  the  perfection  attained 
by  this  universal  curiosity  in  the  dialogues  on  love,  art  and  anarchy. 
Nothing  is  more  finished  than  the  first  of  these  conversations  where,  in 
an  atmosphere  of  Platonic  poetry  and  of  Socratic  irony,  a  host,  mo¬ 
mentarily  transformed  into  an  actor  of  the  Middle  Ages,  examines 
with  his  guests  (who  incarnate,  under  the  names  of  Hylas,  Herr  Bac- 
calaureus,  Rodion  Raskolnikoff  and  Sir  Willoughby,  lessons  of  antique 
materialism,  Mephistophelian  logic,  Dostoievsky  and  Meredith)  the 
question  whether  women  can  be  called  the  puppets  or  shadows  of  love. 

In  the  study  on  Robert  Louis  Stevenson,  Schwob  indicates  the  prede¬ 
cessors  who  have  most  struck  his  imagination :  Villon  with  his  gallows- 
birds,  Shakespeare  whose  Falstafl*  “gives  up  the  ghost  like  an  old 
pirate,”  Poe  and  the  skull  nailed  to  a  tree  in  The  Gold  Bug,  the  narra¬ 
tives  of  filibusters.  He  unites  in  the  same  respect  Odysseus,  Robin¬ 
son  Crusoe,  Arthur  Gordon  Pym  and  Captain  Kidd ;  and  if  he  praises 
Stevenson,  it  is  to  praise  above  all  the  “romanticism  of  his  realism.” 

Indefatigable  reader,  relentless  worker,  passionately  fond  of  history, 
languages,  chemistry  and  astrology,  master  of  several  ancient  and 
modern  languages,  translator  of  Shakespeare  and  Defoe,  Schwob  put 
this  formidable  erudition  at  the  service  of  his  imagination  as  a  story¬ 
teller.  We  have  seen  to  whom  his  preferences  were  given.  They  were 
not  exclusive.  If  he  announced  that  the  novel  should  become  “a  novel 
of  adventure,”  the  volume  entitled  La  Lampe  de  Psyche  shows  that  this 
saying  should  be  taken  “in  the  largest  sense.”  La  Croisade  des  en- 
fants  and  L’Etoile  de  hois  tell  two  simple  legends  with  sober  precision. 
Mimes  revives  in  a  series  of  exquisite  genre  pictures  an  antique  life 
idealized  with  refinement.  Le  Livre  de  Monelle  finally  remains  a  bre¬ 
viary  of  all  the  influences  which  acted  upon  Symbolist  sensibility.  In 
each  of  these  varied  evocations  his  talent  unites  the  same  descriptive 
firmness  with  the  same  pensive  grace. 


152  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

His  most  precious  originality  is,  however,  revealed  in  the  numerous 
stories  of  Cceur  double,  of  Le  Roi  au  masque  d’ or  and  of  the  Vies 
imaginaires.  Each  book  is  preceded  by  a  preface  in  which  he  analyses 
his  art.  As  early  as  1891,  he  announced  that  “pseudo-scientific 
descriptions,  the  display  of  handbook  psychology  and  ill-digested  bi¬ 
ology”  would  be  banished  from  fiction.  He  recalled  that  “the  heart  of 
man  is  double.  In  it  selfishness  balances  charity.  In  it  the  person  is 
the  counterpoise  of  the  masses.”  Humanity  advances  “by  the  road  of 
history  from  terror  to  pity.”  There  is  adventure  or  crisis  “every  time 
the  double  oscillation  of  the  outer  world  and  the  inner  world  brings 
about  an  encounter.”  The  task  of  art  will  be  to  describe  these  ad¬ 
ventures,  to  paint  men  involved  in  these  crises.  Now  to  paint  is  to 
express  at  the  same  time  both  resemblances  and  differences.  The 
preface  to  Le  Roi  au  masque  d’ or  insists  more  upon  resemblance:  “I 
have  written  a  book  in  which  there  are  masks  and  covered  faces :  a 
king  masked  with  gold,  a  savage  with  a  furry  snout,  Italian  tramps 
with  plague-stricken  faces  and  French  tramps  with  false  faces,  galley- 
slaves  helmeted  with  red,  young  girls  suddenly  grown  old  in  a  mirror, 
and  a  singular  crowd  of  lepers,  embalmers,  eunuchs,  assassins,  demon¬ 
iacs  and  pirates,  among  whom  I  pray  the  reader  to  believe  I  have  no 
preference,  being  certain  they  are  not  so  different.”  In  the  introduc¬ 
tion  to  Vies  imaginaires  he  stresses,  on  the  contrary,  the  differences: 
“Art  is  the  opposite  of  general  ideas,  describing  only  the  individual, 
desiring  only  the  unique.  It  does  not  classify,  it  declassifies.  .  .  Old 
Hokusai  saw  clearly  one  must  succeed  in  individualizing  what  is  most 
general.  .  .  Boswell  had  not  the  aesthetic  courage  to  choose.  The  bi¬ 
ographer’s  art  resides  precisely  in  choice.”  The  truth  is  that  in  his 
eyes  “difference  and  resemblance  are  points  of  view,”  that  Schwob 
finally  reconciles  this  apparent  antimony  in  the  Jewish  conception  of 
an  indestructible  divine  unity:  “We  are  words,  but  joined  in  the 
phrase  of  the  universe,  itself  joined  to  the  glorious  period  which  is  one 
in  its  thought.” 

We  have  quoted  his  own  summary  of  Le  Roi  au  masque  d’or.  It 
will  give  some  idea  of  the  world  of  characters  which  troop  through 
such  a  book.  Each  volume  of  stories  contains  the  same  wealth  of 
human  history  from  the  most  remote  times  to  the  present.  His  gifts  as 
an  animator  never  fail.  In  them  reigns,  declares  Leon  Daudet,  “a  per¬ 
fect  taste,  never  a  false  step,  or  a  surcharge.”  Even  if  the  subject 
chosen  leaves  us  indifferent,  the  minute  execution  forces  our  admiration. 
In  the  mediaeval  narratives,  particularly,  the  reader  will  sometimes  in¬ 
cline  to  Paul  Valery’s  attitude:  “Marcel  Schwob’s  astonishing  con¬ 
versation  won  me  to  his  own  charm  more  than  to  its  sources.  I  drank 


SYMBOLISM  153 

as  long  as  it  lasted  ...  I  did  not  feel  for  the  erudition  all  the  fervour 
due  it.”  There  is  erudition,  above  all,  in  Blanche  la  sanglante  or  Les 
Faux  Saulniers ;  but  even  there,  where  the  care  for  historic  reconstitu¬ 
tion  a  little  overweighs  the  human  interest,  the  touch  keeps  a  rare  dis¬ 
tinctness,  equally  happy  whether  Schwob  faithfully  follows  the  tradi¬ 
tion  ( Clodia )  or  amuses  himself  in  opposing  it  ( Petrone ).  His  art  is 
equal  to  any  mystery,  whether  in  La  Cite  dormante,  Les  Embaumeuses 
or  Les  Faulx  Visaigec.  He  plays  upon  the  sombrest  sentiments  of  the 
soul,  the  terror  of  La  Peste  and  of  La  Charrette,  the  gruesome  humour 
of  Un  Squelette  (very  superior  to  the  imitations  of  Mark  Twain  in  Sur 
les  dents  and  L’Homme  gras),  the  awakening  of  instinct  in  criminals 
( Cruchette ,  Creve-Cceur)  which  conduct  the  reader  to  evocations  of 
the  guillotine  ( Fleur  de  cinq  pierres,  Instantanees )  and  to  presenti¬ 
ments  of  La  Terre  future ;  the  fantastically  tragic  ( Le  train  081)  end¬ 
ing  in  the  most  lyrical  lunacy  ( Arachne ,  Beatrice) .  He  excels  equally 
in  vast  syntheses  where  the  portrait  of  a  man  of  thought  sums  up  the 
picture  of  a  whole  epoch  ( Empedocle ,  Lucrece)  and  in  stories  of  piracy 
told  with  a  dry  irony  of  which  MM.  Burke  et  Hare,  assassins ,  offers 
the  most  successful  example.  Like  Yilliers,  he  levies  upon  the  latest 
discoveries  of  science  (La  Machine  a  parler)  and  of  applied  psychology 
(L’Homme  double,  L’Homme  voile).  He  utilizes  so-called  subver¬ 
sive  doctrines  in  that  lie  de  la  liberte  where  Gourmont  saw  the  witty 
statement  of  “fakerism-anarchy” ;  but  perhaps  his  most  admirable 
stories  are  those  he  situates  outside  of  historic  times,  the  powerful 
visions  of  L’lncendie  terrestre  and  La  Vendeuse  d’ambre,  the  grandiose 
Roi  au  masque  d’or  which  his  symbolism  dates  without  weakening  it, 
and  that  dense  masterpiece,  La  Mort  d’Odjigh.  All — even  the  most 
insignificant  as  to  subject — will  be  preserved  from  oblivion  by  the  per¬ 
fection  of  a  style  at  once  simple  and  full,  mellow  and  rich,  without  use¬ 
less  ornaments.  If  allegorical  figures  were  still  the  fashion,  one  would 
like  to  imagine,  on  the  threshold  of  his  work,  as  his  worthiest  Muse,  the 
woman  he  has  described  in  two  fragrant  sentences:  “Her  breasts  were 
supported  by  a  red  strophe  and  the  soles  of  her  sandals  were  perfumed. 
For  the  rest,  she  was  beautiful  and  long  of  body,  and  very  desirable  in 
colour.” 

Criticism  seems  then,  with  Marcel  Schwob,  to  have  been  the  artist’s 
very  intelligent  auxiliary.  It  is  rather  the  reverse  that  should  be  said 
of  Remy  de  Gourmont  as  moreover  of  Sainte-Beuve ;  but,  whereas 
Joseph  Delorme  retired  with  Amaury  into  a  critical  episcopacy, 
Gourmont  never  renounced  the  ambitions  of  the  creator:  “I  am 
haunted  by  the  technique  of  the  unknown  masterpiece,”  he  confesses  in 


154  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  preface  to  the  book  in  which  he  recounts  the  adventures  of  Anti- 
philos  among  men.  Now  all  his  imaginative  works,  from  Sixtine,  a 
“novel  of  the  cerebral  life”  and  the  unactable  Lilith  to  the  inconceiv¬ 
able  Lettres  d’un  satyre,  belie  this  hope  of  liberation  in  spontaneous 
invention.  Gourmont’s  talent  remains  incontestable  but  he  exceeds 
his  domain.  The  Histoires  magiques ,  the  stories  in  Un  Pays  lointain 
and  Couleurs  offer  us  not  so  much  veritable  narratives  as  the  delicate 
fantasies  of  a  writer  letting  his  fancy  play  about  indefinite  ideas  or 
sweet  past  things,  already  a  little  faded.  TJne  nuit  an  Luxembourg  is 
only  a  subtle  play  upon  the  strings  of  curiosity.  The  allegories  of 
Le  Pelerin  du  silence,  the  verses  of  Le  Livre  des  Litanies,  the  poems  of 
Simone  appear  to  us  to-day  very  ingenious  pastiches  of  a  superannuated 
art  whose  cleverness  we  can  admire  all  the  more  because  it  troubles  us 
with  no  emotion.  Even  the  most  successful  of  these  attempts,  Les 
Chevaux  de  Diomede,  bears  the  mark  of  time.  We  no  longer  believe  in 
the  superior  airs  of  the  hero  going  through  his  evolutions  in  a  factitious 
harem.  In  the  finest  chapters  of  complicated  passion  ( Les  Mains, 
Les  Marronniers ),  we  are  too  aware  of  the  intervention  of  the  puppet 
showman  ready  to  dissect  these  fictions,  to  reveal,  beneath  their  pas¬ 
sions,  the  instincts  which  decoy  them.  Not  that  this  presence  of  the 
ego  is  odious.  It  expresses  itself  sometimes  in  charming  sallies : 
“Diomede,  are  you  ready  to  follow  your  theories  to  the  end?”  “To 
the  end?  No,  not  to-day.  It  is  too  far”;  but  verisimilitude  suffers 
from  it  as  does  our  belief  in  the  reality  of  the  characters.  Perhaps 
the  balance  between  the  creator’s  rights  and  those  of  his  creations  is 
particularly  difficult  for  so  conscious  a  writer  to  attain.  When  Gour- 
mont  warns  us  that  “in  this  book  which  is  a  little  novel  of  possible  ad¬ 
ventures,  thought,  act,  dream,  sensuality  are  exhibited  on  the  same 
plane  and  analysed  with  the  same  goodwill,”  he  touches  the  point  where 
the  novel  is  on  the  eve  of  becoming  an  essay.  Does  he  not  go  beyond 
it  when  he  adds  that  “all  manifestations  of  human  activity  seem  quite 
equivalent,”  when  he  writes  as  a  motto  for  each  of  the  chapters  the 
sentence  with  which  he  is  most  satisfied,  when  he  transforms  sensuality 
into  sickly  erotomania? 

In  so  subtle  a  work,  interest,  however,  does  not  flag.  If  it  turns 
from  the  illusory  actors,  it  is  to  concentrate  upon  the  personality  of 
the  author.  Gourmont,  who  entitled  his  poems  Divertissements,  was 
too  perspicacious  not  to  know  that  the  same  title  would  suit  all  his 
imaginative  works.  Questioning  himself  he  would  doubtless  have  rec¬ 
ognized  that  his  desire  for  artistic  creation  was  only  one  of  the  forms 
of  that  need  for  love  which  obsessed  him.  The  problem  of  love  haunted 
Remy  de  Gourmont.  On  several  occasions  he  sought  to  solve  it.  In 


SYMBOLISM  155 

La  Physique  de  V amour,  an  “essay  on  the  sexual  instinct,”  he  brings  a 
scientific  precision  to  the  study  of  the  organs  of  love  and  the  mechan¬ 
ism  of  love  in  animals  and  in  man  whom  he  restores  to  his  place  in  the 
scale  of  creation.  The  Lettres  a  Vamazone  continue  the  same  analysis 
from  another  point  of  view:  “To  speak  of  love  with  a  young  woman  is 
one  of  the  pleasures  of  our  delicate  civilization.”  He  abandons  himself 
to  it  entirely,  speaking  at  length  of  chastity,  naked  love,  pleasure,  de¬ 
sire.  To  his  erudition  he  adds  the  refined  art  which  permits  him  to  say 
delicate  truths  brutally  and  brutal  truths  delicately.  He  deploys  his 
coquetry  for  a  friend  whose  mind  he  pretends  to  love  no  less  than  her 
heart.  Suddenly  he  believes  himself  liberated :  “And  then,  resur¬ 
rected  Amazon,  I  desire  seriously  but  one  thing,  to  offer  you  my  happy 
egotism” — a  sentiment  which,  were  it  true,  would  be  odious ;  but  it 
too  is  a  snare,  and  again  lassitude  returns:  “Then  I  shall  go  just  like 
another  by  the  roads  and  the  inns  towards  the  end  of  the  world,  which 
is  the  nearest  shore.”  A  drama  without  conclusion.  From  Le  Fan- 
tome  and  Les  Oraisons  mauvaises  where  he  perversely  drowned  love  in 
liturgical  evocations,  to  Un  Coeur  virginal ,  the  story  of  a  young  girl 
which,  he  says  in  the  preface,  must  certainly  be  called  “a  physiological 
novel,”  Remy  de  Gourmont  remained  haunted  by  the  obsession  of  love, 
of  its  realities,  of  its  depravities,  of  its  simplicity  and  of  its  mystery. 
He  explained  it  to  others  a  hundred  times.  Did  he  convince  himself? 
It  may  be  doubted.  For,  according  to  his  brother’s  remark,  “nothing 
entered  his  intelligence  save  caressed  by  his  sensibility.”  At  least, 
if  this  aspiration  for  unsatisfied  voluptuousness  paralysed  his  creative 
expansion,  it  sustained  in  his  mind  the  insatiable  curiosity  of  a  lively 
critic  and  of  a  penetrating  dissociator  of  ideas  who,  in  his  charming 
Lettres  a  Sixtine ,  was  at  once  lover  and  “flute-player.” 

He  has  strongly  expressed  the  necessity  for  this  alliance  of  body  and 
brain  in  his  three  essential  works,  La  Culture  des  idees,  Le  Chemin  de 
velours  and  Le  Prohleme  du  style:  “We  write  as  we  feel,  as  we  think, 
with  our  whole  body.  Intelligence  is  but  a  form  of  sensibility  .  .  . 
For  all  is  interdependent  and  intellectual  ease  is  certainly  connected 
with  liberty  of  sensation.  He  who  cannot  feel  everything  cannot 
understand  everything,  and  not  to  understand  everything  is  to  under¬ 
stand  nothing.”  On  this  point  he  shows  himself  unyielding.  “If  you 
do  not  take,  in  handling  ideas,  a  physical  pleasure  akin  to  caressing  a 
shoulder  or  a  piece  of  stuff,  leave  ideas  alone.  Not  that  he  was  un¬ 
aware  of  the  dangers  of  his  method.  He  knew  the  seduction  of  ad¬ 
mitted  truths,  “commonplaces  not  yet  dissociated,”  of  those  precise, 
clear  expressions  which  “have  no  meaning,  are  affirmative  gestures  sug¬ 
gesting  obedience,  and  that  is  all.”  He  admitted  the  difficulties  of  com- 


156  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

plexity :  “To  explain  a  straw,  the  whole  universe  must  be  taken  to 
pieces.”  He  refused  to  bow  before  the  dogma  of  the  immutability  of 
ideas :  “Believe,  and  believe  also  when  I  tell  you  the  contrary  ;  for  it  is 
not  necessary  always  to  believe  the  same  thing”;  but  he  rejected  the 
charge  of  paradox :  “I  never  made  one  deliberately.  However,  I  do 
not  claim  to  dictate  judgments  upon  myself.  A  mind  of  some  boldness 
will  always  seem  paradoxical  to  timid  minds.  One  must  accept  the 
rules  of  the  game  of  thought  with  all  its  consequences.”  He  was  firmly 
persuaded  that  the  game  of  thought  necessitated  this  lucid  interroga¬ 
tory  of  all  reality  by  the  whole  being,  this  minute  “dissociation  of 
ideas”  of  which  he  could  say:  “It  strengthens  the  muscles,  it  calms 
the  pulse  .  .  .  it  is  a  method  of  deliverance.” 

This  anti-bookish,  concrete  method  Gourmont  practised  for  years. 
Twenty  volumes  of  chronicles  ( Epilogues ,  Promenades  litteraires. 
Promenades  philo so phiques.  Dialogues  des  amateurs  etc.),  vouch  for  its 
efficacy.  In  them  Gourmont  fully  attains  his  object  which  is  “to  make 
things  known  much  rather  than  to  appreciate  them  authoritatively.” 
He  brings  the  same  competence  to  the  discussion  of  Quinton’s  theories 
or  to  reconstituting  a  story  of  adultery — the  same  ease  in  ar¬ 
ranging  his  memories  of  Symbolism  and  in  defending  the  services 
the  Jesuits  have  rendered  civilization,  in  spite  of  their  blemishes.  His 
erudition  finds  an  outlet  in  connection  with  Hu}^smans’  La  Cathedrale 
or  with  a  thesis  on  medical  psychology.  He  will  show  a  Swiftian  irony 
in  the  Conseils  familiers  a  un  jeune  ecrivain  and  a  smiling  tenderness  in 
speaking  of  women,  from  the  instant  when  the  “amphora  becomes  once 
more  a  beautiful  young  girl  with  throbbing  bosom  and  anxious  eyes.” 
He  will  show  all  the  wealth  of  his  thought  in  a  fragment  like  that  Sur 
la  hierarchic  intellectuelle.  He  will  lucidly  defend  his  masters,  Villiers 
and  Mallarme,  and  will  be  able,  speaking  of  Verlaine,  to  maintain  an 
equal  distance  from  idolatry  and  pedantic  vulgarity.  An  article  such 
as  P sychologie  Nouvelle  will  show  his  sympathy  for  the  young  writ¬ 
ers.  Capable  of  judging  his  contemporaries  with  a  penetrating  gaze 
in  the  two  Limes  des  masques,  it  will  please  him,  in  the  Dialogues  des 
amateurs,  to  comment  day  by  day  upon  contemporary  events  in  the 
manner  of  Anatole.  France  whose  learned  grace  he  does  not  possess 
but  whom  he  far  surpasses  in  originality  and  penetrating  insight. 

One  subject  in  particular  held  his  attention:  the  life  of  words,  for 
which  his  stay  at  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale  had  perhaps  increased  his 
love.  He  believed  in  their  power :  “Pay  attention  to  the  words  which 
rise  and  live,  to  improvised  evocations,  to  creative  incantations,  pay  at¬ 
tention  to  the  logic  of  speech.  All  syllables  are  not  vain.”  In  com¬ 
posing  articles  on  linguistics,  Le  Latin  mystique,  L’Esthetique  de  la 


SYMBOLISM  157 

langue  frangaise,  Le  Probleme,  chi  style,  he  paid  a  debt  of  gratitude:; 
“Words  have  perhaps  given  me  more  numerous  and  more  decisive  joys 
than  ideas” ;  but  there  again  he  kept  his  independence  and,  in  refuting 
Albalat’s  affirmations  even  to  the  extent  of  grammatical  subtleties,  he 
declared  his  aim  was  “rather  to  develop  five  or  six  motives  for  not  be¬ 
lieving  in  rhetorical  receipts.” 

He  continued  to  the  end  of  the  task  he  had  assigned  himself.  His 
war  articles  have  been  collected  in  Les  idees  du  jour  and  Pendant 
Forage.  He  was  one  of  those  rare  writers  not  blinded  by  the  catas¬ 
trophe.  He  knew  that,  in  the  human  tragedy,  peace  was  never  per¬ 
haps  more  an  entr’acte :  “It  is  so  difficult  to  be  a1  true  neutral,”  he 
added,  “that  perhaps  it  is  better  to  be  a  belligerent.”  He  kept  his 
hope  no  less  high  on  that  account,  for  “life  is  an  act  of  confidence” — 
a  fine  reply  to  those  who  had  not  understood  that  his  negations  drew 
their  force,  not  from  scepticism  but  from  a  methodical  reclassification 
of  ideas  after  their  dissociation.  Doubtless  he  had  sometimes  carried 
experimentation  so  far  as  to  “side  with  the  instinctive  creature 
against  the  rational  creature  whose  reason  is  so  limited.”  His  faith  in 
the  law  of  intellectual  and  sentimental  constancy,  based  upon  Quinton’s 
scientific  investigations  which  he  has  developed  in  the  Epilogues,  per¬ 
mitted  him  to  give  free  play  to  his  intelligence  with  the  tranquil  assur¬ 
ance  it  would  not  founder  and  never  abdicate.  Thereby  he  lives,  even 
for  those  whose  intellectual  development  for  twenty-five  years  has  not 
been  aided  by  his  chronicles  in  Le  Mercure,  a  great  humanist  and  a  very 
precious  thinking-master. 

11.  CONCLUSION 

The  importance  of  Symbolism  comes  out  clearly  at  the  end  of  this 
study.  It  has  been  the  most  fertile  literary  movement  of  these  last 
fifty  years.  Its  own  contribution  has  been  considerable.  It  is  neces¬ 
sary  to  go  back  to  the  Romantic  era  to  find  such  a  flowering  of  great 
works,  a  similar  commotion  of  sensibility  and  of  intelligence. 

This  statement,  however,  is  not  sufficient.  Symbolism,  in  fact, 
achieved  the  overthrow  of  Naturalism.  Even  the  supreme  partisans  of 
that  form  of  art  have  felt  its  influence  and  Zola’s  last  novels  bear  its 
mark.  The  reawakening  of  Romanticism  occurred  in  its  shadow. 
There  is  something  of  Banville  and  of  Hugo  in  Rostand’s  plays,  but 
there  is  also  a  desire  for  symbols  which,  even  if  ineffectual,  possesses  an 
evidential  value.  Symbolism  was  followed  by  a  classical  reaction. 
Who  will  deny  that  this  neo-classicism  owes  Symbolism  however  an 
understanding  of  the  complexity  of  the  world  and  of  the  value  of  lan¬ 
guage  for  musically  transposing  its  mystery,  which  would  be  vainly 


158  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

sought  in  the  masters  of  the  seventeenth  century  ?  It  is  fitting,  finally, 
to  recall  here  that  the  chain  was  not  always  suddenly  broken,  that 
several  great  writers  of  to-day  began  in  the  age  of  Symbolism  the  les¬ 
sons  of  which  have  spared  them  useless  gropings,  that  Andre  Gide  was 
the  friend  of  the  Symbolist  poets,  that  Paul  Claudel  and  Paul  Valery 
have  never  denied  their  debt  of  gratitude  to  Rimbaud  and  Mallarme.1 

i  It  seems  difficult  to  close  this  chapter — which  is,  in  large  part,  that  of  the 
Mercure  de  France — without  recalling  the  effort  of  Jules  de  Gaultier  “to  put  into  the 
hands  of  a  few  an  apparatus  of  mental  optics,”  in  describing  ( De  Kant  a  Nietzsche) 
the  duel  of  the  Vital  Instinct  and  the  Instinct  of  Knowledge,  in  studying,  with 
“Bovarysme,”  “the  power  given  man  to  conceive  himself  other  than  he  is  .  .  .  the 
method  of  inventing  the  real.” 


CHAPTER  VII 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM 

THE  title  of  this  chapter  may  seem  arbitrary.  It  is  merely 
intended  to  give  strong  relief  to  an  incontestable  fact. 
The  French  conscience  was  violently  shaken  during  the  last 
years  of  the  nineteenth  century  and  this  crisis  made  itself  felt  in  our 
literary  history.  Until  then  writers  had,  on  the  whole,  neglected  polit¬ 
ical  propaganda.  Whatever  their  private  preferences,  they  had  not 
undertaken  systematic  criticism  of  the  ideas  which  sprang  from  the 
Revolution  and  to  which,  with  varying  insistence,  different  regimes  laid 
claim  after  1830.  We  have  been  able  to  study  in  Daudet  and  Gon- 
court  two  aspects  of  Naturalism,  in  Kahn  and  Regnier  two  represen¬ 
tatives  of  symbolism,  without  the  examination  of  their  political  and 
religious  convictions  having  to  influence  a  picture  of  their  literary 
activity.  This  attitude  would  be  impossible  in  dealing  with  the  Barres 
of  Les  Deracines,  or  the  France  of  L’Histoire  contemporaine. 

It  must  here  be  recalled  then  that  the  last  teachings  of  Taine  and 
Renan,  the  reawakening  of  mysticism,  the  Boulangist  and  Panamist  agi¬ 
tations  had  concurred  in  disturbing  a  great  number  of  minds  as  to  the 
Value  of  the  revolutionary  ideas  which  had  resulted  in  the  establishment 
of  a  republic  more  and  more  clearly  orientated  towards  democracy  and 
free  thought.  The  Dreyfus  Affair  came  to  offer  those  who  were 
alarmed  at  this  development,  as  well  as  those  who  approved  it,  the  op¬ 
portunity  of  taking  sides  actively  and  combatively:  “This  great  Af¬ 
fair,”  wrote  Maurras  in  the  preface  to  his  Politique  religieuse  (1912) 
“has  really  been  the  soul  and,  so  to  speak,  the  demon  of  our  public  life 
for  the  past  fifteen  years.”  We  shall  not  speak  of  the  writers  who  did 
not  enter  the  struggle  or  who  made  in  it  merely  an  episodical  appear¬ 
ance  of  no  importance  for  the  general  line  of  their  work ;  but  we  shall 
range  here,  in  two  categories  convenient  because  of  their  general  char¬ 
acter,  those  who  henceforward  subordinated  their  creations  to  social 
propagandist  ends. 

1.  COUNTER-REVOLUTION  AND  NATURALISM 

The  first  effect  of  this  crisis  of  conscience  showed  itself  in  notorious 

conversions  to  Catholicism.  We  know  that,  as  early  as  1895,  Huys- 

159 


160  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

mans  was  “ en  route ”  and  that  Coppee  re-entered  the  fold  of  the  Church 
in  1898  after  political  mortifications  and  a  serious  illness.  Brunetiere, 
believing  he  had  proved  “the  bankruptcy  of  science,”  stated  the  prob¬ 
lem  La  Science  et  la  Religion  (1897)  to  solve  it  in  favour  of  the  latter; 
but  the  most  “illustrious  conquest  of  faith,”  the  most  complete  repre¬ 
sentative  of  the  new  doctrine,  is  Paul  Bourget. 

He  has  himself  traced  his  evolution  in  the  preface  to  Pages  de  cri¬ 
tique  et  de  doctrine ,  dedicated  to  Jules  Lemaitre  who  had  abandoned 
Serenus  and  Myrrha  to  fling  himself  into  the  fray:  “This  book  will 
have  an  interest  for  you.  It  reveals  a  line  of  thought  very  analogous 
to  that  which  you  have  yourself  followed.  We  have  both  grown  up  in 
the  atmosphere  and  in  the  spirit  of  the  Revolution  and  we  have  both 
come  to  traditional  conclusions  which  would  have  greatly  astonished 
our  professors.”  The  reason  for  this  reaction  is  that  “the  youth  of 
our  generation  had  received  from  their  elders  two  directing  ideas  about 
which  their  intelligence  was  necessarily  to  reconstruct  the  whole  ap¬ 
paratus  of  French  truths.”  These  two  ideas  are  “the  idea  of  law”  and 
a  “view  of  literature  considered  as  a  living  psychology.”  Taine,  to¬ 
wards  whom  Bourget’s  fidelity  never  flinches,  led  his  disciples,  in  part 
unconsciously,  to  recover  “above,  or  better  below  the  literary  phe¬ 
nomenon,  the  great  laws  of  national  health.”  Bourget  did  not  believe 
that  one  should  state  these  great  laws  in  critical  essays  only  or  in 
prefaces  to  works  little  known  to  his  predecessors.  He  thought  they 
should  be  the  sources  of  the  novelist’s  inspiration.  Adrien  Sixte’s 
prayer  having  been  answered,  ten  years  before  the  publication  of  the 
Pages,  Bourget  had  composed  L’Etape. 

The  spiritual  hero  of  L’Etape,  Victor  Ferrand,  cross-eyed  like  Taine, 
is  moreover  a  “disciple  of  Bonald  and  of  Le  Play  who  remains,  since 
the  death  of  his  elders,  MM.  Olle-Laprune  and  Charpentier,  one  of  the 
most  conspicuous  chiefs  of  the  Catholic  philosophy  in  the  University.” 
He  is  “not  only  a  traditionalist  in  religion.  He  is  one  in  politics 
also  and  does  not  speak  of  the  Revolution  without  employing  Le 
Play’s  formula  on  the  false  dogmas  of  ’89.”  He  proclaims  that  “all 
the  laws  upon  which  we  have  been  living  for  a  hundred  years  are  laws 
of  pride.”  At  the  moment  of  the  Affair,  “his  lucid,  wise  genius” 
ranged  him  in  the  anti-Dreyfus  camp.  The  author  drives  home  his 
charge,  declares  that  “France  is  burying  herself  in  Jacobin  parliamen¬ 
tarism,”  under  the  guidance  of  “those  elected  by  universal  suffrage, 
that  is  to  say,  a  majority  of  charlatans  sprung  from  a  majority  of 
ignoramuses.”  To  the  sophisms  which  engender  anarchy,  he  opposes 
“the  conjunction  of  an  Auguste  Comte  and  of  a  Bonald,  of  a  Taine 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  161 

and  of  a  Joseph  de  Maistre  in  theories  of  government  identical  at 
bottom”  and  also  “the  power  of  total  interpretation  of  human  life 
possessed  by  Catholicism.” 

The  traditionalist  Ferrand,  born  of  a  family  of  rich  Angevin 
landowners,  is  a  professor  of  philosophy,  occupies  a  fine  apartment  in 
the  Rue  de  Tournon  and  his  daughter  possesses  all  the  feminine  vir¬ 
tues.  The  Jacobin  Monneron,  son  of  a  poor  farmer  of  Quintenas  in 
Ardeche,  is  a  professor  of  rhetoric,  inhabits  a  horrible  building  in  the 
Rue  Claude-Bernard.  His  daughter  lets  herself  be  seduced.  The  eld¬ 
est  of  his  three  sons  is  a  forger,  the  second  a  blackguard  and  the 
only  one  who  remains  honest  aspires  to  conversion.  The  difference 
between  these  two  families  Victor  Ferrand  thus  explains  to  Jean  Mon¬ 
neron:  “Your  grandfather  and  your  father  believed  it  was  possible  to 
bruler  Vet  ape.  It  is  not.”  The  whole  novel  is  devoted  to  this  prac¬ 
tical  demonstration,  destined  to  illustrate  the  truth  that  one  should 
not  talk  of  reconciling  Catholicism,  Science  and  Democracy,  as  if  the 
last  two  terms  were  on  one  side,  the  first  on  the  other.  Quite  the  con¬ 
trary  it  is  the  first  two  terms  which  are  on  one  side  and  it  is  the  last 
which  is  on  the  other.” 

What  remains  of  L’Etape  and  its  successors,  Un  Divorce  and 
L’Emigre,  in  which  Bourget  continued  to  put  his  talent  at  the  service 
of  his  social  convictions?  He  has  not  succeeded  in  constructing  the 
ambitious  synthesis  he  attempted.  The  most  rapid  analysis  shows  the 
arbitrary  element  in  L’Etape.  In  spite  of  an  evident  effort  at  im¬ 
partiality  to  which  credit  should  be  given,  Bourget  cannot  forget  the 
party  spirit  which  renders  the  character  of  the  father  Monneron  so 
inconceivably  grotesque  in  certain  places  and  which  urges  the  author 
to  accuse  his  adversaries  of  treating  their  contradictors  like  “common 
malefactors”  on  the  very  page  where  he  has  just  insulted  the  revolu¬ 
tionary  Chamfort.  If  we  are  authorized  to  infer  from  the  Monneron 
case  that  a  Jacobin  orator  will  always  marry  the  first  girl  he  meets, 
will  his  enemies  have  the  right  to  draw  from  the  Ferrand  example  the 
general  conclusion  that  Providence  renders  Christian  philosophers 
widowers  early  enough  for  their  daughters’  education  to  benefit  by  it? 
L’Etape  suffers  from  this  confusion  between  the  sermon  and  the  work 
of  art.  It  is  often  very  tiresome,  the  studious  heaviness  of  the 
sociologist  being  still  further  weighted  by  an  obstinate  desire  for  de¬ 
scriptions  of  soul-states,  of  streets,  of  furniture  wherein  Bourget  un¬ 
dertakes  to  reconcile,  under  the  asgis  of  Bonald,  the  opposite  manners 
of  Stendhal  and  Balzac.  He  succeeds  so  well  that,  when  the  reader 
finishes  this  luxuriant  book  in  which  he  has  gone  hurriedly  through  the 


162  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

passages  considered  essential  by  Bourget,  he  carries  away,  with  the 
memory  of  some  episodical  characters  rather  delicately  drawn,  the 
impression  of  a  solidly  constructed  melodrama. 

This  tendency  of  Bourget’s  ideas  to  express  themselves  scenically 
has  led  him  to  the  theatre  which  he  has  furnished,  in  addition  to  an 
adaptation  of  Un  Divorce,  with  original  plays,  the  Sorelian  Barricade 
and  Le  Tribun.  As  indicated  by  their  subtitles,  these  “chronicles  of 
1910  and  1911”  aim  at  painting  the  social  movement  of  our  epoch; 
but  the  form  excluded  those  long  analyses  in  which  Bourget  has  de¬ 
lighted  throughout  his  work,  and  he  came  back  to  the  novel  in  Le 
Demon  de  midi  (1914),  his  best  book  since  Le  Disciple.  In  this 
ample  fresco  of  contemporary  life,  where  modernist  silhouettes  mingle 
with  our  old  friends,  Cremieu-Dax  and  Abbe  Chanut,  he  has  sought  less 
the  triumph  of  the  ideas  in  favour  of  which  the  novelist  remains  always 
suspect  of  having  falsified  the  normal  development  of  the  beings  he 
imagines.  He  has  energetically  represented  two  forms  of  “the  aberra¬ 
tion  of  middle  life,  of  the  noonday  demon”  in  an  action  where  psy¬ 
chology  and  religious  experience  unite  naturally,  in  a  soul  crisis  en¬ 
hanced  by  an  intellectual  and  dramatic  interest.  Doubtless  even  in 
this  last  book  will  be  found  the  rather  conventional  phrases  whereby 
Bourget’s  aristocratic  admirations  express  themselves  sincerely  and 
also  that  demonstrative  apparatus  which  weighs  down  all  his  crea¬ 
tions  by  substituting  for  the  spontaneous  play  of  life  an  activity  too 
conscientiously  commentated  not  at  times  to  be  dampened  by  it ;  but 
the  noble  figures  of  Louis  Savignan,  of  Genevieve  Calvieres  and  of  the 
Abbot  Fauchon  dominate  the  moving  tragedy  of  their  destinies  and 
justify  the  lofty  human  lesson  which  Bourget  draws  from  the  ruin  of 
their  ephemeral  happiness :  “One  must  live  as  one  thinks ;  if  not, 
sooner  or  later,  one  ends  by  thinking  as  one  has  lived.”  Neither  his 
war  novels,  rather  cheaply  pathetic,  nor  L’EcuyZre  which  should  have 
remained  a  serial  and  never  become  a  book,  have  added  anything  to 
the  solid  reputation  of  the  author  of  Le  Demon  de  midi. 

For  those  who  went  no  farther  than  the  external  aspect  of  his  work, 
Barres  would,  after  1897,  have  been  one  of  the  chiefs  of  conservative 
doctrinairism.  We  have  already  indicated  on  his  own  authority  the 
itinerary  which  led  him  from  “The  dead  poison  us!”  of  L'Ennemi  des 
lois  to  the  capital  affirmation  of  U  Appel  an  soldat:  “Every  living  be¬ 
ing  is  born  of  a  race,  a  soil,  an  atmosphere,  and  genius  manifests  itself 
as  such  only  in  proportion  as  it  is  closely  linked  with  its  land  and  its 
dead.”  The  three  volumes  of  Le  Roman  de  Venergie  nationale  involve, 
among  other  things,  the  adventures  of  seven  young  Lorrains  uprooted 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  163 

by  the  false  university  culture.  They  also  describe  the  general  un¬ 
easiness  and  the  disorders  of  a  France  no  longer  submitted  to  the 
“national  instinct.”  The  “nationalistic  socialism”  which  Barres  had 
formerly  associated  with  his  Boulangism  did  not  withstand  events. 
The  Dreyfus  affair  cast  him  among  the  conservatives  on  whom  he 
pretended  to  have  forced  the  role  Disraeli  had  made  the  Tories  play. 
Rooted  in  his  Lorraine  he  wrote  Les  Amities  frangaises,  his  national¬ 
istic  Emile  and  Les  Bastions  de  VEst.  In  Au  Service  de  V Allemagne, 
the  Alsatian  Ehrmann,  “advance-guard  of  the  Latin  race,”  resisted 
the  temptation  to  desert  his  post  and  defended  French  honour  even 
in  the  German  barracks.  The  Metz  girl,  Colette  Baudoche ,  triumphed 
in  a  subtler  episode  of  the  same  struggle  against  the  invader.  Barres’ 
name  had  become  as  closely  associated  as  Deroulede’s  with  the  idea  of 
the  “revanche.” 

By  1900  he  had  formulated  all  the  dogmas  of  traditionalism,  said 
that  “society  was  beautiful  only  when  it  opposed  nature,”  called  in¬ 
telligence — “that  very  little  thing  on  the  surface  of  ourselves” — im¬ 
potent,  given  a  long  lesson  of  return  to  the  land  and  to  the  dead  in 
“the  Valley  of  the  Moselle.”  He  had  scoffed  at  parliamentarism  and 
recognized  that  “Catholicism  is  above  all  a  maker  of  order.”  Noth¬ 
ing  should  then,  in  appearance,  be  easier  than  to  represent  him,  like 
Bourget  or  Maurras,  in  the  reflective  attitude  he  had  chosen  and 
sanctioned  by  years  of  political  action.  That  such  a  portrait  is  im¬ 
possible  proves  at  once  the  originality  of  his  thought  and  his  real 
greatness  as  an  artist. 

Barres  has  shown  us  very  abundantly  that  his  nationalism  was  the 
consequence  of  his  first  individualism.  He  would  not  refuse  us  the 
right  to  stress  what  remains  of  this  individualism  in  his  traditional¬ 
ism.  Like  M.  Taine’s  plane-tree,  “he  was  his  own  law  and  he  made  it 
bloom.”  He  sought  “a  method  that  each  may  create  himself.”  He 
defined  Napoleon  as  “a  method  in  the  service  of  a  passion.”  The 
professor  of  energy  continued  the  task  of  the  “intercessors.”  Andre 
Gide  has  delicately  indicated  that  the  word  “ deracine ”  has  never  had 
the  meaning  Barres  lent  it  and  that  his  book  can  be  summed  up  thus: 
“Uprooting  compelling  Racadot  to  be  original” — reproaches  which 
hit  the  logician  but  hardly  touch  the  writer  whose  real  aim  doubtless 
was  to  awaken  in  his  soul  “those  incomparable  exaltations  which  be¬ 
come,  after  thirty,  the  privilege  of  a  few  royal  natures.”  Like  his 
Sturel,  he  had  a  taste  for  harshness.  He  was  “a  force  which  desires 
to  exhaust  itself.”  His  violence  saw  in  woman  less  love  than  “a 
difficulty  to  overcome” ;  but  his  refinement  was  touched  by  “a  life  des¬ 
tined  so  quickly  to  come  undone”  and  aspired  to  “be  drunk  with  dis- 


164  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

illusion.”  He  transported  this  imaginative  disposition  into  abstract 
thought,  intoxicating  himself  with  a  “metaphysical  emotion  so  volup¬ 
tuously  fantastic,”  proclaiming  that  “an  intellectual,  eager  for  all 
the  savours  of  life,  is  the  true  hero.”  In  the  social  struggle  he 
satisfied,  first  and  foremost,  “the  needs  of  his  partisan  soul,”  found 
love  “insipid  compared  with  the  alcohol  of  a  conspiracy,”  passed 
almost  indifferently  from  excessive  friendship  to  excessive  hate  and, 
if  he  devoted  a  big  book  to  the  memory  of  a  somewhat  paltry  chief, 
may  it  not  still  be  that,  “the  most  subjective  of  men,  he  would  inter¬ 
est  in  himself  in  favour  of  those  rare  persons  only  with  whom  he  be¬ 
lieved  he  had  obscure  relations”? 

Let  us  take  care  however  not  to  identify  Barres  with  Francis 
Sturel.  In  the  trilogy  where  he  reserved  the  possibility  of  exterioriz¬ 
ing  himself  in  seven  different  characters,  he  has  at  least  divided  him¬ 
self  in  two.  Roemerspacher  represents  faithfully  enough  what  Barres 
might  have  become  had  he  not  borne  within  him  Sturel’s  feverish  soul, 
had  he  never  looked  at  himself  with  other  eyes — sometimes  even  those 
of  Racadot  despising  that  comrade  who  “needs  Taine  to  appreciate 
the  egotisms  and  the  wastefulness  of  the  social  system.”  If  Saint- 
Phlin  is  the  pure  Lorrain,  Roemerspacher  is  the  Lorrain  sufficiently 
penetrated  with  Germanic  culture  to  render  Germany  a  conscientious 
homage  and  not  to  see  in  M.  Asmu  exclusively  a  pretext  for  carica¬ 
ture.  It  is  Roemerspacher  who,  amid  the  frantic  route  of  Leurs  Fig¬ 
ures,  inspires  Barres  with  his  powerful  evocation  of  the  Goethean 
Mothers.  He  reminds  him  of  the  existence  in  Bouteiller  of  a  “reason, 
impersonal  as  it  were,  which  nobly  distinguishes  him”  from  Sturel 
and  Suret-Lefort.  Incapable  of  the  eloquent  meditation  upon  the 
motif  Pax  aut  Bellum  in  La  Grande  Pitie  des  eglises  de  France,  he 
has  nevertheless  rendered  it  possible  by  his  disciplined  effort.  With 
everything  symbolized  by  Sturel  are  on  the  contrary  connected 
Barres’  impertinent  pirouettes — for  example  the  epigram  on  Bou¬ 
langer:  “A  general  whose  French  character  was  so  beloved  by  the 
people  they  would  have  wished  him  Spanish” ;  the  perfidious  notice 
in  the  Scenes  et  Doctrines  de  nationalisms  showing  Le  Play,  Taine 
and  certain  of  their  disciples  “more  or  less  disgusted  with  their  coun¬ 
try,”  or  this  disconcertingly  loyal  confession :  “Had  I  thought  the 
world  as  I  have  thought  Lorraine,  I  should  really  be  a  citizen  of  hu¬ 
manity.”  It  is  easy  to  understand  that  the  publication,  as  an  ap¬ 
pendix  to  several  of  Barres’  works,  of  those  certificates  of  good 
conduct  constituted  by  Bourget’s  letters,  has  not  been  totally  use¬ 
less  in  reassuring  simple  souls. 

-To  the  nervous  instability  of  the  doctrinaire  corresponds  an 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  165 

inequality  of  artistic  execution.  Barres’  novels  contain  a  desultory 
element  not  denied  by  his  most  fervent  admirers.  The  theoretical  ex¬ 
positions,  the  explanatory  commentaries  and  the  cantilenas  perpet¬ 
ually  interrupt  the  narration  of  the  events.  Now  and  then  he  delib¬ 
erately  refuses  to  compose.  He  gives  his  notes  on  the  seven  Lorrains 
or  on  the  biography  of  Portalis.  He  transcribes  the  sentiments  of 
Routeiller  and  of  Sturel  in  two  parallel  columns.  The  story  of 
Astine  Aravian  is  disappointingly  commonplace.  It  is  but  too  evi¬ 
dent  that  Barres  is  interested  only  in  the  lyric  exaltation  aroused 
in  Sturel  by  magic  syllables.  We  find  here  once  more  the  evidence 
that  things  are  of  value  in  his  eyes  only  as  stimulants  to  his  imagina¬ 
tion.  His  invention  is  weak.  He  must  touch  beings,  “handle”  them, 
he  would  say,  to  describe  them  well.  His  art  always  has  something 
of  the  grapple  about  it,  whether  he  is  following  Bouteiller  among 
his  pupils  upon  whom  he  lavishes  such  different  farewell  counsels,  bath¬ 
ing  the  figure  of  Waldeck-Rousseau  with  dry  irony,  spying  on  Briand 
at  the  tribune  or  on  Caillaux  before  the  Commission  of  Inquiry, 
painting  in  Taine  “the  animal”  inhabited  by  philosophic  thought, 
tracking  the  agony  of  Baron  de  Reinach,  offering  history  a  breathless 
picture  of  the  grandiose  parliamentary  corrida  of  1892.  There  are 
touches  of  Michelet  and  of  Saint-Simon  in  the  frescoes  of  Leurs 
Figures.  Stendhal  and  Balzac  are  not  absent  from  the  magnificent, 
exalted  chapters  describing  the  pilgrimage  to.  the  Emperor’s  tomb 
and  Hugo’s  funeral  in  Les  Deracines.  Whoever  wants  to  know  the 
somewhat  affected  simplicity  of  Barres  should  read  Colette  Baudoche 
in  which  a  delicate  young  girl  of  Metz  is  cleverly  raised  to  the  rank 
of  the  heroines :  “Little  girl  of  my  country,  I  have  not  even  said  you 
were  beautiful ;  and  yet,  if  I  have  been  true,  direct,  some,  I  believe, 
will  love  you  no  less  than  those  immortalized  by  an  amorous  adventure.” 
The  amateur  of  strong  constructions  will  find  satisfaction  in  La  Colline 
inspiree,  Barres’  most  classically  perfect  work,  with  its  story  nobly 
ordered  between  two  grave  meditations ;  but  whoever  wishes  to  attain 
what  ultimately  differentiates  this  art  from  any  other,  should  turn  to 
“the  mysterious  evening  at  Billancourt”  where  the  drama  is  charged 
with  ideas  and  with  that  cruel  voluptuousness  which  is  perhaps  Barres’ 
strongest  sentiment. 

Certain  writers  have  celebrated  life,  others  death.  His  special  do¬ 
main  is  the  agony  of  that  mystic  life,  intellectual  or  sensual,  which 
gives  of  it  the  prolonged  spectacle.  This  taste,  so  manifest  in  Dib 
Sang ,  de  la  Volupte  et  de  la  Mort,  he  has  expressed  again  in  Amori  et 
Dolori  sacrum,  Le  Voyage  de  Sparte  and  Le  Greco,  books  a  little  aside 
from  his  work,  in  which  he  did  not  pretend  that  all  his  ordinary  read- 


166  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

ers  should  follow  him.  Amori  de  Dolori  sacrum  “belongs,”  he  says, 
“to  the  same  vein  as  Du  Sang.  .  .  The  latter,  in  any  event,  seems  to 
me  heavier  in  the  hand  and  more  learned  for  the  ear  than  my  1895  vol¬ 
ume.”  ...  In  it  he  tells  again  the  death  of  Venice,  “the  song  of  a 
beauty  going  to  meet  death” ;  for  “this  extended  agony  is  the  strongest 
charm  of  Venice  to  seduce  me.”  In  decribing  that  city  haunted  by  so 
many  romantic  phantoms,  his  object  is  not  “to  paint  stones,  water, 
clouds  directly,  but  to  render  intelligible  the  indefinable  states  which  the 
malaria  of  this  romantic  ruin  induces  in  us.”  His  ambition  is  to  touch 
“some  extreme  points  of  sensibility.”  He  pretends  to  offer  ‘‘the  happy 
few”  “a  Venice  on  fire”  and  doubtless  was  never  more  sincere  than  at 
this  moment  of  his  highest  virtuosity.  For  he  does  not  give  way:  “I 
am  not  unaware  of  the  romanticism  which  such  an  emotional  state  sup¬ 
poses  ;  but  precisely  we  wish  to  regulate  it.”  It  is  significant  that 
Amori  et  Dolori  sacrum  should  end  on  “November  2  in  Lorraine”  where 
he  declares  he  prefers  to  “the  famous  desolations”  sung  by  him, 
the  modest  Lorraine  cemetery  where  “my  profound  consciousness  lies 
outspread  before  me.” 

The  same  frankness  is  the  strength  of  Le  Voyage  de  S parte.  He 
landed  in  Greece  without  shedding  his  individualism.  The  punishment 
was  inevitable:  “Wherever  I  am,  I  am  ill  at  ease  if  I  have  not  a 
point  of  view  whence  the  details  subordinate  themselves  to  each  other 
and  whence  the  ensemble  harmonizes  with  my  former  acquisitions.”  He 
is  disappointed  by  the  “hard  perfection”  of  the  Acropolis.  He  suc¬ 
ceeds  in  understanding  the  art  of  Phidias  only  by  analysing  intellec¬ 
tually  the  “vcrCs”  of  Anaxagoras.  He  admits  loyally :  “If  Goethe  had 
not  prepared  me  by  his  commentary  on  Spinoza,  I  should  have  nothing 
living  in  me  with  which  to  connect  the  thought  of  Phidias :  a  Jew  and  a 
German  are  my  intermediate  links.”  For  a  moment  he  becomes  en¬ 
thusiastic  over  “the  burning  bush  in  the  midst  of  the  gardens  of 
Sparta.”  The  divorce  is  none  the  less  patent  however.  Greece  holds 
his  reason  alone.  She  sends  him  back  to  his  Lorraine,  laying  bare  the 
intimate  secret  of  his  creative  art :  “Even  after  the  classical  lesson,  I 
shall  continue  to  produce  a  romantic  art  contracting  and  rending  the 
heart.”  His  old  love  of  Toledo  and  “the  close  kinship  between  the 
work  of  a  Tintoretto  and  the  work  of  a  Greco”  suggest  to  him  a  book 
on  this  strangely  mystical  painting.  The  year  following  appeared  La 
Colline  inspiree  which  is,  in  a  Lorraine  setting,  on  his  acropolis, 
Sion-Vaudemont,  the  history  of  one  of  those  “famous  desolations”  so 
dear  to  him.  Perhaps,  while  writing  it,  he  experienced  a  pacifying  har¬ 
mony  and  the  illusion  of  resurrecting  in  himself  that  regretted  past 
“where  men  had  romantic  souls  with  a  classic  discipline.” 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  167 

The  war  came.  To  realize  his  dream  as  patriot  and  poet,  it  should 
have  been  short  and  brilliant.  It  was  long  and  patient.  Amid  that 
frightful  carnage  the  voluptuous  cruelties  of  the  partisan  would  have 
seemed  sacrilegious.  This  is  perceived  in  comparing  En  regardant  le 
fond  des  crevasses  with  Leurs  Figures  or  Dans  le  cloaque.  Barres 
wished  to  serve  effectively.  He  devoted  himself  exclusively  to  prop¬ 
aganda  and  journalism.  The  numerous  volumes  of  L’Ame  franqaise 
pendant  la  guerre  bear  witness  to  this  activity ;  but  the  romantic 
voices  were  not  dead  in  this  soul  and,  in  1922,  he  gave  us  Un  Jardin  sur 
I’Oronte,  a  “story  of  gold,  of  silver  and  of  azure,”  with  his  voluptuous 
“orchestration  of  complaint,  of  tears  and  of  extravagance,”  with  the 
old  nostalgic  appeal:  “To  what  genius  are  addressed  the  disquietudes 
stirred  in  our  conscience  by  a  setting  so  poor  and  so  strong?  What 
is  it  I  love  in  Syria  and  what  is  it  I  wish  to  find  there?”  What  this 
new  Tristan  et  I  sent  wishes  to  find  in  Syria  with  streaming  wheels  is  all 
the  poetry  sketched  in  the  story  of  Astine.  Oriante  is  a  true  daughter 
of  Barres.  Her  secret  is  simply  “the  courageous  will  to  live  in  ac¬ 
cepting  the  conditions  of  life.”  Oriante  (whose  “friendship  remained 
firm  beneath  the  mobile  wave,  but  she  welcomed  all  the  sea,”)  proposes 
to  us,  once  more,  that  high  ideal  of  art  and  of  life — to  keep  one’s 
reason  lucid  amid  the  most  exalted  passion — whereby  Barres,  great 
writer,  will  remain  in  addition  an  “intercessor”  for  all  those  who, 
seeking  a  discipline,  will  deserve  to  create  it  themselves,  following  his 
example. 

In  Amori  et  Dolori  Barres  congratulates  Charles  Maurras  on 
having  already,  in  1890,  written  these  lines :  “The  whole  world 
would  be  less  good  if  it  involved  a  smaller  number  of  mysterious  victims 
sacrificed  to  its  perfection.  Victim  or  not,  each  of  us,  when  he  is 
wise  and  sees  that  nothing  is,  if  it  is  not  in  the  common  order,  renders 
thanks  for  the  form  in  which  his  fate  is  clad,  whatever  it  may  be.  He 
pities  alone  the  turbulent  fools  whose  formless  destiny  drags  them  away 
to  the  infinite  flux.”  In  1894,  the  preface  to  Le  Chemin  de  Paradis 
permitted  Maurras  to  specify  the  evil  from  which  his  epoch  suffered: 
“It  is  never  questions  to-day  of  anything  but  Sentiments.  Women, 
so  harassed  and  humiliated  by  our  customs,  have  avenged  themselves 
by  communicating  their  nature  to  us.  Everything  has  become  effem¬ 
inate,  from  the  mind  to  love.”  Here  we  already  have  the  Maurras  of 
Le  Romantisme  feminin,  an  “allegory  of  disordered  sentiment”  in  the 
form  of  a  critical  study  on  four  “gentle  woman-headed  monsters” — 
the  Maurras  who,  judging  Sand  and  Musset  in  Les  Amants  de  Venise, 
declares  that  “to  love  well,  one  must  not  love  love.  It  is  even  impor- 


168  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

tant  to  feel  some  hatred  for  it.”  With  the  romantic  disorder  this 
youthful  Maurras  already  associated  philosophic  disorder :  “I  have 
a  special  horror  for  the  last  Germans.  The  Infinite !  as  they  say. 
The  sentiment  of  the  Infinite!  These  absurd  sounds  and  these  shame¬ 
ful  forms  should  be  enough  in  themselves  to  lead  to  the  re-establishment 
of  the  beautiful  idea  of  the  Finite.”  Let  us  recognize  here  the  voice 
which  was  to  formulate,  in  V. Action  francaise  et  la  Religion  catholique, 
this  sharp  distinction:  “In  aesthetics,  in  politics,  I  have  known  the  joy 
of  seizing,  in  their  high  evidence,  some  matrix-ideas.  In  pure  philos¬ 
ophy,  no.”  In  brutal  contradiction  with  “the  insensate  desire  to  ele¬ 
vate  all  human  life  to  the  paroxysm,”  he  wrote  the  nine  stories  of  Le 
Chemin:  “I  have  dared  evoke,  in  the  presence  of  a  thousand  errors, 
the  finished  types  of  Reason,  of  Beauty  and  of  Death,  triple  and  unique 
end  of  the  world.”  These  tales,  in  a  hammered  prose,  recall  Maurras’ 
brief  sojourn,  between  France  and  Barres,  at  the  crossing  of  two  very 
dissimilar  arts.  When  he  revised  them  twenty-five  years  after  their 
publication,  he  did  not  deem  them  contrary  to  his  general  teaching. 
It  is  true  he  suppressed  La  Bonne  Mort  and  rendered  Les  deux  Testa¬ 
ments  de  Simplice  unintelligible ;  but  he  did  not  alter  that  pagan  and 
aristocratic  conception  of  human  life  which  inspired  them  all  and 
justified  the  poem  inscribed  by  Anatole  France  on  the  pediment  of  this 
temple.  The  happiest  expression  of  Maurras’  deep-seated  paganism 
is  the  fable  of  Crito’s  Serviteurs  who,  in  the  Elysian  Fields,  refuse  to 
return  to  a  barbarous  Athens  where  absurdity  reigns  as  master,  where 
the  Hebrew  Christ  has  triumphed  over  the  Hellenic  hierarchy. 

Antliinea  shows  at  what  sources  Maurras  renewed  his  strength.  He 
set  out  for  Athens  as  for  “a  lovers’  tryst.”  He  experienced  no  disap¬ 
pointment,  nothing  but  confirmation  and  exaltation  of  his  reasons  for 
living  and  thinking.  Athens  strengthened  his  hatred  of  democracy  and 
of  vagrant  romanticism.  She  revealed  to  him  “the  great  secret  which 
is  nothing  but  being  natural  while  becoming  perfect.”  At  the  same 
time  she  refined  his  sense  of  dialectics  and  purged  his  mind  of  the  cloudy 
theories  on  progress  by  confirming  there  the  idea  of  a  “point  of  per¬ 
fection.”  The  Acropolis  fired  him  with  a  “lyric  madness”  which  he  has 
described  in  eloquent  pages.  The  masterpieces  filled  him  with  “a  living 
and  fertile  admiration” :  “This  young  goddess,  the  headless,  wingless 
Victory  who  flies  rather  than  runs  even  as  she  fastens  her  sandal,  bears 
on  the  waves  of  her  spreading  robe  the  greatest  lessons  of  style,  that  is 
to  say  of  measure  and  of  enthusiasm.”  Athenes  antique  which  joins  to 
the  Greek  part  of  Antliinea  the  chapter  on  Hymettus  taken  from 
Quand  les  Frangais  ne  s’aimaient  pas  and  the  invocation  to  Minerva 
(“What  do  we  ask  of  thee?  Measure  of  the  soul,  0  cadence  of  the 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  169 

Universe!”)  remains,  from  a  strictly  literary  point  of  view,  Charles 
Maurras’  most  harmonious  work. 

Must  it  be  regretted,  since  this  happy  balance  between  meditation 
and  action  could  not  last,  that  Maurras  did  not  become  a  Mistral  of 
French  prose,  dreaming  of  Greek  beauty  in  the  landscape  of  L’Etang 
de  Berre,  “on  a  hillside  crowned  with  a  mill  which  has  ceased 
to  grind”?  L’Etang  de  Marthe  et  les  Hauteurs  d’ Aristarche  answers 
us.  In  Maurras’  country,  in  1801,  some  fishermen  found  a  marble 
tablet  recalling  the  memory  of  Aristarche,  a  noble  lady  of  Ephesus 
(an  Athenian  Colony,  the  writer  reminds  us).  She  landed  in  Gaul, 
obeying  a  dream,  with  the  navigators  from  Phocoea  (another  Athenian 
colony),  bringing  the  statue  of  her  goddess  Diana  with  her;  but 
Martigue  derives  its  name  from  the  Syrian  Martha,  an  actress  and  a 
witch.  This  protegee  of  Marius’  personifies  all  the  dissolvent  Asiatic 
influences  saved  by  Rome,  to  her  shame,  at  the  same  time  as,  to  her 
honour,  she  preserved  pure  Hellenism.  This  opposition  directs 
Maurras’  thought.  It  is  not  far,  at  times,  from  suggesting  to  him  a 
vision  of  the  world  as  antithetical  as  Hugo’s.  For,  as  he  has  said, 
“the  philosophic  and  {esthetic  theories  of  Anthinea  form  the  very  basis 
of  my  politics” ;  and,  for  twenty-five  years,  the  watchword  of  his  life 
has  been  “Politics  first!”  From  the  conflict  between  Martha  and 
Aristarche  he  has  concluded  that  “no  origin  is  beautiful.  True 
beauty  is  at  the  end  of  things” — a  theoretic  principle  whence  flows  im¬ 
mediately  this  practical  consequence :  one  must  not  remain  “reduced  to 
the  poor  centre  of  one’s  individuality.”  In  the  introduction  to  the 
new  edition  of  Le  Chemin  (1920),  Maurras  has  said  how  inevitable  this 
duty  had  appeared  to  him:  “Our  grandparents  had  taken  a  profound 
pleasure  in  destroying.  The  sweetness  and  the  majesty  of  the  lost 
past  were  more  or  less  felt  by  our  fathers.  Reconstruction  appeared 
to  interest  our  elders.  The  conservative  truth  took  shape  more  dis¬ 
tinctly  in  our  eyes.  We  had  to  serve  it  in  fact  if  we  did  not  wish  to 
ruin  our  life.” 

He  will  then  reply  to  the  regrets  of  the  artist  that  he  has  not 
ruined  his  life.  He  has  sharply  denounced  every  force  of  disorder 
in  contemporary  society :  Romanticism  in  the  manner  of  Chateau¬ 
briand  who  “incarnates  above  all  the  genius  of  revolutions” ;  the  Jew 
“become  a  revolutionary  agent” ;  the  protestant  heir  of  Rousseau  and 
Kant;  the  Jacobin  individualist  against  whom  must  be  turned  the 
Contr’Un  of  the  sixteenth  century  in  order  to  oppose  the  declaration 
of  the  rights  of  man  with  the  declaration  of  the  duties  of  man  in 
society;  finally  democracy  which,  whether  conservative  or  anarch¬ 
istic  republic,  is  equally  incapable  of  continuity  in  the  foreign 


170  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

policy  demanded  by  the  author  of  Kiel  et  Tanger.  Over  against 
these  “clouds,”  he  has  reared  anew  the  essential  truths ;  and 
first  of  all,  “the  greatest  of  natural  realities,  the  goddess  France.” 
Love  of  his  country,  his  desire  to'  assure  her  discipline  and  stability, 
has  led  him  to  “integral  nationalism,”  that  is  to  say  royalism.  His 
eloquent  daily  preaching  has  rallied  round  him  young  and  enthusiastic 
devotees,  sensitive  above  all  perhaps  to  this  “delight  in  doing  something 
difficult  but  great”  to  which  L’Enquete  sur  la  monarchic  invited  them. 
Had  not  the  intellectual  passion  for  order  led  their  chief  to  pardon 
the  Oriental  errors  of  ancient  Rome  because  of  Hellenism  saved  by  her ; 
to  forget  the  Jewish  Old  Testament  kept  by  modern  Rome  among  her 
sacred  books ;  no  longer  to  see  in  her  anything  but  the  guardian  of  a 
religious  tradition  marvellously  compatible  with  the  idea  of  a  well- 
ordered  State;  to  make  finally  this  profession  of  faith,  at  once  para¬ 
doxical  and  profoundly  true:  “I  am  a  Roman  by  virtue  of  all  that  is 
positive  in  my  being”? 

In  choosing  to  become  a  dialectician  instead  of  the  story-teller  and 
the  critic  he  seemed  to  promise,  Maurras  did  not,  however,  forsake  his 
dear  Athens.  Thibaudet  has  subtly  indicated  the  parallelism  between 
his  Enquete  and  a  certain  discourse  of  Nicocles  in  Isocrates.  Maurras 
would  doubtless  prefer  to  have  the  Socrates  of  the  dialogues  evoked 
in  his  connection;  but  his  adversaries  will  object  that  he  lacks  the 
supreme  ease  of  his  predecessors  in  maieutics,  that  he  undertakes  to 
study  Dante  with  the  too  evident  intention  of  discovering  in  him  “a 
useful  lesson  of  anti-romantic  truth,”  that  U  Avenir  de  V intelligence, 
a  summary  of  the  diverse  conditions  of  the  man  of  letters  for  three 
centuries,  proclaims  too  visibly  its  aim  to  persuade  the  champions 
of  intelligence  that  “all  hopes  float  on  the  ship  of  a  counter¬ 
revolution.”  We  think  of  Daniel  Halevy’s  judgment:  “Maurras  is 
a  Mediterranean  man,  a  tragic.  His  mind  conceives  distinct  forms  ter¬ 
minated  by  death.”  The  number  and  the  necessity  of  the  appendices 
in  each  of  his  books  testify  to  the  difficulty  of  incorporating  certain 
heterogeneous  elements  in  his  spontaneous  thought.  “An  orthodox 
Comtist  and  an  honorary  Catholic,”  according  to  Thibaudet’s  pretty 
definition,  he  has  well  described  his  personal  attitude  in  the  portrait 
of  Charles  Jundzill:  “Not  only  did  his  mind  not  miss  God,  but  his 
mind  felt,  if  it  may  be  thus  expressed,  a  rigorous  need  to  miss 
God .”  Reasons  of  statesmanship  decided  him  to  seek  again  alliance 
with  the  Catholicism  which,  honestly  though  subtly,  he  denies  having 
attacked  in  Les  Serviteurs.  He  objects  only  “to  the  inner  Christ  of 
the  folks  of  the  Reformation,”  and  he  adds:  “I  shall  not  leave  this 
learned  procession  of  the  Councils,  of  the  Popes  and  of  all  the  great 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  171 

men  of  the  modern  elite,  to  trust  to  the  Gospels  of  four  obscure  Jews.” 
This  argument  of  an  outside  apologist  has  not  convinced  all  Catholics. 
Many  of  them  here  think  less  of  Socrates  than  of  one  of  those  Sophists 
of  whom  Socrates  was  the  rival  and,  from  a  certain  point  of  view,  the 
disloyal  competitor. 

Maurras  has  been  accused  of  coldness.  He  has  protested  ve¬ 
hemently  :  “Let  us  leave  these  poor,  inevitable  cavillers  to  imagine 
we  dream  of  a  universal  and  barbarous  reign  of  Logic.”  He  means  to 
temper  his  logic  “with  judgment”  and  “with  the  trained  sentiment  of 
beauty,  of  order  and  of  the  poetry  of  the  laws,  of  their  humanity,  of 
their  ineffable  charity.”  According  to  him,  in  the  Divine  Comedy 
“sensibility,  saved  from  itself  and  conducted  into  order,  became  a 
principle  of  perfection.”  He  loves  to  bend  over  concrete  reality,  to 
the  extent  of  interrupting  an  article  on  Bolshevism  to  congratulate  Lo- 
riot  upon  his  pretty  name,  so  thoroughly  French — of  adding,  for  the 
needs  of  his  polemics,  some  surnames  without  amenity  to  those  Leon 
Daudet  furnishes  him  inexhaustibly.  However  he  reveals  to  us,  in  the 
preface  to  Le  Chemin,  an  extraordinary  logician’s  distinction,  a  chain 
forged  by  himself  of  which  he  long  remained  prisoner,  between  the  prose 
which  to  him  “appeared  naturally  charged  with  designing  the  material 
aspect  of  the  world  as  much  as  with  defining  the  divine  ideas”  and  the 
verse  to  which  alone  “belonged  the  privilege  of  expressing  pain  or  an¬ 
guish,  the  secrets  of  sentiment.”  Barres  cured  him  of  this  error;  and 
if  there  were  occasion  to  make  a  similar  division  of  his  work,  we  should 
be  inclined  to  think  there  is  much  less  emotion  in  the  rhymed  Inscrip¬ 
tions  of  this  friend  of  Moreas  than  in  certain  pages  of  his  prose.  It 
is  false  that  Maurras  is  cold.  It  is  true  he  is  passionate — for  ex¬ 
ample  this  stanza  from  Destinee: 

Et  tu  sens  dans  la  flamme  torse 
De  tous  tes  vceux  les  plus  distincts 
Lutter  le  Soir  et  le  Matin 
Et  le  reve  etreindre  la  force. 

This  passion,  however,  bears  upon  intellectual  objects  only.  By 
which  we  do  not  mean  to  depreciate  the  man  who  has  adorned  conserva¬ 
tism  with  a  virile  poetry.  For  “to  maintain  is  to  create.  It  is  also  to 
preserve  for  future  creations  the  starting-point  and  the  foundation 
worthy  of  them.”  He  has  been  able,  by  evoking  these  ideas,  to  equal 
the  masculine  formulas  he  admires  in  Auguste  Comte  and  Pierre 
Corneille:  “The  good  he  wishes  is  that!  of  the  intelligence,  and  then 
the  good  of  the  commonwealth.”  He  has,  in  speaking  of  his  intellectual 


172  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

guides,  tender  delicacies :  “If  Dante  is  not  the  king  of  poets,  as  must 
be  agreed,  heartbrokenly  .  .  What  a  mixture  of  lucidity  and  re¬ 
gret  in  this  confession!  To  render  full  justice  to  Maurras  the  poet, 
one  must,  on  leaving  Lucretius,  reread  the  essay  in  which  is  expressed 
his  gratitude  towards  his  master,  Comte,  who  flattered  himself  on 
having  rendered  man  “more  regular  than  heaven,”  towards  the  “saint” 
who  unveiled  to  his  disciples  “the  fair  visage  of  Unity,  smiling  in  a 
heaven  which  does  not  seem  too  far  away.” 

Shall  we,  in  conclusion,  fall  back  upon  the  antithesis  of  Peguy  who, 
in  accordance  with  his  favourite  ideas,  saw  two  aspects  to  Royalism, 
“the  mystical  being  naturally  that  of  the  Action  Frangaise  in  ration¬ 
alistic  forms  which  have  never  deceived  anyone  but  themselves”?  We 
hear  the  reply  of  Maurras  who  can  smile  on  occasion.  He  has  drawn 
a  picture  of  Dante  certain  traits  of  which  apply  very  precisely  to  him¬ 
self.  He  presents  him  as  “eminently  reasonable  and  sensitive  to.  the 
finest  measures  of  taste”  but  ready  also  to  refute  “with  knife-blows, 
col  coltello  .  .  .  the  adversary  who  lets  himself  fall  below  a  certain 
level  of  intelligence  and  honour.”  At  the  same  time  he  extols  “his 
voluptuous  spirit,  accessible  to  every  pleasure.”  The  intellectual 
voluptuousness  of  the  determined  logician,  Charles  Maurras,  was  ever 
his  theory  of  good  fortune.  It  comes  to  him  from  Greece,  like  every¬ 
thing  he  really  cherishes,  and  is  already  expressed  in  Androcles’  greet¬ 
ing  to  Criton:  “But,  O  dear  Master,  the  face  of  Fortune  smiles  in 
thy  coming.”  He  has  applied  it  to  Ulysses  to  prove  it  truer  through 
having  two  faces :  “The  wisest  and  most  patient  of  men  know  it  was 
fitting  not  to  be  too  unhappy.  It  is  a  kind  of  duty.  He  who  feels 
himself  betrayed  by  the  gods  and  rejected  by  Fortune  has  but  to  dis¬ 
appear  from  the  world  to  which  he  no  longer  adapts  himself.  Ulysses, 
it  is  true,  persisted,  and  the  hero  superior  to  circumstances,  through 
wisdom,  reared  his  triumph  upon  the  enmity  of  nature.”  UAvenir 
de  V Intelligence  and  Mademoiselle  Monk  draw  the  practical  lesson  from 
this  wisdom:  “The  man  of  action  is  but  a  workman  whose  art  con¬ 
sists  in  taking  advantage  of  the  lucky  chances.  .  .  All  politics  come 
back  to  this  art  of  lying  in  wait  for  the  combinazione,  the  happy 
chance.  .  .  All  despair  in  politics  is  an  absolute  stupidity.”  In 
modern  terms  the  example  of  Ulysses  interprets  itself  thus:  “A 
moment  always  comes  when  the  problem  of  success  is  a  question  of  in¬ 
sight  and  reduces  itself  to  the  search  for  what  our  Ancients  called 
junctura  rerum,  the  joint  where  the  bony  structure  bends,  though 
it  is  rigid  elsewhere,  the  place  where  the  spring  of  the  action  will  play.” 
In  daily  politics  as  well  as  in  hours  of  intoxication  before  the  Propy- 
laea,  Charles  Maurras  has  proclaimed  that  the  supreme  beauty  of  the 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  178 

world  was  “the  unifying  power  of  man’s  clear  reason  crowned  with  the 
tenderest  smiles  of  Fortune.” 

2.  REVOLUTIONARY  SPIRIT  AND  INTERNATIONALISM 

The  internal  discords  of  the  end  of  the  century  divided  our  liter¬ 
ature  into  writers  of  the  right  and  writers  of  the  left.  Zola’s  famous 
letter  and  the  protest  of  the  intellectuals  are  the  exact  counterpart  of 
the  political  action  of  Coppee  or  Lemaitre ;  and  when  the  historian 
wishes  to  judge  that  period,  two  opposed  monuments  will  offer  them¬ 
selves  to  his  attention:  Maurice  Barres’  Deracines  (completed  by 
Scenes  et  Doctrines  dw  nationalisme )  and  Anatole  France’s  Histoire 
c  ont  empo  raine . 

It  is  enough  to  write  this  title  for  the  multiple  characters  with  whom 
France  has  peopled  UOrme  dw  mail,  Le  Mannequin  d’ osier,  L’Anneau 
d’amethyste  and  M.  Bergeret  d  Paris  to  pass  at  once  in  charmed 
memory.  All  the  life  of  a  big  provincial  town  is  there  depicted  with 
its  extensions  into,  the  surrounding  country  and  its  ramifications  as 
far  as  Paris — a  convenient  setting  and  one  which  the  great  writer’s 
satire  enlarges  at  will.  France  is  not  unaware  that  the  irreducible 
enemy  of  free  thought  is  the  Church.  Indefatigably,  mercilessly,  he 
describes,  in  the  diocese  administered  by  the  cautious  Mgr.  Chariot,  in 
the  midst  of  a  swarm  of  ecclesiastics  each  of  whom  offers  the  ironist 
a  hold  through  some  human  weakness,  the  struggle  between  two  repre¬ 
sentative  priests :  M.  Lantaigne,  the  apostle  of  unity,  uncompromising 
with  regard  to  the  world  and  M.  Guitrel,  opportunist  and  arrivist, 
who,  under  the  wiles  of  a  second-hand  clothes-dealer,  keeps  the  same 
hatred  for  democratic  institutions  and  will  prove  it  as  soon  as  he  has 
nothing  more  to  expect  of  the  Republic.  Beside  these  strong,  danger¬ 
ous  men  the  Conservative  party  seems  composed  of  puppets.  The  De 
Breces  represent  the  upper  aristocracy,  unintelligent,  monarchist  by 
tradition,  anti-Semitic  and  anti-Dreyfusist  by  order,  completely  be¬ 
wildered  when  a  reality  like  the  victory  of  the  Americans  over  the 
Spaniards  comes  to  upset  its  antediluvian  prejudices.  They  have 
friends  in  the  army  such  as  that  “honest,  simple  old  man”  General 
Cartier  de  Chalmot,  and  they  group  about  them  the  discontented  mem¬ 
bers  of  the  Bench  like  M.  Lerond,  an  ex-deputy  attorney-general.  In 
the  capitalistic  society  of  Valcombe,  in  the  home  of  the  iron-master, 
Dcllion,  these  nobles  are  aped.  His  title  assures  acceptance  for  the 
old  Chouan  Gromance,  abundantly  betrayed  by  a  wife  whose  agreeable 
body  houses  a  voluptuous,  practical  soul.  The  prudent  politicians  are 
received  there — M.  de  Terremondre  who  always  knows  how  to  hold 
his  tongue  and  Doctor  Fornerol,  “State  Catholic.”  The  archivist 


174  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Mazure  is  feared  because  his  investigations  have  revealed  to  him  the 
shameful  secrets  dissimulated  by  their  names  and  their  fortunes.  The 
vital  preoccupation  of  these  cliques  was  to  defend  their  salons ;  and 
then  suddenly  the  events  overwhelm  them.  Baroness  de  Bonmont, 
a  converted  Jewess,  forces  her  way  into  the  best  society  by  offering  a 
ciborium  to  Notre-Dame-des-Belles-Feuilles.  Thus  she  serves  the 
ambitions  of  her  son,  a  blase  lobbyist.  She  brings  her  money  to  the 
good  cause  which  gives  her  in  exchange  two  lovers,  the  swindler  Raoul 
Marcien,  a  paladin  of  nationalism  and  Joseph  Lacrisse,  a  municipal 
councillor  of  Paris,  one  of  the  leaders  of  the  Trublions,  a  league  in 
which  a  handful  of  unscrupulous  arrivists,  together  with  a  few  un¬ 
fathomable  Jewish  bankers,  have  collected  a  crowd  of  factionaries, 
idiots,  restless  spirits  and  sharpers  for  the  purpose  of  strangling 
“la  Gueuse”  and  re-establishing  the  King. 

What  is  the  attitude  of  the  governing  class  towards  the  disorders 
of  this  pretended  party  of  order?  France  who  had  taken  his  reader 
to  the  Nuncio,  Mgr.  Cima,  a  worthy  example  of  that  Roman  duplicity 
of  which  no  one  knows  whether  it  is  profound  diplomacy  or  absolute 
insignificance,  also  takes  him  to  see  Loyer,  Premier  without  illusions, 
and  the  representative  of  the  Republic  in  the  Department,  the  Prefect 
Worms-Clavelin,  a  Jewish  opportunist  who  keeps  his  position  thanks  to 
the  intrigues  of  his  wife,  nee  Noemi  Coblentz,  and  whose  daughter  is 
brought  up  by  the  Dames  du  Precieux  Sang — thanks  also  to  his  clumsy 
good  nature.  Those  elected  by  the  people,  deputies  and  senators,  have 
as  their  sole  object  the  avoidance  of  scandals  and  prosecutions  which 
the  Pannetons  of  all  kinds  could  exploit  against  them.  Under  these 
nonchalant  masters  life  continues  its  course  and  until  the  first  men¬ 
tion  of  the  Affair,  at  the  beginning  of  UAnneau  d’amethyste,  no  mani¬ 
festation  disturbs  the  city’s  calm.  Only,  from  time  to  time,  a  crime 
followed  by  capital  punishment,  or  a  conjugal  misfortune  or  the  visions 
of  a  clairvoyant  come  to  afford  new  matter  for  the  conversation  in 
M.  Paillot’s  book-shop. 

It  is  in  this  setting  that  Anatole  France  has  placed  the  character  of 
M.  Bergeret  and  he  has  brought  to  his  delineation  the  same  delicate  art 
which  renders  the  figure  of  Jerome  Coignard  unforgettable.  A  profes¬ 
sor  at  the  Faculte  des  Lettres,  a  distinguished  humanist,  a  keen  ob¬ 
server,  M.  Bergeret  sees  all  his  merit  buried  in  the  sombre  vault  where 
but  two  or  three  faithful  disciples  accompany  him.  Unhappy  in  his 
private  life,  reduced  to  playing  an  obscure  part  in  public  life,  he  is, 
in  L’Orme  du  mail  and  Le  Mannequin  d'osier,  the  spokesman  of  a  dis¬ 
enchanted  philosophy.  He  excels  in  the  analyses  which  disconcert 
his  auditors:  “One  never  knows  whether  you  are  joking  or  in  ear- 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  175 

nest,”  his  wife  says  to  him.  “I  am  not  a  dilettante  like  you,”  M. 
Mazure  flings  at  him.  Poor  dilettante,  clever  most  of  all  at  wounding 
himself,  at  discouraging  his  own  effort,  “he  was  so  unhappy  as  to  be 
intelligent  enough  to  recognize  his  mediocrity.”  He  maintained  that 
the  true  science  of  life  is  a  “benevolent  contempt  for  men,”  and  in¬ 
stinctively,  “he  forgave  much  to  misanthropy.”  For  he  believed  that 
civilization  merely  went  barbarism  one  better  in  cruelty.  In  politics, 
he  preferred  the  Republic  as  a  lesser  evil:  “It  is  not  justice,  but  it  is 
facility.”  He  refused  to  go  beyond  this  disillusionized  pessimism.  Yet 
M.  Bergeret’s  soul  was  not  base  and  the  lessons  of  life  were  to  save 
him.  Betrayed  by  his  wife,  after  the  ninety  minutes  needed  by  him  to 
reach  a  state  of  relative  wisdom,  he  still  found  occasion  to  despair: 
“I  believe  that  organic  life  is  an  evil  peculiar  to  this  ugly  little  planet.” 
He  did  not  work  any  the  less  on  that  account  to  free  himself.  From 
the  first  chapters  of  L’Anneau,  his  splenetic  spirit  has  given  way  to 
delightful  reflections  tinged  with  a  human  melancholy,  whether  in¬ 
spired  by  the  memory  of  Hercules  or  by  a  poor  little  dog  which  came 
to  him.  In  the  crisis  of  conscience  caused  by  the  Affair  he  does  not 
hesitate  and  takes  the  side  of  revision.  It  is  true  he  defends  the  truth 
without  illusion  as  to  its  triumph ;  but  France  decided  that  M.  Bergeret 
should  come  to  Paris  to  taste  anew  the  charm  of  the  beloved  town,  to 
deplore  the  sacrilegious  changes  in  it  and  also  to  affirm  a  new  faith  in 
the  city  of  the  future.  Doubtless,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  his  sister 
Zoe,  he  exaggerates  his  speculative  spirit.  He  preaches  a  little  at 
times.  Who  would  dare  complain  of  it  when  he  celebrates  in  noble 
accents  the  omnipotence  of  thought? — “Nothing  is  more  powerful 
than  speech.  The  concatenation  of  strong  arguments  and  of  lofty 
thoughts  is  a  bond  that  nothing  can  break.  Speech,  like  David’s 
sling,  discomfits  the  violent  and  casts  down  the  strong.  Without  it 
the  world  would  belong  to  armed  brutes.  Who  then  holds  them  in 
respect?  Alone,  weaponless  and  naked,  thought.” 

M.  Bergeret’s  evolution  corresponds  to  the  progress  of  Anatole 
France’s  thought.  When  he  accused  him  of  being  “less  convinced  of 
Dreyfus’  innocence  than  of  the  general  culpability,”  Barres  closed  his 
eyes  to  this  change.  Certainly  there  was,  in  the  first  France,  a  spirit 
of  spontaneous,  almost  instinctive  anarchy.  He  delighted  in  stressing 
the  promiscuous  incidents  which  suddenly  upset  the  social  order, 
whether  it  were  a  matter  of  hostile  soldiers  fraternizing  or  of  the  arch¬ 
bishop  getting  his  game  from  a  poacher.  He  showed  M.  Bergeret  more 
in  revolt  than  Pied  d’Alouette  and  dismissed,  non-suited,  both  radicals 
and  conservatives  “faithful  to  the  same  traditions  and  subject  to  the 
same  prejudices.”  Above  all  he  was  alive  to  the  “immense  irony  of 


176  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

things.”  He  kept  none  the  less  a  few  very  strong  beliefs.  He 
hated  war  with  all  his  might  and  did  not  disown  M.  Roux’s  words :  “I 
believe  the  fraternity  of  nations  will  be  the  work  of  triumphant  social¬ 
ism.”  Unlike  Barres  and  Maurras,  he  did  not  regard  the  Affair  as 
having  a  narrowly  French  significance.  He  referred  it  to  international 
conscience  and  gladly  welcomed  Commander  Aspertini’s  opinion. 
Though  laughing  at  his  errors,  he  kept  for  Pecus  “a  deep  and  sorrow¬ 
ful  sympathy.” 

This  twofold  aspect  of  his  thought  gives  an  extraordinary  attrac¬ 
tion  to  L’Histoire  contemporaine.  That  picture  of  a  society,  of  which 
we  have  been  able  to  trace  but  the  broad  lines,  is  executed  with  the 
painstaking  spirit  of  a  sportive  portrait-painter.  A  gallery  of 
France’s  figures  would  require  the  mention  of  all,  including  the  slight¬ 
est  silhouettes.  He  excels  in  representing  them  in  repose ;  but  he  can 
show  them  equally  well  in  action.  Let  the  reader  recall  the  chapters 
of  L’Anneau  where  the  soldier  Bonmont  studies  equality  and  in¬ 
equality  in  the  barracks,  where  Madame  Worms-Clavelin,  having 
given  herself  in  a  cab  to  a  young  statesman,  comes  to  call  on  her 
daughter  and  ends  the  afternoon  with  a  kind  thought  for  her  hus¬ 
band.  Fie  brings  out  easily,  with  a  stroke,  the  contradictory  char¬ 
acter  of  these  puppets :  “M.  Mazure,  who  was  a  free-thinker,  was 

seized,  at  the  idea  of  death,  with  a  strong  desire  to  possess  an  immortal 
soul.  ...”  “M.  de  Terremondre  was  too  moderate  to  secede  from  the 
party  of  violence.”  He  triumphs  in  the  psychological  deblayage : 
“He  searched  his  mind  for  the  name  of  a  strong  man;  but  whether  he 
did  not  know  one  among  his  friends,  whether  his  unfaithful  memory  re¬ 
fused  him  the  name  he  wanted,  or  a  natural  malevolence  made  him  re¬ 
ject  the  examples  which  came  to  his  mind,  he  did  not  finish  his  sen¬ 
tence.”  To  the  same  art  belong  the  little  sentences,  at  the  end  of 
chapters,  which  delicately  stress  the  concordance  between  the  theoreti¬ 
cal  opinions  of  the  heroes  and  their  private  troubles.  It  is  the  com¬ 
position  which  reveals  the  sole  weakness  of  this  history,  its  subordina¬ 
tion  to  the  current  events  which  M.  Bergeret  a,  Paris  follows  a  little 
too  closely.  Polemics  sometimes  lead  France  to  spin  out,  as  in  the 
story  of  the  Lacrisse  election,  or  to  indulge  in  strained  comparisons 
such  as  the  two  attitudes  of  Guitrel  before  and  after  his  appointment 
to  Tourcoing;  but  do  we  not  also  owe  to  these  quarrelsome  exigencies 
the  amusing  fiction  of  the  Trublions  who  “burst  because  they  were  full 
of  wind”?  The  abrupt  passages  from  one  class  of  society  to  another 
in  this  review  ofrthe  follies  of  the  day  are  always  carefully  calculated. 
Nothing  is  more  skilful  than  the  description  of  Guitrel  at  the  theatre 
between  two  pictures  of  M.  Bergeret ;  nothing  more  evocative  of  an  at- 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  177 

mosphere  than  the  easy  sentences  with  which  each  of  France’s  chapters 
begins  and  those  perpetual  recurrences,  throughout  the  work,  of  sym¬ 
bolic  motifs.  To  a  reader  of  L’Histoire  contemporaine,  “ the  niece 
of  the  great  Pouilly  of  the  dictionary,”  “that  piece  of  furniture  com¬ 
monly  called  a  puff,”  and  “page  212  of  Volume  XXXVIII  of  the  His- 
toire  des  Voyages remain  unforgettably  dear. 

Great  as  may  be  his  talent  for  drawing  types  in  the  setting  which 
suits  them,  France  attains  his  greatest  effects  in  the  conversations. 
There  his  psychological  subtlety,  his  picturesque  erudition  and  his 
irony  are  harmoniously  united.  He  directs  with  the  same  ease  two 
parallel  meditations  in  the  depths  of  two  arm-chairs  or  the  talk  at  a 
table  where  ten  guests  interweave  comically  the  most  varied  themes. 
The  dialogues  between  Lantaigne  and  Bergeret,  between  Worms- 
Clavelin  and  Guitrel  form  excellent  comedy  scenes.  The  discussions 
at  the  bookseller  Paillot’s  equal  the  conversations  of  Jerome  Coignard 
and  Jacques  Tournebroche.  Doubtless  they  abound  in  gauloiseries; 
but,  as  Aspertini  says :  “Life  would  really  be  too  sad  if  the  rosy 
swarm  of  wanton  thoughts  did  not  come  at  times  to  console  the  old 
age  of  honest  folk.”  Let  us  listen  to  Maurras :  “The  plastic  tra¬ 
dition,”  he  says,  “animates  the  whole  of  France’s  work.”  Must  we 
reproach  him  because  Mme.  de  Gromance,  the  image  of  this  plastic 
tradition,  so  often  haunted  M.  Bergeret’s  thoughts?  These  are  diver¬ 
sions.  Carlo  Aspertini  has  proved  capable  of  an  eloquent  homage  to 
the  French  nation,  “friend  of  the  human  race,  fellow-citizen  of  all 
peoples.”  M.  Bergeret’s  bitterness  melted  into  tender  emotion  when 
he  had  to  bid  farewell  to  the  town  where  he  had  suffered,  and  when  he 
saw  once  more  his  childhood’s  apartment.  Anatole  France  has  shown 
that  he  possessed,  in  addition  to  his  terrible  irony,  the  tragic  strength 
which  describes  the  seminarist  Piednagel’s  expulsion  by  Lantaigne,  the 
indulgence  which  repeats,  apropos  of  Piquet,  this  truth  in  Le  Lys 
rouge,  that  “souls  are  mutually  impenetrable”  and  the  generous  virile 
faith  which  thus  sums  up  his  masterly  fresco  of  a  civil  war:  “The 
Affair  has  revealed  the  evil  with  which  our  fine  society  is  stricken, 
just  as  Koch’s  vaccine  accentuates  the  tubercular  lesions  in  an  or¬ 
ganism.  Fortunately  there  are  deep  human  floods  beneath  this 
silvery  foam;  but  when  will  my  country  be  delivered  from  ignorance 
and  hatred?” 

The  partisan  had  been  awakened  in  him.  To  his  desire  to  charm 
he  henceforth  added  the  passion  for  serving.  Having,  like  Voltaire, 
become  one  of  the  masters  of  opinion  in  France  and  in  Europe,  he 
openly  pursued  his  crusade  against  “ignorance  and  hatred.”  His 
power  of  convincing  was  all  the  greater  because  the  orator  of  Vers 


178  '  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

les  temps  meilleurs  who  prolonged  the  dialogue  of  Renan  and  Pallas 
Athene,  was  also  the  satirist  of  Crainquebille,  skilful  at  sharply  stress¬ 
ing  social  injustices  in  tales  of  nonchalant  irony.  This  historian 
who  applied  the  principles  of  scientific  criticism  to  the  story  of  Jeanne 
d’Arc  published,  the  same  year,  L’lle  des  Pingouins  where,  in  a  comic 
epitome  worthy  of  Swift,  the  life  of  a  nation  is  depicted  from  its 
mythical  period  to  the  days  of  a  very  contemporary  timeliness.  Sur  la 
pierre  blanche  unites  the  two  inspirations  which  share  his  mind.  A 
long  conversation,  in  a  Roman  springtime,  between  cultivated  friends 
who  speak  philosophically  of  the  past  and  of  the  future  is  interrupted 
by  two  readings.  In  Gallion,  Nicole  Langelier  describes  the  encounter 
of  the  proconsul  and  the  apostle  Paul,  framed  with  dialogues  which 
evoke  the  atmosphere  of  Thais.  In  Par  la  porte  de  come  ou  par  la 
porte  d'ivoire ,  Hippolyte  Dufresne  lets  his  revery  wander  over  future 
society.  Through  the  mouth  of  this  Nicole  Langelier,  whose  name  is 
dear  to  the  humanist,  France  expresses  his  faith:  “Universal  peace 
will  one  day  be  realized,  not  because  men  will  become  better  (this  it  is 
not  permitted  to  hope),  but  because  a  new  order  of  things,  a  new 
science,  new  economic  necessities  will  impose  upon  them  the  state  of 
peace,  as  formerly  the  very  conditions  of  their  existence  placed  them 
and  maintained  them  in  the  state  of  war.”  There  was  no  illuminism 
in  his  adhesion  of  pacifist  socialism. 

Never,  moreover,  did  he  become  the  slave  of  any  party  and  Pa 
Revolte  des  Anges  is  yet  another  proof  of  .  the  independence  of  his 
fantasy.  It  had  already  been  seen  in  Les  Dieux  ont  soif  where  his 
double  talent  as  historian  and  novelist  is  reconciled.  This  book,  which 
offers  perhaps  the  most  complete  epitome  of  his  artistic  genius,  takes 
as  starting-point  the  idea  frequently  expressed  throughout  his  work, 
even  in  the  “anticipation”  of  Sur  la  pierre  blanche,  that  the  men  who 
have  presided  over  the  greatest  events  were  mediocre  men.  Thus 
he  shows  us  Marat  and  Robespierre  as  they  really  were,  stripped  of 
their  contradictory  legends.  What  they  lose  in  false  majesty  they 
easily  gain  in  human  interest.  The  better  to  demonstrate  the  psychol¬ 
ogy  of  the  Terrorists  he  invents  one.  Evariste  Gamelin,  a  second-rate 
painter,  a  sensitive  soul  intoxicated  with  optimistic  philosophy,  be¬ 
comes  little  by  little  one  of  the  fiercest  Jacobins,  sacrificing  even  his 
oldest  friends  “so  that  to-morrow  all  French  people  may  embrace  each 
other’  joyfully.”  About  this  character  of  whom  the  slightest  clumsi¬ 
ness  would  have  made  a  fool  or  a  monster  and  who  remains,  even  in  his 
tragic  madness,  a  man,  France  has  painted  contemporary  society  and 
life  such  as  he*  loves  it  at  that  end  of  the  pleasure-living,  artistic 
eighteenth  century.  For  though  the  sinister  shadows  of  the  Friend  of 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  179 
the  People  and  the  Incorruptible  may  pass  and  bow  down  for  an  instant 
the  head  menaced  by  the  guillotine,  Elodie,  Julie,  the  Thevenin,  Mme. 
Roehemaure  pursue  none  the  less  their  amorous  and  mercenary  in¬ 
trigues;  Jean  Blaise  and  Desmahis  run  only  the  faster  to  the  gratifica¬ 
tion  of  their  desires ;  the  Reverend  Father  Longuemare  continues  his 
devotions  and  nothing  disturbs  the  epicurean  wisdom  of  Maurice  Brot- 
teaux  des  Ilettes.  In  this  latter  hero,  a  retired  tax-collector  ruined 
by  the  Revolution,  France  has  given  us  a  brother  to  Jerome  Coignard 
— a  brother  whose  scepticism  is  soberer  and  more  delicately  adorned 
and  whose  ironical  acumen  does  not  exclude  a  generous  dignity ; 
and  Brotteaux  remains  steadfastly  faithful,  to  the  very  Sic  ubi  non 
erimus  ...  of  the  scaffold,  to  nature’s  poet  who  had  explained  “the 
dream  of  life.”  The  master  writer  Anatole  France  has  unfolded  many 
a  picture  of  this  dream,  from  the  smiling  comedies  in  which  Sylvestre 
Bonnard  amused  himself  to  the  bloody  drama  of  which  Brotteaux  des 
Ilettes  is  the  witness.  While  others  found  glory  in  the  exaltation  of 
passions  as  powerfully  excited  by  ideas  and  words  as  by  confused  de¬ 
sires,  he  has  reserved  his  cruel  barbed  attacks  for  every  fanaticism ; 
and,  obedient  to  the  two  goddesses,  Irony  and  Pity,  he  formerly  in¬ 
voked,  his  supreme  ambition  has  been,  throughout  a  long  production 
already  classic,  to  raise  in  troubled  times  the  persuasive  voice  of 
Tolerance. 

Perhaps  Jean  Jaures’s  fame  as  a  tribune  risks  wronging  the  liter¬ 
ary  reputation  he  deserves.  The  first  image  evoked  by  his  name  is 
that  of  an  orator  hurling  virulent  apostrophes  at  the  heads  of  his 
opponents  (“It  is  we  who  are  the  true  heirs  of  the  ancestral  hearth. 
We  have  taken  its  flame  while  you  have  kept  but  the  cinders  .  .  .”)  or 
orchestrating  the  great  themes  of  modern  sensibility,  from  the  “old 
song  which  cradled  human  misery”  to  the  true  patriotism  which  he  de¬ 
fines  as  “the  equal  right  of  every  country  to  liberty  and  justice,  the 
duty  of  every  citizen  to  foster  in  his  country  the  forces  of  liberty 
and  of  justice”;  and  this  picture  is  not  inexact  in  this  sense  that 
his  written  prose  keeps,  even  in  its  most  finished  passages,  such  as  the 
perfect  page  where  he  celebrates  our  communion  with  the  earth,  the 
same  oratorical  rhythm.  Journalist,  historian  or  philosopher,  Jaures 
remains,  as  on  the  platform,  an  admirable  creator  of  images  whether 
he  describes  that  end  of  July,  1914,  when  “each  people  appears  in  the 
streets  of  Europe,  its  little  torch  in  hand,  and  now  behold  the  con¬ 
flagration,”  or  whether  he  prophesies  the  revolt  and  the  time  “when 
peoples  will  say  to  those  responsible :  ‘Go  and  God  forgive  you !’  ”  or 
whether,  as  a  psychologist,  he  brands  triumphant  egotism :  “They  do 


180  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

not  see  far,  whatever  their  appetite,  who  reduce  the  whole  horizon  to  a 

prey.” 

It  would  be  impossible  however  to  admit  the  reducing  of  Jaures  to 
this  verbal  force  and  felicity  which  are  but  two  traits  of  a  generous, 
complex  nature.  It  was  not  an  accidental  eloquence  which,  in  1905,  in¬ 
spired  him  with  this  picture :  “The  present  world  is  ambiguous  and 
confused.  There  is  in  it  no  fatality,  no  certainty.  The  proletariat 
is  neither  strong  enough  for  there  to  be  assurance  of  peace,  nor  is  it 
feeble  enough  for  there  to  be  fatality  of  war.”  That  Jaures’  enthusi¬ 
asm  was  ever  ready  to  be  awakened,  there  is  no  better  proof  than  his 
intervention  in  the  Affair  into  which  he  threw  himself  in  spite  of  the 
abstention  advised  by  several  socialist  leaders  determined  to  see  in  it 
merely  a  bourgeois  drama:  “Dreyfus,”  replied  Jaures,  “is  neither  an 
officer  nor  a  bourgeois.  He  is  stripped,  by  the  very  excess  of  mis¬ 
fortune,  of  every  class  characteristic.  ...  We  are  not  obliged  to  take 
refuge  outside  humanity  in  order  to  remain  socialists.”  Some  of  his 
adversaries,  treating  him  as  a  crafty  peasant,  have  at  least  paid  hom¬ 
age  to  that  good  sense  which  denounced  Herve’s  sophism:  “To  rebel 
against  the  despotism  of  kings,  against  the  tyranny  of  the  employer 
and  of  capital,  and  to  assume  passively  the  yoke  of  conquest,  the  domi¬ 
nation  of  foreign  militarism — -this  would  be  so  puerile  and  miserable 
a  contradiction  that  it  would  be  swept  away  at  the  first  alarm  by 
every  aroused  force  of  instinct  and  of  reason.”  Many  examples  bear 
witness  to  Jaures’  perspicacity — the  delicate  portrait  of  Lemaxtre  as 
a  “repentant  coquette,”  epigrammatic  judgments  upon  Herve  who  pos¬ 
sesses  “the  genius  of  misunderstanding”  or  upon  Taine  “who  thought 
he  knew  many  facts  because  he  had  taken  many  notes,”  the  vigorous 
denunciation  at  the  Amsterdam  Congi’ess  of  the  parliamentary  power¬ 
lessness  of  Social  Democracy.  He  opposed  the  fanaticism  of  friend 
and  foe  alike  with  liberation  through  the  reason:  “The  Church  has 
so  skilfully  fashioned  the  yoke  which  weighs  upon  the  nations,  she  has 
so  multiplied  her  holds  upon  mind  and  on  life,  that  many  men  may  per¬ 
haps  need  to  resort  to  outrage  in  order  to  convince  themselves  they 
are  freed.  I  pi’efer,  for  us  all,  other  ways  of  liberation.” 

He  did  not  owe  his  own  liberty  to  the  “weak,  convulsive  l’evolt”  inter- 
px-eted  in  a  vulgar  couplet  of  the  Carmagnole  disapproved  by  Jaui-es 
no  less  than  by  Bourget.  His  strength  had  two  pillars:  philosophy 
and  history.  The  studies  in  La  Realite  dn  monde  sensible  had  led  him 
to  these  conclusions  that  “the  real  is  that  which  is  intelligible”  and 
that  “there  is  no  action  without  reaction,”  that  is  to  say  to  the  idea 
of  unity  and  oBuniversal  penetration,  the  modern  form  of  pantheism. 
From  the  same  premises  some  drew  a  lesson  of  passive  doubt.  Jaures’ 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  181 

affirmative  and  incisively  plebeian  tendency  shows  itself  in  his  irony  for 
these  dilettantes :  “They  make  up  for  research  by  anxiety,  which  is 
easier  and  more  distinguished.”  As  for  himself,  he  proclaimed  the 
necessity  of  an  effort,  of  a  faith  in  effort  demanded  of  us  by  this  uni¬ 
verse  all  parts  of  which  are  interdependent.  In  the  domain  of  history 
he  found  this  law :  “Social  evolution  forms  a  continuous  whole.”  He 
undertook  then  to  “suppress  nothing  which  constitutes  human  life” 
and,  by  reviving  the  revolutionary  epic,  to  “reconcile  Plutarch,  Miche¬ 
let  and  Karl  Marx.”  Thence,  in  his  Histoire  de  la  Revolution,  over 
and  above  the  documentary  merits  which  have  not  appeared  negligible 
to  a  specialist  like  M.  Aulard,  a  prodigious  narrative  animation. 
Thence  the  penetrating  reflections,  that  judgment  upon  the  Girondins 
for  example :  “One  would  say  that  the  heart  of  the  Gironde  does  not 
exactly  coincide  with  the  heart  of  France.”  Thence  those  magnificent 
portraits  of  Robespierre  and  Danton  whom  Jaures  drew  as  a  shrewd 
politician  and  a  poet. 

His  vast  philosophical  and  historical  culture  tinged  his  socialistic 
doctrine  with  humanity.  His  brilliant  personality  attracted  to  social¬ 
istic  ideas  sympathies  which  a  touch  of  dogma  would  have  discouraged. 
Developing  the  notions  expressed  in  La  Realite,  Rappoport  rightly 
says  that  Jaures’  political  idea  was  a  “kind  of  cosmic  democracy.”  He 
aimed  at  “the  continuous  harmony  of  mechanical  progress  and  of 
human  progress”  which  would  allow  the  proletarian  “to  cease  to  be  a 
machine  in  order  to  become  a  liberty.”  Upon  this  Bergsonian  distinc¬ 
tion  the  professor  of  philosophy  who  never  abdicated  in  Jaures  ( Tu  es 
sacerdos  in  ceternum )  constructs  his  idealism:  “When  we  flash  on  a 
blind  and  brutal  world  this  possibility,  this  reality  of  liberty  and  of 
harmony,  we  ourselves  cast,  in  reality,  the  basis  of  an  idealistic  inter¬ 
pretation  of  the  world.”  We  must  not,  he  added,  be  “forever  judging, 
judging  all  the  time.”  We  must,  in  order  to  prepare  the  future,  under¬ 
stand  the  past  and  the  present.  Then  it  will  be  perceived  that  the 
social  revolution  can  be  accomplished  peacefully  thanks  to  “the  plas¬ 
ticity,  the  elasticity  of  bourgeois  power,”  that  persuasion  works  at  it 
more  efficaciously  than  violence,  the  “absolute  pessimism,”  “the  desper¬ 
ate,  fierce  waiting”  of  the  Guesdists.  Then  it  will  be  recognized  that 
“the  fatherland  is  not  an  exhausted  idea”  and  one  will  have  a  clearer 
conception  of  the  originality  of  the  French  genius  wherein  mingle  “the 
passionate  appeal  to  human  justice,  the  seriousness  of  the  Hebraic  con¬ 
science  and  the  grace,  the  force,  the  reason  of  Greek  thought.”  For 
this  progress  towards  the  truth,  as  he  conceived  it  to  be  possible,  Jaures 
demanded  however  the  end  of  that  armed  peace  in  which  France  played 
the  role  of  hostage  between  England  and  Germany,  the  advent  of  a 


182  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

truly  pacific  era.  This  explains  why  the  struggle  against  war  occupies 

so  great  a  place  in  his  work. 

To  this  problem  he  devoted  the  sole  book  the  demands  of  his  daily 
activity  allowed  him  to  finish  in  the  vast  synthesis  planned  by  him 
under  the  title  of  U  Organisation  sociale  de  la  France.  L’Armee  nou- 
velle  itself  suffers,  in  the  form  if  not  in  the  thought  crystallized  by  years 
of  discussion,  from  that  obligation  to  write  amid  the  tumult  of  polemics. 
At  least  it  presents  a  vivid  picture  of  so  generous  a  spirit.  In  this 
work  which  was  originally  to  have  been  called  La  Defense  nationale  et 
la  Paix  inter  nationale,  he  combats  the  military  conception  of  his  age 
which,  based  upon  a  false  idea  of  Revenge,  puts  the  army  at  the  dis¬ 
posal  of  a  class,  conceals  from  the  soldier,  under  cover  of  rigorous 
automatism,  the  gravity  of  his  task  and  makes  an  armed  nation  a 
snare ;  but  his  analysis  is  not  a  systematic  attack.  He  respects  Cap¬ 
tain  Gilbert  whose  principles  he  disputes ;  he  lingers  to  contemplate  “a 
fine  drama  of  French  thought  and  will”  in  the  Alsatian  campaign  of 
177F;  he  renders  homage  to  the  bourgeoise  because  it  is  “a  working- 
class  and  declares  the  army  “should  not  be  lowered  from  the  high 
intellectual  level  to  which  it  had  been  raised  by  the  immense  effort  of 
the  human  mind.”  The  measures  he  advocates  are  dictated  to  him  by 
a  plan  of  intelligent  defence,  based  upon  Revolutionary  experience. 
He  dreams  of  “a  civilization  of  free  men”  as  splendid  as  the  Greek 
society  founded  upon  slavery,  whose  army,  animated  by  a  deliberate 
faith,  will  fight  enthusiastically  to  kill  war  and  conquer  that  inter¬ 
national  peace  in  which  “the  new  humanity  will  be  rich  and  vital  only 
if  each  people’s  originality  be  prolonged  in  total  harmony  and  if 
every  country  vibrates  to  the  human  lyre.”  Throughout  this  study 
which  is  never  arid,  Jaures,  as  if  he  had  a  presentiment  that  his  work 
would  be  prematurely  interrupted,  scattered  broad  historical  esti¬ 
mates  of  the  Revolution  and  the  part  played  by  the  army  in  the 
intellectual  tradition  of  France.  Events  have  verified  the  accuracy 
of  certain  of  his  views  on  war,  on  American  idealism,  on  Lord 
Curzon’s  imperialistic  Unionism.  If,  over  and  over  again,  he  shows 
a  moving  sympathy  for  the  proletariat  labouring  under  hard¬ 
ship  and  ignorance,  he  none  the  less  protested  that  “democracy 
has  never  meant  for  us  socialists  uniform  mediocrity  and  com¬ 
mon  abasement.”  Faithful  to  his  principle  of  unity,  he  summed  up  his 
teaching  in  a  sentence :  “There  is  a  hierarchy  in  the  world  of  intelli¬ 
gence,  but  it  is  not  broken  in  two.”  He  has  borne  witness  to  his  deep 
understanding  of  French  genius,  supple  and  strong,  realistic  and  chival¬ 
rous,  in  the  pages  on  Montaigne  and  Rabelais  or  in  this  definition  of 
the  fatherland :  “The  apprenticeship  of  collective  life  and  of  the  great 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  183 

human  sensibility,  not  in  an  abstract  humanity  which  was,  for  long, 
in  a  state  of  dream  merely  and  of  uncertain  preparation,  but  in  the 
substantial  and  historical  reality  of  a  human  group  ample  and  rich 
in  life,  but  sufficiently  determined,  concrete  and  tangible  for  the  high 
spiritual  impulse  to  have  a  natural  base.”  If  Jaures,  through  this  alli¬ 
ance  of  concrete  intelligence  and  idealism,  did  not  attain  the  artistic 
perfection  which  he  did  not  scorn  but  could  not  aim  at  so  long  as  a 
possibility  for  action  offered  itself  to  him,  he  remains  one  of  the 
animators  of  his  epoch. 

Internationalism,  for  Anatole  France  the  supreme  desire  of  an  un¬ 
biased  humanist,  for  Jaures  the  postulate  of  a  monistic  philosophy,  is 
for  Romain  Rolland  the  faith  of  a  moralist.  No  doubt  “divine  music” 
was  for  him  as  for  his  hero  “the  light  which  was  to  illumine  his  life” ; 
but  Gourmont’s  analysis  was  none  the  less  incomplete  when  it  stopped 
short  at  “his  musicographic  logic.”  The  music  preferred  by  Rolland  is 
that  the  beauty  of  which  assumes  a  moral  significance.  He  ends  his 
study  on  Monteverdi  with  this  distinction :  “Monteverdi  was  certainly 
one  of  the  great  Latin  artists  who  can  always  adapt  their  talent  to 
practical  circumstances,  very  different  in  this  from  the  great  German 
composers  who  write  without  bothering  whether  what  they  write  can  be 
played  or  not.”  Between  those  who  utilize  the  resources  of  their 
epoch  and  those  who  force  upon  it  “a  music  of  the  future,”  it  is  felt 
where  his  sympathies  lie.  Hence  his  affection  for  the  Romantics,  for 
Berlioz,  Wagner  and  Hugo  Wolf.  He  himself  has  explained  his  own 
position  at  the  end  of  an  article  on  Pelleas  et  Melisande :  “Not  that 
Debussy’s  art,  any  more  than  Racine’s,  suffices  to  represent  French 
genius.  There  is  quite  another  side  to  this  genius,  which  is  in  no  wise 
represented  here.  It  is  heroic  action,  the  intoxication  of  reason, 
laughter,  the  passion  for  light,  the  France  of  Rabelais,  of  Moliere,  of 
Diderot,  and,  in  music,  we  shall  say  (for  want  of  better)  the  France  of 
Berlioz  and  of  Bizet.  To  tell  the  truth,  it  is  this  I  prefer;  but  God 
forbid  I  should  repudiate  the  other!”  All  Rolland  is  contained  in 
these  lines  written  in  1907.  He  has  exalted  in  Beethoven,  in  Michel¬ 
angelo,  in  Tolstoi,  the  apostles  of  this  “heroic  action”  of  which  he  found 
no  such  highly  characterized  representative  in  the  art  of  his  own  coun¬ 
try.  He  has  tried,  in  Colas  Breugnon  and  Liluli,  to  renew  the  laughter 
of  Rabelais  and  of  Diderot.  He  has  consecrated  the  protagonists  of 
his  novels,  Jean-Christophe  and  Clerambault,  to  “the  passion  for 
light.”  He  has  become  one  of  the  respected  voices  of  Europe.  To  be 
a  great  French  writer  he  has  lacked  the  ability  to  enjoy  without 
effort  that  France  of  Racine  and  Debussy,  all  delicate  shades  and 


184  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

supplenesses,  the  triumph  of  a  refined  intelligence  before  which 
his  heart  has  remained  cold.  He  has  rendered  it  full  justice;  but,  not 
having  loved  it,  he  has  never  penetrated  the  secret  of  this  perfection. 
He  certainly  admires  “the  gentle,  luminous,  veiled  sky  of  the  lie  de 
France”;  but  this  harmony — the  harmony  of  Pelleas  and  of  Berenice — ’ 
is  wanting  in  his  work. 

This  is  seen  in  reading  his  plays.  In  Le  Theatre  du  Peuple  he  shows 
the  illusions  of  the  managers  of  popular  theatres  and  concludes,  like  a 
moralist :  to  have  a  new  theatre,  we  must  have  a  new  people,  a  people  of 
free  minds.  His  last  sentence  is  a  repetition  of  Goethe’s  “in  the  be¬ 
ginning  was  Action.”  He  employs  the  stage  then  for  convictions  in 
action.  The  three  Tragedies  de  la  foi  and  the  three  dramas  of  the 
Theatre  de  la  Revolution  are  above  all  valuable  as  a  lesson  in  en¬ 
thusiasm.  Now  Rolland’s  talent  is  not  one  of  those  which  dissemble 
the  arbitrariness  of  such  an  attitude.  Fie  attempts  it  however  and 
combines  the  portrayal  of  Saint  Louis,  the  hero  of  “religious  exalta¬ 
tion”  endeared  to  him  by  their  common  hatred  of  scepticism,  with  an 
intolerable  melodrama  in  which  clumsy  psychology  falls  into  the  con¬ 
ventional  and  in  which  the  style  wavers  between  blank  verse  and  the 
most  prosaic  form.  Double  stumbling-block  of  the  purely  ideological 
theatre :  either  the  characters  will,  as  in  Le  Triomphe  de  la  raison,  be 
symbols  deprived  of  personal  life ;  or  else  the  desire  of  interest  his 
public  will  deform  the  original  conception  of  Aert  and  his  drama  of 
“national  exaltation,”  of  virile  energy,  will  end  by  presenting  us  on  the 
boards  a  young  woman  in  fancy  dress  lost  in  a  petty  love  plot.  The 
eloquent  intentions  of  14  Juillet  and  Les  Loups  are  not  sufficient  to 
animate  flesh  and  blood.  As  for  Danton,  this  glorification  of  the  trib¬ 
une  coud  not  help  taking  on  the  stage  the  violent  relief  of  a  popular 
print.  Rolland’s  merits  and  defects  combined  to  forbid  him  theatrical 
expression.  This  experience  was  however  not  lost,  if  it  taught  him 
what  subjects  suited  his  temperament.  There  was,  between  1895  and 
1905,  a  revival  of  hero-worship  borne  witness  to  by  writers  as  different 
as  Maeterlinck  and  Georges  Sorel.  The  Affair  had  required  certain 
men  to  take  a  virile  stand,  with  enormous  risks.  Even  for  the  scep¬ 
tical  Anatole  France,  Colonel  Picquart  was  a  hero.  Rolland  will  in¬ 
voke  this  example  and  that  of  the  Boers  in  the  preface  to  his  Beethoven. 
Was  not  the  best  of  his  dramatic  work  an  evocation  of  heroic  figures, 
Saint  Louis,  Aert,  Danton?  Hampered  by  scenic  requirements,  this 
psychology,  this  exaltation  of  heroism  were  to  unfold  themselves  at 
leisure  in  the  book.  A  sure  instinct  inspired  Romain  Rolland  with 
his  lives  of  illustrious  men.  The  introduction  to  the  Beethoven  states 
his  plan:  “Old  Europe  is  lying  benumbed  in  a  heavy,  vitiated 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  185 

atmosphere.  A  sordid  materialism  weighs  down  thought  .  .  .  The 
world  is  suffocating.  Let  us  open  the  windows.  Let  in  free  air. 
Let  us  breathe  the  breath  of  heroes.”  We  can  measure  the  distance 
covered  from  Symbolism  when  the  hero  was  for  some  Mallarme,  for 
others  Ruysbroeck  or  Novalis.  At  present  he  is  called  Beethoven. 
Rolland  chose  him  because  “there  emanates  from  him  a  contagion  of 
courage,  a  joy  in  battle,  the  intoxication  of  feeling  God  in  one’s  con¬ 
sciousness,”  because  his  dnrch  Leiden  Freude  is  the  “motto  of  every 
heroic  soul.”  The  passionate  biography  which  celebrated  at  the  same 
time  “the  foremost  musician  and  the  most  heroic  force  of  modern  art,” 
is  certainly  Romain  Rolland’s  most  finished  work.  Its  publication  in 
1903  was,  in  Peguy’s  words,  “not  only  the  beginning  of  Romain  Rol¬ 
land’s  literary  success  and  of  that  of  the  Cahiers  de  la  quinzaine,  but 
infinitely  more  than  a  beginning  of  literary  fortune,  it  was  a  sudden 
moral  revelation,  an  unveiled,  revealed  presentiment,  the  revelation,  the 
flowering,  the  sudden  communication  of  a  great  moral  fortune.”  Con¬ 
tinuing  to  fly  the  red  flag  of  the  heroes,  Rolland  wrote  a  Vie  de  Michel - 
Ange,  based  upon  the  “poignant  contradiction  between  a  heroic  genius 
and  a  will  which  was  not  heroic” — an  antithesis  which  suggested  to 
him  these  characteristic  reflections :  “Let  it  not  be  expected  of  us 
after  so  many  others  to  see  there  one  more  grandeur!  We  shall 
never  say  it  is  because  a  man  is  too  great  that  the  world  does  not  suffice 
him.  Mental  disquietude  is  not  a  sign  of  greatness.”  This  Sor- 
bonne  professor  of  the  history  of  art  had  nothing  of  the  aesthetic 
dilettante  about  him.  Ten  years  after  the  Beethoven  he  wrote  a  Vie 
de  Tolstoi:  “The  light  just  extinguished  has  been,  for  those  of  my 
generation,  the  purest  illumining  their  youth.”  He  saw  in  Tolstoi  “the 
one  true  friend  in  all  contemporary  art.”  Alone,  indeed,  he  had  then 
demanded  of  the  artist  that  religious  and  moral  message  which  Rolland 
demanded  in  his  turn. 

The  Vies  des  hommes  illustres  were  passionate  recreations.  Rolland 
undertook  at  the  same  time  an  original  creation.  Choosing  the  sub¬ 
ject  where  his  critical  knowledge  could  best  nourish  his  inventions,  he 
imagined  the  life  of  a  great  musician.  In  eight  years  he  published 
the  ten  volumes  of  Jean-Christophe  which  conduct  his  hero  from  his 
birth  in  a  city  of  Rhenish  Germany  to  his  death  evoking  the  belovted 
stream  which  murmurs  to  him :  “Hosanna  to  life !  Hosanna  to 
death !”  The  author  describes  step  by  step  this  road  with  its  succes¬ 
sion  of  revolts,  failures,  renewals  of  energy,  where  friendships,  loves, 
artist  quarrels,  social  cares  interrupt  a  career  which  genius  ends 
however  by  magnifying  and  which  finds  its  reward  in  a  noble  ap¬ 
peasement. 


186  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Jean-Christophe  is  then  a  monument  of  the  contemporary  French 
novel.  It  resembles  a  little  those  enormous  constructions  of  Strauss  or 
of  Mahler  whose  weakness  Rolland  has  himself  pointed  out.  Parts  of 
the  work  are  already  crumbling,  such  as  the  Foire  sur  la  place  in  which 
the  polemic  had  but  a  timely  interest  and  the  descriptions  of  the  work¬ 
ingmen’s  movements  in  Le  Buisson  ardent  which  gave  an  unfortunate 
melodramatic  turn  to  the  narrative.  Moreover  this  story  of  Jean- 
Christophe  Krafft  is  weighed  down  with  digressions.  The  whole  book 
entitled  Antoinette  is  a  hors-d'oeuvre.  There  are  too  many  women  in 
Krafft’s  life,  from  Sabine  and  Ada  to  Anna  and  Grazia.  They  encum¬ 
ber  the  novel  all  the  more  for  the  reason  that  Romain  Rolland  has 
never  been  able  to  draw  a  feminine  character.  He  lacks  precisely  for 
this  the  delicate  qualities  of  the  Racinian  and  Debussyist  France.  In 
the  Dialogue  de  V auteur  avec  son  ombre  he  has  claimed  the  right  to 
have  France  judged  by  a  German  musician.  He  nevertheless  felt  the 
difficulty  of  this  point  of  view  and,  to  obviate  it,  placed  next  to  Jean- 
Christophe  a  Frenchman,  his  friend  Olivier  Jeannin;  but  beside  the 
vigorous  Krafft  Olivier  appears  pale  and  theoretical.  The  contrast 
brings  out  irrefutably  the  natural  bent  of  Rolland’s  talent  which  once 
again  goes  to  the  representative  of  “heroic  action.”  A  last  reproach 
and  the  gravest :  moments  when  no  impassioned  sentiment  inspires 
him  with  those  eloquent  formulas  which  are  the  successes  of  the  en¬ 
thusiastic  moralist,  Jean-Christophe  contains  whole  pages  of  formless 
writing,  of  what  Gourmont  called  “his  chalky  style.”  Here  is  an  ex¬ 
ample:  “The  family,  having  vainly  imposed  its  veto,  closed  com¬ 
pletely  for  him  who  ignored  its  sacrosanct  authority.  The  city,  all 
those  who  counted,  showing  themselves,  as  usual,  one  with  regard  to 
what  touched  the  moral  dignity  of  the  community,  banded  solidly 
against  the  imprudent  couple.”  This  quotation  will  suffice.  It  would 
be  profitless  to  continue. 

For  examination  of  what  Rolland  lacks  is  really  useful  only  to  de¬ 
fine  more  clearly  what  he  possesses.  His  virtues  are  absolute  sincerity, 
hatred  of  every  baseness  and  every  hypocrisy,  love  of  heroism  and  of 
divine  music.  All  this  he  has  incarnated  in  Jean-Christophe  Krafft 
and  his  creation  lives.  In  spite  of  the  childhood  memories  of  celebrated 
musicians  which  Rolland  has  levied  upon  in  the  first  volumes,  Jean- 
Christophe  lives  from  L’Aube  where,  in  excellent  pictures  full  of  Ger¬ 
manic  sensibility,  he  discovers  the  world,  injustice,  the  majesty  of  “our 
Father  Rhine”  and  luminous  music.  He  lives,  “a  little  fifteen-year-old 
Puritan,”  in  Le  Matin ;  and,  in  U Adolescent,  he  spends  his  impetuosity 
“in  a  succession<of  insane  forces  and  falls  into  the  void.”  He  lives  in- 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  187 
tensely  in  La  Revolte  where  he  rebels  against  the  stupidity  of  the  Ger¬ 
man  town  and  also  against  “the  false  idealism”  with  which  his  child¬ 
hood’s  idols  are  tainted  and  which  Wagner  did  not  escape.  The 
plebeian  element  in  him,  deeply  rooted  in  life,  manifests  itself  equally 
amid  the  disorders  of  Parisian  society  and  in  his  revolt  against  the 
stupid  suicide  proposed  to  him  by  Anna  Braun.  He  bears  in  his  soul 
the  artist  who  wishes  to  express  himself  and  who  will  succeed.  His 
fevers,  his  sensuality,  his  mystic  union  with  Grazia,  his  grief  after 
Olivier’s  death  are  all  transformed  into  music.  Rolland  has  made  this 
power  of  creative  genius  magnificently  sensible.  In  describing  it,  this 
man  who  is  less  a  writer  than  an  apostle  of  heroism  has  sometimes 
achieved  a  moving  literary  beauty,  as  for  example  the  account  of  the 
resurrection  of  the  musician  at  the  end  of  Le  Buisson  ardent  and  the 
passage  in  L’Aube  where  the  genius  of  Beethoven  haunts  Jean  Chris- 
tophe  asleep :  “This  gigantic  soul  entered  him,  distending  his  members 
and  his  soul,  and  seemed  to  give  them  colossal  proportions.  He  walked 
on  the  world.  He  was  like  a  mountain,  and  storms  raged  in  him. 
Storms  of  fury !  Storms  of  grief !  .  .  .  Ah !  what  grief !  .  .  .  But 
that  did  not  matter!  He  felt  so  strong!  .  .  .  Suffer!  To  keep  on 
suffering !  .  .  .  Ah !  how  good  -it  is  to  be  strong !  How  good  it  is  to 
suffer  when  one  is  strong!  .  .  .” 

Colas  Breugnon  was  not  published  until  1919.  It  had  been  in  print 
since  1914.  Rolland  invites  us  to  see  in  it  the  reaction  against  ten 
years’  constraint  in  Jean-Christophe’s  armour  which,  “fitting  me  at 
first,  had  ended  by  becoming  too  tight” — a  work  of  relaxation  which 
none  the  less  involves  a  sufficiently  clear  intention  revealed  by  this  sen¬ 
tence  from  Clerambault :  “He  was  currently  called  sentimental  by  his 
adversaries ;  and  certainly  he  was ;  but  he  knew  it  and  because  he  was 
French  he  was  able  to  laugh  at  it,  make  fun  of  himself.”  In  telling 
this  tale  of  a  loquacious  Nivernais  of  the  time  of  Louis  XIII,  Rolland 
wished  to  divert  his  contemporaries.  He  does  not  seem  to  have  suc¬ 
ceeded.  He  renewed  the  attempt  in  Liluli,  the  triumph  of  the  Illusion 
which  subdues  to  his  ruinous  designs  a  Master-God  disguised  as  an 
Arab  merchant,  a  Truth  heavily  clad  and  gagged,  a  Reason  which 
has  stolen  its  bandage  from  Love.  It  causes  the  death  of  the 
inoffensive  peasants  Janot  and  Hansot  as  well  as  of  the  noble 
friends  Altair  and  Antares,  it  provokes  war  between  the  Gallipoulets 
and  the  Hurluberloches  and  drags  Polichinelle  himself  down  in  the 
final  catastrophe.  To  heighten  the  jest,  Rolland,  justifying  himself 
by  a  quotation  from  Rabelais,  saw  fit  to  write  Colas  and  Lilidi  in  an 
extraordinary  style  strewn  with  more  or  less  assonant  alexandrins  and 


188  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

octosyllables.  One  will  judge  by  these  two  examples  whether  this  treat¬ 
ment  increases  or  destroys  the  comical  effect  he  was  after : 

“Breugnon,  mauvais  g argon,  tu  ris,  n’as-tu  pas  honte? 

— Que  veux-tu,  mon  ami,  je  suis  ce  que  je  suis.  Rire  ne  m’empeche  pas  de 
souffrir;  mais  souffrir  n’empechera  jamais  un  bon  Frangais  de  rire.  Ft 
qu’il  rie  ou  larmoie,  il  faut  d’abord  qu’il  voie  .  .  ( Colas  Breugnon .) 

“Tout  doux!  tout  doux!  soufflez  un  peu!  quels  derates!  vous  ruisselez ! 
Gare  au  deluge!  Vous  le  fuyez,  de  la  vallee,  et  sur  les  monts „  dans  vos 
paniers,  vous  V apportez!  .  .  .  Mon  ami,  tu  vas  eclater.”  (Liluli.)  1 

In  La  Nouvelle  Journee  Rolland  had  written  that  “Europe  resembled 
a  huge  armed  vigil.”  In  1914'  the  war  broke  out.  He  was  then  in 
Switzerland,  better  situated  than  many  for  keeping  an  open  mind  but 
less  well  perhaps  for  discerning  exactly  where  the  heart  of  France 
beat.  His  enemies  were  able,  with  a  certain  show  of  truth,  to  accuse 
him  of  being  so  easily  au-dessus  de  la  melee  because  he  was  outside  it. 
As  usual  however  his  attitude  was  loyal  and  courageous.  As  earl}'' 
as  August  29,  his  open  letter  to  Hauptmann  virulently  denounced  Ger¬ 
man  barbarism  guilty  of  burning  Louvain ;  but  in  his  famous  article, 
Au-dessus  de  la  melee  (which  has  given  its  title  to  the  volume  in  which 
it  is  included),  Rolland  deplored  and  seemed  to  disapprove  of  “these 
singular  encounters,  Eucken  against  Bergson,  Hauptmann  against 
Maeterlinck,  Rolland  against  Hauptmann.”  One  week  after  the  battle 
of  the  Marne  he  proclaimed  his  internationalism:  “Our  duty  is  to 
build,  both  broader  and  higher,  dominating  injustice  and  national 
hatreds,  the  walls  of  the  town  where  the  free  and  fraternal  souls  of  the 
whole  world  should  assemble.”  When  to-day  we  reread  these  articles 
several  sentences  only  of  which,  malevolently  interpreted,  then  filtered 
into  France,  it  is  easy  to  see  that  the  misunderstanding  was  caused 
above  all  by  interested  enmities  and  the  stupidity  of  the  censorship. 
A  closer  contact  with  the  realities  of  his  country  would  have  warned 
Rolland  that  his  image,  “it  is  then  a  matter  of  waiting,  guarding  one¬ 
self  as  far  as  possible  against  the  madness  of  Ajax,”  had  not  the  same 
meaning  in  Paris  and  in  Geneva.  The  simple  publication  of  the  noble 
Lettre  a  ceux  qui  to’ accusent  would  have  dissipated  every  suspicion  by 

“Breugnon,  you  bad  boy,  you  laugh,  aren’t  you  ashamed?” 

“Well,  my  friend,  I’m  what  I  am.  Laughing  doesn’t  prevent  me  from  suffering; 
but  suffering  will  never  prevent  a  good  Frenchman  from  laughing;  and  whether 
laughing  or  crying,  he  must  first  of  all  see.  .  .  .”  ( Colas  Breugnon .) 

“Gently!  gently!  Take  a  breath!  What  lively  chaps!  You  stream!  Look  out 
for  the  deluge!  You  flee  it,  from  the  valley,  and  on  the  mountains,  in  your  baskets, 
you  bring  it!  .  .  .  My  friend,  you’ll  burst.”  ( Lihili .) 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  189 

showing  that  Rolland  accused  not  the  peoples  but  their  leaders,  the 
intellectuals,  of  having  failed  in  their  most  sacred  duty.  Les  Idoles 
affirms  this  continuity  in  his  meditations  as  a  moralist.  He  reproaches 
the  chiefs  of  European  thought  with  not  having  been  “characters.” 
Faithful  even  in  the  storm  to  the  ideal  of  Beethoven,  of  J ean-Christ ophe 
and  of  Tolstoi,  this  scrupulous  honesty  which  had  made  him  one  of  the 
counsellors  of  the  European  soul  was  incapable  of  admitting  an  excuse 
for  repudiation. 

Perhaps  this  admirable  rigidity  of  a  moralist’s  conscience  has  been 
partly  responsible  for  that  want  of  flexibility  which  is  his  real  artistic 
failure.  His  first  post-war  book  was  awaited  impatiently.  Pierre  et 
Luce  is  merely  a  brief  Parisian  love-story  under  the  menace  of  the 
Gothas,  terminated  by  the  catastrophe  at  St.  Gervais  on  Good  Friday, 
1918;  but  Clerambault,  the  “story  of  a  free  conscience  during  the 
war,”  written  between  1916  and  1920,  is  a  compact  work.  Unfortu¬ 
nately  it  brings  no  rejuvenation.  Rolland  maintains  his  conclusions. 
To  the  false  ideal  of  unanimous  life  which,  confronted  with  the  war, 
ended  in  abdication,  he  opposes  the  heroic  revolt  of  individual  con¬ 
sciences.  He  condemns  equally  “the  insanities  of  the  German  thinkers 
and  the  extravagances  of  Parisian  talkers.”  Without  refusing  his 
homage  to  Lenin  and  Trotzky,  “the  heroic  woodsmen,”  he  rejects  the 
proletarian  dictatorship  as  completely  as  the  ancient  tyranny.  For 
the  moralist  knows  that  the  blemishes  are  in  us  as  well  as  in  our  gov-> 
ernments.  On  the  plane  of  action  we  are  always  coming  up  against 
a  dilemma  of  injustice:  “We  find  there  a  bronze  Dike:  recognized  by 
the  mind,  which  it  can  even  honour  as  a  Law  of  the  universe ;  but  the 
heart  does  not  accept  it.  The  heart  refuses  to  submit  to  it.  Its 
mission  is  to  revoke  the  Law  of  eternal  war.  Will  it  ever  be  able  to 
do  so?  .  .  .  Who  knows?  In  any  event,  it  is  clear  that  its  hope,  its 
will,  spring  from  the  natural  order.  Its  mission  is  supernatural  and, 
properly  speaking,  religious.'’’’  The  writer  insists  that  this  adjective 
which  he  prints  in  italics  be  given  its  full  meaning.  Clerambault’s 
last  word  is,  in  fact,  an  identification  of  Jesus  and  the  free  spirit,  both 
eternally  insurgent,  eternally  crucified,  eternally  renascent. 

Eloquent  pages  do  not,  however,  form  an  artistically  living  work. 
“This  book,”  says  the  preface,  “is  not  a  novel  but  the  confession  of  a 
free  soul  in  the  midst  of  the  storm  .  .  .  Let  nothing  autobiographical 
be  sought  in  it.”  Yet  the  whole  leaves  a  very  equivocal  impres¬ 
sion.  All  the  end  of  the  book,  at  least,  is  purely  romantic,  and  it  is 
the  law  of  the  novel  which  forces  the  author  to  kill  Clerambault.  If  it 
contains  nothing  autobiographical  in  point  of  facts,  it  is  none  the 


190  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

less  difficult  to  admit  that  in  his  numerous  discourses  Clerambault 
alone  is  “occupied  with  expressing  his  overflowing  and  diffuse  ego.” 
Clerambault  is  but  an  idea  of  man.  Jean-Christophe  was  a  living 
man.  Will  Romain  Rolland  remain  the  prisoner  of  his  own  apostolate 
or  will  he  liberate  himself  from  it?  Will  he  see  the  burning  bush  and, 
without  our  respect  for  his  high  “religious  probity”  being  diminished 
by  it,  will  he  give  us  the  book  in  which  he  will  finally  reconcile  the  two 
Frances  which  are  not  opposed  in  the  music  where  the  elusive  Melisande 
receives  the  solemn  kiss  of  the  sage  ArkelP 

3.  INTERNATIONALISM  AND  NATION ALISM 

Verhaeren’s  tendencies  towards  internationalism  were  unequivocally 
declared,  as  early  as  1898,  in  Les  Aubes,  “the  third  and  last  section 
of  a  series  begun  with  Les  Campagnes  hallwcinees  and  Les  Villes  ten- 
taculaires .”  This  drama  where  imagination  and  realism  come  into 
conflict,  where  the  lyrical  couplets  take  flight  from  a  massive  prose, 
has  for  protagonist  the  tribune  Herenien:  “We  are  living,”  he  de¬ 
clares,  “in  dreadful  days  of  terror,  of  agonies  and  of  renewals.  .  . 
Utopia  folds  its  wings  and  lights  upon  the  earth.”  Herenien  has  cher¬ 
ished  the  dream  of  “killing  war”  and  he  realizes  his  project.  He  recon¬ 
ciles  the  inhabitants  of  Oppidamagne  and  the  army  which  besieges  it  in 
a  fraternal  peace.  The  late  enemies  throw  down  or  bum  their  arms. 
It  is  true  Herenien  pays  for  this  triumph  with  his  life;  but  “dawn  is 
breaking,”  that  dawn  prophesied  in  Les  Forces  tumultueuses.  If 
however,  in  such  hours  of  elation,  his  inspiration  passed  beyond  the 
frontiers,  if  Verhaeren  appeared  as  the  new  century’s  Hugo,  the 
sonorous  echo  of  every  contemporary  aspiration,  he  did  not  never¬ 
theless  forget  his  fatherland.  His  genius  did  not  consent  to  soar  to 
abstractions  until  it  had  rooted  itself  in  a  solid,  concrete  reality. 
Though  becoming  European  he  remained  passionately  Flemish.  From 
1904  to  1911  appeared  five  collections  grouped  together  under  the 
general  title  of  Toute  la  Flandre.  Ini  it  he  celebrated  alternately 
youthful  tenderness,  the  garland  of  the  dunes,  heroes,  gabled  towns, 
the  plains.  Tales  of  the  heroic  past,  childhood  memories,  peaceful 
or  hallucinated  landscapes  traversed  by  the  Scheldt,  “sombre,  violent 
and  magnificent” — Verhaeren  revived  all  this  in  a  hymn  of  splendour 
and  of  filial  tenderness.  Intensely  Flemish,  intensely  human,  the 
Epilogue  of  Toute  la  Flandre  exalted  his  two  loves,  each  sustained  by 
the  other. 

After  La  Multiple  Splendeur,  the  high  value  of  which  at  the  con-i 
fluence  of  his  work  we  have  pointed  out,  the  poet  gave  free  rein  to 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  191 

his  lyricism  in  Les  Rythmes  souverains  and  Les  Bles  monvants.  His 
imagination,  taking  toll  of  the  centuries,  roused  magnificent  symboli¬ 
cal  visions  ( Le  Paradis,  Michel-Ange)  ;  or  else,  friendly  and  gentle,  it 
lingered  to  contemplate  “the  luminous  health  of  things”  in  a  familiar 
setting  ( Le  Chant  de  Veaio).  At  times  he  chose  some  humble  way¬ 
farer  on  his  beloved  plains  and,  under  the  sovereign  spell  of  his  speech, 
the  old  village  fiddler  was  transfigured  without  ceasing  to  be  real: 

Doucement,  lentement,  le  vieux  'menetrier 
Se  leve,  et  puis  s’en  va  par  le  prochain  sentier 
Et  puis  s’ efface  et  disparait  dans  le  mystere 
Autoritaire. 

( Le  Menetrier.') 

At  times  he  described  a  leader  of  peoples,  “sincere  and  false,”  strong 
and  cunning,  proud  and  solitary. 

Laissant  sa  conscience  et  s,a  raison  lui  dire 
Qu’il  etait  bien,  en  ce  moment, 

Logiquement, 

Lui  seul,  I’ empire 

( Un  Maitre.) 

a  character  who  has  haunted  his  individualistic  thought,  whom  he  has 
glorified  in  Herenien  and  in  Jacques  d’Artevelde,  whose  ambition  he 
has  denounced  with  a  hostility  mingled  with  respect  in  the  Pollux  of 
Helene  de  S parte. 

There  is  scarcely  a  great  European  poet  who  has  resisted  the  tempta¬ 
tion  to  interpret  in  his  own  manner  these  Greek  legends  which  are  our 
common  patrimony.  The  interest  roused  by  Verhaeren’s  effort  is  suffi¬ 
ciently  proved  by  the  fact  that  his  book  was  translated  into  German 
and  into  Russian  even  before  it  had  been  revealed  to  the  French  public. 
There  is  no  attempt  at  historical  reconstruction,  at  local  colour  in  this 
“lyrical”  tragedy.  The  violent  dramatist  of  Philippe  II  and  of  Le 
Cloitre  is  recognized  in  the  handling  of  the  plot.  Helene  de  Sparte 
shows  the  return  of  the  queen,  soul  and  body  appeased,  resolved  to 
sweeten  IVIenelaus’  old  age  by  her  sober  tenderness ,  but  such  a  beauty 
cannot  appear  without  bringing  love  in  its  train.  Helen  is  assailed  by 
the  passion  of  her  brother  Castor  and  of  Electra  who  should  have  been 
her  enemy.  The  motive  of  the  drama  is  the  fierce  desire  which  adds  two 
murders  to  the  long  list  of  crimes,  breaks  Helen’s  soul  and  delivers  the 
throne  to  Pollux.  The  pathos  of  Helene  de  Sparte  resides  much  less  in 
these  sombre  visions  than  in  the  lyrical  commentaries  they  provoke. 
We  find  here  successively  the  harshness  of  his  first  poems  in  Electra’s 


192  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

imprecations  and  the  gentleness  of  Les  Heures  claires  in  Helen’s  lamen¬ 
tations  after  her  husband’s  death. 

Les  Flammes  hautes,  a  volume  dedicated  “to  those  who  love  the  fu¬ 
ture,”  the  proofs  of  which  were  already  corrected  before  the  war, 
showed  him  still  in  this  attitude  of  supreme  welcome  to  all  humanity, 
with  a  rude  individualistic  and  pantheistic  pride,  with  a  fraternal  ten¬ 
derness  in  that  beautiful  ode  Au  passant  d’un  soir: 

Je  saisirai  les  mains,  dans  mes  deux  mains  tendues, 

A  cet  homme  qui  s’en  viendra 
Du  bout  du  monde,  avec  son  pas. 

The  invasion  of  Belgium  by  Germany  was  a  blow  to  his  ideal.  Les 
Ailes  Rouges  de  la  guerre  is  the  only  book  of  our  epoch  comparable  to 
Les  Chdtiments.  In  splendid  lyrical  accents  Verhaeren  celebrated  the 
valour  of  his  compatriots  ( Ceux  de  Liege),  in  avenging  pages  he  exalted 
France  and  stigmatized  Germany  ( France  et  Allemagne).  He  de¬ 
voted  his  talent  as  poet  and  orator  to  his  country,  and  it  is  known  that 
he  was  returning  from  a  patriotic  lecture  when  he  was  crushed  by  a 
train  at  Rouen,  November  27,  1916.  His  death  robbed  Belgium  of  her 
greatest  French  poet.  Destiny  replied  tragically  to  the  sublime  cry 
of  Love  in  Un  Lambeau  de  Patrie: 

Jadis,  je  t’ai  aimee  avec  un  tel  amour 

Que  je  ne  croyais  pas  qu’il  eut  pu  croitre  un  jour. 

Mais  je  sais  maintenant  la  ferveur  infinie 
Qui  t’accompagne,  6  Flandre,  d  travers  I’agonie, 

Et  t’assiste  et  te  suit  jusqu’au  bord  de  la  mort. 

Et  meme  il  est  des  jours  de  demence  et  de  rage 
Oil  mon  cceur  te  voudrait  plus  deplorable  encor 
Pour  se  pouvoir  tuer  a  t’ aimer  davantage. 

The  book  from  which  these  verses  are  taken  was  dedicated  “to  Mau¬ 
rice  Maeterlinck,  fraternally.”  Full  meaning  must  be  given  to  the 
word.  Before  the  fraternity  of  patriotic  grief,  these  two  noble  Belgian 
writers  had  struggled  for  years,  each  in  his  fashion,  for  human  frater¬ 
nity.  Le  Tresor  des  humbles  and  La  Sagesse  et  la  Destinee  appealed 
to  men’s  experience  only.  In  La  Vie  des  abeilles,  Maeterlinck  explored 
the  secrets  of  animal  life,  from  its  humble  beginnings  patiently  followed 
to  its  highest  movements  poetically  described  in  “the  nuptial  flight.” 
At  the  end  of  this  study  in  which  he  constantly  compared  intelligence 
and  instinct,  he  inclined  to  think  these  two  faculties  had  perhaps  after 
all  a  similar  duty :  “Bees  do  not  know  whether  they  will  eat  the  honey 
they  hive.  We  are  equally  ignorant  who  will  profit  by  the  spiritual 
power  we  bring  into  the  universe.”  In  U Intelligence  des  fleurs,  after 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  193 

quoting  and  commenting  upon  numerous  instances  where  flowers  have 
shown  an  extraordinary  power  of  adaptation  to  the  difficulties  of  their 
environment,  he  concluded:  “The  Earth  Genius,  which  is  probably 
that  of  the  entire  world,  acts,  in  the  vital  struggle,  exactly  as  a  man 
would  act.”  He  believed  himself  authorized  by  his  observations  to  go  a 
little  farther :  “Is  it  likely,”  he  asked,  “when  we  find  such  a  sum  of 
intelligence  scattered  through  life,  that  this  life  should  not  function 
intelligently  ?” 

A  question  divested  of  anguish  by  the  certainty  of  an  affirmative  an¬ 
swer.  Maeterlinck  had  become  a  kind  of  world-adviser.  His  spiritual 
attitude  was  that  of  a  modern  Marcus  Aurelius  repeating  the  words  of 
a  universal  welcome.  “Everything  that  perfectly  befits  you,  befits 
me,  0  World!  Nothing  for  me  is  premature  or  late,  which  is  season¬ 
able  for  you.”  No  problem  appeared  to  him  so  material  as  to  exclude 
a  profound  beauty.  In  Le  Double  Jardin  he  spoke  of  gambling  and 
motoring,  he  praised  the  sword.  In  L’ Intelligence  des  fleurs,  written 
among  the  roses  of  Grasse  the  perfumes  of  which  he  has  celebrated,  he 
considered  with  the  same  gravity  the  passing  of  the  hours,  the  uneasi¬ 
ness  of  our  morality,  the  revival  of  boxing  and  the  poetic  value  of 
King  Lear.  A  moral  essay  in  the  Anglo-Saxon  style  ( Le  Pardon  des 
injures )  was  followed  by  a  minute  analysis  of  scientific  psychology 
(L’ Accident) .  He  studied  with  equal  firmness  the  question  of  im¬ 
mortality  and  that  of  social  duty.  His  speech,  insinuating  to  espouse 
the  complexity  of  things,  recovered,  when  lie  believed  the  time  ripe,  the 
authority  of  the  philosopher:  “There  is,  for  those  who  possess,  but 
one  certain  duty,  which  is  to  strip  themselves  of  what  they  have,  so  as 
to  become  like  the  masses  who  have  nothing.” 

At  this  epoch,  he  seemed  to  reserve  the  subtleties  of  thought  for  his 
dramatic  work.  The  failure  of  J oyzelle  is  highly  instructive.  This 
play  has  against  it  a  complete  artistic  error,  the  employment  of  blank 
verse  which  Maeterlinck  had  already  overdone  in  Monna  V anna.  It 
continues  here  in  long  passages  or,  after  correct  alexandrins,  the  ear  is 
shocked  by  faulty  alexandrins : 

“Tu  dors  profondement,  et  tandis  que  tu  dors,  je  perds  toute  ma 
science  et  redeviens  semblable  d  mes  aveugles  freres,  qui  ne  savent  pas 
encore  qu’il  y  a  sur  cette  terre  autant  de  dieux  caches  que  de  coeurs 
qui  palpitent .”  1 

It  is  surprising  that  Maeterlinck,  master  of  a  musical  prose,  should 
not  hesitate  to  end  an  act  with  this  Cornelian  but  halting  line : 

i  “You  sleep  deeply,  and  while  you  sleep,  I  lose  all  my  science  and  become  like 
my  blind  brothers  who  do  not  yet  know  that  there  are  on  this  earth  as  many  hidden 
gods  as  throbbing  hearts.” 


194 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


“S’il  y  va  de  sa  vie ,  oui.”  “Et  vous,  Joyzelle?”  “Non.”  1 

Joyzelle  further  bewildered  the  public,  however,  by  the  theoretical 
fashion  in  which  the  moral  problem  is  presented.  Here,  as  in  Monna 
V anna,  Maeterlinck  has  sought  the  extreme  case,  all  the  more  convinc¬ 
ing  because  it  is  more  abnormal.  In  the  two  tragedies  the  woman  is 
forced  to  give  herself  to  an  enemy  in  order  to  save  the  man  she  loves. 
Why  does  the  conflict  always  assume  this  sensual  form?  Maeterlinck 
declared  we  no  longer  believe  in  the  importance  of  chastity  since  we 
have  freed  ourselves  from  Christianity.  Did  he  perhaps  wish  to  show 
that  obsession  survived  faith?  However  this  may  be,  it  is  curious 
to  remark  that  three  of  his  plays  come  back,  in  the  last  analysis,  to 
the  same  subject:  a  beautiful  woman  subjected  to  a  terrible  ordeal 
contemplated  by  an  old  man  in  order  to  derive  from  this  crisis  a 
lesson  of  wisdom.  From  such  a  point  of  view  the  progress  is 
manifest.  Melisande  dies  and  Arkel  remains  overwhelmed  by  fatality. 
Vanna  triumphs  thanks  to  Prinzivalle’s  love  and  Marco  can  applaud 
her.  Joyzelle  fights  with  no  external  support  and  Merlin,  at  once 
spectator  and  actor,  salutes  with  his  last  gesture  the  decision  of 
justice.  The  demonstration  is  brilliant  but  it  is  obtained  at  the  price 
of  a  convention  rather  difficult  to  accept  and  the  centre  of  the  interest 
is  displaced.  The  hero  of  Joyzelle  is  Merlin — a  Prospero  whose 
power  “has  nothing  magic  or  supernatural  about  it.”  It  is  for  him 
to  proclaim  Maeterlinck’s  confidence  in  the  soul,  “the  whisper  of  the 
little  voice  which  has  nothing  to  tell  me  but  which  alone  is  right” ; 
for  him  to  prevent  hasty  generalizations :  “Let  us  not  make  laws 
out  of  a  few  odds  and  ends  picked  up  in  the  night  encompassing  our 
thoughts.” 

This  prudence  in  affirming  before  the  unknowable,  which  is  the 
last  word  of  the  Maeterlinckian  Tempest,  is  found  in  an  essay,  LTn- 
quietude  de  notre  morale,  where  his  thought  questions  itself  scrupu¬ 
lously.  He  distinguishes  three  moralities :  that  of  “common  sense,” 
that  of  “good  sense”  and  that  of  “mystical  reason.”  Shunning  the 
first,  he  warns  us  not  to  stop  at  the  second.  We  must  “go  further 
than  simple  justice.  It  is  beyond  this  simple  justice  that  the  morality 
of  those  who  hope  in  the  future  begins.”  Very  few  precepts  are  neces¬ 
sary  and  they  are  not  at  all  complex — those  a  child  could  dictate; 
but  it  is  important  that  they  should  really  have  penetrated  us,  for  “we 
cannot  flatter  ourselves  we  have  understood  a  truth  until  it  is  impos¬ 
sible  for  us  not  to  conform  our  life  to  it.”  Daily,  we  should  profit  by 

i  “If  her  life  is  at  stake,  yes.”  “And  you,  Joyzelle?”  “No.” 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  195 

the  humblest  circumstances  to  awaken  the  sublime  in  us :  “It  is  in 
this  part  of  our  consciousness,  fairy-like  perhaps  but  not  chimerical, 
that  we  should  acclimatize  ourselves  and  find  delight.” 

“Fairy-like  but  not  chimerical.”  It  would  be  impossible  to  invent  a 
better  motto  for  L’Oiseau  bleu.  Maeterlinck  likes  to  reveal  the  link 
between  the  different  stages  of  his  meditation  by  a  recurrence  of  the 
same  gestures,  of  the  same  symbolical  words.  The  tender  expressions 
in  Le  Double  J ardin — “Friendship  without  love  and  love  without 
friendship  are  two  half -happinesses  which  sadden  men.”  “How  would 
feminine  grace  save  had  it  not  its  innocent  vanities?” — are  sisters  to 
Alladine’s  avowal:  “I  love  thee  .  .  .  more  than  her  I  love.”  Joy- 
zelle’s  meeting  with  Lanceor  is  as  mysterious  as  Melisande’s  with 
Golaud.  The  liberation  of  the  stars  and  of  the  nocturnal  perfumes  in 
L’Oiseau  bleu  recalls  the  freeing  of  the  captives  in  Ariane.  The  hu¬ 
mour  and  good  nature  which  we  shall  find  again  in  Le  Miracle  de  Saint- 
Antoine  are  here  mingled  with  dramatic  and  philosophic  scenes  like 
the  revolt  of  the  forest  folk  .  .  .  Never  before  had  Maeterlinck’s  art 
shown  this  ease  which  amuses  children  at  the  very  moment  when  it 
forces  men  to  meditate  upon  their  destiny.  He  has  never  surpassed 
the  profoundly  pathetic  beauty  of  the  Cemetery  and  of  the  Garden  of 
Happiness. 

In  Les  Dieux  de  la  guerre  (1907)  he  denounced  with  dismay  the 
madness  of  men  who,  sole  representatives  of  intelligence  on  earth, 
abandoned  the  mission  of  settling  their  quarrels  to  ill-understood  ex¬ 
plosives  :  “It  is  to  these  unclassifiable  monsters  that  we  confide  the 
almost  divine  task  of  extending  our  reason  and  dividing  the  just  from 
the  unjust.”  During  the  war  he  served  his  country  by  pen  and  by 
speech.  Le  Bourgmestre  de  Stilmonde  is  a  more  effective  testimony 
than  many  an  inflammatory  declamation.  It  is  in  the  same  spirit  of  sober 
indignation  that,  in  the  preface  to  Les  Debris  de  la  guerre,  he  summed 
up  his  militant  labours:  “I  sought  to  raise  myself  above  the  strife; 
but  the  higher  I  rose,  the  more  I  heard  its  cries,  the  better  I  perceived 
its  madness  and  its  horror,  the  justice  of  our  cause  and  the  infamy  of 
the  other.  It  is  probable  that  one  day,  when  time  will  have  wearied  the 
recollections  and  repaired  the  ruins,  wise  men  will  assert  that  we  were 
mistaken  and  did  not  look  high  enough,  that  everything  can  be  for¬ 
gotten,  everything  explained  and  that  everything  should  be  understood. 
This  means  that  they  will  not  know  more  than  we  know  to-day  and 
that  they  will  not  have  seen  what  we  saw.” 

The  problem  of  death  had  always  solicited  his  grave  attention.  It 
filled  his  first  plays  with  fright.  L’ Intelligence  des  fleurs  ended  with 


196  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

an  essay  on  immortality.  In  1913  he  devoted  a  book  to  explaining  the 
“there  are  no  dead”  of  UOiseau  bleu.  Impossible  to  flee  the  idea  of  it: 
it  “clouds  everything  with  its  shadow.”  Our  mistake  is  that  “we 
confide  it  to  the  obscure  hands  of  instinct  and  do  not  accord  it  an 
hour  of  our  intelligence.”  He  undertakes  then  the  investigation,  by 
lucid  reason,  of  the  various  hypotheses — annihilation,  survival  of  con¬ 
sciousness,  neo-theosophical  reincarnation  and  neo-spiritualistic  com¬ 
munications.  He  rejects  the  brutal  imaginings  which,  one  way  or 
another,  do  violence  to  what  we  know  of  life.  He  proposes  “as  the 
most  probable  of  these  temporary  hypotheses”  that  of  “a  modified 
consciousness”  which  reabsorbs  itself  without  annihilation  into  the 
universal  consciousness.  Supported  by  so  much  experience,  he  reas¬ 
sures  the  timid  with  this  pantheistical  consolation :  “The  Infinite 
could  not  wish  us  harm,  seeing  that  if  it  tormented  the  least  among  us 
eternally,  it  would  torment  something  which  it  cannot  wrest  from  itself, 
hence  itself  as  a  whole.”  To  give  way  to  despair  would  be  insane : 
“The  unknown  and  the  unknowable  are  and  perhaps  always  will  be 
necessary  to  our  happiness.” 

Pale  certainties,  it  would  be  easy  to  say,  compared  with  the  assertions 
of  Marcus  Aurelius  and  Spinoza;  but  the  comparison  finally  brings 
into  full  view  the  originality  of  the  position  occupied  by  Maeterlinck. 
If,  like  the  supreme  philosophers,  he  seeks  a  morality,  he  has  taken  care 
to  distinguish  between  “the  morality  of  those  who  remain  on  the  bank  of 
the  great  river  and  the  morality  of  those  who  breast  the  current.” 
Where  their  sole  ambition  was  to  attain  the  truth,  he  intends  to  con¬ 
quer  happiness.  Finally  he  was  sworn  not  to  invoke  that  divine  idea 
which  supported  all  their  systems.  We  know  nothing  which  transcends 
man,  he  declares  again  in  Le  Grand  Secret  where  he  has  passed  in  re¬ 
view  every  form  of  occultism  from  the  earliest  times  to  the  present. 
However  disturbing  “certain  posthumous  apparitions  almost  scientifi¬ 
cally  demonstrated”  may  be,  we  are  not  authorized  to  take  the  decisive 
step :  “We  know,  in  short,  that  there  has  never  been  an  ultra-human 
revelation  .  .  .  and  that  all  man  thinks  he  knows  concerning  God,  his 
origin  and  his  ends,  has  been  derived  by  him  from  his  own  reason.” 
Such  is  the  point  he  has  reached  at  present :  “It  is  little  if  one  loves 
illusion,  it  is  much  if  one  prefers  truth.”  The  inquiry  he  has  carried 
on  for  thirty  years  in  these  veiled  realms  testifies,  at  least,  to  the  prog¬ 
ress  of  an  intelligence  which  has  grown  stronger  without  diminishing 
the  wealth  of  the  soul,  and  he  has  shown  how  a  man  of  our  time  could 
embellish  his  “mystical  reason”  until  it  attained  the  magnificent  trans¬ 
figuration  of  lifain  Les  Jardins  des  bonheurs. 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM 


197 


4.  CHARLES  PEGUY 


Charles  Peguy’s  life  and  work  are  the  most  complete  French 
social  literary  document  between  the  Affair  and  the  war.  They 
bring  the  testimony  of  what  he  called  “the  sacrificed  generation.” 
Born  at  Orleans  in  1873  Peguy  passed  through  the  enseignement  sec- 
ondaire,  the  Ecole  Normale  and  the  Sorbonne,  failed  for  the  agrega - 
tion  and  began  as  a  writer  in,  1897,  with  the  first  Jeanne  d’Arc  “dedi¬ 
cated  to  all  those  men  and  women  who  will  have  lived  .  .  .  for  the  es¬ 
tablishment  of  the  universal  Socialist  republic.”  He  was  then  a 
Marxian  socialist  and  a  Dreyfusist.  It  was  the  epoch  of  Marcel,  pre¬ 
mier  dialogue  de  la  Cite  harmonieuse.  In  1900,  he  founded  Les  Cahiers 
de  la  quinzaine.  De  la  grippe  showed  him  already  at  loggerheads  with 
the  Guesdists  and  studying  “the  decomposition  of  Dreyfusism  in 
France.”  He  soon  broke  with  Jaures  and  with  Combism  in  which  he 
saw  the  political  exploitation  of  a  mystic  victory.  He  seemed  to  hesi¬ 
tate  between  anarchy  and  a  dissident  socialism.  In  1905,  with  Notre 
Patrie  and  Les  Suppliants  paralleles,  he  took  his  stand  as  a  defender 
of  patriotism  and  of  the  traditions,  without  however  joining  any  party. 


A  new  evolution  led  him  to  an  individualistic  Catholicism,  and  it  was 
in  this  last  state  of  mind,  between  1910  and  1914,  that  his  masterworks 
in  prose  and  almost  all  his  poems,  were  composed.  He  was  mobilized 
and  in  September,  1914,  was  killed  at  the  head  of  his  company. 

For  fifteen  years  the  Cahiers  were  one  of  the  centres  of  French 
thought.  They  had  the  honour  of  revealing  to  the  larger  public  the 
Tharauds,  Benda,  Llalevy,  Rolland,  Suares  and  Hamp.  France,  Sorel, 
Vuillaume,  Mille  contributed  to  them.  In  spite  of  the  lustre  of  such 
names  Les  Cahiers  de  la  quinzaine  remain  Peguy’s  monument ;  and  this 
monument  should  not  become  a  tomb  but  a  temple  open  in  the  heart  of 
the  city. 

The  difficulty  of  drawing  a  portrait  of  Peguy  arises  from  the  abun¬ 
dance  of  the  material.  For  fifteen  years  he  filled  the  Cahiers  with  his 
confidences.  Since  his  death  numerous  studies  have  been  devoted  to 
him.  The  piety  of  his  friends  has  revealed  many  details  hidden  during 
his  lifetime.1  Drawing  upon  all  these  sources,  it  is  easier  to  under¬ 
stand  the  evolution  of  the  man  and  of  his  work.  Millerand  very  justly 
indicates  as  his  dominant  passion  a  thirst  for  truth.  To  seek  it  and 
to  tell  it  was  the  program  of  his  Cahiers,  “note-books  of  information, 
without  partisan  spirit.”  “We  shall  tell  the  whole  truth,”  he  an¬ 
nounces.  On  this  point  he  admitted  no  compromise:  “He  who  does 


i  We  must  note,  first  of  all,  the  importance  of  the  Entretiens  taken  down  by  his 
faithful  friend,  Joseph  Lotte. 


198  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

not  bawl  the  truth,  when  he  knows  the  truth,  becomes  the  accomplice  of 
the  liars  and  the  forgers.”  His  distrust  of  Jaures  began  the  day  he 
suspected  him  of  accepting  “a  State  truth.”  He  always  said  brutally 
what  he  considered  the  truth,  even  should  he  be  accused  later  of  con¬ 
tradiction.  Does  he  believe  in  the  truth  of  internationalism?  He  de¬ 
clares  himself  superbly  “a  mason  of  the  coming  city.”  In  1900, 
Catholicism  is  closed  to  him.  He  fights  it :  “There  is  not  only,  be¬ 
tween  the  Catholics  and  us,  the  distance  between  a  vain  imagination  and 
a  sincere  universal  criticism,  but  truly  there  is  the  irreconcilability  be¬ 
tween  a  perverse  imagination  and  a  modest  reason,  friendly  to  health.” 
He  never  stops  half-way.  Unreligious,  he  demands  the  separation  of 
metaphysics  and  the  State.  He  never  hesitates,  if  he  comes  up  against 
a  blank  wall,  to  turn  back  abruptly :  “It  will  never  be  known  how 
many  cowardices  the  fear  of  not  appearing  sufficiently  advanced  has 
made  us  Frenchmen  commit.”  He  wrote  that  in  1905  because,  at  the 
menace  of  a  war,  his  humanitarianism  had  evaporated :  “Every  man 
heard  in  himself,  found,  listened  to,  as  something  familiar  and  known, 
this  profound  resonance,  this  voice  which  did  not  come  from  without, 
this  voice  of  memory  engulfed  there  and,  as  it  were,  heaped  up,  one 
knew  not  since  when  or  for  what.”  He  denounced  the  Pacifist  hypoc¬ 
risy  which  curses  war  and  derives  imaginative  enjoyment  from  the  idea 
of  it.  He  had  never  brought  a  half-courage  to  civil  war  or  to  foreign 
war:  “This  second  loyalty,  which  is  as  much  mental  as  moral,  con¬ 
sists  in  treating  war  itself,  after  it  has  become  inevitable,  as  if  it  were  ( 
war  and  not  as  if  it  were  peace.  Quite  simply,  it  consists  in  really 
fighting,  when  one  does  fight.”  Truth,  in  his  opinion,  never  lies  in  a  ' 
happy  medium.  It  is  extreme,  and  speech  should  equal  it  in  brutality :  s 
Peguy’s  dream  was  to  be 

Le  plus  hardi  faucheur  au  temps  de  la  moisson,  , 

Le  plus  hardi  chant eur  au  temps  de  la  chanson. 

When  war  became  necessary,  he  prepared  himself  for  it,  foreseeing  even 
his  epitaph  as  a  soldier: 

Heureux  ceux  qui  sont  morts  dans  une  juste  guerre!  , 

i 

When  touched  by  grace,  he  came  forward  proudly  “as  a  Christian  and  j 
as  a  Catholic.”  When  he  drew  up  the  balance-sheet  of  his  generation, 
he  did  not  mask  what  appeared  to  him  the  truth:  “It  is  we  who  count. 

It  is  we  who  bear  witness.  It  is  we  who  are  the  proof  .  .  .  We  have 
been  great.  We  have  been  very  great.”  A  volunteer  of  the  militant 
truth,  he  deserves  the  praise  he  accorded  himself : 


seiSZflfifc 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  199 

Nous  sommes  ces  soldats  qui  grognaient  par  le  monde, 

Mais  qui  marchaient  tou jours  et  nont  jamais  plie. 

“Grumble  and  keep  on  marching,”  was  Peguy’s  motto.  All  his  life 
he  was  sustained  by  a  mystic  faith,  by  a  mystic  hope.  The  socialistic 
proclamations  in  Marcel  are  purely  mystical:  “The  harmonious  city 
has  as  citizens  all  the  living  who  are  souls  .  .  .  The  citizens  of  the 
harmonious  city  have  healthy  sentiments  only.”  With  the  same 
serene  affirmation  Madame  Gervaise  will  make  God  and  the  Virgin 
speak,  will  arrange  the  theological  and  parabolical  virtues  hieratically, 
will  describe  authoritatively  the  Eternal  Father’s  wonder  at  the 
miracle  of  hope.  This  power  of  mysticism  dictates  to  Peguy  his  hatred 
lor  the  modern  world  which  abases  everything,  even  death.  It  permits 
him  to  remain  to  the  end,  in  spite  of  bitternesses  and  disappointments, 
“a  republican  soul.”  It  sustains  his  belief  that  “metaphysics  is  per¬ 
haps  the  only  quest  for  knowledge  which  is  direct,  literally.”  Note 
this  “literally.”  It  is  essential  to  Peguy’s  intelligence.  His  mysticism 
is  indeed  concrete.  It  is  realistic,  readily  popular  :  “I  am  not  at 
all  the  intellectual  who  descends  and  condescends  to  the  people.  I 
am  people.”  This  phrase  has  several  meanings.  The  Dreyfus  affair 
appeared  to  him  “an  elect  affair.”  As  early  as  1902,  he  formulated 
the  distinction  between  the  political  Dreyfusists  who  coined  the  victory 
to  the  profit  of  their  sectarianism  and  the  mystical  Dreyfusists,  “the 
perpetual  Dreyfusists,”  who  struggled  for  the  sole  triumph  of  Justice 
and  remain  mobilized  in  its  service — a  leading  idea  he  returned  to  and 
developed  in  Notre  Jeunesse.1  However  violently  Peguy  fought  in  the 
world  of  action,  his  true  fatherland  is  this  mystic  realism.  When 
the  two  universes  conflict,  the  first  is  obliterated  for  it  exists  merely 
as  a  function  of  the  second.  The  last  lines  of  Clio  bear  witness  to  this 
contrast  and  to  Peguy’s  solution  of  it:  “You  cannot  imagine  your¬ 
self  presiding  over  the  fiftieth  series  of  your  Cahiers;  but  you  can  very 
well  imagine,  and  I  imagine  with  you  (‘my  child,’  she  said  to  me  with 
great  gentleness),  what  you  will  think  the  day  of  your  death.” 

What  is  the  content  of  this  mysticism  or,  rather,  about  what  ob¬ 
jects  has  this  mystical  disposition  crystallized?  The  first,  as  well  as 
the  most  profound,  of  the  influences  undergone  by  Peguy  is  that  of 
Bergson,  his  master  at  the  Ecole  Normale,  towards  whom  his  fidelity 

i  For  a  clear  idea  of  this  ideological  liquidation,  of  the  Affair  in  Notre  J eunesse 
and  Victor  Marie,  Comte  Hugo,  it  is  necessary  to  read,  in  addition  to  Georges 
So r el’s  Revolution  Dreyfusienne,  the  Apologie  pour  notre  passS,  by  Daniel  Halevy, 
former  Dreyfusist,  inheritor  of  a  liberal  tradition,  historian  and  critic,  who,  after 
making  the  -figure,  of  his  friend  live  again  in  Charles  P6guy  et  les  Cahiers,  has  be¬ 
come  his  successor  with  the  series  of  Les  Cahiers  Verts. 


200  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

never  failed.  His  last  published  work,  the  Note  sur  M.  Bergson,  is  an 
homage  of  the  vassal  to  the  overlord  who  has  found  the  key  of  a  “new 
rationalism,”  who  gave  philosophy  a  shock  such  as  it  had  not  felt 
since  Descartes.  What  Peguy  praises  Bergson  for  was  having  cleaned 
up  the  old  intellectualism,  having  restored  to  the  mind  a  suppleness 
which  can  espouse  the  complex  sinuosities  of  reality.  Who  does  not 
feel  that  Peguy,  at  bottom,  was  grateful  to  Bergson  for  having  liber¬ 
ated  his  thought  and  his  style  from  all  properly  intellectual  discipline? 
In  the  Note  sur  M.  Descartes,  he  pays  another  debt  when  felicitating 
himself  that,  thanks  to  Bergson,  we  may  hereafter  know  what  we  say 
when  we  speak  of  “habit,  of  ageing,  of  hardening.”  This  terror  of 
the  inevitable  ageing  constitutes,  as  Michel  Arnauld  has  noted,  the 
tragic  haunting  of  Clio.  The  problem  of  history  preoccupied  Peguy. 
In  Zangwill  he  indicated  the  error  of  his  modern  method,  “methodc  de 
la  grande  ceinture.”  His  experience  had  proved  to  him  that  “there  is 
the  real  and  there  is  the  historical  .  .  .  They  are  unwedged  one  from 
the  other,  they  are  unwedged  one  on  the  other,”  as  he  says  in  A  nos 
amis,  a  nos  abonnes,  one  of  his  numerous  personal  apologies.  The 
modern  intellectual  party  pictures,  according  to  him,  “the  succession 
of  the  metaphysics  and  of  the  philosophies* — of  the  religions — as  an 
uninterrupted  linear  progress,  continuous  or  discontinuous.”  If  he 
was  doubly  right,  if  ageing  really  meant  hardening,  if  Peguy’s  dearest 
ideas  were  menaced  with  being  ranged  in  their  place,  in  an  historical 
docket,  Peguy — whose  ideal  was  to  remain  a  living  influence — would  die 
completely.  The  violence  with  which  his  mysticism  identified  itself 
with  the  Bergsonian  doctrine  is  an  instinctive  gesture  of  self-defence. 

Did  Bergson  at  least  offer  him  a  sure  fortress?  Had  not  the  philos¬ 
opher  professed  that,  between  genius  and  talent,  there  are  perhaps  a 
difference  of  nature  and  a  sharp  gap?  How  Peguy  brandishes  this 
sword  which  destroys  all  the  “linear”  explanations  in  La  Situa¬ 
tion  faite  a  Vhistoire  et  a  la  sociologie  dans  les  temps  modernes :  “It 
is  not  absolutely  clear  how  the  essential  works,  Pelerins  d'Emmaus, 
La  Neuvieme,  Polyeucte,  the  Pensees,  are  made.  They  are  given, 
like  life  itself.  Intelligence  would  hurt  them  rather* — ”  principles 
of  a  mystic  aestheticism  which  permit  Peguy  the  better  to  accen¬ 
tuate  the  preferences  of  his  French  and  Greek  culture,  to  praise 
Homer  and  the  tragic  poets,  to  dethrone  Racine  in  order  to  install 
Corneille  in  his  place,  to  repeat  that  “ Polyeucte  is  the  greatest  and 
most  perfect  work  that  will  ever  be  seen.”  However,  even  in  this 
domain  of  coufts  d'etat,  his  mysticism  remains  realistic.  The  most 
curious  example  of  it  is  probably  the  insistence  with  which,  in  various 
works,  he  has  commentated  Hugo’s  poems.  With  him,  Peguy  is  en- 


traditionalism  and  INTERNATIONALISM  201 

tirely  at  ease.  He  ignores  none  of  his  trickeries.  He  enjoys  them 
on  the  contrary,  appreciates  the  skillful  “mortising  of  Napoleon  into 
Hugo”  thanks  to  which  the  poet  has  filled  the  nineteenth  century  with 
his  presence.  Peguy,  the  continuer  of  Le  Roi  Dagobert,  feels  himself 
brother  to  the  Hugo  who,  in  Le  Sacre,  renewed  the  song  of  Malbrouc k. 
He  delights  in  the  audacious  Jerimadeth  which  would  be  sought  in 
vain  on  the  map ;  and  then  Hugo  seems  to  him,  as  opposed  to  the 
“ viellard ”  Leconte  de  Lisle,  the  very  type  of  the  “vieux”  who  knows  how 
to  age  without  his  soul  encumbering  itself  with  dead-wood,  with  “all 
done.”  He  is  the  poet  needed  by  the  French,  by  that  “anti¬ 
thetical  people”  always  however  “acquainted  with  hope,”  as  he  makes 
God  say  in  Le  Porche  de  la  deuxieme  Vertu. 

Let  us  not  be  astonished  that,  through  Corneille,  Hugo  and  the 
French,  Bergson  has  brought  us  to  God.  It  is  the  road  followed  by 
Peguy.  Let  us  add  still  another  intermediary:  Jeanne  of  Arc,  a 
curiously  Bergsonian  Jeanne.  In  the  long  dialogue  of  Le  Mystere  de 
la  Charite,  Madame  Gervaise  has  given  Jeannette  all  the  arguments 
which  would  satisfy  an  ordinary  Christian.  If  she  continues  none  the 
less  to  dream  of  “Orleans,  you  who  are  in  the  land  of  the  Loire,”  is  it 
not  because  she  exercises  the  Bergsonian  privilege?  Jeanne  refuses  to 
enter  into  linear  series.  This  violent  rupture  is  called  genius  in 
aisthetics  and,  in  religion,  sanctity.  Jeanne  is  a  saint  and  Peguy ’s 
Catholicism  is  also  a  saint’s.  No  doubt  he  is  somewhat  disconcerting 
from  a  strictly  orthodox  point  of  view :  “I  live  without  sacraments,’ 
he  says  to  Lotte.  “It  is  a  wager.”  In  the  Descartes  he  warns  us  he 
“took  seriously  everything  in  the  catechism.  When  he  was  little. 
That  has  led  him  far.”  Mgr.  Battifol,  studying  this  Catholicism 
which  would  not  accept  any  other  guide  than  its  catechism,  concluded . 
“Peguy  has  sought  the  peace  of  his  soul  in  his  Porche  of  hope.  He  has 
arranged  that  all  alone,  yes,  but  it  is  not  the  surest  way !  This 
friendly  judgment  stresses  very  pertinently  the  realistic  character  of 
the  mysticism  in  the  Peguy  of  Eve : 

Car  le  surnaturel  est  lui-meme  charnel 

Et  I’arbre  de  la  grace  est  racine  profond 

Et  plonge  dans  le  sol  et  cherche  jusqu  au  fond 

Et  I’arbre  de  la  race  est  lui-meme  eternel! 

His  Jeanne  invoked  the  coming  “of  a  saint  who  should  succeed.”  He, 
too,  conformably  to  the  pragmatic  element  in  Bergsomsm,  aspired  to 
success.  Now  had  he  not  succeeded  when  he  had  had  the  hardihood 
to  give  his  children  to  the  Virgin?  She  had  accepted  and  protected 
them.  He  who  refused  “to  put  morals  and  religion  together”  was  not 


202  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

unaware  of  the  exceptional  character  of  his  situation ;  but  he  was  con¬ 
scious  of  playing  an  exceptional  part  also :  “I  have  a  function.  I 
have  enormous  responsibilities.  At  bottom,  it  is  a  Catholic  renais¬ 
sance  that  is  occurring  through  me.  I  must  see  what  is,  and  hold  fast.” 
He  held  fast  because  he  was  acquainted  with  that  hope  in  which  he 
had  seen  the  most  miraculous  of  virtues.  He  held,  sustained  by  the 
noble  ideal  he  has  defined  in  his  Descartes:  “It  is  not  enough  for 
the  Christian  world  to  reveal  its  being  and  give  the  fullness  of  its 
love  and  of  its  being  before  God.  It  must  also  give  a  certain  high 
image  of  itself  to  the  pagan  world”;  and  he  did  not  conceal  from 
Lotte  his  ambition  to  “cover  in  the  Christian  the  same  surface  as 
Goethe  in  the  pagan.” 

Is  pride  then  Peguy’s  last  word?  It  might  be  believed,  to  hear 
him  speak  of  his  Jeanne  d’Arc:  “And  what  art!  There  are  res¬ 
onances  in  it !  Harmonies  !  There  has  been  nothing  like  it  in  the  way 
of  musical  prose!”  Johannet’s  analysis  rightly  reveals  something  of 
Rousseau  in  him.  In  these  Entretiens  he  speaks  of  himself  as  a  great 
writer;  but  read  the  following:  “The  French  Academy  is  all  very  fine, 
but  I  should  not  be  elected  for  ten  or  fifteen  years,  and  in  the  interval 
I  must  bring  up  my  children  ...  I  have  had  more  than  fifty  articles 
in  the  past  eight  months.  That  has  not  given  me  a  subscriber  ...  It 
is  as  hard  for  me  to  live  as  it  was  ten  years  ago  ...  I  am  poor,  poor. 
I  need  the  Academy  ...  I  have  no  respite.  I  must  have  no  respite. 
Therefore  I  produce  all  the  time,  in  the  train,  on  the  tramway.” 
There  is  the  drama  which  tore  Peguy’s  soul,  a  creative  soul  full  of 
scorn  for  “temporal  fame”  yet  avid  of  this  fame  because  it  would  have 
brought  him  the  money  his  poverty  needed  and  the  honours  for  which 
his  pride  thirsted — honours  the  world  granted  many  others  to  whom 
he  felt  himself  so  superior.  One  must  measure  the  force  of  the  holds 
temptation  had  on  him  the  better  to  admire  the  beauty  of  his  resist¬ 
ance.  For  he  never  gave  in,  he  never  consented  to  keep  silent  as  to 
what  he  deemed  the  truth  in  order  to  conciliate  or  keep  protectors. 
There  is  a  sanctity  in  this  scrupulous  probity.  He  who  so  loved 
the  differentiation  of  words  and  ideas  must  have  been  particularly 
satisfied  the  day  he  distinguished  in  Clio  the  “little  people”  from  the 
“common  people”  with  whom  they  are  too  often  confounded.  His 
Bergsonian  mysticism  found  at  least  this  recompense  that  it  always 
escaped  “that  growing  dullness,  that  ageing  which  turns  a  poet  into  a 
vulgar  man,  and  turns  a  new  man  into  a  vulgar  man,  and  turns  a  man 
of  heart  into  a  vulgar  man.” 

Peguy  then  achieved  his  temporal  salvation.  Is  it  the  same  with 
his  work?  He  often  expressed  this  anxiety,  that  he  might  leave  history 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  203 

— which  judges  by  proofs  alone,  by  the  measurable — no  positive  wit¬ 
ness  of  the  greatness  he  knew  to  be  his.  He  scattered  much  of  his 
talent  in  timely  tracts.  An  extraordinary  spirit  animates  those 
Caliiers  in  which  he  relaxes.  The  subscribers  have  not  forgotten  the 
conversations  in  which  appear  Citizen  Doctor  and  Citizen  Sickman, 
Marcel  and  Pierre  Baudoin  and  Pierre  Deloire.  They  will  not  cease 
to  love  the  pleas  pro  domo  of  Entre  deux  trains  and  Pour  Moi.  The 
“business  manager’s  prose”  and  the  details  of  that  impressive  book¬ 
keeping  will  always  touch  them.  Peguy  will  live  again  for  them  en¬ 
tirely  in  this  title:  Victor-Marie,  Comte  Hugo,  a  moi  Comte,  deux 
mots  or  in  this  parenthesis:  “(In  order  to  know  to  what  extent  the 
Invalides  is  a  perfectly  perfect  monument,  it  must  be  looked  at,  for  ex¬ 
ample,  from  the  drawing-room  windows  of  the  apartment  situated  on 
the  fifth  floor  of  2,  Avenue  de  Villars)” ;  but  the  charm  of  this  familiar 
disorder  will  quickly  pass.  Will  the  comic  Chanson  du  roi  Dagobert 
find  grace?  Or  among  all  these  occasional  writings,  will  not  the  future 
retain  only  a  few  admirable  portraits — Peguy,  Zevaes,  Clemenceau, 
Millerand,  Bernard  Lazare,  “prophet  of  Israel,”  the  man  who  has 
known  best  that  conscience  “is  the  supreme,  the  only  jurisdiction,” 
and  the  dazzling  descriptions  of  Jaures  culminating  in  the  epic  parade 
of  Notre  jeunesse?  Will  this  apology  for  a  past  survive  or  will  there 
remain  afloat  only  the  Jaures,  some  eloquent  protests  and  the  pages 
in  which  Peguy  shows  those  Jews  of  whom  he  flattered  himself  he  was 
the  sole  Christian  confidant  sending  their  prophets  to  the  Ecole  des 
Hautes  Etudes,  section  of  religious  sciences?  Will  the  three  Situations 
be  reduced  to  a  searching  portrait  of  Renan?  In  fifty  years,  will  Clio 
still  be  read,  or  only,  after  a  rapid  summary  of  the  amusing  parody  of 
the  pseudo-scientific  methods  of  the  Sorbonne,  the  powerful  analysis  of 
temporal  optics,  of  concave  or  convex  menisci?  It  is  not  for  those  to 
choose  who  would  like  to  keep  all,  knowing  it  impossible. 

For  there  is  in  Peguy  an  incomparable  confusion.  Bergson  who 
helped  him  so  much  in  other  ways  here  rendered  him  the  bad  service 
of  authorizing  him  to  call  living  order  what  should  really  have  been 
called  disorder.  Not  only  are  his  titles  misleading,  UArgent  with 
U Argent,  suite  constituting,  at  the  same  time  as  a  “work  porch,”  a 
refutation  of  pacifism :  but  he  erected  into  a  method  the  habit  of  speak¬ 
ing  of  everything  apropos  of  everything.  He  remains  at  the  mercy 
of  the  first  text  he  meets,  from  Hegesippe  Moreau  to  the  Gospels.  If 
he  gets  hold  of  an  occasion  for  commentary,  his  whole  development 
bifurcates  No  doubt  he  always  returns  to  his  subject;  but  has  his 
reader  followed  him  in  this  excursion?  That  the  labels  of  the  two 
notes  in  which  he  speaks  of  M.  Bergson  and  of  M.  Descartes,  can  be 


204  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

inverted,  is  not  grave.  What  is  dangerous,  and  dangerous  for 
his  own  fame,  is  that  one  must  go  and  look  in  some  corner  of  the 
Descartes  for  the  best  picture  of  his  proud  simplicity  as  a  peasant,  the 
grandson  of  an  illiterate  woman,  who  has  risen  in  life  and  turns  to¬ 
wards  his  past :  “He  looks  towards  his  race  .  .  .  And  he  goes  back 
and  plunges  not  only  with  joy  into  this  immense  anonymity.  He 
buries  himself  in  it  with  a  secret  joy.  But  he  also  buries  himself  in  it 
with  a  sort  of  accomplishment,  of  crowning,  of  plenitude  of  humility ; 
and  would  he  not  bury  himself  in  it  with  a  crowning  and  a  plenitude  of 
pride?  And  even  more,  perhaps,  with  some  sort  of  taste  and  success 
and  plenitude  of  annihilation.” 

That  is  what  is  beautiful  and  great.  Peguy  is  great  each  time  he 
reconciles  the  two  inspirations  he  has  opposed  at  the  end  of  Dagobert : 
that  of  the  “educated”  and  of  the  “fresh,  of  the  ignorant”  who  have 
learned  nothing  in  books.  His  style  is  that  of  an  educated  man  who 
wished  to  become  ignorant  again,  with  the  result  that  he  makes  us  think 
sometimes  of  the  noise  of  an  automobile  which  cannot  get  started, 
sometimes,  according  to  Johannet’s  ingenious  definition,  “of  the  style 
Bergson  ought  to  have  but  has  not.”  His  one  method  is  obsti¬ 
nate  repetition.  His  thought  moves  only  when  cudgelled  with  words : 
“Such  is  our  meagre  situation.  We  are  meagre.  We  are  thin.  We 
are  a  little  blade.  We  are  as  it  were  crushed,  as  it  were  flattened 
between  all  the  antecedent  generations,  on  one  hand,  and  on  the 
other,  an  already  thick  layer  of  succeeding  generations.”  He 
holds  that  ideas  are  realities  as  concrete  as  things,  that  language 
should  slip  into  their  least  anfractuosities  to  make  sure  of  having  ex¬ 
plored  everything.  “The  same  failure,  two  failures  mutually  com¬ 
plementary,  two  failures  mutually  contrary,  mutually  inverse,  mutually 
reciprocal,  two  failures  the  same,  one  failure  conjugated” — a  dis¬ 
turbing  mixture  of  precision  and  of  nonsense,  of  simplicity  and  of  re¬ 
finement.  It  will  be  found  (two  refinements  mutually  complementary, 
the  same)  in  his  typography.  He  flattered  himself  that  he  manipu¬ 
lated  types  like  words,  made  them  yield  their  whole  meaning.  He  har¬ 
ries  the  question  marks  and  plays  like  a  virtuoso  on  the  parenthesis : 
“A  little  truth(s)”  .  .  .  “It  is  just  as  if  there  were  (no)Sunday  .  .  . 
Now  we  must  work  (during)  the  week.”  It  is  moreover  easy  to  see 
why  he  writes  that  “all  eternity  is  (like)  an  instant  in  the  hollow  of 
the  divine  hand”  or  that  Rembrandt  has  too  often  repeated  “the  same 
design (s).”  1  In  such  refinements  Bergsonism  which  wishes  to  keep 
all  the  concretengss  of  life  in  the  abstract  expression,  overtakes  the  ex¬ 
treme  intellectualism  of  Mallarme. 
iLe(s)  m&me(s)  dessin(s).  Tr. 


TRADITIONALISM  AND  INTERNATIONALISM  205 

Pegiiy’s  characteristic  method  is,  however,  the  enumeration  by  series 
of  appositions  massively  added  up,  forming  a  sort  of  battering-ram: 
“You,  /Chartres,  unique  city  of  France,  unique  cathedral  of  the  world, 
Chartres,  diocese,  unique  city  of  the  kingdom  of  France,  Chartres* 
who  are  consecrated  to  Notre-Dame,  Chartres,  consecrated,  dedicated, 
given  to  Notre-Dame,  Chartres,  who  are  consecrated  .  .  His  verso 
abuses  this  tendency  to  litanize.  The  greater  part  of  the  Tapisserie 
de  Saint  e-Genevieve  is  constructed  on  two  enumerations :  “the  arms  of 
Jesus  .  .  .  the  arms  of  Satan.”  The  whole  achieves  a  powerful  monot¬ 
ony  ;  but  how  many  weaknesses  in  the  detail,  how  many  improvisations 
which  seem  to  be  guided  only  by  the  desire  to  exhaust  the  rhymes  in 
-ure,  in  -esse  or  in  -ri.  He  carries  perversity  so  far  as  to  choose  the  most 
rigorous  form,  that  of  the  sonnet.  It  appears  calculated  to  keep  him 
from  running  over.  Then  he  invents  {Saint e  Genevieve,  1  and 
2)  writing  two  sonnets  the  second  of  which  will  be  merely  a  counter¬ 
trace,  an  amplification  of  the  first.  At  the  beginning  of  the  Mys- 
tere  de  la  Charite,  Jeannette  recites  the  paternoster.  This  done  she 
begins  over  again,  in  the  negative.  Likewise  the  life  of  Jesus  is 
painted  from  a  double  viewpoint,  in  its  reality  and  as  a  negation  of 
all  that  a  son  owes  his  mother.  Subtle  intentions,  but  soon  drowned  by 
an  inexhaustible  loquacity. 

The  share  of  rubbish  is  enormous  in  Peguy.  Everything  contributes 
to  it,  his  qualities  and  his  defects  alike.  Does  he  wish  to  be  simple? 
He  will  make  Hauviette  speak  of  “ ouvrage  bien  faite”  1  and  of  a  ‘Gi¬ 
golo”  1  event.  Madame  Gervaise  will  talk  to  us  of  “the  Virgin  and 
her  boy”  and  of  the  world  which  “bored”  Jesus.  At  times  the  comic 
predominates : 

Ainsi,  dit  Dieu,  tout  se  joue  trois  fois.  Le  prophete  parle  avant. 

Mon  fils  parle  pendant 

Le  saint  parle  apres. 

Et  moi  je  parle  toujours. 

( Mystere  des  Saints-Innocents.') 

He  talks  in  fact  for  two  hundred  pages,  as  Peguy  alone  can  make  him 
talk,  and  the  measure  is  full.  Not  that  he  goes  on  at  random.  There 
is  always  a  construction  in  his  immense  monologues  and  all  the  epi¬ 
sodes  of  Le  Porche  are  welded  within  by  the  common  idea  of  Hope. 
There  is  something  mediaeval  about  Peguy.  His  three  mysteries  must 
be  regarded  as  three  cathedral  porches  with  great  figures:  Jeanne, 
who  mingles  with  her  sanctity  an  ideal  of  “French  knighthood”; 
Mme.  Gervaise,  a  strange  mixture  of  mystic  exaltation  and  of  height¬ 
ened  realism;  Hauviette,  “little  hard-headed  Frenchwoman.”  An  at- 

i  Popular  expressions. 


206  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

tentive  eye  will  discern  there  delicate  figurines,  such  as  the  excellent  por¬ 
trait  of  Joseph  of  Arimathea;  and  in  this  verbal  flux  it  will  retain  and 
isolate  striking  discoveries :  a  life  of  Jesus  framed  by  the  supreme 
mystery,  eternal  damnation ;  the  tragic  imagination  of  a  human  God, 
“father  among  fathers”  who  cannot  bury  his  son,  who  is  wonder- 
struck  at  the  gratuitousness  of  hope,  who  remains  “confounded  at  hav¬ 
ing  been  so  much  loved” ;  the  unforgettable  commentary  on  the  parable 
of  the  lost  sheep,  symbolical  of  hope  so  far  as  to  have  made  it  pene¬ 
trate  the  very  heart  of  the  Divinity.  Since  Browning’s  Saul  no  poet 
had  revived  this  sacred  thrill. 

“It  is  better  to  go  directly  to  God  than  to  his  saints,”  said  Peguy. 
Anyone  who  would  really  like  to  know  what  a  poet  he  was,  in  spite  of 
so  many  imperfections,  should  read,  in  the  Tapisserie  de  Notre-Dame, 
that  Presentation  de  la  Beauce  a,  Notre-Dame  de  Chartres  which  dom¬ 
inates  his  work,  just  as  the  long  pilgrimage  which  lives  again  in  these 
robust  quatrains  dominated  his  life.  The  man  has  completely  defined 
himself  here,  as  peasant : 

Nous  sommes  nes  au  bord  de  votre  plate  Beauce 
Et  nous  avons  connu  des  nos  plus  jeunes  ans 
Le  portail  de  la  feme  et  les  durs  paysans 
Et  I’enclos  dans  le  bourg  et  la  beche  et  la  fosse ; 

as  satirist  and  polemist : 

Nous  arrivons  vers  vous  du  lointain  Parisis. 

Nous  avons  pour  trois  jours  quitte  notre  boutique 
Et  Uarcheologie  avec  la  semantique, 

Et  la  maigre  Sorbonne  et  ses  pauvres  petits ; 

as  rudely  fraternal  to  despair: 

Nous  venons  vous  prier  pour  ce  pauvre  gargon 
Qui  mourut  comme  un  sot  au  cours  de  cette  annee; 

as  Catholic  without  the  sacraments : 

Void  le  firmament,  le  reste  est  procedure; 

as  profoundly  mystical  however: 

Quand  nous  aurons  quitte  ce  sac  et  cette  corde, 

Quand  nous  aurons  tremble  nos  derniers  tremblements, 

Quand  nous  aurons  rale  nos  derniers  rdlements , 

Veuillez  vous  rappeler  votre  misericorde; 

and  capable  of  translating  in  his  lyricism  the  beauty  of  the  most 
precious  sanctqary  of  Christendom: 

Un  homme  de  chez  nous,  de  la  glebe  feconde 
A  fait  jaillir  ici  (Pun  seul  enlevement 


traditionalism  And  internationalism  207 

Et  d’une  seule  source  et  d’un  seul  portement 
Vers  votre  assomption  la  fleche  unique  au  monde  .  .  . 

C’est  la  pierre  sans  tache  et  la  pierre  sans  faute. 

La  plus  haute  oraison  qu’on  ait  jamais  portee, 

La  plus  dro'ite  raison  qu’on  ait  jamais  jetee, 

Et  vers  un  del  sans  hord  la  ligne  la  plus  haute. 

Pegiiy  has  recovered  this  plenitude  of  sense  and  of  sound  in  certain 
pages  of  the  Note  sur  M.  Bergson,  full  of  ingenious  observations  on 
“the  stiff  reason  and  the  supple  reason,”  on  the  Cartesian  reality,  an 
“invested  city,”  on  the  “anticipatory  panics”  of  human  thought. 
There,  this  heavy  form  of  an  army  on  the  march  with  all  its  auxiliaries 
permitted  him  to  say  things  no  other  perhaps  would  have  been  able 
to  express  with  so  much  force:  “We  must  renounce  this  idea  that 
passion  is  troubled  (or  obscure)  and  that  reason  is  clear,  that  passion 
is  confused  and  that  reason  is  distinct.  We  all  know  passions  which 
are  as  clear  as  fountains  and  reasons  on  the  contrary  which  always 
run  after  the  encumbrances  of  their  baggage-trains.  It  cannot  even  be 
said  that  passion  is  rich  and  that  reason  and  wisdom  are  poor,  for 
there  are  passions  which  are  flat  like  billiard-tables  and  there  are  wis¬ 
doms  and  reasons  which  are  as  full  and  ripe  and  heavy  as  grapes.” 

Peguy  died  before  he  had  formed  his  “party  of  men  of  forty.”  He 
lacked  time  to  erect  his  morality  into  a  “civics.”  He  never  knew  the 
meditation  whence  spring  the  great  works  which  impose  themselves 
upon  history.  In  1909,  in  the  most  moving  of  his  Cahiers,  addressed 
A  nos  amis,  a  nos  abonnes,  he  referred  to  the  ironical  fatality  which, 
in  the  presence  of  an  intellectual  history,  concerned  with  precise  results 
only,  persecuted  the  Bergsonians  who  had  spent  their  strength  in  a 
daily  struggle  the  traces  of  which  would  quickly  be  lost:  “We  have 
thrown  our  entire  destiny  into  it ;  but  without  any  historical  result  .  .  . 
but  the  mechanism  was  small  ...  We  have  been  big  in  reality  .  .  . 
We  have  not  been  so  in  the  recording,  in  the  recording-apparatus.  In 
history  .  .  .  We  shall  never  reach  the  audience.”  Now  Intelligence — 
that  intelligence  which  will  have  profited  by  the  Bergsonian  criticisms 
to  embrace  life  more  supply — will  be  able,  even  when  it  has  become 
historian,  to  greet  all  those  animated  by  a  high  passion  for  truth.  As 
if  anticipating  an  early  death,  Peguy,  from  1910  to  1914,  heaped 
volumes  upon  volumes.  He  wanted  to  create,  to  enter  history  vio¬ 
lently.  In  spite  of  this  obstinate  effort,  he  fell  before  he  had  been  able 
to  pride  himself  upon  an  authentic  masterpiecQ.  He  does  not  present 
himself  nevertheless  with  empty  hands,  and  it  would  be  supremely 
unjust  if  he  did  not  “reach  the  audience. 


CHAPTER  VIII 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY 

THE  difficulty,  for  one  who  undertakes  the  study  of  con¬ 
temporary  French  poetry  in  a  sympathetic  spirit,  is  to  clas¬ 
sify  these  writers.  The  too  great  proximity  risks  making  us 
exaggerate  their  resemblances  or  their  differences.  In  an  article  en¬ 
titled  “ Petit  tableau  des  ecoles  poetiques ”  (1913),  Duhamel  com¬ 
mented  upon  Moreas’  death-bed  declaration  that  schools  do  not  exist. 
He  advised  forgetting  these  artificial  groups,  remembering  only  that 
there  have  been  men — an  excellent  point  of  view  for  a  creator  but  diffi¬ 
cult  for  criticism  to  maintain  if  it  is  really  to  inform  the  reader. 
The  obstacle  to  every  excessively  minute  classification  is  that  poetry, 
for  the  past  twenty  years,  has  been  at  once  less  anarchical  in  its 
tendencies  and  less  organized  in  its  schools  than,  certain  declarations 
would  lead  us  to  suppose.  In  a  general  way  it  can  however  be  ad¬ 
mitted  that  we  shall  not  blunt  the  impression  of  ardent  life  which  an 
analysis  of  contemporary  production  should  leave,  if  we  distinguish 
between  the  poets  who  desire  especially  to  continue  a  tradition  of  our 
literary  history  and  those  who,  even  while  they  lean  on  their  predeces¬ 
sors,  proclaim  their  wish  to  innovate.  It  is  permitted  to  hope  that  a 
table  presenting  the  poets  according  to  the  affinities  revealed  by  their 
works,  much  more  than  by  the  titles  of  the  reviews  in  which  they  are 
brought  together  by  accident,  will  have  some  chance  of  being  complete 
without  becoming  arbitrary.  It  will  be  varied  by  the  very  fact  that 
the  traditionalists  will  be  attached  to  their  origins  and  the  innovators 
situated  according  to  the  degree  of  their  original^.  Perhaps  it  will 
be  perceived  that  the  demarcations  are  less  rigorous  than  would  have 
been  supposed  in  undertaking  the  description  of  a  period  in  which  all 
the  great  influences  of  the  literary  past  are  active ;  in  which  poetry  es¬ 
says  to  transpose  to  its  use  the  most  recent  discoveries  of  the  other 
arts,  of  science,  even  of  industry ;  in  which  classical  renaissance  and 
search  for  new  paths  have  not  ended  in  a  sterile  chaos,  since  already 
the  works  of  Claudel,  Romains  and  Valery  stand  forth,  opposed  and 
powerful ;  and  one  will  meditate,  in  conclusion,  the  example  of  this  last 
integrating  Mallarme  and  Malherbe,  just  as  the  master  of  all  con¬ 
temporary  poetry,  Charles  Baudelaire,  fused  Romanticism  with  Clas¬ 
sicism  in  this  conclusion: 


208 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  209 

Loin  des  peuples  vivants,  errantes,  condamnees, 

A  travers  les  deserts  courez  comme  des  loups; 

Faites  votre  destin,  ames  desordonnees , 

Ft  fuyez  Vinfini  que  vous  portez  en  vous! 

1.  ROMANTICS  AND  SYMBOLISTS 

“The  magnificent  lyrical  outburst  which  has  been  called  Symbolism, 
is  still  alive  .  .  Thus  spoke  Jean  Royere  in  April,  1920,  in  an 
address  to  Paul  Fort.  Symbolism  still  lives  since  Yerharen  was  to  the 
end  surrounded  with  an  equal  respect  by  all  the  schools,  since  Viele- 
Griffin  and  Kahn  have  kept  their  admirers,  since  Jammes  has  re¬ 
mained  Jammes,  since  Henri  de  Regnier  has  reconciled  Symbolism 
with  the  Academy,  even  during  the  war  with  academicism,  aveng¬ 
ing  himself  for  this  “hardening”  with  a  series  of  artistic  and  libertine 
novels. 

Symbolism,  however,  does  not  live  in  this  sense  only  that  it  outlives 
itself,  or  even  because  a  number  of  poets  in  rebellion  against  its  doc¬ 
trine  experience,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  the  influence  of  Rim¬ 
baud  and  of  Mallarme.  Symbolism  is  an  active  force  in  La  Phalange 
and  in  Jean  Royere.  That  poet,  in  the  preface  to  Eurythmies,  de¬ 
clared  himself  partisan  of  “a  poetry  which  constrains  the  reader  to 
as  much  initiative  as  the  writer.”  He  claimed  to  descend  from  Mal¬ 
larme  and  it  is  surely  a  soft  Mallarmean  echo  that  we  find  in  these 
verses : 

Sous  I’yeuse,  ou  se  traine  un  jour  decolore, 

Cherche,  silencieux,  quelque  rive  hagarde: 

La  brise  au  roc  poll  qu’un  doigt  fantome  garde 
Le  reflet  palissant  du  del  transfigure. 

“Continuer  of  Symbolism”  is  also  the  title  which  suits  Leon  Deubel, 
the  poet  of  Ailleurs  and  of  Le  Chant  des  Routes  et  des  Reroutes.  He 
has  not  surpassed  his  models,  Baudelaire,  Laforgue,  Verlaine, 
Samain  and  Mallarme,  and  we  know  he  was  never  satisfied  with  what 
he  had  written.  His  verses  (collected  by  Pergaud  in  Regner),  too 
often  bear  witness  to  that  factitious  attitude  he  has  described: 

Le  jour  est  fane  comme  une  tenture, 

Et  je  prie  dans  I’ombre  un  dieu  d’election 
De  laisser  venir  a  mot  Vimpression, 

Car  je  ne  suis  plus  que  litterature. 

In  Le  Tombeau  du  Poete  and  Stances  au  Poete,  on  the  contrary,  is 
heard  a  firm  voice  which  promised  to  express  new  truths;  but  Deubel 
killed  himself  at  the  age  of  thirty-four. 


210  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

It  is  neither  by  the  thousands  of  doggerel  verses  in  the  trilogy  of 
Antonia  or  Poesies  nor  by  the  insipid  rhapsodies  composing  Les 
Lauriers  sont  coupes  that  Edouard  Dujardin  helps  Symbolism  to 
survive;  but  he  has  written  a  study  De  Mallarme  a,u  prophete  Ezechiel 
and  his  adventurous  career  as  editor  of  reviews  ( La  Revue  indepen- 
dante.  La  Revue  des  Idees,  Les  Cahiers  idealistes )  deserves  a  little' 
of  the  interest  which  his  work  seeks  in  vain  to  excite. 

Theo  Varlet  was  a  Symbolist  by  certain  of  his  masters.  A  man  of 
the  “Christian  North”  and  remembering  Laforgue,  he  slaked  his 
“Psyche-Bovary”  with  irony:  but  already,  in  those  sombre  countries 
of  which  he  drew  violent  pictures,  he  envied  Rimbaud’s  flight,  he 
aspired  to  devote  himself,  body,  heart  and  brain,  “to  the  great  pagan 
morning.”  He  thus  rejoins  Romanticism — -a  Romanticism  highly 
colored,  magnified  by  that  assimilation  of  all  the  scientific  discoveries 
he  utilizes  in  the  planetary  novels,  Les  Titans  du  del  and  L’Agonie  de  la 
Terre,  a  grandiose  epic  of  the  Martians  embarking  for  the  conquest 
of  the  sun. 

Fagus,  whose  complete  work  will  form  a  whole  under  the  general 
title  Stat  Crux  dum  volvitur  orbis,  has  recently  touched  the  larger 
public  with  the  Danse  macabre,  a  poem  composed,  he  says,  like  all  his 
other  works,  “with  the  idea  of  a  musical  gloss  at  the  back  of  my 
head.”  The  victim  of  this  danse  macabre  is  human  love  the  legendary 
heroes  and  heroines  and  the  poets  of  which  pass  by,  swept  along  in  a 
movement  of  rutilant  energy. 

Paul  Fort’s  Ballades  franqaises  were  at  once  favourably  received  by 
those  who  guide  opinion.  Gourmont  greeted  him  as  the  “most  curious 
figure  of  the  second  Symbolist  generation.”  Independent  critics  and 
official  critics,  so  often  opposed,  have  always  concurred  in  affirming 
that  he  had  not  obtained  the  reputation  he  deserved.  Neither  the 
founding  of  the  Theatre  d’ Art,  nor  his  role  in  Vers  et  Prose,  nor  the 
title  of  Prince  of  Poets  borne  by  him  since  1912,  has  been  able  to  win 
him  all  the  readers  he  was  entitled  to.  The  blame  has  been  attributed 
to  his  style  which  is,  indeed,  as  Pierre  Louys  defined  it,  “a  new  style.” 
Perfectly  regular  stanzas  have  been  extracted  from  the  prose  where  he 
places  them: 


L’herbe  de  la  prairie  ou  glissait  For  de  Fair 
Soulevait  des  vapeurs  et  grisait  mon  emoi ; 

La  luzerne  et  le  thym,  par  flots  lissant  la  terre, 

Venaient,  flots  de  senteur,  s’eperdre  jusqu’a  moi 

( Les  Boeufs.') 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  211 

borne  annoyance  is,  in  fact,  experienced  in  transcribing  this  admirable 
classical  stanza  in  the  form  the  poet  has  given  it:  “Oui,  le  del  a 
frappe  deux  fois  le  meme  lys  du  meme  eclair  fidele!  J’irais  cueillir,  je 
veux  aider  Amaryllis  a  cueillir  Vasphodele .”  The  sacrifice  is  the  more 
painful  that  Paul  Fort’s  verse  is  the  verse  of  a  very  supple  Sym¬ 
bolist,  that  he  reconciles  Romantic  eloquence  with  Gallic  good  sense 
and  that  this  poet  knows  how  to  compose  a  stanza  with  the  art  of  the 
finest  craftsman  of  the  Pleiade. 

We  must  however  bow  before  the  motives  he  has  given  as  early  as 
1898,  in  the  preface  to  Le  Roman  de  Louis  XI:  “As  for  the  form,  I 
have  attempted  to  indicate  the  superiority  of  rhythm  over  the  artifice 
of  prosody.  In  so  many  words,  I  have  sought  a  style  capable  of  pass¬ 
ing,  at  the  will  of  the  emotions,  from  prose  to  poetry  and  from  poetry 
to  prose,  rhythmical  prose  furnishing  the  transition.  The  verse  fol¬ 
lows  the  natural  elisions  of  the  language.  It  presents  itself  as  prose, 
every  difficulty  of  elision  disappearing  in  this  form.  Prose,  rhythmical 
prose,  verse,  no  longer  form  but  a  single  graduated  instrument.” 
Fort’s  essential  design  is  clear.  He  wishes,  by  the  employment  of 
rhythmical  prose,  to  safeguard  the  unity  of  his  thought  and  those  con¬ 
stant  passages  from  one  register  to  another  which  enchant  his  reader. 
If  our  hesitations  are  not  entirely  unjustified  (for  “every  difficulty 
of  elision”  does  not  disappear  as  quickly  as  he  declares,  and  his 
elisions  have  provoked  learned  controversies),  he  is  none  the  less  right 
on  the  whole  and  Gourmont’s  conclusion  remains  just:  “Paul  Fort’s 
talent  is  a  manner  of  feeling  as  much  as  a  manner  of  speaking.” 

Some  of  Paul  Fort’s  friends  have  congratulated  him  on  not  exist¬ 
ing,  on  being  merely  a  mythical  person,  a  sort  of  Homer  in  whom  many 
rhapsodists  have  collaborated — an  ingenious  way  of  stressing  his  pro¬ 
digious  mobility.  How  he  must  have  smiled  at  this  praise  in  his  con¬ 
sciousness  of  a  vigorous  personality  manifesting  itself  in  failure  as  well 
as  in  success.  For  he  is  not  unaware  that  the  Symbolist  Repons  de 
VAube  et  de  la  Nuit  or  Les  Voiles  de  mon  navire  do  not  represent  his 
best  and  that  the  Henry  III  of  his  Vision  romantique  is  rather  common- 
placely  melodramatic.  Not  that  he  is  incapable  of  animating  human 
characters.  He  has  made  the  heroes  of  chivalry  and  the  magician 
Merlin  live  again  in  the  forest  of  Broceliande.  He  has  evoked  an  un¬ 
forgettable  Louis  XI :  “Curious  man  .  .  .  cunning  .  .  .  my  sweet 
little  Louis  XI  .  .  .  Dear  chestnut-merchant,  how  well  you  succeeded 
in  drawing  the  Burgundian  chestnuts  out  of  the  fire !”  His  taste  for 
popular  imagery,  which  had  led  him  to  Jeanne  d’Arc,  served  him 
during  the  war  to  glorify  Joffre  and  to  inveigh  against  von  Flatten- 


212  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


berg.  In  La  Guirlande  an  gentil  William,  he  has  succeeded  in  making 
the  Shakespeare  of  Midsummer  Night's  Dream  speak  without  being 
ridiculous — the  Shakespeare  whom  he  resembles  through  so  many 
comic  inventions  the  best  of  which  is  Coxcomb  ou  V Homme  tout  nu 
tombe  du  Paradis.  In  telling  this  story  in  which  God  swears:  “Nom 
de  Moi,”  in  which  Coxcomb,  who  has  stolen  the  seven  souls  of  “Messires 
Socrates,  Hamlet  and  Triboulet,  Galileo,  Confucius,  Caesar  and  Mo¬ 
hammed,”  lands,  at  the  end  of  his  celestial  adventures,  in  Normandy, 
where  two  gendarmes  arrest  him,  Paul  Port  has  truly  “flown  on  the 
wing  of  Fantasy.”  One  would  have  to  be  ill-disposed  indeed  to  refuse 
to  follow  him  or  to  listen  to  him  relate  the  La  Pit  ease  Bataille  de 
Montlhery  or  La  Peche  miraculeuse. 

Paul  Fort’s  dominating  sentiment  is  love  of  nature.  Idylles  antiques 
testifies  that  he  has  been  able  to  love  its  largest  perspectives,  peopling 
it  with  divinities  who  are  not  frigid  imaginations  for  him;  but  his 
favourite  landscape  are  those  of  the  Ile-de-France.  He  has  sung 
Coucy-le-Chateau  and  Gonesse  and  La  Ferte-Milon  and  “Senlis  with 
its  turtle-doves,”  as  tirelessly  as  his  friend  Jammes  has  celebrated  the 
Orthez  country-side.  He  has  consented  to  love  Normandy,  Touraine, 
Blesois  and  Vendomois.  The  centre  of  his  tenderness  is  however  that 
Paris  sentimental  where  he  follows  Manon  to  the  Luxembourg,  to  Bul- 
lier,  on  the  Pont  au  Change: 

Sur  les  jolts  ponts  de  Paris,  les  quais  et  les  ponts ,  garde-fou,  garde-fol, 
sur  les  ponts  de  Paris  jolt,  les  quais  et  les  ponts,  gardez  votre  folie. 

(JSur  le  Pont  au  Chang e.j 


This  love  of  nature  has  shaded  his  conception  of  love,  inspiring  it 
with  its  delicacies: 


Tremble  comme  un  tremble, 
doux  comme  la  soie. 


Contre  mon  cceur  sois  un  rayon  qui  tremble 

( Clair  de  lune .) 


It  has  also  dictated  the  conclusion  of  the  Vision  sentiment  ale :  “Le  mal- 
heur  s’efface  comme  une  ride  sur  Vonde and  of  that  Lien  d’amour 
which  is  one  of  his  masterpieces : 


Pourquoi  renouer  V amourette?  C’est-y  bien  la  peine  a* aimer?  Le 
cable  est  casse,  fllette,  et  c’est  toi  qu’a  trop  tire. 

The  assurance  of  joy  in  living  nature  reflected  in  Montague,  Foret, 
Plaine,  Mer,  gives  Paul  Fort  a  philosophy : 

“I  should  like  to  caress  Nature  with  my  fingers,  like  a  beautiful  in¬ 
strument  responding  to  my  dream,”  he  writes  in  Les  Hymnes  de  Feu. 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY 


213 


“One  must  not  believe  in  death,”  he  had  said  in  La  Berceuse  pour  les 
agonisants.  Pie  repeats  it  in  La  Vision  cosmique.  The  poet  flowers 
again  like  Nature  and  opposes  to  it  an  equal  force  of  creation.  His 
tendency  to  mocking  irony  might  well  induce  him  to  entitle  a  volume 
Chansons  pour  me  consoler  d'etre  heureux.  That  should  not  mask  for 
us  the  serene  gravity  of  the  affirmation  winch  dominates  U  Aventure 
eternelle : 

Poete  je  le  suis.  Uniquement  poete.  Autrement  dit  reveur,  createur 
conscient.  Autrement  dit  surtout  dieu  creant,  dieu  revant.  Et  Vun  des 
plus  creant ,  revant  de  la  planete. 

( Vivre  en  Dieu.) 

Paul  Fort  is  never  more  a  “conscious  creator”  than  at  those  mo¬ 
ments  when  he  expresses  a  generous  thought  in  the  form  of  a  popular 
ballad,  with  a  truly  “French”  accent. 

2.  THE  TRADITIONALISTIC  POETS 

The  return  to  the  traditional  forms  had  been  for  Moreas  a  literary 
necessity.  It  was,  for  others,  the  consequence  of  a  political  conviction. 
Jean-Marc  Bernard  posed  as  the  type  of  partisan  poet.  He  published 
Sub  tegmine  Fagi  and  Pages  politiques  des  poetes  franqais,  in  which 
this  disciple  of  Maurras  revealed  above  all  the  poverty  of  the  royal¬ 
ist  inspiration  in  our  classics.  In  his  collection  of  Amours,  Bergeries 
et  Jeux  parody  held  a  large  place.  A  rather  obvious  quatrain  placed 
Sub  tegmine  Fagi  under  the  protection  of  Fagus,  after  a  preface 
(“Those  who  saw  everything  with  displeasure  deem  time  has  probably 
been  wasted.  No.  Stephane  Mallarme”)  which  was  by  far  the  witti¬ 
est  page  in  the  book — very  superior  certainly  to  the  cold  mockery  of 
the  Symbolist  exclamations  and  a  colourless  translation  of  the  quat¬ 
rains  of  Omar  Khayyam.  Henri  Clouard  congratulated  J.-M.  Bernard 
on  having  written  “poems  which  perhaps  show  merely  talent  but  in 
which  the  echo  of  no  bad  master  is  heard.”  The  best  of  these  verses 
are  indeed  merely  faithful  pastiches  of  Moreas. 

Paul  Drouot’s  first  volumes,  La  Grappe  de  raisin  and  Sous  le  vocable 
du  chene  were  very  promising.  To  translate  the  melancholy  brought 
by  him  from  his  native  Ardennes,  he  found  accents  in  which,  as  in 
Moreas,  the  fever  was  disciplined  into  images.  The  unfinished  Fury- 
dice  deux  fois  perdue,  a  prose  poem  in  which  passion  achieves  strokes  as 
piercing  as  this : 

Amie,  amie,  je  ne  puds  plus  me  taire!  J e  me  donne  a  toi  comme  la i 
cloche,  tout  entiere  dans  chacun  de  ses  battements,  se  donne  au  soleil  qui 
va  disparaitre  sous  Vhorizon  noir  .  .  .  , 


214  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

has  sharpened  the  regrets  inspired  by  the  loss  of  this  poet  who  died  for 

France. 

Jean-Louis  Vaudoyer  does  not  ignore  the  charms  of  his  epoch,  as 
shown  by  Les  Papiers  de  Cleonthe  in  which  the  nonchalant  fantasy, 
sustained  through  two-thirds  of  this  novel  without  action  abruptly 
gives  way  to  a  study  of  “crystallization  on  the  void,”  whose  nudity  is 
surprising  after  so  many  artificially  graceful  pages.  There  is  the 
same  double  inspiration  in  his  poetical  work.  Rayons  croises  contains 
a  moving  homage  to  Drouot’s  memory  and  pretty  evocations  of  Tamar 
Karsavina  in  her  various  roles.  Yaudoyer’s  muse  has  the  voice  of 
a  Chenier  who  had  read  Baudelaire  and  triumphs  in  noble  elegiac 
verses. 

Roger  Allard,  an  admirer  of  Angellier  and  an  impulsive  critic,  has, 
from  Le  Bocage  amoureux  to  the  Elegies  martiales,  through  L’Apparte- 
ment  des  Jeunes  Filles,  sung  youth  and  juvenile  health  with  the  spright¬ 
liness  appropriate  to  luxurious  editions  dedicated  to  Baudelaire,  Tris¬ 
tan  l’Hermitte  et  Du  Bellay.  The  grace  of  lettered  pastiches  like  the 
Epigramme  a  une  Inconstante  permits  us  to  hope  from  this  clever  poet 
an  original  work  to  which  the  Elegies  martiales  will  have  been  the  pre¬ 
lude.  For  even  the  traditionalists  are  not  chained  to  a  unique  dogma 
at  a  time  when  we  see  Alfred  Droin  remaining  faithful  to  the  inspi¬ 
ration  which  dedicated  La  Jonque  victorieuse  to  Sully-Prudhomme, 
Lucien  Dubech  discreetly  striving  to  follow  the  tradition  of  Mal¬ 
herbe,  Alexis  Crouet  insinuating  Anatole  France’s  disquietude  into  the 
rhythms  of  Lecomte  de  Lisle,  and  Robert  Maurice  treating  the  Ver- 
haeren  of  the  Flemish  pictures  as  a  classic  model. 

Joachim  Gasquet’s  personality,  his  love  for  all  the  forms  of  the 
“conquering  art,”  had  gained  him  unanimous  sympathies  and  his  pre¬ 
mature  death  is  still  too  recent  for  his  work  as  yet  to  be  judged  ob¬ 
jectively.  This  neo-Classicist  will  remain  associated  with  a  revival  of 
Romantic  eloquence.  The  Hymnes,  attempts  at  Pindaric  odes,  im¬ 
passioned  commentaries  on  the  Marseillaise  and  Le  Chant  du  Depart, 
present  a  rather  official  lyricism.  An  undeniable  popular  power  mut¬ 
ters  in  Le  Chant  du  Retour  and  Le  Hymne  au  Vin.  Yet  Gasquet  does 
not  always  obtain,  by  raising  his  voice,  the  lyrical  transports  at  which 
he  aims.  Gasquet’s  Provenfal  enthusiasm  is  sincere.  II  y  a  une 
volupte  dans  la  douleur,  a  stormy  story  of  a  loveless  voluptuousness, 
contains  beautiful  pages  of  a  sensual  pantheism  with  reminiscences  of 
Valery  and  Cezanne,  the  two  masters  whom  Gasquet  has  so  nobly  under¬ 
stood  and  presented.  Le  Bucher  secret  proceeds  from  the  same  vein ; 
and  yet,  through  the  grandiloquent  romanticism  of  these  evocations  of 
Tristan  and  Romeo  which  give  true  passion  an  unjust  appearance  of 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  215 

insincerity,  are  distinguished  the  accents  of  an  art  purified,  warned,  as 
it  were,  by  suffering: 

II  fait  triste  .  .  .  Une  lune  inquiete  s’  enlace 

Au  cou  de  mes  cypres  qui  ne  la  sentent  pas. 

C’est  encore  un  jour  vain,  un  de  mes  jours,  qui  passe. 

Je  Ventends  dans  mon  ombre,  6  ma  mort  .  .  .  Parle  bas. 

Among  the  traditionalists  ranks  also  Louis  Mercier  whose  noble 
religious  poems,  Lazare  le  Resuscite  and  Pilate,  aim  at  an  evangelical 
simplicity  rather  than  at  the  Old  Testament  luxuriances  and,  rather 
than  at  lyricism,  at  that  eloquence  which  flouts  eloquence  only  when 
it  has  honestly  exhausted  all  its  resources ;  in  which  his  Catholic 
work  forms  a  contrast  with  the  Poemes  visionnaires  and  the  Poemes 
expiatoires  of  Loys  Labeque  who  occasionally  recovers,  through  much 
verbiage,  the  harsh  accent  of  Corbiere. 

Albert  Lantoine,  a  poet  haunted  by  Lust  and  by  Death,  a  uniformly 
sumptuous  prose-writer  whose  “enamel  tongue”  was  praised  by 
Huysmans,  has  constructed,  in  L’Arv'eugle  aux  colombes,  three  narra¬ 
tives  resembling  sarcophagi.  To  break  the  dreary  tedium  of  classico- 
Parnassian  pastiches  is  needed  the  sentiment  of  Charles  Derennes’ 
Persephone  or  the  ingenuity  of  Leon  Verane  and  of  Georges  Gabory 
who  rejoin  the  Fantaisists,  or  else  the  attachment  to  a  locality  of  Leon 
Bocquet,  founder  of  Le  Beffroi  at  Lille,  of  Marc  Lafargue  and  Em¬ 
manuel  Delbousquet,  representatives  of  the  Toulouse  group. 

7  Among  them  all  stands  forth  Pierre  Camo,  Baudelaire’s  pupil  for 
sensuality,  Regnier’s  for  music,  whose  artistic  sympathy  extends  from 
Ronsard  to  Gauguin,  singing  Saracen  beauty,  adorning  Imerian 
beauty  with  French  roses,  always  brought  back  to  amorous  youth:  / 

Et  je  reviens,  sur  ta  poitrine  chaleureuse. 

Poser  mon  front  exempt  de  trouble  et  de  souci, 

Et  retrouver,  au  sein  du  bienfaisant  oubli, 

Le  silence  et  I’odeur  de  la  mort  tenebreuse. 

( Les  Beaux  Jours. ) 

Paul  Geraldy  is  the  most  celebrated  of  our  society  poets.  Toi  et 
Moi  is  the  canticle  of  a  love  which  trifles  at  times  but,  in  moments  of 
energy,  aspires  to  go  beyond  this  game.  Then  the  lovers  of  Toi  et 
Moi  attain  the  level  of  thought  and  meditate:  y 

C’est  de  cette  erreur  profonde 
que  maintenant  nous  souffrons. 

On  ne  fait  pas  tenir  le  monde 
derriere  un  front. 


216  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

As  long  as  the  balance  is  thus  maintained  between  such  poetry  and  its 
object,  we  should  have  bad  grace  to  protest;  but  when  this  tittle-tattle 
choses  one  of  the  great  love  themes  which  the  genii  have  placed 
under  the  protection  of  good  taste,  then  indecency  begins.  It  is  pain¬ 
ful  to  have  to  remind  the  author  of  the  piece  entitled  Dualisme  that  this 
subject  has  been  treated  in  the  second  act  of  Tristan  et  Isolde 

Maurice  Magre  has  not  had  a  success  comparable  to  Geraldy’s.  He 
deserved  it  however  by  what  Duhamel  defined  as  “a  sort  of  courageous 
contempt  for  art,”  by  his  persistency  in  singing 

Le  mouvement  qui  fait  de  tout  corps  feminin 
un  elan  de  beaute  vers  des  nuits  tenebreuses. 

More  skilfully,  Francis  Porche  has  decorated  with  literature 
the  fundamentally  prosaic  quality  of  his  inspiration  in  which  the 
stereotyped  and  the  softly  sensual  alternate.  All  his  plays  exploit 
this  false  ingenuousness.  He  makes  an  artistic  virtue  of  his  ina¬ 
bility  to  equal  Rostand’s  virtuosity.  In  L’Arret  sur  la  Marne  some 
traits  of  mannered  picturesqueness  still  passed  muster  thanks  to 
the  emotion  which  provoked  this  rhetorical  display.  The  platitude  of 
the  Poeme  de  la  Deliverance  no  longer  has  this  excuse  and  the  poet 
who,  in  Nous,  wrote: 

Que  Paris,  dans,  la  nuit  a  peine  commencee, 

Quand  les  lampes  partout  s’allument  dans  V air  bleu, 

Est  delie,  subtil  et  brillant  de  pensee! 

seems  to  have  received  the  whole  mortal  heritage  of  Francois  Coppee. 

3.  FEMININE  ROMANTICISM 

Under  the  above  heading,  Charles  Maurras  grouped,  in  1903,  “four 
gentle  woman-headed  monsters.”  If  to-day  he  enlarged  this  quartette 
into  a  septette,  he  would  doubtless  show  some  indulgence  for  the  wise 
Minerva  of  Mile.  Charasson  whom  Marcel  Boulenger  has  slandered  by 
comparing  her  Attente  to  the  Chansons  de  Bilitis.  Cceur  M agnifique, 
by  Mme.  Jane  Catulle-Mendes,  purely  bookish  in  inspiration,  would 
find  no  grace  in  his  eyes,  but  he  would  bow  before  the  pathetic  sincerity 
of  the  Priere  sur  VEnfant  mort.  As  for  Heures  d'H'wer,  by  Mme. 
Bournat-Provins  and  her  Livre  pour  Toi,  prose  poems  dedicated  to 
Sylvius  “in  memory  of  our  hours  of  bliss,”  in  which  feminine  love  sings 
the  praises  of  the  masculine  body,  it  does  not  take  a  Maurras  to  recog¬ 
nize  in  theim  above  all  the  manifestation  of  a  rich  temperament,  and 
her  Poemes  troubles  are,  on  the  whole,  fairly  clear. 

They  recall,  at  times,  though  in  a  simplified  form,  the  romanticism 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  217 

of  Renee  Vivien.  The  latter  delighted  in  an  atmosphere  of  exoticism 
and  magic : 

Mon  cceur  est  las  enfin  des  mauvais  amours, 

Des  songes  de  mes  nuits  et  des  maux  de  mes  jours. 

Mon  cceur  est  vieux  autant  qu’un  tres  ancien  grimoire 
Et,  desesperement,  j’appelle  VHeure  Noire. 

In  this  Baudelairian  palace,  Renee  Vivien  is  at  ease.  As  soon 
as  she  ventures  without,  all  inspiration  deserts  her. 

“I  talk  bizarre  as  others  talk  French.”  When  she  lent  these  words 
to  Mme.  Delarue-Mardrus,  Maurras  stressed  the  technical  weaknesses 
which  obscure  her  sincerest  inspiration.  This  uncertainty  in  the  ex¬ 
pression  mars  a  little  the  pictures  of  her  beloved  Normandy.  It  also 
slackens  the  eloquent  movements  of  La  Figure  de  Prone.  Lucie 
Delarue-Mardrus  is  more  successful  in  the  fine  verse  than  in  the  com¬ 
plete  stanza : 

Tout  le  Printemps  tiendra  dans  une  violette  .  .  . 

Ah!  je  ne  guerirai  jamais  de  mon  pays!  .  .  . 

In  addition  to  love  of  nature,  she  has  celebrated  human  love,  sometimes 
in  intimate  poems,  sometimes  in  romantic  amplifications  like  Chant  de 
la  Passion;  and  occasionally,  apropos  of  a  fleeting  sensation,  she 
has,  speaking  complacently  of  herself,  associated  humanity  with  her 
re very : 

Le  beau  temps  delicat  chauffe  ma  gorge  nue 
Oil  repose  ma  voix,  douce  comme  un  pigeon. 

Je  sens  avec  mon  cceur,  au  fond  de  I’etendue, 

Le  pauvre  cceur  humain  clmfuer  comme  un  bourgeon. 

Mme.  de  Noailles  has  been  nicknamed  the  “Garden  Muse”  and  com¬ 
pared  to  Francis  Jammes.  She  has  spoken  many  times  of  her  love  of 
nature  and,  in  Le  Cceur  innombr able ,  she  did  not  fear  to  invite  ridicule 
by  identifying  herself  with  natural  things : 

Et  ce  sera  tres  bon  et  tres  juste  de  croire 
Que  mes  yeux  ondoypnts  sont  a  ce  lin  pareils, 

Et  que  mon  cceur,  ardent  et  lourd,  est  cette  poire 
Qui  murit  doucement  sa  pelure  au  soleil  .  .  . 

but  before  this  magnificent  declaration  in  L’Ombre  des  Jours: 

Nature  au  cceur  profond  sur  qui  les  cieux  reposent, 

Nul  n’aura  comme  moi  si  chaudement  aime 


218  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

La  lumiere  des  jours  et  la  douceur  des  choses, 

L’eau  luisante  et  la  terre  ou  la  vie  a  germe  .  .  . 

who  would  dream  of  smiling? 

All  Anna  de  Noailles’  poetry  is  a  music  of  wide  intervals.  It  would 
be  as  useless  to  deplore  the  absence  in  it  of  average  qualities  she  has 
never  sought  as  it  would  be  easy  to  find  in  her  work  influences,  from 
Villon  to  the  Symbolists.  These  two  lines : 

Le  soir  tombait,  un  soir  si  penchant  et  si  triste  .  .  . 
L’harmonieuse  paix  des  germinations  .  .  . 

prove  she  has  forgotten  neither  her  Verlaine  nor  her  Hugo.  To  speak 
of  her  romanticism  is  useful  only  if  the  word  is  meant  to  define,  not  to 
censure,  the  eloquence  of  the  prayer  facing  the  sun: 

Et  pourtant,  je  le  sens,  vive  et  lasse  de  pleurs, 

J’ai  vecu  si  profonde  et  si  haute  en  douleurs, 

J’ai,  dans  les  soirs  pensifs,  sous  les  blanches  etoiles, 

Des  bords  de  mon  esprit  ecarte  tant  de  voiles, 

J’ai  fait  de  mes  deux  bras,  dans  I’aube  et  dans  le  soir, 

Des  gestes  d’un  si  vif  et  si  doux  desespoir, 

Que  dans  I’ether  divin  ou  monte  toute  image 
Mes  desirs  se  feront  un  eternel  passage  .  .  . 

(. Les  Eblouissements.j 

Shall  we  discuss  this  attitude  of  a  priestess  of  Life  when  it  gives  us  such 
flights  of  sincere  ardour? 

Her  novels  testify  to  the  omnipotence  of  sensation.  She  asserts 
it  in  La  Nouvelle  Esperance:  “Sabine  pictured  pleasure  and  death  in 
an  acute  and  simple  fashion,  by  her  taste  for  warmth  and  by  her  fear 
of  shivering  .  .  .  There  is  no  future,  there  is  only  the  present,  always 
the  present  .  .  .  There  is  but  one  pleasure,  that  which  hurts  .  .  . 
Heroism  is  the  sharpest  sensuality  .  .  .  ”  Le  Visage  emerveille  accen¬ 
tuates  this  artless  anarchy:  “Conscience  is  a  sadness  experienced 
after  something  which  one  has  just  done  and  which  one  would  do 
again.”  She  lives  spontaneously  in  the  voluptuous  and  poetic  pagan¬ 
ism  evoked  by  La  Domination:  “All  poets — and,  my  dear  Pan,  there 
are  many  poets — await  you  in  the  gardens.  Do  not  believe  them  when 
they  think  themselves  mystics  and  converted  to  Judaism.  If  they  say 
their  soul  thirsts  for  mystery,  it  is  because  they  seek  you  and  have  not 
found  you.”  The  heart,  as  well  as  reasoning,  can  lead  to  the  convic¬ 
tion  of  the  universal  flux:  “He  well  knew  that  Venice  lies,  that  every¬ 
thing  lies,  that  there  is  no  happiness,  merely  a  swift  flight  of  time  and 
of  memories  -tfhich  fade.”  At  times  she  hopes  in  love,  but  at  bottom 
she  is  not  ignorant  that 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  219 

L’ Amour  n’est  ni  joyeux  ni  tendre 

and  will  never  completely  satisfy  her  eternal  awaiting.  “The  contour 
of  women’s  souls  is  like  their  look,  completely  girt  around  with  languor 
and  desire.” 

Since  nothing  on  earth  seemed  to  her  to  equal  in  reality  the  flame 
of  this  desire,  Mme.  Noailles  has  at  least  been  ambitious  to  stamp  an 
unforgettable  image  of  it  upon  the  living  and  upon  those  yet  to  come. 
She  has  boldly  raised  the  cry  of  sensuality  even  in  those  chimerical 
regions  where  no  precision  breaks  it  and  where  it  is  repeated  by  ample 
echoes.  Let  us  not  separate  what  she  has  so  passionately  joined  to¬ 
gether  and  let  us  grant  L’hnage  thd  glory  of  being,  not  only  a  very  fine 
poem,  but  at  the  same  time  the  victory  won  over  perfidious  time  by  “a 
small  and  clear”  woman  who  charges  the  dying  faun  with  her  most 
precious  message  to  the  “pensive  dead”  ; 

Tu  leur  diras  que  je  m’endors, 

Mes  bras  nus  plies  sous  ma  tete, 

Que  ma  chair  est  comme  de  Vor 
Autour  des  veines  violettes  .  .  . 

Et  dis-leur  que  dans  les  soirs  lourds, 

Couchee  au  bord  frais  des  fontaines, 

J’eus  le  desir  de  leurs  amours 
Et  j’ai  presse  leurs  ombres  vaines 

(Le  Cceur  innombrable.j 

For  some  time  it  was  the  fashion  among  the  neo-classics  to  quote 
these  two  lines  by  Gerard  d’Houville : 

Le  rameur  qui  m’a  pris  Vobole  du  passage 
Et  qui  jamais  ne  parle  aux  ombres  qu’il  conduit, 

in  order  to  praise  this  poetess  who  did  not  regard  free  verse  with  the 
same  favour  as  her  husband,  Henri  de  Regnier,  and  whose  most  supple 
stanza  kept  a  classic  mien.  However  the  construction  of  a  poem  such 
as  Consolation  or  the  beginning  of  L’Offrande  funeraire  seems  to  reveal 
a  cultural  kinship  between  the  two  arts.  This  comparison  defines  the 
originality  of  Gerard  d’Houville,  made  up  of  feminine  shadings  like 
the  delicate  notations  of  Le  temps  d’ aimer  or  these  impressions  of  na¬ 
ture  less  haughtily  composed  than  dreamily  told  over  by  memory: 

Le  gout  et  la  saveur  succulente  d’un  fruit, 

Le  rayon  de  soleil  qui  me  dore  la  joue, 

Et  Vheure  pares seuse  oil  le  reve  se  joue, 

Et  le  petit  croissant  de  lune  dans  la  nuit 


(Le  Regret.j 


220  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

This  charm  reappears  in  On  ne  saurait  penser  a  tout,  a  comedy- 
proverb  a  la  Musset  in  a  Regnier-like  Italy,  where  this  feminine  grace 
and  faith  in  the  power  of  love  renew  the  canvas  of  pure  artistic  fancy. 
She,  too,  has  kept  in  her  work  a  charm  of  confidence.  It  is  piquant,  in 
Tant  pis  pour  toi,  to  hear  Heredia’s  daughter  assert  that  “when,  here 
and  there,  a  man  has  genius — genius,  that  other  form  of  love — well! 
this  genius  comes  to  him  from  his  mother.”  It  is  touching  that  her 
“multiple  regret”  should  mingle  the  vision  of  a  precise  being  with 
landscape  of  a  burning  climate: 

Et  vous,  naif  orgueil  de  mon  jeune  visage, 

Et  vous,  souple  fraicheur  de  mes  bras  ronds  et  nus, 

Et  vous,  lontain  pays,  charmes  ressouvenus 
Du  depart,  du  retour  et  du  changeant  voyage! 

(Le  Regret .) 

4.  THE  INT1MISTS 

Anyone  who  wanted,  before  knowing  the  new  theories  of  our  epoch, 
to  taste  its  complex  sensibility,  would  find  it  indispensable  to  collect, 
on  one  of  his  bookshelves,  a  few  poets  who  are  in  other  respects  very 
different  but  who,  arbitrarily  brought  together,  would  form  an  excel¬ 
lent  preparation  for  the  study  of  the  works  which  have  pretended  to 
renew  this  sensibility.  One  of  the  merits  of  the  Intimists  is,  indeed, 
to  inform  us  as  to  the  ambient  influences  which  they  reflect  and 
diversify. 

Rene  Salome’s  camaieu  poems  bear  witness  to  the  survival  of  Symbol¬ 
ism  as  Jammes  and  Samain  understand  it.  The  eloquent  fascination  of 
Romanticism  has  touched  Leo  Larguier,  inspiring  him,  in  addition  to 
an  ambitious  Jacques  in  the  tradition  of  Jocelyn,  with  some  delicate 
invocations  such  as  the  eighteenth-century  Reverie  justly  dedicated 
to  Mme.  de  Noailles. 

It  was  also  to  Mme.  de  Noailles  that  Emile  Despax  dedicated  one  of 
the  most  beautiful  pieces  in  La  Maison  des  Glycines ;  but  the  romanti¬ 
cism  of  this  invocation  is  not  his  habitual  tone.  He  has  paid  noble 
homage  to  Jammes.  Memories  of  Samain  and  of  Rodenbach  might  be 
noted  in  his  work.  He  possessed  the  foremost  quality  of  the  Intimist 
poet,  passivity: 

Comme  un  etang,  comme  un  miroir,  mon  dme  est  lisse. 

Le  grand  jour  ruy  vit  pas,  n!y  meurt  pas;  il  y  glisse. 

Comme  un  etang,  comme  un  miroir  qui  se  complait 
A  ne^jouer  que  de  reflets.  Et  ces  reflets 
En  sont  la  caressante  et  paresseuse  vie  .  .  . 


(Le  Reve.') 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  221 

Fran9ois-Paul  Alibert’s  poetry  testifies  to  a  great  mastery  of  various 
techniques.  Heir  of  Symbolism,  he  can  handle  free  verse  and,  in 
hours  of  happiness,  recaptures  something  of  Mallarme’s  luminous  den¬ 
sity ;  but,  beyond  L’Apres-midi  d’un  Faune,  Alibert  wishes  to  join  Vir¬ 
gil  and  has  indicated  his  device : 

J’aime  ce  dur  laurier  qui  pousse  vers  la  gloire 
Herisse  de  sa  feuille  etincelante  et  noire 
Une  tete  hautaine  et  Vorgueil  d’etre  seul. 

( Le  Buisson  ardent .) 

This  classicism  where  there  remain  traces  of  Vigny  and  Leconte  de 
Lisle  seems  at  moments  a  trifle  artificially  emotional.  For  this  reason 
preference  will  be  given  to  the  passages  where  the  poet  unbends  a  little, 
the  ardent  Ode  erotique  which  goes  far  beyond  the  fashionable  “Chenier- 
isme the  delicate  impressionistic  touches  of  L’Hotesse  inconnue: 

Sous  les  branches  on  perce  une  hwmide  sueur, 

Des  pruniers  aux  fruits  bleus  vernisses  de  fraicheur  .  .  . 

and  the  reveries  of  the  Elegies  romaines  in  which  the  verse,  fluid  and 
full,  bears  easily  the  wealth  of  a  double  tradition: 

Car  V amour  le  meilleur  est  cet  amour  furtif 
Qui  ne  traine  apres  lui  qu’une  image  effacee, 

Et  de  qui  I’apparence  entre  nos  doigts  pressee 
Ne  laisse  pour  seul  charme  et  pour  tout  souvenir 
Que  les  traits  renaissants  d’un  immortel  desir, 

Et  sa  jeune  chaleur  a  nos  levres  brulante. 

By  verses  of  such  a  quality  Alibert  marks  a  progress  in  the  classical 
renaissance  from  Moreas  to  Valery. 

Tristan  Klingsor  has  by  no  means  rejected  Symbolism  and,  with  a 
more  refined  art,  continues  the  tradition  of  Laforgue;  but  here  there 
is  no  stammering.  This  fancy  is  sure  of  itself.  It  knows  its  limits. 
It  delights  in  the  exotic  and  leads  us  to  Bohemia : 

Les  Bohemiens  qui  ont  des  fleurs  de  neige 
Dans  leur  barbe  noire,  ce  soir,  sont  passes  .  .  . 

( P'oemes  de  Boheme ;) 

or  else  to  China : 

Contempler  a  loisir  des  passages  peints 
Sur  des  etaffes  en  des  cadres  de  sapin 
Avec  un  personnage  au  milieu  d’un  verger. 

(Sheherazade,  Asie.) 


222  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

A  purely  literary  exoticism,  moreover.  Gluck’s  music,  a  recollection  of 
Jammes,  reading  Ronsard  serve  quite  as  well  to  start  this  subtle, 
mandarin-like  imagination. 

“Then,  when  this  quality  of  gentleness  had  insinuated  itself,  little  by 
little,  as  a  woman  suggests  a  specious  excuse,  the  Silurian  seas  ceased 
to  waltz,  spread  out,  and  began  their  sombre  gestation.”  In  this  sen¬ 
tence  from  Vieux  Monde  a  practised  ear  will  recognize,  between  the 
memories  of  Rimbaud  and  Laforgue,  the  personal  note  of  Leon-Paul 
Fargue.  It  was  already  discernible  in  Tancrede,  a  veiled  confession 
completely  impregnated  with  Symbolism  and  Impressionism  in  in¬ 
cisive  traits  which  recall  La  Bruyere  and  are  akin  to  certain  phrases 
of  Paludes.  Analysis  and  fancy  are  not  at  variance  in  Fargue.  “His 
passivity  is  evident,”  remarks  Duhamel  who  quotes  this  fragment  from 
Poemes:  “One  evening,  I  had  found- — it  seems  to  me  I  had  found — a 
thing  to  make  me  happy.  I  thought  of  it  in  a  dark,  greasy  street,  with 
its  infinite  flight  of  lamp-posts,  and  like  a  great  burst  of  silent,  sombre 
laughter.”  Trancrede  must  inflict  some  childish  jokes  upon  us  before 
revealing  his  emotion: 

Comme  la  vie  fait  souffrir. 

Sans  reproche,  sans  mot  dire, 

Pour  un  rien,  pour  le  plaisir. 

Again  he  will  have  to  brand  the  confidences  of  Tremblantes  with  this 
ironical  subtitle :  “Seven  variants  made  for  marking  time  or  calming 
the  nerves.” 

His  emotion,  ever  ready  to  break  through,  distinguishes  him  from 
his.  friends,  the  Fantasists,  whom  he  has  evoked  in  the  Conversation 
with  Valery  Larbaud.  He  has  let  his  grief  speak  fully,  without 
constraint,  in  /Eternae  Memories  Patris;  but  his  personal  domain 
is  the  visionary  penumbra  in  which  he  enjoys  life  better  than  in 
the  hard  reality:  “The  Heroes  have  only  their  dull  joys  of  battle 
and  of  the  theatre  .  .  .  But  we !  So  many  landscapes  swelling  with 
music  exchange  it  with  that  thought  by  our  soul.”  There  he  can  hope 
to  retire  “with  a  friend  who  knows  everything  about  me,  who  reproaches 
me  with  everything — and  who  forgives  me.”  Through  his  musical 
half-dream  pass  memories  of  towns  and  of  loves,  joys  of  which  his 
nostalgia  exasperates  the  fragility,  clear  little  pictures  imbued  with 
melancholy :  “And  I  think  of  someone  whom  I  love  and  who  is  so  little 
to  be  so  far,  perhaps,  beyond  dark  countries,  beyond  deep  waters. 
And  his  look  is  invisible  to  me.”  He  lives  there  eternally  awaiting  “the 
idyll,”  but  without  illusion:  “What  then  is  all  our  tenderness? 
Nothing  but  a  little  wave  which  nibbles  at  the  shore  and  then  returns 


s 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  223 

to  the  open  sea.”  He  is  always  himself,  detached,  solitary:  “What 
you  are  about  to  love  escapes  immediately,  swiftly,  towards  the 
shadows  .  .  .  but  what  you  do  love  ends  invariably  by  deciding  to 
leave  you  .  .  .  One  is  alone  .  .  .  One  is  always  alone  .  .  .  The  aim 
of  everything  is  solitude.” 

In  this  musical  solitude  which  is  not  without  charm,  Fargue  writes 
his  poems  which  are  Etudes  a  la  Chopin,  studies  in  rhythms  and  in 
sensibility ;  and  it  is  the  privilege  of  this  nervous  sensibility,  so  curious 
concerning  every  poetic  shading,  to  give  these  rhythms,  now  a  firmness 
which  presages  Romains,  now  the  nonchalance  of  a  melancholy,  smiling 
lied: 


Mon  cceur  frappe  a  la  porte 
Dans  Vombre  .  .  . 

J’aime  trop  pour  le  dire  .  .  . 

II  passe  dans  mon  verre, 

Comme  des  ailes  claires, 

Ses  gestes,  son  sourire  .  .  . 

(Pour  la  Musique .) 


5.  THE  FANTASISTS 

The  invasion  of  poetry  by  fantasy  is  one  of  the  characteristic  traits 
of  our  time.  Not  that  other  epochs  have  lacked  it;  but,  even  allowing 
for  the  exaggeration  required  by  timeliness,  none  seems  to  have  de¬ 
manded  so  urgently  to  be  diverted,  to  have  aroused  so  many  inde¬ 
dependent  fantasists,  and  paradoxically  grouped  the  fantasists  in 
schools. 

Here  again  we  shall  find  traditionalists.  Henry  Spiess’  humour  in 
Rimes  d’ Audience  has  the  wisdom  which  characterizes  his  lyricism  in 
Le  Silence  des  heures.  Franc  Nohain’s  drolleries  bring  journalism 
to  a  kind  of  poetry.  Vincent  Muselli  does  not  repudiate  his  ances¬ 
tors,  the  libertine  poets.  Raoul  Ponchon  has  a  whole  line  of  predeces¬ 
sors  and  his  Muse  au  cabaret  cultivates  his  chosen  domain  with  a  ro¬ 
bust  spirit  and  a  pleasant  monotony : 

Que  si  j’ose  elever  la  voix 
Dans  le  tumulte  de  la  Vie 
Ce  n’est  que  pour 
Celebrer  le  Vin  et  VAmour 
Et  V amour  de  ma  mie 
O  gue! 

Encore  suis-je  bien  fatigue 

( Chanson  d’Automne .) 


224  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Tristan  Dereme  would  not  forgive  us  for  ranking  him  among  the 
elegiac  poets.  He  has  sung  Montmartre  and  Bohemia,  multiplying  the 
Banvillian  capers : 

Tes  bras  ont  une  courbe  adorable  et  malgre  que 

Ton  cceur  n’ait  que  dedain  pour  la  grammaire  grecque.  .  .  . 

However  the  theme  of  Poeme  de  la  pipe  et  de  Vescargot  is  the  sad  lot  of 
the  poet  in  contemporary  life.  Its  apparent  prosiness  is  justified 
because 


L’ombre  emouvante  est  dans  les  choses  minuscules, 

and  the  Poeme  des  Chimeres  etranglees  (eloquent  title!)  confesses  a  dis¬ 
contentment  which  might  renew  this  trifling: 

Un  beau  regard,  s’il  te  sourit, 

Tule  rallies,  mats  tu  regrettes 

Ces  printemps  morts  ou  ton  esprit 

Etait  plein  d’etoiles  secretes. 

Parodists  have  multiplied,  but  their  charm  is  temporal.  Re¬ 
reading  La  Negresse  blonde,  by  Georges  Fourest,  one  is  struck  most 
of  all  by  the  coarseness  of  the  devices  employed.  Does  a  similar  de- 
creptitude  threaten  the  A  la  maniere  de  ...  by  Paul  Reboux  and 
Charles  Muller?  It  would  seem  as  if  the  fine  literary  criticism  con¬ 
cealed  in  these  pastiches  should  preserve  them  from  it.  Jean  Pellerin 
had  also,  published  a  collection  of  pastiches,  Le  Copiste  indiscret,  which 
testifies  to  the  flexibility  of  his  fancy.  The  lively  ten-line  stanzas  of 
La  Romance  du  Retour  poked  agreeable  fun  at  the  bric-a-brac  which 
was  the  rage.  Pellerin  ingeniously  described  the  modern  setting, 
the  motors,  the  bars,  cudgelling  bourgeois  and  snobs,  sketching  pretty 
pictures  in  passing: 

Mais  Peter,  marchand  de  son  ombre, 

N’ose  offrir  le  cheque  maudit 
Ou  le  diable  a  mis  son  paraphe. 

Cependant,  la  dactylographe 
L’ agrafe  d’un  ceil  enhardi  .  .  . 

Death  took  Jean  Pellerin  from  us  prematurely ;  but  literary  history 
will  remember  a  beginner’s  work  sure  to  create  imitators. 

It  would  be  still  more  unjust  if  a  host  of  counterfeiters  caused  the 
originality  of  Henry  Levet,  who  died  at  thirty-two,  to  be  forgotten. 
For,  in  the  thin  volume  the  publication  of  which  was  due  to  the  piety  of 
faithful  friends,  if  Le  Drame  de  V Allee  and  Le  Pavilion  are  merely  the 
essays  of  a  young  man  seeking  his  way  between  imitation  and  parody- 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  225 

ing  of  the  Symbolist  masters,  the  ten  Cartes  postales  are  the  work 
of  a  precursor. 

Novel-readers  who  know  nothing  of  Francis  Carco  but  Jesus  la 
Caille,  the  scenes  of  Montmartre  and  of  Belleville,  the  conversations  in 
savoury  slang,  the  picturesque,  solidly  constructed  play  L’Equipe,  will 
be  somewhat  surprised,  on  opening  his  Petits  Airs,  to  happen  upon  this 
Madrigal: 

Vous  n’aimez  pas  qui  vous  aime 
Ni  qui  vous  saurait  aimer 
Et  ne  donnez  de  vous-meme 
Que  ce  que  vous  voulez  donner. 

Soon,  however,  they  will  recognize,  in  a  setting  heightened  by  memories 
of  Degas  and  Toulouse-Lautrec,  their  familiar  heroes : 

La  musique  des  tziganes 
Fait  rever  d’amour, 

Mais  Julot,  dit  Sarbacane, 

Arrive  a  son  tour  .  .  . 

Carco  was  in  fact  one  of  the  Fantasists  who  rose  up  against  “the 
disorder  of  the  pseudo-Romantics  and  the  rubbish  of  Symbolism,”  as 
he  says  in  his  preface  to  Jean  Pellerin’s  Le  Bouquet  inutile.  He 
should  then  have  inscribed  himself  among  the  subjective  writers.  The 
amiable  confidences  of  Maman  Petitdoigt,  in  which  childhood  memories 
and  evocations  of  tendres  canailles  mingle,  have  a  more  engaging  ease 
than  the  violence  of  Les  Innocents;  but  the  same  milieus  where  Salmon 
seeks  to  confront  his  doubt  with  their  certitudes  Carco  has  traversed 
as  an  observer  disinterested  enough  to  become  again  at  once  an  ob¬ 
jective  story-teller.  The  brief  tales  in  Au  Coin  des  rues  are  so  many 
proofs  of  this.  The  tense  sobriety  of  L’Homme  traque  soon  brought 
an  interesting  evidence  of  it.  Apart  from  a  useless  evocation  of  the 
idea  of  “redemption,”  Carco  here  maintained  from  one  end  to  the 
other  his  purpose,  which  was  to  adopt  none,  to  paint  with  a  fine  ar¬ 
tistic  neutrality  the  unfolding  of  the  inner  drama  arising  from  a  crim¬ 
inal  act,  without  permitting  anything  to  warp  this  rigorous  analysis. 

After  the  success  of  L’Homme  traque,  Carco  had  the  courage  to 
turn  to  another  subject  entirely  different.  Rien  qu’une  femme  is  the 
confession  of  a  love  first  happy,  then  crossed,  renewed  again,  finally 
broken,  the  narrative  of  a  double  downfall,  carnal  and  spiritual. 
Carco  has  not  idealized  his  heroes  (a  hotel  maid  who  debauches  the  son 
of  her  mistress),  but  he  effaces  himself  entirely  behind  the  narrator. 
The  unity  of  expression  equals  the  unity  of  atmosphere.  This  is  as 


226  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

simple  as  Adolphe.  The  author  has  also  revived  the  long  flexible 
sentence  of  the  master  psychologists :  “It  was  these  relics  which  still 
linked  us  to  each  other,  and  they  had  charms  so  powerful  that  they 
deceived  me  as  to  the  strength  lent  them  and,  above  all,  as  to  their  sort 
of  abject  and  tormented  grandeur.”  Much  should  be  expected  of  the 
young  novelist  capable,  without  falling  into  academicism,  of  so  happy 
a  renewal. 

Since  Paul-Jean  Toulet’s  death,  in  September  1920,  his  reputation 
has  not  ceased  growing.  Until  then  it  had  remained  restricted  to 
literary  circles  where  it  provoked  imitations,  including  Jean  Pellerin’s 
La  Jeune  Fille  aux  pinceaux.  For  the  public  Toulet  remained  the 
chronicler  of  La  Vie  parisienne.  Certain  of  his  books  maintained  this 
misunderstanding.  In  spite  of  some  exquisite  mots,  such  as  this  post¬ 
script  :  “Do  not  look  for  any  obscenities  in  my  letter :  there  are  some,” 
Les  Tendres  Menages  has  much  aged.  One  must  make  haste  to  read 
Behanzigue  and  relish  the  whipped  cream  of  Mon  amie  Nane  before 
their  slang  is  out  of  date.  This  will  lead  moreover  to  the  discovery  of 
another  Toulet,  a  poet  beneath  the  fantasist,  the  author  of  L’Etrange 
Royaume  who,  in  Behanzique,  scans  two  lines  of  prose  in  three  alex- 
andrins.  (“ Soit  dit  sans  offenser  a  M.  Debussy,  qui  sut  tirer  du  F aune 
une  chanson  divine,  et  de  sa  vaine  grappe,  un  prestige  precis ”)  ;  who, 
in  La  Prince sse  de  Colchide,  continues  Les  Moralites  legendaires  with 
less  philosophic  verbiage  and  more  drollery,  strewing  the  story  of 
Jason  and  Medea  with  counter-rhymes,  reproducing  the  dapper  tone 
of  Baudelaire  the  dandy  of  the  Causeries. 

If  Toulet  had  been  merely  a  prose-writer,  he  would  count  admirers 
to  consider  him  a  kind  of  Henri  Beyle  who  had  never  quite  become 
Stendhal.  Stories  would  be  told  about  his  noctambulism.  Echoes 
of  “his  speech,  alternately  incisive  and  obscure,”  would  be  sought  in 
his  heroes,  Behanzigu  and  du  Paur,”  full  at  once  of  irritability,  of 
nonchalance  and  of  easy  grace.”  The  mots  he  lent  them  would  be 
restored  to  him:  “Wise  men  cast  their  life  into  pleasure  as  Tiepolo 
his  silver  into  the  Adriatic:  after  having  spread  nets  beneath  the 
windows.”  In  his  first  novel,  M.  du  Paur,  homme  public,  La  Roche¬ 
foucauld’s  influence  mingles  with  that  of  Stendhal  from  whom  he  has 
combined  amusing  epistolary  centos.  Toulet  shares  Stendhal’s  con¬ 
tempt  for  masculine  heaviness.  He  has  the  proper  warm  admiration 
for  feminine  beauty.  On  this  point  the  disciple’s  conviction  yields  in 
no  respect  to  his  master’s ;  but  he  has  profited  by  Beyle’s  experiments. 
He  presents  Nane  and  Lsetitia  in  an  atmosphere  of  irony  and  of 
sensuality  which  gives  Ombres  chinoises  its  bittersweet  charm. 

Exoticism  holds  an  important  place  in  his  work.  His  parents  had 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  227 

left  the  island  of  Mauritius  for  him  to  be  born  in  France,  but  his  youth 
was  passed  on  “the  flowery  savannah”: 


Douce  aux  ramiers,  douce  aux  amants, 

Toi  de  qui  la  ramure 
Nous  charmait  d’ombre  et  de  murmures, 

Et  de  roucoulements 

{Contrerimes.) 


He  never  forgot  “the  light  shade  of  the  filaos.”  The  Spain  of  Le 
Mariage  de  Don  Quichotte,  London,  Algiers,  the  Far  East,  which  he 
visited,  were  sources  of  inspiration  for  him.  At  the  same  time  the 
Bearnais  of  La  Jeune  Fille  verte  was  passionately  French.  Patriotism 
entered  into  his  pride  as  a  “grammarian.”  The  preface  to  M.  du 
Paur,  a  certain  letter  from  Sylvere  to  the  Guardian  Angel  or  Mme. 
des  Cypres’  diary  bear  witness  to  this  refined  stylist’s  virtuosit}\ 

All  these  qualities  are  united  in  the  Contrerimes.  This  volume  owes 
its  title  to  the  stanza  employed  by  Toulet  in  the  majority  of  his  pieces 
(type  8a  6b  8b  6a).  Without  denying  the  charm  of  the  ten-line 
stanzas  and  of  the  couplets  he  adds  to  them,  one  will  recognize  in 
these  epigrams  the  most  ephemeral  part  of  the  collection;  but  in  the 
contrerimes  properly  speaking  not  a  fault  will  be  found.  Toulet 
polished  them  amorously.  They  show  a  perfect  craftsmanship.  His 
whole  existence  lives  in  them  again.1 


6.  FROM  THE  CUBISTS  TO  THE  DADAISTS 

The  tardy  fame  of  a  Toulet  is  explained  in  part  by  the  habit  taken 
by  the  “Independents”  of  uniting  in  schools  and  under  banners  cover¬ 
ing  painters  and  musicians  as  well  as  writers.  It  would  be  easy  to 
demonstrate  that  the  epithet  “Cubist”  is  very  inadequate  for  the  art  of 
Picasso.  All  the  more  then  is  it  entirely  insufficient  to  characterize 
the  group  of  the  Rue  Ravignan — Max  Jacob,  Apollinaire  and  Salmon ; 
but  an  impropriety  more  or  less  not  making  much  difference  in  critical 
language,  it  is  infinitely  probable  that  the  poet-designer  and  the  two 
poet-critics  of  Les  Peintres  cubistes  and  L’Art  vivant  will  remain  “the 
Cubists”  in  literary  history. 

“Before  us,”  Jean  Metzinger  has  written,  “no  painter  had  taken 
the  trouble  to  handle  the  objects  he  painted.”  Applied  to  literature, 
this  Cubist  principle  will  explain  such  a  passage  from  Guillaume 
Apollinaire : 

i  For  the  complete  study  which  Toulet  merits,  see  La i  Vie  de  P.-J.  Toulet,  by 
Henri  Martineau. 


228  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Une  famille  transporte  un  edredon  rouge  comme 
vous  transporter  votre  cceur 
Cet  edredon  et  nos  reves  sont  aussi  irreels 
Quelques-uns  de  ces  emigrants  restent  igi  et  se  logent 
Rue  des  Rosiers  ou  rue  des  Ecouffes  dans  des  bouges 
Je  les  ai  vus  souvent  le  soir  ils  prennent  V air  dans  la  rue 
Et  se  deplacent  rarement  comme  les  pieces  aux  echecs 

( Alcools .) 

And  it  would  be  unjust  to  deny  this  Cubism,  concerned  “with  render¬ 
ing  sensible  all  the  facets  of  an  object  at  the  same  time”  (Salmon)  the 
power  to  construct,  in  the  presence  of  a  poem  like : 

Au  tournant  d’une  rue  je  vis  des  matelots 
Qui  dansaient  le  cou  nu  au  son  d’un  accordeon 
J’ai  tout  donne  au  soleil 
Tout  sauf  mon  ombre 

Les  dragues,  les  ballots,  les  sirenes  mi-mortes 
A  Vhorizon  brumeux  s’enfongaient  les  trois-mats 
Les  vents  ont  expire  couronnes  d’ anemones 
0  Vierge  signe  pur  du  troisieme  mois 

(Alcools.) 

Apollinaire’s  Cubism  is  then  perfectly  intelligible.  A  comparison  be¬ 
tween  La  Nuit  rhenane  and  Les  Fiangailles  (dedicated  to  Picasso)  will 
show  by  what  logical  sequence  Apollinaire  passed  from  Impressionism 
to  Cubism.  Making  legitimate  allowance  for  the  humorist,  we  can  re¬ 
ject  from  this  evolution  the  legend  of  mystification  which  has  too  long 
surrounded  it. 

Thus  in  theory  there  is  nothing  against  a  renewal  of  French  poetry 
in  the  direction  indicated  by  Apollinaire,  that  is  to  say  by  transporting 
into  the  art  of  words  the  Cubist  preoccupation  which  Andre  Lhote 
sums  up  as  follows:  “To  animate  the  interior  of  plane  surfaces  filled 
with  local  tone  by  the  vibration  of  the  contour.”  The  aim  will  no 
longer  be  an  academic  copy  of  nature  but  a  deformation  of  reality  dis¬ 
associating  certain  of  its  elements  ordinarily  united  and  bringing  to¬ 
gether  others  habitually  separated  in  order  to  totalize  all  their 
values  in  a  single  image.  The  preface  to  Les  Mamelles  de  Tiresias 
proves  that  Apollinaire  distinguished  his  “super-realism”  from  “de¬ 
ception.”  “When  man  wanted  to  imitate  walking,  he  created  the 
wheel  which  does  not  resemble  a  leg.  He  thus  created  super- 
realistically,  without  knowing  it.”  Why  then  did  not  Apollinaire 
fulfil  his  vast, design  more  successfully?  Why  does  his  work  give  the 
impression  of  success  in  a  few  brief  poems  only? 

We  must  answer  frankly:  because  Apollinaire’s  virtuosity  is  per- 


N 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  229 

fectly  incapable  of  a  great  creative  effort.  As  soon  as  he  undertakes 
to  raise  the  tone  in  Vendemiaire  or  Le  Mariage  d’ Andre  Salmon,  he  re¬ 
veals  a  terrible  poverty  of  poetic  imagination.  Forced  to  fill  out  his 
poems,  he  has  recourse  to  a  motley  cosmopolitanism,  sometimes  funny 
(La  Synagogue) ,  usually  tiresome  and  reeking  of  the  “junk  shop” 
of  which  Duhamel  speaks  in  his  connection.  This  bric-a-brac  litters 
the  tales  in  L’Heresiarque  <§•  Cie  where  tales  of  Jewry  and  of  de¬ 
cadent  Catholicism  mingle  with  gruesomely  comic  inventions  which 
outdo  Poe  without  causing  him  to  be  forgotten.  He  has  been  re¬ 
proached  with  the  grossness  which  takes  from  Le  Poete  assassine  the 
little  interest  a  painfully  sustained  fantasy  might  leave  it  and 
which  spoils  even  the  pretty  Chanson  du  mal  aime.  The  most  serious 
defect  of  these  gauloiseries  is  that  they  are  not  at  all  Gallic,  but 
pedantically  borrowed. 

We  touch  here  the  essential  point,  the  reproach  which  Duhamel  has 
pitilessly  formulated:  “In  fact  he  writes  only  from  books.”  We 
have  spoken  of  his  poverty  and  how  badly  he  dissimulated  it  beneath 
bric-a-brac,  wilful  obscenity  and  art  students’  jokes,  the  “Soleil 
cou  coupe”  and  other  pretty  trifles.  It  remains  to  be  stressed  that 
all  this  is  purely  bookish  and  that  Apollinaire’s  Muse,  when  she  sets  out 
for  Montparnasse,  comes  from  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale.  Stripped 
of  his  prestige  as  a  chef  d’ecole,  he  offers  us  an  amiable  continuer  of 
the  poetes  badins: 

Je  souhaite  dans  ma  maison:  , 

Une  femme  ay  ant  sa  raison, 

Un  chat  passant  parmi  les  livres, 

Des  amis  en  toute  saison 

Sans  lesquels  je  ne  peux  pas  vivre 

(Le  Bestiaire.) 

and  an  alert  story-teller,  the  amusing  talker  who  smiles  in  the  multiple 
digressions  and  in  the  last  page  of  La  Femme  assise:  “Elvire  (she  will 
always  exist)  is,  to  a  high  degree,  what  all  women  are  who,  like  the 
Swiss  ecu,  are  false  and  do  not  pass  current.” 

Would  it  be  unjust  to  apply  this  phrase  to  his  Cubism?  If  he  did 
not  betray  Cubism,  he  has  at  least  given  a  rather  inexact  interpreta¬ 
tion  of  it.  One  would  seek  in  vain  to  distinguish  two  Apollinaires,  a 
pre-Cubist  and  a  Cubist.  His  work,  in  spite  of  the  changes  in  the 
methods,  possesses  a  unity  which  is  this  bookish  inspiration.  Apol¬ 
linaire  shed  his  blood  gloriously  for  France.  Perhaps  however  the 
language  of  his  adopted  country  remained  for  him  a  thing  too  acquired 
to  permit  him  to  advance  spontaneously  and  without  models.  The 


230  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

richness  of  his  erudition  hampered  him.  He  had  to  fall  back  upon  in¬ 
genious  details,  slip  the  charming  song  of  Orkenise  into  the  rubbish  of 
U Enchant eur  pourrissant,  interrupt  the  gossip  of  Couleur  du  Temps 
with  a  brief  lyrical  halt : 

0  fils  6  mon  fils  plus  blanc  qu’un  lys  .  .  . 

Deprived  of  their  typographic  artifice  the  Calligrammes  are  not  more 
original  than  what  we  have  quoted  from  Alcools.  One  will  discern  in 
them  too  the  inheritor  of  the  first  Symbolism  who,  in  Vitam  Impendere 
Amori,  remembered  Verlaine.  The  best  of  Apollinaire  is  in  these  mus¬ 
ical  poems,  literary  in  their  inspiration,  Le  Jet  d’eau  or  La  Chanson 
du  mal  aime.  Here,  through  the  rhythm  and  the  accent,  he  is  able  to 
evoke  the  immortal  presence  of  Francis  Villon,  adroitly  mingling  the 
charm  of  modern  fantasy  with  the  echoes  of  an  ancient  melancholy : 

V oie  lactee  6  sceur  lumineuse 
Des  blancs  ruisseaux  de  Chanaan 
Et  des  corps  blancs  des  amoureuses 
Nageurs  marts  suivrons-nous  d’ahan 
Ton  cours  vers  d’autres  nebuleuses. 

(Alcools.) 

To  measure  the  laboriousness  of  Apollinaire’s  wit,  it  is  enough  to 
open  a  book  by  Max  Jacob,  Cinematoma,  a  “collection  of  characters” 
in  the  form  of  lyrical  monologues,  or  that  Phanerogame,  “a  life  por¬ 
trait  of  dilettantism  during  the  epoch  1900—1905,”  with  its  variations 
on  the  twelve  types  of  adultery,  the  nonsense  of  the  “Chapter  on  the 
Clownish  Cat”  and  the  street-fair  drolleries:  “We  are  neither  what  we 
are  nor  what  we  are  not,  nor  what  we  should  like  to  be,  nor  what  we  be¬ 
lieve  ourselves  to  be,  nor  what  we  should  pass  for  were  we  not  what 
we  are.”  It  is  a  rich  flow.  About  figures  like  “Daniel,  uncloistered 
friar  and  beadle’s  clerk”  or  “the  gentleman  who  travelled  in  a  parlour- 
car  for  the  first  time,”  Max  Jacob  multiplies  the  memories  of  a  cruel 
observation  and  the  inventions  of  an  unbridled  fantasy. 

Few  books  produce  the  impression  of  concrete  richness  presented  by 
La  Defense  de  Tartufe,  “ecstasies,  remorse,  visions,  prayers,  poems 
and  meditations  of  a  converted  Jew.”  Triumph  of  the  macaronic 
poem.  All  the  celebrated  voices  of  literature  are  recalled  in  it :  ex¬ 
pressions  from  popular  novels,  bits  of  hymns,  janitors’  stories  traverse 
the  quibbles  of  a  dialectic  Jew.  Beneath  the  banter  of  L’Examen  sur 
la  Foi  is  concealed  a  fine  analysis.  Here  is  the  restrained  eloquence  of 
L’Examen  sur  la  Charite:  “I  say  I  do  not  believe  I  have  ever  known 
love,  because  my  divine  transports  have  too  closely  resembled  those  I 
had  for  my  friends :  much  familiarity,  many  exigencies  and  some  tears 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  231 

coming  at  the  right  moment  to  make  me  believe  in  a  devotion  and  to 
make  me  proud  of  it.”  Then  Max  Jacob  precipitates  us  into  the 
pot-pourri: 

II  y  en  a  un  qui  gueule  sur  la  crecelle. 

II  y  en  a  un  qui  degueule  dans  la  vaisselle. 

II  y  en  a  un  des  uns  qui  a  la  voix  sablee. 

Si  vous  croyez  que  je  ne  vois  pas  que  vous  vous 
moquez  de  moi,  les  enfants  de  choeur,  allez! 

Resurrexit  homini  Inominum  Palleas  nostrum. 

Et  dans  le  tableau  du  fond  il  y  a  de  sales  bonshommes. 

{La  Messe  du  Demoniaque .) 

Neither  these  buffooneries  nor  those  of  the  Laboratoire  central  should 
hide  the  fact  that  Max  Jacob  is  a  very  conscious  artist:  “The  prose 
poem,”  he  says  in  his  Art  poetique,  “such  as  I  have  conceived  it  in  Le 
Cornet  a  des  and  such  as  it  has  since  been  imitated,  differs  from  the 
fantasies  of  Aloysius  Bertrand  in  this  that  the  subject  is  of  no  impor¬ 
tance  in  it,  or  the  picturesque  either.  The  sole  preoccupation  is  with 
the  poem  itself,  that  is  to  say  with  the  harmony  of  the  words,  of  the 
images  and  of  their  mutual  and  constant  appeal.”  MM.  Tropgrand- 
glaieul,  Psittacus  and  Haineabord  are  lasting  puppets  and  all  the 
savoury  images  of  his  Brittany  will  remain;  but  will  not  posterity 
avenge  itself  by  taking  Max  Jacob  at  his  word,  by  leaving  concealed, 
beneath  the  clown’s  mask  too  obstinately  retained  in  the  laborious  and 
tiresome  Roi  de  Beotie,  the  real  face  of  the  poet  who  could  sometimes 
delicately  ally  irony  and  emotion? — 

J’ai  retrouve  Quimper  ou  sont  nes  mes  premiers  vingt  ans 
Et  je  n’ai  pas  retrouve  mes  larmes. 

Jadis  quand  j’approchais  les  pauvres  faubourgs  blancs 
Je  pleurais  jusqu’d  me  voiler  les  arbres  .  .  . 

(Mille  regrets .) 

The  first  contact  with  Andre  Salmon’s  abundant  work  may  veil  his 
originality  under  the  appearance  of  an  equal  facility  in  poetry,  the 
short-story  and  criticism.  Le  Calumet,  Le  Livre  et  la  Bouteille,  La 
Negresse  du  Sacre-Cceur  are  principally  valuable  as  evocations  of  pre¬ 
war  milieus  by  an  observer  skilled  in  utilizing  the  lessons  of  the  fan¬ 
tasists  and  of  the  painters.  The  verses  of  Le  Calumet  have  the  elegant 
cleverness  characterizing  the  prose  of  the  Manuscrit  trouve  dans  un 
chapeau:  “One  evening  I  insulted  my  best  friend  and,  in  that  hostile 
night,  picked  up  a  passing  woman.  I  keep  her.  She  is  sweet,  she  is 
wise,  she  knows  a  surprising  lot  of  idiotic  songs  and  is  good  at  making 
hash.  Let’s  toast  ourselves,  my  heart,  in  this  comfortable  common- 


232  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

place  sensuality,  between  my  hallucinated  shadow  and  this  child  who 

collects  post-cards.” 

Salmon,  however,  has  never  wished  to  resemble  “those  cowardly 
poets  who  fall  asleep  on  the  sill  of  the  vision  in  the  nonchalant  search 
for  a  cadence  worthy  of  it.”  The  amateur  of  choice  monsters  finds, 
as  soon  as  he  is  moved,  the  accents  of  a  rude  indignation: 

Le  recruteur  etait  un  traitre 
Car  on  fait  faire,  il  m’a  menti, 

Aux  grands  la  guerre  des  petits 

Pour  les  marchands  et  pour  leurs  pretres  .  .  . 

( Costal  VIndien.') 

Listen  to  the  narrator  of  Tendres  Canailles:  “The  intellectual  pro¬ 
letariat  is  infinitely  less  sympathetic  to  me  than  the  other.  I  should 
certainly  not  die  for  the  latter,  but  I  should,  many  times  over,  with  a 
blithe  heart,  have  aided  in  the  salutary  massacre  of  the  former.”  The 
supreme  attraction  of  this  book  in  which  the  Carrefour  de  Buci  and  its 
habitues,  “artists  without  art,”  are  painted  with  a  delicate  precision, 
is  invariably  the  drama  which  underlies  the  tale — the  drama  of  the 
difference  between  men.  The  story-teller,  M.  Tourneur,  Bebert,  Yer 
Rongeur,  Le  Bellevillois  and  the  Neapolitan  mark  the  route  which  leads 
from  extreme  civilization  to  barbarism.  To  spread  the  fan  shaded 
with  refinement  and  brutality  is  also  the  aim  in  L’ Entrepreneur  d’ll- 
luminations,  vast  fresco  of  a  social  life  in  which  the  hero  of  Tendres 
Canailles  receives  the  confidences  of  the  magistrates,  in  which  the  Zou¬ 
ave  of  Le  Calumet  who  fed  on  extracts  from  the  Code  militaire  turns 
into  a  renowned  satyr,  in  which  the  mystical  Marat  becomes  an  assassin 
because  he  “had  slept  with  the  Goddess  Reason.”/ Salmon  has  always 
loved  the  cruelty  of  revolutionary  images.  Did  he  not  write,  twelve 
years  earlier? — 

Et  ma  jeunesse  delicate 
Surgit,  cygne  au  col  de  carmin, 

Comme  un  belle  aristocrate, 

Portant  sa  tete  dans  ses  mains 

( Quatorze  Juillet .) 

Publishing  Prikaz  he  invited  us  to  see  in  it  “a  first  poetic  essay  sub¬ 
stituting  for  the  seasons  of  the  old  lyricism  the  unstable  climate  of  uni¬ 
versal  anxiety.”  What  the  disturbance  Tendres  Canailles  had  intro¬ 
duced  into  the  novel  by  renewing  the  attitude  of  the  novelist  Prikaz 
brings  into  the  epic,  by  methods  less  different  than  amplified.  The 
refusal  to  diScuss  the  value  of  the  Bolshevist  revolution,  “the  accept¬ 
ance  of  a  fact  on  the  plane  of  the  mavellous”  (which  recalls  the  refusal 


N 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  233 

to  discuss  the  metamorphosis  of  Bebert  into  Albert  Grivaud)  permits 
Salmon  the  tragic  evocation  of  Rasputin  as  well  as  the  mystical 
supplication : 

Seigneur  ayez  pitie 
Des  hommes  de  la  terre  russe! 

S’ils  ont  verse  le  sang,  ils  ont  banni  la  ruse. 

(Prileaz,  X.) 

“restoring  emotion  to  the  impersonal”  he  has  been  able  legitimately 
to  throw  upon  this  spectacle  of  unleashed  passions  and  ideas  wherein 
arise  the  phantoms  of  the  usurping  Czars  the  consolation  of  a  great 
human  pity. 

Futurism  has  appeared  rather  inexactly  as  an  intermediate  stage 
between  Cubism  and  Dadaism.  When,  in  1912,  Marinetti  formulated 
the  principle,  “to  abolish  in  literature  the  apparently  indissoluble  fu¬ 
sion  of  the  two  conceptions  of  Woman  and  Beauty,”  to  replace  it  by 
“the  idea  of  mechanical  beauty  ...  to  exalt  love  for  the  Machine,” 
he  did  little  more  than  codify  the  instinct  which  had  inspired  him,  as 
early  as  1904,  with  the  verses  of  Destruction: 

En  un  grand  jour  de  flux  et  de  reflux,  force  et  devaste 
les  grands  ports  d’ebene  tout  Strangles  de  roches, 
dont  le  goulet  souffle  une  rouge  haleine, 
sous  des  fumees  geantes  et  droites,  couronnees  d’astres, 
qui  les  pietinent  superbement  de  leurs  pas  de  fantomes, 

( A  la  Mer  vengeresse.) 

Had  the  Futurist  movement  succeeded,  it  would  perhaps  have  given 
us  a  new  form  of  poetry ;  but  it  preferred  to  divert  its  effort  to  the  in¬ 
vention  of  “noise-makers”  commensurate  with  its  dream. 

Aragon,  who  represents  politics  rather  than  mysticism  in  Dada,  has 
opposed  to  Rimbaud’s  phantom  his  Anicet,  brother  of  the  Laf- 
cadio  of  Les  Caves.  He  has  none  the  less  in  Liquidation,  published  by 
Litterature,  accorded  eighteen  out  of  twenty  to  the  precursor.  The 
best  motto  for  Dada  is  this  sentence  from  La  Saison  en  Enfer:  “I 
end  by  finding  the  disorder  of  my  mind  sacred,’  corrected  by  Valery  s 
affirmation :  “The  human  mind  seems  to  me  so  made  as  to  be  incapable 
of  incoherency  for  itself.”  Or  for  others,  adds  Andre  Breton,  who 
denies  that  Dada  is  a  pure  subjectivism  and  whose  Mont-de-Piete  ad¬ 
mits  in  Rieuse  or  La  Foret  Noire  the  influences  of  Rimbaud  and  Mal- 
larme  before  ending  in  the  Dadaism  of  Cle  de  Sol: 

On  pent  suivre  sur  le  rideau 
L’amour  s’ en  va 


234 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


Touj ours  est-il 
Un  piano  a  queue 
Tout  se  perd.  .  .  . 

Excellent  Dada  pastiches  would  be  obtained  by  eliminating  the 
oratorical  tone  from  the  last  chapter  of  L’Enchanteur  pourrissant  or 
by  suppressing  all  the  “likes”  in  certain  of  Giraudoux’s  pages.  Nu¬ 
merous  Salons  have  popularized  the  Dada  paintings.  We  borrow  from 
the  two  leaders  of  the  movement  two  examples  of  the  exasperated  Im¬ 
pressionism  which  has  up  to  the  present  characterized  their  pro¬ 
ductions  : 


Cinema  calendrier  du  cceur  abstrait. 

18 — Purgatoire  annonce  la  grande  saison 
Le  gendarme  amour  qui  pisse  si  vite 
Coq  et  glace  se  couchent  sous  I’ceil  galant 
Grande  lampe  digere  vierge  marie 
Rue  saint-jacques  s’ en  vont  les  petits  jolis 
Vers  les  timbres  de  Vaurore  blanche  aorte 
L’eau  du  diable  pleure  sur  ma  raison 

(Tristan  Tzara.) 

Bouches. 

Azur  ivoire  ton  corps. 

Amour  a  deux  mains 
Dors-tu 

Mon  amie  bien-aimee 
Chaque  soir  sur  la  poitrine 
Be  noire  amour. 

(Francis  Picabia.) 

Will  it  be  reserved  for  Jean  Cocteau,  after  all  these  scales  for 
the  young  poets’  fingers,  to  found  a  new  Impressionism?  His  work 
has  until  now  been  a  barometer,  sensitive  to  the  slightest  varia¬ 
tions  of  the  painters  and  musicians  of  the  advance-guard.  His  Cap  de 
Bonne-Esperance  was  disagreeably  Cubist  with  a  Mallarmean  typog- 
raphy;  but  his  Poesies  are  at  times  agreeably  Dadist  as  for  ex¬ 
ample  this  T romp e-V ceil: 

Montagues  au-dessous  du  niveau  de  la  mer 
un  cheval  mange  sur  le  toit 
Rente  raide  la  vache  a  I’aise 
comme  une  mouche 
caressons-la. 

tiens  elle  est  a  deux  kilometres. 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  235 

Derriere  le  sommet 
( la  terre  est  ronde ) 
elle  se  cache. 

Et  toi  si  loin 
tout  contre  moi. 

“The  great  literary  masterpiece  is  never  anything  but  a  dictionary 
in  disorder.”  Some  sallies  of  this  sort  render  bearable  the  reading  of 
Potomak  which  he  has  himself  judged  without  indulgence  in  the 
Prospectus  of  1916.  Potomak  was  dedicated  to  the  Stravinsky  of  the 
recent  Sacre  du  Prmtemps.  In  1917,  Cocteau  presented  a  ballet, 
Parade,  with  music  by  Eric  Satie  in  which  the  parody  of  Verism  was 
so  successful  as  to  distil  the  same  boredom  one  had  believed  reserved 
for  the  original.  His  Maries  de  la  Tour  Eiffel,  after  an  amusing  be¬ 
ginning,  lacks  comic  renewal.  Cocteau  is  much  more  at  his  ease  in 
the  pamphlet  Le  Coq  et  I’Arlequin  where  he  justifies  the  evolution 
which  has  led  him  from  Debussy  and  Stravinsky  to  the  group  of  the 
Six  and  to  the  author  of  the  very  beautiful  Socrate  who  has  become 
the  Cezanne  of  musical  Impressionism,  is  a  brilliant  piece  of  fireworks 
which  holds  out  hope  of  less  brief  festivals. 

Paul  Dermee’s  books  are  curious  documents  concerning  an  epoch 
when  “all  human  notions  tremble  like  a  mist  on  a  raft,”  as  he  says  in 
Films,  collections  of  “duodramas,  soliloquies  and  stories”  which  will 
surely  be  imitated  as  have  already  been  the  poems  of  S pirales  (1917) 
and  the  lyric  legend  entitled  Beaut  es  de  1918.  Since  then  Dermee 
has  not  felt  obliged  to  return  to  the  classic  tradition  like  the  Cocteau 
of  Plain-Chant.  He  aims  rather  at  keeping,  in  a  poetic  form  more 
sober  than  that  of  S pirates,  the  vertiginous  release  from  all  restraint 
which  made  the  charm  of  Films,  and  sometimes  succeeds  in  Volant 
d’Artimon: 

Tout  se  penetre:  les  arhres  sont  des  yeux, 

Les  amantes  des  couteaux  dont  le  regard  hrille, 

Les  maisons  des  violons  qui  chantent  comme  des  essieux 
Et  tes  chagrins  ne  sont  plus  qu’escarbilles. 

Finally,  “in  the  advance-guard,”  as  they  say,  let  us  note  the  essays 
of  the  group  which  has  as  its  organs  the  Gazette  des  Sept  Arts  and 
Vie  des  Lettres  et  des  Arts.  Nicolas  Beauduin’s  pretentious  babblings 
in  his  synoptic  poems  on  three  planes  are  the  parade  necessary  before 
every  new  side-show;  but  all  is  not  rubbish  in  the  Poe:me  du  Vardar  by 
Riciotto  Canudo  who  seeks 

Dans  de  vagues  senteurs  de  folie 
Le  sens  eperdu  de  toute  la  vie. 


236  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

His  effort  sometimes  rejoins  that  of  Marcello  Fabri,  author  of  a 
curious  “novel  of  modern  crowds,”  L’Inconnw  sur  les  Villes.  He 
participates  usefully  in  the  campaign  conducted  by  Marcel  L’Herbier 
and  Louis  Delluc  to  obtain  from  film  producers  that  their  trade  shall 
finally  become  an  art. 

7.  PHILOSOPHY  AND  SOCIAL  POETRY 

The  poetical  renewal  which  the  Fantasists  hope  to  find  in  an  artistic 
refinement,  other  poets  have  sought  in  social  inspiration.  The  con¬ 
trast  is  brutal  but  comforting  between  certain  abject  mandarinisms 
and  the  sharp  satires  of  Bruand  or  those  powerful  Soliloques  du 
Pauvre  by  Jehan  Rictus  which,  to  employ  an  expression  here  taking 
its  full  force,  are  of  a  “very  acute  modernity”: 

Et  qu’on  m’tue  ou  qu’jaille  en  prison, 

J’m’en  fou,  je  n’connais  pas  d’contraintes; 

J’suis  I’Homm’  modern,  qui  pouss’  sa  plainte, 

Et  vous  savez  hen  qu’  j’ai  raison 

( L’ Diver .) 

A  complex  desire  to  “remake  this  life  which  we  lead  and  which  we  no 
longer  accept”  impels  Roger  Devigne,  the  friend  of  the  fairies,  the 
valiant  director  of  L’Encrier,  to  celebrate  the  builders  of  ideal  cities 
and  the  adventurous  roads : 

Les  grands  chemins  marins  et  les  syrtes  profondes 
— O  les  chemins  qui  ne  sont  pas  tou jours  pareils 
Et  qui  s’en  vont  vers  Vautre  bout  du  monde! 

( Odeur  marine. ) 

An  anxiety  dictates  Paroles  devant  la  Vie  by  Alexandre  Mercereau 
who,  in  a  tone  intermediate  between  Maeterlinck’s  meditative  analysis 
and  the  lyricism  of  the  Unanimists,  seeks  to  determine  “in  the  in¬ 
describable  and  terrifying  world  splendour”  the  place  reserved  for 
“the  perfection  of  this  minuscular  and  immense  life.” 

Into  this  region  of  disquietude  and  of  the  critical  revision  of  modern 
values  the  sons  of  Israel  entered  without  effort:  “Every  idea  is 
empty  for  the  Jew,  if  it  be  not  efficacious,”  declared  Henri  Franck. 
La  Danse  devant  V Arche  is  the  search  for  an  efficacious  metaphysics. 
The  young  Levite  who  was  at  first  in  the  Temple 

Le  plus  leger  de  ceux  qui  dansent  devant  1’ Arche, 

Jt 

loses  his  faith  in  the  God  of  his  Fathers: 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  237 

Les  mots  que  tu  as  dits,  je  ne  les  corner  ends  plus. 

He  sets  out  therefore  in  spite  of  the  sentiment  of  his  weakness  and 
the  temptation  of  hypocrisy,  “towards  the  necessary  God.”  For  a 
moment  (very  close  here  to  the  Unanimists)  he  believes  that  God  will 
spring  from  the  group  of  his  friends ;  but  individualism  remains  the 
stronger  and  it  is  for  each  to  recognize 

Le  chemin  oil  il  doit  marcher  seul  et  sans  aide. 


He  then  adores  Republican  France,  but  she  does  not  dare  affirm  her¬ 
self  and  “become  her  own  God.”  Exoticism  attracts  him,  but  the 
rigid  immobility  of  the  old  lands,  their  “sterile  God,”  could  not  hold 
him.  Will  he  come  to  a  halt  in  the  poetical  creation  which  equals 
man  to  God?  No.  For  full  artistic  enjoyment  requires  that  one 
shall  already  have  found  God  or  not  look  for  him.  He  has  not 
reached  that  point : 

Je  suis  un  feu  de  joie  au  coeur  d’un  carrefour  .  .  . 

Je  suis  un  des  relais  ou  Dieu  s’est  arrete  .  .  . 


Death  surprised  Franck  in  that  ardent,  happy  solitude : 

Si  Varche  est  vide  ou  tu  pensais  trouver  la  loi, 

Rien  n’est  reel  que  ta  danse  .  .  . 

Our  analysis  has  shown  the  strong  unity  of  this  philosophical  poem, 
our  extracts  prove  the  aptitude  of  the  blank  alexandrin  (French 
|i  equivalent  of  the  decasyllables  of  Paradise  Lost )  to  embody  abstract 
truths. 

It  is  easy  to  imagine  the  disciplined  works  a  Henri  Franck  might 
[  have  written  had  he  been  strengthened  by  age  in  his  triple  as- 
i  surance  of  “professor,  Jew  and  Frenchman.”  One  would  not  dare 
!i  wish  Andre  Spire  a  calm  which  would  exhaust  the  unequal  and  power- 
i  ful  lyricism  of  Versets.  The  two  parts  of  this  work — Et  vous  riez! 
|  and  Poemes  Juifs — offer  a  complete  image  of  that  spirit  whose  law  is  a 
|  prophetic  disquietude. 

Je  ne  sais  pas  aimer  sechement,  comme  un  pretre, 


i  he  already  said  in  La  Cite  pre sente.  He  feels  only  impatience  for 
1  everything  not  absolute : 

Je  cherche  un  univers  ou  Von  ne  classe  pas , 

Ou  Von  ignore,  ou  Von  devine 

{Et  vous  riez!) 


!  Encouraged  by  his  friends,  he  went  to  the  people.  The  people  did  not 
:  understand  him.  His  friends  accuse  him  of  having  betrayed  them 


238  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

and  continue  their  artificial  life.  Death  destroys  his  loves  and  grief 

crushes  him.  At  times  he  admits  he  is  tired  of  theories : 

Oh!  n’inventons  plus  de  systemes! 

Bepose-toi,  tete  blessee, 

Sur  les  qenoux  de  ton  amie 

(Id.) 

In  a  hope  of  simplicity,  he  abandons  his  books  and,  like  Vigny, 
turns  to  nature  there  to  flee  men  and  find  God ;  but  soon  he 
discovers  in  his  turn  that  nature  is  “the  enemy” : 


Tu  ne  calmeras  pas  mon  cceur  inquiet.  Nature. 

Moqueuse,  en  tes  yeux  verts  I’eternite  me  raille 

(Et  vous  riez!) 

Eternally  dissatisfied  he  sharpens  a  Heine-like  irony  against  others 
and  against  himself : 

Dieu  t’est-il  done  si  necessaire? 

N’es-tu  pas  Valcool,  le  tabac,  les  femmes ? 

(Et  vous  riez!) 

For  those  of  his  race,  Spire  is  pitiless  and  lashes  them  harshly: 


Tu  es  content,  tu  es  content! 

Ton  nez  est  presque  droit,  ma  foi! 

Et  puis  tant  de  chretiens  ont  le  nez  un  peu  courbe! 

(Poemes  juifs.) 

This  Israel,  which  Franck  said  was  “dead  of  having  given  a  God 
to  the  world,”  Spire  wishes  to  wrest  from  its  lethargy.  He  sees 
in  it  “the  only  proletariat  in  which  I  can  still  hope.”  Prophet  of  a 
hopeless  faith,  he  reminds  it  of  the  precepts  of  the  Talmud  and  of  the 
Ritual,  throws  it  the  savage  lessons  of  Nudites  or  this  fierce  appeal: 


Aux  armes! 

Ecoute  Israel, 

(Poemes  juifs.) 


Le  Secret  mingles  moreover  the  mystical  hope  of  the  “new  Saviour”  with 
brutal  mockery.  If  we  compare  Le  Printemps  with  the  poems  which 
bore  the  same  title  in  Versets  an  appeasement  will  be  noted ;  and  like¬ 
wise  Spire  who  formerly  begged  his  “genii”  to  protect  him  against 
the  French  spirit,  has  described  his  devastated  country  in  touching 
terms.  Events  now  render  possible  this  exodus  which  he  dreams  of 
for  Israel  *• 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  239 

Qui  n’aura  plus  peur  de  son  vieux  peche 

Et  qui  laissera  ses  yeux  indulgents 

Jouir  des  mouvements,  des  lignes,  des  formes , 

Que  jadis  il  nommait  une  abomination. 

{Le  Secret .) 

The  best  poems  in  Le  Secret  are,  however,  those  which,  like  II  y  a  or 
Et  demain,  exhale  his  mournful  harshness  and  the  mistrust  of  the  man 
constantly  backsliding,  borrowed  by  him  from  the  sacred  books ;  and, 
in  a  striking  poetic  form,  his  drama  Samuel  exalts  also  the  dream 
which,  for  centuries,  comforts  and  dupes  Israel : 

Le  lion  comme  le  bceuf  mangera  de  la  paille 
Et  un  petit  enfant  les  conduira. 

Edmond  Fleg’s  aim  is  less  to  oppose  than  to  reconcile  the  two  ideals 
of  Judaism  and  of  contemporary  culture.  His  capital  work,  Ecoute, 
Israel  (the  cry  of  Franck  and  of  Spire  in  their  supreme  warnings), 
will  retrace  the  lyrical  history  of  the  Hebrew  people  from  Abraham  to 
Wilson.  The  first  two  books  of  the  seven  have  alone  appeared.  They 
were  moreover  the  hardest  to  write.  The  subject  called  for  a 
hieratic  form,  a  scrupulous  transcription  of  the  proper  names  which 
strips  them  visually  of  the  accustomed  emotion,  giving  them  a  volun¬ 
tary  rigidity  of  attitude: 

Et  Lieu  ferma  les  yeux  du  Pere  des  Souff rants 
Et  Iacob  mit  ses  os  dans  la  tornbe  en  pleurant. 

(  Vision  d’ltsrac.') 

The  consciousness  of  such  obstacles  to  lyricism,  the  dangerous  neces¬ 
sity  of  evoking  Moses  after  Vigny,  Samson  after  Milton,  Boaz  after 
Hugo  will  render  more  sensible  the  verbal  splendour  of  V Aube  du 
Temple,  the  fierce  grandeur  of  Eaux  de  malediction,  the  imaginative 
force  which  in  Le  Livre  de  la  Paque,  conjures  up  the  vision  of  Elohim 
without  weakening  it  and  in  Le  Livre  des  Semaines  his  grief,  which 
makes  Moses  and  the  Eternal  talk  together,  which  to  the  Psalms  adds 
the  canticle  of  the  stars,  which  renews  the  melancholy  magnificence  of 
the  death  of  Moses : 

Le  nombre  de  mes  jours  est  une  nuit  trop  breve. 

Ne  tue  pas  le  dormeur  au  milieu  de  son  reve, 

Et  desire,  Adonai,  que  mon  oeuvre  s’acheve 
Afin  que  ton  nom  vive  et  que  vive  ta  loi! 


(Moise.j 


240  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

- — an  epic  work  sustained  by  the  pride  of  the  race  which  was  chosen 
and  has  chosen. 

Le  mur  des  Fleurs  is  a  symbolical  vision  of  war  and  of  the  modern 
world  which  the  author  of  La  Maison  du  Bon  Dieu  can  also  regard  with 
humour.  After  a  prophetic  sleep,  the  Wandering  Jew  resumes  his 
journey  which  will  last  as  long  as  tears  flow;  but  he  does  not  despair, 
as  he  tells  his  brethren : 

Vous  ne  gemissez  point  sur  un  Temple  detruit. 

Celui  que  vous  pleurez  n’a  pas  encore  ete  construit. 

The  beautiful  Psaume  de  la  Terre  promise  defines  this  original  thought 
which  does  not  separate  the  accomplishment  of  the  Messianic  hopes 
from  the  pacific  progress  of  civilized  nations.  The  Psaume  is  a  song 
of  joy.  It  is  also  a  lesson,  an  invitation  to  triumphant  Zionism  to 
show  itself  worthy  of  its  victory,  to  make  “the  tree  with  roots  of  love” 
grow  in  Judea, 

Jusqu’aux  tempts  ou  partout  sur  la  terre  feconde 

Tous  les  peuples  voudront  le  planter  a  leur  tour. 

To  social,  or,  more  exactly,  cosmic  poetry  Blaise  Gendrars  has 
brought  the  methods  of  Cubism.  The  author  of  Du  monde  en~ 
tier  and  of  La  Fin  du  monde,  filmee  par  Vange  N.  D.,  loves  ApoU 
linaire  and  remembers  Max  Jacob.  His  favourite  form  is  the 
occasional  poem  and  the  Dix-neuf  poemes  elastiques  are  so  many 
receptacles.  In  these  improvisations  which  many  contemporaries  have 
copied,  Cendrars  amuses  himself  amusing  us.  At  times  he  realizes 
linear  progress  over  Rimbaud  and  extracts  four  verses  from  these 
words :  “Envergures.  Fusees.  Ebullition.  Cris.”  On  other  occa¬ 
sions — the  best — he  shows  himself  less  economical  and  concentrates 
Cubism  into  an  ingenious  “wireless”  style : 

Gong  tam-tam  Zanzibar  bete  de  la  jungle  rayons  X 
express  bistouri  symphonie. 

The  influence  of  Cendrars  and  of  Max  Jacob,  counteracted  by 
memories  of  Romains,  is  sensible  in  Lampes  d  arc  and  Feuilles  de 
temperature  by  Paul  Morand.  Thus  the  poetic  art  of  Plaque 
indicatrice  remains  vague  and  generous.  Too  many  Sufferings  in 
Giraudoux’s  manner  spoil  the  exotic  charm  of  Tendres  Stocks  the 
three  portraits  of  which  are  so  delicately  drawn.  Morand  has  quickly 
recognized  that  mechanical  jokes  are  less  suited  to  his  real  talent  than 
the  delicate  touches  of  L’Ode  a  Proust  and  he  has  become  the  brilliant 
story-teller  of  Ouvert  la  Nuit  and  Ferme  la  Nuit. 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  241 

Aurore’s  England  has  somewhat  intoxicated  Morand.  The  Ameri¬ 
cans  have  gone  to  the  head  of  Pierre  Drieu  La  Rochelle.  All  the 
political  and  economical  problems  have  assailed  him  at  the  same  time. 
F ond  de  cantine  is  the  liquidation  of  war  in  a  young  mind.  The  form, 
at  times  almost  purified, 

Ah!  rappelons  ton jours  les  adieux  a  Verdun 
De  cette  armee  d’amants  qui  mourut  assouvie 
Non  fletris  de  regrets  mads  leguant  a  la  vie 
Le  desir  des  Frangais ,  6  subtil  gout  humain  .  .  . 

usually  heaps  up  the  intemperately  Claudelian  verse  paragraphs : 

Non  canons  ont  nie  un  horizon  de  maisons.  D’abord  nous  avons  enfonce 
les  toits  das  les  murs,  Villusion  des  portes  a  ete  soufflee  et  le  ciel  a  dilate  les 
fenetres  dans  une  derision.  La  colere  des  obus  a  fait  eclat  chez  les 
epiciers  et  la  honteuse  obesite  des  edredons  creve  par  les  breches 

( Guerre ,  fatalite  du  moderne ) 

— a  juvenile  eloquence  which  seeks  its  discipline  everywhere  and  flirts 
even  with  that  Dada  of  which  Philippe  Soupault  has  magisterially 
defined  the  program: 

L’ intelligence  a  un  avenir. 

Dada  n’ a  aucun  avenir. 

L’intelligence  est  une  manie. 

Dada  est  Dada 

( Catalogue  N°  7) 

that  is  to  say,  nothing — or,  through  apparent  anarchy,  a  new  order. 
Of  this  Order,  Drieu  La  Rochelle — after  the  analysis  of  Etat  civil 
where  he  seemed  to  mark  time  without  advancing — has  indicated  the 
way.  Mesure  de  la  France ,  in  addition  to  an  eloquent  homage  to 
Raymond  Lefebvre,  attempts  the  reckoning  of  a  generation  and  ad¬ 
vocates,  with  touching  seriousness,  “an  intellectual,  moral,  corporeal 
redintegration.” 


8.  JULES  EOMAINS  AND  THE  ABBAYE 

The  complete  story  of  the  Abbaye  of  Creteil  has  not  yet  been 
written.  There  will  be  found  in  an  appendix  to  this  book  some  notes 
by  Rene  Arcos  on  that  important  subject.  For  the  literary  student 
two  facts  are  to  be  retained:  there  was,  about  1906,  a  general  effort 
to  renew  poetry  by  an  original  conception  of  the  poet’s  role,  and  this 
effort  succeeded.  There  exists  at  present  a  Unanimist  doctrine, 
philosophical  and  poetic,  formulated  by  Jules  Romains,  of  which 
young  writers,  like  Jean  Hytier,  Rene  Maublano  and  Cl.  A.  Puget 


242  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

make  use  and  which  has  manifested  its  vitality  in  recent  works  such 
as  J.  Portail’s  Androlite,  Henri  Dalby’s  Poemes  de  la  vie  mordue  and 
G.  Audisio’s  Hommes  aw  Soleil. 

An  attentive  study  of  their  works  suffices  to  dissipate  the  prejudice 
that  the  two  founders  of  the  Abbaye,  Duhamel  and  Yildrac,  are 
Unanimists.  No  doubt  Jules  Romains’  friendship  is  accompanied 
by  an  intellectual  influence  too  imperious  always  to  be  resisted — too 
reminiscent  at  times  of  those  ingots  of  Odes  et  Prieres  which  cannot 
be  coined.  Their  originality  lies  not  in  this  but  in  a  sort  of  French 
Whitmanism,  quiet  and  penetrating.  All  Charles  Vildrac’s  works 
could  be  given  the  title  of  one  of  them,  the  Livre  d’ Amour.  Each  states 
the  problem  of  life  among  men  and  formulates  the  same  solution  for  it: 

Mais  si  Von  avait  assez  cV  amour  .  .  . 

One  must  have  enough  love  to  become 

Un  homme  dont  la  me  rayonne  large  et  loin  .  .  . 

( Etre  un  homme. ) 

The  absence  of  human  love  is  his  sole  sadness : 

Dans  tons  mes  gestes  d’aujourd’hui 
Qui  sont  mes  gestes  de  chaque  jour , 

Je  n’ai  pas  pu  mettre  d’ amour. 

( Tristesse .) 

War  is  the  negation  of  love — whence  the  revolt  of  the  Chants  dw 
Desespere.  Through  this  bitterness  however  his  soul  has  remained 
outstretched 

Vers  un  morceau  hleu  du  del  de  tons 

( Elegie  a  Henri  Doucetj 

and,  faithful  to  the  lesson  of  the  great  white  bird,  he  has  hoped  a  day 
would  come  when  Europe  would  no  longer  be 

Un  deploiement  de  forces  divergentes, 

Mais  un  seul  destin,  un  amour,  un  arhre! 

(Europe.) 

And,  however  painful  to  him  may  have  been  the  war  which  changes  man 
into  human  material,  he  has  refused  to  repeat  for  long  its  indignant 
echo.  For  anger  is  “impure  and  sterile.”  On  its  ruins,  sustained  by 
friendship,  he  has  sung  anew 

I J  inquiet  e  joie,  la  fragile  joie 

(II  y  a  d’autres  poemes.) 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  243 

The  beauty  of  this  inspiration  is  visible.  Its  weakness  is  a  want  of 
solid  intellectual  structure.  Yildrac’s  art  has  not  found  its  balance. 
It  oscillates  between  a  good-nature  in  the  manner  of  Paul  Fort  (Si  Von 
gardait  .  .  .  )  and  the  masked  romanticism  of  Visite,  between  the  elo¬ 
quence  of  L’ Adieu  and  the  realism  (plus  a  reasoner)  of  Le  Paquebot 
Tenacity.  He  wrote  Decouvertes  in  prose  because  the  most  deliber¬ 
ately  prosaic  verse  still  keeps  certain  exigencies  and  suffers  from  the 
obligation  to  tell  little  sentimental  stories  like  LTntermede  ( Chants  du 
Desespere ).  Thus  Charles  Vildrac’s  most  perfect  successes  are  the 
poems  of  meditative  intimacy. 

Georges  Duhamel’s  first  volume  of  verse  contains  a  curious  Sonnet 
d’Une: 

Je  suis  VEsprit,  je  suis  I’eternelle  Beaute  .  .  . 

Et  Dieu  s’il  est,  n’est  Dieu  que  pour  m’ avoir  cree 

( Des  legendes,  des  batailles .) 

which  shows  him  very  far  from  Unanimism.  He  has,  moreover,  in  an 
article  on  Romains,  defined  his  position:  “I  confess,  for  my  part, 
that  I  seek  isolation  and  derive  from  Unanimist  adventures  nothing  but 
suspicion,  regret  or  disgust.”  Comparing  his  love  poems  with  Le 
Voyage  des  amants  or  this  beginning  which  might  be  by  a  weaker 
Romains : 

Ce  cher  bonheur  que  j’abrite 
Entre  mes  deux  mains  crispees, 

Est-ce  done  lui,  frere  etrange, 

Que  tu  ne  peux  pardonner? 

( Elegies ) 

with  this  song  of  spontaneous  tenderness : 

C’etait  un  matin  de  mai 
Gonfle  d’un  bonheur  absurde, 

Gonfle  d’un  bonheur  sans  mesure 
Et  que  tout  semblait  approuver 

(Elegies), 

it  will  be  agreed  that  his  nature  did  not  in  fact  incline  him  towards 
Unanimist  adventures : 

Car  je  ne  possede  aucune  puissance 
Si  ce  n’est  I’amour  et  ce  cceur  tremblant. 

(Elegies.) 

Now,  Duhamel  seeks  his  universality  not  through  a  synthesis,  but 
through  a  series  of  analyses.  His  unity  is  not  the  group  but  the 


244  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

couple  for  which  the  Manuel  de  Deification  has  only  mistrust — a  couple 
composed  of  a  patient  and  of  an  observer.  In  the  two  poems  ( Le 
Voyageur  and  Retour  du  Voyageur )  which  form  an  arch  beneath  which 
flows  the  lyricism  of  Selon  ma  loi,  the  couple  is  man  and  his  environ¬ 
ment.  Servitudes  tell  the  story  of  a  friendship.  Compagnons  evokes 
travel  parties.  Is  it  not  remarkable  that  Duhamel’s  most  moving 
poems  are  precisely  the  Retour  du  Voyageur  in  which  the  latter  feels 
himself  liberated  from  the  past: 

Victoire!  mon  desir  a  done  cette  puissance 

De  me  remplir  et  de  repousser  au  dehors  .  .  . 

Tout  ce  qui  fait  s’arreter  et  s’asseoir  ; 

the  end  of  Servitudes  where,  the  tie  of  friendship  broken,  they  meet 
again : 

Dans  I’air  fort  et  froid  de  la  solitude 

and  this  Adieu  au  compagnon  de  voyage :  “We  shall  each  be  one  .  .  .  ” 
which  is  the  highest  inspiration  of  Compagnons ?  The  four  ballads 
with  which  Elegies  terminates  are  reproached  with  being  stories  from 
La  Vie  des  martyrs  put  into  verse.  Their  interest  is  precisely  that 
they  establish  Duhamel’s  attitude — the  attitude  of  a  doctor  touched  by 
the  failures  of  the  body  and  of  the  mind,  showing  how  this  poet  could 
become  the  novelist  of  human  pity  admired  by  us  in  Civilisation  and 
Confession  de  Minuit. 

Duhamel  has  refused  the  label  “Unanimist.”  Romains  himself 
accepted  it,  after  1911,  only  for  the  convenience  of  classification: 
“We  have,”  he  declared,  “m>  internal  or  external  rule,  no  definite,  ab¬ 
solute  formulas.  Each  goes  according  to  his  inspiration  or  follow¬ 
ing  his  personal  program.”  However  literary  history  has  reserved 
to  Romains,  Duhamel,  Vildrac,  Arcos,  Chenneviere,  Durtain  and  Jouve 
the  name  of  Unanimist  poets  without  applying  it  to  Mercereau  or  to 
Barzun  who  figured  among  the  founders  of  the  Abbaye.  What  is 
there  then  in  common  among  our  seven  poets?  First,  the  same  con¬ 
ception  of  poetic  form.  Which?  Here  are  two  texts  in  which,  eight 
years  apart,  Romains  evokes  the  poet  in  the  melancholy  of  evening: 

Maintenant  rien  n  account  vers  mon  ame  aux  ecoutes; 

La  solitude  exhale  un  ronron  de  rouet, 

Et  Vetroit  lumignon,  verse  son  jour  muet 

Sur  le  papier  tres  blanc  comme  le  sol  des  routes. 

( L’Ame  des  hommes,  190 Jf.') 
Car  a  quoi  bon  les  larmes 
Si  Von  ne  pleure  pas 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  245 

D’etre  seul,  sans  espoir. 

Avec  un  doux  regret 
Et  de  ne  plus  avoir 
Pour  ecrire  sa  peine 
Qu’un  morceau  de  buvard 
E claire  par  la  lune? 

(Odes,  1912.) 


In  the  first  four  verses  a  contemporary  thought  puts  on  a  garment,  cut 
centuries  ago,  which  generations  of  poets  have  donned  after  some  slight 
alterations.  In  the  two  stanzas  of  the  Ode  this  thought  has  found  a 
new  expression,  its  expression.  Literally,  the  soul  has  created  itself 
a  body,  what  Romains  has  called  “an  immediate  poetry,  that  is  to  say 
the  direct  expression,  without  adornment  or  make-up,  of  the  reality 
our  soul  perceives.”  The  characteristics  of  this  new  style  are  the 
absence  of  symbol  and  allegory,  the  substitution  for  an  arbitrarily 
regular  unity  cut  by  artificial  rhymes  of  a  variable  rhythm  giving 
a  style  to  current  speech  and  sustained  by  alliterations  and  “a 
sonorous  relation  more  original,  fresher,  more  appropriate  to  metrical 
circumstances”  1 — in  brief,  the  creation  of  a  free  strophe  equally  apt 
for  translating  ardent  meditation  without  dryness  and  for  elevating 
the  minute  of  emotion  to  the  poetic  plane.  United  in  this  renovation 
of  French  poetry,  the  poets  of  the  Abbaye  do  not  however  form  a 
literary  school.  They  are  something  more  living,  a  group.  This 
again,  Romains  has  expressed  vigorously  in  Les  Copains.  There  is  no 
trace  of  official  solidarity  in  this  understanding,  but  the  consciousness 
of  a  solid  reality:  “They  were  content  to  be  seven  good  chums  .  .  . 
they  were  content  to  have  acted  together,  and  to  be  together  on  the 
same  spot  of  the  earth  to  remember  it.”  And  let  not  the  eleven  bottles 
with  which  this  final  feast  is  moistened  blind  us  to  the  force  of  Benin’s 
last  discourse:  “You  have  restored  the  pure  Act  .  .  .  Pure  Act! 
Pure  absolute!  Nothing  freer  than  you!  You  possess,  moreover, 
since  this  evening,  Supreme  Unity  .  .  .  This  evening  you  are  one  god 
in  seven  persons  .  .  .  Where  find,  to-night,  the  equivalent  of  what  is 
in  you?” 

We  have  come  now  to  the  heart  of  Unanimism  which  is  less  a  sci¬ 
entific  thesis  based  upon  the  works  of  Tarde,  Durkheim,  Levy-Briihl 
and  Le  Bon,  than  a  vision  of  the  universe  where  the  intelligence  and 
the  sensibility  of  a  philosopher  and  a  poet  are  put  at  the  service  of  a 
faith :  “If  you  doubt  the  unanimous,  create  it,”  says  the  Manuel  de 

i  The  Petit  Tra>it6  de  Versification  (1923)  by  Romains  and  Cheuneviferes  (1923) 
gives  a  complete  exposition  of  this  new  technique  showing  how  “it  attaches  itself 
to  that  of  the  seventeenth  century  by  the  natural  way  of  budding.” 


246  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Deification.  “Man  is  opaque  to  man,”  declared  Franck.  Romains  is 
not  without  egotism : 

Par  Vabime  dont  tu  doutes 
Un  homme  est  pousse  vers  toi; 

Vous  glissez  Vun  contre  I’autre 
Comme  deux  astres  fuyards 

(JJAutomne) ; 

but  he  knows  too  that  in  this  instinct  of  narrow  individualism  another 
need  opposes  itself : 

Une  sorte  de  carrefour 
Vous  appelle  a  la  fin  des  rues, 

Mais  tous  les  hommes  s’en  detournent 
Par  des  chemins  qu’ils  ont  appris. 

(Ode.) 

There  is  but  one  means  of  resolving  the  conflict.  The  Manuel  tells 
us  what  it  is :  “If  you  see  a  group  forming  in  a  city  street,  walk  up  to 
it  and  give  it  your  body  .  .  .  Penetrate  the  mass  gently.  Question 
the  men.  Learn  why  there  is  a  group.  Then  say  words  which  will 
incite  it  to  live.  Augment  its  assent.  Fan  the  fury  or  the  pity  of 
the  men.  And  think  the  group.”  Think  the  group  to  the  point  of 
deifying  it,  he  repeats  in  the  meditation  which  terminates  Puissances 
de  Paris:  “We,  poor  men,  shall  teach  groups  to  become  gods,  by  tell¬ 
ing  them  what  passes  from  their  consciousness  through  us.”  Now  this 
conception  reposes  upon  the  conviction,  nourished  by  philosophy  and 
by  concrete  experience,  that  time  and  space  are  things  infinitely  free. 
“Space  belongs  to  no  one,”  he  observes  in  Puissances  de  Paris,  “and 
no  being  has  succeeded  in  appropriating  a  morsel  of  space  to  saturate 
it  with  his  sole  existence.  Everything  interlaces,  coincides,  cohabits.” 
As  for  time,  Godard  in  Mort  de  quelquiun  reflects  the  thought  of  his 
creator  when  he  discovers  it  to  be  “arbitrary  and  elastic” ;  but,  if 
Romains’  thought  is  firmly  founded  in  logic,  what  animates  him  first 
of  all  is  faith  in  his  apostleship:  “What  I  say  will  perhaps  be  heard 
by  twenty  only  and  grasped  by  five ;  but  the  birth  of  the  least  of  the 
gods  would  suffice  for  the  glory  of  the  earth.” 

Romanticism,  it  will  be  said.  One  would,  indeed,  find  in  Ro¬ 
mains  oratorical  outbursts  in  the  style  of  Hugo.  Ambitious  to 
convince,  he  denies  himself  none  of  the  means  by  which  men  are  per¬ 
suaded.  Eloquence  is  one  of  the  surest.  There  are  in  Un  etre  en 
marche  and  Sur  les  quais  de  la  Villette  very  eloquent  pages.  The 
Ode  a  la  foule  qui  est  ici  employs  rhetoric  to  awaken  permanently  in 
this  mass 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  247 

Le  vestige  du  dieu  que  tu  est  maintenant. 

“Wrest  the  groups  at  times  from  their  torpor,”  counselled  the  Manuel. 
“Shock  them.”  Romains’  work  is  a  lesson  in  shocking.  He  enjoys 
shocking  minds  and  he  is  not  wrong,  in  L’Ode  a  la  Foule,  to  evoke 
“the  brutality  of  his  love.”  If  he  helps  us  to  discover,  with  the  powers 
of  Paris,  certain  of  its  beauties,  he  has  none  the  less  jealously  guarded 
the  harshness  of  the  Cevennes.  He  asks  of  them  not  only  an  occasional 
beautiful  picture: 

Ce  qui  pense  dans  moi  ressemble  au  chewier 
Qui  est  sur  les  plateaux  un  matin  de  printemps ; 

La  brume  emplit  tous  les  vallons  jusqu’a  ses  pieds 
Tandis  que  le  soleil  lui  dilate  les  tempes. 

( Un  etre  en  marched) 

He  also  recruits  in  them  a  fierce  intellectual  energy  akin  to  the  brutal¬ 
ity  of  the  people  in  Cromedeyre-le-Vieil: 

II  faudra  beaucoup  de  caresses 
Afin  que  les  corps  de  vos  femmes 
Ne  soient  plus  de  froids  Strangers  .  .  .” 

announces  mother  Agatha  for  whom  evidently  love  is  not  an  end.  Is 
it  anything  but  a  means  for  him  who  writes  in  the  Manuel:  “You  shall 
not  avoid  coupling;  but  you  shall  distrust  the  couple.  The  wise  man 
will  put  love  to  sleep”?  The  couple,  the  family,  are  so  many  obstacles 
to  this  unanimous  will  which  gives  Le  Voyage  des  Amants  its  beautiful 
peroration.  The  group  must  be  awakened  by  shocking  it,  by  scandal¬ 
izing  it,  by  mystifying  it  at  need.  Romains  is  capable  of  sym¬ 
pathy.  The  “European  and  human”  emotion  is  great  in  several  tales 
in  Sur  les  quais.  In  La  Charge  des  autobus  and  Cromedeyre  he;  has 
elevated  contemporary  actions  to  the  epic ;  but  it  would  be  foolish  to 
count  upon  his  lucidity’s  disarming.  He  creates  gods,  he  intends  to 
force  their  acceptance.  His  art  is  a  virile  art  which  hates  senti¬ 
mentality:  “You  must  have  either  the  consent  or  the  submission  of 
other  men.”  Ambert  and  Issoire  are  quite  powerless  to  give  or  to 
refuse  consent.  By  mystifying  them,  the  chums  subdue  the  two  towns 
with  a  flood  of  buffooneries  and  of  a  priapism  a  hundred  times 
healthier  than  the  whinings  of  the  adepts  of  a  religion  of  humanity. 
Mystification  is  creative.  It  has  drawn  Donogoo-Tonka  from  noth¬ 
ingness.  Romains’  violence  strikes  souls  that  a  God  may  spring  from 
them. 

Romains’  dogmatism  is  undeniable.  Romains  would  not  be  Romains 
did  he  not  Cassarize.  Each  of  his  books  requires  acquaintance  with 


248  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

those  which  preceded  it.  Le  Bourg  regenere  is  very  amusing.  It  is 
above  all  implacable.  There  is  nothing  which  does  not  converge  in  it 
to  justify  the  subtitle,  “Conte  de  la  vie  unanime” ;  but  one  is  a 
little  surprised  at  the  reproach  which  Gourmont  addressed  to  Mort  de 
quelqu’un:  “I  believe  his  method  would  be  more  appreciated  if  he 
applied  it  less  strictly  and  less  visibly.”  What  strikes  us,  on  the 
contrary,  each  time  we  read  this  book,  is  the  art  with  which  Romains 
has  varied  the  different  soul-states  he  depicted,  passing  from  the  in¬ 
dividual  to  the  collective  by  rarely  subtle  gradations.  “Sometimes  you 
will  feel  yourselves  fully  in  the  power  of  the  gods,  their  torrent  rush¬ 
ing  through  you.  Bring  hack  your- dead  and  give  him  to  drink.” 
Mort  de  quelqu’un  describes,  apropos  of  a  banal  death,  an_unconscious 
draft  in  ordinary  minds  of  that  conscious  work  prescribed  to  us 
by  the  Manuel.  Retaining  the  appearance  of  time  and  of  space, 
Romains  pierces  their  illusion  and,  without  a  philosophical  com¬ 
mentary,  by  the  power  of  the  story  alone,  restores  to  human  thought 
the  rights  over  human  duration  claimed  by  the  general  in  L’Armee 
dans  la  ville: 

Mon  corps  est  en  train  de  mourir  .  .  . 

Mais  je  sens  que  I’armee  se  retrouve  et  se  tient  .  .  . 

C’est  toi  qui  vas  finir.  Je  te  passe  ma  mort  .  .  . 

,  Je  suis  vivant.  C’est  moi  qui  suis  vivant! 

In  operating  what  Duhamel  calls  “a  displacement  of  the  pathetic,” 
Romains  has  succeeded  so  far  as  to  blind  certain  critics  too  uniquely 
sensible  to  the  verbal  virtuosity  of  the  descriptions  in  Puissances  de 
Paris,  to  the  concrete  richness  of  Sur  les  quais,  to  the  moving  sobriety 
of  Mort  de  quelqu’un:  “I  am  going  to  continue  to  live,_in-my  rhythm 
and  in  my  place,  a  measure  before  some,  a  measure  after  others^  in 
time  with  nobody;  and,  some  future  evening,  I,  too,  shall  be  someone 
dead.”  Stopping  short  at  these  external  qualities  of  his  work,  a  critic 
has  said  that  the  prose  writer  exceeded  the  poet  in  him.  It  would  be 
just  as  legitimate  to  confine  him  in  the  laboratory  to  carry  on  there 
the  experiments  of  La  Vision  extra-retinienne  tending  to  give  all  the 
regions  of  the  periphery  of  the  group  “human  body”  the  function  of 
which  the  eye  seems  to  have  secured  the  privilege.  Romains’  rude, 
tenacious  will  exploits  a  mind  so  rich  and  so  various  that,  with  him, 
wishing  is  almost  synonymous  with  doing.  The  writer  who  ingeniously 
renews  a  theme  at  first  sight  very  unprofitable,  devoting  half  of  TJn 
etre  en  marchS  to  the  promenade  of  a  little  girls’  boarding-school,  and 
finds  in  it  unforgettable  accents,  is,  when  it  pleases  him,  an  excellent 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  249 

novelist ;  but  the  source  of  this  inspiration  is  in  La  vie  unanime  and  in 
the  Odes.  The  key  phrases  of  Les  Copains  are  full  of  poetry :  “The 
table  was  at  the  level  of  his  navel ;  and  the  group  of  the  comrades  clung 
to  him,  ended  in  him,  like  a  taper  in  its  flame  ...  In  the  soft  night, 
they  enter  joy  with  a  double  ploughshare.  Then  they  knew  what  the 
world  is  for  two  men  in  motion.”  Only  a  poet  could  put  the  subjects 
of  L’armee  and  Cromedeyre  on  the  stage ;  and  it  is  the  poet  who  con¬ 
cludes  the  cinematographic  tale  of  Donogoo:  “As  if,  yielding  to  a 
friendly  pressure,  the  world  renounced,  for  one  evening,  its  spatial 
fashion  and  all  sorts  of  habits.”  His  originality  however  (and  hence 
it  is  he  disconcerts  some)  is  not  one-sided.  Certain  have  taken  M.  Le 
Trouhadec  saisi  par  la  debauche  for  a  simple  farce,  insensible  to  its 
effects  of  “geometric  comedy,”  of  action  played  between  the  lines  de¬ 
fined  by  personages  whose  diverse  faces  are  combined  in  the  manner  of 
cubes  turned  over  and  over.  Likewise  Lucienne  may  be  treated  in  the 
first  place  as  excellent  “caniilar”  tending  to  persuade  women  they  are 
“like  that” ;  but  one  soon  discovers  beneath  the  paradox  a  deeper  truth : 
the  movement  of  two  individuals  who  tend  to  form  a  couple,  an  aspira¬ 
tion  first  thwarted,  then  favored  by  the  “Barbelent  group.”  Is  this 
to  say  that  Unanimism' — capable  of  becoming  in  less  skilful  hands  a 
convenient  “dodge” — will  supplant  the  “psychology  of  penetration?” 
No,  but  it  supplements  this,  adding  to  it  the  sense  of  a  life  where 
“beauty  and  love  are  rooted  in  a  dense  matter.”  Here  again  we  note 
a  close  alliance  between  thought  and  vision. 

This  poet  deserves  to  have  one  of  his  verses  borrowed: 

L’air  qu’on  respire  a  comme  un  gout  mental, 

true  of  all  his  work,  without  however  his  being  carried  away  by  ab¬ 
straction.  To  the  variety  of  the  rhythms  corresponds  an  equal  abun¬ 
dance  of  images,  more  voluntary  in  the  first  volumes,  more  flexible  after 
the  Odes. 

To  approach  the  master  of  the  Unanimist  doctrine  as  a  frigid 
philosopher  would  be  the  gravest  error.  There  are  few  dramas  so 
moving  as  that  which  is  revealed  in  this  poetry ;  but  this  drama  involves 
the  total  grandeur  of  a  being.  Thus  intelligence  never  abdicates  in  it. 
Romains  has  confessed  an  admiration  for  Rimbaud.  It  is  difficult  to 
imagine  him  repeating  the  words  of  Le  Delire:  “I  loved  idiotic  paint¬ 
ings  .  .  .”  His  fantasy  is  never  perverse.  Lacking  certitude  he 
stiffens  himself  in  a  virile  pride : 

Je  ne  veux  pas  d’un  Dieu  tremblant  devant  ma  force 

( Prieres .) 


250  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

The  Prieres  and  certain  Odes  reflect  the  disarray  of  the  man  who  no 
longer  hears  the  appeal  of  his  truth  or  attempts  to  escape  it  : 

Une  lueur  cherche  a  m’ atteindre 
Dans  Varrier  e-coin  du  sommeil, 

Comme  une  main  froide  qui  fouille 
Le  terrier  ou  tremble  une  bete. 

( Odes .) 

He  has  not,  however,  abandoned  the  struggle,  proving  by  his  example 
how  far  Unanimism  becomes  one  with  the  conquest  of  the  world  by  the 
individual.  For  Romains  is  a  conquerer,  the  brother  of  the  chief  who, 
in  his  first  drama,  dominates  the  two  hostile  groups — the  army  which  is 
his  work,  the  city  prepared  for  his  assassination.  Europe  attests  this 
superiority  of  the  poet  to  his  time.  He  has  said,  with  a  penetrating 
purity,  how,  on  the  eve  of  the  catastrophe,  he  sang: 

Nous  aurions  sauve  le  monde 
En  sifflant  un  air  de  danse. 

The  event  has  passed: 

II  a  broye  pesamment. 

Mis  en  morceaux,  mis  en  poudre 
Certaines  images  du  monde 
Que  les  hommes  trop  mortels 
Portaient  sous  les  os  du  front. 

Beneath  the  unexpected  blow  the  poet  has  reeled,  to  recover  himself 
instantly : 

Ils  auront  beau  pousser  leur  crime; 

Je  reste  gar  ant  et  gardien 
De  deux  or  trois  choses  divines. 

During  the  tempest  he  held  fast ;  and  now,  here  he  is  sounding  the  recall 
of  intelligences,  strengthened  by  the  ordeal  in  his  fervent  truth.  At 
times  the  god  that  he  wanted,  that  he  created  with  all  his  visionary 
power  and  slaked  with  his  authoritative  music,  remains  a  moment  hid¬ 
den  from  the  human  eye: 

Mais,  quand  il  reparait  tout  a  coup, 

II  se  developpe  une  evidence 
V entablement  universelle ; 

Et,  dans  une  espece  de  fanfare, 

Votre  vie  en  bloc  est  soulevee 
"Comme  un  poids  au  bout  d’un  bras  tendu 

( Voyages  des  amants.') 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  251 

Georges  Chenneviere  is  Romains’  most  faithful  disciple.  The  sub¬ 
ject  of  his  Printemps  was  rather  schematic:  the  influence  of  renewal  on 
the  soul  of  a  young  convalescent — enthusiastic  dreams,  disappoint¬ 
ments,  suicide ;  but  some  pretty  notations  adorned  this  dramatic  poem : 

Le  jour  sera  chaud  et  dore 
comme  le  pain  qui  sort  du  four 
et  dont  on  mord  la  croute. 

Poemes  accentuates  this  duality.  Avenir  and  Rengaine  are  school- 
exercises,  Dispersion  shows  a  Unanimist  sifting  outworn  Maeterlinck 
for  the  Dadaists’  sand-castles.  Without  Unanimism,  Chenneviere 
would  perhaps  have  remained  the  elegiac  poet  of  En  moi,  faithful  to 
Samain’s  nonchalance : 

U ennui  familier  qui  grimpe  a  mes  genoux 
Et  la  douleur  qui  me  sourit  en  robe  simple. 

( Hiver.j 

Through  contact  with  Romains  he  acquired  the  strong  discipline  which 
controls  this  grace : 

Ce  que  je  regardais  nest  plus  qu’un  souvenir 
Depuis  que  je  le  vois. 

La  fleur  que  je  sentais  a  perdu  son  parfum 
Depuis  que  je  la  nomme 

( Examen .) 

Chenneviere’s  originality  will  however  be  found  in  the  meditative 
poems  like  Fetes  or  in  the  fresh  idyll  Le  Chant  du  Verger,  the  origin¬ 
ality  of  a  musician  with  a  very  fraternal  accent  who  delicately  inter¬ 
mingles  the  songs  of  young  girls  before  there  springs  from  this 
symphony  the  graver  voice  of  love : 

Je  sentais,  contre  ma  poitrine, 

Sur  mon  coeur,  le  poids  retenu 
De  ta  douce  main  repliee, 

Le  chien  de  la  ferme  aboyait, 

Et  le  del  tombait  sur  mes  levres 
En  meme  temps  que  ton  baiser. 

Rene  Arcos  preaches  the  same  faith  in  the  divine: 

Quelque  chose  partout  ne  cesse  pas  de  naitre  .  .  . 

(Ce  qui  nait.j 

but  seems  to  seek  it  less  in  a  group  to  come  than  in  a  heroic  continuity 
where  the  past  collaborates : 


252  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Je  vois  une  guirlande  allongee  a  travers  les  siecles, 
un  toast  prolonge  de  coupe  en  coupe  a  travers  les  siecles 
Je  vois  les  immortels  qui  accrurent  le  dieu  .  .  . 

(Idem'). 

For  the  form  too  he  seemed  to  be  at  a  crossroads  of  influences,  re¬ 
membering  Verhaeren  in  the  lyrical  descriptions: 

Ainsi  sans  se  lasser 

Les  dieux  apoplectiques 

Aides  par  les  furies 

Barattaient  la  bataille 

Qui  moussait  jusqu’aux  nuees  .  .  . 

(Le  Sang  des  autres) 

and  Romains  in  the  meditative  halts : 


Rien  n’est  perdue  puisqu’il  sufjit 
Qu’un  seul  de  nous  dans  la  tourmente 
Reste  pareil  a  ce  qu’il  fut 
Pour  sauver  tout  Vespoir  du  monde 

(Le  Sang  des  autres). 


It  was  also  of  Romains  that  P.-J,  Jouve  was 
wrote : 

Des  tics  douleureux  dechirent 
L’air  male  et  heureux. 

J e  n’ai  rien  que  mon  reveil 
Et  I’eclatement  du  monde ; 


but  intellectual  ardour  at  times  masked  his  emotion : 


thinking  when  he 


(Parler)  ; 


Je  suis  une  droite  tiree 

Dans  un  reseau  dur  d’ autres  droites, 

Ou  chacun  n’est  rien  des  autres, 

Oil  nul  point  ne  passe  deux  fois. 

(Presences.) 

His  drama,  Les  Deux  Forces,  sought  to  introduce  the  Claudelian  lyri¬ 
cism  into  a  Unanimist  conception.  In  Vous  etes  des  hommes  this 
Claudel  influence  often  expands  the  verse  into  a  larger  unit  and  the 
human  tenderness  speaks  in  it  a  language  deliberately  rude: 

Allons — plus  haut,  plus  loin,  plus  eternellement! 

Vers  notre  juste  joie  et  vers  notre  eternite! 

Allons — pour  notre  eternite! 

(Tu  n’auras  pas  la  justice  et  tu  n’auras  pas  Veternite) 

.  .  .  Tais-toi,  tais-toi,  va,  allons  ensemble. 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  253 

Luc  Durtain  underwent  the  influence  of  the  poets  he  has  celebrated 
in  Face  a,  Face.  Kong-Harald,  the  poem  of  a  cruise  in  the  North,  de¬ 
scribes  the  landscapes  in  Claudelian  language : 

Et  augmente  tel  qu’une  femme,  mats  en  male,  j’ai  congu 

Les  epaules  de  moraines  formidables,  le  deblais  dresses  en  cones, 

Les  mousses  germant  polygonales  par  ordre, 

Les  vertebres  des  grands  monstres,  renverses  comme  des  sieges  vides  .  w  . 

Among  these  monsters  appears  the  traveller,  friend  of  Romains  and 
Duhamel : 


0  moi  qui  ne  m’ai  pas,  mats  suis 

Dans  Vinappropriable  etendue  ce  lieu  non  clos 

Dont  en  broutant  le  “ je”  s’approche  .  .  . 

Durtain’s  poetry  occasionally  seeks  subtleties  in  the  style  of  Fargue,  in 
a  frame  which  is  Cendrars’:  the  whole  world.  Such  a  verse,  purely 
enumerative,  from  Lise: 

L’ennui,  les  haines,  les  gifles,  intrigues,  cadeaux,  sornettes,  devinettes  .  .  . 

has  no  other  end  than  to  communicate  to  the  reader  that  sensation  of 
an  immense,  peopled  space  which  is  expressed  with  a  powerful  famili¬ 
arity  in  Le  Retour  des  houimes. 

It  is  in  Douze  cent  mille — the  novel  of  an  enriched  workman  who 
“leads  the  life”  then,  ruined,  returns  to  his  little  town — that  Durtain 
has  given  his  full  measure.  Braving  the  reproach  of  seeming  to  color 
at  times  a  humanitarian  chromolithograph,  he  has  wished  to  carry 
this  fresco  as  far  as  possible  in  its  details,  faithful  to  the  principle 
stated  in  L’Etape  necessaire:  “greatness  is  framed  with  facts.” 
Thence  his  strength  the  heavinesses  of  which  are  not  those  of  an  out 
of  date  naturalism.  Thence  his  success  in  painting,  in  the  bosom  of  a 
powerfully  evoked  society,  a  hero  living  solidly  in  this  work  massive 
in  style  with  violently  fraternal  resonances. 

9.  PAUL  CLAUDEL  AND  PAUL  VALERY 

Arthur  Rimbaud’s  name  has  recurred  incessantly  in  this  review  of 
contemporary  poets  who  have  often  been  intoxicated  with  the  heady 
wine  he  poured  them.  Among  Rimbaud’s  authentic  successors  should 
be  named,  with  0.  W.  Milosz  whose  Mephiboseth  and  Miquel  Magnara 
too  uniformly  sumptuous,  contain  penetrating  verses,  Saint  Leger- 
Leger  whose  Eloges  haunt  the  memory  mysteriously. 

And  we  must  here  speak  worthily  of  Paul  Claudel. 

Claudel  is  a  great  Catholic  poet.  If  he  has  chosen  Rimbaud  among 


254  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

his  masters,  it  is  because  that  Rimbaud  whose  trace  Peguy  thought  he 
found  in  the  spiritual  stress  of  UOtage  appeared  to  him  a  poetic  and 
Christian  precursor : 

Ton  siecle  etant  rectevenu  pcCien,  tu  avals  a  recommencer  la  recherche  et 
Vattente  avec  ta  vie 

Des  hommes  de  VAncien  Testament  qui  marchaient  a  la  recontre  de  Messie. 

( Consecration .) 


Very  early  Claudel  felt  the  necessity  of 

Quelqu’un  qui  soit  en  moi  plus  moi-meme  que  moi 

( Vers  d’exil.') 

Let  us  play  fair  with  him  who  is  standing 

Les  deux  pieds  solidement  assures  sur  la  base  inebranlable  de  la  Foi. 

{La  Messe  la-bas .) 

Let  us  not  confront  him  with  historical  considerations  when  he  thanks 
Sainte-Genevieve  for  having  twice  driven  back  the  invader  or  invokes 
the  Virgin: 

Parce  que  vous  m’avez  sauve,  parce  que  vous  avez  sauve  la  France 

{La  Vierge  a,  midi.) 


It  is  logical  that  his  Art  poetique  should  he  divided  into  a  Connaissance 
du  temps,  a  Developpement  de  VEglise  and  a  Traite  de  la  Co-naissance 
au  monde  et  a  soi-meme  which  ends  in  Conscience  and  in  God.  A  meta¬ 
physical  affirmation  dominates  his  whole  work  and  it  is  literally  exact 
that  he  conducts  “his  arguments  as  Cacus  did  the  stolen  beasts  he 
drove  to  his,  cavern.”  Claudel  brings  us  back  to  God  because  his 
point  of  departure  is  God.  Because  Claudel  is  a  Christian  poet,  the 
stake  of  the  dramatic  struggles  between  his  heroes — between  Sygne  and 
Badilon,  between  the  Pope  and  his  two  nephews — will  be  the  salvation 
or  the  loss  of  a  soul.  His  lyricism  will  prolong  the  Psalms  and  Ec¬ 
clesiastes.  La  Jeune  file  Violaine  will  have  invocations  inspired  by  the 
Song  of  Songs.  Because  “Naitre,  c’est  co-naitre,”  he  will  be  able  to 
write  of  Charles-Louis  Philippe: 

Le  void  qui  se  passe'  de  nous,  nous  passons  hors  de  sa  connaissance. 

There  is  more  however.  In  the  Introduction  a  quelques  ceuvres  Claudel 
asserts  that  the  true  maxim  of  man  is  not  the  “Know  thyself”  of 
Socrates  but  rather  the  Christian  “Forget  thyself.”  Forget  thyself, 
ne  impedas  musicam,  in  order  to  taste  the  whole  universe.  It  is  the 
position  he  took  in  L’Art  poetique:  “We  shall  place  ourselves  before 
the  totality  of  beings,  like  a  critic  before  the  production  of  a  poet.” 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  255 

One  sees  how,  God  having  delivered  to  the  poet  “uttering  the  name  of 
each  thing”  the  spectacle  of  the  world,  he  justifies  by  His  example 
what  he  says  of  his  Saint-Louis : 

La  seule  chose  qui  delivre  un  Roi,  c’est  d’ avoir  les  deux  mains  liees. 

Catholic,  Claudel  can,  without  fear  of  dispersion,  be  universal.  Like 
his  Besme,  he  contemplates  “the  extent  of  space,  the  duration  of  time.” 
In  the  Introduction  he  has  explained  how  his  characters  rebelled 
against  the  “reduced  universe”  in  which  he  at  first  enclosed  them  and 
demanded  the  whole  world ;  how,  one  generation  not  exhausting  a  drama, 
he  had  been  led  to  extend  over  sixty  years  the  trilogy  of  UOtage. 
He  has,  before  space,  the  Emperor’s  attitude: 

Je  me  tourne  vers  VEst  et  je  me  tourne  vers  I’Ouest  .  .  . 

( Repos  du  septieme  jour.j 

On  the  banks  of  the  Rhone  he  sees : 

L’Europe,  autour  de  nous  de  toutes  parts  pour  la  recueiller  profondement 
exfoliee  se  lever  et  s’ouvrir  comme  une  rose  immense 

(Cantate) . 

His  view  embraces  in  a  single  glance  some  small  village  of  France  and 
some  star  in  the  southern  sky.  For  he  unites  things  not  in  space  but 
in  time:  “Now  I  see  Waterloo;  and  yonder,  in  the  Indian  Ocean,  I 
see  at  the  same  time  a  pearl-fisher  whose  head  suddenly  breaks  the 
water  near  his  catamaran.”  All  ends  in  time :  “I  say  the  whole  uni¬ 
verse  is  only  a  machine  for  marking  time,”  declares  L’Art  poetique. 
The  emperor  moves  human  wills 

Afin  que  chacun  remplisse  son  heure  avec  exactitude 
Et  qu’a  VEternite  soit  fournie  une  mesure  cor  rede  du  temps 

(Repos). 

Platonic  memories,  vivified,  however,  by  a  Christian  poet.  In  Tete 
d’or,  he  mingles  Christian  images  with  pagan  invocations,  Latin  names 
with  biblical  names,  and  lends  automatic  rifles  to  the  hordes  of  a  Euro¬ 
pean  Attila.  Llis  reason  is  that  the  past  remains  ever  living  in 
the  present :  “It  seems  that  what  exists  can  never  cease  to  be  .  .  . 
at  every  hour  of  the  Earth  it  is  all  the  hours  at  the  same  time.”  The 
only  hour  is  that  read  in  the  constellations,  in  the  signs  of  the  Zodiac, 
the  eternal  symbolic  procession  which  passes  on  the  highest  platform  of 
the  L’Homme 1  et  son  Desir.  About  these  landmarks,  true  because 
allegorical,  Claudel  reconstructs  time  by  grandiose  masses : 


256  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Le  temps  qui  meurt  et  dispose  tout 
Se  retire  de  nous  comme  la  mer. 

{Tete  d’or.) 

Among  all  the  moments,  he  cherishes  those  which  are  not  precise  hours : 
“That  hour  which  is  between  spring  and  summer,”  in  the  Cantate,  or 
“the  hour  which  is  not  an  hour:  midday,”  in  L’echange.  He  loves  its 
detachment : 

Midi  au  del.  Midi  au  centre  de  notre  vie. 

Et  nous  voila  ensemble,  autour  de  ce  meme  age  de  notre  moment,  au  milieu 
de  Vhorizon  complet,  libres,  deballes, 

Decolles  de  la  terre,  regardant  derriere  et  devant. 

{ Partage  de  Midi.) 

And  doubtless  circumstances  have  favoured  this  cosmic  vision  in  the 
man  who  has  scoured  the  world  as  the  representative  of  France ;  but 
who  does  not  recognize  the  accent  of  a  mystic  conviction  in  the 
proclamation  of  this  instability? 

Toutes  ces  choses  qui  etaient  la  pour  toujours,  qu’est-ce  qui  leur  prend  tout 
a  coup  qu’elles  disparaissent? 

Voila  que  c’est  nous  qui  sommes  plus  solides  qu’elles,  et  c’est  elles  tout-d- 
coup  qui  bougent  et  qui  nous  laissent 

{Saint  Martin .) 

The  same  universality^  characterizes  the  influences  which  have  aided 
the  liberation  of  his  genius.  Rimbaud  and  the  Bible  have  already  been 
mentioned.  The  English  lyric  poets  and  Shakespeare  must  be  added. 
We  find  in  the  first  version  of  Tete  d’or  (1890)  images  of  human  life 
which  directly  recall  Macbeth,  and  many  of  the  moral  reflections  have 
the  tone  of  Shakespeare  in  repose ;  but  Claudel’s  true  master,  from  the 
beginning,  is  iEschylus  of  whom  he  was  later  to  translate  the  Orestia. 
The  second  part  of  Tete  d’or  evokes  the  memory  of  the  Persn,  and  the 
last  takes  place  in  the  setting  of  Prometheus.  The  interest  of  these 
remarks  is  merely  to  determine  Claudel’s  points  of  departure.  His 
originality  shines  forth  fully  even  if,  in  Repos,  the  Emperor’s  descent 
into  Hades  makes  us  speak  of  JEschylan  grandeur  and  his  ascent  to 
the  serene  of  Wagnerian  sublimity. 

For  this  universal  art  the  classic  verse  is  too  narrow  an  instrument. 
Claudel  has  shown  himself  capable  of  writing  regular  verses — for  ex¬ 
ample,  the  Vers  d’exil  or  the  Dedicace: 

0  seul  enfant  de  roi  par  mi  tant  de  servantes! 

O" pelerin  unique  en  marche  vers  la  mer! 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  257 

Etoile  du  matin  dans  le  soir  revivante! 

Astre  anadyomene  au  fond  du  jardin  vert! 

He  who,  later,  will  call  upon 

Les  neuf  Muses!  Aucune  n’est  de  trop  pour  moi! 

{Les  muses ) 

seeks,  beginning  with  the  Fragment  d’un  Drame,  an  adequate  form  for 
his  inspiration.  If  we  compare  the  two  versions  of  Tete  d’ or,  we  shall 
see  that  this  music  is  not  at  all  haphazard  improvisation  but  masterly 
progress.  Thus : 

Out!  quelle  chose  etonnante  c’est  que  de  vivre! 

Celui  qui  vit  et  pose  ses  deux  pieds  sur  la  terre  qu’envie-t-il  done  aux 
dieux?  ( 1889 ) 

becomes 

Out!  Quelle  chose  c’est  que  de  vivre! 

Quelle  chose  etonnante  c’est 

Que  de  vivre!  Quelle  chose  puissante  c’est  que  de  vivre! 

Celui  qui  vit 

Et  qui  pose  les  deux  pieds  sur  la  terre,  qu’envie-t-il  done  aux  dieux  ? 

{1895.) 

Fed  on  the  Bible  and  on  Rimbaud,  Claudel  has  constructed  his  verse 
paragraph  which  equals  in  flexibility  the  mobile  rhythm  of  iEschylus 
and  the  Shakespearean  mixture  of  verse  and  prose.  This  verse  para¬ 
graph  is  plastic  enough  to  serve  at  once  the  dramatist  and  the  lyric 
poet.  It  is  remarkable  that  the  typographical  singularities  which  at 
first  divert — words  isolated  or  cut,  detached  exclamations,  etc. — 
abound  above  all  in  the  dramatic  works  where  it  is  important  to  guide 
the  actor.  In  the  religious  poems,  on  the  contrary,  the  solemn  verse 
paragraph  marches  with  a  slower  pace  and  readily  encumbers  itself 
with  rhymes  and  assonances : 

Seigneur  je  ne  suis  pas  digne  que  ce  toit  vous  serve  d’ahri, 

Mais  dites  seulement  une  parole  et  celui  que  vous  aimez  sera  gueri. 

{Processionnal.) 

The  verse  paragraphs  can  even,  as  in  the  Ode  a  Dante,  construct  for 
themselves  strophes  with  interlacing  rhymes.  To  appreciate  the  ori¬ 
ginal  beauty  of  this  lyrical  instrument,  one  must  read  the  Cantate  a 
trois  voix  or  such  a  passage  as  this  from  the  Odes  which  renews  the 
music  of  French  poetry: 


258  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Les  mots  que  j’empioie, 

Ce  sont  les  mots  de  tous  les  jours,  et  ce  ne  sont  point  les  memes! 

Vous  ne  trouverez  point  de  rimes  dans  mes  vers  ni  aucun  sortilege.  Ce 
sont  vos  phrases  memes.  Pas  aucune  de  vos  phrases  que  je  ne  sache 
reprendre! 

Ces  fleurs  sont  vos  fleurs  et  vous  dites  que  vous  ne  les  reconnaissez  pas. 

Et  ces  pieds  sont  vos  pieds,  mais  void  que  je  marche  sur  la  mer  et  que  je 
foule  les  eaux  de  la  mer  en  triomphe! 

( La  Muse  qui  est  la  Grace.j 

Nothing  is  more  essentially  Claudelian  than  this  fusion  of  realism  and 
of  transfigured  reality.  It  is  all  very  well  for  Apollinaire  to  talk,  in 
a  preface,  of  “super-realism.”  It  is  in  Claudel’s  work  that  the  thing 
will  be  found.  The  most  harmonious  example  of  it  is  his  admirable 
Connaissance  de  VEst,  whether  he  describes  at  length  landscapes  of 
ocean  or  of  gardens,  whether  he  designs  a  minute,  delicate  print  (“let 
this  piece  of  silk  be  fixed  for  me  by  its  four  corners  .  .  .”),  whether  he 
paints  the  banyan  by  the  sole  evocation  of  its  dragging  effort,  whether 
he  suggests  immensity  in  a  phrase — “the  night  is  so  calm  it  seems  to 
me  salted” — or  whether,  apropos  of  a  pagoda,  he  compels  us  to 
hear  the  music  in  the  silence:  “At  each  angle  of  each  roof,  the  archi¬ 
tect  has  attached  a  bell,  and  the  globule  of  the  knocker  hangs  without. 
Pinioned  syllable,  it  is  of  each  heaven  the  imperceptible  voice,  and  the 
unheard  sound  is  suspended  there  like  a  drop.”  In  the  dramas,  this 
realism  readily  becomes  aggressive.  Claudel  wishes  to  remain  the 
robust  Champenois  whose  feet  are  planted  solidly  upon  the  earth.  The 
“look  which  pierces  to  the  core”  in  La  Ville,  the  strong  vulgarities  in 
L’Echange,  the  talk  of  the  workmen  in  U Annonce,  the  familiar  details 
concerning  the  life  of  the  saints  of  whom  he  sings  are  so  many  proofs 
of  his  taste  for  popular  imagery.  These  realistic  touches  serve  him 
for  the  vigorous  individualization  of  characters  like  Marthe  and 
Violaine.  They  intensify  the  tragic  irony  in  these  words  of  M. 
B  addon’s : 

Moi  I’imbecile,  le  gros  homme  charge  de  matiere  et  de  peches! 

Me  void  a  qui  Dieu  a  donne  ministere  sur  les  hommes  et  sur  les  anges,  c’est 
a  ces  mains  rouges  qu’il  a  remis  le  pouvoir  de  Her  et  de  delierl 

( L’Otage.j 

Such  realism  is  associated  with  a  comic  sense  which  proves  the  per¬ 
fect  health  of  this  art  too  long  reputed  hermetic.  There  is  scarcely  a 
play  by  Claudel  which  does  not  contain  some  enormous  joke  dissipat¬ 
ing  for  an  instant  the  exceptional  tension  of  the  drama,  and  the  com¬ 
plex  Toussaint  Turelure  would  suffice  to  demonstrate  his  verve  as  a 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  259 

lyrical  humorist.  For  Claudel  remains  a  poet  even  when  it  pleases  him 
to  invent  the  “satyrical  drama”  of  iEschylus  which  he  has  been  unable 
to  translate.  With  Protee  he  invites  us  to  a  Naxos  which  will  be  sup¬ 
posed,  “for  the  convenience  of  the  action,”  to  be  situated  between  Crete 
and  Egypt.  There  Proteus,  “a  poor  sixth-rate  god,”  feeds  his  seals 
with  fish  (both  being  “replaceable  on  the  stage  by  the  spectator’s 
imagination  and  the  music”).  There  unfold  the  adventures  of  Mene- 
laus  torn  between  two  Helens,  he  eloping  with  the  false  one,  the 
true  having  sold  her  rights  to  the  nymph  Brindosier  for  a  few  push¬ 
buttons.  Peguy’s  judgment  on  this  “summer  poem”  deserves  to  be 
quoted:  “What  shows  how  far  Claudel  is  saturated  with  Hellenism,  is 
the  deviations  he  brings  to  it.  His  deviations  from  Hellenism  are  in 
the  line  of  Hellenism.”  This  tone  of  lyrical  buffoonery,  this  creative 
unconstraint,  will  be  found  in  the  delicious  fantasy  of  L’ours  et  la  Lune. 

The  majority  of  Claudel’s  works  are  presented  in  the  dramatic  form. 
Though  he  is  the  author  of  ten  dramas,  several  critics  still  deny  him 
the  title  of  dramatic  poet.  Doubtless  the  discussion  will  be  enlight¬ 
ened  if  we  forget  all  that  has  been  written  on  this  subject.  Claudel’s 
plays  present  certain  characteristics  the  first  of  which  is  that  a  gen¬ 
eral  idea  underlies  each.  Tete  d’or  is  the  “drama  of  the  possession  of 
the  earth.”  La  Ville  opposes  exchange  to  communion,  Christian  com¬ 
munion  making  it  possible  to  “establish  laws”  which,  infringed,  involve 
men  in  their  ruin,  this  being  the  lesson  of  L’Echange.  The  trilogy 
has  as  its  subject,  in  addition  to  the  conflict  between  human  and  divine 
love,  “the  breaking  down  of  the  barriers,  the  meeting  of  the  races.”  It 
is  possible,  if  one  wishes  to  simplify,  to  find  in  all  these  plays  the  same 
idea:  modern  society  errs  in  destroying  the  great  Catholic  unity  at 
the  pleasure  of  individual  caprices  ;  but  does  this  conception  of  Claudel’s 
encroach  upon  the  life  of  his  characters  and  upon  the  development  of 
the  action?  No,  for  Claudel  possesses  a  very  sure  craftsmanship. 
To  see  how  he  has  formed  himself,  it  will  suffice  to  compare  the  two  ver¬ 
sions  of  La  Ville,  where  the  abstract  phantoms  have  been  replaced  by 
such  definite  individuals  or  again  the  character  of  Anne  Vercors  in  La 
Jeune  Fille  Violaine  and  in  U Annonce.  The  third  act  of  L’Annonce 
which  brought  to  the  theatre  the  perilous  spectacle  of  a  miracle  is  per¬ 
fectly  constructed  from  a  dramatic  point  of  view.  Likewise  the  first 
act  of  La  Fere  humilie  ending  in  Pensee’s  avowal:  “I  am  blind.” 
The  theatre  can  show  no  scene  more  poignant  than  those  in  which  Louis 
Laine  is  called  upon  to  choose  between  two  women,  in  which  Badillon 
bends  Sygne  to  the  divine  will,  in  which  the  two  Turlures  stand  face  to 
face;  and  if  a  more  restrained  emotion  be  desired,  the  meeting  of 
the  Emperor  and  his  mother  among  the  dead  or  that  of  Violaine  and 


9 


260  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Jacques  in  the  garden  are  as  satisfying  for  the  heart  as  for  the  mind. 
These  characters  are  very  living  men  and  women.  Their  struggles  are 
moving.  Claudel  in  fact  is  endowed  with  a  rare  artistic  impartiality. 
The  monsters  which  he  should  perhaps  hate — which  he  certainly  de¬ 
tests  as  a  Christian — he  does  not  overwhelm  as  a  poet.  Has  he  not 
written,  in  Part  age  de  Midi,  one  of  the  finest  love-dramas  in  our 
language  ? 

“The  end  of  art,”  says  Claudel  in  the  Introduction,  “is  the  search  for 
ensembles.”  The  great  lyric  intermezzi  ^t  the  climax  of  the  dramas 
are  the  visible  manifestation  of  this  exaltation  of  the  heroes  above  the 
crisis  in  which  they  are  involved,  of  this  Claudelian  “super-realism.” 
They  abruptly  unveil  the  tie  which  attaches  man  to  humanity.  All  the 
characters  in  one  of  his  dramas  form  a  concert.  Each  drama  is  a 
yerset  of  the  world.  The  virulent  satire  of  ‘L’Irreductible,  the  elo¬ 
quence  of  Aux  morts  des  armees  de  la  Republique,  the  overflowing 
lyricism  of  the  beginning  of  La  Muse  qui  est  la  grace,  the  sobriety  of 
the  “Mesa,  I  am  Yse,  it  is  I”  or  of  the  “I  do  not  hate  you”  are  the 
accords  of  a  unique  music  mingling  the  dense  notes  of  L’Ode  d  Dante 
and  the  suaveness  of  the  Cantate  whose  three  voices  alternate,  inter¬ 
lace,  separate,  prolong  themselves  in  recitatives  and  canticles : 

D’un  tel  art  insere  qu’on  n’y  trouve  rien  qui  commence  et  aucune  Jin 

(Cantate.) 

and  of  which  nothing  can  be  quoted  because  it  would  be  necessary  to 
transcribe  the  four  pages  of  the  Cantique  de  VOrnbre.  Assuredly  this 
universal  music,  hitherto  unheard  in  French  poetry,  has  puzzled  ill- 
attuned  ears ;  but  those  who  believe  in  the  unity  of  poetry  and  of  music, 
those  who  have  been  obliged  to  demand  of  the  ancient  Greeks  or  the 
modern  English  the  lyrical  nourishment  refused  them  by  the  oratorical 
traditions  of  the  French  classics,  Romantics  and  Parnassians,  will  not 
remain  insensible  to  the  most  grandiose  lyrical  transport  of  our 
literature : 

0  grammarien  dans  mes  vers!  Ne  cherche  point  le  chemin,  cherche  le 
centre!  Mesure,  comprends  Ve space  compris  entre  ces  feux  solitaires! 
Que  je  ne  sache  point  ce  que  je  dis!  Que  je  sois  une  note  en  travail! 
Que  je  sois  aneanti  dans  mon  mouvement!  ( Rien  que  la  petite  pression 
de  la  main  pour  gouverner.) 

Que  je  maintienne  mon  poids  comme  une  lourde  etoile  a  travers  Vhymne 
fourmillante  ! 

( Les  Muses.) 

Paul  Claudel’s  work  has  been  developing  regularly  for  thirty  years. 
Nothing  is  more  paradoxical  in  appearance  than  the  career  of  Paul 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  261 

Valery.  He,  too,  began  about  1890,  producing,  in  ten  years,  two 
slender  prose  works  and  a  few  poems.  Mallarme’s  influence  was  evi¬ 
dent  in  verses  like 

L’ombre  de  quelque  page  Sparse  d’aucun  livre 

(Valinas') 

or  the  second  tercets  of  the  sonnets  Baignee  and  Au  bois  dormant. 
The  end  of  F eerie: 

La  chair  confuse  des  mollefs  roses  commence 

A  fremir,  si  d’un  cri  le  diamant  fatal 

Fele  d’un  fil  de  jour  toute  la  fable  immense  .  .  . 

was  not  unworthy  of  the  master  Valery  had  chosen.  Fame  seemed  as¬ 
sured  to  the  young  poet  who  at  once  attained  the  abstract  firmness  of 

Traverse  sans  retard  ses  invincibles  trames, 

Epuise  I’infini  de  I’effort  impuissant, 

Et  debar asse-toi  d’un  desordre  de  drames 
Qu’engendrent  sur  ton  lit  les  monstres  de  ton  sang! 

(Semiramis.) 

and  the  sensual  suggestion  of  that  Episode  like  the  mutilated  marble 
suddenly  revealed  in  an  excavation: 

Une  feuille  meurt  sur  ses  epaules  humides, 

Une  goutte  tombe  de  sa  feuille  sur  I’eau, 

Et  le  pied  pur  s’epeure  comme  un  bel  oiseau 
Ivre  d’ombre  .  .  . 

Now  these  attempts  which  seem  to  us  successful  “rather  promptly 
(conducted  their  author  to  a  sincere  and  lasting  separation  from 
poetry.”  For  fifteen  years  Valery  kept  silent.  He  broke  this  silence 
in  1917  with  La  jeune  Parque,  expressly  characterized  by  him  as  an 
“exercise.”  Four  years  later,  the  review  La  Connaissance  having  or¬ 
ganized  a  referendum  to  designate  the  foremost  poet  of  the  present 
day,  the  majority  of  the  votes  went  to  Valery. 

“These  thoughts  are  not  mysterious.  It  might  have  been  written 
quite  abstractly  that  the  most  general  group  of  our  transformations, 
which  includes  all  sensations,  all  ideas,  all  judgments,  everything  that 
manifests  itself  within  or  without,  admits  an  invariable  factor.”  This 
passage  from  Note  et  Digressions  encourages  us  to  attempt  a  study  of 
Paul  Valery  which  shall  not  separate  the  prose  writer  and  the  poet,  the 
philosopher  and  the  lyric,  the  Symbolist  and  the  Classicist  recognizable 
in  him.  We  shall  strive  to  follow  in  its  detail  the  progress  of  the  mind 


262  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

which,  in  a  dense  and  perfect  work,  has  most  powerfully  stated  the 

problem  of  the  Mind. 

His  work  does  indeed  involve  an  invariable  factor.  Certain  verses 
from  Semiramis : 

Repas  de  ma  puissance,  intelligible  orgie  .  .  . 

Ce  calme  eloignement  d’evenements  secrets  .  .  . 

would  not  shock  in  La  jeume  Parque  this  verse  from  which: 

Quand  ( au  velours  du  souffle  envole  I’or  des  lampesf, 

would  not  surprise  in  L’ Album  le  Vers  anciens.  Even  at  the  most 
Racinian  pitch  of  his  inspiration  Valery  will  never  deny  the  lesson  of 
pure  poetry  given  by  Mallarme.  The  ear  seizes  subtle  correspondences 
between  La  jeune  Parque  and  Herodiade.  An  examination  of  his 
Apres-Midi  d’un  faune,  of  the  different  states  of  that  Narcisse  to>  which 
he  is  brought  back  by  a  need  of  confronting  himself,  will  show  the 
presence  of  this  invariable.  If  all  Valery’s  heroes,  whether  they  be 
called  Teste,  Psyche  or  the  Serpent,  write  MYSELF  in  capitals  (and 
the  “no”  of  the  Platane  is  yet  another  affirmation  of  an  ego),  it  is  be¬ 
cause  “the  pure  ego  .  .  .  dwells  eternally  in  our  senses,”  it  is  because 
the  highest  contemplation  of  the  mind  is  a  narcissism  which  tran¬ 
scends  egoism.  When  all  the  other  idols  are  broken,  there  remains  at 
least  precision.  “My  own  enthusiasm  spoils  it  for  me,”  he  writes  of 
his  Teste  in  1896.  “Enthusiasm  is  not  the  mental  state  of  a  writer,” 
repeats  the  Note  of  1919.  The  same  pitiless  intellectuality  and  lu¬ 
cidity  dictates  his  reply  to  the  vote  which  proclaims  him  first  among  his 
peers :  “I  feel  all  the  value  of  this  honour  ...  I  feel  its  danger  more 
distinctly  still.”  The  Introduction  a  la  Methode  de  Leonard  de  Vinci 
showed  him  as  early  as  1894  in  search  of  the  “universal  man”  whom 
he  believes  possible  because  he  believes  in  the  unity  of  the  mind,  in  a 
relation  dominating  the  vain  opposition  of  the  arts  and  the  sciences : 
“From  this  point  of  view  the  ornamental  conception  is  to  the  particu¬ 
lar  arts  what  mathematics  is  to  the  other  sciences.”  M.  Teste’s  room 
is  the  “any  habitation  whatsoever,  analogous  to  the  any  point  whatso¬ 
ever  of  the  theorems — and  perhaps  as  useful.”  Twenty-five  years 
later  he  will  write  that  the  problem  “presented  us  by  our  fellow-men, 
which  consists  simply  in  the  possibility  of  other  intelligences,  in  the 
plurality  of  the  singular,  is  .  .  .  comparable  to  the  physical  problem 
of  relativity.”  Echoing  the  “I  abandon  myself  to  the  delightful 
gait  .  .  .  ”  of  L’ Amateur  des  Poemes  responds  the  effort  of  Eupa- 
linos  “when  he  elaborated  the  emotions  and  the  vibrations  of  the  soul 
of  the  future  contemplator  of  his  work.”  The  invariable  with  Valery 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  263 

is  the  capacity  of  maintaining  himself  at  the  unique  point  where  all  the 
powers  of  the  mind,  scientific  or  artistic,  passive  or  creative,  are  united. 
In  the  Note  added,  in  1919  to  the  Introduction  of  1894,  he  sums  up 
his  first  conception  of  Leonardo :  “I  felt  that  this  master  of  his 
means,  this  possessor  of  drawing,  of  images,  of  arithmetic,  had  found 
the  central  attitude  starting  from  which  the  enterprises  of  knowledge 
and  the  operations  of  art  are  equally  possible.”  Now  he  himself  de¬ 
clares  this  idea  which  already  seems  to  us  so  original,  “too  immediate  a 
thought — a  thought  without  value — a  thought  infinitely  prevalent — 
and  a  thought  good  to  say  but  not  to  write.” 

We  shall  not  undertake  to  defend  the  Introduction  against  the  Note. 
We  shall  simply  read  them  in  their  order.  Let  us  but  remember,  as  we 
set  out,  this  statement  in  La  crise  de  V Esprit:  “The  things  of  the 
world  interest  me  only  in  their  relation  to  the  intellect.  Bacon  said 
this  intellect  is  an  idol.  I  agree,  but  I  have  never  found  a  better.” 
The  Introduction  describes  the  duel  between  the  diversity  of  things  and 
the  unity  of  the  mind  which  “strives  to  form  a  decisive  image.”  Di¬ 
versity  is  an  obstacle  which  is  destroyed  little  by  little  and  things 
finally  classify  themselves  “according  to  the  facility  or  the  difficulty.” 
All  speculations  have  as  their  aim  an  extension  of  continuity.  The 
great  man  who  is  “a  complete  system  in  himself,”  who  has  the  value  of 
“a  physical  hypothesis,”  possesses  the  secret  of  “recovering  relations 
between  things  whose  law  of  continuity  escapes  us.”  Now  one  of  these 
geniuses,  Leonardo,  has  proclaimed :  “It  is  easy  to  become  universal.” 
Genius  is  logical,  in  no  way  mysterious :  “Where  others  were  in¬ 
capable  of  seeing,  he  had  looked,  combined  and  did  no  more  than  read 
in  his  mind.” 

The  Soiree  avec  M.  Teste  lends  these  ideas  a  dramatic  form.  One 
must  read,  with  the  Introduction,  the  sonnet  Un  feu  distinct  .  .  . 
before  coming  to  this  extraordinary  work  which  is  neither  a  tale  nor  a 
prose  poem.  Nor  can  it  be  reduced  to  a  Poe-like  descent  into 
the  dregs  of  thought.  It  differs  as  much  from  Mallarme’s  Crayonne  au 
theatre  as  a  Cezanne  differs  from  a  Monet.  The  Soiree  is  the  first 
revelation  of  that  “desperate  distinctness”  which  we  shall  often  find  in 
Valery.  If  its  psychology  is  exceptional,  that  is  because  he  can  legiti¬ 
mately  base  himself  upon  truths  which  would  be  lies  for  anyone  else: 
“One  falls  asleep  over  any  idea  whatsoever”  when  one  possesses  the  dis¬ 
cipline  of  an  Edmond  Teste.  Hero  and  narrator  have  pierced  the  il¬ 
lusion:  “Every  great  man  is  tainted  with  an  error  .  .  .  Genius  is 
easy,  fortune  is  easy,  divinity  is  easy.  I  simply  want  to  say  I  know 
how  that  is  conceivable.”  Incarnated  in  a  Teste  who  will  die  without 
having  avowed  his  greatness  in  exchange  for  the  public  pourboire, 


264  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

anonymity  is  superior  to  the  glory  of  brilliant  individuals,  “a  little  less 
solid” :  “He  was  the  being  absorbed  in  his  variation,  he  who  becomes 
his  system,  he  who  gives  himself  entirely  to  the  terrifying  discipline  of 
the  free  mind  and  who  makes  his  joys  kill  his  joys,  the  weakest  by  the 
strongest — the  gentlest,  the  temporal,  that  of  the  moment  and  of  the 
hour  begun,  by  the  fundamental — by  the  hope  of  the  fundamental.” 
Such  a  mastery  of  thought,  an  inaction  so  comprehensive,  disgusts 
Teste  “with  the  formless  games  of  glory.”  He  has  every  audacity  and 
the  method  Valery  speaks  of  in  the  Etudes,  “offering  every  mental 
weakness  its  own  picture  through  consciousness.  Thus  (or  con- 
trarily?)  pain  itself  pales,  for  an  instant,  when  looked  in  the  face, 
if  that  be  possible.”  Teste  who  has  “killed  the  puppet,”  Teste  who 
“erases  the  quick,”  who  “combats  everything,  save  the  suffering  of  his 
body,  beyond  a  certain  grandeur” — Teste  would  triumph  if  he  finally 
found  “a  mechanical  sieve.” 

In  summarizing  Teste  we  have  not  left  Valery.  He  covered  the 
same  road  to  find  the  same  door  closed:  “If  I  began  to  throw  the  dice 
on  paper,  I  brought  but  the  words  witnessing  the  impotence  of  thought : 
genius,  mystery,  profound  ...  I  replied  so  promptly  with  my  piti¬ 
less  sentences  to  my  nascent  propositions  that  the  sum  of  my  ex¬ 
changes,  at  each  instant,  was  nothing.”  Enamoured  of  rigour,  he  al¬ 
ready  understood  that  “absolute  poetry  can  proceed  by  exceptional 
marvels  only.”  It  is  “the  rarest  and  most  improbable  thing  remarked 
in  literature.”  He  had  not  discovered  a  mechanical  sieve.  He  had 
indeed  formulated,  as  early  as  the  Introduction,  the  idea  of  ornamental 
conception  which  neglects  the  significance  and  the  ordinary  usages  of 
objects  characterized  and  known  to  keep  only  their  order  and  their 
reactions  so  as  to  obtain,  by  these  means,  its  effect  which  is  to 
awaken  emotions  and  images.  This  support  was,  however,  too  weak, 
too  lacking  in  precision.  Art  offered  him  only  “such  long,  rude  con¬ 
straints  that  they  absorb  all  the  natural  joy  of  being  a  poet,  leaving 
nothing  at  last  but  the  pride  of  never  being  satisfied.”  Teste  said: 
“Finding  is  nothing.  What  is  hard  is  to  assimilate  what  one  finds.” 
Valery  became  silent. 

When  he  spoke  anew  it  was  because  years  “had  been  disposed  to 
ripen  his  inventions  and  to  turn  them  into  his  instincts.”  In  the 
Note  of  1919  he  still  says  no  to  fame,  he  continues  to  defend  “man’s 
integrity”  and  attacks  the  Pascal  of  the  two  minds'  with  the  violence 
of  an  intellectual  equal.  He  even  draws  us  farther  into  “the  solitude 
and  the  desperate  distinctness,”  demonstrating  how  our  profoundest 
thought  remains  superficial,  how  “man’s  character  is  conscientiousness 
and  that  of  consciousness  a  perpetual  exhaustion.”  He  ends  then 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  265 

in  the  nihilism  of  these  two  propositions :  “All  things  substitute 
themselves  for  each  other — may  not  this  be  the  definition  of  things? 
.  .  .  The  intelligent  man  must  finally  reduce  himself  knowingly  to  an 
indefinite  refusal  to  be  anything  whatsoever.”  That  however  is  not 
the  last  word.  Claudel  had  won  his  liberty  in  the  slavery  of  a  faith. 
Valery,  if  he  continues  to  keep  as  his  idol  “the  obstinate  Rigour”  of 
Leonardo,  finally  discovers  that  “the  instituted  rigour,  a  positive 
liberty,  is  possible,”  that  of  the  mathematician  or  of  the  poet  both  of 
whom  work  upon  relations.  If  it  is  not  the  absolute,  it  is  at  least  gener¬ 
alized  relativity :  “Any  image  whatsoever  is  perhaps  but  a  beginning 
of  ourselves.”  For  the  artist  the  mechanical  sieve  will  be  “the  well- 
placed  constraints”  which  he  opposes  to  the  fire  of  his  inspiration. 
The  writer  will  feel  himself  at  the  same  time  “source,  engineer  and  con¬ 
straints.”  He  must  create  a  “language-machine.”  Valery’s  poetic  art 
thus  rejuvenates  classicism:  “Between  the  emotion  or  the  initial  in¬ 
tention  and  these  endings :  forgetfulness,  disorder,  vagueness — fatal 
outlets  of  thought — it  is  his  business  to  introduce  the  contrarieties  he 
has  created,  in  order  that,  interposed,  they  may  dispute  with  purely 
transitive  nature  interior  phenomena,  a  little  renewable  action  and  in¬ 
dependent  existence.”  Poetry,  liberated  by  the  invention  of  these  con¬ 
straints,  gushes  forth  anew: 

Honneur  des  hommes,  Saint  Langage, 

Discours  prophetique  et  pare , 

Belles  chaines  en  qui  s’engage 
Le  dieu  dans  la  chair  egare. 

( La  Pythie .) 


The  Note  already  insisted  upon  the  necessity  of  collaborating  with 
chance,  not  without  interpreting  it,  for  “our  reply  to  our  genius 
is  at  times  better  than  its  attack.”  In  a  Preface  a  Adonis,  Valery 
has  again  spoken  of  these  chains,  of  that  classical  language-machine  to 
which  he  submits  his  inspiration:  “I  do  not  say  the  ‘pathless 
delight’  is  not  the  principle  and  the  very  aim  of  the  art  of  the  poets. 
.  .  .  I  have  merely  wished  to  make  it  understood  that  the  obligatory 
numbers,  the  rhymes,  the  fixed  forms,  all  this  arbitrary  element  once 
for  all  adopted  and  opposed  to  ourselves,  have  a  certain  cleanly,  phil¬ 
osophic  beauty  .  .  .  Learned  poetry  is  a  profoundly  sceptical  art.” 
Perhaps  this  last  saying  is,  three  centuries  of  the  human  mind  later, 
the  exact  counterpart  of  Malherbe’s  on  the  skittles-player.  .  .  . 

Shall  we  be  reproached  because  we  have,  speaking  of  a  poet,  pur¬ 
sued  so  long  in  his  prose  the  traces  of  that  conflict  between  Apollo 
and  Dionysos  which  is  one  of  the  faces  of  his  thought?  Do  not  so 


266  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

many  quotations,  however,  establish  that  Valery  is  also  an  admira¬ 
ble  prose-writer?  His  obstinate  rigour  inspires  him  at  times  with 
haughty  formulas  in  the  style  of  Suares :  “That  means  making  one¬ 
self  more  foolish  than  one  has  ever  been;  but  foolish  by  necessity,  fool¬ 
ish  by  raison  d’Etat!”  See,  however,  with  what  pure  elegance  he  im¬ 
mediately  advances  his  thought :  “There  is,  perhaps,  no  sharper,  more 
intimate  or  profounder  temptation  than  that  of  self-repudiation. 
Each  day  is  jealous  of  the  days,  and  it  is  its  duty  to  be  so.  Thought 
denies  desperately  having  been  stronger.  The  light  of  the  moment  does 
not  wish  to  illuminate  in  the  past  moments  brighter  than  itself.” 
The  same  Note  contains  an  unforgettable  portrait:  “But  Leonardo, 
from  research  to  research,  makes  himself  very  simply  the  always  more 
admirable  riding-master  of  his  own  nature.  He  trains  his  thoughts  in¬ 
definitely,  exercises  his  looks,  develops  his  acts  .  .  .  He  takes  to 
pieces  and  reassembles  himself,  tightens  up  the  correspondence  of  his 
will  with  his  powers,  advances  his  reasoning  into  the  arts  and  pre¬ 
serves  his  grace.”  Thus  does  Valery.  He  has  recovered  that  “trans¬ 
parent  mode  of  discoursing”  which  he  praises  in  Racine.  In  the 
gaiety  of  Adonis  and  in  the  subtle  depth  of  Eupalinos ,  to  the  very  end, 
this  prose  preserves  its  grace. 

And  then  this  study  of  the  progress  of  his  mind  was  the  indispensable 
introduction  to  the  reading  of  his  poems.  The  end  of  L’Abeille  ac¬ 
quires  its  full  meaning  for  those  alone  who  have  first,  measured,  not 
its  precious  perfection  but  the  disquietude  of  this  genius.  The  drama 
of  inspiration  is  ever  present  in  La  Pythie  or  Le  Narcisse.  There  is 
more.  Under  its  significant  motto  from  the  Pythiques,  the  Cimetiere 
Marin — which  should  be  considered  to  date  Valery’s  masterpiece 
— is  a  meditation  precisely  parallel  to  that  of  Note  et  Digressions.  He 
contemplates  the  perpetual  flux: 

Comme  le  fruit  se  fond  en  jouissance, 

Comme  en  delice  il  change  son  absence 
Dans  une  bouche  oil  sa  forme  se  meurt, 

Je  hume  ici  ma  future  fumee, 

Et  le  del  chante  a  I’ame  consumee 
Le  changement  des  rives  en  rumeur. 

The  same  anxious  will  for  the  absolute : 

0  pour  moi  seul,  a  moi  seul,  en  moi-meme, 

Aupres  d’un  cceur,  aux  sources  du  poeme, 

Entre  le  vide  et  Vevenement  pur, 

J’ attends  I’echo  de  ma  grandeur  interne  .  .  . 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  267 

The  same  disdain  for  the  facility  which  expresses  itself,  the  same 
stiffening : 


La  vie  est  vaste,  etant  ivre  d’absence, 

Et  Vamertune  est  douce,  et  I’esprit  clair. 

The  same  consciousness  of  the  nihilism  by  which  man  poisons  the 
beauty  of  nature: 

Tete  complete  et  parfait  diademe, 

Je  suis  en  toi  le  secret  changement. 

And  after  the  same  negation  of  glory : 

Maigre  immortalite  noire  et  doree  .  .  . 

the  same  “desperate  distinctness” : 


Zenon!  Cruel  Zenon!  Zenon  d’Elee! 
M’as-tu  perce  de  cette  jleche  ailee 
Qui  vibre,  vole  et  qui  ne  vole  pas ? 


There  is  nothing,  first  and  last — 


Le  vent  se  level  ...  II  faut  tenter  de  vivre  .  .  . 


which  does  not  show,  to  speak  the  language  of  the  Note,  “the  struggle 
of  the  ordinary  truths”  resuming  its  course  after  the  moment  of  “sub¬ 
stantial  attention”  during  which  the  poet’s  mind  measured  the  world. 
The  same  drama — that  of  the  inner  life — gives  its  meaning  to  La 
jeune  Parque  which  was  originally  to  have  been  called  Psyche. 

This  thought,  so  tormented,  has  wished  to  express  itself  within  the 
limits  of  the  most  rigorous  classicism.  Paul  Valery  represents,  in 
contemporary  art,  the  supreme  form,  that  which  chooses.  There  is 
no  common  measure  between  his  classicism  and  Moreas’  classicism 
which  savours  of  artifice  and  is  limited  to  a  unique  sentiment.  It  might 
readily  be  said  of  Moreas  compared  to  him  what  he  said  of  the  dif¬ 
ference  between  Chenier  and  his  model,  La  Fontaine :  “His  art  seems 
slighter,  less  pure  and  less  mysterious.”  Valery  is  directly  related  to 
Malherbe,  Racine,  Baudelaire  and  Mallarme.  He  revives  the  great 
lyric  forms  of  the  seventeenth  century,  notably  the  ten-line  strophe  of 
Malherbe’s  odes  and  of  Racine’s  C antiques  spirituels  (seven  syllables 
in  Palme  and  Aurore,  eight  in  La  Pythie  and  Le  Serpent ).  An  ex¬ 
ample  will  show  how  he  handles  this  instrument : 

Sur  le  mur,  son  ombre  demente 
Ou  domine  un  demon  majeur, 

Parmi  I’odorante  tourmente 


268 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Prodigue  un  fantome  nageur, 

De  qui  la  transe  colossale 
Rompant  les  aplombs  de  la  salle 
Si  la  folle  tarde  a  hennir. 

Mime  de  noirs  enihousiasmes , 

Hate  les  dieux,  presse  les  spasmes 
De  s’achever  dans  Vavenir! 


{La  Pythie .) 


Master  of  the  pure  Racinian  perfection,  he  reinstates  in  it  the  Mal- 
larmean  density : 


Sonnant  dans  Vame  un  creux  tou jours  futur  .  .  . 

{Cimitiere) . 

He  confines  in  a  closely  wrought  stanza  a  lyricism  in  which  the  abstract 
vision  doubles  the  violence  of  the  imagination : 


Flagelle-toi!  .  .  .  Parais  Vimpatient  martyr 
Qui  soi-meme  s’ecorche, 

Et  dispute  a  la  flamme  impuissante  a  partir 
Ses  retours  vers  la  torche. 

{ Au  Platane.') 

To  the  caresses  of  Vlnsinuant,  to  the  insinuations  of  La  Caresse,  to 
the  marmorean  firmness  of  Le  Cantique  des  Colonnes,  he  adds  the  in¬ 
finite  suggestion  of  Les  Grenades : 


Cette  lumineuse  rupture 
Fait  rever  une  dme  que  j’eus 
De  sa  secrete  architecture 

{Les  Grenades') , 


a  tercet  which  would  appear  mysterious  had  we  not,  to  explain  it,  the 
words  which  Valery  lends  Socrates  in  Eupalinos :  “I  told  you  that  I 
was  born  several,  and  that  I  died  but  one  ...  A  quantity  of  Socra¬ 
teses  were  born  with  me,  from  whom  little  by  little  the  Socrates  des¬ 
tined  to  the  magistrates  and  to  the  hemlock  detached  himself.”  “And 
what  have  become  of  all  the  others?”  “Ideas.  They  have  remained 
in  the  state  of  ideas.” 


Gloire  du  long  desir,  Idees  .  .  . 

thus  sang  the  Prose  pour  des  Esseintes.  Mallarme  transmitted  this 
problem  of  ideas  to  Valery  who  sought  its  solution  even  in  the  soli¬ 
tudes  of  the  Introduction  and  of  La  Soiree.  Eupalinos  and  L’Ame 
et  la  Danse  efre  perhaps  the  prelude  to  the  great  work  of  poetic 
philosophy  Valery  owes  us.  Now  this  Socratic  dialogue  is  entirely 


CONTEMPORARY  POETRY  269 

orientated  towards  grace.  Already,  in  the  Introduction,  Valery  had 
emphasized  the  importance  of  the  architect  among  artists.  Here  the 
architect  Euphalinos  rises  higher  than  Socrates  blinded  by  the  prob¬ 
lem  of  knowledge,  higher  than  Plato  even  and  the  “very  admirable 
Stephanos”  who  saw  but  the  “too  simple  and  too  pure”  beauty  of 
Ideas.  Euphalinos  declares  “there  are  no-  details  in  the  execution.” 
In  advance,  “he  elaborates  the  emotions  and  the  vibrations  of  the  soul 
of  the  future  contemplator  of  his  work.”  We  find  here  again  all  the 
ideas  expressed  elsewhere  but  reared  as  the  columns  of  a  new  edifice. 
For  if  Valery  had  already  maintained  that  art  creates  its  spectator, 
he  now  adds  that  art  also  creates  the  artist :  “By  dint  of  construct¬ 
ing,  I  honestly  believe  I  constructed  myself,”  cries  Eupalinos  and  he 
adds :  “Where  the  passer-by  sees  merely  an  elegant  chapel,  I  have 
put  the  memory  of  a  bright  day  in  my  life  .  .  .  This  delicate  temple 
is  the  mathematical  image  of  a  daughter  of  Corinth  whom  I  loved  hap¬ 
pily  .  .  .  And  when  you  spoke  of  music  apropos  of  my  temple,  it 
was  a  divine  analogy  which  visited  you.”  Going  beyond  the  Bau¬ 
delaire  of  the  Correspondances,  Valery)  explores  the  psychology  of 
the  creative  spirit,  the  self-imposed  restraints,  the  delay  he  imparts 
to  the  Ideas  to  “obtain  from  what  is  going  to  be  that  it  shall  satisfy, 
with  all  the  vigour  of  its  novelty,  the  reasonable  exigencies  of  what 
has  been.”  For  the  artist  must  attain,  the  space  of  a  lightning-flash, 
that  summit  “being  free.”  This  is  what  Valery  musically  suggested 
in  Aurore: 

Leur  toile  spirituelle 

Je  la  brise,  et  vais  cherchant 

Dans  ma  foret  sensuelle 

Les  oracles  de  mon  chant. 

He  said  it,  precisely,  through  the  mouth  of  Eupalinos :  “O  Phedra, 
when  I  compose  a  dwelling  ...  I  will  tell  you  this  strange  thing  that 
it  seems  to  me  my  body  is  involved”  and  he  sings  a  hymn  to  this  body 
which  recalls  to  itself  the  soul  “like  the  anchor,  to  itself,  the  ship.” 
Now,  by  one  of  the  favours  the  gods  grant  poets,  the  capital  phrase 
of  this  passage  in  which  Valery  has  really  “chained  an  analysis  to  an 
ecstasy,”  takes  the  tone  and  the  rhythm  of  four  Claudelian  'versets: 
“But  this  body  and  this  spirit,  this  presence  invincibly  actual,  and  this 
creative  absence  which  dispute  the  being  and  which  must  finally  be 
harmonized;  but  this  finite  and  this  infinite  which  we  bring,  each  ac¬ 
cording  to  his  nature,  must  at  present  unite  in  a  well-ordered  con¬ 
struction.” 

We  have  traversed  the  valley  of  the  shadow  of  death,  passed  beyond 


270  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  kingdom  of  “desperate  distinctness”  and  the  time  when,  according 
to  Eupalinos,  “my  vast  reveries  ended  in  an  unlimited  impotence,”  in 
that  “mystery  of  feebleness”  which  Valery  describes  at  the  beginning 
of  his  notes  on  the  subject  of  Eureka.  Socrates,  enlightened  by  his 
“regrets,”  proclaims  further  that  “the  greatest  liberty  springs  from 
the  greatest  rigour,”  opposes  constructing  to  knowing,  dreams  he  is 
anti-Socrates,  a  constructor,  a  creator  of  acts,  rendering  a  supreme 
homage  to  the  artist  who  is  “the  contrary  of  indefinite  time.”  How 
many  centuries  is  the  poet  of  the  perfect  strophes  of  the  Serpent  or 
of  the  Cimetiere  marin  worth?  For  he  is  the  dialectician  who,  in 
L’Ame  et  la  Danse,  shows  in  reason  “the  faculty  of  our  soul  for 
understanding  nothing  of  our  body,”  bringing  us  into  collision  again 
with  that  “murderous  lucidity”  whence  one  escapes  only  by  “desperate 
bounds  out  of  one’s  form.”  He  is  the  lookout  for  those  minutes  of 
inspiration  when  the  “report”  which  demanded  years  of  research  re¬ 
veals  itself. 


Le  temps  ct’un  sein  nu 
Entre  deux  chemises. 

( Le  Sylphe .) 

He  is,  finally,  the  initiator  of  a  new  certitude,  simple/as  the  life  of  Des¬ 
cartes  whose  motto  to  La  Soiree  reminds  us  that  it  was  simplicissima, 
simple  with  the  complex  simplicity  conscious  and  sensual,  which 
abstracts  from  moving  language  the  definitive  marvels  of  pure  poetry. 

Cessez,  sombres  esprits,  cet  ouvrage  anxieux, 

Qui  se  fait  dans  Vame  qui  veille; 

Ne  cherchez  pas  en  vous,  n’allez  surprendre  aux  cieux 
Le  malheur  d’etre  une  merveille : 

Trouvez  dans  la  fontaine  un  corps  delicieux. 


CHAPTER  IX 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA 

WHEREAS,  in  the  number  and  the  vigour  of  its  poets,  the 
contemporary  epoch  can  compete  with  the  most  glorious 
periods  of  our  literary  history,  the  stage  suffers  from  a 
vice  which  many  observers  have  pointed  out  and  against  which  the  gen¬ 
erous  efforts  of  Lugne-Poe,  Copeau  and  Gemier  have  been  directed. 
The  divorce  between  the  stage  and  high  thinking  seems  to  become  more 
and  more  accentuated.  Against  the  attitude  of  a  part  of  the  public 
which  demands  from  the  stage  satisfaction  as  direct  as  that  derived 
from  moving  pictures,  the  true  dramatic  writers  react  with  plays  which 
interest  an  elite  alone.  The  rest  construct  standardized  plays  on 
popular  patterns  which  disgust  with  the  theatre  those  who  sought  in  it 
something  more  than  an  evening’s  entertainment ;  and  we  see  authors, 
managers,  actors  and  spectators  blaming  each  other  mutually  because 
“there  is  something  rotten  in  the  state  of  Denmark.” 

1.  THE  PSYCHOLOGICAL.  DRAMA 

La  Nouvelle  I  dole  had  marked  a  happy  balance  in  Curel’s  dramatic 
work.  This  was  destroyed  by  La  Fille  sauvage.  The  failure  of  that 
play  on  the  stage  and  the  interest  it  arouses  when  read  are  not  con¬ 
tradictory.  In  this  wild  girl  caught  in  a  bear-trap,  brought  to 
France  and  initiated  into  the  most  complex  civilization,  Curel  wished 
to  depict  the  evolution  of  humanity  which,  starting  from  barbarism, 
passes  beyond  religion  and  rationalism  to  end  in  moral  anarchy.  It  is 
easy  to  understand  the  difficulty  of  packing  such  an  epitome  of  history 
into  an  evening.  Sarcey  treated  the  drama  as  a  philosophical  dia¬ 
logue,  invoking  Plato  and  Renan.  In  this  “succession  of  lectures,”  he 
found  however  “the  general  instinct  and  superior  mastery  of  the 
dramatist.”  La  Fille  sauvage  renders  visible  the  paradox  of  an  art 
which  seems,  in  the  reading,  to  require  the  life  of  the  stage  and  to 
demand,  on  the  stage,  the  meditative  pauses  of  reading. 

Le  Coup  d’aile  is  a  purely  symbolical  drama.  It  contains  a  single 
hero,  the  flag,  materializing  glory  or  the  Fatherland  according  to  the 
men  and  women  who  regard  it.  Everything  else  is  sacrificed  to  it, 

271 


272  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

(even  the  psychology  of  the  characters.  Le  Coup  d’aile  has  the  value 
of  an  austere  exercise  and  connects  itself  curiously  with  that  vision  of 
moral  anarchy  to  which  Curel’s  last  plays  were  to  bring  new  testimony. 
When,  after  an  eight  years’  silence,  he  produced  La  Danse  devant  le 
miroir,  one  recognized  the  theme  of  L’ Armour  hr  ode;  but  one  was  also 
obliged  to  admit  that  the  author  had  deprived  it  of  its  last  possible 
hope,  that  he  had,  according  to  his  very  expressive  formula,  “trans¬ 
formed  the  exaggerated  dialogue  of  the  lovers  into  a  sung  waltz  of 
two  egotisms.”  The  original  idea,  that  love  lies,  was  simple  and  could 
let  love  subsist.  The  subject  of  La  Danse,  that  every  lover  is  but  a 
living  mirror,  is  the  negation  of  love.  It  has  not  to  destroy  it  since 
it  does  not  exist.  In  the  two  dramas  love  is  “a  vaudeville  with  the 
ideal  as  prompter.”  Charles  and  Paul  both  kill  themselves  so  that 
the  mirror  may  “keep  their  fair  image”;  but  the  first  dies  as  the  hero  of 
an  ideal  tragedy,  the  second  as  a  dupe  of  love’s  comedy. 

L’Ame  en  folie  brings  these  savage  “ Marivaudages ”  back  to 
humility.  Justin,  a  retired  philosopher,  serves  the  author  as  spokes¬ 
man  to  show  how  moral  anarchy  and  savagery  meet,  to  evoke  the  deer 
and  the  does  apropos  of  two  lovers  busily  engaged  on  the  first 
floor  of  his  house.  There  is  in  this  play  a  harshness  which  contrasts 
with  the  lyricism  of  La  Danse,  an  evident  scorn  for  the  means,  whether 
they  be  material,  like  the  skeleton  utilized  for  the  heart-attack,  or 
psychological,  such  as  the  character  of  Blanche  so  many  of  whose  fea¬ 
tures  are  lifelike  yet  who,  as  a  whole,  appears  unreal. 

La  Comedie  du  genie  crowns  this  spectacle  of  anarchy  staged  by 
Curel  beginning  with  La  Fille  sauvage.  That  play,  in  which  the 
analysis  is  sometimes  so  confidential,  disdains  the  ordinary  theatrical 
precautions.  With  a  mixture  of  eloquence  and  cruel  irony  it  de¬ 
scribes  the  life  of  a  playwright  from  the  awakening  of  creative  impulse 
to  the  supreme  doubts  as  to  his  genius.  To  render  this  synthesis  com¬ 
plete,  Curel  recoils  from  no  improbability;  but  in  the  very  drama 
where  he  seems  most  openly  to  set  the  laws  of  the  theatre  at  defiance, 
he  renders  dramatic  art  the  most  ardent  homage.  He  has  pitilessly 
denounced  the  comedy  of  civilization,  the  comedy  of  love  and  the  com¬ 
edy  of  genius,  but  he  proclaims  only  the  more  strongly  on  this  account 
his  faith  in  glory,  in  “that  tryst  to  the  tenderness  of  the  peoples  given 
on  a  tomb.”  Thus  in  Curel  self-examination  too  takes  the  dramatic 
form.  Perhaps  his  obstinate  effort  will  succeed  in  creating  a  new 
genre  more  flexible  than'  the  conventional  drama,  more  animated  than 
the  abstract  dialogue,  in  which  this  intelligence  eager,  at  the  same 
time,  for  liberty  and  for  discipline,  for  life  and  for  depth,  will  at  length 
find  satisfaction.  It  is  possible  that  Terre  inhumaine  which  had,  in 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  273 

1922—23,  a  triumphal  success,  may  appear,  in  spite  of  its  somewhat 
melodramatic  manner,  a  new  step  in  that  direction. 

This  transmutation  of  ideas  into  living  characters  and  of  ideal  con¬ 
flicts  into  human  dramas  which  renders  Curel’s  works  irreducible  to  a 
series  of  philosophical  dialogues  is  found  again  in  Marie  Leneru. 
The  three  plays  published  by  her  testify  to  the  rarest  courage — that 
of  an  unflinching  gaze  and  of  a  writer  daring  to  say  all  she  has  con¬ 
ceived.  It  is  a  dangerous  quality  for  the  author  whom  it  exposes  to 
every  misconstruction.  Les  Affranchis  was  accused  of  Nietzscheism 
and  of  anti-Nietzscheism.  It  has  been  claimed  that,  in  Le  Re- 
doutable,  she  had  proposed  an  apology  for  treason.  The  effort  to  see 
clearly  which  inspired  La  Paix  has  been  taxed  with  inconsiderate  pessi¬ 
mism.  The  praise  and  the  blame  which  greeted  her  present,  in  another 
form,  the  fundamental  problem  of  her  work — the  observation  of  a 
strange  discord  between  the  thoughts  and  the  actions  of  our  contempo¬ 
raries.  The  end  of  Les  Affranchis :  “Are  we  heroes  or  cowards?” 
agrees  with  that  of  Le  Redout  able :  “There  are  no  monsters,  only 
monstrous  acts.”  This  conception  of  a  conflict  between  the  intelligence 
and  the  offensive  returns  of  instinct  necessitates  exceptional  characters. 
The  atmosphere  of  Les  Affranchis  quickly  becomes  unbreathable  for  an 
average  creature  like  Mile.  Duret  who  obeys  a  physical  need  as  much 
as  her  master’s  lesson  in  giving  herself  to  a  young  student.  The  real 
drama  is  an  ascetic  combat  between  Philippe,  Helene  and  the  ab¬ 
bess  who  evolve  on  a  ground  of  fraternal  abstractions.  Le  Redout- 
able  is  a  failure,  in  spite  of  affecting  scenes,  because  the  heroes 
have  not  the  intellectual  strength  which  would  give  the  conflict 
what  the  author  claimed  to  derive  from  it.  Too  many  natural  mo¬ 
tives  explain  the  treason  at  Malta,  too  many  improbabilities  are  re¬ 
quired  to  explain  and  justify  the  Admiral’s  sudden  changes.  The 
menace,  in  a  single  act,  of  the  two  contrary  denouements,  condemnation 
and  acquittal,  seems  an  artifice  to  exhaust  Laurence’s  psychology. 
Marie  Leneru’s  attempt  deserved  all  our  respect.  It  showed  above  all 
how  restrained  is  the  domain  of  the  drama  of  abstract  ideas  the  mo¬ 
ment  the  playwright  leaves  the  great  symbolical  crises  in  which  Curel 
had  maintained  it.  As  to  Marie  Leneru’s  exceptional  situation,  this 
appears  in  all  its  pitiful  grandeur  in  the  Journal  of  which  the  Bar- 
resian  Saint-Just  forms  a  chapter.  “This  makeshift  for  a  will,  to 
enable  mj^self  to  die  with  less  anger,”  shows  through  what  sufferings, 
what  boredom,  what  “coma  of  awaiting”  her  mind  imposed  upon  her 
body  the  soaring  energy  she  demanded  of  the  Revolutionary  hero. 
Better  than  in  any  of  her  plays  the  splendour  of  the  pathos  of  ideas 


274  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

reveals  itself  in  this  confession  of  a  woman  eager  for  everything  in 
life  and  forced  to  stiffen  herself  proudly  in  her  solitude :  “In  the  long- 
run  it  makes  one  terribly  proud  to  be  able  to  do  without  one’s 
fellow-men !” 

The  appeal  of  pride  is  precisely  the  solicitation  Edouard  Schneider 
has  wished  to  reject.  As  early  as  Raisons  du  Coeur  he  refused  to 
accept  “a  mandarin’s  title”  and  glorified  mystic  intuition,  loosening 
the  Catholic  tie  to  owe  exclusive  allegiance  thereafter  to  the  eternal 
Church.  Always  in  quest  of  a  religious  peace — which  he  was  able  to 
find  momentarily  only  in  the  fresh  evocation  of  Heures  benedictines — 
his  plays  and  his  novels  mark  a  loyal  evolution.  Thence  their  re¬ 
sponse  to  each  other.  At  the  end  of  the  drama  Les  Mages  where  the 
Catholicism  which  stands  for  order  and  apostolic  Catholicism  are  con¬ 
fronted,  the  abbe  who  represents  “the  tyranny  of  love”  abdicated ; 
but  his  defeat  was  given  as  “the  finest  of  victories.”  The  novel 
L’lmmaculee  rejected  this  tyranny,  showing  that,  according  to  a  sen¬ 
tence  in  Ariane  ma  sceur,  “more  than  one  mystic  glorified  by  the 
Church  vowed  to  the  service  of  God  the  measured  use  of  his  human 
charms.”  The  here  of  Ariane  plunges  into  a  fierce  sensuality  until 
the  day  when  his  wife’s  illness  reveals  to  him  “the  profound  reality  of 
love  and  the  notion  of  the  human  person” ;  but  once  this  woman  is 
dead,  nothing  is  left  him,  deprived  of  the  bitter  consolation  of  be¬ 
lieving  himself  “responsible,”  other  than  revolt  against  God.  Le  Dieu 
d’Argile,  played  in  1921,  offers,  after  this  “mysticism  of  the  flesh,” 
a  sort  of  counter -Enemy  of  the  People  where  the  impassioned  claim  to 
the  rights  of  the  heart  breaks  the  proud  philosophy.  This  assertion 
of  reasons  superior  to  reason  constitutes  the  unity  of  Schneider’s 
work. 

It  leaves  it  also  an  aspect,  if  not  dogmatic  (for  he  denies  concluding 
like  an  intellectualist)  at  least  a  little  theoretical.  The  first  two  acts 
of  Le  Dieu  d’Argile  remain  very  cold  and  his  Elizabeth  is  somewhat 
symbolical.  In  this  play,  in  fact,  just  as  implicitly  in  Ariane  and 
quite  explicitly  in  Les  Mages  and  L’lmmaculee  (where  the  whole  ac¬ 
tion  consists  in  transferring  this  title  from  a  religious  to  a  lay  hero¬ 
ine),  the  drama  is  always  the  drama  of  the  disciple,  of  a  passive  being; 
and  there  is  at  times  in  Schneider’s  style  a  certain  softness  which  har¬ 
monizes  with  the  indecision  of  his  typical  characters.  Perhaps  in  his 
work  the  conflicts  are  more  living  than  the  beings.  He  brings  to  their 
painting,  in  any  event,  a  scrupulous  honesty,  an  elevation  of  thought 
which  permits, him  to  treat  the  vastest  subjects  and,  even  where  he  does 
not  carry  conviction,  always  to  merit  the  respect  due  to  noble 
attempts. 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  275 

The  psychological  drama  has  sought  elsewhere  the  air  it  lacked. 
Edmund  See  has  continued  Porto-Riche.  His  theatrical  works,  L’ln- 
discret.  La  Brebis,  Les  Miettes,  show  the  same  delicate  and  sober 
analytical  talent  which  inspires  his  novel,  Un  cousin  d’ Alsace,  or  that 
poetical  novel,  Notre  Amour,  which  demands  of  verse  merely  its  ductile 
quality  and,  in  more  than  one  place,  recalls  the  manner  of  Bonheur 
manque.  For  the  psychological  drama  always  keeps  close  to  the  novel 
whose  freedom  it  even  seems  often  to  envy.  Louis  Artus,  after  Coewr  de 
Movneau,  abandoned  the  theatre  and  appealed  to  the  novel  to  exhibit, 
in  La  Maison  du  Fou,  five  poignant  cases  of  Ambrosian  mysticism — to 
invite  us,  in  La  Maison  du  Sage,  to  partake  his  “harsh  joy”  at  the 
downfall  of  the  dwelling  of  a  false  sage  whose  mediocrity  unfortunately 
transforms  this  drama  of  influence  which  might  have  given  a  counter- 
lmmoraliste  into  a  tale  of  Manichaean  obsession — to  mingle  in  Le  Vin 
de  ta  Vigne  “the  realities  of  St.  Leonard’s  chronicles  and  the  prophetic 
divination  of  the  drunken  monk  who  dictated  to  me.”  Le  Quatuor  en 
fa  diese  by  Gabriel  Marcel,  a  philosopher  according  to  whom  the  life 
of  the  conscience  alone  deserves  the  name  of  life,  and  Le  Mcutre  de  son 
coeur  by  Paul  Raynal  have  shown  that  the  Porte-Riche  tradition  is 
not  extinct.  From  so  many  efforts  will  perhaps  emerge  the  original 
formula  capable  of  fitting  the  new  problems  of  the  heart  into  a 
Racinian  frame. 

H.  R.  Lenormand’s  dramas  inaugurate  an  interesting  effort  to  reno¬ 
vate  the  psychological  theatre  under  the  influence  of  the  Russian  novel¬ 
ists  and  of  the  Grand  Guignol.  Terres  chaudes  plays  brutally  upon 
the  strings  of  terror  and  pity  in  an  exotic  setting,  but  also  raises  the 
problem  of  the  just  and  the  unjust  which  transcends  the  colonial  inci¬ 
dent  just  as  the  anguish  of  Simoun  transcends  the  purely  atmospheric 
drama.  Les  Possedes  forms,  if  one  wishes,  a  pathological  gallery. 
It  renews,  with  a  singular  vigour,  the  theme  of  the  artist  and  society 
and  makes  this  “sacred  egotism”  pay  its  penalty.  Ibsen  has  been 
evoked  in  connection  with  Poussiere,  Dostoievsky  in  connection  with 
Les  Rates.  Henry  Lenormand  differs  from  the  first  through  a  harsh 
clearness,  from  the  second  through  an  incisive  pessimism.  He 
likes  to  cut  his  dramas  up  into  small  pictures  in  which  every  stroke 
counts.  This  method  is  very  well  fitted  for  the  lamentable  theatrical 
road-company  described  in  Les  Rates.  He  has  applied  it  again  in 
that  drama,  Le  temps  est  un  songe,  the  title  of  which  reminds  us  that 
the  hallucinated  frenzy  of  the  action  here  has,  as  its  point  of  departure, 
a  philosophical  idea  inordinately  expanded  by  a  halo  of  reveries,  “for 
everything  is  phantoms  and  reflection  of  phantoms.”  In  such  plays 
Lenormand  has  proved  his  originality ;  but  they  all  keep  an  air  of  im- 


276  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

perious  tours  de  force  and  those  who  have  confidence  in  his  great 
dramatic  talent  await  the  moment  when  this  will,  so  well-tempered,  shall 
undergo  the  ordeal  of  human  pity,  really  devoting  itself  to  the  new 
ideas  which  Le  Mangeur  de  reves  still  confines  itself  too  exclusively  to 
employing  for  effect. 

2.  THE  PLAY 

The  “play”  was  the  fashionable  form  for  the  first  fifteen  years  of  the 
twentieth  century.  Theoretically,  the  merit  of  this  form,  accessible 
equally  to  comic  and  to  tragic  inspiration,  is  its  flexibility  in  rendering 
all  life  impartially.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  this  vague  denomination  has 
above  all  permitted  the  reconciliation  of  the  most  divers  influences — 
Dumas’  moralizing  satire,  Augier’s  bourgeois  good  sense,  Becque’s 
ferocity,  Sardou’s  clever  craftsmanship. 

Maurice  Donnay  has  pursued  his  brilliant  career  and  tackled  the 
vastest  subjects.  U Autre  Danger  tells  the  story  of  a  human  conflict. 
Le  Retour  de  Jerusalem  studies  the  Jewish  problem  in  contemporary 
society.  In  collaboration  with  Lucien  Descaves,  the  energetic  novelist 
of  Sous-offs,  he  has  also  written,  in  addition  to  La  Clairiere,  that 
Oiseaux  de  Passage  in  which  a  racial  conflict  is  considered.  Why  do 
these  plays,  ardently  discussed  on  their  appearance,  seem  to  us,  in 
spite  of  their  unquestionable  loyalty,  to  have  become  so  cold?  Don- 
nay’s  proverbial  nonchalance,  his  abuse  of  episodical  characters,  do 
not  prevent  the  scenes  between  Claire  and  Freydieres,  between  Judith 
and  her  lover,  between  Vera  and  her  fiance,  being  solidly  constructed. 
In  the  dialogues  where  a  mother  and  her  daughter  dispute  the  heart  of 
the  same  man,  where  love  is  wrecked  on  the  revelation  of  the  profound 
differences  between  a  Jewess  and  an  Aryan,  between  a  young  French 
bourgeois  and  a  Russian  Nihilist,  Donnay  is  capable  of  sacrificing  the 
easy  witticisms  which  made  the  success  of  his  plays  and  give  them 
to-day  their  antiquated  air;  but,  even  in  these  passages,  emotion  is  a 
postulate  rather  than  a  reality.  Led  by  a  skilful  hand  to  the  threshold 
of  greatness,  we  do  not  cross  it.  Les  Eclaireuses  remains  a  game  as 
much  as  Le  Menage  de  Moliere. 

Henri  Lavedan,  who  was  occasionally  tedious  in  the  light  vein  and 
who  is  uniformly  so  in  the  moral  vein,  seemed  twice  to  emerge  from  this 
mediocrity.  Played  by  A.  Le  Baroy  who  literally  incarnated  his 
role,  Le  Marquis  de  Priola,  the  portrait  of  a  modern  Don  Juan,  pro¬ 
duced  a  considerable  theatrical,  if  not  psychological,  effect.  Le  Duel, 
cleverly  utilizing  a  contemporary  incident,  gave  almost  the  impression 
of  a  piece  d’idees.  Lavedan  profited  by  this  indulgence  and  did  not 
risk  his  reputation  again  in  such  dangerous  essays. 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  277 

Alfred  Capus  enjoyed  a  great  reputation  as  a  wit — French  declare 
some,  Parisian  others,  boulevardier  whisper  a  few.  His  Au  Jour  le 
jour,  in  Le  Figaro,  his  novels,  of  which  Qui  perd  gagne  may  be  noted, 
and  his  plays,  the  best  examples  of  which  are  La  Veine  and  Notre 
J eunesse,  have  popularized  his  philosophy  which  was  the  mocking  opti¬ 
mism  of  an  unindulgent  observer,  persuaded  that  “everything  comes  out 
right.”  His  comedies  were  dialogues  on  the  human  surface.  His 
wisdom  rehabilitated  sound  sense  in  ingenious  sallies  and  whenever  he 
was  forced  into  his  last  trenches,  he  declared  our  epoch  to  be  “cordial 
and  habitable.”  When  he  emerged  from  this  temperate  zone,  he  suc¬ 
ceeded  better  in  such  fantasies  as  Brignol  et  sa  Fille  or  La  Petite  Fonc- 
tionnaire  than  in  the  drama  L’Aventurier.  The  charm  of  his  conversa¬ 
tion  kept  alive  the  fiction  that  he  was  a  theatrical  author.  Irony 
changed  camps  the  day  when  Alfred  Capus  believed  it  his  duty  to  take 
the  world  and  himself  seriously. 

Before  becoming  one  of  the  most  renowned  playwrights  of  his  epoch, 
Henry  Bataille  had  published  a  volume  of  verse,  Le  Beau  Voyage. 

Et  vienne  ce  beau  soir  que  j’evoque  a  mon  gre, 

Ou  nous  caresserons  nos  levres  endormies  .  .  . 

Ce  soir-la,  ce  soir-ld,  je  saurai  bien  des  choses  .  .  . 

Je  ne  te  plaindrai  plus  de  n’amoir  pas  de  roses  .  .  , 

Je  comprendrai  la  joie  du  phalene  qui  meurt  .  .  , 

Alors  nous  eteindrons  la  lampe  avec  douceur  .  .  . 

(L’ Adieu.) 

This  end  of  a  poem  is  as  it  were  a  concentrated  essence  of  Bataille: 
easy  and  perhaps  spontaneous  emotion,  lack  of  precision  in  the  thought, 
inexactitude  in  the  expression,  unbearable  embellishment  of  every  real¬ 
ity  by  an  aestheticism  the  pretensions  of  which  to  depth  ill  dissimulate 
its  emptiness.  Had  this  religion  of  false  art  asserted  itself  only  in  the 
tedious  rhapsodies  of  Le  Phalene  or  the  ridiculous  declamations  of  La 
Quadrature  de  Vamour — 

Cet  egorgeur  qui  tint  cent  peuples  dans  sa  poigne 
Et  s’acharna  sur  tous  les  soleils  tour  a  tour, 

J’atteste  qu’il  avait  les  mains  moites  d’amour — 

two  unsuccessful  books  might  be  neglected.  Unfortunately  their  one 
fault  is  to  reveal  more  sincerely  the  weakness  of  a  work  in  which  Ba¬ 
taille  has  held  the  mirror  up,  not  to  nature,  but  to  theatricalism.  The 
contrast  is  truly  comic  between  his  prefaces  and  the  plays  following 
them.  To  take  his  word  for  it,  he  had  been  shocking  the  public,  strug¬ 
gling  for  the  advent  of  an  “exact  lyricism.”  By  “exact  lyricism” 


278  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

should  be  understood  that  the  action  passes  in  settings  which  flatter 
every  form  of  snobbishness — Parisian  apartments  furnished  by  fash¬ 
ionable  dealers,  department-store  Algeria,  tourist  Sicily,  a  comic-opera 
Brittany.  The  characters  match  the  cushions  and  hangings,  bringing 
with  them,  in  La  Femme  nue,  Les  Flambeau x  and  Le  Phalene,  a  sicken¬ 
ing  odour  of  the  last  society  scandals,  offering  the  spectators  of  Le 
Scandale  an  echo  of  that  Bernstein  brutality  which  they  had  appeared 
to  love,  presenting  in  Les  Flambeaux  an  image  of  science  and  philoso¬ 
phy  exactly  on  the  level  of  this  audience  and  leaving  it,  on  emerging 
from  that  incredible  melodrama,  the  illusion  of  having  spent  some  three 
hours  in  the  confidence  of  Henri  Poincare.  As  soon  as  they  touch  on 
ideas  these  heroes  speak  the  language  of  their  creator.  Thence  the 
verbiage  of  La  Vierge  folle  and  of  Les  Sasurs  d'amour,  spoiling  the 
human  interest  of  the  drama  of  Grace  de  Plassans’  pride,  inspiring  the 
comic  symbolism  of  Thyra  de  Marliew.  With  Bataille  Romanticism  is 
regenerated  by  rascality — witness  the  extravagant  comedy  in  which 
L’Enfant  de  V amour  retrieves  an  unfaithful  lover  for  his  mother.  The 
dramatist  deigns  to  take  an  interest  in  his  heroines  only  when  they  have 
reached  a  certain  degree  of  physical  or  moral  decadence.  To  render 
the  drama  of  Maman  Colibri  possible,  Irene  must  have  complicated  her 
passion  with  a  perverse  maternal  sentiment  and  her  son  have  kissed 
her  shoulder  like  a  lover. 

Lyricism  of  this  exactitude  will  consist  in  the  reading  of  a  farewell 
letter  to  the  sound  of  one  of  Chopin’s  nocturnes  which  the  author, 
ashamed  of  so  much  artificiality,  declares  to  be  “stereotyped  and  pas¬ 
sionate”  in  his  stage  directions  but  the  performance  of  which  leaves 
him  all  the  benefit  in  the  case  of  sensitive  souls.  It  is  moreover  just  to 
recognize  that  such  a  duplicity  is  not  common  with  him.  Generally  a 
sort  of  loyalty  impels  him  to  go  to  the  limit  of  bad  taste.  In  the 
first  version  of  Poliche,  a  touchingly  simple  denouement  won  forgive¬ 
ness  for  the  monotonous  depiction  of  one  of  those  equivocal  circles 
which  Bataille  deems  representative.  More  cruel  for  himself  than  any 
of  his  critics  had  ever  been,  he  felt  obliged  to  touch  up  this  last  act  in 
order  to  introduce  a  scene  which  seemed  to  him  daring.  For  there  is 
no  writer  who  has  oftener  recalled  the  need  for  audacity  and  who  has 
so  constantly  dodged  the  most  necessary  audacity,  the  truth,  of  which 
Thyra’s  nakedness  is,  alas,  but  a  caricature. 

Henry  Bernstein  has  attempted  various  forms:  ironical  comedy  in 
Le  Detour,  character  study  in  Le  Secret  where  a  malicious  maniac  de¬ 
stroys  the  happiness  of  those  about  her,  the  ample  synthesis  of  Israel 
rather  quickly  exhausted ;  but  his  reputation  is  based  upon  that  series 
of  frenzied  dramas,  La  Rafale,  Le  Voleur,  Samson,  L’Assaut,  which 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  279 

gave  a  powerful  shock  to  the  nerves  of  the  charmed  public.  The  sub¬ 
jects  he  treated  permitted  every  paroxysm:  a  politician  brought  to 
bay  by  the  pack  of  his  enemies,  a  mistress  obliged  to  sell  herself  in 
order  to  pay  the  gambling  debts  of  her  paramour,  a  financier  reduced  to 
compassing  his  own  ruin  in  order  to  drag  his  wife’s  lover  down  with  him. 
All  this  rabble  of  the  criminal  courts  danced  a  romantic  round  about 
the  golden  calf.  Grave  critics  treated  these  bugbears  for  big  children 
as  supermen  and  Bernstein  has  achieved  the  success  merited  by  his 
skilful  dosing  of  barbarism  and  literature. 

There  remain  to  be  named,  for  the  sake  of  completeness,  the  wnteis 
who,  without  any  ambition  to  renovate  dramatic  art,  have  followed 
their  career  in  the  theatre  as  they  would  have  pursued  any  other  liberal 
profession.  Abel  Hermant,  author  of  Chaine  anglaise,  quickly  under¬ 
stood  that  Souvenirs  du  vicomte  de  Courpiere  was  much  better  than 
its  theatrical  adaptation  and  returned  to  the  libertine  novel  in  which 
he  excels.  Francis  de  Croisset,  in  Le  Cceur  dispose  and  Cherubin,  has 
made  himself  the  vulgarizer  of  Musset  with  a  constancy  which  involves 
the  abnegation  of  all  originality.  Romain  Coolus  has  provoked  smiles 
with  Petite  Peste  and  paints  the  grapple  of  Cceur  a  Cceur  with  the  same 
good  grace.  In  the  form  of  romantic  comedy — from  Le  Bonheur  sous 
la  main  to  LTdee  de  Franpoise — Paul  Gavault  remained  uniformly 
amiable.  Gustave  Guiches,  a  novelist  of  provincial  life  in  Celeste 
Prudhomat,  brought  to  the  Comedie  Franchise,  in  Chacun  sa  vie,  the 
vision  of  the  modern  realities  compatible  with  the  tradition  of  a  sub¬ 
sidized  theatre.  The  same  praise  applies  to  Les  Marionnettes  by 
Pierre  Wolf  who,  before  entering  this  temple,  was  one  of  the  most  bril¬ 
liant  authors  of  the  Boulevard  and  disputed  with  the  witty  Pierre 
Yeber  the  privilege  of  stimulating  slack  digestions  by  means  of  that 
pitiable  drama  of  pity  of  which  Le  Lys  and  Le  Ruisseau  offer  excellent 
examples.  Finally,  since  we  are  drawing  up  a  list  of  caterers,  we  shall 
be  pardoned  for  naming  Lucien  Nepoty  who  believed  himself  author¬ 
ized,  by  the  success  of  his  melodramatic  Petits,  to  collaborate  with  the 
Shakespeare  of  The  Merchant  of  Venice;  Henri  Kistemaeckers  who, 
from  L’Instinct  to  UOccident,  remained  a  very  skilful  manufacturer 
and  Jacques  Richepin  of  whom  literary  history  will  perhaps  remember 
the  interpreters. 

Albert  Guinon’s  theories  elicited  an  approving  article  from  Pierre 
Gilbert.  Decadence  which  studies  the  same  problem  as  Le  Retour  de 
Jerusalem,  Son  Pere  and  Le  Bonheur  does  not  mark  a  very  perceptible 
advance  on  Henri  Becque’s  work;  but  “Becque’s  successor”  is  a  flatter¬ 
ing  title  which  was  given  also  to  Fernand  Vanderem  in  connection  with 
Cher  Maitre,  the  diversion  of  a  critic  habitually  too  perspicacious  to 


280  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

be  blinded  in  his  own  case.  The  same  quality  may  be  wished  J ean  Sar- 
ment  whose  Couronne  de  carton  had  moved,  thanks  to  awkwardnesses 
which  seemed  guarantees  of  sincerity.  His  second  play,  Le  Pecheur 
d’ombres,  showed  him  to  possess  a  genius  for  “fake”  scarcely  inferior 
to  Henri  Bataille’s.  The  decadence  of  German  music  after  Wagner 
has  never  been  better  revealed  than  in  the  infallible  orchestral  acro¬ 
batics  of  Richard  Strauss. 

3.  SOCIAL  SATIRE 

There  are  few  writers  as  tiresome  and  as  diverting  as  Octave  Mir- 
beau — tiresome  to  read,  but  so  diverting  on  reflection!  Mirbeau’s 
work  accomplishes  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  miracle  of  clothing  with  the 
most  outworn  Romantic  ornaments  a  naturalistic  philosophy  the  medi¬ 
tations  of  which  invariably  end  in  platitude.  Beginning  with  Sebas- 
tien  Roch,  dedicated  to  Edmond  de  Goncourt,  he  extolled  “the  sublime 
beauty  of  the  ugly.”  Le  Jardin  des  supplices,  inspired  by  this 
thought,  that  “Love  and  Death  are  identical,”  pretends  to  imitate,  in 
a  garden  borrowed  from  the  Paradon,  the  art  of  the  Chinese  executioner 
who  “extracts  from  the  human  flesh  all  its  prodigies  of  suffering.”  Le 
Journal  d’une  femme  de  chambre  expresses  “the  sadness  and  the  comedy 
of  being  a  man — a  sadness  which  makes  noble  souls  laugh,  comedy  which 
makes  them  weep.”  Les  21  Jours  d’un  neurasthenique  proves  that 
“men  are  everywhere  the  same”  and  Dingo  sings  the  praises  of  a  dog 
which,  in  spite  of  some  vices  borrowed  from  man,  has  kept  its  precious 
canine  superiority.  Everything  in  Mirbeau  is  enormous,  and  first  of 
all  the  puerility.  Generous,  ever  ready  to  write  the  article  or  the 
preface  which  would  launch  some  unknown  genius,  which  would  de¬ 
nounce  some  social  injustice,  his  enthusiasm  was  often  mistaken.  In 
his  books,  monotonous  examples  of  the  novel  of  odds  and  ends,  he  re¬ 
lieves  himself  of  a  scorn  for  modern  society  which  would  be  scathing 
could  it  be  taken  quite  seriously.  They  are  receptacles  into  which  he 
casts  pell-mell  his  rancours  as  an  anti-clerical,  as  a  Dreyfusist  and  as 
a  pamphleteer.  His  love  of  opposition  carries  him,  in  La  628-E8, 
to  the  point  of  a  eulogy  of  Germany  which  the  Prussian  “squirearchy” 
must  have  relished.  The  results  he  obtains  have  always  this  para¬ 
doxical  character.  If  he  gives  well-known  names  to  his  heroes,  no  one 
accepts  these  caricatures.  If  he  portrays  a  Pere  Roch  or  an  Abbe 
Jules,  the  author’s  truculence  alone  is  appreciated.  If  he  talks  about 
himself,  the  reader  yawns.  He  dreams  of  writing  “pages  of  murder 
and  blood,”  pfiges  which  will  exhale  “a  strong  stench  of  rottenness,” 
and  succeeds  in  attracting  only  the  amateurs  of  pure  pornography. 
He  goes  lion-hunting  and  brings  back  merely  a  little  vermin.  Excel- 


The  contemporary  drama  m 

lent  when  he  narrates,  in  his  natural  voice,  some  rough  Breton  buf¬ 
foonery,  he  usually  wearies  by  the  outbursts  of  a  uniform  violence. 
Huysmans  had  embalmed  dead  Naturalism  in  his  decadent  style. 
Mirbeau  rejects  this  artifice  and  gives  back  the  corpse  its  odour. 

Yet  this  man  has  composed  the  one  play  of  our  epoch  which  stands 
comparison  with  Becque’s.  Perhaps  he  sought  in  the  theatrical  form 
an  opportunity  to  discipline  his  impetuosity.  Les  Mauvais  Bergers 
reveals  a  schematic  Mirbeau  who  imagines  a  revolutionary  workman, 
a  wavering  employer  and  a  young  idealistic  bourgeois  to  pit  them 
against  each  other  in  a  brutal,  mystic  strike.  Le  Foyer,  on  the  con¬ 
trary,  in  spite  of  Thadee  Natanson’s  collaboration,  is  written  in  the 
same  ink  as  his  novels.  This  virulent,  painful  caricature  which  in 
vain  caused  a  sensation,  shows  above  all  his  inability  to  confine  his 
fierce  and  infantile  misanthropy  in  a  living  action.  To  compare  Ar- 
mand  Biron  with  Isidore  Lechat  is  useful  only  to  emphasize  the  extra¬ 
ordinary  relief  of  Les  Affaires  sont  les  affaires. 

This  comedy  offers  a  fine  artistic  situation.  Its  exposition  is  ad¬ 
mirable.  Two  scenes  suffice  to  evoke  the  setting  in  which  the  action 
is  to  take  place  and  to  paint  soberly  two  characters  one  of  whom, 
by  his  revolt,  will  provoke  the  crisis.  Isidore  Lechat  enters.  Mir- 
beau’s  habitual  excess  threatens  to  compromise  this  beginning.  In 
his  protagonist  he  has  accumulated  everything  he  detests  in  contempo¬ 
rary  society :  bourgeois  cruelty,  garrulous  egotism,  belief  in  material 
facts,  scorn  for  artistic  truth,  opportunist  socialism;  but  the  necessity 
for  rendering  this  symbolical  character  convincing  on  the  stage  has 
compelled  Mirbeau  to  depict  the  business  man  in  full  strife.  There  he 
is  great.  The  interview  with  the  engineers  reveals  his  power  and,  in 
the  principal  scene  with  the  Marquis,  he  achieves  quite  naturally  a 
lyric  breadth  which  would  not  be  unworthy  of  Toussaint  Tourelure. 
The  author  conducts  his  drama  with  implacable  determination  towards 
the  double  catastrophe.  His  impenitent  romanticism  unleashes  the 
fatalities  of  modern  life.  Of  all  the  images  of  fright  he  so  frantically 
sought  none  surpasses  the  tragic  final  scene  in  which  Isidore  Lechat, 
whose  daughter  has  just  run  away  and  his  son  been  killed,  foils  the  two 
partners  who  wanted  to  take  advantage  of  a  father’s  grief  to  outdo  the 
business  man  of  whom  Mirbeau  has  drawn  this  grandiose  and  enduring 
portrait. 

Emile  Fabre’s  titles  are  a  program:  U Argent,  La  Vie  publique, 
Les  Ventres  dores,  La  Maison  d’argile,  Les  Vainqueurs,  Les  Sauterelles. 
He  describes  the  names  and  customs  of  financiers  and  politicians  in 
France  and  in  the  colonies  in  carefully  documented,  solidly  constructed 
plays  whose  collective  aim  is  to  give  a  Balzac-like  picture  of  public  life 


282  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

in  our  epoch.  It  is,  however,  almost  inevitable  that  a  play  which 
touches  on  a  social  problem  of  the  present  moment  will  awake  its  pas¬ 
sions  and  be  taken  for  a  satire  or  an  apology.  Thus  it  is  that  the 
two  modern  tragedies  by  P’aul-Hyacinthe  Loyson,  Les  Ames  ennemies 
and  L’Apotre,  were  discussed  contradictorily  with  L’Otage  by  Gabriel 
Trarieux  and  Le  Tribun  by  Paul  Bourget.  Whence  are  explained  the 
little  tempests  raised  by  Georges  Bourdon  with  Les  Chaines  and 
Charles  Mere  with  La  Captive. 

Social  satire,  too,  has  provided  Saint-Georges  de  Bouhelier  with  the 
inspiration  for  the  only  one  of  his  works  which  is  not  unbearable,  Le 
Carnaval  des  enfants.  Undoubtedly,  for  those  who  know  the  entire 
work  of  the  prophet  of  Naturism,  the  blending  of  vulgarity  and  sym¬ 
bolism  in  Le  Carnaval  recalls  the  childish  conception  of  La  Tragedie 
royale  and  heralds  the  platitudes  of  La  Vie  d’une  femme.  At  least  we 
escape  here  the  infatuated  prattle  which,  on  leaving  L’Histoire  de 
Lucie  and  Des  Passions  de  V amour,  makes  us  reread  La  Vie  de  Mari¬ 
anne,  Pascal  and  Maeterlinck  parodied  by  Bouhelier  with  naive  uncon¬ 
sciousness.  Then  too  in  Le  Carnaval,  Christ  does  not  appear — that 
Christ  to  whom  La  Romance  de  Vhomme  likens  Rousseau: 

0  reveur!  A  I’egal  du  doux  fils  de  Marie 
Ta  parabole  est  belle  .  .  . 

and  whose  passion  the  Olympian  (Edipc  transfers  to  the  king  of  Thebes 
— that  Christ  who  fills  with  tedium  a  tragedy  the  preface  of  which 
is  a  document.  In  it  Bouhelier  repudiates  the  extremities  to  which 
his  “premises”  might  have  led  him  and  adds :  “I  have  purposely 
chastened  the  speech  of  my  Christ.”  Por  this  art  which  seeks  aspira¬ 
tions  and  shuns  ideas  has  a  sure  instinct  for  impropriety.  His  bad 
taste  is  infallible  whether  he  celebrates  pell-mell,  among  the  poetes 
damnes,  Verlaine,  Rimbaud  and  Mendes,  or  whether,  with  the  facility  of 
a  Rostand,  he  parades  the  Baudelaireanism  of  a  disciple  of  Zola. 
Reading  proves  that  Le  Carnaval  does  not  differ  widely  from  Bouhe- 
lier’s  other  works ;  but  on  the  stage,  the  pair  'of  aunts  and  a  dramatic 
scene  between  the  heroine  and  her  daughter  assure  the  play  a  success 
somewhat  comparable  to  that  of  Charpentier’s  Louise. 

4.  COMEDY 

Tristan  Bernard  cannot  reproach  his  epoch  with  having  underrated 
him.  Certairucritics  have  gone  so  far  as  to  compare  him  to  Courte- 
line — an  interesting  rapprochement  if  it  leads  to  recognition  of  the 
fact  that  Courteline  starts  from  an  observation  and  Tristan  Bernard 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  283 

from  a  situation.  His  comedy  often  affects  a  mechanical  precision. 
An  interpreter  ignorant  of  every  foreign  language,  a  thief  seized  with 
a  Cornelian  scruple,  servants  who  give  orders  to  their  masters — these 
reversals  of  the  usual  order  provide  the  subjects  for  L’ Anglais  tel  qu'on 
le  parle,  Daisy  and  On  nait  esclave  (in  collaboration  with  Jean  Schlum- 
berger).  The  silhouettes  sketched  by  Tristan  Bernard  are  delightful. 
Monsieur  Codomat  and  Triplepatte  (in  collaboration  with  Andre  God- 
ferneaux)  prove  him  not  less  successful  in  more  serious  character  study. 
To  analysis  he  prefers  the  shafts  of  a  witty  good  humour  which  makes 
the  charm  of  Le  Danseur  inconnu  and  Le  Petit  Cafe.  His  clever  non¬ 
chalance  permits  him,  at  need,  to  rise  to  the  dramatic  level  without 
appearing  ridiculous.  He  excels  in  awakening  and  maintaining  a  com¬ 
placent  confidence  in  his  hearers,  and  his  age  has  given  him  credit  for 
so  much  wit  he  will  probably  remain  insolvent  before  posterity. 

It  is  customary,  when  seeking  ancestors  for  Robert  de  Flers  and 
Gaston  Armand  de  Caillavet,  to  evoke  Meilhac  and  Halevy.  Was  it  to 
accentuate  this  resemblance  that,  in  Primerose,  they  intended  to  write 
their  Abbe  Constantin?  Doubtless  their  work,  from  Chonchette  to 
Le  Bois  sacre,  is  a  picture  of  the  Third  Republic,  recalling,  by  its 
caricatural  turn,  the  picture  of  the  Second  Empire  left  us  by  their 
predecessors  in  the  field  of  satiric  wit ;  but  they  have  not  received  the 
whole  Meilhac-Halevy  legacy,  leaving  Lemaitre  and  Donnay  the  task 
of  academicizing  La  Belle  Helene  in  Mariage  de  Telemaque.  Their 
excess  was  always  cleverly  tempered,  as  for  instance  that  Habit  vert 
in  which,  while  mocking  the  Academy  of  1890,  they  subtly  presented 
their  candidacy  for  that  of  1912.  Their  most  accomplished  work  is 
Le  Roi  in  which  their  easy  verve,  associated  with  the  caustic  harshness 
of  Emmanuel  Arene,  sacrificed  less  to  easy  brio.  In  this  play  which 
has  alternately  Beaumarchais’  mordancy  and  the  unconstraint  of  an 
annual  revue,  they  defined,  with  an  elegant  good  grace,  the  limits 
separating  indignation  and  amusement. 

Flers’  and  Cavaillet’s  charm  was  this  reserve  maintained  by  them 
even  in  the  sentimentality  of  U  Amour  veille.  Sacha  Guitry  under¬ 
stood  there  was  room  for  a  comedy  of  indiscretion  in  which  the  plot 
is  merely  an  excuse  for  exhibiting  the  actor.  His  work  falls  into  two 
periods.  During  the  former,  in  Le  Veilleur  de  nuit  and  La  Prise  de 
berg-op-zoom. ,  he  staged  Sacha  Guitry,  with  his  nonchalant  air,  his 
amusing  sallies,  his  faith  in  universal  weakness.  During  the  second, 
with  Pasteur  and  Berenger,  he  staged  Lucien  Guitry  and  the  desire 
natural  to  every  great  comedian  to  incarnate  men  of  great  disinter¬ 
estedness  or  rascality.  The  result  was  to  disguise  Sacha  Guitry  as  a 
philosopher  and  Lucien  Guitry  as  a  kind  of  Machiavellian  Talleyrand. 


284  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

From  these  two  theses  Sacha  Guitry,  in  Mon  Pere  avait  raison,  derived 
the  synthesis.  He  had  been  accused  of  monstrous  egotism  in  the  man¬ 
ner  of  Montaigne.  He  has  victoriously  demonstrated  that  he  pos¬ 
sessed  a  highly  developed  and  brand-new  family  feeling. 

Was  comedy  then  reduced  to  this  dilemma:  either  an  economic  comedy 
in  which  action  is  replaced  by  verbal  wit  or  else  the  vaudeville  in  which 
Alexandre  Bisson  and  Georges  Feydeau,  author  of  Le  Controleur  des 
wagons-lits  and  of  On  purge  bebe  are  past-masters  and  have  displayed 
a  broad  humour  superior  to  more  pretentious  efforts?  All  those  who 
believed  in  the  vivifying  virtues  of  farce  heartily  applauded  Le  Cocu 
magnifique  by  Fernand  Crommelynck,  a  play  whose  merit  was  not 
merely  the  evocation  of  a  milieu.  F.  Fourson  and  F.  Wickeler  had 
proved  that  the  Belgium  of  Le  Mariage  de  Mile.  Beulemans  could  be 
merely  a  pretext  for  facile  jokes  and  it  has  been  seen,  in  La  Fraude 
by  L.  Fallens,  to  serve  as  the  setting  for  a  commonplace  melodrama. 
Crommelynck’s  strength  came  from  the  fact  that,  in  painting  Flanders, 
he  revived  Flemish  inspiration.  His  excessive,  improbable  inventions, 
his  imagination  overflowing  with  buffoonery  and  lyricism,  contained 
in  a  colossal  caricature  a  human  reality.  Without  expatiating  upon 
jealousy  he  gave  a  picture  of  the  jealous  maniac  far  more  authentically 
poetic  than  that  miserable  Amants  puerils  (performed  after  Le  Cocu 
but  written  before  it)  which  must  be  speedily  forgotten  in  order  to  see 
in  Le  Cocu  something  more  than  a  happy  beginning ;  and  perhaps  Emile 
Mazaud,  after  imitating  Courteline  in  La  Folle  Journee  and  Moliere 
in  Dardamelle,  will  consent  to  play  fairly,  stripping  his  farces  of 
every  sentimental  afterthought. 

5.  VERSE  DRAMA  AND  PLAYS  BY  POETS 

Some  still  write  tragedies  on  the  classical  model.  Alfred  Poizat 
and  Alfred  Mortier  rank  among  those  courageous  authors  who  seem  to 
consult  their  own  taste  rather  than  the  public’s.  Two  great  examples, 
Moreas’  Iphigenie  and  Verhaeren’s  Helene  de  Sparte,  have  shown  that, 
works  of  this  kind,  whatever  their  poetic  interest  when  read,  hardly 
stand  the  test  of  other  than  exceptional  performances. 

The  romantic  Banville  formula  is  more  susceptible  of  success.  Ed¬ 
mond  Rostand  exploited  it  to  the  end  of  his  life.  All  the  defects  we 
have  indicated  in  the  author  of  Cyrano  reappeared  in  L’Aiglon  and 
Chantecler.  A  deplorable  lack  of  taste  made  him  mistake  his  puerile 
prattle  for  the  abundance  of  genius,  his  painful  ingenuity  for  profound 
symbolism  and  his  rhymed  acrobatics  for  lyric  poetry.  Like  his 
cock  which  personifies  Tartarin  alone  among  French  heroes,  he  be¬ 
lieved  he  had  a  broad  culture  because  he  mixed  up  all  the  languages, 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  DRAMA  285 

Depuis  la  langue  d’oc,  jusqu’a  la  langue  toe  ( Chantecler .) 

and  imagined  he  created  a  sun  when  he  sang  the  death  of  verbal  ro¬ 
manticism.  It  would  be  cruel  to  insist  upon  the  nothingness  of  these 
great  failures.  The  desire  for  such  ambitious  constructions  turned 
Rostand  aside  from  his  natural  path,  from  artificial  comedy  in  the 
style  of  Les  Romanesques  and  of  Cyrano.  In  addition  to  Miguel  Zam- 
acois  who  wrote  Les  Bouffons  and  La  Fleur  mysterieuse  with  studied 
affectation,  Edmond  Rostand’s  legacy  was  garnered  by  his  wife,  Rose- 
mond  Gerard,  and  his  son,  who  collaborated  in  Un  Bon  Petit  Diable. 
Maurice  Rostand  has,  furthermore,  in  Le  Cercueil  de  cristal  and  La 
Gloire,  variously  utilized  the  paternal  memory  while,  at  the  same  time, 
revealing  himself,  in  Le  pilori,  a  d’Annunzio-like  disciple  of  Romain 
Rolland. 

Maurice  Magre  has,  from  Velleda  to  La  Mort  enchainee,  shown  an 
inexhaustible  fecundity  in  proving  it  possible  to  reverse  Racine’s  pre¬ 
cept  and  make  nothing  out  of  something.  The  result  obtained  by  him 
through  a  pretentious  pomp  is  achieved  by  Francis  Porche  through  an 
affectation  of  simplicity.  Les  Butors  et  la  Finette,  La  Jeune  Fille  aux 
joues  roses  and  La  Dauphine  are  the  work  of  a  shamefaced  Rostand. 
Rene  Fauchois’  romantic  impetuosity  has  been  employed,  with  fine  sin¬ 
cerity,  against  Racine  and  on  behalf  of  Strindberg.  His  Beethoven 
and  his  Rivoli  have  not  yet  declared  a  very  personal  technique.  As  for 
Andre  Rivoire  whose  poetry  and  prose  show  the  same  trivial  delicacy, 
he  remains  uniformly  superficial,  whether  he  invents  a  subject  (II  etait 
une  bergere),  or  wdiether  he  shares  its  paternity  with  Shakespeare 
(Juliette  et  Romeo),  with  Lucien  Besnard  (Mon  ami  Teddy)  or  with 
Yves  Mirande  (Pour  vivre  heureux).  Scarcely  anyone  but  Andre 
Picard,  author  of  UAnge  gardien,  is  seen  to  dispute  with  him  this 
prize  for  deadly  facility. 

Attempts  to  establish  a  real  poetic  drama  have,  however,  not  lacked 
these  last  twenty  years.  Maeterlinck  has  continued  his  work.  Maurice 
de  Faramond  has,  in  La  Noblesse  de  la  terre  and  Le  Mauvais  Grain,  at¬ 
tempted  to  create  “a  rustic  tragedy.”  Andre  Gide’s  two  plays  and 
Yiele-Griffin’s  Phocas  le  jardinier  have  been  played,  as  have  Paul  Fort’s 
teeming  Louis  XI  and  Alexander  Arnoux’s  pretty  fairy  melodrama, 
ILuon  de  Bordeaux.  Three  dramas  by  Claudel,  L’Echange,  UAnnonce 
and  UOtage  have  had  performances.  Jules  Romains’  L’Armee  dans 
la  vitte  and  Cromedyre  have  appeared  on  the  stage.  Before  L’CEuvre 
des  athletes,  Duhamel  had  been  revealed  as  the  author  of  La  Lumiere ; 
and  it  is  impossible  to  omit  from  this  review  the  splendid  homage 
which  Gabriel  d’Annunzio  paid  the  French  language  in  writing  Le 


286  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Martyre  de  Saint  Sebastien.  Now  of  these  plays,  produced  by  dar¬ 
ing  or  admiring  managers,  applauded  for  a  few  evenings  by  an  enthu¬ 
siastic  band,  not  one  has  long  remained  on  the  stage ;  and  the  success 
of  L’Oiseaw  blew,  a  work  exceptional  through  its  fairy  character,  un¬ 
fortunately  proves  nothing  to  the  contrary. 

Henri  Gheon  deserves  to  have  his  name  permanently  associated  with 
this  attempt  at  a  revival.  The  studies  on  the  poetic  drama  collected 
by  him  in  Nos  Directions  form  a  solid  plea  at  the  same  time  as  a  state¬ 
ment  of  the  problem.  He  has  understood  that,  at  a  moment  when 
Claude  Debussy  and  the  Russians  were  re-creating  the  musical  drama 
and  the  ballet,  a  renaissance  of  the  poetic  drama  was  needed ;  but  his 
first  attempts,  Le  Pain,  a  popular  “tragedy,”  and  L’Eaw-de-vie,  a 
“rustic  tragedy,”  hardly  realized  their  plan  for  the  “exaltation  of  the 
real.”  The  return  to  Catholicism  described  at  length  in  Le  Temoignr- 
age  d'un  converti  did  not  discipline  his  generous,  confused  inspiration. 
Drawing  upon  the  lives  of  the  saints,  he  has  written  Les  Trois  Miracles 
de  Sainte  Cecile,  Le  Pendu  dependu  and  Le  Pauvre  sous  Vescalier,  in 
which  he  mingles  mysticism  and  farce  in  the  manner  of  mediaeval  mys¬ 
teries.  In  spite  of  such  noble  intentions,  an  ironic  fate  has  willed  that 
Gheon,  defender  of  free  verse,  should  escape  none  of  the  temptations  of 
idle  loquacity  to  which  the  choice  of  this  instrument  exposes  him  and- 
that,  an  apostle  of  the  poetic  drama,  he  should  present,  in  Le  Pauvre, 
so  tiresome  an  image  of  it  as  to  discourage  the  staunchest  faith. 

And  yet,  to  mention  but  these  and  recalling  that  a  Christian  drama 
is  not  necessarily  a  settlement-school  entertainment,  there  are  Paul 
Claudel’s  plays.  It  would  be  vain  to  conceal  that  these  have  not  at¬ 
tained  the  wide  theatrical  diffusion  to  which  they  are  entitled.  It  is 
too  soon  to  ascertain  the  reasons  for  this  misunderstanding  between  the 
public  and  certain  of  the  greatest  dramatic  animators  of  our  age, 
those  who  should  be  authorized  to  repeat,  with  Lechy  Elberon : 

“They  listen  to  me  and  they  think  what  I  say.  They  look  at  me  and  I 
enter  their  soul  as  if  it  were  an  empty  house.” 


(L’L  change.') 


CHAPTER  X 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL 

THE  novel  continues  to  enjoy  an  incomparable  favour  with  the 
public.  A  temporary  triumph,  insinuate  some,  which  would 
not  withstand  a  great  poetic  renaissance  analogous  to 
Romanticism  or  to  Symbolism;  but  this  prediction  perhaps  merely 
manifests  a  survival  of  faith  in  noble  and  less  noble  forms.  The  novel 
seems  indeed  to  have  won,  in  the  nineteenth  century,  its  patents  of 
nobility  (if  nobility  there  be).  Rendered  flexible  by  the  various  ex¬ 
periments  of  Balzac,  Stendhal  and  Flaubert,  of  the  Naturalists  and 
of  their  adversaries,  enriched  by  foreign  influences  from  Meredith 
to  Dosto’fevski,  it  offers  contemporary  writers  the  most  sensitive  in¬ 
strument  for  the  expression  of  an  original  way  of  thinking.  Further¬ 
more  we  have  seen  many  poets  and  dramatists  resort  to  it  to  communi¬ 
cate  more  fully  with  their  readers.  Others  have,  from  the  beginning, 
found  it  so  rich  in  possibilities  that  they  have  devoted  to  it  their 
whole  talent.  All  schools  having  been  abolished,  never  did  it  better 
justify  the  Stendhalian  definition,  and  we  shall  not  endeavour  to 
group  the  novelists  otherwise  than  by  indicating  the  roads  along 
which  they  have  borne  their  mirror  and  the  various  pictures  it  has 
reflected. 


1.  THE  STOKY-TEEEERS 

And  first  of  all  we  must  place  apart  in  this  multitude  those  whose 
principal  concern  has  been  to  polish  the  mirror  they  were  to  hold  up 
to  nature.  However  different  may  be  the  romantic  Villiers,  the  eru¬ 
dite  Schwob  and  the  sceptical  Anatole  France,  they  have  this  trait  in 
common  that  the  way  of  giving  is  even  better  than  what  they  give. 
They  are  at  the  pinnacle  of  the  stylists  and  the  story-tellers. 

Jules  Lemaitre  was  successively)  a  distinguished  professor,  a  dis¬ 
tinguished  poet,  a  distinguished  critic,  a  distinguished  dramatist  and 
a  distinguished  politician.  In  no  domain  did  he  long  hold  first  rank. 
Several  times  he  seemed  on  the  point  of  achieving  greatness;  but  of 
his  master,  Renan,  he  retained  but  that  scepticism  which  paralyses 
the  creative  power  of  the  novelist  of  Les  Rois  and  soon  limits  the 

287 


288  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

sympathy  of  the  critic  of  Les  Contemporains.  The  irony  which 
opened  to  Anatole  France  a  world  to  explore  and  to  conquer  was 
for  him  but  the  vestment  of  the  humanist.  His  wisdom  remained  that 
of  a  cultivated  bourgeois  who  does  not  abandon  his  prejudices;  but, 
in  his  best  moments,  he  added  to  them  the  mocking  delicacy  of  a 
peasant  from  the  valley  of  the  Loir.  This  permitted  him  to  appear 
further  removed  from  Coppee  and  Sarcey  than  he  really  was.  More¬ 
over  he  recognized  his  limitations  and  strove  to  cultivate  this  garden 
of  delicate  taste  rather  than  long  risk  the  surprises  of  creation. 

His  books  of  tales,  Myrrha,  the  two  series  of  En  marge  des  vieux 
livres,  completed  by  La  Vieillesse  d’Helene,  contain  the  best  of  Le- 
maitre.  He  does  not  undertake  to  evoke  the  great  events  of  legend 
and  of  history  but  aimably  prolongs  tales  sufficiently  classic  for  his 
talent,  hostile  to  adventure,  to  feel  at  ease.  In  this  style,  Reveil  d’ om¬ 
bres  and  La  SirZne  are  excellent.  L’Innocente  Diplomatic  d’He¬ 
lene  and  Thersite  show  the  two  dangers,  platitude  or  emphasis,  which 
threaten  him  as  soon  as  fantasy  aspires  to  turn  into  psychology. 
Thus  Lemaitre  usually  prefers  to  derive  from  these  old  stories  a  les¬ 
son  of  amused  scepticism — political  dilettantism  from  L’Ecole  des  rois, 
religious  dilettantism  from  Le  Premier  Moitvement  which  delights 
in  comparing  the  two  opposite  careers  of  Un  Critique  and  Un  Idealiste 
or  in  resuscitating  the  Seven  Sleepers  of  Ephesus  for  the  sake  of  an 
ironic  vision.  He  loves  rehabilitations  and  revenges,  invents  a  sequel 
to  the  story  of  Griselda  and  corrects  fairy  tales;  but  this  smile  ill 
conceals  a  disenchantment  which  manifests  itself  all  the  more  as  his 
political  illusions  take  flight  and  as  old  age  approaches.  La  Vieillesse 
d’Helene  exhales  regret  for  ephemeral  love  with  slightly  wearying 
monotony.  We  should  prefer  a  less  obstinately  precise  cause  for 
disquietude  and,  after  this  grimacing  procession,  we  are  glad  to  re¬ 
read  the  picturesque  tales  which  compose  Gebhart’s  Au  Son  des 
cloches.  Where  Lemaitre  once  more  takes  the  lead  is  in  those  stories 
which,  under  a  transparent  disguise,  are  studies  of  literary  history. 
Mire  et  Fille  brings  out  maternal  grief  in  the  gay  Sevign'e.  The 
Journal  du  due  de  Burgogne  is  an  analysis  of  Fenelon  to  which  Le¬ 
maitre  afterwards  adds  but  a  big  useless  book.  In  such  stories  his 
charming  prose,  clever  at  perfuming  itself  with  discreet  archaisms, 
works  wonders.  There  he  finds  that  indulgent  detachment  which  was 
without  doubt  his  highest  ambition. 

Jerome  and  Jean  Tharaud  have  carried  the  art  of  the  story-teller 
to  the  point  where  the  story  is  sufficient  unto  itself  without  needing 
any  adornment.  Authors  of  a  dozen  books  they  have  written  but  two 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  289 

novels.  Furthermore  it  is  common  knowledge  what  their  Dingley  owes 
to  Kipling  and  they  assure  us  that  La  Maitresse  servante  is  a  true 
tale.  The  brothers  Tharaud  are  admirable  story-tellers.  With  an  al¬ 
most  equal  felicity  they  have  touched  on  several  important  problems 
of  contemporary  history:  English  imperialism,  French  nationalism, 
our  colonial  expansion  in  North  Africa,  the  Turkish  defeat  in  the 
Balkans,  Jewish  influence  in  Eastern  Europe.  They  have  introduced 
a  new  form  into  literature :  reporting.  How  cleverly  they  have  done 
this  is  seen  in  La  Bataille  a  Scutari  d’Albanie  where  two  episodes — a 
visit  to  Montenegro  and  another  to  Mount  Athos — suffice  them  to 
evoke  the  end  of  five  centuries  of  Islamic  domination.  Marrakech  dans 
les  palmes  is  the  triumph  of  this  virtuosity.  Two  landscapes  seized 
in  the  course  of  a  motor  tour  to  situate  the  tales  told  them  by  the 
officers  of  the  Protectorate — with  this  meagre  material  they  have  writ¬ 
ten  a  book  full  of  animation.  They  have  applied  the  same  reportorial 
method  to  the  past.  La  Tragedie  de  Rarvuillac  is  a  model  of  historic 
journalism. 

The  secret  of  this  power  is  an  infallible  sureness  of  craftsmanship. 
Even  when  they  attack  the  richest  subject,  the  Tharauds  excel  in  mak¬ 
ing  their  selection.  They  do  not  seek  to  say  everything.  They  isolate 
the  essential  episode,  tell  it  with  a  powerful  sobriety,  firmly  indicating 
all  the  consequences  that  can  be  deduced  from  it.  They  never  suffer 
an  encroachment.  In  Un  Royaume  de  Dieu  they  depict  only  the  little 
Jewish  community  of  Schwarze  Teme,  lost  in  a  corner  of  immense 
Russia.  The  abundance  of  their  information  is  self-disciplined  in  an 
impeccable  tale  strongly  underscored  with  a  quiet  humour;  and  yet, 
once  the  book  is  closed,  what  reader  can  escape  the  impression  that 
he  has  seen  passing,  in  this  crowded  Ghetto,  some  of  the  Jews  who 
will  soon  be  the  masters  of  Russia,  perhaps  even  of  the  world? 

This  talent  for  composition,  equally  apparent  in  the  broad  fresco 
of  A  V ombre  de  la  croix  and  in  the  brutal  brevity  of  Les  Hobereaux, 
the  Tharauds  are  capable  of  subordinating  to  a  picturesque  effect  as 
well  as  to  a  psychological  development.  A  comparison  between  the 
two  Dingleys  with  their  strictly  opposite  denouements  shows  how  far 
this  suppleness  extends.  Their  style  possesses  precisely  the  same 
qualities.  When  they  do  not  survey  it,  it  recalls  rather  sponta¬ 
neously  the  sentence  structure  dear  to  every  admirer  of  their  master, 
Barres:  “Near  their  rusty  wells,  in  their  inner  courts,  I  hear  far  bet¬ 
ter  than  in  the  sham  mediasval  setting  the  murmur  made  by  history 
about  the  antique  citadel.”  This  sentence  is  found  in  Quand  Israel  est 
roi,  which  is  dedicated  to  Barres  and  which  is  moreover  one  of  the  Tha¬ 
rauds’  most  impassioned  books.  Ordinarily  they  have  a  firmer  grip 


290  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

on  themselves  and  their  prose  realizes  the  paradox  of  an  impersonal 
perfection.  Perhaps  the  collaboration  of  two  minds  pitiless  for  each 
other  explains  this  result  which  is  to  let  the  eye  grasp  its  object 
through  colourless  glass  the  better  to  respect  the  colours  of  what  is 
described — a  deliberate  style,  stript  of  adjectives,  subduing  the  bril¬ 
liance  of  the  foreign  words  incorporated  into  it  so  as,  literally,  to 
photograph  life. 

A  tiresome  perfection  sometimes.  Certain  critics  have  thought  that 
this  form  of  the  Tharauds’,  which  proscribes  originality  with  its  dan¬ 
gers  of  deformation,  announced  the  beginning  of  a  new  academicism ; 
and  one  welcomes  with  a  malicious  joy,  towards  the  end  of  La  Mai- 
tresse  servante,  this  sentence  which  closes  a  Barres-like  cadence : 
“Mariette  has  often  made  me  think  of  these  captive  springs.  They 
are  there  faithful,  abundant,  always  ready  for  domestic  uses,  and 
in  them  is  seen  the  sky.”  This  pleasure  however  leads  fairly  soon  to  a 
more  important  discovery.  It  is  a  mistake  to  believe  that  in  assuming 
this  mask  of  historians,  the  Tharauds  have  ceased  to  be  novelists. 
They  are  not  so  absent  from  their  wmrk  as  they  have  wished  or  at 
least  as  they  have  wished  it  to  be  believed.  For  them,  the  Limousin 
of  La  Maitresse  servante  is  no  more  a  convenient  background  than 
Angouleme  so  like  the  soul  of  Ravaillac.  They  did  not  write  an 
official  eulogy  in  their  Deroulede.  The  two  Dingleys  permit  us  to 
measure  the  disappointment  caused  them  by  Kipling.  La  Fete  arabe 
is  a  special  plea.  Still  more  convincing  is  a  recent  experiment.  To 
the  Jewish  problem  which  preoccupied  them  as  early  as  Bar-Cochebas 
(1907),  they  have  recently  devoted  four  books.  Those  who  were 
surprised  by  the  anti-Semitism  of  Quand  Israel  est  roi  and  by  the  de¬ 
nunciation  of  the  eternal  Ahasuerus,  of  the  “race  of  charlatans  and 
dupes”  always  ready  to  trouble  the  peace  of  the  world  in  order  to 
realize  the  Messianic  dream,  had  been  wrong  to  believe  in  the  Tha- 
raud’s  coldness ;  and  it  is  salutary  that  this  talent  so  robust  and  in 
appearance  so  disinterested  should  sometimes  disclose,  behind  its  dis¬ 
ciplined  lucidity,  a  human  passion. 

The  readers  won  for  Han  Ryner  by  his  title  “Prince  of  Story¬ 
tellers”  must  have  been  disappointed  if  they  looked  in  his  work  for 
tales  of  breathless  excitement;  but  they  have  not  regretted  it  if  they 
were  sensitive  to  the  revelation  of  a  noble  thought.  Han  Ryner  who 
has  devoted  one  book  to  the  life  of  Jesus  ( Le  Cinquieme  Evangile ) 
and  another.Jo  that  of  Pythagoras  ( Le  Fils  dn  Silence )  is  nourished 
with  all  the  philosophic  and  mystic  wisdom  of  the  past.  Like  the 
Rosnys  for  whom  he  has  expressed  his  admiration  he  has,  in  La 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  291 

Tour  des  peuples,  painted  a  vast  prehistoric  fresco.  In  Les  Paeifiques, 
reviving  the  sunken  Atlantis,  he  has  imagined  his  island  of  Utopia, 
stigmatized  the  baseness  of  modern  life  and  embodied  his  ideal.  He 
has  placed  at  the  service  of  the  free,  clear  Love  which  he  preaches,  an 
ingenious  dialectic  with  manifold  poetical  inventions.  Nowhere  has  he 
done  it  more  happily  than  in  Les  Paraboles  cymques  with  the  philos¬ 
opher  Psychodorus,  disciple  of  Diogenes,  as  spokesman:  “Whether 
it  be  to  affirm  his  practical  certitudes,  or  to  sing  the  hovering  of  the 
dreams  which  to-morrow  the  clergy  and  the  universities  will  disfigure 
and  paralyse  into  systems,  the  wise  man  employs  willingly  .  .  .  the 
parable.”  Certainly  Han  Ryner  knows  the  goal  to  which  he  aspires  and 
which  is  to  render  “more  conscious  and  more  voluntary  God’s  sacrifice 
in  dying  for  the  life  of  the  worlds,  the  sacrifice  of  the  worlds  dying  for 
the  life  of  God”;  but  he  means  to  keep  for  his  thought  its  full  scope: 
“I  never  reproach  a  thought  with  having  wings  and  being  a  dream.” 
He  denounces  fanaticisms  as  so  many  forms  of  slavery  to  a  narrow 
formula,  “for  no  word  is  a  vase  wide  or  deep  enough  to  contain  the 
whole  truth.”  He  does  not  fear  contradictions  if  they  conform  to 
the  supple  variety  of  life.  Thus  he  prefers  to  clothe  his  practical 
certitudes  and  his  metaphysical  anticipations  in  the  changing  tissues 
of  the  parable.  Here  Han  Ryner  joins  the  brotherhood  of  the  poets 
haunted  with  the  desire  expressed  by  Baudelaire  “for  a  poetic  prose, 
musical,  rhythmless  and  without  rhyme,  sufficiently  flexible  and  suffi¬ 
ciently  broken  to  adapt  itself  to  the  lyrical  movements  of  the  soul, 
to  the  waves  of  reverie,  to  the  sudden  stabs  of  conscience.” 

2.  THE  ARTISTIC  NOVEL 

In  the  preface  to  Les  Vacances  d’un  jeune  homme  sage  Hendi  de  Reg- 
nier  explains  that  his  vocation  as  a  novelist  who  “narrates  certain 
ways  of  living,  either  in  times  past  or  in  our  own  times,”  is  due  to 
“a  personal  taste  for  finding  amusement  in  events  and  in  persons.” 
He  might  add  he  has  yielded  to  this  bent  only  as  a  poet  in  whose  eyes 
imaginary  creatures  are  of  no  more  importance  than  the  petals  of  a  red 
rose  falling  in  a  few  splashes  of  blood.  Thus  he  will  not  be  offended 
if  we  note  that  his  great  qualities  as  a  novelist  appear  to  better  ad¬ 
vantage  in  the  trefle  rouge  formed  by  the  three  stories  in  Les  Amants 
smguliers  than  in  the  long-drawn-out  narrative  of  La  PecJieresse. 
Yet  in  this  last  book  evocation  of  the  past  retains  a  little  of  the 
nonchalant  charm  which  seduced  the  readers  of  La  Double  Maitresse ; 
but  his  “modern  novels”  derive  their  value  above  all  from  the  details, 
as  seen  in  L’Amphisbene  where  his  painting  of  love  distinct  from 
pleasure  misses  the  perfection  which  showed  them  united  in  L' Amour 


292  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

et  le  Plaisir,  “histoire  galante,”  the  pearl  of  the  volume  Couleur  da 
temps  which,  with  Tiburce  et  ses  Amis,  shows  also  a  Regnier  distinctly 
ill  at  ease  in  the  symbolical  allegories  with  Urien  and  Monelle.  Ro- 
maine  Mirmault  begins  in  a  Paris  of  restaurants  and  automobiles  and 
ends  in  fantastic  melodrama  where  the  only  trace  of  his  delicate  taste 
is  the  precaution  he  has  taken  to  exile  to  Rome  a  heroine  out  of  place 
in  so  regrettable  a  denouement.  Must  it  be  said  that  in  La  Pear  de 
V amour  the  two  protagonists  interest  us  less  than  the  description  of 
that  Venice  for  which  Plenri  de  Regnier  reserves  all  the  tender  melan¬ 
choly  Versailles  was  not  sufficient  to  slake? 

In  order  to  speak  of  the  present — an  epoch  upon  which  time  has 
not  yet  imposed  a  “style” — Regnier  is  forced  to  fall  back  upon  ac¬ 
cessories.  At  best,  he  can  resort  to  the  artifice  of  Le  Passe  vivant 
or  revive,  as  in  Les  Vacances,  “some  of  the  little  events  which,  at  the 
age  of  fifteen,  move  us  most  deeply  and  which,  later,  make  us  smile 
as  one  smiles  at  the  past,  with  regret  and  melancholy.”  When  this  past 
is  really  the  past,  when  the  souls,  the  objects  and  the  words  which 
evoke  them  are  all  of  the  same  date,  then  Henri  de  Regnier  manifests 
his  mastery.  This  is  the  case  of  Le  Bon  Plaisir,  a  chronicle  of  the 
reign  of  Louis  XIV  completed  by  an  ingenious  pastiche.  In  it  a  whole 
epoch  lives  again  with  its  pageant  of  war,  its  court  intrigues,  its 
understanding  of  pleasure.  Yet  this  tale  claims  to  be  merely  the  story 
of  Monsieur  de  Pocancy  “who  played  no  other  role  in  his  century 
than  that  of  having  lived,  as  we  live  in  ours — a  role  which  runs  the 
risk  of  being  of  little  importance  to  times  or  to  men  to  come” — a 
melancholy  sentence  where  reappears  the  poet  who,  in  his  most 
recent  collection  of  verse,  confesses: 

J’ augur e  d’aujourd’hui  ce  que  sera  demain 

Et  je  suis  fatigue  d’etre  ce  que  nous  sommes, 

Sachant  ce  que  fut  vivre  et  combien  vivre  est  vain , 

Quand  on  n’est  rien  de  plus  que  I’un  d’entre  les  hommes. 

(Vestigia  Flammce.') 

His  verse,  in  which  the  Hellenic  tradition  incorporated  the  Symbolist 
conquests,  has  sung  of  love.  His  prose,  entirely  orientated  towards 
classic  models,  has  been  readier  to  speak  of  pleasure.  The  same 
haughty  melancholy  inspires  the  liquid  stanzas  and  the  sinuous  pe¬ 
riods.  Vestigia  Flammce  which  once  more  evokes  Versailles  and  Venice, 
which,  in  poems  of  an  equal  perfection,  recalls  the  memory  of  the  first 
Odelettes,  gives  us  the  ultimate  conclusion  of  the  poet  and  of  the 
novelist  in  the  complex  emotion  of  Le  Depart  and  in  this  portrait  of  a 
happiness  without  illusion: 


•s 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  293 

Aussi  bien  que  les  pleurs  le  rire  fait  des  rides. 

Nedis  jamais:  Encore,  et  dis  plutot:  Assez  .  .  . 

Le  Bonheur  est  un  Lieu  qui  marche  les  mains  vides 
Et  regarde  la  vie  avec  des  yeux  baisses. 

The  leading  ideas  of  Pierre  Louys  have  been  set  forth  in  the  preface 
to  his  Aphrodite.  At  the  beginning  of  this  novel,  the  story  of  a  courte¬ 
san  who  is  original  enough  not  to  be  converted,  Louys  recalls  the 
beauty  of  “the  high  Greek  sensuality,”  the  rights  of  physical  love  and 
of  the  human  body.  He  asserts  that  the  morality  of  the  race  which 
built  the  Acropolis  “has  remained  that  of  all  great  minds.”  One  of 
his  best  stories,  Une  Volupte  nouvelle,  declares  that  humanity  has  not 
advanced  a  step  since  Democritus,  Parmenides  and  Pythagoras.  Ugly 
and  barbarous,  the  modern  world  would  be  pitilessly  condemned  had 
it  not  invented  the  cigarette.  Thus  Pierre  Louys  has  endeavoured  to 
revive,  in  imagination  at  any  rate,  the  happy  antique  epochs.  He 
has  done  it  as  a  scholar,  with  such  success  that  the  Chansons  de  Bilitis, 
which  revive  the  love  adventures  of  a  courtesan  of  the  sixth  century 
before  our  era  in  Pamphilia,  Mytilene  and  Cyprus,  were  accepted  by 
certain  authorities  as  the  translation  they  purported  to  be.  He  has 
done  it  above  all  as  a  poet,  the  poet  of  Astarte  or  of  these  lines  for 
which  Regnier  may  feel  a  friendly  envy: 

Rappelez-vous  qu’un  soir  nous  vecumes  ensemble 
L’heure  unique  oil  les  dieux  accordent,  un  instant, 

A  la  tete  qui  penche,  a  Vepaule  qui  tremble, 

L’ esprit  pur  de  la  vie  en  fuite  avec  le  temps. 

( L’Apogee .) 

The  poet  is  everywhere  present  in  Louy’s  work.  His  is,  in  Bilitis,  the 
smiling  grace  of  the  Bucolics,  the  sombre  ardour  of  the  Elegies,  the 
incisive  picturesqueness  of  the  Epigrams.  It  is  he  who  fashions 
the  variegated  fresco  of  Aphrodite,  orders  the  movements  of  the  char¬ 
acters  all  the  way  to  the  grandiose  ascent  of  Chrysis,  sheds  the  pious 
pity  of  Timon  over  cruel  denouements,  clothes  his  narrative  in  a  sup¬ 
ple  musical  prose  with  recurring  Wagnerian  leitmotifs;  and,  if  he 
does  not  conduct  his  heroine  to  the  feet  of  a  monk,  makes  her  neverthe¬ 
less  “daughter  of  Jerusalem”  in  order  to  unite  the  harmonies  of  the 
two  great  sources  of  lyricism. 

“Sensuality  is  the  condition,  mysterious  but  necessary  and  creative, 
of  intellectual  development.”  So  says  the  preface  to  Aphrodite.  La 
Femme  et  le  Pantin  brings  the  negative  confirmation  of  this  assertion. 
If  Mateo  is  but  a  plaything  for  Concha,  it  is  because  of  his  cowardice. 
He  does  not  know  how  to  utilize  sensuality  for  his  intellectual  de- 


294  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

velopment.  Why  has  he  not  meditated  the  lesson  of  Demetrios?  This 
latter,  too,  falls,  for  an  instant,  into  the  error  that  his  two  lives  must 
be  separated.  Thus  he  becomes  the  slave  of  Chyrsis  and  commits 
three  crimes  for  her;  but  he  soon  masters  himself  sufficiently  to  re¬ 
fuse  the  beautiful  courtesan  the  love  and  the  blows  she  implores  with 
an  equal  fervour.  He  simply  makes  use  of  her  exquisite  body  for 
one  of  his  statues.  Passion  is  slavery  (the  first  title  of  Aphrodite 
proclaimed  it).  One  must  free  oneself  from  it  to  equal  the  gods  and  to 
create.  For  the  artist’s  creation  is  superior  to  everything,  Louys 
will  repeat  in  L’Homme  de  pourpre.  Hence  his  haughty  detachment, 
different  enough,  whatever  he  may  say,  from  the  antique  irony.  Louys 
does  not  disown  the  modern  world  until  he  has  borrowed  its  most  re¬ 
fined  anarchy.  In  the  last  part  of  the  book,  certain  phrases  of 
Demetrios  lack  very  visibly  the  accompaniment  of  a  puff  of  scented 
cigarette  smoke. 

Thus  Les  A  ventures  du  roi  Pans  ole  carry  us  out  of  time,  to  a 
country  the  name  of  which  evokes  the  Tryphe  of  the  apologue  which 
prefaced  Aphrodite.  This  book  tells  of  the  triumph  of  the  pretty 
Giglio  over  the  Puritan  Taxis.  It  praises  the  naked  voluptuousness 
which  throws  off  even  the  sheets  beneath  which  Regnier  conceals  pleas¬ 
ure  ;  and  if,  meditating  the  author’s  counsel,  one  has  been  able  “never 
exactly  to  take  Fantasy  for  the  Dream,  or  Trypheme  for  Utopia, 
or  King  Pausolus  for  the  perfect  Being,”  one  will  then  understand 
how,  in  all  his  works,  Louys  has  surpassed  erotic  Alexandrianism 
through  the  smile  of  a  lucid  intelligence  and  a  passionate  worship  of 
beauty. 

Pierre  Mille’s  fecundity  risks  obscuring  the  esteem  he  deserves.  A 
great  traveller,  he  is  also  an  explorer  of  souls  and,  as  he  says  in  the 
preface  to  Le  Monarque,  aspires  to  make  “a  modest  contribution  to 
the  quite  modern  science  of  social  geography.”  Mille  has  been  com¬ 
pared  to  Kipling.  Admitting  the  rapprochement,  it  was  easy  to 
show  that  his  agreeable  descriptions,  his  discreetly  mocking  good  sense 
had  not  the  relief  which  gives  authority  to  the  lyrical  or  humoristic 
creations  of  his  pretended  model.  Mille  has,  on  the  other  hand,  from 
Quand  Panurge  ressuscita  and  L’Enfant  et  la  Reine  morte,  to  Le  Bol 
de  Chine  and  Les  Memoires  d'un  Dada  besogneux,  written  a  whole  series 
of  works  in  which  he  is  content  to  inscribe,  in  the  margin  of  current 
events,  a  smiling  story  or  a  lively  essay  of  literary  or  artistic  criti¬ 
cism.  Nothing  more  was  needed  for  certain  critics  to  reduce  him  to 
the  level  of*  a  mere  journalist,  enhancing  his  fables  with  a  touch 
of  Anglomania. 


•s 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  295 

Pierre  Mille’s  three  soundest  books — Barnavaux  et  quelques  femmes, 
Caillou  et  Till,  Le  Monarque- — have  a  common  trait:  the  central 
figure,  a  soldier  in  the  colonial  infantry,  a  little  boy  of  five,  a 
Meridional  half  Tartarin,  half  Don  Quixote,  is  always  a  poet  whose 
imagination  transfigures  reality.  Each  of  them  is  there,  like  “the 
figure  placed  by  artists  at  the  foot  of  the  building  they  are  painting. 
He  is  quite  small,  but  he  gives  the  scale.  He  is  nothing,  and  the 
picture  is  nothing  without  him.”  Their  presence  ensures  the  neces¬ 
sary  link  among  the  various  tales  of  “ la  vaste  terre”  told  by  the 
author.  Pie  gladly  yields  them  first  place,  but  does  not  disappear. 
His  personal  experience  reinforces  Barnavaux’  intuitions  in  matters 
I  of  colonial  or  international  politics.  He  confirms  Caillou’s  wisdom  by 
his  distrust  of  an  education  which  generally  consists  “in  making  little 
Frenchmen  lose  their  personality  and  their  instincts.”  Pie  averts  the 
irony  which  menaced  Le  Monarque  by  a  series  of  tales  of  the  North. 
Thus  Pierre  Mille’s  art  associates  life  and  fantasy.  Sometimes  the 
balance  is  destroyed  for  example  in  Louise  et  Barnavaux  where 
the  hero  let  himself  be  enmeshed  in  the  real;  but,  in  all  his  successful 
•work,  a  sane  poetry  turns  smiles  insensibly  into  tears,  amusement  into 
emotion.  There  remains  a  melancholy  in  the  farewell  to  the  ageing 
Monarque  and  we  have  better  understood  the  grandeur  and  servitude 
of  military  life  when  we  leave  Barnavaux  who  has  “really  made  bread, 
life,  glory.” 

The  Espelunque,  scene  of  Le  Monarque,  is  not  far  from  Grasse,  Aix 
and  Marseilles  where  Francis  de  Miomandre  has  situated  several  of 
his  novels.  Miomandre  also  loves  the  Far  East;  but  he  feels  no  need 
to  go  and  see  it.  A  few  bibelots  suffice  him  for  its  evocation  and  his 
desk  at  Auteuil,  pleasantly  described  in  Les  Voyages  d'un  sedentaire, 
is  a  world  for  him.  Does  he  not  himself  possess  that  imagination, 
ever  alert,  which  he  has  attributed  to  Pierre  de  Median  in  Ecrit  sur  de 
Veau  and  to  Simon  de  Torville  in  Le  Veau  d’or  et  la  V ache  enragee, 
Provenfals  without  money  but  so  rich  in  projects  that  they  live  in  the 
allusion  of  a  fabulous  fortune?  That  novelist  is  not  unworthy  of  such 
characters  who,  with  the  minimum  of  romantic  means,  evokes  the  fan¬ 
tasy  of  La  Cabane  d’ amour  and  the  drama  of  Le  Journal  interrompu, 
who  defines  one  of  his  works  as  “a  model  of  the  desultory  form,”  who 
aspires  in  another  to  aim  merely  at  the  preservation  of  “the  sacred 
rights  of  the  improbable”  and  on  the  threshold  of  a  third  inscribes  this 
warning:  “If  you  know  the  charms  of  leisure  and  of  digression,  you 
will  enjoy  my  book.”  And  has  not  the  author  of  the  fine  criticisms  in 
Le  Pavilion  du  mandarin  found  his  recompense  when  the  Far  East 


296  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

came  to  him,  in  L’Aventure  de  There se  Beauchamps,  under  the  form  of 
two  Chinamen  whose  smooth,  mysterious  politeness  dissembles  with 
equal  perfection,  love  and  sensuality,  devotion  and  egotism,  the  un¬ 
common  and  the  commonplace? 

3.  EXOTICISM  AN»  ADVENTURE 

Claude  Farrere’s  first  books  were  received  with  enthusiasm.  Once 
more  a  naval  officer  was  going  to  renew  exoticism.  Very  different 
from  the  lyrical  Loti,  Farrere  revealed  himself  a  master  of  the  dramatic 
novel.  Fumees  d’opium  offered,  athwart  its  pageant  of  the  “epochs,” 
the  diversity  of  powerful  and  tender  legends,  the  grandiose  naval 
fresco  in  which  M.  de  Fierce  triumphs  and  the  crescendo  nightmares 
of  the  trances.  In  the  works  which  followed,  Farrere  painted  vigor¬ 
ous  Oriental  settings — Indo-China,  Japan,  Turkey.  Each  book  was 
a  cosmopolitan  fan.  The  strokes  of  this  brush  were  so  sure  that  the 
depiction  of  the  external  attitudes  sufficed  to  evoke  the  most  complex 
psychology,  to  indicate,  across  an  enormous  gulf,  subtle  analogies  be¬ 
tween  East  and  West.  Capable  of  passion  in  the  epic  pages  which 
terminate  Les  Civilises,  Farrere  excelled  in  awakening  the  sense  of  the 
mysterious.  Far  more  than  the  picturesque  hara-kiri  or  the  descrip¬ 
tions  of  Stamboul,  the  old  Chinaman  of  La  Bataille  and  the  old  Turk 
of  L’Homme  qui  assassma  rendered  sensible  the  enigmatic  power  of 
the  stationary  Oriental  civilizations  compared  to  which  our  feverish 
activities  appeared  childish.  After  reading  such  novels,  one  repeated 
what  Louys  said  after  Fumees  d’opium.:  “Anything  may  be  expected 
of  a  young  writer  capable  of  composing  such  pictures.” 

Farrere  wished  to  strip  himself  of  this  exotic  prestige.  At  least, 
in  Mademoiselle  Dax,  jeune  fille,  he  kept  the  solidity  of  his  tech¬ 
nique.  The  satire  of  a  bourgeoisie  “respectable  to  the  point  of  throw¬ 
ing  Alice  Dax  into  the  street”  gives  agreeable  relief  to  the  extremely 
well  handled  story  of  a  fairly  commonplace  adventure ;  but  Les  Petites 
Alliees  (sequel  to  Mademoiselle  Dax )  unfortunately  destroys  the  bal¬ 
ance.  Taking  as  a  background  Toulon,  which  he  describes  with  his 
usual  distinctness,  Farrere  tries  to  convert  us  to  a,  garrulous  ethics. 
Now,  although  very  different  from  Henri  Bordeaux’,  his  morality  none 
the  less  burdens  the  narrative. 

Should  this  failure  in  the  didactic  form  be  held  responsible  for  the 
reaction  which  drove  Farrere  to  the  novel  of  adventure?  La  Maison 
des  homines  vivants  rather  curiously  mingled  memories  of  Edgar  Poe 
and  the  inspiration  of  the  latter  part  of  Fumees  with  the  plot  of  a 
popular  novel.  His  success  in  this  field  seems  to  have  decided  Far¬ 
rere  not  to  leave  it.  Whether  he  draws  upon  the  chronicles  of  the 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  297 

FrZres  de  la  Cote  in  Thomas  VAgnelet,  gentilhomme  de  fortune,  or  the 
recent  war  in  La  Derniere  Deesse,  whether  he  tells  endless  stories  of 
sailors  and  soldiers,  he  now  appears  to  aim  merely  at  deriving  from 
them  rather  cheap  melodramatic  effects.  By  dint  of  keeping  close 
to  journalism,  he  ends  by  writing  and  thinking  journalese — witness 
that  Condamnes  a  mort  the  comic  grandiloquence  of  which  is  disarm¬ 
ing  .  .  .  And  in  Les  Hommes  Nouveaux,  all  the  reportorial  common¬ 
places  spoil  the  solid  portrait  of  Amedee  Bourron,  African  money- 
grabber. 

Thomas  VAgnelet  cleverly  unites  exoticism  and  adventure.  Already 
before  the  war  the  novel  of  adventure  had  again  come  into  favour 
with  the  public  and  also  with  the  young  writers  to  whom  Schwob  had 
shown,  by  his  example  and  by  his  translations  of  Stevenson  and  De¬ 
foe,  that  there  was  no  reason  for  abandoning  this  form  to  the  hacks. 
The  war  had  helped  to  rehabilitate  it  by  provoking  an  imaginative 
exodus.  Thus  many  writers  who  would  formerly  have  prolonged 
their  poetic  period  a  little  have  begun  with  a  novel  of  adventure. 
This  is  the  case  with  Jean  Galmot  whose  Quelle  Etrange  Histoire  .  .  . 
tells  a  story  of  the  sea  and  of  the  Guiana  jungle  with  brutal  lyricism; 
and  Louis  Ghadourne — to  whom  we  are  since  indebted  for  an  interest¬ 
ing  psychological  novel,  L’Inquiette  Adolescence— made  himself  known 
by  his  Maitre  du  navire  which,  while  showing  what  residue  of  Byronic 
romanticism  remains  in  the  novel  of  adventure,  corrects  it  with  a 
very  up-to-date  humour  fed  by  all  the  exotic  and  fantastic  poets  of 
1920. 

Pierre  Benoit  has  had  leisure  to  reveal  without  hindrance  his 
whole  poetic  personality  in  Diadumene  and  Les  Suppliantes,  volumes 
of  legendary  and  historical  evocations  wherein  fifteen  halting  verses 
lead  to  a  sixteenth  which  is,  regularly,  a  spurious  good  verse.  When 
one  has  read  two  volumes  of  quatrains  in  this  style: 

J’aime  en  toi  cet  orgueil,  ce  respect  de  toi-meme, 

Pousse  jusques  au  point  ou  tu  l’ auras  conduit, 

Toi  qui  sais  preferer  la  bure  morne  et  bleme 
Aux  baisers  de  quelqu’un  que  tu  n’as  pas  choisi 

( Pour  Junie.') 

one  understands  Benoit’s  seeking  fortune  elsewhere  than  in  literature. 
His  first  novels  of  adventure,  Kosnigsmarlc  and  UAtlantide,  were  not 
much  inferior  to  the  similar  productions  of  Maurice  Leblanc  or 
Gaston  Leroux.  On  the  contrary,  Pour  Don  Carlos  and  Le  Lac  sale 
make  one  doubt  whether  Benoit  can  even  construct  a  good  dime  novel. 


298  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

This  poverty  renders  more  evident  the  virtuosity  of  Pierre  Mac 
Orlan,  a  prolific  writer  whose  most  striking  quality  is  an  inexhaustible 
spirit  of  drollery.  Certain  gruesome  pleasantries  already  displayed 
this  in  his  war  book,  Les  Poissons  morts.  It  animates  Le  Chant  de 
Vequipage  and,  in  spite  of  the  negligences  of  style  which  appear  al¬ 
most  provocative,  creates  living  characters  like  Joseph  Kriihl.  This 
book  bears  witness  to  a  singular  talent  for  construction  by  means  of 
easy  gradations,  from  humoristic  fantasy  to  true  adventure,  from 
caricature  to  violent  emotion,  which  is  also  the  charm  of  the  story  in 
A  bord  de  “ VEtoile  matutine.”  In  the  Petit  Manuel  du  parfait  aven- 
turier  Mac  Orlan  has  amused  himself  by  unveiling  to  the  public  the 
workings  of  the  romantic  imagination,  connecting  the  state  for  ad¬ 
venture  with  the  most  cruel  erotic  dissimulation.  La  Chronique  des 
temps  desesperes,  a  series  of  stories  in  the  manner  of  Schwob  inspired 
exclusively  by  the  terrible  and  with  no  place  for  pity,  accentuates 
the  inhuman  aspect  of  this  art.  On  the  contrary,  in  La  Cavaliere 
Elsa,  the  dry  humour  and  the  motley  picturesqueness  of  Russia  under 
the  Soviets  and  of  that  Montmartre  already  evoked  in  La  Clique  du 
cafe  Brebis,  do  not  stifle  the  poetic  voice  of  the  chorus.  For  this 
inspiration  of  Mac  Orlan’s  has  abrupt  lyric  reactions,  such  as 
the  end  of  Le  Negre  Leonard  et  Maitre  Jean  Mullm,  an  amusing 
story  of  witchcraft:  “Each  of  us  possesses  in  himself,  in  his  most 
secret  thoughts,  the  little  vulgar  detail  permitting  him  to  end  his 
days  in  melancholy.”  In  the  universe  which  Paul  Morand,  in 
Ouvert  la  Nuit  and  still  more  in  Ferme  la  Nuit,  presents  us  as  cut  to 
shreds  by  human  caprice,  Mac  Orlan  enjoys  revealing  occult  influences 
which  seek  each  other  confusedly  and,  if  they  meet,  can  lead,  invisible, 
the  dance  of  a  mad  world.  Such  is  the  profound  meaning  of  La 
Venus  internationale,  a  bold  anticipation  where  the  association  of  two 
beings  through  the  spaces  arrests  an  instant  the  world  catastrophe 
and  where  their  tragic  disunion  marks  the  ruin  of  Europe,  “beautiful, 
heavy  corolla  broken  on  its  stem.” 

To  be  successful  an  exotic  novel  must  be  doubly  successful.  Too 
often  the  exoticism  is  used  merely  to  strengthen  a  mediocre  love-story. 
Such  is  the  case  with  Jean  d’Esme’s  Thi-ba,  file  d’Annam.  In  Le  Kilo¬ 
metre  83  by  Henry  Daguerches  it  is,  on  the  contrary,  the  plot  which 
cramps  an  interesting  description  of  Saigon,  of  the  Khmere  forest 
and  the  construction  of  the  Siam-Cambodia  railway ;  but  the  exotic 
novel  benefits  by  an  undeniable  attraction.  Of  the  numerous  books 
by  Jean  A j  albert  the  most  read  remain  Sao-Van-Di,  the  story  of  a 
Laotian  love  idyll  with  an  atmosphere  of  songs  and  lyrical  improvisa¬ 
tions,  and  Raffn-Su-Su  in  which  the  life  of  a  Government  Commis- 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  299 

sioner,  after  fourteen  years’  residence  in  Laos,  is  described  with  re¬ 
strained  sympathy.  Tonkin  and  Annam  provide  the  settings  amid 
which  Jules  Boissiere,  author  of  Propos  (Pun  Intoxique  and  Fumeurs 
(POpinm  has  placed  his  penetrating  analyses  of  the  ravages  of  the  drug 
and  of  its  effects  upon  refined  minds.  The  complex  poetry  of  his 
Comediens  ambulant s  remains  a  unique  document.  The  wholesome 
evocation  of  French  Canada  had  much  to  do  with  the  success  of  Maria 
Chapdelaine,  a  robust  novel  in  which  Louis  Hemon  has  faithfully  inter¬ 
preted  the  double  atmosphere  of  provincial  life  and  the  free  life  devoted 
to  “making  land,”  in  which  he  has  eloquently  awakened  voices  of  the 
past  sufficiently  persuasive  to  decide  the  heroine  to  choose  this  rude 
existence  in  spite  of  the  glittering  temptations  of  the  great  cities. 
Des  Hommes  by  Bernard  Combette  who,  like  Louis  Hemon,  disappeared 
before  giving  his  full  measure,  brings  together  stories  based  upon  mem¬ 
ories  of  travels  in  China  and  in  the  Congo  brush.  Brutal  shocks  and 
subtle  impressions  remain  inextricably  mingled  in  them. 

Despite  his  premature  death,  Victor  Segalen  left  a  refined  work  com¬ 
pared  to  which  many  volumes  of  brilliant  Orientalism  seem  medlej^s 
of  bad  taste.  A  poet,  he  revealed  himself  in  the  book  of  Chinese 
Steles ,  patient  crystallizations  of  the  “whirling  eddies  of  the  great 
stream  Diversity,”  sumptuous  pictures  of  “life  sugar-sweet  or  sharply 
spiced.”  Some,  facing  South,  tell  of  imperial  majesty.  Others, 
straight  North,  have  the  charm  of  mysterious  friendship.  Those  by 
the  wayside,  “accessible  to  all  .  .  .  follow  the  indifferent  gesture  of 
the  road.”  Those  of  the  middle  bring  to  mind  the  prohibited  joys,  the 
forbidden  city,  the  hidden  name.  The  steles  turned  to  the  West  are 
heroic,  written  in  blood.  Those  turned  to  the  East  sing  deceptive  love. 

“Drawing  up  I  know  not  what.  Casting  the  plaited  basket  of  my  de¬ 
sire  to  the  depths  of  her  eyes,  I  did  not  reach  the  water  lapping  pure  and 
deep.  .  .  . 

“Either  the  basket  was  loosely  plaited,  or  the  cord  too  short ;  or  there 
was  nothing  at  the  bottom .” 

(  Visage  dans  les  yeux .) 

All  invite  the  soul  to  the  same  poetic  oblivion:  “Listen,  in  self- 
abandonment,  to  the  sound  and  to  the  shadow  of  the  sound  in  the  shell 
from  the  sea  into  which  everything  plunges.” 

Stiles  was  dedicated  to  Paul  Claudel — the  homage  of  a  brother 
poet,  not  of  an  imitator.  The  independence  of  Segalen  whose 
Immemoriaux,  published  in  1907,  had  nothing  of  Claudel  about  them, 
breaks  out  in  Peintures,  “a  spectacle  ...  a  parade”  in  which  the 
author  unrolls  before  our  eyes  “long,  sombre  silken  paintings  covered 


300  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

with  soot  and  mirroring  the  earliest  ages.”  And  here  are  the  haunt¬ 
ing  images  of  magic  pictures,  the  powerful  evocations  of  Corteges  et 
Trophee,  the  epic  perspectives  of  dynastic  frescoes.  A  summary  can 
suggest  the  power  and  variety  of  Peintures,  their  accuracy  which 
omits  nothing — not  even,  when  necessary,  “the  brush’s  hesitation” ; 
but  communion  with  this  rich  text  will  alone  unveil  its  ingenious 
novelty.  While  the  Claudel  of  Connaissance  de  VEst  imposes  his 
lyrical  visions  upon  the  reader,  Segalen  wished  his  “game”  to  become 
“a  reciprocal  work.”  Subtly  he  enrols  us  among  “his  companions 
.  .  .  his  accomplices.”  He  demands  our  collaboration :  “You  will  see 
nothing  if  you  remain  thus  spectators  dazzled  by  the  appearance.  Let 
me  lead  you  to  the  depths ;  and  taking  us  by  the  hand,  he  guides  us 
indeed  through  the  swarming  theatres  “coarse  as  life  itself  so  often  in 
its  inborn  love  of  the  boards,”  as  well  as  towards  the  fantasies  and  the 
“landings  in  the  unreal.”  Is  not  moreover  that  Orphee  Roi  which 
was  at  first  “the  Orphic  text  of  a  king  Debussy  would  have 
enthroned,”  another  landing  in  the  ideal?  In  his  second  version — 
the  only  one  which  Segalen  published — this  human  and  mystical 
drama,  a  noble  interpretation  of  the  richest  myth  of  the  “sonorous 
world,”  has  the  grandeur  of  one  of  those  sayings  of  the  “ancient 
speech”  which  the  novelist  of  Les  Immemoriaux  has  magnified. 

The  hieratic  Orphee  Roi  will  fully  satisfy  those  whom  Segalen 
charms  above  all  by  his  aristocratic  reserve  and  his  chivalrous 
generosity.  The  lively  novels  where  he  lays  aside  everything 
hermetic  will  enjoy  a  less  lofty  success.  Les  Immemoriaux ,  a  pic¬ 
ture  of  Tahiti  and  of  the  Maoris,  a  tale  in  which  humour,  satiric 
indignation  and  lyricism  combine  without  conflict,  has  the  richness 
and  the  high  relief  of  the  best  Gauguins.  Rene  Leys,  a  supreme 
evocation  of  the  Imperial  Court  and  of  that  China  he  loved  with  so  in¬ 
telligent  a  passion,  adds  to  these  qualities  the  creation  of  an  elusive 
atmosphere,  charged  with  poetry  and  with  irony,  which  justifies  the 
last  words  of  Peintures:  “So  many  things,  half  seen,  can  never  be 
seen.”  Too  thoroughly  penetrated  with  the  sentiment  of  diversity  to 
believe  naively  that  an  exotic  painting  immediately  dispels  the  mystery, 
Segalen  is  not  an  improviser.  Each  of  his  novels  rests  upon  a  solid 
acquaintance  with  the  country,  with  its  speech,  with  its  history.  The 
art  of  Les  Immemoriaux  and  of  Rene  Leys  masks  a  very  sure  knowl¬ 
edge.  Its  verve  is  never  superficial.  Like  a  fresh  stream,  it  descends 
from  the  mountain  of  the  Steles:  “And,  leaving  thee  for  the  plain, 
how  much  beauty  the  plain  again  has  for  me!”  From  the  height  of 
this  “solid  tempest  shutting  in  the  flight  of  the  clouds  and  my  hopes,” 
the  poet-novelist  had  the  right  to  repeat  the  cry  of  his  Orpheus :  “The 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  301 

work  is  accomplished,  the  work  is  fair.”  Fair,  indeed,  and  of  an  endur¬ 
ing  originality. 

The  work  of  Louis  Bertrand,  a  native  of  Metz  and  an  Algerian 
by  adoption,  presents  a  remarkable  unity.  His  critical  works,  La 
Grece  du  soled  et  des  passages  and  the  important  manifesto  en¬ 
titled  Le  Mirage  oriental  declare  “the  breakdown  of  local  colour” 
in  an  Orient  which  is  “neither  the  fairyland  our  poets  have  described 
nor  the  country  eager  for  modern  civilization  our  Utopists  dream 
of.”  If  he  tolls  the  knell  of  a  poetic  illusion,  it  is  to  make  way  for 
a  reality  which  is  “the  renaissance  of  the  Latin  races  in  French  Af¬ 
rica.”  Bertrand  is  entitled  to  the  double  testimonal  he  offers  him¬ 
self  in  the  preface  to  Villes  d’or:  “I  have  brought  a  new  conception 
of  North  Africa  which  is,  all  told,  but  the  ancient  Roman  province  of 
Africa  ...  I  have  removed  its  Islamic  and  pseudo-Arabic  decora¬ 
tion.”  Les  Villes  d’or  and  Le  Jardin  de  la  mort  describe  the  scene 
of  all  the  dramas  of  the  “old  Latin  imperialism”  from  the  Romans 
down  to  the  adventures  of  the  wagoner  Rafael  or  the  fisherman  Pepete. 
His  Saint  Augustin,  the  life  of  “a  Latin  of  Occitania,”  the  ideal  type 
of  the  African  Latin,  shows  that  in  North  Africa  the  Latin  hero  “has 
never  ceased  to  live,  even  during  the  most  troubled  and  barbarous 
epochs.” 

If  in  our  North  Africa  Bertrand  meets  memories  of  Rome  at  every 
step,  he  also  finds  there  the  memory  of  Flaubert  who  visited  that 
country  and  has  left  admirable  “psychological  rather  than  realistic 
descriptions  of  it,”  says  Bertrand  in  his  Gustave  Flaubert.  And  the 
author  of  Le  Sang  des  races  does  not  dissimulate  his  debt  to  the 
author  of  Salammbo:  “Men  of  every  nation  were  there.”  This  swarm¬ 
ing  of  the  Latin  races  of  which  our  African  Empire  is  the  crucible,  that 
is  what  Louis  Bertrand  excels  in  painting  in  broad  frescoes.  Else¬ 
where  his  technique  is  less  sure,  whether  in  Les  Bains  de  Phalere  the 
Graeco-French  heroine  of  which  does  not  succeed  in  being  enigmatic,  in 
the  dull  story  of  an  old  maid  of  Lorraine,  Mademoiselle  de  Jessincourt, 
in  Le  Rival  de  Don  Juan  where  the  descriptions  of  Seville  are  unable  to 
galvanize  a  tedious  melodrama,  or  lastly  in  L’Infante,  a  spun-out  inci¬ 
dent  of  the  history  of  Cerdagne  under  Louis  XIV.  The  subjects 
adapted  to  Bertrand’s  talent  are  those  which  demand  not  a  concentra¬ 
tion  but  a  dispersion  of  the  interest.  About  the  character  of  the 
carter  Rafael  who  travels  between  Algiers  and  Laghouat,  of  the  beloved 
fisherman  Pepete,  of  the  tribune  Carmelo,  of  the  singer  Cina,  of  Mgr. 
Puig,  he  constructs  vast  picaresque  or  tragic  novels,  Le  Sang  des  races. 
Repute  et  Balthasar,  La  Cma,  in  which  representatives  of  all  the 


302  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Mediterranean  world  jostle  one  another;  and  this  whole  “African 
cycle”  is  animated  by  the  hope  that  the  old  French  civilization  will 
hear,  behind  the  picturesqueness  of  the  spectacle,  the  lesson  of  rejuv¬ 
enation  brought  by  this  robust  barbarism. 

Eugene  Montfort,  too,  has  painted  the  Mediterranean  world ;  but 
the  author  of  Noces  folles  and  of  La  Chanson  de  Naples  regards  Italy, 
Spain  and  Marseilles — those  countries  where  “a  woman  is  a  beautiful, 
radiant  animal” — as  a  peculiarly  propitious  background  for  the  love- 
stories  which  he  says  he  writes  “for  the  boudoir”  ( Le  Chalet  dans  la 
montagne )  or  “for  the  smoking-room”  ( Nidts  d’Espagne) .  In  the 
same  way  the  principal  interest  of  Ferdinant  Duchene’s  Barbary  novel, 
Au  pas  lent  des  Caravanes,  lies  in  a  skilfully  developed  love-drama. 
The  success  which  greeted  Le  Livre  de  Goha  le  Simple,  by  Albert  Ades 
and  Albert  Josipovici,  in  spite  of  its  more  than  Orientally  lazy  lo¬ 
quacity,  shows  that  this  convenient  formula  has  wearied  readers  eager 
for  a  real  change  of  scene. 

The  activity  of  the  brothers  Marius-Ary  Leblond  is  very  diverse 
but  subordinated  to  a  central  idea.  Whether  they  publish  a  colonial 
anthology  or  a  study  on  Leconte  de  Lisle,  Les  Sortileges  (a  novel  of 
races  of  the  Indian  Ocean)  or  L’Oued  (a  novel  of  the  Oran),  their  es¬ 
sential  aim  is  to  make  our  colonies  better  loved.  Born  on  the  island 
of  Reunion,  the  review  which  they  edit  was  called  La  Grande  France 
before  becoming  La  Vie,  and  the  hero  of  En  France  (Prix  Goncourt 
1909)  passed  his  infancy  in  Reunion  before  leaving  for  Paris.  Many 
of  their  books  are  terribly  luxuriant,  written  with  a  haste  which  ex¬ 
cludes  neither  false  Goncourtisms  nor  commonplaces ;  but  their  con¬ 
viction  is  often  persuasive  and  their  Ophelia  contains  episodes  of  a  real 
dramatic  poetry. 

4.  THE  NOVEL  OF  IMAGINATION 

The  imaginative  novel  is  the  realm  in  which  the  taste  for  grandiose 
constructions  can  best  be  gratified.  The  enemies  of  Naturalism  set 
their  hearts  upon  erecting  edifices  as  vast  as  that  of  Les  Rougon- 
Macquart.  We  already  note  the  ruins  of  this  ambitious  effort.  The 
books  of  Jean  Lombard,  L’Agonie  and  Byzance,  are  frankly  unread¬ 
able  and  their  coruscating  ornaments  ill  conceal  their  bad  writing. 
As  to  La  Decadence  latine,  the  ample  ethopee  of  Josephin  Peladan, 
the  Sar  Peladan,  grand-master  of  the  Rose  Croix,  this  now  offers 
little  interest  save  for  patient  lovers  of  the  curious.  They  will  find 
in  it,  side  by  side  with  picturesque  gossip  of  the  time,  a  document 
on  the  Wagnerian  and  mystical  influences  during  the  Symbolist 
epoch,  even  some  witty  and  eloquent  pages;  but  it  calls  for  much 


% 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  303 

curiosity  and  great  patience,  for  even  in  Les  Devotes  d’ Avignon  will  be 
found  the  same  mixture  of  exasperated  Petrarchism  and  Wagnerian 
fake,  of  aspiration  after  impassioned  chastity  and  of  verbal  inconti¬ 
nence. 

Elemir  Bourges  accuses  the  Naturalists  of  having  “belittled  and 
deformed  man.”  He  has  gone  to  school  with  Shakespeare  and  the 
Elizabethans,  reminiscences  of  whom  are  frequent  in  his  work,  giving 
them  sometimes  the  air  of  a  poetic  mosaic.  The  novelist  of  Les  Oiseaux 
s’  envolent  et  les  Fleurs  tombent  delays  very  long,  through  the  adven¬ 
tures  of  a  Russian  Grand  Duke  the  tragic  monotony  of  which  is  not 
very  convincing,  the  moment  for  his  hymn  “of  adoration  to  the 
absolute  Nothingness.”  Le  Crepuscide  des  Dieux,  a  large  fresco  the 
central  figure  in  which  is  a  German  princelet  dethroned  in  1866, 
curiously  combines  the  Gotterddmmerung  and  ’Tis  a  pity  she’s  a 
whore!  A  noble  lyrical  inspiration  fills  La  Nef,  a  prose  poem  whose 
Hellenism  is  perfumed  with  Anglicism  and  which  depicts,  “after  life’s 
fitful  fever,”  the  triumph  of  Prometheus,  like  the  ship  Argo  which, 
“ignorant  of  the  hidden  helm  and  of  the  wind  swelling  her  sails,  be¬ 
lieves  she  steers  herself.” 

Working  in  collaboration  or  separately,  J.  H.  Rosny  aine  and  J.  H. 
Rosny  jeune  have  tried  nearly  every  form  of  fiction — the  social  novel 
( L’lmperieuse  Bonte),  a  picture  of  the  lower-classes  ( Marthe  Bara- 
quin),  vast  contemporary  syntheses  ( Les  Bures  et  les  Impures). 
From  Le  Thermite  to  Torches  et  Lumignons  literary  life  has  found 
in  them  its  annalists ;  but  their  most  attractive  books  are  those  in 
which  their  imagination  has  free  play,  such  as  Les  Xipehuz  and  Le 
Cataclysme  which  justify  J.  H.  Rosny  aine’s  saying:  “Science  is  for 
me  a  poetic  passion.”  Their  domain  is  the  prehistoric  where 
V  amir  eh,  Le  F  elin  geant  and  La  Guerre  du  feu — “a  novel  of  the 
fierce  ages”  which  is,  in  its  own  field,  a  masterpiece — are  situated. 
In  a  style  which  might  readily  be  described  as  quaternary,  they  evoke 
elementary  forces,  enormous  beasts  and  primitive  beings,  indicating 
the  sketch  of  man  in  the  brute  and  showing,  in  Noah  or  Aoun,  the 
awakening  of  mysterious  pity  and  of  human  tenderness. 

The  brilliant  story-teller  of  Saint-Cendre  and  Blancador  V Avanta- 
geux,  Maurice  Maindron,  does  not  stray  into  ages  so  shadow3^.  He 
loves  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  dear  to  the  costume- 
novelists,  and  relates  seductively  the  exploits  of  Ce  Bon  M.  de  V era- 
gues  and  La  Filleule  de  M.  le  Prince.  True  he  has  written  L’Arbre 
de  science,  a  modern  novel;  but  his  real  profession  of  faith  will  be 
found  at  the  beginning  of  the  two-volume  Dans  VInde  du  Sud:  “The 
singular  love  I  have  for  past  ages  is  perhaps  too  exclusive  for  me  to 


304  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

feel,  with  regard  to  the  present,  any  sentiment  other  than  that  of  an 
indifferent  equity.”  The  six  tales  in  Le  Carquois  form  a  sort  of  an¬ 
thology  of  his  tastes  and  an  abstract  of  his  agreeable  work. 

Under  the  collective  title  L’Epopee  franpaise,  George  d’Esparbes  has 
recounted  the  exploits  of  the  warriors  from  Henri  IV  to  Ceux  de  V An 
lJp.  Of  these  dozen  volumes  full  of  go  and  spirit  the  most  justly 
renowned  are  La  Guerre  en  dentelles,  La  Legende  de  VAigle  and  Les 
D  emi-S  olde. 

D’Esparbes  limits  himself  to  stressing  the  picturesque  glamour  of 
the  military  profession  Ernest  Psichari  undertook  to  bring  out  its 
mysticism.  The  work  of  this  writer  killed  in  battle  in  his  thirty-first 
year  constitutes  the  best  document  on  the  generation  which,  before 
being  “sacrificed,”  wished,  under  the  influence  of  Barres  and  of  Peguy, 
to  oppose  the  absence  of  practical  conclusions  in  its  immediate  prede¬ 
cessors  with  some  strong  affirmations  founded  upon  renewed  tradition. 
Of  this  association  of  the  terms  “France”  and  “Christendom,”  of 
this  struggle  ense  et  cruce,  no  champion  was  more  representative  than 
Renan’s  grandson,  “taking  against  his  father  the  side  of  his  fathers”; 
and,  to  define  this  anti-intellectualism  in  love  with  adventure,  we 
must  also  mention  among  its  masters  Bergson  and  Jules  Verne  a  sen¬ 
tence  from  whom  serves  as  motto  for  L’ Appel  des  armes. 

The  protagonist  of  U Appel  des  armes  is  a  captain  of  Colonial  ar¬ 
tillery  who  has  been  weaned  from  the  melancholy  of  Vigny  and  of 
Timoleon  d’Arc  by  the  “atrocious  and  voluptuous  charm  of  the  Sa¬ 
hara”  and  the  pride  of  being  a  conqueror.  His  example  wins  to  the 
same  ideal  the  son  of  an  internationalistic  schoolmaster  who  discovers, 
in  the  barracks  and  on  an  African  expedition,  that  military  grandeur 
transcends  military  servitude.  Psichari  paints  the  development  of 
these  two  characters  in  a  style  which  suggests  Peguy  (to  whom  the 
book  is  dedicated)  and  above  all  Barres  from  whom  he  borrows,  in 
the  psychological  reflections,  that  harsh  present  indicative  re¬ 
flecting  the  tense  will  of  an  observer  who  inexorably  leads  his  puppets 
towards  the  end  he  has  assigned  them. 

L’ Appel  des  armes  was,  moreover — Psichari  warned  his  reader — • 
only  “the  first  stage  of  a  road  which  was  to  lead  him  to  purer  gran¬ 
deurs.”  Le  Voyage  du  centurion  dresses  up  as  a  novel  the  Maure¬ 
tanian  expedition  and  the  progress  of  a  conversion  to  Catholicism  of 
which  Les  Voix  qui  orient  dams  le  desert  is  the  diary.  In  it  the  hero, 
Maxence,  denies  his  Voltairian  father.  Still  stirred  sensually  by  “the 
scent  of  Africa,”  he  feels  even  more  the  spiritual  appeal:  “In  con¬ 
tact  with  the  Arab  he  is  a  Frank.”  His  pride  is  “a  Catholic  pride.” 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  305 

The  radiance  of  love  which  emanates  from  the  person  of  Jesus  and 
which  already  formed  the  supreme  argument  of  the  Pascalian  Mystery 
completes  the  sapping  of  his  resistance.  The  mystic  dialogue  which 
ends  this  book  epitomizes  Psichari’s  evolution.  Moving  in  its  ardent 
simplicity,  it  gives  us  the  right  to  believe  that  its  author  had  obtained 
from  literature  the  only  service  he  asked  of  it,  that  of  clearly  illustrat¬ 
ing  his  arguments  for  living  and  for  dying. 

5.  THE  WAR  NOVEL 

The  “militaristic”  work  of  Peguy  and  of  Psichari  was  not  inhu¬ 
man  but  gravely  evoked  urgent  problems.  In  the  same  way,  the  war 
novel  was  not,  on  the  whole,  warlike.  One  would  have  had  to  be  blind 
to  the  duration  and  the  immensity  of  the  carnage  to  dare  rejoice  in  it. 
The  books  which  were  popular  from  1917  to  1918  show  rather  clearly 
the  fluctuations  of  opinion  during  that  period.  None  of  them  is  guilty 
of  sacrilege  against  humanity. 

Gaspard  does  not  transcend  the  superficial  facility  which  charac¬ 
terizes  Rene  Benjamin’s  other  productions.  Everything  about  it  is 
conventional:  the  war  and  its  asides,  the  soldiers  and  their  nurses; 
but  the  character  of  Gaspard,  snail-merchant  in  the  Rue  de  la  Gaite, 
joking,  heroic  Parigot ,  is  one  of  those  which,  since  Gavroche,  are 
sure  of  universal  sympathy.  In  1915,  the  public  demanded  a  relaxa¬ 
tion.  It  was  found  in  this  unpretentious  journalism. 

Soon  appeared  the  book  which  was  the  best-seller  of  our  times :  Le 
Feu  by  Henri  Barbusse.  Twenty  years  earlier  Barbusse  had  made 
his  debut  with  a  volume  of  verse,  Les  Pleureuses,  which  showed  a 
sensibility  easily  stirred  by  the  most  fugitive  shades  of  modern  reality 
but  was  unable  to  express  them  in  a  definitive  form.  The  poem  La 
Lettre: 

Je  t’ecris  et  la  lampe  ecoute. 

L’horloge  attend  a  petits  coups ; 

Je  vais  fermer  les  yeux  sans  doute 

Et  je  vais  m’endormir  de  nous  .  .  . 

shows  clearly  enough  the  limits  of  this  familiar  lyricism.  In  L’Enfer 
Barbusse  posed  as  a  successor  of  Zola  and  this  novel  contains  some 
powerful  descriptions ;  but  the  writer  had,  at  the  same  time,  yielded 
to  the  desire  of  inditing  a  sort  of  philosophical  compendium  of  his 
epoch.  This  was  a  misconception  of  his  own  talent.  If  there  exist 
minds  for  which  ideas  count  only  according  to  their  abstract  value, 
Barbusse  represents  the  other  extreme.  He  apprehends  the  senti¬ 
mental  radiation  of  ideas.  Before  an  intellectual  notion,  he  shows 


306  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

all  the  reactions  of  a  generous  heart  but  never  paints  them  in 
their  impartial  nudity.  The  thought  of  the  author  of  L’Enfer  equals 
in  its  simplicity  that  of  the  Couturiere  of  whom  he  has  sung: 

Elle  croit  a  la  beaute, 

Elle  croit  a  Vharmonie, 

Elle  se  sent  infinie, 

Les  levres  dans  la  clarte. 

We  have  recalled  the  enormous  success  of  Le  Few.  It  was  perhaps 
due  at  the  start,  to  its  extraordinary  accent  of  sincerity.  For  the  first 
time  a  writer  brought  his  readers,  without  any  literary  interposition, 
the  truth,  an  exact  description  of  life  in  the  trenches.  This  popu¬ 
larity  however  was  not  a  surprise.  Le  Feu,  in  fact,  unites  all  the 
qualities  of  Barbusse’s  humanitarian  realism.  In  this  “diary  of  a 
squad”  he  has  almost  always  forbidden  himself  to  go  beyond  his 
personal  experience  and  the  point  of  view  of  the  simple  soldier.  Thence 
the  intensity  of  the  pages  in  which,  recounting  a  day  without  inci¬ 
dent,  a  task  or  an  attack,  he  evokes,  with  the  relief  of  their  concrete 
precision,  the  duration,  the  mud,  the  elementary  instincts.  His  emo¬ 
tion,  deep  enough  to  disdain  every  artifice,  revives  with  a  virile  sym- 
path}r  or  a  tender  humour  the  memory  of  his  comrades  in  arms  who 
were  not  heroes  but,  more  gloriously,  men.  Even  the  harsh  satire 
which  stigmatizes  the  division  of  the  Fatherland  into  “two  foreign 
countries,  the  front  and  the  rear,”  is  not  a  factitious  opposition.  It 
is  born  of  a  hundred  little  facts  which  keep  their  force.  Above  all, 
it  is  dominated  by  the  poignant  sentiment  that,  if  the  civilians  quickly 
forget  what  the  combatants  suffered  for  them,  these  last  themselves 
will  not  keep  a  memory  of  it  intact :  “One  is  full  of  the  emotion  of 
reality  at  the  moment,  and  one  is  right ;  but  all  that  wears  itself  out  in 
you.” 

Le  Feu  represented  the  war  in  all  its  horror,  more  hateful  still  be¬ 
cause  painted  with  this  tragic  sobriety.  Barbusse  would  have  been 
lacking  in  honesty  had  he  not  sought  what  remedy  would  avoid  the 
return  of  the  “frightful  things  done  by  thirty  million  men  who  do  not 
want  them.”  Some  pages  of  Le  Feu  distinctly  indicated  his  pacificism. 
A  dawn  of  hope  rose  over  this  sinister  battle-field.  It  was  therefore 
inevitable  that  Barbusse  should  appear  to  many  veterans  as  a  guide 
and  that  it  should  be  impossible  for  him  to  shun  this  honour.  Per¬ 
suaded  by  Zola’s  example  that  the  novel  can  become  an  instrument 
of  political  apostleship,  he  wrote  Clarte  in  which  the  romantic  plot 
badly  veils  his  intention  of  proving  that,  according  to  the  conclusion 
of  Les  Paroles  d'un  combattant ,  “the  only  human  yoice  which  har- 


•s 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  307 

monizes  with  nature  itself,  the  thinking  music  of  the  dawn  and  the 
sun,  is  the  song  of  the  International.”  Every  judgment  on  Barbusse’s 
last  books  depends  upon  the  opinion  one  professes  concerning  the 
militant  activity  to  which  he  has  subordinated  everything. 

It  is,  on  the  contrary,  the  writer,  not  the  partisan,  who  must  be 
loved  in  Georges  Duhamel  whose  Vie  des  Martyrs  confounded  all 
those — “members  of  the  Institut,  actresses  of  the  cafe-concert,  politi¬ 
cians  and  stars  of  prostitution” — who  “have  worked  to  give  us  a 
congruous  and  definitive  literary  picture  of  war.”  He  opposed  to 
them  “the  sole  thing  certain  at  this  moment  of  the  century” :  human 
suffering.  He  showed  death  “intimately  mingled  with  the  things  of 
life.”  He  was  at  one  and  the  same  time  the  doctor  (“Under  their 
bandages  there  are  wounds  which  you  cannot  imagine”)  and  the  poet 
for  whom  nothing  is  without  importance:  “Let  us  lose  nothing  of 
their  humble  talk,  let  us  describe  their  slightest  gestures.”  Without 
declamation,  he  painted  the  tragedies  and  the  delicacies  of  the  hospital. 
Without  generalization,  he  showed  all  the  shades  of  emotion  up  to  the 
“frail  bridge”  cast  between  him  and  a  wounded  German  by  a  motif  of 
the  Eroica.  With  a  powerful  sobriety  he  demanded  that  the  memory 
of  so  much  pain  should  not  die.  He  appealed  by  his  prayers  to  “the 
union  of  pure  hearts  for  the  redemption  of  the  unhappy  world.” 
Civilisation  did  more  than  continue  Vie  des  Martyrs.  It  completed  it. 
The  comic  element  in  Un  Enterrement  and  the  admirable  Cuirassier 
Cuvelier  appeared  more  gruesome  there,  the  revolt  in  Les  Maquignons 
and  Discipline  sharper ;  and  Duhamel  presented  more  categorically 
the  problem  of  civilization:  “If  it  be  not  in  the  heart  of  man,  well, 
then,  it  is  nowhere.” 

“It  is  the  heart  that  should  be  addressed”:  “ La  Possession  du 
monde  repeated  it  and,  what  is  more  dangerous,  undertook  to  prove 
it.  This  book  is  a  sort  of  Tresor  des  humbles  in  which  Duhamel,  re¬ 
membering  religious  teachings,  the  Stoics,  the  Mystics  and  Bergson, 
preaches  love  and  “the  inner  life.”  In  it  he  finds  the  assurance  that 
our  existence  has  as  its  aim  that  happiness  which  is  neither  pleasure, 
nor  well-being,  nor  enjoyment,  nor  voluptuousness.”  Happiness  is 
based  upon  possession,  that  is  to  say,  upon  the  perfect  and  profound 
knowledge  of  the  world,  of  others,  of  the  lyrical  life.  The  author 
seemed  to  devote  himself  to  a  prophetic  theoretical  apostleship  of  the 
“heart’s  reign.” 

Duhamel  is  however  too  perspicacious  an  artist  to  sacrifice  to  dog¬ 
matism  his  talent  as  a  story-teller  which  was  found  again  in  Les 
Hommes  abandonnes,  a  series  of  tales  dedicated  to  the  study  of  “those 


308  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

primitive  passions  which,  like  great  hunted  wild  beasts,  have  with¬ 
drawn  to  the  depth  of  the  forests,  but  await,  to  emerge,  merely  a 
weakening  of  the  world,  a  moment  of  anguish,  a  storm.”  The  type 
of  these  abandoned  men  is  Salavin  who  reappears  here  and  who 
was  already,  with  less  contrivance,  the  hero  of  Confession  de  minuit 
where  he  confessed  his  sad  story  to  the  “stout  shaven  chap  with 
eye-glasses  and  a  brown  overcoat.”  In  Salavin  Duhamel  describes 
a  mind  in  which  unconscious  activity  prevails  over  conscious  thought, 
which  believes  itself  responsible  for  all  the  criminal  suggestions 
it  has  not  immediately  rejected.  Not  possessing  the  counterpoise 
of  an  intellectual  energy  to  re-establish  the  values,  he  is  a  victim 
of  automatism  and  keeps  in  the  foreground  of  his  meditation  what 
others  drive  far  from  them.  One  should  not  expect  from  this  de¬ 
liberately  limited  portrait  the  immense  cross-currents  of  humanity 
which,  at  Dostoievski’s  breath,  perturb  the  troubled  weakness  of  sim¬ 
ilar  souls ;  but  nowhere  has  Duhamel’s  art  better  declared  its  power  in 
turning  the  reveries  of  the  inner  life  into  “events,”  in  soberly  surround¬ 
ings  an  insignificant  character  with  a  halo  of  fraternal  sympathy. 

Les  Croix  de  hois  by  Roland  Dorgeles  appeared  as  a  sort  of  final 
state  of  the  war  novel.  No  combatant’s  testimony  had  offered 
for  its  heroes,  chiefs  and  soldiers,  intellectuals  and  workmen,  the  wide 
impartiality  which  distinguishes  the  robust  narratives  in  this  book  and 
in  Le  Cabaret  de  la  Belle  Femme.  The  chapters  describing  life  in 
the  trenches  and  the  attacks  equalled  the  tragic  pages  of  Le  Feu; 
but  the  author  never  pretended  to  generalize.  He  did  not  exclude 
the  “divine  foolery”  which  fortified  his  comrades.  His  most  vigorous 
strokes  revived  the  realism  of  the  combatants :  “The  Marne  is  a  com¬ 
bine  which  brought  fifteen  sous  apiece  to  the  boys  who  won  it.”  He 
courageously  stresses  the  “terrible  grandeur”  of  this  confession  of 
Sulphart’s :  “It’s  a  victory  for  me,  because  I  got  out  of  it  alive.” 
It  would  be  hard  to  find  in  all  the  literature  of  the  war  a  simpler  and 
more  complete  summing-up  of  the  sentiments  it  provoked  among  the 
poilus  than  the  thirty  pages  of  Victoire  which  recount  the  assault, 
the  departure  from  the  trenches,  the  glorious  procession,  the  start  of 
pride  finally  which  justifies  a  brief  commentary:  “Come,  there’ll  al¬ 
ways  be  wars,  always,  always.”  This  sober  realism  is  indeed  Dor¬ 
geles’  master-quality.  Saint  Magloire  in  which  he  narrates  the  failure 
of  an  apostle  in  post-war  society  becomes  journalism  as  soon  as 
the  author  no  longer  observes  in  it  that  discipline  which  has  given 
Les  Croix  d&  hois,  so  spontaneous  a  book,  a  sort  of  style. 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  309 

After  these  capital  works,  the  open-minded  reader  will  not  refuse 
to  hear  other  testimony.  La  Flamme  aw  poing  by  Henry  Malherbe, 
will  give  him  the  notes  of  a  cultivated  combatant  grouped  about  three 
themes:  Memory,  Love  and  Death.  In  Nach  Paris  Louis  Dumur, 
formerly  known  for  amusing  pictures  of  Genevese  Calvinism,  has  drawn 
up  an  indictment  against  German  atrocities.  Jean  des  Vignes  Rouges 
has,  in  Andre  Rieu,  officier  de  France,  wished  to  give  the  point  of  view 
of  the  chiefs,  while  Raymond  Lefebvre  and  Paul  Vaillant-Couturier, 
authors  of  La  Guerre  des  soldats,  outdid  Barbusse’s  anti-militarism. 
Adrien  Bertrand,  in  the  narratives  and  conversations  of  L’Appel  du 
sol,  as  well  as  in  the  dialogues  of  U  Or  age  sur  le  jardin  de  Candide,  has 
imparted  the  confidences  of  an  agrege  de  philosophic,  disciple  of  Ana- 
tole  France,  who  feels  himself  “a  cell  of  the  nation,”  hears  “the  call  of 
the  French  soil”  and  dies  as  a  hero  “that  France  may  continue.” 
Paul  Reboux,  whose  versatile  inspiration  had  turned  successively  to 
Paris,  Naples,  Brittany  and  Spain,  wrote  in  two  volumes  Les  Dra- 
peaux,  a  work  of  anti-militaristic  propaganda  which  tries  to  annex 
the  science  of  statistics  to  the  novel.  Perhaps  he  brought  to  loading 
the  dice  a  little  of  that  skill  which  made  him  baptize  as  a  “Negro 
novel”  his  Romulus  Coucou  whose  hero  is  a  mulatto.  In  Indice  33, 
Alexandre  Arnoux  has  constructed  a  dramatic  narrative.  His  talent 
as  a  story-teller  is  shown  in  the  military  tales  of  Le  Cabaret  as  well 
as  in  La  Nuit  de  Saint-B arnabe ,  a  lively  document  on  the  imagination 
of  the  Parisian  street-urchins  in  1920.  Marcel  Berger,  whose  VHomme 
enchaine  had  treated  a  complex  problem  clumsily  but  loyally,  de¬ 
scribed,  in  Jean  Darboise,  the  grey  life  of  the  men  in  the  auxiliary 
service.  In  Les  Dieux  tremblent,  he  tried  to  materialize  the  vengeful 
hatred  of  a  wounded  man  for  those  spared  by  the  storm  but  drowned 
this  interesting  idea  in  a  series  of  melodramatic  incidents.  Paul 
Geraldy,  with  that  art  of  reducing  every  lofty  subject  to  a  drawing¬ 
room  dialogue  which  is  demonstrated  by  his  Noces  d’ argent,  described, 
in  La  Guerre,  Madame,  a  day  in  Paris  in  the  autumn  of  1915,  sug¬ 
gesting  the  greatness  of  the  events,  representing  the  snobbishness  of 
certain  circles  with  a  faithful  facility.  He  did  not  exhaust  his  sub¬ 
ject,  since  Maurice  Level  was  able  to  write  Mado  ou  la  Guerre  a  Paris, 
which  keeps  the  promise  of  its  title.  A  renewal  of  Orientalism  might 
have  been  expected  from  the  expedition  to  Salonica.  A  Salonique, 
sous  Vasil  des  Dieux  by  J.  J.  Frappa  does  not  lure  us  with  any  poetic 
mirage.  As  for  the  stay  of  the  Anglo-Saxons  in  France,  Marcel 
Prevost  took  care  that  at  least  a  comic  memory  of  it  should  remain. 
Mon  cher  Tommy  left  them  the  image  of  a  French  girl  for  their  use, 


310  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

not  omitting,  it  is  true,  to  teach  them  that,  in  certain  trails,  “one 
needs  to  appeal  to  all  his  British  firmness  to  resist  the  decree  of  the 
divine  will.”  After  so  much  vain  literature,  better  justice  will  be 
done  to  the  sober  realism  of  Corporal  Georges  Gaudy  in  L’Agonie  du\ 
Mont-Renaud,  to  the  amiable  mixture  of  humour  and  wit  in  Les  Si¬ 
lences  du  Colonel  Bramble  and  Discours  du  Docteur  O'Grady  by  An¬ 
dre  Maurois,  to  the  savoury  verve  of  Pierre  Chaine,  author  of  the 
Memoir es  d'un  Rat  and  of  Les  Comment aires  de  Ferdinand,  as  well  as 
to  the  ironic  narrations  of  life  in  a  depot  which  Jean  Galtier-Boissiere, 
one  of  the  editors  of  Le  Crapouillot,  has  collected  in  Loin  de  la 
Rifflette. 

6.  THE  SOCIAL  NOVEL:  OBSERVATION  AND  SATIRE 

The  social  novel  forms  part  of  the  Naturalistic  heritage.  It  stems 
from  the  Goncourts  and  Zola  as  much  as  from  Flaubert  and  Balzac. 
The  example  of  Henry  Ceard  shows  this  relationship.  His  most  char¬ 
acteristic  work,  the  huge  Terrains  a  vendre  au  bord  de  la  mer,  reviews 
all  classes  of  contemporary  society  in  a  Breton  landscape  dishonoured 
by  the  incurable  baseness  of  its  inhabitants.  All  the  characters, 
from  the  most  heroic  to  the  vilest,  move  on  in  it  to  the  downfall  of 
their  desires;  and  this  pessimistic  fresco  liquidates  Naturalism  and 
Wagnerism  in  the  slime. 

Gustave  Geoff roy  has  given,  in  L’Enferme,  a  vivid  biography  of 
Blanqui.  His  Apprentice,  a  convincing  account  of  the  youth  of  an 
honest  Belleville  girl  during  the  war  of  1870,  the  Commune  and  the 
first  years  of  the  Republic,  is  dedicated  “to  the  girls  of  Paris  in  token 
of  a  barbarous  epoch.”  1  He  seems  to  judge  literature  according  to 
its  value  as  propaganda,  rather  than  on  its  strictly  literary  merits. 
It  is  thus  not  surprising,  that  his  vote,  as  president,  caused  the 
Prix  Goncourt  to  be  given  to  Rene  Maran’s  Batouala  in  which  the 
Negro  social  question  is  presented  in  a  jargon  which  one  believed  to 
be  reserved  for  parodying  translations  of  Russian  novels. 

The  art  of  Paul  and  Victor  Margueritte  is  suppler.  Under 
the  title  Une  Epoque  they  attempted- — dedicating  it  to  their  father, 
General  Margueritte — a  vast  picture  of  the  events  of  1870—71  in 
which  the  novel  was  to  serve  history.  Their  Desastre  opposes  the 
sombre  epic  of  La  Debacle  with  a  series  of  pictures  the  dispersion  of 
which  is  not  unfaithful  to  its  design.  Separated,  the  two  brothers 
have  described  their  age  in  many  novels  and  stories  without  recaptur¬ 
ing,  even  in  the  ambitious  J omr  and  in  La  Gargonne  which  is  intended 
to  be  “daring,”  the  restrained  emotion  which  distinguished  La  Force 

i  The  sequel  to  this  work,  Cecile  Pommier,  has  since  appeared  in  1923.  Tr. 


311 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL 

des  choses.  The  Marguerittes’  weakness  is  the  absence  in  their  books 
of  an  original  form.  They  never  cease  writing  “like  everybody  else.” 
Their  best  book  which  is  unquestionably  Poum,  the  story  of  a  little 
boy,  has  the  same  likeable  qualities  which  have  assured  a  public  for 
Mon  Petit  Trott  by  Andre  Lichtenberger.  In  Poum  the  spirit  is 
more  sparkling,  freed  from  edifying  intentions.  There  never  appears 
in  it  any  of  that  insipid  tenderness,  full  of  artifice  and  devoid  of  art, 
which  makes  Paul  Cazin’s  Decadi  the  type  of  book  not  to  be  in¬ 
troduced  into  a  child’s  library. 

Margueritte  and  Lichtenberger  have  attempted  this  study  of  human 
life  in  the  infantile  microcosm  from  a  bourgeois  point  of  view.  Others 
have  tried  to  give  a  more  popular  picture  of  it.  La  Maternelle,  by 
Leon  Frappie,  has  as  its  heroine  a  teacher  who  writes  “the  diary  of 
her  school  life  in  a  poor  quarter,  somewhat  different  from  a  working¬ 
men’s  quarter  properly  speaking;”  but  the  sentimental  reveries  and 
the  description  of  the  rivalries  between  university  castes  unfortu¬ 
nately  stifle  precise  observation.  Under  the  general  title  of  L’Epopee 
au  Faubourg,  Alfred  Machard  has  made  himself  historian  of  Bout  de 
Bibi,  the  bad  boy,  of  Trique,  Pancucule  and  their  associates,  of 
Trinite  Tbelemaque  and  of  the  girls  of  the  Communale  in  the  Rue 
Plumette.  In  La  Guerre  des  Momes  he  has  shown  the  most  tragic 
events  utilized  by  their  fertile  imagination.  In  Popaul  et  Virginie  he 
has  related  the  idyll  of  a  ten-year  old  faubourien  and  of  a  little  Bel¬ 
gian  girl,  and  there  is  certainly  found  in  all  these  works  the  inevitable 
dosing  of  humour  and  sentimentality,  but  one  would  seek  in  vain  the 
relief  which  makes  Poil  de  Carotte  rival  Poulbot’s  most  living  images. 
Nor  has  Gaston  Chereau  achieved  this  creation  of  a  type  in  his  long 
and  melodramatic  Champi-Tortu  which  is  chiefly  valuable  because  of 
its  details  of  Vendean  atmosphere  and  those  qualities  of  delicate  ob¬ 
servation  which  give  charm  to  Monseigneur  voyage  and  Les  Gra/ndes 
Epoques  de  M.  Thebault,  rather  ambitiously  styled  “essays  in  bour¬ 
geois  psychology” — a  title  which  would  weigh  less  heavily  upon 
Valentine  Pacqualt,  Cherau’s  best  novel  for  the  faithful  painting  of 
several  provincial  milieux  about  an  uneven  Bovary.  A  more  faithful 
interpretation  of  the  child’s  soul  will  be  found  in  Andre  Lafon’s 
L’Eleve  Gilles  where  the  shadow  of  a  family  drama  sharpens  the  nar¬ 
rator’s  sincerity  without  warping  it,  and  above  all  in  Le  Grand 
Meaulnes,  by  Allain  Fournier,  a  provincial  novel  if  one  likes,  but  a 
novel  of  adventure  also.  With  a  moving  delicacy  it  evokes  the  mys¬ 
terious  aspirations  of  an  adolescence  whose  scruples  go  so  far  as  to 
t  sacrifice  to  its  dream  the  finally  conquered  happiness ;  and  to  these 
will  be  added  Le  Sourire  lqlesse  in  which  Albert  Thierry  has  described 


312  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

with  a  tender  harshness  the  troubles  and  the  revolts  of  this  exacting 

age  before  impure,  complex  life. 

The  adolescent  novel  has  recently  acquired  a  high  documentary 
value.  In  1922  Jacques  de  Lacretelle  published  Silbermann  the 
rather  conventional  plot  of  which  is  merely  a  pretext  for  showing  the 
reactions  of  a  young  Catholic  and  a  young  Protestant  towards  a 
young  Jew  who  adopts  alternately  all  the  attitudes  Christian  novelists 
are  accustomed  to  expect  of  his  race.  The  same  year  Jacques  Sintral 
(who  is  also  the  economist  Fabre-Luce)  showed,  in  La  Ville  eternelle, 
the  double  life,  political  and  aesthetic,  imaginative  and  dry,  of  a 
young  diplomatist,  with  his  mistress,  “exploiting  all  the  sentiment  they 
had  with  all  the  resources  of  their  intelligence.”  In  1923,  Raymond 
Radiguet  made  the  mistake,  in  Le  Diable  aw  corps,  of  stretching  a 
short  story  subject  into  a  novel,  but  had  also  the  skill  to  paint  an 
adolescent  engaged  in  a  man’s  drama.  Jean  Cocteau’s  Grand  Ecart 
described,  amid  many  mots  some  of  which  are  witty,  the  sentimental 
education  at  Paris  of  a  youth  who  belongs  to  “the  race  of  window- 
panes”  and  lets  himself  be  marked  by  a  woman  “of  the  race  of 
diamonds.”  And  perhaps  these  books  would  be  better  assorted  among 
the  analytical  novels  did  there  not  ring  in  them  a  common  appeal  to 
a  new  Barres. 

Will  this  role  be  reserved  for  Henry  de  Montherlant?  He  aspired 
to  fill  Chateaubriand’s  and  Barres’  place  as  early  as  La  Releve  dw 
matin,  in  1920.  In  this  first  symphony  he  exalted  adolescence,  “the 
ungrateful  age,  the  age  of  the  soul  .  .  .  the  zenith  of  life.”  When 
he  said  “boy,”  a  pride  thrilled  in  his  voice.  On  his  return  from  the 
war,  he  dictated  to  educators  their  duty  which  is  “to  make  live,”  to 
subordinate  everything  to  the  young,  who  are  the  real  beings,  not  art 
objects,  but  the  future.  His  originality,  indicated  by  the  Dialogue 
with  Gerard  (egotist  and  rightly  hard,  “before  him  everything  be¬ 
comes  clear;  he  is  like  death”),  blossoms  in  Le  Songe,  a  spirited  book, 
charged  with  influences  from  Epictetus  to  Claudel,  but  one  in  which 
was  revealed  a  soul.  He  himself  stressed  in  it  “what  was  singularly 
in  his  genius,  comradeship”  and  an  “irreducible  opposition  between 
the  order  of  sport  and  the  order  of  the  heart.”  He  does  not  dissemble 
the  “obtuse  and  carnal”  element  in  his  ideas  and  the  fact  that  reality 
always  remains  “a  little  secondary  for  him.”  Catholic,  he  sees  in  the 
Roman  Church  the  continuer  of  the  Caesarian  tradition;  but,  he  adds, 
“great  Pan  is  not  dead,  it  is  the  Church  which  mounts  guard  over 
him,  and  in  this  claim  of  the  passions  he  meets  the  Catholic  Mauriac 
whose  uneven  Le  Fleuve  de  few  contains  several  strong  scenes.  The 


•s 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  318 

sensuality  of  Montherlant,  of  his  Alban  who  wishes  “to  make  use  of 
beings,”  of  his  Dominique  “overwhelmed  by  her  body,”  is  more 
ardently  lyrical,  at  once  in  its  movement  and  in  its  search  for  a 
discipline,  for  that  “helmeted  sweetness”  of  which  he  prophesies  the 
future. 

Paul  Adam’s  style  has  been  reproached  with  its  massive  violence 
combining  the  exasperated  impressionism  of  the  Goncourts,  the 
desire  to  render  with  a  single  stroke  the  manifold  details  which 
charge  a  visual  imagination,  and  the  desire  to  give  his  novels  a 
moving-picture  movement.  Adam  explained  this  in  a  letter  to 
Faguet:  “When  you  reproach  me  with  having  used  forty  words 
instead  of  one,  you  refuse  to  recognize  that  I  have  tried  to  express 
simultaneously  the  gesture,  the  thought,  the  sight,  the  unconscious 
reflex,  the  divination  of  the  near  or  immediate  future,  the  senti¬ 
ments  perceived  in  the  character’s  interlocutors  and  according  to 
his  particular  perception,  finally  the  lines  of  the  setting,  of  the 
landscape  or  the  agitation  of  the  crowd,  etc.,  etc.” — a  loyal  justifica¬ 
tion  since,  in  adding  two  etcs.,  to  his  enumeration,  Adam  admits  the 
necessity  for  the  writer  to  suggest  still  more  than  he  expresses.  Hav¬ 
ing  defined  style  “as  the  power  to  evoke,”  he  has  the  right  to  count 
upon  his  reader’s  not  quarreling  with  him  as  to  his  means  of  evoking. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  are  authorized  to  hope  he  will  vary  them  accord¬ 
ing  to  the  diverse  realities  he  aspires  to  evoke.  Now  Paul  Adam,  a 
prisoner  of  his  style  which  was  probably  much  more  spontaneous  than 
deliberate,  uses  the  same  means  to  paint  a  crowd  and  a  consciousness. 
It  is  not  surprising  that  the  powerful  portrayer  of  Irene  et  les  Eunu- 
ques,  of  Le  Trust  and  of  the  tetralogy  of  La  Force  should  have  failed 
so  completely  in  the  psychological  novel,  Stephanie. 

Adam  had  begun  with  Chair  molle,  in  the  Naturalist  group.  He 
traversed  Symbolism  as  well.  He  threw  himself  into  politics,  was  a 
Boulangist,  an  Anarchist  and  a  Socialist.  He  owes  his  value  as  a 
social  novelist  to  this  double  experiment.  Les  Ceeurs  nouveaux  and 
Le  Mystere  des  Foules  relate  his  political  disappointments.  The  sec¬ 
ond  of  these  books  also  sets  forth  his  theory  of  “the  emotion  of 
thought”  by  which  he  breaks  with  the  school  of  Zola.  For,  though  he, 
too,  paints  broad,  popular  frescoes,  he  aims  at  showing  the  crowds 
acting  under  the  influence  of  Ideas  and  of  Forces.  Le  Trust  thus  un¬ 
veils  the  formidable  strength  of  the  money  powers,  of  the  Numbers 
which  overwhelm  even  their  pretended  masters.  He  undertakes  to 
prove  that  strength  should  and  can  be  the  slave  of  the  generous  aspira¬ 
tions  which  have  reared  civilization. 


314  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

After  his  electoral  failure  in  Lorraine,  Adam  turned  to  the  past, 
questioned  his  dead.  In  his  family  he  discovered  the  military  souvenirs 
which  he  novelized  in  La  Force,  L’Enfant  d’Austerlitz,  La  Ruse,  Au 
Soleil  de  Juillet,  Le  Temps  et  la  Vie,  the  epic  of  French  liberalism, 
traced  “the  history  of  an  ideal  through  the  ages,”  showed  how  the 
task  of  the  Romans  was  assumed  by  the  Revolution  and  carried  to  com¬ 
pletion  by  the  Emperor,  “thanks  to  the  soldiers  of  Mithra”  whose  ef¬ 
forts  were  thwarted  by  his  parvenu  ambition.  It  was  a  short-lived  de¬ 
feat  since,  through  the  underhand  struggles  of  the  Congregation  and 
of  the  Carbonari,  in  spite  of  the  apparent  triumph  of  the  “prince  of 
the  banks,”  Omer  Hericourt  discerned  at  last  “what  his  Latin  race 
owed  to  the  memory  of  Rome  and  the  divinity  of  the  Law.” 

Thenceforth  the  social  novelist  became  a  prophet  of  the  Latin  spirit. 
At  the  same  time  he  took  over  the  succession  of  Flaubert.  He  sought 
a  Carthage  in  Byzantium,  transposing  to  the  novel  Irene’s  great  con¬ 
ception  :  “The  Western  and  Eastern  Empires  must  unite.”  In  La 
Villa  inconnue  he  magnified  the  work  of  our  colonial  troops  and  their 
chiefs.  Author  of  five  volumes  of  essays  on  moral  problems,  he 
preached  an  ideal  of  love-communion:  “To  feel  that,  if  one  dies,  one 
will  go  on  living  in  the  other.”  Against  Nietzsche  in  Le  Serpent  noir, 
against  Moliere  in  Stephanie,  he  reared  the  great  Latin  idea,  the  con¬ 
ception  of  “interdependence  and  of  the  patriotism  of  reasoned  union,” 
of  the  sacrifice  of  the  individual  to  the  race  already  asserted  in  La 
Bataille  d'Uhde:  “Man  must  no  longer  be  considered,  but  the  race. 
The  race  remains  the  only  individual  whose  life  and  glory  are  of 
importance.” 

Such  are  the  main  ideas  of  this  curious  mind  fed  on  esoteric  doc¬ 
trines,  of'  this  indefatigable  worker.  He  is  not  one  of  our  great 
novelists.  Would  his  most  zealous  supporters  dare  reread  La  Ruse 
after  Le  Rouge  et  le  Noir ?  He  strove  however  to  free  the  novel  from 
the  Naturalistic  rut  and  succeeded  sometimes — like  Zola — through 
the  epic  narrative,  sometimes,  as  in  La  Bataille  d’Uhde,  by  the 
constructive  effort  of  an  invention  at  once  ample  and  minute,  some¬ 
what  analogous  to  the  imagination  of  the  military  chiefs  he  cele¬ 
brated;  and  his  victories,  like  theirs,  always  drag,  behind  their  bar¬ 
barous  magnificence,  the  weight  of  vast  sacrifices. 

Grouping  Lucien  Descaves’  books  without  taking  into  account  the 
order  of  their  publication,  one  would  also  obtain  the  history  of  an 
ideal — of  the  revolutionary  ideal  throughout  the  nineteenth  century. 
LTmagier  d'Epinal  paints  the  sentimental  survival  of  Napoleonic  en¬ 
thusiasm  under  the  Restoration,  the  July  Monarchy  and  the  Second 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  315 

Empire,  while  tracing  the  career  of  an  engraver  who  was  no  artist 
but  an  honest  craftsman.  La  Colonne  is  dedicated  “to  the  descend¬ 
ants  of  the  heroes  of  the  Commune”  who  pulled  down  the  Vendome 
Column,  as  an  “encouragement  to  begin  again.”  These  veterans  of 
the  Commune  are  likened  by  Descaves  to  the  grognards  of  the  Empire 
and  to  the  pensioners :  “One  always  returns  from  a  pilgrimage  to 
the  Column  when  one  has  the  religion  of  a  flag,  whichever  it  may  be,” 
he  writes  in  Philemon,  viewx  de  la  vieille.  Sows -offs  is  a  sinister  pic¬ 
ture  of  the  horrors  of  the  life  of  non-commissioned  officers  in  peace 
time.  In  it  are  seen  the  hardness,  the  low  debauchery,  the  exploitation 
of  women,  blackmailing  and  theft,  “the  vilenesses  which  can  be  en¬ 
gendered  by  the  sheathed  sabre  and  the  easy  advancement,  the  species 
of  immunity  they  confer  upon  their  holders.”  Oiseaux  de  passage 
marks  the  point  of  contact  between  the  revolt  of  Western  idealism 
and  the  revolt  of  Slav  mysticism. 

Among  all  these  passionate,  spirited  stories,  spare  of  ornament  how¬ 
ever  and  deriving  their  tragedy  from  a  realism  which  does  not  deform 
reality,  Philemon,  vieux  de  la  vieille  must  be  put  in  a  class  by  itself. 
“To  your  veterans,  Republic  of  workers,  these  bulletins  of  their  Grand 
Amiee,”  announces  the  author.  With  an  ardent,  lucid  sympathy,  he 
has  collected  the  memories  of  the  humble  Communards  concerning  the 
struggle  of  1871  and  the  exile  to  which  they  were  condemned  for 
years.  He  has  thus  rendered  the  most  moving  homage  to  the  revolu¬ 
tionary  faith,  to  the  dignity  of  their  obscure  lives.  No  noble  cause 
ever  had  more  need  in  its  upholder  of  that  firmness  of  style  and  of 
emotion  whereby  Descaves  has  given  the  lie  to  the  double  legend  of 
the  Naturalist  as  a  bad  writer  and  a  muckraker. 

The  best  tribute  to  the  memory  of  John-Antoine  Nau  (1860-1918) 
is  Lucien  Descaves’  preface  to  the  new  edition  of  Force  ennemie  which 
obtained  the  first  Prix  Goncourt  (1903).  Nau  is,  in  fact,  a  pupihof 
the  naturalists.  His  Preteur  d'amowr  relates  the  monotonous  series  of 
amours  of  one  of  those  failures  whom  they  love  to  paint.  Christobal 
le  poete  recounts  the  education  of  a  little  thief  in  the  disreputable 
Algerian  milieu  with  Huysmans-like  irony.  Force  ennemie  remains  the 
most  interesting  of  his  works.  It  is,  in  a  sanatarium  where  ferociously 
naturalistic  types  play  their  parts,  the  frantic,  sensual  story  of  a 
i  madman  who  feels  wakening  within  him  the  enemy  in  each  of  us.  Nau 
has  incarnated  this  adversary  in  a  fantastic  being  of  the  same  species 
as  the  Geunia  which  has  furnished  the  title  for  another  of  his  novels 
where  will  be  found  a  few  fine  landscapes. 

The  social  novel  is  multiform.  Its  label  has  been  elastic  enough 
to  cover  melodramatic  tales,  such  as  Nini  Godache  and  La  Chevre  aux 


316  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

pieds  d'or,  indulged  in  by  Charles-Henry  Hirsch  whom  the  literary 
historian  would  be  glad  to  omit  had  not  L’Enchainement,  a  pot-pourri 
of  all  the  stereotypes  of  action  and  of  expression,  pretended  to  con¬ 
tinue  Racine’s  Phedre.  Shall  we  give  the  name  of  social  novels  to 
livres  a  clef  like  Les  Maritimes,  by  Olivier  Seylor,  declarations  of  pas¬ 
sionate  witnesses,  occasional  works  destined  to  have  a  sensational  suc¬ 
cess  or  the  light  chronicles  of  Max  and  Alex  Fischer  which  amuse  the 
reader  of  to-day  as,  it  is  said,  Gyp’s  monotonous  productions  relaxed 
the  reader  of  yesterday?  It  is  proper,  in  any  case,  to  mention  Lucien 
Muhlfeld,  whose  La  Carriere  d’Andre  Tourette  left  a  delicate  after¬ 
taste  of  veiled  and  disdainful  irony,  as  well  as  the  Hellenistic  poet 
Maurice  Brillant  who,  in  Les  Annees  d’ap prentiss age  de  Sylvam 
Briollet,  under  the  pretext  of  painting  the  ecclesiastical  circles  from 
which  he  brings  back  besides  some  very  pretty  silhouettes,  has  given 
Jerome  Coignard  a  brother  less  sparkling  but  more  orthodox.  The 
idle  monologues  of  Abbe  Joseph  Boisard,  his  digressions  on  archaeology, 
literature  or  journalism  have  a  charm  which  no  “ honnete  homme”  will 
resist. 

Roger  Martin  du  Gard — whose  Le  Testament  du  Pere  Leleu,  a  peas¬ 
ant  farce,  prolongs  the  memory  of  the  Theatre  Libre — has  attempted, 
in  the  eloquent  Jean  Barois,  the  synthetic  table  of  a  generation  for 
which  the  Affair  was  a  moral  and  intellectual  crisis,  with  this  result 
that  its  sentimental  protagonist  pales  a  little  beside  the  ideological 
Marc-Elie  Luce,  for  the  same  reasons  which,  when  we  read  Les  Caves 
du  Vatican,  lead  us  at  times  to  consider  Protos  as  a  hero  so  inde¬ 
pendent  of  his  creator  that  Gide  can  suppress  him  only  by  calling  in 
the  police.  Roger  Martin  du  Gard  has  recently  undertaken,  in  Les 
Thibault,  a  new  fresco  of  contemporary  life. 

A  part  of  Edmond  Haraucourt’s  work  also  constitutes  a  criticism  of 
his  times.  A  poet,  author  of  the  famous 

Partir,  c’est  mourir  un  peu, 

C’est  mourir  a  ce  qu’on  aime  .  .  .  , 

he  has  remained  faithful,  in  UAme  nue,  UEspoir  du  monde  and  sev¬ 
eral  dramas  in  verse,  to  the  romantic  and  Parnassian  methods,  justi¬ 
fying  a  little  too  much  his  own  statement: 

Je  suis  le  jardinier  des  fleurs  qui  ne  sont  plus. 

As  a  novelist,  he  has  given  proof  in  Tmmaille  et  Pelisson  of  qualities 
of  minute  observation,  undertaking  in  the  long  lyrical  fantasy  of 
Dieudonat,  an  ample  satire  of  that  humanity  of  which  Ddah  le  premier 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  317 

homme  analyses  the  eternal  foundation  and  Vertige  d’Afrique  the  swell¬ 
ing  rages. 

Abel  Hermant  has  made  a  specialty  of  satirical  fantasies.  The 
biographer  of  Courpiere  affected  to  describe  an  aristocratic  immor¬ 
ality  in  nonchalant  pictures  where  the  style  of  contemporary  banter 
was  sprinkled  with  chosen  archaisms.  Le  Cavalier  Miser  ey  and  La 
Carriire  furnished,  each  in  its  way,  documents  for  the  future  historian. 
The  enormous  buffooneries  of  Les  Trans atlantiques  and  of  Trains  de 
luxe,  even  if  they  did  not  constitute  very  reliable  memoirs  for  the 
study  of  an  epoch,  remained  irresistible  in  their  easiest  successes.  In 
the  works  which  followed  and  form  an  ambitious  synthesis,  Hermant 
seems  not  to  have  escaped  that  ageing  of  an  amiable  talent  which 
wishes  to  go  into  retirement  among  the  great  subjects.  Perhaps  he 
will  thus  have  laid  bare  the  methods  which  won  him  fame  as  a  livel}7 
story-teller  rather  than  revealed  the  inspired  richness  of  a  real  social 
novelist. 

It  is  by  this  megalomania  that  the  demon  de  midi  manifests  it¬ 
self  in  the  humorists.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  it  will  long  spare  Regis 
Gignoux  whose  chronicles,  in  Le  Tabac  du  Bouc,  are  all  the  better  for 
being  less  pretentious  and  Georges  de  la  Fouchardiere,  author  of  in¬ 
exhaustible  hors-d’oeuvre  who,  in  Le  Bouif,  has  created  a  characteristic 
and  enduring  hero. 

In  Leon  Daudet  the  novelist  is  subservient  to  the  pamphleteer  and 
he  pursues  on  a  double  plane  his  task  as  “historian  of  the  manners 
and  customs  of  my  epoch.”  From  Fantomes  et  Vivants  to  Au  temps 
de  Judas,  he  has  published  five  volumes  of  souvenirs  in  which  are  de¬ 
scribed  from  life  the  personages  whom  he  has  introduced  into  his 
novels  and  who  seem  to  be  the  only  living  figures  in  them.  For  the 
sterility  of  his  invention  is  compensated  by  an  extraordinary  visual 
power  in  which  the  saw-bones  collaborates  with  the  artist.  No  one 
takes  in  with  a  keener  eye  the  physical  person  of  an  adversary  or 
distorts  this  image  into  caricature  with  a  morel  ludicrous  verve.  As 
for  souls,  Daudet  implies  that  one  always  has  more  or  less  the  spirit 
of  one’s  body.  Rather  a  simple  conception,  but  all  Daudet’s  charm 
lies  in  this  simplicity.  He  is  thus  neither  as  amusing  as  the  best  of 
his  articles  would  cause  it  to  be  supposed  nor  as  tiresome  as  might 
be  imagined  from  his  dogmatic  books  were  they  taken  seriously. 
One  should  not  be  more  of  a  dupe  than  he  himself,  or  proclaim  that 
Les  Morticoles  resembles  Swift  and  Les  Primaires  Barres.  Daudet  is 
neither  a  writer  nor  a  politician.  He  shocks  the  literary  world  and 
the  world  of  action  by  his  neighings  and  his  snortings  because  it 


318  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

is  necessary  to  his  health.  He  utters  insults  every  morning  as  others 
use  dumb-bells. 

He  has  invented  for  his  personal  use  what  might  well  be  termed 
the  hygienic  novel.  An  old  Naturalistic  tendency  inclines  him  to  de¬ 
scribe  monstrous  scenes — rapes,  incests  and  adulteries.  In  order  to 
conciliate  what  he  owes  his  party  with  the  fascination  of  such  sub¬ 
jects,  Daudet  attributes  these  exploits  to  some  materialistic  doctor  or 
atheist.  Thus  the  worst  shockers,  Suzanne  and  UEntremettense, 
contribute  to  thfiMlefence  of  social  order  and  end  with  the  spectacle 
of  “a  human  cross  on  which  the  love  of  the  flesh  expires.”  This  naive 
trick  will  be  found  in  the  most  complete  of  his  works,  UHeredo.  Hap¬ 
pening  to  reflect  that  Royalism  did  not  possess  an  original  psycho¬ 
pathology,  Daudet  filled  this  gap  with  a  pseudo-scientific  theory 
based  on  his  stirring  memories  and  on  his  personal  interpretation  of 
tragic  and  fictional  creations.  The  author  of  Le  Voyage  de  Shake¬ 
speare  here  proves  once  more  the  variety  of  his  culture,  that  of 
Les  Morticoles  repeats  his  hatred  for  his  masters  of  the  Ecole  de 
Medicine  and  the  need  for  a  discipline  by  which  the  I  yields  to  Self. 
With  him  the  triumph  of  Self  has  been  absolute.  Nothing  in  Daudet 
reveals  one  of  those  I’s  charged  with  the  heredities  to  which,  he  says, 
we  owe  Hamlet,  Macbeth  and  Lear.  He  is  a  pure  Self.  He  has — 
on  the  boards  of  his  stage — reconciled  Maurras  with  Narcissism. 

Mirbeau  presented  Leon  Werth  to  the  public  in  the  form  of  a  fauve. 
Werth  started  with  campaigns  in  favour  of  advanced  painters  and  of 
no  less  advanced  social  opinions.  La  Maison  blanche,  a  description  of 
the  “life  in  white”  in  a  sanitarium,  satirized  the  false  attitudes  of  the 
so-called  elite  in  the  presence  of  suffering.  His  tone  was  that  of 
a  less  prodigal  Mirbeau.  He  seemed  to  practise  condensing  the  mas¬ 
ter’s  wordy  vociferations  into  harsh  epigrams.  Clavel  Soldat  and 
Clavel  chez  les  majors  attack,  in  all  its  forms,  military  idealism  founded 
upon  the  inaction  of  the  masses  and  the  degradation  of  the  individual. 
Werth  gives  vent  to  his  misanthropy  and  disgust  to  the  point  of 
monotony.  For  Werth  is  first  and  foremost  a  trenchant  logician, 
leading  his  crusade  against  the  stupidity  which  “supposes  speech  and 
the  power  of  garbing  the  mind  with  left-overs,”  as  he  writes  in  Voy¬ 
ages  avec  ma  pipe  where  he  is  seen  hounding  hateful  banality  in  the 
Breton  or  Dutch  landscapes  as  well  as  in  the  streets  of  Paris.  In 
Yvonne  et  Pijallet  he  has  confessed  to  a  disillusionment:  “Since  the 
war  he  loved  the  people  less,  because  the  people  fought  the  war.”  At 
the  same  time^e  has  stated  one  of  the  most  pressing  problems  of  his 
generation:  how,  after  the  war,  can  a  lucid'  mind  harmonize  its  pre-war 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  319 

thought  and  its  war  thought?  The  pamphleteer  in  Yvonne  et  Pijallet 
often  effaced  itself  behind  the  psychologist.  He  abandons  the  latter 
all  the  ground  in  Les  Amants  invisibles,  the  story  of  a  liaison  between 
two  beings  who  have  prolonged  old  sentimental  habits  without  creating 
a  new  love  from  their  encounter.  It  is  perhaps  in  this  way  of  cold, 
pitiless  analysis  that  Leon  Werth  is  destined  finally  to  affirm  his 
mastery. 

Daudet  and  Werth  have,  like  Rochefort  and  Drumont,  easily  found 
an  audience  because  they  expressed  partisan  rancour.  Leon  Bloy  be¬ 
longed  to  no  party.  He  paid  the  proud  penalty  for  it.  “I  keep 
on  ahead  of  my  thoughts  in  exile  and  in  a  great  column  of  silence.” 
He  had  masters:  Barbey,  Villiers,  Hello,  Carlyle  particularly,  “Car¬ 
lyle  who,  in  literature,  appears  to  be  my  first  cousin.”  He  helped  form 
several  illustrious  contemporaries,  notably  Huysmans ;  and  for  thirty 
years  he  fought  against  poverty  and  “the  conspiracy  of  silence.” 
This  “wrecking  contractor”  thus  lived  at  war  with  his  whole  epoch. 
His  enormous  output  is  the  account  of  this  long  struggle  told  in  his 
two  great  autobiographical  novels,  Le  Desespere  and  La  Femme 
pauvre,  as  well  as  in  the  eight  volumes  of  his  diary:  Le  Mendiant  In- 
grat,  Mon  Journal,  Quatre  Ans  de  Captivite  a  Cochons-sur-Marne, 
L’lnvendable,  Le  Vieux  de  la  Montague,  Le  Pelerm  de  VAbsolu,  Au 
Seuil  de  V Apocalypse,  La  Porte  des  Humbles. 

“A  very  humble  and  very  artless  vociferator” — such  is  Bloy’s  def¬ 
inition  of  Bloy.  “I  am  not  of  this  century,”  he  writes  to  Mirbeau. 
And  again:  “You  judge  me  humanly  without  heeding  that  I  am  pre¬ 
cisely  outside  every  human  point  of  view  and  that  therein  lies  my 
whole  strength,  my  only  strength.  The  clear  truth  which  flashes  forth 
in  all  my  books  is  that  I  write  for  God  alone.”  He  considered  him¬ 
self  “a  promulgator  of  the  absolute  .  .  .  established  in  the  supernatu¬ 
ral  life.”  His  Catholicism  was  apocalyptic.  Like  his  Cain  Marchen- 
oir,  “he  regarded  the  catastrophe  of  the  secular  tragic-farce  of  man  as 
very  near  at  hand.”  Throughout  his  life  he  watched  for  the  preluding 
signs  of  the  supreme  upheaval.  From  1914  to  1917  he  awaited  “the 
Cossacks  and  the  Holy  Ghost.”  He  was  “sent  as  a  witness”  to  re¬ 
mind  his  contemporaries  of  the  omnipresence  of  Christian  liberty  and 
solidarity:  “Every  man  who  produces  a  free  act  projects  his  per¬ 
sonality  into  the  infinite.  If  he  gives  a  cent  to  a  beggar  in  a  heart¬ 
less  spirit,  the  cent  pierces  the  beggar’s  hand,  falls,  pierces  the  earth, 
bores  through  the  suns,  traverses  the  firmament  and  compromises  the 
universe.” 

By  this  constant  enlargement  of  vision  Bloy  is  a  great  prose  poet. 


320  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

The  abusive  character  of  his  work  has  been  much  insisted  upon,  the 
“scatological  energy  of  his  anathemas” ;  but  he  well  knew  that  every 
concession  weakens  and  he  refused  to  compromise:  “All  that  is  not 
exclusively,  desperately  Catholic  has  no  other  right  than  to  be  silent, 
being  scarcely  worthy  of  rinsing  hospital  chamber-pots  or  scraping 
the  privies  of  a  German  infantry  barracks.”  Now  it  is  among  the 
self-styled  Catholics  that  his  search  for  “priests  who  are  brotherly  to 
intelligences”  met  the  worst  enemies :  “Never  has  there  been  any¬ 
thing  so  odious,  so  completely  execrable  as  the  contemporary  Catholic 
world.”  They  had  repulsed  him — him,  “the  poor  man,”  “the  admir¬ 
ably  unfortunate”  man,  the  “magnanimously  desperate”  man,  pro¬ 
claiming  that  “there  is  nothing  greater  than  begging.”  He  avenged 
himself  in  L’Exegese  des  lieux  communs  by  ruining  the  easy  morality 
of  stupidity,  by  throwing  this  warning  to  the  bourgeois:  “We  are 
this,  you  and  I,  and  naught  but  this,  abysses !”  He  avenged  himself 
by  restoring  its  mystical  character  to  the  most  commonplace  reality : 
“Plausible  tales  no  longer  deserve  to  be  told.  Naturalism  has  decried 
them  so  far  as  to  give  rise,  in  every  intellectual,  to  a  famishing  need  of 
literary  hallucination.”  The  tales  in  Sueur  de  sang,  the  fierce  frescoes 
of  La  Femme  pauvre  and  of  Le  Desespere  which  “is  not  a  casual  or 
timely  tract  but  really  a  social  satire,”  accomplish  this  prodigy  of 
“naturalizing  the  Infinite  in  the  most  ordinary  conversations.”  In 
Histoires  desoblige antes,  equally  lyrical  in  the  grotesque  or  the  grue¬ 
some,  he  exhales  all  his  rancours  as  a  “frightful  concentrator”  and  a 
“celestial  cannibal.” 

At  times  he  arose  above  this  struggle,  abandoning  himself  to  his 
visionary  genius.  In  L’Ame  de  Napoleon  he  has  revealed  in  the  Em¬ 
peror  “the  face  of  God  in  the  Shadows,  the  Beggar  of  the  Infinite” 
and  restored  him  his  rank  in  the  universal  solidarity:  “If  then  I 
think  Napoleon  might  well  be  an  iota  flaming  with  glory,  I  am  forced 
to  say,  at  the  same  time,  that  the  battle  of  Friedland,  for  example, 
could  perfectly  well  have  been  won  by  a  little  girl  three  years  old 
or  by  a  vagabond  centenarian  asking  God  that  his  will  be  done  on 
earth  as  it  is  in  Heaven.”  In  Le  Salut  par  les  Juifs,  “the  only  one  of 
my  books  I  would  dare  offer  God,”  he  has  testified  for  the  Elder  Race, 
resumed  the  dilemma  of  the  Middle  Ages,  interpreted  the  parables, 
celebrated  “creative  Love  whose  breath  is  vagrant.”  In  these  gran¬ 
diose  mystical  effusions  all  his  hardness  melts:  “When  one  speaks 
amorously  of  God,  all  human  words  resemble  lions  gone  blind  and 
seeking  a  spring  in  the  desert.”  For  until  the  end  this  scornful 
vociferator,  this  artist  so  conscious  of  his  rude  genius,  remained 
the  man  who  dared  confess :  “In  the  presence  of  the  death  of  a  little 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  321 

child.  Art  and  Poetry  really  resemble  very  great  poverties.”  There 
he  truly  attained  the  glory  he  promised  himself:  “Your  stifled,  per¬ 
manent  books,  which  are  like  nights  of  love,  have  consoled  three  or  four 
desperate  men.” 

7.  THE  PROVINCIAL  AND  REGION ALIS TIC  NOVEL 

Dedicating  his  Robe  de  laine  to  Loti,  Henri  Bordeaux  placed  under 
Sand’s  and  Formentin’s  protection  this  novel  in  which,  refining  on  Ten¬ 
nyson’s  mediocrity,  he  teaches  that  a  poor  woman  does  not  with¬ 
out  danger  marry  “one  of  those  pitiless  conquerors  of  the  upper 
classes  who  do  not  tolerate  being  hampered  by  laws  or  by  other  men 
the  moment  they  have,  or  think  they  have,  the  means  of  escaping 
them.”  Written  throughout  in  this  style,  his  copious  work  opposes 
Rousseau’s  vicar  with  a  Savoyard  churchwarden’s  profession  of  faith ; 
and  it  is  so  narrow  that  little  can  be  discerned  but  its  limits.  The 
author  has  defined  its  positive  content  in  the  dedication  of  La  Neige 
sur  les  pas  to  Bourget :  “It  seems  to  me  that  if  my  novels  have  any 
common  bond,  this  bond  is  feeling  for  the  family.”  At  times  he  has 
sought  to  force  his  talent  in  war  books  which  are  too  cleverly  or  too 
candidly  hasty ;  and  in  La  Nouvelle  Croisade  des  Enfants  false  nai¬ 
vete  leads  to  silliness;  but,  just  as  Savoy  is  his  favourite  setting  and 
gentiment  his  most  characteristic  adverb,  so  the  defence  of  the  home 
is  his  theme,  whether  to  show  it  as  hierarchical,  in  the  image  of  the 
eternal  home  ( La  Maison ),  saved  by  its  head  after  a  factitious  crisis 
{Les  Roquevillard) ,  or  reconstructed  after  an  adultery  {La  Neige  sur 
les  pas).  Full  justice  will  have  been  rendered  Henri  Bordeaux  when 
we  add  that  he  is  Catholic  in  the  sense  in  which  this  word  is  opposed 
to  universal  and  that  no  one  else  has  contributed  more  to  associating 
the  idea  of  the  provincial  novel  with  boredom. 

Rene  Bazin  has  aided  him  in  this  with  a  literary  abnegation  which 
is  perhaps  a  virtue.  Two  works  have  made  his  name  known :  La 
Terre  qui  meurt  relates  the  end  of  a  family  of  farmers,  in  the  Ven- 
dean  marshes,  whose  sons  abandon  the  soil  and  which  is  saved  by  the 
marriage  of  the  daughter  with  a  farm-hand  from  the  Bocage.  Les 
j  Oberle  shows  a  divided  Alsatian  family  whose  son  deserts  from  the 
!  German  army  to  cross  into  France.  These  books  borrowed,  at  the 
i  time,  a  certain  dramatic  accent  from  the  circumstances.  Rene  Bazin 
has  also  written  Le  Ble  qui  leve  and  a  long  list  of  novels. 

There  are  writer’s  qualities  of  another  order  in  the  voluntary  efface- 
i  ment  of  Rene  Boylesve :  “My  tastes  are  so  ordinary  I  should  be  dis- 
i  tressed  not  to  be  clad  like  everybody,”  he  affirms  in  the  preface  to  his 
:  first  novel,  Le  Medecin  des  dames  de  Neans.  In  it  he  described  the 


322  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

■awakening  to  life  and  to  love  of  the  beautiful  inhabitant  of  a  dull  little 
Angevin  town.  Here  were  already  seen  the  two  aspects  of  his  talent 
which  inspired  him  with  the  following  commentary  on  the  title  of  his 
book  of  tales,  Nymphes  dansant  avec  des  satyres :  “The  hesitation 
expressed  by  it  between  the  grace  of  pure  forms  and  the  often  dis¬ 
tressed  and  bitter  grimace  of  that  malignity  which  I  see  on  the  face  of 
the  world,  seems  to  me  characteristic  of  a  turn  of  mind  to  be  found  in 
all  my  books.”  From  that,  he  invites  us  at  times  to  listen  to  literary 
variations  on  all  the  subjects  dear  to  the  Alexandrianism  of  the  early 
France  or  else  to  that  pretty  licentious  intrigue  on  the  banks  of  the 
Loire,  La  Legon  d’ amour  dans  un  pare,  the  work  of  an  uneven  Reg- 
nier.  Convinced,  on  the  other  hand,  that  one  must  be  a  “faithful 
historian  and  good  poet  .  .  .  two  qualities  without  which  it  is  in¬ 
deed  vain  to  write  novels,”  he  undertook  to  depict,  in  La  Becquee, 
“the  scenes  and  the  figures  common  to  the  French  provincial  family,” 
to  rehabilitate  “the  ungrateful  beauty  of  conservatism.”  L’Enfant  a, 
la  balustrade  watches  the  pettinesses  of  conservatism  file  by  in  the  town 
dominated  by  the  statue  of  Vigny ;  and  Elise,  losing  caste  through 
love,  continues  to  run  foul  of  them  in  the  world  of  the  “irregulars” ; 
but  the  beauty  of  this  rigid  conservatism  also  lives  again  in  Mademoi¬ 
selle  Cloque,  an  evocation,  with  Tours  as  a  background,  of  an  ultra¬ 
montane  and  heroic  old  maid  which  is  Rene  Boylesve’s  strongest  work. 

Two  writers  killed  in  the  war  had  brought  their  contribution  to  re- 
gionalistic  literature.  Louis  Pergaud  owed  to  his  Franche-Comte  the 
inspiration  of  the  “village  tales,”  told  with  a  healthy  humour  exempt 
from  heightening  and  from  excessive  realism,  which  compose  Les 
Rustiques.  His  animal  stories,  De  Goupil  a  Margot,  dwelt  particu¬ 
larly  on  the  dramatic  and  menaced  life  of  the  beasts,  siding  with  them 
against  man.  Le  Roman  de  Mirant  recounted  the  life  of  a  dog,  his 
misdeeds  in  domestic  life,  his  triumphs  in  the  field,  his  ineradicable  af¬ 
fection  for  his  master ;  and  this  picturesqueness  attained  emotion  with¬ 
out  falling  into  sentimentality.  Louis  Codet  had,  in  Cesar  Caper  an, 
painted  a  very  sympathetic  Gascon  and,  in  La  Fortune  de  Becot,  the 
romantic  adventures  of  the  gay  and  stalwart  Cherubin  of  a  light  and 
voluptuous  Rousillon.  These  tales,  full  of  go,  promised  an  original 
novelist. 

Several  have  thus  attached  their  names  to  our  provinces.  Brittany 
has  Charles  le  Goffic  and  Anatole  le  Braz.  Paul  Arene  has  learned 
and  repeated  his  stories  (the  best  of  which  is  the  impassioned  Chevre 
d’Or)  “under  the  good  sun”  of  Provence.  Jean  Variot  has  delicately 
tpld  and  taken  tq  the  theatre,  in  Lq  Rose  de  Roseim,  the  tquch- 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  323 

ing  Alsatian  legend.  Emile  Moselly,  author  of  Jean  des  Brebis  and 
Le  Rouet  d’ivoire,  has  specialized  in  describing  the  Lorraine  country. 
Les  Grenouilles  dans  la  mare,  the  picture  of  a  provincial  election, 
proved  he  could  bring  the  same  superficial  facility  to  various  subjects. 
Jean  Piot,  before  devoting  his  activity  to  combative  journalism,  had, 
in  Le  Village,  given  a  realistic  and  lyrical  picture  of  a  corner  of  the 
Haute  Marne. 

The  strong,  rude  La  Briere  of  1923  has  recalled  the  fact  that  in 
1911  Alphonse  de  Chateaubriant  enjoyed  a  distinguished  success 
with  Monsieur  des  Lourdines,  the  moving  story  of  a  country  gentleman 
in  the  Pontevin  bocage,  about  1840.  Gaston  Roupnell’s  Nono  revives 
the  roguish  Burgundian  good  nature.  Le  Caiiet,  by  Michel  Yell, 
makes  the  monsters  of  the  North  grimace  in  the  sinister  light  of  a  bar¬ 
racks.  In  FUles  de  la  Pluie,  Andre  Savignon  has  described  Ushant, 
“the  lost  island,”  or  rather  a  few  figures  of  Ushant  women.  Marc 
Elder’s  social  novels  have  less  relief  than  that  Peuple  de  la  mer  in 
which  he  evokes  dramas  of  envy,  sensuality  and  death  among  the 
Noirmoutier  fishermen. 

Others  have  not  been  satisfied  with  a  first  picture.  Pierre  Villetard 
had,  in  M.  et  Mme.  Bille,  followed  step  by  step  the  life  of  a  family  of 
Pont-sur-Loir  to  whom  nothing  happens  but  the  little  incidents  of 
provincial  life.  He  then  led  his  hero — the  type  of  the  petit  bourgeois 
— through  the  storm  without  this  slight  satire  adding  much  to  our 
knowledge  of  the  war.  Finally,  with  Lavandou  as  a  setting,  he  proved, 
in  Le  Chateau  sous  les  roses,  that  he  was  as  capable  as  anyone  of 
painting  a  little  sentimental  romance.  Henri  Bachelin  is  the  painter 
of  the  Morvan  where  the  honest  figure  of  Le  Serviteur  stands  forth, 
where,  in  Juliette  la  Jolie  and  in  Le  Petit,  unfold  the  adventures  of 
a  girl-mother  who  experiences  all  the  diversities  of  love  without  leav¬ 
ing  her  little  town.  Ernest  Perochon  had  begun  with  Les  Creux  de 
maisons,  a  sombre  picture  of  village  misery  under  the  “honest  mist” 
of  Bressuire  and  its  surroundings.  He  was  made  famous  by  Nine, 
the  story  of  a  servant-girl  who  discovers  the  ingratitude  of  men  and 
of  children — a  grey  tale  relieved  by  the  description  of  the  curious  sect 
of  dissidents  in  the  Vendean  Bocage.  It  is  difficult  to  take  seriously 
his  Chemin  de  plaine,  an  aggressively  elementary  journal  of  a  melo¬ 
dramatically  caricatural  school-teacher.  It  is  natural  that  public 
favour  should  turn  from  such  rustic  novels  to  books  without  factitious 
plot — to  the  sombre  pictures  of  Gascony  drawn  by  Joseph  de  Pesqui- 
doux  in  Chez  nous  and  Sur  la  Glebe,  to  La  Vie  de  Grillon  told  as  a 
philosopher  by  Charles  Derennes,  to  H.-J.  Fabre’s  Souvenirs  Ento - 


324  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

mologiques,  especially  minute,  to  Georges  Pousot’s  lively  Roman  de 
la  Riviere,  to  Gabriel  Faure’s  delicate  French  and  Italian  Paysages 
litter  aires. 

Belgians  and  Swiss  have  had  their  share  in  this  blossoming  of  the 
regionalistic  novel.  “These  Gauls  ...  are  not  foreigners  in  spite  of 
the  frontier,”  says  Rosny,  speaking  of  Camille  Lemonnier’s  characters. 
Doubtless  it  is  prudent  to  foresee  considerable  waste  in  this  enormous 
production.  The  brutal  Naturalism  of  Happe-Chair,  the  carnal  mys¬ 
ticism  of  L’Hysterique  and  several  straggling  flashes  of  violence  in 
L’Amant  passionne  will  not  save  these  books.  There  is  a  certain  arti¬ 
fice  in  the  horror  of  Le  Mort  and  frescoes  like  La  Fin  des  Bourgeois 
are  not  without  a  touch  of  trickery.  Where  he  excels  is  in  recreating 
the  atmosphere  of  Furnes  in  Le  Petit  Homme  de  Dieu,  in  plunging 
the  secular  instincts  back  into  a  luminous  nature  once  more  (Au  Cosur 
frais  de  la  foret,  Vile  Vierge )  ;  and  no  one  will  question  the 
{power  of  the  landscape  painter  in  Le  Vent  dans  les  moulins  or  the 
rugged  grandeur  of  Un  Male.  There  a  savage  love-drama,  unfolds 
between  the  poacher  Cacheapres  and  the  farmer’s  wife  Germaine. 
With  its  kermises,  its  brawls,  its  slow,  wily  old  peasants,  its  vigorous, 
quarrelsome  youths,  with  its  broad  symphony  of  field  and  forest,  this 
novel  is  really  the  poem  of  Wallonie. 

Compared  with  Lemonnier’s  work,  Georges  Eekhoud’s  pales  a  trifle. 
The  author  of  Mes  Communions,  Kees  Dorik,  and  Les  Libertins  d’ An¬ 
vers,  profoundly  influenced  by  the  Elizabethans  some  of  whose  dramas 
he  has  translated,  has  devoted  a  series  of  historical  studies  and  novels 
to  Belgium.  Perhaps  the  scholar  in  him  occasionally  harms  the  crea¬ 
tor.  In  Le  Cycle  patibulaire  his  partiality  for  beautiful  instinctive 
brutes  sometimes  expresses  itself  with  brutal  candour,  sometimes  with 
the  refinement  of  the  Symbolist  prose  poem;  and  the  fever  of  inspira¬ 
tion  does  not  suffice  to  weld  these  diverse  elements  together.  He  has 
none  the  less  erected  a  massive  but  impressive  statue  to  Antwerp  in  La 
Noumlle  Carthage  and  merits  Gourmont’s  praise:  “He  represents 
a  race  and  a  moment  of  this  race.” 

There  is  no  heaviness  in  Andre  Baillon,  rather  a  perpetual  skipping 
which,  in  Histoire  d'une  Marie,  recalls  Charles-Louis  Philippe’s 
manner,  in  En  Sabots  Jules  Renard’s;  but  the  latter  narrative  of  a 
humble  passive  existence  is  told  with  an  exact  tenderness  and  these 
sketches  of  anti-intellectual  life  in  Flanders  give  definitive  form  to 
savoury  observations.  Without  sentimental  emphasis,  this  art  is 
penetrating  fts  are  also — at  the  antipodes  of  Naturalism — the  Rim¬ 
baud-like  notations  of  P.  Desmeth’s  Avec  la  Nuit. 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  325 

C.-F.  Ramuz  enjoys  great  popularity  in  French-speaking  Switzer¬ 
land.  His  J ean-Luc  persecute  offers  some  vigorous  engravings  of 
lustic  life.  In  Terre  du  del  the  imagination  is  powerful  and  many 
evocative  pages  could  be  cited.  The  questionable  part  of  this  work 
is  its  style  which,  even  in  the  novels,  displays  the  inexhaustible  abun¬ 
dance  of  the  prose  poem,  Le  Chant  de  notre  Rhone,  and  mingles  the 
broken  tread  of  a  pupil  of  Peguy  or  of  Claudel  with  the  picturesque 
provincialisms  which  give  it  its  savoury  weight. 

Benjamin  Vallotton  is  the  creator  of  Potterat,  a  retired  police- 
officer,  interpreter  of  Vaudois  commonsense,  of  its  revolt  against  the 
violation  of  Belgian  neutrality  and  against  the  order  for  Swiss  neu¬ 
trality.  In  addition  to  A  Tatons,  a  novel  on  the  war-blind,  he  has 
described,  in  Ceux  de  Barivier,  the  tragic  story  of  a  Savoyard  village 
during  the  struggle.  The  mocking  humour  of  Ce  qu’en  pense  Potterat 
is  found  again  in  his  Achille  et  de,  a  satire  on  a  family  of  profiteers 
installed  in  a  historical  chateau  with  their  symbolical  monkey. 

8.  THE  ANALYTICAL  NOVEL 

Fi  om  La  Princesse  de  Cleves  to  La  P orte  etroite  the  analytical  novel 
has  produced  such  a  succession  of  admirable  models  it  is  hard  to 
imagine  it  neglected  at  any  epoch.  Ours  has  distinguished  itself  by 
an  effort  to  renew  its  canvas,  in  order  to  avoid  the  dogmatic  heaviness 
|  which  is  its  stumbling-block. 

In  L’Empreinte,  Edouard  Estaunie  has  studied  the  grip  of  the 
Jesuits  on  a  mind'  which  escapes  them,  loses  faith  and  tries  to  live 
free  but  which,  having  failed,  decides  to  become  a  priest  of  the  Lord 
he  does  not  believe  in.  This  Catholic  story  can  be  reproached  with 
a  certain  Protestant  rigidity,  notably  in  the  dilemma  (man  or  priest) 
which  leads  to  the  denouement.  Without  renouncing  the  powerful 
conviction  of  L’Empremte,  Estaunie  broadens  his  horizon  in  Les 
C hoses  voient.  In  an  old  Dijon  attic,  three  narratives,  forming  the 
i  story  of  three  generations,  are  told  by  three  of  those  pieces  of  furni¬ 
ture  which  are  “the  life  of  the  dead” :  that  of  the  Clock  in  which  the 
psychological  drama  is  as  brutal  as  that  of  a  detective  story;  that 
of  the  Mirror  in  which  the  object  identifies  itself  so  tragically  with 
i  the  paralysed  being  whose  face  it  reflects ;  that  of  the  Writing-desk 
i which  is  much  more  conventional;  and  even  if  this  attempt  is  not 
|  without  heaviness  and  improbability,  the  figure  of  Noemie  Clerabault 
I  stands  forth  with  intense  relief.  The  guiding  idea  of  all  Estaunie’s 
work  is  already  formulated  here.  Our  avowed  life  is  merely  a  fa9ade 
behind  which  our  deep  life — the  only  important  one — is  hidden.  He 


326  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

has  developed  this  in  La  Vie  secrete  where  seven  people  discover  at 
the  same  time  that  they  have  nothing  in  common  with  their  public 
image,  and  in  U. Ascension  de  M.  Baslivre  where  love  awakens  a 
great  mystic  soul  in  a  commonplace  man.  No  doubt  this  projection 
of  the  inner  life  is  obtained  only  by  the  will  of  the  author  whose 
coups  d'etat  are  sometimes  clumsy ;  but  in  Estaunie  the  method  is 
always  frank  and  honest.  Its  employment  is  justified  by  moving 
pages  in  which  the  problems  of  a  tormented  conscience  are  presented 
with  rare  loyalty.  These  noble  qualities  are  found  again  in  L’ Appel 
de  la  route,  a  vigorous  narrative  in  which  three  witnesses  agree  in 
proving  that  suffering,  even  though  it  be  not  born  of  a  blind  fatality 
but  of  the  very  life  of  conscious  beings,  remains  on  that  account  only 
a  more  dolorous  enigma. 

In  his  three  books  which  would  probably  have  been  but  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  an  ampler  work,  Emile  Clermont  (killed  in  battle  in  1916) 
remains  the  novelist  of  scruple.  As  such  he  enters  a  French  tradi¬ 
tion:  “This  story,”  he  writes  of  his  Laure,  “is  almost  ageless  and 
dateless.  It  could  have  happened  two  centuries  ago,  and  at  most 
there  is  in  it  a  certain  tremor  which  makes  it  of  to-day.”  The  one 
blemish  of  Laure  is  not  this  tremor  but  rather  the  setting  of  false 
Barresian  marble  in  which  Clermont  has  situated  this  fine  drama  of 
the  “envelopment  of  the  infinite.”  Laure  baffles  her  lover,  turns  him 
off  on  her  sister,  brutalizes  her  dying  father,  returns  to  trouble  the 
household  she  has  united  and,  after  having  directed  several  destinies, 
finds  herself  obliged  to  confess :  “What  I  myself  have  done  in  my 
life  has  always  been  decided  over  my  head.”  Her  high  mystical  dis¬ 
interestedness  gives  however  a  certain  radiancy  to  the  commonplace 
lives  it  troubles.  Already,  in  Amour  promis,  the  one  real  joy  found 
by  Andre  was  in  the  inner  life  analysed  with  “a  mixture  of  passion 
and  irreparable  nonchalance.”  Haunted  by  “the  waste  of  desires” 
and  also  by  the  “attraction  of  a  more  suffering  and  rarer  voluptu¬ 
ousness,”  he  communicated  to  Helene  his  obsession  for  the  absolute, 
and  she  died  of  it.  Again,  in  that  Histoire  d’Isabelle  in  which  he 
wished  to  broach  the  social  problem,  Clermont  presented  two  super¬ 
human  figures,  Genevieve  intact  and  pure,  “ennobling  life  by  her  re¬ 
nunciation,”  Isabelle  feverish  and  disorderly,  “whose  soul  is  not  pro¬ 
portioned  to  her  surroundings,  but  adds  something  to  the  wmrld.” 
No  one  has  expressed  with  more  fraternal  penetration  this  grip  of  the 
ideal  which  takes  the  colour  from  the  face  of  life. 

The  sentfment  of  a  balance  destroyed  has  often  inspired  Francois 
Mauriac’s  novels  also.  In  La  Chair  et  Le  Sang  three  young  minds 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  327 

are  upset  by  contradictory  love  aspirations.  In  Preseances  a 
brother  and  a  sister  have  to  decide  whether  they  will  accept  the 
worldly  ideals  of  the  scions  of  the  great  Bordeaux  business  houses  or 
whether  they  will  lead  their  own  original  inner  life.  Le  Baiser  au 
Lepreux  recounts,  in  a  corner  of  the  Landes,  a  thrilling  drama 
where  two  obscure  beings  fight  over  again  the  great  duel  between 
Christianity  and  Nietzscheism.  For  each  of  the  subjects  treated  by 
Mauriac  is  at  least  double:  a  human  conflict  and  a  problem  of  faith 
where  is  recognized  the  author  of  Quelques  Cceurs  inquiets,  studies 
in  religious  psychology. 

Disquietude  is  the  natural  domain  of  the  analyst.  Andre  Obey, 
author  of  Le  Gardien  de  la  ville,  has,  in  UEnfant  inquiet,  described 
that  terror  of  living  in  an  over-sensitive  child,  which  had  already  pre¬ 
occupied  Gilbert  de  Voisins.  In  L’Enfant  qui  prit  peur,  Voisins  had 
shown  the  child  too  early  initiated  to  human  sorrow  without  an  in¬ 
telligent  or  mystical  counterpoise.  His  Esprit  impur  presents  the 
1  same  demon  of  fear  attacking  an  adult  weighed  down  by  a  heredity  of 
alcoholism  and  insanity.  Voisins  can  rouse  the  moral  problem  even 
in  that  excellent  novel  of  violent  adventure,  Le  Bar  de  la  Fourche. 
Among  the  gold-seekers  of  the  Far  West  with  its  unleashed  pas¬ 
sions,  the  influence  of  the  Bible  is  strangely  exercised.  It  still  domi¬ 
nates,  paradoxically  and  efficaciously,  La  Conscience  dans  le  mal 
'where  the  Puritan  Randal,  a  circus-manager,  condemns  the  two  lov- 
<  ers  who  have  betrayed  him,  to  life ;  and  may  it  not  be  to  this  reli¬ 
gious  disquietude  that  can  be  ascribed  the  enormous  success  of  Rein- 
r  came  and  Hcinte?  In  these  two  “novels  of  the  beyond,”  which  he 
refuses  to  call  novels  of  the  imagination,  Dr.  Lucien  Graux,  author 
of  Les  Fausses  Nowv'elles  de  la  grande  guerre,  has  shown  himself  a 
i!  spirited  story-teller. 

Others  have  sought  the  secrets  of  the  human  soul  in  less  abnormal 
r  paths.  Edmond  Jaloux’s  first  book,  L’Agonie  de  V Amour,  studied — 

!  already  in  the  double  Parisian  and  Proven9al  setting — the  case  of  the 
1  young  man  incapable  of  abandoning  himself  to  the  great  love  he 
invokes.  Jaloux’s  best  books  are  those  in  which  he  has  been  able 
to  display  the  pastel  delicacies  which  form  the  charm  of  L’Incertaine 
rand  Le  Reste  est  silence—  the  story  of  an  ill-matched  couple  observed 
by  a  child,  while  exalting  “that  life,  at  once  spiritual  and  romantic, 

1  which  has  ever  appeared  to  us  the  most  beautiful  of  all.”  He  likes 
to  follow  those  “beginnings  of  a  sentiment  to  which  only  circumstances 
are  wanting  or  a  certain  inner  warmth  to  realize  itself  completely.” 
As  a  setting  for  Fumees  dans  la  campagne,  he  chooses  Aix,  for  La 
iil  Fin  d'un  beau  jour,  Versailles,  and  in  them  he  develops  with  a  linger- 


328  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

ing  tenderness  the  dramas  in  which  heroic  dispositions  are  reab¬ 
sorbed  with  a  fine  melancholy. 

Le  Diable  a,  Vhotel,  by  Emile  Henriot,  is  an  imaginative  journey 
(“for  imagination  is  the  ti*easure  of  the  poor”)  in  a  provincial  town 
where  “space  is  for  nothing,”  and  time  also.  His  wanderings  through 
Aix  inspire  him  with  amiable  poems  and  witty  portraits  under  the 
jegis  of  Stendhal  and  of  Sterne,  and  he  unites  these  “imaginary  pleas¬ 
ures”  with  the  fragile  link  of  a  delicate  sentimental  novel  written 
round  a  little  bronze-coloured  shoe.  In  L’ Instant  et  le  Souvenir ,  the 
novel  of  a  love-lorn  soul  incapable  of  happiness,  and  in  Les  Temps 
innocents,  childhood  memories  forming  “a  novel  in  which  the  intrigue 
is  null  but  which  is  not  without  unity,”  the  spirit  seems  less  spon¬ 
taneous,  the  analysis  keeping  however  the  same  slight  and  smiling 
gracefulness. 

Charles  Geniaux  has  placed  his  books  in  the  most  varied  settings, 
from  La  Bretagne  vivante  to  Sous  les  Figuiers  de  Kabilie.  His  fa¬ 
vourite  subject  is  the  romance  of  an  impossible  love,  whether  it  be 
gagged  by  the  Lamennaisian  pride  of  Le  Passion  d’Armelle  Louanais 
or  condemned  to  despair,  in  Les  Cosurs  gravitent,  by  the  laws  which 
govern  the  world  of  souls  as  well  as  that  of  bodies.  Andre  Beaunier 
has  hesitated  between  criticism  and  the  novel.  His  books  often  try  to 
unite  the  two  forms  under  the  same  cover.  In  La  Poesie  Nouvelle 
(1902)  he  showed  a  sympathy  for  the  young  which  has  become  some¬ 
what  blunted  in  Les  Idees  et  les  Homines.  He  had  in  the  mean¬ 
time  discovered  that  “need  for  having  in  the  last  analysis  strength¬ 
ened  his  reason  only  in  order  to  hold  it  in  submission,”  upon  which  he 
based  the  rather  unconvincing  fiction  of  U Homme  qui  a  perdu  son  moi. 
The  transition  is  easy  between  his  lively  biographies  of  Chateau¬ 
briand’s  mistresses,  of  Mme.  de  La  Fayette,  of  Sidonia  de  Lenoncourt 
and  the  most  ingenious  of  his  novels,  Suzanne  et  le  Plaisir,  which  is  not 
a  grand  post-war  fresco  but  the  delicate  portrait  of  a  young  woman 
led  on  from  pleasure  to  love  and  to  “a  sad  gaiety,  romantic  and 
disappointed.” 

Balzac’s  example  has  obsessed  Binet-Valmer,  inspiring  him  with  a 
cyclic  group  for  his  various  pictures  of  a  world  where  he  himself 
would  pass  as  an  observer,  after  the  fashion  of  his  Dr.  Batchano. 
The  solid  part  of  his  work  is  not  however  that  in  which  the  present 
moment  outlives  itself  rather  than  lives  in  it  again — for  example, 
Les  Meteques,  a  book  not  so  much  rich  as  confused  in  which  the 
novelist’s  Machiavellianism  renders  the  insufficiency  of  the  charac¬ 
ters  the  more  striking.  In  La  Passion  the  psychological  interest  car¬ 
ries  the  day.  The  somewhat  artificial  parallelism  of  the  two  crea- 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  329 

tions,  by  the  spirit  and  by  the  flesh,  leads  to  a  well-constructed  drama. 
Binet-V aimer  here  continues  that  study  of  the  seamy  side  of  genius 
already  begun  in  Lucien  where  he  boldly  threw  upon  an  abnormal  hero 
the  light  of  an  analysis  led  astray  by  no  lie,  even  by  the  lies  of  the 
war  through  which  all  the  protagonists  in  L’Enfant  qui  meurt  have 
passed. 

Edgar,  an  amusing  kaleidoscope  of  frivolous  Parisian  life,  shows 
how  Henri  Duvernois  rejuvenates  the  analytical  novel  by  means  of 
the  vaudeville.  Crapotte  makes  us  marvel  at  the  amount  of  observa¬ 
tion  and  fancy  the  careless  gossip  of  a  little  kept  woman  can  cover. 
La  Brebis  galeuse  reveals,  in  its  immediate  utilization  of  current  in¬ 
terest,  the  ingenuity  of  such  monotony  as  well  as  at  times  the  monot¬ 
ony  of  such  ingenuity.  The  prettiest  successes  in  this  mocking  vein 
are  the  brief  tales  of  Fifinoiseaw.  There  a  happy  chance,  a  setting, 
a  minute  of  vigilance  or  of  neglect  suffice  Duvernois  to  determine 
the  unexpected  detail  which  will  complete  the  simplicity  of  a  charac¬ 
ter  or  reveal  its  complexity. 

Jean  Girardoux  has  introduced  into  the  novel  the  impressionism 
which  had  already  triumphed  in  painting  and  in  music.  His  Provin- 
ciales  described,  in  stipple,  the  imaginative  flights  of  a  little  boy  in 
a  village  between  Tours  and  Chateauroux.  The  same  style,  composed 
of  trifles,  carefully  selected  details,  abrupt  elisions,  evoked  adventures 
like  that  of  La  Pharmacienne,  where  intelligence  and  humour  united 
to  create  a  kind  of  new  sensibility.  In  it  were  already  to  be  found  the 
abuse  of  mechanical  comparisons,  a  great  deal  of  affectation,  that  tone 
of  the  cultivated  humanist  and  of  the  simpering  little  girl  which  will 
render  a  given  touch  absurd  or  charming  according  to  the  reader’s 
disposition :  “Death  is  so  old  it  is  addressed  in  Latin  .  .  .”  “If  hap¬ 
piness  is  having  lips  ready  to  laugh,  eyes  ready  to  weep,  and  an  im¬ 
mense  hat  with  twelve  feathers  .  .  but  its  spontaneity  made  even 
this  mannerism  poetic,  distinguished  it  from  the  strained  art  of  a  Jules 
Renard  and  each  of  his  images  marked  his  originality:  “Truth  is 
quite  naked,  but  she  wears  her  nakedness  like  a  uniform  and  leans  on 
every  well-curb  to  see  in  the  water  how  it  becomes  her.” 

Giraudoux’s  style  is  sufficiently  personal  to  dispense  its  author  from 
romantic  invention.  It  is  enough  for  him  to  describe  and  the  best 
pages  of  Jacques  VEgoiste  are  pictures  of  Paris  when  “the  fountains 
of  the  Tuileries  are  already  turned  down  like  night-lights.”  For 
his  war-books,  Adorable  Clio  and  Lectures  pour  une  Ombre,  a  motto 
suggests  itself :  “Pardon  me,  O  War,  for  having — every  time  I  could 
_ caressed  thee !”  One  may  detest  the  kind  of  elaboration  which  sums 


330  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

tip  memories  of  Alsace,  of  the  Marne  or  of  the  Dardanelles  in  impres¬ 
sions  of  this  sort :  “Evening  borders  this  Alsatian  land  with  a  Ger¬ 
man  sky,  long  and  low,  for  it  is  the  end  of  the  remnant” ;  but  it  will 
be  hard  to  remain  insensible  to  the  talent,  capricious  yet  master  of 
“its  French  words  so  pure,”  which  animates  simultaneously,  in  La 
Nuit  a  Chdtecmroux,  three  stages  of  a  life  all  aquiver  with  the  stirrings 
of  a  curiosity  successful  in  stirring  emotion  in  himself  and  in  his 
readers.  It  is  this  style  too  which,  in  Arnica  America — notes  of  a 
mission  to  the  United  States — sometimes  matches  the  moving  side¬ 
walk  of  which  he  speaks  or,  by  dint  of  detailed  precision,  renders  vague 
the  “little  girl  stories”  he  relates. 

Of  these,  Suzanne  et  le  Pacifique  is  developed  at  greatest  length. 
In  this  satire  on  the  novel  of  adventure  where  the  snarl  of  compari¬ 
sons  and  analogies  is  unravelled  with  an  adroit  method,  it  would  be 
easy  to  point  out  many  factitious  details ;  but  is  this  enough  to  make 
us  forgo  enjoying  that  perfume  of  youthfulness,  that  imaginative  sup¬ 
pleness  which,  on  the  island  of  Calixite,  associates  Claudel’s  fate  with 
Suzanne’s  polished  heels?  Doubtless  this  grace  would  not  suffice  for 
us  to  dare  to  recall  that  such  impressionism  derives  from  Claude 
Monet  and  Claude  Debussy ;  but  Giraudoux  is  also  the  author  of 
Simon  Le  Pathetique,  a  precious  book  in  which  the  hero  and  the  three 
heroines  are  not  unworthy  of  such  illustrious  masters,  a  breviary  of 
delicately  sensual  intelligence  containing  the  confession  of  a  duplicity 
which  we  could  not  reproach  without  condemning  ourselves  to  exclu¬ 
sion  from  it :  “I  should  prefer  to  know  nothing  of  myself  and  not  to 
tear  from  my  eyes  the  bandage  which  bound  also,  gently  pressed 
against  my  own,  the  head  of  love.” 

9.  WOMEN  NOVELISTS 

It  has  often  been  remarked  that,  of  all  literary  forms,  the  novel  is 
that  in  which  women  succeed  best.  We  have  seen  that  Le  Visage  emer- 
uettle  and  Le  Temps  d' aimer  were  not  unworthy  of  the  poems  of  Anna 
de  Noailles  and  of  Gerard  d’Houville.  Lucie  Delarue-Mardrus  has 
also  known  success  as  a  novelist  from  the  time  of  Le  Roman  de  six 
petites  filles,  childhood  memories  alternatingly  amusing  and  sentimen¬ 
tal,  to  VEx-Voto,  in  which  she  evokes  in  Honfleur,  her  native  town, 
the  wild  loves  of  a  “little  pirate.” 

Marcelle  Tinayre  is  too  often  content  to  furnish  her  feminine  read¬ 
ers  with  the  agreeable,  easy  novel  they  expect,  and  no  one  will  be  sur¬ 
prised  to  note  obvious  titles  in  the  list  of  her  works:  U Amour  qui 
pleure,  Avant  V amour,  L' Ombre  de  V amour.  La  Vie  amour euse  de 
Francois  Barbazanges.  Her  style  remains  inexorably  conventional 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  331 

and  clothes  a  thought  which  strives  to  be  free  and  comprehensive,  with 
a  commonplace  cloak.  Helle  does  indeed  contain  aspirations  after 
beauty  and  justice  transcending  the  ordinary  love-story.  Paganism 
too  envelopes  the  rather  commonplace  adventure  of  Persephone  with 
great  memories,  and  Le  Maison  du  Peche  would  deserve  to  survive 
if,  in  this  thrilling  story  of  a  love  crossed  by  Jansenism,  the  psycholo¬ 
gist  were  not  so  often  badly  served  by  the  writer.  This  absence  of 
style  is  moreover  the  most  sensible  weakness  in  numerous  feminine 
novels.  That  defect  has  left  a  provisional  character  to  Daniel 
Lesueur’s  most  conscientious  pictures.  It  renders  intolerable  the 
loquacity  of  Marcelle  Vioux,  the  gossip  of  Gabriel  Reval,  the  inof¬ 
fensive  audacities  of  Renee  Dunan.  It  spoils  even  the  fresh  Algerian 
evocations  of  Magali  Boisnard  ( Maadith  and  U Enfant  taciturne ). 
It  also  arrests  the  reader  of  La  Mer  Rouge,  a  dramatic  novel  of 
Jewish  manners  and  customs  in  Algiers  by  Maximilienne  Heller. 
No  one  then  will  blame  Balkis  for  having,  in  Personne  and  En  Marge 
de  la  Bible,  gone  to  school  with  Gide,  then  with  truculent  Symbolists 
before  displaying,  in  a  personal  form,  the  qualities  which  will  doubt¬ 
less  assure  an  originality  in  her  next  Oriental  fictions. 

Feminine  sensibility  could  not  remain  deaf  to  the  call  of  exoticism. 
Judith  Gautier  was  one  of  the  revealers  of  the  Far  East.  Translator 
of  La  Marchande  de  sourires  and  of  L’Avare  chinois,  she  has,  in 
Les  Parfmns  de  la  pagode,  given  some  of  the  prettiest  legends  of  China 
and  Japan.  Jules  Lemaitre  once  discovered  in  Miriam  Harry  who 
has  Jewish  Slav  and  German  blood  in  her  veins  and  for  whom  French 
is  an  adopted  language,  an  “Aisse  of  the  novel  of  these  latter  years.” 
For  a  long  time,  from  La  Conquete  de  Jerusalem  to  Tunis  la  Blanche, 
she  has  painted  Impressionist  canvases.  The  adventures  of  L’lle 
de  Volupte  and  La  Divine  Chanson  were  associated  also  with  exotic 
landscapes.  She  has  lent  her  own  sentimental  and  intellectual  evolu¬ 
tion  to  the  Siona  of  her  trilogy  the  first  volume  of  which  was  ap¬ 
propriately  dedicated  to  Lemaitre  “who  delivered  me  from  Roman¬ 
ticism.” 

Lucie  Cousturier  has,  on  the  contrary,  in  Des  Inconnus  cliez  moi,  un¬ 
dertaken  to  show  how  far  our  civilization  is  inferior  to  the  fresh,  new 
imagination  of  the  Senegalese  sharpshooters  of  whom  she  drew  pretty 
portraits.  Beginning  with  Saada  la  Marocaine,  Elissa  Rhais  has 
shown  that  she  kept  of  exoticism  merely  a  superficial  picturesqueness. 
Thus  she  has  never  risen  above  the  alert  journalism  which  animates 
certain  descriptions  in  Les  Juifs  ou  la  Fille  d'Eleazar.  On  the  other 
hand,  she  has  fallen  into  the  most  commonplace  department-store 
Arabesque  with  three  melodramatically  prosaic  tales  in  Cafe  Chan - 


332  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

tant.  In  vain  would  be  sought  there  the  penetrating  accent,  the  spon¬ 
taneous  communion  with  the  things  and  the  beings  of  North  Africa 
which  will  cause  Isabelle  Eberhardt’s  work  to  survive.  Mussulman 
and  Russian,  the  author  of  Trimardeur  and  Dans  V Ombre  chaude  de 
VIslam  easily  reconciles  Arab  fatalism  and  Slav  compassion:  “We 
are  all  poor  wretches  and  those  who  do  not  want  to  understand  us 
are  even  poorer  than  we.” 

Neel  Doff  forms  a  natural  transition  between  the  exotics  and  the 
rebels.  Jours  de  la  famine  et  de  detresse — this  title  sums  up  her  whole 
inspiration.  Her  Contes  farouches  tells  with  savage  brutality  of 
wretched,  tragic  lives  in  Amsterdam,  on  the  island  of  Walcheren  and 
in  the  Campine.  In  Keetje  the  heroine  occasionally  leaves  her  Am¬ 
sterdam  and  her  Brussels  to  travel  in  Germany  and  in  France;  and 
in  the  same  way  the  realism  is  touched  at  times  with  a  noble  artistic 
emotion  and  with  a  pity  akin  to  Dostoievsky’s. 

Universally  known  as  a  polemical  writer,  Severine  is  the  author  of 
Les  Pages  rouges,  of  Les  Notes  d'une  frondeuse  and  of  numerous  viru¬ 
lent  articles.  No  book  better  reveals  her  talent  and  her  great  heart 
than  her  Line  dedicated  “to  all  those  whose  brow  has  been  kissed,  from 
the  cradle,  by  revolt.”  This  story  of  a  little  girl,  “of  a  wild  duck 
hatched  in  the  barnyard,”  permits  her  to  evoke  with  humour  and  pas¬ 
sion,  in  an  eloquent,  often  pert  style,  her  own  memories,  the  first  awak¬ 
ening  of  a  soul  ever  eager  for  justice,  full  of  pity  for  all  those  who 
are  oppressed,  and  harsh  only  for  the  enemies  of  free  life  and  thought. 

Magdeleine  Marx’s  books  have,  up  to  the  present,  been  the  novels  of 
the  woman  in  search  of  herself — in  Femme  through  voluptuous  love, 
maternal  love  and  Death ;  in  Toi  through  men,  the  masses  and  God. 
The  confusion  of  this  quest  is  augmented  by  a  lyric  feverishness  which 
is  somewhat  artificial,  even  if,  as  everything  seems  to  indicate,  it  is 
spontaneously  artificial. 

Simpler  but  no  less  determined,  Marguerite  Audoux — who  was 
brought  up  by  the  Sisters  in  an  orphan  asylum,  then  became  a  shep¬ 
herdess  in  Sologne  and  finally  a  seamstress  in  Paris — has  told  the  story 
of  her  life  in  Marie-Claire  and  U Atelier  de  Marie-Claire  with  a 
remarkable  sobriety  and  a  feeling  for  the  chosen  detail  admired  by 
Philippe  and  Mirbeau.  Her  last  book  paints  all  the  seamy  side  of 
“Paris,  woman’s  paradise,”  and  her  Naturalism  is  a  true  realism  be¬ 
cause  it  is  based  upon  a  true  thing:  the  very  soul  of  the  craft,  more 
enduring  than  the  ephemeral  creatures  who  practise  it. 

“I  am  deceived  in  everything  if  I  bore,  for  that  is  the  sole  right  I 
have  not  considered  mine.”  To  this  sentence  of  Aurel’s  in  the  preface 
to  Les  Jeux  de  la  flamme  frankly  presenting  the  question,  it  is  loval 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  333 

to  reply  that  this  so-called  novel  is  terribly  tedious.  The  monotony 
of  the  tone,  even  in  the  letters  and  dialogues,  the  puerile  didacticism  of 
a  writer  for  whom  everything  that  comes  from  her  pen  is  equally  sa¬ 
cred,  soon  manage  to  kill  the  interest  at  first  aroused  by  the  promise 
of  a  book  “written  in  the  eagerness  to  be  true” ;  and  he  who  is  willing 
to  read  to  the  very  end  Le  Couple,  essai  d’entente,  where  love-ornament, 
love-force  and  the  power  of  the  woman  who  reconciles  Jesus  and  Nietz¬ 
sche,  are  described  in  the  same  restless  style,  should  expect  no  other 
reward  than  the  perverse  pleasure  of  having,  at  every  page,  been 
pitilessly  convinced  of  a  useless  effort. 

There  has  always  been  in  Rachilde  a  candid  appetite  for  violence, 
evident  as  early  as  Monsieur  Venus,  “a  materialistic  novel”  in  which 
a  young  girl  plays  at  the  male  whose  instinct  she  feels  towards  a  man- 
woman — a  book  very  like  those  scarecrows  which,  when  we  approach 
them,  we  regret  to  find  have  usurped  their  reputation.  In  L’Heure 
sexuelle  one  of  Cleopatra’s  lovers  finds  her  in  the  form  of  a  prostitute 
whom  he  is  unable  to  wrest  from  her  former  lover  just  out  of  prison. 
Abandoned,  there  is  nothing  further  left  for  him  but  to  make  “a  little 
art  out  of  all  my  grief” ;  but  this  art  confines  itself  to  piecing  together 
the  remains  of  Romanticism  and  of  Symbolism.  Le  Dessous  pits  bour¬ 
geoisie  and  anarchy  in  a  truly  childish  conflict.  Childish  too  is  the 
bogy  picture  of  Hors  Nature  which  seems  composed  of  parodies  of  Vil- 
liers  by  Peladan.  Rachilde  has  wished  to  be  the  Villiers  of  a  perverse 
aristocracy.  She  appears  above  all  its  Bourget  in  Le  Grand 
Saigneur,  a  novel  about  a  vampire  which  terribly  justifies  the  quip 
of  one  of  its  characters:  “We  wonder  why  women  prefer  the  stories  of 
the  other  world  to  the  pleasures  of  this.” 

Between  these  studio  truculences  and  the  harmless  prose  of  Les 
Regeac  come  the  works  which  show  in  Rachilde  a  vigorous  story¬ 
teller.  Such  is  Les  Meneur  de  louves,  a  tale  of  the  time  of  Chilperic, 
inspired  by  Gregory  of  Tours,  an  epic  of  the  two  princesses  Basine 
and  Chrodielde,  of  Harog,  “first  French  knight”  who  lived,  fought 
and  died  for  his  lady ;  and  no  one  will  question  the  sombre  beauty  of 
La  Tour  d' Amour  where  the  agonizing  life  of  the  two  guardians  of  the 
lighthouse  of  Ar-Men  is  powerfully  described  in  an  atmosphere  of 
sexual  madness  and  extravagant  nightmare.  There  the  tense  effort 
of  Rachilde  has  really  attained  its  end,  the  creation  of  a  spell. 

Compared  with  these  massive  constructions,  Colette’s  art  may  at 
first  seem  slight,  since  it  is  inspired  solely  by  sensation;  but  her  sen¬ 
sations  are  so  profound  and  so  subtle  and  she  translates  them  with  so 
precise  a  felicity,  in  so  complete  an  abstraction  of  everything  not 
sensation,  that  this  body  of  work  soon  establishes  its  claim  as  one  of  the 


334.  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

most  original  of  our  epoch :  “The  earth  belongs  to  him  who  halts  an 
instant,  contemplates  and  goes  away.  The  whole  sun  is  the  property 
of  the  naked  lizard  which  warms  itself  in  it.”  Thus  the  more  instinc¬ 
tive  creatures,  the  animals,  must  be  placed  in  the  first  rank  of  her 
characters.  The  Sept  Dialogues  de  betes  and  La  Paix  chez  les  betes 
belong  to  them.  With  a  witty,  clairvoyant  tenderness,  Colette  has  im¬ 
mortalized  Toby-Chien  and  Kiki-la-Doucette,  and  the  cats  which  “play 
a  trifle  fiercely,”  so  like  us  in  pleasure  and  mystery.  She  has  received 
the  confidences  of  the  learned  animals  and  of  the  beasts  transformed 
into  trinkets.  She  has  followed  “the  broken  circles  of  the  bat  which 
squeaks  as  it  flies,  like  a  nail  on  a  pane.”  She  has  shared  their  fierce 
desire  for  independence.  When  Lola,  in  L’ Envers  dw  music-hall,  cries : 
“I’m  not  an  imprisoned  princess,  but  a  bitch,  a  real  bitch,  with  a 
bitch’s  heart,”  she  expresses  the  rebellion  of  all  Colette’s  beasts. 

Of  all  her  women,  too.  For  if  Colette  finds  resemblances  between 
the  beasts  and  “the  Two  Paws,”  it  is  not  to  disguise  animals  as  men, 
like  the  writers  of  fables.  She  excels,  on  the  contrary,  in  combining 
them,  in  uniting  the  woman  and  the  bitch,  both  jealous,  in  an  awaken¬ 
ing  of  instinct,  in  evoking  “mingled  arms  and  paws,  a  brief,  furtive 
and  fraternal  embrace.”  One  of  her  greatest  merits  is  to  have  painted 
physical  pleasure  without  flinching,  neither  glorifying  nor  sham¬ 
ing  it.  This  aspiration,  unique  and  complex,  forms  the  charm  of  her 
heroines :  Minne  who  “raises  to  her  husband  the  flattering  bruise 
of  her  eyes  whence  the  mystery  has  fled” ;  the  Claudine  of  La  Retraite 
sentimentale  “who  turns  away  her  attentive,  confused  eyes  at  the 
moment  when  she  gives  herself  wholly”  ;  the  Renee  of  La  V agabonde,  a 
“fox  weary  of  having  danced,  captive,  to  the  sound  of  music,”  who,  in 
L’Entrave,  confesses  knowing  “hours  when  I  rather  enjoy  being  a  fe¬ 
male”  ;  Mitsou,  concerning  whom  we  share  Lieutenant  Bleu’s  astonish¬ 
ment  “that  a  little  girl,  gladly  naked,  can  hide  so  much  of  herself.” 
This  voluptuous  movement,  “the  intelligent  joy  of  the  flesh  which  im¬ 
mediately  recognizes  its  master,”  is  the  mainspring  of  Colette’s  books. 

Should  we  call  novels  these  narrations  of  novelized  life  in  which 
men,  as  soon  as  they  are  in  love,  that  is  to  say  unified  by  desire  and 
“their  somewhat  loose  trickery,”  scarcely  exist  save  for  their  physical 
differences?  Maxime,  Jean  and  Cheri  are  but  pretexts  for  Renee  and 
the  touching  Nounoune  to  love  and  to  suffer.  They  take  on  again  a 
relief  only  when  they  are  released  from  love — when,  like  the  actor 
Brague  or  the  dubious  Masseau,  they  form  part  of  a  setting.  Painter 
of  settings,  Colette  has  proved  her  talent  in  the  most  diverse  forms. 
“As  if  there  Was  nothing  urgent  in  the  world  but  my  desire  to  possess 
the  marvels  of  the  earth  through  my  eyes,”  she  has,  in  La  Retraite  sen- 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  NOVEL  335 

tvmentale  and  Les  Vrilles  de  la  vigne,  drawn  landscapes  delicately  har¬ 
monious  with  her  sensuality.  She  has  beguiled  the  emptiness  of  Les 
Heures  longues  with  fine  sketches.  She  has  described  the  picturesque 
cafe-concert,  the  lamentable  wings,  the  tours,  finally,  mingling  in  the 
departures  the  sadness  of  a  little  homekeeping  bourgeoise  “with  the 
brilliant  dart  of  the  serpent  shedding  its  dead  skin.” 

There  is  nothing  less  classical,  in  appearance,  than  this  savage  in¬ 
spiration  on  which  the  style  puts  its  artifice :  “A  little  blue  kohl  be¬ 
tween  the  lashes,  on  my  cheeks  the  cloud  of  ecru  powder  the  colour  of 
my  skin,  biting  to  perk  up  my  mouth” ;  but  Colette  possesses  another 
arm  beside  the  derisory  lipstick:  “No  other  delirium  than  that  of  my 
senses.  Alas!  There  are  none  whose  truces  are  more  lucid.”  No 
sooner  freed  than  the  “banana-coloured”  arm  seizes  the  pen  of  a  born 
writer.  Art  guides  the  tender  memory  which  makes  the  infallible 
phrase  tremble :  “A  long,  almost  stationary,  drowsy  kiss — the  slow 
crushing,  one  against  the  other,  of  two  flowers  in  which  the  palpitation 
of  the  twin  coupled  pistils  alone  vibrates.”  Colette’s  prose  has  rhythms 
as  pliant  as  creepers,  and  her  caprice  denies  the  monuments  it 
has  just  constructed  out  of  her  sensations:  “Make  a  sign,  the  wind 
will  sit  lightly  on  the  dune,  and  will  amuse  itself,  with  a  breath,  in 
changing  the  form  of  the  moving  hills.”  Of  the  moving  hills  the  vaga¬ 
bond  has  reared,  more  than  one  is  already  preserved  from  the  whim 
of  the  wandering  wind. 


CHAPTER  XI 


SOME  TENDENCIES 

THIS  chapter  will  not  be  a  gallery  of  honour,  an  exhibition  of 
contemporary  masterpieces.  Its  aim  is  to  bring  together  im¬ 
partially — free  later  to  discuss  them  partially — several 
prose-writers  who  exceed  the  limits  of  the  novel  or  the  essay  and  whose 
works  seem  sufficiently  representative  of  the  influences  which  operate 
upon  French  sensibility  to-day. 

1.  FROM  STENDHAL  TO  GOBINEAU 

If  Bourget  undertook  to  rewrite  his  Essais  after  thirty  years, 
he  would  not  have  to  diminish  Stendhal’s  place  in  them ;  but  per¬ 
haps  he  would  have  to  increase  that  of  Henri  Beyle,  or  rather  of  Arigo 
Beyle,  Milanese,  that  engaging  being,  half  real,  half  invented  by  his 
brother  Henry  Brulard.  For,  however  lasting  his  romantic  creations 
may  be,  the  numerous  documents  published  since  1880  have  confirmed 
the  presentiment  that  the  man  in  his  work  was  even  more  attractive 
than  the  novelist.  The  master  psychologist  of  Le  Rouge  et  le  Noir  is 
no  longer  questioned.  The  pages  on  crystallization  have  become  class¬ 
ics.  Thus  our  admiration,  which  would  consent  to  sacrifice  nothing  of 
“his  whole  world,”  prefers  to  explore  the  voluntarily  mysterious  nar¬ 
ratives  like  Armance,  the  scintillating  Lucien  Leuwen  in  which  Stendhal 
gives  a  double  picture  of  himself  as  the  rich  young  man  he  was  not  and 
the  intelligent  father  Fate  refused  him,  the  chapters  of  La  Chartreuse 
and  the  Chroniques  italiennes  in  which  he  freely  expresses  his  religion 
of  energy,  his  passion  for  “I’arte  de  godere,  the  art  of  enjoying  life.” 
Above  all  the  fervour  of  the  Beylists  finds  food  in  his  autobiographies, 
from  the  Journal  in  which  he  forms  himself  “analytically”  and  by 
“reading  in  his  sensations,”  to  the  Souvenirs  d’egotisme  where  he 
who,  seeking  “whatever  is  real  in  love,”  had  so  often  the  aspect  of  an 
“unhappy  lover,”  comments  each  fiasco  and  each  triumph  of  his  two¬ 
fold  career.  There  his  head  is  really  as  he  defined  it,  “a  magic 
lantern.”  In  it  reappears  a  world  where  Stendhal  is  the  Fabrice 
or  the  Julien.  Nothing  surpasses  the  interest  of  these  two  con¬ 
fessions,  unless  perhaps  it  be  the  book  which  an  ever-increasing  num¬ 
ber  of  votes  "designate  as  Stendhal’s  masterpiece,  the  Vie  d'LLenri 

336 


SOME  TENDENCIES  337 

Brulard,  an  incomparable  document  of  which  the  author  was  able  to 
say :  “I  make  great  discoveries  concerning  myself  in  writing  these 
memoirs.  The  difficulty  is  no  longer  to  find  and  to  tell  the  truth,  but 
to  find  who  will  read  it.”  Nowhere  has  Stendhal,  “that  precursor 
and  admirable  diviner”  hailed  by  Nietzsche,  more  completely  mastered 
the  high  ideal  formulated  by  him  in  his  reply  to  Balzac:  “I  do  not 
wish  to  fascinate  the  reader’s  soul  by  artificial  means  ...  I  seek  to 
tell  truthfully  and  clearly  what  takes  place  in  my  heart.”  Thus  is 
explained  why  his  influence  should  henceforth  go  counter  to  those  with 
whom  his  first  success  was  associated.  He  turns  his  present  disciples 
from  Flaubert’s  massive  masonry,  from  oratorical  systematizations 
in  the  manner  of  Taine,  from  the  arbitrary  Bourget.  He  had  fixed 
two  rendezvous  for  posterity:  1880  and  1935.  Stendhal’s  greatness 
will  be  better  measured  when,  in  him  chosen  by  1880  as  a  master  of 
discipline,  1935  will  have  recognized  a  master  of  liberty. 

Whoever  intends  to  test  the  sincerity  of  his  Beylism  will  probably  be 
obliged  to  carry  it  as  far  as  Gobinism.  Arthur  de  Gobineau,  unrecog¬ 
nized  like  Stendhal  by  his  contemporaries,  has  since  then  enjoyed  a  just 
revenge.  For  Renan  and  Taine  he  was  merely  a  curious  character. 
Dying  in  1882*  quickly  popular  in  Germany  where  he  influenced 
Wagner,  Nietzsche  and  Chamberlain,  he  was  not  revealed  to  the  larger 
French  public  until  1904.  He  has  become,  now,  for  Stendhal,  on 
the  shelves  of  our  libraries,  the  companion  Merimee  never  deserved  to 
be.  No  doubt  the  theorist  Gobineau  indubitably  was  has  prevented 
liis  century  from  justly  recognizing  the  writer  we  love  in  him.  En¬ 
amoured  of  “moral  geology,”  he  devoted  himself  to  the  pursuit  of  a 
morality — beauty,  strength  and  intelligence^ — destined  for  an  elite. 
He  thought  he  could  find  this  elite  turn  by  turn  in  the  race,  the  im1 
dividual  and  the  family.  Starting  from  the  “Aryan,”  he  only  suc¬ 
ceeded,  through  the  Essai  sur  Vinegalite  des  races  humaines,  the  His- 
toire  des  Perses  and  that  of  Ottar  Jarl,  pirate  norvegien,  in  coming 
back  to  M.  le  Comte  de  Gobineau  whom,  to  tell  the  truth,  he  had  never 
left  to  any  great  extent. 

To  whom,  however,  he  had  annexed  the  universe.  Diplomatist  and 
great  traveller,  he  revealed'  Babism  to  the  Occident  and  translated  the 
Discours  sur  la  Methode  for  the  Persians,  taking  good  care  not  to 
carry  them  Spinoza  and  Hegel,  “Asiatic  minds  which  could  not  in¬ 
troduce  really  new  elements  among  them,”  thus  favouring  the  mixtures 
which,  as  a  theorist,  he  deplores  and  which,  as  an  artist,  he  enjoys. 
For  if  he  holds  that  the  origin  of  the  sensual  arts  is  “hidden  in  the 
blood  of  the  coloured  races,”  he  quickly  resigns  himself  to  the  disci¬ 
plining  of  this  obscure  instinct.  “Artistic  genius,  equally  foreign  to 


338  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  three  great  types,  sprang  up  only  as  a  sequel  to  the  union  of  the 
whites  with  the  blacks.”  That  is  our  consolation  for  many  “degenera¬ 
tions.”  He  did  not  moreover  claim  for  himself  the  least  infallibility : 
“My  theory  has  been  what  it  was,  with  its  weakness  and  its  strength, 
its  exactness  and  its  share  of  errors,  like  all  human  divinations.”  Thus 
he  wrote  thirty  years  after  the  first  edition  of  the  Essai;  but,  from 
the  beginning,  a  sceptical  epigram  tempered  his  dogmatism.  “I  ab¬ 
solutely  reject  that  method  of  arguing  which  consists  in  saying  every 
Negro  is  stupid,  and  my  principal  reason  for  rejecting  it  is  that  I 
should  be  forced  to  recognize,  by  compensation,  that  every  European 
is  intelligent;  and  I  am  a  hundred  leagues  from  such  a  paradox.”  To 
the  last,  as  indicated  by  the  preface  to  Amadis,  he  contended  that 
curiosity  thus  directed  is  the  mind’s  staunchest  virtue :  “What  is 
learned  is  only  a  door  opened  on  immensity.  The  more  openings  there 
are,  the  further  the  look  penetrates  it.” 

This  irony,  with  this  ease  of  understanding,  is  Gobineau’s  most 
precious  quality  as  a  story-teller.  In  him  as  in  Stendhal  the  style 
is  inseparable  from  the  narrative — the  narrative  from  the  narrator. 
Here,  however,  is  seen  Gobineau’s  weakness.  He  often  lacked  what  he 
declared,  in  an  admirable  scene  in  La  Renaissance,  Raphael’s  supreme 
prerogative,  he  lacked  “happiness.”  His  form  possesses  all  the  charm 
of  improvisation,  of  the  brilliant  conversation  which  made  too  great  a 
demand  for  thinking  upon  his  hearers.  It  rarely  attains  that  stark 
originality,  perfect  adequation  of  the  thought  and  of  the  words,  which 
is  almost  constant  in  Stendhal — a  misfortune  all  the  wreater  because 

O 

it  manifested  itself  especially  in  the  wox-ks  where  Gobineau  aims  at 
literature,  as  for  example  his  Amadis,  an  allegorical  ehivalric  poem 
in  which  there  is  everything  save  poetry. 

Yet  there  are  many  resemblances  between  this  tedious  Amadis  and 
U  Abb  aye  de  Typhaines,  which  makes  very  agreeable  reading.  The 
reason  is  that  here  Gobineau  improvises,  like  an  aristocrat  who,  in 
spite  of  his  esteem  for  the  bourgeois  Simon  (“he  belonged  visibly  to 
the  race  of  the  strong!”),  never  forgets  he  is  telling  a  story  of 
churls.  Gobineau’s  tone  is  inimitable  when  he  dominates  his  subject. 
Hence  the  brilliance  of  Adelaide  in  which  a  man  who  is  nothing  but 
a  “badly  constructed  steam-engine”  succumbs  under  the  tenderness  of 
a  woman  and  of  a  “little  Satan.”  Hence  the  relief,  in  Mademoiselle 
Irnois,  of  “the  positive  man,”  Comte  de  Cabarot,  and  of  the  pro¬ 
tagonist,  “an  indifferent  rogue,”  but  “sufficiently  inept.”  Hence  the 
irresistible  movement  of  Scaramouche  in  which  he  amuses  himself  by 
conducting  mere  puppets  through  an  outworn  plot  “without  wearying 
the  reader  with  any  digression  .  .  .  without  the  aid  of  any  psycholog- 


•s 


SOME  TENDENCIES  339 

ical  analysis.”  A  courteous  contempt  is  at  the  base  of  this  first 
Gobineau.  At  thirty,  writing  Ternove,  he  chooses  as  his  hero  a  young 
scatterbrain,  enjoys  taking  him  to  pieces,  then  leaves  in  the  lurch 
“this  pygmy  crying  because  he  had  wished  to  play  the  part  of  Al- 
cides.”  When  he  abandoned  fiction  for  ethnography,  M.  de  Gobineau 
had  no  illusion:  “He  knew  that  the  heart  denies  itself  the  frankest 
remedies  and  that,  once  it  starts,  it  must  be  given  the  line  like  a 
struggling  fish.”  He  knew  too  that  “the  blond  are  endowed  with  a 
well-known  power  of  obstinacy.”  He  travelled,  from  Newfoundland 
to  Teheran  and  from  Athens  to  Stockholm. 

He  returned  to  light  literature  in  1872  with  Souvenirs  de  voyage 
quickly  followed  by  the  works  which  will  make  his  name  famous :  Les 
Pleiades  (1874),  Nouvelles  asiatiques  (1870)?  La  Renaissance  (1877). 
It  is  probably  with  the  Souvenirs  de  Voyage  one  should  begin  reading 
Gobineau.  Le  Mouchoir  rouge  shows  how  he  treats  a  subject  which 
might  have  been  Stendhalian.  La  Chasse  au  caribou  is  one  of  the 
,  triumphs  of  his  humour.  Alcrivie  Phrangopoulo  is  fragrant  through¬ 
out  with  a  diffused  irony.  The  six  Asiatic  tales  add  to  that  absence 
of  prejudice  which  characterizes  Gobineau  an  accent  of  real  tender- 
i  ness.  Asiatics  were  for  him  what  the  Italians  were  for  Stendhal. 
He  saw  them  as  “lovers  of  the  unexpected  .  .  .  eager  for  emotions 
...  full  of  passion  finally  for  the  present  sensation.”  As  he  did 
!  not  belong  to  the  “parasitic  sect”  of  the  moralists,  he  loved  their 
i  picturesque  violences  described  in  Les  Amants  de  Kandahar.  His 
,  irony  made  itself  their  accomplice  in  La  Guerre  des  Turcomans.  Their 
[  poetry — that  of  the  Arabian  Nights — bloomed  again  in  L'lllustre 
Magicien.  Lastly,  he  has  drawn  that  definitive  picture  of  their  nomad 
existence.  La  Vie  de  voyage. 

Thereby  Gobineau  is  great.  He  is  great  also  in  that  extraordinary 
,  psychological  and  lyrical  novel,  Les  Pleiades,  where  he  presents  in  the 
,  most  alluring  form,  with  perpetual  flights  of  imagination  and  of  mis¬ 
chief,  the  profoundly  human  element  in  his  theories  by  opposing  the 
i  morality  of  the  masters  and  that  of  the  slaves.  Les  Pleiades  tells 
the  adventures  of  “three  calendars,  king’s  sons,”  who  haughtily  cleave 
I  the  crowd  of  idiots,  rogues  and  brutes.  This  book  is  Gobineau’s  Char¬ 
treuse  and  Stendhal  would  have  loved  Prince  Jean-Theodore.  He 
would  have  approved  that,  after  this  epic  poem  of  honour  and  asceti¬ 
cism,  Gobineau  should  have  gone  to  ask  the  Italians  of  the  great  period 
for  confirmation  of  his  dearest  ideas.  La  Renaissance  forms  a  series 
,  of  historical  scenes  for  which  certain  personages,  Machiavelli  and 
Michelangelo,  serve  as  a  spiritual  link.  When  Gobineau  wrote  it,  he 
.  had  reached  “one  of  those  tablelands  where  the  flowers  become  rarer 


340  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

and  the  horizons  more  severe.”  He  saw  the  beauty  of  those  tumultu¬ 
ous  souls,  full  of  “the  eternal  splendour  of  life.”  He  extolled  the 
energy  of  Caesar  Borgia  “before  the  lion’s  muzzle,”  that  of  Michelan¬ 
gelo  who  “wished  to  seize  nature  by  each  of  its  anfractuosities  at  the 
same  time,”  of  all  the  men  who  cried :  “As  long  as  I  exist  the  world  is 
mine !  My  foot  is  on  it !”  Admirable  by  the  vigour  of  its  dramatic 
accent,  the  breadth  of  its  political  and  artistic  views,  La  Renaissance  is 
the  magnificent  breviary  of  that  exacting  heroism  defined  by  Gobineau : 
“The  great  law  of  the  world  is  to  live,  to  grow  and  to  develop  what  is 
most  energetic  and  greatest  in  oneself,  so  that  from  any  sphere  whatso¬ 
ever  one  can  always  strive  to  pass  into  a  larger,  airier,  higher  one.” 

“Pass  before  us  and  forgive  us  our  happiness.”  Thus,  before 
a  sick  man,  the  voice  of  Dostoievsky’s  Nuichkine  replies  to  the 
proud  voice  of  the  individualist.  Our  age,  which  is  not  deaf  to  the 
appeal  of  Stendhal  and  of  Gobineau,  has  listened  also  to  the  lesson 
of  renunciation  taught  by  the  man  of  genius  who  wrote  The  Idiot . 
It  knows  that,  at  certain  hours,  sacrifice  crowns  self-assertion  with¬ 
out  annihilating  it.  “Ideas,”  wrote  Gobineau,  “are  cross-roads 
whence  depart  a  vast  number  of  very  divergent  routes.”  Perhaps  a 
great  artist  will  be  born  to-morrow  at  these  cross-roads. 

2.  INTELLIGENCE  AND  INTUITION 

“Twice  two  make  four  is  already  no  longer  life,  gentlemen.  It  is 
the  beginning  of  death  ...  I  agree  that  twice  two  make  four  is  a 
very  pretty  thing;  but,  at  bottom,  twice  two  make  five  is  not  bad 
either.”  In  this  passage  of  The  Underground  Spirit,  Dostoievsky 
had  evoked  the  duel  between  intelligence  and  intuition  under  the  form 
in  which  it  presents  itself  to  the  artist.  At  the  end  of  the  nineteenth 
century  Henri  Bergson’s  philosophy  came  to  furnish  the  champions  of 
intuition  new  reasons  for  believing  in  their  goddess.  Perhaps  their 
faith  simplified  a  rather  complex  thought.  It  was  an  inevitable  de¬ 
formation  and  since  then  we  have  known  a  literary  Einstein  and  a 
literary  Freud  whom  these  savants  would  disavow.  Here  again,  fol¬ 
lowing  Mallarme’s  advice,  the  man  must  be  taken  with  the  legend. 

“The  history  of  the  evolution  of  life,”  writes  Bergson,  “shows  us, 
in  the  faculty  of  comprehension,  an  annex  of  the  faculty  of  acting.” 
Intelligence  can  perfectly  well  comprehend  time,  it  will  not  grasp 
“duration  in  its  original  purity.”  Returning  to  the  Pascalian  criti¬ 
cism,  he  brings  the  intelligence  back  to  the  geometrical  spirit ;  but  he 
observes  that  life  has  developed  along  other  lines.  Appealing  to  the 
forces  of  instinct  and  intuition  could  there  not  be  obtained  “a  con- 


SOME  TENDENCIES  341 

sciousness  coextensive  with  life,”  capable  of  re-creating  of  it  “a  vision 
integral,  though  doubtless  evanescent”?  Thus  armed,  the  vital  move¬ 
ment  would  consist  “in  an  irresistible  charge  capable  of  overthrowing 
every  resistance  and  of  overcoming  many  obstacles — perhaps  death  it¬ 
self.  It  is  not  surprising  the  poets  should  have  seen  in  these  lines 
an  echo  of  Rimbaud’s  motto:  “Become  a  visionary.”  Bergson  con¬ 
tributed  still  further  to  their  liberation  when  he  destroyed  the  notion 
of  disorder,  substituting  for  it  that  of  an  artistic  order  “which  is  the 
quality  of  genius,  originality  and  consequently  unforeseeability 
even.  From  this  doctrine,  the  zealous  disciples  found  some  difficulty 
in  extracting  a  system  of  morals.  The  Symbolists  on  the  contrary, 
even  the  Dadaists,  claim  the  support  of  the  thinker  who  has  denounced 
the  crimes  of  intelligence  and  of  its  instrument,  language.  “The 
brutal  word  .  .  .  crushes  or  at  least  covers  over  the  delicate  or 
fugitive  impressions  of  our  individual  consciousness.” 

The  end  of  Bergsonism  is  the  search  for  the  liberty  residing  in  the 
depths  of  the  ego.  Several  have  remarked  that  this  analyst,  implac¬ 
able  as  an  examining  magistrate,  did  not  possess  the  style  they  might 
have  expected  from  his  doctrine.  It  is  only  to  awaken  or  to  extol  this 
liberty  that  Bergson’s  prose,  so  firm  in  its  subtlety,  consents  to  adorn 
itself  with  an  image,  whether  he  wishes,  in  the  Essai  sur  les  donnees  im~ 
mediates,  to  invite  the  consciousness  to  sweep  away  the  dead  leaves 
encumbering  the  surface  of  its  pool;  to  show  at  the  apex  of  the  cone, 
in  Mature  et  Memoir e,  the  contact  between  the  body  and  the  mind, 
or  to  magnify  finally,  in  L’ Evolution  creatrice,  the  grandiose  Wag¬ 
nerian  cavalcade  of  integral  life. 

“I  offer  my  readers  the  effort  of  a  thought  which  seeks  to  escape 
from  the  constraint  of  what  has  previously  been  constructed  for 
|  everyone,  and  which  wishes  to  find  something  personal.”  This  horror 
of  the  ready-made  everywhere  expressed  by  Georges  Sorel  is  one  of 
the  reasons  for  his  Bergsonism.  He  is  Bergsonian  by  virtue  at  once 
of  his  “strong  metaphysical  preoccupations”  and  of  his  Pragmatism. 
He  was  capable  of  contradicting  himself  violently  without  his  essen¬ 
tial  characteristics  ever  being  altered.  Dreyfusist  and  Syndicalist, 
the  author  of  Les  Illusions  du  progres  and  of  La  Decomposition  du 
marxisme  could  appear  reactionary  when  he  declared  the  failure  of 
Marx,  the  inadequacy  of  the  remedies  whereby  Proudhon  thought  to 
heal  the  complex  evil  of  modern  society,  the  moments  when  Jaures  flung 
across  the  gulfs  the  fragile  footbridge  of  his  eloquence.  To  incrimi¬ 
nate  him  would  be  to  fail  to  recognize  the  pessimistic  conception  upon 
which  the  whole  of  this  study  rests.  Deceived  by  the  men  in  whom  he 
I  put  his  confidence,  he  preserves  his  ideal  intact. 


342  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

This  ideal  Sorel  takes  for  granted  when  he  concludes  that  ‘’the 
difficulty  of  modern  physicists  arises  from  the  fact  they  dare  not 
generally  admit  to  themselves,  very  explicitly,  that  science  and  nature 
form  two  worlds  separated  by  irreversible  phenomena,”  when  he  ap¬ 
proves  of  the  condemnation  of  Socrates,  when  he  undertakes  to  popu¬ 
larize  the  Bible — “the  one  book  which  can  serve  to  instruct  the  people 
and  initiate  it  to  the  heroic  life” — when  he  writes  his  passionate  Plai- 
doyer  pour  Lenine.  Sorel  is  haunted  by  hero-worship.  His  pessimism 
and  his  optimism  become  reconciled  in  the  vision  of  a  tragic  catas¬ 
trophe  whence  shall  spring  a  new  heroism:  “Let  us  hail  the  revolu¬ 
tionaries  as  the  Greeks  hailed  the  Spartan  heroes  who  defended  Ther¬ 
mopylae.”  Sorel  discovered  an  obstacle  to  the  realization  of  his  dream. 
The  chiefs  of  the  proletariat  obey  an  “intellectualistic  philosophy.” 
Now  reason  is  the  negation  of  enthusiasm.  He  was  then  led  to  cele¬ 
brate  the  sole  creation  of  the  spirit  which  escapes  the  control  of  the 
intelligence — the  myth.  The  myth  of  the  struggle  with  Saban  made 
the  Christian  martyrs  and  ascetics.  The  myth  of  the  class  struggle 
will  make  the  proletarian  martyrs  and  ascetics.  The  latter  will 
triumph  like  the  former  because  “the  idea  of  the  general  strike  pro¬ 
duces  an  absolutely  epic  state  of  mind.”  Thus  is  accomplished  the 
union  of  metaphysics  and  of  action  which  gives  Sorel’s  books,  and 
particularly  the  introduction  to  Reflexions  sur  la  violence  where  it  is 
completely  stated,  the  honour  of  really  representing  “what  is  best  in 
modern  consciousness — the  torment  of  the  infinite.” 

“Democracy  has  turned  to  account  all  the  illusions  which  have  mis¬ 
led  our  elders.  It  works  incessantly  to  spread  errors  which  insure 
its  domination.”  The  democracy  here  attacked  by  Sorel  in  the  name 
of  Syndicalism  is  equally  combated  by  the  Royalists  who  have  under¬ 
gone  the  Sorelian  influence.  Georges  Valois’  D’un  Siecle  a  V autre 
shows  this  evolution  from  anarchy  to  order ;  but  the  return  to  a  Catho¬ 
lic  and  classic  conservatism  by  no  means  excludes  in  Valois  the  lyric 
enthusiasm  which  animates  Le  Pere  or  the  deliberate  audacity  which, 
denouncing  the  sophisms  of  Liberalism  and  of  Marxism,  proposes,  in 
L’Economie  nouvelle,  the  plan  of  a  “realistic  economy”  based  upon 
this  unrecognized  truth :  “The  creations  of  the  mind  are  at  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  all  things.” 

In  1907,  Peguy’s  hospitality  caused  Les  Preoccupations  des  physi- 
ciens  modernes  to  be  preceded  by  a  foreword  in  which  Julien  Benda 
noted  how,  in  Sorel’s  explanation,  the  modern  savant,  “from  an  ob¬ 
server  becomes  an  experimenter,  a  workman.” 

In  1912,  in  Le  Bergsonisme  ou  une  Philosophic  de  la  mobilite,  Benda 


SOME  TENDENCIES  343 

combated  Sorel  and  Bergson  as  a  pamphleteer.  Fighting  foot  by 
foot  the  gratuitous  assertions  of  the  “new  dogma,”  he  stressed  the 
confusion  of  the  Bergsonians  as  to  the  sense  of  the  word  “intuition” 
and  triumphantly  demonstrated  that  “what  Bergson  calls  Intuition  is 
simply  intelligence,  in  opposition  to  a  kind  of  bureaucratic  functioning 
of  the  mind”  for  which  he  arbitrarily  reserves  this  name.  Author  of 
the  Dialogue  d’ Eleuthere  and  of  that  eloquent  novel  U Ordination  in 
which  the  “erethism  of  the  mind”  is  opposed  to  the  emotion  of  the 
heart,  Benda  proved  that  for  him  intelligence  was  not  the  faculty  of 
dead  matter  but  rather  “thought  in  action,  lively  cerebration,  pas¬ 
sional  intelligence.”  This  creative  flame  burns  less  intensely  in  Les 
Amorandes .  It  is  scarcely  to  be  found  in  the  three  tales  composing 
La  Croix  de  Roses,  simple  illustrations  of  the  amusing  dialogue  which 
precedes  them.  Benda  has  settled  down  in  the  controversy.  Les 
Sentiments  de  Critias  develops  his  attacks  against  the  “pathetic  phi¬ 
losophy”  and  makes  a  piquant  inventory  of  the  ideas  of  Germanic  origin 
recently  imported  into  France.  ,He  also  returns  to  the  criticism 
of  contemporary  aesthetics  which  he  had  already  begun  in  Le  Berg - 
sonisme  (“from  this  point  of  view  Bergson’s  fame  is  the  same  phe¬ 
nomenon  as  Bataille’s”)  and  which  he  has  completed  in  Belphegor. 
There  he  denounces  the  taste  of  present  French  society  for  “mystic 
emotion  ...  its  horror  of  the  rational  ...  its  frenzy  for  making 
intelligent  works  a  pretext  for  emotion.”  He  implacably  pursues, 
even  in  France  and  in  Gide,  the  libido  sentiendi,  unmasks  “the  roman¬ 
ticism  of  the  reason,”  finally  condemning  himself  to  silence  for  fear 
of  ending  on  “a  romantic  antithesis.” 

“Intuition  is  the  seat  of  all  the  intelligences.”  Thus  pronounces 
Andre  Suares  without  this  approbation  bringing  much  support  to  the 
Bergsonian  thesis.  For  Suares  has  rarely  resisted  the  vast  sonorous 
formulas  which  must  always  be  verified  before  being  quoted,  so  easy 
are  they  to  turn  when  the  inversion  does  not  involve  a  hiatus.  The 
temptation  is  great  to  imitate  so  artificial  a  prose  which  is  better  for 
the  ear  than  for  the  brain  in  certain  adventurous  comparisons : 
“Science  is  great  only  for  rendering  service.  It  is  to  art  and  to 
poetry,  which  express  the  sole  creative  activity,  what  woman  is  to 
man  .  .  .  innocence  and  first  youth  are  flower  in  the  flower,  the  man¬ 
darine  in  the  orange  .  .  .”  Certain  models  haunt  Suares:  Richard 
Wagner  with  whom  his  whole  work  echoes;  Shakespeare-Prospero 
whose  eulogy  fills  his  BoHe  tragique;  the  Dostoievsky  of  the  Trois 
Hommes;  Pascal,  “the  great  Nihilist,”  of  whom  he  has  drawn  an  ad¬ 
mirable  portrait,  lending  him  his  own  belief  that  heart  and  life  alone 


344  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

count,  finding  in  him  that  “asceticism  of  the  heart”  which  he  calls  a 
discipline,  leading  his  friend,  M.  de  Seipse,  to  make  the  pilgrimage  to 
Port-Royal.  Shakespeare,  Dostoievsky,  Pascal — what  masters  for  de¬ 
tecting  false  eloquence !  “They  make  me  laugh  with  their  accusation 
of  rhetoric.  Not  one  of  them  hates  it  half  as  much  as  I  do.”  Cer¬ 
tainly  he  is  sincere  in  forgetting  there  exists  a  Wagnerian  rhetoric 
which  can  slip  even  into  the  moving  Sur  le  mort  de  mon  frdre,  “a  tender 
mass,  on  the  altar  of  death” ;  but  it  must  certainly  be  admitted  that  no 
one  has  shown  himself  more  terribly  dogmatic,  more  ponderously  ob¬ 
stinate  in  barren  polemics,  more  “school-masterish”  through  the  reit¬ 
eration  of  his  arrogant  affirmations.  “Thus,”  he  writes,  “I  ennoble 
the  game,  before  I  enter  it.”  Why  does  his  intemperate  romanticism 
always  succumb  to  the  desire  of  entering  it? 

Nevertheless,  in  his  numerous  essays  Sur  la  Vie,  what  critical  acute¬ 
ness  when  nothing  blurs  his  artist  vision  !  Look  at  his  commentaries  on 
Baudelaire  and  Stendhal,  his  description  of  Ingres’  sketch  for  the  por¬ 
trait  of  Mme.  d’Haussonville,  his  parallel  between  Culture  and  Civili¬ 
zation,  Sultan  Desir’s  visit  to  the  Russian  Ballet,  his  analysis  of  the 
Debussy  recitative — “astonishing  music  which  seems  the  emotion  of  the 
idea  in  the  transparent  sheath  of  the  word.”  Already,  we  who  have  ac¬ 
cepted  with  sympathy  all  his  work — Le  Livre  de  V  Emeraude ,  Le  Bou- 
clier  du  Zodiaque  and  Tolstoi  vivant — know  that  this  voluntary 
monument  will  crack;  but  we  are  sure  the  future  will  keep  certain  fren¬ 
zied  cries  from  La  Tragedie  d’Elektre  et  d’Oreste,  many  an  impassioned 
meditation  from  the  chronicle  of  Caerdal  (in  Essais  et  Portraits),  the 
page  from  the  Voyage  du  condottietre  on  Cremona  and'  Monteverde,  the 
unique  Cressida  finally  in  which  love  assumes  all  its  masks — voluptuous 
desire,  buffoonery,  murderous  folly,  inaccessible  smile — for  the  glory 
of  the  heroine  who  walks  towards  him  “with  an  unsteady  step,  like  a 
hesitant  Victory,  head  high,”  while  Suares  chants  the  hymn  of  his  whole 
life :  “It  is  in  desire  must  be  sought  the  secret  of  the  flesh,  obscure  to 
itself ;  but  the  soul  too  is  a  rose-garden  for  desire.  Where  the  magic 
of  voluptousness  has  more  than  once  failed,  the  grace  of  the  heart 
makes  it  blossom. 


3.  ART  AND  THE  PEOPLE 

To  invent  a  school  of  “social  art”  would,  like  every  false  classifica¬ 
tion,  be  an  easy  thing.  More  faithful  to  reality,  more  useful  for 
knowledge  of  contemporary  thought  will  be  the  successive  study  of 
five  prose  writers  for  whom  the  spectacle  of  the  people  has  presented, 
at  the  same  time  as  the  social  problem,  an  artistic  problem. 


•s 


Some  tendencies  bu 

At  the  outset  a  book  deserves  to  hold  the  attention  through  its  evi¬ 
dential  value.  Lucien  Jean  was  the  very  fraternal  master  of  Charles- 
Louis  Philippe.  Valois  has  signalized  his  role  as  a  “precursor”  and 
the  fact  that,  uniting  the  nouvelles  and  critical  notes  which  compose 
the  volume  Parmi  les  Hommes,  his  friends  in  1910  believed  they  “were 
assembling  precious  materials.”  They  were  not  wrong.  For  if  the 
tales  Dans  le  Jardin  spring  from  that  “music”  style  which  Verlaine 
called  “literature,”  many  Notes  on  the  political  and  literary  events  of 
the  first  years  of  the  century  lay  bare  the  ill  from  which  that  genera¬ 
tion  suffered  (“we  say  nothing  because  we  dare  say  nothing,  because 
we  dare  judge  nothing;  we  know  too  many  things”)  and  indicate  the 
remedy:  “it  is  essential  for  us  to  say  yes  and  no  to  each  thing  if  we  do 
not  want  to  perish.”  An  acute  critic,  Jean  signalized  the  duet  be¬ 
tween  the  Neitzschean  influence  and  that  of  Dostoievsky.  “Poor  city- 
dweller,”  his  Souvenirs  de  VHopital  and  his  nouvelles  are  like  sonatas 
on  Philippe’s  themes  with  a  more  resigned  sensuality,  a  more  meditative 
anarchy,  with  the  same  affectations  in  L’Enfant  prodigue  and  a  simi¬ 
lar  skill  in  stirring  the  dolorous  mystery  of  humble  lives  in  TJn  Vieil 
Homme. 

Charles-Louis  Philippe’s  work  is  often  the  story  of  his  life,  always 
the  story  of  his  thought.  Born  poor,  he  wished  to  present  literature 
with  the  portrait  of  the  Poor  Man,  whether  a  peasant  of  his  native 
Bourbonnais  in  Charles  Blanchard  and  Le  Pere  Perdrix,  or,  in  Buhu 
de  Montparnasse,  Marie  Donadieu  and  Croquignole,  one  of  the  dubious 
waifs  of  that  Paris  of  which  he  has  engraved  precious  wood-blocks. 
His  most  finished  pages  are  to  be  found  in  those  of  his  books  which,  not 
being  novels,  needed  no  arrangement :  La  Mere  et  V Enfant  where 
his  recollections  are  shrouded  with  deep  feeling,  where  the  real  and 
the  imaginary  mingle  tenderly ;  Charles  Blanchard  which  describes  the 
childhood  of  his  father— to  whom  he  owes  the  best  Contes  du  Matin 
— and  also  the  childhood  of  the  Poor  Man,  the  struggle  of  human 
life  against  cold,  darkness,  the  expenses  which  menace  Bread,  the 
revelation  of  poverty  before  a  merry-go-round,  escape  through  work. 
Now  is  it  not  significant  that,  caught  between  the  desire  to  paint  a 
man  and  the  desire  to  paint  a  type,  Philippe  never  finished  Charles 
Blanchard,  that  he  even  wrote  some  chapters  of  a  “happy”  Charles 
Blanchard? 

He  was  not  unaware  of  the  complexity  which  permitted  very  con¬ 
tradictory  quotations  to  be  extracted  from  his  Lettres  de  jemiesse: 
“The  day  of  gentleness  and  of  dilettantism  is  past,”  he  announced. 
“Now  barbarians  are  needed.”  He  was  not  a  barbarian  however: 
“There  is  a  terrible  thing  for  me  to  know:  whether  this  story  will  end 


346  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

with  life  and  I  shall  at  length  become  the  man  I  should  like  to  be — 
or  whether,  as  usual,  I  shall  compromise  with  a  book!  To  be  merely 
a  man  of  letters — I  am  fed  up  on  it  1”  He  remained  one  nevertheless 
and  the  three  decisive  events  of  his  evolution  were  his  meeting  with 
three  writers,  Dostoievsky,  Nietzsche,  Claudel.  For  if  he  evoked  pov¬ 
erty  and  suffering,  he  never  ceased  to  find  the  certainty  and  the  joy 
they  bring. 

The  commonest  misinterpretation  is  to  represent  him  as  a  tender¬ 
hearted  panegyrist  of  all  the  slums.  He  himself  encouraged  this  error 
in  the  passages  of  Bubu  where  his  evangelical  mysticism  casts  memo¬ 
ries  of  Jesus  upon  the  prostitute  Berthe,  when  he  denounces  a  world  “in 
which  individual  charity  is  powerless  because  love  and  money  exist.” 
He  has  spread  over  his  early  works  too  much  of  “that  tearful,  melan¬ 
choly  pleasure  which  is  for  me  the  greatest  of  pleasures.”  Of  this 
commiseration  which,  in  Quatre  Histoires  de  pauvre  amour,  in  La 
Bonne  Madeleine  et  la  Pauvre  Marie,  seemed  deplorably  affected,  his 
style  has  kept  traces.  The  garret  in  Croquignole  is  bounded  by  the 
prettinesses  of  a  sentimental  Jules  Renard,  “to  such  an  extent  that 
it  is  thus  we  should  express  ourselves :  the  window  of  the  room  opened  on 
a  sewing-machine.”  Even  the  firm  prose  of  Charles  Blanchard  accepts 
some  affectations :  “The  bread  he  had  eaten  had  made  him  grow. 
The  bread  itself  warred  with  the  bread !”  His  heroines,  Berthe,  Marie, 
Angele,  bow  passively  to  destiny.  Each  novel  repeats  “the  sad  fall 
of  a  virginity — the  death  of  an  idea  confronted  by  life”  of  which  he 
spoke  in  the  Journal  de  la  vingtieme  annee.  There  is  nothing,  not 
even  his  habitual  process  of  composition  by  wavering  juxtaposition, 
which  does  not  seem  to  justify  this  legend  of  sentimentality — against 
which  he  protested.  “I  am  perhaps  nearer  Nietzsche  than  Dostoiev¬ 
sky,”  he  replies  to  Henri  Vandeputte  after  an  article  on  Bubu ;  and, 
in  a  letter  to  Andre  Ruyters,  he  denies  being  a  “crippled  socialist” 
who  blasts  all  his  characters  with  apathy. 

On  this  point  he  saw  clearly.  Philippe  is  not  a  barbarian,  even  tak¬ 
ing  this  word  in  the  sense  in  which  he  applied  it  to  the  author  of 
The  Possessed;  but  he  was  not  without  egotism — the  egotism  of  the 
creators.  His  short  life  was  haunted  with  a  dream  of  sensual¬ 
ity.  As  early  as  the  Quatre  Histoires  he  showed  “the  thick  cells 
of  touch  in  excitation”  and  in  his  three  Parisian  novels,  the  imagination 
satisfies  the  desires  of  his  flesh.  More  precisely,  he  portrays  his  other 
self.  Bubu,  Raphael  and  Croquignole — three  images  of  the  barbarian 
Philippe  could  not  be — brutally  ravish  the  women  whom  Pierre,  Jean 
and  Claude — all  three  much  nearer  the  real  Philippe — do  not  succeed 
in  keeping:  “A  woman  is  always  what  we  need  .  .  .  Jean  sought 


SOME  TENDENCIES  347 

about  petticoats  a  vague  tenderness  or  stimulant.”  This  preoccupa¬ 
tion  explains  why  the  artistic  balance,  so  dramatically  maintained  in 
the  atrocious  ending  of  Bubu,  is  destroyed  in  Marie  Donadieu  where 
Philippe  intends  to  give  the  best  role  to  Jean  Bousset,  more  exactly  to 
formulate  through  his  mouth  his  will  to  break  the  carnal  jail:  “I  re¬ 
member  Dostoievsky  speaks  of  the  living  life  and  says  it  ought  to 
be  quite  simple,  that  the  day  someone  has  discovered  it  we  shall  be 
astonished  at  it.”  And  undoubtedly  there  remains  an  abyss  between 
this  aspiration  and  the  sovereign  amplitude  of  The  Brothers  Karama¬ 
zov;  but  Dostoievsky  lived  long  enough  to  become  the  reassembler  of 
the  Russian  soul,  while  Philippe  died  at  thirty-four. 

Not  without  having  stated  the  conflict  of  his  instincts  and  his 
mind  in  a  more  subtle  form.  In  Croquignole — an  enormous  farce 
which  ended  logically  in  two  suicides — Philippe  paints  three  pictures 
of  the  Poor  Man :  Croquignole,  suddenly  enriched,  gives  free  rein  to 
his  joy  of  living,  and  tramples  indifferently  the  meagre  happiness  of 
Claude  Buy  who  dared  hope  for  love.  Felicien,  at  their  side,  takes  ref¬ 
uge  in  a  prolix  morality:  “We,  who  are  poor,  need  to  be  right.” 
One  would  say  that  here  Philippe,  liberated,  no  longer  has  any  kinship 
with  his  heroes  save  through  the  ambiguity  which  made  him  call  poor 
“the  man  who  is  incapable  of  utilizing  happiness” — the  ambiguity  which 
permitted  him  to  reconcile  Nietzsche  and  Dostoievsky — the  ambiguity 
- — or  rather  a  new  sense  of  the  contradictions  in  life — which  dictated 
the  two  versions  of  Charles  Blanchard:  “Perhaps  he  was  tired  of 
having  borne  so  many  days.”  .  .  .  “He  was  happy  to  be  a  part  of  a : 
world  which  possessed  such  marvels.”  Gride  rendered  full  homage  to 
this  mystery  when  he  wrote,  the  day  after  Philippe’s  death:  “He 
bears  in  him  the  wherewithal  to  bewilder  and  surprise,  that  is  to  say 
to  endure.” 

In  a  pamphlet  dated  1920,  L’Art  et  le  Peuple,  Elie  Faure  thus  de¬ 
fines  his  thought :  “The  people  is  a  beginning.  Art  is  a  conclusion. 
The  pearl  does  not  make  the  sea.  It  is  the  sea  that  makes  the  pearl.” 
Thanks  to  this  antithesis,  Faure  is  able  to  believe  simultaneously  in 
art  and  in  the  people,  “a  reserve  of  innocence  for  the  species.”  As 
early  as  1914,  he  celebrated  in  Les  Constructeurs  Lamarck,  Michelet, 
Dostoievsky,  Nietzsche  and  Cezanne  who  incarnated  the  “sense  of  life.” 
i  La  Conquete,  a  miscellany  of  didactic  and  poetic  essays,  proclaimed 
;  that  “civilization  is  a  lyric  phenomenon,”  extolled  Don  Quichotte, 
j  ‘‘free  man,”  taught  living  as  an  artist  and  acting  as  a  “conqueror.” 
iHis  war  books,  La  Sainte  Face  and  La  Roue,  demonstrate  that  war, 
l  “sinister  caricature  of  love  ...  is  the  terrible  means  whereby  collec- 


348  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

tivities  have  at  their  disposal,  for  self-conquest,  what  dramas  of  love, 
lyricism  and  intelligence  conquer  from  the  individual.”  We  feel  the 
vicinity  of  Nietzsche  and  Sorel,  the  one  inspiring  his  Napoleon,  painted 
“in  a  state  of  lyrical  intoxication,”  the  other  his  conviction  “that 
a  popular  mysticism  aspires  towards  something  other  than  an  appeal 
to  peace  and  gentleness.”  Added  to  this  is  the  influence  of  Emerson 
and  of  Whitman  in  the  book  where  Faure  best  expresses  his  doctrine, 
La  Danse  sur  le  feu  et  Veau,  dedicated  to  Michel  de  Montaigne 
with  this  motto :  “Everything  should  be  taken  tragically,  nothing 
seriously.”  Apprized  of  the  personal  reasons  which  incline  Elie 
Faure  to  “the  admirable  gossip,”  one  will  enjoy  the  passionate  elo¬ 
quence  of  his  Histoire  de  Vart  “conceived  as  the  lyric  narrative  of  the 
spiritual  adventure  of  men  determined  to  conquer  the  mystery  which 
inhabits  them”;  and  in  the  fundamental  ideas  of  La  Danse — an  apol¬ 
ogy  for  style,  a  eulogy  of  the  Just  Man,  “most  immoral  of  men,”  a 
grandiose  “ascent  of  the  crowds  in  history” — there  will  be  recognised 
the  Nietzschean  individualism  and  Dostoievsky’s  patriotism  placed  at 
the  service  of  a  socialism  whence  shall  spring  “the  second  of  harmony 
.  .  .  the  superior  equilibrium”  of  the  heroes. 

Let  us  open  Dostoievsky  once  more,  in  the  Journal  d'un  ecrivain 
this  time:  “All  your  attempts  to  transform  yourselves  into  simple 
workmen  will  be  but  a  masquerade.  You  are  too  complex  to  become 
moujiks.  Try  rather  to  raise  the  moujiks  to  your  complexity.  It 
will  be  better  than  all  the  comedies  of  simplification .”  Like  Elie  Faure, 
Jean  Richard  Bloch  has  heard  the  master’s  lesson.  Founding,  in 
1910,  VEffort,  a  “technical  review  of  art  and  humanity,”  he  wished  it 
to  be  less  sympathetic  than  combative,”  and  in  it  the  influence  of 
Sorel  corrected  that  of  Rolland  even  before  its  expansion  into  L’Effort 
libre,  a  “review  of  revolutionary  civilization.”  Bloch  has  since 
collected  his  articles,  “first  essays  for  a  better  understanding  of  my 
time,”  under  the  title  of  his  manifesto,  Carnaval  est  mort.  Carnival 
is  dead  because  Lent  is  dead.  There  is  no  longer  any  art  because 
there  is  no  longer  any  faith.  It  is  urgent  to  create  a  new  faith  from 
which  shall  flow  a  new  art.  Thus  Bloch  reacted  against  the  dis¬ 
couragement  of  his  elders.  His  prop,  mystic  and  steadfast,  he  saw, 
not  in  the  struggle  of  classes,  but  in  the  union  of  the  democratic 
tradition  and  the  proletariat  for  “a  new  civilization”  where  “the 
happy  life  and  modern  man”  sung  by  Whitman  should  blossom. 
Bloch  sought  these  realities,  in  the  Premier  Livre  de  contes,  through 
applied  Unanimism,  schematic  Symbolism,  the  scherzo  a  la  Kipling, 
humour  and  pathology.  Though  not  equally  successful,  all  his  stories 
have  the  same  probity.  Above  all  he  has  bent  towards  his  race, 


SOME  TENDENCIES  349 

sounding  its  fitness  to  guide  this  progress  still  further.  In  Levy  he 
had  evoked  with  striking  relief  the  supple  patience  of  the  Jew  who, 
from  the  profoundest  humiliation,  raises  himself  triumphantly  .  .  . 
Et  Cie,  a  Balzacian  novel  the  plot  of  which  is  not  its  essential  feature, 
repeats  on  a  vaster  scale  the  analysis  of  this  Jewish  strength  in  the 
story  of  a  family  which  is  at  the  same  time  a  business  house.  The 
true  drama  consists  in  instilling  into  all  the  sound  members  of  this 
group  the  sense  of  collective  unity,  the  need  for  rejecting  the  seductive 
imaginings  (which  are  perhaps  in  their  way  truths)  in  order  to 
recruit  themselves  in  a  double  tradition:  fidelity  to  a  race  which  will 
prolong  its  lasting  virtues,  fidelity  to  the  work  well  done  which  assures 
man’s  dignity. 

“The  workman  no  longer  loves  his  craft,  and  this  fact  shakes  the 
world.”  Starting  from  that  statement,  Pierre  Hamp  has  undertaken 
the  story  of  La  Peine  des  hommes,  an  epic  of  work  at  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  the  twentieth  century.  Maree  fraiche  follows  the  fish  from  the 
trawl-net  of  Boulogne  to  the  great  Parisian  restaurant.  Vin  de 
Champagne  begins  among  the  glass-blowers  and  vine-dressers  to  end 
in  the  phlegmatic  drunkenness  of  the  London  Club.  These  vigorous 
frescoes  with  their  symbolical  characters  justify  the  rude  reminder: 
“We  live  by  the  sufferings  of  others.”  Here  is  already  seen  the  whole 
of  Hamp’s  art,  highly  concerted,  rectifying  Naturalism  with  Impres¬ 
sionism,  very  slightly  objective  notwithstanding  the  dryness  of  his 
statistics,  dominated  by  the  declaration  in  Gens:  “You  must  love 
two  things:  justice  and  your  craft.” 

The  north  of  France  is  inseparable  from  this  work.  Hamp  owes 
it  the  inspiration  of  the  Contes.  He  has  there  situated  Le  Rail  which 
envelops  the  technical  description  of  a  railway  accident  and  the  de¬ 
tailed  account  of  a  strike  of  railway-men  in  the  vast  poem  of  daily  work 
at  the  station.  Lille  is  the  setting  of  the  most  original  of  his  books, 
L’Enquete,  where  his  pitiless  precision  draws  from  the  very  ugli¬ 
ness  an  atmosphere  of  beauty,  where  his  veracity — that  enjoined  by 
the  criminal  code — draws  .up  the  most  terrible  indictment  against 
poverty  and  ignorance,  against  charitable  injustice  and  against  the 
“there  is  no  advance”  of  despair.  His  conviction  that  socialism  con¬ 
tains  “the  highest  form  of  mysticism — the  mysticism  of  the  idea  of 
justice” — has  here  created  a  new  form  of  social  novel. 

“War  is  fleeting,  Work  is  eternal.”  This  might  be  the  motto  of 
his  war-trilogy:  Le  Travail  invincible,  Les  Metiers  blesses,  La 
Victoire  mecanicienne.  Here  he  names  in  labour’s  roll  of  honour  the 
workers  who  are  not  interrupted  in  their  task  by  the  sound  of  the 


350  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

cannon.  Here  he  struggles  against  the  prejudices,  bourgeois  or 
socialist,  which  threaten  the  health  of  the  race,  which  hinder  the 
return  to  work,  “the  victory  of  France  over  the  French.”  Here  he 
keeps  his  word  “to  place  exactness  before  love.”  Les  Metiers  blesses 
shows  that  “the  ruin  of  the  French  factories  is  an  example  of  Ger¬ 
many’s  crime  against  human  work.”  In  Les  Chercheurs  d’or  he  has 
chosen  Austria’s  misery  as  an  “example  of  the  incomprehension  or 
scorn  of  the  forces  of  toil  by  the  men  who  made  the  Peace.”  Amusing 
through  its  international  medley,  this  book,  the  documentation  of 
which  appears  rather  improvised,  constitutes  a  less  energetic  plea  than 
a  certain  sober  article  on  La  Contaigieuse  Misere  in  which  Hamp 
courageously  demands  the  “Franco-German  alliance,  first  condition  of 
the  United  States  of  Europe  and  of  world  peace.”  Le  Cantique  des 
C antiques  manifests  a  return  to  his  former  method.  Its  hero  is 
Perfume,  followed  from  the  gardens  of  Grasse  to  the  drawing-rooms 
furnished  by  the  Rue  de  la  Paix;  but  the  divorce  is  too  striking 
between  the  newspaper  lyricism  which  renders  the  romantic  part  of 
these  two  volumes  unbearable  and  the  powerful  description,  alone 
worthy  of  Hamp,  of  a  trade  in  which  “we  invented  the  lie  before 
knowing  the  truth.” 

We  must  borrow  his  brutal  frankness  to  speak  of  his  style,  excellent 
when  turned  towards  action,  detestable  when  aiming  at  literary  effect. 
Influenced  by  the  Goncourts  and  by  Paul  Adam,  Hamp’s  prose  seems 
less  written  to  be  read  or  heard  than  to  be  experienced  materially. 
He  wishes  less  to  describe  his  object  than  to  reconstruct  it  before  our 
eyes,  and  sometimes  he  succeeds  in  so  doing;  but  this  method  is  ac¬ 
companied  by  immutable  mannerisms  which  he  lends  to  his  Viennese  no 
less  than  to  his  fellow-citizens  of  Lille,  by  useless  and  ridiculous  con¬ 
tortions  :  “An  error  armed  the  laughing  demon  in  the  Champenoises 
of  Horuis,  and  he  made  short  work  of  smashing  the  glassware  so 
arduously  blown.”  .  .  .  “The  first-class  railroad  passes  and  the 
advertising  rates  offered  repose  to  his  liberty  of  thinking,  still  useless 
because  of  M.  Ipp’s  difficulty  in  recalling  what  was  orthodox.”  These 
sentences  from  Vin  de  Champagne  and  from  Le  Rail  were  merely 
clumsy.  Le  Cantiques  multiplies  examples  of  this  monotonous  per¬ 
versity:  “Energetic  breaths  hurled  balms  .  .  .  the  wild  bouquets 
hurled  bittersweet  perfume  .  .  .  shaking  the  branches  by  hand  only, 
to  destroy  them  less  than  by  so  much  hitting  with  a  stick  ...”  etc. 
Pierre  Hamp  is  too  forward-looking  to  lose  himself  in  this  false  depth 
of  decadence.  He  well  knows  that  the  writer  in  his  work  is  he  who 
engraved  these  -distinct  formulas :  “The  probity  of  affirmation  with¬ 
out  regard  to  persons  is  a  great  revolutionary  force.  .  .  .”  “France 


SOME  TENDENCIES  351 

is  not  a  landscape,  a  geographic  being.  It  is  the  site  of  a  human 
quality  .  .  .”  “There  was  nothing  at  Thermopylae  but  professional 
conscience.” 


4.  THE  EGO  AND  THE  UNIVERSE 

In  his  preface  to  Marcel  Proust’s  Les  Plaisirs  et  les  Jours,  Anatole 
France  noted,  as  early  as  1896,  that  this  writer  “enjoyed  equally  de¬ 
scribing  the  splendid  desolation  of  the  setting  sun  and  the  uneasy  vani¬ 
ties  of  a  snobbish  soul.”  There  is  much  worldliness  in  these  attempts 
of  a  beginner  whose  portrait  of  Violante  takes  its  place  marvellously 
between  an  illustration  by  Madeleine  Lemaire  and  a  composition  by 
Raynaldo  Hahn.  Still,  who  to-day  would  hesitate  to  recognize  the 
accent  of  Marcel  Proust  in  the  ingenious  eulogy  of  bad  music,  in  cer¬ 
tain  analyses  in  La  Fin  de  la  jalousie  or  in  this  Fragment  de  comedie 
italienne? — “Life  is  strangely  easy  and  smooth  for  certain  persons  of 
great  natural  distinction,  witty  and  affectionate,  but  capable  of  all 
the  vices,  even  when  they  practise  none  of  them  publicly  and  can¬ 
not  be  charged  with  a  single  one.  There  is  something  supple  and 
secret  about  them.  Thus,  their  perversity  gives  piquancy  to  the  most 
innocent  occupations,  such  as  walking  at  night  in  the  gardens.” 

Since  the  Jean-Christophe  series,  no  one  had  undertaken  to  con¬ 
struct  a  monument  comparable  in  its  proportions  to  A  la  Recherche 
du  temps  perdu;  but,  while  Jean-C'hristophe’s  life  was  told  in  the  third 
person,  the  narrative  here  is  entirely  subjective,  mingling  autobiog¬ 
raphy  and  the  memories  of  an  observer  without  however  there  be¬ 
ing  any  question  of  an  automatic  development.  Proust,  indeed,  at¬ 
tempted  the  resurrection  of  a  life  by  means  of  memory :  “Perhaps,” 
he  writes  at  the  very  beginning  of  Du  Cote  de  chez  Swann,  “the  immo¬ 
bility  of  the  things  about  us  is  imposed  upon  them  ...  by  the  immo¬ 
bility  of  our  thought  in  their  presence.”  Placed  in  a  state  which 
breaks  this  immobility  of  thought,  the  memory  will  witness  the  renais¬ 
sance  of  a  past  at  once  living  and  constructed:  “Thus  the  spaces  of 
my  memory  became  covered  little  by  little  with  names  which,  by  ar¬ 
ranging  themselves,  by  composing  themselves  with  regard  to  each  other, 
by  forming  more  and  more  numerous  relations  among  themselves,  imi¬ 
tated  those  finished  works  of  art  in  which  there  is  not  a  single  isolated 
touch,  in  which  each  part  in  its  turn  receives  from  the  others  its 
raison  d’etre  as  it  imposes  its  own  upon  them.”  This  sentence  from 
Le  Cote  de  Guermantes  defines  his  method.  Hence  the  importance  he 
attaches  to  Names,  the  syllables  of  Balbec  or  Guermantes  absorbing  for 
him  the  place  or  the  woman  they  designate,  the  real  individuals  hav- 


354  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

acters — Gilberte,  Mme.  de  Guermantes  and  Swann,  the  precursor  of 
the  narrator — are  also  those  which  remain  in  the  last  analysis  the 
least  independent  of  their  creator.  Their  life  seems  diminished  by 
all  he  has  borrowed  from  them  to  revive  his  own  past.  This  will 
appear  more  clearly  if  we  compare  Proust’s  works  with  the  novels 
of  Henry  James.  Proust  knows  nothing  of  the  disinterestedness  which 
impels  James  to  efface  himself,  to  forget  himself  the  better  to  animate 
his  heroes,  leaving  his  dialectics  at  their  disposal.  Proust,  too, 
transposes  but  in  an  absolutely  different  manner.  At  most  he  accords 
Swann,  who  is  in  certain  respects  the  narrator  in  action,  a  gleam  of 
“that  intermittent  mufflerie  which  reappeared  in  him  as  soon  as  he 
was  no  longer  unhappy,  and  which  lowered,  at  the  same  time,  the 
level  of  his  morality”—  a  mufflerie  which  is  perhaps  but  the  healthy 
reaction  of  a  liberated  intelligence. 

On  this  immense  tapestry  certain  perfect  bits  stand  forth.  A 
volume  of  essays  will  certainly  be  extracted  from  A  la  Recherche  du 
temps  perdu:  names,  images,  sickness,  death,  sleep,  music,  and  snob¬ 
bishness,  sexual  inversion  (for  Proust  here  had  the  courage  to  face 
a  success  easy  to  foresee  and,  in  treating  his  subject,  to  disappoint 
comic  hopes).  The  fact  that  chapters  entitled  “Les  Pr ogres  ir- 
regvliers  de  Vouhli ”  or  “Les  Intermit  fences  du  cceur ”  may  be  isolated 
from  his  narrative  exactly  indicates  the  strength  and  the  weakness  of 
a  work  which  Andre  Gide  has  compared  to  Montaigne’s  Essais — 
adding  however  a  surprising  eulogy :  “What  I  most  admire  is,  I 
think,  his  gratuitousness.  I  know  no  work  more  useless  or  one  which 
seeks  to  prove  less.”  To  which  we  would  willingly  reply  that  Les 
Caves  du  Vatican  is  not  more  partial  than  this  Recherche  du  temps 
perdu,  an  apology — against  creative  imagination — of  the  passive 
memory.  It  is  true  Proust  has  mentioned  “that  detached,  smiling, 
almost  sympathetic  benevolence  by  which  we  reward  the  object  of  our 
disinterested  observation  for  the  pleasure  it  procures  us” ;  but  he  has 
warned  us  equally  that  he  “places  in  the  last  volume  his  whole  theory 
of  art  concerning  unconscious  recollections”  which  are  for  him 
realities  after  the  fashion  of  Yinteuil’s  little  saying  that  the  musician 
has  not  invented  but  simply  liberated.  Now  does  this  not  come  back 
again  to  the  dangerous  generalization  of  Les  Plaisirs  et  Jours: 
“Later  I  was  often  ill,  and  for  long  days  I  too  had  to  remain  in  the 
Ark.  I.  then  understood  that  never  had  Noah  seen  the  world  so  well 
as  from  the  Ark,  in  spite  of  its  being  closed  and  of  its  being  dark  on 
earth”? — a  sentence  which  explains  that  curious  comment  on  the 
sonata  in  the'Jeunes  Fille§f  where  Proust  denies  intelligence,  individual 
or  collective,  the  pp^ey  tp  grasp  immediately  a  new  beauty.  So  that, 


SOME  TENDENCIES  355 

of  this  art  entirely  based  upon  the  slow  absorption  by  the  ego  of  the 
elements  time  has  deposed  in  it — of  this  art  which  leaves  the  various 
parts  of  La  Recherche  du  temps  perdu  the  aspect  of  vast  mines  un¬ 
equally  developed — the  last  word  is  perhaps  less  the  love  of  analysis 
than  the  hatred  of  synthesis. 

Jacques  Chardonne’s  L'Epithalame  marks  an  effort  to  escape  from 
this  stifling  atmosphere  of  the  ego  which  questions  itself.  The  centre 
of  the  interest  in  that  long  novel  is  no  longer  a  man  or  a  woman  but  the 
couple.  Berthe  and  Albert  are  shown  us  from  their  earliest  acquaint¬ 
ance,  each  following  his  life  in  the  midst  of  which  the  other  appears 
intermittently.  Little  by  little  the  meetings  multiply  to  the  point  of 
intimacy,  of  marriage.  Then  begins  the  double  discovery — surprises, 
clashes,  incomplete  awakenings,  disunion.  About  this  central  couple 
other  households  evolve,  solving  the  enigma  of  love  in  their  manner. 
It  is  true  all  the  pictures  in  this  series,  impartial  by  dint  of  detail, 
are  not  equally  perfect;  but  the  ensemble,  through  its  quiet  breadth, 
through  the  sober  return  to  “the  bed  of  the  river”  which  forms  its 
denouement,  is  not  unworthy  of  comparison  with  the  equitable  Middle- 
march  which  Chardonne  seems  to  have  remembered  at  least  as  much 
as  Anna  Karenina. 

Valery  Larbaud’s  books  keep  the  clinging  fascination  of  a  perfume. 
To  analyse  him  would  be  useless  had  all  rendered  justice  to  the  writer 
who  has  so  subtly  resolved  the  conflict  of  the  ego  and  the  universe  as  it 
presents  itself  to  the  novelist.  Larbaud’s  work  is  situated  at  what 
Proust  would  call  “a  seam.”  He  is  capable  of  being  at  once  in  the 
ark  and  out  of  the  ark.  The  author  of  Enfantines  has  really  tasted 
the  joys  of  “the  great  epoch,”  he  has  poetized  even  its  vacation  tasks. 
In  Elaine  and  Milou  he  has  indicated  its  perverse  imaginings  like 
a  delicate  painter  whose  hand  trembles  neither  with  admiration  nor 
with  indignation.  The  author  of  Fermina  Marquez  has  really  lived 
school  life  with  its  troubles,  its  immediate  ambitions,  its  immense 
dreams.  He  has  carried  coquetry  to  the  extent  of  showing  that  a 
good  student’s  imagination  is  as  rich  as  a  dunce’s ;  but  his  education 
was  double,  for  he  had  the  luck  to  receive  it  “in  an  old  college  more 
cosmopolitan  than  an  exposition  universelle ”  where  “the  Castilian 
world  was  our  second  fatherland.”  This  lesson  of  exoticism  was  not 
in  vain.  The  translator  of  Butler,  the  poet-story-teller  of  A.  0. 
Barnabooth,  became  like  his  hero,  “from  the  standpoint  of  culture,  a 
great  European.” 

He  has  scoured  Europe  and  each  picture  of  the  kaleidoscope  has 
stamped  itself  upon  his  retina,  from  the  Chelsea  section  where  “heavily, 


352  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

ing  but  a  secondary  importance  for  him  who  pursues  “an  aesthetic 
pleasure,”  not  “an  historical  curiosity,”  in  a  quest  where  every¬ 
thing  relates  “to  the  narrator  who  says  I  and  who  is  not  always  I,” 
if  the  author  is  to  be  believed.  Hence  furthermore  the  interest  he 
shows  in  the  language  of  the  characters  which  is  at  the  same  time  an 
indication  and  an  obstacle  to  discovering  the  truth.  A  change  of 
vocabulary  will  show  the  awakening  of  sensuality  in  Albertine  and  will 
not  suffice  to  dissimulate  in  Saint-Loup,  “that  aristocrat  whom  Rob¬ 
ert  aspired  precisely  not  to  be.”  Hence  finally  his  tolerance  for 
worldly  gossip,  afternoons  at  Mme.  de  Yilleparisis’  or  a  “social  Last 
Supper”  at  the  Guermantes’.  There  he  hunts  down  the  truth  under 
the  lying  words,  analyses  the  preconcerted  and  the  mannered  into  their 
elements,  rejecting  nothing,  avoiding  nothing  but  the  arbitrariness  of 
the  choice.  The  Past,  that  is  his  domain,  the  present  in  his  narra¬ 
tive  being  merely  an  instant  of  the  past  upon  which  he  focuses  the  light 
of  other  moments  of  a  past  more  or  less  distant.  To  appreciate  his 
extraordinary  skill,  one  must  read  the  comparison  between  the  two  per¬ 
formances  of  La  Berma,  or  this  passage:  “Before  going  to  sleep,  I 
thought  so  long  I  could  not  that,  even  when  asleep,  I  had  a  little 
thought  left.  It  was  a  mere  gleam  in  the  almost  obscurity,  but  it 
sufficed  to  reflect  in  my  sleep,  first  the  idea  that  I  could  not  sleep, 
then,  reflection  of  this  reflection,  the  idea  that  it  was  in  sleeping  I  had 
had  the  idea  I  was  not  asleep,  then,  by  a  new  refraction,  my  awaken¬ 
ing  ...  to  a  new  nap  in  which  I  wanted  to  tell  some  friends  who  had 
entered  my  room,  that  just  now,  while  sleeping,  I  had  thought  I  was 
not  sleeping.  These  shadows  were  scarcely  distinct.  It  would  have 
required  a  great  and  very  vain  delicacy  of  perception  to  seize  them. 
Thus  later,  at  Venice,  long  after  sunset,  when  it  seemed  to  be  quite 
dark,  I  saw,  thanks  to  the  echo,  invisible  however,  of  a  last  note  of 
light  indefinitely  held  on  the  canals  as  if  by  the  effect  of  some  optic 
pedal,  the  reflections  of  the  palaces  unfurled  as  if  forevermore  in 
blacker  velvet  on  the  twilight  grey  of  the  waters.” 

Such  an  example  shows  the  difficulty  of  speaking  precisely  of  this 
art  without  basing  each  observation  upon  multiple  quotations.  At 
least  it  permits  us  also  to  see  by  what  successive  gradations  Proust 
depicts  his  object,  how  he  corrects  the  harshness  of  the  words  by  mobi¬ 
lizing  about  the  affirmation  pictorial  and  melodious  combinations  which 
take  away  its  dryness.  “I  think,”  he  wrote  (apropos  of  Flaubert 
in  whom  he  admired  “the  eternal  imperfect”),  “that  the  metaphor 
alone  can  give  j^sort  of  eternity  to  style.”  He  seeks  incessantly  the 
image,  nourishing  with  it  his  most  difficult  scenes  such  as  the  meeting 
of  Charlus  and  Jupien  in  Sodome  et  Gomorrhe.  He  owes  it  his  hap- 


SOME  TENDENCIES  353 

piest  successes,  whether  he  makes  us  feel  “Rachel  balanced  by  two  in¬ 
finities”  or  “that  privilege  of  being  abruptly  present  at  our  own  ab¬ 
sence”  or  the  pianist  “who  is  only  a  window  looking  out  on  a  master¬ 
piece”  or  this  definition  in  A  V Ombre  des  jeunes  files  en  fleurs: 
“Beauty  is  a  series  of  hypotheses  narrowed  by  ugliness  which  bars 
the  road  we  saw  already  opening  on  the  unknown.” 

There  has  been  much  discussion  concerning  the  composition  of  these 
thousands  of  pages.  Proust  defined  it  as  “rigorous  though  veiled” 
and  denied  obeying  “the  fortuitous  laws  of  the  association  of  ideas.” 
Should  we  conclude  from  this  that  the  episode  of  Mile.  Yinteuil  in 
Swann  begins  Sodome  et  Gomorrhe  or  that  the  fight  with  Gilberte 
announces  Albertine’s  kiss?  His  order  is  sometimes  purely  verbal 
and  does  not  seem  to  him  so  evident  that  he  can  dispense  with 
reminders  and  warnings.  For  he  is  by  turns  verbose  in  a  parenthesis 
and  concise  in  a  long  sentence  where  several  different  ideas  rise  one 
above  the  other,  mutually  enlightened.  He  sums  up  all  Cambray  in  a 
little  morsel  of  madeleine  and  lingers  over  the  etymology  of  “smok¬ 
ing”  or  of  port  e-revolver.  His  Cote  de  Guermantes  is  sometimes  only 
the  cote  of  Franchise,  dowager  of  the  flunkeys,  who  thinks  like  Pascal, 
talks  like  Mme.  de  Sevigne  and  analyses  like  Marcel  Proust.  All  snob¬ 
bishness  moves  him,  whether  it  be  that  of  “the  little  old  green-trellised 
summer-house”  of  the  Champs  Elysees  or  that  of  the  interminable 
soiree  which  will  bring  him  “the  sparkling,  celestial  shower  of  the 
smile”  of  a  duchess.  Without  denying  the  virtuosity  which  analyses 
Albertine’s  kiss  with  a  magnifying-glass  or  leaves  us  the  agonizing  im¬ 
pression  of  having  entered  into  personal  relations  with  the  Verdurins, 
one  may  prefer  to  it  the  serried  psychological  warp  of  the  page  where 
he  describes  a  voice  heard  over  the  telephone,  the  chapter — moving, 
without  sentimentality — in  which  he  recalls  the  death  of  that  grand¬ 
mother  whose  image,  thanks  to  him,  will  live. 

— In  a  gallery  of  portraits  which  solidly  sustains  this  enormous  work. 
Like  Stendhal,  he  has  already  deserved  to  have  “his  whole  world” 
talked  of.  He  has  the  same  skill  in  describing  Saint-Loup  “not 
sufficiently  intelligent  to  understand  that  intellectual  worth  has  nothing 
to  do  with  acceptance  of  a  certain  aesthetic  formula”  as  in  evoking 
the  man-woman  with  “the  false  robe  which  hinders  his  steps.”  A 
society  lives  again  in  his  books :  the  aristocratic  Guermantes,  the 
diplomatist  Norpoix,  Cottard  the  physician,  Bergotte  the  writer, 
Elstir  the  artist,  Bloch  the  snob.  An  epoch  has  hailed  its  Saint- 
Simon  in  him  whose  best  Pastiches  so  marvellously  imitated  the 
Memoires ;  and  yet  when  after  the  first  surrender  one  stops  to 
think,  one  quickly  remarks  that  the  most  minutely  drawn  char- 


356  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

regularly  like  a  pulse-beat,  the  three  wild,  passionate  notes  of  an  in¬ 
visible  bird  fell  in  the  silence  of  darkness  and  gold,”  to  the  landscapes 
pierced  by  the  express.  In  a  spirit  of  fairness,  he  has  led  his  South 
Americans  to  Montmartre  and  diffused  over  Barnabooth’s  nervous¬ 
ness,  over  his  “shadowy  spirit,”  “the  gentle,  indulgent,  intelligent  Tus¬ 
can  light.”  His  enthusiastic,  ironical  Italy  is  more  Stendhalian  than 
Barresian  for  he  finds  his  balance  from  the  very  start.  His  epi- 
grammatical  rockets  do  not  prevent  him  from  recognizing  that  “life 
does  not  lack  a  certain  spirit,  somewhat  coarse  but  full  of  good  sense.” 
He  discerns  the  precise  moment  when  the  sea  ceases  to  declaim  his 
own  youth  to  begin  another’s  story,  and  he  leaves  in  time.  “With  the 
years,”  says  Barnabooth,  “my  personality  will  doubtless  establish  it¬ 
self.  Then  I  shall  write  ‘I’  without  hesitating,  believing  I  know  what 
it  is.”  Larbaud  has  so  far  avoided  his  hero’s  menace.  He  remains 
intellectually  “a  perpetual  runaway  from  every  environment.” 

“Had  I  also  my  part  to  play,  I  could  not  be  attentive.  And  I 
want  to  lose  nothing.”  Thus  speaks  Barnabooth ;  but  how  well  this 
sentence  defines  Larbaud’s  attitude!  A.  C.  Barnabooth,  ses  oeuvres 
completes,  c’est-a-dire  un  conte,  ses  poesies,  et  son  journal  intime  is 
a  book  which,  to  borrow  still  another  of  his  formulas,  “one  must  not 
only  have  read,  but  know,”  a  compendium  of  the  aspirations  of  our 
epoch.  If  some  stiffness  is  remarked  in  it,  this  is  because  men,  in 
Larbaud’s  universe,  are  good  for  little  but  to  express  ideas,  women 
alone  provoking  them  without  moreover  expressing  them.  Barna¬ 
booth,  a  multimillionaire  escaping  from  his  caste,  made  up  of  cru¬ 
elties  and  of  pities,  sinks  to  kleptomania  without  finding  attrac¬ 
tion  in  vice,  attempts  to  be  charitable  without  succeeding  in  not 
hating  the  poor,  tries  love  without  acquiring  a  taste  for  women,  de¬ 
files  himself  without  transcending  the  literature  of  the  Borborygmes : 

Je  veux  baiser  le  mepris  a  pleines  levres ; 

Je  veux  etre  le  plus  ignoble  des  hommes  .  .  . 

Finally,  disgusted  by  “all  this  cuisine  of  life,”  incapable  of  taking  in¬ 
terest  in  himself,  he  returns  to  his  America  “to  confront  the  unknown,” 
and  Europe  remains  abandoned  to  the  voluptuous  Putouarey  who  lives 
like  Montaigne  or  Stendhal  and  sometimes  feels  himself  a  simple  hog,  to 
Stephane,  “the  butcher  of  Karzan,”  who  is  always  working  mystically 
“to  realize,  oh!  however  little  it  may  be,”  a  constructor  who  asserts: 
“All  nobility  comes  from  the  gift  of  oneself  ...  I  love  the  man  who 
raises  himself,  'however  little  .  .  .  Economy  and  love  are  perhaps 
two  names  for  the  same  thing.” 


SOME  TENDENCIES  357 

Too  indiscreet  to  knock  at  half-open  doors,  Larbaud  has,  since 
Barnabooth,  drawn  no  great,  virile  figure,  Marc  and  Reginald  in 
Beaute,  mon  beau  souci  .  .  .  being  merely  awkward  screens  between  the 
artist  and  his  model;  but,  warned  “not  to  try  to  extend  the  long  ad¬ 
venture,”  having  learned  from  Larbaud  that  “liaisons  begin  in 
champagne  and  end  in  camomile,”  with  what  a  sentiment  of  deliver¬ 
ance  we  welcome  the  women  with  whom  he  peoples  his  novels !  Bless¬ 
ings  on  these  creatures  who  heal  man  of  man,  awakening  in  his  in-, 
telligence  a  new  sensual  vision  of  the  world!  For  with  Larbaud 
women  all  play  this  part  of  helping  to  free  the  mind.  The  ardours 
of  Fermina,  noble  and  triumphant  in  mystic  or  amorous  exaltation, 
“the  Genevese  gentleness”  of  Rachel  Frutiger,  the  equivocal  coldness 
of  Gertie  “smiling  and  showing  her  small  teeth  under  her  heavy  lips,” 
leave  in  the  imagination  the  same  many-coloured  wake  as  the  ambiguous 
friends,  Rose  Lourdin  and  Rosa  Kessler,  as  the  sisters  of  the  doomed 
women,  Inga  and  Romana  locked  in  each  other’s  arms.  And  because 
of  the  beauty  of  her  body,  “silk  and  satin,”  their  sovereign  is  Queenie 
Crossland,  a  young  girl  who  “was  before  the  intellectual  life  like  a 
child  before  a  piano  it  cannot  play  and  who  marvels  when,  touching  the 
notes  at  random,  it  succeeds  in  producing  a  harmony” — a  woman 
who  transforms  herself  so  unconsciously  into  an  object  of  art,  “exactly 
like  the  woman  painted  on  a  vase  described  by  Thyrsis  in  the  first 
idyll  of  Theocritus” ;  but,  in  spite  of  the  charm  of  Inga,  “the  good 
comrade  who  never  said  no,  the  mate  and  sometimes  the  companion,” 
the  witty  queen  of  them  all  is  the  invisible  one,  “she  of  whom  I  think, 
with  her  linen  which,  crumpled  up,  I  could  hold  in  my  closed  fist.” 

“Did  they  really  love  each  other?  Perhaps  at  bottom  they  loved 
but  the  kisses  they  exchanged.”  There  are  two  sorts  of  lovers  in 
i  Larbaud:  those  moved  merely  by  the  ambition  “to  have”  a  certain 
j  woman,  by  “the  difficulty  of  the  undertaking” ;  the  others,  the  “happy 
,  lovers,”  those  between  whom  everything  happens  “as  if,  in  spite  of 
ourselves,  outside  of  ourselves,  her  life  and  mine  loved  each  other,” 
those  who  can  separate  while  love  is  still  a  lovely  ripe  fruit  at  their 
f  lips  and  who  go  away  without  bitterness :  “Points  of  suspension ; 

!  a  blank ;  and  a  new  chapter  opens  a  fresh  page” — happy  to  the  very 
end,  since  they  have  risked,  in  the  inspiring  adventure,  neither  their 
pride  nor  their  heart,  two  motives  of  vain  suffering.  They  will  never 
have  lost  their  lucidity  in  this  invitation  to  mingle  the  vestments  of  the 
woman’s  body  and  those  of  the  man’s  mind.  How  naturally  Romana 
incites  her  painter  to  remember  one  of  Lucian’s  dialogues !  Slyly, 
j  the  supple  intelligence  takes  back  what  it  had  not  given,  only  lent. 
For  real  sensuality,  the  one  sensuality  which  lasts,  is  the  artist’s ;  but 


358  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

its  bonds  must  be  broken:  “At  each  new  word  I  learned,  I  felt  I  had 
filed  my  prison  bars  a  little  further.”  In  a  voluptuous  abandonment, 
Larbaud  has  caressed  the  sweet  foreign  syllables:  “la  chica  .  .  .  o 
camerado  close!  .  .  .  Queenie  .  .  .  la  cara,  la  diletta,  Vimica  .  . 
Phantasies  of  sensualized  intelligence,  always  sure  to  return  to  its 
mooring:  some  immortal  verse  of  Malherbe’s,  of  Maynard’s,  “those 
French  words  which  are,  in  the  series  of  speech,  what  the  gold  tips  are 
in  the  series  of  cigarettes.”  Having  heard  the  confession  of  La  Rue 
Soufflot: 

Au  fond,  malgre  la  mer 

Et  tant  de  courses,  nous  ne  sommes  jamais  sorti 

D’ici,  et  toute  notre  vie  aura  ete 

Un  petit  voyage  en  rond  et  en  zigzag  dans  Paris, 

let  one  reread  the  opening  paragraph  of  Amants,  heureux  amants, 
that  paragraph  of  a  dozen  long  pages  where  the  light  of  the  mind 
plays  on  the  inner  monologue  like  the  ray  on  Inga’s  throat,  and  one 
will  recognize  the  originality  of  an  art  which,  without  impoverishing 
the  multiple  modern  universe,  reflects  all  its  play  of  colour  in  the 
mirror  of  a  French  intelligence. 

The  inner  monologue — different  from  the  conventionalized  confession 
of  Adolphe  or  of  Dominique — thus  enters  our  psychological  literature. 
Lively  and  spasmodic  in  Morand,  it  aims,  in  Proust,  at  the  majesty 
of  a  “discourse  on  the  passions.”  Larbaud  attributes  the  progress 
between  the  fluid  developments  of  Barnabooth  and  the  swarming  con¬ 
centration  of  the  Amants,  to  the  influence  of  James  Joyce.  The 
epic  spirit  of  Ulysses,  the  ampleness  of  its  architecture,  its  surpris¬ 
ing  short  cuts,  even  its  literary  and  casuistical  pedantry  explain 
Larbaud’s  admiration  but  do  not  diminish  the  merit  of  his  prose 
where  all  is  ease,  clarity  and  grace.  However  the  old  masters  of  the 
intimate  monologue,  Browning  and  Dostoievsky,  have  more  frequently 
given  it  the  dramatic  form,  the  author  disappearing  behind  Guido 
or  Ordynov.  Will  Jean  Paulhan  bring  us  back  to  these  illustrious 
models?  A  thorough  study  of  the  language  has  led  him  to  the  in¬ 
dictment  of  Jacob  Cow  le  pirate.  Words  are  not  our  slaves  but 
tyrants  binding  and  betraying  us  in  the  manner  of  the  rhyme  which 
“establishes  momentarily  a  claim  of  neighbouring  sounds  on  neighbour¬ 
ing  thoughts.”  If  one  already  takes,  “being  alone,  so  many  pre¬ 
cautions  and  images  to  talk  to  oneself,”  to  what  danger  do  not  words 
expose  us  in  our  relations  with  other  people?  Three  stories  by  Paulhan 
examine  thrdfc  of  these  conflicts  of  which  words  are  the  arbiters.  They 
denounce  the  crime  of  Aytre  qui  perd  Vhabitude,  they  provoke  the 


SOME  TENDENCIES  359 

tardy  exchange  which  permits  La  Guerison  severe ,  they  aid  the  nar¬ 
rator  of  Le  Pont  traverse  to  heal  a  tragic  misunderstanding;  and 
one  sees  very  clearly  the  route  by  which  this  enterprise  of  per¬ 
petual  interrogation  can  aspire  to  regain  the  high  human  impartiality 
of  Bishop  Blougram’s  Apology  or  of  Mr.  Sludge  the  Medium. 

But  before  creating  a  new  order,  perhaps  it  is  necessary  to  domi¬ 
nate  the  actual  disorder.  “The  world’s  out  of  joint”  and,  of  this 
disequilibrium  Germany  offers  the  most  striking  and  the  most  incom¬ 
prehensible  spectacle  for  a  cultivated  Frenchman.  Thus,  in  Siegfried 
et  le  Limousin,  under  cover  of  the  plot  of  a  humanist  ingenious  in 
creating  himself  a  second  brain,  Giraudoux  has  painted  “that  great 
human,  poetic  country  which  the  majority  of  Germans  get  along 
perfectly  well  without  to-day  but  of  which  I  have  not  yet  found  the 
equivalent.”  In  it  he  can  in  fact  exercise  his  art  on  a  reality  which 
he  has  not  even  had,  this  time,  to  dissociate,  disguising  Berlin  as  the 
capital  of  Haroun  al  Raschid,  describing  in  1922  the  trumped-up 
centenary  of  Goethe,  forging  letters  of  Heine  at  Munich,  fearlessly 
facing  kisses  now  that  he  knows  women  to  be  less  “rare  and  perishable” 
than  men,  reassured  as  to  the  most  complicated  enigmas  by  the  knowl¬ 
edge  that  a  “knot  always  ends  by  coming  undone  through  simple 
disgust  at  being  a  knot.”  And  shortly  after  this  exquisite  Siegfried, 
appeared  Malice  in  which  Mac  Orlan,  in  the  setting  of  Mayence  and 
Wiesbaden,  offered  us  the  realistic  picture  of  the  Pension  Kreutzer. 
Here  the  flesh,  all  obstacles  overcome,  precipitates  a  drama,  grotesque 
and  violent,  the  protagonists  of  which  are  an  average  Frenchman,  a 
Bavarian  woman  who  “possessed  the  essential  virtues  permitting  each 
to  create  himself  a  little  hell  to  his  measure,”  a  lemon  yellow  woolen 
doll  and  .  .  .  the  devil.  For  the  supernatural  always  answers  the 
appeal  of  the  human  passions.  And  no  decadence  is  irremediable  so 
long  as  the  lucid  look  of  the  artist  watches  over  the  universe. 

5.  ANDRE  GIDE 

“It  has  been  said  I  run  after  my  youth.  It  is  true.  And  not 
after  mine  alone.”  The  Feuillet  in  which  Andre  Gide  makes  this 
comment  appeared  the  same  season  he  had  published  two  volumes  of 
selected  extracts  and  his  article  on  the  resumption  of  intellectual  re¬ 
lations  with  Germany,  at  the  moment  when  he  was  beginning  his  six 
public  lectures  on  Dostoievsky ;  and  the  same  adversaries  who  had, 
until  then  reproached  him  with  never  leaving  the  cenacle  of  a  little 
chapel  have  henceforth  accused  him  of  going  down  into  the  streets  of 
Athens  there  again  to  corrupt  youth.  The  moment  is  then  propi¬ 
tious  for  examining  why  the  author  of  Les  Nourritures  terrestres,  of  Le 


360  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Retour  de  V Enfant  prodigue  and  of  La  Porte  etroite,  the  writer  who 
has  already  made  himself  the  foremost  prose-writer  of  his  generation 
also  deserves  to  be  called  a  master. 

His  maiden  volume,  Les  Cahiers  d’ Andre  Walter  (1891),  palpitated 
with  the  anxieties  of  a  meditative  adolescence.  That  breviary  of 
scruples,  comparable  to  Barres’  “manuals,”  was  followed  by  the  Poesies 
d’ Andre  Walter  which  prolonged  it  with  the  smiles  of  a  Christian 
Laforgue : 

Nous  rapetassons  de  faux  syllogismes 
Et  nous  ergotons  sur  la  Trinite, 

Mats  tout  ga,  ga  manque  un  peu  de  lyrisme  .  .  . 

and  preluded,  in  the  minor  key,  the  first  two  satirical  farces : 

Des  pleurs  encore!  ah!  ga  devient  trop  monotone! 

Among  the  Cinq  Traites,  the  Narcisse  and  the  Tentative  Amoureuse 
announced  Les  N ourritures  of  which  Philoctete  on  le  traite  des  trois 
morales  was  to  draw  the  conclusions,  while  El  Hadj  was  to  inaugurate 
those  nostalgic  reveries  of  orientalized  Orient  and  Africa  which  would 
be  found  again  in  Amyntas  and  LTmmoraliste.  Le  Voyage  d’Urien 
contains  Gide’s  tribute  to  Symbolism.  His  Envoi  moreover : 

Madame!  je  vous  ai  trompee: 

Nous  navons  pas  fait  ce  voyage, 

led  to  Paludes  which  is  the  Dupuis  and  Cotonnet  of  Symbolism,  the 
double  satire  of  the  normal  man  and  of  a  certain  malady.  Les 
N ourritures  terrestres  (1897),  responding  to  the  anguish  of  the  Cahier 
Noir,  forms  for  Gide’s  work  a  preface  into  which  he  has  put  himself 
entirely,  in  which  he  has  developed  “strange  possibilities  in  each  man,” 
seeking  the  paths  of  “a  pathetic  existence”  in  the  negation  of  every 
rule,  the  exaltation  of  “the  sensual  ecstasy,”  the  annihilation  of  every¬ 
thing  which  is  not,  Amyntas  will  say,  “sensation  and  fervour.”  Le 
Promethee  mal  enchaine,  “a  sheaf  of  tares,”  teaches  us  to  nourish  the 
eagle  which  fastens  itself  to  each.  In  his  desire  to  set  out,  like  Sind- 
bad’s  ship,  to  the  open  sea,  Gide  turned  to  the  theatre  in  which  he 
carried  on  two  curious  conflicts :  the  heroic  madness  of  Candaule  who 
pays  with  his  life  for  his  triumph  over  jealousy  and  egotism ;  the  love 
of  Saul  for  David — a  troubling  love  aroused  not  only  by  the  charm  of 
a  mind  in  the  making  but  also  by  the  passion  for  a  perfect  boy’s  body. 
The  same  obsession  reappeared  in  LTmmoraliste,  a  “fruit  full  of  bitter 
cinders”  the  living  life  of  which  the  protagonist  discovers  somewhat 
late,  to  cling  to  it  so  fiercely  that  he  conceives  a  pitiless  hatred  for 


SOME  TENDENCIES  361 

sickness  as  if  it  were  a  vice  and  no  longer  cherishes  anything  but  the 
inhuman.  In  the  meantime  Gide  began  to  collect  in  book  form  the 
criticisms,  witty  and  profound  without  being  dogmatic,  contained  in 
Pretextes  and  Nouveaux  Pretextes.  In  1907  appeared  Le  Retour  de 
VEnfant  prodigue,  the  Christian  counterpart  of  the  pagan  Nourritures, 
a  presentiment  of  which  was  already  felt  in  its  “And  what  I  looked 
for  along  the  roads,  was  not  at  first  so  much  an  inn  as  my  hunger,”  in¬ 
terpreting  the  contradictory  aspirations  which  drive  man  to  leave  the 
divine  dwelling  or  to  return  to  it.  In  1909  Gide  published  La  Porte 
etroite,  the  story  of  a  soul  in  love  with  “celestial  glory”  which  at¬ 
tained  mystic  joy  through  the  supreme  renunciation.  Since  then  he 
has  published  Isabelle  and  La  Symphonie  pastorale,  both  transition 
works,  the  first  rather  unexpected  in  its  semi-detective  hunt  for  an 
elusive  truth,  the  second  clear  and  not  less  mysterious  in  its  tragic 
conflict  of  Catholicism,  Protestantism  and  life ;  but  La  Symphonie 
pastorale  (1919)  discharges  a  debt  to  the  past.  From  the  point  of 
view  of  his  evolution,  Gide’s  last  novel  is  actually  Les  Caves  du  Vatican 
in  which,  on  the  eve  of  the  war,  he  studied  social  atheism  and  the 
provisional  disorder  which  awaits  a  new  discipline,  doubtless  “that  ex¬ 
cess  of  renunciation,  that  denial  of  virtue  through  very  love  of  virtue” 
which  is  read  in  the  published  fragments  of  Les  Faux  monnayeurs ; 
and  the  thirty  years  of  literary  activity  thus  summed  up  certainly 
give  us  the  right  to  treat  him  as  the  bearer  of  a  “new  and  terrible 
truth,”  as  a  master  always  partial  because  always  urgent,  whether  he 
exhorts  to  the  dangerous  life  or  kneels  with  the  prodigal  son  “at 
once  like  him  smiling  and  his  face  wet  with  tears.” 

Throughout  the  caprices  of  the  imagination  and  the  vagrancies  of 
desire,  Andre  Gide  has  never  ceased  to  pursue  God.  “Wherever  you 
may  go,”  proclaims  Les  Nourritures,  “you  can  meet  but  God.”  To 
which  Les  Nouvelles  Nourritures  will  reply:  “It  is  my  heart’s  grati- 
i  tude  which  makes  me  invent  God  daily.”  All  his  books  state  the  same 
problem.  For,  in  spite  of  their  diversity,  there  are  strong  and  subtle 
ties  among  them.  “Narcissus  dreams  of  Paradise  .  .  .  Wish  not, 
Nathanael,  to  find  God  elsewhere  than  everywhere  .  .  .  David,” 
pleads  Saul,  “is  it  Thy  will  we  should  unite  against  God?”  As  a 
critic,  Gide  will  praise  Peguy  for  his  lesson  of  heroism  resuming  the 
struggle  with  the  Lord  for  Him  to  bless  us.  In  this  quest  for  God, 
there  is,  at  the  point  of  departure,  hatred  of  the  flesh,  aversion  for 
women,  to  which  Andre  Walter’s  Cahier  Noir  is  a  quivering  testimony. 
La  Tentative  amour euse  repeats  it :  “Luc  desired  love,  but  feared 
carnal  possession  as  a  deadly  thing.”  Le  Roi  Candaule  culminates  in 
I  a  brutal  “Sew  up  your  veil !”  very  close  to  David’s  cry :  “I  hate  her !” 


362  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

If,  leaving  the  Protestant  milieu  he  pictured  in  Si  le  grain  ne 
meurt  ...»  Gide  has  carried  his  Protestantism  to  the  point  of 
Nietzscheism,  he  has  never  forgotten  its  moral  preoccupations. 
Andre  Walter  enjoyed  humiliating  himself  in  his  dearest  affectations: 
“Through  hatred  of  the  words  I  have  loved  too  well,  I  would  like  to 
write  badly  on  purpose.  I  will  break  the  harmonies,  even  should  they  be 
fortuitous”;  but  he  experienced  the  pride  of  “that  struggle  in  the 
dark”  .  .  .  “What  honour,  O  God,  that  Thou  hast  judged  me 
worthy !”  Gide  has  stressed  “the  pride  of  the  priest  who  would  reveal 
the  mysteries.”  There  remains  nevertheless  something  of  the  pastor 
in  him,  with  his  “mania  for  proselytizing.”  In  vain  he  has  hoped 
“through  the  wear  of  my  senses  ...  to  lure  my  soul  from  its  God.” 
In  vain  he  cries:  “Nathanael!  I  no  longer  believe  in  sin!”  L’lm- 
moraliste  is  the  book  of  a  moralist.  He  is  haunted  by  the  Bible. 
Moreover,  every  time  he  refers  to  it,  he  goes  deeper  into  its  beauty,  as, 
for  example,  when  he  bases  upon  this  verse:  “Pie  who  would  save  his 
life  shall  lose  it ;  but  he  who  would  give  it  will  render  it  living  in  truth.” 
The  classicism  of  the  Pretextes,  “reflections  on  some  points  of  litera¬ 
ture  and  of  morality.”  Bethsabe,  the  rounds  of  Les  Nourritures, 
Saul,  all  derive  their  beauty  from  this  biblical  lyricism.  He  follows  the 
gospel  to  its  most  mysterious  passages  and  it  is  clear  how  his  preface 
to  Armance  on  “the  dissociation  of  love  and  of  pleasure”  is  connected 
with  the  prophetic  words :  “We  shall  be  as  the  angels.”  When 
Philoctete  declares :  “I  would  reach  the  greatest  transparency,  the 
suppression  of  my  opaqueness,”  he  comes  back  to  the  Bible  and  the 
idea  of  a  physical  transformation  of  humanity  deduced  from  it  by 
Kiriloff  in  The  Possessed.  In  La  Symphonic  pastorale  Gide  launches 
a  heroine  ignorant  of  sin  into  the  heart  of  modern  life,  under  cover 
of  the  dangerous  parable  of  the  lost  sheep.  However  he  rejects 
Catholicism.  The  pastor  in  the  Symphonie  says  it  for  him:  “Be¬ 
tween  Christ  and  Saint  Paul  I  choose  Christ.” 

Not  through  love  of  latitudinarianism :  La  Porte  etroite  proved 
that ;  but  he  wishes,  like  Dostoievsky,  to  touch  the  bottom  of  Christian¬ 
ity,  its  latent  anarchy.  His  Souvenirs  de  la  cour  d’ assises  proclaims 
it:  “When  one  is  among  the  public,  one  can  still  believe  in  justice. 
Seated  in  the  jury  box,  one  repeats  Christ’s  saying:  ‘Judge  not.’” 
Philoctete  denies  his  virtue  and  he  is  happy  in  this  destitution.  David 
in  Bethsabe  has  made  the  experiment : 

J’ai  voulu  prier  Dieu  et  puis  j’ai  commence  a  songer  .  .  . 

Gide  has  brought  the  prodigal  son  back  to  his  father’s  house,  but  he 
has  ordered  the  departure  of  the  younger  brother.  Others  have  cele- 


SOME  TENDENCIES  363 

brated  the  tradition  of  obedience.  He  himself  has  strongly  renewed 
that  of  fervent  anxiety — to  such  an  extent  that  if  he  happened, 
through  weariness,  to  return  at  last  to  the  House,  he  has  foreseen  that 
others  would  leave  it  for  the  desert  to  discover  there  the  desire  which 
animated  him. 

“I  do  not  find  precisely  interdictions  and  prohibitions  in  the  letter 
of  the  Gospels ;  but  the  point  is  to  contemplate  God  with  the  clearest 
possible  gaze  and  it  is  my  experience  that  each  object  I  covet  here 
on  this  earth  becomes  opaque,  through  the  very  fact  of  my  coveting 
it,  and  that,  the  moment  I  covet  it,  the  whole  world  loses  its  trans¬ 
parency,  or  else  my  look  loses  its  clearness,  so  that  God  ceases  to  be 
sensible  to  my  soul,  and  that  abandoning  the  Creator  for  the  creature, 
my  soul  ceases  to  live  in  Eternity,  and  loses  possession  of  the  kingdom 
of  God.”  This  fragment  from  Les  Nouvelles  Nourritures  which,  in 
its  admirable  prose,  evokes  depths  which  Dostoievsky  alone  had  ex¬ 
plored  with  an  equal  lucidity,  offers  one  of  the  keys  to  Gide’s  thought. 
The  pastor  in  the  Symphome  (a  work  in  which  the  whole  drama  is 
based  upon  the  impossibility  of  a  happiness  born  of  ignorance)  expe¬ 
riences  a  similar  clouding  of  vision :  “Sin  seems  intolerable  to  me 
and  I  do  not  wish  to  abandon  Christ.”  Riviere  has  remarked  that  for 
Gide  “one  idea  is,  above  all,  several  others”  and  he  himself  has  con¬ 
fessed  it :  “I  always  found  the  necessity  of  choosing  intolerable.  Choos¬ 
ing  appeared  to  me  not  so  much  electing  as  rejecting  what  I  did  not 
elect.”  He  will  repeat  it :  “I  have  never  been  able  to  give  up  any¬ 
thing;  and,  protecting  in  myself  at  once  the  best  and  the  worst,  I  have 
lived  torn  between  them.”  Even  Les  Caves  will  refuse  to  come  to  a 
conclusion.  The  desire  of  Isabelle's  narrator  is  “unavowably  whetted” 
by  this  dilemma  which  it  does  not  decide:  should  one  or  should  one 
not,  force  events?  “Whatever  is  delicious  to  me  is  hostile  to  me.” 
That  is  the  prediction  which  maddens  Saul.  Already  Andre  Walter 
stated  it:  “I  have  never  had  a  happiness  which  my  reason  did  not 
disapprove”  and  he  dreaded  rhetoric.  Thus  Nathanael  will  learn  “not 
sympathy,  but  love,”  passionate  fervour: 

Ce  que  j’ai  connu  de  plus  beau  sur  la  terre, 

Ah!  Nathanael,  c’est  ma  faint! 

( Nourritures .) 

Beauty  resides  in  risk.  Alissa  risks  this  impure  world  on  the  as¬ 
surance  of  eternal  life.  Candaule  risks  his  sensual  happiness  on  the 
hope  of  a  greater  happiness  and  does  “an  insensate  thing,”  perhaps 
sublime,  in  offering  Gyges  the  body  of  his  Nyssia.  Gide  in  Si  le  gram 
ne  meurt  .  .  .  ,  repeating  Karamazoff’s  motto,  reminds  us  that  a  grain 


364  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

of  barley  must  die  in  order  to  bear  much  fruit,  that  the  human  being 
must  know  sensuality  and  sin  before  climbing  certain  heights.  Whence 
these  sudden  changes,  comic  in  Julius  and  Anthime,  dramatic  when 
Ulysses  pays  homage  to  the  virtue  of  Philoctete,  just  as  the  latter  has 
denied  it.  Which  leads  to  the  idea  the  most  opposed  to  faith  in  God 
(Kiriloff’s  suicide  is  an  instance),  to  the  idea  of  the  gratuitous  act. 
“I  call  man  the  animal  capable  of  a  gratuitous  act.”  Thus  speaks 
the  waiter  in  Promethee.  Lafcadio,  a  creation  of  Gide’s  intelligence 
and  sensuality,  goes  as  far  as  “motiveless  crime” ;  and,  under  their 
author’s  impulsion,  Julius  and  he  indulge,  on  this  idea  of  gratuitous¬ 
ness,  in  a  reckless  game  of  “leapfrog.”  One  would  not  dare  aver  that 
this  intoxication  was  entirely  exempt  from  divine  nostalgia.  Gide  has 
however  delighted  at  times  in  the  spectacle  of  his  own  virtuosity. 
Anxious  above  all  to  remain  “unengaged,”  reserving  himself  through 
his  inventive  deploying  many  detours  and  many  retreats,  he  has 
charged  Francis  Jammes’  verse  with  a  most  epigrammatic  meaning: 

Gide  qui  toujours  flotte  et  revient  d’ltalie  .  .  . 

He  has  occasionally  blended  the  solemn  and  the  infantile  in  his  por¬ 
trait  of  Menalque — Menalque,  or  the  necessity  of  theoretical  weak- 
mindedness — which  often  serves  to  crumble  the  writer’s  responsibilities. 
He  has  made  it  a  matter  of  coquetry  to  render  himself  “irreplaceable,” 
to  join  mystification  and  sincerity  in  “this  book  in  which  there  is  no 
one,”  to  play  with  his  contradictions :  “Nothing  amuses  me  more  than  a 
system  of  ethics  .  .  .  Certainly  it  has  often  pleased  me  that  a  doc¬ 
trine  should  justify  my  acts  to  myself ;  but  sometimes  I  have  been  able 
to  consider  it  merely  as  the  refuge  of  my  sensuality.”  He  has  foreseen 
that  this  mixture  of  taste  for  risk  and  of  crafty  prudence  would  seem 
“an  abominable  sophism  to  the  pious  soul  who  reads  me” ;  but  to  treat 
him  as  a  demoniac  is  not  to  do  justice  to  the  profound  human  truth  of 
his  evolution:  “I  came  to  understand  that  perfect  sincerity  .  .  .  the 
sincerity  not  simply  of  the  act  itself,  but  of  the  motive,  is  obtained 
only  by  the  most  constant  but  least  harsh  effort,  by  the  clearest  look — 
I  mean  by  that  the  least  open  to  the  suspicion  of  complacency,  and 
with  the  most  irony.” 

Moreover,  amid  the  rudest  assaults  of  his  disquietude,  he  has  kept  his 
assured  refuge — “classicism.”  He  says  in  Amyntas:  “To  under¬ 
stand  what  culture  signifies,  one  must  have  tasted  the  desert” ;  and  his 
Marche  turque  ends  with  the  desire  for  a  prompt  return  to  France. 
In  Les  Caves  he  has  extolled  life:  “In  life,  one  must  paint  in  fresco. 
Erasure  is  prohibited.”  This  element  of  the  irreparable  charms  him, 
but  he  knows  the  benefits  of  a  discipline.  “Mallarme,”  he  says  in  a 


SOME  TENDENCIES  365 

letter,  “taught  me  to  carry  over  entirely  into  the  work  of  art  the  idea 
of  constraint,  so  indispensable  to  my  nature,  and  to  make  of  it  a  sort  of 
artistic  obligation.”  On  this  essential  point  he  has  never  varied : 
“Art  is  always  the  result  of  a  constraint  .  .  .  Our  literature  has 
never  been  more  French  than  when  it  was  more  restrained  and  more 
refined.”  This  idea  is  strong  enough  to  colour  even  his  conception  of 
voluptuousness.  Michel,  in  LTmmoraliste,  seeks  “a  science  of  the  per¬ 
fect  utilization  of  self  by  an  intelligent  restraint.”  As  early  as  La 
Tentative  amour euse  he  formulated  another  of  its  consequences:  “I 
do  not  like  to  abandon  any  task  whatsoever,  once  I  have  undertaken 
it.”  This  discipline  is  crowned  with  an  aspiration  for  the  general: 
“A  great  man  has  but  one  concern — to  become  as  human  as  possible — 
let  us  say  rather,  to  become  commonplace.  And,  remarkable  fact,  it 
is  thus  he  becomes  most  personal.”  The  classicist,  like  the  Christian, 
saves  his  life  by  losing  it.  Twenty  years  later  he  will  emphasize  this 
initial  assertion:  “The  triumph  of  individualism  and  the  triumph  of 
classicism  are  one.  Now  the  triumph  of  individualism  lies  in  the  renun¬ 
ciation  of  individuality.”  He  joins  Nietzsche  and  Racine  through 
Dostoievsky.  He  had  always  “held  literary  anarchy  in  horror.” 
This  was  clearly  seen  when  the  author  of  Les  Caves  protested  against 
the  war  Dada  had  declared  on  the  French  language.  He  was  the 
better  qualified  for  this  role  as  defender  of  our  tongue  that,  even 
in  the  Symbolist  Urien,  the  most  “Schwobian”  of  his  books,  his 
prose  had  remained  firmly  classic,  that  his  Paludes  had  been  not  a 
treason  but  a  return  to  its  true  tradition.  Saul  and  Candaule  had 
presented  the  union  of  intimate  lyricism  and  of  almost  schematic  dry¬ 
ness  which  suited  these  two  conflicts  of  obscure  forces.  Gide  has  al¬ 
ways  preferred  to  indicate  the  themes  rather  than  develop  them  roman¬ 
tically.  He  also  defends  LTmmoraliste  against  the  reproach  of  ac¬ 
cusation  or  of  apology:  “I  have  sought  to  prove  nothing  but  to 
paint  well  and  to  illumine  well  my  painting.”  Not  a  single  fault  of 
taste  will  be  detected  in  the  construction  of  his  novels,  not  a  senti¬ 
mental  trait  in  the  pastor  “whose  heart  is  more  arid  than  the  desert.” 
He  has  noted  that  the  classic  writer  was  situated  beyond  his  emotion, 
not  short  of  it  like  the  romantic  writer,  and  his  phrasing  equals 
France’s  in  purity  with  that  added  “tremor”  which,  according  to 
Goethe,  is  the  best  of  man. 

Though  a  true  representative  of  classicism,  Gide  is  not  however 
narrowly  nationalistic — whence  his  conflict  with  Barres  and  Maurras. 
His  curiosity  remains  universal :  “I  am  always  awaiting  something  or 
other  unknown,  new  forms  of  art  and  new  thoughts.”  He  possesses 
the  sentiment  of  measure  and  reminds  Matisse  that  “the  artist  commits 


366  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

a  rare  imprudence  in  renouncing  painting  a  picture.”  Nor  does  he 
yield  to  artistic  caprices  any  more  than  he  had  yielded  to  friendly  ex¬ 
hortations  urging  him — after  L’Enfant  prodigue — to  return  to  his  own 
home  at  last.  Having  proposed  this  definition  to  Angele :  “Genius  is 
the  sentiment  of  resource,”  he  sends  her  this  warning  also :  “Whatever 
classicism  refuses  to  integrate,  risks  turning  against  it.”  This  hu¬ 
manism  has  made  him  the  most  penetrating  of  critics  and  the  reader  of 
his  significant  Dostoievski  will  quickly  recognize  that  all  the  compari¬ 
sons  with  Dostoievsky  whereby  we  have  enlightened  this  study  have 
been  inspired  by  the  insistence  with  which  he  stresses  in  them  certain 
ideas  which  are  particularly  dear  to  him.  His  criticism  appears 
fluctuating.  Nevertheless,  every  time  he  has  commentated  a  master 
— Nietzsche,  Dostoievsky,  Baudelaire  or  Stendhal — he  has  lighted 
up  real  depths,  the  abysses  of  which  no  one  speaks.  When  he 
seems  somewhat  paradoxical,  when  he  borrows  a,  little  from  Theseus 
who  “forgets  to  change  sail  as  he  forgets  Ariadne  at  Naxos,” 
when  he  remarks  that  uprooting  has  obliged  Racadot  to  be  origi¬ 
nal,  his  sallies  open  horizons.  He  quickly  became  conscious  of  his 
authority.  He  has  put  it,  through  lectures  or  translations,  at  the 
service  of  the  great  foreign  writers,  from  Shakespeare  to  Tagore,  from 
Blake  to  Browning  and  Conrad.  He  has  generously  welcomed  the 
debuts  of  Larbaud,  Romains  and  Giraudoux.  He  found  tenderly 
delicate  words  to  mourn  for  Philippe:  “Near  him,  after  a  little  while, 
one  felt  ashamed  of  being  too  big.”  He  has  the  right  to  say  he  has 
interpreted  Nietzsche’s  watchword  as  “be  hard  for  yourselves  before 
being  hard  for  others  .  .  .  Certain  critics  have  reproached  me  with 
the  eclecticism  of  my  tastes  and  have  dubbed  me  a  dilettante  because 
I  demand  of  myself  alone  the  qualities  they  demand  only  of  others. 
.  .  .  They  do  well,  and  I  am  grateful  to  them  for  preparing 
readers  for  me.”  The  future  will  seriously  repeat  what  he  wrote  here 
with  a  smile.  Gide  is  an  admirable  artist,  in  all  the  forms  he  has 
tried.  Who  could  remain  indifferent  to  the  humour  of  the  three 
Soties,  so  rich  in  Paludes,  so  capricious  in  Le  Prometliee,  alternately 
clownish  and  elusive  in  Les  Caves?  The  fantasies  (dream  in  Pa¬ 
ludes,  Simultaneistic  attempt  or  affectation  of  negligent  notes  in 
Les  Nourritures )  are  as  classically  constructed  as  a  certain  page 
on  the  slowing  down  of  time  in  Narcisse.  Sometimes  he  bares  the 
methods  of  his  art,  in  Isabelle  told  obliquely,  in  La  Symphonie,  a 
candid  confession.  Each  portrait  lives  in  them  however  thanks  to  the 
relief  possessed  by  even  the  slightest  puppets  in  Les  Caves  where  all  the 
dialogues  develop  in  a  refined  allegro.  With  an  infallible  simplicity, 
he  weaves  the  dramas  of  La  Porte  etroite  or  La  Symphonie  pastorale. 


SOME  TENDENCIES  367 

Andre  Walter’s  Caluer  blanc  shows  his  art  in  idealizing  reality  in  order 
to  extract  from  it  La  Porte  etroite,  one  of  the  loftiest  psychological 
novels  of  our  literature  through  the  subtlety  of  its  analyses,  through 
the  intense  pathos  of  Alissa’s  diary ;  and,  had  one  absolutely  to  choose, 
one  would  name  as  his  masterpiece  Le  Retour  de  VEnfant  prodigue 
for  the  perfection  of  the  construction,  the  plenitude  of  the  thought 
and  the  nobility  of  the  meditation.  Les  Nourritures  terrestres  is 
written  in  a  fluid  prose  which  unravels  every  complexity:  “Be  not 
deceived,  Nathanael,  by  the  harsh  title  it  has  pleased  me  to  give  this 
book.  I  might  have  called  it  Menalque,  but  Menalque  never,  any  more 
than  yourself,  existed.  The  one  man’s  name  this  book  could  have 
borne  is  my  own;  but  how  then  should  I  have  dared  sign  it?” — which 
condenses  into  a  few  words  the  quivering  lyricism :  “I  have  made  my¬ 
self  a  prowler  to  be  able  to  graze  whatever  prowls.  I  am  seized  with 
tenderness  for  whatever  knows  not  where  to  warm  itself,  and  I 
have  passionately  loved  whatever  roves.”  There  exists  at  present  a 
Gide  sentence,  proceeding  sometimes  by  unfolding:  “At  once  I  per¬ 
suaded  myself  that  there  are  many  things  which  appear  impossible  only 
so  long  as  they  have  not  been  tried”;  sometimes  by  juxtaposition: 
“What  I  like  least  in  a  friend,  ordinarily,  is  indulgence.  Albert  was 
not  indulgent.  One  could,  at  need,  when  with  him,  find  arms  against 
oneself.  And,  without  being  too  conscious  of  it,  I  sought  them.” 
Above  all  he  excels  in  those  brief  sentences  where  emotion  speaks 
gravely  in  a  low  tone:  “I  put  myself  into  a  state  of  hostility  .  .  . 
I  am  going  to  speak  at  length  of  my  body  .  .  .  Others  could  have 
made  a  book  of  it  .  .  .  Look  out  for  the  door-steps.”  Perhaps  this 
perfection  of  the  artist  has  sometimes  appeased  his  ardent  thirst 
for  God.  Perhaps  this  conquest  of  the  absolute  has  accorded  him  the 
joy  of  possessing  peace  for  an  instant:  “Shall  I  tell  you  what  keeps 
me  from  believing  in  eternal  life?  It  is  this  quasi-perfect  satisfaction 
which  I  taste  in  the  very  effort  and  in  the  immediate  realization  of 
happiness  and  harmony.” 

Should  his  originality  be  questioned?  Certain  critics  will  reproach 
him  with  having  rethought  Nietzsche  and  Dostoievsky;  but  just  as 
Kiriloff  started  from  a  Christian  commonplace,  so  he  will  be  able  to 
reply:  “Everything  has  been  said  already;  but  as  no  one  listens, 
we  must  always  begin  again.”  Recently  an  English  article  repre¬ 
sented  him  as  “just  missing  being  a  great  writer” — a  judgment  admis¬ 
sible  only  from  a  foreigner  insensible  to  the  marvellous  use  Gide  makes 
of  our  language,  “a  piano  without  a  pedal.”  Rereading  his  Explica¬ 
tions  it  is  easy  to  see  what  has  superficially  justified  this  opinion: 
his  reserve,  his  lagging  behind  himself,  a  great  part  of  his  work  having 


368  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

been  the  price  he  had  to  pay  to  fight  free  of  the  past.  Haunted  by  the 
Goncourts’  saying:  “One  does  not  write  the  books  one  wishes,”  con¬ 
vinced  that  many  books  are  “but  a  deferred  temptation,”  he  has  often 
disconcerted  those  who  took  his  invocations  literally:  “Rise,  winds 
of  my  thought,  which  will  scatter  these  ashes !”  Sometimes  he  has  dis¬ 
appointed  the  disciples  who,  having  listened  to  his  “I  have  a  mortal 
hatred  for  every  theory  which  does  not  teach  a  sufficient  employment 
of  my  strength  and  virtue,”  expected  warlike  ardours  of  him.  There 
is  however  in  his  fear  of  choosing  the  sense  of  a  profound  complexity: 
“There  are  days  when  to  repeat  to  myself  that  two  and  two  still  make 
four,  is  enough  to  fill  me  with  a  certain  beatitude — and  the  mere  sight 
of  my  fist  on  the  table  .  .  .  and  other  days  when  this  is  completely 
one  to  me.”  Hesitation  is  here  called  intelligence.  For  no  one  has 
better  felt  the  irremediable  flight  of  the  hours :  “You  will  think,  you 
will  say:  the  fruits  were  there.  Their  weight  bent,  already  wearied 
the  branches ;  my  mouth  was  there  and  it  was  full  of  desires ;  hut  my 
mouth  remained  shut,  and  my  hands  were  unable  to  reach  out  because 
they  were  joined  in  prayer;  my  soul  and  my  body  remained  desperately 
athirst.”  La  Symphonie  pastorale,  his  “final  debt  to  the  past,”  pro¬ 
nounced  the  failure  of  the  Protestant  and  of  the  Catholic  who  have 
succeeded  only  in  driving  the  woman  they  both  loved  to  despair.  The 
last  page  of  Les  Caves  announces  a  departure:  “Here  begins  a  new 
book.  O  palpable  truth  of  desire !  Thou  drivest  the  phantoms  of 
my  spirit  into  the  penumbra.”  Nevertheless  the  last  word  remains 
terribly  equivocal,  for  it  might  be  applied  to  Gide  as  well  as  to 
Lafcadio:  “Does  he  still  consider  yielding?”  Spontaneously  the 
reader  returns  to  the  shifting  Conversation  avec  un  AUemand: 
“Action  interests  me  not  so  much  by  the  sensation  it  gives  me  as 
by  its  consequences,  its  resonance.  That  is  why,  if  it  interests  me 
passionately,  I  believe  it  interests  me  still  more  when  committed  by 
another.  I  am  afraid,  you  understand,  of  compromising  myself,  I 
mean  to  say  of  limiting  what  I  might  do  by  what  I  do  ...  I  prefer 
making  others  act  to  acting  myself.” 

Posterity,  welcoming  him  among  its  guides,  will  not  respect 
such  shades — which  perhaps  still  have  their  origin  in  religious  scru¬ 
ples.  Willingly  or  unwillingly,  it  will  rivet  him  to  some  essential 
truths.  Perhaps  it  will  accept  “this  state  of  dialogue”  in  which  he 
has  delighted;  but  it  will  bring  out  its  affirmations.  “Nathanael,  at 
present,  cast  aside  my  book.”  No,  it  will  not  cast  aside  Les  Nour- 
ritures  terreStres,  but  it  will  take  the  author  of  Nouvelles  Nourritures 
at  his  word:  “I  have  written  so  that,  later  on,  an  adolescent,  such  as 
I  was  at  the  age  of  sixteen,  but  freer,  bolder,  more  accomplished,  may 


SOME  TENDENCIES  369 

find  here  a  response  to  his  palpitating  interrogation.”  This  response 
it  will  discover  in  these  words  of  his :  “Life  may  be  lovelier  than 
!  men  admit  .  .  .  Ah !  I  have  lived  too  prudently  until  to-day.  One 
must  be  lawless  to  listen  to  the  new  law.  O  deliverance!  O  lib¬ 
erty!”  And  it  will  count  among  its  masters  the  great  writer  who,  in 
!  spite  of  so  many  obstacles  in  himself  and  outside  himself,  will  have 
paved  the  way  for  it  to  this  liberation. 


CHAPTER  XII 


CONCLUSION 


POETRY,  the  drama,  the  novel,  the  essay  show  literary  life 
under  its  creative  aspect.  There  exists  another  in  which  lan¬ 
guage  limits  itself  to  the  clear  expression  of  ideas,  the  manner 
of  giving  being  less  important  here  than  the  gift.  Doubtless  certain 
of  the  writers  whom  we  are  going  to  mention  rapidly  will  appear  in  the 
future  to  have  brought  as  many  flowers  as  fruits.  Sainte-Reuve’s 
weekly  articles  are  more  durable  than  many  a  work  calling  itself  dis¬ 
interested.  For  this  discrimination,  however,  the  collaboration  of 
time  is  indispensable.  It  would  be  unjust  and  rash  to  pretend,  in  the 
heat  of  the  debate,  to  go  beyond  the  limits  of  an  impartial  nomen¬ 
clature. 


1.  CRITICISM 

In  the  latter  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Ferdinand  Brunetiere 
represented  dogmatic  criticism  dominated  by  that  idea  of  the  evolu¬ 
tion  of  the  forms  which  beguiled  at  once  the  biologist  and  the  moralist 
in  him,  directing  his  Evolution  de  la  poesie  lyrique  and  his  Histoire  de 
la  litterature  fra/npaise.  Less  doctrinary,  Emile  Faguet,  who  devoted 
a  volume  to  each  of  the  four  great  centuries  of  our  literature,  is  re¬ 
markable  for  his  wide  culture  and  his  faculty  of  assimilation,  at  times 
superficial,  always  suggestive.  In  opposition  to  Francisque  Sarcey 
whose  sound  common  sense  and  love  of  well-made  plays  fill  Quarante  A  ns 
de  theatre,  the  Jules  Lemaitre  of  Les  Contemporams  and  of  Impres¬ 
sions  de  theatre  maintained  the  rights  of  an  Impressionist  embarrassed 
at  times  by  a  certain  timidity  of  taste  in  the  presence  of  genius ;  but,  as 
early  as  1889,  Charles  Morice,  in  La  Litterature  de  tout  a  Vheure, 
had  proclaimed  the  aspirations  of  the  young  writers  of  his  epoch 
whose  technique  Robert  de  Souza  studied  in  Le  Rythme  poetique 
(1892). 

Gustave  Lanson  has  since  inaugurated  a  more  scientific  method,  with 
( mutatis  mutandis )  laboratory  processes.  His  Manuel  hibliographique 
is  as  important  as  his  Histoire  de  la  litterature  fran^aise.  To  Rene 

Doumic  has  fallen  the  heritage  of  Brunetiere  in  the  Revue  des  Deux 

370 


CONCLUSION  371 

Mondes  and  at  the  Academy.  Paul  Souday  has  introduced  into  Le 
Temps  a  sympathetic  curiosity  concerning  the  young  authors  which 
rejuvenates  this  conservative  newspaper,  and  of  which  Les  Livres  du 
Temps  will  give  an  idea.  Pierre  Lasserre  began,  with  Le  Romantisme 
franpais,  as  a  disciple  of  Maurras ;  he  has  since  evolved  and  the  Renan 
he  announces  will  permit  us  to  determine  more  precisely  his  new 
j  position. 

Henry  Bidou,  who  was  novelist  and  military  critic,  prepares  out¬ 
lines  and  plans  for  the  historian  of  to-morrow.  Maurice  Boissard’s 
chronicles  have  the  charm — garrulous  at  times  to  the  point  of  irrita¬ 
tion — which  constitutes  the  originality  of  Paul  Leautaud.  Adolphe 
I  Van  Bever  has  not  confined  himself  to  the  study  of  the  poets  of 
to-day  of  whom  he  has  presented  an  anthology  now  classic.  His 
|  numerous  editions  and  prefaces  combine  the  most  refined  taste  with 
minute  erudition.  Andre  Fontainas  reserves  a  sympathetic  welcome 
to  the  poets.  To  Tancrede  de  Visan  we  owe  fine  studies  on  several  of 
our  great  unpopular  writers  and  on  L’ Attitude  du  Lyrisme  contem- 
porain.  Andre  Therive  maintains  the  tradition  of  Joseph  Prud- 
homme  in  criticism  ( Le  Franqais  langue  inorte )  as  in  the  novel:  (Le 
i  Voyage  de  M.  Renan,  Le  Plus  Grand  Peeke.)  Andre  Billy  has  found 
relaxation  in  the  witty  Barabour  from  the  conscientiousness  with 
|  which  he  analyses  the  works  of  his  contemporaries  to  whom  Fernand 
Vanderem  offers,  in  La  Vie  et  les  Lettres,  the  mirror  of  a  flexible  in¬ 
telligence.  Jacques  Boulenger  remembers  that  “  .  .  .  mais  Vart  est 
\  difficile”  and  approaches  current  literature  with  the  courtesy  of  a 
! gentleman,  while  Leon  Blum  mingles  his  judgments  with  brilliant  para¬ 
doxes.  Studies  on  French  literature  ( Apres  le  N  aturalisme,  L’EquL 
voque  du  Classicisme )  have  led  Gaston  Sauvebois  to  present  the 
problem  of  Europeanism.  With  Henri  Massis,  author  of  uninten¬ 
tionally  comic  Jugements,  Jacques  Maritain  professes  a  scholastic  and 
Thomist  intellectualism.  Louis-Martin-ChaufRer,  a  disciple  of  Proust, 
qcomes  back  to  criticism  in  his  Correspondences  apocryphes  under  the 
<  pastiche  form  which  made  Les  Nuits  et  Ennuis  of  Ernest  La  Jeunesse 
successful.  Aggressive  in  Leon  Werth’s  sallies,  criticism  attains 
p  European  impartiality  in  Albert  Thibaudet.  It  becomes,  with 
Jacques  Riviere,  a  luminous  recreation,  what  Jaures  would  have 
called  “a  progress  in  depth.”  His  Trente  Ans  de  vie  frangaise  and 
ftbe  Etudes  are  indispensable  to  the  student  of  the  contemporary 
period. 

Following  the  example  of  Gautier  and  Baudelaire,  numerous  writers 
:  jhave  occupied  themselves  with  art  criticism — for  example  Peladan, 

!  Kahn,  Faure,  Salmon  and  Klingsor.  Camille  Mauclair  has  analysed 


372  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

the  charm  of  impressionism  and  of  Schumann’s  “confidential  music.” 
The  vast  syntheses  of  the  scholars — Andre’s  Michel’s  Histoire  de  Vart 
and  Emile  Male’s  Art  Religieux  en  France  do  not  exclude  monographs 
in  which  amateurs  define  the  reasons  for  their  preferences :  Marcel 
Sembat  in  Henri  Matisse,  Ambroise  Vollard  in  Cezanne  and  Renoir. 
The  work  of  G.  Geoffrey,  author  of  a  monumental  Monet,  and  of  J. 
Adalbert  as  art  critics  is  as  important  as  their  work  as  novelists. 
To  these  names  must  be  added  those  of  Georges  Besson,  editor  of 
Les  Cahiers  d’aujourd’hui,  and  of  Francis  Fosca  who,  after  studies 
on  contemporary  painters,  has  given  a  charming  novel  of  false  his¬ 
tory,  Monsieur  Quatorze,  where  Vautrin  dupes  Henri  Beyle.  The 
explanations  of  the  painters  Andre  Lhote  and  Albert  Gleizes  re¬ 
new  the  tradition  of  Fromentin  with  their  introductions  to  Cubism. 
J.-E.  Blanche  has  constituted  himself  the  witty  critic  and  the  painter- 
novelist  of  contemporary  life.  Maurice  Denis  has,  in  Theories  and 
Nouvelles  Theories,  contributed  to  the  renaissance  of  sacred  art  while 
at  the  same  time  preaching  the  necessity  of  a  new  classic  “order” 
which  will  not  exclude  “voluptuousness” ;  and  the  barriers  are  felt  to 
fall  in  the  dialogues  where  Valery  looks  for  the  secrets  of  architec¬ 
ture  and  of  music. 

It  has  been  seen  how  musical  preoccupations  inspired  Mallarme  and 
Rolland  with  certain  of  their  most  significant  works.  Willy’s  Lettres 
de  Vouvreuse  will  better  inform  the  readers  of  1950  as  to  our  enthu¬ 
siasms  than  his  novels  as  to  our  immorality.  Certain  compositors  have 
been  excellent  critics,  witness  the  bantering  spirit  of  Camille  Saint- 
Saens,  the  pious  fervour  of  Vincent  d’Indy’s  Cesar  FrancJc,  the  delicious 
Monsieur  Croche  antidilettante  by  Claude  Debussy  whose  Introduction 
very  subtly  evokes  Monsieur  Teste.  Here  too  must  be  mentioned, 
after  Albert  Lavignac’s  and  Paul  Landormy’s  Histoires  de  la  Musique, 
the  special  works  by  Jean  Chantavoine  on  Beethoven  and  Liszt,  by 
J.-G.  Prudhomme  on  Beethoven,  by  Adolphe  Boschot  on  Berlioz,  by 
Camille  Bellaigue  on  Mendelssohn  and  Gounod,  by  Andre  Pirro  on 
Bach.  Pierre  d’Alheim  and  M.  D.-Calvocoressi  have  extolled  Mous- 
sorgski’s  genius.  Pierre  Lalo  has  won  a  reputation  as  a  caustic 
chronicler.  Louis  Laloy  has,  in  his  Rameau  and  in  his  Dehussy, 
proved  that  a  musicograph  can  be  a  noble  and  firm  writer.  Emile 
Vuillermoz’s  chroniques  are  as  solid  as  they  are  brilliant,  witness  the 
volume  Musiques  d’aujourd’hui.  In  Qumze  Musiciens  fran^ais  and 
his  articles  in  the  Revue  musicale  (edited  by  Henry  Prunieres,  spe¬ 
cialist  in  the  seventeenth  century),  Andre  Coeuroy  maintains  a  strict 
unity  in  musical  culture  and  literary  culture. 

Foreign  literatures  have  found  worthy  introducers  in  France.  Be- 


CONCLUSION  373 

ing  unable  to  cite  the  innumerable  theses  devoted  to  European  writers, 
we  shall  content  ourselves  with  recalling  the  articles  by  Melchior  de 
Vogue,  Arvede  Barine,  Alfred  Mezieres,  T.  de  Wyzewa  (who  was  also 
a  Symbolist  critic  and  the  author  of  Nos  M ait  res'),  the  works  of 
Robert  de  la  Sizeranne  and  Jacques  Bardoux  on  Ruskin,  Abel  Che- 
valley’s  book  on  Le  Roman  anglais,  the  works  of  Phileas  Lebesgue 
so  thoroughly  documented,  the  studies  of  comparative  influences 
by  Joseph  Texte  and  Louis  Cazamian.  Ernest  Seilliere’s  Philosophic 
de  VImperialisme  explains  his  desire  to  “de-Rousseau-ize”  France 
by  large  European  perspectives.  Henri  Lichtenberger  has  pre¬ 
sented  in  their  true  light  Wagner’s  ideas  and  those  of  Nietzsche  of 
whom  Charles  Andler  has  undertaken  to  describe  the  genesis,  the 
growth  and  the  success.  Andre  Chevrillon  has  renewed  the  tradition 
of  Taine,  attentively  noting  the  evolution  of  modern  England  in¬ 
carnated  alternately  in  Kipling  and  in  Meredith,  minute  painter 
of  Brittany  and  Morocco,  as  sensitive  to  the  poetry  of  India  as  Emile 
i  Hovelacque  to  the  mysteries  of  the  Far  East ;  and  two  cultures  are  also 
reconciled  by  an  Abel  Lefrance  who  interrupts  his  labors  on  French 
literature  for  an  almost  detective  study  of  Shakespeare  or  by  a  Pierre 
de  Nolhac  who,  as  a  humanist  poet,  evokes,  one  after  the  other, 
Petrarch,  Ronsard  and  Versailles. 

To  criticism  belong  also,  however  unexpected  the  rapprochement 
of  these  names,  Etudes  d’histoire  religieuse  by  Ernest  Havet,  and  the 
Quatrieme  Evangile  by  Alfred  Loisy  who  continue  the  exegesis  of 
Renan;  the  moral  exhortations  of  Pastor  Wagner,  and  the  Principes 
de  la  guerre  in  which  Marshal  Foch  gives  “intellectual  discipline”  as 
the  foundation  for  military  art. 

2.  REVUES,  JOURNALISTS  AND  ORATORS 

The  principal  revues  to  be  consulted  for  the  literary  history  of  the 
last  fifty  years  are:  La  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes,  La  Nouvelle  Revue 
(1879),  La  Revue  wagnerienne  (1885),  Le  Mercure  de  France  (1890), 
L’Ermitage  (1891),  La  Revue  blanche  (1891),  La  Revue  hebdo- 
madaire  (1892),  La  Revue  de  Paris  (1894<),  Le  Centaure  (1896),  Les 
Cahiers  de  la  quinzaine  (1899),  Vers  et  Prose  (1905),  La  Nouvelle 
Revue  franpaise  (1909),  Les  Marges  (1909),  L’Effort  libre  (1910), 
Les  Cahiers  d’aujourd’hui  (1918),  Les  Ecrits  nouveaux  (1916),  La 
Revue  universelle  (1920),  La  Revue  de  France  (1921).  Let  us  cite, 
among  the  Catholic  reviews,  Le  Correspondant,  Les  Etudes,  La  Revue 
les  Jeunes,  Les  Lettres  founded  in  1913  by  Gaetan  Bernoville.  L’Es - 
prit  nouveau.  Action,  Aventure,  and  Intentions  recently  established, 
express  the  tendencies  of  an  advanced  guard  which  it  is  not  permitted 


374  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

to  ignore,  any  more  than  it  is  the  efforts  of  Jean  Hytier  in  Le  Mouton 
Blanc  to  group  the  partisans  of  a  new  classicism.  Le  Monde  nouveau 
Europe  and  La  Revue  Europeenne  are  Franco-European  tribunes. 
Bibliographical  bulletins  like  Vient  de  Paraitre  and  papers  like  Les 
Nouvelles  litter aires  contribute  to  the  diffusion  of  literature  in  France 
and  abroad. 

It  is  difficult  to  speak  of  journalists  in  a  history  of  literature,  so 
much  does  the  timeliness  which  makes  their  success  demand  of  them  in 
the  way  of  sacrifices.  Edouard  Drumont’s  articles  in  La  Libre  Parole 
made  the  same  stir  during  the  Dreyfus  epoch  as  Henri  Rochefort’s  in 
La  Lanterne  towards  the  end  of  the  Second  Empire.  To  present  them¬ 
selves  before  the  tribunal  of  the  future,  Georges  Clemenceau  had  the 
prudence  to  write  his  Grand  Pan,  Sembat  his  ingenious  F aites  la  paix, 
sinon  f aites  un  roi,  R.  de  Jouvenel  his  ironical  Journalisme  en  vingt 
lemons,  Gustave  Tery  his  living  Jaure,  Jean  de  Pierrefeu  his  indiscreet 
G.  Q.  G.,  Secteur  and  Plutarque  a  menti. 

It  is  the  same  with  the  orators  whose  most  applauded  speeches  stand 
ill  the  test  of  reading.  As  models  of  sacred  eloquence,  the  Catholics 
cite  P.  Hyacinthe,  R.  P.  Monsabre,  P.  Didon  and  P.  Janvier ;  the 
Protestants  Eugene  Bersier  and  Wilfred  Monod;  the  Jews  Zadoc  Kahn. 
Waldeck-Rousseau  in  civil  cases,  Henri  Robert  in  criminal  cases  have 
maintained  the  prestige  of  the  bar.  Political  eloquence  has  been  rep¬ 
resented  by  Leon  Gambetta  skilful  in  large  theatrical  effects,  Albert 
de  Mun  whose  dignity  was  respected  by  all,  Jean  Jaures  who,  in  spite  of 
the  extent  of  his  culture,  could  electrify  the  masses.  As  for  the  im¬ 
mortality  of  the  orators  of  to-day,  we  leave  the  subscribers  to  the 
Journal  Officiel  the  pleasure  of  prophesying  with  regard  to  it. 

3.  HISTORY 

Above  the  diverse  schools  of  historians  stand  forth  two  names :  that 
of  Fustel  de  Coulanges,  continuer  of  Tocqueville  and  Taine,  faithful  in 
La  Cite  antique  and  Les  Institutions  de  Vancienne  France  to  that 
“Quaro”  which  implies  the  respect  of  the  texts  and  the  absence  of 
prejudices ;  that  of  Albert  Sorel  who  was  not  only  an  historian  but  a 
story-teller  as  well  and  a  Stendhalian  psychologist,  a  duality  by  which 
L’Europe  et  la  Revolution  frangaise  benefited.  About  these  masters 
will  be  ranged  Maspero  and  his  Histoire  ancienne  des  peuples  de 
VOrient ,*  Ernest  Lavisse,  a  specialist  on  German  questions  and  the 
initiator  of  a  monumental  Histoire  de  France ;  Camille  Julian,  the 
learned  historian  of  Gaul;  A.  Aulard  who  has  renewed  the  study  of 
the  French  devolution  envisaged  from  a  totally  different  angle  by 


CONCLUSION  375 

Louis  Madelin.  Vandal,  historian  of  the  Russian  alliance;  Chuquet 
who  studied  the  youth  of  Napoleon  I  of  whom  Henri  Houssaye  has 
dramatically  celebrated  the  downfall;  Thureau-Dangin  who  devoted 
himself  to  the  July  Monarchy  as  Gabriel  Hanotaux  has  devoted  him¬ 
self  to  the  Third  Republic  and  Pierre  de  la  Gorce  to  the  Second  Em¬ 
pire  ;  finally,  Ernest  Boutmy  whose  researches  were  divided  between 
the  Greek  genius  and  Anglo-Saxon  psychology ;  and  the  chroniques  of 
Jacques  Bainville  and  Auguste  Gauvain  stake  out  history  step  by  step 
as  it  is  made. 

Religious  studies  are  marked  by  the  names  of  Mgr.  Baudrillart, 
Georges  Goyau  and  Abbe  Sertillanges ;  but  the  master  here  is  Abb£ 
Henri  Bremond,  historian  of  Keble,  Pusey  and  Newman,  intelligent 
apologist  of  Fenelon,  author  of  a  Histoire  litteraire  du  Sentiment  re - 
ligieux  often  compared  with  Port-Royal;  and,  beside  this  orthodoxy, 
Edouard  Schure,  studying  Les  grands  inities,  maintains  the  rights  of 
heterodoxy. 

So  much  erudition  does  not  exclude  art.  Gaston  Boissier’s  Ciceron 
et  ses  amis  and  La  Fin  du  paganisme  remain  interesting  even  for  the 
■  ordinary  reader.  Thanks  to  persistent  seekers,  we  know  better  the 
.visage  of  la  doulce  France .”  A.  Luchaire  has  cleared  up  its  institu- 
;  tions  for  us.  Gaston  Paris  has  shed  light  on  the  poems  and  legends  of 
the  Middle  Ages;  and  his  disciple,  Joseph  Bedier,  in  “renewing”  Le 
Roman  de  Tristan  et  Iseut,  worked  creatively  and  realized  the  miracle 
of  a  “modern  Beroul.” 

By  the  side  of  official  history,  the  anecdote  maintains  its  rights.  If 
tFunck-Brentano  was  indiscreet  with  regard  to  the  past,  Jules  Claretie 
and  Jean  de  Bonnefon  have  striven  to  be  so  concerning  the  present. 
If  Frederic  Masson  has  spared  nothing  to  render  Napoleon  ridiculous, 
Robert  Vallery-Radot  has  presented  us  a  noble  Vie  de  Pasteur  and 
Emile  Ollivier’s  pleas  pro  domo  are  engaging  if  not  convincing. 
(The  journals  of  the  Goncourts,  of  Leon  Daudet  and  of  Leon  Bloy  have 
•already  entered  literature.  Anatole  France  and  Andre  Gide  have 
•furnished  autobiographic  fragments  and  the  future  will  find  interesting 
^documents  at  least  in  the  Memoires  of  Mme.  Adam,  the  Souvenirs 
!of  Mme.  Alphonse  Daudet,  the  various  Ce  Que  ...  of  Arthur  Meyer, 

-  the  Confessions  of  Arsene  Houssaye,  the  Chronique  de  nos  jours  of  the 
‘historian  Ernest  Daudet,  the  Lettres  de  jeunesse  of  Ch.-L.  Philippe, 
/the  letters  of  Vincent  Van  Gogh  to  Emile  Bernard  and  those  of  Paul 
‘Gauguin  to  Daniel  de  Monfreid.  Do  we  not  count  among  their  essen¬ 
tial  works  the  Correspondance  of  Flaubert  and  the  Correspondence  of 
(Stendhal,  as  well  as  Baudelaire’s  Lettres  and  Lettres  a  sa  mere ? 


376 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


4.  PHILOSOPHY 

Philosophy  is  not  distinct  from  literature.  This  has  been  seen  by 
the  example  of  Bergson  and  the  stir  made  by  Bergsonian  ideas.  How¬ 
ever  important  Bergsonism  may  be,  its  success  should  not  stifle  the 
theories  of  other  French  thinkers.  The  philosophy  of  the  “idea- 
forces”  will  make  Fouillee’s  name  live  and  Renouvier’s  is  attached 
to  a  criticism  of  Kantism  which  ends  with  the  affirmation  of  liberty. 
Ravaisson’s  historical  works  had  led  him  to  unite  the  French  tradition 
and  Greek  thought  in  an  ideal  of  beauty.  ^Esthetics  have  not  been  neg¬ 
lected,  witness  the  researches  of  Bazaillas  and  G.  Seailles.  Guyau  was 
the  author  of  Problemes  d’esthetique  contemporains  before  writing  that 
Esquisse  d’une  morale  sans  obligation  ni  sanction  which  demands  to  be 
compared  with  Nietzsche  and  states  the  moral  and  religious  problems 
which  have  since  preoccupied  Frederic  Rauh  and  Edouard  Le  Roy. 

The  principal  effort  of  the  contemporary  philosopher  has  however 
been  brought  to  bear  upon  the  study  of  the  relations  between  philosophy 
and  science.  J.  Lachelier’s  thesis  on  Le  Fondement  de  V Introduction 
cleared  the  ground  by  carrying  the  Kantian  idealism  so  far  as  to 
achieve  liberation  from  it.  Liard  has  maintained  the  legitimacy  of  the 
two  domains,  metaphysical  and  scientific,  while  the  sociologists  like 
Durkheim,  the  Positivists  like  Levy-Briihl,  the  psycho-physiologists 
like  Alfred  Binet  and  Th.  Ribot,  abstain  from  speculations  which  are 
not  based  upon  precise  observations.  Mathematics  led  Cournot  to  phi¬ 
losophy  and  the  long  ignored  views  of  this  precursor  have  brought 
about  a  renaissance  of  probabilism.  Upon  a  history  of  mathematical 
philosophy  Leon  Brunschvicg  has  based  a  supple  Spinozist  intellectual- 
ism.  Emile  Boutroux,  in  demonstrating  the  contingency  of  the  laws 
of  nature,  forestalled  Henri  Poincare’s  conclusions. 

For  the  savants  too  have  refused  to  believe  in  the  dogma  of  water¬ 
tight  compartments.  They  have  justified  in  every  sense  Claude  Ber¬ 
nard’s  saying  that  “the  scientific  method  proclaims  the  liberty  of 
mind  and  thought.”  Louis  Pasteur’s  addresses  are  so  many  sum¬ 
maries  of  his  works.  The  chemist  Berthelot  insisted  upon  making  it 
clear,  in  Science  et  Philosophic,  “that  no  reality  can  be  established 
by  reasoning.  The  world  cannot  be  divined.”  This  definition  of  posi¬ 
tive  science  should  not  however  be  interpreted  as  a  negation  of  psycho¬ 
logical  life.  While  Paul  Tannery  made  his  experience  of  modern  sci¬ 
ence  serve  the  explanation  of  Hellenic  science,  Jules  Tannery  was  at 
once  the  author  of  an  Introduction  a  la  theorie  des  fonctions  d’une 
variable,  of  Parnassian  verse  and  of  noble  Pensees.  “It  is  by  Science 
and  Art  alone  that  civilizations  count.”  Such  is  Henri  Poincare’s  pro- 


CONCLUSION  377 

fession  of  faith  at  the  end  of  La  Valeur  de  la  Science,  a  volume  which 
would  suffice  to  prove  that  the  theoretical  speculations  of  our  epoch 
have  not  been  useless  for  humanity :  “Every  action  should  have  an 
aim.  We  should  suffer,  we  should  work,  we  should  pay  for  our  seat  in 
the  theatre,  but  it  is  to  see;  or  at  least  that  others  may  one  day  see.” 
And  the  mathematician  of  genius  whose  influence  is  far  from  being  ex¬ 
hausted  concludes  by  demonstrating  that  “we  can  think  thought  only,” 
that  conscious  thought  between  two  shadowy  infinities  which — “strange 
contradiction  for  those  who  believe  in  time  .  .  . — is  but  a  flash  in  a 
long  night.” 

It  is  this  flash  however  which  is  everything.”  Through  so  many 
and  so  various  works,  creative  or  critical,  contemporary  French 
literature  does  not  cease  to  widen  the  radiation  of  that  spiritual  light 
“which  is  everything.” 


APPENDICES 

APPENDIX  A 


NOTES  ON  THE  ABBAYE 

It  was  on  a  rainy  Sunday  at  the  end  of  autumn  1906  that  Vil- 
drac,  his  wife  and  I  discovered  the  house  which  was  to  become  the 
Abbaye — a  decrepit  house,  uninhabited  for  long  years  but  still  noble 
of  aspect  with  its  terraces,  its  red  brick  fa£ade  and  its  green  shutters. 
It  was  surrounded  by  an  immense  overgrown  park  planted  with  trees  of 
every  sort.  At  the  bottom  of  the  park  was  a  kitchen  garden  with 
numerous  fruit  trees.  (Its  fruits  formed  the  basis  of  our  nutrition  for 
a  whole  summer.)  There  were  lawns,  a  summer-house,  paths  choked 
with  rank  vegetation.  Hundreds  of  birds  haunted  this  domain  so  long 
abandoned.  Fifteen  days  after  our  visit,  the  lease  which  made  us 
masters  of  the  Abbaye  was  signed.  This  melancholy  document,  still 
in  my  hands,  bears  five  signatures :  Rene!  Arcos,  Georges  Duhamel, 
Albert  Gleizes,  Henri  Martin,  Charles  Vildrac.  We  add  to  these  in 
our  heart  that  of  Linard,  the  printer  who  taught  us  our  trade  and 
shared  to  the  end  our  good  and  our  evil  days. 

One  of  our  first  concerns  was  to  nail  on  the  front  door  a  placard 
where  those  who  passed  could  read  these  verses  of  Rabelais’  : 

Cy,  entrez  vous,  et  soyez  bien  venus. 

•  •  •  •  •  • 

Ceans  aurez  un  refuge  et  bastille 

Contre  l’hostile  erreur  qui  tant  postille 

Par  son  faulx  style  empoisonneur  du  monde: 

Entrez,  qu’on  fonde  ici  la  loi  profonde. 

and  below: 

Cy,  n’entrez  pas  bigots, 

Vieux  matagots, 

Marmiteux  borsoufles  .  .  . 

Henri  Martin,  a  young  politician  whose  acquaintance  we  had  re¬ 
cently  made  and  who  had  been  seduced  by  our  projects,  acquired  a 
J  379 


380 


APPENDIX  A 


printing  outfit  and  placed  it  at  our  disposal.  Vildrac,  who  was  married 
and  father  of  a  family,  arrived  with  his  household.  Each  put  into  the 
salon,  a  room  common  to  all,  his  most  precious  pieces  of  furniture. 

Then  we  learned  our  printer’s  trade,  rapidly  enough  to  astonish 
Linard.  The  first  two  volumes  which  bore  our  imprint  were  Des 
Legendes,  des  Bat  allies  (Georges  Duhamel),  La  Tragedie  des  Espaces 
(Rene  Arcos).  Twenty  volumes  appeared  from  the  Abbaye  press. 
Robert  de  Montesquiou,  as  an  evidence  of  his  sympathy,  entrusted  us 
with  the  printing  of  a  book  of  verse:  Passiflora.  He  showed  himself 
very  exacting,  made  us  begin  the  work  over  again  several  times  and 
finally  this  good  affair  became  one  of  the  worst  we  had. 

Many  young  artists  were  the  guests  of  the  Abbaye.  Sunday  often 
saw  them  arrive  in  a  throng.  Our  house  had  become  a  place  to  go  to. 
Singular  persons  also  visited  us.  There  were  men  in  red  shirts  and 
black  (already!),  vegetarians,  Fourrierists,  all  sorts  of  ists,  very  ugly 
and  very  talkative  women  who  summoned  us  to  live  according  to  the 
doctrine.  What  doctrine?  We  never  knew  exactly.  A  visionary 
wanted  to  decide  us  to  construct  little  wooden  barracks  in  our  park, 
doubtless  to  rear  in  them  a  generation  of  disciples.  One  morning,  a 
cyclist  with  powerful  calves  and  sky-colored  eyes,  Jules  Romains,  who 
was  then  at  the  Ecole  Normale,  brought  us  the  manuscript  of  La  Vie 
unanime.  We  read  it  aloud  that  very  evening.  What  enthusiasm! 
To  tell  the  truth,  the  form,  the  prosiness  of  the  work  made  certain 
among  us  wince  at  times,  but  we  all  felt  that  a  powerfully  original 
and  rarely  precocious  poet  had  been  born. 

Spring  brought  new  tenants  to  the  Abbaye.  They  were  Mercereau 
and  his  wife  (they  arrived  from  Moscow  where  they  had  just  married). 
Berthold  Mahn,  d’Otemar,  Albert  Doyen  and  his  wife,  some  other 
friends.  Musicians  came  to  play  their  music,  painters  exhibited  their 
canvases,  poets  were  interpreted  by  actors  and  actresses.  One  of 
these,  Blanche  Albane,  was  eventually  to  become  Duhamel’s  wife.  The 
adventure  lasted  fourteen  months.  After  a  second  and  terrible  winter, 
we  were  obliged  to  separate  and  abandon  the  Abbaye  where  we  could 
no  longer  live.  Our  failure  should  above  all  be  imputed  to  our  youth. 
We  lacked  discipline  and  gave  little  heed  to  anything  but  our  fancy. 
And  then  we  pursued  different  ends — ends  which  we  did  not  all  of  us 
succeed  in  stating  precisely. 

Two  words  more:  the  Abbaye  was  never  a  poetic  school.  It  was, 
simply,  an  association  of  men  aspiring  to  live  freely  and  in  common 
by  their  toil.  If  we  then  manifested  sympathy  for  all  the  poets  and 
writers  who  seemed  to  us  to  have  talent,  it  was  in  no  secret  design  to 
enroll  them  all  under  one  banner.  We  had  no  common  doctrine.  It 


APPENDIX  A 


381 


often  happened  that  we  made  fun  of  each  other.  And  I  shall  go  so 
far  as  to  say,  with  Yildrac  or  Duhamel,  that  certain  of  our  companions 
seemed  to  us  to  speak  and  to  write  a  language  foreign  to  our  own. 
The  critics  have  pointed  out  multiple  affinities  between  Yildrac, 
Romains,  Duhamel  and  myself.  None  of  us  will  dream  of  denying 
them.  They  have  even  certainly  extended  to  other  poets:  Jouve, 
Chenneviere,  Durtain,  etc. ;  but  there  was  never  a  school.  We  all  had 
too  great  a  horror  of  caporalisme. 


Rene  Arcos. 


APPENDIX  B 


GENERAL  WORKS  TO  BE  CONSULTED 

CRITICISM 

Gustave  Lanson,  Histoire  de  la  Litterature  franpaise  (17th  edition, 
1922,  Hachette). 

Bedier  and  Hazard,  Histoire  de  la  Litterature  franpaise  illustree 
(1923,  Larousse). 

Ch.  Le  Goffiic,  La  Litterature  franqaise  aux  XIX  '  et  XX  ’  siecles 
(1922,  Larousse). 

G.  Casella  and  E.  Gaubert,  La  Nouvelle  Litterature,  1895-1905 
(1906,  Sansot). 

G.  Le  Cardonnel  and  Ch.  Vellay,  La  Litterature  contemporaine 
(1905,  Mercure). 

Florian-Parmentier,  Histoire  contemporaine  des  Lettres  franpaises 
(1914,  Figuiere). 

Ernst-Robert  Curtius,  Die  literarischen  Wegbereiter  des  neuen 
Fra/nkreich  (3rd  edition,  1923,  Kiepenheuer) . 

Maurice  Gauchez,  Histoire  des  Lettres  franpaises  de  Belgique 
(1922,  Renaissance  d’Occident). 

Eugene  Montfort,  Vingt-cinq  annees  de  vie  lit  ter  air  e  (in  course  of 
publication,  Librairie  de  France). 

TECHNIQUE 

Maurice  Grammont,  Le  Vers  franqais  (Champion,  1912). 

Hugo  P.  Thieme,  Essai  sur  Vhistoire  du  vers  franpais  (Champion, 
1916). 

Jean  Hytier,  Les  Techniques  modernes  du  vers  franpais  (Presses 
universitaires,  1923). 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

G.  Lanson,  Manuel  bibliographique  (Hachette). 

Hugo  P.  Thieme,  La  Litterature  franqaise  au  XIX  6  siecle  (1908). 

ANTHOLOGIES 

Van  Bever  and  Leautaud,  PoHes  d’aitjourd’hui  (Mercure). 

R.  de  La  Vaissiere,  Anthologie  poetique  du  XX  ”  sidcle  (Cres). 

G.  Walch,  Anthologie  des  poetes  franpais  contemporains  (Delagrave). 

G.  Pellissier,  Anthologie  des  prosateurs  contemporains  (Delagrave). 

382 


APPENDIX  C 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST 


Note:  This  list  contains  only  the  works  entirely  characteristic  of  the 
most  representative  authors  during  the  period  1871-1923  and  of  their  pre¬ 
cursors.  It  constitutes,  then,  a  minimum,  equally  indispensable  to  the 
student  and  to  the  reader,  permitting  each  to  direct  his  complimentary  read¬ 
ings  according  to  the  object  of  his  researches  or  the  preference  which  this 
first  contact  will  have  revealed  to  him. 

Save  in  a  few  exceptional  cases  the  date  is  that  of  the  first  complete 
published  edition.  The  publisher’s  name  indicates  the  current  edition  in 
1923. 


Adam  (Paul).  1862-1920. 

La  Force  (1899). 

Irene  et  les  Eunuques  (1907). 

Le  Trust  (1910). 

Alain.  [Pseud,  of  Chartier.] 

Les  Propos  d’ Alain  (1906). 

Alibert  (Fran§ois-Paul).  Born  1873. 

Le  Buisson  ardent  (1913). 

Angellier  (Auguste).  1848-1911. 

A  VAmie  perdue  (1896). 

Apollinaire  (Guillaume).  1880-1918.  [Pseud,  of 
G.  de  Kostrowisky.] 

L’Enchanteur  pourrissant  (1909). 

Alcools  (1913). 


Flammarion. 

Nouvelle  Revue  Fran§aise. 
Occident. 
Hachette. 

Nouvelle  Revue  Fran^aise 


Arcos  (Rene).  Born  1881. 

Le  Bien  commun  (1919). 

Au  Sablier. 

A.udoux  (Marguerite). 

Marie-Claire  (1910). 

Fasquelle. 

Barbey  d’Aurevilly  (Jules).  1808-1889. 

Une  Vieille  Maitresse  (1851). 

Lemerre. 

Le  Chevalier  Destouches  (1864). 

— 

Les  Diaboliques  (1874). 

Cres. 

L’Esprit  de  Barbey  d’Aurevilly. 

Mercure. 

Barbusse  (Henri).  Born  1874. 

Le  Feu  (1916). 

Flammarion. 

Barres  (Maurice).  1862-1923,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Le  Jardin  de  Berenice  (1891). 

Plon. 

383’ 

384 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH 


LITERATURE 

(1895). 


Du  Sang,  de  la  Volupte  et  de  la  Mort 
Les  Der acmes  (1897). 

Amori  et  dolori  sacrum  (1903). 

La  Colline  inspiree  (1913). 

Un  Jardin  sur  VOronte  (1922). 

Bataille  (Henry)  1872-1922. 

Poliche  (1906). 

Le  Phalene  (1913). 

Baudelaire  (Charles).  1821—1867. 

Les  Fleurs  du  mal  (1857). 

L’Art  Romantique  (1868). 

Petits  Poemes  en  prose  (1869). 

Lettres  a  sa  mere  (1918). 

Becque  (Henry).  1837-1899. 

Les  Corbeaux  (1882). 

La  Parisienne  (1885). 

Benda  (Julien).  Born  1867- 
L’Ordination  (1912). 

Le  Bergsonisme  (1912). 

Bergson  (Henri).  Born  1859,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

L’Evolution  creatrice  (1908). 

Bernard  (Tristan).  Born  1866. 

L’ Anglais  tel  qu’on  le  parle  (1899). 
Triple-Patte  (1906). 

Le  Petit  Cafe  (1912). 

Bernstein  (Henry).  Born  1876. 

Samson  (1907). 

Bertrand  (Louis).  Born  1866. 

Pepete  et  Balthasar  (1904). 

Le  Mirage  oriental  (1909). 

Saint- Augustin  (1913). 

Bloch  (Jean-Richard).  Born  1884. 

Levy  (1912). 

Carnaval  est  mort  (1920). 

Bloy  (Leon).  1846—1917. 

Le  Desespere  (1886). 

Le  Salut  par  les  Juifs  (1892). 

La  Femme  pauvre  (1897). 

Mon  Journal  (1904). 

Bordeaux  (Henri).  Born  1870,  of  the 
Academy. 

Les  Roquevillard  (1906). 

Bouhelier  (SPGeorges  de).  Born  1876. 

Le  Carnaval  des  enfants  (1910). 


Emile  Paul. 

Plon. 

Fasquelle. 

Cres. 

Cres. 

Calmann. 

Conard. 

Fasquelle. 


Emile  Paul. 
Mercure. 


Alcan. 

Calmann. 

Librairie  theatrale. 

Fasquelle. 

Ollendorff. 

Perrin. 

Fayard. 

Nouvelle  Revue  Fran^aise. 


Mercure. 

Cres. 

Mercure. 


F  rench 


Plon. 

Fasquelle. 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST 

Bourges  (filemir).  Born  1852,  of  the  Goncourt 
Academy. 

Le  Crepuscule  des  Dieux  (1884). 

Les  Oiseaux  s’envolent  (1893). 

La  Nef  (1922). 

Bourget  (Paul).  Born  1852,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Essais  de  psychologie  contemporaine  (1883). 

Le  Disciple  (1899). 

L’Etape  (1902). 

Le  Demon  de  midi  (1914). 

Boylesve  (Rene).  Born  1867,  of  the  French 
Academy  [Pseud,  of  R.  Tardiveau.] 

Mademoiselle  Cloque  (1899). 

La  Leg  on  d’ amour  dans  un  pare  (1902). 
Caillavet  (G.-A.  de).  1869-1915. 

Voir  de  Flers. 

Carco  (Francis).  Born  1886. 

L’Homme  traque  (1922). 

Rien  qu’une  femme  (1923). 

Cendrars  (Blaise). 

Du  Monde  entier  (1919). 

Chardonne  (Jacques).  Born  1884 
Boutelleau.] 

L’Epithalame  (1921). 

Chenneviere  (Georges)  born  1885 
G.  Debile.] 

Le  Chant  du  Verger  (1923). 

Claudel  (Paul).  Born  1868. 

Connaissance  de  VEst  (1900). 

Le  Repos  du  septieme  jour  (1901) 

Cinq  Grandes  Odes  (1910). 

L’Annonce  faite  a,  Marie  (1911). 

L’Otage  (1911). 

Deux  Poemes  d’ete  (1914). 

Clermont  (iLmile).  1880-1916. 

Amour  promis  (1909). 

Laure  (1913). 

Cocteau  (Jean).  Born  1891. 

Le  Coq  et  VArlequin  (1918). 

Colette  (Colette  Willy). 

[Mme  Henri  de  Jouvenel.] 

Sept  Dialogues  de  betes  (1904). 

La  Retraite  sentimentale  (1907). 

La  V agabonde  (1910). 


385 


Stock. 

Plon. 


Plon. 


Calmann. 


Albin  Michel. 


Nouvelle  Revue  Fran^aise. 
[Pseud,  of 


[Pseud,  of 


Stock. 


Au  Mouton  Blanc. 

Mercure. 

Mercure. 

Nouvelle  Revue  Fran§aise 


Calmann. 

Grasset. 

La  Sirene. 


Mercure. 


Ollendorff. 


386 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


Coppee  (Fran£ois).  1842-1908,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Les  Humbles  (1872). 

Corbiere  {Tristan),.  1845-1875. 

[Edouard- Joachim,  dit  Tristan.] 

Les  Amours  jaunes  (1873). 

Courteline  (Georges).  Born  1861.  [Pseud,  of  G. 
Moinaux.] 

Boubouroche  (1893). 

Le  Gendarme  est  sans  pitie  (1899). 

La  Paix  chez  soi  (1903). 

Crommelynck  (Fernand).  Born  in  1888. 

Le  Cocu  magnifique  (1920). 

Curel  (Francis  de).  Born  1854,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Les  Fossiles  (1892). 

La  Nouvelle  Idole  (1895). 

La  Danse  devant  le  miroir  (1914). 

Daudet  (Alphonse).  1840-1897,  of  the  Goncourt 
Academy. 

Tartarin  de  Tarascon  (1872). 

L’Evangeliste  (1883). 

Sapho  (1884). 

Daudet  (Leon).  Born  1868,  of  the  Goncourt 
Academy. 

Les  Primaires  (1906). 

L’Heredo  (1907).  Nouvelle 

Delarue-Madrus.  (Lucie).  Born  1880. 

Occident  (1900). 

L’Ex-Voto  (1922). 

Descaves  (Lucien).  Born  1861,  of  the  Goncourt 
Academy. 

Philemon,  vieux  de  la  vieille  (1913). 

(See  Donnay). 

Dierx  (Leon).  1838-1912. 

Les  Levres  closes  (1867). 

Donnay  (Maurice).  Born  1860,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Amants  (1895). 

In  collaboration  with  Descaves:  Oiseaux  de 
passage  (1904). 

Dorgedes  (Roland).  Born  1886. 

Les  Croix  de  bois  (1919). 

Duhameu  (Georges).  Born  1884. 

Vie  de$  martyrs  (1917). 

Civilisation  (1918), 


Lemerre. 

Messein. 

Flammarion. 

La  Sirene. 

Cres. 

Fasquelle. 

Fasquelle. 
Librairie  nationale. 

Fasquelle. 

Ollendorff. 

Lemerre. 

F  asquelle. 

Cres. 

Albin  Michel. 


Mercure. 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST  387 


Confession  de  minuit  (1920). 

Deux  Hommes  (1924). 

Dumas  (fils,  Alexandre).  1824-1895,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Une  Visite  de  noces  (1871). 

Francillon  (1887). 

Luc  Durtain.  Born  1881.  [Pseud,  of  A.  Niepveu.] 
Douze  cent  mille  (1922).  Nouvelle 

Estaunie  (Edouard).  Born  1862,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Les  Choses  voient  (1913). 

L’ Appel  de  la  route  (1922). 

Fabre  (Ferdinand).  1830-1898. 

L’Abbe  Tigrane  (1873). 

Fagus,  born  1872.  [Pseud,  of  Georges  Faillet.] 

Fere  tranquille  (1922). 

Fargue  (Leon-Paul).  Born  1878. 

Poemes  (1912).  Nouvelle 

Farrere  (Claude).  Born  1876.  [Pseud,  of  Charles 
Bargone.] 

Fumees  d’ opium  (1904). 

L’Homme  qui  assassina  (1907). 

La  Bataille  (1909). 

Faure  (Elie). 

La  Roue  (1919). 

La  Danse  sur  le  feu  et  I’eau  (1920). 

Flaubert  (Gustave).  1821-1880. 

Works. 

Fleg  (Edmond).  Born  1874. 

Ecoute,  Israel!  (Since  1913). 

Flers  (Robert  de).  Born  1872,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

In  collaboration  with  Caillavet  and  Arene: 


Calmann. 

Revue  Fran£aise. 

Perrin. 

Lemerre. 

Malfere. 

Revue  Fran£aise. 

Ollendorff. 

Cres. 

Conard. 

Cres. 


Le  Roi  (1908). 

Fort  (Paul).  Born  1872. 

Anthologie  des  ballades  frangaises  (1897- 
1920). 

Louis  XI,  curieux  homme  (1921). 

La  Ronde  autour  du  monde  (1922). 

Fournier  (Alain).  1886-1914. 

Le  Grand  Meaulnes  (1912). 

France  (Anatole).  Born  1844.  [Pseud,  of  A. 
Thibault],  of  the  French  Academy. 

Le  Crime  de  Sylvestre  Bonnard  (1881). 

Thais  (1890). 

Les  Opinions  de  Jerome  Coignard  (1894). 


Fasquelle. 

Mercure. 

Flammarion. 

Emile  Paul. 

Calmann. 


388 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


Histone  Contemporaine  (1897—1901). 
Les  Dieux  ont  soif  (1912). 

Franck  (Henri).  1889-1912. 

La  Danse  devant  I’arche  (1912). 
Frapie  (Leon).  Born  1863. 

La  Maternelle. 

Gide  (Andre).  Born  1869. 

Les  Nourritures  terrestres  (1897). 
Saul  (1902). 

Pretextes  (1903). 


Nouvelle  Revue  Frangaise. 


Flammarion. 


Nouvelle  Revue  Fran§aise. 


Mercure. 


Le  Retour  de  V enfant  prodigue  (1907).  Nouvelle  Revue  Frangaise. 


Mercure. 

Nouvelle  Revue  Fran§aise. 


La  Porte  etroite  (1909). 

Les  Caves  du  Vatican  (1913). 

Gilbert  de  Voisins.  Born  1877. 

Le  Bar  de  la  Fourche  (1909). 

La  Conscience  dans  le  mal  (1921). 

Giraudoux  (Jean).  Born  1882. 

Simon  le  Pathetique  (1918). 

Suzanne  et  le  Pacifque  (1921). 

Siegfried  et  le  Limousin  (1922). 

Gobineau  (Arthur  de).  1816-1882. 

Essai  sur  Vinegalite  des  races  humaines 
(1853-55). 

Les  Pleiades  (1874). 

Nouvelles  Asiatiques  (1876). 

La  Renaissance  (1877). 

Goncourt  (de)  (Edmond,  1882-1896,  et  Jules  1830- 

1870). 

Manette  Salomon  (1867). 

Journal  (1887-96). 

Gourmont  (Remy  de).  1858-1915. 

Les  Chevaux  de  Diomede  (1897). 

Le  Chemin  de  velours  (1902).  — 

Physique  de  Vamour  (1903).  — 

Lettres  a  Vamazone  (1914).  — 

Lettres  a  Sixtine  (1921).  — 

Hamp  (Pierre).  Born  1876.  [Pseud,  of  Bourillon.] 

Le  Rail  (1912).  Nouvelle  Revue  Frangaise 

L’Enquete  (1913).  - — 

Les  Metiers  blesses  (1919).  — 

Henriot  (Emile).  Born  1889. 

Le  Diable  a  Vhotel  (1919).  E.  Paul. 

Heredia  (Jose-JVlaria  de).  1839-1907,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Les  Trophees  (1893).  Lemerre. 


Cres. 


Grasset. 
E.  Paul. 
Grasset. 


Didot. 

Au  Sans  Pareil. 
Plon. 


Fasquelle. 


Mercure. 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST  389 

Hermant  (Abel).  Born  1862. 

Les  Trans atlantiques  (1897).  Flammarion. 

Monsieur  de  Coupriere  (1907).  — . 

Hervieu  (Paul).  1857-1915,  of  the  French  Academy. 

L’ Armature  (1895).  Lemerre. 

La  Course  du  flambeau  (1901).  — 

Houville  (Gerard  d’).  Born  1875. 

[Mme  Henri  de  Regnier.] 

Poemes.  Mercure. 

Le  Temps  d’ aimer  (1908).  Calmann. 

Hugo  (Victor).  1802-1885,  of  the  French  Academy. 

Works.  Ollendorff. 

Huysmans  (Joris-Karl).  1848—1907,  of  the  Goncourt 
Academy. 

A  Rebours  (1884).  Fasquelle. 

La  Cathedrale  (1898).  Plon. 

Jacob  (Max). 

Le  Laboratoire  central  (1921).  Au  Sans  Pareil. 

Jaloux  (Edmond).  Born  1878. 

Fumees  dans  la  campagne  (1918).  Renaissance  du  livre. 

Jammes  (Francis).  Born  1868. 

De  VAnqelus  de  Vaube  a  VAnqelus  du  soir 
(1898). 

Le  Roman  du  Lievre  (1903). 

Jarry  (Alfred).  1878-1907. 

Ubu-Roi  (1896). 

Jaures  (Jean).  1859-1914. 

L’Armee  nouvelle  (1910). 

Jean  (Lucien).  1870-1908.  [Pseud,  of  L.  Dieu- 
donne.] 

Parmi  les  hommes  (1910). 

Jouve  (P.-J.).  Born  1887. 

Tragiques  (1923). 

Kahn  (Gustave).  Born  1859. 

Premiers  Poemes  (1887—97). 

Klingsor  (Tristan).  Born  1874.  [Pseud,  of  Tristan 
Leclere] . 


Mercure. 

Fasquelle. 

L’Emancipatrice. 

Mercure. 

Stock. 

Mercure. 


Humoresques  (1921). 

Laforgue  (Jules).  1860-1887. 
Poesies  (1886). 

Maralites  legendaires  (1887). 
Larbaud  (Valery).  Born  1880. 

A.  0.  Barnabooth  (1913). 
Enfantines  (1918). 

Amants,  heureux  amants  (1921). 


Malfere. 


Mercure. 


Nouvelle  Revue  Fra^aise. 


390  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Lautreamont  (Comte  de).  [Pseud,  of  Isidore 
Ducasse.] 


Les  Chants  de  Maldoror  (1869). 

La  Sirene. 

Leconte  de  Lisle  (Charles).  1 820-1 894, 

of  the 

French  Academy. 

Works. 

Lemerre. 

Lemaitre  (Jules).  1853-1914,  of  the 

French 

Academy. 

Les  Contemporains  (1886-96). 

Boivin. 

Impressions  de  theatre  (1888). 

— 

En  Marge  des  vieux  livres  (1905). 

— ■ 

Lemonnier  (Camille).  1845-1913. 

Un  Male  (1881). 

Ollendorff. 

Leneru  (Marie).  1875—1918. 

Les  Affranchis  (1910). 

Hachette. 

Journal  (1922). 

Cres, 

Lenormand  (Rene).  Born  1882. 

Les  Rates  (1919). 

Cres. 

Levet  (Henry-J.-M.).  1874-1906. 

Poemes  (1921). 

A.  Monnier. 

Loti  (Pierre).  Born  1850.  [Pseud,  of 

Julien 

Viaud],  of  the  French  Academy. 

Le  Mariage  de  Loti  (1880). 

Calmann. 

Pecheur  d’Islande  (1886). 

— 

La  Mort  de  Philae  (1908). 

— 

Un  Pelerin  d’ Angkor  (1912). 

— 

Louys  (Pierre).  Born  1870. 

Les  Chansons  de  Bilitis  (1894). 

Fas  quelle. 

Aphrodite  (1896). 

— 

Les  Adventures  du  roi  Pausole  (1901). 

— • 

Mac  Orlan  (Pierre).  Born  1883.  [Pseud,  of  P. 

Dumarchais.l 

Le  Chant  de  I’Equipage  (1920). 

Cres. 

Malice  (1922). 

— 

La  Venus  Internationale  (1923). 

Nouvelle 

Revue  Fran^aise 

Maeterlinck  (Maurice).  Born  1862. 

Theatre  (1889—96). 

Lacomblez. 

Le  Tresor  des  humbles  (1896). 

Mercure. 

La  Sagesse  et  la  Destinee  (1898). 

Fas  quelle. 

L’Oiseau  bleu  (1909). 

• — 

Maindron  (Maurice).  1857-1919. 

Saint-Cendre  (1899). 

Fasquelle. 

Mallarme  ^Stephane).  1842-1898. 

Poesies  (1887-99). 

N  ouvelle 

Revue  Fran^aise 

La  Musique  et  les  Lettres  (1895). 

Perrin. 

de  Boccard. 

Nouvelle  Librairie  nationale. 

de  Boccard. 

Calmann. 

Cres. 


of  the  Goncourt 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST  391 

Le  Coup  de  des  (1897).  — 

Maupassant  (Guy  de).  1850-1893. 

Boule  de  Suif  (1880).  Ollendorff. 

Une  Vie  (1888).  — 

Notre  Cceur  (1890).  — 

Mauriac  (Francois).  — 

Le  Baiser  au  lepreux  (1922).  Grasset. 

Maurras  (Charles).  Born  1868.  — 

Le  Chemin  de  Paradis  (1895). 

L’Avenir  de  V intelligence  (1905) 

Athenes  antique  (1918). 

Mille  (Pierre).  Born  1864. 

Barnavaux  (1908). 

Le  Bol  de  Chine  (1920). 

Miomandre  (Francis  de).  Born  1880 
Ecrit  sur  de  Veau  (1908). 

Mirbeau  (Octave).  1848-1917, 

Academy. 

Le  Jardin  des  supplices  (1899). 

Les  Affaires  sont  les  affaires  (1903) 

Dingo  (1913). 

Montherlant  (Henry  de).  Born  1896. 

Le  Songe  (1922). 

Morand  (Paul).  Born  1888. 

Ouvert  la  nuit  (1922).  Nouvelle  Revue  Frangaise. 

Moreas  (Jean).  1856-1910.  [Pseud,  of  Papadia- 
mantopoulos.] 

Les  Stances  (1899-1901).  Mercure. 

Muller  (Charles).  1877-1915.  Voir  Paul  Reboux. 

Noailles  (Anna  de).  Born  1876. 

Le  Cceur  innomhrable  (1901). 

Le  Visage  emerveille  (1904). 

Les  Eblouissements  (1907). 

Les  Forces  eternelles  (1920). 

Paulhan  (Jean).  Born  1884. 

Le  Guerrier  applique  (1919). 

Le  Pont  traverse  (1921). 

Peguy  (Charles).  1873—1914. 

Notre  Jeunesse  (1910). 

La  Tapisserie  de  Notre-Dame  (1913). 

Note  sur  M.  Bergson  (1914). 

Pergaud  (Louis).  1882—1915. 

De  Goupil  a  Margot  (1910). 

Philippe  (Charles-Louis).  1874— 190J), 

Bubu  de  Montparnasse  (1900).  Fasquelle, 

Marie  JAonadieu  (1904).  ' 


E.  Paul. 


Fasquelle. 


Grasset. 


Calmann. 


Fayard. 

Sansot. 

Camille  Bloch. 


Nouvelle  Revue  Franchise. 


Mercure. 


392 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 


Nouvelle  Revue  Fran§aise. 
Fasquelle. 


of  the  French 


Ollendorff. 


Lemerre. 


Croquignole  (1906). 

Charles  Blanchard  (1913). 

Ponchon  (Raoul).  Born  1848. 

La  Muse  au  cabaret  (1921). 

Porto-Riche  (Georges  de)  of  the  French  Academy. 

Born  1849. 

Le  Vieil  Homme  (1911). 

Prevost  (Marcel).  Born  1862, 

Academy. 

Les  Demi-Vierges  (1894). 

Lettres  a  Frangoise  (1902).  — 

Proust  (Marcel).  Born  1873. 

A  la  Recherche  du  temps  perdu.  (Since 

1913).  Nouvelle  Revue  Fran5aise. 

Psichar^  (Ernest).  1883-1914. 

L’Appel  des  armes  (1913). 

Le  Voyage  du  centurion  (1915). 

Rachilde.  Born  1862.  [Mme  Alfred  Vallette.] 

La  Tour  d’ amour  (1899). 

Reboux  (Paul).  Born  1877.  In  collaboration  with 
Ch.  Muller: 

A  la  maniere  de  .  .  .  (1913). 

Regnier,  (Henri  de).  Born  1864,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Les  Medailles  d’argile  (1900). 

La  Cite  des  eaux  (1902). 

Le  Bon  Plaisir  (1902). 

Vestigia  flammce  (1921). 

Renan  (Ernest).  1823-1892, 

Academy. 

Works. 

Renard  (Jules).  1864-1910. 

Poil  de  Carotte  (1894). 

Histoires  naturelles  (1896-1904). 

Rictus  (Jehan).  Born  1867.  [Pseud,  de  Gabriel 
Randon.] 

Les  Soliloques  du  pauvre  (1897). 

Rimbaud  (Jean-Arthur).  1854-1891. 

Complete  works. 

Rod  (Edouard).  1857-1910. 

Michel  Teyssier  (1892). 

Rodenbach  (Georges).  1855-1898. 

Le  Regne  du  silence  (1891). 

Bruges  la  Morte  (1892). 

Rolland  (Romain).  Born  1868. 


Conard. 


Mercure. 


Grasset. 


Mercure. 


of  the  French 


Calmann. 


Flammarion. 


Rey. 

Mercure. 

Flammarion. 

Fasquelle. 

Flammarion. 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST 

Vie  de  Beethoven  (1903). 

Jean-Christophe  (1904-12). 

Romains  (Jules).  Born  1885.  [Pseud,  of  Louis 
F  arigoule.  ] 

La  Vie  unanime  (1908). 

Mort  de  quelqu’un  1911). 

Odes  et  Prieres  (1913). 

Les  Copains  (1913).  Nouvelle 

Europe  (1919). 

Cromedeyre  le  Vieil  (1920). 

Rosny,  (Justin  born  1859  and  Henry  born  1856). 
[Pseud,  of  J.  and  H.  Boex.],  of  the  Goncourt 
Academy. 

Le  Bilateral  (1887). 

La  Guerre  du  feu  (1911). 

Rostand  (Edmond).  1868-1920,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Les  Romanesques  (1894). 

Cyrano  de  Bergerac  (1898). 

Ryner  (Han).  Born  1862. 

Les  Par  abodes  cyniques  (1913). 
Saintleger-Leger.  Born  1890. 

Eloges  (1913). 

Salmon  (Andre).  Born  1881. 

Tendres  Canailles  (1913). 

Pr'ikaz  (1919). 

Samain  (Albert).  1858-1900. 

Au  Jardin  de  Vinfante  (1893). 

Le  Chariot  d’or  (1901). 

Contes  (1902). 

Schlumberger  (Jean).  Born  1877. 

L’Inquiete  Paternite  (1912). 

Schneider  (Edouard).  Born  1880. 

L’lmmaculie  (1916). 

Le  Dieu  d’argile  (1921). 

Schwob  (Marcel).  1867— 1905. 

Le  Roi  au  masque  d’or  (1893). 

Spicilege  (1896). 

La  Lampe  de  Psyche  (1903.) 

Segalen  (Victor).  1878-1919. 

Steles  (1914). 

Rene  Leys  (1922). 

Severine.  Born  1855. 

Line  (1922). 

Sorel  (Georges).  1847-1922. 


393 


Hachette. 

Ollendorff. 


Mercure. 

Figuiere. 

Revue  Frangaise. 


N  ouvelle 


N  ouvelle 


Fasquelle. 

Fasquelle. 

Figuiere. 

Revue  Framjaise. 
Revue  Fran^aise. 

Mercure. 


Nouvelle  Revue  Fran^aise. 
Albin  Michel. 


Cres. 

Mercure. 


Cres. 


Cres. 


394  CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE 

Reflexions  sur  la  violence  (1908).  Riviere. 

Souchon  (Paul).  Born  1874. 

Les  Chants  du  Stade  (1923).  An  Monde  Nouveau 

Spire  (Andre).  Born  1868. 

Versets  (1908).  Mercure. 

Stendhal  (de) :  1783-1842.  [Pseud,  of  Henri 

Beyle.] 

Complete  works  (in  course  of  publication).  Champion. 

Suares  (Andre).  [Pseud,  of  Yves  Scantrel.] 

Sur  la  vie  (1912).  E.  Paul. 

Cressida  (1913).  — 

Trois  Hommes  (1913).  Nouvelle  Revue  Fran£aise. 

Voyage  du  condottiere  (1914).  — 

Sully-Prudhomme  (A).  1839-1908,  of  the  French 

Academy. 

Les  Solitudes  (1869).  Lemerre. 

Le  Bonheur  (1888).  — 


Taine  (Hippolyte).  1828-1893,  of  the  French 
Academy. 

Works. 

Hachette. 

Tharaud  (J.-J.).  [Jerome  born  1874,  Jean  born 
1877-] 

Dingley,  Villustre  ecrivain  (1902). 

E.  Paul. 

La  Maitresse  servante  (1910). 

Plon. 

Un  Royaume  de  Dieu  (1920). 

— 

Toulet  (Paul-Jean).  1867-1920. 

M.  du  Paur,  homme  public  (1898). 

E.  Paul. 

Les  Contre-Rimes  (1921). 

— 

Valery  (Paul).  Born  1872. 

La  Soiree  avec  M.  Teste  (1896).  Nouvelle  Revue  Franc, 

Introduction  a  la  methode  de  Leonard  de  Vinci 
(1920). 

Eupalinos  and  I’Ame  et  la  Danse  (1923). 

— 

Poesies  (1923). 

— 

Valles  (Jules).  1833-1885. 

L’Enfant  (1884). 

Fasquelle. 

Varlet  (Theo).  Born  1878. 

La  Bella  Venere  (1921). 

Malfere. 

Aux  Libres  Jar  dins  (1922). 

— 

Verhaeren  (Emile).  1855-1916. 

Toute  la  Flandre  (1904—1911). 

Mercure. 

La  Multiple  Splendeur  (1906). 

— 

Choix  de  poemes. 

• — ■ 

Verlaine  (Paul).  1844-1896. 

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LIST 

Fetes  galantes  (1869). 

Romances  sans  paroles  (1874). 

Sagesse  (1881). 

Amour  (1888). 

Choix  de  poesies. 

Viele-Griffin  (Francis).  Born  1864. 

La  Leqende  ailee  de  Wieland  le  Forqeron 
(1900). 

Vildrac  (Charles).  Born  1879.  [Pseud,  of  Ch. 
Messager.] 

Chants  du  desespere  (1921).  Nouvelle 

Villiers  de  l’Isle-Adam  (Auguste).  1838-1889. 

Contes  cruels  (1883). 

L’Eve  future  (1886) 

Axel  (1890). 

Zola  (Emile).  1840-1902. 

L’Assommoir  (1877). 

Germinal  (1885). 

L’CEuvre  (1886). 


395 

Messein. 

Fasquelle. 

Mercure. 

Revue  Fran9aise. 

Mercure. 

Fasquelle. 

Cres. 

Fasquelle. 


INDEX 


Ackermann  (Mme.),  26 
Adam  (P.),  94,  313,  314 
Ades,  302 
Aicard,  26 
A j  albert,  298,  372 
Albalat,  157 
Alexis,  34 
Alheim  (d’),  372 
Alibert,  221 
Allard,  214 
Amiel,  53 
Ancey,  51 
Andler,  373 
Angellier,  146 
Annunzio  (d’),  286 
Apollinaire,  227-230,  240 
Aragon,  110 
Arcos,  244,  251 
Arfene  (E.),  283 
Arene  (P.),  27,  322 
Arnauld,  200 
Arnoux,  309 
Artus,  275 
Audoux,  332 

Augier,  49,  50,  51,  88,  276 
Aulard,  181,  374 
Aurel,  332 

Bachelin,  323 
Baju,  95 
Baillon,  324 
Bainville,  375 
Balkis,  331  / 

Balzac,  9,  16,  28,  40,  310 
Banville,  6,  17,  26,  27,  102,  284 
Barbey  d’Aurevilly,  52-55,  60 
Barbusse,  305,  306,  309 
Bardoux,  373 
Barine,  373 

Barrfes,  14,  62-67,  144,  159,  162-167,  171, 
173,  175,  289,  305,  365 
Barzun,  244 
Bataille,  277,  278,  280 
Battifol  (Mgr.),  201 

Baudelaire,  3,  7,  8,  9,  16,  19,  21,  53,  55, 
60,  94,  95,  97,  112,  118,  119,  130,  133, 
208,  209,  267,  269,  291,  344,  371,  375 
Baudrillart,  375 
Bazaillas,  376 
Bazalgette,  140 
Bazin,  321 
Beaunier,  328 

Becque,  50,  51,  88,  91,  276,  279,  281 


Bedier,  375 
Bellaigue,  372 
Benda,  342,  343 
Benjamin,  305 
Benoit,  297 
Berger,  309 
Bergerat,  27 

Bergson,  200,  201-204,  207,  340,  341,  343, 
376 

Berrichon,  102 
Bernard  (C.),  12,  376 
Bernard  (J.-M.),  213 
Bernard  (T.),  282,  283 
Bernstein,  278,  279 
Bersier,  374 
Berthelot,  376 
Bertrand  (Ad.),  309 
Bertrand  (Al.),  231. 

Bertrand  (L.),  301 

Besnard,  285 

Besson,  372 

Bever  (Van),  110,  371 

Bidou,  371 

Billy,  371 

Binet,  376 

Binet-V aimer,  328,  329 
Bisson,  284 
Bloch,  348-349 
Bloy,  319-321,  375 
Blum,  371 
Boisnard,  331 
Boissier,  375 
Boissiere,  299 
Bonald,  160 
Bonnefon  (de),  375 
Bordeaux,  321 
Bornier  (de),  27 
Boschot,  372 
Bouchor,  27 
Bouhelier,  282 
Bouilhet,  39 
Boulenger  (J.),  371 
Boulenger  (M.),  216 
Bourdon,  282 
Bourges,  302 

Bourget,  12,  14,  53-55,  60-62,  160-162, 
164,  180,  282,  336,  337 
Boutmy,  375 
Boutroux,  376 
Bovary,  11 
Boylesve,  321 
Br^mond  (Abbe),  375 
Breton,  233 


398 

Brieux,  51,  89 
Brilliant,  316 
Bruand,  236 
Brunetiere,  53,  160,  370 
Brunschvieg,  376 
Burnat-Provins  (Mme.),  216 

Caillavet  (de),  283 
Calvocoressi,  372 
Camo,  215 

Capus,  88,  89-90,  277 
Carco,  225 
Cazalis,  26 
Cazamian,  373 
Cazin,  311 
Ceard,  34 
Cendrars,  253 
Chadourne,  297 
Chaine,  310 
Chantavoine,  372 
Charasson  (Mile.),  216 
Chardonne,  355 

Chateaubriand,  12,  56,  66,  71,  109 
Chateaubriant,  323 
Chatrian,  76 
Chauffier  (L.-M.),  371 
Chenier,  18 
Chenneviere,  244,  251 
Cherbuliez,  74 
Ch6reau,  311 
Chevalley,  373 
Chevrillon,  373 
Chuquet,  375 
Cladel,  26,  76 
Claretie,  375 
Claudel,  109,  110,  208,  252-260,  265,  285, 
286,  300 

Clemenceau,  203,  374 
Clermont  (E.),  326 
Clouard,  213 
Cocteau,  235,  312 
Coeuroy,  372 
Codet,  322 
Colette,  333-335 
Combette,  299 
Comte,  12,  13,  160 
Constant,  64,  86 
Coolus,  279 

Coppee,  17,  18,  19,  20,  22,  27,  49,  74. 
91,  160,  173 

Corbiere,  94,  96,  97,  98 
Couet,  214 
Cournot,  376 

Courteline,  51,  90,  91,  284 
Cousturier,  331 
Croisset  (de),  279 
Crommelynck,  284 
Cros,  125 

Curel  (de),  51,  80-84,  271-273 

Daguerches,  298  • 

Dalby,  242 

Daudet  (A.),  32-34,  50 


INDEX 

Daudet  (Mme.  A.),  375 

Daudet  (E.),  375 

Daudet  (L.),  159,  318-319,  375 

Debussy,  77,  286,  344,  372 

Delahaye,  102,  110 

Delarue-Mardrus,  217,  330 

Delbousquet,  215 

Delluc,  236 

Denis,  372 

Dereme,  224 

Derennes,  215,  323 

Dermee,  235 

D'droulfede,  21 

Descaves,  276,  314,  315 

Deschamps,  95 

Desmeth,  324 

De  Souza,  370 

Despax,  220 

Deubel,  209 

D6vigne,  236 

Diderot,  49 

Didon  (P.),  374 

Dierx,  17,  22,  23 

Doff,  332 

Donnay,  87,  88,  283 
Dorgeles,  308 
Doumic,  370 
Drieu-La-Rochelle,  241 
Droin,  214 
Drouot,  213 
Drumont,  374 
Dubech,  214 
Du  Bellay,  18 
Ducasse,  98 
Duchene,  302 

Duhamel,  102,  208,  216,  222,  229,  242- 
244,  248,  285,  307,  308 
Dujardin,  210 

Dumas  (fils),  49,  50,  51,  88,  276 
Dumas  (pfere),  3 
Dumur,  309 
Durkheim,  376 
Durtain,  244 
Duvernois,  329 

Eberhardt,  332 
Eekhoud,  324 
Elder,  323 
Elskamp,  136 
Ennery,  50 
Erekmann,  76 
Esme  (d’),  298 
Esparbes  (d’),  304 
Estauni6,  325,  326 

Fabre  (E.),  89,  281 
Fabre  (F.),  76 
Fabre  (H.-J.),  323 
Fabri,  236 
Faguet,  84,  370,  313 
Fagus,  210 
Fallens,  284 
Faramond,  285 


INDEX 


399 


Fargue,  222,  223,  253 
Farrere,  296,  297 
Fa.uchois,  285 
Faure,  324,  347,  348,  371 
Ferrand,  160 
Feuillet,  55,  74 
Feydeau,  284 
Fischer,  316 
Flammarion,  25 

Flaubert,  3,  10,  11,  13,  16,  28,  40,  53, 
301,  310,  337,  375 
Fleg,  239 
Flers  (de),  283 
Foch  (Mar.),  373 
Fosca,  372 
Fontainas,  136,  371 
Fort,  210-213,  243 
Fouillee,  76,  376 
Fourest,  224 
Fournier,  311 
Fourson,  284 

France,  67-71,  156,  173-179,  183,  287, 
343 

Franck,  236,  237,  238,  239,  246 

Franc-Nohain,  223 

Frapie,  311 

Frappa,  309 

Fromentin,  75,  372 

Funck-Brentano,  375 

Fustel  de  Coulanges,  374 


Gabory,  215 

Galmot,  297 

Galtier-Boissi&re,  310 

Gambetta,  374 

Gasquet,  214 

Gaudy,  310 

Gauguin,  375 

Gaultier  (de),  158 

Gautier  (J.),  331 

Gautier  (T.),  3,  6,  7,  17,  102,  371 

Gauvain,  375 

Gavault,  279 

Geniaux,  328 

Geoffroy,  310,  372 

Geraldy,  215,  216,  309 

G6rard,  285 

Gh6on,  286 


Ghil,  136 

Gide,  158,  285,  331,  343,  354,  359-369 
Gisrnoux,  317 
Gilbert,  279 

Giraudoux,  234,  329,  330,  359 
Glatigny,  17,  26 
Gleizes,  372 

Gobineau,  337,  338,  339 
Gogh  (Van),  375 

Goncourt  (E.  and  J.  de),  28-32,  38,  45, 
46,  47,  50,  55,  136,  159,  280,  310,  375 
Gorce  (de  la),  375 
Gourmont  (J.  de),  289 
Gourmont  (R.  de-)  95,  96,  98,  99,  110, 
118,  128,  147,  153-157 


Goyau,  375 
Graux,  327 
Gregh,  146 
Grelou,  62 
Guerin,  147 
Guiches,  279 
Guinon,  279 
Guitry,  283 
Guyau,  77,  376 
Gyp,  316 

Halevy  (L.),  49,  282 

Hal6vy  (D.),  170,  197,  199 

Hamp,  349-350 

Harry,  331 

Havet,  373 

Heller,  331 

H6mon,  299 

Hennique,  34 

Henriot,  328 

Heredia  (de),  17,  18,  130,  132,  147 

Hermant,  279,  317 

Herold,  136 

Herv6,  180 

Hervieu,  88,  89 

Hirsch,  316 

Honotaux,  375 

Houssaye  (A.),  375 

Houssaye  (H.),  375 

Houville  (d’),  219,  330 

Hovelacque,  373 

Hugo,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  18,  21,  103,  137, 
201 

Huret,  52,  95 

Huysmans,  34,  42-45,  55,  96,  114,  116, 
125,  159-160,  281 
Hyacinthe  (P.),  374 
Hytier,  241,  374 

Indy  (d’),  372 

Jacob,  227,  230,  231,  240 
Jaloux,  327 

Jammes,  133,  134,  147,  209,  212-213,  217, 
220 

Janvier  (P.),  374 
Jarry,  147 

Jaurfes,  179-183,  198,  203,  341,  371,  374 

Johannet,  202,  204 

Josipovici,  302 

Joubert,  95 

Jouve,  244,  252 

Jouvenel  (de),  374 

Julian,  374 

Kahn  (G.),  94,  95,  101,  127,  128,  159, 
209,  371 
Kahn  (Z.),  374 
Kistemaeckers,  279 
Klingsor,  221,  371 

Lachelier,  376 
Lacretelle,  312 
Lafon,  311 


INDEX 


400 

Laforgue,  95,  96,  99-101,  129,  209,  215 

La  Fouchardlere,  317 

Lahor,  17,  26 

La  Jeunesse,  371 

Lalo,  372 

Laloy,  372 

Lamartine,  3,  6,  53 

Landormy,  372 

Lanson,  370 

Lantoine,  215 

Larbaud,  355-358 

Larguier,  220 

Lasserre,  371 

Lautremont,  98,  99 

Lavedan,  88,  89,  276 

Lavignac,  372 

Lavisse,  374 

Lazare,  203 

Leautaud,  371 

Leblanc,  297 

Le  Bon,  245 

Leblond,  302 

Le  Braz,  322 

Le  Cardonnel,  145 

Leconte,  146 

Leconte  de  Lisle,  3,  5-8,  11,  16-18,  20-22, 
53,  111,  201 
Lefebvre,  241,  309 
Lefrance,  373 
Le  Goffic,  322 

Lemaitre,  22,  74,  87,  160,  173,  180,  283, 
287-288,  370 
Lemonnier,  324 
Leneru,  273 
Lenormand,  275,  276 
Lepelletier,  111 
Le  Play,  460 
Lerberghe  (Van),  136 
Leroux,  297 
Le  Roy  (Ed.),  376 
Le  Roy  (Eng.),  76 
Le  Roy  (G.),  136 
Lesueur,  331 
Level,  309 
Levet,  224 
Levy-Briihl,  245,  376 
L’Herbier,  236 
Lhote,  228,  372 
Liard,  376 

Lichtenberger  (A.),  311 
Lichtenberger  (H.),  373 
Littr6,  12 
Loisy,  373 
Lombard,  302 
Lorrain,  135 
Loti,  71-74 
Lotte,  197 

Louys,  210,  293,  294,  296 
Loyson,  282 
Luchaire,  375  ** 

Lugne-Poc,  80 

Machard  (A.),  311 


MacOrlan,  298 
Madelin,  375 

Maeterlinck,  147,  148-150,  192-196,  236, 
285 

Magre,  216,  285 
Maindron,  303 
Maistre  (de),  161 
Male,  372 

Malherbe,  144,  208,  214,  267,  309 
Mallarme,  17,  45,  94,  95,  102,  118-127, 
129-132,  158,  208,  209,  233,  234,  263, 
267,  364,  372 
Manuel,  26 
Mar  an,  310 
Marcel,  275 
Margueritte,  310,  311 
Marinetti,  233 
Maritain,  371 
Martineau,  227 
Martin  du  Gard,  316 
Marx,  332 
Maspero,  374 
Masson,  375 
Maublano,  241 
Mauclair,  136,  371 

Maupassant,  16,  34,  38-42,  45,  50, 

52 

Mauriac,  326,  327 
Maurice,  214 
Maurois,  310 

Maurras,  12,  81,  143,  159,  167-172,  213, 
217,  365 
Mazaud,  284 
Meilhac,  49,  283 
Menard,  146 

Mendes  (C.),  17,  21,  22,  27,  104 

Mendhs  (Mme.  J.-C.),  216 

Mercereau,  236,  244 

Mercier,  215 

Mere,  282 

Merimce,  3,  9 

Merrill,  135 

Metzinger,  227 

Meyer,  375 

Mezihre,  373 

Michel,  365,  372 

Michelet,  15,  33 

Mikhael,  135 

Mille,  294,  295 

Miller  and,  197,  203 

Milosz,  253 

Miomandre  (de),  295 

Mirande,  285 

Mirbeau,  147,  280,  281 

Mockel,  136 

Monod,  374 

Monsabr6  (R.-P.),  374 
Montesquiou,  16,  145 
Montfort,  302 
Montherlant  (de),  312,  313 
Morand,  240,  241,  298,  358 
Moreas,  94-96,  142-145,  147,  171,  213 
267,  284 


INDEX 


Moreau,  11,  136 
Morice,  370 
Mortier,  284 
Mosca,  11 
Moselly,  323 
Muhlfeld,  316 
Muller,  224 
Mun  (de),  83,  374 
Muselli,  223 
Musset,  6,  21,  24,  60 

Natanson,  281 
Nepoty,  279 
Nerval  (de),  8 
Noailles  (de),  217-220,  330 
Nolhac,  373 

Obey,  327 
Ohnet,  74 
Ollivier,  375 

Pailleron,  49 
Paris,  375 
Pasteur,  376 
Paulhan,  358,  359 

Peguy,  172,  185,  197-207,  203,  304,  305, 
342,  361 

Peladan,  302,  333,  371 
Pellerin,  224,  226 
Pergaud,  209,  332 
Perochon,  323 
Pesquidoux  (de),  323 
Philippe,  254,  345-347,  375 
Picard,  285 
Pierrefeu  (de),  374 
Piot,  323 
Pirro,  372 
Plessys  (du),  143 
Poincare  (H.),  376 
Poizat,  284 
Ponchon,  223 
Porche,  216,  285 
Portail,  242 

Porto-Riche  (de),  84-87,  275 
Pouivillon,  76 
Pousot,  324 
Prevost,  75 
Proust,  351-355,  358 
Prudhomme,  75,  371,  372 
Psichari,  304,  305 
Puget,  241 

Quillard,  135 

Raehilde,  333 
Radiguet,  312 
Ramuz,  325 
Rappoport,  182 
Rauh,  376 
Ravaisson,  376 
Ravel,  48 
Raynal,  275 
Raynaud,  95,  135,  143 


401 

Reboux,  224,  309 

Regnier  (de),  18,  94,  130-133,  142,  159, 
209,  219,  291,  292 

Renan,  3,  12-16,  52,  53,  56,  159,  287 

Renard,  45-49,  50 

Renouvier,  376 

Rette,  135 

Reval,  331 

Rha'is,  331 

Ribot,  376 

Richepin  (Jean),  21,  22,  27,  97 
Rictus,  236 

Rimbaud,  94-96,  101-110,  112,  117,  158, 
209,  233,  249,  253 

Riviere,  102,  105,  108,  109,  363,  371 

Rivoire,  285 

Robert,  374 

Rochfort,  374 

Rod,  77 

Rodenbach,  136,  137,  220 
Roinard,  135 
Rolland,  183-190,  372 
Rollinat,  27 

Romains,  208,  241-253,  285 
Ronsard,  18,  144 
Rosny,  303,  324 

Rostand  (E.),  27,  91-93,  157,  216,  284 

Rostand  (M.),  285 

Roupnell,  323 

Rousseau,  16 

Royere,  209 

Ryner,  290,  291 

Saint-Beuve,  3,  8,  370 
Saint-Leger-Leger,  253 
Saint-Pol-Roux,  135 
Saint-Saens,  372 
Salmon,  227,  228,  231,  232,  371 
Salome,  220 

Samain,  137-139,  209,  220 
Sand,  74,  75 
Sarcey,  271,  370 
Sardou,  49,  276 
Sarment,  280 
Sauvebois,  371 
Savignon,  323 
Schlumberger,  283 
Schneider,  274 
Schure,  375 

Schwob,  151-153,  287,  297 
Seailles,  376 
Secretan,  77 
See,  275 

Segalen,  299,  300 
Seilliere,  373 
Sembat,  372,  374 
Sertillanges  (Abbe),  375 
Severin,  145 
Severine,  332 
Seylor,  316 
Siarnoret,  135 
Silvestre,  17,  26 
Sintral,  312 


INDEX 


402 

Sixte,  62 

Sizeranne  (de  la),  372 
Sorel  (A.),  374 
Sorel  (G.),  79,  341-343 
Sorel  (J.),  H,  52 
Souchon,  146 
Souday,  371 
Soulary,  26 
Soupault,  241 
Spiess,  223 
Spire,  237-239 
Stendhal,  9,  11,  16,  52,  60,  287,  336-340 
Suares,  343,  344 
Sully-Prudhomme,  17,  22-26 

Tailhade,  135 
Tailhede  (de  la),  143,  145 
Taine,  3,  9,  12-16,  40,  41,  52,  53,  60,  62, 
159,  160,  180,  337 
Tannery  (J.),  376 
Tannery  (P.),  376 
Tarde  (A.  de),  664 
Tarde  (G.),  245 
Tery,  374 
Texte,  373 
Tharaud,  288,  289 
Therive,  371 
Theuriet,  26,  76 
Thibaudet,  124,  371 
Thierry,  311 
Thureau-Dangin,  375 
Tinayre,  330 
Toulet,  226,  227 
Trarieux,  282 

Vaillant-Coutourier,  309 
V alery,  118,  127,  152,  158,  208,  214,  233, 
261-270,  372 
Vallery-Itadot,  375 
Valles,  33,  77,  78 
Vallotton,  325 


Valois,  342,  345 
Vandal,  375 
V ariot,  322 
Vaudoyer,  214 
Veber,  279 
Venderem,  279,  371 
Verane,  215 

Verhaeren,  131,  136,  139-141,  190,  191, 
209,  214,  252,  284 

Verlaine,  17,  45,  94,  96,  104,  109-118,  129, 
130,  209 
Verne,  76,  304 
Vicaire,  27 

Viele-Griffin,  94,  128-131,  209,  285 
Vignes  Rouges  (des),  309 
Vigny,  6,  22,  127 
Vildrac,  242,  243,  244 
Villetard,  323 

Villiers  de  l’lsle-Adam,  17,  55-60,  94,  95, 
125,  153,  287 
Vioux,  331 
Visan  (de),  371 
Vivien,  216-217 
Vogue  (de),  77,  373 
Voisins  (de),  327 
Vollard,  372 
Vuillermoz,  372 


Wagner  (Ch.),  373 
Waldeck-Rousseau,  165 
Werth,  318,  319,  371 
Wilde,  147 
Willy,  372 
Wolff,  279 
Wyzewa  (de),  373 


Zamacoi's,  285 
Zevafes,  203 

Zola,  11,  20,  34-38,  44,  45,  50,  52,  53, 
55,  157,  173,  306,  310 


Other 

BORZOI  BOOKS 

dealing  with 

MODERN  EUROPEAN  LITERATURE 

are  described  on  the  next  page 


CONTEMPORARY  FRENCH  LITERATURE  is  one  of  a 
series  of  books  intended  for  the  American  reader  interested  in 
European  literature  of  the  last  fifty  years.  It  is  hoped  ulti¬ 
mately  to  issue  more  or  less  similar  volumes  dealing  with  the 
literatures  of  other  countries  from  1870  on.  Thus  there  has 
already  been  published: — 

ITALIAN  SILHOUETTES 
by  Ruth  Shepard  Phelps 

With  an  introduction  by  Professor  Ernest  H.  Wilkins  of  the 
University  of  Chicago. 

Vivid  and  informing  essays  on  modern  Italian  literature,  on 
Papini,  Panzini,  Pirandello,  Pascoli,  Serra,  Sibilla  Aleramo, 
Annie  Vivanti  and  others.  The  discussions  are  enriched  by 
numerous  references  to  and  comparisons  with  English  and 
American  writers  of  the  same  period.  $2.50. 

And  there  will  appear  early  in  1925 
CONTEMPORARY  SPANISH  LITERATURE 
by  Aubrey  Bell 

American  interest  in  recent  Spanish  literature  is  particularly 
keen.  There  is  no  book  in  English  that  pretends  to  cover  the 
field  of  Mr.  Bell,  an  Englishman  who  has  lived  long  in  the 
Iberian  peninsula  and  published  many  valuable  books  on 
Spain  and  Portugal.  Some  of  the  chapters  are:  Valera  and 
the  Classical  Idealist  Novel,  The  Lyrical  Novel:  Valle-Inclan, 
Ramon  Perez  de  Ayala  and  the  Psychological  Novel,  The 
Forerunners  of  Modernism  and  The  Drama  and  Social 
Problems. 

And  later  in  1925  a  work  of  similar  scope 
CONTEMPORARY  RUSSIAN  LITERATURE 
by  Prince  D.  S.  Mirsky 


ALFRED  A.  KNOPF,  730  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York 


I 


) 


r 


( 


s 


* 


Date  Due 


JAN  1 6  *Bg 

AP  1  9  ’57 

®PD  If  , 

MY1  9  'f?7 

QC1  1  i  62 . 

JE5  ’67 

IP 

>h=sf.ee 

«*F 

MR  9  '64 

MR  2  5  '641 

-  jt 

IP  1  '&i 

AP  3  0’6S 

2  0  “S4 

NOl  9 '54 

'ap1AM 

MY  1  1  ob 

AP  S  W 

r 

MY  1  K  'RR 

JE  T% 

K0  5  '6R 

NO  19  ’66 

© 

PRINTED 

IN  U.  S.  A. 

